riass    TX 
Book 


CopiglrtN?. 


COPYRIGHT  DEPOSIT 


CULINARY  LCHOLS 
FROM  DIXIE 


KATE  BREW  VAUGHN 

*4 


THE  Mcdonald  press 

PUBLISHERS 

CINCINNATI 


■V35 


Copyright  1914 

BY 

Kate  Brew  Vaughn 


OCT  14  1914 

©CU380870 


To 

Mattie  Cornelius  Hall 

whose  helpfulness  and  lovi?ig  trust  have  inspired 
me  to  my  best  efforts 

This  Book  is  Lovingly  Dedicated 


Kate   Brew    Vaughn 


PREFACE 

This  book  of  Southern  recipes  and  many  contributed 
by  friends  in  other  sections  of  the  country,  is  designed 
to  meet  the  demand  of  numberless  friends  whom  it 
has  been  my  good  fortune  and  pleasure  to  teach 
during  my  tours  through  the  United  States. 

It  has  been  a  great  pleasure  and  gratification  to  me 
to  see  the  growth  of  interest  in  cookery  and  house- 
hold efficiency.  Fifty  years  ago,  women  of  refinement 
were  prone  to  declare  almost  boastingly  that  they 
had  never  cooked  a  meal  in  their  lives,  and  today 
we  note  with  interest  their  granddaughters  cooking 
wholesome  meals  without  becoming  degraded  in 
the  work. 

These  recipes  have  been  tested  and  changed  to  meet 
the  modern  necessity  for  economy. 

I  desire  to  thank  the  many  housewives  all  over  the 
country  for  the  kindness  and  encouragement  that 
have  spurred  me  on  to  launching  in  the  world  my 
'  *mid-channer '  effort. 

Kate  Brew  Vaughn 


Price  $1.00 
By   Mail,    Postpaid,    $1.15 


CONTENTS 


CHAPTER  PAGE 

II.     Living  on  the  Budget  Plan 4 

III.  Kitchen  Conveniences - ~ - 6 

IV.  Soups ~ - -..-.- - 9 

V.     Fish - - - - 18 

VI.     Sauces ~ 31 

VII.     Meats - ~ - 38 

VIII.     Poultry  and  Game- - - — 54 

IX.     Eggs - 67 

X.     Salads-.- - ™     74 

XL      Cheese  -..- - 93 

XII.     Rice - - -- 100 

XIII.  Deep  Fat  Frying - - - 104 

XIV.  Bread - - 115 

XV.     Pastry - _ 139 

XVI.      Cakes  and  Gingerbread _ 150 

XVII.     Vegetables _ _ _ 160 

XVIII.     Sandwiches  and  Rarebits — - 180 

XIX.     Cakes _ _ - - 191 

XX.     Icings  and  Fillings 209 

r  Puddings — 215 

'  1  Sauces 222 

XXII.     Desserts 226 

XXIII.  Beverages 241 

XXIV.  Cocktails,  Canapes  and  Cheese  Relishes  - 245 

XXV.     Condiments 248 

XXVI.     Candies  — . 261 


TABLE  OF  ABBREVIATIONS 

t. — teaspoon.  qt. — quart  or  4  cups, 

tb. — tablespoon.  pt. — pint  or  2  cups. 

c. — cupful.  oz. — ounce, 

h. — hour.  lb. — pound. 

Accurate  measurements  are  necessary  to  uniform  success 
in  cookery.  Standard  measuring  cups  hold  one-half  pint. 
All  measurements  should  be  heaped  up  and  leveled  off  with 
knife  or  spatula.  All  dry  ingredients  should  be  sifted  before 
measured  and  put  in  lightly,  never  packed.  One-half  spoon 
is  measured  by  cutting  lengthwise  a  spoon,  and  for  one-fourth 
dividing  that  again. 

3  t.=l  tb.  4  c.=l  qt. 

4  tb.=>^  c.  2  c.  sugar=l  lb. 

8  oz.=l  c.  2  c.  butter  or  crisco=l  lb. 

2  gills=l  c.  4  c.  flour=l  lb. 

2  c.=l  pt.  3  c.  meal=l  lb. 


CHAPTER  I 

FOOD 

Anything  taken  into  the  body  to  repair  waste,  build  mus- 
cle and  tissue,  or  give  heat  and  energy  for  the  performance  of 
functions  of  the  body,  may  be  called  food.  Food  is  taken  raw 
and  cooked,  and  cookery  is  simply  the  application  of  heat  to 
kill  bacteria,  add  flavor,  and  aid  digestion.  In  applying  heat, 
it  is  necessary  to  know  just  what  changes  are  necessary  to 
perfect  the  special  food  to  the  individual  needs. 

The  body  is  composed  of  about  16  different  elements,  as 
oxygen  62>^%,  hydrogen  10%,  carbon  21>^%,  nitrogen  3%. 
Sulphur,  silicon,  iron,  sodium,  calcium,  phosphorus,  potassium, 
magnesia,  fluorine,  chlorine  and  iodine  make  up  the  remaining 
3%,  and  these  are  combined  in  an  aggregation  of  cells,  tissues, 
organs,  muscle,  blood  and  bone.  The  cells  and  tissues  are 
being  constantly  worn  out  and  new  ones  are  built  up  to  repair 
this  waste  out  of  food  we  eat.  Food  is  made  over  in  the  body 
to  form  bone,  nerve  and  blood,  muscle  and  tissue. 

We  divide  food  according  to  its  function  in  the  body;  viz., 
proteins,  carbohydrates,  fats.  Foods  burn  in  the  body  by  pro- 
cess of  oxidation.  Proteins  contain  carbon,  oxygen,  hydrogen, 
nitrogen,  and  sulphur;  and  we  find  these  elements  in  meat, 
fish,  eggs,  milk,  cheese,  cereals,  beans,  peas,  and  lentils;  and 
we  find  that  proteins,  water,  and  mineral  matter  build  tissue 
and  muscle  and  liberate  heat  and  energy. 

Carbohydrates  in  form  of  sugars  and  starches  yield  heat 
and  energy,  but  add  little  to  the  body  weight.  Carbohydrates 
contain  oxygen,  carbon  and  hydrogen,  and  these  are  found  in 
maple,  cane  and  beet  sugar,  honey,  molasses  and  preserves, 
starch  in  potatoes,  cereals,  rice  pastes  and  vegetables. 

Fats  contain  carbon,  hydrogen  and  oxygen,  and  when 
burned  in  the  body  liberate  heat  and  energy;  this  when  not 
utilized  in  muscular  exercise  is  stored  in  the  body  as  adipose 
tissue.     Nuts,  oils,  cream  and  butter  produce  fat. 

Complete  food  must  contain  in  right  proportions  all  the 
elements  of  which  the  tissues  and  all  the  fluids  of  the  body 
are  composed.  Every  element  represented  has  a  special  need 
in  the  body  and  a  deficiency  of  any  one  will  cause  an  impair- 
ment. 


Food 

The  foods  are  taken  in  the  form  of  compounds;  for  instance, 
albumen  is  composed  of  carbon,  hydrogen,  oxygen,  nitrogen, 
sulphur,  phosphorus — and  albumen  enters  into  the  structure 
of  brain,  nerves,  muscles  and  blood.  Fat,  composed  of 
oxygen,  hydrogen  and  carbon,  is  found  all  over  the  body, 
covering  the  muscles,  surrounding  the  internal  organs. 

Sugar,  composed  of  carbon,  hydrogen  and  oxygen,  is  found 
in  the  blood,  liver  and  tissues.  Lime,  composed  of  calcium 
and  oxygen,  is  found  in  the  bone,  blood  and  nerve.  Salt,  com- 
posed of  sodium  and  chlorine,  is  found  in  the  tissues  and  fluids 
of  the  body.  Iron  is  found  in  the  haemoglobin  of  the  red 
blood  corpuscles. 

Food,  raw  or  cooked,  is  taken  into  the  body  through  the 
mouth  and  carried  into  the  stomach  and  intestines,  and  meets 
within  the  body  chemicals  which  convert  the  foods  eaten  into 
the  elements  required  by  the  body. 

The  well  balanced  menu  contains  the  elements  in  proper 
proportion  for  the  average  family,  and  the  housekeeper  must 
take  into  consideration  the  season  of  year,  exercise,  individual 
health,  predominating  sex,  etc.,  in  selecting  food.  The  hearty 
food  sufficient  for  a  farmer's  family  will  be  out  of  order  for 
the  family  of  a  banker,  not  because  the  banker  can  afford  more 
expensive  food,  but  because  on  account  of  environment, 
occupation,  etc.,  they  require  different  food. 

Properly  balanced  meals  will  maintain  a  person  in  perfect 
health,  provided  sunshine,  fresh  air  and  water  are  plentifully 
supplied,  and  waste  matter  properly  eliminated  from  the 
system. 

Meals  should  supply  all  the  body  needs  and  satisfy  hunger. 
They  should  be  attractive,  appetizing  and  planned  to  demand 
no  unusual  serving.  Cost  should  be  borne  in  mind  and  an 
average  maintained.  The  meal  consisting  of  a  few  well  pre- 
pared foods,  well  served,  is  worth  more  than  a  meal  of  many 
courses  badly  prepared  and  slovenly  served.  In  giving  menus 
we  can  only  speak  in  general  terms  and  the  suggestions  may 
be  used  to  prepare  menus  with  modifications  as  desired. 

BREAKFAST 

1.  Fruit,  fresh  preferably,  but  canned,  dried  or  concentrated  will  answer. 

2.  Cereal — oatmeal,  rice,  grits,  cream    of  wheat,  best — can   be  varied   by 

prepared  breakfast  foods  occasionally. 

3.  Protein  food  as  eggs,  fish,  meat.     Eggs  are  an  ideal  breakfast  dish,  and 

left-over  meat  can  be  utilized  as  hash. 

4.  Bread  in  some  form.     Toast,  biscuit,  griddle  cakes  or  waffles. 

5.  Beverage  for  stimulation,  cocoa,  coffee  or  tea, 

2 


Food 

LUNCH 

1.  Cream  soup. 

2.  Protein  food,  chops,  steak,  macaroni  and  cheese,  or  a  salad. 

3.  Potatoes,  rice  or  bread 

4.  Beverage:  tea,  cocoa  or  milk. 

DINNER 

1.  Clear  soup,  consomme  or  bouillon. 

2.  Meat  or  fish. 

3.  Potatoes  or  rice  and  one  other  vegetable. 

4.  Salad:  light  salad  with  heavy  dinner  and  more  substantial  where  meat 

course  is  light. 

5.  Dessert:  when  meat  course  is  heavy,  serve  very  light  dessert. 

6.  Tea  or  coffee. 

Many  people  find  two  meals  sufficient  for  body  needs,  but 
three  simple  meals  taken  at  regular  intervals  will  be  productive 
of  good  health  and  long  life.  Children  easily  digest  and  assim- 
ilate four  meals  a  day. 


CHAPTER  11 

LIVING  ON  THE  BUDGET  PLAN 

How  to  get  life  in  its  best  sense  out  of  our  present  income, 
is  one  of  the  questions  of  today,  and  has  transferred  the  center 
of  discussion  from  the  field  of  production  to  the  field  of  con- 
sumption, and  it  is  the  change  which  involves  a  revolution  in 
the  attitude  of  economics  to  the  functions  of  woman.  The 
factory  may  be  the  seat  of  production,  but  it  is  not  true  that 
only  there  are  foods  and  comforts  produced,  nor  is  it  strictly 
true  that  man  is  alone  the  producer.  The  home  produces 
wealth,  the  work  of  cook  and  nurse  and  chambermaid  is  pro- 
duction. The  food  is  worth  more  prepared  for  table  than  as 
brought  from  the  store,  etc.,  but  it  is  true  that  man,  on  a 
large  scale,  is  a  producer,  and  woman  defines  how  wealth  shall 
be  expended. 

Standard  of  living,  and  what  life  means  to  the  individual, 
determines  success.  Every  individual  has  his  standard  of 
decent  living,  good  work,  family  pride,  honesty,  pleasure,  etc., 
and  it  should  be  easy  for  each  to  define  just  what  sort  of  stand- 
ard we  have  set  for  ourselves.  Falling  below  this  standard, 
ethically  or  economically,  may  be  defined  as  unhappiness. 

Today  many  women  are  unhappy  because  they  are  dis- 
satisfied with  being  unequal  to  the  successful  administration 
of  homes.  If  the  dissatisfied  housewife  will  stop  and  take  an 
inventory  of  her  assets  and  liabilities  in  the  way  of  talents 
and  inability — revise  her  home  and  adjust  her  knowledge — 
each  will  find  some  way  to  happiness  and  content. 

Economy,  as  applied  to  the  home,  means  a  plan  for 
administration  by  which  the  resources  of  the  home  may  be 
expended  or  distributed  to  the  best  advantage.  It  means 
arranging,  proportioning,  or  expending,  the  family's  resources 
of  time,  strength,  knowledge,  and  money,  so  that  the  greatest 
possible  harvest  is  reaped. 

Whatever  the  conditions  of  a  family,  wherever  situated, 
it  is  a  fact  that  the  successful  spending  of  money  in  acquiring 
needs  and  wants,  depends  more  upon  the  brains  than  the 
dollars.  Poverty  and  riches  are  but  relative  terms.  Two  women 
may  be  given  S50.00  each,  and  with  this  one  can  buy  shelter 

4 


Living  on  the  Budget  Plan 

and  food,  while  the  other  one  will  so  adjust  hers  that  with  it 
she  buys  food,  shelter,  clothes  and  some  of  the  attributes  of 
higher  life,  and  so  she  is  richer  than  her  neighbor.  Standard 
of  living  will  control  as  to  how  expenditures  will  be  made. 

A  business  man  runs  his  factory  on  a  sound  business  basis, 
and  his  accounts  will  quickly  show  the  disbursement  of  his 
income,  and  what  percent  is  spent  for  operating,  advertising, 
etc.,  and  when  the  margin  of  profit  is  unsatisfactory,  a  study 
of  statistics  will  point  to  a  weak  place.  Disbursements  will 
be  properly  adjusted,  and  the  manufacturer  starts  out  with 
renewed  courage. 

This  is  just  the  sort  of  management  that  makes  the  house 
a  successful  business.  To  make  proper  divisions  of  income 
depends  so  largely  on  circumstances,  that  I  can  only  deal  with 
it  in  a  general  way. 

Division  of  Income 

Twenty-five  percent  for  food,  twenty  percent  for  rent, 
fifteen  percent  for  operating  expenses,  fifteen  percent  for 
clothes  and  twenty-five  percent  for  higher  life — education, 
benevolence,  entertainments,  and  savings.  If  it  varies  too 
greatly  in  any  division,  that  class  of  expenditure  should  be 
analyzed  so  as  to  find  the  trouble  and  remove  the  cause. 
Sometimes  the  divisions  will  be  improper. 

As  the  income  of  a  family  increases,  a  smaller  percentage 
will  be  expended  for  food. 

As  the  income  of  a  family  increases,  the  percentage  of 
expenditure  for  clothing  remains  approximately  the  same. 

As  the  income  of  a  family  increases,  the  percentage  for 
shelter  and  fuel  remains  the  same. 

As  the  income  increases,  a  constantly  increasing  percent- 
age will  be  spent  for  education,  health,  recreation,  which  we 
group  as  higher  life. 

We  find  the  retail  cost  of  foods  steadily  rising  and  it  has 
for  twenty  years.  Our  incomes  do  not  correspondingly  in- 
crease, and  with  this  steady  rise  on  the  one  side,  we  find  more 
and  more  of  this  fixed  amount  of  money  has  to  go  for  food, 
leaving  less  for  the  balance  of  expenses.  We  have  to  re- 
adjust the  expenditure  so  that  we  still  get  out  of  it  those 
things  which  mean  our  better  life,  and  still  save  for  the  day 
when  we  should  rest  from  our  labor. 

5 


CHAPTER  III 

KITCHEN  CONVENIENCES 

The  successful  business  man  has  the  proper  equipment  for 
factory,  store  and  office;  the  successful  farmer  has  up-to-date 
machinery  and  implements  for  accomplishing  results  with  a 
view  to  saving  time  and  labor.  The  dissatisfied  housekeeper 
is  usually  the  one  who  needs  must  spend  most  of  her  time  in 
accomplishing  her  kitchen  duties,  leaving  no  time  for  equally 
important  and  more  interesting  tasks. 

The  illogical  training  of  our  girls  in  the  past  has  made  the 
furnishing  of  the  kitchen  the  last  consideration  in  equipping  a 
home.  With  the  introduction  of  Home  Economics  in  our 
schools,  has  come  a  change,  and  today  the  housewife  has  all 
the  necessary  equipment  in  the  best  manner  her  means  afford 
and  gets  satisfaction  out  of  a  systematized  household. 

The  efficient  workman  has  his  shop  arranged  with  a  view 
of  saving  steps,  and  as  important  to  the  woman  is  a  study  of 
kitchen  arrangement,  relative  position  of  kitchen  machinery, 
viz.,  stove,  sink,  work  table,  cupboard  and  cabinet,  so  that  as 
little  walking  as  possible  will  be  necessary  in  preparation  of 
meals  or  cleaning  up  afterward. 

Ideal  kitchens  differ  with  architecture  of  house.  The  best 
kitchens  have  cupboards,  etc.,  built  in  so  that  much  floor  space 
is  saved.  Where  this  was  not  thought  of  ahead,  the  kitchen 
will  require  to  be  about  10  x  12.  A  large  sink  and  hot  and 
cold  water  faucets,  with  an  adjustable  draining  board,  that 
may  be  fastened  to  wall  when  not  in  use,  will  be  found  most 
convenient.  The  stove  is  probably  the  most  important  factor 
in  pleasure  of  kitchen  work.  There  is  never  any  economy  in 
buying  a  cheap  stove;  facility  of  heating  and  regulating  and 
ease  with  which  it  is  cleaned,  and  the  convenience  of  ovens  are 
the  things  to  consider.  Nickel  trimmings  and  gingerbread 
work  on  stoves  add  to  their  cost,  count  for  nothing  in  general 
utility  and  demand  much  care  to  keep  them  in  good  appear- 
ance. The  ovens  should  be  at  a  height  that  will  not  demand 
reaching  or  stooping. 

A  good  fireless  cooker  Is  an  economy  of  time  and  fuel. 
Cheaper  cuts  of  meat  foods  that  require  long  cooking  will  be 


Kitchen  Conveniences 

found  possible  without  constant  watching.  The  whole  meal 
may  be  prepared  in  the  cooker  while  the  housekeeper  sews  or 
reads. 

Things  to  Remember  in  Buying  Cooker. 

A  cheap  cooker  is  an  extravagance,  as  poor  results  tend  to 
dissatisfy  the  cook.  A  metal  body  cooker  will  assure  against 
fire.  Seamless  aluminum  wells  wear  longer  and  are  easily 
kept  clean.  I  use  a  thin  steel  radiator  manufactured  by  the 
Diller  Manufacturing  Company  of  BlufFton,  which  heats  most 
readily,  requiring  less  than  10  minutes  gas  flame  for  perfect 
roasting  heat  and  retaining  that  heat  the  desired  length  of 
time.  These  will  be  more  popular  than  soapstone  radiators, 
as  less  care  is  required  to  keep  them  in  good  condition.  An 
adjustable  valve  for  the  escape  of  surplus  steam  is  necessary  for 
good  baking.  When  not  in  use  leave  cooker  open  and  often  put 
the  radiators  in  strong  sunshine  to  air. 

The  work  table  should  be  strong  and  covered  with  some 
material  that  requires  no  great  energy  to  keep  clean.  White 
enameled  tables  cost  more  initially  but  pay  in  the  end.  The 
tin  or  zinc-top  table  is  excellent  and  in  case  it  is  necessary  to 
use  an  ordinary  oilcloth-covered  table,  linoleum  cut  to  fit  and 
securely  tacked  will  be  more  economical  and  more  satisfactory. 
Much  backache  may  be  attributed  to  the  height  of  a  work 
table,  and  a  little  care  given  to  this  particular  is  necessary. 
Strong  casters  adjusted  to  the  work  table  will  allow  it  to  be 
moved  according  to  desire.  When  well  planned  cupboards 
are  lacking,  the  kitchen  cabinet  will  be  found  indispensable. 
Here  there  is  a  place  for  everything  and  a  few  minutes  taken 
to  replace  utensils  in  their  respective  places,  assure  the  cook 
an  easy  task  in  preparing  the  next  meal. 

A  good  supply  of  utensils  is  necessary  and  there  is  no 
economy  in  cheap  utensils.  Aluminum  and  heavy  white 
enamel  are  in  the  long  run  very  satisfactory.  Seamless  mixing 
bowls  with  no  sharp  corners  for  holding  batters,  doughs,  etc., 
save  much  time  in  washing.  Steel  wool  and  Ivory  Soap  will 
be  found  the  best  cleansing  agencies  for  aluminum. 

Well  defined  menus  planned  for  the  day,  and  supplies 
ordered  early  in  the  morning,  thereby  insuring  a  prompt 
delivery,  mean  a  good  start.  When  entering  the  kitchen  the 
housewife  should  have  a  definite  knowledge  of  the  process 
involved  and  order  of  procedure.  The  first  step  should  be 
regarding  fire  if  coal  or  wood  is  used,  and  while  the  stove  is 


Kitchen  Conveniences 

heating  supplies  can  be  taken  out  and  placed  in  order.  'Cook 
according  to  schedule  for  each  dish,  so  that  there  will  be  no 
confusion  or  waiting  on  a  dish  for  any  course.  After  a  meal  is 
served  dishes  should  be  removed,  bits  of  food  and  articles  of 
grease  removed  with  soft  paper.  If  the  dishes  are  washed 
immediately,  the  dining  room  and  kitchen  put  to  rights,  much 
less  time  will  be  consumed  in  this  work. 

As  far  as  possible  work  by  schedule,  but  don't  worry  when 
something  unexpected  interferes  with  the  schedule.  Some 
too  conscientious  housekeepers  keep  busy  all  the  time,  doing 
many  unnecessary  things.  Decide  just  what  must  be  done  to 
make  the  family  comfortable,  and  prorate  the  duties  to 
the  members,  and  duties  that  may  be  eliminated  mean  just 
that  much  time  for  rest,  recreation  and  study  for  the  house- 
wife. This  is  most  important  and  on  it  depends  the  success- 
ful administration  of  the  home. 

RULES  FOR  KITCHEN  EFFICIENCY 

1.  Conveniently  arranged  kitchen. 

2.  Convenient  utensils  of  best  make. 

3.  Elimination  of  everything  unnecessary  or  decorative  in  kitchen. 

4.  Well  defined  menus,  and  supplies  ordered  in  time. 

5.  Preparation  for  meals — get  out  all  supplies  and  prepare  in  the  order  of 

their  serving  (length  of  time  for  cooking  taken  into  consideration). 

6.  Serving  meals  and  washing  dishes,  putting  to  rights  the  dining  room  and 

kitchen  without  delay. 

7.  Eliminate  every  unnecessary  duty. 

8.  Realization  of  importance  of  rest  and  improvement  as  an  incentive  for 

expedition  in  necessary  work. 


CHAPTER  IV 

SOUPS 

Soups  are  divided  into  two  classes:  soups  with  stock,  and 
soups  without  stock. 

Soups  made  with  stock  have  as  foundation  beef,  veal, 
mutton,  fish,  and  poultry,  and  are  classified  as: 

(1)  Bouillon,  lean  beef  seasoned  and  strained. 

(2)  Consomme,  with  several  different  kinds  of  meats,  highly- 
seasoned,  with  vegetables  and  spices,  and  strained. 

(3)  Soup  stock,  made  from  beef,  vegetables  and  spices. 

(4)  White  stock  soup,  made  from  chicken,  veal,  or  mutton, 
with  delicate  seasoning,  rice  or  macaroni. 

Cream  soups,  made  of  vegetables  and  white  sauce  com- 
bined with  milk  or  cream. 

Purees,  made  usually  from  vegetables  (fish  sometimes  used) 
forced  through  a  strainer  and  retained  in  milk  or  white  sauce. 

Bisques,  made  from  shellfish  seasoned  and  milk  or  cream 
added. 

Clear  soups  are  served  for  dinner,  where  they  act  as  stimu- 
lants and  expand  the  stomach  to  accommodate  the  full  dinner. 

Cream  soups  sometimes  separate,  and  paste  made  from 
butter  and  flour  is  added  to  boiling  stock  or  milk  and  is  called 
the  binder. 

Stock  for  Bouillon 

3  lbs.  lean  beef  (shin  bone)  2  c.  vegetables  cut  in  dice,  tur- 

\}4  qts.  cold  water  nip,  onion,  celery,  carrot  in 

6  cloves  equal  portions. 

1  bay  leaf  Salt  to  taste 

Few  sprigs  thyme 

Cut  meat  In  cubes,  break  bones.  Brown  Yz  meat  cubes  in 
frying  pan  with  marrow  and  fat.  Place  cubes  of  meat  in  soup 
kettle  with  cold  water  and  let  stand  ^  hour,  at  which  time 
add  browned  cubes  and  bring  gradually  to  boiling  point. 
Skim  often,  for  short  time.  Cover  and  cook  slowly  for  4 
hours,  simmering.  Add  vegetables  the  last  hour;  strain  and 
cool. 


Soups 


White  Stock 


2  lbs.  knuckle  veal  1  lb.  lean  beef  (shin  will  do) 

3  qts.  of  cold  water 

Cut  meat  In  cubes  and  break  bone,  cover  with  water,  allow 
to  stand  1  hour,  simmer  gently  for  4  hours.  Cut  two  stalks 
celery,  1  medium  sized  onion,  blade  of  mace,  teaspoon  salt, 
few  grains  allspice  and  let  cook  slowly  for  ^  hour,  add  to  the 
stock  and  boil  for  hour,  add  several  eggshells,  before  removing 
from  range.  Strain  through  double  thickness  cheesecloth 
and  cool. 

Consomme 

3  lbs.  beef  from  the  round  1  parsnip 

1  carrot  1  red  pepper 

1  turnip  1  tb.  whole  cloves 

1  onion  1  tb.  chopped  parsley 

Celery  (tough  outside  stalks  may  be  used) 

Cover  the  meat  with  3  quarts  water  and  let  simmer  for  4 
hours.     Add  the  other  ingredients  (scrape  the  carrot)  and  cook 

1  hour.  Strain  and  let  stand  over  night.  Skim  off  the  grease; 
clear,  strain  and  serve. 

Bouillon 

4  lbs.  lean  beef  from  the  middle      ^  c.  of  carrot,  turnip,  onion 

of  the  round  and  celery  cut  in  dice 

2  lbs.  bone  1  tb.  salt 
2  qts.  cold  water                                  4  cloves 

Wipe  and  cut  meat  and  bone  into  small  pieces;  add  the 
water  and  heat  slowly;  simmer  5  hours  over  a  low  flame;  add 
seasoning  and  vegetables  and  boil  1  hour.  Boil  down  to  3 
pints,  strain. 

To  Clear  Soup 

Remove  fat  from  stock  and  put  amount  to  be  cleared  in  a 
saucepan,  allowing  the  white  and  shell  of  1  egg  to  each  quart. 
Mix  egg  and  shell  with  the  cool  soup  stock,  adding  more 
seasoning  If  needed;  beat  well  and  set  on  stove  over  a  medium 
flame.     Stir  until  hot,  to  keep  egg  from  settling.     Let  it  boil 

2  minutes;  then  lower  the  flame  so  that  it  will  just  simmer  for 
10  minutes.  Remove  scum  and  strain  through  a  double 
thickness  of  cheesecloth  over  a  fine  wire  strainer.  The  albu- 
men in  egg  and  meat  draws  to  itself  the  juices  extracted  from 
the  meat  and  which  have  coagulated. 

10 


Soups 


Potato  Soup 


2  potatoes  (small)  1  tb.  butter 

1  pt.  milk  K  t.  celery  salt 

1  t.  chopped  onion  }4  tb.  flour 

^  t.  salt  1  stalk  celery 

^  ssp.  pepper 

Wash,  pare  and  soak  potatoes  in  cold  water;  put  them  in 
boiling  water  and  cook  until  very  soft;  drain  and  mash;  cook 
onion  and  celery  in  milk  in  double  boiler;  add  potatoes;  rub 
through  strainer  and  put  on  to  boil  again;  add  butter  and  flour 
rubbed  together;  season;  let  boil  5  minutes  and  serve.  If  too 
thick  add  hot  milk.  If  richer  soup  is  desired,  use  1  quart  milk 
and  add  2  beaten  eggs  after  taking  from  fire. 

Mock  Bisque  or  Tomato  Soup 

1  can  tomatoes  3  tb.  butter 
J4  t.  soda                                                4  tb.  flour 

2  t.  salt  1  qt.  milk 

^  t.  pepper 

Stew  tomatoes  until  soft  enough  to  strain;  heat  milk  in 
double  boiler;  rub  butter  and  flour  together;  add  to  hot  milk 
and  stir  until  smooth;  cook  10  minutes;  add  seasoning  and 
strained  tomatoes,  to  which  soda  has  been  added;  serve  at 
once.  The  soda  prevents  the  acid  in  the  tomatoes  from 
curdling  the  milk. 

Cream  of  Tomato  Soup 

J/2  can  tomatoes  1  qt.  milk 

1  small  tb.  sugar  1  slice  onion 

)4  t.  soda  4  tb.  flour 

J4  c.  butter  1  t.  salt 

1  t.  pepper 

Scald  milk  with  onion;  remove  onion  and  thicken  with 
flour  mixed  with  cold  water  until  smooth  enough  to  pour. 
Cook  20  minutes,  stirring  constantly  at  first.  Cook  tomatoes 
and  sugar  15  minutes;  add  soda  and  rub  through  a  strainer. 
Combine  mixtures  and  strain  into  a  heated  dish  over  butter, 
salt  and  pepper. 

Corn  Soup 

1  can  corn  2  tb.  butter 

1  pt.  cold  water  2  tb.  flour 

1  pt.  milk  1  t.  salt 

1  tb.  chopped  onion  Few  grains  pepper 

Chop  corn,  add  water,  heat,  cooking  slowly  20  minutes. 

11 


Soups 

Cook  the  onion  in  the  butter,  remove  from  the  fire  and  add 
flour.  When  thoroughly  mixed  add  scalded  milk  and  combine 
with  corn.  Rub  through  a  strainer  and  cook  5  minutes  longer. 

Asparagus  Soup 

1  can  asparagus  4  tb.  flour 

3  c.  milk  1  t.  salt 

3  tb.  butter  Pinch  pepper 

Open  can  of  asparagus,  reserve  1  cup  of  liquor  from  the 
can.  Cut  off  asparagus  tips  and  put  aside,  rub  stems  through 
a  sieve.  Heat  in  the  double  boiler  the  asparagus  liquor  and 
3  cupfuls  of  milk,  blend  thoroughly  3  tablespoonfuls  of  butter 
with  4  tablespoonfuls  of  sifted  flour,  and  stir  in  ^  cupful 
of  cold  milk.  Pour  heated  milk  gradually  on  blended  butter 
and  flour,  return  to  double  boiler  and  cook  15  minutes.  Add 
strained  asparagus  and  heat  again.  Season  with  l}4  teaspoon- 
fuls  Worcestershire  sauce  and  a  dash  of  white  pepper.  Lastly, 
add  the  asparagus  tips  and  serve. 

Cream  of  Celery  Soup 

3  c.  milk  2  tb.  butter 

1  qt.  celery  cut  in  pieces  1  slice  onion 

2  tb.  flour  1  blade  mace 

1  c.  cream 

Boil  celery  in  a  quart  of  water  45  minutes.  Boil  mace, 
onion  and  milk  together.  Mash  the  celery  in  the  water  and 
add  it  to  the  boiling  milk.  Melt  butter  in  a  saucepan;  add 
flour  slowly  until  it  thickens;  cook  3  or  4  minutes,  and  add  to 
boiling  soup.  This  method  of  thickening  soup  with  flour  and 
butter  cooked  together  is  called  binding  it.  Season  with  salt 
and  pepper.  Strain,  and  serve  immediately,  adding  1  cup  of 
whipped  cream  after  soup  is  in  the  tureen. 

Cream  of  Chicken  Soup 

Cook  2  cups  chicken  stock  with  J4  cup  chopped  celery  and 
onion  for  15  minutes.  Heat  in  double  boiler  2  cups  milk. 
Blend  thoroughly  6  tablespoons  butter,  with  4  teaspoons  flour 
and  stir  in  ^  cup  cold  milk.  Pour  heated  milk  gradually  on 
blended  butter  and  flour;  return  to  double  boiler;  add  stock, 
and  cook  15  minutes.  Season  with  1  teaspoon  salt  and  dash 
white  pepper.     Strain,  and  serve. 

12 


Soups 


Cream  of  Potato  Soup 


3  potatoes  1  tb.  salt 

2  c.  milk  Speck  of  white  pepper 

1  tb.  flour  1  tb.  finely  chopped  parsley 

1  tb.  butter  1  tb.  chopped  onion 

Cook  potatoes  until  soft;  heat  in  double  boiler  with  onion; 
drain  and  mash  potatoes;  add  boiling  milk  and  seasoning  to 
mashed  potatoes;  rub  all  through  strainer,  and  return  to 
double  boiler.  Bind  with  butter  and  flour  cooked  together, 
let  boil  5  minutes,  add  parsley,  and  serve. 

Bean  Soup 

1  pt.  dried  pea  beans  ^  lb.  salt  pork  cut  in  strips 

3  qts.  cold  water  ^  medium-size  onion  cut  fine 

Soak  beans  over  night  in  lukewarm  water.  In  the  morn- 
ing drain  and  put  in  kettle  with  the  cold  water,  salt  pork,  and 
onion.  Cook  over  a  low  flame  4  hours,  stirring  often.  Boil- 
ing water  may  be  added  at  intervals  if  necessary,  to  keep  soup 
of  right  consistency.     Season  with  salt  and  pepper. 

Pea  Soup 

1  c.  dried  split  peas  1  tb.  butter 

6  c.  water  1  tb.  flour 

}4  t.  sugar  Salt  and  pepper 

Soak  the  peas  over  night.  Drain,  and  put  them  on  to 
boil  in  the  cold  water  over  a  low  flame,  letting  them  simmer 
until  they  soften  and  dissolve.  Add  water  as  it  boils  away, 
to  keep  3  pints  of  liquid  in  the  kettle.  Scrape  from  sides  of 
kettle  when  necessary.  Rub  through  a  strainer  and  put  on 
to  boil  again.  Bind  with  butter  and  flour.  Add  salt  and  pepper; 
let  it  simmer  10  minutes,  and  serve. 

Chicken  Soup 

6  c.  of  the  stock  in  which  a  fowl       }4  bay  leaf 

has  been  boiled  }4  t.  peppercorns 

}/2  carrot  cut  in  dice  1^  c.  hot  boiled  rice 

1  sliced  onion  Salt 

2  stalks  celery  cut  fine 

Add  seasoning  to  stock,  heat  gradually  to  boiling  point, 
and  boil  }4  hour.  Strain,  and  add  rice.  A  tablespoon  of 
lean,  uncooked  ham  is  sometimes  added  to  the  seasoning. 
When  ham  is  used,  omit  salt. 

13 


Soups 


Oyster  Bisque 


Half  pint  celery  chopped  fine,  boil  slowly  in  1  pint  water 
}4  hour.  Half  pint  soup  oysters,  boil  briskly  10  minutes  in 
own  liquor,  then  chop  very  fine.  Add  to  celery  in  1  quart 
sweet  milk. 

Rub  2  tablespoons  butter  and  2  of  flour  together,  add  the 
above  mixture,  season  with  salt  and  white  pepper,  boil  20 
minutes.  Strain  or  run  through  ricer,  serve  with  whipped 
cream  in  cups. 

Oyster  Stew 

Put  on  in  double  boiler  3  pints  of  rich  milk  and  let  simmer 
until  it  reaches  boil;  add  2  tablespoons  of  butter,  rubbed 
with  1  teaspoon  flour;  add  to  boiling  milk  together  with 
pepper  and  salt  to  taste,  also  3  whole  allspice;  drain 
liquor  of  1  quart  of  oysters  into  milk;  let  simmer  for  5  minutes; 
add  the  whole  oysters  and  when  they  curl,  pour  soup  into 
tureen  in  which  1  cup  of  rich  cream  is  added. 

Bisque  of  Oysters 

Oysters  1  qt.  milk 

1  tb.  butter  1  tb.  flour 

1  t.  flour  J/2  t,  salt 

Dash  white  pepper  Dash  paprika 

1  t.  chopped  parsley 

Drain,  rinse  and  chop  the  oysters;  put  into  saucepan  and 
bring  to  boiling  point;  remove  the  scum.  Put  the  milk  in  top 
of  double  boiler;  add  the  salt,  pepper,  paprika  and  butter  and 
flour  rubbed  together;  boil  3  minutes,  add  parsley  and  oysters 
and  serve  at  once.  Do  not  add  the  oysters  until  ready  to 
serve. 

Clam  Bisque 

25  large  clams  In  shells  (alive)  2  tb.  allspice 

1  c.  milk  or  cream  2  tb.  flour 

2  tb.  butter  Yolk  of  1  egg 

Wash  clams  thoroughly;  put  in  kettle  with  1  pint  boiling 
water  and  cook  until  shells  open.  Remove  the  clams  and  sep- 
arate the  dark  part  from  the  soft  part  and  discard  it.  Chop 
clams  fine  and  add  them  to  the  water  in  which  they  were 
cooked.  Boil  until  thick  and  well  cooked;  then  add  allspice. 
Heat  the  milk.  When  ready  to  serve,  pour  'milk  into  clam 
broth;  add  the  well  beaten  egg  yolks  and  a  dash  of  red  pepper, 
and  strain, 

14 


Soups 


Crab  Soup 


4  c.  milk  1  doz.  crabs 

3  tb.  butter  1  tb.  grated  onions 
2  tb,  flour                                              1  t.  salt 

1  t.  minced  parsley  ^  t.  cayenne 

Pepper 

Cook  onion  and  butter  until  onion  is  tender,  add  flour,  salt 
and  pepper  and  rub  to  a  paste,  which  should  be  blended  with 
^2  cup  cold  milk.  Put  3^  cups  milk  in  kettle  and  allow  to 
reach  boiling  point,  add  the  minced  crabs  and  boil  in  double 
boiler  for  10  minutes.  Add  the  binder  (flour,  butter  and 
milk)  5  minutes  before  serving. 

Mushroom  Soup 

1  pt.  can  mushrooms  1  c.  chicken  stock 

4  tb.  butter  4  tb.  flour 
^  c.  milk  1  t.  salt 
Ys  t.  cayenne  1  c.  cream 

Open  can  of  mushrooms,  reserve  1  cup  liquor,  and  cut  up 
mushrooms  with  a  silver  knife.  Put  mushrooms  and  liquor 
in  double  boiler  with  chicken  stock  and  simmer  for  20  minutes. 
Blend  thoroughly  butter  with  flour  and  stir  in  milk.  Pour 
part  of  hot  stock  gradually  on  blended  oil  and  flour,  return  to 
double  boiler  and  cook  15  minutes.  Season  with  salt  and 
pepper.     Lastly,  stir  in  the  cream. 

Onion  Soup 

4  large  onions  2  c.  onion  liquor 

2}^  c.  milk  4  tb.  butter 

2  tb.  flour  1>^  t.  salt 
iV  t.  pepper  1  egg 

Peel  and  slice  onions.  Scald  and  drain.  Cover  with  cold 
water  and  simmer  till  soft.  Mash  through  a  coarse  sieve. 
Heat  again  the  liquor  and  milk.  Blend  thoroughly  butter 
with  flour  and  stir  in  ^4  cup  milk.  Pour  heated  milk  gradually 
on  blended  butter  and  flour;  return  to  double  boiler  and  cook 
15  minutes.  Season  with  salt  and  pepper.  Beat  1  egg,  and 
stir  in  quickly  when  ready  to  serve. 

Genuine  Yankee  Clam  Chowder 

Two  tablespoonfuls  crisco  put  in  kettle;  add  1  large  onion 
cut  very  thin;  saute  5  minutes;   1  quart  of  boiling  water;  2 

15 


Soups 

medium-size  potatoes  cut  in  cubes;  cook  until  potatoes  are  done; 
add  12  clams  chopped  fine  and  juice;  boil  5  minutes  slowly; 
add  2  teaspoonfuls  salt;  1  saltspoon  pepper;  thicken  with  3 
tablespoons  of  flour — moisten  with  water  to  smooth  paste. 
Serve  with  oysterettes,  cube  bread  or  croutons  if  preferred. 
If  a  more  delicate  chowder  is  wanted  take  out  1  cup  water, 
using  1  cup  milk  instead;  if  preferred  thickening  can  be  omitted. 

Sago  Soup 

Wash  3  ounces  of  sago  in  boiling  water  and  add  it  gradually 
to  2  quarts  of  nearly  boiling  stock,  with  seasoning  to  taste. 
Simmer  for  ^  hour,  when  it  should  be  well  dissolved.  Beat 
up  the  yolks  of  3  eggs,  add  them  to  ^  pint  of  milk  or  cream, 
stir  quickly  into  the  soup  and  serve  immediately.  Do  not 
let  the  soup  boil  after  the  eggs  are  put  into  it  or  it  will  curdle. 

Macaroni  Soup 

Three  pounds  of  beef  put  into  4  quarts  of  water,  with  1  large 
onion,  1  carrot,  1  turnip  and  a  head  of  celery  and  boiled  3  or  4 
hours  slowly.  Next  day  take  off  the  grease  and  pour  into  the 
soup  kettle,  season  to  taste  with  salt,  and  add  a  pint  of  maca- 
roni broken  into  small  pieces  and  2  tablespoonfuls  of  tomato 
catsup.  Half  to  ^  hour  will  be  long  enough  to  boil  the  second 
day. 

Shrimp  Gumbo 

1  can  shrimp  1  3-Ib.  can  okra 

1  onion  1  2-lb.  can  tomatoes 

1  slice  ham  1  tb.  crisco 

1  pod  garlic  25  drops  tabasco  sauce 

2  t.  salt  1  sprig  thyme 

Chop  very  fine  the  shrimp,  okra,  onion,  ham  and  garlic; 
mix  thoroughly,  get  pot  very  hot,  fry  the  mixture  in  the  crisco 
6  minutes  and  add  the  tomatoes  and  1  gallon  of  water;  boil 
slowly  about  2  hours,  serve  with  boiled  rice. 

Chicken  Gumbo  Soup  (New  Orleans) 

1  tender  chicken  cut  in  small  1  stick  cinnamon 

pieces  3  whole  cloves 

2  slices  of  ham  cut  small  ^2  can  tomatoes 
4  tb.  butter  2  qts.  water 

1  onion  1  qt.  oyster  liquor 

1  bay  leaf  12  oysters 

2  doz.  pods  okra 

Melt  butter  In  soup  kettle  and  when  hot  put  in  chicken 
and  ham  sprinkled  over  with  flour.     When  chicken  is  tender 

16 


Soups 

add  onion  and  spice  and  cover  and  cook  until  onions  are  done. 
Add  to  the  ingredients  the  water,  oyster  liquor  and  okra  cut 
in  thin  slices,  season  with  salt,  pepper  and  celery  salt  and 
simmer  for  l}4  to  2  hours.  Just  before  serving  add  tomatoes 
and  oysters,  stir  well  and  serve  with  steamed  rice.  The 
rice  should  be  prepared  separately,  placing  in  each  plate  large 
spoonful  of  rice  before  serving  the  soup. 


17 


CHAPTER  V 

FISH 

Fish,  with  the  exception  of  salmon,  mackerel,  and  eels,  will 
be  found  very  easily  digested,  giving  to  brain  workers  and 
those  of  sedentary  habits  proteins  in  easily  digested  forms,  and 
in  many  parts  of  our  country,  it  is  more  economical  than  meat. 
Fish  is  less  nutritious  and  stimulating  than  meat.  Fish  has 
often  been  called  brain  food,  not  because  it  contains  large 
portions  of  phosphorus,  an  element  found  abundantly  in  nerve 
tissue,  but  because  of  the  ease  with  which  it  is  digested. 

Boiling  and  baking  are  the  best  methods  to  employ  in 
cooking  fish.  Fish  if  lacking  in  fat  may  be  fried  or  boiled. 
Before  purchasing,  examine  the  fish.  The  eyes  and  gills 
should  be  bright  and  the  flesh  firm.  Fish  should  never  be 
put  in  a  refrigerator,  as  the  strong  odor  contaminates  delicate 
foods.  When  it  is  necessary  to  store  in  a  general  refrigerator, 
place  in  a  covered  pail. 

How  to  Bake  Fish 

Have  a  good-sized  whitefish  well  cleaned,  stuff  and  sew 
up  the  opening;  brush  over  with  butter  and  dredge  with  flour, 
sprinkle  with  salt  and  pepper,  place  around  the  fish  slices  of 
pork  and  lay  in  a  baking  pan  with  a  little  water.  Allow  IS 
minutes  to  the  pound  and  baste  frequently.  Serve  with  sauce 
and  garnish  with  lemon  and  parsley. 

How  to  Broil  Fish 

Always  have  a  tin  sheet  for  lifting  and  turning  broiled 
fish.  Before  broiling  rub  with  salt  and  pepper,  and  then 
grease  with  crisco.  Lay  the  fish  on  the  gridiron,  well  greased, 
and  lay  the  tin  sheet  over  it.  When  you  wish  to  turn,  take 
the  gridiron  from  the  fire,  holding  the  tin  sheet  on  the  fish. 
Hold  them  together,  then  lay  them  on  a  table  with  the  tin 
sheet  down  and  the  gridiron  uppermost.  Carefully  raise 
the  gridiron,  leaving  the  fish  lying  unbroken  on  the  tin  sheet. 
It  is  easy  now  to  slide  the  fish  back  on  the  gridiron,  put  it 
again  on  the  fire  and  brown  the  other  side,  putting  the  tin 
sheet  back  on  top  of  it.  When  done  lay  it  on  a  dish  and  pour 
over  it  melted  butter,  in  which  have  been  stirred  pepper,  salt 
and  minced  parsley, 

18 


Fish 

Fillet  of  Trout 

Wipe  each  piece  of  fish  with  a  damp  cloth,  then  coat  with 
beaten  eggs  (diluted  with  water)  and  seasoned  bread  crumbs. 
Place  in  frying  basket  and  cook  in  deep  crisco.  Slices  of  other 
fish  may  be  cooked  in  the  same  way  to  perfection. 

Fried  Halibut 

For  frying,  the  fish  should  be  a  little  over  J/2  inch  thick. 
Wash,  dry  well,  dip  first  in  flour  which  has  been  seasoned, 
then  in  egg,  and  then  in  bread  crumbs  or  cracker  dust,  which 
must  also  be  salted.  Fry  in  deep  hot  crisco  20  minutes.  This 
kind  of  fish  can  be  served  hot  or  cold. 

Baked  Haddock 

About  4  pounds  is  a  good  size  to  bake.  Clean  fish,  sprinkle 
with  salt,  stuff  and  stew.  Cut  four  or  five  slits  each  side  the 
backbone  and  insert  narrow  strips  of  fat  salt  pork.  Place  in 
pan,  sprinkle  with  a  few  grains  of  pepper,  brush  over  with 
melted  butter,  dredge  with  flour,  and  place  around  fish  small 
bits  of  pork.  Bake  1  hour  in  a  medium  oven,  basting  every 
10  minutes.  In  case  fish  seems  to  bake  too  fast,  lower  the 
flame.     Serve  with  drawn  butter  or  hollandaise  sauce. 

Baked  Bluefish 

Bake  as  haddock,  omitting  to  insert  pork  in  back.  Baste 
with  }^  cup  butter  melted  with  ^  cup  water. 

Baked  Mackerel 

Remove  head  and  tail.  Split  fish.  Put  in  buttered  pans, 
sprinkle  with  salt  and  pepper,  dot  with  butter  and  pour  over 
with  ^  cup  milk.     Bake  25  minutes  in  a  medium  oven. 

Baked  Halibut  with  Tomato  Sauce 

Put  2  pounds  cleaned  fish  in  baking  pan,  pour  around  it 
half  the  tomato  sauce  and  bake  35  minutes,  basting  often. 
Use  medium  oven.  Remove  to  a  hot  platter,  pour  around 
remaining  sauce  and  garnish  with  parsley. 

Baked  Halibut 

2  lbs.  halibut  2  tb.  flour 

1  c.  tomatoes  ^  t.  salt 

2  tb.  butter  }4  t.  pepper 

Clean  fish,  season  with  salt  and  pepper,  dredge  with  flour, 

19 


Fish 

place  in  pan,  pour  over  tomatoes,  and  dot  with  butter.     Bake 
in  a  moderate  oven,  basting  often. 

Planked  Fish 

When  using  a  gas  range,  one  is  enabled  to  serve  planked 
shad  or  whitefish,  delicacies  which  only  the  possessors  of  gas 
ranges  can  indulge  in. 

Have  a  piece  of  hardwood  (oak  or  hickory)  about  l}4 
inches  thick  and  as  large  as  your  broiling  oven  will  accom- 
modate, made  expressly  for  planking.  Have  both  sides  planed 
very  smooth  so  that  it  may  be  easily  cleaned. 

Prepare  the  fish  by  splitting  down  the  back  and  cleaning 
carefully.  About  10  minutes  before  it  is  needed  place  the 
plank  in  the  heated  broiling  oven;  when  well  heated  through 
remove  and  place  the  fish  upon  it,  skin-side  down.  Sprinkle 
with  salt  and  pepper,  and  baste  lightly  with  melted  butter  and 
lemon  juice. 

Run  the  plank  into  the  broiling  oven  so  that  the  fish  will 
come  about  6  inches  from  the  flame,  which  should  be  a  moder- 
ate one.  Allow  it  to  remain  until  a  nice  brown  and  tender, 
which  usually  requires  from  15  to  20  minutes.  Watch  care- 
fully, and  if  there  seems  danger  of  scorching,  reduce  the  flame 
or  move  the  tray  one  slide  lower  down. 

When  done  (which  may  be  ascertained  with  a  silver  fork), 
remove  from  the  oven,  baste  again  with  melted  butter,  gar- 
nish with  lemon  and  parsley.  Arrange  the  plank  on  a  tray 
and  send  at  once  to  the  table.  Never  use  any  soap  or  alkali 
in  cleaning  the  plank,  which  should  be  carefully  covered  when 
not  in  use,  to  prevent  dust  from  settling  on  it. 

Creamed  Baked  Fish 

3  lbs.  fish  boiled  and  shredded  2  c.  milk 

1  tb.  grated  onion  2  tb.  flour 

1  small  can  mushrooms  1  tb.  minced  parsley 

Salt  and  pepper  to  taste  2  tb.  sherry- 

Make  a  white  sauce,  add  onions,  parsley  and  seasoning, 
add  wine,  and  pour  over  fish  in  baking  dish,  cover  it  with 
bread  crumbs  and  brown  in  oven.  Cold  baked  fish  left  over 
will  do. 

Bluefish,  Havanaise 

Bake  bluefish  on  baking  sheet  for  10  minutes.  Prepare  6 
minced  shallots  or  1  Spanish  onion,  12  minced  fresh  mush- 
rooms, fry  all  in  crisco  2  minutes,  then  moisten  with  }4  pint 

20 


Fish 

sauterne,  add  4  peeled  fresh  tomatoes  cut  In  quarters,  a  dash 
of  tabasco  sauce.  Let  cook  10  minutes,  pour  over  bluefish, 
and  let  all  bake  10  minutes,  and  serve. 

Any  kind  of  fish  may  be  prepared  in  same  way. 

Halibut  a  la  Poulette 

Take  2  pounds  of  halibut,  arrange  in  fillets,  freeing  from 
skin  and  bone,  then  cut  into  narrow  strips,  season  with  salt, 
pepper  and  lemon  juice;  cut  2  onions  in  slices  and  lay  on  the 
fillets,  then  set  away  for  }4  hour.  At  the  end  of  this  time 
have  ready  ^  cupful  melted  crisco.  Dip  the  fillets  in  this,  roll, 
skewer  into  shape  and  dredge  with  flour.  Arrange  in  a 
criscoed  casserole  or  baking  dish  and  bake  20  minutes  in  a 
moderate  oven.  Serve  with  white  sauce  and  2  hard-boiled 
eggs  sliced  for  a  garnish. 

Salmon  Mold 

One  can  salmon,  pour  the  oil  in  a  cup.  Take  out  skin  and 
large  bones,  rub  salmon  until  smooth  and  add: 

2  tb.  crisco  3  well  beaten  eggs 

}^  c.  rolled  crackers  ^  t.  each  of  pepper  and  salt 

Put  Into  an  oiled  pan  and  steam  1  hour. 

Sauce 

1  c.  sweet  milk  Add  1  beaten  egg  and  pour 

1  tb.  flour  at  once  on  salmon  loaf 

Add  salmon  oil  and  boil  until  thick.  Garnish  with  parsley. 

Salmon  Balls 

1  c.  flaked  salmon  J4  t.  pepper 

1  c.  hot  mashed  potatoes  1  t.  lemon  juice 
K  t.  salt                                                    1  egg 

Beat  together,  form  In  balls.  Fry  In  deep  crisco,  hot 
enough  to  turn  a  crumb  of  bread  a  golden  brown  in  40  seconds. 

Salmon  Pudding 

2  cans  firm  salmon,  drained  5^  c.  sweet  milk 

and  flaked  1>^  t.  salt 

1^  tb.  butter  }4  t.  pepper 

}4  tb.  flour  ^2  t.  onion  juice 

2  eggs 

Season  the  fish  with  salt,  pepper  and  onion  juice;  melt  the 
butter;  add  the  flour;  cook  a  few  minutes,  then  stir  in  slowly 

21 


Fish 

the  milk;  when  well  thickened  add  the  flaked  fish;  take  from 
fire,  add  beaten  eggs  and  mix  well;  press  into  well  criscoed 
ring  molds,  cover  with  oil  paper,  set  mold  in  water  and 
bake  J/2  hour. 

Fried  Brook  Trout 

Clean  the  fish,  leaving  on  the  heads  and  tails.  Sprinkle 
with  salt  and  pepper,  then  dip  in  flour,  egg  and  crumbs.  Fry 
in  hot  crisco  for  about  4  minutes.  Arrange  on  a  platter  and 
garnish. 

Norwegian  Fish  Cakes 

Cut  a  fresh  salmon  in  two  parts,  long  way  of  the  fish. 
Lay  one-half  on  the  table,  skinny  side  down.  Take  out  all 
bones.  Take  a  knife  and  scrape  off  all  the  fish,  leaving  only 
the  skin.  Place  in  pan  and  beat  in  sweet  milk  until  it  is  like 
a  stiflF  batter.  Season  with  salt,  pepper  and  nutmeg.  Fry 
by  the  spoonful  in  hot  crisco. 

Salt  Codfish 

Cut  codfish  In  2-Inch  squares,  soak  them  18  hours,  chang- 
ing the  water  three  times.  Fry  in  1  tablespoon  crisco  2  chopped 
onions,  2  green  peppers,  also  2  sweet  Spanish  peppers,  moisten 
with  ^2  bottle  of  white  wine,  add  soaked  codfish,  also  as  much 
raw  potatoes,  a  little  water  and  a  good  dash  of  tabasco  sauce. 
Let  simmer  ^  hour. 

Codfish  Balls 

2  c.  mashed  potatoes  1  tb.  butter,  melted 

1>^  c.  shredded  codfish  J/i  tb.  pepper 

1  egg 

Put  codfish  in  wire  strainer,  let  cold  water  run  through  and 
squeeze  dry.  Mix  the  hot,  unseasoned  codfish  with  potatoes. 
To  this  add  the  melted  butter,  beaten  egg  and  pepper.  Beat 
well.  Shape  in  balls  and  fry  in  deep  crisco  until  a  golden 
brown  color. 

Frog  Legs 

Wash  the  frog  legs,  cover  with  boiling  water  and  let  stand 
5  minutes,  drain  and  dry.  Dust  with  salt  and  pepper,  dip  in 
egg,  roll  in  cracker  crumbs  and  fry  in  deep  fat.  Serve  with 
tomato  sauce. 

22 


Fish 


Tripe  with  Soft  Clams 


Cut  some  well  cooked  white  tripe  in  1-inch  squares.  Mince 
4  onions,  fry  them  slowly  in  butter,  add  the  tripe  and  some 
freshly  opened  clams,  season  with  salt  and  let  them  simmer 
together  for  10  minutes,  then  add  some  thick  cream  sauce  and 
mix  carefully.  Finish  with  small  pieces  of  butter  and  chopped 
parsley. 

Fish  Salad 

1  2-lb.  fish  2  t.  tabasco  sauce 

y2  pt.  olive  oil  Lemons  and  red  and  green 

4  lemons  pepper  for  decorations 

2  tb.  onions,  chopped  fine 

Boil  fish  till  done;  remove  all  meat  from  bones;  return  the 
bones  to  the  water  used  to  boil  the  fish;  add  a  little  onion, 
salt  and  tabasco  sauce  to  this  water,  and  boil  water  down  to 
J/2  pint;  strain  off  clear;  flake  the  fish.  Add  to  half  of  your 
sauce  a  teaspoonful  of  tabasco  sauce;  pour  it  over  the  fish  you 
have  just  flaked,  and  set  away  to  get  cold.  Add  the  balance 
of  the  oil  to  the  onions,  which  must  be  rubbed  to  a  paste, 
together  with  a  teaspoon  of  chili  and  the  juice  of  3  lemons; 
salt  to  taste.  Work  it  until  it  becomes  a  smooth  sauce  and 
mix  into  the  cold  fish;  pour  over  all  the  >^  pint  of  the  fish 
stock.  Wet  your  fish  mold  and  decorate  with  thin  slices  of 
lemon  and  red  and  green  peppers;  carefully  put  in  the  fish  and 
set  on  the  ice  to  jelly.  Is  better  for  being  allowed  to  stand 
over  night.     Serve  with  lettuce  or  water-cress. 

Flaked  Baked  Fish 

1  4-lb.  fish  Yolks  of  3  eggs 

}4  lb.  butter  }4  nutmeg 
1  tb.  flour  Salt  to  taste 

1  pt.  milk  }4  t.  kitchen  bouquet 

Put  fish  in  boiling  water  and  boil  till  done;  remove  and 
allow  to  cool;  flake  it  and  set  it  aside;  boil  down  the  water 
that  you  boiled  the  fish  in  to  J/2  pint;  rub  the  flour  into  the 
butter  and  add  to  the  ^  pint  of  fish  stock  1  pint  of  milk; 
make  it  boiling  hot  and  pour  into  the  butter  and  flour,  mixing 
it  thoroughly;  let  it  boil  for  2  or  3  minutes;  take  from  the  fire 
and  let  stand  for  2  or  3  minutes  while  you  are  separating  the 
yolks  of  the  eggs.  Add  the  eggs  gradually,  then  nutmeg  and 
salt,  and  lastly  cover  the  bottom  of  your  baking  dish  with  a 
layer  of  the  sauce,  then  a  layer  of  the  fish,  another  layer  of 

23 


Fish 

the  sauce  and  a  layer  of  the  fish,  finishing  with  the  sauce; 
cover  it  with  the  bread  crumbs,  and  bake  for  20  minutes  in  a 
hot  oven. 

Hardshell  Crabs 

Fry  2  finely  chopped  onions  in  butter,  sprinkle  over  a 
little  flour,  fry  for  5  minutes  and  moisten  with  milk, 
season  with  salt,  tabasco  sauce,  and  nutmeg.  Add  the  crab 
meat  and  half  of  its  quantity  of  rice  boiled  in  water,  fill  the 
crab  shells  with  the  above  preparation,  dredge  over  with  bread 
crumbs,  and  brown  in  hot  oven. 

Creamed  Shad  Roe 

Two  shad  roes  simmered  for  10  minutes  in  boiling  water? 
drain  this  off  and  let  stand  in  cold  water  10  minutes,  drain 
and  set  aside.  Separate  yolk  and  whites  of  4  eggs  hard-boiled. 
Chop  whites  and  rub  yolks  through  sieve.  Make  a  white 
sauce  of  1  cup  milk,  1  tablespoon  butter,  1  tablespoon  flour, 
pepper  and  salt  to  taste.  Rub  the  shad  roes  to  a  paste  with  a 
fork.  Stir  the  roe  into  half  the  white  sauce,  and  put  to  steam 
over  hot  water  for  10  minutes  until  thoroughly  seasoned. 
Pour  the  balance  of  sauce  over  the  whites  of  eggs.  Put  the 
roe  mixture  in  pudding  dish  and  pour  over  the  white  of  egg 
mixture,  cover  with  yolks  of  eggs.  Cover  closely  and  bake 
for  10  or  15  minutes  in  hot  oven.  Can  be  baked  in  individual 
casseroles. 

Fish  Sausage 

Remove  skin  and  bone  of  any  firm  fish,  such  as  cod,  turbot 
or  brill,  and  mince  flesh  fine.  Stew  an  onion  in  some  butter 
until  tender  and  then  pound  it  in  a  mortar  with  4  ounces  of 
butter,  adding  a  little  at  a  time.  Soak  6  ounces  of  bread 
crumbs  in  milk,  squeeze  dry  and  add  it  to  the  onion  mixture. 
Season  the  mixture  to  taste  and  mix  in  2  well  beaten  eggs. 
Last  of  all,  put  in  the  minced  fish  and  mix  all  well  together; 
shape  into  sausage  and  fry  to  a  golden  brown. 

Lobster  a  la  Newburg 

Mince  Ij^  cups  lobster  meat,  rub  1  tablespoon  butter  and 
flour  together,  yolks  of  2  eggs,  ^  teaspoon  salt,  pinch  cayenne, 
and  pinch  nutmeg.  Heat  1  cup  rich  milk,  add  the  butter  and 
flour,  cook  in  double  boiler  until  flour  is  cooked,  add  minced 
lobster  and  2  tablespoons  sherry  wine;  serve  hot.  Can  be 
made  in  chafing  dish, 

24 


Fish 


Fish  Pudding 


Boil  2  pounds  fish  in  clear  water  till  done.  Shred  or  break 
into  small  pieces,  free  of  skin  and  bone.     Make  cream  sauce 

of: 

1  c.  sweet  milk  1  tb.  flour 

1  tb.  crisco  1  t.  salt 

}4  t.  onion  juice 

When  thick  add  the  flaked  fish.  Stir  well  and  when  taken 
from  the  fire,  add  2  well  beaten  eggs,  mix  thoroughly.  Press 
in  a  criscoed  mold,  cover  with  greased  paper,  set  mold  in  warm 
water,  bake  in  an  oven  ^2  hour.  Serve  with  cream  sauce, 
potato  balls  and  chopped  parsley. 

Curried  Clams 

Place  in  a  granite  saucepan  a  tablespoonful  of  butter  or 
crisco,  gradually  adding  the  same  quantity  of  flour  and  2  scant 
cupfuls  rich  milk. 

When  the  sauce  boils,  stir  in  J4  teaspoonful  of  curry  powder 
moistened  in  a  little  cold  water,  a  pinch  each  of  salt  and  celery 
salt  and  1  chopped  hard-boiled  egg.  Meanwhile  cook  in  their 
own  liquor  until  the  edges  curl — no  longer — the  soft  portions 
of  a  pint  of  clams;  then  drain  and  pour  over  them  the  curry 
sauce.  Serve  very  hot,  surrounded  with  a  border  of  boiled 
rice,  and  garnish  with  crisp  celery. 

Steamed  Clams 

Scrub  the  shells  thoroughly  and  arrange  in  a  steamer.  Stand 
over  a  kettle  of  boiling  water.  Let  the  water  continue  to  boil 
for  15  or  20  minutes  until  the  shells  open.  Lift  out  the  clams, 
saving  the  liquor  that  has  filled  the  shells,  and  straining  it 
through  a  piece  of  cheesecloth.  Pull  off  the  skin  around  the 
clams,  and  with  the  fish  shears  nip  off  the  black  end. 

Reheat  the  liquor,  but  do  not  allow  it  to  boil.  When  ready 
to  serve,  pour  into  as  many  small  cups  as  you  have  individuals 
to  serve.  Add  to  each  a  bit  of  butter  and  a  dusting  of  paprika 
or  white  pepper. 

Stand  the  cup  in  the  center  of  a  large  soup  plate  and  ar- 
range the  clams  around  it,  5  or  6  to  each  plate.  Garnish  with 
a  little  parsley  and  lemon. 

The  clams  may  then  be  removed  from  the  shells,  dipped  in 
the  liquor  and  eaten  with  brown-bread-and-butter  sandwiches. 
The  clams  and  liquor  must  be  very  hot. 

3  25 


Fish 


Clams,  Philadelphia  Style 


Take  2  dozen  medium-sized  clams,  poach  them  in  their 
own  juice  with  as  much  water;  as  soon  as  they  are  firm,  drain 
them  off.  Fry  2  finely  cut-up  shallots  in  butter,  beat  them 
with  a  little  sherry  and  brandy,  add  the  clams  and  juice, 
season  with  a  little  salt  and  dash  of  tabasco  sauce.  Just  when 
ready  to  serve,  thicken  gravy  with  2  egg  yolks  beaten  up  with 
^  pint  cream.  Beat  without  letting  boil  and  serve  in  chafing 
dish. 

Poached  Clams 

Drain  a  quart  of  large  clams  and  remove  the  hard  muscular 
ends  or  strings;  now  butter  the  desired  number  of  baking 
shells,  arranging  in  each  about  6  of  the  prepared  clams; 
sprinkle  with  salt  and  paprika,  adding  a  little  minced  parsley, 
and  about  2  tablespoonfuls  of  clam  juice  to  each  shell  with  a 
few  drops  of  lemon  juice.  Cover  with  a  layer  of  browned 
bread  crumbs,  dusting  with  grated  nutmeg,  and  dot  thickly 
with  bits  of  butter.  Bake  in  a  quick  oven  about  15  minutes. 
Serve  accompanied  with  small  cress  sandwiches. 

Panned  Clams  with  Green  Peppers 

Boil  until  tender  2  medium-sized  green  peppers  from  which 
the  seeds  have  been  removed,  and  place  in  a  chopping  bowl 
with  a  dozen  and  a  half  little-neck  clams;  chop  rather  coarsely 
and  place  in  a  granite  saucepan,  pouring  in  }4  cup  of  the  clam 
liquor,  1  tablespoonful  of  tomato  catsup,  a  pinch  of  salt  and 
ground  mace  and  a  tablespoonful  melted  butter.  Simmer 
slowly  to  a  thick,  rich  puree  and  serve  on  rounds  of  hot  but- 
tered toast,  garnish  with   small    stuffed    olives   and   parsley. 

Clam  Chowder 

Prepare  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  chopped  pork,  fat,  a  small 
bunch  of  parsley,  chopped  not  too  fine,  4  ounces  of  chopped 
onions,  2  quarts  potatoes  cut  in  3^-inch  squares,  2  quarts  of 
clams  retaining  all  the  juice  possible,  1  quart  of  tomatoes  cut 
in  ^-inch  squares.  Put  fat  pork  into  saucepan;  when  fried 
add  onions;  let  same  fry  2  minutes;  add  potatoes,  the  clams 
chopped  up,  also  the  juice  of  same  and  the  tomatoes;  let  cook 
30  minutes,  add  spoonful  of  thyme  leaves,  a  good   dash  of 

26 


Fish 

tabasco  sauce,  and  serve.  Same  recipe  to  be  applied  for  fish 
chowder.  Boil  codfish  in  water,  remove  bones  and  use  stock 
of  same. 

Stuffed  Clams 

Fry  2  ounces  of  chopped  onions  in  2  ounces  of  butter,  add 
2  spoonfuls  of  flour,  stir  well,  then  add  liquor  from  10  raw 
clams.  Skim  off  the  foam  arising,  let  cook  for  10  minutes, 
season  with  tabasco  sauce  and  nutmeg.  Chop  up  the  raw 
clams  and  set  them  into  prepared  sauce;  when  the  clams  are 
poached,  add  chopped  parsley  and  thicken  with  egg  yolks  and 
cream.  Lay  this  preparation  aside.  Fill  the  clam  shell,  dust 
over  with  bread  crumbs,  and  color  nicely  in  oven.  Serve  on 
folded  napkins,  garnish  with  parsley  branches. 

Shad  Roe  Balls 

One  large  pair  of  roes;  boil  these  15  minutes;  mash  them; 
add  ]/2  cup  of  fine,  soft  bread  crumbs,  2  tablespoons  melted 
butter,  salt,  paprika,  and  a  beaten  egg;  mold  into  balls;  crumb, 
egg  and  crumb  them  and  cook  in  deep  fat;  drain  and  serve, 
piled  up  in  a  pyramid  on  hot  dish.  For  the  sauce  take  heaping 
tablespoonful  of  grated  horseradish;  if  the  bottled  variety 
squeeze  dry.  To  this  add  a  cup  of  stiffly  beaten  cream,  a 
little  salt  and  half  teaspoonful  of  sugar. 

Jambalaya 

One  and  one-half  cupfuls  of  dry  boiled  rice;  a  slice  ham  cut 
into  small  pieces;  1  finely  cut  large  pork  sausage;  }4  tea- 
poon  of  chili  powder;  1^  dozen  oysters;  J/2  teaspoonful  salt; 
1  tablespoonful  butter.  Put  oysters  in  a  dry,  hot  skillet 
to  draw  the  water  from  them,  take  out  and  drain,  fry  the 
sausages  and  ham  in  butter,  stir  in  rice,  salt  and  chili  powder; 
then  add  oysters.     This  is  a  famous  Creole  dish. 

Creole  Oysters 

Cook  1  pint  oysters  in  liquor  until  plump,  drain  and  reserve 
1^  cups  of  liquor,  3  tablespoonfuls  butter,  1  tablespoonful 
flour  rubbed  together,  add  oyster  liquor,  1  cup  of  stewed 
strained  tomatoes,  few  cloves,  bay  leaf,  ^  teaspoonful  grated 

27 


Fish 

onion,  1  tablespoonful  grated  celery,  salt,  pepper  and  a  few 
drops  tabasco  sauce.  Pour  oysters  into  hot  sauce  and  let 
stand  in  double  boiler  until  seasoned  through.  Serve  on 
toast. 

Creaiaed  Oysters 

25  oyfters  1  tb.  flour 

1  pt.  cream  Pinch  mace 

1  tb.  butter  Salt  and  pepper  to  taste 

Boil  oysters  in  their  own  liquor,  drain.  Make  sauce  of 
flour  and  butter  rubbed  together  and  add  to  boiling  cream, 
seasoned.  Let  sauce  boil  until  flour  is  cooked.  Pour  over 
oysters  and  serve  at  once. 


Oyster  Salad 

Boil  1  quart  oysters  in  own  liquor  until  they  plump  and 
curl  at  edges,  drain  and  cool.  Mix  with  them  1  quart  celery, 
cut  fine,  season  with  salt  and  pepper.  Mix  well,  tossing  with 
a  silver  fork.  Pour  over  the  whole  salad  dressing  and  garnish 
with  celery  tips. 

Oyster  Cocktail 

Place  4  or  5  small  fresh  oysters  in  tall  punch  glasses,  add 
a  dash  of  cayenne  pepper  to  each  glass,  a  few  drops  of  lemon 
juice,  Worcestershire  sauce  and  a  little  grated  horse-radish. 
Then  fill  each  glass  up  with  tomato  catsup.  To  be  appetizing 
these  should  be  well  chilled  before  using.  Put  in  cold  or  shave 
ice  on  top. 

Scalloped  Oysters 

1  pt.  oysters  ^  c.  crisco,  melted 

2  tb.  milk  Salt 

3  c.  bread  crumbs  Pepper 

Mix  bread  crumbs  with  crisco.  Grease  a  baking  dish  with 
crisco,  put  a  layer  of  crumbs,  cover  with  oysters,  and  sprinkle 
with  salt  and  pepper.  Repeat  and  cover  top  with  crumbs. 
Bake  30  minutes  in  hot  oven. 

28 


Fish 

Oysters 

Blanch  some  large  oysters,  drain  them  after  the  first  boil, 
keep  the  liquor;  boil  some  vinegar  with  cloves,  whole  pepper, 
whole  allspice — ^  ounce  of  each  for  every  quart  of  vinegar — 
add  a  little  mace.  Put  two-thirds  of  the  oyster  liquor  with 
one-third  of  the  vinegar,  adding  the  oysters. 

Oysters  a  la  Boucicault 

Butter  a  deep  dish,  pour  in  some  oysters  In  their  own 
liquor,  season  with  salt  and  pepper,  tomato  catsup  and  tabasco 
sauce.  Dot  over  a  few  bits  of  butter  and  set  the  dish  in  a 
hot  oven.     Serve  as  soon  as  the  oysters  are  poached. 

Fried  Oysters 

Choose  selected  oysters  and  dry  between  towels.  Roll  In 
cracker  crumbs,  seasoned  with  salt  and  pepper,  then  in  beaten 
egg  and  then  in  crumbs  again.  Fry  in  deep  crisco  until  a 
golden  brown.  For  frying  oysters  the  crisco  should  be  hot 
enough  to  turn  a  crumb  of  bread  a  golden  brown  in  20  seconds. 
Drain  on  paper. 

Oyster  Cocktail 

2  c.  vinegar  1  c.  Worcestershire  sauce 

1  c.  tomato  sauce  Salt  and  pepper  to  taste 

This  is  enough  sauce  for  J^  gallon  oysters,  which  should  be 
small.  Half  fill  glasses  with  oysters,  add  pinch  grated  horse- 
radish, pour  sauce  over  them.  Garnish  with  slices  of  lemon 
and  curly  parsley  or  cress. 

Fricassee  of  Oysters 

Put  1  quart,  or  25  oysters,  on  fire  In  their  own  liquor. 
When  it  begins  to  boil  turn  into  a  hot  dish  through  colander. 

Put  in  saucepan  2  tablespoons  of  butter,  1  tablespoon 
sifted  flour,  let  it  cook  a  minute,  stirring  well,  then  add,  mix- 
ing well,  a  cup  of  the  liquor.  Take  from  the  fire  and  mix  in 
the  yolks  of  2  eggs,  a  little  salt  and  very  little  cayenne  pepper, 
1  tablespoon  lemon  juice  and  grating  of  nutmeg.  Beat  well, 
then  return  to  fire  to  set  the  eggs  without  allowing  to  boil. 
Then  mix  the  oysters  with  this  mixture.  These  oysters  may 
be  served  on  thin  slices  of  toast  or  in  patty  pans, 

29 


Fish 


Roasted  Oysters 


Buy  oysters  In  the  shell.  Wash  and  put  the  shells  into  a 
baking  pan  or  on  top  of  the  stove.  Heat  till  the  shells  part. 
Open  and  sprinkle  with  salt  and  pepper.     Serve  in  the  shell. 

Baked  Oysters 

Wash  the  oysters  and  arrange  on  toast  or  on  crackers  in  a 
baking  pan.  Bake  till  the  gills  curl  and  pour  over  them  the 
following  sauce: 

2  tb.  melted  butter  Few  drops  tabasco 

1  t.  lemon  juice  }i  t.  chopped  parsley 

Dash  of  pepper 

Heat  the  butter  and  add  the  other  ingredients. 


30 


CHAPTER  VI 

SAUCES 

Cheese  Sauce 

1  tb.  crisco  Little  parsley,  finely  chopped 

\}i  tb.  flour  1  c.  milk 

Small  piece  of  chopped  onion     }i  c.  grated  cheese 

Melt  crisco  and  add  flour,  then  onion.  Let  cook  a  few- 
minutes,  then  add  the  milk.  Cook  until  it  boils,  then  add 
the  cheese.  Stir  until  cheese  melts,  add  chopped  parsley. 
Good  for  cauliflower  or  similar  vegetables. 

Creole  Sauce 

One  can  tomatoes  seasoned  with  salt,  red  pepper,  6  cloves 
and  2  bay  leaves;  cook  until  soft  and  strain;  melt  2  tablespoons 
crisco  and  cook  in  it  1  Spanish  onion  chopped  fine;  add  1  table- 
spoon flour,  the  strained  tomato  juice  and  2  green  peppers 
chopped  fine;  cool  until  thick. 

Bread  Sauce 

To  lyi  cups  of  rich  milk,  add  1  cup  of  soft  bread  crumbs 
and  y2  onion  in  which  3  cloves  have  been  pressed.  Let  cook 
in  a  double  boiler  about  an  hour,  stirring  it  occasionally. 
Remove  the  onion,  add  1  or  2  tablespoons  of  butter,  a  scant 
y2  teaspoonful,  each,  of  salt  and  pepper,  and  beat  well. 

Maitre  d'  Hotel  Butter 

(For  broiled  fish,  steak  or  chops) 

Beat  %  cup  butter  to  a  cream;  beat  in  a  teaspoonful  of 
salt,  a  dash  of  pepper  and,  very  slowly,  a  tablespoonful  of 
lemon  juice.  The  heat  of  the  broiled  article  will  melt  the 
butter.  For  a  change  add  a  tablespoonful  of  fine-chopped 
parsley  with  the  seasoning. 

Curry  Sauce 

1  tb.  chopped  onion  1  t.  curry  powder 

1  tb.  butter  1  c.  boiling  water 

1  tb.  flour  }4  t.  salt 

1  tb.  lemon  juice 

Cook  the  onion  in  the  butter  until  it  is  slightly  browned; 

31 


Sauces 

add  the  curry  powder  and  flour  and  mix  thoroughly.  Add 
the  water  gradually;  bring  to  a  boil;  add  salt  and  lemon  juice; 
strain  and  serve. 

Tartare  Sauce 

}4  c.  mayonnaise  dressing  }4  tb.  chopped  olives 

}4  tb.  capers  ^  tb.  chopped  pickle 

Chop  the  capers,  olives  and  pickle  very  fine  and  add  them 
to  the  dressing.     Serve  with  fried  fish  or  cold  meat  dishes. 

Tomato  Cheese  Cream 

2  small  tomatoes  or  }4  c.  pulp         4  tb.  cheese 
l}^  t,  tarragon  vinegar  J/2  t.  French  mustard 

Cook  a  few  minutes,  add  salt,  paprika  to  taste  and  ^2  cup 
cream,  just  before  serving. 

Tomato  Sauce 

Make  a  plain  cream  sauce  and  just  before  serving  add  a 
cup  of  hot  cooked  tomatoes,  strained.  Add  a  pinch  of  soda 
to  the  tomatoes  before  mixing  them. 

Tomato  Sauce 

}4  can  tomatoes,  or  2  or  3  fresh         2  t.  crisco 
tomatoes  1  tb.  flour 

1  slice  chopped  onion  }/2  t.  salt 

Sugar  if  desired  ^2  t.  pepper 

Bit  of  bay  leaf 

Cook  tomatoes,  onion  and  bay  leaf  until  soft  and  strain 
through  a  sieve.  Melt  crisco,  add  flour  and  strained  tomatoes. 
Stir  in  seasonings,  and  cook  until  thick. 

Tomiato  Sauce 

1  c.  strained  tomato  juice  }4  t.  salt 

}4  t.  onion  juice  ^  t.  pepper 

2  tb.  butter  2  tb.  flour 

Rub  together  2  tablespoonfuls  butter  and  2  tablespoonfuls 
flour,  add  to  tomato  juice,  season,  and  let  simmer  in  double 
boiler  for  5  minutes. 

32 


Sauces 


Brown  Sauce 


1  tb.  crisco  1  c.  stock 

2  tb.  flour  ^  t.  salt 

J4  t.  pepper 

Melt  crisco  In  saucepan,  add  flour,  and  cook  till  a  nut- 
brown  color.  Stir  in  stock  and  boil  for  3  minutes.  Season 
to  taste.     Mushrooms  may  be  added. 

Creole  Sauce 

2  tb.  chopped  onion  2  tomatoes 
4  tb.  chopped  green  pepper               6  olives 

1  t.  salt  2  tb.  melted  crisco 

1  c.  tomato  sauce  Pepper  to  taste 

Cook  onion  and  pepper  with  the  crisco  for  5  minutes.  Add 
the  tomatoes  and  olives  and  cook  2  minutes.  Then  add  the 
cup  tomato  sauce.  Stir  well  and  allow  to  stand  a  few  minutes 
on  the  range  before  serving. 

Chili  Gravy 

This  may  be  made  of  any  brown  or  meat  gravy  by  adding 
to  each  ]/2  pint  of  gravy,  1  teaspoonful  of  chili  powder,  stirring 
thoroughly  and  cooking  for  10  minutes.  This  makes  a  very 
rich  sauce  for  fried  eggs,  cooked  rice,  baked  beans,  etc. 

Anchovy  Sauce 

3  anchovies  }4  tb.  catsup 

1  tb.  butter  .  Dash  red  pepper 

^2  tb.  flour  J^  c.  boiling  water 

1  tb.  lemon  juice 

Bone  the  anchovies  and  pound  them  to  a  paste.  Melt  the 
butter;  stir  in  the  flour  and  when  smooth  add  the  anchovies, 
pepper  and  catsup.  Mix  well;  pour  the  hot  water  over  all; 
boil  2  minutes,  stirring  constantly;  add  the  lemon  juice  and 
serve  with  boiled  or  baked  fish. 

Mushroom  Sauce 

6  mushrooms  Juice  }4  lemon 

}4  tb.  butter  1  tb.  mushroom  catsup 

Salt  and  red  pepper  J4  c.  stock 

}4  t.  flour 

Clean  the  mushrooms;  cut  them  into  small  pieces;  put 
them  in  a  saucepan  with  the  butter,  salt  and  pepper,  lemon 

33 


Sauces 

juice  and  catsup;  stew  until  tender;  add  the  stock  and  the 
flour  mixed  with  a  little  cold  water;  bring  all  to  a  boil  and 
serve  with  beefsteak  or  game. 

Caper  Sauce 

1  tb.  butter  1  t.  onion  juice 

1  tb.  flour  )4  t.  salt 

1  c.  meat  broth  Dash  pepper 

1  tb.  capers 

Melt  the  butter;  add  the  flour,  then  the  broth  and  season- 
ing, stirring  to  prevent  lumps.  When  it  boils,  add  the  capers; 
stand  over  hot  water  for  10  minutes  and  serve. 

Cheese  Sauce  for  Rice 

1^  c.  milk  IH  tb.  flour 

^  t.  salt  2  tb.  butter 

1}4  c.  grated  cheese  Cayenne  pepper 

Stir  the  flour  and  the  salt  smoothly  into  J/2  cupful  of  milk; 
heat  the  remaining  milk  carefully  to  the  boiling  point,  prefer- 
ably in  a  small  frying  pan.  Add  the  butter.  Thicken  with 
the  flour  mixture.  Let  all  boil  together  for  2  minutes,  and 
then  set  aside  the  pan  to  cool  slightly  while  grating  the  cheese. 
Add  the  cheese,  and  bring  slowly  to  boiling,  stir  constantly. 
Season  highly  with  cayenne  or  white  pepper,  and  serve   hot. 

Sardine  Mayonnaise 

To  1  cup  of  mayonnaise  dressing,  made  in  the  usual  manner, 
beat  in  2  tablespoonfuls  of  sardine  paste  (sardines  pressed 
through  a  sieve)  and  1  tablespoonful  of  pimento  puree  (pi- 
mentos pressed  through  a  sieve).  This  dressing  is  also  good 
with  hard-cooked  eggs. 

Egg  Sauce 

Melt  3  tablespoonfuls  of  butter,  add  3  tablespoonfuls  of 
flour  and  stir  until  well  blended;  then  pour  on  gradually, 
while  stirring  constantly,  1^  cupfuls  of  hot  water.  Bring  to 
the  boiling  point  and  add  }4  teaspoonful  salt,  }4  teaspoonful 
pepper,  the  yolks  of  2  eggs,  slightly  beaten,  1  teaspoonful  of 
lemon  juice  and  3  tablespoonfuls  butter,  little  at  a  time. 

34 


Sauces 


Caramel  for  Coloring 


Cook  ^2  cup  sugar,  stirring  constantly,  over  a  quick  fire 
until  it  liquefies;  add  >^  cup  boiling  water  and  let  boil  until 
the  caramel  is  dissolved.     Store  in  a  glass  jar. 

Hollandaise  Sauce 

One-half  cup  butter;  divide  in  3  pieces;  put  1  piece  in 
double  boiler  with  yolks  of  2  eggs;  tablespoonful  lemon  juice; 
stir  constantly  until  butter  melts;  add  second  piece,  as  sauce 
thickens  pour  in  third  piece,  which  has  been  allowed  to  melt; 
add  gradually  ^  cup  boiling  water;  cook  1  minute;  season 
with  cayenne,  salt  and  black  pepper.  If  allowed  to  remain 
one  second  too  long,  mixture  will  separate.  When  cold  1 
tablespoonful  whipped  cream  will  be  found  an  addition.  Some 
like  J4  cup  grated  horse-radish  added  or  flavored  with  anchovy 
essence  or  chopped  parsley.  Lobster,  salmon,  mutton,  etc., 
may  have  hollandaise  sauce  served  on  them. 

Plain  Tomato  Sauce  with  Chili 

Thoroughly  mix  3^  to  2  tablespoonfuls  of  sifted  flour  with 
a  like  quantity  of  crisco  and  cook  for  3  or  4  minutes,  stirring 
briskly;  then  add  2  cupfuls  of  strained  tomatoes,  season 
with  salt  and  pepper  and  a  few  drops  of  lemon  juice  and  from 
1  to  3  teaspoonfuls  of  chili  powder,  and  cook  from  15  to  20 
minutes  until  done.  If  desired  a  little  sugar  may  be  added 
to  this. 

Stuffing  for  Fish 

}i  loaf  of  bread  1  tb.  chopped  parsley 

l}4  t.  of  salt  2  tb.  chopped  onions 

X  t.  pepper  2  egg  yolks 

3  tb.  melted  crisco 


Oyster  Stuffing 

1  c.  cracker  crumbs  IJ^  t.  lemon  juice 
X  c.  melted  butter  1  c.  oysters 

2  t.  salt  }4  tb.  chopped  parsley 

J/i  t,  pepper 

Mix  seasoning  and  butter  with  crumbs.  Remove  tough 
parts  of  oysters;  add  soft  parts  to  the  mixture,  moistening  with 
2  tablespoons  oyster  liquor. 

35 


Sauces 


Stuffing  for  Baked  Fish 


1  c,  bread  and  cracker  crumbs         }4  t.  salt 
}4  c.  melted  butter  ^  t.  pepper 

}i  c.  hot  water  Onion  juice 

Mix  ingredients,  using  only  a  few  drops  of  onion  juice. 


Tartare  Sauce 

Put  into  a  soup-plate  a  tablespoonful  of  chopped  parsley,  a 
teaspoonful  each  of  chopped  capers,  home-made  mustard  (dry 
mustard  mixed  with  cold  water  to  required  thickness)  and 
minced  onion,  and  J/2  pint  of  boiled  dressing;  mix  well  and 
serve  with  all  kinds  of  fried  fish,  meat  croquettes,  fried  oysters, 
scallops,  etc. 

Hungarian  Sauce 

Add  to  3  tablespoonfuls  of  mayonnaise,  ^  teaspoonful  of 
sweet  chili  pepper  or  Hungarian  paprika,  a  small  cucumber 
pickle  chopped  fine,  and  a  scant  teaspoonful  of  grated  horse- 
radish. Mix  and  serve  with  cold  roast  veal,  or  cold  or  hot 
fresh  pork. 

Italian  Sauce 

One  teaspoon  of  anchovy  paste  (or  3  salt  anchovies  pounded 
to  a  paste),  1  teaspoonful  of  French  or  German  mustard,  3 
tablespoonfuls  of  boiled  dressing,  2  tablespoonfuls  of  vinegar 
from  the  pickled  onion  bottle;  mix  well,  serve  with  herring 
salad  or  mixed  fish  and  vegetable  salads. 


Sauces  for  Baked  or  Boiled  Fish 

2  c.  tomatoes  3  tb.  butter 

1  c.  water  3  tb.  flour 

1  slice  onion  ^  tb.  sugar 
Cloves  Salt  and  pepper 

Cook  tomatoes,  water,  onion,  3  cloves  and  sugar  together 
20  minutes.  Melt  butter,  add  flour  and  stir  into  the  mixture. 
Add  ^  teaspoon  salt  and  a  dash  of  pepper;  cook  10  minutes 
and  strain. 

36 


Sauces 
Drawn  Butter 

yi  c.  butter  ^  t.  salt 

3  tb.  flour  yi  t.  pepper 

1^  c.  hot  water 

Melt  half  the  butter;  add  flour  mixed  with  seasoning  and 
then  hot  water  gradually.  Boil  5  minutes  and  add  remaining 
butter  in  small  pieces. 

Egg  Sauce 

Add  2  hard  boiled  eggs  cut  in  slices  to  drawn  butter,  or  add 
the  beaten  yolks  of  2  eggs  and  a  little  lemon  juice  to  drawn 
butter. 


37 


CHAPTER  VII 

MEATS 

Meat  Is  one  of  the  most  Important  articles  of  diet,  and  of 
all  meats  beef  is  the  most  nutritious.  It  is  composed  of  fibrin, 
albumen,  gelatin,  fat,  mineral  salts  and  water.  It  is  necessary 
to  know  something  of  the  divisions  of  a  side  of  beef,  and  to 
apply  proper  methods  of  cooking  to  attain  good  results  from 
different  cuts.  The  expensive  cuts  come  from  that  part  of 
beef  where  muscles  are  little  used  and,  therefore,  we  find  meat 
fine  grained  and  tender.  These  cuts  require  less  time  for 
cooking. 

Best  beef  is  secured  from  cattle  4  or  5  years  old,  and  flesh 
should  be  firm,  fine  grained,  bright  red,  or  with  goodly  quantity 
of  fat.  Cold  storage  beef,  or  that  which  has  hung  4  or  5 
weeks,  is  best.  Remove  meat  as  soon  as  delivered,  wipe  with 
clean,  damp  cloth,  wrap  loosely  in  oil  paper  and  place  in  re- 
frigerator.   Never  wash  meat.     To  do  so  withdraws  the  juices. 

In  soup  making,  cover  the  meat  with  cold  water  and  allow 
to  heat  gradually,  simmering  for  a  long  time  till  the  meat  is  left 
tasteless.  Cheaper  cuts,  flank,  round,  rump,  ribs,  brisket  and 
neck,  are  equally  rich  in  nutriment,  but  require  long,  slow  cook- 
ing to  render  them  digestible  and  bring  out  the  flavor.  Roast- 
ing and  broiling  methods  that  develop  a  fine  and  distinctive 
flavor  can  be  applied  to  expensive  or  tender  cuts.  Liver, 
heart  and  kidneys  are  of  close  texture  and  very  difficult  to 
digest.  Tripe,  or  the  lining  of  the  first  stomach,  is  easily 
digested,  but  on  account  of  the  large  amount  of  fat  not 
desirable. 

Boiled  meat  Is  prepared  by  placing  It  In  boiling  water  and 
allowing  to  boil  for  5  minutes;  the  juices  on  the  outer  surface 
are  quickly  coagulated  and  the  inner  juices  prevented  from 
escaping.  The  temperature  is  reduced  and  held  at  simmering 
point:  this  preserves  flavor  and  nutriment. 

Broiled  steaks  should  be  cut  at  least  1  Inch  In  thickness 
and  may  be  cut  2  inches;  the  steak  should  be  wiped  with 
damp  cloth,  and  trimmed  of  bone  and  skin.  Porterhouse  and 
sirloins  are  tender  and  full  of  flavor,  but  they  are  expensive 
on  account  of  loss  of  bone,  fat,  etc. 

38 


Meats 

Broiled  Steak  and  Chops 

Sirloin,  porterhouse,  cross-cut  of  rump  and  top  of  the  round 
are  all  good  cuts  of  steak.  The  steak  should  be  cut  at  least 
one  inch  thick.  Wipe  with  a  cloth  wrung  out  of  cold  water, 
and  remove  superfluous  fat.  Place  steak,  or  chops,  on  grill 
of  broiler.  Use  highest  flame.  Remove  steak  to  a  hot  platter, 
spread  with  butter,  and  sprinkle  with  salt  and  pepper.  Have 
broiler  oven  well  heated,  turn  often.     Season  after  cooked. 

Start  lamb  or  mutton  chops  the  same  way;  then  lower  the 
flame  and  finish  cooking.  Season  chops  with  salt  and  pepper 
after  serving. 

The  time  required  for  broiling  steak,  chops,  etc.,  varies 
from  17  to  25  minutes,  according  to  the  thickness  of  the  meat. 

Roast  Beef 

For  roasting  the  best  cuts  are  top  or  middle  of  sirloin,  back 
of  rump  or  first  three  ribs.  Wipe  meat,  put  on  a  rack  in 
dripping  pan,  skin  side  down,  in  a  very  hot  oven  without  salt 
or  water;  let  it  remain  until  seared,  then  reduce  heat.  Season 
meat  with  salt,  dredge  meat  with  flour  and  return  it  to  oven. 
When  flour  in  pan  is  browned,  reduce  heat,  baste  every  10 
minutes  with  the  fat  in  the  pan.  If  necessary,  a  small  quantity 
of  water  may  be  added.  When  about  cooked,  turn  meat  over 
and  dredge  with  flour  for  final  browning. 

Roast  Beef  Gravy 

Remove  all  but  3  tablespoons  of  fat  from  the  pan.  Place 
over  flame  and  add  3  tablespoons  flour,  stirring  until  well 
browned.  Add  gradually  1^  cups  boiling  water,  cook  5 
minutes,  season  with  salt  and  pepper,  and  strain. 

Pot  Roast  I 

Melt  In  a  hot  frying  pan  a  tablespoon  crisco;  while  very 
hot  put  in  roast  and  brown  it  on  all  sides  by  rolling  it  over  in 
the  pan.  Do  not  insert  a  fork,  as  that  will  cause  juices  to 
escape.  Put  browned  meat  in  a  kettle,  preferably  an  iron  pot, 
which  has  been  heated;  put  water  in  frying  kettle  to  obtain  any 
juice  which  may  have  escaped,  and  pour  over  the  meat.  Cover 
closely  and  place  over  flame  until  boiling  point  is  reached; 
then  simmer  and  cook  slowly  3  hours,  turning  meat  occasion- 
ally. Keep  about  1  cup  of  water  under  meat,  and  15  minutes 
before  removing  from  kettle,  sprinkle  over  the  meat  a  little 
flour  and  salt.     Remove  meat  and  thicken  gravy.     Browned 

39 


Meats 

potatoes  may  be  served  with  a  pot  roast.  Boil  either  white 
or  sweet  potatoes  until  nearly  done,  roll  in  flour  and  place  in 
gravy  in  the  kettle  after  meat  has  been  removed;  when  well 
browned,  remove  them  and  place  them  in  a  hot  oven  while 
the  gravy  is  being  thickened. 

Pot  Roast  II 

Wipe  the  meat  with  a  damp  cloth  and  put  into  an  iron  pot 
with  a  little  fat.  Place  over  a  moderate  heat  and  brown  slowly, 
turning  it  frequently;  this  will  take  about  20  minutes.  When 
the  roast  is  well  browned,  season  with  salt  and  pepper,  put  in 

1  cupful  of  boiling  water,  cover  closely,  and  set  the  pot  back 
where  the  meat  will  cook  slowly.  As  the  water  evaporates  add 
a  little  more,  )4  cupful  at  a  time.  Allow  25  minutes  to  each 
pound.  Take  up  the  meat,  and  add  a  small  quantity  of  water 
to  the  juices  in  the  pot.  Thicken  the  gravy  with  a  little  flour 
stirred  to  a  thin  paste  with  a  little  water,  and  serve  in  a  gravy 
boat. 

Beef  en  Casserole 

IJ^  lbs.  beef  1  small  carrot,  cut  fine 

1  tb.  finely  cut  onion  1  tb.  cut  celery 

}4  tb.  white  pepper  1  tb.  flour 

1  tb.  finely  chopped  parsley  Dash  paprika 

1  t.  salt 

Purchase  chuck  or  any  other  cheap  piece  of  meat.  Wipe 
with  a  wet  cloth  and  cut  into  small  pieces,  or  let  remain  whole 
(that  is  a  matter  of  choice).  Put  the  meat  into  a  casserole 
with  the  onion,  celery,  carrot,  salt,  pepper,  and  paprika;  add 

2  cups  of  boiling  water  and  bake  in  a  hot  oven  2  hours, 
adding  water  if  necessary.  Put  the  meat  in  the  center  of 
platter.  Mix  the  flour  with  a  little  cold  water,  and  add  to  the 
gravy.  Boil  5  minutes.  If  it  is  not  brown  enough  add  1 
tablespoon  of  caramel.  Pour  the  gravy  over  the  meat  and 
vegetables  and  sprinkle  with  the  chopped  parsley.  Garnish 
with  sprigs  of  parsley 

Hamburger  Steak  with  Tomato  Sauce 
and  Rice  Border 

1  lb.  round  steak,  chopped  }4  t.  pepper 

1  t.  salt  }4  c.  bread  crumbs 

1  tb.  chopped  parsley 

Mix  all  well  together,  then  form  into  flat  cakes.  Brush 
pan  with  drippings  and  bake  in  hot  oven.  Serve  on  platter, 
with  tomato  sauce  and  the  boiled  rice  border. 

40 


Meats 

Tomato  Sauce 

Put  1  cup  of  tomatoes,  strained,  into  saucepan  and  add  1 
teaspoonful  cornstarch  wet  with  a  little  cold  water  and  boil  3 
minutes. 

Boiled  Rice 

Boil  1  cup  of  rice  which  has  been  washed  through  several 
waters  in  4  quarts  of  boiling  water  for  30  minutes.  Blanch 
with  boiling  water  and  place  on  platter  in  the  oven  for  a  few 
minutes. 

Beef  a  la  Mode 

Have  a  round  of  beef  (about  3  lbs.)  well  larded  with  salt 
pork.  (Beef  in  this  style  should  preferably  be  cooked  in  an 
iron  saucepan.)  Put  in  saucepan  2  or  3  slices  of  fat  salt  pork 
and  try  out  well.  Sprinkle  surface  of  meat  with  flour,  add  8 
small  onions  and  brown  together  in  the  fat  in  the  saucepan. 
Pour  over  1  pint  of  water  and  add  a  bouquet  of  parsley,  thyme 
and  bay  leaf  and  2  cloves.  Allow  meat  to  simmer  over  a  low 
flame  2  hours,  adding  water  when  necessary.  Add  8  small 
carrots  and  1  small  turnip  cut  in  slices  and  cook  1^  hours 
longer  or  until  meat  and  vegetables  are  done.  A  few  minutes 
before  meat  is  done,  pour  over  1  small  wineglass  of  sherry  or 
madeira  wine. 

Larding  meat  is  inserting  narrow  strips  of  fat  salt  pork  into 
the  surface. 

Braised  Flank  of  Steak  in  Cooker 

1  flank  steak,  or  1  onion  sliced 

1  lb.  top  round  cut  }4  1  c.  hot  water 

in.  thick  }4  c.  carrot  cubes 

Dressing  made  as  follows: 

1  c.  soft  bread  crumbs  2  t.  celery,  chopped 

2  t.  melted  crisco  J4  t.  salt 

2  t.  parsley,  chopped  fine  Sprinkle  of  pepper 

^2  t.  onion  juice,  or  1  small  onion,  chopped 

Trim  edges  of  steak  if  necessary.  Sprinkle  with  salt  and 
pepper.  Spread  dressing  over  steak  evenly,  roll  and  tie 
securely.  Sear  in  frying  pan  with  crisco.  Place  on  bed  of 
carrots  and  onions  with  hot  water  in  the  kettle  of  the  cooker. 
Heat  both  stones  15  minutes.  Leave  in  cooker  2  or  3  hours. 
Serve  with  brown  sauce  made  from  drippings  in  the  kettle. 

4  41 


Meats 

Round  Steak  with  Yorkshire  Pudding 

Put  a  (round  or  rump)  steak  cut  quite  thick  into  your 
roaster  about  20  minutes  before  serving  dinner,  and  when  in 
the  oven  about  5  minutes,  pour  in  the  following  Yorkshire 
pudding: 

2  eggs,  beat  well  1  c.  of  milk,  beat  again,  then 

l4  t.  salt  add  2  c.  of  flour  sifted  with 

2  t.  baking  powder 

Mix  all  together,  not  too  thin.  When  the  steak  has  been 
in  the  oven  5  minutes  pour  the  batter  all  over  it.  Cook  15 
minutes  and  you  will  have  a  very  tender  and  tasty  steak  and 
a  pudding  that  will  melt  in  your  mouth. 

Fillet  of  Beef 

Select  a  short  fillet  of  beef  weighing  3  pounds  and  remove 
with  a  sharp  knife  every  muscle,  ligament,  and  all  tough  skin. 
If  necessary,  skewer  into  round  shape.  Lard  with  strips  of  fat 
salt  pork  2  inches  long  and  }4  inch  thick.  Dredge  well  with 
salt,  pepper  and  flour,  and  put  without  water  in  a  small  pan. 
Bake  in  hot  oven  about  30  minutes,  first  boiler  of  oven,  then 
on  upper  grate.     Serve  with  hoUandaise  or  tomato  sauce. 

Hash  Croquettes 

1  c.  cold  roast  beef  or  rare  steak,  Salt  and  pepper  to  taste 

chopped  fine  2  tb.  bread  crumbs 

1  t.  minced  onion  1  tb.  melted  crisco  or  dripping.s 

1  t.  Worcestershire  sauce  1  egg 

Shape  like  croquettes,  dip  in  egg  and  finally  in  crumbs. 
Fry  in  deep  crisco  hot  enough  to  brown  a  crumb  of  bread  in 
40  seconds,  drain  and  serve  with  tomato  sauce. 

Tamale  Loaf 

Steam  3  pounds  of  lean  meat  until  tender;  put  with  1 
small  onion  and  1  can  tomatoes  through  food  chopper  (not 
too  fine),  straining  the  liquor  from  the  tomatoes  into  the  liquor 
from  meat  first.  Strain  broth  and  add  meat,  etc.;  season 
highly  with  salt,  cayenne,  chili  pepper  and  place  all  together 
in  large  granite  kettle.  When  boiling  well  slowly  stir  in  yellow 
cornmeal  until  stiflF  as  mush  for  frying,  allowing  it  to  cook  well. 
Pour  into  two  small  pans,  previously  wet  with  cold  water.  If 
desired,  add  1  cup  chopped  olives  before  molding. 

42 


Meats 


Meat  Cakes 


Pass  }4  pound  of  round  steak  through  meat  chopper.  Take 
as  much  of  left-over  pieces  of  bread,  pour  water  over  them, 
squeeze  it  out,  crumble  finely  and  mix  with  meat,  using  a  fork. 
Season  with  salt,  pepper  and  very  little  grated  onion.  Dip 
hands  into  cold  water  and  shape  mixture  into  small  cakes. 
Fry  brown  in  hot  fat. 

Broiled  Bacon 

Select  fat  bacon  and  keep  in  refrigerator  until  just  before 
cooking.  Lay  the  slices  in  a  toaster  and  broil  quickly  under 
gas  flame  until  each  side  is  crisp.  Drain  on  soft  paper  and 
serve  at  once,  with  eggs,  creamed  potatoes,  canned  tomatoes, 
baked  bananas  or  meats. 

Baked  Ham 

Scrape  and  wash  ham  as  clean  as  possible;  if  possible  soak 
over  night.  Put  on  in  kettle  of  cold  water  enough  to  cover,  in 
which  1  teaspoonful  soda  has  been  dissolved.  Let  simmer 
for  an  hour.  Pour  off  water  and  replace  fresh  boiling  water 
and  add  2  tablespoonfuls  good  vinegar.  Prick  with  a  fork 
occasionally,  simmering  the  second  hour.  Skin  and  place  in 
covered  baking  pan.  Sear  in  diamond  shape  top  of  ham  and 
sprinkle  spices  and  brown  sugar.  Pour  1  pint  of  sherry  wine 
in  baking  pan  over  the  ham  and  cover  pan.  Baste  from  time 
to  time.  The  ham  should  bake  about  1}4  hours  to  2  hours. 
Let  brown  last  10  minutes.     This  is  delicious. 

Blanketed  Ham 

Boil  ham  as  above  and  when  ready  to  bake  make  a  soft 
dough  of  flour,  salt,  little  sugar  and  water.  Rub  the  ham  over 
with  mixture  of  vinegar,  molasses,  and  a  little  mustard,  using 
^2  cup  vinegar,  1  tablespoonful  molasses,  ^  teaspoonful  mus- 
tard.    Cover  with  the  dough  and  bake  slowly  for  2  hours. 

Newport  Hash 

Run  left-over  meat  through  grinder,  add  salt,  pepper  and 
a  little  minced  onion  and  parsley,  add  enough  tomato  catsup 
to  flavor,  fill  baking  dish  with  layer  of  meat,  then  cold  sliced 
potatoes,  alternately.  Dot  the  top  with  bits  of  butter  and 
cracker  crumbs.     Bake  in  moderate  oven  20  minutes, 

43 


Meats 


Planked  Steak 


Treat  plank  24  hours  ahead  of  time.  Broil  steak  on  one 
side  and  attach  to  plank  with  wire  tacks  and  broil  in  gas  range 
10  minutes  to  each  pound  of  meat.  Garnish  with  potato  roses, 
peas  and  asparagus. 

Broiled  Steak 

Select  thick,  fat  steak,  trim  edges  and  remove  bone,  if 
large.  Skewer  into  shape,  have  broiler  very  hot  and  sear  the 
surface  of  the  meat  quickly.  Finish  broiling  more  slowly, 
allowing  about  10  minutes  for  steak  an  inch  thick.  Place  on 
warm  platter,  pour  over  part  of  fat,  season,  garnish  and  serve. 
A  mushroom  sauce  may  be  served  with  the  steak. 

Scrambled  Brains 

2  sets  of  calves'  brains  3  eggs 

1  tb.  butter  }4  c.  cream 

Remove  skin  and  membrane  and  cleanse  thoroughly.  Put 
1  tablespoonful  butter  in  frying  pan  and  let  bubble.  Cook 
brains  and  when  hot  through  add  the  cream  and  let  boil, 
mashing  with  fork.  When  cooked,  add  eggs  well  beaten, 
pepper  and  salt.  Stir  as  scrambled  eggs  and  serve  immedi- 
ately. 

Lamb  Chops  (Broiled) 

Put  1  tablespoonful  crisco  in  frying  pan  and  broil  lamb 
chops  (from  which  all  fat  has  been  trimmed)  until  brown  on 
both  sides.  Season  with  salt  and  pepper,  garnish  with  sliced 
lemon  and  parsley. 

Lamb  Chops  (Fried) 

Trim  chops  and  dip  in  beaten  egg,  season,  roll  in  bread 
crumbs  and  fry  in  deep  fat.     Garnish  with  lettuce  hearts. 

Baked  Stufifed  Heart 

1  beef  heart,  or  2  calves*  1  tb.  chopped  parsley 

hearts  }4  tb.  crisco  or  drippings 

2  c.  bread  crumbs  Salt  and  pepper  to  taste 

Carefully  remove  all  membranes  and  veins  from  the  inside 
of  the  heart,  and  let  it  stand  on  its  base  in  salted  water  for 
}4  hour  to  draw  out  the  blood.     Then  wipe  it  dry  and  stuff  it. 

44 


Meats 

Add  to  the  bread-crumbs  with  the  parsley,  salt,  pepper  and  2 
tablespoonfuls  water.  Stuff  the  heart  tight  and  tie  a  bread 
crust  across  the  top  to  keep  in  the  stuffing.  Baste  often  with 
fat  and  bake  in  a  moderate  oven.  Calves'  hearts  will  require 
1}4  hours  and  a  beef  heart  2  hours.  Make  a  gravy  with  the 
drippings  in  the  pan.     This  is  good  either  hot  or  cold. 

Swiss  Steak 

Round  steak  is  used  for  this  dish  and  should  be  cut  2  inches 
thick.  For  a  slice  weighing  2  pounds  use  ^4  cup  of  flour, 
mixed  well  with  salt  and  pepper,  and  pound  the  flour  well  into 
the  meat  with  a  wooden  potato  masher.  Heat  >^  cup  of  meat 
fat  and  brown  the  meat  on  each  side;  add  a  cup  of  sliced 
onions,  simmer  for  10  minutes  and  then  add  about  3  cups  of 
boiling  water.  Cook  10  minutes  and  place  in  fireless  cooker 
for  2  hours.  Serve  with  potatoes  cut  into  quarters  lengthwise, 
boiled,  rolled  in  melted  butter  and  covered  with  minced 
parsley. 

Beef  Tongue 

Wash  a  fresh  tongue,  cover  with  boiling  water  and  cook 
gently  over  simmering  burner  about  1^  hours.  Remove  all 
skin  and  unsightly  portions  and  place  in  casserole  with  a  cup- 
ful of  sliced  carrots,  also  minced  onion,  celery  and  parsley. 
Add  stock  enough  to  cover  the  vegetables,  season  well  and 
place  in  a  moderate  oven.  Remove  cover  of  casserole  after  an 
hour's  cooking  and  allow  ^  hour  to  brown  slightly.  Make  a 
brown  sauce  to  serve  with  the  tongue,  to  which  add  2  table- 
spoons each  of  vinegar  and  chopped  pickle. 

Roast  Lamb 

Select  firm  meat,  well  surrounded  with  fat,  and  wipe  sur- 
face with  a  damp  cloth.  Heat  gas  oven  full  10  minutes  before 
using,  then  place  meat  under  flame,  and  turn  occasionally  until 
each  side  is  crisped.  Season  lightly,  reduce  heat  and  baste 
every  15  minutes  with  the  fat  in  the  pan.  Allow  1}^  hours  for 
a  5-pound  roast,  cooked  medium. 

Barbecued  Ham 

Cut  canned  lunch  ham  into  smooth  slices.  Put  into  a 
saucepan  a  generous  tablespoonful  of  butter,  and,  when  this  is 
melted,  lay  the  sliced  ham  in  it.     Leave  until  the  meat  is 

45 


Meats 

smoking  hot,  and  beginning  to  get  crisp.  Transfer  to  a  heated 
platter  and  keep  hot  while  you  add  to  the  grease  in  the  pan  2 
tablespoonfuls  of  vinegar,  a  teaspoonful  of  sugar,  ^  teaspoon- 
ful  of  French  mustard,  a  dash  of  paprika  and  last  of  all  2  table- 
spoonfuls  of  sherry.  Stir  to  the  boiling  point,  pour  over  the 
fried  ham  and  serve. 

Veal  Chops  en  Casserole 

Wipe  6  veal  chops  very  carefully,  to  remove  bits  of  bone 
if  present;  roll  in  flour  and  saute  in  hot  fat  until  nicely  browned 
on  both  sides.  Remove  to  a  casserole.  Heat  1  cup  of  broth 
or  water,  ^  cup  of  tomato  puree  and  macaroni  to  the  boiling 
point  and  pour  over  the  chops.  Add  also  ^  teaspoonful,  each, 
of  salt  and  pepper.  Have  ready  }4  dozen  onions  cooked  }4 
hour  and  rinsed  in  cold  water;  dry  these  on  a  cloth  and  let 
brown  in  a  little  crisco  melted  in  the  frying  pan;  add  these 
to  the  casserole,  cover  and  let  cook  very  gently  about  an  hour. 

Tongue  Braised 

Boil  a  fresh  beef  tongue  slowly  for  2  hours,  then  skin  it  and 
put  it  in  a  casserole;  melt  3  tablespoonfuls  of  butter;  add  3 
heaping  tablespoonfuls  of  flour  and  brown;  add  1  pint  of  water 
in  which  the  tongue  was  cooked  and  1  pint  of  stewed  and 
strained  tomatoes;  beat  until  smooth  and  thick;  add  ^2  carrot 
and  1  onion  chopped  fine,  J/2  tablespoon  of  Worcestershire 
sauce,  1  saltspoonful  of  pepper;  pour  over  tongue,  cover  and 
simmer  in  the  oven  for  2  hours.  Serve  on  platter  with  sauce 
strained  and  poured  over  it. 

Pressed  Veal 

Put  4  pounds  of  veal  in  a  pot,  cover  with  water,  stew  slowly 
till  meat  drops  from  bones,  chop  fine,  let  liquor  boil  down  to  a 
cupful,  put  in  ^2  cup  crisco  or  drippings,  mix  with  meat,  table- 
spoonful  pepper,  pinch  of  allspice  and  1  beaten  egg.  Stir  well 
through  meat,  pour  liquor  over,  stir,  put  in  mold,  press.  Slice 
thin  when  cold. 

Veal  Cutlets 

Use  slices  of  veal  }4  inch  thick.  Boil  slowly  until  tender. 
Toward  end  of  boiling  add  small  amount  of  salt  to  season.  Cut 
veal  in  pieces,  dredge  in  flour,  seasoned  with  salt  and  pepper. 

46 


Meats 

Dip  in  egg,  then  roll  in  crumbs.  Fry  in  deep  crisco  hot  enough 
to  turn  a  crumb  of  bread  a  golden  brown  in  40  seconds.  Drain 
on  paper.      Serve  hot  with  sauce. 

Veal  Cutlets 

Trim  cutlets  and  dip  in  slightly  beaten  egg,  then  roll  in 
bread  crumbs,  seasoned  with  pepper  and  salt.  Fry  in  deep 
crisco  hot  enough  to  turn  a  crumb  of  bread  a  golden  brown  in 
60  seconds.     Drain  on  paper. 

Veal  Souffle 

Melt  J4  cupful  of  crisco,  add  ^  cupful  of  flour  and  stir  until 
well  blended;  then  pour  on  gradually  2  cupfuls  of  scalded  milk. 
Bring  to  the  boiling  point  and  add  ^  cupful  of  stale  bread 
crumbs,  1  teaspoon  of  salt  and  ys  teaspoon  of  pepper,  and  let 
simmer  2  minutes.  Remove  from  fire  and  add  2  cupfuls  of 
cold  cooked  veal,  finely  chopped,  1  tablespoon  of  finely  chopped 
parsley  and  the  yolks  of  3  eggs,  beaten  until  thick  and  lemon- 
colored;  then  cut  and  fold  in  the  whites  of  3  eggs,  beaten  until 
stiff  and  dry.  Turn  into  buttered  individual  molds  set  in  a 
pan  of  hot  water  or  a  buttered  pudding  dish,  cover  with  but- 
tered paper,  and  bake  in  a  slow  oven  until  firm.  Remove  from 
molds,  garnish  and  pour  around  a  white  mushroom  sauce. 

Veal  Loaf 

2  lbs.  veal  ground  in  meat  ^  t.  ground  cloves 

chopper  Pinch  sage 

2  oz.  pork  J4  c.  crisco  or  dripping 
1  t.  minced  onion  2  eggs 

1  t.  salt  1  c.  bread  crumbs 

Add  crisco  to  chopped  meat;  season  with  spices;  add  bread 
crumbs  and  put  together  with  well  beaten  eggs.  Place  into 
well  criscoed  pan;  steam  for  2  hours.  If  open  oven  is  used, 
place  the  pan  containing  the  veal  loaf  in  larger  vessel  contain- 
ing 1  cupful  of  water,  to  prevent  crust  being  formed.  Bake  1 
hour.  Serve  on  platter  garnished  with  water-cress  and  tomato 
sauce. 

Veal  Loaf 

Three  pounds  of  chopped  veal,  ^4  pound  of  pork,  1  table- 
spoonful  of  pepper  and  1  of  salt,  8  tablespoonfuls  rolled  crack- 
ers, 6  tablespoonfuls  of  cream,  butter  size  of  an  egg,  2  eggs, 
press  hard  in  a  pudding  dish,  bake  2  hours,  slice  thin  and  serve 
cold. 

47 


Meats 

Roast  Veal 

The  fillet  makes  an  especially  nice  roast.  Have  the  bones 
removed  and  stuff.  Tie  carefully  in  shape;  season  highly  with 
salt  and  pepper,  dredge  with  flour  and  lay  slices  of  pork  on  top. 
Scatter  a  little  flour  over  the  bottom  of  the  pan  and  cook  over 
a  medium  flame  without  adding  water,  until  this  flour  has 
browned.  Then  add  a  little  water  and  baste  often.  Place  a 
buttered  paper  over  it  when  it  is  sufficiently  browned.  Allow 
^2  hour  to  a  pound,  as  veal  must  be  well  done  to  be  wholesome. 

Veal  Cutlets  a  la  Mode 

Take  7  veal  cutlets,  sprinkle  juice  of  ^4  lemon.  Put  in  pan 
on  top  of  stove  with  a  tablespoonful  of  crisco.  Sprinkle  with 
salt  and  pepper,  2  stalks  of  celery,  1  stick  of  summer  savory, 
1  bay  leaf,  1  small  onion.  Set  on  back  of  stove  with  ^  cup 
of  cold  water,  cover  tightly  and  let  simmer  for  2}4  hours. 

Dressing 

Two  cups  of  cracker  crumbs  to  1  of  bread  crumbs.  Salt 
and  pepper  to  taste. 

Boston  Brown  Hash 

Chop  any  remains  of  steaks,  roast  or  stews  very  fine. 
Grease  a  deep  pie-dish.  Put  a  layer  of  mashed  potatoes  (cold 
ones,  left  over,  will  answer)  in  the  bottom  of  the  dish,  then  a 
layer  of  meat,  then  a  layer  of  stale  bread  crumbs;  sprinkle  with 
salt  and  pepper,  a  bit  of  butter;  moisten  with  ^  cup  of  beef 
gravy,  then  another  layer  of  potatoes.  Dip  a  knife  into  milk 
and  smooth  the  top.  Bake  in  a  moderate  oven  until  brown. 
Serve  hot. 

Veal  Toast 

Into  a  saucepan  put  1  cupful  of  chopped  veal,  a  cup  of  hot 
water,  a  piece  of  butter  the  size  of  a  walnut,  }4  teaspoonful  of 
salt  and  a  pinch  of  pepper.  Let  boil  up  once  and  serve  on 
slices  of  buttered  toast. 

Braised  Shoulder  of  Lamb 

Bone  a  shoulder  of  lamb,  leave  knuckle  and  fill  cavity  with 
a  stuflang.     Place  in  a  deep  pan.     Cook  5  minutes  in  ^  cup 

48 


Meats 

butter  a  slice  of  onion,  carrot  and  turnip  cut  In  small  pieces, 
}4  bay  leaf,  a  sprig  of  thyme  and  one  of  parsley.  Add  3  cups 
hot  water,  salt  and  12  peppercorns;  pour  over  lamb.  Cover 
closely  and  cook  in  medium  oven  for  2  hours,  uncovering  for 
the  last  ^2  hour.  Remove  to  hot  platter.  Strain  liquid  in 
pan  and  thicken  with  4  tablespoons  flour  browned  with  3 
tablespoons  butter.     There  should  be  1^  cups  of  the  sauce. 

Croquettes 

Cook  }4  tablespoonful  of  finely  chopped  onion,  in  2  table- 
spoonfuls  of  crisco  5  minutes,  stirring  constantly.  Add  ^ 
cupful  of  flour  and  stir  until  well  blended;  then  pour  on  gradu- 
ally, while  stirring  constantly,  1  cupful  of  stock.  Bring  to 
the  boiling  point  and  add  1  cupful  of  cold  roast  lamb  cut  in 
small  cubes,  and  %  cupful  of  small  cold  boiled  potato  cubes. 
Simmer  until  meat  and  potato  have  absorbed  sauce.  Add 
1  teaspoonful  of  finely  chopped  parsley  and  season  with  salt 
and  pepper.  Spread  on  a  shallow  plate  to  cool.  Shape  in  the 
form  of  croquettes,  dip  in  crumbs,  egg,  and  crumbs;  fry  in  deep 
fat  and  drain.     Serve  with  tomato  sauce. 

Creole  Brains 

Scald  brains  for  a  few  minutes  in  salted  boiling  water,  when 
cool  cut  in  3^-inch  slices  and  roll  in  meal  or  cracker  crumbs; 
fry  a  light  brown  in  deep  fat  and  serve  with  Creole  Sauce. 

Creamed  Lamb  with  Nuts 

2  c.  chopped  cold  lamb  }4  c.  chopped  English  walnuts 

1  c.  cold  boiled  potatoes,  diced  2  c.  white  sauce 

Mix  together  and  heat.  Season  with  salt  and  pepper  and 
add  2  tablespoonfuls  of  chopped  parsley. 

Mock  Venison 

One  leg  of  lamb — boned  and  lightly  corded — season  with 
pepper,  salt  and  ginger.  Take  a  crock  or  jar,  make  a  bed  of 
onion  juice,  bay  leaf,  few  cloves,  take  out  of  pot  enough  vin- 
egar scalded  to  cover  lamb.  Set  lamb  in  crock,  turning  every 
day  for  a  week  or  ten  days  to  keep  all  sides  in  the  vinegar. 
Take  lamb  from  the  pickle  and  roast  as  you  would  any  other 
meat  ^  hour  before  serving  time.  Make  gravy  of  sour  cream 
and  flour. 

49 


Meats 


Broiled  Pigs'  Feet 


Clean  thoroughly  6  or  12  feet.  Place  them  in  a  stone  crock 
between  layers  of  table  salt,  also  good  layer  of  salt  on  top  and 
bottom  of  crock.  Lay  this  aside  for  3  or  4  days,  then  wash 
again  to  remove  the  salt,  boil  them  until  they  are  almost  free 
from  the  bone.  Then  scald  enough  vinegar  to  cover  the 
amount  of  feet,  add  about  5  cents  worth  of  horse-radish  root, 
chopped  not  grated,  3  tablespoons  of  mustard  seed  to  every  3 
feet  you  boil.  Lay  this  aside  for  3  or  4  days.  Then  they  are 
pickled  and  can  be  eaten  just  as  they  are,  or  split  each  foot  and 
dip  in  salted  cracker  meal  and  broil  carefully.  They  are 
delicious. 

Stewed  Pigs'  Feet 

Eight  pigs'  feet,  1  pint  tomatoes,  1  teaspoonful  chopped 
onion,  1  cupful  boiling  water,  1  bay  leaf,  1  tablespoonful  of 
butter,  ^2  tablespoonful  flour.  Boil  pigs'  feet  with  bay  leaf 
and  salt  until  tender;  take  out  bones  and  cut  meat  in  small 
pieces;  heat  butter  and  flour,  onions,  tomatoes  and  water, 
cook  about  15  minutes,  then  add  pigs'  feet,  season  with  chili 
powder  and  cook  ^  hour  longer. 

Hamburg  Beef  with  Macaroni,  Creole  Style 

Cook  ^2  pound  of  macaroni  in  rapidly  boiling  salted  water 
until  it  is  tender.  The  time  required  will  be  about  20  minutes. 
Let  3  cups  of  canned  tomatoes,  ^  cup  finely  sliced  onion 
and  ^2  green  pepper  pod,  finely  chopped,  simmer  until  the 
onion  is  tender.  Cook  1  pound  of  round  steak,  preferably 
from  the  top  of  the  round,  chopped  fine,  in  a  hot  frying  pan, 
stirring  constantly  until  the  meat  changes  color,  then  add 
it  to  the  tomato  mixture;  drain  the  macaroni,  rinse  in  cold 
water  and  drain  again;  pour  over  it  a  cup  of  grated  cheese  and 
J4  cup  of  butter.  Lift  the  macaroni  with  a  spoon  and  fork  to 
mix  it  with  the  butter  and  cheese,  sprinkHng  it  meanwhile  with 
a  little  salt;  then  turn  it  into  the  dish  with  the  meat  and  to- 
mato mixture.  Toss  again  with  the  spoon  and  fork,  and  serve 
at  once  on  hot  dish. 

Stuffed  Calves'  Hearts 

Wash  well  two  hearts  and  remove  the  tough  central  por- 
tion. Crumb  2  slices  of  bread,  add  teaspoonful  of  melted 
butter.     Onion  or  parsley  may  also  be  added.     Stuff  into  the 

SO 


Meats 

hearts,  sew  up  the  tops,  and  stand  in  a  saucepan  with  a  pint  of 
hot  water.  Cover,  and  simmer  1  hour.  Then  put  in  a  baking- 
pan;  add  water;  bake  1  hour,  basting  once  or  twice.  Serve 
with  brown  sauce. 

Coddled  Steak 

Take  round  or  the  cheaper  cuts  of  steak.  Cover  the  bottom 
of  a  pan  with  a  thin  layer  of  dry  bread  crumbs,  then  add  layer 
of  steak,  salt,  cover  with  crumbs.  Add  alternate  layers  of 
steak  and  crumbs,  salt  each  layer  of  meat.  A  little  minced 
onion  or  powdered  sage  may  be  added  if  desired.  Place  in 
cooker  and  steam  until  tender.  Will  require  45  minutes  to 
2  hours,  according  to  the  amount  and  quality  of  meat. 

Beef  Steak  and  Oysters 

Broil  a  very  thick  steak  15  minutes.  Put  some  oysters  in 
a  hot  pan  without  any  broth,  stir  over  the  fire  briskly  a  few 
minutes,  salt  the  steak  and  sprinkle  with  chili  powder  (not  too 
strong),  then  cover  the  steak  with  the  oysters;  bake  in  hot 
oven  15  minutes.  Remove  the  platter,  keeping  the  oysters  on 
top  of  the  steak. 

Stanley  Steaks 

Chop  fine  1  pound  of  lean  round  of  beef.  Season  with  a 
teaspoonful  of  salt  and  a  dash  of  pepper.  Peel  4  bananas, 
put  them  in  a  porcelain  dish,  pour  over  2  tablespoonfuls  of 
butter,  and  bake  in  a  quick  oven  J/2  hour,  until  brown.  Form 
the  meat  into  4  or  5  flat  cakes,  with  thick  edges.  Broil  or 
bake  them  in  a  quick  oven.  Rub  together  2  tablespoonfuls 
of  butter  and  2  of  flour;  add  a  cupful  of  cold  milk;  stir  until 
boiling;  add  a  saltspoonful  of  salt  and  3  tablespoonfuls  of 
evaporated  or  fresh  horse-radish.  Pour  this  sauce  in  the  meat 
platter,  stand  in  the  steaks,  put  a  banana  on  each,  and  serve. 

Corn  and  Meat  Croquettes 

Take  cold  meat  of  any  kind,  left  over  from  previous  meals, 
sufficient  to  make  a  quart,  add  a  cupful  of  canned  corn  and 
chop  or  grind  all  fine;  now  add  1  cupful  bread  crumbs,  salt  and 
add  chili  powder  to  taste.  Mix  together  and  if  not  moist 
enough  add  gravy  or  water  into  cakes,     Fry  in  crisco. 

51 


Meats 

Pigs  in  Blankets 

Wash  and  wipe  as  many  large  oysters  as  you  require.  Have 
the  same  number  of  slices  of  thin  bacon;  roll  one  around  each 
oyster  and  fasten  with  a  small  wooden  toothpick.  Put  them 
into  a  frying  pan  and  cook  until  the  bacon  is  crisp.  Serve  on 
a  very  hot  platter. 

Tripe,  Mexican  Style 

Take  tripe  after  it  has  been  well  cleaned  and  put  to  boil  in 
1  quart  of  hot  water  until  tender;  add  1  or  2  buttons  of  garlic 
chopped  fine;  1  or  2  tablespoonfuls  of  chili  powder,  1  can  of 
hominy;  stir  well  and  let  boil  until  done.     Serve  hot. 


Stuffing 

To  each  cupful  of  dry  bread  crumbs  salted  to  taste  add  a 
little  sage  and  ^  teaspoonful  of  chili  powder  and  1  tablespoon- 
ful  of  melted  butter.  To  this  may  be  added,  if  desired,  a 
small  chopped  onion,  a  tablespoonful  of  mashed  potatoes  and 
]/2  button  of  garlic  chopped  fine  or  a  few  raw  oysters.  When 
thoroughly  mixed  stuff  the  roast  or  fowl  and  bake  or  roast. 


Sweetbreads 

Delicious  in  many  ways  if  carefully  prepared.  Beef  sweet- 
breads are  one-half  the  price  of  calves'  and  one  can  scarcely 
tell  the  difference  when  well  cleaned.  As  soon  as  received 
from  butcher,  drop  in  cold  water  and  change  several  times. 
Clean  by  removing  pipes  and  membranes.  Put  on  in  cold 
water  to  cover  and  juice  of  }4  lemonT  Cook  slowly  about  20 
minutes.  Plunge  them  in  ice  water  to  make  firm.  This  is 
the  preliminary  step  to  be  taken,  however  the  sweetbreads  are 
to  be  used.  When  brittle  again  remove  any  membrane  over- 
looked at  first. 

Fried  Sweetbreads 

Cut  cleaned  sweetbreads  in  strips,  dust  them,  flour,  salt 
and  pepper  and  fry  golden  brown  in  hot  crisco.  Make  cream 
gravy  of  }4  cup  cream  and  a  tablespoon  flour  to  drippings  in 
pan  and  stir  until  smooth. 

52 


Meats 


Sweetbread  Croquettes 


Two  pounds  of  calves*  sweetbreads,  parboiled,  cleaned, 
chilled  and  chopped  fine  and  pour  over  them  pint  of  white 
sauce.  Add  1  cup  bread  crumbs,  tablespoonful  parsley,  1  egg. 
Mold  in  pear  shape,  dip  in  egg,  roll  in  cracker  crumbs  and  fry- 
in  deep  fat.     Garnish  with  parsley. 

Cream  Sweetbreads  in  Timbales 

Blanch  sweetbreads  and  dice.  Make  1  pint  white  sauce. 
Mix  sweetbreads  and  mushrooms  and  cover  with  the  sauce 
and  let  stand  over  hot  water.  Add  blanched  almonds  and 
serve  in  timbale  molds. 

Broiled  Sweetbreads 

Split  the  sweetbreads,  sprinkle  with  seasoned  flour  and  dip 
in  melted  butter,  boil  10  minutes  over  hot  fire  or  in  gas  stove, 
turning  constantly.     Serve  with  cream  gravy. 

Creamed  Sweetbreads 

Boil  sweetbreads,  cut  them  in  small  dice  and  stew  in  small 
amount  of  water  until  tender,  quarter  can  of  mushrooms  and 
boil  in  liquor  for  ^  hour,  drain  both  sweetbreads  and  mush- 
rooms, put  together  with  cream  sauce.  Serve  on  toast  or  in 
timbale  molds. 


53 


CHAPTER  VIII 

POULTRY  AND   GAME 

To  determine  the  age  of  poultry,  examine  the  feet  and 
cartilage  at  the  end  of  the  breastbone.  If  both  are  soft  it  is 
a  young  chicken;  if  hard,  a  fowl  of  more  than  a  year's  age. 

To  prepare  a  bird  for  cooking,  singe  it  by  holding  over  a 
flame  and  turning  it  until  hairs  are  removed.  Remove  pin 
feathers.  Cut  the  skin  around  the  leg  an  inch  and  a  half 
below  the  leg  joint,  taking  care  not  to  cut  the  tendons,  then 
place  leg  at  that  point  over  the  edge  of  a  board  or  table  and 
snap  the  bone;  then  pull  ofF  foot  and  tendons.  In  a  fowl 
tendons  may  have  to  be  pulled  one  at  a  time.  Make  a  cut 
below  the  breastbone  and  remove  the  entrails,  heart,  gizzard 
and  liver.  Remove  gall  bladder  from  liver.  Remove  the 
lungs  from  either  side  of  backbone  and  the  kidneys,  which  lie 
near  the  hollow.  Remove  windpipe  from  neck  and  crop.  Cut 
ofF  the  neck  close  to  the  body,  leaving  the  skin.  Remove  oil- 
bag.  Wash  outside  carefully  and  run  water  through  the 
inside  to  cleanse  it.  The  heart,  liver  and  gizzard  are  called 
giblets.  Remove  veins  and  blood  from  heart  and  fat  and 
membrane  from  gizzard.  Cut  through  the  thick  part  of 
gizzard  and  remove  the  part  inside.  Wash  giblets  and  neck 
and  cook  together  in  a  little  water. 

Roast  Chicken 

Having  dressed  a  chicken,  stuff  it.  Truss  it  by  crossing 
the  drumsticks,  tying  them  with  a  long  string  and  then 
tying  to  the  tail.  Fasten  the  wings  close  to  the  body  with 
a  skewer  and  draw  the  skin  at  the  neck  under  the  back 
and  pin  with  another  skewer.  Then  turn  the  bird  on  its 
breast  and  draw  string  which  is  fastened  to  tail  around  skewers, 
fasten  it  and  cut  it.  Rub  chicken  with  salt  and  rub  breast 
and  legs  with  butter  and  flour  worked  together.  Place  in 
pan  and  sprinkle  bottom  of  pan  with  flour.  Place  in  oven 
over  a  medium  flame  till  flour  is  browned.  Then  lower  the 
oven  and  baste  often.  Melt  butter  half  the  size  of  an  egg  in 
^  cup  hot  water  and  use  it  for  basting  while  it  lasts.  Then 
use  fat  in  the  pan.  Turn  bird  occasionally  that  it  may  brown 
alike  on  all  sides.     Cook  until  breast  meat  is  tender, 

54 


Poultry  and  Game 

Chicken  a  la  Stanley 

When  the  chicken  has  been  cut  up,  season  the  pieces  with 
salt  and  pepper.  Place  them  in  a  shallow  saucepan  in  which 
you  have  heated  2  tablespoonfuls  of  crisco.  As  soon  as  the 
meat  has  begun  to  cook,  but  has  not  taken  a  color,  add  3 
medium-sized  onions,  chopped  fine,  and  a  tablespoonful  of 
curry.  Cover  the  saucepan  and  let  it  cook  on  a  very  gentle 
fire.  As  soon  as  the  pieces  of  chicken  are  cooked  remove  them 
and  put  them  in  a  deep  earthenware  dish,  or  any  other  suitable 
deep  dish.  Keep  the  chicken  hot  and  add  to  the  onions  which 
have  remained  in  the  saucepan  a  glass  of  fresh  cream.  Let 
this  simmer  for  7  to  8  minutes  and  then  pass  the  mixture 
through  a  strainer  and  put  it  into  another  saucepan.  Heat 
this  puree  well  and  pour  it  over  the  chicken. 

Some  truffles  peeled  with  care  and  cut  in  slices  may  be  added 
to  the  sauce,  and  will  greatly  increase  the  richness  of  the  dish. 

Chicken  Stewed  with  Dumplings 

Cut  up  and  lay  in  salt  and  water,  then  put  on  the  fire  with 
water  enough  to  cover  and  some  slices  of  bacon. 

When  the  chicken  is  thoroughly  tender,  put  in  some  dump- 
lings, made  like  biscuit  but  rolled  thinner.  Lay  them  over 
the  top  of  the  stew  and  cover  tightly,  boil  until  done — about 
15  minutes. 

Mix  a  tablespoonful  of  crisco  in  a  tablespoonful  of  flour,  or 
less  if  not  liked  very  thick;  add  salt  and  pepper  to  taste,  a 
little  parsley  and  celery,  or  celery  seed.  Put  this  in  the  gravy 
and  when  it  has  thickened  pour  in  a  teacupful  of  cream  or 
milk  and  let  it  boil  up  once.     Take  off  the  fire  and  serve  hot. 

How  to  Cook  a  Turkey 

A  turkey  should  be  killed  at  least  two  or  three  days  before 
cooking.  This  can  be  easily  done,  as  the  turkey  season 
always  begins  the  last  of  November  and  ends  the  latter  part 
of  the  winter.  Wash  thoroughly  when  ready  to  cook,  not 
before,  as  they  are  not  apt  to  keep  after  having  water  used 
about  them.  After  they  have  been  washed,  dry  with  a  cloth, 
rub  a  little  butter  over  them,  salt  and  pepper,  and  sift  a  little 
flour  over  them  to  make  brown  nicely.  Some  hot  water  should 
be  put  in  the  pan,  with  salt  and  pepper  and  a  little  butter  to 
use  for  basting. 

55 


Poultry  and  Game 

The  stuffing  is  a  matter  of  taste,  for,  although  chestnuts 
are  the  regulation  stuffing  for  Thanksgiving  Day,  some  prefer 
a  little  onion,  oysters,  etc.  One  thing  should  be  observed, 
however,  never  to  fill  a  fowl  entirely  full,  as  the  bread  that  is 
used  always  swells,  and  consequently  the  stuffing  is  pasty. 

Chestnut  Stuffing  for  the  Thanksgiving  Turkey 

Shell  50  chestnuts,  blanch  them  and  boil  in  salted  water 
until  tender;  chop  fine  and  mix  with  half  the  amount  of  bread 
crumbs,  season  highly  with  salt  and  pepper,  and  moisten  with 
melted  butter. 

Roast  Turkey 

Dress  the  turkey  carefully  and  rub  thoroughly  inside  and 
out  with  salt  and  pepper.  Stuff  with  a  dressing  prepared  as 
follows:  take  a  loaf  of  stale  bread,  cut  off  crust  and  soften  by 
placing  in  a  pan,  pouring  on  warm  water  (never  boiling),  squeez- 
ing out  with  the  hand  all  the  water;  add  }4  pound  of  melted 
butter  and  a  teaspoon  of  salt  and  ^  teaspoon  of  pepper;  drain 
off  liquor  from  a  quart  of  oysters,  bring  to  a  boil,  skim,  and 
pour  over  the  bread  crumbs;  mix  all  thoroughly  and,  if  dry, 
moisten  with  a  little  sweet  milk;  jastly,  add  the  oysters,  being 
careful  not  to  break  them. 

Sew  up  the  openings,  spread  the  turkey  over  with  butter, 
salt  and  pepper,  place  in  a  dripping-pan  in  a  well  heated  oven, 
add  }4  pint  of  hot  water,  and  roast,  basting  often.  Turn  until 
nicely  browned  on  all  sides,  and  about  ^2  hour  before  it  is  done, 
baste  with  butter  and  dredge  with  a  little  flour. 

When  making  the  gravy,  if  there  is  much  fat  in  the  pan 
pour  off  most  of  it  and  add  the  chopped  giblets  previously 
boiled  until  tender,  and  the  liquor  in  which  they  were  cooked; 
place  1  heaping  tablespoon  of  flour  in  a  pint  cup,  mix  smooth 
with  a  little  cream;  fill  up  cup  with  rich  milk,  and  add  to  the 
gravy  in  the  pan;  boil  several  minutes,  stirring  constantly, 
and  pour  into  sauce  bowl.     Serve  with  cranberry  sauce. 

Roast  Goose 

Singe,  draw,  wash,  stuff  and  truss  a  goose.  Dredge  with 
flour  and  salt,  and  lay  strips  of  fat  pork  over  the  breast.  Roast 
in  a  hot  oven  2  hours,  basting  frequently  with  butter  and  hot 
water. 

56 


Poultry  and  Game 


Stuffing 


Chop  finely  2  onions,  mix  with  J4  cupful  of  finely  chopped 
pork,  and  combine  with  2  cupfuls  of  hot  mashed  potato  and 
1}4  cupfuls  of  soft,  stale  bread  crumbs.  Add  }^  cupful  of 
butter,  1  beaten  egg,  1}4  teaspoonfuls  of  salt,  1  teaspoonful 
of  sage,  and  yi  teaspoonful  of  black  pepper. 

Russian  Apple  Stuffing  for  Roast  Goose 

Chop  2  cupfuls  of  tart  apples,  greenings  or  Baldwins  pre- 
ferred, with  1  cupful  of  seeded  raisins.  Stuff  goose  and  truss 
as  usual.     The  flavor  is  delicious  and  quite  different. 

Grouse 

Pluck  with  care  not  to  tear  the  skin.  Draw  and  wipe,  but 
do  not  wash.  Cut  off  the  head  and  truss  like  fowl.  They 
are  much  improved  by  larding,  but  if  that  is  not  convenient 
fasten  thin  slices  of  salt  pork  all  over  the  breast  and  thighs. 
Baste  every  5  minutes.  About  10  minutes  before  taking  up 
lay  a  thick  slice  of  toast  under  each  and  serve  on  this.  Fry 
coarse  bread  crumbs  till  brown  in  butter  and  strew  them 
on  the  platter  or  over  the  bird.  Send  either  bread  sauce  or 
brown  gravy  to  table  with  them.  The  Scotch  fashion  is  to 
put  3  tablespoons  of  butter  into  each  bird  instead  of  larding  it. 
Parboil  the  liver  and  pound  it  to  a  paste  with  butter,  salt  and 
cayenne  and  use  this  to  spread  on  the  toast  on  which  the  birds 
are  to  be  served. 

Potted  Grouse 

Prepare  as  if  for  roasting;  season  rather  highly  and  put 
plenty  of  butter  inside,  pack  them  in  a  deep  pie-dish  and  dot 
butter  on  top.  Pour  over  a  small  glass  of  claret  for  each  pair 
of  birds  and  tie  two  or  three  folds  of  buttered  paper  over. 
Bake  in  a  moderate  oven  1  hour.  Pack  them  by  twos  in  small 
pots,  cover  with  clarified  butter  and  set  away  to  keep  till 
wanted.  They  will  keep  for  three  or  four  weeks  and  are 
excellent  for  breakfast  or  lunch. 

Fillets  of  Grouse 

If  the  birds  are  badly  shot  to  pieces  or  much  disfigured  in 
dressing,  it  is  sometimes  better  to  serve  them  filleted.  After 
they  have  been  removed  separate  the  large  from  the  small 
fillet.     Season  them  with  salt  and  pepper  and  dip  them  in  a 

5  57 


Poultry  and  Game 

mixture  of  1  tablespoon  chopped  parsley,  1  tablespoon  lemon 
juice  and  }4  cup  melted  butter.  Let  the  butter  cool  on  them, 
then  dip  in  a  beaten  egg,  then  in  bread  crumbs  and  fry  in  deep, 
hot  fat.     Six  minutes  is  enough  for  the  large. 

Canvas-back,  Red -head  and  Mallard 

Should  be  carefully  picked,  singed,  drawn  and  wiped  with  a 
wet  cloth,  trussed  with  the  neck  twisted  around  to  close  the 
opening  in  the  breast,  and  the  rump  turned  down  to  close  the 
opening  through  which  it  was  drawn.  Season  with  salt  and 
roast  rare  from  18  to  25  minutes.  Place  them  on  a  hot  dish 
and  put  a  tablespoon  of  cold  water  inside  to  prevent  the 
coagulation  of  the  juice.  Send  a  glass  of  currant  jelly  or  wild 
plum  jelly  to  table  with  it,  or  serve  with  essence  of  celery. 

Red -head,  Teal  or  Widgeon  Broiled 

After  cleaning,  split  down  the  back  and  flatten  a  little  with 
a  heavy  cleaver.  Pare  off  the  neck,  pinions  and  ends  of  the 
legs,  baste  well  with  butter  and  broil  rare  over  a  quick  fire. 
Dish  on  dry  toast.  Melt  2  tablespoons  of  maitre  d'hotel 
butter  with  a  little  brown  gravy,  pour  it  over  the  ducks  and 
serve  with  any  sharply  acid  jelly,  or  orange,  or  olive  sauce. 

Teal 

Teal  when  roasted  sometimes  has  a  plain,  dry  stuflRng  as  for 
chicken.  Sometimes  it  is  filled  with  a  chopped  onion  and 
celery  stuffing.  Serve  with  slices  of  fried  hominy  and  water- 
cress or  with  green  grape  jelly. 

Fillets  of  Widgeon 

Roast  quick  and  rare  4  widgeons;  slip  oflF  the  fillets  with 
a  sharp  knife,  lay  them  on  pieces  of  buttered  toast  and  place 
in  a  dish  sprinkled  with  Parmesan  cheese;  place  2  fillets  of 
anchovy  on  each  fillet  of  duck,  sprinkle  with  more  cheese, 
grated  bread  crumbs,  chopped  parsley  and  melted  butter. 
Bake  in  very  hot  oven  about  2  minutes.  Squeeze  the  juice 
of  2  lemons  over  and  serve  hot. 

Chicken,  Southern  Style 

Disjoint  "frying  size"  chicken  night  before  using.  Let 
stand  in  cold  water  for  hour  before  cooking.     When  ready  to 

58 


Poultry  and  Game 

use  wipe  off  with  cloth.  Sprinkle  with  salt  and  pepper  and 
flour.  Dip  in  well  beaten  egg,  roll  in  cracker  or  toast  crumbs, 
fry  in  deep  fat.  Place  in  dripping-pan  and  cover,  place  in 
oven  for  15  minutes,  after  which  remove  cover  and  allow  to 
become  crisp  and  brown.  If  desired,  pour  the  cream  gravy 
over  chicken  on  chop  dish  or  serve  separately  in  gravy  boat. 
Delicious. 

Fried  Chicken,  Virginia  Style 

Clean  a  fat  young  chicken  and  disjoint  it  as  for  a  fricassee. 
Wipe,  dredge  with  salt,  pepper  and  flour  and  spread  out  on  a 
platter.  In  a  deep  frying-pan  try  out  ^2  pound  of  fat  bacon, 
add  1  cupful  of  crisco;  when  hot  put  in  the  pieces  of  chicken, 
cooking  only  enough  at  one  time  to  allow  plenty  of  room  for 
turning  over.  As  fast  as  nicely  colored  lift  from  the  pan  to  a 
platter,  set  where  the  chicken  will  keep  hot.  When  all  of  the 
chicken  is  cooked,  pour  off  the  greater  part  of  the  fat,  leaving 
about  2  tablespoonfuls  in  the  pan.  Dredge  in  sufficient  flour 
to  absorb  the  grease,  stir  until  browned,  then  add  gradually 
1  pint  of  milk  and  cook  until  thick  and  smooth.  Season  to 
taste,  carefully  lay  in  the  fried  chicken  and  simmer  for  3 
minutes,  then  dish  and  serve. 

Chicken  a  la  Mark  Hanna 

Three-pound  yearling  chicken.  Cut  as  for  a  fricassee. 
Wash  thoroughly  in  hot  and  then  in  cold  water.  Drain  in 
colander.  Salt  lightly  and  separately  each  piece.  Put  in  small, 
deep  dripping-pan,  skin  side  up.     Cover  with  1  quart  milk. 

2  tb.  crisco  ^  t.  salt 

Bake  2^  hours  in  hot  oven,  without  disturbing.  If  it 
browns  too  fast  moderate  heat  a  little.  Remove  carefully, 
each  piece,  skin  side  up.  Thicken  gravy  with  2  level  table- 
spoonfuls  flour.     Serve  gravy  from  gravy  bowl. 

Chicken  Tamales 

Boil  2  pounds  of  corn  and  a  handful  of  lime  in  water  enough 
to  cover  until  skin  of  corn  will  slip  off,  then  wash  corn  and 
grind  very  fine.  Boil  a  large  chicken  and  mix  the  liquor,  in 
which  the  chicken  was  boiled,  with  ground  corn,  adding  a 
pound  of  crisco,  and  salt  to  taste.  Having  boiled  a  pound  of 
red  pepper  until  soft,  remove  seeds  and  mash  peppers  to  a 

59 


Poultry  and  Game 

pulp;  add  a  garlic  button,  chopped,  and  ^  pound  of  ground 
chilies.  Mix  this  preparation  with  chicken.  Fill  wet  corn 
husks  (inner  husks)  with  the  mixture  alternately  with  the 
meal  and  chicken.  Tie  up  and  boil  1  hour  in  a  gallon  of  water. 
This  makes  1  dozen  tamales. 

Creamed  Chicken  on  Corn  Fritters 

Have  the  fritter  batter  thin  enough  to  bake  like  griddle 
cakes.  Make  white  sauce  for  chicken  of  cream  instead  of  milk 
and  add  2  egg  yolks.  Chopped  peppers  may  be  added.  Serve 
the  creamed  chicken  on  the  fritters. 

Aunt  Martha's  Fried  Chicken 

Disjoint  broilers  and  let  stand  in  salt  cold  water  for  an 
hour  before  cooking.     Make  batter  as  follows: 

Ij^  c.  flour  ^  t.  baking  powder 

}4  t.  salt  Sweet  milk  enough  to  make 

a  thin  batter 

Have  frying  pan  ^  full  fat.  Dip  chicken  in  batter  and 
then  immerse  in  boiling  fat,  using  if  possible  frying  basket. 
When  well  done,  lay  on  blotting  paper  and  serve  at  once. 

Chicken  Pie 

Use  young  chicken  or  tender  young  hen.  Disjoint  and 
stew  until  tender  in  small  amount  of  water,  to  which  salt, 
white  pepper,  celery  seed  and  sprig  of  parsley  have  been  added 
after  chicken  is  half  cooked.  Line  baking  dish  with  pie  crust 
or  pufF  paste  and  arrange  pieces  of  chicken  in  dish.  Reduce 
the  stock  to  about  3  cups,  strain  and  thicken  with  flour  and  if 
chickens  are  not  fat  add  tablespoonful  of  butter.  Pour  stock 
over  the  chicken  and  place  pieces  of  pie  crust  about  the 
chicken.  Cover  the  dish  with  pie  crust  in  which  make  many 
small  or  several  large  incisions  and  bake  in  moderate  oven 
until  pie  crust  is  well  browned. 

Chicken  a  la  King 

Boil  tender  young  chicken  with  1  onion,  salt  and  pepper, 
few  cloves  and  allspice  and  bay  leaf.  When  cold  cut  chicken 
into  small  pieces.     Pour  J/2  cup  sherry  wine  over  chicken  and 

60 


Poultry  and  Game 

steam  in  double  boiler  1  hour.     One  cup  button  mushrooms 
sliced,  ^2  cup  blanched  almonds  sliced. 

Sauce 

1  tb.  butter  1  c.  rich  milk 

1  tb.  flour  1  egg  (yolk  well  beaten) 

Blend  together.  Add  milk  and  egg  slowly.  Season  with 
celery  salt  and  saltspoon  of  kitchen  bouquet.  Pour  over 
chicken  in  double  boiler  and  steam.  Add  2  pimentos  cut  fine 
before  serving  in  hollow  loaf  of  bread  or  on  toast. 

Chicken  and  Mushrooms  Creamed 

Boil  young  chicken  in  water  seasoned  with  salt  and  celery 
seed  until  the  meat  falls  from  the  bones,  cut  in  dice;  1  can 
mushrooms,  cut  in  quarters  and  cooked  in  1  cup  water  to 
which  1  tablespoonful  butter,  salt  and  pepper  have  been  added. 
Add  mushrooms  to  chicken  and  pour  over  them  a  rich  cream 
sauce.  Steam  over  hot  water  for  ^  hour  before  serving. 
Serve  in  timbale  molds  or  creamed  potatoes. 

Scalloped  Chicken 

Cut  cold  chicken  in  dice  or  use  the  canned  boiled  chicken, 
1)4  cups  steamed  rice,  1  pint  cream  sauce.  Arrange  in  baking 
dish,  first  one  layer  of  rice,  then  chicken  and  sauce,  until  all 
has  been  used.  Cover  with  cracker  crumbs  and  dot  with 
butter.     Bake  until  brown.     Serve  in  same  dish. 

Cream  Gravy 

1  c.  stock  1  tb.  flour 

Add  salt,  pepper  and  pinch  of  paprika  and  when  well 
blended  and  flour  well  cooked,  add  ^  cup  cream. 

Chicken  Croquettes 

Toast  and  butter  }4  pound  bread;  when  cold  put  through 
meat  chopper.  Chop  fine  1  pound  white  meat  of  chicken. 
Add  the  toast  crumbs,  J4  pound  butter,  1  teaspoonful  grated 
onion,  juice  1  lemon,  salt  and  pepper  to  taste,  X  pound  sliced 
blanched  almonds  and  J/2  cup  celery.  Shape  in  pear  shape, 
roll  in  crumbs,  dip  in  egg,  roll  in  crumbs  again  and  fry  in  deep 
crisco.     Use  frying  basket.     Garnish  with  parsley. 

61 


Poultry  and  Game 

Tartare  Chicken 

Have  three  chickens,  each  weighing  about  4  pounds.  Split 
them  down  the  back,  as  for  broiling.  Singe  them,  and  then 
wipe  with  a  clean  towel.  Dredge  generously  with  salt  and 
lightly  with  pepper.  Lay  them  on  a  board,  the  split  side 
down,  and  then  press  the  legs  upon  the  body.  Skewer 
them  in  this  position,  using  long  steel  skewers.  Skewer  the 
wings  in  place  also.  Now  spread  the  breast,  wings  and 
legs  thickly  with  soft  butter;  sprinkle  with  a  thick  layer  of 
dried,  pounded  and  sifted  bread  crumbs.  Place  them  in  a 
large  dripping-pan,  split  side  down,  being  careful  not  to  disturb 
the  crumbs.  Set  away  in  a  cool  place.  When  it  is  time  to 
cook  them  place  in  a  hot  oven  and  cook  50  minutes.  After 
they  have  been  cooking  15  minutes  reduce  the  heat.  When 
they  are  done  take  out  the  skewers  and  place  the  chickens  on 
a  large  platter.  Garnish  with  parsley  and  serve  with  tartare 
sauce.  Remember  that  after  the  chickens  have  been  put  in 
the  pan  nothing  is  done  except  to  put  them  in  the  oven.  The 
chickens  should  be  cooked  early  in  the  day,  if  the  oven  cannot 
be  spared  at  dinner  time,  and  then  heated  when  wanted. 

Fried  Chicken 

Select  young,  tender  chickens  and  disjoint.  Wash  care- 
fully, dry,  and  let  stand  over  night  in  refrigerator.  Then 
cook  by  one  of  the  following  methods: 


Drain  the  chicken  but  do  not  wipe  dry.  Season  with  salt 
and  white  pepper  and  dredge  well  with  flour.  Fry  in  deep 
crisco  hot  enough  to  brown  a  crumb  of  bread  in  60  seconds. 
It  will  require  from  10  to  12  minutes  to  fry  chicken.  Drain 
on  paper  and  place  in  oven  or  warmer  until  ready  to  serve. 
Place  on  platter  garnished  with  parsley  and  rice  croquettes. 

B 

Make  a  batter  of: 

1  c.  bread  flour  ^  c.  water 

1  t.  salt  2  eggs 

Few  grains  pepper  1  tb.  crisco 

Mix  dry  Ingredients,  add  water  and  well  beaten  eggs  and 
then  the  crisco.  Have  kettle  of  crisco  hot  enough  to  turn  a 
crumb  of  bread  a  golden  brown  in  60  seconds.     Drain  chicken 

62 


Poultry  and  Game 

but  do  not  dry.  Dip  each  joint  separately  in  batter  and  fry  in 
deep  crisco  until  a  golden  brown.  It  should  take  from  10  to 
12  minutes.     Serve  on  a  folded  napkin,  garnished  with  parsley. 

C 

Drain  chicken  but  do  not  wipe  dry.  Season  with  salt  and 
pepper  and  dredge  well  with  flour.  Put  3  tablespoonfuls 
crisco  in  frying  pan  and  when  hot  place  chicken  in  pan,  cover 
and  allow  chicken  to  steam  for  10  minutes.  Remove  the  cover 
from  the  pan  and  allow  the  chicken  to  brown,  taking  care  to 
turn  frequently.  Serve  on  platter,  garnish  with  parsley,  and 
serve  with  cream  gravy. 

Creamed  Chicken 

2  tb.  flour  1)4  t.  onion  juice 

2  tb.  crisco  1  tb.  Worcestershire  sauce 

2  c.  hot  sweet  milk  2  c.  tender  chicken,  chopped  fine 

Rub  crisco  and  flour  together.  Add  to  hot  milk  and  stir  in 
double  boiler  until  thick.  Season  with  salt,  white  pepper,  a 
dash  of  paprika  and  the  onion  juice  and  Worcestershire  sauce. 
Add  chicken  and  remove  to  back  of  range.  Allow  chicken  to 
stand  20  minutes  to  ripen  and  serve  in  rice  border  on  toast,  in 
timbale  molds,  or  fill  a  hollow  loaf  of  bread. 

Chicken  Souffle 

Make  2  cups  of  cream  sauce  and  season  with  chopped 
parsley  and  onion  juice.  Stir  2  cups  of  chopped  chicken  into 
the  sauce.  When  hot,  add  the  beaten  yolks  of  4  eggs;  cook  1 
minute  and  set  away  to  cool;  when  cool,  stir  in  the  whites, 
beaten  stiff".  Bake  in  a  buttered  dish  about  20  minutes  and 
serve  immediately.     Any  meat  may  be  substituted  for  chicken. 

Chicken  Livers 

Take  chicken  livers  which  have  been  stewed  gently  in 
butter  and  a  little  water  in  the  morning,  and  cut  into  small, 
even  squares.  Mix  with  )4  pound  of  butter,  the  yolks  of  3 
hard-boiled  eggs,  put  into  the  chafing  dish  and  add  seasoning 
of  salt,  a  very  little  cayenne  pepper,  and  a  pinch  of  dry  mus- 
tard. When  heated,  put  in  the  livers  and  part  of  a  can  of 
mushrooms  sliced.  When  it  has  cooked  5  minutes  add  a 
small  glass  of  madeira  and  serve  on  hot  toast. 

63 


Poultry  and  Game 

Fricassee  of  Chicken 

Disjoint  a  good-sized  chicken,  season  with  salt  and  pepper 
and  saute  in  hot  crisco,  frying  to  a  delicate  brown.  Remove 
to  a  saucepan  in  which  1  tablespoon  of  flour  and  1  tablespoon 
crisco  have  been  blended,  and  to  which  add  1  tablespoon 
finely  minced  onion,  1  tablespoon  parsley  chopped  fine,  >^ 
button  garlic  and  1  teaspoon  chili  powder,  and  cook  for  few 
minutes,  stirring  well  and  adding  gradually  1  quart  of  water. 
Simmer  for  ^  hour  or  until  chicken  is  tender.  One  tomato 
chopped  fine,  or  a  can  of  mushrooms,  may  be  added  to  the 
above  with  good  eflFects. 

Rice  and  Chicken  a  la  Valenciana 

Fry  in  hot  fat  to  a  golden  brown  a  chicken  cut  in  pieces 
When  half  fried  add  a  peeled  button  of  garlic  and  onion 
chopped  fine  and  1  teaspoon  of  salt.  With  this  is  served  rice 
prepared  as  follows:  Take  1  cupful  of  rice  well  washed, 
a  scant  teaspoonful  of  salt,  3  cupfuls  of  boiling  water  and 
a  small  spoonful  of  crisco.  The  rice  should  be  washed  in 
cold  water  until  all  cloudiness  is  removed,  for  which  five 
or  six  waters  will  be  necessary.  While  washing  bring  to  a 
boiling  point  3  cups  of  water,  add  a  teaspoonful  of  salt 
and  a  small  spoonful  of  butter.  When  water  is  boiling  add 
the  rice  and  let  boil  from  10  to  15  minutes,  keeping  the 
cover  partially  over.  At  the  end  of  15  minutes  the  water 
should  be  absorbed  and  the  grains  of  rice  soft  and  separated 
instead  of  the  soggy  mass  so  often  seen.  Remove  the  cover 
and  let  the  rice  dry  in  the  pot  for  about  5  minutes,  then  place 
on  the  back  of  the  stove  and  continue  the  drying  out  for 
about  20  or  30  minutes  longer.  A  couple  of  large,  sweet 
green  Spanish  peppers  may  be  added  to  the  rice  while  it  is 
still  boiling. 

Chicken  Croquettes 

Open  a  can  of  chicken  some  hours  before  using  if  fresh 
chicken  is  not  at  hand.  Chop  the  meat  fine,  seasoning  it 
with  celery  salt  and  white  pepper.  Cook  together  in  a  sauce- 
pan a  tablespoonful,  each,  of  butter  and  flour,  and  when  they 
thoroughly  blend  pour  upon  them  a  cup  of  rich  milk — part 
cream  if  you  have  it — to  which  a  pinch  of  baking  soda  has 
been  added.     Stir  to  a  smooth  white  sauce,  then  add  the 

64 


poultry  and  Game 

minced  chicken,  season  to  taste,  adding  a  pinch  of  nutmeg  and 
a  dash  of  lemon  juice.  When  the  chicken  is  smoking  hot  add 
to  it  gradually  a  beaten  egg  and  take  from  the  fire.  Set  aside 
until  cold,  and  form  into  croquettes  of  uniform  size.  Roll 
each  of  these  in  beaten  egg,  then  in  cracker  dust  and  set  in  the 
ice-chest  until  they  are  very  cold  and  the  coating  on  them  has 
stiffened.  Fry  in  deep  fat  to  a  golden  brown.  Arrange  on 
a  platter  and  pour  about  the  croquettes  a  white  sauce  into 
which  a  tablespoonful  of  minced  parsley  has  been  stirred. 

Scalloped  Chicken 

Cut,  not  chop,  2  cups  of  chicken  into  small  pieces.  Make 
a  white  sauce  as  directed  in  the  last  recipe,  adding  to  it  a 
gill  of  oyster  liquor.  Butter  a  pudding  dish  and  put  in  the 
bottom  of  it  a  layer  of  cut-up  chicken,  well  seasoned, 
and  scatter  over  this  a  layer  of  fine  crumbs,  then  cover  with  the 
white  sauce.  Put  in  another  layer  of  chicken,  more  crumbs 
and  more  sauce.  Proceed  in  this  way  until  all  the  ingredients 
are  used.  Sprinkle  the  surface  of  the  scallop  with  fine  crumbs, 
dot  with  bits  of  butter,  and  set  in  the  oven.  Cook  until  well 
browned. 

Chicken  Salad 

Open  a  can  of  boneless  chicken,  or  use  2  cups  of  boiled 
chicken,  and  turn  the  chicken  into  a  bowl.  Set  this  on  the 
ice  until  chilled,  first  cutting  the  chicken  into  pieces  }4  inch 
square.  Measure  the  amount  of  chicken  and  to  2  cups  of  it 
allow  a  generous  cup  of  crisp  celery  cut  into  bits.  Mix  the 
chicken  and  the  celery  together,  seasoning  with  salt,  pepper 
and  a  French  dressing.  Line  a  salad  bowl  with  lettuce 
leaves,  put  the  salad  into  it  and  pour  over  all  a  good  mayon- 
naise dressing.     Garnish  with  slices  of  hard-boiled  eggs. 


Chicken  a  la  Normande 

Having  cut  up  the  chicken,  season  the  pieces  with  salt  and 
pepper  and  put  them  in  a  shallow  saucepan  in  which  you  have 
heated  2  tablespoonfuls  of  crisco.  As  soon  as  the  flesh  begins 
to  grow  firm,  but  without  taking  color,  add  a  large  onion, 
chopped  fine,  and  allow  this  to  cook  on  a  gentle  fire  for  several 
minutes,  the  saucepan  being  covered.     At  the  end  of  8  or  10 

65 


Poultry  and  Game 

minutes  cooking  add  a  cup'  of  very  fresh  cream  and  finish 
cooking  the  chicken.  When  it  is  done  to  a  turn  arrange  the 
pieces  on  a  dish.  If  at  this  point  the  sauce  appears  too  Hquid, 
boil  it  down,  then  pass  it  through  a  fine  strainer,  after  which 
you  pour  it  over  the  chicken  and  serve.  You  may  vary 
the  flavor  of  this  dish  by  adding  some  small  mushrooms 
or  sliced  truflfles.  You  may  also  add  shrimp  tails,  artichoke 
bottoms  or  little  sticks  of  cooked  egg  plant.  You  may  even 
serve  the  chicken  a  la  creme  with  hard-boiled  eggs  sliced  ^up. 

Curry  of  Chicken 

Cut  up  the  chicken  in  rather  small  pieces,  brown  it  gently 
in  a  saucepan  in  which  you  have  previously  heated  2  soup- 
spoonfuls  of  butter.  Add  an  onion  of  good  size,  chopped  fine, 
and  as  soon  as  the  onion  begins  to  take  a  good  light  brown 
color  add  a  soupspoonful  of  curry  and  2  tablespoonfuls  of  flour. 
Let  the  whole  cook  for  several  minutes,  stirring  frequently 
with  a  wooden  spoon.  When  the  ingredients  are  well  cooked, 
add  }4  cup  of  hot  water  and  a  pinch  of  salt,  cover  the  sauce- 
pan and  let  it  cook  on  a  gentle  fire  for  15  or  20  minutes.  Serve 
very  hot  and  accompany  it  by  a  plate  of  rice,  cooked  simply 
in  boiling  water  with  salt  for  16  or  18  minutes,  and  then  drain. 


66 


CHAPTER  IX 

EGGS 

Eggs  contain  all  the  elements  in  right  proportion  necessary 
for  the  support  of  the  body,  but  their  highly  concentrated 
nutritive  value  renders  it  necessary  to  use  them  in  connection 
with  other  foods  containing  starch,  as  potatoes  or  bread,  in 
order  to  secure  the  necessary  bulk.  Nine  eggs  are  equivalent 
to  a  pound  of  beef. 

They  are  easier  to  digest  raw,  and  as  albumen  coagulates 
at  a  temperature  of  from  134  degrees  to  160  degrees  F.,  the 
importance  of  cooking  at  a  low  temperature  to  insure  their 
easy  digestion  will  be  seen. 

Boiled  Soft 

Into  a  saucepan  of  boiling  water  sufficient  to  cover  them, 
dip  carefully  the  number  of  eggs  to  be  boiled.  Cover  sauce- 
pan and  remove  to  back  of  range  where  they  will  keep  the 
same   temperature.     Cook   8   minutes. 

To  hard-boil  follow  same  directions  for  45  minutes,  plunge 
into  cold  water  to  prevent  discoloration. 

Scrambled  Eggs,  San  Juan 

Mince  2  green  peppers,  2  sweet  red  peppers,  fry  In  butter 
10  minutes,  add  1  tomato  peeled  and  cut  into  quarters,  salt 
and  pepper.  Let  simmer  for  10  minutes  more.  At  the  same 
time  scramble  your  eggs  and  mix  above  preparation  with  them, 
serve  on  toast  with  a  little  tomato  sauce  around  it. 

Shirred  Eggs  a  la  Creole 

Fry  1  tablespoonful  of  chopped  onions,  as  much  cut-up 
green  peppers,  a  peeled  tomato  cut  in  quarters,  let  simmer 
for  10  minutes,  add  2  tablespoonfuls  cooked  rice,  salt  and  a 
dash  of  paprika.  Cover  bottom  of  dish,  break  eggs  carefully 
on  top  of  preparation,  and  cook  in  moderate  oven  5  minutes. 

Cheese  Omelet 

4  eggs  1  tb.  grated  cheese 

1  tb.  crisco  ^  t.  salt 

1  tb.  water  Pinch  of  pepper 

Beat  eggs  with  water.  Add  the  grated  cheese,  salt  and 
cayenne.     Melt  the  crisco,  stir  in  the  mixture  until  it  just 

67 


Eggs 

begins  to  set.     The  omelet  must  be  quite  soft  in  the  middle. 
Turn  onto  a  hot  dish  and  serve. 

Tomato  or  other  sauce  may  be  poured  around  if  desired. 

Omelet 

Yolks  of  3  eggs  well  beaten,  1  teaspoonful  salt,  pepper, 
3  tablespoonfuls  hot  water,  added  gradually,  then  beaten 
whites  folded  in  heated  omelet  pan,  grease  bottom  and  sides, 
then  turn  in  the  mixture  and  cook  slowly.  When  browned 
nicely  on  the  bottom,  put  on  the  shelf  of  the  oven  to  cook  top. 
Fold  and  turn  out  on  hot  platter.  White  sauce  may  be  poured 
around  this,  or  1  cup  canned  peas  may  be  beaten  in  sauce  and 
poured  around  omelet. 

Hold  pan  by  handle  with  left  hand.  With  a  case  knife 
make  2  J^-inch  incisions  opposite  each  other  at  right  angles 
to  handle.  Place  knife  under  part  of  omelet  nearest  handle, 
tip  pan  to  nearly  vertical  position;  by  carefully  coaxing  the 
omelet  with  knife,  it  will  fold  and  turn  without  breaking. 

Plain  Omelet 

4  eggs  4  tb.  water 

4  t.  crisco  Few  grains  pepper 

^2  t.  salt 

Separate  the  yolks  and  whites.  Beat  the  yolks  until 
creamy  and  thick.  Add  water,  salt,  pepper,  mix  thoroughly. 
Beat  the  whites  until  stiff  and  dry,  and  fold  in  lightly. 
Put  crisco  into  the  omelet  pan,  and  when  hot,  turn  into  the 
mixture.  Let  it  stand  for  2  minutes,  where  there  is  moderate 
heat.  When  brown  on  the  bottom  and  slightly  firm  on  the 
top,  fold  and  serve  hot  on  a  hot  platter. 

French  Omelet 

To  4  eggs  allow  J/2  cup  of  cold  water,  salt  and  pepper.  Beat 
the  eggs  light,  then  add  the  water  and  mix  thoroughly.  Pour 
into  hot  greased  frying-pan,  run  the  spatula  around  the  edges 
and  lift  slightly  to  allow  the  thin  part  underneath.  Dish 
onto  a  hot  platter.     Serve  at  once. 

Cheese  Omelet 

Make  omelet  as  above  and  on  top  put  cup  grated  cheese 
before  folding. 

68 


Eggs 

Puffy  Omelet 

To  make  a  puffy  omelet,  beat  the  whites  of  the  eggs  until 
dry;  beat  the  yolks  until  light  colored  and  thick;  add  to  the 
yolks  a  tablespoonful  of  water  for  each  yolk,  and  ^  teaspoonful 
salt  and  a  dash  of  pepper  for  each  3  yolks;  mix  together 
thoroughly  and  turn  over  the  beaten  whites,  then  cut  the 
whites  into  the  yolk  mixture.  Have  the  pan  buttered  and 
hot,  turn  in  the  mixture,  spreading  it  evenly  over  the  pan. 
Let  stand  for  about  2  minutes,  where  there  is  a  moderate  heat, 
then  set  in  the  oven  to  cook  the  top  slightly.  Just  as  soon  as 
a  knife — thrust  in  the  center  of  the  omelet — comes  out  nearly 
clean,  remove  from  the  oven,  cut  across  the  center  of  the  top, 
at  right  angles  to  the  handle,  fold  the  part  nearest  the  handle 
over  the  other  part,  and  turn  onto  a  hot  platter. 

Either  the  plain  French  omelet  or  the  puffy  omelet  may  be 
varied  by  the  use  of  a  filling,  or  a  garnish,  or  both.  The  fill- 
ing, if  finely  chopped,  as  parsley  or  other  herbs,  may  be 
mixed  with  the  body  of  the  omelet,  though  by  "filling"  we 
usually  mean  a  little  of  the  desired  article  chopped  fine  or 
cut  in  small  cubes,  perhaps  mixed  with  a  sauce,  sprinkled 
onto  the  surface  of  the  omelet  before  it  is  folded.  When  used 
as  a  garnish  the  article  is  mixed  with  a  sauce  and  poured  about 
the  omelet.  Green  or  canned  peas,  in  white  sauce,  mushrooms, 
fresh  or  canned,  macaroni  in  tomato  sauce,  oysters  in  cream 
sauce,  fine  chopped  ham  or  chicken,  asparagus  tips,  and 
tomatoes  are  among  the  favorite  fillings  and  garnishes. 

The  pan  should  be  thin,  as  quick  cooking  is  of  importance; 
it  should  not  be  large,  as  one  of  the  first  requisites  in  a  perfect 
omelet  is  thickness.  The  greatest  care  and  skill  are  needed  to 
secure  an  omelet  in  which  the  eggs  are  not  liquid,  but  barely 
set. 

A  spoon  or  fork  is  the  proper  utensil  for  serving.  If  a  knife 
needs  be  used,  the  omelet  is  a  failure. 

Omelet  Souffle 

Whites  of  6  eggs;  yolks  of  3  eggs;  2  tablespoons  powdered 
sugar;  the  grated  yellow  rind  of  ^  lemon;  ^  teaspoon  lemon 
juice.  Beat  the  whites  of  the  eggs  until  stiff  and  frothy;  sift 
over  the  sugar  and  beat  again  until  fine  and  dry;  add  the  yolks 
slightly  beaten,  the  lemon  rind  and  juice.  Mix  quickly,  put 
at  once  into  a  baking  dish,  sprinkle  on  top  with  powdered 
sugar,  and   bake  in   an  oven   at  400  degrees  Fahrenheit,  5 

69 


Eggs 

minutes.  The  oven  must  be  ready  before  you  begin  the  souffle. 
If  it  is  stringy  inside  it  has  been  baked  too  long.  To  be  right, 
it  must  be  hot  but  soft.  It  must  be  served  immediately  in 
the  dish  in  which  it  was  baked. 

French  Omelet 

To  make  a  French  omelet,  break  the  eggs  into  a  bowl;  add 
as  many  tablespoonfuls  of  water  as  eggs,  counting  2  yolks  as  a 
whole  egg,  and  for  each  3  eggs,  a  dash  of  pepper  and  ^  tea- 
spoon of  salt.  Beat  the  eggs  with  a  spoon  or  fork  until  a 
spoonful  can  be  taken  up;  then  strain  into  another  bowl.  If  a 
mild  flavor  of  garlic  be  agreeable,  rub  the  inside  of  the  bowl 
into  which  the  eggs  are  to  be  broken  with  a  clove  of  garlic. 
Have  ready,  in  the  cleanest,  smoothest  and  thinnest  of  frying- 
pans,  a  tablespoonful  of  melted  butter,  into  this  pour  the  egg 
mixture,  set  on  a  hot  part  of  the  range  for  a  minute,  then  with 
a  thin  knife,  or  spatula,  separate  the  cooked  portion  from  the 
side  of  the  frying  pan,  and  gently  rock  the  pan  back  and  forth, 
the  side  next  the  handle  raised  as  the  pan  is  pushed  forward 
and  the  opposite  raised  as  it  is  brought  back,  that  the 
uncooked  part  may  run  down  next  the  pan.  When  creamy 
throughout,  begin  at  the  side  of  the  pan  next  the  handle  and 
roll  the  omelet,  letting  the  pan  rest  on  the  stove  a  moment, 
until  the  omelet  is  browned  slightly,  adding  a  little  butter  if 
needed,  and  turn  onto  a  hot  platter. 

Spanish  Omelet 

Cook  together  1  tablespoonful  butter,  1  chopped  green 
pepper,  }4  sliced  onion;  add  1^  cups  tomatoes;  add  salt  and 
cook  slowly  for  15  minutes.  Make  an  omelet  by  your  usual 
rule  and  just  before  folding  spread  with  part  of  the  tomato 
mixture.  Turn  out  on  a  hot  platter  and  serve  with  the  rest  of 
the  sauce  poured  around  it. 

Sardine  Omelet 

Three  eggs,  1  tablespoonful  cream  or  milk,  1  teaspoonful 
of  anchovy  essence,  3  sardines,  free  from  skin  and  bone,  1 
heaping  tablespoonful  of  butter,  pepper  and  salt  to  taste. 
Break  the  eggs  into  a  basin,  add  the  cream  and  milk  and  beat 
up  well,  cut  the  sardines  into  small  dice,  add  these  and  the 
anchovy  essence,  and  mix  thoroughly.  Season  with  a  pinch 
of  pepper.     Melt  the  butter  in  a  frying  or  omelet  pan,  pour  in 

70 


Eggs 

the  mixture,  stir  until  the  eggs  begin  to  set,  then  form  the 
mixture  into  a  half  moon,  allow  it  to  brown  in  the  oven,  and 
turn  out  quickly  onto  a  hot  dish. 

Scrambled  Eggs  with  Mushrooms 

Take  6  eggs,  6  mushrooms,  1  tablespoonful  of  butter, 
salt,  pepper,  red  pepper  and  slices  of  buttered  toast.  Wash 
and  peel  the  mushrooms,  chop  them  finely  and  fry  in  a 
little  butter.  Break  up  the  eggs  into  a  basin,  whisk  up 
well,  and  pour  into  a  saucepan.  Add  the  mushrooms,  butter, 
pepper,  salt,  red  pepper  to  taste.  Stir  over  the  fire  with  a 
wooden  spoon  until  the  eggs  are  lightly  set.  Have  the  toast 
neatly  trimmed  on  a  hot  plate  or  dish,  pour  the  egg  mixture 
on  top  of  the  toast  and  serve  at  once. 

Eggs  a  la  Creole 

3  tomatoes  }4  pt.  water 

1  onion  1  tb.  crisco 

1  pepper  1  tb.  flour 

1  garlic  1  tb.  salt 

Cook  3  large  tomatoes,  1  onion,  1  large  bell  pepper  and 
piece  of  garlic  in  }4  pint  water  until  tender  enough  to  run 
through  sieve.  Put  juice  in  chafing  dish  and  add  2  tablespoons 
crisco  into  which  have  been  rubbed  2  tablespoons  flour  and  1 
teaspoon  salt.  When  sauce  is  well  blended  and  thick,  drop  in 
and  poach  4  or  more  eggs,  poaching  2  at  a  time.  Serve  on 
toast  and  pour  sauce  over  egg. 

Omelet  Havana 

Mince  6  chicken  livers,  1  dozen  mushrooms,  fry  the  liver 
in  butter,  add  the  mushrooms,  moisten  with  port  wine  and 
"A-l"  sauce.  Cut  4  peeled  fresh  tomatoes  in  quarters,  fry 
them  in  crisco,  also  sweet  Spanish  peppers.  Season  with  salt 
and  a  good  dash  of  tabasco  sauce.  Fill  the  inside  of  the  omelet 
with  above  preparation  and  surround  same  with  tomato  sauce. 

Spanish  Omelet 

2  c.  tomatoes  J4  t.  white  pepper 
1  green  sweet  pepper  }4  t.  salt 

1  medium  sized  onion  Dash  paprika 

1  c.  mushrooms  (if  desired)  8  eggs 

2  tb.  crisco  1  tb.  flour 

1  tb.  crisco 

Put  the  crisco  in  frying  pan  with  salt  and  pepper.  When 
very  hot  add  vegetables  and  cook  them  until  tender,  covering 

71 


Eggs 

the  pan  for  a  short  time  to  allow  the  vegetables  to  cook  with- 
out brov/ning.  Separate  eggs,  add  pinch  of  salt  to  whites  and 
beat  until  stiff  and  dry;  beat  yolks  until  creamy.  Add  2 
tablespoonfuls  water,  sift  in  1  tablespoonful  flour.  Add  1 
tablespoonful  melted  crisco;  fold  in  whites  of  eggs  and  pour 
in  egg  mixture  in  hot,  well  criscoed  frying  pan.  When  the 
under  side  of  the  omelet  is  brown,  fold  over  with  spatula, 
cover  with  Spanish  sauce,  garnish  with  parsley  and  serve  hot. 

Nest  Egg 

(Breakfast  or  Tea  Dish) 

Toast  1  slice  of  bread  and  butter  it.  Take  1  fresh  egg, 
separate  the  white  from  yolk,  then  beat  up  the  whites  until 
stiff,  adding  1  pinch  of  salt,  spread  beaten  whites  on  toast  in 
form  of  a  nest,  then  drop  yolk  in.  Place  in  moderate  oven 
5  minutes  or  until  slightly  browned. 

Savory  Egg 

Boil  eggs  hard  and  put  into  cold  water  until  needed.  Peel, 
cut  in  halves  lengthwise,  take  out  yolks  and  mix  with  parsley 
chopped  fine,  a  little  pepper  and  salt,  and  a  little  anchovy 
paste.  Fry  some  croutons  of  bread  in  crisco  until  a  nice 
golden  color.  Place  on  each  a  half  shell  and  fill  with  your 
mixture  made  hot.  Then  place  in  oven  a  few  minutes  and 
cook. 

Egg  in  Tomato  Sauce 

Put  enough  tomato  sauce  in  a  shallow  dish  to  cover  bottom 
of  dish,  then  drop  in  egg,  sprinkle  with  pepper  and  salt;  add 
enough  of  the  sauce  to  just  cover,  then  stand  in  a  dish  of  hot 
water;  put  in  a  moderate  oven  and  cook  for  5  minutes.  The 
eggs  should  be  set  before  taking  from  oven. 

Poached  Eggs 

Have  a  shallow  pan  nearly  full  of  boiling  water,  salted, 
remove  scum  and  reduce  temperature  until  water  is  motion- 
less; break  an  egg  into  a  saucer  and  slip  into  the  water;  when 
a  film  has  formed  over  the  yolk  and  the  white  is  firm,  take  up 
with  a  skimmer  and  place  on  toast  which  has  been  trimmed. 

Shirred  Eggs 

Brush  egg  shirrers  or  ramekins  with  butter.  Break  1  egg 
in  each,  sprinkle  with  salt  and  pepper,  and  bake  until  the 
whites  are  firm. 

72 


Eggs 


Deviled  Eggs 


Boil  hard  6  eggs.  Remove  shells  while  warm.  Cut  each 
egg  in  half  lengthwise  and  take  out  yolks.  Mash  yolks  well 
and  add  2  tablespoonfuls  butter  and  1  teaspoonful  French 
mustard.  Rub  into  smooth  paste.  Add  2  tablespoonfuls  grated 
ham,  ]/2  teaspoonful  salt  and  dash  pepper,  white.     Mix  well. 

Fill  whites  of  eggs  with  mixture  and  serve  on  beds  of 
water-cress. 

Bacon  and  Eggs 

Fry  quickly  thinly  sliced  lean  bacon  and  when  crisp  take 
out  of  the  frying  pan  and  keep  hot;  add  to  the  grease  remain- 
ing in  the  frying  pan  a  double  sprinkle  of  chili  powder  and  heat 
to  a  boiling  point.  If  there  is  not  sufficient  grease  a  table- 
spoonful  of  crisco  may  be  added.  Break  the  eggs  into  the  pan 
one  at  a  time,  sprinkle  with  pepper  and  a  very  little  salt, 
removing  eggs  from  frying  pan  as  soon  as  done. 

The  bacon  will  be  improved  if  placed  directly  on  ice  for 
20  or  30  minutes  before  frying. 

Beauregard  Eggs 

Boil  4  eggs  hard  and  separate  whites  and  yolks.  Put  each 
separately  through  a  vegetable  press,  or  chop  whites  and  press 
yolks  through  a  sieve.  Rub  together  2  tablespoonfuls  each 
of  flour  and  butter;  add  a  cupful  of  cold  milk;  stir  until 
boiling;  add  the  whites  of  the  eggs,  ^  teaspoonful  of  salt,  and 
a  dash  of  black  pepper.  Reheat,  pour  over  4  slices  of  toast, 
put  the  yolks  over  the  top,  stand  at  the  oven  door  a  minute, 
and  serve. 

Creamed  Eggs 

Cut  up  into  quarters  j^  dozen  hard-boiled  eggs.  Thinly 
slice  2  large  white  onions,  place  them  in  a  saucepan  with  1^ 
tablespoonfuls  butter;  cover  and  cook  slowly  without  brown- 
ing for  10  minutes;  then  add  ^  teaspoonful  salt,  }4  teaspoon- 
ful white  pepper  and  1  tablespoonful  flour.  Stir  gently  until 
the  flour  is  absorbed;  then  add  gradually  1  cup  of  hot  milk, 
stirring  until  thick  and  smooth.  Add  the  prepared  eggs, 
cover  and  simmer  for  10  minutes  longer,  adding  just  before 
taking  from  the  fire. 


73 


CHAPTER  X 

SALADS— SALAD  DRESSINGS 

A  crisp,  green  vegetable  salad  is  served  with  the  roast  of 
meat  or  poultry.  Cucumbers  are  served  with  fish;  a  crisp, 
green  vegetable,  as  celery,  endive,  lettuce,  etc.,  is  served 
with  game;  sometimes  pieces  of  fruit,  as  orange,  are  added 
to  the  green  vegetable  served  with  game.  French  dress- 
ing is  the  only  dressing  appropriate  for  service  at  dinner. 

Frozen  Tomato  Salad 

Peel  and  chop  fine  8  ripe,  firm  tomatoes.  Season  with  a 
little  salt,  pepper  and  sugar,  and  three  drops  of  onion  juice; 
turn  into  a  freezer  and  freeze.  Fill  a  melon  mold  with  this 
frozen  mixture,  pack  in  ice  and  salt,  and  let  it  stand  for  sev- 
eral hours  to  ripen.  Serve  on  a  bed  of  white  celery  leaves, 
garnished  with  olives,  with  mounds  of  thick  dressing  over  it. 

Alligator  Pear  Salad 

Cut  alligator  pears  in  half  lengthwise,  remove  seed  and 
cut  each  half  into  2,  or  if  desired,  3  slices.  Serve  with  French 
dressing.  If  desired  the  tender  part  of  pear  may  be  carefully 
removed  from  outside  skin,  cut  in  cubes,  and  served  on  let- 
tuce leaves. 

Apple  Salad 

Use  equal  parts  of  apples,  nuts,  celery,  split  celery  stalks 
and  cut  in  thin  slices.  Chop  nuts.  Do  not  prepare  app.les 
until  ready  to  put  mixture  together.     Cut  in  eighths,  pare. 

Cabbage  Salad 

Remove  outside  leaves  from  small,  solid  white  cabbage 
and  cut  off  stalk  close  to  leaves.  Remove  center  in  such 
fashion  as  to  form  a  bowl  and  cut  rim  in  points.  Garnish 
with  red  apples  and  whole  cloves.  With  a  sharp  knife  thinly 
shred  removed  portion,  put  in  ice  water  and  let  stand  1 
hour.  Drain  and  wring  in  double  thickness  of  cheesecloth 
as  dry  as  possible.  Mix  with  an  equal  measure  of  crisp, 
finely  cut  celery,  moisten  with  dressing,  fill  prepared  bowl 
with  mixture,  and  pile  dressing  on  top.  If  apples  are  at 
hand,  use  yi  apple,  cut  in  small  pieces,  in  place  of  all  celery. 

74 


Salads — Salad  Dressings 

Salad  of  Brussels  Sprouts 

Cut  In  halves  cold  boiled  Brussels  sprouts.  Mix  with 
sliced  olives,  gherkins  and  capers.  Serve  on  lettuce  leaves 
with  mayonnaise  dressing. 

Frozen  Cheese  Salad 

Put  through  the  potato  ricer  1  pound  of  fresh  cottage 
cheese.  To  this  add  ^^  teaspoon  paprika  and  salt  to  taste. 
Cut  moderately  fine  J4  pound  shelled  pecans  and  1  small- 
sized  bottle  of  stuffed  olives,  reserving  3  or  4  to  slice  for  gar- 
nishing the  mold.  Add  the  cut  olives  and  cheese  with  1 
teaspoon  finely  chopped  parsley.  Whip  solid  cream  and  add 
to  the  cheese.  Oil  a  mold  and  decorate  the  sides  and  bottom 
with  thinly  sliced  olives.  Put  in  the  cheese  mixture,  fill  the 
mold  full  to  the  top.  Place  an  oiled  paper  over  the  top  and 
bottom,  tie  firmly  together  and  pack  for  1^  to  2  hours  in 
finely  crushed  ice  and  rock  salt,  using  equal  parts.  When 
firm  through,  but  not  frozen  too  hard,  slice  and  serve  on  let- 
tuce with  sliced  tomato.     Garnish  with  mayonnaise. 

Asparagus  Salad 

Cut  rings  from  a  bright  red  pepper  J^  inch  in  width. 
Slip  3  or  4  stalks  of  cold  boiled  asparagus  through  each  ring 
and  arrange  on  crisp  lettuce  leaves.  Serve  with  a  French 
dressing,  to  which  has  been  added  ^  tablespoonful  of  tomato 
catsup. 

Sweetbread  and  Asparagus  Salad 

Combine  equal  quantities  of  sweetbread  cubes,  celery  and 
chicken  aspic.  Decorate  the  mold  with  asparagus  tips  and 
serve  with  stiff  mayonnaise  on  lettuce  leaves. 

Pimento  Salad 

Put  through  meat  chopper  10-cent  can  pimentos  and  1 
pound  American  cheese.  Chopping  them  together,  add  to 
this  1  pint  boiled  dressing;  however,  if  dressing  is  made  for 
this  purpose  use  very  little  sugar  in  it.  Use  for  sandwiches, 
or  fill  green  peppers. 

Cheese  Salad 

Use  ^2  pint  cottage  cheese  and  to  this  amount  take  2  pimen- 
tos and  cut  in  strips.     Lay  cheese  in  mounds  on  lettuce  hearts, 

75 


Salads — Salad  Dressings 

or  chicory  if  obtainable,  and  lay  strips  of  pimentos  on 
mounds.  Use  mayonnaise  or  French  dressing.  Very  nice 
for  sandwiches,  using  graham  bread. 

Nasturtium  Salad 

Wash  thoroughly  in  ice  water  a  sufficient  quantity  of 
leaves  and  blossoms,  and  with  a  silver  fork  stir  into  a  dressing 
made  of  4  tablespoons  olive  oil,  2  tablespoons  of  vinegar, 
}4  tablespoon  of  Worcestershire  sauce,  a  level  teaspoon  of 
sugar,  a  teaspoonful  of  salt,  and  a  pinch  of  celery  salt. 
Arrange  at  once  on  freshly  washed  nasturtium  leaves  and  serve 
with  stiff  mayonnaise  dressing. 

Potato  Salad 

Mix  1  tablespoon  of  flour  with  1  tablespoonful  of  melted 
butter  or  bacon  grease;  add  ^2  teaspoonful  of  salt;  1  heaping 
teaspoonful  of  chili  powder  and  1  cupful  of  vinegar;  boil  and 
stir  until  smooth.  Cut  potatoes  into  small  dice  and  add 
finely  chopped  onions  to  taste;  then  mix  with  the  above 
dressing. 

Shrimp  Salad 

To  1  can  of  shrimps  add  1  teacup  of  chopped  celery,  3 
hard-boiled  eggs,  a  few  English  walnut  meats  and  pour  may- 
onnaise dressing  over  all  just  before  serving.  Rinse  shrimps 
in  ice  water  before  using  and  be  sure  to  keep  all  thoroughly 
chilled;  serve  on  lettuce  leaf. 

Nut  Salad 

Take  equal  portions  of  English  walnut,  hickory  nut  and 
pecan  meats,  add  twice  as  much  chopped  celery  as  nuts, 
pour  over  all  a  good  salad  dressing  and  serve  at  once  on 
lettuce  leaves. 

Neufchatel  Salad 

Season  Neufchatel  cheese  with  pepper  and  salt,  mix  with 
a  little  cream  to  make  soft.  Have  ready  whole  blanched 
almonds.  Cover  these  with  cheese  and  form  in  egg  shapes. 
Roll  in  finely  ground  almonds.  Pile  in  nests  of  lettuce 
leaves.     Serve  with  boiled  dressing. 

76 


Salads — Salad  Dressings 
Adirondack  Salad 

1  can  peas  4  tb.  cream  cheese 

3  tb.  onion  4  tb.  sweet  pickles 

Boiled  or  mayonnaise  salad  dressing 

Cut  onions  very  fine  and  cut  cheese  and  pickles  in  small 
pieces.     Serve  in  cucumber  shells. 

Tomato  Salad 

A  delicious  salad  may  be  made  in  Spring  or  early  Summer 
from  sliced  tomatoes,  laid  on  lettuce  leaf,  and  sprinkled 
generously  with  minced  baby  onions  and  nuts.  Serve  with 
boiled  dressing,  mayonnaise  or  French  dressing. 

Combination  Salad 

Potatoes,  onions,  cucumbers  and  beets  are  very  good 
combined  for  a  potato  salad.  Also  sliced  hard-boiled  eggs 
and  beets  make  another  nutritious  and  pleasant  combination 
for  a  salad.  Hollowed  out  beets  or  apples  with  scalloped 
edges  make  pretty  individual  cases.  Shrimp  or  sardines 
may  be  added  to  any  combination. 

Frozen  Salad 

6  medium-sized  tomatoes  1  tb.  grated  onion 

1  large  cucumber  1  tb.  kitchen  bouquet 

1  c.  celery  1  t.  fresh  grated  horse-radish 

1  green  sweet  pepper  1  t.  salt 

Put  together  with  boiled  dressing  in  oiled  molds.  Pack 

in  salt  and  ice — 1  part  salt  to  2  parts  ice,  for  4  hours.  Dip 

mold  in  hot  water  for  a  second  before  unmolding  on  salad 
dish.     Garnish  with  lettuce  and  celery  curls. 

Grapefruit  Salad 

Take  out  pulp  of  grapefruit  and  refill  with: 

1  c.  of  cubes  of  grapefruit  1  c.  marshmallows,  quartered 

freed  from  skin  J^  c.  broken  pecan  meats 

1  c.  Malaga  grapes,  seeded  }4  c.  raisins 

1  c.  pineapple  chunks 

Mix  with  boiled  dressing  20  minutes  before  serving. 
Garnish  with  boiled  dressing  or  mayonnaise. 

77 


Salads — Salad  Dressings 

Apple  Salad 

Peel  6  sound  apples  and  take  out  large  core,  rub  over 
with  lemon  juice.  Have  a  syrup  of  1  cupful  sugar,  1  cupful 
water,  juice  of  1  lemon,  boiling  before  putting  apples  in  to 
cook.  Turn  apples  from  time  to  time  until  tender;  remove 
and  set  aside  to  cool.  Stick  salted  almonds  in  the  sides  of 
apples;  fill  core  with  pineapple,  crystallized  cherries  and 
marshmallows.  Serve  as  salad  with  boiled  dressing  or  as 
dessert  with  foamy  sauce. 

Macaroni  Salad 

J^  package  macaroni,  cooked  1  c.  celery 

and  blanched  2  sweet  green  peppers 

1  c.  cabbage,  shredded  2  pimentos 

Marinate  macaroni  with  boiled  dressing.  Just  before 
serving,  combine  the  vegetables  and  garnish  with  boiled 
dressing. 

Fruit  Salad 

One  can  California  white  cherries,  1  can  pineapple,  2 
oranges,  1  large  bell  pepper.  Seed  the  cherries  and  put  a 
blanched  almond  into  each.  Cut  the  pineapple  and  oranges 
into  small  blocks.  Mix  all  together  with  a  pint  of  boiled 
dressing.  Put  in  a  freezer  and  pack  with  ice.  When  ready 
to  serve,  place  on  nest  of  headed  lettuce  on  large  platter  and 
garnish  with  green  pepper  cut  into  very  thin  rings. 

Stuffed  Tomatoes 

Take  large,  well  ripened,  firm  tomatoes,  scoop  all  the 
inside  fruit  out  smoothly,  then  stuff  with  the  following: 
one  cup  boiled  ham,  chopped  fine,  1  hard-boiled  egg  mashed, 
j/s  teaspoonful  prepared  mustard,  1  teaspoonful  of  salt,  a 
dash  of  cayenne  pepper,  2  tablespoonfuls  melted  butter  or 
olive  oil,  2  green  peppers,  chopped  fine,  about  3  tablespoonfuls 
cracker  dust.  Mix  well  together,  fill  the  tomatoes  and  place 
in  ice  cream  freezer,  pack  in  ice  and  let  remain  till  frozen. 
Serve  on  lettuce  leaves,  with  a  dash  of  mayonnaise  dressing. 

Pomegranate  Salad 

Allow  about  2  tablespoonfuls  of  the  separated  pome- 
granate meat  (selecting  dark  red  fruit)  for  each  person. 
Mix  with  a  little  lemon  juice,  and  heap  in  the  center  of  pre- 

78 


Salads — Salad  Dressings 

pared  lettuce  leaves.  Put  a  spoonful  of  highly  seasoned 
mayonnaise  on  top,  through  which  have  previously  been  mixed 
2  or  3  drops  of  scraped-out  onion  juice. 

Orange  Salad 

Prepare  everything  ahead  of  time,  but  do  not  mix  until 
ready  to  send  to  the  table.  Select  lettuce  leaves  thoroughly 
drained.  Seedless  oranges,  peeled,  cut  in  thick  slices,  and 
then  cut  again  into  cubes — nearly  ^  inch  square. 

Make  a  very  highly  seasoned  French  dressing,  richer  than 
usual  in  oil,  and  rather  sweet.  Scrape  in  nearly  a  teaspoonful 
of  onion.  Have  a  generous  allowance  of  dressing.  Pour 
over,  and  mix  with  orange  cubes.  Place  on  the  lettuce  leaves, 
and  serve  at  once.  If  the  lettuce  is  the  hard  or  white  kind, 
it  is  nice  to  shred  just  a  little  of  it  very  fine,  and  mix  with 
the  oranges  when  the  dressing  is  added — but  only  a  very  little. 

Grapefruit  Salad 

(Delicious  for  formal  dinners) 

Remove  sections  of  grapefruit,  leaving  the  walls  intact. 
Fill  these  with  grapefruit,  nut  meats,  orange,  apple  and  figs, 
cut  in  small  cubes.  Pour  over  the  sections  dressing  made 
of  ^2  cup  olive  oil,  1  teaspoon  lemon  juice,  2  tablespoons 
grapefruit  juice,   1  tablespoon  sugar.     Dash   paprika. 

Vegetable  Salad 

2  c.  cabbage  1  small  onion 

1  c.  boiled  potatoes  1  sweet  red  pepper 

1  c.  celery  2  hard-boiled  eggs 

Cut  all  ingredients  fine,  and  mix  well  with  boiled  dressing. 

Green  Salad 

1  canful  peas  1  large  onion 

2  green  peppers  1  tb.  celery  seed 

Drain  the  water  from  the  peas;  add  the  onions  sliced  fine, 
celery  seed  and  salt  and  pepper  to  taste.  Let  stand  about 
1  hour.  Remove  seeds  from  peppers,  cut  the  peppers  into 
rings  and  just  before  serving  the  salad,  decorate  with  the 
pepper  rings  and  boiled  salad  dressing. 

79 


Salads — Salad  Dressings 

Peach  Salad 

Peel  large  peaches  and  cut  into  halves;  remove  the  stones 
and  put  on  ice  till  very  firm  and  cold;  put  them  on  lettuce 
and  put  on  spoon  of  mayonnaise,  mixed  with  a  little  whipped 
cream.     In  the  center  of  each  half  place  a  ball  made  of  cheese. 

Pineapple  Salad 

Cut  into  strips  3  slices  of  Hawaiian  pineapple  and  1 
canned  red  pepper.  Place  on  ice  until  time  of  serving,  then 
place  on  heart  leaves  of  lettuce,  and  partially  cover  with 
cream  mayonnaise,  made  as  follows:  beat  until  stiff  ^2  cup 
heavy  cream,  and  add  3  tablespoonsful  mayonnaise  dressing, 
and  season  with  salt  and  paprika. 

Russian  Salad 

One  cupful  of  cold  potato  cubes,  cut  in  from  ^  to  ^-inch 
blocks;  1  cupful  of  crisp  celery  cut  across  the  grain  in  }^- 
inch  sections;  1  cupful  of  pecan  meats;  the  whites  of  4  hard- 
boiled  eggs  cut  in  small  strips.  Toss  lightly  together,  sprink- 
ling with  }4  teaspoonful  of  salt,  and  a  dash  of  paprika.  Mix 
with  cream  salad  dressing.  Mound  on  a  round  platter;  gar- 
nish with  a  wreath  of  small,  crisp  head  lettuce  leaves  and  sift 
the  4  hard-boiled  egg  yolks  on  top  of  the  mound. 

Prune  Salad 

Chill  stewed  prunes  and  remove  the  stones.  Fill  cavities 
with  peanuts.  Arrange  prunes  in  groups  of  three  in  nests 
of  lettuce  leaves  and  sprinkle  with  finely  chopped  peanuts. 
Serve  French  dressing. 

Roquefort  Cheese  Salad 

Dispose  a  head  of  lettuce  in  a  salad  bowl  and  sprinkle  over 
about  }^  cup  of  Roquefort  cheese,  cut  into  tiny  cubes.  Rub 
a  bowl  with  the  cut  side  of  a  clove  of  garlic;  put  in  ^  tea- 
spoonful  each  of  salt  and  paprika,  then  4  tablespoonfuls 
chili  sauce;  mix  thoroughly;  gradually  beat  in  7  or  8  table- 
spoonfuls  of  olive  oil  and  pour  over  the  lettuce  and  cheese. 

Cheese  and  Vegetable  Salad 

Slice  thin  some  peeled  tomatoes  and  cucumbers.  Make 
a  quantity  of  cream-cheese  balls,  and  heap  these  on  lettuce 

80 


Salads — Salad  Dressings 

hearts  in  the  middle  of  a  flat  dish,  and  put  Httle  piles  of 
alternate  cucumbers  and  tomatoes  around;  cover  them  with 
French  dressing.  The  cheese  balls  may  be  plain  or  mixed 
with  chopped  nuts. 

Cauliflower  Salad 

Take  any  cold  cauliflower  and  break  into  good-sized 
bits  and  lay  on  a  dish;  in  the  middle  put  a  cup  of  cold  cooked 
peas;  sprinkle  with  salt  and  a  little  pepper  and  chill  well; 
in  serving  cover  with  French  dressing,  or  mayonnaise,  or  dot 
the  peas  with  the  mayonnaise. 

Mexican  Salad 

Cut  3  green  sweet  peppers  and  1  small  onion  in  a  chopping 
bowl;  then  add  4  ripe  tomatoes,  chop  fine  and  season  with 
salt,  add  and  mix  thoroughly  one  teaspoonful  of  chili  powder 
and  pour  in  }4  cupful  of  vinegar  and  the  grease  from  4  or 
5  slices  of  fried  bacon.  Serve  in  small  salad  dishes.  This 
makes  a  splendid  relish  for  meats  and  vegetables. 

Cherry  Salad 

Strip  a  piece  of  skin  from  the  side  of  a  large  banana  and 
take  out  fruit  without  breaking  the  remaining  skin.  Wash, 
stone,  and  skin  1  pint  of  large,  sour  cherries;  dust  very  lightly 
with  salt  and  pepper,  and  pour  over  3  tablespoonsfuls  of  olive 
oil  and  1  of  lemon  juice.  Mix  and  put  them  into  the 
banana  skins.  Arrange  on  a  dish  of  shredded  lettuce,  and 
serve.  Use  the  bananas  for  baking,  or  serve  them  raw  with 
cream. 

Salmagundi 

Dress  this  salad  on  a  standing  salad  dish  or  fruit  dish. 
Use  chopped  veal  or  chicken,  hard-boiled  eggs,  whites  and 
yolks  chopped  separately,  sardines  or  anchovies;  tongue, 
pickled  beets  or  red  cabbage;  chopped  pickles  or  capers,  and 
parsley  or  water-cresses.  Prepare  all  of  these  separately 
and  arrange  in  little  rows,  placing  colors  so  they  will  har- 
monize. Dress  with  plain  French  salad  dressing,  using  three 
times  as  much  oil  as  vinegar  or  lemon  juice.  If  sardines  are 
used,  get  the  boneless  sardines.  Grated  orange  or  lemon 
rinds  are  nice  additions.  Salmagundi  is  practically  adapted 
for  night  suppers. 

81 


Salads — Salad  Dressings 

Pepper  as  Salad 

In  the  last  few  years  peppers  are  growing  in  favor  both 
as  a  vegetable  and  for  salads.  For  the  latter  it  is  excellent 
chopped  up  to  give  a  flavoring  to  tomatoes,  and  mixed  in 
with  fresh  cabbage,  served  with  French  dressing. 

For  more  elaborate  effects  use  the  green  peppers  whole, 
stuffed  with  chopped  sweetbreads,  and  serve  on  hearts  of 
lettuce.  Wash  and  cut  off  the  tops  of  the  peppers,  carefully 
remove  the  seeds  and  set  on  the  ice  to  chill. 

Boil  the  sweetbreads  and  season  them  when  still  hot  with 
salt,  pepper,  and  plenty  of  butter.  If  a  small  piece  of  onion 
is  put  in  the  water  in  which  they  are  boiled,  the  flat  taste 
to  which  many  persons  object  in  using  sweetbreads  as  salads, 
is  removed. 

When  cold  cut  in  dice  about  }4  inch  square,  and  mix 
thoroughly  with  a  highly  seasoned  mayonnaise.  Fill  the 
peppers  with  the  sweetbreads  and  put  a  teaspoon  of  may- 
onnaise on  top  of  each  one. 

Texas  Onion  Salad 

On  a  bed  of  lettuce  arrange  a  layer  of  sliced  oranges, 
then  a  layer  of  Texas  onions  sliced  as  thin  as  paper.  They 
should  be  soaked  in  ice  water  in  which  1  tablespoon  of  salt 
and  1  tablespoon  of  sugar  have  been  dissolved.  On  top  of 
this  arrange  cubes  of  grapefruit  and  garnish  with  sweet  red 
pepper  and  spoonful  of  boiled  dressing. 

Cucumber  Salad 

Cut  medium-sized  cucumbers  lengthways;  scoop  out  the 
inside;  mix  with  French  dressing,  bits  of  tomato  and  a  couple 
of  small  onions  sliced.  Return  to  shells;  serve  on  lettuce 
leaves. 

Chicken  Salad  No.  1 

Boil  a  large,  fat  chicken  until  very  tender,  remove  all 
bones  and  skin,  take  4  stalks  of  celery  which  have  stood  sev- 
eral hours  in  cold  water,  2  sweet  cucumber  pickles,  whites 
of  2  hard-boiled  eggs,  tablespoonful  celery  seed.  Chop 
and  mix  with  chicken.  For  dressing  take  the  hard- 
boiled  yolks,  teaspoonful  of  mustard,  ^  teaspoonful  sugar, 
^2  cup  vinegar,  1  cup  of  olive  oil,  mix  together  and  put  on 
stove.  Stir  constantly.  When  hot  pour  over  chicken  and 
set  in  a  cool  place, 

82 


Salads — Salad  Dressings 

Chicken  Salad  with  Almonds — No.  2 

One  good  hen,  ^  pound  of  almonds  blanched,  3  stalks  of 
celery.  Steam  or  cook  chicken  until  tender,  having  when 
ready  to  take  from  fire  1  quart  or  more  stock.  Cut  chicken 
and  celery  same  size.  Cut  almonds  lengthwise,  each  into 
two  or  three  pieces.  Mix  all  lightly  together,  and  add  enough 
cooked  dressing  to  season  well.  Serve  on  lettuce  with  may- 
onnaise or  some  kind  of  dressing  with  whipped  cream.  Stuffed 
olives  may  be  added. 

Chicken  Salad  No.  3 

1  qt.  chicken  stock  }4  pt.  cold  water 

1  small  onion  Yolks  of  6  hard-boiled  eggs 

1  box  Knox  gelatin 

Soak  gelatin  in  cold  water  for  15  minutes.  Put  stock 
and  onions  on  fire,  season  to  taste  with  salt  and  pepper,  bring 
to  a  boil.  Strain  into  dissolved  gelatin.  Pour  in  ring  mold 
and  just  before  it  sets  add  yolks,  run  through  potato  ricer. 
Fill  center  of  ring  with  Chicken  Salad  No.  2,  garnish  with 
cheese.  Or  make  chicken  salad  equal  parts  celery  and 
chicken  diced,  and  boiled  dressing. 

Gelatin  of  Sweetbread  Salad 

Cut  into  small  dice  sufficient  cooked  sweetbreads  to  make 
1^  cups.  Soak  1  level  tablespoon  of  Knox  gelatin  in  ^  cup 
of  cold  chicken  broth  for  15  minutes.  Then  dissolve  it  in 
}^  cup  of  hot  broth.  When  dissolved  and  beginning  to  cool, 
then  add  1  teaspoon  of  salt,  cayenne  or  paprika  to  taste,  and 
the  sweetbreads.  Solid  1  cup  of  cream.  When  the  gelatin 
and  sweetbreads  are  thick,  very  gently  fold  in  the  whipped 
cream.  Turn  into  dish  and  place  on  ice  to  become  firm.  When 
ready  for  serving  lay  on  slice  of  tomato  on  a  lettuce  leaf,  and 
serve  with  mayonnaise.     Garnish  with  a  stuffed  olive. 

Tomato  Jelly  Salad 

To  1  can  tomatoes  add  6  cloves,  2  bay  leaves,  2  slices  of 
onions,  2  teaspoons  salt,  2  teaspoons  sugar,  }4  teaspoon 
pepper;  stew  until  soft,  and  strain;  add  ^  box  gelatin  soaked 
in  cold  water  1  hour;  when  thickened,  but  not  set,  put  into 
wet,  cold  molds. 

83 


Salads — Salad  Dressings 

Fruit  Salad 

Make  1  pint  gelatin  and  place  in  shallow  pan  to  congeal. 
Cut  up  1  grapefruit  and  2  oranges,  1  can  cherries  and  ^  pound 
marshmallows;  cut  gelatin  in  cubes  and  add  to  fruit.  Ar- 
range on  a  lettuce  nest  and  serve  with  boiled  dressing. 

Cucumber  Jelly  with  Tomato  Mayonnaise 

Peel  3  large  cucumbers  and  cut  in  thin  slices.  Put  in 
a  saucepan;  add  1  cup  cold  water  and  boil  until  cucumbers 
are  soft;  then  force  through  a  puree  strainer.  Add  3  table- 
spoonfuls  Knox  granulated  gelatin  dissolved  in  1  cup  water, 
5  drops  onion  juice,  a  few  grains  each  pepper  and  cayenne,  2 
tablespoons  vinegar  and  salt  to  taste.  Color  green;  strain 
through  cheesecloth  and  turn  into  a  border  mold.  Chill 
thoroughly.  Serve  on  lettuce  and  fill  center  with  tomato 
mayonnaise  made  by  adding  tomato  puree  to  mayonnaise 
dressing. 

Tomato  and  Cream  Cheese  Salad 

Choose  medium  sized  tomatoes  and  slice  very  thick  after 
peeling  them.  Drain  well  and  wipe  off  each  slice;  on  top  of 
each  put  a  thick  layer  of  cream  cheese  mixed  with  chopped 
green  peppers,  and  in  the  middle  of  each  put  a  round  of  the 
pepper.  Or,  mix  chopped  red  pimentos  with  the  cheese  and 
use  either  green  or  red  pepper  on  top.  Cover  all  with  French 
dressing  before  serving  and  lay  on  lettuce. 

Mexican  Tomato  Salad 

Rub  a  salad  bowl  with  clove  of  garlic  in  halves.  Line 
the  bowl  with  lettuce.  Peel  and  slice  4  ripe  tomatoes  and 
dispose  these  above  the  lettuce.  Add  1  chopped  green  pep- 
per; a  dozen  olives  cut  in  thin  slices;  sprinkle  over  tomatoes. 
Mix  ^2  teaspoonful  of  salt  with  2  tablespoonfuls  of  lemon 
juice,  then  gradually  beat  in  5  tablespoonfuls  of  olive  oil 
and  turn  over  the  salad. 

Stuffed  Tomato  Salad 

Peel  medium-sized  tomatoes,  remove  slice  from  top  of 
each  and  take  out  seeds  and  some  of  pulp.  Sprinkle  inside 
with  salt,  invert  and  let  stand  in  a  cold  place  one  hour.  Fill 
tomatoes  with  chilled  cucumber  cubes,  moistened  with  may- 
onnaise dressing.  Arrange  on  lettuce  leaves  and  garnish 
top    of   each    with    mayonnaise    dressing,    forced    through    a 

pastry  bag  and  tube, 

84 


Salads — Salad  Dressings 

ChifEonade  Dressing 

In  a  jar,  1  hard-boiled  egg,  1  teaspoonful  chives,  1  table- 
spoonful,  each,  of  green  and  red  peppers,  all  chopped  sepa- 
rately and  fine.  Add  1  teaspoonful  salt,  >^  teaspoonful 
paprika,  }i  teaspoonful  pepper,  J/2  cup  of  oil,  3  tablespoonfuls 
vinegar  and  1  teaspoonful  tarragon  vinegar.  Chill  and  just 
before  serving  shake  thoroughly. 

Grapefruit  Salad 

1  large  grapefruit  1  sweet  red  pepper  cut  fine 

1  small  head  lettuce  1  fresh  tomato  cut  fine  in  small 

pieces 

Serve  with  French  dressing  in  halves  of  grapefruit. 

Simple  Salads 

One-half  peach  filled  with  cheese  or  cherries  on  lettuce. 
One-half  pear  filled  with  Neufchatel  cheese  and  nuts. 

Club  Salad 

This  is  a  novel  and  appetizing  dish  which  Is  easily  pre- 
pared. For  each  individual  salad  required,  saute  3, rounds 
of  bread  in  hot  butter  until  crisp  and  brown.  Put  2  of  these 
together  with  a  filling  of  minced  chicken;  spread  the  top  with 
finely  chopped  celery  and  walnut  meats,  and  lay  on  the  third 
round  of  bread.  Garnish  this  with  slices  of  radish,  place  the 
whole  on  a  bed  of  lettuce  leaves,  and  serve  with  mayonnaise. 

Fruit  Salad 

4  seedless  oranges  1  grapefruit 

J/2  lb.  Malaga  grapes  2  pears,  canned,  in  halves 

^  can  pineapple,  sliced  ^  c.  maraschino  cherries 

Peel,  remove  all  white  skin  from  oranges,  and  cut  In 
quite  large  pieces,  peel  and  split  grapes  and  remove  seeds, 
cut  pineapple  in  small  dice,  peel  and  pull  apart  grapefruit 
in  quite  large  pieces,  cut  pears  in  large  dice,  cut  cherries  in 
4  pieces.  Put  all  fruit  in  colander  to  drain,  and  afterwards 
mix  with  dressing. 

Egg  Salad 

Boil  7  eggs  till  hard  cooked,  and  when  cold  shell  them, 
cut  each  through  the  center  and  remove  the  yolks.     Next 

85 


Salads — Salad  Dressings 

make  a  mixture  as  follows:  One  tablespoonful  of  chopped 
ham,  6  chopped  olives,  10  cooked  mushrooms  chopped  fine, 
the  yolks  of  the  eggs  and  a  high  seasoning  of  salt,  pepper  and 
a  dash  of  curry  powder.  Fill  cavities  of  the  egg  with  this, 
and  replace  together.  Stick  the  eggs  full  of  cloves,  place  on 
rings  of  green  pepper  and  serve  garnished  with  mayonnaise. 

Normandy  Salad 

Mash  2  cooked  egg  yolks  smooth  and  blend  with  2  table- 
spoons c'of  olive  oil,  then  add  2  tablespoons  of  cream,  1  of 
tarragon  vinegar  and  seasoning  of  salt,  paprika  and  onion 
juice.     Beat  vigorously  and  pour  over  salad  materials. 

Cucumber  Aspic 

1  tb.  Knox  granulated  gelatin  .             Equal  quantities  cut  in  small 

1  c.  cold  water  cubes: 

1  c.  vinegar  Tomatoes 

1  t.  salt  Cucumbers 

1  t.  sugar  Celery                 >  2  cups 

J4  t.  white  pepper  Apples 

Dash  cayenne  Green  peppers 
A  small  bit  of  onion 

Soften  the  gelatin  in  the  cupful  of  water,  and  dissolve 
in  the  boiling  vinegar,  to  which  have  been  added  the  sugar, 
salt,  white  pepper  and  cayenne.  Grate  enough  cucumbers 
to  make  a  tablespoon  of  juice,  and  add  to  gelatin  mixture 
when  cooled  but  not  set.  Add  desired  vegetables  to  the 
gelatin  just  before  it  sets.  Dip  mold  in  cold  water  before 
filling  with  the  aspic  and  dip  the  mold  in  warm  water  for  a 
second  before  removing  the  molded  gelatin.  Garnish  with 
celery  and  lettuce  hearts. 

Tomato  Aspic  Salad 

Dissolve  2  tablespoonfuls  of  Knox  gelatin  in  J/2  cupful  of  cold 
water.  Turn  the  contents  of  a  can  of  tomatoes  (or  }4  dozen 
fresh  tomatoes)  into  a  porcelain  lined  sauce  pan;  add  1  tea- 
spoonful  of  cloves  and  allspice,  2  tablespoonfuls  of  sugar, 
J^  teaspoonful  of  black  pepper,  and  salt  to  taste.  Cook 
about  20  minutes,  strain  through  a  sieve,  and  put  on  the  fire 
again  to  boil;  then  mix  with  the  soaked  gelatin  and  strain. 
Turn  into  molds  and  set  on  ice  for  2  hours. 

86 


Salads — Salad  Dressings 
Pimento  Celery  Salad 

1  tb.  Knox  gelatin  1  t.  salt 

1  c.  boiling  water  1  tb.  chopped  almonds 

^  c.  vinegar  2  tb.  lemon  juice 

Strain  and  cool,  when  beginning  to  stiffen  add  celery, 
apples,  1  tablespoon  raisins,  1  can  pimentos.  Turn  into 
mold  and  chill  thoroughly.  Serve  sliced  with  dressing,  or 
mold  in  individuals  and  serve  on  lettuce  hearts. 

Mexican  Salad 

1  can  tomatoes,  stewed  and  1  t.  cinnamon 

strained  1  t.  sugar 

1  t.  salt  1  t.  allspice 

1  pkg.  Knox  gelatin 

Be  sure  to  have  4  cupfuls  of  tomato  juice.  Add  season- 
ing and  then  add  the  gelatin,  which  has  been  soaked  for  15 
minutes  in  ^  cupful  water.  Pour  into  high,  oblong  molds 
and  chill.  When  ready  to  serve,  arrange  on  lettuce  leaves. 
Slice  three  cucumbers  with  round  notched  cutter;  take  out 
the  centers  and  put  a  stuffed  olive  in  each.  Decorate  the 
salad  with  these  and  salad  dressing. 

Bohemian  Salad 

Mix  chopped  beets,  boiled  potatoes,  and  chopped  cress. 
Garnish  with  sardines,  and  serve  with  French  dressing. 
Pleasant  combinations  for  summer  salads  are:  celery  seed 
with  new  cabbage,  sorrel  with  veal,  Chinese  soy  with  rice 
and  hard-boiled  eggs,  garlic  with  asparagus,  mint  with  string 
beans,  sour  fruits  with  bananas,  pineapple  with  cheese,  cauli- 
flower with  Spanish  sweet  peppers,  potatoes  with  beets, 
cucumbers  with  tomatoes,  peas  with  tomatoes,  chopped 
cucumbers  with  tomatoes,  asparagus  tips,  dusted  with  Par- 
mesan cheese,  with  tomatoes. 

Honolulu  Salad 

Put  a  slice  of  raw  or  canned  pineapple  on  a  nest  of  lettuce 
leaves.  Mash  J/2  cupful  of  cottage  or  Neufchatel  cheese  with 
a  Spanish  pimento;  add  a  dash  each  of  salt  and  cayenne  or 
tabasco.  Form  into  balls  the  size  of  walnuts,  and  place  one 
in  the  center  of  each  slice  of  pineapple;  garnish  with  roses 
of  mayonnaise  dressing.  For  6  slices,  make  }4  cupful  of 
mayonnaise,  and  work  into  it  4  tablespoonfuls  of  dissolved 
gelatin.     The  gelatin  must  be  cold,  but  not  stiff. 

87 


Salads — Salad  Dressings 

Astoria  Salad 

4  large  figs  1  c.  cream  cheese,  melted 

1  t.  lemon  juice  8  large  dates 

^2  c.  blanched  almonds 

Add  the  lemon  juice  to  the  cream  cheese,  with  a  pinch  of 
salt,  and  beat  thoroughly.  Remove  the  stones  from  the 
dates  and  add  the  figs  and  almonds,  chopping  all  together 
and  beating  to  a  smooth  paste;  add  the  cheese  mixture  and 
mix  well  together,  shape  into  dainty  molds  or  balls  and 
serve  on  lettuce  leaves  with  Salad  Dressing  mixed  with  an 
equal  amount  of  whipped  cream.  When  figs  are  unobtain- 
able, use  1  cup  maraschino  cherries  instead. 

English  Waldorf  Salad 

6  apples,  chopped  1  c.  celery,  cut  small 

1  c.  broken  meat 

Dressing — One  egg,  beaten,  add  1  teaspoon  mustard, 
2  tablespoonfuls  of  lemon  juice.  Sugar  to  taste.  Cook  in 
double  boiler.     When  cool  add   1  cup  good  whipped  cream. 

Fruit  Mayonnaise  Aspic 

1  large  grapefruit  1  can  of  sliced  pineapple  (cut) 

1  can  large  white  cherries  5^  lb.  almonds 

1  t.  gelatin 

Mix  the  fruit  with  enough  of  the  juices  to  cover  and  add 
mayonnaise,  then  gelatin,  dissolve  in  a  little  of  juice  held 
over  hot  water,  stir  and  put  in  mold  to  cool. 

Cheese  Salad 

Season  Neufchatel  cheese  with  salt  and  pepper,  add  a 
little  cream  if  cheese  is  too  hard.  Mix  in  chopped  pecans, 
roll  into  small  balls,  then  roll  balls  into  finely  cut  nuts,  and 
place  in  cavity  of  white  California  pears.  Serve  in  lettuce 
leaves  with  mayonnaise. 

Combination  Salad 

Peel  and  cut  into  bits  6  large  tomatoes  (no  juice).  Add 
J4  as  much  finely  cut  celery,  1  large  cucumber,  sliced,  1  green 
pepper  cut  fine,  grated  onion  to  taste,  dash  of  paprika,  1 
teaspoon  Worcestershire  sauce,  }i  teaspoon  grated  horse- 
radish, salt  to  taste. 

Mix  thoroughly  with  one  cup  boiled  salad  dressing,  fold 
in  lightly  whipped  cream.  Pack  in  ice  2  hours.  Serve  in 
chilled  tomato  cups,  on  lettuce  or  serve  sliced  with  dressing. 

88 


Salads — Salad  Dressings 

White  Salad  Dressing 

}4  pt.  milk  2  tb.  vinegar 

1  t.  cornstarch  3  egg  whites,  creamed 

1  t.  crisco  Salt  and  pepper  to  taste 

Cook  milk  and  cornstarch.  Take  from  fire  and  add  salt, 
pepper,  crisco  and  vinegar.  Add  the  3  egg  whites  beaten 
stiff  and  some  cream. 

Thousand  Island  Salad  Dressing 

1  c.  mayonnaise  dressing  2  pimentos,  chopped  fine 

1  tb.  chili  sauce  1  green  pepper,  chopped  fine 

1  t.  lemon  juice  1  small  cucumber,  chopped  fine 

1  t.  horse-radish 

To  the  mayonnaise  add  the  other  ingredients  and  keep 
chilled;  serve  with  any  combination  salad. 

Cucumber  Cream  Dressing 

One  cup  of  the  Boiled  Dressing,  ^  cup  of  whipped  cream 
whipped  lightly  together,  and  just  before  serving  add  1  cup 
of  peeled  chilled  cucumber  chopped  very  fine  and  lightly 
dried  between  soft  cloth.     This  is  delicious  with  aspics. 

Boiled  Dressing 

2  egg  yolks,  beaten  well  1  large  tb.  butter 

^  c.  lemon  juice 

Boil  in  double  boiler  until  thick,  cool,  add  a  little  salt 
and  dash  of  cayenne  pepper,  cup  of  whipped  cream. 

Dressing 

Rub  together  1  tablespoon  flour,  3  tablespoonfuls  crisco, 
add  ^  cup  water  and  cook.  Mix  3  tablespoonfuls  sugar, 
2  teaspoonfuls  salt,  1  teaspoon  dry  mustard  and  ]/2  cup 
vinegar  and  cook.  Add  to  this  the  water  mixture  and  1 
beaten  egg  and  cook  until  smooth. 

Celery  Dressing 

Cook  2  slices,  each,  of  onion  and  carrot,  ^2  slice  of  lean 
bacon  or  ham,  J/2  stalk  of  celery,  a  branch  of  parsley,  all  cut 
fine,  with  a  bit  of  bay  leaf,  in  3  tablespoonfuls  butter  until 
slightly  browned;  add  2  tablespoonfuls  flour  and  stir  until 
frothy,  then  add  a  cup  of  thick  tomato  puree,  and  stir  until 
boiling;  let  simmer  until  reduced  to  one-half,  skimmering  as 
needed.  Strain  and  set  aside  to  become  cold.  When  ready 
to  serve  fold  it  into  ^  cup  of  mayonnaise  dressing. 
7  89 


Salads — Salad  Dressings 

Cooked  Salad  Dressing 

^  t.  mustard  1  egg  yolk 

K  t.  salt  ^  c.  milk 

Few  grains  cayenne  1  t.  melted  crisco 

2  t.  flour  j4  c.  hot  vinegar 

1  t.  sugar 

Mix  dry  ingredients  in  a  saucepan.  Stir  into  them  the 
egg  yolk,  crisco  and  milk.  Stir  the  mixture  over  hot  water 
until  it  begins  to  thicken;  then  stir  in  vinegar,  a  few  drops 
at  a  time.     When  as  thick  as  thick  cream,  strain  and  cool. 

Russian  Salad  Dressing 

1  c.  mayonnaise  dressing  1  t.  green  peppers,  chopped  fine 

1  t.  pimentos,  chopped  fine  ^  t.  paprika 

1  t.  tarragon  vinegar  J4  t.  salt 

^2  c.  olive  oil  }4  c.  chili  sauce 

Prepare  the  mayonnaise  in  the  usual  way,  then  to  a  cup 
of  dressing  gradually  beat  in  ^  cup  of  oil,  then  the  chili 
sauce,  seasonings,  vinegar  and  fine  chopped  vegetables. 

Boiled  Dressing 

Yolks  of  10  eggs  may  be  used,  or  yolks  of  5,  in  which  case 
add  1  tablespoon  flour  to  dry  ingredients. 

1  t.  prepared  mustard  }4  t.  white  pepper 

1  t.  salt  ^  c.  sugar 

1  t.  celery  seed  ^  c.  melted  crisco 

Dash  of  cayenne 

Beat  yolks  very  light.  Add  sugar  and  other  dry  ingredi- 
ents. Pour  melted  crisco  in  last,  beat  in  well.  Have  boil- 
ing in  double  boiler  1  cup  of  milk-white  vinegar.  Pour  egg 
mixture  into  boiling  vinegar  and  stir  until  thick.  This  keeps 
indefinitely  if  sealed  in  a  glass  jar.  When  ready  to  use  add 
1  cup  whipped  cream  or  }4  cup  of  sweet  cream  to  1  cup  of 
dressing. 

Boiled  Salad  Dressing 

1  tb.  sugar  1  c.  milk 

1  tb.  flour  }4  c.  vinegar 

1  tb.  butter  Pinch  cayenne 

1  t.  mustard  3  eggs  (beaten  lightly) 

Add  dry  ingredients  to  eggs.  Add  butter  to  milk,  pour 
mixture  into  boiling  vinegar  and  beat  until  thick.  Remove 
and  continue  to  beat  until  cool.  Add  ^  cup  whipped  cream 
before  serving  if  desired. 

90 


Salads — Salad  Dressings 
Sour  Cream  Dressing 

1  c.  sour  cream  1  t.  salt 

1  t.  sugar  3  tb.  vinegar 

1  tb.  lemon  juice  Pinch  cayenne  pepper 

Place  salt,  pepper,  and  vinegar  together  in  bowl.  Mix 
well;  add  lemon  juice,  then  vinegar.  When  perfectly  smooth, 
add  cream.     Stir  well  and  when  ready  to  serve,  set  on  ice. 

Tomato  Mayonnaise 

Tomato  mayonnaise  is  equally  tasty  with  an  egg  salad. 
Bring  }4  can  tomatoes  to  the  boiling  point  and  let  simmer 
until  very  thick,  then  rub  through  a  sieve:  there  should  be 
2  tablespoonfuls  of  the  tomato  puree.  Add  to  a  mayonnaise 
dressing  with  >^  tablespoon  each  of  capers,  parsley,  pickles, 
and  olive,  finely  chopped. 

French  Dressing 

Teaspoonful  of  salt,  ys  teaspoon  pepper,  5  tablespoonfuls 
of  olive  oil,  2  tablespoonfuls  vinegar,  and  a  few  drops  of 
onion  or  lemon  juice  if  liked.  Shake  thoroughly  before 
using. 

French  Mustard  Dressing 

Take  3  tablespoonfuls  of  mustard,  1  tablespoon  sugar, 
and  1  egg.  Mix  to  a  smooth  paste  and  gradually  pour  in 
a  cup  of  vinegar.     Let  it  come  to  a  boil,  stirring  meanwhile. 

The  Making  of  Mayonnaise 

Often  troubles  the  inexperienced,  while  in  reality,  if  the 
egg  is  fresh  and  cold,  the  oil  thoroughly  chilled,  and  the  work 
done  quickly  and  deftly,  the  process  is  a  simple  one.  Either 
a  silver  fork,  wire  whisk,  small  wooden  spoon,  or  Dover  egg- 
beater  may  be  used  in  its  preparation.  Oil  for  the  making 
of  mayonnaise  should  be  thoroughly  chilled,  and  the  eggs 
should  be  fresh  and  cold. 

It  is  desirable,  although  not  necessary,  for  bowl  to  be 
placed  in  a  larger  bowl  of  cracked  ice  or  ice-water. 

Mix  ^  teaspoon  of  mustard,  ^  teaspoon  of  salt,  J4 
teaspoon  powdered  sugar,  and  a  few  grains  of  cayenne,  add 
yolk  of  ^  egg  and  stir  until  well  blended,  then  add  a  few 
drops  of  vinegar;  then  add  oil  gradually  at  first,  drop  by  drop, 

91 


Salads — Salad  Dressings 

and  stir  constantly.  As  mixture  thickens,  thin  with  vinegar 
until  that  is  used,  then  use  lemon  juice.  Add  oil  alternately 
with  vinegar  or  lemon  juice  until  3^  teaspoon  lemon  juice, 
}^  teaspoon  vinegar  and  }^  cup  of  oil  have  been  used,  stirring 
or  beating  constantly.  After  the  mixture  is  well  thickened 
the  oil  may  be  added  in  a  slow,  steady  stream,  while  the 
beating  is  continued  vigorously. 

During  the  Making  of  Mayonnaise 

If  the  conditions  are  not  right,  the  mixture  becomes 
curdled.  The  same  thing  may  take  place  if  too  long  a  time 
is  taken  in  its  preparation.  Should  it  become  curdled,  a 
smooth  consistency  may  be  restored  by  taking  remaining 
half  of  egg  yolk  and  adding  mixture  slowly  to  it,  beating  con- 
stantly. A  mayonnaise,  when  done,  should  be  stiff  enough 
to  hold  in  shape. 


92 


CHAPTER  XI 


CiH.£CSG 
Cheese  Fondue 

1  c.  scalded  milk  1  tb.  butter 

1  c.  soft,  stale  bread  crumbs  ^  t.  salt 

^  lb.  mild  cheese,  cut  in  pieces  3  egg  yolks 

3  egg  whites 

Mix  first  five  ingredients.  Add  yolks  of  eggs  beaten  until 
light.  Cut  and  fold  in  whites.  Pour  into  baking  dish  greased 
with  crisco  and  bake  about  20  minutes  in  a  moderate  oven. 
Serve  at  once. 

Cheese  can  be  prevented  from  molding  by  wringing  a  cloth 
out  of  vinegar  and  wrapping  it  around  the  cheese,  and  putting 
the  whole  in  a  large  paper  bag.  Then  put  in  a  cool  place, 
and  the  cheese  will  keep  in  fine  condition. 

Cheese  Straws 

1  c.  grated  cheese  Yolk  of  1  egg 

1  c.  flour  Salt  and  cayenne  to  taste 

1  tb.  butter  Dash  of  paprika 

Mix  flour,  cheese  and  salt  together.  Moisten  with  beaten 
yolks  and  melted  butter.  Work  into  paste,  chill  on  ice;  roll 
out  in  a  thin  sheet;  cut  in  strips  5  inches  long,  ys  inch  wide. 
Bake  a  light  brown  in  a  hot  oven.  Little  rings  can  be  made 
of  the  strips. 

Cheese  Straws 

l4  lb.  cheese  2  egg  yolks 

Season  with  salt  and  cayenne 

Rub  to  paste  with  back  of  spoon,  add  enough  flour  to  make 
lignt  dough,  place  on  ice  several  hours,  roll  out  thin  and  cut 
in  strips.  The  new  noodle  cutter  is  fine  for  this,  as  it  cuts 
uniform  strips.     Bake  in  moderate  oven. 

Cheese  Straws 

Sift  1  cup  flour  and  mix  4  tablespoons  of  crisco  and  stir 
with  a  fork.  Add  1  cup  grated  cheese  and  a  teaspoonful  of 
salt  and  1  teaspoonful  chili  powder.  Lastly  add  3  tablespoon- 
fuls  ice  water,  roll  on  a  board,  about  )4  ii^ch  thick,  cut  in  narrow 
strips  and  bake  in  a  quick  oven. 

93 


Cheese 


Cheese  Pudding 


1  c.  milk  1  t.  melted  butter 

1  c.  bread  crumbs  ^  t.  salt 

)4  lb.  grated  cheese  3  eggs 

Mix  bread  crumbs,  cheese,  butter,  salt  and  milk,  add  eggs 
beaten  until  light.  Pour  in  baking  dish  that  has  been  greased 
and  bake  20  minutes  in  a  moderate  oven. 


Cheese  Souffle 

}4  c.  fresh  bread  crumbs  1>^  t.  crisco 

3^  c.  milk  ^2  t.  salt 

2  tb.  grated  cheese  1  egg 

Few  grains  pepper 

Cook  the  bread  crumbs  in  the  milk  (in  double  boiler)  until 
soft.  Add  the  cheese,  crisco,  salt  and  pepper,  and  cook  1 
minute.  Separate  the  yolk  from  the  white.  Beat  the  yolk 
and  add  to  the  mixture.  Fold  in  the  stiffly  beaten  white  last, 
pour  into  oiled  ramekin  and  bake  in  a  hot  oven  for  20  minutes. 
Serve  immediately. 


Macaroni  with  Cheese 

Break  yi  pound  macaroni  into  inch  pieces  and  put  into 
saucepan  of  boiling  water;  boil  20  minutes,  add  a  little  salt 
while  boiling,  drain,  put  into  a  well  buttered  dish  in  layers, 
with  pepper  to  taste,  and  bits  of  cheese  sprinkled  over  each 
layer,  and  bits  of  butter.  When  the  dish  is  full,  pour  over 
^  cup  of  milk  or  cream.     Bake  15  minutes. 


Cheese  Souffle 

3  eggs  5  tb.  honey 

^  t.  salt  yi  c.  sour  cream 

Use  either  Neufchatel  or  cream,  10-ct.  size. 

Beat  cream  and  cheese  until  smooth,  add  honey  so  that  it 
is  quite  blended,  add  yolks,  then  beaten  whites.  Fill  pastry 
cases  and  bake  25  minutes.  They  will  puff  over  cases.  If 
preferred  can  bake  in  dish  without  cases.  Serve  with  cheese 
sauce  made  by  beating  thick  sweet  cream  and  cheese,  first 
blending  together  with  spoon,  then  with  beater, 

94 


Cheese 

Cheese  Dreams 

2  t.  baking  powder  1  tb.  crisco 

}4  t,  salt  K  c-  milk 

1  c.  flour  ^  c.  cheese 

Mix  and  sift  in  the  dry  ingredients.  Work  in  the  crisco 
lightly  with  the  tips  of  the  fingers.  Add  liquid  gradually 
and  then  sprinkle  in  the  cheese,  which  has  been  grated.  Toss 
on  floured  board,  and  roll  out  }i  inch  in  thickness  and  cut  with 
small  cutter.  Bake  in  hot  oven  10  minutes  and  serve  hot 
with  salad  course. 

Cheese  Fritters 

Mix  5  tablespoonfuls  flour,  the  yolk  of  1  egg  and  enough 
sweet  milk  to  make  a  batter.  Then  add  a  pinch  of  salt  and 
pepper,  2  tablespoonfuls  grated  cheese  and  the  white  of  the 
egg  beaten.  Beat  this  mixture  well,  then  drop  in  small  spoon- 
fuls in  hot  crisco  in  a  kettle  and  fry  golden  brown  and  serve 
very  hot. 

Cheese  Gingerbread  No.  1 

1  c.  molasses  2  c.  flour 

4  oz.  cheese  2  t.  ginger 

1  t.  soda  >2  t.  salt 

J^  c.  water 

Heat  the  molasses  and  cheese  in  a  double  boiler  until  the 
cheese  is  melted.  Add  the  soda  and  stir  vigorously.  Mix  and 
sift  dry  ingredients  and  add  them  to  the  molasses  and  cheese 
alternately  with  water.  Bake  15  minutes  in  small  buttered 
tins. 

Cheese  Gingerbread  No.  2 

J4  c.  molasses  1  t.  soda 

}4  c.  sugar  2  t.  ginger 

4  oz.  cheese  J^  t.  salt 

2  c.  flour  ^  c.  water 

Rub  the  cheese  and  sugar  together.  Add  the  molasses. 
Mix  and  sift  the  dry  ingredients  and  add  them  to  the  cheese 
mixture  alternately  with  the  water. 

Cheese  Custard 

1  c.  grated  cheese  Yolks  of  2  eggs 

^  c.  cream  or  rich  milk  A  speck  of  salt  and  paprika 

Mix  the  cream  and  cheese  and  heat  until  the  cheese  is 
melted.  Remove  from  the  fire  and  add  the  yolks  of  the  eggs. 
Bake  in  paper  cases  or  buttered  ramekins.  Serve  with  jelly 
or  preserves. 

95 


Cheese 


Baked  Rice  and  Cheese 


1  c.  uncooked  rice  and  2  tb.  flour 

4  c.  milk,  or  }4  lb.  cheese 

3  c.  of  cooked  rice  and  J/2  t.  salt 

1  c.  milk 

If  uncooked  rice  is  used  it  should  be  cooked  in  3  cups  milk. 
Make  a  sauce  of  1  cup  milk,  add  the  flour,  cheese,  and  salt. 
Into  a  buttered  baking  dish  put  alternately  layers  of  the 
cooked  rice  and  the  sauce.  Cover  with  buttered  crumbs  and 
bake  until  the  crumbs  are  brown. 

Nut  and  Cheese  Roast 

1  c.  grated  cheese  1  tb.  butter 

1  c.  chopped  English  walnuts  Juice  of  half  lemon 

1  c.  bread  crumbs  Salt  and  pepper 

2  tb.  chopped  onions 

Cook  the  onion  in  the  butter  and  a  little  water  until  it  is 
tender.  Mix  the  other  ingredients  and  moisten  with  water, 
using  the  water  in  which  the  onion  has  been  cooked.  Pour 
into  a  shallow  baking  dish  and  brown  in  oven. 

Cheese  Souffle 

1  tb.  butter  }4  t.  salt 

3  tb.  flour  }4  c.  grated  cheese 

J^  c.  milk  (scalded)  3  eggs 

A  speck  of  cayenne 

Melt  the  butter,  add  the  flour,  and  when  well  mixed,  add 
gradually  the  scalded  milk.  Then  add  salt,  cayenne,  and 
cheese.  Remove  from  the  fire  and  add  the  yolks  of  the  eggs 
beaten  until  lemon  colored.  Cool  the  mixture  and  fold  into  it 
the  whites  of  the  eggs  beaten  until  stiff".  Pour  into  an  oiled 
baking  dish  and  bake  20  minutes  in  a  slow  oven.  Serve  at 
once. 

Cheese  Souffle  with  Pastry 

2  eggs  J^  c.  Swiss  cheese  cut  into  small 
^  c.  thin  cream  pieces 

1  c.  grated  cheese  Salt,  cayenne  pepper  and  nut- 

meg 

Add  the  eggs  to  the  cream  and  beat  slightly,  then  add  the 
cheese  and  seasoning.  Bake  15  minutes  in  a  hot  oven,  in 
patty  tins  lined  with  puff"  paste. 

96 


Cheese 
Cheese  with  Potato  Puffs 

1  c.  mashed  potatoes  ^  t.  salt 

^  c.  milk  ^  c.  grated  cheese 

1  egg 

Beat  the  potatoes  and  milk  together  until  thoroughly 
mixed.  Add  the  eggs  and  the  salt  and  beat  thoroughly. 
Finally  add  the  cheese.  Bake  in  muffin  tins  in  a  slow  oven  10 
or  15  minutes. 

A  similar  dish  may  be  made  by  scooping  out  the  inside  of  a 
baked  potato  and  mixing  it  with  cheese  as  above.  Fill  the 
potato-skin  shell  with  the  mixture,  return  to  the  oven,  and 
bake  until  light  brown. 

Cheese  Sauce  No.  1 

To  1  cup  white  sauce,  add  1  cup  grated  cheese,  1  teaspoon 
Worcestershire  sauce,  ^  teaspoon  mustard  (dry)  or  ^  tea- 
spoon prepared  mustard,  1  yolk  of  egg,  beaten  into  sauce,  and 
f^  cup  double  cream. 

Cheese  Sauce  No.  2 

Same  as  Cheese  Sauce  No.  1,  except  that  2  cupfuls  of 
grated  cheese  or  8  ounces  are  used.  They  may  be  used  upon 
toast  as  a  substitute  for  Welsh  rarebit. 

Cheese  Sauce  No.  3 

Same  as  Cheese  Sauce  No.  2,  save  that  2  tablespoonfuls  of 
melted  butter  are  mixed  with  the  flour  before  the  latter  is  put 
into  the  milk.  This  sauce  is,  therefore,  rich  in  fat  and  has  only 
a  mild  flavor  of  cheese. 

French  Spiced  Cheese 

}4  lb.  cream  cheese  }4  c.  milk  or  cream 

1  finely  chopped  tomato  2  tb.  olive  oil 

1  t.  paprika  Salt  to  taste 

On  a  board  chop  the  cheese  and  work  it  with  a  broad 
kitchen  knife  into  a  smooth  paste.  Add  all  the  ingredients, 
and  work  it  more  with  the  knife  until  thoroughly  mixed. 
Garnish  with  small  olives  and  put  on  ice.  Serve  either  with 
rye  bread,  crackers  or  toast. 

97 


Cheese 


Corn  and  Cheese  Souffle 


1  t.  butter  1  c.  chopped  corn 

1  t.  chopped  green  pepper                 1  c.  grated  cheese 
j^  c.  flour  3  eggs 

2  c.  milk  }4  t.  salt 

Melt  the  butter  and  cook  the  pepper  thoroughly  in  it. 
Make  a  sauce  out  of  the  flour,  milk,  and  grated  cheese;  add  the 
corn,  chopped  yolks  and  seasonings;  cut  and  fold  in  the  whites 
beaten  stiffly,  turn  into  a  buttered  baking  dish  and  bake  in  a 
moderate  oven  30  minutes. 

Made  with  skimmed  milk  and  with  crisco,  this  dish  has  a 
food  value  slightly  in  excess  of  a  pound  of  beef  and  a  pound  of 
potatoes.     Calculated  cost  about  20  cents. 

Cheese  and  Macaroni  Loaf 

J^  c.  macaroni  broken  into  1  t.  each  of  chopped  onion 

small  pieces  and  parsley 

1  c.  milk  3  eggs 

1  c.  soft  bread  crumbs  1  t.  salt 

1  tb.  butter  ^  c.  grated  cheese 

1  tb.  chopped  green  pepper 

Cook  the  macaroni  in  boiling  salted  water  until  tender,  and 
rinse  in  cold  water.  Cook  the  parsley,  onion  and  pepper  in  a 
little  water  with  the  butter.  Pour  off  the  water  or  allow  it  to 
boil  away.  Beat  the  egg  white  and  yolk  separately.  Mix  all 
the  ingredients,  cutting  and  folding  in  the  stiffly  beaten  whites 
at  the  last.  Turn  the  mixture  into  oiled  dish;  set  the  baking 
dish  into  a  pan  of  hot  water,  and  bake  in  a  moderate  oven  from 
^  to  ^  hour.     Serve  with  tomato  sauce. 

Pimento  and  Cheese  Roast 

2  c.  cooked  lima  beans  1  can  pimentos,  chopped 
}4  lb.  cream  cheese  Bread  crumbs 

Put  the  first  three  ingredients  through  a  meat  chopper. 
Mix  thoroughly  and  add  bread  crumbs  until  it  is  stiff  enough 
to  form  into  a  roll.  Brown  in  the  oven,  basting  occasionally 
with  melted  butter  and  water. 

Shapleigh  Cheese 

Cut  stale  bread  in  ^  slices;  remove  crusts;  spread  with 
butter,  and  cut  crosswise  into  finger-shaped  pieces;  stand  the 

98 


Cheese 

pieces  close  together  around  the  edge  of  a  buttered  pudding 
dish.  Pour  in  the  following  mixture  and  bake  in  a  hot  oven 
35  minutes.     Serve  very  hot. 

Beat  2  eggs  slightly  and  add  1  cup  thin  cream,  1  tablespoon 
butter,  1  teaspoon  salt,  ^  teaspoon  mustard,  )4  teaspoon 
paprika,  a  few  grains  cayenne  and  ^  pound  mild  cheese  cut 
in  small  pieces. 

Nut  and  Cheese  Loaf 

Two  cups  chopped  English  walnuts,  2  cups  grated  cheese. 
Mix  alternately  with  butter  and  salt  to  taste.  Add  enough 
sweet  milk  to  barely  cover  and  bake  about  30  minutes.  This 
can  be  served  either  hot  or  cold  and  is  a  good  substitute  for 
a  meat  dish. 

Cheese  Balls 

Make  little  balls  of  cream  or  cottage  cheese,  adding  salt, 
pvepper  and  a  little  cream,  if  necessary,  to  roll  them.  When 
they  are  finished,  put  a  small  fork  or  skewer  in  each  one  in 
turn,  and  so  dip  and  roll  it  in  American  cheese  till  the  white 
surface  is  completely  covered  with  the  yellow  coating. 

Frozen  Cheese  with  Figs 

Mash  2  good-sized  cream  cheeses  and  beat  them  with  J/2 
cup  of  stiffly  beaten  cream  till  the  whole  is  smooth;  sweeten 
to  taste;  put  into  a  covered  pail  or  mold  and  bury  in  ice  and 
salt  4  hours.  When  time  to  serve  slice  the  shape  in  pieces  2 
inches  or  more  thick  and  from  these  cut  rounds  with  the  bis- 
cuit cutter;  make  a  slight  depression  in  the  side  of  each  by 
pressing  a  spoon  on  it,  and  into  this  put  a  rich  preserved  fig, 
stem  end  up. 


99 


CHAPTER  XII 

RICE 

Steamed  Rice 

Look  the  rice  over  carefully,  and  place  in  a  strainer  set 
in  a  bowl  of  cold  water.  Wash  it  with  the  hands,  changing  the 
water  as  often  as  is  necessary  until  all  cloudiness  disappears. 
Soak  for  1  hour.  Have  the  water  boiling  vigorously,  add 
salt,  drain  the  rice  and  sprinkle  it  in  so  slowly  that  the  water 
does  not  stop  boiling.  Boil  violently  for  15  minutes  but  be 
careful  not  to  overcook;  when  no  hard  core  can  be  felt  on 
pinching  the  kernel  between  the  thumb  and  finger,  it  is  done. 
Pour  into  a  colander,  saving  the  rice  water  for  soup.  Set  the 
colander  over  a  pot  containing  a  little  boiling  water  or  in  a 
cool  oven  and  let  it  steam  until  ready  to  serve.  Each  grain 
should  be  large  and  perfectly  distinct. 

To  Boil  Rice 

Pick  out  all  discolored  grains;  wash  it  well  in  two  waters; 
drop  it  into  a  kettle  of  boiling  water  previously  salted;  then 
set  the  kettle  on  the  back  of  the  stove  over  a  slow  fire,  and  let 
the  rice  simmer  until  done.  One  cupful  of  rice  will  require  1 
quart  of  water.  Never  stir  it  and  when  it  is  thoroughly  cooked, 
each  kernel  will  stand  apart  by  itself,  plump  and  whole.  When 
done  pour  immediately  into  a  colander,  and  set  it  upon  the 
coolest  part  of  the  stove.  Toss  it  up  lightly  when  put  in  the 
colander.  It  should  be  boiled  in  an  open  stew-pan.  A  table- 
spoon of  lemon  juice  added  to  the  water  in  which  rice  is 
boiling  will  aid  in  making  the  rice  whiter  and  keeping  the 
grains  separate. 

Rice  Omelet 

Beat  a  cup  of  boiled  rice  and  2  cups  of  milk  to  a  smooth 
paste.  Add  2  eggs  well  beaten,  salt  and  pepper  to  taste. 
Fry  until  brown;  cover  with  powdered  sugar  and  serve  at  once. 

Rice  Fondue 

1  c.  boiled  rice  }/2  t.  salt 

2  tb.  milk  1  t.  *'A  1'*  sauce 
4  eggs  1  c.  grated  cheese 

Heat  the  rice  in  the  milk,  add  the  other  ingredients;  cook 
slowly  until  the  cheese  is  melted.    Serve  on  crackers  or  toast. 

The  food  value  is  not  far  from  that  of  a  pound  of  beef  of 
average  composition. 

100 


Rice 

Rice  Bread 

One  cup  rice  flour,  ^  cup  milk,  1  egg,  2  teaspoonfuls  cooked 
hominy.  The  white  of  1  egg  beaten  separately  and  added  last. 
Bake  about  ^  hour. 

Rice  Corn  Bread 

2  c.  boiled  rice  2  c.  corn  meal 

1  tb.  crisco  2  c.  sour  milk 

2  eggs,  well  beaten 

Mash  the  rice  smooth;  add  the  crisco  to  it;  stir  in  at  the 
last  a  teaspoon  of  soda. 

Rice  Cake 

4  eggs  1  c.  cold  water 

1  c.  boiled  rice  1  t.  baking  powder 

2  c.  sweet  milk  A  little  salt 

Flour  sufficient  to  make  a  batter 

Pour  into  a  hot  pan,  and  bake  immediately. 

Rice  Waffles 

Beat  together  2  eggs,  a  scant  teaspoon  of  salt.  In  another 
pan  mash  smoothly  a  cup  of  boiled  rice,  stir  to  this  until 
melted  a  teaspoon  of  butter;  add  alternately  sweet  milk  and 
flour  to  make  a  batter  rather  stiflF;  mix  all  together  well.  Bake 
in  waffle  irons  and  serve  hot. 

Rice  Loaf 

Line  a  brick  mold  with  warm  steamed  rice,  having  walls 
from  ^  to  1  inch  thick.  Fill  the  center  with  cold  boiled 
salmon,  flaked  and  moistened  with  egg  sauce.  Cover  with 
rice,  set  in  a  pan  of  hot  water,  cover  with  buttered  paper  and 
bake  an  hour.  Turn  on  a  hot  platter,  pour  around  egg  sauce, 
and  garnish  with  slices  of  hard-boiled  eggs  and  parsley. 

In  order  to  prepare  cold  rice  for  croquettes  and  salads, 
spread  well  steamed  rice  on  a  large  plate  or  platter. 

Curried  Rice 

1  c.  rice  4  c.  water 

1  c.  tomatoes  1  large  onion,  sliced 

1  small  green  pepper,  sliced  2  tb.  crisco 

1}4  t.  salt  1}4  t.  curry  powder 

Wash  the  rice  thoroughly  through  several  cold  waters. 
Pour  the  water  over  the  rice  hot,  and  stand  where  it  will  keep 

101 


Rice 

hot,  but  not  cook,  for  30  minutes.  When  the  grains  are 
swollen  to  half  again  their  size,  add  the  other  ingredients. 
Bake  in  moderate  oven.    Serve  in  baking  dish. 

Rice  and  Red  Beans 

Soak  for  5  or  6  hours  (over  night  is  better)  a  pound  of  beans 
and  simmer  them  for  at  least  4  hours  in  2  quarts  of  water  until 
beans  are  soft.  Add  a  teaspoonful  salt,  a  teaspoonful  of  butter, 
a  small,  finely  chopped  onion,  1  teaspoonful  chili  powder  and 
let  simmer  for  2  hours  longer.  When  about  done  add  1  cupful 
of  well  cooked  rice.  A  pound  of  salt  meat  can  be  substituted 
for  the  above  seasoning,  excepting  the  onion  and  chili  powder, 
which  add  greatly  to  the  taste  of  the  dish. 

Hominy  Scrapple 

1  can  hominy  1  heaping  t.  crisco 

1  c.  tomatoes  1  t.  salt 

1  onion  1  dash  cayenne  pepper 

Grind  hominy  through  food  chopper,  using  coarsest  knife. 
Cut  onions  in  small  pieces  and  fry  in  crisco  till  tender,  then 
add  tomatoes,  salt,  and  pepper,  cooking  IS  or  20  minutes. 
Next  add  the  hominy  and  allow  to  cook  a  short  time,  when 
it  is  ready  to  serve. 

Rice  in  Shamrock  Cases 

Put  a  cup  of  milk  and  a  slice  of  onion  in  a  double  boiler  and 
let  it  come  to  the  boiling  point.  Add  1  cup  of  well  washed 
rice  and  let  it  cook  until  the  rice  is  tender.  Rub  together  an 
ounce  of  crisco,  an  ounce  of  grated  cheese,  a  dash  of  mustard, 
1  teaspoonful  salt  and  pepper  to  taste.  Stir  this  into  the  rice 
and  heat  thoroughly.  Serve  in  shamrock  shaped  pastry  shells, 
covering  the  mixture  with  coarsely  chopped  olives  and  sur- 
rounded with  buttered  green  peas. 

Banana  Puree  with  Rice 

Skin  6  ripe  bananas,  and  rub  them  through  sieve,  with  }^ 
cup  of  milk.  Add  a  tablespoonful  of  sherry,  and  put  this 
puree  into  the  center  of  a  glass  dish,  then  sprinkle  with  a  little 
granulated  sugar.  Boil  4  ounces  of  rice  in  milk.  When  done, 
drain  and  color  with  a  few  drops  of  red  color.  Arrange  the 
rice  round  the  edge  of  the  dish,  cover  all  with  whipped  cream, 
sweeten,  sprinkle  with  a  little  ground  cinnamon  and  serve. 

102 


Rice 

Grits  Bread 

1  large  teacup  grits  boiled  and  1  c.  sweet  milk 

cooled,  add:  4  eggs,  beaten  separately 

j4  c.  corn  meal  1  t.  crisco 

Salt  to  taste 

Bake  in  fireproof  dish.     Serve  in  same. 

Rice  Bread 

Put  on  a  pint  of  milk  and  let  come  to  boil,  stir  in  2  table- 
spoonfuls  corn  meal  that  has  been  wet  in  cold  milk.  Let  cook 
thoroughly,  take  from  fire,  add  1  tablespoonful  butter.  Let 
cool,  add  1  pint  cold  rice,  2  well  beaten  eggs.     Bake  quickly, 

serve   in   same   dish.        „  ,     j  t». 

Baked  Rice 

One  cup  rice  brown  or  white,  2^  teaspoons  salt.  Wash  the 
rice.  Drain  and  put  in  a  buttered  baking  dish.  Add  boiling 
water  and  salt,  cover  closely,  and  bake  in  a  quick  oven  for 
about  ^  hour  or  until  tender.  Uncover  in  the  last  few  min- 
utes so  as  to  allow  the  rice  to  dry  oflF.  Old  rice  absorbs  more 
water  than  new  rice.  Brown  rice  requires  about  }4  cupful 
more  water  and  ^  to  ^  hour  longer  cooking  than  white  rice. 

Spanish  Rice 

One  cup  white  or  brown  rice,  4  large  tomatoes,  or  ^2  can 
tomatoes,  4  teaspoonfuls  crisco,  1  tablespoonful  sugar,  2  tea- 
spoonfuls  salt,  y2  teaspoonful  paprika,  ^  teaspoonful  white 
pepper  or  a  little  cayenne,  2  green  peppers,  1  medium-sized 
onion,  sliced;  bit  of  bay  leaf,  ground  thyme. 

Heat  the  butter  and  in  it  delicately  brown  the  peppers  and 
the  onions.  Remove  and  brown  the  rice,  which  has  been 
looked  over  but  not  washed.  Add  all  other  ingredients.  Cover 
and  let  simmer  on  the  back  of  the  stove  until  soft  (^  to  1  hour). 
Add  boiling  water  as  the  rice  swells.  Brown  rice  will  require 
a  little  longer  cooking.  The  green  pepper  may  be  omitted. 
One  cup  of  ham  (boiled)  cut  in  slivers,  or  cold  chicken  instead, 
may  be  added  and  all  be  made  hot  together. 

Rice  Mold  with  Fruit  Compote 

1  c.  rice  2  tb.  sugar 

}4  c.  milk  Lemon  or  vanilla  flavoring 

1  egg  Fruit,  stewed 

Wash  the  rice  clean,  and  boil  in  sufficient  water  until  done. 
Drain  the  water  oflF  well.  Add,  while  hot,  a  custard  made  of 
egg,  milk  and  sugar.  Flavor  with  lemon  or  vanilla.  Cook 
until  set.  Form  into  molds  and  serve  with  stewed  prunes, 
peaches  or  any  other  kind  of  fruit. 

103 


CHAPTER  XIII 

DEEP  FAT  FRYING 

The  most  objectionable  thing  in  most  frying  is  the  fact 
that  the  intense  heat  required  for  frying  develops  in  animal 
fats,  such  as  lard  or  butter,  fatty  acids  which  greatly  irritate 
the  digestive  organs.  It  is  for  this  reason  that  many  families 
avoid  using  fried  meats. 

The  art  of  frying  is  commonly  misunderstood,  and  the 
products  of  the  skillet  are  usually  indigestible,  ordinarily 
greasy,  sometimes  unsightly  and  generally  unpalatable. 
When  the  fats  are  overheated,  which  is  often  the  case  with 
lard  or  butter  (which  burn  at  a  low  temperature),  the  foods 
themselves  are  rendered  indigestible  and  sometimes  posi- 
tively injurious.  To  avoid  this  overheating,  the  cook  fre- 
quently has  the  lard  or  butter  too  cool  and  the  food  cooked 
is  rendered  greasy  and  underdone. 

An  article  well  fried  should  come  out  as  free  from  grease 
as  though  it  had  been  cooked  in  water.  This  result  can  be 
obtained  by  immersion  in  hot  crisco.  Crisco  may  be  heated 
to  a  temperature  much  hotter  than  lard  without  burning, 
and  is  therefore,  on  this  account,  as  well  as  for  other  reasons, 
far  more  desirable  than  any  animal  fat. 

The  principle  of  deep  fat  frying  lies  in  the  fact  that  the 
articles  to  be  cooked,  when  dropped  into  the  very  hot  fat, 
form  a  crust  on  the  outside  of  the  food,  which  prevents  the 
fat  itself  from  penetrating  the  interior  of  the  food.  Cooked 
in  this  manner,  chops,  cutlets,  fish,  oysters,  poultry,  potatoes, 
croquettes,  etc.,  will  be  found  to  be  perfectly  digestible, 
delicious  in  flavor  and  most  appetizing  in  appearance.  It 
is  a  maxim  of  cooks  of  the  highest  class  that  croquettes  which 
will  soil  the  fingers  are  unfit  for  food.  When  fried  by  immer- 
sion in  deep  fat,  each  article  should  come  out  dry  and  crisp. 

Another  characteristic  of  crisco  is  worthy  of  special  men- 
tion in  this  connection.  The  fat  itself  is  impervious  to  odors 
or  flavors.  Every  one  knows  that  lard,  even  boiling  lard, 
takes  up  both  odors  and  flavors,  and  when  used  for  fish  can 
not  be  used  for  anything  but  fish.  The  same  pot  of  fat  should 
be  used  over  and  over  again  for  frying  different  foods  and  not 
one  of  them  taste  of  the  other. 

104 


Deep  Fat  Frying 

Owing  to  this  neutral  quality  of  crisco,  the  same  fat  may 
be  used  over  and  over  again  until  it  is  exhausted.  This 
means  a  great  saving  in  the  quantity  required. 

All  warmed-over  foods,  such  as  croquettes,  should  be 
dipped  in  egg  and  rolled  in  bread  crumbs  before  frying. 
The  egg,  which  is  very  rich  in  albumen,  coagulates,  forming 
a  thin,  grease-proof  covering  over  the  outside  as  soon  as  put 
into  the  fat. 

In  this  manner  these  articles  can  be  cooked  without  taking 
up  any  of  the  fat. 

Directions  for  Frying 

Use  a  deep  frying  pan  or  kettle.  A  wire  frying  basket 
to  hold  the  articles  to  be  fried,  hung  on  a  crook  attached  to 
kettle,  is  convenient,  but  they  may  be  lowered  into  the  fat 
and  taken  from  it  with  a  spoon-shaped  wire  egg-beater. 

Put  fat  into  frying  kettle  (cold)  and  bring  slowly  to  the 
right  degree  of  heat.  Test  it,  and  if  of  right  temperature 
dip  the  basket  or  wire  spoon  into  the  fat  to  heat  and  grease 
it.  If  the  basket  is  used,  lay  the  articles  in  it  and  lower 
them  until  the  fat  covers  them.  When  they  are  a  delicate 
brown,  shake  a  little  and  let  the  food  drain  for  a  moment 
before  removing  it  to  the  paper.  Reheat  the  fat,  testing  if 
necessary,  and  fry  another  batch  of  articles.  When  all  the 
grease  has  been  absorbed  by  the  paper,  arrange  the  food  on 
a  platter  and  garnish  it. 

TESTS 

For  deep  frying,  heat  fat  until  a  crumb  of  bread  becomes  a  golden 
brown  in 

60  seconds  for  raw  dough  mixtures,  as  crullers,  fritters,  etc. 
40  seconds  for  cooked  mixtures,  as  croquettes,  codfish  balls,  etc. 
20  seconds  for  French  fried  potatoes. 

Seconds  may  be  counted  thus:    one  hundred  and  one,  one  hundred 
and  two,  etc. 

Apple  Fritters 

\}i  c.  sifted  flour  ^  c.  milk  (about,  or  sufficient 

1  tb.  sugar  to  make  drop  batter) 

2  t.  baking  powder  1  tb.  melted  crisco 

yi  t.  salt  2  apples  cut  in  >^-inch  slices 

1  egg  (well  beaten) 

Sift  dry  ingredients  into  bowl,  add  milk  and  egg  and  stir 
liquid  into  the  dry  material,  beating  thoroughly,  adding  melted 
crisco  last.  Cover  slices  of  apples  with  batter,  dip  out  by 
tablespoonfuls  and  drop  in  deep  crisco  heated  so  that  a  crumb 

8  105 


Deep  Fat  Frying 

of  bread  will  brown  in  60  seconds.  Cook  3  or  4  minutes. 
Drain  and  sprinkle  with  powdered  sugar,  or  serve  with  lemon 
sauce. 

Doughnuts  Made  with  Potatoes 

3  tb.  crisco  2^  c.  flour 
1  c.  sugar,  creamed  3  t.  baking  powder 

3  eggs  1  t.  salt 

1  c.  mashed  potatoes  (warm)  1  t.  mace 

j4  c.  sweet  milk  1  t.  nutmeg 

Cream  crisco  and  sugar  together,  add  well  beaten  eggs, 
then  potatoes.  Sift  together  the  dry  ingredients  and  add  to 
the  crisco  mixture  alternately  with  the  milk.  Add  enough 
flour  to  roll.  Cut  all  doughnuts  before  beginning  to  fry. 
Have  crisco  heated  until  a  cube  of  bread  becomes  golden 
brown  in  60  seconds. 

Doughnuts 

3  c.  flour  y2  t.  soda 

1  c.  sugar  1  tb.  crisco 

2  eggs  (whole)  Little  salt 

1  c.  sour  milk  Pinch  of  mace 

Roll  thin  and  cut.     Fry  in  deep  fat. 

New  England  Doughnuts 

1  tb.  thick,  sour  cream  1  egg  beaten  in 

^  c.  thick,  sour  milk  1  rounding  c.  sugar 

1  t.  of  soda  ^  t.  vanilla 

^2,  t.  salt  Pinch  of  ginger 

Knead  and  roll  to  a  thickness  of  "jA  inch.  Fry  in  hot 
crisco,  turning  many  times  and  rolling  in  sugar  if  preferred. 

Crullers 

3  t.  crisco  3  t.  baking  powder 
^  c.  sugar                                              ^  t.  salt 

3  eggs  1  t.  cinnamon 

6  tb.  milk  1  t.  nutmeg 

4  c.  flour 

Cream  crisco,  add  sugar  gradually  and  continue  creaming. 
Beat  eggs  thoroughly  with  Dover  egg-beater,  and  combine 
with  milk.  Mix  and  sift  dry  ingredients  and  add  alternately 
with  liquid  to  creamed  crisco  and  sugar.  Roll  on  lightly 
floured  board  to  ^  inch  thickness,  cut  and  fry  in  deep  crisco. 

Note; — ^After  draining,  roll  in  powdered  sugar  if  desired. 

106 


Deep  Fat  Frying 


Doughnuts 


1  c.  sugar  1)4  t.  salt 

5  tb.  crisco  1  c.  milk 

3  eggs  1  t.  grated  nutmeg 

4  t.  baking  powder  Flour  to  make  soft  dough 

From  4^  to  5  cups  flour  sifted  before  measuring.  Cream 
crisco,  add  sugar  gradually,  and  eggs  well  beaten.  Sift  dry- 
ingredients  and  add  alternately  to  egg  mixture.  Roll  out  as 
soft  as  can  be  handled.  Cut  with  cutter  and  fry  in  hot 
crisco.  Heat  crisco  until  a  crumb  of  bread  becomes  a  golden 
brown  in  60  seconds.     Sufficient  for  60  doughnuts. 


Nut  and  Potato  Croquettes 

Cook  yi  cup  soft,  stale  bread  crumbs  with  "j/i  cup  cream 
until  of  the  consistency  of  a  thick  paste;  cool  and  add  ^  egg 
yolk  and  ^  cup  pecan  nut  meats,  broken  in  small  pieces. 
To  2  cups  hot  riced  potatoes,  add  3  tablespoonfuls  cream, 
}4  teaspoon  salt,  yi  teaspoon  pepper,  a  few  grains  cayenne, 
a  few  drops  onion  juice  and  the  yolk  of  1  egg,  beaten.  Shape 
in  small  nests;  fill  with  nut  mixture.  Cover  with  potato 
mixture,  shape,  dip  in  crumbs,  egg  and  crumbs,  fry  in  deep 
crisco  and  drain  on  paper.  Arrange  on  a  hot  plate  and  gar- 
nish with  parsley. 

Potato  Croquettes 

Two  cups  cold  mashed  potatoes,  free  from  lumps,  2  eggs 
well  beaten,  1  tablespoon  of  melted  butter,  salt  and  pepper 
to  taste;  form  into  cakes,  roll  in  beaten  egg  and  cracker 
crumbs,  and  fry  in  deep  crisco. 

Parsnip  Balls 

Boil  in  salted  water  until  tender.  Mash  and  season  with 
butter,  pepper  and  salt.  Add  a  little  flour  and  2  well  beaten 
eggs.     Form  into  small  balls  and  fry  in  hot  crisco. 

Cheese  Fritters 

Slice  thin  half  a  dozen  large,  tart  apples,  and  prepare  half 
as  many  slices  of  cheese.  Beat  up  1  or  2  eggs,  according  to 
the  quantity  required,  and   season  with  salt,  mustard  and  a 

107 


Deep  Fat  Frying 

little  pepper.  Lay  the  slices  of  cheese  to  soak  a  few  minutes 
in  the  mixture,  then  put  each  slice  between  two  slices  of  apple, 
sandwich  style,  and  dip  the  whole  in  the  beaten  egg.  Fry 
in  crisco  and  serve  hot. 

Golden- Ball  Fritters 

Put  into  a  stew-pan  a  pint  of  water,  a  piece  of  butter  as 
large  as  an  egg  and  a  tablespoonful  of  sugar.  When  it  boils 
stir  into  it  1  pint  of  sifted  flour,  stirring  briskly  and  thorough- 
ly. Remove  from  the  fire,  and  when  nearly  cooled  beat  into 
it  6  eggs,  each  one  beaten  separately  and  added  one  at  a  time, 
beating  the  batter  between  each.  Drop  the  stiff  dough 
into  deep  crisco  by  teaspoonfuls.  Eat  with  syrup,  or  melted 
sugar  and  butter  flavored  with  vanilla. 


Rice  Croquettes 

2  c.  boiled  rice  }/2  t.  salt 

1  egg,  beaten  White  or  cayenne  pepper  to 

Few  drops  of  onion  juice  taste 

1  tb.  lemon  juice  2  tb.  minced  parsley 

2  tb.  melted  butter 

Mix  all  ingredients  together,  and  shape  the  mixture  first 
into  balls  and  then  into  cylinders.  Roll  them  in  sifted  bread 
crumbs  and  then  in  slightly  beaten  egg  until  every  part  is 
covered;  roll  in  crumbs  a  second  time.  Fry  in  crisco  until 
golden  brown.     Serve  plain  or  with  tomato  or  cheese  sauce. 


Pineapple  Fritters 

Pare  and  core  a  pineapple  and  slice  it  into  large,  even, 
round  slices.  Sprinkle  each  piece  with  pulverized  sugar, 
then  prepare  your  batter.  Break  4  or  5  eggs  into  a  deep 
dish,  yolks  and  whites  separate,  add  a  pinch  of  salt  to  each 
dish  of  eggs,  and  1  tablespoon  of  sugar  to  the  yolks.  Add 
1  cupful  of  sweet  milk  and  enough  sifted  flour  to  the  beaten 
yolks  to  make  a  thin  batter,  about  1  tablespoonful  of  flour 
to  each  egg;  beat  very  smooth,  add  1  teaspoonful  of  baking 
powder,  and  last  add  the  stiff"-beaten  whites  of  the  eggs. 
Before  you  begin  to  fry  the  fritters,  see  that  the  crisco  is 
proper  temperature.  Dip  each  piece  of  pineapple  in  the 
batter  and  fry. 

108 


Deep  Fat  Frying 

Cheese  Aigrettes 

X  c-  water  1  c.  flour 

2  tb.  crisco  2  small  eggs 

4  tb.  grated  cheese  J/2  t.  salt 

Pinch  of  pepper 

Add  crisco  to  boiling  water.  Stir  in  flour  and  beat  well 
until  mixture  is  smooth  and  leaves  pan  clean.  Cool  and  add 
cheese  and  egg,  salt  and  pepper.  Beat  well.  Drop  mixture 
by  teaspoonfuls  into  hot  crisco.  Crisco  should  not  be  too 
hot,  or  cheese  will  burn.  Test:  cube  of  bread  should  brown 
in  70  seconds.  Fry  until  a  golden  brown,  cool,  drain  and 
sprinkle  with  grated  cheese.     Serve  hot. 

Corn  Fritters 

1  c.  flour  1  tb.  sugar 

1  c.  sweet  milk  }4  t.  salt 

1  t.  baking  powder  1  can  crushed  corn 

2  eggs 

Sift  baking  powder,  sugar  and  flour.  Put  corn  in  bowl 
and  add  salt,  pepper  and  crisco,  add  well  beaten  yolks,  then 
flour  and  milk.  Cut  in  stiffly  beaten  whites.  Drop  by 
spoonfuls  on  a  criscoed  griddle.  Fry  brown  on  both  sides. 
These  fritters  are  a  palatable  accompaniment  to  roast  chicken. 
Fresh  corn  may  be  used. 

Strawberry  Fritters 

Beat  the  yolks  and  whites  of  2  eggs,  separately,  to  a  stiff* 
froth  and  then  add  to  the  yolks  1  saltspoonful  of  salt,  1  table- 
spoonful  of  sugar  and  2  tablespoonfuls  of  melted  crisco  (very 
gradually);  blend  thoroughly  and  when  well  mixed  gradually 
stir  in  a  little  at  a  time,  1  cupful  of  sifted  flour,  1  teaspoonful 
of  baking  powder,  ^  cupful  of  cold  water  and  a  cupful  of 
strawberries  that  have  been  cut  in  quarters  and  allowed  to 
drain  for  10  minutes.  The  batter  should  be  very  thick  and 
should  be  allowed  to  stand  in  the  ice-box  for  an  hour  before 
using,  folding  in  the  whipped  egg  whites  just  previous  to 
cooking.  Fry  by  the  spoonful  in  deep,  hot  crisco  and  roll 
in  powdered  sugar,  serving  with  a  hard  sauce. 

Hominy  Croquettes  with  Tomato  Sauce 

2  c.  hominy  2  t.  salt 

2  eggs  Dash  of  paprika 

yi  t.  pepper  J^  t.  grated  nutmeg 

Soak  the  hominy  in  cold  water  24  hours;  then  boil  4  hours 
slowly.     Put  through  meat  chopper  while  warm;  then  add 

109 


Deep  Fat  Frying 

the  salt,  pepper,  paprika,  nutmeg  and  egg,  which  is  well 
mixed,  but  not  light.  Take  into  floured  hands  and  form 
into  cone  shapes;  then  dip  in  egg  (1  egg  beaten  with  1  table- 
spoon cold  milk);  then  in  bread  crumbs;  fry  in  deep,  hot 
crisco  or  bake  in  oven.     Serve  with  sauce. 

Put  1  cup  strained  tomatoes  into  saucepan,  add  1  table- 
spoon grated  onion,  salt  and  pepper  to  taste,  1  teaspoon  corn- 
starch wet  with  a  little  cold  water;  boil  3  minutes.  Serve 
around  the  croquettes. 

Rice  Croquettes 

}4  cupful  rice,  washed  and  steamed.     When  cold  add 

1  tb.  melted  crisco  Salt  to  taste 

%  c.  grated  cheese  1  egg  beaten  very  light 

Form  into  croquettes,  roll  in  flour,  and  submerge  in  deep 
crisco  heated  until  a  crumb  of  bread  will  turn  a  golden  brown 
in  40  seconds. 

Sweetbread  Croquettes 

^  c.  thick  white  sauce  1  lb.  sweetbreads 

Prepare  sweetbreads  as  for  fried  sweetbread.  When 
cooked,  chop  up  finely  and  mix  with  white  sauce.  Shape 
into  croquettes.  Dip  into  beaten  egg,  roll  in  bread  or  cracker 
crumbs,  and  fry  in  crisco  till  of  a  golden  brown  color. 

Pasta  de  Gallina — Chicken  Pasties 

Use  1  cup  mushrooms  to  4  cups  of  cold  minced  chicken; 
add  ly2  cups  of  white  sauce;  the  well  beaten  yolks  of  2  eggs; 
1  teaspoon  of  onion  juice;  1  teaspoon  of  minced  parsley,  salt 
and  chili  powder  to  taste.  Shape  into  little  cakes,  crumb 
and  egg  them  and  fry  in  deep,  hot  crisco. 

Oyster  Fritters 

One  cup  flour,  "j/^  teaspoon  salt,  ^  cup  milk  or  water,  4 
eggs,  1  tablespoon  olive  oil.  Mix  salt  and  flour.  Add  milk 
gradually,  beaten  yolks,  then  oil,  and  lastly  stiflRy  beaten 
whites.     Fry  as  directed  for  fruit  fritters. 

Sweetbread  Timbales 

1  pair  sweetbreads  2  eggs 

1  c.  white  sauce  No.  3  Seasoning 

}i  c.  crumbs 

Wash  the  sweetbreads  and  remove  the  tough  connective 

110 


i 


Deep  Fat  Frying 

tissue.  Put  into  cold  water  for  1  hour,  drain,  and  simmer 
for  20  minutes  in  salted  water  to  which  a  teaspoon  of  vinegar 
or  lemon  juice  has  been  added.  Cut  into  small  pieces  and 
mix  with  the  sauce,  seasoning  and  crumbs.  Add  the  well 
beaten  eggs,  turn  into  molds  and  cook  as  above. 

Hominy  Crescents 

Soak  }/2  cup  hominy  in  }4  cup  water  15  minutes;  put  on 
to  cook  in  double  boiler  with  1^  cups  of  milk;  when  done, 
add  ^2  teaspoon  of  salt,  ^  teaspoon  paprika,  a  grating  of 
nutmeg  and  2  egg  yolks,  spread  in  a  shallow  pan  ^  inch  deep 
to  cool;  when  cold,  cut  in  crescents,  crumb,  egg  and  crumb 
and  fry  in  deep  fat. 

Cheese  Croquettes 

3  tb.  butter  1  c.  cheese  cut  in  small  pieces 

^  c.  flour  }4  c.  grated  cheese 

^  c.  milk  Salt  and  pepper 

Yolks  of  2  eggs 

Make  with  a  white  sauce,  using  the  butter,  flour,  and  the 
milk.  Add  the  unbeaten  yolks  and  stir  until  well  mixed, 
then  add  the  grated  cheese.  As  soon  as  the  cheese  melts, 
remove  from  the  fire,  fold  in  the  pieces  of  cheese,  and  add  the 
seasoning.  Spread  in  a  shallow  pan  and  cool.  Cut  into 
squares  or  strips,  cover  with  an  egg  and  crumb  mixture,  and 
fry  in  deep  crisco. 

Cheese  Balls 

}4  c.  dry  bread  crumbs  }i  t.  salt 

1  c.  grated  cheese  X  t.  mustard 

1  egg  A  few  grains  cayenne  pepper 

Mix  dry  ingredients,  add  egg,  shape  in  small  balls,  and  fry 
in  deep  crisco. 

Nut  Balls 

l4  lb.  cold  sweetbreads  or  other  meat 
1  doz.  chopped  blanched  almonds 

Add  1  egg  and  form  into  balls.  Roll  in  raw  egg  and  bread 
crumbs  and  fry  in  deep  crisco,  hot  enough  to  brown  a  crumb 
of  bread  in  40  seconds. 

Ill 


Deep  Fat  Frying 

Meat  Croquettes 

2  c.  cold  meat  1  t.  salt 

1  t.  chopped  parsley  yi  t.  pepper 

Dust  of  nutmeg  1  egg  beaten 

^  c.  brown  sauce  Bread  crumbs 

Mince  meat  fine.  Make  the  sauce  hot  (not  boiling),  add 
meat,  parsley,  nutmeg,  salt  and  pepper,  and  mix  well.  Turn 
onto  plate,  divide  into  12  equal  portions  and  leave  to  cool. 
When  cool  enough  take  each  portion  and  shape  into  balls, 
pyramids  or  oblongs,  brush  with  beaten  egg,  coat  with  bread 
crumbs  and  fry  in  crisco  hot  enough  to  brown  a  cube  of  bread 
in  30  seconds.  Drain  thoroughly.  One  cup  mashed  potatoes 
may  be  added  to  the  mixture,  if  liked. 

Codfish  Balls 

1  c.  mashed  potatoes  1  tb.  crisco,  melted 

14  c.  shredded  codfish  yi  tb.  pepper 

1  egg 

Mix  the  hot,  unseasoned  potatoes  with  codfish.  To  this 
add  the  melted  crisco,  beaten  egg  and  pepper.  Beat  well. 
Shape  and  roll  in  bread  crumbs,  dip  in  egg,  and  fry  in  crisco 
until  a  golden  brown  color. 

Rice  Croquettes 

1  c.  well  washed  rice  4  c.  milk 

2  tb.  chopped  parsley  2  tb.  butter 

3  eggs  Red  currant  jelly 
Cayenne  Salt 

Place  rice,  milk,  butter,  salt  and  cayenne  pepper  in  upper 
part  of  double  boiler,  let  cook  till  rice  is  soft  and  milk  is 
absorbed.  Remove  from  fire,  add  the  beaten  eggs  and  pars- 
ley; cool  and  mold  into  desired  shapes.  One  tablespoon  of 
mixture  makes  a  nice  size  croquette  for  cylinders  or  round 
cakes  with  a  hole  in  center  filled  with  jelly.  Egg  and  bread 
crumb,  and  fry  in  deep  crisco  until  a  delicate  brown.  Drain 
on  soft  paper. 

Chicken  Croquettes 

Boil  1  good  size  chicken  until  tender.  When  cold  grind 
the  meat  in  food  chopper;  add: 

2  c.  bread  crumbs  2  tb.  finely  minced  celery 

yi  c.  melted  crisco  Salt  to  taste 

1  t.  finely  minced  onion  Dash  of  paprika 

Add  3  eggs  and  enough  of  the  chicken  broth  to  form  into 

112 


\ 


Deep  Fat  Frying 

croquettes.  Have  deep  crisco  hot  enough  to  brown  a  crumb 
of  bread  in  40  seconds.  Roll  croquettes  in  flour,  dip  in  egg, 
cover  with  bread  crumbs,  and  fry  in  basket.  Have  crisco 
deep  enough  to  cover  croquettes,  so  they  brown  evenly. 
(Makes  25  good-sized  croquettes.) 

Lentil  Croquettes 

(Substitute  for  Meat) 

Soak  the  lentils  for  12  hours  and  set  on  stove  in  boiling 
water.  Cook  for  several  hours  (older  they  are,  longer  time 
required)  and  rub  through  sieve,  salt,  pepper  and  onion  juice 
to  taste,  added  to  them,  the  mixture  thinned  with  cream. 
Form  the  mixture  into  croquettes,  dip  in  egg,  roll  in  cracker 
crumbs  and  fry  in  crisco.     Garnish  with  tomato  sauce. 

Deviled  Chicken  Fritters 

Beat  2  eggs  thoroughly  and  blend  with  ^  cup  each  of 
deviled  chicken  and  ham  (or  tongue)  to  which  has  been  added 
a  cupful  of  boiled  rice  or  freshly  mashed  potatoes  (if  neither 
is  available  a  pint  of  bread  crumbs  may  be  scalded  in  sufficient 
hot  milk  to  moisten,  and  then  mixed  with  meat).  Add  1  cup 
of  flour  sifted  with  a  teaspoon  of  baking  powder  and  a  little 
cream  until  soft  enough  to  drop  by  spoonfuls.  Fry  in  deep 
crisco. 

Lima  Bean  Croquettes 

Boil  lima  beans  until  tender,  drain  and  mash  them.  To 
2  cupfuls  of  mashed  beans  add  2  eggs,  well  beaten  together; 
salt  and  white  pepper  to  taste  and  enough  cream  to  soften. 
Allow  to  cool,  then  shape.  Dip  croquettes  in  egg,  then  in 
bread  crumbs  and  fry  in  crisco  heated  until  a  cube  of  bread 
will  turn  golden  brown  in  40  counts.  Drain  and  serve  with 
tomato  sauce. 

Bean  Croquettes 

1  c.  white  beans,  boiled  and  1  beaten  egg 

rubbed  through  sieve  Salt 

1  tb.  butter  Pepper 

Dash  of  paprika 

Stir  mixture  and  turn  on  floured  board  and  form  into 
croquettes,  dip  in  egg,  roll  in  cracker  crumbs  and  fry  in  deep 
crisco. 

113 


Deep  Fat  Frying 

Sweet  Potato  Croquettes 

2  c.  mashed  sweet  potatoes  1  t.  salt 

2  egg  yolks  Pinch  of  pepper 

1  tb.  crisco  ^  c.  raisins  or  chopped  nuts 

Melt  crisco  in  saucepan,  and  add  the  potatoes.  When 
hot  add  1  beaten  egg  yolk,  nuts  or  raisins,  and  salt.  Make 
into  balls,  roll  in  egg  yolk,  then  in  bread  crumbs,  and  fry  in 
deep  crisco  hot  enough  to  brown  a  cube  of  bread  in  40  seconds. 

Macaroni  Croquettes 

Break  one-third  of  a  package  of  macaroni  and  place  in 
boiling  salted  water  and  cook  for  30  minutes;  then  drain  and 
chop  finely.  While  doing  this,  bring  to  a  boil  }4  pint  of 
milk,  adding  to  it  2  tablespoonfuls  of  flour,  and  stir  until  a 
thick  paste  is  formed.  To  this  paste  add  ^4  pound  grated 
cheese  and  2  tablespoonfuls  of  chili  powder  and  the  yolks 
of  3  eggs,  mixing  thoroughly;  cook  for  a  moment,  then  season 
to  taste,  add  the  macaroni  and  let  cool;  when  cold  form 
into  croquettes,  roll  in  cracker  crumbs  and  fry  in  deep,  hot 
crisco. 

Rice  Croquettes 

1  pt.  cold  rice  1  egg 

1  t.  butter  Pinch  of  salt 

}i  c.  milk 

Shape  and  roll  in  cracker  crumbs  and  egg  and  fry  in  hot 
crisco. 

Sweet  Rice  Croquettes 

Cook  ^2  cup  rice  in  1  cup  sweet  milk  until  rice  has  ab- 
sorbed milk,  add  2  tablespoonfuls  sugar,  1  tablespoon  butter 
and  pinch  of  salt,  and  let  rice  stand  in  double  boiler  until 
ready  to  use,  at  which  time  beat  in  2  eggs,  shape,  dip  in  egg, 
roll  in  crumbs  and  fry  in  deep  crisco.     Serve  with  sauce. 

Potato  Croquettes 

Add  a  little  butter,  yolk  of  an  egg,  dash  of  cayenne  pep- 
per and  a  little  minced  parsley.  Make  into  small  balls  and  fry 
in  hot  crisco. 

114 


CHAPTER  XIV 


BREAD 

Back  of  the  loaf  is  the  snowy  flour 

And  back  of  the  flour  is  the  mill, 

And  back  of  the  mill  is  the  wheat  and  shower 

And  the  sun  and  the  Father's  will. 

— Good  Housekeeping. 

Bread  has  been  called  the  staff  of  life  and  from  this  indi- 
cation of  its  importance  it  would  seem  unnecessary  to  call 
attention  to  the  great  wrong  done  by  poor  bread.  It  would 
seem  as  though  we  could  have  no  poor  bread.  Many  fam- 
ilies are  underfed,  because  they  consume  large  quantities  of 
bakeshop  products,  or  products  made  of  inferior  flour,  and 
do  not  take  sufficient  protein  food.  Whole  wheat  bread 
spread  with  butter  is  a  perfect  food  and  next  in  point  of 
nutrition  comes  rye  bread,  which  is  always  combined  with 
white  flour,  as  rye  used  alone  will  be  found  heavy  and  gluey 
and  hard  to  digest.  Graham  flour  is  nutritious  and  excel- 
lent for  those  of  sedentary  habits,  or  those  who,  for  any 
reason,  suffer  from  constipation. 

In  selecting  flour  for  bread,  spring  wheat  will  be  best 
when  yeast  is  used  and  winter  wheat  may  be  used  for  biscuit. 
We  use  several  methods  in  making  bread,  such  as  leavening 
it  with  soda  and  sour  milk  or  baking  powder,  which  pro- 
duces carbon  dioxide,  and  this  is  unfermented  bread.  Many 
consider  soda  and  sour  milk  the  most  wholesome  hot  bread. 
Those  who  object  to  high  priced  baking  powder  may  make 
excellent  baking  powder  by  using  the  following  proportions: 
1  teaspoon  of  soda,  2  teaspoonfuls  of  cream  of  tartar  sifted 
together;  to  each  12  tablespoonfuls  of  this  mixture  add  4 
tablespoonfuls  of  cornstarch. 

Baking  powder  mixtures  are  made  light  by  the  liberation 
of  gas  in  dough  and  as  soon  as  moisture  is  added  gas  will  be- 
gin to  escape  and  for  that  reason  all  baking  powder  mixtures 
should  go  into  hot  oven  immediately.  Soda  is  combined 
with  cream  tartar,  yi  teaspoon  soda  to  1  cup  sour  milk  and 
1  part  soda  to  2  parts  cream  tartar.  Acids  found  in  molasses, 
brown  sugar  and  lemons  act  in  the  same  way  as  sour  milk. 

US 


Bread 

Another  form  of  unfermented  bread  is  aerated  bread, 
where  by  some  process,  air  is  enclosed,  as  beating  in  popovers, 
or  pounding  air  into  beaten  biscuit.  Yeast  is  the  lowest 
form  of  vegetable  life:  it  consists  of  spores,  or  germs  which 
grow  by  budding,  requiring  moisture  and  heat  and  ferment 
for  propagation  or  fermentation. 

Dry,  liquid  or  compressed  yeast  may  be  used.  Fleisch- 
mann's  compressed  yeast  is  prepared  under  most  hygienic 
conditions  in  a  sanitary  factory  and  is  universally  used. 

Points  well  to  remember  about  yeast  are  as  follows: 
Yeast  germ  is  killed  by  using  water  at  212°  F.  and  retarded, 
if  not  totally  killed,  at  32°  F. 

A  fresh  cake  of  yeast  is  necessary  for  well  flavored  bread. 
A  fresh  cake  will  be  light  colored,  crumbly  and  give  slightly 
sour  odor.  When  yeast  is  soft  and  very  sour  it  should  not 
be  used. 

More  bread  would  be  made  and  consequently  less  money 
spent  for  other  articles  of  diet,  if  a  short  process  of  making 
was  employed.  Use  a  method  whereby  the  bread  may  be 
raised  and  baked  within  six  hours.  For  that  purpose  we 
would  add  sugar  to  our  sponge,  as  that  hastens  the  fermenta- 
tion, and  set  out  of  draughts  at  a  temperature  of  68  degrees 
or  70  degrees. 

The  ferment  in  the  yeast  converts  the  starch  into  sugar 
and  that  in  turn  into  alcohol  and  carbon  dioxide  and  thereby 
lightens  the  mass  by  filling  it  with  bubbles.  By  the  time  this 
has  been  accomplished  we  add  more  flour,  salt  and  shorten- 
ing and  knead  well  to  break  the  bubbles  and  distribute  the 
air  cells. 

To  knead  push  dough  with  the  palm  of  the  hand  and  fold 
forward  with  fingers.  Use  as  little  flour  on  board  as  possible, 
as  soft  dough  makes  more  tender  bread.  The  more  carefully 
it  is  kneaded,  the  finer  the  grain  and  this  means  until  it  is 
smooth  and  elastic. 

When  bread  is  allowed  to  rise  over  night,  less  yeast  is  used: 
y^  cake  to  a  pint  of  liquid  will  be  sufficient.  If  the  dough 
has  a  yeasty,  sour  taste,  dissolve  }4.  teaspoon  soda  in  3  table- 
spoonfuls  warm  water,  add  2  tablespoonfuls  sugar  and  work 
into  dough. 

Bread  should  be  baked  in  a  pretty  hot  oven.  Loaf  should 
not  continue  to  rise  in  the  oven  after  10  minutes  and  for  that 

116 


Bread 

reason  care  is  taken  not  to  allow  crust  to  form  too  soon  be- 
fore heat  has  reached  center  of  loaf  and  killed  the  fermenta- 
tion. Bread  that  continues  to  rise  too  long  in  oven  will  be 
coarse  grained.  After  bread  completes  rising  in  oven  reduce 
heat.  It  will  require  from  50  to  60  minutes  for  loaf  weighing 
a  pound.  To  determine  that  bread  is  baked  thoroughly, 
you  will  find  it  is  easily  removed  from  pan  as  it  shrinks  and 
should  give  off  hollow  sounds  on  being  tapped  with  finger. 

Rolls  require  more  heat  than  loaves,  and  should  be  baked 
in  from  12  to  20  minutes  according  to  size.  If  very  crusty 
bread  is  desired,  brush  over  with  milk  or  white  of  an  egg. 
If  tender  crust  is  desired  brush  with  cream  or  butter  before 
removing  from  oven.  As  much  depends  on  manner  of  cool- 
ing bread  as  making  and  baking.  Loaves  should  be  im- 
mediately removed  from  pans  to  cool  on  wire  trivet,  or  if 
one  is  not  convenient,  use  rack  out  of  refrigerator  and  elevate 
it  above  the  table  by  placing  at  four  corners  cups  or  glasses. 
A  free  circulation  of  air  is  necessary  to  prevent  bread  from 
sweating  and  cooling  unevenly.  A  stone  jar,  or  a  tin  cake 
or  bread  box  with  few  perforations  in  end  of  the  box  is  the 
best  receptacle  for  keeping  bread  fresh  and  moist. 

Popovers 

1  c.  flour  J4,  c.  milk 

}4  t.  salt  2  eggs 

2  t.  melted  crisco 

Mix  salt  and  flour;  add  milk  gradually  in  order  to  obtain 
a  smoother  batter,  add  eggs  beaten  until  light;  add  melted 
crisco.  Beat  5  minutes  —  using  a  Dover  egg  beater — turn 
into  hissing  hot  iron  gem  pans,  greased  with  crisco,  and  bake 
30  to  35  minutes  in  a  hot  oven. 


Drop  Dumplings 

2  c.  flour  2  t.  baking  powder 

}4  t.  salt  1  scant  c.  milk 

1  tb.  crisco 

Mix  the  flour,  salt  and  baking  powder;  stir  in  the  milk 
and  drop  the  batter  by  spoonfuls  into  the  boiling  stew.  Cover 
and  cook  for  10  minutes.  If  preferred,  they  may  be  dropped 
on  a  buttered  plate  and  cooked  in  a  steamer  over  boiling 
water.     In  either  case  they  should  be  served  immediately. 

117 


Bread 

Rolled  Dumplings 

J4  c.  crisco  }4  t.  salt 

1  c.  flour  X  c.  cold  water 

Cut  crisco  into  the  flour  and  salt;  then  with  a  knife  stir 
in  the  water,  ice-cold.  When  thoroughly  mixed  roll  the 
dough  into  tiny  dumplings  about  the  size  of  a  marble;  drop 
them  into  the  soup;  simmer  for  15  minutes  and  serve. 

Batter  Roll 

One  cup  flour,  add  sweet  milk  until  it  forms  thin  batter. 
Add  little  salt  and  yolks  of  4  eggs  and  beat  with  Dover  egg- 
beater  until  full  of  bubbles.  Lastly  fold  in  well  beaten 
whites  and  pour  in  well  greased  frying  pan.  Cover  bottom, 
and  when  browned,  turn  quickly.  When  done  turn  out  on 
hot  plate  and  spread  in  it  jelly  or  marmalade  and  roll  like 
jelly  roll.     Serve  immediately. 

Flannel  Cakes 

3  c.  flour  1  t.  baking  powder 

2  c.  sour  cream  j4  t.  salt 

4  eggs 

Sift  dry  ingredients  into  mixing  bowl;  add  sour  cream, 
add  yolks  and  whites  separately,  well  beaten.  Beat  the 
whole  mixture  well  and  bake  on  soapstone  griddle.  Beat 
well  each  time  before  baking. 

Pumpkin  Corn  Bread 

2  c.  corn  meal  1  t.  sugar 

1  tb.  shortening  }4  t.  salt 

^2  t.  soda 

Enough  buttermilk  to  make  a  stiff  batter.  Make  into 
small  pones  and  bake  in  a  hot  oven.  Can't  be  beaten  served 
with  fresh  pork. 

Bran  Muffins  (Laxative) 

2  c.  wheat  bran  1  t.  salt 

2  c.  wheat  flour  1  t.  soda  (scant) 

ly^  c.  milk  6  tb.  molasses 

Bake  half  hour.     Especially  good  for  invalids. 
Graham  Muffins 

J4  c.  sugar  1  c.  milk 

2  c.  graham  flour  1  tb.  butter 

2  t.  baking  powder 

Bake  in  muffin  pans  20  to  30  minutes  in  hot  oven. 

118     , 


Bread 


Wheat  Muffins 


1  pt.  flour  1  t.  melted  crisco 

\}4  c.  milk  }4  t.  salt 

1  egg  3  t.  baking  powder 

1  tb.  sugar 

This  makes  one  dozen.     Bake  in  hot,  greased  gem  pans. 
Cornmeal  Sticks 

2  c.  meal  1  t.  salt 

\y2  c.  buttermilk  1  tb.  shortening 

2  eggs  1  tb. soda 

Lastly,  add  1  tablespoonful  soda  dissolved  in  a  little 
warm  water.  Beat  2  eggs  in  last.  Bake  in  muffin  rings  or 
sticks. 

Dixie  Cornmeal  Muffins 

1  cake  Fleischmann's  yeast  2^^  c.  cream  meal 

2  c.  milk,  scalded  and  cooled  1  c.  sifted  flour 

2  tb.  light  brown  sugar  2  eggs  (well  beaten) 

1  tb.  crisco  1  t.  salt 

Dissolve  yeast  and  sugar  in  lukewarm  milk.  Add  crisco, 
cornmeal,  flour,  eggs  and  salt.  Beat  well,  fill  well  oiled 
muffin  pan  ^  full.  Set  to  rise  in  warm  place,  free  from  draft, 
until  light,  about  1^  hours.  Bake  in  hot  oven  20  minutes. 
For  over  night  use  ^  cake  yeast,  and  an  extra  ^  teaspoon 
salt.     Cover  and  keep  in  cool  place. 

Cornmeal  Muffins 

2  c.  meal  }4  t.  salt 
2  eggs  1  c.  meal 

1  t.  soda  2  tb.  crisco  melted 

Add  milk  gradually,  then  balance  of  meal,  etc.,  then  the 
eggs.     Bake  in  hot  rings  well  greased. 

Date  Muffins 


}4  c.  sifted  pastry  flour 

2  tb.  sugar 

2  t.  baking  powder 

1  egg 

%  t.  salt 

}4  lb.  chopped  dates 

1  tb.  crisco 

1  c.  milk 

Sift  flour,  then  measure,  add  baking  powder,  salt  and 
sugar;  sift  three  times  and  set  aside,  cream  crisco  and  sugar, 
add  egg,  then  chop  dates,  then  milk  and  flour  alternately 
and  beat  well. 

119 


Bread 


Rice  Muffins 


2}i  c.  flour  }4  t.  salt 

1  c.  boiled  rice  1  c.  milk 

2  t.  baking  powder  1  egg,  well  beaten 

%  c.  melted  crisco 

Sift  together  thoroughly  the  flour,  baking  powder  and 
salt.  Add  the  rice,  working  it  with  the  tips  of  the  fingers, 
and  gradually  the  milk,  egg  and  crisco.     Bake  in  gem  pans. 

Corn  Griddle  Cakes 

}4  c.  cornmeal  1  c.  flour 

^  c.  boiling  water  2  t.  baking  powder 

Milk  (about  ^    c.)  1  egg 

}4  t.  salt  2  tb.  molasses 

Add  meal  to  boiling  water  and  boil  5  minutes;  when  luke- 
warm stir  in  the  milk;  add  dry  ingredients,  sifted,  the  beaten 
egg  and  molasses.  Bake  on  a  hot  griddle  and  serve  with 
butter  and  maple  sugar. 

Crumb  Cakes 

^  c.  bread  crumbs  1  egg 

1  c.  milk  ^2  t.  salt 

}4  tb.  crisco  ^  c.  flour 

2  t.  baking  powder 

Cook  the  crumbs,  milk  and  crisco  for  15  minutes;  rub 
through  a  sieve;  cool  and  add  the  yolk  of  the  egg  and  the  dry 
ingredients  sifted.  Fold  in  the  white  and  bake  on  a  hot 
griddle. 

Whole  Wheat  Cakes 

1  c.  entire  wheat  flour  2  tb.  sugar 

1  c.  flour  1  egg 

Xyi  t.  baking  powder  2  c.  milk 

}^  t.  salt  1  tb.  melted  crisco 

Sift  together  the  flour,  baking  powder,  salt  and  sugar. 
Beat  egg;  add  milk,  and  pour  slowly  upon  first  mixture. 
Beat  thoroughly  and  add  crisco.  Bake  on  well  greased 
griddles. 

Graham  Bread 

1  c.  sweet  milk  4  tb.  sugar 

1  c.  wheat  flour  2  tb.  melted  crisco 

1  c.  graham  flour  2  eggs 

2  t.  Royal  baking  powder  1  t.  salt 

Beat  eggs  light;  add  to  them  the  milk.  Sift  the  white 
flour,  baking  powder,  salt,  and  sugar  together.  Stir  in  the 
milk  and  eggs,  then  add  crisco  and  the  graham  flour.  Bake 
in  hot  oven. 

120 


Bread 
Squash  Biscuit 

j4  c.  cold  winter  squash  }i  c.  corn  meal 

>^  c.  milk  }4  c.  flour 

1  egg  .         ^  *•  s^^^ 

1  t.  baking  powder 

Beat  the  squash  with  the  milk  and  egg;  add  the  other 
ingredients;  mix  all  together  into  a  smooth  batter  and  bake 
in  small  cakes  on  a  hot  griddle. 

Reception  Biscuits 

2  c.  flour  2  t.  baking  powder 

1  c.  sugar  1  t.  powdered  cinnamon 
^2  c.  butter  1  c.  milk 

1  c.  cleaned  currants 

Sift  the  baking  powder  with  the  flour,  add  the  sugar, 
then  rub  in  the  butter,  and  add  the  currants  and  cinnamon. 
Mix  with  the  milk  and  knead  lightly  on  a  floured  baking- 
board.  Bake  in  a  square  buttered  cake-tin  for  about  half 
an  hour.  Cut  in  squares,  then  split  them  open  and  butter 
them.     Serve  warm  with  some  sort  of  jam  or  marmalade. 

Rice  Bread 

^4  c.  cold  rice  X  t.  salt 

}4  c.  white  meal  1  egg 

14  c.  flour  }i  tb.  melted  butter 

^2  t.  baking  powder  ^  c.  milk 

Mix  the  dry  ingredients  thoroughly;  add  the  egg  beaten 
with  the  milk  and  melted  butter.  Pour  into  shallow  greased 
tins  and  bake  in  a  moderate  oven. 

Beaten  Biscuit 

2  c.  flour  3  tb.  crisco 
1  t.  salt                                                  }i  c.  milk 

1  t.  sugar  }4  c.  water 

Sift  together  the  dry  ingredients.  Cut  the  crisco  in  with  a 
knife  or  work  in  lightly  with  the  tips  of  the  fingers.  Mix 
sugar,  milk  and  water  together;  chill  thoroughly  and  add  grad- 
ually to  the  dry  ingredients.  Everything  should  be  as  cold 
as  possible.  Mix  into  a  smooth,  elastic  dough,  and  put  on 
a  floured  board.  Beat  into  a  thin  sheet  with  triangular 
biscuit  beater.  Sprinkle  over  with  pastry  flour.  Roll  up 
like  jelly  roll  and  continue  the  beating  in  the  same  way  until 
the  dough  is  smooth  and  velvety  and  blisters  when  rolled 
out.  Roll  to  yi  inch  in  thickness  and  cut  into  small  biscuits, 
prick  in  center   and   set  in   refrigerator  for   an   hour  before 

9  121 


Bread 

baking.  These  should  be  baked  in  a  moderate  oven  and  the 
gas  turned  ofF  when  the  biscuits  are  golden  brown.  Allow 
the  biscuits  to  remain  10  minutes  in  the  cooling  oven  to  dry 
out.     These  biscuits  are  similar  to  a  cracker. 

Pin  Wheel  Biscuits 

2  c.  flour  3  tb,  crisco 

4  t.  baking  powder  }i  c.  milk 

}/2  t.  salt  y^  c.  raisins  cut  fine  or  currants 

2  tb.  sugar  2  tb.  citron 

Mix  dry  ingredients  and  sift.     Work  in  crisco  with  tips  of 

fingers,  add  gradually  the  liquid,  mixing  with  a  knife  to  a 

soft    dough.     Roll    to    yi    inch    thickness,    brush    over    with 

melted  crisco  and  sprinkle  with  fruit,  2  tablespoonfuls  sugar 

and  cinnamon.     Roll  like  a  jelly  roll;  cut  off  pieces  ^  inch 

thick.     Place  in  greased  pan   and   bake  in   hot  oven  for  15 

minutes. 

Whole  Wheat  Biscuits 

3  c.  whole  wheat  flour  4  t.  baking  powder 

1  t.  salt  3  tb.  crisco 

1  c.  rich  milk 

Sift  dry  ingredients;  with  tips  of  fingers  blend  crisco. 
Make  into  soft  dough  with  milk  and  roll  ^3  inch  thick.  Cut 
in  small  biscuits  and  bake  in  hot  oven. 

Sour  Milk  Biscuits 

2  c.  flour  3  tb.  crisco  (rubbed  in  dry  in- 
1  t.  salt  gredients  lightly) 

}/2  t.  soda  ^  c.  sour  milk 

Sift  the  dry  ingredients.  Knead  lightly  until  smooth 
and  roll  to  }4  inch  in  thickness.     Bake  in  a  hot  oven. 

Sweet  Milk  Pancakes 

3^2  c.  flour  2  tb.  melted  butter 

3  t.  baking  powder  %  c.  sugar 

1  t.  salt  2  c.  sweet  milk 

1  egg 

Sift  dry  ingredients,  beat  egg  and  add  milk  slowly.  Beat 
thoroughly,  add  melted  butter  and  beat  well  and  bake. 

Sour  Milk  Griddle  Cakes 

2}4  c.  flour  }4  t.  salt 

2  c.  sour  milk  }4  t.  soda 

2  eggs 

Mix  and  sift  flour,  salt  and  soda,  and  add  the  sour  milk 
and  well  beaten  eggs,  bake  on  hot  griddle. 

122 


Bread 


Boston  Brown  Bread 


1}4  c.  cream  cornmeal  ^  c.  molasses  (sorghum  is  best) 

1^  c.  graham  flour  1)4  c.  buttermilk  or  sour  milk 

1  t.  salt  1  tb.  melted  crisco 

1}4  t.  soda 

Sift  together  dry  ingredients.  Add  molasses,  buttermilk 
(or  sour  milk)  and  crisco.  Put  in  1-pound  molds,  well  cris- 
coed  (a  baking  powder  can  makes  an  excellent  mold),  and 
steam  in  fireless  cooker  or  in  double  boiler  on  gas  stove  for 
3  hours.  Remove  from  can  while  still  hot  and  place  on  wire 
trivet  to  cool. 


Baking  Powder  Biscuits 

2  c.  flour  1  t.  salt 

4  t.  baking  powder  2  tb.  crisco 

^  c.  milk 

Mix  and  sift  twice  the  dry  ingredients.  Work  in  crisco 
with  tips  of  fingers;  add  gradually  the  liquid,  mixing  with  a 
knife  to  soft  dough.  Toss  on  a  floured  board,  pat  and  roll 
to  }4  inch  in  thickness.  Shape  with  a  biscuit  cutter.  Place 
on  a  tin  greased  with  crisco  and  bake  in  a  hot  oven  12  or  15 
minutes. 

Dixie  Biscuits 

2  c.  flour  1  t.  sugar 

4  t.  baking  powder  1  egg 

1  t.  salt  ^  c.  milk 

3  tb.  crisco 

Sift  together  the  dry  ingredients.  Rub  in  the  crisco 
lightly;  beat  egg  and  add  with  the  milk.  Roll  out  ^  inch 
in  thickness  and  cut  with  biscuit  cutter.  Brush  over  with 
crisco  and  bake  in  hot  oven. 


Corn  Flake  Griddle  Cakes 

1  c.  flour  2  t.  sugar 

1  c.  corn  flakes  2  t.  crisco 

2  t.  baking  powder  1  egg 

1  c.  milk  }4  t.  salt 

Prepare  and  bake  the  same  as  plain  griddle  cakes.  Use 
any  kind  of  package  corn  flakes,  but  dry  them  out  if  they 
have  absorbed  moisture. 

123 


Bread 

Corn  Bread 

Sift  together  2  cups  of  meal,  ^  teaspoon  soda  and  add 
1  tablespoon  crisco.  Mix  with  buttermilk  to  make  soft 
dough.  Make  into  small  pones  or  dodgers,  put  on  a  hot 
criscoed  baker  or  griddle,  and  bake  in  a  hot  oven. 

Dixie  Corn  Pone 

2  c.  cream  meal  1  t.  salt 

yi  t.  soda 

Scald  half  meal,  add  buttermilk  to  make  stiff  batter, 
form  into  pones  and  bake  on  greased  griddle.  Fine  with 
fried  chicken  or  boiled  dinner. 

Green  Corn  Batter  Cakes 

Grate  1  cup  sweet  green  corn  and  add  to  batter  made  as 
follows : 

2  c.  flour  sifted  with  1  t.  baking         1  tb.  butter 

powder  and  1  t.  salt  1  egg 

1  c.  sweet  milk 

Beat  in  egg -last. 

Buckwheat  Cakes 

3  c.  buckwheat  1  t.  salt 

^2  c.  cornmeal 

Add  buttermilk  to  make  thick  batter.  Set  to  rise  over 
night  in  warm  place.  Next  morning  beat  in  sufficient  butter- 
milk to  make  thin  batter.  Add  1  teaspoon  soda  and  1  table- 
spoon brown  sugar.     Bake  after  rising  15  minutes. 

Old  Time  Buckwheat  Cakes 

}4  cake  Fleischmann's  yeast  3  c.  buckwheat  flour 

1  c.  lukewarm  water  1  c.  meal 

Use  milk  sufficient  for  stiff  batter.  Dissolve  yeast  in 
warm  water  and  add  sufficient  milk  to  dry  ingredients.  Set 
to  rise  overnight.  In  the  morning  beat  the  batter,  adding 
1  teaspoon  soda  and  1  tablespoon  molasses.  Bake  on  hot 
griddle  and  serve  with  maple  syrup.  Use  what  is  left  for 
yeast  next  night. 

Waffles 

1^2  c.  flour  }4  t.  salt 

1  c.  milk  1  t.  melted  butter 

1  egg  1  t.  sugar 

1  t.  baking  powder 

Sift  the  flour,  salt,  sugar  and  baking  powder  into  a  bowl, 
add  the  milk  and  mix  well;  then  add  the  butter  and  the  well 

124 


Bread 

beaten  egg.  Mix  all  well  together  and  bake  in  very  hot 
waffle  iron.  In  making  waffles  be  careful  not  to  put  too  much 
batter  into  the  waffle  iron. 

Waffles 

2  eggs,  beaten  separately  1  t.  soda 

1  t.  salt  1  t.  baking  powder 

2  c.  buttermilk  4  c.  flour 

2  tb.  cornmeal  2  tb.  shortening,  added  last 

Sift  dry  ingredients,  beat  well  and  bake  on  well  greased 
irons,  turn  on  hot  platter  and  brush  over  with  melted  butter. 

Crisp  Waffles 

2  eggs  1  t.  sugar 

2  c.  sweet  milk  2  t.  baking  powder 

2  tb.  cornmeal  2  tb.  melted  butter 

}^  t.  salt 

Flour  enough  to  make  thin  drop  batter.  Mix  sugar  and 
butter;  add  eggs  and  beat  thoroughly.  Sift  meal,  baking 
powder,  salt  and  2  cups  flour  together  into  butter  and  sugar, 
add  milk  as  needed.  It  will  require  more  flour  than  2  cups. 
Bake  on  hot,  greased  iron  and  serve  with  maple  syrup. 

Oatmeal  Griddle  Cakes 

One  cup  oatmeal  cooked  and  put  through  a  strainer,  stir 
gradually  into  3  cups  milk  and  water;  mix  half  and  half;  add 
2  cups  of  flour  in  which  have  been  sifted  2  tablespoonfuls 
baking  powder,  1  egg,  level  teaspoon  salt.  Beat  well  and 
bake  on  griddle. 

Flour  Muffins 

2  c.  flour  l}4  c.  buttermilk 
^  t.  soda  2  eggs 

1  t.  salt  2  tb.  crisco 

Beat  the  eggs,  add  the  salt  and  milk.  Stir  in  the  flour 
and  melted  crisco.  When  ready  to  cook,  stir  in  the  soda 
mixed  in  a  tablespoon  of  water.  Bake  in  a  hissing  hot  cris- 
coed  pan  in  a  hot  oven. 

Whole  Wheat  Gems 

3  eggs  (beat  yolks  and  add  1  1  tb.  melted  crisco 

cup  milk)  ^  t.  salt 

Add  whites  beaten  and  ^  cup  whole  wheat  flour  and  1 
teaspoon  baking  powder,  1  cup  raisins  or  dates.  Bake  in  well 
greased  hot  gem  pans. 

■   125 


Bread 


Sally  Lunn 


Two  eggs,  ^  cup  crisco,  3  tablespoonfuls  sugar,  creamed 
together.  Add  1  cup  sweet  milk,  2^  cups  flour  and  2  tea- 
spoonfuls  baking  powder,  and  1  teaspoon  salt.  Bake  in 
muffin  tins. 

Sweet  Potato  Biscuits 

1  c.  sweet  potato  1  tb.  sugar 

2  eggs  1  t.  salt 
}^  cake  Fleischmann's  yeast  Flour 

Boil  a  sweet  potato  and  mash  while  hot.  Beat  in  2  eggs 
and  flour  enough  for  a  dough.  Add  yi  cake  Fleischmann's 
yeast  and  let  rise  over  night.  In  the  morning  work  in  1 
tablespoon  crisco  and  enough  flour  to  mold  in  small  biscuit; 
let  rise  to  double  their  size  and  bake  in  quick  oven. 

Salt-Rising  Bread  (Aunt  Martha) 

\}4  pts.  milk  Meal 

5  tb.  sugar  Flour 

1  tb.  soda  5  tb.  crisco 

\}4  t.  salt 

Scald  2  cups  milk  and  stir  in  meal  to  make  thick  mush; 
add  }4  teaspoon  soda,  1  teaspoon  salt,  3  teaspoonfuls  sugar. 
Sprinkle  a  little  dry  meal  on  top.  Place  in  warm  place 
over  night.  Next  morning  add  2  cups  of  milk  and  water, 
the  milk  scalded  and  allowed  to  cool  to  tepid;  have  water 
tepid.  Beat  the  liquid  into  the  batter  and  add  sufficient 
flour  to  make  heavy  drop  batter;  allow  to  rise  2  hours, 
after  which  time  add  balance  sugar  and  salt,  soda,  melted 
crisco.  Add  enough  flour  to  make  into  smooth,  elastic  dough. 
Knead  well,  make  into  loaves  and  allow  to  double  in  bulk 
before  baking. 

Salt-Rising  Bread  (Emily) 

Scald  2  cups  milk;  add  2  cups  boiling  water  and  beat  into 
it  enough  flour  to  make  thin  batter;  add  2  tablespoonfuls 
meal,  1^  teaspoons  salt,  2  tablespoonfuls  sugar.  Beat  until 
filled  with  bubbles,  set  in  warm  place  to  rise.  Next  morning 
pour  off  any  water  that  rises  to  top,  and  beat  down.  Add 
enough  flour  with  2  tablespoonfuls  meal,  2  teaspoonfuls 
salt,  3  tablespoonfuls  sugar,  2  teaspoonfuls  soda,  and  5  table- 
spoonfuls melted  crisco  or  butter  to  make  smooth  dough. 
Knead  well,  mold  into  loaves,  allow  to  rise  double  its  bulk 
and   bake  in  moderate  oven. 

126 


Bread 


Salt-Rising  Bread 


Scald  1  cup  of  sweet  milk  and  stir  into  it  enough  meal  to 
make  a  soft  mush  that  will  drop  from  the  spoon.  Leave  in 
a  warm  place  over  night;  early  the  next  morning  add  a 
cup  of  lukewarm  water,  a  saltspoon  of  salt  and  1  pint  of 
flour.  Set  it  in  warm  water.  When  it  is  light  and  frothy, 
take  3  pints  of  flour,  2  tablespoonfuls  of  crisco,  salt  to  season, 
add  tepid  water  enough  to  make  a  soft  dough.  Work  well, 
make  into  loaves,  put  into  your  pans  and  set  to  rise.  When 
well  risen,  about  twice  its  size,  put  in  the  oven  to  bake. 


Griddle  Cakes 

All  batter  cakes  are  better  baked  on  an  ungreased  griddle, 
as  they  rise  and  keep  their  shape,  and  do  not  follow  the  grease. 
Your  griddle  need  not  necessarily  be  of  soapstone.  If  you 
have  an  old  griddle  and  clean  it  thoroughly,  being  sure  to 
remove  all  burned  fat  or  batter,  it  can  be  used  in  this  way. 

Wheat  Griddle  Cakes 

1  cake  Fleischmann's  2  tb.  melted  crisco 

compressed  yeast  2  cups  sifted  flour 

1  cup  milk,  scalded  and  cooled     yi  t.  salt 
1  cup  lukewarm  water  2  eggs 

2  level  tb.  brown  sugar 

Dissolve  the  yeast  and  sugar  in  the  lukewarm  liquid. 
Add  crisco  (or  butter),  then  flour  gradually,  the  eggs  well 
beaten,  and  salt. 

Parker  House  Rolls 

1  pt.  scalded  milk  3^  cake  Fleischmann'syeast, mixed 

1  tb.  crisco  with  y^  c.  lukewarm  water 

1  tb.  sugar  Flour  to  make  a  dough 

\}4  t.  salt 

Follow  directions  for  yeast  bread.  To  shape — roll  out 
the  dough  to  ^  inch  in  thickness,  cut  with  a  floured  biscuit 
cutter,  crease  each  roll  through  the  center  with  the  floured 
handle  of  a  knife,  brush  one-half  of  each  with  melted  butter, 
fold  and  press  together.  Place  close  together  in  a  greased 
pan,  having  all  the  rolls  turned  the  same  way.  Let  stand  in 
a  warm  place  until  double  in  bulk,  brush  with  milk  and  bake 
in  a  hot  oven  15  to  20  minutes. 

127 


Bread 


Whole  Wheat  Bread 


1  cake  Flelschmann's  com-  Ij^  c.  milk,  scalded  and  cooled 

pressed  yeast  3  tb.  melted  crisco 

3  level  tb.  brown  sugar  7}4  c.  whole  wheat  flour 
lj/4  c.  lukewarm  water  1  t.  salt 

Dissolve  the  yeast  and  sugar  in  lukewarm  liquid;  add  crisco 
or  butter;  then  flour,  gradually,  as  whole  wheat  flour  absorbs 
moisture  slowly,  and  last  the  salt.  Knead  thoroughly,  being 
sure  to  keep  dough  soft;  place  in  well  greased  bowl,  cover  and 
set  aside  in  warm  place,  to  rise  for  about  2  hours.  When 
double  in  bulk,  turn  out  on  kneading  board.  Mold  into 
loaves;  place  in  well  greased  pans;  cover  and  set  to  rise 
again  for  about  1  hour,  or  until  light.  Bake  1  hour,  in  a 
slower  oven  than  for  white  bread. 


Scotch  Short  Bread 

1  c.  butter  2  c.  flour 

^2  c.  powdered  sugar 

Cream  the  butter;  add  the  flour  and  sugar;  knead  all 
together  thoroughly  with  the  hands;  roll  out  about  1  inch  in 
thickness  and  cut  in  oblong  cakes.  Bake  about  ]/2  hour, 
laying  the  bread  on  brown  paper  in  an  unbuttered  pan. 


Coarse  Loaf 

J^  c.  New  Orleans  molasses  )4  t.  baking  powder 
^  c.  brown  sugar  1  c.  nuts  or  raisins 

}4  c.  corn  meal  1  pt.  sour  milk 

2  c.  graham  flour  2  t.  soda 

1}4  c.  white  flour  Pinch  of  salt 

Mix  all  the  ingredients  together,  adding  the  sour  milk  last. 
Pour  into  a  greased  baking  pan  and  bake  in  a  slow  oven  about 
1  hour. 

Corn  Bread 

1}4  c.  corn  meal  1  heaping  t.  baking  powder 

}4  c.  flour  5^  tb.  butter 

}4  tb.  sugar  IX  c.  milk 

H  t.  salt  1  egg 

Sift  the  dry  ingredients  together;  add  milk,  beaten  egg 
and  butter.  Pour  into  a  shallow  buttered  tin  and  bake 
about  ^2  hour. 

128 


Bread 

BREAD 

1  pt.  milk  (scalded)  3  t.  salt 

1  pt.  boiling  water  1  cake  yeast  mixed  with  ^  c. 

2  tb.  sugar  lukewarm  water 

2  tb.  butter  or  crisco  Flour  to  make  a  dough 

Steps  in  the  Process  of  Bread  Making 

I.  Mixing. — 1.  Scald  milk  and  boil  water.  2.  Put 
salt,  sugar,  and  crisco  into  mixing  bowl  and  add  hot  liquids. 
3.  While  these  are  cooling  separate  yeast  in  lukewarm  water 
and  add  to  lukewarm  liquids.  4.  Add  flour  to  make  a  drop 
batter,  and  beat  well.     5.  Add  more  flour  to  make  dough. 

II.  First  Kneading. — (a)  Objects:  1.  To  work  air  in.  2. 
To  make  gluten  elastic.  3.  To  blend  ingredients,  (b) 
Time  about  20  minutes. 

III.  First  Rising. — (a)  Precautions  when  put  to  rise: 
1.  Grease  top  to  prevent  formation  of  crust.  2.  Shield  from 
draughts  of  air.  (b)  Time  dependent  upon  (1)  amount  of 
yeast  used;  (2)  temperature. 

Note. — Use  about  one  yeast  cake  to  every  quart  of  liquid 
when  bread  is  to  rise  over  night.  If  set  in  a  warm  place,  and 
double  the  amount  used,  bread  should  be  ready  to  knead 
in  a  few  hours.  Regardless  of  the  time  allow  bread  to  rise 
until  dough  is  double  in  bulk. 

IV.  Second  Kneading. — The  object  of  the  second  knead- 
ing is  to  break  up  gas  bubbles  so  that  bread  will  be  fine  grained. 

V.  Shaping. — Shape  into  loaves  or  rolls. 

VI.  Second  Rising. — Put  to  rise  in  the  pans.  Allow 
loaves  to  rise  about  45  minutes,  or  until  double  in  bulk. 

VII.  Baking. — Loaves  should  be  baked  from  45  to  60 
minutes,  rolls  10  to  20  minutes. 

Milk  and  Water  Bread 

1  c.  scalded  milk  1  c.  boiling  water 

.2  tb.  crisco  1  Fleischmann  yeast  cake  dis- 

2  t.  salt  solved  in  }i  c.  lukewarm 
6  c.  sifted  flour  water 

Prepare  and  bake  as  water  bread. 

This  bread  can  be  mixed,  raised  and  baked  In  5  hours. 
It  is  usually  mixed  in  the  morning  and  the  cook  is  able  to 
watch  the  dough  while  rising  and  keep  it  at  a  uniform  temp- 
erature. It  is  often  desirable  to  place  bowl  containing 
dough  in  pan  of  water,  keeping  the  water  at  a  temperature 
of  from  95  to  100  degrees  F. 

129 


Bread 

Rye  Bread 

1  c.  scalded  milk  2  t.  salt 

1  c.  boiling  water  %  yeast  cake  dissolved  in 

2  tb.  crisco  %  c.  lukewarm  water 
yi  c.  brown  sugar                                    1  c.  flour 

Rye  meal 

To  milk  and  water  add  crisco,  sugar  and  salt;  when  luke- 
warm add  dissolved  yeast  cake  and  1  cup  flour,  beat  thor- 
oughly, cover  and  let  rise  until  light.  Add  rye  meal  until 
dough  is  stiff  enough  to  knead;  knead  thoroughly,  shape  into 
loaves,  let  rise  again  and  bake. 

Rye  Bread 

One  pint  yeast-bread  .sponge,  1  large  cup  rye  flour,  the 
same  of  cornmeal  scalded  and  cooked.  One  tablespoon  crisco, 
one  of  molasses,  little  salt.  Knead  with  white  flour.  When 
light  bake  in  moderate  oven.     (Two  loaves.) 

Bread  Rusk 

1  pt.  bread  dough  1  tb.  crisco 

^  c.  sugar  Grated  nutmeg 

Spread  the  bread  dough  open;  work  the  other  Ingredients 
into  it;  roll  out;  cut  in  cubes;  put  them  in  greased  pans;  set 
in  a  warm  place  until  very  light.     Bake  in  a  quick  oven. 

Rusk 

1  cake  Fleischmann's  com-  ^4  c  butter  or  crisco 

pressed  yeast  1  c.  sugar 

2  c.  milk,  scalded  and  cooled  1  egg 

1  tb.  sugar  ^  t.  salt 

6  c.  sifted  flour  1  c.  currants 

Dissolve  the  yeast  and  1  tablespoon  of  sugar  in  the  luke- 
warm milk;  add  to  it  half  the  flour,  to  make  an  ordinary  sponge. 
Beat  well;  cover  and  set  aside  in  a  warm  place  to  rise,  for 
about  an  hour.  When  light,  add  to  it  the  crisco  and  sugar, 
creamed  egg  well  beaten,  the  currants,  which  have  previously 
been  washed,  and  the  remiainder  of  the  flour,  or  suflRcient 
to  make  a  soft  dough;  last  add  the  salt.  Knead  lightly; 
place  in  a  greased  bowl;  cover  and  set  aside  in  a  warm  place, 
free  from  draft,  to  rise  for  about  2  or  2^  hours.  When  well 
risen,  turn  out  on  a  kneading  board  and  mold  into  rolls. 
Place  in  well  greased  pans;  cover  and  let  rise  again  for  about 
1  hour,  or  until  double  in  bulk.  Brush  with  egg  diluted 
with  milk.  Bake  in  a  hot  oven  for  about  15  or  20  minutes. 
Upon  removing  from  oven  sprinkle  with  powdered  sugar. 

130 


Bread 

Graham  Bread 

1  cake  Fleischmann's  com-  ^  c.  sugar 

pressed  yeast  4  tb.  crisco 

1  c.  lukewarm  water  ^  c.  raisins 

1  c.  milk,  scalded  and  cooled  1  t.  salt 

6  c.  sifted  flour 

Dissolve  the  yeast  and  1  tablespoon  of  sugar  in  luke- 
warm liquid;  add  2  cups  of  flour,  the  crisco  and  sugar,  well 
creamed;  and  beat  until  smooth.  Cover  and  set  aside  to 
rise  in  a  warm  place,  free  from  draft,  until  light — about  X^i 
hours.  Add  raisins  well  floured,  the  rest  of  the  flour  to  make 
a  soft  dough,  and  last  the  salt.  Knead  lightly;  place  in  well 
greased  bowl;  cover  and  let  rise  again  until  double  in  bulk — 
about  \y2  hours.  Mold  into  loaves,  fill  well  greased  pans 
half  full;  cover  and  let  rise  until  light — about  1  hour.  Glaze 
with  egg  diluted  with  water,  and  bake  45  minutes. 

Cocoa  Bread 

1  cake  Fleischmann's  com-  ^  c.  sugar 

pressed  yeast  }4  c.  cocoa 

2  c.  milk,  scalded  and  cooled  X  c.  crisco 
1  tb.  sugar  2  eggs 

S}4  c.  sifted  flour  K  t.  salt 

Dissolve  the  yeast  and  1  tablespoon  of  sugar  in  luke- 
warm milk;  add  3  cups  of  flour  and  beat  until  smooth.  Cover 
and  set  aside  to  rise  in  warm  place  until  light — about  1^ 
hours;  then  add  crisco  and  ^  cup  sugar  creamed,  eggs  well 
beaten,  cocoa,  remainder  of  flour,  or  enough  to  make  soft 
dough,  and  salt.  Knead  lightly,  place  in  greased  bowl,  cover 
and  set  aside  in  warm  place,  free  from  draft,  until  double  in 
bulk — about  2  hours.  Mold  into  loaves,  place  in  well  greased 
bread  pans,  filling  them  half  full.  Cover  and  let  rise  again 
until  light — about  1  hour.     Bake  40  to  45  minutes; 

Gluten  Bread 

1  cake  yeast  2  c.  lukewarm  water 

1  t.  sugar  1  tb.  crisco 

1  tb.  salt 

Dissolve  the  yeast  and  sugar  in  lukewarm  liquid;  add 
crisco,  then  gluten,  flour  gradually,  and  salt.  Knead  thoroughly 
until  smooth  and  elastic,  place  in  well  greased  bowl,  cover 
and  set  aside  in  a  warm  place,  free  from  draft,  to  rise  until 
light,  which  should  be  in  about  2  hours.  Mold  into  loaves, 
place  in  greased  pans,  filling  them  half  full.  Cover,  let  rise 
again,  and  when  double  in  bulk,  which  should  be  in  about 
1  hour,  bake  in  a  moderate  oven  45  minutes. 

131 


Bread 


Raised  Doughnuts 


1  c,  milk  /^[.c.  crisco 

y^  cake  Fleischmann's  yeast  1  c.  brown  sugar 

X  c.  lukewarm  water  2  eggs 

2  t.  salt  ^4  grated  nutmeg 

Flour 

Scald  and  cool  milk;  when  lukewarm,  add  yeast  cake  dis- 
solved in  water,  salt  and  flour,  enough  to  make  a  stiflf"  batter. 
Let  rise  over  night.  In  the  morning  add  melted  crisco, 
sugar,  well  beaten  eggs,  nutmeg  and  enough  flour  to  make 
a  stiff  dough;  let  rise  again.  Toss  on  floured  board,  roll 
to  y2  inch  thickness,  shape  with  cutter  and  place  on  floured 
board,  let  rise  1  hour.  Fry  in  deep  crisco  and  drain  on 
brown  paper.     Cool  and  roll  on  powdered  sugar. 


Date  Bread 

1  c.  warm  wheat  mush  X  cake  Fleischmann's  yeast 

y^  c.  brown  sugar  X  c.  warm  water 

1  t.  salt  Flour 

1  tb.  crisco  ^  c.  walnut  meats 

^  c.  dates 

Mix  first  four  ingredients,  add  yeast  cake  dissolved  in 
lukewarm  water,  and  flour  to  knead.  Cover  and  let  rise 
over  night.  In  the  morning  cut  down  and  while  kneading 
add  nuts  cut  in  small  pieces  and  dates  stoned  and  cut  in  pieces. 
Shape  in  a  loaf,  let  rise  in  pan  and  bake  for  50  minutes  in  a 
moderate  oven.     This  bread  is  well  adapted  for  sandwiches. 


Muffins  (English) 

1  c.  scalded  milk  1^  t.  salt 

1  c.  boiling  water  ^  cake  Fleischmann's  yeast 

2  tb.  crisco  1  egg 

^  c.  sugar  4  c.  flour 

Add  crisco,  sugar  and  salt  to  milk  and  water;  when  luke- 
warm, add  yeast  cake,  egg  well  beaten,  and  flour.  Beat 
thoroughly,  cover,  and  let  rise  until  light.  Put  greased 
muffin  rings  on  a  hot  griddle.  Fill  half  full  with  raised  muffin 
mixture  and  cook  slowly  until  well-risen  and  browned  under- 
neath. Turn  the  muffins  and  rings  and  brown  the  other  side. 
When  muffins  are  cold,  cut  through  the  center,  toast,  and  serve 
with  marmalade. 

132 


Bread 


Hot  Cross  Buns 


1  c.  scalded  milk  ^  t.  cinnamon 
}4  c.  sugar  3  c.  flour 

2  tb.  crisco  1  egg 

1  t.  salt  J4  c.  raisins 

j/2  cake  Fleischmann's  yeast  dissolved  in  J4  c.  lukewarm  water 

Add  crisco,  sugar,  and  salt  to  milk;  when  lukewarm,  add 
dissolved  yeast  cake,  cinnamon,  flour,  and  egg  well  beaten; 
when  thoroughly  mixed  add  raisins,  cover  and  let  rise  over 
night.  In  the  morning  shape  in  forms  of  large  biscuits, 
place  in  pan  greased  with  crisco,  1  inch  apart,  let  rise,  brush 
over  with  beaten  egg,  and  bake  20  minutes.  Cool,  and 
with  ornamental  frosting  make  cross  on  top  of  each  bun. 

Hot  Cross  Buns 

1  cake  Fleischmann's  yeast  J4  c.  crisco 

1  c.  milk,  scalded  and  cooled  }4  c.  raisins  or  currants 

1  tb.  sugar  3j^  c.  sifted  flour 
K  c.  sugar  1  egg 

X  t.  salt 

Dissolve  the  yeast  and  1  tablespoon  of  sugar  in  the  luke- 
warm milk.  Add  1^  cups  of  the  flour,  to  make  a  sponge. 
Beat  until  smooth;  cover  and  let  rise  until  light,  in  a  warm 
place,  free  from  draft — about  1  hour.  Add  crisco  and  ^  cup 
sugar  creamed,  egg  well  beaten,  raisins  or  currants,  which 
have  been  floured,  rest  of  flour,  or  enough  to  make  a  soft 
dough,  and  salt.  Turn  on  board,  knead  lightly,  place  in  greased 
bowl.  Cover  and  set  aside  in  a  warm  place,  until  double  in 
bulk,  which  should  be  in  about  2  hours.  Shape  with  hand 
into  medium-sized  round  buns;  place  in  well  greased  pans 
about  two  inches  apart.  Cover  and  let  rise  again — about 
1  hour,  or  until  light.  Glaze  with  egg  diluted  with  water; 
with  sharp  knife  cut  a  cross  on  top  of  each;  bake  20  minutes. 
Just  before  removing  from  oven,  brush  with  sugar  mois- 
tened with  water.     While  hot,  fill  cross  with  plain  frosting. 

Oven  Scones 

2  cakes  Fleischmann's  1  level  t.  salt 
compressed  yeast  1  c.  raisins 

2  c.  milk,  scalded  and  cooled  }4  c.  citron 

1  tb.  sugar  and  1  egg 

1  c.  sugar  6^2  c.  sifted  flour 

^  c.  crisco 

Dissolve  the  yeast  and  1  tablespoon  of  sugar  in  the  luke- 
warm milk;  add  3  cups  of  flour  and   beat  well.     Cover  and 

133 


Bread 

let  rise  in  a  warm  place,  free  from  draft,  until  light — about 
1  hour.  Then  add  crisco  and  1  cup  sugar  creamed,  the  egg 
well  beaten,  fruit  well  floured,  balance  of  flour  to  make  a  soft 
dough,  and  the  salt.  Turn  on  board;  knead  lightly;  form 
into  12  round  cakes,  cover  and  allow  them  to  rise  15  minutes. 
Then  roll  %  inch  thick;  cut  across  each  way  nearly  through, 
making  an  impression  of  four  cakes.  Place  in  well  greased 
pans;  let  rise  about  1  hour,  or  until  double  size.  Then  brush 
with  egg  diluted  with  water. 


Lunch  Rolls 

1  cake  Fleischmann's  com-  4c.  sifted  flour 

pressed  yeast  1  egg 

1%  c.  milk,  scalded  and  cooled  2  tb.  crisco 

1  tb.  sugar  1  t.  salt 

Dissolve  the  yeast  and  sugar  in  the  lukewarm  milk;  add 
crisco  and  2  cups  of  flour.  Beat  thoroughly,  then  add  the 
egg  well  beaten,  balance  of  flour  gradually,  and  salt.  When 
all  of  the  flour  is  added,  or  enough  to  make  a  moderately 
soft  dough,  turn  on  board  and  knead  lightly  and  thoroughly, 
using  as  little  flour  on  the  kneading  as  possible,  keeping 
dough  soft.  Place  in  well  greased  bowl.  Cover  and  set 
aside  in  a  warm  place,  free  from  draft,  to  rise  about  2 
hours.  When  light,  form  into  small  biscuits,  the  size  of  a 
walnut.  Place  1  inch  apart,  in  shallow  pans,  well  greased. 
Let  rise  until  double  in  bulk — about  ^  hour.  Brush  with 
egg  and  milk,  and  bake  10  minutes  in  hot  oven. 


Raised  Potato  Cakes 

Dissolve  1  cake  of  Fleischmann's  compressed  yeast  in  1 
cup  lukewarm  milk;  add  1  cup  of  finely  mashed  potatoes  and 
flour  enough  to  make  a  sponge  rather  thin;  set  in  warm  place, 
well  covered,  until  light.  Cream  2  cups  sugar  with  ^  cup 
crisco;  add  ^  cup  lukewarm  milk;  4  eggs  (1  at  a  time),  1  tea- 
spoonful  cinnamon,  1  teaspoonful  allspice,  1  teaspoonful 
cloves,  1  cup  chopped  English  walnuts,  1  cup  raisins,  2  cupfuls 
flour  and  3  tablespoonfuls  ground  chocolate;  mix  all  the  in- 
gredients well  and  put  in  buttered  pan  to  rise.  Set  in  warm 
place.  When  light,  bake  in  moderate  oven  slowly.  Re- 
quires long  baking. 

134 


Bread 
Royal  Muffins 

^  c.  scalded  milk  l^  c.  flour 

J4  c.  sugar  1  c.  corn  meal 

1  t.  salt  J4  c.  crisco 

j^  yeast  cake  dissolved  in  )4  c«  lukewarm  water 

Add  sugar  and  salt  to  milk;  when  lukewarm  add  dissolved 
yeast  cake,  lj4  cups  flour,  cover,  and  let  rise  until  light,  then 
add  cornmeal,  remaining  flour  and  crisco.  Let  rise  over  night, 
in  the  morning  fill  muffin  rings,  greased  with  crisco,  ^  full; 
let  rise  until  rings  are  full  and  bake  30  minutes  in  a  hot  oven. 

Rolled  Oats  Bread 

2  c.  boiling  water  ^  cake  Fleischmann's  yeast,  dis- 
}4  c.  molasses  solved  in  ^  c.  lukewarm  water 

1  tb.  salt  1  c.  rolled  oats 

1  tb.  crisco  4>^  c.  flour 

Add  boiling  water  to  oats  and  allow  to  stand  1  hour;  add 
molasses,  salt,  crisco,  dissolved  yeast  cake  and  flour;  let 
rise,  beat  thoroughly,  turn  into  bread  pans  greased  with 
crisco,  let  rise  again  and  bake. 

Apple  Cake 

1  c.  scalded  milk  Flour 

y^  c.  crisco  5  sour  apples 

^  c.  sugar  J4  c.  sugar 

1  t.  salt  }4  t.  cinnamon 

1  cake  Fleischmann's  yeast  2  tb.  currants 

J4  c.  lukewarm  water  2  eggs 

Mix  first  four  ingredients.  When  lukewarm  add  yeast 
cake  which  has  been  dissolved  in  the  lukewarm  water,  eggs 
and  flour  to  make  a  soft  dough,  cover,  let  rise,  beat  thorough- 
ly and  again  let  rise.  Spread  in  a  dripping  pan  greased  with 
crisco,  and  brush  over  with  melted  crisco.  Pare,  cut  into 
eighths,   and   remove  cores   from   apples. 

Press  sharp  edges  of  apples  in  the  dough  in  parallel  rows, 
lengthwise  of  pans.  Sprinkle  with  sugar,  cinnamon  and  cur- 
rants, cover,  let  rise  and  bake  in  a  moderate  oven  30  minutes. 

Sweet  French  Buns 

1  cake  Fleischmann's  com-  3  level  tb.  butter  or  crisco 

pressed  yeast  1  egg 

1  c.  milk,  scalded  and  cooled  J/2  t.  lemon  extract 

J4  c.  lukewarm  water  4  c.  sifted  flour 

y^  c.  sugar  ^  t.  salt 

Dissolve  the  yeast  and  1  tablespoon  of  sugar  in  the  luke- 
warm liquid.     Add  enough  flour  to  make  an  ordinary  sponge 

135 


Bread 

— about  1}4  cups.  Beat  until  perfectly  smooth;  cover  and 
set  aside  in  a  warm  place  to  rise  for  50  minutes,  or  until 
light.  Add  sugar  and  shortening  creamed,  egg  beaten,  lemon 
extract  and  about  2^^  cups  of  flour,  or  enough  to  make  a 
soft  dough.  Add  salt  with  the  last  of  the  flour.  Knead 
until  smooth  and  elastic,  place  in  greased  bowl,  cover  and 
set  aside  in  a  warm  place  to  rise  until  double  in  bulk — about 
1  hour.  Turn  out  on  board  and  shape  clover-leaf  rolls,  or 
any  fancy  twist.  Let  rise  until  light,  about  1  hour.  Bake  in 
hot  oven  IS  minutes. 

Waffles  with  Yeast 

1  cake  Fleischmann's  com-  1  tb.  melted  crisco 

pressed  yeast  2  eggs 

2  c.  milk,  scalded  and  cooled         2)4  c.  sifted  flour 
1  tb.  sugar  1  t.  salt 

Dissolve  the  yeast  and  sugar  in  the  lukewarm  liquid,  add 
shortening,  flour,  salt,  and  eggs  well  beaten.  Beat  thor- 
oughly until  batter  is  smooth;  cover  and  set  aside  to  rise  in 
a  warm  place,  free  from  draft,  for  about  1  hour.  When  light, 
stir  well.  Have  waffle  iron  hot  and  well  greased,  fill  the  cool 
side.  Brown  on  one  side,  turn  the  iron  and  brown  on  the 
other  side.    If  the  batter  is  too  thick,  the  waflle  will  be  tough. 

Bread  Sticks 

Take   rusk   or   bread    dough — rusk   is   better — and   when 

light  cut  pieces  from  the  side  and  roll  under  the  hands  to  the 

length  of  the  pan  and  the  thickness  of   a  lead   pencil.     Let 

rise  until  light,  bake  in  a  hot  oven  and  when   nearly  done 

glaze   with   egg.  ^    ^i.  i    t» 

^  ^^  English  Buns 

1  cake  Fleischmann's  com-  4  c.  sifted  flour 

pressed  yeast  J4  t.  salt 

J/2  c.  milk,  scalded  and  cooled  5  tb.  sugar 

J/^  c.  crisco,  melted  4  eggs 

1  c.  chopped  almonds 

Dissolve  the  yeast  and  5  tablespoons  of  sugar  in  the  luke- 
warm milk.     Add  crisco,  eggs  unbeaten,  flour  gradually,  and 

the  salt.  ^^^  „   11 

Egg  Rolls 

1  c.  mashed  Irish  potatoes  1  c.  sweet  milk,  scalded  and 

1  cake  Fleischmann's  yeast  cooled  to  tepid 

2  eggs  1  c.  tepid  water 
5^  c.  sugar  2  tb.  melted  crisco 

Enough  flour  to  make  drop  batter 

Boil  potatoes  until  tender,  put  through  ricer,  while  warm 
add  the  sugar  to  them,  then  the  well  beaten  eggs — now  the 

136 


Bread 

yeast  which  has  been  dissolved  in  the  water,  add  milk  and 
flour  alternately.  Set  to  rise  in  a  warm  place,  when  sponge 
has  risen  to  twice  its  bulk,  add  melted  crisco,  make  into  a 
smooth  dough,  with  about  1  quart  of  flour  which  has  been 
sifted  with  1  tablespoonful  of  salt.  Knead  thoroughly, 
set  aside  to  rise,  when  light  roll  out,  cut  with  biscuit  cutter, 
place  in  well  greased  pans,  and  allow  to  rise  again  until  double 
in  size,  which  should  take  about  20  minutes,  then  bake. 

Tea  Rolls 

1  cake  Fleischmann's  com-  1  tb.  sugar 

pressed  yeast  3  c.  sifted  flour 

}4  c.  milk,  scalded  and  cooled  2  tb.  melted  crisco 

j4  c.  lukewarm  water  }i  t.  salt 

Dissolve  the  yeast  and  sugar  in  the  lukewarm  liquid. 
Add  crisco  (or  butter)  and  half  of  the  flour,  beat  until  smooth, 
add  rest  of  flour,  or  enough  to  make  a  moderately  firm  dough, 
and  the  salt.  Knead  thoroughly;  roll  out  and  shape  as 
Parker  House  rolls.  Place  in  well  greased,  shallow  baking 
pans,  cover  and  set  to  rise  in  a  warm  place,  free  from  draft, 
for  about  2  hours.  When  light,  bake  in  a  hot  oven  10 
minutes. 

TIMBALES 

To  make  timbales  you  must  have  a  timbale  mold  of  iron. 
This  is  dipped  into  batter  and  is  then  held  in  hot  fat  until 
the  coat  of  batter  is  cooked.  Then  this  crust  is  slipped  off 
the  iron  and  another  timbale  case  is  cooked  in  the  same  way. 
The  timbale  irons  are  heart-shaped,  star-shaped,  round, 
square  or  oval. 

For  the  Batter 

The  following  recipe  for  timbale  batter  has  been  tried 
with  success:  Take  ^  cup  of  flour  and  mix  with  a  teaspoon 
of  sugar  and  ^  teaspoon  of  salt.  Add  to  it  ^  cup  of  milk, 
a  well  beaten  egg,  tablespoon  of  melted  butter  or  olive  oil 
and  whip  until  it  is  all  blended.  This  batter  should  be  placed 
in  a  cup  or  bowl  into  which  the  timbale  iron  may  be  dipped, 
so  that  the  outside  of  the  mold  will  be  covered  with  the 
preparation. 

Timbale  Cases 

Put  a  kettle  of  fat  on  the  fire.  It  should  get  as  hot  as  is 
required  for  baking  doughnuts.  Dip  the  timbale  iron  into 
the  fat  and  let  the  mold  heat.     Then  dip  into  the  batter 

10  137 


Bread 

and  lift  it  out  again.  A  film  of  the  batter  will  cling  to  the 
iron.  Submerge  this  in  the  pan  of  fat,  and  when  it  is  cooked 
lift  it  and  set  on  a  folded  napkin  or  absorbent  paper  to  drain. 
Then  proceed  to  cook  more  timbale  cases  in  the  same  way. 
Creamed  mushrooms,  chicken,  veal,  oysters  or  fish  may  be 
served  in  the  cases. 

A  Rich  Combination — Mutton  Timbales 

Take  ^  pound  of  finely  minced  cold  mutton,  a  teaspoon 
of  chopped  parsley,  a  tablespoon  of  bread  crumbs,  a  dessert- 
spoonful of  chopped  mushrooms,  1  egg,  a  gill  of  stock,  a  little 
pepper  and  salt.  Mix  all  the  ingredients  and  steam  for  20 
minutes.  If  canned  mushrooms  are  used  for  this  recipe 
they  should  be  cooked  in  butter  for  a  few  minutes.  Buttered 
timbale  cases  should  be  filled  with  the  mixture  set  on  a  silver 
dish  to  serve  and  covered  wuth  a  good,  thick  gravy  with 
fried  mushrooms  in  it. 

Chicken  Timbales 

Cook  together,  till  a  paste  is  formed,  ^  cup  of  stale  bread 
crumbs  and  ^  cup  of  milk.  Add  2  ounces  of  butter,  the 
stiffly  beaten  white  of  1  egg,  salt  to  taste,  a  few  grains  only 
of  cayenne,  and  a  pinch  of  ground  nutmeg.  Add  to  this 
^  cup  of  raw  chicken  breast,  which  has  been  beaten  to  a 
paste  in  a  mortar  and  forced  through  a  fine  strainer.  Fill  the 
timbale  cases  with  this  and  garnish  with  mushrooms  cut  in 
fancy  shapes. 


138 


CHAPTER  XV 

PASTRY 

We  have,  for  the  last  decade,  been  trying  to  exclude  pies 
and  substitute  delicate  puddings  and  fresh  fruit  in  our  dietaries, 
but  there  are  some  with  whom  nothing  takes  the  place  of  pies. 
It  is  vastly  important  to  know  that  the  chief  constituents  of 
pastry  are  entirely  antagonistic  in  their  mode  of  digestion,  and 
wherever  used  shortening  with  a  low  melting  point  free  from 
odor  and  flavor  and  pastry  flour  of  the  soft  winter  wheat  get 
best  results.  Use  nothing  but  fresh,  ripe  fruit  or  delicate 
custards. 

In  order  to  make  good  pie  crust,  everything  must  be  ice- 
cold — the  shortening,  flour,  water  and  utensils  used  in  the 
preparation  of  the  dough  should  all  be  chilled  beforehand, 
— cutting  the  shortening  into  the  flour  with  two  silver  knives 
chilled  in  ice  water  gives  an  even  distribution  of  the  shorten- 
ing and  flour  without  melting  the  shortening.  It  is  necessary 
to  work  rapidly  and  with  a  light  touch.  A  heated  kitchen  is 
not  productive  of  best  pastry.  Its  lightness  depends  upon  the 
amount  of  air  enclosed  and  the  expansion  of  that  air  in  the 
baking.  Its  flakiness  depends  upon  the  kind  and  amount  of 
shortening  used.  Crisco  will  give  a  tenderer  crust  than  butter. 
Where  the  flavor  of  butter  is  desired,  one  tablespoonful  may 
be  added.  In  rolling  pastry  use  a  light  motion  rolling  from 
you,  as  less  force  is  expended  on  the  outward  stroke  than  on 
one  where  the  hands  are  drawn  back  towards  the  body. 
Utensils  best  adapted  are  a  small  enamel  mixing  bowl,  alumi- 
num measuring  cup,  two  silver  knives,  one  spatula,  tablespoon, 
sifter,  glass  rolling  pin,  aluminum  bread  board  and  pastry 
wheel. 

Plain  Pastry 

1  c.  flour  Just  enough  cold  water  to 

5  t.  crisco  hold  dough  together 

y2  t.  salt  (This  makes  two  crusts) 

Sift  the  flour  and  the  salt  and  cut  the  crisco  into  the  flour 
until  it  is  finely  divided.  Then  add  the  water  sparingly, 
mixing  it  with  a  knife  through  the  dry  materials.  Form  into 
a  dough,  roll  out  on  a  floured  board,  about  ^  inch  thick.  Use 
a  light  motion  in  handling  the  rolling  pin,  and  roll  from  the 
center  outward. 

139 


Pastry 

The  crisco  should  be  of  a  consistency  such  that  when 
scooped  out  with  a  spoon  it  rounds  up  egg  shape.  Crisco  will 
always  be  in  excellent  condition  for  use  if  kept  at  the  usual 
room  temperature. 

Flake  Pastry 

1  c.  flour  Just  enough  cold  water  to 

4  tb.  crisco  hold  dough  together 

J/2  t.  salt  (Two  tb.  should  be  sufficient) 

Sift  the  flour  and  the  salt  and  cut  half  the  crisco  into  the 
flour  with  a  knife  until  it  is  finely  divided.  The  finger  tips 
may  be  used  to  finish  blending  the  materials.  Then  add  the 
water  sparingly,  mixing  it  with  a  knife  through  the  dry  materi- 
als. Form  with  the  hand  into  a  dough  and  roll  out  on  a  floured 
board  to  ^  inch  in  thickness. 

Spread  one-third  of  the  remaining  crisco  on  the  two- 
thirds  of  the  dough  nearest  you;  fold  twice,  so  as  to  make 
three  layers,  folding  in  first  the  part  on  which  the  crisco  has 
not  been  spread.  Turn  dough,  putting  folded  edges  to  the 
sides;  roll  out,  spread  and  fold  as  before.  Repeat  once  more. 
Use  a  light  motion  in  handling  the  rolling  pin,  and  roll  from 
the  center  outward. 

Plain  Pie  Crust 

\}4  c.  flour  Enough  ice  water  to  make  a 

J/2  c.  crisco  dough 

}4  t.  salt 

Cut  the  shortening  into  the  flour  with  silver  knife  and  roll 
the  dough  out.  Dot  over  with  crisco,  fold  several  times  and 
roll  out  again,  line  pans  and  cover  with  the  same,  or  use  the 
flake  pastry  for  covering  the  pie.  Crust  for  pie  should  be 
about  J4  inch  thick  and  rolled  larger  than  pans  to  allow  for 
shrinkage.     Perforate  top  crusts  to  allow  steam  to  escape. 


German  Paste 

5  c.  flour  2  yolks  of  eggs 

\J/2  c.  crisco  l}4  t.  salt 

J/3  c.  ground  almonds  Water 

1  c.  sugar 

Sift  flour  and  almonds  into  basin,  rub  crisco  into  them,  add 
salt,  sugar,  eggs  well  beaten  and  water  to  make  stiff"  paste. 
Leave  in  cool  place  2  hours,  then  roll  out  and  use  for  pies. 

140 


Pastry 

T'ruit  Turnovers 

(Suitable  for  Picnics) 

Make  a  nice  pufF  paste;  roll  it  out  the  usual  thickness,  as 
for  pies;  then  cut  it  out  into  circular  pieces  about  the  size  of  a 
small  tea  saucer;  pile  the  fruit  on  half  of  the  paste,  sprinkle 
over  some  sugar,  wet  the  edges  and  turn  the  paste  over.  Press 
the  edges  together,  ornament  them  and  brush  the  turnovers 
over  with  the  white  of  an  egg;  sprinkle  over  sifted  sugar  and 
bake  on  tins,  in  a  brisk  oven,  for  about  20  minutes.  Instead 
of  putting  the  fruit  in  raw,  it  may  be  boiled  down  with  a  little 
sugar  first  and  then  enclosed  in  the  crust;  or  jam  of  any  kind 
may  be  substituted  for  fresh  fruit. 

Hot  Water  Paste 

1  c.  flour  J^  t.  salt 

4  tb.  crisco  3^  t.  baking  powder 

3  tb.  boiling  water 

Sift  flour,  salt  and  baking  powder  into  basin,  rub  crisco 
lightly  into  them,  then  stir  in  boiling  water.  Cool  paste  be- 
fore using  or  it  will  be  too  sticky  to  handle. 

French  Pastry 

J/2  lb,  flour  Grated  peel  }^  lemon 

2  tb.  sugar  )4  lb.  butter 
4  egg  yolks  ^  t.  salt 

Sift  together  the  flour,  sugar  and  salt.  Cut  in  the  butter 
and  lemon  rind,  then  add  the  slightly  beaten  yolks.  One  or 
2  tablespoonfuls  ice  water  may  be  needed.  Set  on  ice  to  chill. 
Roll  about  ys  inch  thick,  glaze  top  with  beaten  egg  (white  and 
yolk)  sprinkle  sugar,  chopped  nuts,  or  crystallized  fruits.  Bake 
in  a  moderate  oven  after  cutting  into  desired  shapes. 

To  Glaze  Pastry 

To  glaze  pastry,  break  an  egg,  separate  the  yolk  from  the 
white  and  beat  the  former  for  a  short  time.  Then,  when  the 
pastry  is  nearly  baked,  take  it  out  of  the  oven,  brush  it  over 
with  the  beaten  yolk  of  egg,  and  put  back  in  the  oven  to  set 
the  glaze. 

When  making  pies  tuck  the  upper  crust  under  the  lower 
crust  and  then  press  down  with  a  fork.  You  will  never  have 
any  trouble  with  juice  running  out,  and  in  this  way  pies  slip 
oflF  the  plate  without  trouble. 

141 


Pastry 

Rhubarb  Pie 

Chop  2  cupfuls  rhubarb,  and  let  stand  10  minutes  in  water 
poured  over  it  boiling  hot.  Drain,  and  mix  with  it  the  fruit, 
a  cupful  of  sugar,  the  yolk  of  an  egg,  a  tablespoon  of  butter, 
and  1  of  flour,  moisten  with  3  tablespoonfuls  water.  Bake  in 
one  crust,  covering  the  top  with  narrow  strips  of  pastry 
crossed,  or  with  meringue. 

Fruit-Rhubarb  Pie 

Take  3  heaping  cups  chopped  rhubarb,  1  of  chopped  and 
seeded  raisins,  and  3  plain  crushed  crackers,  powdered.  Mix 
and  add  ^  cup  of  molasses,  1^  cups  sugar,  1  teaspoon  butter, 
spice  and  salt  to  taste.  This  amount  will  make  three  pies. 
Bake  in  two  crusts. 

Lemon  Meringue  Pie  (Lettie) 

4  eggs  2  c.  rich  milk 

2  c.  sugar  2  tb.  butter 

2  tb.  flour  }4  t.  salt 

3  large  lemons 

Cream  sugar  and  yolks  of  eggs,  add  salt,  flour,  then  butter 
and  milk.  Add  lemon  just  before  baking.  Put  meringue  on 
when  pie  is  cool. 

Chess  Cakes 

4  eggs  2  c.  rich  milk 

3  tb.  cornmeal  4  tb.  butter 
l}4  c.  sugar                                               }i  t.  nutmeg 

Cream  the  yolks  of  eggs  and  sugar.  Add  cornmeal.  Scald 
the  milk  and  add  gradually  to  the  custard.  Add  the  flavoring 
and  butter  and  fill  pastry  shells,  using  plain  pastry. 

Recipe  for  the  shells:  Make  a  meringue  of  the  white  of 
egg,  using  1  tablespoonful  confectioner's  sugar  for  each  egg 
white.  After  the  custard  is  well  set,  cover  with  meringue  and 
place  in  moderate  oven  until  nicely  browned. 

Chess  Cakes 

7  eggs  2  c.  sugar 

^  c.  butter  X  t.  salt 

2  tb.  cornstarch  2  tb.  water 

1  c.  jelly,  apple  or  grape 

Mix  cornstarch  with  sugar  and  cream  with  butter.  Beat 
egg  yolks  with  salt  and  add  to  mixture,  stirring  in  warm  jelly. 
After  thoroughly  mixed,  add  beaten  whites.     If  too  stiff,  2 

142 


Pastry 

tablespoonfuls  water  may  be  added.  Line  mold  with  plain 
pastry  and  fill  with  mixture.  Cook  20  to  30  minutes.  This 
filling  is  sufficient  for  24  cakes. 

Apple  Pie 

Sprinkle  lower  crust  with  flour,  then  add  1  cup  sugar.  Pare 
apples,  slice  thin  and  place  in  orderly  manner.  Add  ^  tea- 
spoon salt  and  ^  teaspoon  cinnamon  or  nutmeg  and  ^  table- 
spoon butter.  Cover  with  upper  crust  and  bake  in  moderate 
oven  1  hour.     Use  plain  pie  crust. 

Note — If  juice  boils  out,  lower  temperature  of  oven. 

Pie  Crust 

1  c.  flour  }4  t.  salt 

5  tb.  crisco  2  tb.  water 

Combine  ingredients  as  for  plain  pastry.  Roll  paste  very 
thin.  For  all  pies  made  with  one  crust,  use  a  deep  pie  plate 
and  line  it  without  stretching  the  paste  in  the  least.  Remember 
that  all  pastry  shrinks  in  the  baking  and  allow  for  this  shrink- 
age. Trim  the  edges  with  a  fork  or  by  fluting,  and  prick 
every  part  of  the  center  and  sides  with  a  fork  before  placing 
at  once  in  a  quick  oven.  If  gas  range  is  used,  place  pastry  on 
lower  shelf;  if  a  coal  range,  where  a  good  bottom  heat  can  be 
obtained. 

Note — Pastry  burns  readily  and  these  crusts  are  very  thin. 

Raisin  Pie 

Boil  2  cups  raisins,  juice  1  lemon  and  ^  cup  sugar  with  1 
cup  water  until  raisins  are  tender.  Line  pie-pan  with  pastry, 
put  in  raisins  and  dot  over  with  butter  and  spice,  cover  with 
pastry  and  bake. 

Chess  Cakes 

5  eggs  (yolks)  2  tb.  cornmeal 

2  c.  sugar  1  c.  sweet  milk 

}4  c.  butter  Flavor  with  vanilla 

Mix  custard  well  and  bake  in  muffin  rings  lined  with 
pastry.  Make  a  meringue  of  beaten  whites  and  2  tablespoons 
sugar. 

Molasses  Custard  Pie 

2  c.  sorghum  1  c.  sugar 

4  tb.  crisco  9  egg  yolks 

1  tb.  flour 
Cream  yolks  and  sugar,  add  crisco  and  sorghum,  beaten 
whites  of  4  eggs.     Use  balance  of  the  whites  for  meringue. 

143 


Pastry 

Pineapple  Fie 

Pare  the  pineapples  and  chop  as  finely  as  possible.  To  1 
cup  of  pineapple  use  2  eggs,  1  cup  milk,  2  tablespoons  sugar, 
pinch  salt,  mix  as  custard  and  bake  in  rich  pastry  crust. 

Raisin  and  Apple  Pie 

Line  pie-tin  with  pastry,  and  place  first  one  layer  thin  apple 
slices,  a  sprinkle  of  sugar  and  cinnamon;  then  a  layer  of  raisins 
and  so  on  until  pan  is  full.     Put  on  top  crust  and  bake. 

Molasses  Pie 

1^  c.  sugar  1)4  c.  molasses  (sorghum) 

3  tb.  butter  6  eggs 

7  tb.  flour 

Cream  sugar  or  butter  and  eggs  together,  add  molasses  and 
flour.  Bake  in  pastry  lined  pans  and  make  meringue  of  whites 
and  2  tablespoonfuls  sugar. 

Blackberry  Pie 

/Line  a  pie-plate  with  plain  paste;  carefully  look  over  a  pint 
of  ripe  blackberries;  put  them  in  a  pie-dish,  keeping  them  a 
little  in  the  middle  of  the  dish;  dust  with  2  tablespoonfuls 
flour,  and  add  a  cupful  of  sugar.  Make  a  paste  of  a  teaspoon- 
ful  flour  and  little  water,  with  which  brush  over  the  edge  of  the 
under  crust  to  prevent  the  juice  from  escaping;  add  the  upper 
crust  and  trim  the  superfluous  crust  from  the  edge  with  a 
knife.  Bake  in  a  quick  oven.  Dust  with  powdered  sugar  or 
cover  with  a  meringue  made  of  the  white  of  1  egg  and  a  table- 
spoonful  of  pulverized  sugar,  or  omit  both  and  eat  plain. 


Cherry  Pie 

Prepare  the  requisite  quantity  of  cherries  by  removing  the 
pits;  line  a  pie-plate  with  crusts,  fill  with  cherries;  sprinkle 
with  a  few  bits  of  butter,  about  2  tablespoonfuls  flour,  and  ^ 
cupful  of  sugar  if  white  cherries  are  used,  but  if  red,  sour  ones, 
a  whole  cupful  of  sugar  will  be  required.  Cover  with  an  upper 
crust,  making  a  few  short  gashes  in  the  center.  Bake  until  the 
crust  is  done  and  of  a  delicate  brown. 

144 


Pastry 

Lemon  Raisin  Pie 

One  cupful  chopped  raisins,  seeded;  the  juice  and  grated 
rind  of  1  lemon,  1  cupful  cold  water,  1  tablespoonful  of  flour, 
1  cupful  sugar,  and  2  tablespoonfuls  butter.  Stir  lightly  to- 
gether and  bake  with  upper  and  under  crust. 

Coconut  Pie 

One  cupful  grated  fresh  coconut,  \}4  cupfuls  sweet  milk, 
the  yolks  of  4  eggs,  a  little  salt,  1  tablespoonful  melted  butter 
and  sugar  to  taste.  Beat  the  whole  about  5  minutes  and 
put  into  shell  previously  prepared.  Set  into  the  oven  and 
bake  until  the  crust  and  filling  are  done,  then  cover  with  the 
whites  (which  have  been  beaten  to  a  stiff  froth)  and  browned 
before  removing  from  the  oven.  If  desiccated  coconut  is 
used  soak  it  in  milk  over  night. 

Meringue 

Beaten  white  of  egg  and  1  tablespoonful  powdered  sugar  to 
make  tender.  One-sixteenth  teaspoonful  cream  tartar.  Place 
in  very  slow  oven  until  biscuit  colored. 

Clear  Lemon  Pies 

Dissolve  4  tablespoonfuls  cornstarch  in  a  little  cold  water 
and  stir  it  in  with  1^  pints  boiling  water  until  it  thickens. 
Just  before  setting  it  away  to  cool,  add  1  dessertspoonful  of 
butter.  Grate  the  rind  and  squeeze  the  juice  of  3  lemons,  and 
add  with  it  about  1^  cups  of  sugar — the  quantity  of  sugar 
must  be  governed  largely  by  taste,  as  lemons  vary  so  much  in 
size  and  juiciness.  Before  the  cornstarch  is  fairly  cold,  add 
it  to  the  lemon  and  sugar. 

Line  two  pie-plates;  prick  it  to  prevent  its  rising  unevenly 
and  bake  it.  Fill  these  crusts  with  the  mixture,  return  them  to 
the  oven  till  thoroughly  heated,  then  spread  over  them  a 
meringue  of  the  whites  of  3  eggs.  Brown  it  delicately,  and 
cool  the  pies  gradually.  They  should  be  entirely  cold  when 
served. 

Butter -Scotch  Pie 

Mix  1  cupful  dark  brown  sugar  with  3  tablespoonfuls  flour 
and  a  pinch  of  salt;  add  the  yolks  of  2  eggs,  1  teaspoonful 
melted  crisco  and  1  cupful  milk.  Cook  in  double  boiler  until 
thick  and  pour  into  baked  crust.  Cover  with  meringue  and 
bake  in  oven. 

145 


Pastry 

Butter-Scotch  Pie 

Bake  pastry  rolled  as  for  pie  crust  on  the  outside  of  an 
inverted  pie-pan.  Prick  the  paste  all  over  and  set  it  on  a  tin 
sheet  to  keep  the  edge  from  contact  with  the  oven.  When 
baked  set  inside  the  pan,  turn  in  butter-scotch  filling  and  cover 
with  meringue,  made  of  the  whites  of  2  eggs  and  2  table- 
spoonfuls  granulated  sugar.  Let  bake  about  10  minutes. 
Serve  when  partly  or  wholly  cold. 

Filling  for  Lemon  or  Orange  Pie 

1^  tb.  cornstarch  1  egg  yolk 

1  c.  boiling  water  ^4  tb.  butter 
1  c.  sugar  Pinch  salt 

1  large  lemon  or  orange  (juice)  1  large  lemon  or  orange  (rind) 

Separate  the  yolk  and  white  of  egg.  Mix  cornstarch  to  the 
consistency  of  cream  with  cold  water.  Add  boiling  water  until 
cornstarch  loses  its  whiteness  and  becomes  transparent.  Add 
sugar,  let  boil  up  once  over  the  fire,  then  place  in  double  boiler 
over  hot  water  for  }4  hour.  When  cooked  IS  minutes,  add 
the  grated  rind  and  piece  of  butter,  allow  to  cook  until  no  taste 
of  cornstarch  is  perceptible.  Remove  from  the  fire,  add  the 
beaten  yolk  of  egg,  the  juice  of  lemon  or  orange  and  a  generous 
pinch  of  salt.  Pour  into  the  baked  crust.  Add  meringue  and 
bake  in  quick  oven. 

Mincemeat 

Boil  2  pounds  tongue  until  tender,  3  pounds  round  steak; 
when  cold  chop  fine. 

4  lbs.  raisins  ^  oz.  cloves 

4  lbs.  sugar  ^2  oz.  allspice 
1  lb.  orange  or  lemon  peel  I  t.  mace 

1  oz.  cinnamon  1  t.  white  pepper 

Juice  and  rind  of  5  lemons  1  pt.  brandy 

1  pt.  wine  3  pts.  good  cider 

Put  fruit  together  and  boil  in  liquor  from  beef  for  about 
}4  hour;  drain,  add  spices,  1  pound  suet  chopped  fine;  add 
liquids  and  the  5  pounds  chopped  apples.  Put  in  quart  jars 
and  seal.     Will  keep  for  months. 

Mincemeat  Pie 

Make  rich  crust  and  fill  with  mincemeat,  adding  a  little 
hot  water  to  it  if  not  thin  enough.     Put  on  top  crust  and  bake. 

146 


Pastry 
Pumpkin 

1  qt.  stewed  pumpkins  ^  c.  molasses 

3  c.  rich  milk  4  eggs  (save  whites  for 

1  c.  sugar  meringue) 

Salt,  cinnamon  and  ginger  to  taste 

Banbury  Tarts 

1  c.  raisins  Juice  and  rind  of  1  orange 
)/2  c.  currants                                           J4  c.  sherry 

2  large  soda  crackers  1  c.  brown  sugar 
Juice  and  rind  of  1  lemon  1  egg 

Roll  crackers,  mix  ingredients.  Roll  pastry  very  thin.  Cut 
in  rounds,  place  2  teaspoonfuls  of  the  mixture  in  center,  wet 
edges,  fold,  press  edges  together  with  fork  dipped  in  flour.  Snip 
holes  in  top  with  scissors.     Bake  until  brown  in  hot  oven. 

Napoleons 

Bake  paste  in  three  thin  sheets,  pricking  thoroughly  before 
baking.  When  baked,  put  together  with  cream  filling.  Cover 
top  with  confectioner's  icing,  and  sprinkle  generously  with 
finely  chopped  pistachio  nuts. 

Valentine  Tarts 

Bake  flake  pastry  in  small,  fancy  patty  pans.  Fill  with 
valentine  cream,  placing  ^  blanched  almond  on  each. 

Filling  for  Lemon  Tarts 

5  tb.  flour,  or  1  c.  sugar 

3  tb.  corn  starch  1  t.  crisco 

1  lemon,  juice  and  rind  2  c.  boiling  water 

2  egg  yolks 

Mix  the  flour  and  sugar,  crisco  and  lemon  (rind  to  be  grated, 
juice  strained  so  no  seeds  remain;  they  give  that  unpleasantly 
bitter  taste).  Add  the  hot  water  and  let  boil  up  once.  Place 
in  double  boiler,  add  the  beaten  egg  yolks,  stirring  constantly. 
Cook  about  10  minutes. 

Valentine  Cream 

J^  c.  flour  2  c.  scalded  milk 

yi  t.  salt  1  c.  finely  ground  almonds 

2  tb.  sugar  1  t.  almond  extract 

2  eggs 

Mix  and  sift  the  dry  ingredients.  Beat  the  eggs  well  and 
add  to  the  dry  mixture.  Gradually  pour  over  this  the  scalded 
milk,  stirring  constantly  until  it  thickens.  Cook  15  minutes 
in  a  double  boiler.     Stir  in  the  almonds,  and  add  the  extract. 

147 


Pastry 


Lemon  Jelly  for  Tarts 


2  tb.  gelatin  }4  c.  cold  water 

2y2  c.  boiling  water  ^4  c.  lemon  juice 

Soak  gelatin  20  minutes  in  cold  water,  then  dissolve  in 
boiling  water.  Strain  and  add  sugar  and  lemon  juice.  Mold 
and  chill. 

Tart  Filling 

^  c.  raisins  ^  c.  currants 

}^  c.  citron 

Chop  fine.  I  put  them  through  the  food  chopper.  Roll 
the  pastry  moderately  thin  and  cut  into  4-inch  squares;  on  the 
center  put  a  portion  of  the  fruit  mixture,  and  bring  the  corners 
together,  moistening  them  slightly  to  keep  in  place.  Bake  in 
an  oven  hot  enough  for  flake  pastry. 

Cherry  Pie 

Stone  a  quart  of  red  cherries;  cover  with  a  cupful  of  sugar 
mixed  with  2  tablespoonfuls  of  flour.  Line  two  deep  pie- 
dishes  with  plain  pastry  and  brush  it  over  with  the  white  of  an 
egg>  slightly  beaten.     Stand  aside  while  you  roll  out  the  upper. 

Almond  Layer  Pie 

Pastry  Filling 

\y2  c.  flour  6  tb.  crisco 

7  tb.  crisco  1  c.  sugar 

^2  t.  salt  3  eggs 

Water  }4  c.  blanched  and  powdered 

almonds 
Grated  rind  of  1  lemon 

Make  a  short  crust  of  flour,  crisco,  salt  and  water.  Roll 
out  thin  and  line  bottom  and  sides  of  a  pie-pan.  Cream 
crisco,  add  sugar  and  cream  together;  add  yolks  of  eggs 
separately  and  well  beaten;  then  rind  of  lemon,  almonds  and 
lastly  well  beaten  whites  of  eggs.  Mix  thoroughly  and  spread 
one-half  of  the  mixture  onto  the  pastry.  Then  cover  with  a 
layer  of  pastry,  the  rest  of  mixture,  and  lastly  cover  with 
pastry. 

If  liked,  the  pastry  may  be  rolled  out,  brushed  over  with 
crisco,  then  mixture  spread  over  it,  and  rolled  up  to  form  a 
roly-poly.     Bake  in  a  moderate  oven  until  brown. 

148 


Pastry 
Apple  Dumplings 

2  c.  flour  ^  t.  salt 

4  tb.  crisco  Sugar 

^  c.  milk  Cinnamon 

4  t.  baking  powder  Crisco 

4  apples 

Mix  first  five  ingredients  the  same  as  for  baking  powder 
biscuits.  Roll  }4  inch  thick,  cut  into  squares  and  lay  in  the 
center  of  each  an  apple,  pared  and  cored.  Fill  place  that  was 
cored  with  sugar  and  cinnamon  and  take  corners  and  pinch 
together.  Place  in  a  baking  pan  greased  with  crisco,  dot  over 
with  sugar  and  crisco  and  bake  in  a  moderate  oven  until  brown. 
These  are  best  served  hot. 


149 


CHAPTER  XVI 

CAKES— GINGERBREADS 

"Cake  is  to  the  appetite  what  mirth  is  to  the  melancholy." 
Brown  Sugar  Cookies 

2  eggs  2  t.  cream  tartar 

1)4  c.  brown  sugar  1  t.  soda 

^  c.  butter  or  crisco  X  t*  salt 
1  t.  vanilla  3  c.  flour 

In  measuring  sugar,  pack  solidly  in  cup.  Combine  sugar, 
butter  and  eggs  well  beaten.  Add  flour,  soda,  cream  tartar 
and  salt. 

Filled  Cookies 

1  c.  sugar  (fine  granulated  is  best)  1  egg 

^2  c.  crisco  or  butter  1  t.  soda 

)4  c.  milk  2  t.  cream  tartar 

3)4  c.  flour  1  t.  vanilla 

Filling 

1  c.  chopped  raisins  }4  c  sugar 
}4  c.  water  1  t.  flour 

Cook  until  thick,  being  careful  not  to  burn. 

Roll  cookies  thin  and  put  in  pan  with  a  teaspoonful  of 
the  filling  on  each,  letting  it  come  not  quite  to  the  edges. 
Place  another  cookie  on  each  and  bake  in  a  moderate  oven. 

Snaps 

}4  c.  crisco  1  t.  baking  powder 

2  c.  light  brown  sugar  }4  t.  ground  cinnamon 
2  c.  flour  (sifted  before  measured)  ^  t.  nutmeg 

Yolks  of  3  eggs  (well  beaten)      X  t-  cloves 
J/2  oz.  carb.  ammonia  }4  t.  lemon  extract 

Pulverize  the  ammonia;  then  dissolve  it  in  about  J/2  cup 
of  water  (cold).  After  it  is  all  mixed  put  by  teaspoonfuls 
the  mixture  in  well  greased  baking  sheet  about  3  or  4  inches 
apart. 

Peanut  Macaroons 

White  1  egg  J^  t.  flour 

Pinch  cream  of  tartar  ^  c.  peanuts 

J4  c.  sugar 
Beat  the  whites  with  the  cream  of  tartar  until  stiff.     Beat 
in  one  half  the  sugar.     Add  the  rest  of  the  sugar,  folding  it  in 
with  the  flour  and  pounded  nut  meats.     Bake  in  a  moderate 
oven  on  paper  on  the  bottom  of  pans. 

150 


Cakes — Gingerbreads 

Peanut  Cookies 

1  c.  flour  1  egg,  beaten  well 

1  t.  baking  powder  2  tb.  sweet  milk 

2  tb.  crisco  J^  t.  salt 

^2  c.  sugar  1  c.  finely  chopped  peanuts 

Sift  dry  ingredients  together.  Cream  crisco  and  sugar, 
add  egg  well  beaten,  put  in  little  flour,  and  a  little  milk 
alternately  till  all  is  added.  Add  peanuts  finely  chopped. 
Drop  by  teaspoonfuls  on  greased  tins  an  inch  or  two  apart. 
Put  half  a  peanut  on  each  cookie  and  bake  in  a  quick  oven. 
(Two  cupfuls  peanuts  equal  ^  cupful  shelled.) 

Molasses  Cookies 

}4  c.  sugar  1  t.  ginger 

1  c.  molasses  ^  c.  cold  water  for  soft  cookies 

^2  c.  crisco  or  boiling  water  for  crisp 

1  t.  salt  cookies. 

2  rounding  t,  soda  Sufficient  flour  to  roll  out 

Mix  sugar,  molasses  and  shortening.  Add  water  and 
2  cups  of  flour  mixed  and  sifted  w^th  soda,  salt  and  spices. 
Add  enough  more  flour  to  roll  out.     Bake  in  hot  oven. 

Hermits 

2  c.  brown  sugar  2  tb.  hot  water 

^  c.  crisco  1  c.  chopped  raisins 

3  eggs  yi  t.  ginger 

1  t.  soda  1  t.  each  of  cinnamon,  cloves 

Flour  to  mix  a  soft  dough  and  nutmeg 

Combine  brown  sugar,  crisco  and  yolks  of  eggs  well  beaten; 
add  whites  of  eggs  beaten  until  stiff,  soda  dissolved  in  hot 
water,  2  cups  of  flour  mixed  and  sifted  with  spices  and  raisins 
mixed  with  a  little  flour;  then  add  enough  more  flour  to  mix 
a  soft  dough.     Roll  out,  shape,  and  make  as  molasses  cookies. 

Ginger  Snaps 

1  c.  molasses  }4  t.  soda 

}4  c.  crisco  1  tb.  ginger 

3^  c.  flour  1^  t.  salt 

Heat  molasses  to  the  boiling  point  and  pour  over  crisco 
and  dry  ingredients  mixed  and  sifted.  Chill  thoroughly. 
Toss  one-fourth  of  the  mixture  on  a  floured  board,  and  roll 
as  thinly  as  possible;  shape  with  a  small,  round  cutter,  first 
dipped  in  flour.  Place  close  together  on  a  sheet  greased 
with  crisco  and  bake  in  a  moderate  oven. 

151 


Cakes — Ginger  breads 

Spice  Fancies 

J^  c.  molasses  }4  t.  soda 

X  c.  sugar  J/2  t.  salt 

3  tb.  crisco  }4  t.  cloves 

1  tb.  milk  X  t.  cinnamon 

2  c.  flour  X  t.  nutmeg 

Heat  molasses  to  the  boiling  point.  Add  sugar,  crisco 
and  milk.  Mix  and  sift  dry  ingredients  and  add  to  the  first 
mixture.  Cool  thoroughly.  Toss  on  a  floured  board,  roll 
as  thinly  as  possible,  shape  with  a  small  cutter.  Place  on  a 
sheet  greased  with  crisco  and  bake  in  a  moderate  oven. 

Drop  Cakes 

}/2  c.  crisco  2  c.  flour 

1  c.  sugar  4  t.  baking  powder 

2  eggs  2  t.  cinnamon 
X  c.  milk  X  t.  salt 

Cream  crisco  and  sugar,  add  well  beaten  eggs.  Sift  dry 
ingredients  and  add  to  mixture,  alternating  it  with  the  milk. 
Bake  in  gem  pans  that  have  been  greased  with  crisco. 

Ginger  Crackers 

1  pt.  New  Orleans  molasses  1  level  tb.  soda,  ginger,  cloves 
X  c.  crisco  and  cinnamon 

Put  the  whole  on  stove  to  boil.  Flour  to  stiffen.  Roll 
out  and  cut. 

Oatmeal  Crisps 

2}4  c.  dry  oatmeal  2  tb.  melted  crisco 

2  eggs  2  t.  baking  powder 

1  c.  sugar  }4  t.  salt 

Vanilla  to  taste 

Mix,  drop  on  greased  pan,  baking  in  a  moderate  oven. 
Scotch  Cookies 

2  eggs  2  tb.  flour 

2  tb.  crisco  2  c.  rolled  oats 

1  c.  brown  sugar  1  t.  salt 

1  t.  vanilla 

Beat  eggs,  add  remaining  ingredients.  Drop  by  teaspoon- 
fuls  on  criscoed  pan,  and  spread  each  out  thinly  as  small 
cookies.  Bake  in  moderate  oven  until  brown  (about  6 
minutes). 

152 


Cakes — Gingerbreads 

Walnut  Cakes 

J^  c.  crisco  2  c.  flour 

^  c.  brown  sugar  j^  t.  cinnamon 

}4  c.  boiling  water  H  t.  cloves 

2  tb.  molasses  K  t.  nutmeg 

1  t.  soda  )4  t.  salt 

Walnut  halves 

Cream  crisco  and  sugar,  add  water  and  molasses.  Sift 
dry  ingredients  and  add  to  first  mixture.  Drop  from  a  spoon 
on  baking  tin,  greased  with  crisco.  Press  a  half  walnut 
meat  into  each  cake  and  bake  in  a  moderate  oven. 

Chocolate  Cookies 

}4  c.  crisco  2  oz.  chocolate 

1  c.  sugar  2}4  c.  flour 

1  egg  2  t.  baking  powder 

1  t.  salt  K  c.  milk 

^  t.  vanilla 

Cream  the  crisco,  add  sugar  gradually,  egg  well  beaten* 
salt  and  melted  chocolate.  Beat  well  and  add  flour,  mixed 
and  sifted  with  baking  powder,  alternately  with  milk.  Roll 
very  thin,  shape  with  small  cutter,  and  bake  in  a  moderate 
oven. 

Rolled  Oats  Wafers 

2  tb.  crisco  1  t.  vanilla 
6  tb.  sugar                                         }i  t.  salt 

1  egg  1  c.  rolled  oats 

Cream  the  crisco  with  sugar,  add  beaten  egg,  vanilla,  salt 
and  oats.  Drop  from  a  spoon  on  a  baking  tin  that  has  been 
greased  with  crisco.     Bake  in  a  moderate  oven. 

Sultana  Delights 

^  c.  crisco  1  t.  salt 

1^  c.  sugar  1  t.  cinnamon 

3  eggs  1  c.  English  walnuts 
1  t.  soda  }4  c.  currants 

1>^  tb.  hot  water  J4  c.  raisins 

3)4  c.  flour 

Cream  the  crisco,  add  sugar  gradually,  and  eggs  well 
beaten;  add  soda  dissolved  in  hot  water,  and  one-half  the 
flour,  mixed  and  sifted  with  salt  and  cinnamon.  Then  add 
fruit  which  has  been  dredged  with  1  tablespoonful  of  the 
measure  of  flour.  Add  remainder  of  flour  last.  Drop  by 
spoonfuls  1  inch  apart  on  sheets  greased  with  crisco  and  bake 
in  a  moderate  oven. 

11  153 


Cakes — Gingerbreads    » 

Rocks 

Beat  white  of  1  egg  stiff  and  add  2  teaspoonfuls  pulver- 
ized sugar  and  chopped  nuts.  Flavor,  spread  over  wafers 
or  crackers  and  brown  sHghtly  in  moderate  oven. 

Rocks 

Cream  1  cup  of  sugar,  ^  cup  butter,  2  well  beaten  eggs, 
Ij/^  cups  flour,  1  teaspoon  cinnamon,  1  teaspoon  cloves, 
^2  pound  chopped  English  walnuts  and  cup  raisins,  1  teaspoon 
soda  dissolved  in  little  hot  water.  Mix  and  drop  on  buttered 
baking  sheet.     Bake  in  moderate  oven. 

Fresno  Raisin  Cookies 

^  c.  crisco  1  c.  raisins  (seeded) 

2  c.  sugar  4  eggs 

5  c.  flour  1  t.  lemon 

}4  c.  milk  1  t.  vanilla 

1  c.  raisins  (seedless)  1  t.  soda 

1  t.  salt 

Cream  crisco  and  sugar,  add  eggs  (whole),  one  at  a  time. 
Beat  until  batter  is  smooth.  Add  lemon  and  vanilla.  Alter- 
nate with  flour  and  milk  and  stir  till  nice  and  smooth.  Lastly 
stir  in  raisins,  which  have  been  ground  through  a  meat  chop- 
per. The  dough  should  be  as  soft  as  can  be  handled  nicely. 
Roll  out  on  well  floured  board  ^  inch  thick.  Sprinkle  with 
sugar,  passing  the  rolling-pin  over  the  dough  once  to  adhere 
to  the  sugar.     Bake  6  to  8  minutes  in  a  moderately  hot  oven. 

Peanut  Cookies 

2  tb.  crisco  2  tb.  milk 
}4  c.  sugar  1  c.  flour 

^  t.  salt  IH  t.  baking  powder 

1  egg  ^2  t.  vanilla 

^  c.  peanuts  chopped  fine 

Cream  the  crisco,  add  sugar  and  well  beaten  eggs.  Stir 
in  the  milk  and  vanilla  and  add  this  to  the  dry  ingredients 
that  have  been  well  sifted  together.  Stir  in  the  peanuts  last 
of  all  and  drop  by  spoonfuls  on  a  buttered  pan.  Bake  in  a 
moderate  oven. 

154 


Cakes — Gingerbreads 


Hermits 


}^  c.  crisco  ^2  t.  cinnamon 

1  c.  sugar  }4  t.  cloves 

2  eggs  }4  t.  mace 
J4  c.  milk  ^2  t.  nutmeg 

2>?  c.  flour  H  t.  salt 

2  t.  baking  powder  1  tb.  cocoa 
y2  c.  raisins  chopped  fine 

Cream  the  crisco  and  sugar;  add  the  eggs  beaten  together; 
alternate  with  milk  and  dry  ingredients  sifted  together. 
Roll  }4  ir'ch  thick,  cut  in  squares  or  circles  and  bake  in  mod- 
erate oven  until  well  set. 

Fresno  Gems 

Place  1^  cups  of  sugar,  ^  cup  of  crisco  and  3  eggs  in 
mixing  bowl;  cream  thoroughly  until  smooth  and  light.  Sift 
3  cups  of  flour  three  times  with  a  teaspoon  each  of  salt  and 
cinnamon,  }^  teaspoon  of  cloves  and  4  teaspoonfuls  of  baking 
powder.  Add  this  alternately  to  first  mixture  with  a  scant 
cup  of  clear  coffee  (or  add  1  tablespoon  of  pulverized  coffee 
to  flour  and  use  milk  in  batter),  then  stir  in  lightly  1  cup  of 
raisins,  seeded,  halved  and  floured.  Bake  in  deep  greased 
pans  in  moderate  oven. 

Oatmeal  Cookies 

2  c.  rolled  oats  1  c.  crisco 

2  c.  white  flour  1  t.  salt 

1}4  c.  brown  sugar 

Mix  ingredients  thoroughly  with  hand.  Dissolve  ^ 
teaspoon  soda  in  ^  cup  hot  water;  add  little  by  little  till 
mixture  is  dissolved.  Roll  thin  with  plenty  of  flour.  Bake 
in  a  quick  oven. 

Filling  for  Cookies 

1  c.  chopped  raisins  ^  c.  water 
}4  c.  sugar  1  t.  flour 
Cook  until  thick. 

Coconut  Cookies 

2  eggs  3  c.  flour 
1  c.  sugar  1  t.  salt 

1  c.  cream  ^  c.  shredded  coconut 

3  t.  baking  powder 

Beat  eggs;  add  gradually  sugar,  coconut,  cream  and  dry 
ingredients.  Chill,  toss  on  floured  board,  pat  and  roll  ^ 
inch  thick,  cut  round.     Bake  in  moderate  oven. 

155 


Cakes — Gingerbreads 

Sugar  Cookies 

^  c.  crisco  2  t.  baking  powder 

1}4  c.  sugar  1^  t.  salt 

2  eggs  }4  t.  soda 

3>^  c.  flour  1  c.  sour  milk 

Cream  the  crisco,  add  sugar  gradually,  creaming  after 
each  addition.  Beat  the  eggs  and  add  to  the  mixture.  Sift 
the  dry  ingredients  together  and  add  to  the  first  mixture, 
alternating  at  first  with  the  sour  milk.  Keep  cold  and  as 
soft  as  can  be  handled.  Roll  to  ^  inch  thick.  Bake  on 
reverse  side  of  a  baking  sheet.  Just  before  placing  in  the 
oven,  sprinkle  with  sugar. 

Snowballs 

6  egg  whites  1  c.  pastry  flour 

^  c.  confectioners*  sugar  5  drops  of  almond  flavoring 

^  t.  cream  of  tartar 

Sift  the  sugar  three  times  and  the  flour  five  times  and 
measure  carefully.  Beat  the  eggs  very  stiff  and  dry  and  beat 
in  the  sugar,  continue  beating  until  thick,  then  fold  in  the 
flour  sifted  with  the  cream  of  tartar  and  add  the  flavoring. 
Drop  large  spoonfuls  in  ungreased  ring  molds  and  bake  in 
slow  oven;  cool  before  taking  from  rings.  Cover  with  a  cooked 
icing  and  roll  on  all  sides  in  shredded  coconut. 

Drop  Cakes 

^  c.  crisco  1  c.  flour 

J^  c.  sugar  2  t.  baking  powder 

J4  c.  milk  1  c.  chopped  nuts 

)4  t.  salt  2  eggs 

Mix  ingredients  as  you  would  for  a  loaf  cake  and  drop  on 
buttered  tins,  using  a  heaping  teaspoonful  for  each  cake. 

Cream  Puffs 

1  c.  hot  water  1  c.  flour 

}4  c.  crisco  4  eggs 

}4  t.  salt 

If  eggs  are  very  large  you  will  not  need  so  many.  Boil 
the  crisco  and  water  together.  Add  the  flour  and  stir  till  the 
mixture  leaves  the  sides  of  the  saucepan.  Add  the  unbeaten 
eggs,  one  at  a  time,  mixing  each  in  well  before  adding  another. 
Drop  by  tablespoonfuls  on  a  buttered  pan  and  bake  in  a 
moderate  oven. 

156 


Cakes — Gingerbreads 

Filling  for  Cream  PuflEs 

2  c.  milk  2  eggs 

8  tb.  flour  K  c-  sugar 

X  t.  salt  1  t.  vanilla 

Scald  the  milk  and  pour  it  slowly  into  the  dry  ingredients 
that  have  been  well  mixed  together,  stirring  constantly. 
Cook  till  smooth.  Add  the  well  beaten  eggs  just  before 
removing  the  mixture  from  the  double  boiler.  Cool  and  add 
flavoring. 

Peanut  Cookies 

}4  c.  butter  2  tb.  milk 

}4  c.  sugar  1  c.  flour 

}^  t.  salt  Ij/^  t.  baking  powder 

1  egg  ^  t.  vanilla 

^  c.  peanuts  pounded  fine 

Cream  butter,  add  sugar  and  well  beaten  egg.  Stir  in 
the  milk  and  vanilla  and  add  this  to  the  dry  ingredients  that 
have  been  well  stirred  together.  Stir  in  the  peanuts  last  of 
all  and  drop  by  spoonfuls  on  a  buttered  pan.  Bake  in  a 
moderate  oven. 

Ammonia  Tea  Cakes 

2  eggs  3  c.  flour 

1  c.  sugar  )4  oz.  carbonate  of  ammonia 

}4  c.  butter  1  t.  vanilla 

Cream  the  butter,  add  the  beaten  eggs  and  stir  in  the 
sugar  and  vanilla.  Dissolve  the  powdered  ammonia  in 
2  tablespoons  of  water  and  add  it  with  the  flour  quickly. 
Roll  out,  cut  into  cakes  and  bake  immediately. 

Nut  Wafers 

1  tb.  crisco  7  tb.  flour 

1  c.  brown  sugar  2  eggs  (whites  only) 

1  c.  ground  nut  meats 

Sift  sugar  and  flour  together,  rub  in  crisco;  add  well 
beaten  whites  and  pinch  of  salt.  Work  in  the  ground  nut 
meats.  Drop  from  spoon  on  well  criscoed  tins.  Bake  in 
hot  oven. 

German  Crisps 

^  c.  crisco  1  lemon,  grated  rind  and  juice 

2  c.  sugar  3  eggs 

Flour  enough  to  knead  a  soft  dough.  Roll  out  very  thin, 
brush  with  white  of  egg,  sprinkle  with  sugar  and  bake  in  hot 
oven. 

157 


Cakes — Gingerbreads 

Wafers  to  Serve  with  Salad 

2  c.  flour  1  t.  salt 

1  t.  cream  tartar  1  tb.  crisco 

Sift  together  the  dry  ingredients,  add  the  crisco,  mixing 
thoroughly.  Then  add  just  enough  sweet  milk  to  make  a 
stiff  dough.  Roll  thin  and  cut  out  any  shape.  Bake  in 
quick  oven. 

Hermits 

1}4  c.  sugar  1  t.  soda 

1  c.  crisco  ^  lb.  chopped  raisins 
2}4  c.  flour  1  lb.  nuts,  chopped  not  too 

3  eggs  fine 

}4  t.  salt  2  t.  cinnamon 

Cream  crisco,  add  sugar  and  cream,  add  eggs  and  beat 
well.  Dissolve  soda  in  1  tablespoonful  of  hot  water,  add  to 
mixture.  Sift  dry  ingredients  together  and  stir  in,  and 
lastly,  add  the  fruit.  Grease  cake  tin  well  with  crisco,  and 
drop  mixture  on  by  teaspoonfuls.     Bake  in  a  moderate  oven. 


Crisco  Brownies 

^3  c.  crisco  2  eggs,  well  beaten 

^  c.  sugar  1  c.  flour 

^  c.  dark  molasses  1  c.  nuts 

Mix  in  the  usual  manner.  Beat  eggs  but  do  not  separate 
them.  Bake  in  small,  fancy-shaped  tins  or  in  a  sheet  and 
cut  in  squares.  These  are  a  cross  between  cake  and  candy 
and  are  very  delightful. 


Brownies 

1  c.  granulated  sugar  }i  t.  salt 
6  tb.  melted  crisco                            ^  c.  flour 

2  eggs  1  c.  English  walnuts,  chopped 
2  squares  chocolate,  melted  In  1  fine 

tb.  boiling  water  and  stirred     1  t.  vanilla 
until  smooth 

Spread  very  thin  in  square  pans  and  bake  in  a  slow  oven 
about  25  minutes.  Cut  in  strips  and  serve  with  ice-cream. 
This  is  a  cross  between  cookies  and  heavy  cake. 

158 


Cakes — Gingerbreads 

Jim  Crows 

Beat  in  a  pan  over  a  slow  fire  1  pound  of  sugar  beaten 
into  4  egg  whites  until  it  thickens.  Remove  from  fire  and 
beat  until  cold;  mix  ^  pound  skinned  and  finely  shaved  or 
crushed  almonds  and  ^  cupful  of  cocoa  in  this  meringue. 
Drop  small  cakes,  resembling  a  rock,  with  a  teaspoon,  on 
well  greased  and  floured  pans.  Let  rest  about  1  hour  and 
bake  in  a  moderate  hot  oven  about  10  or  15  minutes.  As 
soon  as  top  and  bottom  have  a  firm  crust,  they  are  baked. 
Must  be  creamy  inside  after  baking.  Let  cool  and  remove 
from  pans. 

Fruit  Wafers 

J^  c.  butter  4  eggs  (yolks  only) 

1  c.  sugar  2  c.  flour 

}4  c.  molasses  2  t.  baking  powder  (leveled) 

^x.  milk  }4  c.  nut  meats 

}4  c.  wine  or  grape  juce  3  c.  fruit 

3  t.  spice 

Add  flour,  roll  out  thin  and  cut  in  fancy  shapes.  This 
same  made  a  little  thinner  by  adding  grape  juice,  baked  in 
bread  pan,  and  cut,  when  cool,  in  slices,  is  fine  for  lunches. 

Oatmeal  Cookies 

1  c.  sugar  1  t.  soda 

}4  c.  crisco  7  tb.  sour  milk 
1  c.  oatmeal  Nuts  may  be  added  if 

1  c.  coconut  desired 

2  c.  flour  1  c.  raisins,  chopped 

Drop  a  teaspoonful  on  a  buttered  pan. 

Marguerites 

1  c.  sugar  J4  c.  water 

2  eggs  Pinch  cream  tartar 

Boil  until  it  spins  a  thread.  Have  whites  of  2  eggs  beaten 
and  pour  syrup  slowly  over  the  egg,  beating  constantly. 
When  stiff"  spread  on  round  or  shaped  wafers  or  crackers. 
Sprinkle  nuts  or  fruit  on  top  and  place  in  moderate  oven 
until  slightly  browned. 


159 


CHAPTER  XVII 

VEGETABLES— POTATOES 

Boiled  Potatoes 

Wash  the  potatoes,  and  put  them  into  boiling  water. 
Cook  until  they  can  be  pierced  with  a  fork.  Drain  off  water, 
set  in  a  vessel  on  the  back  of  the  stove  to  dry  the  potatoes; 
and,  if  covered  with  skin  on,  cut  a  gash  in  each  potato  as  they 
are  sent  to  the  table. 

Potatoes  with  Cream  Sauce 

Cut  the  boiled  potatoes  into  dice  ^  inch  square.  Put 
over  each  quart  of  potatoes  1  cup  of  white  sauce;  to  this  add 
1/2  teaspoon  more  of  salt  and  ^  teaspoon  of  pepper. 

Scalloped  Potatoes 

Put  the  potatoes  with  cream  sauce  into  a  baking  dish, 
alternating  a  layer  of  crumbs  with  several  spoonfuls  of  po- 
tatoes. Put  crumbs  on  last,  dot  over  with  butter,  bake 
brown. 

Delmonico  Potatoes 

Use  the  above  recipe,  putting  in  cheese  instead  of  crumbs. 

Potatoes  au  Gratin 

Melt  a  tablespoon  of  crisco  in  the  frying  pan,  stir  in  2 
tablespoonfuls  of  flour,  put  in  as  much  or  a  little  more  cheese 
than  crisco;  after  melting  stir  in  1  cup  milk,  cook  until  it 
thickens,  season  with  salt  and  pepper.  Put  in  a  baking  pan 
a  layer  of  cold  boiled  potatoes  and  sauce  alternately,  baking 
20  minutes. 

Potato  Pancakes 

Take  a  quart  of  grated  potatoes,  season  with  salt  and 
pepper,  add  3  eggs,  yi  cup  of  milk,  1  teaspoonful  baking 
powder  and  flour  enough  to  make  it  stiff"  enough  to  fry. 

Potato  and  Cheese  Puff 

Cook  and  mash  at  noon  enough  potatoes  for  both  dinner 
and  supper.  Add  to  1  quart  of  the  potatoes  2  slightly  beaten 
eggs,  salt,  pepper,  celery  salt,  or  paprika,  and  grated  cheese 

160 


Vegetables — Potatoes 

in  quantity  to  suit  taste.  Mash  together  thoroughly  with 
wooden  spoon,  a  little  milk  or  cream  may  be  added.  Butter 
a  baking  dish,  sprinkle  sides  and  bottom  with  bread  crumbs, 
and  fill  dish  with  mixture.  Round  top  in  mound  and  sprinkle 
a  few  bread  crumbs  on  top.     Bake  for  about  20  minutes. 

Stuffed  Potatoes 

Select  long,  smooth  Irish  potatoes,  wash,  rub  with  crisco 
and  bake  until  soft.  Cut  in  halves  and  with  a  spoon  remove 
the  inside  of  potatoes.  Cream  with  butter,  pepper,  salt 
and  little  cream.  Refill  the  potato  cases.  Dip  each  in 
cheese,  replace  in  oven  and  bake  15  minutes.  Serve  on  hot 
napkins. 

Sweet  Potato  Croquettes 

2  c.  mashed  boiled  sweet  1  tb.  crisco 

potatoes  1  t.  salt 

2  tb.  sugar  1  egg,  well  beaten 

Pinch  of  black  pepper 

Add  sugar,  salt,  pepper  and  crisco  to  hot  potatoes  and 
fold  in  well  beaten  eggs.  Add  ^  cupful  raisins  plumped  in 
hot  water;  shape  into  small  croquettes,  dip  in  flour,  then  in 
egg  and  in  crumbs  and  fry  in  deep  crisco  heated  until  a  crumb 
of  bread  turns  a  golden  brown  in  40  seconds.  Drain  on 
absorbent  paper. 

Potato  Nests 

Boil  6  medium-sized  potatoes  and  when  thoroughly 
cooked,  run  through  ricer,  add  ^  teaspoon  melted  butter 
and  yolk  of  1  egg.  Salt  and  pepper  to  taste.  Put  in  pastry 
bag.  Arrange  potatoes  on  chop  dish  and  put  in  oven  to 
brown.     Fill  with  green  peas  when  ready  to  serve. 

Potato  Balls 

Peel  large  potatoes  and  with  a  potato  scoop  make  balls, 
reserving  balance  of  potato  for  soup  or  mashed  potatoes. 
Boil  the  balls  in  water,  to  which  add  1  teaspoonful  salt,  until 
they  are  tender,  then  drain  and  pour  white  sauce  over  them. 

Potatoes  au  Gratin 

Dice  cold  boiled  potatoes  fine,  and  mix  with  a  cup  of 
thick  cream;  season  with  salt  and  pepper  and  let  stand  over 
the  stove  where  it  will  be  merely  warm  till  the  potatoes  have 
absorbed  most  of  the  cream;  then  scatter  sifted  crumbs  over 
the  top,  dot  with  butter  and  brown  in  the  oven. 

161 


Vegetables — Potatoes 

Potato  PufiE 

2  c.  cold  mashed  potatoes  2  eggs 

2  tb.  butter  1  c.  milk 

Beat  potatoes  and  butter  to  a  cream,  add  the  other  in- 
gredients, salting  to  taste.  Beat  all  well  together,  pour  in 
a  buttered  dish  and  bake. 

French  Fried  Potatoes 

Wash  and  pare  small  potatoes.  Cut  lengthwise  into  thin 
sHces,  and  soak  in  cold  water.  Remove  from  water,  dry 
thoroughly,  and  fry  in  deep,  hot  crisco.  Drain  on  paper 
and  sprinkle  with  salt.     Serve  hot. 

For  frying  potatoes,  or  any  article  containing  considerable 
moisture,  the  crisco  should  be  hot  enough  to  turn  a  cube  of 
bread  a  golden  brown  in  20  seconds.  For  frying,  potatoes 
should  always  be  cut  in  thin  slices. 

Potatoes  Brabant 

Prepare  as  for  boiled  potatoes,  using  small  ones  of  a  uni- 
form size,  if  possible.  Cut  in  two,  lengthwise.  Parboil  10 
minutes.  Drain  and  place  in  a  baking  tin.  Bake  until 
soft.  Baste  three  times  during  the  baking  with  melted 
crisco. 

Potatoes  au  Gratin 

Peel  raw  potatoes,  cut  fine.  Place  in  a  baking  dish  a 
layer  of  potatoes,  then  add  grated  cheese,  butter,  salt  and 
cayenne  pepper,  and  so  on  until  dish  is  full.  Then  turn 
milk  over  all,  until  potatoes  are  just  covered.  Bake  in  mod- 
erate oven  J/2  hour. 

Potato  Puffs 

Take  1  cup  cold  mashed  potatoes  and  stir  into  it  ^2  cup 
sifted  flour  and  1  teaspoonful  salt  and  ^  teaspoonful  baking 
powder.  Lastly  add  2  well  beaten  eggs.  Drop  by  spoonfuls 
into  crisco  heated  for  40-second  test,  drain  and  serve  hot. 
Oysters  may  be  enclosed  in  each  pufF. 

Potato  Balls 

Add  to  beaten  yolks  of  2  eggs  2  tablespoonfuls  of  cream, 
2  cupfuls  of  hot  mashed  potatoes,  2  tablespoonfuls  crisco, 
J^  cupful  grated  yellow  cheese,  ^  teaspoon  salt  and  cayenne 

162 


Vegetables — Potatoes 

pepper  and  grated  nutmeg  to  taste.  Mix  well  and  shape 
into  balls  the  size  of  apples;  roll  each  in  bread  crumbs  and 
then  in  egg  which  has  been  beaten  with  milk,  then  in  crumbs 
again;  press  each  side  of  the  apples  to  form  a  slight  indenta- 
tion; drop  in  hot  crisco. 

Creamed  Potatoes 

2  c.  boiled  mashed  potatoes  X  c.  hot  milk 

2  tb.  butter  1  t.  salt 

Dash  of  white  pepper 

Stir  the  butter,  milk,  and  seasonings  into  the  potatoes, 
cream  well  and  serve  hot.  Set  in  the  oven  for  a  few  minutes, 
to  keep  hot. 

New  Potatoes 

2  qts.  potatoes  1}4  t.  salt 

2  tb.  butter  1  pt.  milk 

J/i  t.  pepper 

Wash  the  potatoes  and  rub  off  the  skins.  Cook  them  in 
boiling  water  till  easily  pierced  with  a  fork.  Drain  off  water, 
add  milk  and  seasoning  and  serve  as  soon  as  the  milk  is  hot. 
Cream  sauce  may  be  used  instead  of  butter  and  milk. 

German  Fried  Potatoes 

Parboil  the  potatoes  with  the  skins  on,  cut  up  in  slices 
(not  too  thin);  now  put  in  a  frying  pan  enough  clarified  but- 
ter to  cover  bottom  of  pan;  when  the  butter  has  melted  put 
in  the  potatoes,  saute  well,  then  press  them  in  the  corner  of 
the  pan  so  as  to  form  an  omelet  and  brown  well.  Serve  hot. 
Add  green  and  red  peppers  for  **0'Brien  Potatoes." 

Cottage  or  Homie  Fried  Potatoes 

Potatoes  German  fried  saute,  cottage  or  German  fried 
potatoes  are  prepared  as  follows:  Treat  as  above  for  German 
fried,  slice  them  clear  across,  salt  and  pepper,  dip  in  hot 
butter  to  make  the  body  set,  then  saute,  browning  on  both 
sides.  The  boiled  potatoes  may  be  made  into  an  omelet 
and  nicely  browned. 

Hashed  Browned  Potatoes 

Season  a  little  more  than  a  pint  of  cold  boiled  potatoes 
which  have  been  boiled  in  salted  water  and  chopped  into 
small  dice,  using  1  saltspoon  of  salt  and  ^  teaspoon  black 

163 


Vegetables 

pepper.  Having  stirred  the  seasoning  well  through  the 
potatoes  turn  them  into  an  iron  spider,  in  which  you  have 
melted  but  not  browned  a  rounded  tablespoonful  of  good 
butter;  again  stir  them  constantly  while  the  potatoes  are 
heating  and  until  the  butter  is  evenly  distributed;  add  3  or 
4  tablespoonfuls  of  cream,  again  stir,  then  push  them  back 
on  the  range  to  brown  slowly  without  stirring. 

Corn  on  the  Cob 

Husk  the  corn  and  remove  the  silk.  Cook  from  20  to  30 
minutes  in  boiling  salted  water.  The  corn  baked  in  the 
inner  shuck  for  30  minutes  is  sometimes  served. 

Scalloped  Corn 

Place  a  layer  of  cracker  crumbs  in  the  bottom  of  a  dish, 
then  a  layer  of  corn,  season  with  salt,  pepper  and  butter. 
Add  another  layer  of  crackers,  then  corn  and  seasoning  until 
the  dish  is  filled.  Moisten  with  milk  and  bake  in  a  moderate 
oven. 

Green  Corn  Omelet 

Cut  from  the  cob  enough  young  green  corn  to  make  1 
cupful.  Beat  5  eggs,  yolks  and  whites  together,  until  light. 
Add  to  them  5  tablespoonfuls  milk,  salt  and  pepper  to  taste 
and  the  cut  corn.  Melt  2  tablespoonfuls  butter  in  an  omelet 
pan  and  cook  as  for  an  ordinary  plain  omelet. 

Scalloped  Corn 

2  c.  corn  2  c.  bread  crumbs 

2  c.  milk  J4  c.  crisco 

Grease  a  baking  dish  with  crisco,  put  in  a  layer  of  crumbs, 
corn,  small  dots  crisco,  season  with  pepper  and  salt,  repeat 
and  pour  in  the  milk  in  which  the  egg  is  mixed,  cover  the  top 
with  crumbs  and  bake  in  a  moderate  oven  about  30  minutes. 

Corn  Pudding 

Score  down  each  row  of  grains  on  6  ears  of  corn  and 
press  out  the  pulp  with  a  dull  knife.  Add  to  it  a  tablespoon 
each  of  flour  and  milk,  2  eggs  beaten  until  very  light,  ^2 
teaspoon  salt,  and  a  dash  of  black  pepper.  Bake  in  a  shallow 
pan  in  a  quick  oven  20  minutes.  Cut  into  squares,  and 
serve  with  creamed  beef  or  fricasseed  chicken. 

164 


Vegetables 

Canned  Boiled  String  Beans 

Heat  the  beans  to  the  boihng  point  in  the  liquor  in  which 
they  were  canned,  drain  off  the  liquor,  add  salted  boiling 
water,  and  cook  for  10  minutes,  slowly.  Drain  again,  season 
with  salt  and  pepper,  and  stir  in  a  great  lump  of  butter. 
When  this  is  melted  serve.  Or,  if  preferred,  pour  a  white 
sauce  over  the  beans,  instead  of  butter. 

Tomatoes  and  Corn 

Select  tomatoes  of  medium  size;  cut  out  the  stem  end 
without  peeling,  scoop  out  the  pulp  and  drain.  Take  a  cup 
of  cooked  corn,  mixed  with  2  half-beaten  eggs,  a  tablespoon 
of  butter,  and  a  tablespoon  of  flour  rubbed  to  a  smooth 
paste  with  milk;  season  well  with  salt  and  pepper.  Fill  the 
tomatoes  with  the  corn  and  bake  in  a  moderate  oven  for  20 
minutes. 

Green  Peppers — Tuna  Fish 

To  6  peppers  prepared  for  stuffing,  take  small  can  tuna 
fish,  1  cup  cream  sauce,  ^  cup  bread  crumbs,  %  cup  walnut 
meats.  Mix  fish,  crumbs,  nut  meats  and  white  sauce,  season 
with  salt  and  a  little  chopped  chives.  Fill  peppers,  place  in 
baking  dish,  in  which  have  1  cup  of  water  to  prevent  peppers 
wilting — bake  in  hot  oven  15  minutes. 

Green  Corn,  Scalloped 

Six  large  ears  of  tender  corn,  1  quart  ripe  tomatoes,  ]/2 
pint  mild  onion,  heaping  tablespoon  butter,  1  teaspoon 
sugar,  1  teaspoon  salt,  dust  of  black  pepper,  or  1  large 
green  pepper  shredded  fine.  Peel  tomatoes,  cut  in  thick 
slices,  slice  onions  thin,  blanch  and  drain,  cut  corn  from 
cob,  saving  all  the  milk,  put  a  layer  over  the  bottom  of  an 
earthen  dish,  cover  with  sliced  tomatoes  and  onions,  then 
sprinkle  with  salt  and  sugar  and  dot  with  bits  of  butter  and 
shredded  green  pepper.  Repeat  till  dish  is  full,  putting 
plenty  of  butter  on  top,  pour  over  the  milk  from  the  corn, 
and  bake  in  a  very  hot  oven  for  25  or  30  minutes.  Serve 
hot  or  cold.  If  served  cold,  with  a  sharp  French  dressing 
or  boiled  vinegar  dressing. 

Kentucky  Corn 

Cut  from  the  cob  enough  corn  to  make  3  cups.  Beat 
2  eggs  slightly  and  pour  over  them  a  cup  of  hot  milk,  to 

165 


Vegetables 

which  has  been  added  2  tablespoonfuls  butter.  Add  this 
to  the  corn  together  with  generous  seasoning  of  salt  and 
pepper.  Turn  into  a  baking  dish  and  stand  this  in  hot 
water.  Bake  in  a  moderate  oven  until  set.  If  the  flavor 
of  green  peppers  is  Hked,  2  tablespoonfuls  of  this,  finely 
minced,  may  be  stirred  among  the  corn. 

Corn  Omelet 

Beat  6  eggs  very  soft  and  light,  and  add  salt  and  pepper; 
make  a  pint  of  white  sauce,  and  into  this  stir  the  contents 
of  a  can  of  corn,  first  draining  off  the  liquor.  Season  with 
a  little  sugar,  salt  and  white  pepper.  Turn  the  eggs  into  the 
omelet  pan,  and  when  the  omelet  is  set,  spread  it  with  half 
the  corn  mixture,  fold  it  over,  transfer  to  a  heated  platter, 
and  pour  the  remainder  of  the  corn  and  sauce  about  the 
omelet.     Serve  at  once. 

Corn 

1  qt.  corn  1  t.  salt 

1  c.  milk  2  tb.  butter 

Husk  the  corn  and  remove  the  skin  (a  stiff  whisk  broom 
is  useful  for  this).  With  a  sharp  knife  cut  down  the  center 
of  each  row  of  kernels,  and  scrape  or  grate  the  corn  from  the 
cob.  Cook  the  corn  for  20  minutes;  add  the  milk,  salt  and 
butter.     Serve  as  soon  as  heated  through. 

Baked  Beans  with  Pork 

2  c.  beans  ^  lb.  salt  pork 
1  t.  salt                                                  ^  t.  mustard 

1  tb.  molasses 

Wash  and  soak  the  beans  over  night.  In  the  morning 
drain,  and  put  in  bean  pot  with  the  pork,  either  in  one  piece 
in  the  center,  with  a  little  of  it  projecting  above  the  beans, 
or  put  into  thin  slices  and  mix  with  the  beans.  Add  the 
salt  and  molasses  and  a  cup  of  boiling  water.     Bake  5  hours. 

Baked  Beans 

Pick  over  a  quart  of  small  beans,  and  soak  over  night  in 
warm  water.  Next  morning  parboil  them  until  the  skins 
crack  open,  then  drain  and  pack  in  an  earthen  pot.  When 
the  pot  is  about  ^  full,  place  it  in  a  pound  of  streaked  salt 
pork.     Cover  them  with  beans,  and  over  them  pour  1  dessert 

166 


Vegetables 

spoon  of  molasses,  mixed  with  as  much  vinegar,  a  tablespoon 
of  mustard,  %  teaspoon  pepper,  all  dissolved  in  water  enough 
to  cover  the  beans.  Cover  tightly  and  bake  in  moderate 
oven  5  or  6  hours. 

Baked  Eggplant 

Peel  and  slice  the  vegetable  in  ^-inch  slices.  Place  in 
salted  water,  covered,  and  with  a  weight  on  top  to  keep  the 
slices  submerged.  Soak  1  hour  or  longer,  drain,  rinse  and 
wipe  dry.  Dip  in  beaten  egg,  sprinkled  with  buttered  cracker 
crumbs  and  place  in  a  baking  dish. 

Stewed  Eggplant 

Cook  like  squash.  The  addition  of  tomato  sauce  to  the 
pulp  improves  the  flavor. 

Stewed  Lima  Beans 

Put  a  pint  of  shelled  lima  beans  into  slightly  salted  boil- 
ing water,  with  1  or  2  slices  of  onion.  When  tender,  drain 
and  remove  the  onion;  now  add  2  ounces  of  butter,  enough 
hot  water  or  stock  to  moisten  the  beans,  and  a  little  white 
pepper,  allow  to  simmer  10  or  15  minutes,  and  serve. 

Young  Lima  Beans 

1  qt.  shelled  beans  1  qt.  boiling  water 

2  t.  salt  }4  c.  sweet  milk 

2    tb.  butter 

Put  the  beans  into  hot  water  and  simmer  until  tender, 
which  will  be  from  40  to  60  minutes.  Add  salt,  milk,  and 
butter.     Heat  and  serve. 

Dry  Beans 

1  qt.  beans  3  qts.  water 

1  t.  salt  }^  lb.  bacon 

Soak  the  beans  over  night  in  cold  water.  Wash  the 
bacon  and  put  it  with  the  beans  into  the  required  quantity 
of  water.  Simmer  slowly,  from  2  to  4  hours  until  tender. 
Add  the  salt  a  short  time  before  serving.  Tomato  catsup 
may  be  added  a  short  time  before  serving. 

167 


Vegetables 


String  Beans 


2  qts.  string  beans  4  qts.  water 

}i  lb.  bacon  1  t.  salt 

String  the  beans  by  breaking  the  blossom  end  toward 
the  inside  curve,  and  pulling  the  string  down  to  the  stem  end. 
Break  the  stem  end  and  pull  the  string  down  the  outer  curve. 
Break  the  beans  into  several  pieces  and  put  into  cold  water. 
Wash  the  bacon  and  fry  for  a  few  minutes  in  the  pot  in  which 
you  are  to  cook  the  beans.  Add  the  water  and  when  boiling 
put  in  the  beans.  Cook  about  2  hours  until  tender.  Add 
the  salt,  if  the  meat  does  not  make  the  beans  salty  enough, 
and  serve. 

Leftovers  Dish 

Put  any  cold  meat  you  may  have  through  the  meat  chop- 
per, add  pepper,  salt  and  1  teaspoon  kitchen  bouquet;  add 
to  this  enough  boiling  water  to  make  gravy.  Have  some 
rice  nicely  boiled  in  slightly  salted  water;  put  the  meat  in  a 
deep  dish  (keeping  back  as  much  as  possible  of  the  gravy), 
cover  the  meat  with  the  rice  and  pour  the  gravy  over  it. 

Fried  hominy  or  cornmeal  mush  may  be  used  in  the  same 
way  to  serve  with  meats  or  for  breakfast  with  syrup.  Cook 
^  cupful  in  1  pint  of  boiling  water  until  it  thickens,  then 
place  over  boiling  water  to  finish  cooking  for  about  an  hour, 
adding  salt  and  more  water  if  too  stiff,  also  an  egg  yolk  or 
a  little  butter  (or  add  chopped  nuts  or  grated  cheese).  When 
done,  pour  into  flat  pans,  and  when  cool  cut  in  crescents, 
diamonds  or  strips,  roll  in  egg  and  crumbs  or  corn  flakes  and 
fry  in  deep  crisco. 

Fried  Mush 

Pour  mush  on  a  large  platter  to  cool.  Slice  and  dip  in 
}4  cup  sweet  milk  and  beaten  egg.  Roll  in  cracker  crumbs 
and  fry  in  hot,  deep  crisco. 

Okra 

Test  with  the  thumb  nail.  Unless  the  thumb  nail  cuts 
in  freely  the  pods  are  too  tough.  But  do  not  throw  away 
the  tough  ones.  Shell  the  seed  from  them  and  either  dry  to 
use  in  soup  or  to  cook  alone,  when  they  should  be  served  with 
butter,  vinegar  and  salt.  Cut  stems  off  the  pods,  cook 
vv^hole  those  half-grown  or  under,  but  cut  those  more  mature 
into  ^-inch  slices. 

168 


Vegetables 

Boil  until  tender  in  water  very  slightly  salted.  When  a 
fork  pierces  them  readily  they  are  cooked  enough.  Drain 
them  well,  lay  in  a  deep  pan  or  hot  dish,  dress  with  butter, 
salt,  pepper  and  vinegar  and  set  5  minutes  in  hot  oven. 
This  should  be  served  hot. 

Asparagus 

Wash  and  cut  the  tender  stalks  into  inch-long  pieces; 
put  to  cook  in  just  enough  salted  boiling  water  to  cover. 
When  tender  add  a  cup  of  cream  or  milk,  and,  if  you  use 
milk,  a  good  sized  piece  of  butter,  and  a  little  white  pepper. 
Have  some  slices  of  buttered  toast  in  a  tureen,  pour  the 
asparagus  over  it  and  serve  in  small  dishes,  giving  to  each 
person  a  piece  of  toast,  upon  which  put  the  sliced  asparagus 
with  a  spoonful  or  two  of  the  liquor.  If  preferred,  the  toast 
may  be  omitted,  but  it  is  a  decided  improvement  to  the  dish. 

Baked  Eggplant  en  Creme 

Eggplant,  6  slices;  milk,  3  cups;  butter;  bread  crumbs 
toasted,  ^  cup;  salt,  2  tablespoonfuls. 

Peel  the  eggplant  and  cut  in  slices  about  ^  inch  thick. 
Place  slices  in  a  pan  and  cover  with  toasted  bread  crumbs. 
Pour  over  this  the  milk,  add  the  salt  and  small  pieces  of  butter, 
and  bake.     If  it  becomes  too  dry,  add  a  little  more  milk. 

Baked  Squash 

Five  small  and  1  large  squash,  the  large  squash  about 
the  size  of  a  soup  bowl.  Cut  up  small  squash  and  scoop  out 
center  of  large  squash,  leaving  simply  the  shell,  which  reserve. 
Stew  small  squash  in  water,  small  amount,  seasoning  with 
butter,  pepper  and  salt,  and  when  stewed  almost  dry,  put 
into  the  squash  shell,  sprinkle  top  with  bits  of  butter,  and 
bake  in  oven  for  about  15  minutes. 

Stewed  Squash 

4  squash  IJ^  t.  salt 

2  tb.  butter  }4  t.  pepper 

Peel  the  squash  and  slice  them.  Put  into  a  saucepan 
with  half  enough  boiling  water  to  cover,  and  simmer  30  min- 
utes. When  tender,  add  butter  and  seasoning,  mash  and 
serve. 

The  butter  may  be  melted  in  a  frying  pan  and  the  squash 
browned  in  it. 

12  169 


Vegetables 


French  Cucumbers 


Peel  the  cucumbers  and  cut  lengthwise  in  strips,  simmer 
slowly  till  tender;  drain  and  season  with  salt  and  pepper. 
Make  a  cup  of  rich,  w^hite  sauce  and  lay  the  cucumbers  in 
and  serve  hot. 

Cucumber  Fritters 

Peel  and  grate  4  large  cucumbers.  Press  out  juice.  To 
the  pulp  add  3  well  beaten  eggs,  a  high  seasoning  of  salt  and 
black  pepper,  1  teaspoon  of  melted  butter  and  flour  sufficient 
to  make  a  drop  batter.  Measure  the  amount  of  flour  used 
and  for  each  cup  allow  1  teaspoon  baking  powder,  which  is 
to  be  stirred  in  last.  Drop  by  small  teaspoonfuls  in  a  kettle 
partly  filled  with  hot  fat  and  cook  slowly  until  puffed  up 
and  brown.     These  will  be  found  excellent. 

French  Peas 

Mince  and  fry  in  1  tablespoon  of  crisco,  1  small  onion. 
Rub  smooth  1  tablespoon  of  flour  and  1  cup  of  water,  salt 
and  pepper.  Add  to  1  quart  of  fresh  peas  or  1  can  of  peas 
when  poured  over  the  peas.  Add  a  little  parsley.  Serve  in 
hot  dish  or  use  to  garnish  meats. 

Spanish  Tomatoes 

Peel  or  slice  1  quart  of  tomatoes  or  use  one  3-pound 
can,  removing  seed.  Cut  in  small  pieces  3  bell  peppers. 
Take  4  onions  and  simmer  until  tender,  then  add  tomatoes 
and  pepper  to  the  onions  and  simmer  for  an  hour,  season 
with  salt,  pepper  and  1  teaspoon  of  chili  powder,  adding 
chili  powder  about  ^  hour  before  done.  Then  prepare  2 
cupfuls  of  stale  bread  crumbs;  mix  alternately  in  a  dish 
tomatoes  and  bread  crumbs;  moisten  slightly  with  a  little 
juice  of  tomatoes  and  sprinkle  on  each  layer  chili  powder, 
covering  the  top  with  bread  crumbs,  and  bake  in  hot  oven 
for  10  or  15  minutes. 

Panned  Tomatoes 

Cut  tomatoes  into  halves,  put  them,  skin  side  down,  in 
a  pan;  dust  with  salt  and  pepper  and  bit  of  butter  the  size  of 
a  pea  on  each.  Bake  l4  hour.  Moisten  2  level  tablespoonfuls 
flour,  gradually,  with  1  cup  of  milk;  place  in  pan.  Stir  until 
boiling,  add  ^  teaspoonful  salt,  and  strain  over  the  tomatoes. 

170 


Vegetables 

Mock  Oysters 

Slice  medium-sized  green  tomatoes,  fine.  Make  a  batter 
by  beating  until  light,  yolks  of  2  eggs,  add  )4  cup  of  sweet 
milk;  1  teaspoon  salt,  2  teaspoonfuls  chili  powder  and  enough 
flour  to  make  a  stiff  batter.  Beat  whites  of  eggs  stiflF  and 
add  to  the  batter;  let  stand  ^  hour,  then  beat  again.  Dip 
sliced  tomatoes  one  at  a  time  into  the  batter  and  fry  in  hot 
crisco. 

Stufied  Tomatoes 

Select  firm,  round  tomatoes  of  uniform  size.  Cut  slice 
off  blossom  end  with  knife,  take  out  the  inside  of  8  tomatoes. 
Two  cups  bread  crumbs,  1  onion  minced,  ^  sweet  pepper,  1 
tablespoon  butter,  salt,  pepper,  and  celery  salt,  to  taste. 
Add  this  mixture  to  the  meat  of  the  tomatoes.  Chop  all 
fine  and  fill  the  tomatoes  with  the  mixture,  top  with  the 
slice,  cut  off,  put  in  baking  dish  half  filled  with  water  and 
bake  about  20  minutes  or  until  tender.  Serve  on  lettuce  hearts. 

Tomatoes  and  Mushrooms 

To  a  can  of  tomatoes,  add  a  teaspoon  of  Worcestershire 
sauce,  a  teaspoonful  of  butter  rubbed  with  1  of  flour  and 
}i  teaspoon  of  paprika,  and  as  much  salt.  Simmer  till  it 
is  thick,  then  add  a  httle  onion  juice  or  minced  onion  and  }^ 
can  mushrooms;  cook  10  minutes. 

Scalloped  Tomatoes 

Rub  the  contents  of  a  can  of  tomatoes  through  a  colander. 
Season  with  a  heaping  teaspoon  of  sugar,  and  salt  and  pepper 
to  taste.  Butter  a  pudding  dish  and  put  into  the  bottom 
of  it  a  layer  of  tomatoes,  sprinkle  well  with  bread  crumbs, 
and  scatter  bits  of  butter  over  these.  Put  in  more  tomatoes 
and  more  crumbs  until  the  dish  is  full,  having  the  top  layer 
of  buttered  crumbs.  Set  the  dish  in  the  oven,  cover  for 
)4  hour,  uncover  and  brown. 

Scalloped  Tomatoes 

1  doz.  or  1  can  of  tomatoes  1  c.  crumbs 

2  tb.  butter  1  t.  salt 

2  tb.  sugar 

Scald  the  tomatoes,  peel  and  stew  for  J/2  hour.  Put 
into  a  baking  dish,  stir  in  salt,  sprinkle  over  with  crumbs  and 
sugar,  and  dot  over  with  butter.     Brown  in  the  oven. 

171 


Vegetables 

Tomatoes  Stuffed  with  Macaroni 

Select  tomatoes  of  even  size.  Cut  a  slice  from  the  top 
of  each  and  remove  the  greater  part  of  the  pulp  and  seed. 
Fill  the  cavity  with  cooked  macaroni,  which  has  been  sea- 
soned with  salt,  pepper,  butter  and  grated  cheese.  Bake 
for  20  or  30  minutes,  according  to  the  size  of  the  tomatoes, 
and  serve  in  place  of  meat  as  a  luncheon  or  supper  dish. 

Stuffed  Sweet  Peppers 

Select  8  sweet  peppers  of  good  shape.  Cut  slice  from 
blossom  end  and  take  out  the  seed.  Pour  boiling  water  over 
peppers  and  let  stand  for  several  minutes.  Fill  cases  with 
following  mixture: 

One  cup  steamed  rice,  half  as  much  minced  cold  meat  or 
chicken,  ham  or  beef,  seasoned  with  salt,  pepper,  Worcester- 
shire sauce  and  melted  butter.  Place  in  baking  dish  half 
filled  with  water.  Bake  15  minutes.  Before  baking  rub 
the  shells  over  with  oil  to  prevent  getting  dull. 

French  Dried  Corn 

Cut  tender  corn  lengthwise  through  kernels,  then  scrape 
out,  or  use  1  can  of  corn.  Drain  off  moisture,  put  in  skillet 
2  tablespoonfuls  crisco,  add  corn,  salt  and  pepper,  cover, 
let  cook  until  a  delicate  brown  on  under  side.  Serve  that  way 
or  if  preferred,  turn  and  brown  other  side,  but  leave  center 
soft  cooked. 

Red  Peppers  and  Muslirooms 

Cut  off  the  small  ends  of  peppers  and  take  out  the  seed. 
Mix  2  cups  of  soft  white  bread  crumbs  with  }^  cup  good,  thick 
sweet  cream,  and  a  cup  of  chopped  mushrooms;  season  with 
salt,  stuff  the  peppers  lightly,  and  bake,  basting  with  butter 
as  they  cook.     Serve  plain  or  with  a  sauce. 

Stewed  Mushrooms 

Peel  1  pint  of  button  mushrooms  and  cut  off  the  ends  of 
the  stalks;  put  them  in  a  bowl  of  water,  with  a  little  lemon 
juice,  as  they  are  prepared.  When  all  are  prepared  take 
from  the  water  carefully,  put  them  in  a  stew-pan  with  2  table- 
spoonfuls  butter,  pepper,  salt  and  the  juice  of  }4  lemon; 
cover  closely  and  let  the  mushrooms  stew  gently  25  minutes; 

172 


Vegetables 

thicken  the  gravy  with  a  teaspoon  of  flour  and  sufficient 
milk  or  cream  to  make  the  gravy  of  the  proper  consistence, 
add  a  little  grated  nutmeg,  and  allow  to  simmer  5  minutes. 

Mushrooms  Baked  in  Cream 

Put  rounds  of  toast  on  the  bottom  of  a  deep  dish  and 
spread  with  very  thick  cream;  sprinkle  with  salt,  and  paprika; 
lay  on  them  large,  peeled  mushrooms  and  cover  closely  and 
bake  in  a  hot  oven  for  45  minutes;  remove  from  the  fire,  but 
let  the  dish  remain  covered  for  5  minutes  before  serving. 

Creamed  Cauliflower 

Always  secure  creamy,  white  heads.  Stem  from  stalk 
just  below  head,  wash  thoroughly.  A  good  way  is  to  hold 
head  under  running  water.  Dip  in  warm  water  to  drive  out 
any  insects.  Divide  into  bunches,  steam  in  a  colander  or 
put  in  muslin  bags  and  cook  in  water.  Steaming  is  best 
and  more  convenient.  Cook  slowly  until  tender.  Serve 
in  dish  with  cream  sauce  or  diluted  lemon  juice  and  melted 
butter. 

Stuffed  Green  Pepper  (Fried) 

A  delightful  stuffing  for  green  pepper  is  made  by  grind- 
ing leftover  meat  and  adding  raisins  and  nuts,  such  as  pecans, 
or  English  walnuts. 

The  peppers  should  be  first  scalded  for  a  few  moments, 
then  skinned,  seeded,  stuffed  and  rolled  in  flour.  Then  dip 
in  beaten  eggs  that  have  been  prepared  to  taste;  fry  and 
serve  hot. 

If  preferred  peppers  cooked  in  this  way  may  be  stuffed 
with  cheese  and  crumbs  instead  of  meat  and  if  a  mild,  sharp 
cheese  is  used,  they  make  a  very  appetizing  dish. 

Cauliflower  and  Red  Peppers 

The  ordinary  variety  of  sharp  red  peppers  are  used  in 
this  dish;  after  cutting  them  in  halves,  put  them  in  boiling 
water,  till  the  skin  is  loosened;  rub  this  well  and  wipe  the 
inside  off  well,  to  remove  the  strong  taste.  Fill  with  cooked 
cauliflower  mixed  with  white  sauce  and  dot  with  tiny  bits  of 
cooked  carrots.     Serve  hot,  with  parsley  around  them. 

Green  Peppers 

Green  peppers  may  be  stuffed  with  macaroni  and  white 
sauce,  being  careful  to  remove  all  the  seeds  and  the  connect- 
ing fiber  from  the  pepper. 

173 


Vegetables 

Peppers  Stuffed  with  Sweetbreads,  Etc. 

Select  8  green  peppers  that  will  stand  level;  remove  a 
piece  around  the  stem  with  the  seed.  Pour  boiling  water 
over  the  peppers,  cover  and  let  stand  ^  hour.  Cut  a  par- 
boiled sweetbread  and  peeled  tomato  in  small  pieces,  add 
6  blanched  almonds  cut  in  slices,  1  cup  of  hot  boiled  rice,  1 
teaspoon  grated  onion  and  salt  to  season;  mix  together  and 
use. 

Spinach 

Wash  the  spinach,  shake  well  and  put  into  a  saucepan 
with  the  water.  Watch  carefully  and  turn  over  with  a  fork 
when  the  spinach  wilts.  When  it  is  all  heated  through, 
drain  and  sprinkle  with  salt.  Serve  with  butter  and  garnish 
with  the  rings  of  eggs. 

Spinach 

Chop  very  fine  2  small  onions,  and  let  simmer  in  a  sauce- 
pan with  1  tablespoonful  of  boiled,  chopped  and  mashed 
spinach.  Stir  well  together  and  season  with  salt  and  pepper 
to  taste.  Pile  high  in  a  dish,  and  cover  the  top  with  chopped 
whites  and  yolks  of  2  hard-cooked  eggs. 

Fried  Cucumbers 

Select  cucumbers  which  are  no  longer  very  young.  Peel 
them,  cut  them  lengthwise  into  four  or  six  pieces,  roll  in 
seasoned  flour,  fry  until  brown  in  crisco. 

Parsnips 

Boil  the  parsnips  in  salted  water  for  30  minutes.  Scrape 
and  slice  lengthwise,  and  cook  for  a  few  minutes  in  hot  butter. 
Season  with  salt  and  pepper.  The  slices  of  parsnips  may  be 
put  into  white  sauce. 

Buttered  Parsnips 

Pare  nice,  fresh  parsnips,  slice  thin.  To  each  quart  of 
sliced  parsnips  add  1  tablespoon  of  butter,  1  tablespoon  of 
sugar  and  salt.  Cover  pan  closely  and  bake  in  a  moderate 
oven.     Add  }4  cup  of  water  to  keep  them  from  burning. 

Baked  Cauliflower 

Take  a  head  of  cauliflower  and  let  soak  in  mild  salt  water 
for  at  least  20  minutes.  Boil  whole  until  almost  tender, 
then  place  in  a  baking  dish  and  pour  over  it  a  cream  dressing. 
Add  bread  crumbs  and  bits  of  butter.     Bake  30  minutes. 

174 


Vegetables 


Stuffed  Eggplant 


4  eggplants  1  c.  tomato  sauce 

4  tb.  butter  2  eggs 

1  c.  crumbs  H  t.  pepper 

2  t.  salt 

Wash  the  eggplants,  and  cook  in  boiling  water  for  15 
minutes.  When  cold,  cut  in  half  and  throw  away  the  seed. 
With  a  spoon  remove  the  pulp,  taking  care  not  to  break  the 
skin.  Melt  the  butter  in  the  frying  pan,  add  the  crumbs, 
pulp  and  tomato  sauce.  Cook  5  minutes  and  put  in  the  salt 
and  pepper.  Remove  from  the  fire  and  stir  in  the  beaten 
eggs.     Fill  the  shells  and  bake  in  a  hot  oven  20  minutes. 

Fried  Eggplant 

Peel  the  eggplant  and  cut  in  slices  y^  inch  thick.  Sprinkle 
it  with  salt,  pile  on  a  plate  and  put  a  weight  on  the  top  to 
express  the  juice.  Wipe  dry  after  1  hour,  dip  in  flour,  then  in 
eggs  or  in  crumbs  and  egg  and  fry  in  hot  fat. 

Turnip  Greens 

^2  pk.  greens  ^s  lt>.  bacon 

2  qts.  water  2  t.  salt 

Wash  the  meat  and  put  it  into  the  saucepan  with  the 
water.  Wash  the  greens  and  break  off  the  stems.  When 
the  water  in  the  saucepan  is  boiling  put  in  the  greens,  and 
cook  till  tender — 45  minutes  to  l}4  hours.     Add  salt. 

Mustard,  dandelion  leaves  or  poke  sprouts  make  excellent 
greens. 

Turnips 

2  qts.  turnips  %  lb.  bacon 
1  tb.  sugar  1  t.  salt 

3  qts.  water  J4  t.  pepper 

Peel  and  slice  the  turnips.  Boil  the  meat  in  the  water 
for  y2  hour,  add  the  turnips  and  cook  for  40  minutes  until 
tender.     Drain,  mash  and  season.     Stir  in  the  sugar  and  serve. 

Creamed  Beets 

Drain  the  liquor  from  a  can  of  beets,  and  cut  the  beets 
into  slices  }i  inch  thick.  Make  a  rich,  white  sauce  and  turn 
the  beets  into  this.  Season  with  salt  and  pepper  and  toss 
and  turn  until  very  hot. 

175 


Vegetables 

Beets  with  Vinegar  Sauce 

Turn  the  beets  from  the  can  and  heat  them  in  the  liquor 
in  which  they  were  canned.  Drain  and  put  them  into  a 
vegetable  dish  to  keep  hot.  Melt  in  a  frying  pan  2  table- 
spoonfuls  of  butter  and  stir  into  it  5  tablespoonfuls  vinegar 
and  a  little  pepper  and  salt.  When  boiling  hot,  pour  over 
the  beets,  and  serve. 

Beets  Stuffed  with  Peas 

Select  large  can  beets,  and,  with  a  small  spoon,  scoop 
out  the  insides.  Drain  the  liquor  from  a  can  of  peas,  and 
heat  in  a  little  boiling  water.  Drain,  add  a  spoonful  melted 
butter  and  salt  and  pepper  to  taste,  and  fill  the  hollowed 
beets  with  them.  Set  in  the  oven  for  a  few  minutes,  pour 
over  all  hot,  melted  butter  and  serve. 

Beets 

Wash  the  beets  thoroughly  and  cut  off  the  tops,  leaving 

3   inches  of  the  stem.     Put  into  a  pot  of  boiling  water  to 

cover  and  cook  till  a  fork  will  easily  pierce  the  beets.     Drain 

off  the  water,  let  cold  water  run  over  them,  peel  and  slice. 

Serve  hot  with  butter  and  salt  or  cold  with  salt,  pepper  and 

vinegar. 

Boiled  Cabbage 

1  medium  cabbage  2  t.  salt 

ys  lb.  pork  4  qts.  water 

Wash  the  pork  and  put  it  into  the  water  with  the  salt.  Cut 
the  cabbage  into  quarters,  and  put  it  in  cold  water  until  the 
water  in  the  vessel  boils,  then  put  the  cabbage  into  the  boiling 
water  and  cook  for  20  to  30  minutes,  leaving  the  pot  uncovered. 

If  desired,  the  cabbage  may  be  cooked  without  the  pork, 
pouring  off  the  water  twice  and  renewing  it  with  boiling 
water.     Serve  with  butter  and  salt  or  white  sauce. 

Cold  Slaw 

1  qt.  shredded  cabbage  J4  t.  pepper 
1  egg  yolk  1  t.  butter 

1  t.  sugar  }4  c.  vinegar 

1  t.  salt  }4  t.  mustard 

Keep  the  cabbage  in  cold  water  until  ready  to  serve. 
Heat  the  vinegar  and  when  boiling  pour  it  into  the  other 
ingredients,  stirring  until  smooth.  Heap  the  cabbage  on  a 
dish,  and  pour  the  dressing  over  it  as  soon  as  cold.  Garnish 
with  hard-cooked  eggs. 

176 


Vegetables 


Stuffed  Spanish  Onions 


Peel  6  Spanish  onions,  removing  some  of  the  outer  layer 
if  necessary  in  order  to  make  them  uniform  size;  then  with  a 
sharp  knife  remove  the  center  of  each  onion  and  chop  it 
rather  fine,  together  with  a  green  pepper  from  which  the 
seeds  and  membranes  have  been  removed.  Add  salt  and 
1  tablespoon  of  butter  melted.  Fill  the  onion  shells  with 
this  mixture,  making  a  nicely  rounded  top,  and  sprinkle 
with  paprika.  Bake  in  a  casserole  in  the  oven,  or  cook  in  a 
double-cooker  on  the  top  of  the  range  for  2  hours. 


Baked  Onions 

Peel  about  6  or  8  and  put  in  cold  water,  add  pinch  of  soda, 
bring  to  a  boil,  then  push  back  and  simmer  gently  for  J^  hour. 
Drain  and  put  in  baking  dish,  cover  with  cream  sauce  and 
bake  for  about  15  minutes. 


Stuffed  Onions 

Peel  the  onions,  scoop  out  the  portion  in  the  center, 
parboil  for  5  minutes,  turn  upside  down  to  drain,  fill  with 
stuffing  made  of  equal  parts  of  minced  nuts  or  meat  and  soft 
bread  crumbs  and  the  onion  taken  from  the  center,  chopped 
fine.  Add  salt,  pepper  and  melted  butter.  Fill  onion  heap- 
ing full  and  cover  with  buttered  crumbs.  Put  in  a  pan  with 
1  inch  of  water,  bake  till  tender. 


Onion  Souffle 

Boil  8  onions,  chop  fine,  and  squeeze  dry.  Add  to  1 
pint  of  cream  sauce  and  the  yolks  of  3  eggs.  Season  with 
salt  and  paprika  and  add  the  stiffly  beaten  whites  of  3  eggs. 
Set  dish  with  souffle  in  pan  of  water  and  bake  for  30  minutes 
or  until  firm. 

Boiled  Onions 

1  doz.  onions  2  t.  salt 

2  tb.  butter  1  c.  milk 

Peel  the  onions  under  water.  Cook  till  tender  in  a  large 
vessel  of  water,  changing  the  water  twice.  Drain,  add  butter, 
salt  and  milk.     Heat  and  serve. 

177 


Vegetables 


Green  Peas 


1  qt.  shelled  peas  1  qt.  water 

1  t.  salt  }4  c.  sweet  milk 

2  tb.  butter 

Cook  the  pods  in  the  water,  remove  them  and  put  in  the 
peas.  Cook  till  peas  are  tender  and  the  water  much  reduced. 
Add  milk,  salt  and  butter. 

Macaroni  Milanaise 

Cook  ^2  package  of  macaroni  in  3  quarts  of  salted  boiling 
water  until  tender,  drain  well  and  cover  with  cold  water  for 
10  minutes  or  more.  Cook  1  can  of  tomatoes  with  1  cup 
of  water  for  15  minutes  with  a  bay  leaf,  bit  of  mace,  onion, 
cloves,  parsley,  salt  and  pepper.  Strain  and  thicken  with 
)4  cup  of  butter  and  flour  blended  together,  or  use  a  small 
can  of  tomato  puree.  Drain  macaroni  again,  mix  with 
sauce,  add  1  cupful  chopped  green  peppers  parboiled,  also 
cooked  meat  of  ham,  calves'  liver  and  tongue,  if  for  supper 
or  luncheon,  and  simmer  15  minutes  or  put  in  baking  dish, 
sprinkle  top  with  grated  cheese  and  crackers,  buttered,  and 
bake  until  brown. 

Macaroni  Timbale 

Cook  until  tender  in  boiling  salted  water  pieces  of  mac- 
aroni, putting  in  slowly  and  turning  so  as  not  to  break  it. 
Put  on  a  towel  to  cool.  Butter  a  mold  and  wind  the  macaroni 
around  inside  the  mold,  holding  it  in  place  with  a  filling. 
Large  size  macaroni  can  be  cut  in  pieces  }4  i^ich  long  and  used 
to  line  the  mold.  The  macaroni  can  be  placed  upright 
around  the  sides  of  the  mold  and  the  rings  put  in  the  bottom. 

Macaroni  Timbale 

Line  a  buttered  mold  with  cold  cooked  macaroni.  Stir 
5^  cup  of  bread  crumbs  in  1  cup  hot  milk;  add  3  tablespoon- 
fuls  butter,  1  cup  cold  meat  chopped  fine,  1  tablespoon 
chopped  ham,  and  1  tablespoon  finely  chopped  green  peppers, 
salt  and  onion  juice  to  taste,  2  eggs  well  beaten,  and  turn 
the  mixture  into  the  prepared  mold.  Steam  until  firm  in 
the  center,  about  40  minutes.  Serve  with  tomato  sauce, 
season  with  horse-radish  and  a  dash  of  lemon. 

178 


Vegetables 

Timbale  of  Macaroni  and  Oysters 

Cook  macaroni  in  salted  water,  without  breaking  it,  till 
soft.  Butter  a  covered  mold  or  small  pail  thickly,  and 
beginning  in  the  center  of  the  bottom,  coil  the  macaroni 
around.  As  it  begins  to  rise  in  the  sides  put  in  a  layer  of 
the  oysters,  only  half  cooked,  mixed  with  thick  cream  sauce, 
and  then  add  more  stem  macaroni,  and  so  on  till  the  mold 
is  full.  Put  on  the  cover  and  steam  for  half  an  hour.  Turn 
it  out  on  a  hot  platter  and  surround  with  cheese  balls,  made 
by  adding  butter  and  chopped  parsley  to  grated  American 
cheese  and  molding  into  shape. 

Creamed  Carrots 

Carrots  should  be  scraped  or  pared  as  thin  as  possible. 
Slice  thin  or  cut  in  cubes,  and  cook  in  as  little  water  as  pos- 
sible until  tender.  Do  not  make  the  mistake  of  cooking 
them  too  fast.  When  carrots  are  tender,  add  milk  enough 
to  barely  cover,  bring  to  the  boiling  point  and  thicken  with 
flour.     Add  butter,  and  salt  to  taste. 

Glazed  Carrots  with  Peas 

Select  young,  tender  carrots.  Scrape  and  cut  out  thin 
into  shreds  or  slices.  Cook  in  boiling  water  for  10  minutes, 
then  drain  the  water  away  and  return  the  carrots  to  the 
saucepan,  adding  to  them  a  generous  piece  of  butter.  Con- 
tinue to  cook  them  slowly  until  tender,  then  arrange  them 
as  a  garnish  around  young  peas  and  sprinkle  all  with  finely 
chopped  parsley.  The  water  in  which  the  carrots  were 
cooked  should,  of  course,  be  kept  to  add  to  the  soup  stock. 

Spicy  Carrots 

Scrape  new  carrots,  cut  in  inch  lengths.  For  a  pint,  put 
in  a  saucepan  a  heaping  teaspoon  of  butter  and  teaspoon  of 
salt.  When  hot  turn  in  the  carrots,  shake  well,  cover  and 
cook  very  slowly,  adding  a  heaping  spoonful  of  water  if  they 
are  inclined  to  burn.  When  barely  tender  sprinkle  with 
}4  teaspoon  flour.  Just  before  dishing  add  a  pinch  of  powder- 
ed cloves,  the  grated  rind  of  ^  lemon  and  tablespoon  of 
chopped  parsley. 


179 


CHAPTER  XVIII 

SANDWICHES  AND  RAREBITS 

"Bread  is  the  staff  of  life;  bread  and  butter  is  a  gold-headed  cane.'* 

There  is  a  knack  about  making  really  good,  appetizing 
sandwiches,  just  as  there  is  about  making  anything  else. 
One  of  the  most  important  things  to  be  considered  is  the  bread. 
Any  kind  may  be  used,  depending  on  the  kind  of  filling  put 
in.  For  the  very  best  sandwiches,  however,  it  should  be  at 
least  one  day  old  and  should  be  cut  into  the  very  thinnest 
possible  slices.  Then,  after  the  filling  is  in,  the  crusts  should 
be  trimmed  ofF  and  the  sandwiches  cut,  either  in  strips, 
triangles,  or  halves,  or  in  fancy  cookie  shapes.  Should  the 
sandwiches  not  be  wanted  for  immediate  use,  they  should 
be  wrapped  up  in  a  clean,  dampened  cloth  and  put  in  a  cool 
spot  until  needed. 

A  list  of  the  very  best  known  fillings  would  Include:  (1) 
cold  meats,  such  as  ham,  beef,  roast,  or  lamb  laid  on  the 
bread  in  very  thin  slices,  with  a  leaf  of  lettuce,  or  finely 
chopped  and  worked  with  sufficient  mayonnaise,  cream  or 
butter  to  form  a  smooth  paste;  (2)  cheese;  (3)  jam  or  mar- 
malade; (4)  salad,  as  lettuce  or  water-cress  covered  with  a 
thin  layer  of  mayonnaise.  All  sandwiches  should  be  made 
with  creamed  butter.  To  prepare  it  place  the  butter  in  a 
bowl  and  work  it  with  a  silver  fork  until  it  is  soft  and  creamy. 
Then  drain  off  the  moisture  at  the  bottom  of  the  bowl,  and 
with  a  knife  spread  the  butter  thinly  and  evenly  on  the  bread. 

Salmon  Sandwiches 

Drain  a  can  of  salmon,  remove  the  bones,  and  flake  the 
fish  very  fine.  Dip  a  lettuce  leaf  in  mayonnaise  dressing,  lay 
on  a  thin  slice  of  buttered  bread  from  which  the  crust  has 
been  cut,  put  a  layer  of  the  flaked  salmon  on  this,  cover 
with  another  lettuce  leaf,  and  put  on  the  upper  half  of  the 
sandwich. 

Tomato  Sandwiches 

Drain  whole  or  canned  tomatoes,  and  cut  In  thin  slices. 
Make  a  French  dressing  and  dip  each  slice  into  it,  then  lay 
on  a  lettuce  leaf  between  two  slices  of  Boston  brown  bread. 

180 


Sandwiches  and  Rarebits 

Spinach  Sandwiches 

Drain  the  liquor  from  canned  spinach,  cover  with  boiling 
water,  salting  slightly,  and  boil  for  5  minutes,  after  which 
drain  very  dry,  pressing  out  all  moisture.  When  cold  chop 
the  spinach  as  fine  as  possible,  seasoning  with  a  little  may- 
onnaise and  pickled  cucumber,  minced  into  tiny  bits.  Spread 
between  buttered  bread-slices. 

Spinach  and  Anchovy  Sandwiches 

Drain  canned  spinach  as  above,  squeezing  out  every  drop 
of  juice,  after  boiling  for  5  minutes.  While  hot  heat  in  a 
cup  of  spinach  a  heaping  tablespoonful  of  melted  butter, 
salt  to  taste,  and  a  dash  of  white  pepper.  Rub  in  now  a 
tablespoonful  of  anchovy  paste,  or  an  equal  quantity  of 
chopped  and  boned  anchovies.  If  the  paste  is  used  do  not 
put  the  suggested  salt  into  the  spinach.  When  you  have  a 
smooth  paste,  spread  it  on  the  crustless  slices  of  bread. 

French  Cheese  Sandwiches 

Brown  bread  Cream  cheese 

Jam,  marmalade  or  preserved  ginger 

Slice  the  bread  thinly  and  spread  with  a  layer  of  the 
marmalade  or  jam.  Strawberry  or  peach  flavor  should  be 
used  for  the  best  results.  Spread  a  layer  of  very  fine  cream 
cheese  over  the  jam  and  cover  it  with  another  slice  of  bread. 
Press  and  serve  for  afternoon  tea. 

Vera  Cruz  Club  Sandwiches 

Between  2  slices  of  hot  toast,  spread  a  crisp  lettuce  leaf, 
thin  slices  of  turkey  or  chicken  and  a  thin  slice  of  hot,  crisp 
bacon  that  have  been  sprinkled  with  chili  powder  before 
frying,  and  2  slices  of  dill  pickle.  Then  sprinkle  with  a  few 
drops  of  lemon  juice  or  vinegar.  Add  a  teaspoonful  of  olive 
oil  and  serve  while  hot. 

Chili  Sandwiches 

Slice  bread  thin  and  butter.  Lay  between  the  slices 
crisp  lettuce  leaf  and  sprinkle  well  with  chili  powder  and  a 
few  drops  of  lemon  juice. 

181 


Sandwiches  and  Rarebits 

Ham  and  Chili  Sandwiches 

To  1  pound  of  ham  ground  fine,  add  1  minced  onion  and 
1  tablespoon  of  chili  powder,  mixing  thoroughly,  and  spread 
over  thin  slices  of  bread,  buttered. 

Pepper  Sandwiches 

3  green  sweet  peppers  Small  c.  mayonnaise 

3  hard-boiled  eggs  Thin  slices  buttered  bread 

Run  the  pepper  and  the  eggs  through  the  meat  chopper 
or  chop  them  finely  in  a  chopping  bowl.  Cover  the  chopped 
material  with  sufficient  mayonnaise  to  give  it  the  proper 
consistency  for  spreading.  Trim  the  crusts  from  the  buttered 
bread  and  put  in  a  substantial  layer  for  the  filling. 

Chicken  Sandwiches 

Left  over  roasted  or  Piece  of  butter 

boiled  chicken  Salt  and  pepper 

Cream  to  soften  Buttered  white  bread 

Mince  up  the  chicken  and  put  it  into  a  saucepan  with 
sufficient  cream  (or  gravy,  if  there  is  any  at  hand),  to  soften 
it.  Then  add  a  good-sized  piece  of  butter  and  a  seasoning 
of  pepper  and  salt.  Put  over  the  fire  to  heat,  stirring  the 
mixture  constantly  until  it  resembles  a  paste.  Pour  on  a 
plate  and  when  cool  spread  on  thin  slices  of  bread. 

Cream  of  Chicken  Sandwiches 

}4  c.  white  chicken  meat  1  pt.  whipping  cream 

1  t.  Knox's  gelatin  Seasoning  of  salt 

Buttered  white  bread 

Dissolve  the  gelatin  in  2  tablespoonfuls  of  cold  water. 
Pound  the  chicken  finely  and  add  the  liquid  gelatin  and  salt 
to  taste.  Put  over  the  fire  and  stir  until  it  begins  to  thicken; 
then  remove  from  the  fire  and  add  cream,  previously  whipped, 
a  little  at  a  time.  Stand  away  to  cool,  and  when  very  cold 
spread  on  thinly  cut  and  buttered  bread. 

Jellied  Chicken  Sandwiches 

Chop  the  meat  of  a  cold  chicken  with  1  stalk  of  celery, 
or  put  all  through  a  food  chopper.  Season  with  a  little 
grated  onion  or  minced  parsley.  Soak  1  tablespoonful  Knox's 
granulated   gelatin   in   4    teaspoonfuls   of  water    until    soft, 

182 


Sandwiches  and  Rarebits 

then  add  6  tablespoonfuls  of  sweet  cream  and  heat  over  hot 
water  until  gelatin  is  dissolved.  Add  the  chicken  meat, 
lemon  juice,  salt,  and  paprika  to  taste,  beat  all  together 
thoroughly,  and  put  all  together  in  a  shallow,  oblong  pan, 
wet  in  cold  water.  Set  on  ice  to  chill,  then  cut  in  slices  to 
fit  the  bread  cut  for  sandwiches. 

Cream  Cheese,  Olives  and  Nuts 

Thinly  cut  Boston  brown  Pitted  olives 

bread  Piece  of  butter 

Cream  cheese  Lettuce  leaves 

English  walnuts 

Work  the  cream  cheese  with  sufficient  butter  to  soften 
it.  Chop  the  walnuts  and  olives  finely,  and  when  the  cream 
cheese  has  been  worked  smooth,  add  them  and  work  the 
paste  some  more  until  all  of  the  ingredients  are  well  mixed. 
Then  spread  on  thin  slices  of  buttered  white  bread,  add  a 
leaf  of  lettuce  to  each  sandwich  to  moisten  it  and  press  the 
pieces  of  bread  together. 

Nut  Sandwiches 

English  walnuts  or  almonds  Lettuce  leaves 

Mayonnaise  dressing  Bread  and  butter 

Chop  the  nuts  finely  and  mix  them  with  the  mayonnaise. 
Spread  between  slices  of  bread  and  place  a  lettuce  leaf  be- 
tween the  parts  of  each  sandwich.  Sprinkle  over  with  a  bit 
of  cayenne  pepper.  Variations  may  be  obtained  by  first 
mixing  the  nuts  with  very  finely  chopped  celery,  with  chicken, 
with  olives  or  with  figs.  First  mix  the  ingredients  finely 
and  add  the  nuts;  then  soften  with  sweet  cream  or  may- 
onnaise to  a  paste  that  will  spread  easily  before  putting  it 
on  the  bread.     Season  with  salt  and  pepper  or  paprika. 

Brown  and  White  Sandwiches 

Boston  brown  bread  Chopped  olives 

White  bread  Celery  salt 

Creamed  butter  Red  pepper 

Season  the  butter  with  a  bit  of  celery  salt,  finely  chopped 
red  peppers  and  olives,  work  to  a  paste.  Cut  the  brown  and 
white  bread  into  thin  and  even  slices,  and  trim  off  the  crusts 
until  the  pieces  of  bread  are  of  the  same  size;  then  spread  on 

183 


Sandwiches  and  Rarebits 

butter.  Place  the  slices  alternately,  first  a  white  and  than  a 
brown  slice,  until  you  haave  five  layers.  Press  these  down 
firmly  but  evenly  and  with  a  sharp  knife  cut  down  slices  about 
y2  inch  thick. 

Sweet  Sandwiches 

}4  lb.  chopped  dates  1  tb.  sweet  chocolate 

^  lb.  figs  1  scant  c.  sugar 

1  c.  coconut  1  c.  pecan  nuts 

Rye  bread  or  crackers 

Melt  the  butter  in  a  saucepan  and  add  the  rest  of  the 
ingredients.  Put  the  mixture  over  the  fire  in  a  double  boiler 
and  stir  well.  After  simmering  for  about  10  minutes,  remove 
from  the  fire  and  allow  to  cool  slightly.  Then  beat  to  a 
creamy  consistency  and  spread  on  crackers  or  fresh  rye  bread. 

Fruit  Sandwiches 

Mix  together  3  tablespoonfuls  canned  cherries,  stoned 
and  chopped  fine,  the  same  quantity  of  canned  and  grated 
pineapple,  and  a  tablespoonful  canned  and  minced  apricots. 
Drain  all  the  fruit  dry  from  the  liquor  in  which  they  were 
canned,  and  mix  with  a  teaspoonful  of  very  thick,  clotted 
cream.     Spread  between  crackers  and  serve  at  once. 

Caviar — Lettuce 

On  a  lettuce  leaf  place  a  thick  slice  of  tomato.  Spread 
the  tomato  thickly  with  caviar.  Take  a  hard-boiled  egg, 
grate  white  and  yolk  separately.  Cover  the  tomato  with 
the  yolk,  and  sprinkle  the  white  on  the  lettuce  leaf. 

Cheese  Sandwiches 

Mash  or  grate  American  cheese,  add  salt,  a  few  drops  of 
vinegar  and  paprika,  and  a  speck  of  mustard.  Mix  thor- 
oughly and  spread  between  thin  slices  of  bread. 

Cheese  and  Anchovy  Sandwiches 

To  the  mixture  mentioned  in  the  preceding  recipe,  add 
a  little  anchovy  essence.  Sardines  mashed  or  rubbed  to- 
gether into  a  paste  or  any  other  fish  paste  may  be  used  in 
a  similar  way. 

184 


Sandwiches  and  Rarebits 

Cuban  Sandwiches 

This  sandwich  may  be  described  as  a  club  sandwich 
with  cheese.  It  is  usually  made  large  so  that  it  is  necessary 
to  eat  with  a  knife  or  fork.  It  may  be  made  in  such  pro- 
portions as  to  supply  a  large  amount  of  nourishment. 

Cut  the  crusts  from  the  slices  of  bread.  Between  two 
slices  lay  first  lettuce  with  a  little  salad  dressing  or  salt  on  it, 
then  a  slice  of  soft,  mild  cheese  and  finally  thin  slices  of 
dill  pickles  or  a  little  chopped  pickle. 

Toasted  Cheese  Sandwiches 

Plain  bread  and  butter  sandwiches  with  fairly  thick 
slices  of  cheese  put  between  the  slices  are  frequently  toasted, 
and  at  picnics,  or  at  chafing-dish  suppers,  are  often  browned 
in  a  pan  in  which  bacon  has  just  been  fried. 

Fig  Sandwiches 

\}4  c.  light  brown  sugar  ^  lb.  shredded  coconut 

Scant  tb.  butter  j4  lb.  chopped  figs 

^  c.  water  ^  c.  chopped  walnuts  , 

Whole  wheat  bread 

Boil  the  sugar,  butter  and  water  together  until  they  form 
a  thick  syrup.  Then  remove  from  the  fire  and  add  the 
coconut,  the  figs  and  the  nuts.  Stir  until  creamy  and  then 
pour  into  buttered  dish.  When  cool  spread  between  thin 
slices  of  bread. 

Sardine  Sandwiches 

6  tinned  sardines  French  mustard 

2  hard-boiled  eggs  Sardine  oil 

5  olives  Salt 

Lemon  juice  Buttered  rye  or  white  bread 

Scrape  the  skin  lightly  from  each  fish  and  cut  ofF  the  tail. 
Split  open  and  remove  the  bones.  Chop  the  eggs  and  olives 
fine;  then  add  the  sardines  and  mix  the  whole  well,  adding 
enough  of  the  sardine  oil  to  bind  it.  Flavor  with  lemon 
juice,  salt  and  French  mustard.  Spread  on  thin  slices  of 
bread.  If  desired,  the  eggs  may  be  omitted  and  the  boned 
sardines  alone  be  spread  on  the  bread.  Cover  with  a  leaf 
of  lettuce  and  flavor  with  a  few  drops  of  lemon  juice  before 
the  top  layer  of  the  sandwich  is  put  on. 

13  185 


Sandwiches  and  Rarebits 

Sandwich  Filling 

1  Neufchatel  cheese  1  10-cent  bottle  stuffed  olives 

1  pimento  ^  lb.  English  walnuts 

Chop  the  nuts  and  olives  and  pimentos.  Mash  the 
cheese  and  mix.  Soften  to  spread  easily  with  thick  cream. 
Spread  on  thin  sHces  of  brown  bread,  buttered. 

Lettuce  Sandwiches 

An  entire  leaf  of  lettuce  is  cut  in  ribbons  with  scissors, 
put  between  thin  slices  of  buttered  white  bread  and  seasoned 
with  mayonnaise,  French  dressing  or  salt,  as  preferred. 
Lettuce  should  always  be  crisp  and  only  the  heart  utilized. 

Preserved  Ginger  Sandwiches 

Chop  preserved  ginger  very  fine,  moisten  with  some  of 
the  syrup  or  rich  cream  to  a  consistency  to  spread  and  put 
between  rounds  of  entire  bread  no  larger  than  a  dollar. 

Nut  and  Cheese  Sandwiches 

Mix  with  cheese  chopped  or  pounded  nuts  and  spread  on 
slices  of  rye,  whole  wheat,  graham  or  Boston  brown  bread. 
Almonds,  butternuts,  peanuts  or  English  walnuts  may  be 
used. 

Cream  Cheese  and  Ripe  Olive  Sandwiches 

Stone  and  chop  the  olives  fine,  and  beat  into  a  cream 
cheese,  adding  a  little  cream  to  moisten  and  salt  and  paprika 
to  season.  Green  olives  are  also  used  in  the  same  way. 
Spread  between  slices  of  white  or  brown  bread. 

Raw  Beef  Sandwiches 

Chop  raw  steak  and  onions  very  fine,  season  with  salt  and 
pepper  and  spread  on  brown  bread. 

Honey  Sandwiches 

Cut  fresh  white  bread  into  thin  slices,  then  Into  strips 
of  about  two  fingers'  length  and  width.  Butter  lightly  and 
spread  with  honey,  taking  care  that  it  does  not  run  over  the 
edge. 

Rarebit  Sandwiches 

Make  a  Boston  rarebit  with  cream  and  spread  between 
slices  of  white  bread  and  crackers. 

186 


Sandwiches  and  Rarebits 

Sandwich  Filling 

One  small  onion,  9  olives,  1  green  pepper,  1  chow-chow 
pickle,  1  cup  of  grated  cheese,  bread  and  butter.  Chop  fine 
all  the  ingredients  excepting  the  bread  and  butter.  Then 
add  enough  mustard  dressing  from  the  chow-chow  to  form 
a  paste  when  mixed  with  the  other  things.  Spread  on  thin 
slices  of  buttered  bread. 

Nasturtium  Sandwiches 

Use  three-fourths  blossoms  and  one-fourth  leaves.  Lay 
on  thin  slices  of  buttered  bread,  brown  or  white,  cover  with 
another  slice,  and  cut  into  small,  oblong  form.  Pile  in  log- 
cabin  fashion  on  a  dainty  doily. 

Cheese  Sandwiches 

Season  grated  cream  cheese  with  a  little  salt  and  pepper, 
and  spread  on  thinly  sliced  bread.  Equal  parts  of  grated 
cheese  and  chopped  English  walnut  meats  also  make  a  nice 
filling  for  sandwiches. 

Russian  Sandwiches 

Spread  crackers  with  thin  slices  of  cream  cheese;  cover 
with  chopped  olives,  mixed  with  mayonnaise.  Place  a  cracker 
over  each  and  press  together. 

Nut  Sandwiches 

Mix  equal  parts  of  grated  Swiss  cheese  and  chopped 
English  walnut  meat.  Season  with  salt  and  cayenne.  Spread 
between  thin  slices  of  bread,  slightly  buttered,  and  cut  in 
fancy  shapes. 

Egg  Sandwiches 

Chop  finely  the  whites  of  hard-boiled  eggs;  force  the 
yolks  through  a  strainer  or  potato  ricer.  Mix  yolks  and 
whites,  season  with  salt  and  pepper,  and  moisten  with  may- 
onnaise or  cream  salad  dressing. 

Club  Sandwiches 

For  one  service  spread  4  fresh-toasted,  triangular  pieces 
of  bread  with  mayonnaise  dressing.  Cover  2  of  these  with 
lettuce  hearts;  on  the  lettuce  lay  thin  slices  of  cold,  cooked 

187 


Sandwiches  and  Rarehiie 

chicken  breast,  above  the  chicken  slices  of  crisp,  hot  broiled 
breakfast  bacon,  then  cover  with  the  other  triangles  of  toast, 
spread  with  mayonnaise.  Set  these  on  a  plate;  beside  them 
set  2  heart-leaves  of  lettuce,  each  containing  a  scant  teaspoon- 
ful  of  mayonnaise  dressing. 

Club  House  Sandwiches 

2  thin  rounds  of  white  bread  2  slices  of  crisp  bacon 
1  thin  round  of  graham  or  rye  Horse-radish 

bread  4  small  radishes 

4  large  oysters,  broiled  or  1  slice  of  lemon 

fried  1  small  tomato 
Slices  of  cooked  chicken  Sauce  tartare 

or  turkey  Lettuce 

Dip  the  bread  in  beaten  egg  and  saute  to  a  golden  brown 
in  clarified  butter.  The  oysters  and  bacon  should  be  broiled 
and  hot.  Lay  the  first  slice  of  bread  on  a  plate  over  2  or 
3  lettuce  leaves.  Lay  the  oysters  on  the  bread,  with  a  grat- 
ing of  horse-radish  on  each  oyster,  cover  with  bread;  on  this 
lay  the  chicken  or  turkey,  cut  in  thin  slices;  season  with 
salt  and  pepper;  put  on  the  bacon  and  cover  with  the  third 
slice  of  bread.  On  top  lay  the  slice  of  lemon;  about  this 
dispose  the  pickles  and  radishes.  Serve  the  tomato  on  a 
lettuce  leaf  at  the  side.  Peel  the  tomato,  cut  out  the  hard 
center  and  fill  with  sauce  tartare. 

Society  Sandwiches 

Delicious  for  afternoon  teas,  picnics  and  children's  lunches. 
Chop  fine  1  cup  of  seeded  raisins,  together  with  1  cup  of 
nuts  (preferably  walnuts),  mix  with  whipped  cream  or  the 
white  of  an  egg  beaten,  season  with  salt.  Spread  between 
slices  of  thinly  buttered  bread  cut  very  thin. 

Welsh  Rarebit 

1  tb.  of  butter  }4  lb.  of  cheese,  cut  into  small 

1  t.  of  cornstarch  pieces 

yi  c.  of  milk  }i  t.  each  of  salt  and  mustard 

A  speck  of  cayenne  pepper 

Cook  the  cornstarch  in  the  butter;  then  add  the  milk 
gradually  and  cook  2  minutes;  add  the  cheese  and  stir  until 
it  is  melted.  Season  and  serve  on  crackers  or  bread  toasted 
on  one  side,  the  rarebit  being  poured  over  the  untoasted  side. 
Food  value  is  that  of  about  ^  pound  of  beef.  Calculated 
cost,  13  cents. 

188 


Sandwiches  and  Rarebits 
Tomato  Rarebit 

2  tb.  of  butter  }i  t.  of  soda 

2  tb.  of  flour  1  lb.  of  cheese 

^  c.  of  milk  2  eggs,  slightly  beaten 
^  c.  of  stewed  and  strained  Salt,  mustard,  cayenne 

tomatoes  pepper 

Cook  the  butter  and  the  flour  together,  add  the  milk,  and 
as  soon  as  the  mixture  thickens  add  tomatoes  and  soda. 
Then  add  cheese,  eggs,  and  seasoning.  Serve  on  toasted 
whole  wheat  or  graham  bread. 

Shrimp  Wiggle 

1  c.  canned  peas  2  tb.  flour 

1  small  can  shrimps  1  c.  milk 

1  tb.  butter  ^  t.  salt 

}^  t.  paprika 

Melt  the  butter;  stir  in  the  flour  and  seasoning;  then  add 
the  milk  gradually.  When  it  thickens  empty  into  it  the  peas 
and  shrimps;  cover  and  when  heated  through  serve  in  patty 
cups  or  on  crackers. 

Deviled  Lobster 

2  c.  boiled  lobster  X  t.  salt 

1  t.  curry  powder  ^  t.  chili  sauce 

1  t.  mustard  3  tb.  butter 

Cut  the  lobster  into  small  pieces;  mix  thoroughly  with 
1  tablespoon  of  butter  and  the  seasonings.  Melt  the  rest  of 
the  butter;  cook  the  lobster  in  it  and  serve  on  fresh  lettuce 
leaves. 

Clams  a  la  Creme 

1  pt.  clams  Yolks  of  3  eggs 

2  tb.  butter  }4  c.  cream 
Salt,  pepper  and  nutmeg  Buttered  toast 

1  tb.  chopped  parsley  X  t.  paprika 

Separate  the  hard  from  the  soft  parts  of  the  clams  and 
chop  the  hard  parts  fine.  Melt  the  butter  in  the  chafing- 
dish;  add  a  little  salt,  pepper  and  grated  nutmeg,  then  the 
clams;  bring  all  to  a  boil.  Beat  together  the  eggs  and  the 
cream;  stir  into  the  hot  mixture;  bring  to  a  boil  and  serve 
on  squares  of  buttered  toast.  Sprinkle  the  parsley  lightly 
over  the  top. 

189 


Sandwiches  and  Rarebits 

Cheese  Scramble 

8  eggs  2  tb.  butter 

4  tb.  milk  1  c.  grated  cheese 

Salt  and  pepper 

Beat  the  eggs  thoroughly  and  stir  Into  them  the  milk  and 
seasoning.  Melt  the  butter  In  the  chafing-dish;  pour  in  the 
eggs  and  milk;  then  the  cheese.  Stir  occasionally  until  the 
eggs  are  cooked.     Serve  with  crisp  crackers. 

Macaroni  Rarebit 

Boil  2  ounces  of  macaroni  or  spaghetti  for  ^  hour.  Drain, 
cover  with  cold  water,  and  drain  again.  At  serving  time, 
put  y2  pound  of  grated  cheese  in  a  saucepan  or  chafing-dish, 
add  ^2  teaspoonful  of  salt,  a  tablespoonful  of  tomato  catsup, 
a  teaspoonful  of  Worcestershire  sauce,  and  1  egg,  beaten 
with  2  tablespoonfuls  of  water.  Put  over  the  fire  and  stir 
continuously  until  the  cheese  is  melted  and  smooth.  Add 
the  macaroni  cut  into  inch  lengths;  heat,  and  serve  at  once 
on  toast  or  crackers. 

Welsh  Rarebit 

1}4  tb.  butter  }4  t.  salt 

J^  lb.  grated  cheese  X  t.  paprika 

1  egg  or  2  yolks  }4  c.  milk 

Melt  the  cheese  and  crisco  in  a  double  boiler.  Mix  egg, 
salt,  pepper  and  milk,  and  add  very  slowly  to  the  cheese  as 
it  melts.  Stir  constantly.  Cook  until  mixture  is  creamy 
and  serve  on  cracker  or  toast. 

Mexican  Rarebit 

Use  1  pound  of  rich,  mild  cheese  grated,  1  tablespoon- 
ful of  butter,  1  egg,  }4  cupful  of  stale  beer  or  milk  if  pre- 
ferred, a  pinch  of  salt  and  from  1  to  2  tablespoonfuls  of  chili 
powder.  First,  put  the  butter  in  a  saucepan  and  when 
melted  add  the  chili  powder  and  salt,  stirring  until  thor- 
oughly mixed;  add  the  cheese  and  continue  to  stir  briskly 
until  it  is  thoroughly  melted;  then  slowly  add  the  beer  or 
milk,  stirring  all  the  time,  and  lastly  add  the  egg  and  stir 
until  the  rarebit  begins  to  thicken.  Serve  quickly  on  crack- 
ers or  preferably  on  hot  toast,  being  sure  that  your  platters 
are  hot. 

190 


CHAPTER  XIX 

CAKES 

Cake  baking  is  an  art,  and  may  be  acquired  by  industry 
and  accuracy.  We  divide  cakes  into  two  classes:  sponge 
cakes,  which  have  no  butter  nor  shortening  of  any  kind,  and 
cakes  containing  shortening  sufl&cient  to  make  them  tender. 
In  sponge  cakes,  or  those  lacking  shortening,  the  eggs  and  sugar 
are  thoroughly  beaten  together  and  dry  ingredients  folded  in, 
and  baked  in  a  moderate  oven  from  40  to  60  minutes. 

We  divide  the  making  of  cakes  into  three  divisions,  each 
one  of  which  is  important. 

1.  Having  decided  upon  a  recipe,  the  first  step  is  to 
prepare,  on  the  work  table,  all  ingredients  accurately  measured 
to  insure  against  the  possibility  of  leaving  out  some  important 
factor  of  success.  Sugar  is  sifted  not  only  to  take  out  foreign 
particles,  but  to  insure  even  grain  to  the  cake,  as  it  is  more 
difficult  to  cream  coarse  sugar  than  fine,  granulated  sugar. 
The  coarse  grains  left  in  sifter  may  be  used  for  sweetening 
or  cooking.  Shortening  should  be  creamed  and  measured, 
flour  should  be  sifted  before  being  measured,  replaced  in 
sifter  along  with  the  required  amount  of  baking  powder,  or 
soda  and  cream  of  tartar,  and  salt  and  sifted  several  times, 
using  two  sheets  of  heavy  paper  and  sifting  from  one  to  the 
other,  holding  the  sifter  balanced  twelve  inches  above  the 
paper,  thereby  incorporating  a  larger  amount  of  air  in  the 
flour  than  could  be  gotten  by  sifting  at  closer  range.  Eggs 
should  be  separated  and  whites  be  placed  in  cool,  dry  vessel, 
and  if  not  used  immediately  placed  in  the  refrigerator. 

2.  Shortening  and  sugar  are  thoroughly  creamed  until 
we  have  a  soft,  fluff'y  mass  free  from  grains.  Too  much 
importance  cannot  be  attached  to  this  particular  point,  as 
the  care  with  which  the  sugar  has  been  dissolved  will  be 
reflected  in  the  texture  of  the  cake  after  baking.  One  half 
the  liquid  (and  for  delicate  cakes  I  recommend  water  instead 
of  milk),  should  be  added  before  sifting  in  any  of  the  dry 
ingredients,  care  being  taken,  however,  that  not  enough 
liquid  is  put  in  at  any  one  time  to  cause  a  separation  of  the 
creamy  mass.  Alternate  the  flour  and  the  balance  of  the 
liquid,  until  all  have  been  incorporated  in  the  batter.  Add 
flavoring,  and  best  results  are  gotten  by  using  a  small  quan- 
tity of  the  best  on  the  market  rather  than  a  great  deal  of  the 

191 


Cakes 

cheaper  grade.  Beat  the  whites  of  the  eggs  well  with  a  wire 
whisk,  when  stiff  but  not  dry  fold  in  the  batter,  place  imme- 
diately in  well  floured  aluminum  or  good  block  tin  cake-pans, 
and  bake  at  once. 

3.  The  baking  of  a  cake  is  quite  important.  Layer 
cakes  should  go  into  a  quick  oven  so  that  they  may  rise  and 
set  immediately  before  forming  a  hard  crust  on  the  outside. 
Loaf  cakes  should  be  baked  in  a  very  moderate  oven,  so 
that  they  will  rise  well  before  being  baked,  keeping  the  oven 
heat  steady,  though  slow,  and  opening  the  oven  door  as  little 
as  possible,  lest  the  small  bubbles  formed  by  action  of  the 
baking  powder  break,  and  cause  the  gas  to  escape.  Place 
a  heavy  paper  over  loaf  cake  until  well  risen. 

4.  Cakes  should  be  removed  from  tins  at  once  to  wire 
trivet,  thereby  securing  a  free  circulation  of  the  air  about 
the  cake.  Sponge  cakes  and  cakes  containing  a  large  amount 
of  egg  whites  should  be  inverted  and  allowed  to  shrink  from 
the  pans,  thereby  there  will  be  no  weight  on  the  delicate 
walls  of  the  air  cells  of  these  eggy  batters.  In  baking  cake, 
we  seldom  consider  the  amount  of  nutriment  to  be  given 
thereby,  inasmuch  as  an  individual  will  at  any  one  time 
eat  but  a  small  portion.  This  usually  comes  at  the  end  of 
a  hearty  meal,  served  as  dessert,  or  taken  between  meals. 
Wherever  economy,  therefore,  is  necessary,  I  recommend  its 
observance  in  cake  making,  reserving  liberal  use  of  eggs, 
milk  and  butter  where  they  will  enter  into  their  true  position 
in  the  dietary.  Every  cake  in  this  book  with  the  exception  of 
a  few  fruit  cakes,  is  planned  on  an  economical  basis,  and  has 
been  thoroughly  tested  by  years  of  usage  in  my  own  kitchen. 

Crisco,  I  find,  makes  a  lighter  cake  with  better  texture 
than  butter,  at  less  than  half  the  cost;  however,  more  industry 
is  necessary  in  the  creaming  of  crisco — butter,  containing 
20%  of  moisture  and  casein,  requiring  less  creaming.  The 
difference  in  prices,  however,  will  recommend  crisco  for 
cake  making.  Swansdown  prepared  flour  will  be  found 
economical  in  delicate  white  cakes  and  sponge  cakes.  For 
flavoring,  I  use  and  heartily  recommend  Burnett's  extracts. 

Royal  baking  powder  will  be  found  wholesome  and  reliable. 
Crisco  has  been  used  in  all  cake  recipes,  principally  because 
of  its  uniform  results;  however,  if  it  is  desired  to  use  butter 
instead,  substitute  ^  more  butter  than  quantity  given  here 
of  crisco;  in  the  Emily  white  cake  ^  cup  butter  will  take  the 
place  of  ^2  cup  of  crisco. 

192 


Cakes 
Sponge  Cake 

6  eggs  1  c.  sugar 

1  c.  flour  1  lemon 

Pinch  of  salt 

Beat  the  yolks  of  eggs  until  light,  add  the  sugar  a  little 
at  a  time,  then  the  salt  and  1  tablespoonful  of  the  mixed 
juice  and  grated  rind  of  the  lemon,  then  add  alternately  the 
stiffly  beaten  whites  and  the  flour.  Both  flour  and  sugar 
should  be  sifted  thoroughly  before  using.  Ice  the  cake 
with  white  icing  flavored  with  1  tablespoonful  of  the  lemon 
juice  and  rind. 

Angel  Food  Cake 

10  egg  whites  1>^  c.  sugar 

1  c.  flour  1  t.  vanilla 

1  t.  cream  tartar  1  t.  salt 

Beat  whites  until  foamy,  add  cream  tartar  and  beat  until 
stiff"  and  dry.  Add  cup  of  sugar  and  beat  until  it  will  stand. 
Add  flavoring.  Sift  flour  eight  times,  last  time  sifting  re- 
maining ^2  cup  sugar.  Fold  in  very  lightly  and  put  in  angel 
pans  which  have  been  floured.  Bake  in  a  moderate  oven 
50  minutes.  Invert  and  allow  to  fall  out  of  pan  on  wire 
trivet. 

Angel  Fruit  or  Nut  Cake 

Make  batter  same  as  plain  angel  cake,  put  half  of  the 
batter  in  pan;  cut  candied  or  brandied  cherries  in  two,  drop 
on  top  of  batter  in  pan,  or  if  nuts,  ^  cup  of  nuts,  J/2  cup 
raisins,  ^  cup  grated  coconut,  J/2  cup  angelique,  }4  cup  of 
any  one  of  the  above,  or  if  a  mixture  is  desired,  use  J4  of  any 
two  fruits,  or  fruit  and  nuts.  Then  put  rest  of  the  batter 
on  top,  spread  evenly  with  a  spatula,  then  run  spatula  through 
the  bottom  of  the  pan  and  gently  mix  the  fruit  all  the  way 
around.  Bake  same  as  plain  cake,  let  hang  in  pan  and  pull 
out.   If  brandied  cherries  are  used,  wipe  moisture  out  of  them. 

Chocolate  Angel  Cake 

Use  recipe  for  the  angel  cake,  and  to  the  flour  add  3 
tablespoonfuls  cocoa  and  flavor  with  a  teaspoonful  vanilla. 

Angel  Fig  Cake 

Make  same  as  angel  cake.  Bake  in  2-layer  tin;  let  cool. 
Make  icing  from  the  whites  of  4  eggs,  2  cupfuls  sugar  and  1 
cupful  water,  season  with  vanilla.  Spread  layer  of  icing 
and  then  layer  of  finely  chopped  figs  that  have  been  cooked 
20  minutes  in  slightly  sweetened  water  and   well  drained. 

193 


Cakes 

Spread  another  layer  of  icing,  put  on  top  layer  and  cover  with 
icing  and  lastly  figs.  Soft  figs  need  only  to  be  soaked  in  hot, 
sweetened  water. 

Feather  Cake 

4  eggs  }4  c.  water 
1}4  c.  granulated  sugar                      2}4  c.  flour 

}4  c.  crisco  2  t.  baking  powder 

1  t.  salt  1  t.  Burnett's  vanilla 

Beat  eggs  separately;  sift  flour  once,  then  measure.  Add 
baking  powder  and  salt,  and  sift  three  times.  Cream  crisco 
and  sugar  thoroughly;  beat  yolks  to  a  very  stiff  froth  and 
stir  in;  whip  whites  until  very  stiff  and  add  water. 

Ice  Cream  Cake 

^  c.  crisco  3  c.  flour  if  layer  cake  {J4  c. 

2  c.  sugar  more  if  baked  in  loaf) 
}4  c.  sweet  milk                                       3  t.  baking  powder 

1  c.  water  (hot)  8  egg  whites 

1  t.  salt 

Sift  dry  ingredients  five  times.  Cream  crisco  and  sugar, 
flavor  with  vanilla  and  almond.  Alternate  flour  and  milk, 
and  at  last  hot  water  just  before  eggs. 

Caramel  Layer  Cake 

1  c.  sugar  f  c.  milk 

5  tb.  crisco  2  t.  baking  powder 

2  eggs  2  squares  chocolate 

Flour  to  stiffen 

Filling  for  the  top  and  between  the  layers: 

2  c.  sugar  (brown)  }^  c.  milk 

1  tb.  crisco  1  t.  salt 

Boil  5  minutes  or  longer.  Take  from  the  stove  and  beat 
constantly  until  it  creams.  Flavor  with  vanilla.  On  the 
top  layer,  scatter  whole  walnut  meats. 

Marshmallow  Cake 

2  c.  sugar  1  c.  sweet  milk 
^  c.  crisco                                                8  egg  whites 

3}4  c.  flour  1  t.  vanilla 

1  t.  salt  )4  t.  almond  extract 

3}4  t.  baking  powder 

Cream  crisco,  add  gradually  one-half  the  liquid,  alternate 
with  the  dry  ingredients  which  have  been  sifted  together 
four  times,  bake  in  layers  for  20  minutes  in  an  oven  of  350 
degrees.  Make  filling  of  charlotte  russe  if  to  be  used  at  once, 
otherwise  spread  with  boiled  icing. 

194 


Cakes 


Emily  White  Layer  Cake 


\}4  c.  sugar  3  c.  flour 

j/2  c.  crisco  3  t.  baking  powder 

1  c.  water  1  t.  salt 

4  egg  whites  1  t.  vanilla 

Cream  crisco,  add  sugar  and  cream  together.  Sift  dry 
ingredients  and  add  alternately  with  liquid.  Add  vanilla, 
beat  mixture  thoroughly,  and  lastly  fold  in  the  stiffly  beaten 
whites  of  eggs.  Pour  mixture  into  cake  tins  and  bake  in 
moderate  oven  for  20  minutes.     Flour  the  cake  tins. 

Bride's  Cake 

2  c.  sugar  3  c.  flour 

^  c.  crisco  3  t.  baking  powder 

1  c.  water  1  t.  salt 

8  egg  whites  1  t.  orange  extract 

^\  t.  cream  tartar 

Cream  crisco,  add  sugar  and  cream  together.  Sift  dry 
ingredients  and  add  alternately  with  water.  Add  extract, 
beat  mixture  thoroughly  and  lastly  fold  in  stiffly  beaten 
whites  of  eggs.     Cream  of  tartar  added  to  egg. 

Economy  Golden  Cake 

2  c.  sugar  1  c.  sweet  milk 
1  c.  crisco,  creamed                           10  egg  yolks 

1  t.  orange  extract  4  t.  baking  powder,  sifted 

1  t.  salt  three  times 

4  c.  flour 

Cream  crisco  and  1  cup  of  sugar.  Beat  eggs  and  1  cup 
sugar  and  combine  mixtures.  Add  one-half  of  milk  and 
alternate  dry  ingredients  and  balance  of  milk.  Beat  well. 
Bake  in  layers  in  a  moderate  oven  25  minutes,  or  bake  in 
loaf  in  moderate  oven  45  minutes.  Five  whole  eggs  may 
be  used. 

Butter  less- Milkless-Eggless  Cake 

^  c.  crisco  }4  t.  nutmeg 

2  c.  brown  sugar  ^  t.  powdered  mace 
2  c.  water  2  t.  baking  soda 

1  c.  seeded  raisins  4  c.  flour 

1  t.  salt  1  t.  baking  powder 

2  t.  powdered  cinnamon  ^  c.  chopped  nut  meats 
1  t.  powdered  cloves  3  tb.  water  (warm) 

Put  the  crisco  into  a  saucepan,  add  sugar,  water,  raisins, 
salt  and  spice,  and  boil  for  3   minutes.     Cool  and  add  dry 

195 


Cakes 

ingredients,  soda  dissolved  in  the  warm  water  and  the  nut 
meats.  Mix  and  turn  into  a  floured  cake  tin  and  bake  in 
a  slow  oven  for  1}4  hours.     Bakes  well  in  a  fireless  cooker. 

Lord  Baltimore  Cake 

1)4  c.  sugar  2}4  c.  sifted  flour 

^  c.  crisco  25^  t.  baking  powder 
^  c.  cold  water  }4  t.  salt 

1  t.  vanilla  Yolks  6  eggs  beaten  light 

Cream  crisco,  add  sugar  and  cream  together.  Sift  to- 
gether three  times  the  dry  ingredients  and  add  alternately 
with  water.  Add  vanilla,  beat  mixture  thoroughly  and 
last  fold  in  the  beaten  yolks  of  the  eggs. 

Lunch  Cake 

6  tb.  crisco  2  c.  flour 

1  c.  sugar  2  t.  baking  powder 

1  c.  milk  1  t.  salt 

2  eggs  1  t.  vanilla 

Cream  crisco,  add  sugar  gradually  and  then  the  well 
beaten  eggs.  Sift  the  dry  ingredients,  and  add  to  the  first 
mixture  alternately  with  milk.     Add  flavoring  last. 

One-Egg  Cake 

}4  c.  crisco  1}4  c.  flour 

}4  c.  sugar  2}4  t.  baking  powder 

1  egg  ^  t.  salt 

}4  c.  milk  '  1  t.  vanilla  or  lemon 

Cream  the  crisco  with  the  sugar,  and  add  egg  well  beaten. 
Sift  dry  ingredients,  add  alternately  with  milk  to  the  first 
mixture.  Bake  in  a  shallow  pan  that  has  been  greased  with 
crisco.  Add  flavoring  last.  When  baked,  remove  from  tin, 
allow  to  cool  and  spread  with  frosting. 

Angel  Cake 

Put  1  cupful  milk  into  double  boiler  and  heat  to  boiling 
point.  One  cupful  flour,  1  cupful  granulated  sugar,  3  level 
teaspoonfuls  baking  powder,  pinch  of  salt.  Sift  together 
four  times,  pour  the  cup  of  boiling  milk  into  flour  and  stir 
smooth.  One  tablespoonful  melted  crisco,  beat  the  whites 
of  2  eggs  to  stiff  froth  and  fold  in  carefully.  Do  not  stir  or 
beat  the  cake  after  adding  the  eggs.     Bake  in  moderate  oven. 

196 


Cakes 


Egg-Nog  Cake 


2  c.  sugar  1  c.  sweet  milk 
^  c.  crisco                        ^  4  c.  flour 

6  eggs  (yolks),  beaten  light,  4  t.  baking  powder,  sifted 

1  t.  vanilla  in  flour 

Beat  crisco  in  one-half  of  sugar,  balance  of  sugar  in  eggs, 
combine  alternate  milk  and  dry  ingredients,  fold  in  well- 
beaten  eggs,  whites  last.     Bake  in  layers  or  loaf. 

Irish  Rag  Cake 

3  c.  sugar  1  c.  sweet  milk 
^  c.  crisco:  add  1  t.  salt  and              3  c.  flour 

beat  well  with  2  c.  sugar.  3  t.  baking  powder 

5  eggs:  beat  whites  and  yolks 
separate  and  add  the 
other  c.  sugar  to  yolks, 
beat  well. 

Marble  Cake 

2  c.  sugar  2  tb.  molasses 

1  c.  crisco  2  tb.  melted  chocolate 

3)4  c.  flour  1  t.  powdered  cinnamon 

4  eggs  }4  t.  grated  nutmeg 

1  c.  milk  }4  t.  powdered  allspice 

3  t.  baking  powder  1  t.  salt 

Cream  crisco,  add  sugar,  then  yolks,  sift  flour  and  baking 
powder  together.  Alternate  dry  ingredients  with  milk, 
add  last  stiffly  beaten  whites.  Pour  into  pans,  reserving 
8  spoons.     Add  spices  and  chocolate,  then  drop  in  pan. 

Lemon  Cake 

2  c.  sugar  3  eggs,  beat  well  and  add  the 
}4  c.  crisco  with  }4  t.  salt:  other  cup  of  sugar 

cream  with  one  of  the  1  c.  sweet  milk 

cups  of  sugar  3  c.  flour 

3  t.  baking  powder 

Icing  for  Same 

Cream  2  tablespoonfuls  butter,  then  add  the  yolk  of  1 
egg.  Beat  the  white  and  add  a  little  sugar  pulverized,  then 
beat  with  butter  and  add  yolk.  Add  juice  of  1  lemon,  also 
the  rind  grated  and  add  sugar  to  make  stiff  enough.  It 
takes  almost  a  pound  of  pulverized  sugar. 

197 


Cakes 


Prune  Layer  Cake 


2  c.  sugar  2  t.  baking  powder 
}4  c.  crisco  1  t.  mace 

3  eggs  1  c.  chopped  walnuts 

^  c.  sweet  milk  1  c.  steamed  prunes,  chopped 

Cream  sugar  and  crisco  together,  beat  whites  of  eggs 
separately.  Fill  in  a  layer  of  the  cake  batter,  spread  a  layer 
of  the  chopped  prunes  over  this;  then  a  layer  of  the  nuts; 
then  another  layer  of  the  cake,  and  so  on  until  the  pan  is 
two-thirds  full.     Bake  in  a  steady  but  not  quick  oven. 

Jelly  Roll 


1  c.  sugar 

1  c.  flour 

1  t.  baking  powder 

K  t.  salt 

}4  c.  hot  water 

3  eggs 

Beat  eggs  separately,  and  add  1  cup  sifted  sugar,  flavor 
with  vanilla,  pour  in  }^  cup  hot  water,  1  cup  flour  and  1 
teaspoonful  baking  powder.  Bake  in  large,  thin  layer,  turn 
out  on  damp  towel,  spread  with  jelly  and  roll  quickly;  you 
can  use  fresh  berries  or  jam.  Cut  crosswise.  Can  be  used 
with  sauce. 

Coffee  Layer  Cake 

Dark  Part 

1  c.  dark  brown  sugar  2  c.  flour 

^  c.  cold,  strong  coffee  2  t.  baking  powder 

3  yolks  of  eggs  }4  t.  powdered  cinnamon 

}4  c.  crisco  }4  t.  powdered  cloves 

1  tb.  molasses  }4  t.  grated  nutmeg 

}4  c.  raisins  }^  t.  salt 

White  Part 

}4  c.  crisco  2  c.  flour 

1  c.  granulated  sugar  2  t.  baking  powder 

3  whites  of  eggs  1  t.  vanilla  extract 

^  c.  milk  y^  t.  salt 

For  dark  part:  Cream  crisco  and  sugar,  add  yolks  well 
beaten,  coffee,  molasses,  flour,  salt,  baking  powder,  spices 
and  raisins.  Mix  and  divide  into  two  criscoed  and  floured 
layer  tins  and  bake  in  moderately  hot  oven  20  minutes. 

For  white  part:  Cream  crisco  and  sugar,  add  milk, 
vanilla,  flour,  salt,  baking  powder,  then  fold  in  stiffly  beaten 
whites  of  eggs.  Bake  in  two  layers.  Put  layers  together 
with  marshmallow  icing. 

198 


Cakes 

Pound  Cake 

2  c.  sugar  10  eggs 
)4  c.  crisco  4  c.  flour 

3  t.  baking  powder  2  t.  salt 

}4  t.  powdered  mace  3  tb.  brandy 

Cream  crisco  and  sugar  thoroughly  together,  add  yolks 
well  beaten,  fold  in  whites  of  eggs  beaten  to  a  stiff  froth,  add 
brandy,  flour,  salt  and  mace,  and  mix  lightly  and  quickly. 
Turn  into  a  papered  cake-pan  and  bake  in  a  slow  oven  for 
1  hour  and  20  minutes. 

Orange  Cake 

5  tb.  crisco  Ij^  c.  flour 

^  c.  sugar  }4  t.  salt 

}4  c.  milk  3  t.  baking  powder 

4  egg  yolks  }4  t.  orange 

Cream  crisco  and  sugar.  Beat  the  egg  yolks  until  very 
light  and  add  the  creamed  mixture.  Sift  the  dry  ingredients 
and  add  to  the  above  mixture,  alternating  with  milk.  Bake 
in  a  moderate  oven. 

Devil's  Food 

^  c.  crisco  J/2  c.  raisins 

1  t.  salt  2^  c.  flour 

2  eggs  2  c.  brown  sugar 

2  oz.  chocolate  2  tb.  buttermilk,  in  which  is 

1  c.  boiling  water  dissolved  1  t.  soda 

}4  c.  nuts 

Cream  crisco,  add  sugar  gradually  and  cream  together. 
Dissolve  chocolate  in  boiling  water.  Add  this  and  flour, 
sifted  with  salt,  alternately,  then  add  eggs  well  beaten,  stir 
in  nuts  and  raisins,  adding  milk  with  soda  last. 

Icing 

One-half  cupful  chocolate,  little  boiling  water,  vanilla  and 
enough  sugar  to  spread.     (No  cooking.) 

Chocolate  Cake 

Two  cups  sugar,  ^2  cup  crisco,  work  to  cream,  3  eggs,  ^ 
cup  of  sour  milk  with  1  level  teaspoonful  soda  in  milk,  2 
squares  of  melted  chocolate  with  1  teaspoon  of  vanilla,  2  cups 
flour,  and  last  ^  cup  boiling  water. 

199 


Cakes 


Cocoa  Cake 


2  c.  sugar  2^  c.  flour 

3  whole  eggs  3  t.  baking  powder 
}4  c.  crisco  }4  t.  salt 

}4  c.  milk  3  tb.  cocoa 

Cream  crisco  and  sugar,  then  yolk  of  eggs.  Sift  dry 
ingredients,  flour,  cocoa,  baking  powder  and  salt  three  times. 
Alternate  milk  and  dry  ingredients.  Add  vanilla  and  lastly 
fold  in  whites  of  eggs. 

Filling 

1  lb.  XXXX  sugar  3  tb.  sweet  cream 

4  tb.  melted  butter  1  tb.  vanilla 

Beat  well  and  when  creamy  spread  between  layers  and 
on  top  and  sides. 

L'Africaine 

Three  eggs  and  1  cup  sugar  beaten  well  together,  stir  in 
slowly  1^  cupfuls  flour  with  2  teaspoonfuls  baking  powder 
and  3  tablespoonfuls  milk,  bake  in  4  layer  tins,  using  2  layers 
for  each  cake.  After  baking,  these  cakes  should  be  prepared 
in  deep  pie-plates. 

Cream  for  filling:  Two  cups  milk  scalded  with  1  cupful 
sugar,  2  tablespoonfuls  cornstarch,  dissolve  in  }4  cupful  milk 
and  1  egg  well  beaten,  butter  half  size  of  an  egg,  when  cold 
flavor  with  vanilla.  Chocolate  for  icing:  ys  pound  of  choco- 
late, 1  cupful  sugar,  }4  cupful  hot  water.  Boil  mixture  for 
4  or  5  minutes  and  pour  on  top  of  cakes  while  hot.  This  is 
served  as  a  dessert,  not  a  cake,  and  cut  in  pie-shape  pieces. 

Chocolate  Marshmallow  Cake 

1  square  chocolate  ^  c.  milk 

j/2  lb.  marshmallows  1  t.  baking  powder 

}4  c.  crisco  }4  t.  vanilla  extract 

1  egg  ^  c.  sugar 

1  c.  flour 

Cream  the  crisco  and  sugar  together,  then  add  the  egg 
well  beaten,  the  milk,  flour,  baking  powder,  vanilla  and 
melted  chocolate.  Pour  into  a  buttered  round  cake  tin  and 
bake  in  a  moderate  oven  for  ^  hour.  After  the  cake  has 
been  out  of  the  oven  for  10  minutes,  split  it  and  spread  the 
lower  part  with  a  few  marshmallows  cut  in  small  pieces. 
Lay  on  the  upper  part  and  set  the  cake  in  the  oven  until  the 
marshmallows  are  melted.  Sprinkle  with  powdered  sugar 
over  the  top. 

200 


Cakes 


Sunshine  Cake 


Whites  of  8  eggs  1  c.  flour  sifted  4  times 

Yolks  of  6  eggs  1  t.  cream  of  tartar 

1  c,  sifted  sugar  Vanilla 

Beat  yolks  well  with  part  of  sugar,  add  pinch  of  salt  to 
whites  and  beat  about  half;  then  add  cream  of  tartar  and 
vanilla  and  beat  very,  very  stiff.  Add  sugar,  then  beaten 
yolks,  then  fold  in  flour  gently.  Bake  in  a  slow  oven  for 
50  minutes. 

Chocolate  Cake 

^  c.  creamed  crisco  2  c.  sifted  sugar 

3  eggs,  beaten  separately  1  c.  milk 

2  t.  baking  powder  1  t.  vanilla 

2  oz.  chocolate  2}4  c.  flour  (sifted) 

Cream  shortening  and  sugar,  beat  and  add  yolks  of  eggs. 
Sift  dry  ingredients,  alternate  milk  and  dry  ingredients  and 
then  melted  chocolate  and  vanilla  extract.  Fold  in  the  well 
beaten  whites  of  eggs  last  and  bake  in  moderate  oven  in  stem 
loaf  pan  for  45  minutes. 

Loaf  Cake 

Cream  J4  cupful  crisco  and  add  gradually,  while  beating 
constantly,  ^  cupful  sugar.  Beat  the  yolks  of  2  eggs  until 
thick  and  lemon  color,  and  add  gradually,  while  beating  con- 
stantly, ^2  cupful  sugar.  Combine  mixtures  and  add  }4 
cupful  milk  alternately  with  1^  cupfuls  flour  mixed  and 
sifted  with  2^  teaspoonfuls  baking  powder;  then  add  whites 
of  2  eggs,  beaten  until  stiff,  2  squares  of  chocolate,  melted, 
and  J^  teaspoonful  vanilla.  Turn  into  a  buttered  and  floured 
shallow  cake-pan,  and  bake  in  a  moderate  oven  40  minutes. 
Remove  from  the  pan,  cover  with  frosting,  and  when  frosting 
is  set,  pour  over,  a  little  at  a  time,  1^  squares  melted  choco- 
late, and  spread  evenly,  using  the  back  of  a  spoon. 

Pound  Cake 

Cream  1  cupful  crisco,  1^  cupfuls  sugar,  5  eggs,  2  cupfuls 
flour,  2  tablespoonfuls  sherry  wine  until  creamy,  using  the 
hand,  and  add  gradually,  while  beating  constantly,  1^ 
cupfuls  of  granulated  sugar;  then  add  5  eggs,  one  at  a  time, 
beating  vigorously.  When  the  mixture  is  creamy  add  2 
cupfuls  flour  and  turn  at  once  into  a  floured  tin.  Bake  in 
a  slow  oven  1  hour. 

14  201 


Cakes 


Variety  Cake 


l>^  c.  sugar  2  c.  flour 

^  c.  crisco  2  t.  baking  powder 

1  c.  milk  Vanilla  or  almond  flavoring 
J/2  t.  cinnamon                                       }4  t.  cloves 

}4  t.  nutmeg  }4  c  raisins  (chopped) 

3  eggs 

Bake  in  three  layers,  fill  tw^o  layer  pans  with  first,  and  the 
remaining  layer  with  spiced  mixture.  When  baked  put 
spiced  layer  in  center  and  ice  with  boiled  icing  to  which  have 
been  added  chopped  raisins  and  almond  flavoring.  Makes 
very  unique  and  pretty  cake  when  cut. 

Potato  Devil's  Food 

2  c.  white  sugar  4  eggs  (well  beaten) 
^  c.  creamed  crisco  5  t.  melted  chocolate 

1  c.  hot  mashed  potatoes  1  t.  ground  cinnamon 

1  c.  chopped  walnuts  1  t.  cloves  and  nutmeg 
}4  c.  sweet  milk  2  t.  baking  powder 

2  c.  flour  1  t.  salt 

Mix  chocolate  with  hot  potatoes  and  add  to  creamed 
crisco,  sugar  and  eggs,  alternate  milk  and  dry  ingredients, 
add  beaten  whites  last.  Bake  in  layers  and  use  marshmallow 
icing  and  fruit  and  nuts. 

Apple  Sauce  Cake 

1}4  c.  sweetened  apple  sauce,  ^  t.  cinnamon  (level) 

made  thick  J4  t.  nutmeg 

1  c.  sugar  1  c.  raisins 

1  c.  crisco  2  t.  baking  powder 

}4  t.  salt  2  c.  flour 

2  eggs 

Bake  in  loaf  in  moderate  oven  ^4  hour  or  40  minutes. 
White  Fruit  Cake 

1  c.  crisco  1  t.  salt 

3  c.  flour  2  c.  sugar 

3  t   baking  powder  8  eggs  (whites) 

1  c.  sweet  milk 

Make  as  for  cream  cake,  reserving  whites  before  adding: 

}i  lb.  citron  1  lb.  white  raisins 

}4  lb.  cherries  (crystallized)  1  c.  coconut 

^  lb.  pineapple  1  t.  lemon  extract 

}4  lb.  orange  and  lemon  1  t.  orange  extract 

Add  lastly  beaten  whites  and  bake  about  2  hours. 

202 


Cakes 


Fruit  Cake  (Dark) 


l}^  lb.  flour 
l}4  lb.  sugar 

1  lb.  crisco 
12  eggs 

2}4  lb.  raisins 

2  lb.  currants 


}4  lb.  orange  and  lemon  peel 
1  glass  grape  jelly 
1  c.  brandy 
1  tb.  cinnamon 
1  t.  cloves 
1  t,  allspice 

^  t.  mace 

}i  lb.  chocolate 
1  lb.  almonds  (shelled  and  cut) 
1  lb.  pecans 

Sift  all  dry  ingredients.     Let  the  fruit  stand  all  night  in 

wine  and   brandy.     Bake  in  very   slow  oven  5  hours.     Put 

in  tin  box  with  2  mellow  apples  and  occasionally  rub  over 

with  brandy.  _ 

Turkish  Delight 


^  lb.  citron 
1  lb.  cherries 
1  lb.  pineapple 


2  c.  sugar 
^  c.  crisco 

3  eggs 

1  c.  jam 
^  c.  buttermilk 
1  t.  soda 


3  c.  flour 

1  t.  cinnamon 
}4  t.  nutmeg 

1  doz.  dates  cut  fine 
^  c.  nut  meats 

1  t.  salt 


Cream  crisco  and  1  cup  sugar  together;  cream  yolks  of 
eggs  and  1  cup  sugar  together,  and  combine  mixtures,  to 
which  add  the  jam.  Sift  the  dry  ingredients  together  and 
alternate  with  buttermilk,  adding  beaten  whites  of  eggs  last. 
Bake  in  layers  and  use  mocha  filling. 

Mikado  Cake  (Japanese  Fruit  Cake) 


2  c.  sugar  (sifted) 

1  c.  crisco 

8  whole  eggs 

4  c.  flour 

4  t.  baking  powder 

1  t.  salt 

1  t.  cinnamon 

1  t.  mace 

1  t.  nutmeg 

1  t.  allspice 

1  lb.  chopped  nuts 


}4  c.  rich  cream 
^  c.  Tokay  wine 
}4  c.  apricot  cordial 
1  c.  strawberry  preserves 
1  lb.  crystallized  ginger 
}4  lb.  crystallized  cherries 
}4  lb.  crystallized  pineapple 
X  lb.  crystallized  apricots 
X  lb.  crystallized  angelique 
X  lb.  crystallized  limes 
)4  lb.  crystallized  kumquats 


1  t.  each  orange,  vanilla,  almond,   pistachio,  redcherd  extracts 

Sift  dry  ingredients,  cream  crisco  and  sugar,  add  yolks, 
add  preserves.  Chop  fruits  and  pour  wine  and  cordial  over 
night  before;  alternate  dry  ingredients  and  fruit,  last  nuts, 
fold  in  beaten  whites.  Start  in  hot  oven  and  when  the  cake 
is  set  so  fruit  will  not  sink  to  bottom,  reduce  heat,  bake  from 
1^  to  2  hours.  Spread  with  golden  icing  flavored  with 
wine  and  put  on  top  marshmallow  icing. 

203 


Cakes 

Lady-Fingers 

Four  tablespoonfuls  powdered  sugar,  4  eggs,  3  tablespoon- 
fuls  of  flour  and  a  little  grated  lemon  peel.  Stir  the  sugar 
and  yolks  of  eggs  thoroughly  together;  add  the  flour  and 
rind  of  }4  lemon  grated  fine,  being  careful  not  to  grate  through 
into  the  white,  bitter  part;  lastly  add  the  whites  of  the  eggs 
beaten  stiflF.  Bake  in  lady-finger  tins  lined  with  buttered 
paper.  Sprinkle  with  a  little  powdered  sugar  daintily  before 
putting  into  the  oven,  which  should  not  be  too  hot,  for  the 
lady-fingers  should  be  of  a  delicate  brown.  In  the  absence 
of  tins,  sheets  of  large  paper  may  be  put  in  a  large  tin  and 
the  dough  given  the  required  shape  by  squeezing  it  through 
a  paper  funnel. 

Coconut  Layer  Cake 


1  c.  sugar 
3  c.  flour 

^  c.  crisco 
1  c.  milk 

1  t.  salt 

2  t.  vanilla  extract 

4  eggs 

3  t.  baking  powder 

For  Filling 

1  t.  crisco 

1  t.  Burnett's  vanilla  extract 

1  c.  sugar 

1  c.  chopped  coconut 

1  c.  water 

1  white  of  egg 

Pinch  cream  tartar 

X  t.  salt 

For  cake:  Cream  crisco  and  sugar  together,  sift  the  flour, 
baking  powder,  salt  and  add  alternately  with  the  beaten 
yolks  of  eggs  and  milk.  Beat  thoroughly,  then  add  stifl[ly 
beaten  whites  of  eggs  and  flavor  and  mix  gently.  Grease 
layer  tins  with  crisco,  then  flour  them  and  divide  mixture 
into  two  portions.     Bake  in  a  moderate  oven  20  minutes. 

For  filling:  Boil  water  and  sugar  together,  add  crisco  and 
cream  of  tartar,  and  boil  until  it  forms  a  soft  ball  when  tried 
in  cold  water.  Beat  white  of  egg  stiff",  add  salt,  then  pour 
in  syrup  gradually,  add  vanilla  and  beat  until  thick  and  cool. 
Spread  on  cake  and  sprinkle  over  with  coconut. 

California  Ginger  Cake 

J/2  c.  sugar  }4  t.  salt 

}4  c.  crisco  1  egg 

1  c.  marmalade  2  c.  flour 

2  t.  baking  powder  }4  t.  powdered  ginger 

Sift  salt,  flour  and  baking  powder  into  basin,  rub  in  crisco 
with   finger  tips,   add   ginger   and   egg  well   beaten.     Knead 

204 


Cakes 

lightly  to  smooth  paste  and  divide  into  two  pieces.  Roll 
out  pieces  and  line  pie-plate  with  one  of  them.  Spread  over 
with  marmalade,  cover  with  remaining  piece  of  paste,  pinch 
neatly  around  the  edges  and  bake  in  a  moderate  oven  }4  hour. 
Cut  like  pie  and  serve  hot. 

Apple  Sauce  Cake 

Two  cupfuls  apple  sauce  (sweetened  and  cold),  1  cupful 
sugar  and  }4  cupful  crisco  creamed  together,  1^  cupfuls 
raisins,  2}^  cupfuls  flour,  1  teaspoonful  each  of  cinnamon 
and  cloves,  ^  teaspoonful  salt,  2  teaspoonfuls  soda  dissolved 
in  2  tablespoonfuls  lukewarm  water.  Bake  in  angel-cake 
tins  in  a  moderate  oven. 

Chocolate  Cake 

Dissolve  4  tablespoonfuls  chocolate  in  5  tablespoonfuls 
boiling  water;  add  to  the  hot  chocolate  the  yolks  of  4  eggs 
one  at  a  time;  let  stand.  Take  J/2  cupful  crisco,  cream  with 
13^  cupfuls  sugar,  add  to  the  above,  beat  all  well  together. 
Sift  1^  cupfuls  flour,  2  teaspoonfuls  baking  powder  several 
times,  J/2  cupful  milk,  vanilla,  beaten  whites. 

Filling:  1  cupful  sugar,  beaten  white  1  egg,  add  1  large 
grated  apple,  grated  rind  and  juice  of  1  orange,  little  lemon. 
Boil  until  thick. 

Spice  Cake 

J4  lb.  butter,  or  3  squares  chocolate 

^  c.  crisco  1  t.  cloves,  allspice,  cinnamon 

2  c.  sugar  2  t.  baking  powder 
4  egg  yolks  Vanilla 

1  c.  milk  Beaten  whites 

}i  c.  brandy  Little  citron 

Make  a  large  and  small  cake. 

Marshmallow  Cake 

^  c.  crisco  1>^  c.  sugar 

6  eggs  ^  c.  water 

X  c.  sherry  1  t.  almond  extract 

3  t.  baking  powder  2^  c.  flour 

Cream  crisco  and  sugar,  beat  yolks  of  4  eggs,  add  crisco 
and  sugar,  next  add  water  and  alternate  dry  ingredients, 
now  almond  extract  and  whites  last. 

20s 


Cakes 


Lady  Baltimore  Cake 


J4  c.  crlsco  3  t.  baking  powder 

^  c.  granulated  sugar  (sifted)  5  eggs  (whites) 

1  c.  water  ^  t.  almond  extract 

3  c.  flour  ^  t.  vanilla 

Cream  the  crisco  and  sugar;  add  one-third  of  the  water 
with  1  cup  of  the  flour;  beat  thoroughly  and  add  second  cup 
of  flour;  continue  beating;  into  the  last  cup  of  flour  sift  the 
baking  powder  and  add  as  the  other,  then  the  rest  of  the 
water;  flavor  and  then  cut  and  fold  in  the  stifldy  beaten 
whites  very  carefully. 

For  the  Filling 

1  c.  sugar  Pinch  cream  tartar 

J^  c.  boiling  water  }4  c.  chopped  candied  cherries 

2  whites  of  eggs  ^  c.  chopped  candied  pineapple 

1  t.  vanilla  extract 

For  filling:  Put  sugar  and  water  into  saucepan,  stir  till 
boiling,  add  cream  of  tartar,  then  boil  until  it  forms  a  soft 
ball  when  tried  in  cold  water,  or  240  degrees  F.;  pour  on  to 
the  stiffly  beaten  whites  of  eggs,  pouring  in  a  steady  stream 
and  very  slowly,  adding  while  beating  vanilla,  cherries  and 
pineapple,  beat  till  thick  and  divide  between  and  on  top  of 
cake. 

Sufficient  for  one  large  layer  cake. 

Fruit  Cake 

1  lb.  browned  flour  6  tb.  chocolate 

4  t.  baking  powder  }4  c.  rosewater 
^  lb.  crisco                                            ^  c.  cordial 

1  lb.  sugar  (brown)  I  c.  brandy 

2  lb.  raisins  1  c.  jelly 

1  lb.  citron  1  t.  cinnamon 

1  lb.  cherries  1  t.  cloves 

1  lb.  pineapple  1  t.  allspice 

1  lb.  almonds  1  t.  nutmeg 

1  lb.  pecans  10  eggs 

1  t.  salt 

Sift  flour,  baking  powder,  spices,  salt,  several  times.  Cut 
fruit  and  pour  brandy,  cordial  and  melted  jelly  over.  Cut  nuts 
in  slices  and  pour  rosewater  over.  Cream  together  crisco  and 
sugar,  add  to  them  egg  yolks  beaten  very  light,  then  the 
cordial  and  jelly.    Put  in  next  6  teaspoonfuls  melted  chocolate, 

206 


Cakes 

next  the  whites  of  eggs  beaten  stiff  and  part  of  the  flour  and 
spices  and  add  to  the  mixture.  Put  in  nuts  last  of  all.  If 
nuts  are  left  out  put  in  a  third  more  fruit.  Bake  5  hours, 
keeping  a  vessel  of  water  in  the  oven  until  almost  done. 

Cream  Pufifs 


1  c.  boiling  water 

X  t-  salt 

}4  c.  crisco 

1  c.  flour 

3  eggs 

Mix  crisco  and  water,  and  bring  to  a  boil,  then  stir  in 
flour.  Remove  from  fire  and  allow  to  cool.  Stir  in  eggs 
one  at  a  time,  beat  well.  Drop  on  tins  greased  with  crisco 
and  bake  in  a  hot  oven  30  minutes. 

Cream  Filling 

2  tb.  sugar  2  c.  scalded  milk 

J/s  c.  flour  1  t.  vanilla,  or 

yi  t.  salt  2  t.  lemon  extract 

2  eggs 

Mix  dry  ingredients  and  beaten  eggs.  Gradually  pour 
over  this  the  scalded  milk.  Cook  15  minutes  in  double 
boiler,  stirring  constantly  until  it  thickens.     Cool  and  flavor. 


Blueberry  Cake  or  Muffins 

1  c.  sugar  J/2  c.  milk 

2j^  c.  flour  1  egg 

1  t.  soda  Butter  size  of  an  egg 

2  t.  cream  tartar  1  pt.  blueberries 

Mix  and  sift  dry  ingredients,  reserving  ^2  cup  flour  to 
mix  with  berries.  Work  in  butter;  add  milk  gradually,  egg 
well  beaten,  and  blueberries  mixed  with  reserved  flour. 
Bake  over  a  medium  flame. 


Strawberry  Shortcake 

2  c.  flour  2  t.  sugar 

4  t.  baking  powder  ^  c.  milk 

^  t.  salt  ^  c.  butter 

Mix  dry  ingredients  and  sift  twice;  work  in  butter  and 
add   milk  gradually.     Toss  on   a  floured   board   and   divide 

207 


Cakes 

in  two  parts.  Roll  out  and  place  in  buttered  Washington 
pie  tins  and  bake  12  minutes  over  a  high  flame.  Split  and 
spread  with  butter.  Allow  from  1  to  1^  boxes  of  straw- 
berries to  each  cake. 

Blueberry  Cup  Cakes 

1  c.  granulated  sugar  1  egg 

J/^  c.  sweet  milk  2  c.  flour 

1  tb.  melted  crisco  1  heaping  t.  baking  powder 

1  saltspoon  salt  and  nutmeg  1  c.  blueberries,  mixed  with  flour 

Bake  20  minutes  in  moderate  oven.  These  are  nice 
served  warm. 

Strawberry  Short  Cake 

2  c.  flour  1  t.  sugar 
1  t.  salt  ^  c.  crisco 
4  t.  baking  powder                              ^  c.  milk 

Sift  together  the  dry  ingredients.  Cut  in  the  crisco 
thoroughly  with  a  knife  and  add  the  milk  gradually,  mixing 
with  a  knife  to  a  soft  dough.  Toss  on  floured  board  and  roll 
lightly.  Bake  in  round  layer  pan  in  hot  oven.  Split  and 
butter  before  filling  with  strawberries,  cut  in  halves.  Sprinkle 
with  powdered  sugar,  cover  the  top  layer  with  whole  berries 
and  garnish  with  whipped  cream. 

Gingerbread 

J4  c.  milk  2  c,  flour 

)4  c.  crisco  3  tb.  yellow  ginger  (or  ginger 

1  c.  sugar  and  turmeric) 

2  eggs  }4  t.  soda 
J4^  c.  molasses  }4  t.  salt 

Sift  dry  ingredients  together.  Cream  crisco  and  sugar. 
Add  well  beaten  eggs  and  molasses.  Alternate  flour  and 
milk.  Pour  into  criscoed  tins  and  bake  in  hot  oven  for  first 
10  minutes;  reduce  heat  and  bake  in  moderate  oven  25  min- 
utes. 

Food  for  the  Gods 

1  lb.  English  walnuts  (before  J4  lb.  dates  cut  in  4  or  5  pieces 

cracked)  6  eggs 

2  c.  brown  sugar  7  tb.  cracker  crumbs 

Beat  yolks  of  eggs,  add  sugar  and  cream  together  well; 
add  nuts  (chopped)  and  dates,  then  cracker  crumbs.  Lastly 
add  beaten  whites  of  eggs  and  bake  in  slow  oven  30  minutes. 
Cut  in  squares — serve  with  whipped  cream. 

208 


CHAPTER  XX 

ICINGS  AND  FILLINGS 

Lemon  Icing 

Two  tablespoonfuls  butter,  cream  it,  then  add  the  yolk 
of  1  egg.  Beat  the  white  and  add  a  Httle  sugar  pulverized, 
then  beat  with  butter  and  yolk.  Add  juice  of  1  lemon,  also 
the  rind  grated  and  then  add  sugar  to  make  stiff  enough. 
It  takes  almost  a  pound  of  pulverized  sugar. 

Golden  Icing 

Boil  2  cupfuls  sugar,  1  cupful  water,  until  it  strings. 
Pour  over  well  beaten  yolks  of  4  eggs.  Beat  until  smooth 
and  thick;  add  1^4  teaspoonfuls  Burnett's  orange  extract 
and  spread  rapidly  on  cake. 

Icing  (Orange) 

1  egg  (beaten)  1  c.  sugar 

Rind  and  juice  of  1  orange 

Cook  in  double  boiler  until  thick.  Beat  for  a  few  minutes 
after  taking  from  fire,  spread  when  cool. 

Ice  Cream  Filling 

2  c.  sugar  yi  t.  cream  tartar 

^  c.  boiling  water 

Let  dissolve,  cover  and  come  slowly  to  a  boil.  Beat  whites 
of  4  eggs  dry,  and  when  syrup  is  heavy  pour  by  spoonful 
into  whites,  letting  syrup  boil  all  the  time.  Let  the  last 
syrup  string  long  hairs,  beat  and  put  the  pan,  containing 
icing,  in  large  pan  of  hot  water,  see  that  pans  fit  so  that  no 
steam  will  escape  and  add  teaspoonful  juice  of  lemon,  beating 
with  the  egg  beater;  steam  until  the  icing  holds  its  shape. 
Flavor  with  orange  or  vanilla,  and  put  on  cake  at  once.  If 
chocolate  icing  is  desired,  grate  chocolate  into  icing  just  before 
steaming.  Add  nuts  and  crystallized  fruit  to  this  icing.  This 
icing  cannot  be  excelled.  If  steamed  too  much  you  can  add 
hot  water  to  make  smooth,  but  if  directions  are  carried  out 
you  cannot  fail. 

209 


Icings  and  Fillings 


Cream  Icing 


Four  tablespoonfuls  sweet  cream.  Add  enough  XXXX 
sugar  to  make  very  stiff  paste.  Flavor.  Melt  over  hot  water, 
spread  on  cake,  or  dip  small  cakes  in  it,  then  roll  in  coconut 
or  browned  almonds.  Use  hot  for  sauce  for  puddings.  Add 
cocoa  or  chocolate  if  desired. 


Gelatin  Frosting  for  Cakes 

2  tb.  Knox  gelatin  }4  c.  hot  water 

1  t.  lemon  juice  Confectioners*  sugar 

Dissolve  the  gelatin  with  the  water,  add  the  lemon  juice; 
then  sift  in  as  much  confectioners'  sugar  as  it  will  hold  to 
pour  nicely  on  a  cake. 

Icing  with  any  Flavor 

One  cupful  powdered  sugar,  enough  evaporated  milk  to 
make  it  the  proper  consistence  to  spread  with  butter  the 
size  of  a  walnut. 

Almond  Icing 

3  c.  powdered  sugar  (sifted)  1  c.  ground  almonds 
y^  c.  butter  1  tb.  lemon  juice 

1  t.  almond  extract  1  tb.  boiling  water 

Cream  butter,  add  gradually  sugar,  then  flavoring,  last 
water.     Add  more  water  if  needed  to  spread  nicely. 

Chocolate  Icing 

Put  ^2  cupful  cocoa  with  1  cupful  of  sugar,  the  yolk 
of  1  egg  and  2  tablespoonfuls  milk,  well  mixed  together  in 
double  boiler  to  heat,  stirring  all  the  time.  Cook  until  it 
hardens  when  dropped  in  cold  water.  Can  be  used  for 
cakes  or  cookies. 

Nut  Filling 

One  cupful  each  of  light  brown  sugar,  sour  cream  and 
finely  chopped  English  walnuts.  Boil  together  until  the 
mixture  threads;  cool  and  spread  between  layers.  It  should 
be  creamy  when  right.  A  few  drops  of  orange  extract  im- 
prove its  flavor. 

210 


Icings  and  Fillings 

Marshmallow  Icing 

One  cupful  granulated  sugar,  1  dozen  marsh  mallows, 
white  of  1  egg.  Boil  sugar  and  little  water  until  it  spins 
thread,  pour  over  beaten  white  of  egg,  add  marshmallows 
and  beat  until  cool  enough  to  spread. 

Butter-Scotch  Filling 

Scald  1  cup  of  milk  in  double  boiler;  stir  3  level  table- 
spoonfuls  of  cornstarch  and  }4  teaspoonful  salt  with  ^  cup 
of  cold  milk  to  a  smooth  consistency,  add  2  cups  brown 
sugar  and  2  tablespoonfuls  butter,  then  let  cook  in  the  hot 
milk,  stirring  all  the  time,  until  smooth  and  thick. 

Butter-Scotch  Filling 

One  cupful  confectioners'  sugar,  moistened  with  milk 
and  the  grated  rind  of  an  orange,  which  may  have  been  saved 
from  the  breakfast  table. 

Sunshine  Filling 

2  c.  sugar  4  yolks 

^  c.  water  Grated  rind  of  1  orange 

Boil  sugar  and  water  together  to  a  syrup  that  spins  a 
thread.  Pour  over  well  beaten  yolks  and  }^  teaspoonful 
salt.  Add  rind,  beat  until  it  shows  signs  of  granulating,  pour 
on  cake  and  spread  rapidly 

Mocha  Filling 

}4  c.  butter  ^  t.  salt 

1  c.  confectioners'  sugar  1  tb.  strong  coffee  infusion 

Cream  butter  and  add  sugar  gradually  until  all  oily 
appearances  have  disappeared  (it  may  require  more  sugar). 
As  the  mixture  thickens,  add  the  coffee,  one  drop  at  a  time, 
beating  all  the  while.  Flavor  with  1  teaspoonful  vanilla 
and  spread  between  layers  and  on  top  of  cake. 

Good  Caramel  Filling 

1^  c,  dark  brown  sugar  ^  c.  fresh,  sweet  milk 

14  c.  granulated  sugar  2  tb.  melted  butter 

Melt  butter;  stir  in  sugar;  pour  over  milk,  and  stir 
constantly  until  it  will  begin  to  rope.  Remove  from  fire; 
beat  until  cold  enough  to  spread  on  layers.  One  teaspoonful 
Burnett's  vanilla,  added  last. 

211 


Icings  and  FilliTigs 

Chocolate  Icing 

1}4  squares  chocolate  1  t.  melted  crisco 

J4  c.  scalded  milk  1  egg  yolk 

1}4  t.  Burnett's  vanilla  Powdered  sugar 

Melt  chocolate  over  hot  water,  add  scalded  cream,  salt, 
egg  and  butter.  Stir  in  sugar  until  right  consistency  to 
spread,  then  add  vanilla. 

Caramel  Icing 

}4  c.  granulated  sugar  1  t.  butter 

}4  c.  brown  sugar  1  oz.  chocolate 

}4  c.  hot  water  1  t.  Burnett's  vanilla 

Melt  the  granulated  sugar  in  a  saucepan,  add  the  water 
gradually,  then  the  brown  sugar,  butter  and  chocolate.  Cook 
to  the  soft  ball  stage.  Remove  from  the  fire,  add  vanilla, 
beat  until  creamy  and  then  spread  on  cake. 

Filling  Supreme 

2  c.  sugar  ^  lb.  marshmallows 

}4  c.  orange  juice  (strained)  3  egg  whites,  beaten  stiff 

Put  the  orange  juice  and  sugar  in  a  saucepan  and  boil 
to  the  soft  ball  stage.  Remove  from  the  fire  and  add  the 
marshmallows  cut  fine.  Let  stand  until  the  marshmallows 
melt.  Add  4  egg  whites  and  beat  until  cold.  Fold  in  the 
last  egg  white  and  flavor  to  taste. 

Delicious  Frosting 

2}4  c.  confectioners'  sugar  2  tb.  soft  butter  (not  melted) 

5  tb.  sweet  cream  1  t.  Burnett's  vanilla 

By  putting  2  squares  of  unsweetened  chocolate  in  a  cup 
and  setting  the  cup  in  hot  water  until  the  chocolate  is  dis- 
solved and  adding  it  to  the  above,  it  makes  a  delicious  frosting 
for  chocolate  cake  or  any  kind  of  white  cake.  This  frosting 
will  remain  soft  as  long  as  the  cake  lasts  and  will  not  run. 

Fudge  Filling 

J^  tb.  butter  l}4  c  milk 

^  t.  salt  2  squares  chocolate 

1  c.  granulated  sugar  1  t.  Burnett's  vanilla  extract 

Dissolve  the  sugar  in  milk;  bring  to  boiling  point  and  let 
boil  about  10  minutes.  Add  butter  and  melted  chocolate. 
When  a  very  soft  ball  can  be  formed  by  dropping  in  cold 
water,  remove  from  the  range  and  beat  until  creamy.  Add 
vanilla  and  spread  rapidly  on  cake.  Nut  meats  may  be 
added  if  desired. 

212 


Icings  and  Fillings 

Cream  Filling  No.  1 

^  c.  sugar  yi  t.  salt 

2  c.  scalded  milk  2  eggs 

J4  c.  flour  1  t.  vanilla 

Thoroughly  mix  flour,  sugar  and  salt.  Add  eggs  beaten 
slightly  and  then  pour  in  gradually  scalded  milk.  Cook, 
stirring  constantly  until  thickened. 

Mocha  Frosting 

J/3  c.  butter  1  c.  whipped  cream 

1  c.  confectioners*  sugar  l}4  squares  melted  chocolate 

}4  t.  vanilla 

Cream  the  butter  and  add  sugar  gradually.  Then  add 
1  cupful  of  the  cream  filling.  Stir  in  the  vanilla  and  melted 
chocolate. 

For  Lemon  Filling 

The  juice  and  grated  rind  2  egg  yolks 

of  1  lemon  1  c.  shredded  coconut 

1  c.  powdered  sugar 

Mix  lemon  juice  and  rind  with  sugar  and  yolks  of  eggs, 
slightly  beaten.  Cook  10  minutes  in  double  boiler.  Stir 
constantly,  then  add  the  coconut.  Cool  and  spread  between 
layers. 

How  to  Whip  Cream 

In  the  first  place  the  cream  should  be  at  least  24,  prefer- 
ably 36  hours  old.  It  must  be  very  cold  and  be  thick  and  rich. 
Whip  it  up  in  a  cool  basin  and  in  a  cool  place;  when  it  begins 
to  thicken  perceptibly  add  the  beaten  whites  of  2  eggs  to 
each  pint  of  cream.  This  gives  it  body.  Continue  beating, 
adding  at  the  last  sugar  and  flavoring  to  taste. 

Cream  Icing 

J4  c.  sweet  cream  Pinch  salt 

1>?  c.  XXXX  sugar  1  t.  Burnett  vanilla 

Roll  and  sift  sugar.  Add  sugar  gradually  to  the  cream, 
until  all  is  well  mixed.  Set  this  over  boiling  water,  and 
stir  until  you  have  a  cream  icing  with  all  ingredients  thor- 
oughly mixed;  put  in  salt  while  stirring.  Flavor  just  before 
taking  from  the  stove.  Remove  and  beat  gently  until  the 
icing   has  cooled.     By  adding   1)4  tablespoonfuls  of   cocoa 

213 


Icings  and  Fittings 

to  the  cream  icing,  you  can  make  a  chocolate  cream  icing. 
Almonds  ground  fine  may  also  be  used  with  the  cream 
icing,  or  with  the  chocolate  cream  icing.  To  prepare  the 
almonds,  first  drop  the  nuts  in  boiling  water  and  let  them 
stand  until  thoroughly  heated  so  they  may  be  easily  blanched. 
Drain  and  blanch  with  the  fingers.  While  still  warm  and 
moist  grind  them  with  the  finest  blade  of  meat  grinder.  If 
nuts  are  allowed  to  dry  before  grinding,  the  oil  and  the  sub- 
stance of  the  nuts  will  separate.  When  ground,  put  in  the 
oven  in  a  shallow  tin  and  brown  to  a  delicate  shade.  Sprinkle 
over  the  cake  after  it  has  been  frosted  with  cream  icing  or 
chocolate  cream  icing. 

Ice  Cream  Icing 

6  egg  whites  ^  t.  cream  tartar  and  tartaric 

3  c.  sugar  acid  mixed 

}4  c.  water 

Boil  sugar  in  water  until  it  begins  to  thicken.  Pour  in 
small  quantities  over  beaten  whites,  letting  the  syrup  continue 
to  cook  until  the  last  is  poured  in.  Beat  well,  then  steam 
over  hot  water  until  stiff.  Add  cream  tartar  and  tartaric 
acid.     When  cooked  add  flavor,  according  to  taste. 


214 


CHAPTER  XXI 

PUDDINGS 
Brown  Betty 

3  c.  sliced  apple  }4  t.  cinnamon 

4  tb.  crisco  \yi  c.  bread  crumbs 
2  c.  hot  water  }^  c.  sugar 

Fill  a  baking  dish  with  alternate  layers  of  crumbs  and 
apple,  beginning  and  finishing  with  a  layer  of  crumbs.  Dot 
over  with  butter,  sprinkle  with  sugar,  and  pour  over  all  the 
water,  into  which  the  cinnamon  has  been  stirred.  Bake  in 
the  oven.     Serve  with  cream  or  hard  sauce. 

Bread  Pudding 

1  pt.  sweet  milk  5^  c.  sugar 

2  eggs  yi  t.  salt 

2  tb.  crisco  1  c.  bread  crumbs 

%  c.  raisins  1  t.  flavoring 

Beat  the  yolks,  add  the  butter,  and  stir  in  the  sugar. 
Put  in  the  salt,  flavoring,  and  crumbs,  and  pour  in  the  milk. 
Stir  in  the  beaten  whites  and  seeded  raisins.  Bake  in  a 
buttered  pudding  dish  in  a  slow  oven.  One  ounce  of  chocolate 
may  be  used  instead  of  the  raisins.  It  may  be  melted  and 
the  milk  added  to  it  slowly. 

Cottage  Pudding 

1  c.  flour  1  egg 

2  tb.  crisco  yi  c.  milk 

4  tb.  sugar  1  t.  baking  powder 

1  t.  flavoring 

Cream  the  butter,  stir  in  the  yolk  and  when  well  mixed 
add  sugar,  stirring  well.  Sift  the  flour  and  baking  powder 
together  and  add  this  to  the  mixture,  a  little  at  a  time, 
alternating  with  milk  till  all  is  in.  Put  in  flavoring  and 
fold  in  beaten  white.  Bake  in  a  cake  pan.  Serve  it  with 
lemon   sauce. 

215 


Puddings 

Rice  Pudding 

Use  ^2  cup  of  uncooked  rice,  or  1  cup  of  cooked  rice, 
instead  of  crumbs  in  the  bread  pudding  recipe.  When  the 
rice  is  uncooked,  add  one-fourth  more  milk  and  cook  with  a 
cover  over  the  dish  at  first. 

Sauce 

Boil  sugar  and  water  till  syrup  spins  a  thread,  pour  over 
beaten  yolks  of  eggs,  and  stir  quickly.  Set  aside  to  cool, 
stir  occasionally,  add  lemon  extract  and  just  before  serving 
mix  in  whipped  cream. 

Boiled  Custard 

1  c.  milk  1^  tb.  sugar 

1  yolk  J4  t.  flavoring 

Pinch  of  salt 

Scald  the  milk  In  a  double  boiler.  Beat  the  yolk  and 
sugar  together.  Pour  the  hot  milk  slowly  over  this  mixture, 
beating  all  the  time.  Return  to  the  double  boiler,  and  cook 
till  the  custard  coats  the  spoon.     Strain  and  flavor. 

Baked  Apples 

6  apples  X  c.  raisins 

1  c.  sugar  1  doz.  nut  meats 

^2  lemon 

Wash  and  core  the  apples.  Place  them  in  a  deep  pan; 
fill  the  centers  with  nuts,  raisins  and  sugar,  pour  in  enough 
hot  water  to  half  cover  the  apples.  Put  in  the  slices  of  lemon 
and  cook  gently  till  the  apples  are  soft  and  the  syrup  has 
boiled  down.  The  apples  may  be  cooked  in  a  covered  vessel 
on  the  stove,  and  then,  with  the  cover  removed,  put  in  the 
oven  to  brown. 

Tapioca  Pudding 

1  c.  tapioca  1  pt.  fruit 

4  c.  water  ^  c.  sugar 

Soak  the  tapioca  1  hour  in  1  cup  of  water  and  add  it  to 
3  cups  water  that  have  been  brought  to  boiling  point.  Cook 
till  clear,  stir  in  the  cooked  fruit  and  sugar  and  mold.  Serve 
with  cream  and  sugar.  Apples  may  be  pared,  and  cored 
and  placed  in  a  baking  dish  into  which  the  soaked  tapioca 
has  been  poured.  The  water  and  sugar  may  be  added  and 
the  pudding  baked. 

216 


Puddings 
Steamed  Pudding 

"4  tb.  crisco  2  t.  baking  powder 

>^  c.  sugar  1  egg 

2H  c.  flour  ^  1  c.  milk 

Pinch  of  salt 

Cream  the  crisco,  add  the  well  beaten  egg,  and  stir  in 
the  sugar.  Sift  the  baking  powder  and  flour  together.  Dis- 
solve the  salt  in  the  milk  and  add  it  to  the  first  mixture, 
alternating  with  the  flour.  Steam  2  hours  in  well  buttered 
baking  powder  cans  or  molds.  Serve  with  hard  sauce  and 
any  stewed  fruit. 

Woodford  Pudding 

}^  c.  crisco  1  t.  soda 

1  c.  sugar  1}4  c.  flour 

3  eggs,  well  beaten  1  c.  blackberry  jam 
}^  c.  buttermilk  1  t.  nutmeg 

1  t.  salt 

Cream  crisco  and  sugar  well,  add  ^2  teaspoonful  salt. 
Add  the  eggs  beaten  together  until  light.  Sift  dry  ingredients 
with  flour.  Alternate  the  flour  and  buttermilk,  add  the  jam 
last.  Bake  in  a  moderate  oven  and  serve  with  the  following 
sauce: 

Woodford  Sauce 

Two  tablespoonfuls  butter  creamed,  into  this  beat  as  much 
pulverized  sugar  as  it  will  take  up.  Add  )4  teaspoonful  of 
salt,  place  this  over  boiling  water  and  stir  until  it  becomes  a 
liquid,  season  with  vanilla  or  sherry  wine  and  just  before 
serving  add  1  cupful  of  whipped  cream.     Serve  hot. 

Plum  Pudding 

1  c.  flour  1  c.  crisco 

4  c.  bread  crumbs  1  c.  sugar 
6  eggs                                                       1  c.  milk 

1  c,  citron  1  t.  cinnamon 

2  c.  raisins  1  t.  nutmeg 
2  c.  currants  1  t.  soda 

2  pieces  crystallized  ginger 

Wash  the  currants  and  raisins.  Cut  up  the  citron  and 
mix  all  the  fruit  with  the  crumbs.  Beat  the  eggs,  add 
the  sugar,  milk  and  seasonings.  Combine  mixtures  and 
pour  in  the  butter,  melted.  Boil  4  hours  in  buttered  tins. 
Serve  with  hard  sauce. 

15  217 


Puddings 


Sauces  for  Puddings 


Hard  Sauce 

J4  c.  butter  1  t.  flavoring 

^  c.  sugar  yi  t.  nutmeg 

Cream  the  butter,  and  stir  into  it  the  sugar.  Add  the 
flavoring  and,  when  very  light,  pile  on  a  dish,  dusting  it  over 
with  the  nutmeg. 

Lemon  Sauce 

(For  Cottage  Pudding) 

}4  c.  sugar  2  tb.  cornstarch 

1  c.  water  1  lemon 

Wash  the  lemon  and  grate  the  rind.  Mix  the  cornstarch 
with  a  little  cold  water  and  add  it  to  the  cup  of  water  that 
has  been  brought  to  boiling  point.  Cook  till  clear,  add  the 
sugar  and  turn  into  a  double  boiler  to  keep  hot.  Add  the 
rind  and  juice  of  the  lemon. 

Whipped  Cream 

1  pt.  cream  2  t.  flavoring 

4  tb.  sugar 

Have  the  cream  very  cold.  Set  the  bowl  containing  it 
in  ice  and  beat  till  stiff,  adding  sugar  and  flavoring  last. 

English  Plum  Pudding 

}4  lb.  flour,  browned  1  lb.  crystallized  fruit  (mixed) 

}4  lb.  bread  crumbs  }4  lb.  pecans 

1  lb.  sugar  (brown)  ^  lb.  citron 
1  lb.  suet,  chopped  fine,  or  crisco   }4  lb.  orange  and  lemon  peel 
1  lb.  currants  (each) 

1  lb.  raisins  1  lb.  almonds 

1  t.  cinnamon  1  t.  cloves 

1  t.  salt  1  small  nutmeg  grated 

One  cup  of  brandy,  juice  of  2  lemons,  8  eggs,  beaten 
separately.  Bread  should  be  stale  and  free  of  crust.  Pour 
brandy  over  fruit  over  night.  Beat  eggs  and  sugar  together, 
add  bread  crumbs,  flour  and  fruit.  If  too  stiff  add  a  little 
grape  juice  or  wine.  If  too  soft,  add  flour.  Steam  in  1-pound 
baking  powder  cans  or  small  buckets.  Serve  with  eggnog 
sauce. 

218 


Puddings 


Eggnog  Sauce 


Cream  yolks  of  2  eggs  and  1  cup  sugar,  add  2  tablespoonfuls 
brandy.  Place  cup  of  cream  in  saucepan  of  water,  and  let 
water  gradually  boil.     Just  before  serving  add  to  egg  mixture. 

Snow  Balls  (Steamed) 


^  c.  cnsco  ^X4 

1  c.  sugar  3  t.  baking  powder 

}4  c.  milk  1  t.  salt 

Sift  flour  4  times.  Whites  of  4  eggs,  make  same  manner 
as  cake.  Put  in  buttered  cups  and  steam  40  minutes.  Serve 
with  sauce. 

Orange  Pudding 

1  c.  stale  bread  crumbs  1  pt.  sweet  milk 

}4  c.  sugar  ^  c.  grated  orange  peel  and 

1  tb.  crisco  juice  of  1  orange 

2  eggs  (yolks) 

Bake  slowly,  cover  with  meringue  of  the  whites  and  J4 
cupful  sugar,  brown  in  oven  and  serve  with  sauce  flavored 
with  orange. 

Plum  Pudding 

1  lb.  brown  sugar  }4  t.  powdered  mace 

8  eggs  1  c.  New  Orleans  molasses 

}4  lb.  bread  crumbs  1  c.  brandy 

1  lb.  browned  flour  )4  c.  lemon  juice 
1  lb.  crisco  or  suet  1  lb.  seeded  raisins 

4  t.  baking  powder  1  lb.  sultana  raisins 

1  t.  salt  2  lbs.  currants 

1  t.  powdered  cloves  ^  lb.  crystallized  cherries 

1  t.  powdered  cinnamon  }4  lb.  crystallized  pineapple 

^  t.  powdered  ginger  }4  lb.  stoned  dates 

1  t.  powdered  nutmeg  ^  lb.  candied  citron  peel 
)4  lb'  candied  orange  peel 

Chop  peels,  dates,  cherries  and  pineapple,  add  raisins  and 
currants,  then  pour  brandy  over  them  and  let  stand  over 
night.  Cream  the  crisco  and  sugar  together,  add  eggs  well 
beaten,  and  all  other  ingredients.  Divide  into  crisco  mold 
(small  crisco  cans  will  do),  filling  ^  full,  and  steam  steadily 
for  3  hours.     Turn  out  and  serve  with  hard  sauce. 

Prune  Pudding 

Cooked  prunes  stoned  and  filled  with  marshmallows 
{^2  marshmallow  to  each  prune).  Serve  with  juice  and 
whipped  cream. 

219 


Puddings 

Nesselrode  Pudding 

Take  1  pint  shelled  almonds;  l}4  pints  shelled  chestnuts; 
1  pint  grated  pineapple;  ^  pound  French  candied  fruit; 
1  pint  cream;  10  eggs  (yolks  only);  1  tablespoonful  vanilla 
extract;  4  tablespoonfuls  wine  (this  may  be  omitted);  1  pint 
water,  1  pint  sugar.  Boil  the  chestnuts  }4  hour,  then  rub 
off  the  black  skins  and  pound  the  kernels  to  paste  in  a  mortar. 
Blanch  the  almonds  and  pound  them  in  the  same  manner. 
Boil  the  sugar  and  water  and  the  juice  from  the  pineapple 
together  for  20  minutes  in  a  saucepan.  Beat  the  yolks  of 
the  eggs,  and  stir  them  into  the  syrup.  Set  the  saucepan 
in  another  pan  containing  boiling  water,  and  beat  the  mixture 
with  an  egg  beater  until  it  thickens;  then  remove  from  the 
fire,  set  in  a  basin  of  cold  water,  and  beat  for  10  minutes. 
Mix  the  almonds  and  chestnuts  with  the  cream,  rub  all 
through  a  sieve,  and  add  the  candied  fruits  and  the  pineapple. 
Stir  the  mixture  into  the  cooked  preparation,  add  the  flavor- 
ing and  J/2  teaspoonful  salt,  and  freeze  the  same  as  ice  cream. 

Jam  Pudding 

One-half  cupful  crisco,  creamed  with  1  teaspoonful  salt, 
1  cupful  sugar  and  yolks  of  3  eggs.  Add  1  cupful  blackberry 
jam,  1  teaspoonful  soda  and  5  tablespoonfuls  buttermilk, 
then  1^  cupfuls  flour  and  whites  of  egg.  Flavor  with  cinna- 
mon, nutmeg,  and  tablespoonful  sherry  wine.  Bake  in  hot 
oven,  serve  with  wine  sauce.     Very  good. 

Raisin  Gems 

J4  c.  crisco  1  c.  chopped  nuts 

2  tb.  sugar,  creamed  1  c.  chopped  raisins 

2  eggs  1  t.  vanilla 

1  c.  sweet  milk  1  t.  salt 

2  c.  flour  3  t.  baking  powder 

Steam  in  well  oiled  cups  for  }4  hour.     Serve  with  sauce. 
Chocolate  Balls  (Steamed) 

}4  c.  crisco  1  c.  sugar 

3  eggs  (yolks)  2  squares  melted  chocolate 
1  t.  salt  3  tb.  sweet  milk 

1  t.  baking  powder 

Beat  egg  and  sugar,  add  milk  and  chocolate.  Beat  in 
flour  and  baking  powder.  Beat  whites  and  add  to  pudding. 
Fill  greased  ramekins  and  steam  20  minutes.  Serve  with 
fruit  sauce. 

220 


Puddings 

Toast  Pudding 

Slice  stale  bread  and  slightly  toast,  taking  care  not  to 
burn,  butter  generously,  place  in  pudding  dish  and  cover 
with  custard  made  of  yolk  of  4  eggs,  1  cupful  sugar,  1  teaspoon- 
ful  butter,  3}4  cupfuls  milk,  juice  of  1  lemon.  Bake  in 
moderate  oven.     Currants  and  raisins  added  if  desired. 

Ginger  Pudding 

3  c.  flour  ^  c.  crisco 

4  eggs  1  tb.  ginger 
1  c.  sugar  1  t.  soda 

1  c.  molasses  1}4  t.  baking  powder 

1  c.  buttermilk  1  t.  salt 

Cream  crisco,  sugar  and  whole  egg,  add  molasses.  Sift 
dry  ingredients,  alternate  with  milk.     Bake  in  moderate  oven. 

Raspberry  Bohemian  Pudding 

Make  a  custard  of  1  quart  sweet  milk,  yolks  of  3  eggs, 
J/^  cup  sugar  and  1  teaspoonful  vanilla.  Have  1  package  of 
Knox  gelatin  dissolved  in  1  pint  boiling  water  ready  to 
pour  into  custard  while  both  custard  and  gelatin  are  hot. 
Beat  until  it  begins  to  thicken.  Pour  into  oiled  molds  and 
place  broken  macaroons  and  lady-fingers,  dates  and  red  rasp- 
berries between  layers.  Chill  several  hours  and  serve  with 
whipped  cream.     Flavor  with  rum. 

Aunt  Sallie's  Charlotte  Russe 

3  pts.  cream  1  tb.  Knox  gelatin,  dissolved 

6  eggs  (whites)  in  ^  pt.  water 

^  lb.  sugar 

Whip  cream  and  drain.  Use  half  sugar  in  cream,  whip 
eggs  dry,  and  use  balance  of  sugar  in  eggs.  Put  mixtures 
together,  pour  gelatin  in,  whipping  all  the  while,  flavor  with 
vanilla  and  1  tablespoonful  sherry  wine.  Whip  vigorously 
to  prevent  lumping.  Line  bowl  with  sponge  cake  or  lady- 
fingers,  turn  in  the  cream,  and  garnish  with  whipped  cream 
and  cherries. 

Cliocolate  Mold 

2  c.  milk  (scalded)  }4  c.  sugar  (dissolved  in  hot 
2  squares  chocolate  (melted)  water) 

2  tb.  Knox  gelatin 

Pour  all  together  and  mix  until  smooth.  Let  cool  and 
beat  and  add  beaten  white  of  1  egg,  1  cupful  whipped 
cream,  1  tablespoonful  brandy,  and  1  tablespoonful  vanilla. 
Pour  in  hot  mold. 

221 


Sauces  for  Puddings 

Rice  Cream 

Put  a  pint  of  rich  milk  into  the  double  boiler  with  2 
tablespoonfuls  of  rice,  a  pinch  of  salt,  a  small  }4  cup  of  sugar, 
and  an  inch  piece  of  stick  cinnamon.  Cook  till  the  rice  is 
very  soft.  Have  ready  a  teaspoonful  of  gelatin,  dissolved 
in  cold  water,  and  stir  this  in,  beating  all  well.  Cool,  and 
stir  in  lightly  a  cup  of  whipped  cream,  and  set  in  a  mold; 
turn  out  when  firm  and  surround  with  more  whipped  cream 
flavored  with  sherry  or  vanilla. 

Marron  Cream 

Boil  a  quart  of  large  Italian  chestnuts  until  they  are 
tender  and  remove  the  skins.  Mash  them  with  3  tablespoon- 
fuls of  powdered  sugar,  a  pinch  of  salt,  3  tablespoonfuls  of 
cream,  a  tablespoonful  of  Burnett's  vanilla  and  4  table- 
spoonfuls of  sherry.  Press  into  a  mold  and  turn  it  out  when 
cold.  Fill  the  center  with  cream  whipped  stiff  with  2  table- 
spoonfuls of  powdered  sugar  and  a  few  drops  of  Burnett's 
vanilla.     Garnish  with  candied  fruit. 

SAUCES  FOR  PUDDINGS 
Lemon 

J4  c.  butter  1  c.  sugar  creamed 

Yolks  3  eggs  beaten,  in  this  stirred  1  cup  boiling  water. 
One  lemon,  let  simmer  until  it  thickens,  stirring  all  the  time. 

White  Sauce 

Boil  1  cupful  milk,  thicken  with  1  tablespoonful  flour, 
rubbed  smooth  with  little  cold  milk  or  cream,  tablespoonful 
butter  and  1  cupful  sugar,  teaspoon  vanilla  and  add  to  thick- 
ened milk.  Remove  from  stove  and  beat  in  gradually  the 
beaten  white  of  egg. 

Every  Day  Sauce 

One  pint  boiling  water,  cup  sugar,  tablespoon  butter, 
pinch  of  salt,  tablespoon  cornstarch  dissolved  in  hot  water, 
boil  20  minutes,  season  with  nutmeg  or  flavor  with  lemon, 
vanilla  or  orange. 

Sauce 

Scald  1  gill  milk,  mix  ^  pint  powdered  sugar  with  yolks 
of  2  eggs.  Add  to  boiling  milk,  boil  until  mixture  is  like 
thick  custard,  cool,  flavor  and  just  before  serving  add  whites 
of  eggs  and  1  cupful  whipped  cream. 

222 


Sauces  for  Puddings 
Wine  Sauce 

J^  lb.  butter  2  eggs  (yolks) 

9  tb.  sugar 

Beat  eggs  well,  add  to  sugar  and  butter.  Add  1  cupful 
wine  and  little  grated  nutmeg.  Boil  for  few  minutes  in 
double  boiler. 

Maraschino  Sauce 

3  tb.  granulated  sugar  2  eggs  (yolks),  creamed 

J/2  c.  rich  cream 

Whites  of  2  eggs  and  wine-glass  of  juice  from  maraschino 
cherries.  Beat  mixture  in  double  boiler  until  hot,  but  do 
not  boil. 

Chocolate  Sauce 

Melt  3  squares  chocolate,  add  1  cup  milk  and  cream. 
Stir  in  l^cupfuls  sugar,  cook  in  double  boiler  until  thickens, 
flavor  with  vanilla.     Serve  hot.     Nice  with  vanilla  ice  cream. 

Chocolate  Sauce  for  Vanilla  Ice  Cream 

2  squares  chocolate  1  c.  boiling  water 

1  c.  sugar  1  t.  cornstarch 

Boil  until  thick. 

Maraschino  Sauce 

Cream  together  2  tablespoonfuls  butter,  1^  cupfuls 
powdered  sugar,  a  little  salt,  and  1  egg,  unbeaten.  When 
quite  smooth  add  a  teaspoon  of  vanilla  or  3  of  maraschino 
syrup  and  blend  lightly  with  1^  cupfuls  whipped  cream. 
Add  )4  cupful  of  chopped  cherries  which  have  been  well 
drained  and  serve  at  once. 

Lemon  Sauce 

^  c.  sugar  2  tb.  butter 

J4  c.  water  1  tb.  lemon  juice 

Make  a  syrup,  by  boiling  sugar  and  water  8  minutes. 
Remove  from  fire  and  add  butter  and  lemon  juice. 

Hard  Sauce 

Cream  3  tablespoonfuls  butter  with  as  much  granulated 
sugar   as  it  will   take,   adding   a   tablespoonful   of  whipped 

223 


Sauces  for  Puddings 

cream.  Beat  until  smooth  and  sugar  is  dissolved,  flavor  with 
vanilla  and  brandy.  Put  in  refrigerator  until  ready  to  use. 
If  to  use  for  blackberry  roll  or  dumplings,  color  with  black- 
berry juice. 

Foamy  Sauce 

2  tb.  butter  1  c.  powdered  sugar 

1  whole  egg  (cream  all  together) 

When  smooth,  add  a  pinch  of  salt,  and  1  teaspoonful 
vanilla.  When  ready  to  serve,  fold  in  a  cup  of  whipped 
cream. 

Apricot  Sauce 

X  tb.  Knox  gelatin  ^  pt.  (1>^  c.)  cold  water 

2  oz.  (tb.)  sugar  }4  jar  preserved  apricots 

Few  drops  red  coloring 

Put  the  gelatin  into  a  saucepan,  add  the  water,  sugar, 
and  apricots.  Boil  gently  for  10  minutes,  then  add  the 
coloring,  rum  and  maraschino.  This  sauce  is  delicious  with 
gelatin  pudding. 

Cherry  Sauce 

Mix  2  tablespoonfuls  of  flour  with  ^4  cupful  of  sugar; 
add  hastily  1  cupful  of  boiling  water;  stir  and  boil  a  minute, 
and  pour  slowly  into  1  egg,  well  beaten.  Beat  a  moment, 
and  add  }4  cupful  of  cherry  juice. 

Caramel  Sauce — Mrs.  Wilson 

}4  c.  butter  4  tb.  sweet  cream 

1  c.  light  brown  sugar  Vanilla 

Cream  butter  and  sugar  well.  Add  gradually  cream  and 
then  vanilla.  Steam  until  creamy.  Ice  cakes  and  roll  in 
browned,  chopped  almonds.  Flavor  with  rum  or  sherry  and 
serve  as  hot  sauce  for  puddings,  etc. 

Hot  Marshmallow  Sauce 

Boil  1  cup  of  sugar  and  }4  cup  of  hot  water  5  or  6  minutes, 
after  boiling  begins.  Do  not  stir  after  the  syrup  boils. 
Remove  from  the  fire;  add  J^  pound  of  marshmallows  and 
beat  until  they  are  melted.  Flavor  with  }4  teaspoonful 
of  vanilla,  if  desired.  If  serving  be  delayed,  keep  the  sauce 
hot  over  warm  water,  then  add  a  few  drops  of  hot  syrup  or 
boiling  water  and  beat  again. 

224 


Sauces  for  Puddings 

Yellow  Sauce 

Two  eggs,  1  cup  sugar,  1  teaspoon  lemon.  Beat  the  eggs 
until  very  light,  add  gradually  the  sugar  and  beat  again, 
then  add  the  lemon.     Steam  for  10  minutes. 

Orange  Sauce 

Three  egg  whites,  1  cup  powdered  sugar,  2  oranges,  juice 
and  rind,  1  lemon,  juice.  Beat  the  whites  of  the  eggs  until 
stiff,  add  the  sugar  and  beat.  Add  the  orange  rind  and 
fruit  juices.     Use  blood  oranges  when  possible. 

Hard  Sauce 

One-third  cup  butter,  1  cup  powdered  sugar,  }^  teaspoon 
lemon  extract,  ^  teaspoon  vanilla.  Cream  the  butter,  add 
gradually  the  sugar,  lemon  and  vanilla. 

Wine  Sauce 

One-fourth  cup  butter,  J/^  cup  sugar,  2  tablespoonfuls 
of  milk,  2  tablespoonfuls  of  wine.  Cream  the  butter,  add 
gradually  the  sugar.  Add  the  milk  and  wine  very  slowly 
to  the  first  mixture  to  prevent  separation.  It  should  not  be 
chilled,  but  kept  in  a  warm  place  until  served. 

Brandy  Sauce 

One-fourth  cup  butter,  1  cup  sugar,  2  tablespoonfuls 
brandy,  2  egg  yolks  and  2  egg  whites  well  beaten,  }4  cup 
milk  or  cream.  Cream  the  butter,  add  gradually  the  sugar, 
the  brandy  very  slowly,  egg  yolks  and  the  cream  or  milk. 
Cook  over  hot  water  until  it  thickens  like  a  custard,  then 
pour  on  the  egg  whites. 

Foamy  Sauce 

IK  tb.  butter  Yolk  of  1  egg,  beaten  in  well 

1  c.  sugar  }4  c.  warm  water,  stirred  in 
J4  t.  salt,  cream  together  slowly 

and  add:  Fold  in  beaten  white  of  1  egg 

Put  in  double  boiler  and  cook  until  thick.  Flavor  to 
taste. 

225 


CHAPTER  XXII 

DESSERTS 
Oriental  Prunes 

1  lb.  good  dried  prunes  2  pieces  ginger  root 

2  c.  water  (medium  size) 
1  c.  sugar                                                1  tb.  butter 

^  c.  chopped  nuts 

Wash  the  prunes  m  several  changes  of  cold  water.  Soak 
over  night  in  2  cupfuls  of  water.  In  the  morning  add  suffi- 
cient to  make  the  2  cupfuls.  Slice  the  ginger  very  thin.  Add 
the  sugar  and  butter  and  simmer  for  2  hours,  allowing  the 
syrup  to  cook  down  until  thick.  When  served,  sprinkle 
generously  with  chopped  nut  meats.  Lemon  juice  may  be 
added  if  desired. 

Delicious  Prune  Dishes 

Prunes  are  very  wholesome  and  should  be  used  often  as 
dessert.  Many  whose  digestion  forbids  the  eating  of  other 
fruit  can  eat  stewed  prunes  and  be  benefited  by  them.  Prunes 
have  a  curative  property,  and  are  very  suitable  for  the  diet 
of  convalescents.  They  are  nutritious,  laxative  and  healing. 
There  are  several  different  varieties  of  prunes  of  as  many 
different  qualities,  sour  or  sweet,  but  the  large  French  prunes 
are  best. 

Stewed  Prunes 

Stewed  prunes  are  the  best  for  general  use.  Wash  and 
soak  them  1  hour  in  cold  water,  then  stew  slowly  in  a  porcelain 
stew-pan  until  soft.  Sugar  to  taste  before  sending  to  the 
table,  or  they  can  be  sweetened  while  stewing. 

Prune  Pudding 

Remove  the  pits  from  one  pint  of  prunes,  stewed,  sweeten 
and  beat  with  3  well  beaten  eggs.  Lay  an  inch  layer  of 
puff  paste  in  the  bottom  of  a  pudding  dish  and  spread  the 
prune  mixture  on  the  crust.  Bake  a  nice  brown.  Serve 
with  sweet  cream  or  pudding  sauce. 

226 


Desserts 

Prune  Mold 

Stew  1  quart  of  prunes  until  soft,  and  put  through  a 
colander.  Put  ^2  box  of  gelatin  into  a  bowl  and  cover  with 
cold  water;  let  it  soak  for  5  minutes.  Add  the  gelatin  to  the 
prepared  prunes  with  3  tablespoonfuls  sugar;  put  on  the 
stove  and  let  boil  for  5  minutes.  Pour  into  jelly  molds  and 
when  cold  serve  with  cream. 

Plain  Prune  Jelly 

One  pound  of  prunes,  3  ounces  of  gelatin  and  2  quarts 
of  water.  Wash  the  prunes,  cover  with  boiling  water  and 
cook  rapidly  until  soft.  Meanwhile  soak  the  gelatin  in 
a  pint  of  cold  water.  Take  out  the  prunes  and  remove  the 
stones,  cut  the  fruit  each  into  3  pieces  and  return  to  the 
liquor;  add  the  gelatin  and  a  cup  of  sugar  and  stir  until 
dissolved.  Cook  3  minutes  longer  and  pour  into  wet  bowls 
to  harden.  If  it  has  boiled  away  in  the  process,  add  hot 
water  enough  to  make  the  original  quantity,  stirring  it  well. 
The  juice  of  2  lemons  is  a  good  addition  to  this  jelly,  or  it 
can  be  flavored  with  a  teaspoonful  of  vanilla. 

Prune  Jelly 

Wash  J/2  pound  of  prunes  thoroughly;  soak  in  ^  pint  of 
warm  water,  and  boil  until  tender.  Drain  off  the  juice,  rub 
the  remainder  through  a  sieve  and  return  what  does  not  go 
through,  together  with  the  cracked  pits,  to  the  liquor  in 
which  it  was  boiled.  Boil  for  10  minutes,  then  strain  and 
add  }4  pound  of  loaf  sugar.  Boil  again  until  a  syrup  is 
produced,  then  add  the  pulp  and  stir  occasionally  until  cool. 
Allow  an  ounce  of  gelatin  to  a  pint  of  prepared  fruit.  When 
both  are  cold  mix  together  thoroughly,  and  when  the  jelly 
is  on  the  point  of  setting  put  into  the  mold.  Serve  with 
cream. 

Stuffed  Prunes 

Wash  the  prunes  and  soak  in  cold  water  for  3  or  4  hours; 
put  into  a  stew-pan,  cover  with  cold  water;  and  boil  slowly 
10  minutes.  Remove  from  the  fire  and  set  to  cool  in  their 
liquor.  Drain  and  carefully  remove  the  stones.  Fill  with 
chopped  almonds,  close  and  roll  each  in  powdered  sugar 
and  serve. 

227 


Desserts 


Prune  Pie 


Stew  prunes  until  soft,  drain  ofF  the  juice  and  remove  the 
stones.  Make  a  rich  puff  paste.  Cover  the  pie-plates  and 
spread  the  fruit  in  evenly,  adding  a  small  lump  of  butter,  a 
sprinkle  of  flour  and  sugar  to  taste.  Cover  with  crust  and 
bake  a  nice  brown.  It  can  be  made  with  only  one  crust  and 
frosted  on  top  with  the  white  of  an  egg  and  3  tablespoonfuls 
powdered  sugar,  beaten  to  a  stiff  froth.  Set  in  the  oven  a 
minute  to  stiffen. 

Prune  Pudding 

One  teacupful  of  prunes  and  juice  chopped  fine.  Add 
}4  cupful  chopped  almonds;  drain  off  the  juice  and  mix  in  it 
2  teaspoonfuls  gelatin.  Mix  with  prunes  and  nuts  and  lastly 
add  the  whites  of  2  eggs  beaten  stiff.  Set  aside  to  congeal 
and  serve  with  whipped  cream. 

Prune  Pudding 

Cooked  prunes  are  stoned  and  filled  with  marshmallows 
{}4  marshmallow  to  each  prune).  Serve  with  juice  and 
whipped  cream. 

GELATIN  DESSERTS 
Lemon  Jelly 

^  box  Knox  gelatin  ^  c.  sugar 

}4  c.  cold  water  2  lemons 

2}4  c.  boiling  water 

Soak  the  gelatin  in  cold  water  20  minutes.  Add  the 
boiling  water,  the  sugar,  and  the  grated  rind  of  1  lemon  and 
the  juice  of  2.  Stir  until  the  gelatin  is  dissolved,  remove  from 
the  fire  and  strain. 

Orange  Jelly 

Use  1  cup  of  orange  juice  in  place  of  1  cup  of  boiling 
water  in  the  above  recipe  and  leave  out  1  lemon. 

Snow  Pudding 

When  either  of  the  above  jellies  begins  to  set,  whip  it 
with  a  Dover  beater  until  white  and  foamy. 

228 


Desserts 


Coffee  Jelly 


}/2  box  Knox  gelatin  1  c.  boiling  water 

}4  c.  cold  water  K  c.  sugar 

2  c.  coffee 

Make  as  lemon  jelly  and  serve  with  whipped  cream. 
Charlotte  Russe 

}^  box  Knox  gelatin  ^  c.  hot  water 

^  c.  cold  milk  ^  c.  sugar 

1  pt.  cream  1  t.  flavoring 

Whip  the  cream.  Soak  the  gelatin  in  cold  milk,  add  the 
sugar  and  hot  water  and  stir  until  the  gelatin  is  dissolved. 
Remove  from  the  fire,  cool  and  add  flavoring.  As  it  begins 
to  set,  whip  with  a  Dover  egg-beater  and  beat  it  into  a  cream. 

Marshmallow  Pudding 

1  tablespoonful  Knox  gelatin,  softened  in  1  cupful  water, 
then  add  1  cupful  boiling  water 

When  cold,  but  not  set,  pour  over  the  whites  of  4  well 
beaten  eggs,  into  which  has  been  folded  ^2  cupful  of  granu- 
lated sugar.  When  the  whole  begins  to  set,  divide  in  three 
parts,  color  one  part  pink  with  Burnett's  damask  rose  paste 
and  flavor  with  tablespoonful  sherry  wine.  Have  mold 
oiled  with  melted  crisco  and  pour  in  the  pink  part.  Color 
next  third  with  leaf  green  paste,  and  flavor  with  ^  teaspoonful 
pistachio  extract,  and  place  on  the  pink  in  mold.  Leave 
the  last  third  white  and  flavor  with  orange.  Broken  nuts 
and  crystallized  fruits  may  be  used  between  layers  if  desired. 

Delmonico  Pudding 

Heat  2  cupfuls  milk  to  the  boiling  point  in  double  boiler. 
Beat  the  yolks  of  2  eggs  very  light  and  beat  into  them  ^ 
cupful  of  sugar,  add  this  to  the  hot  milk  and  cook  until  the 
custard  coats  the  spoon.  Take  from  the  fire,  add  2  table- 
spoonfuls  Knox  gelatin,  which  has  been  softened  in  ^  cupful 
cold  milk,  1  teaspoonful  vanilla,  and  ys  cupful  sherry  wine 
and  let  cool.  Beat  the  whites  of  the  eggs  stiff"  and  fold  into 
them  y2  pint  of  whipped  cream.  When  custard  begins  to 
set,  fold  into  it  the  cream  and  whites  and  put  into  a  mold. 
Mold  with  alternate  layers  of  broken  macaroons  and  crystal- 
lized cherries. 

229 


Desserts 

Bavarian  Cream 

}4  box  Knox  sparkling  gelatin  Juice  of  }4  lemon 

)4  c.  cold  water  }4  c.  sugar 

1  c.  strawberry  juice  and  pulp       1}4  c.  double  cream  beaten  solid 

Soften  the  gelatin  in  the  cold  water  5  minutes  and  let 
dissolve  by  standing  in  hot  water;  strain  into  the  strawberry 
and  lemon  juice;  add  the  sugar  and  stir  until  it  is  dissolved, 
then  set  into  ice  water  and  stir  until  the  mixture  begins  to 
thicken;  fold  in  the  chilled  cream.  Turn  into  a  mold  lined 
with  strawberries  cut  in  halves,  and  when  chilled  turn  from 
the  mold.  Garnish  with  fresh  berries  and  leaves.  Prepare 
Bavarian  creams  with  other  fruits,  as  pineapple,  raspberry, 
grapes,  oranges,  etc.,  in  the  same  manner.  Pineapple  juice 
and  pulp  must  be  scalded  before  the  gelatin  is  added  to  it. 

Snow  Pudding 

Two  tablespoonfuls  of  gelatin,  4  tablespoonfuls  of  sugar, 
grated  rind  of  lemon,  1  tablespoonful  of  lemon  juice,  whites 
of  2  eggs.  Soak  the  gelatin  in  2  tablespoonfuls  of  cold  water 
10  minutes;  add  1  pint  of  boiling  water  into  which  you  have 
put  the  lemon  rind  and  juice  and  the  sugar.  Mix  and  set 
aside  to  cool.  Set  in  a  bowl  into  a  pan  of  cold  water  and  put 
in  the  whites  of  eggs  and  beat  until  light;  then  add  the  gelatin 
very  slowly,  beating  all  the  time.  It  should  take  from  20  to 
30  minutes.  This  should  make  1  quart.  Pour  into  a  bowl 
which  has  been  rinsed  in  cold  water.  It  must  set  at  least 
1  hour. 

Sauce 

Mix  1}^  cups  of  milk,  1  tablespoonful  of  sugar,  ^  tea- 
spoonful  of  vanilla,  yolks  of  2  eggs.  Put  the  milk  on  in 
double  boiler.  Beat  the  eggs  and  sugar  together,  add  to  the 
boiling  milk,  then  the  vanilla.  Set  aside  to  cool.  Turn  out 
the  pudding  and  pour  the  sauce  over  it. 

Toasted  Marshmallows 

1  tb.  Knox  gelatin  Whites  3  eggs 

^  c.  boiling  water  1}4  t.  vanilla 

1  c.  sugar  Macaroons 

Soak  gelatin  in  }^  cup  cold  water.  Add  sugar  and  boiling 
water.  Set  in  a  pan  of  ice  water  and  add  vanilla.  Beat 
the  gelatin  and  eggs  separately  and  when  each  begins  to 
stiffen  combine  quickly  and  pour  into  a  shallow  pan,  cut 
in  cubes,  roll  in  macaroon  crumbs  and  serve  with  cream  and 
sugar. 

230 


Desserts 
Spanish  Charlotte 

J^  box  Knox  gelatin  3  eggs 

^  c.  sugar  yi  t.  salt 

2j4  c.  milk  1  t.  vanilla 

Soak  the  gelatin  in  J^  cup  of  cold  milk  and  scald 
the  remaining  2  cups.  Beat  the  yolks  and  sugar  together; 
and  add  the  milk  slowly,  stirring  all  the  time.  Return  to 
the  double  boiler;  and  cook,  till  thick,  continuing  the  stirring. 
Add  the  salt  and  flavoring,  and  beat  all  into  the  beaten 
whites. 

Double  Molding 

Put  a  mold  into  a  pan  of  ice  and  pour  in  enough  gelatin 
to  cover  the  bottom  of  the  mold  1  inch  deep.  When  hard 
place  a  smaller  mold  on  the  jelly  and  fill  the  space  between 
the  two  molds  with  more  jelly.  Put  ice  in  the  inner  mold 
to  steady  it.  When  the  rim  of  the  jelly  is  set,  pour  warm 
water  into  the  inner  mold  and  pull  it  gently  out.  Fill  the 
center  cavity  with  a  jelly  or  charlotte  and  let  this  set.  Turn 
out  on  a  dish  when  cold.     Cut  into  slices  and  serve. 

Marshmallow  Cream 

J4  box  Knox  gelatin  1  c.  granulated  sugar 

J/2  c.  cold  water  1  t.  vanilla 

^  c.  boiling  water  ^  1  t.  lemon  extract 

Whites  of  4  eggs  *^ 

Soak  gelatin  in  the  cold  water  5  minutes;  add  the 
boiling  water  and  place  over  tea  kettle  until  thoroughly 
dissolved.  Cool,  but  do  not  chill.  Stir  the  sugar  in  the 
dissolved  gelatin.  Beat  the  whites  of  the  eggs  very  light, 
and  to  the  eggs  add  the  gelatin  and  sugar,  a  few  spoonfuls 
at  a  time,  beating  constantly.  Divide  in  two  parts,  and  to 
one  part  add  pink  color  and  flavor  with  vanilla,  about  1 
teaspoonful.  To  the  white  part  add  1  teaspoonful  lemon 
extract.  Mold  in  layers,  adding  pecan  nuts  to  the  pink  part 
and  maraschino  cherries  to  the  white  part.  May  be  served 
with  or  without  whipped  cream. 

Apricot  Cream 

J4  box  Knox  gelatin  1  pt.  milk 

Yolks  of  2  eggs,  well  beaten  1  c.  apricot  pulp 

^  c.  sugar  2  tb.  lemon  juice 

Soak  the  gelatin  in  >^  cup  milk  10  minutes.  Put 
sufl&cient  stewed  apricots  through  a  sieve  to  obtain  1  cup 
of  pulp.     Heat  remaining  milk  and  add  yolks  of  eggs  and 

231 


Desserts 

sugar  well  beaten  and  cook  in  double  boiler  until  mixture 
coats  the  spoon.  Remove  from  fire  and  add  the  softened 
gelatin  and  apricot  pulp.  Mix  thoroughly  and  lastly  add 
the  lemon  juice.     When  cool,  pour  into  mold. 

Vanity  Cream 

}4  box  Knox  gelatin  1}4  t.  pistachio  extract 

J4  c.  milk  3  or  4  drops  almond  extract 

^  c.  sugar  1)4  t.  vanilla  extract 

1}4  pts.  cream  }i  c.  seeded  raisins 

^  c.  boiling  water 

Soak  gelatin  in  the  cold  milk  5  minutes  and  dissolve  in 
the  boiling  water.  Whip  cream  and  add  sugar,  and  dis- 
solved gelatin.  Flavor  half  of  this  mixture  with  the  pistachio 
and  almond  extract  and  color  with  green  color  paste.  Line 
a  melon  mold  with  this  and  flavor  the  balance  with  vanilla 
and  stir  into  it  the  J4  cup  large  seeded  raisins.  Pour 
this  in  the  center  of  the  mold  and  chill  thoroughly  before 
serving. 

Nut  Sundae 

)4  box  Knox  gelatin  1  pt.  cream 

}4  c.  cold  water  White  of  1  egg 

}4  c.  sugar  1  c.  chopped  nuts 

1  c.  pineapple  and  strawberries 

Soak  gelatin  in  the  cold  water  5  minutes  and  dissolve 
over  hot  water.  Add  dissolved  gelatine  to  cream  and  sugar, 
and  stir  in  beaten  white  of  egg.  When  cold,  add  the  pineapple 
and  strawberries,  which  have  been  chopped  in  small  pieces; 
also,  the  chopped  nuts.     Serve  ice-cold  in  sherbet  glasses. 


FROZEN  DESSERTS 

To  Freeze  Sherbet 

Have  the  freezer  thoroughly  scalded  and  cooled.  Crush 
the  ice  into  small  pieces,  and  have  ready  coarse  rock  salt. 
Set  the  can  into  the  tub,  put  in  the  beater,  and  see  that  it 
works  easily.  Pour  in  the  mixture  to  be  frozen,  put  the  lid 
on,  and  adjust  the  crank.  Fill  the  space  between  the  tub 
and  the  can  with  a  mixture  of  crushed  ice  and  salt,  6  parts 
of  ice  to  1  of  salt.     Turn  the  crank  steadily  until  the  mixture 

232 


Desserts 

freezes,  keeping  the  tub  filled  with  ice  and  salt.  See  that 
the  hole  near  the  top  of  the  tub  is  kept  open,  but  do  not 
drain  off  the  water  from  the  bottom. 

When  the  mixture  is  frozen,  remove  the  beater  and  smooth 
on  top.  Put  on  the  cover,  stop  the  hole  with  a  cork;  pack 
more  salt  and  ice  in  the  tub;  cover  the  can  with  several  inches 
of  chipped  ice  and  sprinkle  over  the  top.  Cover  the  tub  with 
a  blanket  and  set  away  for  2  hours  to  ripen.  Uncover,  stir 
with  a  spoon  and  repack  until  w^anted. 

Lemon  Sherbet 

4  lemons  K  lb-  sugar 

1  qt.  water  White  of  1  egg 

Boil  sugar  and  water  together,  cool,  and  add  lemon  juice 
and  freeze.  Add  the  beaten  white  just  as  the  sherbet  begins 
to  freeze. 

Mint  Sherbet 

To  the  sugar  in  above  recipes  add  6  long  stalks  of  mint 
and  crush  with  a  wooden  pestle.  Pour  on  the  cold  water 
and  lemon  juice  and  after  an  hour  strain  and  freeze,  adding 
a  little  green  color  paste  as  the  mixture  is  put  in  the  freezer. 

Grape  Sherbet 

In  the  lemon  sherbet  substitute  grape  juice  for  one-half 
the  water,  boiling  the  water  with  the  sugar  and  adding  the 
grape  juice  and  lemon  juice  when  the  syrup  cools. 

Wine  Sherbet 

2  c.  sugar  1  pt.  cream 

4  lemons  Rind  1  lemon,  chopped  fine 

1  pt.  water  1  pt.  sherry 

1  tb.  Knox  gelatin 

Whenever  cream  or  milk  is  used,  it  is  desirable  to  partly 
freeze  before  adding^^it. 

Grape  Sherbet 

1  qt.  grape  juice  1  pt.  orange  juice 

2  lemons 

White  of  1  egg  beaten  to  stiff  froth  and  stirred  in  after 
the  sherbet  begins  to  freeze,  sweeten  to  taste.  This  sherbet 
is  especially  palatable  and  digestible  for  invalids  and  persons 
convalescing  from  attacks  of  fever. 

16  233 


Desserts 

Coupe  de  Matron 

Make  a  custard  of  the  yolks  of  2  eggs,  1  cup  sugar,  ys 
teaspoon  salt,  and  2>^  cupfuls  milk.  Strain,  and  add  1  cup 
heavy  cream  and  1  tablespoonful  vanilla.  Freeze,  using 
3  parts  finely  crushed  ice  to  1  part  rock  salt.  Cut  marrons  in 
brandy  in  pieces  and  put  in  coupe  glasses,  allowing  Ij/^ 
marrons  and  1  teaspoon  of  the  syrup  to  each  glass.  Fill 
glasses  with  the  vanilla  ice  cream,  molding  slightly  in  center. 
Sprinkle  with  chopped  pecan  or  pistachio  nut  meat,  and 
garnish  with  whipped  cream,  sweetened  and  flavored  with 
vanilla,  forced  through  a  pastry  bag  and  tube,  and  cherries. 

Glace  Bar-le-Duc 

Line  a  melon  mold  with  vanilla  ice  cream.  Fill  center 
with  Bar-le-Duc  mixture,  cover  with  vanilla  ice  cream,  adjust 
cover  over  mold,  pack  in  salt  and  ice,  using  2  parts  finely 
crushed  ice  to  1  part  rock  salt,  and  let  stand  3  hours. 

Bar-le-Duc  Filling 

Beat  1  pint  of  heavy  cream  until  stiff,  and  add  }4  cup 
powdered  sugar,  1  cup  canned  sliced  pineapple,  cut  in  small 
cubes  and  soaked  in  1  tablespoonful  kirsch  1  hour,  1  teaspoon 
vanilla  and  1  jar  red  Bar-le-Duc  currants. 

Pineapple  Sherbet 

4  c.  sugar  1}4  c.  water,  boil  to  thread 

4  eggs  (whites),  whipped  stiff,  4  lemons 

pour    syrup    over    them  1  can  pineapple  or  any 

and  beat  until  stiff  fruit  preferred 

Pour  into  freezer;  chill;  fill  freezer  with  rich  milk,  using 
1  pint  of  whipped  cream  if  desired. 

Mint  Sherbet 

Two  tablespoonfuls  finely  cut  mint  leaves,  1  tablespoon 
Knox  gelatin,  6  lemons,  3  oranges,  1  cup  sugar,  2  cups  boiling 
water,  1  cup  whipped  cream,  1  white  of  egg.  Soak  the  mint 
leaves  and  the  grated  rinds  of  the  lemons  in  the  orange  and 
the  lemon  juices  for  ^  hour.  Boil  the  sugar  and  water 
together  for  5  minutes,  then  pour  at  once  on  the  other  in- 
gredients. When  cold,  strain  into  freezer  in  the  usual  manner 
and  serve  in  slender  sherbet  glasses;  garnish  with  tiny  sprigs 
of  mint. 

234 


Desserts 


Claret  Punch 


Juice  6  lemons  Juice  6  oranges 

2}4  c.  sugar  melted  in  1  c.  1  pt.  claret 

water  5^  c.  Jamaica  rum 

Water  enough  to  make  1  gallon  punch.     Freeze  and  pack 

until  ready  to  serve. 

Biscuit  Glace 

To  make  glace,  beat  the  yolks  of  6  eggs  smooth;  add  1  pint 
of  heavy  cream,  10  ounces  of  granulated  sugar,  4  ounces  of 
pulverized  macaroons,  and  a  tiny  pinch  of  salt.  Turn  the 
mixture  into  a  stew-pan,  then  stir  over  the  fire  until  it  thickens. 
Strain  through  a  wet  cloth;  and  add  a  small  cup  of  orange 
juice,  then  freeze.  When  of  the  consistency  of  ice  cream, 
remove  the  dasher  and  beat  in  a  pint  of  whipped  cream. 
Serve  in  paper  cases,  dusting  the  top  of  each  with  powdered 
macaroons. 

Coffee  Ice  Cream 

Scald  1  pint  of  milk  with  }4  cupful  of  coffee.  Strain 
into  3  slightly  beaten  eggs,  1  cup  sugar  and  J4  teaspoon 
salt.  Return  to  fire  and  cook  until  mixture  coats  the  spoon. 
Add  1  quart  cream,  and  freeze.  Serve  with  marshm allow 
sauce. 

Ginger  Ice  Cream 

Three  pints  thin  cream,  1  cup  sugar,  J4  pound  Canton 
ginger,  J/^  cupful  ginger  syrup,  3  tablespoonfuls  sherry.  Cut 
the  ginger  in  small  pieces,  and  mix  with  the  other  ingredients. 
Freeze,  using  1  part  rock  salt  to  3  parts  finely  crushed  ice. 

Orange  Frappe 

One  quart  water,  2  cupfuls  sugar,  2  cupfuls  orange  juice, 
juice  of  2  lemons.  Make  a  syrup  by  boiling  water  and  sugar 
20  minutes.  Add  the  fruit  juice,  cool,  strain  and  freeze. 
For  the  freezing  use  equal  parts  of  rock  salt  and  finely  crushed 
ice. 

Cherry  Delight 

2  c.  sugar  ^  c.  lemon  juice 

Soak  2  tb.  Knox  gelatin  in  Add  1  pt.  boiling  water 

1  c.  cold  water  Pour  into  freezer 

Stone  1  can  California  cherries,  or  1  pint  fresh  cherries, 
add  well  beaten  whites  of  2  eggs  to  liquid  in  freezer  when 
beginning  to  freeze,  lastly  the  stoned  cherries.  Remove 
dasher  from  the  freezer  and  pack. 

23S 


Desserts 


Bisque  Ice  Cream 


4  c.  cream  ^  c.  sugar 

^  lb.  macaroons  4  kisses 

2  lady-fingers  1  t.  vanilla 

1  t.  caramel  flavoring 

Put  2  cups  of  cream  In  double  boiler  and  add  the  sugar. 
Stir  until  almost  boiling.  Remove  from  fire  and  add  re- 
mainder of  cream.  When  cool  put  into  freezer  and  freeze. 
When  frozen,  add  vanilla,  caramel  and  powdered  cakes. 
Cakes  should  be  stale  and  pressed  through  a  colander.  If 
sherry  is  desired  for  flavoring,  add  5  tablespoonfuls.  Beat 
entire  mixture  until  entirely  smooth  and  freeze  again. 

Peach  Cream 

Two  cupfuls  sugar  boiled  with  1  cupful  water  until  it  is 
a  syrup,  pour  on  whites  of  2  eggs.  When  cold  flavor  with 
^2  cupful  lemon  juice.  Take  1  quart  cream  or  rich  milk  and 
freeze.  When  just  beginning  to  freeze,  add  the  white  of 
egg  mixture,  fold  in  also  1  pint  whipped  cream,  also  1  quart 
peaches  peeled  and  mashed.  Try  this  and  you  will  never 
make  it  any  other  way.     Use  a  little  coloring  if  desired. 

Chocolate  Ice  Cream 

Scald  2  cupfuls  milk,  cream  1}^  cupfuls  sugar  and  yolks 
of  2  eggs,  add  ^  cupful  cold  milk — pour  into  hot  milk.  Melt 
2  squares  of  bitter  chocolate  and  add  to  custard.  Boil  over 
hot  water  for  10  minutes  and  cool.  Add  1  quart  cream,  2 
tablespoonfuls  vanilla  and  freeze. 

Five  Three  Ice 

3  c.  water  3  c.  sugar 

3  bananas  (mashed)  Juice  3  lemons 

Juice  3  oranges  Mix  together  and  freeze 

In  all  kinds  of  sherbets  It  is  well  to  boil  the  water  and 
sugar  together,  but  in  doing  so  it  Is  well  to  put  in  a  little  more 
water  than  the  recipe  calls  for,  to  allow  for  some  boiling  away. 

Marron  Parfait 

Boll  together  1  cupful  sugar  and  J4  cupful  water  5  mm- 
utes.  Pour  slowly,  while  stirring  constantly,  onto  the  well 
beaten  yolks  of  6  eggs,  and  cook  over  water,  stirring  con- 
stantly   until   thick;   then    beat    until    cold.     Add    1    cupful 

236 


Desserts 

marrons  broken  in  small  pieces  and  soaked  in  1  tablespoonful 
rum  2  hours,  1  pint  heavy  cream,  beaten  until  stiff,  2  teaspoon- 
fuls  vanilla,  and  a  few  grains  of  salt.  Turn  into  a  small 
brick  mold,  pack  in  salt  and  ice,  using  2  parts  finely  crushed 
ice  and  1  part  rock  salt,  and  let  stand  3  hours. 

Angel  Parfait 

^  c.  granulated  sugar  2  eggs  (whites) 

J^  c.  boiling  water  1  pt.  double  cream 

1  t.  Burnett's  vanilla 

Boil  the  sugar  and  water  to  the  thread  stage  and  pour  in 
a  fine  stream  over  the  stiffly  beaten  whites.  Beat  until  cold, 
then  very  gently  fold  in  the  stiffly  beaten  cream.  Flavor  and 
pack  in  a  paper-lined  and  oiled  mold.  Have  the  mold  filled  to 
overflowing  to  prevent  salt  from  getting  into  the  parfait. 
Tie  mold  securely  and  pack  in  salt  and  ice  for  3  or  4  hours. 

Frozen  Fruit  Cream 

For  the  frozen  fruit  cream,  cut  in  halves  ^  pound  raisins; 
add  to  1  cupful  orange  juice  and  let  stand  over  night.  Crush 
enough  macaroons  to  make  }4  cup;  add  to  the  raisins.  Whip 
1  pint  cream  very  stiff,  flavor  with  ^  cup  powdered  sugar; 
add  the  macaroons  and  raisins;  pour  into  mold  and  pack 
in  ice  for  5  hours. 

Caramel  Parfait 

}^  c.  caramelized  sugar  3^  c.  water 

Put  granulated  sugar  in  an  iron  skillet  and  allow  to  melt 
until  boiling  point  is  reached,  taking  care  it  does  not  burn. 
Add  water,  boil  again  until  the  syrup  spins  a  thread.  Pour 
over  stiffly  beaten  whites  of  2  eggs.  Fold  into  the  above 
mixture  1  pint  stiffly  whipped  cream.  Add  2  tablespoonfuls 
ground  almonds,  and  flavor  with  1  teaspoonful  vanilla. 
Turn  into  mold  which  has  been  oiled,  and  pack  in  ice  for 
4  hours.     Have  the  ice-pack  1  part  salt  to  2  parts  ice. 

Peach  Mousse 

1  doz.  ripe  peaches  (mashed)  2  lemons 

3  bananas  ^2  c.  sugar 

1^  tb.  Knox  gelatin 

Stir  until  it  begins  to  thicken;  add  J4  cup  crystallized 
cherries  and  lastly  fold  in  beaten  whites  of  2  eggs  and  1  pint 
whipped  cream.  Pour  in  oiled  mold,  cover  tightly,  pack 
in  ice  4  hours.     Serve  with  whipped  cream. 

237 


Desserts 

Chocolate  Parfait 

Melt  2  ounces  of  unsweetened  chocolate  in  ^  cup  of 
water,  add  1  cup  of  sugar  and  boil  until  thick.  Pour  the 
mixture  over  the  yolks  of  4  eggs.  Place  in  double  boiler, 
cook  and  stir  constantly,  until  a  spoon  placed  in  the  mixture 
is  caked.  Stand  in  a  basin  of  water  and  beat  frequently 
until  cold.  Add  1  pint  of  thick,  whipped  cream  and  flavor 
with  1  teaspoonful  of  Burnett's  vanilla.  Serve  in  glasses 
and  place  on  top  of  each,  1  tablespoonful  of  whipped  cream, 
flavored  with  a  little  Burnett's  vanilla. 

Frozen  Eggnog 

Beat  until  they  are  light  the  yolks  of  5  eggs,  and  then 
gradually  beat  in  1  cupful  of  sugar.  Add  a  quart  of  milk,  1  cup 
whiskey  and  a  tablespoonful  of  Burnett's  vanilla,  and  placing 
the  mixture  in  a  freezer,  freeze  it  to  a  very  soft  mush.  Then 
beat  a  cupful  of  heavy  cream  until  it  is  firm,  and  fold  it  into 
the  beaten  whites  of  5  eggs.  Add  to  the  mixture  in  the 
freezer  and  freeze  until  stiff. 

A  quarter  of  a  cupful  of  sherry  may  be  added  in  place  of 
Burnett's  vanilla  if  desired.  Serve  in  tall  glasses  with  a 
little  nutmeg  sprinkled  over  the  top. 

Biscuit  Tortoni 

^  c.  sugar  12  macaroons,  browned 

3  eggs,  well  beaten  Flavoring:  orange,  vanilla 

^  c.  water  or  coffee  or  almond 

1  pt.  heavy  cream,  whipped 

Boil  the  sugar  with  water  or  cofFee  until  it  spins  a  thread; 
mix  with  the  eggs,  beat  until  cool,  add  the  whipped  cream. 
Crumble  half  of  the  browned  macaroons  in  the  bottom  of 
the  mold,  fill  with  the  mixture,  and  sprinkle  the  rest  of  the 
macaroons  over  the  top.  Pack  in  ice  and  salt.  Let  stand 
4  hours. 

Fruit  Sorbet 

3  qts.  strawberries  4  bananas 

4  lemons  3  oranges 
3  c.  sugar  1  egg 

1  c.  cream 

Crush  strawberries  and  bananas,  add  the  juice  of  lemons 
and  oranges,  also  sugar.  Then  add  the  beaten  egg  and 
lastly  the  cream.     Freeze. 

238 


Desserts 


Bisque  Glace 


The  whites  of  the  eggs  used  for  this  dessert  can  be  used 
for  a  cake  to  serve  with  it. 

6  egg  yolks  1  c.  sugar 

1  c.  rich  milk  2  pts.  cream,  whipped 

Burnett's  vanilla 

Make  a  syrup  of  the  sugar  and  ^  cup  of  water,  boiling 
it  until  it  begins  to  thicken.  Beat  egg  yolks  and  add  milk 
slowly,  then  the  syrup,  which  has  been  cooling.  Place  on 
fire  and  boil  until  thick,  remove  from  fire  and  flavor  with 
vanilla.  When  cold  add  the  whipped  cream  and  put  in  a 
mold  packed  in  a  deep  granite  utensil.  Then  pack  w^ith 
ice  and  salt  as  for  ice  cream.  At  intervals  stir  the  mixture 
down  well  from  the  sides  and  beat  it  slightly.  Keep  the  lid 
of  the  mold  on  tight. 

Mint  Sorbet 

4  c.  water  1  c.  sugar 

1  tb.  Knox  gelatin  4  tb.  cold  water 

2  tb.  finely  chopped  fresh  mint  Juice  of  4  lemons 

Make  syrup  of  sugar  and  water,  dissolve  gelatin  in  cold 
water,  combine  the  two  and  add  lemon  juice  and  chopped 
mint.     Freeze. 

Strawberry  Ice 

1  qt.  strawberries  3  pts.  water 

Juice  1  orange  Juice  1  lemon 

^  lb.  sugar 

When  strawberries  are  ripe,  they  may  be  made  the  basis 
of  a  delicious  dessert.  Mash  the  berries  to  a  smooth  paste, 
add  the  rest  of  the  ingredients,  excepting  the  sugar,  and 
allow  to  stand  3  hours,  then  strain  the  juice  over  the  sugar, 
stir  well  and  freeze. 

Tutti  Frutti 

One  pint  of  milk,  1  quart  of  cream,  yolks  of  5  eggs,  beaten 
light,  with  3  cups  of  sugar,  juice  and  grated  peel  of  1  lemon, 
a  glass  of  light  wine,  1  pound  of  crystallized  fruit, 
chopped.  Heat  milk  almost  to  boiling  and  pour  slowly 
over  the  eggs  and  sugar,  beating  all  together;  return  to  fire 
and  boil  10  minutes.  When  cold,  beat  in  the  cream  and  half 
freeze,  before  stirring  In  the  chopped  fruit,  which  beat  in 
with  the  lemon  and  wine;  cover  and  freeze. 

239 


Desserts 


Frozen  Marshmallows 


}^  lb.  marshmallows  Milk  or  cream  to  cover 

}4  pt.  double  cream  Ground  English  walnut  meats 

Cut  marshmallows  in  fourths,  cover  with  milk  or  cream, 
preferably  cream,  soak  3  or  4  hours  and  freeze  in  ice  cream 
freezer.  Do  not  freeze  solid.  Whip  the  cream.  Place 
frozen  marshmallows  in  6  dessert  dishes,  cover  with  whipped 
cream,  and  sprinkle  with  ground  English  walnut  meats. 
Serve  immediately. 

Claret  Punch 

Juice  of  6  lemons,  juice  of  6  oranges,  2^  cupfuls  sugar 
melted  in  1  cupful  water,  1  pint  claret,  ^  teacup  Jamaica 
rum.  Water  enough  to  make  1  gallon  punch.  Freeze  and 
pack  until  ready  to  serve. 

Biscuit  Glace  Sweet  Wafers 

To  make  the  glace,  beat  the  yolks  of  8  eggs  smooth;  add 
1  pint  of  heavy  cream,  10  ounces  of  granulated  sugar,  4  ounces 
of  pulverized  macaroons,  and  a  tiny  pinch  of  salt.  Turn 
the  mixture  into  a  stew-pan,  then  stir  over  the  fire  until  it 
thickens.  Strain  through  a  wet  cloth;  add  a  small  cup  of 
orange  juice,  then  freeze.  When  of  the  consistency  of  ice 
cream,  remove  the  dasher  and  beat  in  a  pint  of  whipped 
cream.  Serve  in  paper  cases,  dusting  the  top  of  each  with 
powdered  macaroons. 


240 


CHAPTER  XXIII 

BEVERAGES 

Coffee 

One  heaping  tablespoonful  coffee,  a  little  white  of  egg,  1 
cupful  boiling  water.  (Allow  this  quantity  to  each  person.) 
Scald  the  coffee  pot;  add  the  coffee,  egg,  and  sufficient  cold 
water  to  moisten.  Mix  well,  add  the  boiling  water  and  cook 
5  minutes.  Then  place  where  it  will  keep  hot,  but  not  cook 
for  15  minutes.  It  is  then  ready  to  serve.  A  pinch  of  salt 
added  greatly  improves  it. 

Tea 

Take  Yi  teaspoonful  of  tea  to  1  cupful  boiling  water.  Put 
the  tea  in  the  pot,  pour  the  boiling  water  upon  it  and  let  stand 
where  it  will  keep  hot  for  5  minutes.     Then  serve. 

Note — The  tea  pot  should  always  be  earthenware  or  china, 
since  tannic  acid  in  the  tea  acts  upon  tin,  forming  tin  and  lead 
salts.  Tannic  acid  in  tea  is  developed  by  boiling,  consequently 
tea  should  never  be  boiled. 

Russian  Tea 

Three  teaspoonfuls  tea,  3  cupfuls  boiling  water,  thin  slices 
of  lemon,  loaf  sugar.  Scald  the  teapot,  which  should  be  of 
earthenware  or  china.  Put  in  the  tea,  and  pour  over  the  boiling 
water.  Let  stand  in  a  warm  place  to  infuse  for  5  minutes. 
Serve  with  a  slice  of  lemon  to  each  cup,  and  sugar  to  taste;  or 
add  lemon  juice  and  sugar  to  taste,  and  garnish  with  candied 
cherries. 

Chocolate 

One  and  one-half  squares  of  chocolate,  4  teaspoonfuls 
sugar,  dash  of  salt,  1  cupful  boiling  water,  3  cupfuls  milk,  J^ 
teaspoonful  vanilla.  Melt  the  chocolate  over  hot  water.  Add 
the  sugar,  salt  and  boiling  water.  When  smooth,  add  the 
heated  milk  and  cook  20  minutes.  Then  beat  with  Dover  egg- 
beater  and  flavor. 

Cocoa 

One  quart  milk,  1  cupful  boiling  water,  4  tablespoonfuls 
prepared  cocoa,  4  tablespoonfuls  sugar.     Scald  the  milk;    mix 

241 


Beverages 

the  cocoa  and  sugar,  add  enough  of  the  hot  water  to  form  a 
thin  paste.  Add  the  remainder  of  the  water  and  boil  1  minute. 
Pour  into  the  scalded  milk,  and  beat  with  an  egg-beater  2 
minutes.  Serve  in  chocolate  cups  with  whipped  cream, 
sweetened  and  flavored  with  vanilla.  Not  as  rich  as  chocolate 
and  a  desirable  substitute  at  5  o'clock  teas. 

Iced  Tea 

Make  a  strong  tea  of  black  oolong,  putting  in  teapot  with 

2  whole  cloves.  When  drawn,  sweeten  to  taste.  When  ready 
to  use,  have  glasses  J4  filled  with  crushed  ice  and  teaspoonful 
lemon  juice  or  mint  leaves.  Add  tea  till  glass  is  ^  full  and 
fill  with  carbonated  water.     Fine  for  afternoon  teas. 

Iced  Tea  Punch 

1  qt.  water  Juice  2  lemons 

3  oranges  Peel  of  oranges 

Mix  with  ^2  cup  sugar  and  let  come  to  a  boil.  Mix  with 
equal  amount  of  strong  tea,  and  let  cool  and  serve  in  punch 
bowl  with  slices  of  pineapple  and  oranges. 

Strawberry  Acid 

Add  5  ounces  tartaric  acid  to  }4  gallon  water,  pour  this  over 
12  pounds  strawberries  in  large  crock  and  let  stand  2  days. 
Third  day  strain  and  to  each  pint  of  clear  juice  add  ^  pint  of 
sugar.     Stir  well  and  bottle,  cork  tightly. 

Grape  Juice 

Wash  and  put  to  boil  10  pounds  of  nearly  ripe  grapes  with 

3  cups  of  water,  simmer  until  the  seed  and  pulp  separate,  and 
then  strain  in  jelly  bag.  Do  not  mash,  as  this  will  cause  juice 
to  become  muddy.  To  each  pint  of  juice  add  )4  cupful  sugar, 
and  boil  and  skim.  In  5  minutes  put  in  bottles  that  have  stood 
in  hot  water,  cook  and  keep  in  cool  dry  place. 

Blackberry  Cordial 

One  quart,  blackberry  juice,  1  pound  sugar,  mace,  ginger, 
allspice,  cloves,  and  cinnamon  to  taste;  boil  and  skim,  when 
cool  add  1  quart  of  brandy  or  good  whiskey  to  every  gallon  of 
juice.     Bottle  and  seal. 

242 


Beverages 


Blackberry  Vinegar 

On  1  gallon  fresh  berries  washed  and  picked,  pour  'jA  gallon 
good  cider  vinegar,  let  stand  24  hours  and  then  strain.  To 
each  pint  of  juice  add  3^  pound  sugar.  Boil  and  skim  for  30 
minutes.  Let  cool,  bottle  and  cork  tightly.  When  used  pour 
y^  glassful  juice,  remainder  of  ice  water.  Very  fine  for  con- 
valescents. 

Pineapple  Lemonade 

One  pint  water,  1  cup  sugar,  1  quart  ice  water,  1  can  grated 
pineapple,  juice  of  3  lemons.  Make  a  syrup  by  boiling  the 
sugar  and  water  10  minutes.  Add  the  pineapple  and  lemon 
juice.  Cool,  strain,  and  add  the  ice  water.  Serve  in  lemonade 
glasses. 

Fruit  Punch 


2  c.  sugar 
1  c.  tea 

1  pt.  strawberry  syrup 

Juice  5  lemons 
1  can  grated  pineapple 


1  c.  water 

Ice  water 
1  qt.  bottle  Apollinaris 

Juice  5  oranges 
}4  pt.  maraschino  cherries 


Make  a  syrup  by  boiling  the  sugar  and  water  for  10  minutes. 
Add  the  tea,  fruit  juices,  pineapple  and  strawberry  syrup. 
Let  stand  30  minutes;  strain,  add  enough  ice  water  to  make 
\}4  gallons  of  liquid,  turn  into  a  large  bowl  over  a  piece  of  ice, 
and  add  the  cherries  and  Apollinaris  water. 

Fruit  Punch 

Four  gallons  of  fruit  punch  will  serve  seventy-five  people 
bountifully.  For  this  quantity  use  the  strained  juice  of  4^ 
dozen  lemons  and  10  oranges,  4  2-pound  cans  of  pineapple  cut 
into  bits,  1  quart  of  maraschino  cherries  and  1  quart  of  grape 
juice.  Add  sufficient  water  to  make  the  desired  measurement, 
and  sweeten  to  taste.  Keep  on  ice  until  serving  time,  then  pour 
over  a  large  lump  of  ice  in  a  punch-bowl,  filling  up  as  required. 


Cafe  Frappe 


1  egg  (white) 
^2  c.  ground  cofFee 


^4  c.  cold  water 
4  c.  boiling  water 
1  c.  sugar 

Beat  white  of  egg  slightly,  add  cold  water,  and  boil  1 
minute;  place  on  back  of  range  10  minutes;  strain,  add  sugar, 
cool,  and  freeze  to  a  mush,  using  equal  parts  ice  and  salt. 
Serve  in  frappe  glasses,  with  whipped  cream,  sweetened  and 
flavored. 

243 


Beverages 

Frozen  Punch 

^2  gal.  tea  ^  doz.  lemons 

1  qt.  ginger  ale  1  can  shredded  pineapple 

3  c.  sugar 

Scald  1  cup  of  tea,  allowing  it  to  stand  5  minutes.  Have 
ready  juice  of  6  lemons,  add  to  tea  when  cold.  Add  ginger  ale 
and  lastly  pineapple.  Stir  well.  Freeze  and  let  stand  well 
packed  for  2  hours  before  serving.  Use  2  parts  finely  crushed 
ice  to  1  of  salt.  Serve  with  a  cherry  on  top  of  each  serving. 
Serves  25. 

Frappe 

A  very  good  formula  for  frappe  is  as  follows:  To  each 
quart  of  water  use  1  pint  of  granulated  sugar,  1  pint  of 
orange  juice,  cool,  strain  and  freeze  to  a  mush.  Serve  in 
frappe  glasses. 

Orange  Frappe 

One  quart  water,  1  pint  sugar,  1  pint  orange  juice,  juice  of 
2  lemons.  Make  a  syrup  by  boiling  the  sugar  and  water  20 
minutes.  Add  the  fruit  juice,  cool,  strain  and  freeze.  For 
the  freezing  use  equal  parts  of  rock  salt  and  finely  crushed  ice. 

Eggnog 

(Without  Brandy) 

Thoroughly  beat  yolks  and  whites  of  fresh  eggs,  beating 
in  2  teaspoonfuls  sugar  in  yolk,  combine  mixtures.  Stir  in 
juice  of  lemon,  add  chipped  ice  and  serve.  Excellent  for 
invalids. 

Eggnog 

Separate  5  eggs.  To  the  well  beaten  whites  add  pinch  salt 
and  4  tablespoonfuls  granulated  sugar,  5  tablespoonfuls  fine 
old  whiskey.  Add  saltspoon  ground  nutmeg,  whip  pint  of 
sweet  cream  and  then  the  whites  of  eggs.  Fold  in  the  cream 
and  lastly  whites,  lifting  the  spoon  over  and  over  from  bottom 
of  bowl.     This  will  serve  eight  people. 


244 


CHAPTER  XXIV 

COCKTAILS,  CANAPES  AND  CHEESE  RELISHES 

Tomato  Cocktail 

Select  small,  smooth  and  very  choice  tomatoes.  Peel  and 
chill  them.  When  about  ready  to  serve  cut  them  in  quarters 
through  the  stem  and  blossom  ends,  then  cut  these  quarters 
into  halves  or  thirds  to  make  pieces  of  a  size  suitable  for  eating. 
Dispose  these  on  crisp  lettuce  hearts;  set  on  a  plate  around  a 
tall  stemmed  glass.  Rub  a  bowl  with  a  clove  of  garlic,  cut  in 
halves;  add  2  tablespoonfuls  of  tomato  catsup,  1  tablespoonful 
mushroom  catsup,  1  tablespoonful  lemon  juice,  y^  teaspoon 
Worcestershire  sauce  and  2  or  3  drops  of  tabasco  sauce  or  % 
teaspoon  of  paprika;  mix  and  turn  into  a  tall  glass. 

Pepper  Cocktail 

Select  medium-sized  green  peppers;  cut  ofF  the  stem  end 
and  remove  the  seeds.  Throw  the  peppers  into  ice  water  until 
crisp.  Skin  3  tomatoes  and  cut  them  into  dice,  add  to  the 
diced  tomato  1  teaspoonful  of  Worcestershire  sauce,  1  tea- 
spoonful  of  soy,  the  strained  juice  of  yi  lemon,  a  pinch  of  cel- 
ery seed.  At  serving  time,  stand  the  pepper  in  small  saucers 
of  cracked  ice.  Fill  each  half  full  with  the  tomato  mixture, 
put  on  the  top  and  serve. 

Crab- Meat  Cocktail 

1  can  crab-meat,  4  tablespoonfuls  each  of  Worcestershire 
sauce,  grated  horse-radish,  tomato  catsup,  tarragon  vinegar 
and  lemon  juice,  2  teaspoonfuls  each  of  salt  and  tabasco  sauce, 
1  green  pepper  finely  chopped;  chill  thoroughly  and  serve  in 
cocktail  glasses,  pepper  shells  or  tomato  cups. 

Anchovy  and  Cheese  Canapes 

Make  circles  of  toast  and  divide  into  quarters  by  putting 
riced  egg,  white  in  one  and  yolk  in  the  opposite,  and  in  the 
other  two  a  relish  made  by  mixing  ^  cup  of  grated  cheese, 
tablespoonful  of  creamed  butter,  J^  teaspoonful  paprika,  and 
teaspoonful  anchovy  paste.  Over  all  sprinkle  a  French 
dressing  made  with  a  good  deal  of  pepper,  and  put  ]/2  pimola 
in  the  center  of  each  circle  point  down. 

245 


Cocktails,  Canapes  and  Cheese  Relishes 

Caviar  Canapes 

To  prepare  the  canapes,  mix  the  juice  of  }4  lemon  with 
the  same  quantity  of  olive  oil,  then  beat  this  mixture  and  J4 
box  of  Russian  caviar  to  a  paste  of  the  consistency  to  spread. 
Cut  rounds  of  bread  and  toast  them,  spread  each  with  the 
paste,  and  arrange  for  serving. 

Sardine  Canapes 

Prepare  thin  (^-inch)  slices  of  light  browned  toast.  Trim 
the  edges  so  they  are  uniform  in  size  and  shape.  Spread  with 
sardine  butter,  garnish  with  thin  slices  of  stuffed  olives,  and 
bits  of  hard-cooked  eggs. 

Anchovy  Canapes 

Cut  the  toast  into  circles,  spread  with  anchovy  butter, 
prepare  in  same  manner  as  sardine  butter,  substituting  an- 
chovies for  sardines.  Garnish  with  chopped  egg,  whites  and 
yolks  separate.  Separate  circles  into  fourths  with  strips  of 
olives  or  pimentos  and  on  each  fourth,  place  alternating  piles 
of  yolks  and  whites  of  eggs. 

Anchovy  and  Egg  Canapes 

Roll  trimmings  of  puff  paste,  left  after  cutting  out  patties 
or  a  vol-au-vent,  to  a  little  less  than  )4  irich  in  thickness  and 
stamp  out  with  cutter  dipped  in  boiling  water,  into  diamond 
or  other  shapes.  Chill  and  bake  till  done.  Beat  ^  cup  butter 
to  a  cream  and  gradually  beat  in  enough  anchovy  paste  to  tint 
and  flavor  as  desired.  When  the  puff  paste  shapes  are  chilled, 
spread  slightly  with  the  paste,  set  a  slice  of  hard  cooked  egg  in 
the  center  of  each  and  pipe  paste  on  the  edge  of  the  crust; 
finish  with  a  figure,  cut  from  a  slice  of  truflfle  or  pickled  beets  at 
the  center  of  the  egg,  and  fine  chopped  truffle  or  beet  in  the 
open  spaces.  If  truffle  be  used  drop  the  slices  of  egg  in  French 
dressing  before  setting  them  in  place.     Serve  as  first  course. 

Sardine  Butter 

Remove  the  bones,  fins  and  tails  from  the  sardines,  rub  to 
a  paste  with  a  small  quantity  of  olive  oil.  Season  well  with 
salt,  pepper,  cayenne  and  lemon  juice. 

246 


Cocktails,  Canapes  and  Cheese  Relishes 
CHEESE  RELISHES 
Cheese  Straws 

5  cts.  grated  cheese  1  egg  (yolk) 

2  tb.  water  Cayenne  and  salt  to  taste 

Small  amount  of  flour.  Work  together  and  roll  out,  cut  in 
strips.     Set  away  to  chill.     Plait  strips  and  bake  in  slow  oven. 

Olives  and  Cheese 

Neufchatel  cheese,  cream,  cayenne  and  salt  creamed  into 
consistency  of  icing.  Fill  paper  tubes.  Take  the  pepper 
stuffing  out  of  stuffed  olives,  and  refill  with  cheese.  Arrange 
on  round  toast  and  garnish  with  roses  of  cheese. 

Neufchatel  Cheese  Balls 

Mix  1  Neufchatel  cheese  with  a  little  salt  and  pepper  and 
enough  cold  milk  to  soften.  Divide  into  10  portions  and  roll 
in  finely  chopped  parsley.  Place  in  the  center  of  a  platter  and 
the  crackers  around.     Serve  with  the  salad. 


247 


CHAPTER  XXV 

CONDIMENTS 

There  are  certain  kinds  of  foods  which  have  little  or  no 
value  as  nutrition  or  to  sustain  the  body,  such  as  is  possessed 
by  meats,  and  vegetables;  and  yet  they  are  very  important 
and  very  necessary  for  existence. 

Chief  among  such  foods  are  the  condiments,  salt,  pepper, 
mustard,  vinegar,  spices,  and  the  like;  these  have  flavors 
which  suggest  pleasures  in  eating  and  therefore  excite  the 
excretion  of  the  digestive  juices.  If  one  ate  pork  and  boiled 
potatoes  always,  eating  would  be  a  tiresome  affair,  without 
any  relish,  and  such  a  sameness  of  food  would  fail  to  excite 
the  subsequent  digestion  merely  from  monotony  of  the 
affair. 

Indeed,  the  human  body  craves  salt  and  could  not  get 
along  any  length  of  time  without  it.  While  the  exact  value 
of  salt  in  the  human  body  is  not  known,  a  certain  amount  of 
it  must  be  produced.  The  wild  tribes  of  Africa,  when  away 
from  salt  deposits,  consider  it  their  most  valuable  possession, 
and  will  go  to  any  length  to  procure  it.  In  the  old  Roman 
civilization  the  salt  cellar  had  a  most  dignified  place  on  the 
table;  and  when  one  dined  with  his  neighbor  and  ate  salt, 
this  was  symbolic  of  undying  friendship.  It  is  well  known 
that  animals  go  great  distances  to  "salt  licks"  for  their  sup- 
plies of  this  necessary  condiment;  their  bodies  crave  it  and 
they  must  have  it,  even  though  they  put  themselves  in 
danger  of  the  sportsman. 

It  is  an  old  saying  that  hunger  is  a  good  sauce;  but  the 
condiments  are  by  no  means  to  be  neglected,  if  food  is  to  be 
relished.  The  various  flavoring  seeds  and  leaves,  truffles, 
mushrooms  and  the  like,  even  if  they  have  no  food  value, 
render  food  more  palatable.  Every  housewife  should  get 
acquainted  with  a  variety  of  them. 

Chowchow 

One  gallon  green  tomatoes  after  they  are  ground;  ^ 
gallon  ground  onions;  green  peppers  according  to  taste. 
Let  stand  in  salt  brine  over  night;  squeeze  the  brine  out 
thoroughly.     Cover  with  1  quart  vinegar  and  2  quarts  water. 

248 


Condiments 

Bring  to  a  scald.  Drain  this  off;  return  to  the  stove,  with 
3  pints  vinegar,  3  pounds  sugar,  1  cup  horse-radish,  and 
spice  to  taste.     Cook  until  thoroughly  done.     Seal  up. 

Virginia  Chowchow 

3  heads  cabbage  1}4  doz.  red  and  green  peppers 
}4  pk.  ripe  tomatoes  (seed  removed) 

^  pk.  green  tomatoes  2  lbs.  brown  sugar 

1)4  doz.  onions  1  teacup  grated  horse-radish 

1  tb.  black  pepper  seed  1  oz.  turmeric 

1  oz.  celery  seed  1  tb.  ground  mustard 

Chop  all  fine;  add  1  pint  of  fine  salt  and  let  stand  1  hour 

over  night;  then  put  in  a  wire  basket  to  drain,  after  which 

put  in  a  kettle  with  spice;  cover  with  vinegar  and  boil  a  few 

minutes. 

Tomato  Catsup 

1  pk.  tomatoes  (ripe)  X  oz.  cayenne 

4  large  onions,  chopped  fine  1  oz.  mustard 

J/2  lb.  salt  6  cloves  of  garlic 

y&  lb.  black  pepper  1  lb.  brown  sugar 

}4  doz.  cloves  1  qt.  vinegar 

2  oz.  allspice  6  peach  leaves 

Boil  for  about  1^  hours,  stir  constantly  to  prevent 
burning;  keeps  indefinitely. 

Cold  Catsup 

Two  cups  celery  chopped  fine,  1  peck  ripe  tomatoes 
chopped  fine  and  drained  in  colander,  6  onions  chopped  fine, 
3  green  peppers  chopped,  2  pounds  brown  sugar,  ^4  cup  salt, 
2  ounces  white  mustard  seed,  3  pints  vinegar.  Mix  all 
together  and  put  in  sealed  jars  uncooked. 

Mushroom  Catsup 

1  pt.  mushroom  liquor  J4  oz.  green  ginger  root 

)4  oz.  peppercorns  )4  oz.  cloves 
}i  oz.  allspice  1  blade  mace 

Salt 

Wash  and  look  over  the  mushrooms  carefully;  put  them 
in  an  earthen  jar  with  alternate  layers  of  salt.  Let  stand  for 
24  hours  in  a  comparatively  warm  place;  put  through  a  fruit 
press  and  add  the  ginger  root  cut  into  small  pieces.  Measure 
the  liquor;  add  peppercorns  and  simmer  for  40  minutes;  then 
add  the  spices  and  boil  for  IS  minutes.  Take  from  the  fire 
and  cool.     Strain  through  a  cloth;  bottle  and  seal. 

17  249 


Condiments 


India  Relish 


}4  lb.  sour  apples  J/2  lb.  ripe  tomatoes 

}4  lb.  raisins  J/2  lb.  salt 

^2  lb.  brown  sugar  X  oz.  powdered  ginger 

^  oz.  cayenne  pepper  2  oz.  garlic 

2  oz.  shallots  3  qts.  vinegar 

1  qt.  lemon  juice 

Stone  the  raisins,  pare,  core  and  chop  the  apples  fine, 
then  add  the  rest  of  the  ingredients.  Mix  well  together; 
put  in  a  closely  covered  jar;  keep  in  a  warm  place  and  stir 
daily  for  a  month.     Strain  and  put  away  in  bottles  for  use. 

India  Relish 

Put  1}4  cupfuls  of  salt  on  1  peck  of  chopped  green 
tomatoes  and  let  stand  over  night.  In  the  morning  drain 
and  add  1  medium  cabbage,  chopped  fine,  and  boil  all  in 
3  quarts  of  vinegar  for  }^  hour.  Then  add  6  onions,  3  red 
peppers,  2  green  peppers,  chopped  fine,  6  cupfuls  sugar, 
2  tablespoonfuls  celery  seed,  2  of  mustard  seed  and  1  table- 
spoonful  stick  cinnamon  and  whole  cloves  (in  a  bag).  Cook 
all  until  the  onions  are  perfectly  soft. 

Mexican  Relish 

Use  4  green  tomatoes,  2  green  peppers,  1  onion,  a  very 
small  bit  of  horse-radish;  chop  the  above  together  or  grind 
fine.  Place  this  in  a  jar  and  cover  with  boiling  vinegar,  to 
which  has  been  added  a  teaspoon  of  salt  and  2  tablespoonfuls 
chili  powder  and  1  tablespoonful  mustard.  The  chili  powder 
should  be  boiled  in  the  vinegar  for  at  least  10  minutes  before 
seasoning  is  added.  This  is  a  delightful  relish  served  with  all 
meat  dishes. 

Corn  Relish 

Chop  1  head  cabbage,  sprinkle  with  salt  and  let  stand 
1  hour.  Boil  12  small  ears  of  corn  and  cut  the  corn  from  the 
cob.  To  the  corn  add  4  large  onions,  1  large  or  2  small 
red  peppers,  and  chop  all  together,  add  chopped  cabbage 
and  cover  with  a  dressing  made  of  1^  quarts  vinegar,  1 
tablespoonful  mustard,  2  teaspoonfuls  salt,  1  tablespoonful 
celery  seed,  1  cupful  sugar.  Let  all  come  to  a  boil;  then  add 
1  tablespoonful  flour  and  1  small  teaspoon  turmeric  mixed 
together.     Cook  a  few  minutes. 

250 


Condiments 


Jellied  Cucumber  Relish 

Make  a  jelly  of  1  long  cucumber,  1  pint  of  water,  ^2  cupful 
of  vinegar,  2  tablespoonfuls  of  sugar,  }4  teaspoonful  of  salt, 
1  slice  of  onion,  and  1  tablespoonful  of  granulated  gelatin. 
Strain  into  decorated  molds  and  when  stiff  serve  with  the  fish 


course. 


Chili  Sauce 


1  pk.  tomatoes  5  tb.  salt 

12  good-sized  onions  2  tb.  cinnamon 

8  large  green  peppers  1  tb.  allspice 

6  peppers  (hot)  1  tb.  pepper 

6  c.  vinegar  1  c.  sugar 

Saltspoon  salt 

Boil  until  thick.     Bottle  and  seal. 

Red  Pepper  Sauce 

100  small  red  peppers  }4  oz.  allspice 

50  bell  red  peppers  1  tb.  ground  ginger 

24  white  onions  1  t.  salt 

24  whole  cloves  Handful  of  garlic 

Boil  all  ingredients  in  ^  gallon  water  and  1  gallon  vinegar 
until  peppers  are  soft  enough  to  pass  through  sieve.  After- 
wards add  2  tablespoonfuls  salt  and  bottle  cold. 

Stuffed  Green  Peppers 

Select  uniform  sized  green  peppers.  Remove  seed  and 
lay  in  strong  salt  brine  10  days.  Soak  in  clear  water  24 
hours.  Put  in  a  jar  and  scald  with  vinegar  and  water,  half 
and  half,  with  a  small  piece  of  alum  for  3  days  in  succession. 
Make  a  stuffing  of  1  pound  cabbage,  }4  pound  each  horse- 
radish, ground  ginger  and  ground  mustard;  1  ounce  each  of 
mace,  cloves  and  cinnamon.  Fill  them;  boil  strong  vinegar 
and  put  over  them  hot. 

Sweet  Peppers 

Large  sweet  bell  peppers:  cut  one  side  and  take  out  seed 
and  place  in  salt  water  for  24  hours.  Fill  with  sweet  chopped 
pickle  or  chowchow.  Put  side  back  by  fastening  with  tooth- 
pick, scald  in  sweet  spiced  vinegar.  Put  in  stone  jar  and 
cover  with  spiced  vinegar. 

251 


Condiments 


Pickled  Cucumbers 


100  small  cucumbers  1  tb.  mustard  seed 

1  pt.  salt  1  tb.  whole  allspice 

Alum  size  of  a  nutmeg  1  root  horse-radish 

Boiling  water  2  small  red  peppers 

Boiling  vinegar 

Wash  and  dry  the  cucumbers  and  put  them  in  a  large  stone 
jar;  add  salt  and  alum  and  cover  well  with  boiling  water. 
Cover  the  jar  tightly  and  let  stand  for  24  hours;  remove  the 
cucumbers;  dry  them  and  place  them  in  another  jar  in  layers 
alternately  with  the  spices  and  grated  horse-radish.  Have  the 
jar  about  ^  full  of  cucumbers  and  pour  over  them  sufficient 
boiling  vinegar  to  fill  the  jar.  When  cold,  cover  closely  and 
stand  away. 

Cucumber  Pickles 

To  1  gallon  of  good  vinegar  add  1  cupful  of  salt  and  1 
cupful  of  ground  mustard.  Each  day  add  freshly  picked 
cucumbers  and  stir  with  wooden  spoon.  This  will  be  ready  for 
use  in  10  days  if  the  cucumbers  are  very  young. 

Green  Cucumber  Pickles 

Get  small  ones  of  uniform  size.  Place  in  stone  jar.  Pour 
boiling  water  to  cover.  Put  in  a  large  handful  of  salt.  Let 
stand  over  night.  Drain  off  in  the  morning.  Pour  on  more 
boiling  water  and  same  quantity  of  salt.  Let  stand  until 
next  morning.  Drain  off  the  water;  wash  the  pickles  in 
clean  water;  dry  with  a  towel.  Put  in  a  crock  and  pour  on 
boiling  cider  vinegar.  Then  put  in  small  horse-radish  roots. 
These  pickles  will  keep  in  a  common  stone  jar  all  the  winter. 

Dill  Pickles 

Fill  a  quart  jar  with  pickles  about  the  size  of  a  finger; 
between  the  pickles  put  a  piece  of  dill,  or  more  if  desired. 
When  the  jar  is  filled  add  a  level  tablespoonful  salt.  Pour 
in  cold  water;  put  dill  on  top  of  pickles  and  seal  air-tight  as 
for  canned  fruit.  Place  the  jars  in  the  sun  each  day  until 
the  water  gets  cloudy;  when  the  water  looks  clear  again,  the 
pickles  are  ready  for  use.  A  few  whole  peppers,  a  very  little 
piece  of  bay  leaf,  a  small  piece  of  fresh  red  pepper  may  be 
added.  These  pickles  will  keep  for  a  year,  in  a  cool,  dry 
place.  If  a  2-quart  jar  is  used  2  level  tablespoonfuls  of 
salt  are  required. 

252 


Condiments 
Mixed  Pickles 

2  qts,  green  tomatoes  1  large,  ripe  cucumber 

2  qts.  ripe  tomatoes  2  bunches  of  celery 

3  green  peppers  3  large  onions 

1  small  cabbage 

Chop  all  together.  Cover  with  J^  cupful  salt  and  let  It 
stand  over  night.  Drain  off  all  liquid  in  the  morning.  Add  3 
pints  of  vinegar,  2  pounds  of  brown  sugar  and  2  tablespoonfuls 
mustard.     Cook  for  1  hour  and  seal. 

Spanish  Pickle 

One  dozen  cucumbers,  4  heads  cabbage,  1  peck  green 
tomatoes,  1  dozen  onions,  3  ounces  white  mustard  seeds, 
1  ounce  celery  seed,  1  cup  mustard,  2]/2  pounds  brown  sugar. 
Let  the  cucumbers  stand  for  3  days  in  lime  water  that  will 
float  an  egg.  Slice  the  onions  and  chop  the  cabbage  and 
tomatoes  1  day  before  making,  and  sprinkle  with  salt  in  the 
proportion  of  }4  pint  to  1  peck.  When  ready  to  make, 
squeeze  brine  out  of  cucumbers,  wipe  and  cut  in  slices,  let 
all  simmer  in  a  kettle  ^  hour. 

Piccalilli  Pickles 

Take  1  peck  of  green  tomatoes,  4  peppers  and  12  onions, 
chop  fine  and  drain  through  cheesecloth.     Add: 

1  10-cent  package  of  pickling  1  tb.  ground  mustard 

spice  4  c.  sugar 

^  c.  salt 

Cover  with  cold  vinegar  (about  2  quarts).  Boil  slowly  for 
nearly  2  hours. 

Japanese  Pickles 

9  lbs.  Japanese  plums  J^  oz.  ginger  root 

2  qts.  vinegar  ^  oz.  cinnamon 
6  lbs.  sugar  )4  oz.  allspice 

}4  oz.  cloves 

Put  spices  in  muslin  bag,  boil  with  vinegar  and  sugar, 
pour  over  plums.  Repeat  four  mornings.  Last  time  boil 
fruit. 

253 


Condiments 


Peach  Pickle 


9  lbs.  fruit  3  lbs.  sugar 

1  qt.  vinegar  1  oz.  cloves 

1  oz.  cinnamon 

Boil  sugar  and  spice  in  vinegar  10  minutes.  Four  over 
fruit  and  let  stand  24  hours.  Second  morning,  boil  peaches 
in  vinegar  until  tender  and  remove  to  jars.  Let  vinegar 
boil  until  syrup  and  pour  over  fruit,  lay  in  stick  cinnamon 
and  whole  cloves,  seal  and  put  away  in  dark  closet. 

Sweet  Pickled  Peaches 

Seven  pounds  peaches,  3^  pounds  sugar,  1  quart  vinegar, 

2  ounces  cloves,  2  ounces  stick  cinnamon;  pare  the  peaches 
and  stick  1  or  2  cloves  in  each  one.  Boil  the  sugar  and 
vinegar  and  cinnamon  5  minutes,  then  add  the  rest  of  the 
spice  and  the  peaches;  when  the  peaches  are  thoroughly  done 
take  them  out;  boil  the  syrup,  reducing  it  to  nearly  half, 
and  pour  over  the  peaches. 

Sweet  Tomato  Pickle 

Use  1  gallon  of  tomatoes.  After  they  are  sliced  salt  and 
drain  over  night  in  a  colander.  Add  1  quart  of  good  vinegar, 
1  pound  of  brown  sugar,  1  heaping  tablespoonful  of  all  kinds 
of  spices,  and  the  same  of  mustard  and  1  teaspoonful  cayenne 
pepper.     Boil  until  tender. 

Sliced  Green  Tomato  Pickle 

6  lbs.  green  tomatoes,  sliced  1  t.  each  of  cinnamon,  cloves 
2  lbs.  sliced  skinned  onions  and  allspice 

12  large  bell  peppers,  sliced  4  lbs., sugar 

1  t.  mace  1  tb.  salt 

Let  tomatoes,  peppers  and  onions  stand  all  night  in  salt 
sprinkled  in  layers,  next  morning  drain  and  let  stand  in  cold 
water  1  hour.  Put  in  preserving  kettle  and  cover  with  vin- 
egar, put  sugar  and  spices  in  and  cook  until  tomatoes  are 
tender.     Put  in  glass  jars  and  seal. 

Chopped  Tomato  Pickle 

One  peck  green  tomatoes,   1   dozen  onions,  6  green  and 

3  red  peppers,  chop  and  salt  down  with  1  pint  salt  for  12 
hours,  then  wash  in  cold  water  and  drain  until  the  salt  is  all 
out;  put  in  a  kettle  with  vinegar  enough  to  cover,  scald,  pour 

254 


Condiments 

off  vinegar,  and  add  fresh  vinegar  with  a  tablespoonful  each 
of  mustard,  allspice,  mace,  cinnamon,  celery  seed,  ginger, 
horse-radish,  and  enough  sugar  to  take  the  sharp  taste  off; 
add  a  quart  of  fresh  vinegar. 

Sliced  Tomato  Sweet  Pickle 

1  pk.  tomatoes  4  lbs.  brown  sugar 

6  onions  2  heaping  tb.  mixed  whole 

1  qt.  vinegar  spices 

1  lb.  turmeric 

Put  vinegar,  sugar  and  spices  on  to  boil  together.  When 
boiling  point  is  reached,  add  the  prepared  tomatoes  and 
onions  and  cook  until  they  are  tender.  To  prepare  tomatoes 
and  onions,  slice,  sprinkle  with  salt  and  let  stand  over  night 
in  an  earthen  dish  or  stone  crock  with  a  weight  on  top  to  aid 
in  removing  juice.  In  the  morning,  drain,  scald  in  water 
to  which  some  vinegar  has  been  added,  and  drain  again. 

Watermelon  Pickle 

Ten  pounds  of  melon  rinds,  6  pounds  sugar,  3  pints  of 
vinegar,  }4  ounce  cloves,  1  ounce  cinnamon.  Make  a  syrup 
of  these  ingredients  and  pour  boiling  over  the  rinds,  and  let 
it  remain  until  next  day.  Then  pour  it  oflF  and  boil  again, 
and  again  pour  over  the  rind.     Repeat  for  3  days. 

Watermelon  Sweet  Pickle 

5  lbs.  fruit  3  lbs.  sugar 

1  pt.  vinegar 

Boil  the  fruit  in  clear  water  until  tender;  drain,  put  into 
the  vinegar  and  sugar.  Cook  until  well  flavored.  Use  all 
kinds  of  spice  put  in  a  thin  cloth. 

Pickled  Cantaloup 

Place  over  cantaloups  enough  vinegar  to  cover  and  let 
stand  36  hours.  Measure  the  vinegar  and  to  every  pint 
allow  1  pound  brown  sugar.  Boil  the  vinegar  ^  hour, 
keeping  it  well  covered  and  skimmed,  then  add  the  cantaloups 
and  boil  until  done.  Remove  the  cantaloups  and  fill  with 
equal  portions  of  crystallized  fruit.  Cut  the  fruit  fine  and 
pour  sherry  wine  over  it.  Let  it  stand  12  hours,  add  cinna- 
mon and  nutmeg  to  taste.  After  filling,  tie  securely  in 
cheesecloth.  Place  the  cantaloups  in  a  stone  jar.  Boil  the 
syrup  until  thick  and  pour  over  them,  adding  stick  cinnamon 
and  spice  cloves. 

255 


Condiments 

Cantaloup  Sweet  Pickle 

Take  nearly  ripe  cantaloups,  slice  and  pare,  and  let  stand 
over  night  in  vinegar.  Next  morning  put  fruit  on  to  boil, 
adding  a  pint  of  sugar  to  one  of  vinegar.  Season  with  cinna- 
mon and  cloves  and  let  cook  1}4  hours.  Take  ofF  and  place 
in  a  stone  jar,  and  for  three  mornings  heat  the  vinegar  and 
pour  over  the  pickle. 

Sweet  Pickle  for  Corning  Beef 

2  gal.  water,  lukewarm  !}{  lbs.  brown  sugar 

2  lbs.  rock  salt  1  oz.  saltpeter 

This  is  for  25  pounds  of  meat:  mix  and  let  stand  for  24 
hours,  stirring  frequently,  so  that  it  may  be  thoroughly 
dissolved  before  putting  in  the  meat.  This  will  keep  all 
winter,  and  is  not  too  salt  for  slicing  and  frying. 

Pickled  Beets  and  Carrots 

Boil  the  beets  until  tender;  remove  the  skins,  slice  while 
hot;  cover  with  hot,  spiced  vinegar  that  has  been  well  sweet- 
ened.    Carrot  pickles  are  made  in  the  same  way. 

Ginger  Pears 

To  8  pounds  of  peeled  and  diced  pears,  add  8  pounds  of 
sugar  and  ^  pound  of  candied  ginger,  cut  fine.  Boil  slowly 
l}4  hours.  Then  add  4  lemons  that  have  been  cooked  in 
water  until  soft  and  chopped  fine.     Boil  }4  hour  longer. 

Apple  Ginger 

Boil  to  a  syrup  3  ounces  of  ginger,  3  pounds  of  sugar,  the 
juice  and  half  the  rind  of  a  lemon  and  1^  pints  of  water;  take 
out  the  rind  and  add  3  pounds  of  apples — pared,  cored  and 
cut  into  irregular  strips  to  imitate  ginger;  boil  50  or  60  minutes. 
They  should  not  break  and  should  be  soft  and  clear. 

After  this,  boil  the  syrup  for  5  minutes,  removing  with  a 
skimmer  any  scum  which  rises  to  the  top.  Add  to  the  syrup 
the  chopped  lemons  and  the  grated  rind;  boil  for  30  minutes. 

Ginger  Apple  Conserve 

Peel,  core  and  slice  tart  apples,  laying  the  fruit  in  cold 
water  as  it  is  prepared.    Weigh  |^  pound  of  sugar  and  1  ounce 

256 


Condiments 

of  green  ginger  root,  for  every  pound  of  fruit.  Allow  1  cup  of 
water  to  every  pound  of  sugar,  make  a  syrup  of  these  and 
cook  the  ginger  in  this  for  15  minutes.  The  ginger  may  either 
be  scraped  and  minced  or  put  into  a  bag  of  fine  net  and  laid 
in  the  syrup.  Stew  the  apples  until  tender,  in  just  enough 
water  to  cover  them.  Lift  from  the  water  and  lay  in  ginger 
syrup  and  bring  to  a  boil. 

Guava  Jelly 

Pick  over,  wash  and  pare  guavas.  Slice  fruit  and  put 
over  to  boil  with  just  enough  water  to  cover.  Simmer  until 
fruit  is  soft  and  seed  drop  from  the  pulp.  Strain  over  night 
through  jelly  bag.  In  the  morning  measure  and  add  the 
juice  of  1  lime  to  each  quart  of  juice.  Boil  rapidly  until 
juice  has  boiled  down  about  one-fourth,  which  can  be  told 
by  the  lowering  ring  on  the  inside  of  the  kettle.  Then  add 
sugar,  1  cup  for  each  cup  of  juice,  and  boil  until  it  drops  thick 
from  the  spoon  and  is  ready  to  jell. 

Crab  Apple  Jelly 

Wash  and  quarter  large  crabs,  but  do  not  core.  Cover 
to  the  depth  of  an  inch  or  2  with  cold  water.  Cook  to  a  mush. 
Pour  into  a  coarse  cotton  bag  or  strainer,  and  when  cool 
enough  press  or  squeeze  hard  to  extract  juice.  Allow  juice 
to  drip  without  forcing  strain.     Allow  the  strained  juice  of 

4  lemons  to  a  peck  of  apples  and  ^  pound  of  sugar  to  each 
pint  of  juice.  Boil  the  juice  from  10  to  20  minutes;  while 
boiling  sift  in  the  sugar  slowly,  stirring  constantly,  and  boil 

5  minutes  longer,  or  until  ready  to  jell. 

Quince  Jelly 

This  recipe  will  answer  for  crab  apples,  quinces  or  ordinary 
apples.  Remove  the  cores  and  seeds,  and  without  paring  cut 
the  fruit  into  strips;  put  it  into  a  porcelain  lined  kettle, 
cover  with  cold  water,  allowing  to  each  pound  of  fruit  1 
quart  of  water.  Cover  the  kettle;  boil  for  20  minutes;  drain 
carefully  from  the  pulp  and  strain  through  a  cloth.  Put 
the  juice  back  in  the  kettle,  boil  hard  for  15  minutes;  add 
one  half  the  quantity  of  sugar;  stir  until  dissolved,  and  if 
you  have  been  careful  and  the  fruit  is  just  right,  jelly  may 
be  formed  at  once.  Begin  testing  by  putting  a  teaspoonful 
in  a  saucer  and  setting  it  on  the  ice,  and  test  every  few  minutes 

257 


Condiments 

until  it  does  jell,  when  it  must  be  set  off  the  fire  at  once. 
No  definite  time  for  boiling  can  be  set,  for  so  much  depends 
upon  the  fruit  used.  If  it  boils  too  long  it  will  be  ropy  or  sticky. 
In  measuring  the  liquid  before  putting  it  over  the  fire  it  is  well 
to  measure  half  the  quantity  of  sugar  at  once,  so  that  there 
can  be  no  mistake. 

Quince  Honey 

One  cup  of  grated  quince;  2  cups  sugar;  2  cups  hot  water; 
Dissolve  sugar  in  water.  Add  quince.  Boil,  and  stir  for  15 
minutes. 

Currant  Jam 

Pick  from  stems  and  wash  thoroughly.  Put  into  a  pre- 
serving kettle,  and  boil  15  or  20  minutes,  stirring  often,  and 
skimming  off  any  scums  that  may  arise.  Then  add  sugar 
in  the  proportion  of  ^  pound  of  sugar  to  1  pound  of  fruit, 
or  1  coffee  cup  of  sugar  to  1  pint  of  mashed  fruit.  Boil 
30  minutes  longer,  stirring  almost  constantly.  When  done, 
pour  into  glasses  or  jars,  and  seal  or  cover  like  jelly. 

Rhubarb  Jam 

To  6  pounds  rhubarb  add  6  pounds  of  sugar  and  6  lemons. 
Cut  the  rhubarb  in  small  pieces.  Slice  the  lemons  very  thin. 
Put  the  fruit  in  a  large  bowl  and  cover  with  the  sugar,  letting 
it  stand  for  24  hours.  Boil  for  about  ^  hour.  Do  not  stir 
more  than  is  necessary,  as  its  great  beauty  is  not  being  broken 
up.     Put  in  glasses  and  cover  with  paper. 

Pear  and  Quince  Preserves 

Take  pears  and  quinces  in  the  proportion  of  two-thirds 
pear  to  one-third  quince.  Pare,  cut  in  halves,  core  and 
weigh.  If  the  fruit  is  hard,  boil  in  water  until  tender  and  use 
water  for  the  syrup;  allow  ^  pound  of  sugar  to  each  pound 
of  fruit;  boil  a  few  moments  until  the  sugar  is  thoroughly 
dissolved;  skim,  and  cool  until  the  syrup  is  lukewarm.  Then 
add  the  fruit  and  boil  gently  until  the  syrup  has  penetrated 
and  the  fruit  looks  clear;  some  pieces  will  cook  before  the 
rest  and  must  be  removed  first.  When  all  are  done,  take 
out,  boil  down  the  syrup  a  little  and  pour  over  the  fruit. 
Put  in  jars  tightly  covered. 

258 


Condiments 

Strawberry  Preserves  (Sun  Cured) 

Weigh  the  berries  after  washing  them,  then  put  in  same 
number  of  pounds  of  sugar  that  you  have  berries.  Let  it 
set  over  night;  next  morning  put  the  berries  on  the  stove  and 
let  them  boil  5  minutes.  Then  take  them  from  the  stove  and 
set  them  in  the  sun.  Put  a  glass  over  them  or  tie  a  cloth 
over  and  let  them  stand  in  the  sun  1  week.  Stir  them  care- 
fully, occasionally.  Always  preserve  the  June  crop;  they 
are  not  so  juicy.  At  the  end  of  the  week  have  your  jars  clean 
and  dry  and  put  the  berries  in  cold,  and  seal  up.  Will  keep  fine. 

Peach  Preserves 

Take  any  fine  peaches;  peel  and  remove  pits.  Take  sugar 
equal  in  weight  to  fruit.  Half  pint  water  to  each  pound  of 
sugar;  add  fruit,  a  small  part  at  the  time.  Cook  slowly  30 
minutes. 

Tomato  Preserves 

Scald  and  peel  small,  perfectly  formed  tomatoes,  not  too 
ripe.  Prick  with  a  needle  to  prevent  bursting.  Add  an 
equal  amount  of  sugar  by  weight.  Let  lie  over  night.  Then 
pour  off  all  juice  into  a  preserving  kettle,  and  boil  until  it  is 
a  thick  syrup,  clarifying  with  the  white  of  an  egg.  Add 
tomatoes,  and  boil  carefully  until  they  look  transparent. 
One  lemon  to  a  pound  of  fruit,  sliced  thin  and  cooked  with 
the  fruit,  may  be  added. 

Strawberry  Sauce 

One  large  tablespoonful  butter  beaten  to  a  cream.  Add 
gradually  1}^  cups  powdered  sugar  and  the  beaten  white 
of  1  egg.  Beat  till  very  light;  and  just  before  serving  add 
1  pint  of  mashed  strawberries. 

California  Marmalade 

Six  navel  oranges,  and  3  large  seedless  lemons,  sliced 
very  thin,  and  leaving  out  the  thick  top  and  bottom  of  the 
peel.  The  juice  of  4  lemons  squeezed  over  the  above.  Weigh, 
and  to  each  pound  of  fruit  add  3  pints  of  water.  Let  stand 
another  24  hours,  then  boil  an  hour.  Let  stand  another 
24  hours,  then  weigh  water,  pulp  and  all.  To  each  pound 
add  1  pound  of  sugar,  and  boil  rather  fast  for  an  hour.     After 

259 


Condiments 

standing  a  few  days  it  will  turn  to  a  quivering  jelly,  is  not 
bitter,  and  I  think  you  will  agree  to  the  assertion  that  it  is 
the  most  delicate  and  delicious  orange  marmalade  you  ever 
tasted.  It  will  not  jelly  perfectly  if  made  too  late  in  the 
season,  when  the  oranges  are  at  their  sweetest. 

Lemon  Marmalade 

To  each  pound  of  lemons  allow  1^  pounds  sugar.  Peel  half 
of  the  lemons  and  grate  the  rind  from  the  others;  chop  the 
fruit,  removing  the  seeds  before  doing  this.  Press  out  all  the 
juice  you  can  in  a  vegetable-press  and  put  it  with  the  sugar. 
Set  over  the  fire,  stirring  until  the  sugar  is  dissolved. 

Orange  Marmalade 

Five  oranges  (sour)  and  1  lemon,  slice  thin  and  remove 
all  seeds.  Weigh  and  to  each  pound  of  fruit  add  3  pints  of 
water.  Let  stand  24  hours  and  then  boil  for  45  minutes. 
Remove  from  the  fire  and  let  stand  12  hours.  Weigh  and 
to  each  pound  add  1}4  pounds  sugar.  Then  boil  45  minutes. 
Then  put  in  glasses. 

Tutti  Frutti 

One  pint  best  alcohol,  and  5  cents  worth  salicylic  acid. 
Put  in  2-gallon  jar,  stone  a  quart  of  cherries,  and  add  from 
time  to  time  any  fresh  fruit  during  the  season,  red  and  black 
raspberries  or  fine  peaches,  stir  well  frequently.  This  is  a 
fine  addition  to  puddings,  custards  and  creams. 


260 


CHAPTER  XXVI 

CANDIES 
Fondant 

2  lbs.  granulated  sugar  yi  t.  cream  of  tartar  (scant) 

1  pt.  water 

Place  sugar  and  water  in  a  kettle  over  a  slow  fire  until 
it  almost  reaches  the  boiling  point;  then,  with  a  wet  cloth, 
wash  down  the  sides  of  the  kettle  to  remove  all  sugar  crystals. 
Add  the  cream  of  tartar,  dissolved  in  a  little  water,  and  boil 
until  the  syrup  will  form  a  soft  ball  in  ice-water,  or  to  be  more 
accurate,  use  a  candy  thermometer  and  cook  to  238°  Fahren- 
heit. Never  stir  after  it  reaches  the  boiling  point,  and  avoid 
shaking  the  kettle,  as  sugar  grains  very  easily.  Pour  the  syrup 
onto  a  marble  or  slate  slab,  or  a  large  platter  that  has  been 
placed  in  a  level  position,  where  it  can  remain  until  cold.  Pour 
slowly,  retaining  the  last  bit  of  syrup  in  the  kettle,  as  a  few 
drops  might  cause  the  whole  to  crystallize.  Moistening  the 
slab  and  sprinkling  the  top  of  the  syrup  with  water  will  help  it 
to  cool  more  quickly.  When  cold,  stir  with  a  paddle  or  wooden 
spoon  until  white  and  creamy.  In  about  10  minutes  it  will 
form  a  stiff  mass.  When  you  find  it  beginning  to  set,  place 
immediately  in  a  bowl,  and  cover  with  oil  paper.  Set  aside 
for  24  hours,  and  it  will  be  in  splendid  condition  for  use. 

Bonbons 

Save  about  two-thirds  of  the  fondant  for  coating  and  use 
the  remainder  for  centers.  These  can  be  made  by  mixing  the 
cream  with  jams  of  different  flavors,  chopped  nuts,  raisins, 
figs,  dates,  etc.  It  will  only  be  necessary  to  give  directions  for 
making  one  kind,  as  others  may  be  made  in  the  same  way. 
Chocolate  coating  is  similar  to  bonbon  coating,  if  you  use  a 
dipping-fork,  but  the  majority  of  fine  candies  are  hand  dipped. 
Use  any  good  confectioners'  bitter  coating  chocolate.  The 
ordinary  sweet  chocolate  will  not  do.  Melt  slowly  in  a  double 
boiler,  removing  from  the  fire  when  partly  melted,  as  care 
must  be  taken  not  to  get  the  chocolate  too  hot. 

261 


Candies 


Pralines 


2  lbs.  brown  sugar  1  lb.  nuts  (pecans  preferable) 

1  c.  sweet  cream  or  milk  2  tb.  butter 

Boil  until  it  is  a  soft  ball,  flavor  with  vanilla,  beat  until 
creamy,  drop  on  marble. 

Mints 

2  c.  good  pulverized  or  1  c.  boiling  water 

granulated  sugar  yV  t.  cream  tartar 

Boil  until  it  spins  a  thread — have  oiled  dish  and  pour  out 
to  cool.  Add  4  drops  peppermint  oil,  when  it  begins  to  set, 
beat  well  and  when  a  white,  creamy  mixture  put  on  marble  and 
knead  well,  put  in  double  boiler  and  if  necessary  add  teaspoon 
hot  water.  Use  white  first  by  dropping  by  spoonful  on  marble, 
then  if  desired,  color  remainder  any  color  desired. 

Cream  Candy 

5  c.  white  sugar  1  c.  sweet  cream 

1  c.  boiling  water  1  t.  vanilla  extract 

First  dissolve  the  sugar  in  the  boiling  water  very  thoroughly, 
using  a  whipping  motion,  until  there  is  no  trace  whatever  of 
the  grain  of  the  sugar.  Do  not  stir  after  placing  on  the  fire. 
Cook.  When  tried  in  cold  water,  it  will  form  a  soft  ball.  Then 
add  the  cream,  and  cook  until  it  will  form  a  hard  ball  when 
tested  in  the  same  way.  Add  the  extract  just  after  removing 
from  the  fire.  Pour  into  buttered  plates,  and  when  cool  pull. 
Cut  into  pieces  of  desired  length.  This  candy  should  be  set 
aside  for  about  24  hours,  as  in  that  length  of  time  it  becomes 
flaky  and  will  simply  melt  when  put  into  the  mouth.  If  a 
larger  amount  of  the  candy  is  desired  double  proportions  may 
be  used  with  equal  success. 

Kisses 

2  c.  brown  sugar  J4  c.  water 

1  tb.  vinegar  White  of  1  egg 

1  t.  vanilla  extract  1  c.  chopped  nut  meats 

The  sugar,  water  and  vinegar  should  be  boiled  together 
until  the  mixture  threads  when  dropped  from  a  spoon.  Beat 
up  the  white  of  egg  and  pour  mixture  into  it,  beating  all  the 
time.  When  rather  stiff  add  the  vanilla  extract  and  the  nut 
meats.     Drop  from  a  spoon  on  waxed  paper. 

262 


Candies 


Fig  Fudge 


J4  lb.  chopped  figs  1  c.  cold  water 

2  c.  granulated  sugar  A  few  grains  salt 
}i  t.  ground  ginger                                 1  tb.  butter 

Let  the  ingredients  boil  together,  stirring  frequently  to 
prevent  burning,  for  about  5  minutes,  or  until  the  mixture  is 
quite  thick.  Remove  from  the  fire  and  beat  the  fudge  until 
it  begins  to  turn  creamy  and  stiff.  Pour  into  a  buttered  pan; 
when  cold  mark  into  squares,  and  eat. 

Old -Fashioned  Caramels 

3  c.  granulated  sugar  1  c.  golden  syrup 
}i  lb.  chocolate  1  t.  vanilla  extract 

1  c.  butter  1  c.  milk 

Boil  all  these  ingredients  together,  stirring  frequently. 
Test  with  ice-cold  water;  if  it  hardens  pour  into  a  buttered  tin. 
When  cool  cut  into  squares  and  wrap  each  caramel  in  paraffin 
paper. 

Nut  Candy 

2  c.  white  sugar  A  few  chopped  nut  meats 

^  c.  water  A  few  drops  of  almond  extract 

A  pinch  of  cream  of  tartar  Green  coloring 

Red  coloring 

Put  the  sugar,  water  and  cream  of  tartar  into  a  granite 
saucepan  and  stir  well.  Then  place  on  the  fire  but  do  not  stir. 
Let  the  mixture  boil  until  it  blows  a  bubble.  Then  pour  it  out 
in  equal  quantities  into  three  deep  plates.  Into  each  plate 
pour  a  few  drops  of  almond  extract.  Into  the  first  plate  pour 
a  few  drops  of  red  coloring,  and  a  few  drops  of  green  coloring 
into  the  second.  Leave  the  third  plate  as  it  is.  Allow  to 
stand  for  5  minutes,  then  drop  a  few  chopped  nut  meats  into 
each  plate.  Stir  each  plateful  until  cool  enough  to  knead. 
Then  knead  until  creamy,  and  lay  it  on  oiled  paper  in  a  long, 
even  loaf,  about  2  inches  wide.  Place  the  white  layer  between 
the  colored  layers.     Let  the  candy  cool,  and  then  slice  it. 

Coconut  Drops 

1  large  coconut,  grated  ^  tumblerful  coconut  milk 

1^  lbs.  white  sugar 

The  sugar  and  coconut  milk  should  be  put  on  to  boil.  When 
it  spins  a  thread  add  the  grated  coconut  and  boil  quickly  for 

263 


Candies 

10  minutes.  Stir  frequently  with  a  wooden  spoon  to  keep 
from  sticking.  Remove  from  the  fire,  beat  well,  and  drop  in 
small  pieces  onto  a  wet  wooden  board. 

Peanut  Candy 

2  c.  roasted  peanuts  2  tb.  grated  chocolate 

2  c.  granulated  sugar  2  t.  vanilla  extract 

)4  c.  water 

Boil  the  sugar,  chocolate  and  water  until  it  threads  from 
a  spoon.  Then  add  the  vanilla  and  the  nuts.  The  nuts  should 
be  roasted  and  well  broken,  and  added  to  the  candy  while 
warm.  Stir  constantly  after  adding  the  flavoring,  and  pour 
into  buttered  plates. 

Marshmallow  Fudge 

J/2  lb.  marshmallows  2  oz.  chocolate 

2  c.  brown  sugar  1  c.  water 

1  c.  powdered  sugar  Pinch  of  cream  tartar 

Cook  all  the  ingredients  to  the  soft  ball  stage,  that  is,  when 
a  little  is  dropped  into  cold  water  a  soft  ball  is  formed.  Remove 
from  the  fire.  Add  the  marshmallows  torn  into  pieces,  and 
beat  until  it  stiffens.  Pour  into  buttered  pans  and  mark  into 
neat  squares. 

Honey  Drops 

1  tb.  strained  honey  X  t.  almond  extract 

}4  c.  boiling  water  White  of  1  egg 

1  c.  granulated  sugar  1  heaping  t.  butter 

Almonds  or  pecans,  as  desired 

Sugar,  honey  and  butter  should  be  put  into  boiling  water 
and  stirred  until  dissolved.  Then  cook  slowly  until  the  syrup 
threads.  Add  the  almond  extract  and  pour  the  syrup  onto 
the  beaten  white  of  egg.  Beat  until  cool,  then  drop  onto  wax 
paper.  Decorate  with  nuts  if  liked.  These  drops  should  be 
soft  and  creamy  and  white. 

Walnut  Candy 

2  c.  granulated  sugar  1  c.  chopped  English  walnuts 
J/2  c.  boiling  water  Whites  of  2  eggs 

J/2  c.  corn  syrup  1  t.  vanilla  extract 

Boil  together  the  sugar,  water  and  syrup  until  the  mixture 
becomes  crisp  when  dropped  into  cold  water.     Beat  up  the 

264 


Candies 

whites  of  eggs  until  stiff,  then  add  the  vanilla  extract  and  the 
nuts.  Pour  the  boiling  syrup  over  all,  and  beat  until  very 
stiff.  Turn  into  a  bread-pan,  and  when  the  loaf  is  cold  cut 
it  into  sHces  or  squares. 

Fruit  Squares  (Fresno) 

3  tb.  butter  }4  c.  broken  walnut  meats 

3  tb.  molasses  ^  c.  sultana  raisins 
3  squares  chocolate  1  t.  vanilla  extract 

1/4  c.  granulated  sugar  }4  c.  milk 

Put  the  butter  into  a  saucepan,  add  the  molasses,  chocolate, 
sugar  and  milk,  and  boil  until  it  forms  soft  ball  when  tried  in 
cold  water.  Stir  while  boiling.  When  done  add  the  vanilla, 
walnut  meats  and  raisins.  Beat  till  creamy  and  stiff  enough 
to  pour  into  a  buttered  pan.     Cut  in  squares  when  cool. 

Cream  Dates 

Remove  the  stones  from  the  dates,  without  entirely  sepa- 
rating them.  Take  a  tiny  piece  of  fondant,  form  it  into  a  little 
roll,  place  it  in  the  space  from  which  the  seed  was  taken,  press 
the  halves  together  so  that  only  a  small  quantity  of  the  candy 
can  be  seen,  roll  the  dates  in  granulated  sugar  and  place  them 
on  dishes  to  harden.  The  fondant  used  for  this  should  be 
flavored  with  vanilla. 

Cream  Walnuts 

Crack  English  walnuts  very  carefully,  removing  the  shells 
and  leaving  the  kernels  as  perfect  as  possible.  Put  }4 
pound  of  fondant  in  a  small  saucepan,  stand  it  in  a  basin  of 
boiling  water,  add  a  teaspoonful  of  vanilla  extract,  stir  until 
creamy,  take  from  the  fire.  Put  a  walnut  on  a  greased  fork, 
dip  it  down  into  the  fondant,  lift  it  carefully,  place  it  on  wax 
paper  to  harden  and  so  continue  until  all  are  finished.  All 
kinds  of  fondant  flavorings  and  colorings  may  be  used  for 
walnuts.     Chocolate  is  especially  good. 

Chocolate  Creams 

Take  J^  pound  of  unsweetened  chocolate  and  melt  in  a 
double  boiler.  Mold  small  pieces  of  fondant  into  little  balls 
and  with  a  fork  dip  them  into  the  chocolate  one  at  a  time. 
Place  them  on  a  buttered  dish  to  cool. 

18  265 


Candies 


French  Nougat 


Shell  and  blanch  ]4  pound  of  almonds;  put  them  into  the 
oven  until  thoroughly  dry,  not  brown.  Oil  shallow  baking 
pan,  sprinkle  the  bottom  with  almonds  and  over  this  add 
equal  quantity  of  pecan  meats,  and  a  few  English  walnuts; 
the  layer  of  the  nuts  should  be  at  least  ^  inch  thick.  Put 
2  cups  granulated  sugar  in  a  saucepan  and  stir  constantly  over 
a  strong  fire  until  it  melts.  Pour  this  slowly  over  the  nuts. 
When  this  is  slightly  cool,  cut  with  a  sharp  knife  into  bars. 
Fruit  Nougat  is  made  exactly  the  same  way,  using  fruit  with 
nuts. 

Peanut  Brittle 

Use  equal  quantities  of  granulated  sugar  and  chopped 
peanuts.  Melt  the  sugar  in  a  shallow  pan.  When  it  becomes 
a  golden  brown  syrup  add  the  chopped  nuts,  put  on  bottom  of 
an  inverted  tin  pan  and  press  into  shape  with  two  knives, 
crease  it  and  put  it  away  to  harden. 

Coconut  Bar 

4  c.  sugar  }4  grated  coconut 

1  c.  water  1  t.  flavoring 

J4  t.  cream  tartar 

Heat  the  first  three  ingredients,  stirring  until  the  sugar  is 
dissolved.  Cook  without  stirring  until  it  forms  a  soft  ball. 
When  tried  in  cold  water  remove  from  the  fire  and  cool. 

Beat  until  it  thickens,  adding  coconut  and  flavoring.  Pour 
into  buttered  pans.     Cool  slightly  and  cut  into  bars. 

Sea  Foam  (Candy) 

2  c.  light  brown  sugar  }4  c.  water 

Boil  until  it  spins  thread.  Take  from  the  fire  and  flavor 
with  vanilla.  Pour  slowly  over  stiffly  beaten  white  of  egg,  and 
add  chopped  fruit  and  nuts.  Drop  on  marble  and  wrap  in 
oiled  paper. 

Panocha 

3  c.  brown  sugar  1  c.  white  sugar 

1  c.  cream 

Cook  until  it  forms  a  soft  ball,  in  cold  water;  add  1  table- 
spoonful  butter  and  1  teaspoonful  vanilla  and  1^  cupfuls 
pecan  meats.  Beat  until  creamy,  pour  into  a  greased  pan  and 
cut  in  squares. 

266 


Candies 


Panocha 


1  lb.  brown  sugar  1  c.  milk 

2  lbs.  English  walnuts,  Butter  half  the  size  of  an  egg 

broken  1  t.  vanilla 

Mix  ingredients  and  boil  until  syrup  threads  from  a  spoon. 
Remove  from  stove,  add  nuts  and  vanilla,  beat  until  it  creams, 
pour  into  buttered  pans  and  cut  in  squares. 

Peanut  Brittle 

Shell  and  chop  roasted  nuts  to  measure  1  pint.  Put  2 
pounds  granulated  sugar  in  a  clean  frying  pan.  Stir  over  a 
slow  fire.  It  will  lump,  then  gradually  melt.  When  pale 
coffee  color  and  clear,  add  nuts  and  pour  quickly  on  a  buttered 
tin  sheet.     Roll  thin  as  possible.     When  cold,  break  up. 

Buttermilk  Fudge 

2  c.  granulated  sugar  3  tb.  butter  or  crisco 

3  squares  bitter  chocolate  1  t.  salt 

^  c.  buttermilk  (or  sour  milk)  1  t.  vanilla 

rV  t.  cream  tartar  12  marshmallows 

Stir  well  the  sugar,  chocolate  and  milk.  Let  it  come  slowly 
to  a  boil,  keeping  saucepan  well  covered  until  it  boils.  Add 
cream  tartar  and  salt.  When  it  forms  a  soft  ball  in  water, 
add  the  butter  and  marshmallows,  remove  from  the  range  and 
beat  well  until  creamy,  add  vanilla,  beat  a  few  minutes  and 
pour  into  well  oiled  pans.     Mark  off  in  squares. 

Fudge 

2  c.  granulated  sugar  4  oz.  chocolate 

1  tb.  butter  J4  c.  milk 

Put  into  a  saucepan  over  the  fire  until  thoroughly  melted. 
Boil,  stirring  constantly  until  the  mixture  hardens  when 
dropped  into  cold  water;  take  from  the  fire,  add  teaspoonful 
vanilla  and  turn  quickly  out  to  cool.  When  cold  cut  into 
squares. 

Raisin  Fudge 

2  c.  granulated  sugar  1  tb.  butter 

1  c.  milk  }4  c.  chocolate 

Boil,  stirring  continually  until  bubbles  break  slowly.  Have 
ready  }{  pound  of  walnuts  chopped  fine  and  1  pound  chopped 
raisins.  Add  these  and  stir  until  stiff;  then  pour  into  buttered 
pans.     Mark  into  squares  when  sufl5.ciently  cool. 

267 


Candies 

Divinity  Fudge 

2}4  c.  sugar  ^4  c.  water 

^2  c.  corn  syrup  Whites  2  eggs 

1  c.  broken  walnuts 

Mix  sugar,  syrup  and  water,  and  boil  until  when  dropped 
in  cold  water  the  mixture  will  form  a  firm  ball  between  the 
fingers.  Beat  the  eggs  stiff.  Pour  half  the  boiling  mixture 
over  the  eggs,  beating  constantly.  Return  the  remaining  half 
of  the  mixture  to  the  stove  and  boil  until  when  dropped  in  cold 
water  it  forms  a  hard  ball.  Then  remove  from  the  stove  and 
pour  slowly  into  the  first  half,  beating  constantly.  Add 
walnuts  and  vanilla,  pour  into  a  buttered  pan,  and  cut  in 
squares. 

Peanut  Butter  Fudge 

2  c.  sugar  1  c.  milk 

2  heaping  tb.  peanut  butter 

Mix  the  ingredients  and  place  over  a  flame.  When  it 
begins  to  boil  vigorously,  cook  5  minutes.  Beat,  pour  into  a 
buttered  pan,  and  cut  in  squares. 

Cream  Caramels 

X  lb-  chocolate  }4  pt.  cream 

1  pt.  granulated  sugar 

Put  into  a  saucepan,  and  stir  until  it  boils;  then  stir  con- 
stantly until  the  mixture  forms  a  soft  ball  when  dropped  in 
cold  water;  begin  to  test  after  the  first  10  minutes.  Pour  into 
greased  pans  and  cut  into  squares. 

Caramels 

Use  2  cupfuls  sugar;  2  tablespoonfuls  of  butter;  cream 
enough  to  melt  the  sugar.  While  this  is  cooking,  brown  1 
cupful  of  sugar,  stirring  constantly  to  keep  from  burning. 
Pour  the  two  together  and  pour  on  a  buttered  plate.  Cut 
when  cold  in  squares. 

Philadelphia  Caramels 

Melt  4  tablespoonfuls  butter.  Add  1  cupful  molasses,  1 
cupful  brown  sugar,  and  }^  cup  of  milk.  Stir  until  mixed, 
bring  to  the  boiling  point,  add  4  squares  of  chocolate.  Boil 
until  a  firm  ball  is  formed  when  dropped  in  cold  water.  Add 
1  teaspoonful  vanilla  and  1  cupful  of  nuts.  Turn  into  buttered 
pan  and  cut  in  cubes  when  cool. 

268 


Candies 

Pecan  Pralines 

1^  c.  powdered  sugar  1  c.  maple  sugar 

}4  c.  thin  cream 

Boil  till  it  hardens  in  water;  add  1  cupful  pecans,  beat  well, 
drop  from  a  spoon  in  oblong  piles  on  buttered  paper. 


Cream  Drops 

2  c.  brown  sugar  1  c.  white  sugar 

}4  c.  corn  syrup  1  c.  cream 

After  it  boils  add  1  dessertspoonful  of  vinegar.  Cook  until 
it  forms  a  soft  ball  when  dropped  in  cold  water.  Whip  until 
creamy  and  add  2  cups  nuts. 


Divinity 

^  c.  of  water  3  c.  granulated  sugar 

1  c.  corn  syrup 

Put  these  into  a  saucepan;  let  cook  until  the  mixture  will 
make  a  soft  ball  when  tested  in  cold  water.  Twenty  minutes 
after  the  first  saucepan  has  been  started,  into  a  second  one 
put  ^  cup  water  and  1  cup  granulated  sugar  and  set  to  cook. 
When  this  mixture  "threads"  when  dropped  from  a  spoon,  it  is 
done.  This  will  be  very  nearly  same  time  as  when  first  is  in 
proper  condition.  When  the  first  is  ready,  the  mixture  should 
be  poured  slowly  over  the  whites  of  3  eggs,  whisked  to  a  stiff 
froth,  beating  briskly  the  while.  When  it  has  reached  a 
satisfactory  stage,  turn  in  slowly  the  contents  of  the  second 
saucepan,  still  beating  constantly,  and  stir  in  a  cup  of  nut 
meats.  Turn  the  mass  out  in  a  buttered  tin  and  score  in 
squares  when  sufficiently  cool. 


Marshmallows 

Take  16  tablespoonfuls  water,  4  cupfuls  sugar;  boil  until 
it  makes  a  soft  ball  in  cold  water,  1  box  Knox  gelatin;  let  soak 
while  other  is  boiling.  Pour  hot  syrup  over  gelatin  and  beat 
this  thin  mixture  until  very  thick  and  white.  Pour  into  a 
powdered  mold  and  stand  3  hours.  Let  stand  until  cool. 
Turn  out  on  paper  covered  with  cornstarch.  Any  flavoring 
or  color  desired  may  be  used. 

269 


Candies 


Ice  Cream  Candy 


3  c.  sugar  }4  c.  hot  water 

j4  t.  cream  tartar  }4  tb.  vinegar 

Boil  ingredients  together,  without  stirring,  until  mixture 
becomes  brittle  when  tried  in  cold  water.  Turn  on  buttered 
plates.  As  edges  cool,  fold  them  toward  the  center.  When 
sufficiently  cool  to  handle,  pull  until  white  and  glossy.  While 
pulling  flavor  with  vanilla,  orange,  chocolate  or  any  preferred 
flavoring.     Cut  with  scissors  or  a  sharp  knife. 

Molasses  Candy 

2  c.  molasses  1  tb.  vinegar 

1  c.  sugar  Butter  size  of  a  walnut 

Boil  ingredients  together  until  the  mixture  will  become 
brittle  when  dropped  in  cold  water.  Remove  from  the  fire, 
stir  in  ^  teaspoon  baking  soda,  cool  in  a  buttered  pan  suffi- 
ciently to  pull.     Pull  and  cut,  using  scissors  or  a  sharp  knife. 

Butter-Scotch 

2  c.  sugar  2  tb.  water 

Butter  size  of  an  egg 

Mix  the  ingredients  and  boil,  without  stirring,  until  it 
hardens  when  dropped  in  cold  water.  Pour  into  a  buttered 
shallow  pan  and  crease  in  squares. 

Chocolate  Popcorn 

2  c.  white  sugar  2  oz.  chocolate 

}4  c.  cornstarch  1  c.  water 

Put  these  ingredients  into  a  kettle  and  cook  them  until  the 
syrup  hardens,  when  put  in  cold  water.  Pour  over  4  quarts  of 
crisp,  freshly  popped  corn  and  stir  well  to  insure  the  uniform 
coating  of  the  kernels. 

Sugared  Popcorn 

Make  a  syrup  by  boiling  together  2  cups  granulated  sugar 
and  1  cup  water.  Boil  until  the  syrup  strings  from  the  spoon 
or  hardens  when  dropped  into  cold  water.  Pour  over  6  quarts 
of  freshly  popped  corn  and  stir  well. 

270 


Candies 

Popcorn  Balls 

1  pt.  corn  syrup  1  pt.  sugar 

1  t.  vinegar 

Cook  till  the  syrup  hardens  when  dropped  into  cold  water. 
Remove  to  the  back  of  the  stove  and  add  ^  teaspoonful  soda 
dissolved  in  1  tablespoonful  of  hot  water  and  then  pour  the 
hot  syrup  over  2  quarts  of  freshly  popped  corn,  stirring  till 
each  kernel  is  well  coated,  when  it  can  be  molded  into  balls  or 
into  any  desired  form. 


271 


arairaiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiEiiii^ 


IN  all  recipes  in  this   book  calling   for  | 

baking  powder  use  ** Royal."      Better  | 

and  finer  food  will  be  the  result,  and  | 

you  will  safeguard  it  against  alum.  | 

In  recipes  calling  for  one  teaspoonful  | 

of  soda  and  two  of  cream  of  tartar,  use  two  | 

spoonfuls  of  Royal,  and  leave  the  cream  of  | 

tartar  and  soda  out.      You  get  the  better  | 

food  and  save  much  trouble  and  guesswork.  | 

Look   out  for  alum    baking  powders.  | 

Do  not  permit   them  to  come  into  your  | 

house  under  any  consideration.     They  add  | 

an  injurious  substance  to  your  food,  destroy-  | 

ing  in  part  its  digestibility.       All  doctors  | 

will  tell  you  this,  and  it  is  unquestionable.  | 

The  use  of  alum  in  whiskey  is  absolutely  | 

prohibited;   why   not   equally   protect   the  | 

food  of  our  women  and  children  ?  I 

Alum  baking  powders  may  be  known  | 

by  their  price.     Baking  powders  at  a  cent  | 

an  ounce  or  ten  or  twenty-five  cents  a  pound  | 

are  made  from  alum.     Avoid  them.     Use  | 

no  baking  powder  unless  the  label  shows  it  | 

is  made  from  cream  of  tartar.  | 

■  s 

■  ■ 
I  I 

biiiiiiiiiiiiw^^ 


Makes 

Lightest, 

Whitest, 

Finest 

Cakes 


Swans  Down  ( 


PREPARED 

Not  Self-Rising 


)  Cake  Flour 


Made  especially  for  use  in  making  fine 
cakes  and  pastries. 

SURPRISE  YOUR  FAMILY  AND  FRIENDS  BY  THE 
EXCELLENCE   OF   YOUR   CAKES   AND    PASTRIES 

IGLEHEART   BROTHERS,   Evansville,  Ind. 

The  recipes  in  this  book  will  be  greatly  improved  in  their  value  if 
Swans   Down  Cake   Flour   is  used  with  each  one. 

Knox  Sparkling  Gelatine 


IS 


IS 


Granulated  and 

put  up  in  two  different 
packages  —  the  Plain 
Sparkling  No.  1  is  a 
Yellow  package,  and 
the  Sparkling  Acidu- 
lated No.  3  is  a  Blue 
package.  The  contents 
of  both  packages  make 
the  same  quantity — 
two  quarts  of  jelly — 
and  are  alike  except 
that  the  Acidulated 
contains  an  extra  en- 
velope of  Lemon  Fla- 
vor— a  convenience  to 
the  housewife  and  saving  her  the  trouble  and  cost  of  using  lemons.  From  either 
the  Plain  or  the  Acidulated  you  can  make  Desserts,  Jellies,  Puddings,  Salads, 
Mayonnaise  Dressing,  Ice  Creams,  Sherbets,  Candies,  Etc. 

Let  U8  send  you  our  FREE  recipe  book.  "Dainty  Desserts  for  Dainty  People,  ^^ 
showing  bow  to  make  all  these  good  things. 

CHARLES  B.  KNOX  CO.,  Johnstown,  N.Y. 


THE  YELLOW  PACKAGE 


THE  BLUE  PACKAGE 


In  judging  a  flavoring  extract  the  most 
important  qualities  to  consider  are  flavor, 
strength  and  uniformity.  The  fact  that 
Mrs.  Vaughn  uses 

Burnett's  Standard 
Flavoring  Extracts 

exclusively  for  flavoring  her  delicious  cakes 
is  convincing  evidence  of  the  satisfaction  they 
will  give  you. 

Joseph  Burnett  Company 

Boston,  Mass. 


Let  the  Meals  Cook 
Without  Watching 

With  aThermatic  the  meals  can  be  cooking 
while  you  are  away  from  home  or  engaged 
in  other  ways,  and  will  be  most  deliciously 
cooked  at  time  for  serving.  It  needs  no 
watching.  Foods  will  not  cook  dry  or 
bum,  and  roasts  need  no  basting.     Every 

Thermatic 
Fireless  Cooker 

proves  that  the  Thermatic  way  is  the  better  way.  All  the  heat 
of  cooking  is  confined  within  the  Thermatic.  None  escapes  to 
warm  up  the  kitchen,  and  it  actually  saves  two-thirds  the  fuel  used 
in  cooking. 

Thermatics  are  rustproof,  permanently  steam-tight,  and  have 
many  superior  features  not  found  on  any  other  fireless  cooker. 
Beautiful  catalog  free. 

Dept  V,    THE  DILLER  MFG.  CO.,    Bluffton,  0. 


: 


LIBRARY  OF  CONGRESS 


0  014  481  449  6 


