Google 


This is a digital copy of a book that was preserved for generations on library shelves before it was carefully scanned by Google as part of a project 
to make the world’s books discoverable online. 

It has survived long enough for the copyright to expire and the book to enter the public domain. A public domain book is one that was never subject 
to copyright or whose legal copyright term has expired. Whether a book is in the public domain may vary country to country. Public domain books 
are our gateways to the past, representing a wealth of history, culture and knowledge that’s often difficult to discover. 


Marks, notations and other marginalia present in the original volume will appear in this file - a reminder of this book’s long journey from the 
publisher to a library and finally to you. 


Usage guidelines 
Google is proud to partner with libraries to digitize public domain materials and make them widely accessible. Public domain books belong to the 


public and we are merely their custodians. Nevertheless, this work is expensive, so in order to keep providing this resource, we have taken steps to 
prevent abuse by commercial parties, including placing technical restrictions on automated querying. 


We also ask that you: 


+ Make non-commercial use of the files We designed Google Book Search for use by individual 
personal, non-commercial purposes. 


and we request that you use these files for 


+ Refrain from automated querying Do not send automated queries of any sort to Google’s system: If you are conducting research on machine 
translation, optical character recognition or other areas where access to a large amount of text is helpful, please contact us. We encourage the 
use of public domain materials for these purposes and may be able to help. 


+ Maintain attribution The Google “watermark” you see on each file is essential for informing people about this project and helping them find 
additional materials through Google Book Search. Please do not remove it. 


+ Keep it legal Whatever your use, remember that you are responsible for ensuring that what you are doing is legal. Do not assume that just 
because we believe a book is in the public domain for users in the United States, that the work is also in the public domain for users in other 
countries. Whether a book is still in copyright varies from country to country, and we can’t offer guidance on whether any specific use of 
any specific book is allowed. Please do not assume that a book’s appearance in Google Book Search means it can be used in any manner 
anywhere in the world. Copyright infringement liability can be quite severe. 


About Google Book Search 


Google’s mission is to organize the world’s information and to make it universally accessible and useful. Google Book Search helps readers 
discover the world’s books while helping authors and publishers reach new audiences. You can search through the full text of this book on the web 
ai[http: //books . google. com/| 


- 


~ 


DAINTY DISHES 


FOR 


INDIAN TABLES. 


We may live without poetry, music, and art; 

We may live without conscience, and live without heart 3 
We may live without friends ; we may live without books ; 
But civilized man cannot live without cooks. 


He may live without books ;—what is knowledge but grieving ? 
He may live without hope ;—what is hope but deceiving ? 

He may live without love ;—what is passion but pining? ~ 
But where is the man that can live without dining ? 


(Lucile.)—Owen MEREDITH. 


SECOND EDITION 


Galcutta: 
W. NEWMAN & CO., 3, DALHOUSIE SQUARE. 


1881, 


a 


THE NEW YORK 
PUBLIC LIBRARY . 


$19774B 


ASTOR, LEN@X AND 
TILDEN FOUNDATIONS 
2 1945 L 


CALCUTTA, 
PRINTED BY W. NEWMAN & CO., AT THE CAXTON PRESS 
) ss, 
I, MISSION ROW. 


PREFACE. 


THE cordial reception with which “ Dainty Dishes” has 
been recejved may be taken as a proof that such a work 
was needed by English residents inIndia. In preparing a 
second edition for the press, the Author has, at the sugges- 
tion of numerous friends, added two new chapters on Curries 
and felaus, giving a few simple recipes. The subject,. how- 
ever, is a large one to deal with, and scarcely comes within 
the scope of the present work. A few other recipes have 
been added, and some errors which had crept into the first 
edition have been corrected. 


June, 1881. 


4/’ ~ 


war YORK 
Paull C LIBRARY 


3197741 


AMTOK, yaniex AM) 
TLS PORT ATIOMS 
B 1945 


CALLIVT A 
WUWMAN & Or, 


PRINTED WY W. N 
1, MIssION KOW, 


Av THE CARTON 


bs, 


PREFACE, 


Tue coniial reception with which © Dainty Dishes” has 
been recejved may be taken as a proof that such a work 
was necdad by English residents in India. In preparing a 
second edition for the press, the Authar has, at) the stytes: 
tion of numerous friends, added two new chapters an Currtes 
and /¥ians, giving a few simple recipes ‘The subject, how: 
ever, is a large ane to deal with, and scarecly comes within 
the scope of the present work. A few other recipes have 
been added, and some crrors which had crept into the first 
edition have been corrected. 


Frame 1888, 


r- Tr wT 7 -- 


WA A Sf! 0 Ie 


PREFACE TO THE FIRST EDITION. 


SE cone 


It is with some diffidence we add another to the long 
list of existing Cookery Books, in the face of the fact that 
the amount of teaching would already seem to be out of all 
proportion to the progress made in the art. Where Franc- 
atelli, Soyer, Miss Acton, and a host of others have spoken 
in vain, what hope is there for a new teacher, unless indeed 
he be the pioneer of a new path up the hill of difficultye 
And this is in truth our claim to be heard, that the present 
work contains an element of success in which its predeces- 
sors have been wanting. The principal stumbling block in 
the way of teachers has hitherto been the impossibility of 
relying on the memory of their cooks to retain the numer- 
ous ingredients and often complicated processes of a variety 
of dishes of which they have no record. It seemed to us 
that this obstacle would be removed by the possession of a 
Cookery Book which our cooks could read, in which they 
could find a simple clear account of the dishes they have 
to make, instead of being as heretofore dependent on a 
garbled, inaccurate, vague wvé voce translation. 

It was at first suggested to us to translate one of the 
many existing Cookery Books instead of compiling a new 
one, but we found they contained much that was useless 
fxr India, and that moreover, as a rule, the recipes were so 
carelessly written, and pre-supposed so complete a mastery 


iv PREFACE. 


of his art in the learner, as to be practically useless. Both 
these defects we have striven to avoid, and while confining 
ourselves almost entirely to the preparation of European 
dishes, (in making which our cooks seem to us peculiarly 
unskilful) we have endeavoured to provide a great variety, 
all of them within the means at the disposal of an ordinary 
Anglo-Indian establishment. 

A good deal of attention has been devoted to the pre- 
paration of vegetables, eggs, macaroni, &c., as dishes 
composed of these ingredients do not, we think, occupy 
the place they deserve on our dinner tables. People, as 
a rule, scarcely realise how agreeably a diet in which meat 
now plays too important a part may be varied by the 
introduction of vegetable and farinacious food, especially 
during the hot weather. 

It may be objected that as many cooks cannot read, the 
Urdu copy of this work will avail them nothing, but in all 
households some member will be found possessing the 
necessary accomplishment who will be glad to display it 
for the benefit of his brethren. 

One other difficulty which lies in the way of reform in 
our cuésine is the painful fact that, with most cooks, lining 
their own pockets is to them a matter of far greater 
importance than the excellence of the dishes they are 
called on to make. One means of doing this, which finds 
special favour in their eyes, is to use half the ingredients 
named in the recipes, and to write down the full amount 
in the bill. 

The only way to meet this difficulty is to face the fact 
that a certain percentage of his master’s money will surely 
find its way into the cook’s pocket, and therefore it will 


wire PREFACE. Vv 


be wise to allow him a certain latitude in the matter of 
prices, which will leave him at liberty to do justice to the 
recipe, and deliver him from the temptation to ruin our 
entrées by a fatal curtailment of eggs and butter. 

It will be found a good plan to practise new dishes at 
your daily dinnets tri they are perfected. It flurries the 
cook to task him with experiments when you have a dinner 
party, and he will be likely to fail even in the dishes which 
he understands if he is anxious about the results of first 
efforts. 

Good dinners are not achieved by lavishing money, but 
by bestowing care on their preparation, and the result 
will be proportioned to the attention given to each parti- 
cular dish, and the careful working out of every detail. 

Good, wholesome food, daintily prepared, is one of the 
minor luxuries which oil the wheels of life, and we shall 
be well pleased if this book brings it within the means of | 
those who, while appreciating its value, have, from various 
causes, been unable to procure it till now. 


1879. 


CONTENTS. 


Page. 
GENERAL DIRECTIONS AND REMARKS ... ves i I 
KITCHEN UTENSILS vee nee aes wee 7 
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES ... “es wee ose 8 
SAUCES, CONDIMENTS. AND PICKLES ... nes wes 9 
CuRRY POWDERS oes wes eee we = 22 
FLAVOURINGS ... oes ves wes rer x} 
Soups, BROTHs, &c. wee ves wes we = 25 
FIsH ... ees oes oes aes w= «44 
BEEF... eee aoe vos bee .. 56 
SECOND DRESSINGS OF BEEF bes wee ww. 65 
LAMB eee oes bas bee .. 68 
MUTTON eee oe ves ves we OS 
ENTREES OF MUTTON oes wee bee . 83 
SECOND DRESSINGS OF MUTTON eee vee .. «=—87 
VEAL... eee wos bee ves wv. §=6o QS 
PoRK... bes ees wes wee ... 106 
POULTRY wee eee wee tes oo. =N4 
GAME eee oes ove bes re Ky | 
CURRIES bes wes vee vee ws =5E 
PELAUS ves oes wes wee oo =157 
VEGETABLES _.... eee vos bes w+ 162 
SALADS oon oes nae wee we 195 
EGGs... wes eee wee bes -» 199 
OMELETS - ve _ - ves 207 
MACARONI CHEESE, SAVOURY RICE, TOASTs, &C.... .. 210 
MILK, CREAM, CREAM-CHEESE, CUSTARD wee w. =228 
Pastry, TARTS, &c. ee wes wee we 233 


SWEET OMELETS, SOUFFLES, FRITTERS, AND PANCAKES vw 246 


vill CONTENTS. 


BOILED AND BAKED PUDDINGS 

SWEET DISHES FOR ENTREMETS 
CREAMS, BLANC-MANGER, AND JELLIES 
PRESERVES, COMPOTES, &C. 

CAKES eee 

BREAD . . 


DESSERT DISHES, DRIED FRUITS, CONFECTIONERY 


ICES ... eee eee 

COFFEE, TEA, CHOCOLATE ... wee 
DRINKING Cups, SYRUPS, LIQUEURS, &C. 

ITEMS FOR INVALIDS wee 

MENUS ses ees ose 

INDEX wes 

ADVERTISEMENTS eee bes eee 


GENERAL DIRECTIONS AND REMARKS. 


In order that the dishes prepared should be good, it is 
absolutely necessary that all the ingredients should be good 
and fresh, otherwise the result will not be satisfactory. 


All the cooking utensils should be scrupulously clean, and 
the degchees should be tinned at least once a month, or if 
possible every fortnight. 

The minutest directions have been given and often re- 
peated several times, and all the quantities most carefully 
apportioned, in order that even an inexperienced cook need 
feel no doubts as to the result of an experiment. : 


In many instances when cream is not attainable, such as 
In sauces, soups, &c., fresh goat’s milk, with the yolk of an 
egg beaten up in it, will be found to answer equally well. 


When herbs cannot be procured fresh, they can always 
be purchased dried in bottles at the English store-shops. 


The following is a list of stores, which should always be 
kept in readiness as they are required for all dishes. 


Loaf sugar, moist sugar, sifted loaf sugar, whole pepper, 
ground pepper, black and white, cayenne, mustard, fine 
salt, soy, anchovy sauce, Harvey sauce, tomato sauce, 
chutney, mushroom ketchup, capers, pickles, vinegar, Lucca 
oil, Tarragon vinegar, Chilli vinegar, all kinds of herbs in 
bottles, and Parmesan cheese. 


2 DAINTY DISHES FOR INDIAN TABLES. 


We would also strongly recommend our readers to pro- 
cure Cre-fydd’s sauces, sold by Crosse and Blackwell, one 
of which, Casureep, supplies the place of all other seasoning. 
Moulds.—Moulds must be dipped into cold water before 

putting either jelly or cream into them; and when 
about to turn out the contents they must be quickly 
dipped into hot water and wiped dry. 

Vanilla Sugar is made by keeping six sticks of vanilla in a 
glass jar with a stopper filled with sifted loaf sugar. ‘Thus 
it will always be ready for use, and is better for flavouring 
than either.the sticks themselves or the essence. 

Zea to be good, requires three teaspoonsful to a breakfast 
cup. Coffee one ounce (% chittack) to a coffee cup. To 
make them good the water must be perfectly boiling. 

In Soups where ham is not available, the root of a salted 
boiled tongue may be substituted, and in forcemeats, 
&c., some slices of tongue may be used instead. 

Garlic, though indispensable to good cookery, has a most 
disagreeable flavour when too much 1s used, therefore 
the directions about rubbing the bottom of the cooking 
pot with it must be strictly adhered to. 

Baked Floury.—Put one pound (two chittacks) of fine flour 
into a soup plate and bake in a cool oven until it is 
quite dry, but not colored; when cold, pound it and 
put it into a glass jar; tie it over with paper, and 
keep for use when directed. 

Dried or prepared Crumbs.—Put some bread on a sheet of 
paper, place it in a cool oven, and let it remain until per- 
fectly dried through. Divide the crust from the crumb 
and pound them separately till in a very fine powder. 
Put them into jars, and keep them ina dry place. 


GENERAL DIRECTIONS AND REMARKS, 3 


The white crumbs are used for sweetbreads, cutlets, fried fish, 
puddings, &c. The brown crumbs are to be used for 
hams, bacon, coloring broth, &c. Any pieces of bread 
then left should be baked daily as the bread should not 
be stale, and should be pounded twice or thrice a week. 

Burnt Sugar for coloring Soups, &¢.—Put 1 of a ib. (two 
chittacks) of sifted loaf sugar into a small iron 
saucepan (untinned), and place it over the fire to bake 
until it becomes black, but not crisp like a cinder ; add 
a pint (ten chittacks) of water, and simmer till the sugar 
dissolves and the water is reduced to lmlf a pint (four 
chittacks), strain through a cloth, and when cold bottle 

,and keep for use. Great care is required in flavoring 
not to put too much, and it must be used by drops 
until the desired result is attained. 


Black Onions for Soups, &c.—Peel six large onions and put 
them on atin dish. Knead together $ of a ib. (four chit- 
tacks) of salt butter and } of a fb. (two chittacks) of 
moist sugar; divide it into six equal parts and place 
one oneach onion. Put them in a slow oven and bake 
until they are black ¢hrough, but not burnt crisp. 
Baste them frequently with the liquor; when done, 
put them in a pie dish and keep for use. These 
Onions give a finer color to soup and gravy than any- 
thing else ; they also impart a good flavor. 


Spinach greening for Sauces.—Take two handsful of spinach, 
wash it, and put it wef into a mortar; pound it to a 
pulp, and then pour all the contents of the mortar into 
a strong cloth, which two people, one at each end, must 
twist opposite ways to wring out all the juice. Pour the 
extract into a small stewpan and set it over the fire; 


DAINTY DISHES FOR INDIAN TABLES. 


when it curdles scrape it out with a spoon and lay it 
on a sieve that the water may drip off. Place it in a 
covered basin and keep in a cool place till wanted. 


Quenelle forcemeat of Veal.—Take 1 tb. of lean white veal 


The 


cut from the leg or chump end; scrape it with a 
knife ; pound and rub it through a wire sieve upon a 
plate. Take 12 oz. of this, and put it in a mortar. 
Steep 8 oz. of the crumb of a new loaf in tepid water 
and wring it in a cloth to extract the water ; place it 
in a degchee with # of an ounce of butter and a 
saltspoonfu® of salt, stir it over the fire with a wooden 
spoon until it ceases to stick to the stewpan and 
becomes a smooth paste; then put it beween two 
plates to cool. When it is cold put it into the mortar 
with the veal and 6 oz. of butter, and pound well to- 
gether ; then add the yolks of five eggs and the whites 
of three, two tablespoonsful of good white sauce, (see 
Sauces No. 2), one teaspoonful of salt, and one salt- 
spoonful of white pepper. When these ingredients 
have all been well mixed by pounding, take the 
whole out of the mortar, put it into a basin, and keep 
it on ice or in a cool place until required for use. 
Liguor in which beef or mutton are boiled should be 
reserved in uncovered earthen pans for soups. (See 
Economical Soup.) The milk in which fowls, rabbits, 
&c., are boiled should be reserved for white sauces. 


Curry Rice.—Take % lb. of Patna rice; wash it in three 


changes of cold water ; let it stand in the last for half 
an hour. Pour off the water, and put the rice into a 


Note.—All varieties of quenelle forcemeat are to be prepared in the 


same 


way using for the different varieties the fillets of fowls, 


pheasants, pea-fowl, partridges, snipe, hares, rabbits, &c., using exactly 
the same proportions. 


GENERAL DIRECTIONS AND REMARKS. 5 


degchee and cover it to the depth of two or three inches 
with cold water, add a teaspoonful of salt and boil 
quickly for twenty minutes. Then dash ina cup of 
cold water, take it off the fire instantly and put it on a 
sieve before the fire or in the oven with a dry cloth or 
a sheet of brown paper over it. Leave it for seven 
minutes and then serve as directed. 


Recipe for preserving Vegetables.—The vegetables which pre- 
serve best are French beans, carrots, and broad beans; 
green peas, asparagus and cauliflower are more diff- 
cult to: preserve, and require more careful dressing when 
opened to conceal a certain tinned flavour which is 
almost always noticeable, though this can be got rid of 
by rinsing them for a second in scalding water before 
preparing them for the table. The process of preserv- 
ing, then, is as follows: In the first place, the tins 
in which the vegetables are to be preserved must 
be most carefully cleaned, being boiled in soda and 
water the day before they are used, and ferfectly dried. 
The vegetables are prepared just as they would be if 
they were going to be cooked for the table; they are 
then thrown into doz/ing water, slightly salted, and are 
boiled till they are a/most but not gu:te as tender as 
they would be if they were to be eaten at once. They 
are then lifted out of the saucepan with a cullender (or 
sieve-spoon) and laid in the tins, which are filled within 
an inch of the top. The tins are then filled to the 
top with some of the water in which the vegetables 
were boiled. The same tin can be used over and over 
again, but a new cover must always be provided. The 
cover must be soldered on ; and, as each tin is ready, it 


6 DAINTY DISHES FOR INDIAN TABLES. 


is placed in a large pan of doling water, so that the 
tins are quite immersed. They must be left in the pans 
for 10 minutes, and this will test whether they are 
quite air-tight or not. If they are not wholly air-tight, 
small bubbles of air will rise to the surface; and when 
this is the case, the tin must be taken out and carefully 
examined and the weak spot soldered: then the tin 
must be tested again, and must be examined and re- 
paired until no more air bubbles rise and it is quite 
air-tight. The tins are then set aside to cool down 
gadually ; and when they are quite cold, they may be 
packed in cases and deposited in a cool, dry place till 
wanted. Every now and then, as may be expected in 
spite of all precautions, it will be seen within the first 
fortnight that on one or two of the tins the covers bulge 
and rise. ‘This shows that the covers were not air-tight, 
and the vegetables contained in them are useless and 
can be thrown away. If, however, this process does 
not take place after a few weeks, the tins are perfect 
and may be kept for two years or even longer. It is 
quite easy to grow mushrooms In any quantity, and 
they can be preserved in the same way. They form a 
most palatable and wholesome dish, and it 1s difficult 
to understand why they should be imported year after 
year at great cost, when the means of growing them is 
so simple and so inexpensive. 


We should strongly advise every one to have a little iron 
stove with an oven, such‘as can be procured at Roorkee or 
from England, as it is very difficult to regulate the heat of the 
common ovens found in an Indian Kitchen, and it 1s almost 
impossible to make light pastry except in a good oven, 


GENERAL DIRECTIONS AND REMARKS, 


KITCHEN UTENSILS. 


1 Large Iron Fish Kettle or 
Ham Boiler. 

6 Copper Stewpans with 
covers, of various sizes. 

2 Copper Saucepans or Sauté- 
pans. 

3 Iron Saucepans 

Frying pans, (1 enamelled 

for Omelets). 

Iron Spits for roasting. 

Brass Pestle and Mortar. 

Marble ,, 9 

Tin Dripping Pan. 

Basting Ladle. 

Meat saw. 

Chopper. 

Wooden Skewers. 

Plated ” 

Cook’s Knives. 

Forks. 

Roasting Fork. 

Fluted Gridiron. 

Fish Slice, 

Egg 5, 

Iron Tea Kettle. 

Small Block-Tin Kettle. 

Wire-frying Basket. 

Box of plain round Cutters. 

Grater. 


Ww 


meme NN ON ON ett tt) 


I Small Grater. 

6 Iron Spoons. 

6 Wooden ,, 

1 Flour Dredger. 

Block-Tin Gravy-strainers. 

Dazen Tartlet Pans. 

Block-Tin Jelly Moulds, 
” 5» Cake Mould. 

Egg Whisk. 

Hair Sieves. 

Wire ,, 

Cullender. 

Tannery Cloth. 

Jellybag and Stand. 

Weighing Machine 
Weights. 


Le 


with 


I Steak Tongs. 
1 Biscuit Forcer. 
1 Wire Drainer. 


Some Larding Pins. 
5, Coarse Earthen-ware 
Bowls. 
9» Enamelled Cups, Plates, 
and Bowls. 
2 Boards, one for chopping 
on, one for pastry. 
2 Rolling Pins. 
1 Camp Oven. 
1 Dutch ,, 


We would in addition strongly recommended to every household 
Captain Warren’s Cooking Pot for making Soup, cooking Vegetables, 


and steaming Puddings. 


3 DAINTY DISHES FOR INDIAN TABLES. 


WEIGHTS AND MEASURES. 


We append a table of the Weights and Measures used in 
this volume :— 


24 tolahs equal to 1 oz. 
1 chittack. 


2 oz. or 5 tolahs , ”» 
16 oz. or 8 chittacks 9 ~=099~=OE:s«&spound. 
2 pounds »~—oyg~S os eer. 
40 seers yy ~99 +I maund. 
I quart 9 «99 2 pints=1 sr. - 


200z.or 4 soup ladles ,, ,, 1 pint. 
8 tablespoonsful ,, ,, 1 ladle. 


; 1 
I’ 5) ”9 9 9» ¥ OZ: 
d 1 
1 
I tea ” » 9 g OZ 


1 grn. (the 6oth part of a 
drachm.) 

An ordinary tumbler holds about } pint. 

When the term “gill” is used, it may be understood 


to mean a quarter of a pint. 


I cayenne ,, 9399 


SAUCES, CONDIMENTS, AND PICKLES. . 
1.—White Bechamel Sauce. 


Put the flour and butter into a degchee, and knead to- 
gether with a wooden spoon; 
add the vegetables cut into slices, 


Ingredients. 
4 oz. flour 
2 oz. butter 


1 onion, 1 bunch of parsley ‘ 

: small carrot the pepper and salt, and moisten 
1 . . . 
Fo ee ee a thyme with the milk. Stir over a clear 


t teaspoonful of salt 


1 saltspoonful of white pepper fire while it boils sharply for 
rg pint of milk : . 
twenty minutes, taking great care 
to stir all round the edges and the bottom so that it does 
not burn, then strain through a hair-sieve or coarse cloth 
and place in a basin for use. 


2.—White Sauce. 


(Two ways.) 
Boil the milk with the mace and lemon peel ; beat the eggs 


Ingredients, No. 1. with the cream. Strain the milk 
1g pint of new milk : : 
“ inch of mace and pour it by degrees into the 
2 inches of thin lemon peel : 
The yolks of 2 eggs eggs und cream, beating all the 
1 gill of good cream . : 
Ingredients, No. 2. time; then pour into a small 


3 oz. of fresh butter 


1 tablespoonful of baked flour saucepan and stir until it thick- 
% pint of milk 


2 tablespoonsful of cream ens, Serve irumediately. 

Boil the milk; knead the butter with the flour and stir 
into the milk; boil ten minutes, add the cream and serve 
at once. 

B 


— 


eS noe 


~~. 


ee rn A oe ee ee, 


| fe) DAINTY DISHES FOR INDIAN TABLES. 


3.—Bread Sauce. 


Put into a small saucepan the bread crumbs, onion, pep- 
per corns, cloves, salt, and milk; 
boil gently for twenty minutes 

3 peppercorns stiring constantly, then rub 

% eee onful of salt through a fine sieve or cloth; 
% of & Pint of new milk cover and let it stand for an 
2 tablespoonsful of ‘cream hour, put it back into the sauce- 
pan, stir in the butter or cream and serve at once in a 
tureen. 


Ingredients. 


3 02, of bread crumbs 
1 good sized onion 


4.—Onion Sauce. 


Peel and slice the onions and boil for ten minutes, drain 
and put them into a small deg- 


L dients. : 
ngredients chee with the butter and flour ; 


6 large onions 


e f id ° 
2 o2, of flour mix well, add the milk, pepper, 
int of milk . 
t saltspoonful of salt and salt, stir over the fire for 


t saltspoonful of pepper 


1 tablespoonful of cream ten minutes, add the cream and 


serve at once. 


5.—Soubise Sauce. 


Peel and slice the onions, and put them into a degchce 
with the butter, pepper, and salt ; 

Ingredients. . 

8 large onions cover and stew very slowly until 
2 oo etal of salt the onions are dissolved, but 
Ta of pepper they must not be allowed to 
2 ern po nealy Potatoes color. Add the flour, the pota- 
toes, and the milk, stir over the 

fire for fifteen minutes, rub through a seive or coarse cloth 
and keep hot in a covered degchee until used according 


to directions. - 


SAUCES, CONDIMENTS, AND PICKLES. II 


6—Maitre d’Hotel Sauce. 


Put the Bechamel sauce in a small degchee, and when it 
Ingredients. is hot stir in the butter, pars- 


1 gill of Bechamel. (No. 1) ley, pepper, salt, and lemon 
2 oz. of fresh butter 


1 tablespoonful of-chopped parsley juice; boil five minutes and 
1 teaspoonful of salt 


1 saltspoonful of pepper _ serve. 

1 teaspoonful of lemon juice 

Note.—If no Bechamal Sauce is prepared, use instead the same 
quantity of milk in which the bones of a fowl have been boiled for half 
an hour, and knead 2 oz. of butter and 1 oz. of flour into it. Boil ten 
minutes until quite thick, and then proceed as with the Bechamel. 


7.—Melted Butter. 


Knead the butter and flour in a small saucepan, add the 


Ingredients. water, pepper, and salt, and stir 
2 02. butter - over the fire till it thickens, but 
I oz. nour. e e e ° 
1 gill of water do not let it boil. Then stir in 
1 Saltspoonful of sale + ; . 
» 9 9 Pepper , a bit of butter the size of a 


walnut, or the yolk of an egg. 
Note.—A gill of milk may be substituted for the water. 


8.—Melted Butter. 


(Another way.) 
Mix the flour into the butter with a knife until it is perfect- 
Ingredients, ly incorporated with it; put it 
74 a bleapeemtfal a Arrowroot, or into a small saucepan with the 
plot a gill of mi or water salt and pepper, and milk or 
I yy salt water, and stir it a/ways one way 


until it presents the appearance of thick cream, but be 
careful not to let it boil. 
9.—Melted Butter for Vegetables. 


Prepare as No. 8, but at the moment of serving add the 
yolks of two eggs and two teaspoonsful of lemon juice. 


rd 
“ 


12 DAINTY DISHES FOR INDIAN TABLES. 


10.— Mayonnaise Sauce. 
When the eggs have been boiled quite hard and are cold, 


Ingredients. pound the yolks in a mortar» 
f s i * e 
Se ehee Dolled hard and add whilst pounding the 


teaspoonsful of salt 
tn ay, of dty mustard salt, mustard, and cayenne, and 
1 grain of cayenne 


12 tablespoonsful of Lucca oil the beaten yolks. When well 
2 ” Tarragon vinegar . . 
4 French vinegar mixed stir in drop by drop, first 


all the oil, and then the vinegar. Care must be taken to 
stir all the time and always the same way. Cover the 
mortar and let it stand in a cool place for three hours, or 
on ice for one. The excellence of this sauce depends on 
the making, and it should look like rich smooth cream. 


The quantities given are sufficient for a Mayonnaise for 
eight or ten people. 


11.— Mayonnaise Sauce. 
(Another way.) 
Beat the yolks of the eggs; then stir in the oil (always one 


Ingredients. way ) drup by drop, then the 
3 yolks of eggs vinegar, and continue stirring 


6 teaspoonsful of fresh oil . . . 
3 os of white vinegar = until the sauce looks like thick 
A little parsle 


Some choppe eschalots cream; add the eschalots and 
pinch of pepper (white) 

1 saltspoonful of salt parsley (chopped as fine as pos- 

sible) and the pepper and salt. 


12.—Tartar Sauce. 


This is made in the same way as Mayonnaise Sauce, only 
the proportions of the eggs are eight boiled to four raw ones, 
and when about to serve add a teaspoonful of finely chop- _ 
ped chives, green onions, or shalot, and a teaspoontul of 
chopped gherkin. 


SAUCES, CONDIMENTS, AND PICKLES. 13 


13.—Horse Radish Sauce. 
Grate the horse radish, put it into a basin, and blend it 
with the cream, add the vinegar, 


Iugredients. . 
2 tablespoonsful of grated horse Salt, and mustard, and hold it 
radis os . 
4 tablespoonsful of cream over the fire till it thickens, 
3 dessertspoonsful of vinegar . , . 
« teaspoonful of salt stirring it all the time, but on 


1 dessertspoonful of made mus- ; . _ 
tard no account let it boil. Then 
serve in a sauceboat. 
14.—Dutch Sauce. 
Put the raw yolks, the butter, cream, pepper, salt and 


Ingredients. vinegar into a small saucepan, 
Iks of egg: a 
5 oe. of butter and place this within a degchee 
14 gill of cream oe . 
¢ saltspoonful of salt containing one pint of hot water. 
1 of pepper 


1 teaspoonful of elder vinegar Put it on the fire and whisk it 
briskly either with a wire whisk or a small wooden spoon 
till it thickens and looks like rich yellow cream. Great 
care must be taken that the sauce does not curdle, and 
therefore the fire must not be too fierce. If however it 
should curdle, add the yolks of two more eggs, or a desert- 
spoonful of white sauce. 


15.—Celery Sauce. 
Thoroughly cleanse the celery and slice it very thin ; 


Ingredients put it into a degchee with the 
4 heads of celery salt, pepper, butter, and the 
1 saltspoonful of pepper . . 
1 teaspoonful of salt sliced onion ; cover the degchee 
4 oz. of butter . 
1 onion, sliced and set it on a slow fire to stew 
4 oz. of flour . . . 
1 pint of milk until the celery is dissolved, but 


not colored. Then add the flour and milk; stir over the 
fire and let it boil for twenty minutes, then rub through a 


Sieve or coarse cloth, and keep in a small degchee ready for 
use as directed. 


14 DAINTY DISHES FOR INDIAN TABLES. 


16.—Oyster Sauce. 
Take off the beards and put the oysters into a basin 


Ingredients, of cold water with the lemon- 
tin of oyst oe . . 
5 on of butter juice. Boil the beards in the 
1 oz. of flour . : . 
1 gill of cream (or milk) liquor with a grain of cayenne 
1 teaspoonful of lemon-juice . 
1 grain of cayenne for ten minutes, knead _ the 


butter with the flour and mix into the liquor, stir in the 
cream, drain the oysters, put them into the same, boil 
five minutes, and serve at once. 


17.—Apple Sauce. 


Peel, core, and slice the apples, and put them into a 
Iugredients. small saucepan with the sugar, 

6 appl 

on of moist sugar lemon, butter, and water; stew 

The rind of half lemon . . . 

A piece of butter (the size of a over a slow fire till quite in a 

walnut) . 

1 gill of water pulp, rub through a sieve of 


coarse cloth, and serve very hot. 


Note.—This Sauce can be made with preserved apples. 


18.—Green Sauce. 
(for boiled Chicken or botled Mutton. ) 


Put the milk into a saucepan; knead the flour with 
the butter and stir into the 


Ingredients. 

1 cupful of Pate greening milk ; then add the _ lemon- 
1 teaspoonful of lemon-juice te 1 d 
1 of sugar ulce, sugar, salt, an r 
\% pint of the mille which the J . ? gat, . ? Pepper, 

first has been boiled boil for ten minutes, carefully 
1 saltspoonful of salt to. ne ok . 
1 1 Of pepper stirring until it thickens; then 
2 oz. of butter ; ’ 
1 oz of flour. add the greening and serve, 


poured over the fowl or mutton. 


This is a most excellent sauce, and may also be eaten 
with boiled lamb. 


SAUCES, CONDIMENTS, AND PICKLES. T5 


19.—Ketchup Sauce. 
(for Steaks and Mutton Chops.) 


Ingredients. Stir all the ingredients together 
r claret glass of red wine . 
»47:Of ketchup over the fire for 5 minutes, and 
1 piece of butter (the size of a 
walnut) serve, poured over the steak or 
1 saltspoonful of pepper 
1 teaspoonful of vinegar chops. 


20.—Sauce Appetissante. 


Work the sugar into the mustard, then add all the other 
ingredients one by one, stirring 


Ingredients. . 
t dessertspoonful of mustard all the time. When they are 
2 ” oa arveys Well blended put the sauce into 


sauce . : : 
1 teaspoonful of shalot vinegar a degchee ; put In any slices of 


r tablespoonful of claret cold meat and let it cook till hot, 
but not boil. Then serve. 


21.—Butter Sauce. 
(For kidneys and broiled meat. ) 


Ingredients. : : .° 
4 02. of butter Mix all the ingredients well 
x saltspoonful of sat together, and keep an hour in 
a cool place. Then serve in a 
I» of lemon juice 
¥ grain of cayenne sauceboat. 


of pepper 
2 teaspoonsful of chopped pars- 


22.—Sauce for cold Pheasant. 


Ingredients. Chop the shalot as fine as pos- 
1 small shalot ‘ : : 
1 teaspoonful of mustard sible, add all the other ingredi- 
I - of oi . 
rt =, _ of vinegar ents, one by one, mix thoroughly, 
of ketchup 


saltspoonful of salt and serve in a sauceboat. 


16 DAINTY DISHES FOR INDIAN TABLES. 


* 


23.—Cream Sauce. 
Boil the milk with the mace; beat the yolks and add 


Ingredients. 


¥% pint of milk 

¥ inch of mace 

Yolks of two eggs 

3 tablespoonsful of cream 


them to the milk while it is hot 
but not boiling ; stir over the fire 
till it is as thick as cream, then 
strain into a basin. Add three 


tablespoonsful of cream, stir in quickly. Serve as directed. 


Note.—Small mushrooms added to this sauce are a great improve- 
ment. In this case fry them in butter for five minutes. 


24.—German Sauce. 
(For Asparagus or Seakale. ) 


Mix the baked flour and the cream; stir it over the 


Ingredients. 


1 tablespoonful of baked flour 
lg pint of cream 

1 yolk 

¥% oz. of butter 

1 pinch of white pepper 

Toy ” . . 

1 teaspoonful of white vinegar 


fire until it begins to thicken; 
then add the yolk of the egg 
beaten, the butter, pepper, salt, 
and vinegar ; stir until well mixed, 
and serve. 


25.—Maitre D’Hotel Butter. 


Ingredients. 


4 02. fresh water 
1 teaspoonful of finely chop- 


ped parsley 
¥4 teaspoouful of finely chopped 
onions 
¥ saltspoonful of salt 
A ” of pepper 
The juice of one lemon 


Put all the ingredients into a 
small basin, stir them well to- 
gether with a spoon, and keep 
in a cool place until required for 
use as directed. 


26.—Anchovy Butter. 
Clean the anchovies ; split them and take out the bones, 


Ingredients. 
6 anchovies 
2 oz. butter 
1 grain cayenne 


1 dessertspoonful of anchovy 


sauce 


pound them in a mortar with 
all the other ingredients, rub 
through a sieve, and use as 
directed. 


SAUCES, CONDIMENTS, AND PICKLES. 17 


27.—Epicurean Butter. 


Take a large handful of tarragon, parsley, chervil, and 


Ingredients. 


Tarragon 
Parsley 
Chervils 
Chives 

6 anchovies 


t tablespoonful of capers 
I ” of Oude sauce 


4 oz, butter 


chives in equal proportions ;_par- 
boil and squeeze in a cloth; add 
the anchovies, (cleaned), the 
capers, sauce and butter ; put all 
the ingredients into a mortar, 


pound thoroughly, rub through a sieve and use as directed. 


Ingredients. 


x teacupful of tomato sauce 
x dessertspoonful of vinegar 
x teaspoonful of baked flour 


28.—Tomato Sauce. 


Put the sauce and vinegar into a small degchee; knead 


34 oz. of fresh butter. 


the butter with the flour, and 
stir it into the sauce for five mi- 
nutes. Serve as directed. 


29.—Parsley Sauce. 


Chop one handful of parsley fine, and boil three minutes; 
drain and put it into melted butter or any other white 
sauce. (See Nos. 1, 2, 7, 8.) 


30.—Tapp Sauce. 


Pound the first seven articles until they are well mixed, 


Ingredients. 


Green mangoes, 
Salt, 

Red chillies, 

Chilli vinegar, 

Moist sugar, 
Raisins, 

Green ginger, 

3 bottles of vinegar 
2 pint of lime juice 


8 oz 
B oz 
4 OZ 
1 gill 
8 oz 
8 oz 
6 oz 


then stir in the vinegar and lime- 
juice. Put it into jars, cover 
them and put them in the sun 
every day, after which stir them 
well and cover again. Do this 
for a month, then strain through 


coarse muslin and bottle for use. 
The remainder makes excellent chutnee. 


18 DAINTY DISHES FOR INDIAN TABLES. 


31.—Ne-plus-ultra Chutnee. 
Wash and dry the mustard seed in the sun; then gently 


Ingredients. bruise to remove the _ husks. 
Salt SUBAr seer Slice the ginger, garlic, and chil- 
G I . ° ° 
Green ginger I 4; lies very thin. Boil the sugar to 
Mustard eed, X45 
Raisin 1 a syrur, peel and cut the mangoes 
Dried ‘chillies with . . . 
the seeds extracted 1 ,, into small pieces and boil them 
Good vinegar, 4 bottles . . 
Unripe mangoes 55 in the vinegar of three bottles ; 


then stand till cold. Mix all the ingredients together and 


add the remaining bottle of vinegar. Then bottle for use. 


Note—Should the Chutnee become dry at any time, add a little vin- 
egar to moisten it. 


32.—Mushroom Ketchup. 


Put the mushrooms and salt into an earthen pan, stir 


Ingredients, together and let them stand 
ae event twelve hours. Then drain off the 
x ofa on brused ginger pute liquor by pressing it through a 
10 cloves sieve. Add all the ingredients, 


z saltspoonful of allspice 
I teaspoonful of whole pepper except the claret, put the whole 
6 corns of long pepper 


1 blade of mace into a degchee and boil slowly, 
x small onion 


1 piece of garlic, the sizeofapea Skimming frequently for two 

2 inches of horse radish, chopped . 

2 glasses of claret hours. Then boil fast for twenty 
minutes, skimming constantly. Pour the ketchup into a 
earthen pan, and when quite cold strain it, add the claret, 
and bottle it. Cork it closely, and keep two months before 
using it. 

33.— Pickled Walnuts. 


Boil three pounds of salt in two gallons of water for ten 


Ingredients. minutes, pour it into an earthen 
s. of y Inuts . 
4 OS OF rae Walnuts pan, and when cold put in the 


I f the best . 
} oe of bruised ee cee “Bar nuts and let them remain twelve 


SAUCES, CONDIMENTS, AND PICKLES. 19 


Ingredients of Pickled Walnuts. ours; then pour off the brine, 
6 blades of mace (bruised) 


20 cloves add some fresh made in the same 
¥% oz. of peppercorns . 
34 oz. of mustard seed manner and proportions, and let 
x clove of garlic 

shalots It stand twelve hours longer. 


Drain off the brine and lay the walnuts in the sun until they 
turn black; turn them frequently. Boil the vinegar with 
all the other ingredients ; place the walnuts in large jars ; 
pour the vinegar over, boiling hot; put an equal quantity of 
the spice into each jar, and when cold tie them down and 
keep for three months before using. 


34.—Tomato Sauce. 
’ The tomatoes must be ripe, and gathered in dry wea- 


Ingredients. ther. Wipe them with a soft 
14 tbs. of tomatoes cloth and slice them; peel and 
4 Spanish onions . ; 
2 ounces of shalot slice the onions, the shalot and 
¥% of an oz, of garlic ; . 
I »» Of mace : 
: ae of braised ginger garlic; put them into a degchee 
of cayenne H i 1 . 
3 OE ood vinewar with the spices and vinegar; 
1 » of strong old ale skim and stir frequently and 


simmer for two hours. Add the ale and boil moderately fast 
for half an hour, or till the sauce thickens. Rub the whole 
through a coarse hair sieve, or cloth, and then through a 
fine one; put it into dzy wide-mouthed bottles, and when 
cold cork tightly and seal over the top. 


35.—Sauce for cold Fish. 


Ingredients, 


* teaspoonful of amu All these put in the order in 


I of salt . 

1 ” of black pepper which they are enumerated and 

1 of re ; . . 

2 tablespoonsful of oi =” well mixed. Serve in a sauceboat. 
of vinegar 


: dessertspoonful of sherry 


20 DAINTY DISHES FOR INDIAN TABLES. 


36.—Another Sauce for cold Fish. 


lagredients. 


2 yolks of eggs (boiled hard) 


2 teaspoonful of black pepper All the ingredients to be well 


6 99 +P 

” »» red r ° ° 
ee ade mustard = Mixed, always stirring one way, 
I > >, chopped parsle 

and chives. and poured over the cold fish as 
5% » anchovy sauce ; 
3 tablespoonsfut of oil directed. 
x dessertspoonful of vinegar 
x ” ef Tarragon vi- 

negar 


37.—Oxford Brawn Sauce. 


Ingredients, . . 
x tablespoonful of brown sugar Mix well and serve with 


1 teaspoonful of made mustard 
T saltepoonful of salt brawn, calf’s-feet, or any cold 


” of pepper 
2 tablespoonsful of very good-oil meat. 
2 ” of vinegar 


38 —Christopher North’s Own Sauce. 


Ingredients. 
x saltspoonful of | cayenne ° ° . 
(powdered) Put all these ingredients into 
of salt - . 
1 small desertspoonful of small basin ; mix them well. 


r tablespoonfal of strained Put the basin into a saucepan 


lemon-juice 


2 oz. of Harvey's sauce of boiling water to heat it; mix 
1 teaspoonful of mushroom . ee 
ketchup it for some hours before it is 


3 tablespoonsful of port wine . 

A few drops of garlic, or served, and then use as directed. 
eschalot vinegar may be 
added if liked 


39—Chutney Sauce. 


Mince the raisins, tamarinds and garlic quite fine. Boil 


Ingredients. the apples in half of the vinegar 

T Tb: oF tamarind? toned till they are a soft pulp. Boil 
! ; . 

3 ths. of garlic, peeled the sugar in the rest of the vin- 


cored, and sliced 


I Ib. of coarse brown sugar egar till in a clear syrup. When 
1h of sal of vinegar 


of salt these are guife cold, mix the 


SAUCES, CONDIMENTS, AND PICKLES. 21 


et anee of Chutney Sauce. whole of the ingredients toge- 

of an oz. cayenne . . 

2 oz. of ground ginger ther and stir well with a wooden 

3 oz. of yellow mustard-seed, . . 
pounded spoon. Put the mixture into 


wide-mouthed bottles, cork them closely, tie bladder over 
the corks, and place the bottles in a warm closet near the 
fire for three weeks; turn the bottles every day. Keep for 
six months before using, and serve with curries. 


22 DAINTY DISHES FOR INDIAN TABLES, 


CURRY POWDERS. 


Calcutta Curry Powder. 


1 . teaspoonful of turmeric. 
1 tablespoonful of coriander-seed. 


I 9 ” poppy-seed. 
¥%Z teaspoonful of ginger. 
yy ” », red chilli. 
A » », cummin-seed. 


The seeds should be of the finest quality, well dried, 
pounded, and mixed. 


Madras Curry Powder. 


drachms of turmeric. 
chillies. 

grains of mustard-seed. 
drachms of corlander-seed. 
grains of cummin-seed. 
drachms of poppy-seed. 
Pound and mix. 


Ny N NHN N fF N 


Mr. Arnott’s Curry Powder. 


oz. of turmeric. 

4) 9) Corlander-seed. 
”» 97 cummin-seed, 

9» 9) Poenugreek-seed. 
99 9) Cayenne, 


SM» & A Oo 


nm rm a ee ee - ree 


( -- AN Se a 


SOUPS, BROTHS, &c. 


a Ce 


1.—Stock No. 1. 


Four Quarts. 
Rub your degchee six times across the bottom with 


Ingredients, 


Garlic 
to ibs, fresh-killed shin.of. beef. 
1 pint of water 
¥% of alb. lean ham 
3 onions, 3 carrots 
A small head of celery 
4 Cloves, 6 allspice 
10 peppercorns 
A large black onion, (see page 3) 
A tablespoonful of brown sugar 
A teaspoonful of mustard 
A teaspoonful of salt 


garlic. Put in the beef and 

pint of water; let it stand by 
the fire an hour, then add all 
the ingredients. Simmer and 
skim frequently for six hours. 
Strain through a fine hair sieve 
(or a coarse cloth) which has been 


dipped in cold water into an earthen pan (uncovered), and 


when cold remove the fat. 


Note.—In India the stock should be made every day, therefore 
judgment must be used as to the quantity required. 


2.—Stock No. 2. 


Four Quarts. 
Put all the ingredients into a degchee, simmer gently 


Ingredients. 
I knuckle of veal (7 Ibs.) 


cow hee 

A fresh-killed old fow! 

A turnip, 2 onions 

A lettuce, r blade of mace 
\ of a nutmeg 
% |b. (4 chittacks) lean ham 

1 teaspoonful of salt 

A small bunch of sweet herbs 
6 quarts of water 


and skim frequently for six 
hours. Strain through a fine 
hair sieve (or a coarse cloth) that 
has been dipped in cold water into 
an earthen pan (uncovered), and 
when cold remove the fat. 


Note.—Two fresh truffles will be found a great improvement to both 


stocks. 


D 


26 DAINTY DISHES FOR INDIAN TABLES. 


3.—Calf’s Foot Stock. 
Split the two feet, put them into a degchee with the 
‘water, and simmer for five hours 
2 calves feet very gently; skim _ frequently. 
Five pints of water Strain through a fine hair sieve 
(or a coarse cloth) that has been dipped in cold water 
into an uncovered earthen pan, and the next morning take 
off every particle of fat. 


Ingredients. 


4.—Glaze. 


Glaze is made by boiling any kind of stock till it is 
reduced to the consistency of cream. 


5.—Stock Fat. 


Have a saucepan of boiling water by the side of the 
stock-pot; when the scum has all been removed and fat 
only rises, skim it off the stock, and throw it into the water 
in the saucepan. Pour it all together into a basin, and next 
day well wash the fat and boil it in a degchee until it becomes 
quite clear. It will then be fit for any use, and will supply 
the place of ghee, butter, and oil. 


6.—Stock Meat. 


Stock meat may be made into a very savoury dish as 


Ingredients. follows :—for every pound (3 seer) 
roe pound of stock meat  4f meat mix all the ingredients, 
2 saltspoonsful of vat pepper leaving out the yolk of the egg. 
ate part of a nutmeg When well mixed form into cakes 
res of % lemon grated half inch thick ; dip them into 


teaspoonful of chopped 
parsley the beaten yolks of the egg, 


SOUPS, BROTHS, &C. 27 


ng renee de es Meat. dredge them with Jdaked flour, 
% Y% saltspoontal Of mixerherbs and fry in the dripping for eight 


2 oz. of good dripping or butter 


1 egg or ten minutes. 


Note.—Stock meat is also very good chopped and mixed with salad. 


7.—Jelly Stock Meat. 


Remove the bones, cut the meat into small pieces, season 


Ingredients. with salt and pepper, and add 
F f's-feet : : : 
eel evel arp salt all the ingredients. Make a 


14 teaspoonful of Tarragon vine. tablespoonful hot, rub it with 

The strained juice of %lemon fresh cut garlic, stir the meat 
well with it, and press it into a plain mould. This is good 
for breakfast or supper, and is improved by being garnished 
with aspic jelly and hard boiled eggs neatly cut. 


8.—Economical Stock. 


This is prepared in the same way as No. 1 Stock, only 
instead of the fresh-killed beef, use any bones, old joints, 
carcasses of fowls or ducks or game, the bones being well 
broken up. It may be improved by the addition of one 
pound of lean beef chopped fine, pounded and mixed with 
one quart of cold water and two whites of eggs. 


9.—Clear Gravy Soup. 
| (Two Quarts.) 
Peel, scrape, wash, drain and slice the onion, carrot, 
Ingredients. turnip, celery, and fry them to a 
2 oz. butter | pale brown color in the butter. 


I onion, 1 Carrot 


4 turnip, 14 head of celery Boil the stock and put in the 


28 DAINTY DISHES FOR INDIAN TABLES. 


Ingredients for Clear Gravy Soup. vegetables, salt, sugar, cayenne, 
1 saltspoonful of salt 


yet  loaf-sugar and saffron. Boil gently for 3 
Y% grain of cayenne ae 8 y A 
44 Brain saffron of an hour, skimming frequently. 


5 pints (4 seers) of stock, No. 1 . . 
1 small wine glass of Marsala Strain ; put the soup into a clean 


degchee, and boil fast (uncovered) for ten or fifteen 
minutes. Then set it aside to settle. Put the wine into 
the soup-tureen, pour in the soup, and serve. 


Note.—Eggs carefully poached and floating in the soup are an 
improvement. 


10—Thick Gravy Soup. 


This is made in the same way as the clear soup, with 
three tablespoonsful of baked flour mixed with a gill afcold 
water, and a teaspoonful of mushroom ketchup added. 


11.—Julien Soup. 


Clean and cut the vegetables into small slices, and put 


Ingredients. them into a degchee with the salt, 
2 carrots, 1 turntp . 
‘The white part of a leek (or sugar, vinegar, and the cold water. 
spring onions) ‘ ; 
% head of celery, (or a small Boil till tender, about twenty 
endive 
1 teaspoonful of har minutes, then drain. Boil the 
1 ” ” - . 
t " » vinegar 
' quart’ of cold water stock, put in the vegetables, and 
14 grain cayenne . 
* Mablespoonstul of sherry boil moderately fast (uncovered) 
AS ay 2 Pane oF sive for half an hour. Add _ the 


cayenne and the sherry, and serve at once. 


Volte.—Green peas and asparagus, a teacupful of each, are an 
improvement. 


12.—Almond Soup. 


This may be considered the very best of white soups. 


i) 
tT 


SOUPS, BROTHS, &cC. 29 


Ingredients of Almond Soup. 


A good fowl 

4 0z. blanched and pounded 
almonds 

1 tablespoonful of cream 

2 tablespoonsful of baked flour 

5 pints of stock, (No. 2) 

The white heart of a lettuce 

x dessertspoonful of loaf sugar 

r teaspoonful of salt 

2 fresh eggs 

2 oz. of butter 


Put the fowl and the lettuce into 
the stock, boil up slowly, and 
then simmer for eighteen min- 
utes. Take out the fowl, cut off 
all the white meat, and put back 
the bones and trimmings into 
the pot with the sugar and salt. 


Simmer for 14 hours, and then rub through acloth. Pound 
the white meat of the fowl with the almonds, and blend 
with the eggs beaten with the cream, then pass through a 
coarse cloth. Put the soup into a degchee, rubbed twice 
across the bottom with garlic. Mix the paste, work the flour 
and butter together, and mix them with the fowl paste, stir it 
into the soup, simmer the whole for half an hour, and 


serve. 


13.—Green Pea Soup. 


(Two Quarts.) 
Wash the spinach, mint, lettuce and onions ; leave them 


Ingredients. 

2 handsful of young spinach 

2 sprigs of mint ~ 

1 large lettuce 
12 spring onions ; 

3 tablespoonsful of moist sugar 
1 quart of old peas 

¥% pint of young peas 

1 teaspoonful of salt 

I ” of loaf sugar 
3 pints of stock 
2 tablespoonsful of baked flour, 
2 oz. of butter cS 

1 quart of water 


in cold water with the sugar for 
two hours. Shell the old peas, 
and put them with the soaked 
vegetables into a degchee contain- 
ing one quart of boiling water. 
add the salt and loaf sugar, and 
boil fast (uncovered) for an hour. 
Then add the stock; stir fre- 


quently, knead the flour with the butter, and stir in for 10 


minutes. 


Rub the whole through a fine hair sieve, (or coarse cloth) 
put it back into the stew-pan and boil up; shell the young 


30 DAINTY DISHES FOR INDIAN TABLES. 


peas, put them into the soup, stir frequently, and boil fast 
(uncovered) for 20 minutes, and serve. 


Note.—The soup should be pale green in color and of the consis- 
tency of cream ; if it is not green enough, adda little spinach greening 
(see recipe) until the right color is attained. 


14.—Oyster Soup. 


Take the beards off the oysters, and throw them into a 

Ingredients. pint of cold water with the strain- 
quae ae (No. 2) ed lemon juice, and let them stand 
peapeanuer a] lemon juice. till wanted. Put the beards into 
en tpn ey the stock, and let them boil up. 
Mix the baked flour with half a pint of the oyster liquor 
taken out of the degchee and then stir it into the soup and 
boil fast for a quarter of an hour. Strain through a fine 
sieve or cloth ; take the oysters out of the water, put them 
into a degchee and pour the soup over. Boil fast for eight 


minutes, stir in the cream, and serve. 


mi ome 


15.—Macaroni Soup. 


Break the macaroni into inch lengths and soak it in cold 


Ingredients. water for an hour; drain. Put 
Uy Ib. Naples macaroni . . 
* pints stock, (No. ), into the degchee three pints of the 
+ tablespoonsful grated parmesan cee 
1 teaspoonful fresh-made mus- stock (boiling hot), the cheese, 

tard 

t saltspoonful of salt mustard, salt and sugar, and 
1 saltspounful of loaf sugar . . 
1 wineglass of marsala. simmer gently for an hour, stir- 


ring frequently. Add the rest of the stock (two pints) and 
the marsala. Boil slowly for 10 minutes longer, and serve 
with a separate dish of grated Parmesan cheese. 


SOUPS, BROTHS, &XC. 31 


16.—Vermicelli Soup. 


Follow the preceding receipt exactly, substituting ver 
micelli for macaroni, and boiling ro minutes less. 


17.—Mock Turtle Soup. 


Peel, scrape, wash and slice the vegetables, and fry them 


Ingredients. in quarter of a pound of the butter 
A small calf's head till of a pale brown color. Put the 
2 )bs. of lean veal . ; 
2 Ibs. of fresh lean beef veal and beef into a degchee with 
% |b. of lean ham (or tongue) a ; 
3 onions one pint of cold water and let it 
1 large head of celery 
2 fares carrois stand by the side of the fire for 
r smal! bunch of mixed sweet an hour to draw out the gravy ; 
1 bunch of parsley 
3 sage leaves . then add the vegetables, ham, 

r $s * 
cloves ace herbs, peppercorns, cloves, mace, 
I ade or m ° 
1 piece of garlic, the size of a garlic, salt, and sugar, the head 
a . . 
1 teaspoonful of salt (with the skin on) uppermost 
ta nful of loar sugar . 

i gill of mar la eb . - and four quarts of cold water. 
tablespoonsful of baked flour : . . . 
u ‘slightly browned Boil up quickly and skim. Put in 

\% lb. of butter . 
2 grains of cayenne the marsala and simmer gently 
1 teaspoonful of flour of mus- . . 

tard for two hours, skimming frequent- 
1 saltspoonful of white pepper ; 
1 saltspoonful of salt ly. Take out the head, pull out 


1 dessertspoonful of soy . 
1 teaspoonful of anchovy sauce the bones, and trim off all the 


1 ” », lemon juice 

1 wineglass of good sherry rough pieces; put the meat be- 
tween two dishes, with a heavy weight on the upper 
one, and let it get cold. Put the bones and trimmings 
into the pot and simmer constantly. Knead quarter h. 
of the butter with the flour, mustard, cayenne, pepper 
and salt, and stir this with the soup. Add the soy and 
anchovy sauce. Boil for quarter of an hour, and strain 
through a fine sieve or cloth. Cut the meat of the head 


into inch-square pieces ; put it into the soup with the lemon 


32 DAINTY DISHES FOR INDIAN TABLES. 


juice, simmer 20 minutes, pour in the sherry, and serve 
immediately with cut lemons handed round. 


18.— Pea Fowl Mulligatawny Soup. 


Clean and cut up the bird, separate all the joints and 


Ingredients. 


A Pea Fowl 

6 peppercorns 

4 cloves 

x blade of mace 

"x piece of garlic, (the size of 
a pea 

oniuns sliced 

oz. of butter 


put it into a degchee with three 
quarts of water, and the spices ; 
when it boils, skim it and let it 
simmer for two hours ; then strain. 
Take some of the bits of meat 


« tablespoonsful of baked flour 


2 dessertspoonsful of curry and the sliced onions, and fry 


+ tedspoonful of salt until brown in the butter. Add 
them to the broth and simmer half an hour. Then mix the 
baked flour, curry powder, and salt, and stir into the soup ; 
let it simmer for half an hour, and serve with rice (dressed 
as for curry,) handed round in a separate dish, and cut 
lemons on a plate. 


19.—Mulligatawny Soup 
Roast the fowl before a quick fire for half an hour, and 


vod & ingredients. baste with the butter ; put it aside 
A . . 

6.08. of butter till cold. Peel and slice the 
1 large apple . 

2 he Rear of' lettuce apple, onions, and the lettuce, 


and fry until colored, in the butter 
with which the fowl was basted. 
Cut the white meat off the fowl 
into pieces one inch square, break 
the bones and put them into a 

: teaspoonful of lemon juice degchee with the trimmings, vege- 
tables, cocoanut, tamarind, curry powder, flour, salt, mint, 


2 oz. of cocoanut 
1 dessertspoonful of tamarind 
2 tablespoonsful of curry powder 
2 of flour 
1 teaspoonful. of salt 
4 leaves of mint 
1 teaspoonful of loaf sugar 
I r quart of water 
uart and % pint of stock 
“¢ 0. 2) 


SOUPS, BROTHS, &C. 33 


loaf sugar and water. Boil 114 hours, and strain through a 
fine sieve or cloth. Add to this the stock and the pieces of 
simmer very gently for half an hour. Stir in the lemon, 
fowl, and juice and cream, and serve immediately with a 
dish of boiled rice, and some cut lemons on a plate. 


20.—Partridge Soup. 
Roast the partridges, and while they are roasting cut up 


Ingredients. the vegetables and put them with 
2 Partridges the ham and spices into a stew- 
> onions _— pan to fry with the butter until 
= bunch of parsley they are brown. Cut the fillets 
A little th : 
6 cloves out of the birds, and put them 
s blade of mace : : 
4 shalots aside in a plate; pound the car- 
2 oz. of butter . 
2 quarts of ‘stock,(No. 1) - casses, bones and all, in a mortar, 
1 glass of sherry . . 
1 grain of cayenne and put them into a degchee with 


the fried vegetables and one quart of water. Boil 1% 
hours, and strain through a fine sieve or cloth. Cut the 
fillets of the birds into small strips, and put them into 
the strained soup with the stock ; simmer zezy gently for 
half an hour, pour in the sherry, add the grain of cayenne 
and serve. | 


Note.—Pheasants, snipe, rabbits, and hares, may be prepared in the 
same way. 
21.—Potato Soup. 


Peel and slice the potatoes, slice the onions, and put them 
in a degchee with the butter, 


Ingredients. 
x dozen good potatoes pepper, salt, and stock, and boil 
onions 
¢ 02. of butter gently for one hour. Then rub 
1 saltspoonful of pepper . . 
tT yy Salt through a sieve or cloth, put it 


yi 


34 DAINTY DISHES FOR: INDIAN TABLES. 


Ingredients of Potato Soup. back into a degchee, simmer for 


¥% pint of cream (or 3% pint 
of milk with 2 yolksof eggs half an. hour, add the cream, 


beaten in it) . . . . 
2 quarts of stock(No. 2) and serve immediately with fried 


sippets on a separate dish. 


22.—Knuckle of Veal and Rice Soup. 


Cut the veal into six pieces, sawing the bone through 
neatly. Put the pieces into a 


Ingredients, 
A knuckle of veal degchee, and stew until all the 
2 quarts of water . 
4 onions “* meat is off the bones. Set the 
2 turnips . . . 
2 carrots good pieces of meat aside, strain 
1 head of celery ; 
6 peppercorns the broth, and skim off the 
1 teaspoonful of salt 
% of a lb. of rice fat. Add all the vegetables, 


the peppercorns, and the salt to the broth, and boil for 
half an hour. Put the best pieces of the veal into the 
soup. Half boil the rice separately, add it to the soup, 
boil half an hour, and serve hot. 


23.—Celery Soup. 


Slice the celery and the ham, and put them into a deg- 


chee with the butter and one pint 
Ingredients. 


6 heads of celery of the stock. Simmer very gent- 
1% 3 guar stock, (No. 2) ly until the celery is quite soft ; 
flour 


2 pint of cream (or milk with 2 then add the flour, mixing it well 
yoiks of egys beaten in) . . - 
in; pour in the remainder of the 
stock, and stir the soup over the fire for 20 minutes. Rub 
it through a steve or cloth, put into a degchee, boil for five 
minutes, pour in the cream, and serve with fried sippets 
handed round separately. 


- SOUPS, BROTHS, &c. 35 


24.—Italian Soup. 


( This soup may be made either with duck, fowl, pheasant, 
partridge, or rabbit. ) 
Half roast the bird and put it into a degchee with 


Ingredients. 


t duck 
4 oz, of raw ham 
2 onions 
6 ripe tomatoes 
x head of celery 
x Carrot 
4 shalots 
x small bunch of sweet herbs 
x blade of mace 
4 cloves 
1 peppercorns 
r pint of stock 
x glass of Marsala 
2 anchovies 
x teaspoonful of capers 
I grain of cayenne 


all the vegetables sliced, and 
the spices. Moisten with the 
stock and the wine, boil slowly 
for two hours. Add two quarts 
of water and simmer for one 
hour. Skim and _= strain the 
liquor into a pan; reserve the 
bird on a plate; pound all 
the vegetables in a mortar, and 


put this pulp into a degchee; pour the liquor out of the 
pan into the degchee and stir it over the fire till it boils; 
skim it well; make a paste of the capers, anchovies, and 
cayenne, and stir it into the soup; cut the fowl into neat 
slices about an inch long, put it into the tureen, and pour 


the soup over it. 


25.—Scotch Hotch-Potch. 


Ingredicnts. 


3 serags of mutton 
2 quarts of water 
3 Carrots 
% turnip 
1 lettuce 
The heart of a young cabbage 
6 cutlets of mutton 
2 pint of green peas 
1 dessertspoonful of chopped 


parsley 
1 dessertspoonful of salt 
1 small cauliflower 
1 teaspoonful of pepper 


Put the scrags of the mutton and water into a degchee 


and stew ‘them till all the meat 
is off the bones; strain the 
broth and skim off the fat. Slice 
one of the carrots, the turnip, let- 
tuce and cabbage, and grate the 
ved part of the other two carrots. 
Add all these to the broth, and 
boil for half an hour; then put 


in the cutlets neatly trimmed, with the remainder of the 


36 DAINTY DISHES FOR INDIAN TABLES. 


ingredients ; simmer very gently for 114 hours, and serve all 
together, very hot. 
26.—Carrot Soup. 


Scrape, peel, and wash the carrots, onions, and celery, 
and put them into a degchee with 


Ingredients, 
9 carrots the water, vinegar, salt, sugar 
2 onions 
% head of celery and cayenne. Boil for 214 hours ; 
1% quarts of cold water . 
t tablespoonful of vinegar break up the vegetables in the 
x teaspoonful of salt ; 
1 dessertspoonful of sugar water, and when they are quite 
I grain of cayenne 


2 o2 af bute, pint of stock, in a pulp, rub the whole through 
No. 1) a fine hair-sieve or cloth; then 
stir in the butter. Add the stock, and put the whole 


into a degchee ; stir over the fire for 25 minutes, and serve. — 


Note.—The soup should be the color of carrots and of the consistency 
of cream. 


27.—Palestine Soup. 


Peel and wash the artichokes, onions and celery, put 


Ingredients. them into a degchee with the 
3 Ibs. of Jerusalem artichokes 
1 large onion ham, mace, sugar and stock, and 
1 small head of celery . 
2 oz. of lean ham boil (uncovered) for an hour. 


zr small blade of mace 


1 dessertspoonful of loaf sugar Knead the butter into the flour, 
2 quarts of stock, (No. 2) 


2 oz. of butter ir it into th 
3 tablespoonsful of baked flour and stir it into the soup for 20 
% pint of cream minutes. Rub the soup through 


a sieve or cloth with a wooden spoon. Put it back into the 
degchee, boil up ; skim if necessary, then stir in the cream 
and serve immediately. 


28.— White Onion Soup. 


Peel and slice the onions and potatoes ; put them into a 
degchee with the water, the sugar, salt, pepper, and the 


SOUPS, BROTHS, &C. 37 


Ingredients of White Onion Soup. crumb of the loaf. Boil fast for 


6 large onions two hours, rub the soup through a 
4 large potatoes . . . 

2 quarts of water fine sieve; put it back into the 
1 tablespoonful of loaf sugar ; 

x teaspoonful of salt degchee, and boil up. Beat the 
1 saltspoonful of white pe per 

The crumb of a smail lo 7 

5 eees (the yolks only) yolks with the Parmesan cheese, 


2 tablespoonsful of grated Par- and stir in for two minutes. Add 


mesan cheese 
3 pint of cream the cream, and serve at once. 


29.—Brown Onion Soup. 


Follow the preceding receipt, using two quarts of stock 
(No. 1) instead of water, and substituting a wineglassful of 
white wine for the eggs and cream. Stir in the cheese just 
before serving. 


30.—Pea Soup. 


Soak the peas in water for two hours and take out all that 
are black; put them into a deg- 


Ingredients. 

x pint of split peas (or dhall) chee with one quart of water, 
3 quarts of water : . 

2 Ibs. of beef or pork and let them simmer by the side of 
3 Onions . . . 

2 carrots celery the fire till quite soft. Boil the 
x turnip beef in two quarts of water with 
8 peppercorns 

1 saltspoonful of dried mint 1 7 
eon ful of moist cuvar the onions, carrots, celery, tur 
Footer at nip, peppercorns, mint, moist 
2 te sugar and salt. Boil gently for 
1 spoonful of var of two hours, strain the liquor, and 

mus 


put in the peas. Boil and skim 
until the peas are quite mixed with the soup. Knead 
the butter with the flour and the remaining ingredients, 
stir it into the soup, boil 20 minutes, rub through a sieve or 
cloth, and serve very hot, with fried sippets and powdered 
mint handed round on a separate plate. 


38 DAINTY DISHES FOR INDIAN TABLES. 


31.—Mutton Broth. 


Cut the mutton.into small pieces and put it into a deg- 


Ingredients. 


3 Ibs. of fresh sciag of mutton 

2 onions 

2 turnips 

é head of celery 

1 sprig of thyme 

1 sprig of majoram 
» of parsley 

quarts of water 

x teaspoonful of loaf sugar 

2 saltspoonsful of salt 

1 dessertspoonful of chopped 
parsley 


off all the fat. 


* 


vb 


chee with the onions, turnips, 
and celery, (all sliced) the thyme, 
majoram and parsley (all tied 
together) ; two quarts of water, 
the loaf sugar and salt. Boil 
up quickly, skim carefully and 
simmer for 3% hours. Skim 


Put the dessertspoonful of chopped 


parsley into the tureen, strain the broth into it, and 


serve. 


Note.—Barley or rice may be added: the barley will require two 
hours, the rice one hour boiling in 3¢ of a pint of the broth before add- 


ing to the rest. 


32.—Raviuoli Soup. 
Peel and cut up the vegetables and the half clove of gar- 


Ingredients for the Soup. 


1 fowl or pheasant 

2 patridges 

3 Ibs. of veal 

3 Ibs. of lean beef 

\% Ib. of lean ham 

2 carrots 

4 onions 

1 head of celery 

4 mushrooms 

1 small bunch of mixed herbs 

sprigs of parsley 

3 clove of garlic (the size of a 


pea 

2 hard-boiled eg 

x tablespoonful o soy 

z dessertspoonful of loaf sugar 
x teaspoonful of salt 

z 99 
I grain of cayenne 

1 saltspoonful of pepper 
x blade of mace 

4 allspice 

3 cloves 

6 peppercorns 


cayenne, pepper, and the spices. 


» flour of mustard 


lic: put them into a degchee with 
6 oz. of butter, the beef, ham and 
veal, and stand one hour by the 
fire to extract the gravy. Then 
put in one quart of warm water, 
and the birds, breast uppermost ; 
simmer for one hour. Take out 
the birds, cut off the meat from 
the breast without the skin. 
Put the carcasses back into the 
pot with four quarts of warm 
water, the herbs (tied together), 
the soy, sugar, salt, mustard, 
Simmer gently and skimm 


SOUPS, BROTHS, &C. 39. 


Ingredients of the Raviuolt. 


3% oz. of butter 
2 oz. of flour 
2 beaten yolks 
1 oz. of lean ham 
1 oz. Neufchatel cheese 
2 yolks of hard-boiled eggs 
1 oz. of cooked spinach 
1 shalot 
1 of a nutmeg grated 
34 saltspoonful of white pepper 


frequently for five hours. Mean- 
while make the Raviuoli as 
follows :—Rub two oz. of the 
butter into the flour, moisten 
with the two beaten yolks of egg, 
and one gill of cold water ; knead 


% of a saltspoonful of flour of and roll out the paste a quater of 


an inch thick, and let it stand in 
a cool dry place for three or four 
hours ; pound the breasts of the 
birds with the ham, Neufchatel 
cheese, the yolks of the hardboiled eggs, the spinach, 
and the shalot. Season with the nutmeg, the pepper, 
sugar, mustard, anchovy sauce, add % oz. of butter and 
one tablespoonful of grated Parmesan cheese. Pound to 
a smooth paste, and add one wineglass of marsala or 
sherry. Roll the paste as thin as possible; cut it into 
2% inch squares, (about 16); brush them over with 
water ; divide the forcemeat into the same number of parts; 
put one into each square ; turn over one corner so as to 
make small three cornered puffs ; press the edges well round 
with the thumb to make them adhere; drop them one by 
one into a saucepan of boiling water with a teaspoonful of 
salt in it, and boil slowly for seven minutes. Take them up 
carefully, drain them on a sieve in the oven for 10 minutes, 
Stir into the soup the 434 tablespoonsful of baked flour, and 
one tablespoonful of grated Parmesan cheese, then strain. 
Put the soup into a degchee, boil up; throw in the Raviuoli ; 
boil slowly for twenty minutes ; add the port wine, and serve 
immediately with a dish of grated Parmesan cheese separate. 


Note.—Leveret or pigeons may be substituted when partridges cannot 
be had, 


mustard 
¥% teaspoonful of thick anchovy 


sauce 
¥% saltspoonful of loaf sugar 
2 tablespoonsful of grated Par- 
mesan cheese 
1 wineglassful of sherry 
I ” »: port wine 


40 DAINTY DISHES FOR INDIAN TABLES. 


33.—Economical Soup, (No. 1.) 
Skim the fat off the liquor in which a brisket of beef 


_ __ {ngredients. has been boiled, put it into a 
3 paler , 
I heaad ol celery - 
r quart of split peas, or dhall cloth and squeeze out the mois 
4 tablespoonsful of driedflour = ture. Slice the onions and cele- 


1 teaspoonful of flour of mustard 


¥4 See Penge pepper ry, and fry them in this fat un- 
1 tablespoonful of moist sugar : : 

: teaspoonful of dried mint til they are of a nice brown 
1 desertspoonful of vinegar : : 
% of a pint of cold water color. Boil the peas in one quart 


of water till tender; beat them with a wooden spoon, pour 
over the beef liquor, add the vegetables, and boil six hours, 
keeping it well stirred. Mix the dried flour and all the remain- 
ing ingredients with the cold water; pour it into the soup, 
and stir until it thickens. Boil an hour longer. Cut some 
slices of bread a quarter of an inch thick into dice, and fry in 
plenty of good dripping or butter until brown. Drain before 
the fire on a sieve ; pour the soup into a tureen, throw in 
the fried bread, and serve immediately with some fine 
powdered mint on a plate. 


34.—Economical Soup, (No. 2.) 


Skim the fat off the mutton liquor. Put all the in- 
Ingredients. gtedients, except the milk into 


The liquor in which a leg of . | . 
Me atten has been bailed a degchee ; pour over the liquor ; 


; bo Pieces linea) bread boil for two hours; rub through 
Any Te eoee tl of eal a sieve or cloth; put it back 
Teper narsiee Pee into the degchee, pour in the 
x Spr of ee pint of milk, boil up, and serve 
& clove of garlic 

1 pint of new milk at once. 


35-—Golden Quenelle Soup. 
Prepare two quarts of clear soup (No. 1). Prepare the 


SOUPS, BROTHS, WNC. 41 


ingredients of Golden Quenelle Soup. custard quenelles as follows :— 


6 eggs Break the egg into a basin and 
% pint of cream . . 

gill of strong roc add the stock, (game if possible) 
toon »7 Pepper pepper and salt, and beat with 


a fork until well mixed; strain into a plain well buttered 
mould ; put the mould into a degchee containing about three 
inches depth of water, cover the degchee, and steam gently 
for about half an hour, or until the custard has become firm 
to the touch; then take out the mould and stand it ina 
cool place. When it is quite cold turn the custard out on a 
plate and cut it up into neat square dice. Place these 
gently in the soup-tureen, pour in the soup, and serve. 


NVole,—-A few asparagus heads or green peas may be added. 


36.—Asparagus Soup. 


Scrape and wash the asparagus, (if in tins this is un 


Ingredients, necessary); cut off the heads and 
6o stalks of asparagus . 
8 spring onions throw them into cold water; put 


alt ful of salt . . 
x dessertspoonful of sifted sugar the stems into a degchee with 
1% pints of cold water . 
3% pints of stock (No. 1) the onions, salt, sugar, and cold 
1 wineglassful of brown sherry . 
water. Boil fast for an hour, 

then strain off the water and add it to the stock. Boil 
rapidly (uscovered) for half an hour; add the asparagus 
heads and the sherry ; continue to boil for fifteen or twenty 


minutes, and then serve. 


37.—Giblet Soup. 


Clean the giblets nicely and cut them into pieces two 
Ingredients. inches long. Put them ina deg- 


; yore or duck giblets 
Pints of cold water chee with the cold Water, salt, 


1 teaspoonful of salt 


¥ 


42 DAINTY DISHES FOR INDIAN TABLES. 


Ingredients of Giblet Soup. epper. mustar Cc n 
1 saltspoonful of white pepper pepper; d, ayenne, 
I 


tara” » flour of mus- nutmeg. Boil up slowly; 
4 grain of cayenne nee then simmer one _ hour. 

ae oneal of baked out the giblets, strain the 
¥ fal of cold stock and skim off every p 
ae ful of mushroom of fat. Add the liquor 


ketchup . 
1 small wineglassful of sherry the giblets to the two qui 


stock, and simmer gently 114 hours. Mix the baked 
with the soy and ketchup, stir this into the soup 
for twelve minutes; add the sherry, and serve. 


38.—Aspic or Savoury Jelly. 
Put the ox foot, (unboiled) pigs feet, veal and h 


Ingredients well cleaned and choppec 
1 ox foot : . 
2 large pigs feet pieces) into a large degchee 
1 small knuckle of veal . : 
ry, 9 9 ham the onions, garlic, carrots, 
2 onions . 
1 clove of garlic and truffles (all scraped, v 
2 carrots 
2 apples and cut up); add all the 
2 truffles . . . 
4 cloves ingredients down to the six 
4 allspice: 
}2 teaspoonful of mustard seed = of cold water, inclusive. I 
1 blade of mace 
2 


2 ay eat quickly ; then skim and s 


he igs Od fa lemon seven hours or longer. Stra 

: reaspoonsful of salt an earthen (uncovered) pai 
les ful of moist sugar . . 

, Ce pay burnt 8 let it stand ina cool plac 
ts of cold water 

The thin rind of a lemon next day. Take off ever 

‘The strained juice of 2 lemons ; 

‘The whites of 8 eggs cle of fat, and wipe the sur 

rill of cold water . . 
34 pint of marsala the jelly with a soft cloth 


out of hot water. Turn the jelly out and cut off the sec 
Put the jelly into a bright degchee with the rind 

and the juice of two lemons. When nearly boiling, w 
the whites of eggs beaten with the cold water. Boil fi 


SOUPS, BROTHS, &c. 43 


whisk rapidly for ro minutes, then let it simmer gently for 
twenty minutes more. Strain through a jelly bag; add the 
marsala, If not perfectly bright strain it a second or third 
time, Pour it into earthen moulds or pie dishes, and when 
firmly set it is ready for use. 


39.—Aspic Jelly. 
(An economical way for small quantities. ) 
Have ready the quantity of stock jelly given in the 


Ingredients. receipt (see stock jelly). Boil the 
2 tablespoonsful “of any aroma- . . 
tic herbs you may have herbs in the vinegar for half an 


% pint of white vinegar stock 


ielly hour ; put the jelly, seasoned with 
% saltspoonful of salt . 
» _ white pepper the salt, pepper, and sugar into 
1 teaspoonful of moist sugar . . 
The whites of four eggs a degchee; when it is nearly 
1 Sherry glass of water .. . 
1 sherry glass of marsala boiling take it off the fire, add 


the whites of eggs whipped with ‘the water, whisk well ; 
pour the vinegar on, put the degchee back on the fire; beat 
and stir constantly until the jelly gets white but does not 
boil; put it where it will simmer gently, with a little fire on 
the top, for half an hour; strain through a jelly bag, add 
the marsala, and when it is firmly set, it is ready-for use. 


FISH. 


1.—Boiled Salmon. 


Take the salmon out of the tins and put it into pl 
of water that is nearly boiling, with a dessertspoonft 
salt; boil up quickly, skim, and simmer very gently 
Six minutes. Two pounds will require 12 minutes, 
pounds 18 minutes, aud so on. Serve the salmon ona ne 
folded napkin, with either shrimp or cream sauce, (No. 


e 


2.—Shrimp Sauce. 


Boil the shrimps four minutes; put half of them 


Ingredients. mortar and pound to a sm 
1 small tin of shrimps 
3 tablespoonsful of cream paste ; add the cream, knead 


3 oz. fresh butter . 
1 tablespoonful of baked flour butter with the baked flour, 


¥ pint of boiling water . 

stir into the boiling water. 
eight minutes, put in the whole shrimps, simmer t 
minutes, then stir in the shrimp cream, and serve in 
diately. 


3.-—Salmon in Potato Paste. 


(Second dressing. ) 
Mash the potatoes with a wooden spoon until 


Ingredients. smooth; add two spoonsfu 
6 mealey potatoes 1 . 
* caltsproneful of salt the salt, the butter, and the 5 


2 oz of -viled butter 


yolk ‘beat till very light. Divide 


FISH. 45 


Ingredients for Salmon in - salmon into neat pieces an inch 
Potato Paste. 
¥ Ib. of cold salmon long, free from skin ard bones. 


® salts ful of whit . . . 
3 tablespoonsfal of. Pep Mix with it one saltspoonful of 
sauce (or melted butter if . 
there is none) salt, the pepper and shrimp sauce. 
Put a layer of the patato into a flat dish, lay in the fish, cover 
it with the rest of the potato. Smooth over the top with. 
a knife, and bake in a quick oven for 20 minutes. Serve 


in the same dish, 


4—Salmon Cutlets wlth Milanese Sauce. 


Cut each cutlet in half; take off the skin and remove the 


Ingredients. bone. Have six pieces of thin 
3 salmon cutlets : 
3 oz. butter white paper; rub them three 


1 wineglass of marsala . . 
times across with fresh cut gar- 


lic, and spread them with the butter (14 0z. for each). Put 
the wine into a soup-plate; dip each cutlet in the wine, 
then fold it in the buttered paper and boil over a slow fire, 
or fry'in plenty ef boiling fat for one hour; drain on a 
Sieve before the fire. Take off the paper or serve them in 
It according to taste, with the following sauce on a sauce- 
boat, 


Note,—Pieces of Plantain-leaf may be used instead of the paper ; they 
are fastened with a clove stuck in like a pin and look very nice. 


5.—Milanese Sauce. 


Wash and bone the anchovies, peel the mushroom and 


Ingredients. _ shalots; chop these small and 
Taurge meshroom put them into a small degchee 
Shal ae 
oz, butter with the butter; fry wll nicely 


bu 
tablespoonful of baked flour . . 
,caper vinegar browned, stirring ; dredge in the 


half gr grain of cay enue 


WN 
epomen 


46 DAINTY DISHES FOR INDIAN TABLES, 


Ingredients for Milanese Sauce. flour. When well mixed adi 
r tablespoonful of marsala 


1 saltspoonful of salt the vinegar, cayenne 
1 tablespoonful of fresh made Bat, cay ? marsala 
mustard Salt, mustard and stock. Boi 
¥% of a pint of stock (No. 2) . 
2 tablespoonsful of capers slowly for twenty minutes, stir 


ring and skimming, occasionally strain; add the capers 
boil fast for five minutes, and serve as directed. 


6.—Fried Salmon with Tartar Sauce. 


Wipe the salmon in a clean dry cloth. Season the bread 


Ingredients. crumbs with the pepper anc 
2 salmon cutlets . 
x oz. of fine bread crumbs parsley, dissolve the 2 oz. of but 


34 saltspoonful of white pepper . . 
1 teaspoonful of chopped parsley ter, dip in the fish, and strew i 


2 oz, of butter . 

% Ib. of butter or ghee over with crumbs. Fry in thi 
butter or ghee (which must be boiling) over a gentle fire fo: 
eighteen or twenty minutes. Drain and serve on a napkir 
with the Tartar sauce (No. 9g) in a sauce-boat. 

Note.—The sauce should be made half an hour before the fish is com 
menced. 


7.—Salmon Cutlets with Indian Sauce. 
Strip the skin off the cutlets, take out the bones, and 


Ingredients. cut each slice in two. Wash and 
cutlets . . 
 tablespoonful of flour well dry each piece. Mix the 


Itspoonful of sal 
: teaspoonful of curry powder flour with the salt and = curry- 

2 oz. of butter . ; 
% Ib. ghee or butter powder. Dzissolve the butter in 
a soup-plate rubbed three times across with garlic. Dip in 
the cutlets, dredge them with the seasoned flour, and fry in 
the 3{ lb. boiling ghee or butter for twelve minutes. Serve 


with the following sauce in the dish. 


2.—Indian Sauce. 


Peel and chop the shalots and put them into a saucepa 


FISH. 47 


ingredients for Indian Sauce. with the vinegar and sugar ; stir 
4 shalots 


2 tablespoonsful of vinegar over the fire till the shalot iS 
t ful of moist 

T gill of good stock tender, and then add the stock. 
1 teaspoonful of mixed Indian . . . 
pickles. Boil up;.skim; add the pickles 


1 teaspoonful of curry-powder . . . 
1 tablespoonful of pickle vinegar (cut into half inch pieces) the 


curry-powder and pickle vinegar, and simmer for fiften 
minutes. Serve the sauce in the centre, and the cutlets 
neatly round it. 


9.—Mayonnaise of Salmon. 


Wash and chop the tarragon, chervil, and onions. Free 


Ingredients. the salmon (cooked either in the 
10 tarragon leaves : . 
1 sprig of chervil ordinary way or as in the follow- 
4 small sprig onions . " . 
¥% Ib. cold salmon ing recipe No. 10) from skin and 
1 saltspoonful of salt . . . 
2 large fresh lettuces _ bones and divide it into pieces 
Some beetroot and cucumber 


1¥ inches square, season it with 
the chopped herbs, onions and salt. Skim and wash the 
lettuces ; let them remain half an hour in very cold water, dry 
them in a clean cloth, and cut them into small pieces (it 
is best to break them with the fingers). Put a layer of 
salad into a bowl, on that two tablespoonsful of the sauce, 
(see No, 8) and half the salmon; cover with some more 
sauce, add the remainder of the salmon, cover that with 
sauce ; then a layer of salad and the rest of the sauce ; finish 
with the remainder of the salad. 
Note.—Some persons object to onions and herbs ; either or both may 


be omitted. The receipt will in all respects do for Turbot, Lobster, 
Mahaseer and Hilsa. 


10.—To dress Salmon for Mayonnaise. | 


If you have any salmon ready dressed you can use it, but 


48 DAINTY DISHES FOR INDIAN TABLES. 


if not, the following will be found preferable :— 
Put into a degchee the shalots, carrots, parsley, t: 


Ingredients. salt, and butter. Boil for 
2 shalots ; . 
4 Carrot minutes. Put in the s: 
2 Sprigs of rsley 
1 sprig of thyme ’ 1 
¥4 teaspoonful of salt with the wine and water, bc 
3 oz. of butter . . . 
xr tumbler of marsala quickly, then simmer very § 
2 ths. of salmon twelve minutes, and « 


When quite cold take off the skins, pull out the bone: 
divide the pieces into flakes two inches square, and 
the receipt according to the Mayonnaise. 


Note.—The quantities given will be sufficient for six or 
persons. 


1r.—Turbot. 


Take the turbot out of the tin, rub in some lemon | 


Ingredients. and put it into a degchee 
2 tins of turbot 
1 dessertspoonful of salt plenty of cold water, the 
"1 wineglassful of white vinegar _ . . 
A little lemon juice and white vinegar. Boil for 


minutes, simmer for five, and skim and serve on a fine 
kin with lobster sauce (see No. 12) in a tureen. 


12. Lobster Sauce. 
Take the pieces of lobster out of the liquor; dry the 


Ingredients. a soft cloth. Put the liquor 
z tin of lobster . 
1 blade of mace a saucepan with a blade of n 


6 oz. of butter ; . . 

2 tablespoonsful of dried flour boil five minutes; take out 

1 teaspoonful of lemon juice —- . 

x wineglassful of thick cream mace: knead the flour with 
butter and stir it into the liquor ; add the pieces of,lo 
and the lemon juice, and boil for five minutes. Stir it 


cream and serve. 


FISH. | 49 


13.—Fillets of Turbot fried in Butter. 
(Second dressing. ) 
Make a batter with the egg, flour, and milk ; beat it till 


Ingredients. quite smooth; cut up the cold 
1 texpoonful of flour turbot into neat fillets three 
1 gill of milk 


inches long and 1 % inches broad; 
dip each fillet into the batter, and fry it in boiling ghee or 
butter until of a pale brown color. 


14.—Turbot with Cream Sauce. 


(Second dressing. ) 
Turn the fish into neat fillets 3 inches long and 1% 
- _ ieredionts. inches broad. Season with the 

» 0) 

2 saltspoonsful of salt salt, nutmeg, and lemon juice, 
A tenth part of a nutmeg. . . 
1 teaspoonful of lemon juice and let it stand one hour. Boil 
1 pint of new milk ; . 
: smal piece of lemon peel the milk with the lemon peel. 


¥ pint of cream 


Beat the yolks with the cream, 
Strain the milk over the fish, boil up for five minutes ; stir in 


the cream carefully ; let it come nearly to the boil, then 
serve, 


15.—Scolloped Fish. 


Season the bread-crumbs with the salt, pepper, and cay- 


y Ingredients. enne. Divide the cold fish into 
of ath. of any cold fish (ex- ‘ . 
cept mackerel) pieces three-quarter of an inch 
4. of bread crumbs : oc: 
1 saltspoonful of salt square, and mix with it the sauce 
a ne > white pepper 
grain of’ cayenne or butter. Put a layer of crumbs 
ata nsful of white Sauce . . 
(or butter) into a dish or into scollop shells ; 


2 02. of dissolved butt . . . 
lay in the fish ; cover it thickly 


with crumbs; pour the dissolved butter over the top, and 
G 


50 DAINTY DISHES FOR INDIAN TABLES. 


bake in a quick oven or before the fire for quarter of an 
hour. Serve in the same dish on a folded napkin. 


16.—Ling Pie. 
Put the fish to soak in cold water the previous night ; 


Ingredients. then boil it for half an hour, 
tb. of ling (for any salt fish . 
4 hard-boiled eggs and remove the bones and skin. 
4 onions ee ee . 
8 mealy potatoes Divide it into flakes three inches 


3 0z. of butter, some pepper . ; 
z teaspoonful of made mustard long, and set it on a sieve or 


: ai , 2s, aushroom: ketchup cloth to get cold. Peel and slice 
the hard-boiled eggs, slice the 
onions ; boil the potatoes, and mash them with 2 oz. of the 
butter. Put a layer in the bottom of the dish, then a layer 
of onions, and season with half a saltspoonful of pepper, 
then the fish, then the eggs, and so on, until the dish is full. 
Mix the mustard, anchovy sauce, ketchup and water, 
and pour over the top. Cover the whole with a layer of 
potato, and bake for one hour. 


( Another way. ) 
Boil the potatoes and mash them with the butter and 
Ingredients. season with the pepper. Break up 
¥ Ib. of ling . 
8 mealy potatoes the fish (prepared as in the above 
eo utter e e fc e e 
2 teaspoonful of pepper recipe) into tiny strips, and mix 


them with the potato and bake in a quick oven for half an 
hour. Turn out and serve with egg sauce in a sauce-boat. 


# 17.—Soles fried in oil. 


Rub the soles with lemon-juice and salt, let it remain for 
one hour; roll it in a cloth to dry; dredge it with baked 


FISH. 51 


9 jeer 


Ingredients of Solesfried in cil. flour, and fry in plenty of boiling 


A little lemon juice 


saltspoontul of salt olive oil till of a plain brown 
Some aked flour . ° 
Some olive oil color. Drain for two minutes on 


a sieve before the fire, anb serve on a neatly-folded napkin, 
with either melted butter (No. 7), or tartar sauce (No. 12) 
in a sauce-boat. 


18.— Buttered Soles. 


Rub a tin dish four times across the bottom with a 


Act pyle piece of fresh cut garlic ; wipe the 
Some baked flour sole, (two) dry and dredge them 


6 oz. of butter 


X teaspoonful of finely chopped with flour. Lay them in the dish 

with the butter, and bake in a 

moderately heated oven for half an hour. Serve on a very 

hot dish with the butter poured over, and the chives or 
parsley sprinkled over the top. 


19.—Fillets of Sole. 
One sole will make eight small fillets. Saturate them for 


Ingredients. half an hour in lemon-juice, dry, 
Lemon juice . . 
2 yolks beaten and dip each fillet into beaten 
Dried bread-crumbs 


egg and then into bread-crumbs. 
Fry them in boiling olive oil or fat for ten minutes, (till of 
a pale yellow color) drain and serve upon neatly-folded 
white paper, placing them in a circle resting one on another. 
Serve with melted butter (No. 7), or tartar sauce (No. 12), 
or anchovy sauce (No. 26), in a turteen. | 


20.—Curried Fish. 
Mix the butter and the curry-powder ; peel and slice thin 


§2 DAYNTY DISHES FOR rNDIAN TABLES. 


jineredient of Curried Fisk. the onion, and fry in the butter 
of butter ° . 

x tablespoonful of curry-powder until quite tender. Remove the 
x large onion 


x Ib. of cold fish _ skin and bones from any cold 

x teaspoonful of lemon juice . ok . 

: » ow Salt fish and divide it into pieces one 
99 9 

2 tablespoonful of cream inch square, and put it into the 


frying pan ; add the strained lemon-juice, the salt and baked 
flour. Stir constantly over a slow fire for three-quarters of 
an hour. Add the cream, mix it well with the curry, and 


serve at once with a wall of rice placed round the dish. 
Note.—Chutney should be Served with curried fish. 


21.—Whitebait, fried. 


Drain it on a sieve. Strew a cloth thickly with flour 


Ingredients. and sprinkle the fish lightly over 
z tin of whitebait oe . 
Some flour it with your hand ; turn it about 
Pred parsicy quickly and deftly with the cloth 


in your hand until all the whitebait are well covered, then 
put them by handfuls into a wire-frying-basket, shake off all 
the superfluous flour, and dip the basket containing the white- 
bait into a frying-pan full of boiling butter or oil. A few 
minutes will suffice to give them a silvery tinge and will 
make them perfectly crisp; lift out the frying-basket, and 
turn the whitebait on to a neatly-folded napkin. Garnish 
with fried parsley, and serve at once with slices of brown 
bread and butter, cayenne, and quarters of lemons handed 
round separately. 

Note.—It ts impossible to prepare whitebait unless you have a frying- 
basket, as the whitebait always break when prepared in any other way. 


22.—Oysters. 
When eaten uncooked, they must be accompanied by 
cut lemons, cayenne, and thin cut brown bread and butter. 


FISH. 53 


23.—Scolloped Oysters. 


Beard the oysters, and put the beards and liquor into a 


Ingredients. small stew-pan with a few drops 
z tin of oysters . . . 
2 oz, of butter of lemon-juice. Boil five mi- 
2 oz. of flour os 
1 gill of cream nutes, then strain into a degchee ; 
3 saltspoonful of salt . 
yy. x) Pepper knead the butter with the flour, 
% grain of cayenne .. th It d 
teas n or ie¢mon-juice e cream, Sa - 
Bread-crumbs » SA Pepper and cay 


% teaspoonful of chopped parsley enne; pour it Into the sauce, and 
2 yolks of eggs . . , 
boil for ten minutes; then add 
the two yolks, the remainder of the lemon-juice and the 
parsley ; add the oysters, boil two minutes, and then pour 
the mixtures into scollop-shells (or a small tin dish.) Cover 
with a thick coating of bread-crumbs and bake about fifteen 
or eighteen minutes till of a pale brown color. 


24.—Fried Oysters. 


Boil the liquor, pour it over the oysters, and let them 


Mi _ineredionts. remain till cold. Mix the flour 
tin of oysters . . 

3 tablespoonsful of flour with 14 of a pint of the oyster- 
1 teaspoonful of lemon-juice . oe . 
2 eggs. liquor and the lemon-juice till 


in a smooth batter ; add the yolks of the eggs well beaten ; 
beat the batter for twenty minutes. Dry and beard the oys- 
ters. Beat the whites of the eggs to a stiff froth; mix well 
with the batter, throw in the oysters. Put them into a 
frying-pan with plenty of boiling ghee or butter, and fry till 
of a pale brown color—about eight minutes. Drain on a 
sieve before the fire one minute, and serve very hot, placed 
in a circle upon a neatly-folded napkin or paper. 


25.—Oyster Vol-au-vent. 


Prepare the Vol-au-vent as directed, (see recipe) and fill 


54 DAINTY DISHES FOR INDIAN TABLES, 


Ingredients for Oyster Vol-au-vent. the vacancy with oysters prepared 


3 dozen oysters as follows :—Beard the oysters ; 

1 blade of mace . 4 . 

I grain of cayenne put their liquor into a saucepan 

x teaspoonful of lemon-juice . ; 

The thin eel of one lemon with the beards, the mace, lemon- 
peppe 

3 oz. of butter ul : i 

x dessertspoonful of baked flour juice and peel, and Pepper ? boil 

1 gill of fresh cream up. Knead the butter with the 


flour and stir in ; boil till it is quite thick, fifteen or twenty 
minutes ; strain ; add the oysters, simmer six minutes ; stir 
in the cream,-and use as directed. Serve the vol-au-vent 
on a neatly-folded napkin. 


26.—Oyster Patties. 
Make the puff paste as directed (see recipes—Chapter on 
Ingredients. Pastry &¢.) roll it out 4% of an 
3g fol Of nace inch thick; have ready two circular 
5p fain of white mo patty cutters, dip them into flour 
I #4 errlespoon lof Oswegoflour and cut out eight of the larger size; 
Bi epost oflemonjuice press the smaller size on the centre 


of each piece of paste and cut it half-way through. Roll 
out the remainder of the paste, and cut out eight of the 
smaller pieces ; place them all on a baking tin, and bake 
in a quick oven till of a pale brown color,—about twenty 
minutes. Take them out, and with a sharp penknife 
remove the centre paste from the larger pieces. Fill the 
vacancies with oysters prepared as follows :—Take the beards 
off the oysters ; throw the oysters into boiling water ; put the 
beards and liquor with the mace, lemon-peel, pepper and 
cayenne into a small saucepan, and boil /as/, ten minutes ; 
strain. Cut the oysters into six pieces; stir the Oswego 
flour into the cream ; put the oysters into the sauce, add the 
Jemon-juice, simmer two minutes, stir in the thickened 


FISH. 55 


cream, boil for a few minutes till quite thick, fill the oyster 
patties, cover over with the-small lids and serve on a neatly- 
folded napkin. 


27.—Mahaseer, boiled. 


Fill a good sized degchee with cold water and add salt 
to it until it will float a fresh egg. Then set the water 
on to boil. When it is boiling furiously put in the fish and 
boil from fifteen to twenty minutes. (A ten pound fish 
is the best size.) When done take it out and serve af once, 
or it will be utterly spoiled. Serve with anchovy, egg, or 
Dutch sauce. 


28.—Mahaseer, cold. 
The night before you require it, put the cold fish (di- 


Ingredients. vided with two silver forks into 
x, 1b, cold fish pieces two inches square) into 
eee See a soup tureen; sprinkle the 


cambler of the water in which chillies and green ginger cut up 
the fish was boiled : 

Vinegar over it, then the cloves and pep- 
percorns, Add the liquor in which the fish was boiled. 
Boil sufficient vinegar, about half bottle, and pour it over 
boiling till it jus¢ covers the fish. Leave it till the morn- 
ing when it will have formed into a compact jelly. Serve 


on a dish with the following sauce poured over : 


29.—Sauce for cold Mahaseer. 


Ingredients. 
1 teaspoonful of fresh made Stir all these ingredients well 
mus e ° . 
x teaspoonful of salt together in the order in which 
x ” ” », black pepper 


2 tables pod’sfal rail pepper they are given and use as di- 
2 


of vinegar : 
r dessertspoonful of sherry rected, or in a separate tureen 


BEEF. 


—_—-p—— 


1.—Roast Beef—Ribs or Sirloin. 


Wipe the beef dry with a clean cloth and envelope it in 
thin paper thickly spread with sweet beef dripping, hang 
it before the fire, and let it roast there, basting frequently 
for a quarter of an hour. Then withdraw it to a distance 
of 18 inches from the grate, and let it roast there slowly till 
done. Half an hour before it is ready, take off the paper, 
dredge it with baked flour, and baste with 2 oz. of dissolved 
butter; place the beef on a Aof dish; pour off the dripping ; 
add one teaspoonful of boiling water and half a saltspoonful 
of salt, to the gravy dripped from the beef. Serve at once 
with a garnish of grated horse-radish, and horse-radish sauce 
(No. ro) and Yorkshire pudding on separate dishes. (Allow 
II minutes to the fb. for roasting underdone.) 


2.—Boiled Salt Round of Beef. 


Choose a round of beef well covered with rich delicate- 
looking fat ; take out the kernels; rub in and all over it 
about 4 tbs. of salt, and rub it well with the salt every 
morning for ten days; roll it round, fasten it with skewers 
and bind it round with tape. Put it in a good sized deg- 
chee with plenty of cold water, and boil it very gently, 
skimming frequently until done. Allow half an hour to 
the pound after it boils. Take the beef out, trim off any 


BEEF. — , 57 


soiled pteces of fat, cut off the first slice, garnish it with 
boiled carrots or greens, pour over a teacupful of the liquor, 
and serve with a sweet pudding handed round. | 

Silver-side and ribs of beef are prepared in the same 
manner. 


3.—Stewed Brisket of Beef with French Beans. 


Have a neatly cut square piece of brisket of beef; hang 


Ingredients. 


7 lbs. of beef 
3 onions (chopped) 
: teaspoonful of pepper 
», fresh made mustard 
z : dessertspoonful of soy 
1 tablespoonful of anchovysauce 
1 teaspoonful of moist sugar 
2 tablespoonsful of mushroom 
ketchup 
x dessertspoonful of vinegar 
t Ib. of French beans 
1 wineglassful of white vinegar 
1 tablespoonful of baked flour 


it before a quick fire for half an 
hour to brown; baste it well; 
put it into a degchee with the 
chopped onions fried brown, and 
sufficient water to reach the top, 
but not cover it; boil up and 
skim ; then add the pepper, mus- 
tard, soy, sauce, sugar, ketchup, 


and vinegar; simmer gently for 434 hours, skimming fre- 
quently ; add the French beans (uncut), the wineglassful of 
vinegar mixed with the flour, and simmer for another hour. 
Then serve—the beef in the centre, and the beans round 
the dish. 


4.—Stewed Beef with Maccaroni and Tomato 
Sauce. 


Take 6 bbs. of silver-side of beef with a skin on one side 
nicely shaped, and make some 


Ingredients. 
6 Ibs. of beef very deep cuts in it, nearly 
1 slice of ham . 
bunch of savoury herbs through to the skin; make a 
I of garlic 
4 lbs. suet fat forcemeat of the ham, herbs and 


i Ib. of maccaroni 
4 tablespoonsful of tomato sauce 


garlic, and fill the cuts with 


this ; then bind so that the stuffing may not escape. Put 
w 


58 DAINTY DISHES FOR INDIAN TABLES. 


the fat into a degchee which will just hold it and the 
beef, and when the fat quite 4oz/s lay in the beef, and let 
It simmer six hours, turning it once in every hour. Boil 
the maccaroni and drain it. Make a gravy for the beef, 
and put in the maccaroni and the tomato sauce. Boil five 
minutes. Take out the beef; dish it, pour the maccaroni 
and sauce round, and serve at once. 


5.—Spiced and pressed Beef. 


Have a piece of brisket of beef twelve inches long and 


Ingredients. seven wide. Mix all the ingre- 
136 bs of aaltpetre dients, and rub well into the 
Y Ib. otattenber beef on both sides. Let the beef 
- orem spoonfulof powder: temain in this pickle five days, 


3» powdered mace . : . 
allspice turning and rubbing daily. Dress 
y% of an oz. of black pepper . . 
Y " >> 9) bruised mustard it as follows :—Put the beef into 
see 
x cayenne spoonful of bruised plenty of cold water ; boil up 
coriander seed 


1 clove of garlic, chopped fine |Sowly ; skim ; then simmer as 
gently as possible for four hours; take it out, remove the 
bones, roll it up, skin outwards, as tightly as possible ; sew 
it up in a strong cloth and simmer for two hours longer; 
put it between two boards with a heavy weight on the upper 
one. When cold, take off the cloth, and serve cold or 


glazed as perferred. 


6.—Fillet of Beef, larded. 


Have a piece of the under side of a sirloin of beef about 
three pounds. Mix the lemon. 


Ingredients. _ 
The juice of a lemon \ Juice, salt, pepper, sugar and 
z teaspoonful of salt x] : ; . 
x saltspoonful of pepper ie onion; rub this well into the beef 
Sugar oh . . : 
t onion, finely chopped and let it remain all night. Take 


BEEF. | 59 


Ingredients of Fillet of Beef larded. off the skin and fat, and lard the 


Bacon . . . 
_ carrot round side nicely with fat bacon, 
I onion . 
1% head of celery deep and thick ; cover the lard- 
I piece of garlic . 7 oe . 
4 springs of parsley ing with writing-paper thickly 
1 spring of thyme 
2 cloves buttered ; put round the beef 
2 allspice . 
4 peppercorns the carrot, onion and celery (alk 
1 saltspoontul of salt . . . . 
% oy Pepper sliced), the garlic, the trimmings 
Some stock (No. oP f the beef. th 7 h 
1 dessertspoonful of flour of the Deef, the rsie thym 
1 tablespoonful of ketchup ? . pa yy yme, 
x % », brandly cloves, allspice, peppercorn, salt, 


pepper, and just sufficient stock to reach up to the larding ; 
put the stewpan over a brisk fire for quarter of an hour ; then 
place it where it will simmer very gently for two hours. Take 
out the beef, place it in aslow oven; rub the gravy through 
a fine sieve ; take off all the fat. Mix the flour, ketchup and 
brandy, and stir them into the gravy ; boil quickly for eight 
minutes. Place the beef on a dish; take off the paper, 
pour the sauce round, and serve immediately. 


7.—Rump Steak, broiled. 


Have the steak cut half an inch thick and in one piece, 


Ingredients. Put it on the gridiron over a 
y, om cpoontal of salt quick bright fire till done, turn- 
* v9 PEPper ing it with steak-tongs, or a fork 


placed ix the fat. Eight minutes uaderdone ; ten minutes 
with the gravy in. Put it ona hot dish, rub the butter 
quickly over both sides, sprinkle with the salt and pepper, 
and serve immediately. 


8.—Rump Steak, with Fried Potatoes. 


Prepare the steak as in the preceding receipt ; when it 


60 DAINTY DISHES FOR INDIAN TABLES. 


Ingredients for Rump Steak broiled. iS done pour over the lemon- 
2 shalots chopped, fine oo . . 

r teaspoonful of lemon juice juice and sprinkle with the chop- 
ped shalots. Serve at once with fried potatoes round 


he dish. 


9.—Beefsteaks ala Francaise. 

These are cut from the fillet, or undercut from a sirloin. 
Procure about 1% lbs., trim off all the skin and fat; cut 
the fillet into slices about half inch thick; lay them ona 
plate and season them with a little oil, pepper and salt ; boil 
on both sides, a little underdone ; serve them on a dish with 
fried potatoes round and Maitre d’Hotel butter (No. 25) 
under them. Serve at once. 


10.—Beefsteaks with Anchovy Butter. 


Prepare them as in the preceding receipt, substituting 
Anchovy butter (No. 26) for the Maitre d’Hotel butter. 


11.—Epicurean Beefsteak. 


Prepare as in & la Francaise, but dish up with Epicurean 
butter (No. 27.) 


Beefsteaks prepared as above may be also served with 
oyster, tomato, tartar, or white mushroom sauces. 


12.—Stewed Rumpsteak with Oysters. 
Have a rump steak 34 of an inch thick to weigh 1¥/ Ibs. 


Ingredients. Put the onion and carrot, sliced, 
2 doz. oysters into a degchee with the butter; 
Sore butter when it is dissolved, lay in the 


2 saltspoonful of pepper steak, and slightly brown both 


BEEF. «61 


. . “oy 
Ingredients for Stewed Rump- sides ; strain the liquor of the 


steak with Oysters. oysters and put in sufficient to 
x mustardspoonful of fresh 
made mustared reach to the top of the steak, but 
1 clove ' . 
4 sprigs of parsley not to cover it; add the pepper, 


: tablespoonful of flour 
mustard, clove and parsley, and 


simmer gently for 1% hours; take out the steak, strain 
the gravy, mix with it the flour and boil up; put back 
the steak; beard the oysters and put them in; simmer six 
minutes, and serve. 


13.—Rumpsteak Pie. 
Cut the steak % of an inch thick and divide it into two 


Ingredients. inch pieces; season it with the 
1 Ibs. rump steak 
4 salispoonsful of salt salt and pepper. Grease the edge 
1% ) pepper . 4 . 
r gillof gravy " of the pie-dish and lay in the steak 
1 teaspoonful of Oude or Har- . 
vey sauce with the gravy and the sauce. 
¥% Ib. of flour 
1 gill of cold water Make a paste as follows :— 
The juice of 4% lemon . ; 
7 02, of butter Moisten the flour with the water 


and lemon juice; knead to a fine paste; lay it flat on the 
board, put in the butter, and roll it out seven times ; each 
time dredge it slightly with flour ; let 1t stand two hoursin a 
cold place. ‘Take a sixth part of the paste, roll it out, and 
line the edge of the dish ; moisten with water, roll out the 
remainder to the size of the dish, put it over, press round 
the edge with the thumb ; trim with a sharp knlfe, notch at 
inch distances; make a hole in the centre, ornament it to 
fancy, and bake in moderate oven for 214 hours. 
Pigeons, hard-boiled eggs, and oysters can be added. 


14.—Beefsteak and Oyster Pie. 


Prepare the steak as in the foregoing receipt; fry the 


62 DAINTY DISHES FOR INDIAN TABLES. 


Lugredients for Beefsteak and pieces in the butter shake in 
5) 


Oyster Pie, 
134 Ibs. of rumpsteak : 
2 saltspoonsful of salt the flour ? add the oysters and 
1% of pepper one gill of thin liquor, the Harvey 


14 oz. of butter 


t ful of H . 
> tablespoonful of our’ ~=—- and the onion; shake round over 


2 doz. oyst . . . 
I gill of thin liquor the fire, simmering for five mi- 


1 chopped on‘on . . 
6 new potatoes (boiled) nutes. Put the whole into a pie- 


dish, cover with a paste prepared as above, bake one hour, 
and serve. 


15.—Rumpsteak, Kidney and Oyster Pudding. 


Prepare and season the steak as in the preceding re- 


Ingredients. ceipt; make a paste with the 
14 Ibs. of beefsteak 
> kidneys flour and suet chopped fine. 
2 doz. oysters : : . 
r gill of oyster liquor Grease a pint pudding basin, lay 
74 OF beet in the paste ; press it to an equal 


7 02. of beef suet 


thickness all round; put in the steak with the kidneys, 
oysters and liquor, and cover with a circular piece of paste ; 
press it to make it adhere; tie a cloth over; put into 
boiling water and boil four hours. Turn out carefully, and 


serve immediately. 


16.—Ox Palates, Stewed. 


Put the palates into hot water for one hour ; wash them in 


Ingredients. three waters, take off the black 

2 palates . . . 
4 slices fat bacon skin and cut each palate into six 
5 onion ed e e 
rcarrot y Sle . pieces. Put into a degchee the 
1 piece of garlic, (the size of a . } 

Pea) bacon, onion, carrot, garlic, herbs, 

Cc Ss 

saltspeonful of mixed herbs cloves, sugar, pepper and curry- 


sugar 
. curry powder } ° 
pnt of ‘good steck powder, and stand it over the 


tablespounful of brandy fire to brown the vegetables ; 


mgs et tg) 


BEEF. 63 


Ingredients for Ox Palates Stewed. add the stock, brandy and vine- 
r tablespoonful of vinegar gar, and put in the palates ; sim- 
99 99 93 nce our e 
: , mushroom ketchup mer gently for four hours and skim 
1 desertspoonful of soy 
1 wineglassful of port wine frequently. Take out the palates, 
skim off every particle of fat, and strain the gravy. Mix the 
rice-flour with the ketchup and soy, and stir it in to thicken 
the gravy ; put in the palates, simmer another hour ; add the 


port wine, and serve immediately. 


17.—Ox-Kidney, Grilled. — 


Cut the kidney in slices about half inch thick ; season with 
pepper and salt on both sides ; place them on a gridiron over 
a clear fire and broil them until done on both sides; dish 
up on a hot dish with Maitre d’ Hotel butter (No. 25,) and 
serve immediately. 


18.—Stewed Ox-Kidney. 
Cut the kidney in thin slices, take off the skin and pith, 


ingredients. and fry them in the butter for 
. of b . 
e saltspoonful of pepper two minutes, season with all the 
iY) rz) $ It ° be ° 
\ grain of cayenne’ other ingredients, and stir over 
1 tablespoonful of flour : . 
: mushroom chopped the fire until the whole has sim- 
1 teaspoonful of Harvey sauce . 
1 gill of stock mered together for five minutes, 


and dish up with sippets of fried bread round the dish. 


18.—Broiled Oxtail. 


(An excellent éntree.) 


It should be sent from the butcher ready jointed; soak 


Ingredients. and wash well; throw it into plen- 
f ye ; 
“acme cal cayenne and pepper tY Of boiling water slightly salted 


Some bread crumbs : . , 
Some clarified butter and simmer for fifteen minutes 


64 DAINTY DISHES FOR INDIAN TABLES. 


take it.out and pit.it into fresh water to.cool, wipé it and 
lay it in a small round stewpan ; just cover with the beef 
gravy and stew very gently until it is tender. Drain it; 
sprinkle it with salt, pepper and cayenne; dip the pieces | 
into clarified butter’ and then into bread-crumbs, (with 
which it should be thickly covered) lay on a gridiron, (or fry 
in a pan with 1 oz. of butter) then put into the oven for 
twenty minutes until colored of a light golden brown. Serve 
with gravy or tomato or Tartar sauce. (See recipes.) 


SECOND DRESSINGS OF BEEF. 


——> 


1.—Beef with Acid Sauce. 


Chop the onions and mushroom, and put them in a deg- 


_— Angredients, chee with the butter, salt, pep- 

2 onions . 

r mushroom per, mustard, horse-radish and 
2 oz. of butter cal 

1 teaspoonful o t Cc : 1 1 

t saltopoonful of pepper ayenne; fry till the onions are 
1 teaspoonful of flour of mustard } . , 
J rth Brad horse radish a bright brown color; dredge in 

Of a grain of Cayenne ’ 

f dessertopoonful of flour the flour, and add the vinegar 
¢ pint of beet savy and gravy. Cut some neat slices 
; tablespoonful o| of cold beef free from skin and 


1 tablespoonful of any wine 
gristle, lay them in the degchee, and simmer as gently as 


‘possible for quarter of an hour. Stir in a tablespoonful of 
any wine, and serve at once. 


2.—Beef with Savoury Rice. 


Cut the slices of beef off the sirloin a quarter of an inch 


Ingredients. thick, and trim off the fat and 
1 Ibs. of cold beef . . : . 
Some salad oil gristle ; dip each piece into fine 
Some lemon juice . . 
Some baked flour salad oil and then into lemon- 
1 teaspoonful of salt . . 
1 saltspoonful of pepper juice and let them remain four 
loys ” », flour of mustard . 
1» |» 1 loafsugar | hours; then dredge both sides 
1 pinch of cayenne : } 
2 shalots (finely chopped) with flour, and season with the 
Some garlic 
2 oz. of butter salt, pepper, mustard, sugar, 


¥% pintof gravy | ; 
14 teacupful of pickled mush- cayenne and shalots. Heat a 


rooms 
2 tablespoonsful of marsala degchee, rub it twice across the 
sy 


66 DAINTY DISHES FOR INDIAN TABLES. 


bottom with garlic, put in the butter, and when it is dis- 
solved, put in the beef; add the gravy and the mushrooms 
(but none of the vinegar); shake the pan and simmer very 
gently for half an hour; skim frequently ; add the marsala, 
and serve immediately with savoury rice round it. 


3.—Savoury Rice. 


Wash the rice and boil it in one quart of water for ten 


Ingredients, : . oe °, 
34 Ib. of rice minutes ; drain; put it in a deg- 
2 oz, of butter : . . 
x teaspoonful of salt chee with all the ingredients, 


rx, ’ loaf sugar . : . 
%4 saltspoonful of white pepper Stir and simmer until the gravy 


The rind of 4% lemon (grated) : . 
The straine juice of lemon 1S entirely absorbed, about quar- 


‘2 i f d e 
” teaspoonful chutney sauce ter of an hour. Serve imme- 
diately as directed. 
4.—Beef Pie with Potato Crust. 
Boil the potatoes, mash them quite smooth, add the salt, 


5 lange poiatece the butter, and the beaten yolk, 
oe ep dissolved butter and beat with a wooden spoon 
Th. cold sone bet ech vt | perfectly light. Cut the 
y saltspoonful of pepper eef into thin slices ; take off the 


1 teacupful of beef gravy . . 
1 tablespoonful of Harvey sauce fat and gristle, season with the 


salt and pepper ; spread a layer of potatoes in a shallow pie- 
dish, lay in the beef, pour over the gravy and the sauce ; 
cover with potato, smooth over with a knife, bake in a mo- 
derate oven for half an hour, and serve. 


5.—Beef Cutlets in paper. 


Mince the meat and bacon as fine as possible, also the 


Ingredients. mushroom and shalot; add the 
¥{ |b. of cold roast beef 1 
ae Or har baron salt, pepper, cayenne and mus- 


1 mushroom 


tard; beat the yolk of an exe 


SECOND DRESSINGS OF BEEF. 67 


with the gravy and sherry, mix 


Ingredients of Beef Cutlets 
tn paper. it well, and form the whole into 


¥% shalot 


t saltspoonfa of salt six cutlets; dip them into the 
eee abe with, the flours stand 
dessertspoonful of sherry them in a cold place for an hour. 
Some dried four Season the br d bs wi h 
som, ie endo eval. beat et 

Herbs in powder the herbs and salt; beat the 
% saltspoonfal of salt egg ; dip each cutlet into the egg, 


and then into the bread-crumbs. Butter thickly 6 half- 
sheets of foolscap; put each cutlet into one, and fold over 
the edges neatly ; place them on a tin dish, and bake in a 
moderate oven for 25 minutes. Serve in the paper. 


6.— Beef with Sauce Appetissante. 


Cut 34 lb. of cold roast beef into slices, trim off the fat 
and gristle, and lay them in the sauce appetissante (No. 20) 
on a silver dish over a spirit lamp. Let it get boiling hot, 
and serve at once. 


7.—Vinageret of Beef. 


Cut the beef in very thin slices, and lay them in a salad 


Ingredients. bowl with the beetroot, the eggs’ 
3% Ib. cold braised or boiled beef . . 
Some beetroot sliced hard boiled and cut in quarters, 
2€e . 
Sore boiled potatoes and the potatoes cold and sliced ; 
x saltspoonful of salt . 
I >» 9», Pepper season with pepper, salt, salad- 
3 tablespoonsful of salad oil . . 
2, of white wine vinegar Oil and vinegar, and chopped 


1 ,, of Taragon vinegar . 
x teaspoonful of chopped pars- parsley and shalot. Mix well, 


ley and shalot . 
serve as a luncheon dish. 


ANote.—Cold roast hare minced fine or grouse, teal, or quail, can be 
served in the same way, and celery or any sort of salad may be added, 


LAMB. 


—__~@-——— 


1.—Fore-quarter of Lamb. 


Cover the joint with white paper thickly spread with sweet 
dripping or butter, hang it before a clear fire, and roast for 
an hour and a half constantly basting. Half an hour before 
serving take off the paper, dredge the lamb slightly with 
flour and a little salt, and continue to baste until every part 
is of a delicate brown color ; just before taking it up. baste 
it with one ounce of dissolved butter. Place the joint on 
the dish, and with a sharp knife divide the shoulder from 
the ribs; rub the ribs over with an ounce of butter, and 
drop equally over it the strained juice of a small lemon; 
then replace the shoulder. Pour off the fat; add a teacup- 
ful of boiling water and a saltspoonful of salt to the gravy 
dripped from the lamb; pour the gravy into the dish (not 
over the meat), and serve at once, with mint sauce separate- 
ly, and a hot dish to receive the shoulder. 


2.—Mint Sauce. 


Chop some fresh well-washed mint quite fine, and put two 
tablespoonsful in a sauce tureen with two tablespoonsful of 
good vinegar and the same quantity of moist sugar. 


3.—Ribs or Target of Lamb. 


This consists of the breast and neck-joints left in their 
natural position, and the ribs are partially sawn through. 


LAMB. : 69 


Follow the’ preceding receipt, allowing half an hour less 
time ; serve as directed with mint sauce, but omit the butter 
and lemon-juice. 


4 —Saddle of Lamb. 


Cover it with white paper thickly spread with dripping, 
or butter and roast, basting constantly before a clear fire 
for 144 hours. Half an hour before serving, remove the 
paper; dredge the lamb with baked flour and baste till 
nicely browned. Place the saddle on a hot dish, the fat 
side uppermost ; pour off the fat, add a teacupful of boil- 
ing water and saltspoonful of salt to the gravy dripped from 
the lamb ; pour it into the dish (not over the lamb), and 
serve at once with mint-sauce in a tureen. 


5.—Haunch of Lamb. 
Follow the preceding receipt, but roast a¢ a distance from 
the fire, and allow 17 minutes to the pound. Serve with 
mint-sauce. 


6.—Shoulder of Lamb. 


Follow the receipt for the saddle, but allow 18 minutes 
to the pound, and just before you take it from the fire baste 
it with 1o oz. of dissolved butter. Serve with mint-sauce. 


7.—Roast Leg of Lamb. 
Follow the receipt for the saddle, allowing 22 minutes to 
the pound. 
8-—Boiled Leg of Lamb. 


Put the lamb in sufficient cold water just to cover it; 
boil up quickly; skim; add a dessertspoonful of salt, 


7° DAINTY DISHES FOR INDIAN TABLES. 


then simmer as gently as possible until done; allow 1 
minutes to the pound after it boils. Serve with either Cape 
sauce, (see page 76 ) or Maitre d’Hotel sauce poured ove 
it, or with Spinach sauce which is excellent and prefer 
able to either. Garnish with turnips or carrots. 


9.—Spinach Sauce. 

Take half pint of the liquor the lamb was boiled in; sti 
into it 3 oz of butter, knead into it a tablespoonful of bakec 
flour ; add a teaspoonful of Spinach greening (see page 3) 
then stir in a tablespoonful of cream (or some fresh goat’ 
milk with one yolk beaten up in it,) boil for three minutes 
and serve poured over the lamb. 


10.—Lamb Chops. 
Cut the chops the width of the bones. Season the bread 


Ingredients crumbs with the salt, pepper an 
1 et ofeale parsley finely chopped ; dip eacl 


T sattspoon tor mnky = Cutilet into beaten egg and thet 
Beate bunch of parsley into crumbs, and fry in boilin; 
teaspoonful of salt lamb’s dripping, at a distanc 

from the fire for eighteen or twenty minutes; when don 

they should be of a golden-brown color. Serve on ; 
hot dish with fried parsley in the centre. Wash an 
pick a large bunch of parsley, and let it remain in col 
water with a teaspoonful of salt in it for an hour ; put % lk 
of suet dripping into a frying pan, and while boiling 
dip the parsley in three times ; it should be crisp and greer 


11. —Lamb.Cutlets with Cucumbers. 


Peel the cucumbers ; cut them into two, split each piec 


LAMB, 71 


4 ngredients for Lamb Cutlets with into three, and remove the seeds; 


UCUIOETS. 
3 Cucumbers put the cucumbers into a quart 
¥ quart of water . . 
r tablespoonful of salt of water with the salt and vin- 
1 wineglassful of vinegar . 
%4 \b. of good butter egar, and let them remain three 
2 dessertspoonsful of dried flour . 
1 grain of cayenne hours ; drain off the water. Knead 
1 teaspoonful of sifted loaf-sugar , 
Te of stock, (No. 2) the butter with the flour, cayenne 
he strained juice of a small a 
emon 
B lant eutlets and sugar, put it into a degchee 
1 saltspoanful of salt and shake over the fire till of a 
des f : : 
Y Tee eee oF parsley pale yellow color ; then put in the 


cucumber, and simmer very gently for 20 minutes; shake 
the pan frequently ; add the stock, and continue to simmer 
for ten minutes. Add the lemon-juice, and serve poured 
over the cutlets, which cook as follows:—Trim the fat off 
the cutlets, and bare the bone about one inch. Mix the 
salt, pepper and parsley (finely chopped); season the cutlets, 
and fry them a pale brown color in the butter. They will 
require eighteen minutes to fry slowly. 


12.—Lamb Cutlets. 


Trim the fat and gristle off the cutlets, bare the bone one 


Ingredients ; , 
8 cutlets inch, and season with pepper, salt 
z Saltspoonful of sau er and finely chopped parsley; dip 
pcesserespoonful of parsley them into beaten egg, crumb 
Beate 
2 oz. of clarified butter them over, and put the crumbs on 


Closely ; then dip each cutlet in dissolved butter, crumb them 
again, and pat them into shape with a knife. Broil them over 
a clear fire till of a golden-brown color, and dish them up 
with either stewed mushrooms or chestnuts, or any thick 
puree of vegetables in the centre. 


13.—Lamb Pelau. 


Chop up the onions, garlic and raisins ; knead the curry- 


72 DAINTY PISHES FOR INDIAN TABLES. 


Ingredients of Lamb Pelau. powder with the butter, and f 


onions 
x clove of garlic the raisins, garlic and onions fi 
Y% |b. of Sultana raisins »8 


2 tablespoonsful of curry powder ten minutes. “Trim the fat C 
2 oz. of butter 


5 lambcutlets the cutlets, put them with tk 
4 teaspoonful of salt 
. of rice ; : 1 
int of stock onions, add the salt, and simm 
3 oz. of butter , ‘ } 
3 caltspoonful of salt for 34 of an hour: Wash the ris 


The grated rind of % lemon : : . 
Y% saltspoonful of mixed herbs and put it with the stock, ar 


Tie stained jatee at a lemon boil slowly for quarter of : 
hour ; drain off the gravy. Add the butter to the rice ar 
the salt; stir till it becomes a bright yellow color ; then p 
in sufficient gravy to moisten it, the grated rind, and tl 
herbs ; simmer and stir till the rice is quite tender, (a qué 
ter of an hour) and every grain separate. Add the crean 
lay half the rice on a hot dish ; add the lemon-juice to tl 
cutlets ; lay them with their sauce on the rice, cover the 


over with the remainder of the rice, and serve immediatel 


14.—Stewed Lamb and Peas. 


Cut a neck of lamb into small chops; season with sal 


meee pepper and flour, and fry in 1 0 
1% saltspoonful of salt . 

- 1» otal eepeet of butter till of a pale-brown col 
x dessertspoonful of flour . . . 

2 oz. of butter on both sides (eight minutes 
2 shalots 

4 white lettuce leaves Chop the shalots and lettuc 
1 teaspoonful of sifted loaf-sugar j ; 

2 tarragon leaves leaves, quite small, put them in 
1 teaspoonful of chopped parsley 

% ont ot stock or water degchee with 1 oz. of butter, th 
14 saltspoonful of salt 

A teaspoonful of loaf-sugar sugar, tarragon and parsle 


(chopped). When the butter is dissolved, put in the choy 
and stock, and simmer very gently for twenty minutes. Ad 
the peas, salt and sugar, continue to simmer for quarter ¢ 
an hour. Place the lamb neatly on a hot dish, pour ove 
the peas, and serve at once. 


LAMB. 73 


15.—Sweetbreads Roasted with Green Peas. 
‘Trim off the pith and skin, and put the sweetbreads into 


_ eewants. boiling water for five minutes, 
aw yolks . 
Some bread crumbs and then into cold water for an 


3 oz. of butter . . 
hour ; dip a paste brush in two 


raw yolks of egg beaten, brush the sweetbreads all over 
and roll them in bread-crumbs ; then dip them in 1 oz. of 
clarified butter and roll them in bread-crumbs; put them 
into a tin dish with 2 oz. of butter, and set them in a quick 
oven to bake for half an hour; baste them frequently with 
butter from the pan. When they are done a light golden 
brown color, dish them up with white sauce (No. 2) and 
Stewed peas. 


16.—Lamb’s Head and Pluck. 
Well wash the head and pluck; put them in a large 


Ingredients. degchee with the onion, garlic, 
I onion . 
X clove of garlic carrot, turnip, herbs, cloves, salt 
Tt carrot e . . 
1 turnip and water; boil up quickly, skim 
1 smali bunch of sweet herbs . 
3 cloves and simmer for one hour. Take 
I tablespoonful of sale h f th . 
§ pmts of cold water : 
s ated cold water them out of the degchee; split 


2» »» Pepper the head, take out the tongue 
1 grain of cayenne 


2 tablespoonsful of baked flour 7 . . 
% Ib. buster and brains, and fold the head in 


I tablespoonful of mushroom- = a clean cloth to*dry; mince the 


y apornl ots) 8° iver, heart, half the lights, the 


So t . 
Some bread-crembs tongue (take off the skin) and 


3 02. of dissolved butter the brains; season the mince 
with the salt, pepper, cayenne and flour; put it into a 
degchee with the 34 Ib. of butter, 34 of a pint of the liquor 
strained, the ketchup, sauce and soy; stir frequently, and 

K 


74 DAINTY DISHES FOR INDIAN TABLES. 


simmer gently for half an hour; brush the head ove 
beaten egg; strew it with fine breadcrumbs and bak 
moderate oven 3 of an hour; baste frequently wv 
dissolved butter ; place the mince on a hot dish ai 
head (which should be of a pale brown color) in the 
and serve at once. 


ee OD 
\ 
1] piles A 


ae 


MUTTON. 


1.—Saddle of Mutton Roasted. 


Dredge the saddle with dried flour; put it in a sheet of 
Paper thickly spread with sweet dripping; hang it before a 
good fire, quite close for 20 minutes, then at a distance 
Until done. A quarter of an hour before serving, take off the 
Paper; put half a saltspoon of salt into a teacupful of boil- 
ing water ; pour it over the mutton ; then baste till slightly 
browned. Pour off the fat, and serve the dripped gravy in 
the dish. Send to table very Aot with a pot of red currant 
jelly turned out on a plate. 


Note.—A saddle of mutton will require seven minutes to the pound to 
be underdone ; with the gravy in ten minutes. 


2.—Leg of Mutton Roasted 


Is done in precisely the same manner as a saddle. 
3.—Leg of Mutton Boiled. 


Put the mutton into a big degchee, and cover it well with 
cold water; boil up quickly ; skim; add a handful of salt, a 
few carrots and turnips, and simmer gently till done, allow- 
ing a quarter of an hour to the pouud. Dish it up with a cut 
paper ruffle on the shank bone. Mash the turnips, mix 
them with a dessertspoonful of flour, a pat of butter, and a 
wineglass of milk with the yolk of one egg beaten up in it, 
and a pinch of pepper and salt. Mould the mashed turnips 


76 DAINTY DISHES FOR INDIAN TABLES. 


in the shape of large eggs with two tablespoons, and plac « 
them in a circular row round the dish with a piece of boile«< 
carrot in between. Pour a little gravy under the muttoma 
and serve with caper sauce, (see recipe) in a separate dis ka 

Note.—Reserve the liquor in which the mutton was boiled for Eco. 


nomical Soup No. 2. 


4.—Leg of Mutton with Anchovy Sauce. 
Prick the leg with garlic and lard it thinly with pieces 


Ingredients, of lean ham, the thickness of & 
Some lean ham or bacon . ee 
2 tumblers of stock little finger. Put it intu a deg— 
x saltspoonful of salt . 
roy »» Pepper chee with the stock; add the= 
x clove of garlic ; 
: ay lex f mines salt, pepper, garlic, nutmeg, bay— 
1 sherry glass of brandy - a 7 
g snery 2 leaf and brandy ; simmer until 1€ 
3 oz. of butter is done, allowing a quarter of am 


hour to a pound of meat. Bone the anchovies, pound them 
and incorporate with the butter. When the leg is ready, 
take it off the fire, strain the sauce in which it has been 
boiled ; put the sauce back into the degchee, and add the 
anchovy butter. Simmer for five minutes and then put in 
the leg and leave it in to keep hot until wanted. 


5.—Caper Sauce. 
Knead 3 oz. of the butter, flour, nutmeg, salt and 


Ingredients. pepper well together; put them 

4 oz, butter ° . 
134 oz. of flour into a small saucepan with the 
A grate of nutmeg . ° 
1 saltspoonful of salt glaze and liquor; stir over the 

99 Bd 99 pepper . e 
A small piece of glaze __ fire until the sauce begins to 
¥% pint of the liquor in which . . 

the mutton has been boiled boil: then stir in the remaining 


1 tablespoonful of capers 
1 tespoonful of white vinegar = ounce of butter ; add the capers, 
andserve at once. The sauce should be very thick and smooth. 


MUTTON. 77 


6.—Roast Shoulder of Mutton. 

t out the vein from the underpart; allow sixteen 
tes to the pound ; hang it before a good fire, and baste 
antly. Half an hour before serving, dredge it with a 
dried flour, sprinkle over half a saltspoonful of salt, 
continue to baste; pour off all the fat; add a teacup- 
’ boiling water to the gravy that has dripped from the 
on, pour it on the dish; serve with onion sauce (No. 4), 
1 may be served separately if desired. 


7.—Boiled Shoulder of Mutton. 


is is done in the same way as a leg of mutton, and 
hered in onion sauce (No. 4). 


8.—Loin of Mutton Roasted. 
ice it before a quick bright fire, quite close for ten 
tes; draw it back and roast slowly ata distance for an 
A few minutes before serving, dredge it with baked 
and half a saltspoonful of salt; baste it well from the 
ining. Pour off the dripping, and serve in its own 
, with a little boiled water added to it in the dish. 


Loin of Mutton stuffed and served with rich 


Gravy. 
me a fine loin of mutton, trim off some of the fat, and 
Ingredients. beat the meat with a rolling pin 
of mutton suet . . 
of sweet almonds to flatten it and make it tender. 


of bread-crumbs 


spoonful of chopped parsley Make a stuffing with the suet 


tspoonful of mixed sweet- . 
r chopped fine, the almonds, (boil- 
tspoonful of pepper 


iin of cayenne ed ten minutes and pounded to a 
Iks of eggs 
lite of egg paste) the bread-crumbs, pars- 


ick onion, (see page 3) 
alot ley, herbs, pepper, salt,, cayenne 


78 DAINTY DISHES FOR INDIAN TABLES. 


Ingredi - mix” 
ngredients of Stuffed Lion of and eggs; mix these well to- 


3 piece of garlic, the size of a pea gether, and spread the stuffing 
TRS soe ution; rol it neatly, teigthe 

1 dessertspoonful of ketchup ? y ength 7 
4 bet naee a of soy ways, skewer it up, and roast it 

1 wineglassful of port wine before a good fire, at a distance, 
one hour, basting continually. Put the bones into a sauce- 
pan with the onion, shalot, garlic, carrot, celery and water, 
and stew three hours. Strain, add the flour, ketchup, soy 
and salt; boil up for ten minutes; add the wine; pour 
the gravy over the mutton, and serve very hot. 


10.—Barley Broth and Sheep’s Head with mashed 


Potatoes. 
Well wash the head ; put it into a degchee with the vege- 


Ingredients. 

1 sheep’s head 

2 onions 

1 turnip ‘ 

1 Carrot sliced 

1 leek 

2 oz. of barley 

1 dessertspoonful of salt 

x Saltspoonful of sugar 

2 sprigs of parsley 

i ry) thyme 

1 ss 99 Marjoram ( gether 

2 quarts of water 

8 Potatoes, . 

3 0z. of dripping | 

A veacupful of milk 

1 saltspoonful of salt 
pepper 

I tablespoonful’ of fine bread- 

crumbs 


tied to- 


tables, barley, salt, sugar, pepper, 
parsley and herbs ; pour over two 
quarts of water; stir the barley 
from the bottom frequently and 
skim with care; simmer 2% 
hours. Take out the head; skin 
the tongue; mash eight potatoes 
with a wooden spoon; add two oz. 
of dripping and the boiling milk; 
place the potatoes on a flat dish ; 


put the head on the potatoes, sprinkle over with salt, pep- 
per and bread-crumbs. Put one oz. of dripping cut into 
small pieces on the head to baste it; put it into a quick 
oven, and bake half an hour. Serve in the same dish it is 
baked in. The potatoes and bread should both be a nice 


MUTTON. 79 


brown color. Take out the herbs, skim off all the fat, and 
serve the barley broth in a tureen. 


11.—Mutton Steak and fried Potatoes. 


Cut two steaks half an inch thick off the thick end of a 
leg of mutton. Put them on a gridiron over a quick bright 
fire for eight minutes ; serve on a hot dish; mix half a tea- 
spoonful of chopped parsley with one oz. of butter. Rub 
quickly over both sides of the steak, sprinkle with a little 
salt and pepper, and serve at once with fried potatoes round 
the dish. 

' Reserve the remainder of the leg to be served as fol- 
lows :— 

Put the piece of mutton from which you have cut two 


Ingredients. steaks into a degchee with the 
2 onions chopped . 
3 saltspoonful of salt onions, salt, sugar and water; 
1 teaspoonful of sugar . . . 
x quart of water boil up and skim carefully. Sim- 
I . OF rice 
Some sliced lemon mer very gently for 34 of an 


hour, skimming frequently. Wash 
the rice, put it with the mutton, and simmer half an hour. 
Serve very hot, garnished with slices of lemon. 


12.—Irish Stew 


Cut the potatoes into lumps (not sliced) and put a layer 


Ingredients. 9 of them in the bottom of a deg- 
A loin of mutton (or bee . . . 
2 Ibs. of potatoes chee, with the onions sliced, the 
8 oz. of onions 
1 teaspoonful of flour pepper and salt; then another 
x saltspoonful of pepper 
1 quart of cold water layer of potatoes, andso on. Put 


the meat, cut into pieces on the /0f, sprinkle the flour over, 
pour over the cold water, and stew gently for eight hours. 


80 DAINTY DISHES FOR INDIAN TABLES. 


13.—Sheep’s Head. 


Split the head in halves and remove the brains; steep 


head ene in water and wash thoroughly. 
1 carrot Put the head, lights and liver in 
head of eclery a degchee with the carrot, onion, 
6 cloves ne celery, parsley, cloves, mace and 
z tablespoonful of salt salt; moisten with five pints of 
2 rain'af cayetne Pee water: boil up and simmer slowly 
oes Serenade for 1% hours. Take the head, &c. 
: teaspoonful of Harvey sauce ont carefully, ond Place them on 
VRS, oe th mer 


halves of the head; mince the liver, lights, heart, tongue 
(having taken off the skin) and brains; season the mince 
with the salt, pepper, cayenne and flour, put it into a deg- 
chee with the strained broth, quarter ib. of butter, ketchup, 
sauce and soy; stir frequently and simmer gently for an 
hour ; brush the head over the beaten egg; strew it with 
fine bread-crumbs, and bake in a moderate oven for 34 of 
an hour ; baste frequently with dissolved butter; place the 
mince on a hot dish and the head (which should be of a 
pale brown color) in the centre, and serve at once. 


14.—Sheep’s Liver and Bacon. 
Cut the bacon into thin slices, and the liver into slices 4 


Ingredients. of an inch thick, Put the ba 
¥, Ib nea con into a frying pan and_ fy 
%, deserts pote salt four both sides brown; place it round 
* Brain of pepper a dish before the fire. Dredge 


both sides of the liver with flour, and fry it till brown 
(twenty minutes.) Place it neatly in the middle of the dish 


MUTTON. Str 


Pour away the fat, and dredge the dessertspoonful of flour 
into the frying pan, pour in a gill of boiling water, add the 
pepper and salt; shake the pan till the gravy thickens and 
browns ; pour it over the liver, and serve at once. 


(Another way.) 


Cut the liver into slices two inches tong and a quarter of an 
inch wide; wrap each piece in a sage leaf and then fold it in 
a thin slice of bacon, and fry in a frying pan. When they 
are done a light brown, stick them on silver skewers, six 
on each, and serve. 


15.—Sheep’s Brains with White Sauce. 


Four sets of brains; lay them in hot water and put in 


Ingredients. the vinegar; steep half an hour ; 

1 teaspoonful of vinegar . 

2 02. of butter well wash them in cold water 
Some flour . . . 

1 beaten egg and dry ina cloth. Dip the brains 
Some fine berad-crumbs . . 

1 gill of new milk in the butter (dissolved), and 
The thin peel of one lemon . . 
¥% shalot dredge them with flour; then dip 
¥% saltspoonful of salt . 

2 yolks of eggs , them in beaten egg and strew them 
¥% teaspoonful of lemon-juice 


4 drops of Tarragon vinegar with the bread-crumbs. Fry in 
plenty of boiling lard slowly till of a light brown color, for 
20 or 25 minutes. Serve neatly placed round the dish, 
with the following sauce in the centre :-— 

Boil the milk with the lemon-peel, shalot and salt ; let 
it simmer ten minutes; beat the yolks, strain the milk, stir 


in the eggs; add the strained lemon-juice and the vinegar, 
and serve. 


16.—Sheep’s Kidneys, broiled. 
Take off the skin and cut the kidneys in half; put them 
on an iron skewer, dip them into oiled butter, and sprinkle 


L 


82 DAINTY DISHES FOR INDIAN TABLES. 


lightly with pepper and salt ; put them ona gridiron over a 
bright fire, and broil for eight or ten minutes; withdraw the 
skewer, and serve on a very hot dish. 


17.—Sheep’s Kidneys stewed in Port Wine. 
Trim off the pith and skin, and cut each kidney into 


Ingredients. four pieces ; season with the pep- 
8 fresh kidneys 
\, saltspoonful white pepper per, cayenne, salt, parsley, shalot 
i grain or cayenne 

wiitspoonful of sal i 

ys spor ul of tse } fel and flour. Put the butter intoa 
ble? oon »» shalot, J chopped small degchee, and when it begins 
3 Oe ee mearefal of stock, Nor dissolve ; put in the kidneys ; 
1 teaspoonful of red currant shake the pan over a moderate 


jelly . 
: claret glassful of port wine heat until they are slightly brown- 


ed; then add the stock, jelly, and port wine; put on the lid 
and do not remove it again; shake the pan and simmer 
gently for twenty minutes; turn out on a hot dish, and 
serve at once. 


ENTREES OF MUTTON. 


1.—Mutton Chops, plain. 


Season with pepper and salt; heat the gridiron; lay on 
the chops, and broil over a clear fire (about ten minutes) ; 
turn frequently, and serve with a little chopped shalot and a 
pat of butter under each chop. 


2.—Mutton Chops. 


(Another way.) 

Mince an onion and some parsley very fine, put this in a 
little oil and rub the cutlets well with the mixture, leave them 
to soak two hours, season with a little pepper and salt, and 
broil as directed above. 


3.—Mutton Cutlets, Bread-crumbed. 


The cutlets must be from the best end of a neck of mut- 
ton ; each cutlet must have a bone in it and the meat should 
not be thicker than the bone; trim them neatly, scrape all 
the sinew off the bone so as to leave it bright and clean, 
and beat the cutlets flat with a chopper. Season the bread- 

Ingredients. crumbs with the salt, pepper and 


2 oz. of fine bread-crumbs . . 
1 saltspoonful of salt cayenne; dip the cutlets into the 
1 beaten egg, . 

(or 1 02. of oiled butter) bread-crumbs, then into the 


beaten egg, then into the bread-crumbs again; broil in plenty 
of boiling fat till of a pale brown color, fifteen or twenty 
minutes. Serve with either a purée of potatoes or thick 


84 DAINTY DISHES FOR INDIAN TABLES. 


purées of turnips, spinach, onions, carrots, chestnuts or 
Jerusalem artichokes in the centre. 

Note.—It is very rare to see cutlets well prepared; they must be very 
carefully trimmed and thickly covered with bread-crumbs, so as to appear 
a smooth compact shape when they are served. The large, loose, 
untidy dark-brown sodden-looking cutlets which are usually served 
under that name are most unappetising. 


4—Mutton Cutlets with Portuguese Sauce. 


Prepare the cutlets as directed above, place them in a 


Ingredients, circle round the dish with the 
I onion : . 
x large apple following sauce in the centre :— 
34 clove of garlic . 
6 Sultana raisins | Peel and chop the onion, the 
1 wineglassful of vinegar . oe 
1 teaspoonful of moist sugar apple, the garlic and raisins ; put 
1 tablespoonful of gravy . . 
4 pepper-corns them into a saucepan with the 
I clov 
x wineglassful of port wine vinegar, sugar, gravy, pepper-corns 


and clove; simmer twenty minutes; add the port wine; 
rub through a sieve, and serve as directed. 


5.—Mutton Cutlets with white Mushroom Sauce. 


Have six or seven cutlets off the best end of a neck of 


Ingredients. mutton, trim off the fat, pith and 
Lemon juice . 
: teaspoonful of salt gristle, and bare the bone one 
1 small teaspoonful of white . 
pepper inch from the end. Rub each 
The grated rind of 4 lemon . j 
3% oz. of butter cutlet with lemon-juce, and sea- 
Mushroom sauce j 
¥, pint of new milk son the whole with the salt, pep- 
I shalot ¢ warli qd . 
clove of garlic r - . 
% small piece of thin lemon peel per, an emon-rind ; put them 
sprigs of parsley 1 1 } ’ ; 
3 on maroon into a bright tin dish with the 
1 pint of boiling water : 
t Feaspoonti Vo salt butter, and bake in a slow oven 
The juice of ene lemon : 
r yolk of an egg for 34 of an hour. Put the milk 
74 gill of cream into a bright saucepan with the 


shalot, garlic, peel and parsley ; boil ten minutes and strain. 


ENTREES OF MUTTON, 85 


Peel the mushrooms ; put them into the boiling water, with 
the salt and lemon-juice ; boil up fast for ten minutes ; drain. 
Beat the yolk with the cream, stir it into the milk; add 
the mushrooms ; boil up for two minutes. Serve the sauce 
over the cutlets, which must be neatly placed on the dish, 
the ends of the bones meeting in the centre. 


6.— Mutton Cutlets braised. 


Prepare the cutlets as in the foregoing receipts, season 


Ingredients. with the salt and pepper, and 
1 teaspoonful of salt . 
1 saltspoonful of pepper dredge each cutlet with flour. 
Some dried flour . 
Some garlic Make a bright degchee hot, rub 
2 oz: of butter . . 
x teacupful of good gravy it four times across the bottom 


with garlic ; put in the butter to dissolve ; then put in the 
cutlets and brown both sides slowly ; add the gravy, and sim- 
mer as gently as possible for half an hour. Serve with any 
purée of vegetables poured round ; the cutlets being in the 
centre with the ends of the bones raised in the middle of the 
dish. 


7.—Fillets of Mutton. 


Remove the fillet or meaty part wholly from the bone 


Ingredients of Pickle. of a loin of mutton; pare away 
1 quart of water . o . 
I pint of vinegar all the fat and sinew, and divide it 
4 cloves . . . 
4 pepper-corns across in the middle into two equal 
1 teaspoonful of salt t b-divide th 
I onion artS ; SUD-dlVI 
; carrot - sliced P “1 e these lengthways 
é head of celery in ; 
1 bunch of parsley to our ets ; if properly cut 
rT 5, 9 thyme they will not require trimming. 


Put all the ingredients for the pickle into a basin, lard the 
fillets with fat bacon, lay them in the pickle, cover them over 
and leave them for four hours. Drain them and lay them 


86 DAINTY .DISHES FOR INDIAN. TABLES. 


in a bright tin dish with half oz. of butter under each and a 
gill of the clear pickle poured over them, and put them, in a 
quick oven to bake for quarter of an hour. Hold a salaman- 
der over them for a moment, and dish them up in a circle 
with any purée of vegetables or white mushroom sauce in 
centre, 


SECOND DRESSINGS OF MUTTON. 


1.—Saddle of Mutton a la Polonaise. 


Cut all the rheat from a cold saddle and mince it 


Ingredients. fine ; put it into a degchee with 
¥ pint of brown sauce or gravy 
1 sprig of parsle the gravy, parsley and shalot 
1 shalot choppe 
1 saltspoonful of pepper (chopped), the pepper, salt and 


1 teaspoonful of salt 


1 dessertspoonful of Oudesauce Qude sauce; stir over the fire 
12 potatoes 


2 oz. of butter for ten minutes. Boil and mash 
2 yolks of eggs 

f Saltspoonful of san er the potatoes and stir them over 
Some breadcrumbs the fire for a few minutes with 
4 eggs 


a wooden spoon, adding the but- 
ter, two yolks, salt and pepper, until it becomes a firm paste. 
Fill up the bone of the saddle with this, leaving only a little 
space for the mince in the centre ; when this is filled up the 
saddle should have assumed its original shape. Egg over 
the potato crust, strew the mince thickly with bread-crumbs, 
bake in the oven for half an hour till of a light brown color ; 
poach the four eggs, place them on the saddle, pour a little 


gravy or sauce round the base, and serve. 
Note.—This is a most excellent dish, and looks very nice. 


2.—Mutton hashed Venison fashion. 


Cut some slices of cold mutton % of an inch thick ; 


Ingredients, trim off the skin and browned 
1 saltspoonful of salt . 
% oz. of white pepper fat. Season with the pepper, 


1 desertspoonful of baked flour 
% ofa pint of strong gravy salt and baked flour. -Make 


88 DAINTY DISHES FOR INDIAN TABLES. 


Ingredients . 
1e eee on Jackin. “4 some gravy with the bones and 
1 kidne : ° 
5 shaloe. trimmings of the mutton and 
ly carrot : 
2 oz. of sheep’s liver the kidney, shalot, carrot, and 
t tablespoonful of red current olive (all ch opp ed); strain it, an d 


Jelly 
1 i ba 1 1 
% wineglassful of port wine put it with the mutton into a 


small degchee ; put it over a slow fire and let it scarcely 
simmer for 14% hours. Stir the red current jelly, add the 
wine, and serve immediately with a dish of French beans. 

Plain Hashed Mutton is prepared in the same way as the 
above, omitting the jelly and wine. Serve with small sippets 
of toast round the dish, and the bones grilled. 


3—Fillet of Mutton. 


Cut a neat compact piece (about 1% lbs.) off a cold roast 


_ Angredients. leg of mutton ; put it into a deg- 
I onion finely . . 
3 large mushrooms $ chopped chee with the onion and mush- 
1 oz. of butter 


1 dessertspoonful of flour rooms; knead the flour with the 
The strained juice of a lemon 4 

1 teaspoonful of salt butter, put it into the degchee 
1 saltspoonful of pepper ’ 

1 teacupful of gravy and add the lemon-juice, salt, pep- 


1 small wineglassful of marsala 
per and gravy ; simmer very gently for 34 of an hour; shake 


the ‘stewpan frequently, baste the mutton with the gravy, 
skim off all the fat, add the marsala, and serve at once. 


4.—Pounded Mutton Cutlets with Tartar Sauce. 


Cut half a pound of cold roast mutton, free it from skin 
Ingredients. and fat, put it into a mortar with 
1 oz. of cooked ham (or tongue) the ham and garlic and pound 


1 piece of garlic the size of a ; bh 
pea e e ° e 
. citspoonful of pepper it into a paste; season. with t 


oz. of dissolved butter . . 
3 tablespoonsful of mutton pepper, butter and gravy; mix 
gravy well and let it stand in a cool 


place for an hour. Divide it into six parts, lay each in a 


SECOND DRESSING OF MUTTON. 89 


piece of oiled paper and fold in the form of a cutlet and 
fry twelve minutes, Serve inthe paper with Tartar sauce 
(No. 12) in a separate dish. 


5.— Minced Mutton Cutlets with Tomato Sauce. 


Cut one ib. of cold mutton into thin slices, remove all fat 


Ingredients. and gristle; mince as fine as 
1 teaspoonful of salt . . 
I yg: Pepper possible ; season with salt, pep- 
1 grain of cayenne 
¥% shalot (chopped) per, cayenne and shalot ; put the 


4 tablespoonsful of mutton 


gravy isinglass into the mutton gravy to 
1 drachm of isinglass . . . . 
1 oz. of dissolved butter dissolve it; add it to the mince; 
x1 beaten egg . . 
Some flour put in the dissolved butter and 


stir until firm. Form the mince into seven or eight cutlets ; 
dip them first into beaten egg and then into flour, and let 
them stand in a cool place for an hour. Dip them again 
into beaten egg and flour, and fry them in plenty of boiling 
fat over a quick fire for eight minutes. Serve the cutlets round 
the dish and the tomato sauce (No. 34) in the centre. 

These cutlets may also be served with any purée of vege- 
tables instead of the tomato sauce, or with celery or Sou- 
bise sauce (see recipe.) 


6.—Minced Mutton with Macaroni. 


Chop the mutton quite fine and season with the salt, pep- 


Ingredients. per and flour; rub a degchee 
% Ib. of cold mutton . 
1 saltspoonful of salt three times across the bottom 
I oy »» pepper ; 
1 tablespoonful of flour with garlic; put in the mutton 


1 teacupful of gravy 
1 dessertspoonful of walnut ket- ond add the gravy, ketchup, 


chup 


1 tablespoonful of Oude sauce 7 - im. 
1 dessertspoonful of walnut sauce, pickle and brandy ; sim 


pickle . . 
1 desertspoonful of brandy mer gently and stir occasionally 
¥ Ib, of macaroni for half an hour. Boil the ma- 


M 


go DAINTY DISHES FOR INDIAN TABEES. 


Ingredients for Minced Mutton caroni in the water. for half an 


wrth ACAYOR. 
1 quart of water hour ; drain; put it into a sauce- 
¥% pint of new milk 
1 oz. of butter pan with the milk, butter, salt, 


14 saltspoonful of salt . 
», mustard (made) mustard and cayenne, and sim- 


¥ grain ‘of cayenne . 
mer very gently till tender (about 
a quarter of an hour or twenty minutes.) Place it round the 


dish in the form of a wall, put the mince in the centre, and 
serve. 


7.—Mutton with Mushrooms. 
Cut the mutton into neat slices a quarter of an inch thick, 


Ingredients. and trim off the fat and gristle ; 
1 lb. of cold roast leg . . . 
x onion rub a pie-dish four times across 
3 0z. of butter . ° 
1 teaspoonful of salt the bottom with garlic ; chop 
1 saltspoonful of pepper . : , 
Y% grain of cayenne the onion quite fine; put it into 

large mushrooms . ; 

2 teacupful of mutton gravy the dish with one oz. of the but- 


ter ; season the meat with the salt, pepper and cayenne ; put 
half of it into the dish ; peel the mushrooms, cut them into 
slices, lay them on the meat; add one oz. of the butter in 
four pieces ; put in the rest of the meat, add another ounce 
of butter ; pour over the mutton gravy; cover closely with 
another dish, and bake in a slow oven for 34 of an hour. 
Serve very hot. 


VEAL. 


—— 


1.—Chump end of the loin of Veal stuffedand roasted. 
If possible keep the veal three or four days. Make a 


4 ox. of Ingredients stuffing by chopping the suet and 
z 02, of lean ham | the yolk of the hard-boiled egg 
1 oz. of fine bread-crumbs quite fine ; add the ham pounded, 


I saltspoonful fe white pepper 
1 teaspoonful of chopped parsley _ 
1 teaspoonful of mixed herbs the bread-crumbs, pepper, parsley, 


Grated rind of 14 lemon i . ; 

2 raw eggs herbs, and lemon rind; mix all 
r dessertspoonfa of flour well together ; add two yolks well 
2% saltspoonful of salt beaten and one white ; with sharp 


Some cut lemon 


knife loosen the skin round the thick part of the joint; put 
in the stuffing ; secure it with skewers. Butter a sheet of 
white paper, fasten it over the veal and hang it cose to a 
good fire for twenty minutes; then withdraw it to a distance 
and roast slowly till done, allowing 26 minutes to the 
pound ; baste frequently ; half an hour before serving re- 
move the paper that the veal may become nicely browned. 
Knead the two ounces of butter with the flour, and stir 
into % of a pint of boiling water; add the salt, and boil 
ten minutes; pour off the dripping; stir the veal gravy 
into the melted butter ; place the veal on a hot dish, the 
broad side downwards, pour the gravy over, and serve at 
once with the cut lemon on a plate. 


2.—Loin of Veal a la Creme. 
Get the kidney end of the loin of veal; wrap it securely in 


Q2 DAINTY DISHES FOR INDIAN TABLES, 


buttered paper fastened with some string; hang it close 
to a good fire for twenty minutes, then at a distance for 
1% hours; then put a clean dish under it and baste it all 
over continuously with a pint of cream; as the veal turns 
round and round, this will form a delicate light brown crust ; 
when removing the veal to serve it up great care must be 
taken not to knock this crust off. Knead two ounces of 
butter with one dessertspoonful of flour, and stir into ¥ of 
a pint of boiling water; simmer ten minutes. Cut a 
round of bread % of an inch thick, take off the crust, toast 
a pale brown color ; place the veal on the toast; pour off 
the dripping ; add the gravy to the melted butter and pour 
it round the veal, zo¢ over it. Twelve button mushrooms 
or one pint of peas may be added to the sauce. 


NVote.—All joints of, veal may be dressed in this fashion, 


3.—Small Fricandeau of Veal. 


Have about three lbs. of veal, either the middle of the loin 


Ingredients. or the best end of the neck; cut 

Some fat bacon . . . 

Some garlic, fresh cut it off in one compact piece; 

I sliced : : 

1 small carrot f trim off the skin and fat, and 

1 mushroom, chopped 

¥% lettuce j i 7] : 

é lettuce lard it thickly with the bacon; 

1 pies mace rub the bottom of the degchee 

fee nan oe epper across three times with the gar- 
fi f bd ba “ : 

of een water eee lic ; place in the veal with all the 


tablespoonful of good brandy, ; 
or wineglassful of sherry’ ingredients except the wine or 


brandy ; cover the larding with writing paper, thickly but- 
tered; simmer it as gently as possible for three hours; 
take off the paper, baste the veal, and continue to sim- 
mer half an hour longer. Take out the veal, skim off all 
the fat, and rub the gravy and vegetables through a hair 


VEAL. 93 


seve or coarse cloth; add the brandy or wine, and serve 
the gravy over the veal. 

Note.—The cold Fricandeau makes an excellent Mayonnaise —see 
Teceipt for Mayonnaise of fowl. 

A large Fricandeau is cut from the prime piece of the 
fillet, six inches long and four broad. Proceed exactly as 
in the above, but instead of the wine add the strained 
juice of one lemon, and serve with a purée of either spinach, 
sorrel, or young green peas and a cupful of the gravy. 


4.—Stewed Breast of Veal with White Sauce. 


Heat a small degchee and rub it four times across the 


Ingredients. bottom with garlic; have a neat- 
Some fresh cut garlic . 
2 shalots ly cut square piece of breast of 
1 blade of mace os 
The thin rind of 34 lemon veal, about three fbs., place it in 
1 sprig of thyme . 
1» 9) Parsley a degchee ; tie the shalots, mace, 


1 teaspoonful of salt. 
1 saltspoonful of white pepper § lemon-peel, thyme and_ parsley 


2 yolks of eggs 

% gill of thick cream ina muslin bag; put them into 
the degchee also; add a pint of water; boil up quickly, 
skim ; add the salt and pepper, and simmer as gently as 
possible for 3% hours. Beat the yolks with the cream ; take 
out the muslin bags ; skim every particle of fat off the veal, 
stir in the egg and cream and serve at once. 

Note.—It is a good addition to boil 14 pints of green-peas, and put 

them into the sauce five minutes before serving. 


5.—Stewed Breast of Veal with Oysters. 


Get a nice piece of breast of veal cut in a neat square; 


Ingredients. put it in a degchee with the 
4 Ibs. of veal ; 
2% large onion onions, cloves, mace, cinnamon, 


2 cloves 


1 blade of mace parsley and thyme all tied up 


94 DAINTY DISHES FOR INDIAN TABLES. 


Ingredients for Stewed Breast ° . 
of Veal with Oysters. loosely in a muslin bag 


1 inch of cinnamon in the lemon-juice and 
1 sprig of parsley . : 

1 small sprig of thyme liquor ; simmer very ge! 
The juice of 1 large lemon . 

The liquor of 3 dozen oysters three hours, and skim ofte 
3 yolks of eggs 

x gill of cream out the bag; beat the yo 


3 dozen oysters . 
the cream; put in the 


simmer five minutes, stir till the sauce thicker 
serve. 


6.—Galatine of Veal. 
Have a piece of the breast of veal twelve inches Ic 


; eaninns : seven broad; put it into 

I dessertspoontul of silte sugar . . ° 

I 4 » salt chee which will just hold 

1 onion, . 

zee fa sliced sufficient water to cover 
7 bd 

1 turnip, add the sugar, salt, and sli 

12 eggs 


z teaspoonful of Anchovy sauce . ° : 
1 saltspoonful of white pepper getables 5) boil up quickly, 


The grated rind of 1 lemon : 
2 teaspoonsful of chopped parsley simmer gently for two 
rs 


fin cpowde ” mixed herbs in Boil the eggs har d, pot 
Te of aiid lees bom yolks ; add the Anchovy 

4 truffles . . 
1 piece of fresh cut garlic white pepper, grated rin 


¥% saltspoonful of salt 
The straiaed juice of a lemon ley, herbs and butter, m: 


Cut the ham into strips half inch broad and three 
long, and as thin as possible; slice the truffles. T: 
the veal, remove the bones and gristle and lay it | 
skin downwards ; rub the surface with the garlic, three 
across; sprinkle over the salt, rub in the lemor 
spread the egg paste equally over; lay on the ha 
truffles in lines ; roll up the veal as lightly as possibl 
it up in a strong cloth; put it back into the pot w 
bones and pieces and simmer very gently three 
longer. Take out the veal, place it between two | 


VEAL. 95 


tn a heavy weight on the upper one; when cold remove 
1€ cloth. May be glazed or garnished with savoury jelly. 


WV ote.—Reserve the liquor for soup in an uncovered earthen pan. 


7.—Veal and Ham Pie. 


Have the cutlets free from skin and bones, cut it into 


Ingredients. 1¥% inch pieces; cut the ham a 

1% Ibs. of veal cutlets 2 . P ? © ham as 
1% 1b. of mild ham thin as it can be cut, and then 
4 button mushrooms . ‘nch pj 

EX snhalot I e 

_ J apoonfl of at into 134 inch pieces; chop the 
1 » white pepper 

Ser butte’ mushrooms and shalot and fry 
x dessertspoonful of Harvey them with butter in a small 


sauce 
1 gill of veal broth or cold 


eter degchee; add the pepper and 
The seen tuice Mour mon salt, the sauce, broth and flour, 
* SBS Paste. - and stir over the fire till it 
Hel cold water — boils ; then add the lemon-juice. 
7 02, of butter Butter the edge of a 10-inch pie- 


dish ; put in the veal and ham in layers; pour in the sauce, 
and finish with a layer of hard-boiled eggs. Make a paste 
as follows :—Moisten the flour with the water and lemon- 
juice; press the paste out ona slab; put the butter in the 
centre ; cover it up ; roll out four times, then let it stand for 
two hours in a cool place or on ice; then take a sixth part 
of the paste ; roll it out thin and line the edge of the dish 
with it ; moisten with cold water ; roll the remainder out the 
sie of the dish; put it over, press the edge to make it 
adhere ; trim round with a sharp knife and notch at inch 
distances ; make a hole in the centre for the steam to escape, 
Ornament to fancy, and bake in a moderate oven for two 
hours, Serve with cut lemon. 


Note.—If ham cannot be obtained streaky bacon may be substituted. 


96 DAINTY DISHES FOR INDIAN ‘TABLES. 


8.—Veal Cutlets. 
The fillet should be about % of an inch thick ; cut it ir 


Ingredients. nine oblong pieces, all of t 
1% lbs. of fillet of veal . . . 
8 oz. of butter same size; trim off the skin, f 
pome baked flour ” h 
ine bread-crumbs : di 1 1 
1 dessertspoonful of baked and corners ? dip each piece I 
flour 1 
he strained juice of x emon two oz. of dissolved butter a 
¥% saltspoonful of salt : : 7 . 
e gill of water dredge it lightly with flour; 


aeien hers of bacon them stand ten minutes; th 


dip them again into butter and strew them on both sic 
with bread-crumbs ; fry in the remainder of the butter, els 
oz., Jotling, at some distance from the fire for twei 
minutes ; they must be of a gale brown color,on both sid 
Strain the butter, mix in the flour, lemon-juice, salt, a 
water (boiling) and mushrooms; boil up, skim, and simn 
ten minutes (in the frying pan). Roll the rashers, pu 
skewer through them and roast before the fire while | 
cutlets are frying; place the veal and bacon alternat 
round the dish, and the sauce in the centre. Serve very h 


9.—Veal Cutlets a la Maintenon. 


(In paper. ) 

Chop very finely the bacon, bread-crumbs, shalot, pars! 

Ingredients. and mushroom (or truffle). 
1 02, of bread-crumbs 
2 ,, ,, fat bacon them together, add the grat 
1 small shalot . ; 
x sprig of parsley lemon, rind, nutmeg, sweet her 
A large mushroom (or a truffle) 
Grated rind of 34 a lemon salt and pepper. Cut three chc 


One tenth of a nutmeg 
A saltspoonful of mixed sweet off the best end of the neck 


herbs 
2 2 saltspoonful of salt veal ; take off the skin and t 
a +B] 29 pepper . 
chine part of the bone; cor 
three sheets of foolscap paper, with three ounce of butte 


dissolve two ounce of butter, dip the cutlets into it, a 


VEAL. 97 


hem. into the seasoned crumbs ; lay each on a sheet of paper, 
oll the edge tightly round, preserving the shape of the cutlet, 
inci boil slowly in plenty of lard for an hour, drain on a 
siewe before the fire, and serve in the paper. 


xro.— Veal Cutlets, braised with fresh Tomatos. 
‘Trim the skin off the veal and cut it into eight neat 


Ingredients. pieces ; place the cutlets and but- 
1% Ibs. of veal cutlet . 
% Ub. of butter ter In a.stewpan ; when the butter 
t dessertspoonful of baked . 
flour dissolves dredge over the flour, 
anchovies 
a clove of garlic and let them very slowly become 
i oz. of mild lean ham . 
1 small onion a pale brown colour on both sides. 
¥, pine ripe tomatos ted 
sth of anutmeg gra 
of aaltrooticlotwhite pep. Clean and pound to paste the 
per e e . 
t gramof cayenne anchovies, garlic and ham ; peel 
t ba bd eo ° 
: salspoonfal of vinegar and slice the onion and tomatos, 
2 ta . ° 
sherry ulofmarsalaor and the nutmeg, white pepper, 


cayenne, lemon-juice, vinegar, marsala or sherry; put all 
these ingredients into the stewpan with the cutlets and 
simmer as slowly as possible for an hour and a quarter ; 
skim frequently, and shake the stewpan to prevent burning 
at the bottom. Serve quite hot. 


11.—Sweetbreads, with Truffles. 


Blanch the sweetbreads in boiling water five minutes 


Se conn, Meee: and in cold for an hour; remove 
X of alos of butt he fat, skin and pith; dry th 
. OL Outter ° 
Sone baked pute the fat, skin and pitn ; dry them, 
ruffle j i 
‘al of mar sala and dredge them lightly with 
tspoonful of salt . . 
ts» White pepper baked flour; place them on a tin 
vice Poonful of lemon: dish and baste well with the dis- 
In . e 
i desertspoostat of baked -« SOlved utter; bake till nicely 
le 
202. of butter browned, about half an hour. 


N 


98 DAINTY DISHES FOR INDIAN TABLES. 


Peel and slice the truffles; put them into a stewpan wit 
the marsala, salt, white pepper, and lemon-juice; simmer ter 
minutes, and add the stock. Knead the baked flour anc 
butter, and stir in for five minutes; put in the sweetbreads 
and continue to simmer half an hour longer ; then serve. 


Note.—For other ways of dressing sweetbreads, see Lamb sweetbreads 


12.—Créustade of Sweetbreads, Mushrooms, an 
Potato Balls. 


The loaf to be baked in an oval cake-tin. Cut off th 


Ingredients. : top above the tin; scoop out th 
A 2 lb. loaf, one day ol . . 
% Ib. of ofled butter crumb, leaving 34 of an inch al 
sweet breads 
A dessertspoonful of baked round and at the bottom; par 
our . . 
Garlic off the crust, dip the case int 
2 oz. of butter . te 
1 teaspoonful of salt. the oiled butter, and put it int 
1 saltspoonful of white pepper . 
oth of a grated nutmeg the oven for twenty minutes 
Thin rind ef A a lemon oo 
sprigs of parsley 
$e Oa OF seace redip it in the butter, and let 
cloves . . : 
Strained juice ofa lemon remain in the oven till ofa pa 
tabies ns of white wine bd 
i" seacupful of veal stock, bright brown colour. (Or a pas 
oO. 2 
The yolks of 2 eggs case may be used, see note 
a utton mushrooms Cut off the pith and skin of th 
t 
The: juice of a lemon sweetbreads, and blanch ther 
tatoes e eqs . 
4 a saltspoonful of salt in boiling water for five minutes 
oz. Of iF utter ° . . 
4 of a gill of cream Cut into equal sized pieces, anc 
One well beaten egg . 
Some milk throw them into cold water for a! 


hour ; take them out, wipe them dry, and dredge over thi 
baked flour. Ruba bright stewpan four times across th 
bottom with garlic, put in the butter, sweetbreads, salt 
white pepper, nutmeg, rind of lemon, parsley, mace, cloves 
lemon-juice, white wine, and veal stock ; boil up quickl) 
skim ; then simmer gently for three quarters of an how! 


VEAL, 99 


Take out the sweetbreads ; skim and strain the sauce ; add 
the eggs beaten up with the cream; boil two minutes. Skin 
the mushrooms; throw them into a pint of boiling water, 
with the salt and lemon-juice; boil fast for twelve minutes, - 
and drain on a sieve. Boil the potatoes, add the salt, butter, 
cream and beaten egg and put them into fast boiling milk for 
two minutes ; then drainona sieve. Put the sweetbreads, 
mushrooms, and potato-balls in alternate layers into the bread 
case, and pour the sauce over ; serve quite hot, with a neatly 
rolled napkin on the dish. 


£Vote,—Make a paste (see Veal Patties), roll it out, the last time 
am inch and a quarter thick ; cut it with a vol-au-vent cutter six inches 
in diameter. Make an incision a quarter of an inch deep, witha 
cutter an inch smaller ; bake about three-quarters of an hour, Take 
out the centre, and proceed as directed. 


13.—Veal Patties. 


Put the lemon-juice in the water, and stir in sufficient 


Ingredients. to moisten the flour; knead to 
fot ead water | a smooth paste ; lay it on a slab, 
. of fresh bute and spread the butter over it ; 
202, of ham turn over the four sides ; dredge 
The grated rind of 34 a lemon ‘ . 

One tenth of a males: nutmeg it with flour, and roll out. Do 


% saltspoonful white pepper . . o. 
salt this four times ; then fold it in 


” 99 sa 
I teaspoonful of Parmesan cheese . . 
ed. three, and let it stand in a cool 


grat 
1 tablespoonful of baked flour 


Some veal stock place for two or three hours. 
Strained juice of % a lemon . . 
A agill of thick cream Roll out again twice, the second 


time a third of an inch thick. Have ready two circular 
patty cutters; one 214 inches across, and the other 1% 
inch, Dip the cutters into flour, and cut out eight of 
“the larger size ; press the smaller size on the centre of 


SAVTIAR 


roo DAINTY DISHES FOR INDIAN TABLES. 


each piece of paste, cutting it 3th of an inch dee 
Roll out the remainder of the paste, and cut out eight of t 
smaller size. Place them all on a baking tin, and ba 
in a qujck oven till of a pale brown colour, about twer 
minutes. Take them out, and with a sharp penkn 
remove the centre paste from the larger pieces ; fill tl 
vacancy with veal prepared as follows, then place tl 
smaller piece over the centre, and serve immediatel: 
Mince quite small the veal and ham, season with the lemo 
rind, nutmeg, white pepper, salt, cheese and baked flou 
Put it in a saucepan with sufficient veal stock to well moiste 
it, and simmer gently ; stirring constantly for a quarter ¢ 
an hour. Add the strained juice of half a lemon, and th 
cream ; then fill the patties as directed. 


14.—Calf’s Head, boiled, with White Sauce. 


Put the vinegar and salt into a pan of cold water an 


Ingredients. soak the head in it for abo 
A cane of vin ar, twenty minutes; then well wa: 
ee pat eran . it in fresh water ; trim off tl 
A eee ce arsley rough black pieces from tl 


oz. of butter 


a salspoonful of salt mouth; take out the tongue ar 
grates of . . 
A cutlemon brains and put them in cold wate 


. of b . . 
3 tablespoonsful of baked four Put the head into a big degche 
% agill of thick cream . . 
Strained juice of }4 a lemon the -split side downwards,” an 
1s button mushrooms or a des- . . =. . 
sertspoonful of finely chopped entirely Cover it with cold wate 
parsley. . . 5 
Boil up quickly, then skim, an 
simmer very gently till done. Be careful to ketp the hea 
well covered with water. Half of a very small head wi 
require an hour and three quarters from the time of boilin; 
up; a moderate size, two hours and twenty minutes. Ti 


the brain in a piece of muslin with the sage leaf and parsley 


VEAL. I0r 


Put in the tongue and brains three quarters of an hour 
before. the head is done. Rub the brains through a sieve 
or coarse cloth; put them into a saucepan with half ounce 
of butter, half saltspoonful of salt, and two grates of nutmeg. 
Skin and trim the’tongue ; put it on a small dish, and pour 
the brains ‘over it. Lay the head upon a hot dish, the 
split side downwards, and serve immediately with a cut- 
lemon upon a plate and a white sauce (see Sauces) poured 
over it, with either the mushrooms or parsley. 


Note,—Reserve the liquor in an earthen pan uncovered for stock or soup. 


15.—Calf’s Head Brawn. 
Get the half of a fine large calf’s head with the skin on. 


Ineredients of the Pickle. Take out the brains, and bone it 
% of anoz. of saltpetre entirely ; rub a little fine salt over 
* 92. of common salt it, and leave it to drain for twelve 
3 02. of bay salt ; ’ 


4 Oz, of treacle 


hours. Wipe it dry; mix the salt- 
petre, salt, and bay salt, and powder them very fine; rub 
this well into every part of the head ; leave it in this pickle 
for four or five days, turning it daily, and rubbing in a little 
of the pickle each time; then pour the treacle over it ; 
continue to turn it every day and baste it with the brine for 
4 month. Then hang it up for a night to drain; wrap it in 
brown paper, and send it to be smoked where wood only is 
bumed, from three to four weeks. When wanted for table 
Wash and scrape it very clean but do not soak it; lay it with 
the rind downwards in a saucepan which will hold it easily ; 
Cover it well with cold water as it will swell considerably in 
the cooking; let it heat rather slowly ; skim it when it first 
begins to simmer, and boil it as gently as possible for two 
hours, or even more should it not be ¢horoughly tender all 


102 DAINTY DISHES FOR INDIAN TABLe=». 


through. When the fleshy side of the head is done, whick 
will be twenty miuutes or half an hour sooner than the 
outside, pour some of the water off it, leaving only enough 
to cover the gelatinous part, and simmer this until it is guz#z 
tender. 

This head will be found most delicious eating with Oxford 
Brawn sauce (see recipe.) 


16.—Calfs Feet with Sharp Sauce. 


Boil the feet for four hours in sufficient water to cove! 


Ingredients. them; simmer and skim occ2® 
2 feet : . . . 
2 2. of fine bread-crumbs sionally ; split them, and trim ofi 
I ts niul o t ° 
% ~ »» white pepper any rough pieces, and roll thex™ 


# Sve of gate, chord fne in a cloth to dry ; season thre 

Salad oi Hot a pint oF 6 08. of bread-crumbs with the salt, peppe*®; 
nutmeg and garlic; mix thes¢ 
ingredients well. Dip the feet into the beaten egg, ther 
in the crumbs; let them remain a quarter of an hour 
then redip them and fry either in the oil or butter abou 
ten minutes till of a pale brown color. Serve very hc 
with the sharp sauce on a separate dish. 
Sharp Sauce, 

Two tablespoonsful of vinegar, one dessertspoonful « 

brown sugar, one teaspoonful of mustard, mix well. 


17.—Calf’s Brains, fried. 


Two sets of brains ; take off the skin; wash them inc 


Ingredients. water, and cut them into ! 
ill of vinegar . 
x dessertspoontul of salt slices, then throw them into 


2 tablespoonful of baked flour 
1 t claret glass of cream quarts of boiling water, with 


7% Ooh ot parsley vinegar and salt; let then 


VEAL. 103 


nain an hour; wash them again in cold water, and roll them 
n aclioth to dry. | 

Make the batter with the flour, eggs and cream, and beat 
with a wooden spoon for twenty minutes. Dissolve the 
dutter in the frying pan; dip each piece of brain into the 
outter and fry to a pale yellow color over a gentle fire ; 
serve with fried parsley. 

Wash a bunch of parsley, dip it In the boiling butter for 
three minutes and dry on a sieve before the fire; place it 
in the centre of the dish with the brains round it. Serve 
very hot. 

4Note,—May also be served with Mayonnaise Sauce. An excellent 
dish. 


18.—Calfs Brains with White Sauce. 


Clean and branch the brains as in the preceding receipt, 


Ingredients. and cut each into four pieces, 
2 sets of brains . 
t onion sliced put them into a small saucepan 
rigs of parsley ; 
x pi of veal broth with the onion, parsley and 
ZI lemon . 
1 saltspoonful of salt broth ; simmer for three-quarters 


of anhour. ‘Take out the brains, strain the sauce and pre- 
pare white sauce (see Sauces) with it. When it is ready put 
in the brains with the juice strained, and the salt, simmer 


ten minutes, and serve. 
Note-—The brains may also be served with Dutch Sauce. 


19.—Calf's Brains with Brown Sauce. 


Take off the skin ; wash the brains well in cold water; 


Ingredients. put them into a stewpan with a 
2 sets of brains 
2 tablespoonsful of vinegar quart of water, one tablespoon- 


134 te ful of sal . 
1 clove of garlic ful of vinegar, one teaspoonful of 


104 DAINTY DISHES FOR INDIAN TABLES. 


Ingredients of Caif's Brains salt, the garlic, and boil for a quar- 
with Brown Sauce. ° 

2 oz. of Dutter e bd bd 

Some baked flour ter of an hour; drain on a sieve. 

2 Shalots bd ; ° e 

3 mushrooms Dissolve the butter; dip in the 


1 tablespoonful of rum : . ; 

% of a nutmeg grated brains, dr edge with the flour ; 
I in of cayenne , ; 

I teaspoonful of, loaf sugar place them on a tin dish and 

t saltspoonful of curry powder = bake in a moderate oven three- 


1 dessertspoonful of baked flour 
r claret glass of stock (No.1) quarters of an hour; baste fre- 


quently with the butter. Chop the shalots and mushrooms, 
put them into a saucepan with a tablespoonful of vinegar, 
the rum, nutmeg, cayenne, sugar, and curry powder, and 
stir over the fire for ten minutes. Knead the ounce of 
butter with the dessertspoonful of baked flour, add the 
stock, simmer and stir for quarter of an hour. Place the 
brains on a hot dish, pour over the sauce, and serve. 


20.—Kabobes and Kedcheree. 


Cut the cutlets a third of an inch thick ; and then into neat 


Ingredients. pieces two inches square; put 
wines of gies them into 3 of a pint of water 
vinegar with the two kinds of vinegar, 
¥ See ogn lite Leuised salt and garlic. Let them re- 
bof nce pees main an hour. Wash the split 
oz. of butter peas, and boil them for 2% hours 
1 teaspoonful of salt . . . 
Y% of asaltspoonful of carda- in a pint of water; add the rice 
\y of a nutmeg grated (well washed) and continue to 


2 beaten eggs 


14 tablespoonful of curry powder boil for 25 minutes, stirring fre- 
% of a lb. of butter 


1 lemon quently to keep it from burning. 
Chop the onions, fry in eight ounces of butter till slightly 


= 


. 


browned ; drain off the water, add the peas and rice to the - 


onions, season with the salt, cardamoms and nutmeg. Stir 
and fry till the butter is all absorbed, and the whole is of a 


VEAL. 105 


pale brown color; then stir in the water drained from the 
rice and peas. Wipe the veal dry, dip each piece in a beaten 
egg, then in the curry powder, and fry slowly in a quarter of 
a pound of butter till nicely browned on both sides (about 25 
minutes.) Lay in the centre of a hot dish, pour over the 
strained juice of the lemon, place the kedcheree round it, 
and serve at once. 


21.—Potted Vealand Tongue. 
The meat must be quite free both from bone, skin, fat 


Ingredients. and gristle. Mince and then 
% of a Ib. of cold roast or = =pound in a mortar, till in soft 


¥% Ib. of cold tongue . H 
2 tablespoonsful of veal gravy Paste; add the gravy while pound- 


1% mastardapoonfil of fea ing ; season with the sauce, mus- 
made mustar 
1% saltspoonful of white pepper tard, pepper and nutmeg. Cross 
tes of nutme ° 
3 o. of dissolved butter the bottom of the pestle once with 


Garlic . . . 
garlic, continue to pound until 

the seasoning and meat are well mixed, then add five ounces 
of dissolved butter. When the whole is soft and smooth 
press it into a raised pie-dish or large gallipot, flatten the 


top with a knife, and pour over two ounces of dissolved 
butter. 


PORK. 


oe 


1.—Roast Loin of Pork, seasoned. 


Score the skin with a very sharp knife at half inch dis- 
Ingredients. tances. Soak the onion in cold 
1 large onion 


1 saltspoonful of finely pow. water and plenty of salt for an 
- dered sage 


¥% saltspoonful of white pepper hour; then chop it quite fine; 

2 »+ Of flour of mustard 

Some butter and salt add the sage, pepper, and mus- 
tard ; mix this seasoning well together and rub it over the 
pork ; spread a sheet of white paper with butter, fold it 
round the pork, and roast before a brisk fire at a distance 
allowing half an hour to the pound, and basting frequently; 
half an hour before serving take off the paper and continue 
to baste till the pork is nicely browned and the skin crisp. 
Pour off the fat; add a gill of boiling water or thin stock to the 
gravy dripped from the meat. Pour it into a hot dish, place 
the pork on it, skin uppermost, and serve with a tureen of 
apple or tomato sauce. (See Sauces.) 


2.—Loin of Pork, French fashion. 
Put a small loin of pork (about 3% lbs.) into a pie-dish, 


‘ngredients, with the salad oil, salt, white 
A small loin Of pork . 
A gill of salad oil pepper, onion (finely chopped), 


2 teaspoonsful of salt 


A saltspoonful of white pepper arlic (chopped). sweet herb 
A small onion & ( Pp )s Ss, 


Half a clove of garlic chopped parsley, and grated 


c 


Ingredients of Loin of Pork, 
French fashion 


A thee of mixed sweet 


A aspoonfu of parsley 
a nutmeg 


A pevediont of Sauces 


One sour apple 
shalots 
The j juice of a lemon_ 


PORK. 107 


nutmeg ; rub the ingredients well 
into the pork ; cover the dish and 
let it stand for two days; then 
hang it before a good fire, and 
roast at a distance for two hours ; 
baste constantly, either with salad 


A teaspoonful of moist sugar 

¥ of a grain cf cayenne 

A mustardspoonful of fresh 
made mustard 

34 a saltspoonful of salt 


oil or dissolved butter. 
Serve with gravy made as fol- 
a Se ae tee tregdy. lows :—Peel and mince the apple 
and two shalots ; put them into a saucepan, with strained 
lemon-juice, moist sugar, cayenne, mustard, salt, and stir over 
the fire until browned; add the stock and boil for a quarter of 
an hour ; stir in a tablespoonful of brandy ; strain and serve 
in the dish, but not poured over the pork. 


3.—Fillets of Pork, with Apple Sauce. 
(Second dressing. ) 
Cut up about 34 of a pound of cold roast pork into slices 
the sixth of an inch thick; sea- 
son the bread-crumbs with the 
white pepper, cayenne, salt, and 
nutmeg (grated); dissolve the 
butter slightly (not to oil); dip 
the pork into the butter, then into the crumbs, lay it in a 
tin dish ; chop the shalots or onion, and strew over ; pour 
the remainder of the butter over, and bake in a moderate 
oven for 34 of an hour. Serve with Apple or Tomato 
sauce ; lay the pork tastefully round the sauce. (See Sauces.) 


Ingredients. 


¥% Ib. of cold roast pork 
3 oz. of fine bread-crumbs 
A saltspoonful of white pepper 
A grain of cayenne 
A saltspoonful of salt 
Léth of a nutmeg 
2 oz. of butter 
3 shalots ora small onion 


4.—Pork Cutlets with Mushroom Sauce. 
‘Cut six or eight chops, the width of the bone from the 


108 DAINTY DISHES FOR INDIAN TABLES. 


Ingredients of Pork Cutlets foreloin of small pork; trim off 
with Mushroom Sauce. ) 
The strained jutce of a lemon the fat and bare the end of the 


z teaspoonful of salt . . 
1 saltspoonful of white pepper bone about oneinch. Mixall the 
i sm onion 


2 sprigs of spersley (/xely ingredients together; rub them 


1 tablespoonful of good oil well over the cutlets and let them 
Ingredients of Sauce. . 4: 
12 button mushrooms remain two hours ’ dip each one 


"ain cayenne into beaten egg and then into 
y teaspoonful of tarragon vine- ne bread-crumbs. Dissolve 
Tie juice of 3% lemon some fat in a bright frying pan 
Om eepouneful of stock and fry the cutlets in it till of a 
I ” ” a 


pale brown color; (about twenty 
minutes) ; drain on a sieve before the fire, pour the following 
sauce over, and serve instantly. 

Peel, clean and chop the mushrooms; season them with 
the salt, cayenne, nutmeg, vinegar and lemon-juice ; put 
them into a small saucepan with the butter, and stir over 
the fire for ten minutes ; add the stock, boil up quickly for 
five minutes, stir in the marsala, and serve at once. 


5.—Bath Chap. 


Soak the chap for twelve hours in cold water; scrape and 
wash it; put it into a saucepan with plenty of cold water, 
and boil gently for 214 hours. Take off the skin, trim off 
the rough parts, and serve either with broad beans, brussels 
sprouts, or young greens, as a garnish. 


6.—Roast Sucking Pig. 


Chop the onions and sage leaves ; fry them in the butter 


_ Angredients. over a slow fire for ten minutes: 
4 fine onions 


1 dozen sage leaves then add the bread-crumbs, yolks, 


2 oz. of butter 


% Ib, of fine bread-crumbs salt and pepper. With this stuff 


PORK, 109 


Ingredients of Roast Sucking Pig. ing fill the paunch of the sucking 
2 yolks of eggs . . 
3 saltspoonsful of salt pig ; sew it up securely, and roast 
Some brown sauce and melted it before a bright fire for two 
hours ; close for ten minutes and 
then at a distance, basting frequently with a paste brush 
dipped in salad oil. When the pig is done, and before re- 
moving it from the spit, cut off the head and divide the pig 
in half by sawing it straight down the spine. Dish it up 
with brown gravy ; put some more In a sauce-boat, and put 
in a little of the stuffing reserved for the purpose, the brains 


and a few spoonsful of melted butter. 


7.—Roast sucking Pig with Chestnuts. 
Prepare as above, but prepare the stuffing as directed for 
roast turkey and chestnuts. (See recipe.) 


8.—To boil a Ham. 

Soak the ham in plenty of cold water for 24 hours; put 
it into a large pot with plenty of co/d water ; boil up slowly ; 
skim; then simmer very gently until done, allowing 28 mi- 
nutes to the pound; take it up by the knuckle, to avoid 
putting a fork into the thick part and so lecting out the 
juice ; pull off the skin ; trim off any rough brown pieces, 
and powder the ham over with brown baked bread-crumbs. 
Cut a frill of white paper three inches deep; roll it round 
the knuckle, and send it to table on a dry warm dish. 

Note.—If the ham weighs more than 12 lbs. allow a quarter of an 


hour for each pound beyond that up to 16 lbs. ; and beyond that weight 
ten minutes for each pound. 


9.—Ham boiled in the French way. 
Soak as directed above, and put into the water in which 


TIO DAINTY DISHES FOR INDIAN TABLES. 


it is to be boiled one quart of cider and a pint of vinegar 
with a large bunch of sweet herbs. When it is two-thirds 
done, skin it, cover it with brown baked bread-crumbs and 
set it in an oven, until it is done, (about 114 or two hours). 
Decorate with a frill, and serve with or without spinach or 
greens as a garnish. 


1o.—Another French recipe for boiling Ham 


After soaking, cleaning and trimming the ham, wrap it 
in a little very sweet, clean hay, and tie it up ina thin 
cloth ; place it ina pan or ham kettle, as nearly its own 
size as possible, and cover it with two parts of water and 
one of white wine or cider; boil up and skim; then add 
five carrots, three onions, a large bunch of savoury herbs, 
and a clove of garlic. Let the whole simmer for four or 
five hours, or longer should the ham weigh over 16 lbs. 
When quite tender take off the skin, sprinkle with baked 
brown bread-crumbs, decorate with a frill, and serve. 


11.—Baked Ham. 
It should be a York Ham which has been kept about a 


Ingredients. year, and should weigh about 
oe 14 lbs. Soak it one night in 


1 head of celery 


r turnip cold water; scrape and well 
1 handful of parsley . °, . 

4 cloves wash it; put it in an iron pot 
Io peppercorns . . 

1 blade of mace with the onion, carrots, celery 


1 clove of garlic . . 
2 tablespoonsful of moist sugar turnip, parsley, cloves, pepper- 


” P . e ° 
Ingredients of Paste corns, mace, garlic, moist sugar, 
2 Ibs. of dripping . 
3 Ibs. of flour and enough water to cover it; 
3 pints of bran . . . 
boil up gently ; skim; then sim- 
mer for two hours, Make a paste as follows :—Rub the 


PORK. Iit 


dripping into the flour and bran ; add enough hot water to 
make a firm paste ; roll it out about one inch thick; put in 
the ham; press the paste round it that it may perfectly 
adhere and keep in the juice; place it on a tin dish and bake 
in a gentle oven for 6% hours. 

If it is to be served cold, let it remain in the paste until 
perfectly cold; then crack the paste, pull off the skin, wipe 
the fat with a soft clean cloth; bush it over thickly with 
glaze (see recipe); put a frill round the knuckle; garnish 
with savoury jelly or parsley, and serve. If it is to be used 
hot, garnish with spinach, brussels sprouts, mashed turnips 


or Carrots. 

Note.—Hams are far better if they are ‘eft to remain in their own 
liquor until cold, as this renders them far more succulent ; but in small 
families this plan does not answer as they will not keep so long ; and 
the same objection exists to serving ham upon, or closely garnished 
with savoury jelly, as it becomes unfit for the table far sooner than the 
hams themselves. 


12.—Brawn. 
Get a medium sized pig’s head; split it open and re- 
Ingredients of Pickle. move the brains and all the 
S salt . . os 
16 02. of saltpetre bones; strew it thickly inside 
6 oz. of sugar . . . . 
i ofa pint of vinegar with salt, let it. drain until the 
Ingredients of Cooking. following day. Cleanse the ears. 
1 large grated nutmeg . 
1¥4 teaspoonsful of mace and feet in the same manner ; 
o9 29 2? cayenne e ° . 
cloves wipe them free from all brine, lay 
I large bunch of savoury herbs h ‘hy d d f . 
2 moderate-siz onions 
2 moderate sized onic them (head, ears and feet) ina 
4 carrots large pan, and rub them well 


1 teaspoonful of peppercorns . 
with the saltpetre and _ sugar, 


mixed ; leave them for twelve hours, then add six ounces of 
salt; leave them until the -following day; then pour the 


I12 DAINTY DISHES FOR INDIAN TABLES. 


vinegar over them, and leave them in the pickle for a week, 
turning them every day. Then wash the ears and feet and 
boil them for one and a half hours; bone the feet while they 
are warm, and trim the gristle from the large ends of the 
ears. When these are ready mix the nutmeg with the mace, 
cayenne and cloves. Wash, but do not soak the head ; wipe 
and flatten it on a board; cut some of the flesh from the 
thickest parts; season the head, ears, and feet with the 
spices, and lay the head on its thickest part ; fit in the ears 
and feet, roll it up very tight and bind it firmly with broad 
tape; fold a thin cloth quite closely round it and tie it 
securely at both ends. Place it in a pot or pan which will 
just hold it; put in the bones and trimmings of the feet and 
ears, together with the bunch of herbs, onions, celery, 
carrots, and peppercorns, and sufficient water to cover it well ; 
boil very gently for four hours, and leave it till nearly cold 
in the liquor in which it was boiled. Then take it out, take 
off the cloth, and put the brawn between two dishes, with a 
heavy weight on the upper one. The next day take off the 
tape, and serve with Oxford brawn sauce. (.S¢e recipe.) 


13.—Mock Brawn. 


Clean the ears, eye-pieces, feet and tongue; rub them with 


Ingredients. the salt and saltpetre, and leave 
Ears, eyepieces, feet and _ton- . 
gue of a medium-sized pig them for five days; put them in 
1 Bb. of common salt . . 
% oz. of saltpetre a pan with cold water, and boil 
2 ox-feet ° . 
Some savoury herbs them gently until they are quite 
2 onions 
2 carrots tender ; pull out the bones and 


¥% teaspoonful of peppercorns . . . 
cut the meat into pieces, the size 


of a walnut. Boil the ox-feet until perfectly tender ; take 
out the bones and all the meat, leaving only the skin; press 


PORK. 113 


the skin flat on a board; cut up the nice part of the meat 
and mix with the pork. Place the meat on the skin; roll it 
up quite tight; put it into a strong cloth, sew it up; boil it 
for two hours, then press it into a round pan or mould which 
will just hold it; put a heavy weight on it, and let it remain 
until next day. Then turn out. Serve with Oxford brawn 
sauce, (see recipe.) 


14.—Sausages and Chestnuts. 
(An excellent French entrée. ) 


Roast and peel the chestnuts; fry the sausages gently in 


Ingredients, butter; when they are well brown- 
40 fine chestnuts 
Some butter a ed take them out and pour the 
T ‘ge teaspooniul o our . ° . 
¥% pint of strong stock fat in which they have been fried 


2 glasses of white wine . . 
1 small bunch of savoury herbs into a bright degchee or sauce- 


1 saltspoonful of salt . of 
go» » Pepper | pan; mix the flour with it; then 
pour in by degrees the stock and 
wine; add the herbs, salt, pepper and cayenne; boil up; lay 
in the sausages round the pan and the chestnuts in the cen- 
tre; stew very gently for an hour; take out the herbs; dish 
the sausages neatly and pile up the chestnuts in the centres 


strain the sauce over them, and serve very hot. 


POULTRY. 


a 


1.—Boiled Turkey with Celery Sauce. 


Chop the beef suet; mix it with the bread-crumbs and 
parsley, and season with the salt, 


Ingredients of sinfine. pepper, nutmeg, lemon rind and 


Y% |b. of beef suet 


2 oz of fine bread-crumbs WI ’ . 
1 tablespoonful of fresh chop- Juice, sweet herbs and thy me; 
ped parsley add the eggs and cream. Put 


1 saltspoonful of salt . . 
, » white pepper = this_ stuffing into the breast of 


i ofa nutmeg grated 
‘The rind of /4 lemon grated the turkey ; fasten the skin loose. 


lhe strained juice of a lemon 


| ? e . 
% saltspoonful of mixed sweet ly over it ; rub the turkey with 
¥% saltspoonful of thyme 

% saltspoonful fresh eggs a cut lemon; cover the breast 


2 tablespounsful of cream 


with thin slices of fat bacon ; tie 
it over with a clean white cloth; put it into a large pot 
with sufficient water to cover it; boil up quickly, then 
simmer gently till done. A turkey weighing ten pounds 
will take two hours, one of fifteen pounds two hours and a 
half. Take it out of the cloth, remove the bacon, and pull 
out the skewers. Place the turkey on a hot dish; pour 
half a pint of the celery sauce (see recipe) over the breast ; 
put the rest of the sauce in a tureen, and serve immediately. 


2.—Boned Turkey served with Tongue and 
Forcemeat. 


Cut the legs off the turkey; scald, trim, and set them 
aside ; bone the turkey without removing the wings ; prepare 


POULTRY. 115 


a veal forcemeat (see recipe) and nearly fill the inside of the 
turkey with it; boil a small pickled tongue slowly for two 
and a half hours; skin it and trim off the root, leaving only 
a portion of the fat ; thrust it into the middle of the force- 
meat ; fasten the skin loosely over it, and then follow the 
preceding recipe in every particular. 

Note. —Turkeys dressed in this fashion and covered with a thick 


Bechamel sauce (see recipe) instead of Cclery sauce, and garnished 
with truffle, tongue, and aspic jelly (see recipe) make an excellent dish 


for ball suppers. 


3.—Turkey stuffed and roasted. 


Prepare the stuffing as follows :—Scrape the pork, veal, 


Ingredients of stuffing. 
¥% lb. of lean pork 


1 
Ib. ,, 5, veal 
20z.,, ,, ham 
¥ |b. of beef suet 
2 oz. of bread-crumbs 
1 tablespoonful of chopped 
parsley 
¥é of a nutmeg grated 
The peel of a lemon grated 
1 saltspoonful of white pepper 
i grain of cayenne 
1 saltspoonful of loaf sugar 


x 


1% salt 
2 ” sweet herbs 
2 », fine powder 


3 well beaten eggs 
The strained juice of a lemon 


Gravy. 


Some garlic 
2 OZ. of butter 
I onion 


1 carrot 
¥% head of celery, sliced 
1 tb. of lean beef 
Ib. ,, 5, veal 

1 0z.,, ,, ham 

2 mushrooms 

2 truffles 

1 clove 

¥ of an inch of mace 

4 white peppercorns 

1 teaspoonful of loaf sugar. 

1 saltspoonful of flour of mus- 

tar 


ham and suet; rub the bread 
crumbs to fine powder: add the 
parsley and mix well together. 
Season with the nutmeg, lemon- 
peel, pepper, cayenne, loaf sugar, 
salt and sweet herbs. Put the 
whole into a mortar and pound 
to a smooth paste ; add _ the beat- 
en eggs and lemon-juice ; when 
well mixed, fill the crop of the 
turkey with it; fasten the skin 
loosely over it and put the remain- 
der into the body; cover it over 
with sheets of white paper thickly 
buttered. Hang the turkey be- 
fore a large fire, near for the first 
twenty minutes, then at a distance 
till done ; baste frequently. A 


116 DAINTY DISHES FOR INDIAN TABLES. 


Ingredients of Gravy for ighi i n will 
Gente ee turkey weighing nine pounds 

x saltspoonful of salt require two and a quarter hours, 
4 sprigs of parsle ° 
: quart of water and beyond that allow ten ml- 
1 tablespoonful of baked flour o.e 

x wineglassful of white wine nutes more for every additional 


pound. Half an hour before serv- 
ing take off the paper ; dredge the turkey slightly with baked 
flour, and baste with dissolved butter until done. Make 
a gravy as follows:—Rub the degchee twice across the bottom 
with garlic; put in the butter, with the onion, carrot and 
celery sliced; add the beef, veal, ham, mushrooms, truffles, 
clove, mace, peppercorns, sugar, mustard, salt and parsley. 
Let it stand by the fire for an hour to brown the meat 
and extract the gravy; add the warm water, and simmer 
gently (skimming frequently) for three and a half hours. 
Mix the flour with the white wine and stir in. Boil fast and 
skim for twenty minutes; then strain; place the turkey ona 
hot dish ; pull out the skewers ; pour some of the gravy into 
the dish (not over the turkey) and the remainder into a 
tureen ; garnish with some fried sausages, and serve at once. 


Note.—Fried plantains are delicious eaten with Roast Turkey. 


4-—Roast Turkey with Chestnut stuffing. 
Prepare the stuffing as follows:—Scald, peel, and scrape 


Ingredients. the chestnuts ; boil them in the 
o Chestnuts : . . 
Y pint of milk milk for twenty minutes with the 
2 oz. of butter . 
1 teaspoonful of salt butter and salt; drain them dry ; 
1 lb. of sansage meat . . ’ 
2 saltspoonsful of pepper mix them with the sauSage meat, 
1 grain of cayenne 


pepper and cayenne. Fill the 
body of the turkey with this stuffing and proceed in every 


particular as in the preceding recipe; only garnish with 
whole stewed chestnuts instead of sausages (about twenty). 


POULTRY. 117 


5.—Roast Turkey with Pate de foie gras Stuffing. 

Mince the sweetbread very fine; mix the pé/é with the 

ib ange sweetbread and_ bread-crumbs 

3 02. j drachms ofswestbrend and bind it together with the 
6 oz. 6 drachms of bread-crumbs . 

The yolks of five eggs yolks. Fill the body of the tur- 

key with this stuffing and proceed in every particular as in 


the recipe for roast turkey. 


6.—Turkey’s Legs broiled. 
(Second dressing.) 


Score the meat of the legs at half inch distances, and 


Ingredients, three-quarters of an inch deep. 
1 saltspoonful of white pepper . 
A yenne Mix the pepper, cayenne, mus- 
I mustardspoonful ¢ of fresh made; . oe 
mustard tard, salt, garlic, and lemon-juice 


salts ful of salt . ‘ 
x piece of garlic, the sizeofa well together; rub this seasoning 
split pea . o ee 
The strained juice of a lemon well into the divisions and all 
over the legs, Place them on a gridiron over a bright fire, 
and broil for twenty minutes at a distance; turn them that 
they may be nicely browned all over. Place them on a hot 
dish, rub over each half an ounce of butter, and send to 


table very hot. 


7.—Pulled Turkey. 
(Second dressing. ) 


Pull the meat off the bones of a cold turkey, in strips, 
Ingredients, by using two forks; make a 


an onion . ° 
% ome gravy with the bones, onion, and 
1 small Fread of celery . : . 
3 oz. of butter turnip fried in one ounce of the 
x saltspoonful of salt . . 

white pepper butter until browned. Season 
: tablespoonful ‘of flour . 
Some garlic the meat with the salt, pepper 


i vablespoonful of sherry 
and flour, Put two oz. of butter 


118 DAINTY DISHES FOR INDIAN TABLES. 


into a bright saucepan, rub the bottom once across with 
garlic; put in the meat, and shake the pan till the butter 
is all absorbed ; then add enough of the gravy (strained) to 
moisten it. Simmer ten minutes, stir in the sherry, and 


serve with fried sippets. 
If a white dish be preferred stew the bones and vege- 


tables (fried but zot drowned) in milk, and substitute two 
tablespoonsful of cream for the sherry ; garnish with slices 
of lemon. 


Note.—For other modes of dressing the remains of turkey, see Second 
dressings of fowl which may be followed in every respect. 


8.—Roast Fowl with Gravy and Bread-sauce. 
Spread a sheet of paper thickly with the lard (or the 


Ingredients. same quantity of butter)-and wrap 
2 oz. of fresh lard . . 
4s) 99 99, butter it round the fowl : hang it before 
1 onion (sliced) . 
4 slices of carrot a good clear fire, close for ten mi- 
3» 9, Celer . . ° 
1 teaspoonful of moist sugar nutes and then at a distance until 
% ofa ib. of ny beef (or 4% 
pint of stoc . . - 
: alts cooniul of flour of mus- done ; baste frequently ; ten mi 
tar 1 
t Saltspoonful of salt nutes before serving take off the 
I clove ; . 
134 pints of warm water paper and _ baste with two ounces 
1 dessertspoonful of flour of dissolved butter until done. 


1 teaspoonful of soy 
Chickens require half an hour, a moderate sized fowl 


fifty minutes, and a capon an hour and a quarter. Place 
the fowl on a hot dish, pull out the skewers, and serve 
with the gravy in the dish and the breadsauce (see rceipe) 
in a tureen. Make the gravy as follows :—Put one ounce 
of butter, the onion, carrot, celery, sugar and gravy 
beef into a small stewpan; simmer gently over the 
fire until nicely browned ; then add the mustard, salt, clove 
and watcr ; simmer (skimming often) very gently until re- 


POULTRY. 119g 


duced to half the quantity. Knead the remaining ounce of 
butter with the flour; stir into the gravy, and add the soy. 
Boil ten minutes, strain and serve. 

Note.—All poultry is immensely improved by being stuffed with as 
many mushrooms as you can put in, 2 oz. of butter, a saltspoonful of 


salt, and one grain of cayenne ; well basted ; put a round of toast under 
and serve on the toast. 


9.—Boiled Fowls. 


Truss the fowls for boiling; place them in the degchee 


Ingredients. and cover them with the milk ; 
x pair of fowls : . . 
3 quarts of milk boil up quickly, and then simmer 


till done. Chickens require six- 
teen minutes ; fine fowls twenty-five minutes, capons from 
forty to fifty minutes. 
Serve with white, parsley, green, or celery sauces (see re- 
cipes) according to taste. 


_ Note.—Reserve the milk in which the fowls were boiled in an earthen 
pan for soup, and serve for any of the white soups. See recipes. 


10.—Braised Fow! with Tomatoes. 


Truss a fine young fowl as for boiling ; spread a sheet of 


vow! Ingredients. paper thickly with the butter and 
1 fow . . 

3 oz. of butter wrap the fowl in it. Heat a 
A piece of fresh cut garlic . . 

% pint of strong veal gravy stewpan and rub it three times 
6 large ripe tomatoes . . 

I snalot ’ ° 
teaspoonful of salt across the bottom with garlic ; put 


1 saltspoonful of white pepper ; 
1 Sait of cayenne in the fowl, pour the gravy over 


Yéth part of a nutmeg, grated it: 1 ] 

% saltspoonful of mustard it; boil up quickly, and put the 
23 9 gin er t 1 1 1 

The strained juice of2 lemons Pan where it will only just simmer. 

+ wineglassful of marsala Slice the tomatoes; chop the 


shalot; season with the salt, pepper, cayenne, nutmeg, 


120 DAINTY DISHES FOR INDIAN TABLES. 


mustard and ginger; add the lemon-juice and marsala. 
Baste the fowl with the gravy frequently, and when it 
has simmered three-quarters of an hour put in the tomatoes. 
Stir and boil up; then continue the slow simmering and 
basting for another hour and a quarter. Take the paper 
off the breast ; lay the fowl on a hot dish; pour the sauce 
over, and serve immediately. 


11.—Chicken and Onions. 


Truss the chickens for boiling, fill the body with small 


Ingredients, onions which have previously _ 
A fine chicken . . . 
Some small onions been parboiled in milk and a 
A teaspoonful of salt . 
A little bacon teaspoonful of salt. To the milk 
8 large onions . . . 
A saltspoonful of pepper in. which they were boiled, add 
A quart of milk cA th ind f th t 
2 tablespoonsful of flour e remainder t u u 
2 oz. of fresh butter . ° © 4 art, P 
A grain of cayenne pepper in the head, giblets and feet of 


the chicken and bacon, and boil for one hour. Then put 
the chicken into the stock and simmer for three-quarters 
of an hour. Then take out the chicken, reduce the stock to 
one pint by boiling, strain it, mix two tablespoonsful of flour 
or arrowroot in three of cold milk and stir into the sauce, 
mixing one way, until it is perfectly smooth like cream ; add 
the butter and cayenne, and stir over the fire until it is well 
mixed, taking care it does not boil; then pour it over the 
chicken and serve. 


NVote.—Mushrooms can be used instead of onions and makea most 
palatable dish. 


12.—Two Chickens for eight persons. 


Cut up one of the fowls ; the leg and thigh into two 


POULTRY. I2t 


a towie ee pieces, the back into three pieces, 
x Spanish (or other) onions H ' 
x Spanish (or « ° and the breast into two pieces, 
1 saltspoonful of salt ane which, with the merry thought, 
: teaspoonful of garlicor French wil] be fourteen pieces. 

f butt hroo : 
nt il et ats Cut up the onion small, and 


Fah eo oanafal Cf errowroot put it into the saucepan with the 
ketchup ” ™™*T™ ~—s butter, cayenne and salt ; let it 
stew gently for about an hour, until it is in a complete 
pulp ; add the chicken, stew half an | hour, and just before 
serving add the vinegar. 
Cut up the other fowlin the same way as the first one. 
Pick and scald the head and necks of both fowls, and stew 
them in half a pint of water for an hour; strain the liquor 
and put it in a saucepan with the button mushrooms, pepper 
and salt; put in the pieces of fowl and simmer for half an 
hour ; then thicken with the arrowroot. Just before serving 
add the mushroom ketchup. 
Pigeons, grouse, partridges and turkey are all delicious, 
served in the same way. 


13.—Braised Fowl and White Sauce with Braised 
Beef and Chestnuts. 


Mix one tablespoonful of salad oil, with the strained 
‘owt Ingredients. juice of a lemon, one saltspoon- 
t tow 


1% tbs. of the upper side of the ful of salt, one saltspoonful of 
‘ round of beef ‘7 inch thick . . F 
rashers of bacon XY inch thic - 
without bone or "skin white pepper, one grain ol cay 


Some butter milk, garlic, shalots_ ~~ enne, one saltspoonful of flour of 
1 gill of cream ) 


I carrot 

1 head of celery mustard, three grates of nutmeg, 
15 chestnuts a piece of garlic, the size of a pea 
oe, “ofbutter salt, &e (bruised), and three tablespoons- 


tablespoonful of fi 
‘Towrot ful of “Cre-fydd sauce,” (see note. ) 


Q 


122 DAINTY DISHES FOR INDIAN TABLES, 


Rub this well into the -beef, and let it remain closely 
covered for 24 hours. Clean, and cut up small the heart 
of the celery, the carrot and two shalots. Put them into 
a saucepan with an ounce of butter. Lay in the beef, 
pour the sauce over it, and three-quarters of a pint of 
cold water. Place the fowl on the beef with two ounces 
of butter spread on the slices of bacon laid over that. Peel 
the chestnuts with a sharp knife, and lay them round the 
fowl. Boil up quickly, baste the fowl with the gravy, then 
simmer as gently as possible for two and half hours. Mixa 
tablespoonful of baked flour into half a pint of a new milk, 
boil ten minutes ; add the cream ; place the fowl on a hot 
dish with the bacon round it, and pour the white sauce over. 
Lay the beef on a hot dish, pour over the gravy and vegeta- 
bles ; add the strained juice of a lemon, and send both dishes 
to table immediately. 

Note.—If you have no Cre-fydd sauce, use instead a tablespoonful of 


port wine, a teaspoonful of soy, a teaspoonful of brandy, and a saltspoon- 
ful of chutney. 


14.—Chickens with Green Peas. 


Boil the chickens, cut them into pieces, and put them in 


Ingredients. a saucepan with the peas, butter, 

1 pint of green peas . 
Y% oz. of butter parsley and onions; put on the 
1 bunch of parsley . 
4 small onions fire for four minutes and then add 
1 dessertspoonfu! of flour . 
% tumbler of gravy the flour and gravy; simmer for 
1 teaspoonful of salt , . 

vs 5» Sugar twenty minutes, stir in the salt 


and sugar, and serve very hot. 


15.— Mayonnaise of Fowl. 


Boil a fine fowl as in recipe No. 9, and when it is cold cut 


POULTRY. 123 


it up into neat pieces. Wash two fine lettuces, or any salad 
in season, and four spring onions; leave them in water for 
two hours. Prepare the Mayonnaise sauce, (see recipe) and 
leave it to stand in a cool place or on ice for an hour. Wipe 
each salad-leaf, and break it into pieces ; cut up the onions 
quite small; put half the salad in the bowl oron the dish ; 

on that lay half the fowl ; then half the sauce; then the re- 
mainder of the fowl ; the rest of the salad over that ; pour the 
sauce over all, sprinkle with the chopped onions, and gar- 
nish with slices of alternate beetroot and cucumber if you 


have any. 


16.—Fricasseed Fowl, white. 


Cut up the fowl into joints, and put it into cold water for 


Ingredients. an hour to blanch; wipe it dry and 

A young fowl . . 

Some baked flour dredge each piece with flour ; put 

int of milk oe . . 

4 Palot it into the stewpan with the milk 
x sprig of thyme 

2 leaves of tarragon and the shalot, thyme, tarragon, 
1 inch of thin lemon-peel . . . 
% 4, 5, mace lemon-peel and clove tied in a bit 
1 Clove . 

1 teaspoonful of salt of muslin ; add the salt and sugar ; 

, loaf sugar . . . 
The strained juice of a lemon boil up quickly ; then simmer very 


gently for three quarters of an hour ; take out the bag, place 
the fowl on a hot dish, and pour it over the Jemon-juice. 

Prepare white sauce (see recipe) or melted butter for 
vegetables (see recipe) with the liquor in which the fowl was 
boiled ; pour it over the fowl, and serve at once. 


17.—Fow! Pie. 


Prepare the fowl in all respects as above; when itis 


Ingredients. ready to serve make a paste as 


6 mealy potatoes - 
x saltspoonful of salt follows :—Mash the potatoes ; fla-: 


124 DAINTY DISHES FOR INDIAN TABLES. 


Ingredients of Fowl Pie. vour with the salt ; add the but- 
oz. of butter 
xz gill of cream (or milk) ter, cream, and egg, and beat 
1 well beaten egg . . . 
Some slices of bacon or ham with a wooden spoon till quite 


light ; line a pie dish with about one-third of the potato; 
lay in a layer of bacon, then the fowl; pour over the - 
sauce ; cover with another layer of bacon; lay over the 
remainder of the potato; smooth it over with a knife 
and bake in a moderately heated oven for three quarters 
of an hour. 

Note.—Two hard-boiled eggs cut in halves are an improvement. This 


dish can also be prepared with cold fowl, and if there be no white 
sauce use instead some veal gravy, or stock. 


18.—Fowl Fricasseed in Oil. 


Cut up the fowl into joints and put it into cold water for 


Ingredients. two hours; wipe it quite dry ; put 

zr young fowl os 

r pint of good salad oil the salad oil into a stewpan, and 
x teaspoonful of oil , 

2 mushrooms when warm put in the fowl with 
3 truffles (if you have them) 

x shalot the mushrooms, truffles, shalot, 
1 sprig of thyme 

14 sprigs of parsley thyme, parsley, and bay leaf. 
2 button mushrooms Boil up quickly; then simmer 
Te tesoonful of salt until the fowl is done a pale 
June jlice of : men Ue yellow color (about three quarters 
¥ gill of marsala 


of an hour.) Make the following 
sauce :—Clean the mushrooms, chop the shalots and truffle ; 
put them into a small saucepan with enough of the oil in 
which the fowl was cooked to moisten them; stir over a 
quick fire for ten minutes. Add the salt, sugar, lemon-juice, 
and marsala. Drain the fowl ona cloth to take off the fat, 
put it on a hot dish; pour the sauce over, and serve 
at once, 


POULTRY. 125 
19.—Timbale of Macaroni with Fowl. 


Prepare some veal forcemeat (see recipe—about quarter 


Ingredients. the quantity given will do). Boil 

1 boiled fowl . oy ee . 

1 Ib. of macaroni the macaroni until it is quite 
Some veal forcemeat my 
Onion tender, but not so soft that it 

epper . : 

alt will break or stick together. Cut 
A little fat bacon 


Some butter it all up into pieces one-third of 
an inch long. Butter a pudding basin or a round mould 
and stick in the little pieces of macaroni upright, so that 
when turned out the shape will look like a honey-comb. 
They must touch each other, and the sides of the basins or 
mould must be covered up to the very top. Dip a metal 
spoon in hot water, and scoop out some of the veal force- 
meat, and lay a thin layer of it over the macaroni as you 
proceed. When the mould is thus lined fill it with the 
fowl (boiled as in recipe No. 9) finely minced and seasoned 
with a little choped onion, salt, pepper, and bacon. Pour 
in two tablespoonsful of white. sauce, prepared from the 
bones of the fowl and the milk in which it was boiled (see 
recipe). Cover the fowl in with a layer of forcemeat about half 
an inch thick; cover the bowl over with a round piece of 
buttered paper, lay a plate on that, and steam for an hour. 
Turn out carefully, and servé with the remainder of the 
sauce poured round it. | 


Note.—A few button mushrooms are a great improvement to the 
sauce, and this dish may be made with any kind of white meat. 


20.—Fowl with Savoury Macaroni. 
(Second dressing. ) 


Put the macaroni into the water and leave it to soak 


126 DAINTY DISHES FOR INDIAN TABLES, 


Ingredients of Fowl with f 
or tw 

Savoury Macaroni. o hours. Cut up the cold 
6 oz. of Genoa macaroni fowl and put the bones and trim- 
3 pints of cold water . : . 
The remains of a cold fowl mings into a saucepan with the 
1 onion (sliced) . 
1 carrot onion, carrot, parsley, clove, salt, 
3 sprigs of parsley . ? 
r clove mustard, cheese and garlic. Pour 


1 teaspoonful of salt . 
» x flour of mus- In the water or stock ; boil for two 


tar 

dessertspoonful of in ; i 
x dessertspoonf ° grated hours; strain; lay the macaroni 

iece of garlic, the si i i 
r piece of garlic, the size ofa carefully ina stewpan with three 
x quart of cold water or stock ounces of butter; pour over the 


33 oz. of butter 
a 


of a lb. of cold fowl . . 
1 saltspoonful of salt gravy, and simmer till tender, 


Some baked ace" Pepper = about 14% hour. Season the fowl 

1 gill of olive oil or % Ib. of with the salt and pepper ; dredge 
¥ wineglassful of marsala : : . 

it lightly with flour, and fry toa 

nice yellow color in the oil or butter. Lay the macaroni 

round the dish in the form of a wall; add the marsala to 

the gravy ; place the fowl in the centre ; pour over the gravy, 


and serve at once. 


21.—Quenelles of Fowl. 

Prepare some chicken forcemeat with the flesh of a fowl 
as described in quenelle forcemeats of veal (see recipe), using 
half the quantities given, and finish by incorporating with it 
two tablespoonsful of thick white sauce (see recipe). Form 
this forcemeat into egg-shape nelles with two tablespoons, 
and poach them for ten minutes in boiling broth or water ; 
serve them dished up in a circle, with some rich Bechamel 
sauce (s¢e recipe) poured over and round them, and garnish 


with green peas, truffles, or mushrooms. 


22.—Chickens a la Tartare. 
Draw, singe, trim, and split the chickens into halves ; sea- 
son with pepper and salt, and fry them with butter until 


POULTRY. 127 


done on both sides; then press them between two dishes 
until half cold ; dip them in egg and then in bread-crumbs ; 
sprinkle with a little clarified butter and crumb them again. 
Twenty minutes before they are wanted broil the two halves 
over a clear fire until they are a light golden brown ; place 
them on a dish containing some Tartar sauce (see recipe) ; 
garnish with pickles, and serve. 


Note.—All kinds of poultry and game are delicious, served in this 
way. 


23.—Devilled Fowl. 


Take the legs of either boiled or roasted fowls ; score the 


Ingredients. flesh deeply and rub over the 
oz. of butter . . 
: teaspoonful of chutney following mixture; melt the butter 
x pinch of cayenne . 
ry)» Pepper and mix in the chutney, cayenne, 
I 5) 99 Salt 


pepper, and salt; put the legs on 
a gridiron over a slow fire, and take care they do not burn ; 
cook slowly for a quarter of an hour, turning them frequent- 
ly ; take them off and pour a little more dissolved butter 
over each ; shake a little pepper over, and serve at once. 


24.—Aspic of Fillets of Chicken or Game. 
Melt the jelly and pour some into the mould, (about 


Ingredients half aninch thick); leave it to 
Aspic jelly (see recipe) . . 
Cold fillets of 2 or 3 chickens settle ; when it ts firm layin some 
4 hard-boiled eggs . . 
Some truffles, gherkins and of the hard-boiled eggs, (whites 


beetroot 
Mayonnaise sauce (see recipe) | and yolks) gherkins and beetroot 


and arrange them according to taste ; pour in some more jelly 
and leave it to settle; then put in the fillets neatly cut into 
shapes ; add some jelly, enough to set but not to cover the 
chickens, leave it to settle; pour round’ and over some 


128 DAINTY DISHES FOR INDIAN TABLES, 


Mayonnaise sauce, and cover this well over with cold aspic, 
otherwise it would if liquid mix with the sauce and get 
muddy. Then fill the ‘mould with liquid aspic as full as it 
will hold, and put it on-ice or in a very cold place to settle. 
When ready to serve dip a cloth in hot water ; wrap it round 
the outside of the mould, and turn the jelly out on a dish. 


25.—Curried Fowl. 
(Second Dressing. ) 


Cut up the cold fowl ; stew the bones in a pint of water 


Ingredients. for 34 of an hour, slice the onion; 


About ¥ fb. of cold fowl . . 
1 large onion mix the butter with the curry 


3 oz. of butter . - os 
1 tablespoonful of curry pow- e powder, and fry the onion in tt 


1% saltspoonsful of salt _ until it is of a pale brown color 
I desertspoonful of baked flour ‘ . pate b own co 
x sherry glass of thick cream | and quite tender ; put in the fowl; 
The strained juce of a lemon 
~~ 6 02. of rice ; strain the gravy (about a teacup), 
from the bones; add it to the fowl and put in the baked 
flour ; simmer, stirring frequently for twenty minutes ; stir 


in the cream and lemon-juice, and serve at once with a wall 


of rice round. 

Wash the rice; put it into a quart of cold water and boil 
for half an hour; drain on a sieve before the fire, and stir 
with a wooden fork to separate the grains, 


26.—Fowl Curry. 


( Another way. ) 
Take the heart of a cabbage, pull away all the outside 
os Ingredients. leaves until it is about the size of 
2 apples _an egg ; chop it fine, and add the 


The juice of 1 lemon . wo 
x saltspoonful of black pepper apples sliced fine, the lemon- juice, 
1 large tablespoonful of Mr. Ar- 

nott's curry powder, (seerecipe) Pepper and CuITy powder ; mix 


POULTRY. 129 


nts of Fowl Curry. well ; put the onions into a stew- 
f garlic pan with the butter, and fry a 

tter . . 
consful of flour light brown color ; then add to it 
strong gravy 


the cabbage, apples, lemon-juice 
ry powder ; add the chopped garlic, flour and gravy, 
v well together. 

put in a cold roast fowl nicely cut up; simmer for 
minutes, and serve at once with plain boiled rice 
‘eding recipe.) 

or mutton chops, kidney, lobster, the remains of a 
sad, all are excellent, served as above. 


»7,—Minced Fowl with Savoury Rice. 
(Second dressing.) 


ll the white meat off the fowl; put the bones, skin 


Ingredients, and rough pieces into a stewpan 
ains of a fowl . . 
of water with one quart of water, onion, 


carrot, garlic, sugar, salt and pep- 
per ; boil for two hours ; wash the 
rice, put it into a quart of cold 


f garlic, the size of a 
ionful of loaf sugar 


3) Salt 
ionful of pepper 


pest rice water and boil for a quarter of an 
of water. ' 

ninced fow . ; et! y. 
ionsful of salt hour > Strain dry > mince the fowl ; 


'spoonfil “of kepsead - S€aSon it with the salt, white pep- 
oonfal of baked four pen pars’ey> flour, mushroom and 
2 of 14 lemon emon-juice ; put the mince into 
uner a stewpan with enough gravy to 
it well, and simmer very gently, stirring frequently for 
1 minutes. Put the rice into a stewpan with the butter) 
over the fire for five minutes ; add the remainder of the 
nd simmer, stirring constantly for ten minutes; lay the 


nd the dish and the mince in the centre; serve very hot. 


ANS 


130 DAINTY DISHES FOR INDIAN TABLES. 


28.—Croquets of Fowl. 
( Second dressing.) 


Rub the butter into the flour ; beat the yolks of the eggs 
Ingredients. 


with the water, and stir into the 
2 oz. of butter 


6 oz. of dried flour flour until it is a ‘stiff paste ; 
The yolks of 2 fresh eggs . . . 
4 tablespoonsful of cold water knead till quite smooth ; roll it 
¥% lb. of cold fowl . . ° 

1 piece of garlic out twice; then let it stand in a 
\% pint of water 


2 o7. of ham or tongue cool place (or on ice) for six hours; 
¥ of a nutmeg 


¥4 saltspoonful of white pepper cut up the cold fowl and free it 
The grated rind of % lemon 


% saltspoonful of flour ofmustard from all skin ; put the bones and 


r Ib. of clarified dripping trimmings into a saucepan with 
Some parsley 


the half pint of cold water, the 
garlic (about the size of a pea), and stew it for gravy. Pound 
the fowl to a paste, add the ham or tongue pounded, the nut- 
meg, pepper, lemon, mustard and salt; add enough of the 
gravy to moisten it. Continue to pound until the ingredients 
are well mixed ; roll out the paste 1 of an inch thick; divide 
it Into eight equal pieces about three inches square ; brush 
over the surface with cold water ; put % part of the pounded 
meat into each piece in the form of a sausage ; fold the paste 
over ; press the edges to make them adhere ; then fry in the 
boiling lard till of a pale yellow colour; drain on a sieve 


before the fire, and serve with or without fried parsley in the 
centre. 


29.—Chicken Legs en Papillotes. 


(Second dressing.) 


Remove the bones from some cold legs of chicken or fowL 
Ingredients. Dissolve the butter and season it 


1 oz. of butter 


Some chopped parsley with a little chopped parsley, pep- 


Some boiled bacon . . 
Pe pper and salt per, and salt ; dip in the pieces of 


POULTRY. 131 


chicken; wrap them in some thin slices of boiled bacon ; then 
fold in some slices of buttered paper ; double over the edges 
neatly ; lay them on a gridiron over a slow fire for ten minutes, 
turning them twice, and taking care they do not burn. 


Pulled Fowl. 
( Second dressing. ) 
(See Pulled Turkey.) 
30.—Roast Goose with stuffing and Apple or 
Gooseberry Sauce. 


Boil the onions in plenty of water for a quarter of an hour ; 


Ingredients. drain and chop them small ; mix 
4 onions . 
2 dessertspoonsful of fine them with the bread-crumbs, sage, 
bread-crumbs 
36 saltspoonful of powdered sage Salt, sugar, mustard, brandy and 
I ’ » salt ° . 
3 3 . loaf sugar dissolved butter ; mix well and put - 
> ur of mus- tk 
” tard this into the body of the goose ; 


x teaspoonful of brandy . . . 
x oz. of dissolved butter cover its breast with a slice of 
ingredients of Gravy 


« tablespoonful of flour thick fat bacon, ora sheet of paper 


3% of a pint of stock (No. 1) 1 . 
* Teaspoonful of soy spread with one ounce of butter ; 
3 grain of cayenne roast before a brisk fire for one 


% saltspoonful of salt 
The strained juice of 44 lemon = and a half hours, basting constant- 


ly ; ten minutes before serving take off the bacon (or paper) ; 
dredge slightly with flour, and baste until done; serve with 
the following gravy : 

Mix the flour with the stock; add the soy, cayenne and 
salt ; boil fast for twenty minutes; add the gravy dripped 
from the goose and the strained lemon-juice. Serve in a 
tureen. Make some apple sauce (see recipe), and serve in 
atureen. If you have no apples, the following is a good 
substitute : 


132 DAINTY DISHES FOR INDIAN TABLES. 


Gooseberry Sauce. 


Boil the gooseberries and water (or syrup) until they 
Ingredients. are quite soft ; then rub them 


Y% pints of bottled seber- j 1 
1% pints of bottled gooseber through a sieve, and serve ina 


¥% gill of water (or syrup) tureen. 


Note.—Roast gosling may be served in the same way, (it will take 
fifty minutes) and is a far more delicate dish. 


31.—Roast Goose with Tomatoes and Chestnuts. 
Prepare the goose in every way as above; add _ thirty 
cleaned and roasted chestnuts to the stuffing and fill the in- 
side of the goose with it ; continue as in previous recipes, and 


when dished up garnish with a border of stuffed tomatoes. 
(See recipe. ) 


32.—Roast Ducks and Ducklings stuffed. 


Make a stuffing as in the recipe for roast goose; the 


Ingredients. quantity given will be sufficient 
2 07. of bread-crumbs 


3 shalots for two ducks, or the following 

2 sprigs of parsley . 

1 yy ye thyme recelpt may be preferred : —Put 

2 sage leaves 

t clove - 1 >. 

fete conful of white pepper the bread-crumbs into a sauce 

I ” »> salt 7 . 

es ee sugar pan with the shalots, parsley, 

1 inch of lemon-peel , . > 

Vf of a nutineg grated thyme, sage-leaves, clove, pepper, 

YY pint of water 

# pint of water ; salt, loaf sugar, lemon-peel, nut- 
salts ful of choppe ars- . . 

tO Smoppes P meg and water; boil and stir 


for twenty minutes until the water is all absorbed ; then add 
the butter, and stir it through a sieve; when cold add the 
parsley, and with this mixture stuff the ducks; roast before 
a quick fire, basting constantly till done. Ducklings require 
thirty-five minutes, and ducks fifty minutes. ‘They must be 


POULTRY. 133 


sent to table hot and with gravy as directed for goose in 


the precedin g recipe. 


33.—Braised Duck, with Turnips. 


Peel the turnips; sift the sugar over them; dissolve six 


Ingredients. ounces of the butter and fry the 
to small turnips . . 
1 desertspoonful of sugar turnips to a light brown color 
8 oz. of butter . 
1 onion chopped In a stewpan ; add the two re- 
2 dessertspoonsful of flour — 
1 teaspoonful of soy maining ounces of butter and 


1 saltspoonful of salt 


» Peppe the chopped onion ; i 
LA of a pint of any good stock PP > putina fine 
1 wineglassful of marsala duck, breast downwards, and let 


The strained juice of a lemon ; ; 
It remain to brown twenty mi- 


nutes. Take out the duck; stir the flour into the butter; 
add the soy, salt, pepper and stock ; boil fast and skim off 
the fat; add the marsala and lemon-juice ; put in the duck, 
breast uppermost, and simmer gently for twenty minutes 
more. Place the duck on a hot dish, the turnips round 
it and the gravy poured over. Serve instantly. 


34-—Braised Duck, with Green Peas. 


Chop the onion, sage and parsley, quite small; season 


Ingredients. with salt, pepper, and nutmeg ; 
4 spring omons knead these with one ounce of 
i See Pa of alt _ butter, and put into the body of 
Bre tenth of a nutmeg grated the duck; spread three ounces 
oe Seetnce of butter over the bread; lay 


f a pint of stock 
% of a pint of stoc on the bottom of a degchee four 


jJarge leaves of fresh cut lettuce: place the dish on them, 
cover closely, and let it simmer till of a pale brown color 
(about half an hour); then add one quarter of the stock 


134 DAINTY DISHES FOR INDIAN TABLES. 


(or plain veal gravy). Continue to simmer for twenty min- 
utes ; then take out the duck, and serve very hot. 


35-—Stewed Giblets. 


The giblets must be well cleaned and soaked in warm 


Ingredients, water for an hour. Wipe them 
114 saltspoonsful of white pepper . . 
2 yy Saalt dry and cut them into neat pieces 
I grain of cayenne . . 
1 grate of nutmeg two inches long; season with the 
y chopped shalots - a it 
1% tablespoonsful of flour epper, sa a 
‘me er PP , ; , cayenne, nutmeg, 
. of butter Ss 
%, tbo ooo 4 stork | alots and flour. Rub a small 
1 wineglassful of white wine : 
eat of tachvouea degchee twice across the bottom 
ketchup 1 1 : ‘ 
+ desatepponful of Harvey with garlic, put in the giblets 
sauce with butter, and fry over a gentle 


fire till slightly browned ; then add the stock, wine, ketchup 
and sauce; boil up slowly, skim, then simmer gently for 
two and a half hours, skimming occasionally. Serve very hot. 


Note.—Truffles (sliced), button mushrooms, or button onions are a 


great improvement. 


36.—Roast Pigeons. 


Knead together the butter, bread-crumbs, cayenne, salt, 


Ingredients. pepper, parsley, nutmeg and sha- 


2 oz. of butter ; . 
2 dessertspoonsful of fine dried lot. Have two young pigeons, 


bread-crumbs 


1 grain of cayenne and put half the the stuffing into 
¥Y saltspoonful of salt ; . 
4 rs 1» Pepper each ; lay a thick slice of fat ba- 
I ” », chopped pars- 

ley con over the breast of each, and 


1 grate of nutmeg 
I small shalot, finely chopped roast before a quick fire for 


fifteen minutes, basting constantly with butter; ten minutes 
before they are done take off the bacon and continue to 
baste till of a nice brown color. Serve with some gravy, 
or on toast. 


POULTRY. 135 


37.—Stewed Pigeons. 


See recipe for stewed Patridges with bacon and cabbage. 


38.—Broiled Pigeons. 
The pigeons must be trussed flat. Knead the butter, 


Ingredients flour, chives, parsley, salt and pep- 
1 oz. of butter . 
1 dessertspoonful of flour per together ; stir over the fire for 


1 teaspoonful of chopped chives 


parsley five minutes; take it off fora mi- 
saltspoonful ‘of salt 


- 1» Pepper nute ; dip in the pigeons, and con- 
Ingredients of S. , 
rgredients of Sauce. tinue to doso until all the mixture 

Some garlic 

x oz. of butter adheres to them and they are well 
1 dessertspoonful of flour 

% sarshoonti of Pepper covered with it. Let them stand 
ae egontl of mushroom = for an hour, then broil over a 
rtablespoonful of marsala bright fire for eighteen minutes. 


kled cherkins, finely chop- i 
? Piciied cherkins, finely chop- Serve with the following sauce 


poured round them :—Rub the bottom of a small saucepan 
twice across the bottom with garlic; put in the butter, flour 
and pepper; stir till well mixed ; then add the stock, ket- 
chup, marsala, lemon and gherkins ; boil fast for eight minu- 
tes, then serve as directed. 


39.—Boiled Pigeons, with Celery or Soubise Sauce. 
(See recipe for Partridges.) 


40.—Pigeons a la Tartare. 
(See Chickens &4 la Tartare.) 
41.—Pigeon Pie. 
Cut the pigeons into quarters, and the rump steak, 


Ingredients. . 
‘s which should be about half an 
2 young pigeons 


1 fhosh coos, steak inch thick, into six pieces ; boil 
272 saltspoonsful of salt the eges for ten minutes: season 
»» pepper ) 


t sil of pravy the whole with the salt and pep- 


136 DAINTY DISHES FOR INDIAN TABLES. 


Ingredients of Paste. ' per. Lay the steak at the bottom 
% gill of cold water of a ten inch pie dish, the pigeons 
iy Tee good butter upon it, the yolks of the eggs 


at equal distances; add the gravy. Rub the edge of the 
dish with lard or butter ; line it with strips of paste one-sixth 
of an inch thick; moisten it with cold water ; cover it with 
paste ; press round to make it adhere ; trim witha sharpknife ; 
notch at inch distances ; make a hole in the centre; orna- 
ment to taste, and bake in a moderate oven for two hours 
and a quarter. The paste is made as follows :—Moisten the 
flour with the water and lemon-juice ; knead flat ; put the 
butter in the centre ; fold over; roll out four times; dredge 
flour over each time. Let it stand in a cool place two or 
three hours ; then use as directed. 


GAME. 


——— eee 


1.—Guinea-fowl, larded and roasted. 


Lard a young guinea-fowl thickly and deeply with fat 
bacon; spread a sheet of white paper with three oz. of 
butter ; wrap the guinea-fowl in it and roast before a quick 
fire for 35 minutes, basting frequently; ten minutes before 
serving remove the paper and baste with dissolved butter 
till of a light brown color, and serve with the following 
gravy in the dish (not poured over the bird), and bread-sauce 
(see recipe) in a tureen. 


Gravy. 
Slice the onion and fry it in the butter until it is of a nice 
Ingredients of Gravy. brown color ; add while frying the 
T onion 
1 oz. of butter flour, salt, pe - 
btxpont o fou , , pepper, sugar and mus 
salt ful of salt ‘stir 1 
i spoonful of salt tard ; stir in the stock, ketchup 
39 99 sugar 1 1 
ey mustard and port, boil fast for 25 minu- 
of a pint of stoc 7 1 
4 tablespoonful of mushroom ‘5 and then strain into a 
etchup 
2 tablespoonsful of port wine tureen. 


Note.—The recipes for pheasants may be followed for guinea-fowl. 


2.—Roast Pheasant. 


The hen is the nicer bird. Lay a thick slice of fat ba- 
con over the breast ; stuff the bird with as many mushrooms 
as it will hold, two oz. of butter, one saltspoonful of salt, 
and a grain of cayenne. Baste it constantly, and roast 
for half an hour. Ten minutes before serving take off the 

S 


138 DAINTY DISHES FOR INDIAN TABLES. 


bacon that the bird may be nicely browned. Serve with 
gravy and bread-sauce as in the previous recipe. 


Note.—Pheasant is also delicious served with sage and onion stuffing 
(see recipe for Goose.) 


3.—Boiled Pheasant with Celery Sauce. 

Truss the pheasant like a fowl for boiling. Put it into a 
small degchee and cover it with new milk (about three pints) ; 
boil up quickly, then simmer as gently as possible until done ; 
a small bird will take thirty minutes, a large one fifty mi- 
nutes, and an old one an hour, from the time of boiling up. 
Serve hot with a little celery sauce (see recipe) poured over 
it, and the rest in a tureen. 


Vote. —The same recipe may be followed substituting Sosdbise Sance 
(see recipe) for celery. 


4.—Braised Pheasant with Beef and Chestnuts 
(See recipe for Braised Fowl! with beef and chestnuts.) 


5.—Pheasant with Truffles. 
Wash, peel and slice the truffles ; put them into the body 


Ingredients. of a nicely trussed pheasant : 
y dove fe pound the peel and parings of the 
3 3 sprigs of parsley truffles with the garlic, and knead 
t bay Teal ofsah it with the lard. Put the phea- 
if Peppercorns el Sant into an oval deep dish or pan; 
t clove of carrot cover it with the lard; add the 
t wineglassful of rum parsley, thyme, bay leaf, salt, pep- 
teu oni of haked four Percorns, nutmeg, clove, carrot, 


FF saltspoonfil of i ear and rum : cover it over closely and 


put it into a moderate oven for 34 of an hour ; then leave it 


“7 


- ee ee 


GAME. 139 


for two or three days to imbibe the flavour of the truffles. 
When required take it out of the fat; envelope it in paper 
thickly spread with butter, and bake in a moderate oven for 
34 of an hour. Strain the gravy, add the stock, flour, salt 
and sugar; boil ten minutes ; take the paper off the phea- 
sant; add the dripped gravy and butter to the sauce. Place 
the pleasant on a hot dish, remove the skewers, pour over 
the gravy, and serve at once. 


6.—Salmi of Pheasant. 


Roast a pheasant ; when it is nearly cold divide it into 


Ingredients of Sauce. pleces and take off the skin; put 
3 dessertspoonsful of salad oil . 
¥% glass of claret the oil, claret, salt, pepper, 
A pinch of salt, pepper, and ke . 
cayenne cayenne and lemon-juice into a 


The strained juice of a lemon . ; 
small saucepan ; lay in the pieces 


of pheasant, toss them over the fire until the whole is very 
hot, and serve at once. 


Note.—A dozen mushrooms are a great improvement. 


7.—Cold Pheasant with Balbirnie Sauce. 


Ingredients. Chop the shalot very small 
1 small shalot . . . 
: saltspoonful of mustard and mix with it all the other 
1 tablespoonful of oil . . . 
1 pinch of salt and pepper ingredients. When well incor- 
x tablespoonful of vinegar . 
2 tablespoonsful of ketchup porated, serve with cold pheasant 


on a separate dish. 
8.—Pulled Pheasant. 
(See Pulled Turkey.) 


9.—Roast Partridges. 


Hang the birds before a brisk fire; baste constantly with 
plenty of butter (1{ of ath. for a brace) and roast for about 


Igo DAINTY DISHES FOR INDIAN TABLES. 


eighteen minutes. Serve garnished with fried breadcrur 
and with bread sauce (see recipe) and the following gravy 


tureens :— 


Ingredients of Gravy. 


1 pint of stock 
1 teaspoonful of Soy 
1 tablespoonful of Harvey 
sauce 
1 tablespoonful of flour 
¥% saltspoonful of salt _ 
» », flour of mus- 
tard 
1 grain of cayenne 
1 tablespoonful of port wine 


Put the stock into a sauce; 
with the Soy, Harvey sauce, fic 
salt, mustard and cayenne; | 
quickly (uncovered) till redu 
to about 4 (twenty minutes); : 
the port wine, strain and serve. 


10.—Braised Partridges. 


Truss the partridges as a fowl for boiling. Slice 


Ingredients. 


1 small carrot 


1 onion 
r small head of celery 
4 sprigs of parsley (chopped) 
1 oz. of butter 
Some fat bacon ‘ 
49 pint stock 
A Found of bread thickly spread 
with butter 
1 Wineglassful of marsala 


carrot, onion and celery and | 
them with the parsley into 
stewpan ; add the butter; lay 
the partridge (breast uppermo 
and cover with some slices of | 
bacon; add the stock and si 


mer very slowly for two hours. Put the round of butter 
bread into the oven to brown ; add more butter if requir 
Lay the partridges on the bread; rub the gravy and ve 
tables through a fine sieve; add the marsala, boil up, pc 
over the birds, and serve immediately. 


11.—Braised Partridges with Cabbage. 


Trim the cabbage and wash it well: put it into c 


Lag rvdkients. 
1 small cabhage 
1 teaspoonful af salt 
3 oz. of butter 
1 teaspoonful of loaf sugar 
1 saltspoonful of pepper 


, , ws 
The strained juice of lemon 


water with the tablespoonful 
salt and let it remain three hou 
put it in @/d water and boil 

covered for twenty minutes ; dr 
and press out all the wa! 


GAME. 141 


Braise the partridges as directed in the preceding recipe, add- 
ing the cabbage, butter, sugar, pepper and salt; if the birds 
be old 214 hours will not be too long to simmer them. Add 
the strained lemon-juice over the cabbage, and serve it round 
the dish; the bacon in the centre and the birds on it. 


12,—Stewed Partridges with Celery or Soubise 
Sauce. 
(See recipe for Pheasants.) 


13.—Partridges with Tomato Sauce. 


Truss two partridges as for boiling ; fry them in a small 


Ingredients. stewpan with the oil, garlic and 
2 tablespoonsful of oil 
1 clove of garlic salt ; when they are browned add 
1 saltspoonful of salt . . 
Some cloves some Tomato Sauce (see recipe); 


put in ten olives (cleaned, soaked and stoned) simmer for 
ten minutes, and serve. 
Note,—Partridges are also delicious, served with sage and onion stuff- . 


ing (see recipe for Goose and use half the quantities given) and also 
potted (see recipe for SxzZe.) 


14.—Roast Quail. 

Truss the quail for roasting ; cut some thin layers of fat 
bacon just large enough to cover the quail; spread a ‘vine 
leaf over each, cut it to their size and tie it round. Run an 
iron skewer through the birds, and roast them before a brisk 
fire for ten minutes ; dish them up with water-cresses round 
them, and serve with gravy and toast under them, and bread- 
Saulce (see recipe) in a separate dish. 

15.—(Another way.) 

Cut a strip of crumb-bread, the size of the number of 

birds you have-to send to table; toast it a pale brown color; 


142 DAINTY DISHES FOR INDIAN TABLES, 


lay the birds on the toast, baste them with dissolved butter, 
and bake on a tin dish in a very hot oven for fourteen or 
eighteen minutes, basting constantly. Serve on the toast 
with or without the following gravy :— 
Knead the butter with the flour, cayenne and mustard. 
(ngredients of Gravy. Rub the bottom of a small sauce- 


2 oz. of butter 


1 dessertspoonful of flour pan twice across the bottom with 
¥% grain of cayenne 


i of a saltspoonful of flour of the garlic; put in the stock; stir 


mustard 


A piece of fresh cut garlic in the butter and boil fast for 
¥% pint of stock 
2 tablespoonsful of marsala quarter of an hour; add the 


The strained juice of 44 lemon 
marsala and lemon-juice, and 
serve at once in a tureen. 


16.—Snipe and Woodcock. 


Cover the birds with layers of bacon and tie them round 
with string; roast them before the fire for twenty minutes, 
basting constantly with butter, and place some toasted bread 
under the birds to receive the droppings from the trail. 
Dish them up on the toast with water-cresses round them 
and some plain butter sauce In a separate boat. 


17.—Snipe Pudding a l'Epicurien. 


Plunge, singe, and divide the snipe in halves ; remove the 


Ingredients, gizzard and reserve the trail for 
6 snipes . 
Cayenne, lemon-juice and salt use hereafter; season the birdS 
A Portu al onion . oe a 
1 oz. of butter with cayenne and lemon-juice, an 
1 tablespoonful of flour . . “11 
12 chopped mushrooms a pinch of salt ; set them aside ts 
4 sprigs of parsle . 
I piece of garlic, the sizeofapea wanted. Slice the P ortugal (or 
1 pinch of aromatic herbs . wo 
¥% pint of wine other) onion and fry it in the but- 
Some slices of truffle . . . 
Some suet paste ter, till of a light brown color ; 


add the flour, mushrooms, parsley, garlic and herbs ; moiste” 


GAME. 143 


with the wine ; stir the whole over the fire to boil for about ten 
minutes ; strain through a sieve; line a basin with a thin 
crust of suet paste, put in the birds, sauce and sliced 
truffles ; cover in with the paste ; steam for 114 hours; turn 
it Out with care, and serve (or serve in the basin.) 


18.—Potted Snipe. 
The birds used for this purpose must be perfectly fresh. 


Ingredients. After being plucked, cut off their 
6 or 8 snipes . . 
Some fat bacon wings and legs ; remove the giz- 
Some black pepper and salt . . ; 
Some clarified fresh butter zard with the point of a knife, 
Some flour and water paste 


leaving the trail undisturbed ; 
split the birds in half and place them ona dish. Take an 
earthenware oval pie pan; (such as Yorkshire pies or potted 
meats are made in) line the bottom and sides of this with 
very thin layers of fat bacon; arrange the snipe therein in 
neat rows, and season with the pepper and salt; when the 
pan is nearly full pour in enough clarified butter to cover 
over the birds. (The quantity will depend on the number 
of birds and the size of the dish.) Put the lid of the pan on, 
and cover in the edge with some flour and water paste to 
keep the steam in while baking. Bake in a moderate oven 
for two hours, and when gudfe cold remove the paste, take 
off the cover and use when required. 


19.—Salmi of Snipe. 
(Second dressing.) 


Divide the birds into joints and lay them aside ona plate. 
Ingredients. Break up the livers and trails on 

3 Cold roast snipes . . . 

he juice of 4 lemons the silver dish (on which you are 


Ome salt, white pepper and . . 
cayenne going to serve the birds) and 


144 DAINTY DISHFS FOR INDIAN TABLES. 


Ingredients of Salmi of Snipe. squeeze the lemon-juic 
2 spoonsful of French mustard . ; 
% glass of white wine them. Season the birds wi 
1 teaspoonful of olive oil 
pepper and cayenne; a 
them onthe dish; add the mustard and wine. 
dish over a spirit lamp and keep moving each piec 
so that the seasoning may penetrate and become well 
Do not allow. it actually to boil, but just as it cc 
it put out the lamp, sprinkle over a little olive oil, 


a moment, and serve. 


Note.—All sorts of game are delicious dressed in this way. 


20.—Wild Duck. 


Rub the liver over the breast till it is red ; roast | 
brisk fire from 16 to 25 minutes, basting libera 
butter ; send to table with a rich brown gravy. On tk 
close to the carver, should be a deep silver dish w 
water or a spirit burner under it ; ‘put into this on 
butter, two glasses of port wine (or claret) ; one of } 
sauce, the juice of a lemon, a sprinkle of salt, and 
of cayenne; the carver should put the pieces of bi 
this as he carves them ; add the gravy, stir it round, 
the guests help themselves. 


21.—Widgeons and Teal. 


Prepared as above, only ten to fifteen minutes 
enough time to roast them. 


22.—Salmi of Wild Fowl. 


Cut up the remains of wild duck, widgeon or t 


Ingredients. the trimmings and bon 
Some good gravy . 
3 shalots, chopped a small saucepan with 


Ingredients of Salmi of Wild 
Fowl. 


x tablespoonful of flour 
The strained juice of a lemon 
A pinch of cayenne, pepper and 


Salt 
A wineglassful of port wine or 
Madeira 


cayenne, pepper, salt and wine. 


and serve at once. 


GAME. 145 


gravy or broth to moisten it, and 
the chopped shalots. Simmer 
for half an hour; strain; thicken 
with the flour ; put in the pieces 
of duck and add the lemon-juice, 
Warm the birds slowly, 


Note.—Christopher North’s Own Sauce (see recipe) is a great improve- 
ment to this or any other kind of hash or stew. 


23.—Roast Hare. 


Fry the liver and kidney with the shalot in one oz. of 


Ingredients of Stuffing. 


The liver and kidneys 
1 shalot 
1 oz. of butter 
16 Ib. of beef suet 
3 oz. of bread-crumbs 
1 tablespoonful of chopped 
parsley 


1 oz. of lean ham (or bacon 


chopped) 


1 saltspoonful of mixed sweet 


y, herbs 4) 
part of a nutme te 
The grated rind oF Fe 

its j juice 
t saltspoonful of white pepper 
t ” ” salt 
1 », loaf sugar 
I ane of port or mar- 


t beaten eg: 

Some slices ee bacon 
Some baked flour 

% |b. of dissolved butter 


mon and 


butter, till firm ; then chop them 
small; chop the beef suet ; add 
to these the bread-crumbs, pars- 
ley and ham and mix well to- 
gether ; add the herbs, nutmeg, 
lemon-rind and juice, pepper, 
salt and sugar, wine and beaten 
eggs ; mix all these well together 
and put this stuffing into the 
body of the hare ; sew it up with 
a needle and thread ; lay slices of 
fat bacon on the back and fold 


the whole in a sheet of paper; hang it before a clear hot 
fire, and roast for 14% to 1% hours; baste constantly ; half 


an hour before serving remove the paper and bacon ; 


dredge 


Slightly with flour, and baste with the dissolved butter till 


done. 


Make some rich brown sauce (see recipe); stir into 


it two tablespoonsful of red currant jelly and a glass of port 
Wine, and serve at once a little on the dish with the hare 


and the rest on a tureen. 


T 


146 


DAINTY DISHES FOR INDIAN TABLES, 


LEVERETS are roasted in the same way, using 14 the quan- 
tities given for the stuffing, and roasting for 34 of an hour. 


24.—Braised Hare. 


Make a stuffing as for Roast Hare (see recipe) ; put it into 


Ingredients, 


4 shalots 
2 small carrots 


_ 6 mushrooms 


2 slices of bacon 
2 pint of stock 
1 gill of marsala 
4 oz. of butter 


2 dessertspoonsful of baked 


flour 


the body of the hare, and sew it 
up with a needle and _ thread. 
Peel and slice the shalots, carrots 
and mushrooms ; put them into a 
stewpan with the bacon ; lay the 
hare in, back uppermost; add 


the stock, marsala and butter ; simmer very gently for 2% 
hours ; baste frequently with the gravy; take out the hare; 
rub the gravy and vegetables through a fine sieve, mix the 
flour with it, put it back into the stewpan with the hare; 
simmer twenty minutes more, then serve with currant jelly. 


. \n Nome 
QVN CVO ANY HAWN & 


- 
Ne 


en 


25.—Braised Leveret. 


See preceding recipe; using half the quantities givens 
and 134 hours as the time for stewing. 


26.—Jugged Hare. 


Have a fine young hare cut into joints ; wash and wipe 


Ingredients. 


onion 

mushrooms 

carrot 

head of celery 
sprigs of parsley 
cloves 

inch of mace 

sprig of thyme 
thin slices of bacon 
oz. of butter 
saltspoonsful of salt 


pint of good stock 
tablespoonful of flour 
ofa pint of port wine 


” », pepper 
teaspoonful of moist sugar 


each piece, and dredge it ove! 
with dry flour. Peel, wash and 
slice the onions, mushrooms, cat 
rot, celery, and parsley; put 
them into a stewpan with the 
cloves, mace, thyme and bacon: 
lay the hare on the vegetables: 
divide the butter into three slices: 
and lay them on it. Stand the 


ths of Forcemeal Balls. 


r of the hare 

lean cooked ham (or 
m) 

veal suet 

tspoonful of chopped 


ey 
bread-crumbs 
vonsful of mixed sweet 


5. 

onful of pepper 

; », salt 

; », loaf sugar 


GAME, 147 


stewpan by the side of the fire, 
and let it simmer gently until the 
hare is firm and well flavoured 
with the ingredients ; shake fre- 
quently. Take out the hare, 
strain the gravy, and skim off all 
the butter; lay the hare again 


,, four of mustard 
ed rind and strained 

: of 44 lemon 

wonful of brandy 


eggs 
ked flour and butter 


in the stewpan (leaving out the 
liver) ; season with the salt, pep- 
per and sugar; putin the gravy ; 
> stock mixed with the flour and port wine; cover 
; shake the stewpan constantly and simmer very 
or an hour; then lay in the forcemeat balls which 
s follows :— Chop the liver, ham, suet and parsley 
as possible ; add the bread-crumbs, herbs, pepper, 
igar, mustard, lemon-rind and juice, brandy and 
eggs ; beat with a wooden spoon until well mixed ; 
ike it up into balls a little smaller than a walnut; 
them well with baked flour, and fry in the butter 
d off the gravy until they are slightly browned ; lay 
1 a stewpan with the hare and continue to simmer 
y minutes. Serve very hot, with plenty of currant 
a plate. 


27.—Boiled Rabbit. 


1 the rabbit well, soak it in milk and water (equal 


Ingredients. parts) for two hours. ‘Truss it 
with two wooden skewers and 
some string, and put it on the fire 
with enough of the milk and 


water in which it was soaked to 


of parsley 
rcorns 

onful of salt 
of thyme 
love of garlic 


148 DAINTY DISHES FOR INDIAN TABLES. 


cover it; add the carrots, onions, parsley, peppercorns, salt 
thyme and garlic; boil up and simmer gently for 35 ow 
45 minutes. Take out the skewers, and serve with som e 
fried bacon and any of the following sauces : 

Either rich white sauce, (see recipe) in which case mix 
with it the livers parboiled and pounded, and well seasoned 
with cayenne and lemon-juice; or else onion sauce, (see 
recipe) ‘or celery sauce, (see recipe) or white mushroom 
sauce (see recipe). 


28.—Rabbit a la Tartare. 
(See Fowl a la Tartare.) 


29.—Brown Fricassee of Rabbit. 


Cut the rabbit into joints, and put it into cold water with 


Ingredients. the garlic; let it remain one 

1 young rabbit . . 
I clove of garlic hour ; wipe it dry and dredge 
Some baked flour . . 
12 button onions each piece with flour. Peel the 
20 ys mushrooms . ; 
% Ib, of butter . onions and mushrooms and fry 
1 saltspoonful of peppe } 
t moo ae ar them in the butter until they are 
I ” x} . : 
F: te eet slightly browned, then drain- 

herbs + 3 t 
1 tablespoonful of Harvey's sauce Fry the rabbit in the same bu 
yh good streaky bacon ter till of a pale brown colou! 
4 e 

sal . oo. 
eet one lemon then drain. Mix into the butté 


one tablespoonful of the flour, the pepper, salt, sugar, par 
ley, herbs, sauce and stock ; boil fast for ten minutes: th 
stand it aside for the butter to rise; skim and strain. ( 
the bacon into pieces the size of an inch, put it into 
gravy with the rabbit, and simmer gently for 25 mim 
then add the mushrooms, onions, sherry and lemon-j' 
simmer for fifteen or twenty minutes. Serve very hot. 


GAME. 149 


30.—Rabbit fried in Batter. 


the rabbit into joints and put it in a basin with 


rredients. the onion, parsley, thyme, salt, 
parsley pepper, oil, and vinegar ; leave it 
ful of salt for three hours, turning the rabbit 
nful’ofoil occasionally in order that it may 


», white vinegar 


become thoroughly impregnated 
A quarter of an hour before dinner take the 
itof the sauce, dip each piece in batter (see recipe) 
) it into boiling butter or lard; fry a light brown 
teen minutes) and when the pieces are crisp, drain 
a sieve before the fire and dish up with fried parsley 
itre, and some Maitre d’ Hotel sauce, (see recipe) or 
uce (see recipe) in a sauce boat. 


sAUCE, 


31.—Rabbit Curry. 


nd slice the onions ; dredge them with the curry 
igredients. powder and dried flour, and fry 
them in the butter until they are. 
of a pale brown color. Put them 


:d onions 

onsful of any curry 
(see recipes) or Capt. 
curry paste 

voonful of dried flour 
od butter 


e of garlic 
k 


ed juice ofa lemon 
rcoanut milk (or good 


into a stewpan with the rabbit, 
cut into small pieces, the garlic, 
and enough stock to moisten ; 


od rice simmer very gently, stirring fre- 


or 1% hours; add the lemon-juice and cream, 
‘e at once with a separate dish of boiled rice. 
>rice, put it into three pints of cold ‘water, and 
ialf an hour; drain on a sieve before the fire or 
oven ; separate the grains by stirring with a wooden 


150 DAINTY DISHES FOR INDIAN TABLES. 


32.—_ Rabbit Pudding. 


Cut up the rabbit, and season it with the pepper, salt and 


ingredients. cayenne. Make a paste as fol- 
1 piled saltspoonful of pepper 
. .. » salt lows :—Chop the beef suet and 
1 grain of cayenne 


3 oz. of bacon (cut into strips) knead it into a stiff paste with the 
1% lb. of beef suet 


% » » flour flour, suet and water; grease a 
1 pinch of salt . ° 
14 gill of cold water basin, roll out the paste (keeping 


1 teaspoonful of stock (or water)‘ . . 
: a small piece for the top); line 


the basin ; lay inthe rabbit and bacon; add the stock; roll 
out the piece of paste for the top ; wet it and press it round 
so as to make both edges adhere; dip a cloth into boiling 
water, dredge it with flour, tie over the pudding, put it into 
plenty of boiling water, and boil 334 or 4 hours. Loosen the 
edge with a knife, turn out carefully, and serve at once. 


CURRIES. 


‘ole. —In all cases where ghee is given in the recipe butter or good 
7? oi/ may be substituted. The latter will be found far the most 
lesome ingredient in hot weather. 


1.—Fish Curry. 


‘ound the chillies in a mortar; mix the ginger, garlic, ma- 


Ingredients. thee bajee seeds, turmeric, corian- 
Is. fish : . 
7. ghee der seed, and 4 oz. of onions with 
z. curds eaae 
z onions the chillies and pound them well 


dried chillies h 6 h ‘ad fth 
. _) green chillies er; fry the remainder 
:aspoonful [green ginger toget » iy tne re er of the 

garlic onions in the ghee till they are 


. salt 


Mathee Bajee well browned. Express the ta- 
2ssertspoonful seeds 


, ginger marind juice and mix it with the 
7. tamarind 
2. turmeric 1 1 
Breer seed dhye, ghee, browned onions, cori- 


'w leaves of green coriander = ander Jeaves and chillies; fry the 
in the ghee with the onions; add all the other ingredicnts 
simmer until done—about 20 minutes. 


2.—Another Fish Curry. 


lean the fish and cut it up in pieces; prick it then with 


Ingredients. the point of a fork, and rub it 
is. of fish . . 
7. of gnee or oil with the flour; mix the salt and 
. of curds se ° . ° 
. of gram (chenna) flour turmeric in the oil; dip the pieces 
t. of ‘Thillee oil . 
92. of onions of fish in It, and leave them to 


', of tamarind 
soak for an hour; take them out 


152 DAINTY DISHES FOR INDIAN TABLES. 


nei of Fisk Curry, — and rub them again with the flour 
green ginger . ; 

| coriander seed (roasted) and the tyre; wash this off with 
% o2.-\ garlic 


aniseed the lemon-juice; grind _ the 
2 oats of cinnamon aniseed and zeera in water; rub 
10 grains of § cardamons it into the fish. Grind all the 
1 oz. of turmee spices ; sprinkle them over the 


The juice of a lemon 


fish ; putthe ghee on the fire in 
a saucepan and when it is hot throw in the pieces of fish; 
shake them gently ; grind the tamarind and pour it over 
the fish ; simmer it gently for few minutes ; cover the sauce- 
pan and cook over a slow fire till done, giving it an occa- 
sional shake to keep the fish from burning. 


3—Egeg Curry. 
Boil the eggs till they are quite hard ; take off the shells 


Ingredients. and separate the whites from the 
10 eggs ° ° ° on, 
10!4 oz. of ghee, butter, or oil yolk ; cut the whites into slices: 
1 tablespoonful of salt . . f 
10 grains of saffron grind up all the SpIces ; take hal 
¥% oz. of turmeric . ; 
2 teaspoonsful of cinnamon and mix them with 2 oz. of the 
2 y, CLOVES . . 
2 teaspoonsful of cardamons ghee, slice three of the onions and 
1 teaspoonful of black pepper . 
: lime fry them brown in the ghee; add 
ons 


the eggs (yolks and whites) and 
fry them together; mix the remainder of the onions and 
spices with a little water ; add the eggs, &c ; boil the whole 
for a few minutes ; add the lime-juice and serve. 


4.—Fowl Curry. 
Cut the fowl in pieces: sprinkle it over with half of the 
row ren Onions sliced, the green ginger, 
T 10W 
a Kabul gram salt and coriander seed, (all well 
I » 
” on coriander seed (roasted) ground.) Wash the gram and 


CURRIES. 153 


of Fowl Curry. boil it in a little water until it 


ves becomes tender; pour it over the 
ons e ° 

lack pepper fowl; drain the gravy into a sauce- 
m ginger 


pan; add all the remainder of 
except the cloves; put 14 the ghee into a saucepan 
cloves, add the gravy and fry for a few minutes ; 
wl into another stewpan with some ghee and fry 
minutes ; add the gravy and simmer gently till 


5.—Partridge Curry. 


mutton in slices and put it in a sauce-pan with half 


rredients. of the onions, half of the green gin- 
itton ger and coriander seeds, pounded, 
e or butter . . 

ms and half the salt ; simmer till the 
1c ° ° 

iander seeds meat is quite tender and separates 
iched almonds from the bones. Put 3 oz. of the 
f turmeric ghee with the cloves in a sauce- 
cinnamon . . . . 

coves om pan; strain in the gravy and give it 
B four a good stir on the fire till it 1s well 
water mixed. Cut the partridges down 


le length ways; wash them well; prick the pieces 
‘ith a fork; rub in the flour and then wash it off; 
o of the onions; rub them well over the partridges, 
wash the pieces again; fry them in the ghee with the 
r of the onions sliced and the juice of the rest of 
2x (bruised) ; grind the spices with a little salt ; mix 
er and boil with some of the gravy until it is tender 
y dried up; then fry and sprinkle over with the 
‘he lemon and the garlic ; add the rest of the gravy 
gently for 4% of an hour. Grind the almonds with 


VU 


154 DAINTY DISHES FOR INDIAN TABLES. 


the rice water ; add the cream; stir well and pour over the 
partridges, simmer for 20 minutes and serve. 


6.—Meat, Egg and Vegetable Curry. 


Mix all the ground spices except the turmeric with the 


Ingredients. 
2 ore of mutton 
eg 
% Is o butter 


ig Ib. of onions 
% oz. of green ginger 


20 grains of capsicum (ground) 


20 »,_ of turmeric 
¥Y Ib. of turnips 
¥ Ib. ,, carrots 


% |b. of Bengal beet or spinach 


% Oz. of green gram 

4 oz. of coriander seed 
1 oz. of salt 

40 grains of cinnamon 

40 3» », cardamom 


butter; cut the meat in pieces 
and fry it in the butter; add 
water enough to moisten it, and 
set it on the fire to boil; clean the 
vegetables and add them to the 
meat and butter. When tender 
take the saucepan off the fire and 
strain off the gravy ; take out the 


beetroot, mash it in the gravy, stir it round over the fire; 
add the meat and vegetables and simmer till done; boil 
the eggs hard, cut them in halves and when the curry is all 
but ready add the eggs and turmeric powder, simmer for 


5 minutes and serve. 


7.—Kid Curry. 


Slice half the onions, garlic and ginger ; put them in the 


lugredients. 


2 Ibs. of kid’s meat 
10% oz. of butter 
Ib. of curds 
Ib. of onions 
¥% oz. of green ginger 


yy Salt 
4 oz. of blanched almonds 
oz. of cream 

30 oz. of dhall 

\% oz. of turmeric 

¥% oz. of garlic 
40 grains of cardamoms 
4° 5; 5) Cinnamon 
49 5, 4, Cloves 
Some rice water 

The juice of 1 lime 


frying-pan with 4 oz. of butter 
and fry till brown; strain the 
butter into a sauce-pan and stand 
it near the fire where it will keep 
hot ; cut the meat in small slices 
and season it with half the cury 
stuff, onions and ginger; mix 
them together with some of the 
curds, rub it over the meat and 


fry it for 3 minutes in the butter add the dhall and the rest 


CURRIES. 155 


of the curds and boil till it is dried up; fry it well, add a 
little water and simmer till the meat is tender. Grind the 
almonds with the rice water, mix it with the cream, stir well 
and pour over the meat ; then add the onions fried with the 
rest of the curry stuff to it; pour the limejuice over it, 
simmer gently for 10 minutes, and serve. 


8.—Kid and Egg Curry. 


Wash the meat well and cut it into the shape of dice; 


Ingredients. pound the ginger, half the onions, 
2 Ibs. of kid’s meat 


7 eggs and garlic ; squeeze the juice into 
I 1b. of butter ; 
% 1 », onions a basin; add the salt; rub the 
yi 02. of garlic th thi frv th ‘nd 
oz. of salt . e remainder 
1 drachm of turmeric meat wit ; thls ; ; ry ; 
4 02, of green ginger of the onions sliced in the butter; 
cardamon . d . . 
° cardamom WV ° 
20 grains ee pepper give the meat a stir rount in it ; 
cloves add a little water and boil fully 


till the mixture is all dried up; then fry it well; take the 
whites of the eggs, put them in a basin with a little water, 
and warm over the fire, stirring with a spoon all the time ; 
add to the meat and simmer with a little water for a 
quarter of an hour; add the curry spices, ground, simmer 
for a few minutes, and serve. 


9.—Mutton, Egg and Vegetable Curry. 


Pound all the spices except the turmeric; mix them with 


Ingredients. the butter; cut the meat in 

s enes musson pieces, and fry it with the spices 
of 

@ ib of onions and butter; add a little water 


¥% oz. of green ginger . . 
20 grains of capsicum and put it onto boil; clean the 


156 DAINTY DISHES FOR INDIAN TABLES, 


Ingredients of Mutton, Egg and vegetables and moong, and add 


no anne them to the meat; when tender 
$6 pr OF camips take off the fire and strain off the 
& |b. of paluk (beet) Keaves of — pravy ; wash the moong in it and 
% of ct corander seed give the whole a fry; add the 

( cinnamon meat and vegetables and boil for 


40 grains of} cardamom 


a few minutes; boil the eggs hard, 
cut them in half; when the curry is done add the eggs and 


the turmeric, (ground) simmer for a few minutes, and serve. 


10.—Mutton, Eggs and Pistachio Nut Curry. 


Cut the meat in pieces; slice the onions, and put them 


Ingredients. 
2 Ibs. of mutton 


5 Cees 
¥% lb. of butter 


with the salt, green ginger, and 
ground coriander into the butter 


% Ib. of onions een inger and fry; when it ‘is done take 
% oz. each of corian er seed out y% Ib. of the meat ; lay it 
» oz. each ot{ lashed nuts ,, aside; add a little water to the 
o grains of cinenet® remainder ; boil till the meat is 
20 grains of Cov som tender; strain off the gravy; 
*The ice’ bh a lime give the meat a quick stir 


over the fire; stir in a little flour and water and the spices, 
except the turmeric, ground to a paste; boil gently. Take 
a quarter of the meat laid aside; stir the white of the eggs 
in a little water; add it to the meat; set it on the fire; 
when it is done add the remainder of the meat; stir well 
and when thoroughly done stir in the lime-juice, sprinkle 
with the powder of turmeric and serve. 


11.—Mutton and Mangoe Curry. 


Cut the meat in small pieces; heat a saucepan on the fire 


CURRIES. 157 


Ingredients of Mutton and ‘ 

Mangoe Curry. and put in half the ghee and the 
2 Ibs. of mutton 1 | . ve 
4 tb. of ghee or butter onions sliced ; fry until they are 
4 tbs. of unripe mangoes brown; add the meat and fry until 
¢ tb. of onsons } 
4% Oz. Of S 
Boy green ginger | the gravy is well mixed with the 

» cortander see . . 

% grains of black pepper ghee; add the salt; pound the 
7 cardamom coriander seeds and a hittle water; 
go grains of cinnamon oy ae . 
¥, tb. of sugar boil till the meat is nearly done. 
mgr of turmeric Strain the gravy into another 
Alittle rice milk sauce-pan; put some cloves in the 


emainder of the ghee; fry the meat in it again; clean and 
tone the raisins; add them to the meat. Take half the 
nangoes, clean and cut them into small slices and boil in 
vater till tender. Make a syrup with the sugar and lime- 
uice and pour it over the mangoes; let it stand for an hour, 
our off the syrup; boil the remainder of the mangoes, wash 
hem and add the syrup; pour this over the meat; boil for 
few minutes. Add the preserved mangoes, curry stuff 
ind the turmeric ground in the rice milk. Simmer for a 
ew minutes stirring well, and serve. 


12.—How to boil Rice for Curries. 


Spread it on a table or cloth, and pick out all the stones, 
travel and dirt; wash it in 2 or 3 different waters, rubbing 
1€ grains well between the hands; add a little lime-juice or 
lum powder to whiten it; drain off the rice and throw it into 
lenty of water; boil it gently and simmer till tender; throw 
into a cullender and let it drain for a few minutes; then put 
back into the sauce-pan uncovered, spread a cloth over 
€ top, stand it close to the fire till it has steamed quite 
y so that every grain Is separate; then serve an once. 


PELAUS. 


1.—Fish Pelau. 


Clean the fish well; cut it into slices and dip it in the 


Ingredients. salad-oil; leave it for half an hour; 
Ibs, fish . . . 
1% bs. of meat wipe it; rub it over with the 
. OF rice . ee 
x Ib, of ghee pounded gram flour and wash it in 
. of onions , . 
oz. green ginger water; prick the fish with a fork; 
4, 02. Of coriander seeds * . . . 
2 oz. of blanched almonds - bruise some of the onions, a little 
1 drachm of cinnamon . i . 
% »» cardamom of the ginger, salt and spices with 
a3 Lh . 
% _ ») __y black pepper the curds, and cover the fish with 
14 oz. pounded raw gram flour ; a 
2 oz. of sweet oll . this. Fry it in some of the ghee to 
yf oz. of garlic ; . 
3 Tb. of curds a nice brown color ; fry some of 
Some rice water the onions sliced in a little ghee, 


and give the fish a quick turn inthis ; fry some more sliced 
onions separately in ghee with a little garlic and a few cloves, 
the almonds and some coriander seeds (ground), and a little 
rice water and turmeric till it forms a sauce ; stand it off the 
fire. Cut the meat in slices, wash it well, put it in a sauce- 
pan with a little water, the rest of the onions, green ginger, salt 
and pounded coriander seeds ; boil till thoroughly done. Put 
the meat and gravy into a coarse eloth ; strain out the gravy 
into a basin ; put some ghee and cloves into a saucepan, add 
the strained sauce and give it a quick turn over the fire. Par- 
boil the rice ; mix it with the gravy, and boil till the rice 1s 
thoroughly done ; put the rice in another saucepan, add the 


PELAUS. 159 


spices ; cover the sauce-pan and let it stand on the fire for a 
few minutes ; put the fish anid gravy on the top and serve. 


2—.Fowl and Egg Pelau. 


Mince % lb. of mutton very fine with some salt and 


Ingredients, coriander seeds; fry in some 
A ane fowl . 
5 eg of the ghee and set on one side. 
1% ibe "of mutton 
1% on rice Chop the rest of the mutton up 
 drachm of cinnamon fine ; add ¥ of the ginger with a 
6 » Cloves little of the spices and salt to the 


2 drachms of black pepper 


% ane, of coriander seeds whites of the eggs well beaten up ; 


% of of onions put the whole into a mortar and 
35 fe oF srean ginger pound it to a paste; make it up 


into small balls and fry them in ghee ; beat up the yolks with 
some sliced onions, ground ginger, spices, and a little ghee; 
heat in a frying-pan and put the mixture in. Dress it as you 
would an omelet ; sprinkle the turmeric over and set it aside. 

Clean the fowl, rub it with some salt andthe juice of some 
of the onions and green ginger ; put in the minced meat as 
stuffing and tie it up close ; put the fowl on the spit; mix 
some of the turmeric, cloves and cardamom (well ground) 
with the curds; smear some of this over the fowl, and keep 
on basting it with the remainder until the fowl is properly 
roasted. Parboil the rice in water with some cinnamon, 
cloves, cardamom and black pepper. Take another sauce-pan ; 
put in the rice, balls, and fried eggs, with some gravy from 
the fowl and ghee ; cover the saucepan closely and let the 
mixture simmer till the rice is done ; then serve it on a dish 
with the roast fowl in the centre. 


3-—Meat and Egg Pelau. 
_ Take 1% \bs, of the meat and cut it into slices; put it 


i60 DAINTY DISHES FOR INDIAN TABLES. 


ingredients Of Meat and Eeg 


Chak. 


2 Ibs. of meat 

bs) eggs 
xo 34 oz. of butter or ghee 
1g Ib. of onions 

1< oz. of green ginger 

I ,, »; dried apricots 

I 4, 5, pistachio nuts 

1 5, », almonds 

I, .. raisins 

40 grains of cinnamon 

20 = 4,_—‘-»- Cloves 

20 9s») cardamons 
20 = 5y_ 5, black pepper 
20 4, __ 5, Curmmin seed 
2 Ibs. of rice 


into a saucepan with the onions 
and ginger, sliced, some salt, co- 
riander seeds (ground in a little 
of the butter) ; boil till the meat 
is tender. Strain off the gravy 
into another saucepan; add a 
little butter and cloves to the 
meat and give it a quick fry over 
the fire; pound the cummin seeds 


and half the spices and add them to the meat. Parboil the 
rice in plain water add it to the gravy and boil till the rice is 
done ; put it and some of the butter into the saucepan with 
the meat; cover closely; simmer gently for an hour. Mince 
the remainder of the meat and give it a quick fry with some 
butter; add some salt and pounded coriander seeds and a little 
water; boil gently; when it is done and the ghee and pravy are 
well mixed put in the raisins, pistachios, apricots, blanched 
almonds, and spices, with the whites of the eggs well beaten 
up, and let it all stand beside the fire till it is quite done; fry 
the yolks of the eggs in a little butter; put the rice on a dish, 
the minced meat on it, the fried eggs on the top, and serve. 


4.—Meat and Plantain Pelau. 


Cut the meat in slices ; put it into a saucepan with some 


Ingredients. 


3 lbs. of meat 
2 oo” rice 
I 4, 9», ghee 
lantains: 
Z b. of onions 
po limes 
. 4 lbs. of sugar 
44 oz. of salt 
40 grains of cinnamon 
20 ,,_ +», Cloves 
20 ,, », Cardamons 
34 Oz. green ginger 
»» coriander seeds 
20 grains of cummin seeds 


water, sliced onions, green ginger, 
pounded, salt and coriander seeds 
and a little ghee; boil till the 
meat is done; strain the gravy 
into a separate saucepan, add-a 
little ghee and some cloves to the 
meat and give it a quick fry ; make 
a clear syrup with 1 lb. of the 


PELAUS. 161 


sugar, a little water, and the juice of 2 limes; add this to the 
gravy. Put the meat into another saucepan with the 
corianda seeds, spices and a little of the gravy ; mix well and 
boil till the gravy is reduced. Parboil the rice in water, stir 
it into the gravy, and boil till it is tender ; add it to the meat 
and boil together for ro minutes; add some more ghee; 
cover the saucepan close and simmer over a gentle fire. 
Make some more clear syrup with the remainder of the sugar, 
a little water, and the juice of a lime; cut each plantain 
length-wise in 4 pieces, and boil these in the syrup till done. 
Serve the pelau with the plantains and gravy on the top. 


a ; 
ae SSSEZe oe 


VEGETABLES. 


—_——~———— 


1.—Boiled Potatoes. 


They should be as nearly the same size as possible; 
wash off the earth and rub them with a clean cloth, but 
neither scrape them nor take off the eyes. Rinse them 
in cold water, and put them into a saucepan close together, 
so that they may not lie loose, and a small quantity of 
water will suffice to coverthem. Pour this in cold, and 
when it boils throw in a tablespoonful of salt, and simmer 
the potatoes until they are nearly done; then boil guickly 
for three or .four minutes. When they are quite tender 
(which may be known by probing them with a fork), pour 
off all the water, tip up the lid so as to let the steam escape, 
and put the saucepan close beside the fire for ten minutes. 
They must be sent to table zustantly either peeled or in 
their skins, and should be served on a hot napkin. Some 
potatoes are done in twenty minutes, some take one hour 
or more, it depends on the size and also on the kind of 


potato. 

Note.—This common vegetable which is so delicious when properly 
cooked, is generally prepared in such a manner as to be perfectly un- 
eatable, sodden and heavy, and-many people who find it disagree with 
them attribute the fault to the vegetable instead of to the manner of 
cooking. Dressed as above, served in their skins and eaten with a 
little fresh butter, they afford in themselves an almost sufficient meal. 

Note 2.—Potatoes are better boiled in salt water than in fresh. 


2.—New Potatoes. 
Rub off the skins with a rough cloth: let them stand half 


VEGETABLES. ‘ 163 


an hour in cold water ; put them into boiling water with one 
saltspoonful of salt, and boil ten minutes. Pour off the 
water, steam for ten minutes, and serve on a hot dish with 
one ounce of fresh butter in the centre, or on a hot napkin, 
neatly folded. 


3.—Fried Potatoes. 


Pare the potatoes and cut them into thin slices or quarte 
ers; let them stand in cold water ten minutes; drain and 
wipe them quite dry; throw them into a sauce-pan half filled 
with boiling fat, and fry to a light brown colour. Take them 
out with a slice, and put them on a sheet of white blotting 
paper (or brown paper) on a sieve, before the fire, to absorb 
the fat before serving. 


Note.—The secret of good fried potatoes is to put them into plenty 
of boiling fat. The wire baskets recommended for whitebait may be 
advantageously used for all kinds of frying. 


4.—Mashed Potatoes. 


Boil as directed, and rub them while quite hot through a 
sieve; put the pulp into a saucepan with two ounces of 
butter, three saltspoonsful of salt, one of pepper, and one 
gill of cream heated (or the same quantity of milk with one 
yolk beaten in it).. Beat vigorously over the fire with a 
wooden spoon to make them light, and serve at once. 


5.—New Potatoes in Butter. 


Rub off the skins with a coarse cloth; wash the 
potatoes and wipe them dry, and put them with three ounces 
of butter into a small saucepan ; simmer them gevé/y for half 
an hour over the fire, shaking them all the time ; when they 


164 DAINTY DISHES FOR INDIAN TABLES. 


are half done sprinkle a teaspoonful of salt over them ; : 
very hot on a hot dish. 


Note.—A little chopped parsley sprinkled over them when th 
is put in is a great improvement. 


6.— Potatoes, ala Maitre d’Hotel. 
Boil the potatoes as directed. If they are large, cut | 


Ingredients, _ In slices about quarter of an 
x spoonful of broth, (or white . . 
sauce.) thick ; 1f new, serve them w 
4 oz. of butter . 
Some pepper and salt When done put them into as 


1 teaspoonful of chopped _pars- . . . 
saucepan with all the ingredi 


and toss them gently over a: 
fire until they are quite hot. Serve instantly, 


ey ; 
1 dessertspoonful of lemon juice 


”.—Potatoes, a l’Italienne. 
Boil the potatoes as directed, peel them, put them thr 


Ingredients. a sleve into a saucepan ; spr 
1 tablespoonful of cream (or . . . 
milk) with a little salt, put in the 
1 oz. butter f ' h th d 
2 eggs of the eggs, the cream and 1 
Some salt 88 ? 


and stir them over the fire 
a wooden spoon. Beat the whites to a strong froth and 
them in lightly with the potatoes; pile them up in ar 
form on a dish and brown before the fire or in an oven; or 
press them into a mould well buttered and strewed with 


bread-crumbs, turn them out and brown in the oven. 
Note.—If any of this potato is left it is delicious formed into 
dipped in beaten egg and fine bread-crumbs, and fried brown in bi 


8.—Baked Potatoes. 


Scrub and wash them exceedingly clean; wipe them 
dry, and either bake them in front of the fire, placing t 


VEGETABLES. 165 


a{ a distance from it and turning them constantly, or bake 
them in a moderate oven. Serve very hot with some cold 
butter. They will take from one and three quarters to two 


hours. 


9.—Potato Snow. 


Boil the potatoes as directed, and when they are done 
Press them through a wire sieve, previously heated, into the 
hot dish on which they are to be served. 


10.—New Potatoes, a la Creme. 


-B oil the potatoes as directed, cut them into slices and put 


Ingredients. 


4% ill of cream 
©... of fresh butter 
x “Saltspoonfiul of sat 


epper 
Whe} juice of half lemon 


row nd the dish. 


them into a stewpan with the 
ingredients. Toss them for a few 
minutes over the fire, and serve 
them with sippets of fried bread 


11.—Potatoes, a la Proveneale. 


Cut up the potatoes into rounds a quarter of an inch 


Ingredients. 


S boiled potatoes 
02. of salad oil 

2 teaspoonful of chopped pars- 
ley and shalot 

x saltspoonful of salt 


» pepper 
The juice of half lemon 


thick ; fry them in boiling oil till 
of a light brown color; season 
them with the parsley, shalot, 
pepper and salt, and pour over 
the lemon-juice. 


Note.—A small piece of glaze about two inches square is a great 


Improvement. 


12—Potato Croquets. 


Bake the potatoes; rub their pulp through a sieve ; put 


166 DAINTY DISHES FOR INDIAN TABLES, 


Ingredients of Potato Croquets. it into a stewpan with the butter 
6 potatoes 


t oz, of butter the three yolks, salt and pepper ; 

3 yolks of eggs . ° 

r saltspoonful of salt stir over the fire until the paste 
99 23 pepper e 

Some beaten eggs ceases to adhere to the sides of 


Some bread-crumbs . 
the stewpan; turn it out ona 


plate, put another over it, and let it stand till cold. Then 
shape it into balls, dip each into beaten egg, and then into 
bread-crumbs, and fry to a light brown color in boiling fat. 


13.—Potato Salad. 


Cut some cold boiled potatoes into slices; add some 
beetroot and celery and some lettuce leaves, cress or en- 
dive ; season with oil, vinegar, pepper, salt, chopped pars- 
ley and shalot, and serve. 


14.—Potato Hash. 


Put some cold chopped potatoes into a frying-pan with 
one ounce of butter, or two slices of bacon cut into little 
pieces ; stir over the fire for five minutes; add some cold 
meat minced and seasoned with pepper and salt, and fry 
gently until hot all through. Serve at once, with or without 
fried sippets. 


15.—Kale Cannon. 


Take some mashed potatoes and the remains of cabbage 


Ingredients. or brussels sprouts; chop the 
Pepper and salt . 
% oz. of butter latter a little; mash these well 
2 tablespoonsful of cream or . . 
milk together and season with a little 


1 onion 


pepper and salt, the butter and 
milk. Put a raw onion into the middle of the mash, stir 
over the fire until it is very hot; take the onion out, and 
serve the Kale Cannon at once on a very hot dish. 


VEGETABLES. 167 


16.—Spinach, plain. 

Pick off the stem of each leaf and avoid using any that 
are old or discolored; wash the spinach in several waters, 
and put it into a quart of water with a dessertspoonful 
of salt; press it down with a wooden spoon, and let it boil 
rapidly (uncovered) for fifteen minutes; drain it through 
a sieve, and press out all the water; mince it quite fine, 
and put it into a small stewpan with a pat of butter and a 
little pepper and salt; stir for two or three minutes, and 
serve at once with some fried sippets of bread. 


17.—Spinach Puree. 


Prepare the spinach as above; when the water has been 


Ingredients. pressed out, rub the spinach 
2 oz. of butter . . 
1 saltspoonful of salt through a coarse wire sieve, and 
’ ’ r ee ° 
. teaspoonful of white sugar put it into a stewpan with all the 
1 piece of glaze (or a little . . . 
strong broth ingredients ; stir it over the fire 


with a wooden spoon for six minutes, and serve piled up 
on a hot dish garnished with fried sippets. 


18.—Spinach Puree with Cream. 


Prepare as above, but at the moment of serving stir in a 
tablespoonful of thick cream. 


4Vote.—Turnip tops may be dressed as above and are an excellent 
substitute for spinach, and the young leaves of dandelions dressed in 
the same way are a delicious and most wholesome dish. 


19.—Spinach and Poached Eggs. 


Prepare and dress spinach as for spinach purée with 
cream. Break four fresh eggs into separate cups; have a 


168 DAINTY DISHES FOR INDIAN TABLES. 


small bright omelet pan full of boiling water; put in a salt 
spoonful of salt and teaspoonful of vinegar; pour in care- 
fully one egg at a time; as one sets, put in another; they 
will require three minutes ; take them out with an egg slice, 
drain off the water, and place the egys ncatly on the spinach. 
Serve at once. | 


20.—Sorrel. 


Sorrel is dresscd in the same way as spinach, and all the 
recipes may be used for it. 


21.—Stewed Sorrel. 
Wash the leaves clean ; boil them tender in water and rub 


Ingredients. through a hair sieve into a sauce — 
14 ounce of butter ‘ 
1 spoonful of white sauce pan ,; add the butter and whitee= 
1 saltspoonful of salt . 
ty  Stigar sauce ; sprinkle over the salt anecd 


sugar; stew for a few minutes, and serve with sippets cof 
toast. 


22.—Stewed Endive. 


Choose a piece of nice white endive, pick it and blanch 


Ingredients. it in boiling water, put it into 
int of veal broth . 
4 Pie of ham (or bacon) cold water; take it out and 


squeeze it well; chop it with a knife ; put it in a saucepan 

with the broth and bacon. Let it simmer over a gentle fire 

until it gets thick ; remove the ham, and serve at once. 
23.—Stewed Lettuces. 


Strip off the outer leaves and cut away the stocks; wash 


Ingredients. them very carefully and throw 
1 saltspoonful of salt ; 
’ »9 pepper ‘ . 
1 oF. of hater ppe them into water with a table 
A little flour . ‘es 
A teacup of broth spoonful of salt. Boil for twenty 


VEGETABLES. 169 


of Stewed Lettuces. or thirty minutes, and when they 
wee vinegars OF are quite tender take them out 
ss all the water out of them;chop them (not very 
id put them into a clean saucepan with the pepper, 
butter; then dredge them with a little flour, add the 
nd boil quickly until they are nearly dry; stir in the 
lice or vinegar, and serve instantly with fried sippets 
em. 


24.—Green Peas, plain. 


eas must be young, fresh gathered, and fresh shelled. 


Ingredients, Dissolve the sugar and salt in the 
of peas . . . . 

f water water, and while it boils rapidly 
oonful of sugar . . ° 
cmint ot put in the peas and mint; boil 
min 

fresh butter fast, uncovered, for fifteen or 


ninutes ; drain, take out the mint, turn the peas on 
dish, put the butter in the centre, and serve. 


25.—Green Peas, a la Francaise. 


he heart of the lettuce apart, and put it into a stew- 


Ingredients. pan with the onions, peas, sugar 
+t of one lettuce 
onions and salt, half an ounce of butter 


peas ; 

joonsful of loaf sugar and the water; simmer gently for 

onful of salt . 

fresh butter half an hour, shaking constantly. 

ul of water . 
Take out the lettuce and onions, 

f the water, and put in one ounce of butter; shake 


mixed with the peas, and serve very hot. 


26.—Peas, a la Créme. 


the peas as directed, drain them and put them into a 
Ingredients. small degchee with all the ingre- 


butter . . 
oonful of salt dients ; toss them over the fire till 


NN 


170 DAINTY DISHES FOR INDIAN TABLES. 


Ingredierts of Peas, a la Créme. well mixed, and - serve very ho 
1 saltspoonful of pepper . ° 
ry », Sugar either with cutlets, or as a veget: 
I wineglassful of cream 


Or one tablespoonful of white ble separate. 
sauce 


27.—French Beans, plain. 


Strip off the strings by breaking off each end ; cut the bea 
into shreds one and halfinches long and the sixth of an inc 
thick ; throw them into water with one teaspoonful of salt | 
it, and let them remain one hour ; drain and put them in’ 
fast-boiling water with one tablespoonful of salt, and boil fa: 
uncovered for twenty minutes. Drain and serve at once. 

Note.—French cooks hold that we lose the flavor of the bean by c: 
ting it so thin, and thus allowing all the juice to escape, that it is bett 


when the beans are very young not to cut them, and only to cut them 
half (lengthwise) when they are older. 


28.—French Beans, stewed. 

Boil as directed above for fen minutes; drain and put the 
into a small degchee with two tablespoonsful of broth, o 
ounce of butter rolled in a tablespoonful of flour, and hall 
tablespoonful of pepper; stew gently, ten or fifteen minut 
till tender, and serve very hot. 


29.—Fried French Beans. 


Boil them either whole, or cut as above; drain off th 
water, and fry them in dissolved butter until they are slight! 
browned ; sprinkle over a little pepper, and serve. Colt 
beans are quite as good as fresh boiled, dressed thus. 


30.—French Beans, a la Francaise. 


The beans must be quite fresh and young ; strip off tht 


VEGETABLES. rv 


of French Beans, strings and ends and put them 
Ne into cold water for one hour; 
drain and throw them into a sauce- 

pan of boiling water with the salt, 
fies of 2 lemon and boil uncovered for one quar- 
ur; drain quite dry. Knead the butter with the 
chives ; put the beans and butter into a degchee 
ender (about fifteen minutes) ; add the lemon- 
erve at once. 


ful of salt 
! of chopped 


-Puree of Green Peas for Garnish. 


peas for twenty minutes with the mint and 


‘dients. onions ; drain off the water; bruise 
1 peas : 
s the peas in a mortar, and rub them 
eal through a sieve or coarse cloth ; 
of salt 
+ Pepper put the pulp in a small stewpan 


ar 


with the butter, glaze, pepper, salt 
stir over the fire until quite hot, and pile up in the 
e cutlets. 


ote. —A little spinach-juice improves the color. 


32.— Asparagus. 

f the outer skin, cut off the end of the stalk leav- 
iuragus about seven inches long; tie it up into 
h tape ; let it remain in cold water about two hours. 
plenty of boiling water with salt, and boil un- 
twenty or thirty minutes ; take it out the moment 

Cut a round of bread half an inch thick, take 
t, toast the bread, pour over it while on the fork 
the water in which the asparagus 1s boiling, spread 
er on both sides, lay it on a hot dish, take the 


wy Stel cG. 


\ 


172 DAINTY DISHES FOR INDIAN TABLES. 


tape off the asparagus and serve it on the toast, with m 
butter, or German sauce (see recipe) in a tureen. 


33.—German Sauce. 


Mix the baked flour with the cream and stir it over 


inertia fire until it begins to thicl 
1 tablespoonful of baked flour 
14 pint of cream then add the beaten yolk, bi 
1 beaten yolk - . 
2 oz. of butter salt and vinegar; stir all 
XY of asaltspoonful of white . 

pepper gether three minutes, and s 


4 ” : 3° salt ° 
1 teaspoonful of white vinegar as directed. 
34.—Asparagus Salad, cold. 


Boil the asparagus as directed above, and let it get 
Put it into along deep dish; mix one tablespoonfu 
vinegar, two of oil, one saltspoonful of salt, half saltspoc 
of pepper, one saltspoonful of minced parsley, and pour 
the asparagus. 


35-—Asparagus Toast. 


Scrape and wash the asparagus, soak it in cold wate 


Augredients. two hours ; put it into plent 
1 bundle of asparagus eae . 
3 spring onions boiling water with the on 
1 handful of parsley . 
t dessertspoonful of salt parsley and salt, and let it bo 
1 oz. of butter . 
1 dessertspoonful af flour half an hour. Drain off the \ 
1% saltspoonful of salt 
} 1 ay Pepper and remove the onions and 
1 oz. of glaze (if at hand) ; 
1 saltspoonful sugar ley. Bruise the asparagus | 


mortar, and rub it through a sieve ; put the pulp in a s 
saucepan with the flour, butter, salt, pepper, glaze and su 
stir over the fire for five ininutes, pour over some toast, 
serve. 

36.—Sea-Kale. 


Is tied in bundles and dressed in precisely the sani 


VEGETABLES. 173 


asparagus, and served with either melted butter, or German 
satuce (see recipe.) 


37.—Broad Beans, with Parsley Sauce. 
“Khe beans must be young and fresh shelled. Put 


Ingredients. tnem into the boiling water with 
8 pints of be . 
3 Squarts of water the salt, and boil (uncovered) 


= tabi sful of salt : . 
“peo twenty-five minutes; drain and 


s©&© we with parsley sauce (see recipe). 


38.—Broad Beans, ala Francaise. 


Woil the beans as directed in the preceding receipt; put 


Ingredients. them in a degchee with the butter, 
Wb, of butter . . . 
dessertspoonful of chopped parsley, chives, and milk, simmer 


tsspoonfl of chopped chives (shaking the stewpan frequently) 
for quarter of an hour; beat the 
yolk with the cream, stir it care- 
fully into the beans, and serve immediately. 


Kaeo wi\ 


yo 
gill of thick cream 


39.—Haricot Beans. 
Soak the beans all night ; put them on the fire in a deg- 


Ingredicnts. chee of cold water and let them 
X saltspoonful‘of salt . 
Pee pepper boil slowly for two or three hours, 
{ teaspoonful of parsley chopped . . 
x yy ny Chives till tender; drain off the water, 
X tablespoonful’of lemon-juice . 
3 02, of butter and stir in the salt, pepper, pars- 


2 tablespoonsful of cream . . 
ley, chives, lemon-juice and but- 


"Y, put on the lid of the saucepan and simmer half an hour, 
aking constantly ; add the cream and serve. 
These beans are most delicious cooked as above, with the 
dstitution of one gill of good gravy for the cream, and 
ved with a roast leg of mutton. 


a Pe 


174 DAINTY DISHES FOR INDIAN TABLES. 


40.—Artichokes. . 


Take off some of the outer leaves, trim the stem and cut off 
Ingredients. the points of the leaves with a pair 

: be eonful, stole a of scissors ; wash the artichokes 
2 quarts of water and leave them in water for an 
hour. Put the vinegar and salt into the water, when it boils; 
put in the artichokes, and boil uncovered for three quarters 
of an hour. Drain off all the water, and serve on a napkin 


with melted butter (see recipe) in a tureen. 


41.—Jerusalem Artichokes. 
Pare them and wash them in cold water with the vinegar 
Ingredient. in it; boil in plenty of water (boi® — 
1 teacupful of vinegar . . : 
ing) for twenty minutes; dral 22 
them on a sieve, and serve with white sauce(see recipe) poux- 
ed over them, or melted butter (see recipe). 


42.— Jerusalem Artichokes, fried. 


Boil them as in the foregoing receipt ; beat the eggs, sea- 


dugredients, son the bread-crumbs with the 
2 yolks of eggs 
2 oz. of fine bread-crumbs pepper, cayenne, and Parmesan; 
I grain of pepper . . . 
1 pinch of cayenne dip the artichokes in the egg and 
1 tablespoonful of grated par- . 
mesan cheese strew them over with bread- 


crumbs ; fry in butter to a pale brown color eight minutes, 
and serve at once. 


43.—Mushrooms, baked. 
The mushroom must be perfectly tresh and of a moderate 
size. Peel them and pull out the stems ; wash them quickly 
in cold water, and wipé them quite dry ; fill the black sides 


VEGETABLES. 175 


with butter, and on that sprinkle a grain of salt, a grain of 
pep per, and a pinch of cayenne, on” each mushroom. Place the 
muzshrooms, butter uppermost on a dish, and cover them 
wath another dish; bake in a quick oven about twenty 
minutes; and serve very hot with their own gravy poured 
ov er them. 

| Another way. 

Prepare them as above. When they are seasoned put 
them on rounds of toast, about six on a round; cover them 
with finger bowls, and bake as directed. Serve them with 
the finger bowls still on so that they may be very hot. 


44.—Fried Mushrooms. 


Prepare as in the foregoing receipt and cook on a gridiron, 
oY in a frying-pan with the butter uppermost, for a quarter 
Of an hour. 


45.—Stewed Mushrooms. 


Take off the skins and stems, wash them and put them 


Ingredients. in a small saucepan (an earthen 
2 oz. of butter : : 
r tablespoonful of water stewpan is best), with the butter, 
t teaspoonful of vinegar : . 
x saltspoonful of pepper water, vinegar, pepper, and salt ; 
I teas Salt . . 
M% gillof cream simmer for twenty minutes, throw 


in the cream, and serve very hot. 


46.—Grilled Mushrooms. 


The mushrooms should be large ; if fresh skin them and 


« Ingredients. remove the stalks; lay them 
Some mushrooms . A . . 
Oil, pepper, and salt on a dish with a little oil, and 
ittle broth ° 
Some chopped parsley sprinkle some galt and pepper over 
young onions 
The yolk of an e them; let them stand an hour, 


Two tablespoonsful of cream . se 
then broil on a gridiron over a 


176 DAINTY DISHES FOR INDIAN TABLES. 


clear fire ; serve them dry on toast, or with the following 
sauce :-—Mince the stalks, or any spare pieces of the mush- 
rooms fine, put them into a small stewpan with the broth, 
chopped parsley, and onions; beat the yolk in the cream, 
stir it in, beat all thoroughly together, and pour round the 
mushrooms. 


47.—Mushroom Toast. 


Skin and clean the mushrooms and put them into a small 


Ingredients. stewpan with the lemon-juice, but- 
2o button mushrooms ° 
The juice of a lemon ter, pepper and salt; tie the 
oz. O utter . 
some pepper and salt cloves, onions, parsley and savory 
3 cloves : ° . 
Small onions, parsley, and sweet in a piece of muslin and put them 
savory . . 
A little flour in also; stew gently until nearl 
_ Some veal broth , . 8 . y y 
2 yolks of eggs dry ; dust in a little flour, add 


3 tablespoonsful of cream . 
enough of broth to moistens, and 


stew gently for a quarter of an hour. Take out the herbs; 
beat up the eggs and cream, add them to the mushrooms: 
make some good buttered toast, put the mushrooms and 
sauce on it, and serve at once. 


48.—Cucumber. 


Pare the cucumber and cut it into slices one eighth of an 
Ingredients. inch thick; put it on a plate and 


x dessertspoonful of salt . : 
¥% saltspoonful of white pepper strew the salt over it; let it re- 


¥ grain of cayenne . tk 
2 tablespoonsful of good oil main for two hours ; throw it into 
2 dessertspoonsful of vinegar . 
a quart of cold water, and drain 
immediately on a napkin. Place the slices (which will 
have become quite thin) on a dish neatly, sprinkle over 


them the pepper and cayenne, and add the oil and vinegar. 


VEGETABLES. 177 


49.—Stewed Cucumbers, white. 


The cucumbers should be fresh cut; peel them and cut 


Ingredients. each into four pieces lengthways, 
2 large cucumbers . . . 
x quart of water 4nd again each piece into two, 
1 tablespoonful of salt . . 
34 pint of veal stock slanting the knife that the ends 
1 dessertspoonful of white . . 
vinegar may be pointed. Put them into 
x teaspoonful of sifted white . . 
sugar the cold water with the salt in 
2 yolks of eggs . . 
1 gill of cream it, and let them remain an hour; 


drain them, take out the seeds, and put the pieces of cucum- 
ber in a stewpan with the stock; vinegar, and sugar; sim- 
mer gently for half an hour. Beat the yolks with the 
cream ; take out the cucumber and place them on a dish ; 
stir the eggs and cream into the sauce for two minutes ; 
pour it over the cucumbers, and serve at once. 


50.—Stewed Cucumbers, brown. 


Prepare cucumbers as in the foregoing receipt, place 


Ingredients. them in a stewpan with the sha- 
2 shalots 
1 teaspoonful of brown sugar lots, chopped, the sugar, pepper, 


¥ saltspoonful of white pepper . 
1 tablespoonful of brown vine- vinegar, salt, butter and stock ; 


gar . 
1 saltspoonful of salt simmer gently for an hour, and 
2 oz. of butter 

34 pint of stock serve. 


Note.—Eight small onions will be found a great improvement. 


51.—Turnips, plain. 

The turnips should be moderate sized ; pare them neat- 
ly and put them into cold water to blanch for an hour; 
throw them into boiling water with a dessertspoonful of salt, 
and boil for half an hour, or until quite tender; drain and 
serve very hot. 

Note.—Some people think that they are of a better flavour if boiled 


and pared afterwards. 
x 


178 DAINTY DISHES FOR INDIAN TABLES. 


52.—Mashed Turnips. 
Prepare and boil the turnips as directed for plain turnips 


« turn Ingredients. press out all the water and rub 

turn 

¥% saltspoonful of salt them through a wire sieve with 

I oz; of butter ( d 

x gill of thin cream, (or new : } 
of a wooden spoon; put them into 


astewpan with the salt, butter, 
and cream; stir over the fire until they have absorbed all 
the moisture, and serve boiling hot. 


Note.—A little good white sauce if you have it at hand, is a great 
improvement to this excellent receipt. 


53.—Turnips Glaces, with Sugar. 


Trim the turnips inthe shape of small pears, (if they 


Ingredients. are quite young, which is best, 
z dozen young turnips . 
% oz. of butter leave them their own shape); 
2 oz. of pounded loaf sugar 
1 saltspoonful of salt put the butter, sugar, and salt 


¥% pint of good broth . . 
into a deep saucepan, moisten 


with the broth, and lay in the turnips carefully ; simmer 
very gently over a moderate fire for twenty minutes ; re- 
move the lid, set the pan on a brisk fire to reduce the 
sauce to a glaze, rolling about the turnips with great care to 
avoid breaking them. Dish with the sauce poured over. 


54.—Turnips stewed in Butter. 


The turnips must be young and finely grained; wash, wipe 
Ingredients. and pare them; slice them half 

vA tems an inch thick and divide them 
iy teaspoonful of sAlte pepper into dice. Dissolve the butter 
in a saucepan and lay in the turnips; stew very gently for an 
hour ; when they are half done, season with the salt and 


pepper. Serve either in the centre of cutlets or by them- 


VEGETABLES. 179 


selves, and garnish or not at pleasure with fried sippets of 
bread. 


55.-—Carrots. 
Rub the carrots with a coarse cloth and cut off the ends; 
Ingredients. put them into boiling water 
x dessertspoonful of salt . 
I tablespoonful of loaf sugar with the salt, sugar, and parsley; 
I sprig Oo e ° ° 
r gill of hot cream boil about half an hour if they 


are young, an hour if they are old; drain and serve with the 
hot cream poured over them. 


56.—Carrots with Butter. 


Prepare the carrots as above, but instead of the hot 
ingredients. cream, put them Into a saucepan 


2 oz. of butter . . . 
1 teaspoonful of minced parsley with all the ingredients and toss 


1 saltspoonful of salt . 
__, 1» White pepper them very gently until they are 
A pinch of cayenne . 
well covered with the sauce, 
which must never be allowed to boil. Serve very hot. 


Note.—Cold carrots may be re-dressed in this way. 


57.—Carrots a la Francaise. 


Scrape the carrots; cut the small ends into two and the 


Ingredients. large ends into eight pieces; boil 
dessertspoonful of salt . . 
2 tablespoonsful of sugar in water with the salt and sugar 
2 oz. of butter . 
¥% pint of new milk for one hour; drain on a cloth; 


The yolks of two eggs . 
4 place them on a stewpan with the 


butter, stew until the butter is nearly absorbed by the car- 
rots; pour in the milk, and simmer gently for an hour. Beat 
the yolks; place the carrots on a hot vegetable dish; stir the 
eggs into the milk; simmer two minutes; pour the sauce 
over the carrots, and serve. 


180 DAINTY DISHES FOR INDIAN TABLES. 


58.— Puree of Carrots. 


Boil the carrots till quite tender, press the water from 


Ingredients. them and rub them through a 
3 Ibs. of fine carrots . . 
2 oz. of butter fine sieve; put them into a clean 


7) dessertspoontul of pounded stewpan and dry them thorough- 
¥% pint of cream ly over a gentle fire, taking great 
care they do not burn; add the butter, and when this is well 
dissolved and mixed with them, strew in the sugar and salt; 
stir in the cream by degrees, and when the purée is thick 


and not too moist serve garnished with sippets of toast. 


59.—Stewed Celery, with White Sauce. 


Cut off all the coarse outer leaves of the celery, trim 


Ingredients. the stem, cutting it across, one 
fine heads of celery . 
of a pint of veal stock inch down; wash well and let 
2 yolks of eggs . . ; . 
1 gill of cream it remain in water with a little 


salt in it for several hours ; put it into a stewpan with the 
stock ; simmer very gently an hour and a half. Take out 
the celery and stir into the gravy the beaten yolks of two 
eggs and the cream; when set (two minutes will suffice), 
pour the sauce over the celery and serve. 


60.—Stewed Celery, with Brown Sauce. 


Wash and trim the celery as directed in the foregoing 


Ingredients. receipt ; put it in a stewpan with 
2 oz. of butter . “1 . 
2 dessertspoonsful of dried flour the butter, and simmer tii] slight- 
1 teaspoonful of sifted sugar 


1 saltspoonful of salt ly brown. Dredge over the flour, 
One twelfth part of a nutmeg 
1 saltspoonful of pepper sugar, salt, grated nutmeg and 


1 pint of stock (No. 1) 
The strained juice of a lemon pepper ; shake the pan and pour 


in the stock by degrees ; simmer gently for an hour and a 
half ; add the strained lemon-juice, and serve. 


VEGETABLES. 181 


61.—Salsifis. 


Scrape and cut the ends off each; throw them into cold 


Ingredients. water with the vinegar and salt, 
1 wineglassful of vinegar . . 
1 teaspoonful of salt and let them remain ten minutes ; 
2 oz. of butter . . 
1 tablespoonful of dry flour then boil them in the same water 
% pint of boiling milk . 
¥% gill of thick cream for about twenty minutes. Serve 


with white sauce or melted butter (see recipe) poured over. 


62.—Fried Salsifis. 
Make a batter with the eggs, milk, and flour, well beaten 


Ingredients. together for twenty minutes ; dip 
2 eggs . . . : 
4 pinto milk lof flour each (cold boiled) salsifis into 
Some butter or oil the batter and fry until of a light 


brown color either in butter or oil. Serve very hot. 


63.—Parsnips, plain boiled. 


Scrape and wash the parsnips; cut out every speck or 


Ingredients. blemish ; cut off the small end, 
x teaspoonful of salt ws . . 
1 45 y, sugar and divide the thick end into 


four or six pieces lengthways ; put them into boiling water 
with the salt and sugar ; boil moderately fast for three quar- 
ters of an ‘hour, and skim the water all the time. Serve 
with salt fish or boiled pork. They are very good mashed, 
(see recipe for Mashed Turnips). 


64.—Fried Parsnips in Batter. 


Cut up some cold boiled parsnips; dip the pieces in a 


a eggs eM batter made of the eggs, milk 
i hes poonsfil of flour. and flour, (well beaten for twen- 
Some butter or oll ty minutes) and fry in butter or 


oil till of a pale brown color; serve very hot. 


182 DAINTY DISHES FOR INDIAN TABLES, 


65.—Fried Parsnips, plain. 

Boil some parsnips until they are about half done; when 
sate white neon, batter they are cold wipe them ina 
j cloth, slice them thickly, sprinkle 
with salt and pepper, and fry in butter till of a pale brown 
color. Can be served separately, or with roast meat. 


66.—Vegetable Marrow. 


Pare the marrows very neatly; cut them into quarters 
lengthway ; take out the seeds and wipe the marrows with 
a coarse clean cloth; put them into boiling water, with a 
teaspoonful of salt, and boil for ten or fifteen minutes, Toast 
a round of bread, without crust; pour over a cupful of the 
vegetable water, and butter the toast. Serve the marrows 
upon it with either melted butter or white sauce (see re 


cipes. ) 
67.—Vegetable Marrow, fried. 


Prepare as above, dip into eggs and fine bread-crumbs 
and fry in plenty of butter until of a pale brown color. 


68.— Stuffed Vegetable Marrows. 


Have two moderate sized fresh cut marrows ; rub the skin 


Ingredients. with a coarse cloth; cut off each 
k sausage meat . 
some Pesh-cut arlic end about half an inch deep; 
nt of stock (No. 1) 
I 4 Brely chopped shalot scoop out all the seeds and fill 
The juice of 6 large tomatoes . 
1 tablespoonful of vinegar the vacancy with pork sausage 
¥ grain of cayenne . ° 
+ saltspoonful of pepper meat pressed tightly in; rub the 
bed Sait ° ° 
3 of a nutmeg, grated bottom of a stewpan six times 


2 oz. of butter } . 
across with the fresh-cut garlic; 


lay in the marrows; add the stock and all the other ingre- 


VEGETABLES. 183 


dients, laying one ounce of butter on each marrow ; simmer 
gently for four hours ; baste the marrow frequently with the 
sauce ; skim off the fat, and serve with the sauce poured 
over the marrows. 

Note.—Any white mince may be used instead of the pork sausage 


meat ; game is especially good, and the bones of the birds may be used 
to make the stock. This dish makes a delicate entrée. 


69.—Portugal Onions, stewed. 


Peel the onions and place them in a stewpan ; knead the 


Ingredients for each Onion. butter and sugar; put it on the 
. of butt , 
4 Sitspoonful of sifted sugar onions and let them slowly be- 
1 teaspoonful of tomato sauce . 
z tablespoonful of gravy come slightly browned; then pour 


over each the tomato sauce and 
stalk ; siramer gently for three hours, basting the onions fre- 
quently with the gravy. Serve very hot. 


70.—Portugal Onions, boiled. 


Peel the onions and boil them in salt and water for ten 
minutes ; throw them into cold water for half an hour; 
then put them into a saucepan, cover them with cold water, 
and let them boil gently for one hour. Drain and serve 
with melted or dissolved butter over thein. 


71.—Portugal Onions, roasted. 


Peel the onions and place them in a Dutch oven before 
a good fire; baste them frequently with dissolved butter (an 
ounce for each), and roast for an hour and a half. Serve 
with or without their own sauce. 


72.—Portugal Onions, fried. 


Peel and slice the onions quite thin; fry them in plenty 


184 DAINTY DISHES FOR INDIAN TABLES, 


of boiling butter or olive oil till of a pale brown color, 
fifteen to twenty minutes. Drain-on a sieve before the 
fire for five minutes. 

73-—Portugal Onions, stuffed. 


Peel the onions; scoop out the centre, making a hole 


Ingredients. two inches across; fill them with 
2 large Portugal onions 
Some pork sausage meat* the sausage meat and place them 


2 apples chopped fine 
1 tablespoonful of baked flour 1 . 
1 tablespoontu in a stewpan; pare, core and 


int of stock (No. 1) . 
7 strained juice of 2 lemons chop the apples very fire ) knead 
1 tablespoonful of brandy the ffour with the butter; put 


* Any white mince will do, and : . . 
if you use game the stock can half on each onion > put in the 


Pedese® from the bones of the apples and stock; simmer very 
slowly for three and a half hours; baste the onions fre- 
quently with the gravy ; pour the lemon-juice and brandy 
over the onions, and in five minutes skim off the butter and 


serve, with the sauce poured over the onions. 


74.-—Boiled Leeks. 
Trim off the root and the outer leaves; cut the green 
Ingredients. ends off, leaving the leeks six 

x tablespoonful of salt . 

1 dessertspoonful of vinegar inches long ; wash them well, put 
them into boiling water, with the salt and vinegar, and boil, 
uncovered, for three quarters of an hour. Serve upon hot 
buttered toast without crust, and pour either white sauce or 


melted butter (see recipes) over them. 


75.—stewed Leeks. 


Trim and wash the leeks as in the preceding, recipe, and 


Ingredients, stew them in the stock for an 
1 pint of stock (No. 1) . 
x tablespoonful of vinegar hour and a half; add the vine- 


gar and serve. 


VEGETABLES. 185 


76.— Beetroot boiled. 


Wash the roots delicately clean, but neither scrape nor cut 
them, and do not take off even the fibres until they are boiled 
or you will spoil the color. Throw them into boiling water 
and boil from one and a half to two and a half hours, or 
even longer, according to their size, which varies greatly. 
Pare and cut into thick slices, and serve with melted butter 
(see recipes) poured over them. 


77.—Beetroot, baked. 


Wash and wipe the beetroot very dry, but neither cut nor 
break amy part of it ; lay it in a warm earthen dish and bake 
it in a gentle oven from two to four hours, according to size. 
When cold take off the skin'and serve it in any of the follow- 
ing ways :— 


78.—Cold Beetroot with French Sauce. 


Ingredients. Cut the cold beetroot into 
2 tablespoonsful of oil* . . . . 
1 i‘ », Vinegar slices: mix all the ingredients 
1 small teaspoonful of sifted. . 
sugar and pour them over it. Serve 
1 saltspoonful of salt . 
1 1, Pepper with cold meat, fish or cheese. 


I pinch of cayenne 
* Cream used instead of oil will be found a great improvement. 


79.—Stewed Beetroot. 


Bake the beetroot one hour, and when cold take off 


Ingredients. the skin; cut it into slices a 
int of any stock . . . 
7 Pinspoont yl of salt quarter of an inch thick; put it 
1 ”? »: Pepper ° * 
1 pinch of cayenne into a stewpan with the stock, 
1 shalot, chopped 
2 sprigs of parsley, chopped salt, pepper, cayenne, shalot and 


1 wineglassful of vinegar . 
parsley; simmer three quarters 


of an hour; add the vinegar, and serve. 


186 DAINTY DISHES FOR INDIAN TABLES. 


80.—Beetroot and Onions with sauce Piquante. 
Boil the beetroots till tolerably tender with the button 


Ingredients. onions ; let them remain till cold, 
2 or 3 beetroots . 
2 OF 3 dozen button onions then pare the beetroots ; slice 
1 ordinary-sized onion . 
1 oz. of butter them and lay them in a stewpan. 
14 pint of good stock . 
1 tablespoonful of arrowroot Prepare the following sauce :— 
1 gillof good cream .. . . 
t dessertspoonful of chili Chop the onion, fry it brown in 

vinegar . . 

t saltspoonful of pepper the butter, thicken with the ar- 
1 teaspoonful of salt 


rowroot ; stir in the cream ; stew 
the beetroot ten minutes in this sauce, and as you take it 
off the fire add the vinegar, pepper and salt. Serve the 
onions in the centre, the beetroot and sauce round. 


81.—Cauliflower, plain. 


Choose a cauliflower that is white and firm, but not hard: 
trim off the stem and the outer leaves; leave it in a pan 
of cold water with a handful of salt in it for three hours: 
wash it very thoroughly and examine it well to see that no 
insects remain in any part of it. Put it into plenty of 
boiling water with a tablespoonful of salt, and boil (uncovered) 
for twenty-five minutes ; drain on a sieve. Serve with melted 
butter (see recipe) in a tureen, or poured over it. 


82.—Caulifiower with Parmesan Cheese. 


Boil the cauliflower as directed in the preceding recipe: 


Ingredients. divide it into pieces the size of 
2 oz. of Parmesan cheese grated 


1 teaspoonful of flour of mustard a walnut, leaving out the stem 
1 saltspoonful of white pepper dl S h ed 
1 pinch of cayenne an eaves. ason 
2 oz. of dissolved butter © cason the grat 
cheese with the mustard, pepper 
and cayenne; dip each piece of cauliflower into the cheese 


and place them close together on a flat dish; strew the 


“re 


VEGETABLES. 187 


remainder of the cheese over the top, baste with the dis- 
solved butter and bake in a quick oven for a quarter of an 
hour. Serve immediately. 


83.—Stewed Cauliflower. 


Prepare cauliflower as directed for plain boiling, and when 


Ingredients, it is about half done take it out 
14 pint of veal stock ° 
% o7. of butter of the water and put into a small 
1 dessertspoonful of flour. . . 
1 squeeze of a lemon saucepan with the stock and sim- 


mer till tender. Take out the cauliflower’and put it on a hot 
dish ; set the saucepan on a quick fire, roll the butter in the 


flour, stir it into the sauce for two minutes, add a squeeze of a 


lemon, pour the sauce over the cauliflower, and serve at once. 


84.—Brocoli. 


Brocoli is prepared in exactly the same way as cauli- 
flower, and may be served according to any of the preced- 
ing recipes. 


85.—Brussels Sprouts. 


Free them from all discolored leaves, cut off the stems 
and wash them thoroughly. Throw them into a saucepan 
of boiling water with a tablespoonful of salt and boil them 
quickly from eight to ten minutes; drain them well and 
serve upon thick rounds of buttered toast with or without 
melted butter (see recipe) in a separate dish. 


86.—Brussels Sprouts, French way. 


Boil the sprouts ; put them into a saucepan with the but- 


Ingredients. ; 
2 oz. of butter ter, salt and pepper; toss over 


1 saltspoonful of salt the fire for three minutes. Add 


188 DAINTY DISHES FOR INDIAN TABLES. 


Ingredients of Brussels Sprouts, the lemon-juice and white sauce 
French way. 


¥% saltspoonful of pepper or broth, stir for a minute, and 
A few drops of lemon-juice . 
2 tablespoonsful of white sauce Serve very hot with a border of 


or veal broth . 
sippets. 


87.—Cabbage. 

Trim off the outer leaves and stem and divide the cab- 
bage into four quarters; wash carefully and leave it in 
cold water with a handful of salt in it for two hours. Put 
it into fast boiling water with a tablespoonful of salt, and 
boil rapidly (uncovered) for twenty minutes, if a small cabbage, 
forty minutes, if a large one; drain on a sieve, press out the 
water with a plate, and serve very hot either plain or with 
melted butter (see recipe) poured over. 


88.—Stewed Cabbage. 


Cut out the stalk entirely and slice a firm fine cabbage 


Ingredients. or two in thin strips; after they 
1 oz. of butte 
1 saltspoonful ‘of salt have been well washed and 
er ° ° 
4 tablespoonful "of flour drained; throw them into a 
1 cup of thick cream or some weet 
veal broth large pan of boiling water ready 


salted and skimmed, and when 
they are tender, (in about ten or fifteen minutes) pour them 
into a sieve or strainer; press the water thoroughly from 
them, and chop them slightly. Put the butter into a very 
clean saucepan, and when it is dissolved add the cabbage: 
sprinkle over the salt and pepper and stir it over a clear fire 
until it appears tolerably dry; then shake in the flour 
lightly, turn the whole well, and add the cream or broth by 


slow degrees. Serve very hot. 


\ 


\ | VEGETABLES. "189 
' 89.—Stuffed Cabbage. 


Take a moderate-sized firm young cabbage, trim and 


Ingredients. well wash it; put it into warm 
% of alb. of pork sausage meat.* . 
4%, ., beef or veal) water with one handful of salt 
4 shalots 


~ guet . . 
and a wineglassful of vinegar, 
4 sprigs of parsley . . 
The peel of half a lemon (grated) and let. it remain two hours. 


\% of a nutmeg (grated) ; 
1 tablespoonful of mixed herbs Make a stuffing as follows :—Mix 


choppe 


(powdered) 
6 tablespoonful of salt all the ingredients down to the 
S wenustard | egg well beaten eggs (inclusive) well 
‘. of ape of any stock or together; cut the stem off the 


2 oz. of butter a . 
The strained juice of two large cabbage, and with a sharp knife, 


lemons scoop out sufficient of the heart 

Ay lo white mince to make space for the stuffing ; 
press in the stuffing ; bind the cabbage with a piece of tape ; 
put it into the stewpan with the gravy and butter (or the 
cabbage) ; simmer gently for three and a half hours; add 
the strained lemon-juice, take off the tape, and serve at 


once with the gravy in the dish. 


90.— Roast Tomatoes. 


Choose them of nearly the same size; take off the stalks, 
and roast them gently in a Dutch oven, or put them at the 
edge of a dripping pan, taking care that no fat from the 
roasting joint shall fall on them, and keeping them turned 
so that they shall be equally done. Serve with roast 
mutton, or beef, or veal. 


g1.—Stewed Tomatoes. 
Arrange the tomatoes in a stewpan in a single layer ; 
pour over them as much gravy as will reach to half their 
height; stew them very gently until the under sides are 


igo 


DAINTY DISHES FOR INDIAN TABLES. 


done, then turn and finish stewing them. Thicken the 
gravy, either with a little arrowroot and cream, or with flour 
and butter. and serve with the gravy poured over them. 


92.—Stuffed Tomatoes. 


Make a forcemeat with all the ingredients down to 


Ingredients. 


3 oz. of cold fowl or veal 


I 


ean 
1 teaspoonful of chopped parsley 


oz. of cooked ham (fat and 


” »» mixed sweet 
herbs 
yy +, salt 
}, white pepper 
t 


The yolk of one hard boiled egy 


I 
I 


anchovy (cleaned and boned) 
oz. of butter dissolved to a 
cream 


Some cut lemons and cayenne 


the anchovy (inclusive) ; pound 
them to a paste, then add the 
dissolved butter. Wipe each 
tomato, cut off the stem, scoop 
out the seeds, and fill the toma- 
toes with the forcemeat. Bake 
on atin dish in a quick oven 
from ten to fifteen minutes, place 


them on a hot dish, and serve with cut lemons and cayenne 
pepper on a plate. 


QO = we mH oe 


1 
I 
I 
+ 


17) 


93.— Tomatoes a la Provencale. 


Rub the skin of the tomatoes with a soft cloth: cut 


Ingredients. 


or 6 large ripe tomatoes 
gill of salad oil 
dozen button mushrooms 
handful of parsley 
shalot 
oz. of scraped fat ham or 
bacon 
saltspoonful of pepper 
”? 13 salt 
” », chopped thyme 
yolks of eggs 


Some fried bread-crumbs 


¢ 
y2 


pint of brown sauce 


off the part of the tomato next 
the stalk, and scoop out the seeds, 
without breaking the sides of the 
tomatoes ; place them in circular 
order in a stewpan ; pour in the 
salad oil; chop up the mush- 
rooms, parsley and shalot; put 
them into another saucepan with 


the chopped ham ; season with the pepper, salt, and thyme. 
fry these together for about five minutes, then add the beaten 
yolks; fill the tomatoes with this preparation: shake the 
bread-crumbs over them, and place over a brisk fire, hold 


VEGETABLES. 1gti 


ing a red hot salamander over them for about ten minutes, 
by which time they will be done; dish them up with some 
brown sauce poured round them, and serve. 


04.—Puree of Tomatoes. 


Cut the tomatoes in half, take off the stalks and scoop 


Ingredients. out the seeds, lay them in a 
1 dozen fine ripe tomatoes . . 
r small mild onion stewpan with the onion and gra- 
\% pint of good gravy . 
¥ saltspoonful of cayenne vy ; simmer for one hour: when 
1 teaspoonful of salt . . 
% of a pint of good cream they begin to boil add the cay- 


1 teaspoonful of flour 
enne and salt; take out the toma- 


toes, press them through a sieve, put them back into the 
stewpan, heat them again; mix ‘the cream with the flour, 
and boil for five minutes; stir it into the tomatoes, and 
simmer gently for a few minutes, until the purée is nice 
and thick, Then serve very hot, either as an accompani- 
ment to veal cutlets, calf brains, pork, beef, or roast goose 
or else as a vegetable by itself. 


65.—Tomato Toast. 
Rub the skin of the tomatoes with a soft cloth; divide 


Ingredients. them in halves; take out the 
4 or 6 large ripe tomatoes . 
2 oz. of fresh butter seeds ; knead the butter with the 


1 grain of cayenne — 
1g saltspoonful of white pepper Cayenne, pepper, salt, and nut- 
1 


9 9 $s 
¥% of a nutmeg grated meg. Place the tomatoes on a 
The strained juice of a large 
lemon 1 1 . . 
Some hot buttered toast baking dish ’ fill each with the 


butter ; bake in a quick oven for 
twenty minutes; add the lemon-juice, and serve upon the 
buttered toast zvevy hot. 


96.—Truffles, a la Serviette. 


Select some very fine truffles; wash and brush them 


192 DAINTY DISHES FOR INDIAN TABLES. 


Ineredients of Trufiesala well with cold water; line a 
Serviette. 


Some bacon small stewpan with slices of fat 


x bunch of parsley Tied to- . . : 
Green onions and thyme ether bacon ; lay in the truffles with 


dozen cloves . 
“es cloves of garlic the bunch of parsley, onions, and 
Some rich veal gravy . 
¥% pint of champagne thyme, the cloves and garlic ; pour 


in enough veal gravy to cover them; add the champagne; 
boil very gently for an hour, draw them aside and allow 
them to cool in the gravy. Heat them afresh when they are 
wanted for table; lift them out, and drain on a very clean 
cloth, and send them up to table on a beautifully white 
napkin to show off their color. 


97.— Truffles, a l’ Italienne. 


Wash and wipe the truffles, and pare them carefully 


Ingredients. (reserving the trimmings for flavor- 
1 oz. of fresh butter . . . 
Minced eschalot and )_ 1 teaspoon. ing) ; slice them about the size of 
parsley ful 


1 saltspoonful of salt an 8 anna plece ; put them into 
I ” 1» pepper ° ° 

The juice of 1 lemon a frying pan with the butter, es- 
rt pinch of cayenne 

¥% pint of rich brown sauce chalot and parsley, salt and pep- 


per ; fry over the fire, stirring carefully for ten minutes ; add 
the lemon-juice, cayenne and brown sauce ; stir over the fire 
for two or three minutes, and serve very hot. 


98.—Truffies, a la Piedmontaise. 


Clean and pare the truffles and cut them in halves ; lay 


Ingredients. them in a small saucepan with the 
¥% Ib. of truffles ; . . 
2 tablespoonsful of Lucca oil oil, flavorings, and salt ; fry them 


i table’ over a brisk fire for five minutes : 
spoonfu . 
remove the garhe, then add the 


» thyme 
1 clove of garlic 
Mignionette pepper 
1 saltspoonfu: of salt 


1 gravyspoonful of rich brown brown sauce, glaze, and lemon 
sauce 


Chopped parsley 


VEGETABLES. | 193 


Ingredients of Truflesala juice ; toss the whole over the 
Piedmontaise. 6 h h 

x small piece of glaze re ; have ready the hollow crusts 

phe Juice of #4 lemon of two French rolls from which a 


2 oz. of butter round piece of crust at the top has 


been removed; spread it thickly with butter, put it inthe 
oven for ten minutes to brown, and then pour in the truffles 
and serve at once. 


99.—Curried mixed Vegetables 


May be made of any of the following vegetables mixed in 
about equal quantities : peas, beans, cauliflower, carrots, tur- 
nips, tomatoes, asparagus, leeks, artichokes, brocolis, haricot 
beans, celery, sprouts, and greens, 

Boil and cut up the vegetables into neat pieces. Slice the 

Ingredients. onions, knead the curry powder 
Vegetables 


3 onions with the salt and butter, put it 
x tablespoonful of curry pow- 


der into a frying pan with the onions, 

I teaspoonful of salt . . 
3 oz. of butter and fry till slightly browned ; then 
(x tablespoonful of cream is a a . 
great improvement) stir in the vegetables and fry until 


well saturated with the curry; stir all the time (about ten 
minutes). If you have the cream stir it in as soon as done, 
and serve at once with or without some plain boiled. rice 
(see recipe.) 


100.—Chartreuse of Vegetables. 


Boil and blanch the carrots and cut them and the turnips 


Ingredients. into shapes with a cutter ; boil the 
dozen pieces of carrots . . : 
3 doz. prec’ of turnips onions. Boil and chop the Spl- 
», button onions . 
A handful of spinach nach, cauliflower, and asparagus 
1 cauliflower . : 
1 dozen asparagus heads heads ; line a mould with the 


Some slices of bacon . 
slices of bacon ; arrange the car- 


L 


194 DAINTY DISHES FOR INDIAN TABLES. 


rots, turnips, &c., round the bottom and sides in any pattem 
you fancy ; press the spinach well over them to keep them in 
shape and fill up the remainder of the shape with any vege- 
tables you may have. These should be stewed in broth and 
seasoned with salt and pepper. Set the mould in a panof 
hot water (taking care there is not enough water to boil over 
into the mould ; ) boil for an hour ; serve with brown sauce. 

Note.—The mould may, if preferred, be put in an oven and baked for 
an hour. This is a very delicious dish. 


101.—Macedoine of Vegetables. 
Scrape and clean the vegetables and cut the turnips, cat- 


Ingredients. rots and potatoes with a cutter, 
d . 
12 button onions ops boil all the vegetables in the broth 
2 turnips . 
2 carrots with the butter, salt and pepper 
32 new potatoes . . e 
20 French beans till done ; stir in the white sauce 
A little broth . 
1 oz. of butter and sugar; toss lightly over the 


2 saltspoonsful of salt fi q h ‘ther alone 
2 ” » pepper rean eve ot, eitner alo 
2 tablespoonsful of thick white c serv ry ? 


sauce or in the centre of a side dish. 
x teaspoonful of sugar 


Note.—Any vegetables which happen to be in season, peas, cauli- 
flower, brussel sprouts, &c., may be used either in addition to or in- 
stead of those given. 


SALADS. 


nee 


1 order to ensure a good salad it is essential that the 
ice should be perfectly fresh and crisp, that the oil should 
eally good, (a very rare thing in India) and that the dress- 
should not be poured over the salad until just before it 
anted. 

ter rinsing, all lettuces should be carefully wiped ina 
n cloth or shaken dry in a salad basket, and then droken 
vith the fingers into small pieces. 


1.—An English Salad. 


lever let the lettuce soak in water ; rinse it and wipe it 


, Ingredients. immediately in a soft clean cloth ; 
ablespoonsful of salad oil os . os 
.» ,, vinegar split it down the stalk and divide 
etaspoonful of sugar . . 
altspoonsful of salt each leaf into four pieces; add 
» ay, Pepper 


water-cress, beetroot, radish, and 
ots if you have them; mix the ingredients of the sauce 
ther carefully, stir in, and serve at once. 


2.—A French Salad. 
Ingredients. 


: Rinse and dry the lettuce as in 
ly one kind of lettuce . . oe. e 
ablespoonful of fine salad oil the foregoing recipe ; break it into 


%” a9» tarragon . . 
vinegar = small pieces ; mix the sauce care- 


” 9» French vine- . ee ; 
saspoonful of salt fully, stir it in lightly, and serve 


altspoonful of pepper 
ne chopped chervil & chives at once. 


196 DAINTY DISHES FOR INDIAN TABLES. 


3.—Another English Salad. 


Put the lettuce, endive, celery, beetroot and cucumber ina 


Ingredients. salad bowl; make the salad mix- 
zr lettuce 

x head of endive ture as follows: put the cold 

mon celery (shred) . . . 
Some slices of beetroot yolks into a basin with the salt, 
hard-boi ited yolk” tard 

2 har (0) ° 
2 teaspoonful of salt 4 mustard, sugar and Pepper 
»» Mustar 1 

Te altspaonful of leaf segar bruise the yolks with a wooden 


t good "tablespoonful of thick © SPOOn and add the cream by de. 
cream . ° e ° 
x good tablespoonful of salad oil grees ; whén it is well INCOTpo- 


” 1 ° s e . e 
6 drops of tarragon Vneee™ rated, stir in the oil and vinegar; 


mix well and pour over the salad. 


Note.—A little Anchovy or Worcester sauce is considered by some 
epicures as an improvement to the above sauce. 

The above salads may, if preferred, be served with Tartar 0 
Mayonnaise sauce (see recipe.) 


4.—Flemish Salad. 


Ingredients. Cut the herrings into small 
The fillets of four salt herrings 


x beetroot (ready cooked & cold) pieces, slice the beetroot and 
4 boiled potatoes 


2 apples, peeled, and shred* potatoes and chop the onions 
Some Brussel sprouts . . . 

A head of celery Put all the ingredients in a salad 
A few small onions 


bowl, season with oil, vinegal; 
pepper and salt. 
Note.—Any dried or pickled fish may be substituted if preferred. 


* These may be omitted 


5.—Lobster Salad. 

Lobster, salmon, or crab salads may be made with lettuce, 
endive, cucumber, cress, &c., and serve with Mayonnaise of 
Tartar sauce. (.See recipes.) 

6.—Tomato Salad. 


Mix one drop of’ extract of garlic with a teaspoonful of 


SALADS. 197 


3 spread it over a flat dish. Wash and dry the toma- 
lice them and lay them on the dish; sprinkle liberally 
1e salt; shake a little pepper over; pour a few drops 
nd a teaspoonful of vinegar over each slice, and serve 
ilad should be prepared an hour before it is used. 


7.—Russian Salad. 


the ingredients are to be chopped fine. Put some of 


Ingredients. the chopped whites and yolks 
boiled eggs . 
xt (separately) aside, also some beet- 
ries root and lettuce, (about three 


ytatoes 


tablespoonsful of each.) Mix the 
old chicken or any white remainder of the ingredients with 
oil, vinegar, tarragon, sugar, pep- 
id salt; when the mixture is well saturated and soft 
up on a dish, smooth with a spoon. Then cover it 
n sections with the yolks and whites of eggs, the 
2d beetroot and lettuce alternately, so that the differ- 
lors contrast prettily. Then garnish round the edge 
ices of beetroot, eggs, tomatoes, &c. 
—This is a delicious dish and particularly adapted for cold 
ns, pic-nics, and ball suppers. 


8.—Cold Meat Salad. 


ce any cold meat—game is the best, and add equal 
ties of sliced beetroot and chopped celery. Season 
il, vinegar, pepper and salt. 


9.—Hot Vegetable Salad. 


Ingredients. 
25 ° } Break up the vegetables quick- 
it + boiled ly with a wide pronged fork ; add — 


1s the pepper, salt, onion, and 
| sprouts J 


198 DAINTY DISHES FOR INDIAN TABLES. 


Ingredients of Hot Vegetable . 

Salad. parsley; put in the cucumber 
1 Spanish onion (raw) . nee 
2 tablespoonsful of chopped pars- and onions chopped ; stir in the 


. ley . . . 
8 »  » Luccaoil ~ oil, and lastly the vinegar. Mix 
5 ” », tarragon vinegar . 
1 teaspoonful of salt well, and serve in a salad bowl 


1 saltspoonful of white pepper 
Some slices of cucumber 
A few spring onions 


EGGS. 


a 


1.—Boiled Eggs. 


The eggs should be perfectly fresh and must be cooked 
n sufficient water to cover them completely. The water 
nust be Jotling when they are put in and then the time 
equired will be: underdone, three minutes; to render the 
whites firm, three and half to four minutes ; hard, eight to 
en minutes. 

Eggs cooked in the shell without boiling, for invalids: 
Put some boiling water into a strong basin—a slop basin ; 
let it remain a few seconds; pour it out; lay in the egg or 
eggs, and roll them over to take off the chill ; then pour in 
over the egg quite boiling water from a: kettle, till the egg 
is well covered ; put a plate over the basin instantly and 
let it remain on the table for twelve minutes, when it will 
be found beautifully cooked, so as to be palatable even to 
People who cannot eat eggs dressed in the usual way. 


2.—Poached Eggs. 


Half fill a bright frying pan with boiling water; add one 
and a half saltspoonsful of salt and two teaspoonsful of vine- 
gar; break each egg separately into a cup; pour them care- » 
fully into the water, while boiling ; with a smali slice throw 
the white over the yolk ; when done, drain for half a mi- 
Nute, then serve.either on hot buttered toast or on spinach, 
Or sorrel. 


200 DAINTY DISHES FOR INDIAN TABLES, 


3.—Poached Eggs with Anchovy Toast. 


Prepare the eggs as above, and pour a little Anchovy 
sauce on the toast in which the eggs are to be served. 


4.—Eggs and Bacon. 


Cut some thin rashers of bacon; cut off the bones and 
skin ; lay them in a frying pan, and fry both sides brown. 
Break as many eggs as you have rashers, each in a separate 
cup and fry one at atime. Tilt the pan and pour the egg 
carefully into the fat, and with an egg slice constantly throw 
the boiling fat over the egg; three minutes will suffice for 
each egg. Place an egg on each rasher, and serve very hot. 


5.—Eggs au plat. 

Take any dish which will bear the heat of fire. Cut a slice 
of butter and melt it in it; break some fresh eggs into 
separate cups and lay them in the butter one by one; strew 
a little pepper (mignionette if you have it) and salt over each 
egg, and place the dish over a gentle fire until the whites 
are quite set. Hold a salamander over the top for a moment, 
and serve at once in the same dish. 


6.—Buttered Eggs. 


Put two ounces of fresh butter into a frying pan ; break six 
eggs into a basin ; sprinkle in some pepper and salt; break 
the eggs slightly with a fork ; when the butter is boiling, lift 
the frying pan off the fire; pour in the eggs and stir them 
quickly with the fork until they set ; great care must be taken 
that they are not allowed to become hard ; have ready 3 
round of buttered toast, pour the eggs over, and serve at 
once. 


EGGS. 201 


7.—Buttered Eggs with Truffles. 
Put the butter into a frying pan with the eggs and the 


Ingredients. truffles (cut into small slices) ; 
6 new laid eggs 
2 oz. of butter add the cream, pepper and salt. 
Toys 99 trufite ° * ° 
2 tablespoonsful of cream Stir quickly with a wooden spoon 
A little mignionette pepper . 
Some salt or a fork over the fire until the 


>pgs begin to thicken ; then take the frying pan off and con- 
‘nue to work the eggs until they become firm but do not 
iarden. Serve very hot either in a dish by themselves, or 
on buttered toast ; or else prepare some sippets, stand them 
na circle on a dish, stick them together with a little white 
of egg, dish up the eggs in the centre, and serve at once. 


8.—Eggs in Paper Cases. 


Make some small paper cases. Mix the butter with 


Ingredients. the bread-crumbs, parsley, salt 
2 oz. of butter 
Some stale“bread-crumbs and pepper. Butter the _ bot- 
4 little minced parsley tom of the boxes; put in some 


Some cayenne pepper of this mixture; break an egg 


into each box; cover it over with bread-crumbs ; the boxes 
must be well filled up; put them over the gridiron for two or 
-hree minutes ; pass a salamander over the top, and serve. 


9.—Eggs a la Bonne femme. 


Cut the onion into dice; fry them in a stewpan with 


Ingredients. the butter a light brown; add 
A middle-sized onion the vinegar; butter a tin dish 
% oz. of butter . . . 
4 teaspoonful of vinegar sprinkle the onions over it, break, 
Some bread-crumbs . . . 
Some pepper and salt the eggs into it, and put the dish 


n the oven; mix a little pepper and salt with the bread- 


A2 


202 DAINTY DISHES FOR INDIAN TABLES. 


crumbs, fry them, and sprinkle over the eggs when done_ 
serve at once. 


10.—Eggs grated. 


Boil the eggs hard (which will take ten minutes), sepa- 
2 exes Jneredients. rate them from the whites ; put 
3 oz. of butter a large round of buttered toast 
on a hot plate or dish ; put a sieve over this ; rub the yolks 
of the eggs through the sieve on to the toast; serve at 
once. 


- 


11.—Eggs with Cheese. 


Spread the bottom of a silver, porcelain (fire-proof), or tin 


Ingredients. dish with the butter; cover this 
2 oz. of fresh butter . . . 
Some Gruyére cheese with thin slices of the cheese; 
eggs . 
Some mignionette pepper break in the eggs carefully, so 
ome . 
1 gill of thick cream as not to disturb the yolks: sea- 


son with pepper and salt, pour the cream over the top: 
strew two ounces of grated cheese over this ; set the dish 
in the oven and bake about ten minutes; pass a hot sala 
mander over the top, and serve at once with some very thin 
toast separately. 


12.—Eggs a la Tripe. 


Boil six eggs hard ; immerse them in cold water for three 


Ingredients. minutes, take off the shells and 
6 eggs : . . . 
3 small onions cut them into thick slices. Slice 
A little milk 


2 spoonsful of good white sauce the onions and divide them in 

1 pinch of pepper . . 

The juice of a small lemon the folds of the rings; parboil 
Some fresh cut garlic , fe 

them in water; drain it off, and 

boil for five minutes in a little milk ; then drain upona 


sieve or cloth. Rub the saucepan twice across the bottom 


EGGS. 203 


with garlic, lay in the eggs and the onions, the sauce (see, 
recipe), pepper and lemon-juice; toss over the fire, and 
when quite hot, serve with sippets of toast round the dish. 


13,—Eggs au Gratin. 


Boil, peel and slice the eggs as above. Put the sauce, 
Ingredients. cheese, butter, pepper, salt, yolks 
16 eggs 


1 tablespoonful of white sauce and lemon juice into a saucepan ; 
12 oz. of grated Parmesan cheese 


¥% small pat of butter stir over the fire till it begins to 
1% saltspoonful of pepper . . . 

es? at thicken, then withdraw it ; lay the 
4 yo! § ° . e 
The juice of half lemon eggs in Circular rows on the dish; 


Some fried bread-crumbs 


spread some of the sauce between 
each layer; cover with the remainder of the sauce; strew 
over the fried bread-crumbs mixed with a little grated 
Parmesan, put some sippets of toast round the base, put 
into the oven for ten minutes, and serve. 


14.—Eggs with Nutbrown Butter. 


Put two ounces of the butter into a’ frying pan over the 


Ingredients. fire; as soon as it begins to frizzle 
2 oz. of butter . ; . 
5 eggs break the eggs into it without 
Salt and pepper ; . . . 
2 tablespoonsful of vinegar disturbing the yolks ; season with 


pepper and salt; fry the eggs over the fire for five minutes; 
remove carefully into a hot dish; put the remaining two 
ounces of butter into the pan; fry till it is brown; add the 


vinegar; boil together for two minutes; pour over the eggs, 
and serve at once. 


15.—Eggs aux fines herbes. 


Put the butter into a stewpan; when melted, stir in the 


204 DAINTY DISHES FOR INDIAN TABLES. 


Ingredients of Eggsaux fines milk with a pinch of salt and 


herbes. . 
2 oz. of butter pepper. Break in the eggs and 
“Some stead Peppes stir with a whisk or fork briskly 


eg) 


: dessertspoonful of chopped Over the fire for two minutes, 

parsley taking care it does not adhere to 

the bottom or get | too hard; add the parsley, and continue 

stirring until the eggs begin to set; take off the fire, whisking 

all the time, and the moment they are thick, of the consisten- 

cy of thick Devonshire cream, and rather lumpy, pour them 
over a round of buttered toast and serve at once. 


16.—Eggs and Mushrooms. 


Trim and cut the mushrooms, put them into a stewpan 


Ingredients. with the butter and a pinch of 

12 button mushrooms . 

I on. of butter butter and salt, and _ stew till 
eggs 


Some. bread-crumbs, pepper tender; when done put them in 

a shallow tin dish and break the 
eggs over them, taking care to keep them whole. Strew 
fine bread-crumbs and some pepper and salt over the top, 
put them into a sharp oven for five minutes, or until the 


eggs are well set. Serve at once with fried sippets round 
the dish. 


17.—Asparagus Eggs. 
(Entremets. ) 


Take the asparagus heads, cut the green tops into pieces 


Ingredients. the size of large peas, and throw 
2 tablespoonsful of cream 


, good gravy them into boiling water with 
2 oz. of ‘putter 
A little salt and pepper plenty of salt, and when tender 
6 eggs . . 
2 doz. heads of small asparagus drain them on a sieve. Put the 


cream, gravy, butter, salt and pepper into a stewpan ; break 


EGGS. 205 


in the eggs, and when they begin to set, throw in the aspara- 
gus heads; stir over the fire for half a minute, pour them on 
a hot dish, and garnish with fried sippets. 


18.—Turkey’s Eggs, forced. 


(An excellent entremets. ) 
Boil the Turkey eggs gently for twenty minutes in plenty 


Ingredients. of water, which should cover them 
6 Turkey eggs . . 
2 oz. of fresh butter entirely, and when done lift them 
1 saltspoonful of salt . 
r grate of nutmeg into a large pan of water to cool. 
inch of cayenne . 
1 hen’s egg When ezfect/y cold roll them ina 


I dessertepoonful of rich cream 


cloth, pressing lightly to break the 
shells ; peel them off and cut the eggs evenly in half, length- 
wise. Take out the yolks carefully, and pound them toa 
smooth paste ina mortar or bowl with the butter, salt, nut- 
meg and cayenne. Blend these ingredients thoroughly ; 
whisk the raw yolk of the hen’s eggs; stir it in by degrees; 
add the cream and continue whisking for a few minutes; the 
mixture should now be like thick batter; fill the whites with 
it, (cutting a tiny slice from the bottom of each to make it 
stand evenly on the dish) full and high; smooth over with a 
knife ; put the eggs on a dish, and place them on a very 
gentle oven for a quarter of an hour; -serve instantly with 
brown sauce and mushrooms. 


19.—Curried Eggs. 
Boil the eggs quite hard, as for salad, and when they are 


Ingredients. quite cold take off the shells. Mix 

6 or 8 eggs 
3 oz. of good butter (or oil) the butter and curry powder; put 
3 dessertspoonsful of curry pow- . 

der it into a stewpan and shake over 
2 onions 

int of grav the fire for som 1 ° 
% pint of gravy on e fire ome minutes; chop 


2 teaspoonsful of arrowroot the onions fine and throw them 


206 DAINTY DISHES FOR INDIAN TABLES. 


in ; when they are tolerably soft add by degrees the broth, 
and stew slowly till the whole is reduced to a pulp; mix the 
arrowroot smoothly into the cream, stir into the curry and 
simmer the whole until the raw taste of the thickening is 
gone. Cut the eggs in half; heat them quite through in the 
sauce without boiling them, and serve at once with curry nice 
(see recipe) in a separate dish. 


20.—Scotch Woodcock. 


Wash, scrape, and split the anchovies; bone them and 

. Ingredients. warm them on a plate before the 

2 oa of good cream fre ; whisk the “BBS: (yolks and 
Some grated ham or tongue or whites) with the cream > put them 
in a saucepan and stir over a gentle 

fire till they thicken. Have a round of buttered toast ready; 
lay the anchovies on it, put them close to the fire, and when 
quite hot, pour over the boiled eggs ; sprinkle the grated 


ham, tongue, or hung-beef on the top, and serve at once. 


OMELETS. 


The frying pan in which an omelet is to be made should 
be very small, or the omelet will spread and be too thin, and 
so get burnt. An omelet should be light and thick, and 
only brown on one side; as the eggs Jegin to set roll the 
omelet into the form of an oval cushion. 


1.—A common Omelet. 
The eggs must be very fresh; break them carefully and 
6 ears Ingredients. whisk them until they are very 
4 teaspoonful of salt light; while beating add the 
2 oz. of butter pepper and salt; dissolve the 
butter in a very smad/ frying pan ; pour in the eggs, and when 
it is well risen and nearly firm in the centre, roll it into the 
form of an oval cushion, and serve instantly. 


2.—A good Omelet. 


Break the eggs into a basin; add the cream, the small pat 


Ingredients, of butter broken up, salt and 
6 eggs 
1 tablespoonful of cream epper, to taste: put the butter 
pepper, > P 
1 small pat of butter broken up : . 
2 oz, of fresh butter into a very small frying pan on the 


Salt and pepper oy ene : . 
fire; while it is melting whip the 


eggs, &c., well together till they froth ; as soon as the butter 
frizzles pour the eggs in the pan and stir the omelet ; when 
they set and seem firm, roll the omelet into the form of an 


208 DAINTY DISHES FOR INDIAN TABLES. 


oval cushion ; allow it to acquire a golden color on one side, 
turn out on a hot dish and serve at once. 


3.—Savoury Omelet. 


Add one dessertspoonful of chopped parsley and one 
teaspoonful of chopped shalot to the above recipe, and put 
them into the eggs while you are beating them. 


4.—A very light Omelet. 


Beat the cream, the yolks of the eggs, cayenne and salt 


Yet sikredients together; chop very fine the 
pint of cream 
6 eggs shalot and parsley ; add about one 
1 pinch of cayenne . 
Some shalot and parsley teaspoonful to the eggs, mix well ; 
ome sa 
13% oz, of butter whip the whites separately and 


add them to the omelet ; melt the butter in a frying pan and 
pour in the eggs ; when they set and begin to get firm fold 
over in the form of a cushion, and when one side is golden 
brown, turn it out on a hot dish. Serve either with or without 
gravy. 
5.—Omelet with Cheese. 

Make the omelet according to any of the above recipes, 
and add two ounces of grated Parmesan (or other cheese) 
and some mignionette pepper. 


6.—A Ham, Tongue, or Hung-beef Omelet. 


Prepare an omelet as directed, and add four tablespoons- 
ful of either of the above grated, and a teaspoonful of mus- 
tard, and omit the other seasoning. 


7.—Kidney Omelet. 


Prepare the omelet according to any of the foregoing 


OMELETS, 209 


recipes. Have ready some ready-cooked kidneys (see 
recipes); chop them and add them to the omelet when it is 
ready, just before folding up. Serve with brown sauce. 


8.—Oyster Omelet. 


Prepare the oysters as for ‘“stewed-oysters” (see recipe) 


and lay them in the omelet (prepared according to recipe) 
just before folding up. 


BL 


MACARONI, CHEESE, SAVOURY RICE, 
TOASTS, &c. 


1.—Savoury Macaroni with Cheese. 


Put the macaroni, salt, and water into a saucepan, simmer 


Ineredients. 


8 oz. of macaroni (Genoa) 

3 pints of cold water 

1 quart of stock (No. 2) 

2 oz. of butter 

6 oz. of grated Parmesan (or 
other) cheese 

2 teaspoonsful of flour of mus- 
tard 

2 grains of cayenne — 

1 saltspoonful of white pepper 


very gently for twenty minutes, 
and drain on a sieve. Then put 
the macaroni again into a sauce- 
pan with the stock, and simmer 
till quite tender, (about one and 
three quarters of an hour); stir 


in one ounce of the butter, three ounces of the cheese, the 
mustard, cayenne and pepper; lay it on a dish, and sift the 
remainder of the cheese thickly over it; break one ounce of 
butter in small pieces, spread it over the top; bake ina 
quick oven or before the fire till of a pale brown color 
(twelve to fifteen minutes), serve very hot. 


2.—Savoury Macaroni. 
(Another way.) 


Blanch the macaroni in the boiling water with the salt in 


Ingredients, 


6 oz. of macaroni (Naples) 

2 quarts of boiling water 

1 tablespoonful of salt 

3 oz. of butter 

1 quart of new milk 
teaspoonful of flour of mustard 
saltspoonful of white pepper 
grain of cayenne 

grate of nutmeg 

6 o7. of grated cheese 

2 fresh eggs 

1 gill of fresh cream 


on Ee | 


it; let it remain till cold; then 
drain on a sieve. Put it into a 
saucepan with two ounces of the 
butter and stir over the fire until 
it is absorbed; add the milk and 
simmer very gently till tender 
(one and a half hours); add the 


MACARONI, CHEESE, SAVOURY RICE, TOASTS, &C. 211 


mustard, pepper, cayenne, nutmeg, three ounces of the 
cheese, and eggs (beaten with the cream); place ona dish, 
sift the grated cheese over ; lay one ounce of butter on the 
top, in small pieces; bake in a quick oven or before the fire 
till of a pale brown color (twelve to fifteen minutes), and 
serve at once. | 


3.—Macaroni with Bread-crumbs. 


Blanch the macaroni as in the foregoing recipes (using 


Ingredients. half the quantity of water and 
2 oz. of macaroni . . 
x pint of seasoned stock salt), drain and put into a sauce- 
x oz. of butter . . 
Pepper and salt pan with the stock; simmer for 


Bread-crumbs 


an hour ; add the butter, pepper 
and salt, to taste; stir well together; put on a dish, cover 
thickly with bread-crumbs, brown in the oven, or before 
the fire, and serve. 


4.—Macaroni with Bacon. 


Prepare the macaroni as above ; boil two ounces of streaky 
bacon, cut it into slices, and add before browning. wos. 


x 


5.—Savoury Macaroni Pudding. 


Blanch the macaroni; put it into a saucepan with the 


Ingredients. stock and simmer gently for an 
2 oz. of macaroni : 
1 pint of seasoned stock hour. Make a custard with half 
¥% pint of milk . my 
1 egg a pint of milk and an egg; sea- 
Pepper, salt, shalot . 
Chopped parsley son with pepper and salt, chopped 


1 shalot minced, fine oe 
parsley and shalot; stir into the 


macaroni, and bake in a slow oven for half an hour. 


6.—Macaroni a la Reine. | 
Prepare the macaroni as directed in recipe No. 2; cut 


212 DAINTY DISHES FOR INDIAN TABLES. 


Ingredients 4 Macaroni 2 la the cheese in slices; boil the 
eine. 


6 oz. of macaroni cream, and dissolve the cheese 

6 ,, 3, rich whtte cheese . . 

% pint of rich cream in it gently, add the salt, cay- 
t, cayenne 


% saltspoonful of pounded mace enne and mace; when it Is per- 
2 oz. of butter . . 
Bread-crumbs fried and dried _fect/y mixed and smooth put in the 

macaroni, (well drained and dry). Pour it into a hot dish, 

sprinkle over some bread-crumbs, and serve at once. 


Note.—Bechamel sauce may be used instead of the cream, and is 
a great improvement to this excellent dish. 


7.—Cheese Soufflee or Fondu. 


Grate the cheese; put it into a saucepan with the mus- 


Ingredients. tard, pepper, cayenne, nutmeg, 
© oe. tach cheese (Cheddar == butter, flour and milk; stir it 


1 teaspoonful of flour of mus- 


tar over the fire until it becomes like 
salt: ful of whit - . 
" per uv oe Nae Pee smooth cream (but it must not 
Y grain of cayenne . 
r grate of nutmeg boil) 3 add the yolks of the eggs 
2 oz, of butter 


2 tablespoonsful gg baked four Well beaten; beat the whites of 

1 gill of new milk “« . 

6 eggs the eggs to a stiff froth; add 
them and quickly pour the mixture into a tin or card-board 
mould, and bake at once in an oven for twenty minutes. 
Serve inmediately. 

Note.—The reason a good fondu is so rare in India is that it is not 
baked the moment it is mixed, and is not served the moment it is ready. 


8.—Cheese Soufflee or Fondu. 
(Another way. ) 


Mix the flour and milk to a smooth batter ; boil the cream, 
Ingredients. . and add it boiling to the batter; 

fa pint of i . 
4 oz. of potato-flour, of arrow- __ Stir well together and add the but- 


root . . . . ° e 
% ofa pint ofcream (or milk) | ter in small pieces ; when this is 


MACARONI, CHEESE, SAVOURY RICE, TOASTS, &C. 213 


Ingredients ya Cheese Soufiéeor well mixed and looks like thick 


2 oz. of butter smooth cream, add the yolks of the 
5 eggs 
% teaspoonful of salt eggs, well beaten, the salt, cayenne 
1 pinch of cayenne . . 

3 oz. of cheese (grated) and cheese; whisk well, stir in 


the whites (beaten to a stiff froth) gently without whisking ; 
pour it into the mould, (which it should half fill), put it into 
a gentle oven, shut the door @¢once and do not open it again 
for twenty minutes when it will be ready. Serve at once. 


9.—Bread and Cheese Pudding. 


Mix all the ingredients together and beat with a wooden 


ingredients. spoon for ten minutes; put the 
6 oz. of rich cheese . . . . . 
4 5) »» fine bread-crumbs mixture in a pie dish, and bake in 
2 ;; 5, dissolved butter 


x teaspoonful of flour of mustard a moderate oven for three quar- 
1 saltspoonful of white pepper 


1 pinch of cayenne ters of an hour. Serve very hot, 
1 grate of nutmeg . 

2 gill of new milk with hot dry toast handed round. 
3 beaten eggs 


10.—Stewed Cheese. e 


@ 
Pare off the rind and cut the cheese in slices ; season it 
Ingredients. with the mustard, pepper, and 
% |b. of rich cheese oe . . 
x teaspoonful of flour of mus- Cayenne ; put it into a pie dish; 
¥ saltspoonful of white pepper pour over the sherry ; cut the but- 


», Cayenne e . . ° 
1 wineglassful of sherry ter into small pieces and sprinkle 


I Oz. °f butter 

The yolks of 2 eggs well beaten ver the top ; bake in a quick oven 
until the cheese is dissolved (twelve minutes) ; add the yolks ; 
mix well, pour into a tin dish and bake for ten minutes, or 
till the top is of a pale brown color. Serve very hot, with 


fresh made hot dry toast on a rack. 


11—Welsh Rabbit. 


Cut a round of bread half an inch thick off the bottom of | 


aoe. 
a 


214 DAINTY DISHES FOR INDIAN TABLES, 


| 
x Ineredients of Welsh Rabbit. a loaf ; trim off the crust ; spread 
¥% Ib. of rich cheese 


1 teaspoonful of flour of mus- it thickly with butter; cut the 
tard . . . 
1 grain of cayenne cheese in ¢hin slices ; knead to- 
1% oz. of butter 
gether the mustard, cayenne, and 
flour; stir it before the fire till of a creamy substance; lay 
half the cheese on the bread, pour half the butter equally 
over it ; put the remainder of the cheese on that; cover with 
the remainder of the butter. Place it in a cheese toaster, or 
a Dutch oven, before the fire, or on a tin dish in the oven 
for about twenty minutes. Serve very hot. 


12.—Cheese Toast. 


Grate the cheese ; mix it with the eggs, bread-crumbs and 


Ingredients. butter ; add the mustard, cayenne 

3 0z. of cheese (single Glou- 

cester if possible) and pepper, and beat the whole 
Yolks of 2 eggs 
4 02. of bread-crumbs well together. Toast some bread, 
3 s) », Dutter 
r teaspoonful of mustard cut off the crust, and cover the 
1 saltspoonful of salt . . . . 
% os 1, cayenne slices thickly with the mixture; 


put it into the oven. When brown serve as quickly as 
possible. 


13.— Boiled Cheese. 


Cut the cheese into thin slices ; pound it well in a mortar 


Ingredients. add the well beaten yolks and 

¥% Ib. of Cheshire or Gloucester- . . 
shire cheese white of egg; stir in the cream; 
2 yolks, 1 white of egg . f . ? 
% pint of cream mix all the ingredients well, bake 


on a dish, ten or fifteen minutes; serve very hot with dry 
toast. 


14.—Cheese Ramakins. 
Beat the yolks and whites of the eggs separately ; mix all 


MACARONI, CHEESE, SAVOURY RICE, TOASTS, &C, 215 


a 
"2 redients of Cheese Ramakins. 
S oz. of Gruyére or Parmesan 


the other ingredients well, add 


¢ cheese, grated the yolks; when well mixed add 
1 oz. of fresh butter 1 i j 
TO gr desk butte the whites, and continue baking 


* saltspoonful of flour of mus- for ten minutes. Put the mixture 
either into small paper cases, or 
buttered tins, and bake in a quick oven fifteen to twenty 


minutes. 


15.—Cheese Canapees. 


Cut some slices of bread, rather thin, stamp them out 
Some cl erations with a plain cutter, round or oval, 
Some cheese, mustard, and fry them in clarified butter ; 

spread with a little mustard, lay 
some slices of cheese on each, and sprinkle with pepper ; 
put them in a brisk oven, or before a clear fire, and as soon 


as the cheese is melted, serve hot. 


16.—Cheese Biscuits. 


Beat the butter to a cream; stir in all the other ingre- 


Ingredients, dients, and knead to a firm paste 
¥% Ib. of fresh butter . . . 
36 55 5, baked flour roll it out one eighth of an inch 
5 oz. of rich cheese (Chedder or . . . . 
Parmesan) thick and cut it into biscuits three 


x teaspoonful of flour of mus- 


tar inches long and one inch broad ; 
1 saltspoonful of cayenne . . 
The yolks of 2 eggs bake in a quick oven for twelve 


2 tablespoonsful of cold water . 
minutes. Serve very hot. 


17.—Cheese Straws. 
Rub the butter into the flour; add the cheese, mustard, 


Ingredients. cayenne and salt; mix well to- 
Ib. of dried flour . 
3 »» 5, butter gether. Beat the whites of the 
Y% ,, 5, grated Parmesan or . . 
Gruyére cheese eggs with the water, and stir in 
1 teaspoonful of flour of mus- . 
tard enough to form a thick paste ; 


— / Aye 4 


216 DAINTY DISHES FOR INDIAN TABLES. 


Ingredients af Cheese Straws. knead it well, and roll it ox 
1 saltspoonful of cayenne , 


I gy Salt about one-eight of an inch thick 
2 whites of eggs . , . 

% pint of cold water cut it into strips about five inch 
long and one-eighth of an inch wide. Bakein a quick over 


till of a pale brown color, about five minutes. Pue nicely on 


a dish, and serve hot or cold. Keep them in a dry place. 


18.—Savoury Rice Pudding. 
Boil the rice in the stock with the onion. Make a custard 


Ingredients. with the milk and egg; season 

1 teacupful of rice . 

x pint of good stock with pepper and salt, shalot and 
I onion . . . ° 
¥ pint of milk parsley. Mix with the rice, pour 
I egg . . . . 
Some pepper and salt into a pie dish, and bake ina 
Some chopped shalot and pars- 

ley slow oven. 
j 19.—Savoury Rice. 
awe 
Wash the rice and boil it in one quart of water for ten 
Ingredients. minutes ; drain; put it into a stew- 

3 Ib. of rice . 

2 oz. of butter pan with the butter, sugar, pepper, 
x teaspoonful of salt . 

1 yy loaf sugar nutmeg, lemon-rind, (grated) 
¥ saltspoonful of white pepper te . 

1 grate of nutmeg juice, gravy, and chutney; stir and 
The rind of half lemon 


The strained juice simmer till the gravy is entirel 
1¢ pint of good gravy gravy ely 
1 teaspoonful of chutney sauce absorbed, (about quarter of an 
hour). Serve immediately. 


Note.—Minced ham or bacon, or morsels of fried lamb or mutton, may 
be added to this, and make a nice breakfast dish. 


20.—Rice and Haddock. 


Wash the rice and boil it in one quart of water for ten 


Ingredients. minutes ; drain; fry it with the 
Y% Ib. of rice 
1 grate of nutmeg - butter and some pepper and salt. 


Some pepper and salt . . 
2 oz, of butter When quite hot, add the whites 


MACARONI, CHEESE, SAVOURY RICE, TOASTS, &C. 217 


Ingredients of Rice and Haddock. of the eggs shred fine ; divide the 

3 are haddock haddock with a fork into small 

A litle grated Parmesan cheese ieces and add these; pile the 
mixture up lightly on a hot dish, rub the yolks of the eggs 
through a wire sieve, mix with the Parmesan, and strew this 
lightly over the pile of rice; garnish with fried crdéutons ; 
put it into the oven for five minutes, just so as slightly to 
colour the surface a golden hue, and serve at once. 


21.—Rice, Polish fashion. 


Wash the rice and boil it in one quart of water for ten 


ML tbe of Ingredients. minutes; drain ; cut the onion 
- OF rice . . . ° 
r large onion into thin slices and fry with the 
2 oz. of butter . 
2 sy 99 cooked ham or bacon butter ; add the rice and ham 5 
cut into shreds 
1 pinch of cayenne season with the cayenne and 
1 dessertspoonful of grated . . 
cheese cheese, stir lightly over the fire 


until very hot, and serve at once. 


22.—Rice, Piedmontese fashion. 


Clean the rice and boil it in one quart of water for ten 


Ingredients. minutes ; drain. Chop the onion 
Ib. of rice — 
7 small onion very fine and fry it in a small stew- 
1 oz. of butter . . 
3 baked potatoes pan with the butter ; season with 
1 oz, of grated Parmesan . 
1 pinch of cayenne the cheese, cayenne and salt. Pile 


33 % sa t . . 
Some cleaned fillets of ancho- up the rice on a hot dish, strew the 
vies or sardines ; j 
fillets of anchovies or sardines over 
the top, and serve at once, very hot. 


23.—Rice, Florentine fashion. 
Wash the rice and boil it in one quart of water for ten 


cr 


218 


Ingredients of Rice, Florentine 
Sashion. 


¥% Ib. of rice 
1 onion 
1 dessertspoonful of salad oil 
¥ pint of shrimps or prawns” 
1 dessertspoonful of curry pow- 


der 
1 tablespoonful of grated Par- 
mesan 


* Any kind of dressed fowl, 
game, tongue, ham, truffles, sal- 
mon, or any cold fish may be used 
instead 


24.—Rice, 


DAINTY DISHES FOR INDIAN TABLES. 


minutes ; drain. Chop the onion 
and fry it in the salad oil ; add 
the shrimps and curry powder, 
and fry for a few minutes ; add 
the boiled rice and Parmesan, 
stir well together over the fire, 
and serve very hot. 


Spanish fashion. 


Wash the rice, and boil it for ten minutes in a quart of 


Ingredients. 


¥ Ib. of rice 

1 dessertspoonful of salad oil 

1 tablespoonful of tomato sauce 

1 dessertspoonful of grated 
cheese 

Some pepper and salt 

Some slices of fried ham, bacon, 
sausages, or salmon 


water; drain. Fry it in a stewpan 
with the oil until of a light golden 
colour; add the tomato sauce; 
season with the cheese, pepper 
and salt; pile up on a hot dish 


and garnish with the fried ham. 


25.—Rizzoletti. 


Wash the rice, boil it for ten minutes in one quart of 


Ingredients. 


¥ Ib. of boiled rice 
2 dessertspoonsful of good white 
sauce 
3 yolks of eggs 
1 grate of nutmeg 
Some pepper and salt 
Bread-crumbs 
Mince of any kind 
3 oz. of butter 


water; drain. Put it in a stew 
pan with the sauce, three yolks of 
eggs, nutmeg, pepper and salt: 
stir over the fire until the eggs be 
gin to set; put it aside to cool: 
when cold, take a tablespoonful of 


it, spread it out with a teaspoon, lay in a teaspoonful of any 
kind of mince ; wrap it’ up in the rice so that it forms a ball: 
dip in egg and bread-crumbs ; fry in a frying pan with the 
butter till of light golden colour; dish up garnished with 
fried parsley, and serve very hot. 


MACARONI, CHEESE, SAVOURY RICE, TOASTS, &C. 219 


26.—Kedgeree. 


Boil the rice as for curry (see recipe), and when it is drain- 


Ingredients. ed and cold put it into a sauce- 
oz. of rice . . 
1 3, cold fish pan with the fish (which must be 
999 butter . « ° ° 
jome cayenne and salt divided into small flakes with a 


eggs 


fork). Add the butter in pieces, 
d plenty of cayenne and salt; put over a clear fire and stir 
itil it is very hot ; beat the eggs slightly, add them to the 
‘e, and mix quickly. The rice must not doz? after the eggs 
e added, but must be served just as they are beginning to 
t. Serve with chutney. 

Note.—In the hot season when it is desirable to use as little butter as 


ssible so as not to have rzch dishes, use two more eggs instead of the 
tter. 


17.—Casserole of Rice. 


Wash the rice, drain it on a hair sieve and put it into a 
Ingredients. stewpan with the broth; simmer 
: tb. of best rice 


' quart of veal broth or stock very gently mear the fire until it 
Oo. I 


| oz. of butter begins to swell, then put it on the 


Some rich white mince, or fri- . 
cassee, or oysters prepared fire and simmer as gently as pos- 


as for oyster sauce (see 

recipe) sible for about half an hour or 
itil it begins to be tender; add the butter, and continue 
mmering until it is dry and quite tender enough to be 
Sily crushed with a wooden spoon. Work it to a smooth 
iste by crushing it against the sides of the saucepan; press 
le rice into a well-buttered mould and leave it to cool. 
"hen it 1s cold, dip the mould quickly into hot water which 
ill loosen the contents. Turn out the rice and reverse it 
zain, in a tin or dish, and with the point of a knife mark 
yund the top a rim of about an inch wide. Brush some 


220 DAINTY DISHES FOR INDIAN TABLES. 


clarified butter over the whole pudding, and put into a quick 
oven to colour a pale golden brown; when it. is ready, draw 
it out, raise the cover carefully where it is marked: scoop 
out the rice from the inside, leaving only a crust of about 
one inch in thickness in every part, and fill with the white 
mince or fricassee. 


28.—Dresden Patties. 


Pare the crust neatly either from French rolls or bread 
Inevedients. and divide the bread into circu- 
Bread, milk, eggs, rich white . . . . 
mince or stewed oysters or mush- lar pieces, three inches in dia- 
rooms (see recipes), some butter. . 
meter and two inches deep; hol- 
low them out in the centre to the depth of one inch; dip 
them into milk; lay them on a drainer, and pour milk over 
them at intervals till they are well soaked but do not let 
them break; brush them with egg, rasp the crust of the rolls 
over them, fry a light brown colour and drain them well ; fill 
them with the mince, mushrooms, or oysters (which must 
be ready prepared beforehand), and serve very hot upon a 
napkin. 


29.—Kanapees. 


Cut the bread into slices three quarters of an inch thick, 
Ingredients. then cut into circles with a cutter: 


A large loaf, some oil, hard- . 
boiled eggs, capers, cucumbers, fry a good golden brown in the 


tarragon, chives, some fillets of . 

cleaned anchovies, salad oil, vine- salad oil. Have ready some hard- 

gar, pepper and salt . 
boiled eggs (6); chop them fine: 

also the tarragon and chives; put them into a basin, season 

with oil, vinegar, pepper and salt; pile this preparation on 

the toasts when they are ready; drain the anchovies well, 


scrape off the skin, divide them into fillets, and lay these 


ACARONI, CHEESE, SAVOURY RICE, TOASTS, &C. 221 


tice-work over the top of the canapees. 


Serve at 


30.—Savoury Toasts. 


‘ome slices of bread free from crust, about half an 


Ingredients. 


read, butter, cayenne, 
mustard 

poonsful of English 
2se, (or 6 tablespoonsful 
rruyére or Parmesan) 
poonsful of grated ham 
ig of mustard = and 
ne * 

ood butter 

2s minced, seasoned and 
ider in butter with one 
halots may be served on 
s, and will be much liked 


inch thick; butter the tops 
thickly; spread some mustard 
on them, and then cover with 
a deep layer of grated cheese, 
and of ham_ seasoned rather 
highly with cayenne ; fry them in 
good butter, but do not turn them 
in the pan. Lift them out and put 


yr a few minutes in a Dutch oven or before the fire, to 


e the cheese. Serve very hot. 


31.—Anchovy Toast. 


are some very thin dry toast, spread it with anchovy 
(see recipe), and upon this place some fillets of an- 


3, cleaned, scraped, and with the bones taken out. 


yn a napkin. 


32.—Roties d’Anchois. 


some bread half an inch thick, toast it and soak it in 


Ingredients. 


ies, a little oil, a little 

d lemon-peel, some sha- 
parsley and tarragon 

Ik of a hard-boiled egg 
soonsful of oil, one of 
n-juice, mustard and 
er 


a little good oil. Mince the an- 
chovies, shalots, parsley, tarragon 
and yolks ; add the rasped lemon- 
peel, and mix well together. Drain 
the toasts from the oil; spread 


xture on thick, arrange on the dish on which they are 
served ; make a sauce of the oil, lemon-juice, mustard 
‘:pper, pour over and serve. 


222 DAINTY DISHES FOR INDIAN TABLES. 


33—Curried Toasts, with Anchovies. 


Cut some slices of bread about half an inch thick and two 
Ingredients. __ and-a-half inches square ; frge them 

Some bread, butter or good oil . ; 
Curry Paste, anchovies, and from crust ; fry them in butter (or 
oil); lay them on a dish and 
spread a layer of Captain White’s curry-paste (not very 
thickly) on the top ; place them in a gentle oven for three 
or four minutes. Lay some fillets of anchovies (cleaned and 
boned) across them, replace in the oven for two minutes, 


sprinkle lightly with cayenne, and serve at once. 


34.-—Delicate Trifles. 


Cut the cold game up into little squares, and fry in the 


’ | Ingredients butter with the ham, truffle, mush- 
X% |b. of any cold game (par 


tridge, snipe, rabbit, &c) rooms, parsley and shalots ; season 


A little ham (or tongue) } , 4 with d I 
1 truffle chopped w)] ; 
Mushrooms fine t nutmeg, pepper an “8 
Parsley and shalots when colored brown put in a 
Nutmeg, pepper and salt j } 

1 tablespoonful of good white = mortar with the white sauce, and 
4 ©B8s pound thoroughly ; rub through a 


* This may be made with the 
bones of the game (see recipe for 
white sauce) 


wire sieve, and place the purée in 
a small stewpan;"add the yolks of 
the eggs ; whisk three of the whites to a substantial froth: 
mix in lightly, and with this preparation fill a dozen little 
paper cases; brush over the tops with a paste brush dipped 
in the remaining beaten white of egg; push them into 4 
moderate oven, and bake for twelve minutes. When done 
serve instantly on a napkin; if they are kept waiting they 
will be spoiled. 


35.—Sardine Toast. 


Skin four sardines and mix them to a paste with a piece 


4 
1 


\CARONI, CHEESE, SAVOURY RICE, TOASTS, &C. 223 


ents of Sardine Toast. of butter (the size of a walnut) the 
butter 
rtspoonsful of anchovy red. pepper, and a few drops of the 


ce 
rtspoonful of flour sauce. Put the flour, one spoonfu] 
onful of milk 
of water of the anchovy sauce, the water 
of cayenne pepper . . 
nes and milk into a small saucepan 
of bread 


and stir it into a thick sauce. 
> bread in the remainder of the butter.. Add the paste 
‘auce in the saucepan, stir over the fire for five minutes, 
*r the toast, and pour on the remainder of the anchovy 


36.—Kidneys on Toast. 


the kidneys into small pieces, and put them in a small 


ae stewpan with one ounce of butter, 
F butter a pinch of salt, and a teaspoonful 
ninced onions of minced onion ; stew till tender. 
=rtspoonful of flour Put one ounce of butter, the flour 


nely minced parsley and the broth into another stew- 
: grated nutme 


French roll (or light Pan ; reduce it till it 1s thick ; put 
wot oil or clarified butter in the kidneys, four of the eggs 
> milk (whole), and the minced parsley ; 
ll over the fire for a few minutes, and let it get cold. 
ro slices of bread (stale), dip them in the milk with 
g beaten up in it. Spread the mince over very thick ; 
butter, or clarified butter, and serve very hot. 


37.—Egg and Cress Sandwiches. 


some thin slices of brown bread and butter ; between 


Ingredients. two slices place layers of thinly 
bread, butter, hard-boil- . . 
, small salad or cress, sliced hard-boiled eggs, small salad 
fillets of anchovies. . 
or cress and anchovies; cut the 


into oblongs, and serve them on a napkin. 


224 DAINTY DISHES FOR INDIAN TABLES. 


38.—Chicken or Game Sandwiches. 


Cut some slices of bread and butter (from rolls, if you 


Ingredients. have them), and between two 
White bread and butter . . . 
Cold roast fowl or game slices place very thin slices of the 
Shred lettuce leaves 
Fillets of anchovies fowl, lettuce leaves, and ancho- 


vies. Dish on a napkin and serve. 


39.—Sandwiches of Game and Tartar Sauce. 


The toast must be very thin and crisp; between two 


Ingredients. slices, place alternate layers of the 
Some thin crisp toast . . 
Cold roast game game very thinly sliced, celery and 
Shred celery . . 
Tartar sauce Tartar sauce. Dish on a napkin. 


40.—Fish Sandwiches. 


Cut some slices of thin bread and butter, and between two 


Ingredients, slices put layers of cold fish; 
Brown bread and butter . 
Cold fish and Tartar sauce spread these over with Tartar 
Lettuce leaves ; . . 
Cold boiled eggs and sliced sauce, strew with gherkins, then 
gherkins 


some slices of cold boiled eggs: 
sprinkle with shred lettuce leaves, cover with another slice 
of bread, press it well down, cut into squares, dish on a nap- 
kin, and serve. 


41.—Minced Sandwiches. 


Cut some thin slices of bread, and fry them a light brown 


Ingredients. color in oil; mince the game, 
Bread, oil, ham or tongue 


Any ‘sort of cold game or gherkins, and olives, fine, and 


poultry . . 
Pickled gherkins and olives mix well ; make a sauce of a little 


Vinegar, oil, mustard, sugar . . 
vinegar, oil, mustard and sugar, 
and moisten the mince with it ; incorporate well ; spread the 
mixture thickly on the toast, and lay some more toast on the 


top : cut into neat oblong pieces, and serve on a napkin. 


MACARONI, CHEESE, SAVOURY RICE, TOASTS, &C. 225 


42.—Yarmouth Bloaters. 
Sut off the head and tail, split the bloater down the back, 
2ad it out flat, and broil on both sides over a clear fire ; 
d to table on a hot dish with a pat of fresh butter and a 
ytain’s biscuit, heated in the oven or before the fire. 


43.—Grilled Kippered Salmon. 


3roil the salmon, rub it over with a pat of butter and a 
e cayenne and lemon-juice, and serve very hot. 


44.—Dried Haddocks. 


Jip them in scalding water to enable you to remove the 
1; boil them over a clear sharp fire, rub them over with 
h butter or little rich cream, lemon-juice and cayenne, 
1 serve very hot. | 


45.—Sardines. 
[ake them carefully out of their box, lay them neatly on 
ish, garnish with capers or chopped parsley, pour a little 
sh salad oil over them, and serve with thin bread and 


ter. 
Vote. —Olive farcies served with them area great addition. 


46.—Anchovies. 
Wash, wipe, and scrape the anchovies ; split them down the 
*ks ; place the fillets in neat rows in a dish ; garnish with 


‘es of hard-boiled eggs ; pour over a little fresh salad oil, 
1 serve. 


47.—Devilled Biscuits. 
Take some plain thin biscuits, soak them in pure oil, strew 


D2 


226 DAINTY DISHES FOR INDIAN TABLES. 


thickly with cayenne and salt on both sides, and toast over 
the fire on a gridiron. 


48.—Devilled Biscuits, dry. 

Take some plain cheese bicuits, dip them twice in warm 
water, dredge with cayenne (one saltspoonful for six) and 
bake till quite crisp in a slow oven. Serve piled ona 
napkin. 


. 


49.—Devilled Biscuits, buttered. 


Take some devilled biscuits; dip them into the warm 
Ingredients. milk ; knead the butter, cayenne, 
134 oz. of butter . 
x saltspoonfal of cayenne and mustard together ; spread tt 
I » », four of mus- . . . 
over the biscuits, and bake ina 
slow oven till crisp. Serve hot. 


¢ 


50.— Devil Mixture. 


For any kind of Grill, and also for seasoning Steaks, 
Butter, Sauce, & c. 


Some warm milk 


Ingredients. 


Mix all these ingredients well 
x spoonful of mustard (French 


or English) together, score the meat or fish you 
1 spoonful of Oude sauce, or . . . 
chutnee wish to grill, deeply, cover it well 
1 spoonful of anchovy sauce . } 
2 spoonsful of salad oil with the sauce, and grill brown. 
34 spoonful of cayenne 


51.—Devilled Salmon, Sardines, Bloaters, &c. 


Prepare some devilled biscuits (see recipe No. 41); m0 
some thin slices of kippered salmon with devil’s mixture 
(see No. 44),; lay them on the biscuits; salamander 
them, or place them in a hot oven or before the fire. Serve 
guite hot. 


\CARONI, CHEESE, SAVOURY RICE, TOASTS, &C. 227 


52.—Cheese Biscuits. 


the butter to a cream, add the flour, cheese, mustard, 


Ingredients. cayenne, and yolks; mix well ; 
resh butter . 
iaked flour knead to a fine paste ; roll it out 


ich cheese, grated . . . 
onful of flour ofmus- one-elght of an inch thick, and 


onsful of cayenne cut into biscuits with a circular 
ks of two eggs well ; . . . 
: cutter about two inches in dia- 
meter, or cut into slices one inch 
d three inches long ; bake in a quick oven for twenty 


Serve very hot. 


an 
woonsful of cold water 


35.—Pulled Bread. 


the crust off a new warm loaf; pull the crumb into 
leces about two inches long; lay them on a sheet of 
and bake in a slow oven till crisp through and a 
orown color. Serve with butter and cheese. 


MILK, CREAM, CREAM-CHEESE, CUSTARD. 


r.—Curded Milk. 


Boil one quart of new milk and let it cool sufficiently for 
the cream to be taken off ; rinse an earthen jar we// with but- 
termilk, and before the boiled milk cools pour it in and add 
the cream which was taken off it genfly on the top. Let it 
remain 24 hours (or 12 in very hot weather) ; turn it out into 
a deep dish, mix with pounded sugar, and serve with or with- 
out cream. The milk by this process becomes a very soft 
curd, slightly acid, and is a most refreshing and wholesome 
dish in hot weather. It can also be eaten with stewed 
fruit. 


2.—Devonshire Cream. 


Strain the milk into large shallow pans ; let it stand twelve 
hours, Carry the pans carefully and put them near the fire; 
leave them there till the milk is scalding hot but it must oa 
no account either simmer or boil. When it is ready, rings 
and small bubbles of air appear on the surface. Carry it 
back to the dairy and leave it there twelve hours more. But- 
ter made of this cream is excellent and merely requires to be 
beaten with the hand in a shallow wooden tub, which is the 
usual method of making butter in Devonshire. 


3.—Rennet, for making Curds. 
Essence of Rennet can be purchased at a Chemists, but 


MILK, CREAM, CREAM-CHEESE, CUSTARD. - 229 


in case there is none at hand, rennet can be prepared in the 
following manner : 

Take the stomach of a fresh killed calf (we have heard 
that a kid will answer as well); scour it well with water, in- 
side and out; stretch it out to dry on strong wooden skewers ; 
it should be hung in the corner of the kitchen near the fire 
in a paper bag, and portions cut off as it is wanted. 


4.——Curds and Whey. 


Cut off a small piece of rennet, put it in a teacupful of 
water and soak for two hours ; put a quart of warm new milk 
in a dish with one dessertspoonful of the rennet liquor out of 
the cup, and keep it in a warm place until the curd se- 
parates from the whey. Serve with powdered white sugar, and 
Devonshire, or other cream. 

There are china moulds. made on purpose for curds with 
little holes in them, which are best for setting the curds in. 


5.—Devonshire Junket. 


Prepare the curds and whey as above, sweeten and cover 
with cream. 


6.—Cream Curds. 


Mix the cream and eggs well together; put the water with 
Ingredients, a little salt in it to boil on the fire ; 
1 quart of cream . . . . 
6 eggs when it boils put in the vinegar or 
t water ° . ° 

Some salt buttermilk ; then stir in the eggs 

1 tablespoonful of vinegar, or . 
1 pint of thick sour butter- and cream, and as the curd rises 
sprinkle a little cold water on it 
with your hand. When it stops rising take it off the fire ; let 


it stand for a little while; lay a wet cloth over a wire sieve; 


230 DAINTY DISHES FOR INDIAN TABLES. 


skim off the curds and lay them on it; put them in a cool 
place ; next day turn out on a dish.and serve with powdered 
sugar. 


7.—Curds and Cream, without Rennet. 


Put two quarts of the previous day’s milk (unskimmed) 
into a cool oven, and let it remain until a fine curd is formed; 
take it out, set it to cool, and when quite cold strain it 
through muslin; tie it up tight and put it under a heavy 
weight to press out the whey ; let it remain two hours. Two 
hours before it is required put it on a dish and pour three 
quarters of a pint of good sweet cream over it. Powder with. 
sugar and serve. 


Note.—This is a very nice accompaniment to fruit of any kind. 


8.—Cream Cheese. 


Skim one pint of thick cream; let it stand twelve hours ; 
add a little salt; dip a napkin in salt and water, fold it four 
times, pour the cream into it and hang it up for twelve hours 
to drain. Lay it on a plate ; cover it with nettles or vine 
leaves; lay another plate on the top; it will be ready to cut 
next day. It may also be made in the morning and eaten 
in the evening, but in that case put no nettles on it, and serve 
as soon as it 1s made. 


9.—Another Cream Cheese. 


Let twelve quarts of milk stand two days, or until it is quite 
thick; skim it, dip a linen cloth in salt and water; tie the 
cream up In it and hang It up to drain. When it has done 
dripping, put the cheese in a soup plate with a clean wet 
cloth under it, so arranged that you can turn the cheese from 


MILK, CREAM, CREAM-CHEESE, CUSTARD. 231 


time to time till it dries ; then put it on another plate, cover it 
with nettles, put a plate on the top, leave it six or twelve hours, 
and use. 


10.—Another Cream Cheese. 


Dip a linen cloth in salt water ; lay it in a square shape on 
a plate ; pour’ in the thickest cream you have and leave it un- 
touched one day ; then turn it into a dry cloth and puta 
four pound weight upon it ; the next day change the cloth, 
leave it for twelve hours more. Then use. 


Note.—In hot weather it will be well to stand the cream-cheese on ice 
while it is in process of manufacture. 


11.— Custard. 
Let the lemon-peel stand half an hour in the milk, then put 


Ingredients, them on the fire with the sugar ; 
1 pint of new milk . . . 
302. of loaf sugar boil for. three minutes ; take it off 
e rind of half a lemon . 
8 eggs the fire for five minutes. Take out 
Y% pint of good cream 
20 drops of vanilla the lemon-peel; beat the eggs, leav- 


ing out four of the whites ; add the milk to the eggs, stirring 
quickly as you pour it gently in. Put the custard back into a 
small saucepan and stand this in another saucepan half full of 
boiling water; stir over the fire until it begins to thicken; add 
the cream and the vanilla, or the same quantity of essence of 
lemon, or two tablespoonsful of either brandy, maraschino, 
or rum. 


- 12,—Queen’s Custard. 


Beat and strain the eggs; boil the cream and sweeten it 


Ingredients. with the sugar ; add it to the eggs, 
12 new-laid eggs . . 
1% pints of cream stirring quickly; add the salt, 
3 oz. of sugar . . 
1 pinch of salt thicken as above, and flavour with 


a wineglass of noyau, maraschino, or curacao. 


232 DAINTY DISHES FOR INDIAN TABLES. . 


13.—Chocolate Custards. 
Dissolve the chocolate gently in the water by. the side of 


ingredients. the fire; boil it till it is quite 
2 oz. of chocolate . 
% pint of water smooth. Put the lemon-peel in 
1 pint of new milk . 
The peel of half a lemon the milk for half an hour ; add 
oz. of sugar . 
int of cream ik 
Hin ‘cream the milk very gradually to the 


chocolate stirring carefully all the 

time ; add the sugar ; beat and strain the eggs, and when the 
milk is boiling pour it on to them gradually. Strain the mix- 
ture through a fine sieve, and pour it into the cups. Stand 
them in a preserving pan containing about two inches deep 
of boiling water, cover close and strew the cover with hot 
charcoal to prevent steaming inside. Let them boil thus for 
a quarter of an hour. Stand aside till cold ; then serve. 

Note.—lIf you have no large flat preserving pan, put the custard into 2 
jar or jug, set it in a pan of boiling water, and stir it without ceasing 
until it is thick. Do not put it into the glasses or dish till it is cold. 

This can be made into a mould by dissolving half an 
ounce of isinglass in the milk, and essence of coffee, or a 
coffeecup of good strong coffee or tea may be substituted for 
the chocolate. 


PASTRY, TARTS, &c. 


Everything used in making pastry should be delicately 
clean, and the ingredients of the very best kinds. Some 
practice is necessary to accomplish the more delicate sorts, 
but if all the directions are minutely followed, perfection may 
be attained by anyone. In mixing paste, the water should 
be added very gradually, and the whole gently drawn to- 
gether with the fingers, and when it is damp enough it should 
be kneaded till it is as smooth as cream, bearing in mind 
however that the more expeditiously the finer kinds of paste 
are made and despatched to the oven, and the less they are 
touched the better. Thetemperature of the oven is an im- 
portant matter, 1t should be hot enough to raise the paste, 
but not so fierce as to color or burn it before it is done. 
This experience alone teaches. 

When carelessly kneaded, the paste is often covered with — 
small dry lumps and crumbs, or the water is poured in so 
quickly that more than the quantity given in the recipe has 
to be added to make the flour workable; this must be avoid- 
ed by care, or the disproportion in the ingredients will spoil 
the paste. In the hot season ice must be used for the lighter 
kinds of paste. 


1.—Fine French Puff Paste. 


In very hot weather harden the butter in ice, and if neces- 


R2 


234 DAINTY DISHES FOR INDIAN TABLES. 


Ingredients of Fine French P. . 
& pine "euch PUP sary lay the paste between the in- 
t Ib of the fives? flour tervals of rolling on a sheet of tin 
1 ,, »» good fresh butter . . 
2 yolks of exgs over some ice for a few minutes. 
1 small teaspoonful of salt 
About half pint of water Put the flour on a paste-board or 


slab, make a hollow in the centre, break a few small bits of 
butter ; put them in the centre with the salt and yolks of eggs; 
now add about two-thirds of the water, pouring it in the cen- 
tre—zot on the flour. Push in the flour gently from the 
sides until it is all well incorporated, sprinkle a few drops of 
water on it, and work the sponge of paste to and fro on the 
board for two minutes, after which it should be elastic, soft 
and smooth as satin. Now take the butter, press it in a soft 
thin cloth to extract all the moisture there may be remaining 
in it, and form it quickly into a ball. If it is soft from the 
heat, set it on ice for a couple of minutes. When it is ready 
roll the paste out square, big enough to cover the butter well; 
lay on the ball of butter, flatten it down a little with the palm 
of the hand, fold the crust well over it, sprinkle a little but-//, 
., ,4er-on the board and roller and roll it out quickly very thin; 
this is called giving pastry one turn, lay this on a baking 
sheet over ice in the ice-box ; leave it ten minutes; take it 
out; sprinkle the board and rolling pin lightly with flour ; roll 
the paste out as thin as possible ; fold it in thtee ; press the 
folds together by running the rolling pin very lightly across 
it ; turn it round ; roll it out again the reverse way in the same 
manner as before ; fold it in three again; fasten the folds by 
running the rolling pin over them, and set the paste back on 
the ice for eight minutes ; give it two more turns inthe same 
way, rolling it each time very lightly to the full length it will 
reach, always taking great care that the butter shall not break 
through the paste. Set it on the ice again for ten minutes, 


PASTRY, TARTS, &C. 235 


roll it out twice more as before, then give it half a turn by 
folding it once only and it will be ready for use. When 
properly made it will rise during baking from one inch to six 
inches in height, and is used principally in vol-au-vents patties 
and tartlets. 


Note.—The juice of one lemon may be added with the eggs and water. 


2.—English Puff Paste. 


The flour must be very fine and must be carefully dried 


Ingredients. and sifted ; break eight ounces of 
2 Ibs. of flour . . . 
2 ,, ,, butter the butter into it; add a pinch of 
A little salt 
- Some water salt and enough cold water to 


make a paste. Work it quickly and lightly until it is smooth 
and pliable, then level it with the paste roller until it is three 
quarters of an inch thick, and place upon it six ounces of the 
butter broken into small bits, at regular intervals ; fold the 
paste over into the shape of an omelet, roll it out again, lay 
in six ounces more butter ; repeat the rolling, dusting a little 
flour over the board and roller each time ; add six ounces 
more butter, and roll out the paste thin three or four times, 
folding the ends into the middle. 


3.—Very good Light Paste. 


Mix the lard with the flour and make them into a smooth 


Ingredients. paste with cold water; press the 
. of f 
6 o oflard. butter in a clean cloth and make 
IO 4959 butter ee : . ee 
A little salt it into a ball by twisting the cloth 


round it. Roll out the paste, put in the ball of butter, close 
it like an apple dumpling, and roll it lightly until it is less 
than an inch thick, fold the ends into the middle, dust a lit- 
tle flour over the board and roller, and roll the paste thin a 


236 DAINTY DISHES FOR INDIAN TABLES. 


second time ; set it aside for a few minutes on ice or in a cool 
place ; roll it out, fold it over; roll again; do this twice; lay 
it on the ice again; roll it out twice more, folding it each 
time in three. Then use it at once for whatever purpose you 
need it. If it is allowed to lie before baking it will be tough 
and heavy. 


4-—Common Suet Crust for Pies. 


Chop the suet very small and add it to the flour with the 
Ingredients. “mi ; 

sthothe salt ; mix these with cold water 

12 or 16 oz. of beef or kidney toa firm paste and work it very 


suet 
Salt : for fruit pies % teaspoon- m ' 
ful ; for meat pies 1 teaspoon- s ‘oth. Roll it out and use as re- 
ful quired. 


5—Excellent Suet Crust. 
Strip the skin off some fresh veal and kidney suet; chop 


Ingredients. it; put it in a mortar with the but- 
1 Ib. of flour t d d 
1 lb. of suet er, an ° 
4 oz. of butter (or oil) , poun perf ectly smooth , 
1 saltspoonful of salt then use it for making the crust in 


the same way the butter is used in making puff paste (see re- 
cipe), and it will form an excellent substitute for ot pies or 
crusts. 


Note.—For a short crust, use eight ounces of suet, two ounces of 
butter, and half a saltspoonful of salt. 


6.—Very rich Short Crust for Tarts. 
Crumble the butter very lightly into the flour, breaking it 


Ingredients, 1 1 

4 quite small. Mix well; add the 
8 oz. of butter 

¥% Ib. of flour salt and sugar, and by degrees 
inet sited h milk to make i 

2 oz. of sifted sugar enougn milk to 1 

2 oz. of sifted sug g make it into a very 


smooth stiffpaste. Bake it slowly 


PASTRY, TARTS, XC. 237 


and do not let it get colored. It is a most excellent crust 
and will rise well if properly made. 


7.—Cream Crust. 


Stir the salt into the flour and mix the cream gradually 


Ingredients. with it so as to form a smooth 
x lb. of flour (dried and sifted) . 
x small teaspoonful of salt paste ; give the paste a couple of 
¥% pint of rich cream* . . 
6 oz. of butter turns, put the butter in the mid- 


* Fora less rich crust 4 ounces le, fold the paste over it, roll it 
of butter, and half a pint of 


cream will suffice out, uSe it for fruit tarts, puffs, or 
good meat pies. 


8—French Crust, for hot or cold Meat Pies. 
The flour must be dried and sifted, break the butter into 


Ingredients. little bits and work it into the 
Ibs. of flour . ty ee 
7M Tb of butter flour with the fingers until it is 
1 small teaspoonful of salt . 
The yolks of 4 eggs like fine crumbs of bread; add the 


int of wat i 
% pint of water salt ; beat the eggs with the water ; 


strain it ; add it by degrees to the flour and make into a firm 
paste until it is perfectly smooth. Roll out and use as re- 
quired. 


9.—Vol-au-Vent. 


Prepare some puff paste (see recipe for French or English 
puff paste) ; roll it out one and a quarter inches thick ; cut it 
into the right shape with a round tin cutter about six inches 
in diameter, pressing it down quickly and firmly so as to take 
off the raw edges; press another cutter, one inch smaller, 
gently down on the paste, so as to make a round mark inside 
the edge of the vol-au-vent, about half an inch deep; egg it 
over with white of egg if fora sweet dish ; brush it over with 


238 DAINTY DISHES FOR INDIAN TABLES. 


yolk of egg if for an extrée ; put it on a baking tin and put 
immediately into a brisk oven that it may rise but not be 
scorched. Take it out, insert the point of a knife in the mark 
made with the smaller cutter, and lift out the cover which 
will come out quite easily. Scoop out all the soft unbaked 
crumbs from underneath, and turn it out on a sheet of white 
paper to drain. If for an entrée, fill and use at once as 
directed (see recipe) ; if for a sweet dish, sift some white 
sugar over, and glaze by holding a salamander or red-hot 
shovel over it when it is drawn from the oven; lay it on a 
sheet of white paper to drain and cool; fill it either with a 
rich marmalade of apples, or stewed fruit or peaches, green- 
gages, apricots or plums, compotes, (see recipes), or any kind 
of bottled fruit, and heap well-whipped rich cream over the 
fruit. 
This, if well made, is a most delicious dish. 


10.—Puff Paste Patties, or Vols-au-Vents. 


Prepare the puff paste (see recipe), let it rest on ice for 
three minutes (in hot weather) and cut out with a plain patty 
cutter (the cover of a cornflour tin will do) just dipped in 
hot water as many patties as you require ; moisten a baking 
sheet or tin with a brush dipped in water, press down each 
patty in its place, brush over the surface with yolk of egg, and 
with another cutter, smaller than the first one, dipped in hot 
water, make an incision round the centre of the patties ; push 
the sheet into a brisk oven and bake about twenty minutes 
until well risen but not scorched ; lift out the centre with a 
sharp pointed knife; scoop out the loose unbaked crumb 
from the inside and fill with any kind of white mincd-meat 
or fish, prepared with white sauce according to recipes, or 


PASTRY, TARTS, XC, 239 


with mushroom, lobster, oyster, or shrimp-sauce (see recipes) ; 
put on the covers, or cover with fried bread-crumbs, and 
serve at once. 

If the patties are wanted for tartlets, sprinkle them with 
white powered sugar, and glaze with a salamander as you 
take them out of the oven, and set them on a sheet of white 
paper to drain and cool. Fill with any kind of jam or jelly, 
or put a preserved plum, greengage or peach in each, and if 
you like a spoonful of whipped cream, very stiff, on the top. 


11.—Bread and Butter Pastry. 


Prepare some puff paste (see recipe) (using half the quanti- 
ties given) and roll it out a quarter of an inch thick ; cut into 
bands three inches wide, and then again into strips half an 
inch wide, and place them on a baking tin in rows about 
two inches apart. Bake in a sharp oven, and just before 
they are done, sprinkle with white sugar and hold a red hot 
salamander over them to glaze them; spread with jam and 
lay together like bread and butter jam sandwiches; dish on 
a napkin, or lay round a dish with some rich whipped cream 
in the centre. 


12.—Polish Puffs. 


Prepare the puff paste (see recipe) ; roll it out very thin (a 
quarter of an inch) ; cut it up into square pieces about two 
and a half inches square; wet the centre and turn in the 
four corners so that they meet in the middle; place a dot of 
paste in the centre, pressing it down with the finger; egg 
over and bake in a quick oven, a fine bright light color ; just 
before they are done sift over some finely powdered white 
sugar, pass a red hot salamander over to glaze them, and 
decorate with apple, currant or quince jelly. 


240 DAINTY DISHES FOR INDIAN TABLES. 


13.—Plaits. 

Prepare some puff paste (see recipe), giving it nine turns 
instead of six and half; roll it out orre-eighth of an inch thick 
and cut it into bands five inches wide; divide these into 
narrow strips a quarter of an inch wide; take four of these 
strips, lay them over one another at one end with a little 
white of egg or water between each to fasten them ; plait 
loosely but neatly together ; when finished fasten the ends in 
the same way. As each plait is ready, place it on the baking 
sheet, brush over with white of egg and bake a light color; 
glaze with powdered white sugar, salamander, and decorate 
with jelly or greengage jam. 


14.—Pastry or Almond Paste Sandwiches. 


Take some puff or almond paste (see recipes), divide it 
Ingredients. in two and roll it out square and 
Any Pily or jam as thin as possible; butter a tin 
well, lay one-half of the paste on it and spread lightly with 
jelly ; lay the remaining half closely over; press a little 
with the rolling-pin to make it adhere well. Mark it in 
divisions, and bake from fifteen to twenty minutes in a 
moderate oven. 


15. -Lemon Sandwiches. 


These are made as above, only substituting lemon or 
orange cheese-cake mixture (see recipes) for the jelly. 


16.— Meringue Tart. 


Lay a band of fine crust (see short crust for Tarts) round 
Ingredients. the edge of a Tart dish; fill the 


Some pastry (sce recipe) . . . . 
Some stewed fruit dish with any kind of fruit (fresh 


PASTRY, TARTS, &C. 241 


ingredients of Merginue Tart. oy bottled) with half their weight 
Three rablecpoonsfaieer sifted Of sugar; roll out the remainder 
ones of the paste very evenly; brush 
the edges with water, lay it over the fruit, press round the 
edge of the dish with the thumb, and trim off the edges close 
to the dish with a knife; make an incision at each end to let 
the steam escape. Beat the whites of the eggs to a stff froth, 
stir the sugar in gently and quickly, pile this up on the tart. 
Put it into a moderately brisk oven, and when the crust has 
risen well and the ring is set, either lay a sheet of writing- 
paper lightly over it, or put it in a part of the oven where it 
will not be too much colored. It should be faintly tinted 
a golden color. 


17.—Apple Tart. 


Lay a band of the paste round the edge of the Tart 


Ingredients. dish ; pare and core the apples; 
1% ibs. of apples 


Some English puff paste (sce weigh them ; dip them in water 


recipe) . 
4 0z. of pounded sugar and lay them compactly in the 
The grated rind and strained . : . 

juice of a lemon Tart dish, higher in the centre 
2 cloves 


than at the sides ; add the sugar, 
lemon-rind, juice and cloves. Cover over with the remain- 
der of the paste rolled out thin; press round the edges, 
pare with a knife round the dish; ten minutes before it is 
done (it will take about one hour), brush over with white of 
egg well beaten and sift loaf sugar over that. Serve with 
custard (see recipe) or whipped cream. 
Note.—Any kind of fruit may be substituted for apples using rather 


more than half their weight of sugar. 
18.— Mince-meat. 
Wash the currants, pick and well dry them; chop one 


¥2 


242 DAINTY DISHES FOR INDIAN TABLES. 


Ingredients of Mincemeat. pound of them; stone and chop 
2 Ibs. of currants oe ° ° 
2 4, 4, raisins the raisins; mix them with all 


el 
IT 55 95 fresh beef suet . 
, 49 the undercut of well together, then stir in the 


* sirloin of beef (roasted), 


yo? ixed died H 7 1 
M mixed randie \y the ingredients except the brandy 
a 
J°9 


or fillet of veal brandy ; put the meat into stone 
The grated rinds and strain- . . . 
ed juice of 2 lemons jars, tie over with a bladder and 
I orange 
1} lbs. of moist sugar i H 
x nutmeg, grated keep in a dry cool place till 
43 teaspoonful of powdered needed. Mince-meat should not 
4% saltspoonful of powdered be used for six weeks after it has 
spoonful of cl . 
rpintof brandy ~—S*« een. maadée,, and will keep a year. 


Note.—One pound of unsalted ox-tongue fresh boiled and cut tree 
from the rind may be substituted for the roast beef. 


19.—Mince Pies. 

Butter some patty pans weil, and line them with some 
puff paste (see recipe) rolled thin; fill them with mince- 
meat (about two tablespoonsful to each), moisten the edges 
with water, close carefully with the remainder of the paste, 
trim carefully, make a small hole in the centre, and bake 
in a moderately heated oven for twenty-five or thirty mi- 
nutes. If when they are partially done they seem to take 
too much color, lay a paper over them. 


20.—Mince Pies, with Egg Icing. 
Add the sugar, lemon-rind and juice, butter and yolks of 


Ingredients. eggs to the mince-meat; beat 

¥% Ib. of mince-meat . 
7. on. of pounded sugar well together. Line some patty 
The grated rind and strained ; 

juice ofrlemon pans with the paste; put them 
Some fine paste (see recipes) . 
4 tablespoonsful of pounded into a moderate oven, and when 

sugar 


the insides are just set, ice thick- 
ly with the whites of eggs whipped to a stiff froth and mixed 


PASTRY, TARTS, &C. 243 


quickly with four tablespoonsful of sugar; set immediately 
in the oven again and bake slowly a fine light brown. 


21.—Cheese Cakes. 


Line some tartlet tins or patty pans with fine puff paste 
(see recipe and use half the quantities) rolled very thin; 
fill them with any of the following mixtures; ornament 
with narrow strips of paste laid on in cross-bars or with 
pastry leaves tastefully arranged, and bake in a moderate 
oven half an hour. 


22.—Lemon Cheese Cake mixture. 


Dissolve the sugar in the lemon-juice (strained) and the 


Ingredients. - brandy ; stir in the butter until 
x Ib. of loaf sugar . Le 
3 large lemons dissolved but not oiled ; add the 
tablespoonsful of brandy . 
¥ Ib. of fresh butter lemon-rind (grated), the yolks of 
eggs 


all the eggs, and the whites of 
four, well beaten ; stir rapidly over a gentle fire till the mix- 
ture is of the consistency of honey. Put it in a jar, and 
when cold, tie it over with thick writing-paper, and keep in 
a cool place. 


23.—_Orange Cheese Cake mixture. 
Strain the juice of the oranges and lemons into the milk, 


Ingredients. and put it into a gentle oven until 
4 oranges . . 
2 lemons a solid curd 1s formed; when cold 
2 quarts of milk . 
% Ibs. of fine new honey strain off the whey; pound the 
The yolks of eight eggs . 
6 a2: of fresh butter curd with the honey; add the 
¥% of a nutmeg . 
1 wineglassful of brandy grated rind of two of the oranges, 


the yolks (beaten), the butter (beaten to a cream), the nut- 
meg and brandy; beat the mixture until it becomes of the 


244 DAINTY DISHES FOR INDIAN TABLES. 


consistency of thick cream; put it into a jar, tie it down, and 
keep it in a cool place. 


24,——Almond Cheese Cake mixture. 


Blanch the almonds; dissolve the sugar, butter and ratafia; 


Ingredients. mix together, and stir till cold, 
Y% tb. of sweet almonds 
% ., ,, loaf sugar but not set; pound the almonds 
6 oz. of fresh butter 
2 tablespoonsful of ratafia to a soft paste, add them to the 


The yolks of 6 eggs (beaten) . . 
other ingredients, beat the eggs 


and stir together over a gentle fire; when the mixture begins 
to thicken, take it off and rub it through a fine sieve; put it 
in a jar, and when cool tie it down and keep it in a cool 
place. 


25.—Common Lemon Tartlets. 
Beat the eggs until they are very light; add the sugar to 


Ingredients. them gradually; whisk together 
4 eggs . . 
4 one of pounded sugar for five minutes; strew in the 
1 dessertspoonful of cornflour . . 
3 oz. of butter cornflour lightly; dissolve the 


1% large lemon 


butter, and when. it is Zusewarm 
add it to the mixture; beat the whole well, add the lemon- 
juice, strained, and the rind, grated. Line some patty pans 
with fine puff paste (see recipes) rolled very thin, fill them 
two-thirds full with the mixture, and bake about twenty 
minutes in a moderate oven. 

Note.—A few macaroons or ratafias powdered may be substituted. 


26.—Pastry Cream. 
Beat the yolks of the eggs, add them to the flour; boil 


Ingredients. the cream, stir it to the eggs and 
1 oz. of flour a 
2 yolks of eggs flour very gradually; put it into 


¥% pint of cream 


1% oz. of butter, (clarified) another stewpan, and stir it over 


PASTRY, TARTS, &C. 245 


Ingredients of PastryCream. a gentle fire until it is quite thick; 

2 oz. of white sugar . . 

Some rasped lemon-rind take it off and stir well, up and 
1% oz, of ratafias . 

round; replace it on the fire and 

simmer from six to eight minutes; pour it into a basin; add 
the sugar, butter, and a lump of sugar rubbed on a lemon 
and pounded, and the ratafias crushed to powder with a 
paste-roller. Make some small vol-au-vents (see puff paste 
patties). When they are ready glaze the edges by sifting fine 
sugar thickly over them and holding a red-hot salamander 
or shovel over them until the sugar melts and forms a pale 
barley-sugar glaze. Have the pastry cream ready, hot ; fill 
the vol-au-vents with it, and send to table at once. 


27.—Jelly Tartlets or Custards. 


Put the jelly into a basin, stir the beaten eggs in gra- 


Ingredients, dually. Line some tartlet pans 
4 tablespoonsful of fine fruit oa aye : 
- jelly with thin puff paste (see recipes) ; 
12 beaten eggs 


fill them with the custard, and 
bake ten minutes. 


28.—Strawberry Tartlets. 


Take off the stalks of the strawberries and crush them; 


___ Angredients. mix them with the sugar; stir in 

uy pint of fresh Strawberries th by d beat 1 
214 oz. of powdered sugar e eggs egrees ; Deal well; 
4 eggs (well whisked) 88 y 8 ? ? 


line some patty pans with fine 
paste (see recipes) ; fill three parts full with the mixture, and 
bake from ten to twelve minutes. 


SWEET OMELETS, SOUFFLES, FRITTERS, 
AND PANCAKES. 


x1.—Omelet with Preserve. 
Beat all the yolks of the eggs with four of the whites; 


Ingredients. add the cream; dissolve the but- 
7 of ° 
. 3 tatlespoonsful ofthick — ter in a small omelet pan over 
cream 
1 oz of fresh butter a very slow fire ; pour in the eggs 


Some jam or marmalade 


and stir quickly until they begin 
to set; let them continue over a very slow heat for three 
minutes; lay the preserve over the upper side; fold over 
the omelet; dredge with finely powdered sugar; passa 
red-hot salamander or shovel over the sugar to glaze it, 
serve instantly. 


2.—Sweet Omelet. 


Follow the preceding recipe, adding to the eggs while 
beating them the grated rind of half a lemon with its strain- 
ed juice, and two tablespoonsful of loaf sugar. Serve as 
directed, omitting the jam. 


3.—Potato Omelet. 
Beat the eggs separately, and all the other ingredients 


Ingredients. together ; then add the eggs and 
f l tatoes, boil- 
3 dand mashed beat for a quarter of an hour; fry 


f loaf 
2 oz. of loaf sugar in a small omelet pan till of a 


SWEET OMELETS, SOUFFLES, FRITTERS, & PANCAKES. 247 


Ingredients of Potato Omelet. golden color. Serve either plain 
% of a saltspoonful of powdered 


cinnamon _ with sifted sugar, glazed with a 
The strained juice of 2 oranges . 
% pint of new milk salamander, or with preserve. 


3 fresh eggs 


4.—Omelet Souffle. 


Break the eggs and put the yolks into one basin and the 
Ingredients. whites into another; add to the 
1o eggs . 
5 02 oe very finely pounded yolks the sugar, lemon-rind, and 
The grated rind of halfalemon vanilla ; beat fast for ten minutes; 
20 drops of essence of vanilla . . 
| beat the whites to a stiff froth ; 
add them to the yolks, &c., and continue to beat for ten 
minutes. Put the mixture into a soufflé dish, or into a plain 
round cake mould, well buttered ; bake instantly in a very 
quick oven for twelve minutes ; sift loaf sugar over the top; 
roll a napkin round the tin, and serve at once, holding a hot 
salamander over it till it reaches the dining-room to prevent 


its falling in. 


5.—Rice Flour Souffle. 


Mix the rice to a perfectly smooth batter with a little of 


Ingredients. the milk or cream ; put the remain- 
13 pints of new milk or cream ° 
4 02, of flour of rice der into a very clean saucepan; 
2 ,, ,, fresh butter : : . . . 
2% |, ,, pounded sugar when it boils stir in the rice ; szm- 
6 eggs . oe . 
7 pinch of salt mer for ten minutes, stirring it all 


The rind of 1 lemon 


the time (it must be very thick); 
then mix in the butter, sugar, and lemon-rind ; stir for three 
minutes ; take the saucepan off the fire, beat in the yolks of 
the eggs carefully and by degrees; whisk the whites to a firm 
froth ; butter the pan, and when all is ready for the oven, stir 
the whites in gently to the other ingredients ; pour imme- 


248 DAINTY DISHES FOR INDIAN TABLES. 


diately into the soufflé pan or mould (buttered), and put into 
the oven. It will take about thirty minutes in a slow oven, 
but it is impossible to tell exactly ; when it has risen very 
high and is a fine golden brown color it will be ready. Serve 
at once, and hold a hot salamander over it till it reaches the 
dining-room. 

Note.—The soufflé may be flavoured with vanilla or orange flowers, and 


arrowroot, tapioca, sago, or any other farinaceous substances may be 
used instead of rice-flour. 


6.—Potato-flour Souffle. 


Pare off the rind in the thinnest possible strips and _ infuse 


Ingredients. It in the cream by the side of the 
The rind of half a citron or ofan . 
orange fire ; blend the potato-flour with 
2% oz. of sugar : 
r pint of cream the milk ; take the lemon-peel out 
2 oz. of tato-flour eee , 
Y pint of milk of the cream; boil it and stir it 
The yolks of 7 eggs a . . . 
1 pinch of salt boiling into the milk; stir the 


mixture in a large basin until it thickens ; add the salt, butter 
(just dissolved in a small saucepan) and the sugar. Beat the 
yolks, stir them into the mixture by degrees ; beat the whites 
to a stiff froth, and stir gev¢ly in ; fill the soufflé pan or mould 
(buttered) less than half full ; set it instantly in a gentle oven; 
close the door and do not open it for fifteen minutes ; in 
about thirty minutes the soufflé will be ready ; serve at once. 


7—Coffee Souffle. 


Blend the flour to a perfectly smooth batter with some of 


Ingredients. the cream. Put the remainder of 

6 oz. of flour (plain, potato, or . 

rice) the cream with thé sugar, salt, 
Io oz. of sugar . . 
1 pinch of salt butter (just dissolved), and coffee 
2 oz. of butter . . . 
4 pint of strong coffee into a saucepan; when it bolls, 

> 9, Cream 


6 eggs stir in the flour; simmer for ten 


SWEET OMELETS, SOUFFLES, FRITTERS, & PANCAKES. , 249 


minutes stirring all the time; beat the yolks ; stir them into 
the mixture off the fire; whisk the whites to a stiff froth; 
butter the pan, and when all is ready, add the whites gently; 
‘put the mixture into the pan, ahd bake instantly in a gentle 
oven for about thirty or forty minutes. Serve af once. = 


Note.—Chocolate soufflés are made as above, substituting four ounces 
of chocolate and half a pint of milk for the coffee. 


8.—Fruit Souffle. 


Take the stones out of the apricots; put them in a stew- 


Ingredients. pan with the sugar and water; 
1 dozen ripe apricots . oe . 
¥ Ib. of sugar boil, stirring with a wooden spoon 
pint of water . °, ° 
4 02. of flour until the fruit is dissolved; rub 
2 5p o) DU . ° 
1 pint of cream through a sieve; then mix the 


6 eggs . : 
fruit with the flour, butter and 


cream; stir over the fire till it is nice and thick; add the 
yolks of the eggs beaten ; mix gently; beat the whites to a 
stiff froth; stir in as, lightly as possible; turn into a soufflé 
dish and bake instantly; it will take thirty or forty minutes 
in a gentle oven. 


Note.—Any other fruit may be used in the same way. 


9.—Brown Bread Souffle. 


Prepare as for potato-flour soufflé, using two ounces of 
grated and sifted brown bread-crumbs instead of the flour, 
and one ounce of picked and washed currants. 


10.—Cream Souffle. 
Mix the flour smoothly with some of the cream; add the 


. G2 


DAINTY DISHES FOR INDIAN TABLES. 


jents of Cream Soufié. maraschino and three yolks; 
espoonsful of flour well; put in the cream ; bea 

oo” »» maraschino . 
x pint of cream whites of the four eggs to a 
froth, and stir them in; bake in a small tin or paper- 


sift pounded sugar over, and serve. 


11.—Souffle Pudding. 
Blend the ground rice with a little of the milk till 


Ingredients. quite smooth; put the milk o 

oz. of ground rice (or arrow- . . ° ° 

3 root or tapioca) fire with the vanilla stick i 
4 0z. of powdered sugar . oe . 

2 ns Patter simmer till it boils; take ou 


I stick of vanilla or 20 dropsof vanilla and pour the milk 
essence of vanilla 
% pint of milk or cream, orboth the flour ; add the butter (sti 
well; then the sugar; then 
yolks of eggs (well beaten). Butter a mould, tie but 
paper round it reaching about six inches above the mc 
add the whites of eggs beaten to a stiff froth; pour the 
ture izstantly into the mould, and steam for an hour. 
you have not a proper steamer put a saucer upside dow 
a large saucepan, stand the mould on it; the water in 
saucepan (which should be boiling when you put in the 
ding) must reach about half-way up the mould. Serv 
once with the following sauce poured over. 
Note.—This is a most delicious pudding, and strawberry or raspt 
cream (see recipe) may be substituted for the strawberry sauce. 


12.—Strawberry Sauce. 


Pass the strawberry jam through a hair sieve ; put it i 
Ingredients. a bain marie (that is, a sauce} 

‘ pot of strawberry jam . 
r tablespoonful of “powdered in another larger one half fil 


loafsugar . eye . 
with boiling water) with the sug 


SWEET OMELETS, SOUFFLES, FRITTERS, & PANCAKES. 251 


Ingredients of Strawberry Sauce. add the sherry colored with the 
d ful of sherry 
. with two " drops of good cochineal. Let it get thoroughly 
cochineal in it . 
hot, and then pour it over the 
pudding. 

Note. —Great care should be taken to get really good pure cochineal. 
[t is a magnificent color, and a couple of drops of it are more effective 

than twenty of the stuff ordinarily sold. It is perfectly harmless. 


13.— Pancakes. 


Beat the eggs ; stir in the flour till you have a smooth 
fresh og Ingredients. paste ; add the milk; beat witha 
3 tablespeonsful of dried flour 7#0oden spoon for fifteen minutes ; 
or cornflour . 
3% of a pint of new milk stand the batter ina cool place 
4 oz, of butter or olive oil . 
for two hours ; beat again and fry 
in butter (one ounce for each pancake) till of a pale brown 
color on each side; shake the pan to keep the pancake 
loose, and turn it by tossing it up so that it comes down on 
the other side ; four minutes for each. side will be enough. 
Serve at once either plain, with sugar and lemon separate, 
or with apricot jam laid inside and the sides folded over. 
Note.—Served with rich raspberry or strawberry cream (see recipe) 
i a separate dish, these form a most delicious sweet enfremets. 


14.— Light French Pancakes. 
Beat the yolks ; add the cream and the butter broken up 


Ingredients. Into small pieces and mixed with 
7 eggs 
3g pint of cream the flour; when they are well 
x oz. of butter . . 
3 tablespoonsful of flour mixed, add the whites of the eggs 


eaten to a stiff froth ; mix gently ; fry in a little butter, as 
‘hin as possible ;.do not turn them in the pan, but as they 
tre done turn them out one on the top of the other, sifting 
Buigar between. 


252 DAINTY DISHES FOR INDIAN TABLES. 


15.—Rice Pancakes. 
Boil the rice till quite tender in milk; strain and pound 


Ineredients. it in a mortar; add the cream; 
% tb. of rice . . 
12 of owdered sugar beat the eggs and stir them in; 
pint of cream . 
% 4, 5, milk raix all together, and fry as above. 


16.—A Rich Pancake. 
Whisk the eggs well; add a quarter of the cream and 


Ingredients. strain through a fine sieve ; add 
1 pint of cream oe 
5 SEES the flour gradually; stir in the 
2 0z or nour ° 
‘The rind of one lemon remainder of the cream; beat 
1 lump of loaf sugar . ° . 
2 oz. of pounded sugar with a wooden spoon ; put it aside 
2 4, 5, Clarified butter ; . 
A few powdered ratafias for two hours ; just before using 


rasp the lemon-rind on to the sugar, powder it, add it to 
the batter; mix in the two ounces of sugar, the butter and 
ratafia powder. Put some butter in a small frying pan; 
pour in some of the batter, very thin, just to cover the 
frying pan; do not turn the pancakes; pile on a dish, and 
serve at once, with or without clouted cream. 


17.—French Batter. 
Cut the butter into small pieces; pour rather less than the 


Ingredients. quarter of a pint of boiling water 
Y of a pint of boiling water . to. 
3% of a pint of cold water on to it; when the butter is dis- 
1g ounce of fine dry flour . 
1 pinch of salt solved, add the cold water so that 
The whites of two eggs beaten : ; 
to snow the mixture should not be quite 


as warm as new milk; stir in the flour by degrees so that it is 
very smooth, and add the salt; stand it aside for an hour. Just 
before using, stir in the whites of eggs beaten to a solid froth. 
If the batter seems too thick add a. little cold water before 
mixing in the eggs. This is a very light crisp batter. 


SWEET OMELETS, SOUFFLES, FRITTERS, & PANCAKES. 253 


18.—Frying Batter. 
Mix the flour, butter, salt, and two yolks together with a 


Ingredients. wooden spoon, adding by degrees 
Ib. of fine dry flour . . . 
moe of butter (dissolved) the tepid water ; work it well until 


1 teaspoonful of salt . 
it presents the appearance of 


smooth cream ; set it aside for an 
hour ; just before using stir in the whites of the three eggs 
beaten to a stiff froth ; then use as directed. 


3 eggs 
% rie of tepid water 


Note.—Many varieties of batter may be prepared by adding one 
wineglassful of any white wine or liquor to the tepid water. If the wine 
is very light half a pint may be substituted for the water, and two table- 
spoonsful of good salad oil used instead of the butter. 


19.—Plain Fritters. 
Beat the eggs well; add the milk; strain through a fine 


Ingredients, hair sieve (or any clean cloth). 
3 eggs 
3 tablespoonsful of flour Add them very gradually to the 
A little more than half pint of . 
milk flour, and add as much more milk 


as is needed to bring it to the consistency of cream; stand 
it aside for two hours, then beat thoroughly ; pour it into a 
jug and drop small portions of it into a frying pan with 
boiling butter in it (or lard which is better, if it is very good 
and fresh). When lightly colored on one side turn, drain 
them well as they are lifted out, and serve with powdered 
sugar sifted over them, and lemons. 

Two or three ounces of well washed and dried currants 
may be added to the batter just before using. 


20.—Apple Fritters. 


Prepare the batter as ‘directed in the preceding recipe. 


254 DAINTY DISHES FOR INDIAN TABLES. 


inaredients of Apple Fritters. — Pare the apples; cut them into 


tablespoonsfal of flour slices three quarters of an inch 
a Pint of milk . 
apples thick ; scoop out the core neatly 
3 oz. of sifted sugar . ° 
x lemon by making a round hole in the 


centre of each slice ; lay them in a stewpan with the sugar, 
the strained juice and grated rind of the lemon, and simmer 
(uncovered) for ten minutes ; place them on a plate; pour 
the syrup over them and leave them to absorb the sugar for 
several hours ; then wipe each piece, dip it into the batter 
and fry in butter or oil till of a‘golden color; drain on a sieve 
before the fire ; sift sugar over, and serve on a neatly folded 
napkin. Send to table very hot. 


21.—Orange Fritters. 


Pare three of the oranges; free them entirely from the 


Ingredients. white skin; divide each into 
4 large ripe oranges . . . 
3 oz. of sugar slices ; take out the pips witha 
1 tablespoonful of rum or , . . 
brandy penknife. Dissolve the sugar in 


the juice of the remaining orange and the rum (or brandy), 
boil in a very small saucepan till in a thick syrup, and pour 
- It over the oranges; let them stand for two hours; drain 


on a sieve, dip each in batter, and proceed as in the fore- 
going recipe. 


22.—Peach Fritters. 


Prepare as above, only substituting a glass of noyeau for 
the rum. Apricot fritters are prepared in the same Way. 


23.—Rice Fritters. 
Wash and drain the rice; put it intgas saucepan with 


SWEET OMELETS, SOUFFLES, FRITTERS, & PANCAKES. 255 


Ingredients of Rice Fritters. the sugar, lemon-rind, cinnamon 

3 0z. of guod rice d milk: boil (stirri f t 
»» 9», SUgar and ml ; Ol (Stirrin requent- 

ine thin rind of half a lemon ? ( 8 q 

1_inch of cinnamon ly) for three quarters of an hour ; 

Nearly a pint of milk . . 

3 eggs rub through a fine wire sieve. 


Beat the yolks and white of the eggs separately ; add the 
yolks to the mixture which had passed through the sieve ; 
beat for ten minutes, then add the whites; beat five mi- 
nutes more; then fry in butter (in a small omelet pan) till 
of a golden color on both sides. Drain before the fire, and 
serve on a neatly folded napkin with fine loaf sugar sifted 
over. 


Note.—This is a delicious dish if served with strawberry or rasp- 
berry cream (see recipe) in separate dish. 


24.—Custard Fritters. 
Boil the milk with the cinnamon and lemon; add the 


Ingredients. sugar, flour, salt and eggs; beat 
1 pint of milk 
1 inch of cinnamon well together; butter a mould; 
The thin rind of half a lemon . 
1 oz. of flour pour in the custard and steam 
1 grain of salt me os . 
6 eggs until firm. When it is quite cold 


cut carefully into square pieces; dip each separately in fry- 
ing batter or French batter (see recipes,) and fry separately 
in boiling butter or lard a light golden color. Drain and 
serve very hot with sugar sifted over. 

Any kind of cold custard puddings, such as cabinet, 
ground rice, arrowroot, &c., can be prepared as above. 


25.—Cake and Pudding Fritters. 
Cut a plain pound rice cake, or rich seed cake into small 
square slices. half inch thick; dip them in batter, (see re- 
cipe) and fry as directed in preceding recipes. When they 


256 DAINTY DISHES FOR INDIAN TABLES, - 


are ready spread over a layer of apricot or strawberry jam, 
and serve immediately. 

Cold plum pudding sliced in the same way y and dipped in 
French batter (see recipe) makes a very nice variety of fritter. 


26.—Potato Fritters. 
Boil the potatoes; strain them; mash perfectly smooth 


Ingredients. while hot; add the butter, eggs, 
0z. of potatoes . 
134 ,, ,, butter salt, and lemon-rind; drop small 
3 eggs e e eqe 
3 oz, of sugar portions into boiling butter, and 
The grated rind of one lemon . 
A pinch of salt fry a light golden brown on both 


sides. Sift sugar over and serve with or without red cur. 
rant, apple, or quince jelly on each fritter. 


27.—Lemon Fritters. 
Chop the suet as fine as possible; mix with it the bread- 


Ingredients. cru mbs, sugar, flou r, the 
6 f fine bread- bs . . . 
ton beef suet (lightly whisked), the lemon-rind, 


» powdered sugar 
t ginail tablespoonful of four Cream, and last of all the lemon- 


‘the grated rind of two small juice. Mix well, and fry in butter 


lemons and their juice 


2 dessertspoonsful of cream for five minutes. Serve very hot. 


BOILED AND BAKED PUDDINGS. 


el 


PRELIMINARY REMARKS, 


All the ingredients for Puddings must be fresh and of 
good quality, and it is false economy to try and use inferior 
articles or those which have been long stored. Eggs should 
always be broken into a cup separately before they are used, 
in order that a bad one may be detected and set aside, and 
they should always be strained through a sieve after they 
are beaten. The whites of eggs should be beaten in a deep 
bowl, and it is best to whisk a small quantity either with 
the wire spoons sold for the purpose, or a knife, which is 
better than a fork. While any liquid remains at the bot- 
tom of the bowl they are not sufficiently beaten; when a 
portion of them taken up with the whisk and dropped from 
it remains standing in points, it is ready and should be used 
at once. 

If milk is not perfectly sweet it will curdle in use and 
spoil the pudding, and if it is too quickly baked the milk 
will turn to whey instead of mixing with the eggs in a rich 
custard on the top. It is generally best to pour the milk 
boiling on to the eggs, which must then be beaten together. 

A very little salt improves all sweet puddings and brings 
out their flavour, but its presence must never be perceptible. 

Pudding cloths should be steeped in water the moment 
they are taken off, and dried in the open air after they 
have been well washed. 

G2 


2 58 DAINTY DISHES FOR INDIAN TABLES. 


How TO CLEAN CURRANTS. 


Put them into a cullender (see kitchen utensils) ; strew 
a handful of flour over them; rub gently with the hand 
to separate the lumps and detach the stalks; work them 
round in the cullender; shake it well and the small stalks 
and stones will fall through. Pour plenty of water over the 
currants, drain them and spread them on a clean soft cloth; 
press it over them to absorb the moisture, and leave them 
to dry. When they are perfectly dry take off the remain- 
ing stalks, and any stones which may have remained among 
them. 


To STEAM A PUDDING IN A COMMON SAUCEPAN. 


When the mould is filled, tie it over first with a well 
buttered paper, and then with a small piece of thin muslin 
well floured ; gather up the corners and tie them carefully 
so that no part of the muslin or paper touch the water. 
Put a saucer upside down into a saucepan; pour in enough 
water to cover the saucer to a depth of three inches, and 
when it boils put in the mould, press on the cover of the 
saucepan, and boil gently without ceasing until it is done. 
More boiling water must be added as that in the pan 
evaporates, and it must be poured carefully in without 
touching the pudding. 


1.—A Christmas Plum Pudding. 


Mix the suet, raisins, currants, peel, sugar, lemon-rind, 


Ingredients. cinnamon, cloves, nutmeg, flour, 

Ib. of beef suet, chopped fi . 
fo of ine rast ered’ and bread-crumbs well together; 
lb. Of fresh currants, washed *..° . 

6 oz. of mixed candied peel, add the lemon-juice and brandy; 


chopped . . 
34 Ib. of moist sugar stir for five minutes; add the | 


BOILED AND BAKED PUDDINGS. 259 


Ingredients of a Christmas Plum eggs and milk. Beat the mix- 


ing. 


The grated rind of a large ture with a wooden spoon for 
emon e e e 
1 cayennespoonful of powder- twenty minutes; put it info a 
cinnamon e 

 cayennespoonful of powder- = quart basin or mould well rub- 
¥% of a nutmeg, grated bed with butter; tie it over with 
6 oz. of sifted flour . 
2 oz. of sifted bread-crumbs a clean cloth dredged with flour ; 
The strained juice of one lemon ? 
r she ass of bran itd Wi 

Peete mens y put it into plenty of boiling water 
yj pint of new milk 


and boil fast for six hours; or else 
tie closely in a stout cloth well buttered and floured, lay a 
plate in the bottom of the saucepan to keep the pudding 
from burning, and boil as directed. Serve with either of the 
following sauces, or with German sauce (see recipe). 


2.—Brandy Sauce. 


Knead the butter with the flour and stir it into the boil- 


Ingredients. ing water; add the sugar, sim- 
3 oz. of fresh butter . 
x tablespoonful of baked flour © mer ten minutes; add the brandy, 
% of a pint of boiling water 
I 
P ¢ 


tablespoonful of moist sugar § and serve at once in a tureen. 
claretglass of brandy 


3.—A very rich Sauce. 


Dissolve the sugar in the milk; boil quickly for ten minutes; — 


nee beat the yolks with the cream; 
34 wineglass of new milk add them to the sugar, whisking 
The yolks of four fresh eggs . . . . 
% pint of cream briskly ; continue to whisk until 


1 claretglass of brandy 
smooth; add the brandy ; serve 


instantly. 
4.—An excellent Plum Pudding. 
Mix and beat the ingredients well together in the order in 


Ingredients. which they aie given. Continue 
o fi e 
a of read crumbs to beat with a wooden spoon for 


oki ; 
6 w » beef-kidney suet about twenty minutes ; butter and 


260 DAINTY DISHES FOR INDIAN TABLES. 


Ingredients of Plum Pudding. _ flour well a stout cloth; tie the 
6 oz. of raisins (weighed after 


stoning) pudding up lightly in it; put a 
»y 9) Currants (well washed) . 

4 19 »» minced apples plate in the bottom of a saucepan 
5 »o» ») Sugar eye ° 
2 4 5, candied peel of boiling water, and boil three and 
1% teaspoonful of spice . 
A pinch of salt a half hours. Serve with Punch 
1 sherryglass of brandy ; 
3 eBgs sauce or German sauce (see recipe). 


5.—Punch Sauce. 


Dissolve the. sugar in the water ; add the lemon and orange 


Ingredients. rind ; boil very gently from fifteen 
2 oz. of sugar . . 
¥Y of a pint of water to twenty minutes ; strain out the 
The rind of half a small lemon 


she 3 duatter orange rinds ; thicken the syrup with the 
I oz, of butter 
t teaspoonful (not heaped) of butter and flour; add the brandy, 
our ° 
% glass of brandy wine, rum, lemon, and_ orange 
1» 9) White wine te . 
3 » rum : 
‘ne tuics ea an orange juice ; stir over the fire, but take 
he 4, 1 » asmalllemon = care it does not boil, and serve at 

once very hot. 


6.—Small Plum Pudding. 


Grate the three ounces of bread-crumbs and soak in the 


3 072. of tke edientt of a stale milk. Add all the ingredients in 

H.ofapine tiling mite, ERE Once im wen: they a 
so iiyen scoon for fen ainutes 
p pinch of salt ta ema ne en spoon for fifteen minutes ; 

orange utter and flour a stout cloth ; tie 

3 ites. up the pudding lightly in it; puta 


plate in the bottom of a saucepan of boiling water, put in the 
pudding, and boil for two hours. Serve with Sweet sauce. 


7.—Sweet Sauce. 
Knead the butter and flour together ; stir into the boiling 


-~ 


rs ee | 


BOILED AND BAKED PUDDINGS. 261 


Ineredients of Sweet Sauce. milk ; add the sugar ; boil ten 
1 oz. of butter 


1 tablespoonful of flour minutes ; stir in the cream, and 
¥% of a pint of boiling milk . 
2 tablespoonsful of moist sugar © pour the sauce round the pudding 


2 9 9) Cream 
at once. 


8.—Vegetable Plum Pudding. 


Mix the ingredients well together in the order in which 


Ingredients. they are given ; beat with a 
1 fb. of smoothly mashed 


potatoes wooden spoon for twenty minutes ; 

¥ bof carrots boiled and beaten . 

ne pate flour and butter a. warm pudding 
1 of flour . . . . 
% a 38 suet cloth; tie the pudding up in it 
a 99 99 e 
oy» Currants = closely, and boil for four hours. 
sb acta th Wi 

nu 
pinch of salt Serve with Wine sauce 
2 eggs 


Note.—This pudding is large enough for sixteen persons, so that half 
the ingredients would suffice for an ordinary dinner. It is very cheap 
and is excellent cold. 


9.—Wine Sauce. 


Dissolve the sugar in the water;'add the lemon-rind, and 


Ingredients. boil gently together for ten mi- 
The very thin rind of a small . 
> lemon nutes; take out the lemon-rind ; 
138 oz. of sugar . 
t wineglassful of water knead the butter smoothly with 
1 oz. of butter . 
34 teaspoonful of flour the flour, put it into the syrup, 
144 wineglassful of sherry or . : . 
maceira and stir over the fire for one mi- 


nute; add the wine, heat but do not boil the sauce, and 
serve at once. 

Note.—Port wine sauce is made in the same way, substituting Port 
wine for Sherry, and adding the juice of a lemon or an orange, a little 
grated nutnieg and more sugar, 


10.—Fig Pudding. 
Put the figs and suet into a basin, add the bread-crumbs, 


262 DAINTY DISHES FOR INDIAN TABLES. 


M4 th. of f or eoned fn sugar, yolks, sherry, milk and 
Pe) e e 
Bo su nutmeg. Knead well with the 
4% ,, », powdered loaf sugar 
% . 4, fine bread-crumbs hands so that the figs may be 
yolks of eggs, well beaten . . 
wineglass of sherry well incorporated with the other 
1 teacup of milk . ; 
2 grates of nutmeg ingredients; butter a mould 


thickly, put in the mixture, tie over a piece of well-buttered 
paper, then a well-floured cloth, and steam for four hours. 
Serve with German sauce. 


1z.—German Sauce. 


Put a white jar in a saucepan half filled with boiling 


Ingredients. water over the fire; put in the 
¥% oz, of butter 


3 yolks of eggs ingredients except the sherry and 
1 oz. of powdered sugar . 
A little cream whisk them all together over the 


¥ glass of sherry . . 
fire until the sauce thickens; then 


add the sherry and pour over the pudding. It should be 
well thickened and highly frothed, and is a most delicious 
sauce. 


12.—Cabinet Pudding. 
Boil the sugar in the milk; beat the eggs; add them to 


Ingredients. the milk while it is warm but not 
On Of ake ee ee boiling; let it get cold; then add 
ib Hes we the curacao and cream. Cut 
, Pi clactul of cream the cake into thin pieces; butter 
2 02, of'loaf sugar a quart mould, line it tastefully 


with three ounces of the candied fruit; lay in the cake, 
fruit, ratafias and custard in the order in which they are 
named, until it is quite full. Let it stand for an hour that 
the cake may soak in the custard; then cover it with buttered 


BOILED AND BAKED PUDDINGS. 263 


writing paper, tie a cloth over that, fasten up the ends on 
the top so that they do not touch the water, and steam over 
fast boiling water for an hour anda half. Turn out care- 
fully and serve with the following sauce in the dish. 


13.—Curacao Sauce. 


Boil the sugar and lemon-rind in one wineglassful of 


Ingredients, water; moisten the arrowroot 
oz. of loaf sugar . . 
the rind of half lemon with the remainder of the water 


2 wineglassesful of water . . 
1 dessertspoonful of arrowroot and add it to the sugar; stir over 


eglassful of curacao . 
twp , the fire for three minutes; add 
the curacao ; take out the peel, and serve as directed. 


14,—A very rich Cabinet Pudding. 


Butter a plain quart mould or basin thickly and ornament 


Ingredients. it tastefully with the dried cher- 
oz. of dried cherries . . . ‘ 
Ib. of sponge biscuits ries; cut the sponge biscuits in 
oz. of ra . : ° 

3 pint of thin cream slices, lay them lightly in the 


3 oz. of loaf sugar . . : 
go drops of vannilla or half a pod basin, intermingle the ratafias. 


6 yolks of eggs ° 
2 whites 2? Put the cream into a small sauce- 
1 wineglassful of brandy ; 
pan; add the sugar in lumps and 
the vanilla ; heat and strain this; beat the yolks and whites 
of the eggs well together; pour the cream hot on to them, 
and when the mixture is cold, add the brandy by degrees; 
pour it gently into the mould, cover with butter and paper, 
and steam the pudding very gently for one hour. If it is 
boiled quickly it will be destroyed. Serve with Wine sauce 


(see recipe). 


15.—Pineapple Pudding. 
Rub the stale cake to powder; cut the pineapple into 


264 DAINTY DISHES FOR INDIAN TABLES. 


Ingredients of Pineapple Pudding. quarter inch pieces ; beat the 
6 oz. of stale pound cake 


64 preserved pineapple eggs; mix these ingredients to- 
6 fresh eggs . 

1 o2. of sifted loaf sugar gether ; add the sugar, milk and 
% claretglass of new milk . 
yo, ., cream cream; beat well for fifteen muin- 


utes; butter a mould, put in the mixture, tie it over with 
buttered writing paper, and steam over fast-boiling water for 
one and ahalf hours. Turn out carefully, and serve with the 
following sauce poured round it. 


16.—Pineapple Sauce. 


Put the syrup, jelly, sugar and water into a small sauce 


Ingredients. pan; moisten the arrowroot with 


4 tab\espoonsfal of pineapple a little water; boil the syrup; 


» apple jelly . . . 
1 * ssstoenft of tk white when it boils, add the arrowroot; 


sugar ° ° 
1 wineglassful of cold water stir over the fire two minutes; 
r teaspoonful of arrowrout 
1 tablespoonful of rum add the rum and serve. 


17.—Chestnut Pudding. 


Boil the chestnuts in water till they feel tender; dry 


Ingredients. them in the oven; take off the 
30 chestnuts . 
"4 08. of butter shells and skins and pound the 
3 vy pe sugar ° 
© fresh eggs nuts to powder. To six ounces 


1 gill of new milk 
Some dried cherries or raisins of chestnuts add the butter beat- 


en to a cream, the sugar, eggs and milk. Butter a mould; 
stick it tastefully over with dried cherries; put in the pud- 
ding mixture; butter a piece of writing paper, tie it over the 
pudding, and steam over fast-boiling water for one and a half 
hours; or else bake in a quick oven from twelve to fifteen 
minutes ; turn out carefully, and serve with Victoria sauce 


(see recipe). 


BOILED AND BAKED PUDDINGS. 265, 


18.— Victoria Sauce. 


Dissolve the sugar in the water; boil it to a syrup; beat 


Ingredients. the yolks with the cream, pour in 
3 oz. of loaf sugar 
z_wineglassful of water the brandy; add them to the 
The yolks of three eggs eae . 
1 claretglass of cream syrup, whisking rapidly; serve at 


1 sherryglass of brandy 
once. ‘The sauce should have the 


appearance of thick cream. 


19.—Chestnut Pudding, iced. 


Boil the milk with the sugar and vanilla until well flavour- 


Ingredients. ed; prepare the chestnuts as in 
¥% pint of new milk . . 
% th. of loaf sugar the foregoing recipe, and when 
2 inches of stick vanilla . . 
% bb. of chestnuts in powder they are powdered, moisten with 
t gill of new milk . . . 
7 yolks of eggs the gill of milk; strain the sweet- 


x pint of cream . . . 
ened milk over this, put the mix- 


ture in a saucepan. and stir over the fire until quite smooth; 
beat the yolks, add them and continue to stir for three mi- 
nutes. When nearly cold, add the cream, beat for ten 
minutes ; put the pudding into a one and a half pint mould, 
and stand it on the ice until quite firm, about ten minutes. 


Serve with or without whipped cream round it. 
Note.—Vanilla sugar prepared as directed (see General Directions) can 
be used, and the stick of vanilla omitted. 


- 20.—Baked Chestnut Pudding. 


Put the farina into a stewpan, add the sugar, salt, butter 


Ingredients. and milk; stir this gently over the 

12 oz. of chestnut farina owe . - 
6 ,, ,, pounded sugar fire until it thickens, then stir it 
1 dessertspoonful of vanilla . . 

sugar more quickly until the paste 
1 pinch of salt . 
4 oz. of butter ceases to adhere to the sides of the 
1 pint of milk . 
6 eggs stewpan; take it off the fire; beat: 


the yolks of the eggs; incorporate them with the mixture; 
H2 


266 DAINTY DISHES FOR INDIAN TABLES, 


whip the whites to a firm froth; stir them in gently; butter 
a mould, put in the preparation, place it on a baking sheet, 
and bake in a moderate oven for about an hour. When 
done turn it out carefully and serve with apricot jam round 
it. 


21.—Publisher’s Pudding. 
Blanch all the almonds; beat them to the smoothest 


Ingredients. possible paste in a mortar; bail 

6 oz. of Jordan almonds . 
¥2 bitter almonds the cream, and pour it very gra- 
% of a pint of cream 
¥% pint of almond cream dually over the almonds; tum 
4 oz. of fine bread-crumbs eo . 
4 5» 1» macaroons them into a cloth, twist it strong- 
2 79 99 ou ° e 
5 a: 95 beef suet (minced fine) ly opposite ways, and wring out 
5 5) 5, Marrow (cleaned care- . 

fully from fibre) all the cream. Take a half pint of 


4 oz, of dried cherries 


4 1» stoned muscatel raisins this cream, heat it, and as soon 
009 pounded sugar 


u pint of candied citron as it boils pour it over the bread- 
x pinch of salt 

nutmeg, grated : 1 1 
The grated rind of t lemon crumbs ? cover . it with a plate, 
7 yolks of eggs and leave it till it is nearly cold. 


1 wineglassful of braady _ 
Then mix in the crushed maca- 


roons, the beef suet, the marrow (shredded, not too small), 
and all the other ingredients in the order in which they 
are given, stirring well. Pour the mixture into a thickly 
buttered quart mould or basin, fill it to the brim; lay 
a sheet of buttered paper over, then a well-floured cloth; 
tie them down securely, and boil the pudding for four 
and a quarter hours. Let it stand for two minutes before 
it is turned out, and serve with German sauce, (sé 
recipe). 


Note.—When almonds are objected to they may be omitted, and the 
boiling cream poured at once on the bread-crumbs. In this case two 
ounces of the sugar used had better be vanilla sugar. (See recipe). 


BOILED AND BAKED PUDDINGS. 267 


22.—Lemon Pudding. 


Beat the butter to a cream; add the sugar, rind, lemon- 


Ingredients. juice, Oswego flour, and eggs ; beat 
5 tb. of fresh butter . 
% ,, ,, sifted loaf sugar together for twenty minutes. Have 
The grated rind of two large d ef . 
lemons ready some puii paste, (see reci 
The, strained juice of two 1 y P P ? ( c . pe) 
arge lemons r 
4 tablespoons of Oswego ol it out a quarter of an inch 
esp . . eo. 
6 fret cges thick; line a pie dish with it; 


Ornament to taste; put in the 
pudding, and bake in a quick oven 35 to 40 minutes. Serve 
hot or cold. 


23.—Another Lemon Pudding. 


Rub the rind of three lemons off on some lumps of sugar, 


Ingredients. and put them into a basin with 
The strained juice of 6 lemons . : . 
The rind of 3 lemons all the other ingredients in the 
6 oz. of bruised ratafias . . . 
6 4, 5 sugar order in which they are given. 
I pint of cream 
x0 yolks of eggs Work them together for five 
6 whites, prhipped . th hi 
1 pinch of salt minutes w ; 
x pinch of salt s with a whisk ; have ready 


some puff-paste, line a pie dish 
with it, put a thin border round the edge of the dish ; put in 
the pudding mixture; strew some bruised ratafias over the 
surface, and bake the pudding for about half an hour in a 
quick oven. When ready it should be a light fawn color. 


24.—Lemon Suet Pudding. 


Put all the ingredients into a basin in the order in which 


Ingredients. they are given. th . 
8 oz. of bread-crumbs y 8 ; € €88s being 
6 ,, 5, beef suet well beaten; when they are well 
3% 2 1» pounded sugar . ; 
1 large lemon : 
1 ar ge emo ts mixed pour them into a thickly 
5 €BBs buttered pudding dish and bake 


for an hour in a quick oven. When it is colored a fine brown 


268 DAINTY DISHES FOR INDIAN TABLES.. 
draw it towards the mouth of the oven. Turn it out of the 


dish, and serve with sifted sugar strewed over. 


25.—Ginger Pudding. 


Put the milk, sugar and butter in a stewpan on the fire to 


Ingredients. boil; as soon as the milk - rises, 
1 pint of milk . : ° 
© 07, of sugar withdraw it, and throw if the 
6 ,, ,, butter oe . ° 
¥% tb. of flour flour ; stir it quickly with a wooden 


‘ 6 eggs 


4 cz of, chopped preserved § spoon to mix it well; stir the 
paste over the fire for a few mi- 
nutes until it ceases to adhere to the sides of the pan ; with- 
draw it from the fire; stir in the yolks of the eggs well 
beaten, and the chopped ginger ; when they are well incor- 
porated stir in lightly the whites of the eggs whipped to a 
stiff froth. - Spread a mould thickly with butter, put in the 
pudding, tie over carefully and steam for one and a quarter 
hours. Serve with German sauce (see revipe, flavoured with 
one dessertspoonful of the syrup belonging to the ginger. 


26.—Prince Albert’s Pudding, No. 1. 


Beat the butter to acream; stir in the loaf sugar by de- 


Ingredients. grees ; beat well; add the beaten 
¥% Ib. of fresh butter . 
4 1» 9+ pounded loaf-sugar olks and then the whites of the 
6 fresh eggs y 
% Ib. of dried sifted flour eggs beaten to a stiff froth; strew 
%,, stoned raisins 


The grated rind of one lemon _— jn the flour lightly, add the raisins 
Some slices of candied peel ; 

(weighed after they are stoned); 

mix well. Butter a mould thickly, lay in the slices of can- 

died peel ; put in the pudding; tie a piece of thickly but- 

tered paper and a well-floured cloth tightly over, and boil 

the pudding for three hours. Serve with Punch sauce (se 


recipe.) 


BOILED AND BAKED PUDDINGS, 269 


27.—The Young Wife’s Pudding. 


Break the eggs one by one into a cup, and with the point 


Ingredients. of a fork remove the specks; as 
fresh eggs . oe 
ov oz. of powdered loaf sugar each is done put it into a large 


1 pinch of salt . . 
1 large lemon, ora tablespoon- basin; beat them up lightly for 
ful of lemon-brandy or 


_orange-flour water four or five minutes; add the 
I pint of new milk 
Some 3tale bread sugar by degrees, then the salt; 


Some butter 


whisk well together; add the grat- 
ed lemon-rind and stir briskly. Pour in the milk, cold, and 
pour the pudding into a well buttered dish. Cut the bread 
in slices rather more than a quarter of an inch thick, and with 
a small cutter cut enough rounds to cover the top of the 
pudding. Butter them thickly; lay them on the top of the 
pudding (the dry side uppermost), sift sugar thickly over 
them, and put the dish in a Dutch oven about one foot from 
a moderate fire. Bake very slowly for one hour, and the 
pudding will be firm throughout. If the recipe fails it will 
be because the fire was too hot. 


28.—Mincemeat Pudding. 


Have a rather deep tart dish; cut the roll in slices, spread 


_ Lagredients. thinly with butter, and cover with 
Some slices of French roll . . 
Some butter a thick layer of mincemeat. 


Some mincemeat 


4 eggs | . Cover the bottom of the tart dish 
¥% of a pint of milk 
2 oz. of sugar with these; put a second layer 


1 pinch of salt 
lightly on the top of the first ; 


make a custard with the milk, eggs, sugar and salt. Pour it 
over the bread; let the pudding soak in this for an hour; 
then put it into a gené/e oven, and bake from three quarters 
of an hour to an hour. 


270 . DAINTY DISHES FOR INDIAN TABLES. 


29.—Marmalade Pudding. 
Cut some slices of roll, butter lightly on both sides, and 


Ingredients, spread the top thickly with mar- 
Some roll or light bread 
, orange marmalade malade. Beat the yolks of. tte 
eggs . . ° 
% of a pint of milk eggs separately, add the whites 
2 oz. of sugar well whipped, sprinkle in the 


I tablespoonful of brandy 
sugar, add the milk (or cream). 


Put the custard i in a tart dish, lay the slices of bread and 
marmalade on the top; let it stand an hour; put it in a 
gentle oven, and leave it there till it is set ; take it out at once 
and serve. This is a delicious pudding if properly baked, 
but like all custard puddings it is spoiled if subjected to 
great heat. 


30.—Diplomatic Pudding. 


Put the cream, sugar and lemon-rind into an enamelled 


Ingredients. saucepan and place it over a 
¥% pint of cream _ 
4 oz. of loaf sugar gentle fire; when nearly boiling, 
The grated rind of one lemon . 
6 oz. of bread-crumbs stir in the bread-crumbs, flour, 
I 4, », Hour . 

» 9», beef suet, nd m Ww: r the 
3 ny Peet serow ¢ chopped suet, and arrow ; stir ove th 
25, 4, Muscatel raisins fire for ten minutes; turn into a 
24, », candied orange-peel 
25, 5, Currants ’ 

9 9 Ciitana raisins basin to get cold. Stone and 
5 fresh eggs : ‘Ae . 
ve of a nutines grated mince the raisins; chop the 
1 wineglassiul of§ rum . , 

t,o  orangewine Orange peel; wash and dry the 


currants and Sultana raisins; beat the eggs. Mix these 
ingredients together with the cream ; add the nutmeg, rum 
and orange-wine ; mix all together, and beat for a quarter of 
an hour or longer. Butter a mould thickly; ornament with 
Muscatel raisins to taste; put in the pudding, tie it closely 
over, and steam rapidly for three hours, or bake in a moderate 
oven for two hours. Serve with the following sauce in the 


BOILED AND BAKED PUDDINGS. 


Ingredients of Sauce. 


3. oz. of loaf sugar 
he 


3 


Strained juice of two 
oranges 
tablespoonsful of rum 


rim, and serve. 


271 


dish. Dissolve the loaf sugar in 
the orange-juice ; boil till it be- 
comes a thick syrup; stir in the 


31.— Parisian Pudding. 


Mix the rice with the cream and stir it over a slow fire 


2 
Tt 


Ingredients. 


oz. of ground rice 
pint of good cream 


The yolks of 6 eggs 
The white of 4 eggs 


2 
I 


4 


2 


WH ND DONA 


oz. of beef suet 
>> », beef marrow ; chopped 
sweet apples, peeled and 
cored 
oz. of candied \ 
orange peal, | 
oz. of Oath chopped 
citron, 
oz. of angelica 
oz. of sweet almonds, blanch- 
ed and pounded 
teaspoonful of vanilla 
of a nutmeg, grated 
oz. of apricot Jam 
»» 93 Sultana raisins 
5) 9) rusks, pounded 
wineglassful of maraschino 
oz. of sifted loaf sugar 


until it thickens ; beat the whites 
and yolks separately, and add 
them to the cream while it is 
warm but not hot. Stand this 
aside to get cold; then add the 
remainder of the ingredients in 
the order in which they are given ; 
beat the mixture for a quarter of an 
hour; rub a plain mould thickly 
with butter; put in the pudding; 
cover with writing paper thickly 
buttered, tie a cloth (floured) 


tightly over that, and steam for two anda half hours, or 
bake in a moderate oven for two hours. Turn out carefully, 
and serve with the following sauce in a tureen. 

Beat the yolks; stir in the sugar and marsala; stir over a 


3 
2 


% 
% 


A 
Y¥, 


s 


Ingredients of Sauce. 


yolks of eggs 

oz. of sifted loaf sugar 
pint of marsala 

gill of cream 


slow fire until it thickens ; add the 
cream, stirring it in by degrees. 


Serve immediately. 


32.—Raisin | Pudding. 


Ineredients. 


Ib. of flour ; 
oz. of ground rice 


Mix these ingredients in a basin in the order in which 


they are given; beat with a wooden 
spoon for five minutes; butter a 


272 DAINTY DISHES FOR INDIAN TABLES. 


Ingredients of Raisin Pudding. plain mould thickly ; put in the 


Ib. of beef suet (chopped fine) : . . 
Hon» moist sugar pudding, tie it closely down with 


»», Sultana raisins 
Ane’ strained juice of one lemon a sheet of well buttered paper 
The grated rind of one lemon . 
1 egg (well beaten) and a well floured cloth; bell 
¥Y of a pint of new milk . . ace 
rapidly for three hours in boiling 


water. Serve with sifted sugar on the top. 


33.—A Pudding for a Prince. 


Blanch the almonds; boil them for twenty minutes in 


incredients. the milk; pound them to a paste; 

2 oz. of sweet almonds . . 
6 bitter almonds when the milk is nearly cold add 
15 of a pint of new milk 
5 eres the eggs well beaten, the cream 
1% gill of thick cream : 
2 tablespoonsful of brandy and brandy ; rub the sponge cake 
6 oz. of stale sponge cake 

1» »; Sifted loaf sugar to crumbs; add them tto the 


Some dried cherries 
mixture, and beat for ten minutes, 


then stir in the sugar. Butter a mould; stick it round in 
vandykes (or to taste), with the dried cherries; pour in the 
mixture; tie it over with writing paper, buttered, and steam 
over fast boiling water for 134 hours. Turn out immediately, 
and serve with the following sauce in the dish. 


34.—Cherry Sauce. 


Moisiten the arrowroot with the cold milk, stir it into the 


Ingredients, boiling milk; stir in the sugar; 
1 teaspoonful of arrowroot . : . 
1 tablespoonful of cold milk boil for two minutes. Dissolve 
1 gill of boiling milk 


1 dessertspoonful of sifted loaf the jelly, stir it in by degrees ; 
sugar 


% of alb. pot of cherry jelly(or take it off the fire; continue stit- 
some cherry syrup) ; oo. } 
ring until it is quite smooth, and 


serve as directed. 


Note.—The sauce should be of the consistency of thick cream and 4 


bright rose color. 


BOILED AND BAKED PUDDINGS. 273 


35.-—Clarence Pudding. 


Boil the milk, sugar, vanilla and nutmeg; when the 


Ingredients. sugar is dissolved, set it aside to 
3% pint of new milk 
§ oz. ofloaf sugar _ cool. Beat the eggs, pour the 
¥ of an inch of vanilla . . 
% of a nutmeg, grated milk on to them through a strain- 
5 fresh eggs ; 
2 French rolls er, beating all the time; cut the 
2oz.ofbutter . , . 
% Ib. of Sultana raisins rolls into thin slices, pare off the 


crust, and spread both sides with butter; wash the raisins. 
Butter a plain mould and stick it across with lines of raisins 
meeting in a point at the top ; lay in the bread, butter, raisins, 
and custard in layers till the mould is full; let it stand for an 
hour ; tie it over with a piece of buttered writing paper and 
a cloth dredged with flour ; put it into fast boiling water, and 
boil quickly for 134 hours. Serve with the following sauce 
poured over. 


36.—Vanilla Sauce. 


Boil the sugar and vanilla in one-third of a pint of water 


Ingredients. for twelve minutes; moisten the 
2 oz. of loaf sugar . 
¥% of an inch of vanilla arrowroot with one tablespoonful 
1 dessertspoonful of arrowroot . 
2 tablespoonsful of rum of cold water ; mix them together 


and boil for three minutes; add the rum. Take out the 
vanilla and serve as directed. 


37.—Cocoanut Pudding. 
Make a custard by boiling the sugar in the milk ; beat 


Ingredients. the eggs, pour the milk into them 
¥ of a fine new cocoanut, grated : o1: . 
6 oz. muscatel raisins, stoned while hot but not boiling ; add 
fa Ib. of fresh beef . - 
#0 chopped ~Ssitthee:« cocoanut milk, and stir till 
The strained juice and grated : 
rind of a'small lemon nearly cold. Cut some very thin 
¥% of anutmeg, grated . , 
3 02. of loaf sugar slices of bread (about four ounces) 


\2 


274 DAINTY DISHES FOR INDIAN TABLES. 


Ingredients of Cocoanut Pudding. utter a plain mould and stick it 
¥% pint of new milk 


3 fresh eg with rasins in the form of a cross. 
x tablespronful of cocoanut milk we . . . 
Some stale bread Divide all the ingredients into five 


parts and lay them in the mould in the following order until 
it is full:—Bread, marrow, raisins, cocoanut, lemon-juice, 
lemon-peel, nutmeg, custard ; finish with bread and custard. 
Let it stand to soak for half an hour; tie it over closely and 
boil fast in plenty of water for 3% hours. Turn out carefully 
and serve with the following sauce in the dish. 


38.—Cocoanut Cream. 


Put the sugar into a saucepan with the water; add the 


Ingredients. cinnamon, clove, and lemon-peel, 

oz. of loaf sugar oy neta . . 
: wineglass of water boil till in a thick syrup. Mix the 
x inch of cinnamon : . . 
x clove Oswego with the cocoanut milk; 
2 inches of thin lemon-peel . . . . 
I dessertspoonful of Oswego Strain the syrup into it; boil up 

our e 
2 tablespoonsful of cocoanut for one minute; add _ the cream; 
2 tablespoonsful of cream stir till cold; add the brandy and 
randy . 

5 drops of essence of vanilla vanilla and serve cold. 


39.—Spongecake Pudding. 


Cut the cake into slices a quarter of an inch thick; spread 


if th. of nents. one side with butter and the 

lb. of stale spongecake . . . 

% 02. of butter other with marmalade. Boil the. 

¥% lb. of marmalade | . ° 

2 oF of loaf sugar sugar in the milk; beat the eggs; 
pint of new m . . 

4 fresh eggs add the milk to the eggs while 


hot but not boiling. Butter a plain mould which holds one 
and a half pints ; lay in the slices of cake (with the buttered 
side next the tin) and custard alternately till full. Let it 
stand half an hour to soak ; then bake in a well-heated oven 
for “one hour and ten minutes. Turn out carefully, and 
serve with the following sauce in the dish. é 


BOILED AND BAKED PUDDINGS. 275 


40.—Orange Cream. 


Boil the sugar and orange peel for ten minutes in the water; 


Ingredients. 


2 oz. of loaf sugar 

2 inches of orange peel 
1 sherryglass of water 
1 sweet orange 

1 tablespoonful of rum 
x gill of thick cream 


add the strained juice of the orange 
and the rum; boil fast for three 


_ minutes ; take it off the fire, beat 


in the cream, and continue beating 


until nearly cold. It must be very smooth. Serve as directed. 


41.—Prince Albert’s Pudding, No. 2 
Beat the butter to a cream; add all the other ingredients in 


Ingredients, 
¥% Ib. of butter 
% ,, 5, dried flour 
Y% 4, 4, sifted sugar 
») 1») raisins (stoned and 


chopped 
¥Y% Ib. of candied peel (chopped) 
% re preted ri of brandy 
ated rind of half a lemon 

1 gill of new milk 

4 ten eggs 

3 oz. of sugar 

r winegiassful of water 

I ” », brandy 


the order in which they are given, 
and beat for ten minutes. Butter 
a plain mould, put in the mixture, 
cover with buttered paper and a 
well floured cloth tied over, and 
boil fast for two hours. Boil the 
sugar in the water for ten minutes, 


add the brandy, pour the sauce over the pudding, and serve. 


42.—Marrow Pudding. 


Put all the ingredients into a basin in the order in which 


Ingredients. 
Y tb. of baked flour (or biscuit 
d 


rie 


I Oz. wof sweet almonds, blanch- 


ed and pounded 
The grated rind and strained 
juice of a lemon 
¥% of a nutmeg, grated . 
6 oz. of beef marrow, finely 
chopped ’ 
2 beaten eggs 
XY of a pint of milk 


they are given ; beat the mixture 
for ten minutes ; butter a mould ; 
put in the pudding; tie it over 
firmly with buttered paper and a 
floured cloth ; plunge into fast 
boiling water, and boil fast for 
three hours ; sift loaf sugar on the 
top, and serve. 


Note—Dried cherries, ginger, raisins, or candied peel (chopped 
gall) may be substituted for the currants. 


276 DAINTY DISHES FOR INDIAN TABLES. 


43.—Zandima Pudding. 


Beat the butter to a cream; stir in by degrees the flour 


5 on of sas redients and the yolks of the eggs well 
oz. Of Dutter ° 
6 ,, >, dried flour beaten ; when well mixed add the 
6 ,, », sifted sugar . : 
6 fresh eggs whites of the eggs beaten to a stiff 
x wineglassful of raspberry 

syrup froth and the syrup. Beat for ten 


minutes. Butter a mould, ,pour in the mixture, tie over 
with buttered paper and a cloth, and boil fast for one 
and a half hours, or bake in a moderate oven for one 
and a half hours. Serve with raspberry cream poured over 
the pudding. 


44.—Raspberry Cream for Puddings. 


Ingredients. Whip the cream with the jam, 
114 gills of good cream . . . : 
% pot of raspberry jam pass it through a sieve, whip again, 


and serve as directed. 


Note.—Strawberry cream may be made in the same way. 


45.—College Pudding. 
Butter a pint pie dish and line it with the paste rolled out, 


Ingredients. very thin ; ornament the edges by 
Some light paste (see recipes) . . 
Some jam or marmalade clipping them with a paste cutter: 


3 oz. of sweet almonds . 
6 bitter almonds (blanched and spread the bottom with about half 


unded) 


6 oz. of sifted sugar an inch thickness of jam ; mix the 
»» 9, dissolved butter . 
The yolks of 6 eggs almond powder with sugar and 


The whites of 3 eggs 


the dissolved butter, add the 
yolks of the eggs beaten with the brandy; add the 
whites beaten to a stiff froth; beat the mixture for ten 
minutes ; pour it over the jam, and bake in a quick oven 
for ten minutes. ’ 


&. 


BOILED AND BAKED PUDDINGS. 277 


46.—Jersey Pudding. 
Beat the butter to a cream and add by degrees all the 


Ingredients, other ingredients in the order in 
¥ Ib. of fresh butter . . 
Y% ,, ,, ground rice which they are given. Beat the 


6 oz. of sugar . : 
% lb. of raisins (stoned and mixture for twenty minutes. But- 
chopped) 


2 or of candied orange peel ter a basin, put in the pudding, 
choppe 

1 oz. of flour ie it cl ge |} 

é fresh eggs (well beaten) te t closely over, plunge into fast 

3 tablespoonsful of new milk boiling water, and boil rapidly for 


one and three quarter hours. Serve with lemon-sauce. 


47.—Lemon Sauce. 
Rub the rind of the lemons with the sugar; put the sugar 


Ingredients. into a saucepan with the gin, 
2 large lemons oe 
» 3. 0z. of loaf sugar water, and juice of the lemons, 
r wineglassful of gin . . . ; 
z » —o5y Water and boil till in a syrup; then 
serve. 
48.—Bakewell Pudding. 
Blanch the almonds; boil them in the milk for ten mi- ~ ,, 
Ingredients. nutes ; pound them to a smooth 
3 oz. of sweet almonds . . 
¥% pint of new milk paste. Cut the roll imto thin 
A French roll . . 
Some jam . slices without crust, and pour the 
6 oz. of fresh butter . . 
6 ,, 4, sifted loaf sugar milk over them. Butter a pie 
6 yolks of eggs . . oe 
3 whites ,, dish, lay in the bread as a lining, 


and on that spread the jam very thick. Dissolve the butter 
and stir in the almonds, add the butter, the yolks and whites 
of the eggs, and beat well for a quarter of an hour. Pour 
the mixture over the jam, and bake in an oven for fifty mi- 
nutes or an hour. 


Note.—Rich puff paste (see recipe) may be substituted for the bread 
¥ a lining to the dish. 


278 DAINTY DISHES FOR INDIAN TABLES. 


49.—Currant Pudding. 
Mix all the ingredients together in the order in which 


Ingredients. they are given; beat well for ten 
34 Ib. of currants (well washed . oy . 
and dried) minutes and boil in a basin well 
{ tb. of moist sygar . 
yy flour covered over and tied down for 


M% y, 5, lemon (the strained three and a half hours. Serve 
2 eggs bf . 
gill of milk with sweet sauce, 


50.—Sweet Sauce. 


Ingredients, Knead the butter with the 
2 oz. of butter . . . 
1 tablespoonful of baked flour flour; boil the milk and stir In 
% of a pint of mil . 
2 tablespoonsful of moist sugar the butter; add the sugar, boil 


for five minutes, and serve. 


51.—Jam Pudding. 


Make a paste as follows :—Boil the sugar and butter in the 


Ingredients. milk ; stir in the Oswego flour; 
¥ of a lb. of loaf sugar . . 
% Ib. of fresh butter stir (off the fire) for ten minutes; 
¥% of a pint of new milk 
6 oz. of Oswego flour add the yolks well beaten, and 
§ ¢RRs . . . 
6 oz. of apricot jam last of all the whites beaten to a 
6 ,, »» Sreengage jam 


firm froth. Divide the paste into 
three parts; butter a mould and lay in the paste and the jam 
in alternate layers; cover with writing paper spread with but- 
ter, and steam over fast boiling water for three quarters of 
an hour, or bake in a quick oven for three quarters of an 
hour. ‘Turn out carefully with sugar sifted over, or with 
the following sauce in a tureen. 


Ingredients of Sauce. Dissolve the sugar in the 
3 07. of loaf sugar 
1 gill of brandy brandy; beat the butter to 4 


2 o7. of butter 


cream; mix these together and 
beat until smooth. ’ 


BOILED AND BAKED PUDDINGS. 279 


52.—Boiled Jam Pudding (“‘Roley Poley.”) 


Make a paste with equal quantities of finely chopped beef | 
suet and sifted dry flour;* moisten with cold water and 
knead to a firm paste; roll it out one-sixth of an inch 
thick and spread it with jam, leaving a quarter of an inch 
all round; brush the edge with water; roll the pudding 
in the form of a bolster ; press the edges to make them. ad- 
here ; roll it tightly in a cloth, tie both ends, put into fast 
boiling water, and boil rapidly for two hours. Serve with 
or without rich custard (see recipes) cold in a tureen. 


53-—Baked Jam Roll. 


Put the milk and butter into a saucepan; place it over 


Ingredients. a slow fire, and when nearly boil- 
int of new milk ° . . 
* bz. of butter ing stir in the flour, sugar (in fine. 
° »> 99 Sifted flour . 
>» 99 loaf sugar powder) and lemon-rind; when 


The grated rind of 1 lemon . 
well mixed, add the eggs, beaten, 


and stir till it becomes a paste; 
turn it out on a paste board and let it get cold. Dredge it 
with flour; roll it out a quarter of an inch thick. Spread 
it with any kind of jam (or marmalade), roll it over in the 
form of a bolster, and bake on a tin in a moderate oven for 
20 or 25 minutes. Sift loaf sugar thickly over, and serve 
either hot or cold and with or without custard. 


‘Any Lind of jam 


54—Potato Pudding. 


Baket the potatoes, and as soon as they are done press 


Ingredients. them out of the skin that the 
4 or § mealy potatoes 
6 oz. of sifted loaf sugar steam may evaporate; when cold 
‘Lhe grated rind of a lemon . 
The strained juice of a lemon rub them through a fine sieve 


* Or see recipes for suet crust. 


~~ t Or boil the potatoes very dry. (See recipes for mashed potatoes, 


280 DAINTY DISHES FOR INDIAN TABLES. 


Ingredients of Potato Pudding. with a wooden spoon. Take six 
2 tablespoonsful of brandy 

: il of thick cream ounces of the potato and add the 

other ingredients in the order in 

which they are given, (the yolks and whites of the eggs beat- 

en separately) ; beat for a quarter of an hour; butter a plain 

mould ; stick it with candied peel, cut in thin half circles ; 

put in the pudding and bake in a quick oven for three quar- 

ters of an hour, turn out and serve immediately; or steam 

_over fast-boiling water for an hour. Serve with Brandy Cream 


Sauce. 


55.—Brandy Cream Sauce. 


Ingredients. Dissolve the sugar in the water; 
3 oz. of loaf sugar . . . . 
1 wine glassful of water boil till in a thick clear syrup; 
1 gill of good thick cream . 
1 wineglassful of brandy beat in the cream; add the 


brandy by degrees. Serve over the pudding. 


50.—Almond and Potato Pudding. 


Blanch the almonds and boil them in the milk for 


UL toe of ingredients twenty minutes, then pound them 
zs pint of new milk | to a soft paste; dissolve the 
6m oF oa user potatoes butter and sugar in the milk. 
The grated rind of a large Rub the potatoes to a fine 
The, strained juice of a large powder, add to them all the 
4am’ grated Other ingredients in the order 


in which they are given (the yolks aud whites of the eggs 
whipped separately ;) beat for twenty minutes; butter a tin 
mould, put in the mixture, and bake in a quick oven for 
forty minutes. Turn out carefully, and serve at once either 
alone or with raspberry cream, or any of the sauces for 
puddings. (See recipes.) 


BOILED AND BAKED PUDDINGS. 281 


57-—A rich Potato Pudding. 


Prepare the potatoes as for mashed potatoes (see recipe), 


Ingredients. pass them through a fine sieve, 
oz. of mashed potatoes . : . 
1... butter p add the ingredients in the order 
9 3 sugar e e e 
e stated rind of one lemon in which they are given; beat 
1 pinch of salt ° 
x gill of cream well together for ten minutes; 
5 eggs {yolks and_ whites . 
beaten separately) butter a mould thickly; ornament 
I wineglassful of brandy . . . . 
1} 02. of candied peel with thin slices of candied peel, 


put in the pudding mixture, and bake in a moderate oven for 
forty minutes. Pour a little clarified butter over the top, 
sift plenty of white sugar over it, and serve with or without 
any of the pudding sauces. (See recipes.) 


58.—Potato Puffs. 


Dissolve the butter and sugar in the milk; rub the po- 
Ingredients. tatoes to a powder; mix these 


2 oz. of fresh butter . 
2 4) » loaf sugar together ; add the lemon rind and 


1 wineglassful of milk 


3 oz.of mealy potatoes (boiled) the yolks of the eggs; beat for 
The grated rind of a small le- . . 
mon ten minutes; beat the whites to 
3 fresh eggs 
a froth; add these; butter five 
small tin moulds; put one-fifth of the mixture into each, 
and bake in a quick oven for eighteen minutes. Sift sugar 
over them, and serve at once. 


Any kind of jelly or jam may be served with them. 
_ 506.—Hasty Puffs. 
Put the milk, lemon-rind, and cinnamon into a saucepan 


Ingredients. and boil up; stir in the flour 
3% of a pint of new milk 


The thin rind of half a lemon quickly; when well mixed add 

1 inch of cinnamon 

3 07. of flour | the butter and sugar; when 
»» Dutt 

3 wdbipoonsta of sugar nearly cold add the eggs, well 


beaten. Take out the peel and 


KH 


282 DAINTY DISHES FOR INDIAN TABLES, 


cinnamon; beat for five minutes. Butter six small cups; 
put one-sixth of the mixture into each, and bake ina quick 
oven for ten or twelve minutes. Turn out and serve with 
any kind of preserve round the dish. 


60.—Puddings in Haste. 


Equal quantities of bread-crumbs, beef suet, chopped, and 
currants well washed, half the quantity of sugar, eggs and 
milk. Mix all together and beat well. Dip some small 
cloths in hot water; wring them dry ; dredge well with flour, 
put a teacupful of the mixture into each, tie them up tight- 
ly, put them into boiling water, and boil fast for twenty 
minutes. Turn out carefully, sift powdered loaf sugar over, 
and serve at once. 


_ 61.—German Puffs. ~ 
Dissolve the butter in the milk; beat the eggs with the 


Ingredients. flour; add the milk and all the 
2 oz. of fresh butter . . 
2 tablespoonsful of new milk other ingr edients ; butter four or 
2 fresh eggs 
2 oz. of sifted sugar five small moulds; rather more 
2 ,, 5, dried flour 


than half fill them with the 
mixture and bake in a quick oven for eighteen or twenty 
minutes. Serve with the following sauce in the dish, or with 
clarified sugar. 


62.—Maraschino Syrup. 
Ingredients, Put the sugar, almonds, lemon- 


3 oz. of loaf sugar oe . 
4 bitter almonds (blanched and peel, Orange-juice, and water into 


chopped) . . . 
The thin rind of quarter lemon @ Saucepan,; boil and skim till 


‘The strained juice of an orange 


x wineglassful of water quite bright and thick; strain, add 
I » »» Maraschino . 
the maraschino and serve. 


BOILED AND BAKED PUDDINGS. 283 


63—Cup Pudding. 


Beat the butter to a cream; add all the other ingredients 


Ingredients in the order in which they are 
3 oz. of fresh butter . . 
3 5s >» baked flour given; beat for ten minutes. But- 
3 1 99 Sifted loaf sugar . 
», Currants or raisins ter six small moulds; three parts 


3 tablespoonsful of cream 


fill them, and bake in a quick 
oven for twenty minutes; turn out and serve with Maras- 
chino Syrup poured over them. 


64.—Rice Apple Dumplings. 


Peel and core the apples without dividing them; dip some 
Ingredients, small cloths in boiling water, 

8 oF of rice dredge them thickly with flour, 
spread the rice in six portions on the cloths; lay an apple 
in the middle of each, tie up the cloths, and boil in boiling 
water for half an hour. Turn out carefully, sift some brown 
sugar over them, and serve at once. Or one large dumpling 
may be made in the same way, but the apples must be quar- 


tered. Some good custard may be served with these. 


65.—Light Currant Dumplings. 


The quantities given are for one dumpling and must be 


Ingredients. increased according to the num- 
3 tablespoonsful of flour . 
», suet (finely ber required. 
" minced) . 


x pinch of salt Mix all the ingredients together 
ome mi . . 
r dessertspoonful of currants and add as much milk an will 


make a very thick batter. Tie the dumplings in well buttered 
cloths and boil for an hour. Serve with Sweet Wine Sauce. 


66.—Lemon Dumplings. 


Mix the bread-crumbs, suet, flour, and lemon-rind well 


284 DAINTY DISHES FOR INDIAN TABLES. 


Ingredients of Lemon Dumplings. together; add the eggs (well beat- 


10 oz. of fine bread-crumbs 


3% Ib. of beef suet (chopped) en and strained), and the lemon- 
1 large tablespoonful of flour 


The grated rind of 2 smalllemons juice (strained.) Beat for five mi- 
The strained juice eo . 
4 oz. of pounded sugar nutes; divide into four equal 
4 large eggs . . 

portions ; tie in well floured cloths, 


and boil one hour. Serve with the syrup of preserved ginger. 


67.—Baked Apple Dumplings. 


Make a paste with the suet, flour and salt, moistened 


Ingredients. with enough water to make a 
Ib. of suet (chopped) . oe 
an of four Pe firm paste; divide it into five 
% 2uitspoonfal of salt . 
5 apples parts; roll it out. Pare the ap- 


Some b gar 
me brown su ples ; scoop out the core; fill the 


vacancy with sugar; lay each apple in its circle of paste; 
cover them over, place them in a tin dish, and bake in a 
moderate oven for three quarters of an hour. Sprinkle moist 
sugar over, and serve at once. 

Note.—These dumplings may be glazed by sprinkling them with 
sifted loaf sugar and holding a red hot salamander over them for a few 
seconds. 


68.—Apple and Plum Dumplings. 
Slice the suet very fine; free it carefully from fibre and 


Ingredients. mince it fine. Mix it well with 
ib of fl 
6 o7, of suet the flour, add the salt and as 
Itspoonful of salt ws 
oan of water much water as will make it into 
8 or to apples . . . 
% oz. of fresh butter a firm paste. Roll it thin. Dip 
The juice and grated rind of a . . . 
lemon a cloth into hot water, wring it 
5 oz. of sugar . . . 
? small sherryglass of white dry, shake it out, flour it thickly 


wine 


and lay it ina basin. Press the 
paste evenly into the basin upon the cloth, and fill it with 
the apples pared and quartered. Add the sugar, butter, 


BOILED AND BAKED PUDDINGS. 285 


lemon-rind and juice, and wine. Moisten the edges of the 
paste, put on the paste-cover, press the edges well together, 
and fold them over. Gather up the ends of the cloth, tie 
it firmly close to the pudding, drop it into boiling water, 
and boil for an hour and a quarter. When it is done lift it 
out by twisting a fork into a corner of the cloth; turn it 
gently into the dish in which it is to be served, and zustantly 
cut a small hole in the top or the dumpling will be heavy. 


Note.—Half a pot of apricot jam is a great addition, put in with 
the fruit. Rhubarb dumplings are made in the same way. 


69.—Paradise Pudding (Apples). 


Mix all the ingredients in the order in which they are 


Ingredients. given, and beat with a wooden 
6 apples . 
4{ tb of beef suet (chopped) spoon for ten minutes. Butter 
% 5, 5, fine bread-crumbs . . . : 
8 oz. of moist sugar a basin, put in the mixture; tie 
The grated rind of an orange . wo. 
The strained juice a cloth over it, put it into fast 
y¥% part of a nutmeg (grated) boili . . 
4 fresh eggs 
4 fresh CES oe rum oiling water and boil rapidly for 


three hours ; or bake in a moder- 
ate oven for an hour and a half. Serve with the following 
sauce. 


70.—Apple Cream. 


Ingredients. Dissolve the jelly in the rum 
2 tablespoonsful of apple jelly 


2 yy TU and beat it into the cream until 
% gill of thick cream : 
smooth. Serve over the pudding. 


_ '71.—Apple Pudding. 


Peel and core the apples and cut them up small; put 


18 apples eee" them into a stewpan which will 
sf inch of tinnamon just hold them with the cinna- 
2 cloves 


mon, cloves, lemon peel, and 


236 DAINTY DISHES FOR INDIAN TABLES. 


Ingredients of Apple Pudding. sugar. Stew till they are quite 
The peel of one lemon 


6 oz. of moist sugar soft; pass through a sieve; add 
1 White 5, a the yolks of th Ib 

6b Hate od outer e yolks o the eggs well beaten, 
The juice of a lemon the white (well beaten) and all 


the other ingredients. Beat all well together with a wooden 
spoon ; butter a mould, put in the pudding, tie it over, and 
bake or boil for half an hour. Serve with Rich Custard. 


72.—Charlotte Pudding (Apples). 
Butter a large basin ; strew it thickly with moist sugar; 


Ingredients, cut some slices of bread and butter 
Some bread . . . 
Some butter thin without crust ; peel, slice, and 
4 apples . 
A pot of marmalade core the apples (very thin) ; put a 


layer of bread in the basin (butter downwards), then mar- 
malade, then apples; do this till the basin 1s ‘full ; press it 
well down ; put a plate over it with a weight on it ; bake ina 
quick oven for three quarters of an hcur. Turn out careful- 


ly and serve very hot. 


73.—Baked Apple Pudding. 
Weigh the apples after they are cored and pared, and stew 


Ingredients. them to a perfectly smooth mar- 
Ib. of apples ; . 
6 on. of sugar malade with the sugar and wine; 
sherryglass of white wine : 
3 o7. of butter stir constantly so that they may 
The juice and rind of one lemon . ’ 
Yolks of 5 eggs not stick to the pan. When they 


1 dessertspoonful of flour, or 3 . . 
or 4 Naples biscuits or ma- are ready and still quite hot, add 


saroons crushed smal the butter, lemon-rind and _ juice, 
the well beaten yolks and the flour. Put the mixture into a 
well buttered tin and bake in a moderate oven for half an 
hour or more. Serve with a little clarified butter on the top 
with sugar sifted over, or else beat the whites of the eggs toa 


BOILED AND BAKED PUDDINGS. «287 


firm froth; mix them with five dessertspoonsful of finely sifted 
loaf sugar, stir it in very gently a quarter of an hour before the 
pudding is done ; pile the froth on to the pudding, then put 
it back to finish baking. This is an excellent way of using up 
any white of eggs you may have over from other dishes. 


74—Brown Bread Pudding. 


Mix all the ingredients in the order in which they are 


Ingredients. given ; beat for ten minutes ; dip 
14 Ib. of stale brown bread . wee . 
8 oz. of salt a cloth into boiling water, wring 
8 29°99 ts e ° . ° 
3 9» sugar dee! it out, dredge it thickly with flour ; 
92 99 candle pee . ° e 
% saltspoonful of salt boil the pudding in the cloth for 


¥ of a small nutmeg . 
eggs three and a half hours. Serve with 
The grated rind of one lemon ° 


1 wineglassful of brandy wine sauce made with port wine. 
(See recipe.) 


75.—A rich Bread Pudding. 
Sweeten the milk with the sugar, add the salt, and pour it 


_—— Angredients. boiling on to the bread-crumbs ; 

‘ Pint ot agar add the butter and cover it with 
% Se Pe breadcrumbs a plate ; let the mixture stand half 
‘ cigs an hour; then stir in the eggs, well 
1 small glass of brandy beaten, the lemon-rind, currants 


The grated rind of one lemon 


and brandy ; beat well; butter a 
mould, put in the pudding (which should fill it), tie paper 
and a cloth tightly over it, and boil for an hour and ten 
minutes. 


76.—A plain Bread Pudding. 


Put any pieces of bread, crust and crumb, into a cool 


tb meant. a oven and dry these until hard, 
; d 
4 so» Suet (finely chopped) but not baked brown ; pound them 


5 tablespoonsful of moist sugar . 
¥, of a nutmeg, grated to fine dust ; mix half a pound of 


288 DAINTY DISHES FOR INDIAN TABLES. 


Ingredients Y' @ Plain Bread, this powder with all the other in- 


uddine 


% Ib. of currants (or % Ib. of | gredients (except the eggs) in the 
Sultana raisins) . . . 
1 pint of new milk order in which they are given; 
3 eggs . 
beat for ten minutes; beat the 
eggs, add them to the pudding mixture ; beat for ten minutes 
more. Butter a basin, pour in the pudding, tie it well over 
with buttered paper and a cloth, and boil in plenty of fast 
boiling water for four hours. 


Note.—Half the quantities given will do for an ordinary sized pudding. 


77,—Baked Bread Pudding, with Marmalade or 
Jam. 


Put any pieces of bread, crust and crumb, into a cool 


. Ingredients. oven and dry until hard, but not 
6 oz. of bread powder 


tablespoonsful of brown sugar brown; pound them to fine dust. 
¥ of of a lb of finely chopped suet 


% ,, ,, nutmeg grated Mix six ounces of this with the 
4 a3 9) pint of new milk 

2 eggs sugar, suet and nutmeg. Pour 
Some marmalade or jam 


the milk over this and beat the 
mixture for ten minutes; beat the eggs, add them to the pud- 
ding, beat ten minutes more. Butter a pie dish, put in a 
layer of the pudding mixture half an inch thick, on that a 
layer of marmalade, then a layer of pudding, another of jam, 
and so on until the dish is full, finishing with pudding at the 
top. Bake it in a slow oven for two hours. 


78.—Baked Bread Pudding. 


Boil the milk and pour it scalding on the bread-crumbs 


Ingredients. and butter, and let them stand till 
6 oz. of bread . 
I 4, », butter well soaked; stir in the sugar, eggs 
1 pint of milk : 
3 oz of sugar (yolks and whites beaten separate. 


5 yolks of eggs : . 
3 whites ,, ,,_ ly), orange peel, (sliced thin), and 


BOILED AND BAKED PUDDINGS. 289 


Ingredients of Baked Bread — nutmeg ; let the mixture stand un- 


Pudding. 
2 oz. of candied orange rind til nearly cold, then pour it into a 
¥ of a nutmeg, grated as _— 
Icing. pie dish. For the icing, beat the 
3 hl of sugar three whites to a fine froth, stir in 


the sugar (pounded very fine) gently, pile it lightly on the top 
of the pudding, and bake in a moderate oven for half an 


hour. Serve at once. 


79.—Plain Bread and Butter Pudding. 
Sweeten the milk with the sugar ; stir into it the eggs, well 


Ingredients. beaten ; cut some slices of bread 
int of milk . : 
uA oz. of sugar and butter, lay them in the dish 
5 e gs e e 
¥% of a nutmeg, grated with currants scattered in between 
3 ounces of currants te ee . 
Some bread and butter until it is full, pour in the custard, 


and bake for about an hour. Lemon-rind grated may be 
substituted for the nutmeg. 


80.—Rich Bread and Butter Pudding, 


Simmer the vanilla or lemon-rind for fifteen minutes, strain 


__ dugredients, it, and pour in the cream ; sweeten 
¥ stick of vanilla orthe rind of  . . . 
lemon it with the sugar and stir in the 
1 pint of new mi ey on : 
Kw cream amps) eggs while it is still hot ; add the 
4 . ° e e 
© eggs (well beaten) salt and brandy, stirring briskly 
x sherryglass of brandy the while. Put three layers of well 
ho of carranSange or buttered slices of bread in a thickly 
lemon-rind buttered pie dish and sprinkle the 


currants and candied peel between; pour over the eggs and 
milk by degrees, letting the bread absorb one portion before 
another 1s added. It should soak for about two hours before 


being baked. Then put it in a moderate oven for half an 
hour, and serve. 


L2 


290 DAINTY DISHES FOR INDIAN TABLES, 


81.—Common Batter Pudding. 


Beat the yolks of the eggs thoroughly; mix them with the 
Ingredients, milk; add the flour very gradu- 
x4 pint of milk ally, beating the mixture well as 
74 Wb of fous | each portion is added to it, or it 
will not be smooth. Whip the whites to a stiff froth, and 
just before the pudding is put into the cloth stir them light- 
ly in. Dip a pudding cloth in boiling water, wring it out, 
flour it well, put in the pudding, leave it room to swell, tie 
it securely, and put it immediately mto fast boiling water. 
Boil for one hour and ten minutes. Send it to table the 
instant it is ready, either with wine sauce (see recipe) or rasp- 
berry vinegar heated. 


82.—Baked Batter Pudding. 
Mix the salt with the flour; whisk the eggs to a light 


Ingredients. froth; strain them; add them to 
6 oz. of flour 
1 small saltspoonful of salt the flour; beat the batter well 
eggs e e 
t pint of new milk and add it to the milk very grad- 


ually. Pour the mixture into a buttered dish, put it at 
once into a brisk oven, and bake for three quarters of an 
hour. Serve with stewed fruit or prunes. 


Note.—The same mixture may be baked in buttered cups tumed 
out and served with sugar sifted thickly over them. 


83.—Derbyshire Batter Pudding. 
Mix the flour with the milk and boil it till it thickens 


Ingredients. When quite cold add the butter, 
2 tablespoonsful of flour 1 . d d 
1 pint of new mi sugar, lemon-rind an bd beat 
3 oz. of butter (beaten to a Bats C8BS> 


cream) well. Butter a dish, lay a thin 


¥% Ib. of sifted sugar 
The grated rind of + lemon ornamental layer of paste round 


BOILED AND BAKED PUDDINGS. * 30 


Ingredients of f Derbyshire Battery the edge; when the pudding iS 


Pudding. 


The yolks of well mi it i 
The yolks of 4 eB I well beaten WE mixed put it into the dish, 

A little pastry, (see recipe) and bake it in a quick oven for 
twenty minutes. Serve either hot or cold, with sifted sugar 


on the top. 


84.-—Batter Fruit Pudding. 


Butter a 1% pint basin thickly, and fill it nearly to the brim 
Ingredients. with the apples pared, cored, and 


Some apples or plums 


4 tablespoonstil of flour quartered, or with plums. Beat 
Y% Ib of sugar . . 
i pint of milk the eggs; mix them gradually 


with the milk; stir in the flour 
carefully by degrees, beating well. Pour the batter over 
the fruit ; tie a well floured cloth over the basin tightly, and 
boil for 144 hours. Turn it into a hot dish when it is 
done, and serve instantly. 


85.—Yorkshire Pudding. 


Whisk the eggs well; strain them; mix them gradually 
Ingredients. with the flour; then pour in by 
3 tablespoonsful of flour degrees as much milk as_ will 
* saltspoonful of salt reduce the batter to the consist- 
ency of thick cream; beat for a quarter of an hour. Put 
the tin in which the pudding is to be put under the joint 
with which it is to be served for about a quarter of an hour; 
when the batter is ready, pour it ito the pan, watch it 
carefully that it does not burn; it will take 114 hours; 
when it is half done cut it down the middle lengthwise and 
each piece into four, and turn it so that it may be browned 
on both sides. Serve with the meat. 


$92 DAINTY DISHES FOR INDIAN TABLES. 
86.—Family Yorkshire Pudding. 


Ingredients. Proceed exactly as in the pre- 
b € e e 
a 1% pint of new milk ceding recipe. 
6 tablespoonsful of dried flour 


. 1 saltspoonful of salt 


87.—Baked Custard Pudding. 
Beat the eggs and mix them with the milk ; strain the 


Ingredients. mixture through a fine sieve and 
1 quart of new milk . . 
8 exgs sweeten it with the sugar; add 
6 oz. of sugar oe 
1 pinch of salt the salt and pour it into a deep 
Some grated lemon-rind or . . 
nutmeg dish, grate the lemon-rind or 


nutmeg over the top and bake it zery slowly in a gentle 
oven from twenty to thirty minutes or longer if it ts not 
firm in the centre. If well made and slowly baked the 
pudding will be guste smooth when cut, and there will be 
no whey in the dish. The honey-combed appearance these 
puddings so often have is due to their being subjected to 
too great heat. 

Note.—Instead of grated lemon-rind or nutmeg, sifted sugar may be 


strewn over the top and burnt by a red-hot salamander being held over 
it for a few minutes. This is a great improvement. 


88.—A finer baked Custard. 
Boil the milk, salt, lemon-rind and sugar gently together 


Ingredients, for five minutes. Beat the yolks 
1% pints of new milk . 
¥. saltspoonful of salt and whites of the eggs and pour 
The thin rind of a lemon . eae . 
6 oz. of loaf sugar the milk boiling into them by 
‘The yolks of 10 fresh eggs we . 
‘The whites of 4 41» degrees, stirring all the time; 


1 pint of good cream . ; 
1 sherryglass of brandy, or train the mixture and add the 


maraschino, or noyeau ; 
cream ; let it cool and then fla 
vour it with the brandy; line a pie dish with thin pastry 


BOILED AND BAKED PUDDINGS. 293 


(see recipes) ; pour in the mixture and finish as in the pre- 
ceding recipe. Serve with or without the syrup of pre- 
served ginger, or with raspberry syrup heated. 


89.—Boiled Custard Pudding. 
Whisk the eggs well; put them into a pint pudding 


Ingredients, basin ; fill up with milk; strain ; 
eggs . 
3 ot of milk add the sugar and flavouring ; 
2 oz. of sugar . . . . 
20 drops of vanilla* pour it back into the basin, tie 


* Or the sugar may be rasped it over with buttered paper and 
on lemon-rind and then crushed . 

or dissolved in the milk. a cloth, and boil gently for half 
an hour. Let it stand a few minutes, turn it out on a dish, 
and serve either plain or with any of the pudding sauces 


(see recipes), or some preserved fruit. 


90.—Oswego Custard Pudding. 
Mix the flour with a quarter of a pint of the milk; add 


ingredients. the remainder of the milk, boil- 
2 large tablespoonsful of Os- . . 
6 oie flour ing, the sugar and lemon-rind ; 
1% pint of mi . . 
oz. of moist sugar stir till nearl ; eg 
The grated rind of t lemon can'y cold ? add the ©88s 
2 eggs well beaten. Butter a dish, pour 


in the pudding, and bake for twenty minutes, or boil in a 
basin for half an hour. 


91.—Boiled Rice Pudding, plain. 


Wash the rice; boil it in three pints of water for one 


Ingredients hour; drain off the water. Stir 
4% Ib. of rice . . 
M 4, 5, moist sugar the sugar, milk and egg into the 
Y pint of new milk . . . ; 
I egg rice. Press it into a basin, tle 


it over with a cloth, and boil for an hour. 


294 DAINTY DISHES FOR INDIAN TABLES. 


92.—A good Boiled Rice Pudding. 
Put the rice into the cold milk, heat it slowly and sim 


Ingredients. mer for one hour; add the but- 
44 oz. of rice ° 
1% pints of new milk ter, sugar, salt, and lemon-rind, 
2 oz. of butter 
4 yy Sugar almonds (pounded to a paste); 
I pinch o . 
ds 
4 bitter almonds and eggs (well whisked) to the 
4 eggs milk while it 1s still quite hot; 


arnpact auitamay te et the mixture cool; pour it 

into a well buttered basin or into 
a mould which should be quite full; tie buttered paper anda 
floured cloth over it, and boil exactly an hour; take it out; 
let it stand for two or three minutes, turn it out and serve 
with sweet sauce (see recipe) or stewed fruit. 


93.—Boiled Rice and Raisin Pudding. 


Wash the rice, mix it with the raisins, tie them lightly ina 


5 or of Ingredients. well floured cloth, giving them 
OZ. OL rice 
3% Ib. of raisins plenty of room to swell; boil 134 


hours, and serve with Sweet Sauce. (See recipe.) 


94.—Baked Rice Pudding. 
Put the rice into plenty of cold water and boil it gently 


Ingredients. for eight or ten minutes ; drain 
6 oz. of ri . . 
quart of milk well on a sieve or strainer; put 
z. of sugar oe : 
aes it into a clean saucepan with the 
Nutmeg, cinnamon, or lemon- . . ; 
rind milk ; let it simmer for an hour; 


sweeten with the sugar; beat the eggs, strain them, add 
them gradually to the milk, stirring carefully; add the 
flavouring; put into a buttered pie dish, bake for an hour, 


and serve. 


BOILED AND BAKED PUDDINGS. 205 


95.—Baked Rice Pudding without Eggs. 


Wash the rice well; put it in a buttered pie dish with 


Ingredients. the sugar and milk ; grate a little 
5 tablespoonsful of rice . 
4 . » moist sugar nutmeg over them and bake ina 
I quart of new milk 


Some nutmeg moderate oven for 234 hours, 


96.—Richer Rice Pudding. 


Wash the rice very clean; pour the milk on to it and 


dngredients. stew it -gently till it is tender; 

02. of rice . ck . 
134 pint of new milk while it is still on the fire add 
2 oz. of good butter . 
3» 9 sugar the butter and sugar; take it 


‘The grated rind of halflenon off the fire, and when it is cooled 
add the eggs well whisked and the lemon-rind. Put the 
pudding in a well buttered dish and bake in a gentle oven 
for thirty or forty minutes. 


97.—Rice Pudding Meringue. 

Prepare the rice exactly as above leaving out the whites 
of the eggs. Whisk the whites to a stiff froth, stir in lightly 
five heaped tablespoonsful of jizely powdered sugar ; lay it 
lightly on the top of the pudding, and bake 1% hours in 
a moderate oven. 


98—Ground Rice Pudding. 
Mix the rice very smoothly with half pint of the milk; 


Ingredients. boil the remainder of the milk 
§ oz. of ground rice ; ; ; ; 
T quart of new milk and stir the rice into it; keep 
4 oz. of butter 

+> 9) SUgar ° oe ° 

esaltspoonful of salt stirring it over a gentle fire for 
B yolks of eggs ten minutes, and be careful it 
Th ted rind of ‘one lemo ° . 
r cearetglassful of brandy does not stick to the pan; add 


the butter, sugar and salt; stir fora few minutes, lift it off 


296 DAINTY DISHES FOR INDIAN TABLES. 


and add the beaten yolks, whites, and rind and brandy; laya 
border of fine paste (see recipes) round a buttered dish, 
pour in the pudding; strain some clarified butter over the 
top; moisten the paste with the brush, sift over some sugar 
and bake in a very gentle oven for three quarters of an hour. 
If preferred the remaining whites of eggs may be used to 
cover the pudding with meringue. (.S¢e preceding recipe.) 


Note.—This is a very large pudding ; half the quantities will do for 
ordinary use. 


99.—Ground Rice Pudding, plain. 
Moisten the rice with half pint of the milk; boil the re 


lablespuercful of ground mainder and pour it on to the 
” oe wold milk rice by degrees, stirring carefully ; 
3 0. of vanilla sugar stir over the fire for a quarter of 
3 eggs well beaten an hour. Add the sugar; let it 


get nearly cold; add the eggs. Butter a pie dish, put in 
the pudding, and bake in a quick oven for twenty-five or 
thirty minutes. 


100.—Ground Rice Cup Pudding. 
Moisten the rice with half a gill of the milk; boil the 


Ingredients. remainder of the milk and stir it 
2 02. of ground nice . to th ° b d . 
ints of new mi into tne rice egrees ; 
2 2 o7 off fresh butter he f y Brees ; sur over 
sh eggs 
af resh 033 dof half lemon the fire ten minutes, then let it 
3 oz. of sifted sugar get cold. Beat the butter to a 


cream; beat the eggs, mix these well into the rice; add 
the lemon-rind and sugar. Beat the mixture for twenty mi- 
nutes; butter six small moulds (or cups); put an equal 
quantity into each, and bake in a quick oven for eighteen 


BOILED AND BAKED PUDDINGS. 297 


minutes. Serve immediately with loaf sugar sifted over. If 
a red-hot salamander is held over each for a few minutes the 
sugar will glaze into a rich crust, 


tor1.—Gateau de Riz. 
Wash and drain the rice; free it from discolored grains ; 


Ingredients. put it into the milk and place it 
7 02. of rice : 
1 quart of milk near the fire to simmer very gent- 
3 oz. of fresh butter . 
yy lump sugar ly until tender, about three quar- 


; pinch of salt 
The rind of one large lemon ters of an hour; add the butter, 


Ss 
2 ono sane butter erumbs sugar, salt, and lemon rind, grat- 
ed; simmer for about an hour 
until the rice is swollen to the utmost and perfectly tender ; 
take it off the fire, let it cool, and stir in quickly by degrees, 
the well beaten yolks of the eggs. Take a plain mould, 
put in the butter and turn it round and round until each 
part has received a coating of butter; turn it upside down 
for a moment to let the superfluous butter drain off; throw 
in the bread-crumbs and shake them entirely over the inside 
of the mould; shake out those which do not stick. Whisk 
the whites of the eggs to a stiff froth ; stir them gently into’ 
the rice; pour the mixture gently into the mould so as not 
to displace the bread-crumbs; put into a moderate oven 
instantly, and let it remain there an hour. It will, if proper- 
ly baked, turn out quite brown and firm and looking like a 
cake. But a hot oven will cause it to break and look un- 
sightly. 

It is a great improvement to pour some clear apple, 
quince, or stawberry jelly (melted) over the rice-cake when 

it is served. 


Wa 


298 DAINTY DISHES FOR INDIAN TABLES, 
102.—Gateau de Riz. 
(Another way.) 


Wash the rice; strain it; put it with the milk and va 


Ingredients. nilla into an uncovered sauce- 
tablespoonsful of rice . 

3% pint of milk (or milk and pan on the fire ; simmer gently 

2 inches of vanilla" for 114 hours; stir it occasionally; 


6 lame er reer of brown sugar = take it off; take out the vanilla; 

* Or 20 drops of essence of va- beat the eggs, add them to the 
nilla rice; mix well; take a_ small 
saucepan or plain mould ; put in the lumps of sugar with 
a little water ; put it over the fire; when it bakes and gets 
brown and thick lift off the saucepan ; turn it gently round 
and round until every part of the inside is covered with 
syrup; plunge the saucepan into cold water for a few seconds 
(which causes the coating of sugar to congeal on the sauce 
pan at once). Pour in the rice mixture and put the sauce- 
pan (or mould) into another saucepan half full of boiling 
water ; put a little plate with hot charcoal on it on the top 
and boil for an hour. Turn it out and serve either hot 
or cold. 

Raspherry cream will be found a great addition to this 
refined and elegant pudding, 


103.—Sweet Casserole of Rice. 
Wash the rice; drain it on a hair sieve ; put it into a very 


_ Ingredients. clean saucepan with the cold 
14 Ib. of rice . . 
1 quart of new milk milk ; stir well together ; place the 
2 oz. of butter 
244 4, ,, pounded sugar pan zear the fire for half an hour; 
The rind of one lemon, grated, . 
or 25 drops of vanilla simmer over the fire very gently 


Some clarified butter 
for half an hour more ; add the 


butter, sugar, and lemon-rind, and simmer gently until it ts 


BOILED AND BAKED PUDDINGS. 299 


sufficiently soft to be easily crushed with a spoon, Butter a 
tin mould thickly ; crush the rice to a smooth paste and 
pour the mixture into the mould; press it in carefully; 
smooth -the surface and let it stand until cold; dip the 
mould into hot water, turn out the rice ; reverse it again on 
another dish and with the point of a knife mark round a 
circular rim about one inch from the edge; brush some 
clarified butter over the pudding and put-into a brisk oven ; 
when it is of a light golden-brown color all over, draw it out, 
raise the cover carefully where you marked it, scoop out the 
rice from the inside, leaving only a crust of about one inch 
thick in every part, and pour into it some preserved fruit 
(plums, apricots or peaches). Serve with or without whipped 
cream on a separate dish. 


104.—Macaroni Pudding. 


Break the macaroni into one inch lengths, soak it in the 


. Ingredients milk for two hours ; put it on the 
' 2 oz. of macaroni . . . 
BY; pints of milk fire in the milk and simmer gently 
1 oz. of fresh butter . 
3s 5) Sugar for 1% hours; stir in the butter 
3 eggs 


and sugar ; take it off the fire, and 
when it is a little cool, beat up the eggs and stir.them in. 
Butter a pie dish ; put in the pudding ; grate a little nutmeg 
over the top, and bake in a moderate oven for three quarters 
of an hour. 


Note.—The macaroni may be flavored either with vanilla or lemon- 
peel and the pie-dish may be lined with puff paste. 


105.—Baked Tapioca Pudding. 


Simmer the tapioca and lemon-rind in the milk for 134 


300 DAINTY DISHES FOR INDIAN TABLES. 


Ingredients of Baked Tapioce hours ; stir in the sugar ; let it get 


Pudding. 
tablespoonsful of tapioca cold ; take out the peel ; add the 
The thin rind of a lemon * . 
1¥4 pints of new milk eggs, well-beaten ; beat ten mi- 
\% Ib. of sugar ° . ° 
3 eRgs nutes; butter a pie dish (line the 


* Twenty dro of vanilla may be i 1 - put 
substituted for t e lemon-rind y edge with paste if preferred) ? P 
in the pudding, and bake ina 
quick oven for half an hour. 


106.—Boiled Tapioca Pudding. 
Boil the tapioca gently in the milk for two hours ; add the 


Ingredients. butter, sugar, and ratafia cakes; 
oz. of tapioca ° 
16 pints of milk beat well for ten minutes ; beat 
2 oz. of fresh butter, or half a . . . 
gill of thick cream the eggs, stir them in briskly ; but- 
4 0z. of loaf sugar ; . ; 
I 45 5, ratafia cakes ter a mould; pour in the pudding; 
S ¢ggs 


tie over with writing paper spread 
with butter, and a floured cloth, and steam over boiling water 
for 1% hours. Turn out carefully and serve with raspberry 
syrup warmed and poured over, or serve cold with custard or 
whipped cream. 


Note.—If the whites axe whipped separately and stirred into the 
pudding just before putting it in the shape or basin it will be found to 
make it lighter. 


107.—Semolina Pudding. 
Blanch and pound the almonds to a soft paste ; put them 


| Ingredients. into a saucepan with the semolina, 
r oz. of sweet almonds . . . 
6 bitter almonds sugar and milk ; boil gently, stir- 
6 oz. of semolina . 
5 9 »y loaf sugar ring constantly for three quarters 
1 pint of new milk . 
2 on. of butter of an hour; add the butter; stir 

eggs , 


off the fire for ten minutes; beat 
the yolks of the eggs, stir them in; butter a mould; beat 


BOILED AND BAKED PUDDINGS. 30t 


the whites to a stiff froth; stir them lightly into the pudding, 
and pour the mixture into the mould ; tie it over with writ- 
ing paper spread with butter; steam over fast boiling water 
for 14 hours, or bake in a moderate oven foran hour. ‘Turn 
out carefully, and serve with raspberry syrup warmed, or any 
sweet sauce. 


108.—Semolina Pudding. 


(Another way.) 
Put all the ingredients except the eggs in a stewpan over 
Ingredients. the fire ; stir it till it thickens and 
1% tb of semolina : 
6 oz. of sugar ceases to adhere to the sides of the 
32 9s OUtter : 
t pinch of salt stewpan ; beat the eggs, yolks, and 


1 pint of milk . 
1 tablespoonful of orange flower whites separately ; take the pud- 


6 ratafias ding off the fire; add the yolks; 
beat well ; butter a mould ; stir the whites lightly into the 
pudding; pour it into the mould; tie over buttered paper and 
a floured cloth ; steam for an hour; turn out carefully, and 


serve with custard whip. (See next recipe.) 


109.—Custard Whip. 


Blanch and pound the almonds ; mix them into a smooth 


Ingredients. paste with the sugar and orange 
1 oz. of sweet almonds . 
6 bitter almonds flower water; put them into a 
oz. OF SU 


4 gar 
1 tablespoonful of orange water small stewpan with the cream, add 
1 gill of cream . ‘ 
‘The yolks of two eggs the yolks whipped, and with a 
wire whisk whip the sauce over a very gentle heat until it be- 


comes a thick smooth froth. 


110.—French Semolina Pudding. 


Stand the milk with the lemon-rind in it near the fire for 


‘ 


tl 


302 DAINTY DISHES FOR INDIAN TABLES. 


Jugredients 9 of P ppgeneh Semolina half an hour ; bring it slowly to 4 


ing 


1 quart of new milk boil ; simmer it for five minutes ; 

The thin rind of one fresh . . 
lemon take out the lemon-rind. Putin 

§ oz. of semolina . . 

4» » sugar the semolina stirring gently all the 

3 a» butter . . ° 

1 pinch of salt ; ntl } 

4 bitter almonds, blanched and time ; boil gently for ten minutes; 
pounded stir in the sugar, butter ‘and salt; 


boil for three minutes, stirring constantly ; take it off the 
fire, and when it is cool stir in the yolks of the eggs well 
beaten ; add the pounded almonds mixed with a teaspoonful 
of sugar ; prepare a mould as for gateau de riz (see recipes); 
beat the whites of the eggs to astiff froth; stir in gently; pour 
the pudding into the mould, and bake in a very gentle oven 
for 14 hours. 


111.—Soojee Pudding. 
Boil the milk and drop the soojee into it gradually, stir- 


Jug redients. ring well all the time, so that the 
4 07. of soojee . . 
"3 pints of new milk ded mixture may be smooth ; stir for 
3% oz. of sugar, pounde . 
2 4, », butter” about ten minutes ; add the but- 
The rind of one lemon, grated . 
5 eggs ter, sugar, lemon-rind ; beat the 


eggs well; take the mixture off the fire, and when it is cooler 
but still warm stir in the eggs; pour it into a buttered dish; 
bake half an hour in a moderate oven. 


112.—Soojee, Semolina, or Vermicelli Pudding 
with Apples. 


Boil the milk, and proceed exactly as above; when they 


Ingredients, are in the pudding-dish cover the 
1 quart of milk . 
2 oz. of butter top over with apples pared, cored, 
1) 9 SUgar, pounded . 
‘The grated rind of one lemon and quartered; press them into 


the pudding mixture, they will at once rise to the surface 


BOILED AND BAKED PUDDINGS. 303 


again; place the dish in a gentle oven for three quarters of 
an hour, or until the fruit is quite tender. 


113—.Sago Pudding. 
Is prepared in the same way as Tapioca and Semolina 
Pudding. 
114.—Rusk Pudding. 


Simmer the lemon-rind with the milk and sugar beside 


. Ingredients. the fire for a quarter of an hour; 
2 rusks 

1 egg beat th ; i ) 
5B Foe milk t the egg ; butter a tart dish ; 
6 lumps of sugar lay in the rusks ; take the lemon- 
The rind of one lemon . 

Some jam or jelly peel out of the milk, pour it on 


the egg, beating briskly; pour the mixture over the rusk, 
and bake s/ow/y for an hour. Turn it out on a dish; put 
a couple of dessertspoonsful of jam or jelly in a teacup in 
boiling water ; when it melts pour it over the pudding. 


115.—Biscuit Pudding. 


Soak the biscuit in the milk; when quite soft beat them 


Ingredients. "up quite smooth; add the sugar, 
3 oz. of Huntley and Palmer’s 
Lunch biscuits eggs (well beaten), lemon-peel, 


¥% pint of milk 
2 oz. of lump sugar, pounded = =and salt. Butter a basin; put 


‘The rind of half lemon, grated in the pudding ; tie it over with 
1 pinch of salt 

buttered paper, and steam for an 

hour. If the pudding isto be baked one egg may be 


Ingredients of Sauce. omitted. Serve with the follow- 
2 ounce of lump sugar ; . . 
¥Y of a pint of water Ing sauce. Boil the sugar in the 
‘The juice of one lemon . . . . 
1 tablespoonful of sherry water till it begins to thicken ; 


add. the lemon-juice ; boil five minutes more; add the 
sherry, and serve. 


ee 


( 


304 DAINTY DISHES FOR INDIAN TABLES, 


116.—Crumb Pudding. 


Boil the bread-crumbs with the milk; add the sugar and 
Ingredients. vanilla ; when it is quite smooth 
2 oz. of bread-crumbs . 

% of a pint of milk and thick add the yolks of the 

2 oz. of sugar 
20 drops of essence of vanilla eggs well beaten; butter a tart 
Some straw! Jam sugar dish, put in the mixture, and 
bake slowly for three quarters of 
an hour; spread a layer of strawberry jam over the top; 
beat the whites of the eggs to a stiff forth, stir in the sugar 
lightly and pile this over the pudding ; dip a knife in boil- 
ing water, smooth the whites over with it, put the pudding 
back into the oven, and bake till it is a golden-brown. 


Serve at once. 


117.—Indian Corn Flour Pudding. 


This is not “cornflour ” as usually sold, but 1s the flour of 


Ingredients. maize finely ground, and is an 
2 oz. of Indian Corn flour . . . 
A pint of milk excellent article of diet. Mix the 
20 drops of vanilla . 
2 oz. of sugar corn flour with a quarter of a 


* °88 pint of the milk; boil the re. 


mainder of the milk with the sugar and vanilla and pour it 
on to the flour; put it into a clean stewpan and stir over the 
fire until it becomes quite thick; beat the egg; stir it in; 
butter a tart dish; put in the mixture, and bake very slowly 
for three quarters of an hour. 


118.—Oatmeal Pudding. 


Mix the oatmeal with a quarter of a pint of the milk: 
Ingredients, boil the remainder of the milk 


r. of oatmeal : . 
Y% pints of milk and add it to the oatmeal; stir in 


2 oz. of sugar 


245 9 Sifted bread-crumbs the sugar and stir over the fire 


BOILED AND BAKED PUDDINGS. 305 


Ingredients of Oatmeal Pudding for ten minutes; add the bread- 
1 oz of suet, shredded bs: eth xt till it . 
2 sees, of vanilla, or the grated crum S; stir the mixture tull it 1s 

rind of half lemon stiff; add the suet; beat the eggs, 
stir them in; add the flavouring. Butter a dish, put in the 


pudding, and bake slowly for an hour. 


WR 


> 


SWEET DISHES OR ENTREMETS. 


1.—Italian Sweetmeat. 
Put the sugar into a saucepan with the water and boil 


Ingredients. . fast, skimming Cc onstantly for ten 
6 oz. of mixed can-) . 
died peel | | Allcut minutes; add the orange flower 
40z, of candied into fine ; 
pine apple, shreds water and boil five minutes more. 


% Ib eee At.) Blanched & P 

- of sweet al- anc $ ° 
te nd \ pour hed & our off a quarter into a basin 
12 bitter almonds-) a paste . 
16 new laid eggs, (stirred), sof to get cold. Take a small tin 


beaten, and strained ° . 

7 Ibs. of loaf sugar funnel through which a pea will 
int of water : . : oye 

3 tablespoonsfal of, orange water JUS pass; hold it over the boiling 

2 tablespoonstul of brandy sugar and drop the strained yolks 


of the eggs through so as to form small balls; as they set in 
the sugar take them out and drain on a sieve. When the 
egg is all prepared, stir the almonds into the sugar and sim- 
mer till it forms a soft paste; add the brandy and pass 
through a sieve. Butter a pie dish, put in the almond paste, 
candied fruit and egg balls in layers. Beat the whites of 
five eggs and stir into the clarified sugar; beat to a froth and 
pour it over the whole; bake in a quick oven for eighteen 
minutes. Turn out carefully and serve cold. 


2.—Russian Pudding. 


Put the cream, sugar, and ratafia essence into a bowl and 


Ingredients, stir one way until the mixture 
¥ pint of cream 


3 tablespoonsful of sugar thickens. Butter a plain round 


SWEET DISHES OR ENTREMETS. 307 


Ingredients of Russian Pudding. mould and line it throughtout 
x tablespoonful of ratafia es- 


sence (vanilla or almond with sponge cake. Pour in some 
may be substituted) 


12 finger biscuits (or slices of Of the thickened cream, an inch 
Macaroons cake) in depth, th tj l 

Raspberry or strawberry jam in ep en put in a layer of 

macaroons and a layer of jam, 

then add another layer of cream, another layer of macaroons 

and jam, and so on until the shape Is filled. Let it stand 

until wanted, dip the mould in hot water for a second, then 


turn jt out and serve. 


3.—Gateau a la Créme. 


Beat:the butter to a cream; stir in the sugar very gradu- 


i Ingredients. ; ally; when well mixed, beat the 
rice, sponge, or cornflour oo 8 

cake yolk and stir it in; add the cof- 
4 oz. of butter . 

4.15 » finely powdered sugar fee drop by drop, beating all the 


The yolk of one egg . . 
3 teaspoonsful of essence of time with a wooden spoon. The 


_ mixture should have the appear- 
ance of Mayonnaise sauce. Cut the cake across in slices; 
lay a slice in the dish, then a layer of cream, and so on till 
it is finished. Cover with the cream, and serve. 


4.—Nesselrode Pudding. 


Put the isinglass, sugar, vanilla and milk into an ena- 


Ingredients. melled saucepan ; boil gently for 
x oz. of good isinglass . 
S 45 5, loaf sugar ten minutes. Beat the yolks of 
2 inches of stick vanilla ; . kk . 
x pint of new milk the eggs and stir into the milk 
resn eg¢s we cee . 
4 02. of preserved pine- whilké hot but not boiling; stir 
apple 


1 oz. of angelica 
2 3 39 candied apri- 
cots 


over the fire till at boiling heat ; 
strain into a basin. Put the fruits 
ere . into a small bowl and pour over 
. vinta of curagao or \the curacao; let it stand half an 
x pint of very thick cream our. Beat the cream to a froth, 


2 oz. of cherries 
2 5, 5 Orange peel, 


Cut into half 
inch squares 


308 DAINTY DISHES FOR INDIAN TABLES. 


stir it into the custard when nearly cold; put in the frut, 
and stir the mixture rapidly for five minutes. Rinse a mould 
in cold water; pour in the pudding and place it in a pan on, 
or surrounded by, rough ice; stir it till it begins to set, to 
prevent the fruit from sinking to the bottom. Let it remain 
till quite firm, turn it out in a dish, and serve at once. 


Note.—This is a very large pudding, and half the quantity will suffice 
for a small dinner. 


5.—Tipsy Cake, or Trifle. 


Cut the cake into five slices; put the top slice aside; 


Ingredients. spread the other four with jam; 
A 1 Ib. sponge cake one day old . 
%, Ib. of greengage ) put two ounces of the sugar into 
% yy 3, raspberry } jams . a . 
% 3, 3, apricot the wine; add the spirits to it; 
% 4, 5, orange marmalade ; . 
4 pint of Madeira or sherry lay the ratafias in a glass dish, 
1 wineglassful of brandy . 
I rum 
Fer wine and on them the bottom slice of 
5 oF of loaf sugar the cake ; pour over one-sixth of 
r pint of new milk the wine mixture; do this till the 


ot blanched sweersimonds cake is built up; over the top 

Some essence of vanilla pour the remainder; baste it fre 
quently till the wine is absorbed. Make custard as fol- 
lows :— 

Boil three ounces of sugar in the milk; beat the 
eggs; add the milk while hot but not boiling; stir over 
a slow fire till it thickens (about five minutes) ; stir in 
the cream; let it get quite cold; add thirty drops of the 
essence of vanilla; cut the almonds into pointed pieces, 
stick over the top of the cake tastefully with them; pour 
half of the custard over three hours before serving ; and the 


remainder at the last moment. 
Note. —This Trifle takes about eight hours to make. 


SWEET DISHES OR ENTREMETS. 309 


6.—Swiss Trifle. 


Put the lemon-rind and cinnamon into three quarters of a 


Ingredients. pint of the cream, and stand it 

1 pint of rich cream . 
6 oz. of lump sugar beside the fire for half an hour; 
The rind of one lemon . . . 
1 inch of cinnamon strain it; sweeten it with the sugar ; 
4_teaspoonsful of fine flour . . 
The juice of two lemons place it over the fire in a very clean 
4 0%. of macaroons ; 

1% 5, ) candied citron saucepan ; mix the quarter of a 


pint of cream reserved for the purpose into a smooth batter 
with the flour; when the cream on the fire boils add this 
batter to it; simmer three or four minutes, and stir gently 
without ceasing ; pour it out, and when it is quite cold add 
the strained lemon-juice by degrees. Cover the bottom of a 
glass dish with a portion of the macaroons, pour in part of 
the cream, lay in the'remainder of the macaroons, add the rest 


of the cream, and ornament with the candied citron cut thin. 
Note.—This dish should be made twelve hours before it is wanted. 


7.—Tipsy Cake. 
Soak the cake in as much wine as it will absorb; blanch 
Ingredients. the almonds ; cut them into spikes, 
AS S k .; 
Some brandy or white wine and stick the cake all over with 
Some blanched almonds | 
Some rich custard (see recipe) them. Pour the custard (cold) 


round it and serve. 


8.—Chantilly Basket filled with Whipped Cream 
and fresh Strawberries. 


Take a mould of any sort to form a basket in; stick it 


Ingredients. all over with macaroons held to- 
Some macaroons . 
Some barley sugar gether with melted barley sugar. 
Whipped cream . 
Strawberry syrup Take it out of the mould and 


Fresh strawberries . . 
keep it in a dry place until want- 


310 DAINTY DISHES FOR INDIAN TABLES. 


ed; whip some cream with the syrup; fill the basket with 
it and stick fine ripe strawberries over it. It must not be 
filled until just before it is served. 


9.—Charlotte Russe. 
Beat the yolks of the eggs and strain them into half-pint 


ke se eredients. of the cream; put this into an 
5 yolks of eggs . 
1% pint of good cream enamelled saucepan and stir over 
3 oz. of loaf pugar ' 1 f 
493 9 the best isinglass ill i 1 1 
3 nd of go mi a slow fire till it begins to thicken 
2 oz. of sweet almonds 1 it 1 
3 inches of vail but not to boil. Turn it into a 
Some Savoy (finger) biscuits basin to get quite cold. Dissolve 


the sugar and isinglass in the milk; blanch and pound the 
almonds ; add them and the vanilla to the milk; boil slowly 
for twelve minutes, rub through a sieve and stir into the eggs 
while warm ; whip the cieam, add it to the rest, and stir till 
it begins to thicken. ‘Trim off the ends of the biscuits ; rub 
a plain quart mould with fresh butter; stick the biscuits round 
in an upright position close to each other so as to form a wall 
(the flat side of the biscuits inside) ; imbed the mould in a 
rough ice, pour in the cream, cover it over, and let it remain 
till quite firmly set. When about to serve, dip the mould in 
hot water, wipe off the droppings, and turn out carefully. 


Nole—Coffee, strawberry, apricot or chocolate cream (see recipes) 
may be substituted for the above for variety. 


10.—Nougat of Almonds. 


Scald and blanch the almonds; remove the skin; wash 


Ingredients. them and dry them on a napkin; 
2 its. of Jordan almonds . . 
I 4, 5, sifted sugar split each almond in half; place 


them on a baking sheet, and put them in an oven to acquire 
a very pale fawn color. While they are being colored, put 


SWEET DISHES OR ENTREMETS. Bit 


the sugar in a small saucepan and stir it over a slow fire till 
it melts, stirring it with a wooden spoon. As soon as it is 
entirely dissolved and begins to bubble, throw in the al- 
monds and mix them gently with the sugar, taking care not 
to break them. Rub a mould carefully with oil, set it to 
drain on a plate, and with an oiled lemon spread it out very 
quickly and press it into the mould. When it is set and 
cool, turn it out on a napkin. 


11.—Parisian Nougats. 


Scald the pistachios ; remove the skins; rub them gently 


Ingredients. with a napkin to dry them; split 
8 oz. of pistachio kernels 


4 4) 9 Sugar each kernel in halves; put them 
1 stick of vanilla . . 
1 teaspoonful of cochineal to dry on a baking sheet ; pound 


the vanilla with one ounce of the sugar; sift it and put it 
with the remainder of the sugar in a small saucepan; stir 
over the fire with a wooden spoon until the sugar is entirely 
‘melted, and as soon as it begins to bubble on the surface 
add the pistachios ; instantly and carefully mix the whole 
together, taking care not to bruise the pistachios. Oila 
baking sheet, spread out the nougat on it in the form of a 
square about one-eighth of an inch thick; sprinkle it with 
some roughly broken sugar ; before it becomes cold divide 
it into two bands, and cut these again into a dozen small 
oblong nougats ; pile them up on a napkin, and serve. 


12.—Apple Marmalade. 
Peel, core, and quarter the apples. Take three pounds 


Ingredients. and put them ina stewpan with 
Some apples we 
6 oz. of butter the butter, sugar and lemon-juice ; 


of a th. of moist sugar . 
tone strained juice of onelemon stew over a gentle fire until they 


312 DAINTY DISHES FOR INDIAN TABLES. 


form a rich dry dark brown marmalade. Stir constantly to 
keep it from burning. 


Note.—Two or three quinces will be found a great addition to this. 


13.—Charlotte of Apples. 


Butter a plain mould ; cut some slices of bread a quarter 


Ingredients. of-an inch thick; cut out one 
Apple marmalade (see recipe) . : 
Some stale bread slice the size of the bottom of the 
Some clarified butter ; . . 
Some apricot or quince jam mould and the remainder into long 


strips like finger biscuits ; lay these on a dish ; pour over the 
clarified butter, and when they are well saturated line the 
mould with them ; fill the mould with the apple marmalade 
press it in ; cover over with a dish, and bake in a quick oven 
for three quarters of an hour. Turn out carefully and serve 
at once either plain or with apricot or quince jam_ poured 
round the base, or melted jelly poured over it. Whipped or 
thick Devonshire cream served in a separate dish is a great 
improvement to this delicious dish. 


Note,—Greengages or apricots boiled to a rich jam with equal weight 
of loaf sugar may be used instead of apple marmalade. 


14.—Apple Hedgehog. 


When the marmalade is ready add one ounce of isinglass 


Ingredients. dissolved in two tablespoonsful of 
Some apple marmalade (see 


recipe) boiling water; rub a mould with 

Some blanched almonds . . 

Some whipped cream or custaré sweet almond oil, put in the mar- 
malade, and let it stand in a cool place until firmly set. Cut 
the blanched almonds into spikes lengthwise and stick the 
apple mould all over with these till it looks like a hedgehog. 


Serve with whipped cream or custard ina separate dish. | 


SWEET DISHES OR ENTREMETS, 313 


15.—Meringue of Apples. 


When the marmalade is ready and quite cold put it on a 


; Ingredients. dish. Whisk the whites of the 
ome apple marmalade . oe 
4 whites of eggs eggs toa stiff froth; stir in the 
4 tablespoonsful of finely sifted . 

loaf sugar sugar gently, and lay the méringue 


carefully, and lightly over the marmalade. Place it in a 
moderate oven and bake about half an hour till it is quite 
crisp and dry and slightly browned. 


Note.—It isan improvement to this dish to cover the apples with 
some sweet rice (sce recipe) before putting on the méringue. 


16.—Meringue of Rhubarb, or Gooseberries. 
Pare the rhubarb cut it into short lengths ; add the sugar 


Ingredients, and stew carefully until they form 
' 1 Ib. of young rhubarb or : . 
136 pint of gooseberries a smooth pulp ; then boil quickly 


8 oz of ; 
02 of sugar and stir frequently until they are 


reduced to a dry marmalade. Proceed exactly as above, and 


Serve with or without whipped cream or custard in a separate 
dish. 


17.—Meringue of Pears, or other fruit. 


Fill a tart dish nearly to the brim with stewed pears, and 

Ingredients, let them be something more than 

stewed | ears or other fruits half d with thei ve faa? 

5 tablespoonsful of sifted loaf a . cOvETE wit their Own JUICE. 

sugar Whisk the whites of the eggs to 

a stiff froth, stir in the sugar, and lay the méringue lightly 

over the fruit. Bake instantly in a moderate oven for half 
an hour. 


18.—Jam ‘or Marmalade Charlotte. 
Cut five slices of bread a quarter of an inch thick; shape 


Q2 


314 DAINTY DISHES FOR INDIAN TABLES. 


Ingredients of Jam Charlotte. them to fit into a circular mould; 
Some stale bread 


6 oz. of butter lay them on a dish; dissolve the 
Any kind of jam . 
Some sifted loaf sugar butter; pour it over the bread, 
2 oz. of sweet almonds (blanch- . . 

ed and chopped) put it in the oven for ten minutes; 


when the butter is all absorbed and the bread cold, spread 
-each slice a quarter of an inch thick with jam, and over that 
sprinkle one teaspoonful of sifted sugar; butter a plain 
circular mould; strew it with the chopped almonds; lay 
in the bread and jam; place a dish over and bake in a 
quick oven for half an hour. Turn out carefully, and serve 
with or without three quarters of a pint of thick cream or 
rich custard poured over. 


19.—Charlotte a la Parisienne. 
Cut the Sponge Cake into horizontal slices half an inch 


Ingredients. thick ; spread each slice thickly 
A Sponge or Rice cake 


3 eggs with jam; replace the slices into 
4 oz, of fine pounded sugar ; _ 
1 dessertspoonful of strained their original form; beat the 
eggs to a stiff froth; stir in the 
sugar, add the strained lemon-juice. Cover the cake with 
this icing and spread it equally over; put it into a very 
gentle oven to dry. Sift some sugar over it, and serve. 


‘ rAY 
20.—Gertrude a la Creme. 


Slice the cake as above and take a round out of the centre 


Ingredients, of each piece with the cutter ; pik 
A Sponge or Rice-cake . . . ar 
3 exes the slices in their original form 
4 0z. of fine pounded sugar . . . ° ee 
1 dessertspoonful of strained ice the outside with icing prepal- 
lemon-juice 


¥ pint of cream ed as in the preceding recipe ; 
put it into the oven to dry. Just before serving fill the centre 


SWEET DISHES OR ENTREMETS. 315 


with cream whipped with raspberry or strawberry syrup, or 
else with coffee or chocolate. 


21.—Rhubarb Mould. 


Skin the rhubarb and cut it into small pieces; weigh after 


Ingredients. it is skinned and cut; put it into 
1 quart measure of rhubarb . 
1 Ibs. of sugar a stewpan with the sugar, lemon- 
_ The grated find of half lemon . oe : 
The strained juice of ,, rind and juice, and almonds; boil 
12 bitter almonds, blanched’ . tae 
and chopped fast; skim and stir till it becomes 


1 oz. of isinglass . . 
Some Devonshire cream (see a rich marmalade. Dissolve the 


recipes.) 
isinglass in two tablespoonsful of 
boiling water; add this to the marmalade. Rub a mould 
with sweet almond oil; put in the fruit and stand in a cool 
place, or on ice, till it is firmly set. Turn out and serve 
with Devonshire cream round it. 


22.—Greengage Mould. 
Follow the preceding recipe, using three pints of green- 
gages instead of the rhubarb, and the kernels blanched in- 
stead of the almonds. 


23.—Apple Mould. 


Peel, core, and cut up twelve good cooking apples; add 


Ingredients. the sugar, isinglass, lemon-rind, 
12 apples 


x Ib. vof loaf sugar \y juice and rum. Boil in a stew- 

\% oz. of isinglass | 36 ; te ee . . 

The grated rind ofone {82 pan until it is a rich jam; rub 
lemon PR ct . . 

The strained juice of | gS through a wire sieve; rub the 
one lemon ° . . . 

x sherryglass of rum Je mould slightly with salad oil or 


dissolved butter ; press in the apple, smooth over the bottom 
with a knife and let it stand in a cool place or on ice till 
quite firm. Turn out carefully, and serve with good custard, 
(see recipe) or whipped cream. 


316 DAINTY DISHES FOR INDIAN TABLES. 


24.—Spongecakes with Apple Snow. 


Put the cakes in a glass dish; stir the flavoring into 


Ingredients. the cream; pour it over the 
6 spongecakes 
% of a pint of cream cakes and let them soak for two 


2 tablespoonsful of brandy, 
curacao or rum, or zodrops OF three hours. Roast the apples 
of essence of vanilla . . . 
8 large apples till quite soft; take off the skin 
¥% Ib. of sifted loaf sugar 
The strained juice of a lemon and core, and add to half a 
The whites of two eggs 
pound of the pulp the sugar, 
lemon-juice and eggs. Beat with a whisk until in a snow 


like forth. Place it on the cakes, and serve. 


25.—Vol-au-vent of Fruit. 


Prepare a vol-au-vent according to the recipe, (see page 237) 
and fill it at the moment of serving with either greengages, apri- 
cots, plums or peaches prepared as for compotes. Pour the 
syrup over and serve with thick whipped cream piled on 
the top. This dish may be iced end is very delicious. 


26.—Rosengrotze. 


Boil the sago in the milk until it is a jelly; stir in the 


Ingredients. red current jelly ; strain through 
1 teacupful of sago . . 

1 quart of milk a tammy sieve into a mould 
1 pot of red currant jelly . . . 

% pint of thick cream (slightly oiled); leave it to set. 


Serve with whipped cream round the bottom of the dish. 


Note.—Oranges may be used instead of the jelly; the juice of si 
nd the rind of one, sweetened to taste. 


27.—Meringues. 
Whisk the whites of the eggs to a very firm froth; stir 


Ingredients. in the sugar carefully dried and 
6 whites of very fresh eggs . . 
3% Ib. of fine loaf sugar sifted. Have ready some stnps 


of thick foolscap papet about Wo inches wide; lay them 


SWEET DISHES OR ENTREMETS. 319 


side by side on a thick wooden board; take a tablespoon 
and gather it nearly full of the méringue by working it up 
the side of the bowl in the form of an egg; drop this slop- 
ingly on to the bands of paper, at the same time drawing 
the spoon sharply round the edge of the méringue to give 
it the smooth rounded look of an egg. Continue this 
process as quickly as possible till all the egg is used up; 
strew some coarsely-sifted sugar over them, and allow it to 
remain three minutes ; then lift up the end of one of the 
strips of paper, shake off the superfluous sugar, lay the 
band down again, and continue the process till all are done. 
Bake in a moderate oven for twenty or thirty minutes, or 
till they are colored a light brown and are firm to the touch. 
Take them out; dip a knife in boiling water and with it 
remove the méringues from the paper; scoop out the soft 
insides with a desertspoon and put them on a sieve in the 
oven for a few minutes to dry, the moist sides uppermost. 
When they are dry they are ready, and must be kept in a 
dry place on a sieve till wanted. They may be filled with 
jelly or whipped cream (flavored either with vanilla, or 
strawberry, or raspberry syrup), or with iced cream. 


28.—Snow Balls with Custard. 
Beat the whites of the eggs to a stiff froth; add one 


Ingredients. dessertspoonful of sugar ; put the 
4 fresh eggs . : 
3 dessertspoonstul of finely milk into a clean stewpan, add 
powdered loaf sugar . . 
¥% pint of new milk the flavouring and the remainder 
20 drops of vanilla or other . 
flavouring of the sugar ; put it over a gentle 


heat, and when it boils take a tablespoonful of the white of 
egg and drop it in the form of an egg into the milk; do this 
till all the egg is used up; let the balls simmer for four 


318 DAINTY DISHES FOR INDIAN TABLES, 


minutes, then drain on a sieve in a dry place. Beat the 
yolks of the eggs, add them to the milk, and stir overa 
slow fire till it thickens and becomes like rich cream ; strain 
it into a glass dish, and when it is quite cold lay in the 
balls carefully and send to table. 


29.—Chocolate Custards. 


Dissolve the chocolate in the water beside the fire; then 


Ingredients. boil till it 1s perfectly smooth: 
2 oz. of chocolate . . ° 
% pint of water flavour the milk with vanilla, add 
E45, 9, new milk : . 
% drops of vanilla It to the chocolate, sweeten with 
eggs . ° : 
oz, of sugar the sugar, and when it boils str 


va pint of cream 


in the yolks of the eggs well 
beaten and strained. Put this custard into a jar or jug; set 
it in a pan of boiling water and stir without ceasing till it is 
thick; stir in the cream carefully. When it is cold pour it 
into a glass dish or into custard cups and serve with sponge 
or rice cake. 


30.—Currant Custard. 


Boil the sugar in the currant-juice for three minutes ; take 


dnc redients, off the scum ; beat the eggs well; 
1 pint of currant-juice es oye 
10 v2. of sugar pour the juice, boiling, on to 
ib eggs . . 
13 pint of cream them; put the custard into a ju 


2 tablespoonsful of lemon-juice . . wee 
or jar in a pan of boiling water, 


ani stir carefully till it is thick; pour it out, stir till nearly 
cold, add the cream and lemon-juice. 

Apple, strawberry, and quince custards are made in the 
same way. 


31.—Duke’s Custard. 
Drain the cherries from their juice and roll them in sifted 


SWEET DISHES OR ENTREMETS. 319 


Ingredients of Duke's Custard. 


¥% pint of brandied morella 
cherries 
13 pints of rich cold custard (see 
reci 
¥% pint of thick cream 
1 wineglassful of brandy 
oz. of sugar 
The j juice of oT half a large lemon 
zo drops of cochineal 


sugar; cover the bottom of a 
glass dish thickly with them ; pour 
the custard over them; garnish 
the edge with macaroons or 
Naples biscuits; whip the cream 
with the lemon-juice, brandy and 


cochineal, pile it on the custard, and serve. 


32.—Buttered Apples. 
Pare the apples and core them without piercing them or 


ingredients. 


6 or 8 fine apples 

6 oz. of fresh butter 

6 to 8 oz. of sugar 

x teaspoonful of cinnamon 
Some apricot jam 


dividing them ; fill their cavities 
with the butter; put the remain- 
der of the butter, cut small, into 
a stewpan which will just hold the 


apples in a single layer; place them in, close together, and 
stew them as gently as possible, turning them occasionally 
ill they are almost tender enough to serves strew the sugar 
on them, add the cinnamon, shake these well among the 
fruit, and stew for a few minutes longer. Take out the fruit, 
arrange it on a hot dish; put into each apple as much apri- 
cot jam as it will hold and lay a small quantity on the top; 
pour the syrup from the pan round but not over the apples, 
and serve at once with or without whipped cream. 


33.—Stewed Apples or Pears. 
Pare them carefully and scoop out the core without 


Ingredients. 


6 apples 
10 drops of cochineal 

1 clove 

1 inch of cinnamon 

The thin rind of half a lemon 
The strained juice of half lemon 
3 wineglass of whiskey 


breaking them ; throw them into 
a basin of cold water as you do 
them; take a shallow pan in 
which they can lie in one layer 
without touching each other, pot 


320 DAINTY DISHES FOR INDIAN TABLES. 


in enough water to cover them half-way up, with the cochi- 
neal, clove, cinnamon, lemon-rind, and juice. Boil them 
uncovered and watch carefully so as to turn them when the 
lower side is done. When they are quite tender take them 
out. Drain the water in which they were boiled through 
a sieve, add loaf sugar to it in the proportion of one pound 
to one pint; add the whiskey; simmer gently until in a 
very thick syrup; place the apples in a glass dish, puta 
morella cherry on the top of each, pour the syrup round 
(not over), and serve with Devonshire cream in a separate 
dish. 


34.—Rice and Almond Mould. 
Blanch the almonds and pound them to a soft paste; 


Ingredients. wash the rice; put them intoa 
2 o7. of sweet almonds . 
6 bitter almonds saucepan with the sugar and 
6 oz. of rice . . . 
64, . sugar milk, and simmer till perfectly 
1 quart of milk . 
3, pint of thick cream tender (about 11 hours) ; dip a 


mould into cold water, press in the rice, and let it stand in 
a cold place or on ice for four or five hours. Turn out 
carefully, and serve with stewed prunes or other fruit ; pour 
the cream over it, and serve. 


35-—_Lemon Rice Mould. 
Wash the rice and boil it in the milk with the sugar and 


dngredients. lemon-rind till tender (about 
6 oz. of rice . . 
1 quart of milk 1% hours) Dip a mould in 


6 oz. of sugar . . 
The grated rind of two lemons cold water, press in the rice, and 
Lemon marmalade . . 
% pint of thick cream let it stand in a cold place fo 
four hours. Serve with lemon marmalade round and the 


cream poured over. 


SWEET DISHES OR ENTREMETS. 321 


36.—Shape of Rice. 


Simmer the rice in the milk with the vanilla until quite 


Ingredients. tender ; add the sugar, boil gent- 
X% bb. of rice . . . 
r quart of milk ly until the rice is dry; beat the 
2 oz. of loaf sugar 


The yolk of one egg yolk, stir it in; put the rice in 
20 drops of vanilla . 
a mould and let it stand for three 
or four hours until well set. Serve with rich custard and 
stewed fruit. 


37.—Shape of Ground Rice. 


Mix the rice smoothly into a quarter of a pint of the 


Ingredients. milk; boil the remainder of the 
2 02. of rice . . . . 
1% pints of milk milk ; pour it on the rice and stir 
34 oz. of butter . 
I egg, well beaten over the fire for ten minutes. 
74 Gloven of glage cher Add the b h i 
x agozen 0 chernes oc 
x dozen meh the butter, the egg (we 


beaten), and the sugar; stir over 
the fire for two or three minutes. Dip a mould in cold 
water ; soak the cherries in the brandy, stir them into the rice, 
and pour it into the mould. Let it stand three or four 
hours till set; turn out carefully, pour a little syrup round 
the base, and serve. 


38.—Once a Week. 
Wash the rice; let it stand in the milk Jdeside the fire 


Ingredients. for an hour to swell; add the 
4 02. of rice . *y ott 
x quart of milk sugar and vanilla and boil till it 
4 oz. of powdered loaf sugar . 
gn vanilla sugar is tender (about 114 hours) and 
oo, 9» 1SiIngiass ° 
int of thick : i 
4, pint of nck ear recipes) all the milk absorbed ; stand it 
20 drops of vanilla aside covered to get cold; put 


the isinglass in a cup with three tablespoonsful of cold milk ; 
let it stand an hour; put the cup ina small saucepan with 


Pr 


322 DAINTY DISHES FOR INDIAN TABLES. 


boiling water in it (a dain-marie) for three minutes; stir it 
till cool, add it to the rice, and stir it; whip half the cream, 
stir it into the rice; dip a mould in cold water, press in the 
rice and let it stand twelve hours, (or on ice till set) ; when 
it is ready to serve turn it out carefully, pour the custard 
over ; whip the remainder of the cream with the vanilla and 
pour over, serve.at once. 


ew 


39.—Sweet Rice. 
Wash the rice and boil it in the milk with the sugar for 


Ingredients. one and a half hours. Let the 
oz. of rice : 
12 pints of new milk rice stand off the fire for five 
4 oz. of loaf sugar . 
4 eggs minutes ; beat the eggs well, add 
2 oz. of sweet almonds . . . 
13 gill of thick cream them to the rice; stir in the 


cream ; stir over the fire till at boiling heat ; take it off, and 
let it stand, stirring occasionally, till nearly cold. Putit 
into a glass dish and stand ina cold place for two hours. 
Blanch and pound the almonds, bake them in a moderate 
oven till browned through ; pound them to dust; strew over 
the rice, and serve with or without preserve or fruit. 


40.—Sweet Macaroni. 


soil the milk; drop in the macaroni gently; add the 


Jagnndients, salt and lemon-rind. Simmer 
ite. pints of new milk . . 
i pinch of alt gently until the macaroni is toler- 
we. af aavcareni 
‘The thin rind of one lemon ably tender; then add the sugar 
3 ag, ob sugar : : .. 
The yolks af 4 exxs and boil till the macaroni is soft 


Sone crushed macarons 


and swollen to its full size ; drain 
and lay it on a hot dish. Beat the yolks, pour the milk on 
to them, stir quickly and shake it over the fire tll it thict- 
ens; pour this over the macaroni at once and sift the 


SWEET DISHES OR ENTREMETS. 323 


macaroons over them. Serve with or without apple mar- 
malade or stewed fruit. 


Note.—The whites of the eggs may be beaten to a froth, mixed with 
four tablespoonsful of sifted loaf sugar and baked in the oven so as to 
form a méringue if desired. 


41.—Portuguese Macaroni. 


Soak the macaroni in the cold water for one hour, drain 


Iugredients. ona Sieve, put it in a saucepan 
3 oz. of macaroni . . 
T quart of water with one and a half pints of the 
3% pints of new milk . . . 
1 inch of vanilla milk and vanilla, and simmer 
4 oz. of loaf sugar 
5 eggs gently for two hours. Take out 
1 wineglassful of brandy . 

ay Cream the vanilla, add the loaf sugar 
1 oz. of crushed macaroons 


and a quarter of a pint of the 
milk ; simmer for twenty minutes; stand off the fire for ten 
minutes ; stir in the eggs, well beaten; stir over the fire till 
at boiling heat; add the brandy and cream. When nearly 
cold put it in a glass dish, let it stand in a cold place for 
two hours; strew the macaroon powder over, and serve. 


42.— Portuguese Tapioca. 
Is prepared precisely as above, only it is not soaked in 
cold water. 
43.—Rice Croquettes. 


Wash and drain the rice; put it into a saucepan with 


Ingredients. the sugar, lemon-rind, cinnamon 
3 oz. of good rice . . 
3 yy _ yy Sugar and milk; stir frequently and 
The thin rind of half a lemon . 
1 inch of cinnamon boil for three quarters of an hour ; 


Nearly a pint of fresh milk . . 
rub through a fine wire sieve; 


beat three of the eggs, yolks and 
whites separately; add the yolks to the rice; beat for ten 


3 eggs 
6 oz. of butter 


324 DAINTY DISHES FOR INDIAN TABLES. 


minutes; add the whites; beat five minutes more; make 
up into balls the size of walnuts, dip each into the yolks of 
two beaten eggs, then into sifted loaf sugar, and fry in butter 
till of a pale brown color. Dry them on a sieve covered 
with a sheet of blotting paper or a soft white cloth. Pile 
on a hot dish, and serve with or without stewed fruit or jam, 
or whipped raspberry cream (which makes this a very deli- 
cious dish). 


44.—Finer Croquettes of Rice. 
Wipe the rice very clean in a dry cloth; put it intoa 


Ingredients. clean stewpan and pour the milk 
7 oz. of rice . . : 
1 quart of milk. on it; add the vanilla, and let tt 
25 drops of vanilla ° 
5 oz. of sugar swell gently by the side of the 
bitter almonds blanched and te . 
pounded fire, stirring that it may not bum 
Some fine bread-crumbs 
2 yolks of eggs for three quarters of an hour. 


Some butter _ 
stir in sugar and almond powder 


and simmer the rice for three quarters of an hour till it is 
very thick and dry ; spread it on a dish to dry, and when its 
quite cold roll it into balls; dip these in beaten eggs and 
then cover carefully with bread-crumbs. When all are ready 
fry them in plenty of butter, a light brown color, and dry 
them before the fire on a sieve with a sheet of blotting 
paper on it. Pile hot on a dish, and serve at once with one 
pint of cream whipped with some raspberry or strawberry 
syrup. 


45.—Gooseberry Fool. 


Boil the gooseberries with their own syrup, the lemon-rind, 


Ingredients. juice, and sugar till it is quite 2 
t bottle of gooseberries h . . 
The juice of asmall lemon pulp; pass through a hair sieve; 


SWEET DISHES OR ENTREMETS. 325 


Ingredients of Gooseberry Fool. add the cream, and whip till it 
The peel of half the lemon 


34 tb. of sugar thickens. Serve with sponge 
1 pint of cream 
cakes. 


Note.—Apple Fool is made in precisely the same way, substituting a 
bottle of apples for the gooseberries. 


CREAMS, BLANC-MANGER, AND JELLIES. 


1.—Vanilla, Coffee, or Fruit Syrup Cream. 


Dissolve the isinglass in warm water. Boil half-pint of 


cueredienis. the cream with the sugar ; take 

11f pints of cream 

8 oz. of sugar the cream off the fire and when 
5 eggs er 

1% oz. of isinglass it 1s slightly cooled add the well- 


1 gill of water. ; ‘ 
25 drops of vanilla, or any kind beaten yolks of the eggs ; mix 
Oo 


fruit syrup, or a cup of 

strong coffee well; put on the fire again and 
beat with a whisk until it thickens ; lift it off the fire and 
add the dissolved isinglass warm, whisking all the while; 
whip the remainder of the cream, stir it to the rest ; add the 
flavoring syrup or coffee ; rub a mould with oil of almonds, 
pour in the cream and stand it in a cool place or on Ice 
until firmly set. When it is ready dip the mould in hot 


water, wipe it, and turn it out. 


_2.—Chocolate Cream. 


Boil the half pint of cream; melt the isinglass in the 


Ingredients set of water, add it to the cream; add 
¥% pint and 3 tablespoonsfui o 
7 Pieteam ’ the chocolate and sugar to the 
% oz. of isinglass . 
t gill of water cream ; lift the cream off the fire 
1% Ib. of chocolate (finely oe . 

grated) and when it 1s a little cooled add 
1% lb. of sugar (pounded and . 

sifted the yolks and whites of the eggs 
6 yolks of eggs . 
2 whites well beaten ; boil the three table- 


25 drops of vanilla ; 
spoonsful of cream, add it to the 


rest; put the pan on the fire and whip the mixture well tll 


CREAMS, BLANC-MANGER, AND JELLIES. 327 


it thickens ; add the vanilla. Ruba mould with oil of al- 
monds, pour in the cream and set in a cool place, or on ice. 
Dip the mould in hot water, wipe it, and turn out the cream, 


3.—Chocolate Cream, made without Cream. 


Dissolve the sugar and gelatine in the milk for ten mi- 


Ingredients. 


6 oz. of chocolate (grated) 

x pint of new milk 

6 oz. of sugar (pounded and 
sifted) 

8 yolks of eggs 

2 oz. of gelatine 


nutes ; stir in the chocolate; lift 
the pan off the fire; when it is 
slightly cooled add the yolks of 
the eggs well beaten ; strain it into 


a basin; put it on the fire again, and whisk well till it 
thickens ; dip a mould in cold water, put in the cream, and 
place on ice till firmly set. Turn out and serve immediately. 


4.—Ratafia Cream. 


' Dissolve the sugar and isinglass in the milk for ten mi- 


Ingredients. 


4 02. of ratafias 

8 yolks of eggs 

1 wineglassful of curacao 

1 stick of cinnamon (bruised) 
The thin rind of one orange 

1 pint of milk 

6 oz. of sugar 

2 5) », gelatine 

% pint of cream 

2 0z, Of preserved ginger, 


chopped 
2 oz. of dried cherries 
2 4, », candied peel, chopped 


nutes, add the ratafias, cinnamon, 
and orange rind; take the mix- 
ture off the fire; when it is slight- 
ly cooled add the well beaten 
yolks and curacao; put it on the 
fire, whisk well, when it thickens 
pass it through a hair sieve into a 
basin; whip the cream, add it to 


the mixture with all the remaining ingredients; mix well; 
dip a mould in cold water, pour in the cream, imbed it on 
ice ; when ready, dip the mould in hot water, wipe it, turn 


out the cream, and serve. 


5.—Caramel Cream. 


Put the sugar, cinnamon, lemon-peel, and half the water 


328 DAINTY DISHES FOR INDIAN TABLES, 


Ingredients of Caramel Cream. into a stewpan and boil until it is 
4 02. of sugar 


1 bruised stick of cinnamon of a light brown ; add the remain- 
The peel of one lemon 
x gill of water der of the water, the beaten yolks, 
yolks of eggs . . 

x pint of mill milk and sugar ; stir over the fire 
24 pint ofcream . till it thickens ; pass it through a 
2 oz. of gelatine (dissolved in a . _ . 

little warm water) hair sieve into a basin; add the 


cream whipped, and the dissolved gelatine ; mix well; dipa 
mould in cold water, pour in the cream, set in a cold place or 
on ice. 


6.—Italian Cream. 


Dissolve the isinglass and sugar in the milk; boil slowly 


Ingredients. for ten minutes; strain into a basin, 
% oz. of isinglass . 
% oz. of loaf sugar add the cream and flavoring ; tum 
¥% pint of new milk . . . . 
rpintofrichcream it rapidly with a whisk over the 
35 drops of essence of vanilla or eee . . . 
any kind of fruit syrup fire till it begins to thicken ; dip a 


mould in cold water, put in the cream and place it on ice 
till firmly set. ‘Turn out carefully, and serve at once. 


7.—Ginger Cream. 
Make a cream asin the preceding recipe (Italian cream) 


Ingredients. omitting the vanilla ; cut the gin- 
Nb ed niet ar oe le ger into small pieces and add it 
syrup and the syrup to the cream, stirring 


continually till it begins to set that the ginger may not sink 
to the bottom. 


8.—Celestine Cream. 
Imbed a mould in rough ice; dissolve the isinglass in 


Ingredients. water, add the maraschino ; dip 
Some fala aawbernes each strawberry in the isinglass 
ten and line the bottom and sides of 


r teaspoonful of maraschino the mould with them ; when itis 


CREAMS, BLANC-MANGER, AND JELLIES. 329 


completely lined fill it up with the cream, and when it is 
ready turn out carefully and serve. 


9.—Quince, Apple, or Currant Jelly Cream. 


Melt the jelly; dissolve the isinglass in it; whip the cream; 


Ingredients. pour the boiling jelly into it, stir- 
b. pot of jel ; ; . ee 
oe. of Eringlass y ring briskly; continue stirring till 


% pint of cream nearly cold; dip a mould in cold 


water, pour in the cream, and set in a cold place or on ice, 


10.—Bavarian Cream. 


Crush the strawberries with a wooden spoon; strew eight 


Ingredients, — ounces of the sugar over them ; 
x quart of strawberries 


12 oz. of sugar pounded & sifted let them stand three hours ; turn 


2 , 5, isinglass 


x pint of new milk them into a fine hair sieve and rub | 
1% 5) » thick cream . oe 
The juice of one lemon them through it. Melt the isin- 


glass in the milk over the fire ; add the sugar ; strain through 
muslin ; add the cream ; stir till nearly cold ; add the straw- 
berries gradually; whisk briskly together; add the lemon-juice 
by degrees; dip a mould in cold water, pour in the cream, 
and set in a cold place for twelve hours. 


11.—Strawberry Cream. 


Dissolve the isinglass, pass it through a piece of muslin; 


Ingredients. pick the stalks off the straw- 
¥% ofa pint of fresh strawberries . . . 
6 oz. of sifted sugar berries ; bruise them with a wood- 
10 drops of cochineal . . 
1 pint of whipped cream en spoon in a basin, add the 


2 oz. of isinglass . . 
sugar and cochineal, mix well ; 


add the cream and isinglass, whisk together; dip a mould 
in cold water, put in the cream, imbed it in ice. When 
ready, dip the mould in hot water, wipe it, and turn out the 
cream carefully. | 


Q2 


330 DAINTY DISHES FOR INDIAN TABLES. 


12.—Raspberry Cream. 
Prepare as in the preceding, substituting raspberries for 
strawberries. 


13.—Apricot or Peach Cream. 
Dissolve the isinglass in the milk and pass it through fine 


Ingredients. muslin; put it into a saucepan 
1 oz. of isinglass . . . 

1 pint of new milk (or cream) with the sugar, and when it boil; 
1 pint of cream . . 

3 oz. of sugar stir in the cream » pass the apricot 
4 lb. of apricot or peach jam* 


1 tablespoonful of lemon-juice jam through a sieve ; add it, a 
* When peach jam is used add spoonful at a time, to the cream; 
seven drops of cochineal . . 
mix It very smoothly and continue 
stirring after you put it into the mould till it is nearly cold 
that the fruit may not sink to the bottom. 


14.—Pineapple Cream. 
Pare off the outside of the pineapple ; peel it sufficiently 


Ingredients. thick to take off all the eyes; put 
1 small ripe pineapple* . . 
1% pint of water the peel into a saucepan with the 
g oz. of loaf sugar (in powder) ty ee 
2 tablespoonsful of brandy water, and boil it till the flavour 
34 of an ounce of isinglass . . . 
3 of a pint of rich cream is extracted; strain the liquor 


* Preserved pine jelly may be and let it get cold. Cut the fruit 


used instead of the fresh half pint . : 
of the syrup. In this case three into half inch squares ; Strew the 


ounces of sugar boiled with the 

isinglass will be sufficient sugar over it, add the brandy, let 
it saturate for two hours; then pour the liquor on to it, put 
it on the fire and boil fast for ten minutes, skimming 
constantly ; add the isinglass ; boil ten minutes more ; pour 
it into a basin; whip the cream, add it to the fruit, whisk- 
ing constantly ; stir briskly till the mixture begins to thick- 
en; dip a mould in cold water (or rub it with oil of sweet 


almonds,) pour in the cream and place it on ice till firmly 


CREAMS, BLANC-MANGER, AND JELLIES. 331 


set ; stir it for ten minutes after placing it on the ice to 
prevent the fruit from sinking to the bottom. 


15.—Milanese Cream. 


Dissolve the sugar in the milk over the fire for five mi- 


Ingredients. nutes; dissolve the isinglass in 

1 pint of milk : 
) oz. of loaf sugar the water; take the milk off the 
499 099 isinglass 

1 gill of water fire; beat the yolks of the eggs, 
The yolks of 8 fresh eggs . . . 
1 gill of thick cream and when the milk is slightly 
35 drops of vanilla 


cooled pour it on to them; stir 
over a gentle fire till at boiling heat; add the isinglass and 
cream; stir well; add the vanilla; rub the mould with 


oll of sweet almonds, and let 1 it stand in a cool place until 
firmly set. 


16.—Lemon Cream. 


Dissolve the sugar and isinglass in the water; add the 


Jugredients. lemon-juice and rind; boil and 
1 Ib. Of loaf sugar . “wy . 
3 oz. of isinglass skim till in a thick syrup, then 


1 gill of water . . . . 
The strained juice of two le. strain; whisk the cream into It; 
mons ° ° ° ° ° ° 
The thin rind of two lemons continue whisking till it begins 

¥% of a pint of thick cream . , 
to thicken; pour it into a mould, 


and place on ice till firmly set. 


17,—Lemon Sponge. 
Infuse the lemon-rind in half the cream by the side of 


Ingredients. the fire; add the isinglass, and 
1 pint of cream 


The rinds of two medium sized when it is dissolved put in the 
emons 


Y% of an ounce of isinglass sugar; do not let it boil, but 
oz. OF Sugar . . . e 
The juice of 134 lemons simmer until the sugar 1s dis- 


solved and the milk well flavored with lemon ; then stirin the 
remainder of the cream and strain immediately into a large 


332 DAINTY DISHES FOR INDIAN TABLES. 


bowl or pan. When it is quite cold add the lemon-juice, 
whisking well all the time; when the cream begins to get 
thick, whisk it lightly to a sponge, and pour it into an oiled 
mould; when it is to be served, dip the mould into hot water, 
Wipe it and turn the sponge out carefully. 


18.—Swiss Cream. 


Boil the sugar and lemon-rind in the milk; let it get 


Ingredients. cold; stir in the flour and cream; 


6 az. of loaf su “, e 

‘The thin rind of half a lemon put it into an enamelled sauce- 
Vy pint of new milk . . 

v tablespoonful: of Oswego pan ( or a basin inside a sauce 


flour 


1 pint of good cream pan with boiling water) and stir 
The strained juice of one lange . eye 
lemon over a gentle fire till boiling; 
1 oF, of ratafias . . 
vay Macaroans strain into a basin, and when 


1 Th of any kind of j jam . 
nearly cold add the lemon-juice 


strained. Lay the ratafias and macaroons in a glass dish; 
spread the jam over them and pour the cream over ; let 
stand in a cool place for three hours before serving. 


19.—Velvet Cream. 


Boil the sugar, lemon-peel and cinnamon in the milk: 


Pag ds is, beat the eggs and add the flour. 
Spinto mew miik oo. . . 
av. of loaf sugar slrring till quite smooth : let 
Phe thin Find of hat a cemen . . 
rineh of cinmamon the milk stand off the fire fer 


g fresh cays . 
2 “Re itsponsfal of Oswego tem minutes: strain the eggs 1- 
te @ 


«seein of eseiee of Vania to it, stirring all the time. Pe 

at ANOMe of preserved green: ; s 

«oR ake sugar the mixture Into a saucepan and 

aN “ae cakes a4 : “7 . - a er 

Twmegastes of ince: sur it over a slow fre til t 
wine thickens; pour it into a basis. 


and when nearly cold add the vanilla. Boil the juice of the 
reengages with the sugar for ten minutes, add it to the fruz: 
Scakes across the centre, lay them on 2 glass 


G 


cut the spon 


§% 


CREAMS, BLANC-MANGER, AND JELLIES. 333 


dish, pour the ginger wine over them; lay the greengages 
round, pour the cream over, and let it remain in a cool place 
for three hours. 


20.—Stone Cream. 


Dissolve the isinglass in the least possible quantity of 


Ingredients. warm water; stir it into the 
1 pint of rich cream . 
34 oz. of isinglass cream. Put the fruit or pre- 
Any kind of jam or preserved . . 
fruit serve into a glass dish, pour the 
A little angelica . . 
Some dried cherries cream over and let it stand ina 


cool place for three hours. Cut the angelica into small pieces 
and decorate the top of the cream with it and a few cherries. 


A ‘ 
21.—Creme au The. 


Put the tea into a teapot and pour the milk, boiling, on to 


Ingredients. it ; let it stand till cold ; pour it off . 

¥ pint of cream oe . 
Ty, 9, milk and strain it if necessary ; put it 
3% of an ounce of isinglass . . 7. 

t pinch of salt into a stewpan with the insinglass 

4 0z. of sugar . . 

2 spoonsful of good orange and sugar; simmer gently till both 
The yolks of five eggs are dissolved ; beat the eggs, add 


the milk to them hot, but not boiling; strain ; stir in the cream ; 
stir over the fire till it thickens; dip a mould in cold water, 
pour in the’cream, and put in a cool place or on ice to set. 


22.—Millefruit Cream. 


Boil the isinglass and sugar in the water for half an hour ; 
Ingredients. put in the fruit; whisk till nearly 


1 teaspoonful each of preserved . . 
strawberries, apricots, rasp- cold ; whip the cream, add it to 
berries, currants, greengages, . . . 
ginger, pineapple, & plums = the fruit, mix well; put it ina 

1 ounce of isinglass 


1 pint of water mould, imbed it in ice, leave it to 
3 oz. of sugar 


1 pint of rich cream set; turn out carefully and serve. 


334 DAINTY DISHES FOR INDIAN TABLES. 


23.—Franchipane Cream. 


Put the yolks, flour, sugar, lemon-rind, and orange flow- 


Ingredients. ers into a saucepan; beat with 
The yolks of 5 fresh eggs . . ; 
1 tab espoonful of Oswego flour a wooden spoon till well mixed; 
20z. of sifted loaf sugar : : 
‘The grated rind of one lemon add the milk; stir over a gentle 
% teaspoonful of orange flow- i . . 
ers, (candied or fresh and fire for ten minutes after it bolls ; 


chopped fine) . oe 
¥ pint of new milk take it off, and when it is nearly 
1 0z. of sweet al- ) Blanched 

_monds and cold add the almonds and cream; 
7 bitter almonds pounded . . . . 
16 gill of thick cream stir rapidly till quite cold. Serve 


in a glass dish with any kind of preserved fruit or jam. 


24.—Rheinish Cream. 


Blanch the almonds and pound them to a paste; add 


Ingredients, half a pint of the water while 
2 0z. of sweet almonds : . 
12 bitter almonds pounding; let it stand for an 
1¥4 pints of cold wat . 
7 oz. of loaf sugar. hour. Dissolve the sugar and 
1 4, 9, isinglass . . . . 
‘The grated rind of one orange —«iSInglass in one pint of the water: 
The ,, +) oy 99. lemon ° 
The strained juice of both add the orange and lemon-rind, 


‘The yolks of 7 fresh eggs , os 
the strained juice and almonds. 


Simmer ten minutes, strain into a basin. Beat the yolks, 
add them to the rest, and stir over the fire till a boiling heat. 
Strain the mixture into a mould and place in a cool place 
or on ice till firmly set. 


25.—A good Common Blanc-Manger. 


Blanch and bruise the almonds ; put them and the 


lugredients. lemon-rind into the milk to in- 
112 pints of new milk cer 
The rind of one small lemon fuse ; add the sugar and _ 1sin- 
8 bitter almonds . 
_} oF of sugar class; boil gently over a clear fire 
<2 rd) Ss ng ass . ee ° e e 
by pint of cream until the isinglass is quite dissolv- 


1 sherryglass of brandy -. 
ed; take off the scum, stir in the 


CREAMS, BLANC-MANGER, AND JELLIES. 335 


cream, strain the blanc-manger into a mould; add the brandy 
by degrees ; stir it gently with a spoon to keep the cream 
from setting on the surface. Leave it in a cool place, or on 
ice till set. 


26.—A Rich Blanc-Manger. 
Blanch the almonds ; pound them to a paste; add the water 


Ingredients. while pounding; let it stand for 
1 oz. of isinglass . 
Sy)» loafsugar two hours; pour off the liquid; 
2 inches of stick vanilla : . 
2 y 55 , cinnamon put the milk, half pint of the 
¥% pint of milk . 
34. cream cream, the sugar, cinnamon and 

2 oz. of sweet almonds ; . 

10 bitter almonds vanilla into a saucepan, and boil 


¥ pint of cold water 


slowly till dissolved; add the 
isinglass ; when it is dissolved strain into a basin; stir in 
the almonds and the remainder of the cream; when cool 
pour the mixture into a mould, and let it remain in a cool 
place till firmly set, or on ice for an hour. 


27.—American Blanc-Manger. 
Peel the nuts and pound them to a paste; add the water 


Ingredients. while pounding ; let it stand two 
8 or 10 Brazil nuts 
r gill of water hours to extract the flavour. Beat 
4 Iresh eggs . . 
5 tablespoonsful of Oswego the eggs, mix them with the flour ; 
our 
4 oz, of loaf sugar dissolve the sugar in the milk, 


1 pint of new milk . 
Some preserved mango, ginger add the nuts, simmer five mi- 


or guava jelly 
nutes ; stand off the fire five mi- 
nutes; strain on to the eggs, stirring quickly at the same 
time ; stir over a gentle fire till it thickness. Pour the 
mixture into a mould, and put it in a cool place or on ice 
till firmly set. Turn out carefully and garnish with preserve 
or jelly. 


336 DAINTY DISHES FOR INDIAN TABLES, 


28.—Quince or Currant Juice Blanc-Manger. 


Ingredients. Boil the juice and dissolve the 
¥% of apint of quince or cur- oe . 
rant-juice. * isinglass in it; add the sugar, 


1¥% oz. of isinglass . . 

9 y) » Sugar boil up and strain ; add the cream 
¥% of a pint of cream . . 
by degrees ; stir well; when it is 


lukewarm pour it into the mould. 


* These can be procured in_bot- 
tles. If sysufis used then 
omit the sugar. 


29.—Jaune-Manger or Dutch Flummery. 


Put the lemon-rind, sugar and water in a saucepan, stir 
Ingredients. them over a gentle fire for three 
The rind of one lemon . ; 
8 oz. of sugar or four minutes ; Jeave by the side 
I pint of water . . 
2 oz. of isinglass of the fire for ten minutes to infuse. 
The juice of four lemons _ . nec ee 
The yolks of eight eggs Add the isinglass, stir till it is 
1 pint of sherry . ; 
dissolved, add the strained lemon- 
juice and sherry (or other wine); beat the eggs, pour the mix- 
ture on to them, whisk briskly, and pass through a very clean 
hair sieve. Put it into a jar, stand this in boiling water, and 
stir till it thickens ; turn it out into a bowl; when it cools 
dip a mould in water and pour the mixture into it. Stand 
in a cool place, or on ice to set. 


30.—Rice Blanc-Manger. 


Blanch the almonds and pound them to a paste, adding 


Ingredients. 


2 oz, of sweet almonds _ 

to bitter almonds 

1 a pint of cold water 

3 oz. of rice 

6 oz. of loaf sugar 

The thin rind of half lemon 

2 inches of cinnamon 

1 inch of stick vanilla 
1¥ pints of new milk 

¥% of an oz. of tsinglass 


simmer gently for ten 


the water while pounding; let 
this stand for two hours. Boil 
the rice, sugar, lemon-rind, cinn2- 
mon and vanilla in the milk 
When the rice is in a pulp put in 
the almonds with the liquid; 


minutes; add the isinglass, and 


CREAMS, BLANC-MANGER, AND JELLIES. 337 


when it is dissolved, rub the whole through a fine hair sieve. 
Put into a mould and let it remain in a cool place till firm. 
Serve with or without cream poured over it. 


31.—Calves’ Feet Jelly. 
Wash the feet well and split them; put them in a stew- 


Ingredients, pan with the water; boil up 
2 large calves’ feet . . . 
a5, Bints of cold water quickly ; skim, and simmer very 
e strained juice of four large ; . - 

emons 
The. thin rind of two larg gently, skimming frequently for 

emons 1 ° ni 
on es. cinnamon six hours ; strain into an earthen 
heehee of ce pes uncovered pan and let it remain 


14 Nr Madea in a cool place until the next day. 


Take off the fat carefully and wipe the surface of the jelly 
with a soft warm cloth to absorb any fat that remains. Put 
the jelly into a bright stewpan, with lemon-rind and juice, 
the cinnamon and sugar; boil up; beat the whites of the 
eggs with the water; throw them into the jelly and stir 
‘rapidly with a wire whisk for twenty minutes, boiling as 
fast as possible all the time. Draw it aside and let it sim- 
mer uncovered, for twenty minutes more; strain through a 
jelly bag; add the wine. If not quite bright strain a 
second time. Put the jelly in a mould, aud let it stand 
on ice for an hour. 


32.—Another Recipe for Calves’ Feet Jelly. 
Wash the feet well and split them; put them in a stew- 


Ingredients, pan with the water, and boil un- 
calves’ feet . ; . 
+ gallon of water til the liquor is reduced to two 
I Bottle of sherry tt 
3, lbs. of sugar quarts; strain into an uncovered 
e juice of 6 lemons a . 
The rind of 3, earthen pan. When it is quite 
The whites and shells of 8 eggs 
3% of an ounce of isinglass firm and cold take off the fat 


RR 


338 DAINTY DISHES FOR INDIAN TABLES. 


and sediment; put the jelly into a stewpan with the sherry, 
sugar, lemon-juice, the six whites of the eggs and their 
shells finely crushed. 

Let this remain a few minutes to dissolve the sugar ; then 
put the pan on the fire and let the jelly be brought to boil 
gradually, but do not stir it after it begins to heat ; when it 
begins to boil drop in the isinglass. Boil it for ten minutes, 
and let it stand for a few moments before it 1s poured into 
the jelly bag. Put the thin lemon-rind into the bag, strain 
the jelly through it into a bowl underneath, and repeat this 
process twice if the jelly be not clear. Dip the mould 
(which should be earthenware) into the cold water; when 
the jelly is cool and clear put it in and leave it to set. 


33.—Orange Calves’ Feet Jelly. 


Prepare the calves’ feet stock as above, boiling it till it s 


Ingredients. reduced to one and a half pints: 
2 Calves’ feet 
5 pints of water then add the orange and lemon 


1 pint of strained orange-juice 


The strained juice of two le. juice, the rind, and sugar. Stir 
mons 


The very thin rind ofr orange gently over the fire till the scum 
”? 99 ” I emon ° 
6 oz. of sugar (broken small) begins to form but not at all after: 
1 pinch of isinglass .. . 
wards ; add the isinglass ; boil up; 
simmer gently for ten minutes, take it off the fire, let it stand 
a little and pour it through a jelly bag till perfectly cles. 
Pour into a mould, and stand on ice. 


34.—Lemon Calves’ Feet Jelly. 


Follow the recipes for Calves’ Feet Jelly, adding halfs 
pint of clear lemon-juice, and the rinds of three large lemons 


CREAMS, BLANC-MANGER, AND JELLIES. 339 


35.—To clarify Isinglass for Jelly. 
Beat the white of egg with the water and put it with the 


Ingredients. isinglass into a delicately clean 
f ising! . 
74 oF at of filtered water stewpan ; stir well together and 
t ful of beaten whit . 
, “Of ese nee ws heat very gradually by the side of 


a gentle fire, taking care that the isinglass does not stick to the 
pan. In two or three miuutes the scum will rise ; skim it off, 
boil it up, strain it through muslin, and set it by for use. It 
should be perfectly transparent, and when lukewarm may be 
mixed with fruit syrups, or melted currant, apple, or quince 
jellies, and moulded at once. 


36.—To clarify Syrup for Jellies. 
Put the ingredients into a delicately clean stewpan ; whisk 


Ingredients. well ; boil gently for five minutes, 
3 Ibs. of loaf- ; 
7 quart of water adding a few drops of cold water 
The white of an egg 


occasionally ; strain through a nap- 
kin into a basin. The juice of fruit and clarified isinglass 
added to the above and flavored with liqueur makes most 
delicious jellies. 


37.—Fine Orange Jelly. 
When the syrup is nearly cold, put in the orange and . 
Ingredients. lemon-rind, and the orange and 


Clarified isinglass (sce recipe) es oe . 
Clarified syrup (see recipe and lemon-juice ; when it is cold stir 


use half the quantities) . os . 
The very thin rind of four in the isinglass and strain through 
oranges . . ° 
The very thin rind of two a plece of muslin folded in four. 
The juice of seven oranges Lay a china mould incold water 
‘he ,, _ ,, three lemons . . 
for some time ; take it out, pour 
in the jelly ; when it is wanted for table, wrap it in a cloth 
which has been dipped in boiling water and loosen the edges 
with a knife, 


340 DAINTY DISHES FOR INDIAN TABLES. 


38.—Strawberry Jelly. 


Bruise the fruit slightly, powder it with sugar, and let the 


Ingredients. juice flow from it for an hour or 
Clarified isinglass (see recipe) . ‘ 
Clarified sugar (see recipe and © twO; pour a little water over it, and 

_use half the quantities) . P 
1 pint of strawberry juice, or when the clarified sugar is nearly 
syrup, or two quarts of ripe 


strawberries col 
3 tablespoonsful of clear cur- old add the strawberry syrup to 
rant juice . rd . 
The clear juice of two smal! 25 Stir in the currant and lemon 
lemons juice, and the isinglass (nearly 


cold.) Mix and put into moulds. 
Note.—All jellies are better set on ice, as only half the quantity of 


isinglass is required and the flavour is much finer. 
39.—Raspberry Jelly. 


Prepare exactly as above. A few fine Raspberries may be 
put into the top of the mould. 


40.—Rhubarb Jelly. 
Wash and wipe the stems; slice, but do not pare them; 


ine reds bart take out any coarse or discolored 
213 Ibs. of young pin u : 
eo esems parts. Put the rhubarb into a 


8% sok lump. sugar (inlarge stewpan with the water and two 
16 oz. of isinglass and a half ounces of the sugar 
(in lumps) ; boil it very gently for twenty minutes ; strain it 
through a piece of muslin folded in four; take one anda 
half pints of it; heat it afresh ina clean pan, add the 1s- 
inglass and the remainder of the sugar; stir it continuously 
until the isinglass is quite dissolved ; then boil up quickly 
for a few minutes to throw up the scum ; clear this off care- 
fully, and strain the jelly through muslin ; repeat this process 
if the jelly is not clear, and when it is cool pour it into 


moulds and set it in a cool place or on ice. 


CREAMS, BLANC-MANGER, AND JELLIES. 341 


41.—Pineapple Jelly. 


epare some clarified syrup and isinglass; peel the 
Ingredients. pineapple ; pick out the specks 

‘ot lati ‘ed sugar} ete cuit up in slices ; put these in a 
naga, Freie basin. Strain the clarified syrup 

the fruit and boil them together for ten minutes. Strain 
ineapple syrup through a napkin into a basin ; add the 
ied insinglass. Dip a mould in cold water ; set it on ice; 
three tablespoonsful of jelly into the mould; when it is 
urange some thin pieces of pineapple on it; pour on 
more jelly ; when this is set lay on some more pieces 

: fruit and repeat the process till the mould is filled up. 
| set quite firm, dip the mould in hot water for a second, 


put the jelly, and serve at once. 


42,—Punch Jelly. 


ir the water, boiling, on the tea and let it infuse for 


Ingredients. twenty minutes ; strain it through 
of loaf sugar . 

e lemons a muslin; rub the sugar on the 
iges ° 
~ of pineapple rinds of the oranges and lemons 
eglassfnl of Madeira (or . 
ood brown sherry) to extract the essence ; bruise the 
sglassesful of rum . te 
=glassful of brandy pineapple and press out the juice ; 
espoonful of noyeau we 
of isinglass squeeze all the juice out of the 
espoonful of fine green tea . 
of water oranges and lemons and strain It ; 


e sugar and juice into the tea; boil up; skim carefully 
tir rapidly till it is quite dissolved; strain through a 
ag ; add the spirits and wine ; pour the mixture rapidly 
‘one basin into another, three or four times; put it 
mould, and set for an hour on Ice. 


342 DAINTY DISHES FOR ENDIAN TABLES. 


. 43.—Grape Jelly. 


Dissolve the sugar and isinglass in the water ; add the 


Ingredients. grape-juice and brandy. Strain 
¥ Ib. f loaf ; . e e e e 
ig ov. of isinglass. the jelly till it is bright; puta 
44 pint of water 


% of a pint of strained grape mould in ice; pour in a little 
: wineglassful of brandy jelly ; when it is set lay in some 

good grapes; pour over some more jelly, and repeat this 

process till the mould is full. Leave in the ice till set. 


44.—Maraschino Jelly. 


Ingredients. Mix the ingredients in the 
1 pint of clarified syrup (see . . : . 
P recipe) ye order in which they are given; 
2 oz of clarified isinglass (see . . 
recipe) set in a mould on Ice, and tum 
The strained juice of one lemon 
1 wineglassful of maraschino out when firm. 


45.—Noyeau Jelly. 


This and all other Liqueur Jellies are prepared as above. 


46.—Oranges filled with Jelly. 

Take some fine oranges, and with the point of a knife cut 
out a piece about the size of an 8 anna piece from the top 
of each orange; with the small end of a tea or egg spoon 
scoop out all the pulp, taking great care not to break the 
rind; throw the empty orange rinds into cold water. Press 
the juice from the pulp, make it into jelly (see recipe); have 
ready some cream or blanc-manger; lay the empty orange 
skins on ice and fill them into alternate layers of jelly and 
cream, or else color half the orange jelly with a few droj- 
of cochineal, and fill the oranges with alternate layers ce! 
pink and yellow jelly. When firmly set wipe the orange 


CREAMS, BLANC-MANGER, AND JELLIES. 343 


and cut them in halves with a sharp knife; build them up 


with green leaves in between. This makes a very pretty 
dish. | 


47.—Orange and Cream Jelly. 


Prepare some orange jelly and about half a pint of Italian 
cream. Put the cream in a breakfast cup on ice to set. Take 
a plain round mould about one inch deeper than the break- 
fast cup, and about nine inches in diameter; set it on ice, 
pour in about one inch depth of jelly, and leave it to set. 
Divide some oranges into quarters; take off all the fibre. 
When the cream in the cup Is set, and the layer of jelly in 
the mould firm, dip the cup for a second into hot water; 
turn out the cream on a plate; lay the mould over it so as to 
cover it; then turn the plate quickly over so that the cream 
stands upright on the jelly in the centre of the mould; set 
the mould on ice; lay in two rows of orange quarters, the 
one on the top of the other close round the cream on the 
first layer of jelly, with the thin edge of the quarter next to 
the cream; pour in some more jelly. When this is set put in 
two more rows of orange quarters; set these in jelly, and 
continue the process until the shape is full, When it is all 
set turn it out andserve at once. This is one of the pret- 
tiest dishes we have ever seen. 


48—Macedoine of whole Fruits in Jelly. 


Make some very bright clear jelly; have ready any kinds 
of fruits, grapes, peaches, apricots, cherries, raspberries, 
strawberries. Place a mould on ice; pour in some jelly an 
inch thick and leave it to set, pile up the fruit in the centre, 
pour in some jelly; leave it to set, add more fruit, and fill 
up with jelly, When set firm turn out carefully. 


PRESERVES, COMPOTES, &c. 


The greatest care must be taken to have everything scrupu- 
lously clean for making preserves. The hair sieve, the mus- 
lin, and strainer should never be used for any other purpose, 
such as straining soup, vegetables, &c. 

Only zooden spoons should be used for skimming and 
stirring preserves, as metal ones impair the color and even 
sometimes impart an unpleasant flavour to the preserve. 

The pots or bottles in which the preserves are kept must 
be perfectly clean and dry. Pots should be filled to within 
a quarter of an inch of the tops, and bottles just above the 
shoulder, and if a piece of paper dipped in brandy is placed 
on the top of the preserve it will ensure its keeping. The 
day after the jams are made the jars or bottles should be 
closely covered with strong paper (the whitey brown kind 
known as “cap” paper is the most suitable) and brushed 
with white of eggs; or else with bladders, soaked, and tied 
closely over. 

The preserving pan should not be placed flat on the fire, 
but it should either rest on an iron trivet, or three logs of 
wood should be placed in a triangle over the fire and the 
pan rest on this. 

All fruit should be preserved the same day it is picked. 


PRESERVES, COMPOTES, &C. 345 


1.—Strawberry Jam. 


The fruit must be fresh gathered; pick off the stalks ; 
weigh them; boil them for thirty-five minutes, stirring con- 
stantly; take the pan off the fire; add one pound of pounded 
loaf sugar for each pound of fruit, mix well; then boil the 
preserve for twenty minutes, stirring and skimming con- 
stantly. No scum must remain on the jam. Pour it into 
pots, leave it till the following day; then tie it down. 


2.—Strawberry Jam. 
(Another way ). 


Strain the red currant juice (or syrup) into a preserving 

pan; take the stalks off the fruit, 

. of strawberri a: ; ws 

: Bat Of red currant juice, (or Wwelgh it and add it to juice; boil 
syrup) . . 

6 Ibs. of pounded loaf sugar up ; skim; add the sugar, stirring 

constantly and boil moderately fast, and skim carefully for 

thirty-five minutes. Put the jam into pots. Tie it down the 


next day. 


3.—Strawberry Jelly. 


The fruit should be freshly gathered. Pick off the stalks; 
put the fruit into an enamelled stewpan, if you have one, 
and stand it very high above a clean fire; turn the fruit over 
occasionally with a wooden spoon; after about half an hour, 
when the juice has flowed from it abundantly, put the pan 
nearer to the fire and let it simmer zvezy gently to shrink the 
fruit for about twenty minutes, Put a delicately clean sieve 
over a clean pan, pour the fruit into it and leave it there till 
all the juice hasrun through. Strain the juice through a 
muslin strainer into a basin; weigh it and boil it in a clean 
preserving pan for fifteen or twenty minutes, stirring often, 


S2 


346 DAINTY DISHES FOR INDIAN TABLES. 


Take it off the fire and throw in by degrees fourteen ounces 
of coarsely pounded sugar for each pound of juice, stirring 
each portion till it is dissolved before you add the next. 
Place the pan over the fire and boil the jelly quickly for 
about a quarter of an hour, or until the juice jellies on 
the skimmer. 

This is a delicious jelly and very brilliant in color. It 
becomes quite firm, and can be turned out in glass dishes 
for dessert by dipping the pot for a second in hot water. 


- 4.—Raspberry Jam. 
This is made in exactly the same way as strawberry jam. 


(See recipes.) 
5.—Rhubarb Jam. 


Wipe some fresh young rhubarb very clean; pare it, cut 
it into half inch lengths; weigh it, and for every pound of 
fruit take one pound of loaf sugar in fine powder; mix the 
fruit and sugar well and let it remain for a quarter of an 
hour to extract the juice; put it on the fire and let it heat 
slowly ; as soon as the stalks become tender, let the preserve 
boil rapidly for about half an hour, stirring constantly and 
skimming. 

6.—Rhubarb Jam. 
(Another way.) 


Wipe the rhubarb clean ; pare it and cut it into half an inch 
pieces. Put it intoa preserving pan with an equal weight of 
finely pounded sugar, the juice of two lemons, and twelve 
bitter almonds blanched and chopped ; boil up slowly, stir- 
ring constantly; skim; boil fast for three quarters of an 
hour, skimming as long as the scum rises. Put the jam into 
pots and tie down the following day. 


PRESERVES, COMPOTES, XC. 347 


7.—Gooseberry Jam. 
_ (This can be made of the Cape Gooseberries—Tiparri. ) 


Rub the fruit with a clean coarse cloth ; weigh it and take 
one pound of pounded loaf sugar and the juice of a lemon 
to each pound of fruit. Boil the fruit and lemon-juice gently 
for seven minutes, stirring it well; add the sugar very gra- 
dually, and boil quickly for three quarters of an hour, stir- 
ring and skimming constantly. Put into pots and tie over 
next day. 

It is to our thinking an improvement to pass the fruit 
through a sieve before the sugar is added, and if this is 
well reduced by boiling, it will make a very nice gateau or 
cheese, and will turn in perfect form out of the jars. 


8.—Cape Gooseberry Jelly. 


Wash the fruit very clean; pick off the stalks; put it into 
a preserving pan with three quarters of a pint of filtered 
water to each pound of fruit and simmer until the goose- 
berries are well broken. Turn the contents of the pan into 
a jelly bag, or fine cloth, and let all the juice drain through; 
weigh the juice ; boil it rapidly for fifteen minutes, and skim 
it. ‘Take as many pounds of sugar as you have pounds of 
juice ; draw the pan from the fire; stir the sugar into it 
by degrees and until it is entirely dissolved ; boil and skim 
it fifteen or twenty minutes longer, until it jellies on the 
spoon; clear it perfectly from scum and pour it into jars or 
bottles. Tie down the following day. 


9.—Red Currant Jelly. 


Strip the currants from their stalks; put them into a 
preserving pan, and stir them gently over a clear fire until 


348 DAINTY DISHES FOR INDIAN TABLES. 


the juice flows freely from them; turn the contents of the 
pan on to a fine hair sieve, and leave them to drain, but do 
not press them through. Pass the juice through a jelly 
bag, or folded muslin; weigh it; boil it fast for a quar- 
ter of an hour and clear off all the scum. For each pound 
of juice take eight ounces of coarsely pounded sugar; stir 
it into the juice (off the fire) until it is well dissolved ; boil 
the juice fast for eight minutes, clearing off all the scum 
as it rises; pour it into jars or bottles, and tie it down the 
following day. 


10.—Greengage Jam. 


The fruit should be freshly picked and quite ripe. Take 
off the skins; stone and weigh it. Put it in a preserving 
pan and boil quickly for fifty minutes, keeping it well stirred. 
Add an equal weight of sugar finely pounded ; boil the 
preserve ten minutes longer, ‘clearing off all the scum as 
it rises; put it into jars and tig down the following day. 
Plum and Damson Jam are made in the same way. 

Note.—When the flesh of the fruit does not separate easily from the 
stones which is the case with most Indian plums, weigh the fruit and 
throw it whole into the pan; boil it to a pulp, pass it through a siete, 


and deduct the weight of the stones when apportioning the sugar to the 
jam. 


11.—Apricot Jam. 


Peel, stone, and quarter ripe apricots, break the stones 
blanch the kernels and wipe them dry. Put the fruit into 
a preserving pan with the same weight of loaf sugar; place 
the pan over a gentle heat until the sugar is dissolved: 
then boil up and skim; boil moderately fast, skimming 
constantly for three quarters of an hour; five minutes before 


PRESERVES, COMPOTES, KC. 349 


it is done put in the kernels. Put the jam into pots and tie 
it down the next day. 


Note.—When the apricots are very small, as in the case of those 
grown in the hills, it would be well to use only half the kernels. 


12.—Apricot Marmalade. 


Wipe the fruit, cut it in half, and boil it for twenty mi- 
nutes ; blanch the kernels; take the pan off the fire; add 
an equal weight of sugar to the fruit very gradually until 
it is all dissolved; boil fast for ten minutes, skimming very 
carefully ; three minutes before it is done add the kernels. 
Put the jam into pots and tie down the next day. 


13.—Peach Jam. 
Follow the recipe for Apricot Jam. 


14.—Peach Marmalade. 


The fruit must be ripe but perfectly sound. Peel, stone, 
and weigh it. Boil the fruit quickly for three quarters of 
an hour ; stir and skim it often; blanch the kernels ; take 
the fruit off the fire and stir in very gradually an equal 
weight of finely pounded sugar; boil it briskly for ten 
minutes, clearing off the scum carefully ; add the strained 
juice of two lemons and the blanched kernels; boil for 
three minutes ; put it into pots and tie it down the next day. 


15.—Nectarine Jam or Marmalade. 
Follow the preceding recipes. 


16.—Peach, Apricot, or Plum Jelly. 


Wipe the fruit, put it ina pan on the fire and boil it 
quickly for forty minutes. ‘Tie it into a muslin bag, hang 


350 DAINTY DISHES FOR INDIAN TABLES. 


it over a basin, and leave it for twelve hours to drain. 
Take one cup of finely pounded sugar for each cup of juice, 
boil it for eight minutes, skimming carefully ; strain again 
through muslin; then boil gently until it jellies in dropping 
from a spoon; pour into jars or bottles and tie down the 
next day. — . 


17.—Apple Jam. 


Peel, core, and quarter some apples, weigh them quickly 


so that they may not discolor, and boil them for thirty mi- 


nutes; to each pound add the strained juice of a lemon 
and three quarters of a pound of powdered loaf sugar; stir 
and simmer for fifteen minutes. Put the jam into pots and 
tie down the next day. 


18.—Apple Jelly. 

Peel, core, quarter, and weigh the apples; put them into 
a large jar with the thin rind of one lemon, four cloves, twu 
inches of cinnamon, and a pint of water to each pound o! 
fruit; tie the jar closely over and bake it in a moderate 
oven for one and a half hours; strain off the juice without 
pressing the apples; take one pound of loaf sugar and one 
tablespoonful of lemon juice for each pint of juice; put it 
into a pan and boil fas¢ for forty-five minutes, skimming 
constantly. Pour it into pots and tie down the next day. 
The apples will make jam as in the preceding recipe. 


19.—Quince Marmalade. 


Pare the quinces ; cut them in halves, scoop out the cures. 
and put them into cold water as you do them to preserve 
the color. Put the parings and cores into a stewpan with 
sufficient cold water to cover them well; boil till in a suf 


PRESERVES, COMPOTES, &C. 351 


pulp; strain through a sieve without bruising the pulp. 
Weigh the quinces and the juice, and allow three quarters 
of a pound of loaf sugar for every pound. Put the quinces, 
juice, and sugar into a stewpan, and simmer gently, skim- 
ming carefully and breaking up the fruit with the juice 
till it becomes a marmalade. Then boil fast to lessen the 
juice, and when the whole forms a firm marmalade, put it 
into jars and tie down the following day. 


20.—Quince Jelly. 

Prepare the fruit as above, and put the parings and cores 
into a stewpan with enough water to cover them well; boil 
till in a soft pulp; strain the juice through a sieve. Weigh 
the quinces ; for every four pounds of fruit, take two quarts 
of the juice and put them into a stewpan and stew gently 
until they are well broken but not reduced to pulp. Turn 
them into a jelly bag or tie them up in a fine cloth, and let 
all the juice strain into a deep pan. 

If the juice is not clear, strain it again. Weigh the juice, 
put it into a delicately clean preserving pan, and boil it quick- 
ly for twenty minutes. Take it off the fire and stir into it 
until it is entirely dissolved twelve ounces of sugar for each 
pound of juice. Put it on the fire, stir and skim it for ten 
or twenty minutes, or until the syrup jellies strongly in falling 
from the skimmer. Put it into jars and tie it down the follow: 
ing day. 

21.—Damson Cheese. 
(This may be made from small Red Plums. ) 


Take the stalks off the fruit ; reject any which are not per- 
fectly sound; give each plum a gash with a knife ; put them 
into large stone jars ; tie them over with bladders and put 


352 DAINTY DISHES FOR INDIAN TABLES. 


them into large pans or degchees with water reaching two- 
thirds their height. Boil them for two or three hours, or 
until the fruit is quite soft and has yielded all its juice. 
Drain off the juice ; skin and stone the fruit ; weigh it and 
put it into a stewpan with half the juice, and boil briskly 
over a clear fire until it forms a dry-paste ; add nine ounces 
of pounded sugar for each pound of fruit, stirring it in off the 
fire until it is quite dissolved ; boil it again, stirring constant- 
ly until it leaves the pan quite dry and adheres in a mass to 
the spoon. Press it quickly into jars or moulds ; when it is 
quite cold lay on it a paper steeped in spirit; tie it closely 
over with another paper or bladder. 


22.—Damson or Red Plum Jelly. 

Steam the fruit in jars as above; when it is done pour off 
the juice, strain and weigh it. Boil it quickly for twenty-five 
minutes ; take it off the fire and stir in ten ounces of pounded 
sugar for each pound of fruit. Boil it quickly for ten m- 
nutes longer, stirring constantly, and carefully clearing off the 
scum. Put it into jars or moulds and tie them down the next 
day. 


23.—Guava Jelly. 


Follow the recipe for Quince Jelly. 


24.—Guava Cheese. 


Keep back one-third of the juice when you make the jelly, 
and put it into a preserving pan with the guavas from which 
the jelly was strained, adding six ounces of sugar for each 
pound of fruit ; boil it over a clear fire until it forms a thick 
paste ; pass it through a hair sieve ; press it into jars, and te 
down the next day. 


PRESERVES, COMPOTES, XC. 353. 


25.—Mixed Fruit Jelly. 

Take one pound of orange-juice, the same quantities of 
grape-juice, half a pound of lemon-juice and eighteen ounces 
of loaf sugar. Put all this into a preserving pan and stir with 
a wooden spoon until the sugar is dissolved ; then boil fast 
for one hour. Pour the jelly into moulds or pots, and the 
next day tie them down. : 


26.—Orange Marmalade. 


For seven dozen oranges take one dozen fine lemons; wipe 
all the fruit with a clean cloth. Peel the oranges with a 
very sharp knife, only taking off the yellow part ; put the rind 
into cold water and boil it till it is tender. Grate the peel 
of the lemons ; take the white peel and pith off all the fruit ; 
cut it into quarters and take out the pips and _ white 
fibre; strain out the juice; strain the peel and cut it into 
shreds; put the pulp from which the- juice was extracted 
into the water in which the peel was boiled, and boil it 
till it is quite soft; rub it through a sieve. Mix the shred- 
ed and grated peel, the pulp and juice; weigh it, and 
take an equal weight of loaf sugar. Put the whole into a 
preserving pan, stir it with a wooden spoon till the sugar 
is dissolved, then skim and boil it till it becomes a_ rich 
marmalade (about an hour). Put it into pots and tie it 
down the following day. 


27.—Orange or Lemon Marmalade. 
(Another way.) 


Rasp the rinds of the oranges very lightly on a fine 
grater ; cut them into quarters and separate the flesh from 


354 DAINTY DISHES FOR INDIAN TABLES, 


the rinds; with the small end of an egg or saltspoon clear 
them from the pips and inner skin and film. Put the rinds 
in plenty of cold water; boil them for twenty minutes and 
then change the water and boil them again. When they 
are quite tender, take them out and drain them ona 
sieve. Slice them thin, and take eight ounces of the rind 
for each pound of the pulp and juice, and one and half 
pounds of powdered loaf sugar. Put the rind, pulp, juice 
and sugar into a preserving pan and boil fast for half an 
hour, skimming well. Put into jars and tie down the next 


day. 


28.—Scotch Marmalade. 


Cut the rind of three pounds of bitter oranges into quarters, 
peel it off and pare off the white film inside. Cut the rind 
into chips as thin as possible and about half an inch long; 
divide the pulp into small bits, take out the pips; put the 
chips and pulp into a deep earthen dish ; pour three quarts 
of boiling water on them; let them stand twelve or fourteen 
hours ; turn the contents of the dish into a preserving pan 
and boil it until the peel is quite tender; add six pounds of 
pounded sugar and boil until the preserve jellies; then put 
it into pots and tie down the next day. 


29.—Clear Orange Marmalade. 


Cut the rind of some oranges in quarters, strip it off, free 
it from fibre. Divide the oranges in quarters, free them from 
pips, thin skin and fibre. Throw the skins into plenty of 
boiling water; when they are tender drain them on a sieve 
and scrape off the white skin entirely while they are still 
warm, Pound them to a paste, add the pulp and juice by 


PRESERVES, COMPOTES, &XC. 355 


degrees, taking care that no lumps are formed. Immerse 
the seeds in a quarter of a pint of water, add it to the paste, 
pass it through a coarse bobbin-net strainer, pour it into a 
preserving pan ; take it off the fire, stir in by degrees some 
pounded sugar in the proportion of one and half pounds of 
sugar for each pound of fruit; when the sugar is all dis- 
solved, put the preserve on the fire and boil it quickly for 
twenty minutes, or until it jellies. Put it into pots, and tie 
it down the following day. 


30.—Fine Orange Jelly. 

Choose eighteen ripe oranges ; take off the rind of ten of 
them in quarters, free them entirely from their tough white 
skin, and cut them into rather thick slices with a sharp knife ; 
put them with all their pips into one and a half pint of water. 
Halve the remainder of the fruit without paring it, and 
Squeeze out the juice and pips on to thesliced oranges. Put 
the fruit into a stewpan (which it must not more than two- 
thirds fill); heat it gently and boil for twenty or thirty 
minutes ; strain the juice from the fruit through a large square 
of muslin folded in four. Weigh the juice, boil it quickly 
for five minutes; for each pound of juice take fourteen ounces 
of roughly powdered loaf-sugar ; stir it into the juice off the 
fire; when it is entirely dissolved boil it for a few minutes 
till it jellies. It will be firm and clear and beautifully trans- 
parent. 


31.—Pineapple Marmalade. 


Cut some ripe pineapples into slices ; pare off the rind and 
take out every speck and grate it ona delicately clean grater ; 
weigh it; beat it gently and boil it for ten minutes ; take it 


356 DAINTY DISHES FOR INDIAN TABLES. 


off the fire and stir in gradually fourteen ounces of dry pow- 
dered sugar for each pound of fruit ; boil it until it thickens 
and becomes transparent, which will be in about fifteen 
minutes if the quantity is not large. 


32.—Preserved Pineapple. 


The pieces must be ripe and perfectly sound; cut them 
into slices half an inch thick. Pare off the outer rind, and 
take out all the eyes and specks ; weigh them, and for each 
pound of fruit allow fourteen ounces of loaf sugar and halfa 
gill of cold water. Put the sugar and water into a preserving 
pan and stir over a slow heat until it boils and the sugar is 
dissolved ; boil it up quickly and skim ; put in the fruit and 
boil gently for twenty minutes, skimming constantly. Lay 
the fruit ina deep dish or basin, pour the syrup over and let 
it stand for two days. Put it again into a preserving pan and 
boil slowly for a quarter of an hour, skimming if necessary. 
The next day put it into pots and tie it down. 

Note.—It is a good plan to cut off the yellow outside skin as thin as 
possible and then pare the slices thickly enough to take out all the eyes. 


When this is done, the thick inside parings should be put into coarse 
muslin and the juice expressed and added to the sugar and water. 


33.—Preserved Melon. 
(For Dessert. ) 


The melons must be perfectly sound and not over-mpe. 
Pare and quarter them, take out the pulp, place it on a sieve 
with a basin underneath to receive the juice from it. Weigh 
the fruit and put it in an earthen pan; cover it with cold 
water with salt and vinegar in it (in the proportion of one 
teaspoonful of salt and one dessertspoonful of French vinegat 


PRESERVES, COMPOTES, &cC. 357 


to three pints of water) ; let it remain in this pickle for 26 
hours ; then wash and drain it. Take the same weight of 
loaf sugar as of fruit ; put it into a stewpan with the juice from 
the pulp and boil it, skimming carefully till it becomes a clear 
syrup. When the syrup is cold, put in the melon ; boil it up 
slowly, skim, and simmer gently for a quarter of an hour. 
Put the melon carefully into a basin ; pour the syrup over it 
and let it stand for three days ; each day drain off the syrup, 
boil it fast for three minutes, pour it over the melon. The 
last time it is boiled add one ounce of ginger lightly bruised 
to the syrup. Put the melon in a jar, pour the syrup over, 
and place the ginger on the top; the next day tie it closely 
down. 


34-—Preserved Peaches, whole. 
(For Dessert.) 


The peaches must be sound and not over-ripe. Wipe off 
the bloom and throw them into a preserving-pan more than 
half filled with boiling water. Cover it with a cloth and let 
it stand where it will keep hot, but not boil, for an hour. 
Then take them out and put them into cold water. When 
they are cold, take off the peel, open the ends sufficiently to 
take out the stones, break the stones and blanch the kernels. 
Weigh the peaches and take an equal weight of loaf sugar. 
Put the sugar into a preserving pan with enough water to 
moisten it and boil it till it is a syrup. Put in the peaches 
and kernels and let them boil for five minutes ; then put them 
into a dish and pour the syrup over them. Cover the dish 
with a sheet of paper, and let it remain until next day. Drain 
off the syrup, boil it for three minutes ; pour it over the 
peaches. Do this every day for a week ; the last time put in 


358 DAINTY DISHES FOR INDIAN TABLES. 


the peaches and boil fast for ten minutes, Put them care- 
fully into pots, pour the syrup over, put a portion of the 
kernels into each pot, and the next day tie them down. 


35.—Preserved Nectarines. 


Follow the preceding recipe, but leave the peel on. 


36.—Preserved Quinces. 


Pare the quinces, cut them in halves, scoop out the cores, 
and put them in cold water to preserve the color. Put the 
parings and cores into a stewpan with three times their 
weight of apples cut in slices, and sufficient cold water to 
cover them well and boil till in a soft pulp; then strain 
through a sieve without bruising the pulp. Weigh the 
quinces and the juice and allow three quarters of a pound of 
loaf sugar to every pound. Put the quinces, juice and sugar 
into a stewpan and simmer gently, skimming often, till they 
are tender and the juice is clear. Put the quinces carefully 
into jars and fill up with juice. When cold, tie them down 
and keep them in a dry place. 


37.—Pumpkin Ginger. 
(For Dessert.) 


The pumpkin must not be ripe. Peel it and remove the 
seeds and cut it into pieces like the West Indian Ginger in 
form and size. Make a pickle with two quarts of cold water 
a teaspoonful of salt, and a teacupful of white vinegar. Put 
the pieces of pumkin into this and let them remain for twenty, 
four hours. Make a syrup as follows: To every pound add 
the strained juice of one lemon, half an ounce of ground gin- 
ger, and a quarter of a pint of cold water; boil and stir till 


PRESERVES, COMPOTES, &XC. 359 


it becomes a syrup ; take out the pieces of pumpkin and wash 
them in cold water; put them into the syrup and simmer 
gently until tender but not soff; turn the whole into a basin ; 
the next day pour off the syrup, boil it up and pour it back 
on to the pumpkin; do this for three days ; taste the syrup, 
and if it is not sufficiently strongly flavored with ginger, add 
a saltspoonful more ginger each day ; the third day when the 
preserve is cold, put it into jars, let the syrup well cover. the 
pumpkin ; tie the jars over with bladder and keep them in a 
dry place for six months before using. 


38.—Oranges in Syrup. 

Peel the oranges ; then with a small sharpe knife remove 
every particle of white skin and fibre, taking care not to prick 
the inner skin or the juice will escape. For eight oranges 
boil one pound of loaf sugar in half a gill of water; when 
the syrup is quite bright add a wineglassful of rum. Put 
the oranges into a pie-dish which will just hold them; pour 
the syrup over and let it remain till cold; turn the oranges; 
pour off the syrup, boil it up, pour it over again, and let 
them stand till the following day. 


39.—Orange Salad. 
(For Dessert. ) 


Peel the oranges; free them from skin and fibre; cut them 
into slices one-sixth of an inch thick. For nine oranges 
take one pound of finely powdered loaf sugar, one wine- 
glassful of Madeira, one wineglassful of brandy, and one 
wineglassful of whisky or rum. Lay the oranges and sugar 
in layers, pour the wine and syrup over, and let it stand six 


360 . DAINTY DISHES FOR INDIAN TABLES, 


hours before serving. Baste the oranges frequently with the 
syrup, using a silver spoon. 


Note.—Powdered sugar-candy may be substituted for the loaf sugar, 
and a little curacao may be added to the brandy. 


40.—Whisky Apples. 
(For Dessert.) 


Take some sweet sound apples; peel them neatly and 
scoop out the core with a narrow pointed knife (or better 
still a long narrow cutter, three inches deep and half an inch 
in diameter). Take three quarters of a pound of loaf sugar 
for each pound of apples, the thin rind and strained juice of 
a lemon, two inches of cinnamon, two cloves, half an inch 
of bruised ginger, half a gill of whisky, and half an inch of 
stick vanilla. Put the whole into a stewpan, place it over a 
slow heat and simmer gently for one and a half hour; turn 
the apples frequently with a wooden spoon and skim con- 
stantly. If carefully done the apples become quite trans- 
parent and will keep fora year. Put them in large glazed 
jars; boil the syrup for five minutes, strain it over the apples, 
and when cold tie them down. Serve with a preserved 
cherry on the top of each. 


41.—Stewed Pears. 
(For Dessert. ) 


Put the pears into a tin stewpan with sufficient cold water 
to cover them, and boil them slowly till they begin to feel 
soft. Take them out; put them into cold water for a few 
minutes, the skin will come off quite easily; scoop out the 
core. To each pound of pears allow nine ounces of loaf 
sugar, two cloves, one inch of cinnamon, the thin rind of a 


PRESERVES, COMPOTES, &XC. 361 


lemon, one tablespoonful of curacao, or one sherryglass of 
port wine, and fifteen drops of cochineal. Put all the ingre- 
dients into a tin stewpan and simmer very gently until the 
pears are quite tender, stirring frequently and skimming with 
a wooden spoon. Take out the pears, boil the syrup quickly 
for ten minutes; strain it over the pears, and serve when 
quite cold. 


42.—Stewed Pippins. 


For each pound of pippins take one quart of water and six 
ounces of sugar. Put all these into a stewpan with some 
cloves and strips of lemon-peel and simmer very gently for 
three hours, or until perfectly tender. Take out the pippins, 
boil the syrup quickly for ten minutes, pout it over the fruit, 
and serve when cold with whipped cream or rich custard. 


43.—Stewed Prunes. 


For each pound of prunes take one pound of brown 
sugar and one pint of water. Boil the water and sugar to- 
gether for ten minutes, put in the fruit and simmer gently 
for two hours, or until it is perfectly tender so that it breaks 
if touched with the finger. Drain the syrup from the prunes 
and boil it till it is very thick. Put the prunes back into it 
and let them stand till next day. 


44.—Compote of Peaches. 


Pare six ripe peaches; boil six ounces of sugar in half a 
pint of water for ten minutes; put in the peaches; stew them 
very gently for twenty minutes, turning them constantly. 
Take out the fruit; add one large teaspoonful of lemon-juice 

U2 


362 DAINTY DISHES FOR INDIAN TABLES, 


to the syrup, boil it quickly for ten minutes, pour it over the 
peaches, and serve cold for dessert. 


Note.—Nectarines, apricots, and greengages may be prepared in the 
same way, 


45.—Compote of Cherries. 


Put six ounces of loaf sugar and half pint of water with 
a teaspoonful of white of egg in a stewpan; whisk well over 
the fire, boil gently for five minutes; if it gets too thick add 
a few drops of cold water; strain through a napkin intoa 
basin. ‘Take some fine cherries; cut off the stalks half-way 
and all the same length, put them into the syrup, simmer 
for three minutes, add a dessertspoonful of noyeau, and 
serve cold for dessert. 


A 
46.—Compote of Strawberries. 


Prepare exactly as above, only substitute one small wine 
glassful of maraschino for the noyeau. 


47.—Bottled Strawberries. 


Prepare some syrup as directed for compdte of chermes; 
have some freshly picked strawberries ripe and_ perfectly 
sound, taking care not to bruise them. Put them into: 
glass bottle; fill this up with the syrup; cork them tightly 
down and tie the corks over with string. Put the bottles in 
a deep pot or pan, and put in cold water which must reach 
up to the necks of the bottles. Put the lid on the pot 
stand it on the fire, and as soon as it boils lift it off the fire 
and let it stand till the water is nearly cold. Then tie the 


PRESERVES, COMPOTES, &C. 363 


corks over with bladders, or cover them well with sealing-wax 
or bottle-wax melted in the proportion of one pound of 
bottle-wax to one ounce of bees-wax. 


48.—Bottled Apricots. 


The apricots must not be over-ripe; split them in halves; 
peel them carefully; lay them in layers in dry bottles; fill 
them up with syrup, and proceed as directed for bottled 
strawberries. 


49.—Bottled Peaches. 
Split the peaches in halves; scald them in their syrup to 
remove the skins; arrange the halves in dry clean bottles, 
and proceed as for bottled strawberries. 


CAKES. 


——— 


GENERAL DIRECTIONS AND REMARKS, 


The ingredients of cakes should be perfectly fresh and 
good, and well dried, especially during the rainy season. The 
ordinary bazaar flour is often adulterated, and its inferior 
quality spoils the cakes and makes them heavy ; great care 
must therefore be taken to procure it pure and of a good 
quality, and where this cannot be done it is well to use com: 
flour which insures the cakes being light and good. 

All light cakes require a brisk oven to make them nse, 
large rich ones a sustained heat to bake them through. 

To ascertain whether a cake is done thrust a larding 
needle or bright skewer into the centre, and if it comes out 
clean take out the cake instantly ; if the paste adheres to the 
needle continue the baking. 

Cakes should not be moved or shaken in the oven before 
they are done. When they are sufficiently baked loosen them 
gently, turn them out of the mould, set them on a sieve at 
the mouth of the oven to dry the surface, then put them 
aside on the sieve until cold. 


1.—Rich Plum Cake. 


Beat the butter to a cream and put it into a basin with 


Ingredients. the other ingredients, except the 
¥% tb. of good butter . . . 
‘4 5} 4, rich moist sugar whites of eggs, in the order i 
% 4) 9, currants (washed and . . 

dried) which they are given. Beat the 


Ingredients of Plum Cake. 
3% Ib. of raisins (carefully stoned) 
6 oz. of mixed candied peel 
(finely chopped) 
I 5) 5, bitter almonds (blanch- 
ed and pounded) 
6 bitter almonds (blanched and 


pounded) 
The grated rind of one lemon 
The strained juice of ,, _ ,, 


1 grain of powdered cloves 
2 grains of powdered cinnamon 
4% part of a nutmeg, grated 
14 0z. of flour (sifted and dried) 
i gill of new milk 
The yolks of 6 eggs beaten with 
a wineglassful-of brandy 
The whites of 6 eggs beaten to 
a froth 


CAKES. 365 


whole together until it is well 
mixed, add the whites of eggs, 
and continue to beat rapidly for 
twenty minutes. Line a large 
cake tin with buttered paper, and 
bake in a moderate oven for two- 
and-a-half hours. Turn out the 
cake carefully, dry it at the mouth 
of the oven ; put it on a sieve to 


cool, and serve either plain or with almond paste and icing. 


(See recipes.) 


2.—To blanch and pound Almonds. 
Put the almonds in a saucepan with plenty of cold water 


and heat slowly; when it is just scalding turn the almonds 
into a basin, peel them and throw them into cold water as 
they are done ; dry them well in a soft cloth before they are 
used. If the water be too hot it will make them yellow. 
They should be zery slightly warmed before they are pound- 
ed ; while beating sprinkle in a few drops of water or lemon- 
juice and pound them to a smooth paste in a mortar. | 


Y 


3.—Almond Paste for Cakes. 


Blanch and pound the almonds as directed; add the 
ingredients, sugar, orange flower water, and 
12 bitter almonds ° : 
7 oz. of sweet almonds the whites of eggs beaten to a stiff 
10 4, ,; Sifted loaf sugar . . eee 
1 tablespoonful of orange flower froth; stir the mixture till it be- 
comes a smooth paste. Spread 
it over the cake one-sixth of an inch thick and let it stand 
in an airy place while the icing is being prepared. 


water 
The whites of ten eggs 


366 DAINTY DISHES FOR INDIAN TABLES. 


4.—Sugar Icing for Cakes. 


Break the eggs one by one and separate the yolks from 

Ingredients. the whites ; with a small fork take 
the specks out of each egg as it 
is broken. Whisk the eggs toa 
perfectly solid froth; stir in the 
sugar with a wooden spoon; work it in well; add the lemon- 
juice ; spread the icing over the cake, and dry it very gently 
in a quite cool oven or in a meat screen placed before the 
fire. 


The whites of six eg 

1 Ib. of loaf sugar oo pounded 
and sifted 

The strained juice of half a le- 
mon 


5.—Plum Cake. 


(Another way.) 


Place the butter in a large white earthen pan or wash- 


Ingredients. 


114 Ibs. of flour (sifted & dried) 
1 lb. of fine sugar 


I» on ried cherries (stightly 

1% Ibs. cnoppe currants (washed 
nd dried) 

% Ib. of candied orang | S a 

1'.6 oF 

pee 20 

Ys 3 ” citron, yeas 

lemon,)O “% 


8 oz. of pounded almonds 

8 whole eggs (beaten) 

The rind of two oranges (rub- 
bed off on two lumps of 
sugar) 

Y% oz. of ground spicies (cinna- 
mon, cloves, and nutmeg 
in equal proportions) 

¥4 pint of Cognac brandy 


hand basin and work it with a 
wooden spoon to cream ; add the 
flour, sugar and eggs, carefully 
working the butter the whole 
time ; when these are thoroughly 
mixed, add the cherries, candied 
peel and almonds; then very 
gradually the brandy, spices and 
salt. When these are well incor- 
porated, line a large tin with 


1 teaspoonful of salt 


double bands of buttered paper; 
pour in the mixture ; put two sheets of buttered paper on a 
stout baking sheet; stand the cake on that, and put it ina 
moderate oven for about two and a half hours. When it is 
ready proceed as in the preceding recipe and ice as directed 


CAKES. 367 


6.—A good Sponge Cake. 


Rasp the rind of a good sound lemon on the lumps of 


i imeretionts. sugar ; crush the lumps to pow- 
or 4 lumps of sugar 
The rasp rind of large lemon Ger. Break the eggs one by one, 


“The weight one eggs in dry separate the yolks from the whites 
Half their weight in good flour* and take out any specks with a 
ws Wes fetes At for ten minutes; atrew in 
flour for sponge cakes ? ew in 
the sugar by degrees and beat 
them well together. In the meantime let the whites be mixed 
to a stiff froth, whisk in the yolks, and when they are well 
mixed stir in the flour gently, but do not beat the mixture 
any more. Put one’ ounce of butter into a tin, melt it in 
the oven for a few seconds, turn the mould round and round 
till it is well covered; sift in some fine powdered sugar, shake 
it well all over the butter; turn out the loose sugar, pour 
in the cake, and bake it for one and a quarter hours in a 
moderate oven. Serve plain or with chocolate icing, (see 
recipe). Sponge cakes may be flavoured with twenty drops 
of vanilla. 


7.—Chocolate Icing. 
Boil the sugar in the water until it throws up peal-like 


Ingredients. bubbles; take it off the fire. 
6 oz, of finely grated chocolate . . . 
Ibs. ,, ,, powdered sugar Dissolve the chocolate in a wine- 


Y pint of good filtered water 
glassful of water, and after the 


sugar has stood off the fire ten minutes stir in the chocolate ; 
work well together, and while still hot spread it over the 
cakes and leave it to dry. This is a great improvement to 
Rice, Madeira, and Oswego cakes. 


™ 
te 
en 
meee ew 


368 DAINTY DISHES FOR INDIAN TABLES. 


/ 
8—Tea or Coffee Icing for Cakes. 


Proceed as above, substituting a small teacupful of rer 
strong tea or coffee for the chocolate. 


—~ 
9.—A good Madeira Cale. 
Whisk the eggs until they are as light as possible ; add the 


mech Ingredients. ingredients very gradually in the 
5 02 . of ‘Sagar (dried, pounded order in which they are given, 
fand sifted) eae ° 
6 ,, » flour (dried and sifted) whisking well all the time. Spe 
»» » butter (dissolved but . . a 
not heated) cial care must be taken in mixing 


The rind of one lemon . . 
% of a teaspoonful of carbonate the butter which must be put in 


by degrees, each portion being 
well incorporated before the next is added. Butter a tin, 
lay two or three thin pieces of candied peel in the bottom, 
pour in the mixture at once, and bake instantly for one 


hour in a moderate oven. 
Note.—The candied peel may be omitted, and the cake iced with 
chocolate, tea or coffee. (See recipes.) 


10.—Rice Cake. 


Beat the butter to a cream ; stirin the ingredients gently 
Ingredients. and by degrees, beating the yolks 


1 Ib. of fresh butter : 
r Ib. ofloaf-sugar (dried, pound- and whites separately ; melt a 
ed and sifted) 


1 Ib, of finely ground rice (dried lump of butter in a cake mould 
and sift . le 

The grated rind of one small by putting it in the oven ; turn the 
emon . 

The yolks of twelve eggs mould round and round till it 3s 


The whites of eight ,, . . 
covered in every part shake m 


some sugar, cover the butter well with it; shake out all that 
does not adhere. Pour in the cake, and bake in a moderate 


oven for one-and-three-quarter hours. 
Note.—This cake may be flavored with vanilla or iced with chocolate, 
tea, or coffee iceing. (See reipes. ) 


CAKES. 369 


11.—Another Rice Cake. 
Whisk the eggs until they are as light as possible; stir in 


Ingredients. the sugar, flour and rice-flour ; 
6 eggs . 
Their weight in sugar. add the vanilla, and at the last mo- 
+B 3 29 rice our 
4% 1» s Wheatey{ or ment the soda. Butter a mould, 
cornflour . . . 
20 drops of vanilla pour in the mixture, and bake in 


¥ teaspoonful of carbonate of 
soda a moderate oven for one hour and 


ten minutes. | 
12.—Oswego Cake. 
Beat the butter to a cream and the eggs to froth. Mix all 


Ingredients. the ingredients together in the 
6 oz. of Oswego flour . : . 
Zn sifted loaf sugar order in which they are given and 
» », fresh butter : ; 
4 fresh eggs beat for ten minutes. Butter a tin 


I tablespoonful of new milk . . 
mould, pour in the mixture, and 


bake in a quick oven. Currants (chopped), candied peel, or 
caraway seeds may be added. 


13.—Pound Cake. 


Beat the eggs ; beat the butter to a cream with a wooden 


Ingredients. spoon, and add all the other in- 
1 Ib. of fresh butter . . . . 
X 1» » loaf sugar in powder gredients in the order in which 
,» », dried and sifted flour . . 
8 fresh eggs they are given ; beat the mixture 
The grated rind of a small . . . . 
lemon for fifteen minutes; line a tin with 


The strained juice ,, 5, 4; ; . 
buttered paper, pour in the mix- 


ture, and bake in a moderate oven 
for one-and-three quarter hours. 


14.—A Plain Seed Cake. 
Beat the butter to a cream ; add the sugar, flour and cara- 


lemon 
One tablespoonful of brandy 


Ingredients, way seeds ; beat the eggs with the 
6 of ist sugar milk ; add them to the mixture 


N2 


370 DAINTY DISHES FOR INDIAN TABLES. 


Ingredients of a Plain Seed Cake. butter a tin mould, pour in 


1 saltspoonful of caraway seeds . 
% Ib. of dried and sifted flour Cake, and bake ina moderate: 


+ gill of milk for fifty minutes. . 
15.—Soda Cake. , 
7 erngredionts. Rub the butter into the fi 
4 xe cnied and sifted four add the salt and the other i 


¥% saltspoonful of salt . . . 
yy Ib. a (washed and dients, the milk (with the so 
rie 


3 oz. of candied peel, chopped it) last. Beat for five mim 
Yéth part of a nutmeg, grated 


2 beaten eggs ° ° . 
% of a pint ee new milk (tepid) butter a tin, put in the mix 


1 small teaspoonful of carbon- . 
1 e of aol and bake in a moderate ove 
about 1% hours. 


16.—Almond Cake. 
Blanch and dry the almonds and pound them to the | 


Ingredients. possible paste (see recipe) ; ' 
¥% Ib. of Jordan almonds . ; 
r oz. of bitter . the eggs till they are exceed 
% Th of sugar dried and sifted light, and add th I 
1 Ib. o ; 

Ibs. of flour ,, amy em very gra 
The rinds of two lemons grated ly to the almonds ; throw I 


sugar by degrees and keep the mixture light by beati 
constantly with a large wooden spoon as the other 1 
dients are added. ® Mix in the flour very gradually ; just 
the butter but do not let it get very hot, and beat it 
gradually into the cake, taking care that each portion | 
tirely absorbed and incorporated before the next is ad 
put in the lemon-rind ; fill a thickly buttered mould wit 
mixture, and bake in a well-heated oven for an hour-a 
half to two hours. When the top is sufficiently colore 
a piece of paper over it to prevent its being burned. 


17.—Cream Cake. 
This: is made with cream which, in sultry weather, 


CAKES. 371 


Ingredients of Cream Cakes. become acid ; if it is the least 

5 oz. of good butter — ope 

= Tb. of fine flour (ried and putrid it must be thrown away. 
silte 

% of pounded, dried, and Take two teaspoonsful each of the 
sifted sugar . . 

A pinch ofsalt ; flour and sugar; mix these with 

2 oz. of candied citron {sliced 

7, pint ob thick cream the soda, pound them in a mortar, 


; tespoonful of carbonate of 2nd put them aside for use. Crum- 
44 pint of thick sour cream ble the butter down in the flour; 
add the sugar and salt; mix well; add the citron; whisk the 
eggs; beat them with the cream; butter a mould; add the 
cream to the mixture which should be converted by it to the 
consistency of ¢#ick batter ; beat it up lightly with a wooden 
spoon ; put in the carbonate of soda (prepared as directed) 
and pour the mixture instantly into the mould. Bake for 
about three quarters of an hour in a moderate oven; it 
should be firm on the surface so as not to sink and be 
heavy when it is drawn out. Put it on its side on a sieve 
reversed to cool. 


18.—Sweet Rusks. 


Prepare the mixture as above, (only put it in a buttered 
baking sheet instead of in a mould) and after it has been 
slightly baked pull the mixture apart with a couple of forks 
and then re-set it in the oven to get crisped. | 


19.—A French Galette. 
Work the butter lightly into the flour, add the salt; beat 


Ingredients. two of the eggs with the cream, 
1 Ib. of fine flour . 
% 4, 5, butter and work the flour into a paste 
1 saltspoonful of salt . . °, 
The yolks of three eggs with it. Roll it into a round 


t small cupful of cream . 
shape three quarters of an inch 


thick; mark it into small diamonds with a knife, brush -some 


372 DAINTY DISHES FOR INDIAN TABLES. 


yolk of eggs over the top, and bake the galette in a toler- 
ably quick oven for about half an hour. It is generally 
eaten hot. 
20.—Savoy Cake. 
Divide the yolks from the whites carefully; put the latter 


Migredients. in a china bowl in a cool place 
'1 lb. of loaf sugar, pounded : . 
and sifted till required. Add the sugar, 
14 €g; 
1 Gz. of the finest flour salt, and essence to the yolk; 
4% 5, 5, cornflour . 
1 saltspoonful of salt work these together with a wooden 
25 drops of vanilla or other es- . . 

sence spoon till they look like creamy 


batter. Whisk the whites to a stiff froth, mix the flour and 
cornflour gradually with the batter; when they are well in 
corporated stir the white in by degrees gently until the whole 
is thoroughly mixed. Put some butter in a plain mould, 
stand it in the oven until it is dissolved, cover the mould 
well with it in eVery part, sift in some finely powdered loaf 
sugar, and when the whole surface of the batter is covered 
with it, shake out the remainder ; pour in the batter, tie a 
broad band of paper round the mould, put a few wood-ashes 
on the baking sheet, place the mould on that, and bake ull 
done in a gentle oven. 


21.—Chantilly Cake. 


Separate the yolks and whites carefully; whip the yolks 

Ingredients. with eight ounces of the suga 

12 o2 of finely powdered sugar and thirty drops of vanilla till in 
Some essence of vanilla . 

6 oz, of well dried and sifted a firm froth; beat the whites toa 

our . 

% of a pint of thick cream stiff froth and add them to the 

yolks; stir in the flour gently and by degrees; beat the mis 

ture for ten minutes; while this is being done take a mould 


with a hollow centre, rub it with butter, fill it half full with 


CAKES. 373 


the mixture, and bake it in a moderate oven for one hour. 
Turn it out on a sieve on its side to cool, and when it is 
quite cold, whip the cream with the remainder of the sugar 
and twenty drops of vanilla to a firm froth and fill the centre 


of the cake with it. 


22.—Genoa Cake. 
Mix all the ingredients except the butter ; melt the butter, 


Ingredients. 
1 lb. of fine flour, dried and 
sifted 
3% Ib. of loaf sugar, pounded 
» yy Currants (washed and 


ri 
¥% Ib. of Sultana raisins (picked 
and rubbed in a cloth) 
6 oz. of mixed candied peel 
(chopped) 
of a nutmeg, grated 
e grated peel of a lemon. 
The strained juice of a lemon 
Two tablespoonsful of rum 
8 fresh eggs, beaten 
t Ib. of fresh butter 


Ingredients of Glaze. 
oz. of sweet almonds 
‘he white of one eg 
2 dessertspoonsful at powdered 
loaf sugar 
2o drops of orange-flower water 


but do not oil it; add it to the 
mixture and beat for a quarter 
of an hour. Have ready a tin 
nine inches square and _ two 
inches deep, pour in the mix- 
ture, and bake in a moderate 
oven for one-and-a-quarter hours. 

Blanch and chop the almonds ; 
beat the white’ of egg with the 
sugar and orange-flower water ; 
brush the cake over with this, 
strew it with the almonds, and 


bake for about a quarter of an hour longer. 


23.—Guernsey Cake. 


Beat the butter to a cream and mix in the ingredients in 


Ingredients. 


lb. of fresh butter 

»y 93 Gried flour . 

1 xy finely ground rice 

» 9) loaf sugar, powcered 

»» 93. Oried cherries, slightly 

chopped 

oz. of sweet almonds. 
(blanched and pounded) 

2 oz. of candied orange-peel, 

(chopped) 

2 oz. of angelica, (chopped) 

The yolks of ei ht eggs 

The whites of three eggs 

2 tablespoonsful of brandy 


i 
% 


the order in which they are 
given; beat the mixture for ten 
minutes ; line a tin with buttered 
paper, pour in the mixture, and 
bake in a well heated oven for an 
hour and twenty minutes. Turn 
out the cake on its side on a sleve 
to get cold. 


374 DAINTY DISHES FOR INDIAN TABLES. 


24.—Thick light Gingerbread. 
Crumble the butter into the flour and add the sugar, 


Ingredients, ginger, and caraway seeds; mix 
8 oz. of butter ° 
2 Ibs. of flour well and then beat in the treacle 
¥% |b. of blown sugar . . 
2 Ibs. of powdered ginger gradually: when that is well in- 
¥% oz. of ground caraway seeds : 
2 Ibs. of treacle corporated whisk the eggs well 


ry} of an ounce of carbonate of and add them ; dissolve the soda 

in half a teacupful of warm water ; 
add it to mixture, stir briskly ; pour it into a shallow well 
buttered tin, and bake in a moderate oven for one-and-half 
hours. 


Note.—This is a light good gingerbread, and for children less butter 
and caraway seeds may be used. 


25.—Rich Gingerbread. 
Whisk the eggs to the lightest possible froth ana pour the 


4 eges Ingredients. treacle gently and by degrees on 
14 Ibs. of treacle 1 1 7 
& on of pale brown sugar to them, beating lightly with a 


1 lb. of sifted flour , . ' 
6 oz. of fresh butter wooden spoon ; continue to beat 


I vo Jamaica ginger, poun- while you add gradually the sugar 


l spoonful ; 

snp, bounded ginger of me and flour. Warm the butter just 
t t . . e . . 

* Brge lemons mew enough to liquify It 5 add it in 


small portions to the mixture which must be well beaten till 
each is incorporated. The success of the cake depends on 
this process, and when It is all mixed, no butter should be 
visible on the surface, and large bubbles will appear in it to 
the last. Now add the ginger, cloves and lemon-rind. But- 
ter a shallow square tin, pour in the gingerbread, and bake 
it for about an hour in a gentle oven. Let it cool a little 
before it is turned out and set it on its edge, supporting tt 
against a jar, till it is cold. 


CAKES. 3758 


26.—Good common Gingerbread. 


Work the butter into the flour and mix the ginger, cloves | 


bof Ingredients: and mace thoroughly with them ; 
I - OF hour e ° ° ° 
6 oz. of butter moisten this mixture with the 
% |b, of brown sugar . . 
1 oz. of ginger powdered treacle (adding a little more if 
¥% teaspoonful of pounded cloves 

and mace : 1 . 
Thee ned of one lemon needed) ; add the lemon-rind ; 
% Ib. of treacle pour it into a buttered tin and 


bake in a moderate oven; or it may be rolled out; cut into 
cakes with a tin cutter and laid on a floured or buttered tin. 


27.—Short Bread. 
Chop the candied peel small and mix it and the flour and 


Ingredients. sugar well together; warm the 
1 lb. of flour o, 
2 07. of sugar, pounded and butter enough to make it just 
sifte oe . . 
1 oz. of candied orange or liquid, and with it make the other 
citron e e e 
8 oz. of butter ingredients into a paste, press 


this paste together with the hands; cut it with a large tin 
cutter about six inches in diameter into round cakes about 
an inch thick, pinch the edges with the fore-finger and 
thumb, lay it on large tins, and bake it in a moderate oven 
for twenty minutes or longer if it 1s not quite crisp. 


28.—A Richer Short Bread. 


Put the flour, rice-flour, sugar, almonds and butter into 


Ingredients. a basin; rub the ingredients to- 
¥ Ib. of dry sifted flour . . 
M4, 5, rice-flour gether until the butter is well 
%*, ,, sifted loaf sugar 


1 oz. of sweet almonds, blanch- mixed in; add the orange peel 
ed and pounded 


Ib. of fresh butter and yolks . 
% oz. of candied orange peel, P y a Cgss; knead to a 
chopped sm r . . 
The yolks of two fresh eggs m smoot paste ; roll it out three 
Some caraway comfits quarters of an inch thick; cut it 


into four square cakes; notch round the edges with a knife, 


376 DAINTY DISHES FOR INDIAN TAPLES, 


prick them over with a skewer, strew the confite over the 
top, and bake upon paper in a moderate oven till crisp and of 
a pale brown color all over, about three quarters of an howr, 


29.—Exceiient Scotch Short Bread, 


Put the butter ina basin and heat it to. a thick cream 


A anette with a wooden spoon; add the 
t oF, ¢ yer 

Han sree, fered ted it, flowr and sugar gradually; bea 
1° Th. of buteor the eyys; add them very gradu 


ty Oye 
Yh Ken eh rantiad heinem, iy ally tothe rest; when the whole 
4 is thoroughly mixed, add the 


mnie serv 
peed inv acgread preqwr. {% 
Hd ae rotet, bw served “ 
¢ / : iW r) 
Len en anny ten brandy; pound the lumps of 


1 pane ip can A sent sugar and add them, spread 
4 tn of ats cami some circular tins about two 


inches deep with butter, pour in the paste, strew the commits 
over thein, sprinkle some fine sugar over the top, place them 
on baking sheets ina moderate oven, and bake until csp 
and very lightly coloured, 


30 -Orange Flower Macaroons, 


Put the sugar (which must be vezy dry) into a basin, The 
Sneredionte, mnotment the oranye flawers come 
ae. th Ney sited white angne ‘ ‘ 

a td. th tha potale rd trchty in, pick the petals off the stems, 

gathered cannye beets ; 

‘Wha whites f sight fresh ages = weivh them and chop therm af 
once with a pair of scissors into the sugar, if there ts any 
Aelay they will he discolored, Add the whites of the eggs 
and whisk the whole well together until it looks like snow; 
drop the mixture at once on to a sheet of paper in little 
cakes, the size of a walnut, and bake in a very Cool oven for 
about twenty minutes or more, When they are ready they 


will be delicately colored a pale fawn color and dried through. 


CARRS, 377 


31.—Almond Macaroons. 


Blanch and pound the almonds; wipe them and set 
Ineredlente, thet in a very cool oven to dry; 


t fh. f sevane sleaende 
16 Ite, (A fre pagar. pended pound then to av smooth 
ash amas ry 


"The whisse A aghe 

Hane wafer paper paate, aiding while pounding the 
white of an egg; whisk the rethaininy whiter to a tiff 
froth ; stir in the eagar ; add the alenonsle by degrees, whisk 
the whole well together, drop the torture upon waler-paper, 
and bake in a mexterate oven till quite crisp and of a pale 


brown, 


32.--Macaroon Cakes. 
Before you pound the sugar take ton bitnpa and grate 


Ingredients the wth off the letaon on thera 
i 97h ewant sbwwaihe , 
10 99 VAltaw alwende Pett an aft the remainder of 
s thal of Wwandy 
ts a lend 3 the suger. Wlaneb all the al- 
; whitar ff 4 agys . 
The tind A a amen tht Ath ; prrit lt £O4, AHL AS 4 tha 


sweet ancl all the bitter, and 24d while ponding the Leandy 
and the whites of tw eggs: bead till « suf fra, Chg 
the remaining abrcwls inte, sell pies aA then i the 
mixture ; new afd the saga; prnitd the longa with the 
lemon-rind on thery: aft than. beat the whites A the re 
Missing, epg: tty ao toll feoAb, | CAA tts, cA bacel ha tei ahiede 
ti it Pree corsnes @ Fetes prosta , Ben fate sheets (A writing 
paper in Vitek Ieregs the we A Waltinte, ot bake wi 4 
moderate oven til Oy wth OA @ jAle fawh UA, alist aia 
cightcen minrtes, 


33. - Queen's Cakes. | 
Mix all the ingradiicnts in x basin i the onder in which 
»% 


376 DAINTY DISHES FOR INDIAN TABLES. 


prick them over with a skewer, strew the confits over the 
top, and bake upon paper in a moderate oven till crisp and of 
a pale brown color all over, about three quarters of an houwr. 


29.—Excellent Scotch Short Bread. 
Put the butter in a basin and beat it to. a thick cream 


hora Ingredients. with a wooden spoon; add the 

T ~O our 

1 1 Sugar, pounded and sif- flour and sugar gradually; beat 
e 

1 Ib. of butter the eggs; add them very gradu 


10 eggs 
14 Ib of candied ‘cron | 23 ally tothe rest; when the whole 
peel in equal propor- j}&% is thoroughly mixed, add the 
skillel,Comacbrandy | brandy; pound the lumps of 
1 pinch of salt USAF sugar and add them; spread 
4 02. of white comfits some circular tins about two 
inches deep with butter, pour in the paste, strew the comfits 
over them, sprinkle some fine sugar over the top, place them 
on baking sheets in a moderate oven, and bake until crisp 
and very lightly colored. 
30—Orange Flower Macaroons. 

Put the sugar (which must be zery dry) into a basin. The 
Ingredients. moment the orange-flowers come 

2 Ibs. of dry sifted white sugar . . 
2 02. of the. petals, of ‘freshly in, pick the petals off the stems, 
The whites of eight fresheggs weigh them and chop them af 
once with a pair of scissors ¢zfo the sugar; if there is any 
delay they will be discolored. Add the whites of the eggs 
and whisk the whole well together until it looks like snow; 
drop the mixture at once on to a sheet of paper in little 
cakes, the size of a walnut, and bake in a very cool oven for 


about twenty minutes or more. When they are ready they 
will be delicately colored a pale fawn color and dried through 


CAKES. 377 


31.—Almond Macaroons. 
Blanch and pound the almonds; wipe them and set 


Ingredients. them in a very cool oven to dry; 
1 Ib. of sweet almonds ; 
134 Ibs. of fine sugar, pounded pound them to a very smooth 
‘ The whites of eight fresh eggs . . . 
Some wafer-paper paste, adding while pounding the 


white of an egg; whisk the remaining whites to a stiff 
froth ; stir in the sugar ; add the almonds by degrees, whisk 
the whole well together, drop the mixture upon wafer-paper, 
and bake in a moderate oven till quite crisp and of a pale 
brown. 


32.—Macaroon Cakes. 


Before you pound the sugar take two lumps and grate 


Lueredints. the rind off the lemon on them. 

oz, Of Sweet almon e ° 

x bitter almonds Pound and sift the remainder of 
nful of brandy 

19 02 of loaf sugar the sugar. Blanch all the al- 

The whites of six eggs 

The rind of a lemon monds ; pound two ounces of the 


sweet and all the bitter, and add while pounding the brandy 
and the whites of two eggs; beat till in a stiff froth. Chop 
the remaining almonds into small pieces ; add them to the 
mixture ; now add the sugar; pound the lumps with the 
lemon-rind on them ; add them; beat the whites of the re- 
maining eggs to a stiff froth ; add them, and beat the mixture 
till it becomes a firm paste; drop it on sheets of writing 
paper in little lumps the size of walnuts, and bake ina 
moderate oven till dry and of a pale fawn color, about 
eighteen minutes, 


33.-—Queen’s Cakes. 
Mix all the ingredients in a basin in the order in which 


N2 


378 


Ingredients of Queen's Cakes. 


¥% Ib. of dried fine flour 
% ,, 5, sifted loaf sugar 
6 oz, of currants, well washed 
and dried 
6 fresh eggs, well beaten 
¥ |b. of fresh butter, dissolved 
but not oiled 
The grated rind of half a lemon 
Two tablespoonsful of brandy 


DAINTY DISHES FOR INDIAN TABLES. 


they are given and beat the mix- 
ture for about ten minutes; but- 
ter some little tin moulds of 
various shapes, pour in the mix- 
ture, and bake in a quick oven 
for about fifteen minutes, 


34.-—Banbury Cakes. 
Mix all the ingredients except the butter and flour 


Ingredients. 


1 Ib of currants (well washed 
and dried 
420z. of beef suet (finely minc- 


e€ 
3 02. of candied orange peel 
(shredded small) 
3 02z, of candied lemon-peel 
1 small pinch of salt 
% oz. of mixed spices (pounded) 
4s» ») Macaroons or ratafias 
(rolled to powder) 
14 02. of butter 
1 lb. of flour 


well together ; make a light paste 
with the butter and flour; roll 
it out once or twice to prevent 
its rising too much; roll out half 
of it in a very thin square and 
spread the mixed fruit and spice 
equa!ly upon it. Moisten the 
edges, lay on the remaining half 


of the paste rolled equally thin; press the edges securely 
together ; mark it over with the back of a knife in regular 
divisions two inches wide and three long; bake it in a well 
heated oven for from twenty-five to thirty minutes, and 
divide it into cakes while still warm. 


35.—Tea Cakes. 
Put aside a teacupful of the flour; put the rest into a 


Ingredients. 


1 lb. of good flour, dried and 


sifted 
1 saltspoonful of salt 
4 oz. of German yeast 
Y Ib. of sifted loaf sugar 
lé of a nutmeg, grate 


6 oz. of butter, beaten to a 


cream 
4 fresh eggs well beaten 


large basin with the salt; mix the 
yeast with rather more than agill 
of tepid water and stir it into the 
flour till it forms a soft paste: 
cover the basin with a clea 
cloth and let it stand on th 


hearth not too close to the fire for an hour to rise; then add 


CARES, 379 


the other ingredients in the order in which they are given. 
Divide the dough into eight cakes ; use the reserved flour 
for making them up; place them on a tin and bake in a 
quick oven until nicely browned, about twenty minutes. Cut 
through the centre, spread with fresh butter, and serve very 
hot. 


36.—Plain Buns without Butter. 
Dilute the yeast with the milk till it is quite smooth; put 


Ingredients. as much of the flour to it as _ will 
1 oz. of sweet German yeast . 
z pint of warm new mil make a smooth thick batter; 
2 lbs, of flour . 
¥% Ib. of sugar throw a thick cloth over the pan 


1 saltspoonful of salt . . . . 
A few. currants washed and in which you have mixed it and 


. stand it where the fire will warm 
but not heat it. When it is well risen (which will take two 
hours or more) and bubbles appear on tle top, add the salt 
and sugar and as much more of the flour as will form a 
light dough. Leave it to rise again, and if it is too firm to 
mould with the fingers, beat it with a strong wooden spoon 
and put it into tin pans, slightly buttered, to bake. Strew a 
. few currants on the surface ; put the tins into a quick oven 
and bake until the entire surface is browned. 

Note.—To make these richer use less milk, crumble up two or three 
ounces of butter very finely in the flour which is added to the batter 
after it has risen, When the dough is ready, roll it into balls, put 


them on the tin some inches apart, wash the tops with milk, sift sugar 
ever the top, and bake as directed. 


37.—Soda Buns. 
Work the butter into the flour with the fingers until it is 


Ingredients, quite in crumbs; mix in the 
3 Ib. of flour ‘ , 
3 02. of butter sugar, salt, and rind; boil the 


4 sugar . ; 
A pinch of salt cream and add it to the rests mix 


380 DAINTY DISHES FOR INDIAN TABLES. 


Ingredients of Soda Buns. and add at once the yolks and 
1 oz. of candied orange peel 


(chopped fine) whites of the eggs; when the 
1 sad teacupful of cream . . 
2 yolks of eggs whole is well mixed, dust over 
I e€ 


% ofa teaspoonful ofcarbqnate the soda and beat it well into the 

mixture. Rub an oven tin with 
butter, drop the buns on it with a spoon, and bake ina 
moderate oven. When they are firm to the touch all over 
and well colored underneath, they are done. 


38.—Oat Cakes. 


Crumble the butter into the oatmeal; add the salt; work 


Ingredients. the meal into a dough with as 
2.Ibs. of coarse Scotch oatmeal . . 
Y%lb. of butter little warm water as possible; roll 


inch of sal 
t pinch of salt them out very thin, and bake on 


a girdle or in a very thick frying pan till quite crisp. They 
may also be made without butter. 


39.—Soda Scone. 


Rub the lard carefully into the flour in a basin until there 


Ingredients. are no lumps; add ‘the salt; make 
oz. of freshJard 77 oe . 
2 " ° dry fine flour it into a dough with the butter 
4% saltspoonful of salt ° . 
Some sour buttermilk § milk; sift the soda _ carefully 


¥ saltspoonful of carbonate of ’ 
soda through your fingers over the 


: . dough; mix it well in. Lay the dough on a pastry board 


with plenty of flour; knead it, roll it out to about halfa 
inch thick. Puta girdle or very thick frying pan on tk 
fire to warm; when it is well warmed cut the paste into 
triangles, lay it on the girdle, and bake. When it is dom 
on one side, s/ight/y browned, and with small bubbles 0 
it, turn it over and bake in the same way on the other side 
If you have not used up all the dough repeat the process 


Pe om. “pee ew OK ; 
Aiwih - 2 4 . 


CAKES. 381 


n the cakes are ready put a sieve near the fire, cover 
ith a cloth, and lay the scones on this as they are 
. Eat at once with butter. 

Note—The lard may be omitted. 


40.—Gingerbread Nuts. 


ub the butter into the flour, add the ginger and lemon- 


Ingredients, rind; add the lemon-juice, ho- 
. of sifted flour 
‘an oz. of finely powdered ney and treacle; knead to a firm 


ginger 


“grated rind of a lemon paste and let it stand in a cool 
. Strained juice ,,_ ;, 
:. of good butter place for an hour or longer. 


+ of geod treacle (slightly Roll it out a quarter of an inch 

thick, cut it into small round 
s with a tin cutter, and bake in a quick oven till quite 
), about fifteen minutes. 


41.—Plain Dessert or Wine Biscuits. 


ub the butter into the flour in fine crumbs and make 


Ingredients. it into a stiff paste with the milk, 
» of flour 
r. of fresh butter Roll the paste out about half an 


rut half a pint of new milk . . . . . 
inch thick, and cut it with a tin 


er into round pieces the size of a rupee. Pile them 
on the other till all are done ; then roll them out very 
, prick them and lay them on lightly floured tins, the 
ked side downwards; put them in a moderate oven 
1 few minutes. They should be very crisp and slightly 
wned. 

42.—Sweet Biscuits. 


fix the butter into the smallest possible crumbs in the 


Ingredients. flour; add the sugar and make 
3s. of very good flour te oe 
z. of good butter this into a firm paste with the 


, 4, fine dry sifted sugar ; . . . 
ne new milk milk ; beat this mixture well with 


382 DAINTY DISHES FOR INDIAN TABLES. 


a rolling pin, and when it is extremely smooth roll the paste 
out one-third of an inch thick, cut it into squares with a 
small cutter, and bake the biscuits in a very slow oven until 
they are quite crisp all over. 


43.—Arrowroot Biscuits. 
Beat the butter to a cream; add the sugar ; beat the 


Ingredients eggs with the vanilla, add them 
6 oz. of butter . 
3 ys 5) SUgar to the butter; beat in the arrow- 
3 eggs 
1 breakfastcupful of arrowroot root and flour very gradually ; 
I = ._1459 fine flour . . 
25 drops of vanilla when the whole is well mixed, 


let it stand two hours. Roll it out, cut into circles 
with a tin cutter, and bake in a moderate oven until 


quite crisp. 


44.—Brown Bread Biscuits. 
The almonds are to be pounded without being blanched. 


Ingredients. Break the eggs, the yolks into a 
lb. of pounded sugar . . . 
8 oz, of brown flour basin, the whites into a bowl; 


6 ,, ,, Jordan almonds 
6 drops of essence of bitter al. add the sugar, flour and almonds 


12 eggs “ to the yolks, and beat them well 
together for twenty minutes with a wooden spoon; whisk 
the whites to a firm froth, add them to the rest. Have 
ready some small paper cases; fill them with the mixture. 


powder them with sugar, and bake in a moderate oven untr 


crisp. 


45-—Naples or Finger Biscuits. 


Prepare some batter as for Savoy Cake (see recipe) ; havt ’ 
ready a sheet of foolscap paper; cut it in two, fold each 
piece lengthwise in order to mark a straight line down the 


CAKES. 383 


centre. Fill a biscuit forcer* with some of the batter; fold 
down the open end; hold the forcer in the right hand, press 
the batter: out with the thumb, and guide the pointed end 
with the ‘left hand. By this means the biscuits must be 
spread in straight lines like fingers, on each side of the 
straight line in the middle of the sheet of paper. When the 
sheet is full, place it on a baking sheet, sift finely pounded 
sugar over it; shake off the loose sugar, put the sheet in a 
very moderate oven, and bake for about a quarter of an 
hour. , 


* When there was none at hand we have made cones of thick cartridge 
paper which have answered the purpose very well. 


46.—Finger Biscuits Glace. 

Prepare some finger biscuits (see preceding recipe), or else 
bake the batter of Savoy or Spongecakes on a baking tin, 
and afterwards cut them into small cakes any sizes or shapes 
which may be liked. Prepare some chocolate, tea or coffee 
icing (see recipes), and while it is hot dip the finger biscuits 
or cakes in the icing and leave to dry. Cakes prepared in 
this way are delicious, and make a nice dessert dish. 


BREAD. 


GENERAL REMARKS. 


A brick oven heated with wood is far the best to ba 
bread in, but we have seen excellent bread made in | 
ordinary camp ovens; when these are used it is desiral 
to make it up in very small loaves or rolls, otherwise t 
surface becomes hardened and browned long before the hi 
has penetrated to the centre of the dough. 

When a brick oven is used it should be well heated w 
faggot wood and two or three solid logs; when it is clear 
the door should be closely shut for quite half an hour befc 
the baking commences. The heat will then be well susta 
ed for a succession of bread, pies, cakes, and pastry. 

Bread requires great care to keep it wholesome and fre: 
It should, as soon as it is perfectly cold, be laid in a lar 
earthen pan with a cover which should be kept free fro 
crumbs and frequently scalded, and then wiped very dry f 
use. Loaves which have been cut, should have a small 
pan appropriated to them, and this also should have tt 
loose crumbs wiped from it daily. The pans should stan 
on two pieces of wood about four inches deep, so as! 
allow a current of air to pass under them. 


BREAD. 385 


1.—To freshen Stale Bread and Pastry. 


If loaves be placed in a gentle oven and heated quite 
through they will eat like newly-baked bread. Pastry can 
be heated in the same way. They must not however be left 
in it so long as to become hard and dry, but they must be 
heated through. JZarge loaves may be just dipped in cold 
water and placed in a quick oven until they are thoroughly 
dried. As it is very difficult to procure yeast in India we 
have confined ourselves to recipes for making bread without 
it. If carefully made, unfermented bread is quite equal to 
that made with yeast, but the greatest care must be taken 
to procure really good pure flour. 


2.—Unfermented Bread. 


Put the flour into a bowl; mix the soda and sugar with 


Ingredients. one dessertspoonful of the flour, 
1 Ib. of flour . oe 
40 grains of the purest carbonate and rub it through a hair sieve 
or soaa e 
1 teaspoonful of sugar with a wooden spoon on to the 

so drops of muriatic acid . . 

}2 pint of water (more if needed) flour in the bowl; stir it up well 
until the whole is ¢horoughly mingled; dilute the acid in the 
water and with it make the flour into firm dough (using more 
water if needful); stir it constantly into a smooth mass, di- 


vide it into a couple of loaves or small rolls and put it in- 
stantly into the oven. 


‘Vote.— Brown bread may be made in exactly the same manner, using 
either half meal and half flour mixed, or meal only. Baron Liebeg 
considers bread made with wheat only, exactly as it is ground, no part 
being subtracted, as far the most the nutricious and wholesome, and he 


directs that if possible the millers should be induced to prepare it 
without damping it first. 


A 


386 DAINTY DISHES FOR INDIAN TABLES, 


3.—Dairy-Bread made without Yeast. 


Blend the sugar and soda well together ; mix the salt with 


Ingredients, the flour, put it in a basin, and 
1 teaspoonful of pounded sugar 


so grains of the purest carbo- rub the sugar and soda through 


nate of soda . ; . . . 
1 saltspoonful of salt a fine hair sieve into it. Mix 
1 « O our 
Some sour buttermilk them ¢horoughly, and make them 


into a firm but not hard dough with the butter-milk. Divide 
the dough into two or more loaves, and bake a¢ once ina 
thoroughly heated but not fierce oven. 

Note.~The buttermilk must be quite acid, but if it is the least degree 


rancid it will spoil the bread. This and all other unfermented bread 
must be baked the moment it is ready, or it will be heavy. 


4.—An Indian Recipe for Bread. 
Put the flour in a basin, sprinkle the salt over it, knead 


Ingredients. it with as much butter-milk as 
24 0z. of pure atta (for drown . } 
bread, or 24 0z. of puresoo- Will make a soft dough > let it 
jee for white bread) J 
1 saltspoonful of salt stand for a quarter of an hour; 


Some sour butter-milk 
r teaspoonful of carbonate of _ sprinkle the soda over this, mix 
it lightly, divide it into seven 
loaves, and bake instantly in a common degchee or camp 
oven over a moderate heat. If the dough is allowed to 
stand after the soda has been added the bread will be 


heavy. 


DESSERT DISHES, DRIED FRUITS, 
CONFECTIONERY. 


Many of the dishes given under the head of Preserves 
may be served-as Dessert, and any kind of fruit-jelly taken 
out of its own pot and moulded on ice (if it is not stiff 
enough) makes very pretty Dessert Dishes. As it is not 
always easy to get good Confectionery in India, and as 
preserved fruits are very expensive, we give some excellent 
recipes for preparing certain kinds at home. 


1.—Peaches in Brandy. 


Pare some ripe peaches and take out the stones; pre- 
pare a syrup with seven ounces of sugar and half a pint 
of filtered water for every six peaches, boiled together, for 
ten minutes; put the peaches into the syrup and stew 
them very gently for eighteen or twenty minutes, turning 
them constantly. Pour off. the syrup; boil it quickly to 
reduce and thicken it for ten minutes; break the stones, 
blanch the kernels; put the peaches with the syrup into 
large glass jars (empty preserve bottles do well) which they 
should only half fill. When they are quite cold pour in 
very pale French brandy to within half-an-inch of the brim ; 
put in a few of the kernels, six or eight, and cork down 
the jars. | 


388 DAINTY DISHES FOR INDIAN TABLES. 


2.—Brandied Cherries. 

Take some fine cherries, cut off half the length of stalks 
and drop them gently into bottles with wide necks ; leave 
sufficient space in each bottle for four ounces of pounded 
sugar-candy ; fill them up with pale fresh brandy and add a 
few of the kernels, or of apricot kernels, blanched, if pre- 
ferred. Tie the bottles down closely. 


3.—Salad of mixed -Fruits. 


Pick the stalks off fine strawberries and raspberries, and 
put a quantity of them into a bowl. Strew them very plen- 
tifully with powdered loaf sugar, and lay thick Devonshire 
cream (see recipe) entirely over the whole. 


4.—Chestnuts. 


Make a slight incision in the outer skin only of each 
chestnut, to prevent its bursting, and when all are done throw 
them into plenty of boiling water, with a teaspoonful of salt 
to each quart. Boil them for seven or eight minutes ; drain 
them; wipe them on a coarse cloth ; while still hot, roast 
them in a coffee roaster or in a Warren’s corrugated frying 
pan for ten or fifteen minutes, and send them to table in a 
very hot napkin. 


5.—Pearled Fruit. 


Any fruits, such as small bunches of grapes, Cabul grapes, 
gooseberries, cherries, strawberries, raspberries, mulberries, 
&c., may be used for this dish. Very good fruit must be 
selected. Whip the white of afresh egg with half asheny- | 
glass of water on a plate with the blade of a knife unt 
both are well mixed and frothed. Dip the fruit into this 


, 


DESSERT DISHES, DRIED FRUITS, CONFECTIONERY. 389 


mixture for an instant; roll it carefully in hot sifted sugar 


until it is well covered ; shake it gently and lay it in rows 
on a wire sieve, or on sheets of white paper in bright sun- 
shine to dry. 

These fruits dished up on fresh green leaves on a com- 
potier form one of the prettiest dessert dishes imaginable. 


6.—Pistachio Shamrocks. 
(Very good and very pretty.) 

Whisk the white of an egg to a very firm froth ; work half 
a pound of very fine dry sifted sugar into it, or more if need- 
ed, to bring it to a consistency in which it can be worked 
with the fingers. Dry the pistachio nuts at the mouth of an 
oven, or in the sun; roll each nut in the icing until it is 
covered anda good shape; lay them on sheets of thick 
writing paper, placing three together in the shape of a sham- 
rock or trefoil, with a small bit of sugar twisted from the 
centre nut, to form astalk ; when all are ready set them in 
a very slow oven (or in the sun) for twenty minutes or longer, 
until they become quite firm without being colored. Pile 
up on a dish. 


7.—Orange and Lemon Rings. 


Cut some fine oranges and lemons into slices one-sixth of 
an inch thick ; cut out the pulp carefully with a sharp point- 
ed knife, leaving a very thin coating of white pith on the 
peel ; soak these rings for twenty-four hours in cold water 
with a saltspoonful of salt in it; wash them, drain them, 
and boil them in sufficient water for them to float in 
till quite tender; drain them, and when they are cold dip 
them in brandy. Prepare some clarified sugar (see recipe), 
put in the rings, and let them remain until cold ; take them 


390 DAINTY DISHES FOR INDIAN TABLES. 


out and put them on a wire sieve to dry ; boil up the syrup 
and dip in the rings while it is hot, but not boiling ; then 
dry them on a sieve as before ; do this twice every day until 
they become candied. These rings should be made at the 
same time as jelly or punch so as to use the fruit. 

Orange and lemon-rind may be preserved in the same 
way without being cut into rings. Merely divide them in 
half and take out the pulp. 


8.—Chestnuts Glace. 


Make a slight incision in the outer skin only of each 
chestnut, and when all are done throw them into plenty of 
boiling water with a saltspoonful of salt to each quart 
Boil them for half an hour or until tender ; free them from 
their husks. Have ready some liquid barley sugar (see re 
cipe), stick each chestnut with a fork and dip them singly in 
it; lay them on an oiled wire tray or sieve to dry. Serve 
piled up on lace papers on glass dishes. 

Note.—If the barley-sugar gets too hard before the chestnuts are all 


ready, put the pan in which it is into another half filled with boiling 
water and melt it again. 


9.—Pineapple Glace. 


Cut a pineapple in slices half an inch thick; peel it and 
cut out all the specks and eyes ; prepare some clarified sugar 
(see recipe), using one pound of sugar for each pound o! 
fruit; simmer the pineapple in it for five minutes ; take it 
out; drain it on a wire sieve and place itin the sun or be 
fore the fire to dry for about an hour. Boil the syrup till & 
hangs in a long string from the skimmer, (about ten minutes 
will bring it to this point); dip each piece of pineapple ia 


DESSERT DISHES, DRIED FRUITS, CONFECTIONERY. 391 


this; lay it on a wire sieve or fruit-drainer, and stand it in 
the sun. In about ten minutes the fruits may be detached 
without disturbing the sugar, and the fruit will be Glacé. 
It should be kept in a box lined with paper with strips 


of paper between the fruit, and stored in a very dry 
place. 


10.—Peaches or Apricots Glace. 


The fruit must be quite ripe and sound. Wipe off the 
bloom, cut them in half, and take out the stones. Take 
one pound of sugar for each one pound of fruit and pre- 
pare some clarified sugar (see recipe). Dip the fruit twice 
into brandy; put it into the syrup and let it come slowly to 
the boil (five or six minutes) ; turn it carefully into a pan or 
basin, pour the syrup over, and let it stand till next day. 
Pour off the syrup, boil it quickly for five minutes, and pour 
it over the fruit boiling hot. Do this every day for a week ; 
the last time boil it ten minutes; then put in the fruit and 
boil it ten minutes more. When cold take the fruit out, lay 
it on a sieve, dredge it over with pounded loaf sugar, and 
place it in the sun or on a slack oven until it is dry. Keep 
it in a paper box or one lined with paper, with a strip of 
soft writng paper round each piece of fruit. 


11.—Melon Glace. 


Follow the preceding recipe, putting twenty drops of 
essence of vanilla into the syrup. 


12,—Pears Glace. 
Follow the recipe for Peaches and Apricots Glacé. 


392 DAINTY DISHES FOR INDIAN TABLES. 


13.—Strawberriés and Cherries Glace. 


Follow the recipe for Peaches and Apricots, but they will 
only take three days instead of a week, and two minutes 
boiling on the last day. 


14.—To boil Sugar from Syrup to Candy. 


Make some clarified sugar (see recipe). Boil it quickly for 
five or ten minutes. It will then form a ¢hick syrup, and it 
may be drawn out in long threads without breaking, and 
will hang in a long string from the skimmer. After this a 
few minutes boiling will cause it to whiten and form large 
bubbles in the pan. Continue to boil it, stir it without 
ceasing until it rises to the top of the pan, and then ¢sfanily 
ladle it out into paper cases or into dishes, 


15.—Caramel. 


Prepare the sugar as for Candy (see recipe), but when it 
begins to whiten add some lemon-juice or any kind of fruit- 
juice and stir it with a wooden spoon until it is a clear 
smooth mass. Oil a baking sheet with oil of almonds. Pour 
on the caramel. When it becomes set and before it cools, 
mark it in oblong shapes with the back of a knife. When it 
is cold the pieces will break off quite easily. 


16.—Barley Sugar. 


Prepare the sugar as for Candy (see recipe), using three 
pounds of sugar and one-and-a-quarter pints of filtered water. 
When it begins to whiten and bubble and to get very thick, 
add a few drops of essence of lemon and a tea-spoonful of 
citric acid. When it looks clear, pour it on to a marble slab 
or a shallow dish (slightly oiled), and when it begins to 


DESSERT DISHES, DRIED FRUITS, CONFECTIONERY. 393 


harden at the edges form it into lozenges, balls, sticks or any 
form you desire. If it is wanted to form into baskets or to 
glacé chestnuts or small cakes, the vessel in which it is 
placed must be set in a pan of boiling water and liquified. 
Barley sugar must be put in tin canisters as soon as it is 
cold. 


17.—Ginger Candy. 


Break the sugar into lumps ; put it into a preserving pan 


Ingredients. with the water. When the sugar 

1 Ib. of sugar . . 

34 of a pint of water is nearly dissolved, set the pan 
1 teaspoonful of the very best ; 
ginger in powder on a perfectly clear fire and boil 
The rind of one large lemon, a . . 

freshly grated it till it becomes a thin syrup. 


Put the ginger in a large cup ; stir two or three spoonsful of 
the syrup very gradually and smoothly into it; then stir it 
into the syrup in the pan. Watch the mixture carefully, keep 
it stirred with a wooden spoon and drop it often to ascertain 
the exact point of boiling it has reached. When it begins to 
fall in flakes instead of drops, throw in the grated lemon- 
rind, working the sugar round quickly as it is added. Now 
stir the candy constantly till it falls in a mass from the spoon 
and does not fall when heaped up. Then ladle out cxstantly 
(or it will fall into powder) and drop in cakes on to sheets 
of dvy foolscap paper laid on dishes. Do not touch it until 
if is quite cold, when it can be moved without difficulty. 


18.—Orange Flower Candy. 


Beat the egg into the water and pour it on the sugar; 


Ingredients. leave it for ten minutes ; place it 
is of a pint of Altered water over a very clear fire and let it 


2 Ibs. of best loaf sugar in lumps. boil for a few minutes; set it on 


3 on, of the petals of orange 
lossom one side until the scum has sub- 


N2 


394 DAINTY DISHES FOR INDIAN TABLES. 


sided ; clear off the scum; boil the sugar until it is very 
thick ; strew in the orange blossoms by degrees ; continue 
to stir the candy till it rises in a white mass in the pan, then 
lay it zzstantly upon thick dry sheets of paper laid quite flat 
on the backs of dishes or on stone slabs. Take the candy 
off before it is quite cold and lay the other side on the 
dishes. When quite cold shut them up in tin boxes. 


19.—Cocoanut Candy. 


Grate some cocoanuts; strain the milk; take the same 
weight of sugar as of cocoanut ; put the sugar into an ena- 
melled saucepan with the milk a little adove the fire ; boil 
and skim ; when it gets thick and white, add the cocoanut 
and stir till it becomes a paste. When it rises in a mass 
turn it out and proceed as for Orange Flower Candy. (Se 
preceding recipe.) 


20.—Everton Toffy. 


Put the butter into a preserving pan, and as it is just dis- 


Ingredients. solved add the sugar ; stir these 
oz. of butter 
; Ib. of brown or loaf sugar gently Over a very clear fire for 


fifteen minutes ; drop a little of it into a basin of cold water, 
and then if it breaks clean between the teeth it is ready, if 
not continue to boil till it reaches this point ; pour out in- 
stantly on to some dishes rubbed with butter or oil of almonds 
and leave it till cold. Some grated lemon-rind ora few 
drops of essence of lemon may be added to the toffy when 
it is half done. 


21.—Almond Toffy. 
Blanch the almonds, divide them and dry them in a slow 


DESSERT DISHES, DRIED FRUITS, CONFECTIONERY. 395 


Ingredients of Almond Tofy. oven or before the fire. Boil the 
x B. of prown or loaf sugar sugar and butter together for twen- 
2» » almonds ty minutes ; stir in the almonds, 
and boil together until the toffy crackles when dropped into 


cold water or snaps between the teeth without sticking. 


22.—Chocolate Drops. 


Heat a metal mortar ; throw in some cake chocolate broken 
small, and pound it with a heated pestle till it is in asmooth 
paste ; add the same weight of finely powdered sugar and 
beat them till they are thoroughly blended. Roll the mix- 
ture into small balls, lay them on sheets of writing paper, 
and take them off when they are nearly cold. 


23.—Chocolate Bon-Bons. 


Dissolve the chocolate in the water ; add the sugar when 
Ingredients. it is dissolved, put the stewpan 

44 bb. of coarsely sifted sugar se el) te 
7 of fue French chocolate «OF the fire and stir till it is hot, 
1 wineglassful of water but not boiling. Place on sheets 


of white paper in drops the size of a 4-anna piece. 


24.—Coffee Bon-Bons. 


Put the coffee and sugar on the fire, and boil till it 
Ingredients. whitens and bubbles; then add 
7 small cup of sety strong coffee @ very little more coffee and work 
the mixture with a wooden spoon at the sides of the pan 
for about five minutes. When it thickens pour it out on an 
oiled baking sheet about one-sixth of an inch thick. When 
it sets, and before it cools, make it into oblong forms one 
inch by one-and-a-half inch ; when it is quite cold the cakes 
can easily be snapped asunder. 


396 DAINTY DISHES FOR INDIAN TABLES. 


25.—Burnt Almonds or Pralines. 
Rub the almonds in a cloth to clear them from dust, and 


Ingredients. put them in a slack oven or in 
4 off ath of foal front of the fi P 

° su 
4 Oe omtal of oat ee at ont of the fire to dry. repare 
Some cochineal the sugar as for Clarified Sugar 


(see recipe), and boil it till it is white and bubbles ; add the 
vanilla, sugar and some cochineal. Take it off the fire 
instantly ; throw in the almonds and stir well with a wooden 
spoon ; so soon as the almonds are well covered, turn them 
out on a wooden spoon and cover with paper; leave them 
for five minutes. Pick the almonds from the sugar and put 
it back into the stewpan ; add enough water to dissolve it, 
boil it till it bubbles as before, throw in the almonds 
again, stir carefully, and when they are well covered with 
sugar turn them out again on a wire sieve. Again pick the 
almonds from the sugar; put it back in the saucepan with 
a few drops of cochineal; boil it again till it whitens and 
bubbles ; stir in the almonds again, and when they are well 
covered drain them on the wire sieve as before. They 
should now be about three times their original size and 
should be served piled up on a glass compotier. 


26.— Pistachio Pralines. 


Prepare according to the preceding-recipe. 


——a-- gr 
=a 25, Ye 
= fl Rif y C 


Wd If 
yo 


Y/ | 
be. \ 


ICES. 


DIRECTIONS FOR FREEZING. 


To make ices, it is necessary to have a vessel called a 
freezing pot, an ice-pail, and an ice-spoon. When the com- 
position to be frozen is ready, the ice must be beaten quite 
small with a mallet and mixed quickly with two or three 
handsful of saltpetre, or double as much salt. Place the 
freezing-pot firmly in the centre of the ice and press the ice 
closely round it up tothe top. Take off the cover of the 
ice-pot and pour in the preparation to be frozen. Work it 
round or backwards and forwards by means of the handle 
at the top, for eight or ten minutes; then scrape away the 
portion which has frozen to the inside of the pot with the 
ice-spoon and mix it with the rest, otherwise the mixture 
will be full of lumps, and continue the process until the 
whole mass 1s uniformly frozen. 


I.—Strawberry Water Ice. 


Strip the stalks off the strawberries; rub them through a 


Ineredients. fine sieve; mix them with enough 
2 lbs. of strawberries 


Some cold clarified syrup (see Of the syrup to make them agree- 


The strained juice of two small ably sweet; add the lemon-juice, 
pour the mixture into the freez- 
ing pot, and proceed as directed above. 

Note.—All water ices are made in the same way by extracting the 
juice from the fruit, according to the preceding recipe. Where there 
is no fruit, fruit syrups of any kind may be used instead. These ices 
are much more refreshing and wholesome than cream ices. 


398 DAINTY DISHES FOR INDIAN TABLES. 


2.—Ginger Cream Ice. 
Boil the milk, stir in the beaten yolks, the sugar, and all 


Ingredients. the other ingredients in the order 
1 pint of milk . . . . 
6 yolks of eggs in which they are given, Stir over 


8 oz. of sugar 


4 x) 9 preserved ginger chop- the fire until the mixture thick- 
ped small 


2 spoonsful of its syrup _  —s ens Slightly. Take it off, stir it a 
1 teaspoonful of essence of gin. . 
ger, or of ground ginger little longer, and when cold 


freeze it according to directions. 


3—Brown Bread Ice. 


Ingredients. Dry the bread-crumbs in a very 
8 oz. of bread-crumbs . : 
1 pint of thick cream slack oven; whip the cream, stir 


6 oz. of sifted sugar ; . . 
1 wineglassful of any kind of in the crumbs, sugar, and liqueur; 


liqueur . 
mix well and freeze. 


Note. —This cream is delicious, served with fresh strawberries. 


4.—Apricot Cream Ice. 


Boil the apricots with six ounces of the sugar and water 


Ingredients, for ten minutes. Rub them 
to ripe apricots . . 
8 oz. of sugar through a hair sieve; make a 
1 gill of water . . . 
1pint of milk plain custard with the milk, two 


6 yolks of eggs 
ounces of sugar and the yolks: 


when it is ready stir in the fruit pulp, and when cold, freeze. 


Note.—Peaches and plums are prepared in the same way. 


5.—Pineapple Cream Ice. 
Peel and slice the pineapple; boil it till tender (about 


Ingredients. fifteen minutes) with the water 
12 oz. of pineapple . 
1 gill of water and eight ounces of the sugar. 
Iu OZ. OF sugar . . 
1. pint of milk Pound the pine, add it to the 


G yolks Of egys . . 
syrup, rub this through a ha 


ICES. 399 


sieve ; make a custard with the milk, eggs, and two ounces 
of sugar, stir in the fruit, and freeze. | 


6.—Strawberry Cream Ice. 
Take the stalks off the strawberries ; bruise them with the 


Ingredients. sugar; rub this through a hair 
1 lb. of strawberries . . 
8 oz. of sifted sugar sieve; add the pulp to a pint of 
1 pint of cream . . 
10 drops of cochineal cream ; put in the cochineal, and 
freeze. 
7.—Coffee Cream Ice. 
Ingredients. Beat the yolks ; add the coffee, 
8 yolks of e: ‘ . . 
r Large cup of strong coffee milk and sugar ; stir this over the 
1 pint of boiled milk oe os 
8 oz. of sugar fire, strain it through a hair sieve, 


¥% pint of thick cream 
add the cream, freeze and mould 


the ice. 


8.—Chocolate Cream Ice. 


This is prepared in the same way as the preceding recipe, 
except that six ounces of chocolate dissolved in a gill of hot 
water must be substituted for the cup of coffee. 


Many of the recipes for creams may be converted into ex- 
cellent ices by omitting the isinglass, and freezing according 
to directions. 


COFFEE, TEA, CHOCOLATE. 


1.—Coffee. 


It is even more rare to get a good cup of Coffee than to 
get a good dinner or pure wine, and yet nothing is easier. 

In the first place get the berry good, and if you are not 
certain that it has been stored for some time, keep it a year. 
Only as much coffee as is needed should be roasted or 
ground at one time, as it loses its flavour and aroma if kept. 
We should recommend every one to procure a coffee-roaster 
and grinder; they are inexpensive and simple, and it is al- 
most impossible to get a native servant to roast coffee with- 
out burning some and leaving some raw, or to pound it with- 
out reducing it to powder. When properly roasted the ber- 
ries are of a fine light brown, equally colored all over. Then 
grind it, zof to powder, and use at once. 

The best kind of coffee pot is Adam’s percolator, or the 
French coffee percolator which can be procured almost any- 
where and is very inexpensive. The proportions to use are 
one ounce of coffee to a large breakfast cup of filtered water. 
Heat the coffee pot ; put the coffee into the well ; place the 
presser on it, stand it near the fire; pour in a little boiling 
water, two minutes later add a little more, and so on till you 
have put in the requisite quantity. By attention to the fore- 
going, excellent coffee will invariably be produced. When 
coffee is served after dinner it should be handed round with 
lump sugar and sugar-candy and small glasses of liqueur. 


COFFEE, TEA, CHOCOLATE. 401 


» | 2.—Tea. 


There is no great difficulty in making tea, and yet how 
rare it is to get it really good. Filtered water should always 
be used, and if possible a small kettle should be kept 
solely for this purpose. First heat the tea-pot by pour- 
ing in scalding water ; pour this out; put in the tea-leaves 
instantly and leave them there for two minutes; add a 
little water (less than a quarter of a pint); let it stand 
three or four minutes; fill up the tea-pot, and pour out a 
well made cup of tea. Serve with good fresh milk or 
cream, and lump sugar. 


3—Russian Tea. 

A most delicious beverage for hot weather is procured 
by making tea as above directed (the tea should be of the 
very finest quality), and pouring it off at once into tumb- 
lers containing two lumps of sugar and one slice of lemon. 


4.—Chocolate. 


Rasp one ounce of good chocolate and boil it from five 
to ten minutes with four tablespoonsful of water. When 
it is quite smooth add a pint of new milk, boil it again, 
and stir it quickly to froth it.” 

For water-chocolate, use three quarters of a pint of water 
instead of the milk and send rich cream to table with it. 


5.—A Spanish Recipe for serving Chocolate. 


Take one ounce of chocolate and half a pint of cold water 
for each person; rasp it in a small mortar, put it over a 
slow fire, and stir it quickly till it is as smooth as custard ; 
pour it at once into cups and serve it with a glass of sugar 

12 


402 DAINTY DISHES FOR INDIAN TABLES. 


and water, iced water or water ‘ice, and with very delicate 
toast cut in narrow strips, or finger biscuits. Milk may be 


used instead of water if preferred. 


DRINKING CUPS, SYRUPS, LIQUEURS, &c. 


1.—Claret Cup. 


Put the mint in a wineglass of claret to infuse. Put all the 


Ingredients. ingredients into a jug; imbed it 
1 bottle of claret . . 
2 bottles of soda water in ice; leave it for half an hour, 
1 sprig of mint (or burrage) . . . 
A few slices of cucumber or Take it out, strain off the ingre- 

lemon . . . 

4 grates of nutmeg dients, add the claret in which 
x liqueur glass of curacao . 
1 oz. of bruised sugar-candy. the mint was steeped. Serve at 


once, 
| 2.—Badminton Cup. 


Ingredients. 


1 bottle of red Burgundy Place these ingredients in a 


2 bottles of soda water : . . 
The rind of one orange covered jug imbedded in rough 
‘The juice of two oranges . 

1 wineglass of curagao ice for about one hour before 
sre ree, (oF mint) it is wanted. Strain it off into 


I sprig of Verbena 4 
1 oz. of bruised sugar-candy ° 
A few slices of cucumber another jug. 


3.—Champagne Cup. 


Ingredients. . . . 
1 bottle of champagne Place all these ingredients in a 


2 bottles of soda water ; i 
bunch of mint or barrage covered jug enbedded in rough 


1 orange sliced, or 1 slice of a ; : 
late lemon ice for an hour, then decanter it 


1 oz. of pounded sugar-cand 
4 grates of nutmeg y free from the herbs, &c. 


4.—Sauterne Cup. 


Use the same ingredients as for Champagne Cup, substi- 
tuting Sauterne for Champagne. 


404 DAINTY DISHES FOR INDIAN TABLES. 


5.—Moselle Cup. 


Use the same ingredients as for Champagne Cup, substi- 
tuting Moselle for Champagne. 


6.—Chablis Cup. 


Use the same ingredients as for Champagne Cup, substi- 
tuting Chablis for Champagne. 


7.—Cider Cup. 
Use the same ingredients as for Champagne Cup, substt- 
tuting Cider for Champagne and adding one small glass of 


Cognac. 
8.—Beer Cup. 


Ingredients. . ; . 
1 quart of stout or pale ale Mix the ingr edients in a jug, 


¥% oz. of moist sugar 

A small slice of bread, toasted and leave them to steep for half 
rown ° 

4 grates of nutmeg an hour before they are required. 

4 » oy Singer 


9.—Oxford Punch. 


Rub the rind of three lemons with lump sugar ; put this 


dng redients. sugar into a large jug with the 

10 lemons 
4 oranges peel of two oranges and two of 
6 glasses of calf’s-foot jelly . 
2 quarts of water the lemons cut very thin, the 
1 bottle of capillaire i. 
u 1, white wine juice of all the oranges and 
1 x pint "of French brandy ; oy 

1» 5, Jamaica rum lemons and the jelly, liquid 


: bottle of orange shrub 


Stir these well together; pour 
two quarts of boiling water on them; cover the jug closely 
and set it near the fire for a quarter of an hour. Stram 
the mixture through a sieve into a punch bowl; sweeten 
it with the capillaire, and add the remainder of the it 
gredients, stirring the mixture all the while. If not sweet 


enough add some sugat. 


DRINKING CUPS, SYRUPS, LIQUEURS, &C. 408 
10.—The Regent’s Punch. 


Pare the oranges and lemon as thin.as possible ; infuse 


Ingredients. them for an hour in the syrup ; 
3 oranges . 
1 lemons add the juice of the oranges and 
% pint of cold thin syrup } 
I pint of stron een tea ; 
g Pint of strong gr emons. Sweeten the tea; when 


1 glassful of old Jamaica rum it is quite cold, add it to the 


I ” ») arrack 


I, » French brandy . 1 in- 
Foon pineapple syrup syrup; put in all the other in 
2 bottles of champagne gredients, pass it through a fine 


muslin sieve into a jug, and put it in ice till required. 


1r.—Milk Punch. 


Rub the sugar on the lemons and oranges to extract 


Ingredients, the essence from the peel; squeeze 
8 Ibs. of loaf sugar . . . 
16 fine lemons the fruit and strain the juice. 
4 oranges 2 . 
3 bottles of old rum Put the sugar and juice into an 
1 bottle of French brandy 
t 4, ;,.0ld Madeira earthen pan and pour the water 
; quarts of boiling water ee . 
3¢ drachm of grated nutmeg boiling on to it. Take a quart 
4 inches of cinnamon . . . . 
3 pints of new milk jug in each hand; dip them in 


the liquid, lift them up and pour the liquid back rapidly 
from as great a height as possible; do this for twenty mi- 
nutes. Then add the spirit and wine, a bottle at a time, 
and continue the mixing process until the punch has a 
smooth soft flavour; this will take about three quarters of 
an hour. Boil the spice in the milk ; pour it into the punch; . 
stir it once, quickly ; then cover the pan with an earthen lid, 
lay a thick cloth over that, and let it remain undisturbed 
for eight hours. Strain it twice through flannel or three 
times if it is not bright; put it into bottles and cork it 
securely. It improves by keeping. 


406 DAINTY DISHES FOR INDIAN TABLES, 


12,.—Milk Punch. 
(Another way.) 


Two or three days before making the Punch, steep the 


Ingredients, lime-peel in the liquor of one of 
ro bottles of rum ; 
5 4 5) Water the bottles of rum. Mix all the 
2 455 , lime-juice . : 
7 Ibs. of loaf sugar ingredients together; strain the 
3 quarts of milk ; . ; 
2 nutmegs (grated) rum in which the lime-peel has 


The peel of 25 limes 


been steeped over the rest ; bottle 
the mixture and seal the corks down. 


13.—Turtle Punch. 

Follow the directions for milk-punch and substitute a 
quart of green tea made as follows, for the milk and spice:— 
Put two ounces of fine gunpowder tea into a jug, poura 
quart of boiling water over it, and let it stand ten minutes: 
then strain. ; 


14.—Pineapple Punch. 


Follow the recipe for milk-punch, substituting one pound 
of ripe pineapple (cut into very thin slices) for the oranges, 
and a quart of rice water (made as follows) for the milk:— 
Boil half pound of the best rice in two quarts of water till 
it is soft and pulpy; then strain the water through a fine 
sieve. 

15.—Cambridge Milk Punch. 


Put the milk, the thinly-pared lemon-rind, and sugar into 


Ingredients. a saucepan ; bring it s/oz/¥ to boil, 

2 quarts of new milk . 

The rind of one large lemon take out the lemon-rind ; take the 
43 Ib. of good lump sugar 

The yolks of 4 fresh eggs saucepan off the fire: beat the 
43 of a pint of cold milk . ‘ . 
(i pint of rum yolks with the cold milk ; strain 
> an) » Orundy 


this through a sieve; stir it into 


DRINKING CUPS, SYRUPS, LIQUEURS, &C. 407 


the milk in the saucepan ; add gradually the rum and bran- 
dy ; mill the punch to a froth, and serve at once. 


16.—Hot Punch. 
Rub the sugar on the lemons to extract the essence of the 


ingredients. peel ; squeeze out the juice and 
I pint of rum . . 
1 wineglassful of brandy strain it ; put the sugar and juice 
1 tablespoonful of noyeau . . 
6 2, of loaf sugar in a bowl; pour the water, Joz/- 
3 lemons . . . : : : 
134 pints of boiling water ing, into it; stir rapidly till the 


sugar is dissolved ; then add the spirit, and stir till it is well 
mixed. 


17.—Whisky Punch. 


Follow the preceding recipe, using a pint of Whisky in- 
stead of the three kinds of spirits mentioned. 


18.— Bishop. 
Stick the oranges with the cloves ; put them into a quick 


{ngredients. oven till the skin is dry and crisp. 
2 bottles of either claret or port ‘ . . 
3 oranges Put the other ingredients with the 
3 tangerine oranges . . 
10 o2. of loaf sugar wine into a saucepan and make 

cioves eqe 

%{ of a nutmeg them boiling hot. Put the 
2 inches of cinnamon . 5 
4 allspice oranges into a large china bowl, 


pour the wine over, and serve at once. 


19.—Mulled Claret or Port. 
Put these ingredients into a bright tin pot with a lid; 


Inrgedients. place it over a gentle heat till 
1 bottle of wine eae oe 
5 oz. of loaf suger nearly boiling ; turn it into a hot 
3 cloves . . . . . 
% of a nutmeg, grated silver jug with a lid and send it to 


table. 


408 DAINTY DISHES FOR INDIAN TABLES. 


20.—A French Recipe for Mulled Wine. 


Boil the spice in the water with the sugar and orange-rind 


Ingredients. "until they form a thick syrup, 
11 wineglassful of water : 
24 cloves _ which must on no account be al- 
Py} of an ounce of ginger and cin- . . 
namon pounded lowed to burn. Pour in the wine, 
2 02. of sugar . 7 . ar ; . 
1 pint of claret or port wine stir it till it is on the pornt of 


The rind of an orange _ 
boiling ; serve at once. 


21.—Negus. 
_ Angredients Rub the sugar on the lemon 

1 pint of red or white wine . 
1 y. 5, boiling water peel to extract the flavour ; squeeze 
3 0z. of loaf sugar . ? . 
1 lemon out and strain the juice; mix 


¥% ofa nutmeg, grated . . 
all the ingredients together and 


serve either hot or cold. 


22.—Sherry Cobbler. 


Ingiedients. 
1 tumblerful of clear ice, Put all the ingredients into 3 
pounde . . . . 
1 tumblerful of fresh straw- glass jug ; stir for eight minutes; 


berries - . 
1 large wineglassful of curacao imbibe through straws or glass 
6 oz. of finely powdered loaf 5 
tubes. 


sugar 
1 pint of fine old sherry 
23.—Gin Sling. 


Put the lemon and sugar into a large tumbler ; fill up 


Ingredients. nearly to the brim with pounded 
2 slices of lemon . . . 
3 lumps of loaf sugar clear ice; add the gin; stir and 


1 wineglassful of old gin 
suck through a straw. 


24.—Brandy Smash. 


Ingredients. Put the lemon, pineapple, and 
3 slices of lemon . 
> 99 pineapple sugar into a large tumbler ; fill up 


I dessertspoonful of sifted loaf 


with pounded ice ; add the brandy: 


sugar 
x wineglassful of brandy . . 
mix well and drink. 


DRINKING CUPS, SYRUPS, LIQUEURS, &C. 409 


25.—Institution Cup. 


Ingredients. 
r pint of champagne 
1 gill of pin eappre syrup Shake all these well together ; 
I yy 9) straw . 
1 orange, sliced strain into tumblers. 


y 
1 tumblerful of pounded ice 


-26.—Pineapple Jelly. 


Angredients. Peel and slice and cut up the 
1 ripe pineapple . . 
The wah of 2 oranges pineapple into a large bowl ; add 
1 gull of raspberry syrup h ind { i di . 
T4359 marasch ino the remainder of ingredients ; 
I 99 93 0 ° 
r bottle of sparkling moselle mix well, and serve. 
t Ib. of clear ice, pounded 


27.—Knickerbocker. 


Ingredients. 


Mix these together and drink 


N 


tablespoonsful of lemon-water, 
iced 


1 
§ pint of Madeira at once. 
x bottle of iced soda water 


28.—F roster. 


Ingredients. 


gill of pale sherry . . . 
>» Noyeau Mix all these ingredients well, 
peach leaves . 
slices of lemon and drink at once. 
oz. of sugar 
bottle of iced soda water 
lump of ice 


aww Ahn 


29. —Ching-Ching. 


Ingredients. 


| 1 gill of old rum 


1 sliced orange . . 
A few drops of essence of cloves Mix and drink at once. 


» 9» Peppermint 
4 lumps of sugar 
x tumblerful of pounded ice 


30.—St. Charles. 


Ingredients. 


2 tablespoonsful of cherry or . . 

raspberry water, iced Mix and drink at once. 
z small glass of kirsch-water 
1 bottle of iced soda water 


AY 


4TO DAINTY DISHES FOR INDIAN TABLES. 


31.—Cocktail. 


Ingredients. 


3 lumps of sugar 
1 dessertspoonful of Savory and 
Moore’s essence of Jamaica- 


ginger 
x wineglassful of hot water 


Put these into a tumbler and 
fill up with hot water. 


32.—Mint Julep. 


Put the orange-rind and juice, the sugar and mint, into a 


Inevredients. 


The thin rind of half an orange 
The juice of one orange, strained 
1 sprig of young mint 

spoonful of sugar 

glass of gin 


I 
I 
t 99 98 sherry . 

1 tumblerful of pounded ice 


large tumbler ; fill up nearly with 
ice, mix well; add the gin and 
sherry, pour rapidly from one 
tumbler to another, and serve at 
once. 


33.—Ginger Beer. 
Boil the ginger, sugar, and lemon-peel in the water till 


lneredients. 


314 lbs. of loaf sugar 
6 oz. of bruised ginger 
2 ,, 5, cream of tartar 
The thin rind of four lemons 
The strained juice of four lemons 
2 gallons of water 
1 tablespoonful of good yeast 


the sugar is dissolved ; pour it 
into an earthen pan ; put in the 
cream of tartar and lemon juice, 
and let it stand 24 hours; add 
the yeast ; let it stand 24 hours; 


strain ; bottle and cork securely. It will be ready for use in 


a week, 


34.—Lemonade. 
Mix all the ingredients in a jug imbedded in ice; let it 


Ingredients. 


1% pints of clarified syrup (see 
recipe) 
1» 99 Spring water 
The juice of 6 lemons 
The rind of2 __,, 


stand for two hours. — Strain 
through a jelly bag or very fine 
muslin, Serve in a large glass 
jug. 


Note—A cheaper kind of lemonade is made by slicing two lemoss 
in a jug, adding four ounces of sugar, and pouring one quart of boiling 


water on them. 


DRINKING CUPS, SYRUPS, LIQUEURS, &c. 4it 


35.—Milk Lemonade. 


, oe ebredients. Dissolve the sugar in the water ; 
oz. of loaf sugar . 

1 pint of boiling water. add the lemon juice and sherry ; 
¥% of a pint of lemon juice ‘rin th Ik . 1 d 

4s ” sherry Ir int ml 

apo Shey st e » M1X well, and pass 


through a jelly bag till clear. 


36.—Orangeade. 
Make a syrup with one pint of water and the sugar ; steep 


Ingredients. the rind of three oranges in it for 
12 oranges 
4 pints of filtered water half an hour ; extract the orange- 


12 oz. of sugar te 
juice from all the oranges ; pass 


it through a clear hair sieve or muslin into a jug ; add the 
syrup and the rest of the water; mix well and stand in ice 
for an hour. 
37.—Strawberry Water. 
Pick off the stalks ; add half a pint of the water; bruise 


Ingredients. with a wooden spoon; add the 
1 lb. of ripe strawberries . 
34 »5 finely sifted sugar sugar ; let it stand for two hours ; 
3. pints of filtered water . . 
he juice of one lemon pass it through a hair sieve and 


repeat the process if it is not clear. Add the remainder of 
the water and lemon-juice, put it into a jug, and stand in ice 
for an hour. 


38.—Pineapple Water. 


Peel, slice, and pound the pineapple to pulp; put this 


Ingredients, into a basin; add the boiling 


A small pineapple . . 
1 pint of boiling syrup made Syrup, then the lemon-juice; stir 
with one pint of water and 


12 oz, of sugar together; cover with a plate and 
The juice of 1 lemon . 
1 quart of filtered water let it stand for two hours ; filter 


through a silk sieve or fine muslin folded in four ; add the 
water, stand it in ice for an hour, and serve in a jug. 


4r2 DAINTY DISHES FOR INDIAN TABLES. 


39.—Pomegranate Water. 
Take the red pulp and put it into a basin with the sugar : 


Ingredients. bruise well with a wooden spoon, 
6 pomegranates o 
12 oz. of sugar add the water, lemon-juice and 
1 pint of water . . 
The juice of two lemons cochineal ; mix and filter through 
A few drops of cochineal . . 
a jelly-bag ; stand in ice for an 
hour. 


40.—Mango Water. 
Take out all the pulp and put it in a basin with the 


Ingredients. sugar ; bruise well with a wood- 
4 Mangoes . 
12 oz, of sugar en spoon; add the water; mix 


1% pints of water . 
well and stand in ice for an how. 


41.—Syllabub. 


Put the sugar into a large bowl and pour the strained 


Ingredients. lemon-juice on to it; stir these 


¥% |b. of sugar, broken small . 
one juice of 2 lemons, strained well together ; add the port-wine, 


. rf f . . 
re sherry sherry, and brandy ; grate in the 
4% 5, 4, brandy , 
1 nutmeg ik nutmeg; hold tbe bowl under 
2 tS of MUuK ° ° 
a the cow and milk it full. In 
serving, put a portion of the curd into each glass, fill it up 


with whey and pour a little rich cream on the top. 


42.—Strawberry Vinegar. 
The strawberries must be ripe and freshly gathered: 


Ingredients. weigh them and put them into 
4 quarts of strawberries . . 
3 quarts of vinegar large glass jars or wide-necked 
I ib. of best loaf sugar for each : 
1 Ib, of vinegar bottles; and to each pint pow 


one-and-a-half pints of fine pale white-wine vinegar. Te 
a thick paper over them and let them stand two or thre 


DRINKING CUPS, SYRUPS, LIQUEURS, &C. 413 


days. Pour off the vinegar; empty the strawberries into 
a jelly bag, or suspend them in a cloth that all liquid may 
drop from them without pressure; replace them with the 
same weight of fresh fruit; pour the vinegar upon this, 
and let it stand three days as before; repeat the process 
again until the flavour of the strawberries preponderates over 
that of the vinegar. Drain the liquid off very closely ; 
strain it through a flannel bag, weigh it and mix it with 
the same weight of sugar, roughly powdered; when it 
is nearly dissolved, stir it in an enamelled stewpan (or a 
stone jar set in boiling water) over a very clear fire until 
it has boiled for five minutes ; skim it thoroughly ; pour it 
into a delicately clean stone bottle or china jug, cover it 
over with a thick folded cloth, and let it stand till next day. 
Put it into pint or half pint bottles, cork it /gAtly, and five 
days afterwards cork tightly down and store in a dry cool 
place. 

A spoonful or two of this in a glass of iced water forms 
a delicious summer drink; and it makes excellent sauces 
for common custard, batter or rice-pudding. 


43.-—Cherry Brandy. 

Either fresh or preserved cherries may be used. Cut 
off half the stalks, drop them into clean dry bottles with 
wide necks ; for each pound of cherries add ten ounces 
of powdered sugar-candy ; fill up the bottles with French 
brandy, cork securely and tie over the top. Keep for nine 
months before using. 

A few cherry or apricot kernels put into each bottle im- 
proves the flavour. 


414 DAINTY DISHES FOR INDIAN TABLES. 
44.—Lime Juice. 
(Zo Preserve.) 

Extract and strain the juice; bottle it; to each bottle 
add one teaspoonful of chalk-powder. Let it stand for two 
days ; then strain through muslin. Bottle again and add 
one teaspoonful of salad oil to keep out the air. The oil 
will float at the top and can be removed either by pouring 
off, or by inserting a piece of cotton-wool which will absorb 
it. ; 


ITEMS FOR INVALIDS. 


I.—Beef Tea. 
The beef should be very fresh; chop it into small dice, 
Ingredients. (leaving out every particle of fat), 
4 Ibs. of beef (the upper side of ke . . 
the round) put it into a jar with the salt and 
1 saltspoonful of salt . 
3 pints of cold water water; tie it closely down; place 


‘it In a saucepan of water and let it boil gently for five hours, 
Strain and serve with fresh made thin toast cut in fingers. 


2.—Beef Tea in Haste. 


When beef tea is required at once, chop two pounds of 
beef as fine as mincemeat, put it into a stewpan with one 
pint of boiling water, stir it over the fire for ten minutes, 
and strain it through a napkin. 


3.—Extract of Beef. 


Cut the beef into pieces half an inch square, free from 


ingredients. fat; put them into a jar with one 
1 Ib. of lean beef . os 
r gill of water gill of water and stand it in the 


x saltspoonful of salt 
oven for half an hour; then add 


a pint of water and put it back into the oven for one-and-a- 
half hours; strain it through muslin and use. 


4.—Extract of Veal. 
Proceed exactly as above, substituting Veal for Beef. 


416 - DAINTY DISHES FOR INDIAN TABLES, 


5.—Mutton Tea. 
Cut the meat into small pieces without any fat; put it 


Ingredients. into an enamelled stewpan with 
3 Ibs. of lean mutton . 
1 oz. of Scotch barley the barley and cold water ; stir it 
1 quart of cold water . . . . . 
1 saltspoonful of salt frequently till it boils; skim it 


with care. Simmer it for three hours; add the salt. Take 
out the mutton, strain off the tea, rubbing as much of the 
pulpy part of the barley through the sieve as will pass 
through without much pressure. Skim off every particle of 
fat, and serve. 


6.—Mutton Broth. 


Put all the ingredients into a stewpan and simmer 


Ingredients. for three-and-a-half hours, skim- 

Ibs. of scrag of mutton : . 

? tumip 8 ming constantly. Then strain it 
1 sprig of parsley . . . 

The heart of a white lettuce through a sieve into a basin and 
1 teaspoonful of salt . . 

3 pints of cold water serve with dry toast cut in fin- 


gers. 

If rice or tapioca are added they must be boiled separate. 
ly till tender, put into the broth after it is strained and 
boiled ten minutes longer. 


7.—Chicken Broth. 


Cut up a fowl and break the leg bones ; put it in a stew- 


eet Ingredients. pan with the water, salt, and 

T Ow es e . 

1 quart of water sugar. Boil gently, skimming 

A teaspoonful of salt . 
, »» sifted loaf constantly for four hours. Strain 


sugar 


into a basin; when cold take off 
the fat and heat a cupful when required. 


Note.—-Very strong chicken broth may be made by following the 
recipe for extract of beef, using only half a pint of water. 


ITEMS FOR INVALIDS. 417 


8.—Calf’s-foot Broth. 
Split the calf’s-foot and put it into a fire-proof jar with all 


Ingredients. the ingredients, Tie down the 
x calf s-foot . . oe 
4 pints of new milk jar, and bake it in a slow oven 
I ” ” water e e 
r saltspoonful of salt for eight hours. Strain through 
1 ” »» sifted sugar 


a sieve into a basin, and when 
cold remove the fat. Heat it when required for use. 


9.—Convalescent Soup. 
| Split and wash the head ; put it into a stewpan with the 


. ingredients. vegetables, salt, sugar, mustard, 

z sheep's . 

2 Ibs. of fresh lean beef and cold water. Simmer gently, 

turnip ° . 

_ -& of a small lettuce skimming frequently for two 
1 saltspoonful of salt 
ry »» loaf sugar hours. Take out the head; cut 
I 4 », fresh made ? 

mustard the meat off the cheeks in neat 


3 pints of cold water 


2 dessertspoonsful of fine oat.  half-an-inch pieces, free from fat; 
; ; rom 
% Bi Nlcepoorefal of port-wine put the bones and trimmings 


back into the soup. Moisten the oatmeal with the gill of 
water and stir it into the soup; simmer two hours longer, 
then strain, Put the pieces of meat into the soup; simmer 
for three-quarters of an hour; skim off every particle of fat, 
add the port-wine, and serve the quantity required im- 
mediately. There will be about one-and-a half pints of soup. 


10.—Savoury Custard. 


Ingredients. Stir the barley into the beef- 
1 tablespoonful of Robinson’s 


patent barley tea; mix well and stir over the 
¥% pint of good beef-tea, (see . 
recipe) fire for five minutes. 


BY 


418 DAINTY DISHES FOR INDIAN TABLES. 


11.—Hasty Oswego Pudding. 


Boil the milk ; stir in the flour; boil five minutes; add the 
Ingredients. egg, well-beaten ; boil one minute 
¥% pint of new milk \ . 
2 tablespoonsful of Oswego flour more, ‘Turn the pudding on a 
1 new-laid egg . 
hot plate and serve with cream 


or honey, if permitted. 


12.—Crumb Pudding with Arrowroot Sauce. 
Put the bread into a cool oven until it is perfectly dry 


Ingredients. but not colored ; pound it to fine 
1 oz. of bread, without crust . . 
I 5, 5, loafsugar — dust ; mix the Sugar, milk, and 
¥Y ofa pint of new milk . . 
1 fresh egg egg (well beaten) with it; beat 
Ingredients of Sauce. for twenty minutes. Butter a 
1 saltspoonful of arrowroot . . . . 
1 teaspoonful of cold water basin, pour in the pudding, tie it 


¥% gill of boiling water ; : 
2 teaspoonsful of sifted sugar over and boil rapidly for half 


The yolk of a new-laid egg 
an-hour. Make a sauce as fol- 
lows :—Mix the arrowroot with the cold water, pour the 
boiling water on it, stir in the sugar; beat the yolk, addit 
to the sauce, and beat it over the fire for one minute after 
it is at boiling heat. 


13.—Sago. 


Put the sago and water into a saucepan and boil gently 


Ingredients. for one-and-a-quarter hours. Skim 


\% oz. of sago : . . 
% of a pint of cold water it when it comes to the boil, and 
1 dessertspoonful of sifted loaf 


sugar stir frequently. Sweeten with the 
sugar. If wine is ordered add two dessertspoonsful; if 
brandy one dessertspoonful. 


ITEMS FOR INVALIDS. 419 


14.—Tapioca Milk. 


Ingredients. Put the tapioca and milk into a 
¥% oz. of the best tapioca . 
1% pints of new milk saucepan ; simmer gently for two- 


x dessertspoonful of sifted sugar aa 
and-a-quarter hours, stirring fre- 


quently. Sweeten with the sugar. 


15.—Arrowroot. 
Mix the arrowroot with the cold water; add the boiling 


Ingredients, water ; put it into an enamelled 
2 teaspoonsful of the best arrow- . 
root saucepan and stir over the fire for 
¥% wineglassful of cold water . 
% pint of boiling water three minutes. , Add the sugar. 


3 teaspoonsful of sifted loaf sugar . . 
If wine or brandy are ordered, put 


in one wineglassful of white-wine, or a tablespoonful of 
brandy. 


16.—Arrowroot Milk. 


Ingredients. Mix the arrowroot with the cold 
2 teaspoonsful of arrowroot 


1 wineglassful of new cold milk milk: add the boiling milk: sti 
% pint of new boiling milk ? & > Stir 


x dessertspoonful of loaf sugar over the fire for three minutes ; 
add the sugar. 


17.—Isinglass and Eggs. 


Boil the isinglass and sugar in the water ; add the orange- 


Ingredients. flour water and the yolks (well 
¥% oz, of best isinglass . . 
3% pint of water beaten.) Boil up for one minute. 


x dessertspoonful of loaf sugar . tk 
3. drops of orange-flower water Strain through muslin into a small 


yolks of two fresh eggs 
mould, and serve when cold. 


18,—Isinglass Jelly. 
Put the isinglass in a delicately clean stewpan with the 


420 DAINTY DISHES FOR INDIAN TABLES. 


Ingredients of Isinglass Jelly. sugar and water ; stir this over the 
1 oz. of isinglass oa . . 

2 ;, sugar fire until it boils, and set it on 

% pint of water . . . 

A little white wine, or some one side to simmer for twenty ml- 

orange-juice 

nutes; add a few drops of cold 

water from time to time to facilitate throwing up the scum; 

remove this as it rises ; strain the jelly through a napkin into 

a basin; add the wine or orange-juice, pour the jelly into 


glasses, and stand it on ice or in a very cold place. 


-19.—Gruel. 
Mix the groats with the cold water; when quite smooth 
Ingredients. pour over the boiling water ; put 
1 dessertspoonful of Robinson’s . .. 
Patent Groats it in an enamelled saucepan and 
% wineglassful of cold water oe. gene . . . 
3% of a pint of boiling water Stir it till it boils ; let it boul ten 


minutes. Rum, brandy, wine, or 
sugar may be added according to taste. 


‘ 


20.—Barley Water. 


Put the barley with the cold water into an enamelled 


Ingredients. saucepan and boil for two-and-2 

1 oz. of pearl-barley . . 
Some sugar-candy crust half hours. Stir it occasionally 
Some strained lemon-juice (if . .. 
permitted) and skim frequently. Strain tt 


through muslin into a jug and sweeten to taste. 


21.—Barley Water. 


(Another way.) 
Wipe the barley very clean by rolling it in a cloth; put 
Ingredients. it into a quart jug with the other 


2 tablespoonsful of pearl-barley ingredients and fill up the jug 


2 lumps of sugar 


inch of salt . ys oe 

r Strip of thin lemon-peel with boiling water, keeping ! 
. f rice e ry 

3 quart of water gently stirred for some minute 


Cover it over and let it stand for twelve or fourteen hours 


ITEMS FOR INVALIDS. 42t 


A glass of calf’s-foot jelly melted may be added. The in- 
valid should be consulted before the lemon-peel is put in, 
as its flavour is unpalatable to some people, and orange- 
juice is often preferred. 


Note.—After the barley water has been poured off the jug may be 
filled up again with boiling water. 


22.—Rice Water. 


Wash the rice in several waters ; put it into a very clean - 


° Ingredients. saucepan (enamelled if you have 
2 oz, of rice . . : 
r quart of water it) with the water; boil for two- 


_and-a-half hours, stirring and skimming frequently. Strain 
it into a jug through a fine wire sieve; rub through the part 
that is glutinous and goes through without pressure. 


23-—Toast Water. 


Toast a piece of bread slowly before a clear fire until 
it is browned through but not the least burnt; put it into 
a jug and pour a quart of boiling f//ered water over it. 
Cover till cold. 


24.—White Wine Whey. 


Ingredients. 
¥% pint of new milk Boil the milk and sugar; pour 


1 dessertspoonful of sifted su- h drink h 
tweeplassful of sherry or 2 the sherry ; drink hot. 
Madeira 


25.—White Wine Whey with Eggs. 


Ingredients. Beat the eggs with the sugar, 


The yolks of two new-laid e : . . 
1 dessertspoonful of sifted ugar and stir them into the wine. 


int of boiling white wine . 
% of a pint of boing Drink hot. 


MENU. 


(For a Party of Four.) 


Celery Soup. 
Salmon fried with Tartar Sauce.* 
Chicken with Green Peas. 
Fillet of Beef, larded. 
Asparagus and Eggs. 
Vol-au-vent of Greengages. 
Coffee Cream Ice. 
Cheese Biscuits, Anchovy Butter. 


Dessert. 
eS eee 
MENU. 


(For a Party of Four.) 


Golden Quenelle Soup. 
Turbot with Cream Sauce.’ 
Stewed Patridges with Soubise Sauce. 
Leg of Mutton with Anchovy Sauce. 
Stuffed Tomatoes. 
Charlotte Russe. 
Delicate Trifles and Cheese, etc. 


Dessert. 


* Any fish in season is to be substituted for these, and whenever tinned fish 3 
mentioned, the fish of the locality, when it can be procured, is to be dressed in & 
same way. 


423 
MENU. 
(For a Party of Eight.) 


Partridge Soup. 
Soles fried in Oil. 
Aspic of Fillets of Chicken and Game. 
Lamb Cutlets with Cucumbers. 

Stewed Beef with Macaroni and Tomato Sauce. 
Teal with Christopher North’s Own Sauce. 
Spinach Puree with Cream. 

Grilled Mushrooms, 

Charlotte of Apples. 

Orange and Cream Jelly. 

Cream Cheese, Devilled Biscuits, Maitre @’hotel Butter. 


Dessert. 


MENU. 
(For a Party of Eight.) 


Italian Soup. 

Fish Cutlets with Indian Sauce. 
Small fricandeau of Veal. 
Mutton Cutlets with Portuguese Sauce. 
Fowls braised with Beefand Chestnuts. 
Snipe Pudding a l’Epicurean., 

Peas a la Francaise. 

Eggs and Mushrooms, 
Nesselrode Pudding. 
Oranges in Syrup, 
Cream Cheese, Oat Cakes, etc. 


Dessert. 


424 
MENU. 


(For a Party of Six.) 


Julien Soup. 
Fish with Cream Sauce. 
Sweetbreads with Green Peas. 
Pigeons a la Tartare. 
Saddle of Mutton with Haricot Beans. 
Pheasant with Truffles, 
Puree of Spinach with poached Eggs. 
Pancakes with Raspberry Cream. 
Noyeau Jelly. 
Epicurean Butter, Cheese Straws, Cheese, etc. 


Dessert. 


MENU. 


(For a Party of Six.) 


Almond Soup. 
Fillets of Fish with Caper Sauce. 
Mutton Cutlets, braised. 
Rabbit fried in butter. 
Pheasant braised, with Beef and Chestnuts. 

Cheese Fondu. 

Truffles al’ Italienne. 

Cream Cheese, Olives, etc., 


Dessert. 


425 
MENU. 


(Por a Party of Four.) 


Clear Soup with Poached Eggs. 
Fish, buttered. 

Chicken Legs in papillottes. 
Shoulder of Lamb stewed with Green Peas. 
Sardine Toast, 

Canapees. 

Iced Milanese Cream. 

Cheese, etc. 


Dessert. 


MENU. 


(For a party of Four.) 


Asparagus Soup. 
Vol-au-vent of Oysters. 
Sheep’s Kidneys stewed in Port Wine. 
Fowl, braised with Tomatoes, 

French Beans a la Francaise. 
Dresden Patties. 
Meringue of Pears. 

Cheese Straws, Parsley Butter, etc. 


Dessert. 


426 
MEN U. 
(For a Party of Six.) 


Macaroni Soup. : 
Mayonnaise of Fish. 

Chicken Croquettes with Green Peas. 
Lamb Cutlets with Milanese Sauce. 
Shoulder of Mutton boiled. 

Gateau de riz with Strawberry Cream. 
Artichokes, 

Curried Toasts with Anchovies. 
Buttered Cheese Biscuits, Cpeam Cheese, 
Dessert. 


——_——_+—-—_—_ 
MENU. 


(For a Party of Ten.) 


Ravinoli Squp. 
Fillets of Fish with Tartar Sauce. 
Timbale of Fowl and Macaroni, 
Braised Muttan Cutlets. 

Turkey with Chestnut stuffing. 
Brisket of Beef stewed with French Beans. 
Roast Partridges. 

Russian Salad. 

Celery with Brown Sauce. 
Macedoine of whole fruits in Jelly. 
Caramel Cream, iced. 

Cheese Truffles, Cheese Biscuits devilled. 


Dessert. 


427 
MENU. 


(For a Party of Eight.) 


Pea Soup. 

Fillets of Fish, with Milanese Sauce. 
Sweetbreads with Truffles. 
Mutton Cutlets with white Mushroom Sauce, 
Two Chickens for Eight persons. 
Asparagus Salad. 
Tomato Toast. 
Russian Pudding. 
Oranges filled with Jelly. 


Cheese, Herrings a la Sardine, etc. 


MENU. 


(For a Party of Ten.) 


Celery Soup. 

Fried Fillets of Fish with Tartar Sauce. 
Mutton Cutlets, braised. 
Vol-au-vent of Sweetbreads. 

Fillet of Beef, larded. 

Ducks braised with Green Peas. 
Russian Salad, Eggs and Mushrooms. 
Souffle Pudding, Meringues a la Vanille, iced. 
Pate de foie-gras, Devilled Biscuits, Cheese. 
Dessert, 


INDEX. 


LMOND cakes, 370. 


” cheesecake mixture, 
243. 
” paste for cakes, 365. 
” +» 9) sandwiches, 
240. 
90 and rice mould, 320, 
soup, 28. 


Almonds, to blanch and _ pound, 
65. 


»» burnt, or pralines, 306. 
»» Nougat of, 310. 
American drinks, (see Drinking 
Cups.) 
d’Anchois, roties, 221. 
Anchovies, 225. 
Anchovy butter, 16. 
93 toast, 221. 
» », with poached eggs, 
200. 


»», toasts, curried, 222. 

Apple cream, 285. 

», dumplings and rice, 283. 

» fritters, 253. 

», hedgehog, 312. 

” jam, 350. 

»» jelly, 350. 

1» ~999~S ss Ceam, 329. 

»» marmalade, 311. 
mould, 315. 
5» sauce, 14. 


»» show, with sponge cakes, 316. 


tart, 241 
Apples, buttered, 319. 
” charlotte of, 312. 
" méringue of, 313. 


Apples, stewed, 319. 
9 whiskey, (for dessert, ) 360. 
Apricot cream, 330. 
» 99 _~—«Ace, 398. 
99 jam, 348. 
» jelly, 349. 
” marmalade, 349. 
Apricots, bottled, 363. 
» glacés, 391. 
Arrowroot, 419. 
” biscuits, 382. 
» milk, 419. 
Artichokes, 174. 


” Jerusalem, 174. 
29 9 fried, 174. 
Asparagus, I71. 
” and eggs, 204. 
” salad, cold, 172. 
9 soup, 41. 
toast, 172. 


Aspic of fillets of chicken or game, 


127. 


9 jelly, 43- 
» »» savoury, 42. 


ACON and eggs, 200. 
” and marcaronl, 211. 
Baked flour, 2 
Barley broth and sheep’s head with 
mashed potatoes, 78. 

» sugar, 392. 

9 water, 420. 
Bath chap, 108. 
Batter, French, 252. 

» frying, 253. 

Beans, broad, a la Francaise, 173 


430 


INDEX 


Beans, broad, with parsley sauce, 
173. 


29 


French, a la Frangaise, 170. 
» fried, 170. 
” plain, 170. 
” stewed, 170. 
Haricot, 173. 


Bechamel sauce, 9. 


Beef, 


Beetroot, 


99 


93 


99 


brisket, stewed with French 
beans, 57. 


extract of, (for invalids, ) 415. 


fillet, larded, 58. 

ribs or sirloin, roast, 56. 
round, boiled, 56. 

rump steak, see page 444 
spiced and pressed, 58. 
steak, with anchovy butter, 


epicurean, 60. 
», ala Francaise, 60. 
», and oyster pie, 61. 
stewed, with macaroni and 
tomato sauce, 57. 
tea, 415. 
-,, in haste, 415. 
2nd dressing of :— 
with acid saucc, 65. 
cutlets in paper, 66. 
pie with potato us 


», With sauce appetissante, 
67. 


»> with savoury rice, 65. 

, vinagaret of, 67. 

baked, 185. 

boiled, 185. 

cold, with French sauce, 

185. 

and onions, with sauce 
piquante, 186. 

stewed, 185. 


Biscuit pudding, 303. 
Biscuits :— 


Arrowroot, 382. 
Brown bread, 382. 
Finger, 382. 

glacés, 383. 
Naples, 382. 


Biscuits :—( Continued. ) 
Plain dessert or wine, 381. 
Sweet, 381. 
Biscuits, cheese, 215. 
»> devilled, 225. 
” 29 dry, 226, 
- buttered, 226. 
Black onions for soup, 3. 
Blanc-manger, American, 335. 


9 currant, 336. 
2 - good, common, 3 
* quince 336. 
» rich, 335. 
rice, 336. 


Bloaters, Yarmouth, 225. 
Bottled apricots, 363. 

»» peaches, 363. 

»5 Strawberries, 362. 

Brains, calf’s, with brown sauce, Ic 

” »3 with white sauce, Ic 

» »» fried, 102. 

», sheep’s, with white sauce, ! 
Brandy, cherry, 413. 

” peaches in, 387. 


” calf’s head, ror. 
” mock, 112. 
» sauce, Oxford, 20. 
Bread :— 
an Indian recipe for, 38é 
brown, 385. 
stale, to freshen, 385. 
unfermented, 385. 
without yeast, 386. 
Bread, brown, pudding, 287. 
biscuits, 382. 
29 ” ice, 398. 
», and butter pastry, 239. 
pudding, plair 


99 BR 


 B ) 29 39 


89 9 pudding, rich, 
», and cheese pudding, 213. 

», crumbs, dried or prepared, 
», pudding, baked, 288. 

” » ’ with mar 


malade, 288, 


- INDEX, 


Bread, pudding plain, 287. - 
” » rich, 287. 
»3 pulled, 227. 
+» sauce, IO. 
Broad beans, 4 la Francaise, 173. 


», with parsley sauce, 173. 


Brocoli, 187. 
Broth, calf’s foot, 417. ° 
»» chicken, 416. © 
1» mutton, 38. 
» (for invalids, ) 416. 
Brown bread, 384. 
biscuits, 382. 
ice, 398. 
29 9 pudding, 287. 
»  soufflé, 249. 
Brussel sprouts, 187. 
»» French way, 187. 
Buns, plain, without butter, 379. 
», soda, 379. . 
Burnt sugar, for colouring, 3. 
Butter, anchovy, 16. 
” epicurean, 17. 
»» maitre d’hotel, 16. 
»» melted, 11. 
” », for vegetables, 11. 
»» sauce, 15. 


CABBAGE, 188. 


99 29 
99 99 


stewed, 188. 
stuffed, 189. 
Cabinet pudding, 262. 
» very rich, 263. 


Cakes — 

Almonds, 370. 
Banbury, 378. 
Chantilly, 372. 
Cream, 370. 
Genoa, 373. 
Guernsey, 373. 
Macaroon, 377. 
Madeira, 368. 
Oat, 380. 
Oswego, 369. 
Plum, 366. 

» rich, 364. 
Pound, 369. 
Queen’s, 377. 


431 


Cakes :—( Continued. ) 
Rice, 368. 
»» (another), 369. 
Savoy, 372. 
Seed, 369. 
Soda, 370. 
Spong, 367. 
Tea, 378. 
Cakes, almond paste for, 365. 
», almonds to blanch and 
pound for, 365. 

», chocolate icing for, 367. 

», Sugar icing for, 366. 

», tea or coffee, icing for, 368. 
Calf’s brains with brown sauce, 103. 
with white sauce, 103. 

» «369 fried, 102. 

5, feet with sharp sauce, 102. 

»» foot broth, 417. 

»» 99 Stock, 26, 

»» head, boiled, with white 

sauce, 100. 
head brawn, Io!. 
Calves’ feet jelly, 337. 
lemon, 338. 
orange, 338. 


99 3? 


99 99 99 


33 99 99 
Canapees, 220. 


” cheese, 215. 
Candy, cocoanut, 394. 
» ginger, 393. . 
» Orange flower, 393. 
»» sugar, 392. 
Caramel, 392. 
Carrot soup, 36. 
Carrots, 179. 
», with butter, 179. 
», ala Francaise, 179. 
»» purée of, 180. 
Casserole of rice, 219. 
ss 99 sweet, 298, 
Cauliflower, plain, 1 
» with Parmesan cheese, 
186. 
io stewed, 187. 
Celery sauce, 13. 
»» soup, 34. 
;, stewed with brown sauce, 
180, 


432 INDEX. 


Celery stewed with white sauce, 


180. 


. Chantilly basket with whipped 


cream and strawberries, 309. 
Charlotte pudding, 286. 
” of apples, 312. 
i a la Parisienne, 314. 
- Russe, 310. 
Chartreuse of vegetables, 193. 
Cheese biscuits, 215. 
and bread pudding, 213. 
»» boiled, 214. 
»»  canapees, 215. 
» cream, 230 and 231. 
»»  damson, 351. 
» guava, 352. 
_ ramakins, 214. 
soufflé or fondu, 212. 
», stewed, 213. 
95 Straws, 215. 
toast, 214. 
Cheesecake, 243. 
»» almond, 244. 
99 lemon, 243; 
» orange, 243. 
Cherries, compéte of, 362. 
brandied, 388. 
» glacés, 392. 
Cherry _ brandy, 413. 
sauce, 272. 
Chestnut pudding, 264, 
” ” baked, 265. 
” iced, 265, 
Chestnuts, 388. 
gla¢ és, 390. 
Chicken, aspic of fillets of, 127. 
broth, 416. 
with green peas, 122. 
legs en papillotes, 130. 
and onions, 120. 
ala Tartare, 126, 
sandwiches, 224. 


29 


Chickens, two for eight persons, 120. 


Chocolate, 401. 


° -bon-bons, 395. 
cream, 326, 


> 


99 . 


jam or marmalade, 313. 


a Spanish recipe for, 401. 


Chocolate, cream without crean 


. 327- 
” ” ice, 403. 
” custards, 232 and 318. 
- drops, 395. 
» icing for cakes, 399. 


Christopher North’s own sauce, 
Chutney, ne-plus-ultra, 18. 
sauce, 20. 
Clarified syrup of jellies, 339. 
” isinglass, 339. 
Compote of cherries, 362. 
” », peaches, &c., 361. 
» », strawberries, 362. 
Cocoanut candy, 394. 
” cream, 274. 
” pudding, 273. 
Coffee, 2, and 400. 
»» bon-bons, 395. 
1» cream, 326. 
9) cream ice, 399. 
»» icing for cakes, 368. 
souffié, 248. 
C onfectionery, (see Dessert Dish 
Convalescent soup, 417. 
Cornflour, Indian, pudding, 304 
Cream, apple, ( for puddings, ) 2 
», brandy, 2 
29 cake, 397. 
», cheese, 230 and 231. 
»» curds, 229. 
” » (wrthout rennet ), 2 
»» Devonshire, 228. 
» Ices, 398, 399. 
» ‘pastry, 244. 
»,  Yaspberry, (for pudding: 
276. 
»,  soufflé, 249. 
» sauce, 16, 
», strawberry, (for puddings 
276. 


Creams :— 
Apple, 329. 
Apricot, 330. 
Bavarian, 329. 
Caramel, 327. 
Celestine, 328. 
Chocolate, 326, 


INDEX. 


‘reams :—( Continued. ) 

Chocolate without cream, 
37: 

Cocoanut, 274. 
Coffee, 326. 
Currant jelly, 329. 
Fruit syrup, 326. 
Franchipane, 334. 
Ginger, 328. 
Italian, 328. 

’ Lemon, 33!. 
Milanese, 331. 
Millefruit, 333. 
Orange, 275. 

Peach, 330. 
Pineapple, 330. 
Quince, 329. 
Raspberry, 330. 
Ratafia, 327. 
Rhenish, 334. 
Stone, 333. 
Strawberry, 329. 
Swiss, 332. 
Vanilla, 326. 
Velvet, 332. 

réme, gertrude a la, 314. 

9 au thé, 333. 

»,  gateau a la, 307. 
roquettes of fowl, 135. 
» yy potato, 165. 
2 99 TICE, 323. 

99 99 finer, 324. 
rdustade of sweetbreads, mush- 
rooms and potato balls, 98. 
rumb pudding, 304.. 


‘ 


» (for invalids, ) 418. 


99 dried or prepared, 2. 
rust, cream, 237. 
»: French, for meat pies, 237. 
»» suet, common, 236. 
» », excellent, 236. 
» for tarts, 236. 
ucumber, §76. 
” stewed, brown, 177. 
5» white, 177. 
ups, ( See Drinking Cups.) 
uracao sauce, 263. 
urds, rennet, for making, 228. 


433 


Curds, cream, 229. 
» . 5, Without rennet, 230. 
»» and whey, 229. 
Curded milk, 228. 
Currant custard, 318. 
»y jelly cream, 329. 
” 2 red, 347. 
», juice blanc-manger, 330. 
», pudding, 278. 
Currants, to clean, 258. 
Curried eggs, 205. 
” fish, 51. 
» fowl, 128. 
” rabbit, 149. 
toasts with anchovies, 221. 
vegetables, 193. 
Curries :— 
Egg, 152. 
Fish, 151. 
Fowl, 152. 
Kid, 154. 
Kid and egg, 155. 
Meat, egg, and vegetable, 154. 
Mutton, egg and vegetable, 


; 155. 
sy 9, and pistachio 
Nut, 156. 
” and mangoe, 156. 


Partridge, 153. 
Rice, to boil for, 157. 
Curry powders, 22. 
»» fice, 4. 
Custard, 231. 
- currant, 318. 
” Duke’s, 318. 
” fritters, 255, 
” pudding, baked, 292. 
» pudding, boiled, 293. 
” ” Oswego, 293 
” Queen’s, 231. 
” savoury, 417. 
% with snow balls, 317. 
whip, 301. 
Custards, chocolate, 232 and 318, 


AMSON cheese, 351. 
rr) jelly, 352. 


Delicate trifles, 222. 


434 


Dessert dishes :— 
Almond toffee, 394. 
Apples, whiskey, 360. 
Apricots glacés, 391. 
Barley sugar, 392. 
Brandied cherries, 388. 
Burnt almonds, 396 
Caramel, 392. 
Cherries, glacés, 392. 
Chestnuts, 388. 


», — glagés, 390. 
Chocolate bon-bons, 395. 

” drops, 395. 
Cocoanut candy, 394. 
Coffee bon-bons, 395. 
Everton toffee, 394. 
Ginger candy, 393. 
Lemon rings, 389. 
Melon glacés, 391. 

»» preserved, 356. 

Orange rings, 389. 


Orange flower candy, 393. 


Peaches glacés, 391. 
” in brandy 387. 
reserved, 357. 
Pearled ruit, 388. 
Pears glacés, 391. 

», stewed, 361. 
Pineapple glacés, 390. 
Pistachio pralines, 396. 

” shamrocks, 389. 
Pumpkin ginger, 358. 
Strawberries glacés, 392. 


Salad of mixed fruits, 388. 


Devil mixture, 226. 

Devilled biscuits, 225 

buttered, 226. 
dry, 226. 


99 33 
29 9 


», salmon, sardines, &c., 226. 


Devonshire cream, 228. 

” junket, 229. 
Dresden Patties, 220. 
Drinking Cups :— 

Badminton Cup, 403. 
Beer Cup, 404. 
Bishop, 407. 

Brandy Smash, 409. 
Chablis Cup, 404. 


INDEX. 


Drinking Cups :—( Continued. ) 
Champagne Cup, 403. 
Ching-Ching, 409. 
Cherry Brandy, 413. 
Cider Cup. 404. 

Claret Cup, 403 
Cock Tail, 410. 
Froster, 409. 

Ginger Beer, 410. 
Gin Sling, 408. 
Institution Cup, 409. 
Knickerbocker, 409. 
‘Lemonade, 410. 

Lime juice, (40 preserve) 41 
Mango water, 412. 
Milk Lemonade, 411. 
Mint Julep, 410. 
Moselle Cup, 404. 
Mulled Claret, 407. 

3» Port, 407. 

» wine, 408. 
Negus, 408. 
Orangeade, 411. 
Pineapple jelly, 409. 

9 water, 411. 
Pomegranate water, 412. 
Punch, Cambridge milk, 40 

2? Hot, 407. 

» Milk, 405, 406. 

» Oxford, 404. 

»,  Regent’s, 405. 

» Turtle, 406. 

»» Pineapple, 406. 

Whisky, 407. 
Sauterne Cup, 403. 
Sherry Cobbler, 408. 
St. Charles, 409. 
Strawberry water, 4IT. 
vinegar, 412. 

Syllabub, 412. 

Dried Fruits (see Dessert Dishes. 

Ducks, braised, 133. 

», or ducklings, roast, 132. 
> wild, 144. 

Dumplings, apple and rice, 283. 
” apple, baked, 284. 
” apple and plum, 284. 
- currant, light, 283. 


INDEX. 


Dumplings, lemon, 283. 
Dutch sauce, 13. 


93 


flummery, 336. 


GGS and asparagus, 204. 


», bacon, 200. 
boiled, 199. 
a la bonne femme, 201. 
buttered, 200. 

” with truffles, 201. 
with cheese, 202. 
curried, 205. 
aux fins herbes, 203. 
grated, 202. 
au gratin, 203. 
and mushrooms, 204. 
with nut brown butter, 203. 
au plat, 200. 
in paper cases, 201. 
poached, 199. 

» with anchovy 

toast, 200. 

sandwiches, 223. 
4 la tripe, 202. 
turkey, forced, 205. 


Endive, stewed, 168. 
Entrées :— 


Aspic of fillets of chicken 
or game, 127. 

Beef, fillet, larded, 58. 
” steak, epicurean, 60 
- ” ry la Francaise, 60. 
», stewed with macaroni 

& tomato sauce, 57. 

», 2nd. dressings of :— 
», with acid sauce, 65. 
», cutlets in paper, 66. 
», With sauce appetissante, 


97- 
»» with savoury rice, 65. 
Calfs brains with brown 
sauce, 103 
with white sauce, 
103. 
+» 95 fried, 102. 
», feet with sharp sauce, 
102. 
Casserole of rice, 219. 


99 39 


435 


Entrées :—( Continued. ) 


Chicken fillets, aspic of, 


127. 
», with green peas, 
122. 
», legs, en papillot- 
tes, 130. 
Chickens, 2 for 8 persons, 
120. 


» ala Tartare, 126. 
Créustade of sweetbreads, 
mushrooms and potato 
balls, 98. 
Fowl. croquettes of, 130. 
»  fricasseed, 123, 124. 
»» minced with savoury 
rice, 129. 
», timbale of, with ma- 
caroni, 125. 
Game, salmi of, 143. 
Hare, jugged, 146. 
Lamb, chops, 70. 
» cutlets, 71. 
” »» with cucum- 
bers, 70. 
»,  pelau, 71. 
»»  sweetbreads, roast- 
ed with green 


peas, 73. 
Mutton cutlets, braised, 85. 
> », bread crumb- 
ed, 83. 


” »» with Portu- 
guese sauce, 84. 
” » with white 
mushroom sauce, 84. 

» fillets of, 85. 
Mutton, 2d dressings of :— 
», cutlets, minced with 
tomato sauce, 89. 
», cutlets, pounded, with 
Tartar sauce, 88. 


»» hashed, venison 
fashion, 87. 

»» minced, with ma- 
caroni, 89. 


with mushrooms, 90 
Ox. “palates, Stewed, 62. 


436 INDEX. 


Entrées :—( Continued. ) 
Ox-tail, broiled, 63. 
Partridges, braised, 140. 
» with 
cabbages, 140. 
” stewed with ce- 
lery, and soubise 
sauce, 141. 
Patties, Dresden, 220. 
»» veal, 99. 
Pheasant, pulled, 139. 
»,  salmi of, 139. 
Pigeons, boiled, 135. 
” roas!, 134. 
” stewed, 135. 
»» ala Tartare, 135. 
Rabbit, brown fricassee of, 


148. 
»» fried in butter, 149. 

»» ala Tartare, 148. 
Rump steak with fried po- 
tatoes, 59. 
” » stewed with 
oysters, 60. 
Sausages and chestnuts, 


113. 

Sheep’s brains with white 
sauce, 81. 

” kidneys stewed in 


port wine, 82. 
Sweetbreads, Créustade of, 


98. 
” with green 
peas, 73. 
” veal, with 
truffles, 97. 
Timbale of macaroni with 


fowl, 125. 
Entremets, Savoury :— 
Anchovy toast, 221. 
” »» with poach- 
ed eggs, 200. 


»» curried, 222. 


Asparagus and eggs, 204. 
salad, cold, 172. 
” toast, 172. 
Beans, French, 4 la Fran- 
gaise, 170. 


29 


Exntremets :—( Continued. ) 


Brussels sprouts, F 
way, 187. 
Canapees, 220. 
Celery stewed with | 
sauce, 180. 
99 99 with 
sauce, 180. 
Cheese and bread pud 


213 
y» boiled, 214. 


” ramakins, 214 
» souffié or f 
212 

stewed, 213. 


Delicate trifles, 222. 
Eggs and asparagus, ‘ 
»» with cheese, 202 
»» and mushrooms, 
9» 1M paper cases, 2 
»» with anchovy tc 

200. 

turkey’s, forced, 
Macaroni, savoury, 21 
” w 

cheese, 210. 
Macedoine of vegetat 


194. 
Mushrooms, baked, 1° 
” fried, 175 
grilled, 1; 
” toast, 176 
Oysters, scolloped, 53. 
” vol-au-vent of 
Onions and beet-root v 
sauce piquante, 186. 
Peas a la créme, 169. 
Portugal onions, stuf 


184. 
Rice, Florentine fashio 
247. 
»3 Piedmontese fashi 
217 


»» Polish fashion, 21 
Rizzoletti, 218. 
Réties d’anchois, 221. 
Russian salad, 197, 
Salsifis, fried, 181. 


INDEX. 


Entremets:—( Continued, ) 
Sardine toast, 222. 
Scotch woodcock, 206. 
Sea kale, 172. 
Spinach and _ poached, 
eggs, 167. 

5, purée with cream, 167. 
Toast, kidney, 222. 

” tomato, I9I. 
Toasts, savoury, 221. 
Tomatoes a la Provengale, 


190. 
” stuffed, 190. 
Truffles a Il’ Italienne, 192. 
” a la Piedmontaise, 
192. 


- a la Serviette, 191. 
Turkey’s eggs, forced, 205. 
Turnips glacés with sugar, 

I 


Vegetable marrow, stuffed, 

, 182, 
Welch Rabbit, 213. 

Epicurean butter, 17. 


IG pudding, 261. 
ish, 44. 
y> curried, 51. 
»,  scolloped, 49 
», sauce for cold, 19, 20. 
sandwiches, 224. 
Flavourings, 23. 
Flour, baked, 2. 
Flummery, Dutch, 336. 
Fondu, cheese, 212. 
Forcemeat of veal, 4. 
Fowl, boiled, 119. 
»y braised with tomatoes, 119. 
with braised beef and 
chestnuts, 121. 
», croquettes of, 130, 
»» curried, 128. 
»» Gevilled, 127. 
», fricasseed, white, 123. 
» ” in oil, 124. 
», Guinea, larded, 137. 
9, mayonnaise of, 122. 


+» minced with savoury rice, 129. 


437 


Fowl pie, 123. 
», pulled, 131 
»»  quenelles of, 126. 
»»  voast, with gravy and bread 
sauce, 118. 
»» with savoury macaroni, 125. 
,,  timbale of, with macaroni, 
125. 
Freezing, directions for, 397. 
French beans 4 la Francaise, 170. 
fried, 170. 
- ” plain, 170. 
” 5» stewed, 170. 
Fritters, apple, 253. 
», cake and pudding, 255. 
», custard, 255. 
>;  lémon, "286, 
»» peach, 254. 
», plain, 253. 
»» potato, 256. 
1» Orange, 254. 
rice, 254. 
Fruit salad, 388. 
yy syrup cream, 326. 
», vol-au-vent, 316. 
Fruits, dried, for ‘dessert, 387. 


ALETTE, a French, 37!. 

ame, 137. 

»»  aspic of fillets, 127. 

»» sandwiches with Tartar 
sauce, 224. 


99 99 


Garlic, 2 
Gateau a4 la créme, 307. 
»,  deriz, 297 and 208. 
German sauce, 16, 172. 
» (for ‘puddings, ) 262. 

Giblets, stewed, 135. 

” soup, 41. 
Ginger beer, 410, 
Gingerbread, good common, 375. 


” nuts, 381. 
” rich, 374. 
- thick light, 374. 
Ginger cream, 328. 
9 ” ice, 398. 


», pudding, 268. 
»»5 pumpkin, 358. 


438 


Glaze, 26. 
Goose, roast, 131. 
with tomatoes and 
chestnuts, 132 
Gooseberries, méringue of, 313. 
Gooseberry fool, 324. 
” jam, 347. 


99 99 


” sauce, 132. 
Greengage mould, 315, 
99 jam, 348. 


Green sauce, 14. 

Grilled kippered salmon, 225. 
Gruel, 420. 

Guava cheese, 352. 


»» jelly, 352. 
Guinea fowl, larded and roasted, 137. 


ADDOCKS, dried, 225. 
am, baked, 110. 
1» boiled, 109. 
” », French way, 109, 
and 110, 

Hare, braised, 146. 

»»  jugged, 146. 

»» roast, 145. 
Ilaricot beans, 173. 
Herb seasoning, Francatelli’s, 24. 
Horse-radish sauce, 13. 


Ilotch potch, 35. 
[c* — 


Apricot cream, 398. 
Brown bread, 398. 
Chocolate cream, 399. 
Coffee cream, 399. 
Ginger cream, 398. 
Pineapple cream, 398. 
Strawberry cream, 399. 
” water, 397. 
Icing, tea or coffee, 368 
», chocolate, 367. 
+» sugar, 366. 
Irish stew, 79. 
Italian soup, 35. 
»>  sweetmeat, 306. 
Items for Invalids :— 
Arrowroot, 419. 


INDEX. 


Items for Invalids :—f( Contin 
Arrowroot milk, 419. 
Barley water, 420. 
Beef, extract of, 415. 

>, tea, 415. 

»» sy in haste, 415. 
Calf’s foot broth, 417. 
Chicken broth, 416. 
Convalescent soup, 417. 
Crumb pudding, 418. 
Custard, savoury, 417. 
Gruel, 420. 

Isinglass and eggs, 419. 
ss _ jelly, 419. 
Mutton broth, 416. 
>> tea, 416. 
- Oswego pudding, 418. 
Rice water, 421. 
Sago, 418. 
Tapioca milk, 419. 
Toast water, 421. 
Veal, extract of, 415. 
White wine whey, 421. 

29 9 »» with. 

Isinglass, to clarify, 339. 

» and eggs, 419. 
” jelly, 419. 


AM Charlotte, 313. 
», pudding, 278. 
» ” boiled, 279. 
15 rolls, baked, 279. 
Jams :— 
Apple, 350. 
Apricot, 348. 
Gooseberry, 347. 
Nectarine, 349. 
Greengage, 348. 
Peach, 349. 
Raspberry, 346. 
Rhubarb, 346. 
Strawberry, 345. 
Jaune-manger, 336. 
Jellies :-— 
Apple, 350. 
Apricot, 349. 
Aspic, 43. 


INDEX. 


Jellies :-—( Contenued, ) 

Aspic, savoury, 42. 

Calves’ feet, 337- 
lemon, 338. 

» », orange, 338. 

Damson, 352. 
Gooseberry, Cape, 347. 
Grape, 342. 
Guava, 352. 
Isinglass, (for t#valids, ) 419. 
Macedoine of whole fruits j in, 


343- 


99 99 


Maraschino, 342. 
Mixed fruit, 353. 
Noyeau, 342. 
Orange and cream, 343. 
Orange, 339. 
» (to keep, ) 355. 
Peach, 349. 
Pineapple, 341.” 
Punch, 341. 
Plum, 349. 
Qtince, 351. 
Raspberry, 340. 
Red currant, 347. 
Red plum, 352. 
Rhubarb, 340. 
Stockmeat, 27. 
Strawberry, 340. 
1 (to Rep, ) 3A5- 
Jugged hare, 146. 
Junket, Devonshire, 229. 


ABOBES and Kedcheree, 
104. 
Kanapees, 220. 
Kale cannon, 166. 
Kedcheree, 219. 
Ketchup, mushroom, 18. 
»» | Sauce, 15. 
Kidneys, ox, grilled, 63. 
» », stewed, 63. 
»»  Sheep’s broiled, 81. 
99 93 
82. 
” on toast, 222, 
- omelet, 208. 
Kitchen utensils, 7, 


stewed in port wine, 
Macaroni 


439 


AMB chops, 70. 
” cutlets, 71. 
»» with cucumbers, 


99 


” forequarter, 68. 


- haunch, 69. 

” head, 73. 

” leg, boiled, 69. 
» », roast, 69. 
” pelau, 71. 


- ribs or target, 68. 

- saddle, 69. 

” shoulder, 69. 

” stewed with peas, 72. 

sweetbreads roasted 
with green peas, 73. 


Leeks, boiled, 184. 


»» stewed, 148. 


Lemonade, 410. 


” milk, 410. 


Lemon calves’ feet jelly, 338. 


» «= cream. 331. 

59 juice, 23. 

»» cheese cakes, 243. 

>, fritters, 256. 

»» rings, 389 

yy Marmalade, 353. 

»» sandwiches, 240. 

yy sauce, 277. 

99 sponge, 331. 

»» suet pudding, 267. 

tartlets, common, 244. 

Lettuces, stewed, 168. 
Leveret, braised, 146. 


; Lime juice, (to preserve, ) 414. 


Ling pie, 50. 
Liqueurs, (see Drinking Cups.) 
Liver and bacon, 8o. 
Lobster salad, 196. 
» sauce, 48. 


ACARONI with bacon, 211. 
” » bread- 
crumbs, 211. 
Portuguese, 323. 
” pudding, 299. 
” ” savoury, 211. 
” i lareine, 211. 


44) 


Macaroni, savoury, 210, 
with cheese, 


39 99 


210, 
” soup, 30. 
” sweet, 322. 
” timbale of, with fowl, 
125. | 


Macaroon cakes, 377. 
Macaroons, almond, 377. 

orange flower, 377. 
Macedoine of whole fruits in jelly, 


343: 
of vegetables, 194. 
Mahaseer, bowed 55. 
” d, 55. 
sauce for, 55. 
Maitre dhotel butter, 16. 
” - sauce, II. 
Maraschino syrup, 282. 
jelly 342. 
Marmalade, apple, ZIT. 
” apricot, 349. 


” charlotte, 313. 
” lemon, 353. 
” nectarine, 349. 


9 orange, 353: 
clear, 354. 
9 5, fine, 355. 
F) peach, 349. 
2 pineapple, 355. 
” pudding, 270. 
9 quince, 350. 
Scotch, 354. 
Marrow pudding, 275. 
Mayonnaise of fowl, 122. 
99 99 salmon, 47. 
sauce, 12. 
Melon, glacés, 391. 
»» preserved, 356. 
Melted butter, 11. 
», for vegetables, 11. 
Menus, 422 to 427. 
Méringue of apples, 313. 
9 9, pears, 313. 
- », rhubarb, 313. 
” »» tart, 240, 
Méringues, 316. 
Mince-meat, 241. 


329 39 


INDEX. 


Mince-meat, pudding, 269. 
Mince pies, 242. 
»» with egg icing, 24 
Milk, curded, 228. 
” lemonade, 4Il. 
»» punch, 405 and 406. 
Mint sauce, 68. 
Mock turtle soup, 31. 
Mould, almond and rice, 320. 
9 apple, 315. 
9 greengage, 315. 
” lemon rice, 320. 
” rhubarb, 315. 
Moulds, 2. 
Mulled claret, 407. 
” port, 407. 
» wine, a French rec 
408. 
Mulligatawny soup, 32. 
Mushroom ketchup, 18. 


” toast, 176. 
Mushrooms baked, 174 gnd 1) 
” and eggs, 204. 

9 fried, 175. 
” grilled, 175. 


stewed, 175. 
Mutton chops, plain, 8 3. 

» cutlets, braised, 85. 
bread crumbe: 
with Portugue> 

sauce, $4. 

» White on 
room sauce, $4. 
- broth, 38. 

” ( for invalids, ) 
- fillets, 85. 

” leg, boiled, 75. 
roast, 75. 

with anchovy § 


99 99 


9 29 


9 99 


33 99 
9 29 
” loin, roasted, 77. : 
- », stuffed, 77. 

» saddle of, 75 


» shoulder, boiled, 77. 
” ” roast, 77- 
” steak and fried potatoe 


» tea (for tnvalass, ) 41 
” 2nd dressings of :— 


INDEX. 


Mutton cutlets, minced, with toma- ! 


to sauce, 89. 


bed 2? 


sauce, 88. 
» fillet, 88. 
” hashed, venison fashion, 87. 
> minced, with macaroni, 89. 
” with mushrooms, go. 


saddle, a la Polonnaise, 87. 


NECTARINE jam, 349. 

” marmalade, 349. 
Nectarines preserved, 358. 
Nesselrode pudding, 307. 

Nougat of almonds, 310. 
» - Parisian, 311. 


AT CAKES, 380. 


melets, with cheese, 208. 


” common, 207. 

” good, 207. 

»> @ ham, tongue or hung 
beef, 208. 


” kidney, 208. 
» « light, 208 
” oyster, 209. 
» savoury, 208. 
» souffié, 247 
” sweet, 246. 
” 13 potato, 246. 
with preserve, 246. 
Once ‘a week (rice mould,) 321. 
Onion sauce, 10. 
»» soup, brown, 37. 
» white, 36. 
Onions, black, for soup, 3. 
” and beetroot with sauce 
piquante, 186. 
> Portugal, boiled, 183. 
fried, 183. 
roasted, 183. 
stewed, 183, 
stuffed, 184 
Orangeade, 4t 1. 
Orange calves’ feet jelly, 338. 
», and cream jelly, 343. 
» fritters, 254. 
», flower candy, 393. 


pounded with Tartar 


441 


Orange flower macaroons, 377 


», jelly, fine, 339 and 355: 
>» marmalade, 353. 


” ” clear, 354. 

» rings, 380. 

salad, 359. 

Oranges filled with jelly, 342. 

3» I syrup, 359. 
Oswego cake, 369. 

», custard pudding, 293. 

»» hasty, 418. 

Ox- “kidney, grilled, 63. 

» stewed, 63. 
Oxford brawn sauce, 20. 
Ox-palates, stewed, 62. 
Ox-tail broiled, 63. 

Oyster patties, 54. 
sy omelet 209. 
»» Sauce, 14. 
»» SOUP, 30. 
vol-au-vent, 53. 
Oysters, §2. 
», fried, 53. 
» scolloped, 53: 


PALESTINE soup, 36. 
ancakes, 251. 

” French, 251. 

xy ‘Vice, 252. 

»  Yrich, 252. 
Parsley sauce, 17. 
Parsnips, boiled, 181. 

- fried in batter, 181. 
5, plain, 182. 

Partridge, braised, 140. 


” . with cabbages, ,140. 
. roast, 139, 

. SOUP, 33+ 

” stewed withcelery or sou- 


bise sauce, 141. 
with tomato sauce, 141. 

Paste, very good, light, 235. 
Pastry, 233. 

5, oralmond paste sandwiches, 

240. 

», bread and butter, 239. 

»» cream, 244. 

», Stale, to freshen, 385. 


442 INDEX. 


Patties, Dresden, 220. Pigeons, roast, 134. 
” veal, 99. 9 stewed, 135. 
Pea soup, 37- 99 ala Tartare, 135: 
» green, 29. Pineapple cream, 330. 
Peach cream, 330. i glacé, 390. 
» fritters, 254. i an ice, 
39 jam, 349- x9 jelly, 340. 
»» jelly, 349. , 9 jelly cup, 409. 
” marmalade, 349. ” marmalade, 355. 
Peaches, in brandy, 387. ” preserved, 356. 

” bottled, 363. - punch, 406. 

» compote of, 361. water, 411. 

» glacés, 391. | Pippins, stewed, 361. 

” preserved whole, 357. | Pistachio pralines, 396. 
Pearled fruit, 388. - shamrocks, 339. 
Pears glacés, 391. Plaits, 240. 

»»  mMeéringue of, 313. Plum jelly, red, 352. 
sy stewed, 319. Poached eggs with anchovy 
” " (for dessert, ) 361. 200 
Peas green, ala Francaise, 169. Pork cutlets, with mushroom s 
»> oy  alacréme, 169, 107 
»» 9 plain, 169, »» fillets, with apple sauce, 
» 99 purée of, for garnish, », loin, French fashion, 10 
171, » 99 Toast, 106. 
Pelaus :— Potato croquetts, 165. 
Pelau, lamb, 71. »» fritters, 256. 
Fish, 158. », flour souffld, 248. 
Fowl and Egg, 159, »» hash, 166. 
Meat and Egg, 159. »» omelet, 246. 
», and Plantain, 160, | a9 pudding, 279. 
Pheasant, cold, with Balbirnie = ,, puffs, 281. 
sauce, 139. ' 4, salad, 166. 
.» boiled, with celery sauce, +» soup, 33. 
138. snow, 165. 
»» braised, with beef and Potatoes, baked, 164. 
chestnuts, 138. I ogy boiled, 162. 

»» pulled, 139. | - fried, 163. 

” roast, 137. ” a P Italienne, 164. 

»,  salmi of, 139. | oy mashed, 163. 

»» sauce for cold, 15. ” a la maitre hotel, | 

with truffles, 138. . » new, 162, 
Pickled walnuts, 18. ” »» in butter, 16}. 
Pig, sucking, roast, 108. ” »5 alacreme, 165 


” ” », with chestnuts, | », ala Provencale, 
109. | Potted veal and tongue, 105. 
Pigeons, boiled, 135. Poultry, 114. 
»» broiled, 135. | Preserved melons, 356. 
»» Pie, 135. - nectarines, 35S. 


= 


INDEX. 443 


Puddings :—( Continued. ) 


served peaches, whole, 357. 
In haste, 282. 


” pineapple, 356. 


»> quinces, 359. Jam, 278. 
»» vegetables, 5. x» boiled, 279. 
serves, 344. Jersey, 277. 


nes, stewed, 361. Lemon, 267. 


dings :— 


Almond and potato, 280. 
Apple, 285. 

:, baked, 286. 
Baked jam roll, 279. 
Bakewell, 277. 

Batter, baked, 290. 

»» common, 290. 

»» Derbyshire, 290. 

» fruit, 291. 
Biscuit, 303. 

Bread, baked, 288. 

», brown, 287. 

», and cheese, 213. 

», with marmalade, 

288. 

», plain, 287. 

» ‘ich, 287. 

» and butter, plain, 

. 289. 

99 93 9 rich, 289. 
Cabinet,. 262. 

9» «avery rich, 263. 
Charlotte, 286. 
Chestnut, 264. 

- baked, 265. 

- iced, 265. 
Clarence, 273. 
Cocoanut, 273. 

College, 276. 
Cornflour, Indian, 304. 
Crumb, 304. 


» (for invalids ) 418. 


Cup, 283. 
Currant, 278. 
Custard, baked, 292. 


” » finer, 292. 


” boiled, 293. 
Diplomatic, 270. 
Fig, 261. 
Gateau de riz, 297 & 2098. 
Ginger, 2 


» suet, 267. 
Macaroni, 299. 

» savoury, 211, 
Marmalade, 270. 
Marrow, 275. 

Mincemeat, 269. 
Nesselrode, 307. 
Oatmeal, 304. 
Oswego custard, 293. 
(for invalids ) 418. 
Paradise, 285. 
Parisian, 271. 
Pineapple, 263. 
Plum, a Christmas, 258. 
»»  anexcellent, 259. 
Plum, small, 260. 
” vegetable, 261. 
Potato, 279. 
» and almond, 280. 
” a rich, 281. 
for a Prince, 272. 
Prince Albert, No. 1, 268. 
No. 2, 275. 
Publisher’ S, 266. 
Raisin, 271. 
Rice, baked, 294. 
” - without eggs, 295. 
»» boiled, good, 294. 
” ” with raisins, 
294. 
5, plain, 293. 
»» ground, 295. 
3 9 cup, 296. 
re) 39 plain, 296. 
2»  meéringue, 295. 
», ‘ich, 295. 
savoury, 216, 
Rump steak and oyster, 62. 
Rusk, 303. 
Russian, 306, 
Sago, 303. 
Semolina, 300 & 301. 


444 


Puddings :—( Continued. ) 
Semolina, French, 301. 
Soojee, 302. 
»» another, 302. 
Sponge cake, 274. 
Souffle, 250. 
to steam in a common 
saucepan, 258. 
Tapioca, baked, 299. 
» boiled, 300 
Vermicelli, 302. 
Yorkshire, 291. 
” family, 292. 
Young wife’s, 269. 
Zandima, 276. 
Puff paste, English, 235. 
French, 233. 
¥ Patties, 238. 
Puffs, hasty, 281, 
German, 282. 
Polish, 239. 
»» potato 281. 
Pulled bread, 227, 
Pumpkin ginger, 358. 
Punch, (sce Drinking Cups.) 
»» jelly, 341 


UAIL, roast, rar. 

uenelle forcemeat of veal, 4. 
Quince juice blanc-manger, 336. 
jelly, 351. 
jelly cream, 329. 
marmalade, 350. 


ABBIT, boiled, 147. 

brown fricasse of, 
148. 

curry, 149. 

fried in batter, 

pudding, 150. 

ala Tartare, 148. 

Welsh, 213. 

Raisin pudding , 271. 

Raspberry cream, 330. 


(for 


” jelly, 340. 
Rataha cream, 327. 


39 3? 


29 
39 


99 
29 


a> 


149. 


3? 9 


puddiuss, ) 
276. 


INDEX. 


Raviuoli Soup, 38. 
Rennet (for making curds, ) 228. 
” jam, 
Rhubarb, jelly, 340. 
méringue of, 313. 
” mould, 315. 
Rice and almond mould, 320. 
apple dumplings, 283. 
blanc-manger, 336. 
cake, 368. 
casserole of, 219. 
oe] a3 o» sweet, 298. 
», cCroquettes, 323. 
99 9 finer, 324. 
for curry, 4. 
Florentine fashion, 217. 
», flour soufflé, 247. 
», fritters, 254. 
gateau, 297 and 298. 
and haddock, 216. 
kedgeree, 219. 
5, lemon mould, 320. 
pancakes, 252. 
Piedmontese fashion, 217. 
Polish fashion, 217. 
shape of, 321. 
shape of ground, 321. 
», savoury, 66 and 216. 
” ” udding, 216. 
Spanish fashion, 218. 
», sweet, 322. 
Rizzofetti, 218. 
| water, (for ¢nvalis, ) 421. 
Rosengriitze, 316. 
Roties d’anchois, 221. 
Rump steak, broiled, 59. 
| with fried potatoes, 59. 
kidney and oyster pud: 
ding, 62. 
ple, 61. 
stewed with oysters. 


99 


29 te) 


Rusk pudding, 303. 
Rusks, sweet, 371. 


Russian pudding, 306. 
| 


1 


AGO pudding, 303. 
(for invalias, ) 408. 


lads 


INDEX. 


195. 


Asparagus, cold, 172. 
Cold meat, 197. 
Flemish, 196. 
French, 195. 

Fruit, 388. 

English, 195 and 196, 
Lobster, 196. 

Orange (for Dessert, ) 359. 
Potato, 166. - 
Russian, 197. 
Tomato, 196. 
Vegetable, hot, 197. 


imi of snipe or other game, 143. 


bd 29 


wild fowl, 144. 


imon, boiled, 44. 


39 


99 


29 


” 
sifis, 


cutlets with Milanese sauce, 


9? 
fried, with Tartar sauce, 


46. 
kippered, grilled, 225. 
mayonnaise, 47. 
2nd dressing of, 44. 
181. 
fried, 181. 


idwiches, chicken or game, 223. 


dine 


egg and cress, 223. 

fish, 224. 

game and Tartar sauce, 
224. 

lemon, 240. 

minced, 224. 

pastry or almond paste, 
240. 

toast, 222. 


dines, 225, 
ces, for Fish, Meats and Vege- 
tables :— 


Anchovy butter, 16. 
Appetissante, 15. 
Apple, 14. 
Bechamel, 9 
Brawn, Oxford, 20. 
Bread, Io. 

Butter, 15. 

Caper, 76. 

Celery, 13. 


45- 
», Indian sauce, 46. 


Sauces :—( Continued, ) 


Christopher North’s, 20. 


Chutney, 20. 
for cold pheasant, 15. 
Cream, 16. 
Dutch, 13. 
Epicurean butter, 17. 
German, 16 and 172. 
Green, 18, 
Gooseberry, 132. 
Horse-radish, 13. 
Indian, 46. 
Lobster, 48. 
Ketchup, 15. 
Mahaseer, for cold, 55. 
Maitre d’hotel, 11. 
Mayonnaise, 12. 
Melted butter, Ir. 
Milanese, 45. 
Mint, 68. 
Onion, 10. 
Oxford brawn, 20. 
Oyster, 14. 
Parsley, 17. 
Shrimp, 44 
Soubise, 10. 
Spinach, 70. 
Tapp, 17. 
Tartar, 12. 
Tomato, 17. 

» (to keep, ) 19. 
White, 9. 


fish, 19 and 20. 


, 


445 


butter, 16. 


Sauces, for Puddings and Sweet 


Dishes :— 
Apple cream, 285. 
Brandy, 259. 

»» cream, 280. 
Curagoa, 263. 
Cherry, 272. 
Cocoanut cream, 274. 
Custard whip, 301. 
German, 262. 
Lemon, 277. 


Maraschino syrup, 282. 


Orange cream, 275. 
Pineapple, 264. 


446 


Sauces :—(Continued). 
Punch, 260. 
Raspberry, 276. 
Sweet, 260, 278. 
Strawberry, 250. 
Very rich, 259. 
Victoria, 265. 
Vanilla, 223. 
Wine, 261. 


Sausages and chestnuts, 113. 


Scones, soda, 380. 


INDEX. 


Souffle pudding, 250, 


29 


rice flour, 247. 


Soups :—2. 


Scotch short bread, 375 and 376. 


»» woodcock, 206. 
Sea-kale, 172. 
Semolina pudding, 298. 


” French, 300. 


5, kidneys, broiled, 81. 


39 99 


»» head, 80. 


99 39 


stewed = in 
wine, 82. 


port 


with barley broth and 


mashed potatoes, 78. 
», liver and bacon, 80 & 81. 


Shortbread, 375. 


- excellent Scotch, 376. 


Shrimp Sauce, 44. 
Snipe and woodcock, 142. 


»» pudding al’ epicurien, 142. 


5, potted, 143. 
», salmi, I 


Snow balls, with custard, 317. 


Soda cake, 370. 
», buns, 379. 
»» scones, 380. 
Soles, buttered, 51. 
»» fillets of, 51. 
», fried in oil, 50. 
Sorrel, 168. 
+» stewed, 168. 
Soubise sauce, 10. 
Soufflé, brown bread, 249. 
” cheese, 212. 
” coffee, 248. 
oy cream, 249. 
” fruit, 249. 
” omelet, 247. 
- potato flour, 248. 


Sheep’ s brains with white sauce, 81. 


| 
| 
| 


Almond, 28. 
Asparagus, 4I. 
Carrot, 36. 
Celery, 34. 
Convalescent (for /nvalads, 
417. 
Economical, Nos. 1 & 2, 4¢ 
Giblet, 41. 
Gravy, clear, 27. 
»» thick, 28. 
Green Pea, 29. 
Hotch-potch, Scotch, 35. 
Italian, 35. 
Julien, 28. 
Macaroni, 30. 
Mock turtle, 31. 
Mulligatawney, 32. 
pea-fowl, | 
Mutton broth, 38. 
Onion, brown » 37. 
»» White, 36. 
Oyster, 30. 
Palestine, 36. ~ 
Partridge, 33 
Pea, 37- 
Pea-fowl, 32. 
Potato, 33- 
Quenelle, golden, 40. 
Raviuoli, 38. 
Scotch hotch-potch, 35. 
Veal and rice, 34. 
Vermicelli, 31. 


Spiced and pressed beef, 58. 


Spinach, greening, for sauces, }. 


9 
39 


= plain, 167. 
and poached eggs, 167. 
purée, 167. 
»» with cream, 167, 
sauce, 70. 


Soojee pudding, 302. 
Sponge cake pudding, 274. 


», with apple snow, 3! 


Stewed apples, 319. 


9? 
99 


peaches, 319. 
pears, 360. 


INDEX. 


Stewed pippins, 361. 
5» prunes, 361. 
Stock for soup, Nos. 1 and 2, 25. 
calf’s foot, 26. 
fat, 26. 
meat, 26. 
jelly, 27. 
»» economical, 27. 
Stores, list of, 1 and. 
Strawberry cream, 329. 

»» «Ice, 399. 
sauce, 250. 
jelly, 340 and 345. 
jam, 345. 
vinegar, 412. 
water, 411. 

” ice, 397: 
Strawberries, bottled, 362. 
compote of, 362. 
glacés, 392. 

Sucking pig, roast, 108. 
sy ogg~SC With chestnuts, 109. 
Suet crust, common, for pies, 236. 
» 9  exccllent, 236. 
Sugar, barley, 392. 
burnt, for soups, 3. 
candy, 392. 

»» vanilla, 2 

Sweetbreads, lamb, roasted, with 

green peas, 73. 

” veal, will truffles, 97. 

croustade of, with mushrooms, 
and potato balls, 98. 

Sweet dishes, 306. 

y: Sauce, 260 and 278. 

Sweetmeat, Italian, 360. 

Syrup, to clarify, 339. 

»» .4Maraschino, 282. 

Syrups, (see Drinking Cups. ) 


APIOCA, Portuguese, 323. 
- pudding, baked, 299. 

Tapioca, pudding, boiled, 300. 

” milk, 419, 
Tapp sauce, 17. 
Tart apple, 241. 

», Meringue, 240. 

Tartar sauce, 12. 


99 
3 
39 


99 


99 


99 


23 


2? 
99 


33 


447 


Tartlets, jelly, or custard, 245. 
” lemon, common, 244. 
” strawberry, 245 

Tea, 2, and 4or. 

cakes, 378. 

cream, (créme au the,) 333. 

icing for cakes, 368. 

Russian, 401. 

Teal and widgeon, 144. 

Timbale of macaroni,, with fowl, 

125. 


99 
99 


39 


29 


39 


Toast, anchovy, 221. 
tomato, IQI. 
Everton, 394. 
Tomatoes a la Provengale, 190. 
Trifle or tipsy cake, 308. 
Turbot, 48. 
» boned with tongue and 


| Tipsy cake, 309. 
» »» ortrifle, 308. 
asparagus, 172. 
| 4, kidney, 222. 
»» mushroom, 176. 
»» sardine, 222. 
99 
| water (for /nvalids,) 421. 
Toasts curried with anchovies, 222. 
»» savoury, 221, 
Toffee almond, 394. 
29 
| Tomato sauce, 17. 
| »»  (¢o heep,) 19. 
salad, 196. 
| 9 toast, IQI. 
purée of, 191. 
» roast, 189. 
Tomatoes, stewed, 189. 
” stuffed, 190. 
+3 SWISS, 309. 
| Truffles 4 l Italienne, 192. 
ala Piedmontaise, 192. 
»» ala Serviette, 191. 
fried in butter, 49. 
»» with cream sauce, 49. 
Turkey, boiled, with celery sauce, 
114. 
forcemeat, 114. 
eggs, forced, 205. 
legs, broiled, 117. 
pulled, 117. 


448 


with chestnut  stuff- 
ing, 116. 
with pate de foie gras 
stuffing, 117. 
- stuffed and roasted, 115. 
Turnips, glaces, with sugar, 178. 
” mashed, 178. 
- plain, 177. 
” stewed in butter, 178. 
sauce, 273. 


VVANILLa, 
sugar, 2 


Veal, breast, stewed with oysters, 93. 
with white sauce, 


93: 


Turkey roast, 


99 +B) 


cream, 326. 


9 99 39 


» cutlets, 96. 

a lamaintenon, 96. 
braised with fresh to- 
matoes, 97. 

9, extract of, 415. 

», forcemeat. 4. 

», fricandeau, small, 92. 

», galantine, 94. 

», and ham pie, 95. ; 

», loin, ala créme, 91. 

9 ,, stuffed and roasted, 91. 


3, patties, 99. 
»,» sweetbreads, 


3x3 99 


4? 99 


with truffles, 
; 97. 
Veal, and tongue, potted, 105. 
Vegetable marrow, 182. 


INDEX. 


Vegetable marrow, fried, 182 
- » stuffed, 182. 
” salad, hot, 197. 
Vegetables, 163. 
” chartreuse of, 193. 
” curried, 193. 
” macedoine, 194. 


to preserve, 5. 
Vermicelli pudding, 302. 

- soup, 31. 
Vol-au-vent, 237 and 238. 
ot fruit, 316. 
of oysters, 53. 


93 3? re) 


39 a9 99 


ALNUTS, pickled, 18. 
eights and measures, 8. 
Welsh rabbit, 213. 
Whiskey apples, 360. 
Whitebait fried, 52. 
White bechamel sauce, 9. 
sauce, 9. 
Wild duck, 144. 
», fowl, salmi of, 144. 
Widgeons and teal, 144. 
White wine whey, 42I. 
»» with eggs, 421. 
W oodcock, Scotch, 206. 
” and snipe, 142. 


ARMOUTH bloaters, 225. 
orkshire, pudding, 290. - 
family, 292. 


9? 39 


ADVERTISEMENT. i 


T. E. THOMSON & Co, 


9, ESPLANADE ROW, CALCUTTA. 


‘or Camping, Boating, Picnic Parties, Domestic Use, &c., &c, 
PATENT PORTABLE MINERAL OIL COOKING STOVES, 


New and Improved Patterns. 


Particulars, with prices, on application. 


T. E. THOMSON & CO., CALCUTTA. 


il ADVERTISEMENT. 


CASH & CO. 


IMPORTERS OF WINES, BEER, 
AND TABLE SUPPLIES OF EVERY DESCRIPTION, 
FROM 
Crosse & Blackwell, John Moir & Son, and other 
first class Manufacturers. 


FRUIT SYRUPS. 


FLAVOURING ESSENCES. 
JAMS. JELLIES. 


TART FRUITS. 
CHUTNEYS. PICKLES. 
INDIAN CONDIMENTS. 


MUSTARD. VINEGAR 
SAUCES. 


Detailed price lists are supplied post free on application. 


CASH & Co., 


17, Dalhousie Square, Calcutta. 


ADVERTISEMENT, iii 


G. F. KELLNER & CO. 


TRUFFES PURES. 


Rs. A. 
Large .. per tin Rs. 5 @| Small .. pertin 3 0 
PATES. 
Paté de Faisan Truftés .. ~Patty of Truffled Pheasant ... pertin 3 2 
»,  Lievre do. . » ” Hare wes gy 3 10 
»»  Perdreaux do. ... ,, ” Partridge ...__,, 3 12 
»,  Becasses .do. ... ,, a Woodcock... —,, 3 12 
», Foie Gras do. ... ,, - Fat Liver ... ,, 3&4 oO 
+  Cailles do. ... 5; ” Quails vee 99 3 12 
»5  Grives do. ... 45 ” Thrush. ... ,, 8 
>»,  Bécassinesdo. ... ,, ” Snipe besos 3.12 
>»,  Chevreuil do. ... ,, + Venison, large __,, 2 4 
” 39 do. 99 ” smal] ) 1 8 
FLAVORING ESSENCES. 
Lemon, Sage, Ratafia, Thyme, Parsley, Cloves, 
Mint, Orange, Celery, Vanille, Nutmeg, Almond, 


In 1 oz. bottles, Rs. 7-8 per doz. 
Essence of Rennet for making curds and whey, Rs. 9 per doz. 
CANDIED PEELS. 
Ln stoppered bottles. 
Peels-—Orange, Lemon, Citron, and Candied Mixed i Peels, per 
bottle R. 1 2 


DRIED HERBS. 
Thyme, Sweet Marjoram, Sage, Paragon, Savory, Parsley, Mint, 


Lemon and Celery wes . large... O 14 

Ditto Ditto ... small o 8 
MARSALA. 

Marsala choice full-bodied ... . per doz. qts. ... 18 8 


LIQUEURS (DUTCH.) 


Curacoa, finest, red, per doz. a ‘ Cherry Brandy # doz. 210: 

Do. do. white ” 53 o/Chartreusegreen ,, 500 Ge- 
Créme de Noyeau ” 53 @{|Yellow  Char- nuine 
Maraschino 9 53 O| treuse... o. 42 OF “ints? 
We invite comparison of our supplies against those of any ohter 

House at similar Prices. 
[All articles supplied under a guarantee. | 
Detailed List of Wines, Stores and Cheroots en application. 


G. F. RELLNER & CO., 


WINE MERCHANTS, 
BY APPOINTMENT TO, AND UNDER THE PATRONAGE OF, 


H. E. the Viceroy, H. R. H. the Prince of Wales, 
and H. R. H. the Duke of Edinburgh. 


4, Esplanade East, Calcutta. 


ADVERTISEMENT. 


W. NEWMAN & CO., 


3, DALHOUSIE SQUARE, CALCUTTA 


No. Size. Rs. 
39. Plain white, with embossed border we 33K x24... 2 
30. 4'2x3... 2 
49. Plain white, with embossed border, and gold 
line. 3% x2... 3 
302. Parian Enamel Surface Card, with gilt and 
tinted border oO XQ... 5 
303- 29 ”? ” 7 X4}6... 6 
304. » ” - . 8 x5 ... § 
114. Plain White Card with embossed border _.... 614 x 5%... 4 
19. White Card, plain gold border... 6 x4... 5 
E. White and Tinted Cards, border (in variety) 
in gold and tint 434 x 3%... 5 
20. 455 ” ” Cards, Plain double line 
border, gold or silver ... 434 x 3%... 3 
11. Tinted Card, Grecian gilt line border we 5 X38... 5S 
240. ” fancy gold border and colored 
edge e 4'2 xX 237... 5 
244. ” 29 19 99 -/ 8 x5... 9 
231. ” border in gold and color we 5 XZ. SF 
232. ” ” ” 6 x 33y... 0 
42%. - ochre tint, with gilt ‘‘ frame” 
border.. . 5%x 3%... § 
211d. - gold border and Menu printed i in 
gold, French . 5 x3%... 5 
6It. broad border in gold and colors 634% x 4!5... 0 
2461. White Card, Holly border in gold andtint ... 5% x 333... 6 
2575. Tinted Card, broad border in goldand color 51% x3 _ ... 6 
2576. 29 29 9 512 x 338... 6 
101. Floral Cards of six designs with ‘‘Menu” at 
top 6'2 x4... 5 
2587. Tinted Card, fancy figures and ribbon border, 
in gold .. 6 
2582. Very handsome Cards, with border of figures 
of Bacchus, fruits, game, &c., on gold grouna, 
and “Menu” at top - - IS 
2580. Ditto ditto on silver ground bes » Ss 
333K Very thick ‘‘slab” Cards, plain, gilt edged, 
rose tint we SM x 33Y...13 
340K ” ” silver grey tint ... ” 13 


MENU CARDS. 


(in all Cases the prices quoted are per 100.) 


ADVERTISEMENT. 4 


No. Size folded. Rs. A. 
Two-fold Card, plain parian enamel surface, & five 
tints . 6%x4%...9 O 
” - with masonic border .- 5 X3%...9 O 
128. » n white, with narrow line border 
of gold and colour 9 oe EZ 8 
124. Three-fold Card, white with gold and black line 
border and “ Menu” .6 X4 ...12 0 


2473. Three-fold Card, tinted, Japanese pattern, very 
handsome design i in gold and colours out-side, 
and design in gold and tint inside, with 
** Menu” . 55%X4 «...25 O 


“STEEL PLATE” MENU CARDS. 
Very handsome Cards, printed in black from steel plates, in a 
variety of choice designs, Japanesque, Landscape, Aésthetic, &c. 


Series. Size. Rs. A. 
39-45. Two-fold Card, Japanesqué designs, on front 


page 7 x4%..14 8 

35A-43A.  ,, », Landscape and Marine designs 7 x44...14 8 
62-66. ” », Landscapes on front page, and 

flowers on the back 614 x 334...1§ 12 
I-11, ” »,  Japanesque and Esthetic 
designs on front and back 

pages 5 x3%...10 oO 

100. - », | Landscapes on front and back 4'3X3. ...10 0 
1015. - »» Superb Japanesque designs on 
front and back, with space 
for printing the date of 

dinner, &c. ... . 7%x5%...26 oO 

1015S. ” Ditto, with silver border... ” 29 O 

10. Single Card, one-half of the above we 7°3X5Y...13 0 

15. - the other half of the above ... 7144x5%...13 oO 
503. Japanesque design of Birds, to 


fold in half with space for guest’s name ... 5% x 33f...12 O 
250. Single Card, Landscape, Birds, and Japan- 

esque designs to fold in three with space 

for guest’s name .. .6%x4...11 4 


GUEST’S NAME CARDS. 


A variety of neat designs, many of them being designed to match 


the Menu Cards mentioned above... . As. 4toR. 1 per dozen. 
Amusing Pictorial Cards with spaces for guest names, in 

very great variety we wes per dozen As. 12-0 
‘** Sporting” Name Cards wee a packet of 2 ,, Rs, 2-8 
** Classical” Name Cards . I 5, eee Cy. | 


BALL PROGRAMME CARDS. 


A large assortment of Standard and Novel Patterns to select 
rom. 


aaa 


ate me 


