I 
I 


• 


THE 

Dewey  Cook  Book. 


COMPILED  BY  THE 


WOMEN  OF  THE  AUXILIARY 

TO  THE 


Young  Hen's  Christian  Association, 

MONTPELIER,  VERMONT. 


"He  who  hath  guests  and  gives  no  personal  attention  to  the  meal 
prepared  for  them,  is  not  worthy  to  have  friends." — Brillat-Saverin. 


MONTPELIER,  VT.: 

ARGUS  AND  PATRIOT  PRESS. 
1899. 


Library  ot  Congress 


2010  497352 


CONTENTS. 


Bread,  Breakfast  and  Tea  Cakes, 

Doughnuts  and  Fried  Cakes, 

Eggs,       -  -  -  -  - 

Salads,  - 

Soups,  - 

Fish  and  Oysters, 

Meats,  Hot  and  Cold, 

Entrees,  - 

Pies,  - 

Hot  Puddings  and  Sauces,  - 

Cold  Puddings,  Fancy  Dishes  and  Ices.  - 

Cake,  - 

Cookies,  - 

Preserves,     -  -  - 

Pickles,  - 

For  the  Chafing  Dish, 

Beverages,  - 

Candy,  - 

Suggestions,  - 


Table  of  Weights  and  Measures. 


4  saltspoonfuls  of  liquid 
4  teaspoonfuls  of  liquid 

3  teaspoonfuls  of  dry  material 

4  tablespoonfuls  of  liquid 
2  gills 

16  tablespoonfuls  of  liquid 
12  tablespoonfuls  of  dry  material 
4  cups  of  liquid 

i  rounded  tablespoonful  of  butter 

1  rounded  tablespoonful  of  sugar 

2  rounded  tablespoonfuls  of  flour 
2  rounded  tablespoonfuls  of  ground 

spice 
4  cups  of  flour 
2  cups  of  solid  butter 
%,  cup  of  butter 

2  cups  granulated  sugar 
2\4»  cups  of  powdered  sugar 

3  cups  of  meal 
i  pint  of  milk  or  water 
i  solid  pint  of  chopped  meat 
9  large  eggs,  io  medium  eggs 

A  speck  of  cayenne  pepper  is  what  you  can  take  up  on 
the  point  of  a  pen  knife. 

A  pinch  of  salt  or  spice  is  about  a  saltspoonful. 
A  piece  of  butter  the  ''size  of  an  egg11  is  equal  to  3  table- 
spoonfuls of  melted  butter  and  weighs  2  ounces. 

A  tablespoonful  of  melted  butter  is  measured  after  melting 
A  tablespoonful  of  butter  melted  is  measured  before  melting. 


equals  1  teaspoonful. 

i  tablespoonful. 
1  '* 

>2  giH»  or  14  cup. 
1  cup  or  %  pint. 
1  cup. 
1  cup. 
1  quart. 
1  ounce. 
1  ounce. 
1  ounce. 

1  ounce. 

1  pound  or  1  quart. 
1  pound. 
^  pound. 
1  pound. 
1  pound. 
1  pound. 
1  pound. 
1  pound. 
1  pound, 
you  can  take 


BREAD,  BREAKFAST  AND  TEA 
CAKES. 


"For  Ignorance,  now,  there's  no  further  excuse 
So,  a  truce  to  the  jokes,  and  the  scorn  and  abuse, 
Which  have  freely  been  showered  on  each  young- 
woman's  head, 
When  first  starting-  in  life  to  make  biscuit  or  bread." 

H.  MacDonald. 

Old  Virginia  Yeast. 

%  pint  hops.  i  gill  sugar. 

2  qts.  cold  water  reduced  to  3     1  gill  salt. 

pints  by  boiling.  pint  yeast. 

1  pt.  boiled  and  mashed  Irish 

potatoes. 

Tie  the  hops  loosely  in  a  muslin  bag  and  boil  them  in 
the  two  quarts  of  cold  water.  Boil  and  mash  the 
potatoes  very  smooth,  work  into  them  the  sugar  and 
salt,  moistening  gradually  with  the  hop  tea,  until  all  is 
mixed  and  perfectly  smooth.  Leave  until  tepid,  then 
stir  in  the  yeast.  Put  in  a  covered  crock  or  bowl  to 
work.  Keep  at  an  even  temperature  of  about  720.  In 
twenty-four  hours  you  will  see  little  bubbles  on  the  top. 
Bottle  and  keep  in  a  moderately  warm  place.  Two 
kitchen  spoonfuls  of  this  yeast  to  each  quart  of  flour. 
It  is  well  to  stir  this  yeast  occasionally  while  it  is  work- 
ing.    Shake  well  before  using. 

MISS  ALICE  NEWELL. 


s 


THE   DEWEY   COOK  BOOK. 


Brown  Bread* 


2  cups  common  corn  meal  or 
i %  cups  yellow  corn  meal. 
)^  cup  molasses. 
2  cups  good  sour  milk, 
i  teaspoonful  salt. 


%  cup  graham  flour. 
X  cup  rye  meal. 
%  cup  sugar, 
i  teaspoonful  soda, 
i  egg. 


Steam  four  hours. 


MISS  M.  ~D.  WHITE. 


Brown  Bread, 


i  cup  molasses, 
i  cup  rye  meal, 
i  egg — salt. 


2  cups  sour  milk. 
2  cups  Indian  meal. 


Steam  three  hours  and  brown  half  hour  in  oven. 

k.  h.  w. 


Brown  Bread, 


I  cup  sour  milk. 
I  cup  graham  flour, 
i  cup  Indian  meal, 
i  teaspoonful  soda. 


i  cup  sweet  milk, 
i  cup  rye  meal. 
%  cup  moiasses. 
Salt. 


Steam  three  hours  and  dry  fifteen  minutes  in  the  oven. 


Brown  Bread* 


cup  molasses. 


3  cups  rye  meal, 
i  heaping  teaspoonful  soda. 

Steam  for  six  hours. 


I  quart  sour  milk. 
3  cups  Indian  meal. 
Salt. 


MRS.  GEO.  W.  WILDER. 


Oatmeal  Bread. 


I  cup  oatmeal. 

I  tablespoonful  lard. 

K  cup  sugar. 


i  pint  boiling  water. 

%  yeast  cake. 

3^  teaspoonful  soda. 


Scald  the  oatmeal  with  boiling  water,  add  a  pinch  of 
salt  and  wheat  flour  to  make  a  stiff  batter.  Rise  over 
night. 


MRS.  C.  A.  SPARROW. 


BREAD. 


9 


Raisin  Bread. 


I  pint  milk. 
3^  yeast  cake. 


%  cup  sugar. 

i  cup  seeded  raisins. 


Make  a  sponge  and  set  it  to  rise  adding  the  chopped 
raisins  after  the  sponge  has  risen.  Add  flour  enough 
to  knead,  shape  into  a  loaf,  rise  again  and  bake. 

MRS.  c.  L.  SMITH. 


Coffee  Bread. 


3  cups  bread  sponge. 
2  tablespoonfuls  sugar. 


j  %  cup  butter. 
I  1  egg — sart- 


Roll  about  three  quarters  of  an  inch  thick,  spread  with 
bits  of  butter,  sprinkle  with  sugar  and  cinnamon,  and 
cut  any  shape  desired.  Bake  twenty  minutes. 


DICKINSON. 


Corn  Bread. 


i  cup  corn  meal. 

I  cup  sweet  milk. 

3  tablespoonfuls  melted  butter. 

i  teaspoonful  soda. 

Mix  in  the  order  given, 
thirty  minutes. 


1  cup  wheat  flour. 
%  cup  sugar. 

2  teaspoonfuls  cream  of  tartar. 
3^'  teaspoonful  salt. 

Bake  in  shallow  pan  about 


MISS  ELLA  M.  BAILEY. 


Corn  Bread. 


i  cup  corn  meal, 
i  cup  milk. 

1  tablespooful  melted  butter. 

2  teaspoonfuls  baking-powder. 


i  cup  flour. 

1  egg- 

2  tablespoonfuls  sugar, 
i  teaspoonful  salt. 


Mix  flour,  salt  and  sugar.  Add  the  milk  to  the  beaten 
yolk  and  stir  this  into  the  dry  mixture.  Add  the  white, 
beaten  stiff,  and  bake  in  hissing  hot  gem  pans  thirty 
minutes. 

MRS.  INEZ  B.  MOULTON. 


lO 


THE   DEWEY   COOK  BOOK. 


Com  Bread. 


2  cups  sour  milk. 

i  cup  flour. 

i  teaspoonful  soda. 


i  cup  corn  meal. 

I  small  half  cup  sugar. 

%  teaspoonful  salt. 


Mix  in  the  order  given  and  bake. 


MKS.  ALMA  SMITH  , 


Corn  Cake* 


\%  cups  corn  meal. 
%  cup  sugar. 
%  cup  sour  cream. 
%  teaspoonful  salt. 


1  egg. 

I  cup  sour  milk. 

1  even  teaspoonful  soda  dis  - 

solved  in  a  little  milk. 

2  tablespoonfuls  flour. 


The  soda  should  be  added  last, 
about  twenty  minutes. 


Bake  in  a  hot  oven 


MRS.  J.  A.  DE  BOEE. 


Johnny  Cake. 

One  tumbler  of  corn  meal,  one  tumbler  of  flour,  one 
half  a  cup  of  sugar,  a  little  salt,  and  two  teaspoonfuls  of 
Royal  baking  powder.  Wet  very  moist  with  milk  and 
bake. 

MRS.  F.  H.  MERRILL,. 


Muffins. 


1  pint  pastry  flour. 

2  tablespoonfuls  melted  butter. 
2  teaspoonfuls  cream  of  tartar. 


I  i  egg,  beaten  light. 

i  cup  sweet  milk. 
I  i  teaspoonful  soda. 


Bake  in  a  moderate  oven  in  muffin  rings. 


MRS.  CHARLES  H.  MORE. 


Muffins. 


4)2  cups  flour. 
1  egg. 

%  cup  butter. 

3  teaspoonfuls  baking  powder. 


1%  cups  sweet  milk. 
2  tablespoonfuls  sugar. 
%  teaspoonful  salt. 


BREAKFAST   AND   TEA  CAKES. 


I  I 


Breakfast  Muffins* 


i%  cups  flour. 

2  heaping  teaspoonfuls  baking 

powder. 
%  cup  sugar. 


{  pint  milk, 
eggs. 

j  cup  melted  butter, 
teaspoonful  salt. 

MRS.  EDWARD  DEWEY. 


Parker  House  Rolls. 

Pour  one  pint  of  scalded  milk  on  one  tablespoonful 
each  of  butter  and  sugar  and  one  teaspoonful  of  salt. 
When  lukewarm,  add  one  cake  of  yeast  dissolved  in  a 
little  lukewarm  water.     Add  three  cups  of  flour  and 


beat  well.    Let  it  rise  over  night, 


if  mixed  in  the 


morning,  about  three  hours.  Then  add  from  two  to 
three  cups  of  flour,  or  enough  to  knead  it,  and  knead 
half  an  hour.  Let  it  rise  in  the  bowl,  shape  into  rolls, 
rise  again  and  bake  as  usual. 

MISS  KATE  KEMPTON. 

Ginger  Puffs. 


i  egg. 

3^  cup  sugar. 

i  teaspoonful  ginger. 

3^  cup  hot  water. 

Cook  in  hot  gem  pans. 


%  cup  molasses. 
3^  cup  butter. 

1  teaspoonful  soda. 

2  cups  flour. 


MRS.  FRANK  SHERBURNE. 


2  cups  thick  sour  milk. 
2  tablespoonfuls  butter. 
I  teaspoonful  soda. 


Gems. 


j  2  cups  entire  wheat  flour. 
.  2  tablespoonfuls  sugar. 
!  %  teaspoonful  salt. 


Bake  fifteen  minutes  in  hot,  well  buttered  gem  pans. 
Sour  cream  may  be  used  in  place  of  the  butter,  and  one 
tablespoonful  each  of  sugar  and  molasses  instead  of  all 
sugar. 


12 


THE   DEWEY   COOK  BOOK. 


Old  Fashioned  Sally  Lunn* 

Scald  a  pint  of  milk  and  when  it  reaches  boiling  point 
remove  from  the  tire  and  add  two  tablespoonfuls  of 
butter.  Beat  four  eggs,  add  to  the  milk  when  it  is  luke- 
warm. Add  two  tablespoonfuls  of  sugar,  one  teaspoon- 
ful  of  salt,  and  half  a  cake  of  compressed  yeast  dissolved 
in  two  tablespoonfuls  of  warm  water.  Sift  a  quart  of 
flour  into  a  large  bowl  and  pour  the  above  mixture  into 
the  center  of  the  flour.  Work  all  smooth lv  together, 
beat  for  five  minutes,  cover  and  set  to  rise.  Then  beat 
again,  pour  into  a  baking  pan,  let  it  rise  to  twice  its 
bulk.  Bake  in  a  moderate  oven  three-quarters  of  an 
hour.  When  browning  cover  it  with  paper  for  a 
quarter  of  an  hour.    A  favorite  Xew  England  tea  cake. 

MISS  LUCY  BRADSHAW. 

Breakfast  Cake* 

i  cup  sugar.  I  2  cups  milk. 

1  quart  flour.  %  cup  melted  butter. 
3  eggs.  I  1  teaspoonful  soda. 

2  teaspoonfuls  cream  of  tartar.  |  %  teaspoonful  salt. 

Bake  twenty  minutes. 

AEISS  LUCY  BRADSHAW. 

Baking;  Powder  Biscuit* 

To  one  teacupful  of  sweet  milk  add  one  tablespoon- 
ful  of  melted  butter  and  flour  enough  to  make  quite  stiff 
batter.  Add  two  teaspoonfuls  of  baking  powder  and 
a  half  teaspoonful  of  salt  to  the  flour.  Stir  well  to- 
gether and  drop  from  a  spoon  on  a  biscuit  tin.  Bake 
in  a  quick  oven.     This  quantity  will  make  ten  biscuits. 

MRS.  J.  W.  CLARK. 


BREAKFAST   AND   TEA  CAKES. 


r3 


Blueberry  Breakfast  Cake* 

%  cup  sugar.  3l>  CUP  butter. 

1  cup  berries,  washed,  dried      3  cups  flour. 

and  floured.  1  egg. 

2  teaspoonfuls  baking-powder.     1  cup  milk. 
3^  teaspoonful  salt. 

Mix  the  salt,  baking  powder,  and  sugar  with  the 
flour.  Rub  in  the  butter,  add  the  milk  and  the  flour. 
Lastly  stir  in  the  berries.  Bake  in  a  shallow  pan  about 
half  an  hour. 

MES.  H.  M.  O'DELL. 

Blueberry  Cake* 


1  cup  sugar. 

3  teaspoonfuls  baking-powder. 
3  tablespoonfuls  melted  butter. 
1  pint  blueberries,  well  floured. 


3  cups  flour. 

%  teaspoonful  salt. 

1  cup  sweet  milk. 

MRS.  HEXRY  COLTON. 


DOUGHNUTS  AND  FRIED  CAKES 


Plain  Doughnuts* 


i  even  teaspoonful  salt, 
i  pint  flour. 


1  cup  sweet  milk. 

2  teaspoonfuls  melted  lard. 
2  teaspoonfuls  baking  powder. 

Mix  flour,  salt  and  baking  powder.  Add  milk  and 
lard.     Roll  about  an  inch  thick  and  fry  in  hot  lard. 


MBS.  C.  H.  H EATON. 


Raised  Doughnuts* 


I  pint  sweet  milk. 
I  cup  sweet  cream  (or  sour 
sweetened  with  soda). 


i  tablespoonful  salt. 

%  cake  yeast. 

Flour  to  make  stiff  as  bread , 


Rise  over  night.  In  the  morning  turn  out  on  the 
board  but  do  not  knead.  Cut  off  in  strips,  twist,  and 
fry. 


MRS.  T.  C.  PHLNNEY. 


Plain  Doughnuts* 

egg,  broken,  not  beaten  into  I  2  cups  flour. 


the  milk. 


cup 


milk. 


1  even  tablespoonful  sugar. 
1  teaspoonful  melted  butter. 
%  teaspoonful  salt. 


2  even  teaspoonfuls  baking- 
powder. 

Mix  and  roll  about  half  an  inch  thick,  cut  out  and 
fry  in  deep  fat. 

MRS.  J.  A.  DE  BOER. 


FRIED  CAKES. 


!5 


Doughnuts. 

1  egg.  I  cup  sugar. 

6  teaspoonfuls  melted  lard.  i  cup  sweet  milk. 

2  teaspoonfuls  cream  of  tartar.     %  teaspoonful  salt, 
i  teaspoonful  soda.  A  little  nutmeg. 

Add  flour  enough  to  make  a  stiff  dough. 

MRS.  K.  C.  CHAPMAN. 


Doughnuts* 


i  even  teaspoonful  salt, 
i  pint  flour. 


1  cup  sw^et  milk. 

2  teaspoonfuls  melted  butter. 
2  teaspoonfuls  baking-powder. 

Into  the  flour  stir  the  baking  powder,  then  stir  all 
together.  Roll  a  little  less  than  an  inch  in  thickness, 
cut  and  fry  in  hot  lard. 

MES.  C.  H.  HEATON. 

Raised  Sweetened  Doughnuts* 

Scald  half  a  pint  of  milk,  add  four  tablespoonfuls  of 
cold  water,  one  teaspoonful  of  salt,  half  a  cup  of  yeast, 
and  flour  enough  to  make  a  thin  batter ;  let  it  rise  over 
night.  In  the  morning  add  two  well  beaten  eggs,  one 
cup  of  sugar,  one  teaspoonful  of  soda,  and  flour  enough 
to  roll  out.  Put  in  a  greased  dish  and  when  light,  turn 
out  and  cut  into  circles,  without  moulding.  Let  them 
rise  on  a  board  until  very  light,  two  or  three  hours. 
Fry  and  roll  in  powdered  sugar. 

MRS.  W.  A.  BRIGGS. 


Indian  Meal  Crullers. 

2  cups  sugar.  2  cups  Indian  meal. 

2  cups  sweet  milk.  2  cups  flour. 

2  teaspoonfuls  salt.  \%  teaspoonfuls  soda. 

3  teaspoonfuls  cream  of  tartar.  )4  a  nutmeg. 


i6 


THE   DEWEY   COOK  BOOK. 


Sift  the  flour,  Indian  meal  and  cream  of  tartar  to- 
gether. Add  sugar  and  nutmeg.  Dissolve  the  soda  in 
the  milk  and  mix  all  together. 


MISS  J.  M.  HOUGHTON. 


Corn  Fritters. 


i  pint  grated  corn. 

i  tablespoonful  melted  butter. 

%  cup  milk. 


cup  flour. 
%  teaspoonful  baking-powder. 

1  teaspoonful  salt. 

2  eggs. 

Sift  together  the  flour,  baking  powder  and  salt.  Mix 
the  grated  corn,  butter  and  milk,  add  the  prepared  flour 
and  lastly  the  well-beaten  eggs.    Fry  in  hot  lard. 


MRS.  FRANK  SHERBURNE. 


Corn  Fritters. 


i  pint  grated  corn, 
i  teaspoonful  salt, 
i  egg. 


I  cup  flour. 

A  'dash  of  black  pepper. 
%  cup  milk. 


Fry  by  the  spoonful,  like  fritters,  in  boiling  lard. 

MRS.  INEZ  B.  MOULTON. 

Tomato  Fritters. 

Cook  one  can  of  tomatoes  with  six  cloves,  three 
slices  of  onion  and  two  tablespoonfuls  of  sugar  for 
twenty  minutes.  Strain  and  season  with  one  teaspoonful 
of  salt  and  one  saltspoonful  of  pepper.  Melt  two  table- 
spoonfuls  of  butter,  add  two  heaping  tablespoonfuls  of 
cornstarch,  stir  and  pour  into  the  hot  tomato.  Cook 
three  minutes.  Add  one  beaten  egg,  remove  from  the 
fire  and  pour  into  a  shallow  dish  to  cool.  Cut  into 
strips,  dip  in  egg  and  cracker  crumbs,  and  fry  in  deep 
lard.  Have  the  lard  so  hot  it  will  brown  a  piece  of 
bread  in  forty  seconds. 

MRS.  HARRY  COLTON. 


r 


FRIED  CAKES 


Waffles* 


I  pint  milk. 

i  tablespoonful  melted  butter. 
34  teaspoonful  soda,  dissolved 
in  a  little  water. 


34  yeast  cake. 
2  eggs. 

3 o  teaspoonful  salt. 


Mix  at  night  the  milk,  yeast  and  salt,  adding  flour 
enough  to  make  a  batter  as  stiff  as  tor  pancakes.  In 
the  morning  add  the  eggs  well  beaten,  melted  butter  and 
soda. 

MBS.  C.  H.  BALDWIN. 

Waffles. 

I  cup  sour  cream.  3^  CUP  sour  milk. 

4  egSs-  1  teaspoonful  soda, 

i  teaspoonful  salt.  Flour. 

Mix  and  add  flour  enough  to  make  a  little  stiffer  than 
for  griddle  cakes. 

MISS  M.  D.  WHITE. 

Buckwheat  Griddle  Cakes* 


1  quart  lukewarm  water. 

2  teaspoonfuls  molasses, 
i  teaspoonful  salt. 


3^  cup  melted  butter. 
%  cup  yeast  or  34  compressed 

yeast  cake. 
%  teaspoonful  soda. 

Dissolve  the  soda  in  a  very  little  water  and  add  to 
other  ingredients  just  before  frying.  The  molasses 
makes  the  cakes  brown  nicely.  Sponge  twelve  hours 
before  using. 

MBS.  J.  A.  DE  BOEB. 

Wheat  Griddle  Cakes* 


2.%,  cups  flour  before  sifting. 

%  teaspoonful  salt. 

2  tablespoonfuls  melted  butter. 


1  pint  milk. 

3  even  teaspoonfuls  baking 

powder. 
1  egg. 


Break  the  egg  into  the  batter  and  beat  all  well  to- 
gether.   Fry  on  a  hot  griddle. 


MBS.  J.  A.  DE  BOEB. 


EGGS. 


Stuffed  Eggs. 

Cut  in  halves  six  hard  boiled  eggs.  Mash  the 
yolks.  Mix  thoroughly  two  spoonfuls  of  bread  crumbs 
with  two  spoonfuls  of  cream,  add  one  spoonful  of 
chopped  capers,  one  half  teaspoonful  vinegar  and  a  little 
salt.  Mix  this  with  the  mashed  yolks  of  the  eggs.  Fill 
the  half  whites  with  the  mixture,  garnish  with  parsley 
and  serve. 

MRS.  E.  P.  SMILIE. 

Deviled  Eggs* 

Boil  hard  the  desired  number  of  eggs.  When  cold 
remove  from  the  shells,  divide  the  eggs  in  halves,  take 
out  the  yolks  and  rub  them  smooth  in  a  bowl,  adding 
to  taste  salt,  pepper,  mustard,  and  a  little  melted  butter. 
Fill  the  whites  with  this  mixture  and  place  on  crisp 
lettuce  leaves.  Serve  with  or  without  a  mayonnaise 
dressing. 

MRS.  INEZ  B.  MOULTON. 

Stuffed  Eggs. 

Boil  six  eggs  twenty  minutes.  Remove  the  shells 
and  cut  the  eggs  carefullv  lengthwise.     Take  out  the 


EGGS. 


*9 


yolks.  To  one  cup  of  chicken,  chopped  very  fine  and 
seasoned  highly  with  chopped  parsley,  salt  and  cayenne 
pepper,  add  the  yolks  which  have  been  grated.  Cook 
one-half  of  a  cup  of  bread  crumbs  in  three  tablespoon- 
fuls  of  milk  to  a  smooth  paste.  Mix  with  the  chicken 
and  egg.  Cover  each  half  of  an  egg  thickly  with  this 
force  meat,  place  on  a  buttered  dish  and  bake  until 
lightly  browned.  Arrange  on  a  hot  platter  with  a 
cream  sauce  poured  around  them.  Garnish  with 
parsley. 

MRS.  J.  C.  HOUGHTON. 

Omelet. 

Mix  the  beaten  yolks  of  six  eggs,  one  cup  of  milk, 
one  tablespoonful  of  flour  and  a  pinch  of  salt.  Add  the 
beaten  whites  of  the  eggs.  Have  a  buttered  pan  very 
hot,  pour  in  the  mixture  and  bake  in  a  quick  oven  five 
minutes. 

MRS.  HENRY  OOLTON. 

Beauregard  Eggs. 

Put  four  eggs  into  a  sauce  pan  of  boiling  water,  cover 
and  set  on  the  back  of  the  range,  not  allowing  the  water 
to  boil,  let  them  stand  about  half  an  hour,  then  drain 
and  cover  with  cold  water.  When  the  eggs  are  cold 
remove  the  shells  and  chop  the  whites  rather  fine.  Cut 
slices  of  bread  to  resemble  the  petals  of  a  daisy,  toast 
and  arrange  on  a  plate  to  simulate  a  daisy.  Have  ready 
a  sauce  made  with  two  tablespoonfuls  of  butter,  two 
tablespoonfuls  of  flour,  a  scant  quarter  of  a  teaspoonful 
of  salt,  and  three  quarters  of  a  cup  of  milk.  Add  the 
chopped  whites  to  the  sauce,  and  after  it  has  been  re- 
heated, spread  this  mixture  on  the  toast.    Press  the 


20 


THE   DEWEY   COOK  BOOK. 


yolks  through  a  sieve  into  the  center  of  the  dish,  set 
in  the  oven  for  a  few  minutes,  then  serve. garnished  with 
parsley. 

MRS.  HIRAM  CARXETON. 


SALADS. 


Mayonnaise  Dressing. 

Four  heaping  tablespoonfuls  of  melted  butter,  with 
one  heaping  tablespoonful  of  flour,  added  when  hot  and 
stirred  until  smooth.  Add  one  cup  of  milk,  two  eggs 
beaten  light,  one  teaspoonful  of  mustard,  one-half  tea- 
spoonful  of  salt,  a  dash  of  red  pepper,  two  tablespoon- 
fuls of  sugar  and  one-half  a  cup  of  vinegar.  Mix  well 
together,  put  in  a  double  boiler  and  heat  until  it  thickens, 
stirring  all  the  time. 

MRS.  J.  W.  CLARK. 

Mayonnaise  Dressing* 

3  eggs.  3  tablespoonfuls  butter. 

1  teaspoonful  salt.  i  teaspoonful  pepper. 

2  tablespoonfuls  sugar.  i  teacupful  vinegar. 

i  teaspoonful  mixed  mustard.      6  tablespoonfuls  sweet  cream. 

Mix  in  a  bowl  and  place  over  steam,  stirring  con- 
stantly until  thick  like  a  custard. 

MRS.  D.  S.  WHEATLEY. 

Boiled  Salad  Dressing. 

Melt  one  tablespoonful  of  butter  in  a  sauce  pan,  add 
one  tablespoonful  of  flour ;  cook  together  until  frothy, 
but  not  brown ;  add  gradually  a  half  cup  of  vinegar 


22 


THE   DEWEY   COOK  BOOK. 


and  continue  cooking  until  the  mixture  thickens,  then 
remove  from  the  stove.  Mix  thoroughly  one  teaspoon- 
ful  each  of  salt,  sugar  and  mustard,  add  a  few  grains  of 
cayenne  and  stir  into  the  vinegar  sauce,  stirring  until 
smooth.  Heat  one  cup  of  milk  in  a  double  boiler,  add 
the  yolks  of  two  eggs,  well  beaten,  mix  well  and  cook 
like  a  custard,  stirring  all  the  time.  When  slightly 
thickened  remove  the  upper  boiler  and  gradually  mix 
the  custard  with  the  vinegar  sauce.  Beat  it  with  an 
egg  beater  until  smooth  and  strain  before  it  cools.  Put 
it  away  in  glass  jars  closely  covered,  and  it  will  keep 
for  weeks  in  a  cool  place. 

MRS.  HARRY  COLTON. 

Salad  Dressing* 

i  scant  tablespoonful  flour.  i  egg. 

j  scant  tablespoonful  mustard.  i  cup  vinegar. 

1  scant  tablespoonful  salt.  i  cup  milk. 

2  tablespoonfuls  sugar. 

Mix  the  dry  ingredients,  stir  in  the  egg,  then  very 
slowly  stir  in  the  vinegar,  and  lastly  add  the  milk  just 
before  cooking.  Cook  in  double  boiler  until  of  the 
consistency  of  thick  cream.     Strain  if  necessary. 

MRS.  F.  H.  M. 

Mayonnaise  Dressing* 

i  tablespoonful  mustard.  I  tablespoonful  sugar, 

i  teaspoonful  salt.  %  saltspoonful  cayenne. 

3  tablespoonfuls  Taragon  vin-    Yolks  3  raw  eggs. 

egar.  I  pint  olive  oil. 

Juice  half  a  lemon. 
%  cup  cream,  whipped. 

Mix  the  dry  ingredients  in  a  small  bowl.  Add  the 
eggs  one  at  a  time,  beating  until  very  thick.  Add  the 
oil  a  few  drops  at  a  time.    When  the  dressing   is  too 


SALADS. 


23 


thick  to  beat  easily  thin  it  with  a  few  drops  of  the  lemon, 
then  add  oil  and  lemon  alternately,  and  lastly  the  vine- 
gar. When  ready  to  serve  add  the  whipped  cream. 
Do  not  mix  the  mayonnaise  with  the  meat  or  fish  until 
ready  to  serve,  as  it  liquifies  quickly.  Add  only  part  of 
the  dressing  to  the  salad,  spread  the  remainder  on  top. 

H. 

French  Dressings 

3  tablespoonfuls  oil.  \  %  teaspoonful  salt. 

1  tablespoonful  vinegar.  |  %  saltspoonful  cayenne. 

Place  the  cayenne  and  salt,  and  one  tablespoonful  of 
oil  in  a  cup,  mix  thoroughly,  add  gradually  the  remain- 
der of  the  oil  and  the  vinegar,  beating  well  all  the  time. 

G.  R. 

Tomato  Salad* 

Cook  one  can  of  tomatoes  fifteen  minutes,  add  one 
teaspoonful  of  salt  and  rub  through  a  sieve.  Add  one 
half  box  of  gelatine  soaked  ten  minutes  in  half  a  cup  of 
cold  wrater.  Strain  into  small  cups  with  rounded  bot- 
toms. Set  in  the  ice  box  for  at  least  three  hours. 
When  ready  to  serve  remove  from  the  cups,  place  on 
lettuce  leaves,  and  put  mayonnaise  on  each  mold. 

MISS  MARY  WILLARD. 

Cucumber  Salad* 

Pare  and  slice  the  cucumbers  very  thin,  place  in  a 
bowl  in  layers,  covering  each  layer  thickly  with  salt  and 
let  them  stand  two  or  three  hours  to  thoroughly  wilt  the 
cucumbers.  Squeeze  the  slices  hard,  to  get  out  all  of  the 
salt ;  wash  in  ice  water,  being  careful  to  press  out  the 
water  with  the  hands.    Place  in  a  salad  bowl,  sprinkle 


THE   DEWEY   COOK  BOOK. 


with  one-quarter  of  a  saltspoonful  of  pepper.  Add  a 
few  drops  of  onion  juice  and  one  large  spoonful  of  sour 
cream.  Vinegar  to  taste.  Toss  all  together  and  serve. 
This  is  very  nice  with  fish. 

MRS.  J.  C.  HOUGHTON. 

Tomato  and  Cucumber  Salad* 

Take  four  small  ripe  tomatoes,  remove  the  skins  and 
cut  in  quarters.  Slice  thin  two  good  sized  cucumbers. 
Line  a  salid  dish  with  blanched  lettuce  leaves,  place  the 
quartered  tomatoes  on  them,  and  put  the  cucumbers 
between  the  tomatoes.  Pour  over  the  whole  a  small 
cupful  of  French  dressing.  Let  it  stand  on  ice  one 
hour  before  serving. 

MRS.  J.  C.  HOUGHTON. 

Cabbage  Salad* 

%  head  cabbage  chopped  fine.  i  cup  sugar. 

I  cup  vinegar.  4  eggs. 

Butter  size  of  an  egg.  1  teaspoonful  pepper. 

1  teaspoonful  salt.  1  teaspoonful  mustard. 

When  vinegar,  sugar,  butter,  pepper,  salt  and  mus- 
tard are  boiling  hot,  add  the  cabbage ;  when  it  boils 
again  add  the  beaten  eggs  and  remove  from  the  fire. 
When  cold,  add  two-thirds  of  a  cup  of  whipped  cream. 

MRS.  T.  J.  DEAYITT. 

Stringbean  Salad* 

Boil  stringbeans  until  tender,  and  season  as  for  the 
table.  Pour  over  them  vinegar,  and  allow  to  stand  two 
or  three  hours.  Pour  off  the  vinegar,  and  dress  with  a 
French  dressing:  of  oil  and  vinegar. 

MRS.  H.  S.  BOARDMAN. 


SALADS. 


25 


Potato  Salad* 

Three  good  sized  cold,  boiled  potatoes,  one  onion, 
and  whites  of  two  hard  boiled  eggs,  sliced  alternately 
in  a  salad  dish.  Yolks  of  the  two  eggs  rubbed  smooth 
with  a  tablespoonful  of  butter,  a  little  salt,  mustard, 
sugar  and  half  a  cup  of  vinegar ;  pour  this  over  the 
potato,  onion  and  whites  of  eggs,  and  let  it  stand  half  a 
day. 

MRS.  HENRY  COLTON. 

Cauliflower  Salad* 

Carefully  divide  the  cauliflower  so  as  not  to  break 
the  flowerets.  Wash  well,  and  let  it  stand  in  salted 
water  one  hour.  Cook  in  plenty  of  salted  boiling 
water  for  twenty  minutes,  or  until  tender.  Do  not 
cover  while  boiling.  Drain  and  set  aside  to  cool. 
When  cold,  cover  with  three  tablespoonfuls  of  oil,  two 
tablespoonfuls  of  vinegar,  one  teaspoonful  of  salt,  one 
saltspoonful  of  cayenne  pepper,  well  beaten  together. 
Let  it  stand  one  hour  in  the  ice  box.  Pour  off  this 
dressing  and  cover  with  mayonnaise.  Serve. 

MRS.  J.  C.  HOUGHTON. 

Lobster  Salad* 

4  eggs.  i  tablespoonful  sugar. 

2  tablespoonfuls  butter.  I  teaspoonful  salt. 

2  tablespoonfuls  vinegar.  I  tablespoonful  mustard. 

Beat  the  whites  of  the  eggs  separately  and  add  last. 
Cook  the  dressing  in  a  boiler  set  in  a  kettle  of  water, 
stirring  until  it  thickens.  When  cold,  add  cream 
enough  to  make  as  thick  as  boiled  custard.  Add  salt 
and  red  pepper  to  the  chopped  lobster  and  lettuce. 

MRS.  T.  J.  DEA.VITT. 


26 


THE  DEWEY  COOK  BOOK. 


Grape  Fruit  Salad* 

Select  large  grape  fruit,  allowing  one  to  every  four 
persons.  Peel  and  divide  into  sections,  carefully  re- 
moving the  seeds  and  all  of  the  thick,  white,  bitter 
skin.  Arrange  the  sections  on  lettuce,  and  pour  over 
all  a  French  dressing.  This  salad  should  be  thorough- 
ly chilled  before  serving. 

B. 

Tomato  Baskets  with  Celery* 

Peel  large,  fine  tomatoes.  If  skins  are  loosened  by 
plunging  in  hot  water,  the  tomatoes  should  be  thor- 
oughly chilled  before  using.  Leave  a  strip  of  tomato 
over  the  middle  to  serve  as  a  handle,  cut  away  the  flesh 
from  each  side,  and  scoop  out  the  inside  of  the  fruit. 
Prepare  the  celery  by  splitting  each  stalk  into  sections  the 
thickness  oi  a  straw  and  a  quarter  of  an  inch  long. 
Mix  with  mayonnaise,  and  fill  the  baskets  with  the 
dressed  celery. 


SOUPS. 


Quaker  Soup* 

5  potatoes.  i  3  onions. 

1  quart  milk.  j  Boston  crackers. 

Salt.  I 

Boil  the  potatoes  and  onions  together  until  soft,  add 
the  milk  and  salt,  boil  until  it  is  a  cream.  Strain  and 
serve  with  the  crackers. 

MRS.  D.  S.  WHBATLEY. 

Crearn  of  Onion  Soup* 

One  dozen  onions  browned  in  one  tablespoonful  of 
butter.  Boil  one  half  hour  or  until  soft,  and  press 
through  a  colander.  Add  one  quart  of  milk  and  bring 
to  a  boil.  Season  with  salt  and  pepper.  Just  before 
serving  add  three  eggs  beaten  very  light. 

MRS.  BOARDMAN. 

Lobster  Soup. 

Chop  fine  the  meat  of  a  small  lobster,  add  three 
crackers  rolled  fine,  butter  the  size  of  an  egg,  salt  and 
pepper  to  taste.  Mix  all  together  and  add  gradually  a 
pint  of  boiling  milk  stirring  all  the  while.  Boil  up  once 
and  serve. 

MliS.  INEZ  B.  MOULTON. 


28 


THE   DEWEY   COOK  BOOK. 


Fish  Soup* 

I  pound  cod.  i  quart  milk. 

i  slice  onion.  2  celery  stalks. 

1  tablespoonful  vinegar.  2,  tablespoon fuls  flour. 

1  tablespoonful  butter.  1  teaspoonful  salt. 

1  saltspoonful  cayenne. 

Cook  the  fish  in  boiling  salted  water,  (to  which  add 
the  vinegar)  until  the  fish  flakes  easily.  Drain.  Re- 
move the  bones  and  skin,  rub  through  a  colander.  Cook 
the  onion  and  celery  in  the  milk  ten  minutes  ;  remove  ; 
thicken  with  the  butter,  salt,  pepper  and  flour,  which 
have  been  smoothed  together.  Boil  five  minutes.  Add 
the  fish.    Boil  up  once.     Serve  immediately. 

G.  K.  H. 


Fish  Chowder* 

2  pounds  fish.  j  2  good  sized  potatoes. 

2  medium  sized  onions,  or  one  |  3  slices  pork. 

large  one.  |  6  Boston  crackers. 

3  pints  milk. 

Parboil  the  fish  just  enough  to  bone.  Pare  and  slice 
the  potatoes  an  eight  of  an  inch  thick,  and  parboil  until 
about  half  cooked.  Take  out  the  potatoes  and  put  them 
in  the  kettle  with  the  boned  fish.  Fry  the  pork  to  a 
brown  crisp,  be  careful  not  to  burn  it,  take  out  the  pork 
and  in  the  pork  fat  fry  the  onion,  which  should  be 
sliced  thin.  When  well  cooked  take  out  the  onion 
and  pour  the  fat  over  the  fish  and  potatoes.  To 
this  add  enough  water  to  cover  it  well  and  season  it  with 
salt  and  pepper.  Let  it  cook  until  the  potatoes  are  soft, 
but  will  remain  whole,  then  add  the  milk  which  should 
be  scalded.  Divide  the  crackers  and  put  them  in  trie 
tureen  and  pour  the  chowder  over  them.     As  a  substi- 


SOUPS. 


29 


tute  for  pork  use  half  butter  and  half  lard,  enough  to  fry 
the  onions  in.  This  quantity  makes  enough  for  six  or 
eight  persons. 

MRS  M.  E.  MORE. 

Ox  Tail  Soup. 

Divide  the  tails  at  the  joints,  soak  them  in  warm 
water.  Put  them  into  cold  water  in  a  gallon  pot.  Skim 
off  the  froth  carefully.  When  the  meat  is  boiled  to 
shreds,  take  out  the  bones  and  add  a  chopped  onion  and 
carrot.  Use  spices  and  sweet  herbs  if  desired.  Boil 
them  three  or  four  hours. 

MRS.  E.  P.  JEWETT. 

White  Soup* 

A  large  knuckle  of  veal  to  four  quarts  of  water,  two 
onions,  two  carrots,  two  turnips,  a  little  celery  and  salt. 
Boil  down  to  two  quarts  and  strain  it.  Add  one  pint  or 
less  of  new  milk,  the  well  beaten  yolks  of  three  eggs, 
vermicelli,  and  let  it  come  to  a  boil.  Rice  flour  may 
be  added  or  crushed  crackers. 

MRS.  K.  P.  JEWETT. 

Cream  of  Celery  Soup. 

Boil  six  potatoes  and  press  through  a  colander  or  po- 
tato masher.  To  one  quart  of  milk  add  butter,  the 
size  of  an  egg,  salt,  pepper,  and  celery  salt  to  taste. 
Add  the  potatoes  and  bring  all  to  a  boil.  Serve.  A 
cup  of  whipped  sweet  cream  added  just  as  the  soup  is 
ready  to  serve  is  a  great  improvement.  This  soup  may 
be  varied  by  boiling  two  onions,  two  slices  of  turnip, 
and  a  stalk  of  celery  with  the  potatoes. 

MRS.  A.  N.  BLANCH ARD. 


THE   DEWEY   COOK  BOOK. 


Mrs*  M.  F.  Burnham's  Vegetable  Soup. 

Simmer  four  pounds  of  a  shank  of  beef  in  three  quarts 
of  water  for  four  hours.  Remove  the  meat,  add  two 
thirds  of  a  cup  of  barley.  Cook  one  hour,  then  add  one 
small  turnip  chopped  fine.  Boil  fifteen  minutes,  add 
one-fourth  of  a  small  cabbage  sliced  fine,  and  two  or 
three  carrots  grated.  Then  boil  thirty  minutes  and 
strain.     Salt  and  pepper  to  taste. 

MRS.  T.  J.  DEAVITT. 


Green  Pea  Soup» 

Cover  one  quart  of  peas  with  hot  water,  add  an  onion 
and  boil  until  they  will  mash  easily.  Mash  and  add  one 
pint  of  stock  or  water.  Cook  two  tablespoonfuls  of 
butter  and  one  of  flour  until  smooth  but  not  brown. 
Add  the  peas,  then  a  cup  of  milk,  season  and  let  it  boil 
up  once.  Strain  and  serve.  Put  a  cup  of  whipped 
cream  in  the  tureen  before  pouring  in  the  soup. 

MRS.  HIRAM  CARLETON. 


Tomato  Soup. 


I  can  tomatoes. 

i  large  tablespoonful  flour. 

Pepper  and  salt  to  taste. 


3  pints  milk. 

Butter  the  size  of  an  egg. 
I  small  teaspoonful  soda. 


Stew  the  tomatoes.  Heat  the  milk  to  boiling. 
Smooth  the  flour  with  a  little  cold  milk,  add  to  it  the 
butter,  salt  and  pepper,  and  stir  into  the  boiling  milk. 
Cook  ten  minutes.  Add  the  soda  to  the  tomatoes,  stir 
into  the  milk  mixture,  strain  and  serve.  An  onion 
can  be  added  if  wished. 

:  .  MRS.  HIRAM  CARLETON. 


SOUPS. 


Tomato  Soup. 

2  quarts  tomatoes  (canned  or  2  quarts  milk. 

fresh.)  2  ounces  flour. 

2  ounces  butter.  1  teaspoonful  soda. 

1  teaspoonful  pepper.  .  A  pinch  nutmeg  or  cinnamon. 
4  teaspoonfuls  salt. 

If  fresh  tomatoes  are  used,  peel  and  cook  thoroughly, 
then  strain.  Heat  the  milk  to  scalding  point  in  double 
boiler.  Add  the  salt  and  pepper  to  the  tomato,  mix 
the  butter  and  flour  together,  making  it  of  the  consis- 
tency of  cream,  with  a  little  of  the  hot  tomato,  stir  in 
the  soda  dissolved  in  a  little  of  the  soup.  Let  it  boil  a 
few  minutes,  then  pour  in  the  boiling  milk,  and  serve 
with  squares  of  dry  bread  fried  in  boiling  lard,  dried  on 
a  towel,  and  thrown  in  as  the  soup  goes  to  the  table. 
If  canned  tomatoes  are  used,  add  a  tablespoonful  of 
sugar  to  each  quart.  Excellent. 

MISS  M.  D.  WHITE. 

Tomato  Soup. 

A  can  of  tomatoes  and  a  pint  of  water  boiled  to- 
gether for  twenty  minutes.  Season  with  salt,  pepper 
and  a  teaspoonful  of  sugar.  Thicken  with  a  table- 
spoonful  of  flour,  and  add  a  piece  of  butter  the  size  of  a 
walnut. 

MRS.  T.  J.  DEAVITT. 

Tomato  Soup. 

Add  to  a  pint  of  water  ten  medium  sized,  or  one 
quart  can  of  tomatoes,  a  heaping  teaspoonful  of  sugar, 
a  small  teaspoonful  of  salt,  three  or  four  whole  cloves, 
and  a  small  piece  of  stick  cinnamon.  Boil  twenty 
minutes.  Add  a  teaspoonful  of  soda,  boil  one  minute 
and  strain. 


32 


THE   DEWEY   COOK  BOOK. 


Put  a  quart  of  milk  in  the  double  boiler,  thicken  with 
large  tablespoonful  of  corn  starch  dissolved  in  a  little 
of  the  milk.  Stir  and  boil  ten  minutes.  Add  a  heap- 
ing tablespoonful  of  butter,  salt  and  cayenne  pepper  to 
taste.  Do  not  put  the  two  mixtures  together  until 
ready  to  serve. 

MRS.  HENRY  COLTON. 


Spanish  Bean  Soup. 

Soak  one  pint  of  Black  Spanish  beans  (called  Mock 
Turtle  beans)  over  night.  Next  day  boil  them  three 
hours  in  two  quarts  of  water,  with  half  a  pound  of  salt 
pork,  or  what  is  better,  veal  or  beef,  part  fat  and  part 
lean.  Add  half  a  head  of  celery  and  a  little  cayenne; 
boil  a  half  hour  longer,  put  through  a  colander,  add  a 
little  powdered  clove  and  serve  with  slices  of  lemon. 

MISS  M.  D.  WHITE. 


Clam  Chowder. 

2  slices  salt  pork, fried  to  a  crisp.   6  medium  sized  potatoes. 

3  onions.  I  pint  of  clams. 
2  quarts  water.  cup  butter. 

i  pint  milk  or  cream.  Salt  and  pepper  to  taste. 

Chop  the  onions  and  potatoes  until  very  fine,  add  the 
water  and  let  them  boil  slowly  for  three  quarters  of  an 
hour.  Chop  the  clams  and  pork,  add  the  pork  fat  and 
clam  juice,  and  put  this  mixture  in  the  water  with  the 
potatoes  and  onions.  Let  this  boil  half  an  hour ;  add 
four  finely  rolled  crackers,  and  lastly  add  the  butter, 
milk  or  cream  and  the  salt  and  pepper.  Do  not  boil 
after  the  milk  has  been  added. 

MRS.  H.  J.  ANDREWS. 


SOUPS. 


33 


Corn  Chowder. 

Fry  in  butter  or  pork  fat  in  a  deep  kettle,  two  sliced 
onions  ;  when  tender  add  eight  potatoes  sliced  thin,  sea- 
son well  with  salt  and  pepper,  cover  with  hot  water  and 
cook  for  a  few  minntes.  Then  add  the  corn,  cut  and 
scraped  from  eight  good  sized  ears ;  add  more  water 
and  boil  half  an  hour.  Now  add  one  quart  of  boiling 
milk,  two  tablespoonfuls  of  butter  rubbed  smooth  with 
a  tablespoonful  of  flour,  add  further  seasoning  and 
allow  the  chowder  to  boil  up  twice. 

»  MISS  LUCY  BRADSHAW. 


Corn  Soup. 

One  dozen  ears  of  corn  grated.  Boil  in  one  quart  of 
milk  twenty  minutes.  Rub  together  one  tablespoonful 
of  butter  and  one  tablespoonful  of  flour,  add  pepper 
and  salt,  and  stir  into  the  soup  before  taking  from  the 
fire. 

MRS.  BOARDMAN . 


Corn  Soup. 

i  can  sweet  corn.  i  quart  boiling  water. 

3  tablespoonfuls  butter  rolled       i  quart  milk. 

'in  one  tablespoonful  2  eggs. 

flour.  Pepper  and  salt. 

1  teaspoonful  tomato  catsup. 

Drain  the  corn  and  chop  very  fine,  put  in  a  double 
boiler,  pour  on  it  the  boiling  water,  and  cook  steadily 
for  one  hour ;  rub  through  a  colander  to  take  out  all 
the  husks.  Return  it  to  the  fire,  season  with  salt  and 
pepper  and  boil  gently  for  three  minutes,  then  stir  in 
the  butter  and  flour.     Have  ready  the  boiling  milk, 


34 


THE    DEWEY   COOK  BOOK. 


mixed  with  the  beaten  eggs,  and  pour  all  into  the  soup, 
stirring  thoroughly  all  the  time.  Take  off  the  fire  and 
add  the  catsup  when  ready  to  serve. 


MBS.  EDWARD  DEWEY. 


Pepper  Pot. 


i  knuckle  veal. 

1  pound  honey  comb  tripe. 
3  quarts  cold  water. 

3^  pound  suet. 

2  tablespoonfuls  butter. 

i  tablespoonful  chopped  parsley, 
%  red  pepper. 


2  medium  sized  potatoes. 
I  pound  plain  tripe, 
i  bay  leaf. 

1  onion. 

2  tablespoonfuls  flour, 
i  teaspoonful  thyme. 
Salt  and  cayenne  to  taste. 


Wash  the  tripe  in  cold  water.  Put  in  a  kettle,  cover 
with  cold  water  and  boil  eight  hours ;  cook  the  day 
before  you  want  the  soup.  Put  the  knuckle  of  veal  in 
a  soup  kettle,  cover  with  the  water,  bring  slowly  to  a 
simmer,  skim  carefully.  Simmer  gently  three  hours, 
strain,  and  return  soup  to  the  kettle.  Cut  the  potatoes 
into  dice,  add  the  chopped  parsley,  the  thyme,  the 
chopped  red  pepper,  and  the  bay  leaf  to  the  soup.  Cut 
the  tripe  into  pieces  one  inch  square.  Cut  the  meat 
from  the  knuckle  into  small  pieces  ;  add  these  also  to 
the  soup  ;  place  on  the  fire,  and  when  at  boiling  point, 
season  with  the  salt  and  cayenne.  Rub  the  butter  and 
flour  together  and  stir  into  the  boiling  soup ;  add  the 
dumplings  made  as  follows  : — Chop  the  suet  fine,  meas- 
ure it,  take  double  the  quantity  of  flour,  a  quarter  of  a 
teaspoonful  of  salt,  mix  well  together,  moisten  with  ice 
water  (about  a  quarter  of  a  cup).  Form  into  tiny 
dumplings  about  the  size  of  a  marble,  put  into  the  soup, 
cook  for  fifteen  minutes  and  serve. 

MRS.  A.  K.  B. 


FISH  AND  OYSTERS. 


Fillet  of  Halibut. 

Three  pounds  of  halibut  from  the  fleshy  part.  Trim 
from  the  bone  and  slice  one-half  an  inch  thick.  Lay  on  a 
plate  and  cover  with  a  little  pepper, salt, lemon  juice  and 
small  pieces  of  onion.  Turn  another  plate  over  it  and 
let  it  stand  twenty  minutes.  Melt  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of 
butter,  dip  each  slice  in  it,  roll  and  pin  with  skewers. 
Lay  in  the  pan,  dredge  with  flour  and  bake  thirty  min- 
utes or  until  a  golden  brown. 

Cream  Sauce. — One  tablespoonful  of  butter,  one 
tablespoonful  of  flour,  half  a  pint  of  milk  or  cream, 
half  a  teaspoonful  of  salt,  and  a  saltspoonful  of  pepper. 
Serve  the  fish  with  a  garnish  of  potato  balls  and  parsley 
with  the  sauce  poured  around  it. 

MRS.  C.  H.  BALDWIN. 

Fish  Chops. 

i  can  salmon.  %  teaspoonful  salt. 

5  rolled,  shredded  wheat  bis-  ig  teaspoonful  paprica. 

cuits,  sifted.  I  well  beaten  egg. 

i  cup  white  sauce.  Macaroni, 
i  tablespoonful  water. 

Drain  off  the  oil  from  the  fish,  remove  the  skin  and 
bones.    Pick  the  salmon  very  fine  with  a  fork,  add  salt, 


36 


THE   DEWEY   COOK  BOOK. 


paprica,  and  rolled  and  sifted  shredded  wheat  biscuits, 
mix  thoroughly,  binding  together  with  the  white  sauce. 
Set  away  to  cool.  Shape  into  chops,  using  a  piece 
of  macaroni  in  the  small  end,  for  the  chop  bone,  roll  in 
the  egg  and  water,  then  in  the  sifted  biscuit  crumbs  and 
fry  in  deep  fat.  Garnish  with  parsley  and  serve  with 
quarters  of  lemon. 

*  Thick  White  Sauce. — Two  tablespoonfuls  of  but- 
ter, two  tablespoonfuls  of  flour,  one  cup  of  milk,  one- 
quarter  teaspoonful  salt  and  an  eighth  of  a  teaspoonful 
of  paprica.  Melt  butter  in  sauce  pan,  add  flour  and 
seasoning,  blend  thoroughly,  then  add  milk,  a  little  at 
a  time,  stirring  until  smooth,  and  cook  until  thick,  stir- 
ring slowly. 

MRS.  HIRAM  CARLETON. 

Turbot  a  la  Creme* 

Cook  five  pounds  of  fresh  fish,  whitefish  or  cod.  Re- 
move the  bones.  Take  one  quart  of  milk,  one  cup  of 
flour  smoothed  with  a  little  of  the  milk,  one  onion 
sliced,  a  sprig  of  thyme  and  one  of  parsley  tied  together  ; 
half  teaspoonful  of  white  pepper,  and  two  teaspoonfuls 
of  salt.  Put  into  the  milk,  the  onion,  thyme,  parsley, 
pepper  and  salt  and  let  it  scald  before  adding  the  flour. 
Boil  this  till  thick  as  paste.  Strain  through  a  sieve  and 
add  one-quarter  of  a  pound  of  butter  and  the  yolks  of 
three  eggs,  well  beaten.  Put  in  a  buttered  dish,  first  a 
layer  of  dressing,  then  one  of  fish,  then  of  dressing,  and 
so  on  until  the  dish  is  full,  having  the  dressing  last. 
Put  on  the  top,  first  bread  crumbs,  then  grated  cheese. 
Bake  half  an  hour. 

MRS.  E.  P.  SMILIE. 


FISH. 


37 


Scalloped  Fish* 

Boil  cod  or  any  other  firm  fish,  and  pick  to  pieces 
with  a  fork.  Make  a  white  sauce  of  a  tablespoonful  of 
butter,  a  tablespoonful  of  flour,  half  a  pint  of  milk 
boiled  until  thick,  and  seasoned  with  salt  and  pepper. 
Butter  a  pudding  dish,  place  in  a  layer  of  fish,  which 
dot  with  bits  of  butter,  squeeze  over  it  a  few  drops  of 
lemon  juice  and  moisten  with  a  tablespoonful  of  sauce. 
Proceed  in  the  same  manner  until  the  dish  is  full,  pour- 
ing the  remainder  of  the  sauce  on  the  top  layer,  strew- 
ing it  with  fine  bread  crumbs,  and  putting  on  bits  of 
butter.  Cover  the  dish,  bake  half  an  hour,  uncover  and 
brown. 

MRS.  COLTON. 

Fish  Balls, 


i  beaten  egg. 

%  cup  melted  butter. 

A  little  pepper  and  salt. 


i  quart  of  chopped  boiled  po- 
tatoes . 

1  tablespoonful  salt  codfish, 

shredded  fine. 

2  tablespoonfuls  pulverized 

dry  bread  crumbs. 

Roll  this  into  sixteen  balls,  roll  the  balls  in  flour  and 
fry  in  a  kettle  of  very  hot  lard,  with  basket  if  one 
chooses. 

MRS.  HENRY  COLTON. 

Fish  Balls* 


Butter  size  of  waluut. 
Pinch  of  pepper. 
Salt,  if  necessary. 


i  pint  mashed  potatoes  (with 
milk). 

3^  pint  freshened,  shredded 

codfish 
i  beaten  egg. 

Mix  well  together,  roll  in  egg,  then  in  crumbs,  fry  in 
deep  fat. 

MRS.  J.  A.  DE  BOER. 


38 


THE   DEWEY   COOK  BOOK. 


Creamed  Oysters, 

Bring  one  pint  of  cream  to  a  boil,  stir  into  it  slowly 
half  a  tablespoonful  of  butter  into  which  a  heaping  tea- 
spoonful  of  flour  has  been  rubbed.  Season  with  salt 
and  pepper.  When  slightly  thickened  add  one  pint  of 
oysters,  and  let  them  become  heated  through.  Serve 
on  hot  buttered  toast. 

MRS.  E.  D.  B. 

Oyster  Omelet* 

Heat  one  pint  of  oysters  to  the  boiling  point  in  their 
own  liquor.  Add  a  large  tablespoonful  of  butter,  mix 
with  one  even  tablespoonful  of  flour.  Season  with  salt 
and  pepper.  Beat  six  eggs,  add  three  tablespoonfuls  of 
water.  Put  a  tablespoonful  of  butter  in  a  hot  omelet 
pan ;  when  white  and  frothy,  pour  the  eggs  into  it. 
Shake  over  the  fire  until  the  eggs  begin  to  thicken,  then 
add  the  oysters.  Roll  up  the  omelet,  turn  on  to  a  hot 
platter,  and  serve  at  once. 

G.  R.  H. 

Oyster  Omelet* 

Stew  one  dozen  oysters  in  their  own  liquor,  if  possi- 
ble, if  not  use  a  little  water.  Roll  two  or  three  lumps 
of  butter  the  size  of  a  butternut  in  flour,  add  to  the 
oysters,  letting  them  come  to  a  boil.  Season  with  salt 
and  pepper.  Take  out  the  o}^sters  and  chop  them  and 
set  them  back  on  the  stove.  Beat  four  eggs  very  light, 
add  two  teaspoonfuls  of  cream  or  milk,  then  stir  in  the 
oysters.  Fry  half  at  a  time,  remove  to  a  hot  platter, 
pour  over  the  sauce,  and  serve  hot. 

MRS.  W.  A.  BRIGGS. 


OYSTERS. 


39 


Little  Pigs  in  Blankets* 

Season  large  oysters  with  salt  and  pepper ;  cut  fat 
pork  or  bacon  into  thin  slices,  wrap  an  oyster  in  each 
slice,  and  fasten  with  a  little  wooden  skewer.  Cook 
just  long  enough,  in  a  frying  pan,  to  crisp  the  bacon  or 
pork  (about  two  minutes).  Place  on  slices  of  toast 
that  have  been  cut  into  small  pieces,  and  served.  Do 
not  remove  the  skewers  until  placed  on  the  toast.  This 
is  a  nice  relish  for  lunch  or  tea. 

MRS.  F.  H.  MERRILL. 

Oyster  Rarebit* 

Parboil  three  quarters  of  a  cup  of  oysters,  from  which 
the  tough  muscle  has  been  removed,  and  drain ;  reserve 
the  liquor.  Melt  one  tablespoonful  of  butter,  add  half 
a  pound  of  cheese,  broken  into  small  pieces,  one  salt- 
spoonful  of  salt,  and  a  few  grains  of  cayenne.  Beat 
the  yolks  of  two  eggs,  mix  with  the  oyster  liquor,  and 
add  gradually  to  the  melted  cheese ;  add  the  oysters^ 
and  serve  at  once  on  hot  toast. 

MISS.  E.  M.  BAILEY. 

Pickled  Oysters* 

Take  two  quarts  of  oysters,  stew  in  their  own  liquor 
until  they  begin  to  curl ;  drain  and  save  the  liquor.  To 
a  small  cup  ot  vinegar  add  a  cup  of  the  oyster  liquor, 
one  dozen  whole  cloves,  one  half  dozen  whole  pepper- 
corns, a  dash  of  cayenne  and  salt  to  taste.  Boil  up 
once  and  pour  over  the  oysters,  which  have  ready  in  a 
glass  jar.  Seal  tightly.  Will  be  ready  for  use  in  two 
days.    Will  keep  in  a  cool  place  a  week  or  more. 

MRS.  P.  J.  BLACK  WELL. 


MEATS,  HOT  AND  COLD. 


Stewed  Brisket  of  Beef. 

Put  four  or  five  pounds  of  brisket  (or  foreshoulder) 
into  a  kettle  and  cover  with  water.  Take  off  the  scum 
as  it  rises.  Let  it  simmer  gently  two  hours,  take  it 
from  the  pot,  and  brown  it  with  butter  in  a  spider. 
When  browned  on  every  side  return  to  the  pot  and 
simmer  gently  for  two  hours  more.  Add  water  if  it 
boils  away.  Put  in  a  carrot,  a  turnip  or  two  cut  small, 
an  onion,  a  few  cloves,  salt  and  pepper.  Half  an  hour 
before  dinner  add  catsup.  To  serve  it,  lay  the  beef  on 
a  dish  and  strew  capers  over  it.  The  water  in  which 
it  is  stewed  is  a  nice  soup,  and  if  not  brown  enough 
can  be  made  so  with  burnt  sugar. 

MRS.  E.  P.  JEWETT. 

Roast  Lamb* 

Wash,  pepper  and  salt  the  meat,  put  into  a  baking 
pan,  cover  with  sliced  onions.    Baste  frequently. 

MRS.  C.  A.  GALE. 

Chicken,  Baltimore  Style. 

Split  a  small  spring  chicken  down  the  back,  as  for 
broiling.     Remove  the  breast  bone  and  cut  off  the  pin- 


MEATS,  HOT  AND  COLD. 


41 


ions.  Cut  into  four  pieces,  season  with  salt  and  pep- 
per; dip  them  in  egg  and  bread  crumbs.  Place  them 
in  a  pan,  and  pour  over  each  piece  enough  melted 
butter  to  moisten  it,  then  roast  in  the  oven  eighteen  or 
twenty  minutes.    Serve  with  a  cream  sauce. 

MRS.  C.  H.  MORE. 

Steak  with  Dressing;, 

Three  pounds  of  beef  from  the  round,  cut  thick. 
Take  a  heaping  pint  of  bread  crumbs,  season  well  with 
salt,  pepper  and  two  tablespoonfuls  of  melted  butter, 
spread  the  dressing  on  the  beef,  roll  it  up  close,  and 
tie  it  carefully.  Wrap  it  in  a  buttered  cloth  and  steam 
it  two  hours  and  a  quarter.  Or  if  preferred,  bake  it, 
by  putting  a  little  butter  with  a  little  water  and  basting 
the  steak  with  this  liquid.  Do  not  let  it  bake  too 
brown.  If  oven  is  too  hot  cover  the  steak  with  a  tin 
pan  or  cover.    Is  nice  sliced  cold. 

MRS.  C.  H.  MORE. 

Hamburg  Steak. 

Chop  one  pound  of  lean  raw  meat  very  fine,  remove 
all  the  fibre  possible.  To  this  add  half  a  teaspoonful  of 
onion  juice,  half  a  teaspoonful  of  salt,  quarter  of  a  tea- 
spoonful  of  pepper,  one  egg,  and  a  dash  of  nutmeg. 
Make  into  round  flat  cakes,  dredge  them  with  flour  and 
fry  in  butter  and  lard  mixed. 

MRS.  C.  H.  MORE. 

Smothered  QttafL 

Dress  the  quail  as  for  roasting,  omitting  the  salt  pork, 
put  butter,  salt,  and  pepper  in  the  bottom  of  a  pot,  lay 
in  the  quail.    Cook  them  three  quarters  of  an  hour. 


42 


THE  DEWEY  COOK  BOOK. 


They  should  be  covered  with  a  plate  laid  tightly  upon 
them.  Watch  closely,  turn  frequently  to  prevent  burn- 
ing. When  brown  add  a  little  flour,  with  a  very  little 
water,  to  the  gravy  in  the  bottom  of  the  pot.  Serve  the 
quail  on  hot  toast  with  the  gravy  poured  over  all. 

MISS  M.  D.  WHITE. 

Grandma's  Parsnip  Stew* 

Fry  six  slices  of  salt  pork  in  a  kettle,  add  to  it  two 
quarts  of  boiling  water,  one  teaspoonful  of  salt,  one 
quarter  of  a  teaspoonful  of  black  pepper.  Slice  six 
medium  sized  potatoes,  and  six  parsnips,  and  boil  ten 
minutes  before  adding  the  dumplings,  which  should 
cook  uncovered  fifteen  minutes ;  turn  over  and  cook  five 
minutes.  Or  take  four  pounds  of  beef  shank,  put  on  in 
two  quarts  of  cold  water,  simmer  slowly  four  hours,  add 
more  water  as  it  boils  away.  Remove  the  meat,  salt 
the  broth  and  proceed  as  with  the  pork. 

B. 

Mock  Terrapin* 

Use  cold  baked  or  fried  liver,  taking  care  not  to  use 
any  that  is  dry  or  hard.  Cut  in  dice  and  dust  thickly 
with  flour.  For  a  heaping  pint  use  a  teaspoonful  of 
mixed  mustard,  one-quarter  of  a  teaspoonful  of  cayenne 
pepper,  two  hard  boiled  eggs  chopped  fine,  butter  size 
of  an  egg,  one  teacupful  of  water.  Let  boil  together  a 
minute  or  two.  Serve. 

MRS.  EDWARD  DEWEY. 

Boiled  Ham* 

Wash  a  ten  pound  ham,  and  soak  over  night  in  enough 
water  to  cover,  and  to  which  a  cup  of  strong  vinegar 


MEATS,  HOT  AND  COLD. 


43 


has  been  added.  In  the  morning  place  in  just  enough 
boiling  water  to  cover  the  ham.  Add  one  quart  of 
sweet  cider.  Simmer  gently  for  three  hours.  Then  re- 
move the  skin,  place  in  a  baking  pan  with  the  fat  side 
up.  Stick  in  the  ham  a  dozen  cloves,  baste  with  sugar 
and  cider  and  bake  until  a  nice  brown. 

G.  R.  H. 


Mock  Pigeon* 

To  serve  as  an' entree  or  cold.  Take  pieces  of  beef- 
steak the  size  of  two  hands,  not  exceeding  half  an  inch 
in  thickness.  Make  a  dressing  of  crumbs  of  bread, 
pepper,  salt,  powdered  cloves  or  sweet  marjoram.  Fill 
the  pieces  of  steak  with  the  dressing.  Sew  them  up 
and  tie  them  at  each  end.  Stew  them  as  you  would 
pigeon. 

MRS.  E.  P.  JEWETT. 


Tripe  a  la  Creole, 


%  pound  honeycomb  tripe. 

i  tablespoonful  butter. 

3^  small  raw  onion. 

I  bay  leaf. 

%  teaspoonful  salt. 


i  cup  tomatoes  (stewed) . 

1  tablespoonful  flour. 
4  pepper  corns. 

2  cloves. 

i  even  saltspoonful  cayenne. 


Melt  the  butter,  add  onion  and  spices,  the  flour,  the 
tomatoes,  and  cook  for  ten  minutes.  Strain  and  add 
tripe,  cut  in  small  strips. 

Note  : — Tripe  should  be  boiled  three  hours. 

Note  : — If  desired  dilute  with  stock. 

MRS.  MOREIS  F.  ATKINS. 


44  THE   DEWEY  COOK  BOOK. 

Supper  Dish  of  VeaL 

Boil  a  veal  shank  and  bone  until  the  liquor  will  make 
a  jelly  when  cold.  Season  well  with  pepper  and  salt. 
Parboil  veal  sweet  breads,  dry  them  on  a  cloth,  roll 
in  flour,  and  fry  them  to  a  delicate  brown.  Cut  into 
pieces  suitable  for  one  person.  While  hot,  pour  the 
hot  liquor  of  the  meat  over  them,  laying  each  piece  sep- 
arate. There  should  be  enough  liquor  to  cover  them. 
When  cold  cut  out  the  pieces  and  if  right  they  will  be 
surrounded  by  a  fine  sparkling  jelly. 


MRS.  E.  P.  JEWETT. 


Creamed  Chicken* 


1  pint  rich  milk  and  cream. 

2  tablespoonfuls  flour. 


1  pint  shredded  chicken. 

2  tablespoonfuls  melted  butter. 
Salt  and  pepper  to  taste. 

Mix  all  well  together,  and  put  into  a  baking  dish 
with  cracker  crumbs  on  top. 


MRS.  CHARLES  DEWEY. 


Veal  Loaf. 


lbs.  chopped  veal,  choice 
part  of  the  leg. 

i  slice  chopped  pork. 

A  handful  small  crackers,  pow- 
dered line. 


2  eggs. 

Butter,  the  size  of  an  egg. 
Salt  and  pepper. 


Mix  all  together,  pack  in  a  bread  pan,  and  put  bits 
of  butter  and  bread  crumbs  over  it.  Bake  two  hours. 
When  cold,  slice  thin. 


MRS.  GEO.  W.  WILDER. 


Veal  Loaf* 

Chop  fine  three  pounds  of  raw  veal,  one-quarter 
pound  fat  salt  pork,  add  pepper,  salt  and  sage  to  taste, 


MEATS,    HOT  AND  COLD. 


45 


three  crackers,  rolled ;  three  eggs.  Mix  well.  Bake 
an  hour  and  a  half.  When  done  turn  over  and  leave 
in  the  pan  until  cold. 

MRS.  C.  A.  SPARROW. 

Veal  Loaf* 

3  cups  uncooked  veal.  i  cup  butter. 

%  cup  "grape  nut.11  i  cup  water, 

i  egg.  Celery  salt,  salt  and  pepper. 

Soak  the  "grape  nut*'  half  an  hour  in  the  cup  of 
water.  Chop  the  veal  very  fine.  Mix  all  together 
thoroughly.  Over  the  loaf  pour  water  to  the  depth  of 
half  an  inch,  and  bake  three-quarters  of  an  hour. 

MRS.  T.  C.  PHINNEV. 

Sausage. 

For  each  pound  of  sausage  meat  add  three  heaping 
teaspoonfuls  of  sage,  one  and  one-half  even  teaspoonfuls 
of  salt,  and  one  scant  teaspoonful  of  pepper.  Used  for 
many  years  in  the  family  of  J.  R.  Langdon. 

Sausage* 

To  every  ten  pounds  of  meat,  add  one  ounce  of  sage, 
two  ounces  of  salt,  half  an  ounce  ot  pepper  and  a  tea- 
spoonful  of  ginger. 

MISS  M.  D.  WHITE. 

Bearnaise  Sauce* 

As  an  addition  to  a  broiled  steak  this  sauce  has  no 
equal.  Put  into  a  small,  flat,  covered  saucepan  four 
teaspoonfuls  of  vinegar,  a  spoonful  minced  onion, 
parsley,  and  a  little  pepper, simmer  to  half  the  amount; 
take  from  the  fire,  strain,  and  add  the  yolks  of  three 


46 


THE  DEWEY  COOK  BOOK. 


eggs,  stirring  over  the  fire  until  it  thickens ;  remove 
again,  add  one  and  a  half  ounces  of  butter  cut  in  bits, 
and  stir  again  over  a  slow  fire ;  withdraw  again  and 
add  the  same  quantity  of  butter. 


ENTREES. 


Chicken  Patties, 

Chop  fine  the  meat  of  a  cold  chicken  and  season  well. 
Make  a  large  cup  of  rich  drawn  butter  and  while  on 
the  fire  stir  in  two  hard  boiled  eggs  minced  very  fine, 
a  little  chopped  parsley,  then  the  chicken  meat.  Have 
ready  some  patty  shells  of  good  puff  paste,  fill  with  the 
mixture  and  set  in  the  oven  to  heat. 

MRS.  E.  P.  SMILIE. 

Chicken  Croquettes, 

%  lb.  chicken  chopped  very 
fine. 

3^  saltspoonful  pepper. 

Make  one  pint  of  very  thick  cream  sauce.  When 
thick  add  one  beaten  egg.  Mix  the  sauce  with  the 
chicken,  using  only  enough  to  make  it  as  soft  as  can  be 
handled.  Spread  on  a  shallow  plate  to  cool.  Shape 
into  rolls.  Roll  in  fine  bread  crumbs,  dip  in  beaten 
egg,  then  bread  crumbs  again.  Fry  in  hot  fat.  Serve 
with  jelly. 

MRS.  C.  H.  MORE. 


>  teaspoonlul  salt, 
teaspoonful  lemon  juice. 


4S 


THE  DEWEY  COOK  BOOK. 


2  cups  chopped  meat. 

2  cups  hot  milk. 

I  teaspoonful  melted  butter. 


Meat  Croquettes* 

2  cups  bread  crumbs. 
Yolk  of  one  egg. 
Salt  and  pepper. 

Beat  the  yolk  of  the  egg,  add  the  milk,  the  melted 

butter,  bread  crumbs,  salt,  pepper,  and  meat.  Form 

into  small  flat  cakes  and  fry  in  hot  butter. 

MRS.  C.  H.  HEATON. 

Veal  Croquettes* 

Take  very  finely  minced  veal,  moisten  it  with  cream 
and  a  beaten  egg  ;  season  with  salt,  sweet  marjoram  and 
a  little  mace,  form  into  small  cones,  crumb  the  outside 
and  fry. 

MISS  JOSEPHINE  WOOD. 

Rice  Croquettes. 

Steam  one  scant  cup  of  rice  in  one  pint  of  boiling 
water  until  very  soft.  Add  while  hot,  one  teaspoonful 
of  butter,  two  tablespoonfuls  of  sugar,  the  yolk  of  one 
egg,  well  beaten,  and  a  little  more  milk  if  it  needs  more 
moisture.  Cool,  shape  in  ovals,  roll  in  crumbs,  dip  in 
egg,  roll  in  crumbs  again  and  fry.     Serve  with  jelly. 

MRS.  C.  H.  MOKE. 

Meat  and  Rice  Croquettes* 

2  cups  boiled  rice.  I  cup  milk. 

2  cups  finely  chopped  and  I  teaspoonful  salt. 

cooked  meat.  2  eggs. 

4  tablespoonfuls  melted  butter. 
A  little  pepper. 

Put  the  milk  on  to  boil,  add  the  meat,  rice  and  sea- 
soning. When  boiling  add  the  eggs,  well  beaten,  and 
stir  one  minute.  After  cooling,  shape,  roll  in  cracker 
crumbs, , egg  and  crumb  again.  Fry  in  frying  basket  in 
deep  fat. 

MISS  GERTRUDE  MEINECKE. 


ENTREES. 


49 


Potato  Croquettes* 

2  cups  mashed  potatoes.  2  tablespoonfuls  cream. 

1  tablespoonful  grated  onion.       1  tablespoonful  chopped 

Yolks  two  eggs.  parsley. 

Butter  the  size  of  a  walnut.  saltspoonful  cayenne. 

Salt. 

Beat  the  yolks  until  light,  add  them  to  the  potatoes, 
then  add  the  other  ingredients.  Mix  and  turn  into 
small  saucepan,  stir  over  the  fire  until  the  mixture 
leaves  the  side  of  the  pan.  Take  from  the  fire,  cool, 
and  form  into  croquettes.  Roll  first  in  egg,  then  in 
bread  crumbs,  and  fry  in  boiling  fat,  in  a  basket.  This 
makes  twelve  croquettes. 

MES.  HIRAM  CARLETON. 


Cream  Sauce* 


1  pint  of  milk  or  cream. 

4  heaping  tablespoonfuls  flour. 

%,  saltspoonful  pepper. 


2  even  tablespoonfuls  butter. 
%  tablespoonful  salt. 


Melt  the  butter,  add  the  pepper  and  salt,  then  the 
flour.  Stir  until  smooth.  Add  gradually  the  heated 
cream  or  milk. 


MRS.  C  H.  MORE. 


Thick  "White  Sauce* 


2  tablespoonfuls  butter. 
1  cup  milk. 

%  teaspoonful  paprica. 


2  tablespoonfuls  flour. 
34  teaspoonful  salt. 


Melt  butter  in  sauce  pan,  add  the  flour  and  seasoning, 
blend  thoroughly  together,  then  add  the  milk  a  little  at 
a  time,  stir  until  smooth,  and  cook  until  thick,  stirring 
slowly. 


MRS.  HIRAM  CARLETON. 


THE   DEWEY   COOK  BOOK. 


Thin  White  Sauce* 

Use  one  tablespoonful  of  butter  and  one  tablespoon- 
ful  of  flour.  Cream  sauce  is  made  in  the  same  manner, 
using  thin  cream  in  place  of  the  milk. 

MRS.  HIRAM  CARLETON. 

Escalloped  Corn* 

Butter  the  dish  in  which  the  corn  is  to  be  cooked, 
cover  the  bottom  with  bread  or  cracker  crumbs,  rolled 
fine.  Add  a  layer  of  corn,  boiled,  and  sliced  from  the 
cob,  alternate  the  crumbs  and  corn,  until  you  have  three 
or  four  layers,  the  crumbs  being  the  top  layer.  Sprinkle 
each  layer  with  salt  and  pepper  and  bits  of  butter. 
Moisten  with  a  little  milk.    Bake  about  twenty  minutes. 

MRS.  ROBERT  WILKINSON. 

Rice  Omelet. 

Beat  six  eggs  thoroughly,  add  six  tablespoonfuls  of 
sweet  milk,  one  cup  of  soft  boiled  rice  and  salt.  Fry 
in  small  omelet. 

MRS.  T.  C.  PHINNEY. 

Baked  Bananas. 

6  bananas,  peeled  and  cut         4  teaspoonfuls  water. 

lengthwise.  1  teaspoonful  butter. 

4  teaspoonfuls  sugar.  6  whole  cloves. 

2  heaping  teaspoonfuls  lemon 

juice. 

Lay  them  in  a  dish  and  bake  thirty  minutes. 

MRS.  HIRAM  CARLETON. 

Baked  Bananas* 

Remove  the  skins  from  six  bananas,  cut  in  halves 
lengthwise.    Mix  one  tablespoonful  of  melted  butter 


ENTREES. 


with  three  tablespoonfuls  of  sugar  and  the  juice  of  one 
lemon.  Bake  in  a  moderate  oven  twenty  minutes  and 
baste  the  bananas  with  the  above  mixture. 

MISS  E.  M.  BAILEY. 

Baked  Bananas* 

Halve  bananas  lengthwise,  sprinkle  with  powdered 
sugar,  lemon  juice  and  butter.  Bake  twenty-five  min- 
utes.   Serve  hot  in  the  dish  in  which  they  are  baked. 

MRS.  HENRY  COLTON. 

Macaroni  and  Cheese* 

Break  and  wash  twelve  sticks  of  macaroni,  boil  hard 
for  twrenty  minutes  wTith  one  tablespoonful  of  salt  in 
two  quarts  of  water,  uncovered.  Drain,  and  add  to  the 
macaroni  a  cream  sauce  made  as  follows  : — One  cup  of 
milk,  a  teaspoonful  of  flour,  and  a  tablespoonful  of 
butter.  Melt  the  butter,  add  the  flour,  stir  until 
smooth,  add  gradually  the  milk,  let  it  boil  up  once,  add 
salt  and  pepper  to  taste.  Turn  the  mixture  of  maca- 
roni and  sauce  into  a  buttered  escallop  dish.  Have 
ready  mixed  a  cupful  of  grated  cheese  and  half  a  cupful 
of  bread  crumbs,  sprinkle  it  over  the  macaroni, 
place  in  the  oven,  and  bake  about  twenty  minutes. 

MRS.  H.  S.  COLTON. 

Potato  Apple* 

To  one  pint  of  mashed  potato  add  two  tablespoonfuls 
grated  cheese,  salt,  cayenne,  and  the  yolks  of  two  eggs. 
Shape,  roll  in  flour,  egg  and  crumbs,  fry  in  deep  hot 
fat  in  a  wire  basket.  Make  dents  in  the  top  and  bot- 
tom of  the  apples  before  frying,  and  when  nicely 
browned,  stick  a  clove  in  the  top  for  a  stem  and  an- 
other in  the  bottom. 

MRS.  A.  M.  ATKINS. 


THE   DEWEY   COOK  BOOK. 


Yorkshire  Pudding;. 

Mix  five  spoonfuls  of  flour  with  a  quart  of  milk> 
and  four  eggs  well  beaten.  Bake  the  pudding  under 
the  meat.  When  brown  on  one  side  turn  the  other 
side  up  and  brown  that.  It  will  take  about  three- 
quarters  of  an  hour.  To  be  eaten  with  meat.  Cut  in 
squares  to  serve. 

MRS.  R.  P.  J.  BURGESS. 

Yorkshire  Pudding* 

Beat  three  eggs  very  light.  Add  one  scant  teaspoon- 
ful  of  salt  and  one  pint  of  milk.  Pour  half  a  cup  of 
this  mixture  on  two-thirds  of  a  cup  of  flour,  and  stir  to 
a  smooth  paste.  Add  the  remainder  of  the  mixture  and 
beat  well.  Bake  in  hot  gem  pans  forty-five  minutes ► 
Baste  with  the  drippings  from  the  beef.  This  is  a 
more  convenient  way  than  to  bake  in  the  pan  under  the 
beef,  and  gives  more  crust.  Serve  as  a  garnish  for 
roast  beef. 

THE  BOSTON  COOK  BOOK. 

Cheese  Straws* 

I  ounce  flour.  |  Yolk  of  one  egg. 

3  ounces  grated  cheese.  i  Butter  the  size  of  an  egg. 

i  teaspoonful  salt.  |  A  pinch  of  cayenne. 

Mix  flour,  cayenne,  cheese  and  salt  together,  and 
moisten  with  the  egg.  Mix  all  to  a  smooth  paste,  roll 
out  on  a  board  and  cut  into  strips  an  eighth  of  an  inch 
wide,  five  inches  long,  and  an  eighth  of  an  inch  thick. 
Place  these  on  sheets  or  pans  in  an  oven  (2400  F.)  and 
bake  until  brown.  Put  the  straws  through  rings  which 
must  be  an  eighth  of  an  inch  wide. 

MISS  ALICE  E.  NEWELL. 


ENTREES. 


53 


Cheese  Straws* 

Take  well  beaten  biscuit  dough,  roll  out  as  thin  as 
possible  and  sprinke  a  thick  layer  of  grated  cheese  over 
it.  Fold  the  dough  together,  roll  it  again  very  thin  and 
sprinkle  with  grated  cheese.  Repeat  this  three  times ; 
then  roll  it  out  again  and  cut  into  narrow  strips  as  long 
as  the  middle  finger.  Bake  a  light  brown  in  a  slow 
oven. 

MRS.  A.  W.  SLOCUM. 

Stuffed  Olives 

Remove  the  stones  from  olives,  with  a  corer.  Then 
prepare  the  stuffing  with  the  yolks  of  two  hard  boiled 
eggs,  pounded  smooth,  one  ounce  of  butter,  the  juice  of 
half  a  lemon ;  stir  together.  Fill  the  olives  with  the 
preparation  and  place  one  caper  on  top  of  each  olive. 
Let  stand  on  ice  thirty  minutes,  to  harden,  then  serve. 

MRS.  A.  W.  SLOCUM. 

Salted  Almonds* 

Blanche  two  cups  of  almonds.  Boil  eight  minutes  in 
water,  with  one  cup  of  salt.  Saute  quickly  in  one 
tablespoonful  of  butter  for  each  cup  of  almonds.  The 
almonds  do  not  become  rancid,  and  are  not  covered 
with  salt  crystals. 

MISS  ELLA  M.  BAILEY. 


PIES. 


Mock  Cherry  Pic. 

i  cup  cranberries.  I  cup  sugar. 

i  cup  hot  water.  %  cup  stoned  raisins. 

i  tablespoonful  flour. 

Put  this  mixture  on  the  stove  and  cook  until  the 
berries  are  done,  stirring  all  the  time.  When  the  mix- 
ture is  cool  add  a  teaspoonful  of  vanilla,  this  gives  the 
cherry  taste.    Bake  with  two  crusts. 


MISS  MARY  G.  DEWEY. 


Mock  Cherry  Pie. 


i  cup  raw  cranberries. 


raisins. 


I  teaspoonful  vanilla. 

Add  small  pieces  of  butter. 


I  cup  sugar, 
i  cup  water. 

i  tablespoonful  flour  sprinkled 
on  top. 


MRS.  C.  A.  SPARROW. 


Cranberry  Pie. 


1  qt.  cranberries  chopped  fine. 

2  cups  sugar. 

Salt,  nutmeg  and  cinnamon  to 
taste. 


1  cup  molasses. 

2  tablespoonfuls  cornstarch 

wet  in  a  little  cold  water. 


Pour  one  and  a  half  cups  of  boiling  water  on  the 
cornstarch,  stirring  until  smooth,  add  to  the  above  mix- 
ture. Add  spice  to  taste.    This  will  make  three  pies. 


MISS  M.  D.  WHITE. 


pies.  55 

Cranberry  Pie* 

One  cup  of  cranberries  and  half  a  cup  of  raisins 
chopped  together,  add  one  cup  of  sugar.  Bake  with 
two  crusts. 

MRS.  C.  L.  SMITH. 

Butternut  Pie* 

One  cup  of  chopped  butternut  meats,  added  to  a  rich 
custard  filling.  Bake  in  one  crust  in  a  deep  pie  plate. 
Very  rich  and  delicious  for  those  who  like  the  butternut 
flavor. 

MRS.  HENRY  COLTON. 

Raisin  Pie* 


i  cup  chopped  raisins. 
I  cracker,  rolled. 
A  pinch  of  salt. 
Juice  of  half  a  lemon. 


i  egg,  beaten, 
i  cup  sugar, 
i  teaspoonful  butter, 
i  cup  water. 


Boil  the  raisins  in  the  water  for  five  minutes,  add  the 
other  ingredients.    Bake  with  two  crusts. 

Raisin  Pie* 


I  cup  raisins. 
I  cup  cold  water. 
A  little  lemon  juice. 

Bake  with  two  crusts. 


i  cup  sugar. 

i  teaspoonful  cornstarch. 
A  small  piece  butter. 


MRS.  HENRY  COLTON. 

Boiled  Cider  Pie* 


%  cup  sugar. 

6  tablespoonfuls  water. 

%  teaspoonful  flour. 


3  tablespoonfuls  cider, 
i  egg,  well  beaten. 
Flavor-lemon,  wine  or  nutmeg. 


Let  the  sugar,  cider,  and  half  the  water  come  to  a 
boil.  Add  the  well  beaten  egg,  the  flour  mixed  in  the 
other  half  of  the  water,  and  the  flavoring.  Bake  with 
two  crusts. 


E.  D. 


56 


THE   DEWEY   COOK  BOOK. 


Washington  Pie, 


Butter  size  of  an  egg. 
i  cup  flour. 


1  cup  sugar. 
4  eggs. 

2  teaspoonfuls  baking  powder. 
Bake  in  sheets  in  round  tins. 

Filling. — One  raw  apple  grated,  one  cup  of  sugar, 
one  egg,  juice  and  peel  of  one  lemon.  Cook  until  it 
thickens. 


MRS.  J.  W.  CLARK. 


Cream  Pie  or  Cake* 


2  cups  sugar. 

2  teaspoonfuls  cream  of  tartar, 
i  teaspoonful  soda. 


2  cups  flour. 
6  eggs. 

2  tablespoonfuls  water. 


Mix  the  flour,  sugar,  and  cream  of  tartar  together, 
add  the  eggs,  well  beaten.  Dissolve  the  soda  in  the 
water.     Bake  in  shallow  pans. 


MRS.  R.  P.  J.  BURGESS. 


Whipped  Cream  Pie* 

Make  a  shell  of  delicate  pastry  and  fill  with  the  fol- 
lowing mixture  :  Whip  half  a  pint  of  cream,  sweeten 
and  flavor  with  vanilla.  Add  a  meringue  made  of  the 
beaten  whites  of  two  eggs,  and  two  tablespoonfuls  of 
sugar.    Brown  lightly  with  a  shovel  of  hot  coals. 


MRS.  EDWARD  DEWEY. 


Cream  Pie* 


3  eggs. 

i  teaspoonful  cream  of  tartar, 
i  cup  sugar. 


I     cups  flour. 
%  teaspoonful  soda  in  two 
teaspoonfuls  of  water. 


This  will  make  two  cakes.  Split  while  warm  and 
put  in  the  cream  . 

Cream  for  Filling  : — Boil  one  pint  of  milk.  Take 


PIES. 


57 


two  small  tablespoonfuls  of  cornstarch,  beaten  in  a  little 
milk,  add  two  eggs,  one  small  teacupful  of  sugar ;  when 
the  milk  boils  stir  them  in  slowly.  Take  off  the  fire 
and  add  half  a  cup  of  butter,  and  flavor  to  taste. 

MRS.  EDWARD  DEWEY. 

Cream  Pie* 

Pour  one  pint  of  cream  over  one  and  a  half  cups  of 
powdered  sugar,  and  one  teaspoonful  of  maple  sugar. 
Let  it  stand  while  the  whites  of  three  eggs  are  being 
beaten  to  a  stiff  froth,  add  this  to  the  cream  and  beat 
thoroughly.  Grate  a  little  nutmeg  on  the  mixture,  and 
bake  like  custard  pie,  but  not  quite  so  long. 

MRS.  CHARLES  DEWEY. 


Sour  Cream  Pie« 


i  cup  sour  cream. 

i  cup  raisins,  seeded  and 

chopped. 
A  little  salt  and  spice  to  taste. 


i  cup  sugar. 
Yolks  two  eggs. 


Bake  with  one  crust  and  frost  with  whites  of  eggs. 
This  can  be  made  with  all  sour  milk,  or  part  milk  and 
part  cream. 


Lemon  Pie. 

Line  a  plate  with  crust  and  bake.  Take  a  cup  of 
sugar,  three  eggs,  (saving  out  the  white  of  one) ,  one 
tablespoonful  of  butter,  three  tablespoonfuls  of  flour, 
one  cup  of  water,  juice  and  grated  rind  of  one  lemon. 
Mix,  and  cook  in  a  double  boiler  until  thick.  Pour 
into  the  crust  and  cool.  Then  frost  with  the  white  of 
the  egg  beaten  with  a  little  sugar.     Brown  slightly. 

MRS.  KATHERLNE  CHAPMAN. 


5« 


THE  DEWEY  COOK  BOOK. 


Lemon  Pie* 

Juice  and  rind  of  a  large  lemon,  i  scant  cup  of  sugar, 

i  dessertspoonful  cornstarch.  i  dessertspoonful  butter. 

Yolks  three  eggs.  I  cup  cold  water. 
White  one  egg. 

Put  the  juice  and  grated  rind  of  the  lemon  into  a  dish, 
add  a  scant  cup  of  sugar,  the  yolks  of  three  eggs,  the 
white  of  one,  and  a  dessertspoonful  of  butter,  stir  all 
well  together.  Put  a  dessertspoonful  of  cornstarch  into 
a  cup  of  cold  water,  place  on  the  fire  and  stir  until 
thick,  like  custard,  pour  this  into  the  other  mixture,  and 
beat  all  together.  Line  a  pie-plate  with  pie  crust, 
building  up  the  edge  with  three  or  four  layers  of  crust, 
wet  between  each  crust,  pour  in  the  mixture  and  bake. 
When  cooked  remove  from  the  oven  and  cover  with  a 
meringue,  made  of  the  whites  of  two  eggs  and  a  table- 
spoonful  of  sugar,  return  to  the  oven  and  brown. 

MRS.  E.  D.  BLACKWELL. 


Mince 

1  pound  raw  chopped  beef. 

2  lbs.  apples,  coarsely  chopped. 
2  quarts  sugar. 

%  pound  butter. 
%  pound  citron. 
%  pound  raisins. 
%  pound  currants. 
\%  tablespoonfuls  salt. 


Meat. 

i  pint  suet,  chopped  fine, 
i  pint  boiled  cider. 

1  gill  molasses. 

2  level  tablepoonfuls  cinnamon. 
I  level  tablespoonful  cloves. 

I  heaping  teaspoonful  mace, 
i  nutmeg,  grated. 


Use  two  kettles.  Cook  the  apples  in  sweet  cider 
until  an  amber  hue.  Into  the  other  kettle  put  the  meat 
and  all  of  the  other  ingredients,  except  the  spices,  and 
bring  to  a  boil,  then  add  the  apples  and  spices  and  cook 
a  few  minutes.    When  cold  add  a  pint  of  brandy. 

MISS.  M.  D.  WHITE. 


PIES. 


59 


Mince  Meat* 


3  pints  meat,  chopped  fine. 

4  cups  molasses. 

1  cup  boiled  cider. 

4^  teaspoonfuls  cinnamon. 

2  nutmegs. 


6  pints  apple,  chopped. 

2  cups  cider,  plain. 

3  cups  sugar, 
teaspoonfuls  cloves. 


4  teaspoonfuls  salt. 

Measure  meat  and  apples  after  chopping, 
slowly  two  hours. 


Cook 


MRS.  D.  S.  WHEATLEY. 


Mince  Meat. 


2  pounds  meat. 
4  pounds  sugar. 
%  pound  butter. 

3  teaspoonfuls  cloves. 

6  teaspoonfuls  cinnamon. 

4  nutmegs. 

3  glasses  wine. 


2%  pounds  sweet  apples. 

^  pound  suet. 

2  quarts  cider. 

6  teaspoonfuls  allspice. 

i  teaspoonful  pepper. 

i  glass  brandy. 

Salt  and  one  cracker. 


Raisins  stoned  and  chopped, 
and  lemon. 


Use 


if  desired,  citron 


MRS.  T.  J.  DEAVITT. 


HOT  PUDDINGS  AND  SAUCES. 


Indian  Pudding. 

Scald  six  tablespoonfuls  of  Indian  meal  in  one  quart 
of  skim  milk.  When  the  mixture  has  cooled,  add  half 
a  cup  of  sugar,  half  a  cup  of  molasses,  one  pint  of  cold 
milk,  half  a  teaspoonful  of  salt,  and  half  a  teaspoonful 
of  cinnamon.  Bake  very  slowly  three  hours.  If  neces- 
sary add  more  cold  milk  while  baking. 

MRS.  A.  N.  BLANCH  ARD. 

Indian  Meal  Pudding* 


3  pints  milk,  scalded. 

%  cup  meal  sifted  into  the  milk. 

i  teaspoonful  ginger. 

A  little  salt  and  butter. 


i  cup  molasses. 

%  cup  sugar. 

%  teaspoonful  cinnamon. 

MRS.  J.  V.  BROOKS. 


Boiled  Indian  Pudding* 

1  pint  milk.  2  eggs. 

2  small  tablespoonfuls  suet.         2  tablespoonfuls  molasses. 

teaspoonful  cinnamon.  %  teaspoonful  ginger. 

A  pinch  of  soda.  A  little  salt. 

Heat  the  milk,  add  the  soda,  pour  it  over  the  meal, 
stir  well.  Add  the  suet  powdered,  and  the  salt. 
When  cold  add  the  eggs  well  beaten,  the  molasses, 
spices,  and  beat  all  hard.    Steam  four  hours. 

MRS.  H.  S.  BOARDMAN. 


HOT  PUDDINGS. 


61 


Delicate  Indian  Pudding. 

1  quart  milk.  4  tablespoonfuls  sugar. 

2  heaping  tablespoonfuls  Indian    1  tablespoonful  butter. 

meal.  %  teaspoonful  ginger. 

1  teaspoonful  salt. 

3  eggs. 

Boil  the  milk  in  a  double  boiler,  sprinkle  the  meal 
into  it,  stirring  all  the  while.  Cook  twelve  minutes, 
stirring  often.  Beat  together  the  eggs,  salt,  sugar,  and 
half  a  teaspoonful  of  ginger.  Stir  the  butter  into  the 
meal  and  milk.  Pour  this  gradually  into  the  egg  mix- 
ture.   Bake  slowly  one  hour. 

MRS.  HARRY  COLTON. 

Date  Pudding* 

Stone  and  slice  one  pound  of  rather  moist  dates,  a 
quart  and  a  half  of  fine  bread  crumbs,  one-half  of  a 
pound  of  finely  chopped  suet  which  has  been  carefully 
washed.  In  a  teacup  and  a  half  of  sugar,  mix  one 
saltspoonful  of  salt,  one-half  of  a  nutmeg,  grated,  and 
one  teaspoonful  of  ground  cinnamon.  Beat  into  this 
four  eggs,  whites  and  yolks.  Mix  all  well  together. 
Put  into  a  mould  and  boil  for  three  hours.  Serve  with 
wine  sauce. 

MRS.  EDWARD  DEWEY. 

Steamed  Date  Pudding. 

Add  one-third  of  a  cup  of  melted  butter  to  one  cup 
each  of  milk  and  molasses.  Mix  and  sift  three  cups  of 
flour,  one  teaspoonful  of  soda,  and  one-half  teaspoonful 
each  of  salt,  cloves,  cinnamon  and  nutmeg.  Add  this 
to  the  first  mixture  with  three-quarters  of  a  pound  of 
dates,  stoned,  and  cut  into  small  pieces.  Steam  two 
and  a  half  hours  in  an  Angel  Cake  tin. 


62 


THE   DEWEY  COOK  BOOK. 


Egg  sauce  to  serve  with  it  : — Two  eggs  beaten 
very  light,  add  gradually  one  cup  of  sugar,  and  flavor 
to  taste. 

MISS  GERTRUDE  MEINECKE. 


Christmas  Plum  Pudding* 


I  pound  suet. 

i%  pounds  raisins. 

3^  lb.  candied  pee],  mixed 

orange,  lemon  and  citron. 
I  teaspoonful  cinnamon, 
i  scant  teaspoonful  allspice. 
%.  pound  flour. 


i  pound  white  sugar. 
3^  pound  currants. 
%  pound  bread  crumbs, 
i  teaspoonful  salt, 
i  teaspoonful  cloves. 
8  eggs. 


Chop  the  suet  fine,  stone  the  raisins,  wash  and  dry 
the  currants,  cut  the  candied  peel  into  small  pieces,  sift 
the  bread  crumbs,  and  mix  all  in  the  following  order  : — 
Flour,  salt,  spice,  sugar,  raisins,  orange  and  lemon 
peel,  citron,  bread  crumbs  and  currants.  Beat  the  eggs 
and  stir  for  twenty-five  minutes,  until  the  ingredients 
are  thoroughly  mixed.  Butter  the  mould  and  steam 
the  pudding  in  it  for  thirteen  hours.  Make  the  day  be- 
fore, and  steam  eight  or  nine  hours,  allowing  the  rest  of 
the  time  on  the  day  it  is  to  be  served.  Serve  with  wine 
sauce. 

MRS.  EDWARD  DEWEY. 


Plum  Pudding* 


[  loaf  baker's  bread, grated  fine, 
i  cup  flour, sifted  several  times, 
ij^  cups  molasses. 

pound  suet 
%  teaspoonful  salt. 


I  cup  chopped  raisins, 
i  cup  milk. 
3  eggs. 

i  teaspoonful  cinnamon, 
i  teaspoonful  soda. 


Steam  three  hours.    Serve  with  wine  sauce. 

MISS  M.  D.  WHITE. 


HOT  PUDDINGS. 


63 


Grandmother  Cushing's  Plum  Pudding;* 

2  quarts  milk.  j  3  cups  cracker  crumbs. 

1  pound  raisins,  stoned.  6  eggs. 

1  cup  sugar.  J  Salt  and  spice  to  taste. 

Steam  nine  hours.  After  cooking  an  hour  take  it 
from  the  fire,  stir  it  thoroughly,  add  some  cold  milk 
(this  makes  the  whey),  and  return  it  to  the  boiler. 
Serve  with  sour  sauce.  (This  recipe  was  original, 
and  never  has  been  in  print.) 


MRS.  GEO.  W.  WILDER. 

Suet  Pudding. 

1  cup  molasses.  1  cup  sweet. milk. 

1  cup  raisins.  1  cup  suet  (chopped  fine). 

1  egg.  1  teaspoonful  soda. 

3J4  cups  pastry  flour.  1  teaspoonful  cinnamon, 
teaspoonful  cloves. 

Steam  three  hours  and  a  half. 

Sauce  : — One  and  one-half  cups  of  sugar,  one-half 
a  cup  of  butter  and  one  egg.  Beat  together  and  pour 
on  a  pint  (or  more)  of  boiling  water ;  add  half  a  wine- 
glass of  brandy,  or  the  juice  of  three  oranges. 


MRS.  CHARLES  H.  MORE. 


Suet  Pudding. 


%  cup  chopped  suet. 
1  cup  chopped  raisins. 
3)2  cups  flour. 
Spices. 


1  cup  molasses. 
1  cup  sweet  milk. 
1  teaspoonful  soda. 
A  pinch  salt. 


Steam  three  hours  and  a  half. 

Sauce  : — Four  level  tablespoonfuls  of  butter,  one 
cup  of  sifted  powdered  sugar,  the  white  of  one  egg, 
one-half  a  teaspoonful  of  lemon  extract.  Scald  the 
bowl  and  spoon,  cream  the  butter,  add  the  sugar  a  little 
at  a  time    beating  until  light  and  smooth,    add  the 


64 


THE  DEWEY  COOK  BOOK. 


whites  of  the  eggs  beaten  stiff.  Add  flavoring  and 
beat  well.  Pile  lightly  in  a  dish  and  sprinkle  with 
nutmeg. 


MRS.  C.  H.  HEATON. 


Bronze  Pudding* 


i  cup  molasses. 

3  cups  flour. 

I  teaspoonful  salt. 

Steam  three  hours. 


i  cup  sweet  milk. 

i  cup  raisins. 

i  teaspoonful  soda. 


MISS  JOSEPHINE  WOOD. 


Railroad  Pudding* 


i  cud  su£ar. 


i  cup  raisins. 
3  cups  flour. 

I  teaspoonful  cream  of  tartar. 


1  cup  chopped  pork. 

2  cups  sweet  milk. 
3i>  teaspoonful  soda. 


Steam  two  hours. 


MRS.  T.  J.  DEAVXTT. 


Brown  Pudding* 


i  cup  molasses, 
i  cup  raisins. 
2,%  CUPS  flour, 
i  teaspoonful  soda. 


i  cup  chopped  suet, 
l  cup  milk, 
i  teaspoonful  allspice, 
i  teaspoonful  salt, 


Steam  three  hours.    Never  fails. 


MRS.  H.  J.  ANDREWS. 


Bellevue  Pudding. 

One  cup  of  molasses,  one-quarter  cup  of  butter.  Melt 
the  butter  and  stir  into  the  molasses.  Add  cloves,  cin- 
namon and  nutmeg.  One  teaspoonful  soda  dissolved  in 
a  cup  of  milk,  flour  enough  to  make  as  stiff  as  ginger- 
bread.   Steam  two  hours. 

Sauce  : — One  cup  of  water,  one  cup  of  sugar,  one 
tablespoonful  of  butter,  a  little  cinnamon,  nutmeg  and 


HOT  PUDDINGS. 


65 


salt,  and  three  tablespoonfuls  of  vinegar.  Boil,  add 
the  whites  of  two  eggs,  yolk  of  one,  and  take  imme- 
diately from  the  fire. 


MRS.  GEO.  W.  WILDER. 


Steamed  Pudding. 


1  cup  raisins,  seeded. 
%  cup  syrup. 
Spices  to  taste. 


3  cups  chopped  bread. 
1^  cup  melted  butter. 
1  cup  sweet  milk. 
1  small  teaspoonful  soda. 

Mix  and  steam  two  hours.  Eat  with  sour  or  sweet 
sauce. 

J.  H.  P. 

Apple  Puddings 

Stew  half  a  dozen  apples.  Take  a  half  pint  of  milk, 
two  eggs,  two  teaspoonfuls  of  baking  powder,  a  piece 
of  butter  the  size  of  an  egg,  flour  to  make  a  batter. 
Pour  this  batter  over  the  apples  and  bake.  Serve  with 
cream. 

MRS.  A.  W.  SLOCUM. 

Marshmallow  Pudding* 

1  pint  milk.  I  ^  cup  sugar. 

1  tablespoonful  cornstarch.  |  2  tablespoonfuls  Baker's  choc- 

2  eggs.  olate,  melted  and  boiled 
Vanilla  flavoring.  with  the  milk. 

Line  a  dish  with  marshmallows,  pour  custard  over 
them  while  hot,  and  add  the  whites  of  the  eggs,  with  one 
tablespoonful  powdered  sugar.  Dot  the  top  with 
marshmallows. 

ST.  JOHNSBURY  COOKERY  CRAFT. 

Prune  Pudding* 

One  pound  of  prunes  boiled  until  tender.  Stone 
when  cool  and  chop  fine.    Beat  the  whites  of  eight  eggs 


66 


THE   DEWEY   COOK  BOOK. 


to  a  stiff  froth,  add  two-thirds  of  a  cup  of  powdered 
sugar,  then  the  prunes,  and  beat  until  well  mixed. 
Bake  one-half  hour.  Serve  with  whipped  cream, 
sweetened,  and  flavored  with  vanilla.  This  makes 
a  large-sized  pudding. 


MRS.  L.  BART  CROSS. 


Graham  Pudding. 


1  cup  raisins. 

%  cup  molasses  (or  brown 
sugar) . 

2  rounding  cups  graham  flour. 
A  little  salt. 


\%  cups  sweet  milk. 
2  eggs. 

i  teaspoonful  soda. 


Steam  three  hours. 

Sauce  : — One  pint  and  a  half  of  water,  three-quarters 
of  a  cup  of  sugar,  half  a  cup  of  butter,  thicken  with 
flour  mixed  with  water,  and  flavor  with  lemon  extract. 

MRS.  C.  H.  MORE. 

Graham  Pudding. 


2  cups  graham  flour, 
i  cup  milk. 

I  cup  raisins,  seeded  and 

chopped. 
I  teaspoonful  soda  dissolved 

in  little  warm  water. 


%  teaspoonful  ground  cloves. 

i  cup  molasses. 

i  egg,  well  beaten. 

%,  teaspoonful  cinnamon. 

A  little  nutmeg  and  salt. 


Put  the  flour  in  a  pan,  add  the  other  ingredients, 
flouring  the  raisins.  Mix  all  thoroughly,  then  put  into 
a  well-buttered  dish  and  steam  three  hours.  Serve  hot 
with  sauce. 

Sauce  : — One  cup  of  sugar,  half  a  cup  of  butter,  two 
cups  of  sweet  milk,  just  scalded,  and  one  teaspoonful  of 
vanilla.  Cream  the  butter  and  sugar,  add  the  milk  and 
vanilla,  and  just  before  sending  to  the  table  add  the 
well-beaten  white  of  an  egg. 


MISS  M.  D.  WHITE. 


HOT   PUDDINGS.  67 

Graham  Pudding* 

1  cup  graham.  %  cup  raisins. 

%.  cup  molasses.  %  cup  sour  milk. 

1  egg,  beaten  light.  %  teaspoonful  soda. 
%  teaspoonful  salt. 

Steam  two  hours. 

Sauce  : — Three-quarters  of  a  cup  of  sugar,  one  egg 
beaten  light,  and  when  ready  to  serve  add  one  cup 
of  boiling  water. 


MRS.  J.  H.  POLAND. 


Graham  Pudding, 


1  cup  raisins,  chopped. 
%  cup  sugar. 

1  teaspoonful  soda  in  little 

warm  water. 
A  pinch  of  salt. 


1  cup  milk. 

2  cups  graham. 


Steam  three  hours.    Serve  with  wine  sauce. 

MRS.  D.  S.  WHEATLEY. 


Troy  Pudding* 


2  cups  chopped  bread. 

1  cup  chopped  suet. 

2  eggs. 

1  teaspoonful  cloves. 

1  heaping  teaspoonful  soda. 


1  cup  chopped  raisins. 

1  cup  molasses. 

1  tablespoonful  cinnamon, 

1  cup  sweet  milk. 

3  cups  flour. 


Boil  four  hours.  Will  keep  several  weeks  in  a  cool 
place.    Very  nice. 


MRS.  D.  S.  WHEATLEY. 


Mother's  Pudding. 

1  quart  milk.  I  3  teaspoonfuls  cornmeal. 

2  eggs. 

Beat  the  yolks  of  the  eggs  with  maple  sugar  to 
sweeten  to  taste,  add  the  meal,  moistened  with  a  little 
of  the  milk,  stir  into  the  milk  after  it  is  heated  in  a 


6S 


THE   DEWEY   COOK  BOOK. 


double  boiler.  Let  it  cook  ten  minutes  or  until  it 
thickens,  stirring  constantly.  Add  the  whites  of  the 
eggs  beaten  to  a  stiff  froth.  Put  in  a  buttered  pudding 
dish  and  bake  one  hour. 

MRS.  DELIA  A.  WATSON. 

Chocolate  Pudding. 

Take  one  quart  of  milk,  ten  tablespoonfuls  of  bread 
crumbs,  the  yolks  of  six  eggs,  one  cup  of  sugar. 
Sprinkle  six  tablespoonfuls  of  grated  chocolate  over  the 
top,  and  a  little  sugar  over  that.  Bake  one  hour. 
When  done,  spread  the  beaten  whites  over  the  whole. 
Do  not  put  in  the  oven  to  brown. 

MRS.  W.  A.  BRIGGS. 

Puff  Pudding. 

Pour  scalding  milk  over  slices  of  white  bread.  Then 
beat  it  well  with  four  eggs,  a  little  sugar  and  nutmeg. 
Bake  in  small  cups,  which  must  be  only  half  filled. 

R.  P.  J.  B. 

Berry  Pudding* 

Four  pounded  crackers,  one  or  two  eggs,  a  large 
coffee  cup  of  milk,  a  pint  of  berries.    Boil  one  hour. 

R.  P.  J.  B. 

Berry  Pudding. 

One  cup  of  molasses,  one  cup  of  sour  milk,  one  and 
a  half  pints  of  berries,  a  little  salt,  one  teaspoonful  of 
soda,  and  flour  enough  to  make  as  stiff  as  gingerbread. 
Steam  nearly  four  hours. 

Sauce  : — Fresh  Bonny-Clabber,  sweetened  and  flav- 
ored to  taste, with  sweet  cream  added.  (Be  sure  and  not 
tell  beforehand  what  your  sauce  is  made  of.) 

MRS.  GEO.  W.  WILDER. 


HOT  PUDDINGS. 


69 


Feather  Pudding* 

%  cup  sugar.  1  cup  flour. 

X  cup  cold  water.  1  tablespoonful  butter. 

2  level  teaspoonfuls  baking-  A  pinch  of  salt, 

powder.  1  egg. 

Put  fruit,  cherries  preferred,  in  six  well-buttered 
cups,  then  pour  in  the  batter  and  steam  forty  minutes. 
Serve  hot  with  milk  or  any  palatable  sauce. 

MRS.  HENRY  COLTON. 

Cherry  Pudding* 

Butter  lightly  slices  of  stale  bread.  Cut  in  small 
pieces  and  dip  into  milk.  Place  in  the  bottom  of  the 
pudding-dish  a  layer  of  bread.  Cover  with  stoned 
cherries.  Fill  the  dish  with  alternate  layers  of  bread 
and  cherries  having  bread  on  top.  Bake  two  hours 
very  slowly.  Serve  with  a  hard  sauce  of  butter  and 
sugar,  flavored  as  desired. 

MRS.  H.  S.  BOARDMAN. 

Pandowdy* 

Take  a  quart  of  finely  sliced  apples,  place  in  a  deep 
pie  plate,  sprinkle  with  sugar  and  nutmeg.  Make  a 
very  rich  biscuit  dough,  cover  the  apples  with  it,  and 
bake  until  the  apples  are  soft,  from  one-half  to  three- 
quarters  of  an  hour.  Turn  out  on  a  hot  plate ;  this 
brings  the  apples  on  top ;  sprinkle  with  more  sugar 
and  cover  with  the  sauce.    Serve  hot. 

Sauce  : — Melt  a  piece  of  butter  the  size  of  an  egg, 
add  a  large  tablespoonful  of  flour,  stir  until  smooth. 
Add  one-quarter  of  a  cup  of  boiled  cider,  one  table- 
spoonful of  molasses,  and  three  tablespoonfuls  of  sugar. 
Mix  all  together,  and  add  enough  boiling  water  to  make 
a  sauce  the  consistency  of  a  very  thick  custard. 

MISS  MARY  H.  GLEASON. 


70  THE  DEWEY  COOK  BOOK. 

Orange  Pudding* 


2  eggs. 

1  teaspoonful  butter. 


1  cup  sugar. 
%  cup  rolled  crackers. 
1  quart  milk. 

Grated  rind  and  juice  of  one  orange,  mix  and  bake. 

MRS.  HENRY  COLTON. 


Rice  Pudding* 


%_  cup  rice. 

cup  cream. 
Vanilla. 


1  quart  milk. 

Butter  size  of  a  butternut. 


Put  the  ingredients  together  without  swelling  the 
rice.    Bake,  very  slowly,  two  hours  ;  stir  often  at  first. 

MRS.  HIRAM  CARLETON. 


Short  Cake* 


2  cups  flour. 

2  dessertspoonfuls  lard, worked 
in  the  flour. 

1  heaping  teaspoonful  baking- 
powder. 


1  teaspoonful  sugar. 
1  small  cup  sweet  milk. 
%,  teaspoonful  salt. 


MRS.  E.  P.  SMILIE. 


Strawberry  Shortcake* 

3  gills  flour.  1  gill  milk,  generous  measure. 

1  tablespoonful  sugar.  2  heaping  tablespoonfuls  butter 

1  heaping  tablespoonful  baking    %  teaspoonful  salt, 
powder. 

Mix  the  dry  ingredients,  and  put  twice  through  a 
seive.  Rub  the  butter  through  this  mixture ;  then  wet 
with  the  milk.  Butter  a  large  deep  pie  plate.  Divide 
the  dough  into  two  parts,  and  roll  out  the  size  of  the 
plate.  Lay  them  in  the  plate,  one  on  top  of  the  other, 
and  bake  in  a  quick  oven.  Take  from  the  oven  and 
tear  gently  apart ;  place  the  under  one  on  a  warm  plate, 


HOT  PUDDINGS. 


7* 


butter  well  and  cover  with  slightly  crushed  and  sweet- 
ened strawberries.  Put  the  top  on  and  serve  imme- 
diately with  whipped  cream. 

MRS.  F.  H.  MERRILL. 

Tapioca  and  Pineapple  Pudding* 

One  and  a  half  cups  of  tapioca  ;  after  it  is  swelled, 
add  pineapple  (which  has  been  chopped  fine  and 
sweetened)  as  much  as  you  can  stir  into  the  tapioca. 
Bake  from  an  hour  to  an  hour  and  a  half.  Then  frost 
with  the  whites  of  two  eggs,  and  two  tablespoonfuls  of 
sugar.    Brown  slightly. 

MRS.  COTTRILL. 

Cottage  Pudding* 


1  scant  cup  sugar. 
1  cup  sweet  milk. 
1  teaspoonful  soda. 


1  egg. 

2  tablespoonfuls  melted  butter. 
2  cups  flour. 

2  teaspoonfuls  cream  of  tartar. 

Beat  all  together  briskly.    Bake  in  a  quick  oven. 

Sauce  : — Beat  separately  to  a  froth  the  yolks  and 
whites  of  two  eggs.  To  the  yolks  add  one  cup  of 
sugar,  the  juice  of  one  orange,  and  lastly  the  beaten 
whites.    To  be  served  immediately. 

Custard  Souffle. 

4  eggs.  2  tablespoonfuls  butter. 

2  tablespoonfuls  flour.  1  cup  milk. 

1  cup  powdered  sugar. 

Cream  the  butter,  add  the  flour,  add  boiling  milk 
and  cook  ten  minutes,  stirring  all  the  while.  To  this 
mixture  add  the  yolks  of  the  eggs  and  sugar  beaten  to- 
gether. When  cool  add  the  beaten  whites,  and  bake  in 
a  buttered  dish  twenty  minutes.  Serve  with  creamy 
sauce. 

MRS.  E.  P.  SMILIE. 


7* 


THE    DEWEY   COOK  BOOK. 


Snow  Balls* 

Cream  one-half  a  cup  of  butter,  add  one  cup  of 
sugar  gradually,  and  beat  to  a  cream.  Add  the  whites 
of  four  eggs,  beaten  stiff.  Mix  two  teaspoonfuls  of 
baking-powder  with  two  cups  of  flour,  add  this  to  the 
sugar  and  butter,  and  one-half  a  cup  of  milk.  Put  in 
cups  and  steam  three-quarters  of  an  hour.  Roll  in 
powdered  sugar,  and  serve. 

MRS.  J.  H.  POLAND. 

Fruit  Puffs. 

i  egg.  %  CUP  sugar. 

%  cup  milk.  %  CUP  butter. 

i  cup  flour.  %  teaspoonful  soda. 

i  teaspoonful  cream  of  tartar.  [  %  cup  small  fruit. 

Use  blueberries,  blackberries  or  cherries.  Bake  or 
steam  in  eight  cups  half  an  hour.  Serve  with  any 
liquid  sauce. 

MRS.  E.  D.  B. 

Wonders. 

Put  one  egg  in  a  bowl,  add  a  quarter  of  a  teaspoonful 
of  salt,  when  well  beaten  add  flour,  a  teaspoonful  at  a 
time,  until  too  stiff  to  stir.  Knead  in  more,  roll  as 
thin  as  paper,  cut  out  in  rounds  and  fry  in  hot  lard. 
Drain  on  brown  paper.  Sprinkle  with  sugar  or  salt. 
Serve  with  hot  coffee  or  chocolate,  or  tor  dessert  with 
whipped  cream. 

MRS.  C.  H.  HEATON. 

Delicate  Pudding  Sauce* 

One  egg  and  one  cup  of  sugar  beaten  a  long  time. 
Thicken  one  cup  of  milk  with  one  teaspoonful  of  flour 


SAUCES. 


73 


and  boil.  Add  a  little  salt.  Just  before  sending  to  the 
table,  pour  milk  upon  the  sugar  and  egg,  beating  all  the 
while.    Flavor  to  taste. 

MES.  J.  H.  POLAND. 

Hard  Pudding;  Sauce* 

One-quarter  cup  of  butter,  creamed,  add  slowly  one- 
half  a  cup  of  powdered  sugar,  beating  well,  add  slowly 
three  tablespoonfuls  of  cream.    Flavor  with  vanilla. 

MRS.  J.  H.  POLAND. 

Pudding;  Sauce* 

Boil  one  cup  of  milk,  stir  into  it  one  tablespoonful  of 
corn-starch  dissolved  in  half  a  cup  of  cold  water.  Beat 
one  egg  and  add  it  with  half  a  cup  of  cold  milk,  four 
tablespoonfuls  of  sugar,  and  a  little  salt  to  the  boiling 
milk  and  boil  two  or  three  minutes.  Four  or  five  peach 
leaves  boiled  in  the  milk  flavor  the  sauce  very  pleasant- 
ly, or  lemon  or  vanilla  may  be  used. 

MRS.  G.  W.  WILDEE. 

Pudding;  Sauce* 

Four  large  spoonfuls  of  white  sugar,  two  tablespoon- 
fuls of  butter  and  one  tablespoonful  of  flour,  stirred  to 
a  cream.  Beat  the  white  of  an  egg  to  a  stiff  froth  and 
add  it.  Pour  in  a  gill  of  boiling  water  stirring  it  very 
fast.    Flavor  with  wine,  lemon  or  nutmeg. 

MES.  R.  P.  J.  BUEGESS. 

Wine  Sauce* 

2  cups  sugar.  I  cup  butter. 

2  tablespoonfuls  wine  or  brandy,    i  teaspoonful  flour. 

4  tablespoonfuls  boiling  water.     A  little  nutmeg. 

Beat  the  sugar  and  butter  to  a  froth,  add  slowly  the 


74 


THE  DEWEY  COOK  BOOK. 


wine,  the  nutmeg  and  the  flour.  After  all  are  mixed, 
add  four  tablespoonfuls  of  water,  put  it  on  the  stove 
and  allow  it  to  come  to  a  boil  just  before  serving. 

MRS.  EDWARD  DEWEY. 


Creamy  Sauce. 

I  cup  powdered  sugar.  I  %  cup  cream. 

%  cup  butter.  j  i  teaspoonful  vanilla. 

Beat  the  butter  to  a  cream,  add  the  sugar,  then  add 
gradually  the  cream.  When  well  beaten  place  in  a  dish 
of  hot  water  and  stir. 

MRS.  E.  P.  SMILIE. 


Wine  Sauce* 

I  cup  powdered  sugar.  I  %  cup  butter. 

4  tablespoonfuls  wine.  j  4  tablespoonfuls  cream. 

Beat  the  sugar  and  butter  to  a  cream,  add  slowly  the 
wine,  and  the  cream. 

MRS.  D.  S.  WHEATLET. 


Lemon  Sauce* 


2  cups  hot  water. 

Grated  rind  and  juice  of  a  lemon. 

3  heaping  teaspoonfuls  corn- 

starch. 


1  cup  sugar. 

1  tablespoonful  butter. 


Boil  the  water  and  sugar  five  minutes,  add  the  corn- 
starch, wet  in  a  little  cold  water,  cook  eight  or  ten  min- 
utes, add  the  lemon  juice,  rind  and  butter.  Stir  until 
the  butter  is  melted  and  serve  at  once.  If  the  water 
boils  away  and  the  sauce  becomes  too  thick,  add  more 
hot  water  until  thin  enough. 


MISS  KATE  KEMPTON. 


SAUCES. 


75 


Strawberry  Sauce. 

Beat  the  whites  of  two  eggs  to  a  stiff  froth,  add  a  cup 
of  sugar,  and  beat  again,  add  a  little  salt,  and  half  a 
box  of  strawberries,  that  have  been  mashed  and  pressed 
through  a  sieve. 

MRS,  E.  J.  G. 


COLD  PUDDINGS,  FANCY  DISHES 
AND  ICES. 


A  Cold  Berry  Pudding;, 


i  quart  raspberries. 
I  pint  currants. 


I  quart  whortleberries. 
I  quart  blackberries. 
I  pound  sugar. 

Stew  all  together.  Cut  a  brick  shaped  loaf  of  bread 
in  thin  slices  and  spread  with  butter.  Cover  the  bottom 
of  the  dish,  in  which  your  pudding  is  to  be  served,  with 
the  slices  of  bread,  pour  over  a  layer  of  the  boiling  fruit, 
alternate  the  layers  until  the  dish  is  nearly  full  and  fill 
up  with  the  fruit.  Let  it  stand  covered  three  or  four 
hours.     Serve  with  sugar  and  cream. 

MRS.  GEO.  W.  WILD  EE. 

Peach  Pudding, 

Put  a  layer  of  plain  cake  in  the  bottom  of  a  pudding 
dish,  then  a  layer  of  canned  peaches,  sprinkled  with 
sugar.  Then  a  layer  of  cake  and  so  on  until  the  dish 
is  full,  the  last  layer  being  of  cake.  Beat  the  yolks  of 
two  eggs  with  sugar  to  taste,  and  add  them  to  the  juice 
of  the  peaches,  and  pour  over  the  pudding.  Bake  until 
nicely  browned  in  a  slow  oven.  When  almost  cold, 
frost  with  the  beaten  whites  of  the  two  eggs.  Serve 
cold  with  sweetened  cream. 

MRS.  FRANK  SHERBURNE. 


COLD  PUDDINGS. 


77 


Pudding  a  la  Macedoine* 

Make  a  jelly  with  one  half  box  of  gelatine,  soaked  in 
half  a  cup  full  of  cold  water,  and  dissolved  in  half  a  pint 
of  boiling  water.  Add  a  cup  of  sugar,  half  a  cup  of 
orange  juice,  and  the  juice  of  three  lemons.  Harden 
fruits  in  the  jelly,  in  layers,  using  figs,  dates,  bananas, 
walnuts  and  cherries.  Garnish  with  beaten  cream, 
sweetened  and  flavored. 

MISS.  E.  M.  BAILEY. 

Tapioca  Cream* 

Three  tablespoonfuls  of  tapioca  soaked  over  night  in 
water.  In  the  morning  turn  it  into  one  quart  of  milk, 
add  a  little  salt,  half  a  cup  of  sugar,  white  of  one  egg, 
yolks  of  two  eggs.  Cook  in  double  boiler  until  clear, 
then  pour  into  mould,  and  frost  with  the  white  of  the 
egg- 

MRS.  K.  CHAPMAN. 

Peach  Tapioca* 

Soak  one  cup  of  tapioca  over  night  in  twTo  cups  of 
water.  In  the  morning  put  it  into  a  double  boiler ; 
when  it  boils,  add  a  cup  of  sugar,  and  boil  until  it  is 
clear.  Cut  up  a  dozen  peaches  in  small  pieces  and  lay 
them  in  a  pudding  dish,  sprinkle  half  a  cup  of  sugar 
over  them,  pour  on  the  tapioca,  and  bake  about  fifteen 
minutes.    Serve  with  cream. 

MISS  GERTRUDE  MEINECKE. 

Cherry  Tapioca. 

Soak  a  small  cup  of  tapioca  with  a  teaspoonful  of 
salt,  over  night.  In  the  morning  drain,  and  add  the 
juice  of  a  pint  can  of  cherries.    When  the  tapioca  is 


7S 


THE   DEWEY   COOK  BOOK. 


cooked,  pour  it  over  the  cherries.  Serve  cold,  with 
whipped  cream,  sweetened. 

MRS.  COLTON. 

Prune  "Whips. 

One  pound  of  prunes  soaked  over  night ;  in  the  morn- 
ing cook  soft,  remove  the  stones  and  press  through  a 
colander.  Beat  stiff  the  whites  of  three  eggs,  add  the 
prunes,  put  in  a  buttered  dish,  and  bake  twenty  minutes 
in  a  moderate  oven.    Serve  cold  with  whipped  cream. 

MRS.  C.  A.  SPARROW. 

Custard  Foam* 

i  quart  milk.  Yolks  four  eggs. 

i  heaping  tablespoonful  corn-      4  tablespoonfuls  sugar. 

starch.  Flavor  as  desired. 

A  little  salt. 

Make  a  boiled  custard  of  the  above  ingredients  ;  when 
sufficiently  cooked  and  boiling  hot,  turn  into  a  deep  dish 
suitable  for  the  table.  Have  ready,  beaten  to  a  froth, 
the  whites  of  four  eggs,  and  four  level  teaspoonfuls  of 
sugar.  Pour  this  over  the  custard  and  stir  in  lightly. 
To  be  eaten  cold. 

MRS.  H.  J.  ANDREWS. 

Charlotte  Russe. 

Dissolve  one-third  of  a  box  of  gelatine  in  a  teacupful 
of  warm  milk.  Beat  the  whites  of  four  eggs  to  a  stiff 
froth,  and  add  three  tablespoonfuls  of  sugar.  Stir  the 
eggs  and  sugar  into  one-half  pint  of  thick  sweet  cream, 
which  has  been  whipped  until  light.  When  the  gela- 
tine is  dissolved,  and  about  luke  warm,  stir  all  together 
and  set  away  to  cool.  Line  a  mould  with  jelly  fingers, 
or  slices  of  sponge  cake,  and  pour  this  mixture  into  it, 


FANCY  DISHES. 


79 


and  set  in  a  cool  place.  Flavor  with  vanilla  or  any 
flavor  you  choose. 

MRS.  J.  W.  CLARK. 

Peach  Charlotte* 

Make  a  rich  custard,  flavor  with  almond  and  cool. 
Cut  sponge  cake  into  thin  slices.  Slice  peaches  thin 
and  sugar  them.  Arrange  alternate  layers  of  the  cake 
and  peaches,  in  a  pretty  glass  dish,  and  pour  over  the 
whole,  the  custard.  Spread  the  top  with  whipped 
cream  flavored  with  almond.    Serve  cold. 

MISS  KATE  KEMPTON. 

Coffee  Cream, 

t  pint  cream.  j  %  box  gelatine, 

i  cup  strong  coffee.  (  I  cup  sugar. 

Soak  the  gelatine  in  the  boiling  coffee,  and  add 
the  sugar.  When  thoroughly  dissolved  set  aside  to 
cool.  Whip  the  cream  until  thick.  Strain  the  coffee 
through  a  linen  strainer,  pour  into  the  cream  and  beat 
thoroughly.  Wet  the  moulds  in  cold  water,  then  pour 
into  them  the  cream.  Set  in  the  ice  box  for  three  or 
four  hours. 

MRS.  DELIA  A.  WATSON. 


I  pint  of  cream. 

1  quart  of  milk. 

2  squares  of  chocolate 


Chocolate  Whips* 

Yolks  of  ten  eggs. 
Vanilla. 


Heat  a  pint  and  a  half  of  the  milk  in  a  double  boiler. 
Beat  the  yolks  with  the  sugar,  add  the  half  pint  of  cold 
milk,  and  pour  the  hot  milk  into  it,  stirring  all  the  time. 
Return  to  the  double  boiler  and  cook  until  quite  thick. 


So 


THE  DEWEY  COOK  BOOK. 


Stir  constantly.  Melt  the  chocolate  and  add  it  to  one- 
half  the  hot  custard.  Set  both  aside  to  cool.  Season 
the  cream  with  a  teaspoonful  of  vanilla,  whip  to  a  stiff 
froth.  When  the  custard  is  cold,  fill  glasses  or  cups  one- 
third  full  of  the  chocolate,  one-third  of  the  plain  custard, 
and  heap  the  whipped  cream  on  top. 

MRS.  HOUGHTON. 

Wine  Jelly  Whips, 

Pour  one  quart  of  wine  jelly  into  very  small  glasses » 
so  that  each  mould  of  jelly  will  not  exceed  two  inches 
in  height.  When  stiff,  remove  jelly  from  glasses, 
place  on  serving  dish,  and  put  flavored  and  sweetened 
whipped  cream  between  and  around  them.  Garnish 
the  cream  with  candied  cherries,  and  small,  thin  slices 
of  candied  ginger. 

GEACE  M.  HOUGHTON. 

Orange  Jelly* 

Take  four  large  oranges,  grate  the  rind  of  two  of 
them,  use  the  juice  and  pulp  of  the  others,  and  the  juice 
and  pulp  of  two  lemons.  Soak  half  a  box  of  gelatine 
in  half  a  pint  of  cold  water  for  ten  minutes,  then  add 
two-thirds  of  a  pint  of  boiling  water.  Sweeten  to 
taste,  add  the  juice  of  the  fruit  and  strain  into  moulds. 

MRS.  R.  P.  J.  BURGESS. 

Gder  Jelly* 

Half  a  box  of  gelatine,  one  quart  of  cider.  Dissolve 
the  gelatine  in  a  little  of  the  cider.  Let  the  remaining 
cider  just  come  to  the  boiling  point,  after  adding  two 
cups  of  sugar.  Pour  over  the  gelatine.  Add  a  tea- 
spoonful  of  vanilla  before  putting  it  into  the  mould. 

MBS.  EDWARD  DEWEY. 


FANCY  DISHES. 


Si 


Baked  Apples. 

Pare  and  core  tart  apples,  bake  in  a  little  water. 
Place  in  a  dish,  fill  the  centres  with  jelly,  and  on  the 
top  of  each  apple  place  a  meringue.  Put  apples  in  a 
moderate  oven  for  six  or  eight  minutes.  Serve  very 
cold. 

MKS.  KATHBRINE  CHAPMAN. 

Jellied  Apple. 

Fill  a  quart  bowl  with  thinly  sliced  apples,  in  layers, 
with  sugar,  add  half  a  cup  of  water,  cover  with  a 
saucer  weighted.  Bake  slowly  three  hours.  Let  stand 
until  cold.  Turn  out  into  a  dish,  and  serve  with 
cream. 

Jj.  H.  J. 

Stewed  Figs  with  Cream. 

Look  over  and  wash  some  pulled  figs.  Cover  with 
boiling  water  and  cook  quickly  until  the  figs  are  tender. 
Remove  the  figs  and  cook  the  water  to  a  syrup.  Add 
the  juice  of  an  orange  or  of  half  of  a  lemon.  When  the 
figs  are  thoroughly  cold,  heap  them  in  the  center  of  a 
dish.  Garnish  with  a  circle  of  whipped  cream  around 
the  base. 

MISS  E.  M.  BAILEY. 

Oranges,  French  Style. 

Six  oranges  having  fine  skins.  Cut  away  one-third 
from  the  end  of  each  orange  ;  with  a  spoon  remove  all 
the  pulp.  Cut  the  edges  of  the  hemispheres  in  small 
Vandykes.  Put  the  skins  in  cold  water  until  ready  to 
serve.  Press  the  juice  from  the  pulp.  There  should 
be  one  pint  of  juice.    Add  the  juice  of  two  lemons  and 


82 


THE   DEWEY  COOK  BOOK. 


one  cup  of  sugar.  Have  ready  half  a  box  of  gelatine 
(about  two  tablespoonfuls  of  granulated  gelatine), 
soaked  in  half  a  cup  of  cold  water  and  dissolved  in  half 
a  cup  of  boiling  wacer.  Strain  the  gelatine  into  the 
orange  juice,  stir  until  the  sugar  is  dissolved,  and  set 
away  to  become  chilled.  When  ready  to  serve,  arrange 
the  orange  "shells,"  fill  them  with  the  jelly,  cut  in 
cubes,  decorate  with  whipped  cream  and  candied 
cherries.  This  dish  is  very  handsome.  Color  may  be 
given  the  jell}'  by  the  use  of  pink  gelatine. 

MISS  E.  M.  BAILEY. 

Frozen  Pudding. 

Heat  one  pint  of  milk,  add  two  tablespoonfuls  flour, 
a  little  salt,  the  yolks  of  two  eggs  beaten  smooth,  one 
and  a  half  cups  of  sugar.  After  it  begins  to  thicken, 
cook  fifteen  or  twenty  minutes.  Let  it  cool,  add  a  pint 
of  thick  cream,  a  quart  of  milk  and  a  teaspoonful  of 
vanilla.  Freeze.  When  nearly  frozen,  add  one  pound 
of  candied  fruit,  which  has  been  cut  up  and  soaked  in 
five  or  six  tablespoonfuls  of  sherry  wine. 

MBS.  C.  H.  H EATON. 

Frozen  Pudding;. 

3^  pound  macaroons,  rolled      I  i  pint  of  cream,  whipped. 

fine.  '  Sugar  and  vanilla. 

%  pound  preserved  cherries.  | 

Pack  in  freezer  and  let  stand  seven  hours,  or  in  winter 
set  in  snow  out  doors. 

MRS.  HENRY  COLTON. 

Frozen  Custard. 

Make  a  custard  with  one  cup  of  sweet  milk,  yolks  of 
four  eggs,  one-half  a  cup  of  maple  syrup.    Whip  one 


ICES. 


S3 


cup  of  cream,  and  add  to  the  custard  when  cold. 
Freeze. 

MRS.  A.  W.  SLOCUM. 

Coffee  Moss* 

Take  one-half  a  cup  of  strong  coffee,  yolks  of  five 
eggs,  one  small  cup  of  sugar.  Cook  like  custard.  When 
cold,  add  one  pint  of  whipped  cream.  Pack  in  a  mould 
and  "still  freeze." 

MRS.  W.  A.  BRIGGS. 
MRS.  E.  J.  G. 

Cafe  Mousse* 

Beat  well  the  yolks  of  three  eggs,  add  half  a  cup  of 
sugar,  and  half  a  cup  of  strong  coffee.  Put  all  in  a 
double  boiler  and  stir  until  it  is  like  a  custard ;  then 
strain  and  set  away  to  cool.  When  cold,  beat  stiff  a 
pint  of  cream,  add  the  beaten  whites  of  the  eggs,  and 
the  coffee  mixture.  Stir  well  together,  and  pack  in  a 
pail  with  a  tight  cover.  Put  a  piece  of  buttered  paper 
between  the  cover  and  the  pail  with  the  buttered  side 
up.  Pack  with  pounded  ice,  and  salt  under,  around  and 
over  it,  and  set  in  a  cool  place  to  freeze  four  hours. 

mrs.'o'dell. 

Maple  Par  fait* 

Cook  over  the  fire  in  a  double  boiler  one  cup  of 
sweet  rich  milk,  add  the  yolks  of  four  eggs  well  beaten, 
and  one  cup  of  hot  maple  syrup ;  cool,  and  add  one 
pint  of  thick  cream  beaten  stiff.  Turn  the  mixture  into 
a  mould,  cover  with  parafine  paper,  pack  in  ice  and 
salt,  using  equal  parts  of  each,  and  freeze  for  three 
hours. 

MRS.  C.  H.  BALDWIN. 


84 


THE   DEWEY   COOK  BOOK. 


Maple  Parfait. 

Beat  the  yolks  of  eight  eggs  until  light,  add  slowly 
one  cup  of  hot  maple  syrup,  cook  in  a  double  boiler 
until  a  coating  is  formed  upon  the  spoon.  Turn  the 
mixture  into  a  mould,  filling  it  to  overflowing.  Press 
the  cover  down  over  a  piece  of  wrapping  paper  a  little 
larger  than  the  cover.  Pack  in  ice  and  salt,  let  stand 
four  hours. 

MISS  KATE  KF.MPTON. 

MRS.  E.  J.  G. 

Bombe  Glace. 

Line  a  mould  with  pineapple  ice  and  fill  with  cream 
which  has  been  beaten  stiff,  sweetened  and  flavored 
with  vanilla.  "Still  freeze."  Cover  mould  with 
buttered  or  parafine  paper.  Pack  in  salt  and  ice  for 
two  hours. 

MISS  GERTRUDE  MEIXECKE. 

Ice  Cream* 

One  quart  of  milk,  one  and  a  half  quarts  of  cream T 
three  bananas  mashed  with  the  juice  of  one  orange. 
Sweeten  to  taste  and  flavor  with  vanilla.  Put  the  milk 
and  cream  into  the  freezer  and  let  them  stand  until 
cool,  then  add  the  fruit.  Freeze. 

MRS.  L.  BART  CROSS. 

Ice  Cream. 

Scald  one  and  a  half  quarts  of  milk.  Beat  two  eggs 
very  light,  add  gradually  one  cup  of  sugar  and  a  small 
teaspoonful  of  corn  starch,  add  these  to  the  scalded 
milk  and  set  to  cool.    When  cool  add  a  pint  or  a  pint. 


ICES. 


85 


and  a  half  of  cream  and  flavor  to  taste.  To  make  fruit 
ice  cream  use  a  dozen  peaches  put  through  a  potato 
ricer,  or  five  or  six  bananas  treated  the  same  way. 

MISS  GEETEUDE  MEINKCKE. 

Ice  Cream. 


1  cup  flour. 
1  cup  sugar. 
A  pinch  salt. 


1  pint  milk,  scalded 
1  pint  cold  milk. 
1  pint  thick  cream. 


Mix  the  flour  with  a  little  of  the  cold  milk,  add  the 
scalding  milk,  cook  twenty  minutes,  add  a  pinch  of 
salt.  Take  from  the  fire,  add  the  sugar,  the  milk  and 
then  strain  through  a  fine  strainer,  add  the  cream, 
flavor  and  freeze. 

MES.  E.  j.  G. 

Pine  Apple  Ice* 

Boil  one  quart  of  water  and  one  and  one-third  cups 
of  sugar,  for  twenty  minutes,  add  one  can  of  grated 
pineapple  and  juice  of  two  lemons.  Cool,  strain  and 
freeze,  using  three  parts  of  ice  to  one  of  salt.  Color 
pink  with  fruit  coloring.  Baking-powder  cans  are 
good  shape  used  as  moulds.  In  packing  mould,  line 
it  about  three-quarters  of  an  inch  deep,  then  fill  solid 
with  the  frozen  cream,  working  quickly  to  prevent 
thawing. 

MISS  GEETEUDE  MEINECKE. 

Strawberry  Sherbet* 

1  quart  berries.  1  1  pint  sugar. 

1  lemon.  I  1  quart  water. 

Mash  the  berries,  add  the  sugar,  and  after  standing 
until  the  sugar  is  dissolved,  add  the  water  and  lemon 
juice.  Press  through  fine  cheese-cloth.  Freeze. 
Vary  the  sugar  as  the  fruit  requires. 

MES.  INEZ  B.  MOULTON. 


86 


THE  DEWEY  COOK  BOOK. 


Lemon  Sherbet* 

Two  small  tablespoonfuls  of  gelatine  soaked  in  a 
little  cold  water,  and  dissolved  in  one  and  a  half  pints 
of  boiling  water.  The  juice  of  two  large  or  three 
small  lemons,  and  the  rind  of  one.  Three  cups  of 
sugar  and  a  very  small  pinch  of  salt.  Add  the  lemon 
juice  to  the  sugar,  then  add  the  gelatine  after  being 
dissolved  in  the  boiling  water,  and  last  the  salt.  Strain 
into  the  freezer  and  freeze. 

MISS  KATE  KEMPTON. 


CAKE. 


Fruit  Cake* 


I  pound  sugar. 

I  pound  flour  (a  little  more  if 


i  pound  butter. 
8  eggs. 


needed.) 
i  small  cup  of  molasses. 

1  pound  currants. 

2  teaspoonfuls  cloves. 


2  pounds  raisins. 
34  pound  citron. 


4  teaspoonfuls  cinnamon. 
3  nutmegs. 


i  teaspoonful  soda. 

This  will  make  two  large  loaves. 

MRS.  EATHERINE  C.  CHAPMAN. 


Two  lbs.  of  flour,  2  lbs.  of  sugar,  2  lbs.  of  butter,  16 
eggs,  4  lbs.  of  currants,  3  lbs.  raisins,  lb.  citron,  1 
oz.  cinnamon,  mace,  ginger,  y2  oz.  of  cloves,  2  glasses 
of  wine,  2  glasses  of  brandy,  pt.  of  molasses,  1  tea- 
spoonful  of  saleratus. 


Fruit  Cake. 


MRS.  E.  P.  JEWETT. 


Fruit  Cake. 


1%  pounds  flour. 
1%  pounds  sugar. 
3  pounds  currants. 
%  ounce  mace. 


%  ounce  cinnamon 
l%  pounds  raisins. 
3^  ounce  cloves. 


%  pound  citron. 


1%  pounds  butter. 
1  dozen  eggs. 


%  ounce  nutmeg. 
)4  pint  brandy. 


An  old  recipe. 


MISS  JOSEPHINE  WOOD. 


THE   DEWEY   COOK  BOOK. 


Fruit  Cake 


i  pound  raisins. 
^  pound  citron. 
%  cup  molasses, 
i  dessertspoonful  cloves, 
i  dessertspoonful  nutmeg. 


I  pound  currants. 
6  ounces  butter  (or  a  good 

cupful). 
6  ounces  brown  sugar  (or  two 

good  cupfuls). 
6  ounces  flour  (or  two  cupfuls). 
2%  ounces  eggs — five  eggs, 
i  dessertspoonful  cinnamon. 

Bake  in  a  moderate  oven  for  an  hour  or  more, 
makes  three  pounds. 


This 


MRS.  C.  H.  MORE. 


"Wedding;  Cake, 


2.%  pounds  butter. 
i%  pounds  currants. 
l%  pounds  citron. 
2  dozen  eggs. 
I  gill  molasses. 
I  ounce  mace, 
i %  ounces  nutmeg. 


2%  pounds  sugar. 
2.y2  pounds  flour. 
i%  pounds  figs. 
3  pounds  raisins, 
i  gill  brandy, 
i  ounce  cloves, 
i  ounce  extract  lemon, 
i %  teaspoonfuls  soda. 

Bake  three  and  a  half  to  four  hours.  This  makes 
four  large  loaves. 

Frosting: — Whites  of  ten  eggs,  three  pounds  of 
frosting  sugar,  and  one  and  a  half  ounces  gum  arabic. 

BOSTON  WOMAN'S  EXCHANGE,  (L.  H.  J.) 

Chocolate  Cake. 

Melt  two  squares  of  chocolate,  add  one-half  cup  of 
sweet  milk  and  the  volk  of  one  egg  beaten  together. 
Boil  until  it  thickens,  stirring  constantly .  Take  from 
the  fire  and  add  butter  the  size  of  a  walnut,  one  cup  of 
sugar,  one-half  a  cup  of  milk,  one  teaspoonful  of  soda, 
one  teaspoonful  of  vanilla,  the  white  of  one  egg  and 
two  very  scant  cups  of  flour.  Frost  with  white  frost- 
ing. 

MRS.  CHARLES  DEWEY. 


CAKE.  89 

Chocolate  Cake* 


2  cups  sugar. 

cup  butter. 

3  eggs. 

34  pound  chocolate. 

1  teaspoonful  cream  of  tartar. 


%  cup  milk. 
1%  cups  flour. 
%  teaspoonful  salt. 
%  teaspoonful  soda. 


Grate  the  chocolate  and  take  out  three  tablespoonfuls 
for  the  frosting.  To  the  chocolate  add  one-half  of  the 
sugar.  Beat  the  butter  to  a  cream,  add  gradually  the 
other  half  of  the  sugar.  Add  three  tablespoonfuls  of 
boiling  water  to  the  chocolate  and  sugar,  stir  over  the 
fire  until  smooth  and  glossy,  then  stir  it  into  the  beaten 
sugar  and  butter.  Add  the  eggs  well  beaten,  the  milk 
and  the  flour,  in  which  the  soda,  salt  and  cream  of 
tartar  have  been  thoroughly  mixed.  Bake  in  a  loaf, 
and  frost  with  a  chocolate  frosting.  Flavor  with  van- 
illa. 

MRS.  J.  C.  HOUGHTON. 


Chocolate  Cake* 

1  cup  sugar.  I  %  cup  butter. 

%  cup  milk.  I  Whites  four  eggs. 

Two  cups  of  flour  in  which  has  been  sifted  a  half 
teaspoonful  of  soda  and  one  teaspoonful  of  cream  of 
tartar.  Cream  the  butter.  Add  sugar,  milk  and  flour, 
and  lastly  the  beaten  whites  of  the  eggs.  Flavor  with 
vanilla.    Bake,  and  frost  with  chocolate  frosting. 

MES.  C.  G.  DOWNING. 


Chocolate  Cake* 


1  cup  sugar. 

2  cups  flour. 
Whites  three  eggs. 

1  teaspoonful  cream  of  tartar. 


%  cup  butter. 

%  cup  sweet  milk. 

%  teaspoonful  soda 


9o 


THE   DEWEY   COOK  BOOK. 


Bake  in  layers. 

Filling  : — One  and  a  half  yolks  of  eggs,  half  a  cup 
of  sugar,  one  tablespoonful  of  milk,  and  one-half  cup 
of  grated  chocolate. 

MES.  DELIA  A.  WATSON. 

Chocolate  Cake. 

Half  a  cup  of  milk,  yolk  of  one  egg,  one  square  of 
Baker's  chocolate,  cooked  like  a  custard.  Cream  one 
cup  of  sugar  and  one  tablespoonful  of  butter,  add  the 
custard,  one  teaspoonful  of  soda  dissolved  in  half  a  cup 
of  milk,  two  cups  of  flour  and  one  teaspoonful  of 
vanilla.  Bake  in  a  loaf,  and  use  the  white  of  the  egg 
for  frosting. 

MES.  K.  C.  CHAPMAN  . 

Devil's  Food. 

i  cup  brown  sugar.  3^  CUP  butter. 

3^  cup  sweet  milk.  2  cups  flour. 

3  eg&s  (keeping  the  white  of      1  even  spoonful  soda, 
one  for  frosting.) 

SECOND  PART. 

I  cup  brown  sugar.  I  1  cup  grated  chocolate. 

%  cup  sweet  milk. 

Put  on  the  stove  and  cook  until  dissolved,  and  add  to 
the  first  part  while  hot. 

MES.  H.  M.  O'DELX. 

Devil  Cake* 

Two  cups  of  brown  sugar,  half  a  cup  of  butter,  halt 
a  cup  of  sour  milk.  Two  eggs  beaten  separately,  one- 
third  of  a  cake  of  chocolate  stirred  in  half  a  cup  of  boil- 
ing water,  one  teaspoonful  of  soda,  stirred  in  the  milk, 
two  cups  and  a  half  of  flour  and  one  teaspoonful  of 


CAKE. 


9r 


vanilla.  Bake  in  thin  sheets  and  put  together  with  a 
rilling  made  by  mixing  two  cups  of  brown  sugar,  one- 
half  a  cup  of  sweet  milk,  and  butter  the  size  of  an  egg. 
Boil  until  it  hardens  in  cold  water,  stirring  all  the  time, 
add  one  teaspoonful  of  vanilla  and  when  cool  enough 
put  between  the  layers. 

MRS.  A.  M.  ATKINS. 

Orange  Cake* 

Cream  one-quarter  of  a  cup  of  butter,  add  one  cup  of 
sugar,  two  well-beaten  eggs,  half  a  cup  of  milk,  and 
one  and  a  half  cups  of  flour  in  which  has  been  mixed 
one  and  one-half  teaspoonfuls  of  baking-powder.  Bake 
in  thin  sheets,  and  put  together  with  a  filling  made  by 
mixing  half  a  cupful  of  sugar,  one  tablespoonful  of 
flour,  one  egg,  the  rind  and  juice  of  half  an  orange  and 
one-half  tablespoonful  of  lemon  juice.  Cook  in  a 
double  boiler  ten  minutes  and  spread  between  the 
sheets. 

MRS.  A.  M.  ATKINS. 

Orange  Cake. 


3  eggs; 

i  heaping  cup  flour. 

1  teaspoonful  cream  of  tartar. 


1  cup  sugar. 

2  tablespoonfuls  sweet  cream. 
%  teaspoonful  soda. 


Drop  with  teaspoon  and  bake. 

Frosting  for  cake  : — One  cup  of  sugar  wet  with 
five  tablespoonfuls  of  milk.  Boil  five  minutes  and 
flavor  with  orange,  stir  until  like  cream  and  spread  on 
cakes. 

MRS.  C  H.  H EATON. 


92 


THE   DEWEY   COOK  BOOK. 


Belcher  Cake, 


I  cup  sugar. 
%  cup  milk. 
1  egg- 

Flavor  as  vou  like. 


i  %  cup  butter. 
2  cups  flour. 

2  teaspoonfuls  baking  powder. 


MRS.  HEXKY  COLTOX. 


Portland  Cake. 


i  coffee  cup  butter.  2  coffee  cups  sugar. 

4  coffee  cups  flour.  5  eggs. 

1  pound  of  raisins.  1  nutmeg. 
1  teaspoonful  soda. 

Bake  an  hour  and  three-quarters.  This  cake  is  fine 
and  will  keep  a  long  time. 


Eagle  Cake. 

1  cup  sugar.  1  %  cup  butter. 

1  cup  sour  milk.  nutmeg. 

2  cups  flour.  1  cup  chopped  raisins. 

1  teaspoonful  soda  beaten  in    j  1  teaspoonful  cinnamon. 

the  sour  milk. 
3^  teaspoonful  cloven. 


No  eggs  are  required  for  this  cake. 


MBS.  C  HARLES  DEWEY. 


Plain  Fruit  Cake. 


%  cup  butter. 
2  cups  flour. 
1  teaspoonful  cloves. 


1  cup  sugar. 
1  cup  sour  milk. 

1  teaspoonful  soda. 

2  teaspoonfuls  cinnamon. 

One  cup  raisins  seeded,  chopped  and  floured,  added 
the  last  thing. 


MRS.  C.  H.  BALDWIN, 


Jenny  Lind  Cake. 


cup  butter. 


%  cup  sweet  milk. 
2  eggs. 

1  teaspoonful  cream  of  tartar. 


1  cup  sugar. 

2  cups  flour. 

%  teaspoonful  soda. 


CAKE. 


93 


Bake  two  thirds  of  this 
rest  add : 

r  tablespoonful  molasses. 
I  teaspoonful  cinnamon. 
A  little  nutmeg. 


in  two  flat  tins,  and  to  the 

%  cup  raisins. 

i  teaspoonful  cloves. 

MISS  MABY  BROOKS. 


Cocoanut  Cake* 


i  cocoanut,  grated 

3  eggs,  beaten  separately 

4  cups  flour. 

i  teaspoonful  soda. 


3  cups  white  sugar. 
%  cup  butter. 

1  cup  milk. 

2  teaspoonfuls  cream  of  tartar. 

MISS  LUCY  BRADSHAW. 


Ministers'  Cake* 

Six  eggs,  three  cups  of  sugar,  one  cup  of  butter, 
three  cups  of  raised  bread  dough,  spice  to  your  taste, 
raisins,  a  little  soda  and  a  little  flour. 

MRS.  GEO.  W.  WILDER. 


Walnut  or  Butternut  Cake. 


3  cups  flour. 

3  teaspoonfuls  baking  powder 
or  2  teaspoonfuls  cream 
of  tartar  and  i  teaspoon- 
ful of  soda 


1  cup  milk. 

2  cups  sugar. 

3  eggs. 

i  small  cup  of  meats,  either 
walnut  or  butternut,brok- 
en  up. 
teaspoonful  salt. 

Beat  the  butter  and  sugar  together,  beat  separately 
the  yolks  and  whites.  Put  in  the  nuts  after  all  the 
other  ingredients  are  well  mixed.  Bake  in  square  pans. 
Frost  both  cakes,  put  one  above  the  other.  Divide  the 
frosting  on  the  top  cake  into  small  squares  and  put  the 
whole  half  kernel  of  one  nut  into  the  middle  of  each 
square  and  frost  over  them. 

MRS.  JOHN  V.  BEOOKS. 


94 


THE   DEWEY   CCOK  BOOK. 


White  Nut  Cake, 


2  cups  sugar. 

1  cup  milk. 

2  teaspoonfuls  baking-powder. 
Whites  of  6  eggs. 


i  cup  butter. 
3  cups  flour. 

lb.  English  walnut  meats, 
broken. 


Flavor  with  almond.  Frost  the  cake,  and  place 
whole  halves  of  the  nut  on  the  top.  For  the  icing  use 
a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  sugar  to  the  white  of  one  egg. 
Beat  the  white  to  a  froth,  add  the  sugar  and  beat  until 
stiff. 

MISS  .JOSEPHIXE  WOOD. 


Walnut  Cake. 


%  cup  sugar. 

4a  scant  cup  butter. 


2  cups  flour. 


?4  cup 


milk. 


stiff  froth, 
i  teaspoon fu!  cream  of  tartar. 


■o  teaspoonful  soda, 
i  coffee  cup  English  walnuts. 


MBS.  W.  A.  BKIGGS. 


Whites  five  eggs. 


Walnut  Cake. 

I  2  cups  flour. 


CUJ. 

milk. 

cream  of  tartar. 


%  cup  butter. 
}.2  teaspoonful  soda, 
i  large  cup  chopped  walnut 
meats. 


MRS.  T.  C.  PHIXXEY. 


Nut  Cake. 


Whites  □!  four  rggs. 
2  cups  flour. 
%  cup  water 


yz  cup  butter. 
i4i  cups  sugar. 


heaping  teaspoonful  baking- 
i  cup  nut  kernels.  powder. 

Beat  the  butter  to  a  cream.  Add  sugar,  water,  then 
the  flour  into  which  the  baking  powder  has  been  mixed. 
Stir  all  together ;  to  this  add  half  of  the  beaten  whites 
of  eggs,  then  the  nuts,  then  the  remainder  of  the  whites 
of  eggs. 

3IRS.  E.  P.  SMILIE. 


CAKE. 


95 


Raised  Cake* 

\%  cups  bread  sponge.  j  I  cup  sugar. 

%  cup  butter.  ,  t}3  cups  flour. 

2  eggs.  j  Salt — spices. 

Two-thirds  teaspoonful  soda  dissolved  in  a  little 
milk,  one  cup  raisins,  seeded,  halved  and  floured  added 
the  last  thing.  Rise  one-half  or  three-quarters  of  an 
hour. 

G.  R.  H. 


Delicious  Lemon  Jelly  Cake» 

2  cups  sugar.  %  cup  butter. 

1  cup  miJk.  3  cups  flour. 

3  eggs.  i  teaspoonful  soda. 

2  teaspoonfuls  cream  of  tartar. 

Bake  in  three  or  four  shallow  pans. 

Jelly  for  Filling. — Grated  rind  and  juice  of  three 
lemons,  one  cup  of  sugar,  one  egg,  a  little  more  than 
half  a  cup  of  water,  a  piece  of  butter,  one  tablespoonful 
of  flour,  or  more  if  needed  to  thicken.  Simmer,  then 
spread  between  the  layers.  This  cake  is  improved  by 
keeping  a  few  days. 

MRS.  HENRY  UOLTON. 


Snowdrift  Cake* 

2  cups  sugar.  j       cup  butter 


cup  sweet  milk. 
Whites  five  eggs, 
i  teaspoonful  cream  of  tartar. 


3  cups  flour. 

teaspoonful  soda. 


Filling. — Whites  of  two  eggs,  two  small  cups  sugar, 
one  pound  English  walnuts.     Boiled  frosting. 

MRS.  L.  BART  CROSS. 


96 


THE  DEWEY  COOK  BOOK. 


Spice  Cake* 

Two-thirds  of  a  cup  of  butter  or  a  little  more,  a  cup 
and  a  half  of  sugar,  one  cup  of  sweet  milk,  three  cups 
of  flour,  two  eggs,  two  teaspoonfuls  of  baking  powder, 
or  one-half  teaspoonful  of  soda  and  one  teaspoonful  of 
cream  of  tartar,  one  teaspoonful  cinnamon,  half  tea- 
spoonful of  cloves,  half  teaspoonful  of  nutmeg,  one  cup 
of  slightly  chopped  raisins. 


MRS.  HENRY  COLTON. 


Feather  Cake. 


%  cups  flour, 
cup  sugar. 


%  cup  milk. 
3^  teaspoonful  soda. 


2  eggs. 

Butter  the  size  of  a  large  egg. 
%  teaspoonful  cream  of  tartar. 
Salt  to  taste. 


Flavor  with  lemon  or  orange. 

BOSTON  WOMAN'S  EXCHANGE,  (L.  H.  J.) 

Pound  Cake* 


I  lb.  fine  granulated  sugar. 

%  pound  butter. 

%  teaspoonful  cream  of  tartar. 


i  pound  sifted  flour. 
8  eggs. 

3^  teaspoonful  soda. 


Sift  the  cream  of  tartar  and  soda  into  the  flour.  Rub 
the  butter  and  sugar  together  until  very  light,  add  the 
yolks  of  the  eggs,  spices  and  a  part  of  the  flour.  Beat 
the  whites  of  the  eggs  to  a  stiff  froth,  and  add  the  re- 
mainder of  the  flour,  beat  thoroughly.  Bake  in  two 
loaves. 


ij^  cups  sugar, 
i  cup  molasses, 
i  cup  raisins, 
i  cup  strong  coffee, 
i  teaspoonful  soda. 


Coffee  Cake* 


MRS.  T.  C.  PHINNEY. 


i  cup  butter. 
5  cups  flour, 
i  cup  currants. 


2  eggs. 


CAKE. 


97 


One  teaspoonful  each  of  all  kinds  of  spice.  Bake  in 
two  loaves. 


MRS.  C.  A.  SPARROW. 


Caramel  Cake* 


i  cup  sugar. 
%  cup  milk, 
i  teaspoonful  soda. 


2  eggs. 
%  cup  butter. 
2  cups  flour. 

%  teaspoonful  cream  of  tartar. 

Frosting  : — Two  cups  of  sugar,  two-thirds  cup 
of  milk,  butter  the  size  of  an  egg,  flavor  with  vanilla. 
Boil  the  frosting. 

ST.  JOHNSBURY,  (MRS.  T.  J.  DEAVITT). 

Pork  Cake. 


i  pint  molasses, 
i  pound  brown  sugar, 
i  pound  currants. 
}4>  teaspoonful  soda. 


i  lb.  salt  pork,  chopped  fine. 
%  pint  boiling  water,  poured 

on  pork. 
I  pound  raisins. 
%  pound  citron. 

All  kinds  of  spices,  add  flour  to  make  quite  stiff. 
Bake  slowly. 

MRS.  D.  S.  WHEATLET. 


Tea  Cake* 


1  cup  sugar. 
\%  cups  milk. 

2  tablespoonfuls  melted  butter. 
%  teaspoonful  soda. 


1  egg- 

i  %  cups  (pastry)  flour. 

i  teaspoonful  cream  of  tartar. 

A  little  nutmeg. 


MRS.  M.  D.  RHINEHART. 


Soft  Honey  Cake* 

i  cup  strained  honey.  |  %  cup  sugar. 

3^  cup  butter.  2  eggs. 

i  teaspoonful  soda.  |  2)2  cups  flour. 

Bake  in  cup  tins  or  patty  pans. 

MRS.  M.  DU  B.  RHINEHART. 


98 


THE   DEWEY   COOK  BOOK. 


Raspberry  Cake* 

Cream  one-quarter  cup  of  butter,  add  one  cup  of 
sugar,  two  well-beaten  eggs,  one  half  cup  of  milk,  and 
one  and  a  half  cups  of  flour  into  which  one  and  a  half 
teaspoonfuls  of  baking  powder  have  been  well  stirred. 
Bake  in  thin  sheets  and  put  together  with  a  filling 
made  with  the  whites  of  two  eggs  beaten  very  stiff  (so 
that  you  can  turn  the  dish  over)  add  sugar  to  sweeten. 
Crush  one  pint  of  raspberries  to  which  add  the  eggs, 
and  beat  until  very  stiff  and  smooth.  Put  the  filling 
between  the  layers  when  ready  to  serve. 

MRS.  A.  M.  ATKINS. 


White  Mountain  Cake* 


3  cups  flour, 
i  cup  butter. 
3  eggs. 

i  teaspoonful  soda. 


2  cups  sugar. 

1  cup  milk. 

2  teaspoonfuls  cream  of  tartar. 


Cream  the  butter,  add  the  sugar  and  cream  of  tartar, 
mix  thoroughly.  Beat  the  whites  and  yolks  separately, 
add  them,  and  when  well  beaten  add  the  milk  and 
flour.  When  well  mixed,  add  the  soda  dissolved  in  a 
little  milk. 

woman's  exchange,  (l.  h.  J.) 


Election  or  Republican  Cake* 


5  cups  (or)  a  pound  of  flour. 
3^  cups  (or)  one  pound  sugar, 
i  cup  (or)  one-half  pound  butter 
i  cup  sweet  cream  or  milk. 
Cinnamon  and  nutmeg. 


5  eggs. 

%  pound  raisins. 

1  teaspoonful  soda. 

2  teaspoonfuls  cream  of  tartar. 


MISS  MARY  BROOKS. 


CAKE. 


99 


Plain  Fruit  Cake* 


i  cup  sugar, 
i  cup  sour  milk. 

1  teaspoonful  soda. 

2  teaspoonfuls  cinnamon. 


%  cup  butter. 
2  cups  flour, 
i  teaspoonful  cloves, 
i  cup  raisins,  seeded  and 
chopped. 

MRS-  C.  H.  BALDWIN. 


Snow-Flake  Cake* 


\%  cups  sugar. 

3^  cup  sweet  milk. 

i  teaspoonful  cream  of  tartar 

Whites  of  five  eggs. 

Flavor  to  taste. 


3^  cup  butter. 
2  cups  pastry  flour. 
%  teaspoonful  soda 
Juice  half  a  lemon. 


MRS.  T.  C.  PHINNEY. 


White  Sponge  Cake* 

Whites  of  ten  eggs,  tumbler  and  a  half  of  sugar,  one 
tumbler  of  flour,  one  teaspoonful  of  cream  of  tartar. 
Flavor  to  taste. 


Sponge  Cake* 

Beat  the  whites  of  three  eggs  very  stiff,  turn  them 
over  one  cup  of  powdered  sugar,  and  beat  ten  minutes. 
Beat  the  yolks  until  light  and  creamy,  add  one  tea- 
spoonful of  vanilla  and  stir  them  into  the  whites.  Mix 
in  quickly  one  cup  of  sifted  pastry  flour,  with  one-half 
teaspoonful  of  baking-powder,  then  add  two  table- 
spoonfuls  of  boiling  water.  Turn  into  a  buttered  and 
floured  tin.  Sift  powdered  sugar  over  the  top,  and 
pour  on  a  little  cream  with  a  teaspoon,  just  enough  to 
moisten  the  sugar.  Bake  about  half  an  hour.  Turn 
out  on  a  cake  cooler,  and  when  ready  to  serve,  cut 
through  the  crust  only,  and  tear  apart.  The  moistened 
sugar  gives  a  crust  something  like  macaroons. 

MRS.  HIRAM  CARI.ETON. 


IOO 


THE   DEWEY   COOK  BOOK. 


Lady  Fingers  or  Sponge  Drops* 


%  cup  sugar. 

%  saltspoonful  salt. 


4  eggs. 

I  scant  cup  flour. 
Juice  and  rind  of  half  a  lemon. 

Beat  the  yolks  until  light,  add  the  sugar,  and  the 
grated  rind  of  the  lemon,  which  has  been  mixed  with 
the  sugar,  then  the  lemon  juice,  the  stiffly  beaten  whites 
and  lastly  fold  in  lightly  the  flour.  Do  not  beat  after 
adding  the  flour.  Bake  in  lady  finger  tins,  or  drop  by 
spoonfuls  on  buttered  tin  sheets.  Sprinkle  with 
powdered  sugar,  and  bake  in  a  very  slow  oven. 

MRS.  G.  R.  H. 

Sponge  Cake  Lady  Fingers* 

One-half  a  cup  of  sugar,  two-thirds  of  a  cup  of  flour, 
and  a  tablespoonful  of  sweet  cream.  Bake  in  lady 
finger  tins. 


MRS.  J.  D. 


Velvet  Sponge  Cake* 

i  cup  flour.  i  i  cup  sugar, 

1  teaspoonful  baking-powder,    j  i  teaspoonful  lemon  extract. 

2  eggs.  I  %  scant  cup  boiling  water. 

Sift  the  baking  powder  with  one-half  of  the  flour. 
Beat  the  eggs  very  light,  add  sugar  and  flavoring,  beat 
again  thoroughly  ;  then  add  the  half  cup  of  flour  with- 
out the  baking-powder;  beat  very  hard,  add  the  flour 
and  baking-powder  and  gradually  stir  in  the  boiling 
water. 

MRS.  T.  A.  SHERBURNE. 

Berwick  Cake. 

Take  six  eggs,  beat  five  minutes,  add  three  cups 
sugar,  beat  three  minutes ;  add  two  cups  flour,  beat  two 


CAKE.  IOI 

minutes  ;  add  one  cup  water,  beat  one  minute  ;  add  two 
cups  of  flour  to  which  has  been  added  two  teaspoonfuls 
of  baking  powder,  beat  thoroughly  and  flavor  with 
lemon. 

MRS.  J.  W.  CLARK. 

Chocolate  Frosting* 


I  egg- 

i  square  melted  chocolate. 
I  cup  confectioner's  sugar. 


i  tablespoonful  milk, 
Vanilla  to  taste. 


MRS.  C  H.  BALDWIN. 


Soft  Frosting* 

To  one  cup  of  sugar  add  one-half  cup  of  water  and 
boil  until  it  will  harden  in  cold  water.  Then  pour  this 
on  the  whites  of  two  eggs,  which  have  been  beaten 
light,  and  stir  thoroughly. 


MRS.  J.  W.  CLARK. 


COOKIES. 


Ginger  Snaps. 

Boil  together  one  pint  of  confectioners'  molasses,  one 
cup  of  butter,  and  one  teaspoonful  of  soda.  When  cold, 
add  one  level  teaspoonful  of  ginger,  one  teaspoonful  of 
cloves,  and  as  much  flour  as  you  can  roll  in. 

MISS  M.  D.  WHITE. 

Ginger  Snaps. 

%  cup  butter  and  lard  mixed,    j  I  cup  brown  sugar. 

%  cup  sweet  milk.  %  cup  molasses. 

i  teaspoonful  soda.  |  %  teaspoonful  ginger. 

Flour  enough  to  roll  thin. 

MISS  MABY  BEOOKS. 

Ginger  Snaps. 

One  cup  of  molasses,  one  cup  of  butter,  and  a  table- 
spoonful  of  ginger  boiled  ten  minutes.  Add  one  tea- 
spoonful of  soda,  dissolved  in  a  little  hot  water.  Flour 
enough  to  make  a  stiff  dough,  roll  very  thin  and  cut  in 
odd  shaped  pieces. 

MES.  C.  H.  BALDWIN. 

Thin  Ginger  Cookies. 

To  one  cup  of  sugar  add  one  cup  of  butter,  two  cups 


COOKIES.  IO3 

of  molasses,  one-half  a  cup  of  water,  two  tablespoonfuls 
of  ginger,  two  teaspoonfuls  of  soda,  and  six  cups  of 
flour. 

MRS.  A.  W.  SLOCUM. 

Hard  Gingerbread* 

3  eggs.  1  cup  sugar. 

%  cup  butter  Ginger  to  taste. 

1  teaspoonful  soda  in  %  cup      2  teaspoonfuls  cream  of  tartar, 
warm  water. 

Flour  enough  to  roll  out  thin.  Sift  and  roll  in  pul- 
verized sugar  and  bake  in  quick  oven.  This  is  good  for 
cookies  by  leaving  out  ginger  and  adding  nutmeg  or 
other  flavor  to  taste. 

MRS.  J.  V.  BROOKS. 


New  York  Gingerbread. 

1  cup  sugar.  %  cup  butter. 

l%  eggs.  %  teaspoonful  salt. 

i34  teaspoonfuls  ginger.  2.%  cups  flour. 

^  pint  milk,  half  sweet,  half      1  teaspoonful  soda, 
sour. 

Beat  well  together  the  sugar,  butter,  eggs,  and  salt. 
Add  the  balance  of  the  ingredients  and  bake. 

MRS.  EDWARD  DEWEY. 


Drop  Molasses  Cookies. 

%  cup  sugar.  1  %  cup  butter. 

1  egg.  %  cup  clear  coffee. 

1  cup  molasses.  1  I  tablespoonful  soda. 

7.%  cups  unsifted  flour.  |  1  tablespoonful  ginger 

MT?S    T.  TR4T?T 


MRS.  L.  BART  CROSS. 


Jumbles. 

1  cup  butter.  2  cups  sugar. 

1  cup  milk.  3  eggs. 

1  teaspoonful  cream  of  tartar.      %  teaspoonful  soda. 

Flour  to  roll  out.  Salt  and  spice  to  taste. 

MRS.  T.  J.  DEAVITT. 


THE   DEWEY  COOK  BOOK. 


Jumbles* 

3  cups  sugar.  2  eggs. 

1  cup  sweet  milk.  1  cup  butter. 

2  teaspoonfuls  soda.  4  teaspoonfuls  cream  of  tartar. 
Flavor  with  nutmeg  or  lemon. 

Put  the  cream  of  tartar  in  the  milk  and  mix  with  just 
flour  enough  to  roll.  Before  cutting  out  sift  over  some 
pulverized  sugar,  and  bake  in  a  quick  oven.  Always 
good  unless  too  much  flour  is  used. 

MRS.  M.  DU  B.  RHINEHART. 


Graham  Cookies* 

One  cup  of  brown  sugar,  halt  a  cup  of  butter,  half  a 
cup  of  warm  water  and  half  a  teaspoonful  of  soda. 
Flour  to  roll. 


MRS.  W  A.  BRIGGS. 


Cream  Cookies* 


2  eggs. 

1  cup  butter. 

%  teaspoonful  soda. 


2  cups  sugar. 

1  cup  sour  cream. 

1  teaspoonful  caraway  seeds. 


Mix  and  add  flour  to  make  stiff  enough  to  roll.  This 
makes  forty  cookies. 


MRS.  EATHERINE  CHAPMAN. 


Cream  Cookies. 

1%  cups  thick  sour  cream.        (  \%  cups  sugar. 

1  egg.  1  teaspoonful  salt. 

1  teaspoonful  saleratus.  I  1  teaspoonful  caraway  seed. 

Roll  quite  thin.  This  will  make  from  forty  to  fifty 
cookies. 

MRS.  J.  W.  CLARK. 


COOKIES.  IO5 


Cocoanut 

1  cup  sugar. 
1  egg. 

1  tablespoonful  cream  of  tartar. 

2  heaping  cups  flour. 
1  cup  cocoanut. 


Cookies* 

%  cup  butter. 
2  tablespoonfuls  milk. 
%  teaspoonful  soda. 
A  little  salt. 

MRS.  J.  M.  POLAND. 


Hard  Honey  Cake  or  Cookies* 

2  cups  honey.  |  1  cup  sugar. 
1  cup  butter.  I  3  eggs. 

3  teaspoonfuls  saleratus.  1  Flour  to  roll. 

MRS.  M.  DUB.  RHINEHART. 


Drop  Cookies* 

2  cups  sugar.  2  eggs. 

cup  butter.  1  cup  sour  milk. 

1  teaspoonful  soda.  4  cups  flour. 

Drop  from  spoon  into  the  baking-pan,  and  put  three 

or  four  stoned  raisins  on  top  of  each. 

MRS.  GEO.  W.  WILDER. 


Cookies* 

1  cup  sugar.  1  cup  butter. 

1)^  teaspoonfuls  cream  of  tartar.    1  teaspoonful  soda. 

2  eggs.  Extract  of  lemon. 

This  makes  from  forty  to  fifty  cookies. 

MISS  MARY  BROOKS. 


Hermits  or  Fruit  Cookies. 

1  cup  molasses. 


2  cups  sugar. 
6  figs,  chopped  fine. 

3  eggs. 

1  nutmeg,  grated. 
1  teaspoonful  cinnamon. 
1  cup  raisins,  stoned  and 
chopped. 

Dissolve  the  soda  in  the  milk  before  adding.  Roll  a 
quarter  of  an  inch  thick.     Bake  in  rather  a  quick  oven. 

MISS  M.  D.  WHITE. 


1  cup  English  currants. 
3  tablespoonfuls  milk. 
1  teaspoonful  cloves. 
5  cups  flour,  well  sifted. 
)4  teaspoonful  soda. 


io6 


THE   DEWEY   COOK  BOOK. 


Hermits. 


2  eggs. 

i%  cups  brown  sugar. 

3  tablespoonfuls  milk. 
%  teaspoonful  soda. 
Cinnamon  and  cloves. 

Roll  thin  like  cookies. 


%  cup  butter. 
I  cup  currants. 


teaspoonful  cream  of  tartar, 
i  teaspoonful  nutmeg. 


MISS  MARY  BROOKS- 


Hermits* 


I  cup  butter. 

cup  milk, 
i  heaping  teaspoonful  cinnamon 
I  heaping  teaspoonful  cloves. 


1  %  cups  sugar. 

2  eggs. 

i  even  teaspoonful  soda, 
i  cup  chopped  raisins. 

MRS.  HENRY  COLTON. 


Miracles. 

Four  eggs,  five  tablespoonfuls  of  sugar,  and  butter 
the  size  of  an  egg.  Mix  very  stiff.  Roll  the  dough 
about  a  quarter  of  an  inch  thick,  cut  in  strands  a  quar- 
ter of  an  inch  wide  and  four  inches  long.  Braid  loose- 
ly in  four  strands  and  fry  in  hot  lard.    Dust  with  sugar. 

Date  Cookies* 

i  cup  sugar.  I  %  cup  butter. 

i  cup  dates,  chopped  fine.  i  egg. 

%  teaspoonful  vanilla.  cup  milk. 

i  teaspoonful  soda.  J  2  teaspoonfuls  cream  of  tartar. 

Use  flour  enough  to  roll  without  sticking,  and  bake 
in  a  quick  oven. 

MRS.  C.  G.  DOWNING. 

Coventry  Cakes. 

I  quart  flour.  I  tablespoonful  lard. 

3  tablespoonfuls  butter.  I  teaspoonful  salt. 

i%  teaspoonfuls  baking-powder    i%  cups  sweet  milk. 


COOKIES. 


Rub  the  butter  and  lard  into  the  flour  as  lightly  and 
quickly  as  possible,  add  the  salt  and  baking  powder. 
Mix  well,  moisten  with  the  milk.  Roll  out  on  a  board 
about  half  an  inch  thick,  spread  with  butter  and  maple 
sugar,  roll  up,  cut  off  in  slices,  about  half  an  inch  thick, 
put  on  buttered  tins  and  bake  in  a  quick  oven. 

MRS.  P.  J.  BLACKWELL. 

Vanilla  Wafers. 

i  cup  sugar.  I  %  cup  butter, 

i  egg.  4  tablespoonfuls  milk. 

\%  teaspoonfuls  cream  of  tartar  i  %  teaspoonful  soda, 
i  teaspoonful  vanilla. 

Roll  as  thin  as  possible  and  bake  in  a  quick  oven. 

MRS  C.  G.  DOWNING. 

Nut  Cakes* 

Seven  ounces  of  walnut  meats  pounded  fine,  and 
seven  ounces  of  brown  sugar  mixed  with  one  egg, 
using  only  flour  enough  to  make  into  small  thin  cakes 
with  the  hands.     Bake  a  few  minutes. 

MISS  LUCY  BRADSHAW. 

Almond  "Wafers. 

Cream  half  a  cupful  of  butter,  add  slowly  one  cup- 
ful of  powdered  sugar,  and  half  a  cupful  of  milk,  drop 
by  drop  ;  then  add  two  cupfuls  of  pastry  flour,  and  half 
a  teaspoonful  of  vanilla  extract.  Spread  very  thin  on 
the  bottom  of  a  dripping  pan,  inverted  and  buttered, 
mark  in  squares,  sprinkled  with  blanched  almonds 
chopped  fine.  Bake  in  a  moderate  oven  about  five 
minutes.  As  soon  as  baked  place  pan  on  back  of  range, 
and  roll  wafers  into  tubular  or  cornucopia  shape  while 


> 


io8 


THE    DEWEY   COOK  BOOK. 


warm.  For  Jersey  lilies,  omit  the  chopped  almonds, 
roll  one  end  of  the  cornucopia  very  tight,  the  other  end 
quite  loosely  ;  bend  back  the  point  of  the  loose  end,  and 
just  before  serving  fill  the  open  space  with  whipped 
cream,  sweetened  and  flavored  before  whipping. 

MISS  E.  M.  BAILEY. 

Calla  Lilly  Cake* 

2  eggs.  i  cup  sugar. 

*4  cup  cold  water.  '   \%  cups  flour. 

2  teaspoonfuls  baking-powder.      I  pinch  salt. 

Drop  a  spoonful  at  a  time  on  tins,  and  when  baked 
roll  like  a  Calla  lily,  and  fill  with  jelly  or  whipped  cream. 
Very  nice. 

MBS.  L.  BART  CROSS. 


PRESERVES. 


Chipped  Pears. 

8  pounds  pears.  I  8  pounds  sugar. 

6  lemons.  j  %  lb.  crystalized  ginger. 

Peel  the  pears  and  cut  them  into  small  pieces.  Chop 
the  lemons  and  ginger.    Cook  all  together  two  hours. 

MRS.  C.  A.  GALE. 


Chipped  Pear. 


8  pounds  pears. 

6  lemons. 

i  tumbler  water. 


8  pounds  granulated  sugar. 
%  pound  green  ginger. 


Slice  the  pears  and  cut  into  small  pieces,  scrape  and 
cut  the  ginger  into  small  shavings.  Put  the  pears, 
ginger,  sugar  and  water  over  a  moderate  fire,  and  cook 
about  an  hour  and  a  half,  or  until  the  fruit  begins  to 
look  transparent.  Then  add  the  yellow  part  of  two  or 
three  lemons,  shredded  in  very  small  pieces,  taking  care 
not  to  use  any  of  the  white.  Cook  perhaps  a  half  hour 
longer.  Add  the  juice  and  pulp  of  the  six  lemons  and 
cook  a  few  minutes.  Then  remove  from  the  fire  and 
can  while  hot. 

MRS.  J.  C.  HOUGHTON. 


I  IO 


THE   DEWEY   COOK  BOOK. 


Currant  Conserve* 

5  pounds  currants.  I  4  pounds  sugar. 

2  pounds  raisins.  |  2  oranges. 

Stone  the  raisins,  add  to  the  other  ingredients,  and 
cook  until  quite  thick.    Delicious  with  meats. 


MRS.  HIRAM  CARLETON. 


Spiced  Strawberries* 


7  pounds  strawberries. 

1  ounce  of  cloves. 

1  ounce  stick  cinnamon. 


5%  pounds  brown  sugar. 
1%  pints  vinegar. 


Place  the  berries  and  spices  in  alternate  layers  in  a 
deep  bowl.  Boil  the  sugar  and  vinegar  three  minutes; 
pour  this  over  the  fruit  while  hot.  The  next  day  drain 
off  the  liquor  and  boil  it  three  minutes,  and  pour  it 
over  the  berries.  The  third  day  boil  all  together,  over 
a  slow  fire,  for  half  an  hour. 

BOSTON  WOMAN'S  EXCHANGE,  (L.  H.  J.) 

Apple  Ginger* 


2  ounces  ginger  root. 
2  sliced  lemons. 


5  pounds  sour  apples  cut  in 

small  pieces 
5  pounds  sugar. 

Make  a  syrup  of  the  sugar  and  pour  over  the  apples. 
Boil  all  together  until  a  clear,  rich  yellow. 

MRS.  HENRY  COLTON. 


Orange  Marmalade. 

Twelve  bitter  oranges,  two  sweet  oranges  and  two 
lemons,  weigh  altogether,  slice  very  fine,  remove  and 
save  the  seeds.  To  every  pound  of  fruit,  add  two 
quarts  of  water,  let  it  stand  over  night.  Boil  two 
hours,  with  the  seeds  tied  in  a  muslin  bag.    Then  take 


PRESERVES. 


Ill 


out  the  seeds,  and  to  every  pint  of  liquor  add  one  and 
a  quarter  pounds  of  sugar.  Boil  three-quarters  of  an 
hour. 

MRS.  HENRY  COLTON. 

Orange  Marmalade* 

S  sour,  juicy  oranges.  i  4  lemons. 

8  pounds  granulated  sugar.         (  8  pints  water. 

Wash  the  oranges  and  cut  into  the  thinnest  possible 
slices,  removing  the  seeds,  cutting  the  slices  into  tiny 
bits.  Put  the  oranges  into  the  water  and  let  them  re- 
main thirty-six  hours,  then  boil  steadily  in  the  same 
water  for  two  hours,  without  the  sugar.  After  adding 
the  sugar  boil  for  two  hours  longer,  or  until  clear.  As 
soon  as  the  sugar  melts  after  being  added  to  the  fruit, 
add  the  grated  peel  of  the  lemons.  Half  an  hour  be- 
fore it  has  finished  boiling  add  the  lemon  juice.  This 
quantity  makes  from  twelve  to  fifteen  tumblers  of  mar- 
malade. 

MISS  MARY  G.  DEWEY. 

Tutti-Frutti* 

Pour  one  pint  of  good  brandy  into  a  stone  jar ;  into 
this  put  one  pound  of  sugar,  with  one  pound  of  straw- 
berries, cover  and  set  away  in  a  cool  place,  stirring 
each  morning  until  the  sugar  is  dissolved.  Add  to  this 
one  pound  of  sugar  with  one  pound  of  each  kind  of  fruit 
as  it  is  in  season,  stirring  well  each  time.  Use  only  one 
pint  of  brandy  for  the  whole  mixture.  Apples  and  pears 
should  be  cut  into  small  pieces  and  steamed  a  little, 
before  being  added.  Other  fruit  like  pineapples, 
plums,  and  peaches  should  be  pared  and  cut  into  small 
pieces.    Do  not  use  blackberries,  currants  or  blueber- 


112 


THE   DEWEY   COOK  BOOK. 


ries.  A  little  fresh  fruit,  with  sugar  in  proportion,  can 
be  added  at  any  time.  When  all  kinds  of  fruit  have 
been  used,  put  in  a  kettle  and  cook  until  heated  through,, 
then  put  in  glass  jars. 

MRS.  CHARLES  DEWEY. 

Boiled  Gder  Apple  Sauce* 

To  one  peck  of  sweet  apples,  pared,  cored  and  cut  in 
slices,  about  one  good  inch  wide,  allow  one  quart  of 
boiled  cider.  Heat  the  cider  to  boiling,  add  the  apples 
a  few  at  a  time,  that  the}-  may  not  be  broken.  Cook 
very  slowly,  without  stirring,  until  soft.  If  the  cider 
boils  away  too  much,  add  more.  When  all  of  the 
apples  are  cooked, pour  the  cider  over  them ;  there 
should  be  enough  to  cover  the  apples.  Be  careful 
that  the  apples  do  not  stick  to  the  kettle  while  cooking. 


PICKLES. 


Pickled  Peaches* 

Pare  seven  pounds  of  peaches.  Dissolve  three  and1 
one-half  pounds  of  sugar  in  one  pint  of  vinegar,  add  a. 
tablespoonful  of  cloves,  a  tablespoonful  of  allspice  and 
two  tablespoonfuls  of  cinnamon.  Put  in  the  peaches, 
and  boil  until  you  can  pierce  them  through  with  a  wisp.. 
Take  out  the  peaches  with  care  so  as  to  keep  them 
whole.  Boil  the  syrup  until  quite  thick,  and  then  pour 
over  the  peaches. 


MRS.  J.  M.  POLAND. 


Spiced  Currants* 


5  pounds  currants. 

4  pounds  brown  sugar. 

i  pint  vinegar. 


2  tablespoonfuls  cinnamon. 
1 3^2  tablespoonfuls  cloves. 


Boil  two  hours  or  until  quite  thick. 


MRS.  D.  S.  WHEATLEY. 


Sweet  Cucumber  Pickles* 

Take  fully  ripe  cucumbers,  pare  them,  cut  length- 
wise, and  take  out  the  seeds.  Put  them  into  a  weak 
brine  over  night.  In  the  morning  drain,  boil  until 
tender,  in  a  weak  solution  of  vinegar  and  water,  drain, 
again,  and  put  into  jars.    Turn  over  them  a  hot  syrup,, 


THE   DEWEY   COOK  BOOK. 


-made  as  follows  : — Allow  to  each  pound  of  fruit  half  a 
pound  of  sugar ;  and  one  pint  of  vinegar  to  each  four 
pounds  of  fruit.  Boil  the  vinegar  and  sugar  a  few 
minutes,  then  add  mace,  cinnamon,  and  cloves  to  taste. 
L,et  it  boil  a  few  minutes  and  remove  the  scum.  This 
rule  is  equally  good  for  green  tomatoes,  canteloupe, 
peaches,   and  other  fruit. 

MRS.  HARRY  COLTON. 

Sweet  Pickled  Tomatoes* 

One  peck  of  green  tomatoes  and  six  large  onions ; 
slice,  and  strew  over  them  a  cup  of  salt.  Let  them  re- 
main over  night ;  drain  off.     Then  take 

4  quarts  vinegar.  i  2  pounds  brown  sugar. 

2  tablespoonfuls  allspice.  pound  white  mustard  seed. 

2  tablespoonfuls  cloves.  I  2  tablespoonfuls  ginger. 

2  tablespoonfuls  cinnamon.  2  tablespoonfuls  mustard. 

1  teaspoonful  cayenne  pepper. 

Boil  fifteen  minutes,  or  twenty  minutes  at  the  most. 
Add  four  or  five  red  peppers,  and  a  little  horseradish. 

MISS  J.  M.  HOUGHTON. 

Tomato  Belle. 

Peel  seven  pounds  ripe  tomatoes,  add  three  pounds 
of  sugar,  and  a  pint  of  vinegar.  Boil  all  together  for 
three  hours. 

MRS.  HEXRI  COLTON. 

Sweet  Pickled  Tomatoes* 

One  peck  of  green  tomatoes  cut  up  in  small  pieces, 
let  them  stand  over  night,  with  one  cup  of  salt  mixed 
with  them.  In  the  morning  strain  off  the  water,  put  in 
a.  kettle  and  add  one  quart  of  onions  (cut  medium  fine) 
three  green  peppers   cut  fine,   one   cauliflower  picked 


PICKLES. 


into  small  pieces,  two  cups  of  sugar,  six  tablespoonfuls 
of  cloves,  cinnamon  and  allspice  (use  unground  spice 
and  put  into  small  bags),  add  white  pepper  to  suit  the 
taste,  and  enough  vinegar  to  barely  cover.  Cook 
slowly  for  one  hour. 

MRS.  C.  H.  BALDWIN. 

Cucumber  Pickles* 


200  small  cucumbers. 
1  ounce  cloves. 

1  gallon  vinegar,  or  enough  to 
cover. 


1  ounce  cinnamon. 

1  ounce  allspice. 

2  ounces  mustard  seed. 


Put  the  cucumbers  in  a  jar  and  alternate  in  layers 
with  eight  green  peppers,  cut  into  strips,  eight  table- 
spoonfuls  of  salt  and  half  an  ounce  of  alum.  Boil  the 
vinegar  and  spices  together  and  pour  over  the  cucum- 
bers. Use  whole  spices.  With  good  vinegar  they  will 
keep  two  years.  One-quarter  of  a  teaspoonful  of  cay- 
enne pepper,  put  in  a  bag,  can  be  substituted  tor  the 
green  peppers. 

MRS.  M.  DU  B.  RHINEHART. 

Tomato  Pickles* 

Gather  full  grown  green  tomatoes  ;  pare  them  very 
thin,  make  a  strong  ginger  tea,  into  which  drop  your 
fruit,  scald  well  and  remove.  For  each  two  pounds  of 
tomatoes  take  one  pound  of  sugar,  and  one  pint  of  good 
vinegar,  make  a  syrup  and  drop  in  the  tomatoes.  Let 
them  cook  until  perfectly  clear.  Add  cinnamon,  mace 
and  white  ginger. 

MRS.  E.  P.  JEWETT. 

Tomato  Catsup. 

Cut  up  half  a  bushel  of  tomatoes,  boil  until  cooked 
enough  to  strain  through  a  sieve,  then  add  -one   pint  of 


n6 


THE   DEWEY   COOK  BOOK. 


vinegar,  one  cup  of  sugar,  half  a  cup  of  salt,  a  teaspoon- 
ful  of  mustard,  a  pinch  of  cayenne,  two  tablespoonfuls. 
of  allspice,  two  tablespoonfuls  of  cinnamon,  and  two 
tablespoonfuls  of  cloves.    Boil  until  thick. 

MRS.  J.  M.  POLAND. 

Tomato  Catsup. 

Cut  the  tomatoes  into  small  pieces,  and  stew  until 
they  can  be  strained  through  a  sieve  ;  then  to  each  five 
quarts  of  pulp,  add  three  and  a  third  wine  glassfuls  of 
salt,  three  and  a  third  tumblerfuls  of  vinegar,  one  and 
a  quarter  teaspoonfuls  of  allspice,  one  and  a  quarter  tea- 
spoonfuls  of  cloves,  one  teaspoonful  of  cayenne,  two  and 
a  half  teaspoonfuls  of  mustard,  two  and  a  half  teaspoon- 
fuls of  ginger,  and  five  or  six  onions  cut  fine  and  boiled 
until  soft.  Proportions  for  one  quart  of  pulp  are  : — 
Two-thirds  of  a  wine  glassful  of  salt,  two-thirds  of  a 
tumblerful  of  vinegar,  one-half  a  teaspoonful  each  of 
mustard  and  ginger,  one-quarter  teaspoonful  each  of  all- 
spice and  cloves,  a  little  less  of  cayenne  pepper  and  one 
large  onion. 

MRS.  EDWARD  DEWEY. 

Tomato  Catsup* 

i  gallon  stewed  tomatoes.         I  4  tablespoonfuls  salt. 

4  tablespoonfuls  pepper.  |  3  tablespoonfuls  mustard. 

Simmer  slowly  in  sharp  vinegar  for  four  hours.  Then 
strain  and  bottle. 

MRS.  T.  J.  DEAVITT. 

Relish. 

ROASTED   PEPPERS   FOR   IMMEDIATE  USE. 

Roast  on  dull  coals,  six  green  bell  peppers,  turning- 
until  black  all  over,  remove  from  the  fire  with  a  fork 


PICKLES. 


II7 


driven  firmly  through  the  core.  Scrape  off  the  black 
and  remove  the  core  and  seeds,  handling  with  a  fork  or 
spoon.  Cut  in  strips  or  pieces,  wash  in  cold  water,  and 
place  in  a  brine  made  of  a  quart  of  cold  water  to  two 
heaping  tablespoonfuls  of  salt.  Let  stand  over  night. 
In  the  morning  throw  off  the  brine,  and  cover  with  cold 
vinegar.    In  five  or  six  hours  they  will  be  ready  for  use. 

MRS.  J.  A.  DE  BOER. 

A  Pickle  for  Meats* 

For  every  one  hundred  pounds  of  fresh  meat  use  five 
pounds  of  coarse  salt,  one  ounce  saltpetre,  three  pounds 
of  sugar  and  one  pint  of  molasses.  Dissolve  all  togeth- 
er. When  cool  add  water  enough  to  cover  the  meat. 
Shake  the  barrel  frequently  to  keep  the  brine  sweet. 

MISS  M.  D.  WHITE. 


FOR  THE  CHAFING  DISH. 


"Small  cheer  and  a  great  welcome 
makes  a  merry  feast." 

Comedy  of  Errors ,  iiii,  I. 

Oyster  Pan  Roast. 

i  dozen  large  oysters.  I  tablespoonful  butter. 

%  pint  oyster  juice.  2  slices  toast. 

Salt  and  pepper. 

Put  the  butter  in  the  chafing  dish;  as  it  creams  add 
oysters  and  juice  :  season  with  salt  and  pepper.  Cover 
and  cook  two  minutes.  Serve  on  hot  toast  moistened, 
with  juice. 

MISS  CLARA  ADAMS. 

Oysters  a  la  Dttxelles. 

Melt  one  tablespoonful  of  butter,  add  two  tablespoon- 
fuls  of  chopped  mushroons.  Cook  two  minutes,  then 
add  one  teaspoonful  of  flour  and  a  pint  of  oysters  :  cook 
until  the  edges  curl.  Add  a  few  drops  of  onion  juice, 
a  little  cayenne,  half  a  tablespoonful  each,  of  lemon 
juice  and  salt,  and  the  beaten  yolk  of  an  egg.  Cook 
until  it  thickens,  then  serve  on  toasted  crackers. 

MISS  CLARA  ADAMS. 


FOR   THE  CHAFING  DISH. 


Creamed  Chicken* 


2  cups  cold  chicken,  cut  into 

small  pieces, 
i  cup  milk  or  cream, 
i  heaping  tablespoonful  flour. 


1  cup  chicken  stock. 

2  tablespoonfuls  butter. 
Salt  and  pepper. 


Cook  the  butter  and  flour  together  in  the  chafing 
dish,  add  the  stock  and  milk  and  stir  until  smooth. 
Put  in  the  chicken,  salt  and  pepper  and  cook  three- 
minutes  longer. 


MISS  CLARA  ADAMS. 


Scrambled  Eggs  and  Tomatoes, 

Cook  half  a  can  of  tomatoes  with  half  a  teaspoonful 
of  sugar  for  ten  minutes.  Put  two  tablespoonfuls  of 
butter  into  the  chafing  dish  with  one  slice  of  onion,  and 
cook  three  minutes.  Remove  the  onion  and  add  the 
tomatoes,  when  hot  add  six  slightly  beaten  eggs,  half  a 
teaspoonful  of  salt,  and  a  little  pepper ;  cook  until  it 
thickens.  Fresh  tomatoes  can  be  used,  but  should  be 
cooked  longer  in  the  butter. 


MISS  CLARA  M.  ADAMS. 


Barbecued  Ham, 


I  tablespoonful  butter. 

i  tablespoonful  tomato  catsup. 

i  slice  ham. 


2  teaspoonful  made  mustard, 
tablespoonful  sherry. 


Put  all  but  the  ham  in  the  chafing  dish.  When  at 
steaming  point  add  the  ham.  Cook  both  sides  about 
two  minutes. 


MRS.  MORRIS  F.  ATKINS. 


Anchovy  Canapes, 

2  hard  boiled  eggs.  i  Stale  bread. 

I  tablespoonful  butter.  |  Anchovy  paste. 


1 20 


THE   DEWEY   COOK  BOOK. 


Cut  the  bread  into  strips  six  inches  long,  half  an  inch 
wide  and  a  quarter  of  an  inch  thick.  Fry  the  bread  in 
clarified  butter  until  a  golden  brown.  When  cool  cover 
with  the  anchovy  paste.  Chop  the  eggs  fine,  separat- 
ing the  whites  from  the  yolks.  Put  a  layer  of  egg, 
then  a  layer  of  paste,  making  a  mound  of  whites  and 
yolks. 

MRS.  MORRIS  F.  ATKINS. 

Pineapple  Toast* 

Preserved  pineapple,  (canned).   Stale  sponge  cake. 
A  wineglassful  sherry.  A  lump  of  butter. 

A  sprinkle  of  sugar. 

Drain  the  syrup  from  the  pineapple,  trim  pieces  to 
nice  shape  and  size.  Cut  as  many  pieces  of  cake  as  of 
pineapple  and  trim.  Melt  the  butter  and  put  in  the 
cake,  and  fry  to  a  light  brown.  Drain  the  cake  and 
leave  until  cold,  then  arrange  on  a  fancy  dish,  alternat- 
ing with  pineapple.  Mix  the  syrup  and  sherry,  pour 
over  and  serve. 

MRS.  MORRIS  F.  ATKINS. 

Tomato  Omelet* 

3  eg&s-  2  tablespoonfuls  milk. 

1  tablespoonful  butter.  1  teaspoonful  onion  juice. 

%  taaspoonful  salt.  1  tomato. 

34  teaspoonful  pepper.  Dash  of  cayenne. 

Beat  eggs  and  milk  together  slightly,  season  with 
salt  and  pepper,  add  very  solid  pieces  of  tomato  cut  in 
dice,  add  the  onion  juice.  Put  the  butter  in  a  chafing 
dish  and  when  hot  add  the  above  mixture.  Hold  dish 
-above  the  flame,  scrape  the  bottom  of  the  dish  to  keep 
.from  burning,  season  with  cayenne  and  serve. 

MRS.  MORRIS  F.  ATKINS. 


FOR  THE   CHAFING  DISH. 


121 


Clams  Epicurean, 


12  small  hard  clams. 

i  tablespoonful  sherry. 

i  teaspoonful  Worcestershire 


I  teaspoonful  butter. 
6  Boston  crackers. 
Cayenne. 


Put  the  butter  in  a  chafing  dish  with  a  dash  of  cay- 
enne, melt,  add  the  clams.  Simmer  five  minutes.  Add 
sherry  and  Worcestershire  sauce,  and  serve  on  toasted, 
buttered  crackers. 

MRS.  MORRIS  F.  ATKINS- 

Scotch  Woodcock* 


i  tablespoonful  butter. 

i  cup  milk  (hot). 

I  tablespoonful  anchovy  paste. 


i  tablespoonful  flour. 
6  hard  boiled  eggs. 


Make  a  sauce  with  the  butter,  flour  and  milk.  Chop 
the  eggs  in  a  soup  plate,  with  a  silver  knife,  add  paste, 
then  eggs  to  the  sauce.    Serve  on  toast. 

MRS.  MORRIS  F.  ATKINS. 


Cheese  Fondue, 


I  tablespoonful  butter, 
i  cup  fine  bread  crumbs. 
I  saltspoonful  dry  mustard. 
Dash  of  cayenne. 


1  cup  milk. 

2  cups  grated  cheese. 
2  beaten  eggs. 


Put  the  butter  in  a  cutlet  dish,  when  melted,  add  the 
cup  of  milk,  bread  crumbs,  cheese,  salt,  mustard  and 
cayenne,  stir  constantly.  Before  serving  add  the  well- 
beaten  eggs. 

MRS.  MORRIS  F.  ATKINS. 


BEVERAGES. 


Coffee. 


Scald  the  coffee-pot,  into  it  put  twice  as  many  level 
tablespoonfuls  of  ground  coffee  as  there  are  cups  to  be 
served.  Add  the  white  of  an  egg  (the  white  of  one 
egg  will  clear  six  tablespoonfuls  of  coffee) .  Allow 
one  tablespoonful  of  cold  water  for  each  cup,  mix 
thoroughly ;  add  required  cups  of  boiling  water,  and 
boil  five  minutes.  Then  pour  a  quarter  of  a  cup  of 
cold  water  down  the  spout  of  the  coffee-pot  to  clear  it 
of  any  grounds,  stir  in  one  tablespoonful  of  fresh  coffee, 
and  set  the  pot  where  it  will  keep  hot,  without  simmer- 
ing, for  ten  minutes  longer.  Be  sure  the  spout  of  the 
coffee-pot  is  kept  tightly  closed  all  the  time. 


Tea  should  be  made  from  boiling,  not  boiled  water. 
Scald  the  tea-pot,  which  should  be  of  earthen  ware, 
allow  one  teaspoonful  of  tea  to  each  cup  to  be  made. 
Pour  on  it  the  boiling  water  and  let  it  stand  five 
minutes. 


Tea. 


German  Chocolate. 


2  squares  chocolate. 

2  tablespoonfuls  cornstarch. 


1  egg. 


i  pint  hot  water. 
I  pint  milk. 
%  cup  sugar. 


BEVERAGES. 


I23 


Add  the  chocolate  to  the  hot  milk  and  water  before 
they  boil ;  add  the  sugar  and  stir  frequently.  Dissolve 
the  cornstarch  in  a  half-cup  of  the  cold  milk  and  when 
the  chocolate  boils  add  and  let  it  boil  up  again.  Break 
the  egg  in  a  large  bowl,  add  one-half  a  cup  of  water, 
beat  thoroughly  until  it  all  froths,  add  one  tablespoonful 
of  vanilla,  and  pour  the  chocolate  over  this  the  last 
thing. 

MRS.  J.  C.  HOUGHTON. 

Fruit  Punch* 

1  dozen  lemons.  5  pounds  sugar. 

2  quarts  water.  1  can  grated  pineapple. 
1  can  sliced  pineapple.  %  lb-  candied  cherries. 
1  dozen  oranges. 

Strain  the  juice  of  the  lemons  into  a  bowl,  add  the 
juice  of  the  can  of  grated  pineapple  (rejecting  the 
pulp),  the  juice  of  the  can  of  sliced  pineapple,  the 
sugar  and  the  water.  Peel  the  oranges,  cut  them  into 
thin  slices  of  any  shape  desired.  When  the  sugar  is 
dissolved,  add  the  sliced  oranges,  sliced  pineapple,  and 
the  cherries,  to  the  prepared  juice.  This  makes  one 
gallon.  If  color  is  desired,  add  one  quart  strawberry 
juice.  The  amount  of  sugar  can  be  varied  according 
to  taste. 

MRS.  JOHN  MILLER. 

Tea  Punch* 

Two  heaping  teaspoonfuls  best  English  Breakfast 
tea,  to  one  quart  of  boiling  water.  Steep  over  night, 
strain,  add  the  juice  of  three  lemons  and  one-half  pound 
of  powdered  sugar.  Strain  again  through  fine  cloth. 
Serve  with  cracked  ice. 

MISS  MARY  G.  DEWEY. 


124 


THE   DEWEY   COOK  BOOK. 


Wine  Whey, 

Three  tablespoonfuls  of  milk  ;  when  at  boiling  point 
add  one  tablespoonful  of  hot  wine  ;  strain  and  sweeten 
to  taste.    Nice  for  invalids. 

S.  L. 

Blackberry  Cordial. 

i  quart  blackberry  juice.  I  I  teaspoonful  doves, 

i  pound  loaf  sugar.  i  teaspoonful  nutmeg, 

i  glass  brandy.  i  teaspoonful  cinnamon. 

Boil  all,  except  brandy,  together  twenty  minutes, 
strain  and  add  the  brandy.  It  is  more  palatable  with- 
out the  spices. 

MBS.  HEXRY  COLTON. 

Raspberry  Shrub* 

To  three  quarts  of  berries,  put  one  quart  of  vinegar, 
and  let  it  stand  over  night.  Then  strain,  and  to  each 
pint  of  juice  add  one  pound  of  sugar.  Boil  together 
from  twenty  minutes  to  half  an  hour,  skim  it  clear, 
strain,  and  when  cool  add  a  small  wineglassful  of 
French  brandy,  to  each  pint  of  the  shrub. 

MRS.  C.  H.  BALDWIN. 


CANDY. 


Plain  Fondant. 

£  Take  two  and  a  half  pounds  of  granulated  sugar,  two 
cups  of  cold  water,  and  a  scant  half  teaspoonful  of 
cream  of  tartar.  Boil  all  together,  without  stirring, 
until  when  tried  in  cold  water  a  soft  ball  can  be  made 
with  the  fingers.  When  boiling,  if  the  sugar  adheres 
to  the  kettle,  wash  it  down  with  the  hand  (first  dipped 
in  cold  water.)  When  done,  let  the  fondant  cool  until 
you  can  hold  your  finger  in  it,  then  stir  until  it  is  white 
and  creamy  and  can  be  kneaded  into  a  firm  ball.  Put 
it  into  a  covered  dish  and  let  it  stand  a  few  days  before 
using. 

MRS.  C.  H.  BALDWIN. 

Maple  Fondant. 

Make  same  as  plain  fondant,  except  the  sugar  used 
should  be  half  maple  and  half  granulated. 

MES.  C.  H.  BALDWIN. 

Coffee  Fondant. 

Pour  one  and  a  half  cups  of  cold  water  over  a  quar- 
ter of  a  cup  of  ground  coffee,  allow  it  to  remain  on  the 
fire  until  it  reaches  the  boiling  point,  then  strain  through 


126 


THE   DEWEY   CCOK  BOOK. 


cheese  cloth  and  add  two  and  one-half  pounds  of  granu- 
lated sugar  and  a  scant  half  teaspoonful  of  cream  of 
tartar,  then  proceed  as  with  the  plain  fondant.  From 
the  foregoing  recipes  a  great  many  different  kinds  of 
candy  can  be  made,  by  using  nuts,  fruits  and  different 
flavorings. 

MBS.  C.  H.  BALDWIN. 

Peanut  Candy. 

Chop  fine  one  pint  of  peanuts  and  salt  slightly. 
Melt  one  pound  of  sugar,  add  the  nuts  and  turn  onto  a 
sheet  of  buttered  tin  and  roll  with  a  rolling-pin  until 
thin,  then  crease. 

MBS.  BOBEBT  WILKINSON." 

Smith  College  Fudge* 

2  cups  brown  sugar.  I  [  cup  milk. 

i  tablespoon  ml  butter.  |  i  cup  walnut  meats. 

Melt  the  sugar,  milk  and  butter  together,  then  let  the 
syrup  boil  half  an  hour,  or  until  it  "hairs."  Remove 
from  the  stove,  add  the  walnut  meats,  stir  violently 
until  it  begins  to  stiffen.  Pour  into  shallow  buttered 
pans,  andrnark  in  squares. 


i  cup  molasses, 
i  tablespoonlul  vinegar 
Butter  size  of  a  walnut. 


Molasses  Candy. 

'e  syrup. 


cup  white  sugar. 


Boil  all  together  until  brittle  when  dropped  in  water, 
Pull  when  cool  enough  to  handle. 

MES.  H.  M.  O'DELL. 

Molasses  Candy. 

i  cup  molasses.  f  Butter  size  of  an  egg. 

i  cup  sugar.  |  Hickory  nut  meats. 


CANDY.  I27 

Boil  hard  twenty  to.  thirty  minutes,  or  until  it  hard- 
ens in  cold  water.  Just  before  taking  from  the  fire  stir 
in  as  many  hickory  nut  meats,  chopped  fine,  as  it  will 
hold.  For  pulling  use  the  same  ingredients,  with  the 
addition  of  half  a  teaspoonful  of  soda  just  before  taking 
from  the  fire.  Take  up  when  it  begins  to  harden  in 
cold  water. 

MISS  G.  M.  HOUGHTON. 

Maple  Sugar  Candy. 


2  pint  bowls  maple  sugar. 
1  pint  bowl  white  sugar. 
1  pint  bowl  water. 


2  or  3  tablespoonfuls  whipped 
cream. 

1  large  coffeecup  butternuts. 


Place  the  kettle  with  the  sugar  and  water  in  it  on  the 
back  of  the  stove,  until  the  sugar  is  thoroughly  dis- 
solved, then  draw  forward  and  boil  until  the  "soft  ball" 
stage  is  reached  (being  careful  never  to  stir  the 
sugar  after  it  commences  to  boil) ,  remove  to  a  cool 
dry  place,  until  nearly  cold  .before  stirring.  When 
partly  grained,  add  whipped  cream,  turn  into  tins  and 
set  in  a  cold  place  to  harden. 


MRS.  H.  W.  KEMPTON. 


Chocolate  Caramels. 


1  cup  molasses. 

1  cup  grated  chocolate. 

%  cup  butter. 


1  cup  sugar. 
1  cup  milk. 
Vanilla  to  taste. 


Boil  until  it  will  harden  in  cold  water,  then  turn  into 
shallow  pans  to  cool.  When  nearly  cool  cut  into 
squares. 


MPS.  ROBERT*  WILKINSON. 


Chocolate  Caramels. 

One  and  three-quarter  cups  of  sugar,  a  quarter  of  a 


128 


THE  DEWEY  COOK  BOOK. 


cup  of  molasses,  butter  the  size  of  a  walnut,  and  two 
squares  of  chocolate.  Boil  all  together  twenty-five  or 
thirty  minutes,  then  add  one  teaspoonful  of  vanilla, 
beat  hard  for  two  minutes,  then  pour  into  buttered  tins. 
When  nearly  cool  cut  into  squares. 

MRS.  C.  G.  DOWNING. 

Butternut  Candy* 

Two  cups  of  maple  sugar  and  half  a  cup  of  cream. 
Boil  until  it  threads,  stir  in  a  cup  of  nuts,  take  from  the 
fire,  and  pour  into  buttered  pans.  When  nearly  cool 
cut  into  squares. 

MBS.  C  A.  GALE. 

Butter  Scotch* 

Two  large  cups  of  brown  sugar,  half  a  cup  of  butter 
and  half  a  cup  of  water.  Cook  until  it  snaps  or  strings 
when  dropped  from  the  spoon.  Pour  thin  on  buttered 
tins,  and  when  nearly  cold  score  in  squares. 

MISS  G.  M.  HOUGHTON. 

Pop  Corn  Balls. 

1  cup  molasses.  |  1%  cups  sugar. 

2  tablespoonfuls  vinegar.  I      cup  butter. 
8  quarts  popped  corn. 

MISS  MARY  BROOKS. 

Turkish  Sweets* 

1  pound  figs.  I  %  pound  walnuts. 

1  pound  dates.  j  %  pound  filberts. 

Chop  all  together,  knead  on  a  board  which  is  well 
sprinkled  with  confectioners'  sugar.  Roll  out,  cut  into 
small  pieces  and  roll  again  in  the  sugar. 

MISS  CLARA  M.  ADAMS. 


SUGGESTIONS. 


"For  all  green  vegetables  use  soft  water,  salted  and 
freshly  boiling.  Cook  rapidly  until  soft.  The  time 
will  depend  upon  the  age  or  the  freshness  of  the  vege- 
tables. 

"With  green  peas,  shelled  beans,  green  corn,  aspara- 
gus, celery  and  spinach  use  as  little  water  as  possible, 
and  let  it  boil  away,  leaving  just  enough  to  moisten, 
and  thus  save  all  the  desirable  soluble  matter  that  may 
have  been  drawn  out.  Cook  cabbage  and  cauliflower 
uncovered,  in  a  large  kettle  of  rapidly  boiling  water, 
salted  and  with  a  teaspoonful  of  soda  in  it ;  onions, 
scald  and  change  the  water  twice.  All  other  vegetables 
cook  in  water  enough  to  cover,  and  drain  it  off  after 
cooking.  Green  summer  squash,  cabbage  and  other 
watery  vegetables  should  be  pressed  in  a  cloth  or  strain- 
er and  well  dried. 

"Many  people  who  attempt  to  cook  are  apt  to  forget 
that  there  is  a  wide  distinction  between  'boiled  water' 
and  'boiling  water,'  and  that  the  freshness  is  lost  by 
boiling,  so  that  the  sooner  the  water  is  used  after  it  has 
reached  the  boiling  point  the  more  satisfactory  the 
cooking  will  be.  If  water  stands  after  boiling,  it 
looses  its  vitality  and  cannot  be  used  with  good  results. 


i3o 


THE   DEWEY   COOK  BOOK. 


That  is  why  tea  and  coffee  are  so  frequently  flat  and 
lifeless,  without  sparkle  or  flavor ;  not  because  the 
leaves  and  berries  are  not  good,  but  because  they  are 
improperly  made  with  'boiled  water'  instead  of  freshly 
boiling  water." 

s.  J.  WHITE. 


Here  is  a  list  of  meats  and  their  relishes  : 
"Roast  pork  and  roast  goose,  apple  sauce;  roast 
beef,  grated  horseradish  ;  roast  veal,  tomato  or  mush- 
roon  sauce;  roast  mutton,  currant  jelly;  lamb,  mint 
sauce  ;  boiled  chicken,  bread  sauce  ;  roast  turkey,  cran- 
berry sauce ;  boiled  turkey,  oyster  sauce ;  venison  or 
wild  duck,  black  currant  jelly;  broiled  fresh  mackerel, 
stewed  gooseberries ;  broiled  shad,  boiled  rice  and 
salad  ;  fresh  salmon,  green  peas,  cream  sauce." 


Melons  should  be  chilled  before  serving. 


Cantaloupe  should  be  served  in  halves.  Select  the 
small  ones.  Scrape  out  the  seeds,  drain,  and  serve  with 
a  couple  of  spoonfuls  of  cracked  ice  in  each  half. 


Watermelons  should  never  be  served  in  slices,  but 
'should  be  scooped  out  in  an  appetizing  pink  mass.  By 
scooping  the  melon  there  is  no  rind  to  slip  about  one's 
plate.  The  melon  can  be  scooped  out  either  before  or 
after  placing  on  the  table. 


Grapes  should  be  dipped  in  ice  water  two  or  three 
times  and  drained  quite  dry  before  serving.  It  is  better 
to  wash  them  over  night  if  designed  for  breakfast. 


SUGGESTIONS. 


To  ensure  a  perfect  salad,  the  vegetables  should  be 
fresh  and  dry.  The  celery  and  lettuce  crisp,  and  the 
meat  or  fish  not  moist. 


To  prevent  a  meringue  from  falling  when  taken  from 
the  oven  :  First,  do  not  have  too  hot  an  oven.  This  is 
the  chief  trouble.  Second,  beat  the  eggs  to  a  stiff  dry 
froth,  gradually  beat  in  the  powdered  sugar  (a  large 
tablespoonful  for  each  white  of  an  egg),  then  put  the 
meringue  on  the  pie  or  pudding  when  they  are  partially 
cooled,  and  bake  in  a  moderate  oven  for  eighteen  or 
twenty  minutes. 


The  colder  eggs  are  the  more  quickly  they  will  froth. 

The  vinegar  left  over  from  pickled  onions  or  walnuts 
is  excellent  for  flavoring  stews  and  hashes. 


A  spoonful  of  vinegar  added  to  the  water  in  which 
meat  or  fowls  are  boiled,  makes  them  tender. 


Boiled  fish  is  improved  by  adding  a  cup  of  good 
cider  vinegar  to  the  water  in  which  it  is  boiled. 


t^1  tj^1 1^1  tS^1 t^1  e^1       t^1 t^1 1^1  <^  tZ^  t^1  tS^  t^1 1^1 

5  INSURE  IN  THE  £ 

% 
% 
% 

I    EIRE  INSURANCE  COMPANY.  £ 


Vermont  Mutual 


%       CAPITAL,  ASSESSMENTS,  * 

%  $4,050,968.00.       FOUR  PER  CENT.  % 


^  AN  AGENT  IN  EVERY  TOWN.  V 

^  FRED  E.  SMITH,  President,  J.  T.  SABIN,  Secretary,  ^ 

j|  W.  T.  DEWEY,  Treasurer.  ^ 

f^**^* 


ADAMS 
HOTEL 


&    After  being  newly  furnished 


jjj  and  completely  refitted  is 
jjj      now  open  to  the  public.  J> 


m 

MONTPELIER ,  if! 

opposite  Federal  Brag  $ 


F.  L  ADAMS, 

and  court  House        '$  proprietor. 

D.  5.  WnEdTLET, 

31  STATE  STREET,  MONTPELIER,  VERMO  NT 

— dealer  in— 

DRY  GOODS,  LADIES'  AND  MISSES'  GAPES  AND  JACKETS 
velvets,  Dress  Linings  and  Trimmings,  Tea  Gowns,  Hosiery  


i 


•Jhy.         \Ayf  \Jl'yf  *Ar \Asf  \A'sr  \A'/r  V^Vr  V^'v  V*Vr  xA*  vA* 


..ESTABLISHED  1780... 


WALTER  BAKER  &  CO  S 

Premium  No.  1 


CHOCOLATE 


TRADE-MARK. 


Absolutely  Pure.... 
and  of  Uniform  Quality, 

For  CAKE, 

ICE  CREAM, 
FROSTING,  ETC. 


German.,.. 
Sweet  Chocolate 


Good  to  Mat  and  Good  to  Drink. 

Palatable,  Nutritious,  and  Healthful. 

Be  sure  that  you  get  the  genuine 
article,  bearing  our  Trade-Mark. 


WALTER  BAKER  &  CO.  Limited, 

DORCHESTER,  MASS. 


(DAVALLIA  bullata.) 

For  the  Window,  Drawing  Room,  or 
suspended  from  the  Chandelier  over 
Dining  Table  or  use  in  Fern  Dish-jS^^ 

This  little  beauty  is  an  importation  from  Japan,  direct  to  us,  and  is 
certainly  the  finest  addition  to  the  fernery  yet  introduced.  It  comes  in 
dormant  condition  and  is  a  most  satisfactory'  house  plant,  needing-  little 
care  and  sure  to  live  and  thrive.  After  watering-  they  start  into  life,  and 
in  a  short  time  are  covered  with  a  mass  of  beautiful  green  fronds. 
It  will  Surprise  and  delight  You.  They  should  be  allowed  to  dry  up  in 
November  and  rest  until  January  or  February,  and  may  then  be  started 
by  watering  as  before.  When  growing  they  should  be  watered  two  or 
three  times  a  week.  They  may  also  be  cut  in  halves  and  used  in  a  fern 
dish.  Our  first  shipment  will  arrive  from  Japan  January  1,  when  all  ord- 
ers will  be  promptly  filled.    Price,  each  75  cents;  two  for  $1.25. 

Fall  Catalog  Bulbs  and  Plants  now  ready.    Send  for  copj-.  Spring 

affiK&JS&gSSSi. J"»cs  Vichs  sons,  Rodiesiei>,N.v. 


JOHONNOTTS 

AND 

HALL 


Furniture 


OF 

ALL 

KINDS. 


89  MAIN  ST.,  MONTPELIER.  VT. 


TAPLIN  &  CO., 


#§# 


oods 

Agent  for  Butterick  Patterns. 


I   "CORNER  STORE/ 


MONTPELIER,  VT. 


America's  Representative  Range 


Rich  in  Appearance* 
Complete  in  Every  Detail  of  Construction ; 

with  a  record  of 

3J0  LOAVES  OF  BREAD 

baked  in 

6  HOURS  28  MINUTES, 

using  only 

18  1-2  lbs.  of  COAL. 

Recommended  bv  Leading  Cooks  and  Cooking-School  Teachers. 

ror  sale  bV      pech  BROTHERS,  60  Main  St.,  Montpeiier,  Vt. 


GOLD  MEDAL  FLOUR 


 NEVER  FAILS  

EVERY  POUND 
GUARANTEED. 

Your  grocer  may  say  other  flours  just  as  good. 

Don't  Relieve  it. 

Demand  GOLD  3«jr 


3f or  Xatest  5t$le.... 


Ifrbotograpbe 


...GO  TO. 


Corse,  -  ~la> 


§s©  Dermpnt. 
--IF  YOU  ARE  SICK-- 

C*  BLAKELY,  Druggist  will  supply  you  with  reliable 
Remedies  to  relieve  your  sufferings.   

HOUSEKEEPERS  and  GOOD  COOKS  will  do  well  to  bear  in 
mind  that  I  sell  the  best  Cream  Tartar  and  Flavoring 
Extracts  anywhere  10  be  found.    The  Prices  are  Right. 

The  Plaee  is  at  G.  BLtRKELY'S  Elegant  Pharmacy, 

No.  5  STATE  STREET. 


'LP  RELlftBLi 


ocoooo 


SHOJE  STORE, 
CHAS,  H„  SHIPHAN,' dealer  ,n 


9 

m  ALL  DESCi^IFTlIOfSSo 

too  Main  St.,     »     *     Montpelier,  Vt. 

MRS.  J.  M.  BOND, 

'ashionable  T^illinery. 

Imported  Pattern  Hats  and  all  the  Leading  Styles  of 
New  York  and  Boston*  Fancy  Goods  and  Em- 
broidery Materials  in  all  the  New  Designs. 

127  No.  flain  Street.         =      -         BARRE,  VERMONT. 


F.  PL  (orry's  HarRet. 

PHONE  I2I-3. 

FISH.  OYSTERS,  FRUITS  AND  VEGETABLES. 

All  kinds  of  fish  in  their  season,  cut  and  delivered  in  a  first-class  man- 
ner, and  at  prices  as  low  as  the  lowest.  During  the  oyster  season  we 
receive  Providence  River's  fresh  morning-  and  evening. 

A  choice  line  of  Fruit  of  the  best  quality  always  to  be  found  at  our 
market. 

We  make  a  specialty  of  Early  Vegetables  of  all  kinds  and  carry  a  com- 
plete line  throughout  the  season. 
Berries  of  all  kinds  in  large  or  small  quantities. 

We  deliver  goods  in  a  prompt  and  careful 
  —  manner  to  any  part  of  the  city. 


Good  washing 


Is  qiztte  as  necessary  as 
Croocl  CooJzzrrg  

GIVE  US  A  TRIAL. 

Montpeiier  steam  Laundry. 


BROOKS  &  DEMING, 

Doors,  Sash  and  Glass, 

HARD  AT  ARE, 
PAJJNTS,  CORDAGE, 

Agents  Harrison's  Town  66  MAIN  STREET, 

and  Country  Paint.   MONTPELIER,  VT. 


KNITTED 


Table 
Padding 


Best  thing  ever  used. 
Easily  Washed. 
Durable.  Economical. 
Saves  Linen  and  Pre- 
vents Noise. 


Sold    Iby  Dealers. 

Sample  for  2c.  Stamp. 

KNITTED^ 
MATTRESS 

PADS 

Keep  Beds  Clean  and 
Sweet.  Save  Labor 
and  Money.  Easily 
Washed.  Durable  J* 
and  Healthful. 
Sold  by  Dealers. 
Sample  for  2c.  Stamp. 


Booklet  describing  our  Table  Padding-,  Mattress  Pads,  and 
Mattresses,  FKEE. 


KNITTED  MATTRESS  CO., 

Dept.  C,  CANTON  JUNCTION,  MASS. 


The  peppy 

Pictures. 

For  the  Home, 
The  Sunday  School,  a 
The  Day  School, 

THE  PICTURE  ON  OPPOSITE  PAGE 
IS  ONE  OF  THEM. 

No  orders  lor  less  than  25  Pictures. 

1200  subjects  from  which  to  choose. 

All  on  paper. 

Send  two  2  cent  stamps  for  24  page  illustrated  catalog  con- 
taining six  full  size  pictures. 

MENTION  THIS  BOOK. 

ADDRESS, 

The  Perry  Pictures  company, 

MALDEN,  MASS. 

TREMONT  TEMPLE  76  FIFTH  AVENUE, 

BOSTON.  NEW  YORK. 

m 


each 


r 


THE  CHRIST. — Hoffman. 


We  are  Headquarters  for  the 


^IPerv^  {pictures** 


WLe  also  bave  a  complete  line  of  /IDounts, 
BlnMng  paper  anMPbotograpb  Supplies. 

Dtews  of  tbe  Cttp  arto  lDicimt\>„., 

CAPITAL  ELECTRIC  CO., 

15  MAIN  STREET. 


^  High  Class  t 
^  Millinery 

HOLMES  BLOCK. 


TF  in  need  of  SUITS  or  GAR-  f 
*    MENTS*  do  not  fail  to  visit  j 
the  largest  Cloak  and  Suit  House 
j  in  Central  Vermont***  


TEMPLE,  McCUEN  CO* 


m 
m 


iShckney*  Poors| 


FOUNDED  I8!5. 


The  Best 


flustard 


AND 


Spices 

are  the  most  economical  to  use. 


ft 
Hi 
to 
to 
to 
to 


PURE. 


*  Mustards  and  Spices 


are  unequalled  for 

PURITY,  QUALITY, 
AND  STRENGTH. 

Ask  your  grocer  for  them  and  see  that  the 
NAME 

STICKNEY  &  POOR 

is  on  eacn  package. 


to 
to 
to 
to 
Or 
to 
to 
to 
to 
0/ 
to 
to 


A,  t  NILES  S  CO,  A,  t  NILES  &  CO. 


5>rv  (3oobe 
ani>  Carpets 

BRUSSELS  AND  WILTON 
RUGS,  ALL  SIZES  

These  are  very  Choice  Goods  and  must 
be  seen  to  be  appreciated*  The  Colors 
and  Patterns  same  as  Oriental  Goods* 


A.  E.  NILES  &  CO., 

24  State  Street,  MONTPELIER,  VT. 

.^a  ^  ^  ^  • js>         j»     -ja  • ■ ^  ^  • ^  'Ja  ^  • ^s*  ■  *h 

I  B.  M.  SHEPARD  1 
I  COMPANY.  § 

I  ....Sbcee! 

L  21  STATE  STREET,  \Jf 
3?  MONTPELIER,  VT...  W 


Zvy  ©steopatb^  


3Dt\  £.  J6.  BeemaU  ie  a  gra&uate  of  tbe 
American  Scbool  unoer  tbe  f:  tinker  of  tbe 

Science.  64  State  Street. 

Ipfoone,  178=4.  flfcontpeUer,  Dt. 

ALBERT  TUTTEE,  President.  LEVI  H.'BIXBY,  Cashier. 

857 

The  Montpelier  National  Bank, 

MONTPEL1ER,      -  VERMONT. 


DIRECTORS: 

ALBERT  TUTTEE,         GEO.  W.  SCOTT,  H.  S.  EOOMIS, 

D.  D.  RANEETT,  J.  W.  BROCK. 


Capital,  -  -  -  $150,000.00 
Surplus  and  Profits,  -  121,715.00 
United  States  Bonds,  (Par)  262,100.00 


Receive  accounts  of  Banks,  Corporations  and  Firms,  and  will  be  pleased 
to  meet  or  correspond  with  those  who  contemplate  making-  changes  or 
opening-  new  accounts. 

n\o  t±j>\  ±\f\\j/y  Fy^Rien. 

^Kaw— —  MANUFACTURER  OF  — 


Seal  Jackets,  Riding  Four  $  RE^?A^'.Mr 
Coats  and  Fancy  Fiuirs.,,  f 

C@roer  State  ao4  /^&5n?  ^fts.  ^©NTFELliSR 


.m_.    t.JNG  AND 

REDYEING 

A  SPECIALTY. 


€base  $  SanDorn,  Importers,  Boston. 


I  Do  Not  Compete 


with    unscrupulous  ideal- 

ers  in 
flavoring 
Extracts. 

I  use  the  purest  oils  and 
extracts  for  medical  fla- 
vors and  exactly  the  same 
material  in  making-  fla- 
voring- extracts  for  cook- 
ing purposes. 

If  your  results  in  cook- 
ing have  been  unsatisfac- 
tory, why  not  try  some  of 
SLADE'S  4. 

Vanilla,  Lemon, 

Orange,  Rose,  or 

Almond 

 EXTRACTS 

I  sell  them  in  bulk  so  that 
it  is  not  necessary  to  buy 
a  large  quantity  until  you 
see  how  nice  they  are."  If 
you  will  give  them  a  trial 
I  am  sure  of  your  extract 
trade  forever  after. 


HARRY  A.  SLADE,  Pharmacist,   No.  10  State  St.,  Montpelier. 

i 


GOOD  COOKING 

REQUIRES  GOOD  MATERIAL. 


Bridal  Veil  Flour 


Always  makes  Good  Bread  and  when  the  Bread  is 
Just  Right  the  meal  passes  pleasantly* 

MARVIN  &  SHERBURNE^  Grocers  and  Crockery  Dealers 

40  and  42  MATN  ST.  MONT PELIER ,  VERMONT. 


H  Solution 
Solved  

Harmony  in  the  Kitchen  by  using 
CHEMICALLY  PURE  Cream  of 
Tartar  and  Bi-Carbonate  of  Soda* 
These  can  be  found  at  the  Pharmacy 

O  f  &^  ufa  ufa  t$       t^1 1?^       tS^1  vfc       «^       «^  «^ 

Wl.  E.  Gerrttl  &  Co. 


TERRILL'S    EXTRACT  VANILLA. 


ONCE  TRIED,    ALWAYS  TRIED. 


™  PEOPLE  NOW  REALIZE  THAT  >|f 
•J^  A  DOLLAR  SPENT  AT  THE...  \J| 

4         grand  UNION  TEA  CO.,  $ 

Gives  them  in  return  the  highest  value  it) 

•J-        for  their  money,    They  appreciate  the  W 

•J-        fact  that  we  place  on  sale  not  only  the  \if 

2J       BEST  GRADE  of  4  ^  ^  jfc      jfc  vl/ 

jji   TEA,  COfFEE  AMD  BAKING  POWMR,  Etc.,  % 

But  that  they  are  always  FRESH  and  ^ 
(f\  CLEAN.  This  they  believe  merits  (jj 
/|\  their  Patronage  and  give  us  a  liberal  y|| 
0fl  portion.  J>  J>  J>  &  J>  J-  <$>  J>  yfo 
jfL  29  Main  Street,  Montpelier,  Vermont.  \jj 

•       «tgte>"  <3te-        jEte"-  ^fey  <jS3sy  <j3»»-  <@f-        fito*-  ftt^  jlB^- 

Stiver  Xeaf  ^ 
Jflour*  ^ 

Tie  (Suaranteeb  absolutely  pure  ant) 
tbere  is  not  its  superior  in  quality  for  all 
purposes. 

....USE  NO  OTHER.... 

mi  first  Class  Groceries  Sell  tt. 


First  National  Bank, 

MONTPELIER,  VT. 

Capital,  -  -  -  $200,000. 
Surplus  and  Profits,       -  19,200. 

President,  .  .  .  CHARLES  DEWEY 
Vice  President,  .  .  .  FRED  E.  SMITH 
Cashier,    .        .        .        .        .  A.G.EATON 

DRAFTS  ISSUED  ON  FOREIGN  COUNTRIES. 

It  is  all  well 
Enough  to... 

Learn  to  Cook  Nice  Things 
which  you  will  get  from  the  Re- 
cipes in  this  Book,  but  you  want 
to  Eat  MOSTLY,  Bread,  Crack- 
ers and  Confectionary  that  come 
from 

C.  H.  CROSS  &  SON, 


101  main  ST.,  MONTPELIER,  VERMONT. 


MONTPELIER  SAVINGS  BANK 
AND  TRUST  COMPANY. 


 INCORPORATED  A.  D.  1870.  

Transacts  a  General  Banking  Business,***.* 
Executes  Individual  and  Corporate  Trusts* 
PAYS  INTEREST  ON  DEPOSITS. 

JAMES  W.  BROCK,  President,         L.  BART  CROSS,  Vice-President, 
ALBERT  W.  FERRIN,  Treasurer. 

]I)ou  (Set  £be  flDost  Cbange  SSacfc  at 
tbe  <Ittt3ett0'  2)rug  anb  Supply  Co* 

DRUGS  AND  PATENT  MEDICINES* 

REG.        OUR  REG.  OUR 

PRICE      PRICE  PRICE  PRICE 

Bath  Spong-e,  25c  15c  Florida  Water,  50c  40c 

Toilet  Soap,  3  cakes,  15c  10c  Brush  Brooms,  25c  15c 

Tooth  Powder,  25c  20c  Cloth  Brushes,  25c  15c 

Allen's  Foot  Ease,  25c  20c  Sh'ving  Mug,Soap  &  Brush,  35c  25c 

Tooth  Brushes,  25c  15c  Hand  Brushes,  10c  05c 

Dewitt's  Toilet  Cream,  25c  15c  Nail  Brushes,  25c  20c 

Robinson's  Tooth  Wash,  30c  20c  Cleaning-  Sponge,  25c  15c 

Violet  Water,  35c  25c  Talcum  Powder,  10c 

Dr.  Mack's  Herb  and  Tonic  Bitters,  25c 

CITIZENS'  DRUG  AND  SUPPLY  CO*t 

108  Main  St  ,  Near  Argus  Office,  E.  E.  BLAKELV,  Manager- 

Capital  Savings  sank  and  Trust  Co., 

MONTPELIER,  VT. 

capital,  $!00,ooo.oo.    Deposits  Join  ist,  \m,  $642,429.19. 

Deposits  made  on  or  before  the  5th  daj'  of  the  month  draw  interest  from 
the  first.  A  General  Banking  Business  Transacted.  Safety  Deposit 
Boxes  to  rent,  50  cents  a  mouth  or  $5.00  a  year. 

T.  J.  Deavitt,  Alex  Cochran,  Albert  Johonnott, 

President.  Vice-Presidents. 
Frank  N.  Smith,  Treasurer. 

 TRUSTEES:  —  

T.  J.  Deavitt,     Albert  Johonnott,     H.  N.  Taplin,    A.  J.  Sibley, 
Geo.  I,.  Blanchard,  Montpelier, 
Alex  Cochran,  Groton,  and  Geo.  F.  Sibley,  No.  Montpelier. 


"LIFE  INSURANCE  shall  find  favor  in  your  eyes  and  shine  with  a  bright- 
er light  than  ever,— the  protection  of  labor,  the  g-uardians  of  the  destitute, 
the  riches  of  the  poor,  the  anchor  of  the  anxious  and  the  luxury  of  the 
rich." 


NET  ASSETS  SEPT.  I,  1899,  $16,000,000.00 

'IResults  are  what  every  in- 
vestor bestres,  anb  the  treat- 
ment of  its  policy,  bolbers  by 
^belRattonalXife^make  very 
Interesting  reabing. 

SHALL  WE  SEND  YOU  OUR  LITERATURE  > 

Address  any  Agency  or  the  Home  Office. 


National  Lite  insurance  Co., 

MONTPELIER,  VERMONT. 


3YRUP  o  TAR 

A  GREAT  REMEDY,  because  we  can  warrant  it.  On  every  package 
you  find  the  words,  "No  Cure,  No  Pay/'  What  does  it  mean  ?  It 
simply  means  that  if  a  50-cent  bottle  oi  Greene's  Warranted  Syrup 
of  Tar  does  not  cure  your  cough  or  cold,  that  your  druggist  will  refund 
vou  your  money.    This  is  the  agreement  we  have  with  all  druggists. 

*ny  Druggist  can  get  Greene's  Warranted  Syrup  of  Tar  for  you  of  his  wholesaler  if  you  ii:sist 


