6  n 


KX_c^W,  C,     l  0  £UX  cc^ 


Warf/o;( 


-l1**  ****«*, 


ROBINSON  UBRMK 


PRACTICAL  DIETETICS 
WITH  REFERENCE  TO 
DIET  IN  HEALTH  AND 
DISEASE     w    *    *    0- 


PRACTICAL 


DIETETICS 

WITH    REFERENCE   TO 

DIET  IN  HEALTH  AND  DISEASE 


•ool 


■■'%. 


sins 


BY 

ALIDA   FRANCES  PATTEE 

Graduate,  Department   of   Household  Arts,  State    Normal   School, 

Framingham,  Mass. 
Late  Instructor  in  Dietetics,  Bellevue  Training  School  for  Nurses, 

Bellevue   Hospital,  New  York  City. 

Former   Instructor   at   Mount   Sinai,  Hahnemann,  and  the   Flower 

Hospital   Training   Schools    for   Nurses,   New   York    City; 

Lakeside,  St.  Mary's,  Trinity,  and  Wisconsin  Training 

Schools  for  Nurses,  Milwaukee,  Wis.;  St.  Joseph's 

Hospital,  Chicago,  111.;   St.  Vincent  de  Paul 

Hospital,  Brockville,  Ontario,  Canada. 


ELEVENTH  EDITION 

Revised   and    Enlarged 

Price  $1.75 


A.  F.  PATTEE,  Publisher 

Mount  Vernon,  New  York 
1917 


pin 


Set  up,  electrotyped,  printed,  and  copyrighted,  June,  1903 

Reprinted  July,  1904,  February,.  1905,  October,   1906,  and  November,   1908 

Revised,   reset,    and   recopy righted   December,    19 10 

Reprinted  August  1912,  October,  1913 

January,    19 15,  January,   191 6 

Revised  and  recopyrighted 

February,  1917 


Copyright,  1903,  1904,  1905,  1910,  1916,  1917,  by 
ALIDA  FRANCES  PATTEE 


Entered  at   Stationers'   Hall 
All  rights  reserved 


Zo  tbe  Crainefc  IRuree: 
THUbose  J>ail$  life  is  a 
blessing  to  bumanit\> 


PREFACE  TO  THE  ELEVENTH  EDITION 

The  continuous  demand  for  this  work  since  its  last  complete 
revision  in  1910  has  resulted  in  the  publication  of  successive 
editions  almost  annually  until  the  time  became  ripe  for  an- 
other complete  revision.  The  present  edition,  while  preserv- 
ing as  far  as  possible  the  original  plan  of  the  work,  incor- 
porates a  large  amount  of  new  material  in  harmony  with  the 
latest  developments  in  the  science  and  art  of  dietetics.  Many 
sections  on  the  treatment  of  the  sick  have  been  entirely  rewrit- 
ten to  conform  with  present  hospital  practice. 

The  author  takes  this  opportunity  to  acknowledge  with 
thanks  the  valuable  advice  and  assistance  given  by  Mary 
Swartz  Rose,  Ph.D.,  Assistant  Professor,  Department  of  Nu- 
trition, Teachers'  College,  Columbia  University,  New  York 
City. 

For  suggestions  and  permission  to  use  certain  diets  the  au- 
thor wishes  to  express  her  hearty  appreciation  to : 

Dr.  Frederick  M.  Allen,  Physician  to  the  Hospital  of  the 
Rockefeller  Institute  for  Medical  Research,  New  York. 

Dr.  Herbert  S.  Carter,  A.M.,  M.D.,  Consulting  Physician 
to  the  Lincoln  Hospital,  Associate  in  Medicine  at  Columbia 
University  and  Assistant  Visiting  Physician  to  the  Presbyte- 
rian Hospital,  New  York. 

Dr.  Warren  Coleman,  Professor  of  Clinical  Medicine  and 
Applied  Pharmacology,  Cornell  University,  Medical  College. 
Visiting  Physician  to  Bellevue  Hospital,  New  York. 

Dr.  L.  A.  Conner,  Professor  of  Clinical  Medicine,  Cornell 
University  Medical  College,  Attending  Physician,  New  York 
Hospital. 

Dr.  B.  B.  Crohn,  Assistant  Chief  of  Gastro-Enterological 
Clinic.  Mt.  Sinai  Hospital,  New  York. 


viii  PREFACE 

Dr.  Eugene  F.  Dubois,  Medical  Director  of  Bellevue  Hos- 
pital, New  York. 

Dr.  Max  Einhorn,  Professor  of  Medicine,  New  York  Post 
Graduate  School  and  Hospital.  Physician  to  Post  Graduate 
and  German  Hospital,  New  York. 

Dr.  L.  Emmett  Holt,  Professor  of  Pediatrics,  College  of 
Physicians  and  Surgeons.  Physician  to  Babies  and  Foundling 
Hospitals,  New  York. 

Dr.  T.  C.  Janeway,  Professor  of  Medicine,  Johns  Hopkins 
University.  Physician  to  Johns  Hopkins  Hospital,  Balti- 
more, Maryland. 

Dr.  Elliott  P.  Joslin,  Assistant  Professor  of  Medicine,  Har- 
Tard  University.  Physician  Mass.  General  Hospital,  Boston, 
Massachusetts. 

Dr.  C.  C.  Kerley,  Professor  of  Parliatrics,  Polyclinic  Med- 
ical School  and  Hospital.  Physician  to  Nurses  and  Childs 
Hospital,  New  York. 

Dr.  L.  E.  LaFetra,  Physician  to  Bellevue  and  Children's 
Hospitals,  New  York. 

Dr.  H.  0.  Mosenthal,  Associate  Professor  of  Medicine, 
Johns  Hopkins  University.  Physician  to  Johns  Hopkins 
Hospital,  Baltimore,  Maryland. 

Dr.  L.  C.  Schroeder,  Physician  to  Bellevue  and  Children's 
Hospitals,  New  York. 

Dr.  Frederick  C.  Shattuck,  Emeritus  Professor  of  Clinical 
Medicine,  Harvard  University,  Boston,  Massachusetts. 

Bellevue  Hospital,  New  York.  New  York  Post  Graduate 
Hospital.  Massachusetts  General  Hospital,  Boston,  Massa- 
chusetts. 

Alida  Frances  Pattee. 

New  York,  February,  1917. 


PREFACE  TO  THE  SIXTH  EDITION" 

The  very  gratifying  demand  for  this  work  has  necessitated 
the  preparation  of  a  sixth  edition.  Advantage  has  been 
taken  of  this  opportunity  to  revise  the  book  and  incorporate, 
as  far  as  space  allows,  the  latest  results  of  research  in  die- 
tetics. To  meet  the  growing  tendency  of  physicians  to  pre- 
scribe the  exact  fuel  value  of  a  diet,  the  total  energy  value 
of  each  recipe  has  been  calculated  wherever  data  as  to  com- 
position of  materials  used  are  available,  or  the  quantities 
of  materials  used  are  fairly  constant.  A  table  has  also  been 
introduced  in  which  the  food  value  of  the  materials  used  in 
the  recipes  is  given.  This  will  be  useful  in  computing  other 
food  combinations,  and  in  calculating  the  amount  of  protein, 
fat  or  carbohydrates  in  any  dietary,  whenever  required,  with- 
out the  tedious  mathematical  processes  usually  involved  in 
such  operations. 

It  is  hoped  that  a  revised  classification  of  food  principles, 
greater  emphasis  on  the  value  of  mineral  matter  in  the  diet, 
and  fuller  discussion  of  the  fundamental  principles  of  nutri- 
tion, will  add  much  to  the  usefulness  of  the  book. 

In  the  introduction  are  presented  outlines  showing  the  re- 
quirements in  dietetics  of  the  various  State  Boards  of  Ex- 
aminers of  Nurses,  and  the  contents  of  the  book  have  been 
rearranged  to  correspond  directly  with  these  requirements. 
This  will  materially  aid  the  dietitian  in  arranging  the  course 
of  study  for  the  nurse  so  as  to  prepare  her  adequately  for  her 
State  Examinations. 

Many  years  of  experience  as  an  instructor  in  dietetics  in 
hospitals  seem  to  the  author  to  demonstrate  that  the  "recipe 
book."  so-called,  should  not  be  separate  from  the  volume 
on  "theory."     Both  theoretical  and  practical  work  should  be 


x  PREFACE 

treated  together,  otherwise,  while  the  subjects  are  naturally 
closely  allied,  the  young  student  becomes  confused  and  is  not 
apt  to  apply  the  theory  to  the  practice.  In  this  book  she 
cannot  read  a  recipe  without  having  her  attention  called  to 
its  function  in  nutrition.  Furthermore,  for  convenience 
sake,  the  two  should  be  combined  in  one  book  of  moderate 
size.  One  hundred  and  fifty  pages  have  been  added  to  this 
edition  with  but  little  increase  in  bulk. 

I  take  pleasure  in  acknowledging  the  valuable  assistance 
rendered  by  Dr.  Mary  D.  Swartz  Kose,  Assistant  Professor 
of  Household  Arts,  Teachers  College,  Columbia  University, 
New  York,  in  the  preparation  of  this  edition;  also  again  to 
express  my  thanks  for  valuable  material  used  in  the  book  to 
Mrs.  Ellen  H.  Eichards,  Dr.  W.  Gilman  Thompson,  Dr.  Max 
Einhorn,  Dr.  Henry  Koplik,  Dr.  L.  Emmett  Holt,  Dr.  Louis 
Starr,  Dr.  Frederick  C.  Shattuck,  Dr.  Elbridge  G.  Cutler,  Dr. 
Elliott  P.  Joslin,  Dr.  Harry  W.  Goodall  and  Dr.  Maynard 
Ladd. 

Alida  Frances  Pattee. 

New  York,  December,  1910. 

Extract  From  Preface  to  Fifth  Edition 
I  have  been  particularly  pleased  to  see  "  Practical  Dietet- 
ics "  accepted  as  a  text-book  by  so  many  educational  and  other 
authorities.  Thus  it  is  to  be  found  in  all  hospitals  of  the 
United  States  Army ;  it  has  been  recommended  for  use  by  all 
the  various  State  Boards  of  Examiners  of  Nurses  that  have 
thus  far  been  appointed;  it  has  been  adopted  by  the  military 
authorities  in  Canada  for  the  Permanent  Schools  of  Instruc- 
tion for  the  Militia,  and  it  has  also  been  added  to  the  Author- 
ized Text  Book  list  of  the  New  York  City  and  Boston  Public 
Schools. 

New  York,  November,  1908. 


PREFACE  TO  THE  SECOND  EDITION 

The  very  cordial  reception  of  the  first  edition  of  Practical 
Dietetics  has  encouraged  a  second  presentation. 

In  the  preparation  of  the  second  issue  the  original  matter 
has  been  thoroughly  revised,  and  important  additions  made. 

For  valuable  material  I  am  indebted  to  the  following 
physicians,  hospitals  and  publishers,  and  gratefully  acknowl- 
edge their  assistance  and  kind  permission  accorded  by  them 
to  quote  their  several  diets. 

Dr.  W.  Gilman  Thompson,  Professor  of  Medicine  in  the 
Cornell  University  Medical  College  in  New  York  City  and 
visiting  physician  to  the  Presbyterian  and  Bellevue  Hos- 
pitals : 

Dr.  Max  Einhorn,  Professor  of  Clinical  Medicine  at  the 
New  York  Post-Graduate  Medical  School  and  Hospital,  vis- 
iting physician  to  the  German  Dispensary: 

Dr.  Henry  Koplik,  attending  physician  Mount  Sinai  Hos- 
pital, ex-president  of  the  American  Pediatric  Society: 

Dr.  L.  Emmett  Holt,  Professor  of  Diseases  of  Children 
in  the  College  of  Physicians  and  Surgeons  (Columbia  Uni- 
versity), attending  physician  at  the  Babies'  Hospital  and 
Foundling  Hospital,  New  York: 

Dr.  Louis  Starr,  Consulting  Paediatrist  to  the  Maternity 
Hospital,  Philadelphia;  late  Clinical  Professor  of  Diseases 
of  Children  in  the  Hospital  of  the  University  of  Pennsyl- 
vania : 

Dr.  Frederick  C.  Shattuck,  Professor  of  Clinical  Medicine 
in  Harvard  University,  visiting  physician  Massachusetts  Gen- 
eral Hospital : 

Dr.  Elbridge  G.  Cutler,  Instructor  in  Theory  and  Prac- 
tice at  Harvard  Medical  School,  visiting  physician  Massa- 
chusetts General  Hospital : 

xi 


xii  PREFACE 

Dr.  Nathan  Smith  Davis,  late  Dean  Northwestern  Uni- 
versity Medical  School,  Chicago : 

Bellevue  Hospital,  Mount  Sinai  Hospital,  the  Presby- 
terian Hospital,  the  Society  of  Lying-in  Hospital  (New 
York),  Massachusetts  General  Hospital,  Boston: 

D.  Appleton  &  Co.,  Blakiston  &  Co.,  William  Wood  & 
Co.,  and  the  publisher  of  the  Dietetic  and  Hygienic  Gazette : 

And  sincere  thanks  are  due  Mrs.  Ellen  H.  Eichards  (In- 
structor in  Sanitary  Chemistry,  Massachusetts  Institute  of 
Technology)  for  aid  and  information,  also  for  permission  to 
quote  from  the  Eumford  Kitchen  Leaflets. 

A.  F.  Pattee. 

New  York,  July,  1904. 


PREFACE  TO  THE  FIRST  EDITION" 

Afi  instructor  of  dietetics  at  various  hospitals  I  have  con- 
stantly felt  the  need  of  a  simple  manual  and  text-book  for 
the  use  of  the  nurse  in  the  classroom. 

Xone  could  be  found  which  fulfilled  the  requirements  as 
to  simplicity,  brevity,  and  exactness,  with  reference  to  dietetic 
treatment  in  disease. 

This  same  need  has  been  expressed  by  mothers  and  nurses 
outside  of  the  hospital. 

In  the  following  pages  I  have  endeavored  to  meet  this 
need  by  giving  the  result  of  knowledge  gained  during  the 
past  eight  years  of  practical  classwork  experience  in  hospitals 
of  different  cities. 

The  preparation  of  food  is  a  science  as  well  as  an  art,  the 
chemistry  of  which  is  as  precise  as  the  chemistry  of  the 
laboratory.  When  we  are  willing  to  be  as  exact  and  care- 
ful in  this  work  as  we  are  in  chemical  experiments,  our  suc- 
cess will  become  a  certainty.  No  other  technical  art  can,  with 
so  little  practical  knowledge,  go  as  far  in  simplifying  that 
which  is  otherwise  complicated  and  laborious,  or  do  more 
toward  accomplishing  that  which  is  a  chief  result  of  all 
science —  adding  to  the  comfort  and  happiness  of  the  human 
race. 

A.  F.  Pattee. 

New  York,  July,  1903. 


xiii 


INTRODUCTION 

In  response  to  the  many  requests  of  Superintendents  of 
Training  Schools  and  Dietitians  for  an  outline  of  the  various 
State  Board  Requirements  in  Dietetics,  I  quote  with  permis- 
sion the  given  outlines  and  courses  of  study  in  dietetics  as 
arranged  by  the  American  Hospital  Association,  and  the  va- 
rious State  Boards  of  Examiners  of  Nurses.  Answers  to  all 
questions  are  to  be  found  in  this  book.  Requirements  of  other 
States  will  be  added  in  each  new  edition  of  Pattee's  "  Practical 
Dietetics." 

These  outlines  will  prove  of  assistance  to  the  Dietitian  in 
arranging  her  course  of  study  for  the  nurse,  and  will  also 
prove  suggestive  to  the  nurse  in  preparing  for  her  State  Ex- 
aminations. 

Through  the  kindness  of  the  various  State  Boards  of  Ex- 
aminers of  Nurses  I  am  also  able  to  quote  the  examination 
questions  of  various  States. 

A  copy  of  these  outlines  and  examination  questions  is  given 
in  booklet  form  free  with  each  copy  of  Pattee's  Practical  Die- 
tetics purchased.  If  not  secured  with  the  book  send  direct 
to  A.  F.  Pattee,  Mount  Vernon,  New  York,  for  same,  enclos- 
ing five  cents  for  postage  and  this  page  cut  from  your  book. 


XV 


CONTENTS 

PAGE 

Introduction xv 

State  Boards'  Requirements  in  Dietetics  and  Ex- 
amination Questions. 

PART  I 

PRINCIPLES  OF  NUTRITION  AND  FOOD 
PREPARATION 

CHAPTEB 

I    Food 3 

General  Object  —  Definition  —  Food  Accessories  ( or 
Food  Adjuncts)  — Source  —  Composition  of  the  Body 

—  Composition  of  Food  —  Classification  of  Food  — 
Nitbogenous,  Protein  and  Extractives  —  Non-Nitro- 
genous, Carbohydrates  (Starch  and  Sugar),  Fats  — 
Water  —  Mineral  Matter.  Food  Accessories  —  Condi- 
tions for  Perfect  Nutrition. 

II    Nutrition 36 

Digestion  ■  —  Protein  —  Fats  —  Carbohydrates  — 
Mineral  Matter  —  Water.  Resume"  of  Digestion  — 
Factors  Determining  Rate  of  Digestion.    Absorption: 

—  Protein  —  Fats  —  Carbohydrates  —  Mineral  Matter 

—  Water.  Metabolism  :  —  Protein  —  Fats  —  Carbo- 
hydrates.   Excretion. 

III  Food  Values 54 

The  Balance  of  Energy  and  Nitrogen  Equilibrium, 
The  Energy  Value  of  Food  —  Energy  Requirements  of 
the  Body  —  Tables  Showing  the  Nutritive  Value  of 
Food  —  Table  Showing  the  Nutritive  Value  of  Food 
According  to  Individual  Serving. 

IV  Feeding  the  SrcK 72 

General    Rules  —  Physicians'    Directions  —  Feeding 
xvii 


xviii  CONTENTS 

CHAPTER  PAGE 

in  Acute  Disease  —  Evidences  of  Digestion  —  The  Ap- 
petite —  Punctuality  in  Serving  —  Quality  and  Quan- 
tity of  Food  —  Temperature  of  Food  —  Details  in 
Feeding  —  Bathing  and  Cleansing  the  Mouth  —  Time 
and  Position  for  Feeding  —  Sleep  and  Feeding  — 
Feeding  the  Helpless  Patient  —  Feeding  the  Uncon- 
scious Patient  —  Forced  Feeding  —  Nasal  Feeding  — 
Use  of  the  Stomach  Tube  —  Rectal  Feeding  —  Use  of 
Alcohol  in  the  Sickroom  —  Keeping  Ice  in  the  Sick- 
room —  Disinfecting  Utensils. 

V    The  Tray 85 

Attractive  Arrangement  of  a  Tray.     How  to  Serve 
(General  Rules) . 

VI    Methods  of  Cooking  and  Care  of  Food 88 

Digestibility  and  Nutritive  Value  of  Cooked  Food 

—  Success  in  Cooking  —  Objective  Points  in  Cooking 

—  Effect  of  Heat  —  Principles  Governing  the  Choice 
of  a  Method  of  Cooking  Any  Food  —  Principal  Cook- 
ing Processes  —  The  Object  of  each  Cooking  Process  — 
Cooking  Utensils  —  Blending  Ingredients  —  Method 
of  Working  —  Ice  Box  and  Contents  —  Care  of  Food 

—  Preserving  Foods  —  Concentration  —  Predigestion 
of  Food  —  Adulteration  of  Food. 

VII    Measures  and   Weights 98 

Table  of  Measures  and  Weights  —  Apothecaries 
Weight  —  Apothecaries  Measure  —  Approximate  Meas- 
ures —  Metric  System  —  Measures  of  Volume  —  Meas- 
ure of  Weight  —  Table  of  Equivalents  —  Table  for  Pre- 
paring Percentage  Solution  —  Thermometry. 

PAET  II 

PEACTICAL  APPLICATION  OF  PEINCIPLES 
OF  NUTEITION 

EECIPES 

VIII     Beverages 109 

Acid  Beverages 110 

Recipes 110 


CONTENTS  xix 

CHAPTER  PAGE 

Albuminous  Beverages 118 

Recipes 118 

Starchy  Beverages 124 

Recipes 124 

Miscellaneous    Beverages 127 

Tea 127 

Recipes 131 

Coffee 128 

Recipes 131 

Chocolate 129 

Recipes 134 

Cocoa 129 

Recipes 133 

Special  Non-Nutritive  Beverages 136 

Recipes 136 

IX    Animal  Foods 138 

Meat 140 

Recipes 149 

Poultry  and  Game 152 

Recipes 153 

Fish 159 

Recipes 162 

Fish    Sauces 165 

Recipes 165 

Shell  Fish 166 

Oysters 166 

Recipes 169 

Clams , 168 

Recipes 172 

Eggs 175 

Recipes 179 

Milk  and  Milk  Products 184 

Recipes 193 

Sweetbreads 200 

Recipes 201 

Gelatin 203 

Recipes 204 

Beef  Preparations 212 

Beef  Juice 212 

Recipes 214 


xx  CONTENTS 

CHAPTER  PAGE 

Beef  Tea 213 

Recipes 215 

Raw  Beef 214 

Recipes 217 

Meat  Broths 217 

Recipes 219 

Meat  Jellies 217 

Recipes 221 

Soups 223 

Recipes 223 

Soup  Accompaniments 229 

Recipes 229 

X     Vegetable  or  Plant  Foods 231 

Cereals 233 

Gruels 236 

Recipes 238 

Breakfast  Foods 235 

Recipes 242 

Starchy    Jellies 244 

Recipes »  244 

Macaroni 245 

Recipes 245 

Bread 247 

Recipes 250 

Toast 255 

Recipes 256 

Sandwiches 258 

Recipes 259 

Crackers    and    Wafers 260 

Recipes 260 

Vegetables 261 

Recipes 265 

Vegetable  Sauces 271 

Recipes 271 

Salads 272 

Recipes 274 

Salad  Dressings 272 

Recipes 273 


CONTENTS  xx  i 

CHAPTER  PAGE 

Fruits 276 

Recipes 279 

Nuts 283 

Fungi    and    Algae 284 

XI    Nutritious  Desserts 280 

Hot  and  Cold  Desserts 28G 

Soft  Custards 287 

Recipes 287 

Baked  Custards 288 

Recipes 288 

Whips  and  Souffles .      .   290 

Recipes .      .   291 

Junket 293 

Recipes 293 

Cornstarch  Pudding  or  Blanc  Mange 295 

Recipes 295 

Rice  Puddings 297 

Recipes 297 

Tapioca 300 

Recipes .   300 

Bread  Puddings 302 

Recipes .    302 

Cracker  Puddings 304 

Recipes 304 

Pudding  Sauces 305 

Recipes 305 

Frozen  Desserts 306 

Ice  Cream 306 

Recipes 307 

Sherbet 306 

Recipes 312 

Ices , 306 

Recipes 313 

XII    Cake 317 

Recipes ,     .  318 


xxii  CONTENTS 


PART  III 

HOSPITAL  DIETARIES  —  DIET  IN  DISEASE 
—  DIET  IN  SPECIAL  CONDITIONS 

CHAPTER  PAGE 

XIII  Hospital  Dietaries 323 

General  Types  of  Diet  Used  in  Hospitals:  Liquid 
or  Fluid  Diets  —  Foods  to  be  Used,  Low  Fluid  Diet  — 
Fluid  Diet  Without  Nutritive  Value  (Einhorn)  — 
Fluid  Diet  with  Low  Nutritive  Value  (Einhorn)  — 
Medium  Fluid  Diet  (Half  Ration)  Einhorn  — Full 
Fluid  Diet  (Full  Ration)  Einhorn  —  Full  Fluid  Diet 
( Suitable  for  Typhoid  Fever )  Kinnicutt  —  High 
Calory  Fluid  Diet  — Milk  Diet  (Bellevue  Hospital)  — 
Modified  Milk  Fluid  Diet  (Coleman)  —Soft  or  Semi- 
Solid  Diet:  Foods  to  be  Used.  Typical  Menu  for  a 
Soft  or  Semi-Solid  Diet  (Rose)  — Liquid  and  Soft 
Solid  Diet  (Massachusetts  General  Hospital)  — 
Light  or  Convalescent  Diet:  Diet  for  Convalescents 
( Einhorn )  —  General  Convalescent  Diet  ( New  York 
Hospital )  —  Special  Convalescent  Diet  ( New  York 
Hospital )  —  Regular  House  Diet  ( New  York  Hospi- 
tal )  —  General  House  Diet    ( New  York  Hospital ) . 

DIET  IN  DISEASE 

XIV  Diet  in  Fevers  and  Infectious  Diseases       .      .      .   334 

Diet  in  Fever  in  General  —  Diet  in  Convalescence 
from  Fever  (Thompson)  — Typhoid  Fever  —  High 
Caloric  Feeding  —  Modified  Milk  Fluid  Diets  for 
Typhoid  Fever  (Coleman)  — A  Soft  Diet  for  Typhoid 
Convalescence  ( Coleman )  —  A  Mixed  Fluid  Diet  for 
Typhoid  Fever  (Kinnicutt)  — Foods  from  which  a 
Typhoid  Mixed  Diet  may  be  Chosen  (Rose)  — Ton- 
silitis  and  Quinsy  (Thompson)  — Diphtheria  (Thomp- 
son) —  Pneumonia  (Thompson)  — Broncho-Pneumo- 
nia (Thompson)  — Mumps  (Thompson)  — Whooping 
Cough  (Thompson)  — Diet  in  Tuberculosis,  Menus  for 
Tuberculosis   (Loomis  Sanitarium). 

XV    Diet  in  Disorders  of  Nutrition 356 

Diet  in  Diabetes  —  Dr.  Joslin's  Preparatory  Treat- 
ment, The  Fasting  Period,  Carbohydrate  Feeding,  A 


CONTENTS  xxiii 

CHAPTER  PAGE 

Diabetic  Chart  (Dr.  Elliott  P.  Joslin )—  Suggested 
Diet  for  Diabetes  under  Fasting  Treatment;  Observa- 
tion Diet,  Fast  until  Sugar  Free,  Carbohydrate  Test. 
Mixed  Diet,  The  Fast  Day  —  Carbohydrate  Test 
Menus  —  Mixed  Diet  Menus  —  Typical  Menus  used  in 
Diabetes  —  Foods  Arranged  Approximately  Accord- 
ing to  Content  of  Carbohydrates  (Joslin)  — Foods 
Arranged  in  Order  of  their  Carbohydrate  Content 
from  lowest  to  highest  (Allen)  — Lithemia  or  Excess 
of  Uric  Acid  —  Diet  for  Uric  Acid  Gravel  and  Acute 
Nephritis  (Massachusetts  General  Hospital)  — Diet 
in  Gout  ( Rose )  —  A  Day's  Dietary  Suggested  for 
Chronic  Gout  ( Rose )  —  Diet  in  Oxaluria  ( Massa- 
chusetts General  Hospital)  — Diet  in  Obesity  (Mass- 
achusetts General  Hospital). 

XVI     Diet  in   the   Diseases   of   the  Stomach 385 

Acute  Gastritis  (Einhorn) — Chronic  Gastritis 
(Einhorn)  — Diet  in  Gastric  Hyperacidity  (Einhorn) 

—  Ulcer  of  the  Stomach  ( Einhorn )  —  Outline  of  Diet 
in  Gastric  Ulcer  (Einhorn)  — Diet  for  Active  Ulcer 
of  the  Stomach  or  Duodenum  (Massachusetts  General 
Hospital )  —  The  Lenhartz  Diet  —  Convalescent  Gas- 
tric Diet    (Janeway). 

XVII     Diet  in  Intestinal  Diseases 396 

Diet  in  Dyspepsia  —  Diet  in  Constipation  (Massa- 
chusetts General  Hospital)  — Diet  in  Diarrhea  — 
Dysentery  ( Thompson )  —  Diet  for  Ulcerative  Colitis 
and  Dysentery  (Massachusetts  General  Hospital)  — 
Chronic  Dysentery  (Thompson) — Appendicitis 
(Thompson)  — Schmidt's  Intestinal  Test  Diet  —  Test 
Diet  for  Studying  the  Function  of  the  Alimentary 
Tract  (Massachusetts  General  Hospital)  — Diet  for 
Intestinal  Putrefaction    (Einhorn). 

XVIII     Diet  in  Disease  of  the  Gentto-Urinary  System   .      .   405 
Acute  Bright's  Disease  —  Chronic  Bright's  Disease 

—  Standard  Parenchymatous  Nephritis  Diet  (  New 
York  Post  Graduate  Hospital)  — Standard  Intersti- 
tial Nephritis  Diet  (New  York  Post  Graduate  Hos- 
pital)—  Diet  in  Uremia  (New  York  Post  Graduate 
Hospital)    —Albuminuria  (Thompson). 


ixiv  CONTENTS 

CHAPTER  PAGE 

XIX    Diet  in  Miscellaneous  Affections 411 

Nervous  Disorders  —  Diet  in  Cancer  and  Skin  Dis- 
eases (New  York  Skin  and  Cancer  Hospital)  — 
Dietetic  Management  of  Surgical  Cases  —  Diet  After 
Laparotomy,  Ovariotomy,  etc.    (Thompson). 

DIET  IN  SPECIAL  CONDITIONS 

XX    Motherhood 417 

Diet  in  Pregnancy  —  Vomiting  of  Pregnancy  — 
(Vomiting  of  Seasickness)  Thompson  —  Diet  for  the 
Mother  after  Labor  —  Diet  for  a  Nursing  Mother  or 
Wet  Nurse   ( Thompson ) . 

XXI     Infant  Feeding 422 

Process  of  Digestion  —  Breast  Feeding  —  Nursing 
Mother  —  Technique  of  Nursing  —  Regularity  in 
Nursing  —  How  Often  to  Feed  —  Supplementary 
Feeding  —  What  to  Feed  —  How  Much  to  Feed  — 
Capacity  of  Baby's  Stomach  —  Weight  —  How  to 
Weigh  the  Baby  —  Artificial  Feeding  —  Difference  in 
Composition  Between  Human  and  Cow's  Milk  —  Milk 

—  How  to  Feed  the  Baby  —  What  to  Feed  —  General 
Principles  of  Milk  Modifications  —  The  Character  of 
the  milk  may  be  Altered,  Chemically  —  What  Dilu- 
tion to  Use  — Modified  Whole  Milk  — Top  Milk 
Method  in  Infant  Feeding  (L.  Emmett  Holt,  M.D.), 
Formulas  from  Whole  (4%)  Milk,  Top  Milk  Modifi- 
cation, Schedule  for  Feeding  Healthy  Infants  During 
the  First  Year,  Simple  Method  of  Calculating  a  Milk 
Formula  on  a  Basis  of  Caloric  Requirements   (Holt) 

—  Preparation  of  the  Food ;  Home  Modification  — 
Care  of  Bottles  —  How  to  Give  the  Baby  the  Bottle  — 
Normal  Feeding  —  Underfeeding  —  Overfeeding  — 
Drinking  Water  —  Feeding  of  Older  Infants  —  Wean- 
ing. 

XXII    The   Feeding  of   Young   Children 455 

General  Rules  for  Feeding  Young  Children  —  Table 
of  Comparison,  Food  Required  by  Child  and  Man  — 
Table  Showing  Increase  of  Calories  Required  for  a 
Growing  Child  —  Dietaries  for  Young  Children  — 
General  Principles  of  Feeding  Sick  Children. 


CONTENTS  xit 

OHAPTEB  PAGE 

XXIII     Diet  for  the  Adolescent  —  Diet  fob  the  Sedentary  464 
—  Diet  for  the  Aged  —  Average  Weight  of  old  Men 
and  Women  —  Symonds's  Table  of  Height  and  Weight 
for  Men  at  Different  Ages  —  Symonds's  Table  of 
Height  and  Weight  fob  Women  at  Different  Ages 

Index  to   Recipes »    .  473 

General  Index 491 


PART  I 

PRINCIPLES  OF  NUTRITION  AND  FOOD 
PREPARATIONS 


PRACTICAL  DIETETICS 

CHAPTER  I 
FOOD:     ITS  OBJECT 

Maintenance  of  Life  and  Energy 

There  are  few  subjects  deserving  of  more  careful  consid- 
eration than  that  of  food;  its  composition,  preparation,  and 
effect  upon  the  human  system ;  together  with  the  process  of  its 
conversion  into  complex  animal  tissue,  as  brain  or  muscle, 
blood  or  bone. 

The  true  science  of  feeding  should  be  thoroughly  studied, 
that  we  may  understand  what  properties  enter  into  food; 
what  elements  the  system  demands  in  order  to  build  or  re- 
pair; by  what  means  the  necessary  substances  are  best  sup- 
plied, and  how  to  prepare  them  that  the  body  may  maintain 
its  efficiency ;  so  that  in  case  of  illness,  the  least  possible  de- 
mands upon  the  digestive  and  assimilative  functions  may  be 
made. 

Apart  from  the  labor  of  every-day  life  in  which  brain  and 
muscle  engage,  an  immense  amount  of  work  is  performed  in 
the  mere  act  of  keeping  alive.  Nowhere  in  nature  is  work 
I  without  a  supply  of  energy,  and  also  some  wear 
and  tear  of  the  machine  which  does  the  work.  This  asser- 
tion is  as  true  of  the  human  body  as  of  the  locomotive,  and 
just  as.  the  machine  —  whatever  it  may  be  —  requires  to  be 
supplied  with  the  conditions  necessary  for  the  production  of 
force,  so  the  living  body  similarly  demands  a  supply  of  ma- 
terial from  which  its  energy  —  the  power  of  doing  the  work  — 
can  be  taken.     As  the  locomotive  obtains  the  necessary  con- 

3 


4  PRACTICAL  DIETETICS 

ditions  from  the  fuel  and  water  (and  air)  which  it  consumes, 
so  the  living  body  carries  on  its  activities  by  means  of  the 
food,  water  and  air  upon  which  it  subsists. 

Definition  of  Food.  Foods  are  substances  which  when 
taken  into  the  body  supply  the  necessary  elements  for  pro- 
moting its  growth  and  repairing  its  waste ;  and  furnish  it  with 
material  from  which  to  produce  heat  and  internal  or  external 
work.  Substances  that  are  unable  to  assist  in  either  of  these 
ways  are  called  food  accessories  or  food  adjuncts. 

Food  Accessories  or  Food  Adjuncts.  These  are  substances 
which,  although  unable  to  fulfill  the  definition  of  foods,  find 
an  extensive  use  in  the  dietary,  for  a  variety  of  reasons. 
They  give  flavor  to  food,  increase  the  appetite,  stimulate 
secretion,  and  thus  aid  the  digestive  functions.  They  com- 
prise two  classes,  viz.,  condiments  and  beverages. 

Source  of  Food.  Food  occurs  in  the  mineral,  plant  and 
animal  kingdoms.  It  occurs  in  all  physical  forms  of  matter 
—  gases,  liquids  and  solids.  Gases  are  mentioned  because 
oxygen  is  a  true  food  and  metabolized  to  a  certain  degree, 
being  always  present  in  the  blood  and  tissues  in  loose  chem- 
ical combination. 

Composition  of  the  Body.  The  human  body  contains  many 
chemical  elements  in  varying  amounts. 

Nitrogen,  carbon,  hydrogen,  and  oxygen  are  the  four  pres- 
ent in  largest  proportion;  iron,  phosphorus,  calcium,  mag- 
nesium, potassium,  sodium,  sulphur,  chlorin,  iodin,  also  have 
important  offices  to  perform. 

Composition  of  Food.  Foods  must  contain  the  same  ele- 
ments found  in  the  body;  thus  it  is  that  they  are  able  to 
build  and  maintain  the  body  structure.  But  no  "  one  food  " 
contains  all  these  elements  in  proper  proportions  for  all  per- 
sons; therefore,  it  is  by  combinations  of  the  various  food 
stuffs  that  we  produce  a  suitable  diet.  These  elements  must 
further  be  supplied  in  forms  which  the  body  can  use.  It 
cannot  utilize  carbon  in  the  form  of  coal,  for  example,  but 
must  have  it  combined  in  special  ways  with  hydrogen  and 
oxygen.     These  combinations  of  elements  or   "  Food   Com- 


CLASSIFICATION  OF  FOOD  5 

pounds"  found  in  nature  (sometimes  called  "alimentary" 
or  "food  principles"  and  "food  stuffs"),  are  usually  classi- 
fied as  proteins,  fats,  carbohydrates,  mineral  matter  (or  salts) 
and  water. 

Food,  as  it  is  taken  into  the  body  still  differs  in  composi- 
tion from  the  material  utilized  by  the  tissues  in  growth, 
repair  of  waste,  and  production  of  energy  in  the  form  of  work 
or  heat.  It  must  be  finally  prepared  for  the  use  of  the  body 
by  the  processes  involved  in  Digestion. 

CLASSIFICATION   OF  FOOD 

Foods  may  be  classified  in  various  ways : 

a.  According  to  Source,  as  animal,  vegetable,  and  mineral 
(including  oxygen  for  combustion). 

b.  According  to  Chemical  Composition,  as  organic  and  in- 
organic, the  organic  foods  being  further  subdivided  into  ni- 
trogenous and  non-nitrogenous  substances. 

c.  According  to  Function,  as  tissue-formers,  or  body-build- 
ers; energy  (or  work  and  heat)  producers;  and  regulators  of 
body  processes. 

Classification  according  to  Chemical  Composition 
Nitrogenous  —  Proteins 


Organic i 


f  Carbohydrates  J      ° 

Non-nitrogenous  \  1  Starches 

Fats  L 


fMineral  Matter 
Inorganics 

[Water 

Classification  according  to  Function 
f  Proteins 

Tissue-formers  or  Body-builders         -j  Mineral  Matter 

[Water 
rCarbohydrates 

Energy  or  Work  and  Heat  Producers  J  Fats 

[Proteins 


6  PRACTICAL  DIETETICS 

Regulators  of  Body  Processes  j  *%£*  Matter 

Important  Sources  of  Proteins: 

Milk,  eggs,  meat,  fish,  cheese,  beans,  peas,  lentils,  some  nuts 
and  cereals. 
Important  Sources  of  Fats: 

Olive  oil,  butter,  cream,  bacon  and  other  fat  meat,  and  nuts. 
Important  Sources  of  Carbohydrates: 

Cereals,  and  cereal  products;  sago,  tapioca;  starchy  veg- 
etables, such  as  potatoes ;  sugar,  honey,  sweet  dried  fruits. 
Important  Sources  of  Mineral  Matter: 

a.  Available  in  organic  form: 

Nitrogen, —  supplied  by  protein. 

Phosphorus, —  in  milk  and  cream,  eggs    (especially 

the  yolk),  meat,  whole  wheat,  oatmeal,  dried  peas 

and  beans. 
Iron, —  in  eggs    (especially  the  yolk),  meat,  whole 

wheat,  oatmeal,  dried  and  fresh  peas  and  beans, 

spinach,  raisins  and  prunes. 

b.  Available  in  organic  or  inorganic  form : 

Calcium,  in  milk,  dried  beans  and  peas,  oranges, 
spinach,  turnips ;  other  fresh  fruits  and  vegetables, 
and  whole  grains. 

Magnesium,  potassium,  iodin,  etc. —  likely  to  be 
adequately  supplied  if  the  other  ash  constituents 
are  provided  for.  The  addition  of  sodium  chloride 
(common  salt)  as  a  condiment  usually  supplies  a 
surplus  of  sodium  and  chlorin. 

Special  Functions  of  each  Food  Principle: 

Proteins  —  Supply  energy,  nitrogen,  sulphur,  and  some- 
times phosphorus  and  iron. 

Fats  —  Supply  energy  in  the  most  concentrated  form. 

Carbohydrates  — ■  Supply  energy  in  the  form  most  econom- 
ical to  the  body. 

Mineral  Matter  —  Supplies  building  material,  except  nitro- 
gen and  sulphur,  and  helps  to  regulate  body  processes. 


CONDITIONS  FOR  PERFECT  NUTRITION        7 

Water  —  Supplies  building  material  (forming  60  per  cent, 
of  the  body),  and  helps  to  regulate  body  processes. 

CONDITIONS  FOR  PERFECT  NUTRITION 

For  the  proper  support  of  the  human  system,  a  combina- 
tion of  nitrogenous  and  non-nitrogenous  foods  is  essential, 
with  water  to  dissolve  them  and  oxygen  to  burn  them.  Al- 
though air  is  not  classified  as  a  food  it  is  essential  to  effect 
the  chemical  changes  needful  for  assimilation.  "  About  two 
thousand  cubic  feet  of  air  need  to  pass  through  the  lungs  of 
an  adult  daily  in  order  to  furnish  oxygen  in  sufficient  quan- 
tity. If  there  is  lack  in  this  most  important  food-stuff  (and 
nothing  else  can  take  its  place),  starvation  as  truly  results 
as  if  other  food  were  withheld,  for  the  changes  required  for 
nutrition  cannot  take  place,  and  furthermore  incomplete  de- 
composition occurs,  which  may  result  in  more  or  less  poison- 
ous products. 

"  Fresh  air  —  air  with  its  quota  of  oxygen  —  is,  then,  a 
prime  requirement  in  nutrition." —  Ellen  H.  Kichards. 

A  Perfect  Food.  1.  "  A  perfect  food  must  contain  all  the 
nutritive  elements  of  the  body :  Proteins,  carbohydrates,  fats, 
minerals,  and  water. 

2.  It  must  contain  these  in  their  proper  proportions. 

3.  It  must  contain  in  a  moderate  compass  the  total  amount 
required  daily. 

4.  The  nutritive  elements  must  be  capable  of  easy  absorp- 
tion, and  yet  leave  a  certain  bulk  of  unabsorbed  matter  to 
act  as  intestinal  ballast.  It  must  be  obtainable  at  a  mod- 
erate cost." —  Hutchinson. 

A  Mixed  Diet  therefore  is  necessary,  as  no  "one  food" 
fulfills  all  the  requirements  of  a  "  perfect  food."  A  mixed 
diet  must  be  taken  whereby  one  food  may  be  used  to  sup- 
plement what  is  lacking  in  another.  The  foods  best  for 
health  are  those  best  fitted  to  the  needs  of  the  individual. 
The  cheapest  food  is  that  which  furnishes  the  largest  amount 
of  nutriment  at  the  least  cost.  The  best  food  is  that  which 
is  both  healthful  and  cheapest. 


8 


PRACTICAL  DIETETICS 


NITROGENOUS  FOODS 

Nitrogenous  substances  are  those  which  contain  nitrogen, 
an  element  which  is  essential  to  the  life  of  every  cell. 

Classification.  In  older  classifications,  the  term  Protein 
is  used  to  include  all  food  substances  containing  nitrogen, 
this  class  being  further  subdivided  into  (1)  Proteids,  those 
proteins  which  can  alone  maintain  the  nitrogen  equilibrium 
of  the  body;  (2)  Albuminoids  or  Gelatinoids,  those  which 
contain  nitrogen  in  a  form  which  can  replace  other  proteins 
only  to  a  limited  extent;  (3)  Extractives,  containing  nitro- 
gen in  a  form  unable  to  make  good  the  body  loss  of  nitrogen. 
These  extractives  are  properly  food  accessories. 

Proteins  are  now  defined  as  compounds  of  carbon,  hydrogen, 
oxygen,  nitrogen,  sulphur,  and  sometimes  phosphorus,  which 
contain  nitrogen  in  a  form  which  the  body  can  use.  They  are 
variously  classified,  but  a  simple  division  is  one  into  (1) 
Simple  Proteins,  (2)  Compound  Proteins,  and  (3)  Albumi- 
noids. Examples  of  simple  proteins  are  albumins,  globulins, 
and  certain  alcohol-soluble  proteins  found  in  cereals,  as  the 
gliadin  of  wheat ;  of  compound  proteins,  the  nucleo-protein  of 
organs  consisting  chiefly  of  nucleated  cells,  as  pancreas  or 
sweetbread,  and  the  haemoglobin  of  the  blood ;  of  albuminoids, 
the  familiar  product,  gelatin,  formed  from  the  collagen  of 
connective  tissue: 


Proteins 


Simple 


Albumins,  e.  g. 


White  of  egg. 

Casein  of  milk. 

Myosin  of  muscle. 

Fibrin  of  blood. 

Gluten  of  wheat. 
Jjegumin  of  legumes. 

Globulins,   e.   g In  grains. 

fGliadin  of  wheat. 
Alcohol-soluble  proteins  e.  g.   .  .-< 

LZein  of  maize. 


Compound 


{Nucleo-protein,  e.  g.  in  liver  and  sweetbread. 
Haemoglobin  of  blood. 
Albuminoid    Collagen  of  connective  tissue. 


NITROGENOUS  FOODS  9 

/rce.  The  proteins  of  the  diet  are  derived  both  from  the 
animal  and  vegetable  kingdoms.  The  principal  animal  pro- 
teins are  obtained  from  meats,  fish,  eggs,  and  milk.  Meat 
and  fish  proteins  are  derived  principally  from  the  muscles; 
egg  proteins  from  both  the  white  and  yolk;  milk  proteins 
chierly  from  the  casein,  which  forms  the  main  constituent  of 
cheese  and  curds.  Animal  foods  are  much  richer  in  protein 
than  plant  foods.  The  only  substances  of  vegetable  origin 
which  can  compare  with  animal  nutrients  in  this  respect  are 
the  legumes  (peas,  beans,  lentils,  peanuts,  etc.),  and  certain 
nuts,  such  as  almonds,  pine  nuts,  cocoa  beans  (the  source  of 
cocoa  and  chocolate).  The  entire  grain  of  some  cereals  pos- 
sesses a  high  percentage  of  protein;  this  is  particularly  true 
of  so-called  hard  wheat,  and  in  lesser  degree  of  oats,  Indian 
corn,  rye,  and  barley.  As  a  rule,  flour  and  meal  are  about 
half  as  rich  in  protein  as  the  dried  grains  from  which  they 
are  prepared,  though  oatmeal  and  Indian  meal  lose  but  lit- 
tle through  milling. 

Animal  foods  are  usually  digested  with  ease,  and  require 
less  cooking  and  less  mastication  to  insure  good  utilization; 
in  the  form  of  meat,  they  are  liked  because  of  their  high 
flavor  and  stimulating  properties.  In  vegetable  foods,  on 
account  of  the  presence  of  cellulose,  some  of  the  protein  is 
likely  to  escape  digestion  and  absorption.  For  the  invalid 
or  convalescent,  certain  animal  foods  are  preferred  as  a 
source  of  protein,  as  being  more  concentrated,  and  easier  of 
digestion.  Of  ordinary  vegetable  food  rich  in  protein,  bread, 
either  stale  and  dry,  or  thoroughly  toasted,  is  perhaps  the 
most  suitable  for  invalids.  Starchy  roots  and  tubers  (as 
potatoes),  and  green  vegetables  and  fruits,  though  valuable 
for  other  dietetic  reasons,  are  very  poor  in  protein. 

Animal  Proteins.  The  albumins  in  the  ordinary  diet  are 
derived  chiefly  from  animal  foods.  The  white  of  egg  is  a 
very  pure  form  of  this  compound,  and  eggs  constitute  one 
of  the  best  sources  of  nitrogen  in  a  compact  and  assimilable 
form,  especially  convenient  as  they  are  readily  taken  raw. 

Casein,   the   chief   protein   of   milk,   represents   the   main 


10  PRACTICAL  DIETETICS 

source  of  this  food  element  for  infants  and  the  sick.  One 
quart  of  milk  contains  as  much  protein  as  six  ounces  of  lean 
beeksteak,  and  is  more  valuable  because  of  its  rich  supply 
of  mineral  matter,  to  say  nothing  of  the  fat  and  carbohydrate 
present. 

Myosin  is  the  typical  protein  in  muscle  tissue.  After  death 
it  changes  to  a  form  called  syntonin. 

Fibrin  and  Serum  Albumin,  found  in  blood,  occur  to  a 
slight  extent  along  with  myosin  in  meat. 

The  only  albuminoid  which  requires  consideration  here  is 
collagen,  a  protein  found  in  all  connective  tissues,  including 
the  modified  forms,  such  as  cartilage  and  bone.  This  sub- 
stance is  changed  by  boiling  to  gelatin.  This  is  further  al- 
tered by  the  gastric  juice  to  gelatoses  and  gelatin-peptones, 
and  finally  absorbed,  but  it  lacks  certain  elements  found  in 
albumins  and  other  proteins,  and  consequently  cannot  be  re- 
lied upon  exclusively  as  a  source  of  nitrogen  for  the  body. 
It  can  replace  about  two-thirds  of  the  ordinary  protein  re- 
quirement. 

Vegetable  Proteins.  These  are  chiefly  globulins.  The 
main  representatives  of  the  albumins  in  vegetable  food  are 
gluten  of  wheat  and  legumin  of  the  legumes.  A  number  of 
alcohol-soluble  proteins  occur,  such  as  gliadin  in  wheat  and 
zein  in  Indian  corn.  Vegetables  contain  a  large  number  of 
nitrogenous  substances  which  are  not  proteins.  Thus  while 
mushrooms  contain  much  nitrogen,  little  of  it  is  in  a  form 
which  can  be  utilized  by  the  body. 

Function  of  Proteins.  Proteins  are  both  body-builders  and 
energy-producers,  but  are  little  utilized  as  fuel  when  carbo- 
hydrates and  fats  are  well  represented  in  the  diet.  As  a  fuel, 
they  tend  to  burn  up  rapidly,  and  hence  are  not  economical, 
and  since  in  health  only  a  small  proportion  of  nitrogen  is 
used  from  day  to  day,  the  part  not  needed  being  promptly 
excreted,  it  is  not  advantageous  to  have  the  diet  largely  com- 
posed of  this  foodstuff.  During  the  periods  of  rapid 
growth,  in  the  prenatal,  infantile  and  adolescent  states,  when 
the  body  is  forming  new  tissue  at  an  unusual  rate,  there  must 


NITROGENOUS  FOODS  11 

be  a  liberal  nitrogen  supply.  This  is  also  true  in  conva- 
lescence from  wasting  disease,  and  sometimes  after  excessive 
physical  exertion,  when  the  muscle  tissue  is  actually  increas- 
ing. In  health,  when  fats  and  carbohydrates  are  liberally 
provided,  so  that  the  protein  is  not  required  as  fuel,  a  com- 
paratively small  amount  is  needed  for  repair  of  tissue.  This 
is  especially  true  in  old  age.* 

Nitrogenous  Extractives.  Substances  found  in  muscle 
juice,  consisting  chiefly  of  creatin,  creatinin,  and  purins 
(uric  acid  and  related  substances),  are  valuable  only  as  stim- 
ulants. They  give  sapidity  to  meats  and  hence  are  appetiz- 
ing; possess  the  power  of  stimulating  the  flow  of  gastric  juice, 
and  by  their  influence  on  the  nervous  system,  gently  in- 
crease the  activity  of  the  heart.  For  this  reason,  beef  tea, 
beef  extracts,  etc.,  are  of  value  to  the  sick. 

Cooking  of  Protein.  Of  all  the  proteins,  "Albumin,"  of 
which  there  are  many  varieties,  is  the  most  important  and 
needs  most  care  in  the  cooking  to  make  it  easily  digested. 

The  majority  of  albumins  are  soluble  in  cold  water  and 
vegetable  acids;  they  are  coagulated  by  heat,  mineral  acids- 
and  alcohol.  The  cooking  of  albumin  should  be  governed  by 
these  facts. 

"  As  the  white  of  the  egg  is  nearly  pure  albumin  it  will 
serve  as  an  excellent  substance  for  demonstrating  the  effect 
of  heat  on  the  principal  constituent  of  albuminous  foods." 

Effect  of  Temperature  or  Test  for  Cooking  Albumin 
Into  a  test  tube  put  some  white  of  egg,  place  in  a  sauce  pan 
of  cold  water,  heat  gradually,  and  observe  all  changes. 

1.  Eaw  white  of  egg  is  a  sticky,  clear,  pale  straw-colored 
liquid,  and  readily  digested. 

2.  When  water  reaches  the  temperature  134°  F.  white 
streaks  will  be  seen  in  a  semi-solid  white  substance  which  is 
found  to  be  readily  digested. 

3.  When  water  reaches  the  temperature  160°  F.  the  egg 
will  be  firm,  soft,  and  jelly-like,  and  is  readily  digested. 

4.  When  water  reaches  212°  F.  the  egg  will  be  tough  white 
jelly  and  less  readily  digested. 

*  See  note  page  106. 


12  PRACTICAL  DIETETICS 

5.  When  egg  is  heated  to  300°  F.  or  higher  (for  example 
put  the  test  tube  directly  over  flame),  the  egg  will  almost 
immediately  become  hard  and  tenacious. 

These  albumin  tests  demonstrate  that  albuminous  foods 
are  most  tender  and  readily  digested  when  cooked  at  a  low 
temperature  but  when  coagulated  at  too  high  a  temperature 
are  tough  and  indigestible. 

Eeheated  albuminous  foods  are  less  digestible  than  freshly 
cooked  because  the  albumin  is  much  hardened  by  the  second 
cooking.  The  principal  foods  requiring  care  in  preparation 
because  of  the  albumin  are  eggs,  meat,  and  fish.  These  will 
be  considered  further  under  their  separate  headings. 

NON-NITROGENOUS  FOODS 

CARBOHYDRATES   (SUGAR  AND  STARCH):    FATS 

Strictly  speaking,  any  food  substance  not  protein,  even 
water  and  mineral  water,  is  non-nitrogenous;  but  in  the  re- 
stricted sense  of  food  as  a  source  of  energy,  it  is  applied  to 
two  classes  of  organic  compounds  which  contain  no  nitrogen, 
viz.,  carbohydrates  and  fats. 

CARBOHYDRATES 

Definition.  Carbohydrates  are  food  substances  which  con- 
tain carbon,  hydrogen  and  oxygen.  The  oxygen  and  hydro- 
gen are  usually  present  in  proportion  to  form  the  water  mole- 
cule (H20).  These  substances  have  therefore  been  termed 
carbohydrates.  A  carbohydrate  may  be  defined  as  a  simple 
sugar,  or  a  substance  which  yields  simple  sugar  after  hy- 
drolysis. 

Source.  Carbohydrates  come  from  the  vegetable  kingdom 
almost  entirely.  There  are  a  few  exceptions,  such  as  glycogen 
and  milk  sugar.  They  abound  throughout  the  plant  world, 
but  especially  in  grains,  roots,  tubers,  or  wherever  the  plant 
stores  its  reserves. 

Function.  Carbohydrates  are  burned  up  in  the  body  to 
produce  energy  in  the  form  of  work  or  heat.  All  that  is 
taken  in  excess  of  immediate  need  is  stored,  first  as  glycogen 


NON-NITROGENOUS  FOODS 


13 


or  "animal  starch  "  in  the  liver  and  muscles;  and  when  the 
capacity  to  store  glycogen  is  exhausted,  in  the  form  of  fat. 
The  fuel  value  of  fat  is  two  and  one-fourth  times  that  of 
sugars  and  starches,  so  that  this  is  a  very  convenient  form 
of  storage  of  surplus  carbohydrate. 

The  Most  Important  Energy  Producing  Foods  are  cereals, 
potatoes,  tapioca,  sago,  fats,  sugar  and  honey. 

Classification.  Carbohydrates  include  the  monosaccharides, 
as  typified  in  grape  sugar;  the  disaccharides,  as  typified  in 
cane  sugar,  and  polysaccharides,  including  starch,  dextrin, 
gums,  cellulose  and  glycogen : 


Carbohydrates 


Monosaccharides 
CgHi^Oo 


Disaccharides 
CiaHoaOit 


Polysaccharides 
C6H10O6 


f  Grape    Sugar    (Dextrose   or   Glucose) 

Fruit-  Sugar    (Levulose) 
-j        (A  mixture  of  dextrose  and  levulose  is 
called    Invert    Sugar.      Honey    is    the 
I  best    example    in    nature) 

(Cane    Sugar      "j 
Beet   Sugar        Y  Sucrose 
Maple    Sugar   J 
Milk    Sugar  (Lactose) 

Malt    Sugar  (Maltose) 

f  Starch 
J  Dextrin 
"i  Glycogen 


Gums 


Cellulose 


Sugar 
Definition.  Sugars  are  carbohydrates  which  are  soluble, 
have  a  more  or  less  sweet  taste  and  many  minor  qualities 
which  distinguish  them  from  the  starches.  The  disaccharides 
yield  monosaccharides  under  the  influence  of  enzymes  or  on 
boiling  with  dilute  acids.  When  heated  to  a  high  tempera- 
ture sugars  form  caramel.  In  dietetics  we  are  especially 
concerned  with  grape  sugar  (dextrose),  milk  sugar  (lactose) 
and  cane  sugar  (sucrose). 

DEXTROSE  OR  GliAI'K   81  QAB    (GLUCOSE) 

Description,  Dextrose  occurs  as  a  syrup,  rarely  in  crystal- 
line form.  It  is  much  less  sweet  than  cane  sugar.  Other 
sugars  have  to  be  changed  to  this  form  before  the  body  can 
use  them. 


14  PRACTICAL  DIETETICS 

Sources.  It  is  found  throughout  the  vegetable  kingdom, 
•and  especially  in  fruits.  A  dried  fig  contains  65  per  cent, 
of  grape  sugar.  In  nature  it  is  formed  from  starch  and  so 
it  may  be  produced  in  art  by  treating  starch  with  acids.  It 
is  prepared  on  a  large  scale  from  cornstarch. 

Uses  as  Food.  Dextrose  or  grape  sugar  is  a  fuel  food  in 
one  of  its  most  readily  absorbed  forms.  It  does  not  require 
digestion  because  this  is  the  form  to  which  carbohydrates  of 
all  kinds  must  be  changed  before  they  can  be  of  use  to  the 
body.  Taken  in  large  quantities  it  is  liable  to  ferment,  or 
flood  the  system  with  sugar  too  rapidly,  but  as  naturally 
present  in  sweet  fruits,  or  in  its  artificial  form  in  small 
quantities  along  with  other  food-stuffs,  it  is  a  very  economical 
source  of  energy. 

LACTOSE 

Milk  Sugar  or  Lactose.  This  sugar  is  found  almost  ex- 
clusively in  milk,  from  which  it  is  commercially  prepared.  It 
has  little  sweetness  and  does  not  readily  ferment.  Until  re- 
cently it  has  entered  but  little  into  practical  dietetics,  save 
in  case  of  infants  or  others  subsisting  wholly  or  partly  on 
milk,  but  its  ease  of  assimilation  and  its  mild  flavor,  make 
it  frequently  a  valuable  source  of  energy  in  disease,  and  it 
is  more  and  more  widely  used. 

CANE   SUGAR 

Pure  cane  sugar  is  chemically  the  same  as  beet-sugar. 
Maple  sugar  would  not  be  different  from  common  sugar,  if 
it  were  sufficiently  purified  to  remove  the  flavoring  matter. 

Description.  Cane  sugar  occurs  naturally  in  crystals,  some 
of  which  are  extremely  hard  (rock  candy)  ;  and  in  syrups,  one 
of  which  is  molasses. 

Sources,  etc.  Cane  sugar  is  found  in  the  sap  or  juices  of 
a  variety  of  plants,  including  sugar  cane,  the  beet,  the  sugar 
maple,  etc.  Whether  obtained  by  collecting  sap  or  crushing, 
etc.,  it  is  always  at  first  a  syrup  and  all  solid  sugar  is  obtained 
from  these  juices  by  various  methods. 

Uses  as  Food.  Cane  sugar  enters  into  the  dietary  very 
largely,  pure  for  table  use   and  in  confectionery,  or  in  com- 


NON-NITROQENOUS  FOODS  15 

binations  with  other  foods  in  cookery.  It  is  a  very  valuable 
sou  ire  of  energy,  but  must  be  used  with  discretion,  because 
in  too  Large  amounts  or  in  too  concentrated  form  it  is  irri- 
tating to  the  stomach  and  liable  to  ferment,  and  also  be- 
cause being  quickly  absorbed,  it  satisfies  the  appetite  before 
the  need  for  food  has  been  entirely  met,  or  blunts  it  so  that 
other  foods  become  distasteful.  A  pound  of  sugar  and  a 
pound  of  pure  cornstarch  are  nearly  equal  in  energy  value.* 
For  children,  it  is  much  better  to  give  sugar  in  the  form  of 
sweet  fruits,  because  they  are  then  supplied  with  valuable 
mineral  salts  which  are  entirely  lacking  in  pure  sugar. 

Substitute  for  Sugars.  Since  sugar  is  used  not  only  as  a 
fuel  food  but  as  a  condiment,  attempts  have  been  made  to 
secure  a  substitute  for  use  in  cases  where  carbohydrate  is 
limited  or  denied.  The  best  known  of  these  is  "  saccharin  " 
or  u  Bweetina,"  a  crystalline  coal-tar  product.  It  is  many 
times  sweeter  than  sugar,  but  it  has  no  food  value. 

I  rse  of  Sugar  in  Practical  Dietetics.  Sugar  taken  in  small 
quantities  will  replace  starch  weight  for  wreight,  and  be  more 
easily  and  quickly  absorbed.  The  amount  of  sugar  which 
can  be  taken  in  place  of  other  fuel  food  depends  on  the 
amount  of  exercise  and  the  peculiarities  of  the  individual. 
An  excess  of  sweets  may  cause  nausea  and  always  blunts  the 
appetite,  thus  cutting  down  the  consumption  of  other  foods. 
If  a  very  large  amount  be  taken,  sugar  will  appear  in  the 
urine.  The  maximum  advisable  daily  allowance  of  sugar  is 
considered  to  be  about  four  ounces. 

Sugar  should  be  avoided  in  gastric  disorders,  such  dis- 
turhanees  of  nutrition  as  gout,  rheumatism,  and  especially 
diabetes.  Being  a  highly  concentrated  food,  it  should  be 
avoided  in  obesity. 

Uses  of  Sugar  in  Cookery.  Glucose  is  not  so  sweet  as  cane 
sugar,  so  that  when  used  for  sweetening  other  foods  a  larger 
amount  must  be  taken.  In  cooking  fruits,  sugar  should  be 
added  when  the  process  is  nearly  complete,  as  it  tends  to 
harden  the  fruit  tissues.  By  boiling  for  a  long  time  or  in 
the  presence  of  acids  (whether  naturally  in  the  fruit  or  added 

A    pnnnd    of    sugar    might    all    be    eaten    quickly,    but    it    would    be    almost 
impossible  to  Ml  a  pound  of  cooked  eonstareh  at  once. 


16  PRACTICAL  DIETETICS 

to  it)  cane  sugar  is  changed  to  invert  sugar,  which  is  a 
mixture  of  equal  parts  of  dextrose  and  levulose.  While  dex- 
trose is  not  so  sweet  as  cane  sugar,  levulose  is  very  much 
sweeter,  so  that  the  resulting  product  has  a  peculiar,  pene- 
trating sweetness  that  is  not  so  well  liked  as  the  cane  sugar 
flavor.  This  is  another  reason  for  reserving  the  sugar  till 
the  end  of  the  cooking  process. 

Test  for  Sugar.  A  simple  test  for  sugar,  irrespective  of 
whether  it  is  glucose  or  cane  sugar,  consists  in  adding  a  little 
33  per  cent,  solution  of  caustic  soda  to  the  suspected  solution, 
and  boiling.     If  sugar  is  present  the  solution  turns  brown. 

The  chief  test  for  glucose  or  grape  sugar  alone  is  Fehling's. 
A  test  solution  should  be  on  hand,  and  may  be  obtained  at  any 
apothecary's.  It  should  be  obtained  fresh.  The  test  is  based 
on  the  fact  that  glucose  "  reduces  "  salts  of  copper,  i.  e.,  by 
depriving  them  of  some  of  their  oxygen,  an  insoluble  oxide 
of  copper  is  precipitated.  The  test  solution  contains  sulphate 
of  copper,  caustic  potash  and  tartrate  of  sodium  and  potas- 
sium. To  make  the  test,  add  to  a  portion  of  the  test  solution 
a  few  drops  of  the  suspected  solution  in  a  test  tube  and  boil. 
If  a  red  substance  precipitates,  glucose  is  present.  The  sole 
use  of  this  test  for  the  nurse  will  probably  be  in  connection 
with  diabetes,  when  the  nurse  makes  the  test  at  the  request  of 
the  medical  attendant.  In  all  other  tests  for  sugar,  the  first 
test  mentioned  above  will  suffice,  and  would  also  suffice  for  dia- 
betic urine  were  it  not  for  the  fact  that  a  shamming  patient 
cculd  deceive  the  nurse  by  placing  common  sugar  in  her  urine. 

Starch  and  Other  Polysaccharides 

Starchy  foods  form  a  large  part  of  the  ordinary  diet  of 
man ;  they  are  the  chief  source  of  the  carbohydrates.  Starch, 
unlike  sugar,  is  insoluble  but  may  be  made  to  pass  into  a 
soluble  form  by  dry-heating  at  high  temperature,  or  by  cer- 
tain digestive  ferments.  The  first  bodies  formed  are  known 
as  dextrins,  but  ultimately  a  sugar  (maltose)  is  produced. 
The   alimentary   starches  may   be   said   to    comprise   starch 


NON-NITROGENOUS  FOODS  17 

proper;  dextrine  or  soluble  starches;  and  glycogen  or  animal 
stai\h,  which  is  stored  up  in  the  liver. 

Source.  Starch  occurs  widely  in  the  vegetable  kingdom, 
along  with  grape  sugar.  It  is  found  in  largest  amounts  in 
grains,  seeds,  roots  and  tubers.  It  is  prepared  for  the  market 
chiefly  by  mechanical  means,  being  washed  out  of  the  finely 
cut  vegetable  substances.  Its  main  commercial  source  is 
probably  wheat,  but  it  is  also  made  largely  from  potatoes,  rice, 
arrow-root,  etc. 

Description.  In  its  pure  state,  i.  e.,  when  isolated  from 
proteins,  cellulose,  gum,  etc.,  starch  is  a  shining  white  pow- 
der having  a  distinctive  quality  to  the  touch.  Under  the 
microscope  it  is  found  to  consist  of  granules,  which  are  in- 
soluble in  cold  water.  When  heated  to  a  high  temperature, 
these  granules  undergo  a  certain  amount  of  transforma- 
tion into  soluble  starch  and  dextrin.  Boiling  the  starch 
in  water  has  the  same  results.  The  action  of  the  group 
of  ferments  known  as  diastases  is  to  transform  starch  suc- 
cessively into  soluble  starch,  dextrin,  and  finally  maltose 
(malt  sugar). 

Uses  as  Food.  Starch  is  seldom  used  pure  in  dietaries,  but 
with  other  food  principles  in  the  form  of  various  flours  and 
bread  made  from  them,  or  as  breakfast  cereals,  legumes,  po- 
tatoes, etc.  The  breads  baked  from  wheat  flour  are  among 
the  most  widely  distributed  foods. 

Other  Polysaccharides.  Aside  from  starch  and  sugar  the 
polysaccharides  contribute  but  little  to  dietetic  uses.  Cellu- 
lose, the  framework  of  plants,  constitutes  the  largest  propor- 
tion of  their  bulk.  It  is  the  principal  part  of  the  so-called 
"  indigestible  residue  "  of  digestion ;  and  hence  the  amounf 
of  the  residue  varies  greatly  with  the  nature  of  the  food 
eaten.  Without  nutritive  value,  it  is  still  believed  to  be  of 
service  as  a  stimulant  to  intestinal  peristalsis,  by  acting  as 
a  gentle  mechanical  irritant;  by  helping  to  retain  moisture 
and  keep  the  feces  soft;  and  by  giving  such  bulk  that  the 
intestinal  muscles  can  act  to  good  advantage.  When  attacked 
by  bacteria,  it  forms  acids  which  are  valuable  checks  to  in- 


18  PRACTICAL  DIETETICS 

testinal  putrefaction.  Unless  it  is  desirable  for  some  special 
reason  to  relieve  the  digestive  tract  of  all  work,  a  certain 
amount  of  cellulose  should  be  included  in  the  diet.  In  con- 
stipation the  addition  of  some  non-irritating  form,  as  agar- 
agar  has  proved  a  successful  therapeutic  measure. 

Gums,  taken  incidentally  into  the  body,  represent  little  or 
no  nutritive  value,  and  like  cellulose  act  as  "  ballast." 

Principles  of  Cooking  Starch.  The  principles  involved  in 
the  cooking  of  starch  are  of  two  types  —  chemical  and  me- 
chanical. 

Chemical  Principles.  Since  raw  starch  is  digestible  only 
to  a  slight  degree,  it  is  essential  to  perfect  digestion  that 
starchy  foods  be  cooked. 

In  the  presence  of  moisture,  starch  is  made  soluble  at  the 
temperature  of  boiling  water,  i.  e.,  212°  F.  By  long  boiling, 
this  soluble  starch  can  be  converted  into  dextrin,  a  still  more 
easily  digested  form  than  soluble  starch.  This  principle  is 
applied  in  the  making  of  gruels,  especially  for  invalids  and 
infants. 

By  dry  heat,  at  a  temperature  considerably  above  212°  F. 
(300°  F.-4000  F.)  starch  can  be  converted  quite  readily  to 
dextrin.  This  principle  is  applied  in  making  toast.  Some 
of  the  starch  is  further  changed  to  caramel,  giving  a  char- 
acteristic flavor  to  the  crust  of  bread,  toast,  etc. 

Mechanical  Principles.  When  foods  composed  almost  en- 
tirely of  pure  starch,  such  as  flour,  cornstarch,  etc.,  are  to 
be  cooked  with  a  liquid,  care  must  be  taken  to  prevent  the 
formation  of  lumps,  for  these  are  not  only  unsightly,  but  con- 
sist of  an  outer  layer  of  soluble  starch  surrounding  a  center 
of  unchanged  material  and  preventing  its  being  made  di- 
gestible. 

There  are  three  methods  of  avoiding  lumps :  — 

1.  By  mixing  the  starch  gradually  with  a  small  portion 
of  cold  water,  so  that  a  smooth  fluid  mass  is 
formed,  before  adding  the  boiling  liquid.  This 
method  is  useful  in  making  gruels,  etc. 


XOX-XITROGEXOUS  FOODS  1\J 

2.  By  mixing  with  fat  before  adding  liquid.     The  melt- 

ing fat  separates  the  starch  granules.  At  least  as 
much  fat  as  starch  must  be  used.  The  liquid  is 
preferably  added  cold,  and  all  at  once.  If  added 
hot,  it  must  be  stirred  in  very  gradually.  This 
method  is  employed  in  making  gravies,  sauces,  etc. 

3.  By   mixing   with    sugar.     The   melting   sugar   serves 

to  separate  the  starch  grains.  This  is  practicable 
only  when  the  sugar  is  greater  in  amount  than  the 
starch,  and  the  liquid  must  be  added  gradually. 
This  method  is  applied  in  the  case  of  desserts,  such 
as  cornstarch  pudding. 

When  foods  consisting  of  a  mixture  of  starch  and  cellulose, 
as  cereal  breakfast  foods,  are  to  be  cooked,  it  is  necessary  to 
soften  and  break  up  the  cellulose  to  enable  the  digestive  juices 
to  reach  the  starch.  This  necessitates  long  cooking  at  a 
temperature  near  the  boiling  point.  The  longer  such  a  cereal 
product  is  cooked,  the  easier  of  digestion  it  becomes.  Hence 
it  is  an  excellent  rule  to  cook  such  foods  for  infants  and  others 
of  feeble  digestive  powers,  twice  as  long  as  is  commonly  recom- 
mended. 

Reheating  of  starchy  foods,  therefore,  tends  to  increase 
their  digestibility.  Zwieback  (or  twice-baked  bread)  is  more 
digestible,  for  example,  than  fresh  bread. 

Test  for  Starch.  Starch  is  colored  blue  by  iodin.  Hence 
it  is  easy  to  detect  its  presence  in  any  food.  To  make  the 
a  small  portion  of  the  material  should  be  placed  in  a 
test  tube,  boiled  with  a  little  water,  cooled,  and  two  or  three 
drops  of  dilute  tincture  of  iodin  added.  If  starch  is  present, 
the  blue  color  will  immediately  appear.  Dextrin  gives  a  port- 
wine  color  with  iodin,  so  that  if  any  of  this  substance  be 
present,  the  color  is  modified,  becoming  more  or  less  purplish, 
or  purple-red. 

FATS  AND   OILS 

Definition.  Fats  are  food-stuffs  having  the  same  ultimate 
chemical  composition  as  carbohydrates;  i.  e.,  consisting  of 


20  PRACTICAL  DIETETICS 

carbon,  hydrogen  and  oxygen,  but  the  latter  element  is  pres- 
ent in  less  proportion  than  in  carbohydrates.  Fats  were 
formerly  spoken  of  as  hydrocarbons,  but  this  term  is  now 
reserved  for  substances  which  contain  no  oxygen  at  all,  such 
as  benzine. 

Description.  True  fats,  whether  solid  or  oily,  are  chem- 
ically compounds  of  fatty  acids  with  glycerine,  and  differ 
among  themselves  according  to  the  particular  fatty  acids  they 
contain.  These  commonly  comprise  stearic,  palmitic  and 
oleic  acids.  The  stearates  or  combinations  of  stearic  acid 
with  glycerine  (also  generally  spoken  of  as  stearins)  are  solid 
fats  as  are  also  palmitates  or  palmitins.  The  oleates  or  oleins 
on  the  other  hand  are  fluid  at  ordinary  temperatures.  It 
is  therefore  evident  that  solid  fats  contain  much  more  stearin 
or  palmitin  than  olein,  while  fat  oils  consist  chiefly  of  olein. 
Stearin  is  found  only  in  fat  of  animal  origin.  Animal  fats 
are  therefore  a  mixture  of  all  three  classes,  while  vegetable 
fats  consist  of  mixtures  of  palmitins  and  oleins.  Suet  and 
tallow  owe  their  firmness  largely  to  the  amount  of  stearin 
present,  while  lard  owes  its  softness  to  the  amount  of  olein 
present.  Butter  consists  largely  of  palmitin.  The  most 
prominent  of  the  animal  fats  are  butter,  cream,  lard,  suet, 
tallow,  butterine,  oleomargarine  and  cod-liver  oil.  The  veg- 
etable oils  are  obtained  from  fruits  and  nuts  (olive,  cotton- 
seed, peanut,  cocoanut,  cocoa  bean  and  almond).  Vegetable 
oils  and  the  liver  oil  of  fish  are  composed  chiefly  of  olein. 
Certain  dietetic  substances  not  usually  thought  of  as  fatty, 
contain  much  oil.  Some  of  these  are  yolks  of  eggs,  Indian 
corn  and  nearly  all  nuts  except  chestnuts.  Artificial  products 
like  butterine  are  described  elsewhere.  They  are  often  pre- 
ferred to  butter  because  their  melting  point  is  lowered  by  the 
addition  of  suet  or  tallow  (beef-drippings)  so  that  they  keep 
better  in  warm  weather. 

Lecithin  is  a  substance  usually  classed  with  fats  and  oils. 
Besides  fatty  acids  it  contains  phosphorus.  It  is  a  necessary 
constituent  of  every  living  cell  and  is  especially  plentiful  in 
the  nervous  tissues.     At  present  it  is  used  to  a  considerable 


NON-NITROGENOUS  FOODS  21 

extent  in  medicine  in  the  belief  that  it  is  of  value  as  a  food- 
drag  and  reconstituent.  It  is  prepared  from  the  yolk  of  egg 
and  from  brain  substance.  Feeding  yolks  of  eggs  is  usually 
as  advantageous  and  cheaper. 

Volatile  Oils.  These,  as  already  stated,  have  little  in  com- 
mon with  true  oils.  They  stain  paper  only  temporarily, 
while  a  fat  stain  is  permanent.  They  vary  much  among 
themselves  in  composition  and  agree  chiefly  in  their  tendency 
to  disappear  by  evaporation;  and  their  odor,  taste  and  pun- 
gency. A  few  of  them  are  used  in  diet  for  flavoring.  The 
oil  of  bergamot  is  obtained  from  orange  peel,  oil  of  lemon 
from  lemon  peel,  etc.  Cooking  tends  to  volatilize  them,  so 
that  such  flavoring  should  be  added  at  the  last  moment. 

Sources  of  Fat  in  the  Diet.  The  chief  sources  of  fat  in  the 
diet  are  milk  (yielding  cream  and  butter),  olive  oil,  meat 
fats  (especially  lard,  bacon  and  salt  pork,  beef  suet  and  drip- 
pings), and  oily  nuts. 

Cheap  Forms  of  Fat.  Butter,  cream,  olive  oil,  lard,  etc., 
are  all  subject  to  adulteration  with  cheaper  fats,  but  aside 
from  the  fraud  in  charging  a  high  price  there  is  a  legitimate 
industry  for  making  cheaper  products  representing  these 
articles.  Thus  skim  milk  has  its  lost  cream  restored  by  a 
homogenized  meat  fat  containing  some  butter.  A  substitute 
for  butter  is  produced  from  animal  fats  and  sold  under  special 
names,  etc.  A  substitute  for  lard  with  a  higher  melting 
point  is  made  from  cottonseed  oil.  The  industry  is  yet  in  its 
infancy,  although  half  a  century  old.  The  more  expensive 
fats  are  prized  for  their  flavor,  but  the  cheaper  fats  care- 
fully refined  have  also  a  high  nutritive  value. 

Function.  Fats  are  burned  up  in  the  body  and  produce 
energy  in  the  form  of  work  or  heat.  According  to  Dr.  YV. 
Gilman  Thompson,  the  chief  uses  of  fats  are  as  follows: 

1.  To  furnish  energy  for  the  development  of  heat. 

2.  To  supply  force. 

3.  To  serve  as  covering  and  protection  in  the  body. 

4.  To  make  more  plastic  various  structures  of  the  body  and  give 
rotundity  to  the  form. 


22  PRACTICAL  DIETETICS 

5.  To  spare  the  tissues  from  disintegration;  for,  although  their 
combustion  in  the  body  results  largely  in  the  production  of  heat, 
they  also  take  to  some  extent  in  tissue  formation. 

6.  To  serve  for  storage  of  energy. 

Source  of  Body  Fat.  Twenty  per  cent,  of  the  normal 
weight  of  man  is  fat.  It  is  derived  mainly  from  fatty  foods 
and  carbohydrates.  Proteins  are  transformed  into  fat  only  to 
a  very  limited  degree.  It  is  most  readily  produced  from  car- 
bohydrates, or  a  mixture  of  carbohydrates  and  fats. 

Principles  of  Cooking.  Fats  are  more  digestible  cold  than 
hot,  because  hot  fat  tends  to  coat  and  intimately  penetrate 
the  food  with  which  it  is  cooked  or  eaten,  and  as  this  coating 
is  not  dissolved  by  the  digestive  juices  of  the  mouth  or 
stomach,  little  or  no  digestion  of  carbohydrate  and  protein 
can  take  place  in  either  of  these  places  under  such  circum- 
stances. Heating  fat  to  a  high  temperature  also  changes  its 
chemical  nature,  often  producing  irritating  substances  which 
interfere  with  digestion.  For  such  reasons  fried  food  should 
never  be  given  to  invalids. 

Digestibility.  The  majority  of  fats  are  not  very  easily  di- 
gested, consequently  are  not  tolerated  by  those  suffering  from 
indigestion  or  by  patients  acutely  ill;  their  use  should  be 
limited  to  finely  divided  forms,  as  in  milk  or  yolk  of  egg; 
it  is  sometimes  even  necessary  to  reduce  the  fat  in  milk  by 
skimming  off  the  cream,  or  to  limit  the  amount  of  yolk  of 
egg,  inasmuch  as  30  per  cent,  of  the  yolk  is  fat.  Other 
forms  of  fat  valuable  in  the  invalid's  dietary  are  butter,  cod- 
liver  oil,  and  fat  bacon  cooked  crisp.  All  fats,  except  limited 
quantities  of  butter  and  cream,  should  be  forbidden  in  acute 
diseases  of  the  stomach,  intestines  and  liver,  and  in  most  of 
the  chronic  affections.  Their  use  should  be  limited  also  in 
the  presence  of  gall  stones. 

Fatty  foods  should  be  prescribed  for  children  with  rickets 
and  for  all  who  have  diabetes.  In  the  latter  disease  they 
partly  replace  the  carbohydrates  which  cannot  be  used.  Fat 
may  be  prescribed  with  benefit  in  chronic  wasting  disease, 
such  as  tuberculosis,  and  during  convalescence  from  severe 


WATER  33 

acute  disease.  The  most  agreeable  and  digestible  forms 
should  be  given.  At  first  a  small  portion  only  should  be 
taken,  and  the  quantity  increased  in  proportion  to  a  patient's 
willingness  to  accept  it.  In  a  general  way  fats  and  oils  are 
laxative;  consequently  useful  in  case  of  constipation  and 
equally  harmful  where  there  is  a  tendency  to  diarrhoea. 

Comparative  Value  of  Fat  and  Carbohydrates  as  Fuel  Foods. 
Fats  and  carbohydrates  serve  the  same  purpose  in  the  body, 
in  that  they  furnish  energy.  Fats  are  not  as  easily  digested 
as  carbohydrates,  but  weight  for  weight  they  furnish  two  and 
one-fourth  times  as  much  energy. 

Tests  for  Fats.  Fats  are  readily  tested  with  paper;  if 
they  are  present  in  a  given  substance  a  permanent  grease- 
spot  appears.  If  to  a  suspected  substance  a  little  solution  of 
caustic  soda  is  added  a  white  precipitate  forms,  representing 
a  hard  soda  soap. 

WATER 

Composition  and  Properties.  Water  is  a  compound  of  hy- 
drogen and  oxygen,  consisting  of  two  parts  by  volume  of 
hydrogen  to  one  of  oxygen.  Absolutely  pure  water  is  color- 
less, odorless,  and  tasteless,  but  such  water  is  not  found  in 
nature,  owing  to  its  great  solvent  power,  which  causes  it  to 
dissolve  substances  with  which  it  comes  in  contact.  Water 
ordinarily,  therefore,  contains  varying  quantities  of  mineral 
and  organic  matter,  including  gases.  To  these  substances  in 
solution  the  characteristic  flavor  is  due.  Water  from  which 
the  air  has  been  expelled  by  long  standing  in  a  warm  place, 
or  by  boiling,  has  a  "  flat "  taste. 

Water  freezes  at  32°  F.  On  heating,  the  ice  melts,  and 
we  may  have  ice  water  with  a  temperature  of  32°  F.  When 
this  water  is  warmed,  the  air  dissolved  in  it  begins  to  expand, 
and  tiny  bubbles  appear,  forming  first  on  the  sides  of  the 
;,  and  tending  to  rise  to  the  surface.  If  the  water  there 
ifl  not  yet  warmed,  they  contract  and  sink,  but  finally  when 
the  water  is  warm  throughout,  come  to  the  surface  and  es- 
cape.    After  the  air  is  thus  expelled,  if  heating  is  continued. 


24  PRACTICAL  DIETETICS 

steam  bubbles  form  in  a  similar  manner.  At  185°  F.,  water 
bubbles  below  the  surface,  or  simmers.  When  the  bubbles 
reach  the  surface  and  break,  giving  off  a  cloud  of  steam,  the 
boiling  point  has  been  reached,  212°  F.  Except  under  pres- 
sure, water  can  then  become  no  hotter.  Fast  boiling  simply 
means  rapid  evaporations  and  waste  of  fuel. 

Source  of  Water  as  Food.  A  considerable  source  of  water 
is  food  itself.  In  green  vegetables  and  fruits  it  constitutes 
as  high  as  85  to  95  per  cent,  of  the  whole  substance;  in 
potatoes  and  other  starchy  vegetables  it  is  present  in  as  large 
amount  as  75  per  cent.  Even  in  seemingly  dry  foods,  as 
crackers,  there  may  be  as  much  as  5  to  10  per  cent.  But 
since  60  per  cent,  of  the  body  itself  is  composed  of  water,  and 
water  loss  through  the  lungs,  skin,  kidneys,  etc.,  is  very  con- 
stant, the  supply  in  ordinary  diet  is  not  sufficient,  and  water 
must  be  added  as  a  beverage.  This  may  be  in  the  form  of 
ordinary  drinking  water,  of  tea,  coffee,  or  other  similar  bev- 
erages and  of  medicinal  waters;  the  latter,  however,  should 
be  considered  chiefly  under  the  head  of  drugs. 

Functions  of  Water  in  the  Body.  Water  undergoes  no 
chemical  change  in  the  body,  yet  the  consideration  of  it  is  of 
vital  importance.  Solution  is  an  essential  part  of  digestion. 
Water  bathes  the  tissues  and  washes  away  our  waste  and  ex- 
crementitious  matter.  As  it  does  not  itself  undergo  any 
chemical  alteration  it  is  not  susceptible  of  liberating  force, 
consequently  is  not  an  energy-producing  agent,  but  contributes 
to  chemical  changes  by  supplying  a  necessary  condition  for 
their  occurrence. 

Dr.  Gilman  Thompson  summarizes  the  uses  of  water  in  the 
body  as  follows: 

1.  It  enters  into  the  chemical  combination  of  the  tissues. 

2.  It  forms  the  chief  ingredient  of  all  the  fluids  of  the  body  and 
maintains  their  proper  degree  of  dilution. 

3.  By  moistening  various  surfaces  of  the  body,  such  as  the  mucous 
and  serous  membranes,  it  prevents  friction  and  the  uncomfortable 
symptoms  which  might  result  from  their  drying. 

4.  It  furnishes  in  the  blood  and  lymph  a  fluid  medium  by  which 


WATER  25 

food  may  be  taken  to  remote  parts  of  the  body  and  the  waste  material 
removed,  thus  promoting  rapid  tissue  changes. 

5.  It   Bervea  aa  a  distributor  of  body  heat. 

6.  It  regulates  the  body  temperature  by  the  physical  processes  of 
absorption  and  evaporation. 

Professional  fasters  have  shown  that  one  may  live  for 
weeks  without  food,  but  it  may  readily  be  demonstrated  that 
a  warm-blooded  animal  except  in  a  state  of  hibernation  or 
trance  can  subsist  but  a  few  days  without  water. 

Food  Uses  of  Water.  Water  taken  in  considerable  quan- 
tities with  meals  favors  upward  metabolism  and  increases  the 
utilization  of  food.  Thirst  at  meals  does  not  always  mean 
a  true  body  demand  for  water,  as  it  may  be  due  to  condiments, 
or  to  improper  mastication  of  food.  Under  ordinary  circum- 
stances, about  three  or  four  pints  daily  are  necessary  to  make 
up  loss  of  water  that  is  constantly  being  eliminated  through 
the  skin,  kidneys,  lungs  and  intestines.  The  quantity  ex- 
creted daily  varies  greatly  under  special  conditions.  The  de- 
mand for  water  is  much  increased  by  hot  weather,  and  vio- 
lent exercise,  and  diminished  in  the  bedridden  and  sedentary. 
Babies,  delirious  patients,  etc.,  should  be  fed  water,  as  care- 
fully as  other  food. 

Classification  of  Varieties  of  Drinking  Waters.  The  clas- 
sification of  water  as  food  is  based  chiefly  on  its  purity  and 
palatability. 

Hard  and  Soft  Water.  Water  containing  calcium  (lime) 
or  magnesium  salts  is  known  as  hard  water ;  and  if  it  contains 
these  salts  in  excess  it  is  unsuited  not  only  for  drinking 
but  for  cooking  and  bathing,  unless  purified  or  softened.  As 
only  the  carbonates  can  be  expelled  from  the  water,  the  purifi- 
cation is  incomplete;  chlorides  and  sulphates  remain  behind. 
For  washing  purposes  the  carbonate  of  lime  may  be  precipi- 
tated by  treating  with  lye,  whereupon  it  rises  to  the  surface 
and  can  be  skimmed  off.  By  adding  soda  to  cooking  water, 
a  similar  softening  is  obtained  desirable  in  cooking  vegetables, 
<v  are  toughened  by  the  lime  and  sodium  chloride 
Finally,  for  drinking  purposes  hard  water  may  l><    subjected 


2G  PRACTICAL  DIETETICS 

to  prolonged  boiling  and  straining;  by  this  means  the  car- 
bonic acid  is  driven  off  and  the  lime  is  set  free.  It  must  be 
remembered  that  a  water  not  suited  for  domestic  uses  may 
still  be  fit  for  drinking  if  not  taken  in  great  excess,  because 
lime  and  magnesium  are  natural  ingredients  of  the  body. 

In  soft  water  only  a  small  amount  of  salts  are  found  and 
as  a  rule  it  is  more  desirable  to  use  for  cooking  purposes> 
especially  in  the  cooking  of  legumes  or  when  the  object  is 
to  extract  the  nourishment  or  flavor  of  food,  as  in  making 
tea  or  soup,  etc. 

Rain  water  is  naturally  pure  but  devoid  of  any  mineral 
content,  which  is  sometimes  a  disadvantage.  It  is  not  very 
palatable.  It  should  be  remembered  that  the  first  part  of  a 
rain  fall  carries  down  with  it  dust  and  impurities  from  the 
air,  but  the  latter  part  of  a  shower  furnishes  as  pure  water 
as  can  be  found  from  any  source. 

Spring  Water,  well  water,  etc.,  vary  greatly  in  the  amount 
of  mineral  matter,  organic  matter,  gases,  etc.,  present.  In 
many  cases  the  mineral  content  or  gas  content  is  such  as  to 
confer  a  medicinal  value.  In  other  cases  the  mineral  matter 
is  a  menace  to  health.  In  most  ground-water  there  is  organic 
matter  which  besides  being  undesirable  in  itself  invites  the 
presence  of  germs,  which  often  threaten  the  health  and  safety 
of  whole  communities.  Great  care  should  be  taken  as  to  the 
location  of  a  well ;  deep  spring  water  and  water  from  artesian 
wells  is  usually  pure.  City  water  is  usually  filtered  through 
sand  beds  and  otherwise  purified ;  the  law  requires  such  waters 
to  be  frequently  analyzed  as  to  purity. 

As  water  may  dissolve  the  lead  from  pipes  through  which 
'  it  flows,  it  should  be  allowed  to  run  several  minutes  before 
using  if  it  has  not  been  recently  run  off  (as  after  standing 
over  night)  to  avoid  the  risk  of  lead  poisoning. 

Filtered  Water  is  water  freed  from  organic  matter  of  all 

kinds.     It  should  be  pure  and  palatable.     But  filtered  water 

as  a  rule  cannot  be  depended  upon  for  purity  owing  to  the 

act  that  the  domestic  filters  require  constant  cleansing  and 


^YATER  27 

serve  to  condense  the  impure  organic  matter  which  putrefies 
upon  the  filter  and  renders  the  water  passed  through  them 
fooler  in  place  of  purer.  Small  filters  screwed  on  fail- 
ure of  no  value  whatever.  There  are  charcoal  and 
porcelain  filters  on  the  market  that  are  very  good,  but  are 
not  effective  unless  often  and  thoroughly  cleansed.  When 
there  is  the  least  doubt  as  to  the  purity  of  water  it  is  best  to 
boil  it. 

Boiled  Water.  Water  simply  sterilized  by  boiling  and 
kept  in  bottles  in  a  cool  place  is  extensively  used  when  there 
is  suspicion  as  to  its  purity.  It  is  rather  unpalatable.  Boil- 
ing renders  harmless  all  the  organic  impurities  and  precipi- 
tates salts  of  lime.  It  must  always  be  borne  in  mind  that 
typhoid  fever,  cholera,  dysentery  and  other  pestilences  are 
largely  water-borne  diseases,  and  whenever  there  is  any  sus- 
picion that  water  is  contaminated,  the  most  available  method 
for  purification  is  boiling.  Before  filling  the  bottles,  have 
them  thoroughly  cleansed  and  rinse  with  boiling  hot  water, 
as  a  few  drops  of  unboiled  water  would  be  sufficient  to  con- 
taminate the  whole.  To  prevent  breaking,  place  bottles  in 
pan  of  warm  water  before  pouring  in  the  boiling  water. 

Distilled  Water.  This  is  water  in  its  purest  state.  It  is 
said  by  many  authorities  to  be  unsuited  for  a  beverage  be- 
cause of  total  absence  of  mineral  matter  and  gases,  on  ac- 
count of  which  mineral  matter  is  greedily  abstracted  from 
the  walls  of  the  stomach,  thereby  causing  congestion  and  irri- 
tation. It  is  generally  used  for  medicinal  and  chemical  pur- 
poses. If  employed  as  a  beverage  it  should  be  aerated  to 
improve  the  flavor. 

Carbonated  Waters.  Ordinary  water  may  be  artificially 
charged  with  carbon  dioxid,  as  soda  water,  etc.  Among  the 
most  common  carbonated  waters  (naturally  charged)  are 
Vichy,  White  Kock  Water  and  Seltzer  (effervescing  waters) 
and  Poland  water  (uneffeirescing).  These  are  valuable  in 
of  fever  and  to  tempt  people  to  drink  more  water:  also  in 
relieving  nausea  and  vomiting.  They  are  used  to  advantage 
with  acid  drinks  and  to  dilute  alcoholic  liquors.     Carbonated 


28  PRACTICAL  DIETETICS 

water  of  any  kind  should  not  be  taken  in  excess,  as  such  waters 
are  apt  to  produce  indigestion,  by  retarding  the  action  of  the 
gastric  juice. 

Alkaline  Mineral  Waters  are  carbonated  (naturally 
charged)  and  differ  from  ordinary  water  in  the  greater 
amount  of  gaseous  (carbon  dioxid  and  sulphuretted  hydro- 
gen) and  solid  matter  (sodium  chloride,  potassium,  magne- 
sium, iron,  sulphur,  etc.,  etc.),  which  they  contain.  Some 
mineral  waters  have.no  medicinal  value  and  are  simply  used 
for  quenching  thirst;  others  have  purgative,  laxative  or  diu- 
retic effect.  The  following  are  a  few  examples  of  the  latter 
class  —  Sulphur  Spring,  Saratoga,  Vichy,  Hunyadi,  London- 
derry, and  Lithia  Waters. 

The  benefit  derived  from  the  water  cures  so  often  pre- 
scribed is  not  usually  from  the  water  itself  but  from  the 
change,  treatment  and  quantity  of  water  taken.  Much  bene- 
fit can  be  derived  by  following  the  same  treatment  at  home. 

Temperature  of  Drinking  Water.  Luke-warm  or  tepid 
water  (G5°  to  92°  F.)  which  in  theory  should  be  most  suited 
for  drinking  is  insipid  and  even  repugnant  to  most  people. 
Hence  as  a  beverage  water  is  either  taken  warm  (92°  to  100° 
P.),  hot  (100°  F.  and  over),  cool  (65°  to  92°  F.)  or  cold  (32° 
to  65°  F.).  The  taking  of  hot  water  in  large  quantities  has 
been  found  of  benefit  for  weak  digestions  and  in  much  chronic 
invalidism.  It  acts  as  a  stimulant  to  gastric  digestion;  re- 
lieves thirst  more  quickly  than  cold  water ;  is  more  quickly  ab- 
sorbed, and  leaves  the  stomach  sooner.  Cool  water  is  the  nor- 
mal beverage  for  quenching  thirst.  Ice  water  is  unsuitable 
for  all  individuals  when  overheated,  and  with  meals  for  dys- 
peptics and  those  in  delicate  health.  Fever  patients,  however, 
may  take  it  ad  libitum ;  for  most  robust  individuals  who  crave 
it  with  or  without  meals  it  seems  to  do  no  great  harm,  if  taken 
slowly  and  in  moderation.  Its  coldness  acts  as  a  natural 
check  against  overindulgence.  It  probably  slows  the  move- 
ments of  the  stomach  and  as  long  as  the  stomach  is  chilled 
the  action  of  the  pepsin  is  curtailed  since  this  acts  best  near 


MINERAL  MATTER  29 

blood  temperature,  but  the  arrest  is  only  temporary.     A  small 
quantity  of  crushed  ice  is  known  to  relieve  nausea. 

MINERAL  MATTER 

Function.  The  mineral  matter  in  the  body  serves  the 
most  varied  ends.  It  gives  solidity  to  the  bones  and  teeth; 
its  presence  in  body  fluids,  such  as  blood  and  lymph,  im- 
parts to  them  a  certain  degree  of  concentration  which  is  abso- 
lutely necessary  to  the  vital  processes.  Again,  minute  quan- 
tities of  mineral  matter  are  invariably  present  in  living  cells 
and  are  indispensable  to  their  existence.  The  kind  of  min- 
eral matter  in  a  given  tissue  or  organ  varies  according  to  its 
function.  The  bones  and  teeth  owe  their  stability  to  salts 
of  calcium  (lime)  and  magnesium,  especially  the  phosphates. 
The  salts  which  are  necessary  for  the  regulation  of  the  body 
fluids  comprise  potassium,  sodium,  calcium  and  magnesium, 
especially  in  the  form  of  chlorides.  The  substances  essential 
to  the  active  cells  as  part  of  their  normal  structure  comprise 
phosphorus,  iron,  and  sulphur,  in  the  form  of  organic  com- 
pounds, along  with  other  salts  in  small  quantities.  Phos- 
phorus is  found  in  the  nuclei  of  all  cells  and  is  essential  for 
growth.  The  red  corpuscles  are  rich  in  iron,  and  the  thyroid 
gland  cells  contain  considerable  iodin.  Nearly  all  cells  have 
traces  01  sulphur,  mainly  in  the  form  of  protein. 

Amount  and  Kind  of  Mineral  Matter  in  the  Organism. 
The  mineral  matter  in  the  body  amounts  to  about  5  or  6 
per  cent,  by  weight,  occurring  chiefly  in  the  bones.  The  ele- 
ments needed  in  the  body  can  all  be  found  in  food. 

The  chemical  elements  found  in  the  body  comprise  hydro- 
«  ii,  oxygen,  nitrogen,  carbon,  phosphorus,  sulphur,  silicon, 
fluorin,  chlorin,  iodin,  all  of  the  non-metal  type ;  while  of  the 
metals  are  present  sodium,  potassium,  calcium,  magnesium, 
iron.  Traces  of  manganese,  aluminium,  possibly  also  arsenic, 
are  sometimes  found.  Any  substance  which  exists  in  the  soil 
may  find  its  way  into  the  body. 


30  PRACTICAL  DIETETICS 

There  is  more  calcium  (lime)  in  the  body  than  any  other 
of  the  metals,  while  phosphorus  exists  to  a  greater  extent 
than  any  other  non-metallic  element,  exclusive  of  those  which 
go  to  form  living  matter.  These  elements  predominate  thus 
because  the  bones  contain  so  large  an  amount  of  phosphate 
of  lime.  Lime  is  also  present  to  a  considerable  extent  as  car- 
bonate. Magnesium  phosphate  comes  next  in  amount.  With 
the  exception  of  these  three  bone  compounds,  mineral  matter 
is  present  in  relatively  small  quantities. 

The  sodium  and  chlorin  occur  chiefly  in  the  form  of  sodium 
chlorid,  which  is  present  in  all  the  fluids  and  solids.  The 
chlorin  of  hydrochloric  acid  of  the  gastric  juice  comes  from 
the  sodium  chlorid.  Some  sodium  is  also  present  as  car- 
bonate and  phosphate,  and  these  two  are  found  in  sufficient 
amount  to  give  the  blood  and  numerous  fluids  and  secretions 
a  neutral  reaction.  Potassium  occurs  mainly  in  the  form 
of  potassium  phosphate.     Muscle-tissue  is  rich  in  this  salt. 

The  sulphur  and  phosphorus  which  enter  the  body  in  the 
form  of  protein  in  animal  food  are  oxidized  to  sulphuric 
and  phosphoric  acids  and  these  at  once  combine  with  bases 
to  form  sulphates  and  phosphates  of  lime,  sodium,  etc. 
Sulphates  occur  to  a  slight  extent  only,  while  as  already  stated 
phosphates  are  the  most  important  constituents  numerically. 

Source  of  Mineral  Matter  in  the  Food.  The  mineral  mat- 
ter received  into  the  body  comes  either  from  the  solid  food 
or  dietetic  fluids.  With  the  exception  of  sodium  chlorid 
(common  salt)  it  is  not  usually  added  to  the  diet.  Such  ad- 
ditions, however,  are  often  prescribed  as  medicine  in  states 
of  ill  health.  Thus  phosphates  and  hypophosphites  of  lime, 
sodium  and  potassium  are  used  largely  in  rickets  and  scrofula. 
Iron  is  given  for  impoverished  blood.  It  is  better  to  give 
them  in  the  form  of  food  as  far  as  possible,  and  care  should 
be  taken  to  see  that  the  food  is  rich  in  the  mineral  elements 
needed  even  if  they  are  at  the  same  time  being  given  in  in- 
organic form,  for  the  body  can  use  food  salts  in  many  in- 
stances to  much  greater  advantage. 

Animal   food   in  general  contains  the  same  mineral  con- 


MINERAL  MATTER  31 

stituents    that    are    found   in   corresponding   human    tissues. 

Cow's  milk  is  rich  in  calcium  and  phosphorus  in  organic 
forms,  and  contains  small  amounts  of  sodium,  potassium, 
magnesium,  iron  and  chlorin. 

Eggs  contain  iron  and  phosphorus  in  their  most  assimilable 
forms,  especially  in  the  yolks. 

Meats  are  lacking  in  calcium,  and  while  red  meats  are 
comparatively  rich  in  iron,  it  is  not  in  as  available  form  as 
in  eggs. 

Since  the  animals  used  by  us  as  food  obtain  their  mineral 
matter  from  plants,  the  richest  and  most  varied  supply  is  com- 
monly found  in  the  vegetable  kingdom.  Calcium  is  abundant, 
especially  in  such  vegetables  as  beans  and  peas,  fresh  or  dried, 
in  other  green  vegetables,  in  fruits  and  the  outer  parts  of 
grains.     There  is  little  in  polished  rice  or  fine  flour. 

Vegetable  foods  are  rich  in  potassium,  which  usually  oc- 
curs in  the  form  of  potassium  phosphates.  Spinach  is  richer 
in  iron  than  almost  any  other  plant  food;  whole  wheat,  oat- 
meal, peas  and  beans,  raisins  and  prunes  are  also  valuable 
sources  of  organic  iron. 

Vegetable  Acids  and  their  Salts.  Some  authorities  con- 
sider these  substances  under  the  head  of  mineral  matter, 
although  they  have  an  organic  origin  and  do  not  pre-exist 
in  the  soil.  They  comprise  the  acids  of  juicy  fruits  such  as 
the  citric  acid  of  the  citrus  group,  the  malic  acid  of  apples, 
pears,  etc.,  and  the  tartaric  acid  of  grapes.  They  exist  partly 
in  a  state  of  combination  with  sodium  and  potassium.  From 
a  dietetic  standpoint  they  may  be  placed  in  the  same  category 
as  the  carbonic  acid  gas  and  alkaline  carbonates  of  the  diet, 
because  in  the  body  they  quickly  become  changed  to  car- 
bonates, and  assist  in  the  maintenance  of  the  proper  reaction 
of  the  blood.  Various  diseases  are  believed  to  be  due  to  an 
38  of  acid  in  the  body,  or  what  is  the  same  thing,  to  a 
diminution  of  alkali.  There  is  no  doubt  that  acid  fruits 
and  vegetables  are  valuable  in  counteracting  such  a  condi- 
tion. 

Importance   of  a   Proper  Supply   of  Mineral  Matter.     It 


32  PRACTICAL  DIETETICS 

was  formerly  thought  that  since  mineral  matter  is  universally 
present  in  food  and  drink,  an  individual  need  pay  little  at- 
tention to  this  phase  of  the  feeding  problem.  Before  the 
paths  of  elimination  of  ash  constituents  had  been  studied  with 
any  care,  it  was  assumed  that  many  such  compounds  were 
excreted  in  the  feces  without  having  ever  been  absorbed. 
Since  more  light  has  been  thrown  on  the  fact  that  the  in- 
testines form  the  regular  path  of  excretion  of  certain  mineral 
matter,  and  on  the  chemical  nature  of  the  regulation  of  body 
processes,  there  has  been  greater  realization  of  the  fact  that 
unless  a  diet  is  chosen  from  a  wide  range  of  food  materials, 
these  is  danger  of  some  of  these  constituents  being  supplied  in 
too  small  quantities  or  not  at  all.  This  is  especially  true  in 
the  case  of  artificially-fed  infants  and  of  growing  children, 
whose  demand  for  building  material  is  large,  but  it  is  not 
negligible  even  in  adults,  especially  for  the  proper  control 
of  the  body  processes.  If  care  is  taken  to  provide  iron, 
phosphorus  and  calcium  in  organic  forms,  there  is  little  dan- 
ger of  inadequate  supply  of  the  .inorganic  salts,  since  these 
are  present  in  the  milk,  eggs,  green  vegetables  and  fruits 
which  best  supply  the  elements  mentioned  above. 

Use  of  Mineral  Matter  in  Disease.  Continued  depriva- 
tion of  sodium  chlorid  (common  salt)  will  finally  lead  to 
lowered  secretion  of  hydrochloric  acid  in  the  gastric  juice, 
but  there  are  certain  diseased  conditions  in  which  withhold- 
ing of  salt  is  beneficial.  Salt  tends  to  hold  water  in  the 
body,  and  where  the  heart  is  weak,  and  it  is  desirable  to 
lessen  the  volume  of  blood  to  be  pumped,  a  salt-free  diet  may 
be  desirable.  In  some  forms  of  edema  and  in  Bright's  dis- 
ease the  practice  is  also  followed.  Epileptics  who  depend 
upon  bromides  to  prevent  their  fits  can  do  with  much  less  of 
these1  substances  if  their  salt  is  cut  down,  because  bromin  up 
to  a  certain  extent  displaces  the  chlorin  in  such  compounds  as 
sodium  chlorid,  and  fails  to  fulfill  its  purpose  in  such  a  case. 

It  is  common  to  find  statements  that  certain  serious  dis- 
orders like  calculus  disease,  rickets,  scurvy,  tuberculosis,  etc., 
arc  due  primarily  to  too  much  or  too  little  of  some  mineral: 


FOOL  ACCESSORIES  OR  ADJUNCTS  33 

hut.  as  already  stated,  the  real  causes  must  lie  deeper,  al- 
though the  possibility  of  such  factors  must  never  be  under- 
rated. Scurvy  was  once  held  to  be  due  to  too  much  salt, 
ased  as  preservatives;  later  it  was  regarded  as  due  less  to 
38  of  Borne  salts  than  ahsence  of  others,  as  potassium. 
To-day  we  believe  it  is  due  to  something  provided  by  fresh 
food,  but  destroyed  sometimes  by  drying  and  sometimes  by 
cooking.  With  a  more  liberal  dietary,  including  fresh  vege- 
tahles  and  fruits,  it  disappears. 

Beriberi,  a  disease  produced  by  a  dietary  composed  largely 
of  polished  rice,  has  been  shown  to  be  due  to  the  absence  of 
minute  quantities  of  a  complex  organic  compound  present  in 
the  rice  bran.  Addition  of  this  to  a  polished  rice  diet  will 
effect  a  cure.  Students  of  nutrition  are  looking  for  other 
substances  of  this  class,  in  other  foods.  It  has  been  shown 
that  butter  fat  contains  something  necessary  to  the  growth  of 
young  animals  (white  rats)  which  is  found  also  in  cod  liver 
oil,  hut  not  in  lard.  The  term  vitamine  is  proposed  for  these 
as  yet  little  known  but  evidently  important  substances. 

Children  with  rickets  often  improve  on  preparations  con- 
taining lime  and  sodium,  as  also  do  scrofulous  children,  but 
it  Lb  difficult  to  show  that  in  such  cases  the  remedies  act  by 
supplying  any  one  kind  of  mineral  food.  The  safe  way 
is  to  supply  foods  containing  all,  unless  one  has  positive 
knowledge  of  the  value  of  some  specific  element. 

FOOD  ACCESSORIES  OR  ADJUNCTS 

CONDIMENTS  —  BEVERAGES 
CONDIMENTS 
Condiments  are  substances  not  necessarily  possessing  nutri- 
tive value,  which  are  used  to  give  sapidity  to  tasteless  or  un- 
appetizing dishes.  To  what  extent  they  have  any  specific 
action  on  the  functions  of  the  body  u  not  clear.  They  tend 
to  increase  the  fl<  iliva  and  gastric  juice  and  thus  in 

theory  favor  the  digestion   of  starch. 

'  The  number  of  condiments,  if  we  include 


34  PRACTICAL  DIETETICS 

appetizing  substances  of  all  kinds,  is  very  large.  In  some 
countries  olives,  a  bit  of  dried  herring,  in  fact,  anything  pos- 
sessing pungency,  may  be  served  before  a  regular  meal. 

Sauces  perhaps  represent  the  largest  class  of  condiments 
and  the  great  number  and  variety  of  their  ingredients  give 
us  some  idea  of  the  number  of  individual  condiments.  They 
are  added  to  food  while  eating. 

Spices  (ginger,  cinnamon,  nutmeg  and  cloves)  are  used 
only  in  cooking.  In  this  same  category  may  be  placed  flavor- 
ing extracts. 

Mustard  is  used  both  in  preparing  food  and  as  an  accessory 
while  eating.  Horseradish  belongs  in  the  same  class.  The 
flavor  of  these  depends  on  a  volatile  oil  peculiar  to  each  sub- 
stance. Such  oils  have  no  value  as  foods.  Pepper,  salt  and 
vinegar  form  the  most  indispensable  of  table  condiments. 
Of  these,  salt  is,  strictly  speaking,  a  food.  When,  however,  it 
is  used  in  excess  of  body  needs,  simply  to  modify  the  flavor 
of  food,  it  is  properly  classed  as  a  condiment. 

Condiments  are  taken  for  their  mild  stimulating  effects  on 
the  tissues  with  which  they  come  in  contact.  They  are  not 
required  by  a  normal  appetite,  but  are  frequently  used  to 
obscure  the  flavor  of  poorly  prepared  food.  Just  as  bread  can 
be  made  of  so  delicate  a  flavor  that  it  can  be  eaten  without 
butter,  most  other  foods  can  be  so  treated  as  to  have  a  suffi- 
cient sapidity.  In  the  Northern  States,  tomatoes  and  melons 
are  eaten  with  various  accessories;  in  some  parts  of  the  South 
'  such  fruits  have  so  delicious  a  flavor  that  they  are  eaten  plain. 
To  add  a  cheap  table  sauce  to  a  costly  steak  seems  a  gas- 
tronomic sin  and  certainly  has  no  physiological  justification. 

In  short,  the  taste  for  condiments  is  largely  an  artificial 
one,  and  their  use  should  be  limited.  A  well-trained  palate 
tires  of  these  high  seasonings  more  quickly  than  of  the  mild 
characteristic  flavors  of  food  perfect  in  its  natural  state  or 
so  cooked  as  to  develop  its  inherent  taste.  The  moderate  use 
of  condiments  occasionally,  for  the  sake  of  variety,  or  when 
the  appetite  is  feeble,  may  be  legitimate.  They  should  be 
withheld  (with  the  exception  of  salt),  from  the  food  of  chil- 


FOOD  ACCESSORIES  OR  ADJUNCTS  35 

dren,  botli  because  they  destroy  the  appetite  for  milder  foods, 
and  because  they  are  irritating  to  the  mucous  membrane  of 
the  alimentary  canal.  Because  of  their  irritant  properties 
they  should  also  be  given  with  caution  to  invalids,  especially 
a    Buffering  from  any  inflammation  of  the  digestive  tract. 

BEVERAGES 

These  food  accessories  comprise  milk,  coffee,  tea,  cocoa 
and  chocolate,  alcoholic  drinks,  lemonade  and  other  acid 
drinks,  aerated  and  carbonated  drinks.  Milk  is  a  food 
rather  than  a  beverage,  becoming  a  solid  instead  of  a  liquid 
food  in  the  stomach.  It  is  the  only  product  in  nature  pro- 
vided solely  for  food.  It  contains  not  only  protein,  fat,  and 
carbohydrates  in  good  proportions,  but  also  a  rich  supply  of 
mineral  salts  in  an  available  form.  Growing  children  should 
have  at  least  a  quart  of  milk  every  day.  Cocoa  and  chocolate 
are  also  valuable  for  their  content  of  protein,  fat,  and  car- 
bohydrate, and  drinks  from  fruit  juices  contain  mineral  salts, 
organic  acids  (which  help  to  maintain  the  neutrality  of  the 
blood),  and  some  carbohydrate.  In  other  cases,  the  value  of 
beverages  does  not  lie  in  their  nutritive  content. 

Stimulation.  Coffee,  tea,  chocolate  and  cocoa  contain  a 
stimulating  alkaloid  which  produces  mild  exhilaration  without 
reaction.  Alcoholic  drinks  while  they  tend  to  produce  nar- 
cotic effects  when  taken  in  excess,  act  as  stimulants  and  ap- 
petizers in  small  quantiti 

Thirst  Quenching.  Substances  like  lemonade,  ginger  ale, 
and  aerated  drinks  in  general  use  are  used  for  this  purpose. 

S     i'/ity.     Coffee   and   r  ners  are  used  largely  for 

their  delicate  flavor,  and  this  may  be  said  to  a  certain  di 
of  all  beverages.     Drinks  especially  designed  for  the  invalid 
and  the  sick  will  be  considered  under  other  heads. 


CHAPTER  II 
NUTRITION 

DIGESTION  —  ABSORPTION  —  METABOLISM 

Under  this  term  is  usually  understood  the  digestion  and 
absorption  of  nourishment,  its  assimilation  and  utilization, 
its  storage  in  excess,  and  finally  the  elimination  of  the 
products  of  wear  and  tear,  of  combustion,  and  of  nutriment 
or  waste  which  cannot  be  utilized.  Those  processes  of  nutri- 
tion which  occur  after  absorption  are  now  included  in  the 
term  metabolism.  To  restate  this  in  a  simple  form  (adapted 
from  Thompson),  nutrition  involves: 

1.  The  secretion  of  digestive  fluids,  and  their  action  upon 
food  in  the  alimentary  canal  —  in  other  words,  digestion. 

2.  The  passage  of  the  ingredients  of  the  digested  food  into 
the  blood  vessels  and  lymphathic  vessels  —  absorption. 

3.  The  utilization  of  the  absorbed  nutrition  products  by 
the  cells  —  assimilation  or  upward  metabolism. 

4.  The  elimination  of  waste  material  —  disassimilation  or 
downward  metabolism. 

The  subjects  of  digestion  and  absorption  will  be  treated  in 
detail  for  each  food  principle,  and  then  summarized  at  the 
end  of  each  topic. 

DIGESTION 

DIGESTION   OF   PROTEINS 

Digestion  in  the  Stomach.  Protein  is  not  chemically  al- 
tered in  the  mouth.  The  process  of  chewing  simply  mois- 
tens and  divides  it  into  small  particles  so  that  it  is  easily 
swallowed  and  more  readily  attacked  by  the  secretion  of  the 
stomach.     Passing  down  the  oesophagus,  through  the  cardiac 

36 


DIGESTION  37 

sphincter  guarding  the  entrance  to  the  stomach,  it  enters  that 
portion  of  the  latter  organ  called  the  fundus.  Here  it  rests 
quietly  for  some  time,  so  that  it  is  not  immediately  mixed 
with  gastric  juice,  as  formerly  taught,  but  the  outer  portions 
of  the  mass  are  successively  attacked  and  dissolved.  These 
soft  portions  are  then  pressed  into  the  intermediate  and 
pyloric  regions  of  the  stomach  and  subjected  to  a  thorough 
mixing. 

The  gastric  juice  is  an  acid  fluid  which  may  be  secreted  in 
large  quantities  —  as  much  as  one  or  two  gallons  in  24  hours. 
Its  acidity  is  due  to  the  presence  of  about  0.2  per  cent,  to  0.4 
per  cent,  of  hydrochloric  acid.  This  of  itself  is  capable;  of 
causing  protein  to  swell  and  to  some  extent  dissolve;  of 
hydrolvzing  the  collagen  of  connective  tissue;  of  decalcifying 
bone ;  and  of  preventing  bacterial  action. 

The  gastric  juice  contains  two  enzymes  which  act  on  pro- 
tein, pepsin  and  rennin.  Pepsin  can  act  only  in  the  presence 
of  a  definite  percentage  of  hydrochloric  acid,  while  rennin 
acts  in  a  neutral  solution.  The  relations  of  rennin  and  pep- 
sin are  not  yet  very  clearly  understood.  The  function  of 
rennin  is  to  curdle  milk,  which  causes  it  to  remain  in  the 
stomach  long  enough  to  be  digested  by  the  pepsin. 

Action  of  Pepsin.  The  protein  of  the  diet,  more  or  less 
swollen,  softened,  and  dissolved  by  the  action  of  hydrochloric 
acid,  is  changed  chemically  by  pepsin,  into  a  series  of  in- 
creasingly simpler  and  more  soluble  products,  namely,  acid 
proteins,  proteoses  (often  called  albumoses)  and  peptones. 
The  change  to  peptones  is  not  complete,  but  these  three 
products  of  peptic  digestion  tend  to  pass  together  into  the 
intestine,  when  the  pyloric  sphincter  which  guards  the  en- 
trance to  the  duodenum  opens  to  let  them  pass.  The  opening 
and  closing  of  this  sphincter  is  controlled  by  two  factors: 
1.  The  consistency  of  the  partly  digested  food,  solid  particles 
tending  to  keep  the  pylorus  closed.  2.  The  presence  of  free 
hydrochloric  acid  in  the  stomach  contents.  This  is  the  more 
important  factor. 

Protein  is  capable  of  absorbing  and  uniting  chemically  with 


38  PRACTICAL  DIETETICS 

a  certain  amount  of  acid.  When  it  is  so  saturated,  free  acid 
will  be  present,  having  now  nothing  with  which  to  combine, 
and  this  free  acid  is  the  stimulus  which  causes  the  pyloric 
sphincter  to  relax  and  lets  a  little  spurt  of  food  into  the 
duodenum.  Once  in  the  duodenum,  this  same  acid  acts  as 
the  stimulus  to  close  the  pylorus,  and  no  more  food  enters  the 
duodenum  until  the  first  portion  has  been  neutralized. 

A  clear  understanding  of  the  way  in  which  the  pyloric 
sphincter  is  regulated  throws  considerable  light  on  stomach 
digestion.  We  can  understand  why  a  certain  quantity  of  in- 
digestible residue,  such  as  is  present  in  most  of  our  staple 
foods  —  meats,  vegetables,  fruits,  etc. —  is  of  service  in  re- 
taining food  within  the  stomach  for  a  time,  giving  the 
hydrochloric  acid  a  chance  to  exercise  its  bactericidal  power, 
and  favoring  thorough  gastric  digestion.  It  also  explains 
why  a  meal  of  "  bolted  "  food  (or  of  food  imperfectly  masti- 
cated through  absence  of  teeth),  or  a  failure  of  free  hydro- 
chloric acid  in  the  stomach  contents,  as  in  hypoacidity  or 
achylia  gastrica,  may  set  up  such  a  continuous  state  of  pyloric 
contraction  that  the  stomach  remains  unemptied  for  a  long 
period,  with  a  good  prospect  of  fermentation  and  gas  pro- 
duction, of  relief  by  vomiting,  or  of  an  attack  of  acute  in- 
digestion, biliousness  or  diarrhoea.  The  nurse  will  under- 
stand why  a  diet  of  "  liquids "  for  a  person  in  relatively 
good  health  does  not  prove  satisfactory.  Liquids  do  not  stay 
long  enough  in  the  stomach  to  give  a  sense  of  fullness,  give 
the  stomach  little  to  do,  and  tend  to  pass  into  the  intestine 
poorly  prepared  for  the  action  of  the  digestive  juices  there. 

Digestion  in  the  Intestines.  On  entering  the  duodenum, 
the  acid  chyme  from  the  stomach  meets  three  secretions,  all 
alkaline  in  reaction,  namely,  the  pancreatic  juice,  the  bile, 
and  the  intestinal  juice. 

The  hydrochloric  acid  of  the  stomach  is  indirectly  respon- 
sible for  the  flow  of  the  pancreatic  juice,  for  this  begins  only 
after  acid  food  has  entered  the  duodenum.  The  pancreatic 
juice  contains  an  enzyme  capable  of  digesting  protein  only 
after  it  has  come  into  contact  with  the  intestinal  juice.     This 


DIGESTION 


39 


enzyme  is  then  called  trypsin,  and  the  changes  which  it  pro- 
duces in  protein  are  similar  to  those  produced  by  pepsin;  it 
acts,  however,  in  an  alkaline  medium. 

The  products  of  tryptic  digestion  are  therefore  alkali  pro- 
tein, proteoses  (albumoses)  and  peptones. 

The  bile  plays  no  significant  part  in  protein  digestion,  ex- 
cept as  it  helps  to  neutralize  the  chyme. 

The  intestinal  juice  contains  an  enzyme  called  erepsin, 
which  completes  the  digestion  of  protein,  breaking  down  the 
proteoses  and  peptones  formed  by  pepsin  and  trypsin  into 
still  less  complex  compounds  called  amino  acids.  These  are 
the  "  end-products "  of  protein  digestion.  The  digestive 
process  can  go  no  farther.  There  are  no  enzymes  acting  on 
proteins  in  the  large  intestines. 

Summary.  The  chemical  changes  in  protein  during  the 
process  of  digestion  are  shown  in  the  following  table : 


PART  OF 

ALIMENTARY 

TRACT 

NAME 

OF 

SECRETION 

ENZYMES 

ACTING  ON 

PROTEIN 

PRODUCTS  OF 
ENZYME  ACTION 

Mouth 

Saliva 

None 

None 

Stomach 

Gastric  Juice 

Rennin 

Pepsin    and    Hy- 
drochloric acid 

Coagulates  milk 

CAcid  Protein, 
i  Proteoses, 
[Peptones 

Small  Intestine 

Pancreatic  Juice 

Bile 

Intestinal  Juice 

Trypsin  (in  alka- 
line medium) 

None 

Erepsin      (acts 
only  on  proteo- 
ses    and     pep- 
tones) 

fAIkali  Protein, 
-j  Proteoses, 
[Peptones 

None 

Amino  Acids 

40  PRACTICAL  DIETETICS 

DIGESTION   OF  FAT 

Fat  is  not  acted  upon  by  the  secretions  of  the  mouth  nor 
to  any  great  extent  by  those  of  the  stomach.  The  gastric 
juice  contains  an  enzyme,  called  gastric  lipase,  which  has  the 
power  of  acting  on  emulsified  fats,  such  as  in  cream  or  yolk 
of  eggs.  It  plays  a  more  important  part  in  the  digestion  of 
infants  than  of  adults. 

The  presence  of  fat  in  the  stomach  retards  the  secretion  of 
gastric  juice.  Hence  a  certain  excess  of  fat  in  the  stomach 
is  sufficient  to  close  the  pylorus  for  a  longer  or  shorter  time, 
due  to  the  failure  of  the  appearance  of  free  hydrochloric  acid. 
This  doubtless  accounts  for  the  fact  that  fat  in  the  diet  often 
seems  to  retard  and  otherwise  disturb  digestion. 

Digestion  of  fat  takes  place  mainly  in  the  small  intestines. 
The  pancreatic  juice  contains  an  enzyme  called  steapsin,  which 
has  the  power  of  emulsifying  fats  and  also  of  splitting  them 
into  fatty  acids  and  glycerine. 

The  bile  contains  no  such  enzymes,  but  it  is  nevertheless  an 
important  factor  in  the  digestion  of  fat.  It  has  the  power  of 
increasing  greatly  the  activity  of  the  pancreatic  lipase  (steap- 
sin), and  of  holding  in  solution  the  fatty  acids  formed  by 
its  action,  so  that  they  are  more  perfectly  absorbed.  When 
bile  is  lacking,  much  of  the  fat  fails  of  absorption  and  is 
excreted  through  the  intestines.  Emulsification  is  an  im- 
portant aid  in  the  splitting  of  fat  into  fatty  acids  and  glycer- 
ine, the  forms  in  which  fat  is  chiefly  absorbed. 

DIGESTION   OF   CARBOHYDRATES 

1.  Digestion  of  Starch.  There  is  little  doubt  that  prim- 
itive man  accomplished  much  of  the  digestion  of  starch  in  the 
mouth.  The  saliva  contains  two  enzymes,  ptyalin,  and  mal- 
tase.  By  the  action  of  ptyalin  starch  is  changed  to  dextrins 
and  these  to  maltose;  by  the  action  of  maltase,  maltose  is 
converted  into  dextrose,  the  end-product  of  salivary  digestion. 
The  crude  uncooked  food  required  prolonged  mastication  be- 
fore it  could  be  swallowed,  and  during  this  mastication  the 
enzymes  had  opportunity  for  action.     Raw  starch  is  so  very 


DIGESTION  41 

slowly  affected  by  enzymes,  that  much  of  the  food  value  of  un- 
cooked cereals  is  lost,  so  that  the  practice  of  baking  ground 
grain  into  bread  developed  very  early.  This  fact  in  regard 
to  starch  digestion  is  often  disregarded  by  advocates  of  a  re- 
turn to  raw  foods. 

There  is  said  to  be  some  evidence  that  a  pharyngeal  reflex 
once  existed  which  prevented  the  bolting  of  foods  which  are 
capable  of  salivary  digestion,  or  which  are  not  easily  di- 
gestible without  mastication.  In  recent  years,  Mr.  Horace 
Fletcher  has  counseled  a  return  to  prolonged  mastication,  in 
order  that  salivary  digestion  may  be  carried  to  its  fullest  ex- 
tent. It  is  claimed  that  the  more  perfect  utilization  of  all 
food  eaten  necessitates  the  taking  of  a  smaller  amount. 
There  is  no  doubt  that  thorough  mastication  renders  the  di- 
gestion of  starch  easier  and  more  complete,  but  it  will  not 
greatly  alter  the  total  food  requirement. 

The  starchy  food  mixed  with  saliva  passes  from  the  mouth 
to  the  stomach  and  lodges  in  the  fundus,  the  portions  last 
eaten  always  going  to  the  center  of  the  mass.  Thus,  while 
the  gastric  juice  is  at  work  upon  the  outer  layer,  attacking 
the  protein  of  the  diet,  the  inner  portions  remain  alkaline  for 
i.  considerable  time,  so  that  salivary  digestion  may  continue 
undisturbed. 

From  time  to  time,  the  soluble  products  of  salivary  and 
gastric  digestion  pass  into  the  small  intestine.  Here  the  con- 
version of  starch  and  intermediate  products  into  simple  sugars 
is  completed.  The  pancreatic  juice  contains  an  enzyme  called 
amylopsin,  which  acts  like  ptvalin,  i.  e.,  changes  starch  to 
dextrins,  and  finally  to  maltose. 

The  intestinal  juice  contains  an  enzyme  capable  of  chang- 
ing maltose  to  dextrose,  the  final  product  in  starch  digestion. 

Summary.  The  chemical  changes  in  starch  during  the 
process  of  digestion  are  shown  in  the  following  table :   — 


42 


PRACTICAL  DIETETICS 


PAETOF 

ALIMENTARY 

TRACT 

OF 

NAME 
SECRETION 

ENZYMES 

ACTING  ON 

STARCH 

PRODUCTS  OF 
ENZYME 
ACTION 

Mouth 

Saliva 

Ptyalin 
Maltase 

fDextrins 
(^Maltose 

Dextrose 

Stomach 

Gastric  Juice 

None 

Small  Intestine 

Pancreatic  Juice 
Intestinal  Juice 

Amylopsin 
Maltase 

fDextrins 
"^Maltose 

Dextrose 

2.  Digestion  of  Sugars.  Although  sugars  are  perfectly 
soluble  and  easily  absorbed,  they  must  all  be  converted  into 
monosaccharides  or  simple  sugars  (chiefly  dextrose),  before 
they  can  be  utilized  by  the  body.  Hence  we  find  a  number 
of  enzymes  in  the  alimentary  tract  acting  upon  disaccharides. 
Two  of  these  have  already  been  indicated  in  discussing  the 
digestion  of  starch,  i.  e.,  the  maltases  of  the  saliva  and  in- 
testinal juice,  which  convert  each  molecule  of  maltose  into 
two  of  dextrose.  In  the  stomach,  a  slight  hydrolysis  of  the 
disaccharides  may  occur  through  the  influence  of  the  hydro- 
chloric acid.  In  the  intestines,  provision  is  made  for  their 
complete  transformation.  Both  the  pancreatic  and  intestinal 
juices  contain  enzymes  of  this  type.  In  young  animals,  or 
older  individuals  on  a  milk  diet,  the  pancreatic  juice  con- 
tains lactase,  which  converts  lactose  (milk  sugar)  into  dex- 
trose and  galactose.  The  intestinal  juice  contains  three  such 
enzymes,  sucrose,  acting  on  sucrose  (cane  sugar)  ;  lactase, 
acting  on  lactose ;  and  maltase,  acting  on  maltose. 

Summary.  The  chemical  changes  in  sugar  during  the 
process  of  digestion  are  shown  in  the  following  table: 


DIGESTION 


43 


PART  OF 

NAME 

ENZYMES 

PRODUCTS 

ALIMENTARY 

OF 

ACTING  ON 

OF  ENZYME 

TRACT 

SECRET  10  N 

SUGARS 

ACTION 

Mouth 

Saliva 

Maltase 

Dextrose 

Small  Intestines 

Pancreatic  Juice 

Lactase       (at 

JDextrose 

times ) 

^Galactose 

Intestinal  Juice 

Lactase 

JDextrose 
^Galactose 

Maltase 

Dextrose 

Sucrase 

rDextrose 
^Levulose 

Mineral  Matter  and  Water  require  no  changes  to  prepare 
them  for  absorption. 

resume"  of  digestion 

The  processes  of  digestion  are  both  mechanical  and  chem- 
ical. By  mechanical  processes  the  foods  are  first  softened 
and  finely  divided,  so  as  to  be  non-irritating  to  the  walls  of 
the  alimentary  tract,  and  to  expose  as  much  surface  as  pos- 
sible to  the  action  of  the  digestive  enzymes;  secondly,  they 
are  moved  along  the  alimentary  tract  from  time  to  time,  to 
facilitate  digestion  and  absorption,  and  to  expel  indigestible 
residues.  The  movements  of  the  mouth  in  mastication,  of 
the  oesophagus  in  swallowing,  and  of  the  intermediate  and 
pyloric  regions  of  the  stomach  in  mixing  the  food  with  the 
gastric  juice;  the  rhythmic  and  peristaltic  movements  of  the 
small  intestines,  by  which  the  food  is  alternately  churned  in 
a  stationary  position  and  then  pushed  along  to  a  new  region 
to  repeat  the  process;  and  finally,  the  anti-peristaltic  move- 
ments of  the  first  part  of  the  large  intestines  and  the  slow 
peristalsis  throughout  its  entire  length,  form  a  series  of  events 
of  tremendous  importance  to  the  welfare  of  the  organism. 

By  chemical  processes,  complex  food-stuffs  are  converted 
into  simpler  substances  out  of  which  the  body  can  build  the 


44 


PRACTICAL  DIETETICS 


compounds  essential  to  its  persistence  and  activity.  The  di- 
gestive fluids  and  the  enzymes  contained  therein,  with  the 
results  of  their  activity,  are  most  readily  indicated  by  the 
following  table: 


PART  OF 

ALIMENTARY 

TRACT 

NAME     OF 
SECRETION 

REACTION 

TO 

LITMUS 

ENZYMES 
PRESENT 

FOODSTUFFS 
ACTED   UPON 

PRODUCTS  OF 
ENZYME 
ACTION 

Mouth 

Saliva 

Alkaline 

Ptyalin 
Maltase 

Starch 
Maltose 

f  Soluble 
J       Starch- 
j  Dextrins 
I  Maltose 
Dextrose 

Stomach 

Gastric 
Juice 

Acid 

(0.2%- 
0.4% 
H    CI.) 

Pepsin 

Rennin 
Lipase 

Proteins 

Protein 

(especially 

casein    of 

milk) 
Emulsified 

Fats 

f  Acid 
J       Protein 
|  Proteoses 
I  Peptones 

Coagulated 
Protein 

Fatty   acids 
and 
glycerine 

Small 

Intestines 

Pancreatic 
Juice 

Alkaline 

Trypsin 
Steapsin 

Amylopsin 

Lactase 
(in     young 
animals) 

Proteins 
Fats 

Starch 

Lactose 
(Milk 
Sugar) 

r  Alkali 
)        Protein 
j  Proteoses 
I  Peptones 
f  Emulsified 

Fat  — 
-I  Fatty 

acids  and 
l,      glycerine 
f  Soluble 
J        Starch  — 
|   Dextrins  — 
I  Maltose 
f  Dextrose 
■j       and 
I  Galactose 

Intestinal 
Juice 

Alkaline 

Erepsin 

Sucrase 

Maltase 
Lactuse 

Proteins    in 
the   form  of 
Proteoses 
and 
Peptones 

Sucrose 

Maltose 
Lactose 

Amino 
Acids 

Dextrose  and 
Levulose 

Dextrose 

Dextrose  ami 
Galactose 

The  bile  contains  no  important  enzymes,  but  greatly  facilitates  the  diges- 
tion of  fats.  The  intestinal  juice  contains  an  enzyme  which  makes  trypsin 
an  active  enzyme,  and  a  substance  which  helps  to  stimulate  the  flow  of 
pancreatic   juice. 


DIGESTIOX  45 

Inspection  of  the  table  on  page  44  shows  that  there  are  five 
so-called  digestive  juices,  viz.:  saliva,  gastric  juice,  pancreatic 
juice,  bile,  and  intestinal  juice.  All  are  produced  intermit- 
tently except  the  bile,  which  is  secreted  continuously  into  the 
pill-bladder  and  discharged  at  intervals  into  the  intestine. 
All  are  alkaline  except  the  gastric  juice.  All  contain  power- 
ful enzymes  except  the  bile.  Enzymes  which  digest  protein 
occur  in  the  gastric  juice  (pepsin),  the  pancreatic  juice  (tryp- 
sin), and  the  intestinal  juice  (erepsin).  Ferments  which 
transform  starch  to  sugar  occur  especially  in  the  saliva  and 
pancreatic  juices,  and  are  commonly  known  as  diastatic 
enzymes.  Ptyalin  is  an  old  name  for  salivary  diastase,  amy- 
lopsin  for  pancreatic  diastase. 

The  principal  fat-splitting  enzyme  occurs  in  the  pan- 
creatic juice,  and  is  known  as  pancreatic  lipase  or  steapsin. 
Xumerous  enzymes  of  minor  importance  occur  in  the  gastric, 
pancreatic,  and  intestinal  juices.  Bile  in  itself  is  able  to 
emulsify  fat  as  a  step  toward  digestion. 

FACTORS  DETERMINING  RATE  OF  DIGESTION 

"We  know  of  the  existence  of  many  factors  which  influence 
salivary  and  gastric  digestion,  but  much  less  about  intestinal 
digestion.  Among  these  are  the  nature  of  the  food,  cook- 
ery, appetite,  mastication,  palatability,  mental  state,  amount 
of  fluid  in  the  meal,  the  pyloric  reflexes,  etc.  The  nature  of 
the  individual  plays  a  powerful  role;  some  individuals  can 
subsist  almost  wholly  upon  one  or  a  few  articles,  while  others 
quickly  revolt  against  monotony  of  diet.  Idiosyncrasy  is 
another  important  factor;  for  example,  some  individuals  can- 
not eat  mutton,  however  disguised,  while  in  others  sugar  is 
so  strong  a  stimulant  to  peristalsis  that  it  sets  up  a  violent 
diarrhoea.  The  above  being  true  of  presumably  healthy  peo- 
ple, the  factors  which  may  influence  digestion  in  the  sick, 
invalid  and  convalescent  must  be  still  more  uncertain. 
Hence  tables  which  purport  to  give  the  relative  digestibility 
of  foods  must  be  studied  with  allowances.  We  can  study  this 
problem  in  test  tubes,  or  by  examining  the  v.  from  the 


46  PRACTICAL  DIETETICS 

stomach  after  definite  meals  or  in  fistula  patients,  but  the 
results  can  hardly  be  applied  forthwith  to  all  persons. 

The  direct  stimuli  to  the  secretion  of  saliva  are  the  sight, 
odor  or  taste  of  food;  or  the  mechanical  irritation  produced 
by  contact  of  food-stuffs  with  the  mouth.  Indirectly,  the 
thought  of  food  may  be  a  psychic  stimulus  to  the  flow  of 
saliva.  Excitement  may  so  check  the  flow  of  saliva  that  it 
is  impossible  to  swallow  dry  food. 

The  stimuli  to  the  secretion  of  gastric  juice  are  both  psychic 
and  chemical.  Pawlow  has  demonstrated,  in  the  case  of 
dogs,  that  the  sight  of  food  or  the  chewing  of  food  in  the 
mouth  may  produce  a  very  effective  flow  of  gastric  juice,  to 
which  he  attributes  great  importance  in  digestion.  How  im- 
portant this  preliminary  flow  before  food  enters  the  stomach 
may  be  in  the  case  of  man  has  not  been  very  clearly  demon- 
strated, but  it  seems  reasonable  that  the  desire  for  eating,  the 
act  of  eating  and  the  pleasure  obtained  therefrom  exercise 
a  favorable  influence  upon  gastric  secretion.  It  has  recently 
been  shown  that  the  products  of  salivary  digestion  act  as 
a  stimulus  to  the  flow  of  gastric  juice,  and  that  once  the 
process  of  gastric  digestion  is  initiated,  the  products  of  pep- 
tic activity  cause  the  continuance  of  the  secretion  as  long 
as  the  food  remains  in  the  stomach.  The  mere  mechanical 
irritation  caused  by  the  presence  of  food  in  the  stomach  is 
ineffective.  Thus  white  of  egg  will  cause  no  flow.  But  cer- 
tain substances,  such  as  meat  extracts,  bitters  and  condiments, 
promote  secretion.  The  use  of  meat  broths,  gelatin  jellies, 
peptones  (i.  e.,  products  of  gastric  digestion),  and  toast  (con- 
taining dextrins  or  products  of  salivary  digestion),  at  the 
beginning  of  a  meal,  or  to  promote  feeble  gastric  digestion  in 
an  invalid,  is  therefore  a  rational  practice. 

ABSORPTION 

While  absorption  through  a  permeable  animal  membrane 
outside  the  body  may  be  a  simple  physical  process,  following 
the  ordinary  laws  of  pressure,  diffusion,  osmosis,  etc.,  the  case 


ABSORPTION  47 

is  far  otherwise  in  the  alimentary  tract,  where  the  selective 
activity  of  the  living  cell  becomes  a  positive  factor.  The 
pressure  in  secreting  glands  rises  above  blood  pressure;  sub- 
stances pass  inward  to  the  body  through  the  mucous  mem- 
brane without  a  corresponding  movement  in  the  opposite  di- 
rection. Thus  blood  serum,  placed  in  a  loop  of  intestine  is 
promptly  absorbed,  but  if  the  loop  be  surrounded  with  serum, 
it  does  not  pass  in  a  similar  manner  into  the  lumen  of  the 
section  of  intestine. 

The  stomach  is  not  primarily  an  absorbing  organ,  but  a  few 
substances,  such  as  sugars  and  peptones,  pass  to  a  limited 
extent  through  its  walls.  The  most  important  seat  of  absorp- 
tion is  the  small  intestine,  and  second,  the  large  intestine. 
Absorption  in  the  small  intestine  is  affected  through  the  in- 
numerable little  projections  with  which  the  intestine  is  lined, 
known  as  villi,  which  greatly  extend  the  amount  of  surface. 
These  villi  contain  a  capillary  network  and  a  so-called  lac- 
teal space.  The  capillaries  by  converging  into  larger  vessels 
eventually  form  the  portal  vein  which  passes  through  the 
liver.  The  lacteal  spaces  are  prolonged  into  lymphatic  ves- 
sels which  similarly  converge  to  form  the  thoracic  duct.  The 
lacteals  are  intended  almost  wholly  for  the  absorption  of  the 
fats,  all  other  digestive  products  passing  through  the  liver 
before  reaching  the  general  circulation. 

Absorption  continues  throughout  the  length  of  the  large 
inte-tine,  being  especially  favored  by  antiperistalsis  in  the 
upper  portions.  Constipation  sometimes  results  from  the 
great  absorptive  power  of  this  region,  the  feces  being  left  dry 
and  hard  and  hence  difficult  to  evacuate. 

Absorption  of  Protein.  It  was  long  a  matter  of  doubt  as 
to  the  form  in  which  proteins  were  absorbed,  but  there  was  a 
strong  inclination  to  believe  that  they  were  transformed  into 
protein  before  being  transported  by  the  blood,  because  it 
was  almost  impossible  to  detect  amino  acids  in  the  blood  or 
tissues.  We  now  know  that  this  was  due  to  the  imperfection 
of  our  chemical  methods.  It  has  recently  been  demonstrated 
by  several  independent  investigators  that  amino  acid-  are 
absorbed  from  the  intestines,  circulate  in  the  blood,  and  pass 


48  PRACTICAL  DIETETICS 

to  the  tissues,  and  that  the  cells  of  the  body  are  able  to  take 
them  up  and  use  them  according  to  their  needs.  Animals 
have  been  made  to  store  protein  when  the  only  nitrogen 
supplied  to  the  blood  was  in  the  form  of  amino  acids'. 

Traces  of  protein,  proteoses  or  peptones,  may  be  absorbed 
from  the  stomach  or  intestines,  but  ordinarily  the  amount  is 
negligible.  Such  products  when  present  in  the  blood  tend 
to  pass  quickly  into  the  urine.  The  peculiar  idiosyncrasy  of 
poisoning  from  such  foods  as  eggs,  milk,  fish,  etc.,  is  thought 
to  be  due  to  the  influence  of  traces  of  absorbed  proteins  to 
which  the  subject  shows  an  anaphylactic  reaction. 

Absorption  of  Fat.  It  is  now  commonly  believed  that  fat 
is  absorbed  in  the  form  of  the  end  products  of  its  digestion, 
i.  e.,  fatty  acids  and  glycerine,  and  that  somewhere  in  the 
intestinal  wall  these  are  recombined  into  neutral  fat.  It  is 
possible  that  some  of  the  finely  emulsified  fat  is  able  to  pass 
unchanged  through  the  intestinal  wall.  In  either  case,  mi- 
nute fat  droplets  pass  into  the  lacteals,  and  finally  into  the 
blood  stream  by  way  of  the  thoracic  duct.  A  small  portion 
finds  its  way  directly  into  the  blood. 

Fats  having  a  low  melting  point  are  absorbed  more  quickly 
than  solid  fats,  and  pure  fat  more  readily  than  fat  inter- 
mingled with  other  food  principles,  as  in  fat  meat. 

Absorption  of  Carbohydrates.  The  end  products  of  carbo- 
hydrate digestion  pass  to  the  blood  by  way  of  the  portal  sys- 
tem. The  monosaccharides  on  reaching  the  liver  enter  the 
general  circulation  as  dextrose  if  required  for  immediate  use ; 
otherwise  they  are  stored  in  the  liver  in  the  form  of  glycogen, 
which  can  be  again  transformed  into  sugar  when  demanded 
by  the  system  to  furnish  energy.  Sugars  are  so  readily  ab- 
sorbed  that  if  taken  in  large  quantities  the  body  may  be  un- 
able to  utilize  them,  and  the  excess  is  excreted  in  the  urine. 
This  is  especially  true  in  case  of  an  excess  of  cane  sugar  or 
milk  sugar.  They  may  be  absorbed  before  digestion,  and 
there  are  no  enzymes  in  the  blood  capable  of  converting  them 
into  dextrose  so  that  they  can  be  burned  or  stored.  Under 
such  circumstances  they  arc  useless  and  must  be  gotten  rid  of. 
If  maltose  is  absorbed  too  rapidly,  it  may  still  be  changed  to 


ABSORPTION  49 

dextrose  by  enzymes  in  the  blood  or  tissues,  and  so  be  utilized. 
sorption  of  Mineral  Matter.  As  salts  are  not  digested 
in  the  ordinary  sense  of  the  word,  they  require  nothing  more 
than  solution  in  the  digestive  fluids  before  absorption.  The 
mineral  matter  is  set  free  from  food  and  diffuses  more  or  less 
rapidly  into  the  surrounding  fluids.  Common  salt  is  most 
quickly  absorbed.  The  chief  locality  for  absorption  is  the 
small  intestines.  The  older  text  books  taught  that  salts 
were  absorbed  only  by  diffusion  through  the  intestinal  wall, 
which  required  that  another  solution  must  at  the  same  time 
from  the  blood  to  the  intestines  until  both  fluids  were 
of  the.  same  degree  of  concentration.  It  appears,  however, 
that  in  the  main,  mineral  matter  is  taken  up  in  the  intestinal 
wall  without  diffusion,  and  as  fast  as  it  can  be  incorporated 
with  certain  peculiar  solvents  is  absorbed  into  the  blood. 

Absorption  of  Water.  Water  it  not  absorbed  by  the  stom- 
ach, but  passes  quickly  in  little  spurts  (if  taken  alone)  into 
the  intestines.  Here  it  is  very  rapidly  absorbed;  it  may  be 
excreted  through  the  kidneys  within  twenty  minutes  after 
ingestion.  The  rapidity  of  absorption  may  be  considerably 
influenced  by  mineral  matter  dissolved  in  the  water. 

Summary.  Absorption  is  an  active,  not  a  passive  process. 
It  takes  place  mainly  in  the  intestines,  the  larger  part  before 
the  food  reaches  the  ileo-cecal  valve. 

Proteins  are  absorbed  by  the  villi,  chiefly  in  the  form  of 
amino  acids  and  pass  through  the  portal  vein  to  the  liver. 

Fats  are  absorbed  by  the  lacteals,  chiefly  in  the  form  of 
fatty  acids  and  glycerine,  but  pass  to  the  lymphatics  as  neu- 
tral fat,  and  enter  the  blood  stream  from  the  thoracic  duct. 

bohydrates  are  absorbed  by  the  villi  in  the  form  of  bu- 
gar  (chiefly  dextrose)  and  pass  through  the  portal  vein  to 
the  1; 

Tnabsorbed  material  passes  out  as  part  of  the  feces   (see 
lion,    page    53).     [Indigested    proteins,    fats   and    car- 
bohydrates are  liable  to  attack  by  putrefactive  and  fermenta- 
-  in  the  intestines.     The  products  of  such  bac- 
terial action  are  absorbed  to  a  considerable  extent.     Carbohy- 
digestion    torn!    to    produce   Lactic   and 


50  PRACTICAL  DIETETICS 

other  acids.  This  fermentation  is  not  altogether  an  ■  evil, 
for  it  checks  the  putrefaction  of  undigested  meat.  The  latter 
is  undesirable,  as  the  products  are  likely  to  prove  toxic.  It 
is  for  this  reason  that  lactic  acid,  especially  in  'he  form  of 
buttermilk  and  artificially  fermented  sour  milk,  is  largely 
employed  as  a  remedial  agent  in  intestinal  indigestion. 

METABOLISM 

Metabolism  is  the  sum  of  the  chemical  changes  taking  place 
in  the  cells  of  the  body  in  connection  with  all  biological 
processes,  including  growth,  repair  and  waste,  generation  and 
maintenance  of  heat,  all  manifestations  of  functional  activity, 
storage  of  surplus  nutriment,  etc.  It  comprises  two  phases, 
anabolism  and  katabolism. 

Anabolism  embraces  the  changes  involved  in  the  upbuilding 
of  the  cells,  and  corresponds  in  a  general  way  to  nutrition. 
Assimilation  is  the  selective  act  of  the  cells  in  appropriating 
the  special  form  of  nutriment  in  the  circulating  blood  which 
is  suited  for  their  needs.  The  special  phases  of  anabolism 
comprise  the  assimilation  of  nitrogen  for  growth  and  repair 
of  protoplasm,  the  storage  of  a  certain  amount  of  fat  and 
carbohydrate,  the  assimilation  of  oxygen  for  maintenance  of 
heat  and  functional  activity,  and  the  retention  of  inorganic 
salts  in  the  bones  and  other  tissues. 

Katabolism  comprises  the  changes  involved  in  the  contin- 
uous molecular  waste  of  the  cells;  in  the  constant  oxidation 
going  on  in  the  tissues  resulting  in  the  maintenance  of  animal 
heat;  in  the  exercise  of  muscular,  nervous  and  secretory  ac- 
tivity; and  perhaps  in  the  breaking  up  of  protein  into 
oxidizable  carbohydrates  and  nitrogenous  waste  products. 
We  speak  less  of  the  acts  of  katabolism  than  of  the  products 
of  katabolism,  which  are  a  measure  of  those  acts.  The  chief 
of  these  products  are :  ( 1 )  urea,  the  chief  form  of  excretion  of 
nitrogen,  and  (2)  carbon  dioxide  and  water,  which  represent 
the  products  of  energy-yielding  oxidations. 

Elimination  is  the  escape  or  expulsion  of  the  products  of 


METABOLISM  51 

katabolism  from  the  tissues  into  the  blood,  and  corresponds 
to  disassimilation  or  denutrition.  Excretion  is  the  final  ex- 
pulsion of  the  end  products  of  katabolism  from  the  excretory 
organs  and  includes  the  expulsion  of  unabscrbed  aliment  by 
the  bowel. 

In  the  case  of  certain  products  of  metabolism,  it  is  hardly 
possible  to  state  positively  whether  they  represent  anabolism 
or  katabolism.  Here  belong  especially  the  substances  formed 
in  connection  with  secretion,  as  the  digestive  enzymes,  the 
hydrochloric  acid  of  the  gastric  juice,  the  iodothyrin  of  the 
thyroid  gland  and  the  adrenalin  of  the  suprarenal  gland.  In 
all  likelihood  both  factors  participate,  for  certain  substances 
must  be  assimilated  from  the  food  to  form  these  bodies  which 
in  turn  are  set  free  in  the  blood.  It  is  also  true  that  some 
of  these  substances  act  by  their  mere  presence,  without  ap- 
parent waste  (catalytic  action). 

Metabolism,  of  Protein.  A  relatively  small  proportion  of 
protein  is  normally  disposed  of  by  oxidation  for  energy-forma- 
tion, when  carbohydrates  and  fats  enter  fully  into  the  diet. 
But  in  their  absence,  protein,  by  virtue  of  the  fact  that  it  con- 
tains the  elements  of  carbohydrates  and  fats  (carbon,  hydro- 
gen and  oxygen)  in  its  molecule,  can  furnish  all  the  heat  and 
force  required.  Certain  savages  subsist  wholly  on  meat  and 
remain  in  good  health,  and  in  the  so-called  Salisbury  treat- 
ment of  obesity,  etc.,  it  can  be  demonstrated  at  will  that  a 
patient  may  subsist  for  weeks  on  raw  beef  without  apparent 
detriment,  provided  plenty  of  water  is  drunk,  the  excess  of 
water  aiding  in  the  elimination  of  unutilized  nitrogen. 

When  absorbed  protein  reaches  the  liver,  a  large  part  of  the 
nitrogen  is  split  off  and  excreted  as  urea.  The  remaining 
portion  goes  to  make  good  the  small  daily  waste  of  body 
protein.  The  portion  of  the  protein  molecule  left  after  the 
nitrogen  is  split  off  is  available  as  fuel.  When  carbohydrates 
and  fats  are  liberally  supplied,  so  that  protein  is  not  required 
for  fuel,  the  daily  amount  needed  is  comparatively  small. 
Even  when  the  body  is  losing  nitrogen  rapidly,  as  in  certain 
fevers,  it  has  been  found  that  this  is  partly  because  the  body 


52  PRACTICAL  DIETETICS 

protein  is  being  used  as  fuel,  and  the  loss  can  be  largely 
prevented  by  furnishing  more  energy  in  the  form  of  carbo- 
hydrate or  fat.  Much  confusion  has  arisen  because  the  excess 
of  nitrogen  in  the  diet  is  to  some  extent  identical  in  form 
with  the  waste  products  of  cellular  activity.  Besides  urea, 
some  of  the  chief  nitrogenous  products  of  protein  metabolism 
are  ammonium  salts,  uric  acid,  creatin  and  creatinin. 

The  non-nitrogenous  portion  of  protein  may  be  burned  or 
possibly  stored,  but  the  nitrogen  excess  must  be  eliminated. 
Because  of  the  fact  that  excess  of  nitrogen  throws  work  on  the 
kidneys,  it  is  assumed  that  an  excessive  protein  diet  is  injuri- 
ous to  the  integrity  of  these  organs.  This  is  evident  in  dis- 
eased kidneys,  but  cannot  be  proved  for  healthy  organs. 
However,  it  seems  unnecessary  to  consume  a  great  excess  of 
protein  and  perhaps  unwise,  owing  to  the  great  frequency  of 
fatal  kidney  diseases.  At  any  rate,  except  where  protein  is 
specially  advantageous  for  ease  of  digestion,  it  is  unnecessary 
to  make  it  a  large  part  of  the  diet. 

Metabolism  of  Fat.  Fat,  which  is  passed  into  the  blood 
from  the  thoracic  duct,  is  carried  over  the  body  and  deposited 
in  many  organs  and  tissues,  unless  needed  for  immediate  use 
as  a  source  of  energy,  in  which  case  it  is  oxidized  to  carbon 
dioxide  and  water.  It  has  been  shown  that  diet-fat  may  be 
deposited  in  the  body  in  the  same  form  as  eaten,  but  the 
readiest  means  of  forming  body  fat  is  usually  to  give  an 
excess  of  carbohydrate.  The  ease  with  which  carbohydrates 
form  fat  is  shown  in  the  case  of  cows  which  produce  large 
quantities  of  butter  fat  on  an  herbivorous  diet.  It  is  also 
possible  to  form  fat  from  protein,  but  it  is  difficult,  as  a  con- 
siderable part  of  the  energy  of  the  protein  molecule  goes  to 
get  rid  of  the  nitrogen,  and  protein  increases  the  rate  of  metab- 
olism. We  know  very  little  of  the  details  of  fat  metabolism. 
Some  investigators  hold  that  it  must  be  converted  into  dex- 
trose before  it  can  be  oxidized.  As  already  stated,  an  excess 
of  carbohydrate  may  be  stored  in  the  form  of  fat. 

Metabolism  of  Carbohydrates.  The  blood  maintains  a  con- 
stant sugar  content  of  about  0.8  per  cent.     As  fast  a-<  thi* 


EXCRETION  53 

sugar  ifi  oxidized,  it  is  replaced  by  more  from  the  store  of 
glycogi  D  in  the  liver  and  muscles,  or  from  newly-formed 
sugar  of  recently  digested  food.  The  final  products  of  carbo- 
hydrate oxidation  are  carbon  dioxide  and  water,  but  several 
intermediate  products  (as  lactic  acid)  are  first  formed,  prob- 
ably by  the  action  of  enzymes. 

When  the  body  is  unable  to  store  any  more  carbohydrate  as 
glycogi  d,  all  further  storage  of  excess  is  in  the  form  of  fat. 

When  sugar  is  lacking  in  the  blood,  as  in  starvation  or 
failure  to  utilize  carbohydrates,  the  sugar  content  is  main- 
tained at  the  expense  of  protein.  This  explains  why  the  dia- 
betic who  is  eating  no  carbohydrate,  may  still  excrete  sugar 
in  the  urine.  There  is  some  experimental  evidence  that  su- 
gar may  be  formed  also  from  fat.  At  any  rate,  fat  is  oxidized 
in  absence  of  carbohydrate,  and  whether  it  is  first  changed  to 
sugar,  or  oxidized  directly,  it  is  a  compact  means  of  storing 
energy,  since  one  gram  of  fat  will  yield  2*4  times  as  much 
as  an  equal  amount  of  protein  or  carbohydrate. 

EXCRETION 

The  waste  products  of  metabolism  and  all  unutilized  food, 
along  with  the  products  of  oxidation,  are  eliminated  from  the 
system  in  several  ways.  Water  escapes  through  the  lungs, 
skin  and  kidneys.  Aside  from  the  obvious  fluid  perspiration, 
a  steady  evaporation  takes  place  from  the  skin  (insensible 
perspiration).  The  carbon  dioxide  produced  by  oxidation 
escapes  by  the  lungs,  and  nitrogenous  products  of  protein  me- 
tabolism by  the  urine.  The  feces  in  health  are  made  up 
of  the  >eeretions  and  excretions  of  the  alimentary  tract,  bac- 
teria, indigestible  food  waste,  and  a  little  undigested  food 
material.     When  there  ssive  putrefaction  of  the  fecal 

matter,  some  of  the  soluble  material  La  absorbed  and  elimi- 
nated in  the  urine.  Generally  Bpeaking,  putrefaction  (of 
nitrogenous  food)  and  fermentation  (of  carbohydrates)  hold 
each  other  in  check.  Starving  people  pass  feces,  thus  show- 
ing that  the  bowel  is  a  true  excretory  organ. 


CHAPTER  III 
FOOD  VALUES 

NITROGEN  BALANCE  —  ENERGY  VALUE  OF  FOOD 

"We  are  now  in  position  to  understand  something  of  food 
values,  which  depend  on  the  food  actually  utilized  in  the  body, 
to  the  exclusion  of  food  unabsorbed,  or  eliminated  because  in 
excess  of  the  demands  of  the  system.  Energy-yielding  ma- 
terial which  is  not  used  at  the  time  may  be  stored,  but  be- 
yond a  certain  point,  stored  nutriment  must  be  regarded  as 
undesirable,  as  in  obese  subjects. 

As  stated  by  Atwater,  the  food  supplies  body  wants  in  five 
ways:  (1)  tissue-building,  (2)  tissue-repairing,  (3)  storage 
for  future  use,  (4)  oxidation  to  maintain  animal  heat  and  (5) 
oxidation  to  supply  energy;  or  we  may  say  that  according  to 
function,  foods  are  classified  as  tissue-formers,  or  body-build- 
ers; energy  (or  work  and  heat)  producers;  and  regulators  of 
body  processes.     (See  page  5.) 

NITROGEN   BALANCE   OR   NITROGEN  EQUILIBRIUM 

In  body  building  and  repairing,  the  nitrogen  of  protein 
food  is  indispensable.  In  the  other  functions,  nitrogen  is  not 
utilized.  Carbohydrates  and  fats  are  the  natural  and  con- 
venient sources  of  energy,  although  the  protein  contains  in 
itself  non-nitrogenous  material  capable  of  oxidation.  As  al- 
ready stated,  however,  to  depend  largely  upon  protein  for 
oxidizable  food  means  the  ingestion  of  an  enormous  quantity 
of  unnecessary  nitrogen,  the  getting  rid  of  which  involves 
waste  of  energy  and  is  thought  to  necessitate  a  strain  upon 
the  excretory  system.  Furthermore,  when  the  diet  consists 
chiefly  of  protein,  much  of  the  latter  may  not  be  digested  and 
absorbed  as  such,  but  may  remain  in  the  intestine,  there  to 

54 


NFPROQEN  BALANCE  55 

undergo  putrefactive  changes.  In  the  course  of  putrefaction 
certain  soluble  poisonous  substances  form  and  are  absorbed, 
requiring  elimination  by  the  kidneys.  The  excess  of  nitrogen 
which  cannot  be  utilized  in  tissue  repair  must  also  be  elimi- 
nated by  the  kidneys.  Thus  while  people  may  thrive  on  a 
diet  rich  in  protein,  there  is  considerable  evidence  that  vital- 
ity, endurance  and  resistance  to  disease  are  better  attained 
with  a  diet  in  which  the  fuel  foods  (carbohydrates  and  fats) 
predominate. 

Nitrogen  cannot  be  stored  to  any  extent  and  is  constantly 
eliminated  in  the  urine  as  urea  and  other  nitrogenous  sub- 
stances. When  the  diet-nitrogen  corresponds  in  amount  with 
the  eliminated  nitrogen,  the  metabolism  of  nitrogen  is  bal- 
anced, or  in  a  state  of  equilibrium.  If  too  small  a  quantity 
of  nitrogenous  food  is  taken  it  does  not  compensate  for  the 
waste  of  body  nitrogen  which  is  inseparable  from  life.  The 
same  thing  occurs  when  for  any  reason  the  food  nitrogen  is 
not  absorbed,  or  is  eliminated  without  being  utilized.  This 
condition  of  nitrogen  starvation  is  characteristic  of  under- 
feeding, wasting  diseases,  defective  assimilation,  etc.  Con- 
versely equilibrium  between  food  nitrogen  and  excreted  ni- 
trogen represents  good  nutrition,  health  and  energy ;  for  while 
nitrogen  cannot  be  permanently  stored,  it  is  possible  for  a 
balance  to  be  maintained  over  long  periods.  It  was  once 
taught  that  increased  elimination  of  nitrogen  was  due  chiefly 
to  the  waste  of  tissue  incidental  to  prolonged  and  severe 
muscular  or  nervous  effort ;  at  a  later  period,  however,  it  be- 
came apparent  that  this  waste  was  comparatively  little,  and 
constant  for  the  individual  regardless  of  the  amount  of  muscu- 
lar exercise,  so  that  the  urea  nitrogen  depends  chiefly  on  the 
amount  of  diet  nitrogen.  The  loss  of  nitrogen  in  wasting 
disease,  starvation,  etc.,  is,  however,  extensive ;  so  that  in  con- 
valescence the  body  is  able  to  store  some  nitrogen. 

Xitrogen  retention  is  greatly  facilitated  in  all  cases  by  a 
liberal  supply  of  carbohydrates  and  fats. 

Xitrogen  metabolism  can  hardly  be  studied  in  the  ordinary 
patient,  on  account  of  the  number  and  variety  of  tests  which 


56  PRACTICAL  DIETETICS 

must  be  accurately  made,  so  that  our  only  guide  is  the  results 
of  scientific  investigation  of  the  amounts  of  nitrogen  required 
under  given  conditions,  and  the  general  well-being  of  the 
subject.  If  weight  is  maintained,  along  with  a  healthy  state 
of  functions,  the  ration  in  question  is  suitable  for  the  sub- 
ject tested.  If  the  individual  be  in  the  growing  period,  the 
ration  should  be  such  that  the  growth  rate  is  normal.  If 
he  be  a  convalescent,  the  recovery  of  the  original  weight  should 
be  constantly  progressive.  Of  late  years,  however,  the  em- 
phasis on  nitrogen  values  alone  has  been  largly  superseded 
by  greater  attention  to  total  fuel  values  as  being  of  greater 
practical  worth.  It  is  known  that  a  relatively  small  and 
easily  obtained  quantity  of  nitrogen  is  sufficient  to  repair  waste 
in  the  average  individual,  but  the  food  required  for  producing 
energy  is  very  significant  in  amount.  With  a  liberal  supply 
of  carbohydrates  and  fats,  the  ordinary  daily  waste  of  nitrogen 
in  one  adult  may  be  reduced  as  low  as  3  to  4  grams  daily 
(corresponding  to  20  to  25  grams  of  protein). 

To  insure  a  full  supply  of  nitrogen,  and  to  maintain  ni- 
trogen equilibrium  at  a  higher  level  than  the  bare  maintenance 
requirement,  considerably  more  than  this  amount  is  commonly 
taken.  From  80  to  100  grams  of  protein  per  day  is  re- 
garded as  a  liberal  supply  for  an  average  man  (weighing  70 
kilograms  or  154  lbs.)  on  an  ordinary  mixed  diet  of  suitable 
energy  value, 

THE  ENEBGY  VAITTE  OF  FOOD 

In  Liebig's  time  it  was  recognized  that  animal  heat  was 
generated  by  carbohydrates  and  fats,  but  the  physiologists  of 
that  day  did  not  realize  that  these  were  the  nutrients  which 
furnished  the  body  with  energy  for  its  activity.  They 
thought  that  all  muscular  work  was  done  at  the  expense  of 
nitrogenous  material.  It  has  taken  many  years  for  us  to 
realize  fully  that  animal  energy  in  all  its  forms  is  derived 
primarily  from  carbohydrate  material,  secondly  from  fats,  and 
thirdly  from  proteins  only  in  so  far  as  they  yield  combustible, 
non-nitrogenous  bodies. 


EXERGY  VALUE  57 

Energy  may  be  defined  as  the  power  to  do  work.  This 
force  manifests  itself  in  different  ways.  It  may  be  latent, 
or  inactive;  or  it  may  be  active  in  various  forms,  such  as 
heat;  chemical  or  electrical  energy;  or  mechanical  movement, 
which  we  call  work.  It  may  be  changed  from  one  of  these 
forms  into  another  without  loss.  The  most  convenient  way  to 
measure  energy  is  by  transforming  it  into  heat.  A  unit  has 
been  devised  to  express  different  amounts  of  heat,  correspond- 
ing to  a  definite  number  of  work  units;  this  is  called  the 
calorie.  One  calorie  represents  the  amount  of  heat  required 
to  raise  the  temperature  of  one  kilogram  of  water  one  degree 
Centigrade.  This  is  called  the  large  calorie,  which  is  com- 
monly used  in  determining  the  energy  value  of  food.  The 
small  calorie  is  rota  of  a  large  calorie. 

Energy  cannot  be  created.  We  must  put  into  any  machine 
as  much  force  as  we  expect  to  get  from  it.  Even  in  the  most 
efficient  machine  we  cannot  recover  all  of  the  energy  in  the 
form  of  useful  work;  some  of  it  is  always  transformed  into 
heat,  owing  to  friction.  This  is  true  even  in  the  body,  which 
is  a  most  efficient  machine,  but  here  much  of  the  waste  energy 
in  the  form  of  heat  is  turned  to  good  account  in  maintaining 
the  body  temperature. 

The  source  of  energy  for  the  body  is  food,  just  as  much  as 
the  source  of  energy  for  the  engine  is  coal.  Plants  store  up 
the  sun's  energy,  it  is  transferred  to  animals  which  eat  the 
plants,  and  eventually  man  gets  it  by  eating  the  plant  and 
animal  foods.  The  amount  of  energy  in  any  given  food  ma- 
terial is  measured  by  the  amount  of  heat  which  it  will  pro- 
duce. In  general,  this  is  the  same,  whether  the  food  be 
burned  outside  or  inside  the  body,  the  total  result  in  any  case 
depending  upon  the  amount  of  the  food-stuff  which  is  utilized 
by  the  body. 

An  instrument  devised  for  the  measurement  of  heat  is 
called  a  calorimeter.  To  determine  the  fuel  value  of  any 
food  material  outside  of  the  body,  a  given  amount  is  placed 
in  a  calorimeter,  where  it  is  burned  in  an  atmosphere  of  pure 
oxygen,  in  a  vessel  surrounded  by  water.     The  heat  generated 


58  PRACTICAL  DIETETICS 

raises  the  temperature  of  the  water,  and  the  change  is  ob- 
served with  a  very  delicate  thermometer.  From  this  the 
total  heat  evolved  is  calculated.  To  determine  the  fuel  value 
of  this  material  within  the  body,  the  average  amount  which 
is  lost  in  digestion,  or  which  is  not  completely  oxidized  before 
excretion,  is  deducted  from  the  fuel  value  outside  the  body. 
The  result  is  the  physiological  fuel  value.  Many  years  ago, 
Rubner  determined  averages  for  proteins,  fats,  and  carbohy- 
drates from  experiments  on  dogs.  In  recent  times,  further 
experiments  made  in  this  country  on  human  subjects  by  Prof. 
Atwater  and  his  associates  have  modified  these  factors  some- 
what. The  following  are  therefore  accepted  as  the  average 
energy  values  of  food  in  the  body  to-day : 

1  gram  of  Protein    yields  4  Calories 

1  gram  of  Fat    yields  9  Calories 

1  gram  of  Carbohydrate    .  . .   yields  4  Calories 

DETERMINATION  OF  ENERGY  VALUE  OF  FOOD 

To  determine  the  energy  value  of  a  given  amount  of  any 
food,  it  is  necessary  to  know  first  its  composition,  i.  e.,  the 
percentages  of  protein,  fat,  and  carbohydrate  present.  Tables 
are  available  giving  the  results  of  many  analyses,  as  in  Bulle- 
tin 28,  Office  of  Experiment  Station,  United  States  Dept.  of 
Agriculture,  Washington,  D.  C,  "The  Chemical  Composi- 
tion of  American  Food  Materials." 

Second.  From  these  percentages  to  determine  the  weight 
of  protein  fat  and  carbohydrate  in  grams,  which  can  be  ob- 
tained from  a  given  amount  of  the  food  material. 

Third.  To  multiply  these  weights  by  the  energy  value  of 
one  gram  of  each  of  the  three  food  principles. 

By  way  of  illustration  let  us  find  the  fuel  value  of  one  loaf 
of  bread,  weighing  12  ounces. 

(1)  By  referring  to  Bulletin  28,  we  find  that  white  bread 
(miscellaneous)  yields  on  the  average, 

0.3  %  protein. 
1.2  %  fat. 
52.7  %  carbohydrate. 


ENERGY  VALUE  59 

(2)  To  get  the  weight  of  protein,  fat  and  carbohydrate  in 
grams,  we  must  first  convert  the  total  weight  of  bread  into 
grams. 

1  oz.  =3     28.35  grams. 
12  oz.  =  340.2     grams. 
Then  340.2  X  0.093  =     31.04  grams  of  protein. 
340.2  X  0.012  =       4.03  grams  of  fat. 
340.2  X  0.527  =  179.28  grams  of  carbohydrate. 

(3)  Multiplying  the  amount  of  each  nutrient  by  the  proper 
factor, 

31.64  grams  protein  X  4  =  12G.56  Calories 

4.08  grams  fat  X9=    36.72  Calories 

179.28  grams  carbohydrate  X  4  =  717.12  Calories 

Total    880.40  Calorie* 

Hence  the  total  energy  value  of  1  loaf  of  bread  weighing  12 
ounces  is  880.4  calories. 

To  calculate  the  total  energy  value  of  any  combination  of 
foods,  it  is  necessary  to  compute  the  fuel  value  of  each  in- 
gredient, and  take  the  sum  of  the  whole  group. 

Thus  for  Egg  Broth,  page  118,  it  is  necessary  first  to  get 
the  weight  in  grams  of  each  of  the  following  ingredients  and 
then  to  estimate  their  energy  value  as  indicated  above. 

Yolk  of  1  egg =    13  grams. 

1    tablespoon   sugar =    15  grams. 

1  cup  milk =  244  grams. 

1  tablespoon   brandy =    14  gram-. 

In  this  book  the  food  values  of  all  the  materials  used  have 
been  incorporated  into  a  table,  so  that  by  reference  to  this 
the  value  of  any  combination  is  quickly  made. 

Yolk  of  1   egg =    48  Calories. 

1  tablespoon  sugar =    60  Calories. 

1   cup  milk =  169  Calories. 

1  tablespoon  brandy* =    42  Calories. 

Total  energy  value 319  Calories. 

lrThe  energy  value  of  alcohol  is  7  calories  per  gram.  It  is  necessary, 
therefore,   to  know   the  per  cent,  of  alcohol   in   any    liqimr. 


60  PRACTICAL  DIETETICS 

To  estimate  the  fuel  value  of  any  diet,  it  is  simply  necessary 
to  compute  the  food  value  of  each  food  material  used  and  add 
the  results  together. 

To  estimate  the  fuel  value  of  an  infant's  diet,  the  following 
formula,  adapted  to  the  above  factors  for  energy  value  from 
Friedenwald  and  Kuhrah's  Diet  in  Health  and  Disease,  is 
very  convenient. 

Formula  for  calculating  the  Calories  of  Any  Period  of 
Infant  Feeding: 

( 1 )  Quantity  X  F  X  2.65  =  Calories  from  fat. 

(2)  Quantity  X  (S  +  P)  X  1.18  =  Calories  from  protein  and  sugar. 

The  sum  of  1  and  2  gives  the  total  calories. 

Quantity  =  24-hour  amount  in  ounces.  F,  S  and  P  = 
fat,  sugar,  and  protein  respectively,  with  percents  in  whole 
numbers. 

To  illustrate,  take  a  formula  of  the  following  composition: 

Protein    0.7% 

Fat    : 2.7% 

Carbohydrates    .  . , 6.0% 

Feedings  per  day  9,  amount  at  each  finding  iy2  oz. 

Hence  Q  =  13.5  oz.  (9  X  1%) 
F=    2.7  oz. 
S=    6     oz. 
P=   0.7  oz. 

(1)  Q.  X  F  X  2.65  =  13.5  X  2.7  X  2.65  =  96.6  Cal. 

(2)  Q.  X  (S  +  P)  X  1.18  =  13.5  X   (6  +  0.7)   X  1.18  =  106.7  Cal. 

96.6  +  106.7  =  203.3  Cal.,  total  for  day. 

THE    ENERGY    REQUIREMENTS    OF    THE    BODY 

Work  goes  on  continually  in  the  living  body,  whether  asleep 
or  awake,  idle  or  active,  sick  or  .well.  In  the  resting  body  it 
consists  of  such  internal  work  as  that  of  digestion  and  absorp- 
tion, circulation,  respiration,  muscular  tension,  and  intracellu- 
lar work. 

In  youth  these  functions  are  more  active  than  in  adult  life; 
in  old  age  they  are  somewhat  less  active. 


ENERGY  REQUIREMENT  61 

For  a  man  of  average  weight  (154  lbs.  or  70  kg.)  from 
1600  to  2000  cal.  daily  are  required  to  supply  energy  for 
these  internal  activities.  Children  require  somewhat  more  in 
proportion  to  their  body  weight,  aged  persons  somewhat  less. 
Beyond  this,  the  factor  of  most  significance  in  determining  the 
total  food  requirement  for  any  individual  is  the  amount  of 
muscular  activity.  A  man  requiring  100  cal.  per  hour  at 
rest  may  by  hard  work  raise  his  energy  requirement  as  high 
as  500  or  600  cal.  per  hour.  For  this  reason  a  person  en- 
gaged in  a  sedentary  occupation  needs  less  food  than  one 
whose  work  is  physical,  as  a  farmer  or  lumberman.  Children 
are  usually  more  active  than  adults,  and  hence  in  proportion 
to  their  weight  require  more  food,  while  inactive  aged  per- 
sons require  very  little. 

Averages  obtained  from  many  observations  on  the  amount 
of  food  consumed  by  individuals  under  different  conditions, 
show  that  the  energy  requirement  of  the  active  man  of  70 
kgs.  body  weight  is  approximately  3000  calories. 

In  making  estimates  for  any  individual,  age,  weight,  size 
and  shape,  season  and  climate,  mechanical  efficiency,  etc., 
must  be  considered  as  well  as  muscular  activity. 

During  the  early  months  of  life,  children  require  about  100 
cal.  per  kilogram  of  body  weight.  Throughout  the  years  of 
childhood,  they  need  about  80  calories  per  kilogram.  The 
adult  moderately  active,  35— ±0  cal.  per  kilogram,  and  the 
very  aged,  about  27  cal.  per  kilogram. 

"  The  following  table,  computed  by  Kubner,  shows  the  daily 
heat  consumption,  in  units  of  heat  (calories)  in  an  adult, 
weighing  65  kilograms  or  140  lbs." 

During  rest  in  bed.  .  1800  calories  or  28  Cal.  per  kilogram. 

In   repose    2100  calories  or  32  Cal.  per  kilogram. 

In   light    work 2300  calories  or  33  Cal.  per  kilogram. 

In  moderate  work..  2600  calories  or  40  Cal.  per  kilogram. 

In   hard   work 3100  calories  or  48  Cal.  per  kilogram. 

The  total  energy  requirement  for  individuals  under  differ- 
ent conditions  of  age,  weight,  and  activity  are  approximately 
as  indicated  in  the  following  table: 


62  ^PRACTICAL  DIETETICS 

ENERGY  PE$  DAY 
CONDITIONS  IN   CALORIES 

Man  at  light  work , 2500-2800  Cal. 

Man  at  moderate  work . ,  ■  3000-35,00  Gal. 

Man  at  very  hard  work    .....   4000-5000  Gal. 

Woman  at  light  work 1800-2400  Cal. 

Woman  at  moderate  work 2400-2800  Cal. 

.       Child  from  two  to  six 1200-1800  Cal. 

Child  from  six  to  fifteen 1800-2500  Cal. 

Aged  Man 1800-2000  Cal. 

Aged   Woman    . .    1600-1800  Cal. 

The  most  convenient  means  of  calculating  the  energy  value 
is  afforded  by  the  following  table,  determined  for  the  adult 
man  of  average  weight. 

AVERAGE  NORMAL  0TJTPTJT  OF  HEAT  FROM  THE  BODY 

AVERAGE 
CONDITIONS   OF   MUSCULAR  ACTIVITY  CALORIES  PER 

•  HOUR 

Man  at  rest,  sleeping 65  Calories 

Man  at  rest,  awake,  sitting  up   100  Calories 

Man  at  light  muscular  exercise    170  Calories 

Man  at  moderately  active  muscular  exercise  . .  290  Calories 

Man  at  severe  muscular  exercise 450  Calories 

Man  at  very  severe  muscular  exercise 600  Calories 

To  illustrate  the  use  of  this  table,  let  us  calculate  the 
energy  requirement  of  a  woman  weighing  120  lbs.,  under 
the  following  conditions : 

Sleeps  9  hours   9  X    65  =  585  Cal. 

Works  at  desk  8  hours   8  X  100  =  800  Cal. 

Walks  or  does  light  exercise  3  hrs 3  X  170  =  510  Cal. 

Reads  or  sits  quietly  sewing  4  hrs 4  X  100  =  400  Cal. 

2295  Cal. 

Since  these  factors  are  for  a  man  weighing  154  lbs.,  for  a 
woman  of  120  lbs.  under  above  conditions,  reduce  this  pro- 
portionately to  her  weight, 

154   :  120   :    :  2295    :  X 

X=    1788  cal. —  total    energy    requirement    for 
a  woman  of  120  lbs.,  under  the  above  conditions. 


ENERGY  REQUIREMENT  63 

The  protein  requirement  is  conveniently  estimated  by  pro- 
viding 10-12  per  cent,  of  the  day's  energy  in  the  form  of 
protein.  Thus  for  a  man  whose  energy  requirement  is  3000 
cal.  per  day,  360  eal.  from  protein  (12  per  cent.)  would 
correspond  to  90  grams  of  protein,  which  would  be  a  fairly 
liberal  allowance. 

A  tall  thin  person  requires  more  food  than  a  short  fat 
person  of  equal  weight.  Also,  the  person  of  nervous  tern- 
permanent,  in  whom  muscular  tension  is  high,  may  require 
more  food  than  one  of  phlegmatic  temperament.  More  en- 
ergy is  lost  in  the  form  of  heat  in  cold  weather  than  in  warm. 
Because  of  the  numerous  factors  involved  in  any  case,  it  is 
possible  to  calculate  the  absolute  energy  requirement  only 
by  rigid  scientific  experiment.  The  tables  given  above,  how^ 
ever,  are  a  useful  guide  to  the  approximate  amount  of  food 
required  by  different  individuals. 

As  an  aid  to  easy  estimation  of  the  food  value  of  any  diet, 
the  following  tables  have  been  introduced,  showing  the  nutri- 
tive value  of  the  food  materials  used  in  the  recipes  in  this 
book,  calculated  for  the  quantities  commonly  required  in 
cooking  for  individuals. 

The  values  for  larger  amounts  will  be  easily  obtained  by 
simple  multiplication. 


64 


PRACTICAL  DIETETICS 


TABLE  SHOWING  THE  NUTRITIVE  VALUE  OF  THE  FOOD  MA- 
TERIALS USED  IN  THE  RECIPES  IN  THIS  BOOK,  CALCU- 
LATED FOR  THE  QUANTITIES  COMMONLY  REQUIRED  IN 
COOKING  SMALL  PORTIONS « 


FOOD  MATERIAL 
(Uncooked) 


Almonds,  Shelled 
Apples,  Fresh 


Apricots,  Dried. 

Arrowroot 

Asparagus 

B 

Bacon  (cooked). 
"      (raw)  .  .  . 

Bananas 


Barley,  Pearl.  .  . 

"       Crushed . 

Flour... 


Bass  (edible  portion) 


Bean  Flour. 


Beans,  String. 
Beef  Broth .  .  . 


Beef  Juice. . . . 
Beef  Marrow. 


Beef  Steak,  Porterhouse .  . 

"       Rump 

"        Sirloin 

a  u 

"        Top  of  Round. 


1  cup 


medium 
cup    . 

cup 

tbsp. 
bunch 


serving 
lb. 


1  medium 


tbsp. 
tbsp. 
tbsp. 
cup 


serving . 
lb. 


tbsp. 
cup 


1  serving 


serving 
quart 


1  serving 


tbsp. 
lb. 


serving 

lb. 

serving 

lb. 

serving 

lb. 

serving 

lb. 


Ozs. 

42/s 


44  (23/4 
lbs.) 


16 
3V2 


3i/2 
16 


3/io 

42/5 


3»/i 
32 

3>/« 

V2 
16 

3»/» 
16 

3V2 
16 

3i/k 
16 

3V, 
16 


Gms. 
133 

150 

85 

142 

10 

1247 


10 
454 

100 

15 

14 

16 

227 

100 
454 

8 
125 

113 

100 
907 

100 

14 
454 

100 
454 
100 
454 
100 
454 
100 
454 


c 

o2 

.o-c 

h  >> 

Oh 

01  _c 

0* 

Gms. 

Gms. 

Gms. 

27.9 

72.9 

23.0 

0.5 

0.5 

16.0 

1.4 

1.8 

56.2 

6.6 

1.4 

88.5 
9.8 

22.4 

2.4 

41.0 

2.0 

6.0 

43.0 

269.4 

0.8 

0.4 

14.0 

1.3 

0.2 

11.7 

1.1 

0.1 

11.3 

1.3 

0.2 

12.5 

19.0 

2.5 

174.3 

18.6 

2.8 

84.3 

12.6 

1.8 

0.1 

4.8 

29.3 

2.3 

77.5 

2.4 

0.3 

5.8 

1.8 

1.0 

16.5 

9.3 

4.9 

0.6 

0.3 

13.1 

9.9 

420.8 

19.1 

18.0 

86  6 

81.2 

21.0 

13.7 

94  8 

62.1 

16.5 

16.1 

74.8 

73  0 

19.5 

7.3 

88.4 

33.1 

Calor- 
ies 
859 

70 

247 

391 

39 

276 


62 
2597 

64 

54 

51 

57 

796 

100 

452 

28 
448 


16 
149 

25 

120 

3828 

238 
1077 
207 
938 
211 
957 
144 
652 


1  Food  values  according  to  individual  servings,  note  page  71A. 


ESTIMATES  OF  FOOD  VALUES 


65 


FOOD  MATERIAL 
(Uncooked) 


B — (Continued) 
Blue  Fish  (edible  portion) . .  . 

u  «  u  o 

Brandy 

Bran 

Brazil  Nuts,  Shelled 

■  a  a 

u  ■  a 

Bread.  White 

■  Crumbs  (dry) 

■  Boston  Brown 

■  Gum  Gluten 

Butter 

C 

Carrots 

Cauliflower 

Celery 

Cheese,  American 

"  "     (fresh  grated) 

■  Cottage 

■  Cream 

Chicken  (edible  portion) 
Chocolate  (unsweetened) . . . . 

u  u 

Clams  (edible  portion) 

Clam  Bouillon 

Claret  (10%  alcohol) 

Cocoa 

Cod,  Fresh  (edible  portion) . . 
Cod  Fish,  Sait,  Boneless'. !  ! 


1  serving 
1  lb. 

1  tbsp. 

1  cup 

1  lb. 
1  nut 
1  tbsp. 
chopped 

1  slice 
1  loaf 
I  cup 
1  small 

slice 
1  slice 
1  loaf 

1  tbsp. 
1  cup 


1  small 
1  serving 
1  serving 

1  tbsp. 

2  tbsp. 

1  serving 

2  tbsp. 
{Vh  cubic- 
inch) 

1  serving 
1  lb. 

1  square 
1  lb. 

1  serving 
1  serving 
1  quart 

1  tbsp. 

1  tbsp. 

1  serving 
1  lb. 

1  serving 
1  lb. 


0ms. 

3'/i 
16 

lh 

2>/« 

16 

V* 

S/4 


12 

4«/» 


V» 


3>  1 
16 

1 
16 

3>  '•> 

■V   2 

32 

'/« 

3'/i 
16 

2 
16 


Gms. 

100 
454 

14 

71 

454 


28.4 
340 
136 

28.4 

28  4 

386.5 

14 

227 


57 
113 

57 

15 
28 
28 
24 


100 
454 

28.4 
454 

100 

100 

906 
14 

7 

100 

454 

57 

454 


Gms. 


19.4 
87.8 


7.8 

76.9 
1.2 

3.6 

2.6 
31.6 
12.6 

1.5 

8.4 
114.0 

0.1 

2.2 


0.5 

2.0 

0.6 

4.0 
8.0 
5.9 
6.1 


21.4 
97.5 


3.6 

58.5 


8  6 
0.2 
2.0 


1.5 

16.5 

74.8 

15.7 

125.6 


Gms. 


1.2 

5.4 


1.5 

302.8 

4.7 

14.2 

0.3 
4.1 
1.6 

0.5 

.3 

4.0 

12.1 
193.0 


0.6 


5.0 

10.0 

0.2 

8.1 


2.5 
11.3 


13.8 
220.9 


1.0 
0^8 


2.0 

0.4 
1.8 
0.2 
1.4 


Gms. 


43.4 

31.6 
0.01 

0.1 

15.0 

179.3 
71.7 

13.3 

8.5 

116.3 


4.2 
5.2 
1.9 


1.2 
0.6 


8.5 
137.4 

2.0 
0.2 
1.6 


Calor- 
ies 

88 
401 


218 

3048 
47 

142 

73 
881 
352 

64 

70 

957 

109 
1744 


20 
35 
11 

62 
124 

31 
100 


108 
492 

173 

2772 

51 

2 

23 

10 

35 

70 
315 

64 
515 


66 


PRACTICAL  DIETETICS 


FOOD  MATERIAL 
(Uncooked) 


C— (Continued) 
Condensed  Milk 


Consomme . 


Corn 

Cornmeal . 


Cornstarch . 


Cracker  Crumbs . 
Crackers,  Water . 


Cream,  Thin  (18%)  . 
Thick  (40%) 


Cucumbers,  Fresh  (ed.  por.). 


Currants,  Fresh. 
Dried. 


Dates 

Dry  Peptonoids,  Soluble 

E 

Eggs1,      whole      small 

(without  shell) 

Eggs',  White 

Eggs».  Yolk 


Farina . 


FiP 

Filberts,  Shelled 


1  teaspoon 

1  can 

1  serving 
1  quart 

1  cup 

1  tbsp. 
1  cup 

1  tbsp. 
1  cup 

1  cup 
1  large 

1  tbsp. 
1  cup 
1  tbsp. 
1  cup 


1  cup 
1  cup 


1  cup  (with 
stones) 
1  tbsp. 


1  tbsp. 
1  cup 

1  fig  (lge) 
V*  lb. 

1  lb. 
1  doz. 
1  tbsp. 
(chopped) 


Ozs. 

3/io 
1 
16 

3Vs 

32 


5>/2 


11/2 
9/l0 


16 


Gms. 

11 

28 

450 

100 
906 


10 

142 

10 
156 

lal 

10 

14 

227 

14 

227 


28 


142 

227 


200 
159 


10 
170 


28 

227 


454 
21 


Gms. 

0.9 

2.3 

36.3 

2.5 
23.0 


0.8 
13.0 


16.5 
1.2 

0.4 
5.6 
0.3 
5.0 

0.2 

2.1 
5.4 


3.8 
6.0 


5.4 
3.3 
2.1 


1.0 
18.7 


1.3 
9.7 


70.7 
3.3 


Gms. 

1.0 

2.7 
43.7 


3.0 


0.2 
2.6 


9.0 
0.5 

2.8 
41.9 

6.0 
90.7 


06 


3.8 


5.0 


4.2 

'4^5 


0.1 

2.3 


0.1 
0.7 


206.2 
13.8 


Gms. 

6.0 

15.6 

250.6 

0.4 
3.5 


7.1 
106.8 

9.5 
148.2 

110.2 

7.6 

0.7 

10.2 

0   5 

6.8 


140.0 
8.0 


7.2 
129.8 


22.2 
168.2 


58.9 

2.7 


Calor- 
ies 

37 

96 

1541 

12 
106 

248 

33 
504 

38 
592 

588 
40 

29 
440 

57 
864 


81 
728 


623 

57 


34 
616 


95 

718 


3184 
150 


Note  Eggs,  page  71C. 


ESTIMATES  OF  FOOD  VALUES 


67 


FOOD  MATERIAL 

(.Uncooked) 


F — (Continued) 

Flour,  Barley 

"       Gum  Gluten 

"       Graham 

Rice........ 

«     Rye/"!!!!!!!!!!!!! 

a  a 

"       Wheat  (roller  process) 


Fowl  (edible  portion) 


Gelatin,  Granulated. 

u  a 

■       Shredded..! 
Gum  Gluten  Flour.  . 


Bread . 


Biscuit  Crisp.. 
Noodles 


Greens.  .  . 
Grapes,  Malaga. 

Grape  Juice . 


(A.  P.)... 


H 
Haddock  (edible  portion) 

a  a 

Halibut  (edible  portion) 
Ham,  Fresh,  Lean 

a  ■  a 

Hickory  Nuts,  Shelled .  . 


1  tbsp. 
1  cup 
1  tbsp. 
1  cup 
1  tbsp. 
1  cup 
1  tbsp. 
1  cup 
1  tbsp. 
1  cup 
1  tbsp. 
1  cup 

1  serving 
1  lb. 


1  tbsp. 
1  box 
lh  box 

1  tbsp. 
1  cup 
1  lb. 
1  slice 
1  loaf 
1  biscuit 
1  cup 

1  serving 

1  dozen 
1  lb. 

1  tbsp. 
1  cup 


1  serving 
1  lb. 


1  serving 
1  lb. 

1  serving 

1  lb. 

1  lb. 
'/«  cup 
(chopped) 
1  tbsp. 
■,  bopped  I 


Ozs. 

"3 

8 

'/3 

5 
lh 

5 

V« 

4>/t 

Vi 

5 
i  , 

4'/2 

3«/« 
16 


IV. 

3/s 


3Vi 
16 


3'/i 
16 


3'/j 
16 


If. 

1    . 


Gms. 

8 
227 

8 
142 

8 
142 

7 
128 

8 
142 

8 
126 

100 
454 


>/l 

8 

5 

142 

16 

454 

1 

28 

13 

386 

'/< 

7 

3>/2 

100 

57 
454 


14 

227 


100 
454 


100 

45  1 


100 
454 


C/l 

<D 

c 

C  u 

S 

.0*0 

4-> 

rt 

rtX! 

CU 

h 

O* 

Cms. 

Gms. 

Gms. 

0   7 

0.1 

6.3 

19.0 

2.5 

174.3 

3.4 

.1 

3.4 

60.0 

2.3 

63.0 

1.2 

0.2 

5.7 

20.2 

3    2 

101.2 

0.6 

0.5 

5.1 

10. 9 

7.8 

86.8 

0    5 

6  3 

9   6 

1.3 

111.5 

0.9 

6.0 

15.2 

3.2 

84.8 

19.3 

16.3 

87.5 

73.9 

7.8 

31.1 

15.6 

3.4 

.1 

3.4 

60  0 

2.3 

63.0 

191.0 

7.3 

200.0 

8.4 

.3 

8.5 

114  0 

4.0 

116.3 

0.7 

0.1 

5  6 

45.0 

4.2 

32.5 

2   3 

0.3 

3.6 

0  7 

0  9 

10.8 

4.5 

5   4 

65.3 

,S8 
60,  0 

17.2 

0.3 

77.9 

1.3 

1X6 

5.2 

84.3 

23.5 

24.8 

14.2 

112.6 

64   4 

69.7 

305  6 

51.6 

6.5 

28.5 

4.8 

2.1 

9  5 

1.6 

Calor- 
ies 

29 
796 

29 
512 

30 
509 

27 
461 

28 
496 

28 
445 

224 
1015 


31 
125 
62 

29 
512 
1629 

70 
957 

25 
350 


27 


55 
328 


15 
240 


72 
324 


121 
549 


227 
1029 


3234 
303 


101 


PRACTICAL  DIETETICS 


FOOD  MATERIAL 
(Uncooked) 


H — (Continued) 
Hominy 

Honey 

J 
JelJ-0 

K 
Kumyss 

L 

Lamb  Chops 

Lard 

Lemon  Juice  (1  lemon) .  .  . 
Lentil  Flour 

u  u 

Lettuce 

Liquid  Peptonoids 

Lobster  (edible  portion) . . 

M 

Macaroni 

Mackerel,  Fresh  (ed.  por.) 

a  u  u 

Salted 

a  a 

Malted  Milk,  Horlick's.  .  . 
Milk,  Whole 

u  a 

■      Skimmed 

«  u 

Molasses 

■ 

Mutton  Chops 


tbsp. 
cup 


1  tbsp. 


box 
serving 


Iqt. 


serving 
lb. 

tbsp. 
lb. 

tbsp. 
tbsp. 
cup 

head 

tbsp. 

serving 
lb. 


1  cup 


serving 

to- 
serving 
lb. 


1  tbsp. 

tbsp. 

cup 

quart 

tbsp. 

cup 

quart 

tbsp. 
cup 


serving 
lb. 


Ozs. 


lh 

5V2 


342/0 


31/2 

16 


16 

1V2 
3/io 
5 


31/2 
16 


3*is 

3>/2 

16 
31/2 
16 

Hi 

"10 

83/s 

342/5 

7/l0 

8V» 

342/s 


31/2 
16 


Gms. 


14 

157 


2S 


100 
16 


975 


100 
454 


14 

454 


42 

9 

144 


227 
15 


100 
454 


108 

100 

454 
100 
454 

14 

20 
244 
975 

20 
244 
975 

27 
317 

100 

454 


G 

'0 
O 

ft 

Gms. 

Gms. 

Gms. 

1.2 
13.0 

0.1 
1.0 

11.2 
110.0 

0.1 

23.0 

11.2 
1.9 

86.4 
14.4 

2.2 

2.1 

1.5 

18.7 
84.8 

28.3 
128.3 

14.0 
484.0 

2.3 

37.0 

0^9 
1.4 

4.2 

5.3 

85.0 

2.3 

0.5 

5.7 

0.8 

2.1 

18.1 
82.0 

1.1 
4.9 

0.5 

2.2 

14.7 

1.0 

81.1 

18.7 
84.8 
17.3 
78.5 

7.1 

32.1 

26.4 

119.7 

2.3 

1.2 

9.5 

0.6 
8.0 

32.2 

.7 

8.3 

33.1 

0.8 

9.3 

39.0 

6^7 
2.9 

1.0 
12.2 
48.8 

1.0 
12.5 
49.7 

0  6 
7.6 

18.7 
219.7 

16.0 

72.5 

33.1 
150.1 

Calor- 
ies 

50 
565 


395 
66 


328 


329 
1494 

127 
4083 

17 

31 

500 


84 
382 


392 

139 
629 
307 
1392 

59 

14 

169 

675 

7 

89 
358 

77 
909 

362 

1640 


ESTIMATES  OF  FOOD  VALUES 


69 


FOOD  MATERIAL 
(.Uncooked) 


N 

Noodles,  Gluten 

O 
Oatmeal,  Granulated 

Oats,  Rolled 


Olive  Oil,  Nicelle. 
Olives 


Onion 

Orange.  E.  P 
.Orange  Juice. 

Oysters 


Panopepton .  .  . 

Peaches,  Fresh. 

Dried 

Peach  Juice .  .  . 


Peanuts.  Shelled 
Peanut  Butter.  . 


Peas,  Green  .  . 

■       Canned . 


Pea  Flour 

Pecans,  Shelled  . 


Pineapple.  Fresh  fed.  por.) . 
Canned 


Port  Wine  (10r't  alcohol). 


Potatoes.White . 
Sweet . 


Prunes. 


tbsp. 
cup 

tbsp. 
cup 

tbsp. 
or  3 

serving 

medium 

tbsp. 
cup 


cup 
(solid) 


1  tbsp. 


medium 
cup 
tbsp. 
cup 

cup 
tbsp. 

serving 
cup 

tbsp. 

cup 

cup 


slice 
cup 

can 

tbsp. 

medium 
medium 

cup 
prunes 


Ok. 

3', 


57j 


V* 

2Vj 


1 
8V« 


4 
0  I 


5 

5", 

8 

10'/» 

24 


3«/i 


Gms. 
100 


14 
156 


113 
142 


14 

227 


28.4 
240 


15 

113 
85 
14 

227 

142 
16 

113 

184 

9 
144 
156 

227 
S3 

290 
680 

14 

100 
100 

142 

28 


a 
'S 

8 

6 

o  £ 
.a-o 

M    >> 

Gms. 

Gms. 

Gms. 

45.0 

4.2 

32.5 

1.8 
25.1 

0.9 
11.2 

9.9 
105.2 

0.7 
11.8 

0.3 
5.2 

2.7 
46.9 

o!i 

15.0 

2.8 

1.2 

1.8 

0.3 

11.2 

1.2 

0.3 

16.4 

1.6 
25.6 

1.7 
14.4 

0.3 
3.1 

1.0 
7.9 

1.0 

2.5 

0.8 
1.4 

0.1 

1.8 

11.3 

56.2 

1.1 

17.6 

36.5 
4.8 

54.7 
7.7 

34.5 

2.8 

7.7 
6.6 

0.5 
0.4 

19.6 
18.0 

2.3 
36  9 
15.0 

1.0 

16.0 

110.0 

5.8 
93.0 

23.8 

0.9 
0.2 
1.2 
2.6 

0.7 
0  3 
2  0 

4.8 

22.0 

19.3 

10.6 

247.0 

2.2 
1.8 

0   1 
0.7 

18.4 
27.4 

2.5 
0  5 

88.1 
17  6 

Calor- 
ies 


434 


55 
623 


16 

282 


135 
31 


6 

104 


14 
118 


30 

50 

247 

5 

80 

777 
100 

114 
100 

41 
656 
1145 

98 

81 

444 

1044 


10 


83 

12  < 


363 

72 


70 


PRACTICAL  DIETETICS 


FOOD  MATERIAL 
(Uncooked) 


Quail. 


Raisins. 


Raspberries,  Fresh,  Black 

(edible  portion) 
Raspberry  Juice 


Rhubarb . 


Rice. 
Rum 


Salmon  (edible  portion) 


vSaltines 

Sardines,  Canned. 


Shad  (edible  portion) 

"      Roe '...'.... 

Sherry 

Spinach  (cooked) 

Squabs ..." 

Squash  (cooked) 

Strawberries  (edible  portion] 

Strawberry  Juice 

Suet 


Sugar,  Granulated 
■        Loaf 

u  u 

"      Powdered  .  .  . 


1  serving 


1  dozen 
1  cup 


1  cup 
1  cup 


1  tbsp. 
1  cup 
1  tbsp. 


1  serving 

1  lb. 

1  wafer 

1  serving 
1  can 

1  serving 

1  lb. 

1  serving 

1  tbsp. 

1  serving 

1  serving 

1  serving 

1  serving 
1  cup 
1  cup 

1  tbsp. 
1  lb. 

1  tbsp. 
1  cup 
1  lump 
1  cup 
1  tbsp. 
1  cup 


Ozs. 
3V2 


3i/2 
16 


3V2 
16 

3'/2 
16 

3V2 


3 
3V* 

31/2 

4 
6 


10 


V2 


Gms. 
100 


9 
142 


142 
227 

28 
454 

15 

200 

14 


100 
454 


100 
454 

100 

454 
100 

14 

87 

100 

100 

113 

170 
227 

14 
454 


>/2 

15 

71/? 

210 

2/5 

7 

6.5 

184 

V* 

12 

6.5 

184 

0 

Oh 

<L> 

Art 
O  u 

b   >> 

Gms. 

Gms. 

Gms. 

21.8 

8.0 

0.2 
3.3 

0.3 
4.3 

6.8 
97.1 

2.4 

1.4 

17.8 
22.6 

0.2 

2.7 

0.2 
3.2 

1.0 
16.3 

1.1 
16.0 

6.6 

11.2 
158.0 

22.0 
99.6 

12.8 
57.9 

0.4 

0.5 

2.4 

23.0 
104.3 

19.7 
89.2 

18.8 
85.1 
20.9 

9.5 
43.0 

3.8 

2.0 

1.1 

0.2 

2.6 

16.3 

36.2 

1.4 

0.5 

9.0 

1.0 
1.5 

0.7 
1.0 

7.9 
11.9 
11.4 

21^3 

11.6 

371.0 

15.0 

210.0 

7.0 

184.0 

12.0 
184.0 

Calor- 
ies 

159 


31 
440 


94 
90 

6 

105 

50 

702 

38 


203 
922 

15 

269 

1221 

161 
729 
128 

13 

16 

391 


42 
63 

45 

107 
3425 

60 
840 

28 
736 

48 
736 


ESTIMATES  OF  FOOD  VALUES 


71 


FOOD  MATERIAL 
(Uncooked) 


S — (Continued) 
Sugar  of  Milk 


a  a         a 


Sweetbreads . 


Tomatoes . 


Tapioca,  Pearled 

"         Minute  Tapioca 
Trout  (edible  portion) .  .  . 


Turnip 

Turkey  (edible  portion) . 

W 

Walnuts.  English 


Whey 

Whitefish  (edible  portion) . 


1  teaspoon 
(aver,  size) 
1  tbsp. 

1  serving 
1  lb. 
1  pair 
(med.  size) 


1  tbsp. 
1  cup 
1  medium 
(whole    to- 
mato) 
1  tbsp. 
1  cup 
1  tbsp. 

1  serving 
1  lb. 

1  serving 

1  serving 
1  lb. 


1  cup 
1  meat 

1  glass 

1  serving 
1  lb. 


Ozs. 


3»/i 
16 
8 


3i  2 
16 


.v 
16 


5»A 


Cms. 

1 
3 

10 

100 

454 
227 


15 

227 
142 


14 

180 

14 

100 
454 

100 

100 

454 


156 

1 

184 


100 
454 


c 

o 

0 

.0*0 

Cms. 

Cms. 

Cms. 

"3.5 
10.0 

16.8 
76.2 
38.1 

12.1 
54.8 
27.4 

0  2 
2.7 
0.5 

0.5 
0.3 

0.6 
9.0 
3.0 

0^7 

12.3 

158.4 

12.2 

17.8 
80.6 

10.3 
46.7 

1.3 

0.2 

8.1 

21.1 
95.7 

22.9 
103.9 

25.8 
.1 

98.8 
0.6 

25.1 
0.1 

18 

0.5 

9.3 

22  9 
103.8 

6  5 
29.4 

Calor- 
ies 

4 
14 

40 

176 
798 
399 


49 

640 

49 

164 
743 

39 

290 

1317 


1093 
7 


50 


150 
681 


The  weights  assigned  to  the  various  measurements  in  this  table  have  been  de- 
termined carefully,  but  are  the  results  of  a  limited  number  of  experiments,  and  hence 
must  be  regarded  as  only  approximate.  The  food  values  are  given  with  sufficient 
accuracy  to  be  within  the  limits  of  error  of  computations  made  on  average  analysis  of 
food-stuffs. 


71a  practical  dietetics 

food  values  according  to  individual 

SERVINGS l 

A 

Calories 

Almonds  (15%  car.) 10  gms.  (10  small) 63 

Artichokes  (15%  car.) 230  gms.  (1  small) 175 

Apple  (15%  car.)  raw ;    150  gms.  (1  medium) 70 

Apple  Sauce  (cooked) 1  oz.  (abt.  2  tbsp.) 30 

Apricots  (15%  car.)  dried,  stewed        34  cup,  23^  oz 100 

Arrowroot  (uncooked) 14  gms.  (1  level  tbsp.) 55 

Asparagus  (5%  car.)  canned  .  .  .   200  gms.  (5  stalks) 36 

B 

Brussels  Sprouts  (5%  car.) 65  gms.  (%  cup) 10 

Bacon  (raw) 100  gms.    (4  slices,  6  in.  long, 

2  in.  wide) 63C 

Bacon  (cooked) 100  gms.  (4   slices,    6   in.    long, 

2  in.  wide,  measured  be- 
fore cooking) 318 

Bananas  (20%  car.) 100  gms  (1  medium) 64 

Barley  (pearl) 27  gms.  (1  level  tbsp.) 90 

Barley  (crushed) 14  gms.  (1  level  tbsp.) 51 

Barley  (flour) 16  gms.  (1  level  tbsp.) 57 

Bass  (edible  portion) 100  gms.  (1  average  serving) . . .  100 

Beans,  String  (5%  car.),  fresh 

cooked. 70  gms.  {Y^  cup,  cut  in  small 

pieces,  3  heaping  tbsp.) .  .  25 

Beans  (20%  car.)  dried 100  gms.  i}A  cup.)  raw 350 

Bean  (flour) 8  gms.  (1  level  tbsp.) 28 

Black  Berries  (10%  car.) 100  gms.  (full  M  cup,  3  oz.). ...  59 

Beets  (10%  car.)  cooked 100  gms.   (1  serving,  2  heaping 

tbsp.) 37 

1  The  calory  values  given  in  the  table  are  approximate,  for  the  most  part,  but  are 
sufficiently  accurate  for  practical  purposes.  The  values  stated  are  based  upon  the  tables 
of  Atwater  and  Bryant,  Schall  and  Heisler,  Arnold's  Diet  Chart,  Dr.  W.  Coleman,  Hill 
and  Eckman;  and  from  the  preceding  table  given  in  this  book. 

For  list  of  foods  arranged  approximately  to  per  cent  of  carbohydrates  note  page  370. 

For  list  of  foods  in  order  of  their  carbohydrate  content  from  the  lowest  to  highest 
note  page  368. 

Five  per  cent  thrice  cooked  (boiled)  vegetables  are  considered  carbohydrate  free. 

Five  per  cent  vegetables  (cooked)  ' '  100  grams"  are  measured  "2  heaping  tbsp. ' '  al- 
though in  reality  the  weight  varies  slightly. 

For  list  of  five  per  cent  vegetables  note  page  370. 

Cereals  (cooked)  "13^  oz.  equals  50  calories"  are  measured  "1  heaping  tbsp." 


ESTIMATES  OF  FOOD  VALUES  71b 

B — (Continued) 

Cal 

car.) 100  gms.   (1   average  help 

heaping  tbsp  J 

Beef  Broth 100  gnu.  (1  serving) 1(5 

Beef  Juice 100  gins.  (1  serving) 25 

Beef,  Roast    1  slice  ty2  X  VA  X  3  g  in. .  .  89 

Beef  Steak  (porterhouse) 100  gms.  (1  serving) 238 

"       (rump) 100  gms.  (1  serving) 207 

(sirloin)  .  .  .  .' 100  gms.  (1  serving) 211 

l'       '*       (top  of  round) 100  gms.  (1  serving) 144 

Blue  Fish 100  gms.  (1  serving) 88 

Brandy 14  gms.  (1  tbsp.) 42 

Bran 71  gms.  (1  cup) 218 

Brazil  Nuts  (10^  car.)  shelled.       1  nut 4S 

Bread,  AYhite 33  gms.  (average  slice  3  X  3lA 

xy2) so 

"       (crumbs) 136  gms.  (1  cup) 362 

Boston  Brown 28.4  gms.  (1  small  slice) til 

"x  Gum  Gluten 28.4  gms.  (1  slice) 70 

Butter Moz.  (1  pat) Si) 

11      3  2  oz.  (1  level  tbsp.) 109 

"      2o  gms.  (114  in.  cube) 195 

Buttermilk 10  oz.  \y%  cups 100 

c 

Cabbage  (y~'c  car.)  raw 100  gms.  (1^  cups  shredded) .  .  30 

v  ,  car.)  cooked 100  gms.  (abt.  2  heaping  tbsp.).  35 

Carrol                  ur.)  cooked 100  gms.  (abt.  2  heaping  tbsp.).  45 

Cauliflower  (5^5  car.)  cooked..  .    100  gms.  (abt.  2  heaping  tbsp.).  33 

Celery  [5%  car.)  uncooked 100  gms.  (abt.  6  pieces  43  >  in. 

long  and  medium  thick- 

cop  1  in.  pieces)  17 

Cereals  (cooked)  l 1 ]  2  oz.  (1  heaping  tbsp.)  ....  50 

•    Neufchatel  1  cfaei        2      X  \}<>  x  l1  Q.  2M 

"       (American; 15  gnu     I  tbsp.) 62 

(        "         fresli  grated]        l                           124 

(Cottage) 1  Barring,  V/z  tbsp.) .  27 

Cherries  (5%    car.),    uncooked, 

stoned 100  gms.  (%  cup) 

1  Cereals  (cooked)  "111  oz.  equals  50  calories"  are  measured  "1  heaping  tbsp." 


71c  PRACTICAL  DIETETICS 

C — (Continued) 

Calories 

Chestnuts  (40%  car.)  uncooked    100  gms 243 

Chicken  (ed.  portion),  uncooked.  100  gms.  (1  serving) 108 

Chocolate  (unsweetened) 284  gms.  (1  square) 173 

Clam  Bouillon 100  gms.  (1  serving) 2 

Claret 14  gms.  (1  tbsp.) 10 

Cocoa  (uncooked) 7  gms.  (1  level  tbsp.) 35 

Cod,  Fresh  (edible  portion),  un- 
cooked    100  gms.  (1  serving) 70 

11     Salt  (boneless)  uncooked. .     57  gms.  (1  serving) 64 

Condensed  Milk  (sweetened) ...     11  gms.  (1  tsp.) 37 

Consomme 100  gms.  (1  serving) 12 

Corn  (20%  car.),  green 100  gms.  (1  serving,  \y2  cup) .  .  100 

Cornmeal  (raw) 10  gms.  (1  tbsp.) 33 

Cornstarch  (raw) 10  gms.  (1  tbsp.) 38 

Crackers 1  oz 114 

11         (Uneeda  Biscuit) 1  cracker 20 

"         (Water) 10  gms.  (1  large) 46 

Cream  (16%) 7  oz.  1  glass 359 

"       (18%) H  oz.  (1  tbsp.) 29 

"       (20%) 1  oz.  (2  tbsp.) 60 

"       (40%) V2oz.  (1  tbsp.) 57 

Cucumbers  (5%  car.)  raw 100  gms.  (12  slices  }/%  in.  thick, 

3^  in.  in  diameter) 12 

Cranberries  (10%  car.)  raw 100  gms 48 

Currants  (15%  car.),  raw 100  gms 57 

D 

Dates 227  gms.  (1  cup  with  stones) . . .  710 

Dandelion    Greens     (5%    car.) 

cooked 100  gms.  (1  average  helping,  2 

heaping  tbsp.) 23 

E 

Egg,     small      (whole,     without 

shell) VA  oz.  (45  gms.) 60 

"     small,  white 9/io  oz.  (25  gms.) 13 

"     small,  yolk K  oz.  (13  gms.) 48 

Egg,    medium    (whole,  without 

shell) 1 .7  oz.  (49  gms.) 73 

"       medium,  white 1 .09  oz.  (31  gms.) 18 


ESTIMATES  OF  FOOD  VALUES  71d 

E-(Continued)  ^^ 

medium,  yolk .06  oz.  (18  gms.) 55 

Egg,  large  (whole,  without  shell)         2  oz.  (57  gms.) 80 

••      large,  white 1^  oz.  (38  gms.) 30 

large,  yolk ;3  oz.  (19  gms.) 50 

Egg  (whole,  without  shell) 100  gms 147 

Egg  plant    .V  j  car.) 100  gms.  (3.5  oz.) 30 

English  Walnuts 20  gms.  (6  whole  meats) 140 


Farina  (uncooked) 10  gms.  (1  level  tbsp.) 34 

Farina  (cooked; 1}^  oz.  (1  heaping  tbsp.) ....  50 

Figs 28.4  gms.  (1  fig.) 95 

Filberts  (10%  car.),  shelled %  oz.  (1  tbsp.  chopped) 100 

Fowl  (edible  portion) 100  gms.  (1  serving) 224 

Fish  (average) 100  gms.  (1  average  helping) . . .  147 

Flour,  Barley 16  gms.  (1  level  tbsp.) 57 

Gum  Gluten 8  gms.  (1  level  tbsp.) 29 

Graham 8  gms.  (1  level  tbsp.) 34 

Rice 16  gms.  (1  level  tbsp.) 58 

Rye 8  gms.  (1  level  tbsp.) 28 

Wheat  (roller  process). . .       8  gms.  (1  level  tbsp.) 28 

Flounder,  Fresh 100  gms.  {3J4  oz.) 30 

G 

Gelatine  (granulated) 8.5  gms.  (1  level  tbsp.) 31 

Greens  (cooked) 100  gms.  (1  average  helping,  2 

heaping  tbsp.) 23 

Grape  Fruit  (5%  car.)  small 

purchased 300  gms.  (1  small) 131 

Grape  (malaga) 57  gms.  (1  doz.) 55 

Grapes 100  gms 71 

Grape  Juice 14  gms.  (1  tbsp.) 15 

"     227  gms.  (1  cup) 210 

B 

Haddock  Cedible  portion) 100  gms.  (1  serving) 72 

Halibut  (edible  portion, 100  gms.    1  serving) 121 

Ham.  Fresh  (lean) 100  gms.  (1  serving) 227 

Hickory  Nuts  (10%  car.),  shelled        ]/2  oz.  (1  tbsp.) 101 

Hominy  (uncooked) 11  gms.  (1  tbsp.    50 


7li.  PRACTICAL  DIETETICS 

H-(Continued)  Cahjies 

Hominy  (cooked) 1^  oz.  (1  heaping  tbsp.) ....  50 

Honey 1  oz.  (1  tbsp.) .92 

Huckleberries  (15%  car.) 100  gms 74 

J 

Jell-O 100  gms.  (1  box) 395 

"      16  gms.  (1  serving) 66 

K 

Kohl-rabi  (10%  car.),  fresh 98  gms.  {%  cup) 25 

Kumyss 487  gms.  (1  pt.) 164 

L 

Lactose  (see  Milk  Sugar) 9  gms.  (1  level  tbsp.) 36 

Lamb Slice  2X1^XM  ins.,  2  oz 100 

"      Chop 100  gms.  (1  serving) 329 

Lard 14  gms.  (1  level  tbsp.) 127 

Lager  Beer 250  c.c.  (1  glass,  l/2  pt.) 130 

Lemon  Juice  (10%  car.),  1  lemon     42  gms.  (3  tbsp.) 17 

"      (10%  car.) 100  gms.  (7  tbsp.) 39 

Lentil  Flour 9  gms.  (1  level  tbsp.) 31 

Lettuce  (5%  car.) 100  gms.    (10   or    12    medium- 
sized  leaves) 19 

Lima  Beans  (15%  car.)  canned.    130  gms.  i}/2  cup) 10C 

Lobster 100  gms.  (1  serving) 84 

M 

Macaroni  (20%  car.),  cooked. .  .    100  gms.  (%  cup) 63 

Mackerel,  Fresh  (edible  portion)   100  gms.  (1  serving) 139 

Mackerel,  Salted 100  gms.  (1  serving) 222 

Malted  Milk 14  gms.  (1  level  tbsp.) 59 

Mayonnaise 15  gms.  (1  tbsp.) 100 

Milk,  Whole 20  gms.  (1  tbsp.) 14 

.244  gms.  (1  cup,  Y2  pt.) 169 

Milk,  Skimmed 20  gms.  (1  tbsp.) 7 

244  gms.  (1  cup,  Y2  pt.) 89 

Molasses •.  .     27  gms.  (1  tbsp.) 77 

"       317  gms.  (1  cup,  y2  pt.) 909 

Muskmellons  (edible  portion).. .   100  gms 39 

Mushrooms  (10%  car.)  raw.  .  .  .  100  gms.  (11  one  in.  diameter).  45 

Mut  i  on  Chops 100  gms.  (1  serving) 362 


ESTIMATES  OF  FOOD  VALUES  71f 
x 

Calories 

Noodles,  Chiton  (uncookodV.  .  .    100  gms.  (1  cup) 434 

0 

( tatmeal  (granulated),  uncooked    14  gms.  (1  tbsp.) 55 

(cooked) 1  J/2  oz.  (1  heaping  tbsp.)  ....  50 

t  lata  (rolled),  uncooked 5  gms.  (1  tbsp.) 16 

(rolled),  cooked \l/2  oz.  (1  heaping  tbsp.)  ....  50 

Okra  (.">'  <  car.),  canned 115  gms.  (%  cup) 20 

Olive  OH Y2  oz.  15  gms.  (1  tbsp.)  ....  135 

(  Hives  (5'  J  car.) 14  gms.  (2  or  3  olives) 31 

Onions  (10 %  car.),  raw 100  gms.  (2  onions,  size  of  egg) . .  48 

"       (10rc  car.),  cooked 100  gms.  (2  onions,  size  of  egg). .  48 

Oranges  (10%  car.) 142  gms.  (1  medium) 77 

Orange  Juice  (10%  car.) 14  gms.  (1  tbsp.) 6 

"      (10%  car.) 227  gms.  (1  cup) 104 

Oysters 28.4  gms.  (2  oysters) 14 

"      100  gms.  (7  oysters) 49 


Parsnips  (15%  car.),  stewed..  .  .   100  gms.  (4 pieces,  3^  X  114  X 

Yz  ins.) :>7 

Peaches  (10%  car.),  fresh,  edible 

portion 100  gms.  (1  small) 41 

"       (10%  car.),  fresh,  edible 

portion 113  gms.  (1  medium) 50 

"       Dried  (uncooked) 85  gms.  (1  cup) 217 

Peach  Juice  (10%  car.) 14  gms.  (1  tbsp.) 5 

"    227  gms.  (1  cup) 80 

Peanut  Butter 10  gms.  (1  tbsp.) 100 

Peanuts  (l.v  ,  car.    Shelled  ....   100  gms.  (%  cup) 554 

Peanuts  (15%  car.),  as  purchased    1~>  nuts :;:; 

Peas  (15%  car.),  green,  raw. .  .      100  urns.  (2  heaping  tbsp '.>«.* 

Dried KM)  gms 362 

lour  (raw) U  gins.  (1  level  tbsp.) 

Pears  (15%  car.),  edible  portion.  100  gms.   (2  pear  halves    +  2 

\h<\).  of  juice) 65 

Pecans  (10'  [  car.  .  shelled   .         LOO  gms.    :; ,'  cup) 356 

Pineapple  (10%  car.  .  fresh,  edi- 
ble portion. . .                     100 gms.  (^ sliced  15 


71g  PRACTICAL  DIETETICS 

P— (Continued) 

Calories 

Pineapple  (canned) 85  gms.  (1  slice) 130 

Plums  (20%  car.),  edible  portion  100  gms.  (3  large) 86 

Pork,  Loin 40  gms 100 

Pork,  Tenderloin 100  gms 200 

Port  Wine  (10%  alcohol) 14  gms.  (1  tbsp.) 10 

Potatoes     (20%     car.),     white, 

baked 100  gms.  (1  medium,  size  of  large 

egg) 83 

Potatoes     (20%     car.),     white 

(mashed) 100  gms.  (2  rounding  tbsp.) 83 

"         Sweet 100  gms.  {Y2  medium) 123 

Prunes 28  gms.  (3  prunes) 72 

Prunes 100  gms.  (%  cup) 308 

Pumpkin  (10%  car.) 63^  oz.  (1  cup) 100 

Q 

Quail  (uncooked) 100  gms.  (1  serving) 159 

R 

Radishes  (5%  car.) 12  red  button,  125  gms 34 

Raisins 9  gms.  (1  doz.) 29 

Raisins 100  gms.  (1  scant  cup) 348 

Raspberries  (15%  car.) 100  gms.  (%  cup) 53 

Raspberry  Juice 113  gms.  (^  cup) 45 

Rhubarb  (5%  car.),  raw 28  gms.  (34  c.  in  1  in.  pieces)..  6 

Rice  (raw) 15  gms.  (1  tbsp.) 50 

Rice  (boiled) 50  gms.  (6  tbsp.  level) 50 

Rum 14  gms.  (1  tbsp.) 38 

S 

Salmon  (edible  portion),  fresh.  .    100  gms.  (1  serving) 203 

Saltines 3  gms.  (1  wafer) 15 

Sardines 100  gms.  (28  sardines,  sml.  box)  269 

Shad  (edible  portion) 100  gms.  (1  serving) 161 

Shad  Roe 100  gms.  (1  serving) 128 

Sherry 14  gms.  (1  tbsp) 13 

Spinach  (5%  car.) 100  gms.  (2  heaping  tbsp.) 23 

Squabs 100  gms.  (1  serving) 391 

Squash  (10%  car.) 100  gms.  (2  heaping  tbsp.) 46 

Strawberries  (10%  car.) 100  gms.  (small  serving) 38 


ES  TIM  A  TES  OF  FOOD  VALUES  7 1 1 1 

S— (Continued)  Calories 

Strawberry  Juice 100  gms.  (}£  cup) 19 

Suet 14  gms.  (1  level  tbsp.) 107 

Sugar  (granulated) 5  gms.  (1  level  tbsp.) 60 

Sugar  {\oi\{) 7.6  gms.  (1  large  lump) 30 

Sugar  (loaf) 3.8  gms.  (1  small  lump) 16 

Sugar  (powdered) 12  gms.  (1  level  tbsp.) 48 

Sugar  of  Milk  ■ 1  gm.  (^  tsp.) 4 

Bugar  of  Milk  ■ 9  gms.  (1  full  level  tbsp.) 36 

Sweetbreads 100  gms.  (1  serving) 176 

Sauerkraut  (5^?  car.) 115  gms.  (%  cup,  packed) 30 

T 

Tomatoes  (5%  car.)  raw 100  gms.  (1  small,  2  in.  dia.) ...  20 

Tomatoes  (5%  car.)  cooked. .  .  .  100  gms.  (23^  heaping  tbsp.). . .  20 

Tapioca,  pearl  (raw) 14  gms.  (1  level  tbsp.) 49 

Tapioca,  Minute  (raw) 14  gms.  (1  level  tbsp.) 49 

Toast one  average  slice  of  bread. . .  80 

Trout  (edible  portion) 100  gms.  (1  serving) 164 

Turnips  (10%  car.)  cooked 100  gms.  (2  heaping  tbsp.) 39 

Turkey 100  gms.  (1  serving) 290 

V 

Veal 23^oz.  (slice,2  X  2%  X  Vs'ws.)     100 

Vegetables 2 

W 

Walnuts,  English  (15%  car.) ...    1  gm.  (1  whole  meat) 7 

Walnuts,  English  (15%  car.) ...    100  gms.  (100  whole  meats) 700 

Water  Cress  (5%  car.) 10  gms.  {%  cup) 7 

Whey 184  gms.  (1  glass) 50 

Whisky  (43' ,  alcohol) 50  c.c 152 

White  Fish  (edible  portion) ....    100  gms.  (1  serving) 150 

1  For  practical  purposes,  the  milk  sugar  may  be  measured  in  a  medicine  glass.  Each 
measured  ounce  equals  18  grams  in  weight.  If  milk  sugar  is  added  to  water  in  the 
proportion  of  24  grams  to  3  c.c.  and  the  water  brought  to  the  boiling  point  the  milk 
sugar  is  completely  dissolved,  i  Such  a  solution  made  daily  or  just  before  use  will  be 
found  convenient  in  administering  the  diet.  (Coleman) 
1  Vegetables  are  listed  under  their  various  names. 

Five  per  cent  vegetables  (cooked)  "100  grams"  are  measured  "2  heaping  table- 
spoons," although  weight  in  reality  varies  slightly. 

Five  per  cent  ' '  thrice  cooked ' '  (boiled)  vegetables  are  considered  carbohydrate  free. 

For  list  of  5  per  cent  vegetables  note  page  370. 

For  list  of  vegetables  and  other  foods  in  order  of  their  carbohydrate  content  (from 
the  lowest  to  highest)  note  page  368. 

For  list  of  vegetables  and  other  foods  arranged  approximately  according  to  per  cent 
of  carbohydrates  note  page  370. 


CHAPTER  IV 
FEEDING  THE  SICK 

GENERAL   RULES 

In  the  treatment  of  disease  there  are  few  questions  which" 
have  to  be  considered  so  often  in  the  daily  routine  of  practice 
as  those  which  concern  the  proper  support  and  nourishment  of 
the  patient. 

A  good  nurse  will  never  exceed  or  depart  from  the  phy- 
sician's instructions ;  but  there  are  occasions  when  her  posses- 
sion of  accurate,  even  if  limited,  knowledge  on  the  subject 
of  chemical  and  physiological  action  of  food  will  enable  a 
physician  to  give  more  definite  directions,  greatly  assisting 
him  in  the  performance  of  his  duties,  and  adding  to  the  com- 
fort and  well-being  of  the  patient. 

Physician's  Directions.  The  nurse's  directions  in  refer- 
ence to  feeding  her  patient  should  be  written,  stating  how 
much  food  may  be  given,  its  form,  preparation  and  time  of 
serving.  In  pneumonia,  typhoid  and  all  acute  serious  con- 
ditions, a  record  of  all  these  details  should  be  kept,  also  a 
record  of  the  quantity  of  fluid  and  medicine  taken. 

The  nurse  has  a  far  better  opportunity  than  the  physician 
to  judge  of  all  the  conditions  of  the  patient's  digestion,  and 
his  likes  and  dislikes  for  different  foods,  and  she  should  not 
fail  to  report  them  to  the  physician  in  charge  and  under- 
stand very  definitely  to  what  extent  she  is  to  be  permitted  to 
humor  her  patient,  and  substitute  one  form  of  food  or  drink 
for  another. 

It  may  happen  from  lack  of  care  or  indefinite  instruction, 
that  the  food  served  will  neutralize  the  effect  of  the  med- 
icine, either  by  overfeeding,  or  bv  irregularities  in  feeding, 

72 


FEEDIXa  THE  SICK  73 

which  disturb  digestion  and  interfere  with  the  beneficial  ef- 
fect of  the  medicine. 

Those  who  are  ill  are  often  allowed  to  drift  into  critical 
conditions  through  not  being  properly  supplied  with  such 
nutritive  material  as  their  enfeebled  powers  can  digest. 
Many  have  perished  because  those  around  them  did  not  know 
how  to  feed  them,  and  either  withheld  food  altogether,  or 
gave  that  which  was  unsuitable,  through  ignorance.  Even 
when  the  patient  is  confined  to  bed  and  prevented  from  tak- 
ing any  kind  of  voluntary  exercise,  he  still  requires  energy  for 
the  involuntary  action  of  heart,  lungs,  and  the  other  processes 
of  living,  and  healthy  nutrition  must  be  provided  for  by  a 
supply  of  suitable  food. 

Often  the  nurse  may  conscientiously  serve  one  form  of 
food  ordered,  offering  it  in  spite  of  the  patient's  dislike  and 
nausea  with  the  result  of  half  starving  him.  When  her  in- 
structions have  not  been  specific,  or  have  not  provided  for 
emergencies,  she  should  make  it  a  point  to  have  them  clearly 
understood  at  the  next  visit  of  the  physician. 

To  be  able  to  carry  out  these  instructions  and  offer  nourish- 
ment intelligently,  a  thorough  practical  knowledge  of  dietetics 
is  necessary,  and  should  be  the  foundation  of  every  nurse's 
training.  If  we  wish  to  succeed  in  avoiding  nausea,  vomit- 
ing, loss  of  strength,  and  even  loss  of  life,  we  must  learn  to 
offer  food  to  the  patient  in  a  suitable  form,  in  the  quantity 
and  at  the  times  suited  to  his  digestive  power,  and  so  adapt 
his  food  to  his  capabilities. 

This  subject  has  been  so  ably  treated  by  Dr.  Thompson 
(Practical  Dietetics,  2d  ed.)  in  his  chapter,  "Administration 
of  Food  for  the  Sick/'  that  permission  has  been  asked,  and 
kindly  granted,  to  use  extracts  from  that  chapter;  also,  by 
the  kindness  of  Mrs.  Ellen  H.  Richards,  quotations  have  been 
made  from  the  article,  "  Nourishment  in  Acute  Disease,"  from 
the  "  Rumford  Kitchen  Leaflets." 

Feeding  in  Acute  Disease.  The  preparation  of  food  for 
those  who  are  seriously  ill  is  a  matter  of  vital  importance, 
for  the  life  of  the  patient  often  depends  either   upon   the 


74  PRACTICAL  DIETETICS 

maintenance  of  strength  during  the  acute  period  of  the  dis- 
ease or  on  the  recovery  of  power  during  convalescence.  Since 
acute  disease  is  accompanied  by  fever,  we  must  consider  the 
effect  of  feeding  in  cases  where  the  temperature  is  febrile  in 
character;  also  the  amount  of  food,  its  quality  and  quantity, 
together  with  other  conditions  affecting  its  absorption. 

In  acute  disease  accompanied  by  fever,  what  are  the  con- 
ditions? The  body  loses  weight,  urea  is  increased  and  car- 
bonic acid  and  water  are  excreted  in  larger  amounts  than  in 
health.  All  of  this  loss  is  not  dangerous  if  permitted  to  go 
on  for  a  few  days  only,  and  if  the  amounts  do  not  exceed 
certain  limits.  But  to  replace  these  losses  we  are  at  a  dis- 
advantage as  regards  the  ability  of  the  system  to  assimilate 
food.  In  fevers  the  appetite  is  small,  or  may  be  completely 
lost.  The  saliva,  the  gastric  juice,  pancreatic  fluid,  the  bile, 
are  less  efficient  in  action  or  diminished  in  amount  during 
high  temperature. 

The  stomach  is  very  sensitive,  in  part,  perhaps,  through 
sympathy  with  the  increased  sensitiveness  of  the  nervous  sys- 
tem as  a  whole.  If  there  is  much  hyperesthesia  of  the  diges- 
tive tract,  as  in  typhoid,  in  peritonitis,  in  dysentery  or  gastro- 
enteritis, one  must  be  careful  not  to  give  too  much  food  at 
a  time,  and  it  should  be  in  a  liquid  form  and  partially  pre- 
digested.     Note  Typhoid  Diet,  page  337. 

Evidences  of  Digestion.  Our  attention  should  be  devoted 
not  only  to  what  is  put  into  the  alimentary  canal,  but  also  to 
what  goes  out.  For  instance,  if  curds  of  undigested  milk 
are  found  in  the  stools  of  a  typhoid  patient,  the  quantity  of 
milk  should  be  diminished,  or  it  should  be  diluted. 

Every  careful  observer  of  the  sick  will  agree  that  many 
patients  are  starved,  simply  from  the  want  of  attention  to 
the  means  which  alone  make  it  possible  for  them  to  take 
food.  For  example,  if  the  patient  has  a  fever  with  remis- 
sion and  intermission,  it  is  of  the  first  importance  to  remem- 
ber that  the  ability  to  digest  food  at  these  intermissions  is 
greater,  and  it  is  then  that  the  most  nourishing  portions  of 
diet  should  be  given. 


FEEDING  THE  SICK  75 

It  must  be  borne  in  mind  that,  contrary  to  the  prevalent 
notion,  the  increase  of  body  heat  is  not  entirely  responsible 
for  the  wasting  of  the  fever  patient.  The  emaciation  is  due 
partly  to  the  inability  to  receive  and  digest  the  food,  which 
in  turn  arises  from  the  irritable  state  of  the  stomach  and 
bowels  and  the  defective  secretion  of  the  digestive  fluids. 

It  is  the  administration  of  unsuitable  food  that  must  be 
guarded  against,  and  also  the  giving  of  nourishment  in 
quantities  and  at  times  unsuited  to  the  digestive  powers  of 
the  patient.  All  food  is  changed  into  liquid  in  the  process 
of  digestion  before  it  can  be  absorbed  into  the  blood.  Liquid 
food,  therefore,  is  given  to  the  very  sick  because  it  can  be 
digested  with  the  smallest  amount  of  labor  to  the  body. 

Predigested  milk  possesses  the  decided  advantage  in  that 
it  aids  the  assimilation  of  the  milk  without  adding  to  its 
bulk,  as  do  lime  water  and  other  substances. 

By  diluting  milk,  stimulants  and  gruels  too  much,  the 
quantity  of  the  fluid  is  so  great  that  the  patient  soon  tires 
of  swallowing,  and  stops  before  enough  nourishment  has  been 
obtained.  One  should  not  give  what  cannot  be  digested,  nor 
less  than  can  be  assimilated.  So  the  attendant  must  have  a 
constant  watch  over  the  condition  of  the  patient's  powers  of 
digestion,  and  it  is  necessary  for  her  to  know  how  to  choose 
such  variety  in  the  diet  as  to  include  both  what  is  palatable 
and  what  will  afford  a  proper  amount  of  nourishment. 

The  Appetite.  As  the  appetite  of  the  sick  often  requires 
tempting,  the  greatest  pains  should  be  taken  in  the  prepara- 
tion of  the  invalid's  food.  The  lack  of  desire  for  food  may 
be  due  merely  to  defective  cooking,  to  the  serving  of  meals  at 
inopportune  moments,  or  to  the  fact  that  the  food  selected 
is  not  to  the  patient's  liking  in  kind,  flavor,  or  appearance. 
A  desire  for  food  may  exist,  but  not  for  the  particular  food 
offered,  and  it  is  the  province  of  the  nurse  to  differentiate. 

Punctuality  in  serving  meals  should  be  carefully  observed, 
for  an  appetite  ready  at  the  accustomed  hour  may  fail  if  the 
meal  is  delayed.  There  is  much  unconscious  habit  in  re- 
gard to  eating.     Time  for  cooking  food  should  be  carefully 


76  PRACTICAL  DIETETICS 

considered  with  regard  to  the  time  for  serving.  Many  foods 
properly  cooked  are  spoiled  by  standing,  which  if  served 
promptly  would  be  delicious.  The  rule  of  serving  food  at 
stated  intervals  should  be  observed  for  the  conscious  as  well 
as  the  unconscious  or  semi-unconscious  patient. 

Quality  and  Quantity  of  Food.  All  foods  supplied  should 
be  as  pure  and  fresh  as  possible.  Hence  for  the  sick  it  is 
desirable  to  select  the  best  quality  obtainable. 

The  amount  should  be  regulated  by  the  physician.  When 
this  is  not  done,  care  must  be  taken,  on  the  one  hand  to  see 
that  sufficient  is  eaten,  which  often  necessitates  tempting  the 
appetite;  and  on  the  other  to  avoid  overindulgence  if  the 
patient  is  voracious  or  has  a  fancy  for  certain  articles  of 
which  large  amounts  are  likely  to  be  harmful. 

A  well  man,  lying  quietly  in  bed,  requires  from  1600  to 
2000  calories  per  day,  and  if  the  body  is  being  wasted  by 
disease,  he  may  need  a  great  deal  more.  During  conva- 
lescence, if  the  body  has  lost  weight,  food  must  be  given 
for  rebuilding,  in  addition  to  the  ordinary  daily  need. 

Temperature  of  Food.  The  temperature  of  the  food  served 
is  exceedingly  important,  as  it  has  a  marked  influence  upon 
digestion.  As  a  rule,  foods  to  be  served  "hot"  should 
neither  be  served  lukewarm  nor  too  hot.  Serve  in  hot  dishes 
and  cover  in  transit.  Cold  food  should  be  served  neither 
lukewarm  nor  ice  cold.  Under  many  conditions  food  at  ex- 
treme temperatures  interferes  with  digestion  and  absorption. 

Details  in  Feeding.  The  patient  should  be  saved  from 
thinking  as  well  as  from  physical  exertion,  and  it  is  unwise 
to  ask  him  what  he  would  like  to  eat,  for  it  is  often  the  un- 
expected that  pleases.  Personal  idiosyncrasies  should  be  con- 
sidered; for  some  foods  easy  of  digestion,  if  repugnant  to 
the  patient,  may  prove  nauseating  and  be  rejected  or  disturb 
digestion. 

Only  a  small  quantity  of  food  should  be  given  at  one  time 
so  that  the  digestive  organs  may  not  be  overtaxed.  It  is 
much  better  to  do  this  often  than  to  give  too  much  at  one 
time.     A  tablespoonful  of  nourishment  every  half  hour  may 


FEEDIXG  THE  SICK  7? 

be  retained  and  digested,  and  do  the  patient  good,  when  if 
a  larger  amount  were  given  the  stomach  would  reject  it. 

The  majority  of  weak  patients  are  unable  to  take  food  of 
any  solid  kind  before  eleven  o'clock  in  the  morning,  yet 
before  that  time  comes  they  are  apt  to  become  exhausted. 
This  would  not  be  likely  to  occur  if  a  spoonful  of  some  liquid 
nourishment  or  stimulant  ordered  by  the  physician  were  given 
every  hour  or  two,  from  the  early  morning  up  to  the  time 
for  taking  the  solid  food,  which  the  patient  would  then 
probably  be  able  to  do  by  noon. 

All  noise  in  the  preparation  of  food  and  smell  of  cook- 
ing should  be  kept  from  the  sick  room.  The  nurse  should 
never  eat  her  meal  or  taste  the  patient's  food  in  his  presence, 
and  should  always  have  a  cheerful  manner  and  a  cleanly, 
tidy  appearance.  These  things  have  much  effect  upon  the 
patient's  appetite. 

Bathing  and  Cleansing  the  Mouth.  When  possible,  it  is 
well  to  bathe  the  patient's  face  and  hands  before  offering  a 
meal.  The  mouth  should  be  rinsed  each  time  after  eating 
with  pure  water,  or  diluted  borax  water  (two  teaspoonfuls 
to  a  tumbler  of  water).  This  takes  away  the  after-taste  of 
the  food  and  he  is  less  apt  to  tire  of  it. 

The  mouth  should  be  kept  thoroughly  cleansed,  for  if  the 
lips  are  allowed  to  become  parched  and  sour,  the  patient  will 
refuse  nourishment  which  he  might  otherwise  take.  When  a 
patient  cannot  rinse  his  own  mouth  it  must  be  frequently 
cleansed  by  the  nurse  with  a  swab  of  fresh  cotton,  fastened  to 
a  small  flexible  stick.  A  tongue  scraper  made  of  a  whale- 
bone bent  to  a  loop  may  be  used  before  serving  the  food; 
thus  the  taste  nerves  will  be  uncovered  and  the  appetite  im- 
proved. 

Time  and  Position  for  Feeding.  When  the  patient  is  first 
allowed  to  sit  up  for  half  an  hour,  it  is  well  to  utilize  this 
time  for  giving  the  principal  meal  of  the  day,  which  is  likely 
to  be  eaten  with  more  relish,  and  perhaps  better  digested  in 
consequence.  If  the  patient  is  only  allowed  to  partially  sit 
up  in  bed,  the  nurse  should  see  that  the  position  is  com- 


78  PRACTICAL  DIETETICS 

fortable,  and  that  the  food  tray  does  not  cramp  the  arms  and 
legs,  taking  care  that  no  crumbs  get  into  the  bed. 

Sleep  and  Feeding.  The  awakening  of  a  patient  to  take 
nourishment  depends  upon  his  need  of  the  nutriment  and 
upon  his  ability  to  go  to  sleep  again.  In  serious  cases  it 
should  be  given  at  stated  intervals  if  the  patient  drops  to 
sleep  easily  after  taking  it.  Some  patients,  however,  are  an- 
noyed by  being  awakened  and  cannot  sleep  again.  In  such 
cases  it  may  be  that  the  sleep  will  be  more  beneficial  than 
food. 

Feeding  the  Helpless  Patient.  The  effort  of  sitting  up 
may  become  fatiguing  to  the  invalid  and  so  destroy  his  appe- 
tite before  the  meal  is  half  done,  or  he  may  not  be  able  to 
feed  himself,  or  to  raise  his  head.  In  such  cases  the  diffi- 
culty can  be  obviated  by  placing  the  hand  beneath  the  pillow 
and  raising  both  together  gently. 

In  feeding  fluids  at  these  times  always  serve  in  small 
tumbler,  not  more  than  two-thirds  filled;  see  that  swallows 
are  not  taken  during  inspiration,  and  that  each  mouthful  is 
swallowed  before  another  is  offered.  In  case  the  head  cannot 
be  raised,  food  may  be  given  by  means  of  a  glass  tube  or  a 
feeding  cup. 

Feeding  the  Unconscious  Patient.  The  feeding  of  uncon- 
scious patients  demands  especial  care.  They  should  be  given 
only  liquid  nourishment,  and  fed  with  a  spoon,  or  through 
a  catheter.  If  the  jaws  are  set,  a  medicine  dropper  may  be 
utilized;  not  over  a  teaspoonful  should  be  given  at  once,  and 
the  nurse  must  be  sure  it  is  swallowed  before  she  gives  more. 
In  the  case  of  comatose  children,  or  young  infants,  the  nour- 
ishment may  be  poured  into  the  nostril  in  place  of  the  mouth. 
Feeding  with  the  stomach  tube  is  sometimes  resorted  to,  when 
nasal  feeding  is  not  feasible. 

Forced  Feeding.  Forced  feeding  consists  in  introducing 
various  liquid  foods,  as  milk,  eggs,  meat-juice  or  extracts 
into  the  stomach  by  way  of  the  nose  or  directly  through  the 
mouth  by  means  of  a  stomach  tube.  This  is  seldom  required 
of  the  nurse,  but  is  usually  done  by  the  physician  himself. 


FEEDING  TUE  SICK  79 

This  method  is  employed  when  the  unconscious  patient  expe- 
riences difficulty  in  swallowing;  in  gastric  irritability;  when 
a  patient  is  unable  to  take  sufficient  food,  owing  to  loss  of 
appetite  and  disgust  for  food;  and  also  in  case  of  a  refrac- 
tory patient  who  refuses  to  eat. 

Nasal  Feeding.  In  nasal  feeding  a  nasal  tube  is  em- 
ployed or  in  case  of  infant  a  catheter.  Have  either  well 
oiled  and  passed  gently  through  the  nose  into  the  oesophagus 
and  then  into  the  stomach.  Before  pouring  in  the  food  wait 
a  moment  to  see  that  the  tube  has  not  entered  the  larynx. 

Use  of  the  Stomach  Tube.  The  jaws  must  be  kept  open. 
In  children  without  teeth,  the  finger  may  be  employed;  in 
grown  persons  a  mouth  gag  or  a  roller  bandage  may  be  held 
between  the  teeth.  The  tube  should  be  moistened,  passed 
into  the  pharynx  and  thence  rapidly  into  the  stomach.  If 
these  two  precautions  are  not  observed,  contraction  of  the 
muscles  may  occur,  preventing  the  tube  from  entering  the 
oesophagus.  In  passing  the  tube  into  the  oesophagus,  hold 
it  well  back  from  the  end.  When  the  tube  is  satisfactorily 
introduced,  place  a  funnel  in  the  free  end  and  pour  liquid 
nourishment  slowly  down  the  side  of  the  funnel  until  the 
tube  is  filled,  and  the  air  in  tube  is  expelled;  this  care  pre- 
vents the  air  in  tube  entering  the  stomach.  In  removing  the 
tube,  it  should  be  withdrawn  rapidly  in  order  not  to  excite 
vomiting.  In  some  cases  the  physician  orders  the  stomach 
washed  out  before  introducing  the  food.  When  it  is  neces- 
sary to  take  special  precautions  to  prevent  regurgitation  of 
the  food,  the  ribs  may  be  tickled  to  prevent  contraction  of 
the  diaphragm. 

Rectal  Feeding.  This  form  of  alimentation  is  necessary 
when  the  stomach  cannot  retain  food.  It  is  based  on  the  fact 
that  the  rectal  mucous  membrane,  while  it  possesses  no  di- 
gestive faculty,  is  able  to  absorb  certain  classes  of  nutriment. 
These  include  among  the  carbohydrates,  sugars;  among  pro- 
teins, the  native  albumin  as  well  as  the  end  products  of  pro- 
tein digestion.  The  latter  are  believed  to  be  much  more 
absorbable  than  the  first  products  (albumoses  and  peptones). 


80  PRACTICAL  DIETETICS 

Soluble  starch  (dextrin)  is  doubtless  absorbable,  but  un- 
changed starch  and  fats  can  hardly  be  taken  up.  It  is  prob- 
able that  finely  emulsified  fats  if  thrown  well  up  into  the 
colon  are  absorbable  to  some  extent.  Although  we  cannot 
understand  why  certain  substances  nourish  the  patient,  since 
they  are  theoretically  not  absorbable,  they  seem  in  some  man- 
ner to  be  utilized,  even  when  merely  thrown  into  the  rectum. 
As  far  as  possible  we  should  employ  substances  which  we 
know  positively  to  be  capable  of  absorption;  but  in  rectal 
feeding  for  a  long  period  it  is  sometimes  necessary  to  use  a 
great  variety  of  formulae,  making  it  out  of  the  question  to 
confine  ourselves  to  the  few  articles  which  are  theoretically 
best  suited  for  the  purpose. 

The  rectum  may  be  intolerant  to  almost  any  form  of  enema ; 
even  if  retained  for  some  time,  it  may  be  rejected  without 
apparent  change.  Under  the  most  favorable  circumstances, 
at  least  three-fourths  of  the  quantity  injected  will  come 
away  with  the  regular  evacuation  of  the  bowels.  The  amount 
of  energy  actually  supplied  must  be  far  below  the  theoretical 
demands  of  the  body.  In  some  cases,  it  is  of  course  possible 
to  nourish  the  patient  partly  by  the  mouth  and  partly  by 
rubbing  a  small  amount  of  fatty  matter  into  the  skin.  Some 
of  the  most  available  substances,  such  as  solutions  of  sugar, 
are  naturally  irritating  to  the  rectum. 

It  is  possible  to  keep  a  patient  alive  for  weeks  and  even 
months  by  rectal  feeding,  but  in  many  cases  this  resource  for 
one  reason  or  another  fails  outright  to  do  what  is  expected  of 
it.  Hence  we  cannot  be  too  careful  as  to  technique  and 
choice  of  material  used.  Of  natural  substances,  milk  and 
eggs  have  been  very  freely  used.  The  albumin  and  sugar  in 
the  milk  are  probably  utilized.  In  an  emulsion  of  eggs,  the 
native  albumin  is  doubtless  the  constituent  which  nourishes 
the  patient.  We  cannot  be  sure  of  the  absorption  of  the 
fatty  matter  of  the  milk  and  eggs.  Both  these  substances  are 
relatively  non-irritating.  Peptonized  milk  answers  well  in 
some  cases.  It  is  best  to  carry  on  the  peptonization  for  a 
long  period,  until  the  end  products  of  digestion  form,  pep- 


FEEDING  THE  SICK  81 

tones  themselves  being  often  irritating.  Solutions  of  glucose 
and  dextrin  are  useful,  alone  or  combined  with  other  in- 
gredients. For  example,  eggs  may  be  combined  with  glucose, 
or  plain  milk  with  dextrin.  For  variety,  any  of  the  pre- 
digested  foods,  whether  these  come  in  solution  or  dried,  and 
even  bouillon  and  beef-tea  may  be  tried.  Starch  emulsion 
is  soothing  in  the  rectum  and  may  be  utilized  if  first  mixed 
with  diastase. 

The  technique  is  most  important.  The  rectum  should 
first  be  cleaned  by  a  high  injection  of  decinormal  saline 
solution,  after  which  no  attempt  should  be  made  to  give  a 
nourishing  injection  for  at  least  an  hour.  It  may  be  neces- 
sary for  the  physician  to  treat  the  rectum  if  hemorrhoids  or 
great  irritability  exists.  The  patient's  hips  should  be  raised 
higher  than  the  head  to  aid  in  retaining  the  enema.  A  tube 
specially  designed  for  the  purpose  should  be  used,  the  enema 
being  at  body  heat  and  allowed  to  flow  in  by  gravity  from 
a  funnel.  The  amount  injectcl  should  never  exceed  8  oz. 
and  the  enema  cannot  be  repeated  oftener  than  every  6 
hours  unless  the  quantity  is  small.  As  a  rule,  the  smaller  the 
enema  the  more  frequently  it  may  be  used.  After  an  injec- 
tion the  patient  should  be  kept  perfectly  quiet. 

Stimulants  like  black  coffee  and  whisky  are  often  given  by 
the  rectum,  the  whisky  requiring  dilution  with  two  parts 
water.  Wine  is  sometimes  used  for  the  purpose.  Stimulat- 
ing and  nutritive  enemata  may  be  combined. 

Injections  of  normal  salt  solution,  seltzer  water,  etc.,  are 
sometimes  used  to  supply  the  body  with  fluids  and  quench 
thirst. 

Useful  additions  to  enemata  comprise  a  little  salt  or  sodium 
bicarbonate  or  a  little  starch  emulsion ;  at  times  a  few  drops 
of  laudanum  are  of  value  in  aiding  retention. 

One  should  not  be  discouraged  by  early  failure,  as  it  is 
possible  for  tolerance  to  be  established. 


82  PRACTICAL  DIETETICS 


FOBMTTLAE   FOE   RECTAL   FEEDING 

I.  Peptone-milk,    Von    Leube 

250  c.  c.  milk   =170  Cal. 

60  c.  c.  peptone     =100  Cal. 

II.  Egg-milk,  Von  Leube 

250  c.  c.  milk    =170  Cal. 

3  eggs    =200  Cal. 

3  gms.  salt. 

III.  Starch-milk,  Von  Leube 

250  c.  c.  milk    =170  Cal. 

70  gms.  starch     =  250  Cal. 

IV.  Sugar-milk,  Von  Leube 

250  c  c.  milk    =170  Cal. 

50  gms.  grape  sugar    =  250  Cal. 

V.  Pancreas,  Von  Leube 

75  gm.   pancreas   substance    =  300  Cal. 

225  gm.  beef    =300  Cal. 

35  gms.   fat    =350  Cal. 

(This  enema,  in  semi-solid  condition,  is  introduced  into  the  rectum 
and  allowed  to  digest  therein.  A  piston  syringe  with  a  wide  nozzle 
is  required.) 

"Nutrient  Enema: 

Peptonised  Milk  5  *v  *°  3  v*    ( * our 

Whites  of  two  eggs  to  six  ounces ) 

Above  used  Per  Rectum  every  two  to  four  hours. 

Nutrient  Enema: 

Milk    5*   (one  ounce) 

German  Seltzer  H20 3  iv   (four  ounces) 

Used  in  Icterus,  every  two  hours. 

Nutrient  Enemata — Malted  Milk. 

IMssolve  from  three  to  four  heaping  teaspoonfuls  of  Horlick's 
malted  milk  powder  in  one-half  pint  of  water,  to  which  add  one-half 
teaspoonful  of  salt.  Use  at  body  temperature,  or  two  or  three  de- 
grees  higher. 

The  white  of  one  egg  may  be  incorporated  if  desired. 

Four  to  six  ounces  used  per  rectum  every  two  to  four  hours. 

Stimulating  Enema: 

Black  Coffee   3  iv   (four  ounces) 

Whiskey     3    ii   (two    ounces) 


FEEDING  TEE  SICK  83 

Salt  Solution: 

Sodium   chloride 3  i    (one  drachm) 

Aquae    O  i    (one  pint) 

Use  of  Alcohol  in  the  Sick  Room.  The  nurse  may  be  re- 
quired to  exercise  her  own  judgment  at  times  in  the  emer- 
gency use  of  alcoholics  in  the  sick  room.  This  necessity  is 
most  likely  to  occur  with  those  patients  having  incurable 
maladies  where  the  question  of  harm  to  the  organism  or  to 
the  morals  of  the  individual  does  not  come  into  consideration. 
Consumptives  often  show  a  Temarkable  tolerance  to  alcohol, 
and  receive  a  notable  stimulating  effect  from  it,  and  it 
sometimes  happens  that  an  eggnog  or  milk  punch  will  enable 
an  advanced  consumptive  to  dress  and  make  his  toilet  in  the 
morning  when  otherwise  he  would  have  to  lie  in  bed.  This 
is  true  to  a  less  extent  of  some  other  incurable  diseases. 
Severe  acute  or  subacute  conditions  in  which  an  alcoholic 
stimulant  might  require  to  be  given  in  preference  to  any 
other  for  its  emergency  effect  in  averting  unlooked-for  cardiac 
failure  comprise  pyemia,  septicemia  and  diphtheria.  In  the 
same  class  belong  certain  cases  of  acute  poisoning  due  to 
mistakes  or  suicidal  intent,  such  as  those  due  to  aconite  and 
similar  heart  poisons.  The  propriety  of  giving  alcoholics 
after  simple  collapse  or  syncope  when  no  serious  disease  is 
present  depends  upon  the  nature  of  the  case  and  whether 
other  stimulants  are  available. 

Alcohol  should  perhaps  never  be  given  even  in  emergencies 
to  subjects  with  neurosis  or  insanity  or  to  victims  of  severe 
disease  of  the  gastrointestinal  organs. 

Keeping  Ice  in  the  Sick  Room.  The  very  best  plan  is  to 
have  a  small  refrigerator  or  a  Japanese  ice  box,  which  may 
be  had  for  a  few  dollars.  If  these  little  luxuries  are  im- 
possible, put  the  ice  in  a  deep  bowl,  cover  it  with  a  plate, 
and  place  the  bowl  between  two  clean  feather  pillows.  An- 
other simple  way  of  keeping  ice  is  to  put  it  in  a  dish  pan, 
cover  with  a  tin  lid,  and  wrap  in  flannel  cloths  and  news- 
papers. It  will  keep  a  long  time,  as  feathers,  wool  and 
paper  are  poor  conductors  of  heat. 


84  PRACTICAL  DIETETICS 

Disinfecting  Utensils.  All  dishes  or  utensils  used  in  the 
sick  room  should  be  disinfected  before  being  sent  to  the 
kitchen  to  be  washed.  A  simple  method  is  to  scrape  them 
clean  and  dip  them  in  a  basin  of  borax  water  (a  teaspoonful 
of  borax  in  a  shallow  bowl  of  water).  In  case  of  infectious 
diseases  all  dishes  and  utensils  should  be  boiled  in  water 
containing  3  per  cent,  of  sodium  bicarbonate  for  one-half  an 
hour  to  one  hour. 


CHAPTER  V 
THE  TRAY 

The  writer's  intention  is  only  to  suggest  to  the  nurse  the 
best  and  simplest  methods  of  arranging  the  tray  and  a  few 
of  the  important  details. 

These  things  seem  trivial,  but  it  must  be  remembered  that 
the  horizon  of  the  sick  room  is  limited,  and  that  the  patient 
who  has  long  been  confined  to  bed  with  a  serious  illness  thinks 
much  of  his  immediate  surroundings. 

He  may  seem  too  ill  to  notice  these  details,  whereas  he  is 
only  too  ill  to  speak  of  them,  for  one  feeds  with  the  eyes  quite 
as  much  as  with  the  lips,  and  by  some  carelessness  of  the 
nurse  the  appetite  of  a  refined,  fastidious,  or  nervous  pa- 
tient may  be  wholly  destroyed. 

While  the  natural  stimulants  to  appetite,  such  as  fresh 
air,  exercise  and  enlivening  companionship,  are  necessarily 
wanting,  the  taking  of  food  is  the  chief  event  of  the  day, 
and  too  much  care  cannot  be  bestowed  upon  its  preparation 
and  service,  as,  has  been  said,  the  appearance  and  manner  of 
offering  have  much  to  do  with  its  acceptance  or  rejection. 

ATTRACTIVE  ARRANGEMENT  OF  A  TRAY 

The  cover  and  the  arrangement  of  the  tray  is  of  the  ut- 
most importance,  and  the  slightest  departure  from  regularity 
and  immaculate  cleanliness  should  be  avoided. 

The  tray  should  be  covered  with  fine  linen  damask,  with- 
out crease  or  wrinkle  —  the  best  you  can  afford.  Use  the 
choicest  silver,  daintiest  china  and  glassware ;  arrange  neatly 
and  conveniently.  Place  a  single  rose  or  flower  on  the  tray; 
a  quotation,  added  as  a  variety,  will  often  attract  the  atten- 
tion, and  it  is  well,  when  possible,  to  divert  the  patient's 

85 


86 


PRACTICAL  DIETETICS 


mind  from  his  ailments  while  eating.  This  can  easily  be 
done  in  these  little  ways,  and  also  by  the  introduction  of 
some  cheerful  and  interesting  topic  of  conversation. 


Proper  Placing 


1  Plate. 

2  Cup  and  saucer. 

3  Bread  and  butter  plate. 

4  Individual  creamer  and  sugar. 

5  Tumbler. 

6  Individual  salt. 


7  Knife. 

8  Fork. 

9  Spoon. 

10  Butter    spread. 

11  Napkin. 

12  Flowers. 


13  Salad  knife.  17  After  coffee  spoon. 

14  Soup  spoon.  18  Soup  or  cereal  or  berry  plate, 

15  Oyster  fork.  etc. 

16  Salad  fork. 

N.B. —  The  dots  between  numbers  7  and  2  reading  from  left  to 
right  represent  numbers  13,  14,  15,  and  17.  Sharp  edge  of  knife 
turned  toward  plate;  tines  of  forks,  bowl  of  spoons,  all  dishes  and 
tumblers  placed  right  side  up. 

How  to  Serve.  (General  Eules.)  The  time  of  cooking 
food  to  be  served,  should  be  carefully  considered  in  relation 


TEE  TRAY  87 

to   the  time   of   serving,   for   most  palatable   food  may   be 
spoiled  by  not  serving  it  at  the  proper  time. 

Avoid  serving  too  many  things  on  tray.  Cover  tray  with  a 
clean  napkin  or  tray  cover  in  carrying  it  to  itb  destination. 
When  the  dietary  ordered  is  very  limited  in  variety,  the  pa- 
tient is  often  gratified  by  having  his  food  served  in  courses, 
and  will  eat  more  than  if  given  everything  at  once. 

Only  a  small  quantity  should  be  served  at  one  time.  If 
possible,  taste  of  all  food  and  drinks  before  serving,  to  see 
if  properly  seasoned  and  at  right  temperature  to  serve. 

Always  use  separate  spoon  for  tasting. 

Food  to  be  served  hot,  should  be  served  hot  (not  luke- 
warm), in  heated  dishes  and  covered  in  transit. 

Cold  drinks  and  fruits  are  more  healthful  when  served 
cool  than  ice-cold. 

When  fluid  foods  are  to  be  given,  other  receptacles  should 
be  used  than  those  used  for  medicine,  or  the  association  of 
ideas  may  be  strong  enough  to  destroy  what  little  appetite 
the  patient  has,  and  to  even  produce  nausea.  Do  not  fill 
cups  or  glasses  full,  but  within  one  inch  of  the  top.  For 
individual  dishes,  for  a  luncheon,  or  drinks  to  be  passed 
alone,  use  a  small  tray  or  plate,  covered  with  a  doily  or 
folded  napkin. 

The  finger-bowl  should  be  placed  on  a  small  plate,  cov- 
ered with  a  dainty  doily;  fill  one-fourth  full  of  water,  and 
put  a  few  rose  petals  or  green  leaves  in  the  water  and  on  the 
side  of  the  plate. 

When  possible,  cover  all  foods  and  drinks  left  standing  in 
the  sick  room. 

The  tray  and  all  traces  of  a  meal  should  be  removed  im- 
mediately after  eating.  Half-emptied  cups  or  glasses  should 
never  be  left  in  the  room. 

If  the  patient  is  restricted  to  any  especial  diet,  vary  as 
far  as  possible  in  the  preparation  and  serving. 

The  diet  of  the  pationt  should  be  under  the  superv 
of  the  physician,  and  his  directions  followed  implicitly,  for 
much  unnecessary  suffering,  and  even  death,  has  been   the 
result  of  giving  forbidden  food. 


CHAPTER  VI 
METHODS  OF  COOKING  AND  CARE  OF  FOOD 

Cooking  is  the  preparation  of  food  for  eating. 

Digestibility  and  Nutritive  Value  of  cooked  food  depends 
to  a  considerable  extent  upon  the  manner  in  which  it  is 
cooked  and  served.  The  time  and  temperature  of  cooking 
should  be  carefully  considered,  in  relation  to  the  constituents 
of  the  food  material. 

Success  in  Cooking  depends  in  part  upon  the  quality  of 
material  used,  which  should  be  the  best.  The  measurements 
must  be  accurate.  Care  should  be  exercised  in  combining 
ingredients  and  one  should  know  the  effect  of  various  modes 
of  cooking  on  the  food  under  consideration.  Training  and 
experience  are  necessary  for  success. 
X   Objective  Points  in  Cooking: 

1.  To  improve  the  flavor  of  food,  or  render  it  more  pal- 
atable. 

2.  To  soften  it  that  it  may  be  more  readily  masticated  and 
digested. 

3.  To  produce  chemical  changes  which  increase  digestibil- 
ity. 

4.  To  destroy  bacteria  and  parasites  which  may  be  pres- 
ent in  raw  food. 

Effects  of  Heat.  Protein  is  coagulated  by  hot  water  and 
dry  heat;  cold  water  dissolves  soluble  proteins,  especially  if  a 
little  salt  is  present. 

Starch  is  converted  into  dextrin  by  dry  heat  at  a  tempera- 
ture of  320°  F. ;  the  starch  granules  dissolve  when  subjected 
to  boiling  water;  cold  water  separates  starch  grains. 

88 


METHODS  OF  COOKING  AND  CARE  OF  FOOD       89 

S   gars  are  changed  to  caramel  at  a  high  temperature. 

Fa  is  are  readily  decomposed  by  heat,  with  production  of 
free  fatty  acids. 

Principles  Governing  the  Choice  of  a  Method  of  Cooking 
Any  Food.  These  include:  (1)  A  knowledge  of  the  effects 
of  heat  and  moisture  on  the  digestibility  of  the  articles  to  be 
cooked.  (2)  The  relation  of  the  method  to  the  extraction  of 
soluble  portions  of  the  food  materials. 

Principal  Cooking  Processes: 

1.  Boiling  is  cooking  in  boiling  water  (212°  F.).  Gentle 
boiling  is  as  effective  as  rapid,  and  prevents  waste  of  fuel  if 
gas  is  used. 

2.  Stewing  is  long,  slow  cooking  in  water  below  the  boil- 
ing point— 186°  F. 

3.  Steaming  is  cooking  in  heat  derived  from  the  vapor  of 
boiling  water.  The  steam  enters  the  cooking  compartment 
and  conies  into  contact  with  the  food  cooked. 

4.  Broiling  is  cooking  over  a  glowing  fire  or  over  or  un- 
der a  flame.  Pan  broiling  is  cooking  meat  in  a  very  hot 
frying-pan  without  fat,  turning  the  meat  often. 

5.  Baking  is  cooking  in  an  oven  by  means  of  heated  air. 
Boasting  is  cooking  before  a  glowing  fire  (direct  heat). 

6.  Frying  is  cooking  in  a  deep  bath  of  hot  fat  (tempera- 
ture ranging  from  350°  to  400°  F.). 

Other  methods  are  used  which  differ  but  slightly  from  the 
above.  Braizing  is  a  combination  of  stewing  and  baking; 
fricasseeing  of  frying  and  stewing. 

The  Object  of  Each  Cooking  Process: 

1.  To  retain  the  juice  as  in  boiling,  steaming,  broiling,  bak- 
ing, roasting,  frying. 

2.  To  extract  the  juices  as  in  soups. 

3.  Partly  to  retain  and  partly  to  extract  the  juices  as  in 
stews,  chowders,  braising,  and  fricasseeing. 

Cooking  UtentiU.  A  nurse  should  always  have  at  hand  a 
standard  measuring  cup,  divided  into  thirds  and  fourths. 
Wu.iden  spoons  are  preferable  to  metal  ones  for  mixing  and 


90  PRACTICAL  DIETETICS 

stirring,  as  metal  spoons  are  too  hard  and  may  break  off 
bits  of  enamel,  and  are  also  acted  upon  by  acids.  For  beating 
egg-white,  a  spoon-shaped  wire  beater  should  be  used;  for 
the  yolks,  a  fork  or  Dover  egg  beater  is  preferable.  Use 
round  bottom  utensils  when  stirring  is  necessary  during  the 
cooking.  Use  earthen  bowl  and  wooden  spoons  for  mixing 
batters,  etc.  A  double  boiler  should  be  used  when  cooking 
any  food  that  burns  easily  (as  milk) ;  also  when  foods  are  to 
be  cooked  at  low  temperatures. 

Blending  Ingredients.  There  are  several  ways  of  accom- 
plishing this  purpose. 

1.  Stirring.  This  is  simple  mechanical  mixing  in  which 
a  mass  of  ingredients  is  made  uniform. 

2.  Beating  or  whipping  consists  in  so  manipulating  a  soft 
mixture  as  to  incorporate  the  air.  A  spoon  or  special  device 
is  so  applied  that  the  bottom  of  the  mixture  is  steadily  lifted 
to  the  top. 

3.  Folding-in  is  a  term  applied  to  the  method  of  intro- 
ducing beaten  white  of  egg  slowly  and  gently  into  a  soft 
mass,  so  as  to  render  it  light,  the  air  being  retained. 

4.  Cutting  is  used  only  in  making  pastry.  Two  knives  are 
worked  in  opposite  directions  until  the  shortening  is  well 
incorporated  in  the  flour. 

Suggestions  as  to  Methods  of  Working.  If  a  fire  and  oven 
are  to  be  used  these  must  be  first  of  all  attended  to  that  they 
be  in  readiness  when  needed.  All  the  cooking  apparatus 
should  be  laid  out  and  the  materials  to  be  cooked  measured 
in  preparations  for  mixing.  It  is  advisable  to  be  economical 
in  the  use  of  utensils.  Thus  one  measuring  cup  may  some- 
times be  used  in  succession  for  dry  materials,  liquids  and 
fats,  in  the  order  named.  A  receptacle  should  be  at  hand 
for  soiled  spoons  and  other  utensils  employed  in  measuring 
or  mixing.  It  is  desirable  to  work  as  much  as  possible  in  a 
small  space;  thus  the  measuring  and  mixing  should  be  done 
on  a  single  table  if  possible.  All  soiled  dishes  should  be  put 
to  soak;  at  odd  moments  they  may  be  washed,  dried  and  put 
away.     The  purpose  underlying  these  principles  is  that  the 


METHODS  OF  COOKING  AND  CARE  OF  FOOD      91 

nurse  may  go  into  the  family  kitchen  and  prepare  food  for 
the  patient  without  in  the  least  interfering  with  the  regular 
kitchen  work  of  the  household. 

Ice  Box  and  Contents.  The  ice  box  should  be  maintained 
in  a  state  of  absolute  cleanliness.  This  is  not  difficult  in 
the  case  of  a  simple  portable  refrigerator  without  a  drain 
pipe,  which  may  be  flushed  out  daily  with  boiling  water  con- 
taining borax  or  ammonia  (half  ounce  to  the  gallon).  How- 
ever, in  the  larger  kinds  of  portable  refrigerators,  and  in  the 
set  ice  boxes  where  a  tube  is  necessary  for  drainage,  all  the 
compartments  and  shelves  should  be  washed  with  soap  and 
hot  water  at  least  once  in  a  week,  while  every  day  loose  par- 
ticles of  food  which  have  escaped  from  dishes,  etc.,  should 
be  carefully  removed;  or  if  advisable  in  certain  cases,  the  food 
and  shelves  may  be  removed  and  wiped  or  brushed  off.  The 
drainage  pipes  must  be  cleaned  with  a  brush  made  for  the 
purpose  at  least  once  a  week.  It  is  advisable  to  sprinkle 
borax  on  the  shelves  after  cleaning.  Certain  pungent  articles 
can  not  be  kept  in  an  ice  box  without  flavoring  other  foods 
such  as  butter,  milk,  etc. 

Institutions,  if  large  enough,  may  use  a  refrigerating  plant, 
which  does  away  in  part  with  the  handling  of  ice;  or  by  the 
aid  of  an  ice  machine,  superintendents  may  assure  them- 
selves of  the  purity  of  all  ice  designed  for  internal  use. 

The  drain  pipe  of  an  ice  box  should  not,  for  obvious  rea- 
sons, communicate  with  the  sewerage  system. 

The  temperature  in  the  food  compartments  is  sometimes 
much  warmer  than  one  would  imagine;  and  it  is  desirable 
to  get  some  idea  of  what  the  temperature  fluctuations  are  by 
using  a  thermometer.  The  reading  can  hardly  go  lower  than 
40°  F.  and  should  not  be  over  60°  F. 

The  ice  cake  should  be  wrapped  in  cloth  or  paper,  not  only 
for  economy's  sake  but  because  it  may  be  dirty  inside  or  out- 
side. No  food  should  be  placed  in  the  box  while  warm,  for 
the  sudden  cooling  may  set  up  undesirable  changes.  Canned 
food  should  not  be  placed  on  ice  in  the  opened  can,  but  in  a 
fresh    receptacle.     When    possible,    each    article    should    be 


92  PRACTICAL  DIETETICS 

placed  in  a  separate  container,  or  wrapped  in  paper.  Mois- 
ture in  the  ice  box,  while  unavoidable,  should  be  kept  down 
by  wiping  walls  and  shelves  dry  at  intervals. 

CARE    OF   FOODi 

The  care  of  food  between  the  time  of  purchase  and  cooking, 
and  that  of  cooking  and  serving  is  highly  important.  The 
fact  that  spoiled  food  represents  an  economic  loss,  important 
as  it  is,  is  much  less  significant  than  the  fact  that  not  only 
spoiled  food,  but  good  food  which  is  contaminated  with  germ 
life,  is  a  possible  source  of  disease. 

Exposed  food,  i.  e.,  food  exposed  to  dust,  insects,  etc.,  be- 
comes contaminated  with  disease  germs  without  necessarily 
becoming  spoiled  or  in  any  way  offensive  to  the  senses.  The 
most  crisp  salad  or  luscious  fruit  may  be  covered  with  dan- 
gerous microorganisms. 

By  far  the  most  frequent  and  abundant  forms  of  micro- 
organisms, which  grow  at  such  rate  as  quickly  to  become  vis- 
ible to  the  naked  eye,  are  molds.  These  are  not  on  the  whole 
harmful  to  man,  and  their  chief  significance  is  that  they  give 
to  foods  a  bad  flavor  and  cause  a  certain  amount  of  decompo- 
sition. These  organisms  attack  food  which  is  stored  in  dark, 
damp  places,  chiefly  cellars,  and  although  themselves  gen- 
erally harmless,  they  are  likely  to  be  associated  with  poisonous 
bacteria.  Certain  butchers  hang  steaks  until  they  become 
covered  with  mold,  but  the  mold  does  not  make  the  meat  ten- 
der and  highly  flavored,  for  these  changes  are  due  largely 
to  the  bacteria  of  putrefaction  which  are  also  present,  thriv- 
ing under  the  same  conditions  as  does  the  mold. 

In  case  of  substances  which  have  a  natural  protective  cov- 
ering, it  is  highly  important  that  this  should  not  be  broken 
in  handling.  Thus  when  fruits  and  vegetables  are  bruised, 
the  pulp  is  quickly  attacked  by  microorganisms  and  local 
changes  occur,  resulting  in  economic  waste,  since  such  articles 
can  only  be  partly  utilized. 

1  For  further  information,  note  "Care  of  Food  in  the  Home."  Farmers' 
Bulletin,  No.   375  U.  S.  Dept.  of  Agriculture,  Washington,  D.  C. 


METHODS  OF  COOKING  AND  (ARE  OF  FOOD      93 

Foods  should  therefore  be  stored  in  places  which  admit 
plenty  of  sunlight  and  air,  which  will  antagonize  the  growth 
of  molds  and  putrefactive  bacteria.  Ice,  by  producing  tem- 
peratures unfavorable  for  the  growth  of  microorganisms,  is 
a  valuable  aid  in  this  sort  of  cleanliness.  Some  use  of  soap 
and  water  is  necessary,  but  the  benefits  are  partly  lost  if  the 
shelves,  etc.,  are  left  damp.  In  cellars  repeated  whitewashing 
is  the  most  available  resource  for  cleanliness. 

Food  should  be  bought  in  the  freshest  and  cleanest  state, 
should  be  placed  in  clean  containers,  and  handled  with  clean 
hands.  Foods  should  always  be  washed  if  there  is  any  suspi- 
cion of  contamination.  The  cases  of  violent  cholera  morbus 
which  often  follow  the  use  of  unripe  apples,  and  even  of  ripe 
fruit  like  cherries,  are  believed  to  be  due  not  to  the  irritating 
acids  present  in  fruit,  but  to  the  presence  of  a  well-known 
bacterium  mingled  with  the  dust  which  collects  on  such  fruit. 
To  be  absolutely  on  the  safe  side,  all  fruits  and  vegetables 
should  be  eaten  cooked,  but  this  would  deprive  us  of  salads 
and  fresh  fruits  and  berries  which  form  so  large  and  pleas- 
urable a  part  of  the  average  dietary.  It  has  been  found  by 
experience  that  if  celery,  greens,  asparagus,  berries,  etc.,  are 
d  repeatedly  in  cool  or  tepid  water,  they  can  at  last 
become  quite  clean  without  losing  their  delicate  flavor  and 
consistency.  As  long  as  a  particle  of  grit  is  present  there  is 
of  course  possibility  of  contamination  by  living  organisms. 
They  should  be  washed,  therefore,  until  the  wash  water  is 
clear.  This  is  a  rule  which  applies  to  all  food  that  is  to 
be  eaten  raw.  With  cooking  such  caution  is  not  absolutely 
necessary.  Potatoes,  etc.,  are  washed  before  boiling  for 
esthetic  reasons  only. 

The  worst  cases  of  food  poisoning,  known  as  ptomaine 
poisoning,  are  mysterious  in  character,  and  are  not  entirelv 
preventable.  Chemical  substances  not  usually  formed  in  sim- 
ple decomposition  are  responsible.  They  may  be  present  alike 
in  raw,  cooked,  or  frozen  foods,  and  in  fresh  and  preserved 
foods.  In  some  cases  there  is  abundant  evidence  of  extreme 
decomposition.     The  use  of  rotten  eggs  in  cookery  by  bakers 


94  PRACTICAL  DIETETICS 

has  caused  severe  ptomaine  poisoning.  Cold  storage  meats 
are  sometimes  responsible.  Fish  poisoning,  especially  with 
shell  fish,  may  be  due  to  some  unknown  disease  of  the  ani- 
mals themselves  (although  fish  very  readily  undergo  decom- 
position), and  personal  susceptibility  is  often  a  factor.  The 
numerous  cases  of  ice  cream  poisoning  are  usually  due  to 
mistakes  of  amateurs  who  do  not  understand  the  proper  re- 
quirements of  the  art.  Although  we  do  not  understand  and 
cannot  always  foresee  ptomaine  poisoning,  it  is  the  more 
important  that  no  step  be  neglected  which  will  contribute  in 
theory  to  securing  clean  food.  Most  cases  occur  in  prolonged 
warm  weather  in  which  decomposition  is  favored.  Sound, 
fresh  food,  thoroughly  cooked  and  eaten  at  once  could  hardly 
cause  ptomaine  poisoning  under  any  conditions. 

The  articles  which  the  ordinary  careful  nurse  must  think 
of  in  this  connection  are  preserved  foods  of  all  kinds,  shell 
fish,  and  milk  products,  the  latter  being  of  most  significance, 
because  milk,  fresh  cream,  ice  cream,  etc.,  are  often  given 
freely  to  invalids.  The  care  of  milk,  drinking  water  and 
other  kinds  of  food  is  considered  elsewhere. 

Special  care  of  food  in  respect  to  fly  pollution  has  become 
necessary  since  we  have  learned  of  the  part  played  by  this 
insect  in  causing  typhoid  fever,  cholera,  dysentery,  etc.  Both 
the  feet  and  the  excrement  of  flies  are  sources  of  contamina- 
tion. Dealers  in  food-stuffs  in  the  main  take  but  little  pains 
against  protecting  their  wares  from  fly  contamination.  Cook- 
ing and  careful  washing  of  food  to  be  eaten  raw,  are  our 
principal  safeguards  in  respect  to  food  as  it  reaches  the  house. 
There  is  the  added  danger  that  food  when  ready  for  con- 
sumption will  be  freshly  contaminated.  To  obviate  this, 
floors  and  windows  of  kitchens  and  dining  rooms  must  be 
properly  screened,  and  flypaper  and  similar  precautions  em- 
ployed. If  typhoid  is  epidemic  in  a  neighborhood,  it  is  well 
to  avoid  raw  food  entirely,  just  as  we  avoid  unsterilized  water 
and  milk.  Flies  are  much  more  likely  to  abound  in  neighbor- 
hoods where  manure,  garbage,  etc.,  are  allowed  to  accumulate, 
and  are  more  dangerous  than  ordinary  dust. 


METHODS  OF  COOKING  AND  CARE  OF  FOOD      95 

Dealers  usually  are  at  some  pains  to  keep  their  supplies  free 
from  dust,  though  their  methods  are  not  always  sanitary, 
e.  g.,  the  use  of  the  feather  duster  for  fruit.  Dust  from  the 
Btreets  of  cities  abounds  in  germ  life.  Vegetables  and  cer- 
tain fruits  in  clusters  which  cannot  be  wiped  (grapes,  cur- 
rants, etc.)  are  most  likely  to  be  dusty.  Washing  succes- 
sively in  a  number  of  waters  will  usually  remove  the  dust: 
but  in  the  tropics  where  many  diseases  are  dust-borne  it  is  not 
considered  safe  to  eat  raw  grapes  at  all.  Whether  washing 
is  sufficient  depends  on  the  character  of  the  dust  and  the 
degree  of  exposure  to  it. 

Preserving  Foods.  Foods  to  be  preserved  should  be  per~ 
fectly  fresh.     Yco  gives  four  methods  of  preservation: 

(1)  Drying  is  the  method  most  available  for  preserving 
peas,  beans,  prunes,  apricots  and  other  fruit-.  Milk  and  eggs 
may  both  be  preserved  by  desiccation. 

(2)  Exclusion  of  air  may  be  applied  in  several  way-. 
Smoking,  which  coagulates  the  outer  surface  and  sterilizes 
it,  serves  for  preserving  ham,  bacon,  fish,  etc.  Packing  in 
sawdust,  etc.,  or  dipping  in  wax  preserves  eggs.  Canning  in 
tins  or  jars  under  steam  heat  is  used  for  preserving  many 
kinds  of  food,  all  air  thus  being  forced  out  before  the  can  or 
jar  is  hermetically  sealed. 

(3)  Freezing  and   cold   storage   are   used   extensively   for 
■ving  fish,  meat,  jams,  etc.     Such  foods  must  be  cooked 

immediately  upon  thawing. 

(4)  Antiseptics  are  used  very  extensively  in  food  preserva- 
tion. The  oldest  and  most  widely  known  of  these  are  salt, 
vinegar,  alcohol  and  syrups.  More  recently  a  great  variety 
of  antiseptic  chemicals  have  been  used  —  benzoate  of  soda, 
salicylic  acid,  etc.,  etc.  The  advisability  of  their  use,  even 
in  minute  quantities,  is  questionable. 

Concentration.  Most  foods  can  be  reduced  to  a  dry  or 
otherwise  condena  without  loss  of  nutritive  value  or 

danger  of  decomposition;  and  on  account  of  the  resulting 
economy  in  price  and  Btorage  room  may  enter  into  the  dietaries 
of   hospitals    and    institutions.     .Sugar,    oil    and    starch,    and 


96  PRACTICAL  DIETETICS 

many  cereal  products,  are  already  in  a  state  of  concentration. 
Powdered  milk  and  meat,  egg  powder,  etc.,  are  coming  more 
and  more  into  use.  Condensed  milk  has  long  been  a  useful 
product  (see  milk  and  milk  preparations),  as  have  dried  and 
evaporated  fruits  and  vegetables.  All  these  products  can  be 
used  in  cookery.  Their  chief  use  as  mainstays  will  doubtless 
be  in  cases  of  temporary  shortage  of  fresh  foods,  due  to 
devastating  storms,  "  strikes "  and  other  happenings  which 
interrupt  traffic. 

Predigestion  of  Food.  Much  is  written  against  the  use  of 
predigested  foods  as  a  steady  diet  for  the  well.  Many  starchy 
foods  on  the  market  are  partially  digested  by  heat.  The 
objection  seems  to  rest  on  the  theory  that  such  foods  give  the 
digestive  fluids  and  muscles  of  the  digestive  organs  nothing 
to  do,  and  that  a  sort  of  sluggishness  is  set  up.  It  cannot 
be  said  truthfully  that  these  claims  have  ever  been  backed 
up  by  facts.  ISTo  one  denies  that  thorough  mastication  is  a 
great  advantage,  and  with  thorough  mastication  much  of  the 
starch  is  predigested  in  the  mouth,  or,  after  swallowing,  in 
the  fundus  of  the  stomach.  Predigested  proteins  are  not  used 
as  staple  foods,  and  as  little  is  gained  by  very  finely  masti- 
cating flesh  foods,  the  stomach-  has  plenty  of  work  in  digest- 
ing animal  proteins.  If  there  is  fat  in  the  diet  the  pancreas 
can  never  fall  into  a  state  of  disuse.  Hence  the  outcry 
against  partially  predigested  breakfast  foods  does  not  seem 
justified  on  this  score.  It  is  true,  however,  that  their  absence 
of  flavor,  and  the  soft  and  pulpy  character  of  some  of  them 
are  recognized  as  possible  drawbacks;  for  semi-solid  and 
pultaceous  foods  are  difficult  to  masticate,  while  their  in- 
sipidity does  not  flavor  a  flow  of  digestive  fluids.  If  ad- 
herence to  these  foods  causes  sluggish  digestion  and  inability 
to  deal  with  food  in  more  natural  condition,  one  would  impute 
this  not  to  predigestion,  but  to  the  fact  that  the  tastelessness 
and  the  ease  with  which  they  may  be  bolted,  are  the  real 
factors  which  bring  about  a  passive  state  of  the  digestive 
functions. 


METHODS  OF  COOKING  AND  CARE  OF  FOOD      97 

In  a  diet  for  the  ill,  the  dyspeptic,  the  convalescent,  etc., 
thorr  ran  be  QC  possible  objection  to  predigestion ;  on  the  con- 
trary, it  is  highly  desirable  up  to  a  certain  extent.  But  just 
>D  as  possible  the  patient  should  return  to  foods  in  the 
natural  state,  hearing  m  mind  that  a  small  minority  of 
n  the  acutely  ill,  thrive  on  food  which  in  theory 
would  he  hazardous  to  say  the  least.  Apparently  hopeless 
of  Bepsis  have  seemingly  been  rescued  by  placing  pa- 
tients on  food  suited  only  for  the  healthy.  Such  patients 
must,  however,  have  a  natural  appetite  and  be  able  to  tolerate 
the  food. 

Adulteration  of  Food.  "  Since  the  passage  of  the  National 
Pure  Food  and  Drugs  Act,  giving  to  the  United  States  Gov- 
ernment authority  to  enforce  stringent  laws  against  the  adul- 
teration and  misbranding  of  foods  which  enter  into  inter- 
state commi  rce,  and  the  more  rigid  enforcement  of  similar 
state  laws  which  regulate  these  matters  in  many  of  the  states, 
a  great  burden  has  been  lifted  from  the  shoulders  of  the  buyer. 
This  legislation  has  enormously  decreased  the  deceptions 
formerly  practiced  by  some  manufacturers,  and  since  it  in- 
sures that  the  name  and  description  on  bottle  and  package 
shall  not  misrepresent  the  contents,  the  buyer,  if  he  knows 
what  he  wants,  will  have  no  difficulty  in  obtaining  it,  while 
the  honest  manufacturers  and  dealers  (and  they  have  with- 
out doubt  always  outnumbered  the  others)  will  also  be  pro- 
tected. This  matter  in  its  various  aspects  is  taken  up  in 
publications  of  the  Bureau  of  Chemistry  ■  of  this  Depart- 
ment." -  For  Table  of  Common  Adulteration  of  Food- 
stuff, note  Farmer's  Bulletin  Xo.  25,  of  the  United  States 
Department  of  Agriculture,  Division  of  Chemistry,  Washing- 
ton, D.  C. 

1  U.  S.  I>ept.  Agriculture  Bureau  of  Chemistry,  Bulletin  100;  Year  Book 
1907,  p.   85 

3  U.  S.  Depk  Agriculture    Bureau  of  Chemistry,  Bulletin  325,  p.  19. 


CHAPTER  VII 
MEASURES  AND  WEIGHTS 

Accurate  measurement  is  necessary  to  insure  success  in 
cooking. 

All  dry  ingredients,  such  as  flour,  meal,  confectioners'  or 
powdered  sugar,  should  be  sifted  before  measuring. 

Mustard,  cream  of  tartar,  soda,  and  salt  should  be  stirred 
before  measuring,  to  lighten  and  free  from  lumps. 


A  Standard  Measuring  Cup 

A  standard  measuring  cup  contains  one-half  pint  and  is 
divided  into  fourths  and  thirds. 

To  measure  a  cupful  of  dry  material,  put  in  the  ingredients 
by  spoonfuls,  round  slightly  and  level  with  back  of  case- 
knife,  being  careful  not  to  shake  cup. 

A  cupful  is  measured  level  with  the  brim. 

A  heaping  cupful  is  measured  level,  with  two  table  spoon- 
fuls extra  added. 

A  scant  cupful  is  measured  level,  with  two  table  spoonfuls 
takes  out. 

All  ingredients  measured  uij  the  tablespoon  or  teaspoon  are 
measuri  d  level, 

98 


MEASURES  AXD  WEIGHTS 


99 


To  measure  a  spoonful,  fill  the  spoon  and  level  it  off  with 
the  back  oi"  case-knife. 


To  measure  a  half-spoonful,  first  measure  a  spoonful  and 
then  cut  it  in  halves,  lengthwu 

To  measure  a  quarter-spoonful,  measure  a  half-spoonful 
and  divide  it  into  half,  crosswise,  allowing  a  little  more  for 
tip  of  spoon. 

A  saltspoon  is  one-fourth  of  a  level  teaspoon. 

A  -peck  is  a  little  less  than  one-eighth  of  a  teaspoon. 

To  measure  butter,  lard,  and  other  solid  fats,  pack  solidly 
into  spoon  or  cup  and  level  with  knife. 

When  recipe  calls  for  one  tablespoon  (or  so)  of  butter 
>i"  litd,  measure  before  melting.  When  recipe  calls  for  one 
tablespoon  (or  so)  of  melted  butter,  measure  after  melting. 

TABLE  OF  MEASURES  AND  WEIGHTS 

Itspoons     =  1  teaspoon,  tsp. 

3  teaspoons    =1  tablespoon,  tbsp. 

4  tablespoons     =  1  cup  or  \  gill. 

1G  tablespoons    (di  '   ingredients] =  1  cup,  c. 

10  tablo-poons    (liquid)    =1  cup. 


100 


PRACTICAL  DIETETICS 


2  gills =  1  cup. 

2  cups     =*  1  pint. 

2  pints    —  1  quart. 

4  quarts    =  1  gallon. 

2  tablespoons  butter =  1  ounce. 

1  tablespoon  melted  butter    ...„..., =  1  ounce. 

4  tablespoons   flour    =  1  ounce. 

2  tablespoons  granulated  sugar    =1  ounce. 

2  tablespoons  liquid    =  1  ounce. 

2  tablespoons  powdered  lime =1  ounce. 

1  cup  of  stale  bread  crumbs    =2  ounces. 

1  square  Baker's  unsweetened  chocolate    ....  =1  ounce. 
Juice  of  one  lemon  =  ( about)   3  tablespoons... 

5  table  spoons  liquid    =  1  wineglassful. 

4  cups  of  sifted  flour =  1  pound. 

2  cups  of  butter  (packed  solid)    =1  pound. 

2  cups  of  finely  chopped  meat  (packed  solidly)  =  1  pound. 

2  cups  of  granulated  sugar —  1  pound. 

2§  cups  of  powdered  sugar   =1  pound. 

2§  cups  brown  sugar    =1  pound. 

2§  cups  oatmeal   =  1  pound. 

41  cups  rolled  oats =  1  pound. 

9  to  10  eggs    =  1  pound. 

1  cup  of  rice =  £  pound. 

APOTHECARIES  WEIGHTS 

20  grains    =  1  scruple,   3 

3  scruples     =  1  drachm,  3 

8  drachms    (or  480  grains)    =1  ounce,  3 

12  ounces    , —  1  pound,  lb. 

APOTHECARIES   MEASURES 

60  minims    (M)    =1  fluid   drachm,   f  5 

8  fluid   drachms    =  1  fluid    ounce,    f  J 

16  fluid  ounces    . .  .  . . =  1   pint,  0  or  pt. 

2  pints     —   1   quart,  qt. 

4  quarts    =  1  gallon,  gal. 

APPROXIMATE   MEASURES 

One  teaspoonful    equals  about  1  fluid  drachm. 

One  dessertspoonful    equals  about  2  fluid  drachms. 

One  tablespoonful   equals  about  4  fluid  drachms. 

One  wineglassful   equals  about  2  ounces. 

One  cup   (one-half  pint)    equals  about  8  ounces. 


MEASURES  AXD  WEIGHTS  101 


METRIC  SYSTEM 

For  the  origin  and  underlying  principles  of  the  metric 
system  consult  any  modern  arithmetic  (Milne's  Standard,  for 
example).  The  nurse  should  know  the  metric  tables  and  the 
equivalents  between  the  metric  and  common  systems  for  meas- 
ures of  volume  and  weight.  She  does  not  require  linear  and 
square  measure.  Dor  measures  of  capacity  except  in  a  few 
instances. 

The  subjoined  tables  and  equivalents  will  suffice. 

TABLES 
Measures   of   Volume 

In  measuring  small  quantities  the  cubic  centimeter  is  the 
unit. 

1  cubic  centimeter    = 

10  cubic  centimeters     = 

1  cubic  millimeter    = 

1-1<m>  cubic  millimeter    I  

1-1000  cubic  centimeter    J 

2tc,  etc. 

MEASURES   OF  WEIGHT 

In  measures  of  weight  the  gram  is  the  unit. 

1  gram    1.0  gm. 

1  decigram    0.1  gm. 

1  centigram    0.01  gm. 

1  milligram    o.oul  gm. 

TABLE   OF   EQUIVALENTS 

Appended  is  a  table  of  all  the  denominations  of  weight* 
and  measures,  opposite  which  are  placed  the  metric  Bystem, 

with  cone-ponding  equivalents  in  wine  measure  and  avoirdu- 
pois weights : 


1.0 

cc. 

0.00 

cc. 

0.1 

cc. 

0.0C1 

cc. 

102 


PRACTICAL  DIETETIC F 


LIQUIDS 


APPROXIMATE 
EQUIVALENT 


EXACT 
EQUIVALENT 


1  minim     

1  fl.  drachm    

1  fl.  oz 

4  fl.  o?-s.  or  \  pint.  .  .  . 
8  fl.  ozs.  or  J  pint 

16  fl.  ozs.  or  1  pint.  .  .  . 

2  pints    

4  pints  or  \  gallon.  .  . 
1  gallon    

1   Cubic  centimeter. 

4   Cc 

15    Cc 

25   Cc 

30   Cc 

60   Cc .... 

100   Cc 

120   Cc 

125    Cc 

235   Cc 

250   Cc 

300   Cc 

470   Cc 

500   Cc 

950   Cc 

1000  Cc.    (1  Liter) 
4  Liters    


0.06  Cubic    centi- 
metre 
4  Cc. 
30  Cc. 

118  Cc.  (|  Liter) 
236  Cc.  (4  Liter) 
473  Cc.    d  Liter) 

1  Liter    (1000  Cc.) 

2  Liters. 
4  Liters. 


16  minims. 
1  fluid  drachm. 
\  fl.  oz.    (4  fl.  drs.) 
62  fl.  drs. 

1  fl.  oz. 

2  fl.  ozs. 
3J  fl.  ozs. 

4  fl.  ozs.  (|  pint) 
4J  fl.  ozs. 
8  fl.  ozs.  (J  pint) 
8£  fl.  ozs. 
10  fl.  ozs. 
1  pint. 

1  pint  1  fl.  oz. 

2  pints. 

2  1-10  pints. 
1  gallon. 


0.061  Cc. 

3.696  Cc. 

29.574  Cc. 

118.295  Cc. 

236.590  Cc. 

473.197  Cc. 

.946  Liter. 

1.892  Liters. 

3.785  Liters. 


16.23 
1.082 
4.057 
6.762 
1.014 
2.029 
3.381 
4.057 
4.227 
7.945 
8.453 
10.144 
15.892 
1.056 
2.007 
2.113 
1.056 


nuns. 
fl.  drs. 
fl.  drs. 
fl.  drs. 
fl.  ozs. 


ozs. 
ozs. 


fl. 

fl. 

fl.  ozs. 
fl.  ozs. 
fl.  ozs. 
fl.  ozs. 
fl.  ozs. 
fl.  ozs. 
pints, 
pints, 
pints, 
gals. 


SOLIDS 

APPROXIMATE 
EQUIVALENT 

EXACT 
EQUIVALENT 

1-500  grain    

0.00013  Gm. 
0.00043  Gm. 
0.00054  Gm. 
0.00065  Gm. 
0.001  Gm, 

( 1  milligramme.) 

0.000129  Gm. 

1-150    gr 

0.000432  Gm. 

1-120    cr 

0.000540  Gm. 

MOO    er 

0.000648  Gm. 

1-64      gr 

0.001013  Gm. 

MEASURES  AND  WEIGHTS 


103 


SOLIDS 


APPROXIMATE 
EQUIVALENT 


EXACT 
EQUIVALENT 


1-50  gr 
1-40  gr. 
i-32  gr. 
1-25  gr. 
1-10  gr. 
1-3  gr.. 
1  gr... 
5    grs .  . 


15  grs 
30  grs 
60    grs 

i  oz. 

5  oz. 

1  oz.    , 

2  ozs. 
J  lb. 
J  lb. 

1  lb.    , 

2  lbs. 


1  milligramme 

(0.001   Gm.).... 
10  milligrammes 

(0.01  Gm.) 

(=1    centigramme.) 
100  milligrammes 

(0.1  Gm.) 

(=1    decigramme.) 

1  Gramme   

4  Gm 

10  Gm.  (1  deka- 

gramme)     

25  Gm 

28  Gm 

56  Gm 

100  Gm.    (1  hekto- 

gramme)     


0.0013    Gm. 
0.0016   Gm. 
0.002  Gm. 
0.0026   Gm. 
0.0065   Gm. 
0.021    Gin. 
0.065    Gm. 
0.3  Gm. 
(3    decigrammes. 

1  Gm. 

2  Gm. 
4  Gm. 
3.5  Gm. 

14.2  Gm. 

28     Gm. 

56  Gm. 
113  Gm. 
225  Gm. 
450  Gm. 
900  Gm. 


113  Gm 
200  Gm 


1-65  grain. 
1-6  gr. 

li  grs. 

15J  grs. 

60  grs.  ( 1  dr.  Troy ) 

J  oz. 
I  oz. 

1  oz.  (437J  grs.) 

2  ozs. 

3J  ozs. 


4  ozs.  (J  lb.) 
7  ozs. 


0.001206 
0.001620 
0.002025 
0.002592 
0.006479 
0.021599 
0.064798 
0.324  Gm. 

0.972  Gm. 

1.944  Gm. 

3.888  Gm. 

3.544  Gm. 

14.175  Gm. 

28.350  Gm. 

56.699  Gm. 

113.398  Gm. 

226.796  Gm. 

453.592  Gm. 

907.185  Gm. 


Gm. 
Gm. 
Gm. 
Gm. 
Gm. 
Gm. 
Gm. 


0.015  grain. 
0.154  gr. 

1.543  grs. 

15.4324  grs. 
61.729  grs. 

154.324  grs. 
385.81  grs. 
432.107  grs. 
1  oz.  426.7  grs. 

3  ozs.  230.7  grs. 


3  ozs.  431.3  grs. 
7  ozs.  24  grs. 


104 


PRACTICAL  DIETETICS 


APPROXIMATE 
EQUIVALENT 


EXACT 
EQUIVALENT 


8  ozs.    (J  lb.) 

8fc  ozs.' 

1  lb.    (7000  grs. 

1  1-10  lbs. 

2  lbs. 


225    Gm 

250   Gm 

450   Gm 

500   Gm 

900   Gm 

1000  Gm.    (1  kilo- 
gramme or  Kilo) 


2|  lbs. 


7  ozs.  410  grs. 

8  ozs.  358  grs. 
15  ozs.   382  grs. 

1  lb.  1  oz.  279  grs. 

1  lb.  15  ozs.  327  grs. 

2  lbs.  3   ozs.   120  grs. 


TABLE  FOR  PREPARING  PERCENTAGE  SOLUTIONS 

Public  Charities  and  the  Department  of  Bellevue  and  Allied 
Hospitals  i 

One  fluid  ounce  of  water,  or  480  minims,  weighs  456.4 
grains.  One  pint  of  water,  or  7680  minims,  weighs  7300,  or 
practically  7300  grains.  Hence,  a  10  per  cent,  solution,  for 
instance,  is  one  which  contains  730  grains  of  some  substance 
in  1  pint. 

The  following  table  will  show  at  a  glance  the  quantity  of 
any  substance,  by  weight,  required  to  prepare  one  pint  of  a 
solution : 

1.  To  Prepare  One  Pint  of  a  Solution 


REQUIRED    TO    CONTAIN    OF    A    CERTAIN- 
SUBSTANCE 


CENT. 


i 

per 

cent 
a 

5d 

A 

*V 

is 

sV 

tV 

" 

tV 

<( 

TAKE  OF  THE  SUBSTANCE 
BELOW  STATED  AMOUNT 
IN  GRAINS  WITH 

ENOUGH         WATER         TO 
MAKE    1    PINT. 


1    in 

10,000 

Grains          0.73 

(1! 

1    in 

5,000 

1.46 

(U) 

1    in 

4,000 

1.83 

(li) 

1    in 

3,000 

2.44 

(2i) 

1    in 

2,500 

2.92 

(3) 

1    in 

2,000 

3.G5 

(31) 

1    in 

1,500 

4.87 

(41) 

1    in 

1,000 

7.30 

(71) 

1  Arranged   by    the   Public    Charities   and   the   Department   of   Bellevue   and 
Allied  Hospitals. 


MEASURES  AXD  KFAGIITS 


105 


REQUIRED    TO    CONTAIN    OF    A    CERTAIN 
SUBSTANCE 

TAKE    OF    THE    SUBSTANCE 
BELOW    STATED   AMOUNT 
IN           GRAINS            WITH 

PES    CENT. 

OR 

ENOUGH          WATER         TO 
MAKE    1    PINT. 

J     per  cent 

1     in          500 
1    in         400 
1    in         300 
1    in         200 
1     in          100 
1    in           75 
1    in           50 
1     in           40 
1    in           33J 
1    in           25 
1    in           20 
1    in            10 
1     in              5 
1    in              4 
1     in              2 

Grains       14.60          (141) 
18.25          (184) 
"            24.33          (244) 
36.50          (361) 
73.00          (73) 
97.33          (97) 
146.00        (146) 
182.50        (180) 
219.22        (220) 
292.00        (290) 
365.00        (365) 
730.00        (730) 
1460.00      (1460) 
1825.00      (1825) 
3650.00      (3650) 

4          "        

1          "        

1          *        

1          "        

U          "        

2            "         

2]          "         

3           "        

4            "        

5            ■        

10            "         

20            "         

25            '«         

50            "         

2.  To  Prepare  One  Fluid  Ounce  of  a  Solution 


REQUIRED    TO    CONTAIN    OF 
A    SUBSTANCE 


0.1  per  cent 

1 

2         " 

3 

4 

5 

6 

8 

9 

10 


TAKE   OF   THE    SUBSTANCE 


0.46  grain 

2.28  " 

4.56  " 

9.13  " 

13.69  " 

18.26  " 

22.82  " 

27.38  * 

31.95  " 

36.51  u 

41.08  " 

45*64  " 


APPROX 

(1  gr- 

(24  " 

(41  " 

(9  " 

(131  " 

(184  " 

(23  " 

(271  " 

( 32  " 

(361  " 

(41  " 

(451  - 


And 
enough 
water 

to 

make 

1   fluid  ounce. 


106  PRACTICAL  DIETETICS 

THERMOMETRY 

The  thermometers  used  by  the  nurse  in  cookery,  in  regu- 
lating the  heat  of  the  room  or  in  taking  the  patient's  tempera- 
tures are  chiefly  of  the  Fahrenheit  scale.  Scientists  employ 
the  Centigrade  scale  in  most  countries.  While  thermometers 
are  made  with  both  scales,  it  is  a  simple  matter  to  translate 
the  ordinary  Fahrenheit  to  Centigrade. 

The  freezing  point  of  the  latter  is  0°,  while  that  of  the 
former  is  32°  above  0. 

The  boiling  point  of  the  latter  is  100°,  while  that  of  the 
former  is  212°. 

Hence,  to  change  Fahrenheit  to  Centigrade,  we  subtract 
32°  from  212°  in  order  that  the  freezing  points  correspond, 
which  leaves  180°  F.=  100°  C.  A  degree  Centigrade  is 
therefore  5/9  of  a  degree  Fahrenheit. 

To  change  Centigrade  to  Fahrenheit,  every  Fahrenheit  de- 
gree is  9/5  times  as  large  as  a  Centigrade  degree.  It  is  also 
necessary  to  add  32°  to  the  result. 

Examples:     Change  212°   Fahrenheit  to  Centigrade. 
212°—  32°=t  180°  X  5-9  =  100°    C. 
Change  100°  Centrigrade  to  Fahrenheit. 
100°  X  9-5  =  180°  +  32°  =  212°  F. 


Note    from   page    11. 

*  Not  all  proteins  are  equally  advantageous.  Studies  of  farm  animals  show, 
for  instance,  that  corn  protein  alone  does  not  produce  the  best  growth,  but 
needs  to  be  supplement  by  other  proteins.  Investigations  with  pure  isolated 
proteins  of  various  k»nds  prove  that  some  of  them  (as  casein  and  edestin) 
will  serve  as  the  sole  source  of  nitrogen,  both  for  the  young  animal  and  the 
adult;  others,  as  gliadin  of  wheat,  will  maintain  the  mother  but  not  the  grow- 
ing organism ;  while  still  others,  as  zein  of  corn  or  gelatin,  will  support  neither 
the  adult  nor  the  young.  This  is  explained  by  the  difference  in  the  constitution 
of  the  proteins.  Taey  are  all  made  up  of  simpler  chemical  compounds 
called  ami uo  acids,  some  fifteen  to  twenty  being  present  in  a  single  protein. 
Of  these,  two  are  demonstrated  to  be  especially  important  to  the  body,  namely, 
tryptophane  and  lysine.  Without  them  there  can  be  no  growth  in  the  young 
nor  repair  in  the  adult.  Proteins  which  contain  all  the  essential  amino 
acids  are  called  "complete";  those  which  have  enough  for  all  building  pur- 
poses in  the  adult,  but  not  in  the  young,  are  "partially  incomplete";  and 
those  which  have  to  be  supplemented  by  other  proteins  (or  experimentally  by 
the  lacking  amino  acids)  are  "incomplete."  One  advantage  in  the  use  of 
milk  and  eggs  in  the  diet  is  the  assurance  of  having  a  supply  of  complete 
proteins,  A.8  already  staled,  gelatin  will  "serve  about  two-thirds  of  the  adult 
need  of   protein. 


PART  II 

BEVERAGES 

ANIMAL  FOODS 

VEGETABLE  FOODS 

NUTRITIOUS  DESSERTS 


CHAPTER  VIII 
BEVERAGES 

ACID  —  ALBUMINOUS  —  STARCHY  —  MISCELLANEOUS  BEVER- 
AGES, INCLUDING  TEA,  COFFEE,  CHOCOLATE,  AND  COCOA, 
AND  SPECIAL  NON-NUTRITIVE  BEVERAGES 

Beverages  serve  primarily  to  relieve  thirst.  The  universal 
beverage  is  water.1  Other  beverages  answer  the  same  pur- 
pose, because  their  chief  constituent  is  water.  They  are  also 
taken  for  their  temperature  —  cold  or  hot;  for  their  flavor, 
which  helps  to  arouse  or  appease  the  appetite;  or  for  their 
stimulating  properties.  Usually  they  have  little  or  no  energy 
value,  but  when  made  with  milk,  eggs,  cocoa,  chocolate  or 
other  highly  nutritive  materials,  they  become  a  valuable 
means  of  administering  food  in  a  liquid  form. 

All  beverages  need  to  be  made  with  much  care  and  served 
daintily.  Hot  drinks  should  be  served  at  a  temperature  of 
1^-140°  F.  When  water  is  used  it  should  be  freshly 
drawn,  brought  to  a  boil  and  used  at  once.  This  serves  to 
sterilize  it  and  also  to  develop  a  better  flavor. 

Cold  drinks  should  be  given  thoroughly  cooled,  but  iced 
liquids  lower  the  temperature  of  the  stomach  unless  sipped 
very  slowly,  and  thus  tend  to  retard  digestion.  They  are 
therefore  better  for  serving  between  meals  than  with  them. 
Do  not  use  ice  in  a  beverage  unless  it  is  made  from  pure  water, 
but  cool  by  placing  the  receptacle  on  ice.  Use  a  separate 
spoon,  and  taste  every  beverage  just  before  serving  to  be  sure 
it  is  properly  seasoned  and  of  correct  temperature. 

Never  allow  a  drink  to  stand  any  length  of  time  in  a  sick 
room.  If  it  has  to  be  carried  any  distance,  be  sure  that  it 
is  covered. 

iSee  Water,  page  23. 

109 


110  BEVERAGES 


ACID  BEVERAGES 

Beverages  made  from  fruit  juices  are  cooling  and  refresh- 
ing, and  hence  especially  grateful  to  fever  patients.  They 
are  valuable  for  the  organic  acids,  mineral  matter,  and  sugar 
which  they  contain.  Some  of  them,  as  lemonade  and  orange- 
ade, have  an  added  value  in  their  diuretic  and  diaphoretic 
action.  The  organic  acids  are  useful  in  constipation,  as  they 
stimulate  peristaltic  action.  These  acids  vary  with  the  kind 
of  fruit ;  thus,  apples  contain  malic  acid ;  lemons,  citric  acid ; 
grapes,  tartaric  acid,  etc.  These  acids,  as  elsewhere  stated,1 
occur  in  the  form  of  acid  salts,  usually  of  potassium,  and  in 
the  body  are  changed  to  carbonates,  which  preserve  the  alka- 
linity of  the  blood.  Eipe  pineapple  juice  contains  a  ferment 
capable  of  digesting  proteins. 

Wash  lemons  and  oranges,  and  in  using  the  juice  remove 
the  seeds,  as  they  give  a  bitter  taste.  When  the  rind  of  lemon 
or  orange  is  undesirable  medicinally,  it  should  not  be  used. 

Serve  acid  beverages  daintily  in  glasses  or  sherbet  cups 
(three-fourths  filled),  pass  on  small  tray  or  plate,  covered 
with  doily,  and  add  a  few  wafer  crackers,  or  a  single  flower. 

Sweetening  Acid  Drinks.  For  the  diabetic,  sugar  must  be 
replaced  by  Sweetina. 

Whenever  cold  water  is  to  be  used  instead  of  very  hot  or 
boiling  water  in  preparing  the  drinks,  it  is  preferable  to  use 
u  sugar  syrup  "  for  sweetening  in  place  of  sugar,  which  re- 
quires time  for  solution. 

As  the  acidity  of  fruit  varies  considerably  with  the  kind, 
and  with  the  season  of  year,  this  fact  must  be  borne  in  mind 
while  preparing  the  foregoing  recipes,  otherwise  too  much 
sugar  may  be  added. 

SUGAR  SYRUP,  420  CALORIES 

y2  cup  of  sugar.  y2  cup  of  boiling  water. 

Mix  the  sugar  and  water  and  stir  until  the  sugar  is  dis- 

*See  Mineral  Matter,  p.  31. 


ACID  BEVERAGES  111 

solved.     Boil  slowly,  without  stirring,  for  fifteen  minutes; 
cool  slightly  and  bottle. 

LEMONADE,  137  CALORIES 
1  lemon.  2  tablespoons  sugar. 

%  cup  boiling  water.  %  thin  slice  lemon. 

Wash  and  wipe  lemon;  cut  a  very  thin  slice  from  middle. 
Squeeze  juice  into  a  bowl  (keeping  back  the  seeds),  add  the 
sugar  and  boiling  water;  cover,  and  put  on  ice  to  cool. 
Strain  and  pour  into  a  glass  or  sherbet  cup. 

Cut  half  the  slice  of  lemon  into  two  pieces,  and  use  as 
garnish  in  glass;  or  a  few  berries  or  slice  of  orange  may  be 
used. 

Xote. —  The  quantity  of  sugar  used  depends  upon  the 
acidity  of  fruit.  For  fruit  lemonade  add  fresh  fruit  of  all 
kinds  to  strong  lemonade,  using  boiling  water  for  the  beverage, 
cool,  and  chill  on  ice. 

LACTOSE  LEMONADE,i  480  CALORIES 

4  ounces  of  milk  sugar   (about  8  tablespoons) 
7  ounces  of  cold  water   (14  tablespoons) 
2  tablespoons  of  lemon  juice    (or  to  taste) 

Boil  the  sugar  and  water  for  two  minutes,  add  lemon  juice 
to  taste,  strain,  and  cool.  If  not  sweet  enough  add  1  or  2 
tablespoons  cane  sugar. 

SODA  OR  WHITE  ROCK  WATER  LEMONADE,  137  CALORIES 
Juice  of  1  lemon.  *4  teaspoon      soda,      free      from 

1  or  2  tablespoons  sugar.  lumps. 

%  cup   cold   water. 

Prepare  the  lemonade  to  taste,  cool  add  the  soda,  stir 
thoroughly,  and  drink  while  effervescing. 

Xote. —  Put  glass  on  plate  when  soda  is  added.  Water  and 
soda  may  be  omitted  and  White  Bock  Water  substituted. 

PINEAPPLE  LEMONADE.  186  CALORIES 

Jj  cup  grated  pineapple  or  juice.   %  cup  boiling  water. 
Juice  1  lemon.  1  cup  ice-cold  water. 

_  tablespoons  sugar. 

l  Dr.   W.   Coleman,  American  Journal  of  Medical  Sciences,  January,   1912. 


112  BEVERAGES 

Mix  pineapple,  lemon  juice  and  sugar,  and  add  the  boiling 
water.     Cool,  add  ice-cold  water,  strain  and  serve. 

Note. —  Canned  pineapple  may  be  used  or  pineapple 
juice. 

IRISH  MOSS  LEMONADE,  25  CALORIES  i 

!/i   cup  Irish  moss.  4  tablespoons  lemon  juice. 

2  cups  cold  water.  Sugar. 

Soak,  pick  over  and  wash  the  moss  (soaking  15  minutes). 
Drain  and  add  the  cold  water ;  cook  in  top  of  double  boiler 
about  20  minutes  or  until  syrupy.  If  it  becomes  too  thick, 
add  hot  water.  Strain,  add  the  lemon  juice  and  sugar  to 
taste.     Eeheat  and  serve  hot. 

Excellent  for  sore  throat  and  cold  on  the  lungs,  or  any 
inflammation  of  the  mucous  membrane. 

GRAPE  LEMONADE,  200  CALORIES 

Make  one  cup  lemonade,  rather  sweet,  add  one-fourth  cup 
grape  juice. 

EGG  LEMONADE 

See  "  Albuminous  Beverages  "  for  recipe.     Page  121. 

ORANGEADE,  197  CALORIES 

1  sour  orange.  2  tablespoons  sugar. 

y2  cup  boiling  water.  y2  slice  orange. 

Prepare  as  for  lemonade.  If  orange  is  not  very  acid,  add 
a  little  lemon  juice  or  use  less  sugar. 

ORANGEADE  NO.  II,  77   CALORIES 

Put  two  tablespoons  of  crushed  ice  in  dainty  glasses  and 
pour  the  juice  of  one  orange  over  it.     Sweeten  if  desired. 

FRUITADE,  45  CALORIES 

%  cup  grated  pineapple  1  cup  boiling  water. 

Juice  y2  lemon.  Sugar. 
Juice  y2  orange. 

Prepare  fruit.  Add  the  boiling  water  and  one  tablespoon 
sugar;  allow  to  stand  until  cool.  Add  more  water  or  sugar 
if  necessary.     Strain  and  serve  cold. 

1  Without  sugar. 


ACID  BEVERAGES  113 

PINEAPPLE  JUICE,  ABOUT  50  CALORIES 
%  cup  Pineapple  Juice.  Crushed  Ice. 

Pour  the  pineapple  juice  over  crushed  ice  and  serve  in 
dainty  glasses.  This  is  delicious  and  has  remedial  qualities; 
especially  valuable  in  throat  and  stomach  trouble. 

LEMON  WHEY,  96  CALORIES 

1  cup  hot  milk.  2  tablespoons  lemon  juice. 

2  teaspoons  sugar. 

Heat  the  milk  in  a  small  saucepan  over  hot  water,  or  in  a 
double-boiler.  Add  the  lemon  juice.  Cook  without  stirring 
until  the  whey  separates.  Strain  through  cheese-cloth,  and 
add  the  sugar.  Serve  hot  or  cold.  Garnish  with  small  pieces 
of  slice  of  lemon. 

WINE  WHEY,  84  CALORIES 
1  cup  sweet  milk.  }4  cup  sherry  wine. 

Heat  the  milk  to  boiling  point,  add  the  wine,  and  cook  with- 
out stirring  until  the  milk  separates.  Strain  through  a  fine 
strainer,  and  serve  hot  or  cold. 

ACID  PHOSPHATE 

Horsford's  Acid  Phosphate  is  a  solution  of  the  phosphates 
of  lime,  magnesia,  potash  and  iron  with  phosphoric  acid, 
in  such  form  as  to  be  readily  assimilated  by  the  system.  It 
is  thus  a  true  nerve  and  tissue  food. 

1  teaspoon  Horsford's  Acid  Phos-    1  cup  hot  or  cold  water, 
phate.  Sugar. 

Mix  the  Acid  Phosphate  with  the  water  and  sweeten  with 
sugar,  if  desired. 

If  the  above  should  seem  too  strong,  or  be  found  too  stimu- 
lating, use  one-half  teaspoon  of  the  Acid  Phosphate. 

Xote. —  Horsford's  Acid  Phosphate  can  be  substituted  for 
lemon  juice  in  any  of  the  acid  drinks. 

ACID  PHOSPHATE  WHEY,   56   CALORIES 

1  cup  hot  milk.  1  teaspoon  Horsford's  Acid  Phos- 

2  teaspoons  sugar.  phate. 


114  BEVERAGES 

Heat  the  milk  in  a  small  saucepan  over  hot  water  or  in 
a  double  boiler.  Add  the  Acid  Phosphate.  Cook  without 
stirring  until  the  whey  separates.  Strain  through  cheese- 
cloth and  add  the  sugar.  If  more  acid  is  desired,  add  two 
or  three  drops  of  Horsford's  Acid  Phosphate.  Serve  hot  or 
cold. 

CREAM  OF  TARTAR  DRINK 
1    or    iy2    teaspoons    Cream.  Lemon, 

of  Tartar.  Sugar. 

1  pint  boiling  water. 

Dissolve  the  cream  of  tartar  in  the  boiling  water,  and 
flavor  with  lemon  and  sugar.  When  cold  strain.  Take  as  a 
refrigerant  drink  and  diuretic. 

MALTED  MILK  AND  CURRANT  JELLY,  85   CALORIES 

1    tablespoon    Horlick's    Malted    1  tablespoon  currant  jelly. 

Milk.  %  cup  cold  water. 

14  cup  boiling  water.  Cracked  ice. 

Mix  the  malted  milk  powder  with  a  little  of  the  boiling 
water  to  make  a  smooth  paste,  add  the  jelly  and  the  rest  of 
the  water,  and  stir  till  the  jelly  is  dissolved.  Add  the  cold 
water  and. ice,  strain  and  serve  daintily  in  glass  or  sherbet 
cup,  partly  filled,  and  set  on  a  small  plate  with  doily. 

MALTED    MILK   WITH  WINE,    88    CALORIES 

1     tablespoon    Horlick's    Malted  1  teaspoon  port  or  sherry  wine. 

Milk.  1  teaspoon  sugar. 
1  cup  hot  water. 

Mix  the  malted  milk  powder  with  enough  of  the  hot  water 
to  make  a  smooth  paste,  then  add  gradually  the  rest  of  the 
hot  water,  the  wine,  and  sugar  if  desired. 

JELLY  AND  ICE 
With  a  large  needle  or  pin,  chip  half  a  cup  of  ice  into 
bits  as  large  as  a  pea  (or  use  an  ice-scraper).  Mix  with  it 
about  the  same  quantity  of  lemon,  currant,  blackberry,  or 
barberry  jelly.  Very  refreshing  in  fevers.  Be  sure  ice  is 
perfectly  pure. 


ACID  BET  EX  ACES  115 

GRAPE    WATER,   135    CALORIES  i 
4  tablespoons  grape  jelly.  %  cup  cold  water. 

y2  cup  boiling  water.  Lemon  juice  and  sugar. 

Dissolve  the  jelly  in  the  boiling  water,  then  add  the  cold 
water,  season  to  taste.     Serve  ice  cold. 

CURRANT  WATER,   100-125   CALORIES  i 
r4  cup  currant  juice  or  ys  cup  cold  water. 

4  tablespoons  currant  jelly.  Lemon  juice  and  r.ugar. 

\2  cup  boiling  water. 

Dissolve  the  jelly  in  the  boiling  water  (put  over  heat  a 
few  moments  if  it  does  not  dissolve  quickly).  When  dis- 
solved add  the  cold  water,  sweeten  to  taste,  and  add  a  little 
lemon  juice,  if  desired.     Serve  cold. 

APPLE,  WATER,  25  CALORIES  i 
1  sour  apple.  Lemon  juice. 

1  cup  boiling  water.  Sugar. 

Wipe  a  rosy-cheeked  sour  apple,  and,  without  paring  it, 
cut  it  into  small  pieces.  Add  the  boiling  water  and  one  table- 
spoon sugar.  Cover,  and  let  it  stand  till  cold,  then  strain, 
and  add  lemon  juice  and  sugar  to  taste.     Serve  cold. 

Xote. —  Dried  apple  may  be  substituted,  or  two  baked  ap- 
ples. 

RHUBARB   WATER,    15   CALORIES  i 
1  stalk  rhubarb.  Lemon  juice. 

1  cup  boiling  water.  Sugar. 

Wash  and  wipe  the  rhubarb,  and  cut  in  thin  slices,  leaving 
on  the  skin.  Add  the  boiling  water  and  one  tablespoon  sugar. 
<  r,  and  let  stand  till  cold.  Strain,  add  lemon  juice  and 
sugar  to  taste,  and  serve  cold. 

TAMARIND  WATER,  60  CALORIES  - 

2  tablespoons     preserved    tama-    1  cup  boiling  water, 
rinds.  Sugar. 

Pour  the  water  over  the  tamarinds  and  let  stand  one-half 
hour.     Sweeten  to  taste,  strain  and  serve  cold. 

rout  lemon  juice  or  sugar. 

hout  sugar.      Estimated  from  average  composition  of  preserves. 


116  BEVERAGES 

TAMARIND  MALTED  MILK,  115  CALORIES 

2    tablespoons    Horlick's    Malted    %  cup  hot  water. 
Milk.  y2  cup  cold  water. 

1  tablespoon  tamarinds.  Cracked  ice. 

Make  a  smooth  paste  of  the  malted  milk  powder  and  hot 
water,  add  preserved  tamarinds  and  the  cold  water.  Strain 
and  chill,  or  add  pure  cracked  ice. 

GRAPE  JTJICE 

(i/2  cup  =  120  Calories.); 

Partially  fill  a  small  glass  with  crushed  ice,  and  add  grape 
juice  and  serve. 

Grape  juice  is  a  tonic  food  and  a  medicine  for  the  sick 
and  convalescent.  It  may  be  served  plain,  cold  or  hot,  or 
diluted  with  one-third  water.  It  is  preferable  to  keep  and 
serve  the  juice  very  cold.  The  bottles  may  be  kept  on  ice 
until  ready  to  serve. 

GRAPE  LITHIA,  75  CALORIES 

Pour  one  ounce  of  grape  juice  into  a  glass,  dissolve  in 
it  two  teaspoons  of  sugar,  and  add  four  ounces  of  lithia 
water. 

GRAPE  NECTAR,  2750  CALORIES 

(About  2  quarts) 

Boil  together  one  pound  of  sugar  and  one-half  pint  of 
water  until  it  spins  a  thread ;  remove  from  the  fire,  and  when 
cool,  add  the  juice  of  six  lemons  and  one  quart  of  grape 
juice.  Let  stand  over  night.  Serve  with  ice  water,  White 
Rock  water  or  plain  soda. 

TEA  PUNCH 

Pew  beverages  find  readier  favor  during  the  hot  weather 
than  tea  punch.  To  make  it,  pour  boiling  lemonade,  sweet- 
ened to  taste,  over  the  tea  leaves,  and  allow  the  liquid  to  stand 
until  cold.  Then  strain  and  serve  in  tall  glasses,  with  shaved 
ice  and  slices  of  lemon. 


ACID  BEVERAGES  117. 

FRUIT  PUNCH,  2100  CALORIES 
(3   Quarts.) 

2  large  teaspoons  tea.  3  oranges. 

2  quarts  boiling  water.  1  pineapple. 

1  pound  lump  sugar.  5  bananas. 

8  lemons.  1  pint  strawberries. 

Steep  the  tea  in  the  boiling  water  for  five  minutes,  strain 
and  add  the  sugar,  stirring  until  thoroughly  dissolved.  Grate 
the  rind  of  the  lemons  and  extract  all  the  juice.  Cut  the 
oranges  into  slices,  shred  the  pineapple,  slice  the  bananas 
very  thin  and  hull  the  strawberries.  When  the  tea  is  cold 
add  all  the  fruit,  and  let  stand  in  the  refrigerator  for  several 
hours.  Place  a  cube  of  ice  in  the  punch-bowl,  pour  the  mix- 
ture around  it,  and  when  well  chilled  serve  in  punch  glasses. 
If  desired,  one  cup  of  Maraschino  cherries  may  be  added. 

To  get  the  best  results  from  the  pineapple,  pare  and  remove 
the  eyes,  tear  apart  with  a  silver  knife  and  fork,  reject  the 
core,  sprinkle  with  sugar  and  let  stand  on  ice  for  twelve 
hours. 

While  fresh  fruits  are  always  preferable,  canned  berries 
and  pineapples  may  be  substituted. 

TUTTI-FRUTTI  PUNCH,  2300  CALORIES 

(3   Quarts.) 

2  quarts  water.  2  tangerine  oranges. 

1  pound  sugar.  4  slices  pineapple. 

2  lemons.  1  banana. 

4  oranges.  1  pint  Maraschino  cherries. 

2  dozen  Malaga  grapes. 

Boil  together  for  five  minutes  the  water  and  sugar.  Add 
the  grated  rind  of  two  lemons  and  four  oranges,  and  continue 
boiling  for  ten  minutes  longer.  Strain  the  syrup  through 
eheese-cloth,  and  add  one  quart  of  cold  water.  Extract  the 
juice  from  the  lemons  and  oranges,  strain  and  mix  with  two 
dozen  Malaga  grapes,  cut  in  half  and  seeded,  the  tangerine 
oranges  sliced,  the  pineapple  shredded,  the  banana  cut  in 
slices,  and  one  pint  bottle  of  Maraschino  cherries  with  their 


118  BEVERAGES 

liquor.     Add  the  fruit  to  the  syrup,  chill  and  serve  same  as 
Fruit  Punch. 

ALBUMINOUS  BEVERAGES 

When  a  large  amount  of  nutriment  is  required  the  al- 
buminized drinks  are  valuable. 

The  egg  is  a  fluid  food  until  its  albumin  is  coagulated  by 
heat.  Often  the  white  of  egg,  dissolved  in  water  or  milk, 
and  flavored,  is  given  when  the  yolk  cannot  be  digested,  as 
30  per  cent,  of  the  yolk  is  fat.  Egg-nog  is  very  nutritious, 
and  is  extensively  prescribed  in  certain  non-febrile  diseases, 
especially  for  the  forced  alimentation  of  phthisis  and  melan- 
cholia. There  are  occasional  cases  of  bilious  habit,  in  which 
eggs  to  be  digested  must  be  beaten  in  wine.  But  the  combi- 
nation of  egg,  milk  and  sugar  with  alcohol,  which  constitutes 
egg-nog,  is  apt  to  produce  nausea  and  vomiting  in  a  feeble 
stomach,  especially  in  fever.  lor  this  reason  whole  eggs  are 
unfit  for  fever  patients,  and  the  whites  only  should  be  used. 

Albuminized  drinks  are  most  easily  prepared  cold.  When 
a  hot  liquid  is  used,  it  must  be  poured  very  slowly  into  the 
well-beaten  egg,  stirring  constantly,  so  that  lumps  of  coagu- 
lated albumin  do  not  form. 

For  the  Diabetic.  In  all  the  albuminous  drinks  substitute 
Sweetina  for  the  sugar.  The  fuel  value  will  be  60  calories 
less  in  every  recipe  than  when  one  tablespoon  of  sugar  is 
used. 

ENERGY  VALUE  OF  AN  EGG  i 

Calories               Calories  Calories 

1  egg   (without  shell)    small  60         medium  73  large  80  2 

1  white    of   egg 13                         18  30 

1  yolk  of  egg 48                         55  50 

EGG  BROTH,  319  CALORIES  3 
Yolk   1   egg.  1   tablespoon  sugar.  Speck  salt. 

1  cup  hot  milk.  Brandy  or  some  other  stimulant  if  required. 

Beat  egg,  add  sugar  and  salt.  Pour  on  carefully  the  hot 
milk.  Flavor  as  desired,  if  with  brandy  or  wine,  use  about 
one  tablespoon. 

1  Range  from  60  to  100  calories  according  to  size  of  egg. 

2  According  to  Dr.  W.  Coleman. 

3  Calculated  with  1  tbsp.  brandy.     277  Calories  if  brandy  is  omitt<  , 


ALBUMINOUS  BEVERAGES  119 

Note. —  Dried  and  rolled  bread  crumbs  may  be  added,  if 
desired.  The  whole  egg  may  be  used.  Hot  water,  broth  or 
coffee,  may  be  substituted  for  the  milk;  nutmeg  may  be  sub- 
stituted for  the  stimulant. 

EGG-NOG  NO.  I,  231  CALORIES  i 
1  egg.  %  cup  milk. 

Speck  salt.  1%   tablespoon  wine  or 

%  tablespoon  sugar.  1   tablespoon  brandy    (or  less). 

Beat  the  egg,  add  the  sugar  and  salt ;  blend  thoroughly,  add 
the  milk  and  liquor.     Serve  immediately. 

Note. —  Have  eggs  and  milk  chilled  before  blending.  A 
grating  of  nutmeg  may  be  substituted  for  the  stimulant.  A 
lemonade  shaker  may  be  used  for  the  blending. 

EGG-NOG  NO.  II,  231   CALORIES  i 

1  egg.  %  cup  milk. 

%  tablespoon  sugar.  1  tablespoon  brandy   (or  less). 

Speck   salt. 

Separate  egg.  Beat  yolk,  add  sugar  and  salt,  and  beat  until 
creamy.  Add  the  milk  and  brandy.  Beat  the  white  till 
foamy  (not  stiff  and  dry),  and  fold  it  in  lightly.  Serve  im- 
mediately. 

JUNKET  EGG-NOG,  289  CALORIES  i 
1  egg.  2     teaspoons     rum,     brandy,     or 

1  cup  milk.  wine. 

1  tablespoon   sugar.  %  Hansen's  Junket  Tablet. 

Beat  white  and  yolk  of  egg  separately,  very  light;  blend 
the  two.  Add  the  sugar  dissolved  in  the  rum.  Heat  the 
milk  lukewarm,  stir  into  the  egg  mixture,  and  add  quickly 
the  tablet  dissolved  in  cold  water.  Pour  into  small  warm 
glasses,  and  sprinkle  grated  nutmeg  over  the  top.  Stand  in 
warm  room  undisturbed  until  firm,  and  then  put  on  ice  to 
cool.     This  can  be  retained  by  the  most  delicate  stomach. 

1  Without  liquor. 


120  BEVERAGES 

BEEF  EGG-NOG,  200  CALORIES 

1  egg.  y2  cup  hot  beef  broth. 

Speck  salt.  1   tablespoon  brandy. 
1  tablespoon  sugar. 

Beat  the  egg  slightly,  add  the  salt  and  sugar;  add  grad- 
ually the  hot  broth;  add  brandy  and  strain.  Sugar  and 
brandy  may  be  omitted  if  preferred. 

COFFEE   EGG-NOG,   175   CALORIES  i 

1  egg.  yz  scant  cup  milk  or  cream. 

1%  teaspoon  sugar.  y2  scant  cup  strong  coffee. 

Chill  ingredients,  and  blend  as  for  Egg-nog  No.  II. 

PINEAPPLE  EGG-NOG 
Prepare  as  per  Egg-nog  No.  I  or  II ;  omit  the  brandy  and 
use  pineapple  juice  to  taste. 

EGG  AND  RUM,  315  CALORIES 
Famous  in  the  Treatment  of  Phthisis 
1  cup  fresh  milk.  Speck  salt. 

Yolk  1  egg.  Few  grains  nutmeg. 

1  tablespoon   sugar.  1  tablespoon  rum. 

Beat  yolk,  add  sugar,  salt  and  nutmeg;  add  milk  and  rum. 

Note. —  For  consumptives,  taken  at  about  6  a.  m.,  often 
prevents  the  exhausting  sweats  which  accompany  the  morn- 
ing doze.  Also  may  be  given  to  a  patient  before  dressing  to 
prevent  exhaustion. 

EGG  AND  BRANDY,  350  CALORIES  2 

3  eggs.  4  tablespoons  brandy. 

4  tablespoons  cold  water.  Sugar. 
Nutmeg. 

Beat  the  eggs,  add  cold  water,  brandy  and  sweeten  to  taste. 
A  little  nutmeg  may  be  added.  Give  a  tablespoonful  at  a 
time. 

EGG  AND  WINE,  125  CALORIES  2 
1  egg.  1  wineglass  sherry. 

%  cup  cold  water.  Nutmeg. 

Sugar. 

1  Calculated  with  milk. 

2  Without  sugar. 


ALBUMINOUS  BEVERAGES  121 

Beat  the  egg.  Heat  the  water  and  wine  together  but  not 
boiling;  pour  onto  the  eggf  stirring  constantly;  flavor  with 
sugar  and  nutmeg. 

EGG  LEMONADE,   192   CALORIES 

1  egg.  2  tablespoons  lemon  juice. 

2  tablespoons  sugar.  1  cup  cold  water. 

Beat  the  egg  thoroughly,  add  the  sugar  and  lemon  juice; 
pour  in  gradually  the  water,  stirring  until  smooth  and  well 
mixed.  Strain  and  serve.  Two  tablespoons  of  sherry  or  port 
may  be  added  if  desired. 

MALTED  MILK  AND  EGG,  120  CALORIES 

1     tablespoon     Horlick's     Malted  20  drops  acid  phosphate. 
Milk.  1   tablespoon  crushed  ice, 

1  tablespoon    crushed    fruit.  %  cup  ice  water. 

1  egg. 

Mix  the  malted  milk  powder,  crushed  fruit  and  egg  and 
beat  live  minutes.  Add  the  phosphate  and  crushed  ice,  blend- 
ing thoroughly.  Strain  and  add  ice  water  or  cold  carbonated 
water,  and  a  grating  of  nutmeg  to  flavor. 

STOKES  MIXTURE 
Eggs  and  Brandy  =196  Calories. 

"  2  egg  yolks,  50  c.  c.  of  brandy,  120  c.  c.  of  aqua  aurantii 
florun  (sugar  or  syrup  enough  to  sweeten),  has  consider- 
able nutritive,  as  well  as  stimulative,  value,  and  is  eligible 
for  use  when  such  a  combination  is  indicated." 

GRAPE    YOLK,    150    CALORIES 

1  eg  Speck  salt. 

1  tablespoon  sugar.  2  tablespoons  grape  juice. 

Separate  egg.  Beat  yolk,  add  sugar  and  stand  aside  while 
the  white  is  thoroughly  whipped.  Add  the  grape  juice  to  the 
yolk  and  pour  this  onto  the  whipped  white,  blending  care- 
fully. Serve  cold.  Have  all  ingredients  chilled  before  blend- 
ing. 


122  BEVERAGES 

GEAPE  JUICE  AND  EGG,  270  CALORIES 
1  egg.  1  tablespoon   sugar. 

y2  cup  rich  milk.  *4  cup  grape  juice. 

Beat  yolk  and  white  separately  very  light.  To  the  yolk 
add  milk,  sugar  and  grape  juice,  and  pour  into  glass.  To  the 
white  add  a  little  powdered  sugar  and  a  taste  of  grape  juice. 
Serve  on  yolk  mixture.     Chill  all  ingredients  before  using. 

MULLED  WINE,  250-280  CALORIES 
1   ounce  stick  cinnamon.  y2  cup    sherry,    port,    or    claret 

A  slight  grating  nutmeg.  wine. 

y2  cup  boiling  water.  2  tablespoons    sugar. 

1  egg. 

Put  the  spices  into  top  of  a  double  boiler  with  the  water. 
Cover  and  cook  over  hot  water  ten  minutes.  Add  wine  to  the 
spiced  water  and  bring  to  the  boiling  point.  Beat  the  egg 
to  a  stiff  froth,  add  sugar  and  pour  on  the  mulled  wine,  and 
beat  well.     Serve  at  once. 

ALBUMINIZED  MILK,  98  CALORIES 
y2  cup  milk    (sterile).  Salt. 

White  1  egg. 

Put  milk  and  white  of  egg  in  a  glass  fruit  jar,  cover  with 
air  tight  cap  and  rubber  band.  Shake  until  thoroughly 
blended.  Strain  into  glass.  A  few  grains  of  salt  may  be  added 
if  desired.   Two  teaspoons  of  Sanatogen  added  =  30  calories. 

Note. —  The  blending  may  be  done  in  a  lemonade  shaker. 

ALBUMINIZED  WATER,    13   CALORIES  1 

y2  cup  ice-cold  water  Lemon  juice. 

(boiled  and  chilled).  Sugar. 

White  1  egg. 

Blend  as  for  "  Albuminized  Milk/'  serve  plain  or  add  lemon 
juice  and  sugar  to  taste.  If  set  on  ice  to  keep  cool,  shake  be- 
fore serving.   Two  teaspoons  of  Sanatogen  added  =  30  calories. 

ALBUMIN  WATER  (FOR  INFANTS),  13  CALORIES 
Albumin  water  is  utilized  chiefly  in  cases  of  acute  stomach 
and  intestinal  disorders  in  which  some  nutritious  and  easily 

1  Without  lemon  juice  or  sugar. 


ALBUMINOUS  BEVERAGES  123 

assimilated  food  is  needed;  albumin  water  is  then  very  useful. 
The  white  of  one  egg  is  dissolved  in  eight  ounces  or  a  pint 
of  water  which  has  been  boiled  and  cooled. —  Koplik. 

ALBUMINIZED  CLAM  WATER,  18  CALORIES 

1  cup  cold  water.  White  1  egg. 
Clam  Broth. 

To  the  water  add  the  required  amount  of  the  clam  broth 
to  make  the  strength  desired,  add  the  unbeaten  white  of  egg, 
and  follow  general  directions  for  "  Albuminized  Milk." 
Serve  cold  in  dainty  glasses.  This  is  a  very  nutritious  drink, 
and  will  be  retained  by  the  stomach  when  other  nourishment 
is  rejected. 

Xote. —  Milk  may  be  substituted  for  the  water. 

ALBUMINIZED  ORANGE,  30  CALORIES  i 
White  1  egg.  Sugar. 

Juice   1   orange. 

To  the  unbeaten  white  add  the  orange  juice,  sweeten  to 
taste  and  blend  thoroughly.  Strain  and  set  on  ice  to  cool. 
Serve  cold. 

ALBUMINIZED  SHERRY,  22  CALORIES  l 
White   1  egg.  Sugar. 

%  tablespoon  sherry. 

Beat  the  white  stiff,  add  slowly,  while  beating,  the  wine  and 
sugar.     Serve  cold. 

Xote. —  Have  all  ingredients  cold  before  blending. 

ALBUMINIZED  GRAPE  JUICE,  40  CALORIES  i 

2  tablespoons  grape  Sugar, 
juice.  Chopped  ice. 

White  1  egg. 

Put  in  a  dainty  glass  the  grape  juice,  and  the  beaten  white 
of  egg  and  a  little  pure  chopped  ice;  sprinkle  sugar  over  the 
top  and  serve. 

1  "Without  sugar. 


124  BEVERAGES 


STARCHY  BEVERAGES 

Starchy  drinks  consist  of  cereals  or  cereal  products,  cooked 
thoroughly  in  a  large  amount  of  water  and  strained  before 
serving.  Arrowroot,  cornstarch,  tapioca,  rice  and  rice  flour 
are  nearly  pure  starch.  Oats,  barley  and  wheat  in  forms 
which  include  the  whole  grains  contain  besides  starch  some 
protein  and  fat,  and  also  valuable  mineral  matter,  especially 
phosphorus,  iron,  and  calcium  salts.1  In  starchy  drinks, 
these  ingredients  are  necessarily  present  in  small  amounts; 
hence  they  have  little  energy  value,  unless  milk  or  other 
highly  nutritive  material  is  added.  Such  drinks  are  of  value 
when  only  a  small  quantity  of  nutriment  can  be  taken. 

Principles  of  Cooking.  As  the  chief  ingredient  is  starch, 
long  cooking  is  necessary,  in  water  at  a  high  temperature 
(212°  F.),  which  softens  the  cellulose,  and  breaks  open  the 
starch  grains,  changing  the  insoluble  starch  to  soluble  starch 
and  dextrin,  so  that  it  can  be  very  readily  digested.  Time 
of  cooking  should  be  conscientiously  kept  by  the  clock. 

Digestion.  The  action  of  ptyalin  is  very  rapid,  and  if  these 
drinks  are  sipped  slowly,  so  as  to  be  thoroughly  mixed  with 
saliva,  a  considerable  portion  of  starch  may  be  changed  to 
sugar  before  reaching  the  intestines. 

BARLEY  WATER,  180  CALORIES 

2  tablespoons  pearl  barley.  1  quart  cold  water. 

Wash  barley,  add  cold  water  and  let  soak  several  hours  or 
over  night;  in  same  water,  boil  gently  over  direct  heat  two 
hours,  or  in  a  double  boiler  steadily  four  hours,  down  to  one 
pint  if  used  for  infant  feeding,  and  to  one  cup  for  the  adult. 
Strain  through  muslin. 

Note. —  Cream  or  milk  and  salt  may  be  added,  or  lemon 
juice  and  sugar.  Barley  water  is  an  astringent  or  demulcent 
drink  used  to  reduce  laxative  condition. 

*See  Mineral  Matter,  p.  31. 


STARCHY  BEVERAGES  125 

BARLEY  WATER  (INFANT  FEEDING),  19  CALORIES 

1  teaspoon   barley    Hour.  1  pint  boiling  water. 

2  tablespoons   cold   water. 

Blend  flour  and  cold  water  to  a  smooth  paste  in  top  of 
double  boiler;  add  gradually  the  boiling  waier.  Boil  over 
direct  heat  five  minutes,  stirring  constantly,  then  put  over 
boiling  water  and  cook  15  minutes  longer,  stirring  frequently. 
Older  infants  take  the  barley  water  in  much  more  concentrated 
form.  Barley  water  is  used  as  a  diluent  with  normal  infants 
and  in  forms  of  diarrhoea. 

Note. —  For  children  or  adults,  use  ^  tablespoon  barley  or 
rice  flour,  1  cup  boiling  water,  y±  teaspoon  salt. 

RICE  WATER,  100  CALORIES  » 

2  tablespoons  rice.  Salt. 

3  cups  cold   water.  Milk. 

Wash  the  rice;  add  cold  water  and  soak  thirty  minutes, 
heat  gradually  to  boiling  point  and  cook  one  hour  or  until 
rice  is  tender.  Strain,  reheat  and  dilute  with  boiling  water 
or  hot  milk  to  desired  consistency.     Season  with  salt. 

e. —  Sugar  may  be  added  if  desired,  and  cinnamon,  if 
allowed,  may  be  cooked  with  it,  and  will  assist  in  reducing  a 
laxative  condition. 

RICE  WATER  NO.  II,  160  CALORIES 
3  tablespoons  rice.  1  tablespoon  stoned  raisins. 

1  pint  boiling  water. 

Wash  rice,  put  into  saucepan  with  water  and  raisins ;  boil 
gently  for  one  hour.  Strain.  When  colcl  serve.  Sugar  or 
salt  may  be  added  to  taste. 

Xote. —  Do  not  use  raisins  in  bowel  trouble. 

OATMEAL  WATER,  50  CALORIES 
1   tablespoon    oatmeal.  Speck  salt. 

1  tablespoon  cold  water.  1  quart  boiling  water. 

Mix  oatmeal  and  cold  water,  add  salt  and  stir  into  the 
boiling  water.     Boil  three  hours:  replenish  the  water  as  it 

1  Without  milk. 


126  BEVERAGES 

boils  away.  Strain  through  a  fine  sieve  or  cheese  cloth. 
Season,  serve  cold.  Different  brands  of  oatmeal  vary  consid- 
erably in  the  amount  of  water  which  they  take  up  in  cooking, 
and  sufficient  should  always  be  added  to  make  this  drink  al- 
most as  thin  as  water. 

OATMEAL  WATER   NO.  II,   220   CALORIES  i 


Use  sterile  water  (boiled  and  cooled).  Add  oatmeal  and 
stand  in  warm  place  (covered),  for  one  and  one-half  hours. 
Strain,  season,  and  cool.     Sometimes  used  for  dyspeptics. 

TOAST  WATER,  350  CALORIES 

1  cup  stale  bread  toasted.  Salt. 

1  cup  boiling  water. 

Cut  bread  in  thin  slices  and  in  inch  squares.  Dry  thor- 
oughly in  oven  until  crisp  and  a  delicate  brown.  Measure, 
and  break  into  crumbs;  add  the  water  and  let  it  stand  one 
hour.  Eub  through  a  fine  strainer,  season  and  serve  hot  or 
cold.  The  nourishment  of  the  bread  is  easily  absorbed  in 
this  way  and  valuable  in  cases  of  fever  or  extreme  nausea. 

^N"ote. —  Milk  or  cream  and  sugar  may  be  added. 

CRUST   COFFEE 

Take  some  pieces  and  crusts  of  brown  bread  and  dry  them 
in  a  slow  oven  until  thoroughly  hard  and  crisp.  Place  in  a 
mortar  and  pound  or  roll.  Pour  boiling  water  over  and  let 
soak  for  about  fifteen  minutes.  This  when  strained  carefully 
is  very  acceptable-  to  invalids  who  are  tired  of  the  ordinary 
drinks,  such  as  lemonade,  etc. 

CRACKER  PANADA,  100  CALORIES  2 

4  hard  crackers.  Sugar. 

1  quart  water. 

Break  crackers  into  pieces  and  bake  quite  brown ;  add  water 
and  boil  fifteen  minutes,  allow  to  stand  three  or  four  minutes. 
Strain  off  the  liquid  through  a  fine  wire  sieve;  season  with  salt 

1  Estimated  on  one-half  the   oatmeal. 

2  Without  sugar. 


MISCELLANEOUS  BEVERAGES  127 

and  a  little  sugar.  This  is  a  nourishing  beverage  for  infants 
that  are  teething,  and  with  the  addition  of  a  little  wine  and 
nutmeg,  is  often  prescribed  for  invalids  recovering  from  a 
fever. 

BREAD   PANADA,   162   CALORIES 
1'..   tups  water.  *4  cup  white  wine. 

1   tablespoon   sugar.  1   tablespoon  lemon  juice. 

J  tablespoons   stale  white  bread    Nutmeg, 
crumbs. 

Put  water  and  sugar  on  to  cook,  just  before  it  commences 
to  boil  add  the  bread  crumbs;  stir  well,  and  let  it  boil  three 
or  four  minutes.  Add  the  wine,  lemon  and  a  grating  of  nut- 
meg; let  it  boil  up  once,  remove  from  fire,  and  keep  it  closely 
covered  until  it  is  wanted  for  use. 

MISCELLANEOUS  BEVERAGES 

TEA  —  COFFEE —CHOCOLATE  —  COCOA   AND    SPECIAL   N0N-NTJ- 

TRITIVE  BEVERAGES 

TEA 

Source.  The  tea  of  commerce  is  prepared  from  the  leaves 
of  a  shrub  cultivated  for  this  purpose  in  China,  Japan,  India, 
Ceylon,  and  other  portions  of  Southern  and  Eastern  Asia. 

Classes  of  Tea.  There  are  two  great  classes  of  tea,  the 
green  and  the  black.  The  difference  lies  in  the  mode  of 
preparation.  Green  teas  are  quickly  dried  and  fired ;  black 
teas  are  allowed  to  ferment  a  few  hours  before  drying  and 
firing. 

Activi  Principles  of  Tra.  Tea  has  practically  no  food 
value.  Its  principal  constituents  are  caffein,  tannic  acid,  and 
a  volatile  oil. 

Its  flavor  i>  due  to  the  volatile  oil;  its  stimulating  prop- 
to  the  caffein.     Tannic  a<  id  is  a  soluble,  bitter  sub- 
stance, which  has  a  retarding  effect  on  digestion. 

When  tea  leaves  are  placed  in  boiling  water,  caffein  i- 
tracted  very  rapidly.     Tannic  acid  is  less  soluble,  and  there- 
fore it  is  possible  to  make  tea  with  little  of  thifl  principle  by 
letting  the  water  stand  on  the  leaves  only  a  short  time.     In 


128  BEVERAGES 

practice,  the  hot,  but  not  boiling  water,  should  stand  on  the 
tea  from  3  to  5  minutes.  The  water  should  be  soft,  as 
lime  in  hard  water  tends  to  make  tannin  dissolve  more  freely. 
Green  or  mixed  tea  is  more  powerful  than  black  tea. 

Effects  of  Tea.  Tea  is  mildly  stimulating  and  hence  re- 
freshing, as  it  removes  the  sense  of  bodily  fatigue.  But  the 
tannic  acid  retards  the  digestive  action  of  the  saliva  and  gas- 
tric juice,  and  tends  to  produce  constipation.  Tea  is  there- 
fore not  suitable  for  persons  suffering  from  gastric  disorders. 
The  caffein  is  over-stimulating  to  the  nervous  system  of 
many  persons,  causing  restlessness,  sleeplessness  and  muscular 
tremors.  It  should  not  be  given  to  children,  nor  to  adults 
with  a  tendency  to  nervousness.  If  you  wish  to  avoid  the 
retarding  effect  of  tea  on  salivary  digestion,  direct  the  patient 
not  to  sip  the  beverage  with  the  meal,  but  to  eat  first  and 
drink  afterward;  in  this  way  time  is  given  for  the  saliva 
to  perform  its  intended  functions. 

Tea  is  less  likely  to  cause  sleeplessness  if  lemon  juice  is 
substituted  for  milk. 

COFFEE 

Source.  This  beverage  is  prepared  from  the  seeds  of  the 
coffee  tree  (Caffea  arabica),  which  grows  in  many  warm 
countries,  though  originally  found  in  Arabia.  The  coffee 
berry  is  about  the  color  and  size  of  a  ripe  cherry,  and  con- 
tains two  seeds  placed  face  to  face. 

Active  Principles  of  Coffee.  The  active  principles  of  cof- 
fee are  essentially  the  same  as  those  in  tea.  By  the  roasting 
process  a  volatile  oil  is  liberated  (called  caffeol)  to  which  the 
aroma  is  due.  The  caffein  is  chemically  the  same  as  in  tea, 
and  according  to  Hutchison  (p.  310),  a  cup  of  black  coffee 
contains  about  as  large  a  quantity  of  caffein  and  tannic  acid 
as  a  cup  of  tea. 

Effects  of  Coffee.  Coffee  has  only  a  slight  retarding  in- 
fluence on  salivary  digestion,  compared  with  tea,  but  an 
equally  detrimental  effect  on  gastric  digestion. 

As  a  stimulant  it  effects  more  directly  the  central  nervous 


MISCELLANEOUS  BEVERAGES  129 

system;  the  heart  action  is  considerably  increased  in  rate 
as  well  as  strength.  Indirectly,  this  results  in  an  increased 
activity  of  the  kidneys.  The  respiration  is  deepened  and  the 
cerebral  centers  excited.  For  this  reason  it  often  proves  use- 
ful in  cases  of  opium  and  alcoholic  poisoning.  In  some  per- 
sons these  effects  are  very  mild;  in  others,  they  are  severe, 
producing  nervousness  and  insomnia,  and  coffee  should  be 
withheld.  It  removes  the  sensation  of  fatigue,  for  which 
reason  it  is  used  by  many  nurses  when  on  night  duty.  It 
should  never  be  given  to  children. 

Coffee  or  tea  taken  with  either  milk  or  sugar  alone  is  much 
more  healthful  and  less  likely  to  cause  ill  effects  than  when 
both  are  used. 

Frequently  after  operation  freshly  made  black  coffee  or 
tea  without  milk  or  sugar  will  be  retained,  and  in  some  cases 
check  vomiting.  Give  the  patient  one-half  teaspoonful  at 
frequent  intervals. 

Many  preparations  have  been  put  upon  the  market  as 
coffee  substitutes,  but  they  lack  the  aromatic  oil  and  caffein 
for  which  it  is  really  prized.  They  make,  however,  pleasing 
hot  beverages,  and  served  with  sugar  and  cream,  have  a  food 
value. 

CHOCOLATE  AND  COCOA 

Source.  Cocoa  and  chocolate  are  commercially  prepared 
from  the  seeds  of  the  cocao  tree,  Theobroma  cocao.  The  seeds 
(or  beans)  are  contained  in  a  pulpy  fruit  7-12  inches  long, 
3-5  inches  in  diameter,  in  shape  intermediate  between  a  melon 
and  a  cucumber.  The  fruit  is  gathered  and  allowed  to  re- 
main in  a  heap  to  ferment  a  few  days,  when  the  pulp  becomes 
loosened.  The  seeds  lose  some  of  their  bitterness  during  this 
process,  upon  which  the  flavor  of  the  bean  largely  depends. 
They  are  then  dried  in  the  sun,  cleaned  and  sorted,  and  care- 
fully roasted.  After  this  the  thin  outer  husks  are  removed 
and  sold  under  the  name  of  cocoa  shells.  The  broken  roasted 
beans  constitute  cocoa  nibs. 

Chocolate  is  prepared  by  grinding  the  nibs  between  hot 
rollers  to  a  great  degree  of  fineness.     The.  presence  of  50  per 


130  BEVERAGES 

cent,  fat  causes  the  mass  to  form  a  paste.  This  is  molded 
and  cooled  with  or  without  the  addition  of  sugar  and  flavor- 
ing. 

Cocoa  consists  of  chocolate  deprived  of  a  part  of  the  fat. 
Sugar  or  starch  or  both,  are  sometimes  added. 

Resemblance  to  Tea  and  Coffee.  Chocolate  and  cocoa  con- 
tain a  volatile  oil,  set  free  by  the  fermentation  process  and 
further  modified  by  roasting,  to  which  the  characteristic 
flavor  is  due.  They  also  contain  tannic  acid,  but  in  smaller 
amount  than  in  tea  or  coffee.  The  stimulating  principle 
of  chocolate  and  cocoa  is  an  alkaloid  closely  allied  to  caffein, 
called  theobromin.  It  is  less  apt  to  induce  nervous  symptoms 
than  either  tea  or  coffee,  but  in  many  persons  their  stimulat- 
ing power  is  distinctly  felt. 

Nutritive  Value.  Unlike  tea  and  coffee,  chocolate  and  co- 
coa have  a  high  food  value,  as  shown  by  the  following 
analysis : 

Protein  Fat 

Chocolate     12.5%  47.1% 

Breakfast  Cocoa     21.6%  28.9% 

By  reason  of  the  high  percentage  of  fat,  chocolate  is  likely 
to  cause  indigestion  when  used  to  excess,  or  when  taken  in 
addition  to  an  otherwise  heavy  meal.  Cocoa,  being  less  rich 
in  fat,  is  free  from  this  objection. 

The  use  of  cocoa  often  makes  milk  acceptable  when  it 
would  otherwise  be  refused.  Hence  this  beverage  is  good 
in  convalescence,  if  there  are  no  digestive  disturbances.  When 
made  weak,  it  can  also  be  given  to  children  in  moderation. 

Principles  of  Cooking.  Chocolate  and  cocoa  both  contain 
considerable  starch,  and  hence  should  be  boiled  to  be  di- 
gestible. The  cooked  starch  also  serves  to  thicken  the  bev- 
erage somewhat,  and  to  make  it  smoother  and  more  homo- 
geneous. On  account  of  the  volatile  oil  to  which  the  flavor 
is  due,  the  cooking  should  be  continued  only  long  enough  to 
alter  the  starch,  otherwise  the  oil  is  lost. 


Carbo- 

Mineral 

Water 

Calories 

hydrates 

Matter 

per  lb. 

26.8% 

3.3% 

10.3% 

2720 

37.7% 

7.2% 

4.6% 

2320 

MISCELLANEOUS  BEVERAGES  131 

TEA 
(Individual  Rule.) 
1  teaspoon  tea.  1  cup  boiling  water. 

Scald  the  teapot,  which  should  be  silver,  crockery  or  granite 
ware,  not  tin.  Put  in  the  tea,  add  the  freshly  boiling  water 
and  let  it  infuse  three  to  five  minutes.  By  no  means  allow 
it  to  boil,  for  boiling  dissipates  the  aroma  and  extracts  the 
tannin.  Strain  into  hot  cup  and  serve  with  cream  or  milk 
and  lump  sugar,  or  with  sugar  and  a  slice  of  lemon. 

RUSSIAN  TEA 

Heat  cup,  fill  three-fourths  full  of  boiling  water  and  dip  in 
it  two  teaspoons  tea  (put  in  tea-ball  or  fine  small  strainer), 
until  strong  enough.  Serve  hot  wTith  sugar  and  a  slice  of 
lemon. 

Note. —  Lemon  is  a  good  substitute  for  milk.  The  lemon 
prevents  the  headache  and  sleeplessness  which  the  milk  in 
tea  causes  to  some  persons. 

COFTEE  MADE  IN  THE  PERCOLATER 
Breakfast  Coffee.  After-Dinner  Coffee. 

2  tablespoons  coffee.  Increase    quantity    of    coffee    to 

1  cup  cold  water.  suit  the  taste. 

From  the  percolator  take  out  the  cup  with  its  tube,  fill  the 
percolator  with  the  quantity  of  water  desired,  replace  cup  and 
tube  (covering  tube  with  thumb),  and  put  in  the  coffee,  then 
put  on  the  spreader  plate  and  cover.     Cook  fifteen  minutes. 

Xote. —  If  warm  or  hot  water  is  used  it  takes  less  time  for 
cooking.  Xever  use  boiling  water.  It  takes  a  little  longer 
with  the  urns  than  with  the  pots. 

When  heat  is  applied  to  the  foot  of  the  pot,  a  jet  of  water 
lukewarm  at  first,  but  quickly  increasing  in  temperature  as 
the  pumping  process  goes  on,  is  forced  up  through  the  tube, 
falls  on  the  spreader  plate;  by  it,  it  is  evenly  distributed  over 
the  coffee,  through  which  it  percolates  down  into  the  pot 
again.  This  pumping  continues  until  the  water  reaches  the 
boiling  point,  when  water  and  steam  together  come  u*> 
through  the  tube.     The  coffee  is  thus  ready  to  serve. 


132  BEVERAGES 

Coffee  made  in  this  way  has  a  delicious  aroma,  a  fine  flavor 
and  an  absence  of  the  bitter  taste. caused  by  boiling.  Many 
can  drink  coffee  made  in  this  way  that  cannot  when  made 
in  other  ways. 

Buy  coffee  in  the  berry  and  grind  it  fresh  every  day,  for 
ground  coffee  soon  loses  its  aroma. 

BOILED   COFFEE 

(To  make  seven  cups  of  coffee.) 

1  cup  coffee.  6  cups  boiling  water. 
Va  eSS  an(i  shell.  1  cup  cold  water. 

Scald  coffee  pot.  "Wash  egg,  beat  slightly  and  add  crushed 
shell,  coffee  and  one-half  cup  cold  water.  Put  into  scalded 
coffee  pot,  add  boiling  water  and  let  boil  up  three  times, 
stirring  down  after  each  time  (or  boil  five  minutes)  ;  then 
add  one-half  cup  cold  water.  Let  it  stand  20  minutes  where 
it  will  keep  hot  but  not  boil.  Serve  in  hot  coffee  cups  with 
cream  and  sugar,  or  hot  milk  may  bjs  used  in  place  of  cream. 

Note. —  A  favorite  blend  of  coffee  is  three  parts  Java  and 
one  part  Mocha. 

BOILED  COFFEE 
(Individual  Rule.) 

2  tablespoons  coffee.  %  cup  boiling  water. 

1  egg  shell  or  1  teaspoon  %  cup  cold  water, 
egg  white. 

Follow  general  directions  for  blending  in  preceding  recipe. 
Boil  three  minutes  and  keep  hot  15  minutes. 

For  the  Diabetic.  The  following  varieties  may  be  used. 
Pour  coffee  into  a  slightly  beaten  egg  or  yolk ;  or  one  teaspoon 
butter;  or  heavy  cream.     Substitute  Sweetina  for  sugar. 

FILTERED    COFFEE 

(Individual  Rule.) 

2  tablespoons  finely  ground  %  cup  boiling  water. 

coffee. 

Place  a  piece  of  filter  paper  over  a  strainer  and  put  the 
coffee  in  it.  Hold  the  strainer  over  a  hot  coffee  cup  and  pour 
the  boiling  water  slowly  over  the  coffee. 


MISCELLANEOUS  BEVERAGES  133 

COFFEE  WITH  LACTOSE,  300  CALORIES  1 

Calories 

1%  ounces  of  milk  sugar   (about  3  tablespoons)    180 

4  to  5  ounces  of  strong  coffee  (8  to  10  tablespoons)    

2  ounces  of  cream  (4  tablespoons)    120 

By  previously  dissolving  the  milk  sugar  in  water,  72  grams 
of  it  may  be  put  into  a  cup  of  coffee 

MALTED  MILK  COFFEE,  59  CALORIES  2 

(Individual  Rule.) 
1  tablespoon  Horlick's  Malted         1  tablespoon  ground  coffee. 
Milk.  Sugar.  %  cup  boiling  water. 

Mix  the  malted  milk  powder,  coffee  and  water,  stirring 
well.     Boil  three  minutes.     Add  sugar  if  desired. 

Or  one  to  four  teaspoons  of  malted  milk  powder  may  be 
put  in  a  cup  and  ordinary  coffee  poured  directly  upon  it, 
stirring  constantly. 

COCOA  WITH  LACTOSE  490-470  CALORIES  i 
Cocoa  with  milk:  Calories 

1  rounding  teaspoonful  of  cocoa   50 

2  ounces  of  milk  sugar 240 

4  ounces  of  milk    80 

2  ounces  of  cream   120 

Mix  the  sugar  and  cocoa;  cook  in  the  milk  until  dissolved. 
Serve  with  the  cream. 
Cocoa  with  water:  Calories 

1  Heaping  teaspoonful  of  cocoa    50 

2  ounces  of  milk  sugar  240 

up  water  —  3  ounces  of  cream   L80 

Mix  cocoa  and  sugar,  add  the  water,  and  boil.  Then  add 
the  cream,  or  use  leee  cream  and  serve  with  whipped  cream. 

BREAKFAST  COCOA.  957  CALORIES 
(To  make   six   cups  of   cocoa.) 

3  tablespoons  Walter   Baker's         1  cup  boiling  water, 
cocoa.  3  cups  scalded  milk. 

4  tablespoons  sugar. 

l  Dr.  W.  Coleman,  "American  Journal  of  Medical  Sciences,"  January,   1012. 
I  Without  sugar. 


134  BEVERAGES 

Scald  milk  in  double  boiler.  Put  the  cocoa  and  sugar  in 
a  saucepan  and  slowly  pour  on  the  hot  water,  stirring  all  the 
time.  Boil  five  minutes,  add  the  scalded  milk,  beat  until 
foamy  with  Dover  egg  beater  to  prevent  formation  of  skin. 
Serve  in  heated  cups.  One-half  cup  of  cream  is  a  great  addi- 
tion to  cocoa. 

BREAKFAST  COCOA,  197  CALORIES 

(Individual  Rule.) 
2  teaspoons  Walter  Baker's  %  cup  boiling  water, 

cocoa.  %  cup  scalded  milk. 

1  teaspoon  sugar. 

Follow  general  directions  for  blending  and  cooking  in  pre- 
ceding recipe.     Boiling  three  minutes. 

Note. —  Cocoa  may  be  served  hot  or  ice  cold,  with  or  with- 
out whipped  cream.  It  may  be  served  hot,  poured  over  the 
beaten  white  or  yolk  of  egg.  One-third  teaspoon  of  brandy 
may  be  added  if  ordered  by  the  physician. 

MALTED  MILK  COCOA,  83   CALORIES  i 
(Individual  Rule.) 
1  tablespoon  Horlick's  Malted         %   cup  boiling  water. 

Milk.  Sugar. 

1  teaspoon  cocoa. 

Mix  the  malted  milk  powder,  cocoa  and  water,  stirring  well. 
Boil  three  minutes.     Add  sugar  if  desired  and  serve  hot. 

PLAIN  CHOCOLATE,  1220  CALORIES 

(Eight  Cups.) 

1  quart  milk.  %  tablespoon  cornstarch. 

2  ounces   Walter  Baker's   choco-   3  tablespoons  sugar, 
late.  Speck  salt. 

2  tablespoons  boiling  water. 

Mix  the  cornstarch  with  one-fourth  cup  of  the  milk.  Put 
remainder  of  milk  in  double  boiler  to  heat.  When  the  milk 
is  scalded,  stir  in  the  cornstarch  and  cook  ten  minutes. 
Scrape  the  chocolate  and  put  it  in  a  small  saucepan;  add 
sugar  and  water  and  place  the  saucepan  over  hot  water.     Stir 

1  Without  sugar. 


MISCELLANEOUS  BEVERAGES  135 

constantly  until  the  mixture  is  smooth  and  glossy.  Add  the 
hot  milk  and  beat  the  mixture  with  egg  beater  until  frothy; 
or  it  may  be  poured  back  and  forth  from  the  boiler  to  a 
pitcher,  holding  high  the  vessel  from  which  it  is  poured. 
This  will  give  a  thick  froth.     Serve  at  once. 

Xote. —  If  you  prefer  not  to  thicken  the  chocolate,  omit 
the  cornstarch. 

Whipped  cream  may  be  served  with  chocolate,  or  it  may 
be  poured  onto  the  beaten  yolk  of  egg. 

If  desired,  flavor  with  one-half  teaspoon  vanilla. 

PLAIN  CHOCOLATE,   305   CALORIES 
(Individual  Rule.) 
1  cup  milk.  %  tablespoon  cornstarch. 

y2  ounce  chocolate.  %  tablespoon  sugar. 

Following  directions  for  blending  and  cooking  in  preced- 
ing recipe. 

CHOCOLATE,  VIENNA  STYLE,  1427  CALORIES 

(Eight  Cups.) 

1  quart  milk.  3  tablespoons  boiling  water. 
4  ounces  Walter  Baker's  vanilla   1  tablespoon  sugar. 

chocolate. 

Scald  milk  in  double  boiler.  Scrape  chocolate  and  put 
sugar  and  water  into  a  small  saucepan;  heat  over  hot  water, 
stirring  till  smooth  and  glossy.  Stir  this  mixture  into  the 
hot  milk  and  beat  well  with  an  egg  beater.  Serve  at  once, 
putting  a  tablespoon  of  whipped  cream  in  each  cup,  and 
filling  with  the  chocolate. 

The  plain  chocolate  may  be  used  instead  of  the  vanilla, 
but  in  that  case  use  one  teaspoon  vanilla  and  three  generous 
tablespoons  sugar. 

CHOCOLATE   MILK   SHAKE,   295   CALORIES 

(Individual  Rule.) 

2  tablespoons  chopped  ice.  ys  cup  milk. 

2  tablespoons  chocolate  syrup.         *4  cup    soda    water    or     White 

3  tablespoons  whipped   cream.  Rock  water. 


136  BEVERAGES 

Shake  or  stir  well  before  drinking.  A  tablespoon  of 
vanilla  ice-cream  is  a  desirable  addition.  It  is  a  delicious 
drink,  even  if  the  soda  or  White  Eock  water  be  omitted. 

A  plainer  drink  is  made  by  combining  the  syrup,  three- 
fourths  cup  milk  and  the  ice,  and  shaking  well. 

CHOCOLATE  SYRUP  —  USED  IN  PRECEDING,  2093  CALORIES 

(One  Tablespoon  =  65  Calories.) 
1  ounce    (3  tablespoons)    Walter    1  tablespoon  vanilla. 

Baker's  soluble  chocolate.  2  cups  sugar. 

1  cup  boiling  water. 

Put  chocolate  in  a  saucepan  and  add  the  water  gradually, 
stirring  all  the  time.  Add  sugar  and  stir  till  it  begins  to 
boil;  boil  three  minutes,  strain,  cool  and  add  one  tablespoon 
vanilla.     Bottle,  and  keep  in  a  cold  place. 

SPECIAL  NON-NUTRITIVE  BEVERAGES 

FLAXSEED   TEA 

1  tablespoon  whole  flaxseed.  Lemon  juice  to  taste. 

2  cups  cold  water.  Sugar. 

Wash  flaxseed  thoroughly,  put  it  with  the  cold  water  in  a 
saucepan,  simmer  one  hour,  add  lemon  juice  and  sugar  to 
taste  and  strain. 

Note. —  If  too  thick,  add  hot  water. 

Valuable  in  case  of  inflammation  of  the  mucous  membrane. 

CINNAMON  WATER 
1  ounce  stick  cinnamos.  1  pint  boiling  water. 

Boil  together  fifteen  minutes.     Strain.     Serve  hot  or  cold. 

Note. —  Good  in  bowel  trouble.  The  pure  cinnamon  is 
quite  different  from  the  coarse  bark  usually  sold  for  cinna- 
mon, which  is  really  only  cassia. 

FLAXSEED  AND  LICORICE  TEA 

1  ouHce  flaxseed.  1  pint  boiling  water. 

2  drachms  licorice  root. 


NON-NUTRITIVE  BEVERAGES  137 

Pour  the  boiling  water  over  whole  flaxseed  and  bruised 
licorice-root,  cover  and  cook  very  slowly  for  four  hours. 
Strain. 

LIME  WATER 

1  tablespoon  of  slaked  lime.  1  quart  boiled  or  distilled  water. 

Put  the  lime  and  water  in  a  corked  bottle  and  shake  thor- 
oughly two  or  three  times  during  the  first  hour.  The  lime 
should  then  be  allowed  to  settle,  and  after  twenty-four  hours 
the  upper  clear  fluid  carefully  poured  or  siphoned  off  into 
a  glass-stoppered  bottle.  Keep  tightly  corked,  as  it  absorbs 
carbon  dioxide  from  the  air.     Keep  in  a  cool  place. 

BRAN  TEA 
*4  cup  wheat  bran.  Egg  shell. 

J  cups  cold  water.  Molasses,   lemon  juice. 

Boil  the  water  and  bran  twenty  minutes,  and  settle  it  with 
an  egg  shell  or  a  little  cold  water.  Sweeten  with  molasses, 
and  lemon  juice  can  be  used  if  desired. 

SLIPPERY  ELM  TEA 

2  teaspoons    slippery    elm    pow-    Sugar. 

der  or  piece  of  the  bark.  Lemon  juice. 

1  cup  boiling  water. 

Pour  the  water  upon  the  slippery-elm  powder  or  bark. 
When  cool,  strain  and  flavor  with  lemon  juice  and  sugar. 
This  is  soothing  in  case  of  inflammation  of  the  mucous  mem- 
brane. 

HERB  TEA 

Pour  one  cup  of  boiling  water  over  two_  tablespoons  of 
herbs.  <  r  the  bowl,  set  it  over  the  tea-kettle  and  steep 
ten  minutes.     Sweeten  if  desired. 

GINGER  TEA 
Mix  one  tablespoon  of  molasses  with  one-half  teaspoon  of 
•r;  pour  on  gradually  one-half  cup  boiling  water,   and 
boil  one  minute.     Add  one-half   cup   milk   and   when  thor- 
oughly heated,  serve. 


CHAPTEE  IX 
ANIMAL  FOODS 

The  important  foods  derived  from  the  animal  kingdom  are 

—  Meat  —  Poultry  and  Game  —  Fish  —  Shell  Fish  —  Eggs 

—  Milk  and  Milk  Products  —  Sweetbreads  —  Gelatin  —  Beef 
Preparations  —  Meat  Broth  and  Jellies. 

Composition.  Milk  is  the  only  animal  food  in  which  all 
the  nutrients  are  represented  in  forms  and  proportions  suit- 
able to  supply  all  the  needs  of  the  body.  It  is  properly  called 
a  "  complete  food."  Eggs,  also  often  called  "  complete  food/' 
contain  both  body-building  and  fuel  food-stuffs,  but  are  in- 
complete in  the  sense  that  the  amount  of  carbohydrate  is  so 
small  as  to  be  almost  negligible. 

Meats  are  valuable  primarily  as  sources  of  protein.  When 
fat  is  present  they  are  also  useful  for  fuel. 

Meat  extracts  are  chiefly  valuable  for  their  flavor  and  stim- 
ulating properties. 

The  Proteins  of  animal  foods  are  of  many  forms,  con- 
spicuous among  which  are  albumin  of  egg-white;  myosin  of 
muscle;  casein  of  milk;  fibrin  of  blood;  nucleo-protein  of 
liver  and  sweetbreads;  collagen  of  connective  tissue. 

The  Fats  are  chiefly  mixtures  of  stearin,  palmitin  and  olein 
in  varying  proportions;  small  amounts  of  esters  of  volatile 
fatty  acids;  and  compounds  of  fats  with  phosphorus  in  the 
form  of  lecithin  and  related  substances. 

Extractives.  Nitrogenous  extractives  are  found  chiefly  in 
meat,  to  which  they  help  to  give  the  characteristic  flavor  and 
the  stimulating  properties.  They  consist  chiefly  of  purins 
(adenine,  guanine,  xanthine,  hypoxanthine  and  uric  acid)  ; 
and  crcatin  and  creatinin. 

Carbohydrates.     The  carbohydrates  are  represented  mainly 

138 


ANIMAL  FOODS  139 

by  lactose  in  milk,  and  glycogen  in  shellfish.     As  a  rule,  carbo- 
hydrates are  negligible  in  animal  foods. 

Water.  Water  is  present  in  all  animal  foods.  Some  ex- 
amples, showing  the  varying  proportions  in  different  kinds, 
are  given  in  the  following  table : 

Oyster    solids    88% 

Milk    87% 

ja    73% 

Lean    beef    75% 

Salt  cod    50% 

Mineral  Matter.  Milk  and  eggs  are  more  valuable  for  their 
ash  constituents  than  any  other  animal  loods.  Calcium,  iron 
and  phosphorus  especially,  are  here  found  in  most  available 
forms. 

Meats  are  not  particularly  useful  in  this  respect.  They 
are  deficient  in  calcium,  and  while  they  contain  considerable 
iron,  it  is  not  in  as  useful  a  form  as  that  in  eggs.  Most  of 
the  ash  constituents  found  in  the  body  are,  however,  repre- 
sented in  flesh  foods. 

Digestibility.  As  a  class,  animal  foods  are  easy  of  diges- 
tion. They  contain  little  indigestible  residue,  and  the  nu- 
trients are  very  perfectly  absorbed.  Prepared  for  the  table, 
they  are  more  concentrated  than  most  vegetable  foods.  Hence 
animal  foods  are  frequently  chosen  for  invalids  and  con- 
valescents, regardless  of  their  high  protein  content. 

Disadvantage  of  a  Purely  Animal  Diet.  The  chief  dis- 
advantages of  a  purely  animal  diet  are  that  it  does  not  afford 
sufficient  bulk  to  maintain  the  proper  functioning  of  the 
alimentary  tract,  owing  to  the  lack  of  indigestible  residue; 
and  that  it  loads  the  body  with  an  excess  of  nitrogenous  ma- 
terial, which  is  not  only  unnecessary  for  repair,  but  may 
cause  harm  if  not  speedily  eliminated.  Furthermore,  pro- 
tein raises  the  metabolism  so  that  more  food  is  actually  re- 
quired than  if  carbohydrates  and  fats  are  used  as  fuel.  For 
further  discussion  of  the  relative  merits  of  animal  and  veg- 
etable diets,  see  page  233. 


140  ANIMAL  FOODS 


MEAT 


The  term  meat  includes  the  flesh  of  all  animals  used  for 
food,  as  beef,  veal,  mutton,  lamb,  pork,  poultry,  game.  Lean 
meat  is  almost  a  pure  protein  food. 

Composition  of  Meat: 

1.  Muscle    fibers,    composed    of   proteins,    extractives,    in- 

organic salts,  and  water. 

The  principal  protein  is  albumin.  Muscle  al- 
bumin is  often  called  myosin. 

The  extractives  are  largely  nitrogenous. 

The  mineral  constituents  in  greatest  abundance  are 
phosphates  and  potash  salts. 

2.  Connective  tissue  which  binds  together  the  muscle  fibers, 

this  consisting  chiefly  of  a  protein  called  collagen, 
which  yields  gelatin  on  boiling. 

3.  Fat  interspersed  between  the  fibers. 

Nutritive  Value.  Meat  is  rich  in  nitrogenous  elements  and 
fats,  and  contains  important  salts,  chiefly  potassium  and  iron. 
It  is  easily  cooked  and  improves  in  flavor  during  the  process ; 
requires  less  mastication  and  is  more  easily  digested  and  as- 
similated than  most  vegetable  food. 

Meat  is  lacking  in  carbohydrates,  and  unless  a  large  amount 
of  fat  is  present,  is  to  be  regarded  as  a  source  of  nitrogen 
rather  than  of  energy.  Since  protein  burns  up  faster  than 
other  foods,  and  very  little  of  the  nitrogen  can  be  retained  in 
the  body,  it  is  most  advantageously  used  in  small  amounts 
along  with  plenty  of  fats  and  carbohydrates. 

The  most  important  food  element  in  meat  is  the  myosin  or 
muscle  albumin.  The  collagen  belongs  to  a  group  of  proteins 
often  called  gelatinoids  or  albuminoids,  because,  unlike  the 
albumins,  they  cannot  sustain  life  alone.  They  are  able, 
however,  to  replace  other  proteins  to  the  extent  of  two-thirds 
of  the  ordinary  nitrogen  requirement.  In  young  animals,  the 
connective  tissue  is  soft,  and  the  tissues  are  easily  masticated ; 
but  in  older  animals  it  becomes  very  firm,  is  hard  to  chew 


MEAT  141 

and  often  escapes  digestion  unless  softened  or  changed  to 
gelatin  by  cooking. 

The  nitrogenous  extractives  have  no  nutritive  value,  and 
in  fact,  represent  products  either  of  waste  (katabolism)  or  of 
insufficient  oxidation.  Unless  promptly  excreted,  they  may 
cause  an  excess  of  uric  acid  or  other  disorders.  However, 
they  bestow  upon  cooked  meat  its  characteristic  flavor  and 
odor;  in  the  stomach,  act  as  stimulants  to  the  secretion  of 
gastric  juice;  and  exert  on  the  nervous  system  a  stimulating 
influence  similar  to  that  of  tea  and  coffee. 

Digestibility  of  Meat.  Meat  is  easily  digested,  the  degree 
of  ease  depending  upon  the  following  conditions:  (1)  The 
age  of  the  animal  when  killed,  with  the  exception  of  veal,  the 
flesh  of  the  young  animal  is  more  easily  digested,  but  less 
nutritious  than  that  of  the  older  one;  (2)  the  time  the  animal 
is  kept  before  cooking;  (3)  the  sex;  (4)  the  care  bestowed  on 
the  animal  during  life;  (5)  the  quantity  of  fat.  Lean  meat 
is  more  easily  digested  than  fat  meat. 

Absorption  of  Meat.  Meat  is  very  readily  absorbed  and 
leaves  little  residue  in  the  intestines;  only  3  per  cent,  of  meat 
taken  is  lost  in  the  process  of  digestion. 

Uncooked  Meat.  Ordinary  raw  meat  is  not  quite  as  easily 
digested  as  cooked  meat.  Owing  to  color  and  flavor,  it  is  not 
appetizing  and  could  not  be  taken  continuously.  However, 
when  chopped  fine  or  scraped  free  from  connective  tissue,  so 
as  to  be  easily  attacked  by  the  digestive  juices,  it  is  more 
readily  digested  than  cooked  meat. 

Effect  of  Cooking  Meat.  Proper  cooking  makes  meat  more 
digestible,  as  it  softens  the  connective  tissues,  thus  causing  a 
separation  of  the  muscular  fibers,  and  enabling  the  digestive 
juices  to  act  more  advantageously.  The  color  and  flavor  are 
improved.  There  is  a  loss  of  weight  by  evaporation  of  water, 
and  loss  of  mineral  matter  and  some  extractives.  The  loss  of 
water  concentrates  the  nutrients,  and  thus  renders  cooked 
meat  proportionally  more  nutritious  than  raw  meat. 


14«  ANIMAL  FOODS 

Objective  Points  and  Methods  in  Cooking: 

1.  To  retain  the  juice  as  in  baking,  broiling,  boiling  and 
frying. 

2.  To  extract  the  juice  as  in  soups. 

3.  To  extract  and  retain  the  juice  as  in  stews. 

The  Principal  Constituent  of  meat  to  be  considered  in  cook- 
ing is  the  albumin.     Note  page  11,  for  albumin. 

Cooking  of  Meat.  Heat  penetrates  meat  slowly.  At  a  tem- 
perature of  158  degrees  Fahrenheit,  the  meat  assumes  a  gray 
color,  as  a  result  of  the  decomposition  of  the  coloring  matter 
of  the  blood.  At  the  same  time  a  peculiar  odor  of  cooking 
develops,  which  is  due  to  chemical  changes  produced  by  the 
heat. 

At  a  temperature  above  104  degrees  Fahrenheit,  meat  be- 
gins to  lose  weight  from  the  separation  of  water,  which  con- 
tains salts  and  nitrogenous  extractives.  This  process  contin- 
ues as  the  temperature  rises,  except  that  coagulable  proteins 
no  longer  separate  with  the  water. 

Coagulation  of  the  albumin  is  an  important  factor  in  cook- 
ing meat,  and  the  degree  varies  with  the  mode  of  cooking. 

As  broiling  is  the  preferred  way  of  preparing  meat  for  the 
sick  and  convalescent,  it  is  taken  up  in  detail  in  this  chapter. 

Broiling.  In  broiling,  the  meat  is  to  be  cooked  in  its  own 
juices ;  it  is,  therefore,  evident  that  these  must  be  retained  as 
completely  as  possible.  At  first  the  temperature  should  be 
sufficiently  high  quickly  to  coagulate,  and  even  harden  the 
albumin  on  the  outside  surface,  so  as  to  form  a  layer  or  pro- 
tecting coat  over  the  whole ;  then  the  heat  should  be  modified 
so  that  the  interior  will  be  raised  to  a  temperature  that  will 
cook  it  properly  without  loss  of  its  nutritive  properties. 

In  broiling  we  partially  sacrifice  the  outer  layer  of  the 
meat,  to  preserve  the  inner  portion. 

The  time  for  exposure  will  be  different  for  different  kinds 
of  meat.  Beef  and  mutton  require  a  shorter  time  than  lamb, 
chicken  or  game. 

A  piece  of  meat  properly  broiled  swells,  and  when  cut,  the 


MEAT  143 

liquid  portion  flows  out  readily;  but  if  cooked  too  long  the 
albumin  inside  coagulates  and  the  meat  loses  its  moisture, 
shrinks,  and  becomes  tough. 

Effect  of  Cold  and  Hot  Water  on  Meat.  Cold  water  draws 
out  the  soluble  albumin,  the  extractives  and  some  of  the  salts ; 
thus  in  soups,  broths  and  stews  where  all  the  nutriment  pos- 
sible is  desired  in  the  liquid,  the  meat  is  first  put  into  cold 
water  and  gradually  brought  to  a  higher  temperature. 

Hot  water  or  dry  heat  coagulates  albumin,  and  since  if 
subjected  to  too  high  a  temperature  this  becomes  tough  and 
indigestible,  we  must  note  carefully  the  proper  temperature  of 
cooking.  Often  it  is  necessary  to  sacrifice  a  small  amount 
of  albumin  by  exposing  the  meat  to  a  high  temperature  for 
a  short  time  to  form  a  coating  on  the  meat,  in  order  to  re- 
tain the  rest  of  the  juices  more  effectively,  after  which  the 
connective  tissue  can  be  softened  by  gentle  simmering  for 
several  hours. 

The  Quality  of  Meat  depends  upon  the  age,  sex,  environ- 
ment, care,  feeding  and  time  of  hanging  after  slaughtering. 
It  also  depends  greatly  on  the  cuts  used. 

The  tougher  and  less  expensive  cuts,  if  properly  cooked, 
are  as  nutritious  and  as  easily  digested  as  the  expensive  cuts ; 
however,  tough  meats  take  long,  slow  cooking  to  make  them 
palatable,  and  the  fuel  used  must  be  taken  into  consideration 
in  the  expense.  Tough  meats  are  muscles  which  the  animal 
uses  the  most,  as  the  legs  (especially  the  lower  part),  neck, 
etc.;  they  are  more  highly  flavored  on  account  of  the  freer 
circulation  of  blood  through  these  portions.  Cuts  from  the 
neck  and  shin  are  used  for  soups  and  broths. 

The  tenderer  and  more  expensive  cuts  are  from  the  muscles 
which  the  animal  uses  the  least,  as  the  upper  portion  of  the 
hind  quarter  (rump,  sirloin)  and  fore  ribs.  The  circulation 
of  blood  through  these  portions  is  less  and  they  are  not  as 
juicy  and  well  flavored,  nor  any  more  nutritious  than  tougher 
portions.     These  tenderer  cuts  are  used  for  steaks  and  roasts. 

The  remaining  muscular  portions  of  the  animal  (flank, 
shoulder  and  brisket)  are  not  as  tender  as  the  upper  portion 


144  ANIMAL  FOODS 

of  the  hind  quarter,  but  just  as  nutritious.  They  need  longer 
cooking  and  are  used  for  stews,  braising  and  pot  roast. 

Internal  Organs  or  Animal  Viscera  used  as  food  are  the 
heart,  tongue,  brain,  kidneys,  liver,  pancreas,  thymus  glands 
and  paunch.  Although  some  are  as  easily  digested  as  most 
muscle  tissue,  they  are  not  as  nutritious,  and  most  of  them 
produce  large  quantities  of  uric  acid. 

The  heart,  liver  and  kidneys,  when  properly  cooked,  are 
not  as  easily  digested  as  other  meats,  on  account  of  their  close 
and  firm  texture,  and  should  be  eaten  only  by  those  of  good 
digestive  powers. 

The  tongue  is  not  very  easily  digested,  for  although  the 
lean  meat  is  tender,  the  fat  is  hard,  and  tends  to  retard  diges- 
tion in  the  stomach. 

The  brain  is  the  most  rapidly  digested  of  meats,  but  a 
very  high  per  cent,  is  of  no  use  to  the  body.  It  is  not  suited 
for  invalid  diet  on  account  of  the  high  fat  content. 

The  paunch  is  the  third  stomach  of  the  ox  and  called  tripe. 
When  properly  cooked  it  is  easily  digested,  but  contains  too 
much  fat  to  give  an  invalid. 

The  pancreas  and  thymus  glands  of  the  calf  or  lamb  are 
sold  under  the  name  of  sweetbreads.  They  are  most  easily 
digested,  but  give  rise  to  uric  acid.  Note  chapter  on  Sweet- 
breads. 

Beef.  Beef,  is  without  doubt,  the  most  valuable  kind  of 
meat;  it  is  nutritious,  of  excellent  flavor,  and  comparatively 
easy  of  digestion. 

Test  for  Good  Beef.  The  flesh  is  firm  and  fine  grained  in 
texture ;  bright  red  in  color  when  first  cut  and  upon  exposure 
to  air ;  looks  juicy  and  well-mottled  and  coated  with  fat,  and 
the  fat  is  of  yellowish  color  and  firm. 

The  best  beef  is  obtained  from  the  steer  of  four  to  six  years 
of  age.  After  killing,  the  animal  should  hang  for  two  to 
three  weeks. 

Veal.  The  flesh  of  the  calf  is  difficult  of  digestion  and 
should  only  be  used  in  the  sick  room  for  making  broth.  It 
should  never  be  eaten  by  those  of  weak  digestion.     It  con- 


MEAT  145 

tains    less    albuminous    substances,    and    more    gelatin    than 
beef. 

Trst  for  Good  Yeah  It  should  be  of  a  pinkish  color,  with 
clear,  firm,  white  fat,  fine  grained  and  tender.  The  cut  most 
used  for  broth  and  soup  is  the  lower  part  of  the  leg  known 
as  the  knuckle. 

Mutton.  Xext  to  beef,  mutton  is  considered  the  most 
nutritious  of  meats,  and  by  some  considered  as  easily  digested; 
but  it  is  known  that  fat  of  mutton,  which  consists  largely  of 
stearin,  is  not  as  easily  digested. 

The  best  quality  of  mutton  comes  from  a  sheep  from  three 
to  five  years  old;  after  killing  it  should  be  allowed  to  hang 
to  ripen  and  to  develop  the  flavor. 

Test  for  Good  Mutton.  The  flesh  is  fine  grained,  bright 
pink  in  color,  the  fat  is  white,  hard  and  flaky,  and  the  skin 
comes  off  easily.  The  bones  of  mutton  are  white  and  smooth 
and  round  at  the  joints. 

Iamb.  Lamb  of  the  right  age  is  as  nutritious  as  beef  or 
mutton  but  the  flesh  is  milder  in  flavor. 

Lamb  is  sold  as  "  spring  lamb  "  when  killed  at  six  weeks  to 
three  months  old.  It  is  very  expensive  and  comes  into  the 
market  early  in  the  year  —  February  and  March.  Lamb  is 
usually  killed  when  a  year  old,  and.  should  be  sold  imme- 
diately after  killing;  in  this  respect  it  differs  from  beef  and 
mutton,  which  should  hang  after  killing  to  ripen  and  develop 
the  flavor. 

Test  for  Lamb.  Lamb  can  be  distinguished  from  mutton 
by  the  pinkish  color  of  the  bone,  and  the  serrated  joints. 

Pork.  The  flesh  of  the  pig  is  the  most  indigestible  of 
all  meats  on  account  of  the  large  percentage  of  fat  which  it 
contains,  consequently  it  is  not  used  in  cookery  for  the  sick, 
except  sometimes  a  small  amount  of  ham,  salt  pork  or  bacon, 
as  the  salty  taste  occasionally  acts  as  a  stimulant  to  the  lost 
appetite  of  the  convalescent.  Ham  and  bacon  are  more  easily 
digested  than  other  cuts  of  pork,  and  when  thin  strips  of 
bacon  are  cooked  crisp  they  are  easily  digested.  Bacon  is 
from  the  flank  of  pork  and  is  salted  and  smoked.     Xext  to 


146 


ANIMAL  FOODS 


butter  and  cream,  bacon  fat  is  the  most  easily  assimilated  of 
ordinary  food  fats. 

Cuts  of  Meat. x  The  methods  of  cutting  sides  of  beef,  veal, 
mutton,  and  pork  into  parts,  and  the  terms  used  for  the  differ- 
ent "  cuts,"  as  these  parts  are  commonly  called,  vary  in 
different  localities.  The  diagrams  show  the  positions  of  the 
different  cuts,  both  in  the  live  animal  and  in  the  dressed  car- 
cass, as  found  in  the  markets.  The  lines  of  division  between 
the  different  cuts  will  vary  slightly,  according  to  the  usage  of 
the  local  market,  even  where  the  general  method  of  cutting 
is  as  here  indicated.  The  names  of  the  same  cuts  likewise 
vary  in  different  parts  of  the  country. 

Cuts  of  Beef 


Fig.  5 


Fig.  5. —  Diagrams  of  cuts  of  beef:  1,  Neck;  2,  chuck;  3,  ribs;  4,  shoul- 
der-clod; 5,  fore-shank;  6,  brisket;  7,  cross-ribs;  8,  plate;  9,  navel;  10, 
loin;  11,  flank;  12,  rump;  13,  round;  14,  second-cut  round;  15,  hind-shank. 
—  (Atwater  and  Bryant,  Bulletin  No.  28,  Office  of  Experiment  Stations, 
United  States  Department  of  Agriculture.)  Send  for  Bulletin  for  cuts  of 
Veal  and  Pork. 


1  This  section  is  quoted  from  Atwater  and  Bryant,  Bulletin  No.  28,  Office 
of  Experiment  Stations,  United  States  Department  of  Agriculture,  Washing- 
ton. D.  O. 


MEAT  147 

The  general  method  or  cutting  up  a  side  of  beef  is  illus- 
trated in  Fig.  5,  which  shows  the  relative  position  of  the  cuts 
in  the  animal  and  in  a  dressed  side.  The  neck  piece  is  fre- 
quently cut  so  as  to  include  more  of  the  chuck  than  is  repre- 
sented by  the  diagrams.  The  shoulder-clod  is  usually  cut 
without  bone,  while  the  shoulder  (not  included  in  diagram) 
would  include  more  or  less  of  the  shoulder  blade  and  of  the 
upper  end  of  the  fore-shank.  Shoulder  steak  is  cut  from  the 
chuck.  In  many  localities  the  plate  is  made  to  include  all 
the  parts  of  the  fore-quarter  designated  on  the  diagrams  as 
brisket,  cross-ribs,  plate,  and  navel,  and  different  portions  of 
the  plate,  as  thus  cut,  are  spoken  of  as  the  "brisket  end  of 
plate  n  and  "  navel  end  of  plate/'  This  part  of  the  animal  is 
largely  used  for  corning.  The  ribs  are  frequently  divided 
into  first,  second,  and  third  cuts,  the  latter  lying  nearest  the 
chuck  and  being  slightly  less  desirable  than  the  former.  The 
chuck  is  sometimes  sub-divided  in  a  similar  manner,  the  third 
cut  of  the  chuck  being  nearest  the  neck.  The  names  applied 
to  different  portions  of  the  loin  vary  considerably  in  different 
localities.  The  part  nearest  the  ribs  is  frequently  called 
"  small  end  of  loin  "  or  "  short  steak."  The  other  end  of  the 
loin  is  called  "  hip  sirloin  "  or  "  sirloin/'  Between  the  short 
steak  and  the  sirloin  is  a  portion  quite  generally  called  the 
"  tenderloin,"  for  the  reason  that  the  real  tenderloin,  the 
very  tender  strip  of  meat  lying  inside  the  loin,  is  found  most 
fully  developed  in  this  cut.  Porterhouse  steak  is  a  term  most 
frequently  applied  either  to  the  short  steak  or  the  tenderloin. 
It  is  not  uncommon  to  find  the  flank  cut  so  as  to  include  more 
of  the  loin  than  is  indicated  in  the  figures,  in  which  case  the 
upper  portion  is  called  "  flank  steak."  The  larger  part  of  the 
flank  is,  however,  very  frequently  corned,  as  is  also  the  case 
with  the  rump.  In  some  markets  the  rump  is  cut  so  as  to 
include  a  portion  of  the  loin,  which  is  then  sold  as  "rump 
steak."  The  portion  of  the  round  on  the  inside  of  the  leg 
is  regarded  as  more  tender  than  that  on  the  outside,  and  is 
frequently  preferred  to  the  latter.  As  the  leg  lies  upon  the 
butcher's  table,  this  inside  of  the  round  is  usually  on  the 


148 


ANIMAL  FOODS 


upper  or  top  side,  and  is  therefore  called  "  top  round." 
sionally  the  plate  is  called  the  "  rattle." 


Occa- 


Cuts  of  Lamb  and  Mutton 


Fig.  7 

Fig.  7. —  Diagrams  of  cuts  of  lamb  and  mutton:  1,  Neck;  2.  chuck;  3, 
shoulder;  4,  flank;  5,  loin;  6,  leg. —  (Atwater  and  Bryant,  Bulletin  No.  28, 
Office  of   Experiment   Stations,   United   States  Department  of  Agriculture.) 

Fig.  7  shows  the  relative  position  of  the  cuts  in  a  dressed 
side  of  mutton  or  lamb  and  in  a  live  animal.  The  cuts  in  a 
side  of  lamb  and  mutton  number  but  six,  three  in  each  quar- 
ter. The"  chuck  includes  the  ribs  as  far  as  the  end  of  the 
shoulder  blades,  beyond  which  comes  the  loin.  The  flank  is 
made  to  include  all  the  under  side  of  the  animal.  Some 
butchers,  however,  make  a  large  number  of  cuts  in  the  fore- 
quarter,  including  a  portion  of  the  cuts  marked  "  loin  "  and 
"  chuck  "  in  Fig.  7,  to  make  a  cut  designated  as  "  rib,"  and 
a  portion  of  the  "  flank "  and  "  shoulder  "  to  make  a  cut 
designated  as  "  brisket."  The  term  "  chops  "  is  ordinarily 
used  to  designate  portions  of  either  the  loin,  ribs,  chuck  or 
shoulder,  which  are  either  cut  or  "  chopped  "  by  the  butcher 
into  pieces  suitable  for  frying  or  boiling.  The  chuck  and  ribs 
are  sometimes  called  the  "  rack." 


MEAT  149 

ENERGY  VALUE   OF  MEAT 

See  Table,  under  names  of  meat,  as  Beef  —  Mutton  — 
Lamb  —  Bacon  —  Ham,  etc. 

See  Table,  page  64,  for  energy  value  of  other  ingredients. 

TO  BROIL  STEAK 

Wipe,  trim  off  the  superfluous  fat  and  remove  a  little  of 
the  bone.  Save  the  flank  ends  for  broiled  meat  cakes.  Heat 
and  grease  the  broiler  with  some  of  the  fat.  Place  meat  in 
broiler  with  fat  edge  next  to  handle  and  broil  over  a  clear 
fire,  turning  every  ten  seconds  for  the  first  minute,  holding 
broiler  near  the  coals  that  the  surface  may  be  well  seared, 
thus  preventing  escape  of  juices ;  then  cook  at  lower  tempera- 
ture, holding  the  broiler  higher. 

Steak  cut  one  inch  thick  will  take  five  minutes  if  liked 
rare,  and  eight  minutes  if  well  done;  one  and  one-half  inch 
thick,  eight  to  ten  minutes.  Serve  on  a  hot  platter  and  sea- 
son with  butter,  salt  and  pepper,  or  with  Maitre  d'Hotel  But- 
ter. 

Xote. —  Steak  should  be  cut  at  least  one  inch  thick;  many 
prefer  it  much  thicker.  The  most  tender  steaks  are  tender- 
loin, sirloin  and  cross-cut  of  rump.  Sirloin,  porterhouse  (a 
thick  slice  of  sirloin  with  tenderloin  attached),  cross-cut  of 
the  rump  and  top  of  the  round  are  all  good  steaks.  The  top 
of  round  is  solid  meat  and  a  cheap  steak;  is  tender  if  cut 
from  animal  of  right  age  and  is  the  second  or  third  cut  from 
top  of  round. 

MAITRE  D'HOTEL  BTJTTER,  443  CALORIES 
*4  cup  butter.  1  tablespoon  chopped  parsley. 

y2  teaspoon  salt.  1  tablespoon  lemon  juice. 

yz  saltepoon  pepper. 

Eub  the  butter  to  a  cream;  add  salt,  pepper,  parsley  and 
lemon  juice.     Spread  on  hot  beefsteak. 

PAN-BROILED  BEEF  CAKES 
Use  steak  from  upper  part  of  round,  and  with  a  small  piece 
of  suet  put  all  through  a  meat  chopper;  without  seasoning, 


150  ANIMAL  FOODS 

shape  into  small,  flat,  circular  cakes.  Into  saute  pan  put  a 
little  beef  fat,  when  smoking  hot,  put  in  the  cakes  and  cook 
a  few  moments  on  each  side  and  turn ;  it  will  take  about  five 
minutes  to  cook  them.  Season  well  with  salt,  pepper  and 
butter,  and  serve  on  hot  platter.  Do  not  add  salt  before  cook- 
ing, as  it  toughens  the  meat. 

SCRAPED  BEEF 
See  "  Beef  Preparations  "  for  recipe.     Page  217. 

MUTTON  CHOPS  BROILED  1 
Cut  away  the  tough  outside  skin,  trim  off  a  part  of  the 
fat.  Broil  same  as  steak  —  that  is,  close  to  the  glowing  coals 
—  for  about  one  minute,  turning  every  ten  seconds,  then  cook 
at  a  lower  temperature,  holding  the  broiler  higher.  Will  take 
four  or  six  minutes  for  a  chop  one  inch  thick.  Mutton,  like 
beef,  should  be  served  rare.  Season  chops  with  salt  and 
pepper,  but  not  with  butter,  as  the  meat  is  rich  and  fat  and 
does  not  require  it. 

LAMB  CHOPS  BROILED  i 

Prepare  and  broil  same  as  for  mutton  chops,  except  that 
they  are  to  be  well  done  instead  of  rare,  to  accomplish  this 
about  three  minutes  longer  cooking  will  be  required;  for  a 
chop  one  inch  thick,  from  eight  to  ten  minutes. 

TRENCH  CHOPS  i 

Trim  a  chop  until  there  is  nothing  left  but  the  round 
muscle  at  the  thick  end,  with  a  little  fat  about  it.  Cut  away 
all  the  meat  from  the  bone,  which  will  then  look  like  a  handle 
with  a  meat  morsel  at  one  end.  Broil,  and  serve  on  hot 
platter  with  paper  handles  on  chops,  and  garnished  with  pars- 
ley and  peas. 

PAN-BROILED  CHOPS  i 
Chops  are  fairly  good  pan-broiled.     The  same  principle  is 
to  be  followed  as  in  the  cooking  over  coals  —  that  is,  a  high 
degree  of  heat  at  first,  to  sear  the  outside  before  the  juice 

1  Chops  average  300  Cal.  per  100  gms. 


MEAT  151 

escapes,  and  a  lower  temperature  afterward  —  therefore,  heat 
the  saute  pan  or  spider  exceedingly  hot  (use  no  fat),  drop  in 
the  chop,  count  ten  and  turn,  repeating  for  about  one  minute, 
then  draw  the  pan  to  the  back  or  side  of  the  stove  and  finish 
cooking  slowly.  A  chop  one  inch  thick  will  be  perfectly  done 
in  from  five  to  seven  minutes.  If  the  pan  is  hot  enough  at 
first  there  will  be  no  loss  of  juice  or  flavor.  Season  and  serve 
in  the  same  manner  as  broiled  chops. 

CHOPS  (OR  BIRDS)  BROILED  IN  PAPER  i 
Prepare  a  chop  as  for  pan-broiling.  Spread  a  piece  of 
paper  evenly  and  thickly  with  butter.  Lay  on  it  a  nicely 
trimmed  chop  and  double  the  paper  with  edges  together. 
Fold  and  crease  the  edges  on  the  three  sides,  then  fold  and 
crease  again,  so  that  the  butter  cannot  run  out.  These  folds 
should  be  half-an-inch  wide.  It  will  be  necessary  to  have 
the  sheet  of  paper  —  foolscap  or  heavy  white  paper  —  consid- 
erably more  than  twice  as  large  as  the  chop.  Broil  over  coals, 
not  too  near,  turning  often  so  that  the  temperature  will  not 
get  so  high  as  to  ignite  the  paper.  A  chop  broiled  in  this  way 
is  basted  in  the  butter  and  in  its  own  juices,  and  is  very  deli- 
cate. A  chop  three-quarters  of  an  inch  thick  will  cook  in  five 
minutes ;  one  an  inch  thick,  in  eight. 

Should  the  paper  ignite,   it  need  not  destroy  the  chop. 
Take  it  out  and  put  into  a  fresh  paper  and  try  again.     The 
chop  should  be  served  hot,  seasoned  with  salt  and  pepper. 
Note. —  Birds  may  be  broiled  in  the  same  way. 

BROILED  BACON 

Cut  bacon  in  as  thin  slices  as  possible,  and  remove  rind. 
Put  in  broiler,  placing  broiler  over  baking  pan,  and  cook  in 
hot  oven  until  crisp. 

CTTRLED   BACON 
Heat  saute  pan  very  hot.     Put  in  strips  of  very  thin  sliced 
bacon.     As  fat  is  drawn  out,  pour  it  off  into  cup;  cook  bacon 
until  crisp  and  brown.     Drain  on  brown  paper. 

1  Chope  average  300  Cal.  per  100  *ms. 


152  ANIMAL  FOODS 

BROILED   HAM 

Cut  slices  of  ham  one-third  inch  thick.  If  very  salt  soak 
fifteen  minutes  in  lukewarm  water ;  broil  three  minutes  or  un- 
til brown  on  both  sides,  turning  frequently.  A  slice  of  boiled 
ham  is  very  delicate  cooked  in  this  same  way,  cooking  it  less 
time. 

ROAST  MEATS 

Prepare  meat,  put  on  rack  in  dripping  pan,  dredge  with 
salt  and  flour  and  cook  in  hot  oven  until  the  surface  is  seared, 
reduce  the  heat  and  cook  slowly  the  required  time. 

Beef,    rare    13  minutes  per  pound. 

Beef,  rare    (over  5  lbs.) 18  minutes  per  pound. 

GRAVY  FOR  ROAST  MEATS 
1  tablespoon  fat.  1  cup  boiling  water. 

1  tablespoon  flour. 

Pour  fat  from  baking  pan  and  return  to  pan  the  quantity 
desired.  Add  flour  and  when  well  browned  pour  on  gradually 
the  boiling  water,  stirring  constantly.  Cook  five  minutes, 
season  with  salt  and  pepper,  and  strain. 

POULTRY  AND  GAME1 

Poultry  and  game  are  generally  classed  together,  poultry 
being  applied  to  domesticated  birds  raised  for  their  flesh  or 
eggs  or  both.     Wild  birds  are  all  classed  as  game. 

Digestibility.  Chicken  may  be  introduced  early  into  the 
dietary  of  the  convalescent,  for  it  is  one  of  the  most  easily 
digested  of  meats.  Chicken  is  more  easily  digested  than 
fowl,  but  is  not  as  nutritious.  The  white  meat  of  the  breast 
is  particularly  free  from  fat,  has  short  fibers  and  small  amount 
of  connective  tissues,  and  is  easier  to  digest  than  the  dark 
meat. 

Squab,  quail,  pigeons  and  the  white  meat  of  turkey  are  also 
easily  digested. 

Duck  and  goose  contain  a  large  quantity  of  fat  and  are  not 
as  easily  digested. 

1  For  further  information,  note  "Poultry  as  Food."  Farmer's  Bulletin, 
No.   182,   Dept.  of  Agriculture,   Washington-  D.  C. 


POULTRY  AND  GAME  153 

Game  is  comparatively  easy  of  digestion  but  too  highly 
flavored  for  most  invalids.  The  cuts  from  the  breast  are 
the  best  for  an  invalid. 

Test  for  Selecting  a  Chicken,  The  cartilage  at  the  end  of 
the  breast  bone  must  be  soft  and  pliable,  the  skin  smooth 
and  the  feet  soft.  There  should  be  an  abundance  of  pin 
feathers.     Chickens  are  used  for  broiling  and  roasting. 

Test  for  Selecting  a  Fowl,  The  cartilage  at  end  of  the 
breast  bone  is  firm,  the  feet  are  hard  and  dry.  The  pin  feath- 
ers are  largely  replaced  with  long  hair.  An  old  fowl,  not  too 
fat,  is  best  for  broths.  One  from  one  to  two  years  is  best  for 
roasting,  or  where  the  meat  substance  is  desired.  The  propor- 
tion of  bone  to  meat  in  chicken  under  this  age  makes  them 
expensive  eating. 

Principles  of  Cooking.  In  general  same  as  for  cooking  of 
other  meats. 

When  the  layer  of  meat  over  the  bones  is  very  thin,  as  in 
young  chickens  or  squabs,  broiling  is  preferable  to  roasting. 

An  old  fowl  can  sometimes  be  made  tender  without  having 
all  its  flavor  stewed  into  the  broth,  by  cooking  in  a  small 
amount  of  water  in  a  double  boiler  for  a  long  time,  or  in  a 
fireless  cooker. 

A  general  rule  for  roasting  chickens  or  turkeys  is  twenty 
minutes  to  the  pound.  Ducks  and  geese,  having  tougher 
fibers,  require  a  longer  time  for  thorough  cooking. 

GENERAL  RTJLE  FOR  CLEANING  POULTRY 
Cut  off  head  and  feet  and  pull  out  pin  feathers.  If  the 
bird  has  not  been  drawn,  make  an  incision  below  the  breast 
just  large  enough  to  admit  the  hand  (or  finger  for  the  small 
birds).  With  the  hand  or  finger,  draw  all  the  entrails  out  at 
one  time.  Care  must  be  taken  not  to  break  them,  especially 
the  gall-bladder.  Turn  down  the  skin  of  the  neck,  cut  off 
neck  close  to  body  and  pull  out  wind  pipe  and  crop.  Cut 
out  the  oil  bag.  Cut  through  skin  of  the  leg  a  little  below  the 
joint  (not  cutting  the  tendons),  press  against  table  and  break 
and  pull  off  foot  with  tendons,  which  will  come  out  in  break- 


154  ANIMAL  FOODS 

ing  if  chicken  is  young.  In  fowls  you  may  have  to  pull  them 
out  separately  with  skewer.  Singe  the  bird  by  holding  it 
over  a  tablespoon  of  burning  alcohol,  or  paper  (holding  over 
sink).  Wash  by  allowing  the  cold  water  to  run  through  and 
over  it,  and  dry  well  inside  and  out  and  prepare  further  for 
broiling  or  roasting,  etc. 

DRY  DRESSING  FOR  STUFFING,   1100   CALORIES 

ly2  cup  stale  bread  crumbs.  Powdered    sage,    marjoram,    and 

V3  cup  butter    ( not  melted ) .  summer  savory. 

Salt,  pepper. 

Thoroughly  mix  ingredients  and  season  to  taste.  Fill  in 
both  openings  of  bird  and  sew  the  skin  at  both  ends,  and  turn 
the  skin  of  neck  over,  and  fasten  to  back.  Oysters  can  be 
added  to  dressing  if  desired,  omitting  all  seasonings  but  the 
salt  and  pepper. 

TO  TRUSS  POULTRY 

After  stuffing  and  sewing  up  the  openings,  draws  the  thighs 
close  to  body  and  secure  in  place  by  putting  a  skewer  through 
them  and  the  body.  Fold  wings  under  back  by  taking  end 
of  wing  and  place  in  under  back  which  fastens  it.  Cross  the 
drum-sticks  and  tie  with  long  string  and  fasten  to  the  tail, 
and  tie  string  so  that  it  will  hold  thighs  close  to  the  body. 
Cut  and  remove  string  before  serving  the  bird. 

ROAST   POULTRY 

100  grams  =  about  200  Calories.* 

Clean,  stuff  and  truss  bird  and  place  it  on  its  back  on 
rack  in  dripping  pan.  Eub  surface  with  salt  and  a  butter  and 
flour  mixture  (mix  three  tablespoons  of  butter  and  two  table- 
spoons of  flour  and  stir  until  creamy).  Dredge  bottom  of 
pan  with  flour.  Place  in  hot  oven  and  in  about  ten  minutes 
the  flour  should  be  well  browned,  then  reduce  heat  of  oven  and 
cook  more  slowly.  Baste  every  ten  minutes  with  one-fourth 
cup  of  butler  melted  in  three-fourths  cup  of  water,  after  this 

1  Edible   portion. 


POULTRY  AND  GAME  155 

lias  been  exhausted  use  fat  in  pan.  Turn  bird  often  while 
cooking  that  it  may  brown  evenly.  When  cooked,  remove  to 
hot  platter  and  make  the  gravy. 

A  chicken  four  to  five  pounds  will  require  about  one  and 
one-half  to  two  hours  for  cooking.  Turkey,  nine  pounds,  two 
and  one-half  to  three  hours.  Ducks  (domestic),  one  to  one 
and  one-half  hours.  Duck  (wild),  twenty-five  to  thirty  min- 
utes.    Goose,  nine  pounds,  two  to  two  hours  and  one-half. 

GRAVY  FOR  ROAST  POULTRY 

Clean  the  heart,  liver  and  gizzard  by  removing  the  mem- 
brane, blood  vessels  and  clotted  blood  from  the  heart.  Cut 
liver  from  the  gall  bladder  and  remove  all  green  on  liver. 
Clean  gizzard  and  cut  through  edge  carefully  to  sac,  and  re- 
move carefully  not  to  break  it,  wash  giblets  (that  is,  the 
heart,  liver,  gizzard)  and  the  neck  and  put  on  to  cook  in  two 
and  one-half  cups  of  cold  water,  cook  slowly  at  the  simmering 
point  until  tender. 

After  chicken  has  been  removed  from  pan,  pour  off  all  the 
fat,  strain  and  return  to  pan  four  tablespoons  of  fat  and  add 
four  tablespoons  of  flour,  brown  together  thoroughly,  and  add 
gradually  the  water  the  giblets  were  cooked  in.  Cook  five 
minutes,  stirring  constantly,  add  hot  water  if  gravy  is  too 
thick,  and  salt  and  pepper  to  taste,  and  the  finely-chopped 
giblets. 

TO   BONE   BIRDS 

Select  bird  that  is  fresh-killed,  dry-picked,  and  not  drawn. 
Cut  off  head  and  feet,  singe  and  remove  pin  feathers,  crop,  and 
oil  bag.  Cut  off  wings  close  to  body.  Lay  on  board  breast 
down  and  cut  to  bone  the  entire  length  of  spine.  Scrape  the 
flesh  from  backbone  the  entire  length  of  body,  working  toward 
the  breast,  cutting  the  tendinous  portions  as  reached.  When 
edge  of  breastbone  is  reached,  care  must  be  taken  not  to  break 
through  skin.  Scrape  flesh  from  second  joint  and  drum- 
sticks, laying  flesh  back  and  pulling  out  bone  (as  if  turning 
glove  off  inside  out). 

Scrape  flesh  from  lower  part  of  back  and  withdraw  from 


156  ANIMAL  FOODS 

carcass.  Put  flesh  in  original  shape  and  broil,  following 
directions  for  broiled  quail;  or  stuff  bird  with  stale  bread 
crumbs  and  tie  in  shape  with  string  and  bake  in  hot  oven. 
When  cooked,  remove  bread  and  tie  in  shape  with  a  bit  of 
white  baby  ribbon  and  garnish  with  parsley  and  lemon. 

BROILED  QUAIL 

100  grams  =  160  Calories. 
Clean,  cut  off  the  head  and  feet,  singe,  and  wipe  with  a 
damp  cloth.  With  a  sharp-pointed  knife  split  the  quail  down 
the  back,  beginning  at  back  of  neck  and  cutting  through  the 
backbone  the  entire  length  of  bird.  Lay  bird  open  and  re- 
move contents.  Cut  through  tendons  at  joints.  Wipe  thor- 
oughly. Season  with  salt  and  pepper,  rub  thickly  with  soft- 
ened butter  and  dredge  with  flour.  Broil  ten  minutes  over 
clear  coals.  Serve  on  hot  buttered  toast.  Garnish  with  toast 
points,  parsley  and  currant  jelly. 

BROILED   SQUABS 

100  grams  =  390  Calories. 

Prepare,  cook  and  serve  the  same  as  quail. 

BROILED  SMALL  BIRDS 

All  small  birds  can  be  broiled  according  to  the  directions 
for  quail,  remembering  that  for  very  small  ones  it  takes  a  very 
bright  fire,  as  the  birds  should  only  be  browned  and  the  time 
required  for  cooking  is  brief. 

BIRDS   BROILED   IN  PAPER 

See  chapter  on  Meats  and  follow  directions  for  "  Chop3 
Broiled  in  Paper."     Page  151. 

BROILED    CHICKEN 

100  grams  =>  108  Calories. i 

Dress  for  broiling,  following  directions  given  under  Broiled 
Quail.  Season  well  with  salt  and  pepper,  and  rub  all  over 
with  softened  butter,  especially  breast  and  legs.  Put  in  a 
well-greased  broiler  and  broil  over  a  clear  fire  about  fifteen 

1  Edible   portion. 


POULTRY  AND  GAME  157 

minutes,  turning  often.  The  flesh  side  must  be  exposed  to 
the  fire  the  greater  part  of  the  time  as  the  skin  side  burns 
easily.  When  chicken  is  nicely  browned,  place  in  a  dripping- 
pan,  skin  side  down,  in  a  moderate  oven  twelve  minutes.  Put 
on  a  hot  dish,  season  with  salt,  pepper  and  butter,  and  serve 
immediately. 

This  rule  is  for  a  chicken  weighing  about  two  and  a  half 
pounds,  yielding  725  calories. 

CREAMED  CHICKEN,  210  CALORIES  l 
(Individual  Rule.) 
ys  cup  cold  cooked  chicken.  y2  tablespoon  butter. 

Speck  celery  salt.  V2  tablespoon    flour. 

Salt.  %  cup  rich  milk. 

Pepper. 

Melt  butter  in  saucepan,  add  flour  and  pour  on  gradually 
the  scalded  milk.  Cook  thoroughly.  Add  chicken  cut  into 
dice,  and  seasonings.  Heat  well  and  serve  on  toast  rounds, 
garnished  with  toast  points  and  parsley;  or  use  as  a  rilling 
for  Swedish  timbales. 

Xote. —  Chicken  may  be  used  that  is  removed  from  chicken 
broth  when  it  is  tender.  Chicken  broth  may  replace  part  of 
the  milk  in  making  the  sauce. 

SCALLOPED  CHICKEN 

Put  creamed  chicken  into  a  small  baking  dish,  cover  with 
dried  bread  or  cracker  crumbs,  dot  with  small  pieces  of  but- 
ter, and  brown  in  oven. 

JELLIED  CHICKEN,  100  CALORIES  2 

(Individual  Rule.) 

1  teaspoon  gelatin.  *4  cup  chopped  chicken. 

2  tablespoons  cold  water.  Salt,  celery  salt. 
8     tablespoons     strong     chicken 

broth. 

Soak  gelatin  in  the  cold  water  five  minutes,  and  add  the 
boiling  hot  broth,  stir  until  dissolved.     Season  to  taste.     Dip 

1  Calculated  with  1%   ounce  of  fowl. 
'About   100  calories. 


158  ANIMAL  FOODS 

mold  into  cold  water  and  pour  in  enough  gelatin  to  cover 
bottom,  put  in  ice  box  to  harden,  when  firm  decorate  with  a 
slice  of  hard-cooked  egg;  or  cook  a  couple  slices  of  carrots 
and  cut  a  small  round  from  one  slice  to  form  the  center  of 
a  daisy  and  cut  the  other  slice  into  strips  to  represent  the 
petals  and  put  in  bottom  of  mold,  add  a  few  drops  of 
gelatin  to  keep  the  decoration  in  place,  and  put  on  ice  to 
harden.  Mix  the  chicken  with  remainder  of  gelatin  and  pour 
into  mold  and  set  to  harden.  Serve  on  leaf  of  lettuce  or 
garnish  with  parsley. 

LARDED  GROUSE 

Clean  and  wash  the  grouse.  Lard  the  breast  and  legs. 
Run  a  small  skewer  through  the  legs  and  tail.  Tie  firmly 
with  twine.  Dredge  with  salt,  rub  the  breast  with  softened 
butter,  then  dredge  with  flour.  Put  into  a  quick  oven.  If 
desired  rare,  cook  twenty  minutes;  if  well  done,  thirty  min- 
utes. Serve  on  hot  platter  garnished  with  parsley  and  Bread 
Sauce. 

LARDED   QUAIL 
100  grams  =  160  Calories. 

The  directions  for  cooking  and  serving  are  the  same  as  for 
grouse,  except  that  quail  cook  in  fifteen  minutes.  Larding 
gives  richness  to  dry  meat  that  does  not  have  fat  enough  of 
its  own. 

BREAD   SAUCE  FOR  GAME,   540   CALORIES 

Crumbs 
y3  cup  coarse  dried  bread  crumbs.    %  small  onion. 
y2  tablespoon  butter.  1  tablespoon  butter. 

Sauce 
1  cup  milk.  Salt. 

%  CUP  nne  bread  crumbs.  Pepper. 

Prepare  Crumbs.  Dry  in  a  warm  oven;  sift.  Cook  the 
coarse  bread  crumbs  in  the  butter  until  a  delicate  brown,  and 
use  to  cover  breast  of  bird. 

Prepare    Sauce.     Put   the   fine   bread   crumbs,    milk    and 


FISH 


159 


onion  on  to  scald  ten  minutes,  then  skim  out  the  onion,  add 
the  butter  and  seasoning,  and  serve  as  a  gravy  for  birds. 

FISH 

Fish  is  one  of  the  important  protein  foods.  The  term  is 
usually  applied  to  all  kinds  of  water  animals  used  for  food. 
They  may  be  classified  as  follows : 

r  Halibut 
Haddock 
Flounder 
Turcot 
White  Fish 
Smelt 
Cod 


X  Scaly  or  Vertebrate. 


OUasee 


White  or  lean,  e.  g. 


12.  Shell-fish 


Dark  or  oily,  e.  g. 


Mollusks,  e.  g. 


Crustaceans,  e.  g. 


r  Salmon 
Mackerel 
Blue  Fish 
Shad 
Herring 
Eel 

{Oysters 
Clams 

fCrabs 
Lobsters 
Shrimps 
Turtles 

.Terrapin 


In  the  white-fleshed  fish  the  fat  is  found  principally  in 
the  liver.  This  is  the  only  class  usually  considered  in  the 
cookery  for  the  sick. 

In  the  dark-fleshed  fish  the  fat  is  found  distributed  through- 
out the  body.  A  considerable  amount  of  the  protein  of  fish 
is  in  the  form  of  gelatin.  Fish  is  less  rich  in  extractives,  and 
heDce  less  stimulating  than  meat. 

Digcsiibi/ifi/.  The  digestibility  of  scaly  fish  depends  upon 
the  quantity  of  fat  present  and  the  coarseness  of  the  fiber. 


160  ANIMAL  FOODS 

The  white-fleshed  fish  are  less  nutritious  and  stimulating  than 
the  dark-fleshed  fish  as  they  contain  less  fat  and  extractives 
and  more  water.  They  are  consequently  more  easily  digested. 
With  the  exception  of  cod,  white  fish  is  useful  for  a  con- 
valescent diet,  for  those  of  sedentary  habits,  for  children,  and 
others  for  whom  the  stimulating  extractives  of  meat  are  not 
desirable. 

Oily  fish  should  not  be  eaten  by  those  of  weak  digestion 
or  given  to  the  sick.  In  some  cases  they  may  be  served  dur- 
ing advanced  convalescence. 

Salt  fish  is  not  as  easily  digested  as  fresh  fish,  as  the  fibers 
are  apt  to  be  hardened  in  the  process  of  salting.  Salt  codfish 
is  an  exception,  for  if  finely  divided  and  served  in  an  ap- 
petizing manner  it  is  a  valuable  and  inexpensive  form  of 
protein  food.  As  a  rule,  dried,  smoked  or  pickled  fish  should 
not  be  given  to  the  sick. 

By  some  persons,  fish  cannot  be  eaten  without  causing  in- 
digestion or  biliousness.  A  complete  diet  of  fish  is  said  to 
cause  an  affection  of  the  skin.  The  fat  sometimes  disagrees, 
causing  acidity  and  eructations  of  the  stomach. 

Composition.  In  composition  fish  is  similar  to  meat,  con- 
taining proteins,  extractives,  fats,  salts  and  water.  As  a  rule, 
fish  contains  more  water  and  less  fat  than  meat,  therefore  it 
is  more  easily  digested ;  and  it  is  due  to  this,  its  easy  digesti- 
bility, that  white  fish  by  some  is  considered  a  brain  food,  and 
not,  as  is  popularly  supposed,  to  the  amount  of  phosphorus  it 
contains;  in  fact,  fish  does  not  contain  as  much  phosphorus 
as  some  meat.  Fish  contains  less  extractives  than  meat  and 
it  is  due  to  this  that  people  tire  more  quickly  of  it  than  of 
meat. 

Lemon  juice  and  vinegar  are  desirable  condiments  to  serve 
with  fish.  The  acid  is  a  desirable  neutralizing  agency,  as  the 
juice  of  fish,  especially  shellfish,  is  of  an  alkaline  nature. 

Nutritive  Value.  The  chief  nutritive  constituents  of  fish, 
as  of  meat,  are  their  proteins  and  fats.  Their  energy  value 
depends  largely  on  the  amount  of  fat  they  contain. 


FISH  161 

When  Fish  are  in  Season.  Halibut,  haddock,  flounder  and 
cod,  are  in  season  all  the  year. 

Turbot,  October  to  May;  shad,  February  to  May;  salmon, 
May  to  September;  blue  fish  and  mackerel,  May  to  October; 
sturgeon,  April  to  September;  trout  (lake),  April  to  August. 

Test  for  Freshness.  In  fresh  fish  the  gills  are  red,  the  eyes 
bright  and  protruding,  the  flesh  is  firm  and  there  is  no  un- 
pleasant odor.  The  first  two  tests  disappear  after  the  fish 
has  been  out  of  water  a  short  time,  and  although  the  flavor  of 
the  fish  is  not  as  good,  it  is  not  spoiled.  But  if  the  last  two 
tests  are  not  present  the  fish  should  not  be  used.  Great  care 
should  be  taken  that  fish  is  perfectly  fresh,  in  season,  and 
thoroughly  cooked,  or  it  will  be  indigestible  and  sometimes 
poisonous.  Unless  these  conditions  are  known  to  exist,  fish 
should  not  be  served  to  the  sick. 

"  In  many  European  cities  fish  are  sold  alive,  the  customer 
selecting  his  fish  as  it  swims  in  a  tank.  It  would  seem  that 
this  excellent  method  might  be  used  in  our  cities,  especially 
those  situated  on  the  seaboard,  at  least  for  customers  who  are 
fastidious  and  who  are  willing  to  pay  an  extra  price  for 
a  special  article  when  it  is  warranted."  (Farmer's  Bulletin 
No.  375.) 

Principles  to  be  Observed  in  Cooking  Fish.  As  in  meat, 
albumin  is  the  principal  constituent  to  be  considered  in  the 
cooking  of  fish.  Hence  the  same  principles  which  apply  to 
the  cooking  of  meat  apply  also  to  the  cooking  of  fish. 

See  page  11,  for  effect  of  heat  on  albumin. 

Objective  Points  and  Methods: 

To  Retain  the  Juice. —  Baking,  Broiling,  Boiling  and  Fry- 
ing. 

To  Extract  the  Juice. —  Soup. 

To  Extract  and  Retain  the  Juice. —  Chowder. 

ENERGY  VALUE  OF  FISH 

See  Table,  under  names  of  fish,  as  Halibut,  Salmon,  etc. 
See  Table,  page  64,  for  energy  value  of  other  ingredients. 


162  ANIMAL  FOODS 

BROILED    FISH 

White  fish,  trout,  small  blue  fish,  mackerel,  shad  and  small 
cod  should  be  split  down  the  back,  and  broiled  whole,  and  if 
preferred,  cut  off  the  head  and  tail.  Halibut  and  salmon 
should  be  cut  into  inch  slices  and  turned  often  while  broil- 
ing. 

Clean  Fish.  Wipe  with  a  cloth  wet  in  salt-water,  and  dry 
on  a  fish  towel.  Season ;  oily  fish  need  only  salt  and  pepper, 
but  dry  white  fish  should  be  spread  with  butter  and  salt  and 
pepper  before  broiling.  Use  a  double  wire  broiler  greased 
well  with  salt  pork  rind.  Put  thickest  edge  of  fish  next 
middle  of  broiler,  turn  often  while  broiling;  with  split  fish 
sear  the  flesh  side  first  and  then  turn. 

The  time  of  cooking  will  vary  with  the  thickness  of  fish. 
Fish  is  done  when  flesh  separates  easily  from  the  bone. 

The  fire  should  be  hot  and  clear.  When  ready  to  serve, 
loosen  the  fish  from  broiler  on  each  side.  Open  broiler,  slide 
fish  onto  platter,  having  flesh  side  uppermost.  Spread  with 
butter,  salt  and  pepper.  Garnish  with  parsley  and  slices  of 
lemon.  Or  serve  with  Butter  Cream  and  a  border  of  potato 
balls. 

Note  "  Fish  Sauces  "  for  Butter  Cream. 

BAKED  FISH 

Clean  fish.  Wipe  with  cloth  wet  in  salted  water,  dry  on  a 
fish  towel  and  bake  on  a  greased  fish  sheet,  placed  in  a  drip- 
ping pan.  A  strip  of  cotton  cloth,  by  which  it  may  be  lifted 
from  the  pan,  may  be  substituted  for  the  fish  sheet.  Sprinkle 
with  salt  and  pepper,  brush  over  with  melted  butter,  dredge 
with  flour,  and  place  around  fish  small  pieces  of  fat  salt  pork. 
Bake  in  hot  oven  until  fish  separates  from  bone  when  lifted 
with  fork.  Baste  every  ten  minutes.  Serve  plain  with 
melted  butter,  or  with  Egg  Sauce. 

Note  "  Fish  Sauces  "  for  Egg  Sauce. 


FISH  163 

HALIBTJT  A  LA  CREOLE,  413  CALORIES 

y2  pound  halibut.  1  clove. 

y2  cup  tomatoes.  y2  teaspoon  sugar. 

y±  cup  water.  %  tablespoon  butter. 

Small  piece  onion.  "i    tablespoon  flour. 

Sprig  parsley.  Salt  and  pepper. 

Tomato  Sauce.  Blend  tomatoes,  water,  onion,  parsley, 
clove  and  BUgar,  and  cook  ten  minutes. 

Melt  the  butter,  add  the  flour  and  pour  on  gradually  the 
hot  mixture.  Add  salt  and  pepper  to  taste,  cook  five  minutes 
and  strain. 

Clean  fish.  Wipe  with  cloth  wet  with  cold  salted  water 
and  dry  thoroughly.  Put  in  baking  tin,  pour  around  half 
the  sauce  and  bake  until  fish  separates  easily  from  bone, 
basting  often.  Serve  on  hot  platter,  pour  around  it  the  re- 
mainder of  the  sauce  and  garnish  with  parsley. 

CREAMED  FISH 
(Individual  Rule.) 

y2   cup  cooked  fish,  remove  skin    *4    cup    cream    or    white    sauce 
and   bone,   and   flake  the   flesh        (note  Fish  Sauces), 
with  a  fork;  season  with  salt, 
pepper,     and     a     little     lemon 
juice. 

Blend  the  fish  and  white  sauce,  reheat  and  serve  on  toast, 
garnish  with  parsley  and  half-slice  of  lemon;  or  serve  in 
bread  cases  made  of  slices  of  bread  cut  two  inches  thick, 
round  off  edges,  scoop  out  center,  leaving  case,  brush  with 
softened  butter  and  brown  in  oven. 

Note. —  White  sauce  may  be  poured  on  one  egg  yolk  before 
adding  fish. 

SCALLOPED   FISH 

Put  creamed  fish  into  small  baking  dish,  cover  with  dried 
bread  or  cracker  crumbs;  dot  with  bits  of  butter  ami  brown 
in  oven. 

CREAMED  CODFISH,  828  CALORIES 

Flake  Bait  codfish  in  small  pieces,  remove  the  bono;  the  fish 

should  be  put  into  several  cold  waters  to  remove  some  of  the 


164  ANIMAL  FOODS 

salt.  Prepare  the  potatoes,  cutting  them  into  eighths,  or  ii 
small  into  fourths,  add  the  shredded  fish  and  boiling  water 
to  cover;  cook  until  potatoes  are  tender,  drain  off  the  water 
j(saving  it  for  the  sauce),  add  a  little  butter  and  season  with 
pepper,  and  mash  lightly  and  heap  in  center  of  platter. 

Sauce 

1  pint  fish  and  potato  water.  4  tablespoons  flour. 

4  tablespoons  butter.  Pepper. 

Melt  the  butter,  add  the  flour  and  pour  on  gradually  the 
potato  water.  Cook  thoroughly,  season  with  pepper,  and 
pour  about  the  codfish,  and  garnish  with  slices  of  hard-cooked 
egg  and  parsley. 

CREAMED  CODFISH  (FOR  THE  DIABETIC),  314  CALORIES 

y2  cup  flaked  codfish.  y2  teaspoon   Gum   Gluten   flour. 

1  cup  milk  or  cream.  Yolk  1  egg. 

y2  teaspoon  butter.  Pepper. 

Soak  the  fish  in  two  waters ;  melt  the  butter,  add  the  flour 
and  pour  on  gradually  the  scalded  milk ;  cook  thoroughly,  add 
codfish  and  egg,  cook  five  minutes,  season  and  serve  on  Gum 
Gluten  toast  or  fresh  bread. 

CREAMED  FISH  (FOR  THE  DIABETIC),  208  CALORIES 

y2  cup  cooked  fish.  y2  cup  cream  sauce. 

Salt,   pepper,   lemon  juice.  Gum  Gluten  bread  crumbs. 

Season  fish  with  salt,  pepper  and  lemon  juice,  add  cream 
sauce,  put  into  ramikins  or  cups,  sprinkle  with  Gum  Gluten 
crumbs,  and  bake. 

BAKED  FISH  (FOR  THE  DIABETIC),  480  CALORIES 

For  baked  fish  make  a  dressing  with  one  cup  of  Gum 
Gluten  bread  crumbs,  one-half  an  onion,  chopped  fine;  one 
tablespoon  celery,  chopped  fine,  one  tablespoon  of  butter ;  pep- 
per, salt,  lemon  juice  and  parsley. 

FISH   (FOR  THE  DIABETIC) 

Fish  should  be  rubbed  with  salt  and  pepper  and  dipped  in 
Gum  Gluten  Flour,  or  rolled  in  egg  and  Gum  Gluten  Cracker 
crumbs.     Saute  (or  fry)  in  oil  or  butter. 


FISH  SAUCES  165 

FISH  SAUCES 

BUTTER  CREAM 

Cream  a  little  butter;  season  with  salt,  cayenne,  lemon 
juice  (speck  salt  and  pepper,  one-half  teaspoon  lemon  juice). 
Add  finely  minced  parsley  or  chopped  pickle,  such  as  cucum- 
ber or  olive.  Prepare  quantity  according  to  size  of  fish.  Put 
it  on  the  fish,  and  place  in  oven  a  moment  until  butter  is 
melted. 

CREAM  OR  WHITE  SAUCE,  125  CALORIES 

(Individual  Rule.) 
y2  tablespoon  butter.  V3  cup  hot  milk, 

tablespoon  flour.  Salt. 

Melt  butter,  add  flour,  remove  from  fire,  and  pour  on 
gradually  the  milk,  stirring  constantly.  Bring  to  the  boiling 
point,  cook  thoroughly  and  season. 

Xote. —  Extra  milk  may  be  added  if  a  thinner  sauce  is 
desired,  using  one-half  cup  milk. 

CREAM  SAUCE  (FOR  THE  DIABETIC),  138  CALORIES 
y2  cup  milk.  Salt. 

1  teaspoon  Gum  Gluten  flour.        Cayenne. 
1  teaspoon   butter. 

Melt  the  butter,  add  the  flour  and  pour  on  gradually  the 
scalded  milk ;  cook  thoroughly  and  season. 

EGG  SAUCE,  434  CALORIES 
tablespoons  butter.  Speck  pepper, 

tablespoons   flour.  ip  hot  water. 

14  teaspoon  salt.  2  eggs. 

It  one-half  the  butter;  add  flour  and  seasoning  and 
pour  on  gradually  the  hot  water.  Boil  five  minutes  and  add 
remainder  of  butter  in  small  pie  !   two  hard-cooked 

eggs  cut  into  one-fourth  inch  slices,  or  the  beaten  yolks  may 
be  added  to  hot  sauce  with  one-half  teaspoon  lemon  juice. 


166  ANIMAL  FOODS 

EGG  SAUCE  NO.  II 
To  Cream  or  White  Sauce  add  one  hard-cooked  egg  chopped 
fine  and  a  little  lemon  juice  if  desired;  or  add  to  White 
Sauce,  yolk  slightly  beaten  and  a  few  drops  of  lemon  juice. 

TOMATO  SAUCE,  80  CALORIES 

y2  tablespoon  butter.  Few  grains  salt. 

y2  tablespoon   flour.  Few  grains  pepper. 

14  cup   strained  tomato  juice. 

Brown  butter,  add  flour  and  stir  until  slightly  browned; 
remove  from  fire  and  pour  on  gradually,  stirring  constantly, 
the  heated  tomato.     Cook  thoroughly  and  add  salt  and  pepper. 

Note. —  A  sprig  of  parsley,  one  clove  and  a  small  piece  of 
onion  may  be  added  to  tomato  while  heating. 

CUCUMBER  RELISH,  15  CALORIES 

Grate  one-half  cucumber  and  add  a  small  piece  of  red  pep- 
per chopped  fine;  season  with  salt,  pepper  and  vinegar  and 
serve  with  fish. 

HOLLANDAISE,  484  CALORIES 

I  egg  yolk.  %  teaspoon  salt. 

4  tablespoons  butter.  White  pepper. 

%  tablespoon  vinegar.  3  tablespoons  boiling  water. 

Put  one  tablespoon  butter  in  top  of  double  boiler,  add  the 
other  ingredients.  Place  over  hot  water  and  stir  constantly 
while  butter  is  melting.  Add  second  tablespoon  of  butter 
and  stir  until  melted,  repeat  this  process, until  all  butter  is 
used.  As  soon  as  the  mixture  begins  to  thicken  remove  from 
hot  water.  Vary  by  adding  a  little  chopped  parsley,  gratec. 
horse-radish  root. 

SHELL-FISH 

OYSTERS  AND  CLAMS 

Only  the  mollusks  are  considered  in  this  book,  because  the 
crustaceans  are  not  easily  digested,  and  therefore  are  not  suit- 
able for  an  invalid  diet. 

Oysters.     Oysters  are  valuable  food  for  invalids  and  con- 


SHELL-FISH  1G7 

valescents.  Their  nutritive  value  is  not  high,  but  they  are 
easily  digested  and  possess  a  delicate  flavor  which  is  ac- 
ceptable to  most  palates. 

Composition.  The  live  food  principles  are  represented  in 
oysters.  Reckoned  as  "  solid,"  i.  e.,  removed  from  the  shell, 
oysters  contain  88.3  per  cent,  of  water,  6.1  per  cent,  protein, 
1.4  per  cent,  fat,  and  3.3  per  cent,  carbohydrate.  Oysters 
come  nearer  to  milk  than  almost  any  other  common  food 
material,  both  in  amount  and  proportion  of  nutritive  prin- 
ciples. 

The  carbohydrate  is  in  the  form  of  glycogen,  being  found 
in  the  liver,  which  constitutes  a  large  proportion  of  the  oyster. 

Digestibility.  The  soft  part  of  the  oyster  or  clam  is  made 
up  largely  of  the  stomach  and  liver  and  is  easily  digested 
when  cooked  in  a  variety  of  ways  —  broiling,  roasting,  stew- 
ing, panning  and  steaming  —  but  not  fried  when  served  to 
the  sick. 

The  hard  part  of  shellfish  is  the  muscle  which  fastens  the 
animal  to  the  shell,  and  is  rendered  tougher  by  all  forms  of 
cooking;  therefore,  when  whole  oysters  are  to  be  eaten,  they 
are  more  easily  digested  when  served  raw  or  broiled  slightly 
in  the  shell.  They  can  be  digested  by  fever  patients  and 
those  suffering  from  many  forms  of  gastric  disorders. 

It  is  desirable  in  acute  illness  to  serve  only  the  soft  part 
of  the  oyster,  but  in  the  later  stages  of  convalescence  the 
whole  oyster  can  be  served  raw  or  in  stew  and  soups,  which 
are  recommended  on  account  of  their  liquid  form  and  warmth. 

Wlien  in  Season.  Oysters  are  in  season  from  September  to 
May.  During  the  rest  of  the  year  they  are  insipid  and  unfit 
for  food. 

Principles  to  be  Carefully  Observed  in  Serving  and  Cook- 
ing Oysters  for  the  Sick,  (a)  Make  every  effort  to  have  the 
oyster  alive  when  used,  or  as  fresh  as  can  be  obtained  from 
a  reliable  dealer.  Many  serious  cases  of  illness  and  even 
death  have  been  caused  by  eating  oysters  so  long  dead  that 
poisonous  substances  had  formed  in  them.  Great  care  should 
also  be  taken  that  oysters  are  not  procured  from  beds  where 


1G8  ANIMAL  FOODS 

the  water  has  been  contaminated  in  any  way.  "  As  it  is  in 
general  impossible  to  learn  their  origin  the  rule  of  never  eat- 
ing them  in  the  raw  state  is  adopted  by  many.  The  practice 
of  fattening  or  '  floating '  oysters  in  fresh  or  in  brackish 
water  robs  them  of  much  of  their  fine  flavor,  and  since  the 
most  accessible  supply  of  such  water  is  at  the  outlet  of 
streams,  and  as  such  streams  are  frequently  polluted  by  sew- 
age, many  persons  believe  that  this  practice  should  be  for- 
bidden by  law."  x 

(b)  Oysters  contain  an  albuminous  substance  which  in- 
creases in  hardness  with  an  increase  of  temperature,  just  as 
the  albumin  of  an  egg  does.  When  oysters  are  cooked  with 
reference  to  this  albuminous  substance,  they  are  also  cooked 
in  the  best  possible  manner  with  reference  to  their  other  con- 
stituents; therefore  subject  them  to  a  low  temperature,  for 
a  short  time,  bearing  in  mind  that  160  to  180  degrees  Fahren- 
heit is  the  cooking  temperature  of  albumin. 

General  rule  is  to  remove  the  oyster  from  heat  as  soon 
as  the  body  grows  plump  and  the  edges  curl,  if  cooked  be- 
yond this  stage  they  are  over-cooked. 

Varieties.  In  New  York  State  the  "  Blue  Points "  are 
considered  the  finest  for  serving  raw.  They  come  originally 
from  Blue  Point,  Long  Island. 

In  Massachusetts  the  "  Cove  "  Oyster  is  considered  the  fin- 
est for  serving  raw.  They  come  from  a  still  water  cove  near 
Plymouth. 

Clams.  Clams  are  similar  in  composition  to  the  oyster 
and  same  general  rules  followed  in  preparing  and  serving. 
They  are  much  used  for  food  and  considered  a  great  delicacy. 
They  contain  a  tough  portion  that  is  not  used  in  sick-room 
cookery,  but  the  clear  juice,  on  account  of  its  digestibility 
and  stimulating  properties,  is  invaluable  in  the  sick  room. 
Clams  are  in  season  all  the  year  around. 

Varieties.  There  are  two  varieties,  the  hard  and  soft  shell 
clams.     The  hard  shell  are  known  as  quahaugs.     The  small 

1  Farmer's  Bulletin   No.    375. 


OYSTERS  169 

or  round  "little  neck  clams  "  take  the  place  of  Blue  Points 
to  serve  raw  when  oysters  are  out  of  season. 

ENERGY  VALUE   OF  OYSTERS 

2  oysters     =14  Calories. 

100  grams   oysters    =50  Calorics. 

1  cup    ( solid )    oysters    =3  84  Calories. 

See  Table,  page  64,  for  energy  value  of  other  ingredients. 
RAW  OYSTERS 

Wash,  scrub  the  shells  well  under  a  stream  of  water  with 
a  vegetable  brush.  "With  a  hammer  break  the  thin  edges  of 
the  shell  so  that  a  knife  may  be  inserted  to  sever  the  muscle 
which  holds  the  two  parts  of  the  shell  together;  when  this  is 
cut  remove  the  upper  half  and  wipe  the  edges  free  from  any 
grains  of  sand.  Then  sever  the  muscle  which  joins  the  oyster 
to  the  other  shell,  so  that  it  may  be  easily  lifted  out  without 
the  necessity  of  cutting.  Arrange  six  oysters  on  an  oyster- 
plate  on  crushed  ice,  and  serve  with  salt,  black  pepper  and 
lemon  juice.  A  quarter  of  lemon  cut  lengthwise  may  be 
placed  in  the  center  of  plate,  and  bit  of  parsley. 

OYSTERS   ROASTED   IN   THE   SHELL 

Wash  the  shells  very  carefully  with  a  brush.  Put  them 
in  a  wire  broiler  over  glowing  coals,  the  round  side  of  shell 
down  so  as  to  hold  the  juice.  Cook  them  quickly,  turning 
once  or  twice  until  the  shell  opens.  They  may  also  be  cooked 
in  a  hot  oven.  When  done  remove  the  upper  half  of  the  shell ; 
season  them  quickly  with  salt,  pepper  and  a  tiny  bit  of  but- 
ter and  vinegar,  if  liked,  and  serve  them  while  very  hot. 

The  true  oyster  flavor  is  delightfully  developed  by  pre- 
paring in  this  way.  They  may  also  be  served  with  melted 
butter,  salt,  pepper  and  lemon  juice. 

TO  WASH   OYSTERS 
Place  oysters  in  strainer  over  a  bowl  and  pour  one  table- 
spoon of  water  over  each  one-half  cup  of  oysters.     Take  each 
oyster  up  in  fingers  and  remove  any  particle  of  shell  that  may 
adhere  to  tough  muscle. 


170  ANIMAL  FOODS 

PAN  ROAST  OYSTERS 

"Wash  oysters  and  put  in  saute  pan  or  chafing  dish  and 
gently  stir  with  spoon.     When  bodies  grow  plump  and  the 
edges  curl  remove  from  heat.     Season  with  salt  and  pepper 
and  a  little  butter  and  serve  on  rounds  of  toast,  with  eighth 
of   lemon   for   individual   dishes;    or   serve   on   platter   and 
garnish  with  toast  points,  watercress  and  lemon. 
BROILED  OYSTERS,  320  CALORIES 
(Individual  Rule.) 
4  oysters.  4  teaspoons  butter. 

14  cup  cracker  crumbs.  Salt  and  pepper. 

Select  large  oysters.  Wash,  drain  and  dry  between  towels. 
Melt  butter.  Season  cracker  crumbs  with  salt  and  pepper. 
With  silver  fork  lift  each  oyster  by  tough  muscle,  and  dip 
first  in  butter,  then  in  crumbs.  Place  on  a  buttered  fine  wire 
broiler  and  broil,  turning  often  until  brown  and  the  juice  be- 
gins to  flow.  Serve  plain,  garnished  with  parsley  and  a  pieoe 
of  lemon  or  prepare  cream  toast  and  sprinkle  with  fine 
chopped  celery,  and  place  the  broiled  oysters  on  top. 

CREAMED  OYSTERS,  284  CALORIES  1 

(Individual  Rule.) 

8  oysters.  y2  CUP  rich  milk  or  thin  cream. 

1  tablespoon  butter.  Salt. 

I14  tablespoon  flour.  White  pepper. 

Wash,  drain  and  dry  oyster  between  towels.  Melt  butter 
and  remove  from  fire,  add  the  flour  and  pour  on  gradually  the 
scalded  milk.  Season  with  salt  and  pepper.  Cook  thor- 
oughly. Add  the  oysters  and  heat  until  the  edges  curl  and 
the  bodies  grow  plump.  Serve  at  once  on  rounds  of  toast 
and  garnish  with  toast  points  and  parsley  or  in  crisped  "  bread 
cases."     See  "  Creamed  Fish." 

CREAMED  OYSTERS  NO.  II,  340  CALORIES  2 
(Individual  Rule.) 
y2  cup  thin  cream  or  rich  milk.    1  teaspoon  butter. 
1  tablespoon  flour.  8  oysters. 

14  teaspoon  salt. 

1  Calculated  -with  whole  milk. 

2  Calculated  with  thin  cream. 


OYSTERS  171 

Wet  the  flour  with  a  little  cold  milk;  scald  the  cream,  add 
the  flour  and  cook  well.  Just  before  serving  add  the  drained 
oysters  and  cook  until  they  grow  plump  and  the  edges  curl; 
add  the  salt  and  butter.  Serve  in  Swedish  timbale  shells,  lit- 
tle seooped-out  buns,  or  on  rounds  of  toast. 

SCALLOPED  OYSTERS,  365  CALORIES 

(Individual  Rule.) 
y2  cup  oysters.  Salt. 

!4   cup  cracker  crumbs.  Pepper. 

%  cup  stale  bread  crumbs.  y2  tablespoon  cream. 

1   tablespoon  melted  butter.  1  tablespoon  oyster  liquor. 

Prepare  the  oysters.  Stir  together  crumbs  and  melted  but- 
ter. Butter  a  small  baking  dish  and  sprinkle  part  of  the 
crumbs  in  it.  Put  in  half  the  oysters,  sprinkle  with  salt 
and  pepper,  then  a  layer  of  crumbs,  pour  over  enough  cream 
or  oyster  liquor  to  moisten  well,  add  the  remaining  oysters, 
season,  and  finish  with  a  layer  of  crumbs  on  top.  Bake  in  a 
hot  oven  about  ten  minutes,  till  oysters  are  plump  and  crumbs 
browned.     Serve  hot. 

Xever  allow  more  than  two  layers  as  they  will  not  cook 
evenly.  A  sprinkling  of  mace  or  nutmeg  is  considered  an 
improvement  by  some.  Sherry  wine  may  be  used  in  place 
of  cream. 

OYSTER   SOUP,   252   CALORIES 

(Individual  Rule.) 
y2  cup  oysters.  1  tablespoon  butter. 

y4  cup   water.  %  tablespoon  flour. 

y2  cup  milk.  Grating  of  mace. 

Bit  of  onion.  Salt  and  pepper. 

9  Id  the  milk.  Melt  the  butter,  add  the  flour  and  pour 
mi  gradually  the  scalded  milk;  add  mace  and  onion,  and  cook 
thoroughly. 

Put  oysters  in  a  strainer  placed  over  a  bowl,  add  water  and 

ally  pick  over  oysters  to  remove  particles  of  shell.     Heat 

liquor  which  has  drained  from  oysters  to  the  boiling  point, 

strain  through  two  thicknesses  of  cheese-cloth  and  return  to 


172  ANIMAL  FOODS 

saucepan,  add  oysters  and  cook  until  plump  and  edges  curl. 
Drain  off  liquor  and  add  to  soup.  Season,  add  oysters  and 
serve  immediately. 

OYSTER  SOUP   (FOR  THE   DIABETIC),   107   CALORIES 

(Two  Servings.) 
One-half  pint  of  oysters,  heated  in  their  own  liquor ;  strain. 
Put  in  saucepan  one-half  teaspoonful  butter  and  a  scant  half- 
teaspoonful  of  Gum  Gluten  Flour,  add  liquor,  and,  when 
slightly  thick,  oysters,  pepper  and  salt.  For  variety,  add 
occasionally  a  tablespoonful  of  cream. 

OYSTER  STEW,  205  CALORIES 

(Individual  Rule.) 
y2  cup  oysters.  14  teaspoon  salt. 

%  cup  milk.  Speck  pepper. 

%  tablespoon  water.  %  tablespoon   butter. 

Scald  the  milk.  Put  oysters  in  a  strainer  placed  over  a 
bowl,  and  add  water.  Carefully  pick  over  oysters  to  remove 
particles  of  shell.  Heat  the  liquor  which  has  drained  from 
the  oysters  to  the  boiling  point,  and  strain  through  the  finest 
strainer  and  cheese-cloth,  return  to  saucepan  and  put  in  the 
oysters  and  simmer,  but  do  not  boil,  until  they  begin  to  grow 
plump  and  the  edges  curl  and  separate.  Strain  the  liquor 
into  the  scalded  milk,  season,  add  oysters  and  serve  imme- 
diately. 

CLAMS 
ENERGY    VALUE    OF    CLAMS 

y2  dozen  clams    =40  Calories. 

3y3    ounces    clam   bouillon =    2  Calories. 

1  quart  clam  bouillon   =  23  Calories. 

See  Table,  page  64,  for  energy  value  of  other  ingredients. 

LITTLE  NECK  CLAMS 

Serve  raw  on  the  half-shell  in  same  manner  as  raw  oysters. 

STEAMED  CLAMS 

For  steaming,  clams  should  be  bought  in  the  shell.  Wash 
in  several  waters,   scrubbing   thoroughly.     Put   into   kettle, 


clams  m 

allowing  one-fourth  cup  water  to  one  quart  clams.  Cover 
closely  and  steam  until  clams  partially  open.  Care  should 
be  taken  not  to  overcook  them.  Serve  with  melted  butter.  A 
few  drops  of  lemon  juice  may  be  added  to  butter. 

CLAM   BROTH 

(Individual  Rule.) 
1  dozen  elams.  2  tablespoons  cold  water. 

Wash  clams  and  scrub  with  a  brush,  changing  the  water 
several  times.  Put  in  saucepan,  add  water,  cover,  and  cook 
until  shells  open.  Eemove  clams  from  shell,  adding  liquor 
which  comes  from  them,  to  liquor  already  in  saucepan. 
Strain  liquor  through  double  thickness  of  cheese-cloth.  Serve 
hot,  cold,  or  frozen. 

CLAM  WATER 
(Individual  Rule.) 
%  cup  cold  water.  Clam  Broth. 

To  the  water  add  the  required  amount  of  the  clam  broth 
to  make  the  strength  desired.  Serve  hot,  cold,  or  frozen. 
When  necessary,  serve  in  small  quantity  and  repeat  at  short 
intervals. 

Xote. —  Clam  broth  served  in  the  several  ways  (as  a 
variety)  is  invaluable  in  case  of  weak  stomach,  indigestion 
and  general,  debility. 

CLAM  WATER  NO.  II,  17  CALORIES 

(Individual  Rule.) 
*4  cup  Clam  Broth.  Pepper. 

1  tablespoon  milk.  %  teaspoon   butter. 

y2  cup  hot  water. 

Blend  the  clam  broth,  milk  and  hot  water,  season  with 
pepper  and  add  the  butter.     Serve  hot. 

Note. —  The  pepper  and  butter  may  be  omitted  when  neces- 
sary. 


174  ANIMAL  FOODS 

CLAM  STEW,   250   CALORIES 

(Individual  Rule.) 

y2  cup  clam  broth.  %  teaspoon  salt. 

y2  cup  scalded  milk.  Speck  pepper. 

1  tablespoon  butter.  Soft  part  of  1  dozen  clams. 

y2  tablespoon  flour. 

Melt  butter,  add  flour,  add  gradually  the  scalded  milk  and 
clam  broth,  and  cook  thoroughly.  Season,  add  clams  and 
serve  hot. 

CLAM  SOUP,  276  CALORIES 
(Individual  Rule.) 

y2  dozen  clams.  y2  tablespoon  butter. 

y8  cup  cold  water.  y2  tablespoon  flour. 

1  cup  milk.  Salt  and  pepper. 

Wash  and  scrub  clams  and  put  in  kettle  with  cold  water. 
Cook  until  shells  open.  Take  from  shell  and  cut  off  the 
tough  parts;  save  the  soft  parts  for  the  soup  and  keep  warm. 
Scald  the  milk.  Melt  the  butter,  add  the  flour  and  pour 
on  gradually  the  hot  milk.  Cook  thoroughly;  add  soft  parts 
of  clams  and  juice,  season  with  salt  and  pepper,  and  serve 
immediately  and  hot. 

CLAM  BOUILLON,  45  CALORIES 

(Two  Servings.) 
%  cup  cold  water.  Salt. 

y2  cup  clam  broth.  Pepper. 

%  cup  scalding  milk.  Celery  sauce. 

y2  teaspoon  butter.  White  of  egg  or  whipped  cream. 

Blend  the  water  and  clam  broth,  heat  to  the  boiling  point, 
then  add  the  scalding  milk,  the  butter,  and  stir  well;  season 
with  salt,  pepper  and  celery  sauce  to  taste.  A  small  quan- 
tity of  cracker  crumbs  may  be  added  to  thicken  it.  Serve  in 
heated  bouillon  cups  and  garnish  with  two  teaspoons  of 
whipped  cream  or  well-beaten  white  of  egg. 


EGGS  175 

CLAM  BOUILLON  BISQUE,  355  CALORIES 
(Two  Servings.) 
y2  tablespoon  butter.  ys  tablespoon   flour. 

1  tablespoon  chopped  onion.  1  cup  boiling  water. 

y2  tablespoon   chopped   carrot.        Yolk   1  egg. 
1  cup  clam  broth.  %   cup   cream. 

Melt  the  butter,  add  the  finely  chopped  onion  and  carrot, 
cover  and  cook  until  the  onion  and  carrot  are  tender,  stirring 
it  occasionally.  Add  the  flour,  blending  well;  then  pour  on 
gradually  the  boiling  water  and  the  clam  broth.  Cook  five 
minutes,  strain  and  return  to  saucepan.  Mix  the  yolk  of  egg 
with  the  cream,  and  add  it  slowly  to  the  Bisque.  Pour  into 
heated  bouillon  cups,  and  serve  with  small  oyster  crackers. 

ALBUMINIZED   CLAM  WATER 

See  "  Albuminized  Beverages  "  for  recipe.     Page  123. 

CLAM  BROTH  NO.  II 

See  "  Meat.  Broth  and  Jellies"  for  recipe.     Page  220. 

CLAM  BROTH  ON  TOAST 

See  "  Toast  "  for  recipe.     Page  258. 

CLAM  FRAPPE 

See  "Ices"  for  recipe.     Page  313. 

CLAM  SHERBET 

See  "  Sherbets  "  for  recipe.     Page  312. 

EGGS1 

Many  kinds  of  eggs  are  eaten,  but  hens'  eggs  are  the  only 
ones  necessary  of  consideration  as  a  staple  article  of  diet. 
The  shell  constitutes  about  1.1  per  cent,  of  the  weight  of  the 
whole  egg,  the  yolk  32  per  cent.,  and  the  white  57  per  cent. 

Composition.  Eggs  are  albuminous  in  nature  and  con- 
sist practically  of  the  following  substances  —  protein,  water. 
fat  and  mineral  matter.  The  composition  of  the  hen's  egg  is 
as  follov 

1  For  further  information,  note  "Eggs  and  Their  Uses  as  Food."  Fann- 
er's Bulletin  No.  128,   U.  8.  Dept.  of  Agriculture,   Washington,  D.  0. 


176  ANIMAL  FOODS 

Fuel  value 
Refuse     Water     Protein        Fat       Ash    per  pound 

calories 
Whole  egg  as  purchased.  .  .12.2%      65.5%      11.9%        9.3%      0.9%         635 
Whole  egg,  edible  portion.  .  73.7%      13.4%      10.5%      1.0%         720 

White      86.2%      12.3%         0.2%      0.6%  250 

Yolk      49.5%      15.7%      33.3%      1.1%       1705 

From  this  table  it  may  be  seen  that  the  white  of  egg  con- 
sists of  eight-tenths  water,  the  remaining  portion  being  prin- 
cipally protein  (albumin),  with  a  little  mineral  matter,  etc., 
the  yolk  is  about  half  water,  one-third  fat,  and  nearly  one- 
sixth  protein,  with  almost  twice  as  much  mineral  matter  as 
the  white. 

Varieties.  By  eggs  the  product  of  the  domestic  fowl  are 
commonly  meant.  The  eggs  of  the  duck,  goose,  turkey,  etc., 
are  edible,  but  are  hardly  suited  for  the  sick,  because  of  their 
stronger  flavor.  The  purely  white  eggs  are  usually  selected 
for  the  invalid,  but  many  regard  the  brown-shelled  egg  as  the 
more  delicate. 

Digestibility.  Eggs  are  easily  digested  and  very  thoroughly 
absorbed  in  the  intestines.  If  the  absorption  is  delayed,  de- 
composition follows  with  production  of  sulphuretted  hydrogen 
and  ammonia,  which  causes  considerable  gastro-enteric  disturb- 
ance. The  yolk  is  usually  the  cause  of  this  disturbance.  The 
digestibility  of  an  egg  depends  upon  its  freshness  and  the 
manner  in  which  it  is  cooked.  1  Carelessness  in  cooking  and 
serving  may  make  an  egg  difficult  of  digestion  and  un- 
appetizing, when,  if  it  is  cooked  properly,  it  would  be  more 
palatable  and  easy  of  digestion.  A  raw  egg,  on  account  of  its 
blandness,  does  not  stimulate  the  flow  of  gastric  juice  and  is 
not  as  easily  digested  as  a  soft-cooked  egg;  but  by  heating  a 
raw  egg  the  albumin  is  finely  divided  and  is  more  quickly 
acted  upon  by  gastric  juice,  consequently  is  digested  about 
as  quickly  as  a  soft-cooked  egg.  Raw  eggs  are  added  to 
various  foods,  as  milk  and  broth,  etc.,  to  give  extra  nutriment. 
Eggs  are  freely  prescribed  for  those  suffering  from  loss  of 
flesh  and  strength,  as  the  convalescent,  anaemic,  or  in  tubercu- 

1  See  Albumin,  p.  11. 


EQQ&  177 

losis:  in  such  cases  as  many  as  twelve  eggs  being  given  in  as 
many  hours. 

A  soft-cooked  egg  digests  very  quickly. 

A  medium-cooked  egg  is  not  as  easily  digested  as  either 
the  raw,  soft  or  hard-cooked,  and  should  not  be  served  cooked 
in  this  manner  to  the  sick. 

A  hard-cooked  egg  as  commonly  cooked  is  difficult  to  di- 
gest, but  cooked  at  proper  temperature  and  chopped  very  fine 
will  digest  about  as  quickly  as  a  soft-cooked  egg. 

Nutritive  Value.  Eggs  are  a  very  nutritious  food,  com- 
parable with  meat,  milk,  cheese,  and  other  animal  foods,  both 
as  regards  total  food  material  and  the  total  protein  and  fat 
furnished  by  them.  At  twenty-five  cents  per  dozen  they  are 
commonly  considered  very  expensive,  but  this  must  not  be 
interpreted  too  literally.  Many  persons  will  be  satisfied  with 
an  egg  who  would  not  be  with  the  equivalent  food  value  in 
the  form  of  meat,  and  eggs  are  valuable  for  giving  varietv 
to  the  diet  and  for  furnishing  an  easily  digested  protein  food, 
especially  for  the  sedentary.  For  children  they  are  much 
better  than  meat,  because  the  fat  is  in  an  emulsified,  and 
hence  easily  digested  form,  and  because  of  their  ash  con- 
stituents. The  yolk  is  rich  in  compounds  of  iron,  phosphorus, 
calcium,  magnesium.  The  protein  of  egg  yolk  is  combined 
with  lecithin,  a  phosphorized  fat  which  has  come  to  be  re- 
garded  as  an  important  constituent  of  food,  especially  for  the 
growing  animal.  Egg  yolks  are  frequently  prescribed  for 
invalids  requiring  an  easily  assimilated,  concentrated  food. 
Tt  should  be  remembered  that  when  fat  is  barred  from  the 
3 jot,  ogg  yolk  should  not  be  given. 

Egg  white  is  valuable  chiefly  as  a  source  of  protein.  Be- 
cause of  its  mild  flavor  it  can  be  combined  with  many  sub- 
stances, especially  milk  and  other  beverages  (See  "  Al- 
buminous Beverages,"  page  118),  to  increase  the  nutritive 
value  of  a  liquid  or  semi-solid  diet. 

With   some  persons,   eggs   induce   const ipation,   or  have   a 

slight  aphrodisiac  effect.     They  contain  sulphur,  and  unless 

cd  before  decomposition  occurs  in  the  alimentary  tract, 


178  ANIMAL  FOODS 

give  rise  to  hydrogen  sulphide  gas.  They  should  not  be  eaten 
by  those  suffering  from  flatulent  dyspepsia,  gastric  dilatation, 
or  any  severe  gastric  derangement.  They  are  contraindicated 
in  acute  Bright's  disease. 

Principles  to  be  Observed  in  Cooking.  The  principal  con- 
stituent of  the  egg  is  albumin,  which  should  be  cooked  in 
such  a  manner  as  to  require  the  least  possible  expenditure  of 
force  in  digestion.  Those  who  are  ill  cannot  afford  to  waste 
energy,  and  whether  they  are  forced  to  do  so  or  not  depends 
much  upon  those  who  prepare  their  food. 

Effect  of  Temperature  on  Albumin.  See  "  Albumin/'  page 
11. 

The  proper  cooking  temperature  of  egg  albumin  is  160  to 
180  degree  Fahrenheit,  when  it  is  found  to  be  tender,  soft, 
jelly-like,  and  in  an  easily  digested  state. 

But  cooked  at  the  boiling  point  of  water,  212  degrees 
Fahrenheit,  albumin  is  found  to  be  firm,  compact,  tough  and 
indigestible.  With  this  knowledge  we  can  appreciate  the 
necessity  of  cooking  eggs  at  a  temperature  below  that  of  boil- 
ing water.  It  is  often  advisable  to  cook  the  white  and  yolk 
of  eggs  separately,  as  the  yolk  when  hard  cooked  (at  proper 
temperature)  and  mealy  is  more  easily  digested  than  the 
soft  cooked  yolk,  and  the  white  more  easily  digested  soft 
cooked. 

Suggestions.  Eggs  should  be  kept  in  a  cool,  dry  place. 
Always  wash  eggs  just  before  using.  Save  the  shell  for  mak- 
ing boiled  coffee,  as  the  shells  of  three  eggs  is  as  effective  in 
settling  coffee  as  one  whole  egg.  When  using  several  eggs 
break  them  separately  in  a  saucer  to  test  the  quality  of  each. 

In  beating  fresh  eggs  to  a  stiff  froth  the  albumin  entraps 
the  air,  forming  bubbles  which  expand  and  stiffen  when  ex- 
posed to  heat  and  blended  with  batter  and  dough,  thus  mak- 
ing the  food  light  and  spongy.  Stale  eggs  lose  this  quality 
of  I'mtliiness. 

Test  for  Fresh  Eggs.  (1)  The  shell  of  a  fresh  egg  is 
slightly  rough;  held  to  the  ear  and  shake  slightly  there  should 
be  little  sound,  held  in  front  of  electric  light  or  candle  in 


EGGS  179 

a  dark  room  if  they  look  more  transparent  in  center  they  are 
fresh,  if  more  transparent  at  ends,  are  stale. 

(2)  In  a  solution  made  of  two  ounces  of  common  salt  and 
one  pint  of  water,  an  egg  one  day  old  will  sink  (not  quite 
roach  the  bottom)  ;  three  days  old  will  barely  float  above  the 
surface,  and  seven  days  old  will  float  above  the  surface.  This 
is  due  to  the  loss  of  water  and  to  the  development  of  gases  of 
putrefaction.  Unless  air  is  excluded  from  eggs  they  very 
quickly  deteriorate  in  value  and  decompose. 

The  water  in  the  egg  evaporates  through  the  shell,  which 
is  porous,  and  air  rushes  in  to  take  its  place,  causing  decompo- 
sition of  the  organic  matter  of  the  egg,  the  result  being  the 
formation  of  various  gases  —  principally  sulphuretted  hydro- 
gen, due  to  the  action  of  putrefactive  bacteria  which  enter 
the  shell  with  air.  Eggs  eaten  in  this  state  may  cause  gastric 
and  intestinal  disorders,  therefore,  unless  eggs  are  perfectly 
fresh,  they  should  not  be  given  to  a  child  or  a  person  of 
delicate  digestion  or  the  sick. 

ENERGY  VALUE  OF  AN  EGG  i 
Calories 
I  egg   (without  shell)    small  60 

1  white   of   egg 13 

1  yolk    of    egg 48 

See  Table,  page  64,  for  energy  value  of  other  ingredients. 

SOFT   COOKED  EGGS 

"Wash  one  egg  and  put  it  in  a  small  saucepan  of  boiling 
water  to  cover ;  remove  to  back  of  stove,  or  where  the  water 
will  keep  very  hot,  but  not  boil.  Cook  seven  to  ten  minutes, 
according  to  consistency  desired.  Serve  in  slightly  heated 
cups. 

Xote. —  A  stone  crock  is  nice  to  use,  as  it  keeps  more  even 
heat.  A  double  boiler  may  be  used,  putting  boiling  water 
in  top  and  bottom,  set  on  back  of  stove  and  cook  six  to  seven 
minutes,  according  to  size  of  egg. 

Care  must  be  taken  that  the  size  of  utensil  is  in  accordance 
with  the  number  of  eggs  to  be  cooked,  so  that  the  cold  egg3 

1  Range  from  60  to  100  calories  according  to  size  of  egg. 

2  According  to  Dr.  W.  Coleman. 


Calories 

Calories 

medium  73 

large  80  2 

18 

30 

55 

50 

180  ANIMAL  FOODS 


will  lower  the  temperature  of  the  boiling  water.     Keep  tem- 
perature about  160  degree  Fahrenheit,  or  a  little  above. 


SOFT  COOKED  EGGS  NO.  II 


Wash  one  egg  and  put  it  in  a  small  saucepan  of  cold  water 
to  cover.  Bring  just  to  boiling  point,  remove  and  serve  in 
slightly  heated  cups. 

HARD  COOKED  EGGS 

Follow  directions  for  soft  cooked  eggs  No.  I,  allowing  egg 
to  remain  in  water  forty-five  minutes.  Chop  fine  and  add 
one-half  teaspoon  butter  and  a  few  grains  salt,  serve  in 
slightly  heated  cups. 

STEAMED  EGGS 

Butter  an  egg  shirrer  or  a  small  sauce-plate  and  pour  in 
the  eggs.  Salt,  place  in  steamer  over  boiling  water,  and 
cook  till  white  is  firm.  Cooked  in  this  manner,  the  white  is 
tender  and  light  and  can  be  eaten  by  invalids. 

BAKED  EGGS 

Plain  baked  eggs  make  a  pretty  breakfast  dish.  Take  a 
deep  earthen  plate,  butter  it  and  break  in  the  eggs,  adding 
salt,  pepper,  bits  of  butter,  and  bake  in  a  moderate  oven  until 
the  white  is  set.  Garnish  with  curled  parsley  and  serve  with 
buttered  toast.     Use  a  small  dish  to  prepare  one  egg. 

Note. —  Before  cooking  y2  tablespoon  of  cream  to  each 
egg  may  be  poured  over  them,  and  in  serving  a  little  grated 
cheese  may  be  sifted  over  the  top. 

BAKED  EGGS  (FOR  THE  DIABETIC) 

Break  an  egg  into  a  baking-cup,  pour  gently  over  it  a  large 
tablespoonful  of  melted  butter  sauce;  then  add  a  thick  layer 
of  grated  cheese;  sprinkle  with  Gum  Gluten  cracker  crumbs, 
and  dot  with  bits  of  butter.  Bake  until  the  egg  is  set,  and 
serve  at  once. 


EGGS  181 

GOLDEN-ROD  EGGS 

1  hard-cooked  egg  =  60  Calories.    2  slices  toast  =  146  Calories. 

Sauce  =  170  Calories. 

2  teaspoons  butter.  Speck  white  pepper. 
y%  tablespoon  flour.                           Salt. 

ya  cup  scalded  milk. 

Prepare  the  sauce.  Add  the  white  of  egg  chopped  fine, 
pour  over  the  toast  and  rub  the  yolk  through  a  strainer  over 
the  top.     Serve  at  once. 

Sauce.  Melt  butter,  add  flour  and  gradually  the  scalded 
milk;  cook  well  and  season  with  salt  and  pepper. 

EGG   NESTS,  142    CALORIES 

1  eg  1     round     of    toast    with     toast 

*4  teaspoon  butter.  points. 
Salt  to  taste. 

Toast  bread.  Separate  egg.  Beat  white  to  a  stiff  froth. 
Salt  to  taste.  Spread  toast  with  butter  and  put  white  of  egg 
on  in  shape  of  nest.  Make  a  depression  in  center,  put  in  the 
butter  and  drop  the  yolk  in  the  hollow.  Cook  in  a  moderate 
oven  three  or  four  minutes. 

Xote. —  May  be  cooked  in  tumbler  placed  in  pan  of  water, 
allowing  the  water  to  heat  gradually,  and  as  the  white  rises, 
make  a  depression  and  drop  in  yolk. 

It  may  be  served  with  Tomato  Sauce. 

FOAMY   OMELET,    144   CALORIES 
1  egg.  V2  saltspoon  salt. 

1  tablespoon  milk.  Speck  pepper. 

2  teaspoons  butter. 

-  arate  egg  and  beat  white  to  a  stiff  froth.  Beat  yolk 
till  li^ht,  add  milk,  salt  and  pepper;  lightly  fold  the  yolk 
into  the  white.  Put  butter  into  saute*  pan.  when  it  bubbles 
pour  in  the  mixture.  Gently  shake  pan  so  omelet  will  not 
adhere  to  it;  lift  up  at  sides  with  a  knife  to  see  when  done, 
and  when  a  delicate  brown  set  pan  in  oven  a  minute  to 
absorb  moisture  on  top.  Fold  omelet  half  over,  turn  on  a 
hot  dish,  and  serve  immediately. 


182  ANIMAL  FOODS 

Variations.  Mix  one  tablespoon  ham,  or  any  meat, 
chopped  fine,  with  foamy  omelet,  and  cook  as  directed.  Or 
when  omelet  is  cooked,  the  chopped  meat  may  be  spread  over 
before  folding.  A  little  chopped  parsley  may  be  added.  Oys- 
ters either  whole  or  chopped,  or  creamed  chicken,  stewed  or 
sliced  tomatoes,  asparagus  tips,  peas  or  jelly  may  be  used. 

BAKED  MEAT  OMELET 

Prepare  Foamy  Omelet  and  add  to  it  the  chopped  meat. 
Put  it  into  a  buttered  pudding-dish,  set  it  in  a  pan  of  hot 
water  and  bake  until  firm. 

BREAD    OMELET,    164   CALORIES 

2  tablespoons  bread  crumbs.  Speck  pepper. 

2  tablespoons  milk.  1  egg. 

Speck  salt.  1  teaspoon  butter. 

Soak  bread  crumbs  in  the  cold  milk  for  ten  minutes,  add 
the  salt  and  pepper.  Separate  egg  and  beat  until  light.  Add 
the  crumbs  and  milk  to  the  yolk  and  fold  in  the  white.  Fol- 
low general  directions  as  for  Foamy  Omelet. 

POACHED  OR  DROPPED  EGGS 

Toast  a  square  or  round  piece  of  bread  and  four  toast 
points;  put  on  hot  plate  with  points  at  each  side  and  garnish 
with  a  sprig  of  parsley.  Have  a  shallow  pan  two-thirds  full 
of  boiling  salted  water,  allowing  one  teaspoon  salt  to  one  pint 
water.  Put  a  slightly  buttered  muffin  ring  on  a  buttered 
skimmer  in  the  water.  Break  an  egg  into  the  ring.  The 
water  should  cover  the  egg.  "When  there  is  a  film  on  top  and 
the  white  is  firm,  carefully  take  up  skimmer,  remove  ring, 
loosen  egg  with  a  knife  and  place  on  the  toast;  salt  slightly. 
The  toast  may  be  buttered  if  desired. 

EGG   POACHED   IN  MILK,   470   CALORIES 

1  egg.  Salt. 

iy2  teaspoons  butter.  2  tablespoons  grated  cheese. 

ya  cup  thin  cream. 

Melt  butter  in  top  of  double  boiler,  add  cream  and  when 
hot  drop  in  carefully  the  egg.     Cook  until  white  is  nearly 


EGGS  183 

firm,   add   salt  and   sprinkle  with   cheese.     Serve   on   toast. 
Cheese  may  be  omitted. 

CODDLED   OR  SCRAMBLED   EGGS,   180   CALORIES 

1  egg.  1  saltspoon  salt. 

y2  cup  milk.  Speck  pepper. 

I  teaspoon  butter. 

Beat  egg  in  top  of  double  boiler  until  light,  add  milk  and 
rest  of  ingredients  and  stir  over  boiling  water  until  it  thick- 
ens ;  allow  it  to  stand  a  few  minutes  without  stirring,  to  set. 
Serve  on  toast  or  hot  rice. 

EGG  SANDWICHES,   96   CALORIES 

1   hard-cooked  egg.  %  teaspoon  mustard. 

y4  teaspoon  salt.  3  drops  vinegar. 

Speck  paprika.  1  teaspoon  butter. 

Mince  the  egg  very  fine  with  a  silver  fork,  add  seasonings 
and  butter,  and  mix  thoroughly.  Butter  very  thin  slices  of 
bread,  spread  with  egg  mixture,  cover  it  with  watercress 
leaves,  or  bits  of  nasturtium  leaves,  or  lettuce.  Cover  with 
another  slice  of  bread,  and  cut  in  triangles  or  rounds.  Serve 
on  small  plate  and  doily. 

Xote. —  Minced  ham  may  be  added  to  egg  mixture. 

SHIRRED  EGGS 
Butter  an  egg  shirrer,  ramikins,  or  small  earthen  cups; 
put  one  egg  in  each  without  breaking  yolk;  dust  with  salt  and 
white  pepper,  put  in  pan  of  hot  water  and  cook  on  back  of 
range  or  in  a  moderate  oven  until  white  is  set.  If  baked, 
cover  with  a  buttered  paper  to  keep  from  browning. 

SHIRRED  EGGS  NO.  II 
Butter  small,  deep  earthen  dishes  and  line  with  fine  white 
bread  crumbs  moistened  to  a  paste,  and  seasoned  with  salt 
and  pepper.  Break  an  egg  in  each,  sprinkle  with  a  few  grains 
of  salt,  cover  with  more  paste  and  bake  in  a  pan  of  hot  water, 
placed  in  the  oven.  When  egg  is  set,  serve  with  two  table- 
spoons of  tomatoes  or  cream  sauce  poured  over  it,  and  garnish 
with  a  sprig  of  parsley. 


184  ANIMAL  FOODS 

FILLED  EGGS,  96  CALORIES 

1  hard-cooked  egg.  %  teaspoon  mustard. 

1  teaspoon  butter  or  Paprika. 

1  teaspoon  olive  oil.  Salt. 

Eemove  the  shell  and  cut  the  egg  in  halves  lengthwise. 
Take  out  the  yolk  carefully  without  breaking  the  white.  Kub 
the  yolk  to  a  smooth  paste,  adding  the  butter  or  oil  and  the 
seasonings,  and  mix  thoroughly.  A  small  quantity  of  finely 
chopped  ham,  tongue  or  chicken  may  be  added.  Fill  the 
whites  with  the  mixture  and  serve  on  lettuce,  or  in  a  bed  of 
parsley. 

EGG  DESSERTS 

See  "  Nutritious  Desserts  "  for  recipe.     Page  286. 

ALBUMINOUS  BEVERAGES 

See  "Albuminous  Beverages"  for  recipe.     Page  118. 

MILK  AND  MILK  PRODUCTS1 

Milk  is  the  only  substance  in  nature  designed  expressly  for 
the  nourishment  of  the  young  animal.  It  contains  all  the 
compounds  necessary  to  support  life,  in  remarkably  good  pro- 
portions and  in  very  assimilable  forms.  It  is  a  perfect  food 
for  infants,  and  is  specially  suited  to  the  needs  of  certain 
classes  of  invalids  and  sedentary  persons.  For  the  active 
adult  it  is  undesirable  as  the  sole  article  of  diet,  because  the 
proportion  of  water  is  so  high  that  large  quantities  have  to 
be  taken  to  supply  the  necessary  energy;  because  the  propor- 
tion of  protein  is  unnecessarily  high ;  and  because  it  furnishes 
no  indigestible  residues  to  supply  bulk  for  the  perfect  func- 
tioning of  the  intestines. 

Composition.  Milk  contains  the  five  food  principles,  the 
proportions  varying  somewhat  with  different  species,  and  also 
with  individuals  of  the  same  species.  Cow's  milk,  which  is 
most  extensively  used,  is  the  only  kind  which  will  be  con- 
sidered here.     Milk  has  a  specific  gravity  of  1.027  to  1.035. 

'For  further  information,  note  "The  Use  of  Milk  as  Food,"  Farmer's 
Bulletin  No.  363,   U.  S.  Dept.  of  Agriculture,   Washington*   D.  C. 


MILK  ASD  MILK  PRODUCTS  185 

The  chief  bulk  is  water,  which  averages  87  per  cent.  The 
solid  matter  is  made  up  of  proteins,  fats,  carbohydrates  and 
mineral  matter.  The  average  percentages  are  as  follows: 
Protein,  3.3  per  cent.;  fat,  4  per  cent.;  carbohydrates,  5  per 
cent ;  mineral  matter,  0.7  per  cent. 

The  principal  protein  is  casein,  a  compound  containing 
both  phosphorus  and  sulphur.  Casein  is  precipitated  (or 
coagulated)  by  the  addition  of  acid  or  in  neutral  solutions, 
by  rennet.  Milk  also  contains  lactalbumin,  arranging  about 
1/7  of  the  total  protein.  The  character  of  the  curd  depends 
largely  on  the  relative  proportions  of  casein  and  lactalbumin. 

The  fat  of  milk  varies  widely  in  amount.  It  is  found 
throughout  the  milk  in  globules,  i.  e.,  as  an  emulsion.  On 
standing,  the  fat  rises  to  the  top  and  forms  cream  chemically. 
Several  fats  are  present,  chiefly  stearin,  palmitin  and  olein, 
with  smaller  amounts  of  others,  which  give  the  characteristic 
flavor  to  butter.  The  chief  carbohydrate  is  lactose  or  milk 
sugar.  This  remains  in  the  whey  when  the  casein  and  fat 
are  removed. 

The  ash  constituents  are  mainly  phosphates  and  chlorides 
of  calcium,  sodium  and  potassium. 

Digestibility.  While  milk  is  taken  as  a  liquid,  it  should 
really  be  regarded  as  a  solid  food,  for  in  the  stomach  it  is 
coagulated  by  the  aetion  of  the  enzyme  rennin  in  the  gastric 
juice.  If  the  milk  is  swallowed  hastily,  a  large,  tenacious 
curd  may  form,  which  will  remain  long  in  the  stomach,  and 
the  milk  will  be  regarded  as  difficult  of  digestion.  If  the 
milk  is  sipped  slowly  —  or  eaten  with  a  spoon  —  the  curds  will 
be  small,  and  hence  readily  acted  on  by  the  gastric  juice. 
For  this  reason,  the  combination  of  milk  with  another  food 
material,  as  bread  or  cereal  gruel,  may  render  it  more  easily 
digestible.  Many  persons  think  that  they  cannot  digest  milk. 
This  is  seldom  true,  if  the  above  precautions  are  taken. 

Nutritive  Value.  Milk  is  a  high  protein  food.  In  infancy 
it  therefore  furnishes  the  nitrogen  necessary  for  the  forma- 
tion of  new  protoplasm.  Throughout  the  growing  period,  it 
furnishes  the  most  valuable  source  of  protein,  as  it  is  non- 


186  ANIMAL  FOODS 

stimulating,  and  less  liable  to  putrefaction  in  the  alimentary 
tract  than  meat  proteins.  Given  a  quart  of  milk  and  an  egg 
each  day,  a  child  under  eight  years  of  age  on  a  suitable  diet 
of  proper  fuel  value,  will  have  sufficient  protein  for  all  body 
needs. 

The  fat  of  milk,  being  in  an  emulsified  form,  is  more 
readily  digested  than  the  fat  of  meats  and  other  similar  foods. 
The  carbohydrates  of  milk  require  only  transformation  to 
simple  sugars  by  the  intestinal  enzyme  lactase,  to  be  per- 
fectly utilized.  Often  the  energy  value  of  milk  is  increased 
for  infants  and  invalids,  by  addition  of  this  soluble,  mild- 
flavored  compound. 

The  ash  of  milk  contains  the  elements  required  for  the 
bony  tissues  in  particularly  assimilable  forms.  It  is  lack- 
ing in  iron,  so  that  this  element  must  be  supplied  by  other 
foods  (as  yolk  of  egg)  when  milk  is  the  chief  source  of  nutri- 
ment. 

The  value  of  milk  as  a  food  is  not  appreciated  by  many 
people.  It  is  frequently  regarded  as  a  beverage  rather  than 
nutriment,  while  in  fact  a  quart  of  milk  is  equivalent  in  food 
value  to  half  a  loaf  of  bread  (six  ounces)  or  three-quarters  of 
a  pound  of  lean  beef.  It  contains  as  much  protein  as  one- 
third  of  a  pound  of  lean  beef,  at  approximately  the  same 
price,  and  in  addition  about  as  much  fat  as  is  daily  con- 
sumed at  the  table  in  the  form  of  butter,  over  one  and  one-half 
ounces  of  milk  sugar,  and  valuable  mineral  salts.  Compared 
with  other  animal  foods  milk  is  a  cheap  food,  even  at  10  or  12 
cents  per  quart,  and  should  enter  freely  into  the  dietary.  It 
need  not  be  used  as  a  beverage  if  disliked,  but  can  be  combined 
with  other  materials  in  soups,  sauces  for  vegetable,  custards 
and  the  like,  or  used  in  cooking  cereals,  in  place  of  water. 

The  value  of  skim  milk  as  a  food  also  needs  to  be  empha- 
sized. It  has  lost  most  of  the  fat  in  the  skimming  processes, 
but  is  correspondingly  richer  than  whole  milk  in  protein, 
carbohydrates  and  ash.  It  is  not  as  rich  in  flavor  as  whole 
milk,  but  used  in  combination  with  other  foods  it  forms  a 
very  inexpensive  source  of  valuable  nutriment,  two  and  one- 


MILK  AXD  MILK  PRODUCTS  187 

half  quarts  of  skim  milk  will  yield  as  much  protein  as  a 
pound  of  lean  round  steak,  at  less  than  one-fourth  the  cost. 

Care  of  milk.  The  importance  of  keeping  milk  clean  can- 
not be  over-emphasized.  Aside  from  all  esthetic  considera- 
tions, absolute  cleanliness  is  essential  as  a  protection  to 
health.  Milk  is  an  excellent  culture  medium  for  bacteria,  and 
these  organisms  may  not  only  be  of  types  producing  changes 
in  the  character  of  the  milk,  such  as  alterations  in  flavor, 
odor,  color,  decomposition  of  proteins,  formation  of  gases, 
alcohol,  lactic  acid,  etc.,  but  also  disease  germs,  especially 
those  of  tuberculosis,  scarlet  fever,  typhoid  fever,  and  diph- 
theria. 

Commercially,  care  of  milk  13  important  as  effecting  the 
keeping  qualities.  For  all  these  reasons,  milk  should  come 
from  a  healthy  animal  in  a  sanitary  environment.  Milking 
must  be  done  under  conditions  which  protect  the  milk  as 
fully  as  possible  from  contamination  through  impurities  on 
the  cow  herself,  on  the  hands  or  clothing  of  the  milker,  in 
the  receptacles  used  for  the  milk,  and  in  the  air,  in  the  place 
where  the  milking  is  done.  Milk  should  be  immediately 
cooled,  and  transported  to  the  consumer  in  sealed  bottles; 
cooling  prevents  the  growth  of  bacteria.  Such  cautions 
necessarily  increase  the  price  of  milk,  but  even  then  milk  is 
a  cheap  food  and  the  additional  security  is  worth  paying 
for. 

Certification  of  Milk.  To  insure  a  milk  free  from  im- 
purities, the  method  of  certification  and  pasteurization  have 
been  widely  adopted. 

Certification  involves  a  specific  testing  of  milk  against  all 
accidental  and  harmful  contamination.  To  secure  it  the 
services  of  chemists,  bacteriologists  and  veterinary  surgeons 
are  required.  The  most  vital  object  desired  is  the  exclusion 
of  tubercule  bacilli  from  milk,  which  involves  a  special  in- 
spection of  dairy  herds  and  rejection  of  tuberculous  cows. 
Other  pernicious  germs,  pus  corpuscles,  etc.,  are  also  sought 
for. 

Certification    of    milk    requires    periodical    inspection    of 


188  ANIMAL  FOODS 

dairies,  of  bottled  milk  bought  in  open  market,  etc.  All  milk 
must  correspond  to  a  number  and  variety  of  tests,  too  numer- 
ous to  be  mentioned  in  this  connection.  Every  branch  of 
the  milk  trade  is  covered.  Such  milk  receives  a  certificate 
which  should  contain  the  date  of  milking  and  is  naturally  ex- 
pensive, but  it  should  be  used  whenever  possible  for  infants 
and  little  children,  and  for  all  purposes  in  households  which 
buy  the  best  grades  of  other  food  materials. 

Pasteurization.  This  is  the  process  by  which  milk  is  ren- 
dered more  or  less  sterile  through  destruction  of  active  bac- 
teria by  heat.  Various  standards  as  to  temperature  and 
time  have  been  adopted,  but  in  general  the  milk  is  heated 
to  a  temperature  not  exceeding  145°  F.,  for  a  period  of  20  to 
.30  minutes,  and  then  rapidly  cooled  to  45°  F.  or  lower. 
Most  harmful  bacteria  and  lactic  acid  bacteria  are  killed. 
Spores  are  not  killed,  and  if  the  milk  is  not  kept  cold  or  is 
allowed  to  stand  too  long,  putrefactive  organisms  develop. 
These  putrefactive  changes  are  very  undesirable,  so  that  the 
care  of  pasteurized  milk  is  just  as  important  as  that  of  fresh 
milk.  If  carelessly  handled,  the  fact  that  it  does  not  sour 
readily  is  a  menace  to  health  rather  than  a  benefit. 

Commercial  pasteurization  is  a  cheap  and  effective  means  of 
preventing  the  spread  of  ordinary  infectious  diseases.  The 
degree  of  heat  specified  does  not  change  materially  the  flavor 
nor  the  chemical  composition  of  the  milk.  It  does  destroy  the 
enzymes  naturally  present  in  milk,  and  how  much  this  affects 
the  value  of  milk  for  infants  is  still  unsettled.  When  clean 
fresh  milk  cannot  be  absolutely  insured,  it  is  safer  to  pas- 
teurize. But  this  process  cannot  make  bad  milk  good  nor 
dirty  milk  clean.  If  bacteria  have  already  produced  poison- 
ous products  it  will  not  destroy  them. 

Sterilization.  Sterilization  is  accomplished  by  keeping 
milk  at  boiling  temperature  (212°  F.)  for  10  or  more  minutes, 
preferably  in  the  vessel  in  which  it  is  to  remain.  This  will 
kill  all  living  bacteria,  but  will  not  destroy  spores.  Hence 
to  render  milk  absolutely  sterile,  repetition  of  the  process  on 
successive   days   is   necessary.     This   is   rarely   done,   as   the 


MILK  AND  MILK  PRODUCTS  189 

spores  are  not  likely   to   develop  if  the  milk   is  kept   at    a 
temperature  of  40°  F.  or  less. 

Sterilized  milk  is  not  an  ideal  food.  Boiling  changes  the 
taste,  and  the  cream  does  not  rise  as  quickly;  Lecithin  is  de- 
composed, diminishing  the  amount  of  organic  phosphorus 
compounds,  and  increasing  the  inorganic  phosphorus  which  is 
not  generally  considered  as  useful  to  the  body.  It  is  less 
easily  coagulated  by  the  action  of  rennet,  since  the  calcium 
salts  arc  changed.  The  ferments  of  the  milk  are  also  de- 
stroyed. Sterilization  should  be  regarded  as  an  emergency 
measure,  for  hot  weather,  when  cooling  facilities  are  lacking. 

MILK  PRODUCTS 

Butter.  Butter  consists  almost  entirely  of  separated  milk 
fat.  Churning  causes  the  fat  globules  to  unite  into  a  solid 
mass.  The  cream  is  first  allowed  to  ripen  for  some  hours. 
This  process  gives  the  characteristic  taste  and  odor,  which  is 
due  to  action  of  bacteria.  When  kept,  butter  tends  to  turn 
rancid,  owing  to  the  fermentation  of  a  small  quantity  of  casein 
present.  Salt  is  added  largely  to  prevent  this  change.  But- 
ter is  very  palatable,  and  one  of  the  most  digestible  forms 
of  fat. 

Cheese.  Cheese  is  made  from  full  milk,  skim  milk  or 
cream.  It  consists  of  the  casein  of  the  milk  and  more  or 
less  of  the  fat  and  mineral  matters.  The  flavor  is  due  to  the 
action  of  enzymes  in  molds  or  bacteria.  Cheese  is  a  very 
concentrated  nutritious  food,  and  very  thoroughly  assimilated. 
It  is  not  usually  well  borne  by  invalids  and  convalescents, 
however. 

( n  am.  Cream  is  the  fatty  layer  which  forms  at  the  top 
of  milk  which  is  allowed  to  stand  undisturbed.  It  contains 
the  fat  of  the  milk,  water,  some  protein,  carbohydrates  and 
mineral  matter.  The  percentage  of  fat  is  exceedingly  vari- 
able, ranging  from  about  16  per  cent,  to  40  per  cent.  The 
cream  which  rises  on  milk  after  24  hours  is  called  gravity 
cream  and  contains  aboul  L6  per  cent.  fat.  The  richer  creams 
are  obtained  by  centrifngalizing  the  milk.     Cream  in  large 


190  ANIMAL  FOODS 

quantities  is  less  easily  digested  than  an  equal  amount  of 
whole  milk  because  of  the  large  amount  of  fat,  but  this  form 
of  fat  is  easily  digested  compared  with  other  food  fats,  and 
hence  is  often  ordered  by  physicians. 

Curds.  When  milk  sours,  owing  to  the  formation  of 
lactic  acid  by  the  action  of  lactic  acid  bacteria  upon  the 
sugar,  or  when  the  enzyme  rennet  is  added  to  fresh  milk  at 
body  temperature,  and  the  clot  is  stirred,  the  curds  separate 
from  the  whey. 

Curds  consist  of  coagulated  casein,  which  commonly  car- 
ries with  it  the  fat ;  gentle  heat  facilities  this  separation,  but 
a  high  temperature  renders  the  curd  tough  and  indigestible; 
with  or  without  the  addition  of  cream,  curds  are  used  as 
cottage  cheese.     It  is  a  very  cheap,  nutritious  food. 

Junket.  If  sweet  milk  is  allowed  to  stand  undisturbed 
after  the  addition  of  rennet,  the  thickened,  custard-like  mass 
is  called  junket.  This  is  a  valuable  method  of  using  milk, 
especially  for  invalids,  children,  and  those  wjio  from  personal 
idiosyncrasy  cannot  drink  milk. 

Whey.  This  substance  may  be  either  sweet  when  formed 
by  junket  or  sour  when  otherwise  produced.  It  contains 
most  of  the  lactose,  lactalbumin  and  ash  constituents  of  the 
milk,  but  has  so  little  nutritive  value,  owing  to  the  removal  of 
the  milk  fat  and  casein,  that  it  may  be  regarded  as  a  beverage. 
See  page  185. 

Sour  Milk.  When  whole  milk  sours,  with  the  formation 
of  "  curds  and  whey,"  the  entire  product  is  known  as  clabber 
or  bonny-clabber.  It  is  wholesome,  and  nutritious,  since  it 
contains  all  the  ingredients  naturally  present  in  milk.  By 
some  it  is  used  as  a  beverage.  When  not  so  relished,  it  can  be 
used  to  good  advantage  in  cooking,  adding  its  nutritive  value 
to  any  dish  in  which  it  is  incorporated. 

Buttermilk.  True  buttermilk,  which  is  common  on  farms, 
is  seldom  found  in  commerce.  Unless  produced  where  sold, 
its  genuineness  may  be  a  matter  of  question.  Those  who  are 
familiar  with  the  genuine  article  state  that  the  delicacy  of 
its  flavor,  its  consistency,  etc.,  are  much  superior  to  the  so- 


MILK  AND  MILK  PRODUCTS  191 

called  buttermilk  of  commerce.  The  composition  of  the  two 
articles  is  practically  the  same.  When  skim  milk,  the  cream 
having  been  removed  by  the  separator,  is  allowed  to  sour,  it 
is  said  to  resemble  ordinary  buttermilk,  and  the  fluid  which 
goes  by  the  latter  name,  sold  extensively  throughout  Greater 
Xew  York,  is  said  to  be  sour  skim  milk. 

Metschnickoff  Artificially  Soured  Milk.  The  announce- 
ment some  years  ago  by  Metschnickoff  that  the  foregoing 
products  were  of  very  great  hygienic  and  therapeutic  value  in 
disinfecting  the  intestines  has  resulted  in  the  wholesale  pro- 
duction of  a  substance  which  differs  from  ordinary  sour 
milk  in  that  it  is  prepared  from  a  pure  culture  of  lactic- 
acid  germs.  This  product  is  doubtless  destined  to  replace 
the  older  ones  on  account  of  its  freedom  from  undesirable 
forms  of  bacteria.  The  technique  for  preparing  it,  devised 
originally  by  Metschnickoff  himself,  also  places  it  in  a  higher 
class  than  the  older  preparations.  The  pure  culture  is  sold 
in  the  solid  form  as  Buttermilk  Tablets. 

Fermented  Milk.  Milk  which  has  been  fermented  is  really 
a  derivative  of  native  milk,  and  in  parts  of  Europe  and  Asia 
constitutes  an  important  article  of  diet.  The  fermentation 
is  either  the  lactic  alone  or  lactic  and  alcoholic  together. 

The  ferments  used  consist  chiefly  of  various  "  leavens " 
or  cultures  which  cause  lactic  acid  fermentation.  People  who 
have  subsisted  on  this  milk  for  centuries  simply  use  a  por- 
tion of  old  fermented  milk  to  leaven  fresh  milk.  These 
leavens  vary  considerably  in  composition,  and  the  milk  used 
may  be  from  one  of  several  domestic  animals.  Some  leavens 
contain  yeast  germs,  as  that  alcohol  may  or  may  not  be 
present.  The  native  preparations  which  have  been  imitated 
in  this  country  are  kumyss,  kefir  and  matzoon. 

Kumyss  was  prepared  originally  from  mares'  milk.  The 
leaven  contains  lactic  acid  germs  and  yeast.  The  product 
therefore  contains  lactic  acid,  alcohol,  and  carbonic  acid 
gas,  representing  an  acid,  effervescing,  mildly  alcoholic  bev- 
erage. The  casein  curd  is  finely  broken  up  and  partially 
digested.     Kumyss  has  been  imitated  in  America  by  adding 


192  ANIMAL  FOODS 

yeast  to  milk  and  allowing  fermentation  to  proceed  twenty- 
four  hours  or  over. 

Kefir  was  made  originally  from  cows'  milk  with  a  leaven 
of  kumyss.  This  has  been  sold  in  tablet  form  like  the  ren- 
net ferment.  Kefir  resembles  kumyss  so  closely  that  no 
further  description  is  necessary. 

Matzoon  differs  from  the  preceding  chiefly  in  containing 
no  alcohol. 

Modified  Milk  is  milk  containing  definite  proportions  of 
fat,  sugar,  proteids,  etc.,  put  up  usually  according  to  the 
formula  of  a  physician,  who  prescribes  the  quantity  of  the 
different  constituents  he  desires. 

For  sick  children  and  in  convalescence  it  is  of  great  value 
to  obtain  a  modification  in  which  the  composition  is  definite 
and  accurate.  It  can  then  be  known  what  mixtures  will  agree 
with  the  patient. 

Malted  Milk  is  a  pure  food  prepared  from  rich  full-cream 
milk,  combined  with  the  valuable  nutritive  extracts  of  malted 
barley  and  wheat.  This  product  being  highly  concentrated 
and  partially  predigested,  supplies  a  large  amount  of  nutrition 
with  little  tax  upon  the  digestive  organs.  It  is  a  valuable 
nutrient  in  dyspepsia  or  impaired  digestion,  for  fever  and 
wasting  diseases,  the  convalescent,  nursing  mothers,  and  the 
aged. 

Peptonized  Milk  is  milk  in  which  the  casein  or  curd  has 
been  made  soluble  and  diffusible  by  means  of  the  Peptonising 
Tubes.  In  these  Peptonising  Tubes,  extractum  pancreatis, 
containing  the  pancreatic  ferment  which  acts  especially  upon 
the  proteins  of  milk,  is  combined  with  soda  bicarbonate  in 
due  proportion,  and  each  tube  contains  sufficient  peptonising 
powder  to  peptonise  a  pint  of  milk.  Milk  may  be  peptonised 
by  various  methods  —  by  the  "  cold  process,"  "  immediate 
process,"  "  warm  process,"  etc.  The  method  and  degree  of 
peptonisation  suitable  for  any  special  case  is  soon  determined 
by  experience,  by  the  agreeability  of  the  milk  and  its  digesti- 
bility. 

Condensed  Milk.     Preservation   of   milk   by   condensation 


MILK  AND  MILK  PRODUCTS  193 

constitutes  a  very  extensive  commercial  industry.  There  are 
several  processes  in  vogue,  and  the  product  is  either  sweet- 
ened or  unsweetened.  Ordinary  unsweetened  milk  contains 
about  12  per  cent,  each  of  protein  and  fat  and  16  per  cent. 
of  the  native  milk  sugar,  making  the  total  solids  40  per  cent. 
Cane  sugar  may  be  added  to  the  amount  of  about  40  per  cent. 
more,  making  the  total  solids  80  per  cent.  Milk  may  also 
be  i  ondensed  by  forcing  filtered  air  through  it,  until  its  vol- 
ume is  reduced  to  one-fourth  the  original  amount.  This 
product  is  sold  in  sterile  bottles.  Condensed  milk  is  very 
generally  used  as  a  substitute  for  fresh  milk.  It  is  especially 
valuable  in  tropical  regions  and  on  ocean  voyages.  It  is 
important  that  condensed  milk  be  made  from  clean  milk,  and 
kept  free  from  bacteria  contamination.  The  unsweetened 
brands  are  especially  liable  to  putrefaction,  and  should  be 
cared  for,  when  opened,  like  fresh  milk. 

Evaporated  Milk  is  made  of  pure  milk,  fresh  from  the. 
cow,  nothing  taken  from  it  to  lessen  its  nourishing  qualities 
and  nothing  added.  It  is  sterilized  by  the  application  of  a 
higher  degree  of  heat  than  is  used  in  ordinary  pasteurization, 

ENERGY  VALUE  OF  MILK 

1  cup  of  whole  milk =  169  Calories. 

1   cup  skimmed  milk    =    89  Calories. 

1  cup  cream    ( 18% )    =  440  Calories. 

1   cup   cream    (40%)     =  8G4  Calories. 

PASTEURIZATION 

Methods  of  Preparing.  Put  bottle  into  kettle  of  cold 
water  and  slowly  bring  to  the  boiling  point.  Boil  ten  minutes. 
After  which  fill  immediately  nearly  full  with  milk;  cork  with 
absorbent  cotton  which  has  been  baked  in  the  oven  until  a 
delicate  brown.  Place  bottles  on  a  rest  in  a  deep  pan  so  that 
they  will  not  touch  bottom,  and  fill  the  pan  with  cold  water  to 
reach  as  high  as  the  milk  in  bottles.  Heat  water  gradually  to 
1  T)  degrees  Fahrenheit,  or  until  small  bubbles  appear  in 
the  milk  next  to  the  glass.  Remove  to  back  of  stove  and  keep 
milk   at   same   temperature    20    to    30    minutes;    then    cool 


194  ANIMAL  FOODS 

quickly  to  45  degrees  or  lower.  To  cool  rapidly  put  bottles 
first  into  lukewarm  water  and  then  cold  water  until  milk  is 
cold,  then  surround  with  ice  water.  Keep  in  cold  place  and 
do  not  remove  stoppers  until  ready  to  use.  Note  Pasteuriza- 
tion, page  188. 

Utensils.  A  convenient  form  of  apparatus  for  pasteuriza- 
tion can  be  purchased  or  a  covered  tin  pail  answers  well  for 
the  larger  vessel,  and  an  inverted  pie  pan  with  perforated 
bottom  can  serve  as  the  false  bottom.  A  hole  may  be  punched 
in  the  cover  of  the  pail,  a  cork  inserted  and  a  chemical 
thermometer  put  through  the  cork  so  that  the  bulb  dips  in 
the  water,  thus  enabling  one  to  watch  the  temperature  closely 
without  removing  the  cover,  or  an  ordinary  dairy  ther- 
mometer may  be  used  from  time  to  time  by  removing 
the  lid. 

STERILIZATION 

The  utensils  and  methods  to  sterilize  milk  are  the  same  as 
for  pasteurizing,  except  that  the  water  is  heated  to  the  boil- 
ing point  (212°  F.)  and  the  time  for  boiling  is  ten  or  more 
minutes.     Note  Sterilization,  page  188. 

EVAPORATED  MILK 

It  is  sometimes  of  advantage,  as  in  cases  of  dilated  stom- 
ach or  whenever  the  total  amount  of  fluids  must  be  cut  down 
to  a  given  point,  to  heat  the  milk  in  a  pan  over  which  is 
placed  an  inverted  funnel.  Much  of  the  water  of  the  milk 
passes  off  as  vapor,  while  the  solids  remain  in  the  pan. 

BAKED  MILK 

Into  a  stone  jar  put  one-half  gallon  of  sweet  milk;  cover 
with  writing  paper  and  tie  it  on.  Bake  in  moderate  oven 
nine  to  ten  hours.     It  will  be  the  consistency  of  thick  cream. 

MALTED  MILK,  59  CALORIES 

Mix  one  tablespoon  of  Horlick's  Malted  Milk  powder  with 
a  little  tepid  water  to  make  a  smooth  paste ;  add  three-fourths 
cup  water,  hot  or  cold,  stirring  briskly  and  serve. 


MILK  AXD  MILK  PRODUCTS  195 

Xote. —  May  be  prepared  with  hot  milk  instead  of  water 
and  a  little  cream  added  if  desired. 

PEPTONISED  MILK,  338  CALORIES 
Warm  Process 

Put  one-half  cup  (gill)  of  cold  water  and  the  powder  con- 
tained in  one  of  the  Peptonising  Tubes  (Fairchild)  into  a 
clean  quart  bottle  and  shake  thoroughly;  add  a  pint  of  cold 
fresh  milk  and  shake  again;  then  place  the  bottle  in  a  pail 
or  kettle  of  warm  water  —  about  115°  F.,  or  not  too  hot  to 
immerse  the  whole  hand  in  it  without  discomfort.  Keep 
the  bottle  in  the  water  bath  for  five  or  ten  minutes,  or  longer 
if  it  is  desired  to  peptonise  the  milk  quite  completely,  then 
put  it  immediately  on  ice  —  directly  in  contact  with  the  ice 
—  in  order  to  check  the  process  of  digestion  and  keep  the  milk 
from  spoiling. 

The  degree  of  peptonisation  is  very  simply  regulated  in 
this  process  by  the  length  of  time  during  which  the  milk  is 
kept  in  the  water  bath.  It  is  seldom  necessary  to  peptonise 
milk  until  it  becomes  bitter. 

PARTIALLY  PEPTONISED  MILK,  338  CALORIES 

Put  one-half  cup  (gill)  of  cold  water  and  the  powder  con- 
tained in  one  of  the  Peptonising  Tubes  (Fairchild)  into  a 
clean  saucepan,  and  stir  well;  add  a  pint  of  cold  fresh  milk, 
and  heat,  with  constant  stirring,  to  boiling  point.  The  heat 
should  be  so  applied  that  the  milk  will  come  to  a  boil  in  ten 
minutes.  Let  it  cool  to  about  lukewarm,  then  strain  into  a 
clean  bottle  or  glass  jar,  cork  tightly  and  keep  in  a  cold 
place.  The  bottle  or  jar  should  always  be  well  shaken  before 
and  after  pouring  out  a  portion.  The  milk  may  be  taken 
cold  or  hot  as  the  physician  may  direct. 

"Partially  peptonised  milk"  if  properly  }>r<'/><!rr,l  will  not 
become  bitter. 

PEPTONISED  MILK.  338  CALORIES 
Cold  Process 

Put  one-half  cup  (gill)  of  cold  water  into  a  clean  quart 
bottle  and  dissolve  in  it  by  Bhaking  thoroughly  the  powder 


196  ANIMAL  FOODS 

contained  in  one  of  the  Peptonising  Tubes  (Fairchild)  ;  add 
a  pint  of  cold  fresh  milk,  shake  the  bottle  again,  and  im- 
mediately place  it  on  ice  —  directly  in  contact  with  the  ice. 

The  bottle  should  always  be  well  shaken  before  and  after 
pouring  out  a  portion. 

Peptonised  milk  prepared  by  this  recipe  is  especially  ap- 
preciated by  patients  who  dislike  the  taste  of  warmed  or 
boiled  milk,  and  ordinarily  it  is  readily  digested  and  assimi- 
lated. 

PEPTONISED   MILK 
Immediate    Process 

Put  two  tablespoons  (1  oz.)  of  cold  water  into  a  goblet 
or  glass;  dissolve  in  this  one-quarter  of  the  contents  of  a 
Peptonising  Tube  (Fairchild)  ;  add  eight  tablespoonfuls 
(4  ozs.)  of  warm  milk  —  not  boiling;  drink  immediately, 
sipping  slowly;  85  calories. 

To  prepare  half  a  pint  of  milk,  use  half  the  contents  of  a 

Peptonising  Tube,  4  tablespoonfuls  of  water,  a  half  pint  of 

milk;  169  calories. 

SPECIALLY  PEPTONISED  MILK,  338  CALORIES 

For  Making  Milk  Jelly,  Milk  Punch,  Milk  Lemonade,  and  for  Use 
with  Fruit  Juices  or  Acids 

Peptonise  a  pint  of  milk  by  the  "  Warm  Process,"  keep- 
ing the  bottle  in  the  water  bath  for  one  hour;  pour  the  pep- 
tonised milk  into  a  saucepan  and  heat  to  boiling,  when  it  is 
ready  for  use  if  it  is  required  hot ;  or  it  may  be  put  on  ice,  in 
a  bottle  or  any  suitable  container,  to  be  used  for  punches, 
lemonade,  etc. 

It  is  necessary  to  peptonise  the  milk  quite  completely  — 
for  one  hour  —  so  that  it  will  not  curdle  when  mixed  with 
lemon  juice  or  acid.  The  bitter  taste  of  this  "  specially 
peptonised  milk  "  is  not  evident  in  the  jellies,  punches,  etc., 
and  these  foods  are  very  agreeable  and  exceedingly  assimil- 
able. 

EFFERVESCENT  PEPTONISED  MILK 

Into  a  glass  put  some  finely  cracked  ice  and  fill  it  half- 
full  of  vichy,  White  Rock  or  siphon  water,  add  immediately 


MILK  AND  MILK  PRODUCTS  197 

peptoniscd  milk  prepared  by  any  of  the  prescribed  methods 
and  drink  while  effervescing.  Brandy  or  other  spirits  may  be 
added  if  desired. 

THICKENED  MILK 

See  Flour  Gruel.     Page  239. 

RICE   MILK,   458   CALORIES 
1   ounce  rice.  1  saltspoon  salt. 

1  pint  scalded  milk.  1  teaspoon  sugar. 

Soak  rice  twelve  hours,  strain  and  add  the  scalded  milk, 
salt  and  sugar.  Stir  well  and  cook  slowly  one  hour.  Eub 
through  a  line  sieve  (thin  with  more  hot  milk  if  desired). 
Taste  and  add  more  seasoning  if  necessary.  Sago  or  tapioca 
may  be  used  in  the  same  way. 

RUM  AND  MILK,  186  CALORIES 
up  milk.  \x/z   teaspoon  sugar. 

',    tablespoon  rum  or  brandy. 

Dae    fresh   or  pasteurized  milk.     Put  ingredients   into   a 
lemonade  shaker  or  fruit  jar  (using  rubber  band  and  cover)  ; 
well   and   shake  until   frothy.     Serve   in  glass   three- 
fourths  filled. 

SHERRY  OR  BRANDY  AND  MILK,   173  CALORIES 
%   cup   fre>h   milk.  %  teaspoon  sugar. 

tablespoon  brandy  or  Nutmeg. 

1  .  wineglass  of  sherry. 

Blend  as  for  "  Rum  and  Milk."  Fill  glass  three-fourths 
full  and  add  a  grating  of  nutmeg  on  top. 

CINNAMON  AND  MILK.   132   CALORIES  I 
up  new  milk.  Sugar. 

Stick  cinnamon.  y3  teaspoon  brandy. 

Boil  milk,  with  sufficient  cinnamon  to  flavor  pleasantly, 
and  sweeten.  This  may  be  taken  cold  with  the  brandy. 
Very  jrood  in  cases  of  diarrhoea.  Children  may  take  it  warm 
without  brandy. 

1  "Without    sugar. 


198  ANIMAL  FOODS 

WHEY 

6V2  ounces  whey  =  50  Calories. 
1  cup  fresh  milk.  1  teaspoon  cold  water. 

}4  Hansen's  Junket  Tablet. 

Heat  the  milk  until  lukewarm;  add  the  tablet,  dissolved 
in  the  cold  water.  Allow  it  to  jelly  in  a  warm  place.  Then 
break  up  the  curd  and  strain  through  two  thicknesses  of 
cheese-cloth,  being  careful  to  remove  all  the  casein.  Serve 
cold,  with  or  without  sweetening,  and  flavor  as  desired. 

LIQUID   PEPT0N0IDS   AND   WHEY 

Place  one  tablespoonful  of  finely  cracked  ice  in  a  small  tea- 
cup. Pour  over  it  one  tablespoonful  of  Liquid  Peptonoids; 
stir,  fill  the  cup  with  whey  and  drink  slowly. 

ACID   PHOSPHATE   WHEY 

See  "Acid  Beverages"  for  recipe.     Page  113. 

LEMON  WHEY 

See  "  Acid  Beverages  "  for  recipe.     Page  113. 
WINE  WHEY 

See  "  Acid  Beverages  "  for  recipe.     Page  113. 

PAN0PEPT0N  WITH  WHEY 

Put  into  a  small  teacup  one  or  two  teaspoonfuls  of  clean 
crushed  ice;  add  one  tablespoonful  of  Panopepton,  stir,  then 
fill  the  cup  with  whey.  Drink  slowly.  This  is  very  refresh- 
ing and  nourishing  —  an  admirable  liquid  food  for  fever 
patients  and  convalescents. 

KTJMYSS,  328   CALORIES 

J  cake  Fleischmann's  yeast.  1  tablespoon  water. 

\y2  tablespoons  sugar.  1  quart  milk. 

Make  a  thin  syrup  of  the  sugar  and  water  and  cook  one 
minute.  Soften  the  yeast  in  two  tablespoons  of  lukewarm 
milk.  Heat  the  milk  until  lukewarm,  add  other  ingredients 
and  shake.  Put  in  sterile  patent  beer  bottles,  place  in  up- 
right position  for  twelve  hours,  at  70  degrees  Fahrenheit 
(or  comfortably  warm   room)  ;   then  turn  on  side   at  heat 


MILK  AND  MILK  PRODUCTS  199 

50  degrees  Fahrenheit  (lower  part  of  ice-box).  Beady  for 
use  after  the  first  twenty-four  hours;  often  kept  several  days, 
but  the  longer  it  is  kept  the  less  palatable  it  is.  Do  not 
open  a  bottle  of  kuniyss  without  a  champagne  tap,  or  the 
cork  may  be  punctured  with  a  stout  needle  to  let  the  gas 
escape.     It  should  look  like  thick,  foamy  cream. 

Kumyss  is  especially  suited  for  many  forms  of  indigestion, 
nausea,  fever  and  gastric  trouble,  pulmonary  consumption  and 
other  wasting  disease. 

Dr.  Brush's  prepared  kumyss  is  recommended  on  account 
of  its  superiority  over  the  home-made  preparations,  as  the 
milk  supply  is  controlled,  and  the  method  of  preparing  is 
carried  out  upon  scientific  bases.  It  is  also  more  convenient, 
as  it  is  ready  for  immediate  use. 

MATZ00N  OE  ZOOLAK  (GERMAN  HOSPITAL,  NEW  YORX  CITY) 
1   pint  =  338  Calories. 

Take  forty-five  pints  of  milk,  boil  thoroughly.  Cream 
two  or  three  times;  that  is,  until  all  the  cream  is  removed. 
When  the  milk  is  still  quite  warm  add  two  (2)  bottles  of 
prepared  bottled  Zoolak.  Mix  thoroughly.  Bottle  quickly  in 
pint  bottles,  not  entirely  full.  Cork  tightly  immediately,  and 
put  in  a  warm  place  till  the  liquid  shows  creamy  through  the 
bottles.     Then  place  and  keep  in  a  cold  place. 

X.  B. —  If  chilled  before  it  is  thick  it  remains  thin  and 
the  flavor  is  spoiled.  If  not  kept  very  cold  after  it  is  made 
the  fermentation  is  carried  too  far. 

JUNKET,    169   CALORIES 
1  cup  fresh  milk.  1  teaspoon  cold  water. 

*4   Hansen's  Junket  Tablet. 

Heat  the  milk  until  lukewarm;  add  the  tablet  dissolved 
in  the  cold  water ;  allow  it  to  jelly  in  a  warm  place ;  chill  in 
ice-box;  serve  plain  or  in  the  various  ways  as  directed  in 
chapter  "  Nutritious  Desserts." 

ARTIFICIAL  OR  HOMEMADE  BUTTERMILK 
1  cup    (whole  milk  buttermilk)  =169  Calories. 
Pasteurize  fresh,  sweet  milk,  which  may  be  new,  or  partly 


200  ANIMAL  FOODS 

skimmed,  or  entirely  fat-free,  as  desired,  by  heating  it  to 
between  160  and  175  degrees  F,  and  holding  at  such  tem- 
perature for  at  least  20  minutes,  cool  to  100  degrees. 

Dissolve  one  Junket  Brand  Buttermilk  Tablet  in  a  table- 
spoon of  cold  milk  or  water  and  add  a  quart  or  less  of  the 
pasteurized  milk.  Leave  in  warm  room  until  thick,  24  to 
36  hours. 

When  milk  has  thickened,  place  in  refrigerator.  When 
cold,  "  Churn  "  by  shaking  the  bottle  vigorously  for  a  minute 
or  two.  Or  the  milk  may  be  prepared  in  a  fruit  jar,  a  bowl 
or  a  pitcher  and  beaten  with  an  egg  beater  until  smooth  and 
creamy. 

If  the  acid  flavor  is  too  mild,  let  stand  cold  another  day. 

If  desired,  the  milk  may  be  diluted  with  one-fourth  water. 
A  pinch  of  salt  may  be  added. 

Junket  Buttermilk  may  be  kept  on  ice  or  in  refrigerator 
for  a  week  or  longer. 

SWEETBREADS 

Among  epicures  sweetbreads  are  considered  a  dainty  and 
are  certainly  a  most  acceptable  food  for  the  sick,  as  they  are 
easily  digested,  but  they  must  not  be  used  to  excess  on  account 
of  the  large  amount  of  uric  acid  which  they  produce. 

Definition.  Sweetbreads  are  the  pancreas  and  thymus 
glands  of  the  calf,  the  word  being  used  for  either  one  or 
both  organs.  The  thymus  glands  are  removed  and  used  for 
food  while  the  animal  lives  on  milk.  The  pancreas  of  the 
calf  is  sometimes  called  stomach  sweetbread,  and  the  thymus 
gland  the  neck  or  throat  sweetbread.  The  latter  is  con- 
sidered somewhat  more  easily  digested  than  the  former. 

Digestibility.  It  is  an  error  to  state  that  sweetbreads  are 
more  digestible  because  they  contain  digestive  ferments  in 
life,  for  these  are  destroyed  by  cooking.  The  tenderness  of 
these  bodies  is  due  doubtless  to  the  delicate  character  of  the 
connective  tissue,  and  to  the  soft  character  of  the  gland  tis- 
sue itself,  which  is  rich  in  nucleo-protein.     The  presence  of 


SWEETBREADS  &01 

this  nuclein  is  objectionable  for  gouty  and  other  patients 
with  uric  acid  disorders,  but  this  is  no  contraindication  for 
an  occasional  use  of  them  by  invalids. 

ENERGY  VALUE  OF  SWEETBREADS 

100  grams    {3y2   oz.)    sweet  breads =  176  Caloric. 

1  pair  sweetbreads,  medium  size  (8  oz.)..  ~399  Calories. 
1  pair  sweetbreads,  medium  size   (8  oz.),  when  cooked,  freed  from 
membrane,    pipe,    etc.,    and    cut    into    cubes,    measures    three-fourths 
cup. 

TO   PREPARE    SWEETBREADS 
(To  Parboil.) 

Remove  from  paper  as  soon  as  received  from  market,  plunge 
into  cold  water  and  allow  to  stand  one  hour.  Drain.  Place 
immediately  in  boiling  water  salted  water  to  cover,  allowing 
one-half  tablespoon  each  of  salt  and  vinegar  to  a  pair  of 
sweetbreads.  Simmer  twenty  minutes;  again  drain  and 
plunge  into  cold  water  that  they  may  keep  white  and  firm. 
Free  from  membrane  fat  and  veins,  and  serve  as  desired. 

Sweetbreads  are  always  prepared  in  this  way  for  subse- 
quent cooking  and  are  spoken  of  as  parboiled. 

BROILED  SWEETBREADS 
Parboil  and  cut  in  halves  cross-wise.  Sprinkle  with  salt 
and  pepper,  place  on  a  greased  fine  wire  broiler,  and  broil 
five  minutes  over  a  clear  fire.  As  soon  as  sweetbread  is 
heated  brush  both  sides  with  a  little  melted  butter.  Serve 
with  creamed  butter  to  which  has  been  added  a  little  lemon 
juice  or  simply  spread  with  soft  butter. 

CREAMED    SWEETBREADS   NO.    I,    288   CALORIES 

(Individual  Rule.) 
y2  tablespoon  butter.  %  CUP  milk. 

y2  tablespoon  flour.  y3  cup  sweetbreads. 

Melt  the  butter,  add  flour  and  pour  on  gradually  the  scald- 
ing milk.  Cook  thoroughly  and  season.  Add  the  parboiled 
sweetbreads  cut  in  small  pieces,  reheat  and  serve  on  toast  and 
garnish  with  parsley. 


202  ANIMAL  FOODS 

Note. —  For  Scalloped  Sweetbreads  put  creamed  sweetbreads 
in  small  baking  dish ;  cover  with  cracker  crumbs  and  dot  with 
bits  of  butter;  bake  until  crumbs  are  a  golden  brown. 

CREAMED   SWEETBREADS  NO.  II,  968  CALORIES 

(Three  Servings.) 

1  cup  thin  cream  or  rich  milk.       %  teaspoon  salt. 

2  teaspoons  butter.  %  cup  sweetbreads. 
2  tablespoons  flour. 

Parboil  sweetbreads  and  cut  into  one-half  inch  cubes. 
Blend  flour  with  a  little  cold  milk  to  make  a  smooth  mixture ; 
scald  cream  in  double  boiler,  add  the  flour  mixture  and  cook 
thoroughly.  Just  before  serving  add  the  prepared  sweet- 
breads, salt  and  butter.  Serve  hot  on  toasted  rounds,  and 
garnish  with  parsley,  or  use  as  a  filling  for  Swedish  tim- 
bales. 

Note. —  May  use  equal  proportions  of  cold  cooked  chicken 
and  sweetbreads,  reheat  and  serve  in  the  cream  sauce. 

FRICASSEED   SWEETBREADS,  240  CALORIES  i 
(Three  Servings.) 
Parboil    and    cut    sweetbread    into    one-half    inch    pieces. 
Make  a  sauce  using: 

2  teaspoons  butter.  %  cup  hot  strong  chicken  broth. 

1  teaspoon  flour.  %  CUP  cream. 

y2  teaspoon  lemon  juice.  Salt  and  pepper. 

Melt  the  butter,  add  the  flour,  allow  it  to  simmer  until 
a  golden  brown,  then  add  the  hot  broth  gradually,  stirring 
constantly,  lastly  the  cream.  Season  with  salt,  pepper  and 
lemon  juice.  A  speck  of  curry  powder  may  be  added  if 
desired. 

Put  the  cut  sweetbread  into  the  sauce,  simmer  five  minutes 
and  serve  on  sippets  or  squares  of  dry  toast;  garnish  with 
parsley. 

SWEETBREADS  WITH  PEAS 
1  cup  of  canned  peas  =  100  Calories. 

Parboil  and  broil  sweetbreads,  arrange  in  center  of  plat- 
ter, and  serve  the  peas  (cooked  and  seasoned)   around  them. 

1  Calculated  without  the  sweetbreads. 


GEL  AT  IX  203 

Or  the  pen?  may  be  piled  in  center  of  platter  and  the  broiled 
sweetbreads  arranged  as  a  border.  A  cream  sauce  may  be 
poured  over  all;  for  it,  use  the  recipe  in  Creamed  Sweet- 
breads Xo.  I  or  II. 

GELATIN 

Source.  Gelatin  is  a  nitrogenous  food  classed  with  pro- 
teins, under  the  division  called  gelatinoids  or  albuminoids,  and 
derived  from  "  collagen/'  the  chief  constituent  of  connective 
tissue  with  its  various  modifications,  as  tendons,  "  chondri- 
gen "  of  cartilage,  or  the  "  ossein "  of  bone.  "  By  proper 
treatment,  any  form  of  connective  tissue  can  be  made  to  yield 
gelatin.  Hide  clippings  yield  glue,  a  crude  form  of  gelatin, 
and  much  commercial  gelatin  is  simply  a  purified  glue,  derived 
from  such  a  source.  Isinglass,  obtained  from  the  swimming 
bladder  of  the  sturgeon  and  other  fish,  is  the  purest  form  of 
gelatin ;  the  gelatin  obtained  from  calves'  feet  is  also  of  high 
quality."  x 

General  Principles  in  Cooking.  Gelatin  is  insoluble  in 
cold  water,  but  when  allowed  to  stand  in  it  will  swell  from 
absorption  of  water.  "  Gelatin  is  very  soluble  in  boiling 
water,  and  on  cooling  sets  into  a  jelly.  This  jellying  will 
occur  in  a  solution  containing  as  little  as  1  per  cent,  of 
gelatin." x  Gelatin  is  decomposed  by  boiling  and  conse- 
quently if  allowed  to  boil  will  not  solidify  on  cooling. 

Digestibility.  Gelatin  is  very  easily  digested  in  the  stom- 
ach, and  readily  absorbed  from  the  small  intestines. 

Nutritive  Value.  Although  gelatin  is  a  protein  food,  it 
cannot  alone  support  life.  Proteins  are  made  up  of  groups 
of  amino  acids,  most  of  which  it  seems  necessary  to  have 
represented  in  the  diet,  to  secure  complete  repair  of  the  waste 
of  nitrogenous  tissue.  In  gelatin  two  important  acids  are 
lacking;  hence  not  more  than  two-thirds  of  the  day's  nitrogen 
requirement  should  be  given  in  the  form  of  gelatin.     Because 

1  State  of  Connecticut.  Report  of  The  Connecticut  Agricultural  Experi- 
ment Station,  food  and  Drug  Products,  1909.  Being  Part  II  of  the 
Biennial  Report  of  1909-1910. 


204  ANIMAL  FOODS 

it  can  to  this  extent  take  the  place  of  other  proteins,  gelatin 
has  often  been  called  a  "  protein-sparer,"  rather  than  a  true 
protein.  In  the  ordinary  intake  of  animal  food,  not  more 
than  one-eighth  of  the  total  nitrogen  is  in  the  form  of  gelatin. 
It  is  usually  not  convenient  to  take  more  than  25  to  30 
grams  (about  1  ounce)  in  a  day.  Six  ounces  of  calf's  foot 
jelly  (which  would  be  a  large  helping)  contain  less  than  half 
an  ounce  of  gelatin.  Jellying  will  occur  in  a  solution  con- 
taining as  little  as  1  per  cent,  of  gelatin.  Gelatin  has  the 
advantage  (along  with  other  proteins)  of  fixing  a  good  deal 
of  acid  in  the  process  of  stomach  digestion  and  is  thus  of 
service  in  cases  of  hyperacidity  of  the  stomach,  when  given 
in  other  forms  than  acid  jellies.  It  seems  also  to  promote 
the  secretion  of  gastric  juice.  It  is  useful  in  febrile  states 
as  it  really  belongs  with  liquid  foods,  melting  as  it  does  at 
body  temperature. 

In  convalescence,  acid  jellies  (orange,  lemon,  etc.,)  are  of 
service  as  a  pleasant  supplement  to  the  ordinary  diet,  but  the 
actual  nutriment  which  they  supply  is  small. 

Extra  nutriment  can  be  added  to  gelatin  by  combining  it 
with  eggs  and  milk,  as  in  Snow  Pudding,  Charlottes  of 
various  kinds,  Spanish  Cream,  etc.,  all  of  which  are  attrac- 
tive forms  of  invalid  diet. 

Meat  Jellies  are  condensed  form  of  broth,  and  are  prepared 
by  taking  any  meat  containing  a  large  proportion  of  connec- 
tive tissues  and  cooking  long  and  slowly.  (Note  broths,  page 
217  for  directions  and  recipes.)  Home-made  jellies,  prop- 
erly prepared,  have  a  pleasing  flavor  and  are  an  agreeable 
addition  to  diet  of  an  invalid,  although  their  nutritive  value 
is  low. 

WINE  JELLY  NO.  I,  165  CALORIES 

(Individual  Rule.) 
1  teaspoon  granulated  gelatin.        2  tablespoons  wine. 

1  tablespoon  <jold  water.  1  tablespoon  orange  juice. 
y±  cup  boiling  water.                          1  teaspoon  lemon  juice. 

2  tablespoons   sugar. 


GELATIN  205 

Soak  gelatin  in  the  cold  water  5  minutes;  add  the  boiling 
water  and  dissolve.  Add  sugar,  wine,  orange  and  lemon 
juice.  When  sugar  is  dissolved,  strain  through  a  cheese- 
cloth into  cold,  wet  molds;  or  chill  in  shallow  soup  plate 
and  when  firm  cut  into  one-half  inch  cubes  and  serve  in 
sherbert  or  champagne  glasses,  or  half  orange  shell  with  a 
little  whipped  cream  on  top. 

WINE  JELLY  NO.  II,  1530  CALORIES 

(Six  Servings.) 
1 1  box  shredded  gelatin  or  2  cups  boiling  water. 

2  tablespoons  granulated  gelatin.    1  cup  wine. 
y2  cup  cold  water.  Speck  salt. 

iy2  cups  sugar. 

Cover  gelatin  with  the  cold  water  and  let  it  stand  about 
one-half  hour.  Add  the  boiling  water,  sugar  and  salt.  Stir 
till  gelatin  is  dissolved  and  add  the  wine.  Strain  through 
cloth  and  strainer  into  cold,  wet  molds  and  set  in  cold  place 
to  harden.     Serve  plain  or  with  whipped  cream. 

PEPT0N0IDS  WINE  JELLY,   192   CALORIES 

yA  box  gelatin.  2  tablespoons  sugar. 

4  tablespoons  cold  water.  1  tablespoon  sherry  wine. 

8  tablespoons  boiling  water.  1  tablespoon  Liquid  Peptonoids. 

Soak  gelatin  in  the  cold  water  5  minutes;  add  the  boiling 
water,  sugar,  wine  and  Liquid  Peptonoids.  When  sugar  is 
dissolved,  strain  and  pour  into  cold,  wet  molds.  Put  on  ice 
to  harden. 

ORANGE  JELLY  NO.  I,   1020  CALORIES 
(Six  Serving-.  | 
1 1   box   shredded  gelatin  or  1   cup  sugar. 

■1  tablespoon*  granulated  gelatin.    1   cup  orange  juice. 
y2  cup  cold  water.  Juice  1  lemon. 

■1  cups  boiling  water. 

-  ik  the  gelatin  in  the  cold  water  one-half  hour;  add  the 
boiling  water  and  dissolve.  Add  sugar  and  fruit  juice, 
strain   through   a   cloth   and   strainer   into   cold,   wet   molds 


206  ANIMAL  FOODS 

and    set    away    to   harden.     Serve   plain    or    with    whipped 
cream. 

ORANGE  JELLY  NO.  II,   152  CALORIES 
(Individual  Rule.) 
1  teaspoon  granulated  gelatin.        3  tablespoons  orange  juice. 
1  tablespoon  cold  water.  2  teaspoons  lemon  juice. 

1  tablespoon  boiling  water.  2  tablespoons  sugar. 

Make  same  as  preceding.     Soaking  gelatin  five  minutes. 

Cut  orange  in  half,  crosswise,  remove  pulp  with  spoon 
and  strain  through  cheese-cloth.  Fill  halves  with  jelly ;  when 
it  is  hardened  cut  with  sharp  knife  into  thirds  (which  leaves 
the  rim  filled  with  jelly).  Serve  three  pieces  on  small  plate 
with  whipped  cream  in  center. 

ORANGE  BASSETS 

Wash  oranges.  Remove  two  sections  from  the  upper  half 
of  an  orange,  leaving  a  band  of  peel  for  a  handle.  Dig  out 
the  pulp  and  scrape  clean.  Fill  with  lemon  or  orange  jelly, 
cut  into  cubes.     An  attractive  form  to  serve  to  children. 

Note. —  If  these  shells  are  wrapped  in  a  damp  cloth  they 
will  retain  their  shape  for  hours. 

LEMON  JELLY,   142   CALORIES 

(Individual  Rule.) 
1  teaspoon  granulated  gelatin.        2  tablespoons  lemon  juice. 
1  tablespoon  cold  water.  2  tablespoons  sugar. 

14  cup  boiling  water. 

Soak  gelatin  in  the  cold  water  5  minutes ;  add  the  boiling 
water,  sugar  and  fruit  juice.  When  the  sugar  is  dissolved, 
pour  into  cold,  wet  molds  and  put  on  ice  to  harden. 

GRAPE   JELLY,   588   CALORIES 

(Individual  Rule.) 
1   tablespoon  granulated  gelatin.    %   cup  sugar. 
14  cup  cold  water.  Juice  1  lemon. 

1  cup  boiling  water.  %  cup  grape  juice. 

Soak  gelatin  in  the  cold  water;  add  boiling  water  and 
dissolve.  Add  sugar,  lemon  juice  and  grape  juice;  strain, 
pour  into  cold,  wet  molds  and  cool. 


GELATIN  207 

This  recipe  may  be  served  in  another  and  very  inviting 
form;  when  the  gelatin  is  firm,  force  it  through  a  potato 
ricer.     Keep  on  ice  until  ready  to  serve. 

PEACH   JELLY,    130   CALORIES 

(Individual  Rule.) 
1  teaspoon  granulated  gelatin.        1  teaspoon  lemon  juice. 
1  teaspoon  cold  water.  1  tablespoon  sherry  wine. 

1  tablespoon  boiling  water.  1%  tablespoons  sugar. 

3  tablespoons  peach  juice. 

Soak  gelatin  in  the  cold  water  5  minutes;  add  boiling 
w*ater  and  dissolve.  Add  fruit  juice,  wine  and  sugar,  strain 
and  pour  into  a  cold,  wet  mold. 

COFFEE  JELLY,  529  CALORIES 

(Individual  Rule.) 
1  teaspoon  granulated  gelatin.       2  tablespoons  sugar. 

1  tablespoon  cold  water.  7  tablespoons  cream. 

2  tablespoons  strong  hot  coffee. 

Soak  gelatin  in  the  cold  water  5  minutes.  Add  the  hot 
coffee  and  dissolve;  add  sugar  and  strain.  Set  bowl  into 
chopped  ice,  or  ice  water  to  cool,  stirring  occasionally  until 
it  thickens.  Then  add  the  cream,  and  pour  into  cold,  wet 
molds  to  chill. 

PEPTONOIDS  COFFEE  JELLY,  255  CALORIES  1 
y4  box  granulated  gelatin.  Sugar  to  taste. 

4  tablespoons  cold  water.  8  tablespoons  Liquid  Peptonoids. 
8  tablespoons  boiling  coffee. 

Soak  gelatin  in  the  cold  water  5  minutes;  add  the  boiling 
coffee,  sugar  and  Liquid  Peptonoids.  When  sugar  is  dis- 
solved, strain  and  pour  into  cold,  wet  molds.  Put  on  ice 
to  harden. 

CREAM   JELLY,   330   CALORIES 
(Individual  Rule.) 
1  teaspoon  granulated  gelatin.        1  tablespoon  sugar. 
1  tablespoon  cold  water.  Speck  salt. 

3  tablespoons  scalded  milk.  Vanilla  to  taste, 

4  tablespoons  thick  cream. 

1  Without  sugar. 


208  ANIMAL  FOODS 

Soak  gelatin  in  the  cold  water  5  minutes;  add  the 
scalded  milk  and  dissolve.  Add  the  sugar,  salt,  cream  and 
vanilla.  Stir  occasionally  until  the  mixture  thickens;  pour 
into  cold,  wet  after-dinner  coffee  cups,  or  egg  cups,  and  chill. 
Serve  with  Soft  Custard,  or  cream  and  sugar. 

PEPTONISED  MILK  JELLY,   517  CALORIES  i 
(Three  Servings.) 
1  pint  "  specially  peptonised  Rinds    and    juice    of    one    fresh 

milk,"  hot.  lemon  and  orange. 

y2  box  gelatin.  2  or  3  tablespoons  best  St.  Croix 

Sugar  to  taste.  rum,  or  brandy,  etc. 

Soak  the  gelatin  in  a  cup  of  cold  water,  pour  the  hot  milk 
over  it  and  add  the  sugar;  stir  until  dissolved,  then  throw 
in  the  lemon  and  orange  rinds. 

Squeeze  the  juice  of  the  lemon  and  orange  into  a  glass 
and  strain ;  stir  in  the  rum  or  brandy,  etc.,  then  mix  with  the 
milk  and  gelatin;  strain. 

When  the  mixture  has  cooled  to  a  syrup  so  as  to  be  almost 
ready  to  set,  pour  into  molds  or  glasses  wet  in  cold  water 
and  put  on  ice  or  in  cold  water  or  in  a  cold  place  to  harden ; 
if  it  is  too  warm  when  poured  into  the  molds,  it  is  apt 
to  separate  in  setting. 

PANOPEPTON  JELLY,  242  CALORIES 

(Three  Servings.) 
1  ounce  fresh  celery    (cut  2  dashes  pepper. 

in  small  pieces).  6  tablespoons  Panopeptoo. 

y2  small  box  best  gelatin.  2  cups  cold  water. 

V4  teaspoon  salt. 

Soak  the  gelatin  in  one-half  cupful  of  cold  water  for  ono 
hour;  put  the  water  and  celery  in  a  double  boiler  on  the 
fire  and  simmer  one-half  hour;  add  the  salt,  pepper,  and 
soaked  gelatin  and  stir  until  it  is  dissolved;  remove  from 
fire,  add  Panopepton;  stir,  and  strain  through  linen  into  a 
jelly-jar,  and  set  near  ice.     Serve  in  small  quantities. 

1  Without  sugar. 


GELATIN  209 

DATE  JELLY,  1105  CALORIES 

%  lb.  Dromedary  Dates.  Mj  pint  orange  gelatin  jelly. 

y*  pint  strawberry  gelatin  jelly. 

Pit  dates  and  fill  with  walnuts  chopped  fine.  Pour  half 
the  strawberry  mixture  in  a  mold  and  when  it  begins  to 
harden,  cover  with  layer  of  dates  and  half  the  orange  mix- 
ture. When  this  hardens  repeat  the  process  until  all  the  in- 
gredients are  used.  Keep  on  ice  until  perfectly  firm.  Serve 
with  cream. 

MEAT    JELLIES 

See  "  Meat  Jellies  "  for  recipe.     Page  221. 

STARCHY  JELLIES 
See  u  Starchy  Jellies  "  for  recipe.     Page  244. 

SNOW  PUDDING,  934  CALORIES 

(Six  Servings.) 
Y*  box  shredded  gelatin  or  1  cup  sugar. 

1  tablespoon  granulated  gelatin.    %  cup  lemon  juice. 
*4  cup  cold  water.  Whites  3  eggs. 

1  cup  boiling  water.  1  teaspoon  lemon  extract. 

Soften  gelatin  in  cold  water,  add  boiling  water  and  dis- 
solve. Add  sugar,  fruit  juice  and  extract,  and  stir  until 
sugar  is  dissolved.  Set  bowl  into  chopped  ice,  or  ice  water, 
to  cool,  stirring  occasionally ;  when  jelly  is  quite  thick  fold 
in  the  stiffly-beaten  whites  of  eggs,  and  put  into  cold,  wet 
molds.  Put  on  ice  to  harden.  When  firm,  remove  from 
molds  and  serve  with  Soft  Custard  Xo.  1. 

SNOW  PUDDING,  222  CALORIES 

(Individual  Rule.) 

2  teaspoons    granulated    gelatin.     1%   tablespoons  lemon  juice. 

3  tablespoons   cold   water.  3  tablespoons  sugar. 
y3  cup  boiling  water.  White  1  egg. 

Make  same  as  preceding. 


210  ANIMAL  FOODS 

SPANISH  CREAM,  912  CALORIES 

(Three  Servings.) 
y4  box  shredded  gelatin  or  Yolks  3  eggs. 

1  tablespoon  granulated  gelatin.     6  tablespoons  sugar. 

14  teaspoon  salt. 
Whites  3  eggs. 

2  cups  milk.  1  teaspoon  vanilla. 

Soften  the  gelatin  in  the  cold  water,  add  the  boiling  water 
and  dissolve.  Heat  the  milk  in  a  double-boiler.  Beat  the 
yolk  of  eggs,  add  sugar  and  salt,  and  pour  the  hot  milk 
gradually  onto  the  mixture.  Eeturn  to  double-boiler  and 
cook  until  it  thickens,  stirring  constantly.  Add  the  strained 
gelatin  and  the  flavoring,  and  fold  in  carefully  the  well- 
beaten  whites.  Pour  into  cold,  wet  molds  to  harden.  Serve 
with  Soft  Custard  No.  1,  or  with  Whipped  Cream. 

SPANISH  CREAM,  303   CALORIES 

(Individual  Rule.) 
1  teaspoon  granulated  gelatin.        2  tablespoons  sugar. 
1  tablespoon  cold  water.  Speck  salt. 

3  tablespoons  boiling  water.  White  1  egg. 

%  cup  milk.  y4  teaspoon  vanilla. 

Yolk  1  egg. 

Make  same  as  preceding,  and  serve  with  Orange  Sauce. 

ORANGE  SAUCE,  136  CALORIES 

(Three  Servings.) 
Beat  white  of  one  egg  very  light,  add  two  tablespoons  sugar 
gradually,   beating  constantly,  then   add  one  and  one-half 
tablespoon  orange  juice  and  one  teaspoon  lemon  juice. 

BAVARIAN  CREAM,  205  CALORIES 

(Individual  Rule.) 
1  teaspoon  gelatin.  y2  tablespoon  sugar. 

1  tablespoon  cold  water.  *4  teaspoon  vanilla. 

y4  cup  milk.  %  cup  whipped  cream. 

Yolk  1  egg. 

Soak  gelatin  in  cold  water  5  minutes.  Heat  the  milk  and 
pour  into  the  beaten  yolk  of  egg  and  add  this  mixture  to  gela- 


GELATIX  211 

tin  ;  stir  until  gelatin  is  dissolved  and  flavor.  Set  in  ice  water 
to  cool,  beating  almost  constantly.  When  it  begins  to  stiffen, 
fold  in  the  whipped  cream.  Pour  into  molds.  Serve  with 
whipped  cream. 

Note. —  Chocolate  may  be  added  by  omitting  flavoring  and 
add  chocolate  to  hot  milk  and  dissolve  before  adding  to  the 
yolk. 

GRAPE  FLUFF,  957  CALORIES 
(Six  Servings.) 
14  box  shredded  gelatin  or  1  cup  grape  juice. 

1  tablespoon  granulated  gelatin.  Juice  1  lemon. 
*4  cup  cold  water.  Whites  3  eggs. 
%   eup  sugar. 

Soften  the  gelatin  in  cold  water  and  dissolve  by  standing 
the  dish  in  hot  water.  Dissolve  the  sugar  in  the  fruit  juice, 
and  strain  the  gelatin  into  it.  Set  in  ice  and  water,  and 
stir  occasionally  until  the  mixture  begins  to  thicken,  then 
add  gradually  the  well-beaten  whites  of  eggs,  and  beat  until 
the  whole  is  very  light  and  stiff  enough  to  hold  its  shape. 
Pile  lightly  in  glass  serving-dish,  or  mold  and  serve  with 
Whipped  Cream  or  Soft  Custard. 

ORANGE  CHARLOTTE.  350  CALORIES 

(Individual  Rule.) 

2  teaspoons  gelatin.  3  tablespoons  orange  juice. 
1  tablespoon   cold  water.  1  tablespoon  lemon  juice. 
y3  cup  boiling  water.                          Whites  2  eggs. 

y3  cup  sugar. 

Blend  as  for  Orange  Gelatin  and  set  the  bowl  into  chopped 
ice  or  ice-water  to  cool;  stir  occasionally.  When  jelly  is 
quite  thick,  fold  in  the  stiffly-beaten  whites  of  eggs.  Mix 
well  and  pour  into  cold,  wet  molds.  Put  on  ice  to  harden. 
When  firm,  remove  by  dipping  mold  quickly  in  warm  water; 
loosen  with  knife,  allowing  air  to  enter.  Serve  with  Soft 
Custard  Xo.  1. 

Xote. —  Line  molds  with  lady  fingers  or  slices  of  sponge 
cake  and  pour  in  the  charlotte. 


212  ANIMAL  FOODS 

STRAWBERRY  MOUSSE,  2284  CALORIES 

*4  box  shredded  gelatin  or  1  pint  thick  cream. 

1  tablespoon  granulated  gelatin.  %    cup   powdered   sugar. 

14  cup  cold  water.  1  cup  strawberry  juice. 
%  cup  boiling  water. 

Soften  the  gelatin  in  the  cold  water ;  add  the  boiling  water 
and  dissolve.  Whip  the  cream  until  stiff,  and  add  the  pow- 
dered sugar.  To  the  gelatin  add  the  strawberry  juice,  fold 
the  cream  in  carefully,  turn  into  a  wet  mold  and  pack  in 
salt  and  ice  for  two  hours. 

THE  MADE-IN-A-MINUTE  DESSERT,  395  CALORIES 

Dissolve  one  package  of  Jell-0  in  one  pint  of  boiling  water. 
Pour  into  a  mould  and  put  in  a  cold  place  to  harden.  When 
set  turn  out  on  a  plate  and  serve  with  whipped  cream.  Wine 
Jelly  can  be  made  by  using  one-fourth  cup  of  good  wine  with 
the  Lemon  Jell-O,  and  using  that  much  less  water. 

JELL-0  AND  FRTJIT,  395  CALORIES 

After  dissolving  the  Jell-0  (any  flavor)  in  a  pint  of  boil- 
ing water,  pour  it  into  the  mould,  or  dish  and  set  it  in  a  cold 
place.  When  it  has  begun  to  thicken  and  the  fruit  will  re- 
main in  place  and  not  rise  to  the  top,  put  in  the  fruit,  plac- 
ing it  in  position  with  a  fork.  Berries,  fresh  or  canned,  or 
sliced  oranges,  bananas  or  other  fruit,  and  nutmeats  also, 
may  be  added  in  the  manner  described.  Serve  with  whipped 
cream.  This  recipe  may  be  varied  indefinitely  by  using  differ- 
ent flavors  of  Jell-0  and  different  fruits. 
BEEF  PREPARATIONS 

BEEF  JTJICE  —  BEEF  TEA  —  RAW  BEEF 
BEEF  JUICE 

Composition.  The  juice  of  meat  contains  considerable  pro- 
tein, in  addition  to  salts  and  extractives. 

General  Principles  in  Cooking.  From  raw  meat  we  can- 
not obtain  as  much  meat  juice  as  is  easily  taken  from  the  same 
amount  of  meat  when  previously  heated. 

1  Calculated  -without  fruit. 


BEEF  PREPARATIONS  213 

The  reason  for  this  is  that  the  envelope  enclosing  the 
muscular  tissue  is  a  tough  substance,  which  swells  and  dis- 
solves when  heated,  yielding  gelatin,  and  the  liquid  portion 
of  the  meat  is  easily  expressed.  If  cooked  too  long  the  pro- 
tein largely  coagulates  and  the  meat  loses  most  of  its  moisture 
and  becomes  tough. 

A  steak  thoroughly  heated  through  swells,  and  when  cut 
the  liquid  portion  flows  out  readily.  One  pound  of  meat 
yields  about  four  ounces  of  juice. 

Care  in  Serving.  In  administering  beef  juice  great  care 
should  be  taken  in  reheating  not  to  heat  it  above  136  degrees 
Fahrenheit,  at  which  temperature  albumin  coagulates  in 
flakes. 

Substitutes  for  Beef  Juice.  A  solution  of  white  of  egg 
flavored  with  meat  extract  makes  a  cheap  and  efficient  sub- 
stitute for  beef  juice. 

Prepared  extracts  of  good  make  may  be  used  to  advantage 
with  beef  juice  to  add  flavor  and  make  it  more  appetizing. 

Absorption.  Beef  juice  is  absorbed  in  the  rectum  to  nearly 
the  ?ame  extent  as  complete  peptones  and  is  an  excellent 
article  of  diet  where  solid  foods  cannot  be  given. 

Comparative  Food  Value  of  Beef  Juice  and  Beef  Tea. 
Beef  juice,  although  fourteen  times  as  rich  in  protein  as 
beef  tea,  is  raw  in  flavor,  and  is  rejected  by  many  palates. 
In  such  a  case,  add  a  small  quantity  of  beef  tea  or  prepared 
beef  extract  for  flavor. 

Thus  by  the  union  of  two  bodies,  one  rich  in  protein  and 
the  other  rich  in  flavor,  we  have  a  superior  food.  Prepare 
a  small  quantity  at  a  time,  as  it  does  not  keep  well. 

BEEF    TEA 

C'oTiijKtsitwn.  Meat  treated  with  hot  water  contains  only 
a  small  percentage  of  solids  and  almost  no  protein  except 
extractive  matter  and  soluble  mineral  matter.  The  clear 
liquid  which  remains  when  the  coagulated  albumin  is  strained 
out  of  beef  tea  contains  only  extractive  or  flavoring  sub- 
stances with  the  soluble  mineral  matter  of  the  meat.     There- 


214  ANIMAL  FOODS 

fore  it  should  not  be  strained,  and  if  properly  prepared  the 
albumin  will  not  be  coagulated  to  so  great  an  extent. 

Even  in  strong  beef  tea  which  is  carefully  made  the  amount 
of  proteids  present  has  been  found  to  be  less  than  2  per  cent. 

Nutritive  Value.  Beef  tea  is  valuable  in  the  sick  room  not 
as  a  food,  but  as  a  flavoring;  the  liquid  with  the  heat  of  the 
water  acts  as  a  stimulant. 

Beef  Extracts  are  prepared  in  both  liquid  and  solid  form. 
They  have  but  slight  nutritive  value,  containing  but  4  to  5 
per  cent,  of  protein,  but  are  valuable  for  their  flavoring  prop- 
erties. They  are  used  to  advantage  in  combination  with  beef 
juice,  adding  flavoring  and  making  it  more  palatable  and 
appetizing. 

RAW  BEEF 

Uncooked  Meat.  Eaw  meat  is  not  quite  as  easily  digested 
as  cooked  meat,  and  owing  to  color  and  flavor  is  not  appetiz- 
ing, and  could  not  be  taken  continuously.  However,  when 
chopped  fine,  or  scraped  free  from  connective  tissue,  it  is 
very  readily  digested  and  can  be  served  disguised  or  very 
slightly  cooked  in  many  dainty  ways. 

Comparative  Food  Value  of  Raw  Beef  and  Beef  Tea.  It 
can  readily  be  seen  that  raw  meat  served  chopped  fine  or 
scraped  contains  all  the  nutriment  of  the  meat,  whereas  beef 
tea  as  seen  from  the  manner  of  preparation,  contains  only  the 
extractives  and  soluble  mineral  matter  of  meat. 

BEEF   JUICE 

100  grams  (3%  oz.)  =  25  Calories. 
Select  a  piece  of  meat  from  the  rump  or  top  of  the  round. 
Eemove  all  fat  and  broil  or  warm  slightly  one  or  two  min- 
utes, to  set  free  the  juices;  lay  on  plate  and  cut  meat  in 
various  directions  that  more  juice  may  be  extracted;  then 
squeeze  out  the  juice  by  means  of  a  press,  lemon  squeezer  or 
potato  ricer  into  a  slightly  warmed  cup.  Salt  if  necessary, 
and  serve  at  once.  Prepare  only  enough  to  serve,  as  it  does 
not  keep  well.  Serve  in  dainty  china  cup  to  disguise  color. 
One  pound  of  meat  yields  four  ounces  of  juice. 


BEEF  PREPARATIONS  215 

BEEF  JUICE  (FOR  INFANTS),  20  CALORIES 
This  food  is  very  useful  in  forms  of  diarrhoea  and  dysen- 
tery. A  half  pound  of  chopped  lean  meat  is  made  into  an 
oval,  flat  mass,  placed  on  a  broiler  and  slightly  browned. 
The  juice  is  then  expressed  with  a  small  meat  press,  mixed 
with  equal  parts  of  barley  water  and  salted  to  suit  the  taste. — 

Koplik. 

BEEF   ESSENCE 

100  grams    (3y2  oz.)  =23  Calories. 

Put  one-half  pound  round  steak  (freed  from  fat,  etc.) 
through  a  meat  chopper;  put  into  small  glass  fruit  jar  with 
one  tablespoon  cold  water.  Place  jar  in  a  kettle  of  cold 
water,  heat  gradually  and  keep  at  temperature  150  degrees 
Fahrenheit  (which  is  62  degrees  below  the  boiling  point  of 
water)  for  two  hours.  Strain  and  press  the  meat  to  obtain 
all  the  juice.  Season  with  salt.  Serve  in  slightly  heated 
dainty  china  cup  to  disguise  color. 

Xote. —  A  small  piece  of  raw  beef,  broiled  slightly,  then 
cut  up  and  added  to  above,  gives  a  better  flavor. 

Liquid  thus  obtained  should  be  red  with  albuminous  juice 
in  solution  and  not  coagulated;  it  is  nutritious,  and  may  be 
kept  in  refrigerator  tvrelve  hours.  Serve  in  small  quantity 
slightly  heated ;  or  it  may  be  made  into  beef  tea  by  diluting 
with  boiling  water.  Beef  essence  given  ice  cold  is  often 
grateful  to  a  fever  patient. 

LIQTJTD   PEPTONOIDS,   28   CALORIES 

Add  one  tablespoonful  of  Liquid  Peptonoids  to  one-half 
cup  of  boiling  water;  add  pinch  of  salt.  Sip  slowly.  This 
will  be  found  particularly  grateful  in  painful  affections  of 
the  throat. 

Xote. —  To  serve  cold,  pour  one  tablespoonful  Liquid  Pep- 
tonoids over  a  small  glass  of  finely  cracked  ice.  Allow  it  to 
chill  thoroughly  and  sip  slowly. 

BEEF  TEA 
V2  pound  steak.  Salt. 

1  cup  cold  water. 


216  ANIMAL  FOODS 

Wipe  steak,  remove  all  fat  and  cut  in  small  pieces.  Put 
in  glass  fruit  jar,  add  the  cold  water  and  let  it  stand  fifteen 
minutes  to  draw  out  the  juice.  Cover  jar,  using  rubber  band 
and  cover,  place  on  trivet  in  a  kettle  and  surround  with  cold 
water.  Allow  water  to  heat  slowly  to  150°  F.  (no  higher), 
and  keep  at  this  temperature  two  hours.  Strain  and  season 
with  salt.  Eemove  fat  with  soft  paper  or  bread.  Eeheat 
over  hot  water  to  130°  F.  and  serve  in  heated  cups. 

Note. —  If  possible  cool  beef  tea  before  serving  that  fat  may 
be  removed  more  thoroughly. 

BEEF  TEA  FROZEN 

Beef  tea  may  be  frozen  to  the  consistency  of  a  water  ice. 
Very  grateful  to  a  fever  patient. 

BEEF  TEA  WITH  HYDROCHLORIC  ACID 

100  grams  (3%  oz.)  =25  Calories.* 
Select  one-half  pound  of  good  beef;  remove  everything  that 
is  not  clear  meat.  Chop  it  fine.  Put  in  pint  fruit  jar  and 
add  one  cup  cold  water  and  five  drops  dilute  hydrochloric  acid. 
Stir  and  set  in  refrigerator  or  any  cold  place  for  two  hours 
to  digest.  Then  strain,  season  with  salt  and  serve  in  some 
dainty  china  cup  on  account  of  color.  If  one  should  object 
to  color,  heat  the  tea  in  a  double  boiler  just  till  color  changes. 
Do  not  strain.  Beef  tea  made  in  this  way  is  recommended 
by  physicians  for  feeble  children  and  patients  much  weakened 
by  sickness. 

ICED  PANOPEPTON,   30   CALORIES 

To  a  small  glass  half-full  of  clean  crushed  ice  add  one 
tablespoonful  of  Panopepton;  let  it  stand  a  moment  and  then 
sip  slowly. 

PANOPEPTON  — HOT,  36  CALORIES 

To  a  small  teacup  two-thirds  full  of  boiling  water,  add  one 
tablespoonful  of  Panopepton,  and  one  teaspoonful  of  fresh 
lemon  juice  —  a  little  sugar,  if  desired  —  stir.     Drink  im- 

1  Calculated  as  beef  juice. 


BROTH  AND  MEAT  -It: LUES  217 

mediately,  sipping  slowly.  This  gives  a  pleasant  sense  of 
warmth  when  one  is  chilly,  and  is  excellent  in  cases  where 
light  nourishment  is  required  before  retiring. 

SCRAPED  BEEF 
100  grams  =  142  Calories. 
Wipe  a  small  piece  of  steak,  cut  from  top  of  round.  Lay 
it  on  a  meat  board,  and  with  a  sharp  knife  scrape  off  the  soft 
part  until  there  is  nothing  left  but  the  tough,  stringy  fibers. 
Make  it  into  little  flat,  round  cakes  half  an  inch  thick  and 
broil  them  two  minutes.  Season  with  salt  and  pepper  if 
allowed.  Serve  on  rounds  of  buttered  toast.  Do  not  add 
salt  before  cooking,  as  it  toughens  the  meat. 

RAW   BEEF   SANDWICHES 

1  ounce  scraped  beef =40  Calories. 

1  ounce  bread  ( 1  slice)    =73  Calories. 

Prepare  meat  as  for  scraped  beef,  season  and  spread  on 
bread  cut  very  thin.  Put  slices  on  top,  sandwich-fashion, 
and  cut  in  fancy  shapes.  Serve  in  this  manner  or  toast 
daintily. 

BROTH  AND  MEAT  JELLIES 

Broth  is  a  liquid  containing  the  juices  of  soluble  parts  of 
meat  and  bone,  which  have  been  extracted  by  long,  slow  cook- 
ing- 

This  liquid  is  more  or  less  solid  when  cold,  according  to  the 
gelatinous  nature  of  the  ingredients.  It  varies  greatly  in 
quantity,  according  to  the  manner  in  which  it  is  prepared 
and  the  material  used.  The  cheaper,  inferior  parts  of  meat 
yield  more  nutriment  than  the  expensive  cuts. 

Composition.  Broth  contains  almost  no  protein  except  ex- 
tractive matter  with  soluble  mineral  matter  and  gelatin. 

Objective  Point  and  General  Principle*  in  Cooking.  Tli<> 
chief  object  in  making  broth  is  to  obtain  the  largest  possible 
amount  of  nutriment  from  the  meat.  This  is  best  accom- 
plished by  observing  the  following  rules: 


218  ANIMAL  FOODS 

Cut  meat  into  small  pieces. 

Soak  in  the  cold  water  before  heating. 

Use  a  careful  selection  and  proportion  of  meat,  bone  and' 
■water.  (The  usual  proportion  is  one  pint  of  water  to  one 
pound  of  meat.) 

Season  judiciously. 

Use  steam-tight  kettle;  simmer  (not  boil),  that  the  juice 
may  be  fully  extracted. 

Make  it  the  day  before  using,  that  the  fat  may  be  removed 
more  easily. 

Long,  slow  cooking. 

Broth  may  be  made  from  beef,  mutton  or  chicken.  Eice, 
barley,  white  or  whole  egg,  etc.,  may  be  added,  if  allowed,  to 
increase  the  quantity  of  nourishment. 

Comparative  Value  of  Broth  and  Beef  Tea.  Broth  differs 
from  beef  tea  in  that  it  contains  gelatin,  besides  the  extrac- 
tives or  flavoring  substances  and  soluble  mineral  matter  that 
are  found  in  beef  tea.  Gelatin  is  obtained  from  meat  and 
bones  by  long,  slow  cooking,  and  it  is  useful  in  convalescence 
and  in  febrile  states.      (Note  "  Gelatin,"  p.  203.) 

Meat  Jellies  are  a  condensed  form  of  broth,  which  forms  an 
agreeable  way  of  serving  protein  food  to  an  invalid,  and  are 
especially  valuable  in  febrile  states.  Although  they  do  not 
entirely  replace  protein  in  the  diet,  they  produce  a  consid- 
erable quantity  of  energy.  (Note  "  Gelatin,"  p.  203,  for 
nutritive  value.) 


ENERGY   VALUE    OF   BROTH 

Yery  few  analyses  of  broths  are  available ;  hence  no  attempt 
has  been  made  to  state  the  calories  under  each  recipe.  The 
following  table  gives  an  approximate  idea  of  their  energy 
value : 

Beef  broth 100  grams  yield  16.5  Calories. 

Beef  juice   100  grams  yield  25     Calories. 

Clam   bouillon    100  grams  yield     2     Calories. 

Consomme   100  grams  yield  12     Calories. 


BROTH  819 

Food  that  may  be  added  for  extra  nutriment 
1  whole  egg  (average)  ....   45  grams  yield  GO  Calories. 
White  of  1  egg   (average).    25  grains  yield    L3   Calories. 
Yolk  of  1  egg  (average)  .  .    13  grams  yield  48  Calories. 

1  tablespoon  riee 15  grams  yield  50  Calories. 

1  tablespoon  bailey 27  grams  yield  90  Calories. 

MUTTON  BROTH 

2  pounds  mutton,  cut  from  fore-  Speck  pepper. 

quarters.  2  tables] as  boiled  rice  or  bar- 

1  quart  cold  water.  ley. 

1   teaspoon  salt. 

Wipe  meat,  remove  skin  and  fat  and  cut  into  small  pieces. 
Put  in  a  kettle  with  bones  that  have  been  well  broken,  add 
cold  water  and  let  it  stand  one-half  hour  to  extract  the  juices. 
Heat  gradually  to  boiling  point,  skim,  and  when  partly  cooked 
season  with  salt  and  pepper.  Simmer  four  hours,  or  until 
meat  is  tender.  Do  not  allow  it  to  boil.  Eemove  fat  and 
stiain  through  a  coarse  sieve.  Serve  hot.  If  broth  is  made 
the  day  before  it  is  used,  it  can  be  cooled  thoroughly  and 
the  fat  be  removed  easily.  In  reheating  use  double  boiler. 
Two  tablespoons  of  cooked  rice  or  barley  may  be  added  if 
desired.  The  barley  should  be  soaked  over  night  or  several 
hours  before  cooking.  Taste  and  season  before  serving,  a  tea- 
spoon of  chopped  parsley  may  be  added  just  before  serving 
if  desired. 

Note. —  For  weaker  broth,  use  one  quart  of  water  to  one 
pound  of  meat. 

BEEF  BROTH 
Prepared  same  as  Mutton  Broth. 

BROTH   WITH    GRAINS 
1  quart  hot  broth.  1  tahlespoon   rice  or   barley. 

To  the  hot  broth  add  the  well-washed  rice.  Simmer  slowly 
until  the  rice  is  tender,  adding  more  broth  if  it  evaporates. 
The  broth  should  be  strained  before  using. 


220  ANIMAL  FOODS 

CHICKEN    BROTH 

3%  pounds  chicken.  1  teaspoon  salt. 

3  pints  cold  water.  Speck  pepper. 

2  tablespoons  rice. 

Thoroughly  clean  a  chicken  (see  "Poultry,"  p.  153),  re- 
move skin  and  fat;  separate  at  the  joints  and  wipe  with  a 
wet  cloth.  Put  in  kettle  and  add  the  cold  water  and  let 
stand  one-half  hour.  Heat  very  slowly  and  simmer  three 
hours,  or  until  meat  is  tender.  When  half-cooked  skim  off 
fat  and  add  the  rice  and  seasonings  (and  if  desired,  a  small 
onion).  When  meat  is  tender,  skim  off  fat  and  strain,  taste 
and  season  properly  and  serve  hot.  When  possible,  make 
broth  the  day  before  using,  that  it  may  be  thoroughly  cooled 
and  the  fat  removed  easily.  Eeheat  in  a  double  boiler.  The 
rice  may  be  cooked,  and  rubbed  through  strainer  before  add- 
ing to  broth,  or  it  may  be  omitted  if  desired.  An  old  fowl, 
not  too  fat,  is  best  for  broth. 

VEAL    BROTH 

Prepared  same  as  Chicken  Broth  (use  cut  from  loin  or 
knuckle  of  veal). 

CLAM  BROTH   NO.  I 

Take  five  clams,  wash  and  scrub  well  and  put  in  saucepan 
with  cold  water  to  cover.  Cook  until  shells  open,  remove 
from  pan  and  take  out  clams.  Chop  and  put  them  back  into 
broth.  Cook  fifteen  minutes.  Strain  through  muslin;  serve 
hot.     If  too  strong  flavor,  add  hot  water. 

Note. —  If  made  in  large  quantity,  use  two  or  three  clams 
to  one  cup  water. 

This  broth  may  be  frozen  to  the  consistency  of  a  frappe. 

CLAM  BROTH  NO.  II 

V2  cup  clam  broth.  Pepper. 

1  cup  water  or  milk.  %  teaspoon  butter. 

Blend  the  clam  broth  and  water  (or  milk),  and  heat  to  the 
boiling  point.  Season  with  salt  to  taste,  and  if  allowed,  a 
little  pepper  and  the  butter.     Serve  hot  in  dainty  cups. 


MEAT  JELLIES  221 

EGG  BROTH 

If  one  cannot  conveniently  get  protein  from  meat,  a  very 
nutritious  broth  may  be  made  by  means  of  hot  water  into 
which  an  egg  has  been  stirred.  Heat  three  tablespoons  of 
water  to  not  above  149  degrees  Fahrenheit  (below  the  sim- 
mering point),  and  pour  it  gradually  into  a  raw  egg.  The 
liquid  is  milky  if  the  yolk  is  used;  clear  if  only  the  white  is 
used.  It  has  little  taste,  which  is  an  advantage  with  many 
patients.  This  broth  may  be  flavored  with  beef  extract  or 
hot  prepared  broth  may  be  used  in  place  of  the  hot  water. 

Note:     The  white  or  yolk  of  egg  may  be  used  separately. 

PREPARED  BROTHS 

Prepared  Mutton  Broth,  Beef  Broth,  Chicken  Broth  and 
Clam  Broth  ready  for  use  and  of  reliable  quality,  can  now 
be  purchased  at  best  grocers.  The  Franco-American  brand 
tins  contain  y2  pint  or  8  oz.  of  Clear  Broth,  making  a 
good  cupful.  Additional  food  value  can  be  given  to  the  Meat 
Broths  thus  prepared  by  the  addition  of  either  one  even  tea- 
spoon of  patent  barley  flour,  arrowroot,  farina  or  two  tea- 
spoons of  sago.  These  different  ingredients  should  be  cooked 
slowly  in  the  Broth  for  ten  or  twelve  minutes. 

MEAT  JELLIES 

CALF'S  FOOT  JELLY 

100  grams  =  Go  Calories. 
1  calf's  foot.  Rind   of    %    lemon    (yellow  part 

1  quart  cold  water.  only). 

3  cups  sherry  wine  (best  Topaz).    *£  cup  cut  or  cube  sugar. 
Juice  of  one  lemon. 

Clean  calf's  foot  and  put  into  the  cold  water ;  bring  slowl y 
to  boiling  point,  and  boil  five  hours;  skim  if  necessary,  while 
cooking.  Strain  through  cheese-cloth  and  allow  it  to  stand 
until  firm  and  remove  the  fat. 

Mix  lemon  juice,  wine,  the  whites  and  shells  of  eggs,  sugar 
and  beat  all  together  until  the  sugar  is  dissolved,  then  add  to 
the  jelly.  Place  on  the  fire  in  an  enamel  stewpan,  and  stir 
constantly  until  the  mixture  is  very  hot,  but  not  boiling; 
strain  through  a  jelly  bag,  made  of  cotton  flannel,  and  allow 


222  ANIMAL  FOODS 

the  jelly  to  drip  through  same  slowly,  pour  into  molds  or 
glass  jars,  and  put  in  cold  place  to  harden. 

Note. —  Several  varieties  may  be  made  by  substituting  the 
different  flavors,  brandy,  rum,  port  wine,  champagne,  orange 
and  lemon  juice. 

CHICKEN  JELLY 

3  pounds  chicken.  8  peppercorns. 

1  quart  cold  water.  Salt. 

Prepare  chicken  as  for  chicken  broth  and  cut  flesh  and 
bone  into  small  pieces.  Put  into  saucepan  with  cold  water 
and  peppercorns  and  let  stand  one-half  hour.  Bring  slowly 
to  the  boiling  point,  remove  scum  and  cook  five  or  six  hours 
or  until  meat  is  very  tender  and  water  is  reduced  to  one  pint, 
while  cooking  keep  it  below  the  boiling  point.  Skim  fre- 
quently while  cooking,  strain  through  double  thickness  of 
cheese-cloth,  season  to  taste  and  let  stand  until  firm.  Ee- 
move  fat,  reheat  and  turn  into  glass  fruit  jars  or  individual 
molds  and  cool ;  put  in  ice  box  until  jellied. 

Additional  flavor  may  be  added  if  desired,  a  stalk  of  celery 
or  a  small  piece  of  bay  leaf  may  be  cooked  with  the  chicken. 

Note. —  Mutton  Broth  Jelly  may  be  treated  in  the  same 
way. 

BEEF    JELLY 
3    pounds    solid    meat    from   the   4  quarts  cold  water, 
shoulder  or  shin.  2  teaspoons  salt. 

3  pounds  bone  from  same. 

Take  off  the  dried  skin  and  any  soft  or  bloody  portion. 
Cut  the  meat  into  small  pieces  and  put  it  with  the  cracked 
bone  into  an  earthen  jar.  Cover  with  the  cold  water.  Set 
in  slow  oven  and  cook  from  eight  to  twelve  hours.  Strain 
through  a  colander.  Add  salt  to  taste;  cool  quickly.  When 
cold  remove  the  fat.  Serve  cold  as  a  jelly,  or  reheat  in 
double  boiler. 


SOUP  223 

SOUP  AND  SOUP  ACCOMPANIMENTS 

Soup  is  a  light  and  suitable  form  of  food  for  the  sick. 
There  are  two  classes  —  those  made  with  meat  and  those 
without  meat. 

The  soups  with  meat  are  an  infusion  of  meat,  flavored  with 
salt  and  some  condiment.  They  are  treated  in  the  chapter 
on  broths. 

The  foundations  of  soups  without  meat  are  milk,  vegetables 
and  water.  They  are  dainty  and  nutritious,  and  an  excellent 
way  of  serving  milk  and  the  starch  and  mineral  matter  of  the 
vegetable. 

They  may  be  served  as  a  luncheon,  with  crisp  crackers,  or  as 
the  first  course  of  a  dinner.  Serve  daintily  in  heated  bouillon 
cups,  partly  filled,  on  small  plate  and  doily. 

General  Rule  for  blending: 

(a)  Prepare  vegetables,  cook  and  strain. 

(b)  Prepare  cream  sauce:  Melt  butter,  add  the  flour  and 
gradually  pour  on  the  scalded  milk  or  water.  Cook  thor- 
oughly. 

(r)  Blend  (a)  and  (b).  Season,  strain  and  serve  imme- 
diately. 

In  the  preparation  of  these  soups  great  care  must  be  taken 
that  the  starch  of  the  vegetable  and  of  the  flour  used  in  the 
thickening  is  thoroughly  cooked.  Cooking  temperature  of 
starch  is  212  degrees  Fahrenheit. 

CREAM   OF   ASPARAGUS    SOUP,   313    CALORIES 

(Individual  Rule.) 
*4  bundle  asparagus.  %  tablespoon  flour. 

1  cup  milk.  Salt. 

y2  tablespoon  butter.  Pepper. 

(a)  Wash  the  asparagus  and  cook  in  boiling  salted  water, 
boiling  gently  thirty  minutes.  Take  from  the  water,  cut  off 
the  tips  and  put  them  into  the  serving  dish;  press  the  re- 
mainder through  a  colander. 

(6)   Scald  the  milk.     Melt  the  butter,  add  the  flour  and 


224  ANIMAL  FOODS 

pour  on  gradually  the  scalding  milk.  Cook  thoroughly,  stir- 
ring often. 

Blend  (a)  and  (b) ;  reheat,  season  to  taste,  strain  over  tips 
and  serve  at  once  with  crisped  wafer  crackers. 

Note.-— For  individual  quantity  use  one-half  recipe. 

CREAM  OF  CORN  SOUP,  493  CALORIES 

(Two  Servings.) 
y<2  cup  corn.  1  cup  milk. 

%  cup  cold  water.  1  tablespoon  flour. 

a/4  slice  onion.  1  tablespoon  butter. 

Salt  and  pepper.  Yolk  1  egg. 

(a)  Chop  corn,  add  water  and  simmer  twenty  minutes; 
rub  through  a  sieve. 

(b)  Scald  milk  with  onion;  remove  onion.  Melt  butter, 
add  flour  and  gradually  pour  on  milk. 

Blend  (a)  and  (b) ;  cook  thoroughly,  season  to  taste  with 
salt  and  pepper  and  pour  onto  the  beaten  yolk.  When  well 
blended,  serve  hot. 

Note. —  The  yolk  of  egg  may  be  omitted. 

CREAM  OF  CELERY  SOUP,  320  CALORIES 

(Two  Servings.) 
4  stalks  celery.  1  tablespoon  butter. 

Y2  cup  boiling  water.  1  tablespoon  flour. 

Salt  and  pepper.  1  cup  rich  milk. 

(a)  Wash  and  scrape  the  celery  and  cut  into  small  pieces, 
add  the  water  and  cook  until  very  tender  and  soft.  Eencw 
the  water  if  it  boils  away.  Mash  the  celery  in  the  water  in 
which  it  was  cooked. 

(b)  Scald  milk.  Melt  the  butter  in  a  saucepan,  add  flour 
and  pour  on  gradually  the  scalded  milk.  Cook  thoroughly, 
stirring  carefully. 

Blend  (a)  and  (b)  ;  season  to  taste;  strain  and  serve  im- 
mediately with  croutons  or  crisped  crackers. 


SOUP 

CREAM  OF  CELERY  SOUP   (FOR  THE  DIABETIC),  226  CALORIES 

(Three  Servings.) 
6  stalks  celery.  Speck  cayenne  pepper,  salt. 

1    <li(v  onion.  ] •_.   teaspoon  butcer. 

1  cup  water.       1  cup  hot  milk.       y2  teaspoon  Gum  Gluten  Flour. 

Boil,  mash  and  strain  the  first  three  ingredients,  add  the 
hot  milk  or  cream.  Melt  the  butter,  add  the  flour  and  pour 
on  gradually  the  hot  soup  stock;  season  and  cook  thoroughly. 

CREAM  OF  PEA  SOUP,  215  CALORIES 

(Individual  Rule.) 

%  can  peas.  %  cup  milk. 

%  teaspoon  sugar.  y2  tablespoon  butter. 

%  cup  cold  water.  *£  tablespoon  flour. 
Salt  and  pepper. 

(a)  Drain  peas  from  their  liquor,  rinse  thoroughly,  add 
sugar  and  cold  water  and  simmer  twenty  minutes.  Rub 
through  a  sieve;  reheat. 

(b)  Scald  milk.  Melt  butter,  add  flour  and  pour  on  grad- 
ually the  scalding  milk.     Cook  thoroughly,  stirring  carefully. 

CREAM  OF  PEA  FLOUR  SOUP  P.  202  CALORIES 

(Individual  Rule.) 
1  tablespoon  pea  flour.  Salt. 

1  cup  cold  milk.  Pepper. 

Put  the  pea  flour  into  a  saucepan  and  pour  on  gradually 
the  cold  milk.  Cook  over  direct  heat,  stirring  constantly 
until  flour  is  thoroughly  cooked  (about  10  or  15  minutes). 
Season  with  salt  and  pepper,  serve  hot.  Bean,  lentil,  rice 
or  barley  flour  may  be  used  in  the  same  way. 

Xote. —  In    making   a   large    quantity   use    double   boiler. 
Cook  over  direct  heat  10  minutes  and  place  over  hot  water. 
CREAM  OF  ONION  SOUP,  297  CALORIES 
(Individual  Rule.) 

1  onion.  %  tablespoon  butter. 

1   cup  milk.  %  tablespoon  flour. 

Cut  onion  in  small  pieces  and  scald  in  milk.  Melt  butter, 
add  flour  and  add  gradually  the  milk  mixture  and  cook  well. 
S     -on  with  salt  and  pepper  and  strain. 


226  ANIMAL  FOODS 

ONION  SOUP  (FOR  THE  DIABETIC),  30  CALORIES 

One  Bermuda  or  three  green  onions  boiled  until  tender  in 
stock  or  water ;  mash  and  strain.  Add  one-half  teaspoon  Gum 
Gluten  Flour,  one-half  teaspoonful  butter  and  a  little  chopped 
parsley.     One  tablespoon  of  cream,  if  desired. 

CREAM  OF  POTATO  SOUP,  220  CALORIES 

(Individual  Rule.) 
%  cup  milk.  y2  tablespoon  flour. 

%  slice  onion.  %  teaspoon  salt. 

%  cup  mashed  potatoes.  Pepper. 

y2  tablespoon  butter. 

(a)  Scald  milk  with  onion  in  it,  remove  onion  and  add  milk 
slowly  to  potatoes,  (b)  Melt  butter,  add  flour  and  pour  on 
gradually  the  hot  mixture.  Cook  thoroughly  and  season  to 
taste.  A  little  celery  salt  may  be  added  if  desired.  A  little 
finely-chopped  parsley  may  be  sprinkled  over  top  of  soup. 

CREAM  OF  RICE  SOUP,  302  CALORIES 

(Individual  Rule.) 
1  tablespoon  rice.  Stalk  celery. 

1  cup  milk.  Ys  bay  leaf. 

%  tablespoon  butter.  Salt. 

y8  small  onion.  Pepper. 

Scald  the  milk,  add  the  well-washed  rice  and  cook  in  double 
boiler  thirty  minutes,  covered  closely. 

Melt  butter  in  saute  pan,  add  the  sliced  onion  and  cook  till 
tender,  but  not  brown.  Add  celery  sliced,  and  turn  into 
scalded  milk;  add  the  bay  leaf,  cover  and  let  stand  on  back 
of  stove  fifteen  minutes.  Strain,  season  with  salt  and  pepper, 
reheat  and  serve. 

Note. —  If  soup  is  too  thick,  add  a  little  heated  milk. 

TOMATO   SOUP    (WITH  BROTH),   110  CALORIES 

(Individual  Rule.) 
y2  cup  strained  tomatoes.  1   cup  water  or  stock. 

y2  tablespoon  butter.  %  teaspoon  salt. 

v.,  slice  onion.  Speck  pepper. 

1   tablespoon  flour. 


SOUP  227 

(a)  Cook  and  strain  tomatoes,  obtaining  one-half  cup 
juice. 

(b)  Melt  butter,  add  the  onion  and  brown  slightly;  add 
the  flour ;  pour  on  gradually  the  boiling  water  or  stock. 

Blend  (a)  and  (b)  ;  cook  thoroughly,  season  with  salt  and 
pepper,  strain  and  serve. 

Note. —  Two  tablespoons  of  cream  may  be  added. 

Beef  or  mutton  broth  strained  may  be  used  in  place  of 
water  if  desired. 

CREAM  OF  TOMATO  SOUP  (FOR  THE  DIABETIC),  224  CALORIES 
(Two   Servings.) 
ys  cup  tomatoes.  y2  teaspoon  butter. 

1  >lice  onion.  y2  teaspoon  Gum  Gluten  Flour. 

1  cup  milk.  Salt,  pepper. 

Stew  and  strain  the  tomatoes  and  onion,  reheat  and  add 
a  tiny  pinch  of  soda.  When  effervescing  subsides  add  milk. 
Melt  the  butter,  add  the  flour  and  pour  in  gradually  the  hot 
stock.     Season  and  cook  thoroughly. 

MOCK  BISQUE  SOUP,  324  CALORIES 

(Individual  Rule.) 
y2  cup  tomatoes.  1  tablespoon  butter. 

%  saltepoon  soda.  %     tablespoons     flour     or     corn- 

Salt  and  pepper.  starch. 

1  cup  milk. 

(a)  Steam  tomatoes  until  soft  enough  to  strain  juice; 
strain,  add  soda  and  allow  gases  to  pass  off.  This  prevents 
the  acid  of  the  tomato  curdling  the  milk. 

(b)  Scald  milk ;  melt  butter  in  quart  size  saucepan,  add  the 
flour  and  pour  on  gradually  the  scalding  milk.  Cook  thor- 
oughly, stirring  carefully. 

Blend  (a)  and  (b)  ;  reheat,  season  to  taste,  strain  and 
serve  immediately  with  croutons  or  crack* 

DRIED  FRTJIT  SOUP.  209  CALORIES  I 
*4  cup   dried  apricots.  1  cup  cold  water. 

*4  cup  prunes.  Sugar  to  taste. 

1  Without   sugar. 


228  ANIMAL  FOODS 

Pick  over  and  wash  fruit  until  perfectly  clean.  Cook  in 
the  water  until  very  soft.  Strain  and  squeeze  out  all  the 
juice;  sweeten  to  taste.     Thicken  if  liked. 

Thickening. —  1  slightly  rounding  teaspoon  rice  flour  to 
1  cup  liquid.  Cook  twenty  minutes  to  remove  raw  taste  of 
starch. 

PANOPEPTON  BOUILLON  — HOT,  30  CALORIES 

Put  one  tablespoonful  of  Panopepton  into  a  small  teacup; 
fill  the  cup  nearly  full  of  boiling  water,  and  flavor  to  taste 
with  celery  salt,  or  plain  salt  and  pepper ;  stir,  and  sip  slowly. 
This  is  a  very  nourishing  and  pleasantly  stimulating  drink. 

VICTORIA  SOTTP    (WITH  BROTH),  619   CALORIES 

(Two   Servings.) 
y2  cup  lean  chicken  meat.  1  cup  rich  milk. 

1  cup  strong  chicken  broth.  ^4  cup  cracker  crumbs. 

y2  teaspoon  salt.  Yolks  2  eggs. 

Pepper. 

Soak  the  crumbs  in  a  little  of  the  milk.  Cook  yolks  of 
eggs  in  hot  waj;er  until  hard.  Chop  the  chicken,  mix  with  the 
soaked  cracker  crumbs,  press  the  hard-cooked  yolks  through 
a  coarse  strainer,  add  the  seasonings  and  the  broth  and  cook 
all  together  five  minutes  over  direct  heat  or  one-half  hour  in 
double  boiler.     Serve  hot. 

CONSOMME 

Make  a  beef  or  any  broth  according  to  the  strength  re- 
quired. While  cooking  skim  frequently,  and  when  reduced 
to  one-third  of  its  quantity  take  from  saucepan  and  strain; 
season  well,  cool  quickly  and  remove  fat.  Eeturn  to  sauce- 
pan, add  a  few  thin  slices  of  onion  and  one-half  pound  of 
lean  beef  chopped  fine  and  clear. 

To  Clear  Soup.  To  each  quart  of  stock  add  the  slightly 
beaten  white  and  broken  shell  of  one  egg  and  a  few  shavings 
of  lemon  rind.  Place  on  front  of  range,  and  stir  constantly 
until  boiling  point  is  reached;  boil  two  minutes.  Set  back 
where  it  may  simmer  twenty  minutes ;  remove  scum  and  strain 
through  double  thickness  of  cheese-cloth. 


SOUP  ACCOMPAXIMENTS  229 

OYSTER    SOUP 

See  chapter  "  Oysters  "  for  recipe.     Pages  171-172. 

OYSTER  STEW 
See  "  Oysters  "  for  recipe.     Page  172. 

CLAM  SOUP 
See  chapter  "  Clams  "  for  recipe.     Page  174. 

CLAM  BOUILLON 
See  chapter  "  Clams  "  for  recipe.     Page  174. 

CLAM   BOUILLON   BISQUE 
See  chapter  "  Clams  "  for  recipe.     Page  175. 

MEAT  SOUPS 
Foundation  for  same,  see  chapter  "  Broths."     Page  219. 

SOUP  ACCOMPANIMENTS 

GLUTEN   BISCUIT   CRISPS 
1  =  25  Calories. 
Serve  plain  or  butter  slightly  and  bake  until  heated  through, 

CRISPED  CRACKERS 
1  Saltine  =  15  Calories. 
Split  common  crackers  or  use  saltines.     Put  in  pan  and 
bake    until    thoroughly    heated.     Serve    plain    or    buttered 
slightly. 

TOASTED    CRACKERS 
Butter  crackers,  put  in  pan  and  bake  until  a  delicate  brown. 
Serve  on  small  plate  with  doily. 

CROUTONS 

1    ounce    (1    slice)    bread  =  73   Calories. 
Take  a  slice  of  stale  bread  about  half  an  inch  thick,  cut 
into  half-inch  cubes;  put  them  in  a  shallow  pan  ami  dry  thor- 
oughly, then  brown  delicately.     Stir  often  to  brown  eyenly. 


230  ANIMAL  FOODS 

Serve  on  small  plate  with  doily.     A  little  butter  may  be 
spread  on  the  bread  if  desired. 

NOODLES  FOE  SOTJP  (FOR  THE  DIABETIC),  596  CALORIES 

1  egg.  5  ounces  Gum  Gluten  Flour. 

1  tablespoon  milk. 

Beat  the  egg  very  light,  add  the  milk  and  Gum  Gluten. 
Eoll  very  thin  and  cut  in  straws.     Cook  in  any  soup. 

GLUTEN  CRISP    (FOR   THE   DIABETIC) 

See  chapter  "  Toast "  for  recipe.     Page  256. 


CHAPTER  X 
VEGETABLE  OR  PLANT  FOODS 

The  important  food  products  derived  from  the  vegetable 
kingdom  are  the  Cereals,  Legumes  —  Boots  and  Tubers  — 
Green  Vegetables  —  Fruits  —  Xuts  —  Fungi  —  Lichens. 

Composition.  Vegetable  or  plant  foods  contain  the  five 
proximate  principles,  namely,  proteins,  fats,  carbohydrates, 
water  and  mineral  matter.  In  this  they  resemble  animal 
foods.  The  food  principles  in  the  two  classes  are,  however, 
in  different  proportions,  animal  foods  being  rich  in  proteins 
or  fats,  and  seldom  containing  carbohydrate  in  appreciable 
amounts;  while  vegetable  foods  are,  as  a  rule,  rich  in  carbo- 
hydrates, and  poor  in  proteins  and  fats. 

These  differences  are  clearly  shown  in  the  following  table : 

Pro.  Fat.  Carb. 
%  %  % 
Lean  round  of  beef.     Free  from  all  vis- 
ible fat    23.2  2.5 

Lean  round  of  beef.     Very  fat 16.1  23.1  .... 

Wheat  flour    (entire  wheat) 13.8  1.9  71.9 

Potatoes    1.8  0.1  14.7 

Apples     1.6  2.2  66.1 

The  legumes  and  most  nuts  are  exceptional,  in  containing 
high  percentages  of  protein  or  fat  or  both,  but  unlike  meats, 
they  also  contain  a  very  considerable  amount  of  carbohydrate, 
as  shown  by  the  following  analyses : 

Pro.  Fat.  Carb. 

%  %  % 

Beans,    dried    22.5  1.8  59.6 

Peas     24.6  1.0  62.0 

Almonds    21.0  54.9  17.3 

Walnuts    16.6  63.4  16.1 

231 


232      VEGETABLE  OR  PLANT  FOODS 

Protein.1  (1)  Gluten  of  wheat  and  some  of  the  other 
cereals. 

(2)  Legumin  found  in  legumes. 

(3)  Vegetable  albumin  as  found  in  some  vegetables. 
Carbohydrates  of  Vegetables  2  include  —  starch,  sugar,  veg- 
etable gums  and  cellulose. 

Fats  of  Vegetables  3  are  in  the  form  of  oils  and  are  similar 
in  composition  to  animal  fats,  but  are  more  easily  digested 
and  equal  in  nutritive  value. 

Water.  Dry  vegetable  foods,  such  as  cereals,  dried  beans 
and  peas,  nuts,  dried  fruits,  etc.,  do  not,  as  a  rule,  contain 
as  much  water  as  animal  foods,  but  fresh  vegetables  and  fruits 
contain  frequently  from  90  per  cent,  to  95  per  cent,  of  water. 

This  gives  them  a  low  nutritive  value  compared  with  their 
bulk.  In  cooking,  water  is  added  to  most  dry  vegetable  foods, 
so  that  when  served  they  resemble  fresh  or  succulent  vegetable 
foods  in  this  respect. 

Mineral  Matter.4"  All  vegetable  foods  contain  valuable  ash 
constituents.  In  cereals,  these  are  largely  in  the  outer  part 
of  the  grain, .  and  are  lost  if  the  entire  grain  is  not  utilized. 
Thus  polished  rice  is  much  poorer  in  ash  constituents  than 
unpolished;  and  white  flour  than  entire  wheat  flour.  Fresh 
vegetables  and  fruits  are  desirable  in  the  dietary  for  their 
salts  and  organic  acids. 

Digestibility.  Vegetable  foods  are  less  easily  digested  than 
animal  foods,  owing  to  their  complex  composition,  and  espe- 
cially to  the  intimate  mixture  of  the  nutrients  with  cellulose. 
This  prevents  the  digestive  ferments  acting  readily  upon  the 
food-stuffs  so  that  they  are  digested  more  slowly  and  less  com- 
pletely than  animal  foods.  Although  cellulose  is  indigestible, 
its  presence  under  normal  conditions  in  proper  amounts,  is 
advantageous,5  but  it  should  be  thoroughly  softened  by  cook- 
ing, except  in  the  case  of  tender  young  vegetables  such  as 
lettuce. 

1  Protein,   see  p.   10. 

2  Carbohydrates,   see  p.  16. 

3  Fats  of  vegetables,   see  p.   20. 
'Mineral   matter,  see  p.  31. 

5  See  p.  17. 


CEREALS  233 

Comparative  Value  of  Animal  and  Vegetable  Diets.  An 
animal  did  is  concentrated  and  easily  digested.  If  the  ani- 
mal foods  taken  are  eggs  and  milk,  no  serious  objection  can 
be  urged  against  them,  i  xcept  that  they  lack  bulk.  The  food 
is  so  fully  absorbed  that  the  large  intestine  has  no  stimulus 
to  action  and  no  material  for  its  muscles  to  act  upon,  and 
serious  complications  are  likely  to  arise  from  constipation. 
If  the  animal  food  is  largely  meat,  it  is  undesirable,  not  only 
for  the  reason  above  mentioned,  but  because  excessive  quan- 
tities of  nitrogenous  extractives  are  taken,  which  are  likely 
to  cause  uric  acid  disorders  and  other  disturbances,  and  also 
because  important  mineral  salts  are  lacking  (such  as  calcium, 
which  carnivorous  animals  get  by  eating  bone)  ;  and  because 
the  acids  formed  from  the  protein  (phosphoric  and  sulphuric) 
tend  to  deprive  the  body  of  salts  already  present  in  the  tissues. 

A  strict  vegetable  diet,  on  the  other  hand,  while  free  from 
these  objections,  is  necessarily  very  bulky,  owing  to  the  high 
percentages  of  water  and  cellulose,  and  to  the  fact  that  extra 
allowance  must  be  made  because  it  is  less  perfectly  absorbed. 
Unless  special  care  is  taken,  a  vegetable  diet  is  also  likely  to 
be  low  in  protein.  Legumes  and  nuts  must  form  a  consid- 
erable part  of  the  dietary  to  provide  this.  When  eggs,  milk 
and  milk  products  are  added  to  the  vegetable  foods,  the  diet 
becomes  mixed,  and  these  objections  no  longer  hold. 

An  Ideal  Diet  contains  a  mixture  of  animal  and  vegetable 
foods,  so  that  protein,  fat,  carbohydrate  and  mineral  matter 
are  supplied  in  proper  proportions  and  in  available  forms,  and 
sufficient  bulk  is  afforded  for  proper  intestinal  action. 

CEREALS 

GRTJELS  —  BREAKFAST     FOODS  —  STARCHY     JELLIES  —  MACA- 
RONI 

Wherever  it  is  possible  to  grow  grains,  thi  tuples  of 

man's  diet.  No  food  products  of  the  vegetable  kingdom  equal 
them  in  importance.  They  are  cheaply  and  easily  grown,  and 
contain  all  the  food  principles  in  unusually  good  proportion. 


234      VEGETABLE  OR  PLANT  FOODS 

They  can  be  kept  for  long  periods,  are  not  difficult  to  cook, 
and  furnish  a  palatable  and  digestible  article  of  diet.  Cereals 
alone  supply  nearly  one-fourth  of  the  total  food  in  a  large 
number  of  the  American  families.  Wheat,  corn,  rye,  oats, 
barley,  rice  and  buckwheat  are  in  commonest  use. 

The  natural  grain  is  surrounded  by  an  indigestible  husk 
which  is  always  removed.  Grains  simply  hulled  or  husked, 
and  slightly  crushed  are  called  groats  or  grits;  more  finely 
crushed,  they  constitute  meal ;  ground  to  a  powder  and  sifted 
they  form  flour. 

Composition.  Cereals  contain  all  the  food  principles,  with 
considerable  cellulose,  especially  in  the  outer  skin,  which  forms 
bran  in  milling.  They  are  comparatively  dry  materials,  hav- 
ing an  average  water  content  of  about  10  per  cent.  The  pro- 
tein content  is  fairly  high,  averaging  12  per  cent.-13  per  cent.1 
The  fat  -is  never  large  in  amount,  and  varies  within  wide 
limits,  being  greatest  in  corn  and  oats  and  their  products,  and 
lowest  in  rice. 

The  nutrients  in  largest  proportion  are  the  carbohydrates, 
which  frequently  constitute  75  per  cent,  of  the  whole.  The 
ash  content  is  as  large  as  in  most  common  food  materials,  and 
some  of  the  grains,  as  oats  and  wheat,  are  especially  valuable 
for  their  soluble  phosphates  of  calcium,  potassium,  magne- 
sium, etc. 

The  chemical  composition  of  some  of  the  most  common 
cereals  is  shown  in  the  following  table : 

Carbohydrates 

Water  Protein  Fat      Starch,   etc.  Crude  Fiber  Ash 

Per  Cent.  Per  Cent.  Per  Cent.  Per  Cent.  Per  Cent.  Per  Cent. 

Barley     10.9  12.4  1.8              69.8              2.7              2.4 

Corn    (maize)     ...    9.3  9.9  2.8               74.9               1.4               1.5 

Oats      11.0  11.8  5.0               59.7               9.5               3.0 

Rice     12.4  7.4  0.4               79.2               0.2               0.4 

Wheat  (spring)   ..10.4  12.5  2.2              71.2               1.8              1.9 

It  will  be  seen  that  corn  is  relatively  rich  in  fat;  oats  in 
both  protein  and  fat;  rye  and  wheat  in  protein  with  a  mod- 
erate amount  of  fat;  rice  is  notably  free  from  crude  fiber 
and  fat,  and  also  very  low  in  ash. 

1  For  further  information,  see  "Cereal  Breakfast  Foods,"  Farmer's  Bulle- 
tin No.  249,  Agricultural  Dept.,  Washington,  D.   C. 


CEREALS  235 

Cereal  Breakfast  Foods  are  very  similar  in  composition  to 
the  grains  from  which  they  are  made. 

Macaroni  is  much  like  wheat  breakfast  foods  in  composition 
and  food  value. 

Principles  in  Cooking.  Cooking  improves  cereals  in  many 
ways.  For  the  average  person,  proper  cooking  has  almost  as 
much  to  do  with  the  nutriment  finally  obtained  as  the  pro- 
portions of  nutrients  originally  present.  Flavor  and  appear- 
ance are  improved,  with  the  gain  in  digestibility  that  comes 
from  appetizing  foods  which  stimulate  the  flow  of  digestive 
juices.  Cooking  to  convert  nutrients  into  more  digestible 
forms,  is  very  important  in  the  case  of  cereals  which  contain 
so  much  starch;  and  since  the  starch  in  these  foods  is  sur- 
rounded by  cell-walls  of  crude  fiber  (largely  cellulose)  upon 
which  the  digestive  juices  are  unable  to  act,  these  walls  must 
be  broken  down.  Part  of  this  disintegration  may  be  accom- 
plished in  milling,  and  part  by  thorough  mastication  but  com- 
plete digestion  of  the  starch  is  assured  only  by  thorough 
cooking. 

Parching  is  one  of  the  simplest  methods  of  cooking  grains. 
The  invisible  moisture  in  the  cells  is  expanded  by  the  heat, 
and  the  cell  walls  burst.  Some  of  the  starch  is  also  made 
soluble  or  changed  to  dextrin  by  this  process.  The  digestibil- 
ity of  protein  seems  to  be  lessened  by  cooking  at  high  tem- 
peratures, but  the  starch  can  be  made  almost  perfectly  di- 
gestible. 

The  softening  of  cellulose  h  more  perfectly  accomplished 
by  cooking  for  a  long  time  in  the  presence  of  a  large  amount 
of  moisture,  as  in  steaming,  or  cooking  with  water  or  milk 
in  a  double  boiler.  The  glutinous  material  which  surrounds 
the  starch  grains  and  prevents  their  digestion  is  disintegrated 
so  that  the  digestive  juices  can  act.  In  general,  the  more 
crude  fiber  a  cereal  contains,  the  longer  it  should  be  cooked. 
Reference  to  the  table  (p.  234)  shows  that  oats  requires 
more  cooking  than  rice;  whole  or  partially  crushed  grains 
than  finely  ground  ones.  There  U  danger  in  undercooked 
cereals,  not  only  of  loss  of  valuable  nutriment  through  failure 


236  VEGETABLE  OR  PLANT  FOODS 

of  digestion,  but  in  irritation  of  the  alimentary  tract.  This 
should  be  especially  remembered  in  preparing  partially  cooked 
breakfast  foods. 

When  cereals  are  cooked  in  water  some  of  it  is  absorbed, 
and  soluble  substances  in  the  food  pass  into  the  remaining 
water.  If  this  is  thrown  away,  as  when  rice  is  boiled  in  a 
large  quantity  of  water  and  subsequently  drained  dry,  a  con- 
siderable part  of  the  nutriment  is  lost.  Eice  water  frequently 
contains  enough  dissolved  starch  to  form  a  jelly  on  cooling. 
For  this  reason  steaming  is  a  preferable  method.  Practical 
application  of  the  fact  that  certain  nutrients  in  cereals  are 
soluble  is  made  in  the  preparation  of  all  kinds  of  cereal 
waters  and  starchy  jellies.      (See  Eecipes,  pp.  124-244.) 

Gruels  are  thin  porridges  made  from  flour  or  other  finely 
ground  grain  products,  with  either  water  or  milk.  They  are 
cooked  for  a  long  time  to  insure  the  starch  being  changed  to 
soluble  starch,  or  even  partially  dextrinized.  Time  for  cook- 
ing should  therefore  be  conscientiously  kept  by  the  clock. 

By  passing  the  material  through  a  cheese-cloth  or  sieve,  the 
coarser,  undissolved  portions  are  removed,  and  the  smooth 
product  does  not  irritate  weakened  digestive  organs;  hence 
this  method  is  desirable  for  invalids  and  young  children. 

In  cooking  all  cereal  products,  the  following  points  should 
be  observed: 

Use  a  double  boiler. 

Observe  carefully  the  correct  proportions  of  cereal,  water 
and  salt. 

Cook  at  boiling  temperature  (212°  F.). 

Watch  the  time  by  the  clock,  and  always  cook  the  full  time 
prescribed,  preferably  longer. 

Serve  attractively. 

Improper  cooking  and  poor  serving  are  largely  responsible 
for  unpopularity  of  cereal  foods. 

Digestibility.  The  digestibility  of  cereals  is  greatly  in- 
fluenced by  the  mode  of  preparation  and  the  thoroughness  of 
insalivation.  For  the  normal  healthy  person  cereal  foods  are 
yery  wholesome.     In  general,  about  90  per  cent,  or  more  of 


CEREALS  237 

the  organic  matter  is  assimilated.  The  carbohydrates  are 
most  completely  digested;  the  protein  shows  a  wide  variation, 
hut  is  less  perfectly  assimilated  than  the  other  nutrients, 
owing  partly  to  the  fact  that  it  is  often  hardened  in  cooking 
and  partly  that  it  is  intimately  bound  up  with  cellulose  in 
the  bran  coats.  For  this  reason  white  flour  shows  a  higher 
degree  of  digestibility  for  protein,  than  do  whole  wheat  prepa- 
rations. 

Among  cereal  breakfast  foods,  rolled  wheat  ranks  first  in 
digestibility,  rolled  oats  next,  and  corn  preperations  among 
the  lowest.  The  partially  digested  or  ready-to-eat  cereals 
supply  more  digestible  material  than  the  plain  grains  when 
well  cooked. 

Nutritive  Value.  Cereals  supply  actual  digestible  nutri- 
ments to  the  body  more  cheaply  than  any  other  class  of  foods 
except  the  dried  legumes.  All  animal  foods,  especially  meats, 
are  more  expensive,  even  as  sources  of  protein,  than  cereals. 
A  glance  at  their  composition  shows  that  they  are  chiefly  fuel 
foods,  because  of  their  high  carbohydrate  content.  Their 
cost  varies  with  the  cost  of  labor  and  fuel  in  preparing  the 
food.  The  comparatively  expensive  ready-to-eat  breakfast 
foods  do  not  yield  any  extra  nutritive  value.  Their  only  ad- 
vantages are  pleasant  flavor  and  ease  of  serving.  Cereal 
products  yield  on  the  average  between  1600  and  1700  calories 
per  pound.     Thus: 

1  lb.  flour  furnishes  1665  calories. 

1  lb.  entire  wheat  Hour  furnishes  1675  calories. 

1  lb.  corn  meal  furnishes  1655  calories. 

1  lb.  cornstarch  furnishes   1675  calories. 

1  lb.  wheatlet  furnishes  1685  calories. 

1  lb.  hominy  furnishes  1650  calories. 

1  lb.  granulated  corn  meal  furnishes  1665  calories. 

1  lb.  wheat  germ  furnishes    1605   calories. 

1  lb.  tapioca  furnishes  1650  calories. 

Care  of  Cereals.  Cereals  must  be  kept  in  a  cool,  dry  place; 
warmth  will  favor  the  development  of  the  maggot  eggs;  and 
moisture,  when  absorbed,  makes  them  musty. 


239  VEGETABLE  OR  PLANT  FOODS 


GRUELS 

ARROWROOT   GRUEL,  205  CALORIES  i 

(Individual  Rule.) 
2  teaspoons  arrowroot.  1  cup  boiling  water  or  milk. 

2  tablespoons  cold  water.  Salt. 

Sugar,  lemon  juice,  wine  or  brandy  as  required. 

Blend  the  arrowroot  and  cold  water  to  a  smooth  paste. 
Add  to  the  boiling  water  or  milk.  Cook  in  double  boiler  two 
hours.     Add  salt.     Strain  and  serve  hot. 

Arrowroot  is  the  purest  form  of  starch,  and  beneficial  in 
case  of  diarrhoea  if  not  given  too  hot. 

BARLEY  GRUEL,  248  CALORIES 

(Individual  Rule.) 

1  tablespoon  barley  flour.  1  cup  scalded  milk. 

2  tablespoons  cold  milk.  Salt. 

Blend  the  barley  flour  with  the  cold  milk  and  stir  into 
the  scalding  milk.  Cook  in  double  boiler  twenty  minutes. 
Season  with  salt  to  taste,  and  add  sugar  if  desired.     Strain. 

BARLEY  GRUEL  OR  JELLY,  142  CALORIES  i 

(Individual  Rule.) 

1  tablespoon  barley  flour.  y2  cup  milk    (if  desired). 

2  tablespoons  cold  water.  Salt. 

1  cup  boiling  water. 

Blend  carefully  the  barley  flour  and  the  cold  water;  add 
gradually  to  the  boiling  water  and  cook  twenty  minutes.  Add 
milk  and  salt  to  taste,  reheat  to  boiling  point,  strain  and 
serve  or  bottle  for  keeping. 

Note. —  For  jelly  omit  the  milk  and  strain. 

RICE  OR  OAT  GRUEL 

Eice  or  oat  gruel  may  be  made  in  same  way  as  Barley 
Gruel  No.  I  or  II,  using  the  prepared  flour  for  the  purpose. 

BARLEY  GRUEL  (WITH  BROTH),  308  CALORIES 

(Two  Servings.) 

2  cups  beef  broth.  2  tablespoons  cold  water. 
2  tablespoons  barley  flour.  1  saltspoon  salt. 

1  Calculated  with  milk. 


GRUELS  239 

Mix  barley  flour  and  salt  with  the  cold  water  to  form  a 
smooth  paste.  Add  gradually  to  the  boiling  stock  and  boil 
one-half  hour.     Strain  and  serve  very  hot. 

CRACKER  GRUEL,  243  CALORIES 

(Individual  Rule.) 
2  tablespoons  sifted  cracker  1  cup  scalded  milk. 

crumbs. 
%  teaspoon  salt. 

Pour  hot  milk  gradually  onto  cracker  crumbs,  stirring  con- 
stantly. Cook  in  double  boiler  five  minutes  or  two  minutes 
over  direct  heat. 

Note. —  Before  preparing  crumbs,  crackers  may  be  baked 
in  a  slow  oven  until  a  delicate  brown;  or  graham  crackers 
may  be  used.  A  convenient  way  to  prepare  the  crumbs  is  to 
put  them  several  times  through  a  meat  chopper  and  then  sift. 

FLOUR  GRUEL  OR  THICKENED  MILK,  212  CALORIES 

(Individual  Rule.) 
%  cup  scalded  milk.  Speck  salt. 

14  cup  cold  milk.  1  dozen  raisins. 

y2  tablespoon  flour. 

Scald  the  milk.  Mix  the  flour  with  the  cold  milk  to  make 
a  smooth  mixture,  and  stir  into  the  scalding  milk.  Cook  in 
a  double  boiler  one-half  hour  or  on  back  of  stove  in  a  sauce- 
pan. 

Stone  and  quarter  the  raisins,  then  add  water  enough  to 
cover;  cook  slowly  until  water  has  all  boiled  away.  Add  to 
gruel  just  before  serving.  Add  salt.  Strain  and  serve,  or  it 
may  be  eaten  with  the  raisins  in  it. 

Note. —  This  gruel  may  be  made  without  the  raisins. 
Xever  use  raisins  in  bowel  troubles. 

FARINA   GRUEL,    102   CALORIES 
(Individual  Rule.) 
y2  tablespoon  farina.  y2  cup  scalded  milk. 

14  cup  cold  water.  Salt. 

y2  cup  boiling  water. 


240      VEGETABLE  OR  PLANT  FOODS 

Mix  the  farina  with  the  cold  water,  add  to  the  boiling 
water  and  boil  thirty  minutes.  Add  the  scalding  milk. 
Taste  and  season  properly.  A  little  sugar  may  be  added  if 
desired,  or  an  egg  may  be  beaten  and  the  gruel  poured  into  it. 


GLUTEN  GRTTEL  OR  PORRIDGE  (FOR  THE  DIABETIC),  185  CAL- 
ORIES i 

(Individual  Rule.) 

y2  tablespoon  Gum  Gluten  Flour.  1  cup  hot  water  or  milk. 
1  tablespoon  cold  water.  Salt. 

Add  cold  water  slowly  to  Gluten  Flour  to  form  a  thin 
paste,  then  add  gradually  to  boiling  water,  while  stirring  con- 
stantly; cook  fifteen  minutes.  Season  with  salt.  Is  an  ex- 
cellent food  for  the  sick ;  for  baby  food  it  may  be  sweetened. 

INDIAN  MEAL  GRTTEL,  48   CALORIES  2 

1  tablespoon  Indian  meal.  2  tablespoons  cold  water. 

y2  tablespoon  flour.  2  cups  boiling  water. 

%  teaspoon  salt.  Milk  or  cream. 

Blend  the  meal,  flour  and  salt  with  the  cold  water  to  make 
a  smooth  paste,  and  stir  into  the  boiling  water.  Boil  gently 
one  hour  and  a  half.  Dilute  with  hot  water,  milk  or  cream. 
Strain. 

OATMEAL  GRTTEL  NO.  I,  70  CALORIES  2 

14  cup  coarse  oatmeal.  1%  cup  boiling  water. 

y2  teaspoon  salt.  Milk  or  cream. 

Add  oatmeal  and  salt  to  the  boiling  water,  and  cook  four  to 
five  hours  in  a  double  boiler,  adding  more  water  if  necessary. 
Strain  and  dilute  with  hot  milk  to  make  it  of  the  right  con- 
sistency.    Reheat  and  serve. 

Note. —  Sugar,  and  a  little  port  wine  may  be  added  if  al- 
lowed and  desired. 

1  Calculated  with   milk. 

2  Without  milk  or  cream. 


GRUELS  241 

OATMEAL  GRUEL,  NO.  II,  70  CALORIES  » 
y4  cup  rolled  oats.  %  teaspoon  salt. 

lys  cup  boiling  water.  Milk  or  cream. 

Mix  the  oats,  water  and  salt  in  top  of  double  boiler.  Cook 
over  direct  heat  five  minutes  and  then  over  hot  water  one 
hour.  Strain,  bring  to  the  boiling  point  and  add  milk  or 
cream  as  desired. 

OATMEAL  GRUEL  NO.  Ill,   140  CALORIES  i 

Y2  cup  coarse  oatmeal.  Salt. 

2  cups  water.  Milk. 

Pound  the  oatmeal  in  a  mortar  until  it  is  mealy,  then  put 
it  into  a  tumbler  and  fill  it  with  cold  water.  Stir,  and  pour 
off  the  mealy  water  into  a  saucepan.  Fill  tumbler  again,  stir 
and  pour  off,  and  repeat  until  the  above  quantity  of  water  is 
exhausted.  Boil  the  oatmeal  water  thirty  minutes,  stirring 
frequently.  Season  with  salt  to  taste.  Thin  with  milk  or 
cream  to  desired  consistency. 

EGG  AND  SHERRY  GRUEL,  388  CALORIES 
(Individual  Rule.) 
1  egg.  1  tablespoon  sugar. 

1  wineglass  sherry.  Grating  of  nutmeg. 

1  teaspoon  lemon  juice.  1  cup  smooth  hot  gruel. 

Beat  the  egg;  add  wine,  lemon,  nutmeg  and  pour  on  the 
hot  gruel. 

CAUDLE,  404  CALORIES  « 

y4  cup  Scotch  oatmeal.  Juice  y2  lemon. 

2  quarts  water.  Sugar,      cinnamon,     brandy,     or 
Salt  to  taste.  wine. 

y2   cup   raisins. 

Boil  oatmeal,  water  and  salt  four  or  five  hours.  Strain; 
if  too  thick  add  a  little  hot  water  and  whip  it  with  a  wooden 
spoon.  Remove  seeds  from  raisins,  cook  a  short  time  in  hot 
water,  and  add  raisins  and  water  to  above.  Add  lemon  juice, 
and  sugar,  cinnamon,  brandy  or  wine  to  taste. 

1  Without  milk  or  cream. 

2  Without  sugar  or   liquor. 


242  VEGETABLE  OR  PLANT  FOODS 

FLOUR   BALI   OR   BOILED   OR   BROWNED  FLOUR   GRUEL    (FOR 
TEETHING  CHILDREN) 

Tie  one  cup  of  wheat  flour  in  a  thick  cloth,  and  boil  it  in 
one  quart  of  water  for  three  hours;  remove  the  cloth  and  ex- 
pose the  flour  to  the  air,  or  heat  until  it  is  hard.  Grate  from 
it  when  wanted.  Put  one  tablespoonful  into  half  a  pint  of 
new  milk,  and  stir  over  the  fire  until  it  comes  to  a  boil ;  add 
a  pinch  of  salt  and  a  tablespoon  of  cold  water,  and  serve. 
This  gruel  is  excellent  for  children  afflicted  with  summer  com- 
plaint. Or  brown  a  tablespoon  of  flour  in  the  oven,  or  on 
top  of  the  stove  in  a  baking  tin ;  feed  a  few  pinches  at  a  time 
.  to  a  child,  and  it  will  often  check  diarrhoea. 

BREAKFAST  FOODS 

Fruits  served  with  breakfast  foods  make  them  more  ap- 
petizing. 

Follow  directions  on  package  for  preparing  patent  or  pre- 
pared cereals,  allowing  double  the  given  time  for  cooking. 

HASTY  PUDDING  OR  CORNMEAL  MUSH,  182  CALORIES  i 

(Individual  Rule.) 
14  cup  cornmeal.  %  cup  cold  milk  or  water. 

y2  tablespoon  flour.  y2  cup  boiling  water. 

^4  teaspoon  salt. 

Mix  the  meal,  flour  and  salt  with  the  cold  milk  or  water; 
when  smooth,  stir  into  the  boiling  water.  Cook  in  a  double 
boiler  one  hour  or  more;  or  over  direct  heaf  '  e-half  hour. 
Serve  with  cream  and  sugar,  turn  into  tins  to  .^ol  if  wanted 
for  sauteing.  Cut  into  slices,  dip  in  flour  and  saute  in  drip- 
pings or  butter. 

GLUTEN   BREAKFAST    FOOD    (FOR   THE    DIABETIC),    665    CAL« 

ORIES 

(Two  Servings.) 
y2    cup    Gum    Gluten    Breakfast    2  cups  cold  water. 
Food.  Salt. 

Would  suggest  partly  cooking  the  Breakfast  Food  the  day 

1  Calculated  with  milk. 


BREAKFAST  FOODS  243 

before  using,  as  a  long  cooking  improves  the  quality.  Put 
the  food  in  the  water  and  cook  over  direct  heat  for  fifteen 
minutes,  then  put  in  double  boiler  and  cook  for  about  one 
hour,  adding  salt  to  taste  when  nearly  done.  Ii  is  then  neces- 
sary to  cook  it  but  twenty  minutes  in  the  morning.  Serve 
with  cream. 

HOMINY  AND  DATES,  378  CALORIES 

*4  cup  fine  hominy.  *4   teaspoon   salt. 

1^  cups  boiling  water.  6  Dromedary  Dates. 

Put  the  hominy,  water  and  salt  in  top  of  double  boiler  and 
cook  two  hours.  Add  more  boiling  water  if  mush  seems  stiff 
and  thick.  Stone  and  chop  the  dates  and  add  to  the  mush 
about  three  minutes  before  serving.  Dates  are  delicious 
served  with  rice  or  combined  with  any  cereal. 

OATMEAL  MUSH  FOR  CHILDREN  AND  INVALIDS,  880  CALORIES 

(Four  Servings.) 
1  cup  granulated  oatmeal.  1  scant  quart  boiling  water. 

1  teaspoon  salt. 

Put  the  oatmeal  and  salt  in  a  double  boiler,  pour  on  the 
boiling  water  and  cook  three  or  four  hours.  Remove  the 
cover  just  before  serving,  and  stir  with  a  fork  to  let  the 
steam  escape.  If  the  water  in  the  lower  boiler  be  strongly 
salted,  the  oatmeal  will  cook  more  quickly.  Serve  with  sugar 
or  salt  and  cream  or  milk. 

Note. —  Baked  sour  apples,  apple  sauce  and  apple  jelly  are 
delicious  eaten  with  oatmeal.  They  should  be  served  with  the 
mush,  and  sugar  and  cream  poured  over  the  whole.  They 
give  the  acid  flavor  which  so  many  crave  in  the  morning. 
Coarse  oatmeal  is  not  advisable  in  any  form  of  water  brash, 
acidity  or  bowel  irritations.  It  often  causes  eruptions  on  the 
skin  in  warm  weather. 

BOILED  RICE 

See  "  Rice  Puddings  "  for  recipe.     Page  297. 


244      VEGETABLE  OR  PLANT  FOODS 

STEAMED  RICE 

See  "  Eice  Puddings  "  for  recipe.     Page  298. 
STARCHY  JELLIES 

BARLEY  JELLY,  270  CALORIES 

(Three  Servings.) 

3  tablespoons  pearl  barley.  y2  saltspoon  salt. 
1  quart  cold  water. 

Soak  barley  over  night,  drain  and  add  the  quart  of  fresh 
water;  add  salt;  and  cook  in  double  boiler  steadily  for  four 
hours  down  to  one  pint,  adding  water  from  time  to  time; 
strain  through  muslin.  When  cold  this  makes  a  thick  jelly. 
Two  tablespoons  dissolved  in  eight  ounces  of  warmed  and 
sweetened  milk  may  be  given  at  single  feeding  for  infants. 

Note. —  Oatmeal  wheaten  grits  and  rice  grains  may  be  used 
in  same  way. 

Jelly  made  with  Barley  Flour,  see  Barley  Gruel,  p.  238. 

RICE  JELLY,  181   CALORIES 

(Three  Servings.) 
ly2  tablespoons  rice.  %  cup  milk. 

1  cup  cold  water.  1  white  of  egg. 

Speck  salt. 

Wash  the  rice  and  soak  in  cold  water  two  hours,  drain  off 
the  water  and  add  the  milk,  cook  in  double  boiler  one  and  one- 
half  hours.  Strain  through  a  fine  sieve.  Pour  into  molds, 
chill  and  serve  with  fruit  juice  or  cream  and  sugar. 

TAPIOCA  JELLY,  200   CALORIES 

(Three  Servings.) 

4  tablespoons  pearl  tapioca.  %  cup  boiling  water. 
1  cup  cold  water.                               Speck  salt. 

Soak  tapioca  in  cold  water  three  hours;  add  boiling 
water  and  salt;  cook  in  double  boiler  two  and  one-fourth 
hours.  Serve  hot,  plain  with  cream,  wine  and  powdered 
sugar,  or  flavor  while  hot  with  lemon  juice,  and  chill. 

CORNSTARCH    JELLIES 

See  "  Cornstarch  Pudding  "  for  recipe.     Page  295. 


MACARONI  245 

MACARONI 

BOILED  MACARONI,  98  CALORIES  i 

(Individual  Rule.) 
14  cup  macaroni.  1  teaspoon  salt. 

3  cups  boiling  water.  Cream  or  milk. 

Break  macaroni  into  one-inch  pieces,  put  into  a  strainer 
and  rinse  with  cold  water.  Cook  in  boiling  salted  water 
twenty  minutes,  or  until  tender.  Strain,  pour  a  little  cold 
water  over  it  to  prevent  pieces  from  adhering;  add  cream, 
reheat  and  season  with  salt;  or  serve  with  White  or  Tomato 
Sauce  and  grated  cheese. 

WHITE  SAUCE,  152  CALORIES 

(Individual  Rule.) 
y2  cup  milk.  y2  tablespoon  flour. 

y2  tablespoon  butter.  %  teaspoon  salt. 

.  Scald  the  milk.  Melt  the  butter,  remove  from  stove  and 
add  the  flour  and  mix  thoroughly,  then  pour  on  gradually  the 
hot  milk,  stirring  constantly  while  blending.  Cook  thor- 
oughly until  there  is  no  raw  taste  of  starch  and  season  with 
salt. 

TOMATO  SAUCE,  93  CALORIES 
(Individual  Rule.) 
y3  cup  strained  tomato  juice.        y2  tablespoon  flour. 
y2  tablespoon  butter.  Salt  and  pepper  to  taste. 

Scald  the  tomatoes.  Melt  the  butter  and  remove  from 
stove,  add  the  flour  and  mix  thoroughly,  then  pour  on  grad- 
ually the  hot  tomato,  stirring  constantly  while  blending;  cook 
thoroughly  until  there  is  no  raw  taste  of  starch  and  season 
with  salt  and  pepper. 

BAKED   MACARONI 

1   tablespoon  grated  fresh  cheese  =  62   Calories. 
Fill  a  buttered  baking-dish  with  alternate  layers  of  maca- 
roni,  White   Sauce   and   cheese;   then   cover   with   buttered 

1  Without  milk  or  cream. 


246      VEGETABLE  OR  PLANT  FOODS 

cracke    crumbs  and  bake  until  crumbs  are  a  golden  brown. 
Tomato  Sauce  may  be  substituted  for  White  Sauce  if  desired. 

BUTTERED  CRACKER  CRUMBS,  201  CALORIES 

1  tablespoon  butter.  %  CUP  cracker  crumbs. 

Melt  butter  and  add  cracker  crumbs  that  have  been  rolled 
fine.  To  be  used  for  the  top  of  any  scalloped  dish.  Cracker 
crumbs  or  bread  crumbs  may  be  used  and  bits  of  butter  dotted 
over  top. 

NOODLES    (FOR  THE   DIABETIC),  596   CALORIES 

(Individual  Rule.) 
1  egg,  well  beaten.  5  ounces  Gum  Gluten  Flour. 

1  tablespoon  milk. 

Beat  egg,  add  milk  and  gradually  add  the  Gluten  Flour. 
Roll  out  and  cut  in  thin  strips.     Serve  with  any  soup. 

BOILED  NOODLES  (FOR  THE  DIABETIC) 

Put  the  noodles  into  cold,  salted  water ;  cook  at  least  f orty- 
five  minutes  after  it  comes  to  boil,  or  boil  until  it  is  tender. 
Season  with  pepper  and  butter.     Serve  with  White  Sauce. 

CREAM  OR  WHITE  SAUCE  (FOR  THE  DIABETIC),  130  CALORIES' 

(Individual  Rule.) 
y2  cup  milk.  1  teaspoon  Gum  Gluten  Flour. 

1  teaspoon  butter. 

Melt  the  butter  without  browning  it,  add  the  flour,  then 
pour  in  the  scalded  milk  gradually,  stirring  all  the  time. 
Cook  five  minutes.  Season  with  salt  and  red  pepper  to  taste. 
Flavor  with  onion,  lemon  juice  or  parsley  if  desired.  Pour 
over  vegetables  very  hot. 

NOODLES  AU  GRATIN  (FOR  THE  DIABETIC) 

1  tablespoon  grated  fresh  cheese  =  62  Calories. 
Boil  the  noodles  as  above.  Place  them  in  a  baking-dish  in 
alternate  layers  with  grated  cheese,  having  cheese  form  the 
top  layer;  season  with  pepper  and  butter.  Pour  over  the 
mixture  the  water  in  which  the  noodles  were  cooked;  or,  if 
preferred,  cream  or  stewed  tomatoes  may  be  used  to  moisten. 


BREAD  247 


BREAD 


From  the  most  remote  times,  bread  has  been  an  important 
part  of  the  diet  of  mankind.  It  is  to-day  probably  more  gen- 
erally and  extensively  used  than  any  other  one  food-stuff, 
with  the  possible  exception  of  milk.  It  is  therefore  extremely 
important  to  know  what  constitutes  good  bread  and  what  are 
its  nutritive  properties. 

Composition.  The  ingredients  of  bread  are  very  simple  — 
flour,  water,  yeast  and  salt.  Any  cereal,  cleaned,  crushed  and 
sifted  to  a  powder,  may  serve  as  the  flour,  but  wheat  flour 
makes  the  most  satisfactory  bread,  because  its  proteins  in 
the  form  of  gluten  have  more  elasticity  than  those  of  other 
cereals. 

"  Bread  contains  from  34  to  40  per  cent,  of  water,  and  the 
remainder,  about  60  per  cent,  at  least,  is  nutritive  material. 
It  contains  a  large  amount  of  carbohydrates,  a  moderate 
amount  of  protein,  a  small  amount  of  mineral  matter,  and 
almost  no  fat.  Owing  to  the  excess  of  carbohydrates  and 
deficiency  of  protein  in  wheat,  bread  could  not  serve  alone 
for  the  proper  nutritive  of  the  body,  because  an  amount  of 
bread  sufficient  to  supply  the  requisite  protein  would  furnish 
much  more  carbohydrates  than  necessary.  In  a  mixed  diet 
this  discrepancy  is  of  little  importance,  as  it  is  supplied  by 
the  other  protein  foods  eaten.  Most  methods  of  increasing 
the  protein  contents  of  bread  have  a  tendency  to  increase 
the  cost,  but  skim  milk  can  be  used  in  place  of  water  in  the 
mixing  with  little  added  expense,  and  it  will  add  about  2 
per  cent,  increase  as  to  protein."  x 

Digestibility  and  Nutritive  Value.  "The  nutritive  value 
of  bread  depends,  not  only  on  its  chemical  composition,  but 
also  on  its  digestibility,  and  digestibility  in  its  turn  seems 
to  depend  largely  on  the  lightness  of  the  loaf.  It  is  the 
gluten  in  a  dough  which  gives  it  the  power  of  stretching 
and  rising  as  the  gas  from  the  yeast  expands  within  it,  and 

1  From   Farmer's    Bulletin    No.    389,    U.    B.    Dept.    of   Agriculture,    Washing- 
ton,   D.    C.      For    further    information,    read    "Bread    and    Bread-Mu 
Farmer's  Bulletin   No.   389. 


248      VEGETABLE  OR  PLANT  FOODS 

hence  of  making  a  light  loaf.  Eye  has  less  gluten  proteids 
than  wheat,  while  barley,  oats  and  maize  have  none,  so  that 
they  do  not  make  a  light,  porous  loaf  like  wheat.  It  is  pos- 
sible that  of  the  various  kinds  of  wheat  flour  those  con- 
taining a  large  part  of  the  bran  —  entire  wheat  and  graham 
flours  —  furnish  the  body  with  more  mineral  matter  than 
fine  white  flour;  but  it  is  not  certain  that  the  extra  amount 
of  mineral  matter  furnished  is  of  the  same  value  as  that  from 
the  interior  of  the  grain.  They  do  not  yield  more  digestible 
protein  than  the  white  flours,  as  was  for  a  time  supposed. 
It  seems  safe  to  say  that,  as  far  as  is  known,  for  a  given 
amount  of  money,  white  flour  yields  the  most  actual  nourish- 
ment with  the  various  food  ingredients  in  good  proportion. 

"  It  should  be  remembered,  however,  that  all  kinds  of  bread 
are  wholesome  if  of  good  quality,  and  the  use  of  several 
kinds  is  an  easy  means  of  securing  variety  in  the  diet."  x  As 
compared  with  most  meats  and  vegetables,  bread  has  prac- 
tically no  waste,  and  is  very  completely  digested.  Few  foods 
yield  so  much  energy  for  so  little  money.  A  diet  of  bread 
and  milk  can  be  perfectly  balanced  and  will  be  tired  of  less 
easily  than  any  other  equally  simple  diet. 

All  bread-stuffs  should  be  eaten  slowly  and  thoroughly 
masticated,  in  order  that  time  may  be  given  for  the  saliva 
to  act  upon  the  starch.  For  if  the  stomach  is  hampered  with 
quantities  of  unchanged  starch  it  cannot  perform  its  work 
without  effort.  Fermentation  results  or  the  intestines  have 
more  than  their  share  of  work  to  do  and  rebel.  If  these  foods 
were  eaten  slowly  much  of  the  resultant  dyspepsia  would  be 
avoided. 

Gluten  Bread.  When,  for  any  reason,  persons  are  denied 
starch  in  the  diet,  as  in  diabetes,  they  find  it  a  great  priva- 
tion to  do  without  bread,  and  many  attempts  have  been  made 
to  provide  an  acceptable  substitute.  Sometimes  bran  is  used, 
or  inulin  or  Iceland  moss,  but  none  of  these  is  nutritious. 
One  of  the  best  materials  for  this  purpose  is  gluten  flour. 

1  From  Farmer's  Bulletin  No.  389,  U.  S.  Dept.  of  Agriculture,  Washing- 
ton,   D.   0. 


BREAD  249 

It  is  prepared  by  washing  the  starch,  wholly  or  in  part,  from 
wheat  flour.  The  grayish,  tough,  elastic,  sticky  mass  left 
after  this  process  is  largely  gluten,  and  since  gluten  is  a 
protein,  it  has  been  sometimes  called  "the  lean  meat  of  the 
able  kingdom."  The  washed  gluten,  dried  and  ground, 
is  called  gluten  flour. 

It  still  contains  considerable  starch,  so  that  it  is  necessary 
for  the  physician  to  know  the  exact  composition  of  the  brand 
employed,  to  insure  good  results. 

Gluten  Standards.  The  necessity  for  a  Standard  for  Gluten 
Flour  is  very  apparent  to  chemists  who  have  had  occasion  to 
analyze  the  various  kinds  on  the  market.  For  years  millers 
have  supplied  dealers  with  middlings,  entire  wheat  flour  and 
mixtures  containing  bran  to  be  sold  as  gluten  flour.  Igno- 
rant of  those  facts,  physicians  advise  their  patients  to  use 
gluten,  but,  of  course,  have  invariably  been  disappointed  in 
results. 
United  States  Standard  for  Gluten: 

"  Gluten  Flour  is  the  product  made  from  flour  by  the  re- 
moval of  starch,  and  contains  not  less  than  five  and  six- 
trnths  (5.6)  per  cent,  of  Nitrogen,  and  not  more  than  ten 
(10)  per  cent,  of  Moisture." 

Note. —  Using  the  factor  6.25  usually  employed  by  the  U. 
S.  Government  chemists,  Standard  Gluten  Flour  must  there- 
fore show  at  least  thirty-five  (35)  per  cent,  protein. 

Bread-Making.  The  two  practical  methods  of  making 
bread  are  with  yeast  (fermented  bread)  and  with  cream  of 
tartar  and  bicarbonate  of  soda  (unfermented  bread). 

Fermented  Bread.  The  raising  or  leavening  of  bread  is 
usually  brought  about  by  allowing  yeast  to  develop  in  it. 
Yeast  is  an  exceedingly  minute  form  of  plant  life,  which, 
when  given  food,  flour,  moisture  and  warmth,  grows;  and 
by  this  growth  produces  carbon  dioxide  and  alcohol. 

The  carbon  dioxide,  in  its  effort  to  escape,  puffs  up  the 
flour  dough,  but  owing  to  the  viscous  nature  of  the  gluten 
(the  elastic,  strength-giving  substances  of  flour)  it  is  caught 
and  retained. 


250      VEGETABLE  OR  PLANT  FOODS 

Each  little  bubble  of  gas  occupies  a  certain  space,  and 
when  the  bread  is  baked  the  walls  around  these  spaces  harden 
and  the  result  is  a  porous  loaf.  The  alcohol  escapes  into  the 
oven  in  the  baking. 

To  bake  bread  requires  a  hot  oven. 

The  bread  should  continue  to  rise  for  about  fifteen  min- 
utes after  being  placed  in  the  oven,  then  the  rising  should 
cease  and  the  loaf  begin  to  brown. 

We  bake  bread  to  kill  the  yeast  plant,  to  render  the  starch 
soluble,  to  expel  the  alcohol  and  carbon  dioxide  and  to  form 
a  nice  flavored  crust. 

The  making  of  good  bread  requires  care  and  intelligence 
on  the  part  of  the  cook.  Use  a  good  brand  of  flour,  fresh 
yeast,  remembering  that  yeast  is  a  plant  and  must  be  put  at 
a  proper  temperature  to  grow.     Watch  each  process  carefully. 

"  Lightness  and  sweetness  of  bread  depends  as  much  on 
the  way  in  which  it  is  made  as  on  the  materials  used.  The 
greatest  care  should  be  used  in  preparing  and  baking  the 
dough  and  in  cooking  and  keeping  the  finished  bread." 

Unfermented  Bread.  Carbon  dioxide  is  obtained  to  lighten 
bread  by  causing  cream  of  tartar  and  bicarbonate  of  soda  to 
unite  chemically. 

To  one  part  soda  use  two  parts  cream  of  tartar.  When 
given  moisture  and  heat  carbon  dioxide  is  obtained. 

Baking  powder  is  a  combination  of  the  following  in- 
gredients : 

Bicarbonate   of   soda 84  grammes  to 

Cream  of  tartar 188  grammes 

Starch 5  to  20  per  cent. 

WHITE    FLOUR   BREAD 
1  slice  (1  oz.)  =  73  Calories. 
1  pint  hot  milk   (or  water).  1  tablespoon  salt. 

1  pint  cold  milk  (or  water).  1  Fleischmann's  yeast  cake. 

1  tablespoon  sugar.  Flour   (about  3  quarts). 

2  tablespoons    butter   or   lard. 

Into  mixing  bowl  put  the  scalded  milk,  add  the  butter; 
when  melted  add  the  sugar,  salt  and  cold  milk.     Save  one- 


BREAD  251 

half  cup  of  this  liquid,  and  when  lukewarm  soften  the  yeast 
in  it  and  stand  where  it  will  keep  warm.  To  above  mixture 
add  warmed  sifted  flour  (sift  twice  before  using)  to  make  a 
thin  batter,  add  softened  yeast  and  more  flour  until  stiff 
enough  to  knead.  Knead  until  light  and  spongy.  Care 
should  be  taken  not  to  add  more  flour  than  is  absolutely  neces- 
sary. Butter  a  large  stone  crock  or  bowl,  place  bread  in  it 
and  cover.  Let  rise  three  and  one-half  hours  at  about  75 
degrees  Fahrenheit  (in  a  medium  warm  room).  Then  re- 
move from  jar  and  knead  about  twenty  minutes  until  smooth 
and  velvety,  put  into  pans,  cover  carefully  and  let  rise  one 
hour  or  until  double  its  bulk. 

Bake  in  a  hot  oven  from  forty-five  minutes  to  one  hour, 
depending  upon  size  of  loaves. 

If  hard  crust  is  desired,  remove  from  pans  and  cool  in  a 
draft  of  air.  For  soft  crust,  before  bread  cools  roll  it  in  a 
clean  cloth. 

This  quantity  will  make  three  good  sized  loaves;  one-half 
the  amount  may  be  used  for  one  large  loaf. 

ENTIRE  WHEAT  BREAD 
1  slice   (1  oz.)=70  Calories. 
2  cups   scalded  nylk.  2  yeast  cakes  dissolved  in  y2  cup 

2  cups  boiling  water.  lukewarm  water. 

3  tablespoons  butter.  2  cups  white  flour. 

3  tablespoons  salt.  Entire    wheat    flour    enough    to 

5  tablespoons  molasses.  knead. 

Make  as  for  wheat  flour  bread,  and  add  molasses  after  the 
first  rising. 

One-half  of  recipe  may  be  used. 

WHOLE  WHEAT  OR  GRAHAM  BREAD 
Make  the  same  as  wheat  flour  bread,  adding  two  table- 
spoons of  sugar  or  molasses.  Make  a  batter  with  white  flour, 
using  three  or  four  cups,  then  use  whole  wheat  or  graham 
flour.  Let  rise  longer  than  for  white  bread,  and  put  imme- 
diately into  pans  without  second  kneading. 
Xote. —  Omit  sweetening  if  desired. 


252  VEGETABLE  OR  PLANT  FOODS 

GLUTEN  BREAD    (FOR  THE  DIABETIC) 
1  slice   (1  oz.)  =71  Calories. 
y2  yeast  cake.  3%  cups  Gum  Gluten  Flour. 

2   cups  lukewarm  water.  %  teaspoon  salt. 

Soften  the  yeast  in  a  small  portion  of  the  water  and  add 
to  the  ingredients.  Mix  to  a  stiff  dough  and  knead  thor- 
oughly, using  more  gluten  if  necessary  to  keep  it  from  stick- 
ing to  the  board.  Shape  into  a  loaf,  place  in  a  buttered  pan 
for  about  two  and  one-half  hours  to  rise  until  the  dough  is 
about  twice  its  bulk.  Then  bake  for  forty-five  minutes.  If 
desired  the  dough  may  be  given  a  second  mixing  after  the 
first  rising,  letting  it  rise  again  before  baking. 

Note. —  Gum  Gluten  Bread  may  be  made  the  same  as  ordi- 
nary wheat  flour  bread  with  the  exception  of  shortening, 
which  is  not  required. 

Avoid  having  the  water  too  warm  or  the  bread  will  be 
sticky;  the  chill  taken  off  is  all  that  is  necessary. 

If  desired,  one  cup  of  nut  meats  cut  in  small  pieces  may  be 
added  to  dough  just  before  putting  into  pans. 

BRAN    BREAD 

Follow  rule  for  Gluten  Bread,  using  one  part  of  bran 
to  four  parts  of  Gluten  Flour  with  one  cup  of  moisture.  If 
the  bran  is  increased  the  moisture  must  be  lessened. 

BOSTON  BROWN  BREAD,  2530  CALORIES 

1  small  slice   (1  oz. )  =64  Calories. 
1  cup  granulated  Indian  meal.       2  cups  sour  milk. 
1  cup  rye  flour.  2  teaspoons  soda. 

1  cup  graham  flour.  %  cup  molasses. 

1  teaspoon  salt. 

Mix  dry  ingredients  (except  soda)  together;  dissolve  soda 
in  sour  milk  and  add,  then,  molasses.  Pour  into  buttered  tins 
and  steam  three  or  four  hours. 

GLUTEN  BISCUIT    (FOR  THE  DIABETIC),  950  CALORIES  i 
1   cup  Gum  Gluten  Self-raising.      1  saltspoon  salt. 
1  tablespoon  butter.  Milk  or  water. 

1  Without   milk. 


BREAD  253 

Mix  and  sift  dry  ingredients,  rub  in  the  butter,  add  milk 
or  water  to  make  a  soft  dough.  Eoll  and  cut  with  biscuit 
cutter.     Makes  two  large  biscuits. 

BRAN  BISCUITS  (FOR  THE  DIABETIC) i 

Bran    50  gms. 

Agar  Agar    (powdered)     5  gms. 

Water 70  cc.   ( %  glass) 

Tie  bran  in  cheesecloth  and  wash  under  cold  water  tap 
until  water  is  clear.  Mix  Agar  Agar  and  %  glass  cold  water 
free  from  lumps,  and  bring  to  a  boil.  Mix  while  hot  with 
the  washed  bran.  Turn  the  mixture  onto  a  tray  and  press 
into  a  firm,  even  sheet  about  Vi  inch  thick.  Mark  off  into 
five  biscuits,  and  when  firm  and  cold  (6  to  8  hrs.)  bake  in 
moderate  oven  till  dry  —  about  45  minutes.  Salt  may  be 
added.     This  quantity  is  sufficient  for  one  day. 

BAKING  POWDER  BISCUIT,  694  CALORIES 

1  cup  flour.  %  teaspoon  salt. 

1]_.  level  teaspoons  Rumford  bak-  1  tablespoon  butter  or  lard, 
ing  powder.  %  cup   (scant)  milk  or  water. 

Sift  dry  ingredients  twice,  rub  in  the  butter  with  tips  of 
fingers;  using  knife,  stir  in  gradually  the  liquid;  mix  as 
soft  as  can  be  handled;  put  dough  on  a  well-floured  board, 
pat  lightly  to  one  inch  thickness,  cut  with  biscuit  cutter, 
put  on  a  shallow  buttered  tin,  heated,  and  bake  in  a  hot  oven. 
Put  a  little  milk  on  top  of  each  biscuit  before  baking  to 
make  them  brown  well. 

Xote. —  Dough  may  be  lightly  kneaded  as  for  bread,  and 
then  cut. 

BRAN  CAKES  EOR  DIABETICS.  393  CALORIES  ■ 

Calories 

Bran  2  cups     

Melted   butter         30  grams    (1  tablespoonful  plus  2  gms.)    ....225 

|  whole  )  2     156 

white   ( 1 )         2.1  grams    12 

Salt  1  teaspoonful     

Water 

1  Dr.  F.  M.  Allen,   "The  Hospital  of  the  Rockefeller  Institute.''    1017. 
(Agar    Agar    purchase    at   drug   stores.      Bran    is    more    reasonable    if    pur- 
chased from  a  feed  store. ) 

2  Dr.  Elliott  P.  Jo-lin.  "  The  Treatment  of  Diabetes  Mellitus."  Lea  &  Febiger. 
Philadelphia,  Pa.,  1916. 


254      VEGETABLE  OR  PLANT  FOODS 

Tie  bran  in  cheese-cloth  and  wash  thoroughly  by  fastening 
•n  to  the  water  tap,  until  the  water  comes  away  clear.  The 
bran  should  be  frequently  kneaded  so  that  all  parts  come  in 
contact  with  the  water.  Wring  dry.  Mix  bran,  well  beaten 
whole  eggs,  butter  and  salt.  Beat  the  egg  white  very  stiff  and 
fold  in  at  the  last.  Shape  with  knife  and  tablespoon  into 
three  dozen  small  cakes.  If  desired  one-half  a  gram  of  cin- 
namon or  other  flavoring  may  be  added.  Each  cake  contains : 
protein,  0.5  grams;  fat,  1.0  gram;  calories,  11. 

WHITE  GEMS,  1627  CALORIES 

2  cups  flour.  2  tablespoons   butter. 
1     teaspoon  salt.  2  tablespoons  sugar. 

3  level   teaspoons   Rumford   bak-  2  eggs. 

ing   powder.  1  cup  milk. 

Sift  dry  ingredients  into  mixing  bowl,  add  butter  and 
rub  it  in  with  tips  of  fingers.  Add  the  well-beaten  eggs 
and  the  milk  gradually  and  beat  all  well  together.  Have 
gem  pans  well  greased  and  heated;  fill  two-thirds  full  and 
bake  in  a  very  hot  oven  fifteen  or  twenty  minutes.  Put  a 
little  melted  butter  on  each  gem  before  putting  it  into  the 
oven.  They  are  sufficiently  cooked  when  tested  with  a  fine 
washed  knitting  needle  and  it  comes  out  dry. 

CORNMEAL  GEMS,  1370  CALORIES 

1  cup  flour.  %  teaspoon  salt. 

%  cup  cornmeal.  1  egg. 

y3  cup  sugar.  1  cup  milk. 

3    level   teaspoons   Rumford  bak-  1  tablespoon  melted  butter, 
ing  powder. 

Sift  dry  ingredients  into  mixing  bowl,  add  the  milk  and 
well-beaten  egg  and  the  melted  butter.  Put  into  well-greased 
hot  gems  and  cook  in  a  quick  oven. 

POP-OVERS,  730  CALORIES 

1  egg.  Speck  salt. 

1  cup  milk.  1  cup  flour. 


TOAST  255 

Beat  egg  until  very  light,  add  milk  and  salt  and  sift  in  the 
flour  very  carefully  —  beat  very  light,  never  stirring.  Have 
ready  gem  pans  or  stone  custard  cups,  well  greased  and  heated. 
Pour  in  mixture,  filling  two-thirds  full,  and  bake  in  quick 
oven.  This  will  make  six  large  pop-overs.  The  success  of 
these  pop-overs  lies  in  beating  the  batter  well  and  in  having 
the  cups  very  hot  before  putting  in  the  mixture. 

Note. —  These  cannot  be  cooked  successfully  in  tin. 

BUTTER   BALLS 
1  teaspoon  butter  =  36  Calories. 
Cut  butter  in  small  pieces  size  of  balls  desired,  and  put 
in  ice-water.     Soak  the  butter  paddles  in  boiling  water  ten 
minutes,  then  chill  in  ice-water.     Hold  a  paddle  firmly  in 
the  left  hand  and  roll  each  piece  of  butter  with  the  right 
paddle  until  round.     If  butter  sticks  it  must  be  chilled  longer, 
or  paddles  must  be  rubbed  with  salt  and  reheated. 
One  pound  of  butter  will  make  about  thirty  balls. 

TOAST 

In  ordinary  wheat  bread,  starch  is  the  principal  constituent. 
Starch  when  subjected  to  a  high  degree  of  heat  is  changed 
into  an  easily  digested  substance  called  dextrin. 

In  the  ordinary  cooking  of  a  loaf  of  bread  the  starch,  in 
the  outer  layer  is  changed  into  dextrin,  which  gives  the  crust 
its  sweet  flavor.  Slices  of  bread  toasted  undergo  a  similar 
change. 

Bread  is  toasted  not  merely  to  brown  it,  but  to  take  out 
all  the  moisture  possible,  so  that  it  may  be  more  thoroughly 
moistened  with  the  saliva,  and  thus  easily  digested;  also 
to  give  it  a  better  flavor.  The  correct  way  to  make  toast  is 
to  use  stale  bread  cut  in  uniform  slices,  and  to  dry  it  thor- 
oughly before  browning. 

Toast  prepared  in  this  way,  even  if  moistened  with  milk 
or  water,  may  be  easily  and  thoroughly  acted  upon  by  the 
digestive  fluids. 


256      VEGETABLE  OR  PLANT  FOODS 

ENERGY  VALUE   OF  BREAD 

1  slice   (1  oz. )   white  bread =73  Calories. 

1  slice    (1  oz. )    entire  wheat  bread =70  Calories. 

1  slice    (1  oz.)    gluten  bread =71  Calories. 

1  small  slice   (1  oz.)   Boston  Brown  Bread..  =64  Calories. 

See  Table,  page  64,  for  energy  value  of  other  ingredients. 

SIPPETS 

Cut  thin  slices  of  bread,  and  from  them  make  oblongs  an 
inch  wide  by  four  inches  long.  Toast  carefully  so  that  they 
will  not  break,  and  pile  on  a  small  bread-plate  with  doily  if 
they  are  to  be  served  dry. 

TOAST  STICKS 

Take  a  slice  of  fresh  home-made  bread  (made  without  short- 
ening), or  French  bread,  cut  five-eighths  of  an  inch  thick,  re 
move  crust  and  cut  in  narrow  strips.  Place  on  rack  in  pan 
and  dry  and  brown  in  a  slow  oven. 

CROUTONS 

See  chapter  "  Soup  Accompaniments "  for  recipe.  Pag« 
230. 

GLUTEN    CRISP    (FOR    THE    DIABETIC) 

Cut  Gum  Gluten  Bread  into  thin  slices,  and  dry  in  slow 
oven  until  the  moistening  is  thoroughly  evaporated,  or  the 
bread  may  be  cut  in  cubes  and  slightly  browned.  Serve  in 
soups  or  in  milk. 

Note. —  Gluten  Biscuit  Crisps,  page  261. 

WATER   TOAST 

Toast  the  bread.  Dip  quickly  in  boiling  salted  water  (al- 
lowing one-half  teaspoon  salt  to  one  cup  water).  Spread 
with  butter.     Serve  on  hot  plate. 

TOASTED  CRACKERS 
1  Saltine=15  Calories. 
Toast  oblong  crackers  daintily,  and  butter.     Serve  on  plate 
with  doily,  piled  log-cabin  fashion. 


TOAST  257 

MILK  TOAST,   388   CALORIES 

Put  a  cup  of  rich  milk  in  a  saucepan  and  place  it  on  the 
stove.  While  it  is  heating,  toast  three  slices  of  bread  to  a 
delicate  brown.  Put  them  into  a  covered  dish,  and  when  the 
milk  is  scalding  hot,  season  it  with  a  saltsj^oon  of  salt,  and 
pour  it  over  the  toast. 

Xote. —  A  little  butter  may  be  spread  on  each  slice  before 
the  milk  is  added,  but  it  is  a  more  delicate  dish  without  it. 

CREAM  TOAST  NO.  I,  261  CALORIES 

(Individual  Rule.) 
y2  tablespoon  butter.  y2  cup  milk. 

y2  tablespoon  flour.  \y2  slices  bread. 

y2  saltspoon  salt. 

Scald  the  milk.  Melt  butter,  add  flour,  remove  from  fire 
and  add  the  milk  gradually.  Stir  over  heat  constantly  until 
smooth,  cooking  five  minutes  after  blending,  or  until  the 
starch  is  thoroughly  cooked. 

Toast:  Eemove  crust  if  desired,  cut  in  oblong  pieces  and 
toast.  Serve  on  small  platter  with  cream  sauce  poured  over 
it,  and  garnish  with  toast  points. 

Xote. —  If  you  wish  the  toast  very  soft,  it  may  be  dipped 
very  quickly  in  boiling  salted  water  before  adding  the  cream 
sauce. 

CREAM  TOAST  NO.  II,  261  CALORIES 

y2  tablespoon  butter.  1  tablespoon  cold  water. 

y2  tablespoon  flour.  y2  cup  milk. 

y2  saltspoon  salt.  \y2  slices  toast. 

Scald  milk.  Mix  flour  and  salt  and  add  the  cold  water 
gradually,  making  a  smooth,  thin  paste.  Add  to  scalded 
milk;  cook  in  double  boiler  twenty  minutes,  stirring  con- 
stantly until  it  thickens.  Add  butter.  Pour  over  toast,  and 
serve  hot,  on  hot  platter. 

CELERY   TOAST 
4  ounces  celery  =  12  Calories. 
Clean  celery  and  cut  into  one-inch  pieces;  cover  with  boil- 
ing water  and  cook  until  tender ;  drain  off  water. 


258      VEGETABLE  OR  PLANT  FOODS 

Prepare  Cream  Sauce  in  Cream  Toast  No.  I;  add  cooked 
celery  and  pour  on  small  slices  of  buttered  toast.  Garnish 
with  toast  points. 

FRENCH  TOAST  (FOR  THE  DIABETIC),  144  CALORIES  i 

y2  cup  milk.  Salt. 

1  egg.  Gluten  bread. 

Beat  the  egg,  add  milk  and  salt;  dip  into  this  mixture 
slices  of  Gum  Gluten  bread.  Saute  and  brown  in  a  little 
butter. 

CLAM  BROTH  AND  TOAST 

Follow  directions  as  for  Milk  or  Cream  Toast,  adding  suffi- 
cient Clam  Broth  (to  taste)  to  the  Sauce,  and  pour  over  toast. 
Serve  hot. 

SANDWICHES 

TO   PREPARE   SANDWICHES 

Use  white,  entire  wheat,  graham,  gluten  or  Boston  brown 
bread.  Bread  may  be  buttered  before  cutting  from  loaf, 
spread  with  soft,  plain  butter  cut  into  very  thin  slices,  cover 
with  another  slice,  press  together,  cut  in  fancy  shapes,  or 
roll.  Wrap  in  waxed  paper  or  cover  with  a  dry  napkin, 
over  which  place  a  slightly  moistened  one,  until  ready  to 
serve. 

Bread  may  be  baked  purposely  for  sandwiches  by  filling 
one-half  pound  baking  powder  boxes  half  full  of  dough,  let 
rise  and  bake.  Serve  sandwiches  on  a  dainty  doily  on  a 
small  plate. 

ENERGY  VALUE  OF  BREAD 


1  slice   (1  oz. )   white  bread =  73  Calories. 

1  slice   (1  oz.)  entire  wheat  bread =70  Calories. 

1  slice    (1  oz.)    gluten  bread =71  Calories. 

1  small  slice   (1  oz.)   Boston  Brown  Bread..  =64  Calories. 

1  teaspoon  butter =36  Calories. 

See  Table,  page  64,  for  energy  value  of  other  ingredients. 

1  Calculated  without  bread. 


SANDWICHES  259 

BREAD  AND  BUTTER  SANDWICHES 

Butter  bread  slightly,  cut  very  thin  and  put  slices  to- 
gether.    Cut  in  fancy  shapes. 

BOSTON  BROWN  BREAD   SANDWICHES 
Steam  Boston  brown  bread  in  one-half  pound  baking  pow- 
der cans.     Butter  and  cut  in  thin  slices  and  add  a  thin  round 
of  white  bread.     The  combination  of  the  two  makes  a  pleas- 
ing variety. 

CHEESE  SANDWICHES 
Chop  stuffed  olives  fine  and  add  equal  quantity  of  cream 
cheese  and  spread  on  bread  and  butter  sandwiches.     A  lettuce 
leaf  may  be  added  if  desired. 

CHICKEN   SANDWICHES 

Chop  cold  boiled  chicken,  add  mayonnaise  dressing  and 
spread  on  bread  and  butter  sandwiches. 

Or,  instead  of  mayonnaise,  moisten  with  strong  chicken 
broth  and  season  with  salt  and  pepper.  Minced  celery  may 
be  added. 

EGG    SANDWICHES 
See  chapter  "  Eggs  "  for  recipe.     Page  183. 

FRUIT  SANDWICHES 
Spread  bread  and  butter   sandwiches  with  stewed   dates, 
figs  or  prunes,  seasoned  with  a  little  lemon  juice  or  chop 
dates,  raisins  and  nuts  very  fine  and  moisten  with  "  Cream 
Dressing."     See  page  274. 

LETTUCE    SANDWICHES 
Spread  bread  and  butter  sandwiches  with  a  little  mayon- 
naise dressing,  lay  in  fresh,  crisp  lettuce  leaves  washed  and 
dried  thoroughly,  and  cut  even. 

NUT    SANDWICHES 

Prepare  same  as  lettuce  sandwiches,  adding  chopped  nuts 
to  the  mayonnaise. 


260  VEGETABLE  OR  PLANT  FOODS 

PEPTONOIDS    SANDWICHES 

Cut  slices  of  bread  in  fancy  shapes,  butter  and  spread  with 
layer  of  Dry  Peptonoids  Soluble,  adding  salt,  pepper,  paprika 
or  celery  salt,  if  desired. 

Note. —  Dry  Peptonoids  Soluble  may  be  blended  with 
mayonnaise  dressing,  cream,  chopped  nuts  or  eggs,  for  filling. 

RAW    BEEF    SANDWICHES 

See  chapter  "Beef  Preparations"  for  recipe.     Page  217. 

DATE  SANDWICHES 

Combine  chopped  Dromedary  Dates  with  chopped  pecan  nut 
meats  or  cottage  cheese  and  spread  on  slices  of  wheatbread, 
which  have  been  spread  with  thick,  sweet  cream  or  soft  butter. 

CRACKERS  —  WAFERS 

BRAN  CRACKERS,  1513  CALORIES  * 
iy2  cups  wheat  bran.  y2  teaspoon  salt. 

iy2  cups  sifted  flour.  4  tablespoons  butter. 

1  teaspoon  cream  of  tartar.  Milk. 

y2  teaspoon  soda. 

Blend  all  ingredients,  using  enough  cold  milk  to  make  a 
stiff  dough.  Eoll  to  one-eighth  inch  thickness  and  cut  with 
a  small  biscuit  cutter.  Great  care  is  needed  in  baking  that 
they  do  not  burn  and  at  the  same  time  that  they  are  thor- 
oughly cooked. 

They  keep  well  a  long  time  if  put  in  a  tin  box. 

They  should  be  eaten  at  each  meal  if  needed  as  purgative 
medicine. 

DELICIOUS  CRACKERS,  547  CALORIES 

White  of  one  egg.  %   cup  stoned  Dromedary  Dates, 

Pinch  of  salt.  chopped. 


CRACKERS  —  WAFERS  261 

Beat  slightly  the  white  of  egg  with  salt.  Add  the  chopped 
dates,  spread  on  unsweetened  crackers,  pressing  down  firmly, 
and  put  in  moderate  oven  for  three  minutes.  This  is  a  de- 
lirious cracker,  particularly  suitable  for  small  children. 

GLUTEN  WAFERS  (FOR  THE  DIABETIC) 

y%  cup  thick  cream  =  432  Cal-         Gum  Gluten  Flour   (1  cup  =  513 

ories.  Calories). 

1  saltspoon  salt. 

Add  salt  to  the  cream  and  add  the  Gluten  gradually  to 
make  a  stiff  dough.  Toss  on  a  floured  board  and  roll  as 
thinly  as  possible  and  cut  in  strips  with  sharp  knife  or  shape 
with  a  cutter.  Bake  in  a  buttered  sheet  in  a  slow  oven  until 
delicately  browned. 

GLUTEN  BISCUIT  CRISPS   (FOR  THE  DIABETIC) 
1  biscuit  crisp  =  25  Calories. 
Gum  Gluten  Biscuit  Crisps  may  be  served  plain,  or  but- 
tered and  heated  slightly  in  oven. 

GLUTEN  CHEESE  WAFERS  (FOR  THE  DIABETIC),  882  CALORIES 
1   cup  Gum  Gluten  Flour.  Yolks  2  eggs. 

3  tablespoons  cream.  1  saltspoon  salt. 

3  tablespoons  grated  cheese.  Nutmeg. 

Mix  in  order  given,  roll  thin  and  bake. 


VEGETABLES  — VEGETABLE  SAUCES 

LEGUMES  — ROOTS  AND  TUBERS— GREEN  VEGETABLES 
Vegetables  include  nearly  all  kinds  of  plant  food  except 
fruits,  grains  and  nuts. 

•lion.     Vegetables  are  classified  as  — 
Legumes  —  as  peas,  beans  and  Lentils. 
Roots  and  Tubers  —  as  potatoes,  beets,  turnip-,  etc. 
Green  Vegetables  —  as  lettuce,  spinach,  celery,  etc. 
Composition.     All   vegetables   have   a   high   percentage  of 
water,  and  with  the  exception  of  legumes,  a  relatively  small 
proportion  of  protein.     The  chief  nutrients  arc   starch  and 


262      VEGETABLE  OR  PLANT  FOODS 

sugar.  The  fats  are  usually  small  in  amount  and  chiefly  in 
the  form  of  oils.  A  variety  of  mineral  salts  are  present, 
chiefly  salts  of  potash  and  soda  united  with  organic  acids. 
Vegetables  give  bulk  to  food  and  possess  antiscorbutic  prop- 
erties. 

Digestibility.  As  the  gastric  ferments  play  no  part  in 
carbohydrate  digestion,  vegetables  are  digested  mainly  in  the 
intestines.  The  presence  of  cellulose  prevents  the  ready  di- 
gestion of  the  nutrients,  hence  it  may  be  stated  as  a  general 
rule  that  vegetable  food  is  less  completely  digested  and  ab- 
sorbed than  animal  food.  It  would  seem  desirable  to  restrict 
this  type  of  food  for  persons  of  very  weak  digestive  powers. 

General  Rules  for  Cooking  Vegetables.  Wash  thoroughly; 
pare,  peel,  or  scrape,  according  to  the  kind.  Let  them  stand 
in  cold  water  until  ready  to  cook,  to  keep  them  crisp,  to 
freshen  them  when  wilted,  or  to  prevent  them  from  turning 
dark. 

Cook  in  enough  freshly  boiling  salted  water  to  cover,  and 
keep  the  water  boiling  (not  rapid  boiling,  as  tender  vegetables 
are  easily  broken).  Allow  one  teaspoon  of  salt  to  one  quart 
of  water.  Salt  may  be  added  when  vegetables  are  put  in, 
except  in  the  case  of  delicate  green  vegetables,  as  peas, 
spinach,  etc.,  when  it  should  not  be  added  until  nearly  done. 
To  preserve  the  color,  cook  green  vegetables  uncovered. 

Vegetables  should  be  cooked  only  until  tender,  drained  im- 
mediately, and  served  promptly.  Overcooking  injures  their 
flavor  and  makes  them  tough.  Time  for  cooking  vegetables 
varies  with  the  size,  age  and  freshness. 

Thrice-cooked  Vegetables.1 — The  vegetables  are  cleaned, 
cut  up  fine,  soaked  in  cold  water  and  then  strained.  The 
vegetables  are  then  tied  up  loosely  in  a  large  square  of  double 
cheese-cloth  —  large  enough  so  that  the  corners  of  the  cloth, 
after  it  has  been  tied  up  with  a  string,  make  conveniently  long 
ends,  and  also  large  enough  to  allow  the  vegetables  to  swell 
without  sticking  together.  They  are  then  transferred  to  fresh 
cold  water,  placed  on  the  fire,  and  allowed  to  reach  150°  F. 
This  water  is  poured  off  and  replaced  by  water  of  the  same 
temperature,  which  is  brought  to  the  boiling  point,  and  then 

1  Dr.  Elliott  P.  Joslin,   "  The  Treatment  of  Diabetes  Mellitus." 


VEGETABLES  263 

the  water  is  again  poured  off,  and  so  on  until  the  requisite 
number  of  changes  are  made.  The  pots  for  the  vegetables 
should  be  of  sufficient  size  to  hold  a  large  quantity  of  water, 
and  in  a  hospital,  vegetables  enough  for  the  daily  supply  of 
six  patients.  Vegetables  thus  cooked  will  keep  in  cold  stor- 
age two  or  more  days,  and  can  be  reheated  in  a  steamer. 

If  the  vegetables  are  cooked  with  the  cover  left  off  the  pot 
they  will  be  lighter  in  color  and  the  flavor  not  so  strong. 

Legumes.  Of  this  class  of  food-stuffs,  peas  and  beans  are 
the  most  important.     Lentils  and  peanuts  are  also  valuable. 

Composition.  Fresh  legumes,  such  as  peas  and  beans,  con- 
tain from  2  per  cent,  to  9  per  cent,  of  protein,  a  trace  of  fat 
and  from  7  per  cent,  to  30  per  cent,  of  carbohydrate. 

Dried  legumes,  such  as  dried  peas  and  beans,  on  account 
of  the  lessened  amount  of  water,  contain  from  18  per  cent,  to 
35  per  cent,  of  protein,  over  1  per  cent,  fat,  and  as  high  as 
65  per  cent,  carbohydrate.  They  form  one  of  the  chief  sources 
of  protein  in  a  strictly  vegetarian  diet.  Digestibility  depends 
largely  upon  the  method  of  cooking  and  the  amount  eaten. 

Roots  and  Tubers.  Roots  and  tubers  contain  the  reserve 
material  stored  up  by  the  plant,  and  some  of  them  are  among 
the  important  food-stuffs.  Their  nutritive  value  is  largely 
due  to  starch  and  sugar.  On  account  of  the  small  proportion 
of  protein  and  fat,  and  the  large  proportion  of  water,  they 
are  inferior  in  nutritive  value  to  both  legumes  and  cereals. 
The  mineral  matter  is  an  important  constituent  of  these,  as 
of  other  vegetable  foods.  Sodium,  potassium  and  iron  salts, 
and  sulphur  and  phosphorus  compounds,  are  the  common  ash 
constituents.  In  combination  with  organic  acids,  etc.,  they 
contribute  much  to  the  flavor  of  these  foods. 

As  a  class  they  may  be  divided  into  the  following  groups : 

1.  Starch-yielding  vegetables,  as  potatoes  and  sweet  pota- 
toes. 

2.  Succulent  roots,  as  beets,  carrots,  parsnips  and  onions. 

3.  Condimental  or  flavoring  roots,  as  horse-radish  and  gin- 
ger. 


264      VEGETABLE  OR  PLANT  FOODS 

The  potato  is  the  most  important  of  the  starch-yielding 
class  of  vegetables.  It  is  a  tuber  or  thickened  underground 
stem. 

The  composition  of  the  potato  (Letheby)  is  as  follows: 

Water    75.00  per  cent. 

Starch    18.80  per  cent. 

Nitrogenous   matter    2.00  per  cent. 

Sugar     3.00  per  cent. 

Fat 20  per  cent. 

When  pared  before  cooking,  there  may  be  a  considerable 
loss  of  nutritive  material,  especially  of  mineral  matter.  By 
cooking  in  the  skin,  this  loss  is  largely  prevented.  To  be 
easily  digestible,  a  potato  must  be  mealy,  so  as  to  be  readily 
acted  on  by  digestive  juices.  This  is  best  accomplished  by 
baking  in  an  oven  at  380  to  400°  F.  When  a  patient  begins 
to  take  solids,  the  vegetable  usually  first  prescribed  is  a  baked 
potato. 

Beets,  carrots,  parsnips,  salsify,  turnips  and  onions  are 
the  most  common  of  the  class  of  succulent  roots.  They  con- 
tain, as  a  rule,  more  water  than  the  starch-yielding  class  of 
vegetables,  and  their  carbohydrates  are  frequently  in  the  form 
of  sugars,  pectins,  and  other  polysaccharide  carbohydrates 
than  true  starch,  some  of  which  have  no  nutritive  value.  The 
percentage  of  crude  fiber  is  greater  than  in  the  starch-yield- 
ing class. 

The  characteristic  flavors  and  odors  are  in  many  cases  due 
to  the  presence  of  volatile  organic  compounds  of  sulphur. 
These  are  often  advantageous  in  making  the  vegetables  pal- 
atable, and  adding  variety  to  the  diet. 

The  beet  contains  a  large  percentage  of  starch  and  sugar. 

Carrots  and  parsnips  also  contain  much  sugar,  and  when 
young  and  tender  form  a  very  nutritious  food. 

Onions  contain  considerable  nutriment,  but  are  most  val- 
uable for  their  pungent  oil,  which  is  rich  in  sulphur.  They 
have  diuretic  properties,  and  are  useful  in  constipation. 

Radishes  contain  a  large  amount  of  cellulose  and  should 
not  be  eaten  by  invalids.     They  are  chiefly  used  as  a  relish. 


VEGETABLES  265 

Green  Vegetables.  These  vegetables  have  a  fuel  value  of 
less  than  200  calories  per  pound;  they  are  useful  chiefly  for 
their  mineral  salts,  and  for  the  bulk,  variety  and  relish  they 
give  to  the  diet. 

Asparagus  is  easily  digested,  even  by  invalids.  It  has  a 
diuretic  action,  and  imparts  a  characteristic  odor  to  the  urine 
for  some  hours. 

Cabbage  contains  considerable  sulphur  and  therefore  fre- 
quently causes  flatulence. 

Cauliflower  belongs  to  the  cabbage  family,  but  is  easily 
digested. 

Celery  is  more  digestible  cooked  than  raw. 

Spinach  is  especially  valuable  for  its  large  amount  of  iron. 

ENERGY  VALUE  OF  THE  POTATO 

1  medium  potato   (3%  ozs.)  =83  Calories. 
See  Table,  page  64,  for  energy  value  of  other  ingredients. 

BOILED  POTATOES 
Select  potatoes  of  uniform  size.  Wash,  pare  and  put  into 
cold  water  to  keep  from  discoloring.  Put  them  into  sauce- 
pan, cover  with  boiling  water,  boil  and  when  partly  cooked, 
add  one  tablespoon  salt  to  every  six  potatoes.  Cook  until 
soft,  about  twenty-five  to  thirty  minutes,  drain  very  dry,  and 
shake  the  pan,  without  a  cover,  gently  over  the  stove  till 
the  potatoes  are  mealy.     Do  not  serve  in  covered  dish. 

RICED  POTATOES 

Add  salt  and  pepper  to  boiled  potatoes,  and  rub  them 
through  a  heated  potato-ricer  or  squash-strainer  into  the  (hot) 
dish  they  are  to  be  served  in.  Serve  immediately,  or  pour 
a  little  milk  over  the  top  and  brown  in  the  oven. 

MASHED  POTATOES,  305  CALORIES 

For  mashed  potatoes  the  uneven  sizes  may  be  used;  the 
larger  ones  should  be  cut,  so  all  will  be  of  uniform  size. 
Prepare  as  for  boiled  potatoes.  When  cooked  and  dried,  add 
salt,  butter,  pepper  and  cream  in  following  proportion  : 


266  VEGETABLE  OR  PLANT  FOODS 

1  pint  potatoes.  y2  saltspoon  white  pepper. 

y2  teaspoon  salt.  2  teaspoons  hot  cream  or  milk. 

1  tablespoon  butter. 

To  the  potatoes  add  the  salt,  pepper  and  butter,  and  mash, 
leaving  them  in  saucepan  cooked  in,  and  on  stove  so  as  to 
keep  them  hot.  Use  open-wire  masher  or  fork  and  beat 
quickly,  so  they  may  be  light  and  dry,  not  "  gummy."  Lastly 
put  in  the  cream,  beat  for  a  moment  and  serve  immediately. 

POTATO   CAKES 

From  cold  mashed  potatoes  make  slightly  flattened  balls. 
Put  them  in  a  floured  tin,  brush  each  over  with  milk  and 
bake  in  a  hot  oven  five  minutes,  or  till  a  delicate  brown. 

Note. —  These  cakes  may  be  sauteed  in  a  little  beef  fat  or 
butter  if  desired. 

SURPRISE  BALLS 

Roll  the  potatoes  into  balls  as  above,  and  with  a  teaspoon 
press  a  hollow  in  the  top.  Chop  fine  some  cold,  lean  meat, 
season  it  with  salt,  pepper  and  gravy  and  put  one  teaspoon 
of  the  meat  into  the  hollow  of  the  potato  ball.  Put  a  little 
milk  or  melted  butter  on  top  and  brown  in  oven  or  saute. 

BAKED    POTATOES 

Select  potatoes  of  uniform  size,  not  very  large,  wash  and 
scrub  thoroughly,  cut  off  a  small  piece  at  each  end  in  order 
that  the  steam  may  escape.  Bake  in  hot  oven  from  forty-five 
to  fifty  minutes.  When  baked  break  open  slightly,  that  steam 
may  escape,  and  serve  on  folded  napkin. 

POTATOES  BAKED  IN  THE  HALF  SHELL 
Cut  off  top  of  baked  potato  and  scoop  out  inside.  Mash 
and  season  well  as  for  mashed  potatoes  and  add  the  well- 
beaten  white  of  egg.  Fill  the  skins  with  the  mixture,  heap- 
ing it  lightly  on  top,  brush  over  with  milk  or  slightly  beaten 
white  of  egg  and  brown  slightly.  Potatoes  may  be  sprinkled 
with  grated  cheese  before  putting  into  oven. 


VEGETABLES  267 

POTATOES  AIT  GRATIN 

Cut  cold  boiled  potatoes  into  cubes  and  put  into  a  buttered 
baking  dish.  Cover  with  white  sauce,  put  buttered  cracker 
or  bread  crumbs  on  top  and  bake  until  golden  brown. 

Xote. —  A  little  grated  cheese  added  to  the  White  Sauce 
just  before  pouring  over  the  potatoes  adds  a  pleasant  flavor. 

CREAMED  POTATOES,  180  CALORIES 

1    cup   cold   sliced    or    cubed   po-    %  teaspoon  salt. 

tatoes.  y2  teaspoon  finely  chopped  pars- 

14  cup  milk.  ley. 

y2  tablespoon  butter.  Speck  white  pepper. 

Heat  the  milk,  add  the  potatoes,  and  cook  until  they  have 
nearly  absorbed  the  milk.  Add  butter  and  seasoning,  cook 
five  minutes  longer,  add  parsley  and  serve  hot. 

POTATO   BALLS 

From  large  potatoes  cut  balls  with  a  French  potato  cutter 
and  throw  them  into  cold  water.  Cook  for  twelve  minutes 
or  more  in  enough  boiling  water  to  cover.  Salt  at  end  of 
six  minutes.  Drain  and  let  them  stand  a  few  minutes  te 
dry.  Serve  as  a  vegetable,  with  cream  sauce,  or  with  parsley 
butter,  or  use  as  a  garnish  for  broiled  fish.  Test  potatoes 
with  a  needle  to  see  when  tender. 

Xote. —  Make  mashed  potatoes  from  frames  left  after  cut- 
ting out  the  balls. 

PARSLEY  BUTTER,  358   CALORIES 
1  tablespoon  butter.  Juice  y2   lemon. 

1  teaspoon  chopped  parsley.  1  pint  potato  balls. 

Cream  the  butter,  add  lemon  juice  and  chopped  parsley. 
Add  to  the  hot  potato  balls,  heat  five  minutes  and  serve. 
Omit  lemon  juice  if  desired. 

ASPARAGUS 

y4    bunch    asparagus =60  Calories. 

1  slice  toast   (1  oz. ) =73  Calories. 

Boiled  Asparagus.  Prepare  asparagus  by  catting  off  lower 
part  of  stalk  at  the  point  at  which  they  will  snap.     YYa-h. 


268      VEGETABLE  OR  PLANT  FOODS 

remove  scales  and  tie  together  or  cut  into  one  inch  pieces 
Cook  in  boiling  salted  water  until  soft,  twenty  to  thirty-five 
minutes.  As  the  tips  are  more  tender  keep  them  out  of  water 
the  first  ten  minutes  of  the  cooking.  Drain,  place  in  hot 
serving  dish,  spread  with  one-half  teaspoon  butter  and  sprin- 
kle with  salt. 

Asparagus  on  Toast.  Serve  boiled  asparagus  on  buttered 
toast,  moistened  with  a  little  of  the  liquid  the  asparagus  is 
cooked  in. 

Cream  Asparagus,  Plain  or  on  Toast.  Pour  Cream  Sauce 
No.  I  over  boiled  asparagus  and  serve  hot,  or  serve  boiled 
asparagus  on  toast  and  pour  Cream  Sauce  No.  I  over  same. 

CARROTS 
1  small  carrot  (2  ozs.)  =20  Calories. 

Boiled  Carrots.  Wash,  scrub  and  scrape  off  the  very  thin 
skin.  Cut  each  carrot  into  slices  from  one-fourth  to  one- 
fifth  inch  thick,  cut  into  cubes  and  cook  in  boiling  salted 
water  until  soft,  forty-five  to  sixty  minutes.  They  may  be 
served  plain  with  a  little  melted  butter,  salt  and  pepper,  or 
they  may  be  mashed  and  seasoned  as  above. 

Creamed  Carrots.  Pour  Creamed  Sauce  No.  I  over  boiled 
cubed  carrot,  reheat  and  serve. 

CAULIFLOWER 

1  serving   ( 4  ozs. )  =  35  Calories. 

Boiled  Cauliflower.     Cut  off  stalk  and  remove  leaves  of 

cauliflower.     Soak  thirty  minutes  in  cold  water  to  cover,  head 

down.     Cook,  head  up,  twenty  to  thirty  minutes,  or  until  soft, 

in  boiling  salted  water.     Drain  and  separate  flowerets. 

Creamed  Cauliflower.  Pour  Cream  Sauce  No.  I  over  boiled 
cauliflower,  reheat  and  serve. 

CELERY 
1  serving   (2  ozs.)  =6  Calories. 
Scrape   celery.     Cut   stalks   in   one-half   inch   pieces   and 
cook  uncovered  in  boiling  salted  water  twenty  to  thirty  min- 
utes.    Serve  with  Cream  Sauce  No.  I  poured  over  it.     Sauce 


VEGETABLES  269 

can  be  made  using  part  milk  and  part  water  in  which  celery 
was  cooked. 

SPINACH  —  DANDELIONS  —  BEET  GREENS 
1  serving  (4  ozs.)  =27  Calories. 
Remove  roots,  pick  over  carefully  (discarding  wilted  leaves) 
and  wash  thoroughly  in  many  waters  until  free  from  sand; 
cook  in  boiling  salted  water,  allowing  one-fourth  as  much 
water  as  greens.  Cook  twenty-five  to  thirty  minutes.  Drain 
and  chop  if  desired,  reheat,  season  with  butter  and  salt;  gar- 
nish with  slices  of  hard-cooked  egg.     Serve  with  vinegar. 

ONIONS 

1  serving   (4  ozs. )  =56  Calories. 

Boiled  Onions.  Put  onions  into  pan  of  cold  water  and  peel 
under  water.  Put  them  into  boiling  water  with  one  teaspoon 
salt  and  one-fourth  teaspoon  soda  to  one  quart  water.  After 
cooking  five  minutes  pour  off  the  water  and  add  fresh  boiling 
salted  water,  and  after  ten  minutes  change  the  water  again. 
Boil  until  tender  —  forty-five  to  sixty  minutes.  Drain  off 
the  water  and  add  a  little  milk,  cook  a  few  moments  and  add 
butter,  salt  and  pepper. 

Creamed  Onions.  Pour  Cream  Sauce  Xo.  I  over  boiled 
onions,  reheat  and  serve. 

Scalloped  Onions.  Place  onions  in  a  baking  dish  and  adcr 
(ream  Sauce  Xo.  I.  Cover  top  with  buttered  cracker  or 
bread  crumbs  and  bake  until  crumbs  are  a  golden  brown. 

PEAS  (GREEN  OR  CANNED) 
1  serving  (4  ozs.)  =114  Calories. 
Green  Peas.  Eemove  peas  from  pods,  cover  with  cold 
water  and  let  stand  one-half  hour.  Skim  off  small  peas  that 
come  to  the  top  and  drain  remaining  peas.  Cook  until  soft, 
thirty  to  forty-five  minutes,  in  a  small  quantity  of  water. 
There  should  be  little  or  no  water  to  drain  from  peas  when 
they  are  cooked.  A  small  quantity  of  sugar  may  be  added 
if  the  natural  sweetness  of  the  peas  has  been  lost.  Season 
with  butter  and  salt. 


JWO  VEGETABLE  OR  PLANT  FOODS 

Canned  Peas  should  be  drained  and  thoroughly  rinsed, 
cover  with  boiling  water,  boil  two  minutes  and  again  drain, 
then  add  a  small  quantity  of  boiling  water  and  cook  from 
five  to  ten  minutes.     Season  with  butter,  salt  and  pepper. 

Creamed  Peas  No.  I.  To  one-third  cup  of  cooked  peas 
add  one  teaspoon  of  flour  mixed  with  one-eighth  teaspoon  of 
sugar.  Cook  slightly  and  add  one  tablespoon  of  cream,  and 
salt  and  pepper  to  taste.  =  75  calories. 

Creamed  Peas  No.  II.  Pour  Cream  Sauce  No.  I  over 
drained  cooked  peas,  reheat  and  serve. 

STRING  BEANS 
1  serving   (4  ozs.)  =  44  Calories. 

Eemove  strings  from  beans  and  cut  or  snap  into  one  inch 
pieces.  Wash  and  cook  in  boiling  water  until  tender  (one 
to  three  hours).  Drain  and  season  with  butter  and  salt. 
Cook  beans  in  as  little  water  as  possible.  Select  fresh  beans 
that  will  snap  easily. 

STEWED  TOMATOES 

1  medium   tomato    =16  Calories. 

I  cup  canned  tomato =51  Calories. 

Canned  or  fresh  tomatoes  may  be  used.  To  prepare  fresh 
tomatoes  wash,  pour  boiling  water  over  them  and  then  peel 
and  cut  into  pieces,  put  in  saucepan  and  cook  slowly  twenty 
minutes,  stirring  occasionally.  Add  a  few  bread  or  cracker 
crumbs  and  season  with  butter,  salt  and  pepper.  Bread  and 
cracker  crumbs  may  be  omitted.  A  little  sugar  may  be  added 
if  tomatoes  are  very  acid. 

BAKED  TOMATOES 
1  medium  tomato  =  16  Calories. 
Wash,  dry  and  remove  a  thin  slice  from  stem  end  of  to- 
mato. Eemove  seeds  and  pulp,  and  drain  off  most  of  the 
Liquid;  to  the  pulp  add  an  equal  quantity  of  cracker  crumbs, 
season  with  salt  and  pepper  and  a  little  chopped  onion,  or  a 
few  drops  of  onion  juice.     Refill  tomatoes  with  mixture  and 


VEGETABLE  SAUCES  271 

place    in    a    buttered    tin;    sprinkle    with    buttered    cracker 
crumbs,  bake  twenty  to  thirty  minutes  in  a  hot  oven. 

SCALLOPED  TOMATOES  (FOR  THE  DIABETIC),  165  CALORIES 

(Individual  Rule.) 
1  large  ripe  tomato.  3  Gum  Gluten  Biscuit  Crisps. 

Salt,  pepper.  2  teaspoons  butter. 

Into  a  well-buttered  individual  baking  dish  place  one 
crushed  Biscuit  Crisp;  and  place  on  top  of  this  one-half 
the  tomato,  from  which  the  skin  has  been  removed  and  then 
cut  in  small  pieces;  season  well  with  salt,  pepper  and  bits  of 
butter.  Add  another  layer  of  crumbs  (one  crushed  Biscuit 
Crisp),  then  the  remaining  tomato  and  seasoning,  lastly 
crumbs.  Place  bits  of  butter  on  top,  put  in  slow  oven  and 
bake  twenty  to  thirty  minutes. 

VEGETABLE  SAUCES 

CREAM  OR  WHITE  SATJCE  NO.  I,  152  CALORIES  i 

Use  to  pour  over  any  vegetable. 
(Individual  Rule.) 
y2  cup  milk  or  thin  cream.  ^4  saltspoon  salt. 

y2  tablespoon  butter.  Speck  white  pepper. 

y2  tablespoon  flour. 

Scald  the  milk.  Melt  the  butter  in  a  saucepan,  remove 
from  stove,  add  the  flour,  then  the  scalding  milk  gradually, 
put  over  heat  and  cook,  stirring  constantly,  until  smooth 
and  there  is  no  raw  taste  of  starch. 

This  sauce  may  be  used  in  many  ways  —  with  creamed  oys- 
-weetbreads,  any  cream  dish  or  any  scalloped  dish.  If 
a  thick  sauce  is  desired,  use  one  tablespoon  of  flour  in  place 
of  one-half. 

CREAM  SAUCE  NO.  II.  134  CALORIES 
(Individual  Rule.) 
V2  cup  milk  or  thin  cream.  1   teaspoon  butter. 


%  teaspoon  salt. 


1  Calculated   with   milk. 


272  VEGETABLE  OR  PLANT  FOODS 

Scald  the  cream.  Wet  the  flour  with  a  little  cold  milk  to 
make  a  smooth  mixture,  and  add  to  the  hot  cream.  Cook 
well.  Just  before  serving  add  the  butter  and  salt,  and  pep- 
per if  d«sired. 

Sauce  blended  in  this  way  is  especially  easy  of  digestion. 
If  a  thick  sauce  is  desired,  use  one  tablespoon  of  flour  in  place 
of  one-half. 

SALADS  AND  SALAD  DRESSINGS 

The  salad  plants,  such  as  lettuce,  celery,  water  cress,  en- 
dives, etc.,  contain  little  nutriment,  but  are  especially  rich 
in  mineral  matter,  and  served  uncooked  in  the  form  of  salad, 
all  this  mineral  matter  :"-  preserved.  They  are  very  valuable, 
as  these  mineral  substances  are  necessary  for  the  healthy 
condition  of  the  blood  and  should  form  a  large  part  of  the 
daily  diet. 

Salads  should  not  be  eaten  by  dyspeptics  or  those  having 
delicate  bowels. 

Salads  should  be  prepared  daintily,  arranged  attractively 
and  always  be  served  cold.  Lettuce  and  other  salad  plants 
should  be  fresh,  crisp,  and  dry.  Wash  thoroughly,  on  account 
of  danger  of  germs  from  dust,  soil,  etc.,  chill  in  very  cold 
water  until  crisp  and  dry  by  placing  on  a  clean  towel  so  that 
the  water  will  drain  from  the  leaves;  or  fold  lightly  in  a 
towel  and  place  on  ice  until  serving  time.  Parsley  is  re- 
vived quickly  by  sprinkling  with  cold  water  and  putting  it 
into  an  air-tight  fruit  jar  and  keeping  it  in  a  cold  place. 
Treated  in  this  way  it  will  keep  fresh  a  long  time. 

Dressing  should  not  be  added  to  green  vegetables  until 
just  before  serving,  as  it  tends  to  wilt  them. 

Meat  to  be  used  in  salads  should  be  free  from  skin  and 
gristle,  and  should  be  cut  into  small  cubes,  mixed  with  French 
dressing  and  allowed  to  stand  some  time  before  combining 
with  the  vegetables. 

A  dainty  salad  served  with  a  crisp  cracker  or  cheese  wafer 


SALAD  DRESSING  273 

forms  an  acceptable  luncheon  for  the  convalescent.     It  may 
also  be  served  with  dinner. 

FRENCH  DRESSING,  270  CALORIES 

(Individual  Rule,  y3  of  Recipe.) 

1  tablespoon  vinegar.  y3  teaspoon  salt. 

2  tablespoons  Xicelle  olive  oil.        %  saltspoon  pepper. 

Mix  all  ingredients  thoroughly  and  pour  over  salad  just 
before  serving. 

BOILED  DRESSING,   483   CALORIES 

(Individual  Rule,  %  of  Recipe.) 

1  teaspoon  salt.  1  egg. 

y2  teaspoon  mustard.  %  cup  milk. 

Speck  cayenne.  2  tablespoons  butter. 

2  tablespoons  sugar.  %  cup  vinegar. 

Mix  all  dry  ingredients.  Beat  egg  in  double  boiler,  add 
dry  ingredients,  butter  and  milk;  cook  over  hot  water,  stir- 
ring constantly  until  thick  like  custard;  add  vinegar;  cool 
and  serve. 

Note. —  If  it  curdles,  beat  over  cold  water  until  smooth. 

MAYONNAISE  DRESSING,  2570  CALORIES 
(Individual  Rule,  *4  of  Recipe.) 

1  teaspoon  mustard.  Yolks  2  eggs. 

2  teaspoons  powdered  sugar.  1%  cups  Nicelle  olive  oil. 
1  teaspoon  salt.                                   2  tablespoons  vinegar. 
Speck  cayenne.                                     2  tablespoons  lemon  juice. 

Mix  dry  ingredients,  add  to  yolks  and  mix  thoroughly. 
Add  a  few  drops  of  oil  at  a  time  until  one-half  cup  is  used, 
beating  with  egg-beater  or  wooden  spoon.  Then  add  al- 
ternately a  few  drops  of  vinegar  and  lemon  juice  and  the 
remainder  of  the  oil,  using  care  not  to  lose  the  stiff  con- 
sistency. It  should  be  a  thick  dressing  and  not  added  to 
food  until  just  before  serving. 

Note. —  Have  all  ingredients  and  utensils  thoroughly 
chilled  and  place  mixing  bowl  in  a  pan  of  crushed  ice  while 
blending. 


274      VEGETABLE  OR  PLANT  FOODS 

If  dressing  curdles,  take  another  egg  yolk  and  add  the 
curdled  mixture  to  it  slowly,  beating  constantly. 

Note. —  One-half  or  one-fourth  of  recipe  may  be  prepared. 
As  it  will  keep  well  it  is  best  to  prepare  in  larger  quantity, 
thus  saving  labor. 

CREAM  DRESSING,  1697  CALORIES 
(For  Fruit  Salads.) 
y2  cup  butter.  1  teaspoon  mustard. 

2  tablespoons  flour.  1  tablespoon  cider  vinegar. 

1  cup  scalded  milk.  1  teaspoon  salt. 

3  yolks  of  eggs.  %  cup  vinegar. 
3  whites  of  eggs.                                 %  cup  sugar. 

(a)  Melt  butter  in  a  saucepan,  add  flour  and  pour  on 
gradually  the  scalding  milk,  cook  thoroughly,  stirring  con- 
stantly, (b)  Beat  yolks  in  top  of  double  boiler,  add  the 
mustard  (dissolved  in  one  tablespoon  of  vinegar),  salt  and 
vinegar.  Pour  (a)  gradually  on  the  egg  mixture  and  cook 
over  hot  water  until  it  thickens  like  soft  custard,  remove  from 
fire,  add  the  sugar  and  fold  in  the  stiffly-beaten  white  of  eggs. 
Pour  into  glass  fruit  jar,  cool  and  cover  and  keep  on  ice. 
This  dressing  will  keep  a  long  time  and  is  especially  delicious 
to  serve  with  fruit  salads. 

CHICKEN    SALAD,   856    CALORIES 

(Six  Servings.) 

2  cups  cut  chicken.  y2  saltspoon  pepper. 

1  cup  cut  celery.  1  tablespoon  vinegar. 

2  tablespoons  Nicelle  olive  oil.        2  tablespoons  mayonnaise. 
1  saltspoon  salt. 

Mayonnaise,  olives,  celery  leaves  or  white  lettuce  for  gar- 
nishing. 

Cut  the  cold  chicken  into  small  dice ;  cut  the  cleaned  celery 
into  small  uniform  pieces.  Mix  these  together  and  pour  over 
the  oil.  Mix  well,  then  sprinkle  with  salt  and  pepper  to 
taste;  add  the  vinegar,  blend  and  put  in  colander  to  drain; 
set  in  a  cold  place  for  two  or  three  hours.  Just  before  serv- 
ing add  the  mayonnaise,  put  on  a  bed  of  lettuce  and  garnish. 

Note. —  Do  not  mince  chicken. 


SALADS  275 

FRUIT    SALADS 

Any  combination  of  fruit  desired  may  be  used  serred  with 
"  Cream  Dressing."  An  attractive  combination  is  a  banana 
peeled,  cut  in  half  crosswise.  Cut  one-half  lengthwise,  ar- 
range on  lettuce  leaf,  add  a  little  Cream  Dressing  and  gar- 
nish with  malaga  grapes  (cut  in  half  and  seeded)  and  small 
pieces  of  English  walnuts. 

MARGUERITE  SALAD 

One  hard-cooked  egg  cut  crosswise.  Bemove  yolk.  Cut 
white  in  slices,  petal  fashion,  arrange  on  lettuce  leaf  like  a 
marguerite  and  fill  the  center  with  the  yolk  put  through  the 
potato-ricer  or  strainer.  Garnish  with  parsley  and  6erve 
with  French,  boiled  or  mayonnaise  dressing. 

MIXED  SALAD 
Equal  proportions  of  green  peas  (cooked  and  drained), 
celery  cut  in  thin  slices  and  English  walnuts  cut  into  small 
pieces.  Season  with  salt  and  pepper,  add  mayonnaise  and 
serve  on  lettuce  leaves.  Garnish  with  ripe  cherries  on  the 
stem  with  blanched  hazel  nuts  put  in  place  of  stones. 

SWEETBREAD    SALAD 
Mix  equal  parts  of  parboiled  sweetbreads  cut  into  one-half 
inch  cubes  and  celery  cut  into  thin  slices.     Season  with  salt 
and   moisten   with   mayonnaise   dressing.     Arrange    daintily 
on  lettuce  leaves. 

ORANGE  AND  DATE  SALAD.  1373  CALORIES 

Separate  one  package  Dromedary  Dates,  cover  with  boiling 
water  and  cook  for  two  or  three  minutes.  Drain,  ano^drv  in 
an  oven,  cool.  >tone  and  cut  in  halve-  lengthwise.  Halve  four 
large  oranges  and  cut  out  the  sections  of  pulp.  Arrange 
crisp  lettuce  leaves  on  a  platter,  pile  the  orange  in  the  centre 
and  surround  with  the  dates.  Serve  with  French  dressing. 
WALDORF  SALAD 

Mix  equal  parts  of  apples,  pared  and  cut  into  small  cubes, 
celery  sliced  in  thin  circles  and   English   walnuts  cut  into 


276      VEGETABLE  OR  PLANT  FOODS 

small  pieces.  Season  with  salt  and  moisten  with  mayonnaise. 
Serve  on  lettuce  leaf,  garnished  with  a  spoonful  of  whipped 
cream  and  halves  of  English  walnuts  or  pecans. 

WATER  LILY  SALAD 

One  hard-cooked  egg.  Cut  in  halves  crosswise  in  fence 
fashion;  remove  yolk,  put  through  strainer  and  refill  white. 
Serve  on  shredded  lettuce  leaves  and  garnish  with  parsley. 
Serve  with  French,  boiled  or  mayonnaise  dressing. 

CHEESE  WAFERS 

Butter  wafer  crackers  and  sprinkle  thickly  with  grated 
cheese.  Put  in  oven  and  bake  till  cheese  is  melted  and  crack- 
ers are  a  delicate  brown.  Arrange  on  small  plate  with  doily. 
Serve  with  salad. 

CHEESE  GLUTEN  BISCUIT  CRISPS   (FOR  THE  DIABETIC) 

Put  grated  cheese  on  Gum  Gluten  Biscuit  Crisps,  place  in 
moderate  oven  until  the  cheese  is  melted.  Serve  while  hot. 
Gum  Gluten  Biscuit  Crisps  may  be  spread  with  cream  cheese 
and  served  with  salad. 

FRUITS1 

Fruits  are  the  seed-bearing  portions  of  plants.  Some 
products  of  this  class,  such  as  melons,  are  sometimes  called 
fruits  and  sometimes  vegetables ;  and  a  few  vegetable  products 
which  are  not  fruits  in  the  strict  sense,  are  included  in  this 
class  of  food  products  because  they  have  a  similar  place  in 
the  diet. 

Composition.  Fresh  fruits  contain  a  high  percentage  of 
water,  varying  from  about  75  per  cent,  to  over  95  per  cent. 
It  has  been  suggested  that  those  containing  80  per  cent,  or 
more  of  water  be  classed  as  flavor  fruits,  and  those  with  less 
than  80  per  cent,  as  food  fruits :  Bananas,  grapes  and  fresh 
figs  are  the  commonest  examples  of  the  latter  class.  When 
the  water  is  removed  by  evaporation,  as  in  drying,  the  per- 

1  For  further  information,  note  "  Uses  of  Fruit  as  Food."  Farmer's  Bulle- 
tin No.   293,    U.   S.   Dept.   of  Agriculture,   Washington,   D.  O. 


i 


FRUITS  277 

centage  of  moisture  falls  to  30  per  cent,  or  less,  and  the 
proportion  of  nutrients  is  correspondingly  raised,  so  that 
dried  fruits  would  fall  into  the  class  of  food  fruits.  Pre- 
served fruits  have  their  nutritive  value  raised  by  the  addition 
of  water,  and  usually  by  some  loss  of  water  in  preparation. 

As  a  class,  fruits  contain  little  or  no  fat.  The  olive  is  a 
remarkable  exception. 

The  proportion  of  protein  is  so  low  as  to  be  practically 
negligible. 

Carbohydrates  are  the  chief  nutrient  present.  In  ripe 
fruits  these  are  almost  wholly  in  the  form  of  sugars  and  other 
soluble  carbohydrates,  commonly  called  pectin  bodies.  In 
unripe  fruits  starch  is  often  found  —  notably  in  the  ordinary 
banana.  The  principal  sugars  are  sucrose  or  cane  sugar,  dex- 
trose or  grape  sugar,  and  levulose  or  fruit  sugar.  A  mix- 
ture of  the  last  two  is  common,  and  is  called  invert  sugar. 

Fruits  contain  characteristic  organic  acids,  such  as  malic 
in  apples,  citric  in  lemons,  etc.  These  acids  exist  in  the  form 
of  salts,  usually  of  potassium.  A  little  phosphoric  acid,  lime, 
iron,  etc.,  also  occur. 

The  flavor  is  due  partly  to  the  sugars  and  acids,  and  partly 
to  characteristic  ethereal  bodies  present  in  small  quantities. 
Chemists  have  isolated  the  ethers  and  oils  which  give  the 
peculiar  flavor  to  bananas,  strawberries  and  other  fruits. 

Digestibility.  Digestibility  of  fruits  varies  with  the  kind 
of  fruit  eaten  and  its  mode  of  preparation;  stewed  fruits  are 
more  easily  digested  than  raw  fruits.  Personal  idiosyncracy 
has  also  much  to  do  with  digestibility  in  case  of  this  class 
of  food  materials.  Oranges,  lemons,  grapes  and  peaches  are 
very  generally  digested  with  ease.  Oranges  are  much  used 
in  invalid  dietaries,  their  juice  being  very  effective  in  allay- 
ing thirst.  Orange  juice  is  also  commonly  administered  to 
infants,  especially  if  fed  artificially,  for  the  sake  of  the  min- 
eral matter  and  to  prevent  constipation. 

It  is  important  to  those  who  are  obliged  to  exclude  sugar 
from  the  dietary  to  know  that  fruits  containing  the  least 
sugar   are   the   plum,   peach,   apricot   and   raspberry.     Those 


278 


VEGETABLE  OR  PLANT  FOODS 


containing  the  largest  amounts  are  the  apple,  sweet  cherry, 
grape  and  pear. 

The  apple  exerts  a  most  excellent  influence  upon  the  liver 
and  kidneys,  and  is  valuable  in  cases  of  acidity  of  the  stom- 
ach. 

The  juice  of  the  ripe  pineapple  contains  a  remarkable  ac- 
tive digestive  principle,  similar  to  pepsin,  termed  bromelin, 
and  so  powerful  is  its  action  upon  proteids  that  it  will  digest 
as  much  as  one  thousand  times  its  weight  within  a  few  hours. 
It  is  especially  valuable  in  diphtheria  and  diabetes. 

Dates,  figs  and  prunes  are  valuable  for  inactivity  of  the 
liver  and  most  excellent  laxatives.  Dates  owing  to  their 
high  food  value  and  sweetness  offer  sugar  in  a  most  harm- 
less form  to  the  child  and  are  as  satisfactory  to  them  as  candy. 

The  banana  contains  a  large  amount  of  starch,  as  much  as 
the  potato ;  therefore  it  should  not  be  eaten  in  an  unripe  state. 
For  invalids  and  children  and  others  of  delicate  digestion,  it 
should  always  be  cooked. 

Grape  juice  and  other  freshly  expressed  juices  are  refresh- 
ing and  wholesome  beverages,  and  can  often  be  given  to  in- 
valids when  the  pulp  would  prove  irritating. 

Nutritive  Value.  Fresh  fruits  are  chiefly  valuable  for 
their  refreshing,  appetizing  qualities,  and  for  their  mineral 
constituents.  The  organic  acids  form  carbonates  in  the  body, 
and  by  their  alkalinity  assist  in  the  regulation  of  body 
processes. 

In  disturbed  conditions  of  metabolism  it  is  often  important 
to  know  just  what  salts  and  acids  fruits  contain. 

As  already  stated,  the  chief  nutrients  are  carbohydrates. 
In  fuel  value,  fresh  fruits  resemble  given  vegetables,  as  is 
shown  by  the  following  figures : 


Kind  of  Fresh  Fruit.       Calories 
Per. 
Pound. 

Apples   290 

Blackberries   270 

Oranges 240 

Peaches   190 


Kind  of  Green  Calories 

Vegetables.  Per. 

Pound. 

Beans,  string,  fresh 195 

Beets,  fresh    215 

Carrots,   fresh    210 

Onions,  fresh 205 


FRUITS  279 

The  dried  fruits  compare  favorably  with  bread,  dried  beans 
and  similar  foods  as  to  energy  value,  but  the  latter  contain 
protein  in  considerable  amounts,  while  in  fruits  it  occurs  only 
in  small  quantities.  The  fuel  value  of  fruits  is  often  in- 
creased by  the  sugar  added  in  cooking  or  serving. 

Fruits  are  also  valuable  for  bulk,  which  is  an  essential 
factor  in  diet.  Most  of  them  contain  a  considerable  propor- 
tion of  indigestible  matter.  Intelligently  used,  fruits  are  a 
valuable  part  of  a  well-balanced  diet,  and  their  use  should 
be  encouraged. 

Precautions  in  the  Use  of  Fruit.  Over-ripe  or  unripe  fruit 
should  not  be  eaten  raw;  besides  inferior  flavor  there  is  dan- 
ger of  digestive  disturbance. 

Before  serving,  all  fruit  should  be  thoroughly  washed  to 
avoid  germs.  Digestive  disturbances  are  more  often  caused 
by  these  germs  than  by  the  fruit  itself.  There  is  danger 
also  of  acquiring  harmful  intestinal  parasites  from  raw 
fruits;  in  all  doubtful  cases,  the  food  should  be  cooked. 

BAKED  APPLES 
1  medium  apple  =  70  Calories. 
Wipe  and  core  apples.  Put  in  a  shallow  dish  with  one- 
tablespoon  water  to  each  apple;  more  may  be  added  during 
cooking  if  necessary,  put  into  the  center  of  each  apple  two- 
teaspoons  sugar.  Bake  in  a  hot  oven  twenty  to  thirty  min- 
utes, or  until  soft;  baste  with  the  syrup  every  ten  minutes. 
A  little  nutmeg  may  be  added  to  the  sugar,  and  a  few  drops 
of  lemon  juice  to  each  apple.  Care  must  be  taken  that  apples 
do  not  lose  their  shape  and  break. 

STEWED   APPLE   SAUCE,   90   CALORIES 

Wash,  pare,  core  and  slice  one  apple;  put  in  saucepan  and 
add  one  teaspoon  sugar  and  enough  boiling  water  to  partly 
cover.  Cover  and  cook  slowly  without  stirring  until  trans- 
parent and  tender.  Appetizing  to  serve  with  any  breakfast 
food. 

Pears  and  peaches  may  be  cooked  in  the  same  way. 


280      VEGETABLE  OR  PLANT  FOODS 

APPLES   CUBAN   STYLE 

Pare  and  core  sound,  tart  apples.  Steam  until  almost  ten- 
der; remove  to  a  buttered  pan;  fill  cavities  with  cocoanut, 
stick  apples  full  of  blanched  almonds,  baste  with  syrup  made 
of  sugar,  water  and  lemon  juice.  Finish  cooking  in  a  hot 
oven,  basting  often.  When  serving,  fill  the  cavities  with 
jelly  or  the  jellied  juice. 

APRICOT  AND  PRUNE  SAUCE,  178  CALORIES  i 
1  cup  cold  water. 
Sugar  to  taste. 

Wash  fruit  carefully;  soak  over  night  and  cook  slowly  for 
two  hours.  If  cooked  properly  the  fruit  will  need  very  little 
sugar,  as  the  sugar  in  the  fruit  is  developed  by  this  method 
of  cooking. 

BAKED  BANANA 
1  medium  banana  =  64  Calories. 

Eaw,  this  fruit  is  often  indigestible,  but  baked  it  acts  as 
a  stimulant  to  the  nerves,  being  at  once  received  and  rapidly 
assimilated  by  the  stomach.  Cut  bananas  in  halves;  put  in 
shallow  pan ;  sprinkle  with  sugar  and  a  little  lemon  juice  and 
bake  until  soft. 

Note. —  The  banana  contains  starch  and  should  be  thor- 
oughly ripened  before  eating. 

CRANBERRY  SAUCE   OR  JELLY 
1  cup  cranberries.  y2  cup  water. 

y3  cup  sugar. 

Pick  over  and  wash  cranberries.  Put  in  saucepan  and  add 
sugar  and  water,  bring  to  the  boiling  point  and  boil  fifteen 
minutes.     Strain  and  cool. 

For  jelly  use  one-half  cup  sugar  and  one-quarter  cup  water 
and  after  straining  put  into  molds. 

BAKED  LEMON  OR  ORANGE 
Bake  a  lemon  or  a  sour  orange  in  a  moderate  oven  for 
twenty  minutes.     When  done,  open  at  one  end  and  take  out 

1  Without  sugar. 


FRUITS  281 

the  inside.     Sweeten  with  sugar  or  molasses.     This  is  excel- 
lent for  hoarseness  and  pressure  on  the  lungs. 

ORANGE   SUNFLOWER 

Wash  the  orange.  Put  a  three-tined  fork  into  the  stem 
end.  Cut  off  each  end  down  to  pulp,  leaving  the  stem  end 
on  fork,  then  pare  off  rind  to  pulp,  cut  out  each  section  and 
place  on  small  plate  in  sunflower  fashion,  the  pieces  of  pulp 
for  petals;  fill  centre  with  granulated  sugar.     Serve  cold. 

Note. —  To  cut  nicely  have  a  large,  firm,  cold  orange  and 
a  sharp  knife. 

ORANGE   NO.  II 

1  medium  orange  =  17  Calories. 

Select  a  large,  firm  orange;  wash,  cut  and  peel  skin  down 
in  eight  parts,  leaving  them  connected  to  stem  end  of  orange 
to  form  the  petals,  folding  them  under  the  pulp.  Separate 
pulp  in  sections  and  put  ice  between  petals  before  serving. 

DATE  SAUCE 

Prepare  apples  as  for  stewing  and  partially  cook.  Add 
equal  quantity  of  stoned  Dromedary  Dates,  and  sugar  to 
taste.     Cook  until  dates  are  tender.     Serve  either  hot  or  cold. 

DATES  FOR  YOUNG  CHILDREN 

Wash  the  dates  and  lay  in  water  for  fifteen  minutes,  then 
remove  and  dry ;  take  off  the  outer  skin  and  remove  the  stone ; 
put  through  meat  chopper ;  add  two  teaspoons  of  orange  juice 
to  each  cup  of  dates.  This  is  good  on  toast  or  crackers  and  is 
very  nourishing.  It  can  be  prepared  and  kept  on  hand  sum- 
mer and  winter. 

STEWED  PRUNES 

3  prunes  =  72  Calories. 

"Wash  and  look  over  the  prunes,  (over  with  clear  cold  water 

and  allow  to  stand  on  the  back  of  range  over  night.     In  the 

morning  put  the  saucepan  where  they  will  cook  slowly  for 

four  hours. 


282      VEGETABLE  OR  PLANT  FOODS 

Note. —  No  sugar  is  needed  as  prunes  are  18  per  cent,  sugar, 
and  by  this  manner  of  cooking  are  made  very  sweet.  This 
simmering  process  renders  them  rich  and  juicy,  while  boiling 
toughens  the  skin.  A  little  lemon  juice  is  a  pleasant  addi- 
tion. 

Prunes  are  a  valuable  nutrient,  and  their  use  as  a  laxative 
is  scarcely  second  to  figs. 

STEAMED   RHUBARB,   234   CALORIES  i 
1   cup  rhubarb    ( 4   oz. ) .  %  to  %  cup  sugar. 

Wash  the  rhubarb  and  cut  it  into  inch  pieces  without  re- 
moving the  skin,  as  this  gives  a  pretty  pink  color  to  the  juice. 
Put  it  into  an  agate  double  boiler  without  water  and  steam 
one-half  hour,  or  until  soft.  Do  not  stir,  as  it  breaks  the 
pieces.  Sweeten  to  taste  at  once  on  taking  from  fire.  If 
rhubarb  cooks  a  minute  too  long  —  which  means  after  it  has 
.gone  to  pieces  —  it  will  lose  its  delicious  flavor. 

Khubarb  is  rich  in  oxalic  acid,  which  does  much  to  tone 
the  system. 

STEWED   FIGS,  936   CALORIES 
y2  pound  figs.  1  cup  cold  water. 

*4  cup  white  sugar.  Juice  %  lemon. 

Wash  figs.  Dissolve  sugar  in  the  water ;  add  figs  and  bring 
slowly  to  boiling  point.  Stew  two  and  one-half  hours ;  when 
tender,  add  lemon  juice. 

Note. —  Cut  figs  in  small  pieces ;  cook  very  slowly  so  as 
not  to  add  more  water. 

DATE  BON  BONS 

1  date    =  20-25  Calories. 

1  walnut  meat   =   6-  8  Calories. 

Put  salted  almonds,  or  fourths  of  English  walnuts  into  the 
inside  of  dates  that  have  been  cut  open  and  stones  removed. 
Poll  in  powdered  or  granulated  sugar  and  serve. 

1  Calculated  with    *4    cup   sugar;   with    %    cup   sugar  =  444  calories. 


NUTS  283 

NUTS1 

Nuts  enter  but  little  into  the  invalid's  dietary,  but  as  more 
attention  is  being  paid  to  means  of  rendering  them  di- 
gestible, a  word  concerning  them  is  not  out  of  place. 

Composition.  The  edible  substance  of  nuts  is  concentrated 
food,  containing  little  water,  and  with  few  exceptions,  much 
fat.  In  general,  nuts  are  also  rich  in  protein.  The  average 
composition  is  as  follows: 

Water    1-4% 

Protein    6-15% 

Fats   40-50% 

Carbohydrates    6-10% 

The  only  common  nut  containing  much  carbohydrate  is  the 
chestnut,  which  contains  73  per  cent.  The  pignolia,  peanut, 
butternut,  almond,  beechnut  and  pistachio  contain  over  20 
per  cent,  of  protein.  The  pecan,  brazil  nut,  butternut,  filbert,, 
hickory  nut  and  walnut  contain  over  60  per  cent,  of  fat. 

The  ash  content  is  comparatively  high.  Walnuts,  almonds,, 
etc.,  are  rich  in  phosphoric  acid. 

Cooking  of  Nuts.  Nuts  are  more  often  eaten  raw  than 
cooked.  But  the  peanut  is  not  considered  palatable  when  raw? 
and  the  chestnut  is  very  indigestible  unless  the  starch  is 
cooked,  when  it  becomes  very  easily  digestible.  Almonds  are 
widely  used  in  confectionery. 

Xuts  may  be  used  as  staple  articles  of  diet,  in  salad,  soups, 
desserts,  etc. 

To  insure  the  best  utilization  of  nuts  they  must  be  thor- 
oughly prepared  for  digestion  by  grinding  or  mastication. 
Xut  butters  offer  much  less  resistance  to  digestion  than  raw 
nuts  hastily  eaten.  On  account  of  the  high  fat  content, 
these  products  must  be  fresh,  or  the  fat  is  likely  to  decompose 
(become  rancid)  and  be  irritating. 

Xut  flours  and  meals  are  made  into  bread  or  porridge. 
Almond  meal  (containing  no  starch  and  very  little  sugar) 
is  often  utilized  as  a  bread  for  diabetics.     The  chestnut  can- 

1  For  further  information,  note  "  Nuts  and  Their  Uses  as  Food,"  Farmer'* 
Bulletin   No.   332,   U.   S.   Dept.   of  Agriculture,    Washington,    D.  C. 


284      VEGETABLE  OB  PLANT  FOODS 

not  be  so  used,  on  account  of  its  high  content  of  starch.  The 
peanut  contains  about  11  per  cent,  of  carbohydrates,  and 
hence  is  undesirable  for  this  purpose. 

Digestibility.  Nuts  have  been  considered  very  indigestible. 
This  is  due  largely  to  improper  mastication  or  other  prepara- 
tion for  digestion;  to  the  fact  that  they  are  a  very  concen- 
trated food,  and  are  often  eaten  when  not  needed.  While 
nut  protein,  as  nuts  are  ordinarily  eaten,  is  not  so  easily  nor 
completely  digested  as  meat  protein,  there  are  experiments 
showing  that  on  the  whole,  they  are  as  thoroughly  digested 
as  an  ordinary  mixed  diet.  No  experiments  have  been  re- 
ported on  the  ease  or  rapidity  of  nut  digestion. 

Nutritive  Value.  Nuts  are  a  concentrated  food.  This  is 
clearly  shown  by  the  following  figures : 

1  lb.  of  Almonds     yield  2895  Calories. 

1  lb.  of  Brazil  nuts    yield  3120  Calories. 

1  lb.  of  Filberts     ' yield  3100  Calories. 

1   lb.  of  Hickory    yield  3345  Calories. 

1  lb.  of  Peanuts    yield  2610  Calories. 

1  lb.  of  Walnuts    yield  3075  Calories. 

The  high  fuel  value  is  due  to  the  absence  of  water  and  the 
large  amount  of  fat  present.  Nuts  can  be  most  advan- 
tageously used  along  with  bulky  foods,  such  as  fruits  and 
vegetables,  and  those  lacking  in  fat,  such  as  bread.  In  a 
vegetarian  diet  they  become  a  valuable  source  of  protein. 

FUNGI  AND  ALGiE 

These  substances  have  little  nutritive  value.  They  may  be 
considered  as  food  adjuncts,  rather  than  foods  proper. 

Of  fungi,  mushrooms  are  the  most  commonly  eaten.  They 
are  prized  for  their  delicate  flavor.  Chemical  analysis  shows 
a  high  percentage  of  nitrogen,  but  although  reported  as  pro- 
tein, it  is  largely  in  an  indigestible  form. 

Algge  and  lichens  are  much  used  as  food  in  some  parts  of 
the  world  and  high  claims  are  sometimes  made  for  their 
nutritive  value,  but  digestion  experiments  show  that,  although 


FUNGI  AND  ALGM  285 

they  have  a  similar  carbohydrate  content  to  other  succulent 
vegetable  foods,  these  carbohydrates  are  not  attacked  by  the 
ordinary  digestive  enzymes  of  the  alimentary  tract. 

The  most  important  alga,  from  the  dietetic  standpoint,  is 
Irish  moss.  It  is  commonly  used  in  making  jellies  or  sooth- 
ing beverages  for  invalids,  but  it  has  no  nutritive  value 
whatsoever. 

The  lichen  most  used  as  food  is  Iceland  moss.  It  has 
frequently  been  recommended  as  a  food  for  diebetics,  but  it 
is  practically  indigestible. 


CHAPTEE  XI 
NUTRITIOUS  DESSERTS 

HOT  AND  COLD  DESSERTS  — FROZEN  DESSERTS 

SOFT  CUSTARDS,  BAKED  CUSTARDS,  WHIPS  AND  SOUFFLES, 
JUNKET,  CORNSTARCH  PUDDINGS  OR  BLANC  MANGE,  RICE, 
TAPIOCA,  CRACKER  AND  BREAD  PUDDINGS,  SAUCES 

Properly  prepared,  the  dessert  may  constitute  a  very  large 
part  of  the  nutriment  represented  in  a  meal.  Dishes  con- 
taining eggs,  milk,  cream,  starches,  etc.,  in  large  proportion 
are  necessarily  of  high  nutritive  value,  and  become  a  useful 
means  of  administering  these  foods  to  patients  who  do  not 
care  for  the  flavor  of  plain  milk,  raw  eggs,  cereals,  etc.,  or 
who  are  likely  to  become  tired  of  them.  For  invalids,  com- 
binations of  foods  should  always  be  simple,  because  the  more 
complex  the  mixture  of  protein,  fat  and  carbohydrate,  the 
longer  and  more  complicated  is  the  process  of  digestion. 
Hence  junket,  which  is  simply  flavored,  coagulated  milk,  is 
one  of  the  most  digestible  of  desserts.  As  a  rule,  less  sugar 
is  relished  in  sickness  than  in  health;  an  excess  is  apt  to 
cause  nausea. 

Dainty  service  is  most  important.  Baked  custards  and 
junkets  are  usually  best  served  in  the  original  individual 
molds  to  avoid  danger  of  breaking,  or  in  case  of  junket,  of 
becoming  watery.  Sauces  should  never  be  poured  over  pud- 
dings till  the  moment  of  serving.  Care  must  be 'taken  to 
see  that  cold  desserts  are  thoroughly  chilled;  a  lukewarm 
custard  is  frequently  nauseating  and  always  unappetizing. 

For  the  Diabetic.  Omit  the  sugar  from  custards  and  add 
Sweetina  to  taste. 


286 


SOFT  CUSTARDS  287 


SOFT  CUSTARDS 

SOFT  CUSTARD  NO.  I,  192  CALORIES 

(Individual  Rule.) 

Yolk  1  egg.  Speck  salt. 

1  tablespoon  sugar.  %  CUP  milk. 

Scald  milk  in  double  boiler.  Beat  yolk,  add  salt  and  sugar 
and  pour  on  gradually  the  scalded  milk.  Pour  back  into 
top  of  double  boiler  and  stir  constantly  until  it  looks  creamy 
or  it  coats'  the  spoon  and  the  foam  has  disappeared;  then  re- 
move immediately  from  hot  water.  Cool  and  add  flavoring 
desired;  vanilla,  orange  or  lemon  extract. 

Note. —  If  custard  curdles,  place  saucepan  over  cold  water 
and  beat  until  smooth. 

This  custard  is  usually  used  for  pudding  sauces. 

SOFT  CUSTARD  NO.  II,  410  CALORIES 
(Two   Servings.) 

1  cup  milk.  y2  saltspoon  salt. 

2  eggs.  *4  teaspoon  vanilla  or  grating  of 
2  tablespoons  sugar.  nutmeg. 

Reserve  one  egg  white  for  meringue.  Blend  according  to 
Soft  Custard  Xo.  I.  This  custard  is  usually  used  as  a 
foundation  for  puddings. 

SOFT  CUSTARD  WITH  LACTOSE,  500  CALORIES  1 

Calories 
8  ounces  milk  ( 1  cup )    160 

1  egg     80 

2  ounces  of  milk  sugar  (about  4  tablespoons)    240 

Speck  of  salt 

2  to  3  drops  of  vanilla  or  Caramel  made  of  3  tablespoons 

of  granulated  sugar   20    (?) 

500 

Blend  according  to  Soft  Custard  Xo.  1.  To  make  caramel : 
put  the  sugar  in  a  pan  directly  over  heat  and  burn  until  a 
very  dark  brown.     Dissolve  in  hot  water  or  milk. 

1  Dr.  W.  Coleman,  American  Journal  of  Mfdiral  Sciences,  January,  1912. 


288  NUTRITIOUS  DESSERTS 

MERINGUE,  110  CALORIES  1 

1  egg  white.  2  tablespoons  powdered  sugar. 

Speck  salt.  Lemon  or  orange  juice. 

Beat  the  egg  until  stiff  and  dry;  add  the  salt,  sugar  and 
lemon  juice  to  taste.  Beat  very  little  after  adding  the  sugar. 
FLOATING  ISLAND,  506   CALORIES 

Chill  Soft  Custard  No.  II ;  pour  into  serving  dish  and  put 
meringue  on  top. 

ORANGE    CUSTARD 

Peel,  slice  and  remove  seeds  of  oranges,  put  into  serving 
dish.  Chill  Soft  Custard  No.  II,  pour  over  fruit  and  put 
meringue  on  top. 

BANANA    CUSTARD 

Peel  bananas  and  slice  very  thin  with  silver  knife;  put 
into  serving  dish  and  flavor  with  lemon  juice.  Chill  Soft 
Custard  No.  II,  pour  over  fruit  and  put  meringue  on  top. 

ALMOND   PUDDING 

Line  a  glass  dish  with  slices  of  stale  cake  and  put  in  some 
salted  almonds.  Pour  a  little  sherry  wine  on  the  cake.  Chill 
Soft  Custard  No.  II  and  pour  over.  Put  meringue  on  top, 
with  some  salted  almonds  in  it. 

BAKED  CUSTARDS 

BAKED    OR    CUP    CUSTARD,    319    CALORIES 

(Individual  Rule.) 
1  cup  milk.  iy2  tablespoon  sugar. 

1  egg.  Vz  saltspoon  salt. 

Flavoring  to  taste  —  nutmeg,  cinnamon,  vanilla,  or  lemon  extract. 

Scald  the  milk;  beat  egg,  add  sugar  and  salt  and  pour  on 
gradually  the  scalded  milk.  Flavor  to  taste  and  pour  into 
custard   cups;   place   in   deep   pan   and   pour   boiling  water 

l  Without  lemon  and  orange  juice. 


BAKED  CUSTARDS  289 

around  until  it  almost  reaches  the  top  of  cups.  Bake  in 
moderate  oven  about  twenty  minutes.  If  cinnamon  is  used 
for  flavor,  put  one-half  square  inch  into  the  milk  when  scald- 
ing. 

Note. —  To  test  when  done,  dip  a  pointed  knife  into  water 
and  plunge  into  the  middle  of  the  custard.  If  it  looks  set 
and  the  knife  comes  out  clear,  the  custard  is  done;  if  milky, 
it  is  not  cooked  enough.  If  cooked  too  long  the  custard  will 
curdle. 

BAKED   CUSTARD  NO.  II,  262   CALORIES 
(Individual  Rule.) 
%  cup  milk.  y3  saltspoon  salt. 

1  egg.  Nutmeg. 

1%  tablespoon  sugar.  %  teaspoon  vanilla. 

Blend  according  to  Baked  Custard  No.  I. 

The  smaller  quantity  of  milk  makes  a  little  firmer  custard. 

WHITE    CUSTARD,    163   CALORIES 

1  egg  white.  %  saltspoon  salt. 

1  tablespoon  sugar.  y2  cup  rich  milk. 

Beat  white  of  egg  until  very  light;  add  sugar  and  salt 
and  pour  on  gradually  the  milk.  Flavor  with  vanilla,  orange 
or  lemon  extract.  Bake  in  cups  set  in  pan  of  boiling  water 
in  a  moderate  oven  about  twenty  minutes.  When  firm  set 
on  ice  and  serve  cold.  This  may  be  taken  by  patient  when  the 
yolk  of  egg  is  prohibited. 

CHOCOLATE   CUSTARD,    250    CALORIES 

(Individual  Rule.) 

2  teaspoons  Walter  Baker's  choc-    2  egg  yolks. 
olate.  2  teaspoons  sugar. 

2  tablespoons  milk.  Speck  salt. 

6  tablespoons  rich  milk. 

Grate  chocolate  and  mix  with  the  two  tablespoons  milk; 
stir  over  the  fire  until  smooth,  add  the  rich  milk,  the  well- 
beaten  egg  yolks,  sugar  and  salt.  Pour  into  custard  cups  set 
in  pan  of  hot  water  (nearly  to  the  top).  Cook  until  custard 
is  set.     Serve  hot  or  cold. 


290  NUTRITIOUS  DESSERTS 

MALTED    MILK    CUSTARD,    107    CALORIES 

(Individual  Rule.) 
1     tablespoon    Horlick's    Malted    y2  cup  hot  water. 

Milk.  Salt. 

1  egg  yolk. 

Mix  the  Malted  Milk  powder  with  enough  of  the  hot 
water  to  make  a  smooth  paste,  add  remainder  of  water  and 
pour  it  gradually  on  to  the  well-beaten  yolk.  Butter  custard 
cup,  pour  in  the  mixture  and  let  it  stand  in  a  pan  of  boil- 
ing water  in  a  moderate  oven  until  custard  is  set. 

BAKED    CARAMEL   CUSTARD,   293   CALORIES 

(Individual  Rule.) 
%  cup  milk.  2  tablespoons  sugar. 

1  egg.  A  few  drops  of  vanilla. 

Speck  salt. 

Scald  the  milk.  Put  the  sugar  in  a  small  saucepan,  place 
over  heat  and  stir  constantly  until  the  sugar  is  melted  and 
a  light  brown  color.  Add  milk  and  pour  over  the  slightly- 
beaten  egg.  Add  flavoring.  Strain  into  buttered  custard 
cups,  place  in  a  pan  of  hot  water  and  bake  until  firm  in  a 
slow  oven. 

BAKED  CUSTARD  WITH  LACTOSE,  360  CALORIES  i 

Calories 

1^  ounces  of  milk  sugar  (about  2%  tablespoons)    160 

6  ounces  of  milk  ( 12  tablespoons)    120 

1  egg     80 

Nutmeg  or  vanila    

Speck  of  salt 

Beat  the  egg  slightly.  Warm  the  sugar  and  milk,  stirring 
constantly,  add  to  the  egg,  strain  into  a  custard  cup,  and 
flavor.  Bake  in  a  pan  of  water  in  a  moderate  oven  until  a 
knife  when  cut  into  it  will  come  out  clean  (30  minutes  to  1 
hour). 

WHIPS  AND  SOUFFLES 

Dainty  and  nutritious  ways  to  serve  the  uncooked  and 
slightly  cooked  white  of  eggs. 

1  Dr.  W.  Coleman,  American  Journal  of  Hedical  Sciences,  January,  1912. 


WHIPS  AND  SOUFFLES  291 

FRUIT    WHIP,    125-150   CALORIES 
(Two  Servings.) 
Any  fruit,  fresh,  canned  or  dried  (properly  prepared),  or 
jellies  may  be  used. 

2  to  4  tablespoons  fruit  pulp.  2    tablespoons     powdered    sugar 

White  1  egg.  (or  to  taste). 

Lemon  juice. 

Prepare  the  fruit  pulp  by  scraping,  grating  or  rubbing 
through  a  strainer.  Beat  the  white  of  egg  on  platter  until 
stiff.  Add  pulp,  sugar  and  lemon  juice  to  taste,  and  beat 
until  very  stiff.  Heap  in  center  of  serving  dish  and  pour 
Soft  Custard  No.  I  around  it. 

Note. —  The  apple  is  a  favorite  fruit  for  these  whips. 
The  juice  of  fresh  fruits  in  season  used  with  the  raw  white 
of  egg  makes  an  appetizing  as  well  as  a  very  nutritious  lunch 
for  the  sick. 

STRAWBERRY  WHIP,  327  CALORIES 

(Four  Servings.) 
1  cup  fresh  strawberries.  y3   cup   powdered  sugar. 

Whites  2  eggs. 

Wash  and  hull  the  strawberries  and  mash  slightly.  Beat 
whites  of  eggs  until  stiff,  add  sugar  and  berries;  beat  until 
rery  stiff,  using  a  broad  bowl  and  a  wire  egg-beater,  beating 
with  a  long,  steady  stroke.  Pile  lightly  in  a  glass  dish  and 
serve  with  white  or  sponge  cake. 

GRAPE  WHIP,  1445  CALORIES 

(Six  Servings.) 
%  cup  grape  juice.  5  tablespoons  sugar. 

White  1  egg.  1  cup  double  cream. 

Beat  the  white  of  egg  until  foamy,  add  the  grape  juice 
mixed  with  the  sugar  and,  lastly,  the  cream,  then  beat  with 
a  whip  churn.  Take  off  the  froth  as  it  rises  and  drain  on 
a  sieve.  Pour  the  unwhipped  mixture  into  small,  high  glasses 
and  pile  the  whip  on  top.     Serve  cold. 


292  NUTRITIOUS  DESSERTS 

OMELET  SOUFFLE,  230  CALORIES  1 
(Individual  Rule.) 
Yolk  1  egg.  Speck  salt. 

3  tablespoons  powdered  sugar.        Whites  2  eggs. 
2  tablespoons  lemon  juice.  Strawberry  or  fruit  jam. 

To  the  well-beaten  yolk  add  the  sugar,  salt,  lemon  juice 
and  rind.  Beat  the  whites  to  the  stiffest  possible  froth,  then 
cut  and  fold  into  the  yolk.  Have  ready  a  small  baking  dish, 
buttered  and  spread  with  a  layer  of  the  fruit ;  pour  the  omelet 
over  it  and  bake  in  a  moderate  oven  fifteen  or  twenty  min- 
utes.    Test  as  for  baked  custard.     Serve  at  once. 

Note. —  Do  not  use  lemon  rind  if  it  will  interfere  me- 
dicinally. 

CUSTARD  SOUFFLE,  297  CALORIES 

(Individual  Rule.) 
%  tablespoon  butter.  Yolk  1  egg. 

1%  tablespoons  flour.  1%  tablespoons  sugar. 

*4   cup  scalded  milk.  White  1  egg. 

Melt  butter,  add  flour  and  gradually  the  scalding  milk. 
Cook  thoroughly,  pour  on  to  the  well-beaten  yolk,  add  sugar 
and  cool.  Fold  into  mixture  the  well-beaten  white.  Turn 
into  buttered  custard  cups  and  bake  about  fifteen  minutes, 
until  firm  —  determined  by  pressing  with  the  finger.  Take 
from  oven  and  serve  at  once,  or  it  will  fall.  Serve  with 
Foamy  Sauce. 

LEMON  SOUFFLE,  275  CALORIES 

(Individual  Rule.) 
Yolk  1  egg.  %  cup  sugar. 

Juice  14  lemon.  White  1  egg. 

Thoroughly  beat  yolk,  add  sugar,  slowly,  beating  con- 
stantly; add  lemon  juice.  Fold  in  the  white  beaten  until 
dry.  Pour  into  buttered  custard  cups,  set  in  pan  of  hot 
water  and  bake  twenty  minutes  or  until  firm,  testing  by  press- 
ing with  finger.     Serve  plain  or  with  Foamy  Sauce. 

1  Without    jam. 


JUNKET  293 

PEACH  MERINGUE,  210  CALORIES  I 

(Individual  Rule.) 
1  cup  yellow  peaches.  Bread  crumbs. 

Sugar  to  taste.  White  1  egg. 

Yolk  1  egg.  1  tablespoon  powdered  sugar. 

Stew  peaches  in  a  very  little  water,  sweeten  to  taste  and 
stir  in  the  well-beaten  yolk.  Butter  a  pudding  dish  and 
cover  bottom  with  fine  bread  crumbs,  put  in  the  peaches  and 
bake  fifteen  minutes.  Cover  with  meringue  made  of  white 
of  egg  and  the  powdered  sugar;  brown  slightly  in  the  oven. 
Serve  cold. 

JUNKET 

Junket  is  a  healthful  and  dainty  dessert  made  simply  of 
pure  milk,  and  containing  enough  of  the  active  principle 
of  rennet  found  in  the  Junket  Tablet  to  coagulate  the  milk. 
It  is  nutritious  and  has  the  added  advantage  of  being  easily 
digested. 

Milk  or  cream  that  has  been  boiled,  sterilized,  condensed 
or  evaporated  cannot  be  used  in  making  junket,  and  care 
must  be  taken  not  to  heat  the  milk  more  than  lukewarm,  as 
hot  milk  spoils  the  action  of  the  tablet. 

For  diabetic  patients  Sweetina  may  be  used  as  a  substitute 
for  sugar  in  these  recipes. 

PLAIN  JUNKET,  296  CALORIES 

(Individual  Rule.) 

1  cup  milk.  %  Hansen's  Junket  Tablet. 

2  tablespoons  sugar.  1  teaspoon  cold  water. 
yt  teaspoon  brandy  or  wine. 

Heat  the  milk  until  lukewarm,  add  sugar  and  flavoring; 
when  sugar  is  dissolved  add  the  tablet  dissolved  in  the  cold 
water.  Pour  mixture  immediately  into  sherbet  cups  or  cham- 
pagne glasses,  partly  fill.  Stand  in  warm  room  undisturbed 
until  firm  like  jelly,  then  put  on  ice  to  cool.  Serve  with 
whipped  cream  heaped  on  top,  with  one-half  teaspoon  bright 
jelly  for  garni.-h. 

1  Without   bread    crumbs    and   sugar. 


294  NUTRITIOUS  DESSERTS 

Note. —  For  variety,  whole  strawberries  or  raspberries  may 
be  served  with  junket,  or  chopped  English  walnuts  with  the 
whipped  cream.     For  garnish,  candied  cherries  may  be  used. 

If  desired,  the  brandy  and  sugar  may  be  omitted  in  making 
junket  and  served  plain,  with  sugar  and  a  grating  of  nutmeg. 

CUSTARD    JUNKET,    512    CALORIES 
(Two  Servings.) 
y2  cup  hot  milk.  2  tablespoons  sugar. 

1  egg.  y±  teaspoon  vanilla. 

2  tablespoons  sugar.  y2  Hansen's  Junket  Tablet. 
%  cup  lukewarm  milk.                      2  teaspoons  cold  water. 

Beat  the  egg,  add  two  tablespoons  sugar;  pour  on  grad- 
ually the  hot  milk.  Cook  in  top  of  double  boiler;  stir  con- 
stantly until  it  thickens;  take  at  once  from  the  fire  and  cool. 
Mix  two  tablespoons  sugar  with  the  lukewarm  milk,  add  to 
the  cooled  custard  and  blend  thoroughly.  When  lukewarm 
add  vanilla  and  the  tablet  dissolved  in  cold  water;  finish  as 
for  Plain  Junket. 

COCOA  JUNKET,  280  CALORIES 

(Individual  Rule.) 

1  tablespoon  cocoa.  %  Hansen's  Junket  Tablet. 

2  teaspoons  sugar.  1  teaspoon  cold  water. 
2  tablespoons  boiling  water.            3  drops  vanilla. 

1  cup  milk. 

Mix  the  cocoa,  sugar,  boiling  water,  and  cook  over  heat 
and  rub  to  a  smooth  paste;  add  gradually  the  fresh  cool 
milk.  Heat  until  lukewarm  (not  more),  add  vanilla  and 
then  tablet  dissolved  in  the  cold  water.  Finish  as  for  Plain 
Junket  and  serve  with  sweetened  cream  or  a  Soft  Custard. 

PLAIN  AND  COCOA  JUNKET  WITH  LACTOSE,  250  CALORIES  i 

Calories 

1  teaspoonful  of  cocoa  50 

25  grams  of  milk  sugar  (scant  2  tablespoons)    100 

5  ounces  of  milk  ( 10  tablespoons)    100 

%  junket  tablet  dissolved  in  1  ounce  of  cold  water 

Mix  the  cocoa  and  sugar,  add  the  milk,  and  heat  lukewarm, 
stirring  constantly:  add  the  dissolved  junket,  stir  thoroughly, 
and  loave  in  a  cool  place  to  set.     For  plain  junket  omit  cocoa. 

l  Dr.  W.  Coleman,  American  Journal  of  Medical  Sciences,  January,  1912. 


CORXSTARCH  PUDDING  OR  BLANC  MANGE     295 


CORNSTARCH  PUDDING  OR  BLANC  MANGE 

Starch  of  various  kinds  is  used  in  milk  puddings.  For 
children,  invalids  and  dyspeptics  such  puddings  are  admirable. 
They  must  be  thoroughly  cooked,  that  the  action  of  the  heat 
may  affect  the  starch.  The  combination  of  starch  and  milk 
gives  a  wholesome  nutritive  food,  and  the  addition  of  eggs 
increases  the  food  value. 

CORNSTARCH  PUDDING,  329  CALORIES 

(Individual   Rule.) 
1  cup  milk.  Speck  salt. 

\y2  tablespoons  cornstarch.  White  1  egg. 

iy2  tablespoons  sugar.  Vanilla. 

Scald  the  milk  in  double  boiler.  Mix  cornstarch,  sugar 
and  salt  thoroughly;  add  slowly  the  scalded  milk,  stirring 
constantly.  Eeturn  to  top  of  boiler  and  cook  twenty  min- 
utes, stirring  constantly  for  the  first  five  or  six  minutes,  then 
occasionally.  Eemove  from  fire  and  while  very  hot  fold  in 
lightly,  but  thoroughly,  the  well-beaten  white  of  egg.  "When 
partially  cooled  add  flavoring  to  taste;  put  into  wet  cups 
or  molds,  cool  and  then  stand  for  several  hours  on  ice.  Re- 
move from  molds.  Serve  with  a  soft  custard,  mashed  fresh 
berries,  or  whipped  cream.  Vary  the  pudding  by  adding  a 
little  Walter  Baker's  chocolate,  melted. 

PINEAPPLE  CREAM,  340  CALORIES 
(Individual  Rule.) 
1  cup  milk.  Speck  salt. 

1 '  .  tablespoons  cornstarch.  White  1  egg. 

\y2  tablespoons  sugar.  2  tablespoons  grated  pineapple. 

Follow  directions  for  Cornstarch  Pudding,  adding  the 
pineapple  instead  of  vanilla.  Pour  into  individual  molds 
and  serve  cold  with  cream. 

CORNSTARCH  FRUIT  JELLY,  166  CALORIES  I 
(Two  Servings.) 
1   cup  raspberry  juice.  1  tablespoons  cornstarch. 

Sugar. 

1  Without   sugar. 


296  NUTRITIOUS  DESSERTS 

Sweeten  the  juice  to  taste  and  heat  to  boiling  point.  Make 
a  smooth  paste  of  the  cornstarch  and  a  little  cold  water,  add 
slowly  to  the  juice  and  cook  thirty  minutes  in  top  of  double 
boiler,  stirring  constantly  at  first.  Pour  into  cold,  wet  molds. 
Serve  cold  with  whipped  cream  and  fresh,  whole  berries. 

MALTED  MILK  BLANC  MANGE,  280  CALORIES 

(Two  Servings.) 
2  tablespoons  Horlick's  Malted       Speck  salt. 

Milk.  1  tablespoon  sugar. 

2  tablespoons  powdered  arrow-        1%  cups  boiling  water, 
root.  14  teaspoon  vanilla. 

Mix  the  arrowroot  and  Malted  Milk  powder  with  a  little 
cold  water  into  a  smooth  paste.  Add  the  boiling  water  slowly, 
cook  in  double  boiler  about  twenty  minutes,  or  until  arrow- 
root is  thoroughly  cooked,  add  vanilla  and  pour  into  cold, 
wet  molds.  Chill  and  serve  with  Soft  Custard  or  whipped 
cream. 

Note. —  One  teaspoon  powdered  coffee  may  be  added  to 
above  before  cooking,  for  Coffee  Blanc  Mange. 

NUTRITIOUS  WHEAT  PUDDING,  252  CALORIES 

(Individual  Rule.) 
1  cup  milk.  White  1  egg. 

2y2  tablespoons  flour.  Y4.  teaspoon  vanilla. 

Speck  salt. 

Blend  flour  with  a  little  of  the  cold  milk.  Scald  remainder 
of  milk  and  add  flour  mixture;  cook  thoroughly;  add  salt 
and  flavoring  and  fold  in  the  white  of  egg  beaten  slightly. 
Put  into  cold,  wet  mold,  cool  and  set  in  ice  box  to  harden. 
Serve  with  Soft  Custard  or  whipped  cream,  or  sprinkle  with 
powdered  sugar  and  pour  over  it  one-fourth  cup  of  fresh 
fruit  juice  or  crushed  fruit. 

GLUTEN  PUDDING   (FOR  THE  DIABETIC),  861  CALORIES 

(Six  Servings.) 

3  tablespoons  Gum  Gluten  Flour.    1  teaspoon  butter. 
1  pint  hot  milk.  1  saltspoon  salt. 

1  pint  cold  milk.  Cinnamon. 

1  egg.  Sweetina. 


BICE  PUDDINGS  29? 

Blend  Gum  Gluten  Flour  with  a  little  of  the  cold  milk, 
add  gradually  to  one  pint  hot  milk.  Cook  thoroughly.  Beat 
egg,  add  cold  milk,  the  cooked  mixture  and  salt,  cinnamon 
and  Sweetina  to  taste.  Bake  thirty  minutes.  A  little  fruit 
improves  the  flavor.     Serve  with  whipped  cream. 

IRISH  MOSS  JELLY,  677  CALORIES 
(Three  Servings.) 
ys  cup  Irish  moss.  Juice   1   lemon  or  orange. 

2  cups  boiling  water.  yz  cup  sugar. 

4  figs. 

Soak,  pick  over  and  wash  the  moss.  Put  it  into  the  boil- 
ing water,  add  the  figs  cut  into  strips  and  simmer  about 
twenty  minutes,  or  until  it  is  very  thick  when  dropped  on 
a  cold  plate.  Add  lemon  juice  and  sugar.  Strain  into  a 
cold,  wet  mold. 

IRISH  MOSS  BLANC  MANGE,  296  CALORIES 
(Four  Servings.) 
^4   cup  Irish  moss.  %  saltspoon  salt. 

ly2  cups  cold  water.  y3  teaspoon  vanilla. 

1%  cups  milk. 

Soak  the  moss  in  cold  water  about  fifteen  minutes.  Re- 
move from  water,  pick  over  and  put  into  double  boiler  with 
the  milk.  Cook  about  twenty  minutes,  or  until  it  thickens 
when  dropped  on  a  cold  plate.  Add  salt,  strain  and  flavor. 
Strain  again  and  turn  into  small  cold,  wet  molds.  Chill  and 
serve  with  cream  and  sugar  or  sliced  fruit. 

RICE  PUDDINGS 

BOILED    RICE,    100    CALORIES 

(Individual  Rule.) 
2  tablespoons   rice.  yz  teaspoon  salt. 

2  cups  boiling  water. 

Wash  rice  thoroughly  and  add  gradually  to  the  boiling 
salted  water,  care  being  taken  that  the  water  does  not  stop 
boiling.     Boil   uncovered   twenty   minutes,    or    until    grains 


298  NUTRITIOUS  DESSERTS 

are  soft.  Turn  into  a  strainer  and  pour  over  it  one  cup  of 
hot  water  and  drain,  put  in  oven  a  few  moments  to  dry,  with 
oven  door  open.  Serve  as  a  cereal  with  sugar  or  cream  or 
as  a  pudding  with  cooked  dates  and  whipped  cream,  or  plain 
with  Soft  Custard. 

Note. —  Keep  rice  well  covered  with  water  while  cooking. 

Dates. —  Cut  in  small  pieces,  add  a  little  water  to  partly 
cover  and  cook  until  soft.     Simmer  and  do  not  stir. 

STEAMED  RICE,  265  CALORIES 

(Individual  Rule.) 
y3  cup  rice.  %  teaspoon  salt. 

1  cup  boiling  water. 

Pick  over  the  rice,  wash  in  three  or  four  waters;  put  it 
with  the  boiling  water  and  salt  in  upper  part  of  double 
boiler.  Do  not  stir  while  cooking.  Steam  one  hour,  or  until 
the  grains  are  tender.  Serve  as  a  cereal  with  sugar  or  cream 
or  as  a  pudding  with  Soft  Custard,  or  with  sugar  and  cream. 

Note. —  A  few  dates  cut  in  narrow  strips  may  be  added 
just  before  serving  if  desired.  Part  milk  may  be  used  in 
the  cooking. 

PEACHES    AND    RICE 

Serve  boiled  or  steamed  rice  with  sections  of  fresh,  juicy 
peaches,  or  with  fresh  berries.     Serve  with  sugar  and  cream. 
DATES  AND  RICE,   1035  CALORIES 

1  tablespoon  sugar.  *4  cup  boiling  water. 

1  cup  Dromedary  Date3.  1  cup  boiled  or  steamed  rice. 

Put  dates,  sugar  and  boiling  water  in  sauce  pan  and  sim- 
mer three  minutes.  Make  border  around  serving  dish  with 
the  boiled  or  steamed  rice  and  fill  center  with  the  date  mix- 
ture.    Serve  with  cream. 

SOUTHERN  SNOWBALLS,  367  CALORIES 
(Individual  Rule.) 
14  cup  rice.  %  teaspoon  salt. 

1  cup  milk. 

Pick  over  rice,  wash  in  several  waters  and  put  with  milk 
and  salt  in  top  of  double  boiler.  Cook  until  the  milk  is  ab- 
sorbed and  rice  is  tender.     Do  not  stir  while  cooking.     Dip 


RICE  PUDDINGS  299 

egg  cup?  in  cold  water  and  pack  with  rice  carefully  but 
tightly,  turn  out  on  serving  dish,  sprinkle  with  powdered 
sugar,  put  a  candied  cherry  or  a  strawberry  on  top,  and  serve 
with  whipped  cream. 

PLAIN  RICE   PUDDING,   746   CALORIES 

(Individual  Rule.) 
1  cup  steamed  rice.  2  tablespoons  sugar. 

1   cup   scalded   milk.  %  saltspoon  salt. 

%  tablespoon  butter.  14  cup  stoned  raisins. 

1  eg 

Scald  milk  and  add  butter.  Beat  egg,  add  sugar  and  salt 
and  pour  on  slowly  the  scalding  milk.  Put  in  pudding  dish 
with  rice  and  raisins.  Bake  in  a  moderate  oven  until  custard 
is  set.     Serve  with  Hard  Sauce. 

Xote. —  Do  not  use  raisins  in  case  of  bowel  trouble. 

RICE   MERINGUE,    526    CALORIES 

(Two  Servings.) 
%  CUP  c°ld  cooked  rice.  Egg  yolk. 

1  cup  scalded  milk.  Vanilla. 

2y2  tablespoons  sugar.  1  egg  white. 

y2  saltspoon  salt.  2  tablespoons  powdered  sugar. 

Blend  rice  and  milk  and  soak  until  soft.  Beat  the  yolk, 
add  sugar  and  salt  and  gradually  the  hot  milk  and  rice. 
Cook  until  it  thickens  like  soft  custard.  Add  flavoring  to 
taste  and  pour  into  pudding  dish  or  custard  cups.  Make  a 
meringue  of  the  white  of  egg  and  powdered  sugar,  cover  the 
pudding  and  brown  slightly  in  the  oven. 

CREAM  OF  RICE  PUDDING,  657  CALORIES 

(Three  Servings.) 
y4  cup  rice   (well  washed).  1  saltspoon  salt. 

2  tablespoons    sugar.  1   pint  milk. 
Grated  rind  of  %  lemon. 

Mix  all  ingredients  in  a  small  baking  dish.  Bake  two 
hours,  slowly  at  first  until  rice  is  softened  and  thickened  in 
the  milk.  Cut  the  crust  several  times,  stirring  to  the  bottom 
gently.  The  crust  will  then  dissolve  in  the  pudding,  giving 
it  a  creamy  color.     Then  let  it  brown  slightly. 


300  NUTRITIOUS  DESSERTS 

TAPIOCA  PUDDINGS 

TAPIOCA   CREAM,   483   CALORIES 

(Two  Servings.) 

iy2  tablespoons  Minute  tapioca.      1  cup  scalded  milk. 
1%  tablespoons  sugar.  1  egg. 

y2  saltspoon  salt.  Flavoring. 

Scald  milk  in  double  boiler.  Mix  tapioca,  sugar  and  salt; 
add  slowly  to  the  scalding  milk,  return  to  double  boiler  and 
cook  fifteen  minutes.  Add  the  yolk  and  white  of  the  egg, 
beaten  separately.  Eemove  from  fire  and  add  flavoring  de- 
sired.    Serve  plain  or  with  any  fresh  fruit  in  season. 

PLAIN    TAPIOCA,    451    CALORIES 

(Three  Servings.) 
ly2  tablespoons  Minute  tapioca.     1  cup  scalded  milk. 
1  tablespoon  sugar.  %  cup  raisins. 

Salt.  Nutmeg. 

Scald  milk  in  double  boiler  and  gradually  add  the  tapioca 
and  sugar.  Cook  fifteen  minutes.  Add  salt,  nutmeg  to  taste 
and  seeded  raisins.     Serve  with  cream  and  sugar. 

Note. —  Raisins  should  never  be  used  in  bowel  trouble. 

PINEAPPLE  TAPIOCA,  718  CALORIES 

(Three  Servings.) 
14  cup  Minute  tapioca.  1%  cups  boiling  water. 

14  cup  sugar.  1  cup  canned  grated  pineapple. 

Speck  salt. 

Mix  tapioca,  sugar  and  salt,  pour  on  slowly  the  boiling 
water  and  cook  in  double  boiler  until  clear,  about  fifteen  min- 
utes. Pour  over  the  grated  pineapple  and  decorate  the  top 
of  the  pudding  with  currant  jelly. 

APPLE  TAPIOCA,  345  CALORIES  1 

(Three  Servings.) 
%  cup  Minute  tapioca.  1  pint  boiling  water. 

1  tablespoon  sugar.  3  tart  apples. 

Speck  salt.  Sugar,  nutmeg. 

1  Without  extra  sugar. 


TAPIOCA  PUDDINGS  301 

Mix  tapioca,  sugar  and  salt,  pour  on  slowly  the  boiling 
water,  and  cook  in  double  boiler  fifteen  minutes.  Pour  this 
onto  the  apples,  which  have  been  pared  and  cored  and  the 
holes  filled  with  sugar  and  a  little  nutmeg.  Cover  the  dish 
and  bake  one-half  hour.     Serve  with  cream  and  sugar. 

RASPBERRY   TAPIOCA,   218   CALORIES 

(Three  Servings.) 
ly2  tablespoons  Minute  tapioca.     y2  cup  raspberry  juice. 
ly2  tablespoons  sugar.  Juice  y2  lemon. 

1  cup  boiling  water.  Speck  salt. 

Mix  tapioca,  sugar  and  salt,  pour  on  slowly  the  boiling 
water  and  cook  in  double  boiler  fifteen  minutes.  Add  rasp- 
berry and  lemon  juice.  When  it  begins  to  jelly,  beat  smooth 
with  a  spoon.     Serve  plain  or  with  whipped  cream. 

DATE  TAPIOCA,  660  CALORIES 

(Three  Servings.) 
V/2  tablespoons  Minute  tapioca.    1  cup  scalded  milk. 
1  tablespoon  sugar.  1  egg. 

y2  saltspoon  salt.  y±  cup  chopped  dates. 

Mix  tapioca,  sugar  and  salt;  add  gradually  the  hot  milk 
and  cook  in  double  boiler  fifteen  minutes.  Add  the  beaten 
egg  yolk  and  cook  three  minutes  longer.  Stir  in  the  dates. 
Make  a  meringue  of  the  white  of  egg,  heap  it  on  top  and 
brown  delicately  in  the  oven. 

CHOCOLATE  OR  COCOA  BLANC  MANGE,  827  CALORIES  i 

(Three  Servings.) 
*4  cup  Minute  tapioca.  \y2  cups  hot  chocolate  or  cocoa. 

y4  cup   sugar.  Vi  teaspoon  vanilla. 

%  teaspoon  salt. 

Mil  tapioca,  sugar  and  salt;  pour  on  gradually  the  hot 
cocoa  and  cook  in  double  boiler  about  twenty  minutes.  Re- 
move from  heat,  add  vanilla  and  pour  into  cold,  wet  molds. 
Serve  cold,  plain  or  with  whipped  cream  or  Soft  Custard. 

1  Calculated  with  chocolate,  recipe  page  135. 


302  NUTRITIOUS  DESSERTS 


BREAD  PUDDINGS 

The  principle  of  employing  farinaceous  matter  which  has 
already  been  subjected  to  heat  (so  that  a  considerable  con- 
version of  starch  has  gone  on  before  the  human  salivary 
diastase  comes  into  play)  is  carried  out  in  practice  in  the 
form  of  bread  puddings. 

PLAIN  BREAD  PUDDING,  900  CALORIES 

(Two  Servings.) 
1  cup  stale  bread.  2  tablespoons  sugar    (to  taste). 

1  cup  milk.  y2  saltspoon  salt. 

1  tablespoon  butter.  %  cup  seeded  raisins. 

1  egg. 

Scald  milk  and  add  butter.  Beat  the  egg  and  add  sugar 
and  salt;  pour  on  gradually  the  scalding  milk.  Cut  the 
bread  into  one-half  inch  cubes  and  add  with  the  raisins. 
Pour  into  well-buttered  pudding  dish,  put  bits  of  butter  on 
top  and  bake  in  a  moderate  oven  until  the  custard  is  set. 
Serve  with  Hard  Sauce  or  cream  and  sugar. 

Note. —  Do  not  serve  raisins  in  bowel  trouble. 

ORANGE  BREAD  PUDDING,  919  CALORIES 

(Two   Servings.) 
%  cup  stale  bread.  2  oranges. 

y2  cup  milk.  6  tablespoons  sugar. 

2  eggs. 

Soak  bread  in  the  milk  until  soft  and  beat  lightly  with 
fork;  add  the  grated  rind  of  one  orange  and  the  juice  of 
both;  sweeten.  Beat  the  whites  very  light  and  add  to  above 
mixture.  Pour  into  custard  cups  and  cook  as  for  baked  cus- 
tard —  about  fifteen  or  twenty  minutes.  Serve  plain  or  with 
Hard  Sauce. 

Note. —  Omit  orange  rind  if  it  will  interfere  medicinally. 


BREAD  PUDDINGS  303 

LEMON  BREAD  PUDDING,  543  CALORIES 

(Two  Servings.) 

up  milk.  3  tablespoons  sugar. 

y2  tup  Boft  bread  crumbs.  y2   tablespoon  butter. 

Yolk  1  i  £  Grated  rind   *4  lemon. 
Speck  salt. 

Scald  milk  and  add  butter.  Beat  the  egg  yolk,  add  sugar 
and  salt  and  pour  on  gradually  the  scalded  milk.  Add  the 
bread  crumbs  and  grated  lemon  rind;  pour  into  a  buttered 
pudding  dish  and  bake  in  a  moderate  oven  about  fifteen  min- 
utes, or  until  set  like  baked  custard. 

Make  a  meringue  by  beating  the  white  of  egg  very  stiff, 
adding  two  tablespoons  powdered  sugar  and  juice  of  one- 
fourth  lemon.  Cover  the  pudding  with  it  and  set  in  the 
oven  till  a  dainty  brown. 

Xote. —  Do  not  use  lemon  rind  if  it  will  interfere  medici- 
nally. For  the  crumbs,  rub  soft  bread  through  a  coarse 
strainer. 

JELLY  BREAD  PUDDING 

Prepare  the  same  as  for  Lemon  Bread  Pudding,  omitting 
the  lemon  rind  and  juice.  Spread  any  tart  jelly  over  pudding 
when  baked  and  add  meringue. 

CHOCOLATE  BREAD  PUDDING,  904  CALORIES 

(Two  Servings. ) 

¥2  cup  stale  bread  crumbs.  2y2  tablespoons  sugar. 

1  cup   milk.  1  egg. 

1/2    ounce      (or     square)      Walter  Speck  salt. 

Baker's  unsweetened  chocolate.  Vi  teaspoon  vanilla. 

Soak  bread  crumbs  in  milk.  Melt  chocolate  over  hoi  water 
and  add  to  it  the  sugar  and  salt.  To  the  chocolate  mixture, 
add  the  Boaked  crumbs,  the  beaten  egg  and  vanilla.  Put  into 
buttered  custard  cups  and  bake  in  a  moderate  oven  about 
twenty  minutes,  or  until  custard  is  set.  Serve  hot,  plain  or 
with  Hard  Sauce. 


304  NUTRITIOUS  DESSERTS 

LACTOSE  BREAD  PUDDING,  560  CALORIES  i 

Calorie! 

iy2  ounces  of  milk  sugar  (about  3  tablespoons)    180 

6  ounces  of  milk   ( 12  tablespoons)    120 

1  egg     80 

1  slice  of  bread  ( %  inch  thick )    60 

y2  ounce  of  butter  ( 1  level  tablespoon)   120 

560 

Spread  the  bread  with  butter  and  cut  into  squares.  Beat 
the  egg  slightly;  heat  the  milk  and  sugar,  stirring  constantly; 
mix  with  the  egg  and  pour  over  the  bread.  Grate  nutmeg 
over  the  top  and  bake  the  same  as  the  custard. 

GLUTEN  BROWN  BETTY  (FOR  THE  DIABETIC),  222  CALORIES  2 

3  Gum  Gluten  Biscuit  Crisps.        Sugar. 

1  large  sour  apple.  Cinnamon. 

2  teaspoons  butter. 

Into  a  well-buttered  individual  baking  dish  place  one 
crushed  Biscuit  Crisp;  onto  this  put  one-half  apple  cooked 
as  for  apple  sauce  or  raw  cut  in  thin  slices  or  chopped; 
season  with  sugar,  speck  of  cinnamon  and  bits  of  butter. 
Add  another  layer  of  crumbs  (one  Biscuit  Crisp),  then  the 
remaining  half  of  apple  and  seasoning,  lastly  crumbs.  Place 
bits  of  butter  on  top,  put  in  slow  oven,  and  bake. 

CRACKER  PUDDINGS 

CRACKER  PUDDING,  397  CALORIES 

(Two  Servings.) 
iy2  soda  crackers.  Yolk  1  egg. 

1  cup  milk.  2  tablespoons  sugar. 

%  teaspoon  salt. 

Eoll  the  crackers  and  soak  in  the  milk.  Beat  yolks  and 
sugar  well  together  and  add  to  pudding  with  salt.  Bake 
one-half  hour.  Make  a  meringue  with  the  whites  of  the 
eggs,  pile  lightly  on  top  and  put  in  oven  till  golden  brown. 
Serve  hot. 

1  Dr.  W.  Coleman,  American  Journal  of  Medical  Sciences,  January,  1912. 

2  Without  sugar. 


PUDDIXG  ^SAUCES  305 

ENGLISH    WALNUTS    AND    BISCUIT    CRISPS     (FOR    THE    DIA- 
BETIC),  154   CALORIES 

(Individual  Rule.) 
2  Gum  Gluten  Biscuit  Crisps.        4  walnut  halves. 

2  hot  tablespoons  thin  cream.        Parsley. 
y2  teaspoon  butter. 

Butter  Biscuit  Crisps  and  place  in  oven  until  well  heated 
tli rough.  Dip  the  nuts  in  melted  butter  and  cook,  turning 
often  until  heated.  Cover  each  Crisp  with  one  tablespoon  of 
hot  cream  and  serve  two  nuts  on  each  Crisp;  garnish  with 
sprig  of  parsley. 

Note. —  Buttered  Biscuit  Crisps  may  be  served  heated  and 
served  with  ground  nut  meats  over  top. 

PUDDING  SAUCES 

HARD    SAUCE,   650   CALORIES 

(Four  Servings.) 

3  tablespoons  butter. 
6  tablespoons  powdered  sugar. 
Nutmeg. 

Cream  butter;  add  sugar  gradually.  When  light  and 
creamy  add  the  unbeaten  white  of  egg  and  the  cream,  a  drop 
or  two  at  a  time.  Season  highly.  Heap  on  serving  dish  and 
cool. 

FOAMY    SAUCE,   863   CALORIES 

(Three  Servings.) 

%  egg- 

1  tablespoon  wine. 

Cream  butter;  add  sugar  gradually,  the  well-beaten  egg 
and  the  wine.  Heat  over  hot  water,  beating  constantly. 
Serve  immediately. 

TO  WHIP  CREAM 

y2   cup  thick  cream    (40%)  =432   Calories. 

Do  not  have  cream  too  thick;  season  with  sugar  and  any 

flavoring  desired ;  put  in  bowl  and  set  bowl  in  another  utensil 

containing  a  little  cold  water  and  ice.     Beat  cream  with  Dover 


306  NUTRITIOUS  DESSERTS 

egg-beater  until  stiff  enough  to  keep  its  form.     Set  on  ice  to 
keep  cold. 

Xote. —  Do  not  beat  too  long  or  it  may  turn  to  butter.  To 
one-half  cup  thick  cream  add  three  tablespoons  milk. 

WHIPPED   CREAM   NO.   II. 
1  egg  white  =  10  to  15  Calories. 
Follow  the  above  recipe,  and  add  the  white  of  one  egg 
beaten  stiff,  folding  it  into  the  stiffly-beaten  cream. 

FRUIT    SAUCE,    75    CALORIES 
(Two  Servings.) 
6  tablespoons  fruit  juice.  y2   teaspoon   arrowroot   or    corn- 

starch. 

Blend  starch  with  a  little  cold  water  and  pour  into  the 
hot  fruit  juice.  Boil  two  or  three  minutes.  Sweeten  if  de- 
sired. 

ORANGE   SAUCE 

See  chapter  "  Gelatin  "  for  recipe.     Page  210. 
FROZEN  DESSERT 

ICE   CREAM  —  SHERBET  —  ICES 

Frozen  dishes  not  only  constitute  an  acceptable  form  of 
serving  nutriment,  but  often  are  a  means  of  furnishing  addi- 
tional liquid  and  relieving  thirst.  Ices  and  sherbets  made 
with  fruits  and  water,  have  a  dietetic  value  similar  to  acid 
beverages.  Frozen  cream,  milk,  junkets,  custards,  etc.,  have 
the  same  nutritive  value  as  the  same  foods  served  without 
freezing. 

In  giving  all  very  cold  dishes,  care  must  be  taken  not  to 
interfere  with  the  digestion  of  other  foods.  Chilling  the 
mouth  hinders  the  formation  and  activity  of  saliva;  chilling 
the  stomach  retards  gastric  digestion.  The  latter  effect  can 
be  avoided  by  eating  ice-cold  food  very  slowly,  so  that  it  is 
partially  warmed  before  reaching  the  stomach.  Frozen  foods 
should  not  be  given  when  ptyalin  digestion  is  especially  im- 
portant. 


ICE  CREAM  307 

General  Bides  for  Freezing,  Ice  (or  snow)  and  salt  are 
required  for  the  process  of  freezing.  The  salt  melts  the  ice, 
and  in  melting  absorbs  heat  from  the  mixture,  thus  causing  it 
to  freeze.  The  finer  the  ice,  the  more  quickly  the  freezing 
will  be  accomplished.  In  packing  a  freezer  allow  three  level 
measures  of  ice  to  one  of  salt.  This  proportion  is  found  best 
for  fine-grained  mixture.  The  can  should  not  be  filled  more 
than  three-fourths  full,  as  the  liquid  expands  in  freezing,  and 
if  over-crowded,  the  cream  will  become  coarse-grained  and  the 
cover  may  be  pushed  up  allowing  the  salt  water  to  get  in. 

Freezing  in  Small  Amounts.  Put  mixture  to  be  frozen 
into  a  water-tight  baking  powder  can,  or  a  small  tin  pail  with 
cover,  and  stand  in  large  pail  or  bowl.  Pack  the  ice  and  salt 
alternately  under  and  around  it  (ice  pounded  fine),  using 
one  part  salt  to  three  parts  ice.  Remove  cover,  and  beat 
mixture  with  Dover  egg-beater  until  foamy,  replace  cover  and 
turn  can,  or  pail,  back  and  forth;  remove  cover  occasionally 
and  scrape  the  frozen  mixture  from  side  of  can,  and  beat 
thoroughly  with  fork.  The  mixture  will  freeze  in  twenty 
minutes.  When  frozen,  place  a  narrow  strip  of  cloth,  dipped 
in  melted  beef  fat  or  lard,  around  the  outside  of  cover  to  keep 
out  the  salt  water.  Repack  in  ice,  or  ice  and  salt,  and  cover 
well  until  wanted. 

Serve  frozen  dishes  in  sherbet,  champagne,  or  high  glasses; 
pass  on  small  plate  covered  with  doily,  and  at  the  side  of  the 
plate  a  small  cake,  wafer  or  a  few  orange  straws  may  be 
added ;  a  rose  will  add  to  the  attractiveness. 

ICE  CREAM 

VANILLA   ICE    CREAM,   310   CALORIES  « 
(Individual  Rule.) 
%    cup    thin    cream    or    %    cup         %  teaspoon  vanilla. 

heavy  cream  and  %  cup  milk.         Speck  salt. 
iy2  tablespoons  .-ugar. 

Blend  all  the  ingredients;  when  sugar  is  dissolved,  freeze 
in  a  small  pail  according  to  general  directions. 

1  Calculated   with   thin   cream. 


308  NUTRITIOUS  DESSERTS 

VANILLA  ICE  CREAM  WITH  LACTOSE,  520  CALORIES  1 

Calories 

4  ounces  of  cream   ( %  pint  or  %  cup)    240 

2  ounces  of  milk  (4  tablespoons)    40 

2  ounces  of  milk  sugar  (about  4  level  tablespoons)   240 

Speck  of  salt 

Few  drops  of  vanilla 

520 

Mix  cream,  milk,  and  sugar,  and  heat,  stirring  constantly, 
until  the  sugar  is  dissolved.     Then  flavor,  cool,  and  freeze. 

CHOCOLATE  ICE  CREAM,  353  CALORIES  2 

(Individual  Rule.) 

%  cup    thin    cream    or    %    cup  1%  tablespoons   sugar. 

heavy  cream  and  %  cup  milk.    1  tablespoon  boiling  water. 
*4  square  Walter  Baker's  choco-  %  teaspoon  vanilla. 

late.  Speck  salt. 

Melt  the  chocolate  over  hot  water,  add  the  boiling  water, 
sugar  and  hot  cream.  Cool,  add  vanilla  and  salt  and  freeze 
in  small  pail  according  to  general  directions. 

Note. —  To  make  a  large  quantity,  double  recipe  as  many  times  as 
desired. 

COFFEE  ICE  CREAM,  352  CALORIES  1 

(Individual  Rule.) 

y2  cup    thin    cream    or    */£    cup  1%  tablespoons   sugar. 

heavy  cream  and  ^4  cup  milk.  Speck  salt. 
1  tablespoon  ground  coffee.  %  cup  milk. 

Mix  coffee  and  milk,  put  into  double  boiler  and  cook  five 
minutes.  Strain  through  cheese-cloth  and  strainer;  add 
sugar,  salt  and  cream.  Cool  and  freeze  in  small  pail,  accord- 
ing to  general  directions. 

1  Dr.  W.  Coleman,  American  Journal  of  Medical  Sciences,  January,  1916 

2  Calculated  with  thin  cream. 


ICE  CREAM  309 

GRAPE   JUICE  ICE   CREAM,   490   CALORIES 

(Individual  Rule.) 
i:.  cup  thin  cream.  *4  cup  sugar. 

1 1   cup  grape  juice. 

Scald  one-half  cup  of  the  cream  and  add  the  sugar.  Cool, 
add  remainder  of  cream  and  the  grape  juice  and  freeze  accord- 
ing to  general  directions. 

STRAWBERRY  ICE  CREAM,  356  CALORIES 

(Individual  Rule.) 
y2    cup    thin    cream    or    y4    cup        2  tablespoons  sugar. 

heavy  cream  and  %  cup  milk.         Speck  salt. 
14   cup  strawberries. 

Mash  the  strawberries  with  the  sugar  and  allow  them  to 
stand  live  minutes.  Add  the  cream  and  milk  and  freeze  in 
small  pail  according  to  general  directions. 

Xote. —  The  berries  may  be  mashed  and  strained  through 
cheese-cloth. 

RASPBERRY  ICE  CREAM,  363  CALORIES 

(Individual  Rule.) 
14    cup    thin    cream    or    y±    cup        2  tablespoons  sugar. 

heavy  cream  and  14  cup  milk.         Speck  salt. 
y4  cup  raspberries. 

Mash  the  raspberries  and  strain  through  cheese-cloth.  Add 
cream,  milk  and  sugar.  Freeze  in  small  pail  according  to 
general  directions. 

PEACH  ICE  CREAM,  390  CALORIES 

(Individual  Rule.) 
y2    cup    thin    cream    or    y±    cup        %  cup  peaches, 
heavy  cream  and  14  cup  milk.        2  tablespoons  sugar. 

Mix  peaches  and  sugar  and  press  through  a  potato-ricer 
or  sieve.  Scald  cream  and  milk.  Cool  and  add  peaches  and 
sugar.     Freeze  in  small  pail  according  to  general  directions. 


310  NUTRITIOUS  DESSERTS 

CARAMEL  ICE   CREAM,   340  CALORIES 

(Individual  Rule.) 
y2    cup    thin    cream    or    14    cup    1%  tablespoons  boiling  water. 

thick  cream  and  y4  cup  milk.      y3  teaspoon  vanilla. 
2  tablespoons  sugar.  Speck  salt. 

Into  saucepan  place  the  sugar  and  stir  constantly  until 
melted.  Add  water  and  boil  until  reduced  to  one  and  one- 
half  tablespoon.  Add  cream  very  slowly,  vanilla,  salt,  and 
freeze. 

CARAMEL  ICE  CREAM  NO.  II,  5942  CALORIES 

(Ten  Servings.) 
1  pint  milk.  2  eggs. 

1  cup  sugar.  Speck  salt. 

2  tablespoons  flour.  1  quart  cream. 
1  scant  cup  sugar  for  caramel. 

Scald  the  milk;  mix  one  cup  sugar,  flour  and  salt,  add  the 
eggs  and  beat  all  together  until  perfectly  smooth  and  light. 
Add  the  scalding  milk  gradually,  beating  until  very  smooth. 
Cook  in  double  boiler  twenty  minutes. 

While  cooking,  prepare  caramel.  Put  the  second  cup  of 
sugar  in  saute  pan,  and  cook  until  melted  and  a  delicate 
brown;  add  gradually  the  custard,  stirring  constantly;  strain 
and  cool.  Add  the  cream  (which  has  been  scalded  and 
cooled)  and  freeze  in  large  freezer. 

Note. —  This  may  be  used  for  vanilla  ice-cream  by  omit- 
ting the  caramel  and  using  one  tablespoon  vanilla  and  enough 
of  the  second  cup  of  sugar  to  sweeten. 

MALTED   MILK  ICE   CREAM,  3900   CALORIES  1 

(Ten  Servings.) 

y2  pound  Horlick's  Malted  Milk.    1  pint  cream. 
1  cup   granulated   sugar.  2  ounces  chocolate. 

1  quart  water.  1  tablespoon  vanilla. 

White  1  egg. 

Mix  the  malted  milk  powder,  sugar  and  boiling  water,  stir- 
ring until  smooth.  Add  cream  and  scraped  chocolate  and 
cook  until  chocolate  is  melted.     Add  vanilla,  cool  and  freeze. 

1  Thick  cream. 


ICE  CREAM  311 

When  partly  frozen,  add  the  well-beaten  white  of  egg,  and 
finish  freezing. 

Note. —  If  strawberry  or  other  flavor  is  desired,  it  may  be 
used  in  place  of  vanilla, 

PEPTONOIDS   ICE   CREAM,    1274   CALORIES 

4     tablespoons     Dry     Peptonoids    y2  pint  thin  cream. 

Soluble.  1   oz.   chocolate, 

j  't  cup  sugar.  y2  tablespoon  of  vanilla. 

1  pint  of  water.  White  of  1  egg. 

Mix  Dry  Peptonoids  Soluble,  sugar  and  boiling  water. 
Stir  until  smooth.  Add  cream  and  scraped  chocolate.  Cook 
until  chocolate  is  melted.  Add  vanilla;  cool  and  freeze. 
When  partially  frozen,  add  well-beaten  white  of  egg. 

FROZEN   CUSTARD,   349   CALORIES 

(Two  Servings.) 
1   cup  hot  milk.  2  tablespoons  sugar. 

1  egg.  y±  teaspoon  vanilla. 

Speck  salt. 

Beat  the  egg,  add  the  sugar  and  salt  and  gradually  the 
scalded  milk.     Cool,  add  flavoring  and  freeze. 

HOT   COCOA  SAUCE  FOR  ICE  CREAM,   1035   CALORIES 

(Six  Servings.) 
\y2   cups  water.  2  tablespoons  Walter  Baker's  co- 

1  cup  sugar.  coa. 

1  tablespoon  arrowroot.  1  teaspoon  vanilla. 

Speck  salt. 

Boil  together  the  water  and  sugar  for  two  minutes;  add 
the  arrowroot  mixed  with  a  little  cold  water,  stir  for  a  mo- 
ment,  then  boil  until  clear.  Add  the  cocoa,  which  has  been 
mixed  with  a  little  hot  water,  and  the  salt,  and  boil  three 
minutes  longer.     Remove  from  the  fire  and  add  the  vanilla. 


312  NUTRITIOUS  DESSERTS 

SHERBET 

LEMON  MILK  SHERBET,   299   CALORIES 

(Individual  Rule.) 
y2  cup  milk.  Juice  of  14  lemon. 

14  cup  sugar.  1  drop  lemon  extract. 

Blend  all  the  ingredients  and  freeze  in  small  pail  accord- 
ing to  general  directions. 

LEMON  MILK  SHERBET,  NO.  II,  2390  CALORIES 

(Six  Servings.) 
1  quart  milk.  Juice  2  lemons. 

1  pint  sugar.  %  teaspoon  lemon  extract. 

To  the  lemon  juice  add  the  sugar,  milk  and  extract. 
Freeze  immediately  in  large  freezer. 

STRAWBERRY   SHERBET,  357   CALORIES 

(Individual  Rule.) 

y2  cup  milk.  14  CUP  sugar. 

1  cup  strawberries. 

Mash  the  berries  and  strain.  To  the  juice  add  sugar  and 
milk.     Freeze  in  small  pail  according  to  general  directions. 

STRAWBERRY  SHERBET  NO.  II,  2940  CALORIES 

(Six  Servings.) 

1  quart  milk.  2  cups  sugar. 

2  quarts  strawberries. 

Mash  the  berries  and  strain.  Add  sugar  and  milk.  Freeze 
in  large  freezer. 

CLAM   SHERBET,   128   CALORIES 

(Individual  Rule.) 
%  cup  milk.  Speck  paprika. 

%  cup  clam  broth. 

Blend  and  freeze  according  to  General  Eule.  Serve  in 
small  dainty  glasses  with  a  teaspoon  of  unsweetened  whipped 
cream  on  top.  The  milk  and  clam  taken  in  this  way  are 
often  more  acceptable  to  the  patient  than  when  served  in 
liquid  form. 


SHERBET  313 

Xote. —  The  paprika  may  be  omitted  if  condiments  are  not 
desirable. 

MALTED   MILK   SHERBET,   2148   CALORIES 

(Six  Servings.) 
y2  pound  Horlick's  Malted  Milk.    1  tablespoon  vanilla. 
1  cup  granulated  sugar.  2  ounces  chocolate. 

3  pints  water.  White  1  egg. 

Make  a  smooth  paste  of  the  malted  milk  powder  and  a 
little  of  the  water,  then  add  the  rest  of  the  water  gradually, 
the  sugar,  vanilla  and  the  chocolate  grated.  Freeze.  Wheat 
partly  frozen,  add  the  well-beaten  white  of  egg  and  finish 
freezing. 

GRAPE   SHERBET,  3265   CALORIES 

(Ten  Servings.) 
3  cups  grape  juice.  3  cups  sugar. 

1  quart  water.  White  2  eggs. 

Blend  the  grape  juice,  water  and  sugar.  Partly  freeae. 
Beat  the  whites  of  eggs  lightly,  add  two  tablespoons  pow- 
dered sugar ;  add  to  sherbet  and  continue  freezing  until  hard. 
Eemove  dasher  and  allow  it  to  stand  for  one  hour  to  ripen. 
Pack  carefully. 

GRAPE  AMBROSIA,  5243  CALORIES 

(Twelve  Servings.) 

1  quart  milk.  1  pint  grape  juice. 

2  quarts  water.  1  can  grated  pineapple. 
3%  cups  sugar.                                     Juice   3   lemons. 
Whites  4  eggs. 

Mix  together  milk,  water,  sugar  and  fruit  and  partially 
freeze.  Add  the  well-beaten  whites  of  eggs  and  continue 
freezing  until  hard. 

ICES 

ORANGE    ICE,    252    CALORIES 
(Individual  Rule.) 
y2  cup  water.  1  tablespoon  lemon  juice. 

Juice  iy2  oranges.  y4  cup  sugar. 


314  NUTRITIOUS  DESSERTS 

Mix  together  all  the  ingredients  and  freeze  in  small  pail 
according  to  general  directions. 

ORANGE  ICE  NO.  II,  990  CALORIES 

(Four  Servings.) 
2  tablespoons  shredded  gelatin.      1  cup  sugar. 
y2  cup  cold  water.  1  cup  orange  juice. 

\y2   cups  boiling  water.  Juice   1  lemon. 

Soak  gelatin  in  the  cold  water  twenty  minutes;  add  boil- 
ing water;  when  gelatin  is  dissolved  add  the  sugar,  orange 
and  lemon  juice.     Cool,  strain  and  freeze  in  large  freezer. 

ORANGE  ICE  NO.  Ill,  1922  CALORIES 

(Four  Servings.) 
1  pint  orange  juice.  Grated  rind  1  orange. 

Juice  2  lemons.  1   quart  water. 

1  pint  sugar. 

Boil  the  water  and  sugar  twenty  minutes;  add  fruit  juice 
and  rind  of  orange.     Cool,  strain  and  freeze  in  large  freezer. 

Note. —  Do  not  use  orange  rind  if  it  will  interfere  me- 
dicinally. 

LEMON  ICE,  257  CALORIES 

(Individual  Rule.) 
%  cup  water.  4  tablespoons  sugar. 

Juice  1  lemon. 

Mix  all  the  ingredients  and  freeze  in  small  pail  according 
to  general  directions. 

FRUIT  ICE,  497  CALORIES 

(Individual  Rule.) 
y2  banana.  Juice  y2  lemon. 

ys  cup  strawberries.  y2  cup  cold  water. 

Juice  y2  orange.  y2  cup  sugar. 

Put  the  fruit  into  a  coarse  strainer  (or  a  potato-ricer),  rub- 
bing it  through  into  a  large  bowl.  Pour  the  cold  water 
ih  rough  the  strainer.  Add  the  sugar,  stir  well  and  freeze 
according  to  general  directions. 


ICES  315 

PINEAPPLE    ICE,    242    CALORIES 

(Individual  Rule.) 
H   (UP   gf*ted   pineapple.  %  cup  water. 

1  tablespoon  lemon  juice.  2  tablespoons  sugar. 

Boil  the  water  and  sugar  together  about  three  minutes; 
add  pineapple  and  lemon  juice.  Cool,  strain  and  freeze  ac- 
cording to  general  directions. 

GRAPE    FRAPPE,    2175    CALORIES 

(Six  Servings.) 
1  pint  grape  juice.  1  pint   water. 

Juice   1  lemon.  2  cups  sugar. 

Boil  the  water  and  sugar  together  for  five  minutes;  cool 
and  add  the  grape  and  lemon  juice.  Freeze  to  the  con- 
sistency of  a  mush.  Serve  in  tall  glasses  with  sweetened 
whipped  cream  piled  high  on  top. 

CLAM    FRAPPE 

(Individual  Rule.) 
%  cup  cold  water.  Speck  paprika. 

y±  cup  clam  broth. 

Blend  and  freeze  according  to  General  Rule,  to  the  con- 
sistency of  a  soft  Water  Ice.  Serve  in  small  punch-glasses 
or  champagne  glasses,  with  a  teaspoon  of  unsweetened 
whipped  cream  on  top  —  Delicious  to  serve  for  dinner  in 
place  of  shellfish.  ' 

SCALPICON  OF  FRUIT 

A  delicious  scalpicon  is  made  by  cutting  all  kinds  of  fresh 
fruits  into  small  pieces  flavoring  with  wine  or  lemon  juice 
and  sugar.  Put  into  serving  dish  with  Orange  or  Lemon 
Ice  on  top.  Serve  individually  in  champagne  glasses  on  a 
small  plate  with  doily,  with  a  single  rose  or  other  flower  to 
correspond  with  color  of  ice. 

ORANGE    STRAWS 

Peel  the  orange  or  lemon  lengthwise;  cut  into  long,  narrow 
strips,  about  one-fourth  of  an  inch  wide.     Put  into  saucepan 


31G  NUTRITIOUS  DESSERTS 

and  cover  with  cold  water  and  bring  to  the  boiling  point  and 
pour  off  the  water;  repeat  this  process  five  or  six  times,  or 
until  the  bitter  taste  of  peel  is  extracted.  Drain  thoroughly 
and  cover  with  granulated  sugar.  Cook  until  sugar  is  dis- 
solved and  is  thick  and  hardens  in  cold  water.  Then  roll 
straws  in  granulated  sugar  and  cool.  Serve  with  Orange  Ice, 
etc.,  or  as  a  bon-bon. 


CHAPTER  XII 
CAKE 

The  two  methods  of  making  cake  light  are  by  means  of 
air  and  of  gas.  Air  is  introduced  by  beating,  or  by  the 
addition  of  beaten  eggs,  as  in  sponge  cake.  When  the  light- 
ness is  entirely  dependent  upon  air,  the  whites  and  yolks  of 
eggs  should  be  beaten  separately. 

Gas  may  be  generated  from  within  by  combining  an  acid 
and  alkali  and  adding  moisture;  as  cream  of  tartar  and 
bicarbonate  of  soda;  or  sour  milk  and  soda;  or  molasses  and 
baking  powder.  The  combination  of  both  air  and  gas  is 
used  to  raise  butter  cakes. 

General  Directions  for  Cake  Making.  Before  blending  the 
cake,  see  that  the  oven  is  at  right  temperature  for  baking 
and  the  pans  greased  with  a  little  beef  fat  and  dredged  with 
flour.  The  pan  may  be  lined  with  paper  to  prevent  cake 
burning  on  bottom  when  cake  requires  long  baking  or  when 
the  oven  bakes  too  quickly  on  the  bottom.  Have  all  material 
at  hand  and  measured.  Use  a  round  bottom  bowl,  and  a 
wooden  spoon  for  mixing;  beat  rather  than  stir  the  mixture 
and  fold  in  ingredients.  Put  mixture  in  cake  pans,  slightly 
higher  on  the  sides  than  in  the  center,  as  cake  rises  more 
quickly  in  the  center.  Layer  cake  takes  a  hotter  oven  than 
loaf  cake.  If  cake  is  baked  properly,  it  will  rise,  but  not 
brown,  during  first  quarter  of  the  time  required  for  baking; 
become  slightly  browned  the  second  quarter;  well  browned 
during  the  third;  and  shrink  from  the  pan  during  the 
fourth. 

If  the  oven  is  too  hot,  a  crust  will  form  over  the  top  be- 
fore the  cake  has  risen  sufficiently  and  the  cake  will  break 

317 


318  CAKE 

open  on  the  top.  If  the  oven  is  too  cool  the  cake  will  rise  too 
much  and  will  be  of  coarse  texture. 

Place  pans  in  oven  in  such  position  that  they  may  remain 
and  do  not  move  them  before  the  third  quarter  of  the  baking. 
If  the  top  of  the  cake  should  brown  too  quickly  cover  with 
a  piece  of  light  weight  paper,  slightly  buttered  on  the  one 
side  and  next  to  the  cake. 

Cake  is  sufficiently  baked  when  it  shrinks  slightly  from 
the  edge  of  the  pan  and  feels  firm  to  the  touch;  if  when 
tested  with  a  fine  washed  and  heated  knitting  or  darning 
needle  and  it  comes  out  clear.  In  looking  at  cake  do  not 
open  the  oven  door  too  wide  and  only  for  a  moment,  and 
care  must  be  taken  not  to  jar  the  door  in  closing. 

SPONGE  CAKE,  1390  CALOEIES 

4  eggs.  1%   level     teaspoons     Rumford's 

1  cup  powdered  sugar.  baking  powder. 

%  cup  bread  flour.  Rind  and  juice  of  y2  lemon. 
y2  teaspoon  salt. 

Beat  eggs  separately,  very  light.  To  the  yolks  add  the 
sugar  and  lemon,  sift  in  carefully  the  flour  blended  with  the 
baking  powder  and  beat  about  five  minutes.  Then  fold  in 
the  whites.  Bake  in  a  well-greased  and  floured  angel  cake 
tin  in  a  moderate  oven.  Cake  is  done  if  when  tested  with  a 
fine  (washed)  knitting  needle  it  comes  out  clear,  or  when  the 
cake  shrinks  from  the  pan. 

COLD  WATER  SPONGE  CAKE,  1633  CALORIES 

2  eggs.  2   level  teaspoons   Rumford  bak- 
1  cup  sugar.  ing  powder. 

6  tablespoons  cold  water.  1  tablespoon  lemon  juice. 

iy3  cups  bread  flour. 

Beat  the  yolks  and  whites  separately.  To  the  yolks  add 
the  sugar  and  beat  well ;  add  lemon  juice  and  cold  water;  sift 
flour  and  baking  powder  together  three  times  and  add  grad- 
ually, beating  thoroughly. 

Fold  in  the  well-beaten  whites.  Bake  in  well-greased  and 
floured  gem  tins,  or  shallow  pan  in  a  moderate  oven. 


CAKE  319 

HOT  WATER  SPONGE  CAKE,  1460  CALORIES 
2  pl  y2  saltspoon   salt. 

1  cup  BUgar.  y2  teaspoon  vanilla. 

1  cup  broad   Hour.  y2  cup  boiling  water. 

1  j  j  level  teaspoons  Rumford  bak- 

ing powder. 

Beat  the  eggs  very  light,  add  the  sugar ;  sift  dry  ingredients 
together  and  add  gradually;  add  flavoring  and  beat  well. 
Lastly  add  the  boiling  water,  and  bake  in  well-greased  and 
floured  gem  tins,  or  shallow  pan.  in  a  moderate  oven. 

PLAIN   CAKE,   2230   CALORIES 

2  eggs.  4  tablespoons   butter. 

y2  cup  milk.  2  level    teaspoons    Rumford    bak- 

1  cup  BUgar.  ing  powder. 

1%  cups  bread  flour  blended  with   1  teaspoon  flavoring  or  spices. 
2   tablespoons  corn-starch. 

Line  the  pan  with  buttered  paper;  separate  eggs.  Cream 
the  butter,  add  the  sugar  gradually,  add  the  well-beaten  yolks 
and  flavoring.  Add  alternately  the  milk  and  the  flour  with 
the  baking  powder  sifted  in  it.  Beat  well  and  fold  in  the 
stiffly-beaten  whites.  Put  at  once  in  a  well-lined  and  greased 
pan,  and  bake  in  a  hot  oven  about  thirty  minutes,  or  until  it 
shrinks  from  the  pan,  or  until  a  fine  (washed)  knitting  needle 
comes  out  dry. 

The  cake  may  be  varied  by  adding  one-fourth  cup  currants, 
or  a  few  raisins  and  a  little  citron,  or  mixed  spices,  or  a  little 
melted  chocolate.  Before  adding  fruit  to  cake  it  should  be 
slightly  floured. 

GLTJTEN  NUT  CAKE  (FOR  THE  DIABETIC),  1436  CALORIES  i 
1  tablespoon  butter.  j ..  teaspoon  Sweetina. 

Yolks  2  i  j  Salt  and  spices. 

Whites  2  eggs.  1  cup  nut  meat-. 

%  cup  -our  milk.  Gum  Gluten  Flour. 

1  teaspoon  soda. 

Cream  the  butter,  add  the  well-beaten  yolks  and  Sweetina 
syrup,  then  the  sour  milk  in  which  the  soda  has  been  blended. 

Add    Gum   Glutei)    Flour  gradually   to  make   a  stiff  batter; 

1  Without  gluten  flour. 


320  CAKE 

season  with  salt  and  spices  and  add  nut  meats.     Bake  in 
moderate  oven. 

BOILED  FROSTING,    853    CALORIES 
1  cup  sugar.  White  1  egg. 

y4  teaspoon  cream  of  tartar.  %  teaspoon  flavoring. 

ys   cup  cold  water.  "■    ^ 

Boil  the  sugar,  cream  of  tartar  and  cold  water  without  stir- 
ring until  it  threads  from  spoon,  and  gradually  pour  on  to 
the  well-beaten  white  of  egg.  Add  any  flavoring  to  taste. 
Beat  until  thick  and  spread  quickly.  A  little  chocolate  may 
be  added  for  variety,  or  chopped  nuts  or  cocoanut,  etc. 

MARGUERITE  WAFERS 

Take  "  Long  Branch "  wafer  crackers  and  spread  with 
plain-boiled  frosting,  or  add  nuts,  chocolate,  cocoanut,  etc. 
Put  in  oven  a  moment  to  dry,  but  not  brown.  Dainty  to 
serve  with  Ice  Cream,  Ices  and  Sherbet. 

GINGER  BREAD,  2600  CALORIES 

1  egg.  y2  cup  boiling  water. 

1  cup  molasses.  1  teaspoon  ginger. 

7  tablespoons  melted  butter.  1%  cups  bread  flour  or 

1  teaspoon  soda.  2%  cups  pastry  flour. 

Beat  egg  in  mixing  bowl ;  add  molasses,  melted  butter,  and 
gradually  one  cup  of  flour.  To  the  remaining  flour  add  the 
soda  and  ginger,  sift  and  add  to  mixture;  beat  well  and  add 
the  boiling  water.  Bake  in  well-greased  and  floured  gem  tins, 
or  shallow  pan,  in  a  hot  oven  about  twenty  minutes.  Test 
with  a  fine  (washed)  darning  needle;  when  it  comes  out  clear, 
or  the  cake  shrinks  from  the  pan  the  cake  is  done. 


PART  III 

HOSPITAL  DIETARIES 

DIET  IN  DISEASE 

DIET  IN  SPECIAL  CONDITIONS 


CHAPTER  XIII 

HOSPITAL  DIETARIES 

GENERAL  TYPES  OF  DIET  USED  IN  HOSPITALS 

LIQUID  OR  FLUID  DIETS 

Foods  to  be  Used.  Acid,  starchy  and  miscellaneous  bev- 
erages (note  various  chapters  for  recipes).  Raw  eggs  in  com- 
bination with  water,  milk,  fruit  juices,  cocoa,  or  other  fluids 
(note  chapter  Albuminous  Beverages).  Milk  either  plain  or 
modified  in  different  ways  as  given  in  recipes  under  chapter ; 
thus  milk  may  be  flavored  with  cocoa,  chocolate,  coffee  or  meat 
broth;  diluted  with  lime  water,  White  Rock  or  Vichy;  com- 
bined with  starchy  drinks  or  strained  gruels.  Broths  of  vari- 
ous kinds;  beef  juice;  beef  tea;  beef  extract.  Soups,  both 
clear  and  creamy. 

LOW  FLUID  DIET,  100-200  CALORIES 

This  consists  practically  of  plain  broths,  clear  soups,  thin 
gruels,  dilute  fruit  juices  slightly  sweetened,  along  with  non- 
nutritious  drinks,  such  as  plain  tea  and  coffee.  These  food 
articles  are  in  reality  not  given  for  their  very  slight  nutritive 
value,  but  because  they  are  palatable  and  at  the  same  time 
enable  the  stomach  to  rest  for  a  day  or  two.  Thus  the  patient 
receives  a  liberal  daily  supply  of  water  (two  or  three  pints) 
in  a  bland  and  agreeable  form. 

FLUID  DIET  WITHOUT  NUTRITIVE  VALUE 
Dr.  lias  Einhorn  i 

8  a.  If.     Tea  or   Coffee   1-2  cups    250-500  C.C. 

12  m.         Bouillon  1-2  cups     250-500  C.C. 

4  p.  m.     Tea  or  Coffee  1-2  cups   250-500  C.C. 

l  Dr.  Max  Einhorn.  Professor  of  Medicine,  N'.w  York  Post  Graduate  School 
and  Hospital;   Physician  to  Post  Graduate  and  German  Hospital,   1917. 

:;2:5 


324  HOSPITAL  DIETARIES 

8  P.  M.     Bouillon  1-2  cups 250-500  C.C. 

2  quarts  of  plain  water,  or  White  Rock,  or  Vichy- 
should  be  consumed,  in  addition,  in  every  24 
hours. 

FLUID  DIET  WITH  LOW  NUTRITIVE  VALUE 
Dr.  Max  Einhorn  i 

Calories 

8  a.m.     Tea  or  Coffee  1-2  cups   250-500  C.C. 

with   one   teaspoonful   of    sugar    16 

12  M.        Thin  Barley  Gruel  10  ounces 300  C.C. 

1  tablespoonful    Crushed    Barley    50 

4  p.m.     Bouillon    1-2    cups    250-500  C.C. 

8  p.  m.     Lemonade  1-2  cups    250-500  C.C. 

with  one  tablespoonful  sugar   60 

Total  126 

2  quarts  of  plain  water,  or  White  Rock,  or  Vichy, 
should  be  consumed,  in  addition,  in  every  24 
hours. 

MEDIUM  FLUID  DIET  (HALF  RATION),  800-900  CALORIES 

This  is  intended  for  very  brief  use  —  a  few  days  at  most,  to 
rest  the  digestive  organs  and  prepare  the  patient  for  the  full 
fluid  regimen.  The  balance  of  the  daily  requirement  must 
be  borrowed  from  the  patient's  own  tissues.  This  diet  may 
be  obtained  from  the  following  articles : 

Milk    1 V2  pints    ( about)    400  calories 

Meat  Broth    iy2  pints    (about)    110 

Cereal  Flour  for  Gruel  . .  1  tablespoon    (about)    40 

Sugar 4  tablespoons     240 

Egg  White 2   27 

Lemon  Juice   4  tablespoons     22 

Coffee,  tea,  vichy,  water   (no  fuel  value)    

Total    839 

In  arranging  these  food  articles  in  a  daily  menu,  individual 
feedings  should  be  small  and  succeed  one  another  every  two 
hours  (eight  or  nine  feedings  daily). 

1  Dr.  Max  Einhorn,  Professor  of  Medicine,  New  York  Post  Graduate  School 
and  Hospital;   Physician  to  Post  Graduate  and  German  Hospital,   1917. 


TYPICAL  HOSPITAL  DIETS 


325 


8 

A 

If. 

10 

A 

M. 

12 

M. 

o 

r. 

M. 

4 

P. 

M. 

6 

P. 

If. 

8 

p. 

M. 

10 

r 

M. 

MEDIUM  FLUID  DIET   (HALF  RATION) 
Dr.  Max  Einhorn  i 

Calories 
10  ounces  300  C.C.     202 


Milk 

Milk      and      strained      barley 

water,  equal  parts 
Bouillon    with    the    white    of 

two  eggs 
Lemonade   with   2   tablespoon- 

fula  sugar 
Milk 
Bouillon    with    the    whites    of 

2    eggs 
Whey 
Lemonade,  witli   2  tablespoon- 

fuls  sugar 


10  ounces  300  C.C.  160 

10  ounces  300  C.C.  30 

10  ounces  300  C.C.  120 

10  ounces  300  C.C.  202 

10  ounces  300  C.C.  30 

10  ounces  300  C.C.  60 

10  ounces  300  C.C.  120 


Total  924 

1    quart  of   water    should   be   taken    in   addition 
in  24  hours. 

FULL  FLUID  DIET 

1800  Calories  at  least 

The  full  fluid  diet  gives  the  full  requirement  for  an  adult 
in  bed  and  can,  if  necessary,  be  used  over  long  periods.  It 
also  serves  as  a  preparation  for  semi-solid  and  convalescent 
diets.     The  calories  mav  be  derived  as  follows : 


Milk 

2'j  pints 

844 

Calories 

Extra  Cream    (thick) 

3%  ounces 

584 

u 

Sugar 

3  tablespoons 

180 

u 

Malted   Milk 

3  tablespoons 

180 

(C 

Egg 

2 

120 

it 

Egg  White 

1 

14 

N 

Cereal   Flour   Gruel 

1  tablespoon  cereal 

flour 

40 

<« 

Grape  Juice 

2  ounces 

60 

« 

Orange  Juice 

4  ounces 

50 

N 

Total    

2072 

U 

A  daily  menu  with  eight  or  nine  feedings,  two  hours  apart 
may  be  arranged  from  the  above  materials. 


l  Dr.  Max  Einhorn,   Professor  of  Medicine,  New  York  Post  Graduate  School 
and  Hospital ;  Physician  to  Post  Graduate  and  German  Hospital,  1917. 


326  HOSPITAL  DIETARIES 

FULL  FLUID  DIET   (FULL  RATION) 
Dr.  Max  Einhorn  i 

Calories 
8  a.m.     Milk  200  C.C.   (6%  oz.),  with 
Coffee  100  C.C.   (Sy3  oz.),  and 
Sugar  2  teaspoonfuls 160 

10  a.  m.     Bouillon  and  1  Egg 82 

12      m.     Milk  200  C.C.   (6%  oz.), 

Cream  50  C.C.   (1%  oz.),  and 

Cereal  50  C.C.    (1%  oz.)    426 

2  p.m.     Milk  200  C.C.    (6%  oz.),  with 
Coffee  100  C.C.   (3y3  oz.)   and 
Sugar  2  teaspoonfuls   160 

4  p.m.     Milk  250  C.C.    (8%  oz.), 

Cream  50  C.C.    (l%oz.)     296 

6  p.m.     Milk  200  C.C.    (6%  oz.) 
Tea  50  C.C.  (1%  oz.) 
Cream  50  C.C.    (1%  oz.)    and 
Sugar  2  teaspoonfuls    328 

8  p.m.     Milk  200  C.C.    (6%  oz.) 
Cream  50  C.C.    (1%  oz.) 
Cereal  50  C.C.    (1%  oz.)    426 

10  p.  m.     Milk  300  C.C.    ( 10  oz. )    192 

Total     2070 

FULL  FLUID  DIET   (SUITABLE  FOR  TYPHOID  FEVER) 

Dr.   F.  P.  Kinnicutt  2 

1900  Calories  with  Low  Fat 

8  a.  m.     Milk  and  coffee  each  4  oz.  120  C.C. 

10  a.  m.     Milk,  hot  or   cold  8  oz.  240  C.C. 

12       m.     Oatmeal  gruel  4  oz.  120  C.C. 

With   milk  2  oz.  60  C.C. 

1  Dr.  Max  Einhorn,   Professor  of  Medicine,  New  York  Post  Graduate  School 
and  Hospital;   Physician  to  Post  Graduate  and  German  Hospital,  1917. 

2  Dr.  F.   P.  Kinnicutt,  "  Diet  Lists  of  the  Presbyterian  Hospital,"  New  York 
City,  page  15. 


2 

P. 

If. 

4 

P. 

M. 

0 

P. 

M. 

8 

P. 

M. 

1" 

P. 

M. 

12 

P. 

If. 

•_> 

A 

It. 

4 

A 

If. 

G 

A 

M. 

8  oz. 

240  C.C. 

4  oz. 

120  C.C 

2  oz. 

60  C.C 

i£  pint 

8  oz. 

240  C.C 

6  oz. 

180  C.C 

4  oz. 

120  C.C 

2  oz. 

60  C.C 

8  oz. 

240  C.C 

8  oz. 

240  C.C. 

8  oz. 

240  C.C 

TYPICAL  HOSPITAL  DIETS  32' 

Milk 

Oatmeal    irruel 
With   milk 
Custard   with   lactose 
Hot  milk 

Whey  with  one  whole  egg  and  sherry 
Oatmeal  gruel 
Milk 
Milk 

Broth  with   1   whole  egg 
Milk 

This  diet   is  given  in    12   feedings,   every  two 
hours,  both  day  and  night. 

Approximate  Values. —  Protein,  98  gm.  (3^  oz.)  ;  fat,  52  gm. 
I  l-3  oz.)  ;   carbohydrates,  150  gm.    (5  oz.)  ;  calories,  1900. 

HIGH  CALORY  FLUID  DIET 

When  as  a  consequence  of  influenza  or  any  severe  mental 
strain  there  is  a  continuous  loss  of  appetite,  with  complete 
repugnance  to  solid  food,  an  individual  may  secure  sufficient 
daily  calories  for  leading  a  fairly  active  life  through  fluid 
diet  in  the  form  of  egg  nogs.  One  of  the  latter  composed 
of  8  oz.  of  milk  or  thin  cream  with  the  addition  of  two  eggs 
and  one  tablespoonful  of  sugar  will  yield  from  350  to  600  cal- 
ories, and  one  made  of  a  mixture  of  equal  parts  of  whole  milk 
and  thin  cream  will  yield  nearly  500  calories.  If  intended 
for  brief  use  only,  a  few  days  at  most,  the  occasional  addi- 
tion of  an  ounce  of  spirits  will  not  only  add  nearly  100  extra 
calories,  but  will  perhaps  cause  a  slight  desire  for  other  foods, 
such  as  dipped  toast.  From  4  to  6  of  these  egg  nogs  daily, 
according  to  the  food  value  will  secure  at  least  2000  calories. 

The  high  calory  diet  used  in  Typhoid  Fever  may  be  adapted 
to  other  conditions  (note  Chapter  XIV).1 

MILK  DIET 
Bellevue  Hospital 
During  the  day  give  6  to  8  ounces  every  two  hours. 
During  the  night  give  6  to  8  ounces  every  three  hours. 

i  Page  342. 


328  HOSPITAL  DIETARIES 

(When  very  ill  give  every  two  hours  during  the  night.) 
Three   quarts   with    3000    c.c. :     Protein,    100    gm.    (3% 

oz.)  ;  fat,  120  gm.   (4  oz.) ;  carbohydrate,  150  gm.   (5  oz.) ; 

calories,  2160;  chlorids,  5.2  gm. 

MODIFIED  MILK  FLUID  DIET 
Dr.  W.  Coleman  i 
See  "  Typhoid  Fever,"  Page  342. 

SOFT  OR  SEMI-SOLID  DIET 

Foods  to  be  Used.  All  fluid  foods.  Milk  and  water  gruels. 
Water,  milk  or  creamy  toast.  Toast  softened  with  broth. 
Starchy  and  meat  jellies.  Custards  in  various  forms.  Whips 
and  souffles.  Junkets,  cornstarch  puddings  or  blanc-mange, 
gelatins  jellies.  Ice  cream,  sherbet,  ices.  Plain  cream  and 
butter.     (Meats,  fish,  and  green  vegetables  are  to  be  omitted.) 

Soft  or  Semi-Solid  Diet.  This  differs  from  a  full  liquid 
diet  in  including  a  number  of  semi-solid  dishes,  and  having 
generally  a  larger  caloric  value  (2000-2200  calories).  It 
must  be  simple,  well  cooked  and  attractively  served,  so  as  to  be 
easy  of  digestion. 

The  following  suggests  some  of  the  possibilities  for  ar- 
rangement of  foods  which  are  suitable  for  this  type  of  diet : 

TYPICAL  MENU  FOR  A  SOFT  OR  SEMI-SOLID  DIET 

Dr.  Mary  S.  Rose  2 

2000-2200    Calories 

7  a.  m.     1  cup  hot  milk    (may  be  flavored  with  tea  or  coffee). 
9:30  a.m.     %  cup  grape  or  pineapple  juice. 

1  cup  thick  farina  gruel  served  with  rich  milk. 
1  thin  slice  toast  with  butter. 
12  Noon.     1  cup  beef  broth  with  the  white  of  1  egg. 
1  thin  slice  toast  with  butter. 
2:30  p.m.     %  cup  of  chicken  souffle". 
14  thin  slice  toast. 
%  cup  lemon  jelly  with  1  tablespoonful  whipped  cream. 

1  Dr.  W.  Coleman,  American  Journal  of  Medical  Sciences,  January,  1912. 

2  Man.-  Swartz  Rose,  Ph.D.,  "  Feeding  the  Family,"  The  Macmillan  Co.,  New 
York,   JG17. 


TYPICAL  HOSPITAL  DIETS  329 

5  p.m.     1  cup  milk  ilavored  with  tea  or  cocoa. 
y^  thin    slice   toast. 
7:30  p.m.     ^  cup  bouillon. 
1  egg  omelet. 

}£  cup  cocoa  or  caramel  junket. 
10  p.m.     1  cup  gruel  or  malted  milk   (made  with  milk). 
1  thin  slice  toast. 

LIQUID  AND  SOFT-SOLID  DIET 

Massachusetts  General  Hospital  i 

For  Typhoid  Fever,  Acute  Infectious  Diseases,  Convales- 
cence from  Operation,  Heart  Decompensation. 


Wheat  cereal  (as  wheat  germ  or  shredded  wheat)  with 

cream  or  salt  only.     Milk,  4  ounces. 
Crackers  and  milk  or  eggnog. 
Pea  or  potato  puree. 
Soft  or  cream  toast. 
Soft  boiled  egg. 
Rice,  tapioca  or  custard. 
Cereal  or  rice.     Milk,  4  ounces. 
Crackers  and  milk. 

Grape  juice,  lemonade,  orangeade,  albumin  water  with 


Indian  meal  mush   or   Farina.     Milk. 
Crackers  and  milk. 
Minced  chicken,  mashed  potatoes. 
Chocolate  or  crackers  and  milk. 
Cream  toast.     Ice  cream  or  custard. 
Crackers  and  milk  or  malted  milk. 


Cerealin.     Milk. 

Malted  milk  or  crackers  and  milk. 

Soft  boiled  eggs,  rice,  apple  sauce. 

Cornstarch  or  custard. 

Potato  pur^e,  toast. 

Crackers  and  milk. 

l  Diet  used  at  the  Massachusetts  General  Hospital,  Boston,  1917. 


First 

Day 

8 

A 

M. 

10-11 

A 

M. 

1 

P. 

M. 

3-4 

P. 

If. 

6 

P. 

M. 

8 

P. 

M. 

Drink 

3  — 

sugar. 

Second  Day 

8 

A 

M. 

10-11 

A 

M. 

1 

I'. 

M. 

3 

I'. 

M. 

6 

I'. 

M. 

9 

P. 

M. 

Thibd  Day 

8 

A 

M. 

10-11 

A. 

M. 

1 

P. 

If. 

3-4 

P. 

M. 

6 

P. 

M. 

9 

P. 

M. 

330 


HOSPITAL  DIETARIES 


LIGHT  OR  CONVALESCENT  DIET 

A  simple  mixed  diet  is  suitable  for  convalescence.  Foods 
recognized  as  difficult  of  digestion  should  be  avoided,  and  em- 
phasis laid  on  milk,  eggs,  toast,  well  cooked  cereals,  and  other 
foods  used  in  Soft  Diet,  mild  fruits  and  well-cooked  vege- 
tables may  be  added  cautiously  and  tender  meat  about 
once  a  day.  The  fuel  value  should  be  liberal,  probably  2200 
to  2500  calories  per  day. 

DIET  FOR  CONVALESCENTS 
Dr.  Max  Einhorn  i 
2  soft  boiled  or  poached  eggs. 
Toast  and  butter. 
Coffee  with  milk  and  sugar. 
Egg  nog. 

Crackers  and  butter. 
Cream  soup,  or  meat  soup. 
White  bread  and  butter. 
Tender  meat. 
Mashed  or  baked  potato. 
Spinach   or   cauliflower. 
Custard  or  tapioca  pudding. 
Egg  nogg. 

Crackers  and  butter. 
Fish  or  oysters. 

Scrambled  or   coddled   eggs  or   omelette. 
Toast  and  butter. 

1  cup  weak  tea  with  milk  and  sugar. 
Rice  or  tapioca  pudding. 
1  glassful  of  milk,  or  kumyss. 
Crackers  and  butter. 


Breakfast 


10:30  A.M. 


Lunch 
12:30 


3:30  p.m. 


6:30  P.  M. 


9:30  P.M. 


GENERAL  CONVALESCENT  DIET 

New  York  Hospital  2 

6  a.  m. —  Milk,  7  oz.    (210  c.cm.)    if  desired. 

Breakfast. —  Coffee  or  tea  with  milk  and  sugar,  or  milk;  1  egg.  or 
fresh  fish,  or  plain  stew;  cereal  with  milk  and  sugar:  toast 
and  butter  or  rolls  or  bread   (white,  graham  or  brown). 

Dinner. —  Broth  or  soup  with  barley  or  vegetables;   bread  and  but- 

1  Dr.  Max  Einhorn,  Professor  of  Medicine,  New  York  Post  Graduate  School 
and  Hospital;   Physician  to  Post  Graduate  and  German  Hospital,  1917. 

8  Modified  from  New  York  Hospital  Diets  by  Herbert  S.  Carter, 
"  Diet  Lists  of  the  Presbyterian  Hospital,"  New  York  City.  W.  B.  Sanders  Co., 
Philadelphia,  Pa. 


TYPICAL  HOSPITAL  DIETS  331 

ter:  milk:  potatoes  (baked,  boiled  or  mashed)  ;  rice,  macaroni 

or  hominy;  beef,  chicken  or  fish;  pudding,  ice  cream  or  fruit. 
Supper. —  Tea    or    milk;    toast    and    butter    or    bread;    cooked    fruit 

apples,  stewed  or  baked,  prunes,  rhubarb,  apricots  or  pears; 

egg. 
8   p.    m. —  Milk,   210  c.c.    (7   oz.).     Total   quantity   of  milk   allowed 

should  not  exceed  2%  pints    (1250  c.c). 

SPECIAL  CONVALESCENT  DIET 

Xew  York   Hospital  i 

SUNDAY 

Breakfast. —  Wheatena,   1   egg. 

Dinner. —  Chicken,  baked  potato,  orange. 

Supper. —  Egg,  prunes. 

MONDAY 
Breakfast. —  Hominy,  stew. 

Dinner. —  Roast  beef,  mashed  potato,  rice  pudding. 
Supper. —  Eggs,  pears  or  apricots. 

TUESDAY 

Breakfast. —  Oatmeal,   1   egg. 

Dinner. —  Fresh  fish,  boiled  potato,  hominy,  ice  cream. 

Supper. —  Egg,  stewed  apples. 

WEDNESDAY 
Breakfast. —  Wheatena,   fresh   fish. 

Dinner. —  Chicken,  baked  potato,   macaroni,   tapioca  pudding. 
Supper. — Egg,  rhubarb  or  prunes. 

THURSDAY 

Breakfast. —  Hominy,  1  egg. 

Dinner. —  Boikd  beef,  mashed  potato,  rice,  baked  custard. 

Supper. —  Egg,  baked  apple. 

FRIDAY 
Breakfast. —  Oatmeal,  1  egg. 

Dinner. —  Fresh  fish,  boiled  potato,  macaroni,  ice  cream. 
per. —  Egg,  prunes. 

SATURDAY 
Breakfast. —  Cornmeal,  stew. 

•r. —  Chicken,  mashed  potato,  hominy,  cornstarch  pudding. 
r. —  Egg,  apricots  or  pears. 

i  Modified  from  New  York  Hospital  Diets  bv  Herbert  S.  Carter,  "  Diet  Li«ts 
of  the  Presbyterian  Hospital,"  New  York  (itv.  U.  B.  Sanders  Co.,  Phila- 
delphia, Pa. 


332  HOSPITAL  DIETARIES 

Approximate  Values  to  be  Given 

Total 
Protein  Carbohydrate  Fat        Calories 

Men    lOOgm.  (3^oz.)     300gm.  ( 10  oz.)     90  gm.  (3     oz.)     2500 

Women     .   80  gm.  (2%oz.)      300  gm.  (lOoz.)      80  gm.  (2%oz.)      2200 

REGULAR  HOUSE  DIET 

New  York  Hospital  i 

The  regular  house  diet  in  institutions  comprises  a  great 
variety  of  dishes,  so  that  it  is  always  possible  to  consult  econ- 
omy in  making  a  selection.  It  consists  of  a  general  plan  of 
feeding,  in  which  general  terms  like  soup,  meat,  cereal,  fruit, 
puddings  are  set  down,  together  with  beverages  and  bread  and 
butter.  The  special  diet  gives  the  particular  cereal,  soup, 
etc.,  for  each  day  and  meal.  There  is,  however,  no  absolute 
distinction  between  the  two  diets,  for  as  will  be  noted,  the  gen- 
eral plan  contains  certain  special  dishes  which  do  not  appear 
in  the  special  diets. 

GENERAL  HOUSE  DIET 

Breakfast. —  Coffee  or  tea  with  milk  or  sugar,  or  milk;  bread  and 
butter;   eggs;   cereal  with  milk  or  sugar;   fresh  fish;  hash. 

Dinner. —  Soup;  meat  or  fish;  potatoes  (baked,  boiled  or  mashed); 
one  of  the  following  vegetables:  spinach,  squash,  boiled  on- 
ions, beets,  sweet  potatoes,  macaroni,  tomatoes,  corn;  bread 
and  butter;  milk  180  c.c.   (6  oz.)  ;  pudding  or  fruit. 

Supper. —  Tea  or  milk;  bread  and  butter;  cooked  fruit  (prunes, 
apples  or  rhubarb)  ;  apricots,  pears;  cold  meat;  egg;  cereal 
with  milk  and  sugar;  milk  toast. 

The  total  quantity  of  milk  allowed  should  not  exceed  1%  pints. 
Male  ward  patients  are  allowed  two  eggs,  females,  one  egg. 

SPECIAL  HOUSE  DIET 

SUNDAY 

Breakfast. —  Wheatena,  eggs. 

Dinner. —  Chicken,  tomatoes,  baked  potatoes,  fresh  fruit. 

Supper. —  Cold  meat,  prunes. 

l  Modified  from  New  York  Hospital  Diet  Lists  by  Dr.  Herbert  S.  Carter, 
•'  Diet  Lists  of  the  Presbyterian  Hospital,"  New  York  City.  W.  B.  Sanders  Co., 
Philadelphia,   Pa. 


TYPICAL  HOSPITAL  DIETS  333 

MONDAY 

Breakfast. —  Hominy,  bacon. 

Dinner. —  Vegetable  soup,  roast  mutton,  spinach  or  corn,  mashed  po- 
tatoes,  rice  pudding. 
Supper. —  Eggs,  apricots. 

TUESDAY 
Breakfast. —  Oatmeal,  eggs. 

Dinner. —  Lamb  stew,  boiled  potatoes,  beets,  sago  pudding. 
Supper. —  Cereal  with  milk  and  sugar,  apples. 

WEDNESDAY 
Breakfast. —  Wheatena,  fresh  fish. 

Dinner. —  Chicken,  baked  potatoes,  boiled  onions,  baked  apples. 
Supper. —  Cold  meat,  rhubarb  or  prunes. 

THURSDAY 

Breakfast. —  Hominy,  eggs. 

Dinner. —  Pea  soup,   roast  mutton,   mashed   potatoes,   squash,   bread 

pudding. 
Supper. —  Milk-toast,  baked  apple. 

FRIDAY 
Breakfast. —  Oatmeal,  egg. 

Dinner. —  Fish,  boiled  potatoes,  macaroni  and  tomatoes,  rice  pudding. 
Supper. —  Eggs,  prunes. 

SATURDAY 

Breakfast. —  Cornmeal,  hash. 

Dinner. —  Vegetable   soup,   meat  stew,   mashed   potatoes,   spinach   or 

corn,  cornstarch  pudding. 
Supper. —  Eggs,  apricots  or  pears. 

Approximate  Values  to  be  Given 

Total 
Protein  Carbohydrates  Fat        Calories 

Men    ...   90gm.  (3     oz.)     300  gm.  (10     oz.)      70  gm.  (2V3OZ.)      2200 
Women     80  gm.  (2%oz.)     250  gm.  (   8^oz.)     60  gm.  (2     oz.)      1800 


CHAPTER  XIV 
DIET  IN  DISEASE 

One  of  the  most  striking  differences  between  the  older  and 
more  recent  methods  of  treatment  of  disease  is  the  careful 
attention  bestowed  upon  the  diet  at  the  present  day.  For  it  is 
now  recognized  that  the  proper  selection  of  food,  both  solid 
and  fluid,  is  of  as  much  importance  as  the  use  of  medicaments. 
In  the  management  of  diseases  affecting  the  digestive  organs 
proper,  and  in  all  affections  of  metabolism  (gout,  obesity  and 
diabetes,  for  example)  the  diet  may  be  said  to  represent  the 
treatment,  and  there  is  hardly  any  disease  which  may  not  be 
benefited  by  intelligent  feeding. 

These  matters,  however,  are  left  entirely  to  the  medical  prac- 
titioner, and  it  is  only  exceptionally  that  the  nurse  is  required 
to  assume  any  responsibility.  She  should  know  in  a  general 
way,  however,  the  types  of  food  suitable  in  different  diseased 
conditions,  so  that  she  may  avoid  harmful  foods  when  not 
given  specific  instructions,  and  so  that  she  may  adapt  the 
prescribed  diet  to  the  tastes  of  the  individual.  For  this  pur- 
pose, an  outline  of  the  diets  in  use  in  common  diseases  is 
included  in  this  volume. 

DIET  IN  FEVERS  AND  INFECTIOUS  DISEASES 

DIET  IN  FEVER  IN  GENERAL 

In  fevers  due  to  poisons  circulating  in  the  blood,  there  is 
in  interference  with  heat  regulation,  so  that  the  heat  gen- 
erated in  the  body  cannot  be  gotten  rid  of  in  the  normal 
way;  an  increased  metabolism;  and  a  disturbance  of  the  di- 
gestive functions  especially  in  the  early  stages.  It  is,  there- 
fore, desirable  to  give  easily  digested  food,  in  small  quantities 

334 


FEVERS  AXD  IXFECTIOUS  DISEASES       335 

at  frequent  intervals,  preferably  in  liquid  form,  as  substances 

dissolved  in  water  are  more  readily  absorbed,  and  water  tends 
to  aid  in  cooling  the  body  to  normal  temperature. 

For  the  first  three  or  four  days,  patients  previously  strong, 
should  be  given  only  fluid  foods.  But  since  a  normal  man, 
lying  quietly  in  bed,  requires  about  2000  calories  to  com- 
pensate for  daily  loss  of  energy,  and  in  the  increased  metab- 
olism of  fever,  this  requirement  is  increased,  it  is  necessary 
that  more  substantial  food  be  incorporated  into  the  diet  as  far 
as  is  possible  without  disturbing  digestion. 

DIET. —  Milk  is  the  staple  food,  but  must  be  given  with  care, 
swallowed  very  slowly  and  diluted  with  limewater,  soda,  seltzer  or 
other  effervescent  water  —  one  part  to  two  parts  milk. 

If  milk  can  be  taken,  two  or  three  pints  should  be  given  —  four 
ounces  every  two  hours,  or  six  ounces  every  three  hours.  In  case 
milk  does  not  agree,  whey  may  be  given  as  a  substitute  for  milk  in 
part  or  in  whole.  Modified  milk  or  peptonized  milk  may  be  given. 
Sometimes  the  milk  may  be  flavored  with  tea,  coffee,  cocoa  or 
malted  milk  and  junket  used. 

Next  to  milk  the  most  important  article  of  diet  is  beef  juice  and 
broths.  Xext  come  well  cooked  gruels.  Later  well  prepared  cereals 
and  malt  extract  are  valuable,  and  plain  or  cocoa  junkets.  Usually 
there  is  thirst,  and  all  acid  drinks,  such  as  grape  juice,  may  be  taken. 

Panopepton  with  crushed  ice,  peptonised  milk,  clam,  mutton  and 
eh  i cken  broth,  beef  tea,  clear  soups,  thickened  with  some  farinaceous 
substance,  gelatin  jellies,  are  all  of  value. 

Liquids, —  Pure  cold  water,  toast  water,  any  of  the  acid  drinks, 
all  -ipped  slowly,  are  recommended  both  to  relieve  thirst  and  on 
account  of  facilitating  the  speed  with  which  the  waste  matter  re- 
sulting from  increased  metabolism  of  the  fever  is  eliminated  through 
the  kidneys. 

AVOID. —  Any  solid  or  vegetable  food  or  fruits,  until  permitted 
by  the  physician  in  charge. 

DIET  IN  CONVALESCENCE  FHOM  FEVER 

Thompson  i 

Convalescents  who  have  long  subsisted  solely  upon  fluids 

must  be  careful  in  resuming  solid  diet,  for  the  rapidity  of 

recuperation  of  the  digestive  organ-  varies  in  different  per- 

1  W.  (Jilmaii  Thompson,  M.D.  :  "Practical  Dietetics."  New  York.  D. 
Appleton  &   Co. 


336  DIET  IN  DISEASE 

sons,  and  taking  meats  or  other  solid  foods  too  soon  may  cause 
rise  in  temperature,  rapid  heart  action,  and  possibly  visceral 
congestion.  The  first  meat  given,  therefore,  should  be  in  a 
finely  subdivided  state,  such  as  scraped  beef  or  minced  chicken. 

During  convalescence  from  protracted  fevers  the  more 
easily  digested  forms  of  starchy  foods  are  found  to  be  very 
useful,  especially  if  there  has  been  much  loss  of  weight.  Sago 
and  tapioca,  and  dried  bread  crumbs  rolled  through  a  fine 
sieve  may  be  added  to  thicken  clear  meat  broths.  Crackers 
and  zwieback  are  useful. 

Other  ingredients  which  may  be  added  to  thicken  soups 
during  convalescence  are  panada,  semolina,  tapioca,  and  maca- 
roni. Custard  puddings,  cooked  fruit,  wine  and  beef  jellies, 
blanc-mange,  or  baked  custard,  may  be  allowed.  "  Mush," 
fine  hominy,  cornstarch,  farina,  and  boiled  rice,  with  beef 
juice,  can  be  ordered. 

The  following  dietary  will  serve  as  a  general  guide  for 
feeding  convalescents  from  fevers  of  ordinary  severity  in 
which  special  lesions  of  the  alimentary  canal  are  not  present. 

FIRST  DAY 
Breakfast. —  Poached  egg  on  toast.     Cocoa. 
Lunch. —  Milk  punch. 

Dinner. —  Raw  oysters.     Cream  crackers.     Light  wine  if  desired. 
Lunch. —  One  cup  of  hot  meat  broth. 
Supper. —  Milk  toast.     Wine  jelly.     Tea. 

SECOND  DAY 
Breakfast. —  Soft  cooked  egg.     Milk  punch.     Coffee  with  sugar  and 

cream. 
Lunch. —  One  cup  of  soft  custard. 
Dinner. —  Cream  of  celery  soup.     Sippets  of  toast.     A  little  "barley 

pudding,  with  cream.     Sherry  wine  if  desired. 
Lunch. —  Milk  punch. 
Supper. —  Water  toast,  buttered.     Wine  jelly.     Tea. 

THIRD  DAY 
Breakfast. —  Coddled  eggs.     Cream  toast.     Cocoa. 
Lunch. —  One  cup  of  hot  chicken  broth. 

Dinner. —  Chicken  panada.     Bread.     Light  wine  if  desired.     A  little 
tapioca  cream. 


FEVERS  AND  INFECTIOUS  DISEASES       337 

Lunch. —  An  eggnog. 

Supper. —  Buttered  dry  toast.     Baked  sweet  apples  and  cream.     Tea. 

FOURTH  DAY 
Breakfast. —  An  orange.     Oatmeal    (H.  0.),  with  cream  and  sugar. 

Poached  egg  on  toast.     Baked  potato.     Cocoa. 
Lunch. —  One  cup  of  hot,  soft  custard. 
Dinner. —  Potato     soup.     Croutons.     A     small     piece     of    beefsteak. 

Creamed  potatoes.     Baked  custard.     Coffee. 
Lunch. —  One  cup  of  chicken  broth,   with   rice. 
Supper. —  Raw   oysters.     Banquet   crackers.     Graham   bread,   toasted 

Wine  jelly.     Tea. 

FIFTH  DAY 

Breakfast. —  An  orange.  Coffee.  Oatmeal,  with  cream  and  sugai 
Broiled  mutton  chop.     Toast. 

Lunch. —  One  cup  of  mulled  wine. 

Dinner. —  Chicken  soup.  Bread.  Creamed  sweetbreads.  Duchess  po- 
tatoes.    Snow  pudding.     Cocoa. 

Lunch. —  Siphon  soda,  with  coffee  syrup  and  cream. 

Supper. —  Buttered  dry  toast.  Orange  jelly.  Sponge  cake  and 
cream.     Tea. 

The  reader  is  referred  to  the  general  discussion  of  Con- 
valescence Diet  given  under  Hospital  Dietaries.     Page  330. 

TYPHOID  FEVER 

The  modern  dietetics  of  typhoid  fever  has  undergone  a 
rather  radical  change  in  the  light  of  the  very  significant  work 
done  by  physicians  x  in  the  past  few  years.  There  is  no  longer 
any  necessity  for  giving  the  starvation  treatment.  A  fluid 
diet  is  advisable  at  first,  and  perhaps  for  some  time  during 
the  febrile  period.  As  soon  as  the  individual  patient  is  in  a 
fit  condition,  however,  soft  diet  yields  the  best  results. 

As  in  the  past,  constant  attention  from  the  physician  and 
nurse  is  a  most  important  factor.  A  schedule  must  be  worked 
out  for  each  patient,  and  then  strictly  adhered  to  by  the  nurse. 
All  developments  must  be  carefully  watched,  noted  and  cared 
for,  chiefly  by  an  alteration  in  the  diet. 

lDr.  W.  Coleman,  Bellpvue  Hospital.  New  York  City:  Dr.  Eugene  F.  DuBois. 
Med.  Director,  Bellevue  Hospital;  Dr.  B.  B.  Crohn.  Mt.  Sinai  Hospital  New 
York;  Dr.  Kelly,  Dr.  LaFetra,   Dr.   Shroeder  and  others. 


338  DIET  IN  DISEASE 

The  first  important  clinical  evidence  of  the  value  of  a 
liberal  diet,  is  that  given  by  Dr.  Shattuck.1 

k*  When  typhoid  kills,  it  does  so  either  by  perforation  or  ex- 
haustion. The  main  factors  in  producing  exhaustion,  which 
causes  the  death  of  at  least  nine-tenths  of  the  fatal  cases,  are 
toxemia,  continued  fever,  diarrhea  and  vomiting,  and  in- 
testinal hemorrhage." 

"  Most  of  us  are  agreed  that  we  are  not  as  yet  acquainted 
with  any  therapeutic  measures  which  either  abort  or  very 
materially  shorten  the  course  of  the  disease.  We  are,  I  think, 
unanimous  in  believing  that  husbanding  the  strength  from 
the  start  through  skillful  nursing,  the  judicious  use  of  water 
externally  and  internally,  and  the  supervision  of  a  wise  at- 
tendant on  the  watch  for  and  prepared  to  meet  such  indica- 
tions as  may  arise,  materially  modifies  the  course  of  the  dis- 
ease and  lessens  its  mortality.  If  what  I  have  assumed  to  be 
facts  be  really  facts,  the  question  of  diet  must  be  a  very  im- 
portant one  in  the  management  of  typhoid  fever.  It  is 
through  the  food  which  is  assimilated,  not  through  that  which 
is  merely  put  into  the  stomach,  that  we  seek  to  limit  the  tissue 
waste  while  the  process  is  active,  and  also  try  to  land  the  pa- 
tient on  the  low  shore  of  convalescence  with  as  much  of  his 
property  as  may  be;  for  the  recovery  of  his  property  is  a  nec- 
essary preliminary  to  the  attainment  of  the  high  tableland  of 
full  health." 

"  I  may  perhaps  add  here  that  diarrhea  is  not  nearly  as 
constant  a  symptom  in  typhoid  fever  as  the  books  lead  stu- 
dents to  believe.  In  at  least  50  per  cent,  of  my  hospital 
cases  no  diarrhea  was  present  at  any  time.  We  must  there- 
fore have  reference  to  the  local  intestinal  lesions  as  well  as 
to  the  general  state.  In  a  disease  of  such  long  course  it  is 
impossible  to  prevent  accidents  by  putting  the  bowels  in  splints, 
even  if  it  were  desirable  to'  do  so.     More  or  less  peristalsis 

i  Dr.  Frederick  C.  Shattuck.  From  a  paper  on  "  Liberal  Diet  in  Typhoid 
Fever,"  read  by  title  in  the  Section  of  Practice  of  Medicine  at  the  48th  Annual 
Meeting  of  the  American  Medical  Association  at  Philadelphia,  Pa.,  June,  1897. 
Corroborated  in  Vol.  II — "  Therapeusis  of  Internal  Diseases" — edited  by 
Forcheimer  —  1918.     Pages  11-16. 


FEVERS  AND  INFECTIOUS  DISEASES       339 

must  go  on,  and  waste  matter  must  pass  over  the  ulcerated 
surfaces ;  and  how  deep  or  extensive  the  ulcerated  surface  may 
be  in  any  particular  case  no  symptom  or  group  of  symptoms 
enables  us  to  measure.  Hence,  it  seems  rational,  quite  apart 
from  the  fever,  to  withhold  from  the  diet  any  articles  the 
residue  of  which  is  liable  to  irritate  either  the  mucous  mem- 
brane in  general  or  the  ulcerated  portion  in  particular.  This 
would  seem  a  fair  explanation  for  the  popularity  of  milk  as 
a  diet  for  typhoid,  containing  as  it  does  a  large  proportion 
of  water,  and  every  principle  necessary  to  nutrition,  so  com- 
bined as  to  make  relatively  small  demands  on  the  digestion  of 
most  persons,  and  leaving  a  residue  which,  though  notoriously 
large,  is  not  mechanically  irritating.  The  objection  to  milk 
is  that  it  is  repugnant  to  a  few  persons,  and  becomes  either 
repugnant  or  monotonous  to  a  considerable  number  sooner  or 
later.  It  is  not  necessary  here  to  specify  the  many  expedi- 
ents which  may  and  often  must  be  resorted  to  to  overcome 
this  objection,  and  in  some  cases  to  render  it  digestible 
whether  palatable  or  not.  Milk  is  likely  to  maintain  a  very 
important,  perhaps  leading  place  in  the  diet  of  typhoid,  as 
well  as  of  other  diseases  and  conditions." 

"During  the  twelve  years,  1886  to  1897  (both  inclusive), 
380  cases  of  typhoid  fever  have  come  under  my  personal  care 
in  the  Massachusetts  General  Hospital.  From  1886  to  1893, 
233  cases  were  treated  under  a  milk  diet,  with  a  mortality  of 
10  per  cent.  From  1892  to  1897,  147  cases  have  been  treated 
under  a  much  more  extended  diet  with  a  mortality  of  81 
per  cent.  I  know  well  the  liability  to  reach  false  conclusions 
in  reasoning  from  too  small  figures  in  a  disease  like  typhoid 
fever.  And  it  is  also  true  that  water  has  been  used  more 
efficiently  of  late  than  in  former  years.  But  I  can  see  noth- 
ing in  my  figures  to  contravene  my  observation  that  an  en- 
larged diet  has  not  been  injurious.  T  would  not  be  under- 
stood as  advor-nt  inif  an  indiscriminate  diet.  My  plea  is  simply 
for  treating  the  patient  rather  than  the  disease;  for  feeding 
him  with  reference  to  his  digestive  power  rather  than  Bolely 


340  DIET  IN  DISEASE 

or  mainly  with  reference  to  his  fever;  for  the  view  that  the 
danger  of  accidents  from  the  local  intestinal  ulceration  is  not 
increased  by  allowing  him  to  partake  of  articles  which  leave 
no  irritating  residue,  and  which  cautious  trial  shows  are  di- 
gested without  disturbance  or  discomfort." 

Through  observing  some  patients,  to  whom,  because  of  great 
weakness,  a  full  diet  was  given,  Dr.  Shattuck  found  that  the 
increased  diet,  led  to  a  happier  and  more  rapid  convalescence, 
and  consequently,  enlarged  his  dietetic  treatment  for  all  sub- 
sequent cases. 

It  seems  strange  that  this  did  not  command  wider  attention, 
but  a  long  habit  is  hard  to  overcome.  Dr.  Shattuck's  views 
are  now  upheld  by  scientific  as  well  as  by  clinical  evidence. 
One  of  the  most  significant  contributions  to  the  science  of 
feeding  has  been  made  by  Dr.  Coleman1  and  his  associates, 
who  have  studied  typhoid  patients  in  a  respiration  calorim- 
eter 2  (large  enough  to  allow  for  a  patient  in  bed)  and  in 
other  ways  determined  accurately  the  effect  of  food.  A  suf- 
ficient number  of  cases  has  been  studied  to  give  us  convincing 
evidence  of  the  beneficial  results  of  high  feeding. 

THE  HIGH  CALORY  FEEDING  3 

Dr.  Coleman  estimated  that  the  minimum  daily  requirement 
should  be  40  calories  per  kilogram  (2.2  pounds)  of  body 
weight  —  that  is  3000  calories  for  a  man  of  70  kilograms 
(154  pounds).  This  diet  did  not  prevent  loss  of  body  weight. 
To  prevent  loss,  from  60  to  80  calories  per  kilogram  are 
needed.  The  optimum  amount  must  be  determined  for  each 
patient. 

Those  foods  which  are  easy  of  digestion  and  of  high  nu- 
tritive value,  are  used.  Carbohydrate  foods  contribute  about 
half  in  point  of  calories.     Sugar  in  the  form  of  lactose  (milk 

1  Dr.  W.  Coleman,  Bellevue  Hospital,  New  York  City;  Dr.  Eugene  F.  DuBois, 
Med.  Director,  Bellevue  Hospital ;  Dr.  B.  B.  Crohn,  Mt.  Sinai  Hospital,  New 
York;   Dr.  Kelly,  Dr.  LaFetra,   Dr.   Shroeder  and  others. 

2  The   Respiratory  Calorimeter  at  Bellevue  Hospital,   New  York. 

3  Dr.  W.  Coleman,  "  The  High  Calory  Diet  in  Typhoid  Fever,"  American 
Journal  of  Medical  Sciences,  Jan.,  1912,  and  other  papers  by  him  and  his  col- 
leagues. 


FEVERS  AND  INFECTIOUS  DISEASES       341 

sugar)  is  the  best,  as  it  is  less  inclined  to  ferment,  and  more 
can  be  taken  because  of  its  lack  of  sweetness. 

Protein  has  the  same  drawbacks  in  fever  as  in  health,  and 
should  be  limited  to  from  60  to  90  grams  per  day.  Dr.  Cole- 
man does  not  advocate  the  use  of  meat  as  a  source  of  protein. 
Enough  can  be  obtained  elsewhere,  and  meat  is  more  liable 
to  putrefaction. 

Pat  is  of  great  value,  especially  after  the  first  few  days  of 
the  febrile  period,  and  during  convalescence.  It  has  a  ten- 
dency to  cause  nausea  or  diarrhea  if  given  in  excess. 

Each  patient  must  be  studied  to  find  out  his  maximum. 
Fat  should  be  given  in  an  emulsified  form,  as  cream,  butter 
or  egg-yolk. 

The  patient  should  first  be  put  on  a  low  liquid  diet  (not 
lower  than  1000  calories,  however)  until  any  undesirable  con- 
dition may  be  corrected.  Then  as  rapidly  as  possible  the  fluid 
diets  higher  in  fuel  value  and  then  soft  diet,  are  used,  until 
the  patient's  maximum  capacity  is  reached.  In  the  cases 
studied  and  reported,  the  various  doctors  1  have  experienced 
little  difficulty  from  the  patient  himself.  Some  have  taken 
food  amounting  to  6000  calories  a  day,  without  special 
urging. 

The  advantages  from  this  purely  dietetic  treatment  of 
typhoid,  seem  to  be  many.  The  patients  are  contented,  al- 
most free  from  delirium,  and  not  more  liable  to  relapse.  Ab- 
dominal distension,  and  diarrhea,  which  were  considered 
symptoms  of  the  disease,  have  ceased.  Body  weight  is  either 
maintained  or  any  loss  is  recovered  before  the  patient  leaves 
the  hospital.  The  long  slow  convalescence  has  apparently 
disappeared. 

From  this,  at  least  some  of  the  causes  of  death  from  ex- 
haustion, mentioned  above,  are  eliminated. 

1  Dr.  W.  Coleman,  Bellevue  Hospital,  New  York  City :  Dr.  Eugene  F.  DuBois, 
Med.  Director,  Bellevue  Hospital;  Dr.  B.  B.  Crohn,  Mt.  Sinai  Hospital,  New 
York  Citv;   Dr.  Kelly,  Dr.  LaFetra,  Dr.  Shroeder  and  others. 


342  DIET  IN  DISEASE 

MODIFIED   MILK   FLUID    DIETS   FOR   TYPHOID   FEVER 
Dr.    W.    Coleman  i 

For  the  convenience  of  those  desiring  to  use  the  high  calory 
diet,  the  following  combinations  of  foods  are  given.     They  are 

especially  useful  in  the  early  stages  of  the  disease,  or  in  the 
case  of  patients  who  are  unable  to  take  solid  food. 

For   1000  calories  a  day:  Calories 

Milk,   1000  c.c.    ( 1   quart)     700 

Cream,   50   c.c.    ( 1%   oz. )     100 

Lactose,   50  gm.    ( 1%  oz. )     200 

This   furnishes   eight   feedings,   each   containing: 

Milk,    120    c.c.     (4    oz.)     80 

Cream,  8  gm.    ( 2  dr. )    15 

Lactose,  6  gm.    ( 1%  dr. )    24 

For  1500  calories  a  day: 

Milk,    1500    c.c.     ( U/2    quarts)     1000 

Cream,   50   c.c.    ( 1%  oz. )     100 

Lactose,    100  gm.    ( 3%  oz. )     400 

This  furnishes  six  feedings,  each  containing: 

Milk,  240  c.c.    ( 8  oz. )     160 

Cream,   8   gm.    (2    dr. )     15 

Lactose,    16    gm.     (4    dr. )     64 

For  2000   calories  a  day: 

Milk,    1500  c.c.    ( iy2  quarts)     1000 

Cream,    240    c.c.     (8    oz. )     500 

Lactose,   120  gm.    (4  oz.)    500 

This  furnishes  seven  feedings,  each  containing: 

Milk,   210   c.c.    (7    oz.)     140 

Cream,   30  c.c.    ( 1    oz. )     60 

Lactose,   18  gm.    ( 4y2  dr. )    72 

For  2500  calories  a  day: 

Milk,    1500   c.c.    ( V/2  quarts)     1000 

Cream,   240   c.c.    ( 8    oz. )     500 

Lactose,  240  gm.    (8  oz. )    1000 

This  furnishes  seven  feedings,  each  containing: 

Milk,   210  c.c.    (7    oz.)     140 

Cream,    30   c.c.    (1    oz. )     60 

l  Dr.  W.  Coleman,  "  American  Journal  of  Medical  Sciences,"  Lea  &  Febiger, 
Philadelphia,    Pa.,   January,    1918. 


FEVERS  AND  INFECTIOUS  DISK ASK>        343 

Lactose,  30  gin.    (9  dr.)  «    144 

For  3000  calorics  a  day: 

Milk,    1500   c.c.    (1#   quarts)     1000 

Cream,   480   c.c.    I  1    pint  »     1000 

Lactose,    240    c.c.    (8    oz. )     1000 

This  furnishes  eight  feedings,  each  containing: 

Milk,    180    c.c.     (6    oz.)     120 

Cream,  60  c.c.    (2  oz.)    120 

Lactose,   30   gm.    ( 1    oz.)     120 

For  3900  calorics  a  day: 

Milk,    1500   c.c.    ( \y2   quarts)     1000 

Cream,   480   c.c.    ( 1    pint)     1000 

Lactose,  480  gm.    ( 16  oz.)     1900 

This  furnishes  eight  feedings,  each  containing: 

Milk,    180    c.c.     (6    oz.)     120 

Cream,  60  c.c.    ( 2  oz. )    120 

Lactose,  60  gm.    ( 2  oz. )     240 

u  When  the  above  combinations  are  employed,  it  is  generally 
desirable  to  add  eggs  to  the  diet  in  order  to  raise  the  nitrogen 
to  the  desired  amount.  The  eggs  may  be  soft-boiled  or  be 
shaken  up  in  any  of  the  above  feedings  unless  distasteful  to 
the  patient,  though  the  addition  of  an  egg  makes  the  stronger 
mixtures  very  rich.  I  have  given  some  patients  who  seemed 
unable  to  get  enough  to  eat  4  ounces  of  milk,  4  ounces  of 
cream,  2  ounces  of  milk  sugar,  and  an  egg  at  a  feeding.  Such 
patients,  however,  are  exceptional. 

"  Milk  toast,  with  the  addition  of  butter  or  cream,  is  rel- 
ished by  many  patients. 

"  The  following  menus  were  arranged  by  Miss  Mary  E. 
Sheehan,  head  nurse  in  Ward  AI  of  Bellevue  Hospital,  and 
have  been  employed,  with  such  modifications  as  individual 
patients  required,  for  the  last  two  years.  They  may  be  fol- 
lowed in  general  at  any  stage  of  the  disease  if  the  patient  is 
capable  of  taking  solid  and  semi-solid  food,  and  if  he  is  hun- 
gry, but  are  most  useful  in  the  later  stages,  and  in  convales- 
cence. The  night-feedings  are  given  when  the  patients'  tem- 
perature are  taken  in  the  course  of  the  ward  routine." 

2  If  this  and  the  following  combinations  are  too  sweet,  a  portion  of  the 
milk-sugar  may  be  given  in  some  other  form. 


344  DIET  IN  DISEASE 

A   SOFT   DIET   FOR   TYPHOID    OR   TYPHOID    CONVALESCENCE  i 

(3911   Calories) 

Calories 

7  a.  m.     Egg,   1    80 

Toast,   1  slice    80 

Butter,   20  grams    150 

Coffee    

Cream,   2   ounces    120 

Lactose,    20   grams    80 

9  a.  m.     Milk,    6   ounces    123 

Cream,   2  ounces    120 

Lactose,  10  grams    40 

11  a.m.     Egg,   1    80 

Mashed   potato,    20   grams    20 

Custard,  4  ounces    250 

Toast   ( or  bread )    1  slice   80 

Butter,   20  grams    150 

Coffee    

Cream,   2   ounces    120 

Lactose,    20   grams    80 

1  p.  m.     Same  as  9  a.  m 283 

3  p.  m.2    Same  as  9  a.  m 283 

5  p.  m.     Egg,    1    80 

Cereal,    3    tablespoons    150 

Cream,   2  ounces    120 

Apple  sauce,    1   ounce    30 

Tea    

Cream,   3  ounces    180 

Lactose,    20   grams    80 

7  p.  m.     Same  as  9  a.  m 283 

10  p.  m.     Same  as  9  a.  m 283 

1  a.  m.     Same  as  9  a.  m 283 

4  a.  m.     Same  as  9  a.  m 283 

Total  Calories  for  day   3911 

A  SOFT  DIET  FOR  TYPHOID  CONVALESCENCE  3 

(4835   Calories) 

Calories 

7  a.  m.     Egg,   1    80 

Toast,  2  slices 160 

i  Dr.  W.  Coleman,  American  Journal  of  Medical  Sciences,  Lea  and  Febiger, 
Philadelphia,   Pa.,  January,  1912. 

2  Lactose  lemonade  may  be  substituted  for  the  milk  mixture  at  three  o'clock. 
S  Dr.  W.  Coleman,  American  Journal  of  Medical  Sciences,  January,  1912. 


FEVERS  AND  INFECTIOUS  DISEASES  345 

A  SOFT  DIET  FOR  TYPHOID  CONVALESCENCE 

Dr.  F.  P.  Kinnicutt 

(4835  Calories) 

Calories 

Butter,  20  grams    150 

Coffee    

Cream,    3    ounces    180 

Lactose,   20   grams    80 

9  a.  ii.     Milk,    5    ounces    105 

Cream,   2  ounces    120 

Lactose,    15   grams    60 

11  a.  m.     Eggs,   2    160 

Toast,  2  slices    160 

Butter,   20  grams    150 

Mashed   potato,    70   grams    70 

Custard,    8    ounces    500 

1  p.  2i.     Same  as   9  a.  m 285 

3  p.  2i.     Same  as   9  a.  21 285 

5  p.  21.     Egg,    1    80 

Toast,    2    slices    160 

Butter,    20    grams     150 

Cereal,   6   tablespoonfuls    290 

Cream,  4   ounces    240 

Apple  sauce,  1  ounce   30 

Tea 

Cream,    2    ounces    120 

Lactose,  20  grams    80 

7  P.  M.     Same   as   9   a.  21 285 

10  p.  m.     Same  as   9  a.  21 :i>.~> 

1  a.  m.     Same  as  9  a.  m 285 

4  a.  m.     Same  as  9  a.  m 2S5 

Total   Calories  for  the   day    1835 

OTHER  TYPHOID  DIETS  USED  WITH  SUCCESS 
Where  it  i.s  not  necessary  to  adhere  strictly  to  the  Modified 
Milk  Diet  the  kinds  of  food  in  the  fluid  diet  may  be  varied  as 
follows : 

A  MIXED  FLUID  DIET  FOR  TYPHOID  FEVER    (NO.  1)  1 

Dr.  F.  P.  Kinnicutt 

|  1000   Calories) 

8  a.m.     Milk  and  coffee,  each  120  c.c.    (4  oz.) 
10  a.m.     Milk,  hot  or  cold,  240  c.c.    (8  oz.). 

12  noon     Oatmeal  gruel,  120  c.c.   (4  oz.),  with  milk,  CO  c.c  (2  oz.). 

2  p.  m.     Milk,  240  c.c.    (8  oz.). 

1  Dr.  F.  P.  Kinnicutt.  "  Diet  Lists  of  the  Presbyterian  Hospital,"  New  York, 


4 

p. 

M. 

6 

P. 

M. 

8 

P. 

M. 

10 

P. 

M. 

12 

P. 

M. 

2 

A 

M. 

4 

A 

M. 

346  DIET  IN  DISEASE 

Oatmeal  gruel,  120  c.c.   (4  oz.),  with  milk,  60  c.c.   (2  oz.). 
Custard  with  lactose    (full  cup). 
Hot  milk,  240  c.c.    (8  oz.). 

Whey,  180  c.c.    (6  oz.),  with  one  whole  egg  and  sherry. 
Oatmeal  gruel,  120  c.c.    (4  oz.),  milk,  60  c.c.    (2  oz.). 
Milk,  240  c.c.    (8  oz.). 

Broth,  240  c.c.    (8  oz.),  with  one  whole  egg. 
6  a.m.     Milk,  240  c.c.    (8  oz.). 

Approximate  Values 

Protein,  98  gm.    ( Zy3  oz. )  ;   fat,  52  gm.    ( 1%  oz. )  ;  carbohydrates, 
150  gm.    (5  oz.)  ;   calories,   1900. 


A  MIXED  FLUID  DIET  FOE  TYPHOID  FEVER   (NO.  2)  i 
Dr.  F.  P.  Kinnicutt 
(2300   Calories.     Lower   Protein) 
8  a.m.     Milk  and  coffee,  each   120  c.c.    (4  oz.). 
10  a.m.     Milk,   hot  or   cold,   240  c.c.    (8   oz.). 

12  noon     Oatmeal  gruel,  120  c.c.   (4  oz.),  with  milk,  60  c.c.   (2  oz.). 
2  P.  m.     Junket  with  cane-  and  milk-sugar. 

4  p.m.     Oatmeal  gruel,  120  c.c.   (4  oz.),  with  milk,  60  c.c.   (2  oz.). 
6  p.  m.     Junket  with  cane-  and  milk-sugar. 
8  p.m.     Hot  milk,  240  c.c.    (8  oz.). 
10  P.  m.     Whey,  180  c.c,  with  one  whole  egg  and  sherry. 
12  p.m.     Oatmeal  gruel,  120  c.c.   (4  oz.),  with  milk,  60  c.c.   (2  oz.). 
2  a.  m.     Junket  with  cane-  and  milk-sugar. 
4  a.m.     Milk,  240  c.c.  (8  oz.). 
6  a.  m.     Milk,  240  c.c.  (8  oz.). 
15  gm.  (Y2  oz.)  of  lactose  added  to  the  four  milk  feedings. 

Approximate  Values 

Protein,  71  gm.    {2%  oz.);   fat,  81  gm.    (2%  oz.)  ;   carbohydrates, 
160  gm.   (5y3  oz.)  ;  calories,  2300. 

These  typhoid  fluid  diets  can  be  further  augmented  by  the 
addition  of  the  following  articles : 

Lactose  or  cane-sugar,  30  gm.    (1  oz.),  120  calories. 

Pea  soup,  180  c.c.  (1  cup,  6  oz.),  192  calories  (7.5  gm.  protein). 

Bean  soup,  180  c.c.  (1  cup,  6  oz.),  242  calories  (12  gm.  protein). 

Soda  cracker   (one),  30  calories   (.5  gm.  protein). 

Cream   100  c.c.    (3y3oz.).) 

Sugar  or  lactose 60  gm.  (2     oz.) .  }-  500  calories. 

Gruel     150  c.c.    (5     oz.).J 

1  Dr.  F.  P.  Kinnicutt,  "  Diet  Lists  of  the  Presbyterian  Hospital,"  New  York. 


FEVERS  AND  INFECTIOUS  DISEASES       347 

This  adds  protein,  5  gm.    {%  oz.)  ;   fat,  20  gra.    (%  oz.)  ;   carbo- 
hydrates,  75  pm.    (2%   oz.). 

FOODS  FROM  WHICH  A  TYPHOID  MIXED  DIET  MAY  BE 
CHOSEN 

Mary  S.  Rose,  Ph.D.i 
When  the  typhoid  patient  is  not  limited  to  a  fluid  diet, 
foods  may  be  chosen  from  the  following : 

1.  Milk  in  various  forms. 

2.  Broths  —  beef,  veal,  chicken,  mutton. 

3.  Soups  —  potato,  pea,  bean,  carefully  strained  and  thick- 
ened with  flour,  milk,  cream,  and  egg  may  be  used. 

4.  Gruels  —  always  strained. 

5.  Eggs,  raw  or  soft-cooked. 

6.  Cream  and  butter. 

7.  Custards,  ice  cream  and  sherbets,  blanc  manges,  and  gel- 
atin jellies.  Milk  sugar  used  for  sweetening  will  increase 
the  fuel  value. 

8.  Toast. 

9.  Breakfast  cereals,  thoroughly  cooked  and  strained. 

10.  Eice,  baked  and  mashed  potatoes. 

11.  Apple  sauce,  orange  juice  and  grape  juice. 

TONSILITIS  AND  QUINSY 
Dr.  Thompson  2 
Dietetic  Treatment.     These  diseases  require  no  special  care 
in  the  acute  stage,  beyond  giving  food  in  such  fluid  form  as 
can  be  most  easily  swallowed.     The  pain  caused  by  this  act 
is  often  so  extreme  that  it  is  advisable  to  concentrate  all  food, 
to  lessen  the  number  of  necessary  acts  of  deglutition.     Meal 
juice,  petptonoids,  beaten  eggs  and  brandy,  may  be  added  to 
good  milk.     Plain  vanilla  ice  cream  may  be  given.     Its  cold- 
metimea  soothing  to  the  pharynx. 
Holding  cracked  ice  in  the  month  before  swallowing  will 
sometimes  annul  the  pain  momentarily,  or  in  extreme  cases 

1  Marv  Swartz  Rose,  Ph.D.,  "  Feeding  the  Familv."  The  Macmillan  Oo 
York.    1917. 

■1  W.    (iilman   Thompson,    M.D.:      "Practical   Dietetics,"    1909.      D.   Appkton 
&    Co..    New    York. 


348  DIET  IN  DISEASE 

the  pharynx  and  tonsils  may  be  sprayed  with  cocaine,  and  the 
period  of  temporary  anaethesia  may  be  utilized  for  swallowing 
considerable  nourishment.  This  is  rarely  necessary,  for  un- 
less the  patient  is  emaciated  by  previous  serious  illness,  he  is 
not  apt  to  be  in  need  of  much  food  for  a  day  or  two.  In  bad 
cases  of  suppurative  tonsilitis  the  strength  suffers  more,  and 
stimulants  may  be  given  by  the  rectum  if  deglutition  is  im- 
possible. 

After  all  forms  of  tonsilitis  there  is  apt  to  be  considerable 
anaemia,  and  the  patient  for  a  week  or  two  should  eat  abun- 
dantly of  animal  food.  Egg-nog  and  milk  punches  are  often 
needed  for  the  first  few  days  of  convalescence. 

DIPHTHERIA 
Dr.  Thompson  i 
Dietetic  Treatment.  "Alimentation  occupies  the  first 
place  in  the  general  treatment"  (Trousseau.)  Throughout 
the  active  stage  of  the  disease,  while  the  fever  lasts,  there  is 
difficulty  in  swallowing.  All  food  should  be  given  in  fluid 
form,  of  which  milk  is  best;  or  if  as  sometimes  happens,  semi- 
solid material  is  more  easily  swallowed,  the  food  may  be 
thickened  with  cream,  gelatine,  eggs  or  farinaceous  articles; 
or  beef  meal,  Malted  milk,  Mellen's  food,  or  granum,  etc.,  may 
be  added  for  this  purpose  to  other  foods.  The  diet  should 
consist  chiefly  of  nutritious  beef  or  chicken  broth  and  beef 
tea,  egg  albumin,  egg  nog,  milk  and  milk  punch.  Plain 
vanilla  ice  cream  is  nutritious,  and  if  not  too  sweet,  it  is  well 
borne,  and  is  frequently  very  acceptable  to  the  inflamed  throat. 
Simple  farinaceous  foods,  such  as  arrowroot,  thoroughly 
cooked  rice,  soft  cream  toast  and  gruels  may  be  taken.  Con- 
tinued disgust  of  food  is  a  very  bad  prognostic  sign  and  every 
effort  should  be  made  to  counteract  it  by  offering  variety. 

i  W.  Gilman  Thompson,  M.D.:  "Practical  Dietetics,"  1909.  D.  Appleton 
&  Co.,  New  York. 


FEVERS  AND  INFECTIOUS  DISEASES        349 

PNEUMONIA 
Dr.  Thompson  i 

Dietetic  Treatment.  The  indications  for  treatment  are  to 
give  a  light  diet,  which  will  not  excite  the  cough  in  swallow- 
ing, or  increase  dyspnoea  by  distention  of  the  stomach,  or 
augment  the  enfeeblement  of  the  heart  action  by  overtaxing 
the  digestive  powers.  Vomiting  should  be  especially  guarded 
against,  and  if  nausea  exists,  efforts  should  be  made  at  once 
to  control  it.  It  is  not  necessary  to  keep  the  patient  upon  a 
rigid  milk  diet,  but  if  milk  is  well  borne,  it  is  advisable  to 
give  nothing  else  while  the  acute  symptoms  last;  otherwise, 
whey,  meat  juice,  broths,  and  egg  albumin  may  be  allowed. 
Starchy  and  saccharine  food  must  be  withheld.  Cold  drinks 
are  both  acceptable  and  beneficial  to  the  patient,  and  water 
plain  or  aerated,  such  as  White  Eock  or  soda  water,  may  be 
drunk  in  considerable  quantity.  It  is  believed  by  some  au- 
thorities that  the  activity  of  the  kidneys  may  be  thus  pro- 
moted, and  that  the  poison  which  occasions  the  constitutional 
symptoms  of  the  disease  may  be  better  eliminated.  There  are 
cases,  however,  among  persons  with  robust  circulation,  in 
which  the  onset  is  very  sudden  and  violent.  The  pulse  is  full 
and  bounding,  and  the  heart  is  greatly  overworked  by  the  ef- 
fort to  propel  a  large  volume  of  imperfectly  aerated  blood. 
In  such  instances  the  addition  of  large  quantities  of  fluid  to 
the  circulation,  besides  what  is  actually  required  for  nutrition, 
may  have  the  effect  of  still  further  straining  the  heart. 

It  is  stated  that  carbonated  waters  reduce  the  viscidity  of 
the  sputum,  which  is  often  very  tenacious. 

The  diet  should  be  kept  fluid  until  defervescence  has  oc- 
curred, with  a  normal  temperature  and  commencing  disap- 
pearance of  the  exudation  —  in  fact,  it  is  well  to  prolong 
the  fluid  diet  for  three  or  four  days  after  the  temperature 
has  become  normal,  in  order  to  make  sure  that  a  relapse  of 
the  fever  is  not  likely  to  follow.  In  those  cases  in  which 
resolution  is  postponed,  and  the  patient  becomes  more  and 

i  W.  Gilman  Thompson,  M.D. :  "  Practical  Dietetics,"  1909.  D.  Appleton 
ft  Co.,   New  York. 


350  DIET  IN  DISEASE 

more  feeble  ,although  the  temperature  may  be  nearly  or  quite 
normal,  it  may  be  desirable  to  give  a  little  properly  prepared 
solid  food  somewhat  earlier,  and  scraped  beef,  with  toast,  or 
a  soft-cooked  egg  may  be  added  to  the  milk  diet. 

During  the  entire  period  of  convalescence  the  diet  must 
be  very  nourishing  and  of  easy  digestion;  milk  may  still  be 
given,  and  after  slowly  returning  to  the  regulation  three  meals 
a  day  (see  Diet  in  Convalescence  from  Typhoid  Fever),  very 
feeble  patients  do  well  to  take  milk  punch,  or  egg-nog,  or  a 
glass  of  wine  and  a  biscuit  three  or  four  times  a  day  in  the 
intervals. 

Alcohol.  In  alcoholic  subjects  who  have  been  drinking  up 
to  the  time  of  the  onset  of  the  disease  it  may  be  indispensable 
to  continue  the  use  of  alcohol  for  the  sudden  withdrawal  of  its 
stimulating  effect  on  the  organism  may  give  rise  to  rapid  col- 
lapse. In  aged  and  constitutionally  weak  persons  it  is  also 
indicated,  but  the  majority  of  patients  if  given  abundant  fresh 
air  do  better  without  it. 

The  custom  now  in  vogue  of  prescribing  other  forms  of 
cardiac  stimulants,  such  as  strychnine  and  vasodilators,  like 
nitroglycerin,  makes  the  employment  of  excessive  doses  of 
alcohol  less  imperative.  It  should  always  be  remembered  that 
it  is  undesirable  to  produce  toxic  symptoms  of  alcoholism  in 
pneumonia,  as  well  as  in  any  other  disease.  So  long  as  the 
pulse  is  slowed  and  its  force  strengthened,  the  use  of  alcohol 
may  be  regarded  as  beneficial;  but  if  delirium  is  increased, 
and  the  odor  of  whiskey  or  brandy  is  strong  in  the  breath  an 
hour  or  two  after  it  has  been  given,  it  is  an  indication  that 
the  patient  is  receiving  more  than  is  desirable,  and  the  dosage 
should  be  reduced. 

BRONCHO-PNEUMONIA 
Dr.  Thompson  1 
Dietetic  Treatment.     Broncho-pneumonia  is  always  a  very 
critical  disease,  and  the  utmost  care  is  required  in  nursing 

l  W.  Oilman  Thompson,  M.D. :  "Practical  Dietetics,"  1909.  D.  Appleton 
&  Co.,   New  York. 


FEVERS  AND  JXFECTIOUS  DISEASES       351 

and  feeding.  Stimulation  may  be  required  early  in  consider- 
able quant  i iv.  Hot  milk  and  vichy  in  the  proportion  of  one 
part  of  vichy  to  two  of  milk  for  older  children  or  half  and 
half  for  young  infants  may  have  the  effect  of  loosening  the 
mucus  and  easing  the  cough.  If  there  is  any  tendency  to 
flatulency,  aerated  waters  had  better  be  avoided.  When  the 
disease  occurs  in  children  the  diet  should  be  adapted  to  foster 
the  strength  and  tax  the  digestive  organs  as  little  as  possible. 
At  first  food  should  be  given  every  two  hours,  and  predigested 
milk  is  usually  all  that  is  required.  Later  it  may  be  alter- 
nated with  or  supplemented  by  egg  albumin,  expressed  meat 
juice,  plain  beef  or  mutton  broths,  arrowroot,  or  other  gruels. 

MUMPS 
Dr.  Thompson  1 

For  mumps  no  special  diet  is  required,  beyond  the  neces- 
sity of  giving  fluids  or  soft  food  while  the  swelling  of  the 
parotid  glands  and  fever  last.  The  suggestions  for  the  die- 
tetic treatment  of  tonsilitis  apply  to  this  disease.  Anaemia 
is  apt  to  be  extreme  during  convalescence,  and  meat  should 
therefore  be  plentifully  supplied.  Cod-liver  oil  is  very  ap- 
propriate in  protracted  convalescence. 

WHOOPING  COUGH 
Dr.  Thompson  i 

In  whooping  cough  the  paroxysms  of  coughing  are  so 
severe  as  to  give  rise  to  vomiting,  and  in  bad  cases  they  are 
excited  by  taking  food  which  does  not  have  an  opportunity 
to  become  assimilated,  and  nutrition  may  suffer  very  seriously 
in  consequence,  adding  to  the  general  exhaustion  which  ac- 
companies the  disease.  All  food  must  be  made  easily  as- 
similable. It  is  best  to  give  food  regularly  in  moderate  quan- 
tity at  each  time,  and  it  should  be  predigested  if  neces- 
sary.    Pancreatinised  milk,  kumyss,  the  prepared  amylaceous 

i  W.  Oilman  Thompson,  M.D. :  "  Practical  Dietetics,"  1900.  D.  Appleton 
&  Co.,  New  York. 


352  DIET  IN  DISEASE 

foods,  cream  toast,  eggs,  junket,  chicken  broth,  malted  farina- 
ceous foods,  custard,  milk  puddings,  gruels  thickened  with 
meat  extracts,  and  stimulants  in  the  form  of  egg  albumin  in 
sherry,  egg-nog  or  milk  punch,  are  recommended  for  patients 
who  vomit  solid  food.  The  worst  cases  require  nutrient 
enemata,  as  exhaustion  becomes  critical. 

DIET  IN  TUBERCULOSIS 

While  the  proper  diet  is  the  primary  factor  in  the  treatment 
in  tuberculosis,  the  influence  of  good  hygienic  conditions  must 
also  be  emphasized.  Plenty  of  fresh  air  is  an  essential. 
Whenever  it  is  possible  to  live  out  of  doors  this  should  be  en- 
couraged. Suitable  periods  of  rest,  and  when  possible  some 
light  exercise  should  be  prescribed.  The  main  object  in  treat- 
ment is  to  build  up  in  the  body  such  strong  defenses  against 
the  activity  of  the  tubercle  bacillus  that  its  rapid  growth  is 
arrested,  and  its  results  minimized. 

The  purpose  of  the  dietetic  treatment  is  to  supply  such 
foods  as  will  conserve  body  tissue  and  help  to  restore  what  has 
been  lost  through  disease.  Feeding  must  be  carefully  con- 
trolled since  an  overabundance  of  food  may  result  in  injury  to 
the  organs  of  digestion  and  assimilation.  For  this  reason  the 
so  called  "stuffing  method,"  or  hyperalimentation,  has  been 
largely  abandoned  in  the  treatment  of  tuberculosis.  A  mod- 
erate amount  of  food  well  digested  and  assimilated  is  con- 
ducive to  better  result  than  overfeeding.  Since  individuals 
in  normal  health  differ  as  to  their  energy  requirements  accord- 
ing to  their  weight,  age  and  activity,  so  the  diet  in  tuberculosis 
must  be  regulated  to  meet  the  individual  need.  A  man  at 
active  work  may  require  from  3000  to  4000  calories  per  day, 
but  at  complete  rest,  even  though  under  treatment  for  tuber- 
culosis his  energy  requirement  may  be  reduced  to  about  2500 
calories.  On  the  other  hand,  the  sedentary  man  of  the  same 
weight,  who  required  perhaps  2500  calories  in  normal  health 
might  need  3000  calories  if  he  should  undertake  some  light 
exercise  in  the  course  of  his  treatment  for  tuberculosis. 

If  a  patient,  is  underweight  the  fuel  value  of  the  diet  ac- 


FEVERS  AND  INFECTIOUS  DISEASES       353 

cording  to  Bardswell  and  Chapman  should  be  increased  30 
per  cent,  over  his  normal  requirement  for  his  highest  weight 
in  health,1  and  this  supply  maintained  until  he  gains  a  slight 
excess  over  his  highest  normal  weight.  At  this  point  his 
diet  may  be  reduced  by  15  per  cent,  so  long  as  it  proves 
equal  to  the  maintenance  of  the  required  weight.  For  ex- 
ample an  active  man  with  an  energy  requirement  of  3000 
calories  per  day  would  need,  if  tuberculous,  additional  fuel 
to  the  extent  of  900  calories  until  the  proper  weight  was 
attained,  and  then  a  reduction  of  450  calories  could  be  made, 
leaving  a  daily  total  of  3450  calories.  The  increase  in  fuel 
value  may  be  met  by  fats,  carbohydrates  or  protein,  though 
the  capacity  for  digesting  any  kind  of  food  must  be  taken 
into  consideration.  Fats  such  as  cream,  butter,  olive  oil, 
codliver  oil  and  bacon  are  all  valuable  sources  of  fuel,  but 
in  some  individuals  they  are  not  well  digested  nor  assimilated 
in  large  quantities,  so  a  substitution  of  some  carbohydrate  in 
the  form  of  bread  stuffs  or  vegetables  may  give  better  re- 
sults. 

Since  there  is  a  rapid  waste  of  tissue  in  tuberculosis,  the 
diet  must  contain  a  rather  high  per  cent,  of  protein.  In  the 
normal  diet  from  10  to  15  per  cent,  of  fuel  in  the  form  of  pro- 
tein is  considered  liberal,  but  it  is  advisable  in  this  disease  to 
raise  the  protein  calories  about  30  per  cent,  and  give  from  15  to 
20  per  cent,  of  the  fuel  value  of  the  diet  in  the  form  of  protein, 
in  order  to  afford  the  best  conditions  for  building  up  the  tis- 
sues and  repairing  the  waste.  With  a  total  energy  require- 
ment of  3000  calories  a  liberal  amount  of  protein  is  supplied 
by  80  to  120  grams  per  day.  With  a  30  per  cent,  increase 
this  would  be  advanced  to  between  120  and  155  grams.  Pro- 
tein in  very  large  amounts  is  inadvisable  as  it  may  be  ac- 
companied by  putrefaction,  gout  or  other  nutritive  disorders 
and  so  delay  the  process  of  repair.  Milk  and  eggs  are  best 
adapted  to  this  purpose,  and  they  appear  most  often  as  the 
basis  of  a  tuberculosis  diet,  but  other  forms  of  protein  such 
as  those  in  cereals  and  legumes  may  be  substituted  if  they 
are  found  to  be  equally  digestible. 

1  Note  Energy  Requirement  of  the  Body,  page  60. 


354  DIET  IN  DISEASE 

In  planning  a  diet  for  tuberculosis  there  must  be  the  same 
recognition  of  individual  differences  as  in  health.  The  age 
and  sex  of  the  patient,  as  well  as  the  amount  of  exercise,  must 
be  taken  into  account.  While  the  diet  in  general  should  be 
more  or  less  concentrated,  a  patient  who  is  doing  moderate 
work,  and  is  accustomed  to  considerable  bulk  can  digest  with 
ease  what  a  patient  of  sedentary  habits  would  find  quite  dif- 
ficult to  dispose  of.  The  cost  of  food  is  another  factor  in 
the  diet  for  tuberculosis  since  the  high  protein  diet  demanded 
may  prove  too  expensive  especially  if  largely  in  the  form  of 
milk,  eggs  and  meat.  Proteins  from  plant  sources,  such  as 
cereals,  legumes,  nuts  and  cheese,  may  be  used  in  so  far  as 
they  do  not  interfere  with  digestion.  Oleomargarine,  suet 
and  beef  drippings  may  replace  the  more  expensive  fats,  such 
as  butter  and  olive  oil  when  necessary  for  economy. 

The  appetite  of  the  patient  in  tuberculosis  is  usually  poor; 
hence  the  food,  though  simple  in  character,  should  be  pre- 
pared with  the  utmost  care,  and  served  attractively.  Three 
meals  a  day  stimulate  the  appetite  better  than  a  larger  num- 
ber. However,  if  the  patient  is  in  such  a  weak  state  as  to 
be  able  to  take  only  small  quantities  at  a  time,  six  small 
meals  may  be  given  at  regular  intervals.  Sometimes  three 
meals  with  a  small  amount  of  food  served  at  bed  time  will  be 
found  advisable. 

MENU  FOR  FOOD  SERVED  IN  VERY  SMALL  QUANTITIES 

8  a.  m.     Milk,  taken  slowly;  toast  and  butter  or  marmalade. 
10  a.  m.     Milk,  taken  slowly,  or  egg  nog. 
1  p.  m.     Dinner,  consisting  of  small  portions  of  broth,  meat  or  fish, 

potato  or   macaroni,   custard  dessert. 
4  P.  m.     Milk,  taken  slowly,  varied  for  flavor  by  addition  of  cream, 

coffee  or  cocoa. 
7  p.  if.     Supper,  consisting  of  small  portions  of  broth,  a  chop  or 

cold  meat,  bread  and  butter,  cooked  fruit. 
6  p.  M.     Bed  time.     Milk,  taken  slowly. 

In  this  way  2500  or  more  calories  may  be  taken  without 
overtaxing  the  digestive  system,  and  an  increase  up  to  3000 
calories  may  be  made  by  adding  more  fat  in  the  form  of 


FEVERS  AND  INFECTIOUS  DISEASES       355 


cream,  butter,  or  olive  oil  served  as  French  Dressing  on  let- 
tuce, with  the  dinner. 


SOME  INEXPENSIVE  MENUS  FOR  TUBERCULOSIS  i 


Breakfast  Cms. 

Prunes   75 

Quaker  oats,  cream  25 

Bacon 10 

Corn  muffins 20 

Bread,  butter   .... 
Coffee,  cocoa,  milk 


Dinner  Cms. 
Bouillon,  wafers  .  .  120 
Baked  halibut  ....  122 
Mashed  potatoes  .  .  160 
Stewed  tomatoes  .150 
Lemon  jelly,  cream  95 
Bread,  butter  .... 
Milk   


Supper 
Creamed  beef 
Baked  potato 
Dutch  cheese 


Cms. 
.  .  80 
.  .  80 
.  .   39 


Biscuit 43 

Baked  apples, 

cream 75 

Bread,  butter   .... 
Tea,  cocoa  


Bread  for 

Butter 

Milk 

Cream 

Cocoa 

Sugar 

Average  per  patient 
Protein 
127 
Breakfast  Gms. 

Orange  

Pettijohns 24 

Sausage   63 

Corn  bread   40 

Bread,  butter  .... 

Coffee,  cocoa 

Milk,  cream   

Bread  for 
Butter  " 
Milk  " 
Cream  " 
Cocoa  " 
Sugar     " 

Average  per  patient 
Protein 
145 


day 80  gms. 

"   32     " 

"   1430     " 

"    160     " 

"   250     " 

"   78     " 

per  day: 

Fat  Carbohydrate     Calories 

107  372  3041 

Dinner  Gms.  Supper 

Fricasseed  chicken  200  Boston  Baked 
Sliced  Tomatoes    .    98        beans,  ketchup 

Mashed  potatoes   .  126  Marmalade    .... 

Boiled  rice    37  Chocolate  cake  . 

Vanilla  ice  cream.  120  Prunes     

Bread,  butter Bread,  butter   .  . 

Milk   Tea,  cocoa,  milk 


Gms. 

82 
15 
67 
63 


120  gms. 
28 
1549 
155 

180 
60 


per  day: 
Fat 
123 


Carbohydrate     Calories 
419  3456 


l  Actually  served  at  the  Loomis  Sanatorium  —  cf.  King,  "On  the  Construc- 
tion of  an  Efficient  and  Economic  Diet  in  Tuberculosis,"  Uedical  Record.  Oct 
16,   1909. 


CHAPTEE  XV 
DIET  IN"  DISORDERS  OF  NUTRITION 

DIET  IN  DIABETES 

Diabetes  Mellitus  is  a  condition  of  the  body  in  which  carbo- 
hydrates are  not  fully  utilized  and  accumulate  in  the  blood  as 
sugar  (glucose)  until  a  certain  concentration  is  reached,  when 
the  sugar  is  excreted  in  the  urine.  Diabetes  is  believed  to  be 
due  to  a  deficiency  in  the  internal  secretion  of  the  pancreas. 

During  the  progress  of  the  disease,  the  power  to  use  carbo- 
hydrate decreases ;  there  is  likely  to  be  also  a  loss  in  the  ability 
to  use  protein  and  fat.  The  sugar  in  the  blood  may  come 
from  proteins  as  well  as  from  carbohydrate.  In  severe  cases 
proteins  and  fats  give  rise  to  acids  which  are  responsible  for 
the  complication  called  acidosis  or  ketonuria,  so  common  in 
diabetes.  Ketonuria  is  believed  to  be  a  direct  factor  in  caus- 
ing coma. 

It  is  essential  that  any  line  of  treatment  result  in  a  sugar 
free  urine.  The  acids  disappear  during  the  treatment  now 
used,  and  so  are  treated  incidentally. 

It  is  found  that  acidosis  is  very  apt  to  ensue  if  carbohydrate 
be  suddenly  withdrawn  and  fat  substituted,  consequently  it  is 
advantageous  to  use  a  preparatory  period,  which  precedes  the 
starvation  treatment  introduced  by  Dr.  Allen,  to  whom  we 
owe  much  of  the  knowledge  of  the  best  way  to  treat  diabetes 
mellitus. 

DR.  JOSLIN'S  PREPARATORY  TREATMENT 

Withdraw  fat  from  the  diet.  In  two  days  withdraw  pro- 
tein. Two  days  later,  halve  the  carbohydrate,  and  continue 
to  halve  the  remainder  each  day  until  but  10  grams  are  given. 
Begin  the  fast. 

356 


DISORDERS  OF  NUTRITION  357 

THE  FASTING  PERIOD 

Thia  treatment  is  successful  only  when  the  urine  becomes 
sugar  free.  Fast  two  to  four  days  or  longer,  until  the  desired 
result  is  obtained.  Give  water,  tea,  coffee  and  broth  freely 
during  the  fast.  They  prevent  hunger  and  are  stimulating. 
Alcohol  is  given  2  tablespoons  in  coffee  every  two  hours,  if  the 
physician  prescribes  it.  Two  tablespoons  of  whiskey  yield  105 
calories,  and  is  nutritious.     Alcohol  is  not  essential,  however. 

CARBOHYDRATE  FEEDING 

When  feeding  begins,  it  is  important  that  there  be  no 
repetition  of  the  same  vegetable  during  a  single  day. 
Monotony  in  the  diet  of  adults  must  be  avoided  if  the  best 
results  are  to  be  obtained.  Green  vegetables  containing  not 
over  5  per  cent,  carbohydrate  prevent  constipation.  If  given 
raw  or  steamed,  no  carbohydrate  is  lost  and  the  valuable  salts 
are  conserved.  If  the  patient  cannot  take  even  this  small 
amount  of  carbohydrate,  the  vegetables  may  be  made  to  lose 
much  starch  by  boiling  in  three  waters,  throwing  the  first  two 
away  after  the  vegetable  has  cooked  for  a  few  minutes,  and 
then  cook  at  least  fifteen  minutes  in  all.  These  are  "  thrice 
cooked  vegetables."  x 

A  DIABETIC  CHART 
Dr.  Elliott  P.  Joslin2 

The  intelligent  management  of  a  case  of  diabetes  mellitus 
requires  frequent  comparisons  between  the  diet,  the  urinary 
analyses  and  the  weight  of  the  patient.  These  data  are  often 
printed  or  written  down  in  four  or  five  different  places,  and 
the  labor  of  uniting  them  is  so  great  that  it  is  seldom  at- 
tempted. Any  accurate  study  of  a  case  is  thus  extremely 
difficult,  and  in  hospitals  past  records  are  almost  useless.  To 
facilitate  the  treatment  of  diabetic  patients  and  to  eliminate 
some  of  the  annoying  sources  of  error,  we  have  used  a  chart 
for  some  jears  upon  which  some  of  these  facts  were  recorded. 

1  Note  page  2*52  for  general  directions  in  cooking  "  thrice  cooked  vegetables." 

2  Dr.  Elliott  P.  Joslin.  "  The  Treatment  of  Diabetes  Mellitus."  Lea  & 
Febiger,   Pkiadelphia,   Pa.,   1916. 


358 


DIET  IN  DISEASE 


H  PI 

<  1 

o 

8  s 

S  3 

o 


s 

P 

CO 

*53      . 

Eh 

o.2* 

6 

P     P      rs 

g£-t 

£ 

c3 

mU  6  rt  • 

s 
M 

Ma 

4J 
be 

1 

.•52 

C3^ 

°  5 

fit 

coO 

E 

-4 

g 

CO 

E 

s- 
o 

a 
Q 

co 

M 

H 

»-- 

% 

W 

« 

<i 

^  '3 

J^* 

fflco 

to 

fd 

Ah 

"SiS     a  . 

^ 

X  bc^  a>  oc 

Is  5  °*j- 

r2 

a3 

fen 

«M 

O 

8OOH^X    6 

«w 

w 

9 

1 

Carbo 
hy- 
drate 
Balanc 
G. 

K 

6  n 

Vu 

CO 

< 

% 

ft 

fc 

£c 

t-H 

SM 

Eh 

0 

£3 

V* 

Eh 

h-l 

M 
H 
Pm 

Cm 

P 
CO 

8§ 

Eg 

g 

s 

3* 

CO 

1   tf 

W 
0 

o 

1 

Eh 

b£  o 

be  o 

H  O 

P 

g-s 

e£ 

o  « 

co     . 

•~  a; 

^£ 

<i>v-/ 
a  a- 

r1 

O    . 

s u 

PQ 

DISORDERS  OF  NUTRITION  359 

Our  chart  was  designed  chiefly  for  the  benefit  of  the  physician, 
in  contrast  to  the  charts  in  use  in  various  German  clinics, 
which  have  a  broader  application  and  are  of  direct  help  not 
only  to  the  physician,  but  also  to  the  nurse  and  the  patient 
as  well.  By  this  latter  arrangement  the  chart  becomes  the 
nurse's  record,  and  upon  it  the  nurse  writes  what  the  patient 
actually  eats.  We  have  attempted  to  combine  the  two  methods 
on  the  following  chart,  and  hope  that  it  will  be  found  helpful 
and  suggestive  in  the  treatment  of  diabetic  patients. 

Space  is  reserved  upon  the  chart  for  the  Doctor's  orders  and 
the  nurse's  record,  as  well  as  the  urinary  analyses.  There  is 
given,  in  addition,  a  statement  of  the  foods  commonly  allowed 
in  a  strict  diabetic  diet,  with  the  percent  of  carbohydrates  in 
other  foods  which  are  occasionally  employed. 

SUGGESTED  DIET  FOR  DIABETES  UNDER  FASTING  TREATMENT 

Observation  Diet. —  The  severity  of  diabetes  is  determined 
by  an  observation  diet  for  forty-eight  hours. 

Fast  Until  Sugar-Free. —  The  patient  is  placed  in  bed  (if 
necessary)  and  made  to  fast  until  sugar  free.  No  food  is 
given  with  the  exception  of  coffee,  tea  or  broth  and  whiskey 
if  necessary,  quantity  depending  upon  the  physician's  judg- 
ment. 

Carbohydrate  Test. —  Start  with  10  grams  of  carbohydrates 
in  green  5  per  cent,  vegetables,  increase  10  grams  daily  until 
sugar  appears  in  urine.  Vegetables  are  given  as  salads  raw  or 
steamed. 

First  Day  —  10  grams  carbohydrates.     Total  calories,  65. 

Grams  Protein  Fat  Carbohydrate 

Asparagus 200                   3.0  .2                     5.6 

Lettuce    50                     .7  .2                     1.7 

Celery     90                    1.2  .1-                      2.7 

Grams    340  4.9  .5  10.0 

Calories   20.  4.  41. 

Total  Calories    <;.-> 

Fast  Until  Sugar-Free. —  Follow  directions  as  given  above. 


360  DIET  IN  DISEASE 

Mixed  Diet.  The  diet  is  gradually  built  up  with  protein, 
fat  and  carbohydrates,  keeping  the  patient  sugar  free,  give 
tea,  coffee  or  broth;  thrice  cooked1  vegetables  and  bran  bis- 
cuit 2  to  give  the  necessary  bulk. 

Vegetables  are  used  raw,  steamed  or  thrice  cooked  (cooking 
at  least  15  minutes  and  pour  off  all  the  water) . 

First  Day  — Protein  35,  Fat  29,  Carbohydrate  10,  Total 
Calories,  450. 

Total  Grams  Protein     Fat     Carbohydrate 

Breakfast  —  Egg  1    150  22.3         15.9 

Asparagus  (canned)  100  gms.  100  1.5             .1               2.8 
Bran  Biscuits  2(6)    (15  gms. 

Bran)    15  12.3 

Coffee  1  cup 

Dinner  —  Lean  Beef  46  gms.    .     46  9.5 

Butter  5 

Lettuce  50        1100  1.3  .4  3.3 

Celery     65        J  1.9 

Cauliflower  T.   C.s   100  gms. 

Bran  Biscuits  2    

Clear  soup  1  cup   

Coffee   1   cup    

Supper  —  Eggs   2    

Butter    

Spinach  T.  C.   100  gms.    .  .  . 

Lettuce  50  gms \  5Q  A  %  2Q 

Raw  Tomato  50  gms J 

Bran  Biscuits  2    

Clear  Soup  1  cup   

Total    grams    35.0         28.9  10.0 

Calories     143  268  41 

Total  Calories 452 

The  Fast  Day.     Eegularly  one  day  a  week  the  patient  has  a 
fast  day,  taking  tea,  coffee  and  broth  only. 

1  See  page  262  for  general  directions  in  cooking  "  thrice  cooked  vegetables." 

2  Note  Dr.  F.  M.  Allen's  recipe  for  bran  biscuit,  page  253. 

3  T.  C.    (Thrice  Cooked). 


DISORDERS  OF  NUTRITION 


361 


SUGGESTED  CARBOHYDRATE  TEST  MENUS  I 

First  Dai 

Order:      10   Grams   of    Carbohydrates,    60    Calories 


Breakfast. 


Dinner. 


Supper. 


Asparagus 

Coffee 

Lettuce 

Celery 

Asparagus 

Broth 

Lettuce 

Celery 

Tea  or  Coffee 


100  grams 

236  c.c. 
25  grams 
45  grams 

100  grams 

236  c.C. 
25  grams 
45  grams 

236  c.c. 


CALORIES 

(2  heaping  tbsp.) 

16 

1 1  cup) 

(2  to  3  medium  haves  | 

5.3 

(3  pieces  21/4  in.  long) 

8.4 

(2  heaping  tbep.  1 

16 

(1  cup) 

(2  to  3  medium  leaves) 

5.3 

( 3  pieces  2*4  in.  long) 

8,4 

( 1  cup ) 

Total    60.4 


Order 


Second  Day 
20  Grams  Carbohydrates,  Calories   125 


Breakfast 


Dinner. 


ff« 


pper. 


Breakfast 


Dinner. 


Supper. 


I*.     Asparagus 

200  grams 

(4  heaping  tbsp.) 

32 

Coffee 

236  c.c. 

( 1  cup) 

Spinach 

200  grams 

(5  heaping  tbsp.) 

50 

Lettuce 

50  grams 

( 5  or  6  med.  leaves ) 

11 

Tomato 

20  grams 

•") 

Lettuce 

50  grams 

(5  or  6  med.  leaves) 

11 

Celery 
Total     

90  grams 

(5  pieces  2^  in.  long) 

16 
125 

Third  Day 

Order:     30  Grams   Carbohydrates,    193   Calories 

t.     String  beans 

80  grams 

(4  heaping  tbsp.) 

39 

Asparagus 

200  grains 

(4  heaping  tbsp.) 

31 

Tea  or  Coffee 

230  e.c. 

( 1  f-up) 

Cauliflower 

100  ^rams 

(2  heaping  tbsp.) 

38 

Spinach 

150  grains 

(%cup) 

33 

Lemon   jelly 

121  grama 

(%  cup) 

22 

Tea  or  Coffee 

e.c. 

(1  cup) 

Cucumbers 

50  ^rams 

6  Bli< 

8 

Celery 

1 25  grams 

(6  pea.  6  in.  long) 

22 

Tea  or  Coffee 

Ice. 

1 1  enp  i 

or  Broth 

Total     

193 

l  Note  Table  of  Food   V  ffding  to   Individual   Barring!     ;   ._•■    71  A 


362 


DIET  IN  DISEASE 


Fourth  Day 
Order:     40  Grams  Carbohydrates,  271.9  Calories 


Breakfast. 


Dinner. 


Supper. 


Brussels  sprouts 
Celery 
Grapefruit 
Tea  or  Coffee 
Shredded  cabbage 
Eggplant 
Carrots 
Asparagus 
Tea  or  Coffee 
Tomatoes  (raw) 
String  beans 
Rhubarb 


CALORIES 

24 
16 
20 


Total 


70  grams   ( 2  heaping  tbsp. ) 

90  grams   (5%  pes.  21/4:  in.  long) 

y4 

236  c.c.         (leup) 

100  grams   (l%cup)  30 

50  grams    ( 1  heaping  tbsp.)  27.9 

60  grams    ( %  c.  diced)  28 

200  grams   (4  heaping  tbsp.)  31 

236  c.c.         (leup) 

100  grams   ( 1  small  2  in.  dia.)  22 

100  grams   ( 2  heaping  tbsp. )  47 

100  grams   ( %  c.  cooked)  26 

271.9 


Fifth  Day 

Order:     50  Grams  Carbohydrates,  294  Calories 

Breakfast.     Orange  20 

Asparagus  200  grams   (6  med.  stalks)                 31 

Celery  100  grams   (6  pes.  214  in.  long)         18 

Tea  or  Coffee  236  c.c.        (leup) 

Dinner.          Onions,  boiled  100  grams    ( 2  heaping  tbsp. )             50 

Turnips  100  grams    (2  heaping  tbsp.)             42 

String  beans  100  grams    ( 2  heaping  tbsp. )             50 

Broth  236  c.c.         (leup) 

Supper.          Spinach  150  grams   (3  heaping  tbsp.)             38 

Carrots  100  grams   (2  heaping  tbsp.)             45 

Tea  or  Coffee  236  c.c.        (leup) 


Total 


294 


Sixth  Day 
Order:     60  Grams  Carbohydrates,  369  Calories 


Breakfast. 


Dinner. 


Grapefruit 

String  beans 

Cauliflower 

Onions 

Squash 

Beets 

Kohlrabi 


% 

200  grams  ( 4  heaping  tbsp. ) 

100  grams  ( 2  heaping  tbsp. ) 

30  grams 
100  grams 

10  grams  ( 1  tbsp.  diced) 
200  grams 


40 
100 
37.6 
15 
51 

4.5 
61.8 


DISORDERS  OF  NUTRITION 


363 


Supper. 


Peas 

Tomatoes 
Lettuce 
Celery 


50  grams 

50  grams 

25  grams 

100  grams 


CALOBIES 

27.7 
11.2 

5.5 

18 


Total    369 

SUGGESTED  MIXED  DIETS  i 

First  Day 

Order:     Protein   35,   Fat  29,   Carbohydrate   10,  Total   Calories  450. 


Breakfast. 


Dinner. 


Supper. 


Egg,  1 

Asparagus    (can) 

Butter 

Bran  biscuits 

(5  grams  bran) 
Coffee 
Lean  beef 
Butter 
Lettuce 
Celery 

Cauliflower  T.  C. 
Bran  biscuits 
Clear  soup 
Coffee 
Butter 

Spinach  T.   C. 
Lettuce 

Tomatoes     ( raw ) 
Bran  biscuits 
Clear  soup 


150  grams 

100  grams   ( 2  heaping  tbsp. ) 

5  grams 

2 


236  c.c.        (lcup) 

46  grams 

5  grams 

50  grams 

65  grams 

100  grams 

2 
236  c.c. 
236  c.c. 

5  grams 
100  grams    ( 2  heaping  tbsp. ) 
50  grams    (4  to  6  med.  leaves) 
50  grams    (  %  small  2  in.  dia. ) 
2 
230  c.c.         (lcup) 


(4  to  6  med.  leaves) 

(2  heaping  tbsp.) 

(1  cup) 
(1  cup) 


Total 


Second  Day 
Order :     548  Calories. 


75 
15 
33.4 


175 
33.4 
10.6 
12 

38 


33.4 
15.1 
10.6 
11 


450 


kfast.     Grape  fruit 

y4 

20 

Eg£, 

i 

75 

String  beans 

50  grams 

(1  heaping  tbsp.) 

25 

Asparagus 

100  grams 

(2  heaping  tbsp.) 

15 

Bran   biscuits 

2 

Coffee 

236  c.c. 

(1  cup) 

l  Note  Table  of  Food  Values  According  to  Individual  Servings,  page  71-A. 


364 


DIET  IN  DISEASE 


Dinner. 


Supper. 


Codfish    ( fresh )         60  grams 


Carrots 
Graham  bread 
Wine  jelly 
Bran  biscuits 

Spinach 

Orange 

Bran  biscuits 


150  grams 

16  grams 

113  grams 

2 

1 
200  grams 

1  small 

2 


( 1  very  small  help- 
ing) 

( 3  heaping  tbsp. ) 
(1  slice) 
(%cup) 


(4  heaping  tbsp.) 


CALORIES 

120 
67 
50 


75 
31 
40 


Total    548 


Dinner. 


Supper. 


Third  Day 


Order 


r69  Calories. 


Breakfast.     Oatmeal 


Milk 

Vgg 

Bacon 

String  beans 

Bran   biscuits 

Beefsteak 

Onions 

Carrots 

Coffee   jelly 

English  walnuts 

Bran   biscuits 

Coffee 

Grape   fruit 

Celery 

Tomatoes 


1 0  grams 

150  grams 
1 
14  grams 
50  grams 

2 
60  grams 
150  grams 
50  grains 
113    rams 
8 
2 
236  c.c. 

50  grams 
50  grams 


( 1  rounding  tbsp. 
cooked) 
( %  cup ) 

(4  small  pieces) 
( 1  heaping  tbsp. ) 


( 3  onions  size  of  egg) 
(1  heaping  tbsp.) 
( 1  average  helping) 


( 1  cup ) 

(3  pes.  2V2  in  long) 
( V2  small,  2  in.  dia. ) 


40 
100 

75 

100 

25 

150 
75 
22 
22 

100 


40 

9 

11 


Total    769 


Fourth  Day 
Order:     926  Calories. 


Breakfast.     Grape    fruit 
Oatmeal 

Milk 

Kgg 

String  beans 

Brussels  sprouts 

Cream  20% 

Bran   biscuits 


%  (small) 

10  grams   ( 1  rounding  tbsp. 
cooked ) 
150  grams    (%cup) 

1 
50  grams    ( 1  heaping  tbsp. ) 
50  grams   ( 1  heaping  tbsp. ) 
30  grams    (2  tbsp.) 
2 


40 

40 
100 
75 
25 
10 
60 


DISORDERS  OF  NUTRITION 


365 


Dinner. 


Supper. 


Hamburger  steak      f)0  grams 

Lettuce  10  grams    ( 1  medium  sized  leaf 

Cucumbers  30  grams   (4  slices) 

150  grams    ( 3  heaping  tbsp. ) 
id 


Lettuce 
Cucumbers 

Turnips 
Rhubarb  jelly 

cream 
Bran   biscuits 
Eggs 
Oysters 
Cream  20% 
Asparagus 
Celery 
Bran  biscuits 


L20  grams   (  y2  cup) 

2 

2 

6 

L 5  grams  (ltbsp.) 
100  grams  '«*-««■ 
75  grams 

2 


6 

15  grams  (ltbsp.) 

1 00  grams  ( 2  heaping  tbsp. ) 

75  grams  (4%  pes.  2%  in  long) 

9 


CALORIES 

225 

2 

5 

61 


25 

150 
50 
30 
15.4 
13 


Total 


926 


Fifth   Day 
Order:     1276  Calories. 


Breakfast. 


Dinner. 


Supper. 


Grapefruit 

Egg 

Bacon 

Bran  biscuits 

Toast 

Coffee 

Salmon 

Squash 

Tomatoes    cooked 

Watercress    and 

cottage  salad  i 
Coffee  jelly 
Bran   biscuits 
Tea  or  coffee 
Boiled  ham 
Shredde<l  cabbage 
Toast 
Butter 
Tea   or    coffee    or 

cracked  cocoa 


(8  small  slices) 


(1  cup) 

(2  heaping  tbsp.) 


1 
30  grams 

2 

1  slice 
236  c.c. 
100  grams 
100  grams 
100  grams  (2%  heaping  tbsp. ) 

lOOgrams  (2%  heaping  tbsp.) 

113  grams  ( 1  average  helping ) 

2 

236  c.c.  ( 1  cup ) 

50  grams 

00  grams  (2  rounding  tbsp.) 

30  grams  ( 2  slices ) 

14  grams  ( 1  tbsp.) 

236  cc.        (leup) 


40 

75 

200 

50 

200 
51 
23 

250 
22 


1 35 

30 
100 
100 


Total    calories    1276 

l  Made  from  5  %  tap.  cottage  cheese,  1  tbsp.  oil,  1  tbsp.  vinegar,  5  or  6  walnuts 
and  cress. 


366 


DIET  IN  DISEASE 


Sixth  Day 

Order : 

1524    Calories. 

CALORIES 

Breakfast. 

Gluten    breakfast 

food 

30  grams 

150 

Milk 

120  grams 

(%cup) 

100 

Egg 

1 

75 

String  beans 

100  grams 

( 2  heaping  tbsp. ) 

50 

Orange 

% 

20 

Bran  biscuits 

2 

Dinner. 

Corn  beef 

120  grams 

200 

Spinach 

120  grams 

(2%  heaping  tbsp.) 

33 

Potatoes 

30  grams 

(l^  medium 

potato ) 

25 

Lettuce   and   cu- 

cumber salad, 

French    dress- 

ing 

155  grams 

225 

Ice  cream 

60  grams 

135 

Bran  biscuits 

2 

Tea  or  coffee 

236  c.c. 

(lcup) 

Supper. 

Eggs,  2 

2 

150 

Stuffed    tomatoes 

120  grams 

42 

Toast 

2  sMces 

100 

Butter 

15  grams 

100 

Cheese 

22  grams 

(lYscube) 

100 

Strawberries 

50  grams 

Bran  biscuits 
atal  calories  

2 

19 

T< 

.1524 

DISORDERS  OF  NUTRITION 


367 


A  LOW  PRICED  DIETARY  FOR  A  DIABETIC  ALLOWED  50 
GRAMS   (200  CALORIES)   OF  CARBOHYDRATE  PER  DAY  I 


s: 

o 

A 

be 

'- 

.s  ° 

'3  "E 

is 

- 

is 

m 

B 

—   u 

a   o 

;    - 
H  O 

Breakfast 

Scrambled  eggs    .... 

Bacon    

Soy  bean  muffins   .  .  . 

Butter    

Cream,  thick 

Dinner 

Hamburg  Steak    .... 

Lentil  Puree   

Whole  wheat  bread   . 
Butter    

2  eggs 

8   small  pieces 

2    muffins 

2  tbsp. 

1%  tbsp. 

2  balls 
1    serving 

1    slice 

1  tbsp. 
1    serving 

1  cup 

2  slices 

1  egg  &  1  tbsp.  cream 

\y2  cups 

%  cup 

2  large  nuts 

4  tbsp. 

4.0 
1.0 
2.1 
1.0 
0.9 

4.0 

0.7 
0.5 
3.9 

2.5 
2.3 
3.4 
4.3 
0.5 
1.8 

45 

50 
2 
2 

12.5 

170 
30 

8 

1 

82 

291 

57 

25 

6 

8 

10 
5 

111 

527 

29 

3 

32 

68 
41 

19 
128 

21 

14 

4 

6 

205 

150 
200 
167 
200 
100 

817 

200 

175 

50 

100 

Cottage  Cheese  Salad 
Coffee    

Supper 

Boiled   Ham    

Deviled  egg   

Shredded  cabbage  .  .  . 

Lemon  jelly 

Brazil  nuts    

Whipped  Cream   .... 

250 

775 

200 
100 
30 
22 
100 
200 

652 

2244 

l  Mary  S.  Rose,   Ph.D.,  "  Feeding  the  Family."     The  Macmillan  Co.,  1917. 


368 


DIET  IN  DISEASE 


"FOODS    ARRANGED     IN     ORDER     OF    THEIR     CARBOHYDRATE 

CONTENT,  FROM  LOWEST  TO  HIGHEST  i 

VEGETABLES 

The  following  table  was  given  to  me  by  Dr.  F.  M.  Allen,  The  Hospital  of 
the  Rockefeller  Institute  for  Medical  Research.     New  York,  1917. 

Edible  Portion  Protein  Fat     Carbohydrate 

Per  cent.      Per  cent.      Per  cent. 


Cucumbers 

Fresh 

0.8 

0.2 

2.5 

Asparagus 

Canned 

1.5 

0.1 

2.8 

Celery- 

Fresh 

1.4 

0.1 

3.0 

Spinach 

Fresh 

2.1 

0.5 

3.1 

Asparagus 

Fresh 

1.8 

0.2 

3.3 

Lettuce 

Fresh 

1.3 

0.4 

3.3 

Brussels  Sprouts 

Canned 

1.5 

0.1 

3.4 

Rhubarb 

Fresh 

0.6 

0.7 

3.6 

Beans,  string 

Canned 

1.1 

0.1 

3.9 

Tomatoes 

Fresh 

0.8 

0.4 

3.9 

Tomatoes 

Canned 

1.2 

0.2 

4.0 

Brussels  Sprouts 

Fresh 

4.7 

1.1 

4.3 

Sauerkraut 

1.5 

0.8 

4.4 

Artichokes 

Canned 

0.8 

5.0 

Leeks 

1.2 

0.5 

5.8 

Eggplant 

Fresh 

1.2 

0.3 

5.1 

Pumpkin 

Fresh 

1.0 

0.1 

5.2 

Cucumber  pickles 

0.5 

0.5 

5.4 

Kohl-rabi 

Fresh 

2.0 

0.1 

5.5 

Cabbage 

Fresh 

2.1 

0.4 

5.8 

Cauliflower 

Fresh 

1.6 

0.8 

6.0 

Radishes 

Fresh 

1.4 

0.1 

6.6 

Turnips 

Fresh 

1.4 

0.2 

8.7 

Carrots 

Fresh 

1.1 

0.4 

9.2 

Beans,  string 

Fresh 

2.2 

0.4 

9.4 

Beets 

Fresh 

1.6 

0.1 

9.6 

Peas,  Green 

Canned 

3.6 

0.2 

9.8 

Onions 

Fresh 

1.7 

0.4 

9.9 

Squash 

Fresh 

1.6 

0.6 

10.4 

Lima  beans 

Canned 

4.0 

0.3 

14.6 

Corn,  green 

Fresh 

2.8 

1.1 

14.1 

Peas,  green 

Fresh 

4.4 

0.5 

16.1 

Parsnips 

Fresh 

1.7 

0.6 

16.1 

Artichoke 

Fresh 

2.6 

0.2 

16.7 

Potatoes 

Fresh 

2.1 

0.1 

18.0 

Lima  Beans 

Fresh 

7.1 

0.7 

22.0 

Bread 

9.5 

1.2 

52.8 

l  See  table  of  Pood  Values  According  to  Individual  Servings,  page  71-A. 


DISORDERS  OF  NUTRITION 


369 


MEATS   IN    ORDER    OF    THEIR    CARBOHYDRATE    CONTENT, 
FROM  LOWEST  TO  HIGHEST 


Edible  Portion 

Protein 

Fat 

Carbohydrate 

Per  cent. 

Per  cent 

Per  cent. 

Bacon 

10.0 

67.2 

Bacon  crisp 

10.0 

Beef  —  Sirloin,  very  lean 

20.5 

6.4 

Beef  —  Round,      " 

20.8 

5.8 

Chicken 

22.8 

1.8 

Ham,  very  lean 

20.2 

20.8 

Pork  —  Tenderloin 

19.3 

14.4 

Pork  —  Loin 

19.7 

19.0 

I^amb 

19.1 

12.4 

Veal 

21.0 
FRESH  FISH 

3.6 

Sea  Bass 

18.8 

0.5 

Blue  Fish 

19.0 

1.2 

Cod  —  fresh 

15.8 

0.4 

Flounder 

13.9 

0.6 

Halibut 

18.3 

5.2 

Salmon 

20.6 

12.8 

Shad  Roe 

20.9 

3.8 

2.6 

Shad  whole 

18.6 

9.5 

DAIRY   PRODUCTS   IN   ORDER   OF   THEIR    CARBOHYDRATE 
CONTENT,  FROM  LOWEST  TO  HIGHEST 


Edible  Portion 

Protein 

Fat 

Carbohyd 

Per  cent. 

Per  cent 

Per  cer 

Eggs— 1 

7.5 

5.3 

Eggs —  100  gms. 

14. 9 

10. -i 

Butter 

82.4 

Whole  Milk 

3.3 

4.0 

5.0 

Buttermilk 

3.0 

0.5 

4.8 

Whiting's  Milk  i 

( Sugar 

of  Milk, 

5.97 

7.36 

Cream,  Average 

2.5 

18.5 

4.5 

CHEESE 

Dutch 

37.1 

17.7 

Cheddar 

32.0 

(Tic-hire 

26.9 

3 1  .<; 

Cream 

■j.-».«» 

31.7 

1  D.   Whiting  &    Sons,    570   Ruthford   Ave.,    Boston, 


DIET  IN  DISEASE 


Edible  Portion 

American  —  pale 

American  —  red 

Limburger 

Boudon 

Swiss 

Brie 

Neufchatel 

Roquefort 


Protein 
Per  cent. 
28.8 
29.6 
23.0 
15.4 
27.6 
15.9 
18.7 
22.6 


Fat     Carbohydrate 
Per  cent.      Per  cent. 


36.2 
38.3 
29.4 
21.7 
34.9 
21.0 
27.4 
29.5 


0.4 
0.7 
1.3 
1.4 
1.5 
1.8 


FRUITS    IN    ORDER    OF     THEIR     CARBOHYDRATE     CONTENT, 
FROM  LOWEST  TO  HIGHEST 


Edible  Portion 

Grapefruit 

Watermelon 

Strawberries 

Blackberries 

Muskmelon 

Peaches 

Pineapple 

Orange 

Lemon  Juice 

Cranberries 

Raspberries 

Grapes 

Apricots 

Pears 

Apples 


Protein 

Fat 

Carbohydrate 

Per  cent. 

Per  cent 

Per  cent. 
5.0 

0.3 

0.1 

6.5 

1.0 

0.1 

6.8 

0.9 

0.2 

7.5 

0.6 

9.3 

0.7 

0.1 

9.4 

0.4 

0.3 

9.7 

0.8 

0.6 

9.7 
9.8 

0.5 

0.7 

10.1 

1.0 

12.6 

1.0 

1.3 

13.3 

1.1 

13.4 

0.6 

0.8 

14.2 

0.5 

0.5 

16.6 

FOODS   ARRANGED  APPROXIMATELY   TO   PERCENTAGE   OF 
CARBOHYDRATES  i 
Dr.  Elliott  P.  Joslin 


VEGETABLES 
Fresh  or  canned) 


5%* 
Lettuce  Tomatoes 

Cucumbers       Brussels 
Spinach  sprouts 

Asparagus        Water  cress 


10%  = 
Onions 
Squash 
Turnip 
Carrots 


15%  ± 
Green  peas 
Artichokes 
Parsnips 
Canned  lima 


20%  ± 
Potatoes 
Shell   beans 
Baked   beans 
Green    corn 


l  Dr.  Elliott  P.  Joslin,  "  The  Treatment  of  Diabetes  Mellitus,"  Lea  &  Febiger, 
Philadelphia,   Pa.      1916. 

l  See  table  of  "  Food  Values  "  according  to  "  Individual  Servings,"  page  71-A. 


DISORDERS  OF  NUTRITION 


371 


VEGETABLES 

(Fresh  or  canned) 

57c* 

10%  ±  * 

15%  ± 

20%  ± 

Rhubarb           Sea  kale 

Mushrooms 

beans 

Boiled  rice 

Endive              Okra 

Beets 

Boiled 

Marrow            Cauliflower 

Kohlrabi 

macaroni 

Sorrel               Eggplant 

Pumpkin 

Sauerkraut      Cabbage 

Beet  greens     Radishes 

Dandelion        Leeks 

Swiss  chard    String  beans 

Celery               Broccoli 

FRUITS 

Ripe  olives  contain  20  per 

Lemons 

Apples 

Plums 

cent,  fat 

Oranges 

Pears 

Bananas 

Grapefruit 

Cranberries 

Apricots 

Prunes 

Strawberries 

Blueberries 

Blackberries 

Cherries 

Gooseberries 

Currants 

Peaches 

Raspberries 

Pineapple 

Huckle- 

Watermelon 

berries 

NUTS 

Butternuts 

Brazil  nuts 

Almonds 

Peanuts 

Pignolias 

Black 

Walnuts 

walnuts 

(English) 

Hickory 

Beechnuts 

40% 

Pecans 

Pistachios 

Chestnuts 

Filberts 

Pine  nuts 

MISCELLANEOUS 

Unsweetened  and  unspiced 

*  Reckon    available   car 

Dohydratos    in 

pickle 

vegetables  of  5%  group  a< 

I  3%,  of  10% 

Clams                Oysters 

group  as  6%. 

Scallops             Liver 

Fish  roe 

30  grams  (1  oz.)  Protein, 

contain  approximately:  grams. 

Oatmeal,  dry  weight   5 

Cream,  40  per  cent 1 

Cream,  20  per  cent 1 


Carbo- 

Fat, 

hydrates, 

rams 

grams. 

Calories 

2 

20 

120 

12 

1 

120 

0 

1 

60 

372 


DIET  IN  DISEASE 


Carbo- 
30  grams    (1  oz. )  Protein,      Fat,     hydrates, 

contain  approximately:  grams,     grams,     grams.     Calories. 

Milk    1  1  1.5  20 

Brazil  nuts    5  20  2  210 

Oysters,  six   6  1  4  50 

Meat    (uncooked,   lean)     6  3  0  50 

Meat   (cooked,  lean)    8  5  0  75 

Bacon    5  15  0  155 

Egg   (one)    6  6  0  75 

Vegetables  5  and  10%  group 0.5  0  1  or  2       6  or  10 

Potato 1  0  6  25 

Bread    3  0  18  00 

Butter 0  25  0  225 

Fish,  cod,  haddock   (cooked)    6.0  0  0  20 

Broth     0.7  0  0  3 

Small  orange  or  y2  small  grapefruit  0  0  10  40 

1  gram  protein,  4  calories.  1  kilogram  =  2.2  pounds. 

1  gram  carbohydrate,  4        "  30  grams    (gm.)    or  cubic  centi- 

1  gram  fat,  9        "  meters  ( c.c. )  =  1  ounce. 

1  gram  alcohol,  7        "  A  patient  at  rest  requires  25 

6.25    grams    protein  contain     1  calories   per   kilo  body  weight 

gram  nitrogen.  per  24°,  approximately  1  calo- 
rie per  kilo  per  hour. 

Consult  the  Chemical  Composition  of  American  Food  Materials,  Bulle- 
tin No.  28,  U.  S.  Dept.  Agriculture,  Office  of  Experiment  Stations, 
send  10  cents  in  coin  to  Superintendent  of  Documents,  Washington, 
D.  C,  also  Annual  Report  of  the  Connecticut  Agricultural  Experi- 
ment Station,  New  Haven,  Conn.,  Food  Products  and  Drugs,  1913, 
Part  I,  Section  1. —  Free. 

TYPICAL  MENUS  USED  IN  DIABETES 
PATIENT  — AN  ADULT  i 
First  Day,  107  Calories 
Orders:     Orange,   1;   grapefruit,  % ;   5%  vegetables,   150  grams  — 
107  total  calories. 

Breakfast. —  Coffee,  150  grams;  broth;   orange,  % ;   asparagus,  50 
grams. 

l  Dr.  Elliott  P.  Joslin,  "  Treatment  of  Diabetes  Mellitus."     1916. 


DISORDERS  OF  NUTRITION  373 

Dinner. —  Grapefruit,  %;  broth;  tomatoes,  50  grams. 
Afternoon. —  Orange,  %. 

Supper. —  String  beans,  50  grams;  eggplant,  50  grams;  tea;  grape- 
fruit. 54. 

Sixth  Day,  299  Calories 

Orders:  109$  vegetables,  150  grams;  orange,  %;  5%  vegetables. 
200  grams;  grapefruit,  %j  meat,  00  grams;  eggs,  2  —  299.5  total 
calories. 

Breakfast. —  Grapefruit,  %;  egg,  1;  string  beans,  50  grams;  as- 
paragus, 50  grams;   coffee. 

Lunch. —  Fish,  60  grams;  carrots,  150  grams;  orange,  *£. 

Afternoon. —  Broth. 

Supper. —  Egg;  cracked  cocoa;  spinach,  100  grams;  grapefruit,  y±. 

PATIENT  —  AGE  2  YEARS,  4  MONTHS  1 

(Dr.  Joslin) 

Fiest  Day,  49  Calories 

Order:  5  per  cent,  vegetables,  100  grams,  sugar  free;  milk,  30 
grams  —  49.3  total  calories. 

Breakfast. —  Broth,  60  grams ;  string  beans,  30  grams ;  sugar  free 
mi!k,   10  grams. 

Dinner. —  Broth,  60  grams;  cabbage,  40  grams;  sugar  free  milk. 
10  grams. 

Supper. —  Broth,  60  grams;  asparagus,  30  grams;  sugar  free  milk, 
10  grams. 

Fifteenth  Day,  310  Calories 

Order:  Oatmeal,  5  grams;  5  per  cent,  vegetable,  150  grams;  20 
per  cent,  cream,  60  grams;  meat,  15  grams;  egg,  1  gram  —  310  total 
calories. 

Breakfast. —  Broth  with  cream,  15  grams;  oatmeal,  5  grams,  with 
cream,  15  grams. 

Dinner. —  Meat,  15  grams;  string  beans,  50  grams;  coffee  jelly  with 
cream,  15  grams. 

Supper. —  Egg,  1;  celery,  50  grams;  cream,  15  grams;  broth;  as- 
paragus, 50  grams. 

CARBOHYDRATE  TEST  DIET.     TOTAL  CALORIES  127 
Hill  and  Eckman  ■ 
Breakfast. — 

Asparagus  (canned).  75  jrrams  .  (1%  h.  tbsp.  chopped)  11.5 

Cabbage,  65  grams       (1  very  h.  tbsp.)  23. 

Tea  or  coffee  

1  Dr.  Elliott  P.  Joslin.  "  Treatment  of  I)uit»-t.-  Mellitus."      Diet  actually  used. 

2  "  Starvation  Treatment  of  Diabetes,"  Hill  &  Eckman.  W.  M.  Leonard. 
Boston,  Mass.,   1916. 


374  DIET  IN  DISEASE 

Dinner. — 

Onions,  cooked,  100  grams (2  h.  tbsp.)  50. 

Celery,  50  grams   (3  pieces  about  4%  in.  long)     9. 

Tea  or  coffee 

Supper. — 

Spinach,  100  grams (2  h.  tbsp.)  25. 

Celery,  50  grams   (3  pieces  4^  in.  long)  9. 

Tea  or  coffee 

Total  127.5 

Protein,   7  grams;    fat,  6  grams;    carbohydrate,   15  grams;   total 
calories,  150. 

MIXED  DIET.     TOTAL  CALORIES  379 
Hill  and  Eckman  i 
Breakfast. — 

String  beans,  100  grams (2  h.  tbsp.)  50 

Egg,  1 75- 

Coffee   

Dinner. — 

Egg,  1 75 

Turnips,  100  grams (2  h.  tbsp.)  42 

Cabbage,  100  grams (2  h.  tbsp.)  35- 

Tea    

Supper. — 

Egg,  1 75 

Turnips,  100  grams (2  h.  tbsp.)  42 

Spinach,  100  grams (2  h.  tbsp.)  35 

Tea    

Total  379 

Protein,  24  grams;   fat,  22  grams;   carbohydrate,  8  grams;   total 
calories,  379. 

MIXED  DIET.     TOTAL  CALORIES  1143 

Hill  and  Eckman  i 

Breakfast. — 

Bacon,  50  grams  (2  slices  about  6  in.  long) 

Asparagus,  100  grams  (2  h.  tbsp.  or  9  stalks  4  in. 

long  (canned) 

Spinach,  100  grams  (2  h.  tbsp.) 

Butter 

Cream 

Coffee 

i  "  Starvation   Treatment    of    Diabetes,"    Hill    &    Eckman.     W.    M.    Leonard, 
Boston,  Mass.,  1916. 


DISORDERS  OF  NUTRITION  375 

Dinner. — 

Steak,  100  grams  (1  small  serving) 

Turnips,  140  grams  (2  h.  tbsp.  -(-) 

Spinach,  100  grams  (2  h.  tbsp.) 

Cabbage,  100  grams  (2  h.  tbsp.) 

Butter 

Tea 

Cream 

Supper. — 

Spinach,  100  grams  (2  h.  tbsp.) 

String  beans  (cooked)  100  grams     (2  h.  tbsp.) 

Cauliflower  (cooked)   120  grams       (2  h.  tbsp.  -f) 

Butter 

Tea 

Cream 

Allow  during  the  day  — 
Butter,  20  grams 
Cream,  2*4  oz. 

Protein,  35  grams;  carbohydrate,  17  grams;  fat,  100  grams;   1143 
total  calories. 

CARBOHYDRATE  FREE  DIET,  500  CALORIES 

Dr.  Mosenthal  i 

CALOBIES 

Breakfast.—  Egg,  1    83 

Bacon,2  50  grams 88 

Black  coffee   

Dinner. —       Broth,  150  c.c 16 

Steak,  40  grams    77 

5%  vegetable  (thrice  cooked),  200  grams  33 

Butter,  5  grams 40 

Black  coffee    

Supper. —       Broth,  150  c.c 16 

Steak,  40  grams 77 

5%  vegetables,  200  grams 33 

Butter,  5  grams 40 

Tea  

Total    503 

1  "  The  Treatment  of  Diabetes  Mellitus,"  Dr.  H.  O.  Mosenthal.  Baltimore  Md. 

2  The  bacon  is  weighed  uncooked. 


376  DIET  IN  DISEASE 

CARBOHYDRATE  FREE  DIET,  1000  CALORIES 
Dr.  Mosenthal  i 

Breakfast.—  Eggs,  2    166 

Bacon,  50  grams   Ill 

Butter,  5  grams 40 

Black  coffee    

Dinner. —       Broth,  150  grams   16 

Steak,  100  grams 193 

5%  vegetable  ( thrice  cooked) ,  200  grams  33 

Olive  oil,  10  grams  93 

Butter,  10  grams 80 

Black  coffee    

Supper. —       Broth,  150  grams   16 

Steak,  75  grams .  145 

5%  vegetable  (thrice  cooked),  200  grams  33 

Butter,  10  grams 80 

Tea,  plain   

Total     1006 

LITHEMIA  OR  EXCESS  OF  URIC  ACID 

Treatment  for  Uric  Acid.  Exercise  in  the  open  air  — 
walk  —  plenty  of  fresh  air  by  night  as  well  as  by  day. 
Breathe  deeply.  Bathe  often ;  rub  the  body  thoroughly  after- 
ward; the  skin  should  play  an  important  part  in  elimination 
of  uric  acid. 

To  prevent  the  formation  of  an  over  supply  of  uric  acid, 
be  careful  of  diet.  The  first  thing,  do  not  eat  meat.  You 
may  eat  nuts  with  salt,  fresh  ripe  fruit;  best  of  all,  apples 
unpeeled;  all  cooked  fruits,  but  very  little  sugar  in  them; 
all  vegetables  that  grow  above  ground  (not  those  that  grow 
below  ground)  ;  greens  are  especially  good,  with  good  cider 
vinegar.  Bread  may  be  eaten  in  moderation,  graham  and 
entire  wheat  best,  good  water  crackers,  cereals  of  all  kinds; 
eggs  should  be  used  sparingly,  and  in  severe  cases  not  at  all. 
Fish  is  good,  also  shellfish.  No  pastry  or  sweet  cake;  milk 
and  cheese  may  be  used  freely,  also  buttermilk.  Drink  no 
coffee,  tea,  malt  or  alcoholic  liquors.  Drink  pure  water  and 
a  great  deal  of  it ;  sometimes  it  is  well  to  use  lithia  tablets. 

l  "  The  Treatment  of  Diabetes  Mellitus,"  Dr.  H.  O.  Mosenthal.  Baltimore,  Md. 


DISORDERS  OF  NUTRITION  377 

DIET  FOR  URIC  ACID  GRAVEL  AND  ACUTE  NEPHRITIS 
Massachusetts  General  Hospital  I 

\i. —  Wheat  cereal   with   cream  and  sugar. 
Bread  and  butter. 
11  a.m. —  Milk— 1  ylass  with  1  ounce  of  cream  and  four  crackers. 
1  p.  m. —  Rice  or  tapioca   with  cream  and  sugar. 
Toast  and  butter. 
Ice  cream  and  custard. 
4  r.  If. —  Milk  and  cream  and  crackers. 
G  p.  m. —  Cereal  and  cream. 
Toast. 

Mashed  potato. 
Apple  sauce. 
Later,  add  eggs  and  green  vegetables.     No  meat  or  meat  soup. 

DIET  IN  GOUT 
Mary  Swartz  Rose,  Ph.D. 2 

Gout  is  a  disease  of  the  overfed  rather  than  the  under- 
nourished. Luxurious  living,  with  its  constant  temptation  to 
overeat,  especially  of  protein  foods,  and  to  avoid  exercise, 
often  brings  its  penalty  in  the  form  of  acute  or  chronic  gout. 
Indulgence  in  alcoholic  beverages,  especially  as  an  accompani- 
ment to  a  sumptuous  repast,  increases  a  man's  chances  of  ac- 
quiring the  disease.  Sometimes  he  suffers  for  the  sins  of 
his  ancestors,  the  tendency  to  the  disease  being  said  to  be 
transmissible.  There  are  usually  disturbances  of  the  diges- 
tive system  —  gastric  indigestion,  intestinal  putrefaction,  and 
constipation  —  but  the  most  constant  symptom  is  an  e 
of  uric  acid  in  the  blood,  indicating  a  faulty  elimination  of 
this  substance.  Uric  acid  is  formed  in  the  body,  but  in 
health  it  is  excreted  in  the  urine,  so  that  the  amount  in  cir- 
culation in  the  blood  is  very  small.  In  gout  this  acid  ac- 
cumulates in  the  blood  and  is  eliminated  with  difficulty.  The 
following  are  to  be  avoided:  (1)  all  foods  which  disturb  di- 
ll :  (2)  all  foods  which  tend  to  induce  intestinal  putre- 
00  and  constipation;  (3)  all  excess  of  total  fuel  and  of 
protein  food;  and   (4)   all  foods  which  by  their  composition 

1  Diet  used  at  the  II  ital,  Bostor,  17. 

2  Mary    Swartz    Rose,    Ph.D..    "  Feeding    the    Familv."      The    Macmillan    Co.. 
New  York,  1917. 


378  DIET  IN  DISEASE 

tend  to  increase  the  amount  of  uric  acid  which  the  body  has 
to  get  rid  of.  Uric  acid  belongs  to  a  group  of  closely  related 
substances  called  purins.  These  are  found  in  flesh  foods  of 
all  kinds  and  in  some  vegetable  foods.  The  purins  other  than 
uric  acid  in  these  foods  are  mostly  converted  into  uric  acid 
in  the  body.  Hence,  if  elimination  is  faulty,  they  raise  the 
amount  of  uric  acid  in  the  blood,  a  condition  considered  very 
unfavorable  in  cases  of  gout,  though  the  relation  of  this  sub- 
stance to  the  disease  is  not  fully  understood.  The  taking  of 
alcoholic  beverages  also  tends  to  hinder  uric  acid  elimination, 
and  these  should  be  excluded  in  gout. 

The  treatment  is  largely  dietetic  and  the  diet  should  be 
adapted  to  the  needs  of  the  patient  by  the  physician.  Some 
information,  however,  as  to  the  purin  content  of  foods  will 
be  helpful  in  carrying  out  his  orders.  Milk,  eggs,  cheese, 
nuts,  gelatin,  fruits,  sugars,  breadstuffs  made  with  white  flour, 
cornstarch,  tapioca  farina,  rice,  potatoes  and  other  root  vege- 
tables, most  green  vegetables  (spinach  and  asparagus  ex- 
cepted), and  all  kinds  of  fat  are  practically  purin-free. 

Sweetbreads,  kidney,  liver,  sardines,  and  anchovies  are  very 
rich  in  purins  and  should  be  entirely  avoided.  Beef,  veal, 
mutton,  pork,  chicken,  turkey,  goose  and  other  kinds  of  game, 
fish  with  the  exception  of  cod  are  fairly  high  in  purin  content, 
and  should  be  sparingly  if  at  all  indulged  in.  Boiling  meat 
will  remove  some  of  the  purins ;  hence  boiled  meats  are  some- 
times allowed  where  roasted  or  broiled  ones  are  not.  Among 
vegetable  foods,  spinach,  asparagus,  peas,  and  beans  are  rich- 
est in  purins,  though  none  of  these  contains  as  much  as  meat. 
A  dietary  indicating  the  type  of  food  best  adapted  to  use  in 
gout  is  given  on  the  following  page. 


DISORDERS  OF  NUTRITION 


379 


A   DAY'S   DIETARY   SUGGESTED   FOR    CHRONIC   GOUT    (ROSE)  i 


Measure 


Weight 
Oz. 


Protein 
Calories 


Total 
Cal- 
ories 


7  a.  M.: 

Hot  water  . . 

8  a.  m.: 
Orange    .... 

Rice     

Cream,  thick 

Sugar     

Hot  milk    . . 

Bread     

Butter    

Peaches     . . . 


1  P.  M.: 
Soft-cooked  eggs   . 
Baked  potato     . .  . 

Celery    

Bread     

Butter    

Peaches      

Tea,  very  weak  and 
unsweetened    . . . 


p.  If.: 

Milk    

Bread     

Baked   apple    with 
whipped    cream 
Sugar     

Butter      


1  cup 

1  large 
%  cup 
1  tbsp. 

(scant) 
1  tbsp. 

(scant) 
1^4   cups 
4  slices 
1  tbsp. 
1%  medium 


2  eggs 
2  medium 

4  slices 
1  tbsp. 
l1/^  medium 


1*4  cups 
6  slices 

1  small  apple 
1  tbsp. 

(scant) 
1  tbsp. 


9.5 
2.0 
0.5 

0.5 

10.2 
1.3 
0.5 
5.3 


3.4 
6.0 
4.8 
2.6 
0.5 
5.3 


10.2 
3.9 

2.4 

0.5 

0.5 


38 

28 

1 

3 


54 
22 

6 

28 
1 
3 


38 
42 


100 
50 
50 

50 

200 

200 

100 

50 

800 

150 
200 

25 
200 
100 

50 


725 

200 
300 

100 

50 

100 
750 


Total  for  day 


279 


2275 


l  Mary    Swartz    Rose,    Pk.D.. 
New  York,  1917. 


"  Feeding    the    Family."      The    Macmillan    Co. 


380  DIET  IN  DISEASE 

ACUTE  RHEUMATISM 
Thompson  i 

Dietetic  Treatment.  While  the  fever  lasts  and  other  symp- 
toms are  acute,  such  as  pain  and  swelling  of  the  joints,  the 
patient  should  be  put  upon  a  fluid  diet.  The  majority  of 
cases  do  best  at  this  time  with  an  exclusive  milk  or  bread- 
and-milk  diet.  Those  patients  who  cannot  take  milk,  how- 
ever, may  be  allowed  soups  and  broths  flavored  with  vegetable 
extracts,  chicken  tea,  milk  toast,  barley  or  oatmeal  gruel, 
clam  broth. 

Thirst  is  often  a  prominent  symptom,  especially  if  there 
be  much  fever,  and  it  is  advisable  for  the  patient  to  drink 
fluid  freely  to  assist  in  washing  out  the  waste  products  from 
the  body.  Lemonade  and  slightly  acid  drinks  of  various 
kinds,  such  as  dilute  phosphoric  acid  or  the  effervescent  min- 
eral waters,  are  recommended.  Boiled  milk  and  Seltzer  or 
Vichy  may  be  drunk,  or  oatmeal  or  barley  water  flavored 
with  lemon.  Alcohol  should  be  avoided  while  the  acute  symp- 
toms last,  unless  the  complication  of  inflammation  of  the 
endocardium  or  pericardium  enfeeble  the  heart  action,  if  pro- 
longed and  anaemia  is  considerable,  alcohol  may  be  given  as 
a  tonic  two  or  three  times  a  day  in  the  form  of  a  glass  of 
claret  or  Burgundy  (one  to  two  ounces),  or  diluted  whiskey. 

During  convalescence  the  appetite  is  not  usually  vigorous, 
and  it  is  not  necessary  to  urge  the  taking  of  much  food  at 
first.  The  diet  should  be  principally  farinaceous,  but  not 
saccharine. 

Such  articles  may  be  given  as  rice  (plain  or  spiced),  arrow- 
root, oatmeal,  cornmeal,  semolina,  wheaten  grits,  panada, 
milk  toast,  simple  unsweetened  puddings,  wine  jelly,  blanc- 
mange and  malted  foods. 

The  return  to  solid  diet  should  be  gradual,  and  for  a  long 
time  the  patient  should  abstain  from  eating  meats  as  well  as 
from  pastry  and  sweets.  Fagge  states  that  no  meat  or  fish 
should  be  allowed  for  at  least  a  week  after  subsidence  of  the 

i  W.  Cilm.ni  Thompson,  M.D.:  "Practical  Dietetics."  New  York.  D. 
Appletoo   A  Co. 


DISORDERS  OF  NUTRITION  381 

fever  and  acute  symptoms,  or,  better,  for  a  fortnight,  and 
many  believe  that  beef  tea  is  harmful.  Meat  can  undoubtedly 
induce  a  relapse. 

When  convalescence  becomes  established,  eggs,  fish,  oysters, 
and  white  meat  of  broiled  or  roasted  chickens  may  be  given, 
and  one  or  two  such  vegetables  as  asparagus,  spinach,  or 
-it- wed  celery,  with  a  baked  apple  or  fresh  fruit,  but  sweets 
and  alcohol  should  long  be  withheld. 

The  patient  should  be  fed  often,  having  one  or  two  extra 
lunches  during  the  day,  for  anaemia  is  apt  to  prevail  for  some 
time,  and  abundant  nutriment  is  required. 

CHRONIC  RHEUMATISM 

DIET:  Soup.—  Beef  tea,  chicken  and  mutton  broth  in  small  quan- 
tities. 

Fish. —  Raw  oysters  or  clams,  white  fleshed  fresh  fish — broiled  or 
boiled. 

Mint. —  Sweetbreads,  chicken,  tripe,  broiled  fat  bacon  or  boiled 
ham   (all  sparingly). 

Farinaceous. —  Boston  brown  bread,  corn,  whole  wheat  bread,  corn- 
starch, rice,  milk  toast,  dry  toast,  graham  bread,  granum,  butter, 
crack 

Vegetables. —  All  except  potatoes  and  cooked  tomatoes. 

Desserts. —  Plain  puddings,  rhubarb;   junket    (all  without  sugar). 

Liquids. —  Milk,  cream,  buttermilk,  malted  milk,  alkaline  waters, 
tea,  cocoa  mo  sugar),  pure  water,  plain  or  with  lemon  or  lime  (no 
sugar | . 

AVOID. —  Red  meats,  pork,  turkey,  goose,  duck,  veal,  fried  fish, 
cooked  oysters  or  clams,  salted,  dried,  potted  or  preserved  fish  or 
meats  (except  ham  and  bacon).  Lobsters,  crabs,  salmon,  eggs,  rich 
made  dishes,  gravies,  potatoes,  tomatoes,  asparagus,  mush- 
rooms, rich  puddings,  candies,  nuts,  cheese,  coffee,  cider,  malt  liq- 
uor-, wines. 

DIET  FOR  OXALTJRIA 
Massachusetts  General  Hospital  i 

Avoid  spinach,  rhubarb,  cocoa,  chocolate,  tea.  coffee,  green  peas,  pota- 

tomatoes,   berries,   plum-,    figg, 
Reduce  the  carbohydrate  foods  in  diet  —  as  sugar,  puddings,  sweets, 

cake. 
Breakfast . —  Eggs,  toast,  milk. 

l  Diet  used  at  the  Massachusetts  General    I  ■     Mass..   1917. 


382  DIET  IN  DISEASE 

Dinner. —  Meat,  fish,  green  vegetables    (except  those  forbidden),  on- 
ions, carrots,  squash,  beets.     Custard,  ice  cream. 
Supper. —  Cold  meat,  cereal  bread,  cooked  fruit. 

DIET  IN  OBESITY 

This  is  one  of  the  most  important  features  of  dietetic 
therapy,  and  is  older  and  better  known  than  any  other,  prob- 
ably because  of  its  connection  with  conditioning  athletes  for 
all  kinds  of  contests  and  also  from  the  cosmetic  point  of 
view,  as  superfluous  flesh  generally  implies  advanced  years. 
Unlike  many  other  plans  of  diet  it  concerns  the  nominally 
healthy  rather  than  the  sick  and  invalid. 

The  old  trainer  of  athletes  knew  little  or  nothing  of  any 
scientific  regimen  for  reducing  adipose  tissue.  For  him  re- 
duction of  weight  was  merely  a  matter  of  getting  rid  of 
superfluous  water,  to  be  accomplished  by  sweating,  purgation 
and  abstinence  from  fluids.  He  rejected  certain  articles  of 
diet  as  "bad  for  the  wind/'  but  this  is  as  near  as  he  came 
to  specializing  in  diet.  Exercise,  without  profuse  perspira- 
tion, meant  nothing  to  him.  The  steady  grind  of  a  worker 
who  burns  up  so  much  excess  fat  daily,  yet  without  any  un- 
usual degree  of  perspiration,  is  something  he  took  no  ac- 
count of. 

Of  recent  years  it  has  been  learned  that  abstinence,  hot 
baths  and  purgation,  are  far  less  efficacious  in  keeping  down 
weight  than  continuous  and  vigorous  exercise  within  the  fa- 
tigue limit.  It  is  much  less  a  matter  of  starvation  and  elim- 
ination than  of  a  steady  oxidation  of  superfluous  tissue  by 
graded  and  varied  exercises  extending  throughout  the  day. 
But  while  constant  exercise  is  the  chief  essential,  it  is  also 
important  to  curb  the  appetite  for  food  and  drink,  and  to 
keep  the  excretory  organs  active.  Otherwise,  in  the  case  of 
novices  at  least,  increased  exercise  will  provoke  increased 
appetite  for  food  and  drink,  so  that  not  a  few  people  gain 
flesh  while  trying  to  lose  it. 

Doubtless  the  best  plan  for  reducing  flesh  without  suffering 
and  violence  is  to  do  a  great  amount  of  work  daily,  severe 
enough  in  character  to  oxidize  much  body  fat,  but  without 


DISORDERS  OF  NUTRITION  383 

profuse  waste  of  fluids  by  sweating,  etc.  In  regard  to  the 
meals,  these  should  be  small,  light  and  as  frequent  as  desired. 
Nothing  should  be  taken  to  provoke  thirst.  Any  food-article 
whatever  which  is  especially  rich  in  starch,  sugar  or  fat,  along 
with  alcoholics,  must  be  omitted.  Such  individuals  thrive 
best  on  toast  or  biscuit  without  butter;  lean  meats;  fish  and 
eggs;  and  vegetables  which  grow  above  ground. 

The  selection  of  food  differs  but  little  from  the  diabetic 
regimen,  but  some  carbohydrates  are  allowed,  while  the  fatty 
articles,  including  milk,  permissible  in  diabetes,  are  to  be 
avoided.  The  patient  is  not  to  be  stinted  in  quantity  pro- 
vided he  takes  the  necessary  amount  of  exercise.  He  may 
breakfast  freely  on  eggs,  meat  and  toast,  dine  on  meats  and 
salad  vegetables,  etc.  He  should  take  as  little  fluid  as  possi- 
ble with  his  meals,  but  may  quench  his  thirst  between  meals. 
By  masticating  his  food  thoroughly  he  materially  reduces  the 
demand,  and  does  away  with  eating  for  the  mere  sake  of  eat- 
ing. 

By  simple  measures  of  this  sort  an  individual  may  reduce 
his  weight  to  as  great  degree  as  desirable,  and  the  process 
will  not  be  painful,  but  the  reverse.  He  simply  oxidizes  and 
otherwise  utilizes  a  little  more  matter  than  he  takes  in,  and 
thereby  prevents  a  pathological  and  unsafe  accumulation  of 
fat 

DIET  FOR  REDUCTION  OF  OBESITY 
Massachusetts  General  Hospital  i 

MENU 

Breakfast. —  Cup  black  coffee  (with  milk  but  no  cream  or  sugar), 
raw  fruit  (1  orange,  apple,  pear,  or  i/£  grapefruit),  eggs 
(one  or  two,  boiled  or  poached),  toast  (one  or  two  small 
slices,  i.e.,  10-20  grams,  usually  without  butter). 

11.30  A.  M. —  Cup  bouillon  (250  c.c),  skimmed  milk  or  buttermilk, 
or  fruit. 

Luncheon. —  Clear  soup,  120  c.c,  moderately  lean  meat  or  fish,  100 
grams  (or  eggs),  two  varieties  green  vegetables,  50-100  grams 
each,  as  spinach,  or  lettuce,  or  cabbage  or  cauliflower,  or  on- 
ions or  lentils,  or  beets,  or  carrots,  or  string  beans,  or  celery, 
or  squash. 

l  Diet  used  at  the  Massachusetts  General  Hospital,  Boston,  Mass.,   1917. 


384  DIET  IN  DISEASE 

5  P.  M. —  Raw  oysters,  moderately  lean  meat  or  fish,  100-150  grams, 
two  varieties  green  vegetables,  50-100  grams  each  (as  in 
luncheon),  salad  (fruit  or  vegetable)  with  small  quantity  of 
French  dressing ) ,  raw  or  unsweetened  cooked  fruit,  orange, 
grapefruit,  apple,  pear,  grapes,  demi-tasse  black  coffee. 

The  above  menu  represents,  according  to  choice,  a  maxi- 
mum and  minimum  value,  as  follows : 


Minimum 
Maximum 


Protein 

Fat 

Carbohydrates  Calories 

60 

50 

70                 1000 

100 

70 

165                 1738 

DIET :  Meat  and  Fish. —  All  lean  meats  and  fish,  except  as  noted 
below,  but  without  rich  dressing  or  sauce. 

Soups. —  Thin  soups  in  moderation. 

Eggs  in  any  form  except  scrambled,  fried  and  omelette. 

Fruits. —  All  fresh  varieties  (except  bananas),  and  berries  (with- 
out cream  and  sugar)  ;  cooked,  if  with  saccharin. 

Vegetables. —  String  beans,  water  cress,  lettuce,  radish,  cucumber, 
asparagus,  green  peas,  Brussels  sprouts,  cabbage,  cauliflower,  okra, 
onions,  celery,  watermelon,  tomato,  artichoke,  spinach,  white  potato 
in  moderation,  mushrooms,  squash,  beets,  turnips,  carrots,  parsnips, 
oyster  plant. 

Miscellaneous. —  Tea,  coffee,  skimmed  milk,  lemonade  (with  sac- 
charin), ginger  ale.  Desserts  made  of  gelatin,  or  Irish  moss,  if 
with  but  little  sugar;  use  saccharin  or  sweetena  in  place  of  sugar. 

AVOID   (or  to  be  avoided  or  greatly  restricted)  : 

Starches. —  Bread,  crackers,  cereals,  macaroni,  vermicelli,  spag- 
hetti, sago,  tapioca,  corn,  cornstarch,  sweet  potatoes,  shelled  beans, 
dried  peas  or  beans  and  nuts. 

Sweets. —  Sugar,  candy,  dried  fruits,  syrups,  fruit  preserves,  honey, 
marmalade  and  sugar  sauces. 

Meats. — Pork,  bacon,  goose,  sausage,  croquettes. 

Fish. —  Shad,  fresh  salmon,  eels,  sardines,  mackerel,  bluefish,  fried 
fishes. 

Fats. —  Butter,  cream,  olive  oil,  bacon,  lard;  fat  meats  and  fishes. 

Desserts. —  Ices,  rich  puddings,  cake  and  gingerbread. 


CHAPTER  XVI 
DIET  IN  DISEASES  OF  THE  STOMACH 

ACUTE  GASTRITIS 
Einhorn  » 

During  the  first  or  second  day  of  illness  it  is  best  not  to 
give  the  patient  anything  substantial  to  eat.  Strained  barley 
or  rice  water,  or  weak  tea  may  be  taken.  On  the  third  day, 
as  soon  as  the  appetite  reappears,  the  patient  is  permitted  to 
partake  of  water  soup  (bread  and  hot  water)  oatmeal  or  bar- 
ley gruel,  rice  soup,  and  perhaps  one  soft-cooked  egg.  Later 
on  French  bread,  butter  and  oysters  may  be  added  to  the 
dietary. 

If  the  improvement  is  steadily  progressing  the  fourth  day 
begin  with  meat  once  a  day,  and  thus  slowly  return  to  the 
usual  bill  of  fare. 

CHRONIC   GASTRITIS 
Einhorn  i 

The  regulation  of  the  diet  is  of  prime  importance  in  the 
treatment.  The  dietary  to  be  selected  will  depend  on  the 
severity  of  the  symptoms. 

At  the  beginning,  therefore,  a  light  diet  will  be  called 
for.  The  patient  should  partake  of  four  meals  daily.  The 
articles  of  food  should  be  given  largely  in  liquid  arid  semi- 
liquid  forms;  that  is,  milk,  kumyss,  matzoon,  barley,  oat- 
meal, and  rice  soup  prepared  in  milk;  chicken  soup  with  an 
egg  beaten  up  in  it;  soft-cooked  eggs,  mashed  potatoes,  scraped 
meat,  raw,  or  boiled,  toasted  bread,  and  also  French  white 
bread  (not  too  fresh)  ;  butter;  tea  and  cocoa. 

1  Max  Einhorn,  M.D. :  "Disease  of  the  Stomach."  New  York.  Wil- 
liam  Wood  &   Co. 

385 


386  DIET  IN  DISEASE 

The  quantity  of  nourishment  for  each  meal  should  neither 
be  excessively  large  nor  too  small. 

My  own  bill  of  fare  for  the  first  week  of  the  treatment  is  as 
follows : 

Eight  o'clock:  Calories. 

Two  eggs    160 

Two  ounces  of  French  white  bread 156 

One-half  ounce  of  butter 107 

One  cup  of  tea    (100  gm.  of  tea,  .150  gm.  milk) 101 

Sugar  10  gm.    (3  iisa.) 40 

Half  past  ten  o'clock: 

Kumyss  or  matzoon  or  milk,  250  gm.    (3  viii.  y3) 168 

Crackers,   30  gm.    (one   ounce) 107 

Butter,  20  gm.   (3  v.) 163 

Half  past  twelve  o'clock: 

Two  ounces  of  tenderloin  steak,  or  of  white  meat  of  chicken .  76 

Mashed  potatoes,  or  thick  rice,  100  gm.    (3  iii.  y3) 127 

White  bread,  two  ounces 153 

Butter,  one-half  ounce 107 

One  cup  of  cocoa,  200  gm.    (3  vi.  % ) 101 

Half  past  three  o'clock: 

The  same  as  half  past  ten 438 

Half  past  six  o'clock: 

Farina,  hominy,  or  rice  boiled  in  milk,  one  plateful,  250  gm. 

(3  viii-  Vz) 440 

Two  scrambled  eggs 160 

Bread,   two   ounces 156 

Butter,    one-half    ounce 107 

2.863 

The  patient  having  been  kept  on  this  diet  for  a  week  or 
two,  the  diet  must  be  gradually  changed  to  one  suitable  for 
the  lighter  forms  of  chronic  gastritis.  Here  the  following 
rule  will  apply:  The  diet  should  correspond  as  nearly  as 
possible  to  the  common  mode  of  living.  In  this  way  the  dis- 
tribution of  the  meals  should  be  arranged  according  to  the 
customs  prevailing  in  those  places  in  which  the  patient  lives. 

All  food  derived  from  the  vegetable  kingdom  should  be 
given  in  large  portions,  while  the  quantity  of  meat  should  be 
somewhat  limited. 


DISEASES  OF  THE  STOMACH  387 

In  order  to  permit  the  patient  to  have  a  greater  variety 
in  his  food,  it  is  best  not  to  point  out  a  few  articles  he 
should  eat,  but  to  mention  only  those  he  should  avoid.  For- 
bid meat  with  very  tough  fibers,  meat  from  too  old  animals 
or  too  fresh  meat  (right  after  slaughtering),  meat  that  con- 
tains too  much  fat,  like  pork;  forbid  sausages,  lobster,  sal- 
mon, chicken  salad,  mayonnaise,  cucumbers,  pickles,  cabbage, 
strong  alcoholic  drinks  like  liquors. 

It  must  be  impressed  upon  the  patient  to  masticate  the 
food  thoroughly,  to  eat  slowly,  not  to  think  of  business  dur- 
ing meals,  and  to  stop  eating  before  the  sensation  of  satiety 
appears.     The  latter  advice  is  only  necessary  in  persons  who 

are  accustomed  to  high  living. 

******** 

Chronic  gastric  catarrh  is  frequently  combined  with  con- 
stipation. The  diet  can  be  arranged  as  to  facilitate  move- 
ment of  the  bowels.  All  foods  which  contain  a  large  per- 
centage of  cellulose  (undigested  matter)  increase  the  quantity 
of  feces,  thereby  effecting  a  stronger  peristalsis  of  the  larger 
bowel. 

All  kind  of  green  vegetables  (spinach,  asparagus,  green 
peas)  and  rye  bread  are  therefore  very  suitable.  Many  or- 
ganic acids  possess  the  property  of  increasing  intestinal  peri- 
stalsis. Almost  all  kinds  of  fruits  contain  a  certain  quantity 
of  these  organic  acids,  and  act  like  mild  aperients.  The  use 
of  cooked  pears,  stewed  or  baked  apples,  stewed  prunes,  is  in 
many  instances  effective.  Ewald  recommends  a  mixture  of 
two  parts  of  prunes  to  one  part  of  dried  figs.  The  taste  is 
agreeable,  and  the  cathartic  action  mild.  The  custom  of 
eating  an  orange  in  the  morning  for  its  laxative  effect  is  well 
known.  To  these  dietary  remedies  we  may  also  add  the  use 
of  a  glassful  of  either  very  cold  or  warm  water,  or  a  glass  of 
milk  in  arising,  in  the  fasting  condition. 

There  are  many  persons  in  whom  one  of  these  latter  means 
produces  a  good  movement  of  the  bowels. 


388  DIET  IN  DISEASE 

DIET  IN  GASTRIC  HYPERACIDITY 

The  dietetic  treatment  of  gastric  hyperacidity  is  very  im- 
portant because  it  virtually  is  equivalent  to  the  preventive 
diet  of  gastric  ulcer  and  to  diet  after  recovery  from  the  lat- 
ter. It  should  be  extremely  simple  and  bland,  consisting  of 
but  few  dishes  of  easily  digested  solids,  together  with  milk. 
Sweets  cannot  be  used.  Carbohydrates  are  obtained  from 
bread  and  potatoes  in  relatively  small  amounts;  while  the 
protein  content  is  relatively  high  because  this  combines  with 
the  acid  of  the  gastric  juice.  Vegetables  are  limited  to  well 
cooked  greens,  green  peas,  etc.  All  bulky  food  which  leaves 
residues  and  all  irritant  substances  are  naturally  out  of  place 
in  a  bland  diet. 

OUTLINE  OF  DIET  IN  HYPERACIDITY 
Dr.  Max  Einhorn  i 

Calorics. 

7:30  a.m.     2  Eggs    160 

Wheaten  bread   50  gme 128 

Butter 20  gms 163 

Milk    250  gms 169 

10:30  a.  m.     Zoolak  or  Milk  200  gms 135 

Crackers  or  Bread   30  gms 77 

Butter     10  gms 81 

1         P.  m.     Broiled  Meat  100  gms 210 

Mashed  Potatoes    50  gms 63 

Bread    30  gms 77 

Butter   10  gms 81 

Weak  tea  or  Vichy  Water 200  gms. 

3:30  p.  If.     The  same  as  at  10:30  A.  M 293 

6:30  p.  m.     Soup  (with  Barley  or  Vermicelli)    .  .200  gms 100 

Bread  (30  gms.)  and  Butter 10  gms 158 

Meat   (broiled  or  boiled)    100  gms 210 

Potatoes  baked   50  gms 60 

Green  vegetables   (Spinach,  green 

peas)      50  gms 80 

Coffee  (half  milk)    100  gms 34 

10        p.  If.     Oysters  and  Crackers,  or  Cold    Meal 

Sandwich ;   1  glass  Beer   260 

Total    2539 

l  Dr.  Max  Einhorn,  Professor  of  Medicine,  New  York  Post  Graduate  School 
of  Medirine.      Physician  to   Post    Graduate   and   German   Hospital,    1917. 


DISEASES  OF  THE  STOMACH  389 

FOODS  FROM  WHICH   THE   DIET   IN  GASTRIC   HYPERACIDITY 

MAY  BE  CHOSEN 

Dr.  Herbert  S.  Carter  i 

DIET:     Raw   oysters: 

Soups. —  Cream  or  puree   (except  tomato). 

Fish. —  Fresh  cod,  halibut,  bass,  boiled  with  cream  sauce  or  broiled. 

Meat. —  Beef  well  done  (without  gristle,  fat,  or  gravy),  chicken, 
turkey,  guinea  hen,  lamb    (without  fat),  once  daily. 

Vegetables. —  All  soft-boiled  green  vegetables,  except  cabbage,  cauli- 
flower, brussels  sprouts,  or  turnips.  Baked  white  potato  may  be  used 
moderately.     Rice  or  macaroni. 

Cheese. —  Any  mild  variety,  but  better  without  this  at  first. 

Desserts. —  Cream  and  egg  desserts  of  all  sorts,  e.  g.,  blancmange, 
Bavarian  cream,  floating  island,  cup  custard,  junket,  soft  rice  or 
bread  puddings.  Gelatin  desserts  made  with  little  flavoring.  Very 
little  sugar  used  in  all  desserts.  Fruit,  none,  except  when  constipa- 
tion is  a  marked  feature,  then  stewed  soft  fruits  may  be  taken  in 
good  amount,  but  must  be  cooked  with  very  little  sugar  and  are 
best  taken  with  or  after  a  meal,  never  before.  Cream  may  usually 
be  freely  used. 

Bread. —  Toast,  stale  bread,  roll.  (Fresh  butter  or  salt  butter 
freshened  by  working  it  over  in  fresh  water.) 

Drinks. —  Weak  tea,  cocoa,  water,  and  milk. 

Cereals. —  Fine-grained  varieties,  well  cooked. 

Eggs. —  In  all  forms  except  fried. 

AVOID. —  All  sour,  spiced,  or  peppery  foods,  condiments,  salt  foods, 
chow-chow,  etc.     Sweets,  fried  foods. 

Very  hot  or  very  cold  food  or  drinks. 

Rough  hard  substances,  such  as  seeds,  skins  of  fruit  or  vegetables, 
corn,  uncooked  vegetables. 

Coffee,  wines,  liquors,  beer. 

Hot  breads,  pies,  cakes,  syrups,  etc. 

TJLCER  OF  THE  STOMACH 

Dr.  Max  Einhorn  i 
The  diet  consists  of  liquids  —  milk,  milk  with  strained 
barley,  or  oatmeal,  or  rice  water;  plain  water,  weak  tea  and 
peptone  (one  teaspoon  to  a  cup  of  water).  Debove  and 
Eemond  have  suggested  the  addition  of  lactose  and  of  meat 
powder  to  the  milk,  in  order  to  make  the  diet  richer  in 
nourishment  substances. 

l  Dr.  Herbert  S.  Carter,  "  Diet  Lists  of  the  Presbyterian  Hospital,"  W.  B. 
Saunders  Co.,   Philadelphia,    P».,    1917. 

-'Max  Einhorn,  M.D.:  "Diseases  of  the  Stomach."  New  York.  William 
Wood  &  Co. 


390  DIET  IN  DISEASE 

As  a  rule,  we  employ  the  above-named  additions,  which 
fulfill  the  same  purposes,  besides  varying  the  monotonous  bill 
of  fare. 

First  week.  During  the  first  week  we  give  the  patient  half 
a  cup  (about  100-150  c.c.)  of  either,  every  hour.  Every- 
thing the  patient  takes  must  be  neither  cold  nor  very  warm, 
and  should  be  taken  slowly  (sipping,  or  with  a  spoon). 

Second  week.  During  the  second  week  we  order  the  same 
kind  of  food,  with  this  difference,  that  he  is  nourished  every 
two  hours,  and  gets  a  cupful  or  a  cupful  and  a  half  (200  to 
300  c.c.)  at  a  time. 

Occasionally  we  now  allow  the  patient  one  raw  egg  beaten 
up  in  the  milk,  once  or  twice  a  day.  In  the  beginning  of  the 
third  week  we  feed  the  patient  every  three  hours;  he  is  al- 
lowed barley,  farina,  and  rice  (well  cooked)  in  milk,  soft- 
cooked  eggs,  crackers  softened  in  milk,  in  addition  to  his 
previous  foods;  in  the  third  day  of  the  third  week  we  begin 
to  give  the  patient  meat,  first  raw,  well  scraped,  then  broiled. 

Thereafter  we  go  over  to  the  ordinary  daily  diet,  exclud- 
ing heavy  salads,  pastry,  raw  fruit  and  the  like. 

In  the  following  table  I  give  an  outline  of  diet  which  I 
ordinarily  prescribe  in  this  affection: 

OUTLINE  OF  DIET  IN  GASTRIC  ULCER 

Dr.  Max  Einhorn 

First  Three  Days 

Number  of 

Calories. 

7  A.  M.:  milk,  150  C.C.    (five  ounces)    101 

8  "        milk,  150  C.C.    (five  ounces)    101 

9  "        milk,  150  C.C.    (five  ounces)    101 

10  "        milk  and  strained  barley  water  (aa,  150  C.C.)    80 

11  "        milk,  150  C.C 101 

12  "        milk,  150  C.C 101 

1  P.  m.:  bouillon  either  alone  or  with  the  addition  of  one  to 

two  teaspoonfuls  of  a  peptone  preparation,  150 

C.C 30 

2  "        milk  101 

3  "        milk  101 

4  "        milk 101 


DISEASES  OF  THE  STOMACH  391 

Number  of 
Calories. 

5  p.  if. :  milk  with  strained  barley  or  oatmeal   80 

6,  7,  8,  9,  P.  m.  :  milk,  150  C.C 404 


1402 


Fourth  to  the  Tenth  Day 

7  a.  m. :  milk,  300  C.C.   (ten  ounces)    202 

9      "        milk,  300  C.  C.  (ten  ounces)    202 

11      u.        milk  with  barley,  rice,  or  oatmeal  water,  300  C.C.  .  .  160 
1  P.  m.  :  one  cup  of  bouillon,  200  C.C,  and  one  egg  beaten 

up  in  it 80 

3      "        milk,  300  C.C 202 

5      "        milk,  300  C.C 202 

7      "        milk  with  barley  water,  300  C.C 160 

9      "        milk,  300  C.C.  \ 202 


1410 


Eleventh  to  the  Fourteenth  Day 

7  A.  M. :   milk,  300  C.C 202 

9      "        milk,  300  C.C 202 

and  two  crackers  softened  (one  ounce)    100 

11      "        milk  with  barley  water,  300  C.C 160 

1  p.  m.  :  one   cup   of  bouillon,   200   C.C,   one   egg,   and   two 

crackers    180 

3      "        milk,  300  C.C,  and  one  egg 282 

5      "        milk,  300  C.C,    202 

and  two  crackers   100 

7      *       milk,  with  barley  water   160 

9      "        milk,  300  C.C 202 


1790 


Fourteenth  to  the  Seventeenth  Day 

7  A.  M. :   milk,  300  C.C 202 

9      "        milk,  300  C.C 202 

and  two  crackers   (one  ounce)    100 

1 1      "        milk  with  barley,  300  C.C 342 

1  P.  m.  :   scraped  meat,  50  gm 60 

two  crackers,  one  cup  of  bouillon,  200  C.C 100 

3      "        milk,  300  C.C 202 

5      "        milk,  300  C.C 202 

one  egg  ( soft  boiled )    80 

two  crackers   100 


392  DIET  IN  DISEASE 

Number  of 
Calories. 

7  p.  m.  :  milk  with  farina,  300  C.C 342 

9      "        milk,  300  C.C 202 

2134 
Seventeenth  to  Twenty-Fourth  Day 

7  a.  m.  :  two  eggs  ( soft  boiled)   160 

butter,  10  gm 81 

toasted  bread,  50  gm 130 

milk,  300  C.C 202 

10      "        milk,  300  C.C 202 

crackers,  50  gm 166 

butter,  20  gm 162 

1  P.  m. :   lamb  chops  (broiled) ,  50  C.C 60 

mashed  potatoes,  50  gm 44 

toasted  bread,  50  gm 130 

butter,  10  gm. ;  one  cup  of  bouillon,  200  C.C 81 

4      "        the  same  as  at  10  a.  m 530 

6:30      "        milk  with  farina,  300  C.C 342 

crackers,  50  gm 166 

butter,  20  gm 162 

9      "        milk,  300   C.C 202 

2820 

In  cases  of  ulcer  of  the  stomach  presenting  a  more  severe 
type  —  violent  pains,  frequent  vomiting,  inability  to  take 
food  on  account  of  the  pains  —  or  after  hsematemesis,  I 
usually  have  the  patient  abstain  from  any  food  whatever, 
given  by  the  mouth,  for  a  period  of  five  days.  The  patient 
is  then  fed  by  the  rectum.  This  is  done  in  the  following  way : 
early  each  morning  the  patient  receives  a  large  enema  of 
about  a  quart  of  lukewarm  water,  in  which  a  teaspoonful  of 
common  tablesalt  has  been  dissolved  as  a  cleansing  enema. 
About  an  hour  after  the  patient  has  emptied  the  injected 
water  the  first  nourishing  enema  is  given;  this  may  consist 
either  of  a  glassful  of  milk  (about  200  c.c),  in  which  a  raw 
egg  has  been  well  beaten  and  a  pinch  of  salt  added,  or  of  a 
cupful  of  wnter  in  which  a  tablespoon  of  a  good  peptone 
preparation  has  been  dissolved.  The  temperature  of  either 
must   he  about   100°   F.     Such  a  nourishing  enema  is  given 


DISEASES  OF  THE  STOMACH  393 

three  or  four  times  a  day.  The  quantity  of  the  feeding  enema 
is  200-250  c.c.,  and  it  is  slowly  injected  by  means  of  a  foun- 
tain syringe  and  a  soft-rubber  rectal  tube.  The  patient  may 
frequently  wash  his  mouth  with  cold  water,  and  is  allowed 
from  time  to  time  to  keep  a  small  piece  of  chopped  ice  in 
his  mouth,  and  to  swallow  the  melted  water.  The  five  days 
being  over,  the  mode  of  diet  is  the  same  as  described  above 
for  the  ordinary  form  of  ulcer. 

DIET  FOR  ACTIVE  ULCER  OF  THE  STOMACH  OR  DUODENUM 

Massachusetts  General  Hospital  i 

For  tico  days —  2  oz.  milk  with  one  powdered  cracker  (3%  in. 
square).     Given  every  two  hours. 

The  next  ten  days —  8  oz.  milk,  4  crackers,  2  to  4  oz.  sugar.  Given 
every  two  hours. 

The  newt  month  —  In  eight  feedings,  every  two  hours —  (1)  Indian 
meal  mush  with  cream  and  salt  (1  helping).  (2)  Eight 
ounces  of  milk  with  crackers  and  sugar.  (3)  Potato  Purge. 
(4)  Milk  and  whites  of  two  eggs.  (5)  Soft  Custard  (1  serv- 
ing). (6)  Chocolate  with  cream  (1  cup).  (7)  Pea  Purge. 
(8)    Milk,  crackers  and  sugar. 

The  next  four  months  —  In  six  feedings  a  day.  Add  tapioca,  boiled 
rice,  macaroni,  mashed  potatoes,  soft  toast  with  butter,  soft 
boiled  eggs,  wheat  germ,  shredded  wheat. 

THE  LENHARTZ  DIET 

The  "Lenhartz  diet"  begins  with  100  c.c.  milk  and  one 
egg  daily,  in  teaspoonful  doses,  gradually  increasing  until 
at  the  end  of  four  weeks  a  liberal  mixed  diet  is  allowed,  al- 
ways avoiding  coarse  vegetables  and  irritating  substances. 

The  gradual  increase  of  food  appears  in  the  accompanying 
Bcale. 

In  preparing  the  egi:<  they  are  beaten  very  light,  without 
gait,  a  small  amount  of  sugar  frequently  added,  to  bowl  kept 
in  a  pan  of  cracked  ice.  At  first  the  milk  is  given  with 
Bfiaved  ice.  Some  of  the  milk,  eggs,  and  sugar  are  made  into 
custard  on  the  tenth  day.  The  beef  is  scraped  and  weighed 
after  cooking;  occasionally  lime  water  has  to  be  added  to 
the  milk,  and,  if  large  curds  form,  the  milk  is  diluted  with 

l  Diet  used  at  the  Massachusetts  General  Hospital,   Boston,   Mass.,   1917. 


394  DIET  IN  DISEASE 

g  s  S      S    S    S 


4 


«  & 


>05  H*  H»  ^ 

CT-  --1  r-1  rl 


© 


""^  tsi  3  n'S  ^  (4 

*                                           a  a  §>«  a  §>«  a  a 

[jq                                                                                      bo  bc+S^*-*  bc-^e*--  &  bo 

o  o  b^  o  fcw  o  o 


£ 


g       ^  ^           w           w                w                 w           w           w 

P?  ""g  a'ooooooo 

<J°  Hooooooo 

&q  *7         ^         ^             ^             ^         ^         ^ 

M     *g  u-ooSooSo 

^.          ©  r^        ^cO              vPO              03                     *JW                     ^5              ^W              >JW 

0"°  ©<>tO*C$(NC*ci<?* 


0«  bBbo&bD&i) 

r^O  OOOOOO 

5  ffl  eot-t-t-t-t- 

HH  _              ^              ^                     ^                     ^ 

6  2  ?  7  7    8  8      8         i         i 

«   ^  1,3^1^^^        a        a 


>P       ^       ^       fj>       -"■       n^  er- 

cfr*     <-,      eo      «o      o      eo  to 

tO         ~  ,-H         rH         Oi         CJ  Cvt 


c      5 


c 


*>  &      St       *      &       &      *      Es£      *£      ££  *£  *£      *£      fcv. 

W  eBc3«08J«<aeaOe8OcCO  oBO  c8  O        c3  O        eS  O       £ 


a    ps    ps    ps    ps    ps    pi"    ps  M    «"       ps  *       ps "    ps"    ps 


DISEASES  OF  THE  STOMACH 


395 


barley  water.     Great  care  is  exercised  in  the  transition  stages 
from  liquids  to  semi-solids  and  finally  to  full  diet. 

CONVALESCENT  GASTRIC  DIET  NO.   1 
Dr.  T.  C.  Janeway  i 

Breakfast:      Boiled  milk  with  cocoa  or  coffee. 
Any  cereal,  strained,  with  cream. 
Soft  toast,  buttered. 
11  a.  m.  :         Glass  of  milk. 

Dinner:  Pur6e  of  potatoes,  peas,  or  beans  with  toast  soaked  in  it, 

or  boiled  rice,  with  milk  or  cream. 
Junket  or  custard,  or  jelly  or  tapioca  pudding. 
4  P.  m.  :  Glass  of  milk  with  beaten  egg  in  it. 

Supper:  2  soft-boiled  eggs. 

Soft  toast. 
Glass  of  milk. 
9:30  p.  it:   Glass  of  milk,  with  beaten  egg  in  it. 


Breakfast: 


11    A.M. 

Lunch: 


Dinner: 


10:30  P.M. 


CONVALESCENT  GASTRIC  DIET  NO.  2 

Dr.  T.  C.  Janeway  i 
Boiled  milk,  with  a  little  coffee  or  cocoa. 
Any  cereal,  strained,  with  cream. 
Dry  toast,  buttered. 

1  egg- 
Glass  of  malted  milk. 

2  soft-boiled  or  scrambled  eggs,  or  fresh  boiled  fish  in 
place  of  eggs. 

A  little  broiled  bacon  (eating  the  fat  and  not  the  lean) . 

Toast  and  milk. 

Puree  of  potatoes,  rice,  barley,  peas,  asparagus,  celery, 
or  beans. 

Buttered  toast. 

Rare  beefsteak  broiled,  or  lamb  chop  broiled,  roast  beef 
or  lamb. 

Roast  or  broiled  chicken  or  minced  chicken,  with  well- 
cooked  rice  or  a  well-baked  potato  with  butter. 

Junket  or  custard,  jelly  or  tapioca  pudding. 

Glass  of  milk  with  lime-water. 


l  Dr.  Theodore  C.  Janeway,  "  Diet  Lists  of  the  Presbyterian  Hospital,"  1917. 


CHAPTER  XVII 
DIET  IN  INTESTINAL  DISEASES 

DIET  IN  DYSPEPSIA 

Modern  clinical  medicine  does  not  recognize  such  a  dis- 
ease as  dyspepsia.  In  a  great  variety  of  local  and  general 
conditions  digestion  is  more  or  less  disordered.  It  may  be 
too  rapid,  too  slow,  difficult,  imperfect  for  one  or  more  of 
the  classes  of  foods,  or  abolished  outright.  Specialists  base 
diets  largely  on  the  results  of  test-meals,  so  that  the  diet  in 
a  given  case  becomes  individualized.  If  a  person  with  ordi- 
nary symptoms  of  chronic  indigestion  is  to  be  dieted,  and 
the  cause  of  the  affection  is  not  known,  the  regimen  for 
chronic  gastritis  will  answer.  But  if  in  addition  to  in- 
digestion there  is  unusual  irritability  of  the  stomach,  the 
diet  must  consist  of  most  easily  digested  articles  of  solid  food, 
and  if  necessary  of  semi-solid  or  liquid  food.  In  other  words, 
he  is  dieted  like  a  convalescent  from  some  severe  acute  dis- 
ease, or  a  child  at  weaning  time. 

DIET  IN  CONSTIPATION 

It  is  almost  as  difficult  to  prescribe  a  diet  for  constipation 
as  it  is  for  dyspepsia,  and  for  the  same  reason,  namely,  con- 
stipation is  not  in  itself  a  disease,  but  a  symptom  or  result  of 
many  diseases.  As  a  general  rule,  however,  a  certain  diet  is 
more  or  less  suitable  for  any  kind  of  constipation.  By  the 
hitter  term  we  usually  mean  a  delayed  action  of  the  bowels 
due  to  a  aatural  weakness  of  the  muscles  of  the  intestines,  or 
to  an  acquired  weakness  due  to  too  concentrated  a  form  of 
nourishment  or  to  8  sedentary  life.  In  a  certain  percentage 
of  eases  the  delayed  action  of  the  bowels  is  due  to  temporary 

396 


INTESTINAL  DISEASES  397 

spasm  of  the  intestinal  muscle  and  this  may  even  occur  in 
association  with  weakness  of  the  muscle,  as  is  seen  in  hysteri- 
cal  women.  There  is  finally  delayed  bowel  action  in  a  great 
number  and  variety  of  diseases. 

The  resources  employed  in  treating  the  diseases  which 
cause  constipation  include  many  plans  beside  diet,  yet  the 
latter  is  indispensable. 

A  mixed  diet  is  very  necessary,  for  purely  animal  food 
products,  as  meat,  fish,  eggs,  milk,  cheese,  etc.,  conduce  to 
constipation  because  absorption  of  such  foods  is  so  nearly 
complete  that  not  enough  residue  remains  in  the  intestines  to 
stimulate  peristalsis.  On  the  other  hand,  a  diet  of  vegetables, 
involving  a  large  indigestible  residue,  causes  large  fecal  mo- 
tions, but  these  are  not  promptly  expelled  unless  the  intestine 
is  healthy.  Much  extra  work  is  thrown  upon  the  intestine 
when  a  vegetarian  diet  is  used  exclusively;  and  as  a  result 
of  such  excessive  work  the  intestine  may  become  in  time  weak- 
ened. 

Constipation  from  whatever  cause  and  of  whatever  nature 
may  be,  when  sufficiently  pronounced,  sufficient  to  render  a 
healthy  man  or  woman  sick.  Digestion  becomes  impaired, 
appetite  lost.  This  fact  alone  teaches  us  that  in  dieting  a 
constipated  subject  we  often  have  to  deal  with  a  sick  in- 
dividual. Hence  the  only  course  to  pursue  is  to  cure  the  con- 
dition which  causes  the  constipation  as  soon  as  possible.  For 
mere  sluggish  action  of  the  bowels,  not  amounting  to  disease, 
many  popular  dietetic  remedies  are  employed. 

Of  household  dietetic  procedures  for  securing  daily  evacua- 
tions, the  most  common  is  the  drinking  of  cold  water  on  ris- 
ing —  one,  two  or  more  glasses.  To  this  a  little  common  salt 
may  be  added.  The  use  of  fruit  at  or  before  breakfast  often 
causes  an  evacuation  during  the  day.  This  is  true  especially 
of  apples,  pears,  oranges,  etc.  Buttermilk  is  also  largely 
used  for  this  purpose.  The  vegetable  acids  with  the  large 
amount  of  indigestible  residue  make  certain  fruits  valuable 
as  laxatives,  although  those  berries  which  contain  tannin  as 
blackberries  may  tend  to  constipate.     Dried  fruits,  such  as 


398  DIET  IN  DISEASE 

figs  and  prunes  are  especially  useful.  The  efficacy  of  sweet 
cider  seems  to  illustrate  again  the  laxative  power  of  vegetable 
acids.  Very  sweet  substances  in  large  amounts,  chiefly 
honey  and  molasses,  are  notably  laxative.  Oatmeal,  among 
the  cereal  foods,  is  noted  for  its  laxative  powers.  Oils  and 
fats  are  laxative  to  many  people.  A  word  of  caution  must 
here  be  inserted.  Many  of  these  substances  occasionally  be- 
have as  violent  purgatives,  especially  in  individuals  who  al- 
ternate between  constipation  and  diarrhea.  The  severe  diar- 
rhea set  up  at  times  by  sweet  cider,  molasses  and  other  rela- 
tively inert  substances  should  teach  us  caution  in  giving  such 
articles  to  patients. 

No  more  important  hygienic  regimen  can  be  adopted  than  the  fol- 
lowing: 1.  Eat  fruit  before  retiring  (experiment  and  find  what 
fruit  seems  to  agree).  2.  Three-quarters  of  an  hour  before  breakfast 
drink  two  glasses  of  cold  water  and  exercise  ten  minutes  in  room 
before  open  window  or  take  a  brisk  walk.  If  this  regimen  were 
followed  daily  by  children  and  grown  people  there  would  be  less 
illness. 

DIET  IN  CONSTIPATION 

Massachusetts  General  Hospital  i 
Plan  diet  in  following  manner,  eating  the  usual  quantity  of 
foods  presented  and  using  the  variety  allowed  in  list : 

Breakfast. —  Cereal  with   cream  and   sugar  —  preferably   corn  meal, 
or  rye  and  oats. 

Two  soft  boiled  or  scrambled  eggs. 

Bread  —  Preferably    black    bread    or    pumpernickel,    or 
rye  bread,  with  much  butter. 

Fruit  —  Apples  or  grapes. 
Dinner. —       Soup  —  preferably  vegetable  soup. 

Fish  or  meat,  or  both,  with  salad. 

Vegetables  —  at  least  two  kinds,  preferably  spinach,  cab- 
bage, beets,  turnips,  potatoes,  beans  or  peas  if  desired. 

Dessert  of  rice  or  bread  pudding  or  custard  —  including 
daily  a  saucer  of  prunes  or  saucer  of  tamarinds. 
Supper. —       Bread  and  Butter. 

Cocoa. 

Cold  meat  and  vegetable  salad. 

Dessert  of  stewed  fruit — apples  or  pears  or  figs.      If  neces- 
sary, include  a  saucer  of  prunes  or  plums  (preserved). 

1  Diet  used  at  the  Massachusetts  General  Hospital,  Boston,  Mass.,   1917. 


INTESTINAL  DISEASES  399 

Drink  at  least  three  pints  of  water  daily. 

Omit  all  drugs  for  constipation. 

Agar  Agar  Powder  —  tablespoonful  twice  daily. 

DIET  IN  DIARRHEA 

The  term  diarrhea,  like  dyspepsia  and  constipation,  repre- 
sents only  a  symptom  or  result  of  various  diseases.  While 
this  affection  cannot  be  cured  by  a  dietetic  plan  alone,  at- 
tention to  diet  is  very  important.  It  consists  as  much  in 
avoiding  laxative  articles  as  in  using  constipating  articles 
which  are  also  bland  and  easily  digested.  Food  nearly  all  of 
which  may  be  absorbed  naturally  antagonizes  diarrhea  from 
any  cause.  The  commonest  articles  used  in  this  class  are 
flour  porridge,  cooked  white  of  eggs,  boiled  milk,  toasted 
crackers,  zwieback,  rice,  chocolate.  Meat  should  be  of  the 
most  tender  and  digestible  nature,  as  sweetbreads,  tongue, 
tenderloin  of  beef,  etc.  Dried  beef  powder  may  be  mixed 
with  5  per  cent,  tannic  acid.  Articles  which  naturally  con- 
tain the  latter  are  useful  if  digestible.  Acorn  coffee  is  recom- 
mended by  some. 

In  a  daily  menu  compiled  by  Ewald  the  following  articles 
enter:  Soft  eggs,  milk,  toasted  bread,  zwieback,  scraped 
beef,  breast  of  chicken,  the  most  digestible  kinds  of  fish, 
soups  and  broths  (to  the  latter  may  be  added  Sanatogen  and 
other  semi-proprietary  condensed  protein  foods).  Articles 
used  in  diet  list  for  constipation  must  be  avoided. 

DYSENTERY 
Dr.  Thompson  i 

During  an  attack  of  acute  dysentery  the  patient  should  be 
kept  absolutely  quiet  in  bed,  and  should  not  be  allowed  to 
rise  for  the  movement  of  the  bowels,  making  use  of  a  bed- 
pan instead.  Throughout  the  active  stage  the  diet  must  be 
strictly  confined  to  easily  digestible  food,  and  in  most  cases  it 
is  wisest  to  give  only  predigested  fluid  articles.  Peptonised 
or  pancreatinised  milk,  or  boiled  milk,  pressed-meat  juice, 
whey,  or  raw  egg  albumin  beaten  with  sherry  and  flavored 

l  W.  Oilman  Thompson,  M.D. :  "  Practical  Dietetics."  New  York.  D. 
Appleton  &  Co. 


400  DIET  IN  DISEASE 

with  nutmeg  are  recommended.  Many  patients  do  best  upon 
a  diet  of  raw  scraped  beef  or  meat  balls. 

In  cases  of  acute  dysentery,  and  especially  in  the  amoebic 
form,  the  loss  of  strength,  anaemia,  and  emaciation  progress 
very  rapidly,  and  the  strength  must  be  supported  by  stimula- 
tion, for  which  brandy  is  preferable  to  whiskey. 

During  convalescence  the  diet  must  be  very  cautiously  in- 
creased, and  confined  to  food  which  is  promptly  and  com- 
pletely digested,  leaving  but  little  residue.  For  this  purpose 
animal  food  should  be  chiefly  eaten,  while  fish,  tender  beef- 
steak, roast  beef,  boiled  or  broiled  chicken,  eggs,  custard, 
blanc-mange,  dry  toast,  junket,  well-boiled  rice,  or  wine  jelly, 
may  be  given.  All  fruits  and  vegetables  must  be  forbidden, 
and  butter  and  cream  should  be  taken  sparingly. 

If  the  the  disease  occurs  in  infancy,  the  child,  if  possible, 
should  be  fed  at  the  breast.  Otherwise  all  milk  and  water 
given  should  be  pasteurized.  Beef  tea  and  mutton  broth 
may  be  allowed  in  moderation,  and  special  care  should  be 
observed  not  to  overfeed. 

DIET  FOR  ULCERATIVE   COLITIS  AND   DYSENTERY 

(Low  Fat  and  Low  Carbohydrate  Diet) 

Massachusetts  General  Hospital  i 

Breakfast. —  One  large  portion  lean  meat. 

Two  thick  slices  of  toast  without  butter. 
Aoon. —  Meat  or  fish. 

Two  slices  of  toast. 

One  potato  or  macaroni. 
Night. —         Meat. 

Two  slices  toast. 

Custard  or  tapioca. 
Later,  add  wheat  or  corn  cereals,  tapioca,  rice,  mild  in  moderation. 

CHRONIC  DYSENTERY 

Dr.  Thompson  2 

Chronic  dysentery  is  often  beet  treated  by  an  exclusive 
milk  diet  of  from  two  and  a  half  to  three  quarts  a  day,  with 

1  Diet  wed  at  the  Ka  General  Hospital,  Boston,  Mass.,  1017. 

IW,     Oilman    Thompson.     Ml).:      "Practical     Dietetics."      New     York.      D. 

Ai'i'l.ton    A   Co. 


INTESTINAL  DISEASES  401 

rest  in  bed  or  on  the  lounge.  In  other  cases  rare  steak  or 
roast  beef  or  chicken  and  egg  albumin  may  be  allowed,  with 
dry  toasted,  zwieback,  or  crackers.  The  milk  and  meat  diet 
may  be  advantageously  combined. 

In  Osier's  opinion,  if  there  is  much  ulceration  of  the  colon, 
meat  is  not  well  borne,  and  it  is  better  to  keep  the  patient 
upon  a  diet  which  will  give  but  little  residue,  such  as  boiled 
or  peptonised  milk.  % 

The  stools  must  be  examined  every  day  or  two  to  ascertain 
the  presence  of  undigested  fragments  of  milk  curds  or  meats, 
oil  globules,  mucus,  blood,  etc.  If  improvement  does  not 
occur,  the  patient  may  be  put  upon  a  diet  of  egg  albumin  or 
Sanatogen  with  beef  juice,  or  some  of  the  preparations  of  beef 
meal  or  peptonoids,  with  pancreatinised  milk.  Eeturn  to 
solid  diet  must  be  very  gradual,  and  may  be  conducted  on 
the  lines  directed  for  convalescence  from  typhoid  fever. 

ENTERIC  DIET 
Dr.  Vickery  i 

Whey,  7  ounces.  Barley  water,  8  ounces.  Beef  juice,  3  ounces. 
Buttermilk,  6  ounces.     Gruel,  1G  ounces.     Junket,  8  ounces. 

SPECIAL  ENTERIC  DIET 
Dr.  Cutler  2 

at  7  a. ic 


Skimmed  Milk 

8   OZ. 

Mellins'  Food 

8    " 

Skimmed  Milk 

8    " 

Eggs  and  Milk 

8    " 

Beef   juice 

3    " 

Barley  water 

3    '• 

Skimmed  Milk 

6    " 

Tea 

i    " 

Chicken  Broth 

4    «  , 

Barley  Water 

3    " 

Buttermilk 

8    " 

Skimmed  Milk 

8    " 

Beef  Tea 

8    « 

Skimmed  Milk 

8    '•' 

Albumin  Water 

8    " 

1  Dr.  Vickerv:      "  Diet  used 
1917. 

2  Elbridee  G.   Cutler,   M.D.: 
pital.  Boston." 

at  the  M 
"  Diet  1 

with 
with 
with 


"11       " 
"     1    P.M. 


7      " 

9      " 

11      " 

1    A.  M. 


Diet  used  at  the  Massachusetts  General  Hos- 


402  DIET  IN  DISEASE 


LIQUID  ENTERIC  DIET 

Dr.  Cutler 

2 

Skimmed  Milk 

8  oz. 

4 

times 

every  24  hours 

Skimmed  Milk 

6    "  with 

Tea  or  Coffee 

2 

a 

a             a 

Beef  Tea 

8    " 

1 

a 

tt             a 

Chicken  broth 

3    "with 

Barley  Water 

3    " 

1 

a 

a                    ft 

Mellins'  Food 

•g    " 

1 

a 

a                    tt 

Albumin  Water 

8    " 

1 

tt 

tt                    tt 

eef  juice 

3    "  with 

Barley  Water 

3    " 

1 

a 

it                    ft 

Buttermilk 

8    " 

1 

tt 

a                    ft 

One  soft  boiled  egg  daily  if  desired  or  raw  in  milk. 
SCHMIDT'S  INTESTINAL  TEST  DIET 

This  is  not  necessarily  a  series  of  test  meals,  such  as  are 
employed  for  diagnosis  in  diseases  of  the  stomach,  for  it  may 
be  used  as  a  steady  regimen,  the  test  of  the  efficacy  of  which 
is  shown  by  the  character  of  the  stools,  which  should  consist 
in  health  only  of  the  indigestible  residue  of  the  food.  It  is 
adapted  to  the  healthy,  as  well  as  to  those  with  intestinal  dis- 
orders. All  foods  with  considerable  amounts  of  indigestible 
residue  are  forbidden,  but  no  attempt  is  made  to  eliminate 
all  residues,  for  such  a  step  would  favor  the  occurrence  of 
constipation.  The  diet  should  be  properly  balanced  and  con- 
tain sufficient  calories  for  the  daily  requirement. 

The  diet  as  advocated  by  Schmidt  has  been  in  use  in  a 
slightly  modified  form  at  the  Massachusetts  General  Hos- 
pital. Instead  of  oatmeal  gruel,  corn  meal  mush  is  used; 
while  mashed  potatoes  are  substituted  for  potato  broth.  In 
subjects  with  intestinal  affections,  the  failure  to  digest  some 
or  more  of  the  principal  classes  of  foods,  as  shown  by  study 
of  the  feces,  leads  to  a  change  in  diet.  Many  normally  healthy 
subjects  may  benefit  by  such  a  diet,  which  may  be  rendered 
less  monotonous  by  introducing  alternate  dishes. 


INTESTINAL  DISEASES  403 

TEST  DIET  FOR  STUDYING  THE  FUNCTION  OF  THE 

ALIMENTARY  TRACT 

Massachusetts  General  Hospital  i 

Morning. —  Zwieback  50  gms. 
Milk  200  c.c. 

1   egg- 

3  tablespoonfuls  of  Indian  meal  mush  made  with  10  grms. 
butter  and  200  grms.  milk. 
11  a.  m. —  Milk  1  pint. 
A"oon. —        Hamburg  Steak,  125  grms. 

On  toast  with  20  grms.  butter. 
Mashed  potatoes  with  10  grms.  butter. 
4  p.  m. —  Milk  1  pint. 
Supper. —     Same  as  breakfast. 

Value  of  Diet,  Approximately 
Protein,  105,  Fat  125,  Carbohydrates  220,  Calories  2500. 

DIET  FOR  INTESTINAL  PUTREFACTION 

As  putrefaction  is  limited  chiefly  to  animal  proteins,  an 
antiputrefactive  diet  is  a  restricted  vegetarian  diet  in  which 
milk,  cheese  and  eggs  are  allowed  in  small  quantities,  but 
no  meats.  The  patient  lives  principally  upon  bread,  potatoes, 
cereals,  fruits,  and  green  vegetables.  Such  a  diet  agrees 
closely  with  those  in  use  for  Bright's  disease,  high  blood 
pressure,  the  self  poisoning  of  pregnancy,  and  in  fact,  in  any 
condition  supposed  to  be  caused  or  aggravated  by  excess  of 
animal  protein. 

DIET  FOR  INTESTINAL  PUTREFACTION 
Dr.  Max  Einhorn  2 
Breakfast. —  Fruit:  Apple,  banana,  pear,  grapefruit,  orange. 

Cereal:  Oatmeal,  farina,  shredded  wheat:   with  milk  or 
cream. 

Bread  and  Butter. 

Tea. 
Dinner. —       Soup:  Vegetable  soup. 

Eggs:   (2)   Soft  boiled,  coddled  or  scrambled. 

Potatoes,  Rice  or  Spaghetti. 

Green  Vegetables:  String  beans,  cauliflower. 

Baked  Apple. 

Coffee  with  milk. 

1  Diet  used  at  the  Massachusetts  General  Hospital,  Boston,  Mass.,  1917. 

2  Dr.  Max  Einhorn,  Professor  of  Medicine,  New  York  Post  Graduate  School 
of  Medicine.     Physician  to  Post  Graduate  and  German  Hospital,   1917. 


404  DIET  IN  DISEASE 

Supper. —  Cereal:   Oatmeal,   farina,   shredded   wheat:    with   milk   or 
cream  or  butter. 
Cheese. 
Stewed  Fruit. 
Bread  and  Butter,  Eice  and  Milk. 

APPENDICITIS 
Dr.  Thompson  i 

Dietetic  Treatment.  The  dietetic  treatment  of  appendici- 
tis, which  has  not  yet  passed  into  the  surgeon's  hands,  should 
consist  in  giving  only  such  foods  as  will  be  thoroughly  ab- 
sorbed, leaving  as  little  residue  as  possible  to  irritate  the  lower 
bowel  and  excite  peristalsis. 

Until  the  outcome  of  the  attack  is  decided  it  is  best  to  put 
the  patient  upon  a  fluid  diet,  consisting  chiefly  of  nutritive 
broths.  Beaten  eggs  may  be  allowed,  and  a  moderate  quan- 
tity of  pancreatinised  milk,  whey,  or  buttermilk.  Cocoa  may 
be  given,  and  strained  gruels  of  rice  and  barley. 

In  recurrent  cases  the  patient  should  be  cautioned  to  eat 
moderately  and  avoid  all  coarse  or  hard  food,  such  as  grits, 
coarse  oatmeal,  tough  meats,  fibrous  vegetables,  the  skin  of 
fruits  or  potatoes  —  in  short,  everything  likely  to  overload 
the  intestine  with  accumulated  waste. 

The  operative  cases  should  have  the  diet  recommended 
after  laparotomy.  Usually  the  digestive  organs  require  al- 
most absolute  rest  for  twenty- four  hours  after  the  operation, 
and  hot  water  may  be  sipped.  No  food  at  all  should  be  given 
for  fully  six  hours  before  operation. 

i  W.  Oilman  Thompson,  M.D. :  "Practical  Dietetics."  New  York.  D. 
Appleton  &  Co. 


CHAPTER  XVIII 
DIET  IN  DISEASES  OF  THE  GENITO-URINARY  SYSTEM 

ACUTE  BRIGHT'S  DISEASE 

In  dieting  a  patient  suffering  from  acute  Bright's  disease, 
one  fact  to  be  kept  prominently  in  mind  is  the  difficulty  that 
the  system  has  in  getting  rid  of  its  waste  material  —  espe- 
cially of  its  nitrogenous  waste.  Another  point  is  that  the 
diet  should  be  such  as  to  assist  in  carrying  off  those  inflam- 
matory products  by  which  we  know  that  the  tubules  of  the 
kidneys  are  to  a  greater  or  less  extent  blocked.  The  amount 
of  nitrogenous  elements  in  foods  must  be  kept  down,  and  aid 
must  be  given  for  washing  out  the  products  of  inflammation 
from  the  uriniferous  tubules. 

Water  is  the  best  diuretic. —  Hot  water  and  hot  diluent 
drinks. 

Diluted  milk  is  the  food  that  answers  best,  and  skimmed 
milk  has  a  high  reputation  as  a  diuretic.  Buttermilk,  whey 
and  kumyss  are  useful. 

From  two  to  three  pints  of  milk,  well  diluted,  given  in  the 
twenty-four  hours,  will  in  most  cases  be  sufficient  at  first, 
but  if  the  disease  be  protracted  and  tends  to  become  chronic, 
a  more  liberal  allowance  of  liquid  food  must  be  ordered,  and 
broths  may  be  added  to  the  dietary.  When  milk  alone  is 
given  it  should  be  given  in  divided  quantities  at  stated  in- 
tervals —  half  a  pint  every  three  or  four  hours,  diluted  with 
half  as  much  hot  water  or  effervescing  water. 

Between  supplies  of  milk  drink  freely  of  diluent  drinks. 

Diluent  Drinks.  Plain  water,  toast  water,  barley  water, 
cream  of  tartar  and  lemon  drinks,  and  the  acid  drinks  are  all 
useful  diluents. 

Give  between  meals  and  drink  slowly. 

405 


406  DIET  IN  DISEASE 

CHRONIC  BRIGHT'S  DISEASE 

The  kidneys  are  great  agents  in  the  work  of  excreting  ni- 
trogenous waste,  and  if  these  organs  become  clogged  with  ac- 
cumulation of  nitrogenous  waste  products  they  are  not  able 
to  perform  their  functions. 

As  soon  as  we  have  evidence  sufficient  to  prove  that  the 
kidneys  are  laboring  and  are  burdened  by  their  work,  we  must 
endeavor  to  remove  the  strain  by  regulating  the  diet ;  and  one 
clear  indication  is  to  limit  the  supplies  of  nitrogenous  foods. 

Large  amounts  of  animal  food  and  the  use  of  alcohol  must 
be  stopped. 

In  many  cases  the  effect  of  feeding  the  patient  for  six 
weeks,  or  even  two  or  three  months,  upon  an  exclusive  milk 
diet,  is  remarkably  gratifying.  The  quantity  of  milk  to  be 
prescribed  for  an  exclusive  milk  diet  in  Bright' s  disease  must 
depend  on  the  age  and  size  of  the  patient,  as  well  as  upon 
his  ability  to  take  exercise  and  use  up  force  in  muscular  en- 
ergy. If  the  patient  is  invalided  so  as  to  be  confined  to  his 
room  or  the  house,  from  five  to  seven  pints  of  milk  daily  are 
quite  sufficient.  If  the  patient  loses  weight  on  a  milk  diet, 
although  it  otherwise  agrees  with  him,  it  may  be  well  to  add 
farinaceous  food  in  the  shape  of  rice  or  bread.  In  the  worst 
cases  it  is  desirable  to  give  the  milk  at  brief  intervals, 
in  quantities  of  six  ounces,  once  an  hour  during  the  day- 
time, with  an  extra  tumblerful  at  night,  and  on  awakening 
in  the  morning. 

The  quantity  of  milk  necessary  to  support  life  for  any 
length  of  time  and  maintain  good  nutrition,  especially  if 
the  patient  is  exercising  at  all,  is  considerable,  and  he  must 
take  from  fourteen  to  eighteen,  or  even  twenty-two  six-ounce 
tumblerfuls  of  milk  in  the  twenty-four  hours. 

It  is  usually  impossible  to  commence  at  this  rate  without 
producing  gastric  disturbances  from  souring  of  the  milk  in 
the  stomach,  and  possibly  diarrhoea.  The  latter  symptom 
is  an  almost  certain  indication  that  the  milk  is  being  im- 
perfectly digested,  and  a  temporary  reduction  in  its  quantity 
is  advised. 


GENITO-URINARY  SYSTEM  407 

In  very  advanced  cases  when  the  ability  of  the  kidneys  to 
excrete  protein  has  passed  a  certain  stage  a  pure  milk  diet 
is  out  of  the  question,  since  it  contains  far  too  much  protein. 
See  Diet  lists. 

As  the  patient  improves  the  milk  diet  may  be  given  up, 
but  it  should  never  be  too  suddenly  abandoned  In  adopting 
any  other  diet  it  is  a  good  rule  never  to  let  the  nitrogenous 
food  bear  a  greater  proportion  to  the  non-nitrogenous  than 
one  to  four. 

When,  after  a  milk  diet,  the  change  is  to  be  made  to  a  more 
liberal  menu,  the  hours  of  taking  the  milk  may  be  reduced 
in  frequency,  and  some  of  the  milk  may  be  replaced  by  the 
more  hearty  food. 

DIET:  Soup. —  Vegetable  or  fish  soup,  broths  with  rice  or  barley. 

Fish. —  Raw  oysters  or  clams,  fresh  fish  broiled  or  boiled. 

Meats. —  Eat  sparingly,  chicken,  game,  fat  bacon,  fat  ham. 

Farinaceous. —  Stale  bread,  whole  wheat  bread,  toast,  milk  toast, 
biscuits,  macaroni,  rice,  cereals  of  all  kinds. 

Vegetables. —  Onion,  cauliflower,  mashed  potatoes,  mushrooms,  let- 
tuce, watercress,  spinach,  celery,  cabbage. 

Desserts. —  Ripe  raw  fruits,  stewed  fruits,  rice,  tapioca,  bread  and 
milk  puddings,  junkets,  cocoa. 

Liquids. —  Toast  water,  weak  tea,  pure  water,  peptonised  milk, 
malted  milk,  fresh  buttermilk,  milk  with  hot  water  equal  parts, 
whey,  unfermented  grape  juice. 

AVOID. —  Fried  fish,  corned  beef,  hashes,  stews,  pork,  veal,  heavy 
bread,  batter  cakes,  lamb,  mutton,  beef,  gravies,  beans,  peas,  malt 
or  spirituous  liquors,  tobacco,  coffee,  ice  cream,  cake,  pastry. 

STANDARD  PARENCHYMATOUS  NEPHRITIS  DIET 

All  Food  to  be  Salt  Free 

New  York  Post  Graduate  Hospital  i 

7  a.  m.  Cocoa 180  c.c.    (6  02.) 

Bread  or  Toast 30  g. 

Butter    15  g. 

Cereal    1 00  g. 

10  a.  m.  Cocoa     180  c.c.    (6  oz.) 

Matzoths   1 

Butter    10  g. 

1  Diet  used  at  the  New  York  Post  Graduate  Hospital,  New  York  Oitj,  1917. 


408  DIET  IN  DISEASE 

12  m.       Cream  of  Vegetable  Soup   240  c.c.    (8  oz.)  f 

Baked  Potato  or  Boiled  Rice 130  g.      (Approximate) 

Bread  or  Toast 30  g. 

Butter    20  g. 

3  p.  m.  Cocoa 180  c.c. 

Matzoths    1 

Butter    10  g. 

5  p.  M.  Milk   180  c.c. 

Cream  of  Wheat  or  Rice 100  g. 

Sugar 10  g. 

Cream    30  c.c. 

Bread  or  Toast 30  g. 

Butter    20  g. 

Stewed  Prunes  or  Apricots 100  g. 

The  cocoa  used  is  to  be  prepared  as  follows: 

Cocoa    2  tsp. 

Sugar    1     " 

Hot  Water    ..%  C. 

Milk  y2  C. 

Level  measure  of  cocoa,  sugar,  water,  and  milk.  Mix  cocoa,  sugar, 
and  hot  water.  Cook  over  flame  three  minutes.  Add  milk  and  heat 
in  double  boiler  to  boiling  point.  Two  drops  of  vanilla  may  be 
added  as  flavor.     Beat  with  Dover  beater  before  serving. 

STANDARD  INTERSTITIAL  NEPHRITIS  DIET  I 
New  York  Post  Graduate  Hospital 

To  be  in  all  respects  similar  to  the  Parenchymatous  Xe- 
phritis  Diet,  except  that  the  food  is  not  to  be  prepared  salt  free, 
and  bread  or  toast  may  be  substituted  for  Matzoths. 

DIET  IN  UREMIA 

A  special  diet  is  indicated  when  uremia  is  actually  present, 
and  when  certain  symptoms  point  to  its  actual  approach ;  also 
probably  when  blood  and  urine  tests  show  that  uremia  will 
probably  develop  within  a  short  time. 

l  Diet  used  at  the  New  York  Post  Graduate  Hospital,  New  York  City,  1917. 


GENITO-linyAi:)'  SYSTEM  409 


UREMIC  DIETi 

Percentage  of 

Carbo-     Cal- 

Measure       Protein 

Fat       hydrates  ories 

Juice  of 

0  lemons 

9.8         60 

100          918 

Material  Weight 

Lemonade 

Lemon    Juice 

Sugar  224  gms 

Water  1  Litre 

Cornstarch 
Blanc  Mange 

Cornstarch        112  gms.  90  413 

Sugar  154      "  100  031 

Water  1  Litre 

Lemon    Juice  30  c.c. 

2022 

Divide  into  five  equal  portions,  feeding  at  8  a.  m.,  10  a.  m.,  12  M., 
3  p.  xi.,  and  6  p.  m. 
Method  of  making  Cornstarch  Blanc  Mange: 

Mix  cornstarch,  sugar  and  230  c.c.  of  cold  water  to  a  smooth  paste. 
Pour  750  c.c.  of  boiling  water  over  it  gradually,  stirring  constantly. 
Cook  over  flame  until  it  thickens,  meanwhile  stirring  constantly. 
Then  place  over  hot  water  30  minutes.  Add  lemon  juice  before 
serving. 

ALBUMINURIA 
Thompson  ~ 

Dietetic  Treatment.  The  frequent  return  of  functional 
albuminuria  should  be  regarded  as  an  indication  of  special 
weakness  of  the  kidneys  in  the  same  way  that  frequent 
£lycosuria  invites  suspicion  of  the  strength  of  the  digestive 
power  of  the  liver,  and  it  demands  a  careful  regulation  of 
the  diet.  Meat  should  be  reduced  in  quantity,  or  temporarily 
forbidden,  as  well  as  all  forms  of  alcoholic  drinks,  or  other 
substances  liable  to  produce  renal  irritation,  and  the  diet 
should  consist  chiefly  of  fruits,  vegetables,  and  milk.  Care- 
ful attention  must  be  paid  to  increasing  the  activity  of  the 
bowels. 

i  Diet  used  at  the  New  York  Po<t  Graduate  Hospital,  New  York  City,  1017. 
2  W.     Gilman.    Thompson,     M.D. :      "Practical     Dietetics."      New     York,      I>. 
Appleton  &  Co. 


410  DIET  IN  DISEASE 

When  functional  albuminuria  is  observed  in  children  and 
adolescents  the  following  dietary  from  which  a  variety  of 
foods  may  be  selected  is  recommended. 

Diet :  —  Bacon,  sweetbreads,  custards,  butter,  cream,  milk, 
cereals  and  breadstuffs,  gingerbread,  potatoes,  celery,  blanc- 
mange, Bavarian  cream,  whipped  cream,  and  sponge  cake. 
Wine  or  lemon  jelly,  junket,  bread  pudding,  apple  sauce,  or- 
anges, ripe  bananas,  pineapple  juice,  prunes,  cocoa,  lemonade, 
orangeade. 


CHAPTER  XIX 
DIET  IN  MISCELLANEOUS  AFFECTIONS 

NERVOUS  DISORDERS 

Dietetic  Treatment.  The  first  thing  to  be  done  for  a  per- 
son suffering  from  nerve  exhaustion  is  to  adopt  a  dietary 
and  a  habit  of  life,  that  will  rebuild  the  nerve  cells.  The 
lost  energy  must  be  gently  and  slowly  "  coaxed  "  back  —  not 
through  medicines,  but  through  proper  environments,  proper 
employment  and  proper  food.  There  is  no  disease  that  re- 
quires so  little  medicine  as  nerve  exhaustion.  The  dietary 
should  be  simple  and  nutritious,  abounding  in  lettuce,  pars- 
ley and  the  fresh  green  edibles  in  season.  If  there  is  much 
intestinal  disturbance,  foods  that  are  rich  in  starch  should 
be  discarded.  Active  stimulants  should  be  entirely  eschewed. 
Take  freely  of  unfermented  grape  juice,  malted  milk  and 
Sanatogen  in  milk  or  Vichy. 

In  functional  nervous  disease,  such  as  hysteria  and  hy- 
pochondriasis, the  appetite,  muscular  elasticity,  and  mental 
powers  will  often  be  observed  to  be  deficient  in  the  early  part 
of  the  day,  and  to  recover  their  tone  in  the  evening.  At  this 
latter  time,  therefore,  it  is  advisable  to  make  the  principal 
meal. 

DIET  IN  SKIN  DISEASES 

Nearly  all  affections  of  the  skin  of  constitutional  or  reflex 
(gastro-intestinal)  origin,  especially  acne,  eczema,  psoriasis, 
seborrhcea  capitis,  pruritus,  urticaria,  etc.,  improve  under 
dietetic  measures  and  often  recover  under  these  alone. 
While  no  special  plan  applies  to  all,  the  elimination  of  sugar 
and  sweets  of  all  kinds,  and  substances  rich  in  fat,  as  cheese, 
nuts,  fried  articles,  etc.,  is  essential.  Pure  fats  like  butter, 
cream,   salad   oil,   etc.,  are,   however,   well   enough   in   small 

411 


412  DIET  IN  DISEASE 

amounts.  Malt  liquors  and  sweet  wines  disagree,  largely 
because  of  the  sugar  therein;  but  alcohol  itself  is  also  prej- 
udicial in  many  cases. 

It  is  well  to  take  all  food  in  small  rations,  and  masticate 
it  thoroughly;  for  the  prejudicial  effect  of  food  in  skin  dis- 
eases is  often  directly  attributable  to  fermentation,  favored 
by  atony  of  the  digestive  tract,  dilated  stomach,  constipa- 
tion, etc.  Physical  exercise  is  of  great  benefit  in  most  of 
these  cases. 

The  diet  and  other  regimen  in  skin  diseases  is  much  like 
that  for  obesity,  gout  and  diabetes.  All  these  metabolic  dis- 
orders tend  to  produce  skin  diseases. 

DIET  FOR  CANCER  OR  SKIN  DISEASES  1 

First  Day 

Breakfast. —  4  ounces  rice,  3  ounces  corn  bread,   1^4  ounces  butter, 

y<2.  ounce  sugar,  hot  water. 
Dinner. —  5  ounces  vegetable  soup,  3  ounces  baked  potatoes,  3  ounces 

stewed  celery,    1    ounce  graham  bread,    \y±   ounces   butter,    1 

fresh  apple. 
Supper. —  4   ounces   rolled  oats,   2   ounces   white  bread,    1*4    ounces 

butter,  4  ounces   stewed  prunes,    y±   ounce   sugar,  very  weak 

tea. 

Second  Day 
Breakfast. —  Orange,  4  ounces  hominy,  2  ounces  graham  toast,   1^ 

ounces  butter,  %  ounce  sugar,  postum. 
Dinner. —  5    ounces   pea   soup,   3    ounces   macaroni,   3   ounces   string 

beans,  3  ounces  carrot,  2  ounces  bread,   1^4  ounces  butter. 
Supper. —  4    ounces   cream    of   wheat,    2    ounces   graham   toast,    1  ^4 

ounces  baked  apple,  2  ounces  crackers,  1}4  ounces  butter,  ^4 

ounce  sugar,  very  weak  tea. 

Third  Day 
Breakfast. —  Banana,  4  ounces  Petti  John,  2  ounces  white  bread,   1^4 

ounces  butter,  y>  ounce  sugar,  hot  water. 
Dinner. —  5    ounces    corn    soup,    3    ounces    baked    potato,    3    ounces 

spinach,   3   ounces  boiled  onion,   2   ounces  bread,    1*4    ounces 

butter,  raisins. 
Supper. —  4  ounces  farina,   4   ounces   stewed  figs,  2  ounces  graham 

cracker,  \y>  ounces  butter,  *4  ounce  sugar,  very  weak  tea. 

l  Diet  used  at  the  New  York  Skin  and  Cancer  Hospital,  New  York,  1917. 


MISCELLANEOUS  AFFECTIONS  413 

FOUBTH    Day 

Breakfast. —  Raw  apple,  4  ounces  cornmeal  mush,  2  ounces  graham 
bread,  1^4  ounces  butter,  y2  ounce  sugar,  postuni. 

Dinner. —  5  ounces  vegetable  soup,  4  ounces  baked  beans,  3  ounces 
cauliflower,  3  ounces  asparagus,  2  ounces  bread,  \i  ounce  but- 
ter, orange. 

Supper. —  4  ounces  rice,  4  ounces  stewed  prunes,  2  ounces  graham 
cracker,  1*4  ounces  butter,  *4  ounce  sugar,  very  weak  tea. 

Fifth  Day 
Breakfast. —  Orange,  4  ounces  cracked  wheat,  3  ounces  corn  muffins, 

114  ounces  butter,  %  ounce  sugar,  hot  water. 
Dinner. —  5  ounces  sago  soup,  4  ounces  spaghetti,  3  ounces  lima  beans, 

3  ounces  boiled  onions,  l1^  ounces  butter,  dates. 
Supper. —  4  ounces  cream  of  wheat,  sliced  orange,  2  ounces  oatmeal 

crackers,  1*4  ounces  butter,  14  ounce  sugar,  very  weak  tea. 

Sixth  Day 
Breakfast. —  4    ounces    samp,    2    ounces    graham    toast,    1*4    ounces 

butter,   \2  ounce  sugar,  Postum. 
Dinner. —  5  ounces  celery  soup,  4  ounces  baked  potatoes,   3  ounces 

carrots,  3  ounces  spinach,  1%  ounces  butter,  2  ounces  bread. 
Supper. —  4  ounces  wheatena,  4  ounces  stewed  figs,  2  ounces  Uneeda 

Biscuit,   I14   ounce  butter,   14   ounce  sugar,  very  weak  tea. 

DIETETIC  MANAGEMENT  OF  SURGICAL  CASES 

Not  much  special  attention  is  paid  to  dietetics  until  a  day 
or  two  before  operation,  with  the  exception  of  stomach  cases. 
Whenever  a  patient  is  to  be  operated  on  for  a  stomach  affec- 
tion, many  surgeons  advocate  the  free  use  of  articles  rich  in 
able  acids,  believing  that  such  articles  are  natural  anti- 
septics for  the  stomach  and  intestines.  These  substances, 
while  technically  acids,  are  quickly  changed  to  alkalies  in 
the  body,  and  tend  to  lessen  the  total  acidity  of  the  latter. 
Some  German  surgeons  even  allow  such  patients  to  eat  freely 
lerkraut,  sour  milk,  etc. 

In  other  cases,  the  patient  is  placed  in  bed,  or  is  in  com- 
plete rest  for  several  days,  and  fed  on  very  simple  and  nutri- 
tious articles  in  moderate  quantities  only.  The  old  custom 
ittening  or  building  patients  up  before  operating  on  them 
has  Largely  died  out.     If  the  had  general  state  of  the  patient 


414  DIET  IN  DISEASE 

is  due  to  the  condition  which  is  to  be  operated  on,  nothing 
is  gained  by  such  attempts.  In  the  case  of  a  rapidly  pro- 
gressing disease,  every  hour  lost  before  operating  may  dimin- 
ish the  chance  for  recovery,  immediate  or  ultimate.  If  the 
patient  is  in  bad  condition  for  withstanding  an  operation,  he 
may  often  be  operated  on  safely  under  local  anesthesia. 
There  are  many  resources  to-day  for  minimizing  the  dangers 
of  shock  and  hemorrhage.  As  a  general  rule  the  sooner  a 
patient  is  operated  on,  the  better,  irrespective  of  the  urgency 
of  the  condition.  To  live  for  weeks  and  months  in  anticipa- 
tion of  an  operation  is  believed  by  its  depressing  effect  to  off- 
set alleged  attempts  at  strengthening  patients. 

When  a  general  anesthetic  is  to  be  given  the  patient  must 
fast  beforehand  to  such  an  extent  that  the  stomach  is  empty 
at  the  hour  of  anesthesia.  As  operations  are  usually  per- 
formed in  the  forenoon,  the  patient  should  take  but  little 
supper  and  no  breakfast.  Should  the  operation  be  performed 
late  in  the  day,  he  may  have  a  light  breakfast. 

In  emergency  operations,  the  patient  having  taken  food 
within  six  hours,  the  stomach  should  first  be  washed  out. 
This  is  also  done  as  a  routine  procedure  in  all  operations 
involving  the  stomach  itself.  Water  may  be  given  at  any 
time.  After  the  operation  there  is  such  a  natural  tendency 
to  nausea  that  little  or  no  attempt  should  be  made  to  feed 
the  patient  for  some  hours.  Only  in  exceptional  cases  in 
which  the  stomach  is  not  upset  and  the  patient  complains 
of  hunger,  a  little  tea  and  toast,  or  milk  may  be  given.  In 
the  great  majority  of  cases  no  food  is  given  until  the  follow- 
ing day. 

As  soon  as  the  stomach  will  tolerate  it,  however,  simple 
nutritious  food  should  be  given  in  proper  amounts.  The 
tendency  to-day  is  toward  getting  up  early  after  operations, 
and  against  everything  which  tends  to  make  the  patient  pas- 
sive and  bedfast.  The  patient  therefore  needs  more  food 
than  if  he  were  to  be  bedridden. 

In  patients  who  from  any  reason  are  unconscious  or  de- 
lirious after  operation,  some  plan  of  artificial  treatment  is 


MISCELLANEOUS  AFFECTIONS  415 

necessary,  involving  the  use  of  the  nasal,  stomach  or  rectal 
tube. 

In  any  condition  in  which  post  operative  vomiting  will 
undo  the  results  of  operation,  the  diet  should  be  extremely 
light  and  bland  until  healing  has  occurred,  and  it  may  be 
necessary  to  feed  by  the  rectum.  If  the  patient  is  unable  to 
masticate  he  must  be  given  only  liquid  or  very  soft  foods. 

A-  a  rule,  when  post  operative  feeding  is  left  wholly  to 
the  discretion  of  the  nurse,  a  certain  rule  is  adopted  as  fol- 
lows : 

Xo  food  at  all  for  the  first  twenty-four  hours.  "Water  may 
be  given  in  sips  for  the  intolerable  thirst  and  in  addition  to 
plain  water,  the  patient  may  receive  a  swallow  of  carbonated 
water,  cracked  ice,  a  little  hot  tea  or  black  coffee,  or  some 
alcoholic  stimulant.  Toward  the  end  of  the  period  a  tea- 
spoonful  or  two  of  milk  diluted  with  lime  water  may  be 
given. 

During  the  second  twenty-four-hour  period  about  one-half 
a  pint  of  milk  or  some  other  liquid  food  may  be  given  in 
small  doses  and  this  amount  may  be  doubled  on  the  third 
day. 

The  third  or  fourth  day  usually  coincides  with  normal 
bowel  action,  the  patient  having  received  laxatives  on  the  day 
preceding.  The  patient  as  soon  as  this  has  occurred  may 
go  upon  a  semi-solid  diet,  so  increased  as  to  be  regular  at 
the  end  of  a  week  or  ten  days. 

The  diet  varies  notably  with  the  patient  and  the  kind  of 
operation  and  its  outcome  and  the  responsibility  for  special 
provisions  suited  to  individual  cases  falls  upon  the  medical 
attendant  and  are  modified  from  day  to  day  under  his  direc- 
tions. 

DIET  AFTER  LAPAROTOMY,  OVARIOTOMY,  ETC. 
Dr.  Thompson  i 

After  all  operations  involving  opening  the  peritoneal  cav- 
ity complete  rest  of  the  stomach  is  necessary  for  at  least  four 

i  W.  Gilman  Thompson,  M.D.:  "Practical  Dietetics."  New  York.  D. 
Appleton  &  Co. 


416  DIET  IN  DISEASE 

or  six  hours,  and  not  infrequently  for  two  or  three  days. 
Food  and  stimulants  may  be  given  by  enemata.  If  fed  per  os 
for  the  first  three  days,  not  over  a  tablespoonful  of  pancrea- 
tinised  milk  or  milk  with  lime  water  or  barely  water  should 
be  allowed,  once  in  two  or  three  hours.  Later  the  quantity 
may  be  increased  and  the  intervals  diminished,  and  beef  tea, 
beef  peptonoids,  and  egg  albumin  may  be  added. 

In  these  cases  the  duration  of  anesthesia  has  usually  been 
prolonged,  and  the  shock  is  considerable.  The  danger  from 
the  occurrence  of  vomiting,  fermentation  of  food,  and  flatu- 
lent distention  of  the  abdomen  is  far  worse  than  that  of  in- 
anition from  abstinence.  It  is  well  also  to  precede  the  opera- 
tion by  a  day  or  two  of  dieting  in  order  to  lessen  the  bulk 
of  intestinal  waste  matter.  To  this  end  the  diet  should, 
when  possible,  consist  chiefly  of  lean  meat  and  dry  toast, 
vegetables  and  especially  sweets  being  avoided. 

After  wounds  and  operations  affecting  the  stomach  or  in- 
testines no  food  at  all  should  be  given  by  the  mouth.  Noth- 
ing but  a  little  cracked  ice  should  be  so  administered,  and 
all  nourishment  must  be  supplied  for  several  days  by  the 
rectum.  The  return  to  mouth-feeding  must  be  made  very 
slowly  and  cautiously  by  at  first  giving  not  over  one  or  two 
tablespoonfuls  of  pancreatinised  milk  or  beef  juice  at  a  time. 

There  is  often  much  thirst  following  operations  involving 
the  peritonaeum,  which  is  relieved  more  by  hot  fluids  than  by 
ice,  which  sometimes  irritates  the  throat  and  increases  the 
desire  for  drink.  If  there  is  danger  of  all  fluids  exciting 
emesis,  a  salt-water  enema  once  in  three  or  four  hours  will 
alleviate  thirst. 


CHAPTER  XX 

DIET  IN  SPECIAL  CONDITIONS 

MOTHERHOOD 

DIET  IN  PREGNANCY 

It  is  necessary  to  adopt  a  specific  diet  for  pregnancy  only 
when  complications  arise.  If  serious  vomiting  occurs  in  the 
early  months,  this  disorder  should  be  treated  in  the  manner 
described  in  the  following  article.  If  albuminuria  is  discov- 
ered, meat  and  other  nitrogenous  food  must  be  restricted  in 
accordance  with  directions  given  for  albuminuria.  If  the 
patient  becomes  anaemic,  without  albuminuria,  milk,  eggs 
and  other  iron-bearing  foods  should  be  eaten  in  abundance, 
particularly  such  vegetables  as  spinach  and  celery,  and  fruits 
including  oranges  and  dates.  In  cases  where  constipation 
must  be  remedied,  fruits,  vegetables,  and  coarse  cereals  such 
as  oatmeal  and  wheaten  grits,  will  be  of  service.  The  "  long- 
in  ir n  of  pregnant  women  for  various  indigestible  articles 
such  as  pickles,  chalk,  etc.,  is  largely  mythical,  and  occurs, 
if  at  all,  only  as  an  accompaniment  of  a  general  hysterical 
condition,  not  as  a  peculiarity  of  the  period  of  pregnant  v. 

A  few  general  rules  for  wise  eating  would  certainly  include 
the  following: 

1.  Let  the  diet  always  be  simple  and  easy  of  digestion. 

2.  Be  sure  that  it  furnishes  abundant  fuel  value,  since  car- 
rying  the  unborn  child  increases  the  energy  requirement  of 
pregnant  women  about  10%  over  the  normal. 

'■'•.  include  in  the  dietary  foods  high  in  calcium  and  phos- 
phorus; among  the  f"  ■  milk,  orange  juice,  and  inch 

-.    asparagus,    lettuce,    and 
spinach:  among  the  latter,   fish,  lean   beef,  let'  Lnach, 


418  DIET  IN  SPECIAL  CONDITIONS 

rutabagas,  and  parsnips.  The  skeletal  lime  supply  and  some- 
times the  teeth  of  the  pregnant  woman  are  called  upon  to 
furnish  calcium  for  the  unborn  child,  if  the  food  does  not 
supply  enough  lime.  During  periods  of  insufficient  phos- 
phorus assimilation,  there  is  also  skeletal  lime-waste. 

4.  Never  eat  when  tired,  and  do  not  overload  the  stomach. 

The  diet  as  a  whole,  then,  must  be  digestible,  and  suffi- 
ciently high  in  nourishment  and  mineral  content  to  keep  the 
patient  in  good  condition. 

VOMITING  —  SEASICKNESS  —  VOMITING  OF  PREGNANCY 
Thompson  i 

The  first  principle  in  the  dietetic  treatment  of  vomiting 
from  any  cause  is  to  give  the  stomach  rest.  If  it  has  been 
overloaded  with  a  large  bulk  of  food,  or  with  indigestible 
material,  it  is  well  to  encourage  emesis,  and  distressing  retch- 
ing may  be  overcome  by  taking  large  draughts  of  lukewarm 
water.  A  quart  or  two  will  rinse  out  the  stomach  and  allay 
irritation  to  a  marked  degree. 

Well  nourished  patients  when  serious  vomiting  first  occurs 
should  usually  refrain  from  taking  food  of  any  kind  for  from 
ten  or  twelve  or  even  twenty-four  hours.  Exceptions  to  this 
rule  are  sometimes  found  in  that  type  of  seasickness,  and 
sometimes  in  the  vomiting  of  pregnancy,  in  which,  as  soon 
almost  as  the  stomach  is  emptied,  there  is  a  desire  to  replen- 
ish the  loss. 

In  any  case  in  which  the  gastric  irritation  is  persistent, 
it  is  necessary  to  give  fluid  food,  and  only  in  small  oft-re- 
peated doses,  preferably  in  predigested  form.  The  food  is 
best  given  cold,  as  a  rule,  although  some  persons  can  relieve 
nausea  by  sipping  very  hot  water. 

A  teaspoon  of  prepared  milk,  or  in  extreme  cases  but  a 
few  drops,  given  with  a  medicine  dropper  once  in  ten  or  fif- 
teen minutes,  may  be  all  that  the  stomach  will  at  first  toler- 
ate. 

The  following  is  a  list  of  dietetic  substances  which  are 

i  W.  Oilman  Thompson,  M.D.:  "Practical  Dietetics."  New  York.  D. 
Appleton  &  Co. 


MOTHERHOOD  419 

commonly  prescribed  for  the  relief  of  nausea  and  vomiting, 
or  for  nourishment  while  those  conditions  exist:  Cracked 
ice;  pancreatinised  milk;  milk  with  sodium  bicarbonate  (ten 
grains),  and  cerium  oxalate  (five  grains);  milk  and  lime 
water;  Vichy  or  milk  with  Sanatogen;  milk  and  Vichy,  soda, 
seltzer,  or  carbonic-acid  water;  kumyss  and  zoolak;  beef  ex- 
tracts ;  raw  meat  pulp,  scraped ;  strong  black  coffee ;  sour  lem- 
onade or  lemonade  and  Vichy ;  clam  broth.  Dry  crackers,  dry 
toast,  and  ginger  snaps  will  sometimes  be  retained  in  seasick- 
ness, or  a  cracker  buttered  and  sprinkled  with  a  little 
Cavenne  pepper;  brandy  and  soda;  iced  dry  champagne;  iced 
brandy  diluted  with  water,  soda  water,  or  White  Rock  water. 
Very  severe  and  protracted  cases  may  require  lavage  or 
nutrient  enemata.  Vomiting  after  abdominal  surgical  opera- 
tions is  often  controlled  by  lavage. 

DIET  FOR  THE  MOTHER  AFTER  LABOR 

Immediately  after  labor  in  normal  cases  a  milk  diet  is 
given  for  the  first  six  hours ;  at  the  end  of  that  time,  regular 
diet.  The  regular  diet  should  include  stewed  fruits,  and 
cereals  given  frequently;  eggs,  vegetables  which  are  easy  of 
digestion,  and  very  little  meat  —  no  veal  nor  pork.  Plenty 
of  milk  should  be  supplied. 

In  abnormal  cases  the  diet  is  prescribed  by  the  physician. 

In  cases  of  severe  engorgement  of  breasts,  fluids  are  re- 
stricted; a  dry  diet  is  given,  wrhich  consists  of  the  regular 
diet,  and  one  glass  of  milk  with  each  meal ;  no  tea  nor  coffee, 
and  no  fluid  between  meals. 

In  cases  of  eclampsia  milk  is  always  given,  and  also  a 
large  quantity  of  water,  either  hot  or  cold,  and  cream  of  tartar 
drink. 

DIET  OF  A  NURSING  MOTHER  OR  WET  NURSE 
Thompson  i 

The  diet  of  the  nursing  mother  or  wet  nurse  must  be  regu- 
lated to  prevent  noxious  substances   from  passing  into  the 

i  W.  Gilman  Thompson,  M.D.:  "Practical  Dietetics."  New  York.  D. 
Appleton  &  Co. 


420  DIET  IN  SPECIAL  CONDITIONS 

breast  milk,  and  to  keep  her  in  good  health,  so  that  she  does 
not  suffer  from  constipation,  indigestion,  or  anaemia.  Her 
weight  should  not  alter,  and  if  she  has  menstruated  once  or 
twice  the  milk  changes  and  may  disagree. 

If  milk  does  not  make  her  constipated  or  bilious,  she  may 
drink  it  abundantly.  Cream,  cocoa,  and  chocolate  are  all 
valuable  in  the  diet.  She  may  take  gruels  and  meat  broths, 
and  she  should  eat  simple  nourishing  food,  meat,  eggs,  veg- 
etables, and  fruits.  The  latter,  even  if  sour,  do  not  react 
unfavorably  upon  the  child,  provided  the  mother's  digestion 
is  good,  and  they  serve  to  keep  the  child's  bowels  active.  A 
high  supply  of  calcium  is  still  necessary,  for  the  mammary 
glands,  during  their  activity,  are  a  severe  drain  on  the  skeletal 
lime  unless  an  abundance  is  offered  for  assimilation  from 
the  food.  Accordingly  the  vegetables  and  fruits  named  be- 
fore are  a  necessary  addition  to  the  diet.  A  liberal  supply  of 
iron  is  also  very  desirable.  The  iron  of  meat,  occurring  in 
the  blood  which  is  not  very  easily  digested,  is  less  available 
than  the  iron  of  eggs,  vegetables,  and  fruits.  The  mother 
should  forego  the  drinking  of  much  tea  and  coffee.  Beer 
and  wine  also  should  not  be  drunk  unless  they  are  especially 
prescribed  as  a  tonic.  Wet  nurses  often  demand  beer,  ale, 
or  porter  with  their  meals  if  they  have  been  accustomed 
to  it;  but  the  popular  idea  that  such  beverages  are  especially 
beneficial  is  fallacious.  Malt  liquor  sometimes  causes  the 
secretion  of  more  milk,  because  more  fluid  is  drunk,  but  the 
milk  is  no  better  for  it.  A  reasonable  quantity  of  fluids 
should  be  drunk,  however,  or  the  secretion  of  milk  will  suffer. 
The  fluid  may  be  in  the  form  of  plain  or  effervescing  water, 
milk,  soups,  etc. 

The  mother  or  wet  nurse  should  avoid  all  fatigue,  worry, 
and  emotional  excitement  of  any  kind,  which  may  inhibit  her 
digestive  functions,  and  should  take  daily  outdoor  exercise. 

On  the  whole,  the  best  indication  for  the  dietetic  treatment 
of  the  wet  nurse  is  the  study  of  the  condition  of  the  child's 
digestion,  bowels,  and  nutrition.     A  too  meager  diet  for  the 


MOTHERHOOD  421 

nurse  is  soon  evident  in  lack  of  nutrition  and  development 
of  the  infant. 

Drugs  in  Human  Milk.  Xot  many  drugs  pass  unchanged 
into  the  milk  which  are  likely  to  poison  the  child  through 
its  food,  but  there  are  some  which  should  be  carefully  avoided 
on  this  account.  Such  are  belladonna,  opium,  morphine,  and 
other  alkaloids;  iodin  and  its  preparations;  mercury  and  its 
salts ;  salicylic  acid. 

When,  for  any  reason,  it  becomes  necessary  to  discontinue 
the  nursing  and  to  stop  further  secretion  of  milk,  the  diet 
should  at  once  be  made  as  dry  as  possible,  and  a  minimum 
quantity  only  of  fluid  is  allowed. 


CHAPTER  XXI 
INFANT  FEEDING 

PROCESS  OF  DIGESTION* 

In  order  to  comprehend  the  principles  which  underlie  the 
proper  feeding  of  infants,  it  is  well  to  understand  what  is 
involved  in  the  process  of  digestion  and  what  food  elements 
are  needed  for  the  growth,  maintenance,  and  repair  of  the 
body. 

Digestion  is  the  process  or  series  of  processes  by  which  the 
food  eaten  is  changed  into  the  forms  in  which  it  can  be  ab- 
sorbed by  the  tissues  of  the  body.  This  is  a  most  intricate 
operation,  involving  the  use  of  many  organs  and  functions, 
but  one  which  takes  place  without  difficulty  in  the  healthy 
human  body.  But  since  all  the  complicated  machinery  neces- 
sary for  digestion  must  be  started  at  once,  and  since,  neces- 
sarily, the  organs  of  a  newborn  baby  can  be  but  feeble,  it 
stands  to  reason  that  the  food  presented  to  him  must  be  espe- 
cially adapted  to  his  needs.  This  food  must  be  liquid;  it 
must  also  contain  the  five  essential  elements  which  the  human 
body  requires  for  maintenance  and  growth,  namely,  the  fats, 
sugars  and  starches,  which  furnish  the  necessary  fuel  for 
energy;  the  proteins,  or  muscle-forming  foods;  the  mineral 
salts  needed  for  the  growth  of  all  tissues  and  regulation  of 
body  processes  and,  lastly,  a  great  amount  of  water.  All 
these  are  found  in  milk,  and  in  no  other  food  which  the  in- 
star  (*)  indicates  quotations  from  "  Infant  Care  "  issued  by  the  U.  S. 
Department  of  Labor,  Children's  Bureau,  Washington,  D.  C  (Care  of  Chil- 
dren,  Series  No.  2,   Bureau  Publication  No.  8.) 

References  to  "  Parental  Care  "  issued  by  the  U.  S.  Department  of 
Labor,  Children's  Bureau,  Washington,  D.  C,  are  made  in  this  chapter, 
copies  of  same  can  be  secured  by  writing  to  the  department. 

422 


INFANT  FEEDING  t23 

fanl  la  capable  o(  digesting.     Therefore  milk  is  the  one  proper 

infant   food. 

BREAST  FEEDING* 

The  milk  necessary  for  the  norma]  healthy  growth  of  every 
infant  mammal,  including  the  human  species,  is  create-]  for 
it  in  the  breast  of  its  mother.  The  milk  of  the  cow,  mare, 
38,  goat,  and  other  animals  has  been  analyzed  by  many  in- 
vestigators, to  see  whether  any  one  of  them  hears  so  close  a 
resemblance  to  human  milk  that  it  may  be  used  as  a  substi- 
tute. All  these  investigations  show  that  the  milk  of  each 
animal  is  different  from  that  of  every  other,  and  each  is  espe- 
cially adapted  to  the  requirements  of  the  young  of  that  spe- 
cies.  No  other  argument  than  this  simple  physiological  one 
should  be  needed  to  induce  a  thoughtful  mother  to  nurse  her 
baby  at  the  beginning  of  his  life,  but  if  further  demonstra- 
tion is  needed  the  evidence  on  every  hand  of  the  comparative 
failure  of  artificial  feeding,  at  least  as  far  as  young  babies 
are  concerned,  should  be  convincing.1 

Statistics  gathered  from  this  country  and  many  others  show 
that  hreast-fed  babies  have  a  much  greater  chance  for  life 
than  those  who  are  bottle  fed,  and  also  that  the  infant  ill— 
8,  not  only  those  of  the  digestive  tract  but  many  other 
varieties,  afflict  bottle-fed  infants  much  oftener  and  much 
more  seriously  than  those  who  have  breast  milk.  But  not 
only  does  breast  milk  protect  the  nursing  baby  from  illness 
and  increase  materially  his  chance  for  life,  but  it  practically 
insures  that  his  development  shall  proceed  in  a  normal  orderly 
fashion. 

The  body  makes  a  greater  proportional  growth  during  the 
first  year  of  life  than  during  any  other,  and  the  brain  in- 
creases more  in  the  same  time  than  in  all  the  rest  of  the 
years  of  life  put  together.  It  is  therefore  of  the  utmost  im- 
portance to  the  whole  existence  of  each  individual  thai  during 
this  mosi  critical  period  the  baby  be  surrounded  with  all  the 
jeitiea  for  perfect  health.     The  most   important  of  these 

Prenatal  Can-.   up.   32—35,   for  consideration  of  breast  feeding  as  af- 
fected  by   prenatal   conditions. 


424  DIET  IN  SPECIAL  CONDITIONS 

necessities  is  breast  milk.  Food  is  the  one  question  of  over- 
whelming importance  to  the  baby.  If  the  food  is  one  to 
which  the  digestive  apparatus  must  learn  to  accommodate 
itself^  or  one  which  is  lacking  in  some  of  the  elements  neces- 
sary for  growth  and  development,  the  natural  processes  are 
hindered,  and  if  illness  comes,  they  are  seriously  interfered 
with,  sometimes  to  an  extent  which  makes  it  difficult,  if  not 
impossible,  for  the  baby  entirely  to  regain  the  lost  ground. 
To  accustom  the  infant  organs  to  do  their  work  properly  at 
this  critical,  formative  time  is  essential  to  the  health  of  the 
adult  in  no  small  degree.  Undoubtedly  in  many  cases  grown 
people  would  have  escaped  many  of  the  defects  and  deficiencies 
with  which  they  have  to  contend  if  they  had  passed  the  period 
of  infancy  in  perfect  health. 

These  are  the  impelling  reasons  why  mothers  should  nurse 
their  babies.  Other  less  important  reasons  are  that  if  the 
mother  takes  care  of  the  baby  herself  it  is  much  easier  to 
nurse  than  to  feed  by  a  bottle ;  that  breast  milk  is  practically 
free  from  disease  germs,  and  that  it  is  fed  to  the  baby  at  a 
uniform  temperature  from  beginning  to  end  of  the  nursing. 

NURSING  MOTHER*  i 

The  majority  of  mothers  can  nurse  their  babies,  at  least 
in  part,  if  they  have  suitable  care  and  advice.  What  is  chiefly 
required  is  that  this  conviction  should  enter  the  mind  of  the 
mother  and  abide  there ;  for  the  fear  that  she  will  not  be  able 
to  perform  this  function,  or  that  the  milk  will  not  or  does 
not  agree  with  her  child,  has  more  to  do  with  the  supposed 
inability  to  nurse  than  any  other  one  factor.  The  gland 
which  secretes  maternal  milk  is  a  wonderful  and  delicate 
mechanism.  So  intimate  is  the  connection  of  the  mammary 
nerves  with  the  mind  that  the  mental  states  of  the  mother 
are  readily  reflected  in  their  function.  Fear,  anger,  or  worry 
may  serve  to  check  the  secretion  of  the  milk,  or  to  change 
its  quality  so  much  that,  for  the  time  being,  it  is  unfit  for 
use,  while,  on  the  other  hand,  a  calm  mind,  joy,  laughter, 

l  See  Prenatal  Care,  pp.  32-35. 


INFANT  FEEDING  425 

and  delight  in  life,  coupled  with  the  desire  and  intention  to 
nurse  the  baby,  will  make  it  possible  to  do  so.  Failing  this 
spirit,  all  other  measures  may  prove  futile. 

The  secretion  of  milk  is  induced  by  the  efforts  of  the  baby 
to  nurse,  and  therefore  he  should  be  put  to  the  breasl  regu- 
larly for  at  Least  two  weeks  after  birth,  even  if  only  a  very 
little  milk  is  secreted.  This  patient  effort,  with  proper  food 
and  tare,  coupled  with  the  determination  to  succeed,  will 
usually  result  in  a  good  supply  of  milk,  and  no  physician  or 
nurse  who  appreciates  the  value  of  breast  milk  for  the  baby 
will  counsel  another  course.  It  is  rarely  true  that  the  moth- 
er's milk  does  not  agree  with  the  baby.  It  is  much  more 
often  deficient  in  quantity  than  in  quality.  The  return  of 
menstruation  may  lead  to  a  slight  temporary  disturbance,  but 
it  is  not  a  sufficient  cause  for  weaning. 

Dii  t.  A  nursing  mother  should  have  a  light,  abundant, 
and  appetizing  diet,  and  such  a  one  as  causes  her  no  indi- 
gestion. Disturbances  in  the  digestive  tract  of  the  mother 
are  quickly  reflected  in  the  baby's  condition,  and  therefore 
the  mother  should  refrain  from  eating  or  drinking  those 
things  which  -he  knows  from  experience  she  can  not  digest. 
A-  a  rule,  indigestion  in  the  mother,  which  shows  it -elf  in 
constipation,  eructations  of  gas,  headache,  diarrhea,  and  the 
like,  is  caused  by  such  foods  as  heavy  puddings  or  underdone 
pastry;  doughnuts;  fried  food  soaked  in  fat;  made  dishes, 
such  as  croquettes  and  fritters;  pickles,  mincemeat,  baked 
beans,  pork  and  cabbage,  and  other  heavy  or  poorly  cooked 
:  but  people  differ  greatly  in  their  power  of  digestion, 
and  what  will  suit  one  person  may  upset  the  next.  Overeat- 
ing may  he  a  cause  of  indigestion. 

A  mixed  diet  of  such  digestible  and  nutritious  foods  a-  are 
readily  available  is  desirable  for  the  nursing  mother.  All 
are  milk-making  foods.  Emphasis  should  he  laid  on 
a  high  calcium  and  iron  content  for  the  diet  ;  the  former  is 
jsary  since  the  mammary  -land-,  during  their  period  of 
activity,  are  ;i  severe  drain  on  the  skeletal  lime  unless  a  plen- 
tiful supply  i-  present   in  the  food  offered   for  assimilation. 


426  DIET  IN  SPECIAL  CONDITIONS 

Accordingly  such  vegetables  as  celery,  asparagus,  carrots,  let- 
tuce, radishes  and  spinach,  and  such  fruits  as  oranges,  grape 
fruit,  dates,  etc.,  besides  plenty  of  milk,  are  necessary  in  the 
diet.  A  liberal  amount  of  iron  will  be  insured  by  the  above 
list,  provided  eggs  are  added.  In  general  the  foods  will  in- 
clude vegetables  easy  of  digestion,  ripe  fruits,  poultry,  beef, 
lamb,  fish,  with  oysters  and  the  like,  eggs,  milk,  cheese, 
farinaceous  foods  (cereals,  flour,  meals,  etc.),  breads,  espe- 
cially graham,  whole  wheat,  corn  meal,  and  bran,  and  simple 
desserts.  Occasionally  acid  fruits,  vegetables,  and  spices 
eaten  by  the  mother  may  cause  some  disturbance  in  the  baby, 
and  in  such  cases  they  should  be  avoided. 

Constipation  is  to  be  most  carefully  avoided,  by  eating  bran 
bread,1  vegetables  in  which  the  cellulose  content  is  high,  and 
other  laxative  foods.  Drugs  should  be  taken  as  little  as  pos- 
sible, and  only  on  the  doctor's  advice.  Tea  and  coffee  may  be 
taken  in  moderation,  not  more  than  one  cup  of  each  a  day. 
Alcoholic  drinks  of  all  sorts  are  better  avoided.  One  quart 
of  milk  should  be  taken  each  day.  Six  to  eight  glasses  of 
good  drinking  water  a  day  are  required,  one  or  two  of  which 
should  be  taken  on  rising  to  encourage  the  action  of  the  bowels. 

Exercise.  In  order  that  a  healthy  nursing  mother  may  be 
able  to  eat  and  digest  a  generous  supply  of  food  materials, 
exercise  in  the  fresh  air  is  indispensable.  This  must  be  un- 
dertaken gradually,  so  that  the  woman  who  is  not  accustomed 
to  exercise  may  not  be  overtired.  A  vigorous  walk  is  one 
of  the  best  of  tonics,  because  of  its  effect  both  on  the  body 
and  on  the  mind.  Worries  take  flight  when  treated  to  sun- 
shine and  fresh  air  and  leave  the  nervous  system  free  to 
perform  its  normal  functions.  The  woman  who  has  a  garden 
to  look  after,  or  other  interests  which  take  her  out  of  doors 
a  good  deal  in  the  course  of  a  day,  gets  her  exercise  in  the 
most  natural  way,  but  she  will  need  to  be  on  guard  against 
overtaxing  herself.  No  exercise  should  be  carried  on  to  the 
point  of.  weariness,  because  then  the  nutriment  which  should 

1  See    "  Diet    for    a    nursing   mother,"    Prenatal    Care,    p.    34. 


INFANT  FEEDING  427. 

go  to  make  milk  for  the  baby  will  be  used  to  renew  the  moth- 
er's worn-nut  tissue-. 

Sleep.  An  abundance  of  sleep  is  essential.  The  nursing 
mother  should  have  at  least  eight  hours  of  sleep  every  night, 
and  an  hour  in  the  daytime.  A  mother  soon  learns  to  rest 
herself  whenever  the  baby  nurses,  and  these  brief  period-  of 
relaxation  help  greatly  to  keep  her  in  good  condition. 

Bathing.1  A  daily  bath  is  desirable,  and  should  be  taken 
whenever  possible.  It  is  especially  important  to  remove  the 
odors  of  perspiration  or  old  milk  from  the  mother's  body  and 
clothing,  as  the  baby  may  refuse  to  nurse  when  an  unpleasant 
odor  is  forced  upon  him. 

Amusements  and  Recreation.  A  conscientious  young 
mother  is  very  apt  to  defeat  her  own  ends  by  staying  at  home 
too  constantly  and  watching  over  her  baby  so  incessantly  that 
she  grows  pale  and  nervous  and  begins  to  worry,  a  condition 
which  often  results  in  depletion  of  the  milk  and  correspond- 
ing disturbance  in  the  baby.  Healthy  babies  are  better  off 
with  a  judicious  amount  of  "letting  alone/'  and  there  is  no 
i  why  a  mother  should  not  be  absent  some  part  of  every 
day.  if  there  is  a  responsible  person  to  be  left  in  charge.  Out- 
of-door  life,  pleasant  recreation  which  is  not  exhausting,  vis- 
iting, and  other  diversions  are  essential  to  every  nursing 
mother  if  she  is  to  keep  up  an  abundant  supply  of  milk.  The 
family,  especially  the  husband,  should  realize  how  important 
to  shield  the  nursing  mother  from  unnecessary  work  and 
worry,  and  to  provide  her  at  intervals  with  the  opportunity 
for  rest  and  recreation.  However,  a  healthy  mother  should 
not  regard  herself  nor  permit  her  family  to.  regard  her  a-  in 
any  >eiise  an  invalid  at  this  time.  She  is  much  more  likely 
to  succeed  in  nursing  if  she  goes  about  her  ordinarv  duties 
a-  usual  and  fills  her  life  with  norma]  interests. 

TECHNIQUE  OF  NURSING* 

The  firsi  secretion  of  the  breasts  is  called  colostrum,  and 

while  not   a  true  milk  is  adapted  to  the  baby's  needs  in  the 

bathing,"   Prenatal  Care,  p.    13. 


428  DIET  IN  SPECIAL  CONDITIONS 

firsl  hours  of  his  life.  He  should  therefore  be  put  to  the 
breast  as  soon  after  birth  as  the  mother  is  able  to  bear  it. 
This  early  nursing  is  important  to  the  mother  because  it  helps 
to  contract  the  uterus,  and  to  the  baby  for  various  reasons, 
one  of  which  is  that  he  needs  to  learn  how  to  draw  his  food 
before  the  breast  fills  with  milk  and  becomes  less  pliant  and 
more  painful. 

The  mother  holds  the  baby  on  her  arm,  drawing  him  to  the 
breast  in  such  a  way  that  his  head  is  comfortably  supported, 
turning  slightly  toward  the  side  she  wishes  to  present  and 
drawing  the  baby's  feet  and  legs  against  her  body.  A  pillow 
under  the  opposite  shoulder  is  a  welcome  support.  The  baby 
should  be  able  to  grasp  the  nipple  squarely.  If  his  head  is 
too  low,  the  milk  may  flow  back  in  his  throat,  making  him 
cough  and  choke;  but  the  head  must  be  low  enough  so  that 
the  nostrils  are  not  covered  by  the  breast.  It  is  impossible 
for  the  baby  to  suck  properly  unless  he  can  breathe  freely, 
and  the  mother  should  hold  the  breast  away  from  his  nostrils 
with  the  fingers  of  her  free  hand.  When  the  breasts  have 
filled,  if  the  milk  flows  too  fast,  as  sometimes  happens,  she 
may  control  the  flow  by  taking  the  breast  in  her  hand  so  that 
one  finger  is  above  and  one  below  the  nipple  and  by  pressing 
it  gently  at  the  base.  If  the  baby's  efforts  to  nurse  make  the 
mother's  nipples  sore,  they  should  be  washed  with  plain  boiled 
water  or  boric-acid  solution  before  and  after  each  nursing  and 
may  be  anointed  with  lanolin  at  night,  covering  them  with 
gauze  or  clean  linen.  If  a  crack  should  appear,  the  greatest 
care  should  be  taken  to  prevent  infecting  the  breast,  as  if  this 
happens  a  painful  breast  abcess  may  result.  A  doctor  should 
always  be  consulted.  The  cracked  nipple  should  be  kept  con- 
stantly clear  by  washing  it  with  boiled  water.  A  glass  nipple 
shield  should  he  used,  care  being  taken  that  it  is  always  per- 
IVcilx  clean  and  made  Bterile  by  boiling.  The  shield  will  not 
materially  increase  the  difficulty  of  nursing  for  the  baby  and 
will  safeguard  the  mother.  If  the  breasts  become  engorged, 
they  may  he  relieved  by  using  a  breast  pump,  if  necessary, 
or  by  gentle   massage;  hut  all  manipulation  only  serves  to 


INFANT  FEEDING  W.) 

stimulate  the  breasi  to  greater  activity  and  the  less  handling 
it  ran  have  the  better.  Hoi  or  cold  applications,  according 
to  the  patient's  preference,  are  useful,  and  a  breast  binder 

is  often  a  greal  relict',  but  should  be  applied  by  a  physician 
or  nurse.1  I'sually  the  matter  rights  itself  without  difficulty 
•  »n  as  the  relation  between  the  supply  and  demand  is 
established.  If  the  mother  has  received  the  proper  care  dur- 
ing pregnancy  and  the  breasts  and  nipples  have  received  due 
attention,  which  is  part  of  a  doctor's  duty,  the  nursing  period 
will  he  shorn  of  much  of  its  pain  and  trouble.  In  general, 
the  nipples  should  be  kept  as  clean  and  as  dry  as  possible 
and  should  be  washed  before  each  nursing. 

REGULARITY  IN  NURSING* 

The  baby  should  be  nursed  regularly,  by  the  clock,  from 
the  very  first  and  should  have  nothing  between  meals  save 
water  to  drink.  It  takes  from  one  and  one-half  to  three 
hours  for  a  baby's  stomach  to  empty  itself  after  a  full  meal 
of  breast  milk,  and  considerably  longer  for  the  process  of 
digestion  to  be  completed  in  the  intestines. 

The  baby  should  not  ordinarily  be  allowed  to  remain  at  the 
breast  over  20  minutes  in  any  case,  and  the  nipple  should  be 
withdrawn  several  times  during  the  nursing,  so  tiiat  he  will 
not  take  the  food  too  rapidly  with  consequent  regurgitation 
and  indigestion.  If  the  milk  is  plentiful,  the  breasts  -hould 
be  nursed  alternately,  but  it  may  be  necessary  to  give  both 
breasts  at  one  feeding,  in  order  to  satisfy  the  baby.  Do  not 
let  the  baby  go  to  sleep  while  nursing. 

HOW  OFTEN  TO  FEED* 

Most  babies  thrive  better  if  the  interval  between  feedings 
i-  fairly  long.     This  interval  may  be  six  hours  until  the  milk 
tablished.     Prom  that  time  the  baby  may  he  \'vd  at  three- 
hour    intervals    until    he    is   4    months   old,   when    four    hours 
should  he  allowed  to  elapse  between  feedings.     Many  babies 
ell  if  l'f<\  only  once  in  four  hour-  from  birth.     However, 

Prenatal  Care  for  the  treatmr-nt  of  <-ngorged  breasts. 


430  DIET  IN  SPECIAL  CONDITIONS 

if  the  breast  supply  is  scanty,  more  frequent  stimulation  is 
sometimes  necessary  to  the  success  of  breast  feeding. 

Night  feeding  (after  the  10  o'clock  nursing)  may  be 
omitted  when  the  child  is  4  months  old. 

The  following  table  shows  nursing  interval  and  the  num- 
ber of  feedings  in  24  hours  when  the  three-hour  interval  is 
used : x 

Nursings  Night 

Period                                 in  24      Interval  nursings 

hours,    by  day.  (10  p.m.  to 
6  a.m.). 
Hours. 

First  and  second  day 4                 6  1 

Third  day  to  4  months 7                  3  1 

4  to  7  months 6                 3  0 

7  to  12  months 5                 4  0 

SUPPLEMENTARY  FEEDING* 

There  is  apt  to  be  a  time,  after  the  departure  of  the  nurse, 
when  the  mother  is  just  getting  about  her  accustomed  duties 
and  is  somewhat  enfeebled  and  worried  with  the  care  of  the 
baby,  that  the  supply  of  milk  decreases.  It  is  at  this  or  some 
other  later  period  of  stress  that  many  babies  are  needlessly 
weaned.  Instead,  the  baby  should  be  put  to  breast  with  un- 
failing persistence  at  regular  intervals,  no  matter  how  little 
he  gets,  since  every  mouthful  of  breast  milk  is  important  to 
him.  It  is  the  tendency  of  the  breasts  to  cease  to  secrete 
milk  when  suction  is  discontinued,  and  it  is  essential  to  a 
continuance  of  the  supply  that  it  be  constantly  drawn  upon. 
The  mother  should  be  encouraged  to  eat  more  nourishing 
food,  such  as  milk,  cream,  eggs,  meat,  and  good  bread,  and 
to  take  a  larger  amount  of  fluM  food.  Eaw  eggs  beaten  up 
and  added  to  milk  agree  well  with  many  persons.  Even  if 
the  amount  of  milk  diminishes  until  the  baby  gets  little  or 
none,  it  may  often  be  reestablished  by  patient  and  constant 
effort,  provided  the  mother  does  not  worry,  but  rather  strives 
in  every  way  to  build  herself  up  by  good  food,  out-of-door 
life,  and  pleasant  surroundings,  in  all  of  which  she  should 

l  The  Care  and  Feeding  of  Children.   1914,  L.  Emmett  Holt,  M.D. 


INFANT  FEEDING  431 

have  the  help  of  her  family.  Meanwhile  the  baby  musi  be 
given  additional  food. 

WHAT  TO  FEED* 

This  supplementary  food  should  be  cows'  milk,  adapted  to 
the  age  of  the  infant,  given  by  bottle,  using  a  nipple  with  a 
very  small  hole  lest  the  baby,  finding  it  easier  to  nurse  the 
bottle,  will  not  suckle  the  breast  with  sufficient  vigor  to  give 
it  the  required  stimulation. 

HOW  MUCH  TO  FEED* 

In  order  to  determine  how  much  breast  milk  he  is  getting, 
and  therefore  how  much  supplementary  food  is  needed,  the 
baby  should  be  weighed,  without  making  any  change  in  the 
clothing,  before  and  after  each  nursing  in  24  hours  and  the 
results  carefully  set  down.  At  the  end  of  this  period  it  will 
be  possible,  by  adding  the  various  amounts  together,  to  see 
exactly  how  much  milk  the  baby  has  had  and  from  this  to 
determine  to  what  extent  the  mother's  milk  needs  to  be  sup- 
plemented. In  this  situation  the  help  and  care  of  a  good 
doctor  are  especially  needed. 

The  g   should  be  similar  to  grocer's  scales,  having  a 

pan  or  basket  in  which  to  lay  the  baby,  and  should  weigh 
to  one-half  ounce.  Spring  scales  are  not  sufficiently  accurate 
for  tiiis  purpose. 

CAPACITY  OF  BABY'S  STOMACH 

Newly  l>orn   alxmt  1     ounce. 

At  1   month     about  2i  ounces. 

At  2  months    about  3i  ounces. 

from  then  on,  up  to  the  first  six  months,  the  gain  is  only 
fractional.  BO  that  at  that  time  it  is  barely  four  ounces. 

On.-  should  bear  in  mind  that  the  baby  often  craves  water, 
rather  than  milk,  and  should  always  be  offered  it  at  intervals. 
It  takes  in  this  way  one  and  one-half  ounces  or  more  each 
day,  usually  at  the  rate  of  two  teaspoonfuls  every  four  hours. 
This  .iter  tends  to  prevent  overfeeding.     It  is  a  . 


432  DIET  IN  SPECIAL  CONDITIONS 

plan  to  give  the  water  in  a  nursing  bottle,  as  in  this  way  the 
child  becomes  accustomed  to  its  use,  and  less  difficulty  is 
experienced  at  weaning  time,  or  when  breast  feeding  has  to 
be  partially  or  wholly  discontinued  for  any  reason. 

WEIGHT* 

In  order  to  determine  how  the  baby  is  thriving,  it  is  neces- 
sary to  weigh  him  at  stated  intervals  and  compare  the  results. 
The  average  baby  weighs  about  7  pounds  at  birth,  boys  being 
slightly  heavier  than  girls.  A  healthy  baby  may  weigh  as 
little  as  5  or  6  pounds  and  as  much  as  10  or  12  pounds,  but 
these  weights  are  unusual.  A  slight  falling  off  in  weight 
occurs  during  the  first  few  days  or  the  first  week  of  life, 
amounting  to  a  few  ounces  or  as  much  as  a  pound,  but  this 
loss  is  promptly  regained  in  from  4  to  10  days,  and  from 
that  time  the  baby  should  show  a  constant  gain  in  weight. 
During  the  first  month  the  daily  gain  should  average  about 
three-fourths  of  an  ounce;  at  7  months,  about  one-half  ounce 
a  day;  and  at  1  year,  one-fourth  of  an  ounce  a  day.  The 
average  baby  gains  about  l1/^  pounds  a  month  for  the  first 
six  months  and  one  pound  a  month  from  that  time  to  the 
end  of  the  first  year,  doubles  its  weight  at  about  5  or  6 
months,  and  trebles  it  at  the  end  of  the  first  year.  A  dimin- 
ishing weight  demands  careful  attention.  If  there  is  a  loss 
in  weight,  and  especially  if  it  is  accompanied  with  other 
symptoms  of  illness,  a  good  doctor  should  be  consulted  at 
once.  If  these  conditions  occur  in  the  heat  of  summer,  the 
physician  will  make  any  change  in  the  diet  with  very  great 
caution,  taking  pains  not  to  increase  the  food  to  the  extent 
of  producing  diarrhea. 

A  very  rapid  increase  in  weight  is  not  to  be  desired.  The 
ideal  in  baby  feeding  is  not  to  produce  a  fat  baby,  but  rather 
a  proportionately  nourished  one.  It  is  comparatively  easy 
to  grow  fat,  but  it  is  a  harder  and  slower  process  to  grow 
muscle,  bone,  blood,  and  nerve  tissue.  The  majority  of  moth- 
er- feel  thai  it'  they  have  a  fat,  ivd-cheeked  baby  it  is  evi- 
dence they  are  giving  the  best  sort  of  care,  but  this  is  not 


INFANT  FEEDING  133 

always  true.  Some  of  the  well-advertised  infant  foods  pro- 
duce just  this  kind  of  babies,  bul  the  later  development  Bhows 
that  the  food  was  deficient  in  Borne  of  the  important  element 
needed  for  the  symmetrical  development  of  all  parts  of  the 
body,  and  weakness  of  some  part  or  some  later  deficiency  of 
health  may  be  the  first  indication  that  such  babies  were  not 
properly  1V<1.  A  perfect  baby  does  not  have  the  outlines  of 
his  musi  les  obliterated  by  wads  and  cushions  of  fat.  He  is 
alert,  springy.  The  flesh  is  hard  to  pressure,  not  soft  and 
flabby.  His  color  is  pinkish,  save  when  the  cheeks  have  been 
reddened  by  the  cold  or  heat.  A  leading  English  authority 
on  infant  rare  declares  that  in  his  opinion  "  it  is  practically 
impossible  for  any  infant  to  put  on  more  than  6  or  8  ounces 
of  good  nitrogenous  tissue  in  one  week,  and  very  few  can 
put  on  as  much."1  Bottle-fed  hahies  should  be  watched  with 
particular  rare  as  to  their  weight  in  summer.  It  is  better  to 
have  litth  or  n<>  gain  during  the  excessive  heat  than  to  upset 
the  digestion  by  overfeeding  designed  to  keep  the  baby  gain- 
ing. 

HOW  TO  WEIGH  THE  BABY* 

Undress  the  baby  completely.  Put  a  soft  cloth  in  the  pan 
of  the  scales,  and  lay  the  baby  on  it  ;  or  wrap  the  baby  in  a 
blanket,  if  the  room  is  not  warm.  Weigh  carefully  and  write 
down  the  result.  Remove  the  baby,  weigh  the  blanket  or 
cloth,  and  subtract  this  amount  from  the  first  weight. 

When  weighing  the  baby  before  and  after  nursings  to  de- 
termine the  amount  of  breast  milk  he  is  receiving,  do  Dot  un- 
-  him,  but  weigh  both  times  in  exactly  the  same  clothing. 
If  the  diaper  becomes  wet  or  -oiled  meantime,  do  aot  change 
it  until  after  the  weight  has  been  taken. 

ARTIFICIAL  FEEDING* 

The  term  "artificial  feeding"  refers,  in  common  accept- 
ance, to  the  method  of  feeding  which  must  be  employed  when 
a  ha  r  any  reason,  denied  breast   milk,  because  any 

1  Eri<-    Priuiiard.   M.D..   Infant    Education,    Londoi  1- 


434  DIET  IN  SPECIAL  COXDITIONS 

other  method  of  feeding  a  young  baby  than  at  its  mother's 
breast  is  truly  artificial. 

DIFFERENCE  IN  COMPOSITION  BETWEEN  HUMAN 
AND  COW'S  MILK 

Cow's  milk  has  a  larger  protein  content  than  human  milk, 
and  is  richer  in  mineral  matter.  Human  milk  has  a  larger 
sugar  content  and  therefore  a  somewhat  sweeter  taste.  The 
fat  content  of  the  two  kinds  of  milk  is  about  the  same,  and 
this  is  also  true  of  the  total  solids.  The  following  table  shows 
the  average  composition  of  the  two  kinds  of  milk: 

Human  Cow's 

Water    '  87%  87% 

Total  solids   13%  13% 

Fatty  matter    4%  4% 

Lactose   7%         ■       5% 

Protein    (see  second  table) 1.5%  3.3% 

Mineral  matter .      0.2%  0.7r> 

The  fat  of  cow's  milk  differs  with  the  breed  of  milch  cow, 
and  may  be  as  low  as  2  per  cent,  or  3  per  cent.  The  fat  in 
human  milk  is  quite  constant  in  amount,  but  the  protein 
content  may  vary  from  1  per  cent,  to  2  per  cent.,  the  1.5  per 
cent,  in  the  table  being  an  average. 

Human  milk,  in  comparison  with  cow's  milk,  is  very  poor 
in  casein,  but  rich  in  lactalbumin  and  hence,  when  coagulated, 
does  not  form  large  curds  like  cow's  milk.  The  relations 
between  casein  and  lactalbumin  in  the  two  kinds  of  milk  are 
shown  in  the  following  table: 

Human  Cow's 

Total   protein    1.50  3.30 

Casein     50  3.00 

Lactalbumin     1.00  .50 

The  high  protein  content  and  large  proportion  of  casein 
in  cow's  milk  are  advantageous  to  the  calf,  with  its  rapid 
rale  of  growth,  and  complex  system  of  stomachs  in  which 
large  curds  can  be  completely  digested;  but  for  the  more 
-lowly   growing   baby,   whose  digestion  is  largely  intestinal, 


INFANT  Ft:  EDI  Mi  t35 

the  proportion  of  protein  and  the  character  of  the  curd  must 
be  modified.  The  fal  of  mother's  milk  contains  more  olein 
and  more  phbsphoiized  fat  (lecithin)  than  cow's  milk.  The 
lactose  is  chemically  the  same.  Freshly  drawn  cow's  milk  is 
neutral  or  amphoteric  in  reaction  to  litmus.  Basic  elements 
predominate  in  both  cow's  and  human  milk,  and  hence  they 
are  both  technically  alkaline.  The  acidity  of  cow's  milk  to 
certain  indicator-  is  due  to  the  presence  of  acid  salts,  such  as 
acid  calcium  phosphate. 

On  standing,  true  acid  is  formed  by  the  action  of  lactic 
acid  bacteria  upon  the  lactose.  For  this  reason,  cow's  milk 
frequently  reacts  acid  to  litmus.  Breast  milk  is  practically 
>terile. 

MILK* 

Wide  experience  has  shown  that  fresh  cows'  milk  is  the 
Btitute  for  breast  milk.  This  milk  should  be  the 
purest  and  cleanest  possible;  it  should  be  the  product  of  a 
tuberculin-tested  herd,  one  that  is  healthy,  well  fed,  properly 
housed  and  cared  for,  and  milked  by  clean  milkers  into  steril- 
ized utensils.  The  milk  should  be  bottled  and  cooled  at  the 
dairy  and  delivered  to  the  consumer  in  sealed  bottles.  The 
milk  commonly  sold  from  open  cans,  known  as  "  loose  "  or 
"  dipped  "  milk,  should  never  be  given  to  a  baby. 

Certified  Milk.     In  certain  places  it  is  possible  to  obtain 

what  is  known  as  "certified  "  milk,  which  is  fresh,  clean,  pure. 

normal    milk    of   uniform    composition    and    highest    quality 

obtained  from  healthy  cows  and  produced  and  handled  under 

ipervision  of  a  medical  milk  commission,  with  special 

sanitary  precautions.     Although  the  amount  of  certified  milk 

ft  far  to«>  small,  the  demand  for  it  i-  steadily  increasing. 

A-  Boon  as  mother-  become  convinced  of  the  infinite  advan- 

tag    of  having  a  supply  of  raw  milk  whose  quality  is  guaran- 

.   arc  quite  n-<\<\\-  to  pay  the  additional  cost.     This 

milk  b   3  to  cost  about  16  cents  a  quart;  bul  compared 

with  the  cost  of  the  illness  due  to  tin-  use  of  unclean  milk, 

this  is  not  to  be  considered.     There  can  be  no  doubt  diat  the 


436  DIET  IN  SPECIAL  CONDITIONS 

use  of  certified  milk  has  been  a  great  factor  in  the  reduction 
of  deaths  from  infantile  diarrhea  in  recent  years.  The  Amer- 
ican Association  of  Milk  Commissions  publishes  literature 
on  the  subject.  The  secretary  may  be  addressed  at  the  Ortz 
Building,  Cincinnati,  Ohio. 

Heating  or  Cooking  Milk.  When  certified  milk  can  not  be 
had,  or  some  other  milk  known  to  be  clean,  it  is  safer  to  heat 
that  which  is  used.  Bad  milk  may  look  clean  and  may  taste 
and  smell  sweet,  since  disease  germs  do  not  reveal  their  pres- 
ence by  the  ordinary  tests.  It  is  very  difficult  to  insure  the 
cleanliness  of  the  general  milk  supply,  and  since  it  seems 
impossible  to  be  certain  that  the  milk  is  always  perfectly 
clean,  it  is  necessary  to  kill  these  germs  by  some  process 
of  heating  before  using  the  milk  for  young  babies,  or  for  any 
babies,  in  the  heat  of  summer.  These  processes,  however,  do 
not  make  good  milk  out  of  bad,  nor  clean  milk  out  of  that 
which  is  dirty;  they  merely  make  a  poor  thing  a  little  less 
dangerous,  and  emphasize  the  necessity  for  raising  the  stand- 
ard of  local  milk  production. 

Breed  of  Cows.  Authorities  recommend  the  herd  milk  of 
Ilolstein  or  ordinary  grade  cows  for  infant  feeding,  as  such 
milk  has  a  more  nearly  proper  percentage  of  fat  than  others. 
If  one  is  obliged  to  use  milk  having  a  high  percentage  of  fat, 
such  as  that  from  Jersey  or  Guernsey  cows,  some  part  of  the 
fat  should  be  removed  before  making  up  the  feedings.1 

Care  of  the  Milk.  One  of  the  reasons  why  cows'  milk  is 
not  always  a  safe  food  is  that  it  is  very  readily  infected  with 
germs,  some  of  which  may  make  the  baby  sick.  These  germs 
limit iply  with  astonishing  rapidity  when  the  milk  is  allowed 
to  stand  for  any  length  of  time  at  a  moderate  temperature, 
I  mi  i  do  not  nourish  if  the  milk  is  kept  very  cold.  The  milk 
should  never  be  left  standing  on  the  doorstep  in  the  sun,  nor 
in  a  warm  kitchen,  but  should  be  put  in  the  ice  box  as  soon 
as  it  is  delivered.  It  must  be  kept  covered,  protected  from 
dust  and  Hies,  not  left  standing  in  shallow,  open  pans  nor  put 

i  Milk    and    its    Relation    to    the    Public    Health,    Hygienic    Laboratory    Bull. 
Wash.   D.   C. 


INFANT  FEEDING  43? 

into  the  refrigerator  in  pitchers  or  open  dishes,  as  it  is  very 

readily  contaminated  by  other  food-.  Milk  should  be  kept  in 
glass  jars  or  bottles  which  are  made  sterile  by  boiling  before 
being  filled.  It'  the  milk  is  sour,  or  shows  a  sediment  in  the 
bottom  of  the  bottle,  ir  i>  not  tit  to  give  to  the  baby. 

.1  Homemade  Ice  H<>.r.  An  ice  box  to  keep  the  baby's 
feedings  cold  for  24  hours,  can  be  made  at  home  for  very 
small  cost,  as  follows:  Procure  a  wooden  box  about  18  inches 
square,  the  same  depth;  put  a  layer  of  sawdust  3  inches  thick 
in  the  bottom  of  the  box;  fill  in  with  sawdust  around  a  10- 
quart  tin  pail  or  a  section  of  10-inch  galvanized  pipe  which 
occupies  the  middle  of  the  box.  Inside  this  pail  or  pipe 
place  another  slightly  smaller  pail,  which  is  to  hold  the  ice 
and  the  bottles.  This  inner  pail  should  be  covered,  and  the 
outer  box  tightly  closed  by  a  wooden  cover  lined  with  several 
thicknesses  of  newspaper.  The  inner  pail  should  be  taken 
out  each  morning  to  be  emptied  and  cleaned.  This  little 
device  will  keep  cool  with  5  cents'  worth  of  ice  for  24  hours 
or  even  longer.  When  feeding  time  comes,  the  box  is  opened, 
one  bottle  is  taken  out,  and  the  box  is  quickly  closed  again. 

HOW  TO  FEED  THE  BABY 

WHAT  TO  FEED* 

Leading  authorities  differ  so  widely  on  various  points  con- 
nected with  this  subject  that  no  directions  can  be  given  which 
will  meet  with  general  agreement.  A  few  of  the  fundamental 
points  are  given  here,  but  whenever  possible  the  mother  should 
confer  with  a  good  doctor  regarding  an  artificially  fed  infant. 

The  only  proper  artificial  food  is  cows'  milk,  suitably  mod- 
to  suit  the  child's  age  and  development.  Some  babies 
have  peculiarities,  and  with  them  rules  can  not  be  closely 
followed :  but  with  most,  if  proper  rules  are  followed  from 
the  outset,  there  will  be  comparatively  little  trouble.  The 
advice  of  a  good  doctor  should  be  sought  and  followed.  It 
is  most  unwise  for  the  mother  to  experiment  with  different 
foods  or  different  mixtures,  or  to  try  to  feed  her  baby  by  the 
adrice  of  her  neighbor-. 


438  DIET  IN  SPECIAL  CONDITIONS 

GENERAL  PRINCIPLES  OF  MILK  MODIFICATIONS 

It  must  be  constantly  borne  in  mind  that  anything  but 
mother's  milk  is  a  foreign  substance  in  the  stomach  of  the. 
child,  and  even  to  make  a  mixture  agreeing  in  chemical  com- 
position with  the  natural  food  is  not  to  insure  success.  The 
general  principles  must  be  applied  in  a  special  way  to  each 
individual  case. 

The  first  step  in  modification  is  the  dilution  of  the  protein. 
Few  new-born  infants  can  digest  pure  cow's  milk.  Some 
require  more  dilution  than  others.  Where  the  digestive  pow- 
ers are  unknown,  it  is  wise  to  begin  with  a  low  strength 
and  advance  as  rapidly  as  the  condition  of  the  child  will  per- 
mit. From  !/4  to  1  per  cent,  protein  is  commonly  recom- 
mended for  the  early  weeks. 

The  second  step  is  the  adjustment  of  the  fat.  Individual 
infants  differ  in  their  tolerance  of  fat  as  of  protein.  But 
inasmuch  as  the  chemical  and  physical  differences  are  not  as 
great  in  the  case  of  fat,  it  is  usually  not  necessary  to  reduce 
it  below  2  per  cent.,  and  it  should  approximate  the  proportion 
in  mother's  milk  as  rapidly  as  possible. 

When  whole  milk  is  diluted,  if  more  than  one  volume  of 
water  be  added,  the  percentage  of  fat  is  less  than  two,  and 
for  greater  fat  content,  fat  must  be  added  in  the  form  of 
cream.  Since  it  is  difficult  to  get  the  right  percentage  in 
this  way,  it  is  customary  to  select  a  milk  with  such  a  ratio 
between  the  protein  and  fat  that  diluting  one  to  the  desired 
strength  dilutes  the  other  also  to  the  required  degree  and  is 
known  as  the  Top  Milk  Method.  This  is  accomplished  by 
taking  the  upper  layers  of  milk  which  has  been  standing 
five  hours  or  more  for  the  cream  to  rise.  The  upper  lay- 
ers have  much  fat  and  little  protein ;  the  lower,  much  pro- 
tein and  little  fat,  and  the  adjustment  is  readily  made  by 
taking  a  certain  number  of  ounces  for  dilution.  In  the 
laboratory,  the  exact  fat  and  protein  content  can  be  deter- 
mined by  direct  analysis. 

The  third  step  in  modification  is  the  adjustment  of  the 


INFAST  FEEDING  439 

milk  sugar.     This  can  usually  be  given  of  the  full  strength 

found  in  mother's  milk  (\  per  cent.).  Since  lactose  com- 
mercially prepared  from  cow's  milk  is  of  the  same  composi- 
tion as  that  in  mother's  milk,  it  is  only  necessary  to  know 
the  percentage  already  present  in  the  mixture  to  be  fed,  and 
then  add  sufficient  to  make  the  desired  strength. 

Besides  these  three  main  steps  in  artificial  feeding,  we  may 
have  as  a  further  consideration  the  selection  of  a  diluent. 
Water  is  the  first  choice,  but  to  aid  in  the  modification  of 
tlie  character  of  the  curd,  cereal  waters  or  gruels,  lime  water, 
proprietary  foods,  etc.,  are  sometimes  prescribed.  Carefully 
prepared,  and  regarded  mainly  as  dilutents  and  not  as  sub- 
stitutes for  milk,  the  cereals  and  prepared  foods  are  often 
useful  aids.  Lime  water  causes  the  mucin  of  the  milk  to 
swell,  and  tends  to  send  the  curd  in  soft  condition  into  the 
intestines.  It  is  also  beneficial  as  a  corrective  of  constipa- 
tion. 

THE  CHARACTER  OF  THE  MILK  MAY  BE  ALTERED, 
CHEMICALLY 

1.  It  may  be  predigested,  in  which  case  there  is  no  casein 
to  curdle. 

"  Peptonisation "  is  accomplished  by  the  use  of  commer- 
cial trypsin  (pancreatic  extract,  and  sodium  bicarbonate). 
Put  the  mixture  into  milk  at  body  temperature  32°  C.  Heat 
for  approximately  two  hours,  and  arrest  the  process  at  the 
partial  peptonisation  stage  since  peptonised  milk  is  bitter. 
This  modification  relieves  the  stomach  of  practically  all  its 
work,  but  should  be  made  use  of  for  short  periods  only. 

.'.  Sodium  bicarbonate  can  be  used.  Sodium  citrate  is 
available  for  the  same  purpose.  Milk  of  magnesia  also 
changes  the  acidity  of  the  stomach. 

3.  "  Protein  milk "  for  emergency  cases,  is  made  in  the 
following  way :  A  quart  of  fresh  milk  is  curdled  with  rennet, 
using  one  junket  tablet  for  the  quart.  Bleep  the  milk  at  body 
temperature  for  half  an  hour;  then  filter  through  cheese 
cloth,  and  discard  the  whey.     Mix  the  curd  with  a  pint  of 


440  DIET  IN  SPECIAL  CONDITIONS 

water;  beat,  and  rub  through  a  very  fine  sieve  two  or  three 
times.  Finally  add  a  pint  of  buttermilk.  This  preparation 
has  a  fuel  value  of  350  calories  to  the  quart,  and  the  per- 
centage composition  is  as  follows : 

Protein,  3%.     Fat,  2%%.     Carbohydrate.   1%%.     Ash,    y2%. 
WHAT  DILUTION  TO  USE 

The  degree  of  dilution  varies  with  the  age  of  the  child. 
Advance  is  made  from  low  strength  to  higher  as  rapidly  as 
the  child  is  able  to  digest  stronger  food.  Since  it  is  usually 
necessary  to  begin  with  a  formula  weaker  than  mother's  milk, 
it  is  desirable  that  stronger  formulae  be  given  as  soon  as 
practicable  to  compensate  for  this  early  loss.  This  is  partic- 
ularly true  as  regards  mineral  constituents.  On  diluted 
cow's  milk,  the  child  gets  less  iron  and  phosphorus  than  in 
mother's  milk,  and  while  cow's  milk  is  rich  in  calcium,  it  is 
doubtful  whether  this  is  as  perfectly  utilized  as  that  in  human 
milk. 

Whenever  there  are  signs  of  indigestion,  such  as  vomiting 
or  frequent  loose  stools,  the  mother  should  dilute  the  food, 
or  omit  it  altogether,  giving  nothing  but  a  little  plain  boiled 
water  until  the  doctor  sees  the  baby. 

MODIFIED  WHOLE  MILK 

The  following  directions  for  feeding  the  baby  modified 
whole  milk  have  been  prepared  by  a  committee  of  the  Ameri- 
can Medical  Association.1 

Beginning  on  the  third  day,  the  average  baby  should  be  given  3 
ounces  of  milk  daily,  diluted  with  7  ounces  of  water.  To  this  should 
be  added  1  tablespoonful  of  lime  water  and  2  level  teaspoonfuls  of 
sugar.     This   should  be  given   in   seven   feedings. 

At  1  week  the  average  child  requires  5  ounces  of  milk  daily,  which 
should  be  diluted  with  10  ounces  of  water.  To  this  should  be  added 
\Y>  even  tablespoonfuls  of  sugar  and  1  ounce  of  lime  water.     This 

i  "  Save  the  Babies,"  prepared  for  use  in  Baby  Health  Conferences  for  the 
Committee  on  Public  Health  Education  Among  Women,  by  Drs.  L.  Emmett  Holt 
and  Henry  L.  K.  Shaw.  Council  on  Health  and  Public  Instruction,  American 
Medical   Association. 


INFANT  FEEDING  441 

should  be  given  in  Beven  feedings.    The  milk  should  be  increased  by 
one-half  ounce  about  every  four  days.     The  water  should  be  increased 

by  one-half  ounce  every  eight  days. 

At  A  months  the  average  child  requires  16  ounces  of  milk  daily, 
which  should  be  diluted  with  16  ounces  of  water.  To  this  should 
he  added  A  tahlespoonfuls  of  sugar  and  2  ounces  of  lime  water.  This 
should  he  given  in  six  feedings.  The  milk  should  be  increased  by 
one-half  ounce  every  >i\  days.  The  water  should  be  reduced  by  one- 
half  ounce  about  every  two  weeks. 

At  (!  months  the  average  child  requires  24  ounces  of  milk  daily, 
which  should  he  diluted  with  12  ounces  of  water.  To  this  should  be 
added  2  ounces  of  lime  water  and  A  even  tahlespoonfuls  of  sugar. 
This  should  be  given  in  live  feedings.  The  amount  of  milk  should 
lie  increased  by  one-half  ounce  every  week.  The  milk  should  be 
increased  only  if  the  child  is  hungry  and  digesting  his  food  well.  It 
should  not  be  increased  unless  he  is  hungry,  nor  if  he  is  suffering 
from  indigestion  even  though  he  seems  hungry. 

At  !>  months  the  average  child  requires  30  ounces  of  milk  daily, 
which  should  he  diluted  with  10  ounces  of  water.  To  this  should  be 
added  2  even  tahlespoonfuls  of  sugar  and  2  ounces  of  lime  water.  This 
should  he  given  in  five  feedings.  The  sugar  added  may  be  milk  sugar 
or  if  this  cannot  be  obtained  cane  (granulated)  sugar  or  maltose 
i  malt  sugar).     At  first  plain  water  should  be  used  to  dilute  the  milk. 

At  3  months.  Bometimes  earlier,  a  weak  barley  water  may  be  used 
in  the  place  of  plain  water:  it  is  made  of  one-half  level  tablespoonful 
of  barley  flour  to   1(5  ounces  of  water  and  cooked  for  20  minutes. 

At  6  months  the  barley  flour  may  be  increased  to  1*4  even  table- 
spoonfuls  cooked  in  the  12  ounces  of  water. 

At  !>  months  the  barley  flour  may  be  increased  to  3  level  tahlespoon- 
fuls cooked  in  the  8  ounce?  of  water. 

Sugar  is  added  to  the  food  not  to  sweeten  it  but  to  furnish 
a  necessary  foodstuff.  Ordinarily  it  is  much  better  to  avoid 
using  it.  Physicians  differ  as  to  the  best  sugar  for  use  in  in- 
fant feeding.  Mali  Bugar  gives  very  good  results,  and  several 
preparations  which  contain  dextrin  as  well  as  maltose  are 
on  the  market,  but  are  expensive.  Milk  sugar  is  also  expen- 
sive, and  some  physicians  believe  that  it  has  a  greater  tendency 
to  upset  the  baby.  Cane  Bugar  i-  the  cheapest  form  of  sugar, 
and  many  babies  Beem  to  digesl  it  very  well.  One  objection 
to  the  use  of  cane  sugar  i-  that  the  baby  quickly  becomes 
accustomed  to  the  sweei  taste,  making  it  difficult  later  to 
induce  him  to  eat  unsweetened  foods. 


442 


DIET  IN  SPECIAL  CONDITIONS 


TOP  MILK  METHOD  IN  INFANT  FEEDING 
L.  Emmett  Holt  » 


Fig.  2.  Chapin's 
dipper  for  re- 
moving   the    up- 

Fig.  1.     The  percentage  of  fat  in  different  layers       per      layers      of 

of  milk.         milk. 

The  top  milk  method  has  been  greatly  simplified  by  Dr. 
Holt  and  the  following  suggestions  will  be  helpful  in  apply- 
ing it: 

"Milk  bottled  at  dairies  should  be  allowed  to  stand  after 
it  is  received  for  at  least  two  hours  before  removing  the  top- 
milk.  This  may  be  done  with  a  siphon,  spoon  or  small, 
special  dipper;  pouring  off  is  not  accurate. 

It  is  unnecessary  in  practice  to  have  a  top-milk  which 
contains  more  than  7  per  cent,  fat;  while  it  is  desirable  at 
times  to  obtain  milk  which  is  practically  fat-free.  It  is  also 
desirable  to  know  the  percentage  of  fat  that  is  obtained  when 
one  uses  various  quantities  from  the  top  or  bottom  of  a  quart 
<»!'  milk.  These  values  are  only  approximate,  but  if  the  top- 
milk  is  carefully  removed,  are  sufficiently  accurate  for  practi- 
cal purposes.  These  may  be  obtained  from  average  herd 
milk  or  very  rich  milk  as  given  on  page  444   (from  4%  and 


i  Holt    and    Howl. mil 
.    Yo-'k     1"H 


Diseases  of   Infancy  and  Childhood."      D.   Appleton 


INFANT  FEEDING 


443 


/  g  W 
>  -  E   ~ 

oSag 


—  — 
C  H 

- 
- 


y     tO     O     IQ     — ' 

o  o  o  o 
o         e  ©  ©  so 
^         d  ic*  w  ci 

<M 

T  - 

©   o 

R 

y     2~     IQ     rt 

1— I 

a        ©  ©  ©  o 
(N  io"  oi  oi 

O 

o 

H  CQ  lO  Ol  H 

? 

2.00 

5.50 

.80 

2.25 

CO 

oo 

©   c 

O 

0 

S  <M  t-   ^h   (M 

£-S                                    C         O         ©         O 

c5      t  ©  *  - 

<n  ©        oa 

t- 

00 

iQ    c 
o 

B 

>   —  c:         *>i 

20 

2.20 

G.50 

1.90 

© 

00 

*     § 

O    O            ?! 

20 

2.00 
6.50 

1.75 

IQ 
IQ 

3 

months 

20 

1.80 
6.60 

1.60 

IC 

00 

£ 

~   GO   <N       •   <N 

20 

1.60 

6.00 

1.40 

CO 

oo 

J' 
^  t^    n       •    ?| 

20 

1.40 
6.00 

1 .20 

»Q 

—     - 

M  tD  ^          M 

1 

20 

1  20 
6.70 

1.00 

in 

Number  of  formula 
Milk    (ounces)     .  .  . 
\\  iter  i  ounces)   . . 
•  Qniel   i ounces) 
Bugar  of  milk    . . . 
i  K\  en  tablespoons  I 

— 

i',ii .  per  <rnt    .... 

Sugar,    per    cent. 

Starch,  per  cent.  . 
Protein,  per  cent. 

S3 

a 

O 

m 

u 

0 

Age  (approxima 

444  DIET  IN  SPECIAL  CONDITIONS 

From  1   quart  4%   milk  From   1    quart  5%   milk 

Upper  16  oz.  has  7%  fat  Upper  20  oz. 

20    "      "  6%  "  "       24    " 

24    "      "  5%  "  all  the  milk 

All  the  milk     "  4%  "  Rest    after    removing    top    2    oz. 
Rest   after   removing  top 

•1  oz.   has  3%  "  "         "               "            "      3    oz. 
"      after   removing   top 

4  oz.  has  2%  "  "         "               "            "      5    oz. 
"      after   removing  top 

8  oz.  has  1%  "  "         "               "            "      8    oz. 

Fat-free  milk  can  be  obtained  only  by  the  removal  of  the  cream  by 
a  separator. 

FORMULAS  FROM  WHOLE   (4  PER  CENT)   MILK 

Giving  Approximate  Percentage  Composition  and  Caloric  Value 

Per  Ounce 

Dr.  L.  Emmett  Holt 

Two  formulas  are  used  of  which  the  second  differs  from 
the  first  in  having  a  larger  fat  percentage.  The  first  formula 
is  given  in  full.     Note  table  I  Page  443. 

The  second  formula  is  sometimes  substituted  for  the  first. 
after  the  first  few  weeks.  The  upper  half  of  a  quart  bottle 
of  milk,  i.e.  a  7  per  cent,  top-milk  is  substituted  for  whole 
milk.  The  child  receives  from  a  third  to  a  fourth  less  milk 
than  in  the  first  formula.  The  second  formula  may  be  used 
up  to  the  seventh  or  eighth  month,  when  the  child  returns  to 
whole  milk  with  gruel  addition  The  second  formula  may  be 
used  by  any  child  who  can  assimulate  the  increased  fat  per- 
centage. The  top-milk  formula  should  never  be  used  for 
children  with  weak  digestion. 

TOP  MILK  MODIFICATION 

The  following  table  from  Dr.  Holt's  book  shows  the  amount 
of  food  required  by  the  average  healthy  baby  at  the  given 

.in<l  the  proper  interval  between   feedings: 


IX FA  XT  FEEDING 


445 


TABLE  II 
Schedule  for  Feeding   Healthy   In  fonts   During   the   First    Year 


M 

0/    ^_^ 

J  i 

Age 

3       . 
B    P4 

CO 

be 

-P    B 

t     § 

-2  n 

B    a> 
c  _r 

~    B 
-*    B 
<N    B 

Amoun 
1  feedi 
oz. 

Amoun 
24  hou 
oz. 

2d  to  7th  day   

3 

2 

7 

1-2 

7-14 

2d,    3d    and    4th    weeks 

3 

2 

7 

2V2-4i/o 

18-32 

2d  and  3d  months 

3 

2 

7 

3i/o-5 

24-35 

4th  and  5th  months    .  .  . 

3 

1 

6 

5-6 

30-36 

6th,  7th,  and  8th  months 

4 

1 

5 

61/0-714 

32 1 0-37 1,0 

Oth  and  10th  months  .  . 

4 

1 

5 

7-8 

35-40 

11th  and  12th  months  .  . 

4 

1 

.5 

8-9 

40-45 

The  interval  is  reckoned  from  the  beginning  of  one  feeding 
to  the  beginning  of  the  next.  Large  children  with  strong 
digestion  may  take  the  larger  quantities,  while -small  or  weak 
infants  should  take  the  smaller  amounts.  If  the  baby  either 
habitually  regurgitates  his  'food  or  leaves  some  milk  in  the 
bottle  each  time,  the  "interval  between  feedings  .should  be  in- 
creased. 

SIMPLE   METHOD   OF   CALCULATING   A   MILK    FORMULA    ON   A 
BASIS  OF  CALORIC  REQUIREMENTS 

Dr.  L.  Emmett  Holt 

This  is  based  on  the  experience  that  a  child  requires  IV2  oz. 
milk  for  each  pound  of  body-weight  An  infant  weighing  10 
pounds  therefore  requires  15  oz.  of  milk  in  24  hours.  Its 
caloric  requirements  are  45  to  the  pound  or  450  for  a  10  lb. 
child.  The  milk  alone  supplies  20  calories  per  oz.  or  300  in 
all.  To  secure  the  additional  150  fat,  sugar  or  starch  musl 
be  added.     One  ounce  of  sugar  gives  120  calorics;  I1  j 

L50.     The  amounl  of  diluenl  (water,  etc.)  to  be  added 
i-  calculated  from  the  Liquid  requirement  which  is  3  oz 


44G  DIET  IN  SPECIAL  CONDITIONS 

pound  for  the  early  and  2  oz.  for  the  later  months.  Thus  if 
a  10  lb.  child  requires  30  oz.  of  fluid  daily,  15  oz.  of  water  will 
have  to  be  added  to  the  15  oz.  of  milk. 

The  formula  will  therefore  be  as  follows  for  a  10  lb.  child: 

Milk         •  15  oz.  300  calories 

Sugar  1%  oz.  150 

Water  15  oz. 

Total  30  oz.  450  calories 

The  30  ounces  should  be  taken  in  7  feedings  of  41/4  oz.  each 
or  in  6  feedings  of  5  oz.  each. 

TABLE  III 
Calorie  Requirements 

1  month 400     7  feedings    4y2  oz.     Table  1  Formula     III 

2  months 500     7         "  4%    "  "       "         "  IV 

3  "         560     7  5  "      "        "  V 

6       "         640     5        "  7%    "         "      "        "         VIII 

0       "         740     5         "  7%    "         "      "        "  IX 

PREPARATION  OF  THE  FOOD  * 
Home  Modification 

Everything  that  is  to  be  used  in  the  preparation  of  the 
baby's  food,  including  the  hands  and  clothing  of  the  mother 
or  nurse,  must  be  absolutely  clean.  To  clean  the  utensils 
they  should  be  boiled  in  the  large  kettle  for  15  minutes  just 
before  using. 

Utensils.  Enameled  ware  or  aluminum  utensils  are  the 
safest  kind  to  use,  since  they  are  most  readily  kept  clean. 
They  should  be  used  exclusively  for  this  purpose.  The  fol- 
lowing articles  will  be  found  convenient : 

As  many  nursing  bottles  as  there  are  feedings  in  one  day. 

A  nipple  for  each  bottle. 

A  new  clean  cork  stopper  for  each  bottle. 

A  bottle  brush. 

A  graduated  measuring  glass. 

A  2-quarl  pitcher. 

A  funnel. 


INFANT  FEEDING  447 

A  long-handled  spoon  for  stirring  the  food. 

A  pail  or  kettle  for  pasteurizing  the  milk  and  sterilizing  the 
utensils. 

A  fork. 

A  tahlespoon. 

A  double  boiler  for  cooking  cereals. 

A  clinical  thermometer. 

A  bath  thermometer.  The  frame  being  wood,  which  per- 
mits the  thermometer  to  float. 

A  milk  thermometer. 

Bottles.  The  best  nursing  bottle  is  the  one  which  affords 
the  least  harbor  for  germs.  An  8-ounce  cylindrical  bottle 
having  the  scale  in  ounces  blown  in  the  side  is  most  con- 
venient, as  it  fits  readily  into  the  ice  box  and  the  pasteurizer. 
Nursing  bottles  with  a  neck  are  difficult  to  clean  and  require 
a  brush,  which  must  also  be  kept  clean.  If  the  neck  is  short, 
sloping  gradually  into  the  shoulder  the  construction  is  better 
than  bottles  with  long  necks,  or  abrupt  shoulder.  Nursing 
bottles  have  influence  on  baby  mortality;  therefore,  mothers 
should  use  the  nursing  bottle  which  is  safest  for  the  baby. 

CARE  OF  BOTTLES* 

New  bottles  should  be  annealed  by  placing  them  on  the 
stove  in  a  dishpan  of  cold  water  and  leaving  them  to  boil  .for 
20  minutes.  Allow  them  to  stay  in  the  water  until  it  is  cold. 
Bottles  thus  treated  will  not  readily  break  when  filled  with 
boiling  water  or  when  the  food  is  being  cooked  in  them. 

Each  bottle  should  be  emptied  as  soon  as  the  baby  has  fin- 
ished nursing,  then  rinsed  with  cold  water  and  left  standing, 
filled  with  water,  until  the  bottles  for  one  day's  feedings  have 
all  been  used.  At  a  convenient  time,  scrub  all  the  bottles 
with  hot  soapsuds,  using  the  bottle  brush  over  every  part  of 
the  inside.  Then  rinse  them  thoroughly  through  several 
waters  and  put  them  in  a  kettle  of  water  over  the  fire.  When 
the  water  has  boiled  for  15  minutes  the  bottles  will  be  steril- 
ized. 

Nipples.     A  conical  nipple  is  best,  since  it  can  be  readilv 


448  DIET  IN  SPECIAL  CONDITION* 

turned  inside  out  to  be  cleaned.  Nipples  attached  to  long 
rubber  tubes  should  never  be  used,  as  it  is  impossible  to  clean 
them.  They  are  so  dangerous  to  infant  health  and  life  that 
the  sale  of  them  ought  to  be  prohibited  by  law.  The  hole  in 
the  nipple  should  be  just  large  enough  so  that  when  the  filled 
bottle  is  held  upside  down  the  milk  drops  rapidly.  If  the  hole 
is  large  enough  so  that  the  milk  runs  in  a  stream,  the  baby 
will  take  his  food  too  fast. 

Care  of  Nipples.  Nipples  need  special  care.  If  allowed 
to  soak  in  water  when  not  in  use  the  rubber  quickly  becomes 
spongy  and  disintegrates,  the  hole  grows  larger  and  larger, 
and  the  nipple  is  soon  unfit  for  use. 

Immediately  after  the  feeding  remove  the  nipple  and  rinse 
with  cold  or  warm  (not  hot)  water.  Eub  the  outside  with 
a  little  common  salt  to  remove  the  milk,  turn  the  nipple  in- 
side out,  rinse,  and  rub  with  salt;  rinse  again  and  boil  for 
five  minutes.  The  nipple  will  dry  at  once  when  removed 
from  the  boiling  water.  Place  in  a  dry  glass  jar  which  has 
been  boiled  and  screw  the  cover  on  tight.  Keep  from  the 
light*.  The  nipples  should  be  rinsed  in  boiled  water  just 
before  using. 

It  is  wise  always  to  have  extra  nipples  prepared,  as  they 
are  subject  to  many  accidents. 

tiow  to  Prepare  the  Feedings.  Take  the  milk  bottle  out 
of  the  ice  box,  rinse  with  boiled  water,  and  wipe  the  top  with 
a  clean  towel.  Next  remove  the  paper  cap  with  the  fork 
which  lias  just  been  boiled.  Then  pour  out  enough  milk  for 
the  day's  feedings,  measuring  the  amount  in  the  glass  grad- 
uate, and  empty  it  into  the  pitcher.  Measure  the  required 
amount  of  water  (using  cold  boiled  water)  in  the  same  way 
and  add  to  the  milk.  Measure  the  sugar  and  lime  water;  add 
these  to  the  milk  and  water  and  stir  well.  Then  take  as 
ma ii v  bottles  as  there  are  to  be  feedings  in  24  hours,  and  fill 
them  exactly  to  the  proper  depth  according  to  the  scale  blown 
in  the  bottle,  [f  the  materials  have  been  carefully  measured, 
the  bottles  will  be  filled  to  equal  depth.  Close  with  new. 
clean  bottle  eorks  m  preference  to  wads  of  cotton,  and  pas- 


INFANT  FEEDING  449 

teurize  or  sterilize  the  feedings  thus  prepared  in  accordance 
with  directions  that  follow. 

Pasteurizing.  This  process  consists  in  heating  the  milk 
to  145  degrees,  holding  it  there  for  some  time  (20  to  30  min- 
utes), and  then  cooling  it  rapidly  to  50  degrees.  The  use 
of  one  of  the  excellent  pasteurizers  and  sterilizers  in  the 
market  greatly  simplifies  this  part  of  the  work,  but  satis- 
factory results  can  be  attained  by  the  use  of  an  ordinary  pail 
or  kettle.  A  convenient  method  for  home  pasteurizing  is  as 
follows : 

Put  a  gallon  (4  quarts)  of  water  on  the  stove  in  a  kettle. 
When  the  water  is  boiling  hard,  remove  the  kettle  from  the 
stove  to  a  table  and  allow  it  to  stand  uncovered  for  10  min- 
utes;  then  put  the  filled  and  loosely  corked  bottles  into  the 
water,  cover  the  kettle,  and  allow  it  to  stand  covered  for  half 
an  hour.  At  the  end  of  this  time  remove  the  bottles,  cool 
rapidly  under  running  water,  and  put  in  the  ice  box  until 
needed.  Do  not  uncork  the  bottle  from  the  time  it  is  first 
closed  until  the  baby  is  to  be  fed. 

Boiling.  Fill  the  bottles  and  stand  them  in  a  kettle  of 
water  over  the  fire.  When  the  water  has  boiled  three-quarters 
of  an  hour  the  milk  will  have  been  sufficiently  heated;  or, 
when  more  convenient,  the  milk  may  be  simply  boiled  in  a 
clean  saucepan  for  three  minutes,  poured  into  sterilized  bot- 
tle-, and  then  cooled  rapidly  in  running  water. 

Xote:  It  is  well  to  put  a  wooden  rack  at  the  bottom  of 
the  receptacle  in  which  nursing  bottles  are  placed.  This 
will  protect  the  bottles  from  contact  with  the  iron  receptacle, 
or  tin.  whatever  is  used,  and  prevent  breakage. 

HOW  TO  GIVE  THE  BABY  THE  BOTTLE  * 

When  it  is  time  to  feed  the  bahy  take  the  cold  bottle  from 
the  ice;  do  not  pour  out  the  milk,  but  place  the  bottle,  -til! 
corked,  in  a  vessel  of  warm  water,  having  the  water  cover 
the  bottle  above  the  milk  line,  and  allow  the  water  to  heat. 
Do  not  allow  the  water  to  boil,  as  that  will  make  the  milk 


450     ■       DIET  IN  SPECIAL  CONDITIONS 

too  hot.  To  test  the  temperature  of  the  milk,  open  the  bot- 
tle and  drop  a  little  milk  on  the  inner  surface  of  the  arm. 
If  it  feels  comfortably  warm  to  the  mother's  skin  it  will  be 
right  for  the  baby.  If  it  has  been  -made  too  hot,  cool  the 
bottle  under  running  water.  The  mother  should  never  put 
The  nipple  in  her  own  mouth  to  test  the  temperature  of  the 
milk,  as  an  infection,  such  as  a  "  cold/'  might  easily  be  con- 
veyed in  this  way  from  mother  to  baby.  Put  on  one  of  the 
sterile  nipples  from  the  jar.  Handle  the  nipple  only  by  the 
neck,  and  do  not'touch  the  part  which  is  to  go  into  the  baby's 
mouth. 

Hold  the  baby  on  the  left  arm  in  the  same  position  as  for 
breast  feeding.  The  bottle  should  be  held  by  the  mother 
or  nurse  throughout  the  feeding.  It  must  be  presented  to 
the  baby  at  such  an  angle  that  the  neck  of  the  bottle  is  kept 
continually  filled  and  the  baby  is  able  to  grasp  the  nipple 
Bquarely.  The  feeding  should  be  finished  in  20  minutes.  If 
the  baby  eats  greedily,  withdraw  the  nipple  for  a  moment 
several  times  during  the  feeding.  If  he  is  sleepy,  keep  him 
awake  until  the  bottle  is  finished.  If,  in  spite  of  this,  he 
falls  asleep,  remove  the  bottle  and  do  not  give  another  until 
the  next  feeding  time.  Babies  like  to  nurse  a  little,  then 
sleep  a  little,  then  take  the  bottle  again ;  but  this  should  not 
be  allowed,  as  it  unduly  prolongs  the  feeding. 

NORMAL  FEEDING* 

If  the  baby  has  been  breast  fed  for  a  while  and  is  then  put 
on  cows'  milk,  it  is  wise,  until  he  has  become  somewhat 
accustomed  to  the  new  food,  to  use  a  weaker  mixture  at  first 
than  the  one  indicated  for  that  age.  The  food  can  be 
strengthened  every  few  days  if  necessary  until  it  suits  his 
age.  If  the  baby  shows  any  signs  of  disturbed  digestion  it 
is  wise  to  return  at  once  to  the  weaker  food  until  he  is  quite 
well  again  ;  if  he  seems  satisfied,  is  gaining  from  4  to  6  ounces 
a  week,  does  not  \omit,  and  has  normal  stools,  it  is  reason- 
ably certain  that  the  food  is  of  the  right  strength  and  quan- 
tity. 


INFANT  FEEDING  451 

UNDERFEEDING  * 

As  a  rule,  babies  are  overfed  rather  than  underfed.  But 
if  the  baby  cries  as  soon  as  the  bottle  is  taken  away,  and 
again  before  the  next  feeding  time,  a  careful  increase  mav 
be  made  day  by  day  toward  a  stronger  mixture,  stopping  at 
a  point  where  he  is  satistied. 

OVERFEEDING  * 

If  the  baby  sleeps  restlessly,  vomits  his  food,  or  has  loose 
bowel  movements,  it  usually  indicates  that  lie  is  being  fed 
too  much,  too  often,  or  that  his  food  is  stronger  than  he  can 
digest.  If  the  baby  is  breast  fed,  the  interval  between  nurs- 
ings should  be  lengthened  to  4  hours,  as  a  first  measure.  It 
is  wise  to  see  the  doctor,  when  possible.  For  bottle-fed  babies 
the  amount  of  the  day's  feeding  may  be  decreased  by  using 
one-half  of  the  usual  contents  of  each  bottle  until  the  dis- 
turbance has  subsided. 

DRINKING  WATER  * 

The  baby  needs  plenty  of  cool,  unsweetened  water  to  drink. 
It  is  safe  to  boil  all  the  drinking  water  for  a  baby,  which 
should  be  given  to  a  young  baby  lukewarm,  never  ice  cold. 
Never  put  sugar  or  anything  else  in  it.  Offer  it  to  the  baby 
between  feedings;  in  summer  especially  he  needs  to  drink 
frequently.  A  "  runabout "  baby  is  constantly  exercising 
while  awake  and  requires  a  great  deal  of  water.  Fretful 
babies,  especially  those  who  are  cutting  teeth,  are  often  quieted 
by  a  cool  drink. 

FEEDING  OF  OLDER  INFANTS 

Some  genera]  role* : 

1.  Unless  a  child  has  Loose  bowels,  he  should  be  gi^en  from 
1  to  3  tablespoonfuls  of  orange  juice  once  a  day  after  he  is 
about  5  or  6  months  old.  Y])  to  the  time  he  doubles  his 
weight,  he  has  enough  iron  stored  in  his  body  for  his  needs, 
but  after  that  he  needs  iron-bearing  food. 

2.  I  Feed  him  beef  juice,  beef  tea,  or  broths.     The 


4&2  DIET  IN  SPECIAL  CONDITIONS 

first  two  particularly,  are  too  high  in  flavor,  and  tend  to 
putrefaction  in  the  large  intestine. 

3.  After  the  twelfth  month  there  is  no  advantage  in  con- 
tinuing mother's  milk  which  by  that  time  has  deteriorated. 
Artificial  food  should  be  gradually  substituted,  and  a  single 
meal  fed  from  time  to  time  from  the  bottle.  A  baby  9 
months  old  may  at  first  have  to  try  a  formula  of  cow's  milk 
made  for  a  child  6  months  old  who  has  been  fed  artificially 
from  the  first ;  and  even  a  more  dilute  mixture  may  be  neces- 
sary for  a  while. 

4.  The  transition  period  comes  between  the  tenth  and 
fourteenth  month.  Milk  is  still  the  chief  food  during  the 
second  year,  but  the  baby  must  have  in  addition,  iron  from 
the  yolk  of  egg,  and  from  orange  juice  or  prune  pulp :  he 
must  also  have  food  for  developing  chewing  muscles  and 
teeth,  such  as  stale  bread,  toasted,  and  zwieback.  He  may 
also  have  thoroughly  cooked,  strained  cereal,  preferably  oat- 
meal. Other  solid  food  should  not  be  given  during  the  sec- 
ond year. 

5.  Feedings  must  be  regular:  the  digestive  tract  responds 
to  good  eating  habits. 

Good  hours  for  meals  are : 

First  feeding 6.30-  7        a.  m. 

Mid-morning  feeding 9.30-10        a.  m. 

Noon  feeding 11.30-12        a.  m. 

Afternoon  feeding 2.30-  3        p.  m. 

Evening  feeding   5      -  5.30  p.  M. 

Bed  at  six  o'clock. 

6.  During  the  third  year  milk  is  still  one  of  the  most 
important  of  the  child's  foods,  and  a  quart  should  be  allowed. 
( "rivals  need  no  longer  be  strained,  if  thoroughly  cooked;  the 
whole  egg  may  be  given,  although  the  yolk  is  still  the  more 
valuable  part;  stale  bread  is  still  used,  but  crackers  —  graham 
or  Uneedas  —  may  be  substituted  in  certain  meals.  Fruit 
juice,  and  dried  fruits  including  raisins,  dates,  and  figs  are 
valuable,  as  are  green  vegetables,  such  as  spinach,  peas,  and 
carrots.     Baked  potato  may  also  be  given. 


INFANT  FEEDING  453 

:.   In  thf  fourth  year,  vegetables  and  fruits  need  not  be 

strained,  and  cream  may  be  added  to  the  vegetables.,   Cab- 

cauliflower,  and  lettuce  must  not  be  given,  nor  should 

any  meat  be  fed  at  this  age.     It  is  not  desirable  to  give  it 

until  the  child  is  7  or  8  years  old. 

8.  Never  give  the  baby  or  young  child,  cakes,  candy,  dough- 
nuts, pastry,  fresh  breads,  griddlecakes,  sirups  or  molasses, 
pork  or  meat  of  any  kind,  bananas  or  any  overripe  fruit, 
pickles,  tea.  eoffee,  soda  water,  wine,  cider,  beer,  nor  tastes 
of  the  family  meals.  If  this  is  begun,  he  will  soon  demand 
a  taste  of  everything  he  sees,  and  his  appetite  for  the  simple 
diet  which  is  essential  at  this  age  will  be  quickly  destroyed. 

WEANING  • 

Weaning  is  the  process  whereby  the  baby  is  gradually  de- 
prived of  breast  milk.  It  should  proceed  slowly,  one-bottle 
feeding  being  substituted  for  one  breast  feeding  during  the 
dav  for  some  time,  then  two  bottles,  and  so  on  until  all  breast 
feeding  lias  been  done  away  with  and  the  baby  is  entirely 
weaned.  In  order  that  this  change  may  be  accomplished  with 
as  little  disturbance  as  possible,  one  bottle  feeding  may  he 
given  to  the  baby  in  24  hours  as  early  as  the  fifth  or  sixth 
month.  This  will  hardly  be  sufficient  to  upset  the  baby's 
•ion  and  yet  will  serve  to  accustom  him  to  the  taste  of 
strange  food  and  to  the  use  of  the  bottle  and  to  begin  the 
education  of  the  stomach  in  dealing  with  new  materials. 

When  to  ^Yf>an.  In  most  cases  the  baby  should  be  weaned 
by  the  end  of  the  first  year,  and  in  some  cases  from  one  to 
three  months  earlier,  depending  largely  upon  the  health  of 
the  baby,  the  amount  and  quality  of  the  breast  milk,  and  upon 
the  time  of  the  year.  It  is  unwise  to  wean  the  baby  in  the 
heat  of  summer  or  when  infant  illness  of  any  sort  is  epidemic. 
It  has  been  proved  over  and  over  again  that  breast  milk  will 
save  a  sick  baby's  life  and  restore  him  to  health  after  the 
strain  of  a  long  hot  summer,  and  that  often  there  is  no  other 
food  that  can  be  relied  upon  to  accomplish  the  same  result. 


454  DIET  IN  SPECIAL  CONDITIONS 

Therefore,  even  though  the  breast  milk  must  be  supplemented 
with  one  or  several  bottles,  it  is  wise  to  nurse  the  baby  through 
the  summer  so  that  the  breasts  will  not  cease  entirely  to  se- 
crete and  may  be  called  on  in  an  emergency.  If  the  baby  is 
weaned  at  10  months  or  earlier  h'e  may  be  fed  by  bottle;  if 
not  until  the  end  of  the  year,  he  may  be  taught  to  drink  from 
a  glass  or  cup  directly. 

If  drinking  water  has  been  given  by  means  of  a  nursing 
bottle  during  much  of  the  first  year,  the  baby  will  take  his 
food  in  the  same  way  the  more  readily.  A  healthy  infant 
weaned  at  9  months  should  begin  with  the  food  for  an  infant 
of  4  or  5  months.  If  he  digests  this  mixture  well,  the 
strength  can  be  increased  until  within  two  or  three  weeks 
he  is  taking  the  food  full  strength.  Increase  in  the  diet 
should  be  made  with  special  caution  at  the  beginning  of 
summer  or  during  the  heat,  when  there  is  great  danger  of 
inducing  diarrhea.  It  is  far  better  to  keep  the  baby  on  rather 
a  low  diet,  even  without  increasing  his  weight,  than  to  upset 
the  intestinal  tract  by  overfeeding.  If,  after  trying  a  new 
food,  vomiting  occurs  or  the  stools  show  that  there  is  indi- 
gestion, it  is  always  best  to  return  to  the  weaker  food  until 
the  disturbance  has  subsided. 

Weaning  from  the  Bottle.  An  artificially  fed  infant  is 
weaned  from  the  bottle  by  beginning  at  10  months  to  sub- 
stitute one  feeding  a  day  from  the  spoon  or  cup  for  one  bottle 
feeding,  gradually  increasing  the  number  of  such  feedings 
until  the*  baby  is  weaned,  usually  by  the  thirteenth  month. 
The  mother  will  find  it  a  convenience  to  continue  the  bottle 
for  the  night  feedings  as  long  as  necessary. 


CHAPTER  XXII 
THE  FEEDING  OF  YOUNG  CHILDREN 

Whether  the  child  be  fed  at  the  breast  or  with  the  bottle, 
the  period  from  the  tenth  to  the  fifteenth  month  is  usually 
one  of  transition.  For  the  breast-fed  baby  it  may  be  more 
critical  than  for  the  artificially  fed;  but  the  former  should 
ordinarily  have  been  growing  used  to  a  certain  proportion 
of  cow's  milk  in  his  diet.  By  the  fifth  or  sixth  month  iron- 
bearing  foods  such  as  yolk  of  egg  and  orange  juice  should 
be  added  to  the  diet.  The  white  of  egg  may  be  used  if  the 
baby  cannot  take  milk.  By  the  ninth  month  thoroughly 
cooked  gruel  may  be  added  to  the  milk  diet. 

Throughout  the  growing  period  the  child  should  have  at 
least  a  quart  of  milk  a  day.  When  he  is  a  year  old,  he  may 
have,  in  addition  to  the  milk,  strained  cereals,  stale  bread, 
toast  or  zweiback,  soft-cooked  egg  (especially  the  yolk), 
fruit  juice  or  fruit  pulp,  such  as  orange  juice  and  prune 
pulp.  Such  a  diet  should  continue  well  through  the  sec- 
ond year.  By  the  end  of  that  time  well-cooked,  strained 
or  finely  mashed  vegetables,  such  as  baked  potato,  spinach, 
carrots,  and  peas,  may  be  added.  It  is  no  longer  necessary 
to  -train  the  cereals  if  they  are  thoroughly  cooked.  Stale 
bread  is  still  given,  but  crackers  such  as  graham  and  Fneedas 
may  be  substituted  in  certain  meals.  Fruits  should  be  given 
daily,  and  raisins,  dates,  and  figs  are  valuable  additions  to 
tho-e  already  named.  If  a  distaste  for  milk  arises,  the  va- 
riety of  other  foods  Bhould  be  cut  down,  ami  every  effort  made 
to  lead  the  child  back  to  it.  In  fact  there  should  lie  little 
variety  up  to  the  fifth  year.  Daring  the  fourth  year  it  is 
unnecessary  to  strain  vegetables  and   fruits.     Cream  may  be 

155 


456  DIET  IN  SPECIAL  CONDITIONS 

added  to  the  vegetables.  Meat  is  very  undesirable  for  young 
children,  and  should  not  be  given  until  about  the  seventh 
year,  since  protein  is  obtainable  in  more  easily  digested  forms 
from  milk  and  eggs.  Sweet  fruits,  such  as  prunes,  dates,  and 
figs,  are  much  better  than  pure  sugar,  since  they  contain  val- 
uable mineral  constituents,  and  are  less  likely  to  destroy  the 
taste  for  other  proper  food. 

Tea,  coffee,  beer,  and  even  cocoa  except  occasionally  and 
very  weak,  should  be  prohibited.  The  child  should  no  more 
expect  to  eat  the  same  food  as  an  adult  than  to  dress  like  one. 
But  his  diet  should  be  limited  in  quality  rather  than  quantity, 
as  he  requires  much  more  in  proportion  than  an  adult  on 
account  of  his  requirements  for  growth  and  his  great  activity. 
Up  to  five  years  of  age,  about  eighty  calories  per  kilogram 
seems  to  be  desirable. 

A  well-known  dispensary  sends  out  printed  instructions  for 
the  people  of  its  neighborhood,  prohibiting  all  eating  between 
meals,  and  forbidding  all  pastry,  coffee,  tea,  alcoholics  and 
carbonated  drinks,  in  the  case  of  children  of  any  age. 

Those  under  seven  years  of  age  are  allowed  no  meats  nor 
fish,  no  hot  bread,  griddlecakes,  or  nuts,  no  corn,  cucumbers, 
egg  plant,  nor  cabbage. 

For  those  under  four  years  no  stews,  tomatoes,  bananas, 
and  fruit  sparingly  in  hot  weather. 

Children  up  to  the  age  of  eighteen  months  are  to  be  limited 
entirely  to  milk,  orange  juice,  and  cooked  and  strained  cereals ; 
with,  in  exceptional  cases,  zwieback,  biscuit  and  soft-cooked 
eggs. 

Such  education  means  much  for  the  development  of  hardy 
men  and  women.  Undernutrition  is  not  due  alone  to  pov- 
erty ;  much  of  it  comes  from  ignorance. 

GENERAL  RULES  FOR  FEEDING  YOUNG  CHILDREN 
Thompson  1 

1.  Allow  time  for  meals. 

2.  See  that  the  food  is  thoroughly  masticated. 

i  W.  Gilroan  Thompson,  M.D. :  "Practical  Dietetics."  New  York.  D. 
Appleton   &  Co. 


THE  FEEDING  OF  YOUNQ  CHILDREN       457 

3.   !><>  qo  allow  Dibbling  between  meals. 
I.   Do  not  tempt  the  child  with  the  sight  of  rich  and  in- 
digestible 1'ood. 

5.  Do  not  force  the  child  to  cat  againsl  his  will,  hut  exam- 
ine the  mouth,  which  may  be  sore  from  erupting  teeth:  and 
examine  the  food,  which  mav  not  be  properly  cooked  or 
flavored.  If  good  food  is  refused  from  peevishness  merely. 
remove  it  and  do  not  offer  it  again  before  the  next  time. 

6.  In  acute  illness  reduce  and  dilute  the  food  at  once. 

Table  of  Comparisons.  Food  Required  by  Child  and  Man 

A  child  under  2  requires  0.3  the  food  of  a  man  doing  moderate 
work. 

A  child  of  .'5  to  5  requires  0.4  the  food  of  a  man  doing  moderate 
work. 

A  clii Id  of  (i  to  0  requires  0.5  the  food  of  a  man  doing  moderate 
work. 

A  child  of  in  to  13  requires  0.6  the  food  of  a  man  doing  moderate 
work. 

A  ifirl  of  14  to  10  requires  0.7  the  food  of  a  man  doing  moderate 
work. 

A  boy  of  14  to  Hi  requires  0.8  the  food  of  a  man  doing  moderate 
work. 

Prof.  W.  0.  Atwateb. 


Table  Showing 

Increase  of 

Calories  Required  for  a 

Growing  Child 

Cabbo- 

Age. 

Protein*. 

Fat. 

iiydi:  \  I  ES 

Calories. 

years. 

grammes 

grammea. 

grammes. 

'    1% 

4  _'.:» 

:!:,.(! 

100 

000.7 

2 

15.5 

36.0 

110 

072.4 

3 

50.0 

120 

1050.4 

4 

53.0 

4  1..-) 

1  :;r, 

1156 

5 

56.0 

43.0 

145 

1  224.0 

8  to  9 

60.0 

4  1.(1 

150 

1270.0 

12  to  13 

7-2.0 

17.C 

24.1 

1730.S 

14   t«.   15 

To.o 

18.0 

270 

1S77.:) 

BUTCHISOIf,   |>.    I').'!.      SCHBOEDEB,  Arrhir.  j >„  >■   lli/'litvr.   iv.   :\U.    L886. 
DIETARIES   FOR   YOUNG   CHILDREN 

d  year. —  900-1 200  Calories  per  di 
7    \.  m.     Orange  juice,  2  tablespoonfuls  (1  ounce). 

Cereal-  oatmeal  Btrained,   i  5  tablespoonfuls. 


458  DIET  IN  SPECIAL  CONDITIONS 

Bread  toasted,  one  thin  slice. 
Milk,  1  cup   (for  cereal  and  to  drink). 
0:30-10  a.m.     Milk,  y2  cup. 

Zweiback,  3  pieces. 
11:30-12  M.     Bread,  stale,   1   slice. 

Yolk    of    egg    (cooked    soft    and    mixed    with    bread 

crumbs) . 
Milk,  1  cup. 
2:30-3  P.M.     Orange  juice,  2  tablespoonfuls. 

Zweiback,  2  pieces. 
5-5:30  p.m.     Bread   toasted   and   dipped   in   milk,   2   thin   slices. 
Milk,   1  y2   cups. 
Diet  for  third  year. —  1300  Calories    (at  least)   per  day. 

7  a.  if.     Cream  of  Wheat,  with  2-3  dates,  5-6  tablespoonfuls 

•  Bread  toasted,  one  slice,  with 

Egg,   soft-cooked. 

Milk,   1   cup. 

0:30-10  a.m.     Graham  crackers,   4    (small). 

Milk,  y2  cup. 

11:30-12  M.     Potato,  baked  and  mashed. 

Peas,  carrots,  with  cream  added. 
Bread,   1  thin  slice. 
Milk,  y2  cup. 
2:30-3  p.m.     Uneeda    Biscuits,    2. 
Milk,  %  cup. 
Fig,   1. 
5 :  30-6  P.  m.     Bread,  2  slices  toasted. 
Milk,   1  cup. 
Diet  for  fourth  to  seventh  years. —  1400-1800  Calories  per  day. 
Breakfast. —  Every  day : 

A   mild    fruit:    as    orange,    fresh   ripe   or   baked   apple,    stewed 

prunes. 
A  well-cooked  cereal:  oatmeal  should  be  given  preference;  Wheat- 
ena,  hominy  grits  may  be  introduced  for  variety,   and  occa- 
sionally a  ready-to-eat  cereal,  especially  in  the  summer. 
A  generous  supply  of  milk  should  be  served  with  any  of  these, 

but  no  sugar  need  be  added. 
Stale  bread :  as  toast,  zweiback,  very  crusty  rolls  baked  a  second 
time  after  they  are  at  least  a  day  old.     These  help  to  develop 
chewing  habits. 
Milk  to  drink:  never  very  cold,  and  may  be  served  hot  on  winter 
mornings.     Weak   cocoa   may   also   be  given. 
]£id-morning  Luncheon : 
Crackers:    sncli    as  graham,    whole   wheat,   Uneeda. 
Fruit:    ripe  apple,  fig,  dates,  or  raisins. 


THE  FEEDING  OF  YOUNQ  CHILDREN       459 

n   Meal: 
Soup:    made  with   milk   and   vegetable  juice,  or   pulp. 
An  egg:  dropped  on  toast,  or  poached,  or  made  into  an  omelet, 

but    never    tried. 

A  green  vegetable:  of  mild  flavor,  mashed  or  tir.ely  chopped. 
Spinach    (rich  in  iron),  carrot-,   peas.     Potato,  and  asparagus 

ti]»s  are  all  valuable. 

Since  it  i-  undesirable  for  the  child  under  seven  or  eight 
-  to  have  meat,  much  of  the  variety  in  the  diet  comes 
through  the  wise  choice  and  careful  cooking  of  vegetables. 
By  forming  this  good  eating  habit  the  child  is  furnished  with 
building  material  while  he  is  young-,  and  with  a  means  of 
keeping  the  bod}-  in  good  condition  as  he  grows  older. 

Desst  rt  : 

Let  this  be  kept  simple,  as:  rice  and  milk,  cereal  puddings,  baked 

custard,    junket,    and    hlanc    mange.      Frozen    creams    an-    a  No 

allowed,  but  milk  sherbets  are  better  than  sweet   creams. 
A  fti  moon  luncheon  : 

Crackers,  or  sponge  cake. 

Milk. 

Fruit,  or  baked  custard. 

per  : 
This  meal  should  b«>  very  simple  up  to  the  eighth  or  ninth  year. 

and  served  not   later  than  six  o'clock. 
Bread  and  milk. 
Milk  toast. 
Creamy  egg  on  toast. 

Children  from  two  to  five  years  of  age  thrive  host  with 
about  10%  protein  in  the  total  food.  If  the  protein  is  in- 
I  beyond  15%,  there  is  a  direct  rise  in  heat  output. 
There  is,  furthermore,  interference  with  the  body's  ability 
re  protein  for  tissue.  Beef  juice  ami  meat-  should  he 
kept  out  of  the  diet  for  the  following  reasons:  their  flavor  is 
too  high  and  tends  to  throw  bland  foods  into  disfavor;  meats 
are  more  expensive  than  other  foods  furnishing  protein,  such 
as  milk  and  eggs,  and  they  tend  to  putrefaction  in  the  large 
intestine.  Children  are  more  sensitive  than  adults  to  putre- 
factive organisms. 

A-  -(M.n  as  the  child  begins  going  to  school,  the  ten. Ii 
-    _  Lkfast  musl  he  guarded  againsi  carefullv.     The 


460  DIET  IN  SPECIAL  CONDITIONS 

results  of  carelessness  with  this  meal  are  lack  of  appetite, 
anaemia,  and  stunted  growth.  A  regular  schedule  for  meals 
is  an  essential  to  good  digestion.  The  morning  and  after- 
noon luncheons  must  be  simple:  no  other  nibbling  between 
meals  should  be  allowed. 

After  the  sixth  or  seventh  year  sugar  may  be  given  —  candy, 
very  simple,  after  meals,  never  between  meals.  If  the  extra 
meals  always  consist  of  only  one  or  two  simple  foods,  they 
will  be  naturally  discontinued  when  the  child  no  longer  feels 
hungry  for  them;  yet  while  there  is  really  need  of  extra  fuel,, 
that  need  will  be  met. 

GENERAL  PRINCIPLES   OF  FEEDING  SICK   CHILDREN 

Since  this  work  has  been  chiefly  devoted,  as  the  title  im- 
plies, to  the  relationship  between  diet  and  disease,  the  amount 
of  space  given  to  the  feeding  of  presumably  normal  children 
may  occasion  some  wonderment.  But  the  chief  difference  be- 
tween the  dietetics  of  the  infant  and  adult  lies  in  the  fact  that 
the  bottle  infant  and  the  weanling,  nominally  healthy,  have 
to  be  dieted  to  prevent  disease.  This  has  now  come  to  be 
realized  on  all  sides.  In  classic  and  mediaeval  times  an  infant 
which  could  not  get  breast  milk  usually  perished.  The  wean- 
ing period  was  somewhat  less  trying,  but  millions  of  children 
must  have  succumbed  to  the  ordeal  of  changing  to  solid  food. 
Improvement  in  feeding  means  a  direct  lessening  of  infant 
mortality,  as  modern  statistics  testify. 

Colic  and  Vomiting  (Begurgitation)  are  almost  physiolog- 
ical, so  common  is  their  occurrence;  they  do  not  arise  from 
any  single  cause,  and  the  fact  that  breast-fed  infants  suffer 
almost  as  frequently  as  the  bottle-fed,  often  more  so,  shows 
that  such  ailments  are  not  entirely  preventable  by  care  in  feed- 
ing. In  breast-fed  children,  these  symptoms  are  best  con- 
trolled by  lengthening  the  period  between  feedings.  In  bottle- 
led  children,  besides  lengthening  the  nursing  interval,  special 
pains  should  be  taken  in  the  modification  of  the  milk.  'These 
symptoms  may  occur  quite  independently  of  diet.  Chilling 
of  the  body  surface,  coughing,  improper  handling,  a  too  snug 


THE  FEEDING  OF  YOUNQ  CHILDREN       461 

binder,  etc.,  may  be  fche  true  cause  of  the  trouble.  EJven  \rt 
breast-fed  infants  under  ideal  conditions,  the  mother's  milk 
may  not  be  well-borne.  It  may  in  fact  be  so  rich  in  fat  and 
protein  as  to  require  dilution;  which  of  course  in  the  breast- 
fed may  he  accomplished  only  by  giving  the  infant  water  be- 
fore or  after  nursing. 

Qavage.  Of  late  years  the  use  of  the  stomach  sound  in 
feeding  sick  nurslings  has  come  into  considerable  vogue  in 
foundling  asylums  and  the  like.  This  resource  has  a  con- 
siderable range  of  application.  Thus  in  premature  infants 
(which  do  not  nurse  readily)  ;  in  all  infants  which  refuse  to 
nurse;  and  in  infants  sick  from  any  cause,  especially  when  the 
nerve  centers,  swallowing  or  breathing  apparatus  are  involved, 
or  when  continuous  vomiting  is  present,  the  use  of  the  stom- 
ach tube  may  save  life.  Very  young  babies  are  fed  much 
more  readily  than  older  ones,  since  they  are  less  liable  to 
fright.  The  tube  used  is  a  soft  rubber  catheter,  which  is 
coupled  with  a  small  funnel.  The  catheter  is  first  passed 
down  the  gullet.  In  order  to  have  plenty  of  leeway,  it  is  an 
advantage  to  unite  the  catheter  to  a  second  rubber  tube  with 
a  piece  of  glass  tubing.  The  second  rubber  tube  is  then 
coupled  to  the  funnel.  If  the  case  be  one  of  vomiting,  it  is 
often  necessary  to  wash  out  the  stomach  before  the  introduc- 
tion of  nourishment,  however  given.  The  term  lavage,  used 
for  washing  out  the  stomach,  must  not  be  confounded  with 
gavage,  which  means  literally  forced  feeding.  Complete  de- 
tails will  be  found  in  works  on  obstetrics  and  obstetric  nurs- 
ing. Edgar  >ays  of  gavage,  that  the  infant  to  be  ted  should 
lie  on  its  hack  in  the  nurse's  arms,  its  own  arms  held  to  its 
>idrs.  while  an  extra  assistant  steadies  the  head.  The  tube 
having  been  passed,  the  modified  milk  or  other  nutriment  is 
poured  into  the  funnel,  and  as  the  latter  empties  itself  the 
tube  is  pinched  to  present  i-c;i|if.  While  regurgitation  may 
occur  and  necessitate  a  repetition  of  the  act,  it  very  often 
happen-  that  food  taken  in  this  manner  ifl  much  better  re- 
tained than  if  taken  by  nursing  the  breasi  or  bottle.  The 
on  required  by  nursing,  the  Bwallowing  of  air,  etc..  are 


462  DIET  IN  SPECIAL  CONDITIONS 

avoided  in  gavage.  To  recapitulate,  the  conditions  in  which 
gavage  has  been  found  life  saving,  are  given  by  Edgar  in  the 
following  order : 

Prematurity  (especially  in  incubator  babies)  ;  after  opera- 
tions on  the  nose  and  throat;  habitual  vomiting;  pneumonia, 
diphtheria  and  scarlet  fever.  The  jaws  of  the  nursling  can 
usually  be  separated  to  receive  the  gavage-tube.  But  if  there 
is  inflammation  of  the  mouth  or  locking  of  the  jaws  (or  if 
intubation  has  been  required  for  diphtheritic  cases)  it  may  be 
necessary  to  resort  to  nasal  feeding  (see  p.  79). 

Diarrhwa.  Under  this  familiar  term,  which  includes  the 
mildest  looseness  of  the  bowels  as  well  as  the  severest  symp- 
toms of  cholera  and  dysentery,  may  be  included  the  greater 
part  of  the  morbidity  of  the  nursling.  Death  certificates  of 
babies,  especially  in  summer  months,  chiefly  specify  this  cause. 
The  diarrhoea  makes  itself  felt  in  a  variety  of  ways.  If  con- 
joined with  vomiting  we  may  term  it  a  gastro-enteritis,  and 
state  that  a  given  child  died  from  inability  to  profit  by  its 
nourishment.  But  many  infants  succumb,  not  because  their 
nourishment  is  rejected  outright,  but  rather  from  the  fact  that 
it  is  not  utilized.  We  can  understand  death  when  due  to  vio- 
lent vomiting  and  diarrhoea;  but  the  slow  death  from  non- 
utilization  of  food,  such  as  occurs  so  extensively  in  bottle-fed 
tenement  house  children,  still  remains  largely  a  mystery,  which 
has  been  explained  in  the  most  diverse  ways.  The  amount 
and  character  of  gastro-intestinal  disturbance  present  is  not 
sufficient,  in  many  cases  at  least,  to  explain  the  total  failure 
of  nutrition.  It  is  in  the  effort  to  combat  this  condition  that 
so  many  methods  of  feeding  have  come  into  use.  As  in  all 
stubborn  and  imperfectly  understood  conditions,  with  a  bad 
outlook  for  recovery,  many  substances  have  been  tested,  and 
many  recoveries  have  been  recorded.  If  a  threatening  diar- 
rhoea appears,  with  or  without  vomiting,  the  best  course  to 
pursue  at  first  seems  to  be  fasting.  Sterile  water  may  be  al- 
lowed but  milk  is  prohibited.  It  is  believed  by  some  au- 
thorities that  cow's  milk  or  the  milk  of  any  animal  is  poison- 
ous in  these  cases.     Others  would  state  that  milk  is  dangerous 


THE  FEEDING  OF  YOUNQ  CHILDREN       463 

because  of  one  or  another  solid  ingredient,  or  because  it 
furnishes  a  culture  medium  for  germs.  In  any  case  some  pre- 
digested  food  like  panopepton,  or  some  cereal  decoction  like 
rice  or  barley  water  seems  better  borne.  It  may  also  be  ad- 
visable at  this  stage  to  use  certain  drugs  to  control  vomiting. 
When  the  latter  has  ceased  for  twenty-four  hours,  normal  feed- 
ing may  be  cautiously  resumed.  The  treatment  of  these  cases 
taxes  the  utmost  resources  of  the  physician,  and  the  mortality 
is  enormous.  The  nurse's  duties  lie  rather  in  the  direction 
of  prevention ;  but  if  these  cases  develop,  rest  of  the  stomach 
is  imperative  at  first  and  milk  must  not  be  resumed  until  all 
symptoms  are  passed.  Diarrhoea,  dysentery  and  all  gastro- 
intestinal troubles  in  older  children  are  dieted  on  the  same 
principles  as  are  the  same  affections  in  adults. 

istipation  in  nurslings  is  a  condition  difficult  to  over- 
come entirely  by  diet.  The  familiar  remedies  are  sugar  and 
cream,  an  excess  of  either  of  which,  over  dietetic  requirements, 
may  loosen  the  bowels.  A  prescription  of  laboratory  milk 
may  meet  this  obstacle,  or  the  corresponding  home  modifica- 
tion. Fruit  juices,  oatmeal  gruel,  etc.,  are  sometimes  em- 
ployed. 

Marasmus  and  Rickets  are  two  conditions  generally  in- 
cluded under  diseases  amenable  to  diet.  There  is  no  special 
regimen,  however,  for  such  affections :  a  full  balanced  diet 
cannot  be  improved  on.     Infantile  Scurvy  should  be  named  in 

ime  connection,  and  is  the  result  of  an  unbalanced  diet. 
Orange  juice  and  a  change  in  the  diet  will  usually  cure  the 
disease  promptly. 


CHAPTEK  XXIII 
THE  ADOLESCENT— THE  SEDENTAKY— THE  AGED 

DIET  FOR  THE  ADOLESCENT 

The  growing  youth  needs  extra  protein  food  for  the  build- 
ing of  protoplasm  and  a  sufficiency  of  salts  for  the  rapidly 
forming  tissues;  earthly  salts  for  bones,  iron  for  blood,  phos- 
phorus for  nervous  tissue  and  its  general  influence  on  growth, 
obtained  from  the  average  liberal  mixed  diet  with  milk,  eggs, 
fresh  fruit  and  green  vegetables,  so  that  no  special  plan  of 
feeding  is  required.  If  the  adolescent  lead  a  very  active  ex- 
istence, equivalent  to  hard  labor  in  an  adult,  he  will  naturally 
require  the  same  amount  of  food  with  necessary  reduction  for 
weight,  and  some  allowance  for  extra  protein.  Many  ado- 
lescents, however,  are  very  sluggish  and  lead  inactive  lives,  and 
need  encouragement  to  activity,  with  food  in  pnyportion  to 
its  degree.  Again  the  appetite  is  not  always  a  safe  guide, 
especially  for  girls;  for  the  period  of  adolescence  coincides 
witli  the  development  of  "hysterical"  tendencies  which  may 
be  manifested  by  excessive  or  diminished  craving  for  food 
without  any  reference  to  the  actual  physical  demands.  Girls 
should  be  trained  out  of  fads.  An  active  adolescent  may  have 
but  little  appetite  while  a  sluggish  one  may  be  a  glutton,  or 
may  continually  drink  water.  The  perverted  cravings  for 
substances  of  no  nutritive  value  and  without  appetizing  qual- 
iiy.  which  accompany  this  period,  are  well  known.  It  is 
therefore  necessary  that  the  diet  of  this  period  be  as  care- 
fully supervised  as  that  for  the  little  child.  The  food  musl 
conform  to  the  subject's  physical  requirements,  must  be  enivn 
regularly,  and  must  be  administered  with  discretion,  for  a 
large  percentage  of  food  aversions  are  acquired  at  this  lime, 
and  it  is  essential  to  the  well-being  of  the  individual,  and  the 

464 


DIET  FOR  Till-;  ADOLESCENT  t65 


comfort  of  <>tiirrs,  that  his  food  habits  be  good.     In  college 
fond  should  be  prepared  with  reference  to  work. 

The  energy  requirements  of  this  period  are  approximately:  j 

Protkin  Calories  Total  Calories 

ix  Years              per  Poind  per  Poind 

12-13                                 3  25-30 

14-17  20-25 

"This  means  that  the  total  daily  requirements  for  girls 
from  fourteen  to  seventeen  will  be  from  2200  to  2600  Calories; 
for  boys  of  the  same  age  from  2500  to  3000  Calories.  Very 
often  by  this  time  the  full  height  will  have  been  attained  and 
the  parents  are  surprised  at  the  large  consumption  of  food, 
thinking  that  growth  has  ceased.  But  growth  is  not  merely 
a  question  of  height.  As  already  said,  it  involves  laving  on 
of  muscle  and  fat,  development  of  internal  organs  and  a  vigor- 
ous nervous  system,  and  these  demand  food.  Furthermore, 
muscular  activity,  especially  out  of  doors,  is  a  great  aid  in 
muscle  and  nerve  development,  and  the  extra  fuel  required 
to  support  this  activity  should  never  he  begrudged  young  peo- 
ple. For  five  or  ten  years  after  full  height  is  reached  their 
food  consumption  will  be  considerably  higher  than  that  of 
adults  of  the  same  Bize.     As  long  as  they  confine  themselves 

:iple.  nourishing  foods  they  are  not  likely  to  overeat. 
Sometimes  their  expenditures  in  growth  and  activity  exceed 
their  assimilative  powers.     Especially  is  this  true  of  those 

grow  very  tall  with  great  rapidity  and  indulge  freely  in 
activ)  and  dancing.     To  leave  a  balance  in   favor  of 

the  body  it  may  be  for  a  time  aecessary  to  curtail  the  activity 

.bat —  to  insisl  on  Longer  hours  for  resl  and  less  violent 
until  substantial  ltm in<  in  weighl  and  other  signs  of 
physical  welfare  -how  that  the  energy  demands  are  qoI  greater 
than  the  energy  supply." 

"The  daily  menu  li-t  may  well  include  Buch  dishes  n-  the 
followi  i 

l  Ifacll   practical   information    in    refei  iding   tli.-   a 

Family  "  bj   I  »r  icmiUan  Co.. 

York. 


466  DIET  IN  SPECIAL  CONDITIONS 

1.  Soup,  as  tomato,  green  pea,  split  pea,  white  and  black  bean. 

2.  Two  or  three  hot  dishes,  as  spaghetti  with  tomato  sauce, 
mashed  potatoes  with  green  peas,  baked  beans,  corn  pudding,  a  stew 
with  vegetables  or  a  hot  roast  beef  sandwich. 

3.  Salads,  as  potato,  egg,  fruit,  or  green  vegetable. 

4.  Sandwiches,  one  or  two  varieties  each  day. 

5.  Fruit,  as  apples,  bananas,  stewed  fruits  of  various  kinds. 

6.  Milk  and  cocoa. 

7.  Plain  cake  or  sweet  wafers  offered  only  in  combination  with 
milk  or  other  plain  food. 

8.  Ice  cream,  charlotte  russe,  simple  baked  pudding,  sweet  choco- 
late. 

The  evening  meal  needs  to  be  more  substantial  than  for 
the  younger  children.  In  the  city  this  will  be  the  time  for 
the  regular  dinner ;  in  the  country  it  is  more  likely  to  be  sup- 
per. Here  we  must  guard  against  extremes  —  too  heavy  a 
meal  on  the  one  hand  and  too  light  on  the  other.  Supper 
should  include  one  substantial  warm  dish  as  a  rule.  This 
may  be  a  thick  soup,  as  suggested  for  the  younger  children, 
macaroni  and  cheese,  a  stew  or  chowder,  or  a  loaf  of  beans  or 
lentils  with  a  cream  or  tomato  sauce.  This  with  plenty  of 
bread  and  butter,  some  stewed  fruit  and  cookies,  or  a  whole- 
some pudding,  and  milk  to  drink,  will  make  a  sufficiently 
nourishing  repast." 

DIET  FOR  THE  SEDENTARY 

Xo  exact  rules  can  be  laid  down  for  the  dietetics  of  the 
sedentary.  An  individual  may  lead  a  technically  sedentary 
life,  and  yet  use  up  a  great  amount  of  energy,  only  standing 
and  walking  muscles  being  in  disuse  just  as  in  a  person  whose 
occupation  requires  standing  and  walking,  little  use  may  be 
made  of  arm,  shoulder  and  trunk  muscles.  A  better  distinc- 
tion is  between  out-door  and  in-door  life,  or  quiet  and  active 
existence.  True  sedentary  persons  lead  both  a  quiescent  and 
an  in-door  existence,  chiefly  in  the  sitting  posture.  The  less 
the  exertion,  the  less  the  requirement  for  food.  Excess  of 
food  over  actual  demands  is  usually  manifested  by  the  putting 


DIET  FOR  THE  AOED  n;; 

on  of  flesh  or  by  the  development  of  indigestion  or  metabolic 
disturbances.  In  theory  there  should  be  no  Buch  thing  as  a 
permissible  diet  for  the  sedentary,  because  no  one  should 
allow  himself  to  lead  a  purely  quiescent  existence.  It  is  pos- 
sible to  compress  a  good  deal  of  active  exercise  in  a  couple 
of  hours  of  the  twenty-four,  so  that  the  sedentary  person  passes 
virtually  into  the  next  class  above,  corresponding  to  light 
active  labor  extending  through  a  number  of  hours. 

While  individual  estimates  vary,  it  is  probable  that  1600- 
2000  calories  suffice  for  the  average  individual  on  the  usual 
basis  of  145  pounds  weight  with  the  usual  reduction  for  sex. 
As  the  sedentary  person  finds  it  difficult  to  digest  heavy  arti- 
cles of  food,  the  food  should  be  easily  digestible.  Fruit  and 
succulent  vegetables  (salads)  are  usually  well  borne  by  seden- 
tary people,  as  they  induce  daily  evacuations  of  the  bowels, 
and  are  not  fattening.  They  are  the  reverse  of  condensed 
and  highly  nutritious  foods. 

DIET  FOR  THE  AGED 
As  there  is  a  radical  distinction  between  a  person  merely 
old  in  years  and  one  who  is  actually  senile,  no  dietary  can 
be  devised  to  suit  the  case  of  all  those  of  advanced  years.     A 
man  is  technically  old  at  sixty.     In  theory  he  should  require 
Leas  protein  in  proportion  to  carbohydrates  than  a  younger 
man.     Many  people  of  both  sexes,   however,  preserve   their 
working  capacity  far  into  the  sixties  and  even  into  the  seven- 
Many  people  can  put  on  flesh  up  to  the  age  of  sixty, 
and  it  is  very  important  that  they  do  not  do  so.     Their  regi- 
men should  be  practically  that  of  the  corpulent.     After  the 
:  sixty  the  weight  may  remain  at  an  equilibrium  for  some 
3,  or  with  the  advent  of  senile  change,  the  flesh  may  be- 
gin t«>  disappear,  this  1<>>^  being  physiological     At  this  period 
lependfl  on  the  -election   of   food   than  on  the  quantity 
ami    thoroughness   of   mastication.     An    active,    healthy    man 
can  preserve  hie  condition  by  cutting  down  the  amount  of 
food  greatly,  and  chewing  it  thoroughly.     The  demand   for 
in  will  very  likely  he  satisfied   with   a  small   quantity. 


468  DIET  IN  SPECIAL  CONDITIONS 

The  total  fuel  requirement  will  depend  upon  whether  the  in- 
dividual exercises  or  leads  a  sedentary  life.  Sedentary  elderly 
people  can  subsist  on  very  little  food,  and  do  not  differ  much 
in  this  respect  from  middle-aged  sedentary  people. 

A  senile  person  is  practically  an  invalid,  and  his  dietetic 
demands  do  not  differ  greatly  from  those  of  other  invalids 
(aside  from  the  convalescent).  If  the  teeth  are  more  or  less 
useless,  and  mastication  cannot  be  effected  by  the  gums,  the 
individual  becomes  a  confirmed  dyspeptic.  The  problem  of 
starch  digestion  becomes  a  serious  one.  Milk  can  be  used 
largely. 

In  theory  sugars  could  partially  replace  starches.  An  ex- 
cellent food  under  the  circumstances  is  toasted  bread,  which 
may  be  dipped  in  coffee  to  soften  it.  In  toast  the  starch  be- 
comes changed  to  dextrin,  which  is  but  one  step  removed  from 
sugar.  Well-cooked  cereals,  vegetables  (potatoes,  greens,  etc.) 
and  fruits  may  be  used  in  small  quantities  in  the  expectation 
that  they  will  be  digested  by  the  pancreatic  juice. 

Special  Eegimen:  As  already  suggested,  this  cannot  differ 
in  kind  from  that  of  the  confined  invalid  or  dyspeptic. 

DIET  1 :  Soup. —  Nutritious  soups,  such  as  chicken  or  fish  puree, 
beef  tea,  mutton  or  chicken  broth.     Purees  of  all  kinds. 

Fish. —  White  fish  as  sole,  whiting,  smelts,  flounders,  etc.  (best 
when  boiled) . 

Eggs. —  Egg  lightly  cooked,  or  beaten  up  with  milk,  etc. 

Meats. —  Young  and  tender  chicken  and  game.  Other  tender  moats. 
Potted  chicken,  game  and  other  potted  meats.  Sweetbreads,  bacon 
grilled. 

Farinaceous. —  Bread  and  butter  (bread  at  least  a  day  old)  to  be 
soaked  in  tea  or  milk  or  water.  Bread  and  milk,  porridge  and  oat- 
meal gruel.  Puddings  of  ground  rice,  tapioca,  arrowroot,  sago,  maca- 
roni.    Prepared  foods  consisting  of  predigested  starches. 

Vegetables. —  Potatoes,  carrots,  spinach  and  other  succulent  vege- 
tables, stewed  celery,  boiled  onions. 

Desserts. —  Fruit  jellies,  stewed  or  baked  fruit.  Pulp  of  perfectly 
ripe  raw  fruit  in  small  quantity,  farinaceous  puddings. 

Liquids. —  Milk  in  all  forms,  and  with  the  addition  of  warm  Vichy 
or  warm  water,  fruit  juice. 

l  Food  suitable  for  the  Aged  According  to  Yeo. 


DIET  FOR  THE  AGED  469 

AVERAGE  WEIGHT  OF  OLD  MEN  AND  WOMEN  i 


Mi:\ 

Women 

Age  in  Ykamb 

POl  \ds 

Pounds 

144 

125 

7" 

139 

L25 

BO 

135 

113 

90 

127 

109 

2"  It  is  roughly  estimated  that  the  decrease  in  food  require- 
ment due  to  old  age,  from  the  total  fuel  which  would  be 
required  by  an  adult  of  the  same  degree  of  activity,  is  about 
10  per  cent,  between  the  ages  of  sixty  and  seventy;  about  20 
per  cent,  between  seventy  and  eighty;  and  about  30  per  cent 
after  that.  In  other  words  a  man  who  at  thirty  requires  per 
day  '2000  Calories  simply  sitting  at  rest,  will  require  under 
the  same  circumstances  only  about  1800  at  seventy  and  only 
1600  at  eighty.  The  ordinary  activities  of  a  man  of  thirty 
may  raise  his  energy  output  to  3500  Calories  per  day,  but  few 
men  of  eighty  could  do  sufficient  muscular  work  to  transform 
bo  much  additional  fuel.  Their  lives  are  likely  to  be  decidedly 
sedentary:  hence  1600  to  1800  Calories  will  probably  closely 
approximate  their  total  daily  expenditure,  though  no  abso- 
lute rule  can  be  laid  down.  In  general,  there  is  safety  in 
abstemiousness :  dangers  of  excess  are  greater  than  dangers 
of  undernutrition." 

1  From  Bulletin  No.  223,  Office  of  Experiment  Stations,  U.  S.  Department 
of   Agriculture    (calculated  to  pounds). 

I  Much  practical  information  in  reference  to  feeding  the  aeed  is  to  he  found 
in  "Feeding  the  Family"  by  Dr.  Marv  Swartz  Rose.  The  Macmillan  Co.,  New 
York. 


470 


DIET  IN  SPECIAL  CONDITIONS 


SYMONDS'S    TABLE    OF    HEIGHT    AND    WEIGHT    FOE    MEN    AT 
DIFFERENT  AGES i 

(Based  on  74,162  accepted  applicants  for  life  insurance.) 


Ages 

15-24 

25-29 

30-34 

35-39 

40-44 

45-49 

50-54 

55-59 

60-64 

65-69 

5 

ft.   0 

in. 

120 

125 

128 

131 

133 

134 

134 

134 

131 

1 

in. 

122 

126 

129 

131 

134 

136 

136 

136 

134  . 

2 

in. 

124 

128 

131 

133 

136 

138 

138 

138 

137 

3 

in. 

127 

131 

134 

136 

139 

141 

141 

141 

140 

140 

4 

in. 

131 

135 

138 

140 

143 

144 

145 

145 

144 

143 

5 

in. 

134 

138 

141 

143 

146 

147 

149 

149 

148 

147 

6 

in. 

138 

142 

145 

147 

150 

151 

153 

153 

153 

151 

7 

in. 

142 

147 

150 

152 

155 

156 

158 

158 

158 

156 

8 

in. 

146 

151 

154 

157 

160 

161 

163 

163 

163 

162 

9 

in. 

150 

155 

159 

162 

165 

166 

167 

168 

168 

168 

10 

in. 

154 

159 

164 

167 

170 

171 

172 

173 

174 

174 

11 

in. 

159 

164 

'  169 

173 

175 

177 

177 

178 

180 

180 

6 

ft.   0 

in. 

165 

170 

175 

179 

180 

183 

182 

183 

185 

185 

1 

in. 

170 

177 

181 

185 

186 

189 

188 

189 

189 

189 

2 

in. 

176 

184 

188 

192 

194 

196 

194 

194 

192 

192 

3 

in. 

181 

190 

195 

200 

203 

204 

201 

198 

SYMONDS'S  TABLE  OF  HEIGHT  AND  WEIGHT  FOR  WOMEN  AT 
DIFFERENT  AGES  2 


(Based  on  58,855  accepted  applicants  for  life  insurance.) 

Ages 

15-19 

20-24 

25-29 

30-34 

35-39 

40-44 

45-49 

50-54 

55-59 

60-64 

4 

ft.  11  in. 

111 

113 

115 

117 

119 

122 

125 

128 

128 

126 

5 

ft.   0  in. 

113 

114 

117 

119 

122 

125 

128 

130 

131 

129 

1  in. 

115 

116 

118 

121 

124 

128 

131 

133 

134 

132 

2  in. 

117 

118 

120 

123 

127 

132 

134 

137 

137 

136 

3  in. 

120 

122 

124 

127 

131 

135 

138 

141 

141 

140 

4  in. 

123 

125 

127 

130 

134 

138 

142 

145 

145 

144 

5  in. 

125 

128 

131 

135 

139 

143 

147 

149 

149 

148 

6  in. 

128 

132 

135 

137 

143 

146 

151 

153 

153 

152 

7  in. 

132 

135 

139 

143 

147 

150 

154 

157 

156 

155 

8  in. 

136 

140 

143 

147 

151 

155 

158 

161 

161 

160 

9  in. 

140  , 

144 

147 

151 

155 

159 

163 

166 

166 

165 

10  in. 

144 

147 

151 

155 

159 

163 

167 

170 

170 

169 

1  Medical  Record,  Sept.   5,   1908. 

2  McClure's  Magazine,  Jan.,  1909. 


Feeding  the  Family,"  page  429. 
"  Feeding  the  Family,"  page  430. 


INDEX  TO  EECIPES— GENERAL. 
INDEX 


in  baking  powder 

You  will  find  absolute  purity,  uniform 
strength,  economy  and  efficiency  in 

T?uirtfi>rd 

V^  THE  WHOLESOME 

BAKING  POWDER 

It  raises  your  cake,  biscuit  or  muffin  just 
right— makes  all  home  baking  of  that  even  text- 
ure and  appetizing  appearance  sought  for  by  all 
good  cooks. 

It  is  healthful,  because  it  restores  the  nutri- 
tious properties  of  which  fine  wheat  flour  has 
been  deprived.  It  is  economical,  because  it  does 
not  cause  waste  of  good  material,  and  because 
of  its  reasonable  cost. 

Ask  us  to  mail  you,  FREE,  a  copy  of  "  Rumford 
Dainties  and  Household  Helps."  In  their  daily 
work  housekeepers  and  nurses  will  find  this  a 
most  useful  and  helpful  book. 

You  will  always  find  Rumford 

Dependable — Economical 

RUMFORD  CHEMICAL  WORKS,  Providence,  R.  I. 


472 


INDEX  TO  RECIPES 


A. 


PAGE 

PAGE 

Acid  Beverages    . 

110 

Albuminous  Beverau:^ 

IIS 

Acid  Phosphate 

113 

Albumin  Water 

122 

Acid   Phosphate  Whey 

113 

Albuminized    Clam    Water   123 

Apple    Water 

115 

"                Grape    Juice   123 

Cream  of  Tartar   Drink 

114 

Milk 

122 

Currant     Water 

115 

"                Orange    . 

123 

Effervescent   Lemonade 

111 

Sherrv     . 

123 

Egg  Lemonade  . 

121 

Water      . 

.    122 

Fruit  Lemonade 

111 

Beef    Egg-nog    . 

120 

Fruit    Punch 

117 

Coffee   Egg-nog 

.    120 

Fruitade        .... 

112 

Egg  Broth    .... 

.    118 

Grape  Juice 

116 

"      Lemonade  . 

.    121 

Lemonade 

112 

Egg-nog 

.    119 

"       Lithia      .      .      . 

lit; 

Egg-nog  No.  II 

119 

u       Nectar 

116 

Egg  and  Brandy 

120 

"       Water       .      .      . 

115 

"      and  Rum   . 

120 

Iri>h  Moss  Lemonade  . 

112 

"      and  Wine  .      .      . 

.    120 

Jelly   and   Ice    . 

114 

Grape  Yolk  . 

121 

Lactose  Lemonade  . 

111 

"       Juice  and  Egg 

122 

Lemonade      .... 

111 

Junket  Egg-nog 

119 

Lemon  Whey 

113 

Malted  Milk  and  Egg  . 

121 

Malted  Milk  Currant  Jell} 

f    114 

Mulled    Wine 

122 

Malted  Milk  with  Wine   , 

114 

Pineapple  Egg-nog 

120 

Orangeade     .... 

112 

Stokes'  Mixture 

121 

Orangeade  No.  II    . 

112 

Albuminous  Jellies 

221 

Pineapple   Juice 

113 

Beef   Jelly    .            .      . 

222 

Pineapple   Lemonade    . 

111 

Calf's   Foot  Jelly    . 

221 

Rhubarb  Water 

115 

Chicken   Broth  Jelly    . 

222 

Soda  or  White  Rock  Lem 

Panopepton  Jelly    . 

■H\< 

onade  .            ... 

111 

Peptonoids   Coffee  Jelly 

207 

Tamarind    Malted    Milk 

116 

Wine  Jelly 

205 

Tamarind    Water 

115 

Apples 

Tea  Punch    .... 

116 

Apple   Cuban    Style 

280 

Tutti   Frutti   Punch 

117 

"        Tapioca 

300 

Wine  Whey  .... 

113 

Water     .      .      . 

1 15 

Acid     Phosphate      <  Bobs 

Baked   Apples   . 

27!» 

ford's)      .... 

Stewed  Apples  . 

279 

Acid    Phosphate 

113 

A  I'  R  7  CO  T      A  N  I)      P  1 

A<id  Phosphate  Whey 

118 

Sauce       .... 

473 


474 


INDEX  TO  RECIPES 


PAGE 

Arrowroot  Gruel     . 

238 

Asparagus  on  Toast     . 

268 

Soup       .      .      . 

223 

Boiled  Asparagus    . 

267 

Creamed  Asparagus     . 

268 

B. 

Bacon,  Broiled   .... 

151 

Curled  Bacon     .... 

151 

Baked  Custards 

Baked  Custard  .      .       288 

-280 

Caramel  Custard   . 

290 

"        Custard    (Lactose) 

200 

Chocolate   Custard 

280 

Malted  Milk  Custard  .      . 

200 

White  Custard        .      .      . 

280 

Baking  Powder  (Rumford) 

472 

Bananas   Baked 

280 

Banana  Custard     . 

288 

Barley 

Barley  Gruel     .... 

238 

Gruel   with    Broth 

238 

"         Gruel  or  Jelly 

238 

Jelly       .... 

244 

Water    .... 

124 

"        Water      (for      In- 

fants)      

125 

Bavarian  Cream 

210 

Beef 

Beef  Broth 

210 

"     Egg-nog     .... 

120 

"     Jelly 

222 

"     Sandwiches     . 

260 

Broiled  Beef  Steak      .      . 

140 

Maitre  D'Hotel  Butter      . 

140 

Pan      Broiled      Beefsteak 

Cakes 

140 

Boast  Beef 

152 

Scraped  Beef      .... 

217 

Beef  Preparations  . 

212 

Beef  Essence      .... 

215 

"     Juice 

214 

"     Juice    (for    Infants) 

215 

"Tea 

215 

"     Tea   Frozen    . 

216 

"     Tea      with       Hydro- 

chloric   Acid 

216 

Liquid  Poptonoids  . 

215 

Pano]  i  pton 

216 

PAGE 

Raw  Beef  Sandwiches  .  217 
Scraped  Beef     .      .      .      .217 

Beet  Greens 269 

Beverages 

Acid  Beverages  .  .  .110 
Albuminous  Beverages  .  118 
Miscellaneous  Beverages  .  127 
Starchy  Beverages  .  .  .124 
Birds  (Note  Poultry)  .  .  152 
Biscuit 

Baking  Powder  Biscuit  .  253 
Bran  Biscuit  ....  253 
"  Cakes  .  .  .  .254 
Cornmeal  Gems  .  .  .  254 
Gum  Gluten  Biscuit  .  .  252 
"       Muffins     .      .   253 

Pop   Overs 254 

White  Gems       .      .      .      .254 

Blanc    Mange      ....  205 

Chocolate  Blanc  Mange     .   301 

Boiled  Frosting  ....   320 

Bouillon,  Clam   .      .      .      .174 

Clam  Bouillon  Bisque  .      .175 

Bran   Cakes 254 

Bran  Tea 137 

Brandy  and  Milk    .      .      .107 

Bread 247 

Baking  Powder  Biscuit  .  253 
Boston  Brown  Bread  .      .    252 

Bran  Bread 252 

"     Biscuit       ....  253 

"     Cakes 254 

Cornmeal  Gems       .      .      .   254 

Entire  Wheat  Bread   .      .251 

Gum  Gluten  Biscuit     .      .   252 

"       Bread       .      .   252 

"       Muffins     .      .   253 

Pop  Overs 254 

White  Flour  Bread  .  .  250 
White  Gems  .  .  .  .254 
Whole  Wheat  or   Graham 

Bread 251 

Bread  Crumbs  Buttered  .  246 
Bread  Panada  ....  127 
Bread  Pudding  ....  302 
Chocolate  Bread  Pudding  .  303 
Gluten  Brown  Betty  .  .  304 
Jelly  Bread  Pudding  .  .  303 
Lactose  "  "  .      .   304 

Lemon     "  "  .      .    303 


1XDEX  TO  RECIPES 


475 


PACT 

Orange    Broad    Pudding   .    302 

Plain       "  .      .    302 

Bread  Sauce  for  Game     .   158 

Breakfast  Foods     .     .     .  242 

Boiled  Rice 297 

Cerumen]   Mush  .   242 

Gum      Gluten      Breakfast 

Food 242 

Hasty    Pudding        .      .       .242 

Hominy 24  3 

Oatmeal  Mush   ....   243 
M  earned    Rice    .      .      .      .298 

Broths 217 

Beef  Broth 210 

Broth  with  Grains       .      .   219 

Chicken  Broth   .      .      .      .220 

Clam  Broth  Xo.  I    .      .      .   220 

"      Broth  No.  11       .      .220 

Egg  Broth  (Milk)   .      .      .118 

u     Broth     (Hot    Water)   221 

u     Broth  (Beef  Broth)    .   221 

Mutton  Broth    .      .      .      .219 

Prepared  Broths      .      .      .    221 

Veal  Broth 220 

Butter  Balls  ....  255 
Butter  Cream  ....  165 
Buttermilk  (Artificial)  .  199 
Buttered  Crumbs  .246 


C. 


Cake 317 

1  toiled    Frosting      .      .      .  320 

<  old  Water  Sponge  Cake  .  318 

Ginger    Bread    .      .      .      .  320 

Gum   Gluten   Nut    Cake    .  319 

Hot  Water  Sponge  Cake  .  319 

Marguerite   Wafers  .  320 

Plain  Cake 319 

Sponge   <  ake      ....  318 

Carrots 268 

Boiled 

Creamed 268 

Caudle 241 

i  m  li  flower 268 

Boiled 268 

Creamed 

Celery        268 

Boiled 


Creamed 

Soup 

"     (Diabetic)       .      .      . 

Toast 

Cereals      

Breakfast  Food 

Cruels 

Starchy   Jellies 
Charlotte,  Change   . 
Cheese 

Cheese  Wafers  . 
Cluten  Biscuit  Crisps  . 
Cluten  Cheese  Wafers 

Sandwiches 

Chicken 

Broiled   Chicken 
Chicken  Broth   . 

Broth   Jellv    .      . 
Salad    .      .      .      . 
Creamed   Chicken    . 
Jellied 
Roast  "         .  . 

Gravy     

Stuffing 

Trussing 

Scalloped  Chicken  . 
To  clean  Chicken    . 
Chocolate    (Walter    Bak- 
er's) . 
Chocolate   Blanc   Mange    . 
Bread    Pudding 
(  ustard 
"           Iff   Cream    . 
Milk  Shake 
"           Sauce     for      Ice 
Cream    . 
Chocolate  Syrup 

"  Vienna  Si 

Plain    Chocolate 

Chocolate    (I»d.)     . 
Cnoi's 

Chop    Broiled    in  Paper    . 
French    Chops    . 
Lamb  Chops  Broiled 
Mutton  Chops        " 
Pan   Broiled   Chops 
Cinnamon    Water 
Milk 
- 


PAGE 

268 
224 


Albuminized    Clam    V 


233 

242 
238 

244 
211 

276 
27t> 
261 
259 

156 

220 
222 
274 
1.57 
157 
154 
155 
154 
154 
157 
153 


301 
303 
289 
308 
1 35 

311 
136 

1 35 

134 
1 35 

151 
150 
150 
15(1 
150 
136 
197 
172 
123 


476 


INDEX  TO  RECIPES 


PAGE 

PAGE 

Clam  Bouillon   . 

174 

Cracker  Gruel   . 

239 

"      Bouillon  Bisque 

175 

Cracker  Panada 

126 

"      Broth        .      .      .      . 

173 

"         Pudding    .      .      . 

304 

"      Broth  No.  II      .      . 

220 

Crisped   Crackers    . 

229 

"      Broth  on  Toast  . 

258 

Date  Crackers    . 

260 

"      Frappe      . 

315 

Gluten  Cheese  Wafers 

261 

"      Sherbet     .      .      .      . 

312 

"         Biscuit  Crisps 

261 

"      Soup    

174 

Wafers  .      .      .      . 

261 

"      Stew 

174 

Marguerite    Wafers     . 

320 

"      Water       .      .      .      . 

173 

Toasted  Crackers    . 

256 

"      Water  No.  II       .      . 

173 

Cranberry  Jelly 

280 

Little  Neck  Clams 

172 

Cranberry    Sauce    . 

280 

Steamed    Clams 

172 

Cream  Sauce 

Cocoa   (Walter  Baker's)    . 

Cream  Sauce   (Fish)    . 

165 

Breakfast  Cocoa 

133 

"      (Macaroni). 

245 

"           Cocoa    (Ind.)    . 

134 

"       (Noodles)     . 

246 

"      ( Lactose ) 

133 

"      (Scalloped 

Cocoa   Junket    .      .      .      . 

294 

Dishes) 

271 

"             "            (Lactose) 

294 

Cream  Sauce    (Toast) 

257 

Malted  Milk  Cocoa      . 

134 

"      (Vegetables) 

271 

Codfish 

Cream  of  Tartar  Drink   . 

114 

Creamed  Codfish     . 

163 

Cream    (Whipped)    . 

305 

"          Codfish          (Dia- 

Croutons     

229 

betic  ) 

164 

Crumbs   (Buttered)        .      . 

246 

Coffee 

Crust  Coffee       . 

126 

Boiled  Coffee     . 

132 

Cucumber  Relish     . 

166 

Coffee    (Ind.)    .      . 

132 

Currant  Water  . 

115 

Coffee    (Lactose)     . 

133 

Cus'tards 

Coffee  Egg-nog  . 

120 

Baked  Custards  .      .     288 

-289 

"       Ice   Cream    . 

308 

Baked   Custard    (Lactose) 

290 

"      .Telly 

207 

Baked  Caramel  Custard   . 

290 

Filtered  Coffee  .      .      .      . 

132 

Chocolate  Custard  . 

289 

Malted    Milk    Coffee    .      . 

133 

Custard   Junket 

294 

Percolator  Coffee     . 

131 

Custard   Souffle 

292 

Peptonoids   Coffee  Jelly    . 

207 

Frozen    Custard 

311 

Condensed  Milk  . 

192 

Malted  Milk   Custard 

290 

Consomme 

228 

Soft    Custards     (Lactose) 

287 

Corn  Soup       

224 

White  Custard        .      .      . 

289 

( 'or x meal  Gems  ....  254 

Mush      .      .      .      .242 

Cornstarch  Pudding     .     .  295 

Cornstarch  Fruit  Jelly     .    295 

Pudding     .      .   295 

Malted  Milk  Blanc  Mange  296 

Pineapple   Cream    .      .      .   295 

(   l:  tCKEBS 

lira n  Crackers   ....   260 
Cheese  Wafers  .      .      .      .276 
Cracker       Crumbs       (but- 
tered)          246 


Dandelion  Greens 
Dates 
Date  Jelly    .      . 
"     and  Hominy 
"     Sandwiches 
"     Salad   .      . 
Dates 

"   Sauce   . 


.  269 

.  209 
.  243 
.  260 
.  275 
.  278 
.  281 


INDEX  TO  RECIPES 


m 


Dates   for   Young   Children 

Date  Bon    Bona 

Dates  and  Rice  . 

Date  Tapioca     . 
DE881  ire  (Frozen) 
itK  Cream 

Caramel  Ice  Cream 

Ice  Cream  No.  II 

Chocolate  Ice  Cream 

Coffee 

Frozen    Custard 

Grape  Ice  Cream    . 

Hot  Cocoa   Sauce  for  Ice 
Cream 

Malted  Milk  Ice  Cream   . 

Peach 

Raspberry         " 

Strawberry       " 

Vanilla 

Vanilla    (Lactose)    Ice 
Cream 
Ices 

Clam  Frappe" 

Fruit   Ice 

•  Jrape   Frappe" 

Lemon  Ice     . 

Orange  " 

"  No.  II 
"  Xo.  Ill 

Orange  Straws  . 

Pineapple  Ice     . 

Scalpicon  of  Fruit 
Sherbet    . 

(  lam    Sherbet    . 
ape  Ambrosia 

Grape  Sherl>et   . 

Lemon  Milk  Sherbet 


N 


II 


Malted  Milk 
Strawberry  " 

Strawberry  "     No.  II 

DESSERTS    (Hot  and  Cold) 
Bread   Puddings 
Chocolate   Bread   Podding 
Gluten  Brown  Betty 
Jelly  Bread  Pudding 
Lactose    "  " 

Lemon  " 
Orange  " 
Plain       " 


•AGE 

281 

282 

298 
301 
300 
306 
310 
310 
308 
308 
311 
309 

311 

310 
309 
309 
309 
307 

308 
313 
315 
314 
315 
314 
313 
314 
314 
315 
315 
315 
312 
312 
313 
313 
312 
312 
313 
312 
312 
286 
302 
303 
304 
303 
304 
303 
302 
302 


PAGE 

Cornstarch      or      Blanc 

Mange 295 

Cornstarch    Fruit   Jelly    .  295 

Cornstarch    Pudding    .      .  205 

Gum    Gluten      .                  .  296 

Irish  Moss  Blanc  Mange  297 

"     Jelly     .           .  297 

Malted  Milk   Blanc  Mange  296 

Nutritious  Wheat  Pudding  296 

Pineapple   Cream    .            .  295 

Cracker   Pudding                  .  304 

Walnut,  Biscuit  Crisps     .  305 

Plain   Cracker   Pudding    .  304 

Custards 

Baked  Custards    .         288-289 

Baked  Caramel  Custard   .  290 

or  Cup           '•          .  288 

Custard     (Lactose)  290 

Chocolate   Custard        .      .  289 

Malted   Milk     "            .      .  290 
White                 "  t         .      .289 

Soft  Custards   ....  287 

Almond    Pudding    .      .      .  288 

Banana  Custard-     .      .      .  288 

Floating  Island       .      .      .  288 

Meringue 288 

Orange  Custard       .      .      .  288 

Soft  Custard  No.  I       .      .  287 

"      Custard    (Lactose)     .  287 

"      Custard   (Diabetic)    .  288 

Junket     .      .      .      .      .      .  293 

Cocoa  Junket     ....  294 

Cocoa  Junket   (Lactose)    .  294 

Custard  "            ....  294 

Plain       "      (Lactose)         .  294 

Pudding    Sauces      .      .      .  305 

Foamy  Sauce     ....  305 

Fruit'         "         ....  306 

Hard           "         ....  305 
Orange       "         .      .      .      .210 

Whipped   Cream      .             .  305 

Whipped   Cream  No.   II    .  306 

Rice  Puddings   ....  297 

Boiled  Rice  ....  297 

Cream  oi  Rice  Pudding   .  299 

Peaches  and   Rice   .      .  298 

Plain    Rice    Pudding    .  299 

Rice  Meringue  ...  299 

Southern  Snow  Balls  298 


Steamed    Rice    ...         298 


478 


INDEX  TO  RECIPES 


PAGE 

PAGE 

Tapioca  Puddings   . 

.   300 

Egg  Sauce  No.  II  . 

166 

Apple  Tapioca  . 

.   300 

"      and    Brandy    . 

120 

Chocolate   Blanc   Man£ 

je    .    301 

"      Rum         .      . 

120 

Date   Tapioca    . 

.    301 

"      Wine        .      . 

120 

Pineapple  Tapioca  . 

.   300 

"      Sherry    Gruel 

241 

Plain 

.   300 

Filled  Eggs        .      .      . 

184 

Raspberry    " 

.   301 

Golden    Rod   Egg    . 

181 

Tapioca  Cream  . 

.   300 

Grape  Juice  and  Egg  . 

122 

Whips  and  Souffles 

.   290 

Grape  Yolk 

121 

Custard  Souffle 

.   292 

Hard  Cooked  Egg  . 

180 

Fruit    Whip       .      . 

.   291 

Junke   Egg-nog 

119 

Grape   Whip 

.   291 

Malted  Milk  and  Egg  . 

121 

Lemon   Souffle    . 

.   292 

Marguerite  Salad   . 

275 

Omelet  Souffle   .      . 

.   292 

Mulled   Wine     . 

122 

Peach  Meringue 

.   293 

Omelet    (Bread)      .      .      . 

182 

Strawberry  Whip   . 

.   291 

(Foamy)     .      . 

181 

Dressing  for  Poultry 

.    154 

(Meat)        .      . 

182 

"          "       Salads 

.   272 

Pineapple   Egg-nog 

120 

Dried  Fruit   Soup    . 

.   227 

Poached  or  Dropped  Egg  . 

182 

Dry       Peptonoids,       Sand- 

Egg in  Milk  .      . 

182 

wiches 

.   260 

Scrambled  Eggs  ( Coddled ) 
Shirred  Egg       . 

Eggs  No.  II    .      . 

183 

183 
183 

E. 

Soft  Cooked  Egg    .      .      . 
"    No.   II 

179 

180 

Eggs 

.    175 

"     Custard       .      .      .      . 

287 

Albuminized   Clam    Water  123 

Steamed  Eggs    . 

180 

"             Grape    Juice  123 

Stokes'   Mixture 

121 

Milk 

.    122 

Water  Lily  Salad   .      .      . 

276 

Orange 

.    123 

Whips    and   Souffles 

290 

Sherry    . 

.    123 

Evaporated  Milk             193 

-194 

Water 

.    122 

Albumin    Water    ( for 

In- 

F. 

fants) 

.    122 

Baked  Custard 

.   288 

Farina  Gruel     . 

239 

Baked  Eggs        .      .      . 

.    180 

Fish 

159 

"        Eggs    (Diabetic 

)     .    180 

Baked   Fish        .      .      . 

162 

Baked   Meat   Omelet    . 

.    182 

Baked   Fish    (Diabetic)     . 

164 

Beef   Egg-nog     . 

.    120 

Broiled   Fish      .      .      .      . 

162 

Coddled  Eggs  ( Scrambl 

ed)    183 

Creamed   Cod   Fish 

163 

Coffee   Egg-nog 

.    120 

Cod    Fish     (Dia- 

Egg  Broth    (Milk)       . 

.    118 

betic)       . 

164 

Egg  Broth    (Water)    . 

.   221 

Creamed   Fish    .      .      .      . 

163 

"      Broth    (Beef) 

221 

Fish     (Diabetic) 

164 

"      Lemonade 

.'    121 

Fish    (Diabetic)             .      . 

164 

"      Nests     .... 

.    181 

Halibut  a   la  Creole    . 

163 

"      -nog  No.   I 

.    119 

Scalloped   Fish 

163 

"      -nog  No.   II    .      . 

.    119 

Fish  Sauces 

165 

"      Sandwiches 

.    is:5 

Butter   Cream    .      .      .      . 

165 

*'      Sauce    .... 

.    165 

Cream   or  White  Sauce    . 

165 

IXDEX  TO  RECIPES 


\:\) 


page 

PAGE 

Cream  Sauce  (Diabetic)   .   165 

Coffee  Jelly 

.   207 

( Incumber   Relish    . 

.    166 

(roam      "            ... 

.   207 

Egg   Sauce    . 

.      .    165 

Date  Jelly    .... 

.   209 

8    Sauce  No.  II  . 

.    166 

Grape  Fluff 

.   211 

Hollandaise   Sauce 

.    166 

Grape   Jelly 

.   206 

Tomato  Sauce    . 

.      .    166 

Jell-0   and   Fruit    .      . 

.   212 

Flaxseed  Tea 

.    136 

Lemon    Jelly 

.   206 

Flaxseed  and  Licorice 

Tea  136 

Made  in  a  Minute  Dessert  212 

Floating  Island 

.      .   288 

Orange  Baskets 

.    206 

Floub  Gruel 

.      .   239 

"         Charlotte 

.   211 

Flour  Ball    . 

.   242 

"         Jelly       .      .      . 

.   205 

Frappe 

Jelly  No.  II    . 

.   206 

Clam    Frappe    . 

.   315 

Panopepton  Jelly   . 

.    208 

Grape 

.   315 

Peach  Jelly 

.   207 

Frosting     .... 

.   320 

Peptonoids   Coffee  Jelly 

.   207 

Frozen   Custard 

.   311 

Wine  Jelly 

.   205 

Frozen  Desserts  (See  ] 

Des- 

Peptonised   Milk  Jelly 

.    208 

SERTS) 

.   306 

Snow  Pudding  . 

209 

Fruits        .... 

.   276 

"         (Ind.)    . 

209 

Apples  —  Cuban   Stvle 

.   280 

Spanish  Cream 

210 

Baked      . 

.  279 

(Ind.) 

210 

Stewed     . 

.   27!) 

Strawberry  Mousse 

212 

Apricot   and  Prune   Si 

mce  280 

Wine  Jelly   .... 

204 

Baked    Banana 

.   280 

"     No.  II    .      . 

205 

Cranberry   Sauce  or  J 

ellv  280 

Sauces:  Served  with  Gel 

- 

Date       .      .    209,  243, 

260 

atin 

275.  278,  281,  282, 

298,  301 

Orange    .            ... 

.  210 

Figs,  Stewed 

.   282 

Soft  Custard     . 

287 

Lemon    Baked    . 

.   280 

Whipped  Cream 

305 

Orange  Baked    . 

.   280 

Gems 

No.  II    .      . 

.   281 

Cornmeal   Gems 

254 

Straws 

.    315 

White    Gems 

254 

Sunflower    . 

.   281 

Ginger  Bread 

320 

Pineapple 

.   278 

Ginger  Tea     .... 

137 

Prunes  Stewed  . 

.   281 

Grape  Juice 

Rhubarb  Steamed   . 

.   282 

Albuminized    Grape    Juice  123 

Fruit  Ice  .... 

.   314 

Grape  Ambrosia 

313 

Fruit   Punch 

.    117 

"        Frappe    . 

315 

Fruit  Pudding  Sauce 

.   306 

Fluff       .      .      . 

211 

Fruit  Salad   . 

.   275 

Jelly        .      .      . 

206 

Fruit  Sandwiches    . 

.   259 

"        Ice  Cream    . 

309 

Farm    Soup    . 

.   227 

"        Juice,  plain 

1  it; 

Fruit  Whip    . 

.   291 

"        Juice  and  Egg  . 

122 

Fruitade    .... 

.    112 

"        Lemonade     . 

112 

Lithia     .      .      . 

in; 

0. 

Nectar    .      .      . 

116 

Sherbet  .      .      . 

313 

Qame     Note  Poultry) 

.    152 

Water     .      .      . 

L15 

Gelatin             ... 

Whip      .      .      . 

291 

Bavarian    Cream 

'.    210 

Yolk        .      .      . 

121 

480 


INDEX  TO  RECIPES 


PAGE 

Gravy  fob  Roasts  .   .   .152 

"    "  Roast  Poultry  155 

Grouse,  Larded  .  .  .  .158 

Gruels 238 

Arrowroot   Gruel    .  .   238' 

Barley  Gruel      .      .  .238 

"    '         "     with  Broth   .    238 

"     of  Jellv   .      .    238 

Browned  Flour  Gruel  .      .    242 

Caudle 241 

Cracker  Gruel  .  .  .  .239 
Egg  and  Sherry  Gruel  .  241 
Farina  Gruel  .  .  .  .239 
Flour  Gruel       .      .      .      .239 

Flour  Ball 242 

Gum  Gluten  Gruel  .  .  240 
Indian  Meal  Gruel  .  .  240 
Oatmeal  Gruel  No.  I  .  .  240 
"  No.  II  .241 
"  No.  Ill  .  241 
Rice  or  Oat  Gruel  .      .      .238 

Rice   Jelly 244 

Tapioca   Jelly    ....   244 
Gum  Gluten  — 

Baked  Egg 180 

Biscuit 252 

"       Crisps      .      .      .      .261 
"       Gluten     ....   252 

Bread 252 

Breakfast  Food  .  .  .242 
Cheese  Biscuit  Crisps  .      .   229 

Crisps 256 

Cakes    (Gluten  Nut)    .      .319 

Fish 164 

"       Baked        .      .      .      .164 

"       Creamed  .      .      .164 

Creamed    Codfish    .      .      .164 

Gruel  or  Porridge  .  .   240 

Muffins 253 

Noodles 246 

Boiled  Noodles  .  .  .  246 
Noodles  Au  Gratin  .  .  246 
for  Soup  .  .  246 
White  Sauce  .  .  .  .246 
Puddings 
Brown  Betty  .  .  .  .304 
Walnuts,    Gluten   Biscuit 

Crisps 305 

Sauces 
Cream 246 


page 

White 246 

Soups 

Cream  of  Celery   .      .      .  225 

"  Tomato        .      .  227' 

Oyster 172 

Toast 

French 258 

Wafers 

Cheese 261 

Plain 261 


Halibut  a  la  Creole 
Ham  Broiled  . 
Hard   Sauce    . 
Hasty  Pudding    . 
Herb  Tea  . 
hollandaise  sauce 
Hominy  Mush     . 
Hot  Cocoa  Sauce 
Hot  and  Cold  Desserts 


/. 


163 
152 
305 
242 
137 
166 
243 
311 
286 


Ice  Cream 307 

Caramel  Ice  Cream  .310 

No.  II  310 
Chocolate  Ice  Cream  .  .  308 
Coffee  Ice  Cream  .  .  .  308 
Frozen    Custard      .  .311 

Grape  Ice  Cream    .  .   309 

Hot  Cocoa   Sauce  for  Ice 

Cream 311 

Malted  Milk  Ice  Cream  .310 
Peach   Ice  Cream    .  .   309 

Raspberry  Ice  Cream  .  .  309 
Strawberry  Ice  Cream  .  309 
Vanilla  Ice  Cream  .  .  .  307 
Vanilla       ( Lactose )       Ice 

Cream 308 

Ices 313 

Clam  Frappe     .  .315 

Fruit   Ice 314 

Grape  Frappe    .      .      .      .315 

Lemon   Ice 314 

Orange  Ice 313 

"  No.  II    .      .      .   314 

"  No.  Ill        .      .314 

"       Straws  .      .      .      .315 


IXDEX  TO  11  EC  I  PES 


m 


PAGE 

PAGE 

Pineapple   Ice    . 

315 

Lemon 

Jelly       .      .      . 

206 

Scalpicon    of    Fruits    . 

3 1  5 

"       Milk  Sherbet 

312 

Indian  Mkai.  GBUEL  . 

240 

"       Whey    .... 

108 

[bish  Mose 

Liquid  Peptonoids    . 

Blanc  Mange                     . 

207 

Liquid  Peptonoids  Cold 

215 

Jelly   . 

207 

■• 

Hot 

215 

Lemonade 

112 

M 

"    with    Wlm 

L98 

Peptonoids  Coffee  Jelly 

207 

/. 

tt 

Wine  Jelly 

205 

Lettuce 

Sandwiches     . 

250 

Jellies  (See  Gelatin)  .      . 

203 

Li. me  W. 

iTER    .... 

137 

Jelly   and   lee    . 

114 

Meat    Jellies             . 

221 

M. 

Starchy  Jellies 

244 

Tkll-0 

212 

Macaroni 

235 

.1.11-0   and   Fruit    .      .      . 

212 

Baked 

Macaroni 

245 

Made  in  a  Minute  Desserl 

212 

Boiled 

Macaroni 

245 

Jelly  Bread  Pudding    . 

303 

Boiled  Koodles  .... 

246 

Junket 

293 

Noodles  (Diabetic) 

246 

294 

it 

Au   Gratin 

246 

Custard  *;           .      .      .      . 

294 

Sauces  and  Accessories 

245 

Junket  Egg-nog 

110 

Buttered   Cracker   Crumbs  246 

Plain    Junket     . 

100 

Cream 

or   White   Sauce    . 

245 

Whey 

108 

tt 

Sauce    (Diabetic)  . 

246 

Tomato 

Sauce    .      .      .      . 

245 

K. 

Made  in 

a  Minute  Desseri 

.212 

KUMYSS 

MaItre   D'Hotel   Butter    . 

140 

Dr.  Brush's  Kumyss    . 

199 

Malted 

Milk    (Horlick's) 

Home-made   Kumyss    . 

198 

Malted 

Milk      .... 

104 

"     Blanc   Mange  2 

L. 

" 

"     Cocoa 

134 

(C 

"     Coffee       .      . 

133 

Lamb 

a 

"     Custard    . 

200 

Chops  Broiled  in  Paper    . 

151 

tt 

u     Ice  Cream 

310 

French    Chops    . 

150 

tt 

"     Plain        .      . 

104 

Lamb         "     Broiled 

150 

tt 

*     Sherbet    .      . 

313 

Pan  Broiled  Chops 

150 

<( 

"     and    Curranl 

i.i  mcv   Souffle   . 

202 

Jelly     .      . 

114 

Lemonade       

111 

Malted 

Milk   and    1 

121 

Effervescent  Lemonade 

111 

« 

"  with  Tamarinc 

116 

" 

121 

" 

"  with   Wine      . 

114 

Vr                              " 

111 

Matzoon 

100 

Crap--                        " 

112 

112 

Meat     . 
Broiled 

140 

[rig]    Iffoec 

Bacon    .... 

151 

■rose                   " 

111 

Curled 

.. 

151 

ipple               " 

111 

Broiled 

Ham     .... 

152 

Soda                        " 

111 

Broiled 

Sfak    .... 

149 

Baked       . 

■  ps 

>r  Birds  Broiled  in 

Bread   Pudding    .      . 

303 

Paper 

151 

Lemon  Ice 

314 

Lamb  Chops   Broiled    . 

150 

482 


INDEX  TO  RECIPES 


PAGE 

French  Chops    . 

.    150 

Mutton   Chops  Broiled 

.    150 

Pan  Broiled  Beef  Cakes   .    149 

Pan   Broiled  Chops 

.   150 

Roast  Meats 

.    152 

Gravy    .... 

.    152 

Scraped    Beef    . 

.    217 

Meat    Jellies 

.   221 

Beef   Jelly    .      .      . 

.    222 

Calf's  Foot  Jelly    . 

.   221 

Chicken   Jelly    . 

.   222 

Panopepton  Jelly    . 

.    208 

Peptonoids   Coffee  Jelly    .   207 

"             Wine  Jellj 

r      .    205 

Meat  Soups    (See  Broths)   217 

Meringue    .... 

.   288 

Rice  Meringue  . 

.   299 

Milk      .... 

.    184 

Albuminized  Milk 

.    122 

Baked  Milk       . 

.    194 

Brandy  and  Milk 

.    197 

Buttermilk  (Artificial 

.    199 

Cinnamon  and  Milk 

.    197 

Condensed  Milk 

.    192 

Evaporated  Milk    . 

193-194 

Junket     .... 

.    199 

Kumyss   .... 

.    198 

Milk  Toast  .      .      . 

.   257 

Malted  Milk       .      . 

.      .    194 

Matzoon   or   Zoolak 

.    199 

Modified  Milk    .      . 

.    192 

Pasteurization    . 

.      .    193 

Peptonised  Milk 

.      .    195 

Effervescent    . 

.      .    196 

By  the  Cold  Proces 

s      .    195 

"      <<     Warm  Proce 

ss   .    195 

Immediate  Process 

.      .    196 

Partially  Peptonisec 

I      .    195 

Specially          " 

.    196 

Rice    Milk    .      .      . 

.      .    197 

Rum  and  Milk  . 

.      .    197 

Sherbets 

.      .   312 

Sherry  and  Milk 

.      .    197 

Sterilization 

.      .    194 

Thickened  Milk 

.      .   239 

Whey       .     .      . 

.      .    198 

Acid   Phosphate 

.      .    113 

Lemon    . 

.      .    113 

Liquid    Peptonoids 

with 

Whey    .      .      . 

.      .    198 

PAGE 

Panopepton  with  Whey  .    198 

Wine  Whey      .      .  .113 

Minute  Tapioca  ....   300 

Miscellaneous  Beverages  .   127 

Cocoa    (Lactose)     .      .      .    133 

Cocoa   (Ind.)      .      .      .      .134 

Breakfast  Cocoa    .      .      .    133 

Malted  Milk  Cocoa    .      .134 

Coffee    (Lactose)     .      .      .133 

Boiled  Coffee    .      .      .      .132 

"     (Ind.)    .      .    132 

Filtered     "  .      .132 

Malted  Milk  Coffee    .      .133 

Percolator    Coffee       .      .131 

Chocolate 134 

Milk   Shake    .      .    135' 
"         Syrup  .      .      .      .130 
Vienna  Style       .    135 
"         Plain    .      .      .      .134 
"      (Ind)      .      .    135 
Special  Non-Nutritive  Bev- 
erages         136 

Bran  Tea 137 

Cinnamon   Water  .136 

Flaxseed  Tea   .      .      .      .136 
Ginger    Tea      ...      .    137 

Herb  Tea 137 

Lime    Water    .      .      .      .137 
Slippery  Elm   Tea      .      .137 

Tea  131 

Russian    Tea    .      .  .131 

Mock  Bisque  Soup  .      .      .  227 
Mousse,  Strawberry  .212 

Muffins 

Bran  Cakes 254 

Gum  Gluten  Muffins    .      .   253 
Mulled  Wine  .122 

Mush       (  See       Breakfast 

Food)        242 

Mutton   Broth    .  .      .219 

Mutton  Chops  Broiled       .   150 


N. 


Noodles   (Diabetic)  .   246 

Au  Gratin        .      .   246 

Boiled    ....   246 

Non-Nutritious    Beverages  136 

Bran  Tea 137 

Cinnamon  Water     .      .      .    136 


INDEX  TO  RECIPES 


{S3 


PAGE 

ad  Licorice  Tea   136 


II 


Flaxseed    Tea    . 

Gingei   Tea 



Lime  Water       .      .      .      . 
Slippery  Elm  Tea   . 
,  .  IOT78   DESSl  RTS 

Nutritious     Wheat     Pud- 
ding      

Nuts 


0. 


Oatmeal 
t  audle 

Oat  or  Rice  ( iruel 
Oatmeal  Gruel   . 
"     No. 
'•     No. 
Mush    . 
Water 
"      No. 

Ol  IV:      I  )IL        NlCELLE) 

Salads      .       .       . 
Salad   Dressings 
Onion  < 

•d      .      .      . 
Cn-amed 
Scalloped 
Soup 
Omelet 

Baked   Meat   Omel 
Bread  Omelet 
Foamy  Omelet 
Meat '  Omelet 
Omelet  Soutlle 
Oban 

Albuminized   Orange 
Baked  Orange   . 
Orange    Baskets 

Bread  Pudding 
Charlotte     . 
Custard 
Ice    . 
"     No.    II 
u     No.    Ill 
Jelly  No.  I 

No.  II 
Plain      .      . 
Sauce     . 


136 
137 
137 
137 

137 
286 

296 

283 


241 
238 
240 
241 
241 
243 
12.3 
120 


272 

273 

269 
269 
269 
22.3 

182 
182 
181 
182 
292 

123 
280 
206 
302 

211 
288 
313 
314 
314 
206 
206 
281 
210 


Shell 


Orange    Straws 

Sunllower 
( hrangeade    . 
Otbtebs 

Broiled    . 

(  reamed 

Creamed    No.    1 

Pan  Roasted 

Raw    .      .      . 

Roasted  in  the 

Scalloped 

Soup 

Soup    (Diabetic) 

Stew         .      .      . 

To  Wash  Ovster 


P. 

Panada    (Cracker) 

"  (Bread) 

Pax  Broiled  Beef  Cakes 
Panopepton     .... 
Panopepton    Bouillon    Hot 

Hot      .      . 
Ice    Panopepton 
Panopepton  Jellv 

with    Whey 
Pasteurization*    . 
Parsley  Butter  . 
Peas    Green    .... 
"      Canned    .... 
"      Creamed   No.    I 

No.    II    . 
Peach  Ice  Cream 
"      Jelly    .      . 
"      Meringue 
and  Rice    . 
Peptonised  MlIK 
Effervescenl 
By  the  Cold   Pre 

"     Warm   Pro 
Immediate     Proce&fl 
Partially   Peptonised    . 
Specially 

Peptonoids 

Dry   Peptonoidfl  Band- 

wichea       .... 

Liquid  Peptonoidfl  Cold 

Hot 


•AGE 

3 1 .3 
281 

112 

ltii) 

170 
170 
17D 
170 

169 

171 
171 

172 
172 

lti.> 


126 
127 
149 

228 
216 

2  it; 

208 
198 
193 
267 
269 
270 
270 
270 
309 
2(17 
293 
298 
L95 
L96 
195 
195 
196 
196 
196 


260 

2  1  -3 
21.3 


484 


INDEX  TO  RECIPES 


PAGE 


Liquid     Peptonoids 
Whey         .... 
Peptonoids  Coffee  Jelly 
Custard    . 
Wine  Jelly    . 
Phosphate    (Horsford's) 
Acid   Phosphate 

Whey 
Pineapple 
Pineapple 


with 


198 
207 
290 
205 

113 
113 


Cream  .  .  .295 
Egg-nog  .  .120 
Ice  ...  .  315 
Juice  .  .  .113 
"  Lemonade    .      .111 

Tapioca        .      .    300 

Pop-Overs 254 

Potatoes 265 

Baked 266 

Boiled 265 

Creamed 267 

Mashed 265 


Pudding  Sauces 

Foamy    Sauce 

Fruit 

Hard 

Orange        " 

Whipped   Cream 

"     No.  II 
Punch 

Fruit  Punch 

Tea         "  .      . 

Tutti  Frutti  Punch 


PAGE 

.  305 

.  305 

.  306 

.  305 

.  210 

.  305 

.  306 

.  117 
.  116 
.   117 


Quail 

Broiled 156 

Broiled  in  Paper  .  .  .151 
Breaded  Sauce  for  Game  .  ]o$ 
Larded    Quail    ....    158 


B. 


Potatoes  Au  Gratin 

.    267 

Potato   Balls      .      . 

.   267 

Raspberry  Ice  Cream   . 

.   309 

"       Cakes     .      . 

.   266 

Tapioca    . 

.   301 

"       in  Half  Shell 

.   266 

Rhubarb  Steamed     . 

.   282 

Faced  Potatoes  . 

.   265 

Water    . 

.    115 

Surprise  Balls   . 

.   266 

Rice 

.    234 

Poultry      .... 

.    152 

Boiled  Rice  .... 

.    297 

Birds  Broiled  in  Paper    .    151 

Cream  of  Rice  Pudding 

.    299 

Breaded  Sauce  for  Game  .    158 

Date  and  Rice  . 

.   298 

Broiled  Chicken 

.    156 

Peaches  and  Rice    . 

.   298 

Quail    .      . 

.    156 

Plain   Rice   Pudding    . 

.    299 

"         Small  Birds 

.    156 

Rice  Gruel    .... 

.    238 

"         Squabs 

.    156 

"       Jelly    .... 

.    244 

Creamed  Chicken    . 

.    157 

"       Meringue  . 

.   299 

Dry  Dressing   for   Stu 

ffing  154 

"       Milk     .... 

.    197 

General  Rule  for  Cleai 

ling 

"       Water        .      .      . 

.    125 

Poultry 

.    153 

"     Xo.  II    .      . 

.    125 

Gravy  for  Roast  Poult 

ry  .    155 

Steamed    Rice    . 

.    298 

Jellied    Chicken 

.    157 

Roasts  of  Meats 

.    152 

Larded  Grouse  . 

.    158 

Rum  and  Milk   . 

.    197 

"       Quail 

.    158 

Roast  Poultry    . 

.    154 

8. 

Dry  Dressing   . 

.    154 

Gravy 

.    155 

Salads        

.   272 

To  Bone  Birds  . 

.    155 

Chicken  Salad    .      .      . 

.   274 

To  Clean  Poultry 

.    153 

Date  and  Orange  Salad 

275 

To  Truss 

•  .    154 

Filled  Eggs 

.    184 

Scalloped  Chicken 

.    157 

Fruit  Salad        .      .      . 

275 

Prunes  Stewed   . 

.    281 

Marguerite  Salad    . 

275 

INDEX  TO  RECIPES 


485 


PAGE 

] 

►AG! 

Mixed      Salad  .      .      .      . 

275 

Alhuminized    Clam    Water 

123 

Sweetbread      " 

275 

Clam  Bouillon   .      .      .      . 

174 

Waldorf                       .       .      . 

275 

"      Bouillon  Bisque 

175 

Water  Lily       "        .      .       . 

276 

"      Broth        .      .      .      . 

173 

Balao  Accompanimkis  ra 

276 

"      Broth  No.   II      .      . 

22<» 

Cheese      Gluten      Biscuit 

"      Broth  on  Toast  . 

-:»n 

CriefM 

276 

"      Frappe      .      .      .      . 

315 

Cheese  Wafers  .      .      .      . 

276 

"      Sherbet     .      .      .      . 

312 

Salad  Dressings 

272 

"      Soup    .      .      .      .      . 

174 

Boiled    Dressing 

273 

"      Stew 

174 

(.ream    Dressing 

274 

"      Water        .      .      .      . 

173 

French          "               .       .       . 

273 

"      No.   II        .      . 

173 

Mayonnaise        . 

273 

Little  Neck  Clams 

172 

Saw  es  fob 

Steamed  Clams 

172 

[ce  (ream    i  Hot  Cocoa)    . 

311 

Sherbet 

Macaroni  and  Noodles  245 

-246 

Clam    Sherbet    . 

312 

Meat 

149 

Grape  Ambrosia 

313 

Scalloped    Dishes    . 

271 

Grape  Sherbet   .... 

313 

Fish 

165 

Lemon  Milk  Sherbet    . 

312 

Pudding 

305 

"      No.  II 

312 

Vegetable 

271 

Malted  Milk  Sherbet    .      . 

313 

Sandwiches 

258 

Strawberry   Sherbet 

312 

Boston  Brown  Bread   . 

250 

"       No.   II 

312 

Bread  and  Butter  . 

259 

Sherry    (Albuminized) 

123 

(  beese  Sandwiches 

259 

Sherry  and  Milk     . 

197 

Chicken           " 

259 

Slhppeby  Elm  Tea 

137 

Date                "                .      . 

260 

Sippets 

256 

Egg                  "                .      . 

183 

Soda  Lemonade    . 

111 

Fruit               "                .      . 

25!) 

Soft  Custard 

287 

Lettuce           "                .      . 

25!) 

Almond    Pudding 

288 

Nut                  "               .      . 

259 

Banana   Custard 

288 

Peptonoids     " 

260 

Floating  Island 

288 

Law   Beef       "                .      . 

217 

Meringue 

288 

Scalpicon   of   Fruits    . 

3ir, 

Orange   Custard 

288 

Scrambled  Eggs    (Coddled) 

183 

Soft  Custard  No.   1 

287 

Scraped  Beef             . 

217 

(Lactose)     . 

287 

Shell-Fish 

166 

(Diabetic) 

287 

Oysters 

166 

Souffles  or  Whips  . 

290 

Broiled 

170 

Soups     

223 

Creamed                   . 

170 

Asparagus  Soup    (  Cream ) 

223 

Creamed   No.   II    . 

170 

Clam  Bouillon   .      . 

174 

Pan   Roasted    . 

17D 

"      Bouillon  Bisque 

175 

Raw 

It','.) 

"      Soup    

174 

Roasted    in   the  Shell      . 

169 

Consomme 

228 

Scalloped 

171 

Cream  of  Asparagus    . 

223 

Soup 

171 

"  Celery     .      .      . 

22  4 

Soup    (Diabetic)    . 

172 

"         "  Celery         (Dia- 

Stew             

17- 

betic) 

225 

To  Wash  Oysters  . 

tag 

Cream  of  Corn 

224 

Clams       ..... 

172 

"  Onion 

225 

486 


INDEX  TO  RECIPES 


PAGE 

Cream  of  Pea  Soup     .      .   225 

"  Potatoes       .      .   220 

"  Rice  .      .      .      .220 

"  Tomato        Soup 

(Diabetic)  .      .   227 

Dried  Fruit  Soup   .      .      .227 

Meat  Soup 217 

Mock  Bisque  Soup  .      .      .    227 

Onion  Soup   (Diabetic)      .   220 

Oyster  Soup  .      .      .171 

"   (Diabetic)       .    172 

"       Stew       .      .      .      .172 

Panopepton  Bouillon    .      .   228 

Tomato   Soup  with   Broth  220 

Victoria  Soup    ....   228 

Soup  Accompaniments  .      .   229 

Crisped   Crackers    .      .      .    229 

Croutons 229 

Gum  Gluten  Crisps     .      .   250 
"           "     Biscuit  Crisps  229 
"     Noodles      .      .   230 
Toasted  Crackers    .      .      .   229 
Sponge  Cake  .      .      .      .318-319 
Special  Non-Nutritive  Bev- 
erages        130 

Bran    tea 137 

Cinnamon   Water    .      .      .    130 

Flaxseed  and  Licorice  Tea  130 

Tea       ...      .    130 

Ginger  Tea 137 

Herb  Tea 137 

Lime  Water       .      .      .      .137 
Slippery  Elm  Tea  .      .      .137 

Spinach 209 

Squabs,  Broiled  ....    150 

String  Beans       ....   270 

Starchy  Beverages  .      .      .    124 

Barley   Water    .      .      .      .124 

"  for   Infants    .    125 

Bread  Panada    .      .      .      .127 

Cracker   Panada      .      .      .    120 

Crust  Coffee       .      .      .      .120 

Oatmeal  Water       .      .      .125 

"     No.  II    .      .    120 

Rice  Water 125 

"     No.  II    .      .      .    125 

Toast  Water      .      .      .      .120 

Starchy  Jellies       .      .      .   244 

Barley  Jelly        .      .      .      .244 

Cornstarch  Jellies  .      .      .   295 


Rice   Jelly    .... 

Tapioca  Jelly     . 
Steak    (See  Beef)    . 
Sterilization  of  Milk  . 

244 
244 

149 
194 

Steamed  Clams   . 

172 

Stew,   Oyster 

172 

Stokes'  Mixture 

121 

Strawberry  Ice  Cream  . 

309 

"            Mousse  . 

212 

Whip     .      . 
Sugar  Syrup  .      .      . 

291 
110 

Sweet   Breads 

200 

Broiled 

201 

Creamed 

201 

No.   II 

202 

Fricasseed     .... 

202 

Parboiled  Sweet  Bread 

201 

Sweet  Breads  with  Peas 

202 

Sweetina    .... 

510 

Syrup    (Sugar)    . 

110 

T. 


Tamarind   Water  .      .115 

Malted   Milk        .    110 

Tapioca  (Minute)  .  .  .  300 
Apple  Tapioca  ....  300 
Chocolate  Blanc  Mange  .  301 
Date  Tapioca  .  .  .  .301 
Pineapple  Tapioca  .  .   300 

Plain  Tapioca    ....    300 
Raspberry  Tapioca  .301 

Tapioca  Cream  ....    300 
Tapioca    Jelly    ....    244 

Tea 

Bran   Tea      .  ...    137 

Flaxseed  and  Licorice  Tea  130 

Tea      ...      .    130 

Ginger  Tea 137 

Herb  Tea 137 

Russian  Tea  .131 

Slipperv  Elm  Tea   .      .      .    137 

Tea 131 

Tea  Punch 110 

Toast 255 

Celerv  Toast  .  .  .  .  257 
Clam'  Broth  Toast  .  .  .258 
Cream  Toast  .  .  .  .257 
"  No.  II  .  .  257 
Crisps   (Gum  Gluten)        .   256 


INDEX  TO  RECIPES 


487 


page 

Croutons 229 

French  Toast  (Diabetic)       268 

Gam    Gluten    Crisps 

"     Biscuit     Crisp  261 
Milk  Toast   .      . 
Sippets    . 
Toast   Crackers 
"       Sticks       . 


"       Water 

Water  Toast 

Tomato   Sauce  for 


256 
256 
256 
126 

256 
166 


Fish 
(For    Maca- 
roni and  Noodles)    .      .   245 
Tomatoes 

Baked 270 

Mock  Bisque  Soup        .      .   227 

Scalloped 271 

Stewed 270 

Soup  with  Broth  .  .  .  226 
Turkey  (See  Poultry)  .  152 
Tutti  Frutti  Punch  .    117 


V. 


Vanilla  Ice  Cream   .  .  307 

Vanilla       |  Lactose)       Ice 

Cream 308 

Veal  Broth 220 

Vegetables 261 

Asparagus  on   Toast    .      .  268 

Boiled 267 

Creamed 268 

Beet   Greens       .      .      .      .260 

Carrots 268 

Boiled 268 

Creamed 268 

Cauliflower 268 

Boiled 268 

Creamed 268 

Celerv 268 

Boiled 268 

Creamed 268 

Dandelion  C.reens   .  .  260 

Onions 289 

Boiled 260 

(reamed 269 

Scalloped 260 

Pea-.  Green        ....  269 

Canned  .  270 

Cream.d   No.    I  .270 


PAGE 

Peas,    Creamed    No.    II    .270 

Potatoes 265 

Baked 266 

Boiled 265 

Creamed 267 

Mashed 265 

Potato  Au   Gratin      .      .   267 

Balls    ....   267 

Cakes   ....    266 

Half   Shell      .      .   266 

Riced  Potatoes      .      .      .    265 

Surprise    Balls      .      .      .   266 

Spinach 260 

String    Beans  .      .270 

Tomatoes 270 

Baked 270 

Scalloped 271 

Stewed 270 

Vegetable   Sauces    .      .      .271 

Cream  or   White  Sauce    .    271 

Sauce  No.  II   .      .271 

Parsley  Butter  .      .      .      .267 

Vegetables  (Thrice  Cooked)   262 

Victoria  Soup     .     .     .     .228 

w. 

Waeers 

Cheese  Wafers  .      .      .      .276 

Gluten  Cheese  Wafers        .    261 

Marguerite  Wafers  .    320 

Water  (Albuminized)    .      .122 

Whey 

Acid    Phosphate      .      .      .113 

Lemon  113 

Liquid     Peptonoids      with 

Whey 108 

Panopepton   with    Whey    .    108 

Wine  Whey        .      .      /     .113 

Whipped  Cream    ....    305 

Whips  and  Soufeles  .   200 

Custard  Souffle  .      .      .      .202 

Fruit  Whip 201 

Crape  Whip  .  .  .  .201 
Lemon  Souffle  .  .  .  .202 
Omelet  Souffle  .  .  .  .202 
Peach  Meringue  .  203 
Strawberry  Whip  .  .  .201 
White  Sauce  for 
Fieh 165 


488 


INDEX  TO  RECIPES 


PAGE 


PAGE 


Macaroni 

.   245 

Noodles    .... 

.   246 

Scalloped  Dishes     . 

.   271 

Vegetables 

.  271 

Wine  Jelly  No.  I   . 

.   204 

No.  II  . 

.   205 

(Mulled)    .      . 

.    122 

Whey    .      .      . 

.    113 

Yeast 


Zoolak 


249 


199 


GENERAL  INDEX 


* 

- 


I 


GENERAL  INDEX 


A. 

PAGE 

Absorption 40 

of  Carbohydrates    ...     48 

"  Fats 48 

'  Mineral   Matter        .      .     49 

"  Protein 47 

"  Water 49 

Summary  of       ....     49 

Acid  Drinks 109 

Hydrochloric      .      .  ;*<>.  37 

Phosphate 113 

Acidosis  350 

Dietetic  Treatment  of        .    350 

Acids,  Fatty 20 

Vegetable 31 

Salts  of        .      .     31 

Aged,  Diet  for     ....   407 

Albumin,  Cooking  of  11 

Effects  of  Heat  on  .      .      .    178 

Albuminoids    ....     8,  140 

Albumins         9 

Albuminuria.  Diet  in    .      .   409 

Alcohol  in  Diabetes  .   357 

in  Pneumonia     ....    349 

"  the  Sick  Room    ...     83 

Alcoholics  as  Beverages   .     35 

Alg;e 284 

Allen's  Treatment  of  Dia- 
betes     356,  369 

Amivi-.uii.s  .  39 

Amusements    for    Nursing 

Mother 427 

Amtlopsin 45 

Anabolism 50 

Animal    Food     (See    Albu- 
mins, Proteins,  etc.) 
Antiseptics  in    Pood  Pres- 
ervation       ....     95 
Appendicitis,  Dim   in   .     .  404 
Appei in    |  Bee  Digesi  i 

in  Sickness 7."> 


(  See      Bever- 


page 


Appetizers 

ages) 
Apples 
Asparagus 
Assimilation 


B. 
Baby's   Stomach,   Capacity 

of 

Baking 

Beans   (See  Legumes) 
Beating  in  Cookery 

Beef 

Cuts  of 

Drippings 

Extracts 

Juice 

"      Absorption  of 
"     Care  in  Serving   . 
"     Composition    of    . 
Beef  Juice,  Substitutes  for  . 
"         vs.  Beef  Tea 
Preparations       .... 
Principles  of  Cooking 
Raw    .... 
Tea     ...      . 
"     Composition  of 
"     Nutritive  Value  o 
"     vs.    Beef   Juice 
"     vs.   Broth    . 
Tests  for  Good  . 
Beets    .... 
Beriberi 
Beverages 

Acid   .... 

"     Sweetening  of 
Albuminous 
Alcoholics 
as    Appetizers    . 
Beverages,    Miscellaneous 

Nutritive 


278 

266 

36 


35, 


431 

89 

90 
144 
146 

20 
214 
212 
213 
213 
212 
213 
213 
212 
212 
214 
213 
213 
214 
213 
218 
144 
264 

33 
109 
110 
110 
Us 

85 

36 
127 

35 


401 


492 


GENERAL  INDEX 


PAGE 

Sapid 35 

Stimulating  ....  35 
Thirst  Quenching  ...  35 
Special  Non-Nutritive  .  136 
Beverages,  Starchy  .  .124 
Digestion  of  .  .  .  .124 
Principles  of  Cooking  .      .    124 

Bile 38 

Body,  Composition  of  .  .  4 
Energy  Requirements  of   .      60 

Boiling 89 

Bottle  Feeding    ....   447 
Braizing     ....  .89 

Bran  Biscuit  for  the  Dia- 
betic   (Allen)    .  .  253 
Cakes     for     the     Diabetic 

(Joslin) 254 

Bread,  Composition  of  .  .  247 
Digestibility  of  .  .  .  247 
Energy  Value  of    .      .      .   256 

Fermented 249 

Gluten 248 

Making   of 249 

Nutritive  Value  of       .      .   247 

Puddings 302 

Toasted 255 

Unfermented  ....  250 
Breakfast  Foods  .  .235, 242 
Breast  Feeding  ....  423 
Bright's     Disease,     Acute, 

Diet   in 405 

Chronic,  Diet     ....   406 

Broiling 89 

Bromelin    ...  .      .   278 

Bronchopneumonia,  Diet  in  350 

Broth 217 

Composition  of  .  .  .  .217 
Energy  Value  of  .  .  .218 
Principles  of  Cooking  .  .217 
vs.   Beef  Tea      .      .      .      .218 

Butter 189 

Butterine 20 

Buttermilk 190 


C. 


265 
317 


Cabbage      

Cake 

General       Directions      for 
Making 317 


PAGE 

Calcium  Phosphate       .     .     29 

Calories 57 

Calorimeter 57 

Cane  Sugar     .  ...     14 

Description  of  .  .  .  .14 
Food  Uses  of     ....     14 

Sources   of 14 

Carbohydrates  ....  12 
Absorption  of  .  .  .  .48 
Classifications  of  .  .  .13 
Definition  of  ....  12 
Digestion  of       ....     40 

Function  of 12 

Metabolism  of  .  .  .  .52 
of  Animal  Food       .      .      .138 

Source  of 12 

Table  of  Food  Percentages 

of 368-372 

Carbonates 30 

Carrots 264 

Casein 9,  185 

Cauliflower 265 

Celery 265 

Cellulose        .      .      .      .17, 235 
Centigrade   Scale,   Change 

to  Fahrenheit  .      .      .    106 
Cereal  Breakfast  Foods    .   235 

Cereals 233 

Care  of  .  .  .  .  '  .  .237 
Composition  of  ...  234 
Digestibility  of  .  .  .  236 
Nutritive  Value  of  .  .  237 
Principles  of  Cooking  .      .   235 

Cheese 189 

Chicken,  How  to  Select     .   153 
Children   (See  also  Young 

Children)      .      .       455-460 

Children,  Feeding  Sick       .   460 

of  School  Age,  Diet  of       .   459 

Chlorides         29 

Chocolate 129 

Compared    with    Tea    and 

Coffee 130 

Nutritive  Value  of  .  .130 
Principles    of    Cooking    of  130 

Source  of 129 

Cinnamon        34 

Clams 168 

Varieties  of        ....    168 
Cloves        .      .      .    ' .      .      .34 


GENERAL  INDEX 


493 


PAGE 

Cocoa 129 

with   Lactose      .      .  .133 

Coduveb  Oil 20 

coffee,  effects  of  .  .    128 

Sources   of 128 

with    Lactose      .      .  .133 

Colic  in  Children,  Dietetic 

Treatment   of    .      .      .   460 

Collagen 10,  140 

colostbum 427 

Condiments 33 

Classification   of      ...      33 
Constipation,  Diet  in   .      .   396 
in  the  Mother    .      .      .      .426 
•'     '*     Nursling,        Treat- 
ment of  463 
Consumption     (See    Tuber- 
culosis) 
Convalescence,  Diet  in      .   330 
Cooking,  Beating  in  90 

Blending  in 90 

Cutting   in 90 

Folding  in 90 

Methods  of 88 

Objective  Points  of      .      .     88 

Principles  of      ....      89 

Processes,  Objects  of    .      .89 

Principal     .      .      89 

Stirring  in 90 

Success    in 88 

Suggestions  in  Methods  of 
WOrking   in    .  .      .90 

Crackers 260 

Cream 185,189 

CUBDS 190 

Softening 190 

\kd.    Son.    with    Lac- 
tose      287 

.  !M,  in  cookery       .      .     90 


Dairy  Products,  Table  of, 

with        Carbohydrate 

..  m     Alum  i 

:r.     FROZEN- 
MS,     XlTRITIOUS 

Dextrin       .... 
Dexteosi 

Description  of    . 


369 

306 

306 

40 

13 

13 


PAGE 

Food   Uses  of    .  .14 

Sources   of 14 

Diabetes 356 

Allen's    Starvation    Treat- 
ment   of 356 

Carbohydrate  Feeding  in  .   357 

Diet  in 356 

Low  Priced  Dietarv  in      .    367 

Test  Diet  in      .      .      .      .361 

Diabetic  Chart  (Joslin)    .   357 

Diarrhea,  Diet  in    .      .      .   399 

in  Young  Children,  Diet  in  462 

Diet  after  Laparotomy      .   415 

Animal,   Disadvantages  of 

Exclusive         .      .      .      .139 
Convalescent   (Einhorn)     .   330 
General  (New 
York     Hos- 
pital)   .      .   330 
Special    (New 
York     Hos- 
pital)    .      .331 

Diabetic 356 

Enteric 401 

Fluid,  Full 325 

(Einhorn)  .  326 
High  Calory  .  .  327 
Low  Nutritive 

Value  (Ein- 

horn)      .      .      .    323 
Medium       .      .      .    324 
(Einhorn)    325 
Mixed    .      .      .      .346 
without   Nutritive 
Value  (Ein- 

horn) .  .  .  323 
High  Calorie  in  Typhoid  .  340 
Hospital,  Types  of'.  .  .  323 
House,       Regular        ( New 

York  Hospital,    .    332 
"        Special    (New  York 

Hospital)        .      .    332 

Ideal 233 

Diet    in    Acute    Bright's 

Disease  405 

"  Gastritis      .   385 

"  Rheumatism  380 

"     Adolescence     .       .    465 

"     Appendicitis   .      .   404 

"     Albuminuria  .    409 


494 


GENERAL  INDEX 


PAGE 

Diet    in    Broncho-Pneumo- 
nia .      .      .      .   350 
"     Cancer        .      .      .412 
"     Chronic   Gastritis  385 
Gout    .   379 
"     Chronic  Intestinal 
Nephritis      (N. 
Y.  Postgraduate 
Hospital)     .      .   408 
in     Parenchymatous     Ne- 
phritis (N.  Y.  Postgrad- 
uate  Hospital)     .      .      .   407 
in  Colic  in  Children     .      .   460 
in        Colitis,        Ulcerative 
(Massachusetts    General 
Hospital )         ....   400 
in    Constipation      .      .      .   396 
in  Constipation       (Massa- 
chusetts    General     Hos- 
pital)     398 

in  Convalescence  from  Fe- 
ver         330,335 

in  Convalescence  from  Gas- 
tric Diseases    (Dr.  T.  C. 
Janeway)         ....   395 
in  Convalescence  from  Ty- 
phoid Fever    ....   344 
Diet  in  Diarrhea     .      .      .   399 
in  Diarrhea  in  Young  Chil- 
dren       462 

in   Diphtheria    ....   348 

in    Disease 334 

in  Diseases  of  the  Genito- 
urinary System   .  .   405 
in   Disorders  of   Nutrition  356 
in   Dysentery      ....    399 
in   Dyspepsia      ....    396 

in    Fevers 334 

in  Gastric    Diseases     .      .   385 
in  Gastric  Hyperacidity    .    388 
in  Gastric  Ulcer    (see  Ul- 
cer of  Stomach)        .      .   389 

in  Gout 377 

in  Infectious  Diseases  .  334 
in  Intestinal  Diseases  .  396 
in  Intestinal  Putrefaction  403 
in  Lithemia  ....  376 
in  Lying-in  Period  .419 
in  Marasmus  in  Infants  .  463 
in   Mumps 351 


page 
in  Nervous  Disorders  .      .411 

in    Obesity 382 

in  Obesity    (Massachusetts 
General   Hospital)     .      .   383 

in  Old  Age 467 

in     Oxaluria      (Massachu- 
setts General  Hospital)    381 
in   Pneumonia    ....   349 
in    Prematurity       .      .      .   462 
in    Pregnancy    .      .      .      .417 

in   Quinsy 347 

in  Rickets  in  Infants  .  .  463 
in  Scurvy  in  Infants  .  .  463 
in  Seasickness  ....  418 
in  Skin  Diseases  .  .  .411 
in  Surgical  Cases  .  .  .  413 
in  the  Sedentary  .  .  .  466 
in  Tonsilitis  ....  347 
in  Tuberculosis  (especially 
Pulmonary  Consump- 
tion)      352 

in  Typhoid 337 

in    Typhoid    Late    Conva- 
lescent   (Dr.  F.  P.  Ken- 

nicutt) 345 

Ulcer  of  the  Stomach.      .   389 
in    Ulcer   of    the   Stomach 
(Lenhartz)      ....   393 

in    Ulcer   of   the    Stomach 
(Massachusetts    General 
Hospital)         .      .      .      .393 

in    Ulcer   of   the    Stomach 
(Dr.  T.  C.  Janewav,  N. 
Y.)        .......   395 

in  Ulcerative  Colitis    .      .   400 
in    Uremia    (N.    Y.    Post- 
graduate Hospital)        .   408 
in      Vomiting      of      Preg- 
nancy          418 

in  Whooping  Cough     .      .351 
Diet,  Lenhartz,  in  Gastric 

Ulcer        .      .  .      .   393 

Liberal,  in  Tvphoid  Fever  339 

Light 330 

Liquid    (see  Fluid). 

Low   Fluid 323 

Meat,   Exclusive      .      .      .51 
Medium  Fluid   ....   324 

Milk         327 

Mixed 346 


GENERAL  IS  HEX 


495 


PAGE 

Modified     Milk,     for     Ty- 
phoid Fever    .      .       328,342 
of  Nursing   Mother  .  419 

of  Wet  Nurse    .      .      .      .419 

Salt-free        407 

Schmidt's  Intestinal      .       .    402 
Schmidt's              Intestinal 
(Modified      by      Massa- 
chusetts    General     Hos- 
pital)   403 

Soft  or  Semi-solid        .      .    328 
■Soft,    for    Typhoid    Conva- 
lescents       344 

Starvation  in  Diabetes  357,  359 
Starvation  in  Typhoid  .  337 
Vegetable  vs.  Animal        .   233 

Sugar-free 375 

Test 403 

DIETARIES    FOR    YOUNG    CHIL- 
DREN      457 

Hospital        .      .      .        323-333 

Digestion         36 

Evidences  of  in  the  Sick  .  74 
of   Carbohvdrates    ...     40 

•    Fats 40 

44    Protein 36 

""  "       in    Intestines    .      38 

in    Stomach  36 

"       Products   of     37,39 

Summary    of    .      39 

u    Starch      .      .      .      .      .     40 

Products    of     .     41 

""        "         Summary    of    .     41 

"    Sugars     .....     42 

Products    of     .     42 

"        "  Summary   of     .     42 

Salivary 41 

-      *  Rate  of  .      .     45 

Resume  of      .      .     43 
Diphtheria,  Diet  in  .   348 

Disease,  Acute,  Feeding  in  73 
Disinfection  of  Utensils  84 
Drinks.    Arm        ....    110 

Cold 109 

Hot 109 

DBJPPTNGS,  Bed  ....  20 
Drugs  and  Mother's  Milk  421 

DTSEIfTEBT        (ACUTl      C'OLI- 

.   Dm    in  .   399 

Dyspepsia,  Diet  in  . 


/;. 


PAGE 
.  175 

.  175 
11-12 
.  176 
US,  17!) 
.  177 


Eggs 

Composition    of 
Cooking  of    . 
Digestibility    of 
Energy   Value  of 
Nutritive    Value    of 
Principles    for    Cooking    .    178 
Suggestions    Concerning    .    178 
Test    for    Fresh       .      .      .178 
Varieties    of       ....    176 
Enteric  Diet        ....   401 
Equivalents,  Table  of  Me- 
tric      101 

Erepsin 39 

Excretion 53 

Extractives,         Nitrogen- 
ous      ...       11,138,144 
Extracts,  Flavoring     .      .     34 


Fahrenheit  Scale,  Change 

to   Centigrade    .  .106 

Fasting  Treatment  of  Dia- 
betes   ....       356-359 

Fat        19 

Absorption   of    .  .48 

Animal 138 

Cheap  forms  of  .  .  .21 
Definition   of      .      .  .      19 

Description  of    .  .20 

Digestibility  ....  22 
Digestion  of"  ....  40 
Function    of  .21 

Metabolism  of   .  .52 

Percentages     in     Modified 

Milk     ...  .      .   444 

Principles  of  Cooking        .      22 

Sources   of 21 

Tests    for 23 

vs.  Carbohydrate  as  Food     23 

Value    of    in    Tuberculosis  353 

354 

Feeding.  Details  of  76 

Forced 78 

in   Acute  Disease    .  73 

Infant       ....        422-454 

Artificial       433,  437-454 

Breast      .      .      .      .423 


496 


GENERAL  INDEX 


PAGE 

PAG*1 

Feeding,  Formulas  for  443- 

-446 

Classification  of 

r,o 

"       Normal  and  Abnor- 

Composition  of 

4 

mal       .... 

450 

Concentration    of    . 

95 

"       Top  Milk  Method  of 

444 

Definition   of 

4 

Nasal 

79 

Determination    of    Energy 

7 

of  older  Infants 

451 

Value  of    .      . 

58 

"    Young   Children       455-460 

Effects  of  Heat  on 

88 

F.ectal 

79 

Fly    Pollution    of    .      . 

.     94 

Sick    Children    .      .       460 

-463 

How  to  Serve    . 

86 

the  Helpless  Patient   . 

78 

Methods   of   Cooking    . 

88 

"     Sick        ....     72-84 

Liquid    (Fluid) 

323 

"     Sleeping  Patient   . 

78 

Nitrogenous 

8 

"     Unconscious      Patient 

78 

"             Classificatioi 

l 

Fever,  Diet  in     ... 

334 

of     .      . 

8 

Diet  in  Convalescence  from 

335 

"             Source  of 

9 

Diet  in  Typhoid    (see  Ty- 

Non-Nitrogenous 

12 

phoid  Fever ) . 

Object   of      ...      . 

3 

Firrin         

10 

Poisoning      .... 

93 

Figs 

278 

Predigestion  of 

96 

Fish,  Fresh 

159 

Preservation 

95 

Fresh,  Composition  of 

160 

by  Antiseptic 

5     95 

Fresh,  Digestibility   of 

159 

"    Drying 

95 

Fresh,  Energy  Vaiue  of    . 

161 

"    Exclusion 

Fresh,  Nutritive  Value  of 

160 

of  Air 

95 

Fresh,  Principles  of  Cook- 

"           "    Freezing. 

95 

ing        

161 

Quantity   and   Quality   of 

Fresh,  Sauces     ... 

165 

for   Sick    .... 

76 

Fresh,  Season  for   . 

161 

Soft    (Semi-Solid) 

328 

Fresh,  Tables  of  Carbohy- 

Source of      ... 

4 

drate      Percentages      in 

Storage   of    ...      . 

93 

(Allen) 

369 

Temperature   of,    for    Sic! 

:     76 

Test  for  Freshness  of  . 

161 

Values 

54 

Salt 

160 

"        According  to  Indi 

Fletcher,  Mr.,  on  Mastica- 

vidual  Serving 

71 

tion     

41 

Tabulation  of       ( 

14-71 

Folding  in,  in  Cookery     . 

90 

Vegetable 

231 

Food  Accessories 

1,  33 

"         Carbohydrates  o 

f  232 

Adjuncts       .... 

i,  33 

"         Composition    of 

31 

Adulteration    of 

97 

Digestibility  of 

232 

Animal 

138 

Fats   of    .      . 

232 

"       Carbohydrates      of 

138 

"         Mineral      Mattel 

"       Composition  cf 

138 

of     .      .      . 

232 

"       Digestibility    of     . 

139 

"         Protein  of 

232 

Extractives  of   ...      . 

138 

Water    of       . 

232 

Mineral  Matter  of 

139 

Washing  of   Uncooked 

93 

Animal,   Proteins    . 

138 

Formula  for  Infant  Feed 

Water   of        .      . 

139 

ing 

443 

Care  of 

92 

Fowl,  How  to  Select  . 

153 

"      "  in     Markets     and 

Freezing,    General    Rules 

» 

Kitchens 

92 

for 

307 

GENERAL  IXDEX 


497 


PAGE 

307 
89 

27»; 

276 

277 
279 

277 

'  278 
278 
•27  B 
27!) 
277 
89 


370 

284 


in  Small  Amounts 
Fricasseeing 
Fruits 

as    Ballast    . 
Composition  of 
Digestibility  of 

Dried        .    *  .      . 
Flavoring  Principle  of 
(Fresh)     and    Vegetables 

Agreement   between 
Fuel  Value  of   . 
Nutritive  Value  of 
Precautions  in   Use  of 
Sugar-content    of    . 

Frying        

"       Table   of,    with    Car 
bohydrate  Con 

tents       . 

Fungi 

G. 


Galactose 42 

Game  ( See  Poultry ) . 

Gastric  J  lice     ....     37 

Ulcer 389 

-      Diet    in    .      .        389-395 

Gastritis,  Acute,  Diet  in  .  385 
Chronic,  Diet  in  385 

Gavage 461 

Gelatin 10,203 

Digestibility  of        .      .      .   203 

Nutritive    Value    of     .      .   203 

Principles  of  Cooking  .      .    203 

urce   of 203 

<  .i  i  atinoids     ....      8,  140 

GlNGEB 34 

Glucose   (See  Dextrose). 
Glitter   Bread     ....  248 

Standards 249 

i.  Aci  if:.    Diet  in    .      .    377 

Chronic,    Diet    in    .      .      .   379 
Grapi     si  gas     (See     Dex- 

TROfl 

Grapi  - 278 

Gruels       ....      236, 2:;^ 
Gums L8 

H. 

Beat,      Average      Normal 

I  Hi!".- 1   i  bom  Boot  62 


page 
Effects  of  on  Albumin      .    178 
Helpless,  Feeding  the  78 

Horse-radish  ....  34 
Hospital  Dietaries  323-333 
House  Diet,  Regular    .     .332 

Special 332 

Hydrochloric  Acid   .      .     30, 37 


Ice  Box  and  Contents  91 

"     Home  Made              .  437 

Ice    Cream 307 

Vanilla,  with  Lactose       .  308 
Ice,    Keeping    of    in    Sick 

Room 83 

Ices 313 

Infant  Feeding   ....  422 

Artificial 433 

Breast 423 

Calorie  Values  of   .      .      .  445 

Fat  Percentages  in       .      .  444 

Formulae   for      ....  443 

Normal 450 

Table    of    Proportions    for 
Healthy  Child      .      .      .457 
Intestinal   Diseases,   Diet 

in         396 

Iron 29 

J. 

Jellies,   Meat      .      .      .      .221 

Starchy    ....             .244 
Joslin'sTreatment  of  Dia- 
betes     35G 

Juice,  Gastric     ....     38 

Intestinal 

Pancreatic 38 

Junket       ....       190. 293 

with   Lactose      .      .  .294 

K. 

Katabolism 50 

Kefir 192 

KlMYSS 1(1] 


/.. 


Lai  iai  bi  ion 


185 


498 


GENERAL  INDEX 


PAGE 

Lactase 42, 186 

Lactose 14, 185 

Bread  Pudding        .      .      .304 

Lemonade Ill 

Lamb 145 

Cuts  of 148 

Tests  for  Good        .      .      .145 
Laparotomy,   Diet  after    .   415 

Lavage 461 

Lecithin 20 

Legumes 263 

Composition    of  263 

Digestibility    of       .      .      .   263 
Principles  of  Cooking        .   263 

Levulose 43 

Lichens 284 

Lime  Starvation       ...     32 

Lipase         40 

Lithemia,  Diet  in    .      .      .   376 
Lying-In  Period,  Diet  in   .  419 


M. 


Macaroni   ....       235-245 

Magnesium 29 

Phosphate 29 

Maltase 40 

Maltose 40 

Marasmus  in  Infants,  Die- 
tetic Treatment  of     .   463 

Mastication 41 

Matzoon 192 

Measures         98 

Apothecaries'  .      .      .100 

Approximate  ....  100 
of  Volune,  Metric  System  101 
"  Weight,  Metric  System  101 

Table   of 99 

Measuring    Cup,    Standard     98 

Meat 140 

Absorption   of    ...      .    141 

Broiling  of 142 

Composition   of        ...    140 

Cooking         142 

Cuts  of  ....  143.  146 
Digestibility  of  141 

Effect  of  Cooking  .  .  .141 
Effects  of  Water  on  .  .  143 
Energy   Value  of    .      .      .149 


page 
Nutritive  Value  of      .      .140 

Quality   of 143 

Table    of,    with    Carbohv- 
drate    Content     (Allen)    369 


Uncooked 
Metabolism 


141 


52 
52 

51 
.  101 
.     35 

185,186 
.  187 
.  187 
.  184 
.    192 


Jellies 


204,218,221 


of     Carbohy- 
drates 
"      Fat    .      . 
"      Protein   . 
Metric    System    .... 
Milk  as  a  Beverage 
Ash   of    . 
Care  of    . 
Certification    of 
Composition  of 
Condensed     . 
Difference  between  Human 

and  Cow's  .  .  .  .434 
Digestibility  of  .  .  .185 
Energy  Value  of  .  .  .193 
Fats  of    ...      .        185,  186 

( See  Cream,  Butter ) . 
Fermented     .      .  .      .191 

Formulas  from  Whole  .  444 
Home  Modification  .  .  446 
Human,  Drugs  in   .  421 

Metschnikoff's    Artificially 

Soured 191 

Modification       ....   438 
"  what   Dilution 

to  Use    .      .   440 

Modified 192 

Mother's,  Composition  of  434 
Nutritive  Value  of  .  .185 
Pasteurization  of  .  .  .188 
Peptonized    .      .      .        192,439 

Protein 439 

Quantity  to  Use  in  Infant 

Feeding 431 

Skimmed 186 

Sour 190 

Sterilization    of  188 

Top,  Modification  .  .  .  444 
Whole,  Modified  .  .  .440 
Mineral  Matter  ...  29 
Absorption  of  ....  49 
Amount    and    Kind    of    in 

Body 29 

Function  of  ....  29 
Importance  of    .  .  31 


GENERAL  INDEX 


499 


PAGE 

in    Plants 

31 

in   Animal    Food 

.    30 

,139 

Source  of 

30 

(Jaefl   of    in    Disease 

32 

MOSS,     ICELANR 

285 

Irish          .... 

285 

Mouth,    Cleansing    of, 

BE- 

fore    Feeding 

77 

Mr mps,  Diet  in  . 

351 

Mushrooms 

284 

Mustard     .... 

34 

Mutton       .... 

145 

Cuts  of    ...      . 

148 

Test  for  Good    .      . 

14r, 

Myosin 

V. 
Xasal   Feeding    . 

10 

,140 

79 

Nervous  Disorders,  Die' 

r  in 

411 

Nitrogen   Balance    . 

54 

Nursing  Bottle  . 

447 

Mother,  Diet  of 

425 

Schedule    of 

429-4: 

Technique   of 

427 

Nursling   (See  Infant 

AND 

Children  | . 

Nut  Butters 

283 

Flours      .... 

283 

Nutmeg      .... 

34 

Nutrition 

36 

Conditions  for   Perfect 

7 

Diet  in  Disorders  of 

35G 

Nuts 

<>83 

Composition   of 

283 

Cooking  of    . 

283 

Digestibility  of 

284 

Nutritive   Value   of 

284 

0. 

Obesity,  Diet  in 

382 

Oils 

V.) 

Volatile    .... 

21 

f  )I  KIN 

20 

Oranges     .... 

277 

Oleomabgarin 

20 

Onions         .... 

26  4 

Ovariotomy,  Diet  amii 

t 

415 

Otsti  ss      .... 

100 

Composition  of 
Digestibility    of 
Energy  Value  of 
Principles  for   Cooking 
Season   for    .  .      . 

Variety  of    ...      . 


page 

107 
107 
169 
1(17 
107 
L68 


20 


Palmitin 

Pancreas,  Internal  Secre- 
tion of  and  Diabetes  .   356 
Pancreatic  Juice     ...     38 

Parsnips 204 

Pasteurization    .      .      .      .193 
Apparatus  for    ....    194 
Peas    (  See  Legumes  | . 
Pectin   Bodies      ....   277 

Pepper        34 

Pepsin  37 

Action  of 37 

Peptones 37,39 

Peptonization      .      .      .      .192 
Percentage  Solutions,  Ta-  • 

bles  fob  Preparing  .  104 
Phosphorus  .  .  .  .  20, 29 
Physicians'  Directions  for 

Feeding  the  Sick   .  72 

Pineapples 278 

Pneumonia,  Alcohol  in      .   350 

Diet  in 349 

Polysaccharides       .  10-19 

Pork 145 

Potassium 29 

Potatoes 264 

Energy  Value  of    .      .      .   265 

Poultry 152 

Digestibility    of       .      .      .    152 

General   Rule   of   Cleaning  153 

Principles  of  Cooking        .    153 

Pregnancy,  Diet  in  .  417 

Vomiting  of,  Diet  in   .      .   418 

Prematurity,  Feeding  in  .  462 

Protein,  Absorption  of  47 

Acid 38 

Alkaline         :;:» 

Animal 138 

Cooking  of 11 

Digestion,   Table  of      .      .     3!> 
Function    of        ....      10 


500 


GENERAL  INDEX 


PAGE 

in  Tuberculosis       .      .      .  352 

Metabolism  of    .            .  51 

Milk         439 

Vegetable 10 

Proteoses        39 

Prunes 278 

Ptomaine  Poisoning       .      .  93 

Ptyalin            40 

Puddings,  Bread        .      .      .  302 
Punctuality     in     Serving 

Meals 75 

Purins 11 

Putrefaction,    Intestinal, 

Diet   in 403 


0. 
Quinsy,  Diet  in  . 
R. 


347 


Radishes 264 

Rectal  Feeding   .      .      .     79-83 

Formulae  for      .      .      .      .82 

Technique  of      .      .      .      .81 
Reflex,  Pharyngeal      .      .41 

Pyloric 38 

Regurgitation      .      .      .      .460 

Rennin 37 

Rheumatism,    Acute,    Diet 
in 380 

Chronic,   Diet   in    .      .      .381 

Rice 234 

Rickets    in    Infants,    Die- 
tetic Treatment  of  33,463 
Roots 263 


flf. 

Saccharin 
Salad   Dressings 
Salads 
Salsify      .      .      . 


.  .  15 
.  .  272 
.  .  272 
.  .  264 
Salt  (See  Sodium  Chlor- 
ide)       34 

Sandwiches 258 

Sauces 34 

Salt  Starvation   ...  32 
Scurvy,   Infantile,   Die- 
tetic Treatment  of  33,  463 


PAGE 

Seasickness,   Dietetics    of  418 
Sedentary,  Diet  of  .      .      .  466 

Shell-Fish 166 

Sherbets 312 

Sick,  Appetite  of     ...     75 

Feeding  the  ...     72 

Room,  Alcohol  in    .      .      .83 

"       Ice   in      .      .      .      .     83 

Skin  Diseases,  Diet  in     .411 

Sodium 29 

Chloride         30 

"         as  a  Condiment  .     34 

Soup 223 

Accompaniments  .      .    229 

General  Rule  for  Blending  223 

Spices 34 

Spinach 265 

Starch 16 

Cooking  of 18 

Description  of  .  .  .  .  17 
Digestion  of  ....  40 
Food   Uses   of    .      .      .      .17 

Source   of 17 

Test  for 19 

Starvation    Diet    in    Dia- 
betes          356 

Steak,   Broiled    .      .      .      .149 

Steaming 89 

Steapsin   (See  Lipase). 

Stearin 20 

Sterilization       .      .      .      .194 

Stewing 89 

Stirring  in  Cookery     .      .     90 

Stomach 36 

Capacity  of  Baby's      .      .431 

Fundus   of 37 

Pyloric   Sphincter  of    .      .38 

Tube,    Use   of    ....     79 

Strontium       .....     32 

Sucrase 42 

Sugar 13 

Dietetic  Uses  of  .      .15 

Digestion    of      ....     42 

Invert 277 

of  Milk   (See  Lactose). 

Starvation 359 

Substitutes  for        .      .      .15 

Tests    for 16 

Use  of  in  Cookery       .      .      15 
Sulphur     .     .     .     .     .     .29 


. 


GENERAL  INDEX 


501 


PAGE 

Surgical    Cases,    Dietetic 

Management  of  .413 


Sweetbreads    . 

200 

Definition    of 

200 

Digestibility    of 

200 

Energy   Value  of 

201 

SWEETINA     . 

15 

,110 

Syntonin    . 

10 

T. 

Tallow       .... 

20 

Tea         

127 

Active  Principles  of 

127 

Effects    of     .      .      . 

128 

Test  Diet  in  Diabetes 

361 

-367 

"      Intestinal 

402 

Thermometry 

106 

Top  Milk   Method 

444 

Toast 

?55 

Tray      .... 

85 

Arrangement    of 

85 

Tubers    (See  Roots) 

263 

Tuberculosis,  Diet  in 

352 

-354 

Typhoid  Fever,  Diet  in 

337 

-347 

Fluid        .... 

342 

-347 

High  Calory 

340 

Liberal 

338 

u. 


Ulcer,  Gastric,  Diet  in  389-395 
Convalescence  from  .  .  395 
Convalescence,        Lenhartz 

Diet  in 393 

Convalescence,     Massachu- 
setts   General    Hospital, 

Diet   in 393 

Unconscious,    Feeding   the     78 
Uric     Acid     Excess      (See 

Lithemia). 
Utensils,   Disinfection   of    84 


Veal 

Test  for  Good    . 
Vegetable   Sauces 
Vegetables 

Classification    of 


144 
14.", 
271 
261 
261 


PAGE 

Composition    of  261 

Digestibility    of       .      .      .   262 

Green 265 

Principles  of  Cooking        .  '262 
Table    of,    with    Carbohv- 

drate    Content     (Allen)   368 
Thrice     Cooked,     for     the 
Diabetic    (Joslin)      262,  360 

Vinegar 34 

Viscera,       Animal,       Food 

Uses  of 144 

Vomiting,  Diet  in    .  .  418 

in    Young    Children,    Die- 
tetic Treatment  of    .      .   460 


W. 


Wafers 260 

Water         23 

Absorption   of    .  .49 

Alkaline 28 

Boiled 27 

Carbonated 27 

Classification    of  .      .25 

Composition   of        ...     23 

Distilled 27 

Drinking 25 

Filtered 26 

Food  Uses  of  .  .  .  .25 
Functions    of  .24 

Hard 25 

in  Animal   Food  .      .139 

Properties    of  .23 

Rain         26 

Soft 25 

Sources  of 24 

Spring 26 

Temperature  of  ...  28 
Well         26 

Weaning 453 

from    Bottle       ....   454 

Weighing  of  Baby    .  .   433 

Weight  of  Infant  .  .  .  4.T2 
"  Old  Men  .  .  469 
"      *'     Women        .   469 

Weights 98-101 

Apothecaries',    Table   of    .      99 

Wet    Nurse 41!) 

Diet   of ,419 

Whooping   Cough,   Diet   in  351 


502 


GENERAL  INDEX 


Y. 


PAGE 

Young    Children,    Caloric 

Requirements  of  .  .  457 
Dietaries  for  ....  457 
Feeding  of,  General  Rules 

for 456 

Percentage      Requirements 
of    Food 457 


PAGE 

Protein  Requirement  of    .   459 
Sick,     General     Principles 
of    Feeding    ....   460 


Zwieback 


19 


It  is  delicious,  pure  and  healthful 

Baker's 

Breakfast 

Cocoa 

EXCELS   IN  ALL  THE 

ESSENTIALS  OF  A 

GOOD  COCOA 

IT    has    the    delicious    natural 
*•    flavor  of  the  best  cocoa  beans, 
scientifically      blended,     unim- 
paired   by  the   addition   of  any 
foreign  flavoring  substances. 
Its   purity  is  unquestioned, 
samples    purchased    in   the 

BegisteredU.S.Pat.Oince    open    market     serving    as 

standards  lor  chemical  re- 
search. It  is  healthful,  supplying  the  body  with  some 
of  the  purest  elements  of  nutrition  in  a  most  agreeable 
form.  These  qualities  combine  to  make  it  the  ideal 
food  beverage. 

57  HIGHEST  AWARDS   IN  EUROPE  AND  AMERICA 

Be  sure  you  get  the  Genuine  w  u  b  tne  Trade- Mark  on  the  package,    Booklet 

of  Choice  &  E  ree. 

WALTER    BAKER    &    CO.   LTD. 

Established  1780  DORCHESTER,  MASS. 


HORSFORD'S 

Acid  Phosphate 

The  nurse  is  justified  in  recom- 
mending the  use  of  Horsford's 
Acid  Phosphate  as  a  sickroom  bev- 
erage. As  a  basis  for  albuminous 
drinks  and  fruit  punches,  or  simply 
added  to  the  patient's  drinking 
water,  it  affords  a  welcome  change 
to  the  invalid  on  a  limited  or  pre- 
scribed diet. 

The  Nurse  Herself 


will  find  in  Horsford's  Acid  Phosphate  a 
relief  from  many  of  the  conditions  brought 
on  by  overwork  and  the  so-called  brain- 
fag." Non-alcoholic,  and  containing  no 
narcotics,  it  nevertheless  has  a  refreshing 
and  stimulating  effect  in  cases  of  reduced 
nerve  energy. 

RUMFORD    CHEMICAL    WORKS 
Providence,  R.  I. 

T46     10-16 


504 


FELLOWS'  SYRUP 

or  the 

HYPOPHOSPHITES 

promotes 

Appetite      Energy      Vitality 


Not  an  untried  experiment 
but  a  Tonic  remedy  whose 
efficacy  has  been  fully  de- 
monstrated during  half  a 
century  of  practical  application 


HAVE  YOU  TRIED  IT? 


Samples  ii»J  Li/erator*  itnt  vfon  r(,juat 

OWS  MEDICAL  MANFG.  CO.. 


ORANGES— LEMONS 

An  Extract  from  "Food  and  the  Principles  of  Dietetics" 

by  Robert  Hutchison,  M.  D.,  Edin.,  F.  R.  C.  P. 

"The  mineral  constituents  of  fruits  are  of  considerable  importance. 
They  consist  mainly  of  potash  united  with  varous  vegetable  acids  (citric 
acid  in  the  case  of  oranges  and  lemons).  These  have  an  agreeable  acid 
flavor,  but  when  burnt  up  inside  of  the  body  are  converted  into  the 
corresponding  carbonate,  and  so  help  to  render  the  blood  more  alkaline 
and  the  urine  less  acid.  Thus,  1  fluid  ounce  of  lemon  juice  contains  45 
grains  of  citric  acid  and  saturates  (nutralizes)  45/4  grains  of  bicarbonate 
of  soda.  .  .  . 

The  odor  and  flavor  of  fruits  are  due  to  the  presence  of  very  small 
quantities  of  ethereal  bodies  which  sometimes  elude  chemical  investiga- 
tion .  .  .  Although  of  no  nutritive  value,  the  flavoring  substances  con- 
tained in  fruits  are  by  no  means  to  be  despised  as  stimulants  to  the 
appetite  and  aids  to  digestion." 


UNIFORMLY     GOOD     ORANGES 

The  word  Sunkist  makes  the  uniformly  good  oranges  which  are  shipped  from  Cali- 
fornia's finest  groves  by  the  California  fruit  Growers  Exchange,  a  co-operative,  strictly 
non-profit  organization  of  8,000  growers. 

The  purposes  of  this  Exchange  are  to  produce  oranges  of  first-class  eating  quality,  to 
pack  the  maximum  number  in  the  regulation  size  box,  and  to  get  them  to  market  quickly 
and  economically  so  they  will  remain  fresh  and  gecd  and  may  be  sold  at  reasonable 
retail  prices. 

Sunkist  are  juicy,  sweet,  tender,  practically  seedless— and  are  reliable  oranges. 

We  suggest  that  dietitians  try  ordering  Sunkist  since  they  cost  no  more  than  common 
kinds  and  are  in  fact  more  economical. 


Oranges  for  Health" 


California  Fruit  Growers  Exchange 

A  Co-operative,  Non-profit  Organization  of  8,000  Growers 

.  Dept.000     Los  Angeles,  Cal. 


To  Dietitians 


An  illustrated  booklet  containing 
200  tested  orange  and  lemon  reci- 
pes by  the  authors  of  the  famous 
Boston  Cook  Book  will  be  sent  to  you 
without  charge  on  request. 


506 


iJIIIIIIIIIIMIIIIMIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIMIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIinillllllllllll^ 

That  Sour  Stomach  may  be  the  start- 
ing-point of  a  long  train  of  diseases;  i 

even    the    best   cook    can    start  it.  I 

=  = 

Among  the  way-stations  are  Gastric  1 
Indigestion,  Constipation,  Auto-in- 
toxication, Neuritis,  Eczema,  and  1 
Dental  Decay.  The  thing  to  do  is  1 
to  "flag  the  train" — or  better  still,  1 
not  allow  it  to  start.     How  ? 

Sweeten  it!     Sharp  &  Dohme's  Milk  | 
of  Magnesia  is  pleasant  to  take,  has 

the    most    and    best    magnesia,    is  i 

actively  anti-acid,  painlessly  laxative,  1 

and  as  safe  for  children  as  for  adults  1 

in  proper  doses.     Half  teaspoonful  1 

to  one  or  more  tablespoonfuls  after  1 

meals  and  at  bedtime;  clear  or    in  1 
water  or  milk.     Your  druggist  can 
supply.     Insist  upon  getting 

Sharp  &  Dohme's  Milk  of  Magnesia. 

sfimiiiiiiiimiiimiiiimiii iiiiiiiiiiiiuiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiin:i i iiiiiiiiiiiiiini mi? 


Hoyt's  Gum  Gluten  Foods 

For  the  Nurses — Fortify  your  patients  before  an  oper- 
ation or  any  ordeal  by  giving  them  Gum  Gluten. 
Build  them  up  by  its  use.  In  France  it  is  used  ex- 
tensively for  this  purpose. 

Our  Gluten  Babies — Many  mothers  are  mixing  Gum 
Gluten  gruel  with  milk.  It  builds  and  rounds  out 
muscles  and  makes  baby  strong.  Cross  babies  are 
often  such  because  of  fermentation  of  the  starchy 
foods  and  of  the  milk  in  the  stomach.  Gluten  keeps 
the  coagulated  milk  from  forming  into  a  ball.  It 
digests  easily  and  saves  a  lot  of  pain  and  discomfort. 
Mothers  are  so  pleased  that  they  often  send  us 
photographs  of  their  babies. 

It  makes  the  work  of  the  nurse  easier  when 
baby  feels  well. 

How  to  Obtain  Hoyt's  Gum  Gluten — The  lead- 
ing grocer  in  every  city  sells  our  products. 

For  the  Baby — Ask  for  a  pound  package  of  Hoyt's 
Gum  Gluten  Flour. 

If  the  grocer  does  not  have  it  in  stock,  write  us 
enclosing  25c  and  we  will  mail  you  a  pound  pack- 
age together  with  our  literature  and  the  name  of  the 
nearest  agent  where  you  can  procure  all  of  our 
gluten  foods. 

Lists  of  Our  Products 

Hoyt's  Gum  Gluten  Flour 

"        Self  Raising  Flour 
"        Breakfast  Food 
"        Granules 

Dainty  Fluffs 
"         Biscuit  Crisps 
"        Noodles 
Sweetina 

The  Pure  Gluten  Food  Company 

90  West  Broadway  New  York  City 


508 


For  the  Sick,  Convalescent  or  Well  there  is 
no  finer  energy  producing  food  than 

Minute  Tapioca 

Its  food  value  is  particularly  important  because 
of  its  ready  digestibility  and  its  easy  conversion 
into  bodily  energy.  Minute  Tapioca  is  as  pure 
as  tapioca  can  possibly  be  made  and  is  so  pre- 
pared that  it  softens  immediately,  thus  making 
it  very  desirable  when  a  particularly  nourishing 
and  healthful  dessert  is  required  quickly. 

Try  the  Minute  Tapioca  recipes  in  this  book. 
A  section  of  our  Minute  Cook  Book  is  de- 
voted to  recipes  of  some  especially  dainty, 
nourishing  desserts  for  the  sick 
room. 

It  is  yours  for  the  asking. 
Also  a  Free  sample  for  your 
grocer's  name. 


No  Soaking 
Always  Ready 

\oCooh 


At  All  Good  Grocers 
Minute  Tapioca  Co. 

223  W.Main  St. 
Orange,  ...  Mass. 


LIQUID  PEPTONOIDS 

Emergency  nutrient  and  dietetic  auxiliary 
—  Offering  immediately  available  car- 
bohydrates— nitrogen — energy. 

AMNIOIDS 

For  rectal  feeding  —  Offers  the  only 
form  of  nitrogen  capable  of  absorption 
from  the  colon-viz.  amino-acid  nitrogen. 

CULTOL 

(Bacillus  bulgaricus  in  Petrolatum) 
Empties  the  bowels  and  destroys  putre- 
factive bacteria — without  drugs. 

LACTOPEPTINE 

Aids  and  supports  digestive  processes 
throughout  the  alimentary  tract. 

HEMABOLOIDS 

Reconstructive  hematinic — bland — pal- 
atable— nonstyptic. 

BOROLYPTOL 

A  non-toxic — pleasant  germicidal  mouth 
wash — based  on  formaldehyde. 


The  Arlington  Chemical  Company 

The   New  York  Pharmacal  Association 

The   Palisade   Manufacturing  Company 

Yonkers,  N.  Y. 


16 


Fever   Feeds  on   Protein: 


.'dELL-O. 


^ 


( 


W 


zm 

m 


Hence  the  pa- 
tients' tissues 
waste  rapid- 
ly ;  they  are 
burned  up.  ■ 

Gelatine  is 
much      more 
easily  burned 
than    human 
is 
protein 
sparer."  Pure 
gelatine,  cane 
sugar        and 
natural   fruit 
flavor,      com- 
bined, make 

JELL-O 


tissue — it 


i 


\ 


Jell-O  is  easily  pre- 
pared, in  a  variety  of 
forms,  in  seven  different 
flavors.  It  is  acceptable 
to  the  patient,  popular 
with  the  nurse  and  approved  by  the  most  careful  and  con- 
servative physicians. 

Jell-O  simplifies  and  facilitates  the  feeding  of  invalid  or 
convalescent  patients. 

The  seven  flavors  of  Jell-O  are  Strawberry,  Raspberry, 
Lemon,  Orange,  Cherry,  Teach.  Chocolate.  All  are  pure 
fruit  flavors,  of  course.     Each   10  cents,  at  any  grocer's. 

The  waxed-paper  bag  inside  the  Jell-O  carton  affords 
absolute  protection  to  the  contents  against  moisture  and 
atmospheric  condition-. 

THE  GENESEE  PURE  FOOD  COMPANY.   Le  Roy.  N.  Y..  and  Bridgebur*.  Ont. 


511 


JUNKET 

The  Perfect  Milk  Food 

JUNKET  TABLETS  contain  absolutely  nothing  but  the 
pure  Rennet  Ferment  and  a  little  pure  table  salt.  No  chemi- 
cals whatever  enter  into  their  manufacture. 

Ideal  for  the  preparation  of  WHEY,  MODIFIED  or  HUMANIZED 
MILK,  JUNKET  PUDDINGS  and  ICE  CREAM  in  endless  variety. 
10  Tablets  for  10  quarts,  10c.      100  Tablets  in  a  package,  75c. 


Junket  Brand  Buttermilk  Tablets 

Compressed   Lactic    Ferment    Culture  prepared  at   the   Bacteriological  de- 
partment of  Chr.  Hansen's  Laboratory,  Copenhagen,  Denmark. 
Converts  sugar  of  milk  into  lactic  acid,  rendering  the  milk  palatable  and 
healthful,  and  a  preventive  and  curative  for  many  intestinal  disorders. 
15  Tablets  in  a  vial,  25c.  75  Tablets  in  a  package,  $1.00 

At  all  druggists,  or  by  mail  direct  from  the  manufacturers 

CHR.    HANSEN'S     LABORATORY 
Box   1709  LITTLE  FALLS,  N.  Y. 


512 


v  \4 


A  Food  — A  Confection  — 
A  Dainty 

Help  yourself  to  the  choicest,  plumpest,  mellow- 
est and  most  luscious  fruit  in  the  world — Drome- 
dary Dates.  Pass  them  around  the  family  table 
— or  to  company — for  everyone  loves  them. 

Dromedary  Dates  come  carefully  layered  in 
sealed  packages.  -  . 

\<  •  one  is  too  young  and  no  one  too  old  to  enjoy 
the  sugar-laden  fruit  from  the  Garden  of  Eden. 

Dromedary  Dates  belong  in  your  daily  menu. 
They  are  easily  digested.  Children  prefer  them 
to  candy  and  they  are  much  better  for  them. 
Learn  to  know  the  yellow  and  brown  dust-proof 
package.  Learn  how  good  Dromedary  Dates  are 
as  a  food — as  a  confection — as  a  dainty. 

THF  HILLS  BROTHERS  COMPANY 
Dept.  <*>  375  Washington  Street.  New  York 

Dromedary 
Bates 


513 


GOOD  THINGS  TO  EAT 

THAT   ARE 

HOME  MADE 

PRESERVES,  MARMALADES,  PICKLES, 
RELISHES,  JELLIES,  MINCE  MEAT, 
PLUM  PUDDING. 


This  Kitchen  is  under  the  personal  supervis- 
ion of  Miss  Chivvis,  who  assures  the  public  that 
only  the  purest  and  best  goods  are  used  in  her 
establishment. 


SPECIALTIES 

GINGER  PEARS,       GRAPE  CONSERVE, 
SPANISH  PICKLE,    CENTURY  RELISH. 


Special  prices  to  Hospitals,  Hotels,  Clubs,  etc. 

Price  list  furnished  on  application. 

C  E.  CHIVVIS,     -     -    MOUNT  VERNON,  NEW  YORK 


514 


KNOX 

SPARKLING  GELATINE 

(Granulated) 

The  very  word  diet — "prescribed  eating" — means  care  in  the 
selection  as  well  as  the  eating  of  foods. 

KNOX  Gelatine  should,  for  this  reason  alone,  be  prescribed  in 
dietetics,  for  it  is  just  pure  gelatine.  We  put  no  flavoring,  color  or 
sugar  in  KNOX  Gelatine  to  upset  your  diet  charts.  (See  Dr.  Wiley's 
1001  tests,  stating  that  "ready-to-serve"  jelly  powders  are  85%  to 
95 'r    sugar). 

KNOX  Gelatine  is  an  albumin  and  protein  sparer.  It  is  an  easily 
assimulated  vehicle  for  other  food  substances,  such  as  fruit  and  fruit 
juices,  broths,  etc.  KNOX  Gelatine  dishes  appeal  to  the  eye — they 
tempt  the  appetite. 

KNOX  Gelatine  is  endorsed  by  Dr.  Wiley,  Prof.  Allyn  and  all 
other  food  authorities.  Each  package  makes  four  pints  of  jelly. 
Eich  package  contains  two  envelopes  measured  for  your  convenience. 
I  personally  know  of  thousands  of  dietitians  and  domestic  science 
teachers  using  KNOX  Gelatine.  I  know  you  will  always  use  it, 
too,  after  one  trial. 

President 

Recipe  Book  "Dainty  Desserts  for  Dainty 
People"    and     Four    Pint    Package    FREE 

to  dietitians  and  nurses  who  mention  this  book.  Our 
book  contains  1 64  recipes  including  a  number  of  in- 
dividual dishes  Jor  the  sick  or  convalescent. 

CHARLES   B.   KNOX  GELATINE  CO.,  Inc. 

901    KNOX   AVENUE  JOHNSTOWN.   N.  Y. 


The  contents  of  these  pack- 
ages are  identical  except 
the  "Acidulated"  (Blue) 
Package  contains  an  en- 
velope of  lemon  flavoring, 
saving  the  cuA  of  lemons 
and  thz  time  of  squeezing 
them. 


Yellow  Package 


Blue  Package 


FEEDING  THE  FAMILY 

By  Mrs.  Mary  Swartz  Rose 

Assistant    Professor   of  Household  Arts  in  Teachers 
College,  Columbia  University. 

499  PAGES  Illustrated  12  mo  $2.10 


THE  emphasis  now  being  placed  on  proper  feeding 
as  an  important  part  of  the  successful  treatment  of 
disease  makes  it  essential  that  every  nurse  should 
have  a  knowledge  of  foods  and  food  values. 

No  more  simple,  practical  or  readable  treatment  of  the 
subject  of  dietetics  has  appeared,  than  the  present  work 
by  Dr.  Rose.  She  deals  first  with  the  uses  which  food 
serves  in  the  body  and  the  care  of  the  digestive  mech- 
anism; next  with  the  special  dietetic  needs  of  the  different 
members  of  a  typical  family  group — men  and  women, 
children  of  different  ages,  and  the  elderly;  then  with  the 
food  problems  of  the  family  as  a  whole;  and  lastly  with 
sick-room  dietetics. 

She  includes  in  the  varies  chapters  a  considerable  num- 
ber of  illustrative  food  plans  and  dietaries  of  an  unusual 
sort,  which  will  be  especially  useful  to  the  nurse  in  plan- 
ning proper  meals  in  the  absence  of  specific  directions 
from  the  physician,  and  she  gives  in  the  appendix  tables 
of  food  values  which  will  simplify  the  calculation  of  the 
nutritive  value  of  various  familiar  kinds  of  food;  a!so  many 
recipes  with  their  food  values,  and  tables  of  body  weight 
in  relation  to  height. 

For  Sale  By 

A.  F.  PATTEE 

Medical  Publisher  and  Bookseller 
MOUNT  VERNON,  N.  Y. 


516 


* 


itim»iiiiH""'ii'mmiiiliiintminmmi  irrrrr 


Ft 


ratxco  - 


American 
Broths 


(Sterilized) 


Tirst  "aides' 
totkepRysiaan 


for  Invalids  and  (fiildren 

These  broths  are  strong  in  the  essential  meat 
juices,  absolutely  pure,  free  from  grease,  only 
lightly  seasoned,  and  entirely  safe  (sterilized). 
They  are  endorsed  and  used  by  physicians. 
Nurses  appreciate  their  convenience.  Moth- 
ers find  them  splendidly  beneficial  to  babies 
and  children  (well  or  sick). 


Beef 


Chicken 


Mutton 


MUTTON 
BROTH 

FOR  INVALiO- 
ANO  CHILD" 


May  be  taken  hot  or  cold 
Require  no  preparation 
Sold   by  leading   grocers 

15    cents    the    can 


Makers  of  Franco- American  Soups 


517 


National  Head- 
quarters  f  o  r 

DIETITIANS 


HOSPITALS  desiring  dietitians 
can  secure  the  services  of  grad- 
uates from  leading  Schools  of 
Household  Arts  by  applying  to 
us.  Prompt  attention  given  to 
request  and  no  charge  is  made 
for   this   service. 

DIETITIANS  desiring  hospital 
positions  are  invited  to  register 
with  us.  No  chargefor  registration 

A.  F.  PATTEE 

134  South  First  Avenue, 
Mt.  Vernon,  New  York 


518 


PURITY  ABSOLUTE         FLAVOR  UNIQUE 

NOTHING   FINER   PRODUCIBLE 

§ 

"It    is    our  opinion    the  analytical    tests  of   the  UNITED    STATES 

BUREAU    OF    CHEMISTRY   prove   NICELLE   OLIVE    OIL 

superior  to  all  known  brands  tested."— STILLWELL  &  GLADDING, 
Official  Chemists  to  New  York  Produce  Exchange. 


Its  Use  Recommended  by 

Mis.  ALIDA  FRANCES  PATTEE         Miss  CORNELIA  C.  BEDFORD 
Mm  FANNIE  MERRIT  FARMER         Miss  JANET  MACKENZIE  HILL 
Mrs.  HELEN  ARMSTRONG  Miss  ANNA  BARROWS 

AND    0TH1 


NICELLE  OLIVE  OIL  CO. 

26  Cortlandt  Street,  New  York  City 

FOREIGN  OFFICES: 
PARIS,  10  Avenue  de  l'Opera  NICE,  Rue  Georges-Ville 


519 


HOSPITALS 


HOSPITALS  desiring 
Dietitians  can  secure  the 
services  of  graduates  from 
leading  Schools  of  House- 
hold Arts  by  applying  to 
A.  F.  Pattee,  134  South 
First  Avenue  Mt.  Vernon, 
New  York. 

Prompt  attention  given  to 
request  and  no  charge  is 
made  for  this  service. 


,20 


THERAPEUTIC  APPLICATION  OF  GUM  GLUTEN 

Dyspepsia,  Gastritis,  etc. — Being  non-fermentative  and 
quickly  reduced  by  the  digestive  fluids,  Gum  Gluten  is  a  food  in 
perfect  harmony  with  the  action  of  the  stomach  and  can  be  eaten 
ID  the  form  of  gruel. 

Convalescence.  — As  Gum  Gluten  is  remarkably  rich  in 
nucleo-albumen  and  all  other  cell-building  material,  it  is  capable 
ol  greatly  quickening  and  intensifying  the  integrating  processes 
of  cell  life  and  giving  impulsive  energy  ami  force  in  the  revival 
of  the  system  to  it*  normal  metabolism. 

Rheumatism,  Gout  and  Uric  Acid  Diathesis.  — Being 
non-acid  making  and  non-fermenting,  and  digested  by  the  action 
of  the  stomach.  Gum  Gluten  has  a  distinct  specific  value  in  all 
rheumatic  conditions. 

Obesity. — As  Gum  Gluten  is  the  muscle-building  element 
of  wheat,  it  is  the  rational  unfailing  cure  of  this  uncomfortable 
condition. 

Diabetes  Mellitus.  — Gum  Gluten  can  be  made  into  bread 
and  a  great  variety  of  dishes,  and  is  the  most  satisfactory  substi- 
tute tor  the  wheat  flour  bread  or  bread  in  common  use,  and  the 
effects  are  particularly  noticeable  in  the  reduction  of  sugar  in  the 
daily  tests. 

Other  Conditions. — All  anaemic  and  chlorotic  conditions 
due  to  an  insufficient  supply  of  red  blood  corpuscles  or  lack  of 
haemoglobin,  or  both,  and  more  remotelv  to  a  disordered  nutri- 
tion, are  furnished  the  one  thing  needed  by  Gum  Gluten. 

For  Nursing  Mothers.— It  enriches  the  lacteal  secretions. 

For  Infants'  Food. — To  increase  the  amount  of  protein  Gum 
Gluten  Flour  should  be  added  to  cow's  milk  to  keep  it  from 
coagulating  and  fermenting. 

For  the  expectant  mother  it  supplies  the  prenatal  aliment  par 
excellence,  since  it  is  rich  in  all  those  elements  which  serve  to 
maintain  the  nutritive  system  at  its  best. 

For  the  Aged,  the  Enfeebled,  the  Invalid,  and  all  whose 
vital  powers  are  waning,  Gum  Gluten  will  be  found  a  most 
wholesome,  sustaining  and  helpful  food.  In  its  blood-making 
property  it  restores  to  the  system  the  loss  which  has  resulted  in 
enervation  and  decline. 

Write  us  for  price-list  and  our  new  starch  restricted  diet-list 
to  give  out  to  your  patients. 

PURE  GLUTEN  FOOD  COMPANY 

90   W.   BROADWAY  NEW  YORK 


52  L 


DIETITIANS 


DIETITIANS  desiring 
Hospital  positions  are  in- 
vited to  register  with  A. 
F.  Pattee,  134  South  First 
Avenue,  Mount  Vernon, 
New  York. 

No  charge  for  registration 
is  made  and  only  nominal 
charge  if  position  is  secured. 


522 


B//ePocJ( 


Unsurpassed 


Mi 


inera 


lU^ter 


5-3 


A  Laboratory  Hand  Book 
For  Dietetics 

By  Mrs.  Mary  Swartz  Rose 

Assistant  Professer  of  Household   Arts   in  Teachers 
College,  Columbia  University. 


127  PAGES 


$1.10 


AN  accurate  reference  book  giving  full  data 
for   food   calculations    will    very    soon    be 
an  essential  part  of  a  nurse's  equipment. 

It  is  the  purpose  of  Dr.  Rose's  Laboratory  Manual  to 
explain  the  problems  involved  in  the  calculation  of  food 
values  and  food  requirements,  and  in  the  construction  of 
dietaries,  and  to  furnish  reference  tables  which  will  min- 
imize the  labor  involved  in  such  work  without  limiting- 
dietary  study  to  a  few  food  materials.  These  reference 
tables  give  the  food  values  not  only  for  the  standard 
1  00-calorie  portion,  and  the  gram,  but  also  for  the  ounce 
and  the  pound.  They  also  contain  blank  spaces  for  in- 
dividual record  of  cost,  measure,  etc.,  which,  of  course, 
vary  with  the  locality,  seasons  and  changing  conditions 
in  general.  With  their  help  it  is  a  simple  matter  for  the 
nurse  to  calculate  food  values  and  requirements  for  any 
person  of  almost  any  age.  and  to  prepare  a  suitable  diet- 
ary under  the  doctor's  directions. 

This  book  is  a  very  valuable  supplement  to  the  author'* 
Feeding  the  Family. 

For  Sale  By 

A.  F.  PATTEE 

Medical  Publisher  and  Bookseller 
MOUNT  VERNON,  N,  Y. 


524 


BREAD 

The  Food  With  The  Energy  Value 


"There  is  more  energy  in  a  pound  of  bread 
than  in  a  pound  of  meat."     (Dr.  Harvey  W.  Wiley). 

You  can't. be  interested  in  dietetics  without  being 
interested  in  Bread — Wheat  Bread,  Graham  Bread, 
Rusks,  Toast,  etc.  The  book  pictured  above  was  com- 
piled by  teachers  of  domestic  science. 

Write  for  a  free  copy  t. 

The  Fleischmann  Co. 


701  Washington  St., 


New  York,  N.  Y. 


NURSES'  JOURNAL 

Send  your  subscription  to 

A.  F.  Pattee 

MOUNT  VERNON 
NEW  YORK 

The  American  Journal  Of  Nursing  (issued 

monthly)  per  year 2.00 

The  Trained  Nurse  (issued  monthly)  per  year  2.00 

The  Canadian  Nurse   (issued  monthly)  per 

year 1.00 

The  Pacific  Coast   Journal   of    Nursing 

(issued    monthly)    per  year 1*50 

The  Modern  Hospital  (issued  monthly)  per 

year 3.00 

American    National    Red    Cross    (issued 

monthly)  per  year  . 2.00 

The  American  Cookery  Magazine  (issued 

monthly)  per  year 1.50 

526 
V 


Your  First  Aid,Your  Chief  Help 

"Diet    Kitchen"    on    the    Case 


— a 


21  2°  — 

Temperature    in 
i  \   <  >  R  Y  " 

•     Double  Boiler 


...    >hi 


W 


192 

Temperature   in 
the   Ordinary 

"Double    Boiler" 


t  v_y 


In  Hospitals  foods  are  steam- 
cooked.  There  you  have  "Diet 
Kitchens"  to  simplify  the  exact- 
ing work  of  providing  the  proper 
foods  properly  prepared. 

"On  the  case"  you  know  how 
very  different  it  is!  Here,  in  the 
average  home  you  have  no  "Diet 
Kitchen"  conveniences  —  to  say 
nothing  of  even  such  first  necessities, 
to  the  hospital,  as  '  'steam  cooking1 ' . 

Thus  it  is  that  here,  on  the  case,  yams  first 
aid.  your  chief  help  is  the  "sAVORY"  steam- 
roeiinc  Double  Boiler.  You  should  know  this 
—  how  it  applies  scientific  principle!  to  Double 
Boiler  cooking. 

The  thermometers  tell  the  story. 

Wlien  you  u-e  a  "SAVORY"  Double 
Boiler,  you  cook  in  live  steam  at  a  constant, 
e\en  temperature  of  212° — while  the  cooking 
temperature  in  an  ordinary  double  boiler  (heat 
transmitted  through  metal  walls  and  steam  dis- 
ciarged  in  the  room)  is  only  192°.  ten  per 
cent  less.. 

Because   of   its   steam-cooking   met 
"SAVORY"   ^:ues  food  values.  "  appetizing  " 
it    stimulate   and    aid    digestion,  the 
valuable  mineral  salts  your  patient-  D< 
elements  '"boiling"  r*.  the  tex- 

ture of  fa  lelightful.  too.     Saves 

iour  time.  work,  and  worry.     And  thN  compact, 
health-helping,  simple— though  u.  iijut — uten- 

Just  introduce  it  into  the  home, 

and    diet    is   not  only  a  relatively 


on 

easy  matter  while  you  are  on  the 
case  but  you  will  have  conferred  a 
lasting  benefit  on  the  household  for 
the  "SAVORY"  steam -cooking; 
Double  Boiler  makes  for  every- 
day-of-the-year  help  and  health. 
Your  services,  in  introducing, 
this  utensil  alone,  will  long  be  re- 
membered to  your  credit. 

Light,  easy  to  use.  always  ready,  the 
"SA\  ORY"  If  one  of  the  first  items  to  pre- 
scribe in  any  case;  a  help  to  physician-,  nurses, 
dieticians,  and  all  others  interested  in  the  cor- 
rect, yet  easy,  preparation  of  foods  for  the  sub- 
normal as  well  as  normal  appetite. 

Sometimes  the  nurse  takes  her  own 
"SAVORY"  Double  Boiler  with  her  to  the 
rase.  It  is  so  widely  helpful !  For  it  may  also 
be  used  for  sterilizing — in  live  steam — for  keep- 
ing small  compresses  hot.  etc.,  etc 

FREE  FOLDER,  explaining 
this  utensil,  will  be  gladly  sent  you 
on  request.  Specify  r'SAVORY," 
ask  for  it  at  your  local  dealer  (if 
he  is  unable  to  furnish,  write  U3 
and  we  will-  see  that  you  are 
promptly  supplied. )  Buy  today  your 

"SAVORY" 

Double  Boiler 


SAVE  with 


a  SAVORY"! 


See,   in   "The  Answer"   Folder,   how  steam 
pan  and  the  condensation  re- 
turns   t  pan  —  an    exclusive 
J     ■  stare. 

//  rite  us  forytur  copy  today. 


THE,    REPUBLIC    METALWARE    CO, 


Maker  i  of  S heel  Metal  I   U 

97  REPUBLIC  STREET 


mi'.'j  fur  the  Home  Since  1836 

BUFFALO,  NEW  YORK 


527 


NURSES'  JOURNAL 

COMBINATION  OFFERS 

The   Following    Offers   Atply   to   New   Subscriptions 

Only 

The  American  Journal  of  Nursing  (2.00) 
and  one  copy  of 
Pattce's  Practical  Dietetics   (1.75)    .... 

3.50 

The  Trained  Nurse   (2.00)  and  one  copy  of 
Pattee's  Practical  Dietetics   (1.75)    .    .    .    . 

3.50 

The  Canadian  Nurse  (1.00)  and  one  copy  of 
Pattee's  Practical  Dietetics   (1.75)    .    .    .    . 

2.50 

The    Pacific    Coast   Journal    of  Nursing 

(1.50)  and  one  copy  of 

Pattee's  Practical  Dietetics   (1.75)    .    .    .    . 

3.00 

The  Modern  Hospital  (3. 00)  and  one  copy  of 
Pattee's  Practical  Dietetics    (1.75)    .    .    .    . 

4.50 

American  National  Red  Cross  (2.00)  and 

one  copy  of  Pattee's  Practical  Dietetics  (1.75)  3.50 

The  American  Cookery  Magazine  (1.50) 

and  one  copy  of 

Pattee's  Practical  Dietetics    (1.75)    .    .    .    . 

3.00 

A.   F.    PATTEE 

134  South  First  Avenue 

Mount  Vernon,  N.  Y. 

52J 


Your 

System 

Needs  Such 

a  Food  as  This 


ft  ur  sing 

Alolatts 


especially   at   this   time  of  the  year 
when  winter  renders  you  so  susceptible 
to  the  ravages  of  sickness  and  disease.     At 
this  time,  more  than  any  other,  your  body  re- 
quires a  pure,  wholesome, predigested  liquid  that  is 
easily  and  quickly  assimilated — one  that  will  build 
up  wasted  tissues  and  weakened  muscles — one  that  will 
strengthen  aiid  actually  impart  energy  and  vigor  and  life. 
That  is  why  physicians  everywhere  recommend  the  use  of 

Patost  Extract 

ifveBesYTonic 

a  perfect  food  welcomed  by    the   weakest  stomach — containing   all 

the   nutritive  and   digestive  properties  of  pure,  rich  barley  malt 

and  the  quieting  and  restorative  qualities  of  choicest   hops 

in   predigested  liquid   form.      It  is  the  ideal  spring  food 

-giving   men   and   women    just    the    right    energy    and 

strength   to   take    their   part  in    the   battle  of  life. 

I   Extract.    The    "Best"    Tonic,  is   used    all  over  the   world 
to   strengthen   the   weak   and    build    up   the  over-work. 
lieve  Insomnia   and   conquer   dyspepsia:  to   help    the    anaemic 
and   turn    nerve   exhaustion  into    active,    healthy    vim; 
encourage     listless     com 
i  ;  =  t  nursing    mothers    and    reinvigorate    old    a^c. 

Order  a  dozen  from  your  druggist— Insist  upon  it  being  Pabst 
Free    booklet,    tells 
ALL  uses  and  benefits 
o<  Pabst  Extract. 


Entour-     Writs    for    It  -  a 
aits  Listless    postal  will  do. 
Connies-        Library   Slip. 


Druggists  generally  sell 
Pabst  Extract.    It  yours 
does  not,  write  us  and 
we  will  see  that  you 
are  supplied. 
PABST 

EXTRACT  CO. 

Oept.P.O. 

Milwaukee 
Wis. 


MS 

* 


* 


Rrinrtn- 

males  Old 

Ate 


'I   am  constant    ;\y  the  northern   star, 
Of  whose  transfix'd  and  resting  quality- 
There  is  no  fellow  in  the  firman 

— Julius  Ccesar. 


53U 


Dear 
Doctor 

'(gmvaivLQ  of  Kumyss  as 
a  food,  in  atmosi^veVg 
morbid  condition  ospQCialhj 
whentno  stomach  and  nutri- 
tion are  involved ,  is  so  well 
Known  tnat  it  seems  super- 
fluous to  call  nour  attention 
to  it's  merits -Mint  there  are. 
Just  now,  so  mannimitations 
and  so  much  siinstitutin^ 
that  I  wish  to  call  uour  atten- 
tion to  tho  fact  that  all  the 
genuine  is  stoppered  with 
crown  caps  marked 

DR.    E.    F.    BRUSH 

LABORATORY,     MOUNT    VERNON.    N.    Y. 
N.   Y.  Office.   217   W.  123d  St. 


The  Simplex  Ironer 

Offers  you  the  Best,  the  Quickest, 
the  Easiest  and  at  the  same  time 
the  cheapest  method  of  ironing 
for  Household,  Hospital  or  Sani- 
tarium. Complete  laundry  plans. 

Write  for  Catalogue 

American  Ironing  Machine  Co. 

600-168  N.  Michigan  Ave.  Chicago,  111. 


siz 


^Cre&c@m+ 


VAPORIZER 

IS  SIX 

INCHES 

HIGH 


Established    1879 


LASTS  A 
LIFETIME 


Treatment  without  internal  medication  is  highly  desirable  in  Whooping 
Cough  and  Spasmodic  Croup,  particularly  in  the  very  young.  The  value 
of  \  apo-Cresolene  depends  upon  its  antisepti<  power  and  the  sedative 
influence  of  the  vapor  diffused  through  the  air.  and  thus  constantly 
breathed  by  the  patient.  Breathing  becomes  easy,  desire  to  cough  is 
allayed  and  the  patient  gains  needful  rest. 

The  diseases  in  which  Cresolene  has  been  especially  utilized 
are  Whooping  Cough,  Spasmodic  Croup^,  Bronchitis,  Asthma, 
Broncho-pneumonia,  the  bronchial  complications  of  Scarlet  Fever 
and  Measles  and  as  an  aid  in  the  treatment  of  Diphtheria. 

A  1%  solution  of  Cresolene  in  water  kills  the  germs  of  Diphtheria, 
Typhoid  Fever  and  pus  at  once.  Cresolene  is  less  toxic  than  carbolic 
acid  and  has  a  greater  germicidal  value. 

For  tale  by  Druggists.  Literature  on  request. 

THE  VAPO-CRESOLENE  CO. 
64  Cortlandt  Street,  New  York  City. 

Leeming-Miles    Building,  Montreal,  Canada. 


EXCELSIOR 

QUILTING  COMPANY 

The  Excelsior  Quilting 
Company  make  Quilted  Pads 
of  the  correct  weight  for 
washing  properly  and  of  best 
material.  Their  "trade  mark" 
is  on  every  pad  which  they 
guarantee  to  be  sanitary  and 
perfect.  Be  careful  and 
guard  your  beds  against 
"sweat  shop  goods"  and  imi- 
tations which  unscrupulous 
dealers  offer  you  because 
they  make  more  profit. 


Look  carefully  at  this 
trade  mark  so  you  will  know 
it  when  you  go  to    'shop". 


'None  genuine  without 
Trade  Mark."' 


534 


yiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiH^ 


An  Ideal  Dusting  Powder  for 
the  Nurse 

It  is  of  the  greatest  importance  that  every  nurse 
should  know  of  this  new  antiseptic  dusting 
powder.  Kora-Konia  is  a  Mennen  product 
made  especially  for  physicians,  surgeons,  and 
nurses,  and  of  the  same  high  quality  that  has 
made  other  Mennen  preparations  the  standards 
in  their  respective  fields. 

Kora-Konia  meets  every  requirement  for  which  the 
nurse  requires  a  dusting  powder. 

Kora-Konia  is  a  perfect  mechanical  lubricant  and  sur- 
passes any  other  means  for  the  relief  of  chafing. 

Kora-Konia  is  an  antiseptic  and  because  it  also  has 
astringent  and  hemostatic  properties  it  is  ideal  for  use 
in  wound  dressing. 

In  eczema,  chafing,  prickly  heat,  nettle  rash,  measles, 
chicken  pox,  and  similar  skin  affections,  Kora-Konia 
affords  greatful  relief.  As  an  umbilical  dressing  it 
assures  the  highest  degree  of  safety  against  infection. 

For  the  purpose  of  testirijr  Kora-Konia  yourself,  send    at 
once  for  a  sample  box  winch,  will  be  mailed  upon  request. 
Sold    by    leading    druiffists    at   twenty-riw 

THE  HOUSE  OF  MENNEN 
NEWARK,  N.  J. 


-Tnllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllll^ 


535 


"Not  What  We  Have  But  What  You  Want" 

Est.  1890 


HOME   BUREAU 

Foods  for  Invalids,  Diabetics,  Children 

52  West  39th  Street,  New  York  City 

Telephone  406-409  Greeley 

Nurses—For  every  kind  of  a  case  hospital  and  private. 

Delicacies— For  the  Sick,  Broths,  Purees,  Gruels,  Beverages,  Jellies, 
Eggs,  etc.,  on  hand  and  to  order,  Manuel  Freres*  Swiss  products. 

Surgical  Dressings— For  Operations,  Sterilized  Maternity  Outfits  in 
sealed  boxes,  Laparotomy  Kits,  Adenoid  and  Tonsilitis  Sets. 

Medical  Supplies— of  every  kind  for  the  sick  room  and  the  hospital. 

Invalid  Furniture— Chairs,  Back  Rests,  Bed  Trays,  Stretches,  Oper- 
ating Tables,  Sterilized  Sheets,  Towels,  Surgeons'  Gowns,  etc., 
sold  and  rented. 

Invalids  Moved— anywhere  from  city  to  country,  and  house  to  house, 
room  to  room,  and  up  and  down  stairs. 

Rest  Cure  Apartments— attractively  and  daintily  furnished  for  con- 
valesecent  and  rest  cure  patients. 

Houses  and  Rooms— fumigated  and  disinfected  by  the  most  approved 
methods  without  annoyance  to  householders  or  patients. 

Purchases— made  of  anything  for  hospitals,  physicians,  nurses  and  in- 
valids.    Photographs  submmitted,  estimates  furnished. 

Mail  Orders— for  sick  room  and  hospital  supplies  promptly  and  efficient- 
ly filled. 

Information— given  about  everything  pertaining  to  the  sick  room  and 
hospital.     Sanatoriums,  and  Houses  recommended. 

Open  Day,  Night,  Sunday  and  Holidays 


536 


THE  STORM  BINDER  AND 
ABDOMINAL  SUPPORTER 


(PATENTED) 


No 
Leather 


No  Whale 
bones 


No  Rubber 
Elastic 


WASH- 
ABLE 


UNDER 
WEAR 


Special  Kidney  Belt  Inguinal  Hernia  Modification 

Adapted  to  Use  of  Men,  Women, 
Children   and  Babies 

For  Hernia,  Relaxed  Sacroiliac  Articulations, 
Floating  Kidney,  High  and  Low  Operations, 
Ptosis,   Obesity,   Pregnancy,   Pertussis,   etc. 

Send  for  neuj  folder  and  testimonials  of  physicians .    General  mail 
orders  filled  at  Philadelphia  only — ixithin  tnxenty-four  hours. 

KATHLRINE  L.  STORM,  M.D. 

1541     DIAMOND     STREET  -  PHILADELPHIA 


State  Board 

Requirements  ™i  Examination 

Questions  in  Dietetics 

of  the 

Various    States 


A.  practical  little  work  giving  authentic 
outlines  showing  the  requirements  in  di- 
etetics or  the  various  State  Boards  or 
Examiners  or  Nurses;  and  the  examina- 
tion questions  in  dietetics  actually  used 
by  the  various  states.  The  examination 
questions  for  several  years  past  are  given. 
This  will  materially  aid  the  Superin- 
tendent or  Dietitian  in  arranging  the 
course  or  study  ror  the  nurse  so  as  to 
prepare  her  adequately  ror  her  state 
examination. 


Price  $.50,  Postpaid 


A.    F.    PATTEE,    Publisher 
134   South   First  Avenue,   Mount   Vernon,   N.   Y. 


538 


Sure     Relief,    Without 
Digestive  Disturbance 

WHERE  dietetic  measures  prove  un- 
availing, the  use  of  Nujol  is  by  far 
the  safest  and  most  effective  means  of  re- 
lieving constipation. 

As  Nujol  is  not  absorbed  by  the  system, 
acting  merely  as  a  mechanical  lubricant 
and  faeces-softener,  it  is  especially  valuable 
for  treating  constipation  in  the  nursing 
mother,  and  in  all  post-operative  and  con- 
valescent cases. 

Nujol  is  a  crystal-clear  internal  lubricant. 
Its  purity  is  guaranteed  by  the  vvorld'.s 
largest  manufacturers  of  petroleum  products. 


Nujol 

*«<?*U>*"pat.  \Jorry 

FOR     CONSTIPATION 


STANDARD  OIL  CO. 

(New  Jersey) 
Bayonne  New  Jersey 


539 


The  American  Year- Book 

'  OF 

Anesthesia  and  Analgesia 

is  the  last  word  and  the  most  serviceable  and  in- 
structive book  ever  presented  upon  these  important  I 

'  if 

subjects,"  so  expressed  by  competent  reviewers 
and  purchasers. 

For  the  Surgeon,  Specialist,  Dentist,  Anesthetist, 
Research  Worker,  Hospital  Superintendent  and  Gen- 
eral Practitioner  who  wish  to  keep  abreast  of  progress.    *' 

CONTRIBUTORS 

Crile,  Lillie,  Allen,  Gwathmey,  Hertzler,  Reith- 
muller,  Thoma,  De  Ford,  Barber,  Rice,  Hender- 
son, McKesson,  Casto,  Gatch,  Miller,  Jarvis,  , 
Graham,  Levy,  Hogan,  Warner,  Polak,  Ferguson, 
Matthews,  Hirschman,  Souther,  Guedel,  Porter, 
Mann,    Harris,    Burdick,    McMechan    and    Smith.          -  .' 

You  will  find  this  Year-Book'  as  instructive  and  stimulating    t 
as  a  post-graduate  course  in  anesthesia  and  analgesia  at   the 
Clinics    and    Laboratories    of    its    eminent   and   authoritative     j 
contributors.      It  is  not  a  luxury  but  an  investment  that  will 
repay  you  a  hundredfold. 

The  American  Year- Book  of  Anesthesia  and  Analgesia  is  a 
beautiful  Quarto  of  420  pages,  235  illustrations  printed  upon 
India  Tint  paper,  Bound  in  art  Buckram. 

Price  Four  Dollars  Post  Paid 


Surgery  Publishing  Co. 

92  William  Street  New  York 


540 


+  D1X-MAKE 

UNIFORMS 


npHE  very   newest 
*    models  are  illus- 
trated for  you  in  this 
attractive  booklet. 


Address  Dep't  '7' 
for  your  copy. 


Henry  A.  Dix  4  Sons  Co. 

Dix  Building  New  York  City 


541 


u  i  n  1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 iiiiini i iiiiiiiimiimiiii 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 iiiiiimmiiiiiiiimimmii(£ 


MISS  BAYLIES' 

Fifth   Avenue   Directory 
For  Nurses 


AGENCY 


8   East    37th  Street 

New  York  City 


Murray  Hill  2262 


Open  Day  and  Night 

iimmiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiimmmiiiimmiiim 


Graduates  and 
Ungraduates 

(Male  and  Female) 

Hourly  Nurses 

Irrigations 

Masseurs 

Masseuses 

Attendants 

Physicians* 
Office  Nurses  and 
Nurses  for  District  and 
Social  Service  Work 

For  Institutions: 
Superintendents 


Ass't  Superintendents 
Supervisors 

Operating  Room  and 
General  Ward  Nurses 

Anthestist 

Instructors  in  Massage 
and  Hydrotherapy 

Infants  and  Children's 
Nurses.  Trained  and 
Experienced 

(permanent  and 

temporary) 
Governesses  and 
Nursery  Governesses, 
Resident  or  Visiting. 


riiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii.- 

542 


RUBBER  GOODS 

for  Hospital  and  Home 


DAVOL  RUBBER 
GOODS 

are  the  product  of 
42  years  successful 
manufacturing. 

For  quality,  long  service 
and  permanent  satisfac- 
tion, insist  on  rubber  goods 
bearing  the  trade  mark 


AT  ALL  DRUG  STORES 
and  HOSPITAL  SUPPLY 
HOUSES. 


Cautery  Sets 

Dental  Dam 

Dilators 

Sanitary  Covers 

Sheeting,    Stomach  Evacutor 

Stomach  Tubes,  Stoppers 

Breast  Pipes,  Breast  Pumps 

Breast  Shields, 

Face  Bottles,  Finger  Cots 

Fountain  Syringe  Bags 

Vaporizers,  Water  Bags 

Water  Beds,  Water  Bottles 

Water  Caps,  Woman's  Delight 

Tourniquets,  Tubing 

Umbilical  Belts 

Operating  Cushions 

Invalid  Rings 

Rest  Easy  Bed  Cushions 


DAVOL  RUBBER  COMPANY 

MANUFACTURERS 

Providence,  R.  I.,  U.  S.  A. 


543 


Gingham  for  Nurses'  Uniform 


A.    F.    PATTEE 

134  South  First  Avenue  Mount  Vernon,  N.  1 

544 


T 


iilllllllllllllllllllllllll IIIIMIIIIIIIIIHIIII Illlllllll Illlllllllllll I UIIIIMIIL- 


Coward 

1  Shoe 


Nurses  Find  Comfort 
in  These  Shoes 

The  Coward  Special  Shoe  for 
1     Nurses   is    giving   comfort    and 
|     satisfaction  to  thousands  of  Nurses.     It 
1     fits  snugly,  supports  the  arch,  allows  free- 
1     dom  to  the  foot  muscles  and  relieves  the 
1     strain  of  standing  and  walking. 

|  The  broad  rubber  heel  gives  a  springy,  silent 
|  tread.  Try  them  and  you  will  never  wear 
|      any  other  shoe. 

Sold  Nowhere  Else 


JAMES  S.  COWARD 

262-274  Greenwich  St.      -      New  York  City      § 

~  SEAR     WARREN     STREET)  5 


Mail  Orders  Filled 


Send  for  Catalogue 


.iiiiiiiiii iiiiiiiiiiiiii iniiiHi iiiiiiiiii iiiiiiiimmiiiiiiimiiiiiiiiJH 

545 


^7^?/^  Cedar Ibresi 


Jiiiill 

l(!!|Jf    /      ^|l 


EVERY  person  should  know  why  White's 
Cedar   Chests  are  best.     They're  made 
by  exclusive  methods  entirely    from    the 
famous  pungent  Tennessee  Red  Cedar.     Their 
aroma  is  pleasant  to  the  human  being,  but  un- 
bearable to  vermin.    The  odor  comes  from  the 
knots   (90%  oil);  the  more  knotty  the  cedar, 
the  better.     Every  board    entering    a    White 
chest  is  tested  for  its  fitness  and  aromatic  quality.     Skilled  woik- 
men  employ  finest  fittings — construction  guaranteed  perfect.    Over 
20    beautiful    styles — wardrobes,    under-the-bed    styles,   window 
seats,  chests.     Our  catalog,  a  revelation  in  chest  making  art. 


VERMIN  PROOF 

1NDES  TR  UC  TIBLE 

DU^T  PROOF 

ROOMY 

SANITARY 

ATTRACTIVE 

ECONOMICAL 


Write  for  free  copy  of  beautiful  illus- 
trated catalog  with  special  prices  to  the 
profession. 


J.  A.  White  Lumber  Co. 


P.  O.  Box  35 


Warsaw,  Illinois 


546 


Pattee's 
Hand=Bag  Diet  Book 

Consisting  of 

Measures  and  Weights,  Recipes 
and  Hospital  Dietaries 

REPRINTED  FROM 

Pattee's  "Practical  Dietetics  with 
Reference  to  Diet  in  Health  and  Disease" 


IN  response  to    requests    from    a  large  number 
of  nurses  these    extracts    from  the  Pattee's 
"Practical   Dietetics  with  Reference  to  Diet 
in  Disease"   have  been  collated  into  a  small  book, 
suitable  for  the  nurse's  hand-bag. 

It  is  bound  in  heavy  paper  and  is  sold  only 
to  nurses,  purchasers  of  the  complete  edition. 
Those  who  do  not  purchase  both  the  complete 
book  and  the  Hand- Hag  Diet  Book  at  the  same 
time  can  obtain  the  latter  only  when  the  coupon 
on  the  opposite  page  is  forwarded  to  the  publisher 
or  bookseller  from  whom  book  was  purchased 
and  is  accompanied  by  the  nurse's  professional 
card  or  hospital  order  and  the  price  of  the 
book.  Orders  will  not  be  filled  unless  these 
instructions  are  followed. 

Price  of  Pattee's  "Practical  Dietetics'9  ($1.75 
postpaid)  with  one  copy  Pattee's  Hand- Bag  Diet 
Book,  i*-2.c25  postpaid. 

This  booklet  is  not  published  for  genera]  circula- 
tion, simply  for  the  convenience  of  the  nurse  for 
her  hand-bag  equipment. 

NOTE  FOLLOWING  PAGE 

547  — -^— — i 


COUPON 

The  possession  of  this  coupon  entitles  any 
nurse  to  the  right  to  purchase  one  copy  of  Pattee's 

Hand-Bag  Diet  Book. 

Send  this  coupon  with  your  professional  card 
or  hospital  order  and  50  cents  to  the  publisher  or  to 
the  bookdealer  from  whom  the  book  was  purchased, 
and  a  copy  will  be  forwarded  postpaid. 

A.   F.  PATTEE,  Publisher 
Mount  Vernon  New  York 


Nt 


Address 


NOTE  PRECEDING  PAGE 

54S 


INDEX  TO  SUPPLIES 

FOR  THE 

HOSPITAL -HOME— PHYSICIAN    NURSE 

FOODS: 

Aminoids    510 

Dromedary   Dan  -    

Dr.   Brush's  Kumyss    530  53 1 

Fleischmann    Yeast     525 

FraiKu  American    Broths    517 

Hemaboloids    510 

Horsford's  And   Phosphate   504 

Horlfck's    Malted   Mdk    551 

Hoyts   Gum   Gluten    508  521 

•      KILO    511 

Junket     512 

Junket  Brand  Buttermilk  Tablets   512 

Knox  Gelatine  515 

Lactopeptine     510 

Liquid    Pej  510 

Minute   Tapioca    509 

Nicelle  Olive  Oil   519 

Pabst    Extrac  t    

made    514 

Rumfutd    Baking    Powder    472 

v     I  K/uble    Boilei     527 

Sunkist  Oranges  and  Lemons  529 

Walter   Baker\   Breakfast  Cocoa    503 

White    Rock    Mineral    Water    

|fIS<  ELLANEOUS  SUPPLIES: 

Cultol    510 

Borolyptol     5 10 

Coupon   for   Pattee*s   Handbag    Diet    Book 549 

ird    Shoe     545 

"Davol"    Rubber    Goods    543 

Dietitians    Desiring    Hospital   Positions    522 

Dietitians'     Registry     518   532 

Dix-Make  norms    541 

Excelsior  Quilted  Mattress  Pads 534 

Feeding  the  Family   (Ro->e)    516 

Fellows'   Syrup  of  the    Hypophosphites    505 

( iingham   for   Nurses'   Uniforms    544 

Home    Bureau    536 

Hospitals    Desiring    Dietitians    520 

Laboratory   Hand   Book  for   Dietetics    524 

Mennen's    Kora    Konia    535 

Milk  of  Magnesia,   Sharp   &.    Dohme   507 

Xujol     547 

Nurses'    Journals     526 

Nurses'  Journal    Combination   Offer    ?2>S 

•'   Registry    542 

Pattee'a    Handbag    Diet-  Book    548 

.    I  >oub'e   Boiler    527 

Simplex    Ironer     539 

State    Board    Examination    '  538 

:n"   Binder  and   Abdominal   Supporter    537 

Surgery    Publishing    Company     

533 

546 

By  writing  to  the  above  firms  useful  literature  and  samples  will  be 
forwarded  upon  request.  In  writing,  please  mention  Pattee's  Practical 
Dietetics,   this   courtesy  will  be  greatly  appreciated. 


The  Superiority  of 

"HORLICK'S" 

THE    ORIGINAL    MALTED    MILK 

has  won  for  it  the  endorsement  and  good 
will  of  dietitians   all  over   the    country. 

"HORLICK'S"  has  been  the  stand- 
ard for  over  a  quarter  of  a  century,  and 
is  extensively  used  owing  to  the  purity 
of  its  ingredients,  the  uniformity  of  its 
composition,  and  its  digestibility. 


You  will  find  in  "Practical  Dietetics** 
many  selected  recipes  arranged  and  pre- 
pared with  Horlick's  Malted  Milk,  which 
is  full  evidence  of  Miss  Pattee*s  con- 
fidence in  this  meritorious  food-product. 

ASK  FOR,  AND  GET 

HORLICK'S 

And  Thus  Avoid  Substitution 

'     Our  Booklet  "Beverages  and  Delicacies"  and  a 
Speedy  Mixer  sent  on  Request  (Dept.  C.) 

HORLICK'S  MALTED  MILK  CO. 

Racine,  Wisconsin 


550 


DATE  DUE 

GAYLORD 

PRINTED  IN  U    S    A. 

H    Pattee. 
620     Practical  dietetics 
P27 


