L' D'  S>  a»w«iian  Mimon 


LOCKED 

BX8645 
.T25D6 


B0MEST1G   SGIENGE 


A  BOOK  FOR  USE  IN  SCHOOLS  AND 
FOR  GENERAL  READING. 

(SECOND  AND   REVISED   EDITION 


JAMEl    E.  JALMAGE, 

(o.  S.   D.,   F.  R.   M.   S  ) 


Till,  by  experience  taught  the  mind  shall  learn 
That,  not  to  know  at  large  of  things  remote 
From  use,  obscure  and  subtle,  but  to  know 
That  which  before  us  lies  in  daily  life, 
Is  the  prime  wisdom."— Milton. 


PUBLISHED    BY 

GEORGE  Q.  CANNON  &  SONS  CO. 

SALT    LAKE  CITY,  UTAH. 

1892. 

The  Church  College  of 

Hawaii 

U*ie  8,  J.  H. 


COPYRIGHTED   1892 
—  BY  — 

J.  E.  TALMAGE. 


Locked 


,  TxsD  L 


DEDICATORY. 


KARL  G.  MAESER,  D.  L.  I).. 

To  whom  the  author  owes  so  much,  this 
unpretentious  volume  is  respect- 
fully and  affectionately 
inscribed. 


9804 


FROM  PREFACE  TO  FIRST  EDITION, 


The  author  has  endeavored  to  bring  together,  in  a 
simple  manner,  such  topics  as  have  a  direct  bearing 
upon  the  science  of  domestic  operations.  His  object 
has  been  to  direct  attention  to  daily  household  affairs, — 
affairs  indeed,  which  to  many  are  too  common  to  be 
deemed  worthy  of  earnest  thought.  The  kitchen  and 
the  pantry  may  be  made  a  laboratory  for  the  elucidation 
of  many  important  facts  of  science;  and  as  interest  is 
aroused  in  the  necessary  labors  of  the  household,  much 
of  the  unwelcome  air  of  drudgery  will  vanish  from 
such  work.  As  it  is  plain  that  the  duration  of  our 
mortal  existence  permits  the  exploration  of  but  a  small 
fraction  of  the  domain  of  knowledge,  careful  judgment 
should  be  exercised  in  the  selection  of  subjects  of 
study  ;  the  practical  and  utilitarian  aspect  of  modern 
systems  of  education  testifies  to  the  wide  recognition 
this  fact  has  received  among  the  people  in  general. 

In  this  book,  no  effort  has  been  made  to  secure  an 
unduly  elaborate  or  an  exhaustive  treatment ;  a  large 
work  would  be  poorly  adapted  for  class  use,  and  much 
detail  might  discourage  the  general  reader  in  his 
study.  Liberal  reference  has  been  made  to  the  works 
of  recognized  authorities  on  the  subjects  treated  ;  in 
such  cases,  acknowledgment  has  been  made  in  the  body 
of  the  work.  A  few  passages  are  reprints  of  articles 
that  have  appeared  over  the  author's  signature  in  local 
periodicals. 


PREFACE  TO  SECOND  EDITION. 


"  Domestic  Science  "  having  been  adopted  by  the 
Territorial  Convention  of  School  Officers,  as  a  text 
book  for  the  District  Schools  of  Utah,  the  publication 
of  a  second  edition  is  rendered  necessary.  The  author 
has  endeavored  to  improve  the  little  work  by  correcting 
a  few  typographical  aud  other  errors  of  the  first  issue, 
and  by  adding  a  brief  set  of  review  propositions  at  the 
end  of  each  chapter.  These  with  the  addition  of  a 
few  statements,  a  re -arrangement  of  some  paragraphs, 
and  some  omissions,  constitute  the  principal  changes, 
the  main  plan  of  the  work  remaining  unaltered.  The 
publishers  have  had  prepared  a  new  series  of  illus- 
trative cuts,  which  will  doubtless  be  appreciated. 

For  the  measurement  and  calculations  relative  to 
the  Tabernacle  in  Salt  Lake  City,  the  author  is 
indebted  in  this,  as  in  the  first  edition,  to  Architect 
Don  C.  Young. 

It  is  hoped  that  the  book  in  its  present  form  will 
prove  of  some  value  to  the  writer's  fellow -laborers, — 
teachers  and  students. 

J.   E.   T. 
Salt  Lake  City,  Utah, 
Dec,  1892. 


ANALYSIS  OF  CONTENTS, 

FjPlK.T   I. 


AIR   AND  VENTILATION,  WITH  CHAPTERS  ON  HEATING 
AND   LIGHTING. 


Chapter  1. 

Page. 

Some  physical  properties  of  air;  impenetrability  of  air; 
air  pressure;  weight  etc;  expansion  of  air  by  heat: 
air-pump,  and  experiments  with  same  -  11 

Chapter  2. 
Simple   instruments   utilizing    atmospheric    pressure; 
simple   barometer;    siphon  barometer;  wheel  baro- 
meter;   aneroid    barometer;     storm-glass;    syringe; 
lifting  pump;  force  pump    pipette;  siphon  -       24 

chapter  3. 
Composition    of    thf    Atmosphere;    diffusion   of   gases; 

nitrogen;  oxygen;  carbon-dioxide;  vapor  of  water  38 

Chapter  4. 
Permanency  of  the  atmosphere;  plants  as  agents  of 
atmospheric  purification;  fungi  and  chlorophyle- 
bearing  plants;  mollusks  and  corals  as  removers  of 
carbon  dioxide;  mutual  dependence  of  animals  and 
plants         -  -  -      '    -  -  -  -  51 

Chapter  5. 
The  air  of  rooms;  contamination  from  presence  of  human 
beings;  proximity  of  stables,  etc.;  rate  of  contamina- 
tion; effect  of  lights  and  fires;  cellars  beneath  dwell- 
ings _..-..._  60 

Chapter  6. 
Ill  effects  of  impure  air;    human  respiration;  foul  air 
productive    of     scrofula;     tuberculosis;     tonsilitis; 
dysentery    effect  of  foul  air  on  mental  powers;  popu- 
lar disregard  of  need  for  pure  air  -  -  71 


IV  CONTENTS. 

Chapter  7. 

Page. 
Dust  in  the  air;  dust- inhaling  occupations;  coal  miners 
and  tin  miners;  poisonous  dust;  natural  defenses 
against  dust;  living  organisms  in  dust;  household 
dust;  carpets,  curtains,  etc.,  as  dust-traps;  wall 
papers,  arsenical  papers       -  -  -  -  -       81 

Chapter  8. 

Ventilation:  opposite  currents;  mine  ventilation;  Lyman's 
ventilator;  open  fire-places  as  ventilator-;  exhaust 
fans;  revolving  cowls;  entering  currents  through 
windows  and  transoms  -----       9s 

Chapter  9. 
Some  properties  of  heat:  expansion  of  solids  by  heat; 
force  exerted  by  expanding  solids;  compensation 
pendulums,  gridiron,  and  mercurial  bob;  expansion 
of  liquids  and  gases  by  heat;  thermometers,  Fahren- 
heit and  Celsius  scales,  dial-face  thermometer  -      107 

Chapter  10. 
Communication  of  heat; -latent  and  specific  heat; 
conduction  in  solids;  conductors  of  heat;  convection 
in  fluids;  radiation  of  heat;  latent  heat  and  specific 
heat;  latent  heat  of  water;  beneficial  effects  of 
same  ---------  120 

Chapter  11. 
Production  of  heat;  fuels  and  flame;  chemical  pro- 
ducts of  combustion;  moisture;  carbon-dioxide; 
nature  of  flame;  hollow  condition  of  flame;  fuels; 
woods,  coal;  lignite;  cannel  coal;  bituminous  coal, 
semi -bituminous  coal;  anthracite  coal;  charcoal; 
coke;, coal  gas;  matches.  130 

Chapter  12. 

House  warming;  open  fire-place,  ancient  and  modern; 
stoves;  double  case  stove;  warmed  air;  steam  warm- 
ing; warm  water-heating;  low  pressure  system,  high 
pressure  system  -------      143 

Chapter  13. 

Light  and  lighting;  light  natural  and  artificial;  light  in 
dwellings ;  candles ;  candle  flame ;  effect  of  blow-pipe ; 
simple  lamp ;  Argand  lamp;  hollow- wick  lamp  -      15 


CONTENTS.  V 

Chapter  14. 

Page. 

Lighting  continued;  common  illuminants;   illuminating 

oils;   flashing  point  and  fire  test  of  oils;   coal  gas, 

water  gas,  vapor  gas,  electric  lamps — arc  and  incan 

descent      --------      162 


WATER. 


Chapter  "15. 
Water— its  occurrence; — in  minerals;  in  plants,  fresh  and 
air  dried;   absorption  of   water  by  plants;  force  of 
ascending  sap;    water  in  animal  bodies;   in    human 
bodies        ----....      173 

Chapter  16. 
Water,  some  of    its  uses   and   properties:  as  liquid,  as 

solid,  as  vapor;  freezing  of  water:  ice  crystals  -      181 

Chapter  17. 

SOURCES  of  water; rain-water;  springs;  hill-side  springs; 
fissure  springs;  artesian  wells;  equilibrium  of  liquids; 
intermittent  spring-;  water  of  rivers,  of  wells  -      187 

Chapter  18. 
Water— a  solvent  for  solids;  solids  in  natural  waters, 
conditions  favoring   solution;    hardness   of   water; 
total,  permanent   and  temporary   hardness;    goitre 
prevalent  in  regions  of  hard  water  occurrence        *    -      197 

Chapter  19. 
Water— a  solvent  for  gases  ;  atmospheric  gases  in  water ; 
ammonia  gas  and  hydrogen  sulphide  in  water ;  carbon 
dioxide  in  water;  soda  water;  water  in  the  sickroom      206 

Chapter  20. 
Organic  impurities  in  water;  free  ammonia  and  albumin- 
oid ammonia  in  water;  chlorine  in  water;  ill  effects 
of  organic  contamination  of  water;  suspended  matter 
in  well  water;  living  organisms  in  potable  water       -      212 


VI  CONTENTS. 

Chapter  21. 

Page. 
Simple   tests  for  purity   in   potable   water;   chemical 
analysis  of    water;    color;    clearness;    odor;    taste; 
tests  for  chlorine  and  organic  matters;  filthy  state 
of  grave-fed  waters  -  -  -  -  -      221 

Chapter  22. 
Purification   of  water;   boiling;  distillation;   filtration; 
domestic  filters;  alum  and  tannin  in  water;  waters  of 
Marah ;  Clark's  process  for  softening  water      -  -      226 

Chapter  23. 
Mineral    waters;     sulphur    waters;    carbonated   waters; 
calcium  waters;  chalybeate  waters;  alum  waters!  sil- 
iceous waters;  saline  waters;  temperature  of  spring 
waters;  medicinal  effect  of  mineral  waters        -  -      236 

Chapter  24. 
Composition  of  pure  water:  electrolysis  of  water;  prepar- 
ation and  properties  of  hydrogen;  synthesis  and  ana- 
lysis of  water;  oxy- hydrogen  flame         -  -  -      243 


leAPs.T  in. 


FOOD  AND  ITS  COOKERY. 


Chapter  25. 
Food,  its  nature  and  uses;  bodily  need  of  food,  classifi- 
cation of  foods,— inorganic,  organic,   and  auxiliary; 
advantages  of  mixed  diet;  conditions  of  digestibility; 
object  of  cooking  ------      253 

Chapter  26. 
Mineral  ingredients  of  food  :  water,  salt,  lime,  iron,  sul- 
phur, and  phosphorus,  mineral  ingredients  of  food 
within  the  body  -  -----      261 


CONTENTS.  Vll 

Chapter  27. 

Page. 

Organic  ingredients  of  food:  amyloid  group  of  food  sub- 
si  ances,  sources,  preparation,  and  use  of  starch; 
sugar,— saccharose  and  glucose;  vegetable  gum,  dex- 
trin   -      2fi9 

Chapter  28. 
Carbonaceous  ingredients  of  food,  continued  :  vegetable 
acids — citric  acid,   tartaric   acid,   malic   acid,  oxalic 
acid;   pectin;   fats  and    oils— vegetable  fats,  animal 
fats,  olein,  palmitin,  stearine  ....      27* 

Chapter  29. 
Nitrogenous  ingredients  of  food:  albuminoids  or  pro- 
teids, — albumen,  fibrin,  gelatin,  casein,  gluten,  pro- 
perties of  the  albuminoids  ....      28fi 
Chapter  30. 
Vegetable  foods  and  their  cookery:  tubers,  bulbs  and 
root-,— potatoes,    onions,  turnips,  carrots,  parsnips, 
beets,   radishes;    leaves    and    leaf-stems,— cabbage, 
salads:  fruits:  seeds     ------      295 

Chapter  31. 
Vegetable   foods,    continued:   wheat— bread  and  bread- 
making;  yeast,  effect  of;   baking  powders;  new  and 
stale  bread;  barley;  rye;  oats;  buckwheat;  rice         -      805 

Chapter  32. 
Animal  foods  and  their  cookert:  flesh   as  food;  seeth- 
ing; use  of  water-bath,  roasting,  broiling  or  grilling, 
frying;  eggs  817 

Chapter  33. 
Animal   foods,  continued:  milk,   cream,    butter,  artificial 

butters,  cheese  ._....     325 

Chapter  34. 
Some   auxiliary    foods:    condiments;    vinegar;    pickles; 
lemon   and   lime  juices;  essential  oils   as  flavoring 
agents;    spices;  artificial  drinks— tea,  coffee,  cocoa, 
chocolate  -------      331 

Chapter  35. 
Preservation  of  food  stuffs:  cause  of  decay;  preserva- 
tion by  freezing,  by  hermetic  sealing — canning  and 
bottling,  by  drying,  by    chemical  antiseptics, — salt, 
sugar,  alcohol,  vinegar,  creosote,  boric  acid     -  -      340 


CONTENTS. 
FART      I\7. 


CLEANSING  AGENTS;  AND  POISONS  AND  THEIR  ANTIDOTES. 


Chapter  36. 

Page. 

Cleansing  agents  :  water,  alkalies,  soaps,— hard  soaps,  soft 
soaps,  marine  soap,  colored  soaps,  glycerine  soaps; 
adulterations  of  soap;  aqua  ammonia  and  other 
cleansing  agents  -  -  -  -  -  -351 

Chapter  37. 
Bleaching:  explanation  of  process:  light  and  air  as  bleach- 
ing agents;  sun  bleaching;  art  of  bleaching  as  prac- 
ticed in  Holland;  chlorine;   bleaching  powder;  sul- 
phur dioxide       -------      358 

Chapter  38. 
Disinfectants:  absorbents,  and  deodorizers;  charcoal  and 
lime  as  absorbents;  chlorine  as  a  disinfectant;  chlor- 
ide of  lime;  sulphur  dioxide;  carbolic  acid;  thymol; 
copperas;  corrosive  sublimate;  zinc  salts;  lead  chlor- 
ide; heat:  instructions  for  disinfection  -  -      364 

Chapter  39. 

Poisons  and  their  antidotes:  nature  of  a  poison;  general 
treatment  in  poisoning  cases;  common  poisons  and 
antidotes:— mineral  acids,  organic  acids,  alkalies, 
antimony,  arsenic,  copper,  iron,  lead,  mercury,  silver, 
zinc,  phosphorus;  narcotic  poisons;  irritant  vegeta- 
ble poisons:  poisonous  meat,  fish,  cheese:  animal 
venom        -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -      375 

Index 383 


DOMESTIC  SCIENCE. 


PART   I. 

AIR    AND   VENTILATION'.  WITH    CHAPTERS   ON 
HEATING  AND  LIGHTING. 


CHAPTER  I. 


SOME    PHYSICAL    PROPERTIES    OF    AIR. 

Existence  of  the  Atmosphere. — it  is  generally 

believed  that  the  earth's  surface  is  covered  to  a  depth 
of  several  miles  by  a  gaseous  substance  known  as  air  or 
atmosphere.  Owing  to  its  transparency,  this  covering 
is  not  apparent  to  our  powers  of  sight;  there  are 
however,  other  means  by  which  we  may  become  con- 
vinced of  its  existence.  When 
the  air  is  in  motion,  it  gives 
rise  to  the  phenomenon  of 
winds  ;  and  the  speed  with 
which  the  moving  air  travels 
determines  the  difference  be- 
tween the  pleasant  zephyr, 
and  the  destructive  hurricane. 
The  following  simple  opera- 
tion will  conclusively  prove 
the  existence  of  the  atmos- 
phere : 

Place  a  cork  on  water  con- 
tained in  a  large  bowl  or  other  convenient  vessel ;  take 
now  a  tumbler  or  a  goblet,  and  while  holding  it  verti- 
cally, with  the  open  end  downward,  lower  it  over  the 
floating  cork,  pressing  downward  until  the  glass  is 
submerged.  As  the  cork  does  not  rise  within  the 
glass,  we  know  that  the  water  has  not  entered. 


Figl. 

kir  preventing  entrance    of 

water. 


12 


DOMESTIC    SCIENCE. 


Now,  a  very  simple,  yet  proper  question  is,  what 
keeps  the  water  from  filling  the  ■  inverted  goblet? 
Liquids,  it  is  correctly  said,  show  a  tendency  to  seek 
their  levels.  There  must  be  something  inside  the 
glass,  which  presses  against  the  water,  and  prevents 
its  entrance.  Had  it  not  been  for  the  pressure  ex- 
erted by  this  invisible  something,  the  water  would 
have  risen  to  the  same  height  within  the  vessel  as 
without,  or  until  the  glass 
was  entirely  filled.  This 
may  be  made  much  clearer 
by  another  experiment : — 

Take  an  ordinary  lamp 
chimney,  which  of  course, 
is  open  at  both  ends.  While 
holding  it  in  a  vertical 
position,  push  the  chimney 
into  the  water  as  was  done 
with  the  tumbler  in  the  for- 
mer experiment.  The  liquid 
will  stand  at  the  same  level  inside  and  outside  the 
chimney.  The  water,  in  this  case,  pushes  the  air 
from  the  open  glass,  and  takes  its  place.  If  the 
chimney  had  been  previously  filled  with  smoke  from  a 
bit  of  burning  rag,  or  thick,  coarse  paper,  the  move- 
ments of  the  escaping  air, as  it  overflowed  the  chimney, 
would  be  clearly  visible. 

Impenetrability  Of  Air  .—The  following  very  beau  - 
tiful  illustration  of  the  impenetrability  of  air  is  suitable 
for  the  lecture  table,  and  can  be  performed  by  anybody 
who  will  provide  himself  with   a  few  simple  requisites 


Fig  2. 
Water  expelling  air. 


PHYSICAL    PROPERTIES    OF    AIR. 


13 


in  the  way  of  apparatus,  and  who  will  exercise  a  mod- 
erate degree  of  patience  and  perseverance.  In  the 
figure,  A  represents  a  wide -mouth  bottle,  capable  of 
holding  a  pint  or  more;  this  is  provided  with  a 
tightly  fitting  cork,  through  which  two  holes  are 
bored.  B  is  a  funnel -tube  passing  through  one  of 
the  perforations  in  the  cork  ;  a  piece  of  wide  glass 
tubing  could  be  employed,  though  less  conveniently, 
instead   of  the  funnel   tube.     C  represents  a   delivery 


Fig.  3. 
Impenetrability  of  Air. 


tube  of  glass ;  this  may  be  easily  shaped  from  a  piece 
of  glass  tubing  of  the  required  length,  first  softened 
in  a  lamp  flame.  D  is  a  basin  or  any  suitable  vessel 
containing  water,  beneath  the  surface  of  which  the  de- 
livery tube  C  terminates.  E  is  an  ordinary  bottle, 
which  is  to  be  first  filled  with  water,  then  inverted 
over  the  end  of  the  delivery  tube,  and  there  supported 


14  DOMESTIC    SCIENCE. 

on  any  convenient  stand,  or  held  in  position  by  the 
experimenter. 

Now,  as  water  is  poured  through  the  funnel  tube 
into  the  bottle,  air  is  forced  therefrom,  and  escapes 
through  the  delivery  tube  iuto  the  inverted  vessel.  It 
may  be  shown  by  measurement,  that  just 'as  much  air 
is  crowded  out  as  water  is  poured  in.  Thus  we  see 
that  this  transparent,  invisible  air  possesses  in  its  own 
degree  many  of  the  properties  of  other  heavier 
matter.  It  occupies  a  definite  amount  of  room,  and 
prevents  other  things  occupying  that  space  at  the  same 
time. 

Weight  of  [Air. — The  atmosphere  also  possesses 
weight.  By  carefully  weighing  a  closed  vessel  filled 
with  air,  and  then  weighing  it  again  after  the  air  has 
been  drawn  out  by  means  of  a  pump,  the  weight  of 
air  has  been  accurately  determined.  By  such  means  it 
has  been  found  that  a  cubic  inch  of  dry  .air  at  the 
surface  of  the  sea  weighs  .31  grains.  A  hundred 
cubic  inches  would  weigh  therefore  31  grains;  and  a 
cubic  foot  would  weigh  535.68  grains,  or  about  1.11 
ounces.  About  14.4  cubic  feet  of  dry  air  would  be 
required  to  weigh  a  pound.  A  sitting  room  of 
ordinary  size,  say  14  feet  long,  12  feet  wide  and  9 
feet  high,  would  contain  nearly  105  pounds  of  air  ;  and 
a  large  room  suitable  for  public  assemblies,  say  40  feet 
by  40  feet,  and  18  feet  high,  would  hold  about  a  ton 
of  air. 

Effect  of  Altitude  on  Weight  of  Air.— These  cal- 
culations apply  only  to  air  at  the  sea  level ;  at  greater 
altitudes  the   atmosphere  is  less   dense,  so  that  fewer 


PHYSICAL    PROPERTIES    OF    AIR. 


15 


particles  are  contained  in  a  given  space.  At  the 
altitude  of  Salt  Lake  City,  a  cubic  inch  of  dry  air 
weighs  only  .26  grains;  a  cubic  foot  weighs  .93 
ounces;  and  17.2  cubic  feet  weigh   one  pound. 

Elasticity  Of  Air. — An  interesting  demonstration 
of  the  elasticity  of  the  atmosphere  may  be  made  with  the 
apparatus  shown  in  figure  4.  A  hollow 
body,  which  is  best  made  of  glass  or 
porcelain,  and  which,  as  in  the  figure, 
may  be  shaped  like  a  balloon,  is  immersed 
in  water  within  a  tall  glass  cylinder.  The 
balloon  is  partly  filled  with  water,  the 
remaining  space  being,  of  course,  oc- 
cupied by  air.  A  very  small  hole  near 
the  lower  end  of  the  balloon  permits 
water  to  pass  in  or  out.  A  piece  of 
sheet  rubber  is  tied  over  the  mouth  of  the 
jar.  Any  pressure  applied  on  the 
rubber  is  transmitted  by  the  water  to 
the  air  confined  in  the  balloon  ;  this  air 
becomes  compressed,  and  consequently 
more  water  enters  the  balloon,  which 
therefore  sinks.  When  the  pressure 
on  the  rubber  top  is  removed,  the  elastic- 
ity of  the  air  in  the  balloon  expels  the  excess  of 
water  ;   and  the  balloon  rises. 

Pressure  Of  Liquids. — It  is  well  known  that  liquids 
exert  a  definite  pressure  on  bodies  immersed  in  them.  A 
forcible  demonstration,  which  may  readily  be  per- 
formed by  ocean  voyagers,  is  as  follows  :  A  stout  bottle 
is   tightly   corked,  and   then  attached   to   a  long  cord, 


Fig.  4. 

Showing 

elasticity  of 

air. 


16 


DOMESTIC    SCIENCE. 


weighted,  and  thrown  overboard,  the  string  being 
paid  out  as  fast  as  the  bottle  sinks.  After  a  considera- 
ble depth  has  been  reached,  the  cord  is  drawn  in.  In 
most  cases,  the  cork  will  be  found  forced  into  the 
bottle  through  the  great  pressure  of  the  water.  If, 
however,  the  cork  used  was  of  the  "Tom  Thumb" 
pattern,  so  that  it  could  not  enter,  the  bottle  may  be 
crushed. 

Atmospheric  Pressure. — in  an  analogous  way, 

the  air  presses  upon  every 
object  on  which  it  rests. 
To  demonstrate:  Com- 
pletely fill  a  drinking 
glass  with  water;  lay  over 
the  top  a  piece  of  glazed 
note  paper ;  hold  the 
latter  firmly  in  position 
by  placing  the  palm  of 
the  hand  over  it,  and 
invert  the  vessel.  The 
pressure  of  the  air  will 
hold  the  paper  in  position  against  the  mouth  of  the 
glass  after  the  hand  has  been  removed,  and  in  spite  of 
the  weight  of  the  water  which  rests  upon  the  paper. 
This  is  illustrated  in  figure  5. 

This  demonstration  may  be  very  prettily  varied  by 
first  tying  a  piece  of  coarse  muslin  over  the  top  of  the 
glass.  The  vessel  is  to  be  filled  with  water,  covered 
with  a  piece  of  paper,  and  inverted  as  before.  If  the 
paper  be  then  carefully  drawn  away,  the  water  is  still 


Fig  5. 
Upward  pressure  of  the  air. 


PHYSICAL    PROPERTIES    OF    AIR. 


17 


kept  within  by  the  upward  atmospheric  pressure, 
which  is  exerted  on  the  water  within  the  vessel ;  while 
the  bottom  of  the  rigid  glass  receives  the  downward 
pressure,  but  does  not  communicate  it  to  the  liquid 
within.  The  upward  pressure  therefore  operates  with- 
out the  downward  pressure  to  counter-balance  it. 

Another  experiment  should  follow  :  Instead  of  a  glass 
vessel  use  a  common  fruit  can,  the   cover  having  been 


Fig.  6. 
Atmospheric  pressure. 


removed,  a  piece  of  muslin  tied  over  as  before,  and  a 
small  hole  punched  in  the  opposite  end,  as  shown  in 
the  illustration,  figure  6.  Now  place  the  finger  over 
the  small  opening ;  fill  the  vessel  with  water,  cover 
with  a  piece  of  glazed  paper,  and  iuvert  as  before. 
When  satisfied  that  the  pressure  of  the  air  sustains  the 
water  within  the  can,  remove  the  finger,  and  im- 
mediately the  liquid  flows  out,  the  downward 
atmospheric  pressure  being  communicated  to  the  con- 
tents of  the   vessel   through   the   tiny  aperture.     This 


18  DOMESTIC    SCIENCE. 

downward  pressure  with  the  weight  of  the  water  added, 
is  evidently  greater  than  the  upward  pressure  of  the 
atmosphere  alone.  The  latter  is  overcome,  and  there- 
fore the  liquid  falls. 

Expansion   of  Air  by    Heat.— An    interesting 

demonstration  may  be  made  by  taking  a  hard-boiled 
egg,  from  which  the  shell  has  been  carefully  removed. 
A  bottle,  with  a  mouth  sufficiently  large  to  partially 
but  not  completely  admit  the  egg,  is  to  be  provided. 
Place  now  in  the  bottle  a  bit  of  burning  paper  ;  or  hold 
within  it  by  means  of  tongs  a  "live"  coal.  The  effect 
of  the  heat  is  to  expand  the  air,  causing  much  of  it  to 
pass  entirely  out  of  the  bottle.  Now  put  the  egg  in 
position,  like  a  stopper  within  the  mouth.  As  the  air 
within  the  bottle  cools,  it  contracts  ;  the  outer  air,  in 
its  endeavor  to  enter  the  bottle,  presses  on  the 
egg,  and  forces  it  inward,  frequently  with  a  loud 
report. 

The  expansion  of  air  by  heat  may  be  further 
illustrated  in  this  way  :  Take  a  small  cup,  burn  a  bit 
of  paper  within  it,  or  hold  a  glowing  coal  by  tongs  as 
in  the  case  of  the  egg  and  bottle  experiment,  des- 
cribed above.  The  air  becomes  heated  and  expanded, 
and  a  portion  is  driven  out.  Now  remove  the  fire, 
and  press  the  mouth  of  the  cup  on  the  fleshy  part  of 
the  arm.  As  contraction  by  cooling  occurs,  the  ex- 
perimenter is  made  aware  of  a  strong,  and  even 
painful  tendency  of  the  flesh  to  enter  the  vessel.  This 
is  a  crude  illustration  of  the  surgical  operation  of 
cupping,    which   was   in   general  use   years  ago.      By 


PHYSICAL    PROPERTIES    OF    AIR. 


19 


such  means,  blood  and  other  matter  could  be  drawn 
from  an  affected  part  of  the  body  without  the  use  of 
the  lancet. 

The  Air  Pump. — Many  other  demonstrations, 
no  less  instructive  than  impressive,  may  be  made  by 
the  aid  of  an  Air  Pump.     The  essential  points  in  the 


Fig.  v. 
Air  Pump. 

construction  of  this  useful  instrument  will  be  under- 
stood by  reference  to  the  cuts.  Figure  7  shows  the 
complete  instrument.  C  is  the  cylinder,  within  which 
a  piston  works,  operated  by  the  lever  L.  As  the 
piston  is  raised,  air  is  drawn  from  the  large  globe  or 
receiver  R  on  the  left.  The  mode  of  operation  will  be 
seen  by  a  study  of  figure  8,  which  shows  the  air  pump 


20 


DOMESTIC    SCIENCE. 


in  section.  A  valve,  C,  is  connected  with  the  piston, 
within  the  cylinder ;  a  second  valve,  B,  is  situated  at 
the  bottom  of  the  cylinder ;  these  valves  open  only 
in  an  upward  direction;  a  tube,  A,  leads  from  the 
receiver -plate  to  the  cylinder.  As  the  tightly -fitting 
piston  is  raised,  air  passes  through  the  tube  A,  opens 
the  valve  B,  and  fills  the  space  between  the  piston  and 
the  bottom  of  the  cylinder.  With  the  first  down- 
stroke,  the  air  confined  within  the  cylinder  becomes 
compressed,  it  forces  open  the  piston  valve,  and 
escapes.      In  subsequent   strokes   more  air  is   drawn 

through  the  tube 
A,  and  a  globe 
or  receiver  plac- 
ed upon  the  plate 
over  the  en- 
trance to  A 
would  soon  be- 
come exhausted. 
In  figure  7,  E 
represents  an  exit 
tube,  which  conducts  the  air  from  the  upper  part  of 
the  cylinder. 

Hand-glass  Experiments. — As  an  impressive 
illustration  of  atmospheric  pressure,  place  a  hand  glass, 
which  is  simply  a  hollow  cylinder  open  at  both  ends, 
over  the  aperture  in  the  air  pump  plate ;  now  cover 
the  upper  opening  with  the  hand.  As  the  air  is  ex- 
hausted, the  hand  is  firmly  held  against  the  vessel. 
A    piece    of     sheet    rubber    may    be    tied     over    the 


Fig, 
Section  of  Air  Pump, 


PHYSICAL    PROPERTIES    OF    AIR. 


21 


Fig.  9. 

Sheet  rubber  under  pressure. 


open  glass ;  as  shown  in 
figure  9  ;  as  the  air  is  drawn 
out  the  rubber  is  forced 
into  the  jar  so  as  almost 
entirely  to  cover  the  in- 
side. If  instead  of  the 
rubber,  a  piece  of  bladder 
be  tied  over  the  jar,  the 
air  pressure    from    above 


will  burst  the  bladder  inward  with  a  loud  report. 


Fig.  10. 
Magdeburg  hemispheres. 

The  Magdeburg  Hemispheres  furnish  a  still  more 

striking  effect  of  atmospheric  pressure.  These  are  two 
hollow  half  globes,  made  to  accurately  fit  each  other  at 
the  edges.  The  air  is  exhausted  from  within  by  attach- 
ing the  pair  to  the  air  pump  ;  after  which  the  stop -cock 
is  turned  to  prevent  a  re -entrance  of  air.  The  pressure 
of  the  atmosphere  is  so  strong,  that  very  great  force  is 
required  to  pull  the  hemispheres  apart.  (See  figure 
10.)  The  apparatus  derives  its  specific  name  from  the 
fact  that  the  first  experiment  of  the  kind  is  supposed 
to  have  been  made  at  Magdeburg,  by  Otto  von 
Guericke,  in  1654.  It  is  said  that  he  used  hemispheres 
so   large   and   effective,    that  after    the    air    had   been 


Thi 


tibrary  of 
Church  College  of 

Hawaii 
k"*e  8,  T.  H. 


9804 


22 


DOMESTIC    SCIENCE. 


exhausted,  twenty  horses   were   unable   to  pull   them 
apart. 

Air  Supporting1  a  Column  of  Liquid. — Take  a 
bottle,  fill  it  completely  with  water,  place  over  the 
opening  a  plate  of  glass,  invert  it  with  its  mouth  just 
below  the  surface  of  water  in  a  larger  vessel,  as  in 
figure  11.  The  water  remains  in  the  bottle,  though  it 
stands  far  above  the  level  in  the  outer  vessel ;  it  is  held 
there  by  the  downward  pressure  of  the  air  which  is 
received   on   the   surface    of    the   liquid    in   the  outer 


Fig  11. 

Air  pressure  supporting  a  column  of  water. 


vessel,  and  thence  transmitted  to  the  contents  of  the 
bottle.  It  is  very  readily  seen,  that  as  the  mouth  of 
the  inverted  bottle  is  below  the  surface  of  the  water 
in  the  larger  vessel,  air  could  not  enter  the  bottle  from 
without,  even  if  the  contained  water  could  be  with- 
drawn. This  phenomenon  was  discussed  as  long  ago 
as  the  days  of  Aristotle,  the  noted  Grecian  philosopher, 
who  has  been  dead  now   about   twenty-one  centuries. 


PHYSICAL    PROPERTIES    OF    AIR.  23 

» 

He  taught  the  people,  that  '■'Nature  dislikes  a 
vacuum."  By  "vacuum"  is  meant  an  empty  space, 
one  that  is  devoid  even  of  air. 


REVIEW. 

1.  Describe  an  experiment  to  prove  the  existence  of   the 
atmosphere. 

2.  Describe  experiments  to  prove  that  air  is  impenetrable. 

3.  How  may  the  weight  of  the  atmosphere  be  demonstrated? 

4.  Give  illustrations  of  the  weights  of  measured  quantities  of 
air. 

5.  Compare  the  weights  of  equal  volumes  of  air  at  the  sea 
level  and  at  the  altitude  of  Salt  Lake  City. 

6.  Explain  the  difference. 

7.  How  would  you  prove  that  air  exerts  pressure? 

8.  Demonstrate  the  expansion  of  air  by  heat. 

9.  Explain  the  surgical  operation  of  "  cupping." 

10.  Sketch  the  principal  parts  of  the  air  pump,  and  explain  the 
operation  of  the  instrument. 

11.  Describe  and  explain  the  hand  glass  experiment. 

12.  Explain  the  operation  of  the  Magdeburg  hemispheres. 

13.  Describe  a  demonstration  of  air  pressure  supporting  a 
column  of  water. 

14.  How  did  Aristotle  attempt  to  explain  this  phenomenon? 


24 


DOMESTIC    SCIENCE. 


CHAPTER  2. 


SIMPLE    INSTRUMENTS    UTILIZING    ATMOSPHERIC    PRESSURE. 

Atmospheric   Pressure   Measured. — We    may 

very  properly  ask  if  there  be  a  limit  to  the  supporting- 
power  of  the  air  ;  or  if  the  atmospheric  pressure  which 
sustains  the  water  in  the   bottle,  as   described  in   the 

preceding  chapter,  would 
be  able  to  hold  a  column  of 
liquid  of  indefinite  height. 
This  question  has  been 
answered  by  experiment. 
If  at  the  sea  level  we  could 
take  a  tube,  say  thirty-six 
feet  long, and  closed  at  one 
end,  fill  it  with  water,  and 
invert  it  with  its  open  end 
beneath  the  surface  of 
water,  the  liquid  would 
sink  to  the  level  of  thirty - 
four  feet, leaving  a  vacuum 
in  the  upper  part  of  the 
tube  for  the  space  of  two 
feet.  This  fact  caused 
Galileo,  who  lived  in  the 
column  earlier  part  of  the  seven- 
teenth century,  to  gravely 
Nature   does   not   dislike  a  vacuum   beyond 


Air  pressure  supportin 
of  mercury. 


assert : 


ATMOSPHERIC    PRESSURE.  25 

thirty-four  feet."  The  true  explanation  evidently  is 
that  the  air  pressure  is  just  powerful  enough  to  sup- 
port a  column  of  water  thirty-four  feet  high.  If  a  tube 
be  filled  with  mercury  (quicksilver),  and  inverted  in  a 
vessel  of  the  same  liquid,  the  column  will  be  sustained 
at  the  level  of  thirty  inches.  If  the  tube  be  longer 
than  thirty  inches,  the  mercury  will  fall  to  that  level, 
and  a  vacuum  will  be  formed  in  the  upper  part,  as 
illustrated  in  figure  12.  Now  mercury  is  13.6  times 
heavier  than  water ;  and  34  feet,  which  is  the  height  at 
which  the  water  column  may  be  sustained,  is  13.6  times 
30  inches,  which  latter  is  the  height  at  which  the  mercury 
column  stands.  In  other  words,  a  column  of  mercury  30 
inches  high,  would  weigh  the  same  as  a  column  of 
water  of  equal  diameter  34  feet  high.  Here  then  is  a 
very  convenient  method  of  measuring  the  pressure  of 
the  atmosphere.  Suppose  the  tube  used  in  the  experi- 
ment with  quicksilver  described  above,  has  a  cross-sec- 
tion of  1  square  inch  ;  the  mercury  stands  30  inches 
high,  therefore  the  tube  contains  30  cubic  inches  of 
the  liquid  ;  and  this  amount  of  mercury  is  found  by 
trial  to  weigh  about  15  pounds.  We  may  conclude, 
therefore,  that  the  pressure  of  the  air  is  equal  to  7.7 
pounds  per  square  inch. 

Effect  of  Altitude  on  Air  Pressure.— This  last 

statement,  however,  is  strictly  true  only  under  the  con- 
ditions prevailing  at  the  sea  level ;  for  the  atmospheric 
pressure  is  found  to  vary  greatly  at  different  altitudes. 
The  higher  we  proceed  above  the  level  of  the  sea,  the 
less  becomes  the  air  pressure.  By  carefully  noting  at 
different    stations    the    height    at    which   the   mercury 


26 


DOMESTIC    SCIENCE. 


stands  in  a  tube  arranged  as  described  above,  the 
relative  altitudes  of  those  places  may  be  determined 
with  fair  accuracy.  At  a  height  of  four  miles  above 
the  sea  level,  the  mercurial  column  would  be  about 
half  its  ordinary  height,  or  fifteen  inches;  and  at  an 
elevation  of  twenty  miles  it  is  supposed  the  pressure 
would  not  support  a  column  higher  than  one  inch. 
At  the  altitude  of  Salt  Lake  City,  the  mean  height  of 
the  mercurial  column  is  25.6  inches:  this  corresponds 
to  a  pressure  of  12.8  pounds  per  square  inch.  At  this 
altitude,  the  body  of  a  man  of  medium  size,  possessing 
2000  square  inches  of  sur- 
face, would  sustain  a 
weight  of  25,600  pounds, 
or  12.8  tons;  at  the  sea 
level  such  a  person  would 
be  under  a  pressure  of 
30,000  pounds,  or  fully  15 
tons.  However,  as  there 
is  air  within  the  body,  this 
enormous  pressure  is 
equally  balanced. 

The  roof  of  the  large 
Tabernacle  at  Salt  Lake 
City  measures  4  2,500 
square  feet ;  the  air  pres  - 
sure  thereon  amounts  to 
39,168  tons;  at  the  sea 
level,  with  the  mercurial 
column  at  30  inches,  such  a  surface  would  be  under  an 
atmospheric  pressure  of  45,900  tons. 


Fig.  13. 

Showing  fluctuations  of  the 

mercurial  column. 


ATMOSPHERIC    PRESSURE. 


27 


The  Barometer. — Such  an  instrument  as  that 
already  described, — a  tube  of  proper  length  filled 
with  mercury  and  inverted  in  a  cistern  of  the  same 
liquid,  is  usually  called  a  Barometer,  the  term  meaning 
"weight  measurer."  Many  different  forms  of  bar- 
ometers are  now  in  use ;  the  most  accurate  being  the 
mercurial  barometer  similar  in  principle  to  the  kind 
already  described.  To  demonstrate  the  effect  of  vary- 
ing air  pressure  on  the  barometric 
column,  proceed  as  follows,  (see  figure 
13)  :  Invert  a  barometer  tube  filled  with 
mercury  in  a  bottle  of  the  same  liquid. 
Provide  a  doubly  perforated  cork,  which 
tightly  fits  the  bottle  mouth  ;  insert  the 
cork  with  the  inverted  tube  passing 
through,  and  place  a  short  tube  in  the 
other  perforation.  By  blowing  through 
the  short  tube,  an  increased  pressure  is 
exerted  on  the  mercury  within  the 
bottle,  and  the  column  rises.  By 
applying  suction,  some  of  the  air  is 
drawn  from  the  bottle,  the  pressure  up- 
on the  contained  mercury  is  lessened, 
and     the    column     falls.  Thus     we 

may  see  illustrated  within  a  room  such 
barometric  differences  as  exist  between 
the  mountain-top  and  the  sea-level. 

Siphon  Barometer. — A  very  good 

instrument   is    the     siphon     barometer, 

illustrated  in  figure  14.     This  consists  of  a  glass  tube 


i , 


28 


DOMESTIC    SCIENCE. 


of  proper  length,  bent  upward  at  the  bottom  so  as  to 
form  two  arms  of  unequal  length.  The  short  arm  is 
open,  the  long  arm  closed.     When  the  tube  is   filled 


Fig.  15. 
Wheel  barometer, 


ATMOSPHERIC    PRESSURE. 


29 


with  mercury  and  inverted,  a  vacuum  is  formed  in  the 
upper  part  of  the  long  arm,  the  height  of  the  liquid 
column  depending  upon  the  prevailing  atmospheric 
pressure.  The  tube  is  permanently  graduated  above 
and  below  a  point,  selected  near  the  middle  of  the  long 
arm  and  marked  zero  (0).  The  height  of  the  column 
is  determined  by  reading  the  level  of  the  mercury  in 
the  long  arm  above  0,  and  that  in  short  arm  below  0, 
and  adding  the  two  readings. 

An  interesting  variation  in  the  siphon  form  of  bar- 
ometer is  the  Wheel  Barometer,  the  operation  of  which 
will  be  understood  from  figure  15.  Resting  on  the 
mercury  in  the  short  arm  of  the  tube   is  a  float,  which 

rises  and  falls  with  the 
liquid.  By  means  of  a 
string  and  pulley,  these 
movements  are  communi- 
cated to  an  axis  upon 
which  a  needle  is  fixed. 
This  needle  moves  in 
front  of  a  graduated  disc 
on  which  the  different 
states  of  the  weather, 
such  as  "change," 
"fair,"  "stormy,'' 
''rain,''  etc.,  are 
marked. 
Aneroid  Barometer. — Another  very  convenient 
instrument  is  the  so-called  aneroid  barometer,  (figure 
16),  in  general   shape   not   unlike   a   watch.     The  air 


Fig.  16. 
Aneroid  barometer. 


30  DOMESTIC    SCIENCE. 

pressure  is  transmitted  from  a  very  thin  and  flexible 
metallic  casing  to  a  system  of  levers  acting  upon  the 
dial  finger.  The  dial  is  graduated  to  correspond  with 
a  standard  mercurial  barometer.* 

The  Barometer  and  the  Weather.— Even  at  a 

fixed  station  the  barometric  reading  is  seldom  constant 
for  any  great  length  of  time,  from  which  fact  we  learn 
that  the  atmospheric  pressure  is  continually  varying. 
Sudden  and  violent  weather  changes  are  usually 
accompanied  by  fluctuations  in  the  barometric  column. 
But  the  common  belief  that  a  decreasing  pressure,  as 
indicated  by  a  fall  in  the  barometric  height,  is  an  in- 
fallible indication  of  approaching  storms,  and  that  a 
"rising  barometer"  is  surely  indicative  of  fair  weather, 
can  scarcely  be  relied  upon.  We  have  not  yet 
mastered  the  true  science  of  weather  indications.  The 
wind  still  "bloweth  where  it  listeth,"  irrespective  of 
our  artificial  rules.  Our  confidence  in  the  barometer's 
indications  should  not  be  impaired  on  this  account. 
That  little  instrument  simply  informs  us  of  changes 
in  atmospheric  pressure ;  if  we  interpret  such  infor- 
mation to  mean  rain,  wind,  or  fair  weather,  we  do  so 
of  our  own  accord  :  the  barometer  told  us  no  such 
thing. 

The  so-ealled  Storm  Glass. — There  is  an  instru- 


*Tke  wor  d  aneroid  means  literally,  "without  moisture,"  and.  is 
applied  to  this  form  of  barometer  because  no  quicksilver  or  other 
liquid  is  used  in  its  construction.  A  good  aneroid  is  a  sensitive 
instrument,  even  capable  of  showing  the  difference  in  atmos- 
pheric pressure  between  a  table  top  and  the  floor  beneath. 


ATMOSPHERIC    PRESSURE. 


31 


ment  known  as  the  storm  glass, 
now  in  common  use.  It  consists 
of  a  sealed  tube  containing  a 
chemical  solution,  in  which  crys- 
tals appear  with  varying  profusion. 
It  is  plain  that  the  pressure  of  the 
air  can  in  no  way  affect  the  con- 
tents of  the  tube,  as  the  latter  is 
hermetically  sealed.  The  author 
has  made  systematic  observations 
on  a  number  of  the  instruments, 
and  finds  then  entirely  unreliable 
as  indicators  of  atmospheric  pres- 
sure. The  solvent  power  of  the 
contained  liquid  is  affected  by 
changes  in  temperature,  and  the 
instrument  has  a  stronger  sem- 
blance to  claim  as  a  thermometer 
than  as  a  barometer.  The  "storm 
glass*'  is  well  designed  as  a  selling  article  and  as  a 
wall  ornament. 

Syringe  and  Pump. — The  pressure  of  the  atmos- 
phere is  turned  to  practical  account  in  the  con- 
struction and  operation  of  many  simple  instru- 
ments, among  which  the  pump  is  prominent.  An 
essential  feature  of  the  pump  is  illustrated  by  the 
common  syringe.  In  figure  18  a  vessel  of  water  is 
shown;  in  it  are  inserted  two  cylinders,  each  pro- 
vided with  a  tightly -fitting  piston  and  a  convenient 
handle.      In  the  figure  on-  the  left,  the  piston  is  at  the 


Fig.   17. 
Jtorm  glass. 


32 


DOMESTIC    SCIENCE. 


bottom  of  the  cylinder ;  in  the   right  hand  sketch  the 
piston  is  partly  raised,  the  water  following  it. 

The  Lifting1  Pump,    (figure   19)    consists    essen- 
tially of  a  barrel  containing  a  piston  and  valves,  oper- 


Fig.  18. 

Syringe. 


Fig.  19. 
Lifting  pump. 


ated  by  means  of  a  lever  handle.  A  pipe  passes  from 
the  pump  barrel  to  the  well.  At  A  is  placed  a  valve, 
so  constructed  as  to  open  only  upward.  Any  pres- 
sure   received  from    above    tightly    closes    the    valve. 


ATMOSPHERIC    PRESSURE. 


33 


Other  valves  similar  in  action  are  placed  in  the  piston 
at  B.  As  the  piston  ascends,  the  water  follows  it, 
owing  to  the  pressure  being  relieved  within  the  barrel, 
while  the  atmosphere 
presses  with  ordinary  in- 
tensity on  the  water  sur- 
face in  the  well.  The 
force  of  the  inflowing 
water  is  sufficient  to  force 
open  the  valve  A.  As 
soon  as  the  down  stroke 
of  the  piston  begins,  how- 
ever, the  pressure  closes 
the  barrel  valve,  while  the 
water  forces  up  the  piston 
valves,  and  fills  the  space 
above  the  piston.  This 
water  is  lifted  to  the 
spout  at  the  next  up- 
stroke. 

Limits  of  Efficiency 
in  Lifting  Pumps.— As 
before  explained,  the  at- 
mospheric pressure  at  the 
sea  level  is  about  15 
pounds  to  each  square  inch,  and  this  is  sufficient  to  raise 
and  sustain  a  column  of  water  34  feet  high.  Under 
the  most  favorable  circumstances  therefore,  if  the  full 
pressure  of  15  pounds  to  the  square  inch  were  real- 
ized, water  could  not  be  drawn  by  a  lifting  pump 
from   a    greater    depth    than    34    feet;  and  in    actual 


Fig.  20. 
Force  pump. 


34 


DOMESTIC    SCIENCE. 


practice,  through  imperfect  action  of  the  pump,  this 
theoretical  efficiency  is  never  attained.  Lifting  pumps 
are  seldom  able  to  draw  water  more  than  28  feet. 
This  is  equal  to  a  little  more  than  12  pounds  to  the 
square  inch.  At  this  altitude  (Salt  Lake  City)  under 
exceptionally   favorable  circumstances,   lifting    pumps 


Fig.  21. 
The  Dropping  Tube  or  Pipette. 

may  draw  water  from  a  depth  of  22  feet;  but  as  a 
rule.  18  feet  is  considered  a  maximum,  and  16  feet 
is  the  general  limit  of  efficiency. 

Force  Pump. — If  it  be  desired  to  lift  water 
to  a  greater  height  than  this,  a  force  pump  must 
be  employed.  This  device  (figure  20)  is  provided 
with  a  solid  piston  and  a  pair  of  valves ;    one    valve 


ATMOSPHERIC    PRESSURE. 


35 


A  being  set  in  the  barrel,  as  in  the  case  of  the 
lifting  pump,  and  the  other,  B  being  connected  with 
a  discharge  pipe,  through  which  the  water  is  driven 
by  the  down  stroke  of  the  piston.  The  limitations  to 
the  operation  of  the  force  pump  lie  in  the  strength  of 
the  material  from  which  the  pump  is  constructed,  and 
in  the  power  applied. 

The  Dropping  Tube,  or  Pipette,  is  based  on  the 

application  of  air  pressure  (see  figure  21).  By  applying 
suction  at  one  end,  while  the  other  end  is  immersed  in 
liquid,  the  tube  may  be  filled  ;  the  finger  then  being  so 
placed  as  to  close  the  upper  opening,  the  liquid  can  be 
held  in  the  tube  and  be  allowed  to  escape  as  de- 
sired. Such  tubes  may  easily  be  made  from  ordi- 
nary glass  tubing  (figure  22.)  Pipettes  will  be 
found  of  great  service  in  many  simple  operations 
of  the  household,  such  as  the  measuring  of  flavoring 
extracts,  medicines,  and  the  like. 

A 


Fig.  22. 
Simple  Pipette. 


Fig  23. 
The  Siphon. 


The  Siphon  (figure  23 )  consists  essentially  of  a  bent 
tube,  with  arms  of  unequal  length.  If  the  short  arm, 
C  A,  be  inserted  in  any  liquid,   and  suction  be  applied 


36 


DOMESTIC    SCIENCE. 


at  the  end  of  the  long  arm,  A  B,  the  liquid  may  be 
drawn  through  the  tube,  and  will  continue  to  flow 
after  the  suction  has  ceased.*     This  simply  device  may 


Siphon  transferring 


Fig. 24 . 
liquid  without  disturbing  sediment. 


Siphon  transfer 


Fig.  25. 
ig  liquid  without  disturbing  top  layer. 


*If  the  siphon  be  filled  with  liquid,the  ends  closed,  and  the  short 
arm  inserted  in  a  vessel  of  liquid,  a  flow  will  take  place  without 
suction  being  applied.  The  explanation  of  the  siphon  in  opera- 
tion is  simple.  When  the  tube  is  filled  with  liquid  the  upward 
atmospheric  pressure  is  equal  at  the  ends B  and  (\  fig.  23.)  But 
this  upward  pressure  is  diminished  in  the  long  arm  by  the  weight 
of  the  liquid  column  A  B,and  in  the  short  arm  by  the  weight  of  the 
column  A  < '.  Evidently  there  will  be  a  lower  upward  pressure  at 
B  than  at  C;  hence  the  flow  is  started  from  C  toward  B;  and  if  the 
end  C  be  placed  beneath  the  surface  of  a  liquid,  the  flow  will  con- 
tinue as  long  as  C  is  immersed,  or  until  the  liquid  stands  at  the 
same  level  in  the  two  vessels. 


ATMOSPHERIC    PRESSURE.  3< 

be  made  of  much  practical  service  in  the  kitchen  and 
the  cook-room.  Liquids  may  be  drawn  off  in  a  clear 
condition  without  disturbing  bottom  sediment  (figure 
24),  or  top  scum  ( ligure  25).  Milk  may  be  taken 
from  the  setting  pans  without  disturbing  the  cream, 
by  inserting  the  tube  beneath  the  cream  layer. 


REVIEW. 

1.  At  what  height  will  the  atmospheric  pressure  at  the  sea 
level  sustain  a  column  of  water  ? 

2.  At  what  height  may  a  column  of  mercury  be  supported 
by  atmospheric  pressure  at  the  sea  level? 

3.  Explain  fully  how  the  atmospheric  pressure  per  square 
inch  may  be  determined. 

4.  At  what  height  may  a  mercurial  column  be  supported  by 
air  pressure  at  the  altitude  of  Salt  Lake  City  ? 

5.  Give  illustrations  of  the  atmospheric  pressure  on  the  body 
of  a  man  at  the  altitude  of  Salt  Lake  City  and  at  the  sea  level. 

6.  Sketch  apparatus  and  explain  a  demonstration  of  varying 
air  pressure  on  a  column  of  mercury. 

7.  What  is  a  barometer? 

8.  Name  the  principal  kinds  of  barometers  with  which  you 
are  acquainted. 

9.  Describe  and  explain  the  siphon  barometer. 

10.  Describe  and  explain  the  wheel  barometer. 

11.  Explain  the  operation  of  the  aneroid  barometer. 

12.  What  do  you  know  of  the  barometer  as  a  foreteller  of 
weather  changes? 

13.  What  do  you  know  of  the  so-called  storm  glass? 

14.  Explain  the  operation  of  the  common  syringe. 

15.  What  is  a  pump? 

16.  With  what  classes  of  water  pump3  are  you  acquainted? 

17.  Sketch  and  explain  the  lifting  pump. 

18.  The  force  pump. 

19.  State  the  theoretical  and  the  practical  working  distance  of 
lifting  pumps  at  Salt  Lake  City,  and  at  the  sea  level . 

20.  Sketch,  describe,  and  explain  the  pipette. 

21.  Explain  the  action  of  the  siphon. 


38  DOMESTIC    SCIENCE. 


CHAPTER  3. 

COMPOSITION    OF    THE    ATMOSPHERE. 

Constituents  of  the  Atmosphere. — Until  com- 
paratively recent  times,  the  atmosphere  was  supposed  to 
be  elementary  in  its  composition,  that  is,  composed  of 
but  one  simple  substance.  Now,  however,  it  is  known 
to  be  made  up  of  several  components,  the  most  plenti- 
ful ingredients  being  Nitrogen,  Oxygen,  Carbon 
Dioxide,  and  Watery  Vapor.  The  first  two,  namely, 
nitrogen  and  oxygen,  are  present  in  much  the  largest 
proportions,  there  being  about  four-fifths  or  80  per 
cent,  nitrogen  and  one-fifth  or  20  per  cent,  oxygen. 
The  carbon  dioxide  and  the  watery  vapor  are  present 
in  very  small  and  variable  quantities.  In  its  condition 
of  ordinary  purity,  the  air  contains  about  one  cubic  inch 
of   carbon  dioxide  per  cubic  foot. 

It  has  been  calculated  that  if  the  atmosphere  could 
be  compressed  to  a  total  depth  of  five  miles,  the  vapor 
of  water  being  condensed  to  the  liquid  form,  and  the 
atmospheric  constituents  being  arranged  in  separate 
strata,  the  relative  amounts  would  be  shown  as  fol- 
lows :  The  water  would  form  a  sheet  over  the  earth 
about  five  inches  deep,  above  this  would  be  a  layer 
of  carbon  dioxide  thirteen  feet  in  depth,  then  a  stratum 
of  oxygen   nearly  one   mile   deep,  and   lastly,  one   of 


COMPOSITION  OF  A1K. 


39 


nitrogen  four  miles  in  thickness.  Such  an  illustration 
is  intended  for  comparison  only  ;  the  constituents  of 
the  air  are  not  so  separated  ;  on  the  contrary,  there  is 
a  most  intimate  mixture  of  all,  the  heavy  and  the 
light  ingredients  being  mingled  at  the  surface  in  prac- 
tically the  same  way  as  at  the  greatest  heights. 

Diffusion  Of  Gases. — This  perfect  mixing  is 
brought  about  by  the  operation  of  that  wonderful  law 
of  nature,  called  by  man  the  "Law  of  the  diffusion  of 
gases."     To  illustrate,  we  may  perform  the  following 


experiment 


Let  us  take  two  large  bottles  placed 
mouth  to  mouth,  (as  in  figure  26),  the 
upper  one  containing  a  very  light  gas, 
dry  hydrogen  for  instance,  and  the 
lower  one  a  comparatively  heavy  gas, 
ordinary  air  will  answer.  In  a  very 
short  time,  part  of  the  heavy  gas  will 
have  risen  into  the   upper  bottle,  and  a 

U  portion  of  the  light   gas  will  have  sunk 

into    the    vessel   below,    and  the    two 
i  will   be    uniformly    mixed.        We    can 

IJh^-s:  easily  determine  that  the  air  and  the 
hydrogen  have  become  mixed,  by  separat- 
ing the  bottles  and  applying  a  flame  to 
the  mouth  of  each  ;  an  explosion  occurs. 
Neither  pure  hydrogen  nor  air  is  explosive  of  itself, 
but  a  mixture  of  air  and  hydrogen  explodes  with  vigor 
when  a  flame  is  applied.  Now,  air  is  about  14  */2  times 
heavier  than  hydrogen ;  yet  the  tendency  toward 
diffusion  is  so  strong  that  the  heavy   air   rises  and  the 


40 


DOMESTIC     SCIENCE. 


light   hydrogen    sinks    till    a   perfect   intermixture   is 
effected. 
Uniformity  of  Atmospheric  Composition. — 

By  such  a  process  of  diffusion,  the  composition 
of  our  atmosphere  is  rendered  practically  uniform 
throughout.  Air  has  been  analyzed  from  mines  and 
deep  valleys,  as  well  as  from  mountain  tops ;  from 
above  the  sea  as  well  as  from  the  land  surface,  and 
from  the  upper  deeps  of  the  atmospheric  ocean  as 
reached  by  balloon  ascents ;  yet  the  only  differences 
thus  far  discovered  are  such  as  are  due  to  accidental 
contamination  ;  the  proportions  of  the  essential  in- 
gredients being  practically  constant  in  all  cases. 

We  should  learn  something  regarding  the  individual 
characteristics  of  each  of  the  principal  ingredients  of 
the  atmosphere. 

Nitrogen ;  its   Preparation. —  Nitrogen  is  the 

substance   present  in   greatest    quantity.        This   is   a 

colorless  gas,  without 
appreciable  taste  or 
odor.  It  may  be  pre- 
pared in  a  compara- 
tively pure  state  by  re- 
moving the  oxygen  of 
the  air,  and  this  can 
be  done  through  com- 
bustion. Provide  any 
convenient  stand,  as 
shown  in  illustration, 
(figure  27).  This  must  be  set  in  a  bowl  of  water, 
so  as  to  project  several  inches  above  the  water  surface. 


Fig.   27. 
'reparation  of  nitrogen. 


COMPOSITION  OF  AIR.  41 

Place  on  the  top  of  the  stand  a  bit  of  phosphorus* 
about  the  size  of  a  No.  3  shot.  Light  the  phosphorus 
by  touching  it  with  a  heated  wire,  and  then  quickly 
invert  over  it  a  large  wide -mouth  bottle,  which  is,  of 
course,  filled  with  air.  Lower  the  bottle  over  the 
burning  phosphorus  so  as  to  keep  the  mouth  of  the 
vessel  sealed  by  the  water.  Dense  white  clouds  appear 
in  the  bottle ;  these  consist  in  reality  of  a  fine 
white  powder,  formed  by  the  union  of  the  burning 
phosphorus  with  the  oxygen  of  the  air  within  the  jar. 
After  a  short  time,  this  powder  dissolves  in  the  water, 
and  the  bottle  is  found  to  contain  about  one-fifth  of 
lU.full  capacity  of  water,  which  has  risen  from  below ; 
the  remaining  four -fifths  are  occupied  by  a  colorless 
gas  ;  proper  tests  will  prove  this  to  be  nitrogen. 

Relative  Amounts  of  Oxygen  and  Nitrogen  in 
the  Air. — The  fact  that  the  bottle  becomes  about  one- 
fifth  full  of  water  is  significant.  As  the  burning 
phosphorus  removed  the  oxygen  of  the  inclosed  air  by 
uniting  with  it  to  form  phosphoric  acid,  which  was  dis- 
solved in  the  water,  evidently  the  space  formerly 
occupied  by  the  oxygen  would  be  left  unfilled,  unless 
the  water  passed  in.  As  one -fifth  of  the  space 
originally  occupied  by  the  air  is  found  filled  with  water, 


*  Phosphorus  should  be  used  only  by  those  who  have  some 
knowledge  of  its  properties.  It  is  intensely  poisonous  and  very 
readily  inflammable.  In  fact,  it  must  be  kept  always  under  water, 
and  even  while  being  handled  it  must  be  covered  with  water  to 
prevent  its  taking  fire.  The  fumes  of  burning  phosphorus  are 
very  injurious,  and  phosphorus  burns  in  the  flesh  are  deep  and 
painful. 


42  DOMESTIC    SCIENCE. 

it  is  clear  that  one -fifth  of  the  original  substance  has 
been  removed ;  and  this  amount  must  have  been  the 
oxygen.  The  remaining  gas,  four-fifths  in  amount, 
is  nitrogen.  When  the  contents  of  the  bottle  have 
become  entirely  clear,  we  may  place  a  plate  of  glass 
under  the  mouth  of  the  vessel,  remove  from  the  bowl, 
and  invert. 

Some  Properties  of  Nitrogen. — if  now  a  burning 

taper  or  a  flaming  splinter  be  introduced  into  the  bottle, 
the  flame  will  be  immediately  extinguished,  thus  prov- 
ing the  inability  of  nitrogen  to  support  combustion. 
A  further  experiment  has  been  performed,  but  we  need 
not  repeat  it ;  it  is  cruel,  though  it  embodies  a  lesson. 
If  a  small  animal,  a  mouse,  for  instance,  be  placed  in  a 
bottle  of  nitrogen,  the  little  creature  quickly  dies  with 
all  evidences  of  suffocation.  Nitrogen,  then,  is  a 
passive,  inert  gas,  incapable  of  supporting  combustion 
or  of  sustaining  life.  Its  chief  value  as  an  ingredient 
of  the  atmosphere  seems  to  be  that  of  a  dilutent  for  the 
more  vigorous  oxygen  associated  with  it. 

Preparation  of  Oxygen. — Oxygen,   the  second 

ingredient  of  the  atmosphere  in  point  of  abund- 
ance, is  not  so  easily  prepared  in  a  state  of 
purity.  The  removal  of  the  nitrogen  of  the  air,  so  as 
to  leave  the  oxygen  in  a  pure  state,  is  almost  an  im- 
possibility. But  other  methods  of  obtaining  the  gas 
may  be  employed : — Make  an  intimate  mixture  of 
potassium  chlorate  and  manganese  dioxide ;  place  the 
same  in  a  flask  A,  provided  with  a  delivery  tube  C,  and  a 


COMPOSITION    OF    AIR, 


43 


collecting  bottle  B,  connected  with  a  pneumatic  trough,* 
as  shown  in  figure  28. 


Fig.  28.. 
Preparing  Oxygen, 

Now  apply  heat  to  the  flask.  Soon  a  gas  is  delivered 
through  the  tube  with  considerable  rapidity  ;  this  gas 
is  oxygen. 

Some  Properties  of  Oxygen. — If  a  lighted  taper 
or  splinter  be  introduced  into  the  oxygen,  the  flame  is 
greatly  increased  in  brilliancy.  A  bit  of  phosphorus, 
when  lighted  and  introduced  into  oxygen,  burns  with 
blinding  brightness.  A  piece  of  steel  wire  may  be  made 
to  burn  in  this  gas  as  easily  as  a  shaving  of  wood.  In 
demonstrating  the  combustion  of  metallic  wire,  a  bit  of 
wood  is  to  be  first  fastened  to  the  wire  and  lighted  ; 
the  wire  then  takes  fire  from  the  wood.  An  animal 
placed  in  pure  oxygen  gives  signs  of  feverish  exhilara- 


*  A  vessel  to  be  used  in  collecting  gases  as  is  the  bowl  in  figure 
3  and  in  figure  27,  is  called  a. pneumatic  trough.  It  may  consist  of  any 
convenient  vessel  for  holding  water,  having  a  shelf  or  blocks  for 
the  support  of  the  receiving  vessel,  which  is  to  be  inverted  over 
the  end  of  the  delivery  pipe. 


44  DOMESTIC    SCIENCE. 

tion,  and  if  compelled  to  breathe  the  gas  for  any  great 
length  of  time  the  creature  dies  of  excessive  excitement. 

Oxygen  and  Nitrogen  Compared. — A  greater 

chemical  contrast  could  scarcely  be  found  than  that 
which  exists  between  inert  nitrogen  and  active  oxygen. 
If  the  oxygen  were  taken  from  the  air,  men  and 
animals  would  speedily  die  of  suffocation ;  if  the  air 
consisted  of  pure  oxygen  the  tissues  of  our  bodies 
would  soon  be  worn  out,  and  death  would  result  from 
the  unnatural  energy  of  the  vital  processes.  In  an 
atmosphere  of  undiluted  oxygen,  a  combustion  once 
started  would  soon  become  universal :  the  metal  of 
our  fire-places  would  burn  with  the  fuel,  and  nothing 
would  escape  the  general  conflagration  but  that  which 
had  already  been  burned.  The  fact  that  combustion 
is  possible  in  the  air,  points  to  the  presence  of  oxygen  ; 
the  additional  fact  that  such  combustion  is  far  less 
energetic  than  in  pure  oxygen,  suggests  the  presence  of 
a  diluting  ingredient,  such  as  nitrogen. 

Carbon    Dioxide — Mode    of     Preparation.— 

Carbon  dioxide  is  itself  a  compound  substance,  consist- 
ing of  the  elements  carbon  and  oxygen.  It  may  be  pre- 
pared for  study  by  pouring  a  strong  acid  on  marble, or 
on  sodium  carbonate,  and  catching  the  escaping  gas.  A 
bottle  is  to  be  provided  with  a  doubly  perforated  cork, 
carrying  a  funnel  tube  and  a  delivery  pipe  arranged  as 
in  figure  29.  In  the  bottle  a  tablespoonful  of  marble 
dust,  or  better  still,  the  same  quantity  of  baking  soda, 
is  to  be  placed.  A  little  dilute  muriatic  acid  is  to  be 
poured  through  the   funnel  tube  upon  the  marble  dust 


COMPOSITION    OF    AIR. 


45 


or  soda.      A  gas   is  given  off   with  vigor,  and  may    be 
collected  as  was  the  oxygen,  over  the  pneumatic  trough. 


Fig.  29. 
Preparation  of  carbon  dioxide. 

Some  Properties    of    Carbon    Dioxide — if  a 

lighted  taper  be  intro- 
duced into  a  vessel  con- 
taining carbon  dioxide, 
the  flame  is  extinguished 
as  speedily  as  if  plunged 
into  water.  A  living 
animal  placed  in  the  gas 
dies  very  speedily  after  a 
few  ineffectual  gasps  for 
relief.  This  carbon  dioxide 
is  considerably  heavier 
than  air.  The  gas  may 
be  poured  from  one  vessel 
to  another,  as  shown  in 
figure  30.  It  may  be 
dipped  bv  a   small  vessel 

Fig.  30. 

p..uring   carbon  dioxide.         from     a    larger     one    as 


46 


DOMESTIC    SCIENCE. 


readily  as  water.  Owing  to  its  great  weight,  the 
gas  may  be  collected,  as  illustrated  in  figure  29,  by 
displacement  instead  of  over  water.  The  delivery  tube 
in  such  a  case  is  to  be  passed  to  the  bottom  of  the 
collecting  bottle.  A  lighted  candle  held  at  the  mouth 
will  be  extinguished  as  soon  as  the  vessel  is  filled.  If 
we  continue  to  pass  the  gas  into  a  vessel  after  the  latter 
has  become  full,  the  gas  will  run  over  as  water  would 

do  under  similar  circum- 
stances. True,  the  sub- 
stance is  transparent  and 
colorless,  and  therefore 
entirely  invisible,  but  a 
candle  flame  held  alongside 
the  receiving  vessel  will 
reveal  the  overflow  (see 
figure  31). 

Carbon  Dioxide  from 
Fermentation.  —    The 

writer  once  visited  a  large 
vinegar  factory  in  the  State  of  Maryland.  The  vats  in 
which  the  mash  was  placed  to  ferment  were  each  as  large 
as  a  sitting  room.  These  vats  were  only  half  filled  with 
mash,  the  upper  space  being  left  for  the  gathering  of 
the  carbon  dioxide  which  is  given  off  in  the  process  of 
fermentation.  On  the  occasion  of  the  visit  referred  to, 
a  double  quantity  of  mash  had  by  mistake  been 
pumped  into  one  of  the  large  vessels.  There  was,  of 
course,  no  room  for  the  carbon  dioxide  to  collect,  and 
it  ran  over  the  sides  of  the  vat  as  fast  as  produced. 
Several  workmen   who  were  engaged   in  repairing  the 


Fig.  31. 
Carbon  dioxide  overflowin 


COMPOSITION    OF    AIR.  4  7 

floor  around  this  particular  vat  were  quickly  enveloped 
in  the  suffocating  gas,  and  died  before  assistance  could 
be  rendered. 

Tests  for  Carbon  Dioxide.— its  power  of  ex- 
tinguishing a  flame  is  a  usual  method  for  determin- 
ing the  presence  of  carbon  dioxide ;  but  it  will  be 
remembered  that  nitrogen  possesses  the  same  property. 
A  more  reliable  test  may  be  made  as  follows  : — Prepare 
a  little  clear  lime  water,  by  adding  water  to  good  lime 
and  afterward  filtering.  Pour  a  little  of  this  into  a 
bottle  containing  carbon  dioxide ;  then  shake.  The 
lime  water  becomes  at  once  milky  from  the  formation 
of  insoluble  lime  carbonate,  resulting  from  a  union 
of  the  lime  and  the  carbon  dioxide.  By  exposing  a 
dish  of  lime  water  to  the  atmosphere,  with  occasional 
shaking,  after  a  time  a  turbid  appearance  is  produced, 
indicating  the  presence  of  carbon  dioxide,  which  must 
have  existed  in  the  air. 

Watery  Vapor  in  the  Air. — The  existence  of 
vapor  of  water  in  the  atmosphere  is  a  fact  scarcely  to 
be  wondered  at.  If  a  vessel  of  water  be  exposed  freely 
to  the  air,  after  a  short  time  the  liquid  is  found  to 
have  disappeared.  The  particles  of  water  have  not 
been  destroyed.  They  have,  in  fact,  been  lifted  into 
the  air  by  the  process  of  evaporation,  and  there  they 
float  as  freely  as  the  other  constituents  of  the  atmos- 
phere. A  very  simple  proceeding  will  prove  the  pres- 
ence of  watery  vapor  in  the  air  about  us. 

Provide  a  glass  of  ice  water  for  observation.  See 
that  the  outside  of  the  vessel  is  perfectly  dry.  Set  the 
glass  in  a  warm  room,  and  observe.     In  a  short  time 


48  DOMESTIC    SCIENCE. 

the  outside  of  the  glass  becomes  covered  with  drops  of 
liquid  looking  not  unlike  dew.  This  moisture  must 
have  come  from  the  atmosphere  of  the  room.  Under 
all  circumstances  water  can  be  condensed  from  the 
atmosphere  if  the  temperature  be  sufficiently  lowered. 

Capacity  of  Air  for  Moisture  ;  Saturation. — 

— The  quantity  of  moisture  which  the  air  can  absorb 
and    hold   in    suspension    depends    largely    upon    the 
temperature.     Warm  air  has  a  much  greater  capacity 
for  moisture   than   has  cold   air ;   and   the   process   of 
cooling  the  air  results  in   the   deposition  of  much'  of 
the   water  which  it  held.       When  the  air  contains  all 
the  moisture  it  is  capable  of  holding  at  any  given  tem- 
perature, it  is  said   to  be   saturated.       At  the  freezing 
point  of  temperature,  (32°  F.)  the  air  is  saturated  with 
moisture  when  it   contains    2.3   grains  of   water  to  the 
cubic  foot.     At  60°  F.  a  cubic  foot  of  air  will  hold  5.8 
grains  of  moisture  ;   at  90°  F.  it  will  hold  14.3  grains  ; 
and  at  100°  F.  it  may   contain    19.1   grains.    -  In  the 
cold  season,  therefore,   the  air   may   appear   moist  be- 
cause it  is  near  its  saturation  point,  though  in  reality  it 
contains  at  such  time  much  less   moisture  than  under 
conditions  of  greater   warmth.     Evidently   the  drying 
power  of  the  atmosphere  will  depend  upon  its  capacity 
to  take  up  more  moisture  than  it  already  holds.      It  is 
customary  to  express  the  drying  power  of  the  atmos- 
phere in  degrees,   the  determination   being  made  by 
finding  the  difference  between  the  temperature  of  the 
air  and  the  dew  point. 

Air  Overcharged  with  Moisture. — When  under 

any    circumstances     the     air    becomes    charged    with 


COMPOSITION    OF    AIR.  49 

moisture  beyond  its  point  of  saturation,  some  form  of 
precipitation  is  the  result.  The  deposit  may  occur  in 
the  form  of  dew.  or,  if  larger  quantities  of  water  are 
condensed  at  the  time,  as  by  a  sudden  cooling  of  a 
heavily  laden  cloud,  the  fall  may  be  one  of  rain,  snow, 
or  hail,  as  the  temperature  may  determine. 

Summary. — Let  it  be  remembered  then  that  the 
air  contains  four  essential,  constant  ingredients: — 
nitrogen,  oxygen,,  carbon  dioxide,  and  vapor  of  water ; 
and  beside  these,  several  other  accidental  constituents, 
such  as  gaseous  emanations  from  decaying  matter,  the 
volatile  materials  of  fuel,  the  aroma  of  flowers,  and 
the  like.  The  nitrogen  and  the  oxygen  form  the  bulk 
of  the  atmosphere.  These  are  present  in  the  propor- 
tions here  shown  : — 

BY  WEIGHT.  BY    VOLUME. 

Oxygen  23.1  per  cent.  20.9  per  cent. 

Nitrogen        76.9    "      "  79.1      "       " 


100.  100. 

The  average  quantity  of  water  present  in  the  at- 
mosphere is  perhaps  nearly  1  per  cent,  and  that  of 
carbon   dioxide  is   about  1/oooo  of  the  air  by   weight. 


REVIEW. 

1.  What  is  a  chemical  element? 

2.  Name  the  substances  present  in  the  atmosphere. 

3.  State  the  relative  amounts  of  these  ingredients  present  in 
the  atmosphere. 

4.  Explain  the  law  of  the  diffusion  of  gases. 


50  DOMESTIC    SCIENCE. 

5.  Show  the  operation  of  this  law  upon  the  atmosphere. 

6.  How  would  you  separate  nitrogen  from  the  other  atmos- 
pheric ingredients? 

7.  Describe  the  principal  physical  properties  of  nitrogen. 

8.  Describe  the  chief  chemical  properties  of  nitrogen, 

9.  How  would  you  prepare  oxygen  for  experimental  pur- 
poses?   Sketch  the  apparatus  you  would  employ. 

10.  Describe  a  series  of  demonstrations  of  the  power  of  oxygen 
in  supporting  combustion . 

11.  Compare  oxygen  and  nitrogen  as  to  their  chemical  prop- 
erties. 

12.  What  is  a  chemical  compound? 

13.  How  would  you  prepare  carbon  dioxide  for  experimental 
purposes? 

14.  How  would  you  demonstrate  that  carbon  dioxide  is  heavier 
than  air? 

15.  Describe   the  principal    chemical    properties    of    carbon 
dioxide. 

16.  Describe  a   chemical  test   for   the  presence    of     carbon 
dioxide. 

17.  Demonstrate  the  existence  of  watery  vapor  in  the  atmos- 
phere. 

18.  Show  the  effect  of  varying  temperature  on  the  capacity  of 
the  atmosphere  to  hold  moisture. 

19.  What  is  meant  by  the  air  being  saturated  with  moisture? 

20.  Explain  dew  point. 

21.  Explain  the  drying  power  of  the  atmosphere. 


PERMANENCY    OF    THE    ATMOSPHERE.  51 


CHAPTER  4. 

PERMANENCY  OF    THE  ATMOSPHERE. 

Conditions  of  Change  in  Atmospheric  Con- 
stituents.— The  uniform  and  constant  composition 
of  the  atmosphere  appears  all  the  more  remarkable, 
when  we  consider  the  many  influences  of  change  to 
which  most  of  the  ingredients  are  subject.  As  has 
been  already  seen,  the  nitrogen  of  the  air  is  an  inert 
constituent ;  though  mixed  with  other  substances,  it 
takes  no  part  in  the  transformations  which  they  so 
readily  undergo.  Air  is  taken  into  the  lungs  of  men 
and  animals,  and  though  the  oxygen  is  there  ex- 
changed for  carbon  dioxide,  the  nitrogen  passes  out 
again  in  an  unchanged  state.  In  all  fires,  oxygen 
combines  with  the  fuel,  and  thus  adds  to  the  energy 
of  the  blaze,  but  the  nitrogen  remains  still  passive  and 
free.  The  oxygen  and  the  carbon  dioxide,  however, 
are  continually  undergoing  change  by  an  endless  series 
of  rapid  combinations  and  decompositions.  Let  us, 
then,  turn  our  attention  to  these. 

Effect  of  Respiration  on  Air  Composition.— 

In  breathing,  men  and  animals  inhale  by  drawing  a 
portion  of  air  into  the  lungs  ;  and  after  an  interval, 
they  exhale  or  expel  about  the  same  quantity  of  gase- 
ous matter,  though  of  a  composition  far  different  from 
that    taken    in.       Expired   air    contains    more  carbon 


52 


DOMESTIC    SCIENCE. 


dioxide,  and  a  far  lower  proportion  of  free  oxygen 
than  does  air  before  respiration.  Blow  through  a 
small  tube,  a  straw  will  answer  well,  into  a  vessel  of 
clear  lime  water :  the  milky  appearance  (see  chapter 
3, — carbon  dioxide)  indicates  the  presence  of  carbon 
dioxide  in  the  breath.  This  is  true  of  the  breath  of 
animals  as  well  as  of  human  beings.  When  we  strive 
to  think  of  the  number  of  living  beings  constantly 
breathing,  and  thus  removing  oxygen  from  the  air  and 
supplying  carbon  dioxide  thereto,  the  causes  of  the 
permanency  of  the  atmosphere  become  still  more  per- 
plexing. 

Oxygen  Supplied  to  the  Air. — it  would  seem  to 

us  at  first  thought,  that  after  a  time  all  the  oxygen  of 
the  air  would  be  consumed,  and  in  its  place  would  be 
a  superabundance  of  the  deadly  carbon  dioxide.  Be- 
side the  respiration  of  animal  bodies,  there  are   many 

other  causes  by  which 
atmospheric  oxygen  is 
consumed  and  carbon 
dioxide  produced  ;  such 
as  the  combustions  in 
lights  and  fires,  the  de- 
cay of  organic  matter, 
and  all  common  pro- 
cesses   of     fermentation. 

Leaves  exhaling  oxygen.  jn    gome    portions  of   the 

earth,  vast  volumes  of  carbon  dioxide  are  thrown  into 
the  air  from  volcanic  fissures  and  rents,  from  car- 
bonated mineral  springs,  and  the  like.  It  is  calculated 
that    over    300,000,000    tons    of    coal    are    annually 


PERMANENCY    OF    THE    ATMOSPHERE.  53 

burned  in  the  world  under  present  conditions. 
This  alone  would  produce  upward  of  800,000,000  tons 
of  carbon  dioxide  gas.  A  century  ago  but  an  in- 
significant fraction  of  this  amount  was  consumed ; 
yet  the  composition  of  the  atmosphere  seems  not  to 
have  been  altered  by  this  immense  supply.  There 
must  be  some  powerful  influences  in  operation, 
through  which  oxygen  is  restored  to  the  air  and 
carbon  dioxide  abstracted  therefrom.  An  experiment 
on  this  subject  was  made  in  1774  by  Dr.  Priestly,  an 
English  chemist,  and  it  has  been  repeatedly  verified 
since  that  time.  Each  of  us  may  make  the  demon- 
stration his  own  by  proceeding  as  follows  (see  figure 
32)  :  Place  a  sprig  of  green  leaves,  freshly  plucked, 
in  a  bell  jar  or  large  bottle,  and  fill  the  vessel  so  as  to 
cover  the  leaves  with  water  that  has  been  charged  with 
carbon  dioxide.  Then  invert  the  bottle  in  a  larger 
vessel  of  water,  place  the  whole  in  direct  sunlight, 
and  watch  results.  Very  soon,  bubbles  of  gas  are 
seen  rising  from  the  leafy  surfaces  ;  and  these  bubbles, 
being  lighter  than  the  water,  collect  at  the  top  of  the 
bottle,  the  heavier  liquid  sinking  to  give  them  space. 
When  a  sufficient  quantity  of  gas  has  been  collected, 
place  a  piece  of  glass  beneath  the  mouth  of  the  bottle, 
and  set  the  vessel  right  side  up.  Now  introduce  a 
lighted  candle  or  splinter  into  the  gas  ;  the  increased 
brilliancy  of  the  flame  declares  the  substance  to  be  oxy- 
gen. The  carbon  dioxide  with  which  the  water  was  or- 
iginally charged  has  disappeared  in  the  process.  It  is 
therefore  clear  to  us,  that,  under  the  influence  of  sun- 


54  DOMESTIC    SCIENCE. 

light  the  leaves  have  absorbed  the  carbon  dioxide,  and 
have  exhaled  oxygen  in  its  place. 
Carbon    Dioxide    Removed    from    Air    by 

Plants. — If  compelled  to  re-breathe  their  own  ex- 
halations, animals  would  soon  die  for  want  of  oxygen  ; 
yet  the  foulest  emanations  of  animals'  lungs,  the 
suffocating  carbon  dioxide,  forms  the  chief  support  of 
the  plant.  Under  the  influence  of  sunlight,  the  green 
leaves  of  plants,  through  their  multitudes  of  tiny 
pores,  draw  in  the  carbon  dioxide  from  the  at- 
mosphere, and  exhale  the  life-giving  oxygen.  Says 
Professor  Johnson,  "On  a  single  square  inch  of  the 
leaf  of  the  common  lilac  as  many  as  120,000  breath- 
ing pores  have  been  counted ;  and  the  rapidity  with 
which  they  act  is  so  great  that  a  current  of  air  passing 
over  the  leaves  of  an  actively  growing  plant  is  almost 
immediately  deprived  of  the  carbonic  acid  it  contains." 
And  again,  "A  common  lilac  tree,  with  a  million  of 
leaves,  has  about  four  hundred  thousand  millions  of 
pores  or  mouths  at  work,  sucking  in  carbonic  acid  ; 
and  on  a  single  oak-tree  as  many  as  seven  millions  of 
leaves  have  been  counted." 
Chlorophyle-bearing>    Plants;     Fungi. — This 

power  of  the  leaves  is  exerted  only  under  the  in- 
fluence of  sunlight,  direct  or  diffused.  The  active 
principle  of  the  leaf,  by  which  the  decomposition  of 
carbon  dioxide  is  effected,  is  technically  known  as 
chlorophyle,  a  word  meaning  "leaf-green,"  and  so 
used  because  the  substance  is  usually  of  a  green  color, 
and  by  its  presence  imparts  the  prevailing  hue  to 
foliage.     The  word  scarcely  expresses  the  whole  nature 


PERMANENCY    OF    THE    ATMOSPHERE.  55 

of  this  potent  compound,  for  in  the  case  of  multi- 
colored leaves,  as  for  example,  the  petals  of  flowers, 
the  varied  tints  are  apparently  imparted  by  a  substance 
identical  in  most  respects  other  than  color  with  the 
chlorophy4e  of  green  leaves.  Plants  that  contain  no 
chlorophyle,  (fungi),  such  as  the  mushroom,  toad- 
stool, and  the  like,  exhibit  none  of  the  colors  of  the 
higher  plants,  and  they  flourish  when  entirely  deprived 
of  light.  Such  plants  do  not  decompose  the  carbon 
dioxide  of  the  atmosphere,  but  they  exhale  this  gas, 
and  consume  oxygen  as  do  animals. 

House  Plants. — Chlorophyle-bearing  plants,  when 
deprived  of  light  act  somewhat  similarly  to  the  fungi, 
thus  rather  vitiating  than  purifying  the  air.  In  the 
open  air,  the  carbon  dioxide  evolved  during  the 
hours  of  darkness  by  growing  plants  has  but  slight 
effect  upon  the  purity  of  the  atmosphere ;  but 
in  closed  spaces,  as  the  rooms  of  houses,  the  result  is 
different ;  and  therefore  it  is  considered  injurious  to 
sleep  in  rooms  containing  growing  house -plants. 
Though  during  the  bright  hours,  these  beautiful 
growths  are  alike  pleasing  in  their  effects  upon  the 
mind  and  body,  in  darkness  they  tend,  however 
slightly,  to  increase  the  contamination  which  is  so 
constant  a  feature  of  animal  and  human  existence. 

Agency  of  Plants  in  Drying  the  Soil.— in 
marshy  districts,  growing  plants  exert  another  in- 
fluence of  great  benefit,  since  by  the  absorption  of 
water  through  their  roots  they  aid  in  drying  the  soil. 
The  sun-flower  and  the  eucalyptus  tree  have  been  used 


56  DOMESTIC    SCIENCE. 

in  experiments  of  the  kind  with  very  satisfactory 
results. 

Carbon  Stored  in  the  Earth. — if  we  have  read 

at  all  aright  concerning  the  past  history  of  our  earth, 
there  was  a  time  at  which  the  decomposition*  of  carbon 
dioxide  through  the  agency  of  plant  life  took  place  on 
a  scale  vastly  greater  than  that  of  the  present.  In 
that  period  of  the  earth's  growth  which  is  known  as 
the  Carboniferous  Age,  one  of  the  preparatory  stages 
through  which  the  earth  passed  before  it  was  fitted  for 
animal  life,  the  air  was  strongly  charged  with  carbon 
dioxide.  At  that  time,  however,  vegetation  flourished 
on  the  earth  with  a  luxuriance  far  beyond  any 
comprehension  based  on  present  circumstances.  In 
that  age  there  existed  extensive  forests  of  mammoth 
ferns,  gigantic  club-mosses,  and  huge  trees  of  many 
strange  growths.  All  lived  by  decomposing  the 
carbon  dioxide  of  the  air,  fixing  its  carbon,  and 
returning  its  oxygen  in  the  gaseous  state.  That  carbon 
has  ever  since  been  buried  deep  in  the  stony  fastnesses 
of  the  globe,  there  undergoing  change  until  converted 
into  coal.*  Of  the  importance  of  coal,  but  little  need 
be  said.  Without  it,  the  world  could  not  be  what  it  is 
today.  Now,  by  burning  the  coal,  its  carbon  unites 
once  more  with  oxygen  to  form  carbon  dioxide,  and 
thus  the  air  receives  again  the  substances  taken  from  it 
through  the  subtle  agency  of  plant  life  ages  ago. 


*Read  chapter  id,  "A  Talk  about  Coal,"   in  the  author's  "First 
Book  of  Nature." 


PERMANENCY    OF    THE    ATMOSPHERE.  57 

Carbon  Dioxide  Removed  by  Certain  Animals. 

— But  lest  the  carbon  dioxide  should  become  too  plen- 
tiful for  animal  welfare,  the  Creator  has  wisely  directed 
other  influences  to  operate  in  again  removing  this  in- 
gredient of  the  atmosphere  as  fast  as  it  is  produced. 
Go  walk  upon  the  sea  beach,  and  there  watch  the  mol- 
lusks,  great  and  small — shell  fish  as  we  usually  term 
them — living  in  such  profusion  ;  observe  them  care- 
fully, and  see  what  they  are  about.  The  stone-like 
shell  forming  the  creature's  home,  consists  principally 
of  calcium  carbonate  :  and  of  this  substance  two -fifths, 
or  forty  per  cent.,  is  carbon  dioxide.  Then  let  us  sail 
into  warmer  climes,  and  there  observe  the  myriads  of 
coral  polyps  so  successfully  fighting  the  battle  of  life 
with  the  angry  breakers  of  their  ocean  home.  The 
substance  that  we  ordinarily  call  coral  is  indeed  no- 
thing but  the  shell  in  which  the  tiny  creatures  lived ; 
and  this  shell  is  composed  mainly  of  calcium  carbon- 
ate taken  from  the  waters,  and  containing  the  propor- 
tion of  carbon  dioxide  already  named.  The  beauti- 
ful marbles  which  man  .ever  has  delighted  to  polish 
and  admire,  and  the  massive  limestone  pillars,  but- 
tresses of  the  mighty  hills — are  made  also  of  calcium 
carbonate,  holding  its  proportion  of  carbon  dioxide 
imprisoned  by  the  powerful   bonds  of  chemical  force.* 

Mutual  Dependence  of  Animals  and  Plants. 

— Upon  such  a  plan  does  the  Creator  maintain  the 
equable  balance  of  the  elements.     Is  it  not  wonderful 


*  Read  chapter  40,  "  About  Limestones,"  in  the  "  First  Book  of 
Nature." 


58  DOMESTIC    SCIENCE. 

that  the  animal,  in  the  unconscious  exercise  of  its  own 
vital  processes,  contributes  to  the  support  of  the  hum- 
ble plant?  And  the  plant  is  not  unmindful  of  the  aid 
thus  received.  The  field  of  growing  corn,  while  pre- 
paring aliment  for  the  support  of  a  higher  life,  the 
rose  bush  perfecting  its  flowers  with  which  to  please 
the  eye,  adorn  the  home,  and  inspire  the  heart  of  man, 
the  vine  laboring  to  ripen  its  tempting  clusters,  each, 
all  are  purifying  the  atmosphere,  and  preserving  the 
equilibrium  without  which  animal  life  would  soon 
cease  to  exist  on  earth.  What,  then,  is  independent 
in  nature?  The  mighty  oak,  and  the  gay  squirrel 
which  finds  food  and  shelter  beneath  the  hospitable 
branches  of  the  tree,  are  mutually  dependent.  Neither 
the  animal  nor  the  plant  can  say  to  the  other,  "I  have 
no  need  of  thee."  Each  has  been  prepared  by  its  Cre- 
ator to  be  a  support  to  the  other.  Could  any  power 
possessing  aught  less  than  infinite  wisdom  have 
planned  and  executed  so  perfect,  so  admirable  a 
design  ? 


REVIEW. 

1.  What  do  you  know  of  the  changes  through  which  the 
atmospheric  constituents  are  constantly  passing? 

2.  Show  the  effect  of  animal  respiration  on  the  composition 
of  air. 

3.  How  is  the  supply  of  atmospheric  oxygen  maintained? 

4.  How  is  the  carbon  dioxide  prevented  from  becoming  ex- 
cessive in  the  atmosphere? 

5.  Describe  a  demonstration  of  the  effect  of  growing  plants 
yielding  oxygen  to  the  air. 


PERMANENCY    OF    THE    ATMOSPHERE.  59 

6.  What  do  you  know  of  the  number  of  breathing  pores  on 
leaves? 

7.  Define  "chlorophyle." 

8.  State  a  use  of  chlorophyle  in  plants. 

9.  Define  and  illustrate  "fungi." 

10.  What  is  your  opinion  'of  the  good  or  ill  effects  of  keeping 
growing  plants  in  living  rooms? 

11.  State  what  you  know  of  the  Carboniferous  Age. 

12.  Show  the  effect  of  corals  and  mollusks  in  removing  carbon 
dioxide  from  the  atmosphere. 

13.  What  do  you  know  of  marbles  and  limestones  as  holders  of 
carbon  dioxide? 

14.  Show  the  mutual  dependence  of  animal  and  plant  life. 


60  DOMESTIC    SCIENCE. 


CHAPTER  5. 


THE    AIR    OF    ROOMS. 


Air  Of  Closed  Rooms.  —  The  contaminating 
influences  to  which  the  atmosphere  is  subject  through 
human  and  animal  respiration,  have  been  already  re- 
ferred to.  The  atmosphere  of  closed  rooms  shows  the 
effects  of  such  influences  to  a  much  greater  extent  than 
does  the  open  air,  for  the  chief  reason  that  enclosed 
air  possesses  far  less  opportunity  of  purifying  itself. 
Combustion  of  lights  and  fires  within  the  room,  and 
the  respiration  of  the  inmates,  work  together  in  con- 
suming oxygen  and  producing  carbon  dioxide. 

Contamination  of  Air  by  Human  Beings. — 

But  this  is  not  the  only  change.  Large  quantities  of 
water,  in  the  form  of  vapor,  are  being  continually 
thrown  into  the  air,  from  the  lungs  and  the  skin  of 
living  beings.  That  this  is  true  of  the  lungs  may  be 
demonstrated  by  breathing  upon  any  cold  polished 
surface.  To  prove  that  the  same  statement  applies  to  the 
skin,  the  following  simple  experiment  may  be  made: 
Take  a  large  dry  bottle,  with  the  mouth  sufficiently 
wide  to  admit  your  hand.  See  that  the  hand  is  clean 
and  dry,  and  introduce  it  into  the  bottle;  then  wrap 
a  cloth  around  the  wrist  to  seal  the  mouth.  After  a 
short  time,  the  inside  of  the  bottle  becomes  dimmed 
with  moisture,  which  increases  till  it  gathers  in  drops 


THE    AIR    OF    ROOMS.  61 

and  trickles  down  the  sides  of  the  vessel.  The  skin 
over  the  whole  body  is  pierced  with  innumerable  tiny 
openings,  through  which  vapor  is  continually  escaping, 
unless  these  pores  have  become  closed  through  un- 
cleanliness  or  disease.  As  a  result  of  numerous 
experiments,  it  is  believed  that  the  quantity  of  fluid 
matter  escaping  in  one  day  from  the  skin  of  an  adult 
person,  is  not  less  than  from  two  to  three  pounds.* 
Foul    Matter   from    Exhalation.  —  But  this 

liquid  excretion  from  the  skin  and  the  lungs  is  not 
pure  water ;  it  is  indeed  strongly  charged  with  the 
products  of  animal  decay.  By  way  of  proof  as  to  the 
impure  nature  of  the  liquid  matters  in  the  breath, 
proceed  in  this  way  :  Take  a  clean  dry  bottle,  having  a 
wide  neck  :  hold  it  before  your  mouth,  and  breathe 
into  it  for  some  time.  Then  close  it  tightly,  and  set 
it  in  a  warm  place  for  an  hour  or  so  ;  after  this,  re- 
move the  stopper,  and  apply  the  nose  with  critical 
care.  A  foetid  odor  will  be  experienced  ;  most  prob- 
ably of  a  convincing  strength.! 


*Dr.  Faraday,  of  well  merited  fame,  said  upon  this  subject: 
— "I  think  an  individual  may  find  a  decided  difference  in  his 
feelings  when  making  part  of  a  large  company,  from  what  he  does 
when  one  of  a  small  number  of  persons,  and  yet  the  thermometer 
may  give  the  same  indication.  When  I  am  one  of  a  large  number 
of  persons,  I  feel  an  oppressive  sensation  of  closeness,  notwith- 
standing the  temperature  may  be  about  60  degrees  or  65  degrees, 
which  I  do  not  feel  in  a  small  company  at  the  same  temperature, 
and  which  I  cannot  refer  altogether  to  the  absorption  of  oxygen, 
or  the  inhalation  of  carbonic  acid,  and  probably  depends  upon 
the  effluvia  from  the  many  present." 

t  Such  putrescible  matter  is  constantly  formed  in  the  air  of  in- 
habited rooms;  it  settles  upon  the  walls  and  furniture  and  its 
thorough  removal,  if  indeed  at  all  possible,  is  a  difficult  under- 


6  2  DOMESTIC    SCIENCE. 

A  few  years  ago,  an  experimenter  caused  a  num- 
ber of  persons  to  breathe  through  tubes  into  a  closed 
vessel  surrounded  with  ice,  by  which  means  the  vapor 
of  the  breath  was  condensed  in  considerable  quantity. 
Some  of  this  liquid  was  injected  into  the  blood  vessels 
of  dogs  and  other  animals.  The  process  was  followed 
in  almost  every  case  by  speedy  death  of  the  victims 
with  all  appearances  of  poisoning. 

Service  Rendered  by  the  Sense  of  Smell.— 

Though  the  organs  of  smell  are  of  wondrous  deli- 
cacy in  enabling  us  to  detect  the  presence  of  foul  or 
offensive  matters,  the  sense  may  be  easily  dulled,  so 
that  we  become  oblivious  to  the  most  disgusting 
odors.  Note  the  sickening  effect  which  one  experien- 
ces on  re-entering  a  close  bedroom,  after  having  been 
in  the  open  air  for  a  time,  though  perhaps  the  person 
may  have  occupied  that  room  during  the  entire  night 
in  complete  unconsciousness  of  its  foul  condition.  It 
is  proper  that  every  person  should  seek  to  preserve  the 
delicacy  of  each  of  his  senses.  No  power  of  sensation 
has  been  implanted  within  the  human  organism  with- 
out a  definite  use  and  purpose  for  the  benefit  of  the 
possessor.  It  is  probable  that  we  do  not  comprehend 
the  full  purpose  of  the  power  of  smell ;  yet  it  is  easy 
to  perceive  how  we  are  warned  against  inhaling  many 
poisonous     emanations,     through    their    disagreeable 


taking.  Upon  these  offensive  substances  those  natural  and 
necessary  scavengers,  the  greatly  abused  house-flies,  largely  feed, 
and  but  for  these  useful  little  creatures  we  would  be  in  a  still 
worse  plight. 


THE    AIR    OF    ROOMS.  63 

odors.  Though  there  are  some  gaseous  poisons  which 
are  utterly  devoid  of  odor,  nearly  all  foetid  and  dis- 
gusting smells  indicate  the  presence  of  poisonous 
matters.* 

Danger  from  Unclean  Surroundings.  — 
Many  serious  disorders  have  been  directly  traced  to  the 
•breathing  of  the  foul  gases  arising  from  decaying 
matters.  The  close  proximity  of  stables,  cow-houses, 
pig-pens,  and  the  like,  is  a  constant  menace  to  the  in- 
mates of  any  house  so  situated.  However,  contami- 
nation of  the  air  from  such  causes  may  surely  be 
detected  by  a  keen  sense  of  smell. t 

Foul  Emanations    in   Wet   Localities.  —  In 

wet  localities,  quantities  of  the  injurious  carburetted 
hydrogen  (marsh  gas)  originate  from  the  rotting 
matters  in  the  soil,  and  though  this  gas  is  itself  with- 


*The  delicacy  of  the  sense  of  smell  in  detecting  inconceivably 
small  particles  of  matter  diffused  through  the  air,  is  illustrated 
by  the  oft-quoted  statement  of  Dr.  Carpenter:— "A  grain  of  musk 
has  been  kept  freely  expose^!  to  the  air  of  a  room,  of  which  the 
doors  and  windows  were  constantly  open,  for  a  period  of  ten 
years,  during  all  which  time,  the  air  though  constantly  changed, 
was  completely  impregnated  with  the  odor  of  musk,  and  yet,  at 
the  end  of  that  time,  the  particle  was  found  not  to  have  sensibly 
diminished  in  weight." 

t"The  offensive  trades  mentioned  in  the  Public  Health  Act  of 
1875"  (England)  "  are  those  of  blood-boiler,  bone-boiler,  fell- 
monger,  soap-boiler,  tallow  melter,  tripe-boiler.  The  model 
byelaws  of  the  local  Government  Board  include  in  addition,  those 
of  blood- dry  er,leather- dresser,  tanner,  fat  melter  or  fat-  extractor, 
glue-maker,  size-maker,  and  gut  scraper,  as  being  trades  for 
which  regulation  by  sanitary  authority  is  desirable." — Parkes. 
These  occupations  are  all  attended  by  foul  odors,  and  such  pur- 
suits the  sanitary  authorities  of  England  have  found  it  advisable 
to  restrict. 


64  DOMESTIC    SCIENCE. 

out  odor,  yet  when  arising  from  such  source  it  is 
always  associated  with  ill  smelling  gases. 

In  such  localities,  too,  and  more  especially  in 
volcanic  regions,  and  in  the  vicinity  of  "  sulphur 
springs,"  the  air  is  rich  in  sulphuretted  hydrogen, 
sometimes  called  from  one  of  its  very  un -inviting 
sources,  "  rotten -egg  gas."  It  is  characterized  by  a 
most  disgusting  odor,  and  when  inhaled  even  in  small 
quantities  produces  severe  headaches,  nausea,  and 
general  prostration  ;  and  in  large  amounts  it  induces 
a  stupefying  effect,  which  may  terminate  fatally.  .  This 
substance  is  a  constituent  of  the  gases  of  sewers,  and 
sometimes  it  finds  its  way  into  dwellings  from  defect- 
ive drain  pipes  ;  there,  by  its  soothing  effect  upon  the 
inmates,  its  presence  is  to  their  senses  imperceptible, 
though  its  effects  are  positively  deadly. 

Carbon  Dioxide  Exhaled  by  Human  Being's. — 

Having  seen  that  contamination  of  air  in  our  dwell- 
ings is  constantly  taking  place,  it  is  of  interest  to 
inquire  as  to  the  rate  at  which  such  processes  are 
operating.  Many  attempts  have  been  made  to  deter- 
mine the  average  quantity  of  air  vitiated  by  the  res- 
piration of  a  single  person  during  a  specified  length  of 
time  ;  but  the  results  are  widely  different  owing  to 
to  the  varying  rapidity  of  the  breathing  act,  and  the 
absence  of  uniformity  in  lung  capacity.  We  may 
safely  say,  however,  as  the  result  of  numerous  and 
elaborate  experiments,  that  an  adult  person  of  average 
size  in  a  state  of  rest,  ordinarily  expires  0.6  cubic  foot 
carbon  dioxide  per  hour.  The  amount  of  this  gas 
naturally  present  in  the  outer  air  is  found  by  analysis 


THE    AIR    OF    ROOMS.  65 

to  be  about  0.04  per  cent.,  or  0.4  parts  per  thousand. 
From  the  experimental  labors  of  Dr.  Chaumont  and 
others,  we  learn  that  a  disagreeable  smell  is  perceptible 
in  the  air  of  rooms  as  soon  as  the  carbon  dioxide  has 
reached  0.06  per  cent.,  or  0.6  parts  per  thousand.* 
This  amount,  which  is  0.2  parts  per  thousand  above 
that  contained  iu  pure  air,  is  considered  by  reliable 
authorities  as  the  maximum  quantity  to  be  tolerated  in 
the  air  of  inhabited  rooms. 

Rate  of  Contamination  from  Human  Res- 
piration— Suppose  an  adult  person  to  be  confined 
in  an  air-tight  inclosure  containing  3000  cubic  feet  of 
space.  In  an  hour  he  would  give  to  the  inclosed  air 
0.6  cubic  foot  of  carbon  dioxide;  this  added  to  the 
amount  of  the  gas  present  in  pure  air  would  make  the 
total  quantity  1.8  cubic  feet,  thus: — 0.6+  (0.4  x  3  = 
1.2)=  1.8.  This  being  distributed  among  3000  cubic 
feet  would  represent  1.8-^3=0.6  cubic  foot  per  thou- 
sand, and  here  we  see  the  permissible  limit  is  exactly 
reached.  In  order  to  keep  the  air  within  this  limit  of 
impurity,  during  a  second  hour  3000  cubic  feet  of 
fresh  air  should  be  admitted  to  replace  the  contamin- 
ated air  of  the  chamber. 


*The  bad  smell  here  referred  to  is  not  due  to  the  carbon 
dioxide  itself,  this  being  an  odorless  gas,  but  arises  from  the  foul 
organic  matters  of  the  expired  air,  and  these  contaminating  in- 
gredients increase  in  proportion  to  the  carbon  dioxide.  As  no 
strictly  accurate  methods  of  determining  the  amount  of  such 
putrescible  substances  have  been  devised,  it  is  a  rule  with 
chemists  to  determine  the  carbon  dioxide  in  the  air  under  ex- 
amination, and  then  to  estimate  the  amount  of  organic  matter 
from  this  result. 


66  DOMESTIC    SCIENCE. 

Amount  of  Air  Required  for  Efficient  Ven- 
tilation.—From  such  deductions  as  the  fore- 
going, it  is  stated  by  many  authorities,  that  to  be 
properly  ventilated  a  dwelling  house  should  receive 
3000  cubic  feet  of  fresh  air  per  hour  for  each  of  its 
inmates.  This  amount  may  seem  excessive ;  yet  in 
determining  it,  no  allowance  has  been  made  for  the 
many  contaminating  influences  beside  the  exhalations 
of  the  occupants.  Dr.  Billings  places  the  requisite 
supply  of  air  at  one  cubic  foot  per  second,  or  3600 
cubic  feet  per  hour.  If  fires  and  lights  are  burning 
in  the  rooms,  additional  allowance  in  the  supply  of 
fresh  air  should  be  made.  It  is  not  possible  to  make 
an  accurate  measurement  of  each  of  the  many  sources 
of  contamination ;  it  is  necessary,  therefore,  to  make 
liberal  allowance  for  deficiencies  in  providing  for  the 
air  supply  of  houses.  The  more  closely  we  can  cause 
the  air  within  doors  to  approach  in  composition  the 
atmosphere  without,  the  more  beneficial  will  be  its 
effect  upon  health.  Children  expire  a  lower  propor- 
tion of  carbon  dioxide  than  do  adults.  Persons  en- 
gaged in  physical  exertion  exhale  much  more  than  the 
ordinary  amount ;  sick  people  require  a  greater  supply 
of  fresh  air  than  is  indispensable  to  the  healthy.  It  is 
therefore  plain  to  us  that  buildings  used  for  different 
purposes  require  varying  allowances  for  the  proper 
supply  of  air. 

Illustrative  Examples. — At  the  rate  of  contami- 
nation already  stated,  the  air  in  an  ordinary  bedroom, 
say  12  by  14  by  11  feet,  containing  1848  cubic  feet  of 
space,  would  be  contaminated  by  the  exhalations  of  a 


THE    AIR    OF    ROOMS.  67 

single  occupant  in  a  little  less  than  3  7  minutes.  A 
school  room  28  by  35  by  14  feet  would  contain  13,720 
cubic  feet  of  air.  Suppose  such  a  room  to  be  occupied 
by  60  children,  allowing  each  of  them  only  2000 
cubic  feet  of  air  per  hour,  the  contained  atmosphere 
would  become  vitiated  in  less  than  7  minutes.  For- 
tunately for  most  of  us,  the  doors  and  windows  of 
ordinary  dwellings  are  seldom  made  to  close  tightly  ; 
consequently  they  permit  some  passage  'of  air,  and 
the  evil  results  of  neglect  in  ventilation  are  delayed 
beyond  the  theoretical  indications. 

The  Amount  Of  Space  necessary  to  the  well  be- 
ing of  the  inmates  of  a  room  is  a  subject  requiring 
attention.  If  the  space  be  made  inadequately  small,  the 
entrance  of  a  proper  amount  of  air  within  a  given 
time   may    cause    injurious    draught*        The    figures 


*  Parkes  has  furnished  us  the  following  good  illustration :  "For 
instance,  suppose  in  a  dormitory  occupied  by  10  persons  the 
amount  of  space  per  head  is  only  300  feet;  to  supply  3000  cubic 
feet  of  fresh  air  per  hour,  30,000  cubic  feet  must  be  admitted  in 
this  period,  and  the  air  of  the  room  will  be  completely  changed 
10  times,  a  proceeding  which  would  cause  in  cold  weather,  unless 
the  entering  air  was  warm,  a  most  disagreeable  draught,  for  the 
cold  air  could  not  be  properly  distributed  before  reaching  the 
persons  of  the  occupants.  But  if  the  cubic  space  per  head  be 
1000  cubic  feet,  then  the  air  of  the  dormitory  need  be  changed 
only  3  times  per  hour,  and  if  such  renewal  is  effected  steadily 
and  gradually,  the  cold  entering  air  is  broken  up,  and  mixing 
with  the  warm  air  of  the  apartment  creates  no  draught."  The 
same  author  has  drawn  attention  to  the  necessity  of  providing 
adequate  floor  space  for  each  individual;  "for,"  says  he,  "if  the 
height  of  the  room  is  much  over  12  feet,  excess  in  this  direction 
does  not  compensate  for  deficiency  in  the  other  dimensions, 
although  the  total  cubic  space  may  be  the  same;  thus  it  would 
not  be  the  same  thing  to  allow  a  man  50  square  feet  of  floor  space 
in  a  room  20  feet  high,  as  to  allow  bim  100  square  feet  of  floor 


68  DOMESTIC    SCIENCE. 

already  given  as  indicating  the  necessary  supply  of 
fresh  air  are  based  upon  the  investigations  of  many 
leading  authorities.  On  this  subject  however  there  is 
a  wide  discrepancy  of  opinion,  and  some  writers  give 
figures  which  by  comparison  would  seem  dispropor- 
tionately low.*  It  is  well  to  set  our  ideal  conditions 
of  atmospheric  purity  fairly  high,  and  then  approach 
them  as  closely  as  the  prevailing  conditions  may  per- 
mit. 

Ill  Effects  of  Cellars  under  Houses. — Another 

prolific  source  of  contamination  to  the  air  of 
dwellings  arises  from  the  hurtful  custom  of  digging 
cellars  beneath  the  floors  of  houses.  Cellars  are 
usually  damp  and  musty,  even  if  nothing  be  stored  in 
them ;  but  such  places  are  commonly  made  receptacles 
for  the  most  perishable  products.  The  foul  gases  gen- 
erated from  such  decaying  matter  rise  into  the  rooms 
above,  carrying  with  them  the  influences  of  disease. 
The  earth  itself,  near  the  surface,  is  rich  in  decomposa- 


space  in  a  room  10  feet  high,  although  the  amount  of  cubic  space 
allotted  in  each  case  "would  be  identical.  The  reason  is  that  the 
organic  matters  of  respiration  are  not  equally  diffused  through- 
out the  air  of  the  apartment,  but  tend  to  accumulate  in  the  lower 
strata,  consequently  excessive  height  does  not,  in  their  case, 
mean  a  corresponding  dilution." 

*  Among  builders  there  is  a  woeful  lack  of  uniformity  in 
ideas  as  to  the  requisite  air  supply  for  health.  The  writer  has 
applied  to  a  number  of  prominent  architects  for  such  informa- 
tion, some  answers  obtained  indicated  a  belief  in  the  figures 
above  quoted;  others  gave  very  low  estimates.  One  architect 
considered  necessary  16.6  cubic  feet  per  minute,  and  one  gave  4 
cubic  feet  per  minute  as  a  liberal  estimate,  adding  that  4.5  cubic 
feet  would  be  exceptionally  good.  Chemical  analysis  would 
show  the  air  of  occupied  rooms  so  supplied,  to  be  truly  filthy,  and 
buildings  so  constructed  are  far  from  healthful. 


THE    AIR    OF    ROOMS.  69 

ble  matters,  and  under  the  most  favorable  of 
circumstances  the  ground  upon  which  a  house  rests 
becomes  saturated  with  the  emanations  of  the  rotting 
contents  of  the  soil.  Even  upper  rooms  though  they 
may  be  properly  plastered  and  floored,  soon  become 
foul  if  not  thoroughly  aired  at  short  intervals.  This 
is  because  there  are  many  putresible  substances  in  the 
earth  and  upon  the  walls  and  furniture  of  the  room, 
and  the  products  of  decomposition  accumulate  with 
alarming  rapidity,  unless  adequate  provisions  be  made 
for  their  removal. 

Vitiation  of  Air  by  Combustion — if  the  com- 
bustion of  fuel  in  open  fireplaces  and  in  stoves  were 
thoroughly  accomplished,  the  vitiated  air  would  be 
removed  from  the  room  through  the  draught  flue.  In 
the  case  of  artificial  lights,  however,  such  as  candles, 
lamps,  and  gas  flames,  the  products  of  combustion, 
together  with  the  nitrogen  gas  which  is  left  after  the 
consumption  of  the  oxygen,  remain  in  the  room.  The 
rate  of  such  vitiating  processes  depends,  of  course, 
upon  the  substances  burned  and  the  rapidity  of  the 
combustion.  By  careful  trials  it  has  been  found  that  a 
pound  of  good  charcoal  requires  for  its  complete  com- 
bustion 11  pounds  of  air,  which  amount  of  air  would 
measure  about  150  cubic  feet.  One  pound  of  mineral 
coal  of  ordinary  quality  requires  a  little  more  than 
9^  pounds,  or  about  120  cubic  feet  of  air.  A  pound 
of  dry  wood  consumes  while  burning  about  six 
pounds,  or  78  cubic  feet  of  air.  For  purposes  of 
illumination  candles  are  now  but  little  used ;  their 
former    place    being    taken    by    oil    lamps    and    gas 


?0  DOMESTIC    SCIENCE. 

flames.  Kerosene  lamps  vary  greatly  in  the  relative 
amounts  of  oil  which  they  consume.  A  lamp  of  ordi- 
nary size  will  vitiate  to  an  unbreathable  state  between 
70  and  80  cubic  feet  of  air  per  hour. 

A  consideration  of  these  facts  will  indicate  the 
absolute  necessity  of  providing  efficient  means  for  a 
constant  supply  of  fresh  air  in  dwellings. 


REVIEW. 

1.  What  are  the  principal  sources  of  impurity  in  the  air  of 
rooms? 

2.  Show  the  contaminating  effect  of  human  beings  on  the  air 
of  rooms. 

3.  Demonstrate  that  foul  matters  are  constantly  being  thrown 
off  by  the  human  lungs  and  skin? 

4.  Show  the  value  of  the  sense  of  smell  in  warning  us  against 
foul  air. 

5.  What  do  you  know  of  the  delicacy  of  the  sense  of  smell? 

6.  By  what  means  is  the  outer  air  in  the  neighborhood  of 
dwellings  often  contaminated? 

7.  What  particular  contaminating  ingredients  are  to  be  found 
in  the  air  of  marshy  places? 

8.  What  do  you  know  of  sulphuretted  hydrogen? 

9.  Give  illustrations  of  the  rate  at  which  contamination  of 
air  progresses  in  closed  apartments . 

10.  State  the  quantities  of  air  needed  per  hour  for  each  in- 
mate, for  the  proper  ventilation  of  dwellings. 

11.  Illustrate  by  instances  of  bed  rooms  and  school  rooms  of 
definite  sizes,  the  rate  of  contamination  from  the  inmates . 

12.  Show  the  hurtful  effects  of  placing  cellars  beneath  dwell- 
ing rooms. 

13.  What  effect  have  fires  and  lights  on  the  air  of  rooms? 

14.  Give  illustrations  of  the  amounts  of  air  required  for  the 
combustion  of  definite  weights  of  certain  fuels. 


ILL    EFFECTS    OF    IMPURE    AIR.  71 


CHAPTER   6. 


ILL    EFFECTS    OF    IMPURE    AIR. 


The  physical  operations  of  which  the  Breathing1 
Process  consists  are  simple.  Gaseous  matter  is  taken 
into  the  lungs,  and  after  a  short  time  much  of  it  is  ex- 
pelled again.  This  ingoing  and  outgoing  action  might 
be  in  some  degree  imitated  by  a  pair  of  bellows  ;  here, 
however,  the  analogy  ends  ;  the  air  escapes  from  the 
bellows  unchanged  in  composition  or  general  proper- 
ties, but  the  air  exhaled  from  the  lungs  is  very  different 
from  that  taken  in. 

The  Respiratory  Apparatus. — Let  us  consider 

briefly  the  structure  of  the  respiratory  apparatus.  A 
sketch  of  the  principal  organs  is  given  in  figure  33. 
The  mouth  is  connected  directly  with  a  tube  known  as 
the  trachea  or  windpipe,  B  ;  this  extends  downward 
through  the  neck  into  the  chest  cavity,  and  there 
divides,  sending  a  branch,  called  a  bronchus,  to  each 
lung.  The  human  lung,  like  every  other  part  of  the 
body,  is  of  strange  and  wonderful  workmanship  ;  yet 
simple  and  surprisingly  efficient.  The  lung,  when 
divested  of  its  delicate  wrappings,  may  be  compared  to 
a  bag  surrounding  the  bronchus  (as  at  C),  so  as  to 
appear  as  an  expansion  of  this  tube.  By  dissecting 
away  the  outer  portions  of  the  lung,  the  tube  which 
enters  it  is  seen  to  divide,  and  the  branches  subdivide 


72 


DOMESTIC     SCIENCE. 


again  and  again,  as  at  D,  till  they  form  a  net  work  of 
tiny  tubes,  so  minute  that  with  our  unaided  vision  we 
cannot  follow  them  to  their  terminations.  Calling  the 
microscope  to  our  aid,  however,  we   will  find   that  the 


Fig.  33. 
Organs  of  respiration. 

finest  division  of  the  bronchial  tubes  1,  terminate  in 
expanded  bladder-like  inclosures,  as  in  2.  These  are 
called  air  vesicles,  and  are  clustered  together  in  forms 
suggesting  bunches  of  grapes.  A  view  of  the  air  vesi- 
cles laid  open  is  given  at  3. 


ILL    EFFECTS    OF    IMPURE    AIR.  73 

Aeration  Of  the  BlOOd. — During  the  process  of 
inhalation,  air  is  drawn  through  the  windpipe  into  the 
lungs,  there  filling  and  inflating  the  air  vesicles.  The 
walls  of  these  vesicles  are  surprisingly  thin,  far  more 
delicate  in  structure  than  the  finest  of  artificial  fabrics. 
Tiny  arteries  and  veins  convey  the  blood  to  and  from 
these  air  vesicles,  the  vessels  spreading  over  the  sur- 
face of  the  vesicles,  so  that  the  contained  blood  is 
separated  from  the  air  only  by  the  thin  membranous 
wall  already  described.  There  is  a  remarkable  ten- 
dency known  as  osmosis,  possessed  by  all  fluids,  by 
which  they  strive  to  mix  with  each  other,  even  if  sep- 
arated by  a  tolerably  thick  partition,  providing,  of 
course,  that  the  separating  medium  is  at  all  perme- 
able. 

By  this  property,  the  air  that  has  been  drawn  into 
the  vesicles  passes  through  the  inclosing  wail  and 
mingles  with  the  blood  ;  and  at  the  same  time,  the  foul 
gases,  which  have  been  acquired  by  the  blood  in  its 
passage  through  the  system,  pass  into  the  cavities  of 
the  air  vesicles  and  are  expelled  from  the  body  in  the 
succeeding  exhalations.  In  this  way,  the  blood  be- 
comes aerated  or  purified  by  exchanging  the  gaseous 
products  of  disassimilation  for  invigorating  oxygen. 
Charged  with  this  life-giving  ingredient,  the  blood 
again  goes  bounding  through  the  body  carrying  vital- 
ity and  energy  to  every  part.  If  the  effete  matters 
resulting  from  the  vital  processes  were  left  to  accumu- 
late within  the  body,  speedy  suffocation  would  result. 
They  can    be    removed    only    by   efficient    respiration, 

3 


/4  DOMESTIC    SCIENCE. 

taking  place  through  the  instrumentality  of  compara- 
tively pure  air. 

Morbid  Effects  of  Vitiated  Ait.— Scrofula.— 
The  morbid  effects  wrought  upon  the  system  through 
the  inhalation  of  impure  or  vitiated  air  are  very  varied. 
Many  specific  diseases,  and  much  general  debility  and 
predisposition  to  bodily  disorders  have  been  directly 
traced  to  this  cause.  Scrofulous  affections  are  fre- 
quently aided  in  this  way.  Ills  of  this  class  bear  evi- 
dences of  impaired  and  inefficient  nutrition ;  by  this  is 
meant  the  inability  of  the  body  to  properly  assimilate 
the  elements  of  food  and  to  produce  therefrom  healthy 
tissue.  M.  Baudoloque,  a  French  physician  of  high 
repute  and  a  specialist  in  scrofulous  disorders,  writes  : 
"Invariably  it  will  be  found  on  examination  that  a 
truly  scrofulous  disease  is  caused  by  a  vitiated  air,  and 
it  is  not  always  necessary  that  there  should  have  been 
a  prolonged  stay  in  such  an  atmosphere.  Often  a  few 
hours  each  day  is  sufficient,  and  it  is  thus  that  persons 
may  live  in  the  most  healthy  (healthful)  country,  pass 
the  greater  part  of  the  day  in  the  open  air,  and  yet  be- 
come scrofulous,  because  of  sleeping  in  a  confined 
place,  where  the  air  has  not  been  renewed." 

Consumption,  another  dread  disease,  which  carries 
so  many  people  to  their  graves,  is  closely  allied 
in  its  nature  to  scrofula.*     In  consumption,  or  Tuber - 


'*"  One  not  very  strong  or  unable  powerfully  to  resist  conditions 
unfavorable  to  health,  and  with  a  predisposition  to  lung  disease, 
will  be  sure,  sooner  or  later,  by  partial  lung  starvation  and  blood 
poisoning  to  develop  pulmonary  consumption.    The  lack  of  what 


ILL    EFFECTS    OF    IMPURE    AIR.  75 

culosis,  as  physicians  term  the  disorder,  the  lungs  of 
the  sufferer  develop  throughout  their  tissue,  num- 
erous lumpy  concretions  or  tubercles,  which  consist 
for  the  most  part  of  albumen  in  a  coagulated  and 
partially  organized  form.* 

Sore  Throat. — A  special  variety  of  sore  throat, 
TonsiliUs,  is  recognized  by  the  medical  profession  as 
frequently  resulting  from  the  breathing  of  air  laden 
with  the  products  of  organic  decay.  As  this  disease 
is  of  common  occurrence  among  the  inmates  of  houses 
that  are  provided  with  poorly  arranged  drains,  causing 
a  flow  of  impure  gases  from  the  sewer  or  cess-pool 
to  the  rooms  of  the  house,  the   disorder  is   frequently 


is  so  abundant  and  so  cheap— good,  pure  air— is  unquestionably 
the  one  great  cause  of  this  terrible  disease." 

Black,  in  "  Ten  Laws  of  Health." 

*"  A  great  amount  of  phthisis  (consumption)  has  prevailed  in 
the  most  varied  stations  of  the  (English)  army,  and  in  the 
most  beautiful  climates — in  Gibraltar,  Malta,  Ionia,  Jamaica, 
Trinidad,  Bermuda — in  all  of  which  places  the  only  common  con- 
dition was  the  vitiated  atmosphere  which  our  barrack  system 
everywhere  produced.  And,  as  if  to  clinch  the  argument,  there 
has  been  of  late  years  a  most  decided  decline  in  phthisis  in  these 
stations,  while  the  only  circumstance  which  has  notably  changed 
in  the  time  has  been  the  condition  of  the  air." —  Report  of  English 
Army  Sanitary  Commissioners  (quoted  by  BLACK). 

"  Carmichael,  in  his  work  on  '  Scrofula,'  gives  some  most  strik- 
ing instances  where  impure  air,  bad  diet,  and  deficient  exercise 
concurred  together  to  produce  a  most  formidable  mortality  from 
phthisis.  In  one  instance  in  the  Dublin  House  of  Industry,  where 
scrofula  was  formerly  so  common  ;as  to  be  thought  contagious, 
there  were,  in  one  ward,  60  feet  long  by  18  feet  wide,  38  beds,  each 
containing  four  children;  the  atmosphere  was  so  bad  that  in  the 
morning  the  air  of  the  ward  was  unendurable.  In  some  of  the 
schools  examined  by  Carmichael,  the  diet  was  excellent,  and  the 
only  causes  for  the  excessive  phthisis  were  the  foul  air  and 
the  want  of  exercise."— Dr.  Parkes,  London. 


/6  DOMESTIC    SCIENCE. 

called  "sewer  air  throat."  "It  is  marked,"  says  Dr. 
Parkes,  of  London,  "by  great  inflammatory  swelling 
of  the  tonsils,  very  foul  tongue,  gastric  derangement, 
accompanied  by  severe  headache  and  intense  depres- 
sion. The  temperature  of  the  body  is  often  not  much 
raised,  certainly  not  to  a  height  proportionate  to  the 
severe  symptoms  ;  but  this  low  temperature,  together 
with  the  intense  prostration,  are  characteristic  of  most 
illnesses  resulting  from  the  entrance  of  sewer -polluted 
air  or  water  into  the  system." 

Severe  Dysentery  is  frequently  caused  by  the  breath- 
ing of  contaminated  air.  To  this  is  to  be  attributed 
the  periodical  occurrence  of  summer  disorders  of  this 
class,  which  sometimes  produce  an  alarming  degree  of 
mortality.  These  fatal  results  are  especially  marked 
among  children,  whose  comparatively  feeble  vitality 
and  tender  constitutions  can  but  poorly  withstand  the 
death-dealing  influences  of  these  foul  causes. 

Mortality  Among1  Children  in  Iceland. — it  is 

reported  by  travelers  that  the  inhabitants  of  Iceland 
seem  oblivious  to  the  importance  of  ventilation  in  their 
snow  huts.  Warmth  they  crave,  and  this  they  may 
secure,  though  frequently  at  the  expense  of  life.  Dr. 
Youmans  remarks,  "  We  are  therefore  not  surprised 
that  in  the  foul  and  stifling  air  of  Iceland  habitations, 
two  out  of  three  of  all  the  children  should  die  before 
twelve  days  old."* 


*"The  extreme  cold  of  the  winter  in  Iceland,  reduces  the  sys- 
tem of  domestic  ventilation  in  that  country  to  very  primitive 
principles.  A  traveler  there  was  so  choked  one  night  by  the  close 
atmosphere  of  the  air-tight  little  chamber,  in  which  he  slept  with 


ILL    EFFECTS    OF    IMPURE    AIR.  t  / 

Foul  Air  Weakens  the  Entire  System. — Be- 
side the  few  specific  bodily  troubles  named  above,  out 
of  the  many  that  could  be  enumerated  as  resulting 
from  the  inhalation  of  polluted  air,  the  same  cause 
produces  a  general  undermining  of  the  vital  powers, 
and  a  strong  predisposition  of  the  bodidy  tissues  to 
disease  of  many  kinds.  All  influences  that  tend  to 
lower  the  bodily  vitality,  weaken  our  hold  on  life  by 
inviting  disease  to  take  up  its  abode  within  our  bodies.* 
An  impoverished  system  is  a  fertile  field  for  the  ger- 
mination and  development  of  disease  germs.  It  is 
believed  that  such  germs  are  widely  distributed  through 
the  atmosphere,  ever  ready  to  enter  the  human  body  ; 
yet  they  flourish  within  the  system  only  when  they  find 
there  proper  nutriment,  such  as  the  impurities  attend- 
ing degenerated  tissues  and  disorganized  functions  ; 
otherwise  they  die  through  lack  of  nourishment,  t 


all  the  male  members  of  the  family,  as  to  be  compelled  to  wake 

his  host,  who  sprang  out  of  bed  at  the  call,  pulled  a  cork  from  a 
knot-hole  in  the  Avail  for  a  few  minutes,  and  after  replacing  the 
cork,  with  a  shiver  returned  to  bed." 

Science,  1889. 

*"  On  the  imagination  of  mothers,  educated  as  well  as  ignor- 
ant, the  feeling  still  seems  to  he  stereotyped,  that  the  free,  pure 
unadulterated  air  of  heaven  falls  upon  the  brow  of  infancy  as  the 
poppies  of  eternal  sleep,  and  enters  the  lungs  and  circulates  as  a 
deadly  poison:  and  still  the  shawls  and  blankets,  sleeping  and 
awake,  are  pretty  generally  employed  to  deprive  the  objects  of 
the  most  rapturous,  paternal  solicitude,  of  what  was  originally 
breathed  into  the  nostrils  of  the  great  archetype  of  the  human 
race  as  the  'breath  of  life.'  " 

(Quoted  by  Youmaxs.) 

t  "  It  was  in  England  that  the  solution  of  the  great  problem  of 
hygiene  was  first  attempted.  'Preventive  Medicine'  it  is  there 
called.    Palmerston  told    a   deputation  which   waited  on  him    in 


78  DOMESTIC    SCIENCE. 

Effects  of  Foul  Air  on  the  Mental  Powers:— 

The  mental  powers  are  greatly  weakened  and  conse- 
quently hindered  in  their  proper  exercise  if  foul  air  be 
breathed.  This  would  be  naturally  expected  from  a 
consideration  of  the  close  relationship  existing  between 
the  mental  and  the  physical  functions  of  the  body. 
The  brain  is  appropriately  spoken  of  as  the  organ  or 
seat  of  the  mind ;  that  is  to  say,  though  the  brain  and 
the  mind  are  in  no  sense  identical,  the  latter  is  depen- 
dent for  its  action  upon  the  former,  just  as  the  hand 
in  writing  is  dependent  upon  the  pen.  Although  the 
exact  relationship  between  brain  and  mind  are  but  lit- 
tle comprehended,  it  is  known  as  a  fact  that  an  injury 
to  the  brain  affects  in  some  degree  the  mental  faculties, 
and  that  a  strong,  well- trained  mind  is  always  asso- 
ciated with  a  properly  developed  brain. 

The  brain  is  composed  of  nervous  tissue,  and  is 
nourished  by  the  blood  in  the  same  manner  as  are  all 
other  parts  of  the  body.  A  very  large  proportion  of 
the  blood  of  the  body  passes  to  the  brain  and  is  dis- 
tributed over   its    surface   through   numerous    minute 

order  to  ask  him  to  order  a  fast  on  the  approach  of  the  second 
epidemic  of  cholera,  to  cleanse  their  sewers  and  diligently  visit 
the  dwellings  of  the  poor.  And  he  did  not  confine  himself  to 
good  advice,  but  with  his  usual  energy  he  laid  his  hand  on  sani- 
tary legislation,  and  purified  the  air  of  London  and  the  large 
manufacturing  towns.  The  result  of  the  sanitary  measures  car- 
ried out  was  a  reduction  of  the  mortality  of  London  from  26  to  23 
per  1,000,  and  in  some  of  the  towns  to  17  per  1,000— a  low  death  rate 
previously  only  equalled  in  the  Isle  of  Wight.  More  than  4,000 
lives  have  been  preserved  yearly  in  London,  and  assuming  that 
the  mortality  among  the  sick  is  1  in  20,  this  number  represents  a 
diminution  in  yearly  sickness  to  the  extent  of  80,000." 

Dr.  Seegen. 


ILL    EFFECTS    OF    IMPURE    AIR.  79 

vessels.  As  a  consequence,  the  brain  is  rapidly  and 
strongly  influenced  by  the  state  of  purity  in  the  blood, 
and  as  before  seen,  the  blood  is  greatly  affected  by  the 
condition  of  the  air  employed  in  respiration.  It  is  clear 
then  that  the  brain  depends  largely  for  its  normal  ac- 
tion upon  the  air  that  is  breathed. 

Popular    Disregard    of    Requirements    for 

Pure  Air. — Yet  how  oblivious  are  the  majority  of 
people  to  these  vital  facts  !  Even  among  the  noble 
class  of  students,  old  and  young,  all  of  whom  are 
supposed  to  be  thinkers,  there  prevails  the  most  de- 
plorable ignorance  ;  or,  if  not  this,  then  the  most  hurt- 
ful, almost  criminal  negligence.  The  pupil  at  his 
books,  the  editor  with  his  pen,  the  artist  at  his  easel, 
and  even  the  theologian  asking  for  divine  inspiration 
in  his  sacred  studies,  are  apt  to  voluntarily  surround 
themselves  with  the  stifling,  mephitic  atmosphere  of 
close-shut  rooms.  Unto  them  the  air  of  heaven  is  for- 
bidden to  come. 

In  places  for  public  gatherings  the  conditions  are 
even  worse.  Though  architects  have  now  partly 
learned  the  lesson  of  providing  adequate  avenues  of 
ventilation,  thoughtless  janitors  persistently  ignore  the 
means  supplied.  In  the  churches  and  meeting  houses 
dedicated  to  the  worship  of  the  Being  who  framed  the 
laws  of  health,  and  who  provided  the  means  for  their 
observance,  places  in  which  multitudes  gather  with  the 
professed  desire  of  hearing  and  understanding  the 
word  of  God,  the  vitiated  air  begets  dullness  of  intel- 
lect and  torpor  of  spirit,  and  the  gentle  voice  of  divine 
inspiration  is  unheeded    and    unheard.     Much  of  the 


80  DOMESTIC    SCIENCE. 

proverbial  drowsiness  among  the  congregations  of 
churches  is  directly  traceable  to  the  closed  windows 
and  shut  doors  of  those  sacred  edifices.  Is  it  other 
than  a  grievous  sin,  a  mockery  indeed  of  the  Creator's 
goodness,  to  petition  for  the  inspiration  of  His  Spirit, 
and  then  to  willfully  darken  our  minds  and  bring  obliv- 
ion upon  our  souls?  The  writer  has  been  at  night  in 
places  of  worship  in  which  the  lamps  burned  dimly  for 
want  of  supporting  oxygen  ;  think  you  the  spirits  of 
those  present  were  not  correspondingly  darkened?  Is 
Godliness  to  be  attained  in  the  midst  of  willful  and 
persistent  uncleanliness? 


REVIEW. 

1.  Describe  the  processes  of  human  respiration. 

2.  Describe  the  organs  of  respiration. 

3.  Explain  the  effect  of  pure  air  upon  the  blood  in  the  vessels 
of  the  lungs. 

4.  State  the  principal  diseases  which  are  particularly  favored 
by  the  breathing  of  foul  air. 

5.  What  do  you  know  of  scrofulous  disorders  being  aided  by 
vitiated  air? 

6.  Of  consumption? 

7.  Of  tonsilitis? 

8.  Show  the  effects  of  foul>ir  in  inducing  general  disposition 
of  the  bodily  tissues  toward  disease. 

9.  Give  instances,  from  among  those  quoted,  of  the  baneful 
effects  of  contaminated  air. 

10.  What  have  you  heard  of  the  inefficient  ventilation  practiced 
in  Iceland,  and  of  the  high  rate  of  mortality  there  prevailing 
among  children? 

11.  What  effect  has  impure  air  on  the  mental  powers? 

12.  Explain  the  physiological  effects  of  foul  air  upon  the 
brain. 


DUST    IN    THE    AIR.  81 


CHAPTER   7. 

DUST    IN    THE    AIR. 


Dust  Floating1  in  the  Air. —  The  principal 
gaseous  and  liquid  impurities  of  the  atmosphere 
have  been  dwelt  upon  in  a  previous  chapter,  but  in 
addition  to  the  contaminating  substances  there  named, 
there  are  others,  consisting  of  finely  divided,  solid 
particles.  The  name  commonly  applied  to  this  class  of 
impurities  is  dust.  Until  recently,  but  little  thought 
was  bestowed  upon  the  ill  effects  of  these  floating  par- 
ticles ;  of  late,  however,  the  subject  has  received 
greater  attention.  It  has  been  conclusively  proved  by 
experiment  and  observation  that  the  inhalation  of  dust- 
laden  air  is  a  potent  factor  in  the  production  and 
growth  of  certain  disorders  of  the  respiratory  organs, 
among  which  bronchitis,  pneumonia,  and  phthisis  are 
prominent.  The  presence  of  dust  within  the  respira- 
tory passages  will  invariably  produce  serious  results, 
owing  to  the  irritating  effect  of  hard  particles  upon  the 
delicate  lung  tissues. 

Dust  Inhaling5  Occupations. — To  illustrate  the 

effect  of  dust  upon  the  respiratory  organs,  let  us  con- 
sider briefly  the  effects  of  some  particular  branches  of 
dusty  toil.  Dr.  Hall  tells  us  that  the  average  life  of 
fork  grinders  is  about  twenty -nine  years,  and  that  of 
edge-tool  workers  generally  about  thirty -one  years, 
the  cause  of  death  in  the  majority  of  cases  being  lung 


82  DOMESTIC    SCIENCE. 

troubles,  induced  through  the  inhaling  of  metallic  par- 
ticles and  the  dust  arising  from  the  wear  of  the  grind- 
stones. Pearl  button  makers  suffer  from  such  disor- 
ders to  a  marked  extent,  as  do  also  workers  of  flax 
and  cotton,  and  employes  in  paper  factories. 

Hard  and  Irritating  Dust  Most  Injurious. — 

An  attentive  review  of  statistics  representing  the  com- 
parative mortality  among  people  of  different  dusty 
occupations,  reveals  the  fact  that  the  most  injurious 
kinds  of  dust  are  such  as  consist  of  hard,  sharp,  and 
angular  pieces.  Dr.  Ogle,  of  England,  has  compiled 
a  table*  showing  the  mortality  among  British  people 
(males)  between  the  ages  of  tvventy-five  and  sixty  - 
five  years,  who  are  employed  in  certain  widely  different 
occupations,  including  those  of  (1)  coal  miners,  (2) 
carpenters,  (3)  bakers  and  confectioners,  (4)  plumbers, 
painters,  and  glaziers;  (5)  masons  and  bricklayers; 
(6)  wool  workers  ;  (7)  cotton  workers  ;  (8)  quarry - 
men  (stone  and  slate)  ;  (9)  cutlers  ;  (10)  file-makers  ; 
(11)  earthenware  manufacturers;  (12)  Cornish  tin 
miners. 

Comparative  Mortality  among"  Coal  Miners 

and  Tin  Miners. — It  is  found  that  these  trades 
stand  in  the  order  in  which  they  are  given  above  in 
the  scale  of  increasing  mortality  among  their  fol- 
lowers ;  that  is  to  say,  among  the  people  employed  in 
the  occupations  named,  the  English  coal  miner  is  freest 


*  Published  as  a  supplement  to  the  Forty-fifth  Annual  Report  of 
the  Registrar-General  of  England.  For  quotations  and  com- 
ments see  "Practical  Hygiene"  by  Dr.  Louis  C.  Partes,  London. 


DUST    IN    THE    AIR.  83 

from  lung  disorders,  and  the  Cornish  tin -miner  is  of 
all  most  subject  to  such  troubles.  Indeed  the  mortality 
from  lung  diseases  alone  among  the  miners  of  tin  ore 
is  3.5  times  that  among  the  coal  diggers;  nearly  66 
per  cent,  of  the  total  mortality  among  tin -miners  is 
due  to  bronchial  disorders,  and  the  death-rate  among 
this  class  of  workmen  is  nearly  three  times  as  high  as 
that  of  the  male  population  of  their  region  considered 
as  a  whole. 

Dr.  Ogle  attributes  the  comparative  safety*  of  coal 
miners  in  this  respect,  mainly  to  the  softness  of  coal- 
dust  particles  and  to  the  freedom  of  such  from  all 
sharp  angles  and  points.  He  believes  also  that  coal- 
dust  exercises  some  influence  in  hindering  the  progress 
of  phthisical  disorders.  Such  comparative  immunity 
from  lung  diseases  among  the  miners  of  coal,  is  still 
more  surprising  when  we  consider  that  these  men  are 
kept  while  at  work  in  a  heated  atmosphere,  vitiated 
from  constant  emanations  of  noxious  gases  from  the 
walls,  ceilings,  and  floors  of  the  black,  subterranean 
passages.!     The  tin-miners  on  the  other  hand,  though 

*  The  reader  should  guard  himself  against  an  exaggerated 
opinion  of  the  safety  of  coal-ruiners.  The  immunity  spoken  of 
in  the  text  has  reference  to  lung  diseases  only,  and  the  compari- 
son is  made  .with  other  dust- inhaling  occupations  only.  The 
miner  of  coal  is  certainly  far  more  liable  to  bronchial  troubles 
than  persons  protected  from  all  dust  would  be.  That  coal  mining 
is  a  hazardous  occupation  from  liability  to  terrible  accidents 
needs  no  argument  here. 

t  Let  it  be  remembered  that  these  statements  regarding  the 
healthfulness  of  coal-miners  are  applied  to  the  workers  of  British 
mines  only.  The  laws  of  England  regarding  the  ventilation  of 
mines,  especially  coal-mines,  are  strict.  The  copious  flow  of  air 
through  the  underground  passage  carries  away  noxious  gases 
and  dust  as  fast  as  liberated. 


84  DOMESTIC    SCIENCE. 

laboring  under  many  conditions  similar  to  those  at- 
tending the  coal  workers,  inhale  dust  consisting  of 
hard,  sharp,  and  irritant  particles. 

Poisonous  Dust. —  These  examples  illustrate 
the  mechanical  irritation  on  the  walls  of  the  air 
passages  occasioned  by  dust,  much  of  which,  in  a 
toxical  sense,  may  be  considered  innocuous,  there 
are  other  occupations,  however,  in  the  course  of  whicli 
the  workmen  are  exposed  to  poisonous  dust.  Such 
is  the  case  with  brass  founders  and  copper-smiths, 
among  whom  mortality  runs  high  from  copper  poison- 
ing; "brass-founders'  ague''  used  to  be  a  popular 
name  for  disorders  of  this  sort.  Lead  poisoning  is  a 
frequent  cause  of  death  among  plumbers  and  painters, 
the  former  contracting  the  disease  from  the  inhalation 
of  volatalized  lead  and  lead  oxide,  and  the  latter  from 
breathing  air  laden  with  white -lead  dust,  and  from 
absorbing  through  the  skin  the  poisonous  lead  com- 
pounds of  their  paints.  Mercurial  poisoning  causes  a 
rise  of  mortality  among  all  who  work  with  the  curious 
quicksilver,  and  arsenical  fumes  carry  many  to  early 
graves  from  the  ranks  of  ore  roasters. 

All  Dust  Deleterious. — The  cases  already  referred 
to  are  somewhat  special  in  their  nature,  it  is  true ; 
comparatively  few  are  called  to  labor  and  to  suffer  in 
such  injurious  occupations  ;  yet  there  are  lessons  in 
these  examples  which  are  applicable  to  all  people.  We 
learn  that  dust  of  any  description  is  deleterious  when 
introduced  into  the  air  passages  of  the  body ;  care, 
therefore,  should  be  exercised  to  escape  the  injuries 
thus  indicated. 


DUST    IN    THE    AIR.  85 

Inhalation  Through  the  Nostrils.— The  Creator 

has  done  much  to  arm  His  children  against  these  in- 
evitable dangers.  Our  nostrils  are  lined  with  stout 
hairs,  vibrissa?  they  are  called,  and  these  act  some- 
what as  a  sieve  to  the  air  that  passes  between  them. 
The  nose  openings  are  the  proper  respiratory  entrances 
to  the  lungs,  and  much  of  the  dust,  which,  if  breath- 
ing be  carried  on  through  the  mouth,  will  surely  find 
its  way  into  the  deeper  air  passages,  will  be  arrested 
in  its  course  if  forced  to  thread  the  intricate  passages 
of  the  nose.  When  a  person  is  exposed  to  dust,  the 
mouth  should  be  kept  closed. 

Lining1  of  Respiratory  Passages.— Further  de- 
fense against  the  injuries  of  dust-laden  air  is  offered 
by  the  peculiar  structure  of  the  lining  membrane  in 
the  trachea  and  the  lung  passages.  The  inner  surface 
of  these  channels  is  ciliated — that  is,  covered  with 
innumerable  hair-like  outgrowths  (cilia),  so  fine  as  to 
appear  under  the  low  powers  of  the  microscope  like 
the  pile  on  new  velvet.  These  countless  cilia  are  in 
a  state  of  constant  motion,  like  waving  grain  under 
the  influence  of  a  gentle  breeze,  and  as  the  direct 
movement  is  always  toward  the  mouth,  there  is  a 
tendency  to  sweep  upward  from  the  lungs  all  solid 
particles  that  may  have  found  lodgment  upon  the 
walls.  When  the  dust  thus  carried  reaches  the  throat, 
a  cough  suggests  itself,  and  expectoration  follows,  and 
the  intruding  particles  are  ejected  from  the  body. 

Inanimate  Components  of  Dust. — it  will  per- 
haps be  interesting,  and  certainly  instructive,  to  inquire 


86  DOMESTIC    SCIENCE. 

as  to  the  nature  of  common  street  dust.  Its  grittiness 
declares  the  presence  of  earthy  particles,  such  as  bits 
of  pulverized  stone ;  this  material  is  a  natural  con- 
sequence of  the  wear  and  tear  of  roads,  and  the  more 
general  disintegration  of  the  rocks  through  natural 
agencies.  But  beside  this  purely  inorganic  or  mineral 
matter,  the  microscope  reveals  many  organic  particles. 
Mingled  with  the  structureless  mineral  particles  are 
the  siliceous  shells  of  diatoms  ;  also  spores  of  many 
of  the  lower  plants  ;  fragments  of  straw  and  hay, — 
these  often  partly  digested,  proving  that  they  must 
have  traversed  the  alimentary  tract  of  some  herbivorous 
animal ; — grains  of  starch  ;  scales  from  the  wings  of 
butterflies  and  moths;  hairs  of  animals,  and  soft 
down  from  birds ;  and  bits  of  cotton,  wool,   and  silk. 

Living1  Organisms  in  Dust.— in  addition  to  this 

varied  assortment  of  inanimate  matter,  the  microscope 
reveals  the  presence  of  many  living  organisms,  whose 
minuteness  is  almost  beyond  description.  Many  of 
these  are  comparatively  innocuous,  though  some  have 
the  power  of  producing  specific  diseases,  provided  they 
are  taken  into  the  system,  and  find  there  the  nutri- 
ment necessary  to  their  being.  Such  germs  thrive 
within  the  body  chiefly  upon  the  products  of  deterior- 
ated tissue;  a  healthy  system  has  power  to  resist  the 
attacks  of  many  noxious  germs  by  refusing  to  afford 
them  requisite  nourishment.  The  person  who  has 
ignored  God's  law  of  health,  and  who  has  weakened 
his  body  through  injurious  excesses,  has  little  means 
of  defeuce   against   the   invading  hosts  of   contagious 


DUST    IN    THE    AIU.  8i 

germs.  Temperance  in  all  proper  indulgences,  and 
rectitude  in  all  the  duties  of  life,  will  combine  their 
unconquerable  forces  against  the  deadly  foe. 

Household  Dust. — Much  of  the  outdoor  dust  finds 
its  way  into  the  house,  and  there  augments  the  ills 
resulting  from  the  presence  of  household  dust  proper. 
The  oft -quoted  illustration  is  conclusive  proof  that  dust 
pervades  our  homes — notice  the  path  of  a  sunbeam 
within  a  partially  darkened  room ;  along  the  line  of 
light  innumerable  "gay  motes  "  appear,  rising,  sink- 
ing, with  ceaseless  motion,  all  made  plain  to  our  gaze 
by  that  efficient  analyist,  the  solar  beam.  Professor 
Tyndall  has  employed  the  electric  arc  instead  of  sun 
light  in  numerous  investigations,  and  has  clearly 
shown  that  the  air  in  all  places  near  the  earth's  sur- 
face is  heavily  dust -laden.  The  dust  of  rooms  com- 
prise all  the  ingredients  of  street  dust,  and  in  addition 
many  other  particles  arising  from  household  wear  and 
tear  and  the  varied  domestic  operations.  Common 
among  these  are  fibres  of  many  kinds  from  the  carpets 
and  draperies  of  rooms ;  crystals  of  salt ;  finely 
divided  carbon  as  soot,  lampblack,  and  coal-dust;  bits 
of  hair  and  wool ;  and  epithelial  scales  from  the  skin 
and  lungs  of  the  inmates.  Of  these,  the  last  named, 
including  all  organic  particles*  arising  from  the  bodies 
of  living  beings,  are  most  to  be  feared.     Such  organic 


*  Dr.  Louis  Parkes  says  of  household  dust:  "It  is  thus  seeu  to 
consist  largely  of  organic  refuse,  often  more  or  less  putrescent, 
and  its  presence  in  the  air  assists  in  the  production  of  the  low 
state  of  health  so  common  to  the  occupants  of  dirty,  overcrowded 
houses." 


88  DOMESTIC    SCIENCE. 

dust,  if  arising  from  the  bodies  of  persons  suffering 
from  infectious  diseases,  may  become  the  medium 
of  deadly  contagion. 

Dust-traps  in  Houses.— It  is,  of  course,  impos- 
sible to  prevent  the  entrance  and  formation  of  dust 
within  our  homes ;  the  necessary  wear  of  domestic 
operations  will  constantly  give  rise  to  detached  parti- 
cles ;  we  can  scarcely  hope  to  find  a  dustless  house. 
Our  efforts  would  be  most  wisely  directed  if  applied 
toward  the  prevention  of  undue  accumulations  of  the 
dust,  and  to  averting,  as  best  we  can,  the  ill  effects  of 
its  putrefactive  changes.  Many  rooms  are,  from  their 
construction,  veritable  dust-traps.  Uneven  wall  sur- 
faces, projecting  door  and  window  frames,  cornices, 
ceiling  and  wall  mouldings,  all  prove  effective  in  en- 
trapping dust  particles  and  holding  the  same  secure 
from  the  broom  and  duster  of  the  most  energetic 
house -maid.  The  floors  are  no  less  instrumental  in 
this  respect ;  crevices  between  the  boards  hold 
immense  quantities  of  dust ;  heavy  and  immovable 
furniture  renders  a  thorough  and  frequent  cleansing 
scarcely  possible  ;  but  beyond  all  these,  carpets  stand 
forth  as  the  chief  of  dust -catchers. 

Carpets  and  Curtains  as  Dust  Holders.  —The 

custom  of  covering  every  floor  with  woven  carpets, 
which  are  removed  only  at  intervals  of  months,  is  a 
deplorable  one.  Investigation  by  several  English 
physicians  has  done  much  to  prove  this  fact,  and 
there  are  today  many  eminent  medical  practitioners 
who  decline  to  undertake  cases  of  illness  if  the 
patients  are  kept  in  carpeted  rooms.   Close  and  polished 


DUST    IX    THE    AIR.  89 

or  oiled  floors  are  easily  cleaned ;  if  carpets  are  used 
at  all  they  should  be  but  lightly  fastened.  Indian 
matting  has  been  recommended  ;  this  material  is  but 
slightly  absorbent,  and  admits  of  ready  cleansing. 
Oil  cloth  and  linoleum  may  be  used  in  dry  situations ; 
if  the  floors  are  exposed  to  dampness,  however,  the 
use  of  such  will  favor  the  development  of  "rot"  in 
the  wood. 

Curtains  of  thick  fabrics,  heavy  draperies,  wall 
hangings,  lambrequins,  and  the  like,  all  serve  to  gather 
and  conceal  dust.  If  such  decorations  are  used  at  all 
they  should  be  of  light  material,  and  be  so  arranged  as 
to  admit  of  ready  removal  and  frequent  cleansing. 

Poisonous    Wall    Papers. — Rough  or  "flock" 

wall  papers  hold  large  quantities  of  dust,  and  some 
such  papers  give  off  particles  of  pigment  from  their 
own  surfaces.  This  condition  is  especially  undesira- 
ble if  the  loosely  applied  coloring  matters  of  the  paper 
are  of  a  poisonous  nature.  Much  has  been  written 
and  said  regarding  the  presence  of  arsenic  in  wall 
papers,  and  the  deadly  effects  of  the  poison  upon  the 
inmates  of  rooms  ornamented  with  such  papers. 
Doubtless,  the  use  of  arsenical  wall  paper  is  a  source 
of  serious  danger,  and  has  produced  even  fatal  results, 
but  papers  of  this  sort  are  far  less  common  than  has 
been  generally   supposed.*     The   writer  has  collected 

*  Arsenic  and  various  other  poisonous  matters  are  used  in 
coloring  many  kinds  of  paper  besides  that  designed  for  wall 
decoration.  Even  the  tinted  tissue  paper  used  for  the  instruction 
and  entertainment  of  children  in  kindergartens,  is  contami- 
nated with  poisonous  colors,  and  cases  of  serious  injury  have  re- 
sulted from  the  children's  habit  of  chewing  such  paper.     It  may 


90  DOMESTIC    SCIENCE. 

from  the  supply  stores  of  Salt  Lake  City,  and  has 
analyzed  127  specimens  of  wall  papers,  of  as  many 
colors  and  kinds  as  could  be  found  ;  and  in  only  four 
of  them  was  arsenic  present  at  all.  The  worst  of  these 
was  a  bright  green  with  gilt  markings  ;  this  contained 
per  square  foot  between  7  and  8  grains  of  metallic 
arsenic,  corresponding  to  nearly  10  grains  of  white 
arsenic.  The  use  of  such  a  paper  on  the  walls  of 
dwelling  rooms  would  be  a  source  of  great  danger. 

Arsenical  Poisoning1  from  Wall  Paper.— 
Parkes  reports  the  presence  of  arsenic  in  wall  papers 
in  quantities  varying  from  less  than  a  grain  to  even  60 
grains  per  square  foot.  The  same  authority  has  clas- 
sified the  principal  symptoms  of  arsenical  poisoning 
from  such  cause,  among  which  the  following  are 
prominent: — cough  associated  with  nausea,  diarrhoea, 
colic  pains  and  cramps,  dryness  of  mouth  and  throat 
with  intense  thirst,  severe  lachrymation,  distress- 
ing headache,  and  a  marked  debility  of  the  whole 
system,  which,  in  extreme  cases,  leads  to  actual  par- 
alysis of  the  limbs  sometimes  followed  by  convulsions 
and  death. 

Arsenical  Pigments. — Green  papers  are  the  ones 
most  likely  to  contain  arsenic,  though  the  poison  has 
been  found  in  reds,  browns,  and  greys.  The  arsenical 
compound  most  used  as  a  pigment  is   the  arsenite  of 


be  argued  that  paper  should  not  be  chewed;  this  is  true,  but 
many  children  will  try  their  teeth  on  everything  that  they  can 
get  into  their  mouths.  If  paper  contains  poisonous  pigments,  as 
Dr.  Youmans  has  said  with  a  kind  of  grim  humor,  "  such  deadly 
additions  utterly  spoil  the  paper  for  dietetical  purposes  either 
for  children  or  adults." 


DUST    IN    THE    AIR.  91 

copper,  commercially  known  as  "Scheele's  green," 
and  composed  of  arsenic  and  copper  in  a  combined 
form :  a  still  more  attractive  tint  is  produced  by 
the  aceto-arsenite  of  copper,  commonly  known  as 
"Schweinfurth  green."  Some  arsenical  papers  have 
the  coloring  matters  so  loosely  applied  that  the 
poisonous  particles  become  detached  from  the  paper 
and  permeate  the  room  as  fine  dust,  thus  finding  their 
way  into  the  lungs  of  the  inmates  through  the  process 
of  respiration.  In  other  cases,  especially  if  exposed 
to  dampness,  the  arsenical  compounds  rapidly  under- 
go chemical  changes  whereby  certain  gaseous  sub- 
stances are  generated,  the  chief  of  which  is  arseniur- 
etted  hydrogen — one  of  the  deadliest  of  poisons.* 

Characteristics  of  non-injurious  Wall  Paper. 

— A  competent  chemist  could  determine  by  very  sim- 
ple tests  whether  arsenic  is  or  is  not  present  in 
any  samples  of  paper  submitted  to  him  ;  if  the  means 
of  securing  such  a  test  be  not  at  hand  when  selections 
of  wall  paper  are  to  be  made,  it  would  be  safest  to 
choose  smooth  papers,  of  light  tints,  with  colors  that 
cannot  be  easily  rubbed  off.  Varnished  papers  are 
still  better;  their  colors  are  protected  beneath  a  toler- 
ably impervious  coat,  and  they  admit  of  washing. 


*Prof.  Johnson  of  Yale  says  that  Schweinfurth  green  when 
moist  gives  rise  to  the  formation  of  the  deadly  arseniuretted 
hydrogen  in  great  quantity.  He  has  given  a  detailed  account  of 
the  poisoning  of  a  whole  family  from  steeping  in  a  house,  the 
walls  of  which  were  hung  with  paper  of  this  dangerous  though 
beautiful  tint. 


92  DOMESTIC    SCIENCE. 

REVIEW. 

1.  What  is  dust  ? 

2.  What  effect  has  dust  upon  the  respiratory  passages  when 
inhaled  with  the  air  ? 

3.  What  do  you  know  of  the  unhealthfulness  of  certain  dust- 
inhaling  occupations  ? 

4.  Explain  Dr.  Ogle's  example  of  the  difference  between 
English  tin-miners  and  coal-miners  in  their  liability  to  lung 
troubles. 

5.  Give  instances  of  the  ill  effects  of  dust  in  the  case  of  fork 
and  tool  grinders. 

6.  Give  instances  of  the  effects  of  inhaling  poisonous  dust. 

7.  What  natural  barrier  against  the  entrance  of  dust  into 
the  lungs  has  the  Creator  provided  ? 

8.  Explain  the  action  of  the  cilia  in  the  bronchial  passages. 

9.  What  do  you  know  of  the  composition  of  out-door  dust  ? 

10.  Of  in-door  dust? 

11.  What  is  meant  by  organic  dust  ? 

12.  Name  the  principal  features  of  ordinary  dwellings  which 
favor  the  accumulation  of  dust. 

13.  Show  the  effect  of  carpets  as  holders  of  dust. 

14.  What   are  the    dangers  of   poisonous  pigments  in  wall 
papers  ? 

15.  What  do  you  know  of  the  occurrence  of  arsenical  pig- 
ments in  wall  papers  ? 

16 .  State  the  principal  properties  of  a  good  wall  paper. 


VENTILATION.  93 

CHAPTER  8. 

VENTILATION. 

Methods  of  Purifying-  the  Air  of   Rooms.— 

Having  convinced  ourselves  that  the  atmosphere  of  dwell- 
ings is  constantly  becoming  contaminated  through  addi- 
tions of  foul  and  poisonous  matters,  it  is  now  a  matter 
of  importance  and  interest  to  consider  the  principal  con- 
ditions attending  the  necessary  purification  of  the  air 
of  our  homes.  Two  general  modes  of  accomplishing 
this  have  been  attempted.  The  first  consists  in  re- 
moving the  vitiated  air,  and  admitting  in  its  place  a 
supply  of  fresh  air  from  without ;  this  is  commonly 
spoken  of  as  ventilation  proper.  In  the  second 
method,  chemical  means  are  employed  either  to  de- 
compose or  to  absorb  the  effete  matters  as  fast  as 
they  are  formed,  thus  maintaining  in  the  inclosed 
atmosphere  a  normal  state  of  purity  ;  this  is  known  as 
the  chemical  method.  Of  each  of  these  general  pro- 
cesses there  are  numerous  variations  as  to  details,  but 
the  chemical  method  has  had  but  limited  application  ; 
we  shall  therefore  consider  here  only  the  more  impor- 
tant methods  pertaining  to  ventilation  proper. 

Requirements  in  Efficient  Ventilation. — in 

devising  plans  for  the  ventilation  of  buildings,  we  are 
required  to  provide  for  the  removal  of  foul  air  as  fast 
as  formed,  and  for  its  replacement  by  pure  air  from 
without.  Attention  must  also  be  paid  to  the  tempera- 
ture of  the  entering  air,  for  experiment  and  observation 
have  shown  that  the  introduction  of  large  volumes  of 
cold  air  into  inhabited  rooms   may  prove  a   source  of 


94  DOMESTIC    SCIENCE. 

serious  injury.  Draughts  are  also  to  be  avoided,  else 
ill  effects  will  be  manifest  in  the  health  of  the  inmates. 
The  frequent  changing  of  the  air  of  an  apartment 
involves  the  moving  of  immense  masses  of  air,  and 
some  adequate  power  is  requisite  to  the  accomplish- 
ment of  this.  The  means  generally  employed  are 
dependent  (1)  upon  the  heating  of  the  contained 
atmosphere]  or  (2)  upon  mechanical  devices.  It  will 
be  well  to  consider  a  few  methods  from  each  of  these 
divisions. 

1. AIDS    TO    VENTILATION,   DEPENDING    UPON 

TEMPERATURE    CHANGES. 

Currents  Produced  by  Changes  of  Tempera- 
ture.— It  has  long  been  held  as  an  adage  that  "Heat 
causes  expansion,  and  cold  causes  contraction."  This 
is  applicable  to  gases  as  well  as  to  solids  and  liquids. 
When  a  mass  of  air  is  warmed,  its  particles  are  driven 
farther  apart,  thus  requiring  greater  space;  the  warmed 
air  is  specifically  lighter  than  the  cold,  and  consequently 
tends  to  rise  ;  this  movement  would  produce  an  empty 
space  or  partial  vacuum  below,  but  the  neighboring 
cold  air  promptly  rushes  in  to  fill  such  space.  All 
natural  movements  of  air,  which  we  call  winds,  depend 
directly  or  indirectly  upon  this  cause.  Any  means  of 
warming  and  expanding  the  air  in  one  place  will  cause 
there  a  rising  current,  and  the  space  below  will  soon 
be  filled  with  air  of  a  lower  temperature,  which  in  turn 
will  become  heated,  will  rise,  and  will  make  room  for 
other  air.  This  principle  may  be  well  observed  in  the 
entering  and  out-going  currents  of  a  room.  If  the 
temperature   of  the  inclosed  air  be   higher   than  that 


VENTILATION. 


95 


without,  when  the  door  is  opened  the  cold  air  will 
enter  in  a  current  near  the  floor,  while  the  warmed 
and  lighter  atmosphere  will  pass  out  by  a  counter  cur- 
rent at  the  top.  To  make  clear  the  course  of  these 
currents,  place  the  door  ajar,  (see  figure  34)  and  hold 
a  lighted  candle  in  the  opening,  first  near  the  top,  and 
then  below.     The  flame  will  be  driven  outward  at  the 

top,  and  toward  the  room 
at  the  bottom. 

On  warm  days  of  sum- 
mer, or  at  other  times  by 
artificially  cooling  the  in- 
closed air,  these  conditions 
of  relative  temperature 
within  and  without  may 
be  reversed  ;  then  the  outer 
air,  being  warmer  than  the 
inclosed,  would  enter  near 
the  top  of  the  door  open- 
ing, while  an  out -going 
current  would  be  estab- 
lished below. 

Opposite  Currents  Essential  to  Ventilation. 

— In  the  experiments  just  described,  the  width  of  the 
door  opening  permits  the  passage  of  currents  in  oppo- 
site directions  ;  with  more  contracted  spaces,  however, 
such  counter  currents  would  seriously  interfere  with 
and  perhaps  totally  neutralize  each  other.  To  illus- 
trate this,  provide  a  small  flame,  as  that  of  a  burning 
candle;  surround  this  with  a  good  sized  lamp  chim- 
ney, set  in  a  shallow  dish  containing  a  little  water  so 


Fig.  34. 

Currents  into  and   from  a 

warmed  room. 


96  DOMESTIC    SCIENCE. 

as  to  seal  the  bottom.  The  flame  soon  dies  out, 
smothered  by  the  non-supporting  products  of  the  com- 
bustion. Now  divide  the  chimney  passage  by  insert- 
ing a  strip  of  metal,  thin  wood,  or  even  of  stiff  paper, 
as  shown  in  figure  35,  the  candle  may  now  be  kept 
burning.  A  bit  of  smouldering  paper  held  at  the  top 
will  show  the  existence  of  upward  and  downward  cur- 
rents. This  clearly  demonstrates  the  necessity  of 
providing  separate  open- 
ings as  inlet  and  outlet 
for  the  air  of  any  room. 

Ventilation  in  Mines. 

— Upon  this  simple  prin- 
ciple the  ordinary  systems 
of  mine  ventilation  are 
founded.  In  the  case  of 
a  deep   mine,    it    is  usual 

r  ig.    oo. 

either  to  sink  two  shafts  or   ~        ..  .  ».         _.  .„ 

Opposite  currents  m  a  divided 

to    construct     a    bratticed  channel. 

single  shaft.  The  underground  passages  are  so  con- 
nected as  to  form  a  series  of  uninterrupted  channels 
from  one  shaft  to  the  other,  see  figure  36.  As  long  as 
the  air  remains  at  the  same  temperature  in  both,  no 
movement  will  take  place ;  but  by  placing  a  fire  at  the 
bottom  of  one  shaft,  the  air  column  above  becomes 
expanded,  and  rises;  this  upward  movement  is  bal- 
anced by  a  corresponding  downward  current  through 
the  other  shaft.  By  such  means  effective  ventilation  is 
maintained. 

Lyman'S  VentilatOP.— A  principle  exactly  oppo- 
site to  that  of  creating   upward    currents  by  means  of 


VENTILATION. 


97 


heat  has  also  been  practically  applied.  This  consists 
in  causing  a  descending  current  by  cooling  the  air 
above.     Upon  this  principle  Lyman's  ventilator  (figure 


Upcast  and  downcast  currents  in  a  mine. 

37)  is  constructed.  This  device  consists  of  a  box 
containing  ice  (a)  ;  the  bottom  (6)  is  perforated,  and 
a  gutter  and  waste  pipe  (c)  are  arranged  below,  to 
catch  the  water  from  the  melting  ice ;  a  large  flue  (d) 
conducts  the  cold  descending  air  into   the  rooms ;   an 


98 


DOMESTIC    SCIENCE. 


upper  box  (e)  usually  made  of  wire,  contains  charcoal, 
which  serves  to  purify  the  entering  air  and  also  to  re- 
tard the  melting  of  the  ice.* 

Currents  in  Rooms. — Even  within  closed  rooms, 
moving  currents  with  consequent  draughts  are  frequent. 
During  cold  weather  the  windows  are  considerably 
colder  than  the  thicker  walls,   consequently  the  inside 

air  in  contact  with  the  cold 
glass  becomes  chilled  and 
falls ;  while  a  warmed 
current  from  other  parts 
of  the  room  sets  in  to  fill 
the  space  vacated  by  the 
descending  cold  air.  A 
person  sitting  by  a  win- 
dow under  such  circum- 
stances would  be  entirely 
enveloped  in  the  falling 
cloud  of  cold  air,  with 
great  detriment  to  his 
health.  To  lessen  this 
danger,  builders  now  plan 
double  icindovjs  consisting 
of  an  outer  and  an  inner 
sash,  with  a  few  inches 
F-     37  space  between.       The  air 

Lyman's  ventilator.  within  this  space  serves  as 


*Toumanssays  of  this  ventilator:  "This  arrangement  on  a 
small  scale  has  been  mounted  on  secretaries,  to  secure  a  cool  and 
refreshing  air  while  writing;  over  beds  to  cool  the  air  while 
sleeping;  and  over  cradles  to  furnish  pure  air  for  sick  chil- 
dren." 


VENTILATION.  9  9 

a  non-conducting  wall  separating  the  outer  cold  at- 
mosphere from  the  warmer  air  of  the  room.  By 
holding  a  candle  flame  near  the  windows,  and  alongside 
the  walls,  the  presence  of  complicated  currents  within 
the  room  will  be  at  once  revealed.  Most  of  the  sim- 
plest methods  of  ventilation  are  associated  with  the 
means  of  warming  the  apartments;  indeed  the  sub- 
jects of  ventilation  and  warming  are  so  closely  related 
that  to  consider  them  independently  of  each  other 
would  be  almost  impossible. 

Fires  as  Aids  to  Ventilation. — A  good  fire  in  an 

open  grate  necessitates  an  ample  chimney  draught;  the 
rising  current  within  the  flue  exerts  a  powerful  aspir- 
ating effect,  which  results  in  the  ready  removal  of  air 
from  the  room.  A  corresponding  quantity  of  outer 
air  must  enter,  to  replace  that  which  has  been  taken 
away.  This  incoming  air  causes  a  powerful  current 
through  the  room  toward  the  grate ;  indeed,  in  the 
case  of  the  wide  open  grates  of  olden  times,  the 
draught  was  so  strong  that  our  worthy  ancestors 
found  it  necessary  to  provide  specially  constructed 
seats,  called  settles,  with  high,  close  backs,  for  use 
before  their  roaring  fires.  In  comparison  with  these 
huge  fire  places,  capable  of  admitting  the  Yule  logs 
without  difficulty,  the  open  grates  of  modern  times 
seem  very  much  contracted ;  the  space  above  the  fire 
bars, — and  this  largely  determines  the  aspirating 
power  of  the  grate, — being  now  reduced  to  the  small- 
est possible  dimensions.  Many  forms  of  ventilator  - 
stoves  have  of  late  appeared  for  sale.  Such  a  stove  is 
constructed    with  a  double  casing ;  air  enters  below, 


100 


DOMESTIC    SCIENCE. 


and  after  becoming  warmed  it  escapes  into  the  room 
through  a  perforated  top.  This  subject  of  house 
warming  will  receive  attention  in  a  subsequent  chapter, 
(chap.  12.) 

Chimneys  and  Double  Flues.— The  aspirating 

effect  of  a  chimney  increases  in  proportion  to  the 
energy  of  the  fire ;  though  observation  has  proved 
that  a  decided  draught  is  noticeable  in  chimneys  even 
when  no  fire  is  in  the  grate.  If  a  chimney  be  con- 
structed with  a  double  flue,  one  division  may  be  used 
specially  as  a  ventilating  shaft ;  the  air  within  it,  being 
warmed  through  proximity  to  the  heating  flue,,  will 
rise  with  vigor.      An   objection   to   the   use  of  double 

flues  has  been  found  in  the 
fact  that,  if  of  improper 
construction,  or  if  there  be 
no  adequate  inlet  for  air  to 
the  apartment,  they  are  apt 
to  permit  downward  cur- 
rents, and  thus  to  draw  in- 
to the  room  smoke  from  the 
fire  flue. 

Flue  Registers.  —  The 

apertures  that  lead  from  the 
room  into  the  flue  are  usu- 
ally guarded  by  adjustable 
registers,  the  commonest 
form  of  which  consists  of 
an  iron  grating  and  a  mov- 
able back,  so  arranged  that 
the  passage  may  be  opened 


Fig.  38. 
Gillis  system  of   ventilating. 


VENTILATION.  101 

or  closed  at  pleasure.  The  efficiency  of  such  a  register 
may  be  greatly  increased  by  attaching  to  the  inside  of 
the  bars  a  flap  of  thin  oil  cloth  or  of  oiled  silk ;  this 
will  yield  to  pressure  from  the  room  toward  the  chim- 
ney, but  the  least  impulse  in  the  opposite  direction 
will  push  the  curtain  into  close  contact  with  the  inside 
of  the  register,  thus  preventing  the  entrance  of  back 
currents  into  the  room.  Perhaps  the  best  contrivance 
of  the  kind  is  the  Arnott  valve,  which  consists  of  a 
movable  door  of  metal,  set  in  the  chimney  aperture, 
and  so  delicately  adjusted  as  to  yield  to  the  slightest 
current  toward  the  chimney,  and  to  close  firmly  and 
easily  when  pressed  in  an  opposite  direction. 

Ventilation  by    Steam   Warming-.  —  For  the 

ventilation  of  large  buildings,  many  devices  depending 
upon  the  expansion  of  air  by  warming  have  been  pro- 
posed. A  very  efficient  method  is  known  as  the  Gillis 
system ;  this,  however,  can  be  used  only  in  steam- 
warmed  buildings.  As  is  shown  in  figure  38,  a  large 
shaft  extends  from  the  lowest  floor  upward  through  the 
roof.  Up  the  center  of  this  shaft  a  steam  pipe  is  carried 
from  the  boiler  A.  In  each  room,  two  openings,  one 
at  the  top  and  the  other  near  the  floor,  communicate 
with  the  shaft ;  these  apertures  are  provided  with 
registers  and  automatic  valves.  The  heat  of  the  steam 
pipe  causes  a  powerfu[  upward  current,  by  which  air 
is  drawn  from  the  rooms.  Steam  radiators  R,  for 
warming  the  rooms,  are  supplied  on  each  floor. 

2. MECHANICAL    AIDS    TO    VENTILATION. 

Currents   from  Fans. — Many  forms   of  air-pro- 


102 


DOMESTIC    SCIENCE. 


pellers  have  been  proposed  for  purposes  of  ventilation. 
Most  of  them  possess*  some  merit,  and   some  of  them 

rank  among  the  most 
efficient  of  ventilators. 
The  exhaust  fan  (figure 
39)  seems  to  be  a  fav- 
orite device.  Dr.  Mott 
speaking  of  the  Black- 
burn fan,  one  of  the 
most  efficient  kinds, 
states  that  a  single  48 
inch  fan,  if  made  to 
run  at  the  rate  of  500 
to  600  revolutions  per 
minute,  will  carry  off 
30,000  cubic  feet  of 
air  per  minute.  Large  fans,  for  the  ventilation  of 
buildings  are  usually  operated  by  steam  or  water 
power ;  electric  dynamos  however  may  be  used 
as  a  source  of  power.  For  producing  air  currents  in 
small  apartments,  small  portable  fans  set  on  ornamented 
stands,  and  operated  by  primary  currents  from  local 
electric  batteries,  are  now  in  common  use.  Such  fans 
may  be  operated  on  tables,  and  desks,  and  over  sleep- 
ing couches. 

Revolving  cowls  on  chimney  tops,  if  properly  con- 
structed, serve  to  increase  the  aspirating  effects  of 
chimney  flues. 

Pipes  as  Inlets  fOP  AiP. — Thus  far   our  attention 


Fig.  39. 
Exhaust  fan. 


VENTILATION. 


103 


has  been  applied  to  methods  for  removing  the  foul  air 
from  rooms  ;  adequate  means  for'introducing  a  supply 
of  fresh  air  are  also  to  be  considered.  Many  common 
forms  of  inlets  are  objectionable  because  of  the  injur- 
ious draughts  to  which  they  give  rise.  In  the  ventila- 
tion of  large  buildings,  pipes  are  often  employed  for 
conveying  air  to  the  interior ;  these  can  be  easily  oper- 
ated with  good  results ;  but  in  small  dwellings,  win- 
dows and  transoms  are  usually  relied  upon  for  admit- 
ting air.  Where  inlet  pipes  are  used,  however,  a  great 
advantage  is  possessed  in  the  ease  with  which  the  in- 
coming air  may  be 
warmed.  The  pipes  may 
be  passed  through  a  heat- 
ing box  connected  with 
the  furnace ;  and  if  the 
air  thus  warmed  be 
found  deficient  in  mois- 
ture, evaporating  pans 
of  water  may  be  placed 
in  the  course  of  the 
stream. 

Window  Currents, 
Ordinary  and  Deflect- 
ed.—  By  opening  the 
upper  sash  of  a  window, 
a  strong  entering  cur 
rent  may  be  established. 
The  cold  air,  however,  will  fall  rapidly,  without  dif- 
fusing itself  sufficiently  throughout  the  room.    If  there 


Fig.  40. 

Entering  current  of  air  deflected 

toward  ceiling. 


104 


DOMESTIC     SCIENCE. 


be  a  fire  in  the  room,  this  current  of  cold  air  will  con- 
tinue its  course  to  the 
grate,  and  thus  be 
speedily  taken  from  the 
room,  having  served 
but  little  the  purposes 
of  ventilation.  It  has 
been  proved  to  be  ad- 
vantageous to  place  a 
board  at  an  angle  on 
the  upper  part  of  the 
sash,  so  as  to  deflect 
the  entering  current  to- 
ward the  ceiling  (see 
figure  40.) 

On    the   same    prin- 
Pig.  4i,  ciple,  the   efficiency   of 

Transom  hinged  so  as  to  deflect  air  transoms  may  be  greatly 
currents  toward  ceiling.  .  ,      ■  , 

increased  by  hinging 
them  at  the  bottom,  so  that  they  may  be  set  obliquely 
toward  the  ceiling,  as  in  figure  41. 

Currents  Between  Window  Sashes. — With  or- 
dinary windows  it  is  a  good  plan,  and  one  that  is 
widely  practiced,  to  raise  the  lower  sash,  and  place 
beneath  it  a  strip  of  board  from  four  to  six  inches 
wide  and  of  length  sufficient  to  extend  across  the  win- 
dow opening,  see  figure  4  2.  This  leaves  a  space  be- 
tween the  sashes,  through  which  air  will  enter  the 
room,  the  current  being  directed  upward.  Before 
falling,  the  fresh  air  will  have  been  diffused. 


VENTILATION. 


105 


Fig.  42. 

Currents  entering  between  window 

sashes. 


Diffusing"  the  In- 
coming' Air.—  it  is 

possible  to  utilize  win- 
dows both  as  inlet  and 
outlet  air  passages. 
For  breaking  up  the 
entering  current  so  as 
to  aid  in  its  diffusion, 
sheets  of  finely  perfor- 
ated metal  may  be  in- 
serted in  the  upper  sash 
in  place  of  the  ordi- 
nary glass  panes,  or 
gratings  with  inclined 
slots  may  be  used  to 
advantage. 


review. 

1.  What  is  ventilation  ? 

2.  State    the    two  general  modes  of    purifying  the  air  of 
rooms  ? 

3.  What  powers  are  usually  employed  in  changing  the  air  of 
rooms  ? 

4.  Show  the  value  of  temperature  changes  in  moving  the  air 
of  apartments. 

5.  Illustrate  the  entering  and  out-going  currents  of  a  room 
with  the  door  placed  ajar. 

6.  Fully  explain  the  need  of  double  passages  in  the  case  of  a 
candle  burning  within  a  lamp  chimney. 

7.  How  is  this  principle  applied  to  the  ventilation  of  mines  ? 

8.  How  may  descending    currents  of   air  be  produced    by 
cooling  ? 

3 


106  DOMESTIC    SCIENCE. 

9.    Describe  Lyman's  ventilator. 

10.  What  is  the  effect  of  double  windows  in  maintaining  an 
equal  temperature  in  rooms  ? 

11.  What  is  the  value  of  fires  in  open  grates  in  providing 
ventilation  ? 

12.  What  do  you  know  of  the  value  of  double  flues  in  heating 
and  ventilating  rooms  ? 

13.  Explain  the  operation  of  the  Arnott  valve  in  ventilating 
flues. 

14.  Explain  the  Gillis  system  of  ventilation. 

15.  Name  the  principal  mechanical  aids  in  ventilation. 

16.  Explain  the  value  of  the  exhaust  fan  in  ventilating. 

17.  State  the  essential  features  of  a  good  inlet  for  air  to  a 
room. 

18.  How  may  the  incoming  air  be  properly  deflected  upward  ? 

19.  Show  the  value  of  windows  as  inlets  for  air. 

20.  Explain  the  use  of  transoms  as  inlets. 


SOME    PROPERTIES    OF    HEAT.  107 

CHAPTER   9. 

SOME    PROPERTIES    OF    HEAT. 

The  close  relation  existing  between  the  processes  of 
ventilation  and  those  of  house  warming  has  been 
already  mentioned.  Incidental  reference  has  been 
made  to  some  methods  of  domestic  warming,  but  be- 
fore attempting  any  detailed  consideration  of  the  sub- 
ject, it  will  be  well  to  turn  attention  to  some  of  the 
simple  principles  by  which  the  form  of  energy  known 
as  heat  is  controlled.  ' 

Nature  Of  Heat. — Heat  is  that  force  which,  when 
operating  upon  the  nerves  of  the  living  body,  pro- 
duces the  sensations  of  warmth  and  cold.  The  true 
nature  of  heat,  as  indeed  of  all  other  forms  of  force, 
is  very  imperfectly  understood  by  mankind  ;  but  it  is 
a  general  belief  among  experimenters  and  thinking 
men,  that  heat  in  a  body  is  the  manifestation  of 
motion  among  the  particles.  The  plausibility  of  this 
view  is  strengthened  by  the  fact  that  motion  may  be 
transformed  into  heat ;  and  conversely,  heat  may  be 
made  to  originate  motion,  with  but  little  unaccounted 
loss  of  energy  in  either  case.  There  is  good  reason  for 
believing  that  as  a  body  grows  warm  its  particles  are 
made  to  move,  within  certain  limits,  with  increasing 
speed,  and  that  at  the  same  time  they  are  driven  farther 
apart,  and  thus  the  size  of  the  body  is  increased.  In 
the  case  of  a  fusible  solid,  iron  for  example,  the 
temperature  may  be  raised  till  the  particles  arc  so  far 
separated  that  their  cohesion  is  greatly  diminished,  and 


108 


DOMESTIC    SCIENCE. 


the  liquid  state  results.  If  the  molten  material  be 
still  more  highly  heated,  the  gaseous  condition  may  be 
reached,  the  vapor  of  iron  thus  produced  correspond- 
ing in  physical  state  to  steam. 

Expansion  of    Solids  by  Heat. — The  general 

effect  of  heat  when  applied  to 
bodies  is  to  cause  expansion. 
This  is  true  of  solids,  liquids, 
and  gases.  Figure  43  illus- 
trates a  common  experiment 
upon  this  point.  A  ring  and 
a  ball  of  metal  are  provided ; 
they  are  of  such  relative  sizes 
that  the  ball  while  cold  will 
readily  pass  through  the  ring. 
By  heating  the  ball,  however, 
it  becomes  enlarged,  and  will 
no  longer  pass  through  the 
ring.  The  blacksmith  applies  a  practical  knowledge 
of  this  principle  -when  he  heats  the  tires  of  wheels 
before  fitting  them  about  the  felloes;  the  iron,  he 
knows,  will  contract  in  cooling  and  thus  the  tires  will 
fit  the  more  tightly. 

The  Pyrometer. — The  apparatus  shown  in  figure 
44  serves  to  demonstrate  very  plainly  the  expansion  of 
a  solid  by  heat.  A  bar  of  metal  is  supported  on  two 
pillars,  one  end  of  the  bar  is  firmly  held  by  a  screw  ; 
the  other  end,  which  is  free  to  move,  rests  lightly 
against  a  lever,  and  this  is  attached  to  a  pointer  which 
moves  over  a  graduated  arc.  As  the  bar  is  heated  by 
lamps  placed  beneath,  it  elongates  and  thus  moves  the 


Fig.  43. 
Ball  enlarged  by  heat. 


SOME    PROPERTIES    OF    HEAT.  109 

index  finger.  An  instrument  of  this  kind  is  called  a 
"pyrometer/'  the  word  meaning  a  measurer  of  heat 
or  of  fire.       Pyrometers  are  used  to  measure  very  high 


Fig.  44. 
Pyrometer. 

temperatures;   such  as  the  heat  of    a  furnace.     Ordi- 
nary thermometers  would  be  destroyed  by  such   great 
heat. 
Force  Exerted    by    Expanding5  Solids. — The 

force  exerted  by  the  expansion  of  solids  through  in- 
creasing temperature,  is  enormous.  The  iron  rods 
and  cables  of  which  suspension  bridges  are  made, 
move  through  considerable  distances  in  the  course  of  a 
season's  range  of  temperature.*  A  difference  of  81° 
F.  between  summer  and  winter  temperatures  is  by  no 
means  uncommon  ;  yet  such  a  change  operating  on  a 
bar  of  wrought  iron  10  inches  long,  would  increase  its 
length  1-200  inch  ;  this  force  is  equivalent  to  a  strain 
of  50  tons.  It  has  been  shown  by  careful  trial,  that 
a  bar  of  iron  measuring  1  square  inch  in  cross-section, 
in  being  warmed  from   the  freezing  point   to  dull-red 

*Of  the  Brittania  bridge  an  observer  has  said,  "The  pon- 
derous iron  tubes  writhe  and  twist  like  huge  serpents  under 
the  varying  influence  of  the  solar  heat  The  span  of  the  tube  is 
depressed  only  a  quarter  of  an  inch  by  the  heaviest  train  of  ears, 
while  the  sun  lifts  it  two  and  a  half  inches." 


110  DOMESTIC    SCIENCE. 

heat,  will  elongate  about  6-1000  of  its  original  length. 
The  mechanical  strain  needed  to  stretch  such  a  bar  to 
this  extent  is  about  90  tons. 

Effect  of  Temperature  Changes  on  Pendu- 
lums.— Many  practical  illustrations  of  this  principle 
may  be  observed  in  household  operations.  The 
pendulum  rod  of  a  clock  elongates  during  warm 
weather  and  shortens  during  the  cold  season.  Now 
the  office  of  a  clock  pendulum  is  that  of  a  regulator 
to  the  time  piece  ;  by  its  swinging  it  controls  the  speed 
of  the  machinery.  Observation  proves  that  a  long 
pendulum  requires  a  greater  time  to  vibrate  than  does 
a  short  one.  In  warm  weather,  therefore,  the  pendu- 
lum is  apt  to  swing  more  slowly  and  thus  cause  the 
clock  to  fall  behind  time.  In  cold  weather,  on  the 
other  hand,  the  fast-moving  pendulum  causes  the 
clock  to  run  ahead  of  the  true  time.  These  irregu- 
larities may  be  in  some  degree  corrected  by  raising 
or  lowering  the  pendulum  "bob"  in  accordance  with  the 
prevailing  conditions  of  temperature. 

Some  pendulums  are  so  constructed  as  to  partially 
regulate  themselves;  these  are  known  as  compensa- 
tion pendulums,  the  simplest  of  which  is  the  grid- 
iron pendulum,  sketched  in  figure  45.  The  pendulum 
rod  consists  of  bars  of  two  different  metals,  usually  steel 
and  brass,  so  arranged  that  the  bars  of  one  material 
can  elongate  only  in  a  downward  direction,  they  being 
fixed  above ;  while  the  other  bars  can  expand  only  in 
an  upward  direction.  Thus  the  upward  and  the 
downward  expansion  may  be  made  to  compensate 
each  other. 


SOME  PROPERTIES  OF  HEAT. 


Ill 


;i,:;; :::,:::::,! 


Another  form  of  compensation  pendulum  is  the 
mercurial  bob  pendulum,  shown  in  figure  46.  In  this 
the  lower  part  of  the  pendulum  consists  of  a  frame- 
work or  box,  within 
which  are  set  a  number 
of  glass  vessels,  contain- 
ing mercury.  Two  such 
vessels  are  shown  in  the 
figure.  As  the  pendu- 
lum rod  elongates 
through  increasing  tem- 
perature, the  mercury 
in  the  open  vessels  also 
expands  and  consequent- 
ly rises.  These  opposite 
expansions  may  neutral- 
ize each  other's  effect, 
and  the  "center  of  oscil- 
lation," which  deter-  ^giiiiiji^«-;iii',iii;;ij 
mines  the  true  length  of 
the  pendulum,  may  re- 
main unchanged. 

Expansion  of 
Fluids  by  Heat.— Al- 
though we  observe  fewer 
illustrations  of    the   ex- 


Fig.  45. 


Fig  46. 


Gridiron  compen-  pansion    of     liquids     and   Me  rcurial  pen- 

sation pendulum.    _  -,       .-,      .    a  duluru  bob. 

v  gases  under  the  influence 

of  heat,  yet  careful  experiment  will  show  that  these 
bodies  too,  obey  the  general  law.  To  show  the  ex- 
pansion of  liquids  under  the  influence  of  heat,  take  a 


112 


DOMESTIC    SCIENCE. 


Fig.  47. 
Liquid  expanding  by  heat. 


glass  bulb  attached  to  a  stem,  or  a  small  glass  flask  as 
in  figure  4  7,  provided  with  a  tight-fitting  cork 
through  which  passes  an  open  tube;  fill  the  vessel  with 
water  and  gently  warm.      The  liquid  rises   in  the  tube 

under  the  expansive  in- 
fluence of  the  heat. 

To  demonstrate  the  ex- 
pansion of  gases,  take  a 
similar  bulb  or  flask, 
empty  and  dry ;  invert 
and  place  the  stem  in  a 
vessel  of  water  (see  figure 
48).  Grasp  the  bulb  in 
the  hand  ;  the  warmth  of 
the  flesh  will  cause  the  air 
within  to  expand  till  it  drives  the  water  from  the  hollow 
stem  and  escapes  in  bubbles  through  the  liquid  in  the 
tumbler.  Such  an  apparatus  is  called  an  "  air  ther- 
mometer."    Now  remove  the  hand  ;  as  the  air  cools  it 

tends  to  resume  its  former 
dimensions  ;  but  as  a  por- 
tion has  escaped,  a  cor- 
responding quantity  of 
water  enters  the  bulb. 

Thermometers,— 
their    Construction. — 

Upon  the  expansion  of 
liquids  by  heat  depends 
the  action  of  the  ordinary 
thermometer.      The  word 

Fig.  48. 

Gases  expanding  when  warmed,    is  derived  from  the  Greek 


SOME  PROPERTIES  OF  HEAT. 


113 


thermos,  heat,  and  metron,  measure,  therefore  a 
measurer  of  temperature.  As  commonly  constructed, 
it  consists  of  a  bulb  of  thin  glass  with  which  a  long 
hollow  stem  of  fine  caliber  is  continuous ;  this  is 
shown  in  figure  49.  A  quantity  of  liquid,  (usually 
mercury  or  alcohol)*  fills  the  bulb  and  extends  some 
distance  into  the  tube.  The  stem  is 
hermetically  sealed  at  the  top,  and  the 
space  above  the  fluid  is  a  vacuum,  the 
air  having  been  removed  therefrom  be- 
fore the  tube  was  sealed.  A  rise  of 
temperature  causes  the  liquid  within  the 
bulb  to  expand  ;  the  only  direction  in 
which  it  is  free  to  move  is  the  upward 
one  ;  the  liquid  therefore  rises.  A  cool- 
ing effect  will  result  in  a  contraction  of 
the  liquid,  and  a  consequent  fall  of  its 
level  within  the  tube.  Such  an  instru- 
ment will  reveal  the  fact  of  a  difference 
of  temperature ;  but  the  degree  of  dif- 
ference cannot  be  determined  till  the 
thermometer  is  graduated. 

The  Fahrenheit  Scale. — The  inventor  of  the  in- 
strument was  a  German  scientist,  one  Gabriel  Fahren- 


Fig.  49. 
Thermometer 
bulb  and  stem. 


^Mercury  (quicksilver)  is  usually  employed  in  thermometers 
As  this  liquid  freezes,  however,  at  about—  40°  F.  (i.  e.  40  degrees 
below  zero  on  the  Fahrenheit  scale)  a  mercury  thermometer  is 
useless  for  determining  temperatures  below  that  point.  For  low 
temperatures,  thermometers  containing  alcohol  are  used.  As 
alcohol  boils  at  about  175°  F.  such  a  thermometer  is  unavailable 
for  measuring  temperatures  higher  than  that. 


» ■  i  ■  i 


inn 


114 


DOMESTIC    SCIENCE. 


heit,  who  lived  in  the  early  part  of  the  last  century. 
He  set  his  thermometer  in  ice,  and  marked  upon  the 
tube  the  level  at  which  the  mercury  stood :  this  degree 
of  temperature  he  properly  called  the  "freezing  point." 
The  instrument  was  then  transferred  to  a  bath  of  boil- 
ing water,  and  the  level  at  which  the  mercury  then 
stood  was  marked  on  the  tube, 
and  the  temperature  was  named 
"boiling  point."  In  a  somewThat 
arbitrary  manner,  Fahrenheit  then 
divided  the  space  between  the 
marks  on  the  tube  into  180 
sections;  these  he  called  "de- 
grees." Fahrenheit  knew  that  ice 
was  not  the  coldest  thing  in  ex- 
istence ;  by  mixing  snow  or 
cracked  ice  and  salt  he  produced 
a  much  lower  temperature  ;  so  in 
a  mixture  of  this  kind  he  immersed 


f 

"   > 

• 

F. 

C. 

/gJL 

jjd    SO 

vwi 

iir»o 

90    [| 

ao~p 

W~3Q 

70    l| 

\Wzo 

to   1 

so  ]p 

1    70 

*°    1^ 

30    II 

|j    0 

Zo  II 

,o    I 

Ipg 

o    B 

pp* 

so     0 

ZO     § 

1   JO 

Fig.  50. 


the  mercury  was  marked  and  called 
"zero."    the    space    between  that 

TlaermometergraduatedP°int  and    the    feezing    point  was 
t»y  the  f.  and  the      divided  into   32  degrees.     On  the 
.sys  ems.  Fahrenheit    scale,     (indicated    by 

the  abbreviation  "F.")  therefore,  the  freezing  point  is 
32°  above  0°,  and  the  boiling  point  is  (180°  -j-  32°=) 
212°  above  0°.  With  a  tube  of  uniform  caliber,  the 
graduations  may  be  carried  above  and  below  these 
points.      This  scale  of  thermometric  readings,    though 


SOME    PROPERTrES    OF    HEAT.  115 

very  arbitrary  in  its  nature,  is  the  one  most  generally 
used  among  English  speaking  nations ;  though  for 
scientific  and  technical  purposes  another  system  has 
been  adopted. 

The  Celsius  op  Centigrade  Scale. — a  Swedish 

scientist  named  Celsius,  proposed  to  call  the  freezing 
point  0°,  and  the  boiling  point  100°,  the  space  on  the 
thermometer  stem  between  the  points  thus  indicated 
being  divided  into  100  equal  parts;  and  the  gradua- 
tion being  continued  both  above  and  below  these  fixed 
points.  The  Celsius  graduation  is  sometimes  called 
the  centigrade  scale;  it  is  indicated  by  the  ab- 
breviation "C."  Figure  50  shows  a  thermometer 
of  simple  construction,  with  scales  attached  after  both 
the  Fahrenheit  and  the  Celsius  (or  centigrade) 
sy.-tems.* 

Relation  Between  the  Two  Scales. — The  heat 

needed  to  raise  a  quantity  of  water  from  the  freezing 
point  to  the  boiling  temperature  will  cause  the  mercury 
in  a  thermometer  graduated  after  the  Fahrenheit  sys- 
tem to  rise  from  32°  to  212°,  or  through  a  space  of  180 
degrees  ;  and  the  same  heat  would  raise  the  mercury 
in  a  Celsius  thermometer  from  0°  to  100°,  or  through 
a  space  of  100  degrees.    It  will  be  seen  then  that: 


*  Another  thermometer  scale  is  that  devised  hy  Reaumur,  a 
French  philosopher.  On  the  Reaumur  scale  the  freezing  point  is 
called  0°,  and  the  boiling  point  80.°  Therefore  80  Reaumur  degrees 
correspond  to  100  Centigrade  degrees,  and  to  180  Fahrenheit  de- 
grees; and  80°  R.  =  100°  C,  =  212°  F.,  that  is,  the  boiling  point  of 
water.  In  the  same  way,  0°  R.  =  0°  O.  =  32°  F.,  that  is,  the  freezing 
point. 


110  DOMESTIC    SCIENCE. 

180  F.  degrees  correspond  to  100  C.  degrees. 

Then         9  F.  ';  "  "       5  C. 

1  F.  degree  corresponds   "    '°/<j   C.   degree. 
And  1  C.  "  "  "   9/6F. 

Now,  although  as  shown  above,  180  of  the  Fahren- 
heit degrees  correspond  to  100  of  the  Celsius  degrees, 
it  does  not  follow  that  the  180th  degree  above  0° 
F.  should  correspond  to  the  100th  degree  above  0°  C, 
because  the  0  of  the  Celsius  scale  marks  the  freezing 
point,  while  the  0  of  the  Fahrenheit  scale  is  3  2  Fahren- 
heit degrees  below  the  freezing  point.  An  allowance 
for  this  must  be  made  in  transforming  the  readings 
of  one  scale  into  terms  ot  the  other.  The  truth  of  the 
following  formulae  will  be  seen  without  difficulty  by 
the  thoughtful  student : 

F.    =  9/5  C.    -f   32. 
C.    =  5/9   (F.— 32). 

Utility  of  the  Thermometer. — The  thermome- 
ter is  an  instrument  of  great  utility,  and  it  certainly 
deserves  a  more  extended  service  than  is  commonly 
allowed  it  in  domestic  operations.  We  are  apt  to 
place  too  much  reliance  in  the  indications  of  our 
organs  of  sense  as  to  temperature,  and  these  indica- 
tions are  often  deceptive.* 


*The  old-time  demonstration  will  illustrate  the  point.  Provide 
three  bowls  or  basins  of  medium  size;  into  the  middle  one  put 
water  of  or  liuarx  temperature,  say  about  65  degrees  F. ;  into  one 
of  the  remaining  vessels  put  some  ice  water;  within  the  third  place 
water  as  hot  as  can  be  borne  without  injury  when  in  contact  with 


SOME    PKOPEKTIES    OF    HEAT. 


11 


Many  cheap  thermometers  are  inaccurately  gradu- 
ated; their  error,  however,  seldom  exceeds  2°.  For 
domestic  purposes,  a  thermometer  possessing  the  fol- 
lowing charac- 
teristics will  be 
found  most  gen- 
erally useful  : 

(1)  The  grad- 
uation markings 
should  be  on  the 
glass  stem  rather 
than  upon  an  at- 
tached scale. 

(2)  If  set  in 
a  frame  the  tube 
should  be  readily 
removable  that  it 
may  be  used  when 
so  needed,  to  de- 
termine the  temperature  of  liquids. 

(3)     The  graduations  should   extend  at   least  from 
0°  to   212°  F. 

The  Dial-face  Thermometer.— Figure  51  is  an 

illustration  of  a  thermometer  of  recent  production  now 


Fig.  51. 
Dial-face  thermometer. 


the  flesh.  Now  immerse  one  hand  in  the  hot  liquid,  the  other  in 
the  ice  water;  take  notice  of  the  sensations,  then  plunge  both 
hands  into  the  bowl  of  water  at  ordinary  temperature.  To  the 
hand  that  came  from  the  hot  water  this  seems  unendurably  cold; 
to  the  hand  just  taken  from  the  ice  water,  the  contents  of  the  mid- 
dle bowl  seem  to  be  intensely  hot.  Neither  of  these  sensations 
indicates  the  truth. 


118 


DOMESTIC    SCIKNCK. 


growing  in  use.  The  changes  in  temperature  are 
indicated  by  the  movements  of  an  indicating  finger  over 
a  dial  face  on  which  are  marked  in  bold  figures  the  de- 
grees. The  advantage  of  such  an 
instrument  is  that  its  indications 
can  be  read  from  a  considerable  dis- 
tance ;  whereas,  in  using  the  mer- 
curial thermometer  the  observer  must 
stand  very  near  the  instrument;  thus 
influencing  the  reading  by  the  warmth 
of  his  own  body.  The  essential  in- 
ternal parts  of  the  dial -face  thermom- 
eter are  shown  in  figure  52.  A 
curved  bar  of  metal,  (or  better,  a 
compound  bar  of  two  metals)  A  B  is 
firmly  held  at  or  near  one  end  A.  As 
the  bar  contracts  and  expands  under 
the  influence  of  changing  temperature,  the  free  end 
B  moves,  and  this  force  being  communicated  through 
the  rod  C  to  the  semi- circular  piece  D,  turns  the  axis 
F,  around  which  passes  a  silken  thread  E.  To  F  as 
an  axle  is  attached  the  indicating  finger,  which  moves 
in  front  of  the  graduated  face.  Such  an  instrument 
is  graduated  to  correspond  with  standard  mercurial 
thermometers. 


Essential  parts   of 
the  dial-face  ther- 
mometer. 


REVIEW. 

1.  Define  heat. 

2.  What  is  the  general  effect  of  heat  on  matter  ? 

3.  Describe  demonstrations  of   the  expansive  effect  of   heat 
on  solids. 


SOME    PROPERTIES    OF    HEAT.  119 

4.  Give  illustrations  of  the  great  force  exerted  by  expanding 
solids. 

5.  What  is  the  use  of  a  pendulum  in  a  clock  ? 

6.  Explain  the  effect  of  varying  temperature  on  the  regu- 
larity of  the  clock's  running. 

7.  Explain  the  gridiron  compensation  pendulum. 

8.  Explain  the  mercurial-bob  pendulum. 

9.  Describe  experiments  showing  the  expansion  of  liquids 
by  heat. 

10.  Illustrate  the  expansion  of  gases  by  heat. 

11.  What  is  a  thermometer  ? 

12.  Describe  the  mercurial  thermometer. 

13.  Explain  its  action. 

14.  Which  are  the  principal  scales,  according  to  which  ther- 
mometers are  graduated  ? 

15.  How  are  the  fixed  points  of  the  scale  determined  ? 

16.  Show  the  relation  between  the  Fahrenheit  and  the  Cen- 
tigrade scales. 

17.  Deduce  formula  for  transforming  the  readings  of  each  of 
these  scales  into  those  of  the  other  scale. 


120 


DOMESTIC    SCIENCE. 


CHAPTER     10. 

COMMUNICATION    OF    HEAT  ;    LATENT  AND    SPECIFIC  HEAT. 

Conduction  Of  Heat. — If  a  bar  of  iron  be  set 
with  one  end  in  a  fire,  after  a  very  short  time  the 
other  end  will  have  become  hot.  It  is  plain  that  in. 
this  case  the  heat  must  have  come  from  the  fire  :  it 
must  have  been  communicated  along  the  line  of  par- 
ticles from  one  end  of  the  bar  to  the  other.  To  be 
more  accurate  in  expression,  we  should  say  the  heat 
has  been  conducted  along  the  iron  :  in  consequence  of 
the  property  here  shown  the  metal  is  said  to  be  a  con- 
ductor of  heat,  and  this  process  of  heat-communication 
is  known  as  conduction. 

An  impressive  illustration  of  this  effect  may  be  pro- 


Fig.  53. 
Conduction  of  heat  in  a  bar  of  metal. 

duced  as  follows  : — Provide  a  thick  iron  or  copper 
wire,  about  a  foot  long  (see  figure  53),  by  means  of 
wax  attach  to  the  bar  at  equal  distances  a  number  of 
marbles  or  small  bullets.  Insert  one  end  of  the  bar  in 
a  flame:  one  by  one  the  balls  drop  as  the  wax 
becomes  softened,  showing  by  their  successive  falls 
the  invasion  of  the  particles  by  the  heat. 


COMMUNICATION    OF    HEAT.  121 

The  Conduetometer. — An  apparatus  designed  to 
demonstrate    the    relative    conductivity    of    different 

metals  is  shown  in  figure  54, 
it  consists  of  a  metallic  box, 
carrying  a  number  of  rods  of 
different  substances.  The 
free  ends  of  the  rods  are 
first  covered  with  wax  ;  the 
box  is  then   filled   with   hot 

Fig.  54 

Conduetometer.  water,     and     the     order    in 

which  the  wax  on  each  rod  liquifies  is  noted. 

Conductivity   of   some   Solids.— The  common 

metals  and  alloys  are  arranged  in    the  following  order 
with  respect  to  their  conducting  powers  : 

(1)  silver;  (6)  iron; 

(2)  copper;  (7)  lead; 

(3)  gold;  (8)  platinum; 

(4)  brass;  (9)  German  silver; 

(5)  tin;  (10)  bismuth. 

To  these  may  be  added  several   common   substances 
other  than  metals,  arranged  on  the  same  plan  : 

(11)  marble;  (17)  silk; 

(12)  porcelain;  (18)  charcoal; 

(13)  clay:  (19)  cotton; 

(14)  woods;  (20)  lampblack; 

(15)  fats;  (21)  fur.* 

(16)  snow; 


*Our  most  efficient  fabrics  for  clothing  are  poor  conductors  of 
heat.  A  coat  of  fur  or  of  woven  wool,  if  wrapped  about  a  living 
being  will  retain  the  bodily  heat:  if  wrapped  around  a  block  of 
ice  the  same  garment  keeps  the  ice  cold.  In  the  one  case  the 
wrapping  prevents  the  escape  of  heat  from  the  warmer  body  to 
the  cooler  air:  in  the  other  it  guards  the  ice  against  access  of 
warmth. 


L22 


DOMESTIC    SCIENCE. 


Fig.  55. 

Convection  of  heat  in  a  body 

of  liquid. 


Convection  of  Heat  in  Liquids.— Most  liquids 
are  poor  conductors  of  heat. 
This  statement  may  seem 
strange  when  we  think  of 
the  fact  that  heat  seems  to 
be  uniformly  distributed 
throughout  liquid  masses. 
Such  distribution  of  heat  is 
effected  by  other  means 
than  by  conduction  as  above 
described.  AVhen  liquid 
particles  are  heated  they 
become  specifically  light, 
and  consequently  they 
rise,  thus  making  room 
for  colder  particles,  which 
in  turn  become  warmed 
and  rise.  The  course  of  the 
rising  currents  of  warm 
water  and  the  descending 
streams  of  cold  may  be 
seen  by  warming  a  flask 
or  beaker  containing  wa- 
ter, to  which  a  small  quan- 
tity of  sawdust  or  other 
finely  divided,  opaque 
matter  has  been  added ; 
(see  figure  55.)  Such  a 
mode  of  diffusing  heat  by 


-^Cz 


^^ 


Fig  56. 

Inability  of  liquids  to  conduct 

heat  in  a  downward  direction. 


the  successive  warming  of  separate  particles,  is  known 
as  convection. 


COMMUNICATION    OF    HEAT.  123 

Poor  Conductivity  of  Water. — If  water  were  a 
good  conductor  of  heat  it  would  transmit  heat  as  well  in 
a  downward  as  in  an  upward  direction.  The  inability 
of  the  liquid  to  do  this  may  be  thus  shown  :  A  funnel 
(figure  5(3)  with  a  wide  throat  is  fitted  with  an  "air 
thermometer"  passing  through  its  neck  and  dipping 
into  a  vessel  of  water  below.*  Water  is  poured  into 
the  funnel  till  the  thermometer  bulb  is  covered ;  a 
little  ether  is  then  poured  upon  the  water  and  ignited. 
Though  the  flame  be  within  half  an  inch  of  the  bulb, 
so  little  heat  is  conducted  downward  as  scarcely  to 
cause  an  expansion  within  the  bulb. 

Radiation  of  Heat. — There  is  a  third  method 
by  which  heat  is  diffused,  as  may  be  shown  by 
holding  the  hand  in  front  of  a  fire.  The  flesh  soon 
becomes  warmed;  not  by  conduction,  for  between 
the  hand  and  the  fire  there  is  no  material  connection, 
except  the  air,  and  air  like  all  gases,  possesses  but 
slight  conductivity ;  neither  is  the  hand  warmed  by 
convection,  for  warm  convection  currents  are  ascend- 
ing ones.  It  is  plain  that  the  heat  must  have  pene- 
trated the  intervening  air ;  must  have  traveled  from 
the  fire  to  the  flesh.  Such  mode  of  heat  communica- 
tion is  known  as  radiation,  and  the  heat  so  trans- 
mitted is  called  radiant  heat.  Radiant  heat  passes 
outward  from  its  source,  along  straight  lines  in  all 
directions  ;  the  heat  rays  fall  upon  objects  in  their 
course  and  warm  them,  without,  however,  greatly  rais- 
ing the  temperature  of  the  intervening  air.   Radiant  heat 

*See  figure  AS  as  an  illustration  of  the  air  thermometer." 


124  DOMESTIC    SCIENCE. 

may  be  transmitted  in  a  vacuum,  thus  proving  its  in- 
dependence of  air  as  a  medium  of  conveyance.  The 
laws  of  its  motion  are  similar  to  those  of  light;  it 
comes  to  us  from  the  sun  associated  with  light,  both 
traveling  at  the  rate  of  185,000  miles  per  second. 
The  intensity  of  radiant  heat  diminishes  as  the  square 
of  the  distance  from  its  source  increases ;  therefore  a 
person  sitting  within  two  feet  of  a  fire  would  receive 
four  times  as  much  radiant  heat  as  would  fall  upon  a 
second  person  situated  four  feet  from  the  fire. 

HIDDEN    HEAT  :    LATENT    AND    SPECIFIC. 

Nature  of  Latent  Heat. — In  speaking  of  the 
measurement  of  heat,  we  have  thus  far  dealt  only 
with  thermometric  indications ;  yet  there  are  many 
operations  in  the  course  of  which  heat  changes  are 
not  revealed  by  the  thermometer.  Thus  a  vessel  con- 
taining ice  at  the  freezing  temperature  may  be  exposed 
to  heat,  but  until  the  ice  has  become  thoroughly  liqui- 
fied the  thermometer  would  indicate  no  rise.  The 
energy  has  not  been  lost  however ;  it  has  been  ex- 
pended in  separating  the  ice  particles,  and  in  over- 
coming the  cohesion  between  them  so  as  to  produce 
the  liquid  state ;  and  this  energy  will  be  again 
freed  as  heat  when  the  liquid  returns  to  the  solid  con- 
dition.* The  heat  so  escaping  thermometric  measure- 
ment is  known  as  latent  heat. 


*  Though  paradoxical,  it  is  true  that  the  freezing  process  is 
associated  with  the  liberation  of  heat,  and  is  therefore  in  one 
sease  a  warming  process.    In  passing  from  the  liquid  to  the  solid 


COMMUNICATION     OF    HEAT.  125 

Latent  Heat   of  Melting"  lee  and  of  Boiling- 

Water. — The  heat  thus  rendered  latent  in  the  melting 
of  ice  is  about  80  times  that  required  to  warm  the 
same  amount  of  water  1°  C.  Heat  is  also  rendered 
latent  in  changing  substances  from  the  liquid  to  the 
gaseous  state.  In  the  boiling  of  water  much  heat  is 
absorbed,  the  steam  being  no  warmer  according  to 
the  thermometer  than  was  the  water  at  the  instant  of 
its  vaporization.  Experiment  shows  that  to  vaporize 
a  given  quantity  of  water  at  the  boiling  temperature 
requires  about  53  7  times  as  much  heat  as  is  needed  to 
raise  that  same  quantity  of  water  through  a  range  of 
1°  C. 

Nature  Of  Specific  Heat. — Under  all  circum- 
stances, water  appears  comparatively  sluggish  in 
responding  to  the  influences  of  heat.  The  amount  of 
heat  that  would  raise  a  pound  of  water  1°  in  temper- 
ature, would  warm  30  lbs.  of  quicksilver  through  the 
same  range.  We  perceive  then  that  different  sub- 
stances possess  varying  capacities  for  heat.  If  to 
warm  a  quantity  of  water  through  a  given  range  of 
temperature  requires  30  times  as  much  heat  as  would 
serve  to  similarly  warm  an  equal  amount  of  mercury, 
then  in  cooling,  the  water  would  give  out  30  times  as 
much  heat  as  would  the  mercury.     The  relative  capac- 


state,  water  gives  out  all  of  the  heat  acquired  by  it  and  rendered 
latent  in  melting.  This  principle  is  often  made  use  of  to  prevent 
the  freezing  of  vegetables  and  fruits  during  cold  weather.  Open 
vessels  of  water  placed  in  proximity  to  such  perishable  articles 
in  a  closed  room,  will  liberate  sufficient  heat  to  warm  the  air  of 
the  room  through  a  range  of  several  degrees. 


126 


DOMESTIC    SCIEtfCtt. 


ity  of  substances  for  holding  and  retaining  heat  is 
known  as  their  specific  heat. 

An  instructive  demonstration  of  specific  heat  may 
be  made  thus  (figure  57)  :  Procure  a  number  of  small 
balls  of  equal  weight,  one  each  of  iron,  copper,  silver, 
tin,  lead,  and  bismuth.  Heat  all  to  the  same  temper- 
ature by  immersing  them  in  a  bath  of  hot  oil ;  then 
place  them  on  a  cake  of  paraffin  or  of  bees'  wax.  The 
iron  soon  melts  its  way  through  the  wax  ;  then  follow 
in  order  the  copper,  the  silver,  the  lead,  and  the  bis- 
muth. Some  of  the  metals 
therefore  are  much  better 
absorbents  of  heat  than 
are  others. 

Relative    Specific 

Heats. —  Considering 

Demonstration  of  specific  heat,  water  as  the  standard, 
the  specific  heat  of  several  common  substances  may  be 
expressed  as  follows : 


Fig. 


*Water 

Air 

Oxygen 

Sulphur 

Iron 

Copper 

Silver 

Tin      - 

Mercury 

Lead 

Bismuth 

Alcohol 

Ether 


100 

23.75 

21.75 

20.26 

11.38 

9.52 

5.70 

5.62 

3.33 

3.14 

3.08 

5.05 

5.46 


*"It  is  because  water  is  capable  of  receiving  so  much  heat  that 
it  is  better  adapted  than  any  other  substance  to  quench  thirst.  A 
small  quantity  of  it  will  go  much  farther  in  absorbing  the  feverish 


COMMUNICATION    OF    HEAT.  127 

Good  Results  from  the  Laws  of  Latent  and 
Specific  Heat. — The  beneficial  effects  resulting  from 
the  operation  of  these  laws  of  latent  and  specific  heat 
are  of  the  highest  order.  Suppose  for  a  moment  that 
the  principle  of  latent  heat  did  not  exist.  As  spring 
time  approached,  the  vast  masses  of  ice  and  snow  of 
lakes,  rivers,  and  mountains  would  become  warmed 
to  the  temperature  of  32°  F.,  the  melting  and  freezing 
point  of  water ;  and  the  least  further  rise  would 
result  in  an  immediate  mighty  bursting  of  the  bonds 
of  frost ;  the  ice  and  snow  would  become  almost  in- 
stantaneously liquified,  and  wide-spread  destruction 
would  be  inevitable.  But  the  All -seeing  One  has 
wisely  decreed  that  much  heat  shall  be  required  to 
change  the  physical  state  of  matter ;  such  changes 
must  then  of  necessity  be  gradual ;  and  in  orderly 
march,  with  the  precision  of  prisoners  under  full  con- 
trol, these  frost-bound  particles  return  to  their  condi- 
tion of  liquid  liberty.  So,  too,  the  advances  of  winter 
are  restrained  and  the  severity  of  the  season  is  tem- 
pered by  reason  of  the  great  amount  of  latent  heat 
escaping  from  freezing  water.  But  for  the  operation 
of  this  principle,  a  fall  of  temperature  only  one  degree 
below  the  freezing  point,  would  result  in  the  instan- 
taneous formation  of  ice  on  a  stupendous  scale.  Try 
to  think  of  the  possible  results,  if  as  soon  as  the  boil- 

heat  of  the  mouth  and  throat  than  an  equal  amount  of  any  other 
liquid.  When  swallowed  and  taken  into  the  stomach,  or  when 
poured  over  the  inflamed  skin,  it  is  the  most  grateful  and  cooling 
of  all  substances.  For  the  same  reason,  a  bottle  of  hot  water 
will  keep  the  feet  warm  much  longer  than  a  hot  stone  or  block." — 
Dr.  Youmans. 


128  DOMESTIC     SCIENCE. 

ing  point  were  reached,  water  was  instantly  converted 
into  steam.  Such  a  prodigious  expansion  would  be 
followed  by  demonstrations  of  explosive  violence,  such 
as  man  cannot  conceive  of.  Were  it  not  for  its  high 
specific  capacity  for  heat,  water  would  respond  with 
alarming  readiness  to  the  slightest  changes  of  tempera- 
ture;  and  the  result  could  not  be  other  than  destruc- 
tive. But  such  dire  calamities  are  prevented  through 
the  operation  of  the  laws  of  nature,  which  are  the 
laws  of  God.  These  stupendous  forces  are  under  per- 
fect control ;  the  Mighty  One  holds  them  in  His 
power. 


REVIEW. 

1.  How  would  you  demonstrate  the  conduction  of  heat  in  a 
bar  of  metal  ? 

2.  Describe  a  conductometer. 

3.  Give  the  order  of  conductivity  of  several  common  sub- 
stances. 

4.  What  do  you  know  of  liquids  as  conductors  of  heat? 

5.  How  would  you  demonstrate  the  inability  of  liquids  to 
conduct  heat  downward  ? 

6.  Explain  convection  of  heat  in  a  liquid. 

7.  Explain  radiation  of  heat. 

8.  Define  latent  heat. 

9.  In  what  common  processes  is  heat  rendered  latent  ? 

10.  State  the  amount  of  heat  rendered  latent  in  the  melting  of 
ice. 

11.  In  the  vaporization  of  water. 

12.  What  is  specific  heat  ? 

13.  Describe  a  demonstration  of  the  difference  of  specific  heat 
in  the  case  of  several  substances . 


COMMUNICATION     OF    HEAT.  129 

14.  Give  illustrations  of  the  relative  specific  heat  of  different 
substances. 

15,  Explain  the  great  benefits  resulting  from  the  operation  of 
the  laws  of  latent  and  specific  heat. 


130  DOMESTIC    SCIENCE. 


CHAPTER     11. 

PRODUCTION  OF  HEAT  ;  FUELS  AND  FLAME. 

Artificial  Production  of  Heat.— The  earth  is 

warmed  by  the  heat  rays  that  come  to  it  from  the  sun. 
That  brilliant  orb  has  been  constituted  by  the  Creator 
as  the  source  of  warmth,  of  light,  and  of  chemical 
energy  for  our  globe.  During  the  cold  season,  when 
we  receive  less  directly  these  energizing  rays,  and  dur- 
ing the  night,  when  the  hemisphere  on  which  we  live 
is  turned  away  from  the  glowing  sun,  and  for  special 
purposes  at  other  times,  it  is  necessary  to  provide  for 
the  artificial  production  of  heat.  The  common  methods 
of  accomplishing  this  depend  upon  the  chemical  energy 
of  combustion  ;  and  when  employed  for  such  purposes 
combustible  substances  are  known  as  fuels. 

A  Candle. — To  aid  us  in  comprehending  the  chem- 
ical processes  attending  the  burning  of  fuel,  let  us 
examine  a  small  flame ;  that  of  a  candle  will  answer 
our  purpose  well ;  but  first,  a  word  as  to  the  candle 
itself.  A  candle  consists  of  a  solid  cylinder  of  wax  or 
tallow,  or  some  such  easily  fusible  and  combustible 
material ;  this  is  the  fuel.  In  the  middle  of  this  cyl- 
inder a  wick  is  placed  ;  this  serves  by  its  porous  nature 
to  convey  the  melted  wax  from  the  little  cup  at  the 
top  of  the  cylinder  to  the  region  of  the  flame. 

Products  of  Combustion  of   Candle.— in  the 

burning  process  a  union   occurs    between  the   carbon 


PRODUCTION    OF    HEAT. 


131 


Fig.  58. 

Moisture  formed  by  the  candle 

flame  condensing  on  a  cold 

tumbler. 


and  the  hydrogen  of  the  fuel,  and   the  oxygen  of  the 
air.  Hydrogen  in  burning  with  oxygen  produces  water  ; 

carbon  in  so  combining 
forms  carbon  dioxide. 
Hold  over  a  candle  flame 
a  dry,  cold  goblet  (figure 
58)  ;  water  from  the  flame 
condenses  on  the  inside  of 
the  glass.  A  similar  thing 
occurs  when  a  cold  lamp 
chimney  is  placed  in  posi- 
tion  over  the  freshly 
lighted  wick.  Soon,  how- 
ever, goblet  and  lamp 
chimney  become  so  warm 
as  not  to  allow  the  deposition  of  water. 

Now  arrange  an  apparatus  as  shown  in  figure  59. 
The  gases  rising  from  the  burning  candle  are  drawn 
through  the  bottle,  in  which  is  a  quantity  of  clear 
lime  water.  This  lime  water  soon  becomes  turbid 
from  the  formation  within  it  of  insoluble  lime  carbon- 
ate. This,  it  will  be  remembered  from  previous  ex- 
periments, (see  page  4  7)  is  a  proof  of  the  presence  of 
carbon  dioxide. 

Flame  is  Burning'  Gas. — The  flame  of  the  candle 
is  due  to  the  combustion  of  gaseous  matters.  Fuels 
containing  large  quantities  of  volatile  combustible 
matters  burn  with  large  flames ;  such  is  the  case  with 
resinous  woods,  soft  coals,  tar,  pitch,  oils,  and  the 
like;  while  fuels  consisting  mostly  of  fixed  carbon, 
such  as  charcoal,  coke,  and  anthracite  coal,  burn  with  a 


132 


DOMESTIC    SCIENCE. 


steady  glow,  but  with  little  flame.      Indeed,  flame  may 
be  regarded  in  all  cases  as  burning  gas.      To  demon - 


Fig.  59. 
Gases  rising  from  a  candle  flame  being  drawn  through  lime  water. 

strate  this  fact,  let  us  return  once  more  to  our  candle. 

When  it  is  burning  brightly,   blow  it  out  by  a  sudden 

puff  ;  a  stream  of  vapor 
is  now  seen  rising  from 
the  wick ;  this  consists 
of  the  volatile  part  of  the 
wax,  which  had  been 
carried  to  the  region  of 
the  flame,  but  now  that 
the  candle  is  extinguished 
it  cannot  burn,  therefore 


Fig.  60. 
Combustible  vapors  of  volatil- 
ized wax. 


it  escapes.     Now  apply  a   light  to   this  rising  column 


PRODUCTION    OF    HEAT. 


133 


of  vapor;   the  flame  runs  along  the  line  and  re-ignites 
the  wick. 

That  this  combustible  vapor  is  produced  through  the 
action  of  the  heat  on  the  wax,  may  be  proved  by 
warming  a  quantity  of  wax  in  a  glass  tube  provided 
with  an  escape  jet ;  vapor  rises  and  may  be  burned  as 
it  issues  from  the  jet  (figure  60). 


Fig.  61.. 
Showing  that  the  candle  flame 
is  hollow. 


Fig.  62. 
Match  head  in  center  of  flame 
remaining  unburned. 


Structure  Of  Flame. — The   hollow  nature  of  the 
flame  may    be    shown   by   placing  a  splinter   of    wood 

across  the  flame,  as  in  figure 
61.  A  charring  action  will 
occur  where  the  outer  shell 
of  flame  touches  the  wood  ; 
but  between  these  points  the 
wood  is  unscorched.  By 
deft  action  a  match  head 
may  be  introduced  into  the 
flame  center,  and  there  held 
unlighted,  though  the  heat  may  be  sufficient  to  melt 
the  ignition  material  (see  figure  6  2).  A  strip  of  paper 
may  be  depressed  upon  the  flame,  as  in  figure  63.      On 


Fig.  63. 
Showing  that  flame  is  hollow 


134  DOMESTIC    SCIKNCK. 

being  removed  a  blackened  ring,  inclosing  an  un- 
scorched  center  will  be  seen. 

Fuels. — The  processes  operating  in  and  about  the 
larger  flames  may  be  thus  understood  from  the  study 
of  a  burning  candle.  The  hydrogen  and  the  carbon 
of  burning  wood  and  coal  unite  with  the  oxygen  of 
the  air,  and  in  so  doing  they  evolve  heat.  Fuels  are 
efficient  in  proportion  to  the  amount  of  hydrogen  and 
carbon  they  contain.  All  solid  fuels,  however,  con- 
tain a  considerable  quantity  of  incombustible  matter; 
the  fixed  portions  of  which  remain  after  the  burning 
in  the  form  of  ash. 

Moisture  in  Fuels. — Another  cause  of  the  diminu- 
tion in  the  heating  value  of  fuels  lies  in  the  amount  of 
water  contained  by  them.  We  all  know  that  green 
woods,  rich  in  sap,  are  far  less  efficient  fuels  than  are 
dry  woods.  Water  in  fuels  lowers  the  percentage  of 
available  oxygen  and  carbon  ;  its  presence  retards  the 
combustive  process,  by  absorbing  much  heat  as  the 
burning  proceeds ;  and  when  the  boiling  temperature 
is  reached,  the  water  is  converted  into  steam,  and  thus 
a  large  amount  of  heat  is  rendered  latent,  and  is  car- 
ried off  by  the  escaping  vapor. 

Heating"  Power  Of  Fuels. — The  calorific  or  heat- 
ing power  of  fuels  depends  upon  the  amount  of  oxy- 
gen with  which  they  unite  in  the  course  of  combustion. 
Thus,  1  lb.  of  hydrogen  while  burning  will  combine  with 
8  lbs.  of  oxygen  ;  while  1  lb.  of  carbon  unites  with  2  2/$ 
lbs.  of  oxygen.  Hydrogen  in  burning  produces  over 
three  times  as  much  heat  as  does  the  same  weight  of 
carbon.      The  practical  efficiency  of  hydrogen  as  a  fuel 


PRODUCTION    OF    HEAT.  135 

is  lowered,  however,  by  the  fact  that  the  water  pro- 
duced by  its  combustion  absorbs  and  renders  latent  a 
large  proportion  of  the  heat.  The  carbon  dioxide 
resulting  from  the  burning  of  carbon,  having  appar- 
ently little  capacity  for  heat,  and  undergoing  no 
change  of  state,  absorbs  much  less  of  the  heat  of  com- 
bustion. For  practical  purposes,  therefore,  the  pro- 
portion of  fixed  carbon  in  fuels  largely  determines  their 
relative  efficiency. 

Wood  as  Fuel  is  still  in  extensive  use,  where  it  is 
plentiful.  Ordinarily,  wood  contains  a  large  amount 
of  water.*  It  is  usually  allowed  to  become  air- dried 
before  being  burned  ;  by  this  its  efficiency  is  greatly 
increased.  Soft  woods  burn  quickly,  and  give  out  a 
comparatively  intense  heat  in  very  short  time  ;  but  they 
burn  out  much  more  rapidly  than  do  hard  woods. 
Common  woods  may  be  ranged  in  the  following  order 
with  respect  to  their  heating  values,  the  poorer  kinds 
being  named  first : — white  pine,  poplar,  soft  maple, 
cherry,  cedar,  elm,  hard  maple,  yellow  oak,  wal- 
nut, beech,  apple,  scrub  oak,  white  ash,  white  oak, 
hickory. 

Coal  exists  in  many  forms,  and  of  widely  varying 
degrees  of  efficiency   as  fuel.      There  is  much  evidence 

*"  Suppose  that  100  pounds  of  wood  contain  30  of  water,  they 
have  then  but  70  of  true  combustive  material.  When  burned,  1 
pound  of  the  wood  will  be  expended  in  raising  the  temperature 
of  the  water  to  the  boiling  point,  and  6  more  in  converting  it  into 
vapor;  making  a  loss  of  7  pounds  of  real  wood  or  one-tenth  of 
the  combustive  force.  Besides  this  dead  loss  of  10  per  cent,  of 
fuel  the  water  present  is  an  annoyance  by  hindering  free  and 
rapid  combustion." 

YOUMAXS. 


13G  DOMESTIC    SCIENCE. 

to  support  the  view  that  mineral  coal  is  but  trans- 
formed vegetable  matter.  The  remains  of  many  plants 
are  found  in  mines  ;  the  microscope  reveals,  even  in 
the  ash  of  the  hardest  coal,  a  cellular  structure  similar 
to  that  known  to  exist  in  plants ;  a  substance  very 
similar  to  coal  has  been  artificially  made  through  the 
operation  of  heat  and  pressure  upon  sawdust  and 
other  finely  divided  vegetable  matter.  Coals  are 
usually  classified  according  to  the  degree  of  metainor- 
phism  to  which  they  have  been  subjected,  as  shown  by 
the  varying  amounts  of  volatile  matter  which  they  still 
contain.  The  chief  varieties  are  lignite,  cannel  coal, 
bituminous  coal,  semi-bituminous  coal,  and  anthra- 
cite.* 

Lignite,  often  called  broivn  coal,  plainly  shows  the 
woody  structure.  It  is  soft  and  lusterless,  and  so  dif- 
ferent in  appearance  from  the  common  forms  of  coal, 
that  at  first  sight  one  scarcely  considers  it  as  belonging 
to  the  same  family.  A  typical  sample  from  Saxony 
was  analyzed  by  the  writer  and  found  to  consist  of : 

Moisture,       -----  8.24  per  cent. 

Volatile  combustible  matter,  -  49.96         " 

Fixed  carbon,  -  38.31 

Ash,      ------  3.45         " 

Cannel  Coal,  which  in  some  places  is  known  as 
parrot  coal,  is  usually  grayish  black  in  color,  dense 
aud  lusterless.  When  broken  it  shows  a  conchoidal 
or  shell  shaped  fracture.  It  contains  a  tolerably  large 
percentage  of  volatile  matter,  and  is  consequently  well 
adapted  for  the   manufacture   of  gas  ;  in  England  it  is 

*See  the  author's  "  First  Book  of  Nature,"  chapter  43. 


PRODUCTION    OF    HEAT. 


137 


known  as  gas  coal.  The  name  cannel  is  due  to  a  prac- 
tice still  followed  in  Scotland,  of  using  thin  pieces  of 
the  coal  in  place  of  candles  (Scottish  pronunciation, 
cannels).  A  good  sample  of  cannel  coal  from  Virginia 
yielded  to  the  author's  analysis : 


Moisture 

Volatile  combustible  matter 

Fixed  carbon 

Ash         .... 


0.243  per  cent. 
60.818 
35.133 

3.882 


Bituminous  Coal  contains  from  40  to  50  per  cent, 
volatile  matter.  This  constitutes  the  commonest  class 
of  coals.  It  is  a  black,  lustrous,  friable  solid,  and 
burns  with  a  large  flame.  Varieties  of  this  coal  that 
are  especially  rich  in  volatile  substances  are  described 
&sfat  bituminous  coals. 

The  following  tables  give  the  composition,  accord- 
ing to  the  author's  analyses,  of  several  kinds  of  bitu- 
minous coal  as  sold  in  Utah : 


fn 

M 

<D 

^ 

a  $ 

o     - 
£  6 

§  6 

-  >■ 

a* 

from  Cast 
ate,  Utah. 

P-i  ©    . 

g    - 

—  o 

^ 

d  *3 

■s  £ 

o 

O   CQ 

o 

O 

O 

o 

o 

o 

O 

o 

Moisture 

8.11 

7.82 

1.21 

4.56 

8.71 

\olatile  combustible  matter 

42.75 

43.57 

42.81 

39.05 

33.16 

Fixed  carbon 

46.44 

47.28 

52.35 

54.68 

56.88 

Ash 

2.68 

1.30 

3.61 

1.70 

1.24 

Coal  containing  large  amounts,  say  near  50  percent., 
of  volatile  ingredients  softens  much  in  burning.  Such 
kinds  are  popularly  called  coking  coals. 

Semi-bituminous  Coal  contains  from  15  to  20 

per    cent,  volatile  matters.      It  is  richer  in  hydrogen 


138  DOMESTIC    SCIENCE. 

than  is  anthracite,  and  it  contains  more  fixed  carbon  than 
does  bituminous  coal  proper.  Owing  to  its  ready 
inflammability  and  the  comparatively  little  smoke  at- 
tending its  burning,  it  is  in  high  favor  as  a  fuel  for 
engines  and  boiler  fires,  and  is  often  called  steam  coal. 

Anthracite  is  a  hard,  brittle,  and  highly  lustrous 
coal.  In  structure  it  is  very  dense,  and  in  breaking  it 
shows  a  conchoidal  fracture.  It  may  contain  upwards 
of  90  per  cent,  fixed  carbon,  leaving  therefore  small 
room  for  volatile  ingredients. 

A  specimen  of  anthracite  coal  from  Crested  Butte, 
Colorado,  gave  in  the  author's  analysis  the  following 
composition  : 

Moisture  ....  o.59  per  cent. 

Volatile  combustible  matter  -  6.48  " 

Fixed  carbon         ....  90.04  " 

Ash 2.43 

In  burning,  anthracite  coal  evolves  great  heat,  but 
produces  little  or  no  flame.  Coke  formed  from  an- 
thracite differs  in  appearance  but  slightly  from  the 
coal  itself.  In  different  sections  of  our  own  country, 
anthracite  is  popularly  known  as  glance  coal,  stove 
coal,  and  hard  coal ;  in  Ireland  it  is  commonly  called 
Kilkenny  coal;  in  Scotland  it  is  called  from  its  flame  - 
less  burning  blind  coal. 

The  varieties  of  coal  here  named  are  but  the  chief 
or  typical  kinds.  Numerous  others  are  known,  differ- 
ing in  degree  from  the  ones  mentioned.  Besides  the 
natural  fuels,  certain  forms  of  artificially  prepared  car- 
bon are  also  used  ;  the  chief  of  these  are  charcoal  and 
coke. 


PRODUCTION    OF    HEAT.  139 

ChaFCOal  is  produced  from  wood  by  distilling  off 
the  volatile  matters  ;  it  remains  after  the  process  as  a 
black,  brittle  solid,  containing  all  the  fixed  carbon  and 
ash  of  the  wood.  Being  very  porous,  charcoal  readily 
absorbs  moisture. 

The  common  method  of  preparing  charcoal  consists 
in  piling  the  wood  around  a  central  flue  ;  covering  the 
heap  with  earth,  and  kindling  a  fire  at  the  bottom  of 
the  flue.  Some  of  the  wood  is  burned  and  thus  pro- 
duces sufficient  heat  to  distill  the  volatile  matters  from 
the  remainder.  The  energy  of  the  combustion  is  con- 
trolled by  regulating  the  admission  of  air  to  the  heap. 
A  better  method  consists  in  using  dome- shaped  kilns 
specially  constructed  for  the  purpose.  Any  method  is 
wasteful  if  it  allows  the  escape  and  loss  of  the  volatile 
ingredients ;  in  the  best  processes  the  volatile  matters 
are  collected  and  used.  Charcoal  has  many  uses  beside 
those  of  fuel ;  some  of  these  will  be  subsequently 
referred  to. 

Coke  results  from  the  distillation  of  coal;  it  con- 
tains therefore  all  the  fixed  carbon,  and  the  ash  of  the 
coal.  It  is  made  in  large  quantities  as  a  by-product  in 
the  preparation  of  coal  gas.  Coke  is  a  porous,  friable 
solid,  grayish  in  color,  and  of  medium  luster.  It  is 
largely  used  as  a  fuel  in  metallurgical  operations. 
Being  devoid  of  volatile  ingredients,  coke  burns  with 
a  steady,  flameless  glow,  evolving  much  heat. 

Coal  Gas  is  a  very  convenient  and  an  efficient  arti- 
ficial fuel.  However,  the  cost  of  its  production  and 
distribution  prevents  its  use  as  a  heating  medium  be- 
coming general.     As  furnished   by  its   manufacturers, 


140  DOMESTIC    SCIENCE. 

coal  gas  may  be  regarded  as  the  partly  purified  volatile 
matter  of  coal.  Its  use  is  attended  by  considerable 
danger,  owing  to  its  poisonous  properties  and  the  ex- 
plosive nature  of  mixtures  of  gas  and  air.  Coal  gas 
is  in  more  general  use  as  an  illuminant,  though  gas 
stoves  for  heating  purposes  are  in  frequent  service. 

Gasoline  as  Fuel. — Vapor  stoves  for  the  burning 
of  volatile  oils  are  now  in  common  use.  They  depend 
for  efficacy  upon  the  burning  of  the  light  vapors 
of  petroleum,  such  as  benzine  and  gasoline, 
between  which  substances,  as  found  in  the  market, 
there  is  very  little  difference  other  than  that  of  the 
prices  charged  for  them. 

Tinder-box  and  Sulphur  Matches. — The  mode 

of  starting  fire  is  an  interesting  subject  for  study.  In 
very  early  times,  it  is  said  our  ancestors  developed 
fire  by  forcibly  rubbing  together  pieces  of  dry  wood  ; 
this  method  was  laborious  and  its  results  uncertain, 
though  it  is  still  employed  among  savage  tribes.  An 
advance  was  made  in  the  use  of  flint  and  steel  with 
which  to  produce  a  spark,  and  tinder  to  be  inflamed 
thereby.  In  the  early  part  of  the  present  century  the 
tinder-box  was  a  household  necessity.  Sulphur 
matches,  consisting  of  a  globule  of  sulphur  on  the  end  of 
a  splinter  of  dry  wood,  were  used  in  connection  with 
the  tinder,  the  low  igniting  point  of  sulphur  making 
it  possible  to  readily  procure  a  flame  from  the  smolder- 
ing tinder. 

Phosphorus  Matches.— The  matches  of  the 
present  day  depend  for  their  inflammability  upon  the 
presence  of  phosphorus.     Common  matches  are  made 


__^_ 


PRODUCTION     OF      HEAT.  141 

by  dipping  the  bits  of  wood  in  melted  sulphur,  and 
afterwards  in  a  paste  of  phosphorus,  potassium 
nitrate  (nitre),  and  glue.  Slight  friction  inflames  the 
phosphorus,  this  ignites  the  sulphur,  while  the  nitre 
decomposes  and  furnishes  oxygen  to  aid  the  combus- 
tion. The  glue  forms  a  hard  coating  impermeable  to 
air,  so  that  the  phosphorus  within  the  match  head  is 
protected  from  oxidation  till  by  friction  the  outer 
layers  are  worn  away.  In  the  crackling  or  explosive 
matches,  potassium  chlorate  is  used  in  place  of  nitre  ; 
such  matches  burn  quickly.  If  a  colored  match -head 
be  desired,  a  pigment,  usually  vermillion,  red  lead,  or 
Prussian  blue,  is  stirred  into  the  paste. 

Safety  Matches. — Many  serious  results  have 
followed  the  accidental  ignition  of  matches ;  and  as  a 
partial  safeguard  safety  matches  were  invented,  though 
their  use  has  not  become  general.  Safety  matches  are 
capped  with  a  mixture  of  potassium  chlorate,  anti- 
mony sulphide,  and  glue  ;  they  ignite  only  when 
rubbed  on  a  prepared  plate  containing  red  phosphorus 
and  fine  sand  or  powdered  glass.  The  red  or  amorphous 
phosphorus  is  far  less  dangerous  in  use  than  is  the 
ordinary  waxy  phosphorus. 


REVIEW. 

1.  What  is  fuel  ? 

2.  Describe  the  parts  of  a  candle  and  the  changes  going  on 
as  it  burns. 

3.  Prove  that  water   is  a  product  of  ordinary  combustion. 

4.  Show  that  carbon  dioxide  is  produced  by  a  burning  candle. 


142  DOMESTIC    SCIENCE. 

5.  Explain  the  production  of  water  and  carbon  dioxide  in 
ordinary  combustion. 

6.  What  is  flame  ? 

7.  Show  that  the  flame  of  a  candle  results  from  the  burning 
of  combustible  vapors. 

8.  Describe  three  demonstrations  of  the  hollow  form  of  flame. 

9.  Explain  the  effect  of  water  in  fuels. 

10.  What  do  you  know  of  wood  as  a  fuel  ? 

11.  What  evidence  have  you  that  coal  is  probably  formed  from 
vegetable  matter  ? 

12.  Name  the  principal  kinds  of  coal. 

13.  What  do  you  know  of  lignite  ? 

14.  Of  cannel  coal  ? 

15.  Of  bituminous  coal  ? 

16.  Of  semi-bituminous  coal  ? 

17.  Of  anthracite? 

18.  How  is  charcoal  produced? 

19.  What  do  you  know  about  coke? 

20.  Discuss  coal  gas  and  natural  gas  as  fuels. 

21.  Explain  the  operation  of  the  old  time  tinder-box,  flint  and 
steel,  in  producing  fire. 

22.  Explain  the  operation  of  common  matches. 

23.  Of  safety  matches. 


HOUSE    WARMING.  143 


CHAPTER  12. 

HOUSE    WARMING. 


Desirable  Temperature  for  Rooms. — Through- 
out the  temperate  and  colder  regions  of  the  earth, 
man  finds  it  necessary  to  employ  means  for  artificially 
warming  his  home.  In  this  he  aims  to  secure  an  in- 
door temperature  which  will  give  comfort  and  be  con  - 
ducive  to  health.  Xo  exact  temperature  can  be 
definitely  named  as  being  under  all  circumstances  most 
advantageous.  The  bodily  susceptibilities  and  require- 
ments of  different  persons  for  heat  vary  considerably  ; 
a  middle-aged,  vigorous  man  may  find  no  discomfort 
from  cold  in  a  room  heated  only  to  59°  or  60°  F. 
while  an  enfeebled  or  sickly  person  may  shiver  at  70° 
F.  It  is  evidently  advisable,  therefore,  that  a  medium 
temperature  should  be  secured,  and  the  individual 
peculiarities  be  met  as  nearly  as  possible  by  suitable 
amounts  of  clothing.  For  the  majority  of  human 
beings,  a  house  temperature  of  62°  F.  to  68°  F.  will 
be  found  most  agreeable  and  beneficial. 

Primitive     Fire  -  places. — Many    methods    of 

warming  dwellings  are  known,  of  these  the  open  fire- 
place properly  claims  our  first  attention,  by  reason  of 
its  great  antiquity.  Among  ancient  nations  the  open 
fire  was  the  only  known  means  of  house  warming, 
and  the  primitive  fire-place  was  a  very  crude  affair. 
The  chimney  is   a  modern  invention,    being  now  but 


144  DOMESTIC    SCIENCE. 

about  600  years  old.  Before  the  thirteenth  century, 
dwellings  were  warmed  by  a  method  which  is  still 
exemplified  in  the  huts  of  the  Esquimaux — the  fire 
being  on  the  floor  near  the  middle  of  the  room,  and 
the  smoke  escaping  as  best  it  may  by  the  doorway  and 
through  a  hole  in  the  roof. 

Even  among  the  classical  Greeks  and  Romans,  but 
little  real  advancement  was  made  over  this  primitive 
and  dirty  practice.  However  they  had  vessels  specially 
provided  as  fire-holders  ;  these  were  known  as  braziers, 
and  consisted  each  of  a  pan  mounted  on  a  tripod  of 
convenient  height,  the  whole  being  ornamented  with 
carving  and  symbolical  devices.* 

Early  Forms  of  Open  Grates. — The  invention 
of  chimneys  was  soon  followed  by  that  of  fire-places 
proper.  The  first  of  these  consisted  of  a  huge  square 
opening  in  the  wall ;  but  a  small  part  of  this  space, 
however,  was  actually  used  for  the  fire,  the  remainder 
being  occupied  by  seats  along  the  sides.  Count  Rum- 
ford  pointed  out  some  of  the  many  defects  of  such  a 
structure ;  he  showed  that  the  jambs  or  side  walls,  if 
built  so  as  to  directly  face  each  other,  that  is,  at  right 
angles  to  the  back   of    the  fire-place,   would   simply 


*  Dr.  Youman  says  of  the  Eoman  fire-place:  "They  (the  Greeks 
and  Romans)  kept  fires  in  open  pans  called  braziers.  Those  of  the 
Romans  were  elegant  bronze  tripods,  supported  by  carved  images 
with  a  round  dish  above  for  the  fire.  A  small  vase  below  con- 
tained perfumes,  odorous  gums  and  aromatic  spices,  which  were 
used  to  mask  the  disagreeable  odor  of  the  combustive  products. 
The  portions  of  the  walls  most  exposed  were  painted  black,  to 
prevent  the  visible  effects  of  smoke,  and  the  rooms  occupied  in 
winter  had  plain  cornices  and  no  carved  work  or  mouldings,  so 
that  the  soot  might  be  easily  cleared  away. 


HOUSE    WARMING.  145 

reflect  the  heat  rays  back  and  forth  between  them ; 
whereas  if  the  walls  were  placed  at  a  widening  angle 
with  the  back,  according  to  the  laws  governing  the 
reflection  of  rays  of  force,  much  of  the  heat  and  light 
would  be  thrown  into  the  room.  He  concluded  that 
the  best  angle  at  which  the  jambs  could  be  set  was 
135°  with  the  back  of  the  hearth. 

Essentials  of    an  Efficient  Fire-place.— The 

modern  fire-place  is  by  comparison  a  dwarfish  struc- 
ture ;  the  open  space  leading  into  the  chimney  above 
the  grate  is  reduced  to  a  minimum,  and  the  grate  itself 
is  made  to  project  into  the  room.  In  England,  the 
open  grate  remains  still  in  general  use,  and  some  im- 
provements are  there  being  introduced.  The  follow- 
ing features  are  considered  by  many  English  authori- 
ties (notably  Parkes  and  Teale)  as  essential  in  good  fire- 
places :  The  back  of  the  grate  should  be  about  one -third 
as  wide  as  the  front ;  the  sides  set  at  the  angle  of  135°  ; 
the  sides  and  back  should  be  of  fire-brick;  the  back 
should  be  inclined  forward,  that  the  flames  may  play 
upon  it,  the  whole  fire-place  being  carried  well 
forward  into  the  room  ;  the  chimney  throat  should 
be  narrowed  as  much  as  possible;  and  the  fire-place 
and  chimney  should  be  built  in  the  inner  walls  of  the 
house,  so  that  the  escaping  heat  may  do  some  good  in 
warming  the  upper  rooms. 

Advantages    and    Disadvantages    of    Open 

Grates. — Many  people  speak  in  favor  of  the  open 
grate  as  a  heating  device,  and  others  present  strong 
objections  to  its  use.  The  brilliant  glare  of  the  burn- 
ing fuel,  fully  exposed  to  our  view,  imparts  a  cheerful 


146  DOMESTIC    SCIENCE. 

influence ;  it  is  in  the  nature  of  man  to  love  warmth 
and  light,  and  therefore  he  has  pleasant  preferences  for 
the  open  grate: — and  farther,  there  are  many  sub- 
stantial benefits  arising  from  its  use.  The  heat 
derived  from  a  clear,  open  fire  is  almost  entirely 
radiant  heat,  the  air  of  the  room  never  becoming  burnt 
or  excessively  heated,  and,  farther,  the  fire  does  much 
to  promote  efficient  ventilation.  On  the  other  hand, 
open  fire-places  are  dusty  and  dirty  additions  to  a 
room ;  ashes  and  soot  are  sure  to  escape  from  them 
into  the  apartments ;  the  radiant  heat  warms  chiefly 
the  side  of  persons  and  objects  that  is  directed  toward 
the  fire,  and  in  the  coldest  weather,  when  the 
efficiency  of  our  heating  appliances  is  taxed  the  most, 
this  inequality  of  warmth  is  found  most  distressing. 
In  addition,  open  grates  do  not  secure  to  the  room  a 
uniform  temperature ;  but  very  inadequate  regulators 
of  the  combustion,  such  as  dampers  and  valves,  are 
provided,  and  the  varying  intensity  of  the  burning  as 
the  fuel  in  the  grate  becomes  low  and  is  then  replen- 
ished, will  effect  rapid  changes  in  the  temperature  of 
the  room.  As  regards  economy  of  fuel,  nothing  can 
be  said  in  favor  of  the  open  hearth ;  experience  has 
demonstrated  that  the  best  grates  of  modern  con- 
struction allow  fully  70  per  cent,  of  the  heat  to  escape 
up  the  chimney,  and  in  poorly  constructed  grates  the 
proportion  of  loss  may  reach  even  90  per  cent. 

Stoves  of  various  forms  are  now  in  common  use 
for  domestic  warming.  A  stove  may  be  described  as 
a  box,  usually  of  metal,  so  constructed  as  to  favor  the 
combustion  of  fuel  placed  within  it,    and  to  allow  the 


HOUSE    WARMING. 


14 


ready  removal  of  the  gaseous  products  of  the  burning. 
Stoves  communicate  heat  to  the  room,  parti)'  by  radia- 
tion but  mostly  by   convection.      The  air  in  contact 


VolJu-JJxits 


Optr.in^s  mukr 


ZotJirJPtih 


Opf/axfs  for  Cold  J?t  * 


Fig.  64. 
Double-case  stove. 

with  the  heated  surface  becomes  warm,  in  consequence 

of    which    it    rises   and   gives   place   to   a  quantity  of 


1 1 1  ■  i  ■  i 


14  8  DOMESTIC    SCIENCE. 

colder  air.  The  air  of  these  rising  currents  coming  in 
contact  with  the  colder  ceiling  and  walls,  contracts  and 
sinks  ;  thus  circulating  currents  are  created  within  the 
room.  The  pipe  which  leads  from  the  stove  to  the 
chimney  opening  imparts  much  heat  to  the  room  ;  and 
this  effect  is  materially  increased  if  elbows  are  placed 
in  the  pipe.  The  reason  for  this  is  simple — the  cooling 
of  the  heated  gaseous  contents  of  the  pipe  can  occur 
only  at  the  surface  of  the  column  ;  such  process  will  be 
necessarily  slow,  and  much  of  the  heat  will  be  carried 
to  the  chimney :  whereas  if  the  current  be  broken  up 
as  by  means  of  angles  in  the  pipe,  a  circulation 
within  the  moving  column  will  be  caused,  and  more 
air  will  come  in  contact  with  the  pipe  walls,  thus 
favoring  the  transmission  of  heat  into  the  room.  Figure 
64  illustrates  the  essential  parts  and  action  of  the 
double-case  stove. 

Advantages  and  Disadvantages  of  Stoves. — 

Stoves  are  of  but  slight  appreciable  benefit  in  room 
ventilation ;  indeed,  it  is  said  to  their  discredit  that 
they  are  of  actual  detriment,  through  allowing  the 
escape  of  injurious  gases  from  the  fire.  In  stoves  of 
poor  construction,  and  in  the  best  of  stoves  badly 
managed,  this  charge  is  certainly  well  founded  ;  but 
good  stoves  under  efficient  control  are  not  necessarily 
as  detrimental  to  health  as  has  been  claimed.  How- 
ever, if  the  iron  walls  of  the  stove  become  too  highly 
heated,  poisonous  gases,  principally  carbon  monoxide, 
will  escape  from  the  fire  into  the  room.  Hot  iron, 
especially  if  it  be  cast  iron,  is  readily  permeable  to 
the  deadly  carbon  monoxide,  as  also  to  other  gaseous 


HOUSE    WARMING.  "  149 

products  from  the  fire  box.  Heated  iron  surfaces  are 
apt  to  char  the  organic  impurities  of  the  air  in  contact 
therewith,  imparting  to  it  a  foul  smell,  and  other  in- 
jurious properties.  These  ill  effects  may  be  prevented 
in  a  great  measure  by  using  stoves  with  large  radiat- 
ing surfaces,  so  that  no  necessity  exists  of  over-heating 
any  part.  The  fire-box  of  heating  stoves  should  be 
surrounded  by  fire-brick  or  other  non-conducting 
material :  such  a  casing  would  assist  in  regulating  the 
temperature  changes  resulting  from  the  varying  inten- 
sity of  the  fire.  Another  decided  disadvantage  attend- 
ing the  use  of  stoves  lies  in  the  consequent  dryness  of 
the  atmosphere.  As  air  becomes  warmed,  its  capacity 
for  moisture  increases,  and  the  relative  humidity  of 
the  air  is  greatly  diminished.  This  may  be  partially 
overcome  by  placing  open  vessels  of  water  on  the 
stove  or  about  the  room.  Though  the  use  of  stoves  is 
attended  by  many  serious  disadvantages,  it  is  safe  to  say 
that  their  demerits  have  been  in  some  cases  over- stated 
to  the  raising  of  a  strong  popular  prejudice  against 
them.  Good  stoves  if  large  and  well  supplied  with 
draught- valves  and  dampers,*  may  be  used  in  house 
warming  with  great  success. 

Warming'  the  Lower  Portions  of  Rooms. — All 

the  heating  arrangements  thus  far  described,  tend  to 
render  the  upper  parts  of  the  rooms  warmer  than  the 

*  The  method  of  placing  a  clamper  or  regulating  valve  in  the 
pipe  is  a  bad  one  ;  since  when  such  a  valve  is  closed  the  gaseous 
products  of  combustion  will  surely  be  thrown  into  the  room. 
The  draught  regulators  should  be  so  placed  as  to  control  the 
admission  of  air  to  the  fire,  not  arranged  to  check  the  escape 
of  gases. 


'i  ....  1 1  .■ 


150  DOMESTIC    SCIENCE. 

floors,  which  condition  is  directly  opposed  to  the 
requirements  of  health  ;  cold  feet  are  the  precursors 
of  many  forms  of  illness.  The  methods  yet  to  be 
referred  to  promote  the  distribution  of  heat  at  the 
floor. 

Warmed  Air  is  extensively  used  as  a  medium  in 
domestic  heating.  In  this  system,  fresh  air  from 
without  is  carried  to  the  furnaces  by  means  of  pipes 
and  there  it  is  raised  to  the  proper  temperature  ;  thence 
it  is  carried  through  distributing  pipes  to  the  rooms  to 
be  warmed,  and  then  discharged  through  register 
apertures  in  walls  and  floors.  The  most  serious 
defect  of  the  warm-air  system  lies  in  the  fact  that  the 
air  becomes  relatively  dry,  being  in  some  cases 
actually  scorched,  and  consequently  tainted  from  the 
charring  of  the  contained  organic  matter. 

Steam  Warming5  is  held  in  high  favor  as  a  means 
for  heating  dwelling  houses  and  large  buildings.  The 
essential  features  of  the  process  are  these :  steam  is 
generated  in  a  properly  constructed  boiler  ;  the  vapor 
is  conveyed  through  pipes  to  the  apartments  that  are 
to  be  warmed  :  there  the  steam  is  passed  through  one 
or  more  radiators  (Fig.  65)consisting  of  a  pipe  arranged 
in  many  parallel  sections.  In  condensing,  the  steam 
imparts  its  heat  to  the  air  of  the  room.  The  latent 
heat  of  vaporization  has  been  already  explained ; 
(see  page  1 25) — It  will  be  remembered,  that  in  passing 
from  the  liquid  state  at  the  boiling  temperature  (212° 
F.  or  100°  C.)  to  steam  at  the  same  temperature,  53  7 
times  as  much  heat  is  absorbed  as  would  be  required 
to  raise  the  temperature  of  the  same  amount  of  water 


HOUSE    WARMING 


151 


1°  C.     This  latent    heat. 


Fig.  65. 
Steam  radiator 


though  not  measurable  by 
the  thermometer,  is  re- 
tained by  the  steam  ;  and 
in     the    condensation    of 


amount  of  heat  is  again 
liberated.  Thus  water 
may  be  vaporized  in  the 
cellar,  and  the  steam 
may  be  made  the  carrier 
of  heat  into  the  most 
distant  parts  of  the 
house.  How  admirable 
is  the  operation  of  this 
principle  !  how  cleanly, 
economical  is   this  method  over    that  of 


■■>■  oi JTiTTiTfftT'O?  W 

M  Inffl 

1     ' 

1             1 

!  H 

;j,„;;jJ.JjjJ.j. 

efficient   and 

grates  or  stoves  in  rooms,  with  their  inevitable  accom- 
paniments of  dust  and  dirt,  irregular  temperature, 
uncontrollable  draughts,  woful  waste  of  energy  ! 
The  boiler  may  be  situated  at  any  reasonable  distance 
from  the  rooms  to  be  warmed.  If  far  removed,  how- 
ever, it  is  necessary  to  protect  the  pipes  with  coatings 
of  non-conducting  material,  else  much  heat  will  be 
lost  on  the  way.  The  conducting  pipes  are  usually 
wrapped  with  many  layers  of  asbestos  fibre  ;  then 
with  hair  felt,  and  outside  of  this  with  several  thick- 
nesses of  stout  paper  ;  on  this,  strips  of  wood  are 
laid  lengthwise  and  the  whole  is  bound  together  by 
wire.  The  pipe  thus  wrapped  is  inclosed  in  a  wooden 
tube,  usually  a  hollowed  log.     Such  insulation  is  not 


152  DOMESTIC    SCIENCE. 

needed  in  cases  wherein  the  pipes  are  not  exposed  for 
any  great  length. 

Warm  Water  Warming.— The  warming  of 
houses  through  the  medium  of  warm  water  depends 
for  its  efficacy  upon  the  high  specific  heat  of  water 
(see  page  126),  by  virtue  of  which  it  absorbs  for  a 
given  rise  of  temperature  a  greater  amount  of  heat 
than  does  any  other  liquid,  and  in  cooling  through  a 
given  range  of  temperature  a  correspondingly  large 
amount  of  heat  is  given  out. 

In  the  Low  Pressure  System  of  heating  by  water, 
the  pipes  are  so  connected  with  the  boiler  as  to  allow 
a  complete  circulation  ;  the  water  returning  to  the 
boiler  after  having  traversed  the  circuit  of  pipes. 
From  the  highest  point  in  the  course  of  the  pipes  a 
vent  is  provided  for  the  escape  of  steam  and  heated 
air.  The  water  in  this  system  can  never  exceed  in 
temperature  the  boiling  point — 212°  F.,  and  therefore 
no  scorched  or  excessively  dry  state  of  the  air  is 
possible. 

The  method  known  as  the  High  Pressure  System 
requires  the  use  of  very  stout  pipes  without  a  vent. 
No  boiler  being  used,  the  pipes  pass  directly  through 
the  furnace  and  no  escape  being  provided,  the  inclosed 
water  becomes  heated  under  pressure  ;  its  tempera- 
ture may  therefore  be  raised  far  above  the  ordinary 
boiling  point  ;  still,  as  there  is  no  room  for  ex- 
pansion, steam  is  not  produced.  In  this  system,  the 
water  is  sometimes  raised  to  a  temperature  above 
300°  F. 


HOUSE    WARMING.  153 


REVIEW. 


1.  What  is  your  opinion  as  the  most  desirable  general  indoor 
temperature? 

2.  State  what  you  know  of   the  antiquity  of  the  open  fire 
place . 

3.  Describe  the  Roman  fire  place. 

4.  Give  reasons  for  your   opinion  as  to  the  desirability  of 
open  fire  places  in  rooms. 

5.  State  the  essential  features  of  a  good  fire  place. 

6.  How  may  stoves  vitiate  the  air  of  rooms? 

7.  Explain  the  operation  of  the  double-case  stove. 

8.  State  the  essential  features  of  a  good  heating  stove. 

9.  Where  should  the  damper  or  regulating  valve  be  placed  in 
a  stove? 

10.  Explain  the  method  of  heating  rooms  by  warmed  air. 

11.  Explain  the  process  of  steam  warming. 

12.  Explain  the  principle  of  heating  rooms  by  means  of  warm 
water. 

13.  Explain  the  low  pressure  system  of  water  warming. 

14.  Explain  the  high  pressure  system  of  water  warming. 


154  DOMESTIC    SCIENCE. 


CHAPTER     13. 

LIGHT    AND    LIGHTING. 


Light,   Natural  and    Artificial. — During    the 

daytime  we  depend  for  light  directly  upon  the  rays 
that  come  to  us  from  the  sun  ;  this  we  call  natural 
light;  throughout  the  dark  hours,  we  adopt  various 
means  for  the  local  production  of  light ;  this  we  call 
artificial  light.  In  reality  these  terms  are  misleading; 
the  light  of  lamp  and  candle  is  natural  light ;  it  results 
from  the  combustion  of  various  animal  and  vegetable 
matters,  all  of  which  grow  under  the  influence  of  the 
sun's  energy. 

Daylight  is  free  to  all ;  we  are  only  required  to 
provide  for  its  admission  to  our  homes.  It  is  not 
doled  out  to  us  by  the  pound  or  the  quart ;  no  com- 
pany's agent  calls  to  read  the  metre  and  prepare  the 
bill  of  our  indebtedness.  Light,  the  purest  and  the 
best  that  the  physical  eyes  of  man  have  ever  come  to 
know,  is  showered  with  a  Creator's  liberality  upon  the 
world.  It  floods  all  places  that  are  open  to  it.  Yet 
how  careless  we  grow  as  to  its  distribution  and  use ! 
Physiologists  declare  to  us  that  light  is  as  essential  as 
is  warmth  to  the  welfare  of  the  body.  Our  homes 
then  should  be  well  lighted. 

Light  in  Dwelling's. — It  is  true  that  the  delicate 
organs  of  sight  may  be  seriously  impaired  through 
exposure  to  light  of  unusual  brilliancy  \  but   the    ey§ 


LIGHT    AND    LIGHTING.  155 

strain  induced  by  deficient  illumination,  is  a  far  more 
frequent  cause  of  sight  deterioration.  The  illumina- 
tion within  dwelling  rooms  should  be  such  as  to  pro- 
duce in  the  eye  a  feeling  of  ease  and  comfort ;  no  strain 
should  be  experienced  when  closely  viewing  any  object 
within  the  range  of  vision.  For  a  person  sitting  at 
the  table  reading  or  writing,  the  light  should  come 
from  above  as  through  a  skylight,  or  from  the  left  and 
back.  In  this  way  the  paper  or  book  is  well  illumi- 
nated, and  the  shadow  is  thrown  away  from  the  right 
hand. 

Luminosity  Of  Flames. — For  artificial  illumin- 
ation, the  methods  most  commonly  employed  depend 
upon  the  combustion  of  certain  substances,  whereby  a 
luminous  flame  is  produced.  An  exception  to  this  is 
seen  in  the  case  of  the  electric  light.  As  has  already 
been  stated,  flame  is  due  to  the  combustion  of  gases ; 
solid  fuels  may  evolve  great  heat  and  yet  their  com- 
bustion is  nameless.  Yet  many  flames  are  but  slightly 
luminous  ;  for  example,  hydrogen  burning  with  a  very 
intense  heat  emits  but  a  very  feeble  light.  The  flame 
of  the  common  spirit  lamp,  depending  upon  the  com- 
bustion of  the  vapor  of  alcohol,  is  almost  entirely 
non-luminous.  The  luminosity  of  flame  is  due  to  the 
incandescence  of  solid  particles  which  are  present  with 
the  gas.  The  most  intense  artificial  lights  are  pro- 
duced by  the  incandescence  of  solids.  Many  of  the 
carbon  particles  in  the  candle  vapor  are  heated  to 
incandescence,  the  supply  of  oxygen  is  insufficient 
to  burn  them  with  undue  rapidity ;  they  therefore 
shine.     In  an  ordinary  flame,  (figure  66,)  several  dis- 


156 


DOMESTIC    SCIENCE. 


tinct  parts  are  discernible ;  A,  a  dark,  central  core,  in 
which  region  no  combustion  is  possible  because  of  the 
absence  of  air;  B,  a  luminous  cone;  and  C,  an  outer 
envelope. 

The  Blowpipe. — The  intensity  of  combustion  in 
an  ordinary  flame  may  be  greatly  increased  by  means 
of  the  mouth  blowpipe ;  such  as  is  used  by  jewelers, 
chemists  and  others.  The  manner  of  using  the  instru- 
ment is  shown  in  figure  66.     By  means  of  such  a  pipe, 


Fig.  66. 
Candle  flame  and  mouth  blowpipe. 

air  may  be  blown  into  the  flame;  the  flame  then  be- 
comes a  solid  one,  the  combustible  materials  are  more 
rapidly  and  more  completely  burned  ;  few  solid  parti- 
cles have  time  to  become  incandescent  before  they  are 
consumed;  the  result  is  a  bluish,  hot,  but  non-lumi- 
nous flame. 


LIGHT    AND    LIGHTING. 


157 


The  Kerosene  Lamp. — There  was  a  time  when 
candles  were  the  commonest  of  household  illuminants. 
The  structure  of  candles  and  the  general  nature  of 
their  flame  have  been  already  noticed.  The  place  of 
candles  in  domestic  lighting  has  now  been  taken  by 
lamps  in  which  certain  inflammable  oils  are  burned. 

A  lamp  of  modern  construction  (figure  67)  consists 
essentially   of  a  cistern,  b,  for   holding  oil ;  supported 

on  a  base  or  pillar,  a ;  a 
wick,  c,  for  conveying  the 
fluid  to  the  place  of  burn- 
ing ;  a  burner,  e,  for  the 
support  of  the  wick  and  for 
the  proper  distribution  of 
air  about  it ;  this  is  usually 
provided  with  a  rachet,  d, 
by  which  the  wick  may  be 
raised  or  lowered  ;  next  a 
chimney  of  glass,  /,  to 
shield  the  fl  ame  from  the  dis- 
Fis-  67-  turbing  effects  of  draughts. 

Simple  form  of  lamp.  The  wicks  that  were  first 

made  were  shaped  like  a  solid  cylinder ;  those  of  later 
times  are  flat.  Dr.  Franklin  demonstrated  in  the  case 
of  candles,  that  two  small  wicks  burned  side  by  side 
would  give  greater  light  than  a  single  wick  of  double 
size ;  this  fact  is  due  to  the  greater  surface  exposed  by 
the  two  wicks.  The  advantage  of  spreading  out  the 
wick  fibres  thereby  enlarging  the  surface  will  be  readily 
seen. 
The  Argand  Lamp.— About  1790,  A.  D.,  one 


L58 


DOMESTIC    SCIENCE. 


Argand,  of  Geneva,  invented  a  lamp  in  which  the  wick 
was  arranged  as  a  hollow  cylinder ;  this  is  still  in  use, 
and  is  known  as  the  Argand  lamp.  The  general  fea- 
tures of  this  lamp  will  be  understood  from  an  inspec- 
tion of  figure  68,  which  shows  the  complete  lamp,  and 
a  section  of  the  same.  With  such  a  lamp,  a  large  cylin- 
drical flame  is  produced.  By  a  peculiar  construction 
of  the  burner,  air  is  introduced  into  the  interior  of  the 
flame,  so  that  a  more  perfect  combustion,  with  a  con- 


Fig.  68. 
Argand  lamp  anrl  section  of  same. 

sequent  increase  of  light,  is  the  result.  The  wick 
may  be  raised  or  lowered  so  that  the  size  of  the  flame 
will  be  proportional  to  the  air  current.  A  valuable 
improvement  on  the  original  Argand  lamp  was  made 
by  Lange,  a  Frenchman.  He  proposed  a  narrowed 
chimney  tube,  one  having  a  shoulder  in  the  region  of 


LIGHT    AND    LIGHTING.  159 

the  flame.  The  effect  of  such  a  chimney  is  to  deflect 
the  outer  air  current  upon  the  flame,  whereby  a  still 
greater  efficiency  is  secured.  With  a  lamp  of  this  con- 
struction it  is  possible  to  burn  without  difficulty  the 
heavier  and  poorer  oils,  because  the  free  supply  of  air 
favors  a  very  complete  combustion  of  the  carbon, 
without  the  production  of  smoke.  The  Argand  lamp 
is  noted  for  the  steadiness  of  its  flame ;  it  is  well 
adapted  to  the  writing  table,  and  is  commonly  and 
appropriaiely  called  the  Students'  Lamp. 

The  reservoir  of  oil  is  set  on  the  side  so  as  to  be 
safely  removed  from  the  heated  region  of  the  flame. 
The  reservoir  proper  is  inverted  in  an  outer  vessel, 
and  the  contained  liquid  is  held  in  position  through 
pneumatic  pressure,  and  is  conveyed  to  the  wick  only 
as  fast  as  used. 

Shadows  thrown  by  Lamps. — A  serious  objec- 
tion to  the  use  of  the  Argand  lamp  for  general 
illumination  is  based  on  the  shadow  thrown  by  the  oil 
reservoir.  The  cistern  of  common,  flat- wick  lamps 
is  sometimes  so  shaped  as  to  throw  an  objectionable 
shadow.  The  larger  the  cistern,  the  more  extensive 
will  be  its  shadow  ;  yet  small  oil  holders  are  objec- 
tionable, because  the  level  of  their  liquid  contents  falls 
rapidly  as  the  burning  proceeds,  thus  increasing  the 
distance  between  the  oil  and  the  burner,  with  a  conse- 
quent diminution  of  the  supply  through  the  wick,  and 
a  very  marked  decrease  of  li^ht. 

HollOW-wick  Lamps. — Many  forms  of  hollow 
wick  lamps  are  now  in  the  market.  The  appearance 
and  construction  of  an  efficient  kind  may  be  understood 


160 


DOMESTIC     SCIENCE. 


from  figure  69.  The  large  wick  is  placed  around  the 
hollow  cylinder,  through  which  air  is  carried  from 
below.  The  base  at  its  place  of  support  is  either  scal- 
loped or  perforated,  so  as  to  allow  the  ready  passage 
of  air  into  the  central  channel,  a.  A  funnel-shaped 
distributor  deflects  the  inner  column  of  air  against  the 
flame.  Lamps  of  this  construction  afford  much  light ; 
but  they  are  not  well  adapted  for   the  writing   desk  or 


Fig.  69. 
Hollow  wick  lamps. 

reading  table,  because  of  the  great  heat  resulting  from 
the  large  consumption  of  oil. 

Lamp  Shades. — -It  is  advisable  to  surround  the 
lamp  chimney  with  a  convenient  shade,  so  as  to  mod- 
erate the  intensity  of  the  rays  that  reach  the  eye.  It 
is  not  desirable  that  light  pass  in  an  unbroken  line 
from  its  source  to  the  eye ;  its  efficiency  depends  upon 
the  illumination  of  the  objects  to  be  viewed ;   and  ex- 


LIGHT    AND    LIGHTING.  161 

periment  has  demonstrated  that  if  the  eye  in  viewing 
an  object  receives  from  other  sources  any  rays  of  light 
of  greater  intensity  than  those  reflected  from  the  ob- 
ject itself,  the  usual  impression  is  weakened,  and  the  or- 
gans of  sight  are  unnaturally  strained.  The  value  of  a 
shade  in  deflecting  the  light  downward  upon  the  table 
will  be  readily  seen.  The  best  shades  are  made  of 
ground  glass  or  porcelain,  and  are  colored  on  the 
inside  sky-blue.  Artificial  light  from  candles  or  oil 
lamps  is  deficient  in  certain  of  the  component  colors 
of  white  light,  and  the  blue  shades  will  partly  supply 
the  missing  tints.  Shades  so  colored  afford  less  intense 
but  purer  illumination. 


REVIEW. 

1.  Why  should  dwelling  houses  be  well  lighted? 

2.  From  which  direction  should  the  light  come  for  a  person 
sitting  at  a  desk? 

3.  Which  are  the  commonest  devices  for  artificial  illumina- 
tion? 

4.  Describe  the  parts  of  an  ordinary  flame. 

5.  Describe  the  mouth  blow  pipe. 

6.  Explain  the  use  of  the  blow  pipe  in  increasing  the  heat  of 
flames. 

7.  Describe  the  parts  of  an  ordinary  kerosene  lamp. 

8 .  Show  the  effect  of  a  large  wick  as  compared  with  a  small 
one. 

9.  Describe  the  Argand  lamp. 

10.  Show  the  value  of  the  peculiar  chimney  of  the  Argand 
lamp. 

11.  Describe  other  forms  of  hollow-wick  lamps. 

12.  What  is  the  use  of  a  lamp  shade? 

13.  State  the  essential  features  of  a  good  lamp  shade. 


162  DOMESTIC    SCIENCE. 


CHAPTER     14. 

LIGHTING    CONTINUED  I    COMMON    ILLUMINANTS. 

Illuminating'  Fluids. — Reference  has  already 
been  made  to  candles  as  sources  of  light,  let  us  now 
consider  other  illuminants.  Among  the  common 
illuminating  fluids,  are  fish  oil,  lard  oil,  colza  oil,  tur- 
pentine, and  kerosene.  The  last  named  is  the  common 
household  illuminator.  Kerosene  is  a  product  of  the 
distillation  of  petroleum,  and,  as  offered  in  the 
market,  is  of  specific  gravity*  lower  than  that  of 
water,  clear  and  transparent,  the  best  grades  showing 
a  blue  tint  by  reflected  light. 

Flashing"  Point  and  Fire   Test. — In  burning, 

the  oil  is  first  converted  into  vapor ;  this  takes  fire   at 


*  The  Specific  Gravity  of  a  substance  is  the  ratio  between  its 
weight,  and  the  weight  of  an  equal  bulk  of  some  other  substance 
taken  as  a  standard.  The  common  standard  for  solids  and  liquids 
is  pure  water.  When  we  say  that  the  specific  gravity  of  iron  is 
7.5,  we  mean  that  a  piece  of  iron  weighs  7.5  times  as  much  as  an 
equal  bulk  of  water;  so  we  say  alcohol  has  a  specific  gravity  of  .8; 
that  is,  any  volume  of  alcohol  weighs  .8  as  much  as  the  same 
volume  of  pure  water.  The  following  list  of  specific  gravities  of 
a  few  common  substances  may  be  of  use  to  the  student: 


Pure  water 

1.00 

Cork    - 

•24 

Alcohol 

.8 

Pine  wood 

.66 

Turpentine 

.87 

Ice 

.92 

Olive  oil 

92 

Marble 

2.8 

Milk 

1.03 

Iron 

7.5 

Mercury 

-       13.6 

Lead 

-      11.4 

Gold 

-      19.4 

Platinum 

-      22.06 

COMMON    ILLUMINANTS.  163 

a  temperature  which  varies  for  different  kinds 
of  oil ;  this  degree  of  temperature  is  known  as  the 
flashing  point ;  at  a  somewhat  higher  temperature  the 
liquid  burns  continuously,  this  is  known  as  the  fire 
test  point.  Evidently  the  use  of  oil  of  a  low  flashing 
point  is  attended  by  great  danger  from  the  liability  of 
the  mixture  of  air  and  vapor  within  the  oil  holder  to 
explode.  In  many  parts  of  the  United  States  and  in 
Europe,  there  are  legal  enactments  specifying  the  low- 
est flashing  point  that  is  permitted  in  oils  offered  for 
public  sale.  The  writer  has  found  in  the  market 
varying  grades  of  kerosene,  of  flashing  points  ranging 
from  75°  F.  to  135°  F.  ;  and  of  fire  test  as  low  as  110° 
F.  :  and  as  high  as  300°  F. 

Danger  from  Kerosene  Lamps. — The  strin- 
gency of  the  laws  has  done  much  to  restrict  the  sale  of 
light  oils  ;  and  it  is  pleasing  to  contemplate  that  acci- 
dental explosions  in  lamps  are  now  infrequent.  With 
the  best  of  oil,  however,  careless  management  of  the 
lamp  may  lead  to  disastrous  results.  The  common 
practice  of  extinguishing  the  flame  by  blowing  down 
the  chimney  often  causes  ignition  in  the  oil  chamber, 
in  which  case  an  explosion  is  almost  inevitable.  Allow- 
ing a  lamp  to  burn  itself  out  is  a  dangerous  practice  ; 
the  wick  smoulders,  and  a  spark  or  a  glowing  ember 
may  reach  the  oil  chamber,  and  cause  a  destructive 
explosion.  Some  improved  forms  of  lamps  are  pro- 
vided with  extinguishers;  and  others  have  an  auto- 
matic attachment  by  which  the  flame  is  put  out  if  the 
lamp  be  overturned.  With  the  best  of  contrivances, 
and  under  the  most  favorable   conditions,  great  care 


KM  DOMESTIC    SCIENCE. 

in  the  management  of  the  lamp  is   essential  to  safety. 

Coal  Gas  is  used  in  large  towns  as  an  illuminant. 
It  consists  of  the  volatile  matter  of  coal.  The  pro- 
duction of  gas  is  carried  on  at  the  central  works,  the 
gas  being  then  distributed  through  underground  mains 
to  the  consumers.  Good  gas  is  a  cleanly,  convenient, 
and  an  efficient  material  for  illumination  ;  though  its 
presence  in  the  house  entails  certain  dangers  demand- 
ing constant  vigilance  on  the  part  of  the  inmates.  An 
accidental  escape  of  gas  into  the  rooms  may  form  with 
the  air  an  explosive  mixture  ;  and  the  smallest  amount 
of  coal  gas  in  the  air  of  the  house,  must  be  regarded 
as  a  poisonous  addition.  The  inhalation  of  any  con- 
siderable amount  of  coal  gas  produces  asphyxia  and 
speedy  death.  It  is  well  for  us  that  the  substance 
possesses  a  disagreeable  odor ;  for  by  it  we  may  often 
recognize  the  presence  of  the  poison,  and  we  should 
seek  to  preserve  our  sensitiveness  to  its  effects.  The 
gas  is  consumed  at  convenient  points  along  the  line  of 
the  supply  pipes,  burners  of  different  forms  being 
employed;  the  commonest  burners  are  the  fish-tail, 
the  bat's  wing,  and  the  Argand.  Gas  burners  may 
be  provided  with  an  electric  attachment,  so  that  the 
passage  of  a  current  from  a  local  battery  opens  the 
valve,  thus  allowing  the  gas  to  pass,  and  ignites  it  as 
it  issues.  With  such  a  contrivance,  it  is  only  neces- 
sary to  press  the  circuit  button,  which  may  be  located 
in  any  convenient  place,  and  the  gas  is  turned  on  and 
lighted.  A  second  push  stops  the  flow  of  gas,  and,  of 
course,  extinguishes  the  light. 

Water  gas  is  the  name  of  another  illuminant,  which 


COMMON    ILLUMINANTS.  165 

is  produced  by  the  decomposition  of  steam  through 
contact  with  incandescent  carbon.  The  oxygen  from 
the  steam  unites  with  the  carbon  to  form  carbon  mon- 
oxide, while  the  hydrogen  of  the  steam  is  freed. 
Such  a  mixture  of  hydrogen  and  carbon  monoxide 
burns  with  considerable  heat,  but  with  little  light ;  it 
is  necessary  therefore  to  enrich  the  gas,  and  this  is 
accomplished  by  mixing  it  with  the  vapors  of  naphtha, 
gasoline,  or  other  highly  volatile  mineral  oils. 

VapOP  Gas. — Another  method  of  using  the  vapors 
of  light  oils  as  illumiuants  consists  in  passing  a  current 
of  air  through  such  liquids,  whereby  the  air  becomes 
saturated  with  combustible  vapors ;  in  this  state  it  is 
conveyed  through  pipes  to  the  place  desired  and  there 
burned  in  ordinary  gas  burners.  The  apparatus  used 
in  the  production  of  this  vapor  gas  is  simple  and  port- 
able ;  it  may  be  operated  in  any  dwelling  house.  Care 
is  requisite  in  using  the  gas,  for  dangerous  explosions 
have  occurred  from  the  premature  lighting  of  the 
vapor  laden  air. 

Ventilator  Burner.  — All  the  methods  of  house 

lighting  thus  far  considered  possess  the  serious  defect  of 
contributing  largely  to  the  pollution  of  the  atmos- 
phere.* Various  forms  of  ventilator  burners  have 
been  made ;  these  are  designed  to  carry  away  through 


*Dr.  Youmans  says  : — "  A  candle  (six  to  the  pound)  will  consume 
one-third  of  the  oxygen  from  10  cubic  feet  of  air  per  hour,  while 
oil  lamps  with  large  burneis  willcnange  in  the  same  way  70  feet 
per  hour.  As  tl  e  degrees  of  change  in  the  air  correspond  with 
the  amomt  of  light  evolved,  it  is  plain  that  gas  illumination 
alters  the  air  most  rapidly.  A  cubic  foot  cf  coal  gas  consumes 
from  2  to  2  and  a  half  cubic  feet  of  oxygen,  and  produces  1  to  2 


166  DOMESTIC    SCIENCE. 

flues  the  objectionable  products  of  combustion  ;  but 
all  of  such  contrivances  are  expensive  and  inconvenient, 
and  none  of  them  have  come  into  very  general  use. 
Vitiation  of  the  atmosphere  is  inevitable  while 
methods  of  illumination  are  direct[y  dependent  upon 
processes  of  combustion. 

Electric  Lights. — Such  objections  are  inapplicable 
in  the  case  of  electric  lighting.  Electric  lamps  are  of 
two  kinds,  the  arc  lamp  and  the  incandescent  lamp. 
In  the  are  lamp  (figure  70)  the  light  results  from  the 
passage  of  a  strong  current  through  rods  of  gas  carbon 
set  end  to  end,  which  are  separated  at  the  place  of 
contact.  Some  carbon  particles  become  volatilized 
through  the  great  heat  caused  by  the  current,  these 
form  an  incandescent  bridge  between  the  separated 
rods.  The  arc  light  is  in  favor  for  illuminating  streets 
and  large  buildings.  For  illumination  on  a  smaller 
scale,  however,  the  incandescent  lamp  (figure  71)  is 
preferable.  This  consists  of  a  globe  of  glass,  sealed, 
and  containing  some  inert  gas  such  as  nitrogen  or  car- 
bon dioxide,  which  will  not  support  combustion.  A 
fine,  hair-like  filament  of  carbon,  B,  is  placed  within 
the  globe,  the  ends  connecting  with  binding  screws,  to 
which  the  line  wires  of  the  electric  circuit  can  be 
joined.  As  the  illuminating  effect  is  not  due  to  the 
chemical  energy  of  combustion,  it  is  plain  that  this 
method  of  lighting  does   not   result  in  vitiation  of  the 

cubic  feet  of  carbonic  acid.  Thus  every  cubic  foot  of  gas  burned 
imparts  to  the  atmosphere  1  cubic  foot  of  carbonic  acid,  and 
charges  100  cubic  feet  with  1  per  cent,  of  it  making  it  unfit  to 
breathe.  A  burner  which  consumes  4  cubic  feet  of  gas  per  hour 
spoils  the  breathing  qualities  of  400  cubic  feet  of  air  in  that  time." 


COMMON    ILULM1NANTS. 


167 


air.  Incandescent  lamps  may  be  operated  under 
water,  and  in  this  way  aquaria  may  be  beautifully  and 
brilliantly  illuminated. 

Waste  of  Energy  in  Illumination.— Even  the 

best  of  our  methods  of  artificial  illumination  are  wofully 


Fig.  70. 
Electric  arc  lamp. 


Fig.  71. 
Incandescent  electric  lamp. 


wasteful  of  energy.  This  is  largely  due  to  the  fact 
that  much  of  the  energy  developed  by  combustion  or 
through  electrical  resistance,  manifests  itself  as  heat 
instead  of  as  light.     Lamps  are  intended  primarily  as 


168  DOMESTIC    SCIENCE. 

sources  of  light,  and  not  as  heating  devices,  yet  the 
results  of  recent  experiments  by  Professor  Langley 
show  that  99  per  cent,  of  the  energy  of  candle  and 
lamp  flames  is  lost  as  far  as  illuminating  effect  is  con- 
cerned ;  and  that  in  electric  lighting,  fully  50  per  cent, 
of  the  total  energy  fails  to  appear  as  light. 

The  Fire-fly'S  Light. — Experiments  are  now  in 
progress  to  test  various  methods  of  producing  light 
with  a  minimum  of  loss  through  heat.  Upon  this 
subject  considerable  interest  has  of  late  been  stirred 
by  the  phenomena  attending  the  fire -fly's  glow,  and 
other  examples  of  natural  phosphorescence.  At  pres- 
ent, man  is  unable  to  produce  light  equal  in  intensity 
to  that  of  the  fire -fly,  without  an  accompanying  tem- 
perature of  nearly  2000°  F.  ;  yet  the  light- giving 
power  of  the  insect  named  is  exercised  without  devel- 
opment of  sensible  heat. 

Referring  to  his  experiments  on  the  fire-fly's  light, 
Professor  Langley  says:  "We  repeat,  that  Nature 
produces  this  cheapest  light  at  about  one  four -hun- 
dredth part  of  the  cost  of  the  energy  which  is  ex- 
pended in  the  candle-flame,  and  but  at  an  insignificant 
fraction  of  the  cost  of  the  electric  light,  which  is  the 
most  economic  light  which  has  yet  -been  devised :  and 
that  finally  there  seems  to  be  no  reason  why  we  are 
forbidden  to  hope  that  we  may  yet  discover  a  method 
(since  such  a  one  certainly  exists,  and  is  in  use  on  the 
small  scale),  of  obtaining  an  enormously  greater  re- 
sult than  we  now  do  from  our  present  ordinary  means 
for  producing  light." 


COMMON    ILLUMINANTS.  169 


REVIEW. 


1.  Which  are  the  principal  oils  used  for  illumination  ? 

2.  What  is  kerosene  ? 

3.  Define  ''flashing  point:"  "fire  test  point." 

4.  Show  the  value  of  high  flashing  and  fire  test  points  in 
illuminating  oil. 

5.  Discuss  coal  gas  as  an  illuminant. 

6.  Water-gas. 

7.  Vapor  gas. 

8.  What   great  advantage  has  electric  illumination  over  the 
methods  which  depend  upon  combustion  ? 

9.  Which  are  the  two  principal  kinds  of  electric  lamps  ? 

10.  Describe  the  arc  lamp. 

11.  The  incandescent  lamp. 

12.  Show  the  great  waste  of  energy  in  the  ordinary  methods 
of  household  illumination. 

13.  Name  some  instances  of  natural  phosphorescence. 

14.  State  what  you  know  of  Langley's  experiments  on  the 
fire-fly's  light. 


PART  II. 


WATER. 


WATER ITS     OCCURRENCE.  173 


CHAPTER    15. 

WATER ITS    OCCURRENCE. 

Water  Widely  Distributed.— Water  is  indispen- 
sable in  many  of  the  processes  of  life ;  and  in  domes- 
tic operations  it  is  a  prime  necessity.  Without  it,  the 
intricate  machinery  of  civilization  would  be  inactive ; 
and  all  physical  forms  of  life — the  bodies  that  serve 
as  tenements  for  deathless  spirits — would  cease  to 
exist.  Indeed,  the  structure  of  even  the  dead  things 
of  earth  depends  largely  upon  the  presence  of  water. 
In  each  of  the  three  great  divisions  of  created  things, 
minerals,  plants,  and  animals,  water  is  present  as  an 
essential  constituent. 

Water  in  Minerals. — In  minerals  it  forms  a  very 
considerable  proportion  of  the  total  composition,  and 
in  many  cases  gives  to  the  mineral  bodies  their  char- 
acteristic color  and  form.  To  illustrate  this,  take  a 
crystal  of  copper  sulphate, — blue  vitriol,  or  blue  stone, 
as  it  is  commonly  called  :  carefully  heat  it  in  an  iron 
spoon,  or  better,  in  a  clean,  dry  test  tube.  Very  soon 
steam  is  seen  rising  from  the  crystal ;  in  the  tube  this 
vapor  condenses  on  the  colder  part  of  the  glass,  and 
may  there  accumulate  till  it  gathers  in  drops  and 
trickles  down*  the  tube  in  a  stream.  Now  that  the 
water  has  been  expelled,  instead  of  the  beautiful, 
transparent  "blue  stone,"  we  have  left  only  a  grayish 
powder,  entirely  undeserving  of  the  popular  name.  A 


174  DOMESTIC    SCIENCE. 

drop  of  water  added  to  this  powder  will  partially 
revive  the  azure  tint,  but  the  transparency  and  the 
symmetrical  form  have  gone  forever.  The  experiment 
teaches  us  that  the  presence  of  water  is  essential  to 
the  crystalline  arrangement  of  particles  within  the 
mass.  A  transparent  piece  of  alum  treated  in  the 
same  way  will  evolve  large  quantities  of  liquid,  and 
will  assume  the  appearance  of  a  white,  opaque  pow- 
der— the  "  burnt  alum  "  of  the  druggists.  Chemical 
analysis  has  proved  that  water  is  ordinarily  present  in 
the  minerals  named  below,  as  specified : 

Per  cent,  water. 

Calcium  sulphate  (gypsum)  -  -  20.9 

Copper  nitrate  ....  30.1 

Copper  sulphate  (blue  vitriol)  -  .  36.1 

Zinc  sulphate  (white  vitriol)  -  43.9 

Iron  sulphate  (green  vitriol)  -  -  45.3 

Borax  .....  47.1 

Soda  alum         -  -  -  -  -     .  47.3 

.  Magnesium  sulphate  (Epsom  salts)        -  51.2 

Sodium  sulphate  (Glauber  salts)  .-  55.9 

Sodium  carbonate  (washing  soda)  -  62.9 

Water  Ol  Crystallization. — The  common  desig- 
nation of  water  so  combined  in  minerals  is  "  water  of 
crystallization.''  By  mere  exposure  to  dry  air,  many 
of  the  salts  named  in  the  table  allow  some  part  of  the 
contained  water  to  escape ;  such  process  is  called 
efflorescence.  To  observe  this,  take  a  few  clear  crystals 
of  Glauber  salts,  or  of  washing  soda ;  put  them  in  an 
open  dish,  and  set  in  a  warm,  dry  atmosphere;  the 
substance  soon  loses  its  transparency  and  becomes 
opaque  and  friable.  This  property  of  solids  contain- 
ing  water  of    crystallization   is   well   known    to    the 


WATER ITS    OCCURRENCE.  175 

dealers  in  such  substances ;  grocers  and  druggists 
usually  store  efflorescent  salts  in  tight  cases,  so  as  to 
prevent  the  escape  of  the  water  of  crystallization,  and 
a  consequent  decrease  in  weight.  Washing  soda,  if 
exposed  in  open  vessels,  may  lose  over  half  its 
weight. 

Water  Absorbed  by  Minerals.— Beside  the  water 

commonly  combined  in  mineral  bodies,  and  forming 
an  essential  constituent  of  the  same,  large  quantities 
of  the  liquid  are  sometimes  absorbed  and  mechanically 
retained  by  minerals.  Coal  frequently  contains  even 
ten  per  cent,  of  water.  Ores  taken  from  the  mines, 
though  seemingly  dry,  are  often  so  heavily  laden  with 
water  as  to  necessitate  a  drying  process  preliminary  to 
the  furnace  treatment. 

Water  in  the    Vegetable    Kingdom. — In  the 

kingdom  of  plants  water  is  no  less  widely  distributed 
nor  less  essential  as  an  item  of  their  composition.  Its 
presence  in  vegetable  bodies  may  be  easily  demon- 
strated. Place  within  a  dry  test  tube  a  chip  of  wood, 
a  little  sawdust,  starch,  or  any  other  plant  product — 
better  select  an  apparently  dry  substance,  that  the 
illustration  may  be  the  more  impressive  ; — now  apply 
heat,  taking  care  not  to  char  or  blacken  the  substance ; 
soon  water  is  evolved  as  steam,  this  condenses  upon 
the  cold  portion  of  the  tube. 

Water  in  Fresh  Plant  Products.— The  follow- 
ing table  exhibits  the  proportion  of  water  in  certain 
fresh  vegetable  substances,  the  figures  being  the  aver- 
age results  of  numerous  analyses  by  the  author  and 
others  : 


176 


DOMESTIC    SCIENCE. 


Per  cent.  Water 

Pine  wood  (Utah) 

40 

Utah  apple  wood 

42 

Timothy 

70 

Meadow  grass 

72 

Lucern 

75 

Potatoes 

75 

Red  clover 

79 

White  elover 

81 

Grapes 

81 

Beets 

82 

Apricots 

83 

Apples 

84 

Carrots 

85 

Gooseberries 

86 

Strawberries 

87 

Cabbage 

89 

Turnips 

91 

Cucumbers 

97 

Water-melons 

98 

Water  in  Air-Dried  Plant  Products. — Through 

exposure  to  the  air,  part  of  this  constituent  water  will 
be  lost,  but  even  in  air- dried  vegetable  products,  very- 
large  proportions  of  water  remain,  as  will  be  seen 
from  this  table  ;  the  figures  represent  average  amounts 
as  found  by  examinations  of  numerous  samples : 


Per 

oent  water 

Meadow  grass  hay 

- 

15 

Red  clover  hay 

- 

16 

Dried  pine  wood 

15 

Dried  wheat  straw 

.  - 

16 

Wheat  kernel 

- 

15 

Indian  corn 

- 

13 

Rye  kernel 

- 

15 

Barley 

- 

14 

Oats 

- 

13 

Buckwheat 

- 

13 

Peas 

- 

14 

Rice 

- 

13 

Oatmeal 

- 

10 

Cornmeal 

- 

13 

WATER ITS    OCCURRENCE. 


177 


Absorption  of  Water  by  Plants.— Water  is  the 

medium  by  which  the  nutritive  matters  of  the  soil  are 
carried  into  the  body  of  the  plant.  The  roots  of  com- 
mon plants  ramify  through  the  soil  in  great  abund- 
ance ;  the  main  root  giving  off  many  branches,  which 
in  turn  divide,  and  subdivide  till  they  become  finer 
than  hairs.     The  root  hairs  are  in  close   contact  with 


Fig.  72. 
Rootlet  with  roothairs;  rootlet 
with  adhering  soil. 


Fig.  73. 

Pressure  guage  attached  to 

a  growing  plant. 


the  soil ;  so  close  indeed  that  in  many  cases  it  is  pos- 
sible to  separate  the  adherent  soil  from  a  root  that  has 
been  taken  from  the  ground,  only  by  vigorous  shaking 
and  thorough  washing. 

Figure  72  (right  sketch)  shows  the  appearance  of  a 
wheat  rootlet  with  adhering  soil  just  as  it  was  taken 
from  the  earth ;  and  the  left  sketch  exhibits  the  same 


178  DOMESTIC    SCIENCE. 

after  thorough  washing  to  remove  the  soil.     The  nu- 
merous root-hairs  are  distinctly  shown.      Through  the 
roots  large  quantities  of  water  are  absorbed. 
Force    of   Ascending"    Sap. —  The  liquid  rises 

through  the  vessels  of  the  stem  in  the  form  of  sap,  and 
in  doing  so  exerts  a  surprising  force.  There  is  a 
method  of  forcibly  demonstrating  this  (see  figure  73). 
If  a  pressure  guage  consisting  of  a  bent  tube  B,  with 
mercury  in  the  bulb  C,  be  attached  to  the  stem  of  a 
growing  plant  A  cut  off  near  the  ground,  the  rising 
sap  will  lift  the  column  of  mercury.  In  an  operation 
of  this  kind,  Dr.  Hales  found  that  the  pressure 
exerted  during  the  spring  of  the  year  by  a  young 
grape  vine  supported  a  column  of  mercury  32^  inches 
high.  This  corresponds  to  a  column  of  water  36^ 
feet  in  height  or  to  a  pressure  of  16 \  pounds  to  the 
square  inch.  Hofmeister  found  that  a  common  sting- 
ing nettle  similarly  tested,  supported  a  column  of 
mercury  14  inches  high,  due  to  a  pressure  of  7  pounds 
per  square  inch.  The  water  so  absorbed  is  distributed 
throughout  the  entire  structure  of  the  plant ;  many  of 
the  solid  matters  which  enter  the  plant  in  solution  are 
retained  within  the  vegetable  cells ;  while  the  water 
itself  escapes  through  the  countless  stomata  of  the 
leaves. 

Water  in  Animal   Bodies. — in    the  bodies  of 

animals  water  abounds.  A  very  large  proportion  of 
the  meats,  eggs,  and  milk  we  buy  is  water;  this  will 
be  seen  from  the  following  table  : 


WATER ITS    OCCURRENCE.  179 

Per  cent,  water. 

Fresh  mutton  contains  -  71 

beef  -  -  73 

veal  -  -  75 

pork  -  -  76 

fish  -  -  80 

fowl  -  73 

egg  -  -  74 

milk  -  -  87 

The  bodies  of  many  of  the  lower  animals  consist 
mainly  of  water.  Agassiz,  a  scientist  of  high  repute, 
examined  the  body  of  an  aurelia  (one  of  the  jelly- 
fishes),  from  the  Atlantic  coast  of  this  country;  when 
alive  the  creature  weighed  30  lbs.,  but  when  thor- 
oughly dried  its  body  yielded  but  half  an  ounce  of 
solid  matter, — showing  over  99.8  water. 

Water  in  Human  Tissues. — it  has  been  proved  that 

the  average  human  body  contains  water  to  the  extent 
of  from  two-thirds  to  three -fourths  of  its  weight.  The 
proportion  of  water  present  in  different  organs  and 
products  of  the  body  will  be  seen  from  the  following 
exhibit : 


Per  cent,  water 

Human  teeth 

10 

"       bones 

13 

"       muscles 

75 

"        brain 

79 

"       blood 

79  to  80 

bile 

88 

milk 

88  to  89 

"       gastric  juice 

97  to  98 

"        perspiration 

98  to  99 

"        saliva 

99  to  99.5 

To  supply  the  body  with  the  requisite  amount  of 
water,  a  man  of  average  size  has  to  imbibe  about  three 
and    a   half   pounds  of  the  liquid    daily ;  this   would 


180  DOMESTIC    SCIENCE. 

amount  in  a  year  to  over  127  gallons.  It  is,  of  course, 
not  necessary  that  this  quantity  of  water  be  actually 
drunk,  as  a  very  large  part  of  it  is  supplied  from  the 
food. 


REVIEW. 

1.  Show  the  indispensability  of  water  in  many  of  the  pro- 
cesses of  life. 

2.  Prove  that  water  is  an  essential  constituent  of  many  min- 
erals. 

3.  What  is  meant  by  water  of  crystallization  ? 

4 .  Give  examples  of  minerals  containing  large  proportions  of 
water. 

5.  Explain  efflorescence. 

6.  What  do  you  know  of  the  occurrence  of  water  in  plants . 

7.  Give  percentages  of  water  in  fresh  and  air- dried  plants. 

8.  How  is  water  absorbed  by  plants  ? 

9.  Describe  a  demonstration  of  the  pressure  exerted  by  rising 
sap  in  plants. 

10.  State  the  results  of  experiments  of  this  kind  on  certain 
plants. 

11.  Give  illustrations  of  the  occurrence  of  water  in  animal 
bodies. 

12.  What  do  you  know  of   the  occurrence  of   water  in  the 
human  body  ? 


WATER bOME    OP    ITS    USES.  181 


CHAPTER   16. 

WATER SOME    OF    ITS    USES    AND    PROPERTIES. 

Extensive  Uses  of  Water.— Aside  from  forming 

so  extensive  and  important  a  constituent  of  minerals, 
plants,  and  animals,  the  uses  of  water  are  many  and 
varied.  In  each  of  its  three  physical  states,  as  a 
liquid  (water  itself),  as  a  solid  (ice),  and  as  vapor 
(steam),  it  proves  of  inestimable  service  to  man. 

Water,  in  the  form  of  running  streams  furnishes 
us  a  continual  source  of  power.  Each  tiny  drop 
pushes  against  the  wheel,  and  the  current  grinds  our 
corn  and  weaves  our  c'oth ;  drives  our  saws  and 
planes,  and  forces  open  the  vaults  in  which  Nature  has 
stored  her  wealth  of  sugar  and  nectar,  of  oil  and  of 
wine.  In  its  ocean  depths,  it  forms  an  efficient  and 
easily  used  road  of  travel  between  distant  lands ;  and 
in  both  stream  and  sea  it  constitutes  a  home  for 
countless  forms  of  animal  life,  of  value  to  us  for  food 
and  ornament. 

As  Ice,  it  is  to  us  a  cheap  and  an  effective  protection 
against  decomposition  ;  it  stands  guard  over  things 
most  perishable,  and  successfully  repulses  the  ever 
eager  spirits  of  decay  and  destruction.  In  this  form, 
too,  it  is  held  in  reserve  upon  the  mountain  tops  till 
its  presence  is  most  needed  on  the  fields  and  farms  be- 
low ;    and   then,   bursting   away  its  frozen  bands,  it 


182  DOMESTIC    SCIENCE. 

hastens  down  with  a  merry  babble  and  a  joyous  laugh, 
like  the  voice  of  a  happy  child  awakening  from  peaceful 
dreams  to  pleasant  play.  It  carries  joy  and  comfort 
in  its  course ;  the  thirsty  plants  lift  up  their  heads  at 
its  approach  and  smile  with  thankfulness  ;  the  laden 
beast  is  refreshed,  and  the  heart  of  man  is  gladdened. 
As  Steam,  it  drives  the  wheel  of  civilization,  and 
has  done  much  to  put  the  stamp  of  progress  upon  the 
present  age,  and  to  establish  the  superiority  of  God- 
given  mind,  over  all  else  upon  earth.  Its  effects  have 
surpassed  the  achievements  of  the  fabled  giants  of  old, 
who  were  said  to  run  a  mile  at  a  stride,  and  to  carry 
houses  upon  their  backs.* 

Neutral  Properties  of  Water.— in  physical  pro- 
perties, water  is  the  perfection  of  adaptability  to  the 
needs  of  man.  In  the  most  of  its  characteristics,  it  is 
the  type  of  neutrality,  being   odorless,  without  color, 


*  Water  is  the  common  carrier  of  creation.  It  dissolves  the  ele- 
ments of  the  soil,  and,  climbing  as  sap  up  through  the  deli.-ate 
capillary  tubes  of  the  plant,  furnishes  the  leaf  "with  the  material 
of  its  growth.  It  flows  through  the  body  as  blood,  floating  to 
every  part  of  the  system  the  life-sustaining  oxygen,  and  the  food 
necessary  for  repairs,  and  for  building  up  the  various  parts  of  the 
'  house  we  live  in.'  It  comes  in  the  clouds  as  rain,  bringing  to  us 
the  heat  of  the  tropics,  and  tempering  our  northern  climate,  while 
in  spring  it  floats  the  ice  of  our  rivers  and  lakes  away  to  warmer 
seas  to  be  melted.  It  washes  down  the  mountainside,  levelling 
its  lofty  summit,  and  bearing  mineral  matter  to  fertilize  the  valley 
beneath.  It  propels  waterwheels,  works  forges  and  mills,  and 
thus  becomes  the  grand  motive  power  of  the  arts  and  manufac- 
tures. It  flows  to  the  sea,  bearing  on  its  bosom  ships  conducting 
the  commerce  of  the  world.  It  passes  through  the  arid  sands, 
and  the  desert  forthwith  buds  and  blossom  as  the  rose.  It  limits 
the  bounds  of  fertility,  decides  the  founding  of  cities,  and  directs 
the  flow  of  trade  and  wealth. 

Dr.  Steele. 


WATER SOME    OF    ITS    USES.  183 

and  devoid  >i  taste.  High  flavors  and  sweets  are  not 
always  pleasant  to  the  palate,  and  the  most  subtle  per- 
fumes are  at  times  sickening  and  even  injurious  in 
their  effects.  If  water  possessed  positive  properties  of 
taste  and  smell,  all  our  foods,  into  the  composition  of 
which  water  so  largely  enters,  and  in  the  cookery  of 
which  it  plays  so  important  a  part,  would  partake 
of  the  universal  flavor,  their  qualities  would  be  in  all 
cases  modified,  and  in  many  instances  destroyed 
thereby. 

Water  and  Heat. — The  properties  of  water  under 
the  influence  of  heat  have  been  dwelt  upon  in  a  pre- 
ceding chapter.  Its  high  specific  heat,  whereby  its 
temperature  changes  are  modified  and  retarded,  the 
great  amount  of  heat  rendered  latent  in  the  fusion  of 
ice  and  in  the  formation  of  steam,  with  some  of  the 
resulting  good  effects,  have  also  received  attention. 

Freezing  Of  Water. — In  passing  from  a  liquid  to 
a  solid  form,  that  is  in  freezing,  water  observes  a 
strange  and  an  anomalous  behavior.  Solidification,  or 
freezing,  is  the  result  of  cooling,  and  is  usually  at- 
tended by  contraction  in  bulk.  The  principle  that 
•'heat  causes  expansion  and  cold  causes  contraction," 
applies  to  water  at  certain  temperatures  only.  Above 
4°  C.  or  39.2°  F.,  water  expands  by  heating:  below 
that  temperature  it  expands  by  cooling ;  so  that  a 
piece  of  ice  is  larger  than  the  mass  of  water  from  which 
it  was  produced.  The  ice  is  therefore  specifically 
lighter  than  the  water  ;  and  as  a  consequence  ice  floats 
in  water.  If  the  contraction  of  water  by  cold  con- 
inued   to  the   point  of  congelation,  there  would  be  a 


184  DOMESTIC    SCIENCE. 

constant  rise  of  warm,  and  a  fall  of  cold  water  in  the 
body  of  the  liquid  undergoing  the  freezing  process, 
till  the  whole  would  become  solid,  and  in  the  case  of 
a  lake,  sea,  or  ocean,  all  living  things  therein  would 
be  killed.  Farther, — if  ice  sank  as  fast  as  formed  in 
lakes  and  seas,  it  would  be  beyond  the  reach  of  the 
sun's  rays,  and  many  tropical  summers  would  be  re- 
quired to  thaw  the  ice  of  one  temperate  winter.  As 
it  is,  however,  ice  being  a  poor  conductor  of  heat,  the 
surface  layer  actually  protects  the  warmer  water  below 
from  undue  cooling. 

By  reason  of  the  expansion  of  freezing  water,  frost 
is  a  most  valued  servant  to  the  farmer,  breaking  up 
the  hardened  clods,  and  exposing  large  surfaces  of 
soil  to  the  vivifying  action  of  the  air.  In  an  analog- 
ous way  the  rock-masses  of  the  hills  are  burst  asunder, 
and  thus  they  are  prepared  for  rapid  disintegration 
and  speedy  conversion  into  fresh  and  fertile  soils. 

Ice  Crystals. — Freezing  is  essentially  a  crystalliz- 
ing process,  and  the  microscope  will  reveal  in  the 
snowflake  and  the  ice  block  a  symmetry  of  parts 
analogous  to  that  of  the  stony  crystals  of  earth.  The 
unaided  eye  perceives  the  beauties  of  the  hoar  frost  on 
pavement  and  window  pane ;  the  glistening  spangles 
suggest  flowers,  fruit,  and  leaves  ;  surely  the  winter  is 
not  without  its  flora.  To  examine  the  snow  flowers 
microscopically,  choose  a  cold  day  when  comparatively 
dry  flakes  are  falling ;  catch  them  upon  cold  pieces  of 
colored  glass ;  do  not  touch  them  or  breathe  upon 
them  ;  then  examine  with  a  low  magnifying  power. 
Figure  74    shows  a  very  few  of    the    almost   infinite 


WATER SOME    OF    ITS    USES. 


185 


forms  of  the  crystals  of  frozen  water.  Each  of  them 
is  composed  of  six  main  parts  or  groups  of  parts,  all 
arranged  upon  a  plan  of  seemingly  perfect  symmetry.* 
The  prevailing  angle  at  which  the  spangles  are  set 
with  regard  to  each  other  is  the  same  in  all.  Why 
this  constancy?  Surely  the  Great  Creator  delights  in 
order.  Should  not  we,  His  children,  learn  to  ap- 
preciate the  beauties  of  His   wondrous  workmanship? 


Fig.  74. 
Crystals  of  ice. 


Beautifying1  Effect    of  Water.— it    would  be 

difficult  to  find  a  substance  that  does  more  than  water 
does   in  beautifying    and    diversifying  the  surface    of 


♦Professor  Tyndall  describes  a  certain  fall  of  snow  crystals 
witnessed  by  him  as  "a  shower  of  frozen  flower-;  all  of  them 
were  six-leaved;  some  of  the  leaves  threw  out  lateral  ribs  like 
ferns;  some  were  rounded;  others  arrowy  and  serrated;  but  there 
was  no  deviation  from  the  six-leaved  type," 


186  DOMESTIC    SCIENCE. 

our  earth  and  its  surroundings.  The  heavenly  tints 
of  morn  and  eve,  the  varying  effects  of  cloud  and  mist, 
the  glorious  bow,  which  seals  the  covenant  of  the 
Creator  with  His  children,  and  which  must  ever  re- 
main an  object  of  our  deepest  wonder  and  admiration  ; 
— all  are  largely  due  to  the  water  drops  suspended  in 
the  air.'  The  pretty  spangles  of  the  hoar  frost,  the 
ferns  and  leaves  of  the  winter  window,  the  stars  and 
flowers  of  the  snow-flake  and  the  ice  block,  show  the 
operations  of  the  building  forces  of  Nature  according 
to  the  laws  of  strict  and  perfect  science. 


REVIEW. 

1.  State  the  three  physical  states  of  water. 

2.  Show  some  of  the  uses  of  water  in  the  liquid  state. 

3.  Show  the  uses  served  by  water  in  the  solid  state, — as  ice. 

4.  State  some  of  the  uses  of  steam. 

5.  What  you  know  of  the  physical  properties  of  water? 

6.  Describe  the  exceptional  behavior  of  water  in  freezing. 

7.  Show  the  great  benefits  resulting  to  the  world  from  the 
difference  between  the  specific  gravity  of  water  and  that  of  ice. 

8.  Describe  the  action  of  frost  in  disintegrating  rock  and  soil. 

9.  Describe  the  freezing  process. 

10-     What  do  you  know  of  the  crystals  of  ice  and  snow? 
11.    Show  some  of  the  effects  of  water  in  beautifying  the  earth 
and  air. 


bOURCES    OF    WATER.  18' 


CHAPTER  17. 

SOURCES    OF    WATER. 

Primary   Sources  of  Water. — In  view  of  the 

many  and  diverse  uses  of  water  in  the  operations  of 
life,  it  is  gratifying  to  note  that  Nature  has  supplied  it 
in  unstinted  quantity,  liberally  distributed  throughout 
the  world.  The  water  we  use  is  primarily  derived 
from  the  clouds,  through  the  medium  of  rain  and 
snow.  A  part  of  the  water  that  falls  upon  the  surface 
of  the  earth  speedily  returns  to  the  vaporous  condi- 
tion, and  is  again  if  ted  into  the  atmosphere.  The 
inclination  of  the  ground  surface  and  the  nature  of  the 
soil  with- respect  to  its  permeability  to  liquids,  will 
determine  what  proportion  of  the  remainder  will  run 
off  in  the  forms  of  streams,  and  what  part  will  sink 
and  percolate  through  the  soil.  That  portion  of  the 
surface  water  that  flows  away  in  streams  goes  to  swell 
the  rivers  of  the  neighborhood  ;  and  a  part  of  that 
which  sinks  into  the  soil,  serves  to  supply  the  roots  of 
growing  plants  ;  the  rest  of  the  percolating  water  will 
probably  re -appear  at  some  distant  place  in  the  form  of 
springs.  In  the  case  of  porous  soil,  this  percolation  is 
rapid,  so  that  in  some  regions  it  is  found  necessary  to 
collect  the  rain  water  in  cisterns  as  it  falls,  and  store 
it  for  general  use. 

Rain  Water    is  particularly  serviceable  for  many 
household  operations  on  account  of  its  softness,  which 


188 


DOMESTIC    SCIENCE. 


is  a  result  of  its  freedom  from  mineral  impurities. 
To  procure  pure  rain-water,  the  collection  should  be 
made  in  an  open  space ;  the  water  that  comes  to  us 
from  the  house  pipes  is  usually  almost  black  from  the 
impurities  that  it  has  washed  from  the  roof. 

Springs    and  Artesian  Wells.— Much   of  the 
water  that  serves    our  domestic   purposes   is   derived 


Fig.  75. 
Hillside  spring. 

from  springs.  These  are  numerous  in  hilly  regions, 
providing  the  rainfall  is  adequate  and  the  soil  of 
proper  kind.  As  the  water  falls  from  the  clouds 
upon  the  hills,  a  part  of  it  sinks  into  the  soil  and  des- 
cends till  it  reaches  a  stratum  that  is  impermeable  to 
the  passage  of  water.  Here  its  downward  course  is 
checked,  and  the  water  flows  along  the  impermeable 
layer  as  along  a  floor.  If  this  should  lead  it  to  the 
surface  of  a  hill,  there  the  water  will  issue  as   a  Hill- 


SOURCES    OF    WATER. 


189 


side  Spring  (see  figure  75).  If,  however,  the  course 
of  the  floor -stratum  should  be  such  as  to  carry  the 
water  below  the  laud  surface  in  the  valley,  (as  il- 
lustrated in  figure  76)  the  liquid  may  continue  beneath 
the  earth  till  it  finds  or  forms  a  fissure  in  the  earth ; 
from  this  it  escapes  as  a  Fissure  Spring,  or  Main 
Spring  (b).      By  boring  or  driving  into  the  soil,  such 


Fig.  76 
Fissure  spring  B,  and  artesian  well  C. 

subterranean  streams  may  be  tapped,  the  water  then 
rises  through  the  pipe,  which  may  be  regarded  as 
an  artificial  fissure;  this  constitutes  the  Artesian 
Well  (c).* 


♦Artesian  wells  derive  their  name  from  the  fact  that  wells  of 
the  sort  were  first  made  in  the  province  of  Artois,  France.  In 
some  parts  of  the  United  States,  the  name  "flowing  wells"  is 
often  applied  to  them.  In  many  sections  of  Utah,  wells  of  this  sort 
are  very  common;  some  of  them  yield  per  minute  from  50  to  100 
gallons  of  water. 


190  DOMESTIC    SCIENCE. 

Liquids  Seek  Their  Levels. — The  force  that 
causes  a  rise  of  water  through  the  fissure  or  pipe  will 
be  understood  from  the  following  simple  observations. 
If  a  tube  of  glass  open  at  both  ends  be  inserted  in  a 
vessel  of  water,  the  liquid  rises  within  the  tube  to  the 

level  at  which  it  stands  in 
the  outer  vessel. f  Figure 
77  represents  a  central  ves- 
sel communicating  with  a 
number  of  tubes  of  differ- 
ent sizes  and  shapes.  If 
water  be  poured  into  such 
a  vessel  it  will  reach  the 
same  level  in  each  of  the 
Flg-  Tl'  tubes.     This  fact  warrants 

Equilibrium  of  liquids. 

the  oft-used  expression, 
''Liquids  will  find  their  level. '?  It  is  impossible  to 
carry  a  liquid  by  its  own  pressure  above  the  level  of  its 
source. 

By  way  of  further  illustration,  prepare  the  appar- 
atus sketched  in  figure  78.  Provide  a  good -sized 
funnel,  and  attach  to  it  a  rubber   tube.     At  the  other 


t  If  the  tube  be  of  small  caliber  the  water  will  rise  to  a  level 
higher  than  that  of  the  liquid  in  the  vessel;  this  is  due  to  the 
adhesion  between  the  glass  and  the  water.  Such  adhesive  force 
when  operating  in  very  small  tubes  is  known  as  capillary  attraction 
the  term  "  capillary"  being  derived  from  the  Latin  capillus,  mean- 
ing a  hair,  ami  so  applied  because  the  phenomenon  manifests 
itself  most  strongly  in  small  or  hair-like  tubes.  It  is  by  capillary 
attraction  that  a  piece  of  bread  absorbs  milk  when  dipped  in  the 
liquid;  tba  a  sponge  absorbs  water;  that  a  towel  dries  our  flesh. 
We  know  how  efficient  is  an  un-glazed  towel  over  one  in  which 
the  pores  are  closed  by  an  impermeable  gloss. 


SOURCES    OF    WATER. 


191 


end  of  the  rubber  insert  a  glass  pipe.  Hold  the  at- 
tached tube  so  that  the  free  end  is  level  with  the 
funnel-top,  and  pour  water  into  the  funnel;  the  li- 
quid rises  to  the  same  height  in  the  tube.  Now  lower 
the  tube,  so  that  the  opening  is  below  the  water  level 
•  in  the  funnel :   the  water 

now  issues  as  from  a 
fountain,  and  leaps  nearly 
to  the  level  of  its  source 
in  the  funnel.  The  fric- 
tion of  the  flowing  liquid 
against  the  tube,  the  re- 
sistance of  the  air  through 
which  it  rises,  and  the 
force  of  the  descending 
drops  as  they  strike  the  ris- 
ing stream,  prevent  the 
Fio.  78  exact     level    being     fully 

Liquid  rising  to  the  level  of  its   reached.   So  in  the  case  of 
source,  the  fissure  spring   or  the 

artesian  well,  the  tendency  of  the  escaping  stream  is 
to  throw  itself  to  the  level  of  its  source  in  the  sur- 
rounding hills.  The  right-hand  tube  in  figure  77  illus- 
trates the  same  phenomenon. 

Intermittent  Springs. — There  are  some  springs 
that  discharge  water  at  certain  seasons  only  ;  these  are 
known  as  intermittent  springs.  It  is  believed  that 
they  are  due  to  some  such  a  formation  as  is  shown  in 
figure  79.  During  a  wet  season,  water  would  perco- 
late through  the  soil  and  gather  in  the  cavern,  A;  as 


192 


DOMESTIC     SCIENCE. 


soon  as  it  rose  above  the  highest  point  in  the  exit  pas- 
sage, B,  the  water  would  flow  to  the  opening  and 
there  appear  as  a  spring.  The  flow  would  continue 
till  the  water  sank  below  the  entrance  to  the  tube,  B  ; 
and  then  would  cease  till  the  cavern  had  again  filled  to 


Fig.  79. 
Possible  cause  of  intermittent  springs. 

the  former  level.  This  operation  is  explained  by  the 
principle  of  the  siphon,  page  35.  The  action  may 
be  well  illustrated  with  the  simple  apparatus  here 
shown  (figure  80).  A  glass  vessel  is  provided  with  a 
bent  delivery  tube.  If  water  be  poured  into  the  recep- 
tacle A,  till  the  level  of  the  liquid  is  above  the  highest 
point  of  the  tube  B,  the  water  will  run  through  the  tube 


SOURCES    OF    WATER. 


193 


and  the  flow  will  continue  till   the  liquid  in  the  large 
vessel  has  sunk  below  the  entrance  to  the  pipe. 

Intermittent  springs  may  be  due  to  other  conditions 
than  the  occurrence  of  such  a  cave.     In  a  case  similar 

to  that  shown  in  figure 
81,  during  high  water 
season,  the  level  of  the 
subterranean  water  may 
reach  A,  then  aflow  would 
occur  at  S  :  as  the  under- 
ground water  level  sinks, 


Fig.  80. 


however,    say    to    B,  the 


Apparatus  to  illustrate  a  possible    spring    would    cease    ac- 


cause  of  intermittent  springs. 


tion . 


Spring  Water   for   Domestic   Use.  —  Potable 

water  from  springs  is  generally   well  adapted  for  do- 


Fig.  81. 
Another  cause  of  intermittent  springs. 

mestic  purposes.     The   chief  cause  of  objection  to  its 
use  is  its  hardness.     Water  from   fissure   springs  and 


194  DOMESTIC    SCIENCE. 

artesian  wells  is  generally  free  from  surface  filth,  the 
subterranean  supply  being  deeply  set.  Good  spring 
water  is  generally  clear  and  well  aerated. 

River  Water. — The  water  of  rivers  usually  con- 
tains much  mineral  matter,  and  is,  in  consequence, 
hard  :  it  is  seldom  free  from  organic  impurity.  This 
contamination  is  the  direct  consequence  of  the  drain- 
age exercised  by  rivers  upon  the  land  through  which 
they  flow.  Large  quantities  of  organic  filth  reach  the 
rivers  from  manured  soils ;  and  in  marshy  districts  the 
running  waters  are  frequently  dark  from  the  peaty 
matters  dissolved  from  the  ground.  In  the  case  of 
large  rivers  with  towns  and  cities  upon  their  banks, 
vast  quantities  of  sewage  are  discharged  into  the 
streams,  rendering  the  water  entirely  unfit  for  drink- 
ing or  culinary  purposes. 

Natural  Purification  of  Running  Water. — it 

is  true,  certain  processes  of  natural  purification  are  in 
continual  operation,  and  these  greatly  mitigate  the 
contaminating  effects  above  referred  to.  The  atmos- 
pheric oxygen,  which  freely  dissolves  in  water,  unites 
with  the  products  of  organic  decay  there  present,  and 
thus  renders  them  in  time  comparatively  inert.  Run- 
ning water  tends,  therefore,  to  purify  itself,  but  the 
completeness  with  which  this  will  be  accomplished  de- 
pends upon  the  amount  and  the  nature  of  the  dissolved 
matters,  and  the  proportion  of  free  oxygen  present. 
The  extent  of  this  self- purification  process  is  a  matter 
of  considerable  uncertainty.  Some  chemists  have 
asserted  that  a  sewage -laden  stream  will  free  itself 
from   all   impurity   in   flowing  but  a  few  miles,   and 


SOURCES    OF    WATER.  195 

others  have  as  strongly  denied  the  possibility  of  such 
a  thing.*  A  rapid  stream  flowing  in  a  stony,  precip- 
itous channel,  with  its  waters  continually  disturbed 
and  broken  up,  and  thus  more  thoroughly  exposed  to 
the  atmospheric  action,  would  be  far  more  rapidly 
purified  than  would  a  sluggish  stream. 

A  Local  Example  may  be  cited.  The  Jordan 
river,  flowing  past  Salt  Lake  City,  received  during  the 
summer  of  1892  considerable  of  the  city  sewage, 
owing  to  the  inadequate  capacity  of  the  pumping  ap- 
paratus at  the  sewer  station.  Analyses  conducted  by 
the  author  on  samples  of  water  taken  above  and  below 
the  sewer,  showed  a  great  pollution  from  sewage ;  and 
the  water  of  the  river  did  not  purify  itself  to  any 
appreciable  degree  in  a  flow  of  3^  miles.  (See  chap- 
ter 20.) 

Wells. — In  country  towns,  running  streams,  which 
have  already  received  attention,  and  wells,  which  are 
now  to  be  considered,  are  the  only  common  sources  of 
supply.  Surface  or  shallow  wells  are  usually  made  by 
digging  or  boring  into  the  earth  till  an  impermeable 
layer  is  reached.  Upon  this  the  subterranean  water 
rests,  and  the  well  merely  taps  the  supply.  At  such 
slight  depths  the  pressure  is   insufficient  to  cause  the 


*  In  one  of  the  reports  of  the  English  Commissioners  on  River 
Pollution,  it  is  declared  that  "the  oxidation  of  the  organic  matter 
in  sewage  proceeds  with  extreme  slowness,  even  when  the  sew 
age  is  mixed  with  a  large  volume  of  unpolluted  water;  and  that 
it  is  impossible  to  say  how  far  such  water  must  flow  before  the 
sewage  matter  becomes  thoroughly  oxidized.  It  will  be  safe  to 
infer,  however,  *  *  *  that  there  is  no  river  in  the  United 
Kingdom  long  enough  to  effect  the  destruction  of  sewage  by  oxi- 
dation." 


196  DOMESTIC    SCIENCE. 

water  to  rise  of  itself  as  from  a  deep  artesian  pipe. 
The  most  of  such  wells,  when  new,  yield  fairly  good 
water,  hard  or  soft  according  to  the  depth  of  the  shaft 
and  the  nature  of  the  surrounding  soil ;  but  after  a 
short  time,  the  wells  become  contaminated  through 
surface  drainage,  It  is  evident  that  the  dangers  of 
pollution  are  greatly  diminished  in  the  case  of  deep 
wells  ;  the  streams  that  supply  these  being  purified  by 
their  percolation  through  the  soil.  All  surface  wells 
should  be  frequently  cleansed.  The  openings  should 
be  properly  protected  by  curbs  and  covers,  against  the 
accidental  entrance  of  foreign  bodies.  The  best  of 
wells  may  be  fouled  through  negligence. 


REVIEW. 

1.  What  becomes  of  the  water  that  falls  upon  the  earth  from 
the  clouds  ? 

2.  For  what  properties  is  rain  water  remarkable  ? 

3.  Explain  the  formation  of  hillside  springs. 

4.  Of  fissure  springs. 

5.  Why  does  water  rise  through  the  pipe  of  an  artesian  well  ? 

6.  Describe  a  demonstration  of  the  rising  of  water  to  a  com- 
mon level  in  communicating  vessels  of  different  forms  and  sizes. 

7.  Explain  capillary  attraction. 

8.  Describe  a  simple  illustration  of  water  rising  to  the  level 
of  its  source. 

9.  What  is  an  intermittent  spring  ? 

10.  Describe  a  piece  of  simple  apparatus  to  illustrate  a  possi- 
ble cause  of  intermittent  springs. 

11.  State  your  opinion  as  to  the  cause  of  intermittent  springs. 

12.  What  do  you  know  as  to  the  purity  of  river  water  ? 

13.  State  what  you  know  of  the  self-purification  of  running 
water. 

14.  Show  the  necessity  of  care  in  maintaining  the  cleanliness 
of  surface  wells. 


A    SOLVENT    FOR    SOLIDS.  197 


CHAPTER     18. 

WATER,    A    SOLVENT    FOR    SOLIDS  *,    HARDNESS    OF    WATER. 

Solutions  Of  Solids  in  Liquids.— Water  has  been 
called  "Nature's  universal  solvent,"  aud  this  appella- 
tion is  justified  by  the  fact  that  there  are  few  if  any 
substances  that  can  be  kept  in  contact  with  water 
without  yielding  something  to  its  dissolving  action. 
In  undergoing  solution  in  water,  the  particles  of  a  solid 
body  become  so  separated  that  the  water  is  uniformly 
diffused  among  them.  In  a  solution,  the  solid  parti- 
cles are  so  finely  divided  and  so  thoroughly  incorpor- 
ated with  the  liquid  that  the  highest  powers  of  the 
microscope  fail  to  reveal  them.  The  liquid  may  be 
filtered,  but  the  dissolved  solid  passes  through  with 
the  menstruum  ;  and  in  all  physical  respects  the  liquid 
and  solid  appear  as  a  single  substance. 

Solvent  Action  of  Water;  Saturated  Solu- 
tions.— The  solvent  power  of  water  toward  different 
solids  is  of  varying  intensity.  Thus,  a  given  quantity 
of  water  will  at  ordinary  temperatures  dissolve  five 
times  as  much  sugar  as  it  will  alum.  When  water  has 
dissolved  of  any  solid  the  full  amount  that  it  is  capa- 
ble of  dissolving,  the  liquid  is  said  to  be  saturated, 
and  the  energy  of  the  dissolving  action  decreases  as 
the  saturation  point  is  approached.  In  domestic 
operations  the  solvent  power  of  water  is  of  very  great 
service.  Through  it  we  make  our  pickling  brines, 
and  prepare   sweetened   and   flavored   dishes  in  great 


108  DOMESTIC    SCIENCE. 

variety ;  but  for  it  we  could  not  successfully  scrub  a 
floor,  or  even  wash  our  hands. 

Effect  Of  Temperature. — The  power  of  water  to 
dissolve  solids  is  greatly  influenced  by  changes  of  tem- 
perature;  as  a  rule  heat  increases  the  energy  of  solu- 
tion, though  to  this  there  are  exceptions ;  thus,  hot 
water  will  dissolve  many  times  more  sugar  than  will 
cold  water  ;  yet  ice  water  will  dissolve  twice  as  much 
lime  as  will  water  at  a  boiling  temperature. 

Effect    of   Finely    Dividing5   the    Solids.— in 

attemping  the  solution  of  any  solid,  the  substance 
should  be  pulverized  as  finely  as  possible,  as  by  such 
means  much  greater  surface  is  exposed  to  the  action  of 
the  liquid.  This  may  be  illustrated  by  simple  means. 
In  an  experiment,  the  writer  took  a  lump  of  rock  salt, 
an  equal  weight  of  ordinary  table  salt,  and  the  same 
amount  of  fine  sifted  salt.  Each  of  these  was  placed 
in  a  vessel  by  itself ;  then  an  equal  quantity  of  water 
was  added  to  each ;  at  intervals  the  vessels  were 
shaken,  all  being  subjected  as  nearly  as  possible  to 
the  same  degree  of  agitation.  The  sifted  salt  was 
completely  dissolve  in  twenty  minutes;  the  table  salt 
had  disappeared  in  forty -three  minutes,  by  which  time 
the  size  of  the  lump  had  scarcely  diminished ;  and 
after  five  hours  part  of  the  rock  salt  was  still  undis- 
solved. 

Effect  Of  Agitation. — The  solution  of  a  solid 
may  be  much  hastened  by  frequently  agitating  the 
mixture,  either  by  shaking  or  stirring.  If  the  liquid 
be  kept  at  rest,  those  portions  that  immediately  sur- 
round the  solid  substance  become  saturated,  and  being 


WATER,    A    SOLVENT    FOR    SOLIDS.  199 

thus  increased  in  density  they  tend  to  remain  at  the 
bottom,  so  that  mixture  can  take  place  only  by  the 
slow  process  of  diffusion  ;  and  the  unsaturated  liquid 
above  is  kept  away  from  the  solid  body.  In  an  ex- 
periment to  illustrate  this,  the  author  took  two  equal 
quantities  of  alum.  These  were  placed  in  separate 
flasks,  and  to  each  the  same  quantity  of  water  was 
added.  The  contents  of  one  flask  were  shaken  at  in- 
tervals ;  the  other  was  allowed  to  remain  still.  In  the 
first  vessel  the  solid  was  entirely  dissolved  in  three- 
quarters  of  an  hour,  while  in  the  second,  part  of  the 
alum  still  remained  solid  after  twenty -two  days. 
Solids  Placed   in    Upper  Part  of  Liquid. — In 

preparing  any  aqueous  solution  in  large  quantity,  it 
is  well  to  place  the  finely  divided  solid  in  a  basket  or 
a  bag  of  coarse  material,  and  suspend  this  in  the  upper 
part  of  the  liquid.  As  the  water  in  contact  with  the 
solid  becomes  saturated,  its  specific  gravity  is  increased, 
and  in  consequence  it  sinks,  thus  giving  place  to  other 
liquid  particles.  As  an  illustration  of  the  efficiency  of 
this  method  the  following  results  of  experiment  are  in- 
structive. A  weighed  quantity  of  salt  was  placed  in 
an  open  vessel,  and  a  measured  amount  of  water  was 
poured  upon  it.  An  equal  quantity  of  salt  was  sus- 
pended in  a  cage  of  wire  gauze,  just  beneath  the  sur- 
face of  a  like  measure  of  water  in  another  vessel.  In 
the  first,  a  quantity  of  solid  remained  undissolved  after 
three  weeks;  in  the  second,  all  the  solid  had  disap- 
peared from  view  in  forty -seven  minutes. 

Solids  dissolved  in  Natural  Waters. — in  con- 
sequence of  the  great  solvent  energy  of  water,  it  is 


200 


DOMESTIC    SCIENCE. 


impossible  to  find  as  a  natural  occurrence  a  specimen 
of  pure  water.  It  will  be  profitable  to  consider  briefly 
the  amount  and  kind  of  the  solid  matters  in  natural 
waters.  The  following  table  shows  the  amount  of 
total  solid  matter  in  certain  specimens  of  water,  ex- 
pressed in  grains  of  solids  per  gallon  of  water.  The 
gallon  here  used  is  the  imperial  gallon,  equal  to  277.27 
cubic  inches  ;  such  a  gallon  of  pure  water  at  the  tem- 
perature of  62°  F.  weighs  10  pounds,  avordupois,  or 
70,000  grains. 

Source.  Total  solids,       Authority, 

(grains  per  gallon.) 


River  Loka,  Sweden 

0.05 

Wells. 

Boston,  U.  S.,  water  works 

1.22 

Johnston. 

Loch  Katrine,  Scotland 

2.3 

Wanklyn. 

Schuylkill  River  at  Philadephia 

4.26 

Johnstjn. 

Detroit  River,  Michigan    . 

5.72 

Johnston. 

Ohio  River  at  Cincinnatti 

6.74 

" 

Loire  at  Orleans 

9.38 

«« 

Danube,  near  Vienna 

9.87 

" 

Lake  of    Geneva 

10.64 

" 

River  Rhine  at  Basel 

11.3 

Wanklyn. 

Thames  at  London     . 

18.5 

" 

Average  of  12  artesian  wells, 

Provo,  Utah 

18.6 

The  Author. 

Salt  Lake  City  supply 

16.92 

" 

Spring  water,  Provo,  Utah 

23.3 

" 

Artesian  well,  near  Salt  Lake 

City  (west) 

43.27 

« 

Artesian  well,  near  Salt  Lake 

City  (south) 

23.47 

" 

Spring,  near   Salt  Lake  City 

(south)          .... 

42.68 

" 

Spring,  near  Draper,  Utah 

22.16 

(C 

Spring,  Tooele,  Utah 

24.96 

u 

Jordan  River,  below  Salt  Lake 

City* 

64.15 

" 

*This  large  amount  of  solid  matter  in  the  waters  of  the  Jordan 
river  consists  in  great  part  of  organic  impurity.  As  will  be  seen 
by  reference  to  the  table  of  hardness,  (on  a  subsequent  page  of 
this  chapter)  this  water  is  not  exceedingly  hard. 


WATER,    A    SOLVENT    FOR    SOLIDS.  201 

Source.  Total  solids,        Authority, 

(grains  per  gallon.) 


Formation  Springs,  Idaho 

27.8 

The  Author. 

Octagon      Spring,     at       >oda 

Springs,  Idaho 

126.66 

" 

Well  water,  Gunnison,  Utah   . 

148.01 

" 

"Ninety  percent.  Spring,"  at 

Soda  Springs,  Idaho 

.      198.41 

" 

Warm  Springs,  Spanish   Fork 

Canyon,  U^ah 

413.72 

" 

Atlantic  Ocean     .... 

2,688.00 

AVanklyn. 

*SaltLake 

11,777.64 

The  Author. 

tDead  Sea 

17,064.42 

" 

The  amounts  of  solid  material  as  expressed  above 
may  seem  very  great,  but  the  actual  percentage  is 
small ;  10  grains  of  solids  to  the  imperial  gallon 
represents  only  .014  of  1  per  cent,  by  weight. 

Hardness  Of  Water. — The  presence  of  mineral 
matter  in  water  may  impart  to  the  liquid  the  property 
of  hardness,    which  may  be  concisely   defined   as  the 

*  The  water  of  the  Great  Salt  Lake  is  subject  to  great  fluctuations 
as  regards  its  contents  of  solid  matter,  owing  to  the  variations  in 
amount  of  supply  and  in  the  rate  of  evaporation.  In  1849  the  lake 
water,  according  to  Dr.  Gale,  contained  22.282  per  cent,  of  solids; 
that  time,  however,  was  one  of  phenomenally  low  water,  and 
consequently  of  great  concentration.  In  December,  1885,  the 
author  found  the  water  to  contain  16.7162  per  cent,  solids,  and  in 
August,  1889,  it  held  19.5576  per  cent.  The  mean  of  these  two 
analyses  shows  18.1369  per  cent.,  or  11,777.64  grains  of  solid  matter 
per  gallon.  During  the  summer  of  1892  the  waters  of  the  lake 
became  still  farther  concentrated.  The  average  of  four  analyses 
on  different  samples  collected  in  September,  1892,  showed  14,623.23 
grains  of  dissolved  solids  per  gallon  . 

t Great  discrepancy  exists  among  published  accounts  of  the 
solid  contents  of  Dead  Sea  water.  Bernan  gives  14,025.48  grains 
per  gallon;  Captain  Lynch  collected  a  sample  at  a  depth  of  1110 
feet,  and  found  it  to  contain  18,902  grains  per  gallon.  The  amount 
given  above  (17,064  grains  per  gallon)  was  determined  by  the 
author  in  a  sample  taken  from  the  Dead  Sea  in  April,  1886,  by  Dr. 
J.  M.  Tanner,  of  Logan,  Utah. 
7 


202  DOMESTIC    SCIENCE. 

power  of  curdling  soap  without  the  formation  of  a 
lather.  The  minerals  most  effectual  in  causing  hard- 
ness are  compounds  of  calcium  and  magnesium.  Salts 
of  these  unite  with  the  fatty  acid**  of  the  soap,  form- 
ing insoluble  curdy  compounds,  and  all  the  lime  and 
magnesium  in  the  water  must  be  so  combined  before  a 
lather  can  be  produced.  A  large  amount  of  soap  is 
therefore  lost  so  far  as  any  cleansing  effect  is  concerned. 
The  hardness  of  water  is  usually  reckoned  in  terms  of 
this  soap  destroying  power.  It  has  been  adopted  as  a 
rule  among  chemists,  to  consider  the  soap  destroying 
effect  produced  by  1  grain  of  calcium  carbonate  in  a 
gallon  of  water  as  one  degree  (1°).  A  water  of  10° 
hardness  would  contain  therefore  10  grains  calcium 
carbonate  per  gallon,  or  the  equivalent  of  this  in  other 
soap  destroying  compounds. 

Permanent  and  Temporary  Hardness. — Lime 

carbonate  is  but  slightly  soluble  in  pure  water,  but 
dissolves  readily  in  water  containing  carbon  dioxide ; 
this  gas  is  present  in  most  natural  waters.  By  boiling 
water  so  charged,  the  carbon  dioxide  is  expelled,  and 
the  lime  carbonate  being  so  slightly  soluble  in  the 
water  after  boiling,  falls  as  a  solid  precipitate.  Look 
inside  a  much-used  tea  kettle:  there  will  be  found  a 


*In  a  chemical  sense,  soap  is  to  be  regarded  as  a  compound  of 
certain  alkalies  with  the  acids  of  fats.  The  fatty  acid  in  common 
soap  is  oleic  acid;  and  ordinary  hard  soap  is  chiefly  sodium 
oleate;  soft  soap  is  potassium  oleate.  In  contact  with  hard 
waters  the  soap  loses  its  sodium  or  potassium,  these  substances 
being  replaced  by  calcium  and  magnesium;  thus,  oleates  of  cal- 
cium and  magnesium  are  produced,  which  are  still  soaps,  though 
they  are  insoluble  in  water,  and  therefore  valueless  for  lathering 
purposes.     (See  chapter  36,  Part  IV.) 


WATER,    A    SOLVENT    FOR    SOLIDS. 


203 


heavy  deposit  of  lime  salts,  as  thick  scale  or  incrusta- 
tion. It  is  plain  from  this,  that  by  boiling  water  con- 
taining calcium  carbonate  in  solution,  the  hardness  of 
the  liquid  may  be  materially  diminished.  Hardness 
that  is  removable  by  boiling  is  called  temporary  hard- 
ness. Other  compounds  of  calcium,  such  as  the  sul- 
phate (gypsum)  and  the  chloride,  as  also  the  com- 
pounds of  magnesium,  impart  to  the  water  permanent 
hardness,  which  is  not  removed  by  simply  boiling  the 
liquid,  because  the  hardening  solids  are  not  thereby 
precipitated  from  solution. 

Examples  of  Hardness  of  Water. — For  general 

household  purposes,  soft  waters  are  the  best,  though 
for  many  operations  a  considerable  degree  of  hardness 
may  be  tolerated.  The  following  table  expresses  the 
hardness  of  several  natural  waters  : 

Degrees  of  hardness. 


-ource.                      Total. 

Perman- 

Tem- 

Authority. 

ent. 

porary. 

London  Thames                         16.5 

— 

— 

Wanklyn. 

Kirby  Shore,  Westmoreland  25. 

— 

— 

" 

Hillside  Spring,  Provo,Utah  17. 

5 

12 

The  Author. 

Well  Water,  Gunnison,Utah    6.5 

1.7 

4.8 

" 

Average,  9  artesian  wells, 

Provo,  Utah            -                15.2 

5.4 

9.8 

" 

Average,  11  artesian  wells, 

Salt  Lake  City      -               18.1 

10.7 

7.4 

" 

Salt  Lake  City  supply                 13.4 

6.9 

6.5 

" 

Artesian  well,  near  Salt  Lake 

City  (west)             -                 7.4 

1.2 

6.2 

" 

Artesian  well  near  Salt  Lake 

City  (south)            -                17.8 

7.1 

10.7 

" 

Spring  near  Salt  Lake  City 

(south)                     •                14.4 

10.3 

4.1 

" 

Spring  near  Draper,  Utah        13.1 

6.1 

7.0 

" 

Spring,  Tooele,  Utah                  18.5 

8.7 

9.8 

" 

Jordan  river,  below  Salt 

Lake  City               -              16.5 

10.8 

5.7 

" 

204  DOMESTIC    SCIENCE. 

It  is  to  be  remembered  that  the  hardness  of  water 
depends  largely  upon  the  kind  as  well  as  upon  the 
amount  of  solid  matter  present.  The  water  from  Gun- 
nison, Utah,  is  named  in  the  table  on  page  201  as 
containing  148.01  grains  of  solid  matter  to  the  gallon  ; 
yet  this  is  a  relatively  soft  water,  as  is  seen  from  the 
table  on  page  203,  which  shows  for  it  a  total  hardness 
of  but  6.5°,  and  of  this  4.8°  may  be  removed  by 
boiling,  leaving  a  permanent  hardness  of  but  1.7°. 
The  solid  contents  of  this  water,  however,  are  mostly 
compounds  of  the  alkalies.  The  water  here  referred 
to  is  remarkable  in  many  ways  ;  its  specific  gravity  is 
high,  and  though  it  is  constantly  used  as  a  potable 
water,  its  taste  is  tolerable  only  to  those  who  have  be- 
come accustomed  to  it. 

Supposed     Physiological     Effect    of     Hard 

Water. — The  continued  use  of  water  that  is  highly 
impregnated  with  salts  of  lime  and  magnesia  is  sup- 
posed to  be  a  cause  of  goitre  or  big  neck.  This  dis- 
order is  an  enlargement  of  the  thyroid  gland  in  the 
neck.*  From  its  prevalence  in  the  limestone  regions  of 
Derbyshire,  England,  it  is  popularly  called  "Derby- 
shire neck."  Most  recent  investigations  lead  to  the 
belief  that  the  potency  of  hard  waters  in  producing 
this  disorder  has  been  over  estimated.      Contaminated 


*  Johnston  reported  that  in  a  jail  at  Durham,  England,  all  the 
prisoners  suffered  from  neck  swelling.  An  examination  of  the 
water  there  used  showed  that  it  contained  77  grains  of  solids  per 
gallon,  mostly  compounds  of  magnesia  and  litn<  The  use  of  the 
water  was  then  discontinued,  a  purer  kind  being  substituted, 
containing  but  18  grains  of  solid  matter  per  gallon.  The  goitrous 
disorder  immediately  subsided. 


WATER A    SOLVENT    FOR    SOLIDS.  205 

water  may  favor  the  disease,  but  that  the  use  of  such 
water  is  the  sole  cause  can  scarcely  be  credited  in  the 
light  of  demonstrated  facts. 


REVIEW. 

1.  Explain  the  solvent  power  of  water. 

2.  What  is  meant  by  a  saturated  solution  ? 

3.  Show  the  effect  of  temperature  on  the  rapidity  of  solution. 

4.  Show  the  effect  of  finely  pulverizing  the  substance  to  be 
dissolved. 

5.  Show  the  effect  of  agitating  a  liquid  in  which  solution  is 
going  on. 

6.  Why  is  it  best,  in  preparing  a  solution  of  a  solid  in  a 
liquid,  to  keep  the  solid  near  the  surface  of  the  liquid  ? 

7.  What   condition    of   natural    waters    results    from    this 
universal  solvent  power  of  water  ? 

8.  Give  examples  of  the  amounts  of  solid  matter  in  different 
waters,  local  and  foreign. 

9.  What  do  you  know  of  the  variation  of  solid  contents  in  the 
water  of  the  Great  Salt  Lake  ? 

10.  What  is  hardness  of  water  ? 

11.  How  is  the  hardness  of  water  determined  ? 

12.  How  is  hardness  of  water  measured  ? 

13.  Explain  total  hardness,  permanent  hardness,  temporary 
hardness. 

14.  State  what  you  know  of  the  effect  of  hard  waters  on  the 
health  of  the  persons  using  such. 

15.  What  is  goitre  ? 


206  DOMESTIC    SCIENCE. 


CHAPTER    19. 

WATER, A    SOLVENT    FOR    GASES. 

Air  in  Water. — The  solvent  power  of  water  is  not 
confined  to  its  action  on  solids ;  gases  also  may  be 
dissolved  in  large  quantities.  The  commonest  gas- 
eous admixtures  in  ordinary  waters  are  the  consti- 
tuents of  air.  Much  good  results  from  such  solution 
of  air  in  water;  upon  the  atmospheric  gases  so  held, 
fishes  and  other  aquatic  animals  depend  for  respira- 
tion. It  is  a  popular  mistake  that  only  land -animals 
breathe  air :  without  this  medium  of  respiration  the 
tiniest  creature  of  the  sea  would  die.  A  living  fish 
placed  in  non -aerated  water  quickly  expires;  and  the 
same  result  follows  if  the  fish  be  kept  in  an  inadequate 
amount  of  water,  without  renewal ;  the  fish  then  dies 
from  suffocation  caused  by  its  own  respiratory  pro- 
ducts, just  as  a  man  shut  in  a  closed  room  from  which 
the  gaseous  emanations  of  his  body  cannot  escape, 
will  be  poisoned  by  his  own  breath.  A  strong  ex- 
ample of  our  subject  is  found  in  the  growth  of  the 
tiny  coral  animals.  These  belong  to  the  polyp  family, 
and  are  very  small  and  simple  in  bodily  structure. 
They  possess  the  power  of  extracting  the  calcareous 
matter  from  the  sea  water,  and  of  forming  from  the 
same  a  hard,  external  skeleton,  analogous  in  com- 
position and  use  to  the  shells  of  mollusks,  such  as 
oysters  and  snails.  Corals  usually  congregate  in 
great  numbers,    the   accumulations   of    their   external 


WATER ITS    OCCURRENCE.  207 

skeletons  forming  coral  reefs.  Such  reefs  are  found 
only  in  places  that  are  freely  exposed  to  the  action  of  the 
waves  :  the  little  polyps  seem  to  delight  in  the  break- 
ing of  the  surf,  and  the  whirl  of  agitated  waters. 
Farther, — they  are  never  found  living  at  a  great 
depth  ;  a  hundred  feet  seems  to  be  their  limit.  These 
peculiarities  seem  to  be  due  to  the  animals'  need  for 
air.  In  still  water,  or  at  a  great  depth,  the  coral  polyps 
would  be  deprived  of  air,  in  consequence  of  which 
they  could  not  survive ;  but  the  agitation  of  the  sur- 
face water  entangles  air  sufficient  for  their  use. 

Proportions  of  Atmospheric  Gases  in  Water. 

— It  is  remarkable  that  the  atmospheric  gases  do  not 
dissolve  in  the  proportion  in  which  they  exist  in  the 
air.  In  pure  air  there  will  be  found  about  20.9  per 
cent,  of  oxygen,  and  79.1  per  cent,  of  nitrogen;  the 
other  constituents  need  not  be  considered  in  this  con- 
nection (see  page  38).  Water  that  has  been  fully 
aerated,  however,  contains  the  atmospheric  gases  in 
the  proportion  of  32  per  cent,  oxygen  and  68  per  cent, 
nitrogen.  This  increased  amount  of  oxygen  is  of 
great  benefit  to  aquatic  animals,  the  nitrogen,  in  res- 
piration serving  merely  as  a  dilutent.*  To  drinking 
water,  the  dissolved  air  imparts  a  pleasing  and  some- 
what  pungent   taste.     This    fact   may    be  realized   by 

*It  has  been  discovered  by  Dr.  Hayes,  "  that  the  water  of  the 
ocean  contains  more  oxygen  near  its  surface  than  at  a  depth  of 
one  or  two  hundred  feet.  This  fact  has  probably  some  connec- 
tion with  the  comparative  scarcity  of  animal  life  at  great  depths. 
When  water  is  in  contact  with  an  atmosphere  of  mixed  gases,  it 
dissolves  of  each  a  quantity  precisely  equal  to  that  which  it 
would  have  dissolved  if  in  contact  with  an  atmosphere  of  this  gas 
alone."  Wells. 


208  DOMESTIC    SCIENCE. 

anyone  who,  for  contrast,  will  drink  for  a  time  water 
from  which  the  air  has  been  expelled  by  boiling. 

Solvent  Power  Affected  by  Temperature.— 

Inasmuch  as  heating  water  serves  to  expel  its  dissolved 
gases,  it  is  plain  that  a  rise  of  temperature  will  dimin- 
ish the  solvent  power  of  the  liquid  for  gases  :  this  view 
is  substantiated  by  the  following  facts:  Experiment 
has  shown  that  water  at  78°  C  is  able  to  hold  in  solu- 
tion 586  times  its  own  volume  of  dried  ammonia  gas ; 
at  59°  C  the  water  can  hold  727  volumes  ;  and  at  32° 
C.  it  may  contain  1050  volumes  of  the  gas.  A  solu- 
tion of  ammonia  gas  in  water  is  sold  as  "  aqua  am- 
monia,'' or  water  ammonia  (the  common  hartshorn  of 
the  shops).  By  warming  such,  large  volumes  of  the 
gas  will  be  given  off. 

The  ill -smelling  gas,  hydro  gen -sulphide,  is  soluble 
in  water;  indeed  the  waters  of  so-called  sulphur 
springs  are  usually  natural  solutions  of  hydrogen 
sulphide.  The  influence  of  temperature  upon  the 
solvent  power  of  water  for  this  gas,  is  illustrated  by 
the  following  facts :  At  78°  C.  one  volume  of  water 
dissolves  2.66  volumes  of  hydrogen  sulphide;  at  59° 
C.  water  dissolves  3.23  times  its  own  volume  of  the 
gas :  at  32°  C.  it  may  hold  4.37  volumes. 

Another  gaseous  substance  commonly  found  in 
natural  waters  is  carbon  dioxide.  At  14°  C.  water 
can  hold  in  solution  its  own  volume  of  this  gas  :  at 
0°  C.  it  may  contain  1.8  volumes. 

Solvent  Power  Affected  by  Pressure.— The 

pressure  to  which  liquids  are  subjected  greatly  affects 
their  power  of  solution  for  gases.     Thus  in  the  case  of 


WATER A    SOLVENT    FOR    GASES.  209 

carbon  dioxide,  under  a  pressure  of  one  atmosphere 
(15  lbs.  to  the  square  inch),  at  14°  C.  water  dissolves 
its  own  volume  of  the  gas  ;  under  a  pressure  of  two 
atmospheres,  (30  lbs.  to  the  square  inch)  the  temper- 
ature being  unchanged,  two  volumes  may  be  absorbed, 
and  so  on  ;  within  certain  limits  the  solvent  power  is 
directly  proportional  to  the  pressure. 

Soda  Water. — An  aqueous  solution  of  carbon 
dioxide  constitutes  the  so-called  soda  water.  By  the 
action  of  some  mineral  acid  (usually  sulphuric  acid) 
on  sodium  bicarbonate,  chalk,  or  marble  dust,  carbon 
dioxide  is  generated  in  great  quantity ;  the  gas  is 
conducted  into  a  stout  closed  vessel  containing  water; 
as  the  gas  accumulates,  the  pressure  increases ;  and  at 
the  same  time  the  water  being  kept  violently  agitated, 
the  gas  passes  into  solution.  It  will  be  held  captive 
by  the  water,  however,  only  as  long  as  the  pressure 
continues  ;  as  soon  as  the  liquid  is  drawn  from  the 
holder,  the  gas  escapes  giving  the  effervescent  and 
pungent  qualities  which  are  sought.* 

♦The  question  of  the  wholesomeness  of  soda  water  has  excited 
some  general  interest.  The  presence  of  small  quantities  of  car- 
bonated water  in  the  stomach  seems  to  produce  pleasing  and  ex- 
hilarating effects:  and  if  the  preparation  be  pure,  it  is  difficult  to 
see  what  harm  is  likely  to  result  from  its  moderate  use.  Some 
soda-water  makers  are  not  careful  to  use  pure  water;  and  are 
indifferent  to  the  cleanliness  of  their  apparatus.  It  is  possible 
too,  that  metallic  compounds  may  result  from  combinations  with 
the  material  of  the  holders  and  pipes.  The  admixture  of  flavor- 
ing syrups  is  objectionable  for  the  reason  that  the  purity  of  such 
preparations  cannot  be  relied  on,  and  the  coloring  matters  used 
to  impart  the  deceptive  tints  to  strawberry,  raspberry,  black- 
berry, and  other  syrups,  are  frequently  of  "a  deleteriouskind;  and 
farther,  the  habitual  taking  into  the  system  of  large  quantities  of 
saccharine  material  is  certainly  injurious  to  health. 


210  DOMESTIC    SCIENCE. 

There  are  many  natural  occurrences  of  carbonated 
waters :  to  such  class  belong  the  springs  of  Saratoga, 
New  York,  and  Seltzer,  Germany,  as  also  many  local 
springs.  (See  chapter  23.)  From  such  springs  are 
taken  the  so-called  natural  soda  waters,  "Seltzer," 
"Vichy,"  "  Appolinaris,"  and  "Congress." 

Injurious    Gases  Absorbed  by    Water. — The 

fact  of  the  readiness  with  which  gases  dissolve  in 
water,  should  restrain  us  from  using  for  drinking  pur- 
poses, water  that  has  stood  long  in  open  vessels. 
Water  that  has  been  exposed,  even  for  an  hour  or  two, 
to  the  air  of  a  closed  room,  will  be  found  to  be 
charged  with  the  gases  of  the  apartment ;  and  these 
may  be  of  the  most  deleterious  kind.  In  the  treat- 
ment of  the  sick,  precautions  are  necessary  that  the 
patients  drink  not  of  any  liquids  that  have  been  long 
exposed  to  the  air  of  the  room. 


REVIEW. 

1.  Prove  that  air  exists  in  water  in  a  state  of  solution. 

2.  Of  what  use  is  the  air  dissolved  in  water  ? 

3.  Explain  sj>me  of  the  conditions  under  which  coral  polyps 
grow. 

4.  What  do  you  know  of  the  proportion  in  which  the  most 
abundant  atmospheric  gases  dissolve  in  water  ? 

5.  Explain  the  effect  of  a  varying  temperature  on  the  solvent 
power  of  liquids  for  gases. 

6.  Illustrate  the  power  of  water  at  different  temperatures  to 
dissolve  ammonia  gas. 

7.  Hydrogen- sulphide. 

8.  Carbon  dioxide. 


WATER A    SOLVENT    FOR    GASES.  211 

9.  Explain  the  effect  of  pressure  on  the  solvent  powers  of 
liquids  for  gases. 

10.  How  is  the  so-called  soda  water  produced  ? 

11.  What  is  your  opinion  as  to  the  wholesomeness  of  "soda 
water?" 

12.  Show  the  danger  attending  the  drinking  of  liquids  that 
have  been  exposed  to  impure  air. 


212  DOMESTIC   SCIENCE. 


CHAPTER     20. 

ORGANIC    IMPURITIES    IN    WATER. 

Organic  Impurities  Deleterious. — The  impuri- 
ties most  to  be  feared  in  water  that  is  used  for  domestic 
purposes  are  of  an  organic  nature,- — that  is,  they  are 
products  of  vegetable  and  animal  decay.  An  average 
amount  of  mineral  impurities  need  not  render  water 
at  all  unfit  for  use.  A  water  containing  less  than  15 
grains  of  calcium  salts  to  the  gallon  is  usually  consid- 
ered good  ;  and  20  grains  of  such  solids  to  the  gallon 
is  not  an  unusual  amount ;  but  a  very  small  amount  of 
organic  impurity  may  render  the  water  unsafe  for 
drinking  purposes. 

Nitrogenous  Impurities  in  Water. — Organic 

matters  containing  nitrogen  are  most  deleterious.  It 
is  common  with  chemists  to  determine  this  organic  im- 
purity in  the  form  of  ammonia,  it  being  possible  to 
convert  such  nitrogenous  matters  into  ammonia,  and 
to  determine  the  amount  present  with  fair  accurary. 
The  ammonia  present  in  waters  as  a  result  of  decay 
that  has  already  taken  place  is  determined  els  free  am- 
mo?iia ;  the  rest  of  the  nitrogenous  organic  matter, 
which  may  be  decomposed  and  converted  into  ammonia 
by  the  analytical  process,  is  called  albuminoid  ammonia. 
Regarding  the  amounts  of  these  matters  allowable  in 
drinking  water  according  to  the  established  standard 
of  safety,  Mr.  Wanklyn  of  England,  a  generally  rec- 


ORGANIC    IMPURITIES    IN    WATER. 


"213 


ognized  authority  upon  this  subject,  has  said:  "I 
should  be  inclined  to  regard  with  some  suspicion  a 
water  yielding  a  considerable  quantity  of  free  am- 
monia, along  with  0.05  parts  of  albuminoid  ammonia 
per  million.  *  *  *  Albuminoid  ammonia  above 
0.10  per  million  begins  to  be  a  very  suspicious  sign, 
and  over  0.15  ought  to  condemn  a  water  absolutely." 
Below  are  exhibited  the  results  of  some  analyses  of 
natural  waters : 


Parts  per  million. 


Free 

Albuminoid 

Source.                     ammonia. 

ammonia. 

Authority. 

Town  water,  Manchester, 

England 

.01 

.06      J. 

A.  Wanklyn. 

Glasgow,  Scotland,  Loch 

Katrine 

.00 

.08 

" 

London  Thames,  at  high 

tide 

1.02 

.59 

" 

Emigration  Canyon  stream, 

Salt  Lake  valley 

.046 

.045  J.  T.  Kingsbury. 

Red  Butte  Canyon  stream 

.023 

.120 

" 

Parley's  Canyon  stream 

.010 

.060 

" 

Average  10  artesian  wells, 

Provo  City,  Utah 

2.11 

.18     The  Author. 

Average  16  surface  wells, 

Provo  City,  Utah 

.125 

.284 

" 

In -doors  pump,  Provo  City, 

Utah 

0.73 

5.40 

i< 

Artesian    well,  Spanish 

Fork,  Utah 

.72 

5.18 

" 

Average  13  artesian  wells, 

Salt  Lake  City,  Utah 

.669 

.22 

" 

Surface  well,  Salt  Lake  City 

3.28 

.34 

" 

City    water   mains,   Salt 

Lake  City 

.13 

.052 

" 

Artesian    well,  (B)  near  Salt 

Lake  City  (west)* 

6.4 

.076 

H 

Artesian  well  (C)  near  Salt 

Lake  City  (west) 

0.74 

.004 

" 

214.  DOMESTIC    SCIENCE. 


Parts  pei 

■  million. 

Free 

Albuminoi 

Source. 

ammonia. 

ammonia. 

Artesian  well  near  Salt  Lake 

City  (south) 

7.051 

.045   T 

Spring  near  Salt  Lake  City 

(south) 

0.084 

.017 

Spring,  near  Draper,  Utah 

0.211 

.171 

Spring,  Tooele,  Utah 

1.96 

2.65 

Authority. 


ChlOPine  in  Water. — Associated  with  organic  im- 
purity of  the  kind  described,  water  may  contain  large 
quantities  of  chlorine,  usually  combined  with  sodium 
as  common  salt,  or  with  other  alkaline  metals  as 
chlorides.  These  compounds  may  result  from  the 
presence  of  sewage  filth  or  drainage  from  cess-pools  ; 
though  the  discovery  of  chlorine  in  water,  unaccom- 
panied by  organic  impurity,  is  not  of  such  serious 
import. 

The  following  table  will  convey  an  idea  of  the  vary- 
ing  amounts    of  chlorine   in  different   waters.      The 


*It  will  be  observed  that  many  of  the  artesian  waters  of  which 
analytical  results  are  given  in  the  test,  show  excessive 
amounts  of  nitrogenous  impurity.  Such  contamination,  how- 
ever, is  far  less  dangerous  than  it  would  be  if  occurring  in  surface 
water,  for,  as  stated,  (page  216)  it  is  not  the  dissolved  organic 
matter  itself  that  constitutes  the  source  of  danger  in  waters  so 
polluted,  but  the  occurrence  of  living  organisms  and  germs  of 
disease  which  are  nourished  by  the  organic  filth.  Waters  spring- 
ing from  deep  sources  are  less  likely  to  be  infested  with  such  or- 
ganisms; and  during  the  prevalence  of  communicable  diseases  in 
any  place,  I  would  rather  drink  artesian  water,  though  compar- 
atively rich  in  dissolved  organic  matter,  than  surface  water  of 
greater  chemical  purity,  but  which  had  been  exposed  to  infection 
from  surface  filth.  Though  chemical  analyses  are  invaluable  in 
demonstrating  the  fitness  or  the  unfitness  of  water  for  .  domestic 
use,  such  analyses  do  not  tell  the  whole  story. 


ORGANIC    IMPURITIES    IN    WATER. 


215 


specifications  are  given  in  grains  per  imperial  gallon  of 
70,000  grains  : 


Source. 

Bala  Lake,  Wales 
Thames  at  London 
Average    22    surface    wells, 

ProYO  City,  Utah 
Average   8   artesian    wells, 

Provo  City.  Utah 
Average   8   artesian  wells, 

Salt  Lake  City,  Utah 
Artesian  well  (B)  near  Salt 

Lake  City  (west) 
Artesian  well  (C)  near  Salt 

Lake  City  (west) 
Artesian  well  near  Salt  Lake 

City  (south) 
Spring  near  Salt  Lake  City 

(south) 
Spring  near  Draper,  Utah 
Spring,  Tooele,  Utah 
Jordan  river,  Salt  Lake  City, 

150  yards  above  sewer 
Jordan  river,  Salt  Lake  City, 

150  yards  below  sewer 
Surface  spring,  Provo  City 
Artesian  well,  Spanish  Fork, 

Utah 
Salt  Lake  City  supply 


Chlorine. 
Grains  per  gallon. 
0.7 
1.2 

1.22 

2.029 

3.688 

1.092 

.435 

.205 

.629 
.239 
.205 

1.400 

1.598* 
.977 


.87 


Authority. 
Wanklyn. 

The  Author. 


*  The  Jordan  river  water  just  above  the  Salt  Lake  City  sewer 
shows  1.4  grains  pergallon  of  chlorine;  below  the  sewer  the  water 
holds  1.598  grains  per  gallon.  The  increase,  .198  grain  per  gallon 
m"St  have  been  derived  almost  wholly  from  the  effluent  sewage; 
and  this  amount  represents  more  real  danger  to  tl.e  users  of  the 
water  than  does  the  large  amount  contained  in  the  water  above 
the  sewer:  for  all  the  natural  waters  of  the  Salt  Lake  valley  are 
rich  in  dissolved  chlorine,  mainly  from  the  common  salt  and 
other  alkaline  chlorides  washed  from  the  soil.  Chlorine  in  water, 
known  to  be  derived  from  foul  sources,  threatens  danger  through 
the  probable  association  of  disease  germs. 


216  DOMESTIC    SCIENCE. 

Real  Danger  from  Organic    Impurity.— The 

presence  of  small  amounts  of  organic  matter  would 
not  of  itself  prove  a  source  of  injury  to  health.  The 
danger  lies  in  the  fact  that  living  organisms  nourish  in 
water  so  contaminated,  and  these  may  be  of  an  injur- 
ious type,  since  many  forms  of  contagious  disease 
have  been  proved  to  be  associated  with  the  existence  of 
such  organisms  within  the  system.  The  germs  of 
cholera,  small-pox,  and  many  forms  of  fevers,  thrive 
in  water  that  is  organically  impure.  Dr.  Cyrus  Ed- 
son,  the  well  known  sanitary  chemist  of  New  York, 
has  declared  his  belief  that  ninety -nine  per  cent,  of 
cholera  cases  are  propagated  through  the  medium  of 
drinking  water.  The  reports  of  the  sanitary  officials 
in  India  show  a  close  relationship  between  the  epidemic 
outbursts  of  cholera,  to  which  that  country  has  been 
frequently  subject,  and  the  use  of  polluted  drinking 
water.  Enteric  or  typhoid  fever  is  more  frequently 
spread  by  the  use  of  contaminated  water  than  in  any 
other  way.* 
Dysenteric   Affections  from  Impure  Water. 

— Dysenteric  and  diarrhoeal  affections  are  in  many 
cases  directly  traceable  to  polluted  water.  The  sample 
named  "In -doors  pump,   Provo  City,  Utah,"  in  table 

*  In  referring  to  typhoid  fever  as  a  result  of  the  use  of  water 
contaminated  with  filth,  Drs.  Huxley  and  Youmans  say:  "The 
instances  of  its  originating  in  this  way  are  too  numerous,  and 
have  been  too  clearly  traced  to  admit  of  a  doubt  of  the  fact;  nor 
does  mere  dilution  of  the  poison  remove  the  danger  as  the  follow- 
ing will  show:  A  recent  outbreak  in  an  English  town  was  traced 
to  the  milk  with  which  numerous  families  were  served,  and  it 
was  conclusively  proved  that  the  milk  was  poisoned  by  being 
stored  in  cans  that  had  been  washed  with  water  contaminated 
with  sewage  from  an  imperfect  drain." 


ORGANIC    IMPURITIES    IN    WATER.  217 

on  page  213,  was  taken  from  a  well,  provided  with  a 
curb  and  a  drainage  pipe.  The  water  was  used  in  a 
large  boarding  house,  and  the  fact  was  reported  that 
severe  dysentery  was  common  among  the  inmates.  An 
examination  of  the  well  was  made,  and  the  drain -pipe 
was  found  to  be  completely  choked,  so  that  the  foul 
wastes  made  their  way  back  to  the  well,  and  this  re- 
pulsive mixture  was  drunk.  The  pipe  was  cleared,  the 
well  thoroughly  cleansed,  and  the  derangements  in  the 
health  of  the  inmates  straightway  disappeared. 

Diarrhoea  Caused  by  Foul  Water. — Mr.  Wank- 

lyn,  the  English  analyst,  examined  water  from  a  well 
at  the  Leek  Workhouse,  and  found  it  to  contain  .02 
parts  of  free  ammonia,  and  .34  parts  of  albuminoid 
ammonia  per  million  of  water.  Of  this  occurrence  he 
says,  "In  the  Leek  Workhouse  there  has  been  for 
years  past  a  general  tendency  to  diarrhoea,  which 
could  not  be  accounted  for  until  the  water  was  exam- 
ined and  shown  to  be  loaded  with  vegetable  matter." 
He  adds,  "A  well  on  Biddulph  Moor,  a  few  miles  from 
Leek,  yielded  .05  grain  chlorine  per  gallon,  and  .03 
free,  and  .14  albuminoid  ammonia  per  million.  The 
persons  who  were  in  the  habit  of  drinking  this  water 
suffered  from  diarrhoea."* 


♦"Dissolved  or  suspended  organic  matter,  whether  of  vegetable 
or  animal  origin,  will  cause  diarrhoea.  In  the  recent  war,  great 
numbers  of  cases  occurred  from  the  use  of  marsh  or  ditch  water; 
the  sickness  ceased  when  wells  were  sunk." 

"Mineral  matters,  either  dissolved  or  suspended,  will  give  rise 
to  it  if  present  in  considerable  quantity." 

"Water  impregnated  with  nitrate  of  lime  will  produce  diarr- 
hoea.    Brackish  water  will  act  in  the  same  way." 

HUXI/ET  &  YOUMANS. 


218 


DOMESTIC    SCIENCE. 


Suspended  Matters   in  Well  Waters.  —  Well 

waters  are  often  contaminated  by  the  entrance  of  for- 
eign matters  because  the  openings  are  not  sufficiently 
protected.  The  author  has  examined  many  specimens 
of  water  from  wells  so  exposed,  and  is  convinced  that 
reckless  carelessness  exists  as  to  protecting  the  wells 
from  dust,   and    the   like.     Nearly   one -third   of    the 


Fig.  82. 
Suspended  matters  in  well  waters. 

waters  so  examined  have  been  found  to  contain  sus- 
pended particles,  which,  under  the  microscope,  reveal 
themselves  (figure  82)  as  partly  decayed  fibres  of 
straw  ;  cotton  ;  wool  (c)  ;  hair  (e)  ;  pollen  grains  from 
plants  (6)  ;  spores  of  fungi ;  scales  of  butterflies  and 
moths  (a).  Dr.  Parkes,  of  London,  referring  to  the 
results  of  his  examinations  of  water  in  that  great  city, 
says,    "Fibres  of  cotton,   wool,  or  linen,  starch  cells 


ORGANIC    IMPURITIES    IN    WATER. 


219 


(figure  82,  f)  macerated  paper,  human  hairs,  yellow 
globular  masses,  and  striped  muscular  fibre  (undi- 
gested meat)  (d),  with  squamous  epithelium  cells,  are 
all  indicative  of  contamination  of  the  water  with  hu- 
man refuse,  and  most  probably  with  sewage." 

Living1  Organisms  in  Water. — "Amongst  these 


Fig.    83. 
Living  organisms  in  potable   waters. 

matters  and  feeding  on  them,"  continues  Parkes,  "will 
probably  be  found  living  organisms  of  low  types,  such 
as  bacteria  (micrococci,  bacilli,  and  vibriones),  amoe- 
bae and  infusoria.  These  organisms  are  not  in  them- 
selves dangerous,  but  they  indicate  the  presence  of 
matters,  chiefly  organic,  upon  which  they  feed,  and 
amongst  them  may  be  those  germ-producing  organisms 
which  so  often  find  their  way  into  sewage."     The  ac- 


220  DOMESTIC    SCIENCE. 

companying  sketch  (figure  83)  shows  a  few  of  the 
living  organisms  reported  as  having  been  found  in 
potable  waters ;  a,  represents  a  species  of  green  mold 
(penecillium)  ;  b,  another  form  of  mold  (mucor)  ;  d, 
a  fungus  (aspergillus)  ;  e  and/,  forms  of  bacteria  (mic- 
rococcus, bacillus,  and  vibrio)  ;  c,  a  simple  form  of  ani- 
mal belonging  to  the  protozoans  (vorticella)  ;  g, 
another  protozoan  (paramecium). 


REVIEW. 

1.  Which  are  the  most  injurious  of  the  ordinary  impurities  of 
potable  waters? 

2.  State  what  you  know  of  the  average  amounts  of  mineral 
impurities  ordinarily  allowable  in  water  used  for  drinking, 

3.  What  is  organic  matter? 

4.  In  what  forms  is  the  organic  impurity  of  water  usually  de- 
termined in  chemical  analysis? 

5.  What  do  you  know  of  the  opinions  of  chemists  as  to  the 
limits  of  organic  impurity  ordinarily  allowable  in  potable  waters? 

6.  Give  instances,  principally  local,  of  the  occurrence  of  or- 
ganic impurity  in  water. 

7.  What  do   you  know  of   the  significance  of   chlorine  in 
water? 

8.  Give  instances  of  the  amour t  of  chlorine  occurring  in  dif- 
ferent waters. 

9.  Wherein   lies  the   danger   of    organic  contamination  of 
water? 

10.  Give  known  instances  of  bodily  disorders  resulting  from 
the  use  of  water  so  contaminated. 

11.  What  do  you  know  of  the  possibility  of  disseminating  ty- 
phoid fever  through  the  medium  of  foul  water? 

12.  Enumerate  some  of  the  mechanically  suspended  impurities 
to  be  found  in  exposed  waters. 

13.  What  do  you  know  of  the  occurrence  of  living  organisms 
in  water? 


SIMPLE    TESTS    FOR    WATER.  221 


CHAPTER  21. 

SIMPLE    TESTS    FOR    PURITY    IN    POTABLE    WATER. 

Chemical  Analysis  of  Water. — in  cases  of  sus- 
pected water  contamination,  a  sample  should  be  sub- 
mitted to  a  competent  chemist  for  analysis.  He  will 
certify  to  the  state  of  purity  in  the  sample,  and  as  to 
the  possibility  of  bettering  the  water  by  any  simple 
means.  From  him  the  following  items  of  information 
should  be  asked  : 

1.  The  total  amount  of  solid  matters  present. 

2.  The  nature  of  the  dissolved  solids.  If  possible  a 
full  analysis  of  the  solids  should  be  made,  and  in  all 
cases  the  predominating  metals  should  be  determined, 
and  the  nature  of  the  prevailing  salts,  whether  carbon- 
ates, sulphates,  or  chlorides. 

3.  The  degrees  of  hardness,  expressed  as  total  hard- 
ness, temporary  hardness,  and  permanent  hardness. 

4.  The  amount  of  chlorine  present. 

5.  The  amount  of  nitrogenous  organic  matter  de- 
termined as  free   ammonia  and   albuminoid   ammonia. 

6.  The  presence  or  absence  of  deleterious  gases. 

7.  The  presence  or  absence  of  poisonous  metals. 

8.  The  nature  of  the  mechanically  suspended  mat- 
ters. 

Tests  of   Purity  in   Water. — From  such  facts, 

the   general   condition   of  the  water  can   be  inferred. 


222  DOMESTIC    SCIENCE. 

However,  it  is  not  always  possible  to  secure  the  aid  of 
chemical  skill  in  examining  drinking  water ;  it  is 
proper  therefore  that  we  become  acquainted  with  at 
least  a  few  of  the  determinative  tests  to  which  water 
can  be  subjected.  The  following  observations  may  be 
made  by  any  one  with  practice  and  scrupulous  care, 
and  by  such  assistance  much  reliable  information  as  to 
the  purity  of  any  water  may  be  gained. 

1.  Color.  It  is  a  common  statement  that  pure  water 
is  colorless ;  this,  however,  is  strictly  true  of  small 
bodies  of  water  only ;  for  when  viewed  through  great 
depths,  the  purest  of  water  possesses  a  distinctly 
bluish  tint.  To  determine  the  color  of  a  potable 
water,  fill  with  the  sample  a  tall  cylinder  or  bottle  of 
clear  white  glass ;  cylinders  made  for  the  purpose, 
about  two  feet  in  length  are  best  adapted.  Place  the 
vessel  on  a  white  dish,  or  a  sheet  of  white  paper,  and 
carefully  examine,  looking  from  the  surface  downward. 
Good  waters  will  show  the  bluish  tint  above  referred 
to  ;  any  large  amount  of  vegetable  impurity  will  give 
a  greenish  color ;  and  sewage  filth  will  tint  the  water 
yellow  or  light  brown.  If  salts  of  iron  are  present  in 
the  water,  the  last  named  indication  will  be  unreliable, 
as  such  salts  themselves  would  give  to  the  water  a 
brownish  hue. 

2.  Clearness.  Examine  as  for  color  ;  also  hold  the 
vessel  containing  the  sample  toward  the  light ;  then 
view  it  when  held  before  some  black  object.  Any  tur- 
bidity is  an  indication  of  the  presence  of  organic  im- 
purities in  solution,  or  of  suspended  solid  matters.  All 
turbidity  is  a   sign   of  contamination,  though  the  op- 


SIMPLE    TESTS    FOR    WATER.  223 

posite  must  not  be  inferred — that  dear  water  is  neces- 
sarily pure.  There  is  a  wide -spread  popular  error 
on  this  point,  and  it  has  led  to  the  use  of  very  foul 
waters  because  of  their  sparkling  appearance.  One  of 
the  clearest  waters  ever  examined  bv  the  writer,  was 
taken  from  a  pump  in  Greenwood  Cemetery,  Brooklyn, 
N.  Y.,*  yet  it  was  found  to  be  heavily  laden  with 
nitrates,  which,  doubtless,  were  derived  from  the 
bodies  there  entombed,  f 

3.   The    Odor  of    drinking   water  is   an    important 


*  A  number  of  pumps  are  to  be  found  in  that  wonderful  and 
beautiful  city  of  the  dead,  and  I  have  looked  with  horror  upon 
visitors  drinking  from  these  grave-fed  wells.  Such  water  is 
highly  charged  with  the  nitrates  and  nitrites  of  decomposing 
flesh,  and  water  so  impregnated  has  a  cooling,  saline  taste,  very 
pleasant  to  the  palate  of  the  blissfully  ignorant  drinker,  and  sure 
to  excite  subsequent  thirst,  which  will  lead  to  continued  draughts. 
During  another  visit  to  Greenwood  in  the  summer  of  1889, 1  was 
glad  to  see  that  a  notice  had  been  placed  over  each  of  the  pumps, 
stating  that  the  water  was  to  be  used  for  irrigating  the  flower 
beds  only:  but  the  pumps  are  still  there  with  the  levers  free,  and 
visitors  continue  to  drink  at  them.  Should  we  marvel  that  the 
silent  metropolis  is  so  well  tenanted? 

fThe  London  Lancet  in  referring  to  water  so  contaminated,  says: 
"  It  is  a  well  ascertained  fact,  that  the  surest  carrier  and  the  most 
deadly  fruitful  nidus  of  zymotic  contagion,  is  this  brilliant,  entic- 
ing-looking water,  charged  with  the  nitrates  which  result  from 
decomposition." 

Johnston  says  of  such  waters:  "  The  water  of  a  well  close  to 
the  old  churchyard  on  the  top  of  Highgate  Hill  was  examined  by 
the  late  Mr.  Xoad.  and  found  to  contain  as  much  as  100  grains  of 
solid  matter  io  the  gallon,  57  grains  of  which  consisted  of  the 
nitrates  of  lime  and  magnesia.  This  large  amount  of  nitrates  is 
traced  to  the  neighboring  graveyard,  as  such  compounds  are 
generally  produced  where  animal  matters  decay  in  porous  soils. 
*  *  *  While  the  buried  bodies  were  more  recent,  animal  mat- 
ter.- of  a  more  disagreeable  kind  would  probably  have  been  found 
in  the  well,  as  I  have  myself  found  them  in  the  water  of  wells 
situated  in  the  neighborhood  of  farm-yards." 


224  DOMESTIC    SCIENCE. 

characteristic.  To  determine  it,  procure  a  quart  bottle  ; 
see  that  it  is  clean  and  provided  with  a  well -fitting 
cork.  Half  till  the  bottle  with  the  water  under  ex- 
amination ;  cork  the  vessel  and  set  it  aside  in  a  warm 
place  for  a  few  hours ;  then  shake  it  well,  open  and 
smell.  Any  perceptible  odor  should  condemn  the 
water  for  domestic  use  until  a  determinative  analysis 
has  been  made.  If  no  odor  is  perceptible  after  gentle 
warming,  the  water  should  be  heated  nearly  to  boiling, 
the  odor  being  tested  at  frequent  intervals  as  the  heat- 
ing proceeds.     Remember  that  pure  water  is  odorless. 

4.  Taste.  Water  intended  for  household  use  should 
be  entirely  devoid  of  taste.  Any  perceptible  flavor 
should  be  considered  as  strong  evidence  that  the 
liquid  is  contaminated,  and  chemical  tests  should  be 
employed.  As  many  mineral  ingredients  impart  but  a 
feeble  taste  to  water,  these  tests  must  be  made  with 
critical  care.  Many  waters  that  seem  tasteless  while 
cold  develop  a  positive  taste  if  gently  warmed.  Do 
not  consider  the  flat  insipid  nature  which  all  ordinary 
water  acquires  by  boiling,  as  a  proof  of  contamination. 

5.  The  presence  or  absence  of  Chlorine  should  be 
next  determined.  This  can  be  satisfactorily  done  by  a 
competent  chemist  only,  though  the  method  of  pro- 
ceeding is  simple.  A  drop  of  pure  nitric  acid  and  a 
few  drops  of  clear  silver  nitrate  solution  are  to  be 
added  to  the  water  under  test.  A  milkiness  or  turbidity 
is  due  to  the  formation  of  silver  chloride,  and  is  a  proof 
of  the  presence  of  chlorine,  in  the  sample.  As  was 
stated  on  page  214,  the  presence  of  chlorine  in   mod- 


SIMPLE    TESTS    FOR    WATER.  225 

erate  quantity  is  a  sign  of  danger  only  when  associated 
with  organic  matter. 

6.  The  presence  of  Organic  Matter  in  water  is  diffi- 
cult to  determine,  except  by  complicated  chemical  tests. 
Yet  such  determination  is  of  utmost  importance  in 
deciding  upon  the  wholesomeness  of  water.  Much 
information  upon  this  point,  however,  may  be  gained 
from  the  tests  on  color,  odor,  and  taste  as  before  de- 
scribed. Heisch's  test  for  organic  impurity  in  water 
maybe  made  as  follows:  "Fill  a  clean  pint  bottle 
three-fourths  full  of  water;  dissolve  a  teaspoonful  of 
loaf  or  granulated  sugar ;  cork  the  bottle  and  set  it  in 
a  warm  place  for  two  days.  If  the  water  becomes 
cloudy  or  muddy  it  is  unfit  for  domestic  use.  If  it 
remain  perfectly  clear  it  is  probably  safe  to  use."  Some 
waters  contain  so  much  organic  filth  that  when 
boiled  the  polluting  substances  coagulate,  as  does  the 
white  of  an  egg  when  heated ;  when  the  water  cools 
the  impurities  separate  in  flocks. 


REVIEW. 

1.  What  are   the  chief  chemical  data  on  which  to  base  an 
opinion  as  to  the  wholesomeness  of  any  sample  of  water? 

2.  State  the  significance  of  color  in  water. 

3.  How  would  you  examine  a  sample  of  water  to  ascertain  its 
color? 

4.  What  is  the  significance  of  clearness  of  potable  water? 

5.  Show  that  clear  water  is  not  necessarily  pure. 

6.  Explain  the  significance  of  odor  in  drinking  water. 

7.  Give  details  of  testing  a  sample  of  water  for  odor. 

8.  Show  the  significance  of  taste  in  potable  water. 

9.  How  may  water  be  tested  for  chlorine? 
10.    For  organic  impurities? 


226  DOMESTIC    SCIENCE. 


CHAPTER  22 


PURIFICATION    OF    WATER. 


The  fact  that  water  becomes  so  readily  contam- 
inated with  both  organic  and  inorganic  impurities, 
gives  great  importance  to  the  subject  of  water  purifi- 
cation. Many  methods  of  improving  the  qualities  by 
simple  treatment  have  been  proposed  and  practiced. 

Purification  by  Boiling1.— For  operating  on  a 
small  scale,  as  for  domestic  purposes,  boiling  has  long 
been  in  favor.  This  treatment  may  produce  import- 
ant changes  in  potable  water.  For  example,  consider 
a  specimen  of  water  possessing  great  temporary  hard- 
ness, and  moderately  contaminated  with  organic  re- 
fuse. As  the  boiling  proceeds,  the  dissolved  gases  of 
the  water,  among  them  the  carbon  dioxide,  which  is 
sure  to  be  present  in  such  a  sample,  will  be  expelled  ; 
the  lime  carbonate,  from  which  the  water  derived  its 
quality  of  temporary  hardness  will  separate  from  solu-  ■ 
tion,  and  fall  as  a  sediment,  leaving  the  water  com- 
paratively soft.  This  is  the  easiest  and  the  cheapest 
known  method  of  softening  on  a  small  scale  such  lime- 
carbonate  waters. 

Another  probable  result  of  the  boiling  will  be  the 
coagulation  and  consequent  separation  of  certain 
forms  of  organic  matter.  Farther  than  this,  the  boil- 
ing temperature  will  kill  many  if  not  all  of  the   living 


PURIFICATION    OF    WATER.  227 

germs  present  in  the  water,  thus  insuring  the  liquid 
against  the  power  of  communicating  specific  diseases. 
Much  discussion  has  arisen  among  scientists  as  to  the 
minimum  temperature  that  is  fatal  to  the  common 
forms  of  bacterial  life,  and  from  the  facts  adduced  by 
the  controversy  we  may  conclude  that  the  temperature 
of  212°  F.  will  effectually  destroy  all  living  organisms 
found  in  water,  except  possibly  the  spores  of  certain 
bacteria,  and  these  may  be  surely  killed  by  boiling  the 
water  several  times  at  intervals,  allowing  time  between 
the  boilings  for  the  spores  to  develop.  Parkes  de- 
clares his  belief  that  there  is  scarcely  any  doubt  that 
the  specific  poisons  of  cholera,  enteric  fever,  and  other 
forms  of  contagion  such  as  are  commonly  propagated 
through  the  medium  of  impure  drinking  water,  are 
destroyed  with  certainty  by  even  a  few  minutes'  boil- 
ing. It  must  be  remembered  however,  that  at  great 
altitudes  water  boils  at  a  temperature  considerably 
below  212°  F.  Under  such  conditions  of  diminished 
heat,  the  certainty  of  destroying  microscopic  organ- 
isms by  boiling  the  water  is  considerably  lessened. 

Boiled  water  possesses  an  insipidity  which,  to  many 
people,  is  almost  nauseating;  this  taste  is  due  to  the 
non -aerated  condition  of  the  water,  the  atmospheric 
gases  having  been  expelled  by  the  heat.  Such  water 
may  be  again  aerated  by  allowing  it  to  flow  slowly  from 
a  perforated  cask,  or  through  a  collander,  in  many 
fine  streams. 

Purification  by  Distillation.— Distillation  is  the 
means  by  which  the  purest  water  may  be  obtained. 
The  process  consists  in  boiling  the  water,  and  in    col- 


228 


DOMESTIC    SCIENCE. 


lecting  and  condensing  the  steam.  In  this  way  the 
solid  ingredients  are  left  in  the  boiler.  The  greater 
part  of  the  dissolved  gases  will  be  carried  off  in  the 
first  part  of  the  distillate;  if  this  portion  be  rejected, 
the  water  that  subsequently  distills  may  be  regarded 
as  approximately  pure. 

The  apparatus  for  distillation  (figure  84)  consists  of 


Fig.  84. 
Apparatus  for  distillation  of  water. 

a  boiler  A,  with  a  delivery  pipe  B  and  C  through  which 
the  steam  is  conducted  to  a  spiral  tube  or  worm  set  in  a 
vessel  of  cold  water  S  ;  within  the  spiral  tube,  the  steam 
condenses  to  the  liquid  state,  and  this  water  is  caught, 
in  a  suitable  vessel.  A  stream  of  cold  water  is  sup- 
plied to  the  condenser  through  an  inlet  tube,  the  surplus 
being  carried  off  through  an  exit  pipe. 


PURIFICATION    OF    WATER. 


229 


Fig.  85. 


For  the  distillation  of  water  or  other  liquids  on  a 
small  scale,  the  apparatus  represented  in  figure  85  may 
be  employed.  In  addition  to  its  portability  this  has 
the  advantage  of  being  constructed  in  all  its  essential 
parts  of  glass.  In  the  sketch  A  is  a  glass  flask,  con- 
taining water,  and  heated  by  a  spirit  lamp  placed  below  ; 
B  is  a  delivery  tube   connected   with  the  condenser  C. 

This  form  of  condenser 
is  called  from  its  inven- 
tor the  Liebig condenser ; 
it  consists  of  a  central 
tube  continuous  with  B*, 
and    surrounded     by    a 

portable  distillation  apparatus  of  large  outer  tube,  through 
glass.  which     cold     water    is 

flowing.  The  central  tube  is  thus  incased  in  a  water 
jacket,  a  continuous  supply  being  made  through  D, 
an  escape  is  provided  through  E.  The  distillate  is 
caught  in  F. 

Great  care  should  be  exercised  that  the  distilling 
apparatus  be  clean,  and  of  such  material  that  the  water 
will  not  dissolve  appreciable  amounts  of  its  substance. 
Houses  that  are  furnished  with  steam  heating  appliances 
may  be  easily  supplied  with  a  sufficiency  of  distilled 
water.  Water  that  has  been  distilled  with  all  proper 
precautions  may  be  considered  free  from  all  disease 
germs,  and  therefore  comparatively  safe  for  domestic 
use.  Before  such  water  can  be  relished  for  drinking 
purposes  it  must  be  aerated,  and  this  may  be  accom- 
plished by  the  same  means  as  are  employed  to  aerate 
boiled  water. 


230  DOMESTIC    SCIENCE. 

Filtration  is  often  resorted  to  as  a  purifying  pro- 
cess. Many  forms  of  domestic  filters  are  now  in  the 
market.  The  manufacturers  of  these  devices  usually 
guarantee  them  to  free  the  water  from  all  suspended 
and  dissolved'  matters ;  but  such  extravagant  claims 
are  seldom  realized  in  practice.  The  commonest  form 
of  water  filter  consists  of  a  vessel  of  wood,  stone,  or 
metal,  containing  a  slab  of  porous  earthenware,  and 
layers  of  charcoal,  magnetic  iron  oxide,  and  gravel; 
in  some  filters  pounded  glass  and  sponge  are  used. 
Through  this  the  water  is  allowed  to  percolate,  thus 
imitating  in  a  feeble  way  the  grand  processes  of  nat- 
ural filtration  in  which  foul  waters  become  sweet  by 
percolating  through  the  porous  strata  of  the  earth. 
A  filter  which  in  service  will  prove  fully  as  efficient  as 
many  of  the  high-priced  articles  offered  in  the  market, 
may  be  made  as  follows  :  Provide  some  water-tight  box, 
cask  or  jar  of  convenient  size  ;  bore  a  number  of  holes 
in  the  bottom  of  the  receptacle,  and  place  within  it 
alternate  layers  of  recently  heated  charcoal,  fine  gravel, 
and  sand,  till  it  is  half  or  two -thirds  full.  Pour  in  at 
the  top  the  water  to  be  filtered  ;  that  which  first  passes 
through  may  be  somewhat  turbid,  from  loose  particles 
derived  from  the  filter;  return  such  to  the  top.  In  a 
short  time  the  filtered  water  will  appear  perfectly 
clear,  though  it  may  have  been  originally  of  the  foulest 
kind.  Such  a  filter  is  of  service  as  long  as  it  is  clean. 
The  great  objection  to  the  use  of  domestic  filters  is 
based  upon  the  exceedingly  small  amount  of  filtering 
material,  and  the  consequent  rapidity  with  which  the 
filters  become  choked.       A  dirtv   filter — one  that  has 


PURIFICATION    OF    WATER.  231 

taken  from  the  water  all  the  foul  matter  that  it  is 
capable  of  removing — is  a  source  of  pollution  to  the 
water  that  subsequently  passes  through. 

The  process  of  nitration  is  a  serviceable  one,  and 
could  it  be  successfully  performed  with  an  apparatus 
of  adequate  size,  it  would  be  regarded  as  a  very 
efficient  aid  in  the  purification  of  water.  The  writer 
has  examined  many  forms  of  household  filters,  and  has 
analyzed  samples  of  water  both  before  and  after  filtra- 
tion through  such  ;  and  he  is  convinced  that  most  of 
the  filtering  devices  require  for  cleanliness  far  more  care 
and  attention  than  the  ordinary  house-keeper  is  in- 
clined to  bestow  upon  them.  And  .  if  not  cared  for, 
they  become  sources  of  positive  danger. 

A  domestic  filter  of  recent  invention  and  one  of  the 
best  yet  offered ,  is  the  Pasteur-  Ohamberland  device.  In 
this  the  water  is  forced  through  several  partitions  of 
porous  earthenware,  by  which  treatment  it  is  entirely 
freed  from  bacterial  organisms.  Water  filtered  in  this 
apparatus  is  completely  sterilized,  though  its  dissolved 
solids  are  not  diminished.  Difficulty  is  experienced  in 
cleaning  this  filter. 

A  filter,  even  when  working  in  the  best  manner 
possible,  cannot  separate  from  water  its  dissolved 
matters  ;  charcoal,  it  is  true,  will  take  out  some  portion 
of  the  ammonia  and  other  gases,  but  the  removal  of 
these  is  in  no  case  complete,  and  the  amount  of  dis- 
solved solids  is  in  no  way  diminished  by  filtration. 

Filtration  on  a  Large  Scale.— For  the  removal 

of  mechanically  suspended  matters,  such  as  clay,  mud, 
and  sand,  the  filtration  process  proves  of  great  service; 


232  DOMESTIC    SCIENCE. 

and  in  the  purification  of  water  on  a  large  scale,  as  for 
a  city  supply,  filtration  is  an  indispensable  part  of  the 
treatment.  The  water  of  London  is  filtered  by  being 
passed  through  beds  of  sand  and  gravel.  The  average 
thickness  of  the  sand  layers  is  three  feet ;  beneath  this 
are  strata  of  gravel,  the  coarseness  increasing  with  the 
depth.  The  water  upon  the  filter  beds  is  never  allowed 
to  exceed  two  feet  in  depth.  In  practice  it  is  found 
necessary  to  frequently  renew  the  upper  layers ;  the 
rapidity  with  which  the  filters  become  choked  is  sur- 
prising. 

Chemicals  as  Purifying1  Agents. — it  is  claimed 

that  certain  chemical  substances  when  added  to  water 
exert  a  purifying  effect  upon  it.  Of  these  Alum  is 
perhaps  in  commonest  use.  When  mixed  with  certain 
waters,  alum  forms  a  bulky,  gelatinous  precipitate  of 
aluminium  hydrate,  which  in  settling  carries  with  it 
much  of  the  matter  held  in  mechanical  suspension. 
Good  authorities  recommend  about  six  grains  of  alum 
to  the  gallon  of  water  as  the  best  proportion.  The 
waters  of  the  Seine  are  used  in  Paris  after  clarification 
by   this  simple  process.* 

*  "For  household  use,  on  a  small  scale,  water  can  be  easily  clar- 
ified and  purified  by  placing  a  layer  of  clean  cotton  two  or  three 
inches  deep  at  the  bottom  of  a  glass  percolator,  such  as  is  used 
by  druggists,  and  pouring  the  water  to  be  filtered,  to  which  the 
solution  of  alum  has  been  added,  into  the  percolator,  and  allowing 
it  to  drip  through  into  a  clean  vessel  placed  to  receive  it.  The  alum 
solution  is  conveniently  made  by  dissolving  half  an  ounce  of  alum 
in  a  quart  of  water,  and  of  this  solution  a  scant  teaspoonful  should 
be  added  to  each  gallon  of  water  to  be  filtered.  Alum  is  now  used 
in  a  number  of  filtering  and  purifying  systems  which  have  of  late 
years  been  brought  prominently  before  the  public  by  their  invent- 
ors or  the  companies  controlling  them."— Dr.  W.  G.  Tucker,  in  Science, 
July  15th,  1892. 


PURIFICATION    OF    WATER.  233 

Tannin  exerts  a  coagulating  effect  upon  certain 
forms  of  organic  matter.  The  common  way  of  add- 
ing the  tannin  is  to  place  oak  chips  in  the  water,  this 
kind  of  wood  being  very  rich  in  the  astringent  named. 
This  treatment  is  of  use  only  if  the  polluting  ingredi- 
ents be  of  an  albuminoid  character;  but  in  waters  so 
contaminated  the  method  is  a  very  serviceable  one,  as 
the  coagulum  in  forming  entangles  most  of  the  other 
impurities. 

Prof.  Johnston  states  that  the  marshy  waters  of 
India  are  rendered  potable  by  the  use  of  a  nut — strych- 
nos  potatorum.  The  powder  produced  by  crushing 
the  nut  is  rubbed  on  the  inside  of  the  wrater  vessel,  and 
the  impurities  of  the  liquid  soon  subside.  The  same 
authority  reports  that  in  Egypt  the  muddy  water  of 
the  Nile  is  clarified  by  the  addition  of  bitter  almonds.* 

Softening"  Hard  Waters.— For  softening  waters 
possessing  a  high  degree  of  temporary  hardness,  the 
value  of  the  boiling  process  has  been  already  pointed 
out.  This  mode  of  treatment,  however,  is  inapplica- 
ble on  a  large  scale  ;  and  a  much  cheaper  method  has 
been   devised.     This  is  known    as    Clark's  pro  cess  ;    it 


*It  is  well  to  read  here  the  experience  of  the  Israelites— Exodus 
xv,  23-25: 

"And  when  they  came  to  Marah,  they  oould  not  drink  of  the 
waters  of  Marah,  for  they  were  bitter:  therefore  the  name  of  it 
was  called  Marah. 

"And  the  people  murmured  against  Moses,  saying,  WThat  shall 
we  drink? 

"And  he  cried  unto  the  Lord:  and  the  Lord  showed  him  a  tree, 
which  when  he  had  cast  into  the  waters,  the  waters  were  made 
sweet;  there  he  made  for  them  a  statute  and  an  ordinance,  and 
there  he  proved  them." 


lJ34  DOMESTIC    SCIENCE. 

consists  in  adding  lime  water  to  the  water  that  is  to  be 
softened.  It  may  appear  to  be  a  strange  proceeding, 
to  add  lime  for  the  purpose  of  removing  a  compound 
of  lime,  yet  the  explanation  of  the  operation  is  simple. 
As  already  explained,  it  is  mostly  lime  carbonate  that 
gives  to  water  the  property  of  temporary  hardness  ; 
and  this  substance  is  scarcely  soluble  at  all  in  pure 
water ;  but  it  dissolves  with  ease  in  water  containing 
carbon  dioxide.  Now  the  lime  that  is  added  to  such  a 
carbonated  water  will  unite  with  the  free  carbon  diox- 
ide there  present,  forming  with  it  insoluble  lime  car- 
bonate ;  at  the  same  time  the  carbonate  originally  in 
solution  will  fall  as  a  sediment  because  the  removal  of 
the  free  carbon  dioxide  robs  it  of  its  solvent.  In  this 
way  it  is  possible  to  reduce  the  hardness  of  water  70 
or  80  per  cent.  The  addition  of  the  lime  water  causes 
a  turbidity  throughout  the  liquid,  and  time  must  be 
allowed  for  the  sediment  to  subside  before  the  water 
can  be  used.  In  Porter's  modification  of  Clark's  pro- 
cess, the  water  is  filtered  under  pressure,  the  solid 
particles  being  thus  more  speedily  removed. 


REVIEW. 

1.  Name  the    principal  methods    of    artificially    purifying 
water, 

2.  Show  the  effects  of  boiling  in  improving  the  quality  of 
water. 

3.  Explain  the  insipidity  of  boiled  water. 

4.  What  is  distillation  ? 

5.  Describe  the  process  of  distilling  water  on  a  large  scale. 


PURIFICATION    OF    WATER.  235 

6.  Describe  tbe  Liebig  condenser  and  its  attachments  for  dis- 
tillations on  a  small  scale. 

7.  What  do  you  know  of  filtration  of  water  as  a  purification 
process  ? 

8.  Describe  an  ordinary  domestic  filter. 

9.  Describe  the  Pasteur-Chamberland  filter. 

10.  Show  the  imperative  need  of  keeping  a  domestic  filter 
clean. 

11.  Explain  Clark's  process  of  softening  waters. 

12.  Explain  Porter's  modification  of  this  process. 

13.  Name  the  principal  chemical  substances  known  to  exert  a 
purifying  effect  on  water, 

14.  Explain  the  effect  of  alum.     Of  tannin. 


23  G  DOMESTIC    SCIENCE. 


CHAPTER     23. 

MINERAL    WATERS. 

Classification  of  Mineral  Waters. — The  term 

mineral  water  is  applied  to  any  natural  water  that  con- 
tains so  large  a  proportion  of  mineral  ingredients  as  to 
derive  therefrom  a  characteristic  taste.  Xo  clear  dis- 
tinction, other  than  this,  exists  between  potable  and 
mineral  waters.  According  to  their  prevailing  ingre- 
dients, mineral  waters  are  usually  classified  as  sulphur 
waters,  carbonated  waters,  chalybeate  waters,  alum 
waters,  siliceous  waters,  and  saline  waters.  We  will 
briefly  consider  each  of  these  kinds. 

Sulphur  Waters  contain  a  considerable  quantity 
of  hydrogen  sulphide,  and  this  gas  possesses  such  an 
unmistakable  odor  that  no  chemical  skill  is  needed  to 
determine  its  presence.  The  solid  contents  of  such 
waters  consist  mostly  of  alkaline  sulphides  and  sul- 
phates. Utah  furnishes  many  remarkable  examples  of 
sulphur  springs.  The  waters  of  the  Warm  Springs 
and  of  the  Hot  Springs  at  Salt  Lake  City  are  rare  and 
wonderful  mixtures. 

Carbonated  Waters  are  such  as  contain  an  abun- 
dance of  carbon  dioxide  gas,  by  virtue  of  which  they 
dissolve  large .  amounts  of  calcium  carbonate  and  of 
other  carbonates.  Carbonated  waters  are  of  two  kinds  : 
those  containing  much  lime  in  combination  are  known 
as  calcium  waters  ;    and  waters   containing  iron  com- 


MINERAL    WATER.  237 

pounds  as  predominating  ingredients  are  known  as  cha- 
lybeate waters. 

Calcium  Waters.— It  has  been  already  shown  that 
the  solvent  power  of  water  for  gases  is  increased  by 
pressure,  and  we  may  conclude  from  this,  that,  within 
the  crust  of  the  earth,  waters  coming  in  contact  with 
carbon  dioxide  would  take  into  solution  large  propor- 
tions of  the  gas.  This  addition  gives  the  water  power 
to  dissolve  many  mineral  carbonates,  of  which  lime- 
stone or  calcium  carbonate  may  be  taken  as  a  type. 
As  such  highly  charged  water  reaches  the  surface  as 
springs,  the  undue  pressure  being  relieved,  most  of  the 
carbon  dioxide  escapes,  in  consequence  of  which  the 
lime  carbonate  falls  from  solution  in  the  solid  state. 
This  may  be  deposited  in  such  quantities  as  to  form  a 
curb  of  stone  around  the  spring,  and  to  incrust  articles 
immersed  in  the  water.  Very  remarkable  carbonated 
springs  exist  at  Soda  Springs,  Idaho,  and  at  Midway, 
Utah.  At  the  former  place  the  waters  are  so  highly 
charged  with  carbon  dioxide  that  the  escaping  gas 
keeps  the  springs  in  constant  and  violent  agitation. 
Any  article  placed  in  the  water  soon  becomes  coated 
with  a  deposit  of  lime  carbonate.  Such  process  is 
sometimes  incorrectly  spoken  of  as  petrifaction  ;  it  is 
simply  an  incrusting  or  covering,  not  a  replacing  by 
stone.  A  bunch  of  grapes  or  a  bouquet  of  flowers 
may  be  completely  covered  in  this  way,  and  long  after 
the  soft  fruit  and  the  delicate  petals  have  decayed  ,  the 
stony  casing  remains,  preserving  the  full  form  of  the 
original. 

Chalybeate   Waters  contain  iron  in   the  form  of 


238  DOMESTIC    SCIENCE. 

ferrous  carbonate.  This  substance  is  soluble  in  water 
containing  free  carbon  dioxide,  but  not  in  pure  water ; 
in  this  respect  it  resembles  the  lime  carbonate  already 
referred  to.  When  the  carbon  dioxide  escapes  from 
such  water,  the  iron  carbonate  is  deposited  from  solu- 
tion ;  under  the  influence  of  atmospheric  oxygen, 
however,  this  soon  changes  to  ferric  oxide,  and  appears 
about  the  springs,  and  upon  objects  placed  in  the 
water,  as  a  red  or  yellow  incrustation.  Typical  illus- 
trations of  this  class  of  waters  are  found  in  Sevier 
Co.,  and  in  Millard  Co.,  Utah.  At  the  former  place 
the  deposits  of  ferric  oxide  are  so  pure  and  plentiful  as 
to  be  used  with  very  little  preparation  for  making  paints. 

Alum  Waters  are  rich  in  iron  and  aluminum  sul- 
phates, and  frequently  contain  small  quantities  of  free 
sulphuric  acid.  The  strong  styptic  taste  of  alum  is 
characteristic  of  such  waters.  Alum  springs  are  not 
of  common  occurrence  in  the  west. 

Siliceous  Waters  contain  silica  in  solution,  and 
are  usually  alkaline  and  always  hot  as  they  naturally 
occur  in  springs.  Hot  alkaline  water  appears  to  be 
the  natural  solvent  of  silica.  Of  this  kind  of  thermal 
springs  are  geysers,  the  most  noted  of  which  occur  in 
the  Yellowstone  Park  of  our  own  country ;  others 
exist  in  Iceland  and  in  New  Zealand.  As  the  water 
escapes  from  confinement,  and  as  it  cools,  much  of  the 
silica  is  deposited  from  solution,  thus  forming  the 
geyser  craters.* 

*In  some  places  the  silica  is  deposited  in  a  gelatinous  condition 
to  a  depth  of  three  or  four  inches.  Trunks  and  branches  of  trees 
immersed  in  these  waters  are  quickly  petrified.  Le  Conte. 


MINERAL    WATER.  239 

Saline  WatePS  contain  many  earthy  salts,  among 
which  the  chlorides  of  sodium  and  calcium  predom- 
inate. The  celebrated  Kissengen  Springs  in  Germany 
belong  to  this  class,  as  do  also  the  famous  Saratoga 
Springs  in  the  United  States.  To  this  division  of 
mineral  waters  belong  also  the  waters  of  the  ocean, 
and  of  salt  and  alkaline  lakes.  The  composition  of 
saline  waters  is  very  complicated  ;  indeed  sea  water 
contains  all  soluble  compounds  that  are  found  in  the 
earth,  and  that  are  capable  of  existing  together  in  the 
same  solution.  The  prevailing  ingredient  is  sodium 
chloride. 

A  very  concentrated  saline  water  is  that  of  the  Great 
Salt  Lake,  which  contains  on  an  average  about  19  per 
cent,  by  weight  of  solid  ingredients,  or  say  13,000 
grains  per  gallon  of  water.  The  author  collected  and 
analyzed  a  sample  of  Salt  Lake  water  in  December, 
1885,  and  found  in  it  the  following  ingredients: 


Grams 

Per  cent. 

per  litre. 

by  weight 

Sodium  chloride 

152.4983 

13.5856 

Sodium  sulphate 

15.9540 

1.4213 

Magnesium  chloride 

12.6776 

1.1295 

Calcium  sulphate 

1.6679 

0.1477 

Potassium  sulphate 

4.8503 

0.4321 

Total  solid  matter  187.6481  16.7162 

The  proportion  of  solid  matters  in  an  inclosed 
body  of  water  like  the  Great  Salt  Lake  is  variable 
according  to  the  prevailing  climatic  conditions.  Thus, 
during  the  dry  and  warm  season,  evaporation  pro- 
ceeds much  more  rapidly  than  water  is  supplied  by  the 
inflowing    streams,    consequently    at   such   times  lake 


24  0  DOMESTIC    SCIENCE. 

water  becomes  more  concentrated.  During  the  wet 
months,  however,  the  supply  far  exceeds  the  loss  by 
evaporation,  and  the  water  becomes  correspondingly 
diluted.  As  a  basis  for  comparison  with  the  above 
figures,  there  are  given  below  the  results  of  an  analysis 
of  lake  water  collected  in  August,  1889  :    . 


Grams 

Per  cent. 

per  litre. 

by   weight 

Sodium  chloride 

182.131 

15.7430 

Sodium  sulphate 

12.150 

1.0502 

Magnesium  chloride 

23.270 

2.0114 

Calcium  sulphate 

3.225 

.2788 

Potassium  sulphate 

5.487 

.4742 

Total  solids 

226.263 

19.5576 

In  1892  the  lake  water  was  even  more  concentrated. 
The  average  of  four  analyses  of  samples  taken  from 
the  lake  in  September  of  that  year  showed  the  water 
as  holding  in  solution  250.75  grams  per  litre,  or  over 
22  per  cent,  by  weight. 

The  water  of  the  Dead  Sea,  in  Palestine,  is  still 
more  concentrated.  An  analysis  of  a  sample  of  Dead 
Sea  water  collected  at  a  depth  of  1,110  feet,  by  Capt. 
Lynch,  showed  the  following  composition  : 


Per 

cent,  by  weight 

Sodium  chloride 

7.555 

Potassium  chloride 

0.658 

Magnesium  chloride 

- 

14.889 

Calcium  sulphate 

0.070 

Calcium  chloride 

- 

3.107 

Potassium  bromide 

0.137 

Total  solids 

26.416 

Temperature  Of  Springs. — The  average  temper- 
ature of  spring  water  is  from  60°  to  65°  F.,  but  min- 


MINERAL    WATER.  241 

eral  springs  often  far  exceed  this.  Indeed  some  min- 
eral waters  are  discharged  from  the  spring  at  a  boiling 
temperature.  The  Hot  Springs,  near  Salt  Lake  City, 
have  a  temperature  of  128°  F.  The  Monroe  Springs, 
in  Sevier  Co.,  Utah,  discharge  water  at  137.5°  F.,  and 
certain  hot  springs,  near  Draper,  Salt  Lake  Co.,  Utah, 
emit  water  at  a  temperature  of  158°  F.  The  constancy 
of  temperature  in  most  of  these  springs  is  remarkable. 
Wells  says  :  "There  is  evidence  to  show  that  the  tem- 
perature of  some  hot  springs  has  not  diminished  for 
upward  of  a  thousand  years.'' 

Medicinal  Effects  of  Mineral  Waters.— Before 

leaving  the  subject  of  mineral  waters,  reference  should 
be  made  to  the  common  belief  that  all  such  waters  are 
of  necessity  valuable  remedial  agents  in  disease.  In- 
deed, there  seems  to  be  a  popular  belief  that  any 
natural  water  possessing  a  particularly  disagreeable 
taste  or  odor  is  surely  good  for  the  body.  It  is  an 
undeniable  fact  that  many  mineral  waters  possess 
great  therapeutic  properties ;  especially  are  they  valua- 
ble for  washing  and  bathing  in  cases  of  skin  disease, 
gout,  and  rheumatism,  and  in  rare  cases  it  may  be  wise 
to  administer  the  waters  internally  ;  but  there  is  a 
reckless  carelessness  now  existing  as  to  the  use  of 
such  waters.  They  should  be  used  in  moderation  and 
under  skilled  direction.  Mineral  water  is  to  be  re- 
garded as  a  medicine,  not  as  a  panacea  ;  and  if  admin- 
istered unwisely  the  water  may  prove  positively  harm- 
ful. 


242  DOMESTIC    SCIENCE. 

REVIEW. 

1.  What  is  mineral  water  ? 

2.  Give  a  general  classification  of  mineral  waters. 

3.  Give  general  characteristics  of  sulphur  waters,  with  local 
illustrations. 

4.  Give  characteristics  of  carbonated  waters,  with  illustra- 
tions. 

5.  What  sub- classes  of  carbonated  waters  are  you  acquainted 
with? 

6.  What  do  you  know  of  carbonated  waters  containing  lime  ? 

7.  Of  chalybeate  waters  ? 

8.  State  what  you  know  of  alum  waters. 

9.  Of  saline  waters,  with  some  notable  examples. 

10.  What  do  you  know  of  the  average  solid  contents  of  the 
water  of  Great  Salt  Lake  ? 

11.  Name  the  principal  mineral  ingredients  of  the  Salt  Lake. 

12.  Illustrate  and  explain  the  fluctuation  in  the  proportions  of 
dissolved  solids  to  which  the  Salt  Lake  is  subject. 

13.  What  do  you  know  of  the  Dead  Sea  water  ? 

14.  State  what  you  know  of  the  temperature  of  spring  waters. 

15.  What  is  your  opinion  of  the  medicinal  value  of  mineral 
waters  ? 


COMPOSITION    OF    PURE    WATER.  243 


CHAPTER    24. 

COMPOSITION    OF    PURE    WATER. 

Chemical  Elements  and  Compounds.— Know- 
ing now  that  natural  waters  are  never  pure,  and  having 
considered  the  process  of  distillation,  by  which  chem- 
ically pure  water  may  be  prepared,  it  would  be  well  to 
enquire  concerning  the  nature  and  composition  of  this 
purest  kind  of  water.  From  the  earliest  times  of 
which  we  have  general  record  till  near  the  end  of  the 
eighteenth  century,  water  was  thought  to  be  an  ele- 
ment;  now  it  is  known  to  be  a  compound.  Elements 
are  simple  substances,  such  as  man  has  never  yet  de- 
composed into  other  constituents;  a  compound,  how- 
ever, is  composed  of  at  least  two  elementary  sub- 
stances. As  illustrations:  gold,  silver,  iron,  nitrogen, 
carbon,  oxygen,  sulphur,  are  elements ;  for  not  one  of 
them  has  ever  been  decomposed  by  man.  Thus  far  no 
chemist  has  been  able  to  produce  from  pure  gold  any- 
thing but  gold  ;  and  so  with  each  of  the  elements,  of 
which  now  between  60  and  70  are  known.  On  the 
other  hand,  common  salt  is  an  example  of  a  compound  ; 
it  may  be  separated  by  chemical  means  into  the  two 
elements  sodium  and  chlorine ;  carbon  dioxide  is  also 
a  compound,  it  consists  of  carbon  and  oxygen.  So, 
too,  water  is  a  compound,  for  it  may  be  decomposed 
into  the  two  ingredients,  hydrogen  and  oxygen. 

Electrolysis  Of   Water.— The   decomposition    of 


244 


DOMESTIC    SCIENCE. 


water  may  be  very  beautifully  and  instructively  illus- 
trated by  passing  a  voltaic  current  through  a  quantity 
of  water,  and  collecting  the  gases  that  result.  If  an  ap- 
paratus similar  to  that  shown  in  figure  86  be  employed, 
the  collecting  tubes  being  filled  with  water  and  in- 
verted over  the  terminations  of  the   conducting  wires 


Fig.  86. 
Electrolysis  of  water. 

from  the  battery  on  the  right,  bubbles  will  be  seen 
rising  in  the  tubes  as  soon  as  the  current  is  started. 
One  tube  is  seen  to  fill  as  fast  again  as  does  the  other. 
The  double  quantity  of  gas  will  be  proved  by  investi- 
gation to  be  hydrogen,  and  the  gas  in  the  other  tube 
to  be  oxygen. 

Decomposition  of  Water  by   Hot   Iron.— if 

steam  be  passed  through  an  iron  tube  containing  scraps 
of  iron  heated  to  bright  redness,  the  vapor  will  be 
decomposed,  its  oxygen    combining  with   the  metal  in 


COMPOSITION    OF    PUKE    WATER.  24  5 

the  tube  to  produce  an  oxide  of  iron,  and  the  hydro- 
gen escaping  at  the  open  end  of  the  tube,  where  it  may 
be  collected.  By  this  method  also  we  prove  that  water 
consists  of  the  elements  hydrogen  and  oxygen. 

Oxygen. — The  general  mode  of  preparation  and 
the  principal  properties  of  oxygen  have  been  briefly 
considered  in  a  preceding  chapter  (see  pages  4  2  and 
43).  It  will  be  well  at  this  stage  to  review  the  subject 
and  re-read  the  pages  referred  to. 

Hydrogen;  its  Preparation. — Hydrogen,  how- 
ever, is  to  us  a  new  element.  To  investigate  its  pro- 
perties we  should  prepare  it  in  larger  quantity  than  will 
be  yielded  by  a  weak  battery  current  in  water.  The 
simplest  and  for  our  present  purpose  the  best  mode  of 
preparing  the  gas  is  as  follows  :  Arrange  a  generating 
bottle,  with  funnel,  delivery  tube,  pneumatic  trough, 
and  collecting  bottle.  The  apparatus  shown  in  figure 
3,  page  13,  will  answer  our  purpose  well.  Place 
within  the  bottle  some  scraps  of  zinc ;  then  adjust  the 
cork  and  pour  into  the  bottle  through  the  funnel  tube 
enough  dilute  sulphuric  acid*  or  muriatic  acid  to  cover 
the  bits  of  zinc  to  the  depth  of  an  inch.  Gas  will 
soon  collect  in  the  inverted  bottle ;  discard  the  first 
bottleful ;  it  is  mixed  with  air ;  then  collect  several 
bottles  of  the  gas. 


*Care  must  be  exercised  in  diluting  sulphuric  acid,  as  great 
heat  is  developed  in  the  process.  The  acid  and  the  water  should 
be  measured  separately — one  volume  of  the  former  to  three  of  the 
latter;  the  acid  should  then  be  poured  in  a  small  stream  into  the 
water,  which  in  the  meanwhile  should  be  vigorously  stirred.  The 
mixing  must  be  done  in  a  vessel  of  glass  or  earthenware,  as  the 
acid  will  attack  wood  and  metal.  Remember  that  suphuric  acid 
intensely  corrosive  and  poisonous. 


246 


DOMESTIC    SCIENCE. 


Properties    of    Hydrogen.— By  collecting  and 

examining'  the  hydrogen  we  shall  find  it  to  be  a  color- 
less gas,  and  if  pure  it  will  be  devoid  of  odor,  though 
the  impurities  of  the  materials  used  in  its  manufac- 
ture usually  impart  to  the  gas  a  disagreeable  smell. 
It  is  also  very  light,  exerting  a  buoyant  effect  on  the 
vessels  within  which  it  is  confined ;  in  fact,  hydrogen 
is  the  lightest  known   substance.      Its   buoyancy  may 

be  prettily  tested  by  filling 
•with  the  dried  gas  a  child' s 
toy  balloon;  when  re- 
leased this  will  rise  swiftly 
through  the  atmosphere. 
Hydrogen  is  also  in- 
flammable ;  it  may  be 
burned  at  the  mouth  of 
the  bottle,  as  shown  in 
figure  87.  Another  demon- 
stration of  the  combusti- 
ble nature  of  hydrogen 
may  be  made  by  passing 
the  gas  through  a  tube 
drawn  at  one  end  to  a  jet. 
The  gas  as  it  issues  may 
be  burned  in  a  continuous 
flame. 

Synthesis  and  Analysis  of  Water.— While  the 

hydrogen  jet  is  burning,  invert  over  it  a  cold  dry  bot- 
tle containing  air  or  oxygen.  A  mist  appears  on  the 
inside  and  drops  of  liquid  may  collect  there.  The 
combustion   of    hydrogen   then   marks   a   combination 


Fig.  87. 
Hydrogen  burning. 


COMPOSITION    OF    PURE    WATER.  24  7 

between  this  gas  and  the  oxygen  of  the  atmosphere, 
the  result  of  the  union  is  water.  We  have  thus  proved 
the  composition  of  water  by  synthesis  as  well  as  by 
analysis.  By  analysis,  or  decomposition,  we  have  sep- 
arated the  water  into  its  elements,  hydrogen  and  oxy- 
gen ;  this  we  accomplished  by  the  aid  of  the  voltaic 
current,  and  through  the  agency  of  heated  iron.  By 
synthesis,  or  union,  we  have  combined  the  elements  and 
produced  the  compound,  water. 

It  is  remarkable  that  hydrogen,  which  burns  with 
a  very  intense  heat,  and  oxygen  which  is  so  vigorous 
a  supporter  of  combustion,  by  their  union  should  form 
a  compound  possessing  the  property  of  extinguishing 
fire.  When  oxygen  and  hydrogen  are  brought  together 
in  quantity,  and  a  flame  or  an  electric  spark  is  applied 
to  the  mixture,  a  very  violent  explosion  occurs,  and 
water  is  produced  by  the  union  of  the  gases. 

The  Oxy-hydrogen  Flame. — If  a  stream  of  oxy- 
gen be  forcibly  driven  into  the  midst  of  a  flame  of 
burning  hydrogen,  the  oxy-hydrogen  flame  is  produced  ; 
this  is  attended  by  the  most  intense  heat  known  to  be 
produced  by  chemical  processes.  In  such  a  flame, 
steel  wire  will  burn  like  wood  in  an  ordinary  fire  ;  zinc, 
copper,  and  all  known  metals  may  be  deflagrated, 
many  of  them  with  characteristic  flame  tints ;  even 
platinum,  the  most  infusible  of  metals,  may  be  readily 
melted  by  this  means.  Yet  the  flame  is  practically 
non-luminous;  its  great  heat  may  be  utilized,  how- 
ever, in  raising  some  incombustible  solid  to  a  state  of 
incandescence.  A  piece  of  lime  or  of  magnesia  intro- 
duced into  the  flame  is  at  once  brought  to  a  state  of 


>y  volume. 

By  weight. 

1  part 

8  parts 

2  parts 

1  part 

248  DOMESTIC    SCIENCE. 

dazzling  brilliancy.  This  is  known  as  the  calcium  or 
Drummond  light,  and  is  of  great  service  in  the  opera- 
tion of  optical  lanterns,  and  in  other  cases  wherein  a 
particularly  brilliant  illumination  is  desired. 

Constancy  Of  Composition. — As  a  result  of  accu- 
rate experiments  we  know  that  pure  water  consists  of  : 

Oxygen 
Hydrogen 

These  proportions  are  invariable,  as  indeed  are  the 
proportions  of  the  constituent  parts  iu  any  compound. 
In  accordance  with  some  great  principle,  which  the 
mind  of  man  has  not  fully  comprehended,  the  elements 
of  matter  unite  in  fixed  and  unchangeable  proportions. 
The  discovery  and  proof  of  this  fact  is  one  of  the  greatest 
achievements  of  modern  science.  Not  only  is  there 
order  and  system  in  the  world  of  living  things  ;  but  even 
the  dead  minerals  of  earth,  and  the  water  of  ocean  and 
air,  each  is  compounded  according  to  unchanging 
law. 


REVIEW. 

1.  Explain  the  difference  between  a  chemical  element  and 
a  compound. 

2.  Show  the  difference  between  a  compound  and  a  mixture. 

3.  Describe  a  demonstration   of    the  compound    nature  of 
water. 

4.  How  may  steam  be  decomposed  ? 

5.  Review  the  preparation  and  properties  of   oxygen   (see 
chapter  3). 

6.  How  would  you  prepare  hydrogen  for  experimental  pur- 
poses ? 


COMPOSITION    OF    PUKE    WATER.  249 

7.  State  the  chief  physical  properties  of  hydrogen. 

8.  Describe  demonstrations  of    some  chemical   property  of 
hydrogen. 

9.  Explain  the  chemical  results  of  the  combustion  of  hydro- 
gen in  air. 

10.  Define  and  illustrate  "  analysis"  ;  "  synthesis." 

11.  Explain  the  Drummond  or  calcium  light. 

12.  Describe  the  result  of  applying  a  flame  to  a  mixture  of 
oxygen  and  hydrogen. 

13.  By  what  other  means  may  union  be  effected  in  such  a 
mixture  ? 

14.  State  the  composition  of  pure  water. 

15.  Show    the  constancy  of   composition  of    chemical    com- 
pounds. 


PART   III. 


FOOD  AND  ITS  COOKERY 


FOOD ITS    NATURE    AND    USES.  253 


CHAPTER  25. 

FOOD ITS    NATURE    AND    USES. 

Bodily  Need  Of  Food. — Chemical  analysis  has 
demonstrated  that  the  human  body  consists  of  at  least 
fourteen  separate  and  indispensable  elements.  These 
are  nitrogen,  carbon,  oxygen,  hydrogen,  phosphorus, 
sulphur,  sodium,  potassium,  calcium,  magnesium, 
iron,  silicon,  chlorine,  and  flourine.  Of  these  the 
first  four  are  by  far  the  most  plentiful  within  the  body. 
It  is  known  that  the  organs  of  the  living  body  are  in 
ceaseless  action,  whereby  great  expenditure  of  force 
occurs,  with  consequent  loss  of  material.  It  is  there- 
fore necessary  that  the  system  be  supplied  with  mate- 
rial from  which  to  repair  its  various  parts  ;  such  supplies 
we  called  Food. 

What  is  Food  ?  —  The  term  food  may  then  be 
applied  to  substances  that,  when  taken  into  the  body, 
serve  to  nourish  its  tissues,  and  sustain  its  vital 
energy.*  A  perfect  food  would  be  one  that  contained 
all  of  the  elements  of  the  body  in  a  digestible  condi- 
tion, and  in  the  proper  proportion  to  supply  the  var- 
ious tissues  of  the  body.  Such  a  food -stuff  is  not 
known.     Milk  approaches  this  ideal  standard,  yet   the 

*"  Foods  may  be  defined  as  substances  which,  when  taken  into 
the  alimentary  canal,  are  absorbed  from  it  and  there  serve  either 
to  supply  material  for  the  growth  of  the  body,  or  for  the  replace- 
ment of  matter  which  has  been  removed  from  it,  either  after 
oxidation  or  without  having  been  oxidized."  Martin. 


254 


DOMESTIC    SCIENCE. 


proportions  in  which  the  elements  are  present  in  milk 
fit  it  to  be  a  complete  food  only  for  infants ;  it  is  de- 
ficient in  many  of  the  substances  required  by  adults . 
From  these  statements  we  will  perceive  at  once  the 
necessity  of  employing  a  mixed  diet,  in  which  we  may 
supply  with  one  article  the  elements  lacking  in  an- 
other. 

Classification  Of  Foods.— According  to  composi- 
tion, alimentary  substances,  or  the  simple  constituents 
of  foods  may  be  classified  as  follows : 


£  2 


Water. 

Common  Salt. 

And  certain  compounds  of 

Lime. 

Iron. 

Sulphur. 

Phosphorus. 

Potassium. 

Silicon. 

Magnesium. 


f  Potato  Starch. 
Wheat  Starch. 
f  Starch.  <  Maize  Starch. 
I  I  etc. 


o  a> 


CS 


Carbonaceous 
Substances. 

{  Nitrogenous 
Substauces 

or 
Proteids. 


cccc   f 


I  oi  O 


Sugar. 


{  Amyloids,  i  Gum. 


Saccharose. 
Glucose. 
(        etc. 

f  Arabin. 
<J  Cerasin. 

I  Vegetable  Mucilage. 
I  etc. 

f  Citric     Acid. 
Tartaric    " 


Vegetable  Acids.     <  Malic 
Oxalic 
[Pectin. 
Fats  and  Oils,  j  Volatile  Oils. 
I  Fixed  Oils. 


f  Albumen. 
<  Fibrin. 
Gelatin. 
|  Casein. 
I  Gluten. 


fOlein. 
J  Palmitin. 
)  Stearin. 
I     etc. 


Vinegar. 

Fruit  Juices. 

Essential  Oils. 

Spices.  rgj»fee> 

Artificial  Drinks.     [Cocoa  and  Chocolate. 


FOOD ITS    NATURE    AND    USES.  255 

Mixed  Foods. — A  well-regulated  dietary  should 
include  a  proper  amount  of  each  of  these  classes  of 
food ;  and  by  an  instinctive  tendency  we  select  and 
combine  foods,  to  accomplish  this  purpose.  As  an 
example,  bread  is  rich  in  starch,  a  compound  of  the 
amyloid  group  ;  it  contains  a  small  proportion  of  glu- 
ten, which  is  a  nitrogenous  compound  ;  but  it  is  very 
deficient  in  fat ;  however,  we  are  prone  to  add  butter 
to  our  bread,  thereby  supplying  the  chief  lack.  But 
bread  and  butter  is  an  incomplete  food  ;  it  is  still  poor 
in  nitrogen,  and  we  usually  endeavor  to  add  a  nitro- 
genous element,  such  as  meat  or  eggs,  at  our  meals. 
Potatoes  are  rich  in  carbon  and  hydrogen,  and  in 
many  of  the  mineral  salts  of  food ;  yet  they  are  very 
deficient  in  nitrogenous  substances,  and  we  relish  them 
best  with  meat. 

Moderation    Needed  in   Animal  Diet. — it  is 

beyond  doubt  that  many  people  indulge  too  freely  in 
animal  foods ;  and  others  have  adopted  an  intemper- 
ance of  an  opposite  kind,  by  abstaining  from  animal 
matters  entirely.  Nitrogenous  foods  we  must  have,  and 
these  are  advantageously  supplied  through  the  medium 
of  animal  products.  It  is  not  necessary  that  flesh  be 
frequently  eaten ;  milk,  butter,  cheese,  and  eggs  are 
rich  in  albuminoids.  The  indications  of  chemical  and 
physiological  science,  and  above  these,  the  voice  of 
reason  and  the  experience  of  the  human  race,  declare 
that  though  excessive  indulgence  in  animal  food  is 
highly  injurious,  yet  strict  vegetarianism  is  not  a 
proper  course. 

The  Quantity  Of  Food  needed   for  proper  bodily 


256  DOMESTIC    SCIENCE. 

support  varies  widely  in  different  persons.  The  state 
of  the  person's  health,  the  amount  of  exercise  taken, 
the  climate,  and  many  other  circumstances  unite  to 
regulate  the  demand  for  food.  The  natural  appetite, 
un vitiated  by  improper  habits,  weakening  depriva- 
tion, or  unwarranted  excesses,  is  one's  best  guide. 
From  numerous  observations,  in  many  climes  and  on 
persons  of  different  temperaments,  it  is  believed  that 
the  average  individual  requirements  call  for  23  ounces 
dry  solid  matter,  and  70  to  80  ounces  of  liquid  per 
day.  Dr.  Hutchinson  places  the  average  daily  quan- 
tity of  food  and  drink  for  a  healthy  man  at  6  pounds  ; 
and  divides  this  amount  as  follows :  three  and  one-half 
pounds  from  the  mineral  kingdom,  including  water 
and  salt;  one  and  one-half  pounds  from  the  veg- 
etable kingdom,  including  bread,  vegetables,  and  fruits  ; 
and  one  pound  from  the  animal  kingdom,  comprising 
meat,  eggs,  butter,  and  such. 
Digestibility  of  Food  Stuffs. — Xot  all  substances 

containing  the  elements  of  the  human  body  are  fitted 
for  use  as  food-stuffs.  A  food  must  contain  the 
essential  elements  already  named,  in  digestible  condi- 
tion. As  an  example  of  this  necessity,  consider  the 
case  of  carbon,  which  forms  so  large  a  proportion  of 
most  of  our  ordinary  food  materials,  and  is  so  indis- 
pensable to  the  well-being  of  the  body.  Carbon  in 
its  purest  and  uncombined  state*  is  entirely  indigesti- 

*The  purest  carbon  exists  in  a  crystalized  form  as  the  dia- 
mond. Other  forms  of  uncombined  carbon  are  graphite  or 
plumbago  (the  "black  lead"  of  pencils),  charcoal,  coke,  gas- 
carbon,  and  lamp  black.  Though  these  consist  almost  entirely  of 
this  essential  element  of  food,  yet  they  are  indigestible  and  con- 
sequently unfitted  for  diet. 


FOOD ITS    NATURE    AND    USES.  257 

ble,  and  consequently  valueless  as  food.  A  lump  of 
charcoal  contains  far  more  carbon  than  does  the  same 
weight  of  bread  ;  yet  the  carbon  of  the  bread  may  be 
assimilated  within  the  body  and  become  part  of  the 
tissues ;  whereas  charcoal,  if  introduced  into  the 
stomach,  would  serve  mainly  to  derange  the  digestive 
functions.  Another  example, — nitrogen  is  abun- 
dantly present  in  the  muscular  tissues,  and  in 
some  proportion  it  is  present  in  all  the  bodily  parts  ; 
there  is  consequently  a  great  demand  for  this  element. 
The  air  about  us  contains  nitrogen  to  the  extent  of 
four -fifths  of  its  entire  bulk ;  yet  this  atmospheric 
nitrogen  is  valueless  as  a  food  ;  it  enters  the  body  at 
every  respiratory  inhalation,  and  escapes  unchanged 
when  the  breath  is  expelled.  Free  nitrogen  is  not 
assimilated  by  the  tissues  ;  indeed  the  body  seems  un- 
able to  use  the  chemical  elements  as  food,  until  they 
have  been  brought  together  as  compounds  through  the 
agency  of  plant  or  animal  life. 

Plants  Supply  Food.— This  is  true  of  all  human 
and  animal  bodies  ;  they  cannot  live  on  unorganized 
matter  ;  plants  may  absorb  and  assimilate  mineral  sub- 
stances, but  animals  do  not  possess  this  power.  In 
our  own  bodies  we  can  use  comparatively  complicated 
materials  only, — substances  that  have  been  already 
organized  under  the  influences  of  life.  It  is  a  natural 
law  that  men  and  animals  shall  be  supported  by  the 
plant  kingdom  ;*  if  they  feed  upon  animal  bodies, 
these  have  been  nourished  by  plants,  so  that  their  sub- 

*  "Plants  may  be  considered  as  the  laboratory  in  which  Nature 
prepares  aliment  for  animals."  Richeraxd. 


258  DOMESTIC    SCIENCE. 

sistence  comes  directly  or  indirectly  from  the  vegetable 
kingdom. 

Food-stuffs  Must  be  Readily  Soluble.— Now  we 

may  very  properly  ask,  what  are  the  essentials  of  this 
condition  of  digestibility  in  food  materials?  In  the 
first  place,  to  be  available  as  food,  substances  must  be 
readily  soluble  in  the  digestive  fluids.  This  dissolv- 
ing action  may  be  in  some  degree  imitated  outside  the 
body.  Chemical  mixtures  have  been  prepared,  analog- 
ous in  composition  to  the  digestive  juices ;  and  in 
these,  food  materials  have  been  dissolved.  Thus  one 
part  of  the  digestive  process  may  be  carried  on  in 
glass  flasks  before  our  eyes.  Any  soluble  substance 
may  be  thus  dissolved  ;  the  artificially  prepared  mix- 
ture acts  alike  on  all  soluble  matters.  Not  so,  how- 
ever, with  the  body  ;  its  digestible  apparatus  is  more 
complicated  than  a  mere  collection  of  vessels  and 
tubes  ;  it  is  a  sensitive,  living  organism,  and  rejects 
food  that  is  not  pleasing  to  the  senses. 

Foods  Must  be  Palatable.— A  food  preparation 
that  excites  disgust  in  the  mind*  will  be  digested  only 
with  difficulty,  and  in  some  cases  not  at  all;  though  it 
may  be  from  a  chemical  point  of  view  very  nutritious. 
Several  years  ago  Edwards  and  Balzac,  two  French 
academicians,  performed  some  noted  experiments  by 
feeding  dogs  on  prepared  food  and  carefully  noting 
results.     The  animals  were  kept  for  days  on  a  prepara- 


*  The  digestive  organs,  as  indeed  is  the  ease  with  all  other 
bodily  parts,  are  readily  affected  by  the  varying  conditions  of  the 
mind.  Many  a  person  while  eating  with  relish,  has  suddenly 
"lost  his  appetite"  under  the  influence  of  some  strong  emotion, 
either  joyous  or  distressing. 


MINERAL    INGREDIENTS    OF    FOOD.  259 

tion  of  gelatine  soup  mixed  with  bread, — chemically 
speaking  a  very  nutritious  diet,  though  almost  devoid  of 
flavor.  After  a  few  meals  of  this  stuff,  the  dogs  evinced 
decided  dislike,  and  finally  refused  to  eat  more  of  the 
insipid  mess  though  they  were  suffering  the  pangs  of 
starvation.  The  experimenters  then  mixed  with  the 
daily  allowance  of  gelatine  about  two  tablespoonfuls  of 
meat  -  broth  ;  this  gave  to  the  soup  a  pleasing  flavor ; 
the  dogs  ate  ravenously  of  it.  One  animal  that  had 
already  lost  a  fifth  of  its  weight  under  the  ptire  gelatine 
regimen,  began  immediately  to  improve,  and  in 
twenty -three  days  from  the  time  of  the  change  in  diet 
the  creature  was  heavier  than  before  the  experiments 
were  begun.  Tests  of  a  similar  kind  have  been  com- 
menced on  human  beings.  Men  have  been  kept  on 
pure  chemical  preparations,  containing  all  the  needed 
elements,  but  devoid  of  attractive"  savors  ;  and  it  is 
beyond  doubt  that,  had  the  trials  been  sufficiently  pro- 
longed, fatal  results  would  have  followed. 

Purpose  of  Cookery. — Much  of  our  food  has 
to  be  prepared  for  the  table  by  a  process  of  cook- 
ing. The  aim  of  this  art  is  to  render  food 
materials  more  easily  digestible  than  they  are  in  the 
raw  and  purely  natural  state,  and  to  develop  pleasing 
savors.*  Any  operation  in  cookery  which  fails  to 
accomplish  both  of  these   ends,  serves  its  purpose  in- 


*  In  their  efforts  to  teach  people  that  mastication  and  insaliva- 
tion  of  food  are  important  steps  in  the  digestive  process,  physi- 
ologists have  long  declared  that  "digestion  begins  in  the 
mouth;"  now,  however,  this  saying  has  with  propriety  been 
changed,  and  may  be  more  properly  rendered  as  "digestion  should 
begin  in  the  cook  room." 


260  DOMESTIC    SCIENCE. 

completely.  In  its  effects  upon  human  kind  the  art  of 
cookery  exceeds  the  influence  of  the  fine  arts.  The 
use  of  poorly  cooked  and  insipid  food  has  led  many 
people  to  indulgence  in  spirituous  liquors,  whereby 
they  hoped  to  stop  the  unsatisfied  craving  for  a  pleasing 
diet. 


REVIEW. 

1.  Define  food. 

2.  What  would  be  the  characteristics  of  a  perfect  and  com- 
plete food  ? 

3.  Write  a  classification  of  foods. 

4.  Show  the  necessity  of  a  variety  of  food  materials. 

5.  What  is  your  opinion  as  to  the  propriety  of  using  meat 
for  food  ? 

6.  Show  the  necessity  of  the  food  materials  we  eat  being  in  a 
soluble  condition. 

7.  Into  what  physical  condition  must  all  food  stuffs  be  re- 
duced before  they  can  be  abssrbed  and  assimilated  within  the 
body? 

8.  Why  should  food  be  made  pleasing  to  the  senses  ? 

9.  Describe  the  notable  experiments  of  the  French  scientists 
Edwards  and  Balzac. 

10.  What  is  the  object  of  cooking  ? 

11.  What  bad  effects  may  follow  the  effect  of  poorly  cooked 
and  unsavory  food  ? 


MINERAL    INGREDIENTS    OF    FOOD.  261 


CHAPTER    26. 

MINERAL  INGREDIENTS  OF  FOOD. 

Mineral    Substances  in   the    Body.— Certain 

mineral  matters  are  indespensable  to  the  growth  of  the 
body ;  the  chief  of  these  are  water,  common  salt,  and 
certain  compounds  of  calcium,  magnesium,  iron,  sod- 
ium, and  potassium;  also  chlorine  which  is  present  in 
common  salt ;  and  sulphur,  phosphorus,  and  silicon 
which  are  combined  with  the  metals  named  above. 
Except  water  and  salt,  however,  these  mineral  sub- 
stances are  absorbed  within  the  body  only  when  in 
combination  with  organic  matters. 

The  phosphates  of  calcium,  magnesium,  and  potas- 
sium are  needed  for  the  formation  of  bone,  muscle, 
brain  and  nervous  tissue ;  iron  is  an  essential  ingred- 
ient of  the  red  corpuscles  of  the  blood  ;  the  alkalies, 
potash  and  soda,  are  required  for  the  blood  and  for 
many  of  the  solid  tissues  ;  salt  is  needed  throughout 
the  system,  and  water  composes  from  two -thirds  to 
three-fourths  of  the  whole  bodily  weight.  The  im- 
portance of  the  mineral  ingredients  of  food  is  therefore 
clear. 

Water  has  already  received  a  somewhat  extensive 
treatment,  an  entire  section  of  this  little  book  having 
been  devoted  to  its  consideration.  A  mere  mention  at 
this  point  must  therefore  suffice.  The  table  on  page 
179  shows  the   proportions   of  the    liquid   present   in 


262  DOMESTIC    SCIENCE. 

different  tissues  of  the  body.  Water  is  a  universal 
carrier.  No  solid  matter  is  absorbed  in  the  bodies  of 
men,  animals,  or  plants  except  in  solution. 

Common  Salt  exists  as  an  essential  constituent  of 
all  solids  and  fluids  of  the  human  body.  In  the  blood, 
salt  is  present  in  greater  quantity  than  any  other  mineral 
ingredient,  except  water.  Dalton  gives  the  following 
proportions  of  salt  present  in  certain  tissues  and  prod- 
ucts of  the  human  body  ;  the  figures  state  the  parts  of 
the  solid  present  in  a  thousand  parts  of  the  substances 
named  : 


Common  salt  present 

in  1000  parts. 

Muscle 

2.    parts 

Bone 

2.5       " 

Cartilage 

2.8        " 

Milk 

1. 

Saliva 

1.5 

Bile 

3.5 

Blood 

4.5       " 

Mucus 

6. 

Salt  is  present  as  a  natural  constituent  in  many 
articles  of  diet ;  but  to  supply  the  requisite  quantity 
it  is  added  to  the  food  as  a  condiment.  Moderation 
in  its  use,  however,  is  essential  to  health.  It  is  pos- 
sible to  acquire  a  disordered  appetite  through  the 
lavish  use  of  salt ;  the  craving  for  condiments  once 
started  within  the  body  is  liable  to  grow  till  it  becomes 
a  serious  habit.  Salt  excites  the  nerves  of  taste,  and 
renders  pleasing  food  that  otherwise  would  be  insipid 
and  tasteless.  In  the  absence  of  salt,  food  could  be 
but  imperfectly  digested,  and  a  long  continued  depri- 
vation of  this  substance  would  seriously  affect  the 
bodily  powers,  and  would  lay  the  system  open  to  the 


MINERAL    INGREDIENTS    OF    FOOD.  263 

inroads  of  disease.  In  Holland  there  was  once  a  law, 
that  for  certain  grave  offenses,  prisoners  should  be  fed 
on  food  entirely  free  from  salt ;  this  was  regarded  as 
the  severest  punishment  that  could  be  inflicted.  Few 
sufferers  long  survived  treatment  of  this  kind  ;  their 
craving  for  salt  grew  so  intense  as  to  induce  insanity  ; 
and  their  bodies  became  fatally  disordered.  Salt  is  no 
less  essential  to  animals  than  to  the  human  being. 
Without  salt  our  domestic  animals  become  dull  and 
diseased;  their  skins  grow  rough,  and  much  of  the 
hair  falls.  Stock -keepers  know  from  experience  the 
value  of  providing  their  animals  with  a  free  supply  of 
salt.  Wild  beasts  whose  wariness  secures  them 
against  being  entrapped  by  tempting  baits  of  food, 
are  readily  captured  at  natural  or  artificially  prepared 
"salt  licks."  In  some  parts  of  the  world,  where  salt  is 
scarce,  the  article  commands  a  very  high  price.* 


*"In  man,  the  desire  for  salt  is  so  great  that  in  regions  where  it 
is  scarce  it  is  used  as  money.  In  some  parts  of  Africa  a  small 
quantity  of  salt  will  buy  a  slave,  and  to  say  that  a  man  commonly 
uses  salt  at  his  meals  is  equivalent  to  stating  that  he  is  a  luxurious 
millionaire.  In  British  India,  where  the  poorer  natives  regard 
so  few  things  as  necessaries  of  life  that  it  is  hard  to  levy  any 
excise  tax,  a  large  part  of  the  revenue  is  derived  from  a  salt  tax, 
salt  being  something  which  even  the  poorest  will  buy.  As  regards 
Europe,  it  has  been  found  that  youths  in  the  Austrian  Empire 
who  have  fled  to  the  mountains,  and  there  led  a  wild  life  to 
avoid  the  hated  military  conscription,  will,  after  a  time,  though 
able  abundantly  to  supply  themselves  with  other  food  by  hunt- 
ing, come  down  to  the  villages  to  purchase  salt,  at  the  risk  o 
liberty,  and  even  of  life."— Dr.  Newell  Martin. 

"Animals  will  travel  long  distances  to  obtain  salt.  Men  will 
barter  gold  for  it;  indeed  among  the  Gallas  and  on  the  coast  of 
Sierra  Leone,  brothers  will  sell  their  sisters,  husbands  their  wives, 
and  parents  their  children  for  salt.  In  the  district  of  Accra,  on 
the  gold  coast  of  Africa,  a  handful  of  salt  is  the  most  valuable 


264  DOMESTIC    SCIENCE. 

Natural  Occurrences  of  Salt. — Yet  the  natural 

sources  of  salt  are  apparently  inexhaustible.  Yast 
deposits  of  it  occur  in  the  earth,  and  streams  of  water 
flowing  to  the  sea  carry  the  substance  in  solution  to 
their  ocean  bed.  Sea  water  contains  on  an  average 
three  per  cent,  of  salt ;  the  waters  of  the  Great  Salt 
Lake  contain  about  eighteen  per  cent,  of  their  weight 
of  salt.  Some  varieties  of  commercial  salt  are  very 
impure,  containing  considerable  quantities  of  magne- 
sium and  lime  in  combination.  Utah  possesses 
natural  salt  in  apparently  unlimited  quantities ;  vast 
deposits  of  rock  salt  occur  throughout  Sanpete  and 
Sevier  Counties,  and  so  in  other  parts ;  and  the  waters 
of  Salt  Lake  could  supply  the  world  with  salt  for  a 
long  period. 


thing  on  earth  after  gold,  and  will  purchase  a  slave  or  two. 
Mungo  Park  tells  us  that  with  the  Man  dingoes  and  Bambaras  the 
use  of  salt  is  such  a  luxury  that  to  say  of  a  man  '  he  flavors  his 
food  with  salt,'  is  to  imply  that  he  is  rich;  and  children  will  suck 
apiece  of  rock  salt  as  if  it  were  sugar.  Xo  stronger  mark  of 
respect  or  affection  can  be  shown  in  Muscovy  than  the  sending  of 
salt  from  the  tables  of  the  rich  to  their  poorer  friends.  In  the 
book  of  Leviticus  it  is  expressly  commanded  as  one  of  the  ordin- 
ances of  Moses,  that  every  oblation  of  meat  upon  the  altar  shall 
be  seasoned  with  salt,  without  lacking,  and  hence  it  is  called  the 
Salt  of  the  Covenant  of  God.  The  Greeks  and  Romans  also  used 
salt  in  their  sacrificial  cakes;  and  it  is  still  used  in  the  services  of 
the  Latin  church — the  ' parva  mica,'  or  pinch  of  salt,  being,  in  the 
ceremony  of  baptism,  put  into  the  child's  mouth,  while  the  priest 
says,  '  Receive  the  salt  of  wisdom,  and  may  it  be  a  propitiation  to 
thee  for  eternal  life.'  Everywhere,  and  almost  always,  indeed,  it 
has  been  regarded  as  emblematical  of  wisdom,  wit,  and  immor- 
tality. To  taste,  a  man's  salt  was  to  be  bound  by  the  rites  of 
hospitality:  and  no  oath  was  more  solemn  than  that  which  was 
sworn  upon  bread  and  salt.  To  sprinkle  the  meat  with  salt  was  to 
drive  away  the  devil,  and  to  this  day,  nothing  is  more  unlucky 
than  to  spill  the  salt."— Letherby. 


M1NEKAL    IMGRED1EMTS    OF    FOOD.  '265 

Lime  is  the  most  abundant  of  the  solid  inorganic 
ingredients  of  the  human  body.  It  is  present  in  all 
tissues  and  liquids  of  the  system  though  in  widely 
varying  quantities.  It  occurs  mostly  as  calcium  phos- 
phate, and  less  abundantly  as  calcium  carbonate. 
According  to  Dalton,  the  following  figures  show  the 
quantity  of  calcium  phosphate  in  1000  parts  of  the 
tissues  and  fluids  named  : 


Lime  phosphate 

in  1000  parts. 

Teeth 

650 

Bones 

550 

Cartilages     - 

40 

^Muscles 

2.5 

Blood 

0.8 

Gastric  juice 

0.4 

The  hardest  substance  of  the  body  is  the  enamel  of  the 
teeth  ;  this  consists  mostly  of  lime  salts,  the  phosphate 
being  in  excess.  Lime  imparts  strength  and  rigidity 
to  the  bony  skeleton  ;  a  deficiency  of  it  causes  pliancy 
and  disease  of  the  bones.  In  early  life,  the  bones  are 
naturally  soft,  because,  ossification  being  then  incom- 
plete, the  animal  matters  of  the  bones  exceed  in 
quantity  the  mineral  substances  ;  children,  therefore, 
require  a  comparatively  large  amount  of  lime  salts  ; 
and  this  is  best  supplied  through  means  of  a  generous 
diet  of  milk  and  grain  preparations,  with  a  very  mod- 
erate allowance  of  animal  food  other  than  milk. 

A  common  and  an  instructive  demonstration  of  the 
importance  of  lime  compounds  in  the  bones,  may  be 
made  by  soaking  a  bone  in  dilute  acid,  thereby  remov- 
ing the  mineral   substances.       Procure   a  rib  for  the 


266  DOMESTIC    SCIENCE. 

purpose :  it  being  in  shape  long  and  slender  will  be 
well  adapted.  Place  the  bone  in  a  mixture  of  one  part 
muriatic  acid  and  fifteen  parts  water;  allow  it  to  re- 
main in  the  acid  during  a  few  days,  then  remove  and 
wash  it.  The  bone  will  be  found  soft  and  pliable,  so 
that  it  may  be  easily  bent  in  any  desired  form,  or  even 
tied  in  a  knot  as  illustrated  in  figure  88.  The  animal 
tissue  that  remains  after  the  treatment  with  acid  will 
dry  and   become  hard  and  transparent. 


Fig.  88. 
Bone,  after  treatment  with  acid,  tied  in  a  knot. 

Iron  constitutes  about  one -thousandth  part  of  the 
weight  of  the  blood  ;  it  is  essential  to  the  red  color  of 
the  blood  corpuscles.  In  the  entire  body  there  is  about 
five  drachms  of  iron.  When  the  blood  is  deficient  in 
this  element,  it  becomes  pale  in  color,  the  skin  as- 
sumes an  unnatural  pallor,  and  the  bodily  strength 
very  rapidly  diminishes.  It  is  then  a  common  practice 
in  medicine  to  administer  iron  in  a  soluble  form,  usu- 
ally as  the  tincture  of  iron  per-chloride,  or  as  iron 
citrate.  Iron  is  supplied  in  the  food  through  the 
medium  of  milk  and  eggs,  and  many  vegetable  articles 
of  diet. 


MINERAL    INGREDIENTS    OF    FOOD.  267 

Sulphur  and  Phosphorus,  though  present  in  very 
small  quantities,  are  still  essential  within  the  body. 
These  substances  occur  mostly  in  combination,  as 
phosphates  and  sulphates  of  calcium,  magnesium, 
potassium,  and  sodium.  Dr.  Foster  says:  "The  ele- 
ment phosphorus  seems  no  less  important  from  a  bio- 
logical point  of  view  than  carbon  or  nitrogen.  It  is  as 
absolutely  essential  for  the  growth  of  a  lowly  being 
like  penicillium*  as  for  man  himself.  We  find  it 
peculiarly  associated  with  the  proteids,  apparently  in 
the  form  of  phosphates,  but  we  cannot  explain  its 
role.  The  element  sulphur,  again,  is  only  second  to 
phosphorus,  and  we  find  it  as  a  constituent  of  nearly 
all  proteids,  but  we  cannot  tell  exactly  what  would 
happen  to  the  economy  if  all  the  sulphur  of  the  food 
were  withdrawn." 

The  compounds  of  magnesium,  potassium,  sodium, 
and  silicon,  which  are  called  for  in  much  smaller 
quantity  than  are  the  substances  already  named,  are 
present  in  ordinary  food  stuffs,  and  are  seldom  found 
in  insufficient  quantity  within  the  body. 

Mineral    Ingredients    of   Food    Within    the 

Body. — The  mineral  elements  of  food  as  a  rule  do  not 
undergo  chemical  change  by  decomposition  or  combi- 
nation within  the  body.  They  are  absorbed  with  the 
food  and  enter  the  tissues,  forming  an  indispensable 
part  of  the  body  substance ;  then  they  are  removed  by 
the  processes  of  secretion,  and  their  place  supplied  by 

*  Penicillium — the  common  green  mold  or  mildew,  so  common  in 
damp  situations,  as  upon  old  shoes,  bread,  vegetables,  fruits,  and 
jams.    Ii  is  a  living  thing;  a  plant  belonging  the  order  of  fungi. 


268  DOMESTIC    SCIENCE. 

other  particles  of  the  same  kind.  The  changes  pro- 
duced upon  mineral  matters  by  the  processes  of  cook- 
ing are  so  light  as  to  be  inconsiderable  for  our  present 
purpose. 


REVIEW. 

1.  Name  the  principal  mineral  matters  indispensable  to  the 
bodily  growth. 

2.  Show  the  occurrence  of  mineral  matters  in  the  different 
parts  of  the  body. 

3.  Show  that  water  is  an  essential  ingredient  of  living  bodies. 

4.  Show  the  occurrence  of  salt  within  the  human  body. 

5.  Give  instances  of  the  ill  effects  of  depriving  the  body  of 
salt. 

6.  Relate  some  of  the  instances  quoted  to  illustrate  man's 
craving  for  salt. 

7.  What  do  you  know  of  the  natural  occurrence  of  salt  in 
Utah? 

8.  Show  the  occurrence  of  lime  within  the  human  body. 

9.  Describe  a  demonstration  of  the  value  of  lime  as  an  in- 
gredient of  the  bones. 

10.  What  do  you  know  of  the  occurrence  of  iron  in  the  body  ? 

11.  Discuss  the  value  of  the  compounds  of  sulphur  within  the 
body. 

12.  Of  phosphorus  compounds. 

13.  Of  magnesium  compounds. 

14.  Of  potassium  compounds. 

15.  Of  sodium  compounds. 

16.  Of  silicon  compounds. 


ORGANIC    INGREDIENTS    OF    FOOD.  269 


CHAPTER  27. 

ORGANIC  INGREDIENTS  OF  FOOD  ;  CARBONACEOUS  FOODS  : 
STARCH,  SUGAR,  GUM. 

Organic  Food  Matters. — Certain  food  materials 
occur  in  Nature  as  products  of  animal  or  vegetable  life 
only ;  such  are  called  organic  foods,  to  distinguish 
them  from  mineral  matters.  The  organic  ingredients 
of  food  may  be  classified  as  shown  on  page  254. 

Carbonaceous  Food  Substances;  Amyloids;— 

These  claim  our  attention  first ;  they  are  so  named 
because  of  the  predominance  of  carbon  as  an  element 
of  their  composition.  The  amyloids,  such  as  the 
starches  and  the  sugars,  consist  entirely  of  carbon, 
hydrogen,  and  oxygen  ;  they  are  therefore  known 
chemically  as  carbohydrates.  The  fats  contain  the 
same  elements,  though  in  different  proportions, 
oxygen  being  present  in  them  in  very  small  quantity. 
The  amyloid  group  of  food  substances  includes  starch, 
sugar,  and  gum,  of  each  of  which  there  are  many 
varieties. 

Starch  in  its  prepared  form  appears  as  a  white 
powder,  possessing  a  gritty  feel  if  rubbed  between 
the  fingers.  When  viewed  through  the  microscope 
the  powder  will  be  seen  to  consist  of  minute  rounded 
grains,  the  exact  form  varying  in  starches  from  differ- 
ent sources.       Figure   89    represents   starch   granules 


270 


DOMESTIC    SCIENCE. 


from  the  potato ;  these  particles  are  somewhat  like 
clam  shells,  the  surface  of  each  beiDg  marked  by  wav- 
ing lines  concentric  about  a  point  known  as  the  Jiilum, 

which  point  marks  the 
place  at  which  the 
grain  was  originally 
attached  to  the  cell 
wall.  Grains  of  pota- 
to starch  vary  in  size 
from  Yioooo  to  l/m  of 
an  inch  in  diameter. 
The  grains  of  wheat 
starch  are  represented 
Fi&-  89.  in  figure  90  ;  these  are 

Potato  starch  granules;  (magnified)  8maller  than  the  pre- 
ceding ;  they  rarely  exceed  V700  inch  in  diameter,  and 
from  that  they   vary  to  Yioooo.      Starch  granules  from 

wheat  present  a  circular 
outline  ;  though  many  of 
the  grains  are  flattened, 
so  that  in  a  side  view 
they  present  a  narrow 
edge.  Starch  from  oats 
consists  of  large,  com- 
pound granules,  which 
under  pressure  may  be 
readily  broken  into  sec- 
tions. Starch  grains 
from  maize,  or  Indian 
corn,  and  the  grains  of  rice  starch  are  irregular  in 
form,  many  of  them  presenting  an  angular  outline. 


Fig.  90. 
Wheat  starch ;    (magnified) 


ORGANIC    INGREDIENTS    OF    FOOD. 


271 


Starch  in  Plants. — Starch  is  of  common  oc- 
currence in  plants.  At  certain  seasons  the  substance 
accumulates  within  the  body  of  the  plant  in  great 
quantity ;  starch  is  the  form  in  which  the  plant 
stores  its  food  material  for  future  growth.*  Its  wide 
occurrence  is  shown  by  the  following  table  : 


Average  percentage 

of  starch. 

Potatoes           .          .                                15.70 

Peas 

32.45 

White  beans    . 

33.00 

Kidney  beans 

35.94 

Buckwheat 

52.00 

Rye  flour 
Oatmeal 

56.00 
59.00 

Wheat  kernel 

59.5 

Rye  meal 

61.07 

Barley  meal     . 

67.18 

Wheat  flour     . 

72.00 

Maize 

80.92 

Rice 

85.07 

Certain  articles  of  diet  consist  almost  entirely  of 
starch,  such  are  corn -starch,  arrowroot,  sago,  tapioca 
and  rice  ;  these  will  receive  our  future  attention.  For 
the  present  let  us  examine  the  living  plant  and  inform 
ourselves  of  the  way  in  which  starch  is  stored  within 
it.  The  microscope  has  revealed  the  important  fact  that 
all  plant  tissue  consists  of  thin -walled  inclosures 
known  as  cells,  and  within  these  the  secretions  peculiar 
to  the  plant   are  formed.     Figure  91  shows  three  sec- 


*The  food  material  being  stored  within  the  plant  in  the  form  of 
starch,  and  starch  being  insoluble  in  cold  water,  the  plant  stores 
are  safe  from  loss  by  rains  or  floods.  This  insoluble  starch  is 
changed  to  a  soluble  sugar  as  fast  as  the  plant  requires  the 
material  for  its  own  growth. 


272 


DOMESTIC    SCIENCE. 


tions  of  plant  tissue  containing  starch  granules  ;  the 
upper  left  hand  sketch  illustrates  a  potato  cell ;  the 
other  upper  section  is  that  of  an  oat  seed,  and  the 
lower  one  represents  a  wheat  kernel. 


Fig.  91. 
Plant  cells  filled  with  starch. 


Starch  is  scarcely  soluble  at  all  in  cold  water ;  but, 
when  heated  in  water  near  the  boiling  point,  the 
grains  absorb  liquid,  and  burst,  forming  a  jelly  or 
paste.  In  this  form,  starch  is  of  use  for  laundry  pur- 
poses; this  "  boiled  starch"  is  not  a  true  solution, 
however ;  the  starch  and  water  may  be  almost  entirely 
separated  by  freezing.  The  fact  that  cold  water  has 
so  little  solvent  effect  on  starch,  suggests  a  method  for 
its  preparation. 

Grate  some  potatoes  to  the  condition  of  a  fine  pulp  ; 
place  this  within  a  bag  of  coarse  muslin  ;  immerse  in 
water  and  knead  well   under  the   liquid.     The  water 


ORGANIC    INGREDIENTS    OF    FOOD. 


273 


soon  becomes  milky,  and  after  a  time  a  white  powder 
settles  to  the  bottom.  This  is  starch;  it  may  be  re- 
moved from  the  water  and  dried.  Wheat  flour  may 
be  treated  in  the  same  way  and  starch  procured  from 
it. 

Sugar  is  a  sweet  vegetable  product,  found  in  the 
juice  of  cane,  the  roots  of  beets,  the  sap  of  certain 
trees,  and  in  many  fruits.  In  a  chemical  sense  there 
are  many  kinds  of  sugar,  the  chief  of  which  are  sac- 
charose or  cane  sugar,  glucose  or  grape  sugar,  levulose 
or  the  sugar  of  fruit,  and  lactose  or  sugar  of  milk. 

Saccharose  is  found  in  a  fairly  pure  form,  as  loaf 
and  granulated  sugar  of  commerce,  though  a  still 
purer  kind  is  met  with  in  the  uncolored  and  crystal- 
lized rock -candy.  This  is  the  most  sweetening  of  all 
common  sugars.  It  is  prepared  chiefly  from  the  sugar 
cane,  sugar  beet,  and  sugar  maple.  It  may  also  be 
produced  from  sorghum,  and  in  smaller  quantity  from 
the  juices  of  many  other  plants,  as  maize,  parsnips, 
carrots,  etc.  The  following  table  shows  the  propor- 
tions of  sugar  present  in  different  products  : 


Per  cent 

of   sugar. 

Indian  corn 

1.5 

Peas 

2. 

Ryemeal 

3.2 

Oatmeal 

4.8 

Barley  meal 

5.2 

Wheat  flour 

5.4 

Beets 

9.0 

Ripe  pears 

11.5 

Ripe  peaches 

16.5 

Ripe  cherries 

18.1 

Figs 

62. 

274  DOMESTIC    SCIENCE. 

Saccharose  melts  at  about  356°  F.,  and  if  cooled 
rapidly  from  that  temperature  it  forms  a  granular  mass 
known  as  barley  sugar ;  of  this  the  prepared  candies 
largely  consist.  If  a  higher  heat  be  applied  to  sugar  it 
becomes  burnt  or  caramelized.  Caramel  is  used  as  a 
coloring  agent  in  cooking. 

The  Preparation  of  Saccharose  from  vegetable 

liquids  is  an  instructive  process.  The  juice  is  obtained 
by  pressure ;  it  is  then  mixed  with  a  quantity  of  lime 
to  neutralize  any  free  acid  present  and  to  assist  in  set- 
tling the  impurities  ;  the  clarified  juice  is  then  evapor- 
ated, and  the  product  is  crude,  brown  sugar,  com- 
monly known  as  Muscovado  sugar.  This  is  to  be 
purified.  It  is  dissolved  in  water  and  the  solution  is 
decolorized  by  being  heated  with  bone  black  or  animal 
charcoal.  It  is  then  clarified  by  an  addition  of  albu- 
men, usually  in  the  form  of  blood  ;  this  by  its  coagula- 
tion and  settling  carries  most  of  the  impurities  to  the 
bottom.  The  liquid  is  then  evaporated,  and  the  crys- 
talizing  sugar  is  separated  by  centrifugal  power.  To 
prevent  burning  of  the  sugar,  the  evaporation  is  con- 
ducted in  vacuum  pans,  which  are  vessels  so  con- 
structed as  to  cause  the  removal  of  the  vapor  as  fast  as 
formed  ;  by  these  means  the  pressure  upon  the  liquid 
is  reduced  and  the  boiling  proceeds  at  a  much  lower 
temperature.  The  purified  article  appears  as  loaf  or 
granulated  sugar. 

The  syrup  remaining  after  the  crystallization,  is 
known  as  molasses,  sometimes  called  treacle,  though 
much  molasses  is  made  from  sorghum  juices  without 
any  separation  of  sugar.     The  difficulties  thus  far  ex- 


ORGANIC    INGREDIENTS    OF    FOOD.  275 

perienced  in  the  preparation  of  sugar  from  sorghum 
have  been  largely  due  to  the  ready  inversion  of  the 
contained  saccharose,  by  which  it  becomes  changed 
into  glucose  and  levulose.  These  obstacles  have  been 
mostly  overcome  during  recent  years,  and  a  very 
good  article  of  sugar  is  now  obtainable  from  sorghum 
cane. 

Glucose  or  grape  sugar  occurs  in  many  fruits,  being 
specially  plentiful  in  grapes.  This  sugar  does  not 
readily  crystallize,  and  its  sweetening  power  is  not 
more  than  three -fifths  that  of  cane  sugar.  It  may  be 
prepared  from  starch  by  simple  processes.  Several 
large  establishments  in  the  United  States  are  devoted 
entirely  to  the  manufacture  of  glucose  from  Indian 
corn.  As  a  result  of  extended  tests  it  is  believed  that 
glucose  is  no  more  unwholesome  as  an  article  of  food 
than  is  true  cane  sugar,  though  doubtlessly  extensive 
frauds  are  in  operation  by  which  saccharose  is  largely 
adulterated  with  the  cheaper  glucose.  The  transform- 
ation of  starch  into  glucose  takes  place  in  the  sprout- 
ing of  seeds ;  plants  store  their  food  supplies  within 
the  seeds  as  insoluble  starch  ;  when  germination  begins 
the  starch  becomes  glucose,  and  is  easily  absorbed  and 
assimilated  by  the  growing  plant.  It  is  an  easy  matter 
also  by  chemical  means  to  transform  saccharose  into  a 
mixture  of  glucose  and  levulose  ;  but  thus  far  no  sat- 
isfactory method  of  making  the  reverse  transformation, 
namely,  from  glucose  to  the  sweeter  saccharose,  has 
been  devised. 

Vegetable  Gums  are  by  no  means  inconsiderable 
as  elements   of  food,  though  in  this   country  they  are 


276 


DOMESTIC    SCIENCE. 


seldom  used  in  special  food  preparations.  The  princi- 
pal gums  that  enter  into  the  composition  of  food  stuffs 
are  arabin  or  gum  arabic,  cerasin  or  the  gum  from 
cherries  and  plums,  and  vegetable  mucilage  which 
occurs  in  almost  all  kinds  of  plants.  Gum  is  present 
in  considerable  quantity  in  grains  and  in  preparations 
from  them.  The  following  table,  according  to  Von 
Bibra,  shows  the  proportion  of  gum  in  several  dry 
plant  products  : 


Per  cent,  of 

gum. 

Wheat  kernel 

4.50 

Wheat  flour 

6.25 

Wheat  bran 

8.25 

Rye  kernel 

4.10 

Rye  flour 

7.25 

Rye  bran 

10.40 

Barley  flour 

6.33 

Barley  bran 

6.88 

Oatmeal 

3.50 

Rice  flour 

2.00 

Millet  flour 

10.60 

Maize  meal 

3.05 

Buckwheat  flour 

2.85 

Dextrin. — By  heating  starch  to  a  temperature  of 
300°  F.  it  undergoes  a  remarkable  change,  assuming  a 
yellow  color  and  becoming  readily  soluble  in  water. 
This  substance  is  a  kind  of  gum,  and  has  been  named 
dextrin.  It  is  largely  used  as  a  dilutent  for  other 
gums,  and  in  a  prepared  state  as  a  mucilage  is  sold  as 
British  gum,  Alsace  gum,  and  starch  gum.  It  has 
strong  adhesive  properties. 


ORGANIC    INGREDIENTS    OF    FOOD.  27/ 

REVIEW. 

1.  What  is  an  organic  food  ? 

2.  Give  a  general  classification  of  organic  foods. 

3.  What  are  the  distinguishing  characteristics  of   carbona- 
ceous food  substances  ? 

4.  Name  the  chief  members  of  the  amyloid  group  of    food 
substances. 

5.  Describe  the  microscopic  appearance  of  potato  starch. 

6.  Of  starch  from  other  plants. 

7.  Show  the  abundance  of  starch  in  certain  plants. 

8.  Describe  the  occurrence  of  starch  within  the  plant  cells. 

9.  What  do  you  know  of  the  action  of  cold  and  hot  water  on 
starch  ? 

10.  How  would  you  prepare  starch  from  potatoes  ? 

11.  Name  the  principal  sugars,  giving  the  chief  sources  of 
each. 

12.  Show  the  occurrence  of  sugar  in  plants. 

13.  What  do  you  know  of  saccharose  ? 

14.  Of  glucose  ? 

15.  Of  levulose? 

16.  Describe  briefly  the  processes  of  sugar  refining. 

17.  What  do  you  know  of  vegetable  gums  as  food  articles  ? 

18.  Show  the  occurrence  of  gum  in  plants. 

19.  What  do  you  know  of  dextrin,  its  preparation,  properties, 
and  uses  ? 


278  DOMESTIC    SCIENCE. 


CHAPTER  28. 

CARBONACEOUS    INGREDIENTS    OF    FOOD,    CONTINUED. 
VEGETABLE    ACIDS   AND    FATS. 

In  composition,  the  Vegetable  Acids  are  closely 
allied  to  the  sugars  and  starches  already  considered. 
The  name  vegetable  acids  expresses  at  once  the  nature 
and  occurrence  of  the  substances  ;  they  give  sourness 
to  fruits  and  many  vegetable  products,  though  they 
are  present  in  plants  in  very  small  proportion  only. 
In  food  they  serve  to  impart  a  pleasant,  pungent  taste, 
and  within  the  body,  they  undergo  ultimate  digestion 
as  do  the  starches  and  the  sugars.*  The  chief  of  the 
vegetable  acids  are  citric  acid,  tartaric  acid,  malic  acid, 
and  oxalic  acid. 

Citric  Acid  is  the  sour  principle  of  lemons ;  it 
occurs  also  in  oranges,  citrons,  cranberries,  and  unripe 


*  The  following  appears  (quoted)  in  the  "Scientific  American," 
Aug.  20th,  1892.  "We  know  that  many  vegetable  and  fruit  pro- 
ducts are  esteemed  rather  for  their  pleasant  or  refreshing  taste 
and  for  their  anti -scorbutic  properties,  than  for  any  nutritive 
value  which  they  may  be  assumed  to  possess.  Yet  even  fruits  of 
that  character  are  especially  valuable  as  additions  to  our  daily 
diet,  on  account  of  the  potash  salts  and  mild  vegetable  acids  they 
contribute  to  the  blood.  *  *  *  Many  persons  know  from  exper- 
ience how  much  more  pleasant  and  agreeable  fruit  is  when  gath- 
ered and  eaten  direct  from  the  tree.  This  is  undoubtedly  in  part 
due  to  the  freshness  and  briskness  of  ihe  vegetable  acids  con- 
tained in  the  fruit,  which  when  so  gathered  and  eaten  have  not 
time  to  change  into  any  other  substance.  Stale  fruit,  on  the  other 
hand,  is  unpalatable  from  the  very  fact  that  it  has  lost  this  pun- 
gent and  brisk  taste." 


VEGETABLE    ACIDS    AND    FATS.  279 

tomatoes ;  associated  with  other  acids  it  is  found  in 
strawberries,  raspberries,  currants,  gooseberries,  and 
cherries  ;  and  in  smaller  quantity,  combined  with  lime 
as  calcium  citrate,  it  is  found  in  artichokes,  onions,  and 
beets.  Citric  acid  is  an  ingredient  of  many  common 
sour  and  effervescent  beverages. 

Tartaric  Acid  is  the  prevailing  acid  of  grapes ;  it 
is  found,  too,  in  many  other  fruits  ;  and  in  the  com- 
bined state  as  tartrates  of  potassium  and  calcium,  it  is 
also  found  in  potatoes,  pine  apples,  cucumbers,  and 
in  sumach  berries.  The  chief  source  of  the  acid  is 
argol  or  crude  potassium  tartrate,  which  collects  as 
sediment  in  vats  of  fermenting  grape  juice.  Purified 
potassium  tartrate  is  known  as  cream  of  tartar.  In  a 
pure  state  tartaric  acid  crystallizes  in  clear  large  plates  ; 
it  is  intensely  sour  to  the  taste,  and  is  used  in  pre- 
paring effervescing  drinks.  For  such  purposes,  how- 
ever, it  is  but  an  inferior  substitute  for  citric  acid. 

Malic  Acid  is  the  chief  cause  of  sourness  in 
apples,  pears,  small  fruits,  plums,  peaches,  and  cher- 
ries. It  is  widely  distributed  throughout  the  vegeta- 
ble kingdom,  especially  in  immature  fruits.  In  com- 
bination with  potassium  it  is  abundant  in  the  juices  of 
rhubarb.  The  acid  is  seldom  prepared  in  a  pure  state, 
as  but  little  practical  use  has  been  found  for  it ;  it  may 
however  be  purified  as  a  white  crystalline  solid  very 
readily  soluble  in  water,  the  solution  possessing  an 
intensely  sour  taste. 

Oxalic  Acid  exists  in  sorrel,  rhubarb,  and  many 
other  plants.  It  is  usually  found  in  combination  with 
calcium  and  potassium   as  oxalates   of  those  metals. 


280  DOMESTIC    SCIENCE. 

Potassium  oxalate  has  long  been  sold  as  "salts  of 
sorrel,"  and  has  found  domestic  application  as  a  means 
of  removing  ink  stains  and  iron -mold  spots  from 
clothes.  Purified  oxalic  acid  appears  as  transparent 
crystals  ;  it  is  intensely  poisonous,  and  many  fatalities 
have  resulted  from  its  use.  It  has  many  times  been 
mistaken  for  Epsom  salts,  which  indeed  it  greatly  re- 
sembles in  outward  appearance. 

Pectin  or  Vegetable  Jelly  is  very  closely  akin  to 
the  vegetable  acids  just  considered.  This  is  largely 
prepared  from  fruits  by  heating  them,  with  water, 
sweetening  and  straining.  The  solution  becomes  a 
jelly  in  cooling.  The  acids  present  in  jelly  so  pre- 
pared are  known  as  pectic  and  pectosic  acids. 
These  by  long  continued  heating  become  trans- 
formed into  metapectic  acid  which  is  so  readily 
soluble  that  a  solution  containing  it  no  longer  solidifies 
on  cooling.  This  is  well  known  to  housewives  who 
have  tried  to  concentrate  a  fruit  jelly  by  long  contin- 
ued heating ;  usually  a  syrupy  liquid  only  is  obtained. 
It  is  a  general  belief  that  sugar  is  essential  to  the  pro- 
duction of  a  jelly  from  vegetable  juices ;  the  sugar, 
beside  its  sweetening  effect,  absorbs  the  excess  of 
water  present,  and  leaves  the  pectic  and  pectosic  acids 
free  to  soldify  by  cooling. 

Acetic  Acid  is  of  vegetable  origin,  though  not  oc- 
curring free  in  Nature ;  it  is  the  sour  substance  in 
vinegar.  This  will  receive  brief  attention  in  the 
chapter  on  "Auxiliary  foods." 

Vegetable  Acids  Transformable  into  Amy- 
loids.— It  has  already  been  stated  that  the  vegetable 


VEGETABLE    ACIDS    AND    FATS.  281 

acids  are  allied  in  chemical  nature  to  the  amyloids 
already  described.  Examples  of  the  transformation  of 
acids  into  starch  and  sugar  are  common  in  Nature. 
•Thus,  in  the  green  state,  apples  are  intensely  sour ;  as 
the  ripening  process  proceeds,  however,  the  sourness 
is  less  marked,  and  a  chemical  examination  shows  an 
increase  in  sugar,  and  a  corresponding  diminution  of 
malic  acid  and  starch. 

FatS  and  Oils  constitute  the  next  group  of  car- 
bonaceous food  elements.  These  substances  consist  of 
carbon,  hydrogen,  and  oxygen,  the  last  named  element 
however,  being  present  in  very  small  proportion  only. 
The  fats  are  therefore  spoken  of  as  hydro -carbons. 
Some  fats  both  of  animal  and  of  vegetable  origin,  are 
characterized  by  containing  a  small  amount  of  phos- 
phorus ;  these  are  known  as  phosphorized  fats.  The 
oil  from  peas  contains  1.17  per  cent,  phosphorus; 
bean  oil  .72  per  cent.  ;  vetch  oil  .5- per  cent.  ;  barley 
oil  .28  ;   rye  oil  .31  ;   oat  oil   .44.* 

Relation  between  Fats  and  Oils.— There  ap- 
pears no  essential  difference  of  composition  between 
the  solid  fats,  and  the  liquid  oils,  the  consistency 
depending  greatly  upon  the  temperature.  Tallow 
may  be  reduced  by  warming  to  a  mobile  liquid  ;  and 
olive  oil  may  be  solidified  by  cold.  In  Africa,  the 
fat  of  the  palm  tree  is  in  the  state  of  liquid  palm-oil ; 
with  us  the  same  substance  is  semi-solid  and  is  known 
as  palm-butter. 

Oils,   Fixed   and   Essential. — Of  common  oils 


♦These  figures  are  given  on  the  strength  of  Toepler's  experi- 
ments. 


282 


DOMESTIC    SCIENCE. 


there  are  two  main  groups,  the  fixed  oils,  and  the 
volatile  or  essential  oils.  The  former  are  the  more 
important  as  food  elements  ;  they  may  be  recognized 
by  their  power  of  producing  permanent  grease  stains 
when  placed  upon  paper ;  even  gentle  warming  fails 
to  remove  such  spots.  A  volatile  oil  if  smeared  on 
paper,  produces  but  temporary  stains  :  these  entirely 
disappear  by  heating.  Some  volatile  oils  do  slight 
service  as  auxilliary  foods ;  but  for  the  present  we 
confine  ourselves  to  a  consideration  of  fixed  oils  and 
fats  only  as  they  constitute  our  main  source  of  this 
class  of  foods. 

Vegetable  Fats  are  largely  obtained  from  seeds ; 
good  examples  are  furnished  by  the  oily  seeds  of  flax, 
colza,  cotton,  peanut,  butternut,  and  sunflower.  The 
following  specification  shows  the  amount  of  oil  present 
in  certain  vegetable  products 


Meadow  grass 
Meadow  hay- 
Clover  hay 
Wheat  bran 
Wheat  kernel 
Wheat  flour 
Maize  kernel 
Pea 
Rice 

Buckwheat 
Olives 
Cotton  seed 
Flax  seed 
Colza  seed 
Cocoanuts 
Filberts 


Per  cent,  of  oil. 

0.8 

3.0 

3.2 

1.5 

1.6 

1.5 

8.0 

3.0 

0.8 

0.4 
32.0 
34.0 
34.0 
45.0 
47.0 
60.0 


There  is  a  strong  prejudice,  none  the  better  because 
popular,  against  the  use  of    vegetable    oils   in  food. 


VEGETABLE    ACIDS    AND    FATS.  283 

As  a  rule  we  prefer  the  poorest  of  lard,  to  the  purest 
oils  of  olive  and  palm  ;  yet  as  cooking  media  the  plant 
oils  are  in  all  respects  superior.  Cotton -seed  oil  has 
been  proved  to  be  nutritious  and  wholesome ;  it  has 
lately  found  extensive  use  in  the  preserving  of  fish, 
and  cotton  planters  now  find  the  seed  of  their  crop 
almost  as  valuable  as  the  fibre.  True,  the  price  of 
refined  vegetable  oil  is  at  present  high  when  compared 
with  the  cost  of  animal  fats  ;  the  crude  oil,  however, 
is  far  cheaper  than  the  unrefined  animal  product,  and 
as  soon  as  a  demand  arises  for  pure  vegetable  oils, 
there  will  be  no  lack  of  supply  at  a  cheap  rate. 

Animal    FatS. — Fat   is    also    present   in   common 
articles  of  animal  food,  as  these  figures  will  show : 


Per  cent  of  fat. 

Cows'  milk 

- 

3.13 

Goats'      "     - 

3.32 

Ordinary  meat    - 

- 

14.03 

Liver  of  ox 

- 

3.89 

Yolk  of  eggs 

- 

28.75 

Common  FatS. — The  principal  common  fats  are 
enumerated  and  briefly  described  below  : 

Olein  is  abundant  in  ordinary  oils  ;  being  the  most 
fluid  of  common  fats,  it  may  be  prepared  in  quantity 
from  oils  and  the  softer  fats. 

Palmitin  is  plentiful  in  African  palm  oil ;  it  occurs 
also  in  beeswax  and  tallow.  It  is  fluid  only  during 
warm  weather,  or  under  the  influence  of  artificial 
heat. 

Stearine  may  be  prepared  from  tallow.     It  is  pres- 


284  DOMESTIC    SCIENCE. 

ent  in  all  common  fats,    and  being   solid  at  ordinary 
temperatures  imparts  solidity  to  other  fats. 

Some  Properties  Of  FatS. — Fatty  substances  are 
generally  insoluble  in  water  ;  yet  under  certain  condi- 
tions, oils  may  be  suspended  in  water  in  a  very  finely 
divided  state;  such  a  mixture  is  known  as  an  emul- 
sion. A  little  oil  shaken  up  in  water  to  which  a 
minute  quantity  of  soda  had  been  added,  will  exem- 
plify an  emulsion.  The  microscope  shows  in  such  a 
mixture  the  oil  drops  still  separate  and  perfect.  Milk 
is  an  example  of  a  natural  emulsion.  A  farther  char- 
acteristic of  all  fats  is  their  property  of  forming  soaps 
with  the  alkalies. 

Fats  constitute  a  very  important  part  of  food  mate- 
rial. When  eaten,  fatty  matters  develop  great  bodily 
warmth,  they  are  therefore  well  adapted  as  a  diet  for 
cold  climes.  Under  the  influence  of  severe  cold,  a 
strong,  natural  craving  for  fat  is  developed.  Seamen, 
wintering  In  Arctic  regions,  eat  fats  with  relish.  The 
Esquimaux  in  their  wintry  home  devour  immense 
quantities  of  oleaginous  matter.* 


*Dr.  Hutchinson  says,  "The  Esquimau  consumes  daily  from 
ten  to  fifteen  pounds  of  meat  or  blubber,  a  large  proportion  of 
which  is  fat.  The  Laplander  will  drink  train  oil,  and  regards  tal- 
low candles  as  a  great  luxury." 

The  need  of  fat  in  the  food  of  children  is  very  great.-  Dr. 
Edward  Smith  says  on  this  subject,  "  Children  who  dislike  fat 
cause  much  anxiety  to  parents,  for  they  are  almost  always  thin, 
and  if  not  diseased,  are  not  healthy.  If  care  be  not  taken  they 
fall  into  a  scrofulous  condition,  in  which  diseased  joints,  enlarged 
glands,  sore  eyes,  and  even  consumption  occur;  and  every  effort 
should  be  made  to  overcome  this  dislike.  If  attention  be  given  to 
this  matter  of  diet,  there  need  be  no  anxiety  about  the  possibility 
of  increasing  the  quantity  of  food  consumed;  whilst  by  neglect, 


VEGETABLE    ACIDS    AND    FATS.  285 

REVIEW. 

1.  Name  the  principal  vegetable  acids  occurring  in  food  stuffs. 

2.  State  what  you  know  of  citric  acid. 

3.  Of  tartaric  acid. 

4.  Of  malic  acid. 

5.  Of  oxalic  acid. 

6.  Describe  the  occurrence  and  properties  of  pectin. 

7.  Why  is  it  that  a  fruit  jelly  by  continued  heating  becomes 
permanently  liquid? 

8.  What  is  the  general  composition  of  fats  ? 

9.  With  what  classes  of  oils  are  you  acquainted  ? 

10.  How  may  we  distinguish  between  fixed  oils  and  volatile 
oils? 

11.  Show  the  occurrence  of  fats  and  oils  in  plants. 

12.  Name  some  of  the  principal  vegetable  oils. 

13.  What  do  you  know  of  olein,  palmitin,  stearin  ? 

14.  What  is  an  emulsion  ? 

15.  Show  the  value  of  fats  as  food. 

the  dislike  will  probabJy  increase  until  disease  is  produced.  The 
chief  period  of  growth,  viz. — from  seven  to  sixteen  years  of  age — 
is  the  most  important  in  this  respect,  for  a  store  of  fat  in  the  body- 
is  then  essential.  Those  who  are  inclined  to  be  fat,  usually  like 
fat  in  food,  and  then  it  may  be  desirable  to  limit  its  use.  Some 
who  cannot  eat  it  when  hot  like  it  when  cold,  and  all  should  select 
that  kind  which  they  prefer." 


286  DOMESTIC    SCIENCE. 


CHAPTEE  29. 

NITROGENOUS    INGREDIENTS    OF    FOOD. 

Nitrogenous  Food  Necessary. — Nitrogen  is  an 

essential  constituent  of  most  tissues  of  the  human 
body  ;  there  is  need,  therefore,  of  nitrogenous  food  to 
nourish  the  parts.  The  importance  of  foods  of  this 
nature  is  so  great  that  they  have  been  called  flesh 
formers.  We  must  not  be  led  by  this  appellation  to 
the  extreme  belief  that  no  food  material  devoid  of 
nitrogen  is  of  value ;  starches  and  sugars,  gums  and 
fats,  are  of  indispensable  service  in  sustaining  bodily 
heat,  and  they  serve  also  as  sources  of  actual  energy, 
which  manifests  itself  as  muscular  force.  It  is  a  plain 
fact  nevertheless,  that  non- nitrogenous  matter  can  but 
imperfectly  build  up  tissues  of  which  nitrogen  forms 
an  important  constituent. 

From  the  general  resemblance  of  all  nitrogenous 
food  compounds  to  albumen,  the  first  and  commonest 
of  the  group,  they  are  often  called  albuminoids,  some- 
times also  proteids :  this  last  name  is  derived  from  the 
Greek  and  signifies  "first"  or  "most  important," 
having  reference  here  to  the  imperative  need  of  nitro- 
genous substances  within  the  body.  The  albuminoids 
are  composed  of  nitrogen,  carbon,  hydrogen  and  oxy- 
gen ;  many  of  them  contain  also  a  small  proportion 
of   sulphur. 

Albumen  may  properly   be   studied  as   the   first  of 


NITROGENOUS    INGREDIENTS    OP    FOOD.  287 

the  group  ;  it  is  found  in  an  almost  pure  condition, 
except  for  an  admixture  with  water,  in  the  white  of 
egg.  The  word  "albumen"  is  of  Latin  derivation, 
from  albus,  meaning  white,  and  is  so  applied  because 
of  the  white  color  assumed  by  the  substance  when 
heated.  A  careful  study  of  the  properties  of  albumen 
is  essential  to  an  understanding  of  many  operations  in 
cooking.  Procure  a  fresh  egg,  separate  the  yolk  from 
the  white,  and  place  the  latter  in  a  glass  test  tube,  in- 
sert a  thermometer,  and  immerse  the  lower  part  of  the 
tube  in  water  which  is  being  gradually  heated.  As 
the  temperature  within  the  tube  ranges  from  130°  to 
140°  F.,  white,  opaque  fibers  appear  in  the  substance; 
these  increase  till  the  whole  mass  of  albumen  has  been 
converted  into  a  white,  semi-solid  coagulum.  This 
change  will  be  complete  when  the  temperature  has 
risen  to  170°  F.,  and  any  greater  heat  will  harden  the 
egg  substance,  and  if  long  continued  will  convert  it 
into  a  tough,  apparently  indigestible  mass.  It  is  plain 
then  that  a  temperature  of  170°  F.  is  sufficient  to 
properly  coagulate  the  albumen. 

In  the  liquid  condition,  albumen  is  soluble  in  water  ; 
after  coagulation,  however,  it  is  almost  entirely  insol- 
uble. As  an  illustration  of  this,  the  white  of  egg  may 
be  shaken  or  stirred  in  cold  water,  and  completely 
dissolved  therein ;  on  heating  the  liquid  to  the  proper 
temperature  the  albumen  will  appear  in  the  solid  form 
as  flakes.  Albumen  as  a  food  is  mainly  derived 
from  the  animal  kingdom,  though  the  substance 
exists  in  the  juices  of  plants,  and  in  many  seeds  and 
grains. 


288  DOMESTIC     SCIENCE. 

Fibrin,  another  albuminoid,  is  present  in  consider- 
able quantity  in  many  animal  fluids.  The  clotting  of 
blood  is  due  to  the  spontaneous  coagulation  of  the 
contained  fibrin.  To  procure  fibrin  for  examination, 
place  a  quantity  of  fresh  blood  in  an  open  vessel,  agi- 
tate or  whip  the  liquid  with  a  wisp  of  fine  twigs  or 
wires  ;  the  fibrin  will  gather  upon   the  bundle  in  the 


Fig.  92. 
Fibers  of  lean  meat. 


form  of  stringy,  semi- liquid  masses.     Blood  so  defib- 
rinated  has  lost  its  power  of  clotting.*     The  separated 


*  Exposure  to  the  air  induces  the  clotting  of  blood.  This  change 
is  caused  by  the  hardening  of  the  fibrin — a  constituent  of  the 
plasma— by  which  the  blood  corpuscles  are  entangled  so  as  to 
form  a  plug  or  clot.  A  yellowish  liquid  separates  as  the  clot 
forms:  this  is  known  as  blood-serum.  The  benefits  resulting 
from  this  property  of  blood  can  scarcely  be  over-estimated.  In 
the  case  of  a  severed  vein  or  artery,  the  flow  is  checked  by  clot- 
ting, while  the  healing  of  the  vessel  is  in  progress.  Did  this 
property  not  exist  in  the  blood,  bleeding  could  be  stopped  only 
by  artificial  means.  Among  birds  the  clotting  of  blood  is  espec- 
ially rapid.  This  feature  is  a  great  benefit  to  these  winged  crea- 
tures, for  the  great  muscular  exertion  of  flying  would  cause  pro- 
fuse bleeding  from  very  small  wounds,  were  it  not  for  the  stop- 
ping of  the  injured  vessels  by  the  blood  clots.  In  this  we  see 
divine  provision  even  for  the  accidents  to  which  animals  and  men 
are  subject. 


NITROGENOUS    INGREDIENTS    OF    FOOD.  289 

fibrin  may  be  washed  and  purified ;  then  it  appears  of 
a  yellowish  color,  and  is  soluble  in  hot  water. 

Take  now  a  bit  of  raw  lean  meat,  thoroughly  wash 
it  in  water ;  the  liquid  becomes  colored  from  the  red 
juices  taken  from  the  meat,  and  that  which  remains  is 
of  a  purplish  tint  and  of  a  fibrous  structure.  These 
fibers  consist  mainly  of  animal  fibrin,  though  the  dis- 
tinguishing name  of  myosin  has  been  applied  to  such. 
Figure  92  is  a  sketch  of  the  magnified  fibers  of  lean 
meat. 

Fibrin  is  also  present  in  certain  plants,  especially  in 
juices.  If  turnip  juice  be  exposed  to  the  air,  after  a 
short  time  it  deposits  solid  flakes  of  coagulated  fibrin. 
For  purposes  of  distinction  this  has  been  named  vege- 
table fibrin. 

Gelatin  is  a  very  important  member  of  the  albu- 
minoid family  of  foods.  It  is  present  in  most  of  the 
tissues  of  the  animal  body,  including  bones  and  carti- 
lage. In  a  purified  form  gelatin  is  insoluble  in  cold 
water,  though  it  dissolves  readily  in  hot  water,  and 
the  solution  on  cooling  assumes  the  condition  of  a 
jelly.  Gelatin  is  the  chief  ingredient  of  all  animal 
jellies.  One  ounce  of  pure  gelatin  is  capable  of  com- 
bining with  one  and  a  half  pounds  of  water  to  form 
jelly.  The  purest  commercial  form  of  gelatin  is  isin- 
glass, which  is  a  preparation  from  the  swimming  blad- 
ders of  fishes.  Specimens  of  gelatin  from  different 
sources  possess  widely  varying  degrees  of  solubility. 
Calves'  foot  jelly  is  a  delicious  food  ;  jelly  made  from 
the  feet  of  cows  is  less  prized  because  of  its  inferior 
solubility.     The  turtle's  body  is   rich  in  gelatin,  and 


290  DOMESTIC    SCIENCE. 

as  a  consequence  it  is  in  great  favor  as  a  prime  ingre- 
dient of  soup  ;  a  somewhat  inferior  and  much  less 
expensive  luxury  is  mock  turtle  soup,  which  contains 
gelatin  from  pigs'  feet,  calves'  heads,  and  the  like. 

The  material  of  which  the  edible  birds'1  nests  are 
composed  is  a  kind  of  gelatin.  These  nests  are  con- 
structed by  a  species  of  swift*  inhabiting  the  coasts  of 
China,  Sumatra,  and  Java.  The  birds  produce  large 
quantities  of  slimy  saliva,  which,  on  drying,  becomes 
solid  and  transparent  gelatin  ;  it  is  readily  soluble  in 
hot  water,  the  solution  constituting  the  much-prized 
jelly. 

The  Value  of  Gelatin  as  Food  has  been  made  the 

subject  of  special  inquiry  by  certain  members  of  the 
French  Academy,  as  already  stated  (page  258).  M. 
Edwards,  one  of  the  experimenters,  draws  the  follow- 
ing conclusions  from  his  observations  and  tests. f 

"1.  That  gelatin  alone  is  insufficient  for  alimenta- 
tion. 2.  That  although  insufficient,  it  is  not  un- 
wholesome.     3.     That  gelatin  contributes  to  alimenta- 

*This  variety  of  swift,  the  "esculent  swallow"  as  it  is  commonly 
failed,  delights  to  build  in  caves;  and  it  is  stated  that  a  single 
cavern  in  Java,  to  which  the  birds  have  taken  a  decided  liking 
as  a  place  of  abode,  brings  its  proprietor  an  income  of  $25,000  a 
year  rental,  the  sole  value  of  the  place  depending  upon  the  nests 
therein  constructed.  This  cave  the  swifts  share  good  naturedly 
with  the  bats,  the  latter  holding  possession  during  the  day,  and 
the  birds  occupying  the  lodgings  at  night.  In  shape  the  nests 
resemble  hanging  bags  or  pouches,  and  they  are  held  firmly 
against  the  wall  through  the  adhesive  properties  of  the  salivary 
mucus.  Birds'  nest  soup  ranks  among  the  costliest  of  table  deli- 
cacies of  its  class;  the  clean,  dry  nests  sell  in  the  market  for  their 
own  weight  in  silver. 

fThe  English  construction  is  the  translation  of  Mr.  Mattieu 
Williams. 


NITROGENOUS    INGREDIENTS    OF    FOOD.  291 

tion,  and  is  sufficient  to  sustain  it  when  it  is  mixed 
with  a  due  proportion  of  other  products  which  would 
themselves  prove  insufficient  if  given  alone.  4.  That 
gelatin  extracted  from  bones,  being  identical  with  that 
extracted  from  other  parts,  and  bones  being  richer  in 
gelatin  than  other  tissues,  and  able  to  afford  two- 
thirds  of  their  weight  of  it,  there  is  an  incontestible 
advantage  in  making  them  serve  for  nutrition  in  the 
form  of  soup,  jellies,  paste,  etc.  ;  always,  however, 
taking  care  to  provide  a  proper  admixture  of  the  other 
principles  in  which  the  gelatin  soup  is  defective. 
5.  That  to  render  gelatin  soup  equal  in  nutritive  and 
digestible  qualities  to  that  prepared  from  meat  alone, 
it  is  sufficient  to  mix  one-fourth  of  meat  soup  with 
three-fourths  of  gelatin  soup;  and  that,  in  fact,  no 
difference  is  perceptible  between  soup  thus  prepared 
and  that  made  solely  from  meat."  We  are  then  to 
regard  gelatin  as  a  very  efficient  food  when  properly 
flavored  by  admixture  with  other  substances ;  alone  it 
is  repulsive  to  the  system.  Gelatin  is  furnished  by  the 
animal  kingdom  only. 

Casein  is  the  chief  albuminoid  of  milk,  in  which  it 
exists  to  the  extent  of  from  three  to  six  per  cent.,  and 
constitutes  the  greater  part  of  the  curd  of  milk.  In 
fresh  milk  the  casein  is  held  in  solution;  by  coagula- 
tion, however,  as  in  cheese  making,  the  substance  is 
rendered  almost  entirely  insoluble  in  water.  The  co- 
agulation of  casein  in  milk  may  be  effected  by  adding 
a  small  quantity  of  acid ;  though  the  change  is  best 
brought  about  by  the  addition  of  rennet,  which  is  an 
infusion  of    the   mucous  lining   of    a  calf's  stomach. 


292  DOMESTIC    SCIENCE. 

Unlike  albumen,  casein  is  not  coagulable  by  heat.  A 
common  example  of  casein  solidifying  in  the  presence 
of  an  acid  is  seen  in  the  spontaneous  souring  of  milk ; 
under  particular  circumstances  the  sugar  in  the  milk 
is  decomposed,  lactic  acid  being  formed  in  the  process  ; 
this  acid  causes  a  speedy  precipitation  of  the  casein  as 
a  voluminous  curd.  When  milk  is  curdled  through 
the  addition  of  rennet,  the  casein  carries  with  it  from 
solution  many  of  the  mineral  salts,  notably  the  phos- 
phates, which  were  originally  present  in  the  milk  ;  pre- 
cipitation by  acid,  however,  removes  these  substances 
from  the  curd,  and  they  are  lost  in  the  whey.  Cheese 
formed  by  the  first  method  therefore  is  superior  to  that 
made  by  the  addition  of  acid. 

When  separated  from  the  other  ingredients  of  milk 
and  purified,  casein  appears  as  a  yellowish,  translucent 
solid,  not  unlike  horn  ;  in  water  this  is  ordinarily  in- 
soluble, but  in  weak  alkaline  solutions  it  readily  dis- 
solves. These  facts  will  be  of  service  to  us  in  our 
subsequent  examination  of  cheese  as  food. 

Casein  is  found  in  small  quantities  in  certain  vege- 
tables, especially  in  the  leguminosse — a  family  of  plants 
including  peas  and  beans.  If  such  seeds  be  finely 
ground  and  then  treated  with  water,  the  casein  passes 
into  solution,  and  may  be  precipitated  as  a  coagulum 
by  the  addition  of  acid.  Dried  peas  and  beans  will 
yield  20  per  cent,  of  their  weight  of  vegetable  casein. 
The  Chinese  manufacture  from  peas  a  good  article  of 
vegetable  cheese,  which  is  almost  indistinguishable  by 
chemical  means  from  milk  cheese. 

Gluten  is   a  tough,    elastic   substance,!  present   in 


NITROGENOUS    INGREDIENTS    OF    FOOD.  293 

flour,  and  imparting  to  dough  its  property  of  sticki- 
ness. It  may  be  prepared  by  kneading  flour  with 
water  on  a  fine  sieve,  after  the  manner  indicated  by 
figure  93.  The  liquid  soon  becomes  milky  from  the 
starch  granules  washed  from  the  dough ;  the  gluey 
mass  remaining  is  a  mixture  of  substances,  containing 
considerable  quantities  of  vegetable  fibrin  and  of  veg- 
etable casein,  and  about  20  per  cent,  of  pure  gluten. 
In  a  dried  state,  gluten  is  a  horn-like,  semi-trans- 
parent solid,  insoluble  in 
cold  water  ;  slowly  and  but 
feebly  soluble  in  hot  wat- 
er ;  readily  soluble  in  acetic 
acid  (strong  vinegar)  and 
in  dilute  alkalies. 

Properties  of  the  Al- 
buminoids.—Before  leav- 
ing the  albuminoids  it  will 
„.     no  be   well   to   consider   some 

Fig.  93. 

Separating  the  gluten  of  flour,  characteristics  of  the  group. 
As  already  stated,  they  all  contain  a  considerable 
quantity  of  nitrogen.  Then  further,  they  all  possess 
the  peculiar  property  of  coagulation,  though  under 
different  conditions;  thus,  heat  coagulates  albumen, 
acid  or  rennet  is  needed  to  curdle  casein  ;  blood  fibrin 
coagulates  spontaneously.  All  albuminoids  are  readily 
decomposable  by  heat,  with  evolution  of  an  odor  like 
that  of  burning  horn.  Under  influences  of  moisture 
and  warmth,  albuminoids  undergo  a  destructive 
change,  known  as  putrefaction,  in  which  process  the 
albuminoid    matter    becomes    partially    liquified,  -and 


294  DOMESTIC    SCIENCE. 

gives  off  certain  gases  of  disgusting  odor.  Albumi- 
nous matters  have  the  power  of  acting  as  chemical 
ferments,  so  that  if  a  small  quantity  of  such  in  a  de- 
composing state  be  placed  with  fresh  material  of  the 
same  kind,  putrefactive  changes  are  speedily  excited 
throughout  the  whole  mass.  A  bit  of  sour  gluten  in- 
troduced to  dough  soon  "leavens  the  whole." 


REVIEW. 

1.  What  are  albuminoids  or  proteids  ? 

2.  Define  "albumen." 

3.  From  what  source  would  you  procure  albumen  for  study  ? 

4.  Explain  the  effect  of  heat  on  albumen. 

5.  What  do  you  know  of  the  temperature  at  which  albumen 
coagulates  and  hardens  ? 

6.  State  what  you  know  of  fibrin. 

7.  How  would  you  obtain  fibrin  for  study  ? 

8.  Explain  the  clotting  of  blood, 

9.  Show  the  great  advantages  to  human  and  animal  life  re- 
sulting from  the  clotting  of  blood. 

10.  What  is  gelatin  ? 

11.  What  do  you  know  about  edible  birds'  nests  ? 

12.  What  is  your  opinion  of  the  value  of  casein  as  an  article 
of  food  ? 

13.  Why  is  gelatine  alone  poorly  adapted  for  food  ? 

14.  What  is  the  prominent  albuminoid  in  milk  ? 

15.  How  may  casein  be  separated  from  the  other  ingredients 
of  milk? 

16.  Explain  the  souring  of  milk. 

17.  Why  does  milk  curdle  as  it  becomes  sour  ? 

18.  What  is  rennet? 

19.  Why  is  cheese  made  by  the  use  of  rennet  superior  to  cheese 
make  by  the  use  of  acid? 

20.  What  do  you  know  of  vegetable  casein? 

21.  Describe  the  principal  properties  of  gluten. 

22.  How  would  you  prepare  gluten  for  study? 

23.  State  the  principal  characteristics  of  the  albuminoid  group 
of  foods. 


VEGETABLE    FOODS    AND    THEIR    COOKERY.  295 


CHAPTER    30. 

VEGETABLE    FOODS    AND    THEIR    COOKERY. 

Having  considered  the  chief  ingredients  of  ordinary 
foods,  it  will  be  profitable  now  to  devote  some 
attention  to  the  food  stuffs  that  supply  these  sub- 
stances. All  of  our  common  food  materials  are  mix- 
tures of  several  of  the  alimentary  substances  already 
referred  to ;  it  is  common,  therefore,  to  speak  of 
ordinary  foods  as  "  compound  aliments."  Let  us  first 
consider  the  chief  foods  derived  from  the  vegetable 
kingdom. 

1.— TUBERS,  BULBS,  AND  ROOTS. 

Potatoes  cannot  properly  be  classed  as  roots;  they 
have  buds,  (eyes),  and  rudimentary  leaves  (the  little 
scales  behind  the  buds),  which  no  true  roots  possess; 
they  are  to  be  regarded  as  enlarged  underground 
stems,  to  which  the  common  name  tubers  has  been  ap- 
plied. Potatoes  are  very  extensively  used  as  articles  of 
food,  though  in  chemical  composition  they  are  deficient 
in  nutritive  matters.  On  the  average,  potatoes  contain 
from  76  to  80  per  cent,  of  water;  and  of  the  remain- 
ing 20  or  24  per  cent,  dried  matter,  but  a  very  small 
proportion  is  nitrogenous.  In  this  respect  the  potato 
is  even  inferior  to  rice,  which  has  long  been  regarded 
as  one  of  the  least  nitrogenous  of  ordinary  foods.  Prof. 
Johnston's  analysis  show  the  following  relative  com- 


296  DOMESTIC    SCIENCE. 

position  of    potatoes   and   rice,  only   the    dried   sub- 
stances being  considered  in  either  case  : 


Potato 

Rice 

Gluten 

per  cen  . 
5 

per  cent. 
9 

Starch,  sugar  and  gum 

Fat        - 

81 
1 

89 
0.5 

Mineral  salts 

4 

0.5 

According  to  Smith,  2.5  pounds  of  potatoes  are 
required  to  furnish  the  amount  of  carbon  ordinarily 
contained  in  one  pound  of  bread;  and  3.3  pounds  of 
potatoes  contain  no  more  nitrogen  than  is  contained  in 
a  pound  of  bread.  AVilliams  states  that  a  pound  of 
oatmeal  is  worth  6  pounds  of  potatoes,  as  regards  the 
contained  nitrogenous  matter.*  A  potato  diet  is  at 
best  a  very  poor  one,  and  a  person  subjected  to  it  has 
to  devour  immense  quantities  of  the  vegetable  to 
obtain  the  nutriment  requisite  for  the  support  of  the 
body.     However,  potatoes  serve  an  admirable  purpose 


*"  My  own  observations  in  Ireland  have  convinced  me  of  the 
wisdom  of  William  Corbett's  denunciation  of  the  potato  as  a 
staple  article  of  food.  The  bulk  that  has  to  be  eaten,  and  is 
eaten,  in  order  to  sustain  life,  converts  the  potato  eater  into  a 
mere  assimilating  machine  during  a  large  part  of  the  day,  and 
renders  him  unfit  for  any  kind  of  mental  or    bodily  exertion. 

.  The  effect  of  potato  feeding  may  be  studied  by  watching  the 

worK  of  a  potato-fed  Irish  mower  or  reaper,  who  comes  across  to 
work  upon  an  English  farm  where  the  harvesters  are  fed  in  the 
farm  house,  and  the  supply  of  beer  is  not  excessive.  The  im- 
provement of  his  working  power  after  two  or  three  weeks  of 
English  feeding  is  comparable  to  that  of  a  horse  when  fed  upon 
corn,  beans  and  hay,  after  feeding  for  a  year  on  grass  only.  My 
strictures  on  the  potato  do  not  apply  to  them  as  used  in  England; 
where  the  prevailing  vice  of  our  ordinary  diet  is  that  it  is  too 
carnivorous.  The  potatoes  we  eat  with  our  meat  serve  to  dilute 
it,  and  supply  the  farinaceous  element  in  which  flesh  is  defi- 
cient."—W.  Mattieu  Williams. 


VEGETABLE    FOODS    AND    THEIR    COOKEKY.  29  7 

in  diluting  the  fare  of  persons  who  are  prone  to  ex- 
cess in  the  use  of  over- stimulating  and  extra-nourish- 
ing food.  The  mineral  substance  or  ash  of  potato 
tubers  is  very  rich  in  potash,  and  contains  a  consider- 
able proportion  of  other  mineral  compounds  so 
essential  in  foods ;  but  much  of  this  valuable  material 
is  removed  by  the  ordinary  methods  of  cooking. 

Cooking'  Of  Potatoes. — The  practice  of  peeling 
potatoes,  and  then  immersing  them  in  svater,  results 
in  the  washing  away  of  many  of  their  mineral  salts. 
A  potato  contains  within  itself  sufficient  water  for  its 
perfect  cookery  ;  and  here  we  must  pause  long  enough 
to  inform  ourselves  of  the  chief  differences  between 
raw  and  cooked  potatoes.  Figure  91  upper  left  hand 
sketch,  represents  an  enlarged  view  of  a  thin  slice  of 
potato  tuber,  showing  the  cells  with  their  contents  of 
starch  granules ;  and  figure  89  shows  the  starch 
particles  separated  and  more  highly  magnified. 

It  will  be  remembered  as  a  property  of  starch  that 
the  substance  is  insoluble  in  cold  water ;  but  that 
it  may  be  made  to  absorb  a 
considerable  amount  of  hot 
water.  In  cooking  a  potato, 
its  starch  granules  absorb  water 
and  burst;  a  single  grain  pre- 
senting some  such  an  appearance 
Fig.  94.  as  is  shown  in  figure  94.      As  a 

Bursting  starch  granule.  reSult  of  heating  prepared  starch 
in  water,  a  gelatinous  mixture  is  produced ;  this 
condition  is  prevented  in  the  case  of  the  potato  ;  be- 
cause the  starch  grains  within  the  tuber  are  protected 


298  DOMESTIC    SCIENCE. 

by  stout  cell  walls,  and  the  albumen  of  the  potato 
coagulates  through  the  heating  process  and  thus  still 
further  protects  the  starch.  The  starch  of  mature 
potatoes,  when  heated,  absorbs  nearly  all  their  con- 
tained water,  and  thus  the  tubers  become  dry  and 
mealy:  young  potatoes,  when  heated,  and  indeed  all 
kinds  if  cooked  in  a  superabundance  of  water,  be- 
come waxy,  because  a  considerable  amount  of  water 
remains  imabsorbed.  From  the  standpoint  of  economy 
and  wholesomeness,  the  best  methods  of  cooking  pota- 
toes are  roasting  and  steaming  ;  by  either  process  the 
contained  juices  are  raised  to  the  cooking  temperature, 
and  are  absorbed  by  the  swelling  starch  particles.  If 
"  boiled  "*  at  all,  the  least  injurious  way  is  to  cook 
them  with  their  skins  still  in  place,  leaving  the  peeling 
for  a  subsequent  operation.  In  some  parts  of  Ireland, 
the  people  depend  largely  upon  potatoes  for  their  sup- 
port, and  among  them,  experience  has  taught  the 
ruinous  waste  of  peeling  potatoes  before  cooking. 

Onions  are  thickened  parts  of  the  stems  of  plant, 
and  are  botanically  called  bulbs.  The  onion  is  rich  in 
nitrogenous  matter,  and  is  correspondingly  nutritious. 
Its   strong  odor  is   due  to  the  presence   of  a  peculiar 

*  It  is  a  common  but  still  a  grossly  improper  practice  to  speak 
of  things  that  have  been  kept  for  a  time  in  boiling  water,  as  being 
boiled.  Only  liquids  can  boil,  and  in  boiling  they  are  converted 
into  vapor;  thus  water  boils  to  steam;  alcohol  in  boiling  produces 
alcohol  vapor;  iron  may  be  boiled,  but  it  must  first  be  melted  to 
the  liquid  state,  then,  if  sufficiently  heated,  the  molten  metal  may 
be  converted  into  vapor  of  iron.  Potatoes  cooked  in  water  are 
not  boiled,  any  more  than  is  the  iron  of  the  cooking  vessel 
•'  boiled."  The  water  boils,  however,  and  the  effect  of  the  boiling 
temperature  is  to  produce  within  the  potato  the  desired  changes 
of  cookery. 


VEGETABLE    FOODS    AND    THEIR    COOKERY.  299 

sulphurized  oil,  commonly  knowu  as  garlic  oil.  In 
Spain  and  Portugal,  onions  are  used  as  staple  articles 
of  diet.  As  a  result  of  chemical  analysis,  Johnston 
states  that  the  onion  contains  from  25  to  30  per  cent, 
of  gluten.*  Onions  possess  valuable  medicinal  prop- 
erties, and  the  moderate  use  of  the  bulbs,  either  cooked 
or  raw,  is  generally  beneficial.  On  most  people  the 
physiological  effect  of  onions  is  of  a  soothing  kind, 
and  in  many  instances  the  effects  are  decidedly  sopor- 
ific. 

Turnips,  Carrots,  Parsnips,  and  Beets  are  true 

roots.  They  are  rich  accumulations  of  plant  nutri- 
ment, being  indeed  the  treasure  vaults  in  which  the 
growing  plants  have  stored  their  gathered  wealth,  for 
use  during  the  second  year  of  their  growth.  These 
plants  are  biennials  ;  during  the  first  season  they  do 
not  blossom  at  all ;  their  energies  are  devoted  to  the 
absorption  and  storage  of  food  material,  which  if  the 
growth  be  uninterrupted,  will  be  used  by  the  plant 
during  the  next  year's  stages  of  flowering  and  seed 
bearing.  Man  avails  himself  of  their  labors  by  culti- 
vating the  plants  till  they  have  accumulated  their 
wealth  of  food,  which  then  he  appropriates  to  his  own 
use. 


*  "It  ranks.*'  says  he,  "  in  this  respect  with  the  nutritious  pea 
and  the  gram  of  the  East.  It  is  not  merely  as  a  relish,  therefore, 
that  the  wayfaring  Spaniard  eats  his  onion  with  his  humble  crust 
of  bread,  as  he  sits  by  the  refreshing  spring;  it  is  because  exper- 
ience has  long  proved,  that,  like  the  cheese  of  the  English 
laborer,  it  helps  to  sustain  his  strength  also,  and  adds— beyond 
what  its  bulk  would  suggest,  to  the  amount  of  nourishment  which 
his  simple  meal  supplies." 


300  DOMESTIC    SCIENCE. 

All  the  roots  named  possess  less  dry  substance  than 
do  potatoes,  weight  for  weight ;  it  will  be  remembered 
that  potatoes  contain  on  an  average  of  20  to  25  per 
cent,  solid  matter,  while  according  to  the  figures  of 
Dr.  Youmans,  turnips  contain  about  10.5  per  cent, 
solid  matter ;  yellow  turnips  13.5  per  cent.,  mangel 
wurtzel  15.5  per  cent.,  carrots  14.22  per  cent.,  beets 
10.9  per  cent.,  and  parsnips  19.6  per  cent.  The 
nature  of  the  solid  contents,  however,  is  such  as  to 
place  the  roots  far  above  the  potato  as  tissue-forming 
food.  The  nitrogenous  ingredients  of  the  dried  mangel 
wurtzel  amount  to  nearly  twice  as  much  as  do  those 
of  the  dried  potato.  Radishes  are  true  roots;  they 
are  used  mostly  as  salad,  and  as  such  are  eaten  raw. 
Their  nutritive  value  is  low. 

In  cooking,  roots  undergo  changes  analogous  to 
those  already  described  in  the  case  of  potatoes  ; — the 
contained  starch  granules  absorb  water,  swell  and 
burst ;  the  albumen  coagulates  and  the  lignin  or 
woody  fibre,  which  is  present  in  all  vegetable  tissues, 
becomes  softened.  If  cooked  in  water,  much  of  the 
mineral  matter  will  be  removed  ;  steaming  and  roast- 
ing are  far  better  processes.  The  skin  should  be  un- 
disturbed until  after  cooking. 

2. LEAVES  AND  LEAF  STEMS. 

These  are  less  extensively  used  as  articles  of  human 
food  than  are  most  other  parts  of  plants.  The  nutri- 
tive qualities  of  leaves  are  shown  by  their  composition, 
and  by  the  fact  that  herbivorous   animals,  including 


VEGETABLE    FOODS    AND    THEIR    COOKEKY.  301 

even  those  of  gigantic  bulk,  derive  their  chief  support 
from  leaves. 

Cabbage  and  Other  Greens. — Cabbage  is  among 

the  commonest  of  leaf  foods  used  by  man.  The 
plant  contains  90  per  cent,  water;  the  remaining  10 
per  cent,  of  solids  is  rich  in  nitrogenous  matter,  and 
contains  a  small  proportion  of  sulphurized  compounds. 
Cabbage,  therefore,  supplies  the  ingredients  in  which 
potatoes  are  deficient,  and  the  union  of  the  two  vege- 
tables is  a  good  one,  and  with  the  addition  of  a  little 
fat,  makes  a  mixture  that  is  generally  nutritive. 

Spinach,  dandelion  leaves,  nettle  tops,  turnip  leaves, 
and  the  fleshy  stems  of  asparagus  are  often  used  as 
1 'greens. '?     They  are  all  nutritive  and  valuable  foods. 

Salads. — Lettuce,  water  cress,  garden  cress,  young 
mustard  plants  and  celery,  furnish  leaves  and  leaf- stalks 
for  food,  and  such  are  largely  used  in  the  raw  state  as 
salads.  Lettuce  contains  a  milky  juice  which  is  pos- 
sessed of  narcotic  properties.  From  the  juice  of  the 
native  plant  lactucarium  is  prepared  ;  this  is  used  in 
medicine  as  a  substitute  for  opium.  The  use  of  salads 
as  food  is  productive  of  good  from  the  fact  that  raw 
plants,  when  eaten,  supply  the  body  with  an  abun- 
dance of  mineral  salts  ;  these  ingredients  are  frequently 
lacking  in  cooked  vegetables.  The  Welsh  peasant, 
and  the  Swiss  mountaineer  would  be  unable  to  preserve 
health  on  their  ordinary  diet  of  cheese  and  bread,  but 
for  the  addition  of  raw  salads  in  abundance.  In  this 
connection  it  should  be  known  that  there  are  many 
valuable  sources  of  food  growing  wild  about  our 
houses  ;   but  these  we  are  apt  to  call  weeds,  and  to  treat 


302  DOMESTIC    SCIENCE. 

them  with  disdain.  Comparing  customs  of  different 
peoples  we  find  a  very  wide  range  of  salad  plants  in 
constant  use.* 

3. — FKUITS. 

Fruits  are  common  articles  of  food.  Most  of  them 
are  of  a  pulpy  consistency,  and  contain  a  large  pro- 
portion of  water,  with  varying  amounts  of  sugar, 
vegetable  acids  and  pectin  or  vegetable  jelly  ;  there  are 
also  present  peculiar  aromatic  substances  which  give 
to  fruits  their  characteristic  flavors.  We  know  com- 
paratively little  of  the  exact  composition  of  fruits. 
Experience  has  proved  them  to  be  pleasing  and  whole- 
some, and  in  moderate  amounts  they  may  profitably 
be  introduced  in  any  ordinary  dietary.  Fruits  may  be 
eaten  raw  or  in  a  preserved  form ;  most  kinds  may 
also  be  dried  and  kept  without  decomposition  for  long 
periods.  Dried  fruits  should  be  cooked  in  water  ;  in 
the  process  they  will  absorb  large  quantities  of  the 
liquid,  and  become  once  more  pulpy  and  juiceful. 

*  M.  Vitmorin,  President  of  the  Botanical  Society  of  France,  in  a 
lecture  on  "Salads,"  (Maivh,  1890),  stated  that  the  French  people 
excel  in  the  use  of  salad  preparations.  He  laid  stress  upon  the 
nutritive  value  of  salads  as  sources  of  potash  and  other  mineral 
salts,  which  are  commonly  eliminated  in  the  process  of  cooking. 
Among  the  various  plants  that  are  used  as  salads  in  France,  he 
enumerated  the  leaves  of  lettuce,  corn-salad,  common  chickory, 
water-cress,  dandelions, (used  green,  blanched  and  half  blanched), 
capucin,  endives,  purslane, (used  in  small  quantities  only),  salsify 
tops,  (described  as  being  of  a  pleasant  nutty  flavor),  witloof  or 
Brussels  chickory,  roots  of  celeriac,  rampion  and  radish:  the 
bulbs  of  stachys,  the  stalks  of  celery,  the  flowers  of  nasturtium, 
and  yucca,  the  fruit  of  capsicum  and  tomato,  and,  in  the  south  of 
France,  rocket,  picridium  and  Spanish  onions.  Various  herbs  are 
added  to  a  French  salad  as  flavors  or  garnishes,  such  as  chervil 
parsley,  olives,  shallot,  and  borage  flowers. 


VEGETABLE    FOODS    AND    THEIR    COOKERY.  303 

General  Composition  of  Fruits.— The  follow- 
ing table,  compiled  by  Berard*  shows  the  average 
chemical  composition  of  five  unripe  and  eight  ripe 
fruits,  comprising  apples,  pears,  gooseberries,  grapes, 
plums,  cherries,  apricots,  and  peaches  : 


U 

nripo. 

Ripe. 

Water 

85.7 

78.7 

Albuminoids 

0.7 

0.6 

Sugar 

- 

4.0 

12.9 

Vegetable  acids    - 

1.5 

1.3 

I'ectose  and  gum 

4.:J, 

3.7 

Cellulose,  etc. 

3.8 

2.8 

4. 

SEEDS. 

Seeds  re  present  innutritive  value  the  richest  of 
ordinary  plant  products,  beiug  indeed  the  accumula- 
tions of  food  material  which  the  plants  have  stored  for 
their  offspring.  Leguminous  seeds,  or  those  that  grow 
in  pods,  such  as  peas  and  beans,  are  among  the  most 
concentrated  of  vegetable  foods.  Analyses  by  Horsford 
and  K rocker,  show  table  peas  to  consist  of : 


Per  cent. 

Albumen 

and  Casein 

28.02 

Stare b 

38.81 

Gum 

28.50 

Skin 

7.65 

Ash 

3.18 

The  nitrogenous  element  of  peas  and  beans  is  mostly 
vegetable  casein,  which  has  already  been  spoken  of  as 
the  basis  of  Chinese  vegetable  cheese. 


*  Quoted  in  "  Scientific  American,"  Aug.  20,  1892. 


304  DOMESTIC    SCIENCE. 

REVIEW. 

1.  Why  are  potatoes  not  to  be  considered  as  true  roots  ? 

2 .  What  do  you  know  of  the  mineral  ingredients  of  potatoes  ? 

3.  Show  the  abundance  of  starch  in  potatoes. 

4.  Explain  the  principal  changes  which  a  potato  undergoes 
in  cooking. 

5.  Define  "boiling." 

6.  Show  that  potatoes  alone  form  a  very  inferior  food. 

7.  Define  "tuber,"   "  bulb,"  "  root." 

8.  State  what  you  know  of  onions  as  food. 

9.  Of  turnips,  carrots,  parsnips,  and  beets. 

10.  Name  the  principal  leaves  used  as  food. 

11.  What  do  you  know  of  cabbage  as  a  food  ? 

12.  Wherein  lies  the  value  of  raw  salads,  used  moderately  ? 

13.  Name  the  principal  salad  materials  in  common  use. 

14.  What  do  you  know  of  fruits  as  food  ? 

15.  Of  seeds? 


GRAINS    AND    BREAD.  305 


CHAPTER     31. 

VEGETABLE    FOODS    CONTINUED GRAINS    AND  BREAD. 

Among  the  most  important  of  vegetable  seeds  used 
as  food  for  man  are  the  grains ;  and  of  these,  wheat, 
barley,  rye,  oats,  buckwheat,  and  rice  are  the  kinds 
most  commonly  employed. 

Wheat  is  the  staple  food  stuff;  its  chief  prepara- 
tion, bread,  has  long  been  known  as  the  "staff  of 
life."  The  average  composition  of  wheat  may  be  rep- 
resented as  follows : 


Water 

11  to  15  per  c( 

Gluten 

12  to  18 

Starch 

53  to  64 

Sugar 

7  to    8 

Gum 

5  to    6 

Bran 

1  to     3 

Ash 

2  to    3 

These  figures  are  the  results  of  numerous  analyses 
of  specimens  from  many  different  sources.  When  a 
thin  section  of  a  wheat  grain,  properly  mounted,  is 
examined  under  the  microscope,  a  very  regular  ar- 
rangement of  its  constituent  parts  is  revealed.  Figure 
95  represents  a  portion  of  such  a  section  ;  A  shows 
the  coats  of  the  seed ;  B  marks  a  row  of  cells  which 
are  rich  in  gluten  ;  C  shows  the  interior  cells  con- 
taining starch  granules. 

The  ash  of  wheat  is  particularly  rich  in  phosphoric 
acid,  and  other  mineral  ingredients  of  great  service 
within  the  body. 


306 


DOMESTIC    SCIENCE. 


The  first  process  by  which  wheat  is  prepared  for  use 
as  human  food  is  one  of  crushing  or  grinding ;  this 
is  usually  performed  between  stones  or  rollers.  The 
resulting  powder  is  then  sifted  and  bolted,  for  the  pur- 
pose of  separating  the  coarse  and  fine  particles.  The 
outer  layers  of  the  grain,  in  the  figure  marked  A  and 
B,  constitute  the  bran  ;  this,  as  separated  in  milling, 
amounts   to  about  15  per  cent,  of  the  gross  weight  of 

wheat,  though  great  var- 
iation exists  in  both  the 
quantity  and  the  compo- 
sition of  bran  from  dif- 
ferent kinds  of  wheat, 
owing  to  the  varying  de- 
grees of  readiness  with 
which  the  husks  separate 
from  the  inner  matter  of 
the  grain  :  in  some  cases 
the  bran  carries  with  it  a 
Chemical  an- 


Fig.  95. 


Part  section  of  wheat  grain 

considerable  part  of  flour  from  within, 
alysis  shows  the  bran  to  be  richer  in  nutritive  elements 
than  is  the  interior  flour ;  it  is  plain  then  that  much 
valuable  substance  is  lost  from  grain  by  the  separation 
of  the  bran. 

Flour,— Whole-meal  and  Sifted.— The  question 

as  to  the  relative  merits  of  sifted  and  of  whole-meal 
flours  has  long  been  agitated.  Certain  it  is  that  the 
superfine  flours  now  in  the  market  are  sadly  deficient 
in  essential  alimentary  matters,  which  have  been  lost 
in  the  milling  processes  ;  and  the  results  of  experiment 
and  of  experience  indicate  a  preference  for  whole-meal 


GRAINS    AND    BIIKAD.  30  7 

flour,  though  such  should  be  ground  fine.  It  is  known 
that  the  husk  of  wheat  is  liable  to  produce  derange- 
ment of  the  digestive  organs  because  of  its  coarse, 
irritating  nature*  and  its  comparative  insolubility. 
The  nitrogenous  parts  of  the  bran  are  mostly  located 
in  the  inner  layers  of  the  husk  ;  the  outer  layer  of  bran 
contains  about  4.5  per  cent,  gluten;  the  inner  part 
shows  18  per  cent.  It  is  therefore  possible  by  remov- 
ing the  outer  layers  only  to  increase  the  proportion  of 
nutritive  ingredients  in  the  remaining  meal,  at  the 
same  time  rendering  the  flour  more  readily  digestible.! 
Flour  is  now  attainable  of  many  degrees  of  fineness, 
with  corresponding  variations  in  color ;  the  finest  and 
whitest  contain  much  starch,  while  the  coarse  and 
darker  varieties  show  a  larger  amount  of  gluten  and  of 
mineral  salts.  It  is  plain  then  that  the  darker  flours 
excel  the  superfine  grades  in  nutritive  value  ;  and  that 
whiteness  in  flour  caunot  be  properly  considered  an 
indication  of  superiority. 

Yeast,  its  Structure  and  Properties. — To  pro- 


*"If  the  husk,  which  is  demanded  by  the  whole-meal  agitators 
were  as  digestible  as  the  inner  flour  they  would  unquestionably 
be  right;  but  it  is  easy  to  show  that  it  is  not,  and  that  in  some 
cases  the  passage  of  the  undigested  particles  may  produce  mis- 
chievous irritation  in  the  intestinal  canal.  My  own  opinion  on 
this  subject  *  *  *  *  is  that  a  middle  course  is  the 
right  one,  viz.,  that  bread  should  be  made  of  moderately  dressed 
or  'seconds'  flour,  rather  than  overdressed  'firsts'  or  undressed 
'thirds,'— i.  e.,  unsifted  whole-meal  flour."     Matttett  Williams. 

t  "This  removal  of  the  outer  fibrous  coat  involves  a  loss  of  about 
2  pounds  in  100  pounds  of  grain.  It  may  be  accomplished  by 
moistening  the  grain  and  rubbing  it,  or  by  the  special  process  of 
milling  known  as  decortication.''  Johnston. 


308  DOMESTIC    SCIENCE. 

duce  the  soft,  porous,  spongy  bread,  so  justly  esteemed 
as  the  basis  of  our  foods,  a  quantity  of  yeast  is  com- 
monly incorporated  with  the  flour.  Ordinarily  yeast 
appears  as  a  murky  liquid,  with  a  bitterish  taste  and 
an  odor  that  is  suggestive  of  beer.  On  standing, 
bakers'  yeast  usually  deposits  a  heavy  sediment,  which 
consists  mostly  of  potato  pulp  and  other  vegetable 
matters  added  in  the  making.  The  purest  and  best 
yeast  is  the  brewer's  "  barm,"  which  is  developed  in 
the  beer  vats  during  fermentation.  As  an  aid  to  our 
understanding  of  the  use  of  yeast  a  few  experiments 
should  be  made.  If  a  small  quantity  of  yeast  be  put 
into  fresh  fruit  juice  or  any  saccharine  solution,  and 
the  mixture  be  kept  at  a  proper  temperature,  bubbles 
of  gas  are  soon  evolved,  and  alcohol  is  formed,  while 
the  sugar  of  the  liquid  disappears.  These  changes  are 
included  under  the  general  name  of  fermentation. 
The  gas  referred  to  may  be  collected  and  tested  ;  it  will 
prove  itself  to  be  carbon  dioxide. 

Now  let  us  examine  a  drop  of  yeast  microscopically. 
With  a  proper  magnifying  power,  we  shall  find  it  to  be 
a  collection  of  small,  oval  bodies,  distributed  through 
a  watery  liquid  (figure  96).  If  yeast  be  filtered  so  as 
to  separate  the  tiny  bodies  from  the  liquid,  the  latter 
does  not  excite  fermentation  in  sweetened  fluids ;  the 
corpuscles  then  are  necessary  to  the  efficacy  of  the 
yeast.  If  yeast  be  boiled,  it  loses  its  peculiar  power 
of  producing  fermentative  changes  ;  this  seems  to  be 
for  the  same  reason  that  cooked  potatoes  and  peas  have 
lost  their  power  of  germination — the  heat  has  de- 
stroyed   the    vitality    of    the    organism.      If    yeast    be 


GRAINS    AND    BREAD. 


309 


added  to   pure   water, 
there   is    lack   of  food 


it  does  not  develop,  because 
materials ;  yeast  so  treated  in 
reality  starves  to  death.  In 
a  properly  prepared  solu- 
tion, however,  the  yeast 
rapidly  increases,  so  that  if 
but  a  few  drops  of  yeast  be 
added  the  whole  liquid  will 
soon  be  swarming  with  yeast 
organisms.  The  vitality  of 
yeast  is  suspended  at  a  low 
temperature ;     this     renders 

Fig.  96.  -  ' 

Yeast,  as   seen  through   the  possible  the  preparation  and 
microscope.  use  0f  "compressed  yeast," 

which  consists  of  yeast  cells,  freed  from  an  excess  of 
water,  and  preserved  on  ice  in  carefully  wrapped  pack- 
ages. These  facts  prove  that  the  yeast  corpuscles  are 
in  reality  living  organisms ;  like  other  living  things 
they  grow  in  size  and  increase  in  numbers  :  they  need 
food  for  their  development ;  they  may  be  starved,  or 
may  be  killed  by  temperature  too  high  or  too  low. 
Careful  observations  warrant  the  conclusion  that  the 
yeast  organism  is  in  fact  a  plant  belonging  to  the 
fungi :  to  which  class  also  belong  common  mildews  or 
molds,  mushrooms,  toadstools  and  the  like.  It  lives 
and  breathes  essentially  as  do  other  plants,  though  it 
possesses  peculiar  habits  of  its  own.  The  carbon 
dioxide  and  alcohol  already  referred  to  as  products  of 
yeast  fermentation  are  indeed  the  exhaled  breath  of  the 
plant. 

Dough. — When  wheaten  flour  is   well   moistened, 


310  DOMESTIC    SCIENCE. 

its  particles  cohere  to  form  a  soft,  tenacious  dough.  If 
made  from  the  best  of  flours;  i.  e.,  varieties  rich  in 
gluten,  dough  is  very  elastic  and  ductile;  admitting  of 
ready  molding  and  rolling  into  thin  strips.  Dough 
that  consists  only  of  flour  mixed  with  water  is  poorly 
adapted  for  the  making  of  bread,  as  when  baked  it 
becomes  hard,  dense  and  brittle.  Let  us  inquire  con- 
cerning the  action  of  yeast  in  dough-making.  The 
yeast  is  placed  in  the  flour,  with  proper  admixture  of 
food  materials, — potato  pulp,  hops,  sugar,  etc.  ;  the 
whole  is  then  kept  at  a  moderate  temperature  till  fer- 
mentation begins,  then  flour  and  yeast  are  mixed,  and 
thoroughly  kneaded,  by  which  process  the  yeast  cells 
are  distributed  throughout  the  dough.  Fermentation 
continues  within  the  dough :  the  yeast  plants  thrive 
under  the  favorable  condition  of  good  food  and  proper 
temperature ;  and  they  exhale  much  carbon  dioxide 
and  alcohol  vapor.  These  gaseous  emanations  by  their 
buoyancy  strive  to  escape  from  the  dough,  and  in  so 
doing  cause  a  puffing  of  the  latter,  which  results  in  a 
rising  of  the  dough  and  the  formation  of  a  sponge. 

Baking1  Of  Dough. — The  dough  is  next  to  be 
molded  and  set  in  the  oven  ;  there  the  gases  expand 
under  the  influence  of  increased  temperature;  much 
of  the  water  present  is  converted  into  vapor,  and  adds 
to  the  buoyant  effect ;  as  a  result  the  bread  "rises" 
and  becomes  still  more  porous  and  spongy.  The 
dough  is  partially  dried,  and  the  walls  around  the 
pores  become  sufficiently  rigid  to  permanently  retain 
their  position  and  shape.      When  the  temperature  has 


GliAlNS    AND    BREAD.  311 

risen  sufficiently,  the  yeast  plants  are  killed  and  the 
fermentation  is  consequently  stopped  at  the  proper 
stage.  The  best  temperature  for  bread  baking  is 
about  4  50°  F.  ;  this  heat  would  completely  char  dry 
flour;*  but  evaporation  of  water  from  the  dough 
takes  place  as  the  baking  proceeds,  and  this  renders 
latent  much  of  the  heat,  and  prevents  a  burning  of  the 
dough.  Inside  the  loaf  the  temperature  seldom  far 
exceeds  that  of  boiling  water.  The  outer  parts  of  the 
loaf  are  more  highly  heated  than  are  the  inner ;  in 
consequence  a  surrounding  shell  or  crust  is  formed. 
In  this  crust  much  of  the  starch  has  been  converted 
into  dextrin  ;  or  if  the  loaf  has  been  highly  browned, 
some  caramel  may  have  been  formed.  Dextrin,  it  will 
be  remembered,  is  soluble  in  water,  and  in  some  in- 
stances a  glossy  film  of  dextrin  is  found  on  the  outside 
of  the  loaf.  The  crust  possesses  a  slightly  sweetish 
taste,  and  is  more  readily  dissolved  in  the  digestive 
fluids  than  is  the  crumb. 

Bread,  New,  and  Stale.— Freshly  baked  or 
new  bread  is  tenacious,  soft  and  apparently  moist ; 
if  kept  some  days  after  baking,  however,  bread  be- 
comes hard,  brittle,  and  seemingly  much  drier.  Boussin- 
gault  showed  that  the  difference  between  new  and  stale 
bread  is  not  entirely  due  to  the  drying  process  ;  in 
demonstrating  this  he  kept  a  very  stale  loaf  in  a  heated 
oven  for  an  hour  ;   during  the  operation  the  bread  lost  a 


*  Some  bakers  test  the  temperature  of  the  oven  by  throwing  2 
little  flour  upon  the  floor.  If  this  blackens  at  once  the  heat  is 
satisfactory. 


312  DOMESTIC    SCIENCE. 

quantity  of  moisture,  becoming  in  reality  drier,  yet  it 
came  from  the  oven  as  a  new  loaf.* 

Baking  Powders. — Numerous  substitutes  for 
yeast  in  bread -making  have  been  proposed;  most  of 
these  are  chemical  mixtures,  passing  under  the  generic 
name  of  baking  powders.  The  principle  upon  which 
such  preparations  act  to  render  dough  spongy,  may 
be  illustrated  by  mixing  a  little  baking  soda  with  dilute 
hydrochloric  acid.  As  soon  as  the  substances  come 
together  a  copious  evolution  of  carbon  dioxide  occurs  ; 
if  such  a  liberation  of  gas  should  take  place  within  the 
dough,  it  would  cause  the  desired  puffing  and  lighten- 
ing of  the  latter.  A  common  preparation  of  the  sort 
consists  of  sodium-bicarbonate,  and  hydrochloric  acid, 
in  the  proportion  of  one  ounce  of  soda,  to  nine  fluid 
drachms  acid ;  these  to  be  mixed  with  eight  pounds  of 
flour.  Another  product  of  the  reaction  between  the 
acid  and  the  soda,  is  sodium  chloride  or  common  salt, 
and  as  this  is  deyeloped  within  the  dough,  and  is 
therefore  distributed  throughout  the  mass,  no  other 
addition  of  salt  is  necessary  in  the  process. 

Many  common  baking  powders  contain  ammonium 
carbonate,  which  substance  decomposes  when  exposed 
to  heat,  and  forms  gaseous  ammonia,  carbon  dioxide, 


*  "He  [Boussingault]  found  that  during  the  six  days,  while  be- 
coming stale,  it  only  lost  one  per  cent,  of  its  weight  by  drying ; 
and  that  during  the  one  hour  in  the  oven  it  lost  three  and  a  half 
per  cent,  in  becoming  new,  and  apparently  more  moist.  By  using 
an  air  tight  case  instead  of  an  ordinary  oven,  he  repeated  the  ex- 
ppriment  several  times  in  succession  on  the  same  piece  of  bread 
making  it  alternately  stale  arid  new  each  time."  Williams, 


GRAINS    AND    BREAD.  313 

and  vapor  of  water.  These  gases  expand  within  the 
dough  and  produce  a  porous  mass.  The  use  of  am- 
monium compounds  is  objected  to  for  hygienic  reasons  ; 
yet  baking  powders  of  this  sort  are  in  commoner  use 
than  is  generally  supposed ;  and  a  person  may  daily 
purchase  of  our  city  bakers  fresh  hot  cakes  and 
biscuits  all  strongly  smelling  of  hartshorn. 

Alum  Baking5  Powders  are  considered  objection- 
able by  most  hygienists.  It  has  been  proved  that 
constant  doses  of  alum  will  surely  prove  of  detriment 
to  health;  though  the  quantity  taken  at  a  single  eat- 
ing of  alum  bread  is  small.  The  chief  reason  for 
adding  alum  to  dough,  is  to  secure  an  increased 
whiteness  in  the  bread ;  this  object  it  accomplishes 
admirably,  though  the  mode  of  its  operation  is  not 
well  understood.  The  "rocky"  used  by  British  bak- 
ers consists,  according  to  Tomlinson,  of  one  part  alum 
and  three  parts  common  salt. 

Aerated  Bread. — Attempts  have  been  made  to 
introduce  aerated  bread  to  popular  favor.  To  prepare 
this  kind  of  bread,  dough  is  made  without  admixture 
of  y*east  or  baking  powder ;  this  is  then  inflated  and 
puffed  by  having  air  or  carbon  dioxide  forced  into  it 
under  high  pressure.  Bread  so  prepared  has  a  pecu- 
liar "flat''  taste,  not  at  all  appreciated  by  most 
people. 

Barley  and  Rye. — Next  to  wheat,  these  claim  our 
attention  as  food  grains.  These  are  both  allied  in 
composition  to  wheat.  The  following  analyses  by 
Poggaile  are  illustrative : 


314 


DOMESTIC    SCIENCE. 


Barley. 

Rye. 

Per  cent. 

Per  cent 

Water  . 

15.22 

15.53 

Albuminoids 

10.65 

8.79 

Starch,  dextrin 

60.33 

65.53 

Fat 

2.38 

1.99 

Woody  fibre  . 

8.78 

6.38 

Ash 

2.62 

1.77 

Barley,  though  rich  in  nitrogenous  matter,  is  de- 
ficient in  true  gluten,  and  is  therefore  not  adapted  for 
making  dough.  Hulled  barley  is  the  grain  after  the 
removal  of  its  husk  ;  and  pearl  barley  consists  of  the 
inner  parts  of  the  kernel  only.  Eye  contains  more 
saccharine  matter  than  does  either  wheat  or  barley. 
Its  bran  possesses  an  aromatic  flavor,  which  is 
appreciated  by  many.  The  nitrogenous  matter  of  rye 
is  closely  allied  to  casein  ;  it  has  been  called  soluble 
gluten. 

Maize  or  Indian  corn  is  rich  in  fatty  matter,  though, 
on  the  whole,  it  is  less  nutritious  than  is  wheat.  Its 
nitrogenous  ingredient  is  peculiar  ;  unlike  true  gluten 
it  is  not  adhesive,  and  corn  bread  in  consequence 
crumbles  readily.  Compare  the  following  analysis  (by 
Poggaile)  with  the  other  analytical  data  already  citfcd. 
Yellow  maize  contains  : 


Water 

Nitrogenous  matter 

Starch,  dextrin,  sugar 

Fats       ..... 

Woody  Fibre  and  coloring  matter 

Ash 


Per  cent. 
13.47 
9.90 
64.53 

6.68 
3.97 
1.44 

lue   to  the  ease 


Corn  meal  readily  spoils ;  this  is 
with  which  the  fatty  matter  undergoes  oxidation. 
Crushed  corn  divested  of  its  outer  skin  is  known  as 
hominy. 


GRAINS    AND    BREAD. 


315 


OatS  are  in  some  parts  of  the  world  more  exten- 
sively used  as  food  for  men  than  in  this  country.  In 
nutritive  value,  that  is  as  a  flesh  producer,  oat-flour 
excels  all  other  grain  preparations.  Oats  are  rich  in 
oily  matter.  Meal  from  oats  is  used  mostly  in  por- 
ridge or  gruel,  though  oat  cakes  are  esteemed  by  those 
who  have  learned  to  know  their  merits.  The  follow- 
ing table  represents  the  composition  of  dry  oats ;  it 
will  be  observed  that  the  characteristic  nitrogenous 
matter  has  received  the  special  name,  avenin  (from 
avena,  meaning  oat)  : 


Water     . 
Avenin  \ 

Albumen  [ 

Gluten  ) 

Starch,  sugar,  gun 
Fat 

Woody  fibre    . 
Ash 


Per  cent. 
14.3 


12.0 


54.9 
6.0 

10.3 
3.0 


Buckwheat  is  highly  nutritious,  being  in  some 
respects  almost  equal  to  wheat. 

Rice  differs  from  most  other  grains  in  being  richer 
in  starch,  and  more  deficient  in  oil  and  nitrogenous 
matters.  The  albuminoids  are  not  more  than  half  as 
abundant  as  in  oatmeal.  Some  samples  of  rice  con- 
tain over  80  per  cent,  starch,  though  the  average  is 
lower.      Johnston  gives  its  composition  as  : 


Per  cent 

Water 

14.5 

Fibrin 

7.5 

Starch    .... 

76.0 

Fat 

0.5 

Fibre     .... 

1.0 

Ash         .... 

0.5 

316  DOMESTIC    SCIENCE. 

Sago,  tapioca,  arrowroot,  are  all  rich  in  starch ; 
likewise  are  they  easily  digested,  but  are  very  incom- 
plete foods  when  eaten  alone.*  Mtrogenous  and 
fatty  matters  should  be  added  to  them. 


REVIEW. 

1.  Name  the  principal  grains  used  as  food  for  man. 

2.  State  what  you  know  of  the  average  composition  of  wheat. 

3 .  Describe  the  structure  of  a  wheat  grain  as  revealed  Jby 
the  microscope. 

4.  How  is  wheat  prepared  for  use  as  human  food  ? 

5.  Give  reasons  for  your  opinion  as  to  the  relative  values  of 
sifted  and  whole-meal  flours. 

6.  Explain  the  preparation  of  dough. 

7.  What  is  the  purpose  of  adding  yeast  in  making  dough? 

8.  How  is  yeast  prepared? 

9.  What  does  the  microscope  teach  us  respecting  the  nature 
of  yeast  ? 

10.  What  proof  have  you  that  yeast  contains  living  organisms  ? 

11.  Explain  the  "rising"  of  dough. 

12.  Explain  the  changes  taking  place  as  dough  is  baked  into 
bread. 

13.  Describe  the  difference  between  crust  and  crumb  of  bread. 

14.  Explain  the  difference  between  new  and  stale  bread. 

15.  What  are  baking  powders  ? 

16.  What  effect  has  a  small  amount  of  alum  when  mixed  with 
dough  ? 

17.  What  do  you  know  of  barley  as  food  ? 

18.  Of  rye  ?    Of  maize  ?    Of  oats?    Of  buckwheat  ?    Of  rice  ? 


*Some  people  regard  arrowroot,  tapioca,  and  sago  prepara- 
tions as  admirable  foods  for  invalids;  and  without  doubt  many  a 
patient  has  been  in  danger  of  starving  to  death  through  this 
ignorance  on  the  part  of  kindly-disposed  nurses.  Starch  is  not  a 
tissue-forming  food,  and  to  be  measurably  nutritious  such  farina- 
ceous dishes  should  be  enriched  with  good  milk  or  eggs.  Starchy 
foods  are  not  adapted  to  the  digestive  conditions  of  infants. 


ANIMAL  FOODS  AND    THEIR  COOKERY.  317 


CHAPTER    32. 

ANIMAL    FOODS    AND     THEIR     COOKERY',    MEAT    AND    EGGS. 

Flesh  as  Food. — All  kinds  of  lean  flesh  are  rich 
in  nitrogenous  ingredients,  principally  as  myosin, 
fibrin,  and  albumen.  Fresh  meats  contain  a  very 
large  proportion  of  water ;  lean  beef  is  nearly  80  per 
cent,  water.  All  meats,  even  the  leanest,  contain  a 
considerable  proportion  of  fat,  which  during  the  life 
of  the  animal  existed  within  the  body  as  oils.  The 
following  analysis  (by  Schurtz)  of  pure  lean  beef  is 
instructive  : 

l'er  cent. 

Fibrin  and  myosin      -  15.0 
Albumen             -  4.3 

Extractive  matters,  soluble  in  water      -  1.8 

"   -  "  "         "    alcohol  1.3 

Phosphates        .....  traces 
Fat            -                       ....  o.l 

Water 77.5 

This  may  be  taken  as  a  type  of  lean  meats  generally, 
though  considerable  variation  exists  among  meats 
from  different  animals.  Veal  and  venison  are  gener- 
erally  deficient  in  fat ;  pork  on  the  other  hand  is  ex- 
cessively oily.  As  a  rule,  the  flesh  of  wild  animals 
contains  but  little  fat,  whereas  domesticated  animals, 
even  if  in  poor  bodily  condition,  contain  relatively 
much  oily  matter.  The  analysis  quoted  above  is  of 
pure  lean  muscle  as  free  from  fat  as  it  was  possible  to 


318  DOMESTIC    SCIENCE. 

procure  the  same  ;  ordinarily,  however,  meat  contains 
several  per  cent,  of  fat ;  of  dry  meat  substance,  fully 
one -fourth  is  fat.  The  flesh  of  birds  generally  con- 
tains less  fat  than  does  meat  from  quadrupeds,  though 
some  birds  when  kept  in  captivity  may  be  artificially 
fattened. 

Fish  of  different  kinds  show  varying  contents  of 
fat.  The  flesh  of  all  fish  is  rich  in  albuminoids,  and  in 
mineral  salts,  especially  phosphates ;  some  kinds,  how- 
ever, as  trout,  whiting,  sole,  and  carp  are  compara- 
tively poor  in  fats,  while  salmon,  eels,  and  others  are 
particularly  rich  in  oil. 

Cookery  of  Meat— Seething".— As  a  rule,  meats 

and  fish  in  a  fresh  state  are  readily  digested ;  among 
meats,  veal  and  pork  are  comparatively  difficult  to 
digest.  Cooking  is  productive  of  many  great  changes 
in  the  condition  of  meat.  If  meat  be  immersed  in  cold 
water,  much  of  its  albumen  and  many  of  its  sapid 
juices  and  mineral  salts  will  be  washed  away,  and 
little  more  than  the  juiceless  myosin  will  remain.  If 
meat  must  be  seethed  (or  as  it  is  improperly  said, 
"boiled")  let  it  be  done  by  immersing  the  flesh  in 
boiling  water  at  first ;  the  effect  of  this  will  be  to 
harden  the  albumen  in  the  superficial  parts  of  the 
meat,  and  produce  an  outer  protecting  layer  by  which 
the  inner  juices  will  be  retained.  The  cooking  should 
then  be  completed  at  a  lower  temperature ;  not  above 
165°  F.  ;  for  it  will  be  remembered  that  the  heat  of 
boiling  water  is  effectual  in  hardening  albumen  into 
an  indigestible  mass.  Under  the  best  conditions, 
seething  is  a  poor  mode   of  cooking  meat,   except  in 


ANIMAL    FOODS    AND    THEIR    COOKERY.  319 

making  stews,  in  which  case  the  watery  extract  and 
the  solid  residue  are  eaten  together.* 

The  Water-bath. — To  guard  against  undue  heat, 
it  is  well  to  conduct  the  cooking  of  albumen  in  a 
steam -bath  or  water-bath.  The  essential  features  of 
the  latter  are  represented  in  figure  97  ;  A  is  an  outer 
vessel,  containing  water,  into  which  the  cooking-re- 
ceptacle, B,  is  fitted.  The  contents  of  B  will  not  be 
raised  to  the  full  temperature  of  boiling  water. 

Soup-making'. —  In      the     preparation    of     soups, 
however,    an    opposite   course   from  that   designed   to 
retain  the  juices  is  indicated.     In  such  a  case  it  is  de- 
*      sirable  to  extract  the  meat 
"^~^  &    juices  and  this  is  best  done 

^^=^     Mtl'wL^^         1),v    sukJec*ino  meat    in    a 
:    yFljfl ^  minced  state,  to  the  action 

^^VjElSt/  of  cold  water,  the   result - 

Yig.  97.  ing  extract  of  meat  may  be 

water-bath.  afterward  heated  and  flav- 

ored. The  heating,  however,  should  be  carefully  reg- 
ulated, else  the  temperature  may  rise  to  the  point  of 
coagulation  of  the  contained  albumen,  which  will  then 
separate  in  shreds  or  flakes,  and  the  careful  cook  will 
be  sure  to  remove  these  floating  bits,  and  thus  will 
lose  some  very  valuable  material.     Myosin  or   animal 


*"It  should  be  boiled  only  for  a  few  minutes,  and  then  kept 
for  some  time  at  a  temperature  from  158°  to  165°.  Meat  is-  under- 
done or  bloody  when  it  has  been  heated  throughout  only  to  the 
temperature  of  coagulating  albumen  (140°) ;  it  is  quite  done  or 
cooked  when  it  has  been  heated  through  its  whole  mass  to  158°  or 
105°,  at  which  temperature  the  coloring  matter  of  the  blood  coag- 
luates."  Youmax's. 


320  DOMESTIC     SCIENCE. 

fibrin  is  practically  insoluble  in  cold  water ;  it  is 
therefore  impossible  to  extract  it  by  maceration,  and 
although  treatment  with  cold  water  will  remove  most 
of  the  sapid  constituents  of  the  meat,  together  with 
some  gelatin  and  mineral  salts,  leaving  only  a  fibrous 
residue  which  is  almost  tasteless,  and  if  eaten  alone, 
actually  nauseating,  still  the  extract  without  the  fibre 
is  a  very  poor  diet.  Many  sick  people  have  been 
almost  starved  on  a  beef  tea  regimen.*  All  kinds  of 
meat  extracts,  of  which  there  are  many  now  in  the 
markets,  are  deceptive  as  to  their  true  nutritive  value. 
Roasting"  if  properly  conducted  will  produce  far 
better  results  than  are  possible  in  seething.  In  the 
roasting  process,  meat  should  be  exposed  at  the  be- 
ginning to  an  intense  heat, — the  best  effects  are  ob- 
tained from  an  initial  temperature  of  400°  F.  ;  by 
such  means  the  surface  albumen  is  hardened,  and  an 
impervious  layer  is  formed  about  the  inner  parts  in 
which  the  juices  are  held.  This  temperature  should 
be  maintained  for  a  short  time — for  small  joints  about 


*  Dr.  Martin  says  of  beef  tea : — "  The  flavoring  matters  make  it  de- 
ceptively taste  as  if  it  were  a  strong  .solution  of  the  whole  meat, 
whereas  it  contains  but  a  small  proportion  of  the  really  nutritious 
parts,  which  are  chiefly  left  behind  in  tasteless  shrunken  shreds 
when  the  liquid  is  poured  off.  Some  things  dissolved  out  of  the 
meat  make  beef  tea  a  slight  stimulant,  but  its  really  nutritive 
value  is  small,  and  it  cannot  be  relied  upon  to  keep  up  a  sick  per- 
son's strength  for  any  length  of  time.  Liebig's  extract  of  meat 
is  essentially  but  a  concentrated  beef  tea;  from  its  stimulating 
effect  it  is  often  useful  to  persons  in  feeble  health,  but  other  food 
should  be  given  with  it.  It  contains  all  the  flavoring  matters  of 
the  meat,  and  its  proper  use  is  for  making  gravies  and  flavoring 
soups,  the  erroneousness  of  the  common  belief  that  it  is  a  highly 
nutritious  food  cannot  be  too  strongly  insisted  upon,  as  sick  per- 
sons may  be  starved  on  it  if  ignorantly  used." 


ANIMAL    FOODS    AND    THEIR    COOKERY.  321 

one -sixth  of  the  entire  time  required  for  complete 
roasting, — the  heat  should  then  be  reduced  and  the 
subsequent  cooking  allowed  to  proceed  at  200°  F. 
The  gravy  of  roasted  meat  consists  of  melted  fat  and 
some  juice  that  has  found  its  way  out  of  the  joint. 

In  baking  meats,  a  vessel  of  water  should  be  set  in 
the  oven  that  the  heated  air  may  be  well  supplied  with 
liquid  ;  else  as  its  capacity  for  moisture  increases  with 
the  rising  temperature  it  will  absorb  the  fluid  parts  of 
the  meat  and  produce  a  disagreeable  dryness  of  the 
joint.  By  the  old-time  style  of  spit  roasting,  it  was 
necessary  to  constantly  baste  the  meat  by  pouring 
melted  fat  over  the  surface,  otherwise  a  deplorable 
loss  of  juice  would  have  occurred.  Such  fish  as  is 
naturally  poor  in  oil  should  be  coated  with  grease 
during  the  cooking  operation,  to  aid  in  the  retention 
of  its  juices. 

Broiling'  OF  Grilling  is  a  common  method  of 
cooking  small  pieces  of  meat,  such  as  steaks,  chops, 
and  cutlets.  The  meat  should  be  exposed  to  the  high 
heat  of  a  bright  aud  smokeless  fire ;  the  result  will  be 
a  rich,  juicy  morsel;  whereas  slow  cooking  will  pro- 
duce a  dried  ill -flavored  piece,  alike  unattractive  to 
eye  and  palate. 

Frying1,  among  all  common  operations  of  cooking 
is  perhaps  the  most  objectionable  from  a  hygienic 
point  of  view.  As  ordinarily  performed,  the  frying 
process  consists  of  smearing  a  thin  layer  of  fat  on 
the  bottom  of  a  frying-pan,  placing  therein  the  thing 
to  be  cooked — say  for  example  a  piece  of  meat — and 
heating  the  whole  over  a  fire.      But    one  side   of  the 


3  22 


DOMESTIC    SCIENCE. 


piece  will  be  heated  at  a  time,  and  though  the  under 
surface  may  be  browned,  the  upper  side  remains  un- 
cooked long  enough  to  allow  the  escape  of  juices  from 
within.  Some  fat  will  be  absorbed  by  the  meat,  and 
the  fibres  becoming  thus  coated  will  resist  the  subse- 
quent action  of  the  digestive  fluids.  The  great  mistake 
in  ordinary  frying  lies  in  proceeding  as  if  the  cooking 
depended  upon  direct  conduction  of  heat  from  the  fire 
through  the  iron  floor  of  the  pan  to  the  meat,  the  fat 
being  regarded  as  useful  only  in  preventing  the  meat 
from  sticking  to  the  metal.  The  fat  should  be  suffi- 
ciently abundant  to  envelop  and  surround  the  meat, 
as   by   such   method  only   can  heat   be   communicated 

uniformly  on  all  sides. 
Good  cooks  are  now 
abandoning  the  frying 
pan  for  the  frying  kettle  ; 
an  illustration  of  the  lat- 
ter device  is  here  repro- 
duced (figure  98,  after 
Frying  kettle.  Gouffe).     The  vessel  is  a 

deep  one  ;  a  movable  tray  of  coarse -mesh  wire  (shown 
here  removed)  rests  within  an  inch  or  two  of  the  bot- 
tom. Sufficient  fat  is  placed  within  to  completely 
cover  this  tray  when  the  latter  is  in  position.  The  fat 
is  highly  heated,  and  the  thing  to  be  cooked  is  then 
placed  upon  the  wire  support,  completely  immersed  in 
the  oily  bath.  The  effect  of  this  method  is  to  heat  the 
object  on  all  sides,  and  to  retain  most  of  its  juices. 
Contrary  to  ordinary  expectation,  experiment  shows 
that  such  a  bath  of  fat  may   be  used  for  fish,    meats. 


ANIMAL    FOODS    AND    THKIR    COOKERY.  323 

vegetables,  and  fruits  in  succession,  without  communi- 
cating the  flavor  of  one  to  the  others.  The  employ- 
ment of  so  large  a  quantity  of  fat  is  not  as  extravagant 
as  would  at  first  thought  appear,  as  less  is  absorbed 
by  this  process  than  by  the  greased  pan  method.  When 
necessary,  the  fat  may  be  purified  by  removing  its 
suspended  particles  which  readily  separate  as  sediment 
or  scum. 

EggS  constitute  an  important  item  of  animal  food. 
Those  of  domestic  fowls,  ducks,  geese,  and  turkeys 
are  commonly  used.  An  examination  of  an  egg  will 
show  it  to  consist  of  shell,  white,  and  yolk.  Of  these 
the  shell  is  discarded  from  food,  the  other  parts  are 
eaten.  The  white  of  egg  is  almost  pure  albumen  ;  the 
yolk  consists  mainly  of  water,  albumen,  and  a  peculiar 
oil,  bright  yellow  in  color  and  containing  compounds 
of  sulphur  and  phosphorus.  This  oil  forms  nearly 
two -thirds  by  weight  of  the  perfectly  dry  yolk.  The 
fat  of* the  egg  is  concentrated  in  the  yolk,  the  white 
being  poorly  supplied  with  oily  matter.  The  compo- 
sition of  eggs,  exclusive  of  shell,  will  be  understood 
from  the  following  table  (Johnston). 


White. 

Yolk. 

Whole  egg. 

Per  cent. 

Per  cent. 

Per  cent. 

Water     . 

85 

51.5 

71.75 

Albumen 

12 

15 

14 

Fat,  etc. 

2 

32 

13 

Phosphat* 

3S,  etc. 

1 

15 

1.25 

In  cooking  eggs  it  should  be  remembered  that  the 
albumen  is  completely  coagulated  at  a  temperature 
below  160°  F. ;  and  any  higher  heat  will  harden  the 
substance.     The  old-time  method  of  cooking  eggs  in 


324  DOMESTIC    SCIENCE. 

the  shells  was  to  keep  them  in  boiling  water  for  three 
minutes;  "  egg  timers"  were  made  on  the  principle 
of  the  hour  glass ;  as  soon  as  the  eggs  were  immersed 
the  glass  was  turned,  and  when  the  sand  had  run  its 
course  the  eggs  were  considered  done.  A  better 
method  consists  in  placing  the  eggs  in  water  that  is 
near  the  boiling  temperature,  allowing  about  a  pint 
of  water  to  each  egg.  The  eggs  will  share  the  heat 
of  the  water  and  the  temperature  will  be  reduced  to 
the  required  degree,  and  the  cooking  will  proceed 
without  danger  of  over-heating.  The  vessel  con- 
taining the  water  and  eggs  should  of  course  be  set 
aside  from  the  fire ;  the  eggs  cannot  become  hard  even 
by  prolonged  exposure  to  water  below  160°  F. 


REVIEW. 

1.  State  what  you  know  of  the  relative  food  values  of  some 
common  meats.  • 

2.  What  is  the  effect  of  placing  lean  meat  in  cold  water  ? 

3.  What  is  the  effect  of  hot  water  on  lean  meat  ? 

4.  What  do  we  learn  from    these  facts,  as  to  the   proper 
means  of  cooking  meat  ? 

5.  Describe  the  water-bath. 

6.  Of  what  value  is  the  water- bath  in  cooking  ? 

7.  What  is  meant  by  seething  meat  ? 

8.  What  do  you  know  of  the  value  of  beef  tea  as  a  diet  for 
invalids  ? 

9.  Explain  the  changes  taking  place  in  the  roasting  of  meat. 

10.  Explain  the  difference  between  roasting  and  baking  meats. 

11.  Explain  the  process  of  broiling  meat. 

12.  Describe  the  ordinary  method  of  frying. 

13.  Show  the  use  of  the  frying  kettle. 

14.  What  do  you  know  of  eggs  as  food  ? 

15.  What  is  the  proper  cooking  temperature  for  eggs  ? 


MILK,     BUTTER,    AND     CHEESE.  325 


CHAPTER    33. 

ANIMAL  FOODS  CONTINUED  ;    MILK,    BUTTER,   AND    CHEESE. 

Milk  constitutes  the  sole  food  of  infants  and  of  the 
young1  of  many  animals  ;  this  fact  is  proof  of  its  nu- 
tritive value.  Chemically,  milk  consists  of  a  large 
proportion  of  water  in  which  is  dissolved  sugar,  casein, 
and  mineral  salts,  while  oil  or  butter  particles  are 
suspended  in  the  fluid.  The  following  table  repre- 
sents the  mean  composition  of  milk  from  different 
sources : 


Cow 

Goat 

Ewe 

Human 
Milk 

Water 

87.02 

86.80 

85.62 

88.90 

Casein  (curd) 
Fat  (butter) 
Sugar  of  milk 
Saline  matter 

4.48 

3.13 

4.77 

.60 

4.08 
3.32 

5.28 
.52 

4.50 

4.20 

5.00 

.68 

3.90 

2.67 

4.36 

.14 

A  drop  of  milk,  when   viewed   through  the   micro- 
scope, appears  as  a  collection  of  many  floating  globules  ; 

such  a  view  is  rep- 
resented in  figure  99. 
Milk,  therefore,  is 
both  a  solution  and 
an  emulsion.  New 
milk  is  slightly  alka- 
line ;  this  property 
assists  in  keeping 
the  fat  globules  in 
suspension.  Oil  and 
pure  water  may  be 
Milk  viewed  through  the  microscope.      agitated    together, 


326  DOMESTIC    SCIENCE. 

yet  as  soon  as  the  liquids  come  to  rest  they  separate  ; 
but  if  the  liquid  be  first  rendered  slightly  alkaline,  the 
oil  by  shaking  will  become  more  finely  divided,  and 
part  of  it  will  be  permanently  distributed  through  the 
water.  As  milk  sours  it  becomes  less  able  to  hold  fat 
globules  in   suspension. 

Milk  is  used  in  its  raw  state,  though  boiled  milk 
is  a  constituent  of  many  prepared  dishes.  In  boiling, 
the  albumen  of  milk  coagulates  and  appears  upon  the 
surface  as  a  scum ;  this  coagulum  is  impervious  to 
steam,  consequently  vapor  cannot  readily  rise  from 
the  heated  liquid,  and  the  milk  "boils  over''  if  the 
heat  be  continued.  All  milk  of  unassured  wholesome- 
ness  should  be  boiled  before  being  used,  as  a  precau- 
tion against  the  possible  communication  of  disease 
germs.  Many  contagious  diseases  have  been  spread 
through  the  medium  of  impure  milk. 

Milk  is  a  nutritious  food,  though  it  is  not  adapted  as 
the  sole  aliment  of  adults.  It  is  a  common  supposi- 
tion that  milk  is  apt  to  produce  troubles  of  indiges- 
tion ;  yet  children  live  upon  it  while  their  digestive 
organs  are  still  weak.  Ill  results  are  likely  to  follow 
the  rapid  drinking  of  large  quantities  of  milk,  because 
the  liquid  curdles  in  the  stomach,  and  if  it  be  unmixed 
with  gastric  juice,  its  assimilation  within  the  body  will 
be  long  delayed.  Milk  should  be  drunk  slowly ;  it 
should  be  sipped  only,  so  as  to  imitate  in  some  degree 
the  natural  method  of  swallowing  milk  directly  from 
the  lacteal  glands.  If  milk  be  used  as  a  beverage,  a 
corresponding  diminution  in  other  animal  foods  should 


MILK,    BUTTER,    AND     CHEKSE.  327 

be  made,  else  the  consumer  may  suffer  from  over -nu- 
trition. 

Cream. — The  fat  globules  of  milk  are  lighter  than 
the  rest  of  the  fluid  ;  consequently  they  rise  and  form 
upon  the  surface  an  oily  layer,  which  is  mingled  with 
considerable  casein  or  cheesy  matter,  and  constitutes 
the  cream.  Xot  all  the  fat  so  rises,  considerable 
still  remains  in  "skim  milk.'"  The  larger  globules  of 
fat  rise  first,  and  the  cream  that  first  forms  is  richer 
than  that  which  appears  subsequently ;  the  dairy 
custom  of  skimming  milk  twice  is  a  good  one,  as 
thereby  may  be  obtained  a  quantity  of  richer  and 
better  flavored  cream.  Fat  globules  cannot  readily 
rise  from  great  depths  of  liquid  ;  it  is  therefore  custo- 
mary to  set  milk  in  shallow  pans  till  the  cream  has 
risen.  In  large  dairies  it  is  now  customary  to  employ 
mechanical  separators,  whereby  the  cream  is  rapidly 
removed  from  the  milk  without  the  long  interval  of 
setting. 

Butter. — By  churning,  the  fat  globules  of  milk  are 
brought  together  to  form  butter.  Most  of  the  water, 
casein,  and  mineral  salts  remain  in  the  butter-milk. 
As  ordinarily  made  butter  contains  about  10  per  cent, 
water,  2  per  cent,  casein  (or  curd),  milk-sugar,  and 
salt,  and  about  88  per  cent.  fats.  It  possesses  in 
addition  to  these  certain  aromatic  compounds  of 
butyric  acid,  to  which  the  peculiar  flavor  of  fresh 
butter  is  due.  Inferior  butters  contain  much  water 
and  salt. 

Many  so-called  Artificial  Butters  have  of  late 
years  been  manufactured  under  the  names   of  margar- 


328  DOMESTIC    SCIENCE. 

ine,  oleo -margarine,  and  butterine.  These  substances 
consist  of  soft  animal  fats  mingled  with  true  butter. 
In  the  preparation  of  such,  animal  suets  are  minced, 
heated  and  pressed,  so  as  to  yield  their  softer  portions 
in  a  liquid  state ;  this  oily  matter  is  then  filtered, 
mixed  with  milk,  and  churned.  As  a  rule  these 
adulterated  butters  are  manufactured  with  care  and 
cleanliness  ;  only  good  fats  are  used  in  the  process, 
and  both  chemically  and  physiologically  such  prepara- 
tions are  as  wholesome  and  almost  as  nutritious  as  is 
true  butter.  It  is  no  less  a  deception,  however  to  sell 
them  under  the  name  of  butter.  Instead  of  seeking 
by  legislative  enactment  to  forbid  the  manufacture  and 
sale  of  imitation  butters,  it  would  seem  wiser  to  enact 
laws  requiring  such  products  "to  be  sold  under  their 
true  names  and  at  a  fair  price.* 

Cheese  may  be  regarded  as  the  pressed  and  salted 
casein  of  milk.  Milk  may  be  curdled  in  many  ways. 
If  left  to  itself  it  undergoes  the  change  spontaneously  ; 
acid  may  be  artificially  added  to  produce  curd  ;  but  the 
best  method  of  causing  coagulation  is  by  the  addition 
of  rennet,  which  consists  of  the  salted  stomach  of  a 
sucking  calf  or  pig.  As  the  casein  coagulates,  it  takes 
with  it  a  considerable  amount  of  fat,  together  with  some 
sugar  and  water,  leaving  most  of  the  water,  sugar,  and 
mineral  compounds  in  the  whey.  In  precipitating 
curd  by  acid,  many  mineral  ingredients  are  lost  in  the 

*The  author  has  analyzed  and  practically  tested  many  artificial 
butters,  and  he  is  convinced  that  good  oleomargarine  is  far  pre. 
ferable  in  flavor  and  wholesomeness  to  inferior  butter;  yet  he  is 
none  the  less  disgusted  that  he  has  had  to  pay  butter  prices  for 
that  which  was  not  butter. 


MILK,     BUTTER,     AND     CHEESE.  329 

whey,  whereas  by  the  use  of  rennet  they  are  retained 
in  the  curd.*  Cheese  is  sometimes  made  from  cream  ; 
such  cheese  is  of  a  very  oily  nature  and  is  prone  to 
rapid  decomposition.  Cheese  made  from  unskimmed 
milk  is  considered  best ;  though  that  made  from 
skimmed  milk  is  rich  in  casein,  but  deficient  in  fats. 
The  following  table  (by  Johnston)  represents  the  rela- 
tive composition  of  whole  milk  and  skimmed  milk 
cheese  : 

Cheddar,  whole    Skim  milk 


milk  cheese. 

cheese. 

Per  cent. 

Per  cent. 

Water 

36 

44 

Curd  or  casein. 

29 

45 

Milk  fat 

30.5 

6 

Salt  and  phosphates       -  4.5  5 

As  a  food,  cheese  is  not  generally  appreciated  ac- 
cording to  its  merits.  It  contains  fully  twice  as  much 
nutritive  solid  matter  as  does  the  best  selected  meats. 
Cheese  is  by  many  considered  to  be  difficult  of  diges- 
tion and  generally  productive  of  ill  results.  Un- 
doubtedly if  eaten  in  large  quantity,  in  addition  to 
other  highly  nutritive  foods,  the  bad  effects  of  exces- 
sive nutrition  will  be  manifested.  Cheese  should  be 
used  to  supplant,  not  simply. to  supplement,  other 
animal  foods.  By  proper  cooking,  cheese  may  be 
rendered  easy  of  digestion. f 


*"  Casein  that  has  not  been  treated  with  acids  contains  about  6 
per  cent,  of  phosphate  of  lime."  Lehmann. 

t  Mr.  Mattieu  Williams,  of  London,  has  reported  many  trials 
upon  the  relative  merits  of  raw  and  of  cooked  cheese.  He  says: 
"  I  may  here  mention  that  I  have  recently  made  some  experi- 
ments on  the  dissolving  of  cheese,  by  adding  sufficient  alkali 
11 


330  DOMESTIC    SCIENCE. 

REVIEW. 

1.  State  what  you  know  of  the  nutritive  value  of  milk. 

2.  Describe  the  microscopical  appearance  of  milk. 

3.  Explain  the  changes  effected  in  milk  by  boiling  it. 

4.  Explain  the  rising  of  cream. 

5.  Explain  the  process  of  churning. 

6.  What  do  you  know  of  artificial  butters  ? 

7.  What  is  cheese  ? 

8.  By  which  two  methods  may  the  casein  of  milk  be  coagu- 
lated in  the  manufacture  of  cheese, 

9.  What  advantage  belongs  to  either  of  these  methods  over 
the  other  ? 

10.  Compare  the  nutritive  value  of   whole  milk  cheese,  with 
that  of  skim -milk  cheese. 

11.  State  your  opinion  of  cheese  as  a  food. 

(carbonate  of  potash)  to  neutralize  the  acid  it  contains,  in  order 
to  convert  the  casein  into  its  original  soluble  form  as  it  esisted  in 
the  niilk,  and  have  partially  succeeded  both  with  water  and  milk 
as  solvents. 


SOME    AUXILIARY    FOODS.  331 


CHAPTER  34. 

SOME    AUXILIARY    FOODS. 


Beside  the  classes  of  true  foods  already  referred  to, 
there  are  certain  substances  which  are  commonly  used 
in  diet,  not  for  their  nutritive  worth,  but  to  impart 
attractive  flavors  to  regular  food.  These  are  some- 
times called  condiments. 

Vinegar  is  one  of  the  commonest  of  condiments. 
It  is  produced  by  the  acetous  fermentation  of  sac- 
charine solutions  and  fruit  juices,  such  as  cider  and 
wine.  Its  essential  ingredient  is  acetic  acid,  of  which 
ordinary  vinegar  contains  about  four  per  cent.  Com- 
mercial vinegars  vary  greatly  in  strength  ;  however, 
the  so-called  "proof"  vinegar  contains  4.6  per  cent, 
acetic  acid.  According  to  their  source  and  mode  of 
preparation,  common  vinegars  are  described  as  malt 
vinegar,  spirit  vinegar,  cider  vinegar,  and  wine  vine- 
gar. Aromatic  vinegars  are  artificially  flavored  and 
perfumed.  It  is  generally  believed  that  small  quanti- 
ties of  vinegar  may  aid  digestion  by  increasing  the 
solvent  power  of  juices  within  the  stomach.  Many 
albuminoid  matters  are  partially  soluble  in  dilute 
acetic  acid . 

Vinegar  from  fruit  juices  usually  possesses  a  peculiar 
aroma  indicative  of  its  source.  White  vinegar  is  with- 
out aroma;  it  is  a  simple  mixture  of  acetic  acid  and 
water,  and  may  be  cheaply  prepared  by  adding  pure 
acetic  acid  to  water  to  produce  the  required   degree  of 


332  DOMESTIC    SCIENCE. 

acidity.  If  the  absence  of  color  be  an  objection,  a 
very  rich  tint  may  be  imparted  by  adding  a  little  cara- 
mel or  burnt  sugar.  Occasionally  vinegar  is  adulter- 
ated with  sulphuric  acid  ;  this  is  an  injurious  addition, 
and  a  competent  chemist  will  readily  detect  the  presence 
of  the  poisonous  acid  in  any  sample. 

Pickles  are  prepared  by  treating  various  vegetable 
products  with  brine  and  vinegar.  They  are  used 
solely  as  condiments.  If  eaten  in  large  quantity, 
pickles  will  certainly  prove  of  detriment  to  the  body. 
Pickling  operations  should  be  conducted  in  vessels  of 
porcelain,  stoneware  or  glass  only.  Acetic  acid  will 
attack  metallic  vessels,  and  form  poisonous  salts.  The 
bright  tints  so  much  admired  in  bottled  pickles  are  fre- 
quently due  to  the  deadly  copper  acetate,  formed  by  the 
action  of  pickling  fluids  on  copper  or  brass  kettles 
used  in  the  process. 

Lemon,  and  Lime  Juices  are  sometimes  used  as 

substitutes  for  vinegar.  When  mi?:ed  with  water,  they 
form  agreeable  beverages.  Both  substances  are  rich 
in  citric  acid,  sometimes  containing  as  high  as  30 
grains  of  acid  to  the  fluid  ounce  of  juice.  A  moderate 
quantity  of  these  substances  is  of  decided  benefit  to 
the  body  ;  they  are  of  medicinal  effect  in  counteracting 
any  tendency  to  scorbutic  diseases.  By  the  use  of  lime 
juice,  scurvy  has  been  checked  among  Arctic  naviga- 
tors who  have   been  long   confined  to  a  salt  meat  diet. 

Certain  Essential   Oils  are  used  for  flavoring 

purposes;  such  are  oil  or  essence  of  lemon,  orange, 
vanilla,  nutmeg,  banana,  pine  apple,  etc.  In  large 
doses  all   of  these   substances   are  active  poisons,    but 


SOME    AUXILIARY    FOODS.  333 

the  amount  ordinarily  employed  is  so  very  small  that 
no  serious  result  need  be  feared  from  their  occasional 
use.  Many  of  the  essential  oils  are  largely  and  some 
injuriously  adulterated,  however. 

Spices  and  other  aromatic  compounds  are  also  in 
common  use  as  condiments.  Among  such  may  be 
named  pepper,  black  and  red  ;  mustard  and  cloves  in 
the  plain  state,  or  prepared  in  sauces ;  horse  radish, 
and  many  other  substances.  Savory  herbs  may  be 
advantageously  substituted  for  more  stimulating  con- 
diments ;  thyme,  parsley,  sage,  sweet  majoram,  and 
mint,  are  in  common  and  beneficial  use. 

Salt,  though  in  some  sense  a  condiment,  is  still  an 
essential  ingredient  of  food.*  It  has  received  atten- 
tion in  a  former  chapter.      (See  page   26  2.) 

Danger  from  Condiments.— Danger  attends  the 
frequent  eating  of  stimulating  condiments ;  the  diges- 
tive organs  may  be  so  habituated  to  the  presence  of 
such  substances,  that  plain  food  seems  insipid.  The 
general  effect  of  highly  seasoned  food  is  to  produce  an 
irritation  of  the  intestinal  tract,  with  strongly  marked 
nervous  affections.! 

♦"Hard  work  and  attendant  good  appetite  require  little  else 
than  common  salt  as  a  condiment,  which  should  be  plentifully 
used.  It  was  said  by  Plutarch  that  hunger  and  salt  were  the  only 
sauces  known  to  the  ancients,  and  the  very  word  'sauce,'  is 
derived  from  the  Latin  word  sulsus,  salted.'  " — McSherry. 

+  Dr.  Beaumont  says:  "Condiments,  particularly  those  of  the 
spicy  kinds,  are  not  essential  to  the  process  of  digestion,  in  a 
healthy  state  of  the  system.  They  afford  no  nutrition.  Though 
they  may  assist  the  action  of  a  debilitated  stomach  for  a  time, 
their  continual  use  never  fails  to  produce  a  weakness  of  that 
organ.  They  affect  it  as  alcohol  or  other  stimulants  do:— the 
present  relief  afforded  is  at  the  expense  of  future  suffering." 


334  DOMESTIC    SCIENCE. 

Certain  Artificial  Drinks  may  with  propriety 
be  classed  under  the  title  of  auxiliary  foods.  All 
beverages  other  than  water  or  milk,  may  be  so  re- 
garded ;  though  we  would  best  exclude  from  the  list 
alcoholic  liquors  of  all  kinds  ;  none  of  which,  from  a 
chemical  or  a  physiological  standpoint,  can  properly 
be  classed  as  foods,  except  by  reason  of  the  small  pro- 
portion of  sugar  and  extractive  matters  which  they 
contain.  Alcohol,  though  consisting  of  carbon, 
hydrogen,  and  oxygen,  is  not  digested  or  assimilated 
within  the  body.  Liebig,  the  noted  chemist,  declared 
that  the  small  quantity  of  flour,  which  can  be  picked 
up  upon  the  point  of  a  knife,  contains  more  nutriment 
than  two  gallons  of  the  best  beer. 

Tea  as  ordinarily  prepared,  is  an  infusion  of  the 
dried  leaves  of  the  tea  plant,  a  small  shrub  which  is 
grown  mostly  in  China.  Under  cultivation,  the  plant 
grows  from  three  to  six  feet  in  height,  and  reaches 
maturity  in  two  years ;  it  yields  three  crops  of  leaves 
per  year.  The  first  crop  of  the  season  furnishes  the 
youngest,  tenderest,  and  most  fragrant  leaves.  The 
tea  leaves  are  gathered  by  hand ;  while  fresh,  they 
possess  none  of  the  fragrance  of  dried  leaves.  They 
are  subjected  to  a  complicated  roasting  in  open  vessels 
with  frequent  shaking  and  rolling ;  by  this  process 
some  water  is  expelled,  the  color  of  the  leaves  is 
changed,  and  their  aromatic  properties  are  developed. 
The  difference  between  green  and  black  tea  is  mainly 
dependent  on  the  preparation,  though  some  choice  is 
indicated  as  to  the  species  best  suited  for  one  kind  or 
the  other. 


SOME    AUXILIARY    FOODS.  335 

Chemical  analysis  shows  tea  to  contain  a  volatile  oil, 
theine,  tannin,  and  gluten.  The  oil  of  tea  is  volatile, 
and  strongly  aromatic  ;  to  it  is  largely  due  the  flavor 
of  tea.  The  potent  properties  of  this  substance  are 
illustrated  by  the  fact  that  a  hundred  pounds  of  leaves 
contain  less  than  half  a  pound  of  the  oil.  Its  effect 
upon  the  human  system  is  shown  in  nervous  disor- 
ders ;  and  in  the  separated  state  it  is  known  to  be  a 
powerful  poison.  Tea  drinkers,  professional  tea- 
tasters,  and  especially  packers  of  tea  leaves,  are  subject 
to  headaches,  giddiness,  and  in  severe  cases  even 
paralysis.  Theine  is  a  white,  crystalized  solid  which 
may  be  readily  sublimed  from  dried  tea  leaves.  It 
belongs  to  the  chemical  family  of  alkaloids,  all  of 
which  are  of  a  poisonous  nature.  In  small  doses,  it 
stimulates  the  body,  and  to  its  action  is  due  the  de- 
ceptive feeling  of  increased  strength  to  the  habitual 
tea -drinker.  Teas  of  medium  quality  contain  from  2 
to  3  per  cent.,  and  exceptional  samples  have  shown 
even  6  per  cent,  of  the  alkaloid.  Tannin  is  the 
astringent  principle  of  tea ;  the  substance  is  so  named 
from  its  abundant  occurrence  in  oak  bark,  which  is 
used  in  tanning.  Tannin  and  tannic  acid  produce 
inky  infusions  with  water  containing  iron.  It  aids  in 
producing  the  stimulating  effect  which  usually  follows 
au  indulgence  in  tea  drinking.  Gluten  is  present  in 
tea  to  the  extent  of  20  to  25  per  cent.  As  the  sub- 
stance is  insoluble  in  water,  it  is  not  extracted  in  the 
infusion,  but  is  lost  in  the  dregs. 

The  infusion  of  tea  contains  the  soluble  matter,  in- 
cluding the  tannin  and  volatile  oil.     If  the  steeping  be 


336  DOMESTIC    SCIENCE. 

done  in  a  closed  vessel,  a  very  fragrant  liquid  results. 
The  tannin  is  extracted  after  long  steeping;  the  vola- 
tile oil,  however,  is  expelled  by  prolonged  heating;  to 
procure  at  once  a  fragrant  and  strong  infusion,  two 
lots  of  leaves  should  be  steeped, — one  for  a  few 
minutes  only,  the  other  for  a  longer  time ;  the  two 
infusions  should  then  be  mixed. 

Coffee  is  an  infusion  of  certain  roasted  seeds,  the 
commonest  being  derived  from  the  coffee  tree.  In  a 
cultivated  state  this  tree  reaches  a  height  of  6  to  10 
feet.  The  seeds  are  very  improperly  called  "  coffee 
beans"  and  "  coffee  berries."  The  best  quality  is 
Mocha  coffee,  then  follow,  in  order,  the  coffees  of 
Java,  East  India,  Ceylon,  and  Brazil.  Coffee  seeds 
contain  a  volatile  aromatic  oil.  This  is'  present  in 
such  small  quantity  that  50,000  pounds  of  the  coffee 
seeds  would  yield  but  one  pound  of  the  oil.  Payen 
says  the  oil  could  not  be  prepared  and  sold  at  a  lower 
cost  than  $500  an  ounce.  Coffee  seeds  contain  also 
gluten ;  an  alkaloid  known  as  caffeine,  now  supposed 
to  be  identical  with  theine,  and  an  astringent  principle 
caffeo -tannic  acid,  analogous  in  properties  to  the  cor- 
responding ingredients  of  tea. 

Tea  and  Coffee  Drinking1. — The  general  effect 

of  tea  and  coffee  is  to  produce  a  stimulation  of  the 
nervous  system,  which  is  followed  by  a  reactive  de- 
pression. Long  continued  indulgences  produce 
specific  derangements  to  which  the  name  "  tea  disease" 
has  been  applied.  The  custom  among  students  of 
drinking  coffee  to  keep  them  awake  is  suicidal.  The 
system  may  be   habituated   to   these   as   to   any   other 


SOME    AUXILIARY    FOODS.  33 

stimulants,  and  when  their  use  is  discontinued  serious 
discomfort  results.*  The  habit  is  an  enslaving  one ; 
it  makes  man  dependent  on  drugs  for  the  exercise  of 
his  powers.  Such  habits  are  cords  that  bind  mind  and 
body  in  the  discharge  of  their  functions.  The  sub- 
stances are  potent  medicines,  and  should  be  used  with 
great  wisdom.  As  indulgences  they  are  not  good  for 
the  body. 

Cocoa  and  Chocolate  are  prepared  from  the 
cocoa  or  cacao  seed,  which  is  produced  in  South 
America,  and  the  West  Indies.  These  seeds  are  par- 
ticularly rich  in  fatty  matter,  to  which  is  given  the 
name  cocoa  butter.  This  exists  in  the  bean  to  the 
extent  of  over  50  per  cent.  An  alkaloid  body  is  pre- 
sent in  the  beans;  this  is  called  theobromine  it  is 
similar  in  properties  to  theine.  The  ground  beans, 
sometimes  mixed  with  sugar,  and  often  fraudulently 
adulterated  with  starch  and  flour,  etc.,  compose  cocoa. 
If  the  product  be  flavored  and  seasoned,  it  is  called 
chocolate.  Cocoa  and  chocolate  as  prepared  for  the 
table,  are  not  mere  infusions,  but  rather  in  the  nature 
of  soups  or  gruels.  All  the  nutriment  of  the  solid 
therefore   enters   the   body.       All  the  prepared  cocoas 


*"I  recommend  tea  drinkers  who  desire  to  practically  investi- 
gate the  subject  for  themselves,  to  repeat  the  experiment  I  have 
made.  After  establishing  the  habit  of  taking  tea  at  a  particular 
hour,  suddenly  relinquish  it  altogether.  The  result  will  be  more 
or  less  unpleasant;  in  some  cases  seriously  so.  My  symptoms 
were  a  dull  headache  and  intellectual  sluggishness  during  the 
remainder  of  the  day, — and  if  compelled  to  do  any  brain  work, 
such  as  lecturing  or  writing,  I  did  it  badly.  This,  as  I  have  already 
said,  is  the  diseased  condition  induced  by  the  habit.  Th«se 
symptoms  vary  with  the  amount  of  the  customary  indulgence, 
and  the  temperament  of  the  individual."— Williams. 


338  DOMESTIC    SCIENCE. 

and  chocolates  of  the  market  are  largely  adulterated,* 
and  the  proportion  of  active  ingredients  introduced 
into  the  body  by  drinking  the  beverage  is  correspond- 
ingly diminished.  The  pure  cocoa  bean  would  exert 
stimulating  and  narcotic  effects  analogous  to  those 
resulting  from  the  use  of  tea  or  coffee. 


REVIEW. 

1.  What  is  meant  by  auxiliary  foods  ? 

2.  Define  "condiments." 

3.  Name  the  principal  condiments  in  common  use. 

4.  What  is  vinegar  ? 

5.  Describe  briefly  the  preparation  of  vinegar. 

6.  What  do    you   know    of   the     strength    of    commercial 
vinegars  ? 

7.  What  special  characteristic  is  possessed  by  fruit  vinegars? 

8.  Explain  the  preparation  of  pickles. 

9.  What  precautions  should  be  taken  as  to  the  material  of 
the  vessels  in  which  pickles  are  made  and  kept  ? 

10.  What  do  you  know  of  lemon  and  lime  juices  as  condiments 
or  as  ingredients  of  beverages  ? 

11.  Name  the  principal  essential  oils  used  as  flavors. 

12.  What  do  you  know  of  salt  as  a  condiment  ? 

13.  Name  the]  principal  artificial  drinks  that  are  used  as 
auxiliary  foods. 

14.  Describe  the  growth  and  preparation  of  tea. 

15.  What  do  you  know  of  the  chemical  composition  of  tea  ? 

16.  State  the  properties  of  the  volatile  oil  of  tea, 

*  The  common  adulterants  of  cocoa  are  often  of  a  disgusting 
Kind.  The  following  is  on  the  authority  of  Dr.  Youmans  who 
qiiotes  from  Xormandy :  "  I  have  known  cocoa  powder  made  out 
of  potato  starch  moistened  with  a  decoction  of  cocoa-nut  shells 
and  sweetened  with  molasses;  chocolate  made  of  the  same 
material  with  the  addition  of  tallow  and  ochre — a  coarse  paint.  I 
have  also  met  with  chocolate  in  which  hrick  |dust  or  red  ochre 
had  been  introduced  to  the  extent  of  12  per  cent." 


SOME    AUXILIARY    FOODS.  339 

17.  Of  theine. 

18.  Of  tannin. 

19.  State  what  you  know  of  the  growth  of  the  coffee  plant. 

20.  What  do  you  know  of  the  volatile  oil  of  coffee  ? 

21.  What  is  the  source  of  the  cocoa  of  commerce  ? 

22.  What  is  the  difference  between  cocoa  and  chocolate  ? 

23.  What  do  you  know  of  the  common  adulterants  of  cocoa  ? 

24.  State    the    general  physiological  effects  of  tea  or  coffee 
drinking. 


340  DOMESTIC    SCIENCE. 


CHAPTER    35. 

PRESERVATION    OF    FOOD    STUFFS. 

Decay  of  Organic  Matters.— All  organic  matters, 

to  which  class  of  substances  our  ordinary  food  stuffs 
belong,  easily  undergo  decay.  In  this  process  certain 
of  their  elements  are  separated  and  then  re -combined 
in  different  proportions,  producing  compounds  entirely 
unlike  the  original.  Were  it  not  for  such  ability  of 
ready  change,  easy  digestion  of  foods  would  be 
impossible,  for  this  bodily  process  is  one  of 
change  in  which  new  and  strange  products  are 
formed  from  the  elements  of  food.  With  nitro- 
genous compounds,  the  process  of  decomposition  is 
known  as  putrefaction,  and  the  products  are  usually 
disgusting  to  our  senses.  Decomposition  and  re -com- 
position changes  of  a  less  disagreeable  nature,  espec- 
ially such  as  occur  in  carbohydrates,  are  spoken  of  as 
fermentation.  From  very  early  times,  man  has  striven 
to  devise  a  method  of  preserving  food  by  artificial 
means,  so  as  to  prevent  these  destructive  changes. 
Let  us  first  consider  the  nature  of  the  decomposition 
process. 

Bacteria  and  Decay. — Whenever  putrefaction  of 
organic  matter  is  in  progress,  the  microscope  reveals 
within  the  substance  the  presence  of  many  tiny  forms  of 
life,  the  chief  appearances  of  which  are  shown  in 
figure  100.     These  tiny  organisms  have   received   the 


PRESERVATION    OF    FOOD    STUFFS. 


341 


generic  name  of  bacteria,  from  a  word   meaning  little 

rod  or  staff,  and  so    applied   because  of    the   rod -like 

shape     of    the    typical    and    commonest    form.       The 

bacteria    are    known    to    belong    to    the    kingdom    of 

plants,  and  to  the  order  of  fungi ;   they  are,  therefore, 

^      .    .  closelv  related  to  the  veast 

®<?>&<5>         <^  Qg  '  .      • 

plant.      A   discussion    has 

been  indulged  in  among 
scientists,  as  to  whether 
the  presence  of  bacteria  is 
the  cause  of  decay,  or  de- 
cay the  cause  of  bacteria 
being  present ;  we  may 
leave  the  contestants  to 
their  own  dispute  and  ac- 
cept these  facts,  which 
both  parties  admit,  that 
spontaneous  decay  of  or- 
ganic matter  is  not  known 
to  occur  unless  such  organ- 
isms are  present ;  and,  farther,  that  any  method  by 
which  these  tiny  structures  may  be  excluded  or  killed, 
will  arrest  or  prevent  putrefaction. 

Freezing"  constitutes  a  time -honored  mode  of  pre- 
serving food  substances.  It  is  well  known  that  decay 
is  more  rapid  in  summer  than  in  winter  ;  and  this  is 
perhaps  partly  due  to  the  inactivity  of  bacteria  at  low 
temperatures.  Perishable  foods  are  usually  kept  on 
ice ;  refrigerators  or  ice  boxes  are  now  in  common  use 
for  this  purpose.  Carcasses  of  sheep  and  cattle  are 
shipped   in   a  frozen  state    from    Australia    and  New 


Fig.  100. 

Bacteria. 
(Very  highly  magnified.) 


342  DOMESTIC    SCIENCE. 

Zealand  to  Europe,  and  the  meat  is  eaten  months  after 
the  time  of  death.*  Chemical  analysis  fails  to  reveal 
any  objectionable  properties  in  frozen  meat,  though 
practical  experience  demonstrates  a  great  superiority 
of  fresh  flesh  over  preserved  meats  of  any  kind. 

Canning",  Bottling1,  etc. — Food  stuffs  are  often 
preserved  by  hermetic  sealing  in  cases.  Meats  are 
usually  kept  in  cans  ;  fruits  in  bottles.  In  canning  or 
bottling,  the  food  material  is  placed  in  the  vessels  and 
heated  to  the  boiling  point  of  water,  in  order  to  des- 
troy the  bacteria  present ;  the  cans  are  then  securely 
closed  by  having  the  tops  soldered  in  place,  and  the 
bottles  are  closed  by  tightly  fitting  screw-lids.  If  the 
process  be  thorough,  all  bacterial  organisms  there 
present  being  killed,  and  others  prevented  from  gain- 
ing access,  no  decomposition  will  take  plaice.  It  has 
long  been  supposed  that  this  preservative  effect  is  due 
to  the  exclusion  of  air,  and  that  oxygen  is  the  chief 
agent  of  putrefactive  changes.  It  is  true  that  the 
chemical  changes  of  decay  are  processes  of  oxidation  ; 
but  that  spontaneous  decomposition  is  closely  as- 
sociated with  bacterial  life  is  equally  certain.  Prof. 
Tyndal  |and  other  eminent  experimenters  have  con- 
clusively shown  that  air  thoroughly  cleansed  from  all 

*  As  an  example  of  the  prolonged  preservation  of  flesh  through 
the  agency  of  ice,  consider  the  following:  "In  the  year  1799  a 
Siberian  fisherman  saw  a  rounded  mass  projecting  from  an  ice 
bank  near  the  mouth  of  the  rive  Lena.  The  summer  weather 
so  thawed  it  year  after  year,  that  in  1803  the  enveloping  ice  was  all 
melted  and  the  nucleus  of  this  mound-like  projection  was  found 
to  be  an  enormous  elephant  (known  as  the  mammoth).  Though 
it  had  been  there  not  merely  centuries,  but  ages,  it  was  perfectly 
preserved,  so  that  dogs  and  wolves  fed  upon  it  as  upon  fresh 
meat."  Hooker. 


PRESERVATION    OF    FOOD    STUFFS.  343 

germs  of  life  may  be  freely  admitted  to  perishable 
articles  without  causing  decomposition.  Air  may  be 
so  cleansed  in  many  ways,  by  being  passed  through  a' 
heated  tube,  thus  burning  to  death  the  bacterial  or- 
ganisms ;  or  by  thoroughly  washing  by  means  of  a 
spray  of  water,  by  which  the  organisms  will  be 
stopped  ;  or  by  being  strained  through  a  thick  filter  of 
cotton  fibre.  The  writer  can  personally  vouch  for  the 
reliability  of  the  method  of  securing  bottled  fruits  by 
tying  tightly  a  thick  layer  of  cotton  batting  over  the 
mouth  in  place  of  the  ordinary  screw-top.  Through 
this  fibrous  cap  the  air  can  make  its  way  with  ease, 
but  all  solid  particles,  both  living  and  dead,  will  be 
stopped.  As  bottles  and  cans  of  fruit  are  ordinarily 
sealed  at  the  boiling  temperature,  there  is  a  shrinkage 
of  the  contents  as  cooling  proceeds,  and  a  consequent 
tendency  of  the  outer  air  to  force  an  entrance.  This 
outside  pressure  will  depress  the  top  of  a  well -sealed 
can ;  but  if  fermentative  changes  have  taken  place 
within,  the  accumulation  of  gas  will  cause  a  bulging 
of  the  top  and  bottom.  Beware  of  such  over-filled 
cans,  their  contents  are  spoiled. 

Mineral  Poisons  in  Canned  Goods.— The  use  of 

canned  foods  is  fraught  with  danger  from  the  fact  that 
poisonous  compounds  are  often  formed  by  the  action 
of  the  juices  upon  the  metal  of  the  can  ;  and  such  are 
sometimes  derived  from  the  solder  and  the  soldering 
fluids.  Tinned  ware  is  often  adulterated  with  lead  ; 
and  cases  of  lead -poisoning  are  not  infrequent  among 
the  users  of  canned  goods.  Zinc  chloride  (butter  of 
zinc)  is  largely  used  as  a  soldering  medium,  and  some 


344  DOMESTIC    SCIENCE. 

of  this  poisonous  substance  occasionally  becomes 
mixed  with  the  contents  of  the  can. 

Drying5,  an  effectual  method  of  preservation,  ad- 
mits of  application  to  meats,  vegetables,  and  fruits. 
Appearance  indicates,  and  analysis  proves,  that  food- 
stuffs in  their  natural  condition  all  contain  a  large 
proportion  of  water.  The  bacteria  of  putrefaction 
cannot  thrive  unless  freely  supplied  with  water;  dry- 
ness renders  them  inert,  and  is  an  effectual  hindrance 
to  their  destructive  growth.  Succulent  vegetables  and 
fruits  by  drying  lose  many  of  their  flavoring  in- 
gredients, though  but  little  real  nutriment  is  sacrificed. 
To  be  prepared  for  the  table,  dried  foods  should  be 
soaked  in  water,  that  they  may  absorb  the  proportion 
of  liquid  formerly  lost. 

Chemical  Antiseptics  are  also  used.  But  for  the 
very  small  quantities  of  antiseptic  chemicals  necessary 
to  produce  the  desired  effect,  great  danger  would  attend 
their  use>  for  none  of  them  are  of  themselves  con- 
ducive to  health. 

Common  Salt  is  one  of  the  most  efficient  among 
these.  If  dry  salt  be  added  to  fresh  meat,  a  brine 
soon  forms  ;  this  is  due  to  the  strong  attraction  which 
salt  possesses  for  water,  whereby  it  robs  the  meat  of 
its  juices  ;  the  meat  in  itself  becomes  in  reality  dryer, 
though  outwardly  it  appears  in  the  very  opposite  con- 
dition. That  salted  meat  does  not  putrefy  is  due 
mainly  to  the  abstraction  of  water ;  though  salt  itself 
in  large  quantities  is  fatal  to  bacterial  existence.  Much 
of  the  mineral  matter  of  the  meat  is  dissolved  with 
the  juices  in  the  brine  during  the  salting  process  ;  and 


PRESERVATION  OF  FOOD  STUFFS.         345 

meat  so  preserved  is  consequently  deficient  in  these 
essentials.  The  eating  of  salted  flesh,  if  long  con- 
tinued, may  produce  serious  derangement  of  health. 
Scurvy  is  a  common  disease  among  sailors  who  are 
fed  on  such  meat. 

Sugar  is  also  a  valuable  antiseptic ;  it  is  used  in 
pickling  and  curing  meats,  but  more  especially  in  the 
preserving  of  fruits.  By  dissolving  in  the  fruit  juices, 
and  thus  converting  them  into  syrups,  sugar  exercises 
a  drying  effect  upon  the  tissues,  and  so  retards  de- 
composition ;  and  farther,  the  mere  presence  of  sugar 
in  abundance  prevents  the  growth  of  bacteria.  In 
dilute  syrups,  fermentation  may  be  set  up,  unless  the 
containing  vessels  are  secured  by  hermetic  sealing 
against  the  possible  entrance  of  germ-laden  air,  as  is 
done  in  the  case  of  bottled  and  canned  fruits. 

Alcohol  preserves  organic  tissues  immersed  in  it, 
by  uniting  with  the  constituent  water,  and  thus  dry- 
ing the  solid  parts.  A  little  strong  alcohol  poured 
upon  the  white  of  an  egg  converts  the  albumen  into  a 
tough,  leathery  mass,  which  analysis  shows  to  be  very 
deficient  in  water  as  compared  with  the  liquid  white ; 
and  by  the  process  the  alcohol  is  correspondingly 
diluted.  Alcohol  exerts  a  destructive  effect  upon 
bacterial  organisms  that  may  find  entrance  to  it,  and 
thus  it  tends  to  prevent  putrefactive  changes. 

Vinegar  checks  decomposition  of  organic  matter. 
Its  general  properties  and  uses  have  been  already 
dwelt  upon.  Fish  and  meats  are  sometimes  pre- 
served in  oil.  This  medium  prevents  the  access  of  air 
to    the    immersed    substances,    and    thus    effectually 


346  DOMESTIC    SCIENCE. 

guards  against  the  entrance  of  germs  of  decomposi- 
tion. 

Creosote  is  a  powerful  antiseptic ;  a  very  weak 
solution  of  the  substance,  if  poured  upon  meat,  will 
prevent  decomposition  of  the  latter  even  in  the  hottest 
weather.  Creosote  is  the  chief  of  the  irritating  con- 
stituents of  smoke,  and  the  efficacy  of  smoke-drying 
as  a  means  of  preservation  is  mostly  due  to  the  influ- 
ence of  this  substance.  The  amount  of  creosote  nec- 
essary for  preservation  is  extremely  small,  else  great 
danger  would  attend  its  use,  for  the  substance  is  a 
strong  poison. 

Various  preparations  of  boric  acid  are  now  used  as 
antiseptics ;  principally  for  preserving  meats.  The 
acid  is  introduced  into  the  circulatory  system  of  ani- 
mals before  death  so  that  the  flowing  blood  may  dis- 
tribute the  material  throughout  the  body.*  The 
so-called  "glacialine,"  now  sold  in  packages  and 
warranted  to  be  a  safe  preservative,  consists  mainly  of 


*Mattieu  Williams  thus  describes  the  process  and  illustrates  its 
efficacy:  "The  animal  is  rendered  insensible,  either  by  a  stun- 
ning blow,  or  by  an  anaesthetic,  with  the  heart  still  beating.  A 
vein,  usually  the  jugular,  is  opened,  and  a  small  quantity  of  blood 
let  out.  Then  a  corresponding  quantity  of  a  solution  of  boric 
acid  raised  to  blood  heat  is  made  to  flow  into  the  vein  from  a  ves- 
sel raised  to  a  suitable  height  above  it.  The  action  of  the  heart 
carries  this  through  all  the  capillary  vessels  into  every  part  of 
the  body  of  the  animal.  *  *  *  After  the  completion  of 
this  inoculation,  the  animal  is  bled  to  death  in  the  usual  manner. 
From  three  to  four  ounces  of  boric  acid  is  sufficient  for  a  sheep  of 
average  weight,  and  much  of  this  comes  away  with  the  final 
bleeding.  On  April  2nd,  1884, 1  made  a  hearty  meal  on  the  roasted 
boiled  and  stewed  flesh  of  a  sheep  that  was  killed  on  February 
8th,  the  carcass  being  in  the  meantime  in  the  basement  of  the 
Society  of  Art<.  It  was  perfectly  fresh,  and  without  any  percepti- 
ble flavor  of  the  boric  acid  ;  very  tender  and  full  flavored  as  fresh 
meat." 


PRESERVATION    OF    FOOD    STUFFS.  347 

borax.  A  small  amount  of  borax  added  to  milk 
hinders  fermentation  and  thus  prevents  for  a  time  the 
souring  of  the  liquid. 

Salicylic  acid  is  growing  in  favor  as  a  preservative 
of  fruits  and  vegetables.  The  use  of  this  has  been 
proved  by  experience  to  be  detrimental.  The  substance 
is  a  potent  medicine,  and  when  used  continuously  or 
in  large  quantity  it  is  a  poison.  Many  of  the  preserv- 
ative powders  and  solutions  now  offered  for  sale  con  - 
sist  mainly  of  salicylic  acid,  and  should  be  avoided. 

Preservation  Of  Eggs. — Eggs  may  be  preserved 
by  varnishing  the  porous  shells,  so  as  to  prevent  the 
entrance  of  air.  By  coating  the  exterior  with  an 
impervious  layer,  the  natural  appearance  of  the  inner 
parts  may  be  preserved.  This  may  be  effected  by 
dipping  the  eggs  in  a  prepared  solution  of  gum,  or  in 
melted  fat  or  paraffine.  They  should  then  be  carefully 
packed.  Dr.  Youmans  kept  eggs  in  good  condition 
for  upwards  of  a  year,  by  packing  them  in  salt,  small 
ends  downward  ;  after  that  time  they  had  lost  nearly 
half  their  weight,  but  had  not  putrefied ;  the  interior 
of  the  egg,  however,  had  become  thick  and  shrunken. 
Among  recent  methods,  that  of  subjecting  eggs  to  the 
action  of  sulphur  dioxide,  produced  by  the  burning  of 
sulphur,  has  produced  good  results. 


REVIEW. 

1.  Show  the  great  liability  of  food  stuffs  to  undergo  decay. 

2.  Define  "putrefaction,"  and  "fermentation." 

3.  What  does  the  microscope  teach  us  as  to  the  nature  of 
such  decomposition  processes? 


34  8  DOMESTIC    SCIENCE. 

4.  Explain  the  effect  of  freezing  in  preventing  decay. 

5.  Illustrate  the  practical  use  of  this  mode  of  preservation. 

6.  Explain   the    effect    of   hermetic   sealing  in   preventing 
decay. 

7.  Explain  why  pure  thoroughly  filtered  air  will  not  induce 
decay  in  perishable  articles. 

8.  What  practical    application  may  be  made  in  preserving 
fruit  ? 

9.  Describe  the  process  of  canning  fruits,  vegetables  and  the 
like. 

10.  What  dangers  attend  the  use  of  canned  goods  ? 

11.  Explain  the  effect  of  drying  in  preserving  foods. 

12.  What  is  a  chemical  antiseptic  ? 

13.  Name  the  principal  chemical  antiseptics. 

14.  Explain  the  preserving  effect  of  salt. 

15.  Of  sugar. 

16.  Of  alcohol. 

17.  Of  oil. 

18.  Of  creosote. 

19.  Of  boric  acid. 

20.  Of  salicylic  acid. 


PART  IV. 


CLEANSING    AGENTS;    AND  POISONS    AND 
THEIR  ANTIDOTES. 


CLEANSING    AGENTS.  351 


CHAPTER     36. 

CLEANSING    AGENTS. 

Water  as  a  Cleansing  Agent.— The  great  sol- 
vent power  possessed  by  water  renders  that  liquid  par- 
ticularly useful  as  a  cleansing  medium,  and  the  need 
of  such  a  substance  must  be  apparent  to  all.  The 
furniture  of  the  house,  the  utensils  of  the  cook-room, 
the  clothing  of  the  body,  and  especially  the  skin  itself, 
all  call  for  periodical  washings.  Though  water  has  ap- 
propriately been  termed  the  "universal  solvent,"  it  pos- 
sesses widely  varying  dissolving  powers  for  different 
substances  ;  thus,  a  pinch  of  sugar  or  of  salt  will  dissolve 
readily  in  a  goblet  of  water,  whereas  a  like  quantity 
of  sand  may  remain  apparently  undissolved  for  an  in- 
definite time,  and  for  oily  matters  water  exhibits  pos- 
itive repulsion.  Yet  very  delicate  chemical  analysis 
shows  that  some  portion  even  of  sand  and  of  oil  may 
be  dissolved  by  water.  As  a  rule,  the  solvent  power 
of  water  is  favored  by  heat;  the  use  of  hot  water 
for  laundry  and  house  cleansing  is  therefore  indicated. 

Alkalies  as  Cleansing  Agents. — A  greatly  in- 
creased solvent  effect  is  produced  by  adding  to  the  water 
certain  chemical  substances,  prominent  among  which  are 
the  alkalies,  potash,  soda,  and  ammonia.  From  very 
early  times,  people  have  been  in  the  habit  of  using 
wood  ashes  as  an  aid  in  washing  clothes ;  the  effective 
ingredient    of    the   ashes    being  potassium    carbonate 


352  DOMESTIC    SCIENCE. 

(commonly  called  "potash,"  because  prepared  from 
the  ashes  of  fires  used  in  heating  the  cooking  pots). 
A  strong  solution  of  potash,  or  of  either  of  the  other 
alkalies  named,  possesses  strongly  corrosive  powers  ; 
only  very  dilute  solutions  can  therefore  be  used  for 
ordinary  cleansing  purposes,  lest  while  removing  the 
impurities  the  fabrics  and  objects  themselves  be  in- 
jured. 

Soaps. — Experience  has  taught  that  it  is  better  to 
restrain  the  corroding  ardor  of  the  alkalies  by  first 
combining  them  with  fats  so  as  to  form  soaps.  Ordi- 
nary fats  and  fixed  oils  consist  each  of  two  main 
ingredients,  viz.,  glycerine  and  an  acid,  the  latter 
commonly  called  a  fatty  acid.  When  heated  with 
strong  alkalies,  fats  readily  decompose,  liberating  their 
glycerine,  while  the  fatty  acids  unite  with  the  alkalies 
to  form  salts.  Thus,  fats  containing  olein,  if  heated 
with  soda,  would  form  glycerine  and  sodium  oleate ; 
palmitin  and  stearin,  the  other  two  common  fats,  if 
similarly  treated,  would  form  sodium  palmitate  and 
sodium  stearate ;  if  potash  were  used  as  the  alkali, 
potassium  oleate,  palmitate,  or  stearate  would  be 
formed.  These  compounds  of  alkalies  and  fatty  acids 
are  soaps.  Most  soaps  dissolve  in  water,  producing 
very  viscid  solutions,  which  when  agitated  readily  en- 
tangle air,  producing  lathers.  When  used  with  hard 
waters,  the  alkali  in  the  soap  is  exchanged  for  the 
lime  or  magnesia  of  the  water,  and  thus  soaps  of  lime 
or  magnesia  are  formed  ;  these  are  insoluble  in  water, 
and  rise  to  the  surface  as  scum. 

Soap-making". — The  chemical  process  of  forming 


CLEANSING    AGENTS.  353 

soap  by  decomposing  fats  through  the  agency  of  alka- 
lies, is  known  as  saponification  ;  it  may  be  watched 
and  studied  at  any  soap -boiling  establishment.  The 
alkalies  used  in  soap  making  are  usually  the  hydrates 
of  the  metals ;  these,  from  their  great  corrosive 
powers,  are  called  caustic  alkalies.  The  soap  in  form- 
ing dissolves  in  the  water  present ;  as  the  boiling  con- 
tinues much  of  the  water  is  evaporated,  the  soap  then 
separates  from  solution  and  rises  to  the  surface ;  this 
is  removed,  shaped  in  molds,  and  allowed  to  partially 
dry  before  it  is  used.  If  caustic  soda  be  used  as  the 
saponifying  alkali,  the  soap  may  be  more  advan- 
tageously separated  by  adding  common  salt  to  the 
soap  solution,  whereby  a  strong  brine  is  formed, 
which  coagulates  the  soap  and  causes  its  ready  separa- 
tion from  the  water.  This  "salting  out"  is  not  prac- 
ticable in  the  making  of  potash  soaps,  because  the  salt 
would  decompose  the  potassium  compound,  forming  a 
soda  soap. 

Soaps— Hard  and  Soft.— There  is  great  differ- 
ence between  the  soaps  made  from  these  two  common 
alkalies.  Caustic  potash  is  highly  deliquescent ;  that 
is  to  say.  it  possesses  a  great  thirst  for  water,  and  so 
keeps  the  soaps  formed  by  it  in  a  partially  liquid  state  ; 
from  such  soaps  the  glycerine  cannot  be  well  separ- 
ated, this  adds  to  the  softness  of  the  soap.  Potash 
soaps  are  always  soft  soaps ;  soda  on  the  other  hand 
forms  hard  soaps.  The  consistency  of  the  soap  de- 
pends in  some  degree  upon  the  fats  used,  though  this 
condition  is  mostly  influenced  by  the  alkali ;  thus,  hard 
tallow  will  produce  a  firmer  soap   than   will  olive  oil ; 


354  DOMESTIC    SCIENCE. 

yet  an  oil  with  soda  will  saponify  to  a  comparatively 
hard  soap,  while  solid  tallow  with  potash  will  produce 
a  semi -liquid  soap. 

Fats  Used  in  Soap  Making". — Among  the  com- 
mon fatty  bodies  used  in  the  preparation  of  soap  may 
be  named  tallow,  lard,  palm  oil,  olive  oil,  cotton- 
seed oil,  cocoa-nut  oil,  for  hard  soaps;  and  fish  oil, 
linseed  oil,  and  marrow  for  soft  soaps.  Certain  fine 
grade  toilet  soaps  are  made  of  almond  oil  and  sperma- 
ceti. Cocoa-nut  oil  is  peculiar  among  fats,  it  being 
unaffected  by  weak  alkalies,  but  readily  saponifiable 
by  strong  alkalies ;  the  resulting  soap  is  soluble  in 
brine, and, consequently, cannot  be  separated  from  water 
in  the  course  of  manufacture  by  "  salting  out."  The 
oil  is  heated  to  a  low  temperature  only,  the  lye  is 
then  stirred  in,  and  saponification  takes  place  at  once. 
Cocoa-nut  oil  soap  lathers  with  salt  water;  it  is 
therefore  valuable  for  use  at  sea,  and  is  known  as 
marine  soap. 

Colored  Soaps. — Common  yellow  soaps  contain 
resin ;  other  tints  are  usually  produced  by  special 
coloring  matters.  The  mottled  appearance  of  some 
soaps  is  due  to  the  presence  of  insoluble  me- 
tallic oxides,  which  are  stirred  into  the  soap  as  it 
hardens.  Transparent  soaps  are  produced  by  dissolv- 
ing good  hard  soap  in  alcohol,  then  evaporating  the 
solution  till  a  clear  jelly  is  obtained  ;  such  soaps  are 
usually  pure  and  good,  though  they  waste  rapidly  and 
are  costly.  True  Castile  soap  is  made  from  olive  oil 
and  soda ;  the  color  is  due  to  metallic  oxides  stirred 
into  the  mass.     Many   imitations  of  Castile   soap   are 


CLEANSING    AGENTS.  355 

now  made  from  common  fats.  Glycerine  soaps  con- 
sist of  a  mixture  of  hard  soap  and  glycerine ;  the 
latter  substance  in  small  quantity  only ;  an  excess  of 
glycerine  causes  the  soap  to  soften  and  gives  but  weak 
lathering  properties,  whereas  a  small  amount  of 
glycerine  renders  the  lather  tenacious  and  persistent. 

Impure  Soaps. — The  poorer  grades  of  soaps  are 
sometimes  made  from  very  impure  fats ;  in  such  the 
microscope  has  revealed  the  presence  of  bits  of  bone, 
half-decayed  areolar  tissue,  and  even  pus  cells;  very 
serious  results  may  follow  the  use  of  soaps  of  this 
sort,  from  the  poisonous  matter  being  absorbed 
through  the  skin.  Such  foul  accompaniments,  how- 
ever, are  comparatively  rare  ;  the  chief  inconvenience 
attending  the  use  of  poorly  made  soaps  lies  in  the 
excess  of  free  alkali  which  they  contain.  The  smarting 
sensation  following  the  use  of  such  soaps  on  the  skin 
is  caused  by  the  solvent  action  of  the  free  alkali ; 
relief  may  be  found  through  the  application  of  some 
verp  dilute  acid,  such  as  vinegar,  or  lemon  juice. 

Adulterated  Soaps. — Many  soaps  are  largely 
adulterated,  though  most  of  the  additions  are  com- 
paratively harmless.  The  commonest  adulterants  are 
fuller's  earth,  starch,  and  soluble  silicates.  Sodium 
silicate  enables  soap  with  which  it  is  mixed  to  absorb 
a  large  quantity  of  water,  and  so  greatly  increases  the 
weight;  though,  as  the  substance  itself  is  a  harmless 
detergent,  the  ill  effects  of  its  introduction  are  some- 
what modified. 

Washing1    Compounds.— With    some    soaps    a 

quantity  of  fine  sand   or  other  hard  insoluble  powder 


356  '  DOMESTIC    SCIENCE. 

is  incorporated  ;  this  by  its  abraiding  action  aids  the 
cleansing  operations.  Most  washing  compounds  are 
partially  dried  and  finely  divided  soaps ;  all  such 
substances,  as  also  common  "washing  powder," 
contain  a  great  excess  of  alkali.  "Washing  fluids'' 
are  mere  solutions  of  the  caustic  alkalies,  soda  and 
potash  ;  such  are  of  advantage  where  very  hard  waters 
are  used,  though  such  excess  of  alkali  is  generally 
iniurious  to  the  skin,  as  also  to  most  fabrics  submitted 
to  its  action.  When  soap  dissolves  in  water,  some 
of  its  alkali  is  set  free ;  this  combines  in  the  washing 
process  with  the  oily  matters  of  the  dirt,  and  by 
saponifying  such  renders  them  miscible  in  water. 

Ammonia. — Besides  soap,  and  the  free  alkalies, 
potash  and  soda,  which  are  the  commonest  cleansing 
agents,  aqua  ammonia  is  also  largely  employed.  This 
should  be  used  only  when  greatly  diluted  with  water. 
With  oily  matter  it  forms  a  soapy  fluid,  which  is 
soluble  in  water;  hence  the  value  of  ammonia  for 
removing  grease  from  cloth,  etc.  Water  containing  a 
tablespoonful  of  ammonia  to  the  gallon  is  an  excel- 
lent wash  for  woodwork,  and  such  a  mixture  is  fre- 
quently applied  to  carpets  for  the  purpose  of  brighten- 
ing their  colors. 

Other  Solvents  for  FatS.— Besides  ammonia, 
already  mentioned,  spirits  of  turpentine,  camphene 
(rectified  turpentine),  and  benzine  (gasoline),  are 
also  efficient  solvents  for  most  fixed  oils ;  they  are 
therefore  useful  in  removing  grease  from  clothing. 


CLEANSING    AGENTS.  357 


REVIEW. 


1.  Show  the  value  of  water  as  a  cleansing  agent. 

2.  By  what  means  may  the  solvent  powers  of  water  be  in- 
creased. 

3.  What  is  soap  ? 

4.  Describe  the  general  method  of  making  soap. 

5.  Explain  the  cleansing  action  of  soap. 

6.  What  is  the  scum  formed  by  soap  when  acted  upon  by 
hard  water  ? 

7.  Explain  the  process  of  saponification. 

8.  Explain  the  difference  between  hard  and  soft  soaps. 

9.  Name  the  principal  fats  used  in  making  soaps. 

10.  What  do  you  know  of  Castile  soap  ? 

11.  Of  glycerine  soaps  ? 

12.  Show  the  dangers  of  using  soap  made  of  impure  fats. 

13.  What  do  you  know  of    the  composition  and    action  of 
washing  powders  ? 

14.  Explain  the  cleansing  action  of  ammonia. 

15.  Name  the  common  cleansing  agents  with  which  you  are 
acquainted. 


358  DOMESTIC    SCIENCE. 


CHAPTER     37. 

BLEACHING. 

Sun-Bleaching1. — It  is  often  found  desirable  to 
modify  or  to  remove  the  natural  colors  of  textile 
goods  ;  the  process  of  whitening  such  fabrics  is  known 
as  bleaching.*  It  has  long  been  an  art  among  men, 
they  having  learned  its  fundamental  principles  from 
observing  certain  operations  in  Nature.  Light  and  air 
are  universal  bleaching  agents. 

The  earliest  processes  of  artificial  bleaching  consisted 
in  exposing  the  colored  fabrics  to  light  and  air.  This 
was  accomplished  by  spreading  the  goods  on  grass 
plats  in  the  open  sunshine,  and  by  occasionally  wetting 
them  if  dews  or  rain  did  not  afford  sufficient  moisture. 
The  explanation  of  the  whitening  process  so  con- 
ducted is  simple  as  tar  as  we  understand  it ;  the 
oxygen  of  the  air  unites  with  the  organic  compounds 
constituting  the  coloring  matters,  thus  changing  their 
composition  with  consequent  loss  of  their  property  of 
color.  This  operation  is  most  applicable  to  cottons  and 
linens.  Under  the  best  conditions  sun -bleaching  is  a 
slow  process ;  in  Holland  where  the  art  was  most 
highly  developed,  the  bleaching  required  for  its  com- 
pletion  eight  or   nine  months  ;   and   oftentimes  if  the 

*  The  old  English  name  for  bleachers  is  "  whitesters,"  or  "whit- 
sters;"  it  fully  expresses  the  nature  of  their  occupation. 


BLEACHING.  359 

season  were  cold  and  wet  the  fabrics  were  injured  by 
the  continual  exposure.  The  Dutch  mode  of  pro- 
cedure in  bleaching,  consisted  of  treating  the  cloth  for 
a  week  with  caustic  alkali  or  lye;  then  came  an  im- 
mersion in  buttermilk,  and  then  the  many  months' 
exposure  to  sunlight  and  dew.  The  large  space  needed 
for  the  process  gave  to  bleaching  establishments  the 
common  name  of  "bleach-fields." 

Chemists  have  discovered  several  substances  that 
possess  strong  bleaching  powers.  Of  these,  chlorine 
and  sulphur  dioxide  are  among  the  chief;  and  they  are 
the  ones  that  are  best  adapted  for  domestic  applica- 
tion. 

Chlorine  as  a  Bleaching'  Agent.— Chlorine  is  a 

gas,  yellowish  green  in  color,  and  of  penetrating, 
strongly  suffocating  odor.  It  is  possessed  of  remark- 
ably strong  chemical  affinity  for  other  elements,  and 
will  often  decompose  other  compounds  to  form  with 
the  elements  combinations  of  its  own.  Upon  this 
property  depends  the  value  of  chlorine  as  a  bleaching 
agent,  and,  as  will  subsequently  be  seen,  its  efficacy  as 
a  disinfectant  also.  The  tinted  petal  of  a  flower,  a 
green  leaf,  or  a  piece  of  cloth  dyed  with  vegetable 
colors,  may  be  readily  whitened  by  exposure  to  the 
gas.  To  demonstrate,  place  in  a  wide -mouth  bottle  a 
little  chloride  of  lime; — this  substance  is  a  convenient 
source  of  chlorine,  and  is  commonly  known  as 
"bleaching  powder;"  pour  upon  it  a  little  dilute 
acid, — -muriatic  acid  is  best ; — then  quickly  cover  the 
mouth  of  the  jar  with  a  plate  of  glass.  The  vessel 
will  soon  become  filled  with  the  green  gas, — chlorine ; 


360  DOMESTIC    SCIENCE. 

if  you  desire  to  test  its  odor,  do  so  cautiously,  for  if 
inhaled  in  quantity  it  produces  painful  and  injurious 
spasms.  Suspend  in  the  upper  part  of  the  vessel  some 
bits  of  colored  calico,  and  a  colored  flower, — all  of 
which  must  be  moistened ;  the  colors  disappear  with 
magical  quickness. 

Another  pretty  demonstration  of  the  decolorizing 
action  of  chlorine  consists  in  conducting  the  gas  or 
pouring  chlorine  water  into  red  ink,  colored  wine,  in- 
fusion of  red  cabbage,  or  of  indigo ;  the  tints  almost 
instantly  disappear.  Printers'  black  ink  is  not  so 
affected ;  as  its  color  is  due  to  finely  divided  carbon 
(lampblack),  which  is  not  eager  to  form  combinations 
with  other  elements.  Dry  substances  are  not  whitened 
by  chlorine,  and  this  fact  is  a  key  to  an  understanding 
of  the  bleaching  process.  Chlorine  possesses  a  strong 
affinity  for  hydrogen,  so  strong  indeed  as  to  readily 
take  the  hydrogen  from  water,  thus  leaving  the  oxygen 
free ;  this  oxygen  in  its  nascent  or  freshly  liberated 
state  eagerly  unites  with  the  organic  coloring  com- 
pounds, and,  as  was  explained  in  the  case  of  sun- 
bleaching,  robs  them  of  color.  So  that  chlorine  is 
not  the  true  bleacher  after  all.  Oxygen  is  the  efficient 
color  destroyer,  the  chlorine  simply  liberates  the  oxy- 
gen from  its  combination  in  water.  Thus  there  is 
great  similarity  between  the  processes  of  sun -bleach- 
ing and  "chlorine-bleaching:"  each  is  a  result  of  oxi- 
dation. 

The  bleaching  operation  may  be  carried  too  far ;  for 
if  after  the  coloring  matters  have  been  acted  upon 
chlorine  be  still  allowed  to  decompose  the  water  con- 


BLEACHING.  361 

tained  within  the  pores  of  the  cloth,  the  energetic 
oxygen  will  attack  the  textile  fibers  themselves,  and 
this  will  rot  the  fabrics.  Exposure  to  gaseous  chlorine 
is  very  apt  to  partially  destroy  the  fabrics ;  a  more 
practical  method,  and  the  one  most  commonly  adopted, 
consists  in  immersing  the  goods  to  be  bleached  in  a 
solution  of  chloride  of  lime ;  they  should  be  kept  in 
the  bath  several  hours, — sometimes  days  are  required  ; 
they  are  then  to  be  removed,  and  if  the  whitening  be 
not  satisfactory  they  should  be  placed  in  a  tub  of 
acidified  water  ;  the  acid  will  liberate  chlorine  in  quan- 
tity from  the  bleaching  powder  within  the  pores ;  the 
acid  treatment  must  be  carefully  watched,  lest  it  result 
injuriously  to  the  goods.* 

Sulphur  Dioxide  in  Bleaching1.— Colors  bleached 

through  the  agency  of  chlorine  cannot  be  restored,  the 
pigment  having  been  destroyed.  Chlorine -bleaching  is 
not  applicable  to  straw,  wool  or  silk.  For  these,  sulphur 
dioxide  is  employed  as  a  whitener.  This  gas  may  be 
produced  by  burning  sulphur  in  air  ;  it  is  colorless, 
and  produces  an  intensely   irritating  effect  within  the 

*  "  A  very  elegant  application  of  chlorine  to  bleaching  purposes 
is  made  in  the  printing  of  bandanna  handkerchiefs.  The  white 
spots  which  constitute  their  peculiarity  are  thus  produced.  First 
of  all,  the  whole  fabric  is  dyed  of  one  uniform  tint,  and  dried. 
Afterwards,  many  layers  of  these  handkerchiefs  are  pressed  to- 
gether between  lead  plates,  perforated  with  holes  conformable  to 
the  pattern  which  is  desired  to  appear.  Chlorine  solution  is  now 
poured  upon  the  upper  plate,  and  finds  access  to  the  interior 
through  the  perforations.  By  reason  of  the  great  pressure  upon 
the  mass,  the  solution  cannot,  however,  extend  laterally  further 
than  the  limits  of  the  aperture?,  whence  it  follows  that  the 
bleaching  agent  is  localized  to  the  desired  extent,  and  figures 
corresponding  in  shape  and  size  to  the  perforations  are  bleached 
white  upon  the  dark  ground."  Faraday. 

12 


362  DOMESTIC    SCIENCE. 

respiratory  passages.  Like  chlorine,  it  is  soluble  in 
water,  and  its  solution  possesses  the  essential  proper- 
ties of  the  gas.  Its  bleaching  powers  may  be  prettily 
illustrated  by  holding  a  moist  red  rose  over  a  bit  of 
burning  sulphur  ;  a  lighted  match  held  beneath  the 
flower  is  often  effective.  The  process  of  sulphur- 
bleaching  is  conducted  by  moistening  the  articles  and 
suspending  them  in  closed  chambers  in  which  sulphur 
is  being  burned.  A  large  box  or  an  inverted  tub  may 
be  used  as  a  bleachiug  chamber.  The  moistening  of 
the  goods  is  to  aid  the  absorption  of  the  gas.  The  col- 
oring matters  so  bleached  are  not  in  reality  destroyed  ; 
the  union  between  them  and  sulphur  dioxide  is  an 
unstable  one,  and  the  colors  are  after  a  time  restored 
in  part.  Flannels  that  have  been  bleached  with  sul- 
phur dioxide  often  regain  their  color  when  washed 
with  alkaline  soaps.  Certain  chemicals — e.  g.  sul- 
phuric acid,  will  promptly  restore  the  color  to  articles 
so  bleached.  To  illustrate  this,  prepare  an  infusion  of 
logwood  ;  conduct  into  it  gaseous  sulphur  dioxide,  or 
pour  into  it  an  aqueous  solution  of  the  gas  ;  the  color 
immediately  disappears ;  now  add  a  little  sulphuric 
acid;  the  color  is  as  promptly  restored.  Sulphur- 
bleaching  is  therefore  only  practiced  in  cases  to  which 
chlorine  is  not  applicable,  as  in  whitening  silk,  wool, 
and  straw. 


REVIEW. 

1.  What  is  bleaching? 

2.  Describe  the  earliest  known  processes  of  bleaching. 

3.  Name  the  commonest  chemical  bleaching  agents. 


BLEACHING.  363 

4.  Describe  a   demonstration  of     the    bleaching    action    of 
chlorine. 

5.  How  may  chlorine  be  prepared  for  experimental  work? 

6.  Explain    the    chemical    changes    occurring   in    chlorine 
bleaching. 

7.  Name  a  common  anl  an  easily  employed  source  of  chlorine. 

8.  Describe  the  method  of  using  chloride  of  lime  in  bleaching. 

9.  Explain  the  methods  of  printing  bandanna  handkerchiefs. 

10.  For  what  materials  is  chlorine  not  adapted  as  a  bleach- 
ing agent? 

11.  Describe  a  method  of  preparing  sulphur  dioxide. 

12.  State  some  of  the  properties  of  sulphur  dioxide. 

13.  Explain  the  instability  of  the  whitening  resulting  from 
sulphur  dioxide  bleaching. 


364  DOMESTIC     SCIENCE. 


CHAPTER  38. 

DISINFECTANTS. 

Disinfectants  and  Deodorizers.— Certain  kinds 

of  impurity  cannot  be  removed  from  our  dwellings  by 
the  ordinary  methods  of  cleansing.  The  presence  of 
dust  in  the  house  has  been  shown  to  be  universal ; 
the  complex  nature  of  the  dust,  consisting  as  it  does 
of  inorganic  and  organic  matters,  and  even  of  living 
organisms,  has  been  dwelt  upon;  the  close  relation- 
ship between  the  progress  of  contagious  diseases 
within  the  body  and  putrefaction  without  is  now 
well  understood.  Following  a  consideration  of  these 
facts,  the  operation  of  disinfectants  will  be  clear. 

A  disinfectant  is  a  substance  that  destroys  the 
effluvia  of  putrefaction,  and  the  poison  of  contagion; 
yet  the  term,  by  a  popular  inaccuracy,  is  applied  also 
to  absorbents  and  deodorizers.  Foul  smells  are 
usually  associated  with  poisonous  properties;  the  dis- 
agreeable odor  seems  to  be  a  danger  signal,  affixed  in 
wisdom  to  many  noxious  matters.  Fatalities  from 
inhalation  of  the  toxic  coal  gas,  the  nauseating  hydro- 
gen sulphide,  and  the  deadly  prussic  acid  would  be 
more  frequent  but  for  their  disgusting  odors.  Sub- 
stances that  absorb  ill-smelling  matters,  therefore,  may 
.be  of  value,  yet  they  hold  the  offensive  gases  much  as 
a  sponge  retains  water,  and  they  may  again  allow  the 
escape  of  the  foul  matter. 


DISINFECTANTS.  365 

Certain  odorous  substances  are  wrongly  termed 
deodorizers,  such  as  cascarilla,  cologne,  and  other 
extracted  perfumes,  musk,  fragrant  spices,  aromatic 
mixtures,  burning  coffee,  and  even  smoldering  paper 
and  rags  ;  these,  however,  merely  hide  the  bad  odor 
by  substituting  a  stronger  one.  Such  substances  are 
almost  valueless  as  disinfectants.* 

Charcoal  and  Lime  are  efficient  absorbents  of 
many  foul  gases.  A  solution  of  hydrogen  sulphide 
shaken  with  fresh  charcoal  loses  almost  immediately 
its  foul  odor.  Lime  is  less  efficacious,  yet  it  is  valu- 
able. The  practice  of  whitewashing  the  walls  of 
rooms,  and  especially  of  cellars  and  such  places  is 
very  beneficial  in  sweetening  the  inclosed  atmosphere  ; 
though,  as  the  lime  soon  loses  this  power,  frequent 
renewal  of  the  wall -wash  is  necessary. 

The  merits  of  charcoal  as  an  absorbent  of  gases  are 
not  generally  recognized.  It  is  used  in  water  filters 
to  arrest  gaseous  impurities ;  organic  filth  of  many 
kinds,  even  the  bodies  of  dead  animals,  if  covered  with 
a  layer  of  freshly  heated  charcoal  may  undergo  decom- 
position with  no  escape  of  foul  effluvia ;  tainted  meat 
packed  in  charcoal  loses  its  disagreeable  smell ;  and  the 
air  of  sick  rooms  may  be  greatly  improved  by  placing 

*  "  They  (perfumes)  are  the  only  resources  in  rude  and  dirty 
times,  against  the  offensive  emanations  from  decaying  animal 
and  vegetable  substances,  from  undrained  and  untidy  dwellings, 
from  unclean  clothes,  from  ill-washed  skins,  and  ill-used 
stomachs.  The  scented  handkerchief  in  these  eases  takes  the  place 
of  the  sponge  and  the  shower  bath  ;  the  pastile  hides  the  want  of 
ventilation,  the  attar  of  roses  seems  to  render  the  scavenger  un- 
necessary, and  a  sprinkling  of  musk  sets  all  other  stenches  and 
smells  at  defiance."    (Quoted.) 


366  DOMESTIC    SCIENCE. 

therein  charcoal  in  shallow  pans.  Finely  divided  char- 
coal is  one  of  the  most  efficient  and  least  harmful  of 
powders  for  the  teeth;  being  soft  it  produces  no  in- 
jurious abrasions  of  the  enamel,  while  its  deodorizing 
action  does  much  to  sweeten  the  mouth.*  A  small 
amount  of  pure  charcoal  swallowed  immediately  after 
onions  will  keep  the  breath  free  from  disagreeable 
effluvia.  A  lump  of  clean  charcoal  in  a  cooking  vessel 
with  cabbage,  onions,  or  other  strong -smelling  vege- 
tables, will  prevent  the  escape  of  disagreeable  odors. 
Roasted  coffee  is  partially  charred  vegetable  matter ;  a 
few  coffee  seeds  may  be  substituted  for  the  lump  of 
charcoal  in  the  cooking  process  just  named.  Bone 
black  or  animal  charcoal  has  great  affinity  for  the 
elements  of  vegetable  colors,  and  is  of  great  use  as  a 
decolorizer  of  syrups,  etc.,  which  are  filtered  through 
it. 

Chlorine  as  a  Disinfectant. — Chlorine,  in  its 

pure  state  is  a  pale  yellowish -green  gas;  intensely 
irritating  if  inhaled.  Its  chief  properties  have  been 
considered  in  connection  with  its  use  as  a  bleaching 
agent  (page  359).  Hydrogen  sulphide,  ammonia,  and 
most  other  compounds  formed  by  the  putrefaction  of 
organic  matter  are  decomposed  by  the  gas.  If  allowed 
to  escape  in  closed  rooms  it  will  destroy  or  render 
inert  most  foul  matters  ;  but  it  is  likely  to   bleach   the 

*  Charcoal  from  wood  is  apt  to  be  "gritty,"  such  may  be  of 
injury  if  rubbed  on  the  teeth.  The  best  kind  for  the  purpose 
named  may  be  made  by  charring  the  crust  Of  bread.  Let  the 
bottom  crust  of  a  loaf  be  removed  in  one  piece,  and  this  be  com- 
pletely charred  before  or  over  a  glowing  fire.  It  is  then  to  be 
finely  pulverized. 


DISINFECTANTS.  367 

colors  of  furniture  and  drapery  in  the  presence  of 
moisture,  and  to  corrode  metals.  Its  most  accessible 
source  is  chloride  of  lime,  or  bleaching  powder,  which 
is  prepared  by  saturating  slaked  lime  with  the  gas. 
The  powder  contains  about  30  per  cent,  available 
chlorine,  which  is  set  free  very  slowly  by  mere  ex- 
posure;  but  may  be  liberated  very  rapidly  by  the  ad- 
dition of  an  acid.  The  common  attempt  at  disinfection 
by  simply  scattering  lime  chloride  about  the  premises 
is  a  very  ineffectual  one ;  the  substance  should  be 
mixed  with  acid — hydrochloric  acid,  sulphuric  acid,  or 
even  strong  vinegar  may  be  used.  For  disinfecting 
rooms,  chlorine  may  be  liberated  by  mixing  4  ounces 
of  hydrochloric  (muriatic)  acid,  previously  diluted 
with  three  times  its  volume  of  water,  and  1  pound  of 
chloride  of  lime.  Let  the  mixture  be  made  in  an 
earthen  vessel ;  the  room  should  be  immediately 
closed,  and  be  kept  unopened  for  24  hours.  Another 
method  of  chlorine  preparation  consists  in  treating 
manganese  dioxide  (two  parts  by  weight)  with  strong 
hydrochloric  acid  (three  parts  by  weight). 

Sulphur    Dioxide    as    Disinfectant. — Sulphur 

dioxide  is  a  colorless  gas,  entirely  irrespirable.  It 
may  be  easily  prepared  by  burning  sulphur,  and  is  an 
efficient  disinfectant.  It  is  in  most  respects  best 
adapted  among  disinfectants  for  general  use.  Wet 
fabrics  containing  vegetable  dyes  are  bleached,  how- 
ever.    To  prepare   and  use  the  gas  :*  set  an   iron  pan 

*The  "  sulphur  candles  "  now  offered  for  sale  by  druggists  afford 
a  convenient  method  of  disinfecting  by  sulphur  on  a  small  scale; 
tmt  being  somewhat  more  expensive  the  method  is  not  likely  to 
displace  the  simple  sulphur   burning  for  large  buildings.     The 


368  DOMESTIC    SCIENCE. 

on  bricks  in  the  middle  of  the  floor ;  as  an  additional 
precaution  the  bricks  may  be  placed  in  a  shallow  tub 
containing  water ;  put  the  sulphur  (roll  brimstone  is 
best  adapted)  in  the  pans,  allowing  at  least  two  pounds 
for  a  room  10  feet  square;  light  by  adding  a  small 
shovelful  of  glowing  coals,  or  by  pouring  a  table - 
spoonful  of  alcohol  over  the  brimstone  and  applying  a 
match.  Let  the  room  be  closed,  and  remain  so  for 
24  hours.  Do  not  use  chlorine  and  sulphur  dioxide 
together  ;   they  partially  neutralize  each  other. 

Carbolic  Acid  is  prepared  from  coal  tar ;  it  is  a 
colorless  crystalline  solid,  though  by  exposure  to  light 
and  air  it  soon  darkens,  and  if  at  all  diluted  it  becomes 
liquid.  In  an  unmixed  state  it  is  very  corrosive  to 
organic  substances,  but  being  soluble  in  water  it  may 
be  diluted  to  any  degree.  It  is  a  sure  destroyer  of 
bacterial  life  if  brought  in  contact  with  the  organisms, 
and  is  also  an  antiseptic,  acting  in  this  respect  much 
like  creosote.  A  two  per  cent,  solution  of  carbolic 
acid  ;  i.  e.  2  parts  acid  diluted  with  98  parts  water,  is 
suitable  for  most  purposes  of  disinfection.  The  odor 
of  the  acid  is  objectionable  to  many  persons  ;  this  may 
be  somewhat  modified  by  dissolving  camphor  in  the 
acid  before  dilution.  Many  prepared  disinfectants  now 
offered  for    sale    are   mixtures   of    carbolic   acid    and 


sulphur  candle  consists  of  a  quantity  of  sulphur  which  has  been 
poured  while  molten  into  a  shallow  dish  of  sheet  iron.  The  sul- 
phur mass  is  penetrated  by  porous  wicks,  previously  prepared  by 
soaking  in  a  solution  of  nitre,  so  that  they  burn  readily  much  as 
fuses  do.  After  preparing  the  room,  all  that  is  necessary  in  using 
such  a  candle  is  to  set  it  in  a  wash-bowl  or  other  convenient  vessel 
containing  a  little  water,  and  light  the  wicks. 


DISINFECTANTS.  369 

dilutents.  Carbolic  powders  consist  of  the  acid  mixed 
with  sawdust,  lime,  or  clay. 

Thymol  is  another  product  of  coal  tar  distillation. 
Its  odor  is  agreeable,  and  as  its  disinfecting  action  is 
similar  to  that  of  carbolic  acid,  it  is  largely  used  as  a 
substitute  for  the  latter.  It  may  be  purchased  in  the 
solid  state,  or  as  spirits  of  thymol,  consisting  of  1  part 
thymol  dissolved  in  3  parts  alcohol  of  85  per  cent, 
strength.  To  prepare  for  use,  add  one  table-spoonful 
spirits  of  thymol  to  a  half  gallon  of  water.  This  solu- 
tion may  be  sprinkled  about  the  apartment,  even  on 
carpets  and  draperies  without  serious  detriment ;  still 
further  diluted,  it  may  also  be  applied  to  the  flesh  as  a 
wash,  after  exposure  to  contagion.  Do  not  allow  it  to 
enter  the  eyes. 

Ferrous  Sulphate,  or  Green  Vitriol,  also 
called  copperas,  may  be  used  as  a  disinfectant ;  it  is 
cheap.  It  exists  as  pale  green  crystals,  and  is  very 
poisonous.  Ferrous  sulphate  is  a  good  disinfectant ; 
for  use  it  should  be  dissolved  in  water, — 2  pounds  of 
the  crystals  to  a  gallon  of  water.  This  solution  may 
be  improved  by  the  addition  of  2  ounces  carbolic  acid 
per  gallon  of  fluid.  When  required  in  large  quantity, 
a  basket  containing  fifty  or  sixty  pounds  of  the 
crystals  may  be  suspended  in  a  barrel  of  water  ;  the 
solution  soon  becomes  saturated. 

Lime  and  Charcoal,  though  absorbents  rather 
than  disinfectants,  occur  as  ingredients  of  many 
patented  disinfectant  preparations.  Gypsum  (lime 
sulphate)  is  mixed  with  carbolic  acid,  and  used  for 
disinfecting  stables,  etc. 


370  DOMESTIC    SCIENCE. 

Corrosive  Sublimate,  called  also  mercuric 
chloride,  is  a  powerful  disinfectant,  and  acts  by  de- 
stroying the  germs  of  decay.  It  readily  coagulates 
albuminous  matters.  One  part  of  the  substance  in 
1000  parts  of  water  forms  a  solution  of  sufficient 
strength  to  kill  most  bacteria.  It  is  a  deadly  poison, 
and  does  not  admit  of  general  use.  It  should  be 
employed  only  under  skilled  direction. 

Zinc  Salts  as  Disinfectants.— Certain  salts  of 

zinc,  especially  the  sulphate  (white  vitriol),  and  the 
chloride  (butter  of  zinc),  are  good  disinfectants. 
With  albuminous  matters  they  form  insoluble  com- 
pounds, and  act  as  absorbents  for  certain  gases.  The 
substances  are  poisonous  and  must  be  used  with  care. 
A  very  good  zinc  disinfectant  consists  of  zinc  sulphate, 
1  pound ;  common  salt,  y2  pound ;  and  water,  4 
gallons.  Infected  clothing,  bedding,  and  the  like 
may  be  immersed  and  boiled  in  the  solution. 

Lead  Chloride  is  of  service  as  a  disinfectant,  but 
must  be  used  with  care  because  of  its  poisonous 
nature.  To  prepare :  Dissolve  1  drachm  of  lead 
nitrate  in  a  quart  of  boiling  water ;  dissolve  also  4 
drachms  of  common  salt  in  a  bucket  of  water,  and 
mix  the  solutions.  A  copious  precipitate  of  lead 
chloride  will  form,  much  of  which  will  settle ;  the 
supernatant  fluid  is  ready  for  use.  It  may  be 
sprinkled  about  the  floor,  or  in  drains  and  gutters. 

Heat,    Air,  and    Light    as    Disinfectants.— 

Heat  is  an  important  agent  of  disinfection.  Clothing, 
carpets,  and  such  articles  as  admit  of  this  treatment, 
should  be  boiled  in   water,  or  subjected   to  a  dry  heat 


DISINFECTANTS .  371 

in  an  oven  at  250°  to  300°  F.,  for  several  hours. 
Woolen  fabrics  are  injured  by  this  treatment. 

AiP  and  Light. — For  house  disinfection,  abund- 
ance of  fresh  air,  free  access  of  light,  and  strict 
cleanliness  are  among  the  most  valuable  of  disinfect- 
ants. No  chemical  preparation  can  take  the  place  of 
the  natural  purifiers,  air  and  light,  and  no  cure  of 
uncleanliness  is  equal  to  the  prevention  of  such  a 
state. 

Below  is  given  a  brief  code   of  instructions  for  the 

Management  of  Contagious  Diseases,  as  author- 
ized by  the  National  Board  of  Health:* 

INSTRUCTIONS    FOR    DISINFECTION. 

Disinfection  is  the  destruction  of  the  poisons  of 
infectious  and  contagious  diseases. 

Deodorizers,  or  substances  which  destroy  smells, 
are  not  necessarily  disinfectants,  and  disinfectants  do 
not  necessarily  have  an  odor. 

Disinfection  cannot  compensate  for  want  of  cleanli- 
ness nor  of  ventilation. 

I.  Disinfectants  to  be  employed. 

1.  Roll  sulphur  (brimstone)  for  fumigation. 

2.  Sulphate  of  iron  (copperas)  dissolved  in  water, 
in  the  proportion  of  one  and  a  half  pounds  to  the 
gallon,  for  soil,  sewers,   etc. 

3.  Sulphate  of  zinc  and  common  salt  dissolved  to- 
gether  in   water,    in   the   proportion   of    four    ounces 

*  These  instructions  were  prepared  by  a  special  committee  of 
eminent  scientific  men.  They  are  here  quoted  from  Dr.  Tracy's 
admirable  little  "  Hand  Book  of  Sanitary  Information." 


372  DOMESTIC    SCIENCE. 

sulphate  and  two  ounces  salt  to  the  gallon,  for  cloth- 
ing, bed  linen,  etc. 

II. — How  to  use  disinfectants, 

1.  In  the  sickroom:  The  most  available  agents  are 
fresh  air  and  cleanliness.  The  clothing,  towels,  bed- 
linen,  etc.,  should,  on  removal  from  the  patient,  and 
before  they  are  taken  from  the  room,  be  placed  in  a 
pail  or  tub  of  the  zinc  solution,  boiling  if  possible. 
All  discharges  should  either  be  received  in  vessels 
containing  copperas  solution,  or  when  this  is  imprac- 
ticable, should  be  immediately  covered  with  copperas 
solution.  All  vessels  used  about  the  patient  should  be 
cleansed  with  the  same  solution.  Unnecessary  furni- 
ture, especially  that  which  is  stuffed,  carpels  and 
hangings,  should  when  possible  be  removed  from  the 
room  at  the  onset,  otherwise  they  should  remain  for 
subsequent  fumigation  and  treatment. 

2.  Fumigation  with  sulphur  is  the  only  practicable 
method  for  disinfecting  the  house.  For  this  purpose 
the  rooms  to  be  disinfected  must  be  vacated.  Heavy 
clothing,  blankets,  bedding,  and  other  articles  which 
cannot  be  treated  with  zinc  solution,  should  be  opened 
and  exposed  during  fumigation  as  directed  below. 

3.  Premises:  Cellars,  yards,  stables,  gutters, 
privies,  cess-pools,  water-closets,  drains,  sewers,  etc., 
should  be  frequently  and  liberally  treated  with  copperas 
solution. 

4.  Body  and  bed -clothing,  etc.  It  is  best  to  burn 
all  articles  which  have  been  in  contact  with  persons 
sick  with  contagious  or  infectious   diseases.      Articles 


DISINFECTANTS.  373 

too  valuable  to  be  destroyed  should  be  treated  as 
follows:  (a)  Cotton,  linen,  flannels,  blankets,  etc., 
should  be  treated  with  boiling-hot  zinc  solution,  intro- 
duced piece  by  piece:  secure  thorough  wetting,  and 
boil  for  at  least  half  an  hour.  (b)  Heavy  woolen 
clothing,  silks,  furs,  stuffed  bed -covers,  beds,  and 
other  articles  which  cannot  be  treated  with  the  zinc 
solution,  should  be  hung  in  the  room  during  fumiga- 
tion, their  surfaces  thoroughly  exposed,  and  pockets 
turned  inside  out.  Afterward  they  should  be  hung 
in  the  open  air,  beaten  and  shaken.  Pillows,  beds, 
stuffed  mattresses,  upholstered  furniture,  etc.,  should 
be  cut  open,  the  contents  spread  out  and  thoroughly 
fumigated.  Carpets  are  best  fumigated  on  the  floor, 
but  should  afterwards  be  removed  to  the  open  air  and 
thoroughly  beaten. 

Corpses,  especially  of  persons  that  have  died  of  any 
infectious  or  malignant  disease,  should  be  thoroughly 
washed  with  a  zinc  solution  of  double  strength  ;  should 
then  be  wrapped  in  a  sheet  wet  with  the  zinc  solution, 
and  buried  at  once. 


REVIEW. 

1.  What  is  a  disinfectant? 

2.  Show    the    difference    between    true    disinfectants    and 
absorbents. 

3.  Between  true  disinfectants  and  deodorizers. 

4.  Show  the  value  of  charcoal  as  an  absorbent. 

5.  What  do  you  know  of  lime  as  an  absorbent  ? 

6.  Explain  the  disinfecting  action  of  chlorine. 

7.  How  would  you  use  chloride  of  lime  as  a  disinfectant? 

8.  What  do  you  know  of  sulphur- dioxide  as  a  disinfectant? 


3  74  DOMESTIC    SCIENCE. 

9.    How  would  you  prepare  and  use  sulphur  dioxide  in  dis- 
infecting? 

10.  What  do  you  know  of  carbolic  acid  as  a  disinfectant? 

11.  How  would  you  use  it? 

12.  State  what  you  know  of  the  disinfecting  value  of  thymol. 

13.  How  would  you  use  the  substance? 

14.  For   what    special  uses  in  disinfecting  is  iron  sulphate 
adapted? 

15.  How  should  the  substance  be  used? 

16.  What  do  you  know  of  corrosive  sublimate  as  a  disinfectant? 

17.  Explain  the  use  of  zinc  salts  as  disinfectants. 

18.  State  the  uses  of  lead  cbloride  as  a  disinfectant. 

19.  Show  the  disinfecting  value  of  heat. 

20.  Of  fresh  air  and  light. 

21.  Name    the   common   disinfectants    recommended  by  the 
National  Board  of  Health  for  general  use. 

22.  Give  the  principal  instructions  of  this  Board  on  "How  to 
use  disinfectants." 


/ 


POISONS    AND  THEIR    ANTIDOTES.  375 


CHAPTER   39. 

POISONS    AND    THEIR    ANTIDOTES. 

A  Poison  may  be  defined  as  any  substance  capable 
of  producing  within  the  animal  or  human  body  a 
noxious  or  deadly  effect.  This  definition  includes,  of 
course,  injurious  chemical  compounds  of  an  inorganic 
nature,  also  certain  vegetable  products,  and  the  venom 
of  animals.  Many  poisonous  matters  produce  local 
effects  of  irritation  and  pain,  such  as  the  strong  acids 
and  alkalies  and  corrosive  mineral  compounds ;  others 
act  remotely  upon  the  body,  that  is,  through  absorp- 
tion by  the  blood  and  consequent  derangements  of  the 
nervous  system  ;  such  are  called  narcotic  or  neurotic 
poisons,  and  include  opium,  aconite,  alcohol,  etc.  All 
poisons  in  large  quantities  operate  speedily  when 
taken  into  the  body  ;  though  some  are  cumulative  in 
their  nature,  that  is,  they  may  be  taken  in  repeated 
doses  each  too  small  to  produce  alone  serious  effects, 
but  by  accumulating  within  the  body  they  give  rise  to 
chronic  derangements  of  increasing  severity  :  of  such 
poisons  lead  and  arsenic  are  examples. 

General  Treatment  in  Poisoning1  Cases:  — In 
most  severe  cases  of  poisoning,  the  symptoms  will  be 
clearly  marked,  and  the  attendant  circumstances  will 
likely  indicate  the  nature  of  the  poisonous  substance 
used.  Prompt  measures  for  relief  should  be  taken. 
As  a  rule,  when  it  is  found  that  a  poison  has  been 
swallowed,  the  first  thing  to  be  done  is  to  remove  the 


376  DOMESTIC    SCIENCE. 

contents  of  the  stomach,  thus  preventing  farther 
absorption  of  the  poison.  If  vomiting  has  not 
occurred,  simple  emetics  should  be  administered. 
Among  common  emetics,  the  wine  of  ipecacuanha  is 
good  ;  give  at  least  a  tablespoonful  in  the  case  of  an 
adult,  less  for  children.  In  the  absence  of  this,  mix 
powdered  mustard  and  salt  in  water — a  teaspoonful 
of  mustard  and  an  equal  amount  of  salt,  the  latter 
dissolved  and  the  former  well  mixed  in  a  pint  of  warm 
water.  A  tablespoonful  of  powdered  alum,  with  an 
equal  quantity  of  molasses,  honey,  or  sugar,  well 
stirred  in  water,  is  a  good  emetic  dose.  Mechanical 
irritation  in  the  throat,  as  by  tickling  with  a  feather  or 
the  finger,  will  often  induce  vomiting.  As  quickness 
of  action  is  of  great  import,  repeat  the  emetic  doses 
at  frequent  intervals  (every  ten  or  fifteen  minutes)  till 
copious  vomiting  occurs  ;  then  aid  the  operation  by 
plentiful  draughts  of  dilutent  liquids,  such  as  warm 
water,  alone  or  with  sugar;  mucilage  of  gum-arabic 
(do  not  use  the  prepared  gum  mucilage,  it  contains 
poisonous  ingredients),  watery  infusions  of  slippery 
elm,  or  flax-seed  tea.  A  stomach  pump,  if  at  hand, 
may  be  used  to  good  effect  in  cleansing  the  stomach. 
Antidotes. — Another  important  step  is  to  neutral- 
ize and  thus  render  inert,  as  far  as  possible,  the  poison 
within  the  body ;  for  this  purpose  certain  antidotes 
should  be  given.  The  object  of  the  antidote  is  to 
produce  insoluble  compounds  which  will  be  secure 
against  absorption  till  they  can  be  removed  from  the 
body.  Below  are  named  some  of  the  commonest 
poisons  and  the  antidotes  well  suited  to  each  case. 


POISONS    AND   THEIR    ANTIDOTES.  377 

Common  Poisons  and  their  Antidotes. 

Strong  Mineral  Acids,  such  as  nitric  acid  (aqua- 
fortis), hydrochloric  acid  (muriatic),  sulphuric  acid 
(oil  of  vitriol).  Administer  alkalies,  such  as  soda, 
lime,  whiting,  magnesia,  stirred  in  water.  In  the 
absence  of  these,  take  some  plaster  from  the  wall, 
crush  fine,  stir  in  milk,  and  administer  ;  soap  dissolved 
in  water  is  good.      In  any  case,  follow  with  dilutents. 

Organic  ^Leids : — Oxalic  acid  is  frequently  taken  by 
mistake,  because  of  its  resemblance  to  another  house- 
hold chemical — Epsom  salts.  Antidotes  for  oxalic 
acid — magnesia,  chalk,  or  even  wall  plaster  mixed 
with  water.  Prussic  acid  may  be  taken  as  oil  of  bitter 
almonds,  or  potassium  cyanide  ;  the  effect  is  usually 
too  rapid  to  admit  of  effectual  antidotes,  when  possi- 
ble, however,  give  very  dilute  ammonia,  or  chlorine 
water,  or  let  the  dilute  gases  from  such  be  inhaled. 
Cold  water  applied  to  the  spine  is  beneficial. 

Strong  Alkalies,  such  as  ammonia,  potash — as 
caustic  potash,  potash  lye,  pearlash,  potassium  nitrate 
(saltpeter)  ;  soda,  as  soda  lye,  etc.  Give  freely  dilute 
acids,  such  as  vinegar,  citric  acid,  or  tartaric  acid,  in 
water ;  these  tend  to  neutralize  the  alkali.  Give  also 
large  doses  of  oil,  as  olive  oil,  linseed  oil,  or  castor 
oil ;  the  oils  form  soap  with  strong  alkalies,  and  so 
delay  their  ill  effects. 

Antimony  compounds,  as  tartar  emetic,  wine  of 
antimony,  etc.  Vomiting  is  of  great  importance. 
Give  astringent  infusions,  as  strong  green  tea;  let  tea 


378  DOMESTIC    SCIENCE. 

leaves   be  chewed    and   swallowed;  infusion  of  oak- 
bark,  nut  galls,  or  tannin. 

Arsenic : — Usually  taken  as  white  arsenic,  Paris 
green,  Scheele's  screen,  cobalt  powders;  and  among 
patented  preparations:  Fowler's  solution,  and  various 
mouse  and  rat  poisons.  Give  abundance  of  milk  and 
white  of  eggs.  The  best  antidote  is  the  hydrated  per- 
oxide of  iron  ;  to  prepare  which :  pour  together 
solutions  of  perchloride  of  iron  and  dilute  ammonia, 
both  of  which  may  be  obtained  at  drug  stores ;  a 
brown  precipitate  forms  in  the  mixture  ;  strain  through 
linen  ;  mix  the  brown  mass  with  water  and  administer 
freely. 

Copper  Salts:  as  copper  acetate  (verdigris)  often 
imbibed  from  unclean  copper  vessels  used  in  cooking 
or  pickling;  copper  sulphate  (blue  vitriol).  Give 
freely  of  milk,  white  of  eggs,  and  carbonate  of  soda. 

Iron:  as  iron  sulphate  (green  vitriol).  Give  car- 
bonate of  soda  and  plenty  of  mucilaginous  drinks. 

Lead:  as  lead  acetate  (sugar  of  lead),  lead  carbon- 
ate (white  lead),  red  lead,  also  from  water  that  has 
been  kept  in  leaden  pipes  or  vessels.  Give  very  dilute 
sulphuric  acid,  or  Epsom  salts,  in  water.  Administer 
oil  and  mucilaginous  drinks  with  emetics.  In  chronic 
cases  of  lead  poisoning,  as  in  "  leading"  from  expos- 
ure to  fumes  of  the  metal,  repeated  doses  of  highly 
diluted  sulphuric  acid,  or  of  potassium  iodide,  may  be 
recommended. 

Mercury:  as  mercuric  chloride  (corrosive  sublim- 
ate), ammoniated  mercury  (white  precipitate),  mer- 
curic oxide  (red  precipitate),  mercuric  sulphide  (ver- 


POISONS    AND  THEIR    ANTIDOTES.  379 

milion.)  Give  white  of  egg  in  abundance,  or  flour 
mixed  with  water  or  milk,  or  soap  and  water.  Avoid 
strong  emetics  or  irritating  substances.  Use  the  stom- 
ach pump  if  possible. 

Silver:  as  silver  nitrate  (lunar  caustic).  Give  salt 
and  water,  then  oil. 

Zinc:  as  zinc  chloride  (butter  of  zinc),  zinc  sul- 
phate (white  vitriol).  Zinc  salts  are  themselves 
emetics  ;  relieve  the  vomiting  by  dilutent  drinks,  and 
give  sodium  carbonate  in  water. 

Phosphorus,  from  matches  and  vermin  poisons. 
Give  magnesia,  or  chalk,  in  water ;  flour  in  water ; 
follow  with  mucilaginous  liquids  in  abundance. 

Certain  Gases  are  sometimes  breathed  with  toxic 
effect.  For  chlorine  inhalation,  let  the  sufferer  cauti- 
ously breathe  ammonia.  In  cases  of  poisoning  from 
carbon  dioxide,  carbon  monoxide  (from  fumes  of  coke 
or  of  burning  charcoal),  hydrogen  sulphide,  illuminat- 
ing gas ;  relieve  the  stupor  by  applying  cold  water  to 
the  head, — give  stimulants,  and  establish  artificial  res- 
piration. To  effect  this,  take  the  patient  into  the  fresh 
air,  and,  except  in  the  severest  weather,  expose  the 
face,  neck,  and  chest ;  clear  the  throat  of  mucus  by 
turning  the  patient  face  downward  with  mouth  open  ; 
hold  dilute  ammonia  to  the  nostrils.  If  respiration 
does  not  take  place,  put  the  patient  face  downward, 
then  roll  the  body  almost  over  and  back  again,  regu- 
larly (about  fifteen  times  a  minute)  ;  this  causes  alter- 
nate compression  and  expansion  of  the  chest  and 
favors  the  influx  and  escape  of  air.  Rub  the  limbs 
upward,  using  considerable  energy. 


380  DOMESTIC    SCIENCE. 

Narcotic  poisons : — as  opium  (gum  opium,  lauda- 
num, paregoric,  infusion  of  poppies,  soothing  syrup  ; 
cholera  mixtures ;  most  patented  '-cordials"),  digi- 
talis, aconite,  hemlock,  belladonna;  stramonium. 
Give  emetics,  or  use  stomach  pump  promptly.  Keep 
the  patient  awake,  in  motion  if  possible ;  dash  cold 
water  on  head  and  shoulders,  administer  strong  coffee 
or  tea ;  also  vinegar  or  lemon  juice.  Keep  the  limbs 
warm  ;  if  necessary  resort  to  artificial  respiration.  As 
consciousness  returns,  continue  the  use  of  coffee  and 
give  weak  stimulants,  such  as  wine  or  brandy  in  water. 

Strychnine  and  brucine  (nux  vomica)  are  somewhat 
allied  to  the  foregoing?  though  these  usually  produce 
violent  spasms.  Cautiously  administer  chloroform  or 
ether  to  quiet  the  spasms;  then  give  powdered  char- 
coal in  water  (Walker). 

Irritant  vegetable  poisons,  such  as  croton  oil,  and 
many  essential  oils  and  essences,  are  often  swallowed 
with  poisonous  effect.  Yomiting  is  likely  to  occur 
spontaneously ;  if  not,  however,  administer  emetics 
without  delay,  aid  vomiting  by  warm  draughts,  and 
follow  with  an  efficient  purgative.  Give  vinegar, 
lemon  juice,  or  strong  coffee. 

Poisonous  meats,  fish,  or  cheese  are  sometimes  eaten. 
Evacuate  the  stomach  without  delay  by  emetics  and 
purgatives,  and  give  good  doses  of  vinegar  and  water. 
Hutchinson  recommends  that  this  treatment  be  followed 
by  small  doses  of  ether  with  a  few  drops  of  laudanum 
in  sweetened  water. 

Animal  venom  may  be  received  from  bites  of  mad 
dogSj  and  of  snakes,  and   spiders,   and  the   stings  of 


POISONS    AND    THEIR  ANTIDOTES.  381 

insects.  Wash  the  wound  with  dilute  ammonia;  if  on 
a  limb,  tie  a  bandage  above  the  place  of  injury  ;  if  pos- 
sible let  the  wound  be  freely  sucked,  the  mouth  being 
afterward  well  rinsed  with  water.  Moderate  amounts 
of  alcoholic  stimulants  may  be  given.  In  severe  cases 
ammonia  may  be  injected  into  the  veins, — only  a  com- 
petent physician  or  surgeon  should  attempt  this 
operation.  As  an  extreme  measure,  the  wound  may 
be  cauterized  by  the  application  of  nitrate  of  silver,  or 
by  pressing  the  heated  point  of  a  small  poker,  or  a 
knitting  needle,  into  the  wound.  In  the  case  of 
insect  stings,  extract  the  sting  if  still  in  the  wound  :  a 
pair  of  forceps  will  aid  in  this,  or  the  barrel  of  a  small 
key  may  be  pressed  around  the  sting.  Apply  to  the 
wound  a  little  dilute  ammonia,  or  spirits  of  camphor, 
or  moistened  soda;  or  in  lack  of  these,  alkaline  mud, 
or  earth  mixed  into  a  mud  with  saliva.  A  cloth 
dipped  in  a  weak  aqueous  solution  of  carbolic  acid  may 
be  applied  to  the  affected  part.  If  symptoms  of  inter- 
nal distress  make  their  appearance,  give  cautiously 
four  or  five  drops  of  carbolic  acid  in  a  wine  glass  of 
water. 

These  are  but  a  few  of  the  commonest  poisons  ;  the 
antidotes  recommended  are  such  as  are  likely  to  be  of 
ready  access. 


REVIEW. 

1.  What  is  poison? 

2.  What  methods  of  general  treatment  would  you  follow  in 
cases  of  poisoning? 

3.  What  is  a  chemical  antidote  for  a  poison. 


382  DOMESTIC    SCIENCE. 

4.  Name  the  antidotes  and  general  treatment  you  would  em- 
ploy in  cases  of  poisoning  from  the  following  substances;  as  far 
as  possible  explaining  the  action  of  the  antidote  in  each  case: 

5.  Sulphuric  acid. 

6.  Oxalic  acid. 

7.  Prussic  acid. 

8.  Ammonia. 

9.  Potash. 

10.  Soda. 

11.  Tartar  emetic. 

12.  Arsenical  compounds. 

13.  Copper  salts. 

14.  Iron  salts. 

15.  Lead  compounds. 

16.  Mercury  compounds. 

17.  Silver  nitrate. 

18.  Zinc  compounds. 

19.  Phosphorus. 

20.  How  would  you  treat  a  case  of  poisoning  from  coal  gas? 

21.  Name  the  chief  narcotic  poisons. 

22.  How  would  you  treat  a  case  of  opium  poisoning? 

23.  Of  strychnine  poisoning? 

24.  How  would  you  treat  a  case  of  snake-bite? 

25.  Of  stinging  by  insects? 


INDEX. 


Absorbents  of  Gases  365 

Arid,  Acetic  280 

"     Boric,  as  antiseptic,     346 
"      Citric  278 

"     Malic  279 

"      Oxalic  279 

"      Salicylic,   as  preser- 
vative 347 
11     Tartaric  279 
Acids,  Vegetable                    278 
Aerated  Bread  313 
Aeration  of  Blood  73 
Air,  Composition  of  38 
"    Contamination  of  60. 65, 69 
"    Elasticity  of                     15 
11    Humidity  of                    48 
"    Impenetrability  of  12 
11    Proof  of  Existence         11 
"    Physical      Properties 

of  11 

"    Permanency  of  51 

"    Pressure  of  16,  24,  25 

Air  Pump  19 

Air  Purified  by  Plants  52 

Air  of  Rooms  60 

Air  Supply  for  Dwellings      66 

"      Vitiated,     Effect     on 

Health  74,  77 

"      Weight  of  14 

Albuminoids  in  Foods  286,  293 
Albumen  286 

Alum  for  Purifying  Water  232 
Alum  Waters  238 

Alcohol,  as  Antiseptic  315 

Alkalies,      as       Cleansing 

Agents  351 

Ammonia  in  Water  212 


Ammonia,     as     Cleansing 

Agent  356 
Amyloid  Foods              269,  280 
Analysis  and  Synthesis  246 
Aneroid  Barometer  29 
Animals  and  Plants,  mu- 
tually dependent  57 
Anthracite  138 
Antidotes  to  Poisons  376 
Antiseptics — in  Food  Pre- 
servation 344 
Arsenical  Pigments  90 
Artesian  Wells  188 
Bacteria  340 
Baking  of  Dough  310 
Baking  Powders  312 
Barometers  27 
Barometer — Aneroid  29 
"              Siphon  27 
Wheel  28 
"               as  a  Weather 

Indicator  30 
Barley  as  Food  313 
Beef- tea  320 
Beets  299 
Bituminous  Coal  137 
Bleaching  358 
Bleaching  by  Chlorine  359 
"           "  Sulphur- 
Dioxide  361 
"           Powder  361 
Blood,  Clotting  of  288 
"        Aeration  of  73 
Blowpipe,  Mouth  156 
Boiling  of  Water  226 
"Boiling"  in  Cookery  298 
Boric  Acid,  Preservative  346 


384 


INDEX. 


Bottling  and  Canning 

342 

Bran,  of  Grains 

306 

Bread,  Aerated 

313 

Bread,  New  and  Stale 

311 

Broiling  of  Meat 

321 

Buckwheat  as  Food 

315 

Burners,  Gas                  164, 

165 

Butter 

327 

Butters— Artificial 

327 

Cabbage 

301 

Candle  Flame 

133 

Canning  and  Bottling 

342 

Cannel  Coal 

136 

Carbon-Dioxide— Proper- 

ties of 

44 

"           "           Tests  f  01 

47 

"           "           Exhaled 

by  Human 

Beings 

64 

"           "          Absorbed 

by  Plants  54 

Carbonaceous  Foods     269, 

278 

Carboniferous  Age 

56 

Carbolic  Acid,  Disinfectant  368 

Carrots 

299 

Casein 

291 

Carbonated  Mineral 

Waters 

236 

Calcium  Waters 

237 

Cellars  Under  Houses 

68 

Celsius  Thermometer  Scale  115 

Chalybeate  Waters 

237 

Charcoal,  as  Absorbent 

365 

"       as  Fuel 

139 

Cheese 

328 

Chloride  of  Lime,  Disinfec 

- 

tant 

367 

Chlorine,  Bleaching  Agent  359 

"         Disinfectant 

366 

"         in  Water 

214 

Chlorophyle  54 

Citric  Acid  278 

Cleansing  Agents  351 

Coal,  Varieties  of  135 

Coal  Gas,  as  Fuel  139 

"        "as  Illuminant  164 
Coal  Miners,  Mortality 

Among  82 

Cocoa  and  Chocolate  337 

Coffee  336 

Coke  139 
Combustion,  Means  of  Air 

Vitiation  69 

Compensation  Pendulums  111 

Condenser,  Liebig's  229 

Condiments  331 

Conduction  of  Heat  120 
Consumption,  from  Foul 

Air  74 
Convection  of  Heat  122 
Cookery,  Purposes  of  259 
Copperas,  Disinfectant  369 
Corrosive  Sublimate,  Disin- 
fectant 370 
Cream  327 
Creosote,  Antiseptic  346 
Currents,  Ventilating  101 

Dead  Sea,  Water  of      201,  240 

Decay  of  Organic  Matter  340 

Dextrin  276 

Dial-face  Thermometer  117 

Diffusion  of  Gases  39 
Digestibility  of  Foods   256,  258 

Disinfectants  and  Deodor- 
izers 364 

Disinfection,  Instructions 

for  371 

Distillation  of  Water  227 

Double-case  Stove  147 


INDEX. 


385 


Dough  309 

Dropping  Tube  35 

Drying,  as  Preservative  344 

Drying  Power  of  Air  48 

Dust  in  Air  81 
Dust,  Constituents  of       85,  86 

"      Household  87 
Dust-inhaling  Occupations    81 

Dust,  Hard  and  Irritating  82 

"      Poisonous  84 

Dust-  traps  in  Houses  88 
Dysentery,  from  Impure  Air  76 
Dysentery,  from  Impure 

Water  216 

Efflorescence  of  Minerals  174 

Eggs  as  Food  323 

k'    Preservation  of  347 

Electric  Lights  166 

Electrolysis  of  Water  243 
Emetics  in  Poisoning  Cases  376 
Esquimaux,  Ventilation 

among  76 
Exhaust  Fan  in  Ventilat- 
ing 101 
Expansion  by  Heat  108 

Fahrenheit  Thermometer  113 
Fan  in  Ventilating  101 
Fats  and  Oils  281 
Fats  in  Food  281 
Fats  in  Animals  283 
Fats  in  Plants  282 
Fibers  of  Meat  288 
Fibrin  288 
Filtration  of  Water  230 
Filter,  Pasteur- Chamber- 
land  231 
Fireplace,  Open  145 
"  Primitive  143 
Fire  Fly's  Light  168 


Fire-test  Point  of  Oils  162 

Fish  as  Food  318 

Flame,  Luminosity  of  155 

"        Structure  of  131 

Flashing  Point  of  Oils  162 

Flesh  as  Food  317 

Flour  as  Food  306 

Food,  Bodily  Need  of  253 

Foods,  Auxiliary       w  331 

"        Carbonaceous  269 

"        Classification  of  254 

"        Mineral              261,  267 

"        Mixed  255 

"        Nature  of  253 

"        Nitrogenous  286 

"        Preservation  of  340 

Force  Pump  34 

Freezing  of  Water  183 

"       as  Preservative  341 

Frying  321 

Frying-kettle  322 

Fruits,  as  Food  302 

Fuels  134 

Fungi  55 

Gaseous  Fuel                 139,  164 

Gases,  Diffusion  of  39 
Gases,  Dissolved  in  Water 

206,  210 

Gasoline  as  Fuel  140 

Gelatin  289 

Gillis  Ventilating  System  101 

Glucose  275 

Gluten  293 

Goitre  and  Hard  Water  201 

Grains  as  Food  305 
Green  Vitriol,  Disinfectant  369 

Grilling  of  Meat  321 

Gums  in  Food  275 


Hardness  of  Water 


201 


386 


INDEX. 


Heat,  Agent  in  Disinfecting  370 

Heat,  Conduction  of  120 

"      Convection  of  122 
"      Expansion  by      108,  112 

"      Latent  124 

"      Radiation  of  123 

"      Properties  of  107 

"      Specific  125 
Hermetic  Scaling,  as 

preservative  342 

House  Warming  143 

Human  Respiration  71 

Humidity  of  Air  48 

Hydrogen  245 

Ice  Crystals  184 

Ice,  Uses  of  181 

Iceland,  Ventilation  in  76 

Illuminants,  Fluid  162 

"  Gaseous  164 

"  Electric  Light  166 

Illumination,  Waste  in         167 
Indian  Corn  as  Food  314 

Iron  in  Food  266 

Iron  Sulphate,  Disinfectant  369 


Jelly,  Pectin 


280 


Kerosene  162 

"        Lamp  157 

"        Danger  from  163 

Lamp,  Simple  157 
"      Argand,    or    Stu- 
dent's 157 
"      Hollow-wick  159 
Latent  Heat  124 
Lead  Chloride,  Disinfect- 
ant 370 
Leaves  as  Food  301 
Lemon  Juice  332 


Liebig  Condenser  229 
Lifting  Pump  32 
Light,  Agent  in  Disinfect- 
ing 370 
"      Natural  and  Artifi- 
cial 154 
Lighting,  Artificial  157 
Lignite  136 
Lime  in  Food  265 
"    in  Disinfectants  365 
Lyman's  Ventilator  96 

Magdeburg  Hemispheres  21 
Maize  as  Food  314 
Malic  Acid  279 
Marine  Soap  354 
Matches  140 
Meats,  Cookery  of  318 
Mechanical  Ventilators  101 
Mercuric  Chloride,  Disin- 
fectant 370 
Milk  as  Food  325 
Mines,  Ventilation  of  96 
Mineral  in  Foods  1,  267 
Minerals,  Water  in  173 
Mineral  Waters             236,  241 

Narcotic  Poisons  380 

Nitrogen  in  Air  40 

"        Properties  of  42 

Nitrogenous  Foods  286 

"  Impurities  in 

Water  212 

Oats  as  Food  315 

Oils,  Fixed  and  Essential  281 

"    Essential  332 

"    and  Fats  281 

"     in  Plants  282 

"    in  Animals  283 

Oil,  as  preser  valiv  345 


INDEX. 


387 


Olein  283 

Onions  as  Food  298 

Open  Fireplace  145 
Organic  Impurities  in 

Water  212,  216,  225 

Oxalic  Acid  279 

Oxygen  in  the  Air  41 

"      Preparation  of  42 

"      Properties  of  43 

"     Supplied  by  Plants   52 

Oxy- hydrogen  Flame  247 

Palmitin  283 

Parsnips  299 
Pasteur- Chamberland 

Filter  231 
Pectin  280 
Pendulum,  Compensation    111 
Penicillium,  a  Mold  267 
Phosphorus  in  Foods  267 
Pickles  332 
Pipette  35 
Plants,  Water  in  175 
Plants,  Air  Purifiers  54 
"        and  Animals  mutu- 
ally dependent  57 
Poisonous  Dust  84 
"          Meat,  Fish,  etc.    380 
"          Wall-paper  89 
Poisons  and  Antidotes  375 
Poison,  Acids  377 
"          Alkalies  377 
"          Antimony  377 
"          Arsenic  378 
"          Animal  380 
11          Copper  378 
"          Gases  379 
"          Iron  378 
"          Lead  378 
Mercury  378 
"         Phosphorus  379 


Poison,  Silver 

379 

"          Strychnine 

380 

"          Zinc 

379 

Poisons,  Vegetable 

380 

Poisons,  Narcotic 

380 

Potatoes  as  Food 

295 

"        Cookery  of 

297 

Proteids  in  Food 

286 

Pump,   Air 

19 

"      Force 

34 

"      Lifting 

32 

Radiator- steam 

151 

Radiation  of  Heat 

123 

Radishes  as  Food 

300 

Rain  Water 

187 

Registers,  Ventilating 

100 

Respiration,  Organs  and 

Process 

71 

Respiration,  Vitiating 

Effect 

64 

Rice  as  Food 

315 

River  Water 

194 

Roasting  of  Meat 

320 

Rye  as  Food 

313 

Salads  301 
Saline  Waters  239 
Salt  in  Food  262 
"    Bodily  Need  of  263 
"    in  Human  Body  262 
"    as    Antiseptic  344 
Salt  Lake,  Water  of      201,  239 
Salt  Lake  City,  Air  Pres- 
sure at  26 
Salicylic  Acid,  Antiseptic  347 
Saponification  353 
Scheele's  Green  on  Wall- 

Paper  90 

Schweinfurth,  Green  91 

Scrofula, from  Impure  Air  74 

Seeds  for  Food  303 


388 


INDEX. 


Seething  of  Meat  318 

Semi-Bituminous  Coal  137 

Siphon  35 

Siphon-Barometer  27 

Smell,  Sense  of  62 

Soaps  352 

"       Hard  and  Soft  353 

Soap,  Impure  355 

"       Marine  354 

"       and  Hard  Water  202 

Soda  Water  209 

Solutions,  Aqueous  197 

Solids  Dissolved  in  Water    197 

Sore  Throat  from  Impure 

Air  75 
Soup  Making  319 
Specific  Heat  125 
Spices,  as  Condiments  333 
Springs,  Kinds  of  188 
Starch  in  Foods  269 
"       "  Plants  271 
Stearine  283 
Steam  Warming  150 
Steam,  Uses  of  182 
Storm  Glass  31 
Stoves  146 
Student's  Lamp  157 
Sugar  in  Food  273 
Sugar,  Saccharose  273 
"        Glucose  275 
"        as  antiseptic  345 
Sulphur  in  Foods  267 
"        Dioxide, Disinfect- 
ant 367 
Sulphur  Dioxide  in  Bleach- 
ing 361 
Sulphur  Waters  236 
Syringe,  Operation  of  31 
Synthesis  and  Analysis  246 
Tabernacle  Roof,  Salt  Lake    26 
Tannin,  for  Water  233 


Tartaric  Acid  279 

Tea  334 

Temperature  of  Rooms  143 
Thermometers  112 

Thermometer,  Celsius  115 

"  Dial-face        117 

"  Fahrenheit    113 

Thymol,  Disinfectant  369 

Tinder-box,  140 

Tin  Miners,  Mortality  of  82 
Tonsilitis,  from  Impure  Air  75 
Tuberculosis,  from  Impure 

Air  74 

Turnips  299 

Uses  of  Water  181 

Vapor  of  Water  in  Air  47 

Vapor  Gas  165 

Vegetable  Acids  278 

Jelly  280 

"         Gums  275 

"         Foods  295,  305 

Ventilation  93 

Ventilating  Currents  95, 98, 102 
Ventilation,  Gillis  system     101 
"         by  Heat  99,101 

"         Mechanical  101 

"         in  Mines  96 

Ventilator,  Lyman's  96 

Ventilator-burner  165 

Vinegar  331 

"         as  antiseptic  345 

Vitriol,   Green,  Disinfect- 
ant 369 
"        White,Disinfectant  370 

Wall  Paper,  Poisonous  89 

Warm     Air,    for     House 

Warming  150 

"     Water,  for   House 

Warming  152 

Washing  Compounds  355 


389 


Water,  Analysis  and  Synthe- 
sis 246 
Water-bath                            319 
Water,  Boiling  of  226 
"       Chemical  Purifica- 
tion                          232 
Cleansing  Agent       351 
of  Crystallization      174 
Distillation  of           227 
Electrolysis  of           243 
Filtration  of              230 
Freezing  of                183 
Hardness  in        201,  204 
in  Animals                 178 
in  Human  Tissues    179 
in  Minerals                173 
in  Plants                    175 
Occurrence  in 

Bodies  173 

Organisms  in  219 

Organic  Impurities 

212,  216,  225 
Solid  Impurities  199 
Natural  Purifica- 
tion of  194 
Purification  of  226 
Purity  Tests  221 
Rain  187 
River  194 
Spring  193 
Softening  of               233 


Water,  Solvent  for  Solids      197 
"  "         "      Gases 

206,  210 

"       Sources  of  187 

"       Uses  of  181 

-'       of  Wells  195, 218 

Waters,  Mineral  236,  241 

'k        Alum  238 

"       Calcium  237 

Carbonated  236 

11       Chalybeate  237 

"        Saline  239 

"       Siliceous  238 

"       Sulphur  236 

11       Dead  Sea  201,240 

' '       Great  Salt  Lake  201, 239 

Water-gas  164 

Watery  Vapor  in  Air  48 

Wheat  as  Food  305 

Wheel  Barometer  28 

Window  Currents  103,  105 

Wood,  as  Fuel  135 

Yeast  in  Bread  Making        310 
"       Compressed  309 

•'      Structure  and  Pro- 
ties  307 

Zinc  Chloride  370 

Zinc  Salts,  Disinfectants      370 
Zinc  Sulphate  370 


Date  Due 

1                    !                    ! 

! 

I 

! 

I           ! 

LIBRARY  BUREAU   FORM    1137.3 

I  507  USURY  USE  ONtY  ^  3  0  4 

TH7 

Talmag;e,  Janes  E. 

Domestic  science 


