"WISE  COUNSEI. 

**Put  not  your  trust  in  money,  but  put 
your  money  in  trust.' 

If  you  have  any  idle  money  which  you  are 
planning  to  invest,  deposit  it  with  us  where  the 
safety  of  the  principal  is  assured  until  you  get 
ready  to  use  it.  We  not  only  allow  you  4  Per  Cent, 
interest  while  it  is  on  deposit  with  us  but  will 
cheerfully  assist  you  in  the  selection  of  your 
investment. 

Small  Accounts  Appreciated. 

HOME  SAVINGS  BANK 


Where  convenient,  we  recommend  purchasing  Fleischmann's 
Yeast  just  before  using.  However,  the  yeast  will  remain  fresh 
and  sweet  for  a  week  or  ten  days  if  kept  in  a  cool,  dry  place, 
preferably  a  refrigerator. 

Fleischmann's  Yeast  provides  perfect  fer- 
mentation, produces  the  most  wholesome 
and  digestible  bread,  and  leaves  no  residue 
whatever. 

Write  for  copy  of  our  new  illustrated  cook  book,  free  on  request  to 

The  Fl^  -hmann  Co. 


701  Washington  Street  427  Plum  Street 

NEW  YORK,  N.  Y.  CINCINNATI.  OHIO 


r  [ 


COOK  WITH  GAS 

AND 

SAVE  FUEL 


If  you  have  equipped  your  kitchen  with  a  gas  range, 
and  have  discarded  your  ^rood,  oil  or  coal  burning  stove, 
steps  toward  efficiency  and  cleanliness  have  been  made. 

May  We  Suggest  Also  the  Following: 

A  Gas  Toaster;  An  I-Wantu  Gas  Iron;  A  Gas 
Heater,  for  chilly  days;  A  Gas  Hot  Water  Heater 

Upon  receipt  oi  your  enquiry,  our  represej|^tive  will  be  glad  to  call 
at  yo^  home  and  give  any  fur^^  information. 

CAROLINA  POWER  &  LIGHT  COMPANY 

-   TELEPONE  325 


Interesting 

To  all  the  family 

Comics  for  the  kiddies 
Sport  news  for  brother 
Society  news  for  sister 
Telegraph  and  Financial 

news  for  dad 
«i  Editorials  worth  while 

for  all  the  family 
And  Bargain  *'Ads"  for 

mother 

•        You  get  them  all  and  then  some  in 

The  Durham  Morning  Herald 

NINETEEN  OUT  OF  EVERY  TWENTY  HOMES  IN  DURHAM 
GET  THE  HERALD  DAILY 


4%  Interest  100%  Safety 

THE  FIDELITY  BANK 

Durham  and  West  Durham 


B.  N.  DUKE,  President 

J.  F.  WILY,  Vice  President  H.  O.  CLARK,  Asst.  Cashier 

L.  D.  KIRKLAND,  Cashier  J.  W.  MUSE,  Asst.  Cashier 

W.  E.  ALLEY,  Manager  West  Durham  Branch 


Drink 

Coco-  Cola 

The  most  refreshing 
drink  in  the  world 

It  is  the  best  in  bottles  because  it  is  uniform, 
and  bottled  under  the  cleanest  and  most  sani- 
tary conditions.  Have  your  grocer  send  a 
case  to  your  home. 


Durham  Coca-Cola  Bottling  Co 


The  Angier  Grocery  Co. 

"Means  Quality  Service  Always" 
Phones  58  and  59 

Fundell  and  Royal  Scarlett 

Canned  Goods 
Pay  Cash  and  Save  1 0  Per  Cent. 

Give  US  a  chance  to  help  reduce  the  high 
cost  of  living. 


Ferris -Noeth-Stern  Co. 

Importers,  Manufacturers  and  Jobbers  of 

Bakers'  and  Confectioners' 
Supplies 

Fine  Extracts  and  Colors 

2  1 9  W.  Pratt  Street  2  1 8  Dover  Street 

Baltimore,  Maryland 


Women  Can  Bank 

Ladies,  you  ought  to  have  a  checking  or  savings  account 
in  this  strong  Bank.  Don't  do  as  some  women  do — keep 
money  tied  up  in  a  little  bag  hung  around  your  neck  or 
sewed  into  a  skirt.  It  is  much  wiser  to  open  an  account 
here  and  keep  your  money  where  it  will  be  safe  and  pro- 
fitably employed. 

You  Can  Transact  Your  Financial  Business 
Here  With  Pleasure 

Our  Bank  is  conveniently  located  and  we  offer  every 
courtesy  and  attention  to  women  customers.  You  will  save 
money,  time  and  bother  by  having  a  check  account  and 
your  surplus  money  deposited  in  our  savings  department 
will  earn  four  per  cent  interest,  compounded  quarterly. 

MERCHANTS  BANK 

C.  T.  COX,  Cashier 
E.  B.  Moss,  Asst.  Cashier 


Durham  Ice  Cream  Co. 

Manufacturers  of 

Blue  Ribbon  Brand 

Also 

Daintily  Decorated  Ices 

This  is  the  most  sanitary,  modernly  equipped  Ice 
Cream  Plant  in  this  State. 

Managed  by  experts  in  their  line 


Durham,  N.  C. 

W.  p.  CLEMENTS,  Pr<^. 
A.  J.  POLLARD.  Vice-Pres. 


\ 


PROLONG  THE  LIFE  OF  YOUR  RUGS 
CLEAN  THEM  WITH 

9)^0  HOOVER 

It  Beats....    As  It  Sweeps    As  It  Cleans 

DURHAM  TRACTION  CO. 


O.  W.  BECK 

Dealer  In 

HEAVY  AND  FANCY  GROCERIES 
FEED  STUFFS,  FRESH  MEATS 

Country  Produce,  Etc. 
P.  O.  Box  257 


Durham,  N.  C. 


0-Cedar  Mops  and  Polish 

High  Grade  Aluminum  Ware 

TAYLOR  &  PHIPPS 

J.  W.  POLLARD,  Manager 
111-113  Church  St.  Phone  183 


DURHAM 
COOK  BOOK 

Let  me  cook  the  dinner  of  a  nation  and  I  shall 
not  care  who  makes  the  laws 


DURHAM,  NORTH  CAROLINA 

1921 


A 


We  niaij  live  without  poetry,  music,  and  art; 
We  ma\j  live  tvithout  conscience,   and  live  ivithout 
heart ; 

We  may  live  without  friends;  we  may  live  ivithout 
hooks; 

But  civilized  man  cannot  live  without  cooks. 
He  may  live  ivithout  hooks, — what  is  knowledge  hut 
grieving? 

He  may  live  without  Jwpe, — what  is  hope  hut  de- 
ceiving? 

He  may  live  without  love, — ivhat  is  passion  hut  pin- 
ing ? 

But  where  is  the  man  that  can  live  without  dining.^ 


A  Toast 

Here 's  to  the  good  people  of  Durham,  N,  C, 
Good  cooks  they  are,  none  better  can  be ; 
They  have  given  their  choice  recipes  to  Circle  No.  2, 
Each  one  has  been  tested,  and  will  surely  please  you. 


Table  of  Contents 

PAGE 

To  Patrons  of  the  Durham  Cook  Book   4 

Combinations  to  Serve  Together    5 

Choice  Menus    6 

General  Suggestions.    7 

Vegetables    8 

Meats   10 

Soups   15 

Cakes    18 

Small  Cakes    28 

Candies    31 

Bread    35 

Cheese  and  Egg  Dishes    39 

Oysters  and  Fish    41 

Salads    43 

Pies    47 

Desserts    51 

Frozen  Desserts    53 

Pudding  and  Sauces    55 

Sauces   58 

Sandwiches    59 

Pickles  and  Sauces    60 

Pickles   63 

Beverages   ;   64 

Canning    66 

Eecipes  for  the  Sick    68 

Household  Hints    70 


To  Patrons  of  the  Durham  Cook  Book 


We,  the  ladies  of  Circle  No.  2  of  the  Woman's  Mis- 
sionary Society  of  Trinity  M.  E.  Church,  wish  to 
thank  our  friends  who  have  so  kindly  contributed 
their  tried  and  proved  recipes,  which  enable  us  to 
put  before  the  public  a  choice  collection  of  the  best 
that  can  be  obtained. 

We  hope  that  all  of  our  friends  purchase  a  copy 
of  our  book  and  recommend  it  to  others,  so  that  all 
may  have  the  benefit  of  its  valuable  recipes. 

We  also  tender  our  thanks  to  the  business  men  of 
Durham  and  other  cities  who  have  so  kindly  favored 
us  with  their  advertisements.  They  are  reliable  firms, 
and  we  advise  our  readers  when  in  need  of  any 
articles  handled  by  these  firms  to  patronize  them. 

When  ordering  this  book  by  mail,  write  to 

'^DURHAM  COOK  BOOK" 
Durham,  N.  C. 


Combinations  to  Serve  Together 


With  boiled  fish  serve  hollandaise  sauce  and  boiled  potatoes. 

With  baked  fish,  potato  balls,  lettuce  salad. 

With  fried  fish  (small)  cut  lemon,  bread  and  butter. 

With  fried  fish  (large),  whipped  potato,  lemon  sauce  and  bread. 

With  plain,  boiled  potatoes  and  parsnips,  creamed  sauce. 

With  oysters,  lemon  or  vinegar,  brown  bread  and  butter  and  lettuce  salad. 

With  broiled  chops,  creamed  potatoes  and  peas  and  a  sharp  sauce. 

With  breaded  chops,  serve  tomato  sauce,  baked  potatoes  or  chips. 

With  broiled  beefsteak,  lettuce  salad,  plain  French  dressing,  or  celery. 

With  roast  mutton  potatoes,  turnip  and  brown  sauce. 

With  cold  roast  beef,  serve  horseradish  sauce,  salad,  and  roasted  potatoes. 
With  cold  tongue,  potato  salad,  brown  bread  and  butter. 
With  veal  cutlets,  and  tomato  sauce,  serve  rice  balls,  peas  and  canned  corn. 
With  boiled  ham,  apple  sauce  or  currant  jelly. 

With  sausages,  baked  potatoes,  cooked  celery,  tomatoes,  fried  apples. 
With  roast  pork,  baked  potatoes,  green  vegetables. 
With  roast  lamb,  cooked  spinach  or  peas,  mint  sauce,  potatoes. 
With  roast  turkey,  mashed  potatoes,  cranberry  sauce,  celery. 
With  roast  chicken,  rice  or  potato  croquettes,  stewed  celery  or  peas. 
Serve  with  any  meat,  one  starchy  vegetable  and  either  one  green  vegetable  or 
a  salad. 


Menus 


BREAKFAST 
Oranges 

Broiled  Ham  Corn  Muffins 

Cocoa 


DINNER 
Veal  Loaf 

Turnip  Salad  with  Poached  Eggs  Irish  Potatoes 

Apple  Pie 

SUPPER 
Brains 

Lettuce  Salad  with  Mayonnaise  Dressing 
Rolls  Tea 

MRS.  E.  G.  BELVIN. 


TWO-COURSE  MENUS 
Meat  Pie  with  Vegetables  Sliced  Pineapple  with  Cake 

Fricasse  of  Fowl  Glace  Sweet  Potatoes 

Chocolate  Pudding 

Broiled  Salt  Mackerel  Scalloped  Tomatoes 

Raspberry  Jelly  with  Cocoanut  Cake 

Meat  Stew  with  Vegetables 
Corn  Bread  Baked  Apples 

Hot  Meat  Loaf 

Baked  Potatoes  Cottage  Pudding 

Creamy  Sauce 

Boiled  Corn  Beef  with  Boiled  Vegetables 
Prune  Pie 

Baked  Macaroni  with  Cheese  and  Bacon 
Raspberry  or  Peach  Shortcake 

Curry  of  Chicken  with  Rice 
Apple  Pie  Cheese 


MRS.  J.  L.  WHITMORE. 


GENERAL  SUGGESTIONS 


Where  shortening  is  mentioned  in  the  recipes  it  is  under- 
stood that  butter  or  lard,  or  an  equivalent  quantity  of  butter 
substitute  or  vegetable  oil  may  be  used. 

MEASUREMENTS 

All  measuremens  for  all  materials  called  for  in  the  recipes 
in  this  book  are  level. 

The  standard  measuring  cup  holds  one-half  pint  and  is 
divided  into  fourths  and  thirds. 

To  make  level  measurements  fill  cup  or  spoon  and  scrape 
of£  excess  with  back  of  knife. 

One-half  spoon  is  measured  lengthwise  of  spoon. 

Sift  flour  for  measuring. 

BAKING 

Eegulate  the  oven  carefully  before  mixing  the  ingredients. 
Many  a  cake  otherwise  perfectly  prepared  is  spoiled  because 
the  oven  is  too  hot  or  not  hot  enough. 

Biscuits  and  pastry  require  a  hot  oven;  cakes,  a  moderate 
oven. 

When  a  cake  is  thoroughly  baked  it  shrinks  from  the  sides 
of  the  pan.  A  light  touch  with  the  finger  which  leaves  no 
mark  is  another  indication  that  the  cake  is  baked. 


TABLE  OF  EQUIVALENT  WEIGHTS  AND  MEASURES 

1  saltspoon  =  i/4  teaspoon 

3  teaspoons  —  1  tablespoon 
16  tablespoons  =  1  cuij 

2  cups  =  1  pint 

2  pints  =  1  quart 

4  cups  =  1  quart 

2  cups  granulated  sugar  =  1  pound 

4  cups  flour  =  1  pound 

2  cups  butter  =  1  pound 

2  tablespoons  butter  =  1  ounce 

2  tablespoons  liquid  =  1  ounce 

•1  tablespoons  flour  =  1  ounce 

1  square  unsweetened  chocolate  =  1  ounce 


KNOX  GELATINE  comes  in  two  packages— PLAIN  and  ACIDULATED 

(Lemon  Flavor) 


Vegetables 


* '  We  are  yours  in  the  garden. ' ' 

Spanish  onions  may  be  peeled  and  boiled  in  salt  water  ten  minutes.  Cut 
a  slice  off  the  top,  scoop  out  the  center.  Fill  with  ground  meat,  well  seasoned. 
Cover  with  buttered  bread  crumbs  and  bake. — Miss  Eunice  Chaplin. 

Slice  scraped  carrots  in  thin  slices  lengthwise.  Cut  each  slice  into  strips  the 
size  of  a  toothpick.  Cook  in  boiling  salted  water  until  tender.  Make  nests  of 
the  carrot  strips  and  fill  with  buttered  green  peas. — Miss  Eunice  Chaplin. 

SCALLOPED  IRISH  POTATOES.  Peel  and  slice  potatoes  and  place  in  a 
buttered  dish  in  a  layer  with  salt,  pepper  and  butter,  then  a  layer  of  grated 
cheese,  another  layer  of  potatoes  and  so  on  until  the  pan  is  filled.  Heat  enough 
sweet  milk  to  cover  and  bake  about  one  hour. — Mrs.  F.  M.  Carlton. 

BOSTON  BAKED  BEANS.  Pick  over  one  quart  of  pea  beans  and  cover 
with  cold  water  and  soak  over  night.  Drain  in  the  morning,  cover  with  fresh 
water,  heat  slowly  and  cook  until  skins  burst.  Drain  again,  add  three-fourths 
pound  fat  salt  pork  and  put  into  bean  pot.  Then  add  one  tablespoonful  salt, 
one-third  cup  molasses,  a  pinch  of  soda,  one  teaspoonful  mustard;  cover  all  wdth 
boiling  water  and  bake  slowly  ten  hours.  Add  water  as  necessary,  and  uncover 
the  last  hour. — Grace  W.  Atwood. 

BAKED  CROQUETTES.  One  can  pork  and  beans,  one-half  cup  minced 
meat,  one  tablespoonful  mixed  onion.  Mash  beans  through  potato  ricer,  add 
meat  and  onion.  Shape  into  croquettes,  roll  in  cracker  meal  and  eggs,  fry  in 
deep  fat.    If  too  soft,  add  cold  rice  or  potatoes. — Mrs.  Isham  King. 

TOMATO  BISQUE.  One  quart  tomatoes,  one  quart  water,  stew  until  soft, 
then  strain.  Add  one  teaspoonful  soda,  allow  to  effervesce,  add  one  quart  boil- 
ing milk,  salt,  butter  and  pepper  to  taste.  Boil  a  few  minutes  and  serve,  adding 
a  little  cracker  dust. — Mrs.  D.  F.  Parker. 

BAKED  CORN.  Cut  and  scrape  corn  from  eight  tender  ears.  Mix  well 
with  cream  dressing.  Place  in  baking  dish  in  layers  alternating  with  cracker 
crumbs  well  seasoned  with  melted  butter. — Mrs,  D.  F.  Parker. 

CREAM  DRESSING.  Melt  one  large  teaspoonful  butter,  stir  in  one  table- 
spoonful flour,  then  pour  over  it  one  cup  of  milk,  stir  until  boiling.  Then  add 
one  teaspoonful  salt  and  a  dash  of  pepper  and  mix  while  hot  with  corn. — Mrs. 

D.  F.  Paeker. 

BRUNSWICK  STEW  WITHOUT  CHICKEN.  One  pound  each  of  pork,  veal 
and  beef,  good  cuts.  One  can  each  butter  beans,  tomatoes  and  corn,  one  pint 
riced  potatoes,  one-fourth  pound  butter.  Cook  meats  until  thoroughly  tender, 
cut  finely  and  add  to  meat  broth  at  the  same  time  adding  beans,  corn  and 
tomatoes.  Cook  together,  stirring  constantly  till  meats  and  vegetables  are  thor- 
oughly blended.  Lastly  add  the  butter,  riced  potatoes,  red  pepper  and  salt  and 
Worchestershire  sauce;  stir  until  stew  becomes  the  desired  thickness.  This  is 
very  good  and  if  cooked  properly  will  be  as  good  as  if  chicken  were  used. — Mrs. 

E.  G.  Belvin. 

SPANISH  RICE.  One  cup  rice,  (uncooked)  one  pound  chopped  meat  cooked 
if  you  have  it  or  hamburg  steak,  one-half  can  tomatoes,  one  can  tomato  soup, 
two  cans  stock  or  two  cups  water  with  two  bouillon  cubes  and  seasoning.  Bake 
in  moderate  oven  for  two  hours,  stirring  frequently  and  adding  water  if  it 

8 


USE  DAN  VALLEY  SUPERLATIVE  FLOUR 


KNOX  GELATINE  is  GUARANTEED  to  please  or  money  back 


becomes  too  thick.  When  done  cover  with  bread  or  cracker  crumbs  and  dots  of 
butter  and  brown.    Serve  with  a  relish. — Mrs.  Annie  Whitmore  Andrews. 

BRUNSWICK  STEW.  One  large  fat  hen,  two  pounds  pork  cooked,  and  cut 
into  small  bits.  To  this  add  three  large  cans  tomatoes,  two  cans  corn,  two 
<?ans  butter  beans,  one-fourth  pound  butter,  four  tablespoonfuls  Lea  and  Perrin 
Sauce,  salt  and  pepper  to  taste,  one  quart  creamed  Irish  potatoes. — Mrs.  J.  S. 
Mesley. 

FRENCH  FRIED  POTATOES.  Wash  and  pare  potatoes,  cut  into  strips  length- 
wise through  the  center,  soak  in  cold  water  for  a  while.  Drain  off  water  and 
put  potatoes  on  cloth  to  dry.  Fry  in  fat.  Drain  on  brown  paper,  sprinkle  with 
.salt  and  serve. — Mrs.  Alvis  Umstead. 

BOSTON  BAKED  BEANS.  One  pint  beans,  one  onion,  one  tablespoon 
mustard,  two  tablespoonfuls  black  molasses,  two  tablespoonfuls  sugar,  one-third 
pound  salt  pork,  salt  and  pepper  to  suit  taste.  Soak  beans  overnight,  parboil, 
till  soft,  drain  dry,  put  onion  in  bottom  of  baking  dish,  mix  all  other  ingredients, 
including  salt  pork,  and  bake  for  hours  in  hot  oven. — Miss  Jennie  Dav^^son. 

MOCK  OYSTER  STEW.  Wash  and  boil  thoroughly  tender,  ten  or  twelve 
roots  of  salsify;  then  peel  and  cut  in  cubes.  Have  prepared  one  quart  of  sweet 
milk,  well  seasoned  Avith  black  pepper,  salt  and  butter  and  let  come  to  a  boil. 
Then  add  the  cooked  salsify  and  let  it  stand  for  at  least  fifteen  minutes  before 
serving. — Mrs.  R.  J.  Kernodle. 

ENGLISH  POTATOES.  Three  medium  sized  sweet  potatoes,  two  eggs,  one- 
half  cup  sugar,  one  tablespoonful  butter,  one  tablespoonful  rum  or  wine,  a  few 
spice  cloves.  Boil  the  potatoes  till  quite  tender.  Peel,  and  cream  the  butter, 
adding  the  well  beaten  egg  yolks  and  sugar,  the  flavoring  and  make  it  in 
pyramid  balls,  place  on  a  bread  tin,  brush  over  with  the  egg  whites,  garnish  with 
the  spice  cloves.   Bake  in  hot  oven  till  broA\ai.    Serve  hot. — Mrs.  S.  Bowling. 

CREAMED  CELERY.  Outside  stalks  of  three  heads  of  celery,  two  table- 
spoonfuls butter,  two  tablespoonfuls  flour,  one  and  one-half  cups  milk,  salt  and 
pepper  to  taste.  Wash  and  scrape  the  celery  and  cut  into  inch  lengths;  cook  in 
salted  water  until  tender,  which  will  require  about  one-half  hour ;  then  drain. 
Blend  together  the  butter  and  flour,  add  the  milk  a  little  at  a  time,  stirring  till 
it  boils.    Cook  three  minutes. — Mrs.  Frank  Stone. 

SNAP-BEANS  AND  CORN.  String  the  beans  and  break  into  small  pieces; 
wash,  put  in  vessel  with  meat  sufficient  to  season.  Then  cover  with  hot  water. 
Let  them  boil  until  tender,  add  salt  to  taste.  Keep  at  least  one  half  cup  of 
water  in  them  until  thoroughly  done,  chop  up  fine  and  add  corn,  the  grains  of 
which  have  been  split  and  cob  scraped.  AIIoav  this  to  cook  until  corn  has  a 
done  taste,  adding  more  salt  if  necessary. — Mrs.  J.  D.  Hamlin. 

BRUNSWICK  STEW.  One  hen,  one-half  pound  veal,  one-half  pound  salted 
pork,  one  quart  tomatoes,  one  quart  butter  beans,  one  quart  corn,  ten  Irish 
potatoes  the  size  of  an  egg,  one  cup  rice,  two  large  onions  or  four  small  ones, 
one-half  bottle  Worchestershire  sauce,  (thirty-five  cent  bottle,  made  by  Lea 
and  Perrin,)  bit  of  celery  seed,  salt,  sugar  and  pepper  to  taste.  Boil  meats  until 
tender  enough  to  mince  very  fine,  remove  all  bones,  add  vegetables  according 
to  time  it  takes  to  cook  each  tender,  except  potatoes.  They  should  be  creamed 
and  added  after  everything  else  is  thoroughly  cooked.  Potatoes  thicken  the 
stew  and  it  is  liable  to  cause  it  to  stick  to  the  vessel  unless  constantly  stirred. 
Add  sauce  after  stew  is  about  half  cool. — Mrs.  Jasper  Hamlin. 

SLICED  :?OTATOES.  Peel  and  cut  in  thin  slices  the  Irish  potatoes,  put 
in  vessel  and  add  salt,  pepper  and  butter  and  enough  hot  water  to  cook  and 
not  stick.  When  done  add  enough  sweet  milk  to  make  a  good  gra\y.  Let  it 
just  come  to  boiling  point,  take  off  and  serve. — Mrs.  J.  D.  Hamlin. 

9 


USE  DAN  RIVER  SELF-RISING  FLOUR 


The  KNOX  ACIDULATED  package  contains  flavoring  and  coloring 


GOOD  CABBAGE.  Boil  meat  enough  to  season  amount  of  cabbage  vou 
want  cooked,  until  nearly  done;  then  add  cabbage  and  cook  until  tender,  salt 
to  taste,  set  off  and  allow  them  to  soften  until  ready  for  use.  Not  less  than 
half  an  hour. — Mrs.  J.  D.  Hamlin. 

TUENIP  SALAD— ''COUNTRY  STYLE."  Boil  meat,  (hog  jole  if  vou 
have  it,  if  not  any  good  side  meat)  in  half  pot  water  until  tender.  While  ^the 
pot  is  boiling  hard,  add  salad  which  has  been  picked  carefully  and  washed 
thoroughly,  being  careful  to  remove  all  grit.  Add  salt  and  a  pinch  of  soda 
after  pot  has  begun  to  boil  again.  Keep  salad  pressed  under  water  and  boil 
as  fast  as  possible  until  tender.  This  should  not  require  over  twenty  minutes. 
Remove  pot  from  fire;  dish  up  the  salad  and  press  all  the  water  from  it.  Chop 
very  fine,  and  skim  the  grease  from  the  top  of  the  pot  and  add  to  the  salad, 
pressing  any  water  away  that  may  be  added  by  so  doing.  Cabbage  may  be 
cooked  in  the  same  way.  This  is  so  much  better  than  the  way  of  leaving  vegetables 
sloppy. — Mrs.  James  E.  Lyon. 

MASHED  POTATOES.  Four  medium  sized  potatoes,  one-half  teaspoonful 
salt,  one  large  tablespoonful  butter,  four  tablespoonfuls  milk.  Boil  potatoes 
and  drain  them  thoroughly,  mash  and  beat  with  a  wire  beater  until  light ;  add 
the  butter,  salt  and  milk,  heated.  Serve  at  once  if  possible.  If  obliged  to  keep 
them  standing,  do  not  put  a  cover  on  the  saucepan,  as  steam  makes  them  soggy. 
Stand  over  a  kettle  of  hot  water  and  when  ready  to  serve,  put  them,  mound 
fashion,  in  a  hot  dish  aud  sprinkle  the  top  lightly  with  pepper. — Mrs.  M.  F. 
Mahkham. 


Meats 


"There's  no  want  of  meat,  sir.    Portly  and  curious  viands  are  prepared  to 
please  all  kinds  of  appetite." 

VEAL  LOAF.  Two  pounds  veal  steak,  one  pint  bread  crumbs,  two  eggs, 
a  little  onion  chopped  fine,  two  slices  of  pork  gi'ound  fine,  two-thirds  cup  sweet 
milk,  small  bit  parsely,  a  little  sage,  a  dash  of  nutmeg.  Mix  all  together,  make 
into  loaf,  place  in  pan  just  enough  water  to  keep  from  sticking.  Place  bits 
of  butter  on  top  to  brown  nicely.  Brown  the  juice  and  thicken  for  gravy.  Do 
not  cover  while  cooking. — Miss  Claudia  Conrad. 

SMOTHERED  SPRING  CHICKEN.  One  nice  large  chicken.  Dress,  split 
open  down  the  back  and  breast,  put  in  baking  pan,  skin  side  ujd,  add  two  tea- 
spoonfuls  butter,  salt  and  pepper  to  taste,  sprinkle  with  flour  and  add  enough 
to  thicken  gravy,  with  enough  hot  water  to  cover  fowl.  Put  in  hot  oven  and 
let  cook  from  one  to  two  hours  until  tender. — Mrs.  R.  E.  L.  Skinner. 

CREAMED  CHICKEN.  Make  one  cup  cream  sauce.  Prepare  two  cups 
diced  cooked  chicken,  add  sauce,  season,  simmer  ten  minutes.  White  or  cream 
sauce.  Put  one  tablespoon  each  of  butter  and  flour  in  saucepan  over  fire.  When 
mixed,  without  browning,  add  one-half  teaspoonsful  salt,  one-fourth  teaspoon- 
ful white  pepper,  then  gradually,  one  cup  hot  milk.  Stir  until  smoothly  thick- 
ened and  simmer  three  minutes. — Mrs.  R.  E.  L.  Skinner. 

TO  BREAD  CHOPS.  Have  chops  about  one  inch  thick.  After  freeing 
chops  from  any  adhering  bits  of  fat  or  bone,  dip  into  the  egg  and  then  into 
finely  rolled  bread  crumbs.  When  breaded,  put  the  chops  carefullv  into  frying- 
pan  in  which  the  fat  is  sufficiently  hot  to  give  off"  a  blue  smoke,  broAvn  quickly 
on  one  side,  then  on  the  other,  cover  and  lower  gas  under  pan,  and  let  cook 
through  slowly. — Mrs.  R.  E.  L.  Skinner. 


10 

USE  DAN  VALLEY  SUPERLATIVE  FLOUR 


KNOX  GELATINE  makes  Desserts,  Salads,  Candies,  Puddings,  Ices,  etc. 


HOW  TO  COOK  BIRDS.  Let  the  birds  be  dressed  and  put  in  salt  water 
at  least  24  hours  to  tender  them.  Drain  them,  dip  in  flour,  pepper  and  salt, 
enough  fat  to  come  up  around  the  birds.  Backs  on  top,  cover  and  let  them 
steam.  When  brown  on  toi),  rook  .slowly  and  a  long  time.  W|Jien  done,  take 
up  the  birds  and  keep  them  warm.  Drain  off  all  but  about  two  tablespoonfuls 
of  the  fat,  put  in  one  tablespoonful  flour,  let  brown,  add  one  half  cup  sweet 
milk  and  one-half  cup  water  mixed  together,  one  teaspoonful  butter,  cook  until 
it  thickens.  You  may  place  birds  on  slices  of  toast  and  serve  gravy  separate. 
— Mrs.  J.  M.  Whitted. 

BAKED  OPOSSUM.  After  dressed,  salt  and  let  stand  overnight.  The 
next  morning  place  it  in  baking  pan,  back  up,  pour  about  a  cup  of  water  in 
pan  to  keep  it  from  sticking  or  burning  while  cooking.  Season  with  pepper. 
Baste  often  until  dark  brown.  If  'possum  is  fat,  no  butter  is  needed  to  baste 
with  as  the  fat  will  brown  it  sufficiently.  When  done  place  on  dish,  place 
slices  of  baked  sweet  potatoes  around,  garnish  with  parsley,  place  small  red 
apple  in  mouth,  to  be  served  cold  with  w^arm  gravy. — Mrs.  V.  B.  Lougee. 

VIRGINIA  BAKED  HAM.  Wash  the  ham  and  place  in  a  boiler  and  cover 
with  plenty  of  water  (cold).  Bring  slowdy  to  a  boil  and  then  move  to  the 
simmering  burner  and  cook  for  three  and  one-half  hours.  Let  the  ham  stay  in 
the  Water  overnight.  In  the  morning  lift  out,  j)lace  in  a  baking  pan  and  remove 
the  skin  and  trim  to  shape.  Let  stand  while  preparing  this  mixture:  One  cupful 
broAvn  sugar,  three  tablespoonfuls  flour,  tw^o  teaspoonfuls  cinnamon,  one  tea- 
spoonful  nutmeg,  one  scant  teaspoonful  ginger  and  one  teaspoonful  allspice. 
Mix  w^ell  and  put  the  mixture  into  the  fat  part  of  the  ham.  Place  in  moderate 
oven  and  bake  one  hour,  basting  every  ten  minutes  with  tAvo-thirds  of  a  cupful 
of  vinegar.  Remove  from  the  oven  and  when  cool  the  top  may  be  studded  with 
Avhole  cloves. — Mrs.  A.  D.  Wilcox. 

ITALIAN  STEAK.     One  pound  round  steak.  Cut   up   one   small  bunch 

celery,  two  large  tomatoes,   one  onion  and   spread  over  steak  together  with 

pepper  and  plenty  of  butter.  Bake  thirty  minutes  and  salt  after  taking  up. 
— Mrs.  M.  p.  Markham. 

HAMBURG  ROAST.  Twenty-five  cents  Hamburg  steak,  one  cup  bread 
crumbs,  one  cup  tomato  juice,  one  onion,  chopped  fine,  pepper  it  well,  one  egg. 
Mix  well  and  make  into  loaf,  i^ut  small  strips  bacon  on  top  and  roast  one  and 
one-fourth  hours. — Miss  Maggie  Albright. 

BROILED  STEAK.  Select  a  sirloin  or  porterhouse  steak  one  inch  thick. 
Place  upon  broiler  nearly  red  hot  and  sear  both  sides  well,  then  reduce  heat 
and  cook  slowly  five  minutes  turning  often.  Have  platter  hot  with  plenty 
melted  butter  in  it,  place  steak  on  platter  and  then  salt  and  pepper.  DO  NOT 
BEAT  STEAK  AND  NEVER  SALT  UNTIL  AFTER  taken  from  the  fire.— Mrs. 
D.  P.  Parker. 

SWISS  STEAK.  Two  pounds  round  steak,  one  quart  tomatoes,  one  large 
onion.  Have  fat  very  hot,  brown  steak  quickly,  then  pour  tomatoes  over  and 
slice  onions  very  thin  over  the  meat,  add  salt  and  pepper.  Cook  slowly  for 
fifty  minutes  in  covered  pan. — Mrs.  M.  I.  Upchurch. 

SMOTHERED  CHICKEN.  Dress  and  split  the  chicken  down  the  back,  put 
into  baking  pan  with  one  pint  of  water,  sift  a  little  flour  over  it  and  lay  two 
or  three  slices  of  bacon  on  top  of  the  chicken.  Put  the  cover  on  pan,  set  in 
stove  to  cook;  when  nearly  done  take  off  bacon  and  baste  chicken  with  butter 
and  a  little  pepper,  allow  it  to  brown  nicely.  This  recipe  applies  to  half  grown 
chickens. — Mrs.  M.  S.  Whitted. 

BAKED  BIRDS  (QUAIL).  Soak  birds  in  salt  water  a  few  hours,  wash  and 
slightly  gash  the  breast ;  place  in  pan  Avith  breast  down.     Put  a  large  piece 


11 

USE  DAN  RIVER  SELF-RISING  FLOUR 


Use  KNOX  GELATINE  if  you  would  be  sure  of  results 


of  butter  in  each  bird.  |to]>])er  and  salt  to  taste.  Put  a  little  water  in  pan,  cover 
and  cook  in  oven  until  tciidor,  make  a  rich  gravy  by  slightly  browning  butter 
in  a  hot  pan  and  adding  pepper  and  salt  and  one-half  cup  of  sweet  milk,  with 
very  little  flour.  Pour  this  over  birds,  put  back  in  stove,  brown  just  a  little. 
Serve  hot. — Mrs.  M.  S.  Whitted. 

CHICKEN  PIE.  Make  pastry  not  as  rich  as  for  dessert.  Steam  chicken 
until  tender.  Line  baking  pan  Avith  pastry  and  put  in  one -half  chicken  and  one 
tablespoonful  of  butter,  then  put  in  more  pastry,  remainder  of  chicken  and 
another  tablespoonful  of  butter.  Strain  the  water  and  pour  over  the  pie,  then 
cover  with  pastry ;  Avhen  nearly  done  put  a  cup  of  sweet  milk,  thickened  with 
flour  in  the  opening  in  center  of  top  of  pastry. — Mrs.  M.  S.  Whitted. 

STEAK  EOAST.  Take  a  round  of  steak,  beat  it,  pepper  and  salt  well.  Make 
a  nice  dressing  as  for  chicken,  and  spread  over  the  top  of  steak.  Roll  it  up 
and  tie  with  string,  put  in  pan  with  little  water  and  sliced  onion,  cook  in  oven 
till  done,  serve  in  slices. — Mrs.       S.  Whitted. 

CHICKEN  CROQUETTES.  One-fourth  cup  butter,  one-half  cup  flour,  one 
slice  of  an  onion,  one  cup  milk  or  chicken  stock,  one-half  cup  cream,  one  egg, 
salt  and  pepper,  one  teaspoonful  lemon  juice,  one  pint  chopped  chicken.  Cook 
onion  in  the  butter,  add  the  flour  mixed  with  salt  and  pepper,  cook  till  smooth, 
then  add  the  chicken  stock  and  cream  and  let  come  to  boiling  point.  Add 
yolk  of  egg,  cook  but  do  not  boil,  then  the  chopped  cMcken.  Cool  and  shape, 
bread  with  fine  crumbs  and  egg  and  fry  in  deep  hot  fat. — Mrs.  M.  S.  Whitted. 

VEAL  CUTLETS.  One  and  one-half  pound  veal  cutlets,  (cut  thick)  one 
small  egg,  bread  crumbs,  seasonings.  The  meat  may  either  be  cut  into  small 
pieces  or  left  whole,  as  preferred.  Season  with  salt  and  pepper  and  dip  each 
piece  into  well  beaten  egg;  drain  and  drop  on  a  paper  of  bread  crumbs,  coat 
thoroughly  and  shake  off  all  loose  crumbs.  Melt  and  heat  a  little  fat  in  a 
frying  pan,  and  cook  the  meat  golden  brown.  Serve  Avith  gravy  or  tomato 
sauce. — Mrs.  Prank  Stone. 

BEEF  LOAF.  Two  pounds  of  round  steak,  two  eggs,  one  cup  of  bread 
crumbs,  two  tablespoonf uls  butter,  a  small  piece  of  onion,  one-half  cup  sweet 
milk.  Run  meat  and  onion  through  meat  chopper  and  mix  well  with  other 
ingredients.  Make  into  loaf  and  put  in  a  pan  with  a  little  water  and  sj)rinkle 
with  bread  crumbs  and  butter,  cover  with  another  pan  and  bake. — Mrs.  E.  G. 
Cheatham. 

PRESSED  CHICKEN.  One  hen  boiled  until  tender  and  run  through  meat 
chopper.  Also  run  about  six  or  eight  hard  boiled  eggs  and  a  small  piece  of 
onion  through  chopper.  Mix  all  together  with  the  juice  of  two  lemons,  add 
salt  and  pepper  to  taste.  Skin  off  a  cupful  of  the  rich  stock  and  dissolve  one 
envelope  Knox's  gelatine  in  it.  Thoroughly  mix  all  together  and  put  in  a 
deep  loaf  pan.  Cover  with  oil  paper  and  put  a  brick  on  it  and  set  on  ice  for 
several  hours. — Mrs.  E.  G.  Cheatham. 

FRIED  CHICKEN.  Kill  and  dress  chicken,  let  it  stand  after  being  salted 
about  twelve  hours.  Have  grease  hot,  wash  chicken,  flour  and  put  in  hot  grease. 
Put  a  top  on  pan,  set  inside  of  stove,  turn,  cook  about  an  hour ;  take  chicken 
out,  add  butler  and  make  gravy,  by  sprinkling  flour  in  grease;  let  it  broAAii, 
then  pour  in  water  and  let  cook  several  minutes. — Mrs.  Fannie  Gooch. 

BAKED  OPOSSUM.  After  the  opossum  is  dressed  and  salted,  put  it  in 
a  baking  pan  with  a  little  water,  a  good  deal  of  red  pepper,  and  several  slices 
of  fat  pork,  or  some  lard.  Cover  and  cook  until  tender.  Then  put  it  inside 
the  stove  and  brown.  Sweet  potatoes,  baked  and  peeled  may  be  put  around  the 
sides  of  the  pan  and  browned  at  the  same  time.  A  good  sauce  for  the  opossum  is 
made  by  cooking  together  one  tablespoonful  of  Worchestershire  sauce,  one  table- 
spoonful vinegar,  a  teaspoonful  butter,  with  pepper  and  salt  to  taste. — Mrs.  T. 
S.  Belvin. 

12 

USE  DAN  VALLEY  SUPERLATIVE  FLOUR 


Simply  add  water  and  sugar  to  the  KNOX  ACIDULATED  pacakage 


BEEF  OMELET.  Two  or  three  pounds  of  round  steak^  one  can  tomatoes, 
one  tea  cup  bread  crumbs,  two  medium  sized  onions,  salt  and  pepper.  Run  meat 
through  grinder.  Remove  all  hard  pieces;  add  tomatoes,  bread  crumbs,  onions, 
salt  and  pepper  to  taste.  Mix  very  thoroughly.  Mold  with  the  hands  and  pat 
for  several  minutes  to  prevent  falling  apart.  Bake  in  moderate  oven  for  forty- 
five  minutes.    Very  good  sliced  when  cold. — Mrs.  W.  W.  Shaw. 

ROAST  BEEF  a  la  BRUITON.  Cold  roast  beef,  one  onion,  one  green  pep- 
per, one  small  can  tomatoes,  one  tablespoonful  butter,  cream  sauce.  Cut  beef 
into  small  cubes,  fry  onion  and  green  pepper  in  butter,  mix  all  together  includ- 
ing tomatoes,  season  to  taste,  and  last  stir  in  cream  sauce  and  bake  in  hot 
oven. — Miss  Jennie  Dawson. 

CHARTREUSE  OF  MEAT  AND  RICE.  Two  cups  meat,  one-fourth  tea- 
spoonful  pepper,  one  teaspoonful  salt,  one-fourth  teaspoonful  onion  juice,  one 
tablespoonful  chopped  parsley,  one  egg,  one-fourth  cup  fine  crumbs,  four  cups 
cooked  rice.  Season  the  meat  and  mix  with  the  crumbs  and  beaten  eggs,  add 
enough  stock  to  make  it  pack  easily.  Line  a  thoroughly  buttered  mold  or  dish 
with  three  cups  rice,  fill  with  the  meat,  cover  with  the  remainder  of  the  rice, 
cover  tightly  and  steam  forty-five  minutes.    Serve  with  tomato  sauce. 

CREAMED  CHICKEN.  Boil  a  chicken  until  tender,  the  usual  way.  When 
cold,  or  while  hot,  as  you  prefer,  place  the  breast  in  the  chafing  dish  in  w^hich 
a  small  lump  of  butter  has  melted  and  is  just  beginning  to  brown,  heat  thoroughly 
and  add  one  cup  of  rich  milk.  Season,  and  when  it  comes  to  a  boil,  thicken 
slightly  with  flour  rubbed  until  smooth  in  a  little  butter.  As  soon  as  it  comes 
to  a  boil  pour  over  squares  of  toast. — Mrs.  R.  B.  Suitt. 

SWISS  STEAK.  Wipe  a  sirloin  steak,  cut  one  and  one-half  inches  thick, 
pound  in  all  the  flour  meat  juices  will  absorb,  have  pan  hot,  add  a  small  lump 
of  butter  and  brown  on  both  sides,  add  enough  boiling  water  to  cover  steak, 
season  with  salt  and  pepper  (onion  if  desired)  cook  in  oven  until  tender.  Serve 
with  tomato  or  mushroom  sauce.    Round  steak  may  be  used. — Mrs.  F.  T.  Selby. 

PORK  PUDDING.  Left-over  pork  roast,  four  cold  biscuits,  two  eggs,  one 
tablespoonful  butter,  pinch  sage  and  black  pepper.  Grind  in  food  chopper 
bits  of  left-over  pork  roast.  If  as  much  as  one  pound,  also  grind  four  cold 
biscuits,  add  two  beaten  eggs  and  enough  warm  water  to  make  loose  enough 
to  mix  well.  Add  melted  butter,  sage,  pepper  and  bake  until  brown.  Serve 
with  toast. — Mrs.  Jasper  Hamlin. 

FOR  COOKING  ROAST.  Put  top  on  flat  bottom  aluminum  pot  and  place 
on  stove,  allowing  it  to  heat  slowly,  ])ut  thoroughly.  Then  put  in  pork  or 
beef  roast  which  has  been  cleansed  and  allowed  to  drain,  and  after  bone  has 
been  removed,  allow  to  cook  slowly  until  a  slightly  brown  crust  has  formed, 
then  turn  and  continue  cooking  slowly.  Occasional  turning  may  be  neeessar^, 
but  slight  crust  v/ill  serve  to  keep  juice  in  meats.  When  tender  add  salt  and 
pepper,  turning  about  until  it  strikes  through. — Mrs.  J.  D.  Hamlix. 

GREEK  CHOP  SUEY.  (Original).  One-half  package  macaroni,  one  pint 
can  tomatoes,  two  large  size  onions,  one-half  pound  cold  meat  (ground  fine). 
Have  macaroni  boiled  tender,  peel  onions  and  slice,  place  some  grease  in  frying 
pan  and  after  chopping  meat  very  fine,  place  in  pan  with  onions  and  fry  until 
tender.  Then  put  tomatoes  and  macaroni  in  and  cook  all  together  twenty 
minutes.  Put  in  salt  to  taste  and  cayenne  pepper.  (Either  pork  or  beef  may 
be  used  for  the  above.) — Mrs.  W.  A.  Beasley. 

HUNGARIAN  GOULOCHE.  Seven  slices  bacon,  sliced  very  thin,  four 
medium  sized  tomatoes,  six  eggs,  a  small  piece  of  parsley.  Fry  bacon  and  remove 
from  pan,  then  place  tomatoes  in  pan  and  fry  until  tender;  break  eggs  in  with 
tomatoes  and  scramble.  Garnish  with  parsley.  (Canned  tomatoes  may  be 
used.) — Mrs.  W.  A.  Beasley. 

13 


USE  DAN  RIVER  SELF-RISING  FLOUR 


For  Dainty  Delicious  Desserts  use  KNOX  GELATINE 


PORK  SAUSAGE.  Order  two  pounds  of  pork  loin  from  your  market  man. 
Eun  it  through  the  meat  chopper.  Season  with  sage,  red  pepper  and  salt.  This 
is  so  much  better  than  the  so-called  market  sausage. — Mrs.  E,  G.  Belvin. 

BEEF  LOAF.  Three  pounds  of  ground  beef,  three  raw  eggs,  six  crackers, 
rolled  fine,  one  teaspoonful  salt,  one  teaspoonful  pepper,  three  tablespoonfuls 
sweet  milk,  three  tablespoonfuls  water.  Mix  togther,  form  in  a  loaf,  cover 
with  bread  crumbs  and  bake  two  hours. — Mrs.  Geo.  T.  Watkins,  Jr. 

CHICKEN  LOAF.  One  fowl,  two  tablespoonfuls  granulated  gelatine,  one- 
third  cup  cold  water,  tAvo  hard-cooked  eggs.  Seasoning  to  taste.  Boil  a  fowl, 
an  old  one  will  do,  in  sufficient  water  to  cover,  until  the  meat  is  ready  to  fall 
from  the  bones.  Cool  the  bird,  strain,  and  continue  to  cook  the  liquor  until 
it  is  reduced  to  three  cupfuls.  Remove  all  skin  and  bones  from  the  fowl  and 
lay  the  meat  in  a  mould,  light  and  dark  meat  alternately,  adding  the  hard- 
cooked  eggs  cut  in  slices.  Season  the  liquor  and  add  to  it  the  granulated  gelatine 
that  has  been  soaked  half  an  hour  in  a  third  of  a  cup  of  cold  water.  When 
thoroughly  dissolved,  pour  the  liquor  over  the  meat  and  set  away  to  harden. 
— Cahrie  Lea. 

ROAST.  Method.  Wipe  the  roast,  place  in  the  baking  pan.  Sprinkle  gen- 
erously with  flour,  salt  and  i^epper.  Dot  Avith  small  pieces  of  fat.  Put  a  little 
water  in  bottom  of  baking  pan.  Place  in  a  hot  oven  until  the  juices  are  sealed 
up.  Lower  the  flames  and  roast  until  tender.  Baste  every  ten  minutes. — Corral 
Lea. 

NOODLES.  Take  broth  from  any  fresh  meat  and  add  a  small  piece  of  butter, 
salt,  pepper  and  celery  to  taste.  Take  one  Avell  beaten  egg  and  add  as  much 
flour  as  is  necessary,  to  form  little  balls  that  will  crumble  to  pieces  and  drop 
into  the  broth  a  little  at  the  time,  and  let  boil  fifteen  minutes,  stirring  constantly. 
— Corral  Lea. 

PORK  CHOPS  AND  FRIED  APPLES.  Season  the  chops  with  salt  and 
pepper  and  a  little  powdered  sage.  Roll  in  bread  crumbs,  dip  in  a  well-beaten 
egg.  Fry  about  twenty  minutes  or  until  they  are  done.  Place  them  on  a 
hot  platter,  and  pour  a  part  of  the  gravy  to  make  a  brown  gravy.  Pare  six 
apples  and  slice  across  in  circles  two-thirds  of  an  inch  thick.  Remove  cores  from 
centers  and  brown  in  the  fat  which  remains  in  pan.  Pour  broAAai  gravy  over 
the  chops  and  place  slices  of  apples  around  edge  of  platter. — Mrs.  G.  W.  Gray. 

MEAT  LOAF  BAKED  IN  PAN.  One  and  one-third  pounds  chopped  round 
steak,  one  onion,  three  eggs,  one  cup  cracker  crumbs,  one  cup  milk,  seasoning. 
Soak  cracker  crumbs  in  milk  for  fifteen  minutes.  Mix  all  together,  put  in 
greased  pan  (bread  tin)  Avith  suet  or  bacon  on  top.  Bake  three-fourths  of  an 
hour  and  serve  Avith  tomato  sauce. — Mrs.  Annie  Whitmore  Andrews. 

Another  tasty  dish  is  to  cook  a  thick  slice  of  ham  AA^th  escalloped  potatoes, 
placing  ham  in  center  layer.  Add  butter  and  cover  Avith  milk,  cooking  or  bak- 
ing tAvo  hours  sloAA'ly. — Mrs.  Annie  Whitmore  Andrews. 

MEAT  LOAF.  Tavo  pounds  of  chopped  round  beef,  one-third  loaf  bread  put 
into  cold  AA^ater  and  immediately  pressed  dry  and  crumbled,  add  to  bread,  salt, 
pepper  and  one  chopped  onion  (also  poultry  seasoning  if  desired)  mix  Avell 
with  one  egg,  then  add  meat  and  mix  thoroughly,  mould  into  a  loaf  and  bake, 
with  one  egg,  then  add  meat  and  mix  thoroughly,  mould  into  a  loaf  and  bake 
three-fourths  of  an  hour.  Put  suet  on  top  to  furnish  fat  or  bacon  enough  to 
make  gravy.  When  meat  is  done,  add  beef  cubes  to  season  and  broAvn  the 
gravy.  Small  potatoes  may  be  broAvned  in  pan  with  this. — Mrs.  Annie  Whit- 
more Andrews. 

HOG'S  HEAD  MINCE  MEAT.  Three  pounds  cooked  head  ground  in  meat 
mill,  tAvo  pounds  raisins,  one  and  one-half  pounds  currants,  one-half  pound 
citron,  tAvo  cjuarts  chopped  apples,  one  ounce  cinnamon,  one-half  ounce  cloves, 

14 


USE  DAN  VALLEY  SUPERLATIVE  FLOUR 


Try  KNOX  ACIDULATED  GELATINE  with  the  Lemon  Flavor  enclosed 


one-half  ounce  ginger,  two  nutmegs,  one  teaspoonful  salt,  one-half  teaspoonful 
pepper,  one  pound  sugar.  Mix  well.  Heat  in  kettle  the  following:  one  pint 
cider  or  juice  from  stewed  fruit,  one  pint  molasses,  one  pint  syrup  from  sweet 
pickle,  one  tablespoonful  butter.  When  it  comes  to  a  boil  pour  it  over  the  in- 
gredients in  pan,  mix  well,  then  get  it  boiling  hot,  then  if  you  have  it,  add  one 
tea  cup  brandy,  and  can.  This  will  keep  through  summer.  One  medium  sized 
hog's  head  will  make  this. — Mrs.  J.  W.  Roach. 


Soups 


''A  health  tn  the  girl  that  can  dance  like  a  dream, 

And  tht  [lirl  that  can  pound  the  piano; 
A  healtJi  to  tht  girl  that  writes  verse  by  the  ream, 

Or  toy;i  icith  lugli  C  soprano; 
To  the  girl  that  can  talk  and  the  girl  that  does  not; 

To  the  saint  and  tlu  sirrrt  Jiftlr  sinner — 
But  here's  tn  thr  cJtr>r,.st  g,rl  of  th<  Jot, 

The  girl  that  can  cook  a  good  dinner." 

VEGETABLE  SOUP.  One  large  soup  bone,  three  quarts  water;  boil  one 
hour,  strain  and  put  meat  back  in  stock.  Add  can  tomatoes,  one  can  corn,  (or 
six  ears  fresh  corn),  one  can  butterbeans  or  one  pint  fresh  butterbeans,  one 
pound  cabbage,  six  Irish  potatoes,  one  onion,  one  tablespoonful  sugar,  salt  and 
pepper  to  taste.  Cook  a  long  time.  Secret  of  good  soup  is  in  the  length  of 
cooking.    Add  a  little  milk  just  before  serving. — Mrs.  J.  L.  Whitmore. 

SOUP  FOR  THE  SICK.  Use  very  rich  milk,  add  a  little  cream,  put  on  in 
double  boiler  and  let  get  hot.  For  cream  of  green  pea  soup,  add  green  peas 
put  through  a  strainer,  add  enough  milk  to  make  a  light  green  color,  season 
with  butter  and  salt. — Mrs.  E.  J.  Parrish. 

CREAM  OF  SPINACH  SOUP.  Cook  spinach,  put  through  strainer,  add  the 
spinach  to  the  rich  hot  milk  as  above. — Mrs.  E.  J.  Parrish. 

CREAM  OF  POTATO  SOUP.    Make  as  above.— Mrs.  E.  J.  Parrish. 

In  making  chicken  soup  add  celery  cut  in  small  pieces.  When  thoroughly 
done  this  is  fine. — Mrs.  E.  J.  Parrish. 

CREAM  OF  TOMATO  SOUP.  One  quart  can  tomatoes,  one-half  pint  sweet 
milk,  two  tablespoonfuls  butter,  two  tablespoonfuls  flour,  one  teaspoonful  dried 
celery  leaves,  one  small  onion,  sugar,  salt  and  pepper  to  taste.  Put  on  the 
tomatoes  about  one-half  pint  water,  add  the  celery  leaves,  onion  sliced,  and 
cook  about  twenty  minutes ;  then  rub  through  a  sieve.  Blend  the  butter  and 
flour  well  and  add  to  tomato  juice,  stirring  all  the  while,  then  add  sugar,  salt 
and  pepper  to  taste,  cooking  a  few  minutes.  Add  sweet  milk  and  bring  to 
boiling  point,  stirring  it  constantly. — Mrs.  M.  X.  Gaurard. 

CREAM  OF  PEA  SOUP.  One  can  peas,  one  quart  milk,  two  tablespoonfuls 
flour,  two  tablespoonfuls  butter.  Heat  one  can  of  peas  in  their  own  liquor ;  add 
to  this,  one  quart  of  milk.  Melt  the  butter,  mix  with  the  flour  and  thicken  the 
soup  with  it.    Season  to  taste  and  serve  hot. — Mrs.  M.  F.  M.ajikham. 

VEGETABLE  SOL^P.  One  large  soup  bone,  three  Cjuarts  water.  Boil  one 
hour,  strain  and  put  meat  back  in  stock.  Add  can  tomatoes,  one  can  corn, 
(six  ears  of  fresh  corn),  one  can  butterbeans  or  one  pint  fresh  butterbeans, 
one  pound  cabbage,  six  Irish  potatoes,  one  onion,  one  tablespoon  sugar,  salt 
and  pepper  to  taste.  Cook  a  long  time.  Secret  of  good  soup  is  in  the  length 
of  cooking.    Add  a  little  milk  just  before  serving. — Mrs.  J.  L.  Whit^iore. 

CLAM  CHOWDER  WITH  MEAT.  One  pound  soup  meat,  two  quarts  water, 
six  potatoes  diced,  one-half  can  tomatoes,  one  and  one-half  dozen  clams  ancl 


USE  DAN  RIVER  SELF-RISING  FLOUR 


KNOX  GELATINE  makes  dainty  desserts  for  dainty  people 


liquor,  add  clam  liquor  to  other  ingredients  and  cook  with  little  parsley;  last 
add  seasoning. — Mrs.  Annie  Whitmoke  Andrews. 

CHOWDER  WITH  POEK.  Two  dozen  clams,  one  fourth  pound  salt  pork, 
one  bay  leaf,  three  or  four  onions,  six  potatoes,  diced,  one-half  can  tomatoes, 
one  and  one -half  quarts  Avater,  seasoning.  Put  pork  cut  up  m  kettle  and  cook 
until  almost  brown.  Add  clam  liquor,  water,  bay  leaf  and  onions  and  potatoes 
and  cook  fully  one  and  one-half  hours,  adding  chopped  or  cut  clams  last,  cook- 
ing about  ten  minutes. — Mrs.  Annie  Whitmore  Andrew^s. 

TOMATO  SOUP.  To  one  can  tomatoes  add  one  pint  water,  one-half  bay 
leaf,  two  cloves,  or  a  bit  of  mace.  Cook  until  tomatoes  are  soft,  then  strain. 
After  straining  add  one  teaspoonful  sugar,  one  teaspoonful  salt,  one-fourth 
teaspoonful  soda.  Thicken  with  two  tablespoonfuls  butter  and  three  table- 
spoonfuls  flour  blended  together. — Mrs.  Annie  Whitmore  Andrews. 

CEEAM  OF  TOMATO  SOUP.  To  one-half  can  tomatoes  add  one  scant  table- 
spoonful  of  finely  chopped  onion  and  three  spikes  of  celery.  Cook  until  tender 
and  strain  through  Avire  sieve.  Season  to  taste  and  add  soda  the  size  of  a  pea. 
Scald  milk.  Mix  a  heaping  teaspoonful  flour  vrith  one  of  melted  butter,  dis- 
solve in  little  Avarm  milk  and  stir  into  scalding  milk.  Add  to  strained  tomato 
stock  just  before  serving. — Mrs.  Annie  Whitmore  Andreavs. 

CORN  SOUP.  Cook  one  can  of  corn  Avith  one  pint  of  Avater  tAventy  minutes. 
Cook  one  tablespoonful  of  onion  in  four  of  butter  till  a  light  broAvn,  then  add 
four  tablespoonfuls  flour,  tAvo  teaspoonfuls  salt,  one-fourth  j^epper.  When  Avell- 
mixed,  gradually  add  one  quart  scalded  milk  and  cooked  corn.  Add  last  and 
sloAvly  the  beaten  yolks  of  tAvo  eggs. — Mrs.  Annie  Whitmore  Andreavs. 

VEGETABLE  SOUP  OR  BARLEY  SOUP.  Two  pounds  of  soup  meat  and 
knuckle  bones,  one  cup  barley,  fragments  of  soup  greens,  (celery,  onion,  carrot, 
turnip,  parsley),  one-half  can  peas,  one-half  can  lima  beans,  one  can  tomato, 
seasoning,  four  quarts  of  Avater.  Put  all  on  together,  except  parsley  and  tomatoes 
in  four  quarts  of  cold  Avater,  let  come  to  a  boil,  then  simmer  very  slowly  until 
meat  falls  apart,  add  tomatoes,  chopped  tAvo  hours  before  soup  is  cooked  and 
parsley  chopped  a  feAv  minutes  before.  A  very  long  cooking  makes  it  nice.  I 
simmer  mine  all  day.  For  choAvder  I  use  this  same  recipe  Avith  exception  of 
quantity  of  Avater,  (less)  also  less  meat  and  no  barley,  although  I  often  add 
clams  to  the  soup  just  as  it  is  Avhen  I  have  it.  Add  clam  liquor  before  serving, 
but  clams  cut  up,  only  a  few  minutes  before.  Add  diced  potatoes  and  cook 
sloAvly  all  together  fully  an  hour. — Mrs.  Annie  Whitmore  Andreavs. 

CREAM  OF  CELERY  SOUP.  One  pint  chopped  celery,  one  pint  water, 
tAvo  tablespoonfuls  butter,  three  tablespoonfuls  flour,  one  sliced  onion,  one  quart 
milk,  one  teaspoonful  salt  and  dash  of  cayenne.  Cook  onion  and  celery  in  water 
until  tender.  Then  press  through  a  sieve.  Rub  butter  and  flour  together.  Add 
hot  milk  and  stir  till  it  thickens.  Add  celery,  Avater,  salt  and  cayenne.  Serve 
hot. — Mrs.  Ella  Boone  Dickson,  R.  N. 

ENGLISH  PEA  SOUP.  One  can  peas,  one  pint  water,  one  quart  milk, 
tAvo  tablespoonfuls  butter,  three  tablespoonfuls  flour,  salt  and  cayenne  to  taste. 
Cook  peas  in  AA-ater  till  Avell  done.  Press  through  a  sieve  (using  the  AA-ater). 
Rub  butter  and  flour  together.  Add  this  to  the  hot  milk.  Stir  until  it  boils, 
then  add  the  peas,  salt  and  cayenne. — Mrs.  Ella  Boone  Dickson,  R.  N. 

MOCK  TURTLE  SOUP.  Six  medium  Irish  potatoes,  one  quart  of  milk, 
one  pint  boiling  AA^ater,  tAVO  and  one-half  tablespoonfuls  butter,  salt  and  pepper 
to  taste.  Peel  and  slice  potatoes  and  put  them  in  the  water  and  boil  nearly  done. 
Then  add  milk,  butter,  and  salt  and  pepper. — Mrs.  Ella  Boone  Dickson,  R.  N. 

SOUP  NO.  1.  One  can  A^egetable  soup,  one  can  tomatoes,  four  large  potatoes, 
two  large  onions.  Cook  potatoes  and  onions  until  done,  then  add  the  rest  and 
cook  about  fifteen  minutes. 

16 


USE  DAN  VALLEY  SUPERLATIVE  FLOUR 


Healthful 

Reliable 

Economical 


The  prudent 
housewife  avoids 
substitutes,  which  may 
contain  alum,  and  uses 


ROYAL 

BAKING 
POWDER 

JUisoluiely  Pure 

Made  from  Cream  of  Tartar, 
derived  from  grapes. 


KNOX  ACIDULATED  GELATINE  saves  the  cost,  time  and  bother  of 
squeezing  lemons 


SOUP  NO.  2.  (Real  vegetable  soup).  One  half  dozen  ears  corn,  one-half 
dozen  tomatoes,  one  quart  butterbeans,  one  quart  okra,  four  large  i)otatoes,  two 
onions,  small  bit  cabbage,  soup  bone.  Cook  hone  and  beans,  cabbage,  corn 
and  potatoes  and  onions  together  first,  then  add  the  rest. 

SOUP  NO.  3,  Four  large  potatoes,  two  large  onions,  one  can  corn,  one 
can  tomatoes.    Cook  all  together  until  done. 

SOUP  NO.  4.  One  can  tomato  soup,  one  pint  sweet  milk.  Cook  about  fifteen 
minutes,  add  salt  and  pepper  to  taste. — Mrs.  J.  B.  Williams. 

BOUILLON.  Five  pounds  lean  beef,  two  pounds  marrow  l)one,  three  quarts 
cold  water,  one  teaspoon  pepper  corns,  one  teaspoon  salt,  one-third  cup  onion, 
one-third  cup  carrots,  one-third  cup  turnip,  one-third  cup  celery.  Cut  them  in 
inch  cubes.  Put  in  the  soup  pot  with  cold  water  and  soak  thirty  minutes. 
Brown  the  other  third  in  marrow  fat  and  put  in  the  soup  pot.  Heat  to  the 
boiling  point  and  simmer  five  hours.  Add  the  seasonings  and  cook  one  hour 
and  strain.    Cool,  remove  fat  and  clear.    Serve  in  Bouillon  cups. — Carrie  Lea. 


Cakes 


^'IVith  weicjhis  and  measures  just  and  true, 

Ore II  itf  (  rcn  heat,  , 
Wdl-hiitit  I  t  il  tins  and  quiet  nerves, 

ISucccs.'i  iciU  he  complete.^' 

In  making  cakes  use  the  best  materials.  Always  sift  the  flour  twice,  adding 
to  it  the  baking  powder  and  mixing  well.  If  it  is  warm  chill  the  eggs,  beat  the 
yolks  and  the  whites  separately,  and  very  thoroughly.  Mix  butter  and  sugar  to 
a  cream,  tlien  add  yolks,  then  the  flour  and  milk  alternately  in  small  quantities, 
then  the  whites.— Mrs.  H.  E.  Seem  an. 

WHITE  FRUIT  CAKE.  Two  pounds  of  almonds,  two  eocoanuts,  two  pounds 
of  citron,  one  teaspoonful  mace,  one  wine-glass  wine,  juice  of  half  of  lemon. 
To  a  pound  cake  batter,  add  the  grated  cocoanut,  the  blanched  almonds  (chopped) 
after  being  rolled  in  flour,  the  citron  finely  chopped  having  same  chopped  in  thin 
one-inch  strips,  after  being  rolled  in  floir;  the  mace,  lemon  juice  and  wine. 
Mix  well  and  pour  into  a  well  greased  papered  deep  pan.  Bake  in  a  slow  oven 
for  four  hours. — Mrs.  S.  Bowling. 

SOFT  CAKE.  Five  eggs,  one  pound  flour,  one  cup  sweet  milk,  one  half  pound 
butter,  one  pound  siiuar,  two  tc;ispoonf uls  baking  powder,  flavor  to  taste.  When 
you  wish  the  cake  wliite,  use  whites  of  nine  eggs. — Mrs.  M.  F.  Markham. 

GOOD  CAKE  FOR  FILLING.  Eight  eggs,  one  quart  of  flour,  one-half  pound 
butter,  one  pint  sugar,  flavor  to  taste,  one -half  cup  SAveet  milk,  one  teaspoon 
baking  powder. — Mrs.  M.  F.  Markham. 

GOLD  CAKE.  Take  the  yolks  of  eight  eggs,  one  whole  egg,  one-half  cup 
butter,  one  and  one-half  cups  sugar  (granulated),  three-fourths  cup  of  fresh 
buttermilk  (sweet,  if  preferred),  two  cups  flour,  one  teaspoonful  of  cream  of 
tr.rtar,  one-half  teaspoon  soda.  Beat  well  and  bake  as  a  pound  cake. — Mrs. 
G.  E.  LouGEE,  Jr. 

POUND  CAKE.  One  pound  granulated  sugar,  one  pound  butter,  one  dozen 
eggs,  one  pound  flour.  Sift  flour  three  times.  Cream  butter,  add  the  flour, 
cream  Avell,  then  add  beaten  yolks  of  eggs,  which  have  been  thoroughly  beaten 

18 


USE  DAN  RIVER  SELF-RISING  FLOUR 


See  that  the  name  K-N-O-X  is  on  each  package  of  gelatine  you  buy 


with  the  sugar.  Add  the  Avhites  last  Avhieh  have  been  well-beaten.  Place  eake 
in  moderate  oven.  Put  a  pan  of  cold  \v;iter  on  top  rack,  let  stay  until  cake 
has  risen,  then  remove  pan  to  let  the  cake  bake.  If  you  cook  this  cake  in  gas 
range,  it  usually  takes  from  one  and  one-half  to  two  hours  to  bake. — Mrs.  W.  8. 
Borland. 

WHITE  CAKE.  Whites  of  six  eggs,  three  cups  flour,  one  and  three-fourths 
cups  sugar,  three-fourths  cup  butter,  three-fourths  cup  sAveet  milk,  two  rounding 
teaspoonfuls  baking  powder.  Cream  butter  and  sugar  until  light,  then  add 
alternately  flour  and  milk,  then  eggs  beaten  stiff.  This  makes  three  layers. 
— Mrs.  M.  F.  Markham. 

FUDGE  CAKE.  Two  cups  sugar,  one  cup  butter,  six  eggs,  one  cup  milk, 
four  cups  flour,  two  heaping  teaspoons  Royal  Baking  Powder,  one-half  cake  or 
one  whole  small  cake  chocolate,  one  cup  English  walnuts,  broken  up.  Cream 
butter  and  sugar,  add  milk,  then  stir  in  the  chocolate  which  has  been  dissolved 
in  cup  placed  in  pan  of  hot  water.  Add  nuts  and  last  the  eggs  beaten  separately. 
— Mrs.  G.  E.  Lougee,  Jr. 

FUDGE  FILLING.  One  and  one-half  teaspoons  butter,  one-half  cup  un- 
sweetened cocoa,  one  and  one-half  cups  powdered  sugar,  a  few  grains  of  salt, 
one  cup  milk,  one  teaspoon  vanilla.  Melt  the  butter,  add  cocoa,  sugar,  milk  and 
salt.  Heat  to  boiling  point  and  boil  eight  minutes,  beat  until  creamy.  Add 
vanilla,  spread  on  cake. — ]Mrs.  Geo.  E.  Lougee,  Jr. 

FRUIT  CAKES.  One  pound  butter,  one  pound  sugar,  one  pound  flour, 
browned  and  sifted,  twelve  eggs,  five  pounds  seeded  raisins,  one  and  one-half 
pounds  peeled  citron,  one  glass  grape  jelly,  two  teaspoons  melted  chocolate,  one 
pound  crystallized  cherries,  one  pound  sliced  pineapple,  one  pound  blanched  al- 
monds, cut  fine;  one  pound  figs,  one  tablespoon  powdered  cinnamon,  one-half 
tablespoonful  allspice,  one  scant  teaspoonful  powdered  cloves,  one  glass  brandy. 
Soak  the  fruit  in  brandy  overnight.  Cream  the  butter  and  sugar  thoroughly. 
Add  well-beaten  yolks  of  eggs,  tl^en  spices,  grape  jelly  and  chocolate.  Xext  add 
the  beaten  whites  of  eggs  and  part  of  the  flour.  Roll  fruit  in  the  rest  of  the 
flour,  mix  it  into  the  cake  in  small  quantities  at  the  time,  add  nuts  last.  Bake 
or  steam  cake  from  four  to  six  hours  in  small  or  large  molds.  If  steamed,  dry 
out  in  slow  oven  one  hour. — Mrs.  W.  A.  Mabry. 

CLAY  CAKE.  Six  eggs,  one  cup  butter,  two  cups  sugar,  four  cups  flour, 
one  teaspoonful  soda  dissolved  in  one  cup  milk,  two  teaspoonfuls  cream  of  tar- 
tar (sifted  with  the  flour.)  One  cup  butter.  Flavor  with  vanilla.  Separate  the 
eggs,  cream  butter  and  sugar,  add  yolks  which  have  been  well-beaten.  Then  add 
the  milk  and  flour  alternately.  Lastly  mix  in  the  stiffly  beaten  whites.  This 
makes  four  layers.  Use  any  filling  preferred.  Yoti  Avill  find  this  to  be  a  great 
favorite.  If  you  Avish  you  can  bake  this  in  a  loaf  also.  Snowdrift  and  w'ater 
can  be  used  in  place  of  butter  and  milk — Miss  Maggie  V.  Albright. 

BLACK  CHOCOLATE  CAKE.  One-half  cup  butter,  tAvo  cups  broAvn  sugar, 
(cream  butter  and  sugar  until  smooth),  three-fourths  tAventy-five  cent  cake  of 
chocolate,  dissolved  and  poured  into  above  mixture  sloAvly.  Four  eggs  beaten 
together,  three-fourths  cup  sAA'eet  milk,  one  teaspoonful  soda  in  milk.  tAvo  cups 
flour. — Mrs.  P.  A.  Noell. 

FILLING.  One  pound  -IX  sugar,  three  fourths  cup  butter,  one-half  twenty- 
five  cent  can  cocoa,  ten  cent  bottle  vanilla,  enough  strong  coftee  to  mix.  Cream 
butter  and  sugar  until  smooth.  One-half  pound  of  broAvn  and  one-half  pound  of 
white  sugar  may  be  used  if  preferred. — ]\[rs.  P.  A.  Xoell. 

APPLE  SAUCE  CAKE.  Tavo  and  one-half  cups  flour,  one  teaspoonful  Royal 
Baking  PoAvder,  three-fourths  teaspoonful  salt,  tAA'o  and  one-half  teaspoonfuls 
spices.  Sift  the  flour  and  baking  poAvder,  one  and  one-half  cups  sugar,  one- 
half  cup  butter,  or  Crisco,  tAvo  eggs,  one  cup  sour  apple  sauce,  one  cup  raisins, 
one  teaspoonful  soda  added  to  last  half  cup  of  apple  sauce  and  mixed  Avith 
batter.   Bake  in  a  hot  oven.   This  makes  three  layers. — Mrs.  W.  H.  Booxe. 

10 

USE  DAN  VALLEY  SUPERLATIVE  FLOUR 


KNOX  ACIDULATED  GELATINE— no  bother— no  trouble— no  squeezing  lemons 


TILLING  FOE  APPLE  SAUCE  CAKE.  Three-fourths  cup  granulated  sugar, 
one-third  cup  boiling  water,  one  egg  white^  one  half  cup  pecans  (shelled.)  Melt 
the  sugar  in  boiling  water,  stirring  until  sugar  is  melted.  Cover  and  let  boil 
for  three  minutes.  Uncover  and  boil  till  it  forms  a  hard  ball  in  cold  water, 
pour  over  the  egg-white  which  has  been  beaten  very  light.  Beat  till  cool  enough 
to  hold  its  shape.  Spread  on  layers,  then  sprinkle  on  the  pecans.  Double  this 
recipe  for  three  layers. — Mrs,  W.  H.  Boone. 

SOFT  GINGEE  CAKE.  One-half  cup  sugar,  one  cup  butter,  one  cup 
molasses,  two  teaspoonfuls  soda,  one  teaspoonful  ginger  or  spices,  one  egg,  three 
cups  flour.  Pour  one  cupful  boiling  water  on  the  soda.  Mix  butter,  sugar, 
molasses  and  egg,  add  flour  and  the  soda  water  just  before  baking  in  a  hot 
oven.    Very  light  and  delicious. — Mrs.  W.  H.  Boone. 

DEVIL'S  FOOD  CAKE.  Two  and  one  half  cups  sugar,  one  cup  butter,  one- 
half  cup  chocolate,  dissolved  in  cup  of  hot  water.  One  cup  buttermilk,  three 
cups  flour,  one  teaspoonful  soda,  dissolved  in  hot  water,  two  eggs,  one  table- 
spoonful  vanilla,  one  teaspoonful  each  cinnamon,  nutmeg,  cloves  and  allspice. 
Make  batter  in  the  usual  way  and  bake  in  layers. — Mrs.  M.  F.  Markham. 

FILLING  FOE  DEVIL'S  FOOD  CAKE.  Two  and  one-half  cups  sugar  (one- 
half  brown),  one-half  cup  water,  one-half  cup  cream,  one  square  chocolate. 
Moisten  chocolate  over  boiling  water  and  add  sugar  and  water.  Boil  until 
proper  consistency  and  beat  until  cool. — Mrs.  M.  F.  Markham. 

PEINCE  OF  WALES  CAKE.  Dark  part:  Yolks  three  eggs,  three  fourths 
cups  butter,  two  cups  flour,  one  cup  raisins,  one  cup  currants  or  cherries,  one  cup 
brown  sugar,  one-half  cup  milk,  one  tablespoon  molasses,  one  teaspoon  cinnamon, 
nutmeg,  one  teaspoon  Eoyal  Baking  Powder.  Light  part :  one  cup  white  sugar, 
one-half  cup  butter,  one-half  cup  sweet  milk,  one  and  one-half  cup  flour,  one 
half  cup  corn  starch,  whites  of  three  eggs,  one  teaspoon  Eoyal  Baking  Powder. 
Cream  the  butter  and  sugar,  then  eggs  and  milk,  add  fruit,  and  last  the  flour. 
— Mrs.  J.  L.  Whitmore. 

FILLING  FOR  PEINCE  OF  WALES  CAKE.  Two  cups  brown  sugar,  two- 
thirds  cups  water.  Cook  until  it  makes  a  soft  ball.  Pour  upon  beaten  white? 
of  two  eggs.   Add  one-eighth  pound  crushed  nuts.  — Mrs.  J.  L.  Whitmore. 

DAEK  FEUIT  CAKE,  Cream  one  pound  of  sugar,  one  pound  of  butter  until 
light,  then  add  ten  well-beaten  eggs,  and  one  pound  of  flour,  reserving  some  of 
it  to  flour  the  fruit.  Spice  the  batter  with  nutmeg,  cinnamon  and  cloves.  Two 
pounds  raisins,  two  pounds  currants,  one  pound  citron,  one  pound  English  Aval- 
nuts,  one  pound  of  figs.  Flour  the  fruit,  stir  into  the  batter,  then  add  one  cupful 
cold  water  into  which  one  teaspoonful  of  soda  has  been  dissolved.  The  water 
prevents  its  being  dry. — Mrs.  A.  G.  Elliott. 

DEVIL'S  FOOD  CAKE.  Two  eggs,  tAvo  cups  brown  sugar,  one  half  cup 
butter,  one-half  cup  sour  milk,  one-half  cup  hot  water,  one-third  cake  of  Baker 's 
Chocolate,  two  cups  flour,  one  teaspoonful  soda.  Cream  the  butter  and  the 
sugar,  add  eggs  and  beat ;  add  milk  and  part  of  flour.  Dissolve  chocolate  in 
hot  water,  put  into  this  the  soda,  then  put  in  the  batter  with  rest  of  flour. 
— Mrs.  J.  A.  Snipes. 

FILLING  FOE  DEVIL'S  FOOD  CAKE.  Two  cups  Avhite  sugar,  one-half 
cup  water  and  let  it  cook  until  it  threads.  Whites  of  two  eggs  well-beaten  and 
pour  syrup  into  the  whites  and  beat  until  stilf.  Chopped  nuts  or  raisins  may  be 
added  to  this. — Mrs.  J.  A.  Snipes. 

POUND  CAKE  BY  MEASUEE.  Seven  eggs,  two  cups  sugar,  one  and  one- 
half  cups  butter,  one  and  one -half  pints  flour,  one  teaspoonful  Eoyal  Baking 
Powder.  Cream  the  sugar  and  the  butter  together,  then  break  one  egg  at  a  time 
until  you  break  three,  beating  five  minutes  each,  then  break  two  at  a  time  and 
beat  five  minutes  each  till  you  have  used  the  seven  eggs.  Put  baking  powder  in 
flour  and  sift  nine  times.  Cook  fifty-five  minutes  in  moderatelv  hot  oven. — Mrs. 
T.  L.  Bailey. 

20 


USE  DAN  RIVER  SELF-RISING  FLOUR 


Where  recipes  call  for  Gelatine  use  KNOX  GELATINE 


SOFT  MOLASSES  CAKE.  One-half  cup  shortening,  two  thirds  cup  brown 
sugar,  one  egg,  one-half  cup  molasses,  two-thirds  cup  milk,  tAvo  cups  Hour,  three 
teaspoons  Eoyal  Baking  Powder,  one-half  teaspoon  allspice,  one-half  teaspoon 
cinnamon,  one-half  teaspoon  salt.  Cream  shortening  well,  add  sugar  slowly,  beat- 
ing continually;  add  beaten  egg.  Beat  well  and  add  molasses,  half  of  the 
flour,  baking  powder,  salt  and  spices  w'hich  have  been  sifted  together.  Add  the 
milk  and  the  rest  of  the  dry  ingredients,  Mix  w'ell  and  bake  in  a  greased 
shallow  pan  in  moderate  oven  about  forty  minutes.  Serve  hot. — Mrs.  J.  A. 
Snipes. 

NUT  LOAF.  Two  cupfuls  flour,  four  teaspoonfuls  Eoyal  Baking  Powder, 
one  teaspoonful  salt,  one-half  cupful  sugar,  five  tablespoonfuls  Crisco,  one  egg, 
one  cupful  milk,  one  half  cupful  English  walnuts,  one-half  -cupful  raisins.  Sift 
dry  ingredients.  Pinch  or  cut  in  Crisco.  Beat  the  egg  well  and  to  it  add 
milk  and  beat  into  dry  ingredients.  Add  nuts  and  raisins.  Beat  thoroughly, 
pour  into  Criscoed  pans  (bread  pans  are  good.)  Let  stand  in  warm  place 
twenty  minutes.    Bake  forty  minutes  in  a  moderate  oven. — Mrs.  Joe  Albright. 

SPICE  CAKE.  Two  cups  brown  sugar,  one  cup  sour  cream,  one  cup  butter, 
two  cups  flour,  four  eggs  (leave  out  the  Avhites  of  two  for  icing),  two  tablespoon- 
fuls cinnamon,  one  teaspoonful  cloves,  one  teaspoonful  nutmeg,  one  teaspoonful 
soda.    Bake  in  layers  and  put  together  with  white  icing. — Mrs.  J.  S.  Mesley. 

WHITE  CAKE  (OF  COCOANUT.)  Cream  three-fourths  cup  butter,  to 
it  add  one  and  one-half  cups  sugar,  one-half  cup  sweet  milk,  two  and  one-half 
cups  flour,  whites  of  six  eggs  beaten  to  a  stiff  froth.  Flavor  to  taste.  Use 
cocoanut  filling. — Mrs.  J.  S.  Mesley. 

CHOCOLATE  CAKE.  One  cup  butter,  tAvo  cups  sugar,  two  cups  flour,  one 
cup  mashed  Irish  potatoes,  one-half  cup  milk,  one-half  cuj)  melted  chocolate, 
one  cup  chopped  nuts,  four  eggs,  two  teaspoonfuls  Eoyal  Baking  Powder,  one 
teaspoonful  cinnamon,  one  teaspoonful  cloves,  one  teaspoonful  nutmeg,  one  tea- 
spoonful vanilla. — Mrs.  G.  F.  Warner. 

FILLING  FOE  CHOCOLATE  CAKE.  One  egg  yolk,  one  cup  sugar,  one 
tablespoon  butter,  one  cup  SAveet  milk,  one-half  cup  melted  chocolate.  Cook 
until  thick,  then  beat  six  marshmallows  into  it. — Mrs.  G.  F.  Warner. 

YELLOW  SPONGE  CAKE.  Four  eggs  beaten  separately.  Beat  whites  stiff 
and  add  two  teaspoonfuls  cream  tartar,  one  and  one-half  cups  sugar,  then  put 
in  the  yellows,  one  cup  SAveet  milk  last,  tAvo  and  one  half  cups  flour  Avith  tAvo 
teaspoonfuls  soda.    Mix  lightly  and  bake  quickly.— rj\lRS.  M.  F.  Markham. 

FEUIT  CAKE.  Eighteen  eggs,  one  and  one-half  pounds  flour,  one  and  one- 
half  pounds  sugar,  one  and  one-half  pounds  butter,  tAvo  pounds  raisins,  tAvo 
pounds  currants,  one  and  one  half  pounds  citron,  tAvo  nutmegs,  tAvo  pounds 
almonds,  tAvo  tablespoonfuls  cinnamon,  tAvo  tablespoonfuls  mace,  one  small  tea- 
spoonful cloves,  one  small  teaspoonful  salt,  tAvo  small  teaspoonfuls  ginger,  tAvo 
wine  glasses  of  wine,  one  ten  spoonful  soda,  tAvo  teaspoonfuls  cream  tartar  in  one 
cup  sAveet  milk. — Mrs.  E.  E.  Bernard. 

ONE  EGG  CAKE.  One-third  cup  shortening,  one  cup  sugar,  one  egg,  one 
cup  milk,  scant  teaspoonful  soda,  tAvo  cups  flour,  tAvo  teaspoonfuls  Eoyal  Bak- 
ing PoAvder,  flavor  to  taste. — Mrs.  Oscar  Pleasants. 

SPONGE  CAKE.  Two  cups  sugar,  four  eggs,  tAvo  cups  flour,  tAvo  tablespoon- 
fuls Eoyal  Baking  PoAvder,  one  teaspoonful  lemon,  three-fourths  cup  boiling 
AA'ater  added  last.  Cream  yolks  and  sugar,  add  beaten  Avhites,  flour  and  lemon, 
and  boiling  water.  Bake  forty-five  minutes  in  moderate  OA'en. — Mrs.  Oscar 
Pleasants. 

NEVEE  FAIL  CHOCOLATE  CAKE.  Four  eggs,  tAvo  cups  broAvn  sugar, 
one-half  cup  butter,  one  teaspoonful  soda  sifted  Avith  tAvo  cups  flour,  one-half 
cake  Baker's  Chocolate,  grated  and  melted,  one-half  cup  SAveet  milk,  one  tea- 
spoonful vanilla.    Cream  butter  and  sugar  together  thoroughly,  add  eggs  one 

21 


USE  DAN  VALLEY  SUPERLATIVE  FLOUR 


FOUR  PINTS  of  jelly  in  each  package  of  KNOX  GELATINE 


at  a  time,  beating  the  mixture  constantly.  Alternate  the  milk  and  flour,  adding 
it  gradually.  Have  ready  the  melted  chocolate  and  when  cool  enough  mix  Avell 
with  the  batter.  Bake  in  three  layers  and  put  together  with  the  following  icing: 
Whites  of  three  eggs,  three  cups  sugar  and  the  juice  of  one  lemon.  Beat  the 
eggs  to  a  stiff  froth.  Boil  sugar  with  small  cup  water  until  it  ropes,  then  pour 
in  eggs  and  stir  hard. — Mrs.  Bettie  Bernard. 

LADY  BALTIMOEE  CAKE.  One  cup  butter,  two  cups  sugar,  one  cup  milk, 
four  cups  sifted  flour,  eight  level  teaspoonfuls  Eoyal  Baking  Powder,  eight 
eggs,  one  teaspoonful  extract  almond  or  one  each  of  vanilla  and  grated  nutmeg. 
Bake  in  three  or  four  layers  and  put  together  with  an  icing  made  as  follows: 
Two  cups  sugar  and  two-thirds  cup  boiling  water  (to  soft  ball  degree.)  Pour 
this  over  the  stiffly  beaten  whites  of  two  eggs,  beating  constantly.  Add  two 
cups  chopped  English  walnuts,  two  cups  raisins,  cut  in  half.  Flavor  with  one 
teaspoonful  rose  water  or  one-half  teaspoonful  vanilla. — Mrs.  E.  W.  Morris. 
(If  one-fourth  teaspoonful  cream  of  tartar  be  added  just  as  the  syrup  begins 
to  boil,  the  icing  is  more  creamy.) 

STEAWBEERY  SHOET  CAKE.  Sift  together:  Two  cups  flour,  one  tea- 
spoonful salt,  four  teaspoonfuls  Eoyal  Baking  Powder.  Flake  into  this,  three 
tablespoonfuls  butter,  add  one  egg  (well-beaten)  and  enough  sweet  milk  to  make 
a  soft  pastry.  Divide  pastry  into  two  equal  parts,  and  roll  out  into  two  layers 
to  fit  a  nine  or  ten  inch  cake  pan,  putting  melted  butter  between  the  layers. 
Bake  in  a  moderate  oven  for  twenty  minutes.  Prepare  one  quart  of  crushed  and 
sweetened  berries  and  when  cake  is  baked,  put  this  mixture  between  the  layers. 
Cover  the  top  with  wliipped  cream  and  decorate  with  large  strawberries. — Mrs. 

E.  W.  Morris. 

DELICATE  CAKE.  Four  cups  of  flour,  two  and  one-half  cups  of  sugar,  one 
cup  sweet  milk,  one  cup  butter,  six  eggs,  two  ten  spoonfuls  Eoyal  Baking  Powder. 
Cream  sugar  and  butter,  add  the  beaten  yolks,  then  milk  and  flour,  adding  last 
the  l)eaten  whites  and  flavoring  (two  teaspoonfuls.)  Use  any  desired  filling. 
— Mrs.  D.  F.  Parker. 

WHITE  CAKE.  One  cup  sweet  milk,  one  cup  butter,  two  cups  sugar,  four 
light  cups  flour;  whites  of  eight  eggs.  Cream  butter  and  sugar,  add  two  cups 
flour  with  two  teaspoonfuls  Eoyal  Baking  Powder,  then  the  cup  of  milk,  adding 
other  two  cups  of  flour.    Vanilla  flavoring. — Mrs.  C.  B.  Green. 

GOLD  CAKE.  Yolks  of  eight  eggs,  one  cup  sugar,  one-half  cup  butter  or 
Snowdrift,  one-half  cup  sweet  milk,  one  and  one-half  cups  flour,  two  teaspoon- 
fuls Eoyal  Baking  Powder.  Beat  the  eggs  well  and  add  sugar  and  butter,  beat 
well,  then  add  flour  and  milk.    Flavor. — Mrs.  C.  B.  Green. 

BLACK  CHOCOLATE  CAKE.  Yolks  of  three  eggs,  two  cups  brown  sugar, 
one  cup  sweet  milk,  one-half  pound  cake  of  Baker's  Chocolate  grated.  Cook  this 
mixture  until  thick  and  when  cool,  add  the  following  batter:  one  cup  butter, 
two  cups  brown  sugar,  four  eggs,  four  cups  sifted  flour,  one  cup  sweet  milk, 
one  tablespoonful  vanilla,  one  teaspoonful  soda,  dissolved  in  a  little  sweet  milk, 
bake  in  layers. — Mrs.  Fielding  L.  Walker,  Jr. 

ICING  FOE  BLACK  CHOCOLATE  CAKE.  Use  the  whites  of  three  eggs, 
three  cups  confectioner's  sugar  and  juice  of  one  lemon.  Beat  the  eggs  to  a  stiff 
froth,  boil  the  sugar  with  a  small  cup  of  water.  Cook  until  it  spins  several  threads, 
then  pour  it  into  the  eggs,  beating  until  it  becomes  creamy.    Add  lemon. — Mrs. 

F.  L.  Walker,  Jr. 

COCOANUT  CAKE.  Whites  of  six  eggs,  two  cups  powdered  sugar,  three- 
fonrtlis  cup  liutter,  one  cup  sweet  milk,  four  cups  flour,  two  teaspoonfuls  Eoyal 
Bnkiuu  Powder,  one  teaspoonful  lemon  flavoring.  Bake  this  as  a  loaf  cake,  trim 
ail  the  Inown  off",  slice  the  loaf  around,  dividing  into  four  layers.  Grate  two 
cocoanuts,  stir  in  the  icing  and  spread  between  layers  and  on  edges. — Mrs.  Fan- 
nie GOOCH. 

22 


USE  DAN  RIVER  SELF-RISING  FLOUR 


KNOX  GELATINE  is  measured  ready  for  use — each  package  is 
divided  into  two  envelopes 


SUNSHIXE  CAKE,  Whites  of  ten  eggs,  yolks  of  six  eggs,  one  half  teaspoon- 
ful  salt,  one  teaspoonful  cream  of  tartar,  one  half  teaspoonful  lemon  extract,  one 
and  one-half  cups  sugar,  one  cup  flour.  Beat  the  "whites  of  eggs,  add  cream  of 
tartar,  salt  flavoring.  Add  sugar  and  beat,  add  beaten  yolks,  using  as  few 
strokes  as  possible,  add  sifted  flour.    Bake  slowly. — Mrs.  L.  S.  Booker. 

CHOCOLATE  CAKE.  One  cup  butter  (or  Snowdrift),  tAvo  cups  brown  sugar, 
four  cups  flour  sifted  before  measuring,  and  then  sifted  three  times,  four  eggs 
beaten  well  separately),  one  cup  sAveet  milk,  two  teaspoonfuls  soda,  dissolved  in 
milk.  Mix  as  any  other  cake.  Then  add  one-half  cake  chocolate  (or  one-half 
box  cocoa.)  One  and  one-third  cups  of  brown  sugar,  one  cup  sweet  milk,  two 
teaspoonfuls  vanilla,  two  yolks  of  eggs,  cook  to  a  stiff  consistency  and  add  to  the 
above  batter.  Put  together  with  an  icing  made  from  the  two  whites. — Mrs.  E.  J. 
Parrish, 

BLACK  CHOCOLATE  CAKE.  Four  eggs,  two  cups  broAvn  sugar,  one-half  cup 
butter,  two  cups  flour,  one-half  cake  Baker's  Chocolate,  grated  and  melted,  one- 
half  cup  sweet  milk,  one  teaspoon  soda  dissolved  in  milk. — Mrs.  J.  S.  Mesley. 

WHITE  FEL^IT  CAKE.  One  pound  flour,  '  *  Swan 's  DoAvn, ' '  one  pound  sugar, 
one  pound  butter,  one  dozen  eggs,  one  Avine-glass  each  brandy  and  wine,  one  and 
three-f ourtlis  teaspoonful  powdered  mace,  two  pounds  citron,  cut  fine,  one-half 
pound  shelled  almonds,  cut  fine,  tAvo  cocoanuts  run  through  meat  chopper,  one- 
half  pound  carded  cherries,  one  fourth  pound  candied  ginger  and  orange  peel, 
juice  of  one  and  one  half  lemon.  To  mix,  cream  butter  and  sugar,  add  yolks, 
then  milk,  next  flour,  then  the  spices,  add  AA-hites  of  eggs,  last  the  fruits  and  wine 
and  brandy.  Bake  in  a  cool  oven  three  hours  to  a  light  broAA'u,  not  dark. — Mrs. 
E.  J.  Parrish. 

WHITE  CAKE.  Whites  of  nine  eggs,  one  cup  butter  or  substitute,  one  and 
one-half  cups  of  SAveet  milk,  four  and  one-half  cups  flour  measured  after  it  has 
been  sifted  (fill  measure  Avith  spoon),  three  teaspoonfuls  Eoyal  Baking  PoAvder, 
pinch  salt,  flavor  to  taste.  Cream  the  butter  A^ery  light,  adding  a  little  sugar  at 
a  time,  beat  AA-ell.  Then  sift  the  flour,  salt  and  baking  powder  three  times,  adding 
alternately  with  the  milk  to  butter  and  sugar.  Flavor  and  fold  in  lightly  the 
AA'ell-beaten  whites.  Bake  at  once  either  in  layers  or  as  a  loaf. — Mrs.  'E.  J. 
Parrsh. 

GOOD  CHEAP  CAKE.  One  cup  SnoAvdrift,  pinch  of  salt,  tAvo  cups  sugar,  six 
eggs,  beat  separately,  one  cup  SAveet  milk  or  Avater,  four  cups  flour  sifted  three 
times,  one  teaspoonful  soda  and  tAvo  of  cream  of  tartar  in  flour.  Flavor  to  taste. 
— Mrs.  H.  E.  Seemax. 

BLACK  CAKE.  Two  cups  broAvn  sugar,  one  cup  SnoAvdrift,  pinch  salt,  three- 
fourths  cake  chocolate,  one  cup  sAA'eet  milk,  three  cups  flour  (^sifted  twice),  four 
eggs,  one  teaspoonful  soda  in  enough  hot  water  to  mix  Avell,  add  this  last  thing. 
Melt  the  chocolate  and  put  in  after  the  cake  is  mixed. — Mrs.  H.  E.  Seemax. 

WHITE  LILY  CAKE.  Whites  of  six  eggs,  tAVO  cups  sugar,  three  cups  flour, 
one  cup  SAA'eet  milk,  three-fourths  cup  butter  and  two  heaping  teaspoonfuls  Eoyal 
Baking  PoAvder.    Use  any  flavoring  desired. — Mrs.  E.  B.  Suitt. 

DAXDY  OHIO  CAKE.  Two  cupfuls  sugar,  not  quite  tAvo-thirds  of  a  cupful 
of  butter,  three  cupfuls  flour,  one  cupful  SAveet  milk,  tliree  eggs  and  three  teaspoor.- 
f  uls  Eoyal  Baking  PoAvdcr ;  Avhen  mixed  put  tAvo-thirds  of  the  mixture  into  two 
tins;  to  the  remaining  one-third  add  three  tablespoonfuls  of  molasses,  one-fourth 
of  a  teaspoonful  of  cloA^es,  one-half  teaspoonful  of  cinnamon  and  one  cupful 
raisins,  seeded  and  chopped.  Bake  this  in  third  tin.  Put  the  three  layers  together 
Avith  the  dark  one  in  the  center  with  frosting  between  and  on  top.  In  mixing, 
put  together  the  usual  way,  except  reserve  one-half  cupful  of  flour  till  the  last 
and  in  it  stir  the  baking  poAvder,  adding  a  very  little  pinch  of  salt. — Mrs.  K.  B. 
Suitt. 


23 

USE  DAN  VALLEY  SUPERLATIVE  FLOUR 


KNOX  GELATINE  solves  the  problem  of  ''What  to  have  for  dessert?*' 


POUND  CAKE.  One  pound  sugar,  one  pound  flour,  one  pound  butter,  one 
dozen  eggs.  Sift  and  dry  flour,  cream  butter  well,  gradually  adding  sugar  and 
beating  the  mixture  till  very  light.  Then  beat  eggs  (whites  and  yolks  separately) 
to  a  stiff  froth,  add  them  gradually  to  the  sugar  and  butter  alternately  with 
the  flour,  till  all  the  ingredients  are  thoroughly  mixed.  Flavor  to  taste. — Mrs. 
H.  E.  Seeman. 

ONE-EGG  CAKE.    One  egg,  three  fourths  cup  sugar,  one-fourth  cup  shorten- 
ing, one-half  cup  milk,  one  and  one-half  cups  of  flour,  two  and  one -half  tea- 
spoonfuls  baking  j)owder,  three-fourths  teaspoonful  salt,  one-half  teaspoonful 
vanilla.    All  measurements  level.    Bake  either  in  tAvo  pans  or  one  loaf. — Mrs.  A. 
M.  Gates. 

APPLE  CAKE.  One  cup  sugar,  one-half  cup  shortening,  one  cup  unsweet- 
ened stewed  apples  into  which  beat  one  teaspoon  soda,  two  cups  flour,  one-half 
teaspoonful  each  cinnamon,  salt  and  nutmeg,  one  cup  raisins  dusted  with  flour. 
Nuts  may  be  added  if  desired.  Bake  in  a  loaf  one  hour  in  a  moderate  oven.  May 
be  baked  in  muffin  pans  successfully. — Mrs.  A.  M.  Gates. 

COFFEE  CAKE.  Two  cups  flour,  one-half  cup  shortening,  one  full  cup  sugar, 
three-fourths  teaspoonful  salt.  Mix  like  pie  crust.  Take  over  one-half  cup  of 
mixture  to  which  add  one  teaspoonful  cinnamon.  To  the  remainder  of  the  mix- 
ture add  one-half  teaspoonful  soda  and  one  teaspoon  of  baking  powder,  one  cup 
sour  milk.  Put  the  cake  in  a  pan  and  spread  the  cinnamon  mixture  over  the  top 
like  icing.  Bake  in  a  moderate  oven  for  about  twenty  minutes  if  shallow  pan 
is  used. — Mrs.  A.  M.  Gates. 

SPICE  CAKE.  (Three  layers).  Two  cwps  brown  sugar,  tAvo  cups  flour,  (meas- 
ure before  sifting),  four  eggs  (leaving  out  two  whites  for  icing),  one  cup  butter 
or  butter  and  Snowdrift,  one  cup  sour  milk  with  a  big  teaspoonful  soda.  One 
nutmeg,  two  tablespoonfuls  cinnamon,  one-fourth  teaspoonful  ground  cloves. — Mrs. 
E.  C.  Lipscomb. 

ICING  FOE  SPICE  CAKE.  Two  cups  sugar,  one-half  cup  water,  boil  till 
spins  thread  and  pour  slowly  on  well-beaten  whites.  Add  at  once  two  tablespoon- 
fuls marshmallow  cream  and  vanilla  to  taste. — Mrs.  E.  C.  Lipscomb. 

CAEAMEL  cake.  One  cup  butter  (or  half  butter  and  one-half  Snowdrift), 
two  cups  sugar,  whites  of  eight  eggs,  four  cups  sifted  flour,  four  level  teaspoonfuls 
Eoyal  Baking  Powder,  one  cup  Avarm  Avater,  one  teaspoon  each  lemon  and  vanilla. 
Cream  the  butter,  add  sugar  gradually,  beating  aa'cII;  then  add  the  unbeaten 
Avhites  of  eggs,  mixing  in  thoroughly.  Next  add  flour  Avith  AA'hich  baking  j)OAvder 
has  been  sifted  three  times,  and  water  alternately,  then  add  the  flavoring,  bake 
in  layers  and  put  together  Avith  caramel  filling. — Mrs.  S.  C.  Braats^ley. 

CAEAMEL  FILLING.  Tavo  pounds  of  light  broAvn  sugar,  one  and  one- 
iourth  cup  Avater,  one  teaspoonful  salt,  butter  size  of  large  egg,  vanilla  to  flavor. 
Boil  sugar  and  Avater  till  it  forms  a  \^ery  soft  mass  AA'hen  tried  in  cold  AA-ater. 
So  soft  that  it  cannot  be  taken  up  Avith  the  fingers.  Eemove  from  the  fire, 
add  salt  and  butter,  and  beat  until  it  becomes  a  creamy  mass;  flavor  and  spread 
at  once.    Place  OA^er  hot  Avater  if  it  becomes  too  stiff. — Mrs.  S.  C.  Beawley. 

WHITE  LAYEE  CAKE.  One-half  cup  butter,  one  and  one-half  cups  sugar, 
one-half  cup  milk,  one  and  one-half  cups  flour,  one  teaspoonful  Eoyal  Baking 
PoAvder,  one-third  teaspoonful  salt,  one  teaspoonful  flavoring,  Avhites  of  four 
eggs.  Beat  the  butter  and  the  sugar  to  a  cream;  add  the  milk  and  flavoring,  then 
the  flour,  salt  and  the  baking  poAvder  sifted  together.  Beat  very  thoroughly 
and  then  fold  in  very  gently  the  stiffly  beaten  Avhites  of  the  eggs.  Bake  about 
tAventy  minutes  in  layer  cake  pans  putting  the  layers  together  Avith  any  desired 
filling. — Mrs.  E.  W.  Morris. 

BEST  EVEE  CAKE.  One  cup  butter,  tAvo  cups  sugar,  one  cup  sweet  milk, 
three  cups  flour,  one-half  cup  corn  starch,  four  eggs,  tAvo  teaspoonfuls  Eoyal 
Baking  PoAvder,  flavor  and  bake  in  layers  or  in  a  loaf. — Mrs.  M.  S.  Whitted. 

24 


USE  DAN  RIVER  SELF-RISING  FLOUR 


KNOX  GELATINE  is  economical— FOUR  PINTS  in  each  package 


SILVEE  LOAF  CAKE.  Three-fourths  pound  butter,  one  pound  sugar,  whites 
of  sixteen  eggs,  one  pound  flour,  one  teaspoonful  soda,  two  teaspoonfuls  of  cream 
of  tartar. — Mrs.  M.  S.  Whitted. 

ANGEL  FOOD  CAKE.  One  cup  flour,  one  and  one-half  cups  sugar,  whites 
of  ten  eggs,  two  teaspoonfuls  cream  of  tartar.  Mix  flour,  sugar  and  cream  of 
tartar  and  sift  three  or  four  times,  add  this  sloAvly  to  the  well-beaten  eggs.  Bake 
in  two  pans. — Mrs.  Maynard  Mangum. 

FILLING  FOE  ANGEL  FOOD  CAKE.  Two  cups  sugar,  one-half  cup  water. 
Boil  until  it  spins  a  thread  and  beat  into  the  Avell-beaten  whites  of  two  eggs. 
— Mrs.  Maynard  Mangttm. 

ONE,  TWO,  THEEE,  FOUE  CAKE.  One  cup  butter,  one  cup  sweet  milk, 
tAvo  cups  sugar,  two  teaspoonfuls  baking  powder,  three  cups  flour,  four  eggs; 
flavoring  to  taste.  Cream  the  butter  and  sugar  together,  add  eggs,  one  at  a 
time  beating  all  the  while,  then  add  milk.  Sift  well  flour  and  the  baking  powder, 
then  add  this  little  by  little  to  the  mixture,  beat  hurriedly  for  a  short  while, 
make  four  average-sized  cake  pans  and  cook  in  moderate  oven.  Any  filling  may 
be  used. — Mrs.  Alvis  K.  Umstead. 

MOLASSES  CAKE.  Two  eggs,  one  cup  sugar,  one  cup  molasses,  one  cup 
sour  milk,  two-thirds  cup  lard,  two  teaspoonfuls  soda,  one-half  teaspoonful  cin- 
namon, one -half  teaspoonful  ginger,  four  cups  flour,  bake  in  layers.  L"se  any  kind 
of  filling  desired. — Mrs.  T.  J.  Finch,  Thomasville,  N.  C. 

WAE  CAKE.  Two  cups  chopped  raisins,  one  cup  cold  water,  one  cup  brown 
sugar,  one  teaspoonful  cinnamon,  one-half  teaspoon  spice,  one-fourth  tea- 
spoon grated  nutmeg,  one -half  cup  of  lard  or  butter.  Boil  three  min- 
utes, then  cool,  adding  one  teaspoonful  soda*  dissolved  in  two  tablespoonfuls 
warm  water  and  pinch  of  salt.  One  teaspoonful  Eoyal  Baking  Powder,  two  cups, 
flour.  Beat  well  and  bake  in  a  moderate  oven  for  one  hour. — Mrs.  T.  J,  Finch, 
Thomasville,  N.  C. 

CUP  CAKE.  Three  eggs,  two  cups  sugar,  one  cup  milk,  one-fourth  pound 
butter,  two  teaspoonfuls  Eoyal  Baking  Powder,  three  and  one  half  cups  flour, 
flavor  with  vanilla.  — Mrs.  T.  J.  Finch,  Thomasville,  N.  C. 

POUND  CAKE.  One-half  pound  butter,  one  pound  flour,  six  eggs,  one  cup 
milk,  one  pound  pulverized  sugar,  one  teaspoonful  Eoyal  Baking  Powder.  Cream 
the  butter  and  the  sugar  until  light ;  beat  the  yolks  of  eggs  very  light  and  add 
to  butter  and  sugar,  add  the -milk  a  little  at  the  time.  Add  baking  powder  to 
flour  and  sift  five  times.  Add  whites  of  eggs  (beaten  stiff)  and  a  teaspoonful 
of  vanilla  last,  baking  in  a  moderate  oven  for  one  hour. — Mrs.  T.  J.  Finch, 
Thomasville,  N.  C. 

ANGEL  FOOD  CAKE.  Beat  the  whites  of  ten  eggs  in  a  large  flat  dish. 
Add  one  and  one-half  cups  granulated  sugar  which  has  l)eeu  sifted  twice.  Then 
one  cup  of  flour  which  has  been  sifted  three  times  and  to  Avhich  has  been  added 
two  level  teaspoonfuls  cream  of  tartar.  Add  a  delicate  flavor,  almond  preferred. 
Bake  in  three  layers  or  one  loaf.  Do  not  grease  the  tins.  Be  very  careful 
not  to  shake  cake  while  baking. — Mrs.  N.  D.  Bitting. 

FILLING  FOE  ANGEL  CAKE.  Two  cups  sugar,  one -half  cup  water,  whites 
of  two  eggs ;  cook  till  sugar  syrup  spins  a  thread  and  pour  over  Avhites,  beating 
constantly.  Add  one-half  pound  marshmallows  Avhile  filling  is  still  hot.  Cool 
and  spread. — Mrs.  N.  D.  Bitting. 

FEUIT  CAKE.  One  pound  citron,  one  pound  raisins,  one  pound  dates,  one 
pound  figs^  one  pound  currants,  one  pound  English  walnuts,  one  pound  almonds, 
one  grated  cocoanut,  one  teaspoonful  each  of  cinnamon,  cloves,  spices,  lemon 
extract,  vanilla,  Eoyal  Baking  Powder,  one-half  cup  cream,  pinch  salt.  Bake 
five  hours  in  a  slow  oven. — IVIrs.  Arthur  Cole. 


25 

USE  DAN  VALLEY  SUPERLATIVE  FLOUR 


Try  the  KNOX  GELATINE  recipes  found  in  this  book 


UNCOOKED  FRUIT  CAKE.  One  and  one-half  pounds  seeded  raisins^  one- 
half  pound  currants,  three-fourths  pound  dates,  one-half  pound  figs,  one-half 
pound  candied  cherries,  one-half  pound  crystallized  pineapple,  one-fourth  pound 
citron,  three-fourths  pound  shelled  pecans,  two  cups  oatmeal,  one  and  one-half 
cups  shredded  Avheat  biscuit,  one  cup  grape  juice,  one  cup  blackberry  juice,  three- 
fourths  cup  strained  honey,  four  teaspoonfuls  olive  oil,  spices  to  llavor  Avell. 
Combine  the  fruit  juices  and  drop  into  them  a  few  pieces  of  cinnanioii  bark, 
a  few  whole  cloves,  allspice  and  about  one-eighth  teasj^oonful  nutmeg.  Place  the 
mixture  over  a  slow  fire  and  allow  it  to  simmer  until  it  is  well  flavored  with  the 
spices.  Do  not  let  it  boil  rajDidly  at  all,  and  when  well  flavored,  remove  it  from 
the  fire  and  strain  through  cheesecloth.  Run  the  oatmeal  and  the  wheat  biscuit 
through  a  meat  chopper  before  measuring.  Re-heat  the  fruit  juice  to  the  boiling 
point  and  pour  it  over  the  cereals ;  then  cover  it  closely  and  set  away  overnight. 
Prepare  nuts  and  fruits  as  for  usual  fruit  cake.  Currants  must  be  washed  thor- 
oughly and  dry  overnight.  The  nuts  are  best  broken  in  small  pieces,  the  raisins, 
dates,  figs,  pineapple  and  citron  cut  into  bits  and  the  cherries  left  whole.  When 
ready  to  mix,  measure  the  honey  and  olive  oil  and  stir  them  into  the  cereals  and 
fruit  juice.  Combine  the  nuts  and  fruits  and  work  them  into  this,  using  the 
hands.  The  mixing  must  be  done  in  a  large  pan  so  as  to  blend  everything  thor- 
oughly. Line  a  pan  with  white  paper  brushed  over  with  olive  oil.  Pack  the 
mixture  in  this,  a  little  at  the  time,  pressing  it  doAvn  until  it  is  perfectly  solid. 
Decorate  the  top  with  nuts  and  cherries  and  cover  it  with  a  paper  brushed  with 
oil.  Put  the  cake  in  a  covered  bread  tin  and  set  it  in  a  cool  place  for  at  least 
six  weeks.  Several  days  before  cutting  it,  wrap  it  in  a  cloth  wet  with  grape 
juice.  If  the  recipe  is  carefully  followed  and  the  measuring  and  the  mixing  are 
exact,  the  housoAvife  need  never  fear  a  failure  in  making  this  cake,  and  it  Avill 
prove  a  delightful  surprise  to  both  family  and  guests. — Mrs.  Arthur  Cole. 

KENTUCKY  BLUE-GRASS  QAKE.  Cream  Avell  two  cups  butter  with  three 
cups  sugar,  add  one  cup  milk  mixed  smooth  AA'ith  tAvo  cups  corn  starch.  Sift 
one  teaspoonful  Royal  Baking  Powder  and  two  teaspoonfuls  cream  of  tartar 
with  six  cups  flour  and  add  alternately  Avith  the  beaten  Avhites  of  fourteen  eggs. 
Turn  into  a  buttered  and  papered  oval  cake  tin  and  bake.  When  done  cool 
thoroughly,  then  split  througli  the  middle  lengthAvise  Avith  a  sharp  knife  and 
spread  like  layer  cake  Avith  boiled  icing  betAveen  and  on  top  and  sides.  Decorate 
Avith  raisins,  nuts  and  figs. — Mrs.  Arthur  Cole. 

BOILED  ICING.  Make  a  syrup  of  one  and  one-half  cups  sugar  and  one- 
half  cup  Avater.  Beat  the  Avhites  of  tAvo  small  eggs  until  frothy,  add  one-fourth 
teaspoonful  cream  of  tartar  and  beat  until  stiff.  When  syrup  has  reached  the 
honey  stage,  dropping  thick  from  the  spoon,  add  five  teaspoonfuls  to  the  egg, 
beating  it  in  Avell;  then  boil  the  rest  of  the  syrup  until  it  threads  AAdien  dropped 
from  the  spoon.  Pour  sloAvly  onto  the  egg,  beating  AA^ell.  Beat  until  cool  enough 
to  spread  on  cake.  This  process  prevents  the  frosting  hardening  too  rapidly. 
— Mrs.  Arthur  Cole. 

VANITY  CAKE.  One  and  one-half  cups  sugar,  one-half  cup  butter,  one- 
half  cup  SAA'eet  milk,  one  and  one-half  cups  flour,  one-half  cup  corn  starch,  one 
teaspoonful  Royal  Baking  PoAvder,  Avhites  of  six  eggs;  bake  in  tAvo  layers,  put- 
ting frosting  betAveen  and  on  top. 

SOFT  GINGER  CAKE.  One  cup  molasses,  one-half  pound  sugar,  one  half 
pound  butler,  tAvo  teaspoonfuls  ginger,  tAvo  teaspoonfuls  soda  in  cup  of  boiling 
Avater,  tAvo  and  one-half  cups  flour,  tAvo  AA-ell-beaten  eggs  added  last  thing.  Bake 
in  a  sloAV  oven  three-fourths  to  one  hour. — Mrs.  M.  S.  Whitted. 

CAKE,  WITH  SEAFOAM  FILLING.  Three-fourths  cup  butter,  or  Snow- 
drift, tAvo  cups  sugar,  cream  together,  five  eggs  beaten  in  separately,  one  cnp 
sv^et  milk,  three  cups  flour,  one  rounded  teaspoonful  Royal  Baking  PoAvder. 
Flavor  AA'ith  vanilla. 

FILLING.    Four  cups  broAvn  sugar,  cup  Avater;  cook  un'il  the  mixture  AAill 

form  ball  in  cold  Avater,  mix'Avith  AA'hites  of  two  eggs,  flavor  with  black  or 
English  Avalnuts. — Mrs.  J.  W.  Bright. 

25 


USE  DAN  RIVER  SELF-RISING  FLOUj 


DESSERTS  can  be  made  in  a  short  time  with  KNOX  GELATINE 


CREAM  SPONGE  CAKE.  Tavo  eggs  broken  in  a  cup,  fill  the  cup  with  sweet 
cream,  beat  until  light.  One  cup  sugar,  one  and  one-half  cups  flour,  two  tea- 
spoonfuls  of  Royal  Baking  Powder,  a  pinch  of  salt.  Flavor  to  taste. — Mks.  J. 
S.  Carr,  Jr. 

CHOCOLATE  CAKE.  Two  cups  brown  sugar,  one-half  cup  butter,  four 
eggs,  one-half  cup  milk,  one  small  teaspoonful  soda,  two  cups  flour,  enough 
cocoa  to  make  black. 

PILLING  FOR  CHOCOLATE  CAKE.  One-half  cup  brown  sugar,  five  table- 
spoonfuls  butter,  three  tablespoonfuls  cocoa,  three  tablespoonfuls  vanilla.  Cream 
with  the  hands. — Mrs.  Frank  Stone. 

CHOCOLATE  CAKE.  Cream  one-half  cup  butter,  tAvo  cups  brown  sugar. 
Add  four  eggs,  two  cups  flour  and  one  teaspoonful  soda,  one -half  cup  sweet 
milk,  one-fourth  large  cake  Baker's  Chocolate. 

FILLING.  Cream  three  tablespoonfuls  butter,  one  pound  confectioner's 
sugar,  three  teaspoonfuls  coffee  (liquid).  sLx  teaspoonfuls  vanilla,  six  teaspoon- 
fuls  cocoa.    Do  not  cook  this. — Mrs.  J.  D.  Hamlin. 

LEMON  CAKE.  Two  cups  flour,  two  cwps  sugar,  six  eggs,  six  tablespoon- 
fuls butter,  four  tablespoonfuls  milk,  two  teaspoonfuls  cream  of  tartar,  one 
teaspoonful  soda  (or  two  of  baking  powder),  two-thirds  teaspoonful  salt. 

FILLING.  One  and  one-half  cups  sugar,  one-half  cup  butter,  four  eggs, 
rind  of  three  lemons  grated,  and  juice.  Beat  the  butter,  sugar  and  eggs  together. 
Set  into  a  dish  of  boiling  water;  then  add  the  lemon  and  stir  until  thick.  Spread 
betAveen  layers  of  cake. — Mrs.  Lonnie  Hamlin. 

,  PINEAPPLE  CAKE.  One  cup  sugar,  one  cup  butter,  yolks  of  three  eggs, 
tAvo  cups  flour,  tAvo  teaspoonfuls  Royal  Baking  PoAvder,  tAVO  tablespoonfuls  pine- 
apple juice.  Cream  the  butter  and  sugar,  add  the  well-beaten  yolks  and  the 
sifted  flour  Avith  baking  poAvder.    Add  flavoring  and  bake  in  three  layers. 

FILLING.  Boil  two  cups  sugar  Avith  tAVO-thirds  cup  cream  for  ten  minutes. 
Take  from  the  fire  and  beat  until  thick  and  smooth.  To  one-third  of  this  add 
one  cup  grated  pineapple  to  spread  betAveen  the  layers.  To  the  remaining  tAvo- 
thirds,  add  enough  pineapple  juice  to  make  it  spread  smoothly  for  icing. — Mrs. 
Lonnie  Hamlin. 

POUND  CAKE.  One  pound  flour,  one  pound  sugar,  one  pound  butter,  one 
pound  eggs,  one  cup  SAveet  milk,  one  tablespoonful  cream  of  tartar,  one  teaspoon- 
ful soda.  Cream  sugar  and  butter,  beat  AA'hites  and  yelloAvs  of  eggs  separately, 
add  eggs  and  flour  alternately.  Dissolve  cream  of  tartar  and  soda  in  milk  and 
stir  until  it  foams.  When  all  is  mixed  thoroughly,  beat  hard  for  fifteen  minutes. 
Bake  in  a  moderate  oven  tAVo  and  one-half  hours. — Mrs.  Ben  Perry. 

SPICE  LAYER  CAKE.  Tavo  cups  broAvn  sugar,  tAvo  thirds  cup  of  butter, 
one  cup  buttermilk,  four  eggs,  one  teaspoonful  soda,  three  cups  flour,  one  table- 
spoonful  cinnamon,  one  teaspoonful  ground  cloves,  one  teaspoonful  ground  nut- 
meg. Cream  the  butter  and  sugar.  Beat  Avhites  and  yelloAvs  of  eggs  separately. 
Add  yelloAVs  (use  Avhites  for  filling.)  Mix  other  ingredients.  Dissolve  soda  in 
milk.    Mix  all  thoroughly.    Bake  in  cake  tins. — Mrs.  Ben  Perry. 

GOLD  AND  WHITE  COCOANUT  CAKE.  Tavo  cups  sugar,  one-half  cup 
butter,  one  cup  milk,  three  cups  flour,  tAvo  teaspoonfuls  Royal  Baking  Powder, 
the  AAhites  of  five  egg».  Cream  butter,  add  sugar  gradually,  cream  Avell,  alter- 
nate milk  and  flour  then  the  AA^ell-beaten  Avhites  of  eggs.    Flavor  Avith  vanilla. 

GOLD  LAYERS.  One-half  cup  butter,  one  cup  sugar,  one  and  one-half 
cups  flour,  one-half  cup  milk,  one  and  one-half  teaspoonfuls  Royal  Baking 
PoAvder,  yolks  of  five  eggs.  Mix  the  same  Avay  as  the  Avhite  layers,  adding  well- 
beaten  eggs  last,  and  one-half  teasiDoonful  A'anilla. 

27 


USE  DAN  VALLEY  SUPERLATIVE  FLOUR 


Use  KNOX  GELATINE— the  two-quart  package 


FILLING.  Cook  two  and  one  half  cups  sugar  in  three-fourths  cup  of  boiling 
water  until  it  spins  a  thread,  pour  over  the  stiffly  beaten  whites  of  three  eggs, 
beat,  use  one  cocoanut  grated. — Miss  Stella  E.  Pritchard. 

DEVIL'S  CAKE.  Two  and  one  half  cups  brown  sugar,  one  cup  butter  and 
lard  mixed,  two  eggs,  one-half  cup  chocolate  dissolved  in  hot  water,  one  teaspoon 
nutmeg,  one  teaspoon  soda  dissolved  in  one  cup  butter-milk,  three  cups  flour, 
one  teaspoon  cinnamon,  one  tablespoon  vanilla.  Cream  butter  and  sugar.  Add 
eggs,  beat  well,  add  flour,  chocolate  and  flavoring,  then  soda  dissolved  in  milk. 

FILLING.  Three  cups  brown  sugar,  dissolved  in  one-half  cup  water  and  one- 
half  cup  cream.  Add  one-fourth  cake  chocolate,  boil  until  forms  a  soft  ball 
when  dropped  in  cold  water,  take  from  fire  and  beat  until  cold,  then  spread 
between  layers. — Mrs.  A.  J.  Bullington. 

SPICE  CAKE.  Two  cups  brown  sugar,  one  cup  sour  cream,  one  cup  butter, 
two  cups  flour,  four  eggs,  two  tablespoons  of  cinnamon,  two  tablespoons  cloves, 
two  tablespoons  nutmeg,  one  teaspoon  soda. — Mrs.  E.  G.  Eagcland. 

SPANISH  CHOCOLATE  CAKE.  Two  cups  dark  brown  sugar,  one  cup  but- 
ter, three-fourths  cake  Baker's  Chocolate,  four  eggs,  one-half  cup  sweet  milk, 
two  cups  flour,  one  teaspoon  level  full  soda.  Dissolve  soda  in  tiny  drops  of 
hot  water.  Add  vanilla  to  taste.  Icing:  Whites  of  five  eggs,  five  cups  of 
sugar,  one  and  tAvo-thirds  cups  of  Avater. — Mrs.  E.  G.  Ragland. 


Small  Cakes 


''Sweet  cakes  and  short  cakes, 
Ginger  cakes  and.  honey  cakes, 
And  the  whole  family  of  cakes." 

TEA  CAKES.  Two  cups  sugar,  flour  to  make  dough  stiff  enough  to  roll, 
two  eggs  or  yolks  of  four  eggs,  one  cup  lard,  one  cup  sour  milk,  one  teaspoon- 
ful  soda,  one  pinch  salt. — Mrs.  M.  F.  Makkham. 

MOTHER'S  TEA  CAKES.  One  egg,  one  cup  sugar,  one-half  cup  butter, 
one-fourth  cup  buttermilk,  one  teaspoonful  soda,  flavor  wath  a  little  cinnamon. 
Flour  enough  to  roll.  Take  butter  and  a  portion  of  the  flour  and  work  together 
as  for  biscuits.  Beat  eggs  and  sugar  and  buttermilk,  into  which  the  soda  has 
been  dissolved,  together  ;  add  to  the  dough  and  add  enough  flour  to  make  it 
stiff.  Roll  out  very  thin.    Cut  and  bake  in  a  moderate  oven. — Mrs.  A.  G.  Elliott. 

MOTHER'S  TEA  CAKES.  Two  quarts  flour,  one  cup  lard,  one  cup  butter, 
three  eggs,  one  cup  buttermilk,  two  even  teaspoonfuls  soda,  one  grated  nutmeg. 
Cream  butter,  lard  and  sugar.  Break  in  eggs,  one  at  a  time,  add  milk  and 
nutmeg;  put  soda  into  the  flour,  add  to  the  batter.  Mix  into  dough  stiff  enough 
to  roll  out  thin  and  bake  in  a  moderate  oven.  This  recipe  always  proves  success- 
ful with  anyone. — Mrs.  Aubyn  Lyon. 

TEA  CAKES.  Three  eggs,  three  cups  sugar,  two  quarts  flour,  two  cups  lard, 
about  a  half  cup  of  sw^eet  milk  (as  much  as  needed  to  make  mixture  the  proper 
consistency  to  roll),  four  tablespoonf*ils  baking  powder,  one  grated  nutmeg, 
cream,  lard  and  sugar;  add  flour  sifted  with  powder  and  nutmeg. 

JELLY  ROLL.  Five  eggs,  one-fourth  teaspoonful  salt,  one  cupful  sugar,  one 
cupful  flour,  one  teaspoonful  vanilla,  one  teaspoonful  Royal  Baking  PoAvder. 
Bake  in  a  moderate  oven,  spread  with  jelly  and  roll  quickly. — Mrs.  G.  F.  Warner. 


28 

USE  DAN  RIVER  SELF-RISING  FLOUR 


KNOX  GELATINE  makes  a  transparent,  tender,  quivering  jelly 


^  OATMEAL  COCOANUT  COOKIES.  One  cupful  brown  su^ar,  one-half  cup- 
ful CriscG^  two  whole  eggs,  one  tablespoonful  vanilla,  two  cupfuls  rolled  oats, 
one  cupful  cocoanut,  two  cupfuls  flour,  one  teaspoonful  Eoyal  Baking  Powder, 
one-fourth  teaspoonful  ginger,  one-half  teaspoonful  nutmeg,  one  teaspoonful 
cinnamon,  one  teaspoonful  salt,  one-half  cup  nuts,  one  cup  raisins,  sift  sugar  to 
break  lumps.  Add  crisc(5,  then  cream.  Add  eggs  and  extract,  then  rolled  oats 
and  cocoanut.  Mix  well  and  let  stand  from  10  to  20  minutes.  Sift  together 
all  dry  ingredients  and  knead  into  first  mixture.  Mixture  will  be  very  stiff. 
If  nuts  and  raisins  are  used,  they  should  be  added  to  first  mixture.  Drop  on 
baking  sheet  and  bake  in  moderate  oven  40  minutes.  Allow  cakes  to  cool  before 
removing  from  pan.    Sufl^cient  for  45  cookies. — Mrs.  Joe  Albright. 

CREAM  PUFFS.  One  cup  hot  water,  one-half  cup  butter,  one  and  one-half 
cup  pastry  flour,  five  eggs.  Heat  the  butter  and  water  until  the  mixture  boils. 
Add  the  flour  all  at  once  and  mix  thoroughly.  Cook  3  to  5  minutes,  and  when 
cool  add  the  eggs,  unbeaten,  and  one  at  a  time.  Beat  until  thoroughly  mixed. 
Drop  by  tablespoonful  on  buttered  baking  sheets  and  bake  in  a  moderate  oven 
25  or  30  minutes.    When  cold  open  at  the  end,  fill  with  cream  filling. 

GINGER  SNAPS.  One  cup  molasses,  one  cup  brown  sugar,  one  cup  butter 
and  lard  mixed,  one  teaspoonful  ginger,  one  teaspoonful  cinnamon,  one  table- 
spoonful soda,  one  tal^lespoonful  vinegar,  five  tablespoonfuis  water.  Mix  all 
together  and  boil  five  minutes.  Remove  from  fire  and  when  cold  as  new  milk, 
mix  stiff  with  flour.  Let  stand  until  quite  cold.  Roll  thin  and  bake  in  a  quick 
oven. — Mrs.  Van  Patterson- 

POP-OVERS.  Two  cups  flour,  three  eggs  well-beaten,  two  cups  milk,  one  and 
one-half  teaspoonfuls  salt.  Have  the  pans  well  greased  and  hot.  Put  in  quick 
oven  and  bake  twenty-five  minutes.  (Use  muffin  pans.) — 'Mrs.  H.  E.  Seeman. 

' '  HINTS. ' '  If  you  will  once  use  in  your  cake  baking  the  paper  which 
comes  in  the  package  of  commercial  cakes  and  crackers,  instead  of  the  usual 
* '  greased  paper ' '  you  will  never  go  back  to  the  ' '  old  way. ' ' — Mrs.  Thos.  H. 
Leary. 

CREAM  FILLING.  One-third  cup  flour,  two  cups  scalded  milk,  two  eggs, 
seven-eighths  cup  sugar,  one-eighth  teaspoonful  salt,  one  teaspoonful  vanilla,  one 
and  one-half  teaspoonfuls  butter.  Moisten  the  flour  with  some  of  the  cold  milk, 
add  one-half  of  it  to  the  hot  milk.  Cook  fifteen  minutes  in  a  double  boiler. 
Cook  until  thick.  Beat  the  eggs,  sugar  and  salt  together.^  Add  to  them  the 
hot  liquid  and  butter,  return  to  a  double  boiler  and  cook  until  the  egg  thickens, 
(about  3  minutes).    Remove  from  the  fire.    When  cool  add  flavoring. 

OATMEAL  COOKIES.  One  cup  sugar,  one  half  cup  butter,  tw^o  cups  flour, 
two  cups  oatmeal,  two  eggs,  one-half  teaspoonful  salt,  one  cup  raisins  chopped, 
one  cup  nuts,  one-half  cup  sour  milk,  one  teaspoonful  soda  in  milk,  one-half 
teaspoonful  allspice,  one-half  teaspoonful  cinnamon,  one-half  teaspoonful  cloves, 
one-half  teaspoonful  nutmeg.  Mix  the  butter  and  sugar^  add  eggs,  nuts,  raisins. 
Add  milk  and  soda  last  thing  before  pouring  in.  Batter  dropped  in  by  the 
teaspoonful. — Mrs.  P.  A.  Noell. 

BROWNIES.  Two  squares  chocolate  (1-4  cake)  melted,  one  cup  nut  meats 
(broken  up)  three  eggs,  one  cup  sugar,  one  teaspoonful  vanilla,  one-half  cup 
melted  butter,  seven-eighths  cup  flour  (scant)  one-half  teaspoonful  Royal  Bak- 
ing Powder,  one-half  teaspoonful  salt.  Beat  the  eggs  and  sugar  together,  add 
melted  chocolate  and  butter,  then  add  rest  of  the  ingredients  at  once  and  stir 
enough  to  mix.  Bake  in  shallow  pans  about  one-lialf  inch  thick  and  do  not 
let  stand  in  oven  after  it  is  baked  enough  not  to  stick  to  a  straw. — Mrs.  E.  G. 
Belvin. 

CREAM  PUFFS.  One  cup  hot  water,  one-half  cup  butter.  Boil  together, 
stir  in  a  cup  of  dry  flour  while  boiling.  When  cool  add  three  eggs,  not  beaten. 
Mix  well  and  drop  b^  the  spoonful  on  buttered  tins.    Bake  25  minutes. 

29 

USE  DAN  VALLEY  SUPERLATIVE  FLOUR 


KNOX  GELATINE  is  the  one  dessert  for  all  appetites 


CEEAM  FILLING.  One  cup  milk^  one  cup  sugar,  one  egg,  one  teaspoonful 
vanilla,  four  level  tablespoonfuls  four.  Beat  eggs  and  sugar  and  flour  together, 
and  stir  into  milk  while  boiling.  Flavor  with  vanilla.  Lift  off  top  or  slit  top 
in  the  filling.    (This  makes  12  to  14  puffs.) — Miss  Myrtle  Albright. 

FRUIT  COOKIES.  Two  and  one-half  cups  sugar,  three  eggs,  one  cup  but- 
ter, one  pound  seeded  raisins,  or  more,  one-fourth  walnuts,  or  more,  one  tea- 
spoonful  soda  in  a  little  water,  flour  to  make  very  stiff,  one  tablespoon  vanilla, 
one  teaspoonful  each,  cinnamon,  nutmeg,  allspice  and  cloves.  Bake  in  a  fairly 
hot  oven  until  done.  Remove  from  the  oven  and  cut  in  squares  while  hot  and 
remove  from  pan.  The  most  satisfactory  way  to  mix  is  with  the  hands,  as  it 
is  so  stiff  that  it  is  hard  to  mix  or  spread  in  pan  with  spoon. — Mrs.  M.  F. 
Markham. 

PEANUT  WAFERS.  Chop  fine  one  pint  of  shelled  and  skinned  peanuts, 
add  three  eggs,  two  tablespoonfuls  of  milk,  some  salt,  and  one  cup  of  sugar, 
creamed  with  two  tablespoonfuls  of  butter.  Then  add  flour  to  make  a  soft 
dough,  roll  thin,  cut  into  strips.    Bake  in  moderate  oven. — Mrs.  E.  G.  Ragland. 

TEA  CAKES.  Three  eggs,  one  cup  butter,  tAVO  teaspoonfuls  Royal  Bak- 
ing Powder.  Beat  the  eggs,  add  sugar  and  butter.  Then  add  the  flavoring  and 
baking  powd.er,  and  enough  flour  to  make  stiff  enough-  to  roll  out  and  cut. 
Sprinkle  with  sugar  and  shredded  cocoanut  before  baking. — Mrs.  D.  D.  Belvin. 

LIGHTNING  TEA  CAKES.  Sift  one  and  one-half  cups  flour,  three-fourths 
cup  sugar,  tAvo  teaspoonfuls  Royal  Baking  PoAvder,  one-half  teaspoonful  salt, 
melt  one-half  cup  butter,  into  this  cup  break  two  eggs,  then  fill  cup  with  sweet 
milk.  Pour  this  into  the  flour  and  sugar  and  stir  until  smooth.  Flavor  to  taste. 
Bake  in  muffin  rings. — Mrs.  F.  J.  Finch,  Thomasville,  N.  C. 

COOKIES.  Two  eggs,  one-half  cup  lard,  one-half  cup  butter,  one-half  cup 
sour  cream,  two  cups  sugar,  one  teaspoonful  soda,  a  little  salt,  flour  enough  to 
roll  well.   Bake  in  hot  oven. — Mrs.  F.  J.  Finch,  Thomasville,  N.  C. 

TEA  CAKES.  One-half  cup  butter,  one  cup  sugar,  one  fourth  cup  milk,  one 
egg,  tAvo  teaspoonfuls  Royal  Baking  PoAvder,  flavor  Avith  lemon.  Cream  butter 
Avell,  add  the  sugar ;  cream  together  and  add  the  egg,  then-  milk.  Put  baking 
poAvder  in  flour.  Put  in  flour  enough  to  make  a  stiff  dough  and  knead  Avell. 
Roll  thin,  sprinkle  sugar  on  the  dough,  run  rolling  pin  over  lightly,  cut  and 
bake  in  a  moderate  oven. — Mrs.  Gooch. 

CRISP  WAFFLES.  One  egg,  one  pint  SAveet  milk,  tAvo  tablespoonfuls  corn 
meal,  tAvo  tablespoonfuls  melted  butter,  one  teaspoonful  sugar,  tAvo  teaspoonfuls 
Royal  Baking  PoAvder,  one  teaspoonful  salt.  Flour  to  make  thin  batter.  Mix 
butter  and  sugar  Avell,  add  egg  and  beat  thoroughly.  Put  the  meal,  salt  and 
baking  powder  Avith  the  flour,  sift  into  the  butter  and  sugar,  adding  the  milk 
as  needed,  using  up  all  the  flour  before  the  milk.  Follow  the  directions  and 
delicious  AA-afiles  Avill  be  the  result. — Mrs.  M.  S.  Whitted. 

DAINTY  WAFERS.  Chop  one  pound  English  walnuts  and  one-half  pound  of 
seeded  raisins.  Mix  Avith  meringue  composed  of  three  egg  Avhites  and  four  table- 
spoonfuls sugar.  Spread  mixture  on  butter  thin  biscuits  and  place  in  oven 
until  light  broAvn. — Mrs.  M.  S.  Whitted. 

ROCKS.  Tavo  eggs,  four  cups  flour,  four  teaspoonfuls  Royal  Baking  PoAvder, 
one  and  one-half  cups  sugar,  one-half  cup  Crisco,  one  teaspoonful  salt,  one- 
half  teaspoonful  soda,  one-half  cup  buttermilk,  one  and  one-half  cups  raisins, 
two  teaspoonfuls  cinnamon,  three  fourths  cup  nuts.  Beat  eggs,  cream  Crisco  and 
sugar  together,  cut  raisins  and  flour,  beat  all  together  Avell,  then  drop  by  tea- 
spoonfuls in  biscuit  pan,  about  five  inches  apart  as  this  makes  a  nice  sized  cake 
and  must  have  room  to  spread  out.  The  cakes  Avhen  cooked  should  be  the  size 
of  a  tea  cake. — Mrs.  M.  L.  Yearby. 

30 


USE  DAN  RIVER  SELF-RISING  FLOUR 


Give  the  growing  children  KNOX  GELATINE 


TEA  CAKES.  Two  eggs,  one  cup  sugar,  one-half  cup  butter,  one-fourth  cup 
water,  one  teaspoonful  soda,  cinnamon  and  vanilla  to  flavor,  flour  to  make  dough 
stiff  enough  to  roll.    Eoll  very  thin  and  bake  quickly. — Mrs.  W.  A.  Bakbee. 

LADY  FINGERS.  Yolks  of  two  eggs,  whites  of  three  eggs,  one-third  cup 
powdered  sugar,  one-third  cup  pastry  flour,  one-third  teaspoonful  salt,  one  fourth 
teaspoonful  vanilla  extract.  Beat  the  whites  of  the  eggs  till  very  stiff,  adding 
the  sugar  gradually.  Then  add  the  well-beaten  yolks  and  vanilla;  fold  in  gently 
the  flour  sifted  with  the  salt.  Force  the  mixture  through  a  pastry  bag  onto 
a  greased,  flat  pan,  sprinkle  with  sifted  sugar,  and  bake  eight  minutes  in  a 
moderate  oven. — Mrs.  P.  T.  Elliott. 

TEA  BISCUIT.  One  cake  Fleischmann's  Yeast,  one-half  cup  scalded  milk, 
cooled,  one-half  cup  lukewarm  water,  one  tablespoonful  sugar,  three  and  one- 
half  cups  sifted  flour,  one  scant  teaspoonful  salt,  two  tablespoonfuls  lard  or 
butter,  melted.  Dissolve  the  yeast  and  sugar  in  lukewarm  liquid.  Add  lard  or 
butter  and  half  the  flour.  Beat  until  smooth.  Add  salt  and  then  the  rest  of 
flour,  or  enough  to  make  a  moderately  firm  dough.  Knead  thoroughly.  Eoll 
out  and  cut  with  biscuit  cutter.  Place  in  well-greased,  shallow  pans,  slight  dis- 
tance apart.  Cover  and  set  to  rise  about  two  hours  or  until  double  in  bulk. 
When  light,  bake  in  a  hot  oven  ten  minutes.  These  biscuits  are  delicious  and 
wholesome  hot,  and  very  palatable  cold. — The  Fleischmann  Co. 


Candies 


little  taffy  now  and  then 
Is  relished  hy  the  best  of  men." 

DIVINITY.  Two  cups  sugar,  one  half  cup  crystal  Karo,  one-half  cup 
cold  water.  Let  boil  until  brittle  when  tried  in  cold  water.  Add  this  to  beaten 
whites  of  tAvo  eggs  and  beat  until  stiff.  Nuts  or  fruits  can  be  added. — ^Irs.  D.  F. 
Parker. 

ICE  CREAM  CANDY.  One  cupful  sugar,  one-third  cupful  water,  one-fourth 
teaspoonful  cream  of  tartar,  butter  size  of  an  egg.  Boil  all  together  about  fifteen 
minutes,  not  stirring  until  taken  from  the  fire,  then  add  flavoring. — Mrs.  F.  M. 
Carlton. 

COCOANUT  CANDY.  Two  teacupfuls  white  sugar,  one-half  cupful  sweet 
cream,  butter  size  of  a  walnut.  Let  it  boil  fifteen  minutes,  then  stir  in  amount 
of  cocoanut  you  think  best.  Whip  good  and  pour  into  buttered  pan. — Mrs.  M.  F. 
Carlton. 

MINTS.  Three  cups  granulated  sugar,  three-fourths  cup  cold  water,  one 
teaspoonful-  butter.  Cook  altogether  until  crisp  in  cold  water.  Pour  on  buttered 
marble  to  cool  quickly.  Color  and  flavor  Avith  peppermint  while  pulling. — Miss 
M,ART  Walker  Lougee. 

NEW  NUT  CANDY.  Three  cups  granulated  sugar,  three  fourths  cup  white 
Karo  syrup,  one  large  cup  cold  water,  whites  of  tAVo  eggs,  beaten  stiff,  one  cup 
English  or  black  Avalnuts.  Cook  sugar,  syrup  and  Avater  until  it  forms  a  soft 
ball  in  cold  Avater;  noAv  pour  half  of  this  on  the  AA'ell-beaten  whites  of  eggs. 
Put  the  other  half  of  syrup  back  on  the  stoA'e  and  cook  until  crisp  in  cold  AA'ater 
or  cracks  off  end  of  knife.  Then  pour  it  into  beaten  egg  mixture,  beat  until 
nearly  stiff,  add  cup  of  nuts  and  flavor  Avith  vanilla.  Pour  into  buttered  dish 
and  Avhen  cool  mark  into  squares. — Miss  Elizabeth  Lumpki^c. 

31 


USE  DAN  VALLEY  SUPERLATIVE  FLOUR 


KNOX  GELATINE  is  clear  and  sparkling 


DIVINITY  PUDGE.  Two  cups  sugar^  one  cup  Karo  syrup,  one  tablespoon- 
ful  vinegar.  Boiling  till  it  balls.  One-half  cup  water,  one  cup  sugar,  one  pinch 
cream  of  tartar.  Pour  the  second  mixture  over  whites  of  two  eggs  and  beat 
awhile.  Then  pour  the  first  mixture  over  that  and  whip  twenty  minutes.  Then 
pour  in  one  cup  English  walnuts  and  pour  into  a  platter  to  cool.  Cut  in  squares 
and  wrap  in  oil  paper. — Mrs.  E.  W.  Morris. 

MAPLE  SUGAR  CAXDY.  One  cupful  maple  sugar,  small  bit  of  butter,  one- 
half  cup  water.  Boil  about  ten  minutes.  When  done  add  one  teaspoonful 
vanilla  and  pour  into  buttered  pans.    Do  not  stir. — Mrs.  M.  P.  Carlton. 

TAPPY  CANDY.  Pour  cups  granulated  sugar,  one  cup  molasses,  three- 
fourths  cup  vinegar,  a  good  pinch  of  salt,  a  good  pinch  of  soda.  Small  lump  of 
butter.  Cook  all  together  until  crisp  in  cold  Avater,  cool  on  piece  of  marble, 
pull  quickly.  Cut  into  small  strips.  A  tried  and  true  recipe. — Mrs.  J.  P. 
Harvey. 

BROWN  SUGAR  TAPPY.-  Two  pounds  or  four  large  cups  of  brown  sugar, 
two  large  tablespoonfuls  vinegar,  one  cup  cold  water,  one  heaping  teaspoonful 
butter.  Cook  until  dark  and  cracks  in  cold  water;  pull  and  cut  into  strips  or 
break  in  small  pieces. — Mrs.  Ben  Thomas. 

COCOANUT  CANDY.  Two  fresh  grated  cocoanuts,  tAvo  and  one-half  pounds 
granulated  sugar.  Take  the  milk  of  the  cocoanuts  and  the  sugar,  put  into 
aluminum  or  granite  saucepan,  cook  until  it  spins  a  thread ;  uoav  stir  into  this  the 
grated  cocoanut,  cook  fifteen  minutes  longer,  stirring  all  the  time  Avhile  cook- 
ing. Take  from  the  fire,  add  vanilla  to  flavor  and  beat  until  creamy.  Pour  into 
buttered  dish  and  when  cooled,  mark  into  sqaures.  This  recipe  Avas  originally 
used  and  given  by  a  professional  candy  maker  and  is  alAA'ays  a  success. — Miss 
Annie  Horton. 

SEA-POAM  CANDY.  One  pound  brown  sugar,  one-half  cup  AA^ater,  AA^hite  of 
one  egg,  dissolve  sugar  in  Avater,  put  on  fire  and  let  cook  until  it  forms  soft 
ball  by  testing  in  Avater,  beat  Avhite  of  fgg  until  stiff  and  Avhen  syrup  is  done 
pour  slowly  into  Avhite  of  egg,  beating  constantly.  After  beating  until  it  cooks 
and  stiffens  drop  in  balls  onto  greased  paper.— Miss  Thelma  Dav7SON. 

CRYSTALLIZED  PINEAPPLE.  Place  in  agate  or  earthen  saucepan  a  layer 
of  fruit  and  a  layer  of  sugar,  then  set  in  a  AA-arm  place  for  sugar  to  melt.  When 
a  syrup  is  formed  put  to  steAv  briskly  until  fruit  is  clear.  Dip  out  with  a  silver 
fork  and  drain  on  a  tipped  platter.  When  dry  roll  in  sugar  and  set  in  the  sun, 
or  AA'arming  OA'en  Avith  door  open.  If  still  Avet  after  a  feAV  hours  of  drying, 
dip  out  again  and  roll  in  fresh  sugar.  When  perfectly  dry  pack  in  boxes  AAdth 
dry  sugar  betAveen  the  layers. — ^Mrs.  C.  L.  Hornaday. 

MINTS.  Pour  cups  of  sugar,  one-fourth  pound  of  butter,  tAvo  cups  boil- 
ing Avater.  Into  the  boiling  Avater  stir  four  cups  sugar  and  one-foarth  pound 
butter.  Let  boil  until  it  hardens  Avhen  dropped  in  cold  Avater.  Pour  on  marble 
slab  that  has  been  buttered.  When  cold  enough  to  handle,  lift  from  slab  and 
pull  until  it  gets  cold.  Add  extract  of  peppermint  to  taste.  Pull  as  long  as 
necessary  and  cut  in  small  pieces  Avith  scissors.  When  thoroughly  chilled,  put 
in  air-tight  cans  and  leave  to  cream. — Mrs.  A.  J.  Bullington. 

PEANUT  BRITTLE.  Shell  and  chop  roasted  peanuts  to  measure  one  pint. 
Put  tAvo  pounds  granulated  sugar  in  clean  frying  pan.  Stir  over  sIoav  fire.  It 
Avill  lump  then  gradually  melt.  When  pale  coffee  color  and  clear,  add  nuts  and 
pour  quickly  on  buttered  tin  sheet.    Roll  thin  as  possible.    When  cold  break  up. 

VELVET  MOLASSES  CANDY.  Pour  one  and  one-half  pounds  granulated 
sugar,  one-half  pint  molasses^  one  half  pint  Avater,  one-quarter  cup  vinegar  in  an 
agate  kettle.  Heat;  Avhen  boiling  add  one-half  teaspoonful  cream  of  tartar,  boil 
until  it  crisps  in  cold  Avater.  Stir,  Avhen  almost  done,  add  one-quarter  pound 
butter,  one-quarter  teaspoonful  soda.    Cool  in  buttered  pan  and  pull. 

32 


USE  DAN  RIVER  SELF-RISING  FLOUR 


A  KI>{OX  GELATINE  Dessert  or  Salad  is  attractive  and  appetizing 


BUTTER  SCOTCH.  Three  cups  granulated  sugar,  one-half  cup  water,  one- 
half  cup  vinegar,  (or  one-half  teaspoonful  cream  of-  tartar)  one  tablespoonful 
butter,  eight  drops  extract  of  lemon.  Boil  without  stirring  till  it  will  snap  and 
break.  Just  before  taking  from  the  fire,  add  a  quarter  of  a  teaspoonful  of  soda; 
pourMnto  well-buttered  biscuit  tins,  a  quarter  of  an  inch  thick,  mark  off  into 
inch  <^quares  when  partly  cold. 

FONDANT  (COOKED.)  Two  cups  granulated  sugar,  two-thirds  cup  hot 
water,  a  pinch  of  cream  of  tartar,  stir  over  the  fire  until  sugar  is  dissolved,  but 
do  not  stir  while  boiling,  then  add  the  cream  of  tartar,  cook  till  it  just  begins 
to  form  a  soft  ball;  pour  out  in  dish,  set  in  pan  of  cold  Avater;  as  soon  as  you 
can  bear  to  hold  your  finger  in,  begin  to  stir  with  spoon  till  white,  then  knead 
for  a  few  minutes  with  the  hands.  This  is  the  foundation  for  all  bon  bons.  It 
can  be  made  into  many  different  kinds — Avalnut  creams,  chocolates  of  all  kinds, 
nut  squares,  peppermint  drops  and  for  coating.  Put  fondant  in  saucepan  and 
stir  continuously  until  it  is  re  melted;  if  not  stirred  it  will  go  back  to  sugar. 
For  nut  squares,  as  soon  as  fondant  begins  to  soften  stir  in  chopped  nuts. 

COCOANUT  CREAM  CANDY.  One  coeoanut,  one  and  one-half  pounds  gran- 
ulated sugar.  Put  sugar  and  milk  of  coeoanut  together,  heat  slowly  until  sugar 
is  melted;  then  boil  five  minutes;  add  coeoanut  (finely  grated),  boil  ten  minutes 
longer,  stir  constantly  to  keep  from  burning.  Pour  on  buttered  plates,  cut  in 
squares.  Will  take  about  two  days  to  harden.  Use  prepared  coeoanut  when  other 
cannot  be  had. 

FUDGE.  Two  cups  granulated  sugar,  one-half  cake  chocolate,  one-half  cup 
milk,  tw^o  large  tablespoonf uls  butter,  pinch  cream  of  tartar,  one  tablespoonful 
of  vanilla.  Cook  sugar  and  milk  until  it  comes  to  a  boiling  point,  add  cream  of 
tartar,  melted  chocolate,  butter  and  cook  until  it  forms  a  soft  ball  in  water,  let 
it  stand  in  cold  water  until  cool,  then^beat  until  creamy. — Mrs.  M.  F.  Markham. 

PEANUT  CANDY.  To  one  pound 'brown  sugar  add  one  cv^p  Karo  syrup  and 
one  cup  water.  Boil  until  it  hardehs  when  dropped  in  cold  water.  Just  before 
taking  from  fire,  add  two  ounces  buttgr  and  three-fourths  pound  shelled  peanuts. 
Pour  into  well-buttered  tin.  Be  careful  in  shelling  the  peanuts  that  none  of  the 
brown  skin  is  left  on.  Some  candy-makers  prefer  to  put  the  peanuts  in  a  w^ell- 
greased  pan  and  pour  the  syrup  mixture  over  them,  instead  of  stirring  them  in, 
as  it  makes  the  taify  mo^e  even  in  appearence. 

WALNUT  CARAMELS.  Turn  into  a  saucepan  two  pounds  brown  sugar,  one 
cup  Karo  syrup,  one  cup  milk,  two  ounces  butter  and  six  ounces  unsAveetened 
chocolate.  Bring  to  a  boil  slowly  and  continue  to  increase  the  heat  until  240^  F. 
has  been  reached  on  sugar  thermometer.  At  this  point  stir  in  the  one-half 
pound  walnut  meats  and  turn  out  into  buttered  tins.  When  cool  mark  into 
scjuares. — Mrs.  E.  G.  Belvin. 

KARO  SEAFOAM.  Boil  together  until  a  soft  ball  may  be  formed  when 
tested  in  cold  water,  three  cups  granulated  sugar,  one-half  cup  Karo  Syrup  and 
two-thirds  cup  water.  When  done  pour  the  mixture  gradually  over  the  whites 
of  two  eggs  which  have  been  beaten  to  a  stiff  froth  with  one  half  teaspoonful 
salt.  Do  not  relax  the  beating  a  moment  until  the  mixture  is  almost  stiff  enough 
to  keep  form,  when  one  cup  nut  meats  should  be  beaten  in.  Turn  the  mixture  at 
once  into  buttered  tins.  Two  brick-shaped  bread  tins  are  about  right  for  this 
quantity.  When  cold,  turn  out  on  to  waxed  paper  and  cut  in*o  squares. — Mrs. 
E.  G.  Belvin. 

DIVINITY  FUDGE.  Put  two  cups  granulated  sugar,  three  fourths  cup  Karo 
Syrup,  one-fourth  cup  water  in  granite  saucepan.  Boil  till  crisp  when  tried  in 
cold  water.  While  cooking,  whip  whites  of  two  eggs  in  large  bowl  till  stiff  and  dry. 
Pour  syrup  slowly  into  eggs,  beating  the  whole  till  it  begins  to  harden.  Add  one 
teaspoonful  vanilla,  one-half  cup  chopped  walnut  meats,  and  one-half  pound  dates 
stoned  and  cut  up  small.  Spread  quite  thick  on  shallow,  buttered  tin.  W^hen 
cool  cut  into  large  squares. — Mrs.  M.  F.  Markham. 

33 

USE  DAN  VALLEY  SUPERLATIVE  FLOUR 


Ask  your  grocer  for  KNOX  GELATINE— take  no  other 


KARO  BUTTEE  SCOTCH.  (Excellent.)  To  one  cup  granulated  sugar,  add 
one  cup  Karo  Syrup,  one  teaspoonful  vinegar  and  one-half  cup  butter.  BoiJ 
until  it  becomes  instantly  brittle  when  dropped  in  ice  Avater.  Pour  thinly  into 
buttered  pans.  If  desiring  to  make  in  squares,  it  should  be  done  at  once,  as  it 
cools  almost  at  once. — Mrs.  M.  F.  Markham. 

FONDANT.  One -half  cupful  Karo  Syrup,  one  and  one-half  cups  granulated 
sugar,  one-fourth  teaspoonful  cream  of  tartar  and  one-third  cup  hot  water.  Boil 
without  stirring  until  the  mixture  has  reached  the  threading  stage.  When  par- 
tially cool,  beat  until  creamy.    Keep  cool  and  dry  till  needed. 

CHOCOLATE  CARAMELS.  Scrape  fine  or  grate  four  squares  of  chocolate 
into  one  cup  of  milk.  Set  to  boil,  and  when  chocolate  is  entirely  melted,  add  one 
cup  Karo  Syrup,  one  cup  brown  sugar,  heaping  tablespoonful  butter  and  vanilla 
extract.  (If  desired  chopped  nuts  may  be  added.)  Pour  into  buttered  pan  to 
harden  and  mark  in  squares  Avhen  cool. — Mrs.  D.  F.  Parker. 

FRENCH  VANILLA  CREAM.  Break  into  a  bowl  the  whites  of  two  eggs, 
add  to  this  an  equal  quantity  of  ice  water  and  a  few  drops  of  vanilla,  then  stir 
in  confectioner 's  sugar  until  stitf  enough  to  mould  into  shape  with  the  fingers. 
Make  in  balls  and  lay  in  wax  paper.  This  is  the  foundation  for  all  candies  made 
on  French  cream. 

CHOCOLATE  FUDGE.  Three  cupfuls  white  sugar,  three-fourths  cup  water, 
six  tablespoonfuls  cocoa,  one-fourth  teaspoonful  cream  of  tartar,  one  tablespoon- 
ful butter,  one  teaspoonful  vanilla.  Put  sugar,  water,  cocoa  and  cream  of 
tartar  on  and  cook  until  a  soft  ball  may  be  formed  in  cold  water.  Take  from 
stove,  add  butter  and  flavoring.  Place  aside  until  cool  (about  fifteen  or  twenty 
minutes.)    Then  beat.    Never  beat  or  stir  until  cool. — Mrs.  M.  F.  Yearby. 

CHOCOLATE  FUDGE.  Two  and  one-half  cups  (one  and  one-fourth  pounds) 
sugar,  one  level  teaspoonful  Royal  Baking  PoAvder,  two  squares  (tAvo  ounces) 
chocolate  grated,  one  cupful  (one-half  pint)  milk,  one  tablespoonful  butter,  one 
teaspoonful  vanilla.  Put  sugar,  baking  poAvder,  milk  and  butter  into  a  saucepan 
and  bring  to  boiling  point,  then  boil  until  it  forms  a  soft  ball  Avhen  tested  in 
cold  water.  Remove  from  fire,  add  flavoring,  and  beat  until  creamy.  Put  into 
buttered  tins  and  mark  into  squares  when  half  cold. — Mrs.  M.  N.  Gaerard. 

HOME-MADE  COCOANUT  SWEETS.  A  neAv  recipe  for  candy  never  comes 
amiss;  here  is  an  ideal  sAA'eet  for  the  little  folks:  Put  into  a  porcelain-lined 
saucepan  tAA'o  cups  of  granulated  sugar  and  one  cup  of  milk,  stir  until  the  suaar 
is  dissolved,  add  tAA-o  tablespoonfuls  of  butter  and  cook  Avithout  stirring  fur  about 
fifteen  minutes,  until  it  forms  a  creamy  ball,  Avhen  it  is  dropped  into  cold 
Avater.  Take  off  from  the  fire,  add  one-half  cupful  of  shredded  cocoanut.  Beat 
until  the  mixture  is  creamy,  pour  into  a  buttered  pan,  cool,  cut  in  squares  and 
roll  in  shredded  cocoanut.  This  is  delicious,  either  fresh  or  AA'hen  several  days 
old. — Mrs.  E.  G.  Belvin. 

MINTS.  Tavo  cups  sugar,  three-fourths  cup  boiling  AA'ater,  small  piece  of 
butter,  about  tablespoonful.  Cook  Avithout  stirring,  till  it  forms  hard  ball  in  cold 
Avater,  pour  on  marble  slab,  and  as  soon  as  cool  enough  to  handle,  pull  till  it 
begins  to  stiffen,  then  cut  in  small  pieces  Avith  scissors.  Flavor  Avith  essence  of 
mint  soon  after  beginning  to  pull.  Put  in  coA'ered  glass  jar  to  cream. — Mrs. 
M.  F.  Markiiam. 

DIVINITY  FUDGE.  Tavo  and  one-half  cups  sugar,  one-half  cup  cold  Avater, 
one-half  cup  Karo  Syrup,  one  teaspoonful  A'anilla,  one  cup  nuts  chopped  fine. 
Boil  sryup,  sugar  and  Avater  together  until  it  reaches  the  soft  ball  state.  Pour 
half  of  this  on  beaten  AAdiites  of  tAvo  eggs,  beating  constantly.  Cook  remaining 
syrup  until  brittle.  Pour  this  into  the  first  mixture.  Add  A^anilla  and  nuts. 
Pour  into  a  platter  that  has  been  cooled  Avitli  cold  Avater. — Mrs.  Geneva  C. 
Appleavhite. 


34 

USE  DAN  RIVER  SELF-RISING  FLOUR 


Send  for  the  KNOX  GELATINE  Recipe  Book 


Bread 


''She  needeth  least,  v:ho  kneadeth  best, 

These  rules  which  we  shall  tell; 
Who  kneadeth  ill  shall  need  them  more 

Than  she  who  kneadeth  well." 

WHITE  BREAD.  (Two  risings.)  Two  cakes  Fleisehmann 's  Yeast,  one 
quart  lukewarm  water,  2  taljlospoonfuls  sugar,  two  tablespoonfuls  lard  or  Vmtter, 
three  quarts  sifted  ilour,  one  taldespoonful  salt.  Dissolve  yeast  and  sugar  in 
lukeAvarm  water,  add  l.-ird  or  l)uttor  and  half  the  flour.  Beat  until  smooth,  then 
add  salt  and  balance  of  the  flour,  or  enough  to  make  dough  that  can  be  handled. 
Knead  until  smooth  and  elastic.  Place  in  greased  bowl,  cover  and  set  aside  in  a 
moderately  warm  place,  free  from  draft,  until  light — about  one  and  one-half 
hours.  Mould  into  loaves.  Place  in  well-greased  bread  pans,  filling  them  half 
full.  Cover  and  let  rise  one  hour,  or  until  double  in  bulk.  Bake  forty-five 
to  sixty  minutes.  NOTE.  One  cake  of  yeast  may  be  used  with  good  results ; 
but  remember  the  quicker  and  stronger  the  fermentation,  the  better  the  bread. 
The  best  bread  bakers  have  adopted  quick  methods. — The  Fleischmaxn  Co. 

WHITE  BEEAD.  (One  rising.)  Two  cakes  Fleischmann 's  Yeast,  one  quart 
lukewarm  water,  one  tablespoon  salt,  two  tablespoonfuls  sugar,  three  and  one- 
half  Cjuarts  sifted  flour,  two  tablespoonfuls  lard  or  butter.  Dissolve  the  yeast 
and  sugar  in  lukewarm  water.  Add  lard  or  butter  and  half  the  flour.  Beat 
until  smooth.  Add  salt  and  then  the  rest  of  the  flour,  or  enough  to  make  a 
moderately  firm  dough.  Knead  thoroughly.  Mould  into  loaves.  Place  in  well- 
greased  pans,  filling  them  half  full.  Cover  and  let  rise  for  about  two  hours,  or 
until  double  in  bulk.    Bake  forty-five  to  sixty  minutes. — The  Fleischmann  Co. 

BEATEN  BISCUITS.  One  quart  flour,  one  teaspoon  salt,  one  tablespoon  lard, 
milk  to  make  a  stiff  dough,  one  teaspoon  Royal  Baking  Powder.  Sift  flour, 
put  in  salt  and  mix  the  lard  with  fingers.  Beat  until  it  blisters  and  breaks. 
Bake. — Mrs.  M.  F.  Markham. 

NORTH  CAROLINA  BISCUITS.  One  tablespoonful  lard  with  one  quart  of 
flour  into  which  has  been  sifted  one  level  teaspoonful  soda,  one  heaping  tea- 
spoonful  Royal  Baking  Powder,  one  level  teaspoonful  salt,  and  one  pint  rich  sour 
cream.  Knead  thoroughly  for  ten  minutes,  roll  out  and  cut  small,  and  bake 
in  a  quick  oven. — Miss  Bettie  Bernard. 

PARKER  HOUSE  CORN  ROLLS.  Sift  together,  one  and  one-fourth  cups 
flour,  three-fourths  cup  meal,  four  teaspoonfuls  Royal  Baking  Powder,  one 
tablespoon  sugar,  then  chop  in  two  tablespoonfuls  butter,  add  one  egg  (beaten) 
with  one-half  cup  sweet  milk.  This  makes  a  soft  dough  which  can  be  handled 
easily.  Turn  on  floured  board,  roll  out  to  thickness  of  about  one-half  inch ;  cut 
with  a  biscuit  cutter,  put  bit  of  butter  in  center  of  each  round  and  fold  as  for 
pockets.  Brush  top  with  milk  and  bake  in  t]uiek  oven  fifteen  minutes. — Mrs. 
E.  E.  Bernard. 

PARKER  HOUSE  ROLLS.  One  cake  yeast,  one  pint  sweet  milk,  tAvo  table- 
spoonfuls sugar,  four  tablespoonfuls  butter  or  lard,  four  pints  sifted  flour,  and 
one  teaspoonful  salt.  Scald  the  milk,  add  butter  and  allow  to  become  luke 
warm.  Add  yeast,  sugar,  salt  and  one-half  the  flour.  Beat  until  perfectly 
smooth,  cover  and  let  rise  in  Avarm  place  one  hour  or  until  light.  Then  add  the 
remainder  of  the  flour  and  knead  well.  Place  in  a  greased  boAvl,  cover  and  let 
rise  in  a  warm  place  until  double  its  bulk.  Roll  out  one  fourth  inch  thick,  brush 
over  wdth  melted  butter,  cut  out  with  large  size  biscuit  cutter,  fold  over  in 
pocket  book  shape.  Place  one  inch  apart  in  well-greased  shalloAv  pans,  cover 
and  let  rise.    Bake  ten  or  fifteen  minutes. — Mrs.  C.  H.  Shipp. 

35 


USE  DAN  VALLEY  SUPERLATIVE  FLOUR 


KNOX  GELATINE  improves  soups  and  gravies 


CORN  MEAL  SOUFFLE.  One  pint  sweet  milk,  three-fourths  cup  white  corn 
meal,  one  even  teaspoonful  salt,  one  tablespoonful  butter,  or  substitute,  four 
eggs.  Put  milk  on  in  a  double  boiler  and  Avhen  at  boiling  point  stir  in  sloAvly 
the  meal  and  salt.  Let  cook  one  hour;  then  take  off  the  fire  and  let  cool  a  little. 
Then  add  butter  or  substitute,  and  the  yolks  of  eggs  well-beaten.  Then  add  the 
w^ell-beaten  whites,  turn  into  a  well-buttered  baking  dish  and  set  it  in  a  pan 
of  Avarm  water,  put  in  stove  and  bake  twenty  or  thirty  minutes. — Mrs.  E.  J. 
Parrish. 

BOSTON  BROWN  BREAD.  One  cup  rye  meal,  one  cup  yellow  corn  meal, 
one  cup  graham  flour,  three-fourths  tablespoon  soda,  one  teaspoon  salt,  three- 
fourths  cup  molasses,  two  cups  buttermilk.  Mix  and  sift  dry  ingredients,  add 
molasses,  and  buttermilk,  turn  into  greased  mold  and  steam  five  hours.  Then 
take  out  and  bake  in  oven  one-half  hour. — Grace  W.  Atwood. 

EXTRA  MUFFINS.  Mix  and  sift:  One  cup  meal,  cup  flour,  one  half  tea- 
spoon salt,  four  teaspoonfuls  Royal  Baking  Powder,  one  tablespoonful  brown 
sugar.  Add  one  egg,  (beaten),  one  cup  milk,  two  teaspoonfuls  melted  butter. 
Mix  and  add:  One-half  cup  chopped  dates.  Bake  in  a  hot  oven. — Mrs.  E.  E. 
Bernard. 

ROLLS  OR  BUNS.  One  cup  creamed  potatoes,  (strain  and  use  the  water  in 
which  cooked),  two  yeast  cakes,  one  cup  sugar,  three  eggs  beaten,  one  half  cup 
water,  one  quart  flour.  Make  up  batter  overnight.  Two  quarts  of  flour,  salt, 
two-thirds  cup  shortening,  add  batter,  knead,  then  rise.  After  that,  make  out 
rolls  and  let  rise  about  two  hours  and  bake  in  moderate  oven  about  three-fourths 
of  an  hour. — Mrs.  E.  E.  Bernard. 

TEA  ROLLS.  Sponge :  One  cake  yeast,  one  cup  creamed  potatoes,  three- 
fourths  cup  sugar,  one  cup  warm  water  in  which  yeast  has  been  dissolved.  Another 
cup  of  warm  water,  mix  all  together.  This  sponge  will  last  for  several  days  if 
kept  in  a  cool  place  and  need  not  all  be  used  at  once.  To  make  the  rolls  one 
cup  of  the  sponge,  one  and  one-half  cups  of  flour,  one  teaspoonful  salt,  lard  the 
size  of  a  small  egg.  Knead  well,  roll  and  cut  out.  Put  in  muffin  rings  and 
let  set  for  three  hours  in  a  warm  place.  Bake  till  light  brown. — Mrs.  A.  G. 
Elliott. 

MUFFINS.  Two  cups  flour,  three  teaspoonfuls  Royal  Baking  Powder,  one 
tablespoonful  sugar,  one-half  teaspoonful  salt,  one  cup  milk,  two  eggs,  one 
tablespoonful  shortening.  Sift  together  flour,  baking  powder,  sugar  and  salt, 
add  milk,  well-beaten  eggs  and  melted  shortening.  Mix  well.  Grease  muffin  pans 
and  put  two  tablespoonfuls  of  batter  into  each.  Bake  in  hot  oven  twenty  or 
twenty-five  minutes. — Royal  Baking  Powder  Recipe. 

SPOON  BREAD.  Three  eggs,  two  cups  sour  milk,  butter  size  of  an  egg, 
small  teaspoon  of  soda,  one-half  cup  of  meal,  salt  to  taste.  To  mix:  beat  the 
eggs  separately,  to  yolks  add  milk,  butter,  meal  and  soda,  just  before  ready  to 
cook  add  the  stiff  well-beaten  whites.  Test  with  a  straw  to  be  sure  bread  is 
done  through. — Mrs.  J.  Ed.  Lyon. 

LOAF  BREAD— QUICK  METHOD.  Two  cakes  compressed  yeast,  three 
quarts  sifted  flour,  one  quart  lukeAvarm  water,  two  teaspoonfuls  salt,  two  table- 
spoonfuls  sugar,  two  tablespoonfuls  butter  or  Snowdrift.  Dissolve  yeast  in  half 
the  water.  In  the  other  half  dissolve  salt  and  sugar.  Mix  thoroughly,  then 
stir  in  gradually  the  flour.  Work  in  butter,  making  a  moderately  stiff  dough. 
Knead  well  for  ten  or  fifteen  minutes  until  you  see  bubbles  on  the  top.  Put  into 
large  boAvl  or  jar  greased  and  warm,  cover  closely.  Set  in  a  warm  place  to 
rise  until  doubled  in  size.  When  risen  make  into  three  loaves,  greasing  well  over 
surface,  placing  in  greased  pans  to  rise  again.  When  nearly  doubled  in  size 
place  in  moderately  hot  oven  and  bake  thirty  minutes.  If  loaves  are  bruslied 
over  with  a  little  butter  it  will  keep  crust  soft  and  a  rich  brown  crust.  About 
four  hours  will  be  required  to  do  this.  Half  milk  and  half  water  makes  a 
richer  loaf. — Mrs.  J.  M.  Whitted. 

36 


USE  DAN  RIVER  SELF-RISING  FLOUR 


KNOX  GELATINE  comes  in  two  packages— PLAIN  and  ACIDULATED 

(Lemon  Flavor) 


BEATEN  BISCUITS.  Put  one  and  one-half  teaspoonfuls  salt  to  one  and  one- 
half  quarts  of  flour.  Sift  twice  and  mix  well  with  a  teacupful  of  lard.  MoisteJi 
with  ice  water,  add  water  slowly  till  a  stiff  dough  is  formed.  Knead  well, 
then  beat  until  the  dough  blisters.  Roll  to  thickness  of  one-half  inch.  Cut  with 
small  cutter  and  bake  in  steady  strong  oven. — Mrs.  M.  S.  Whitted. 

NUT  BREAD.  One  egg,  two  cups  milk,  one  and  one-half  cups  sugar,  two 
tablespoonfuls  melted  lard,  five  cups  flour,  five  teaspoonfuls  Royal  Baking 
Powder  (rounded),  one  and  one-half  cups  nuts  (black  and  English  wahuits.) 
Beat  the  eggs,  add  sugar,  lard,  milk  and  flour.  Fill  loaf  pans  one-half  full, 
cover  and  let  stand  ten  minutes.  Bake  covered  in  moderate  oven  thirty  or  forty 
minutes. — Mrs.  I.  S.  Eubanks,  Domestic  S.  T. 

NUT  BREAD.  One  egg,  one-half  cup  sugar,  one  half  teaspoonful  salt,  three- 
fourths  cup  milk,  tw'o  cups  flour  (this  varies  some),  two  teaspoonfuls  Royal  Bak- 
ing Powder,  three-fourths  cup  chopped  walnuts  (other  nut  meats  may  be  used.) 
—Mrs.  F.  T.  Selby. 

SALLY  LUNN.  Beat  two  eggs  v;ell,  add  one  tablespoonful  sugar,  one  cup 
sweet  milk,  two-thirds  cup  yeast  or  one-half  yeast  cake,  dissolved  in  tAvo-thirds 
cup  Avater.  Rub  light  tablespoonful  butter,  same  of  lard  in  about  one  quart 
or  less  of  flour,  stir  in  the  other  ingredients,  use  just  enough  flour  to  make  a 
stiff  batter.  Let  it  rise,  beat  well,  pour  in  a  cake  mold  or  other  pan,  and  bake 
well  in  a  slow  oven. — Mrs  Gooch. 

CORN  BATTER  BREAD.  Scald  one  cup  meal  with  one  cup  boiling  water. 
Beat  two  eggs  light  and  add  one  cup  buttermilk,  teaspoonful  salt,  one-half 
teaspoonful  soda.  Stir  the  milk  in  the  eggs,  add  soda  and  salt,  then  the  meal. 
Melt  lard  the  size  of  a  walnut,  pour  in  and  bake  in  hot  oven  antil  brown. — Mrs. 
Gooch. 

MINUTE  MUFFINS.  Two  cups  flour,  one  teaspoonful  soda,  two  teaspoon- 
fuls cream  of  tartar,  one  teaspoonful  salt,  one  egg,  one  cup  milk,  two  table- 
spoonfuls  Karo  Corn  Syrup.  Will  make  twelve  muf&ns.  One-fourth  quantity 
corn  starch  may  be  substituted  for  all  of  flour. — Mrs.  A.  M.  Gates. 

BRAN  BREAD.  Two  cups  white  flour,  two  cups  bran,  two  teaspoonfuls  soda, 
two  cups  milk  (sweet  or  buttermilk),  one-half  cup  molasses,  one  teaspoonful 
salt,  one-half  cup  raisins  if  desired.  Bake  in  a  moderate  oven  one  hour. — Mrs. 
A.  M.  Gates. 

POTATO  CORN  BREAD.  Sweet  potatoes,  corn  meal,  salt.  Boil  or  bake 
several  sweet  potatoes.  Peel  while  hot  and  run  through  colander,  being  sure 
there  are  no  lumps  left.  Use  about  one-third  as  much  meal  as  there  are  potatoes. 
Salt  as  for  ordinary  bread.  Mix  with  spoon  and  if  necessary,  add  a  little 
water  as  the  mixture  must  not  be  stiff.  Put  into  a  shallow  pan  and  shape  to 
the  pan.  Bake  in  a  moderate  oven  until  a  good  brown.  This  should  be  made 
overnight  and  eaten  for  breakfast.    Very  good. — Mrs.  W,  W.  Shaw. 

CORN  BREAD.  Four  eggs,  one  pint  meal,  one  cup  flour,  one  half  cup  lard, 
one  teaspoonful  salt,  two  teaspoonfuls  Royal  Baking  Powder,  enough  milk  to 
make  a  thick  batter.  Add  one  tablespoonful  sugar  just  before  putting  into 
oven;  bake  thirty  minutes.    Serve  hot. 

LUNCHEON  ROLLS.  Add  four  teaspoonfuls  sugar  and  one  half  teaspoon- 
ful salt  to  one  cup  scalded  milk;  when  lukewarm  add  one  yeast  cake  dis- 
solved in  four  teaspoonfuls  lukewarm  water  and  one  and  one-half  cups  flour. 
Cover,  set  in  warm  place  to  rise ;  then  add  four  teaspoonfuls  melted  butter,  two 
eggs  well-beaten,  grated  rind  of  lemon  and  enough  flour  to  knead.  Let  rise 
again.  Then  roll  to  one-half  inch  in  thickness,  shape  with  a  small  biscuit  cutter, 
place  in  a  buttered  pan  close  together,  let  rise  again  and  bake. — Mrs.  Arthur 
Cole. 

37 

USE  DAN  VALLEY  SUPERLATIVE  FLOUR 


KNOX  GELATINE  is  GUARANTEED  to  please  or  money  back 


SOFT  GINGER  BREAD.  One-half  cup  sugar,  one-half  cup  butter,  two 
teaspoonfuls  soda  dissolved  in  one  cup  boiling  water,  two  and  one-half  cups 
flour,  one  cup  molasses,  one  teaspoonful  ginger,  cinnamon  and  cloves.  Add  two 
w^ell-beaten  eggs  the  last  thing  before  baking.  ("None  better.") — Mrs.  J.  L. 
Whitmobe. 

RAISIN  BREAD.  Two  cups  brown  sugar,  two-thirds  cup  shortening,  two 
cups  water,  three  cups  seedless  raisins,  pinch  of  salt,  two  teaspoonfuls  cinnamon, 
one  teaspoonful  cloves,  one -half  teaspoonful  nutmeg,  two  teaspoonfuls  Royal 
Baking  Powder,  one  teaspoonful  soda,  four  cups  flour,  three  tablespoonfuls  warm 
water. 

TEA  BISCUIT.  One  cake  Fleischmann 's  Yeast,  one-half  cup  scalded  milk, 
cooled,  one-half  cup  lukeAvarm  v>-ater,  one  tablespoonful  sugar,  three  and  one- 
half  cups  sifted  flour,  one  scant  teaspoonful  salt,  two  tablespoonfuls  lard  or 
butter  melted.  Dissolve  the  yeast  and  sugar  in  lukewarm  liquid.  Add  lard  or 
butter  and  half  the  tlour.  Beat  until  smooth.  Add  salt  and  then  the  rest  of 
the  flour,  or  enough  to  make  a  moderately  firm  dough.  Knead  thoroughly.  Roll 
out  and  cut  with  a  biscuit  cutter.  Place  in  well-greased,  shallow  pans,  slight 
distance  apart.  Cover  and  set  to  rise  about  two  hours  or  until  double  in  bulk. 
When  light,  bake  in  a  hot  oven  ten  minutes.  These  biscuits  are  delicious  and 
wholesome  hot,  and  very  pain tj  Me  cold. — The  Fleischmann  Co. 

WHITE  BREAD.  (Two  risings.)  Two  cakes  Fleischmann 's  Yeast,  one 
quart  lukewarm  water,  two  tablespoonfuls  sugar,  two  tablespoonfuls  lard  or 
butter,  three  quarts  sifted  flour,  one  tablespoonful  salt.  Dissolve  yeast  and 
sugar  in  lukeAvarm  water,  add  lard  or  butter,  and  half  the  flour.  Beat  until 
smooth,  then  add  salt  and  balance  of  the  flour,  or  enough  to  make  dough  that  can 
be  handled.  Knead  until  smooth  and  elastic.  Place  in  greased  bowl,  cover  and 
set  aside  in  a  moderately  Avarm  place,  free  from  draft,  until  light — about  one  and 
one-half  hours.  Mould  into  loaves.  Place  in  well-greased  bread  pans,  filling  them 
half  full.  Cover  and  let  rise  one  hour,  -or  until  double  in  bulk.  Bake  forty-five 
to  sixty  minutes. — The  Fleischmann  Co. 

NOTE :  One  cake  of  yeast  may  be  used  with  good  results ;  but  remember 
the  quicker  and  stronger  the  fermentation,  the  better  the  bread.  The  best 
bread  bakers  have  adopted  quick  methods. 

WHITE  BREAD.  (One  rising.)  Two  cakes  Fleischmann 's  Yeast,  one  quart 
lukewarm  water,  one  tablespoonful  salt,  two  tablespoonfuls  sugar,  three  and  one- 
half  quarts  sifted  flour,  two  tablespoonfuls  lard  or  butter.  Dissolve  the  yeast 
and  sugar  in  lukeAvarm  water.  Add  lard  or  butter  and  half  the  flour.  Beat 
until  smooth.  Add  salt  and  then  the  rest  of  the  flour,  or  enough  to  make  a 
moderately  firm  dough.  Knead  tlioroughly.  Mould  into  loaves.  Place  in  well- 
greased  pan,  filling  them  half  full.  Cover  and  let  rise  for  about  tAvo  hours,  or 
until  doublei  n  bulk.    Bake  forty-five  to  sixty  minutes. — The  Fleischmann  Co. 

CREAM  BATTER  BREAD.  One  pint  corn  meal;  pour  over  it  one  pint  hot 
water,  add  one-half  teaspoonful  salt,  a  heaping  tablespoonful  butter.  Stir  Avell 
and  then  add  three  well-beaten  eggs  and  one  quart  sour  milk  with  one  tea- 
spoonful soda  dissolved  in  it.  Bake  in  a  deep  pan  and  serve  hot  with  plenty 
of  butter. — Mrs.  H.  E.  Seem  an. 

CORN  FRITTERS.  One  egg,  one  cup  milk,  one  cup  corn,  two  teaspoonfuls 
Royal  Baking  Powder,  tAvo  cups  flour.  If  sour  milk  is  used,  add  one  leA^el 
teaspoonful  soda  to  the  sour  milk  instead  of  using  baking  poAvder.  Fry  in 
deep  fat  and  serA'e  hot  Avith  syrup ;  this  recipe  may  be  used  for  pancakes  by 
using  less  flour. — A  Friend. 

POP-OVERS.  One  cup  milk,  tAvo  eggs,  butter  the  size  of  a  Avalnut,  one  cup 
flour,  one-half  teaspoonful  salt.  Beat  the  eggs  thoroughly  and  stir  in  the  milk. 
Melt  the  butter  and  add  to  the  mixture.  Sift  the  salt  Avith  the  flour  and  stir 
this  gradually  into  the  egg,  milk,  and  butter  and  beat  it  until  it  makes  a  very 
smooth  batter.  Put  into  hot  greased  gem  pans  and  into  a  very  hot  oven  for 
thirtv  minutes. 

38 

USE  DAN  RIVER  SELF-RISING  FLOUR 


The  KNOX  ACIDULATED  package  contains  flavoring  and  coloring 


A  PRIZE  WAFFLE  EECIPE.  ^Lix  and  sift  thoroughly  two  and  one-half 
cups  white  flour,  four  level  teaspoonfuls  Royal  Baking  Powder  and  one  scant 
teaspconful  salt.  Separate  three  eggs,  ]>eating  the  yellows  to  a  cream  and 
the  whites  to  a  stiff  froth.  Add  the  yolks  and  one  and  one-half  cups  of  milk 
to  the  dry  mixture.  Then  add  one  and  one  half  tablespoonfuls  melted  shorten- 
ing and  lastly  fold  in  the  stiffly  beaten  vrhites.  This  makes  about  twelve  waffles. 
In  using  the  irons  for  waffles,  heat  them  thoroughly,  but  take  care  not  to  have 
them  too  hot,  as  in  a  smoking  state.  Have  a  grease  brush  and  grease  over  the 
irons  sutftciently  but  without  extra  fat.  Never  allow  any  smoke  to  occur. — Mrs. 
P.  T.  Elliott. 

WAFFLES  MADE  WITH  BUTTERMILK.  Two  eggs,  one  cup  buttermilk, 
one  cup  cold  water,  three  cups  flour,  three  easpoonfuls  Royal  Baking  Powder, 
one  level  teaspoonful  soda,  one  fourth  teaspoonful  cream  of  tartar,  one  tea- 
spoonful  sugar,  one  teaspoonful  salt,  one-half  cup  cooked  rice,  one  heaping  table- 
spoonful  shortening.  Break  eggs  into  bcAvl,  beat  a  little,  dissolve  soda  in  butter- 
milk, add  this  to  eggs,  then  water.  The  flour  should  be  sifted  once  before 
measuring.  Measure  the  three  cups,  put  in  sifter,  add  baking  powder,  cream  of 
tartar,  sugar  and  salt.  Then  sift  into  bowl,  beat  all  this  mixture,  melt  lard 
and  pour  into  batter,  then  beat  well. — Mrs.  M.  L.  Yearby. 


Cheese  and  Egg  Dishes 


"Digestive  cheese  and  fruit  there  sure  will  be." 
''Like  woman,  when  an  egg  is  good,  there  is  nothing  better;  when  it  is  had 

there  is  nothing  worse." 

CHEESE  BALLS.  Grind  or  cut  fine  one  pound  cream  cheese  and  add  enough 
cream  to  make  a  thick  paste,  add  one  cup  of  ground  walnuts  and  salt  and 
pepper  and  roll  into  balls  with  the  hands.  Place  in  the  ice  box,  until  served. 
— Mrs.  M.  F.  Markham. 

CHEESE  SOUFFLE.  Two  tablespoonfuls  butter,  tAVo  tablespoonfuls  flour, 
one-fourth  teaspoonful  salt,  three  fourths  teaspoonful  pepper,  one-half  cup  milk, 
one-half  cup  grated  cheese,  three  eggs.  Melt  butter,  add  flour,  mixed  with  salt 
and  pepper.  When  smooth  add  milk  and  grated  cheese.  Let  come  to  boiling 
point,  cool  slightly,  add  beaten  yolks  and  lastly  the  whites  stiffly  beaten.  Bake 
about  twenty-tive  minutes  in  a  -moderate  oven,  and  it  is  a  good  idea  to  put  the 
baking  dish  in  a  pan  of  water  when  put  in  the  oven. — Mrs.  M.  S.  Whitted. 

CHEESE  BISCUIT.  One-half  pound  sweet  butter,  one-half  pound  pot  cheese, 
one-half  pound  flour.  Cream  the  cheese  and  butter  together  and  add  the  flour. 
Let  thoro\ighly  chill,  roll  out  and  cut  the  size  of  a  small  biscuit.  Dip  one  side 
in  beaten  egg  and  cover  with  ground  almonds.  Bake  in  a  slow  oven  until  light 
brown.  When  cool  sprinkle  with  powdered  sugar.  Serve  with  tea  or  salad. — Miss 
AxxiE  Louise  Vaughan. 

CHEESE  BALLS.  Rub  to  a  paste  one  roll  Xeufchatel  Cheese,  to  this  add 
one-half  cup  chopped  pecan  meats  and  one-half  teaspoonful  finely  chopped  sweet 
peppers,  season  with  salt  and  roll  into  small  balls  the  size  of  queen  olives. 
Serve  with  fruit  pies. — Mrs.  W.  H.  Booxe. 

CHEESE  STRAWS.  One  pound  flour,  one-half  pound  butter,  one  pound 
grated  cheese,  little  red  pepper,  salt  and  lemon  juice.  Mix  with  milk  or  water, 
roll  out  to  a  thickness  of  one  inch,  cut  in  strips  and  bake  to  a  light  brown. — Mrs. 
M.  S.  Whitted. 

39 


USE  DAN  VALLEY  SUPERLATIVE  FLOUR 


KNOX  GELATINE  makes  Desserts,  Salads,  Candies,  Puddings,  Ices,  etc. 


PEPPER  CHEESE.  Remove  the  seeds  from  five  pods  of  sweet  pepper. 
Boil  till  tender  enough  to  cream  or  to  mash  to  a  pulp.  Remove  the  skins  from 
the  pepper.  Take  one  pound  of  cheese,  the  mashed  peppers,  a  pinch  of  salt,  and 
hot  red  pepper  to  suit  the  taste.  Run  through  food  chopper  or  cream  with 
fork  till  thoroughly  smooth  using  Wesson  Salad  oil  to  make  as  thin  as  paste. 
(Some  use  melted  butter.)    Serve  with  crackers. 

PUFF  OMELET.  Beat  the  yolks  of  six  eggs  and  to  them  add  a  tea  cup  of 
sweet  milk  and  a  pinch  of  salt.  Beat  together  a  tablespoonful  of  flour  and  a 
tablespoonful  butter.  Add  to  the  eggs  and  beat  together,  lastly  add  the  beaten 
whites.  Pour  the  mixture  into  a  hot  frying  pan,  in  which  a  tablespoonful  of 
lard  has  been  melted.  Cook  on  top  of  stove  until  nearly  done.  Then  set  in 
oven  and  brown.    Place  on  a  hot  dish  and  serve  at  once. — Mrs.  J.  T.  Jerome. 

EGGS  ON  TOAST.  Beat  the  whites  of  four  eggs  stiff.  Toast  four  slices  of 
bread  a  light  brown,  dip  them  quickly  in  hot  water  and  spread  lightly  with 
butter.  Pile  the  whites  on  toast  and  place  a  yolk  in  the  center  of  each  and  bake 
three  minutes.    Season  the  whites  with  a  little  salt  before  beating. 

TOMATO-CHEESE  SOUFFLE.  One  and  one-half  tablespoonfuls  crisco  or 
butter,  two  tablespoonfuls  flour,  one-fourth  teaspoonful  each  of  salt,  soda  and 
paprika,  one-half  cup  tomato  juice  (from  canned  tomatoes)  one  cupful  grated 
cheese,  three  eggs.  Heat  the  shortening,  when  hot  add  the  flour  and  mix  well. 
Then  add  the  seasoning  and  the  juice  and  cook  five  minutes.  Then  add  the 
grated  cheese.  Remove  from  the  fire  and  add  the  well-beaten  yolks  of  the  eggs 
and  mix  well.  Lastly,  fold  in  the  whites,  beaten  stiff.  Turn  into  a  well-greased 
baking  dish,  set  in  a  pan  of  hot  water  and  bake  until  w^ell  puffed  and  delicately 
colored,  (about  twenty -five  minutes.)  Serve  in  the  same  dish  as  soon  as  removed 
from  the  oven. — Mrs.  M.  N.  Garrard. 

CHEESE  STRAWS.  One  tablespoonful  butter,  two-thirds  cup  flour,  one  cup 
fresh  bread  crumbs,  one  cup  grated  cheese,  one-fourth  teaspoonful  salt,  one- 
eighth  teaspoonful  Avhite  pepper,  cayenne,  two  tablespoonfuls  milk.  Cream  but- 
ter, add  flour  crumbs  and  grated  cheese,  then  add  seasoning.  Mix  thoroughly, 
then  add  milk.  Roll  one-fourth  inch  thick;  cut  one-fourth  inch  wide  and  six 
inches  long.    Bake  until  brown,  in  a  moderately  hot  oven. 

WELSH  RAREBIT.  One  tablespoonful  butter,  one  teaspoonful  corn  starch, 
one-half  cup  thin  cream,  one-half  pound  mild  cheese  cut  in  small  pieces,  one- 
fourth  teaspoonful  salt,  one-fourth  teaspoonful  mustard.  Melt  butter,  add  corn 
starch  and  stir  until  well  mixed;  then  add  cream  gradually,  stirring  constantly. 
Cook  two  minutes,  add  cheese  and  stir  until  cheese  has  melted.  Serve  on  bread 
toasted  on  one  side.  Rarebit  being  poured  over  untoasted  side. — Mrs.  J.  A. 
Snipes. 

BAKED  CHEESE  PUDDING.  Cut  slices  of  bread  thin,  remove  crusts  and 
butter  well.  Butter  a  pan  and  lay  pieces  of  bread  in  bottom.  Cover  with  thin 
slices  of  cheese,  salt  and  a  speck  of  red  pepper.  Continue  doing  this  until  tin 
is  full,  then  beat  one  egg  in  cup  of  milk  and  pour  over  bread  and  cheese  and  bake 
in  hot  oven  twenty  minutes.  To  a  tin  holding  one  quart,  use  one  egg  and  a  cup 
of  milk,  and  one-half  pound  of  cheese.  A  larger  pudding  Avould  require  more 
milk  and  eggs  in  proportion. — Mrs.  Annie  Whitmore  Andrews. 

MOCK  CHICKEN  PIE.  Eight  hard  boiled  eggs,  (fewer  eggs  if  small 
pie)  one  loose  pint  of  flour  made  into  a  rich  biscuit  dough,  line  sides  and  bottom 
of  a  small  pan  with  rolled  out  dough  as  for  a  chicken  pie.  Put  in  alternate 
layers  of  eggs,  cut  thin  with  a  liberal  amount  of  butter  scattered  in  small  lumps, 
salt,  pepper  and  flour  sprinkled  over  them.  Then  put  in  strips  of  pastry  to  nearly 
cover  eggs,  butter,  salt,  pepper  and  flour.  When  pan  is  nearly  full  cover  with 
water.  Put  in  a  top  crust  which  should  have  the  water  in  pie  rise  over  it.  In 
baking  it  will  soon  absorb  the  water  thus  taking  in  the  flavor  of  the  pie. — Mrs. 
J.  W.  Roach. 

40 


USE  DAN  RIVER  SELF-RISING  FLOUR 


Use  KNOX  GELATINE  if  you  would  be  sure  of  results 


CHEESE  SALAD.  Moisten  with  milk  and  cream,  equal  parts,  two  small 
packages  of  cream  cheese,  and  work  until  smooth.  Add  one  cup  whipped  cream 
and  three-fourths  of  tablespoonful  oelatine  soaked  in  one-fourth  cup  water  and 
dissolved  over  hot  water.  Season  highly  with  salt  and  paprika  and  a  little 
onion  if  desired.  Turn  into  a  mould  first  dipped  in  cold  water.  Turn  from 
mould  when  well  set,  on  a  platter  garnished  Avith  lettuce  leaves.  Top  with 
mayonnaise.    This  makes  a  delicious  sandwich  spread  also. — Mrs.  W.  H.  Booxe. 

TOASTED  CHEESE  STICKS.  Cut  loaf  bread  into  sticks  and  toast.  Dip 
in  melted  Imtter  and  then  roll  in  grated  cheese  and  put  in  hot  oven  until  cheese 
is  melted  enough  to  be  soft.  Fine  to  serve  with  salads. — Mrs.  J.  S.  Smith,  Albe- 
marle, N.  C. 


Oysters  and  Fish 


^'He  was  a  hold  man  that  first  ate  an  oyster." 

BAKED  SHAD.  Dress  shad,  remove  the  roe.  Then  stuff  the  fish  with  a 
dressing  made  of  Vjread  crumbs,  salt  pork,  onion,  sage,  thyme,  parsley,  pepper  and 
salt.  Chop  all  together  fine,  stuff  the  fish  and  sew  up.  Place  in  a  pan  with 
three  or  four  slices  of  pork  over  it,  and  the  roe  at  the  side.  Place  in  oven  for 
one  hour  to  bake. — Mrs.  M.  S.  Whitted. 

FRENCH  MACKEREL.  Boil  the  slices  in  salt  Avater.  Then  make  a  dress- 
ing with  one  tablespoonful  butter  and  flour  beaten  together  well.  Pour  to  this 
boiling  water  enough  to  make  a  thick  gravy.  Let  it  boil  a  few  minutes  then 
serve  while  hot  with  the  fish.  Garnish  dish  with  bits  of  parsley^  celery  and 
slices  of  lemon. — Mrs.  M.  S.  Whitted. 

BAKED  FISH.  Have  the  fish  Avell-washed,  and  if  it  is  haddock,  small  cod 
or  any  small  fish,  the  black  skin  on  the  inside  can  be  removed  by  rubbing  briskly 
with  a  small  brush  dipped  in  salt.  Dry  the  fish  and  stuff.  SeAv  up  the  opening 
with  white  thread,  place  in  a  Avell-greased  pan  and  dredge  with  flour.  Put  a 
few^  slices  of  salt  pork  on  top,  and  baste  often  with  the  fat  in  the  pan,  adding 
more  if  needed.  Unless  the  fish  is  basted  often  it  is  likely  to  be  dry. — Mrs.  E. 
G.  Belvin. 

STUFFING  FOR  BAKED  FISH.  Three  slices  of  dry  bread,  two  table- 
spoonfuls  chopped  suet,  one  small  onion,  finely  minced;  one  tablespoon  chopped 
parsley,  one  egg,  salt  and  pepper  to  taste.    Mix  with  milk. — Mrs.  E.  G.  Belvin. 

SALMON  LOAF.  One  can  salmon,  drain  off  liquid,  remove  bone  and  skin 
and  mince  fine.  Add  one -half  cup  fine  bread  crumbs  seasoned  Avith  onion,  pepper 
and  salt.  Add  one  beaten  egg,  mix  Avell,  shape  into  loaf  and  turn  into  shalloAV 
baking  dish.  Melt  one  heaping  teaspoonful  butter  in  one-half  cup  of  hot  Avater 
and  pour  around  the  loaf.  Lay  several  thin  strips  of  bacon  OA'er  the  top  and 
bake  until  broAvn  basting  often.  Garnish  Avith  lettuce  or  parsley.  Mixture  can 
also  be  used  in  croquettes. — Mrs.  D.  F.  Parker. 

SALMON  BALLS.  One  can  salmon,  one  cup  milk,  one  egg,  pepper  and  salt 
to  taste,  cracker  crumbs  enough  to  thicken.  Form  into  flat  round  cakes  and 
fry  to  a  light  broAvn. — Mrs.  M.  S.  Whitted. 

BAKED  SALMON.  Into  a  baking  dish  put  one  can  of  salmon,  alternate 
Avith  cracker  crumbs,  salt,  pepper,  butter  and  a  little  bit  of  tomato  ketchup. 
Let  the  top  be  of  crumbs,  salt,  }K'pper.  Initter  and  ketchup.  Add  enough  water 
to  slightly  moisten.    This  is  delicious. — Mrs.  M.  S.  Whitted, 

41 


USE  DAN  VALLEY  SUPERLATIVE  FLOUR 


Simply  add  water  and  sugar  to  the  KNOX  ACIDULATED  pacakage 


FISH  TURBANS.  One  slice  white  fish  one  and  one-half  inches  thick,  about 
one  and  one-half  pounds,  one-fourth  cup  melted  butter,  one-eighth  teaspoonful 
pepper,  tAvo  teaspoonfuls  lemon  juice,  few  drops  more  juice,  one-fourth  tea- 
spoonful  salt.  Cut  fish  into  eight  fillets,  add  seasonings  to  melted  butter.  Pin 
fillets  into  round  shape  with  buttered  tooth  picks.  Dip  in  melted  butter.  Place 
in  a  greased  pan,  sprinkle  with  flour,  bake  fifteen  minutes  in  a  hot  oven.  Eeniove 
skeAvers.    Garnish  with  parsley.    Serve  with  Hollandaise  Sauce. 

HOLLANDAISE  SAUCE.  One-half  cup  butter,  yolks  of  two  eggs,  one  and 
one-half  tablespoonful  lemon  juice,  one-fourth  teaspoonful  salt,  one-sixteenth 
teaspoonful  cayenne,  one-half  cup  boiling  water.  Cream  the  butter  and  add 
the  yolks  one  at  a  time  and  beat  well.  Add  lemon  juice,  salt  and  pepper.  Just 
before  serving,  add  boiling  water  and  cook  in  a  double  boiler  to  consistency  of 
cream.  Serve  immediately. — Miss  Eunice  Chaplin,  (Domestic  Science  Teacher 
at  the  Durham  High  School.) 

BROILED  FISH.  Take  shad  or  any  kind  of  fish  you  like,  and  open  down 
the  back  and  remove  bone.  Use  butter  and  salt  and  just  a  little  flour,  broil  until 
good  and  brown.  Then  use  a  sauce  made  of  three  yolks  of  eggs,  butter  the  size 
of  an  egg,  juice  of  one  lemon  and  one  cup  boiling  Avater,  salt  and  pepper,  pour 
over  fish  and  garnish  Avith  lemon  and  parsley. — Mrs.  H.  E.  Seeman. 

ESCALLOPED  OYSTERS.  Remove  bits  of  shell  from  one  pint  of  oysters. 
Line  a  baking  dish  Avith  a  thin  layer  of  cracker  crumbs  crushed  fine,  then  a 
layer  of  oysters.  Put  bits  of  butter  OA'er  oysters,  also  pepper  and  salt.  Use 
alternate  layers  until  dish  is  full.  Add  SAveet  milk  enough  to  moisten  thoroughly 
and  bake  half  hour.  This  dish  goes  very  nicely  Avith  baked  chicken. — Mrs. 
E.  G.  Belvin. 

PANNED  OYSTERS  WITH  CRACKER  CRUMBS.  One  pint  oysters,  one 
tablespoonful  butter,  tAvo  cups  cracker  crumbs,  one-fourth  teaspoonful  black 
pepper.  Wash  and  dry  oysters.  Have  pan  very  hot,  drop  in  oysters,  add  butter, 
milk  and  pepper;  as  soon  as  oysters  puff  or  curl,  add  cracker  crumbs,  stir  in 
and  add  salt.    Serve  hot  AAdth  buttered  toast  or  saltines. — Mrs.  R.  E.  L.  Skinner. 

CORN  OYSTERS.  One  can  corn,  three  eggs,  one-fourth  cup  SAveet  milk, 
one-fourth  cup  butter,  cracker  meal  sufficient  to  make  a  stiff  batter.  Season  Avith 
pepper  and  salt.  Drop  from  tablespoon  into  hot  deep  fat,  should  rise  and  broAvu 
quickly. — Mrs.  W.  H.  Boone. 

CREAMED  SALMON.  One  and  one  half  tablespoonfuls  Crisco  or  butter,  tAvo 
heaping  tablespoonfuls  flour,  tAvo  and  one-half  cups  SAveet  milk,  tAvo  cupfuls 
canned  salmon,  salt  and  pepper  to  taste.  Make  a  cream  sauce  Avith  first  three 
ingredients,  add  salt  and  pepper;  mix  thoroughly  Avith  the  fish,  turn  into  a 
baking  dish,  cover  AA'ith  buttered  crumbs,  set  in  a  pan  of  hot  AA'ater  in  the  oven 
and  bake  until  the  crumbs  are  a  golden  broAvn.  Serve  in  the  dish  in  Avhich 
baked. — Mrs.  M.  N.  Garrard. 

FISH  IN  SHELLS,  OR  RAMEKINS.  One  can  Tuna  fish  picked  fine.  Make 
a  cream  sauce  of  one  pint  scalded  milk,  one  tablespoonful  butter,  tAvo  heaping 
tablespoonfuls  flour,  one-half  teaspoonful  salt,  little  pepper.  Cook  till  thick 
and  smooth  and  add  fish.  Cover  Avith  cracker  crumbs  and  dots  of  butter  Avhen 
in  shells  and  bake  in  oven  till  broAvn. — Mrs.  Annie  Whitmore  Andrea;vs. 


42 

USE  DAN  VALLEY  SUPERLATIVE  FLOUR 


For  Dainty  Delicious  Desserts  use  KNOX  GELATINE 


Salads 


Bestrewed  with  lettuce  and  cool  salad  herhs." 

FEOZEN  TOMATO  SALAD.  Open  one  quart  can  tomatoes  and  let  stand  one 
hour.  Add  three  tablespoonfuls  sugar  and  season  highly  with  salt  and  cayenne, 
then  run  through  a  sieve.  Turn  in  small  cocoa  boxes,  cover  tightly,  pack  in  salt 
and  ice,  using  equal  parts  of  salt  and  ice,  and  let  stand  about  three  hours.  Kemove 
from  mold  and  arrange  on  lettuce  leaves,  serve  with  mayonnaise. — Mrs.  Annette 
Markham. 

CANDLE  SALAD.  Arrange  one  slice  of  pineapple  on  a  bed  of  shredded  let- 
tuce, fill  center  of  pineapple  with  one-third  banana,  on  top  of  banana  scoop  out 
a  place  and  put  cherry  in  banana  and  serve  with  mayonnaise. — Mrs.  Annette 
Markham. 

GOLDEN  EOD  SALAD.  Separate  yolks  and  whites  of  four  hard-boiled  eggs, 
chop  whites  finely,  marinate  with  white  sauce.  Force  eggs  through  a  potato  ricer 
and  pile  on  center  of  whites. — Mrs.  Annete  Makkham. 

COCOANUT  SALAD.  One  can  of  sliced  pineapple,  cut  in  small  cubes,  add  two 
cups  shredded  cocoanut,  one-half  cup  olives,  one-half  cup  sweet  pickle,  one  can 
pimento  pepper,  mix  with  mayonnaise  dressing.  Garnish  with  mayonnaise,  serve  on 
lettuce. — Mrs.  Annette  Markham. 

CHICKEN  SALAD.  Two  chickens,  six  hard-boiled  eggs,  two  tablespoonfuls 
unmelted  butter,  one  tablespoonful  mustard,  one  teaspoonful  sugar,  one  teaspoonful 
salt,  one  half  teasponful  black  pepper,  Worchestershire  Sauce  one  tablespoonful, 
one-half  cup  vinegar,  one-half  cup  celery,  cut  up,  a  pinch  of  cayenne.  Cut  the 
boiled  chickens  into  pieces,  chop  hard-boiled  eggs  finely  and  mix  with  chicken; 
stir  the  other  ingredients  into  melted  butter  and  mix  Avell  with  salad.  If  not 
moist  enough  add  one  tablespoonful  more  melted  butter  and  vinegar  to  taste. 
— Mrs.  J.  R.  Patton. 

MAESHMALLOW  SALAD.  One  teaspoonful  salt,  one  teaspoonful  dry  mus- 
tard, one  tablespoonful  flour,  tAvo  tablespoonfuls  sugar.  Mix  these  together  well 
with  five  tablespoonfuls  vinegar.  Beat  the  yolks  of  five  eggs  well.  Mix  all  and 
place  in  a  double  boiler  and  cook  until  thick.  Eemove  from  stove  and  add  one 
teaspoonful  butter;  then  add  enough  cream  to  make  smooth.  Set  aside  to  cool, 
then  whip  one  pint  cream  and  mix  well  with  dressing:  three  cans  chunked  pine- 
apple, cut  in  cubes,  one  and  one-half  pounds  marshmallows,  cut  into  small  pieces. 
Mix  well,  pour  dressing  over,  and  let  stand  for  several  hours.  When  ready  to 
serve,  add  one  pound  shelled  pecans.  Serve  on  lettuce  leaves.  This  serves  twenty- 
four  plates. — Mrs.  E.  W.  Morris. 

GINGEE  ALE  SALAD.  One  bottle  ginger  ale,  one  box  lemon  jello,  one-half 
pound  malaga  grapes,  one  can  pineapple,  one-fourth  pound  pecans,  and  one  small 
bottle  cherries.  Serve  on  crisp  lettuce  with  mayonnaise  dressing. — Mrs.  C.  B. 
Green. 

POINSETTIA  SALAD.  L"se  Hiwaiian  pineapple,  spread  on  each  slice  a  thin 
layer  of  mayonnaise,  on  this  spread  grated  cheese,  then  cut  petals  from  the  red 
sweet  peppejs  or  pimentoes  to  form  flower.  Fill  center  with  mayonnaise  and  in 
center  of  this  put  a  stuffed  olive.    Serve  on  lettuce. — Mrs.  E.  G.  Belvin. 

WALDOEF  SALAD.  Mix  an  equal  quantity  of  sliced  celery  and  apples, 
add  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  pecans  or  English  walnuts,  chopped  fine.  Put  over 
a  tablespoonful  lemon  juice  and  sufficient  mayonnaise  dressing  to  thoroughly 
cover.  To  be  absolutely  correct,  this  salad  should  be  served  Avithout  lettuce,  it 
can  however  be  dished  on  lettuce  leaves. — Mrs.  J.  E.  Lyon. 

43 


USE  DAN  RIVER  SELF-RISING  FLOUR 


Try  KNOX  ACIDULATED  GELATINE  with  the  Lemon  Flavor  enclosed 


MAYONNAISE  DRESSING.  Whites  of  two  eggs,  beaten  to  a  stiff  froth. 
Into  the  yolks  of  two  eggs  well-beaten,  stir  light,  teaspoonful  salt  and  one  of 
mustard.  Add  slowly  two  tablespoonfuls  of  cream  or  sweet  milk;  gradually  two 
tablespoonfuls  vinegar,  and  very  slowly  two  tablespoonfuls  melted  butter.  Cook 
over  hot  water,  stirring  constantly  until  it  thickens,  then  beat  it  into  the  whites. 
— Mrs.  M.  F.  Markham. 

MAYONNAISE  DRESSING.  Yolk  of  one  egg,  one  tablespoonful  of  apple 
vinegar,  salt  to  taste,  dash  of  cayenne  or  ground  red  pepper  (hot  pepper).  Place 
all  in  a  deep  bowl  and  beat  with  egg  beater  till  mixed.  Add  Wesson  Salad  Oil, 
a  tablespoonful  at  a  time,  and  continue  beating  till  the  mixture  is  stiff  enough 
to  almost  cut.  Use  this  on  lettuce,  tomatoes,  chicken  or  any  kind  of  salad.  It 
also  makes  a  nice  filling  for  pepper  or  other  sandwiches. 

PERFECTION  SALAD.  One  envelope  Knox  gelatine,  one-half  cup  cold  water, 
one-half  cup  mild  vinegar,  one  pint  boiling  water,  one  teaspoonful  salt,  one  cup 
fine  shredded  cabbage,  juice  of  one  lemon,  one-half  cup  sugar,  two  cups  celery,  cut 
into  small  pieces,  one-fourth  can  sweet  red  peppers,  cut  fine.  Soak  gelatine  in 
cold  water  five  minutes,  add  vinegar,  lemon  juice,  boiling  water,  sugar  and  salt. 
Then  strain  and  when  beginning  to  set,  add  other  ingredients.  Turn  into  a  mold 
and  chill.   Serve  on  lettuce  leaves  with  mayonnaise. — Mrs.  E.  E.  Bernard. 

GINGER  ALE  SALAD.  Dissolve  one  envelope  Knox  gelatine  in  cup  hot 
water,  juice  of  one  can  of  white  cherries,  juice  of  two  lemons,  three  rounded 
teaspoonfuls  sugar,  one  can  sliced  pineapple,  cut  into  dices,  one  bottle  canned 
white  cherries,  one  bottle  of  ginger  ale.  Let  juice  of  cherries  and  the  pineapple 
come  to  boiling  point,  add  to  the  dissolved  gelatine  juice  of  lemons  and  sugar. 
Add  ginger  ale,  stir  thoroughly,  and  add  fruit  after  the  cherries  have  been  stoned. 
If  preferred  you  may  use  package  of  Jello  dissolved  in  one-half  j)int  Avater  leaving 
out  lemons  and  sugar.  Serve  this  on  crisp  lettuce  with  mayonnaise,  and  saltines. 
.This  is  a  popular  salad  when  tried  once. — Mrs.  W.  S.  Borland. 

PEANUT  AND  LETTUCE  SALAD.  To  one  pint  finely  chopped  lettuce,  add 
one-half  pint  well-beaten  salted  peanuts,  one  teaspoonful  sugar.  Mix  well  and 
serve  either  wath  mayonnaise  or  French  dressing. — Mrs.  J.  E.  Lyon. 

RUSSIAN  DRESSING.  One  cup  mayonnaise,  one  half  green  pepper  chopped 
fine,  one  half  sweet  red  pepper  chopped  fine,  two  tablespoonfuls  sweet  oil,  one 
teaspoonful  vinegar,  three  tablespoonfuls  chile  sauce.  Serve  with  head  lettuce. 
— Miss  Annie  Louise  Vaughan. 

JELLIED  WALDORF  SALAD.  Dissolve  one  package  lemon  jello  in  one  pint 
boiling  water  and  two  tablespoonfuls  of  vinegar.  While  cooling  chop  one  cup 
tart  apples,  one  cup  English  walnuts,  one  cup  celery  and  season  wdth  salt.  Mix 
these  ingredients  and  pour  over  them  the  jello.  Cool  in  individual  molds  and 
serve  wdth  mayonnaise,  on  crisp  lettuce  leaves  garnished  with  pimentoes  or 
cherries. — Mrs.  D.  F.  Parker. 

FRUIT  SALAD.  One  can  sliced  pineapple,  one  can  white  cherries,  one-fourth 
pound  almonds,  one-half  package  Knox  Gelatine  added  to  the  juice.  Mix  with 
French  Dressing  and  mold. — Mrs.  Frank  Stone. 

CREAM  SALAD  DRESSING.  Two  tablespoonfuls  butter,  three  tablespoonfuls 
flour,  one  tablespoonful  sugar,  white  pepper,  cayenne,  one  teaspoonful  salt,  one 
teaspoonful  mustard,  one  cup  milk  or  w'ater,  one-fourth  cup  vinegar,  two  eggs. 
Melt  butter,  add  flour  and  stir.  Add  milk  or  water  gradually  and  cook  until 
thick,  stirring  constantly.  Add  hot  liquid  to  the  beaten  eggs  to  which  has  been 
added  the  seasonings.  Cook  in  doulfle  l)oiler,  stirring  constantly,  until  thick. 
Remove  from  fire  and  add  vinegar.  Whipped  cream,  folded  in  when  ready  to  use, 
makes  a  pleasing  addition  for  fruit  salads. — Miss  Eunice  Chaplin. 

POTATO  SALAD.  Two  cups  boiled  potatoes  diced,  one  cup  shredded  cabbage 
or  apple  diced,  one  large  oniou,  one-half  cup  nut  meats,  several  sprigs  parsley. 
Mix  with  mayonnaise  dressing. — Mrs.  Arthur  Cole. 

44 


USE  DAN  VALLEY  SUPERLATIVE  FLOUR 


KNOX  GELATINE  makes  dainty  desserts  for  dainty  people 


CREAM  DRESSIXG  (BOILED;.  One  cup  butter  and  one-half  cup  sugar 
creamed  ;  add  one  tablespoonful  salt^  one  of  mustard,  a  pinch  of  cayenne  pepper. 
Then  add  four  eggs,  one  at  a  time,  beating  thoroughly.  Next  one  cup  of  cream 
and  lastly  one  and  one-half  pints  of  boiling  vinegar.  Stand  over  fire  until  it  ap- 
proaches the  boiling  point;  remove  and  bottle.  It  is  nice  with  potato  salad. — Mrs. 
R.  B.  SUITT. 

CZARIXA  SALAD.  (Xice  to  serve  -with  meats.)  Two  teaspoonfuls  Knox 
Gelatine,  one-half  cup  cold  water,  one  cup  spiced  vinegar,  one-half  cup  tomatoes, 
onion  to  taste,  one  apple,  one-fourth  cup  sweet  green  pepper,  one-half  cup  celery, 
two  teaspoonfuls  nut  meats.  Soak  the  gelatine  in  cold  water,  add  boiling  hot 
vinegar.  When  cool  add  the  other  ingredients  and  pour  into  wet  mold.  When 
firm  turn  out,  cut  into  any  desired  shape  and  serve  with  mayonnaise  dressing. 
— Mrs.  Arthur  Cole. 

PEAR  SALAD.  Pears,  salad  dressing,  lettuce,  cream  cheese.  Put  nice  look- 
ing piece  lettuce  on  a  salad  plate,  place  one-half  pear  on  same,  roll  cream  cheese 
in  small  ball,  and  put  in  center  of  pear,  with  one  spoonful  salad  dressing  on  top. 
— Miss  Margaret  Dawsox. 

IRISH  POTATO  SALAD.  Six  potatoes,  one  onion,  one  teaspoouful  salt,  one- 
fourth  teaspoonful  pepper,  three  hard-boiled  eggs,  one  half  cup  vinegar,  one  tea- 
spoonful  butter,  one  teaspoonful  sugar.  Boil  and  peel  potatoes,  cut  into  dice,  heat 
vinegar  and  add  it  to  all  other  ingredients  but  the  eggs.  Mash  egg  yolks  and 
pour  over  them  the  hot  vinegar.  ]\Iix  witn  potatoes,  serve  garnished  with  the  egg 
whites,  cut  into  circles  and  some  of  the  mashed  yolks. — Miss  Jexxie  Bel¥IX. 

TOMATO  SALAD.  Make  tomato  jelly  mixture;  wash  and  cut  celery  in  thin 
slices,  crosswise ;  this  should  be  one  cup.  Peel  and  core  two  large  apples,  cut  in 
slices  and  in  small  pieces.  Chop  one  cup  walnut  meats,  mix  celery,  apple  and  nut 
meats  and  moisten  with  mayonnaise.  Put  one  tablespoonful  tomato  jelly  in  each* 
individual  mold.  Then  add  the  other  mixture  and  cover  with  jelly.  ChiU,  turn: 
from  molds  and  garnish  with  water  cress. — Mrs.  M.  F.  Maekham. 

DRESSIXG  FOR  LETTUCE  OR  TOMATOES.  One-half  cup  vinegar,  one  tea- 
spoonful mustard,  same  of  flour,  two  teaspoonfuls  sugar,  one  cup  sour  cream. 
Cook  and  pour  into  one  well-beaten  egg.  Let  thicken  and  cool  before  using. 
— Mrs.  Faxxie  Gooch. 

HADES  SALAD.  One  gallon  cabbage,  one-half  gallon  green  tomatoes,  one 
C|uart  onions,  one  quart  green  sweet  peppers  (seeded)  chop  all  fine,  put  in  bag 
and  let  drip  weU.  Take  one-half  gallon  vinegar,  two  pounds  sugar,  two  ounces 
celery  seed,  two  ounces  cinnamon,  four  tablespoonfuls  ground  mustard,  two  table- 
spoonfuls  salt,  one-half  ounce  cloves,  two  ounces  tumeric,  five  cents  worth  mustard 
seed,  mix  all  well  and  let  boil  twenty  minutes. — ]Mrs.  Alvis  K.  Umstead. 

TOMATO  SALAD.  Boil  together  the  juice  of  one  can  of  tomatoes,  four 
average  stalks  of  celery,  a  little  red  pepper,  juice  of  one  lemon,  one  onion  and 
salt  to  taste.  Strain,  add  water  sufficient  to  make  one  pint  liquid.  Bring  to  boil- 
ing point  again  and  dissolve  one  package  of  lemon  jello.  Put  in  large  shallow 
vessel  to  chill.  When  ready  to  serv.-,  eut  out  with  ordinary  cookie  cutter  and  serve 
on  lettuce  leaves  with  mayonnaise  dressing.  When  arranged  artistically  this  makes 
the  appearance  of  a  beautiful  flower,  and  is  delicious. — Mrs.  S.  E.  Mercer. 

PEPPER  RELISH.  Chop  fine  one  dozen  red  peppers  (the  sweet  kind)  one 
dozen  green  sweet  peppers,  one  dozen  onions,  four  tablespoonfuls  salt.  Pour  boil- 
ing water  on  the  mixture  and  let  stand  five  niinutes.  Drain  and  add  three  pints 
of  vinegar,  two  cups  sugar  and  cook  five  minutes. — Mrs.  Alvis  K.  Umstead. 

TOMATO  SALAD.  Peel  medium-sized  tomatoes,  take  cream  cheese  and  mix 
with  tomato  catsup,  cream  this  together  until  soft.  Cut  the  tomatoes  through  in 
Cjuarters,  place  about  a  tablespoonful  of  cheese  mixture  on  top,  then  sprinkle  with 
nuts.   Serve  on  lettuce  with  mayonnaise. — Mrs.  M.  F.  Yearby. 

45 


USE  DAN  RIVER  SELF-RISING  FLOUR 


KNOX  ACIDULATED  GELATINE  saves  the  cost,  time  and  bother  of 
squeezing  lemons 


SCOTCH  WOODCOCK  SALAD.  One  cupful  English  Avalnut  meats,  one  half 
cup  celery,  six  large  olives.  Cut  up  all  with  a  knife,  the  celery  very  fine,  and 
turn  over  it  the  folloAving  dressing:  one-half  teaspoonful  Armour's  Extract  of 
Beef,  one  large  tablespoonful  butter,  one  tablespoonful  flour,  one  cupful  hot  milk, 
one  cupful  cheese  (cut  fine),  one-half  teaspoonful  parsley  (chopped),  one  fourth 
teaspoonful  salt,  dash  of  paprika.  To  prepare,  put  butter  in  dish  over  hot  water. 
When  melted  stir  in  the  flour,  then  add  hot  milk,  paprika,  parsley  and  salt.  After 
stirring  this  mixture  until  it  has  become  smooth,  add  Extract  of  Beef  and  cheese. 
Stir  until  the  cheese  is  dissolved.  Serve  on  lettuce  leaves  and  garnish  Avith  rosetted 
radishes. — Mrs.  M.  F.  Markham. 

BUTTERFLY  SALAD.  Drain  sliced  pineapple  of  all  juice.  Cut  slices  in 
half.  Lay  two  halves  on^salad  plate  with  curved  edges  together,  but  one-half  inch 
apart.  Press  grated  cheese  into  a  roll  the  size  of  the  little  finger  for  the  body  of 
the  butterfly.  Cut  tiny  strips  of  pimento  for  the  antennae  and  round  pieces  for 
the  spots  on  the  wings.  Pass  the  mayonnaise. — Miss  Eunice  Chaplin,  Domestic 
Science  Teacher  at  D.  H.  S. 

GRAPEFRUIT  SALAD.  One  pint  strong  lemonade,  pulp  of  three  grapefruit, 
one  package  Knox  Gelatine,  use  two  lemons  to  make  the  lemonade.  Dissolve 
gelatine.  Fix  grapefruit,  after  removing  pulp,  squeeze  all  juice  from  grapefruit. 
Mold  in  any  desired  shape.  This  will  make  about  fif4:een  individual  molds. — Mrs. 
M.  F.  Yearby. 

BOILED  SALAD  DRESSING.  One  tablespoonful  butter  (melted),  one  table- 
spoonful flour,  one  teaspoonful  sugar,  one  teasjDoonful  salt,  one  teaspoonful  mus- 
tard, dash  of  cayenne,  one  cup  milk,  one-half  cup  vinegar,  three  eggs.  Make  a 
white  sauce  of  dry  ingredients,  butter  and  milk;  when  smooth  add  gradually  the 
hot  vinegar.  When  thickened  pour  onto  the  beaten  egg.  Place  in  double  boiler 
and  cook  gently  for  a  few  minutes.  Strain  and  cool.  Nice  for  potatoes,  cabbage, 
fruit  and  nut  salads. — Mrs.  M.  F.  Markham. 

FROZEN  SALAD.  Yolks  of  seven  eggs,  beaten  with  one-half  cup  sugar,  pinch 
red  pepper,  one-half  teaspoon  salt,  pinch  of  dry  mustard,  (or  one-half  teaspoon 
prepared  mustard.)  Heat  one-half  cup  vinegar  and  kitchen  spoonful  of  butter  in 
pan,  and  add  the  beaten  yolks,  stirring  till  very  thick.  Remove,  and  when  cold  thin 
with  whipped  cream.  Add  one  can  of  pineapple  and  one  of  peaches,  cut  small. 
Pack  in  mold  and  freeze,  and  ice,  and  salt  in  proportions  used  for  mousses,  etc. 
Half  for  small  family. — Mrs.  Thos.  H.  Leary. 

WHITE  SALAD.  Two  packages  lemon  Jello,  one  can  white  cherries,  one 
can  pineapple.  Make  jello  by  directions  on  box.  Allow  mixture  to  cool  and 
add  seeded  cherries  and  pineapple.  Place  in  refrigerator  or  in  a  cool  place  and 
allow  to  congeal.  Serve  on  lettuce  leaves  with  mayonnaise  as  a  salad,  or  with 
whipped  crQam  as  a  dessert. — Mrs.  R.  A.  Knight. 

PERFECTION  SALAD.  One  envelope  Knox  Sparkling  Gelatine,  one  half 
cup  cold  water,  one-half  cup  mild  vinegar,  two  tablespoonfuls  lemon  juice,  two 
cups  boiling  water,  one-half  cup  sugar,  one  teaspoonful  salt,  one  cup  cabbage, 
finely  shredded,  two  cups  celery,  cut  in  small  pieces,  two  pimentoes,  cut  in  small 
pieces.  Soak  gelatine  in  cold  water  five  minutes.  Add  vinegar,  lemon  juice, 
boiling  water,  sugar,  and  salt.  Strain,  and  when  mixture  begins  to  stiffen,  add 
remaining  ingredients.  Turn  into  mold,  first  dipped  in  cold  water,  and  chill. 
Remove  to  bed  of  lettuce  or  endive.  Garnish  with  mayonnaise  dressing,  or  cut 
in  cubes,  and  serve  in  cases  made  of  red  or  green  peppers,  or  turn  into  molds 
lined  with  canned  pimentoes.  A  delicious  accompaniment  to  cold  sliced  chicken 
or  veal. 

FRUIT  SALAD.  Four  oranges,  three  apples,  two  bananas;  remove  all  skin 
and  cut  in  small  pieces,  one  small  can  of  pineapple,  diced,  one  cup  California 
grapes,  cut  in  half,  remove"  seeds,  one  cup  of  English  walnuts,  one-half  cup 
candied  cherries. — Mrs.  C.  L.  Hornaday. 

46 


USE  DAN  VALLEY  SUPERLATIVE  FLOUR 


See  that  the  name  K-N-O-X  is  on  each  package  of  gelatine  you  buy 


MAYONNAISE  FEUIT  SALAD.  Tlie  juice  of  one  orange,  the  juice  of  one- 
half  lemon,  one-half  cup  sugar,  butter  size  of  a  walnut^  three  eggs  beaten  very 
light,  one-half  cup  of  pure  apple  juice.  Cook  iu  double  boiler  to  smooth  paste. 
Add  one  cup  of  whipped  cream  when  ready  to  put  over  fruit  salad. — Mrs.  C. 

L.  HORXADAY. 

BISQUE  TORTONI.  Three  fourths  cup  sugar,  one-half  cup  water,  boil 
until  it  spins  a  thread;  take  from  stove  and  stir  slowly  in  three  eggs  which  have 
been  whipped  light.  Beat  until  perfectly  cold,  flavor  with  two  teaspoonfuls 
vanilla  or  a  little  sherry  wine  (about  two  tablespoonfuls.)  Beat  into  this  one 
pint  whipped  cream.  Eoll  fine  some  stale  macaroons  (eight  or  ten)  add  them. 
Then  put  in  mold,  pack  in  ice  and  freeze  for  several  hours  (four). — Ethel  C. 
Lipscomb. 

LUNCHEON  SALAD.  One  envelope  Knox  Sparkling  Gelatine,  one  cup  cold 
water,  one  and  one-half  cups  boiling  water,  one-half  cup  lemon  juice,  one-half 
cup  sugar,  three  tart  apples,  one  cup  celery,  cut  in  small  pieces,  one-half  cup 
pecan  nut  meats.  Soak  gelatine  in  cold  water  five  minutes,  and  dissolve  in  boil- 
ing water.  Add  lemon  juice  and  sugar.  Wlien  mixture  l^egins  to  stiffen,  add 
apples,  sliced  in  small  pieces,  chopped  celery  and  broken  nut  meats.  Turn  into 
mold,  first  dipped  in  cold  water,  and  chill.  Accompany  with  mayonnaise  dress- 
ing.   This  mixture  may  be  served  in  cases  made  from  bright  red  apples. 


Pies 


"No  soil  upon  earth  is  so  dear  to  our  eyes, 

As  the  soil  ice  first  stirred  in  terrestrial  pies." 

QUICK  LEMON  PIE.  Three-fourths  cup  sugar,  three  eggs,  (yolks)  one 
tablespoon  flour,  one  tablespoon  water,  juice  and  rind  of  one  lemon,  pinch  of 
salt.  Mix  sugar,  flour  and  salt  together,  add  well-beaten  yolks,  grated  rind 
and  juice  of  lemon  and  water.  Don't  have  the.  batter  too  thin.  Put  on  the 
uncooked  crust  and  cook  all  together.    Meringue  the  pie. — Mrs.  A.  G.  Elliott. 

CREAM  PIE.  One-fourth  cup  sugar,  two  and  one -half  tablespoonfuls  corn 
starch,  two  eggs,  (yolks)  two  and  one-half  cups  milk,  one  teaspoonful  vanilla. 
Mix  sugar  and  corn  starch  and  yolks  of  eggs  together  with  a  small  quantity  of 
the  milk.  When  well-mixed  add  remainder  of  milk,  cook  until  it  thickens  in 
a  double  boiler.  Cool,  fill  shells  already  baked,  add  frosting,  and  brown  a  little 
if  desired.    Delicious — Miss  Maggie  Albright. 

BUTTER  SCOTCH  PIE.  Two  eggs,  one  cup  broAMi  sugar,  two  heaping  table- 
spoonfuls flour,  one  cup  hot  water.  Butter  size  of  an  egg,  one  teaspoonful  vanilla. 
Mix  sugar  and  flour,  add  boiling  water,  then  the  beaten  yolks  of  the  eggs, 
cook  for  a  feAv  minutes,  add  butter.  Let  boil  until  it  thickens  well,  remove  from 
fire,  cool,  add  flavoring.  Use  stitfly  beaten  whites  as  meringue  on  top  of  pie. 
This  makes  one  nice  large  pie. — Miss  Claudia  Conrad. 

LEMON  PIE.  (2  Pies).  One  and  one-half  cups  flour,  one-half  teaspoon  salt, 
one-half  teaspoon  Royal  Baking  Powder,  one  teaspoonful  sugar,  two-thirds  cup 
Snowdrift,  cold  water  to  make  a  soft  dough.  Filling:  Yolks  of  four  eggs,  rind 
and  juice  of  two  lemons,  two  cups  sugar,  one  and  one-half  cup  milk,  one-eighth 
pound  butter,  pinch  salt,  two  tablespoonfuls  corn  starch.  Beat  eggs,  add  sugar, 
milk  and  lemons,  salt  and  butter.  Let  boil  in  saucepan,  then  add  corn  starch 
mixed  with  milk.  For  meringue  beat  egg  whites  stiff"  and  add  eight  tablespoon- 
fuls sugar. — Mrs.  Burke  Hobgood. 

47 


USE  DAN  RIVER  SELF-RISING  FLOUR 


KNOX  ACIDULATED  GELATINE— no  bother— no  trouble— no  squeezing  lemons 


PRUNE  AXD  RAISIN  PIE.  Three-fourths  pound  stewed  prunes,  one  and 
one-half  cups  seedless  raisins,  one  cup  sugar,  lemon  juice  from  one-half  lemon. 
Bake  in  double  crust  and  serve  when  cold  with  whipped  cream. — Miss  Jennie 
Dawson. 

BANANA  CREAM  PIE.  Bake  pie  crust  first  and  cool.  Then  take  yolks 
of  three  eggs,  three-fourths  cup  sugar,  one  cup  milk,  one  tablespoon  flour.  Cook 
until  it  thickens  well,  slice  three  well-ripened  bananas^  lay  in  layers  on  top  of 
crust,  pour  over  the  bananas  the  cooked  custard  while  warm.  Use  beaten  Avhites 
for  meringue  on  top. — Miss  Claudia  Conrad. 

LEMON  PIE.  Two  cups  of  flour,  pinch  of  salt,  one  cup  of  Snowdrift,  wet 
with  enough  cold  water  to  make  a  nice  soft  dough.  Filling:  Mix  thoroughly 
two  cups  of  sugar  and  three  heaping  tablespoonfuls  of  corn  starch,  then  pour 
in  two  cups  of  boiling  water  stirring  all  the  time.  Add  butter  size  of  an  egg, 
set  aside  to  cool.  Then  add  grated  rind  and  juice  of  two  lemons  and  three  well- 
beaten  eggs.  Bake  with  two  crusts.  This  will  make  two  large  pies. — Mrs.  T.  A. 
Winder. 

JELLY  CUSTARD  PIE.  One  glass  of  jelly,  four  eggs^  one  cup  sugar,  one 
tablespoonful  butter,  one  teaspoonful  corn  starch.  Separate  the  eggs;  set  aside 
the  whites.  Beat  the  yolks  well,  add  sugar,  jelly,  melted  butter,  and  corn 
starch.  Pour  into  two  pie  crusts,  bake  in  a  slow^  oven.  When  brown  cover  with 
meringue,  made  of  the  whites  stiffly  beaten  with  four  teaspoonfuls  sugar.  Set 
back  in  stove  and  brown.    Serve  hot  or  cold. — Mrs.  S.  Bowling. 

JELLY  CUSTARD  PIE.  Proceed  as  for  any  other  egg  custard,  except  in- 
stead of  sugar,  use  a  glass  of  tart  jelly.  Use  thick  meringue.  This  is  delicious, 
— Mrs.  E.  Gr.  Belvin. 

CHOCOLATE  PIE.  Two  squares  chocolate  or  one-half  cup  cocoa,  one-fourth 
cup  corn  starch,  one  teaspoon  vanilla,  two  cups  milk,  three  egg  w^hites,  one- 
half  cup  sugar,  three  egg  yolks,  one-fourth  teaspoon  salt.  Melt  chocolate,  add 
sugar,  corn  starch,  egg  yolks,  salt  and  milk.  Cook  in  double  boiler  till  thick, 
stirring  constantly,  add  vanilla.  Pour  on  one  baked  pie  crust,  cover  wdth  a 
meringue,  made  by  beating  egg  whites,  till  stiff,  adding  two  tablespoonfuls  of 
sugar.  Brow-n  in  slow  oven  and  serve  cold. — Mrs.  Geneva  Cheatham  Apple- 
white. 

CHOCOLATE  PIE.  Three  eggs,  separated,  butter  size  of  an  egg,  two  cups 
of  sugar  (brown),  three  tablespoonfuls  grated  chocolate,  one  cup  sweet  milk, 
two  round  tablespoonfuls  flour.    Icing  same  as  for  lemon  pie. — Mrs.  J.  Ed.  Lyon. 

COCOANUT  PIE.  Tw^o  cups  white  sugar,  three  eggs,  separated,  butter  size 
of  an  egg,  cream  these.  Three  large  tablespoonfuls  grated  bread  crumbs,  one 
grated  cocoanut  and  the  milk.    Icing  same  as  for  lemon  pie. — Mrs.  J.  Ed.  Lyon. 

LEMON  PIE.  Two  cups  of  white  sugar,  three  eggs,  separated,  butter  the 
size  of  an  egg,  cream  these.  Three  lemons  and  grated  rind  of  one,  one  heaping 
tablespoon  corn  starch  dissolved  in  cold  water.  Stir  this  into  one  cup  boiling 
water.   Mix  with  other  ingredients.    Bake  in  rich  pastry  shell. — Mrs.  J.  E.  Lyon. 

MERINGUE  FOR  PIES.  Whites  of  three  eggs.  Use  one  tablespoonful  of 
sugar  for  each  egg.    Add  vanilla. — Mrs.  J.  E.  Lyon. 

^  LEMON  PIE.  Thpree  eggs  beaten  separately,  (two  whites  for  frosting), 
three-fourths  cup  sugarF  Beat  sugar  and  eggs  together,  and  add  one  tablespoon- 
ful butter,  one  tablespoonful  flour,  one  cup  of  cold  watery  one  lemon  rind  and 
juice. — Mrs.  M.  F.  Markham. 

CARAMEL  PIES.  Cream  together  one  cupful  butter  and  one  cup  sugar, 
add  yolks  of  five  eggs  (yolks  and  whites  beaten  separately)  and  one  cup  pressed 
damsons,  rerao\dng  the  seed.  Beat  all  together  very  light  and  flavor  Avith  a 
tablespoonful  of  vanilla.  Bake  on  pastry.  This  makes  two  pies  in  ordinary  pie 
plates. — Miss  Maggie  Albright. 

48 


USE  DAN  VALLEY  SUPERLATIVE  FLOUR 


Where  recipes  call  for  Gelatine  use  KNOX  GELATINE 


CHESS  PIE.  Five  eggs,  one-half  cup  vinegar,  one-half  cup  butter,  one  and 
one-half  cups  sugar,  flavor.  This  is  fine  and  makes  two  custards  or  several 
muffin  ring  pies. — Mrs.  M.  S.  Whitted. 

LEMOX  PIE.  Seven  tablespoons  sugar,  one  lemon,  juice  and  grated  rind, 
one  teaspoon  butter,  four  eggs,  one-half  cup  milk,  one  teaspoonful  flour  or  corn 
starch. — Mrs.  M.  S.  Whitted. 

CAEAMEL  PIE.  One  cup  brown  sugar,  one-third  cup  butter,  one  cup  milk, 
two  tablespoonfuls  flour  or  corn  starch,  three  eggs,  saving  whites  of  two  for 
meringue,  vanilla  to  taste.  ^lix  sugar,  flour  and  butter,  add  beaten  eggs,  heat 
milk  pour  mixture  into  hot  milk  and  cook  in  double  boiler  till  thick.  Pour  into 
baked  pastry,  cover  with  meringue  made  of  Avhites  of  two  eggs  with  two  heap- 
ing tablespoonfuls  of  sugar  spread  over  filling  and  bro^m  sloAvly. — Mrs.  D.  F. 
Parker. 

PINEAPPLE  MERINGUE  PIE.  Take  one  can  of  Libby 's  grated  Hawaiian 
pineapple,  four  well-beaten  yolks  of  eggs,  four  tablespoonfuls  of  corn  starch. 
Cook  in  a  double  boiler  until  thick.  Bake  crust,  then  pour  the  filling  in  and 
cover  with  a  meringue  made  of  the  four  whites  beaten  to  a  stiff  froth  with  four 
tablespoonfuls  of  sugar  and  a  pinch  of  cream  of  tartar.  Return  to  oven  and 
brown  lightly.    This  vrill  make  two  pies. — Mrs.  E.  G.  Cheatham. 

CARAMEL  CUSTARD.  Two  tablespoonfuls  corn  starch,  one-half  cup  sweet 
milk,  three  cups  brown  sugar,  four  eggs,  one  teaspoonful  vanilla,  two  tablespoon- 
fuls melted  butter.  Beat  eggs  and  sugar  together,  then  add  the  other  ingredients, 
one-half  pint  of  flour  and  one  heaping  tablespoon  Snowdrift  rubbed  together, 
one  pinch  Royal  Baking  Powder.  Mix  with  sweet  milk  or  water.  Line  two  pie 
plates  with  the  pastry  and  pour  in  the  filling  and  bake  in  moderate  oven. — Mrs. 
E.  G.  Cheatham. 

BUTTER  SCOTCH  PIE.  One  cup  brown  sugar,  one  cup  warm  water,  two 
tablespoonfuls  flour,  yolks  of  two  eggs,  butter  size  of  an  egg.  Mix  and  boil 
until  thick,  flavor  with  vanilla  and  pour  into  baked  crust.  Make  meringue  of 
whipped  whites  of  the  eggs  and  two  tablespoonfuls  powdered  sugar.  Bake  until 
brown. — ^NIrs.  M.  F.  M.vrkham. 

MOLASSES  CUSTARD.  One  tea  cup  molasses,  one  tea  cup  milk,  one-half 
tea  cup  sifted  flour,  one  egg,  one  tablespoonful  lard  or  butter.  Flavor  to  taste 
Avith  vanilla  or  spice.  If  sweet  milk,  a  pinch  of  soda;  if  sour  milk,  a  teaspoon- 
ful of  soda.— Mrs.  M.  F.  Markham. 

LEMOX  CL^STARD.  Grate  rind  of  two  lemons,  juice  of  one  lemon,  three 
eggs,  one  half  cup  butter,  three  cups  sugar,  two  tablespoonfuls  flour  to  thicken. 
Cook  slowly. — Mrs.  C.  B.  Laws. 

CHOCOLATE  CUSTARD.  Dissolve  chocolate,  four  eggs,  two  cups  sugar,  one 
cup  butter.    Cook  slowly. — Mrs.  C.  B.  Laws. 

CHESS  CUSTARD.  Yolks  of  tAvo  eggs,  one  cup  sugar,  butter  size  of  an 
egg.  Beat  well  and  cook  slowly;  when  brown  take  out  of  the  oven  and  add 
meringue,  flavor  with  vanilla. — Mrs.  T.  L.  Bailey. 

CHOCOLATE  CUSTARD.  One  cup  milk,  one  and  one-half  tablespoonfuls 
chocolate,  yolks  of  two  eggs,  three-fourths  cup  white  sugar,  two  tablespoonfuls 
flour.  Let  milk  come  to  a  boil,  in  double  boiler,  add  chocolate,  sugar,  flour  and 
eggs  beaten  together;  stir  until  thick.  Cream  together,  one  and  one-half  table- 
spoonfuls butter  and  three-fourths  cup  brown  sugar  and  one  teaspoonful  vanilla. 
First  spread  the  chocolate  filling  on  a  cooked  pie  crust,  then  spread  the  caramel 
filling  and  lastly  the  whites  of  two  eggs  to  which  two  tablespoonfuls  of  sugar 
have  been  added"^  and  bake  a  light  brown. — Miss  Axxie  Louise  Vaughax. 

LEMOX  CUSTARD.  Four  eggs,  beaten  separately,  one  cup  sugar,  one  table- 
spoonful  butter,  one  tablespoonful  flour  in  one-half  cup  water,  one  lemon.  This 
makes  two  pies. — Mrs.  E.  E.  Bernard. 

49 


USE  DAN  RIVER  SELF-RISING  FLOUR 


^OVR  PINTS  of  jelly  in  each  package  of  KNOX  GELATINE 


AUNT  PEARL'S  SWEET  POTATO  CUSTAED.  Two  cups  mashed  potatoes, 
two  cups  sugar^  one  cup  sweet  milk,  five  eggs,  one  teaspoonful  grated  nutmeg, 
one-half  cup  butter.  To  potatoes  add  one-half  teaspoonful  Royal  Baking 
Powder.  Beat  yolks  of  eggs  and  add  to  potatoes,  then  melted  butter,  sugar  and 
milk.  Beat  until  very  light.  Put  in  two  pie  crusts  and  bake.  Remove  from 
oven  and  while  hot  spread  a  layer  of  peach  or  apple  preserves  on  top.  Then  the 
meringue,  and  brown. — Mrs.  Isham  King. 

LEMON  FILLING.  Three  eggs,  beaten  with  two  cups  sugar,  butter  size 
of  an  egg  (melted).    Juice  and  grated  rind  of  two  lemons — Mrs.  E.  E.  Bernard. 

LEMON  PIE.  Grated  rind  and  juice  of  one  lemon,  one  cup  sugar,  yolks  of 
three  eggs,  one  tablespoonful  butter,  three  tablespoonfuls  milk,  two  teaspoonfuls 
corn  starch.  Beat  all  together  and  bake  in  a  rich  crust.  Use  meringue  made 
of  whites  of  eggs,  one  tablespoonful  flour  may  be  used  instead  of  the  corn  starcli. 
— Mrs.  J.  D.  Hamlin. 

BOILED  CUSTARD.  One  quart  scalded  milk,  four  eggs,  four  tablespoonfuls 
sugar,  one-fourth  teaspoonful  salt,  one  teaspoonful  corn  starch,  one  teaspoonful 
vanilla.  Mix  corn  starch  with  a  little  cold  milk  and  cook  in  scalded  milk  ten 
minutes ;  beat  eggs  and  sugar  together,  pour  the  boiled  milk  over  it  and  cook 
in  double  boiler  until  thick  enough  to  mash  the  spoon.  Remove  at  once  and  set 
in  cold  water,  stir  often  till  almost  cold,  add  flavoring  and  salt  and  strain  into 
the  dish  from  which  it  is  to  be  served.  This  custard  may  be  used  with  cake, 
macaroons,  or  fruit. — Mrs.  Lonnie  Hamlin. 

CARAMEL  CUSTARD.  Cream  together  one  cup  butter,  one  cup  sugar,  add 
five  eggs  (beaten  separately),  one  full  cup  pressed  damson  preserves  (removing 
the  seed.)  Beat  all  together  very  light,  and  season  with  a  tablespoon  vanilla. 
Bake  on  pastry.  This  makes  two  pies  in  ordinary  pie  plates.  Beat  butter,  yolks 
and  sugar  together.  Beat  the  preserves  and  whites;  then  mix  all. — Mrs.  E.  E. 
Bernard. 

MOCK  CHERRY  PIE.  Chop  together  one  cup  cranberries  and  one-half  cup 
raisins,  add  one  cup  sugar  and  two  teaspoonfuls  flour  mixed  together,  then  add 
one-half  cup  cold  w^ater.    Bake  with  two  crusts. — Mrs.  Arthur  Cole. 

LEMON  PIE  WITH  MERINGUE.  Plain  or  flaky  pastry,  two  teaspoon- 
fuls butter,  one  whole  egg  and  three  yolks,  one  cup  sugar,  one  cup  milk,  one 
lemon,  juice  and  grated  rind,  five  teaspoonfuls  flour,  one  half  teaspoonful  salt. 
Cream  the  butter  and  beat  the  eggs  until  light;  beat  part  of  the  sugar  into 
the  butter,  and  part  into  the  eggs,  then  beat  the  t^vo  together;  add  the  lemon 
rind  and  juice ;  stir  part  of  the  milk  into  he  flour  and  salt  and  when  smooth  pour 
it  into  the  lemon  mixture ;  add  the  rest  of  the  milk  all  together  thoroughly ;  turn 
into  a  pastry-lined  plate  and  let  bake  until  firm  in  the  centre ;  let  cool  a  little, 
spread  the  meringue  smoothly  over  the  filling,  sprinkle  with  granulated  sugar  and 
let  bake  in  a  very  moderate  oven  about  twelve  minutes.  It  the  oven  is  too  hot  the 
meringue  ivill  brown  before  it  cooks  through  which  will  cause  it  to  fall  some- 
what. To  prevent  the  filling  running  over  the  edge  of  the  pastry,  build  up  the 
edge  as  follows:  Trim  the  sheet  of  pastry  to  extend  three-fourths  inch  over  the 
edge  of  the  plate  on  all  sides,  roll  over  the  paste  to  meet  the  edge  of  the  plate. 
Flute  this  double  fold  of  paste  wdth  the  thumb  and  fingers,  pressing  each  fluting 
down  on  the  edge  of  the  plate. — Mrs.  Arthur  Cole. 

MERINGUE  FOR  LEMON  PIE.  Whites  of  three  eggs,  one-half  teaspoon- 
ful orange  or  vanilla  extract,  one-third  cup  granulated  sugar.  Beat  the  Avhite^ 
very  light,  then  gradually  beat  in  the  sugar  and  the  extract. — Mrs.  Arthur  Cole. 

CHESS  CUSTARD.  One  tea  cup  sugar,  one  egg,  two  tablespoonfuls  butter, 
one  tablespoonful  sweet  milk,  vanilla  to  taste.  Beat  yolk  of  egg  and  mix  sugar 
a  little  at  a  time  until  all  is  mixed,  then  add  butter,  milk  and  flavoring,  last 
add  w^ll-beaten  white  of  egg.  Bake  in  a  custard  pan  lined  Avith  good  crust. 
— Mrs.  Odie  Umstead. 

50 


USE  DAN  VALLEY  SUPERLATIVE  FLOUR 


KNOX  GELATINE  is  measured  ready  for  use — each  package  is 
divided  into  two  envelopes 


CHOCOLATE  CUSTARD.  One  quart  sweet  milk,  one-half  cup  sugar,  four 
tablespoonfuls  Baker's  cocoa,  three  eggs,  and  one  teaspoonful  vanilla.  Thicken 
with  corn  starch.  Heat  milk  to  boiling  point  in  double  boiler,  mix  cocoa  with  a 
part  of  the  sugar  and  dissolve  with  a  little  hot  milk.  Add  this  mixture  to  hot 
milk.  Beat  eggs  and  sugar  together  for  five  minutes,  add  to  hot  mixture  of 
milk  and  cocoa,  let  cook  for  ten  minutes,  then  thicken  and  remove  from  the  fire. 
Add  vanilla  and  set  away  to  cool.    Serve  with  whipped  cream. 

BOILED  CUSTARD.  One  cup  milk,  one  and  one-half  teaspoonfuls  sugar, 
pinch  of  salt,  yolk  of  one  egg,  one-fourth  teaspoonful  llavoring.  Scald  the  milk 
in  a  double  boiler,  beat  the  egg  and  sugar  together,  pour  the  hot  milk  slowly 
over  the  mixture,  beating  all  the  time.  Return  to  the  double  boiler  and  cook 
till  the  custard  coats  the  spoon.    Add  flavoring. — Miss  Jexxie  Belvix. 

JELLY  CUSTARD.  One  glass  jelly,  one-half  cup  sugar,  one-half  cup  butter, 
five  eggs,  beaten  separately.  Mix  butter  and  sugar,  then  the  yolks ;  next,  glass 
of  jelly,  then  the  whites.  Flavor  with  orange  extract.  This  will  make  two 
custards. — Mrs.  M.  F.  Markham. 

COCOAXUT  PUFFS.  One  and  one-half  cups  grated  cocoanut,  three  whites 
of  egg,  one  cup  sugar,  one-half  teaspoonful  vanilla,  pinch  of  salt,  one  and  one- 
half  tablespoonfuls  corn  starch.  Add  salt  to  egg,  and  beat  stiff,  then  beat  in 
sugar  and  cocoanut.  Cook  in  double  boiler  twenty  minutes.  Remove  from  fire 
and  add  corn  starch  and  vanilla.  Drop  on  buttered  tins  and  bake  in  moderate 
oven. — Mrs.  J.  S.  Smith,  Albemarle,  N.  C, 

COCOANUT  PIE.  One  cup  cocoanut,  three  egg  yolks,  one  quart  of  milk, 
one-half  cup  sugar,  two  and  one-half  tablespoonfuls  corn  starch.  Flavor  to 
taste.  Heat  in  double  boiler,  and  put  in  crust,  sprinkle  another  cup  of  cocoa- 
nut  on  top  and  put  in  oven  to  brown. — Mrs.  Geo.  T.  Watkixs. 

JELLY  CUSTARD.  Five  eggs,  one-half  cup  butter,  one  cup  sugar,  one  f^up 
jelly  (warmed),  makes  three  pies. 


Desserts 


'Tis  the  dessert  that  graces  all  the  feast, 
For  an  ill  end  disparages  the  rest." 

BLACK  WALNUT  BAVARIAN.  Two  tablespoonfuls  Knox  Gelatine  soaked 
in  one  half  cup  cold  Avater,  one  cup  scalded  milk,  yolks  of  two  eggs,  one -half 
cup  sugar,  one-half  cup  sugar  caramalized,  one  teaspoonful  vanilla,  three-fourths 
cup  nut  meats,  whip  from  three  Qups  cream.  Beat  yolks  until  thick  and  lemon 
colored,  add  sugar  gradually  and  scalded  milk.  Cook  in  dou])le  boiler,  stirring 
constantly,  until  custard  coats  the  spoon.  Add  the  soaked  gelatine  and  stir 
until  dissolved.  Add  caramel.  Set  in  ice  water  until  nearly  set.  Add  vanilla, 
nuts  and  whipped  cream.  Cut  and  fold  until  smooth.  Turn  into  a  mould  rinsed 
in  cold  water.    Let  stand  until  set. — Miss  Eunice  Chaplix. 

TO  WHIP  CREAM.  Heavy  cream  should  be  diluted  with  one  fourth  to  one- 
third  its  bulk  in  milk.  Set  bowl  in  v/hich  cream  is  to  be  whipped  in  ice  water. 
Pour  in  cream  and  chill  twenty  minutes.  Beat  Avith  egg  whisk.  Flavor  and 
sweeten  before  whipping  if  desired. — Miss  Euxice  Chaplix. 

CARAMEL.  One  cup  sugar,  one  cup  boiling  water.  Pour  sugar  in  a  sir^W 
frying  pan.  Pat  and  press  down  as  sugar  melts.  When  melted,  add  boiling 
water  gradually,  stirring  all  the  time.  Cook  to  a  syrup.  Caramel  may  be  kept 
in  a  jar  and  used  as  needed. — Miss  Euxice  Chaplix. 

51 


USE  DAN  RIVER  SELF-RISING  FLOUR 


KNOX  GELATINE  solves  the  problem  of  "What  to  have  for  dessert?" 


CKEAM  DELIGHT.  One  and  one  half  pounds  marshmallows,  one  pint  bottle 
Maraschino  cherries,  one  can  grated  pineapple  (pint  size),  thoroughly  drain 
from  juice,  one-fourth  pounds  shelled  almonds  blanched,  one  quart  pure  cream. 
Pull  marshmallows  into  pieces,  cut  cherries  in  half,  mix  with  pineapple,  add 
chopped  nuts  and  mix  with  stiffly  whipped  cream  thoroughly,  sweeten  to  taste. 
The  marshmallows,  cherries  and  pineapple  may  be  mixed  and  allowed  to  stand 
overnight,  and  nuts  added  before  mixing  with  cream  when  needed. — Mrs.  D.  F. 
Paekeb. 

FEUIT  COCKTAIL.  Dissolve  one  package  orange  Jello  in  a  pint  of  boiling 
water;  stand  in  a  cold  place.  Cut  baskets  out  of  oranges,  save  the  pulp  and  juice 
and  add  one-half  pineapple  cubes,  one-half  cup  white  grapes,  cut  in  halves  and 
seeded,  one-half  cup  Maraschino  cherries  and  one-half  cup  sugar.  When  Jello 
begins  to  thicken,  add  the  fruit  and  set  in  a  cold  place.  Serve  in  orange  baskets 
or  sherbert  glasses. — Mrs.  J.  E.  Lyon. 

PELTNE  WHIP.  Chop  fine  two  cups  cooked  prunes.  Beat  the  whites  of  three 
eggs  stiff  and  add  six  level  tablespoonfuls  sugar,  flavor  with  vanilla,  add  prunes 
to  this  and  put  in  baking  dish  and  cook  in  Avarm  oven  till  set  and  brown.  Serve 
with  a  custard  sauce  made  of  the  egg  yolks  and  a  pint  of  sweet  milk,  two  table- 
spoonfuls  sugar  and  a  little  corn  starch  to  thicken. — Mrs.  Burke  Hobgood. 

PEACHES  IN  BLOOM.  Cover  four  good-sized  perfect  peaches  Avith  boiling 
water,  let  stand  a  moment,  drain  and  remove  skins  Avhieh  Avill  noAv  easily  slip 
off.  Carefully  cut  in  half,  remoA^e  the  stones,  and  fill  the  cavity  so  made  Avith 
chopped  nuts.  Pin  the  hah^es  together  Avith  toothpicks.  Sift  three-fourths 
cup  poAvdered  sugar,  cream  Avell  Avith  three  teaspoonfuls  butter,  then  add 
three  teaspoonfuls  cream,  a  few  drops  at  a  time.  Add  enough  pink  vegetable 
color  paste  to  giA^e  a  delicate  color  to  the  frosting.  Eoll  the  stuffed  peaches 
in  this  frosting,  then  in  grated  cocoanut.  Chill  and  serve  in  a  nest  of  AA-hipped 
cream. — Mrs.  Arthur  Coi.e. 

STRAWBEEKY  FLOAT.  Mash  tAvo  quarts  of  berries  and  strain  off  the 
juice,  SAveeten  this  and  add  it  to  a  pint  of  very  rich  cream.  Beat  the  AA^hites 
of  four  eggs  A\'ith  a  tablespoonful  of  poAvdered  sugar,  and  beat  in  the  mashed 
berries.  Put  the  cream  in  the  bottom  of  a  glass  boAvl,  and  heap  the  straAA-berry 
meringue  high  on  it. — Mrs.  M.  S.  Whitted. 

SWEET  POTATO  DELIGH«.  Three  cups  mashed  potatoes,  one  cup  raisins, 
one  cup  nuts,  one  cup  sugar,  one-fourth  cup  butter,  tAvo  eggs,  spices  to  taste, 
one-half  pound  marshmalloAvs.  Mix  all  together,  except  marshmalloAVS.  Put  in 
baking  dish  and  set  in  oA^en  until  it  heats  through.  Take  out  and  put  marsh- 
malloAvs  on  top,  put  back  in  oven  and  let  broAAai. — Mrs.  Isham  King. 

NUT  FEAPPE.  One-half  euA^elope  Knox  Sparkling  Gelatine,  one-fourth  cup 
cold  Avater,  one-half  cup  sugar,  one  cup  cooked  pineapple  and  straAvberries,  one 
cup  cream,  three-fourths  cup  milk,  AA^hite  of  one  egg,  one  cup  chopped  nuts. 
Soak  gelatine  in  the  cold  Avater  fiA^e  minutes  and  dissolve  over  hot  AA^ater.  Add 
dissolved  gelatine  to  cream,  milk  and  sugar  and  stir  in  beaten  Avhite  of  egg. 
When  cold,  add  the  pineapple  and  straAvberries  AA'hich  have  been  chopped  in  small 
pieces,  also  the  chopped  nuts.    Serve  ice  cold  in  sherbet  glasses. 

PINEAPPLE  FLUFF.  One  pint  Avhipped  cream.  Add  one  can  pineapple, 
from  AA'hich  all  juice  has  been  pressed.  SerA^e  this  Avith  Nabiscos  or  any  dainty 
cakes.   This  is  a  simple  dessert  but  A^ery  delightful. — Mrs.  E.  G.  Belvin. 

GLAZED  APPLES.  Select  firm  apples  (not  greenings),  pare  and  core  and 
place  in  pan  or  coA'ered  kettle.  Add  to  six  apples,  three-fourths  cup  sugar,  tAvo 
cups  AA'ater  and  cook  or  simmer  very  sloAvly  till  apples  are  done.  Lift  the 
apples  AA'hen  done  to  a  platter  and  put  in  hot  oven  or  under  gas  flame  to  slightly 
brown  or  glaze.  Pour  oA-er  syrup  and  put  inside  of  each  apple  center  AA^hile  hot 
a  marshmalloAv.  These  are  delicate  and  delicious,  but  of  course  one  must  have 
an  apple  that  does  not  cook  to  pieces. — Mrs.  Annie  Whitmore  Andrews. 

52 


USE  DAN  RIVER  SELF-RISING  FLOUR 


FOUR  PINTS  of  jelly  in  each  package  of  KNOX  GELATINE 


ORANGE  FLOAT.  One  quart  water,  juice  and  pulp  of  two  lemons 
(squeezed),  one  cup  sugar;  when  boiling  add  to  it  four  tablespoonfuls  corn 
starch,  mixed  in  cold  water.  Let  it  boil  fifteen  minutes,  stirring  ajl  the  time. 
When  cool  pour  it  over  four  or  five  sliced  oranges  sprinkled  with  sugar  over 
the  top.  Then  spread  the  beaten  whites  of  three  eggs,  sweeten  and  flavor. 
— A  Friend. 

MAPLE  SPONGE.  One  envelope  Knox  Sparkling  Gelatine,  one  and  one- 
half  cups  cold  water,  two  cups  brown  or  maple  sugar^  one-half  cup  hot  water, 
whites  of  two  eggs,  one  cup  chopped  nut  meats.  Soak  gelatine  in  cold  water 
five  minutes.  Put  sugar  and  hot  water  in  saucepan,  bring  to  boiling  point  and 
let  boil  ten  minutes.  Pour  syrup  gradually  on  soaked  gelatine.  Cool,  and  when 
nearly  set,  add  whites  of  eggs  beaten  until  stiff,  and  nut  meats.  Turn  into 
mold,  first  dipped  in  cold  water,  and  chill.  Serve  Avith  custard  made  of  yolks  of 
eggs,  sugar,  a  feAv  grains  of  salt,  milk,  and  flavoring. 

APPLE  CONSERVE.  Boil  together  one  cupful  water  and  one  pound  of 
granulated  sugar.  Boil  until  it  spins  a  thread.  Ilemove  the  skin  and  core  from 
well-flavored  apples.  When  syrup  is  sufficiently  boiled  drop  apples  in  gently 
and  boil  slowly  until  done.  Remove  apples  to  dish,  boil  syrup  until  it  will 
jelly.  When  partly  cool  pour  syrup  over  apples.  Stand  away  in  cold  place. 
Serve  with  whipped  cream  and  nuts. — Mrs.  E.  G.  Ragland. 


Frozen  Desserts 


"Dream  of  a  shadow!    A  reflection  made 
From  the  false  glories  of  the  gay  reflected  bow, 
Is  a  more  solid  tiling  than  thou." 

PINEAPPLE  SHERBET.  Shred  a  fresh  pineapple  (or  canned  fruit  will 
answer.)  Add  one  pint  sugar,  juice  of  two  oranges,  one-half  pint  water,  juice 
of  one  lemon,  one  tablespoonful  of  gelatine  th^t  has  been  soaked  one  hour  in 
one  cup  cold  water  and  dissolved  in  one  cup  hot  water.  Mix  all  together  and 
freeze. — Mrs.  E.  W.  Morris. 

LEMON  SHERBET.  Boil  one-half  gallon  water,  thicken  with  corn  starch 
dissolved  in  cold  water  as  you  would  boiled  custard,  add  the  juice  of  three  lemons, 
sweeten  to  taste.  One  can  of  peaches,  pineapple  or  six  large  or  eight  small 
oranges.  Let  freezer  be  two-thirds  full.  When  it  begins  freezing,  stir  in  the 
beaten  whites  of  two  eggs.  Have  freezer  about  one  inch  full  from  top,  then 
freeze  hard.  You  may  leave  out  the  peaches  or  the  oranges  and  just  use  lemons 
and  grated  pineapple.    This  makes  one  gallon  sherbet. — Mrs.  Hubert  O  'Briant. 

CARAMEL  ICE  CREAM.  For  custard  use  one-half  gallon  milk,  four  eggs, 
one  cup  sugar.  Now  for  the  caramel:  Put  into  saucej)an  one  and  one-half  cups 
sugar,  cook  slowly  over  gas  stove,  stir  until  it  cooks  a  dark  brown,  do  not  let 
it  burn.  Add  to  it  slowly  two  tablespoonfuls  of  cold  water,  stirring  slowly, 
let  cook  until  thick,  then  add  caramel  to  the  custard  and  freeze. — Mrs.  W.  S. 
Borland. 

PEACH  ICE  CREAM.  To  make  two  quarts  of  cream  when  frozen,  allow 
one  quart  of  cream,  one  pint  peaches,  one  and  one-half  cupfuls  sugar,  one  fourth 
teaspoonful  almond  extract.  Pare  peaches,  which  should  be  very  ripe,  cut  in 
very  small  pieces  to  accurately  measure,  alloAving  a  generous  pint.  Mash  and 
strain  peaches  through  a  sieve,  beat  sugar  into  the  strained  pulp  and  let  the 
latter  stand  for  half  an  hour,  then  add  the  cream,  beating  it  in  gradually, 
flavor  with  the  extract  and  freeze. — Mrs.  J.  R.  Patton. 

53 


KNOX  GELATINE  is  economical— FOUR  PINTS  in  each  package 


Try  the  KNOX  GELATINE  recipes  found  in  this  book 


FROZEN  RASPBERRIES.  Tavo  quarts  raspberries,  juice  of  one  lemon,  one 
pint  water,  one  pint  sugar.  Mash  berries  and  sugar  together  and  let  stand 
for  two  hours ;  then  add  the  water  and  the  lemon  juice  and  freeze.  Blackberries 
may  be  used  the  same  way,  but  the  use  of  three  lemons  is  needed  in  order 
to  free  them  from  seeds  j^ress  through  a  colander. — Mrs.  J.  R.  Patton. 

SULTANA  ROLL.  Line  a  mold  with  pistachio  ice  cream,  sprinkle  with 
sultana  raisins,  fill  center  with  whipped  cream  and  let  stand  two  and  one-half 
hours.    Pack  in  ice  and  salt,  serve  with  claret  sauce. — Mrs.  F.  L.  Walker,  Jr. 

NUT  CARAMEL  SAUCE  FOR  ICE  CREAM.  One  cup  maple  syrup,  one 
cup  sugar,  boil  until  thick,  add  one-half  cup  nut  kernels,  chopped  fine,  or  if 
more  nuts  are  desired,  add  whole  cup. — Mrs.  F.  L.  Walker,  Jr. 

MAPLE  MOUSSE.  Yolks  of  four  eggs,  one-half  pint  maple  syrup,  one  pint 
rich  cream.  Heat  syrup  to  boiling;  have  egg  well-stirred,  then  add  slowly 
the  hot  syrup.  Cool  and  stir  well  into  the  whipped  cream.  Pack  in  freezer, 
leaving  out  the  dasher,  with  equal  pnrts  of  salt  and  ice.  Should  freeze  for 
four  or  more  hours. — Mrs.  M.  F.  Markham. 

FRUIT  SHERBET.  (Economical.)  One-half  envelope  Knox  Sparkling 
Gelatine  (scant  measure),  one  and  one-half  cups  sugar,  one  orange^  three  cups 
rich  milk,  one  lemon.  Grate  the  outside  of  both  orange  and  lemon.  Squeeze  out 
the  juice  and  add  to  this  the  sugar.  Soak  the  gelatine  in  part  of  a  cup  of  milk 
for  five  minutes,  and  dissolve  by  standing  in  pan  of  hot  water.  Stir  into  the 
rest  of  the  milk.  When  it  begins  to  freeze  add  the  fruit  juice  and  sugar,  and 
fruit  of  any  kind  if  desired.    This  makes  a  large  allowance  for  five  persons. 

VANILLA  ICE  CREAM.  Scald  one  pint  milk,  reserving  enough  to  make 
smooth  paste  with  one-fourth  cup  flour.  Mix  with  hot  milk  and  cook  in  double 
boiler  one-half  hour.  Add  beaten  yolks  of  three  eggs,  cook  five  minutes  longer, 
stirring  constantly,  then  add  one  cup  sugar,  one  salt  spoon  salt  and  strain.  When 
cool  mix  with  one  pint  cream  and  flavor  with  vanilla. — Miss  Annie  Louise 
Vaughan. 

CHOCOLATE  SAUCE.  One  square  Baker 's  chocolate,  one  cup  sugar,  one 
tablespoonful  butter,  one-third  cup  boiling  water,  one-half  teaspoonful  vanilla. 
Melt  the  chocolate,  add  butter,  pour  water  over  gradually,  bring  to  boiling  point, 
add  sugar  and  let  boil  eight  minutes.  Cool  slightly,  add  vanilla. — Miss  Annie 
Louise  Vaughan. 

CARAMEL  ICE  CREAM.  Five  eggs,  one  quart  of  milk,  two  cups  sugar,  one 
teaspoonful  vanilla,  one  tablespoonful  corn  starch  or  flour,  one-half  envelope 
Knox  gelatine.  Put  milk  in  double  boiler,  heat  to  boiling  point.  Add  eggs  well- 
beaten,  then  the  dissolved  starch  and  gelatine.  Cook  until  it  thickens  to  coat 
the  spoon.  Cook  the  sugar  in  one-half  cup  of  water  to  a  light  brown,  Pour 
this  into  the  custard  which  has  been  removed  from  the  fire,  stirring  until  thor- 
oughly mixed.  Let  cool,  add  one  quart  whipped  cream,  sweetened  with  con- 
fectioner's sugar.    Freeze.    Nut«  may  be  added  if  preferred. — A  Friend. 


54 

aSE  DAN  VALLEY  SUPERLATIVE  FLOUR 


DESSERTS  can  be  made  in  a  short  time  with  KNOX  GELATINE 


Pudding  and  Sauces 


''The  proof  of  the  pudding  is  in  the  eating." 

OEANGE  STEAM  PUDDING.  One-half  cup  butter,  one  cup  sugar,  one- 
half  orange  juice,  two  and  one-fourth  cups  flour,  three  and  one-half  teaspoons 
Eoyal  Baking  Powder,  four  egg  yolks,  grated  rind  one  orange.  Cream  butter, 
add  sugar  gradually,  add  beaten  egg  yolks,  add  orange  juice  and  sifted  dry 
ingredients  alternately.    Steam  thirty-five  minutes  in  buttered  cups. 

NESEEOLDE  PUDDING.  One  quart  boiled  custard,  one  quart  cream  (whip- 
ped) sweeten  to  taste;  one-fourth  pound  crystallized  cherries,  one-fourth  pound 
blanched  almonds,  one-fourth  pound  pecans,  three  slices  crystallized  pinea^jple. 
Put  cream  and  custard  together  in  freezer  and  start  freezing,  then  add  fruits 
and  nuts,  chopped  fine,  and  continue  to  stir  occasionally  so  fruit  will  not  settle 
to  the  bottom.  When  nearly  frozen  put  in  a  mould  and  pack  in  salt  and  ice. 
— Miss  Annie  Louise  Vaughan. 

SAUCE.  Six  eggs  (yolks).  Equal  parts  of  whipped  cream.  Six  tablespoons 
sugar,  six  tablespoons  whiskey. — Miss  Annie  Louise  Vaughan. 

CAEAMEL  CUSTAED  PUDDING.  Make  a  custard  by  dissolving  a  package 
of  vanilla  jello  in  a  quart  of  sweet  milk,  add  a  pinch  of  salt  and  put  in  top 
of  double  boiler.  When  scalding  hot,  dissolve  heaping  tablespoon  corn  starch, 
add  this  to  that  in  boiler,  let  thicken,  then  add  the  caramel,  also  chopped  nuts 
after  it  thickens  properly.  Serve  with  vrhipped  cream.  For  the  caramel,  four 
tablespoons  granulated  sugar  in  a  granite  saucepan,  a  little  water  to  dissolve. 
Stir  till  a  golden  brown,  being  careful  not  to  burn. — Mrs.  C,  B.  Green. 

BANANA  PUDDING.  Six  bananas,  one  pound  of  Doris  cakes.  Slice 
bananas  over  a  layer  of  cakes.  Over  this  pour  a  pint  of  boiled  custard,  then 
another  layer  of  fruit  and  cakes  and  custard.  Lastly  add  meringue  of  two  eggs, 
flavored  with  vanilla.    Serve  cold. — Mrs.  M.  I.  Upchurch. 

SUET  PUDDING.  Two  eggs,  one  cupful  sweet  milk,  one-half  cup  molasses, 
one-half  cup  finely  chopped  suet,  one  teaspoon  salt,  tAvo  teaspoonfuls  Eoyal  Bak- 
ing Powder,  three  scant  cups  flour,  one  cup  chopped  fruits,  raisins,  citron,  cur- 
rants, almonds,  spices  to  taste.  Steam  two  hours  and  serve  with  soft  sauce. 
— Mrs.  J.  J.  Wolfe. 

SAUCE.  Four  eggs,  one-half  cup  butter,  one  and  one-half  cups  sugar. — Mrs. 
W.  P.  Clements. 

PLUM  PUDDING.  One  and  one-half  cups  sugar,  three  eggs,  one  cup  sour 
milk,  one  teaspoon  of  soda,  two  cups  raisins,  one  cup  butter,  heaping  teaspoon 
cinnamon,  cloves  and  nutmeg,  two  cups  bread  crumbs,  or  enough  to  make  thick 
as  cake  batter. — Mrs.  W.  P.  Clements. 

LEMON  SPONGE  OE  SNOW  PUDDING.  One-half  envolope  Knox  Spark- 
ling Gelatine,  one-fourth  cup  cold  water,  one  cup  boiling  water,  three-fourths  cup 
sugar,  one-quarter  cup  lemon  juice,  whites  of  two  eggs.  Soak  gelatine  in  cold 
water  five  minutes,  dissolve  in  boiling  water,  add  sugar,  lemon  juice  and  grated 
rind  of  one  lemon,  strain,  and  set  a^ide ;  occasionally  stir  mixture,  and  when 
quite  thick,  beat  with  wire  spoon  or  whisk  until  frothy ;  add  whites  of  eggs  beaten 
stiff,  and  continue  beating  until  stiff  enough  to  hold  its  shape.  Pile  by  spoon- 
fuls on  glass  dish.  Chill  and  serve  with  boiled  custard,  a  very  attractive  dish 
may  be  prepared  by  coloring  half  the  mixture  red  with  tablet  found  in  each 
package. 


55 

USE  DAN  RIVER  SELF-RISING  FLOUR 


Use  KNOX  GELATINE— the  two-quart  package 


MAESHMALLOW  PUDDING.  One-half  pound  marshniallows,  one-half 
pound  English  walnuts  (cut  fine),  one-third  cup  maraschino  cherries,  one-half 
pint  whipped  cream.    Whip  all  together,  flavor  with  vanilla. — Mrs.  C.  B.  Green. 

WASHINGTON  PUDDING.  Five  eggs,  beaten  separately,  to  the  yolks  add 
one  cup  sugar,  one  cup  light  bread  crumbs,  soaked  in  one  cup  sweet  milk,  two- 
thirds  cup  of  butter,  one  cup  raisins  (cut  fine),  one-half  cup  wine.  Bake  in  an 
oblong  pan  (about  9x6  inches)  in  a  moderate  oven  until  brown.  Beat  the 
whites  to  a  stiff  froth,  then  add  five  tablespoonfuls  sugar.  When  the  pud- 
ding is  baked  and  nearly  cold,  add  the  whites  on  top  and  brown.  Meringue 
will  not  fall  if  after  beating  tlie  eggs  stiff  and  adding  the  sugar,  one.  teaspoon- 
ful  of  cold  water  for  every  egg  is  added,  and  then  all  well-beaten  again. — Mrs. 
E.  E.  Bernard. 

CHOCOLATE  PLUM  PUDDING.  One  envelope  Knox  Sparkling  Gelatine, 
three-fourths  cup  cold  water,  one  cup  sugar,  one-half  teaspoonful  vanilla,  one 
cup  seeded  raisins,  one-half  cup  dates  or  figs,  if  desired,  one-fourth  cup  sliced 
citron  or  nuts,  as  preferred,  one-half  cup  currants,  one  and  one-half  squares 
chocolate,  one  pint  milk,  pinch  salt.  Soak  gelatine  in  cold  water  five  minutes. 
Put  milk  in  double  boiler,  add  melted  chocolate,  and  when  scalding  point  is 
reached  add  sugar,  salt  and  soaked  gelatine.  Eemove  from  fire  and  when  mix- 
ture begins  to  thicken  add  vanilla,  fruit  and  nut  meats.  Turn  into  mold,  first 
dipped  in  cold  water,  and  chill.  Eemove  to  serving  dish  and  garnish  with  holly. 
Serve  with  whipped  cream,  sweetened,  and  flavored  with  vanilla. 

COEN  PUDDING.  One  dozen  large  ears  of  corn,  four  eggs,  one  teaspoon- 
ful pepper,  one  pint  sweet  milk,  two  tablespoons  butter,  one  tablespoon  sugar. 
Grate  the  corn  from  the  cob;  beat  whites  and  yolks  of  eggs  separately;  add 
the  yolks  to  the  corn.  Then  the  melted  butter,  then  the  milk,  sugar  and 
salt.  Lastly  the  beaten  whites,  stirring  constantly.  Bake  very  slowly  for  an 
hour  and  a  half,  covering  the  dish  until  the  last  twenty  minutes,  w^hen  cover 
should  be  removed  and  the  pudding  browned  nicely.  Serve  with  roast  meat 
of  any  kind. — Mrs.  J.  E.  Patton. 

OEANGE  PUDDING.  This  pudding  is  served  cold  without  sauce  and  the 
following  ingredients  are  sufficient  for  six  persons :  Three  oranges,  one-half 
lemon  (juice)  one  pint  milk,  one  tablespoonful  corn  starch,  one  cup  of  sugar, 
two  eggs,  one-fourth  teaspoonful  salt.  Peel  the  oranges,  removing  all  the  tough 
and  white  skin,  and  cut  them  half  the  size  of  a  nutmeg,  taking  out  the  tough 
portion  in  the  center.  Place  the  oranges  in  a  pudding  dish,  squeeze  the  lemon 
juice  over  them,  add  half  a  cupful  of  sugar.  Stir  up  and  let  stand  while  the 
rest  of  pudding  is  prepared.  Beat  the  yolks  of  the  eggs,  stir  in  two  teaspoonfuls 
milk,  add  the  same  quantity  of  milk  to  the  corn  starch,  and  beat  these  two  mix- 
tures together.  Heat  the  rest  of  the  milk  in  a  milk  boiler,  and  when  boiling  add 
the  eggs,  corn  starch,  etc.  Cook  five  minutes,  add  the  salt  and  the  rest  of  the 
sugar,  remove  from  the  fire,  and  lay  the  mixture,  a  spoonful  at  a  time  on  top 
of  the  oranges  in  the  dish.  Beat  the  whites  of  the  eggs  stiff,  add  to  them  a 
tablespoonful  of  sugar,  spread  the  icing  on  top  on  the  pudding,  and  brown  it 
delicately  in  the  oven.  This  pudding  should  not  be  made  over  night  as  the 
oranges  would  in  that  time  give  off  too  much  of  their  juice. — Mrs.  J.  E.  Patton. 

CHOCOLATE  BEEAD  PUDDING.  One  cupful  bread  crumbs,  two  cupfuls 
scalded  milk,  one  ounce  chocolate  (1-8  Ir-ge  cake)  one  fourth  cupful  boiling 
water,  one-third  cupful  sugar,  one  egg,  one-fourth  teaspoonful  salt,  one-half 
teaspoonful  vanilla.  Add  the  bread  crumbs  to  the  scalded  milk  and  allow  them 
to  soak  until  soft.  Cut  the  chocolate  in  pieces,  add  the  boiling  water  to  it,  and 
cook  gently  until  a  smooth  paste  is  formed.  Add  this  to  the  bread  mixture. 
Beat  the  eggs,  add  the  sugar  and  salt ;  add  the  first  mixture  to  the  egg  mixture, 
then  add  the  vanilla,  and  turn  into  a  buttered  pudding  dish.  Bake  as  a  plain 
pudding,  and  serve  with  whipped  cream,  lemon  sauce,  or  hard  sauce. — Mrs.  E.  A. 
Knight. 

56 


USE  DAN  VALLEY  SUPERLATIVE  FLOUR 


KNOX  GELATINE  makes  a  transparent,  tender,  quivering  jelly 


PLUM  PUDDIXG.  One-half  pound  raisins,  one-half  pound  currants,  one  half 
pound  suet  (beef)  one-half  cup  sugar,  pinch  of  salt,  one  f ourtli  pound  mixed  peel, 
one  wine-glass  brandy,  three  eggs,  two  teaspoonfuls  mixed  spices.  Flour  enough 
to  make  stiff.  Tie  in  a  cloth,  put  into  boiling  water,  and  boil  for  three  hours. 
— Miss  Maggie  Albright. 

COEX  PL^DDIXG,  One  pint  corn,  two  eggs,  one-half  pint  sweet  milk,  one 
tablespoon  sugar,  one  tablespoon  flour,  one-half  teaspoon  vanilla,  butter  the  size 
of  an  egg,  salt  and  pepper  to  taste.  Cut  the  corn  very  fine.  Beat  the  eggs  thor- 
oughly and  add  to  corn,  then  add  other  ingredients  one  at  a  time  and  stir  until 
all  are  well  mixed.  Put  in  a  pan  and  bake  in  oven  twenty  minutes. — Mrs.  W.  F. 
Lyox. 

CHOCOLATE  PUDDIXG.  One  cup  bread  crumbs,  two  cups  sweet  milk, 
scalded,  one  square  chocolate,  one-third  cup  sugar,  one  egg,  one-eighth  teaspoon 
salt,  one-half  teaspoonful  vanilla. — Mrs.  P.  O.  Xoell. 

BAXAXA  PL'DDIXG.  Yolks  of  two  eggs,  one  cup  sweet  milk,  one-half  cup 
sugar,  one  teaspoonful  corn  starch,  one  tablespoonful  butter.  Cook  until  thick, 
cool,  add  vanilla  to  taste.  Place  a  layer  of  cakes  in  bottom  of  baking  dish,  then 
layer  of  filling,  then  layer  of  bananas  and  so  on  until  filling  is  used.  Beat 
whites  until  stiff,  add  sugar,  cover  top  and  brown  in  a  hot  oven. — Mrs.  W.  J. 
Monk. 

MOLASSES  PL'DDIXG.  One  cup  black  molasses,  one  cup  granulated  sugar, 
three  cups  flour,  two  eggs,  one  teaspoon  soda  (level),  one-half  cup  butter,  one- 
half  cup  butter  milk.  Dissolve  soda  in  the  milk,  flavor  with  spice  to  taste. 
Bake  in  moderate  oven.    Serve  with  sauce — Mrs.  0.  T.  -Carver. 

LEMOX  SXOW  PI^DDIX'G.  One  tablespoon  Knox  gelatine,  one-fourth  cup 
cold  water,  two  cups  boiling  water,  one  cup  sugar,  one-half  cup  lemon  juice, 
whites  of  two  eggs.  Soak  the  gelatine  in  cold  water.  Dissolve  the  sugar  and 
soaked  gelatine  in  the  hot  water.  Eemove  from  the  fire  and  add  the  lemon  juice. 
Chill  until  set.  Beat  with  an  egg  whip  until  fluffy.  Fold  in  the  beaten  egg 
whites,  turn  into  moulds  which  have  been  washed  in  cold  water.  Let  set,  then 
mould  and  serve  with  boiled  custard. — Mrs.  J.  B.  Eiggs. 

BOILED  CL'STAED.  One  pint  milk,  2  egg  yolks,  four  tablespoons  sugar, 
few  grains  salt,  one-half  teaspoon  lemon  or  vanilla.  Scald  the  milk  and  pour 
it  over  the  yolks  of  eggs  previously  beaten  with  the  sugar.  Turn  into  the 
inner  vessel  of  a  double  boiler  and  cook  over  hot  water  till  the  custard  coats 
the  back  of  a  spoon,  add  the  flavoring  when  cool. — Mrs.  J.  B.  Eiggs. 

EXGLISH  PLUM  PUDDIX'G.  Three-fourths  pound  stoned  raisins,  one-half 
pound  currants,  one-fourth  pound  citron,  one-half  pound  sugar,  one-half  pound 
l3eef  suet,  finely  chopped,  one  teaspoonful  ground  ginger,  one  and  or.e-half  tea- 
spoonful ground  cinnamon,  one-half  teaspoonful  ground  cloves,  one-half  teaspoon- 
ful grated  nutmeg,  one  wine-glass  wine  or  brandy.  Four  eggs  well-beaten  and 
a  pinch  of  salt.  Two  grated  loaves  of  stale  bread.  Mix  all  the  ingredients  thor- 
oughly, flour  the  fruit,  put  in  a  thick  canvas  bag,  tie  securely,  allowing  a  little 
space  for  expansion.  Place  in  boiling  water  in  fireless  cooker  for  four  hours. 
If  you  use  kettle,  boil  for  four  or  five  hours  with  a  plate  at  bottom  to  keep 
from  scorching.  This  may  be  used  hot  with  vanilla  or  wine  sauce  or  hung  up 
and  dried  and  used  at  future  date  by  re-heating  bag  and  boiling  contents  half 
hour. — ]\Irs.  B.  L.  Tyree. 

FLOEEX^TIXE  PUDDIXG.  Let  one  quart  of  milk  come  to  a  boil.  Beat  the 
yolks  of  three  eggs  very  light,  add  one  cup  sugar  and  two  teaspoonfuls  corn 
starch,  dissolved  in  one-half  cup  cold  water.  Into  this  mixture  pour  the  boiling 
milk,  and  let  it  thicken  on  the  fire.  Then  pour  into  a  baking  pan,  season  to 
taste  and  bake  until  it  sets.  Cover  with  meringue  made  of  the  whites  of  three 
eggs  and  set  in  the  stove  until  a  light  brown.    Serve  very  cold. — ^Irs.  Faxxie 

GOOCH. 

57 


USE  DAN  RIVER  SELF-RISING  FLOUR 


KNOX  GELATINE  is  the  one  dessert  for  all  appetites 


SOFT  GINGER  BREAD.  One-half  cup  butter,  one-i.aif  cup  boiling  water, 
one  cup  dark  molasses,  one-fourth  teaspoonful  salt,  one  heaping  teaspoonful 
ginger,  one  teaspoonful  cinnamon,  one-fourth  teaspoonful  allspice,  one-fourth  tea- 
spoonful cloves,  one  teaspoonful  soda,  one  and  one-half  scant  cups  flour.  Melt 
the  butter  in  the  boiling  \vater,  then  stir  in  the  molasses,  next  add  the  salt  and 
spices.  Dissolve  the  soda  in  a  little  boiling  water  and  stir  thoroughly  in  the 
mixture.  Then  stir  in  the  flour,  beating  all  together.  Place  in  buttered  pan 
and  bake  in  moderate  oven. — Mrs.  M.  F.  Makkham. 

CHOCOLATE  PUDDING.  Two  ounces  chocolate,  one  pint  sweet  milk,  one- 
half  pint  water,  one  cup  sugar,  butter  size  of  a  walnut,  four  tablespoonfuls 
corn  starch,  salt.  Melt  the  chocolate,  add  milk,  and  water,  then  sugar  and 
butter.  When  it  has  boiled  real  good,  thicken  Avith  corn  starch  mixed  with 
water,  flavor  with  van/^a  and  let  cool.  Serve  with  whipped  cream  or  marsh- 
mallow  sauce. — Mrs.  Buuke  Hobgood, 

CHOCOLATE  PUDDING.  One  quart  sweet  milk,  one-third  cup  corn  starch, 
two  cups  sugar,  three  eggs,  two  ounces  chocolate,  one-fourth  teaspoonful  salt. 
Mix  cornstarch  with  one  half  cup  milk.  Scald  remaining  milk;  beat  eggs  until 
light,  add  sugar  to  eggs,  then  the  melted  chocolate.  (Two  tablespoonfuls  of 
cocoa  will  do  as  well  as  the  chocolate.)  Add  all  to  hot  milk  and  cook  until 
thick.  Let  cool,  then  add  one  cup  of  mashed  prunes  and  one  cup  of  nuts,  flavor 
with  vanilla  and  serve  with  whipped  cream. — Mrs.  Isham  King. 

ORANGE  PUDDING.  Peel  and  slice  five  oranges  and  sprinkle  with  sugar. 
Heat  one  pint  milk,  one  tablespoon  corn  starch,  wet  with  cold  milk,  a  little  salt 
and  the  yolks  of  four  eggs.  Cook  in  double  boiler  and  let  cool,  cover  the  oranges 
Avith  the  custard.  Beat  the  whites  of  eggs  with  one-half  cup  sugar  and  spread 
on  top. 


Sauces 


''The  daintiest  last  to  make  the  end  most  sweet." 

ORANGE  SAUCE.  Three  egg  whites,  one  cup  powdered  sugar,  juice  and 
rind  of  two  oranges,  juice  of  one  lemon.  Beat  the  whites  until  stiff,  add  sugar 
gradually,  and  continute  beating;  add  rind  and  fruit  juices  just  before  serving. 

TOMATO  SAUCE.  Two  cups  canned  tomatoes,  one  cup  water,  tAvo  cloves, 
tAvo  allspice,  tAvo  pepper  corns,  one  tablespoon  mixed  herbs,  two  sprays  parsley, 
tAvo  tablespoons  chopped  onion,  tAvo  tablespoons  butter,  four  tablespoons  flour, 
one-half  teaspoon  salt,  one-eighth  teaspoon  pepper.  Cook  the  tomatoes  Avith  all 
the  seasonings,  Avater  and  a  pinch  of  soda,  until  the  tomatoes  are  tender.  Then 
strain.  Melt  the  butter,  add  flour  and  tomato  juice.  Cook  until  thick.— Mrs. 
J.  B.  RiGGS. 

WINE  SAUCE.  One  half  pint  Avater,  one  cup  sugar,  one-half  teaspoonful 
corn  starch,  one  teaspoonful  extract  bitter  almonds,  one  teaspoonful  vanilla,  one- 
half  cup  Avhite  Avine.  Stir  tAvo  tablespoonfuls  sugar  on  the  fire  in  thick  sauce- 
pan Avith  one  tablespoonful  Avater  until  very  dark  (but  not  burned.)  Add 
boiling  Avater,  rest  of  sugar,  the  corn  starch  dissolA'ed.  Boil  ten  minutes.  When 
about  to  serve,  strain,  add  the  extracts  and  Avine. — Miss  Maggie  Albright. 

HARD  SAUCE.  One  cup  sugar,  one-half  cup  butter;  beat  both  together  to 
Avhite  cream,  add  Avhites  of  two  eggs,  beat  again.  One  tablespoon  brandy,  one 
teaspoonful  extract  nutmeg.    Put  on  ice  until  needed. — Miss  Maggie  Albright. 

58 


USE  DAN  VALLEY  SUPERLATIVE  FLOUR 


Give  the  growing  children  KNOX  GELATINE 


LEMOX  SAUCE.  rated  rind  and  jaice  of  one  lemon.  Two  tablespoon- 
fuls  flour,  one  egg,  one  tablcspoonful  butter,  one-half  cup  sugar.  Stir  all  to- 
gether, then  add  one-half  cup  boiling  water.  Grated  nutmeg  to  taste. — Miss 
Maggie  Albright. 

HOT  CHOCOLATE  SAUCE.  Melt  two  squares  chocolate,  add  one  cup 
sugar,  one-half  cup  boiling  water,  two  tablespoonfuls  butter,  one -fourth  teaspoon- 
ful  salt.  Stir  until  Avell  blended.  Cook  until  smooth  and  glossy  (about  twelve 
minutes.)  Remove  from  the  fire,  add  one  teaspoonful  vanilla.  Serve  with  cake, 
puddings,  and  vanilla  ice  cream. — Mrs.  J.  L.  Whitmore. 

DANDY  PUDDING.     One  cup  molasses,  one-half  cup   boiling  water  into 

which  one  teaspoonful  soda  is  dissolved,  one-half  teaspoonful  salt,  one  egg.  Sift 

one  teaspoonful  Eoyal  Baking  Powder  to  each  cup  flour.  Steam  one  and  one- 
half  hours.    If  fruit  is  used  in  this  pudding,  one-half  eu^..  more  flour. 

SAUCE.  One-fourth  pound  butter,  one  cup  sugar,  one  pint  boiling  water, 
one  teaspoonful  vanilla,  one  teaspoonful  lemon,  one  tablcspoonful  lemon  juice, 
one  tablespoonful  vinegar,  five  tablespoonfuls  flour,  two  eggs  and  one  teaspoonful 
salt. — Mrs.  Frank  Stone. 

CHOCOLATE  PUDDING.  One  pint  sweet  milk,  one  egg,  one  tablespoonful 
corn  starch,  three  tablespoonfuls  chocolate,  one  and  one-half  cup  sugar.  Beat 
egg  and  sugar  together  real  good,  then  add  milk  and  chocolate  melted,  then  the 
corn  starch. — Mrs.  J.  B.  Williams. 

BANANA  PL'DDING.  One  pint  milk,  four  eggs,  one  tablespoonful  corn 
starch,  one  and  one-half  cups  sugar.  Beat  the  yolks  of  eggs  and  sugar  together, 
add  milk  and  corn  starch  and  cook  in  a  double  boiler  until  thick  and  let  cool, 
adding  teaspoonful  vanilla.  Use  one-half  dozen  bananas,  one-half  pound  Doris 
cakes.  Put  a  layer  cakes  and  layer  bananas  in  a  large  platter  and  pour  custard 
over,  repeating  until  the  platter  is  filled.  Then  put  meringue  over  the  top, 
and  put  in  oven  to  brown. — Mrs.  J.  B.  Williams. 

LEMON  CREAM  PUDDING.  Juice  and  rind  of  one  large  or  two  small 
lemons,  three  eggs,  beaten  separately,  one  cup  sugar,  one  tablespoonful  flour, 
one  tablespoonful  melted  butter,  one  cup  of  milk.  Beat  whites  of  eggs  and  put 
in  last.  Bake  about  thirty  minutes  in  pan  of  hot  water. — Mrs.  Geo.  T,  Wat- 
Kixs,  Jr. 

PEACH  PUDDING.  One  pint  of  peaches,  three  eggs,  beat  yolks  and  whites 
separately,  three  tablespoonfuls  sugar.  Add  the  following  to  yolks  and  mix 
well:  five  tablespoonfuls  cream,  three  tablespoonfuls  sugar,  three  tablespoonfuls 
flour.  Add  whites  of  eggs,  then  peaches ;  mix  lightly  and  bake  slowlv. — Mrs. 
Geo.  T.  Watkixs,  Jr. 


Sandwiches 


"Tilings  which  in  hungry  mortals'  eyes  find  favor.'' 

INDIA  RELISH  SANDWICHES.  Equal  quantities  of  India  relish  and  pinien- 
toes.  After  juice  has  been  pressed  out,  chop  pimentoes  fine,  butter  thin  slices  of 
bread  with  mayonnaise,  spread  with  the  mixture. — ]Mrs.  W.  S.  Borland. 

PEPPER  SANDWICHES.  Cut  a  loaf  of  bread  into  very  thin  slices.  Spread 
vrith  prepared  mustard  or  any  salad  dressing  preferred.  Place  slice  of  sweet 
pepper  that  has  been  boiled  tender  in  salted  water,  between  the  bread.  Place 
sandwiches  on  basket  or  plate  and  garnish  with  parsley. 

59 


USE  DAN  RIVER  SELF-RISING  FLOUR 


KNOX  GELATINE  is  clear  and  sparkling 


CELERY  SANDWICHES.  Chop  crisp  celery  fine,  add  tiny  bit  of  pepper  and 
vinegar,  spread  on  slices  of  buttered  bread. — Mrs.  W.  S.  Borland. 

PICKLE  AND  NUT  SANDWICH.  Cut  bread  in  the  usual  way.  Spread 
with  mayonnaise,  then  a  layer  of  thinly  sliced  sweet  cucumber  pickle,  small  ones 
preferred,  then  a  layer  of  English  walnuts  previously  run  through  meat  chopper. 
— Mrs.  M.  S.  Whitted. 

CLUB  SANDWICH.  One-half  hen  breast  (white  meat)  two  slices  break- 
fast bacon,  three  slices  bread,  cut  lengthwise  loaf,  four  lettuce  leaves,  six  slices 
tomatoes,  raw,  one -third  cup  mayonnaise  dressing,  two  tea  spoonfuls  mince  meat, 
one  cucumber  pickle.  Slice  bread  and  toast  slightly,  but  not  brown.  Build  as 
follows :  One  slice  bread  on  which  spread  bacon  fried  crisp  and  cooled,  two 
lettuce  leaves,  three  slices  tomato,  one-sixth  cup  mayonnaise,  another  slice  bread, 
slice  and  spread  chicken,  mayonnaise  one  sixth  cup,  three  slices  tomatoes,  two 
lettuce  leaves,  two  teaspoonf uls  mince  meat.  Cover  with  third  slice  bread  and 
cut  the  entire  sandwich  through  so  the  two  parts  will  be  three  cornered.  Split 
the  cucumber  in  half  and  place  tooth-picks  in  ends  of  each  piece  and  pin  the 
two-part  sandwich  together,  using  pickle  for  bars  and  tooth  picks  for  pins. — Mrs. 
Jasper  Hamlin. 

RAISIN  SANDWICHES.  Make  a  paste  of  large  seeded  raisin  and  candied 
lemon  peel,  chopped  fine  and  moistened  wdth  lemon  juice.  Spread  on  lightly 
buttered  thin  slices  of  bread.    Serve  Avith  cup  of  good  tea. — Mrs.  A.  J.  Bull- 

INGTON. 

EGG  AND  OLIVE  SANDWICH.  Four  hard-boiled  eggs,  two  tablespoonfuls 
chopped  olives,  salt  and  pepper,  olive  oil  and  vinegar.  Chop  the  egg  and  mix 
with  the  olives;  season  and  moisten  with  olive  oil  and  vinegar.  Spread  between 
thin  slices  of  buttered  bread. — Mrs.  J.  S.  Smith,  Albermarle,  N.  C. 

SARDINE  SANDWICHES.  Skin  and  bone  the  sardines  and  mash  to  a 
paste.  Season  with  lemon  juice,  cayenne  pepper  and  salt,  and  spread  between 
thin  slices  of  bread. — Mrs.  M.  F.  Markham. 

CHEESE  FILLING  FOR  SANDWICHES.  Tavo  tablespoonfuls  butter,  two 
tablespoonfuls  flour,  one  cup  milk,  one-fourth  teaspoonful  mustard,  salt  and 
pepper,  one  cup  grated  cheese.  Melt  the  butter;  stir  in  the  flour;  then  add  the 
milk  gradually  and  let  it  cook  until  a  thick  paste  is  formed.  Take  from  the 
fire;  add  the  seasoning;  work  in  the  grated  cheese,  and  set  aw^ay  until  needed. 
Except  in  very  warm  weather,  this  Avill  keep  a  week. — A  Friend. 


Pickles  and  Sauces 


"Peter  Piper  inclied  a  peck  of  picMed  pepper." 

GREEN  TOMATO  SWEET  PICKLE.  One  and  one-half  gallons  sliced  toma- 
toes, three  quarts  vinegar,  two  quarts  cut  cabbage,  three  pounds  of  sugar,  four 
tablespoonfuls  white  mustard  seed,  four  tablespoonfuls  salt^  two  tablespoonfuls 
black  pepper,  two  tablespoonfuls  celery  seed,  six  large  onions.  White  ginger, 
cloves  and  mace  to  suit  your  taste.    Boil  until  done. — Mrs.  M,  F.  Markham. 

CUCUMBER  RELISH.  Wash,  quarter,  remove  seeds,  grate  or  grind,  put 
pulp  in  a  cloth  and  squeeze  out  water.  One  cup  pulp,  one-half  cup  vinegar,  one- 
half  cup  sugar,  one  tablespoonful  ground  nutmeg,  one  tablespoonful  mustard, 
one  tablespoonful  celery  seed,  one  teaspoonful  salt.  Mix,  seal  in  jars  cold. 
— Mrs.  E.  E.  Thompson. 

60 


USE  DAN  VALLEY  SUPERLATIVE  FLOUR 


A  KNOX  GELATINE  Dessert  or  Salad  is  attractive  and  appetizing 


MIXED  PICKLES.  Four  large  heads  of  white  cabbage,  one  peck  green 
tomatoes,  two  dozen  cucumbers,  one  dozen  moderate  sized  onions,  one  dozen  green 
peppers,  two  bunches  celery,  chopped  very  fine  (or  ground  in  a  food  chopper). 
Mix  well,  put  a  layer  of  salt  and  one  of  the  mixture.  Let  it  set  over  night,  then, 
press  as  dry  as  possible  and  cover  with  cold  vinegar;  set  for  twenty-four  hours, 
press  as  before ;  take  one  gallon  vinegar,  three  pounds  sugar,  half  ounce  mace, 
three  pounds  of  raisins,  four  ounces  celery  seed,  put  all  together  with  the  mix- 
ture and  place  in  a  kettle  till  it  comes  to  a  boil  and  remove  at  once,  put  in  glass 
fruit  jars  and  seal  wliile  hot  and  this  will  keep  for  years.  This  will  make 
about  two  gallons  of  very  fine  pickle. — Miss  Maggie  Albright. 

TOMATO  CONSERVE.  Seven  pounds  tomatoes,  five  pounds  white  sugar, 
six  oranges,  six  lemons.  Peel  lemons  and  oranges  and  cook  skins  until  tender. 
Add  to  tomatoes  and  cook  till  done.  Canned  tomatoes  will  answer  as  well  as 
fresh,  if  of  good  quality. — A  Friend. 

MEXICAN  SLAW.  One  gallon  chopped  cabbage,  one  gallon  green  toma- 
toes (chopped),  two  quarts  onions,  one  cup  hot  green  pepper,  three  pounds  bro-svn 
sugar,  three  quarts  vinegar.  The  cabbage  stand  over  night  in  brine  of  one 
gallon  water  to  one  cup  salt.  The  vinegar,  brown  sugar  and  three  packages  of 
white  mustard  seed  come  to  a  boil  then  pour  in  cabbage,  etc.  After  the  brine 
has  been  drained  and  let  this  come  to  a  boil  and  can  hot.  This  makes  seven 
quarts,  and  takes  two  nice  cabbages. — Miss  Birda  Lea. 

PEPPER  RELISH.  Twelve  green  peppers,  twelve  red  peppers,  ten  onions, 
three  green  hot  peppers,  two  red  peppers;  run  through  food  chopper  and  add 
one  pint  vinegar,  one  cup  sugar  and  one  teaspoonful  salt. — Mrs.  A.  D.  Wilcox. 

CUCUMBER  CATSUP.  Pulp  grated  cucumber,  one  pint,  two  tablespoonfuls 
sugar,  two  tablespoonfuls  white  mustard  seed,  two  tablespoonfuls  ground  mus- 
tard, one  large  or  two  small  grated  onions,  one-half  pint  vinegar.  Cover  with 
a  little  vinegar. — Mrs.  J.  R.  Pattox. 

GREEN  TOMATO  PICKLE.  One  peck  green  tomatoes,  one  dozen  green 
peppers,  one-half  dozen  sliced  onions,  one  small  box  mustard,  one  ounce  mustard 
seed,  one  ounce  cloves,  one  ounce  allspice,  one  ounce  black  pepper,  one  ounce 
ginger,  one  ounce  tumeric,  one  pound  brown  sugar.  Cut  tomatoes  in  thin  slices 
and  sprinkle  wdth  salt ;  let  stand  three  or  four  hours,  then  press  the  briny  water 
from  them ;  put  the  tomatoes  into  a  kettle  with  alternate  layers  of  onions,  mus- 
tard and  spices.  Cover  the  whole  wi^-h  strong  vinegar  and  boil  soft. — Mrs.  J.  R. 
Pattok. 

CHOW-CHOW  PICKLE.  Tavo  quarts  green  tomatoes,  two  quarts  cabbage, 
one  quart  onion,  three  or  four  green  peppers,  one  tablespoonful  celery  seed,  two 
tablespoonfuls  vinegar,  tAvo  tablespoonfuls  tumeric,  one  tablespoonful  whole 
cloves,  one  tablespoonful  paprika.  (All  of  the  above  chopped  fine.)  Tavo  quarts 
vinegar,  tAvo  tablespoonfuls  salt,  tAvo  pounds  broAvn  sugar,  tAvo  tablespoonfuls 
mustard.    Boil  one  hour. — Mrs.  M.  F.  Markham. 

GINGERED  PEARS.  Use  pears  not  quite  ripe.  Peel,  core  and  cut  into 
thin  slices.  To  eight  pounds  of  pears  alloAv  eight  pounds  of  sugar,  one  cup 
AA'ater,  juice  of  four  lemons.  Cut  the  lemon  rinds  into  thin  strips  and  add  them 
also.  Add  one-eighth  pound  of  ginger  root,  cut  into  pieces;  simmer  until 
thick  as  marmalade.   Pack  like  jam. — Mrs.  G.  E.  Lougee,  Jr. 

GREEN  TOMATO  MINCEMEAT.  One  and  one-half  peck  green  tomatoes,  one 
peck  apples,  three  oranges,  three  lemons,  one  cup  beef  suet,  one-half  pound 
citron,  one  box  raisins,  six  pounds  sugar,  one  box  currants,  one  teaspoonful 
ground  spices,  one  teaspoonful  salt,  one  and  one-half  or  two  cups  vinegar,  grape 
juice  or  cider.  Slice  tomatoes  thin,  pour  boiling  water  over  them  and  let  them 
stand  tAventy-four  hours.  Do  this  three  times.  Cut  citron  into  small  thin  pieces, 
dice  apples,  oranges  and  lemons,  (use  tlie  peel  of  oranges  and  lemons),  cut  the 
suet  fine,  mix  all  ingredients  and  boil  gently  for  one  hour.  Seal  in  pint  jars. 
— Mrs.  Arthur  Cole. 

61 


USE  DAN  RIVER  SELF-RISING  FLOUR 


Ask  your  grocer  for  KNOX  GELATINE — take  no  other 


CHOW-CHOW  PICKLE.  Two  quarts  green  tomatoes,  two,  quarts  cabbage, 
one  quart  onions,  one-half  dozen  sweet  green  peppers,  two  quarts  vinegar,  two 
quarts  brown  sugar,  one-half  cup  salt,  two  tablespoonfuls  mustard,  two  table- 
spoonfuls  ginger,  two  tablespoonfuls  tumeric,  one  tablespoonful  celery  seed,  one 
tablespoonful  whole  cloves,  one  tablespoonful  paprika.  Boil  all  together  one 
hour.    Put  in  glass  jars. — Mrs.  E.  G.  Cheatham. 

UNIVEESAL  PICKLES.  Use  five-gallon  stone  jar  which  has  been  sterilized, 
one  gallon  apple  vinegar,  three-fourths  pound  salt,  three-fourths  pound  Coleman's 
Mustard,  four  pounds  brown  sugar,  two  tablespoonfuls  ground  cloves,  two  table- 
spoonfuls ground  mace,  two  tablespoonfuls  ground  nutmeg,  two  tablespoonfuls 
ground  ginger,  two  tablespoonfuls  white  mustard  seed  (whole),  two  tablespoon- 
fuls ground  horse  radish,  one  quart  small  onions.  Put  dry  ingredients  in  a 
boAvl  and  slowly  add  part  of  the  vinegar,  stirring  with  a  wooden  spoon  till  the 
mixture  is  smooth.  Then  add  the  remaining  vinegar  and  pour  into  jar,  wash 
and  dry  the  onions,  cucumbers,  very  young  corn,  snaps,  peaches,  and  any  veg- 
etables you  desire  to  put  in  the  pickle  except  beets  and  cabbage.  The  vegetables 
may  be  added  from  time  to  time  as  they  ripen  in  the  garden.  Stir  this  mixture 
at  least  four  times  a  week  so  the  flavoring  may  blend  evenly.  Be  sure  to  wash 
and  wipe  dry  the  cucumbers  and  other  vegetables  added.  Place  a  clean  cloth 
over  the  vegetables  and  weigh  down  so  that  the  spiced  vinegar  will  completely 
cover  the  cucumbers,  etc.  Place  a  clean  cloth  or  paper  over  the  top  of  the  jar 
so  as  to  make  as  near  air-tight  as  possible. — Mrs.  J.  M.  Whitted. 

TOMATO  SAUCE.  Two  cups  canned  tomatoes,  one  cup  water,  two  cloves, 
two  allspice  berries,  two  peppercorns,  one  teaspoonful  herbs,  poultry  seasoning, 
two  sprays  parsley,  two  tablespoonfuls  chopped  onion,  two  tablespoonfuls  but- 
ter, four  tablespoonfuls  flour,  one-half  teaspoonful  salt,  one-eighth  teaspoonful 
pepper.  Put  tomatoes,  water,  spices,  parsley  and  herbs  into  an  agate  saucepan 
and  cook  until  tomatoes  are  soft.  Fry  the  onions  in  butter  until  light  brown; 
add  flour  and  Seasonings,  then  the  tomatoes  gradually.  Cook  slowly  until  the 
sauce  thickens  and  strain. 

CUCUMBER  PICKLES.  Pour  hot  water  over  one-half  bushel  small  cu- 
cumbers and  sprinkle  with  salt  for  three  mornings.  The  fourth  morning  wash 
the  cucumbers,  pour  hot  vinegar  over  them  and  let  stand  a  week  or  until  a 
scum  rises;  then  wash  again  and  pour  over  them  two  gallons  of  vinegar  and 
one  ounce  each  of  black  pepper,  cloves,  cinnamon,  allspice,  and  white  mustard 
seed,  one  pound  brown  sugar,  a  little  sliced  horse  radish  and  a  piece  of  alum  the 
size  of  a  butternut  dissolved  in  boiling  water. — Mrs.  Odie  Umstead. 

BEET  PICKLE.  Boil  beets  until  tender,  quarter  and  put  in  a  jar,  add 
syrup,  made  of  one  cup  of  vinegar,  one  cup  sugar,  to  two  cups  of  vinegar,  let 
it  be  boiling  when  added  to  beets,  use  any  spices  desired.  Seal. — Mrs.  M.  S. 
Whitted. 

WATER  MELON  RIND  SWEET  PICKLE.  Boil  rind  twenty  minutes  in 
salt  water,  twenty  minutes  in  alum  water,  twenty  minutes  in  clear  water,  then 
forty  minutes  in  a  thin  syrup  of  sugar  and  water.  Then  for  ten  pounds  of  rind, 
make  a  syrup  of  eight  pounds  of  sugar,  one  quart  of  vinegar,  cloves,  gingers, 
etc.    Let  boil  until  rinds  are  clear. — Mrs.  M.  S.  Whitted. 

CRANBERRY  SAUCE.  One  quart  cranberries,  two  cups  boiling  water,  one 
and  one-half  to  two  cups  sugar,  boil  the  sugar  and  water  ten  minutes,  skin,  add 
berries  and  cook  without  stirring  until  they  are  translucent. — Mrs.  H.  E.  Seeman. 

CRANBERRY  SAUCE.  By  measure  use  half  as  much  sugar  as  cranberries 
and  half  as  much  water  as  sugar.  Cover  and  cook  ten  minutes,  set  aside  to 
cool.    Long  cooking  makes  a  bkter  sauce. — Mrs.  Arthur  Cole. 

TOMATO  SAUCE.  One  peek  ripe  tomatoes,  four  pounds  of  sugar,  one-half 
gallon  vinegar,  flavor  with  cloves,  cinnamon  and  spice  and  boil  five  hours,  (fine 
for  turnip  salad.) — Mrs.  H.  E.  Seeman. 

62 


USE  DAN  VALLEY  SUPERLATIVE  FLOUR 


KNOX  GELATINE  improves  soups  and  gravies 


BLACKBERRY  VINEGAR.  One-half  gallon  Ijlackberrics,  one  quart  apple 
vinegar,  sugar.  Wash  the  berries  and  place  in  an  earthen  vessel,  cover  with  the 
vinegar.  Let  stand  for  tAventy-four  hours.  Mash  and  strain  through  a  cloth. 
Add  sugar,  cup  for  cup  of  juice.  Place  on  stove  and  boil  for  five  minutes.  Pour 
into  sterilized  bottles,  seal  with  parrafine.  Use  one  tablespoonf ul  of  juice  to  a 
glass  of  crushed  ice. — Mrs.  Kate  Huckabee. 

TOMATO  SAUCE.  Boil  together  until  soft  one  peck  ripe  tomatoes  and  three 
medium-sized  onions.  Rub  through  a  seive.  Boil  the  juice  for  an  hour,  then 
add  one  pint  of  vinegar,  tAvo  ounces  salt,  one-half  ounce  cloves,  one  ounce  all- 
spice, one -half  pound  sugar,  one-half  ounce  black  pepper,  one  ounce  cayenne 
pepper.  Boil  slowly  for  about  five  hours.  Bottle  into  perfectly  dry  bottles,  and 
cork  securely  when  cold, — Mrs.  Stella  E.  Pritchard. 

TOMATO  CATSUP.  Take  a  bushel  of  ripe  tomatoes,  wash,  slice,  and  cook 
thoroughly,  strain  through  a  sifter,  being  careful  to  get  all  pulp  and  juice.  Add 
to  this  one  quart  onions  sliced,  tAvo  quarts  vinegar,  one  fourth  pound  mixed  spices, 
salt  and  sugar  to  taste,  (about  one  pound  sugar)  cook  until  one-half  its  quantity. 
Put  in  pint  bottles  Avhile  hot,  and  seal  with  melted  bees-Avax  and  rosin. — Mrs. 
B.  L.  Tyree. 


Pickles 


SLICED  GREEX  TOMATO  PICKLE.  (Sweet).  One  gallon  sliced  green 
tomatoes,  six  large  onions,  sliced,  one  teaspoonful  ground  black  pepper,  one 
small  red  pepper,  two  tablespoonfuls  Avhite  mustard  seed,  one  half  cup  celery 
seed,  two  pounds  brown  sugar,  one  tablespoonful  allspice,  one  tablespoonful 
cloves,  pounded,  and  tied  loosely  in  muslin  bag,  sprinkle  sliced  tomatoes  and 
sliced  onions  with  salt.  Let  stand  four  hours  in  separate  bowls,  then  soak  in 
cold  water  four  hours.  Drain  well,  pressing  out  the  water.  Put  in  porcelain 
kettle,  mixing  the  mustard  and  celery  seed,  sugar  and  pepper  thoroughly  with 
chopped  ingredients.  Cover  with  good  vinegar  to  which  the  spices  have  been 
added.  Boil  slowly  until  quite  soft  and  tender.  This  pickle  is  not  good  if 
removed  from  the  fire  before  the  tomatoes  are  tender.  After  cooking,  leave  in 
the  jar  Avith  plenty  of  the  prepared  Annegar.  Take  spice  bag  out  after  three 
days.  Pack  in  commercial  jars  after  six  AA'ceks.  Use  jar  No.  5,042.  Process 
thirty  minutes. — Mrs.  J.  M.  Whitted. 

CHOW-CHOW.  One  gallon  chopped  cabbage,  one-half  gallon  chopped  green 
tomatoes,  one  dozen  large  onions,  chopped,  one  dozen  SAveet  bell  peppers,  green 
(chopped),  one-half  dozen  SAveet  bell  peppers,  red  (chopped),  two  pounds  sugar, 
one-half  cup  ground  mustard,  one  cup  white  mustard  seed,  two  tablespoonfuls 
celery  seed,  one  tablespoonful  ground  ginger,  one  ounce  cloves  mashed  and  tied  in 
muslin  bag.  Sprinkle  lightly  with  salt  the  chopped  ingredients,  putting  each  in 
in  separate  boAvl.  Let  stand  over  night.  Press  the  brine  from  them.  Bring 
vinegar  Avith  other  ingredients  to  a  boil,  add  chop2)ed  ingredients,  and  boil 
slowly  half  an  hour.  Pour  into  a  large  jar,  remove  spice  bag  after  three  days. 
After  six  Aveeks  pack  in  commercial  jars.  Use  same  Ainegar  in  Avhich  pickles  were 
cooked  AA-hen  packing  choAv-choAA*,  or  chopped  pickles,  in  commercial  jars.  L"se 
jar  Xo.  5,042.    Process  fifteen  minutes. 

THE  PEPPERS.  Select  SAA-eet  ball  peppers  of  medium  and  uniform  size, 
cut  off  the  top  with  the  stem,  remove  every  seed,  stutf  peppers  with  the  filling, 
replace  top  and  stitch  firmly  Avith  needle  and  coarse  thread.  Place  peppers  in 
stone  jars,  pouring  over  them  enough  boiling  spiced  vinegar  to  cover  thoroughly. 
Allow  to  remain  in  A'inegar  six  weeks  before  packing  in  commercial  jars.  Use 
fresh  spiced  A^negar  for  packing.  Pack  in  square  Queen  jars-  or  jar  No.  5,042. 
Process  fifteen  minutes. 

63 


USE  DAN  RIVER  SELF-RISING  FLOUR 


Send  for  the  KNOX  GELATINE  Recipe  Book 


STUFFED  BELL  PEPPER  PICKLE.  Chop  fine  on  medium-sized  hard, 
white  head  of  cabbage,  sprinkle  it  witli  salt  and  allow  to  stand  two  hours. 
Squeeze  dry  by  placing  in  muslin  bag  and  twisting  tightly.  Thoroughly  mix 
with  this  cabbage:  two  ounces  white  mustard  seed,  two  tablespoonfuls  celery 
seed,  two  tablespoonfuls  grated  horse-radish. 

DIXIE  RELISH.  One  quart  chopped  cabbage,  one  pint  chopped  white  'onion, 
one  pint  chopped  sweet  red  pepper,  one  pint  chopped  sweet  green  pepper,  five 
tablespoonfuls  salt,  four  tablespoonfuls  mustard  seed,  two  tablespoonfuls  crushed 
celery  seed,  two  cups  sugar,  one  quart  vinegar.  Soak  the  pepper  in  brine  (one 
cup  salt  to  one  gallon  water)  for  twenty-four  hours.  Freshen  in  clear  cold 
water  for  one  or  tw^o  hours.  Drain  well.  Remove  the  seed  and  coarse  white 
sections.  Chop  separately,  and  measure  the  chopped  cabbage,  peppers,  and 
onions  before  mixing.  Add  spices,  sugar,  and  vinegar.  Let  stand  over  night 
covered  in  a  crock  or  enameled  vessel.  Pack  in  small  sterilized  jars — No.  5,042. 
When  ready  to  pack,  drain  off  the  vinegar  from  the  relish,  in  order  that  the 
jar  may  be  well-packed.  Pack  the  relish  in  the  jars,  pressing  it  carefully;  then 
pour  over  it  the  vinegar  which  Avas  drained  off.  Paddle  the  jar  thoroughly,  to 
get  out  every  bubble  and  to  alloAv  the  vinegar  to  displace  all  air  spaces.  Garnish 
each  jar  with  two  quarter-inch  pointed  strips  of  red  pepper  three  inches  long. 
Place  these  strips  vertically  on  opposite  sides  of  the  seams  of  the  jar.  Pro- 
cess for  fifteen  minutes  at  boiling  temperature. — ^Irs.  J.  M.  Whitted. 

PEPPER  HASH  PICKLE.  TAventy-four  large  sAveet  peppers,  tAvelve  medium- 
sized  onions  (if  onions  are  not  preferred,  may  be  omitted.)  Wash  peppers, 
remove  seeds  and  ribs,  cut  onions  as  fine  as  Avanted,  salt  and  sugar  to  taste  in 
vinegar  to  cover.  Boil  very  tender  and  bottle  or  can  Avhile  hot.  There  should 
be  very  little  vinegar  Avhen  it  has  cooked  sufficiently.  — Mrs.  J.  W.  Roach. 

CHOW-CHOW.  Tavo  quarts  tomatoes,  tAVO  quarts  cabbage,  one  quart  onions, 
three  or  four  green  peppers,  tAvo  quarts  vinegar,  tAVO  pounds  broAvn  sugar,  one- 
fourth  cup  salt.  Run  all  vegetables  through  meat  chopper,  add  sugar,  vinegar, 
salt,  tAvo  tablespoons  mustard,  one  spoon  celery  seed,  tAvo  spoons  ginger,  one 
paprika,  tw'o  tumeric,  one  of  Avhole  cloves.  Boil  one  hour.  Put  in  glass  jars 
and  seal. — Mrs.  A.  J.  Bullington. 


Beverages 


"Brink,  pretty  creature,  drinTc." 

TEA  PUNCH.  One  pint  grape  juice,  one  pint  Apollinaris  AA^ater,  juice  of 
two  to  five  lemons,  juice  of  tAvo  to  four  oranges,  one  pint  strong  tea.  SAveeten 
to  taste,  ice  and  Avhen  served  from  punch  boAvl,  add  sliced  oranges,  pineapple 
and  Maraschino  cherries. — Mrs.  M.  F.  Markham. 

FRUIT  PUNCH.  One  quart  grape  juice,  one  pint  water,  six  bananas  diced, 
six  oranges  diced,  one  can  diced  pineapple,  juice  of  six  lemons,  one  bottle 
Maraschino  cherries,  place  in  punch  boAvl  Avith  plenty  craeked  ice. — Mrs.  D.  F. 
Parker. 

PUNCH.  Juice  of  five  lemons,  and  five  oranges,  one  pint  straAvberry  syrup, 
one  can  grated  pineapple,  one-half  pint  Maraschino  cherries,  one  quart  Apollinaris 
water,  one  pound  sugar,  one  cup  strong  tea,  sufficient  boiling  Avater  to  make  one 
and  one-half  gallons  of  liquid.  Boil  the  sugar  Avith  a  cup  of  Avater  for  five 
minutes.  To  this  syrup  add  the  fruit  juices,  Apollinaris  Avater,  tea  and  the 
boiling  Avater. — Mrs.  J.  T.  Jerome. 

64 


USE  DAN  RIVER  SELF-RISING  FLOUR 


KNOX  GELATINE  comes  in  two  packages— PLAIN  and  ACIDULATED 

(Lemon  Flavor) 


GINGER  ALE  PUNCH.  Make  three  quarts  of  tea  (not  very  strong),  add 
some  sugar  while  it  is  hot.  When  cold  add  juice  of  twelve  lemons.  Dilute  the 
mixture  with  water,  until  the  proper  taste  is  obtained,  also  add  more  sugar,  to 
suit  the  taste.  When  ready  to  serve  add  three  bottles  of  ginger  ale.  Serve  with 
crushed  ice  in  glasses. — Mrs.  M.  S.  Whitted. 

BRANDIED  FIGS.  Four  pounds  figs,  two  cups  water,  four  pounds  sugar, 
two  ounces  vanilla  bean.  Wash,  soak  and  steam  the  figs  for  twenty  minutes. 
Make  a  syrup  by  boiling  together  the  sugar  and  water,  and  when  the  sugar 
is  dissolved  add  the  figs  and  cook  until  transparent.  Set  aside  for  twenty-four 
hours;  then  drain  off  the  liquid  and  boil  it  down  until  thick.  Add  the  vanilla 
bean  to  it  while  cooking.  When  cold  remove  the  vanilla  bean  and  measure,  add 
an  equal  quantity  of  good  brandy.  Put  the  figs  in  cans,  fill  to  overflowing  with 
the  syrup  and  seal  at  once. — Mrs.  W.  P.  Clements. 

A  TEMPERATE  MINT  JULEP.  Thoroughly  crush  a  bunch  of  mint,  then 
soak  it  for  half  an  hour  in  the  strained  juice  of  tAvo  lemons,  adding  the  grated 
rind  of  one,  being  careful  not  to  get  in  any  of  the  white  skin.  Boil  a  pint  of 
water  with  a  pound  of  granulated  sugar  until  the  syrup  spins  a  thread.  Take 
it  from  the  fire  and  stir  in  the  lemon  and  mint,  the  juice  of  an  orange,  and  the 
same  amount  of  pineapple  juice.    Strain  and  cool  and  serve  with  crushed  ice. 

LEMONADE.  Wash  the  lemons  well  before  using,  scrubbing  them  lightly 
with  a  small  brush,  rinse  and  dry.  Boil  them  until  soft,  grate  off  the  yellow 
rind,  being  careful  not  to  get  in  any  of  the  bitter  white  skin.  Cut  the  lemons 
in  two  and  scjueeze  out  the  juice,  add  two  ounces  of  granulated  sugar  and  a 
quart  or  more  of  water  to  three  lemons.  Let  stand  for  half  and  hour,  strain 
and  add  a  freshly  cut  slice  of  lemon  to  each  glass.  The  water  may  be  poured 
boiling  hot  over  the  lemon  and  sugar,  and  then  cooled  if  wished. — Mrs.  M.  F. 
Markham. 

MINT  COCKTAIL.  Cut  the  pulp  from  six  oranges  into  small  pieces  and 
cut  one  ripe  pineapple  into  small  cubes.  Break  a  half  pound  after-dinner  mints 
into  small  pieces  and  allow  to  set  on  the  ice  for  one  hour  before  serving.  Serve 
in  tall  sherbet  glasses. — Mrs.  M.  F.  Markham. 

BLACKBERRY  ACID.  One  gallon  fresh  blackberries,  one  quart  vinegar. 
Let  stand  twenty-four  hours,  strain,  then  add  to  this  one  gallon  fresh  black- 
berries. Let  this  stand  another  twenty-four  hours.  Then  strain,  and  to  one 
quart  of  juice  add  one  pint  of  sugar.  Let  it  boil  ten  minutes.  Bottle  while 
hot  and  seal.  This  is  a  delightful  beverage,  using  tAvo  tablespoons  of  juice  to  a 
glass  of  ice  cold  water.  You  can  use  the  juice  in  sauce  for  puddings. — Mrs.  Ella 
Boone  Dickson. 

BLACKBERRY  ACID.  Twelve  pounds  berries,  five  ounces  tartaric  acid, 
two  quarts  water,  one  and  one-half  pounds  sugar  to  one  quart  of  juice.  Dis- 
solve the  acid  in  boiling  water  and  pour  over  the  berries.  Let  stand  twenty- 
four  hours,  then  strain,  without  bruising  the  berries.  To  one  quart  of  juice  add 
one  and  one-half  pounds  sugar.  Let  this  remain  in  a  jar  or  open  vessel  for 
three  days,  stirring  every  few  hours  till  sugar  has  dissolved,  when  it  is  ready  to 
bottle.  To  use  as  a  refreshing  drink,  put  half  glass  each  of  water  and  acid, 
adding  crushed  ice. — Mrs.  M.  F.  Markham. 

GRAPE  JUICE  ICE.  One  pint  grape  juice,  two  cups  sugar,  three  cups  water, 
one  lemon.  Make  a  syrup  of  sugar,  water,  and  lemon  and  pour  on  the  beaten 
whites  of  two  eggs.  Let  stand  a  while  and  add  enough  water  to  make  one-half 
gallon.    Free.    Serve  in  tall  glasses  using  grapes  and  leaves  to  garnish. 


65 

USE  DAN  VALLEY  SUPERLATIVE  FLOUR 


KNOX  GELATINE  is  GUARANTEED  to  please  or  money  back 


Canning 


GARDEN  PEAS.  Use  No.  2  cans  or  pint  jars  for  peas^  as  it  is  very  dif- 
ficult to  sterilize  them  in  larger  jars.  Grade  the  peas,  keeping  the  young  and 
tender  small  peas  in  a  different  vessel  from  the  larger  and  older  peas.  This 
grading  is  necessary  to  prevent  spoilage.  Large  peas  require  a  much  longer 
boiling  period  than  young  and  tender  ones.  Place  small  peas  in  sack  and  plunge 
into  boiling  water  three  minutes,  then  into  cold.  (This  is  called  blanching.) 
Large  peas  must  be  blanched  five  minutes.  Pack  peas  in  No.  2  can,  fill  with 
brine  and  add  one  teaspoonful  of  sugar.  Exhaust  three  minutes  and  process 
one  hour  and  fifteen  minutes  after  Avater  is  boiling  furiously.  For  older  peas 
process  one  and  one-half  hours.  Peas  must  be  process  or  boiled  the  same  length 
of  time  on  each  of  three  days.  Eemove  from  the  canner  after  first  day's  i:»ro- 
cessing  and  set  aside  until  next  day.  Return  to  the  canner  on  second  day,  boil 
tender  peas  one  hour,  larger  peas,  one  and  one-half  hours.  Remove  from  canner  and 
set  aside  until  the  third  day,  when  the  last  processing  or  boiling  is  done.  Boil 
tender  peas  one  hour  and  larger  peas  one  and  one-half  hours.  When  canning 
peas  in  glass,  process  pint  jars  of  tender  peas  one  and  one  half  hours.  Process 
pint  jars  of  older  peas  two  hours. 

LIMA  BEANS.  Use  No.  2  can  or  pint  jar  for  beans.  Select  young  and 
tender  lima  or  butter-l)eans,  grade  them  as  to  size,  blanch  from  two  to  four 
minutes  and  pack  can  or  jar  to  within  one-half  inch  of  the  top.  Fill  can  or 
jar  with  brine,  (one  gallon  of  water  and  one  third  cup  salt.)  Exhaust  can  three 
minutes  and  process  one  hour  on  first  day.  Remove  from  canner  and  set  aside 
for  twenty-four  hours.  After  the  water  is  boiling  in  canner  on  the  second  day 
place  the  cans  therein  for  a  second  processing  or  boiling  of  one  hour  in  length; 
r.emove;  set  aside  for  twenty-four  hours,  and  process  one  hour  ou  the  third  day. 
When  canning  butter-beans  in  glass  jars  use  a  pint  jar  and  process  one  hour  and 
twenty-five  minutes  each  of  three  days. 

OKRA.  Gather  young  pods,  wash  in  cold  water,  cut  off  stem  but  do  not 
cut  into  seed  pod.  Can  okra  whole.  Put  in  wire  basket  of  canner  or  in  muslin 
sack  and  plunge  into  boiling  water  for  three  minutes  and  then  into  cold.  Pack 
in  jars  or  cans  and  fill  with  brine,  (one  gallon  water  to  one-third  cup  of  salt.) 
Exhaust  No  3  tins  three  minutes.  Process  one  hour  and  fifteen  minutes.  Ex- 
haust No.  2  tin  cans  three  minutes.  Process  one  hour.  Remove  from  canner 
after  processing  and  set  aside  for  twenty-four  hours.  After  the  water  is  boil- 
ing in  the  canner  on  the  second  day,  place  the  can  therein  for  a  second  process- 
ing of  the  same  length  of  time  as  on  the  first  day.  Remove  from  canner  and 
set  aside  for  twenty-four  hours,  and  process  on  the  third  day  and  for  the  same 
length  of  time  as  on  the  second  day.  When  canning  okra  in  glass,  process  one- 
quart  jar  one  and  one  half  hours  each  day.  Process  one  pint  jar  one  hour  and 
fifteen  minutes  each  day. 

TOMATO  KETCHUP.  Select  only  ripe  tomatoes  for  ketchup;  wash,  but 
do  not  peel;  cut  out  green  cores  and  bad  places;  quarter,  measure,  and  place 
on  stove  in  open  top  porcelain  or  agate  vessel.  For  every  gallon  .of  tomatoes  add 
one  level  cup  of  finely  chopped  onions.  Boil  until  both  tomato  and  onion  are 
soft.  Strain  juice  and  pulp  through  a  coarse  wire  sieve,  mashing  through  all  the 
pulp  possible.  Measure  this  strained  pulp  and  juice  and  proceed  as  in  the  fol- 
lowing recipe:  Two  gallons  strained  mixture  tomatoes  and  onions;  two  and 
one-half  teaspoonfuls  ground  cloves,  three  level  teaspoonfuls  ground  ginger,  two 
level  teaspoonfuls  ground  red  pepper,  three  level  tablespoonfuls  ground  all 
spice,  one  level  tablespoonful  ground  black  pepper,  one  and  one-half  level  cup 
(one-half  pint  cup)  sugar,  three-fourths  level  cup  (one-half  pint)  salt,  one 
quart  vinegar.  Place  strained  tomatoes  in  agate  vessel;  add  spices,  sugar,  and 
salt;  boil  until  thick;  then  add  hot  vinegar  and  let  boil  thirty  minutes  before 

66 


USE  DAN  RIVER  SELF-RISING  FLOUR 


The  KNOX  ACIDULATED  package  contains  flavoring  and  coloring 


beginning  to  bottle  mixture.  Use  clear  flint  ten-ounce  grape  juice  bottle.  Wash 
Nvell  with  soda  iwul  place  in  vessel  of  hot  water  until  you  are  ready  to  use.  It 
is  best  to  put  v.ire  netting  in  the  bottom  of  the  vessel,  place  the  bottles  filled 
with  water  thereon,  and  let  come  to  a  boil  thus  sterilizing.  Pour  out  water.  Fill 
hot  bottles  with  boiling  ketchup.  Cork  tightly.  The  measures  for  all  recipes 
must  be  taken  level.  Scrape  off  spoons  with  a  knife^  patting  and  scraping  until 
measure  is  level.  These  measures  have  been  taken  accurately^  and  one  should 
get  good  results  if  directions  are  followed  to  the  letter.  A  good  ketchup  may 
be  made  in  winter  by  using  five  can  of  4-H  tomatoes,  one  cup  chopped  onions, 
and  half  the  quantity  of  all  other  ingredients  mentioned  in  the  above  recipe. 

APPLE  JELLY.  In  making  apple  jelly  select  a  good  tart  apple,  firm  and 
juicy.  The  winesap  apple  is  excellent  for  this  purpose.  Wash  well  and  take 
out  all  defective  spots.  Cut  into  quarters  straight  through  the  core  and  do  not 
peel.  The  core  and  peeling  give  a  great  deal  of  pectin,  which  is  needed  in 
jelly-making.  Put  these  pieces  in  a  porcelain-lined  or  agate  vessel  to  cook. 
For  each  measure  or  weight  of  apple  there  should  be  added  at  least  one  measure 
or  weight  of  water.  With  some  fruits  which  are  hard  and  difiicult  to  cook  it  is 
the  practice  to  add  one  and  one-half  measure  or  Aveight  of  water  to  each  measure 
or  weight  of  fruit  taken.  Cook  until  they  are  quite  soft.  Have  ready  a  bag 
of  unbleached  muslin  or  flannel,  which  should  be  hung  from  a  strong  nail  or 
hook,  pour  into  it  the  cooked  apples,  and  allow  them  to  drip  overnight  into  a 
large  bowl.  The  juice  thus  obtained  is  measured  next  morning;  and  for  every 
pint  of  juice  add  one  level  pint  of  sugar.  Cook  this  mixture  in  a  porcelain- 
lined  or  agate  vessel  until  it  jells — that  is,  until  it  slides  in  sheets  from  the 
spoon.  Practice  will  make  one  expert  in  determining  when  jelly  is  cooked  enough. 
If  a  centigrade  thermometer  is  used  the  jelly  should  be  done  at  about  105^/4 
degrees  temperature.  If  cooked  too  long  the  product  becomes  sticky  as  do 
preserves,  and  then  cannot  be  called  jelly.  Should  one  be  fortunate  enough  to 
have  any  quinces,  it  would  be  well  to  make  the  jelly  half  of  apples  and  half 
of  quinces.  Quinces  jell  more  easily  than  almost  any  other  fruit.  After  jelly 
is  done,  pour  it  in  glasses  which  have  been  sterilized.  Set  away  in  a  cool  place, 
covering  with  a  cloth,  and  next  morning  melt  paraffin  and  pour  a  thin  coating 
over  every  glass  or  jar.  Never  seal  jelly  while  hot.  Put  the  top  on  the  glass, 
write  name  on  label,  and  paste  it  under  the  bottom  of  the  glass.  This  mil 
serve  until  the  jelly  is  ready  for  the  marker,  when  the  4*H  label  may  be  pasted 
one-fourth  inch  from  the  lower  edge  of  the  glass. — Mrs.  J.  M.  Whitted. 

BLACKBEERY  JELLY.  Blackberries  should  not  be  fully  ripe  for  good 
jelly.  Wash  them  and  place  in  a  vessel  with  one  quart  of  water  to  a  half  bushel 
of  fruit.  Cook  until  soft.  Put  into  the  bag,  let  drip,  measure  one  pint  of 
juice  to  one  pint  of  sugar  and  proceed  as  in  apple  jelly. 

SCUPPERNONG  JELLY.  Grapes  should  not  be  fully  ripe.  Wash  and  place 
in  vessel  both  the  grape  and  the  hull.  It  is  best  to  pop  the  grape  from  the 
hull  before  cooking.  Cook  until  soft,  pour  into  a  bag,  let  drip,  measure  one 
pint  of  juice  to  one  level  pint  of  sugar,  and  proceed  as  in  apple  jelly.  Scup- 
pernong  jelly  made  without  the  hulls  is  of  light  amber  color  and  quite  flat  and 
insipid.  When  the  hulls  are  added  a  beautiful  red  color  and  a  delicious  acid 
flavor  is  obtained.  To  prevent  cream  of  tartar  crystals  forming  in  scuppernong 
jelly  or  any  other  jelly,  can  the  boiled  juice  in  glass  jars  and  leave  until  the 
crystals  form  and  deposit.  The  juice  can  then  be  poured  off  and  used  as  given 
in' the  recipe. — Mrs.  J.  M.  Whitted. 

CANNED  BABY  BEETS.  Use  only  young  and  tender  baby  beets  not 
over  one  inch  in  diameter,  preferable  three -fourth  of  an  inch.  Boil  three-fourths 
done,  pack  in  cans  or  jars,  using  fruit  of  uniform  size,  and  arrange  symmet- 
rically. After  packing  jar,  fill  crevices  with  hot  Avater.  (Never  use  cold  water 
after  cooking  beets.)  Seal;  process  No.  3  can  one  and  one-half  hours.  If  large 
beets  are  to  be  used,  boil  three-fourths  done.  Slice  in  one-fourth  inch  slices, 
and  proceed  as  Avith  small  beets.  When  canning  beets  in  glass  jars,  process 
quart  jar  for  tAvo  hours.    Process  pint  jars  for  one  and  one-half  hours. 

67 


USE  DAN  VALLEY  SUPERLATIVE  FLOUR 


KNOX  GELATINE  makes  Desserts,  Salads,  Candies,  Puddings,  Ices,  etc. 


SOUP  MIXTURE.  Five  quarts  tomatoes,  two  quarts  corn,  two  quarts  okra, 
two  tablespoonfuls  sugar  (level),  two  tablespoonf uls  salt  (level).  Scald  and 
peel  tomatoes,  cutting  out  green  or  hard  spots.  Chop  and  measure.  Cut  young 
and  tender  field  or  sugar  corn  from  cob.  Slice  okra  in  rings  one-half  inch  thick. 
Peel  and  quarter  tomatoes.  Place  all  in  an  open  agate  kettle  and  boil  until 
thick.  Pour  in  No.  2  can  while  hot,  seal  and  process  one  horn.  Process  a  No.  3 
can  one  and  one-half  hours.  Always  use  an  asbestos  mat  under  the  kettle  when 
boiling  a  soup  mixture.  It  is  very  easily  scorched.  When  canning  soup  mix- 
ture in  glass  jars,  process  Cjuart  jars  two  hours.  Process  pint  jars  one  and  one 
half  hours. — Mrs.  M.  P.  AIarkham. 

CANNING  CORN.  In  canning  corn,  select  when  it  is  young,  tender,  and  at 
the  milky  stage.  It  is  best  to  take  it  straight  from  the  garden  to  the  canner, 
as  corn  deteriorates  very  quickly.  Sugar  corn  is  best,  but  if  this  corn  cannot 
he  had,  use  field  corn;  but  be  sure  it  is  fresh  and  tender.  Blanch  the  corn  on 
the  cob  for  two  minutes,  then  cut  the  corn  from  the  cob,  using  a  sharp  knife. 
Do  not  prepare  more  corn  than  may  be  canned  immediately,  as  it  c|uickly  sours 
and  the  can  may  be  lost.  Pack  in  No.  2  cans  (do  not  use  larger  can  for  corn) 
to  Avithin  one  inch  of  the  top;  fill  with  cold  water;  add  one  level  teaspoonful  of 
salt  and  two  level  teaspoonfuls  of  sugar;  seal,  but  do  not  tip;  exhaust  fifteen 
minutes.  Tip  the  hole  with  a  drop  of  solder ;  return  to  the  boiling  water  and 
process  for  one  hour  and  fiftten  minutes.  Remove  from  the  fire  and  set  aside 
for  twenty-four  hours.  After  water  is  boiling  in  the  canner  the  second  day, 
place  the  cans  therein  for  a  second  processing  of  one  hour  and  fifteen  minutes 
in  length ;  remove,  set  aside  for  twenty-four  hours  and  process  again  one  hour 
and  fifteen  minutes  of  the  third  day.  This  is  the  only  sure  method  of  keeping 
corn.  Never  use  any  acids  or  preserving  powders.  When  canning  corn  in  glass, 
use  a  pint  jar,  as  it  is  very  difficult  to  sterilize  a  quart  jar.  Process  a  pint  jar 
one  and  one-half  hours. 


Recipes  for  the  Sick 


The  food  eaten  by  a  sick  person  has  in  many  cases  as  much  to  do  with 
rapid  recovery  as  have  drugs.  It  must  be  remembered  that  the  palate  is  more 
sensitive  in  sickness  than  in  health,  both  to  seasonings  and  temperatures,  so  that 
less  seasoning  and  more  moderate  degrees  of  heat  and  cold  must  be  observed. 

Daintiness  in  serving  greatly  influences  the  appetite  of  the  patient  and,  there- 
fore, for  this  reason  it  is  preferable  to  serve  small  portions  and  present  the 
meal  by  courses  than  place  all  on  the  tray  at  one  time.  Have  all  hot  beverages 
brought  to  the  door  of  the  sick  room  in  a  covered  pitcher,  then  poured  into  the 
cup,  thus  avoiding  the  danger  of  spilling  liquids  into  the  saucer  while  carrying 
them  to  the  patient. 

Pood  should  not  be  kept  in  the  sick  room  between  meals.  It  will  be  fresher 
and  more  appetizing  if  brought  direct  from  storeroom  or  refrigerator  when 
wanted. 

BARLEY  WATER.  One  and  one-half  tablespoonfuls  pearl  barley,  one  quart 
cold  water,  one-third  teasponful  salt,  juice  of  one-half  lemon,  also  a  little  sugar 
if  desired.  Wash  the  barley,  pour  the  water  over  it  and  soak  for  several  hours. 
Add  salt  and  cook  in  a  double  boiler  for  at  least  three  hours.  Strain  through 
cheese  cloth  or  a  fine  strainer,  flavor  with  the  lemon,  and  add  sugar  if  liked. 

Be  very  careful  to  keep  such  food  as  milk,  beef  tea,  etc.,  covered  while  in  the 
refrigerator,  to  avoid  contact  with  other  or  more  odorous  foods.  If  the  refrig- 
erator has  more  than  one  compartment,  reserve  one  exclusively  for  the  use  of 
the  sick  room. 

68 


USE  DAN  RIVER  SELF-RISING  FLOUR 


Use  KNOX  GELATINE  if  you  would  be  sure  of  results 


When  liquid  foods  are  given,  other  receptacles  than  those  for  medicine  should 
be  used,  as  the  association  of  the  two  is  oftentimes  unpleasant.  When  tlie  dietary 
is  limited,  serve  the  foods  that  are  permitted,  in  as  many  forms  as  possiljle  to 
avoid  sameness.  For  instance:  beef  tea  may  be  given  hot  in  the  form  of 
essence — as  savory  jelly,  frozen,  and  as  beef  tea  custard;  practically  the  same 
food  but  more  palatable  because  served  in  different  forms. 

EGGNOG.  One  egg,  two-thirds  cup  milk,  one  tablespoonful  sugar,  one 
tablespoonful  run  or  brandy,  pinch  of  salt.  Separate  the  white  from  the  yolk 
of  the  egg,  beat  the  latter  and  add  sugar,  salt  and  milk.  Stir  in  the  rum  or 
brandy  and  beat,  and  add  the  white  of  stiffly  beaten  egg  at  the  last  moment  before 
serving. 

TO  STERILIZE  MILK.  Pour  fresh  milk  into  small  bottles,  filling  them 
almost  full.  Put  absorbent  cotton  in  the  necks  instead  of  corks,  and  place  the 
bottles  in  a  saucepan  containing  sufficient  cold  water  to  almost  fill  the  pan; 
bring  nearly  to  boiling  point  and  let  the  bottles  remain  in  the  water  fifteen  min- 
utes.   Then  remove  and  cool. 

DAINTY  PUDDING.  Thin  slices  of  cold  bread  without  crust,  fresh,  hot 
stewed  fruit  sweetened  to  taste,  custard  or  cream.  Cut  the  bread  into  pieces 
about  three  inches  long  and  an  inch  wide.  Line  a  cup  with  the  pieces  fitted 
closely  together ;  fill  with  hot,  deep-colored  fruit,  and  place  more  bread  over 
top.  Place  a  plate  over  the  pudding,  put  a  weight  on  the  plate,  and  set  aside 
till  cold.    Turn  out,  and  serve  with  cream  or  custard. — Mrs.  M.  F.  Markham. 

BEEF  JUICE.  Broil  half  a  pound  of  lean  juicy  round  steak,  cut  one  inch 
thick,  until  each  side  is  just  seared  and  the  juice  will  flow  when  cut.  Divide  into 
small  pieces  and  press  in  a  lemon  squeezer  (or  a  meat  press  if  you  have  one.) 
Put  the  juice  into  a  small  saucepan  and  stand  it  in  hot  water,  stir  till  the 
liquid  is  hot,  but  do  not  let  it  boil  or  cook  enough  to  curdle.  Salt  slightly  and 
serve  immediately.  If  you  have  cup  in  hot  water  and  work  quickly,  there  will 
be  no  need  of  re-heating  juice. 

GRUEL.  Have  two  cups  of  water,  (if  rolled  or  flaked  oatmeal  is  used,  or 
three  cups  if  granulated  meal),  and  one  level  teaspoonful  salt  boiling  briskly  in 
top  of  double  boiler.  Stir  in  one  cup  of  meal,  boil  rapidly  five  minutes.  Then 
place  top  part  of  boiler  over  the  lower  part,  cover,  and  cook  from  thirty  to 
sixty  minutes.  When  thoroughly  cooked,  take  one-fourth  cup  of  mush,  stir  into 
milk  or  water  and  rub  through  a  strainer.  Heat,  season  and  serve.  Dilute 
with  cream  or  milk. 

HOT  EGGS  FOR  INVALIDS.  Place  a  small  bowl  suitable  for  serving,  in  a 
pan  of  water  just  off  the  boiling  point;  put  in  one  teaspoon  butter  and  let 
it  run  over  the  bottom  and  sides;  break  in  one  or  two  eggs,  add  a  bit  of  salt 
and  pepper  if  liked,  and  stir  with  a  spoon  till  egg  is  mingled  and  tastes  hot ; 
serve  at  once  with  toast  or  wafers.  This  is  more  acceptable  to  an  invalid  than 
is  a  cold  raw  egg,  or  a  soft  egg  with  the  white  stringy  and  half -cooked. 

JUNKET.  Warm  one  pint  milk  to  blood  heat,  dissolve  in  it  one  tablespoon 
sugar  and  one-fourth  teaspoon  salt,  flavor  with  one  teaspoonful  vanilla  or  one 
tablespoonful  wine,  or  strong  coffee;  stir  in  quickly  one  junket  tablet  and  turn 
into  a  dish  for  serving.  When  firm  and  cold  serve  with  sugar  and  cream,  or 
with  any  fruit  whip  made  by  beating  one  egg  white  and  one  cup  of  mashed  or 
grated  fresh  fruit,  or  stewed  fruit,  slowly  still  stiff. — Mrs.  M.  F.  Markham. 


69 

USE  DAN  VALLEY  SUPERLATIVE  FLOUR 


Simply  add  water  and  sugar  to  the  KNOX  ACIDULATED  package 


Household  Hints  * 


A  well-beaten  white  of  egg  added  to  mashed  potatoes^  whipping  the  potato 
hard  before  serving,  will  add  to  the  looks  and  taste  of  the  dish. 

The  whites  of  eggs  will  whip  more  readily  if  a  pinch  of  salt  is  added  to 
them.  If  the  eggs  are  placed  in  cold  water  for  a  time  before  being  broken,  they 
will  whip  easily. 

To  get  the  meats  of  pecan  nuts  whole,  soak  the  pecans  overnight  in  water. 
Next  morning  crack  them  on  the  end.    The  meats  will  come  out  without  breaking. 

Slices  of  lemon,  skin  and  all,  eaten  with  sugar  or  salt,  will  kill  the  odor  of 
onions  on  the  breath. 

If  you  have  no  ice,  and  wish  custards,  gelatines,  etc.  to  ' '  set "  in  a  hurry, 
cover  the  mold  with  a  dish  and  place  it  under  the  hydrant,  allowing  the  cold 
water  to  run  over  it. 

If  the  cream  seems  too  thin  to  whip,  place  the  dish  containing  it  in  another 
dish  of  cold  water,  leaving  it  there  until  it  is  well  chilled.  Then  put  it  into  a 
pan  of  hot  water.    It  will  whip  without  difficulty. 

An  egg  well-beaten,  added  to  rhubarb  pies,  will  thicken  the  rhubarb  and 
improve  the  taste. 

Try  mixing  ginger  cookies  with  cold  coffee  instead  of  water. 

If  a  cream  pie  or  meringue  is  set  at  once  into  a  cold  place  it  is  apt  to 
become  watery.    Keep  it  in  the  kitchen  until  it  is  cold. 

Cream  that  is  too  thin  to  whip  may  be  made  to  do  so  by  adding  the  unbeaten  . 
white  of  an  egg  before  beginning  to  whip  it. 

If  the  white  porcelain  of  the  sink  becomes  stained,  wet  it  and  sprinkle 
chloride  of  lime  into  it.    Let  stand  about  half  and  hour  and  it  will  become  white. 

White  lead  mends  china.  Keep  a  pot  of  it  at  hand,  and  as  soon  as  a  dish 
is  broken  daub  the  cracked  pieces  with  the  white  lead,  using  a  match  to  put  it  on. 
Press  the  edges  firmly  together  and  put  away  for  two  or  three  weeks  to  harden. 
After  a  week  remove  the  extra  lead  sticking  to  the  outside,  but  do  not  use  the 
dish  until  perfectly  hardened. 

Before  tacking  down  linoleum,  let  it  lie  in  place  and  be  walked  on  for  a 
few  days.    This  will  make  it  lie  perfectly  smooth. 

If  boiled  eggs  are  to  be  sliced,  put  them  over  the  fire  in  cold  water  and  let 
them  remain  fifteen  minutes  after  the  water  begins  to  boil.  Let  them  cool  in 
the  same  water.  If  they  are  cooled  by  dropping  them  into  cold  water  they  will 
not  slice  smoothly. 

To  prevent  fruit  pies  from  boiling  over  while  baking,  add  a  tablespoonful 
cornstarch  to  the  fruit.  Sweeten  the  fruit  to  taste,  add  cornstarch  and  heat 
before  adding  the  crust. 

To  keep  mayonnaise  from  curdling,  add  a  teaspoonful  of  cold  Avater  to  egg 
and  beat  thoroughly  before  adding  any  oil. — Mrs.  Geo.  S.  Watkins. 

TO  EEMOVE  TAR.  Put  pure  lard  on  spots  before  laundering. — Mrs.  D.  F. 
Parker. 


70 

USE  DAN  RIVER  SELF-RISING  FLOUR 


For  Dainty  Delicious  Desserts  use  KNOX  GELATINE 


TO  SET  COLOR  IN  GINGHAM  OR  ANY  WASH  MATERIAL.  To  one 
gallon  water,  put  one  level  tea  spoonful  sugar  of  lead  and  put  it  in  before  it  is 
washed. — Mrs.  Isham  King. 

To  remove  fruit  stains  from  white  dresses  or  any  cotton  material,  stretch 
material  across  a  vessel  and  pour  boiling  water  through  it.  Do  this  before 
washing  the  article. — Mrs.  Alvis  Umstead. 

To  bake  sweet  potatoes  in  gas  range,  wash  potatoes,  put  them  in  top  of  the 
oven,  let  gas  burn  thirty  minutes,  then  cut  off,  let  potatoes  remain  in  oven  till 
ready  for  use;  they  will  be  perfectly  done. — Mrs.  M.  S.  Whitted. 

When  a  broom  has  worn  short  and  stubby,  rip  out  -the  stitching  up  to  the 
top  row,  and  this  makes  a  very  good  broom. — Mrs.  M.  F.  Markham. 

To  clean  leather  upholstering  use  sweet  oil,  rubbed  in  well  with  a  soft 
cloth. — Miss  Emily  Griffith. 

To  remove  iron  rust,  dip  in  colutiou  of  oxalic  acid  (dissolved),  then  wash 
immediately. — Mrs.  J.  W.  Bright. 

A  bit  of  cotton  twisted  on  the  end  of  yarn  that  goes  into  the  needle  makes  it 
easier  to  thread. — Mrs.  Constance  Duhling  Stoxe. 

Salt  in  hot  w^ater,  as  a  gargle  Avill  cure  sore  throat. 

Salt  hot  water  will  clear  the  head  and  often  cure  a  cold.  Draw  up  through 
the  nose  and  let  come  out  of  the  mouth,  several  times.  This  is  a  fine  remedy 
for  anyone  suffering  from  a  head  cold. 

Salt  under  the  baking  pans  in  the  oven  Avill  prevent  them  from  scorching 
on  bottom. 

Salt  w^ill  put  fire  out  in  a  burning  chimney. 

Salt  and  vinegar  will  remove  stains  from  discolored  teapots,  cups,  etc. 

Salt  and  soda  will  relieve  the  pain  of  a  bee  sting  or  a  spider  bite. 

Salt  thrown  on  soot  which  has  fallen  on  the  carpet  wUl  prevent  a  stain. 

Salt  put  on  the  carpet  immediately  after  ink  is  spilled  will  help  to  remove 
the  spot. 

Salt  in  white-wash  will  make  it  stick. 

Salt  thrown  on  a  coal  fire  will  help  to  revive  it. 

Salt  used  in  sweeping  carpets  will  keep  out  moths,  and  brighten  it. 

Sow  lettuce  seed  in  porch  box  in  fall  and  you  will  have  early  lettuce  slips 
in  spring.  Cover  and  you  will  have  nice  tender  lettuce  all  winter.  The  lettuce 
will  not  affect  any  bulbs  that  you  might  want  to  plant  in  the  boxes. — Mrs.  E.  G. 
Belvin.  • 

To  give  glassware  a  beautiful  lustre,  peel  a  raw  white  potato,  cut  and  rub 
the  dishes  with  it;  then  wash  and  dry  in  the  usual  way. 

FOR  CLEANING  RUGS  AND  DRUGGETS.  Three  cakes  ivory  soap  (cut 
into  small  pieces)  one  pound  washing  soda,  one  pound  borax,  four  gallons  water. 
Dissolve  this  over  heat  and  it  is  ready  for  use  when  cold.  Rub  on  carpet  thor- 
oughly, after  which  wipe  clean  with  dry  cloth. — Mrs.  B.  H.  Smith. 

TO  STOP  FALLING  HAIR.  Equal  parts  castor  oil  and  alcohol  mixed, 
rubbed  on  the  scalp  several  times  a  day. — Mrs.  B.  H.  Smith. 

71 


USE  DAN  VALLEY  SUPERLATIVE  FLOUR 


Try  KNOX  ACIDULATED  GELATINE  with  the  Lemon  Flavor  enclosed 


TO  CLEAN  TINWARE.  First  wash  the  tin  in  hot  soap  ends  and  wipe 
thoroughly  dry.    Then  scour  it  with  flour  applied  with  an  old  newspaper. 

Nails  can  be  driven  into  hardwood  much  easier  if  they  are  first  rubbed  with 
soap. 

HARD  SOAP.  Material  for  making:  six  pounds  warm  grease,  three  pints 
cold  water,  one  can  Babbitt 's  lye,  one  tablespoonf  ul  sugar,  one-half  cup  ammonia, 
one-half  cup  kerosene,  one-fourth  cup  oil  of  sassafras  or  oil  of  lavender.  Warm 
or  heat  grease  until  thoroughly  melted,  let  stand  over  night  until  settled,  reheat 
and  strain  through  cheese  cloth,  until  clear.  Add  ammonia  to  the  warm  grease. 
Put  lye  in  cold  water,  add  borax,  kerosene  and  sugar.  Let  stand  until  cold 
and  lye  is  dissolved;  pour  lye  very  slowly  to  warm  grease,  and  stir  ten  minutes. 
The  cooler  the  grease,  and  the  lye,  the  sooner  it  will  thicken.  Pour  into  pan 
lined  with  thin  cloth,  or  muslin,  cut  when  thick  as  cheese  and  turn  out  on  brown 
paper.  Put  lavender  or  sassafras  in  after  or  just  before  putting  into  pan.  You 
need  not  put  in  either  the  oil  of  lavender  or  the  sassafras  unless  you  want 
sweet  soap.  This  is  good  soap  for  your  kitchen  and  butler's  pantry. — Mrs.  E.  J. 
Parrish. 

AN  EASY  WAY  TO  CLEAN  SILVER.  Have  a  large  aluminum  kettle  or 
vessel.  Use  one  tablespoonful  baking  soda  to  one  gallon  water.  Put  silver  and 
boil  until  all  discoloration  is  removed.  Take  silver  from  the  vessel,  scald  with 
boiling  water  and  polish  with  a  soft  cloth. — Mrs.  E.  W.  Morris. 

TO  CLEAN  WINDOWS  AND  MIRRORS.  One-half  gallon  water,  one  table- 
spoonful  kerosene  oil;  have  water  as  hot  as  you  can  bear,  add  kerosene.  Wipe 
the  mirror  and  Avindows  with  a  cloth  dampened  with  this  solution.  Let  stand  a 
few  minutes  and  polish. — Mrs.  Bertha  Thompson. 

TO  CLEAN  BATH-TUBS,  ETC.  Instead  of  using  soaps  and  washing 
powders,  for  cleaning  bath-tubs,  lavatories,  etc.,  wet  a  rag  with  kerosene  oil 
and  wipe  the  tub  thoroughly.  Then  polish  with  a  dry  cloth.  Do  not  use  any 
water.  This  takes  away  all  the  spots  as  well  as  dirt,  and  can  be  done  in  one- 
third  the  time. — Mrs.  E.  G.  Belvin. 

TO  CLEAN  A  CORSET.  If  you  wish  to  make  an  old  white  corset  look 
new,  wash  it  in  the  bath  tub  using  a  good  soap  and  scrub  with  the  regular 
scrub  brush.  After  thoroughly  cleaning  the  garment,  make  a  suds  of  some 
reliable  pink  soap  and  dip  the  corset  until  it  is  an  even  flesh.  The  results  are 
wonderful  and  the  life  doubled  in  its  attractive  duration. — Mrs.  P.  T.  Elliott. 


72 

USE  DAN  RIVER  SELF-RISING  FLOUR 


W.  L.  SPAIN 

North  Durham  Meat  Market 

North  Mangum  Street 

Home-Killed  Fresh  Meats,  Fish 
and  Oysters 

The  Market  of  Quality  and  Service 
Phone  952 

D.  C.  MAY 

Painting,  Papering  and 
Decorating 

PHONE  1028 
Office  and  Show^  Rooms,  Five  Points 


Pope  Mattress  Company 

You  spend  one-third  of  your  life  in  bed. 
Why  not  pass  this  time  in  comfort?  The 
Pope  Silk  Floss  mattress — that's  comfort. 
Old  mattresses  made  new. 


Phone  1278.     We  do  the  rest. 
Cor.  Alston  and  Angier  Ave.,     -     -     -     Durham,  N.  C. 


Phone  423  Easy  Teams 

SMITH  &  WILLIAMS 

FURNITURE 

Stoves,  Ranges,  Rugs,  Phonographs,  Shades, 
Refrigerators,  Water  Coolers  and  Ice  Cream 
Freezers. 

109  W.  Chapel  Hill  Street— "Five  Points" 
Durham,  North  Carolina 


Main  Street  Pharmacy  Company 

Agents  Whitman's  Chocolates,  Eastman  Kodaks 
and  Supplies,  Symphony  Lawn  and  Lord 
Baltimore  Stationery 

201  East  Main  Street  Telephones  541  and  553 


C.  D.  KENNY  CO. 

TEAS,  COFFEE,  SUGARS 

"Phone  97 
301  West  Main  Street,  Durham,  N.  C. 


THIS  SPACE  DONATED  BY 


Durham's  Fashionable 
Store  for  Men 


Donated 


Victor  Kaplon 

Ladies'  Ready-to- Wear 
and  Millinery 

Comer  Main  and  Church  Streets 


PASCHALL  BROTHERS 

Plumbing  Contractors 
Repair  Work  a  Specialty.    Prompt  Service, 

Telephone  1136  417  West  Main  Street 


See  Me 
and  See 
Better 


Optical 
Store 

Opposite  P.  0. 

Main  St. 


Do  your  summer  baking  in  one  of  our 

IDEAL  FIRELESS  COOKERS 

Let  us  fit  up  your  Kitchen  with 
a  Majestic  Range  for  the  winter. 
We  handle  the  best  Cooking 
Utensils  you  can  buy.  Wear- 
ever  Aluminum  and  Vollrath 
Enameled  Ware. 

A.  E.  Lloyd  &  Co. 

Near  Five  Points 
Durham,  North  Carolina 


J.  L.  Whitmore 

Bakery  and  Grocery 
Fruit  Cake  a  Specialty 

Phone  1613 
800  North  Mangum  St. 


t^Lue  Joints  SDra^  (So. 

The  Service  Drug  Store 
If  it  is  Drugs  we  have  it 

^Aone  ?50 


We  Keep  Everything  Usually  Found  in  First-Class 
Hardware  Stores 

Popular  Prices,  Polite  Attention  to  All 

PUBLIC  HARDWARE  COMPANY 

107-109  Parrish  Street 

Phone  185  Durham,  N.  C. 


Ask  Your  Grocer  For 

HEALTH  BREAD 

Star  Bakery 


Phone  560 


North  Durham  Drug  Store 

Phone  53 
712  Mangum  St.,  Durham,  N.  C. 


Snider -Fletcher  Company 

JEWELERS 
Repairing  a  Specialty 
Durham,         -         -  -  North  Carolina 


When  You  Want  Good  Bread  Ask  your  Grocer 
for  a  Loaf  of 

SWEET  HOME  BREAD 

D.  D.  RIDDLE 
Home  Bakery  Phone  188 


For  Quick  Work  and 
Good  Service 

Send  to 

The  Durham  Laundry 

PHONE  941-L. 


W.  B.  KIRKLAND 

Fancy  Groceries  and 
Country  Produce 

Phone  268       -       -       801  N.  Mangum  Street 

Electric  Shoe  Shop 

W.  H.  Butler,  Proprietor 

All  Kinds  Fine  Shoe  Repairing 

Rubber  Heels  and  Soles  a  Specialty 
PHONE  782 


D.  M.  Parker  &  Co. 

Watchmakers,  Jewelers,  and  Engravers 
207  W.  Main  St.    -    Phone  1457 


INSURE  WITH  THE 

HOME  INSURANCE  AGENCY 

AND  BE  ASSURED  OF  SERVICE 
"T>ollars  for   Your  Jshes" 
HOME  INSURANCE  AGENCY,  Inc. 

DURHAM,  NORTH  CAROLINA 

PHONE  1045 

JOHN  A.  BUCHANAN  CHAS.  T.  ZUCKERMAN 

President  Secretary 


Cover  Your  House  With 

JOHNS-MANVILLE 

>y~lsi)estos  S/iLn^les 

Heat  It  With  a 

Qaloric  ^ipeless  arnace 

BUDD-PIPER  ROOFING  CO. 

PHONE  490  DURHAM,  N.  C. 


I 


CUT  FLOWERS 

For  Sale 

very  reasonable  through  summer  months 

Phone  555  309  Markham  Street 


PASCHALL  BROTHERS 

Plumbing  Contractors 
Repair  Work  a  Specialty,    Prompt  Service. 

Telephone  1136  417  West  Main  Street 


