Iv^, 


BOSTON  PUBLIC  LIBRARY 


3  9999  07801  039  2 


1 


^.M.i:.: 


•  «^.^^  I^ol*: 


I 


Pys-a  %rjm 


^-%m 


■^  ^i»"&. 


»..^v 


°««:s?^"o^ 


'3^m. 


*-M:^ 


41 


'o)f" 


toob. i^^ 


0^*1-; 


^ 


64 


Isvsued  March  21, 1910, 


U.  S.  DEPARTMENT  OF  AGRICULTURE. 


FARMERS'  BULLETIN  391, 

3 


^06^- 


%l 


ECONOMICAL  USE  OF  MEAT 
IN  THE  HOME. 


•BY 


C.  F.  LANGWORTHY,  Ph.  D., 

Expert  in  Charge  of  Nutrition  Investigations  y 
Office  of  Experiment  Stations, 

/ 

/  AND 

CAROLINE  L.  HUNT,  A.  B., 

Expert  in  Nutrition , 
Office  of  Exp  crimen  t  Stations . 


WASHINGTON: 

GOVERNMENT    PRINTING    OFFICE, 

1910. 


Vw  \     \  ^     \^-  \  \ 


Lii 


,A>-<      \'V. '\?\\^ 
LEHER  OF  TRANSMITTAL. 


U.  S.  Department  of  Agriculture, 

Office  of  Experiment  Stations,     - 
WasJiington,  D.  C,  January  81,  1910, 

Sir:  The  widespread  interest  in  the  most  satisfactory  and  niost 
economical  ways  of  preparing  meat  for  the  table  has  led  to  the  prepa- 
ration, in  accordance  with  your  suggestion,  of  the  accompanying 
summary  of  information  on  the  cheaper  cuts  of  meat  and  inexpensive 
meat  dishes,  which  I  have  the  honor  to  submit  and  recommend  for 
publication  as  a  Farmers'  Bulletin. 

For  many  years  the  relative  nutritive  value  and  ease  and  thorough- 
ness of  digestion  of  the  different  kinds  and  cuts  of  meat,  the  relative 
losses  sustained  when  meat  of  different  kinds  is  cooked  in  various 
ways,  the  proportion  of  meat  used  in  American  homes,  and  similar 
questions  have  been  studied  as  a  part  of  the  nutrition  investigations 
of  the  Office  of  Experiment  Stations.  Furthermore,  general  data 
have  been  compiled  regarding  the  whole  question  of  the  use  of  meat 
as  food.  The  information  thus  secured  and  the  results  of  tests 
especially  undertaken  for  the  purpose  have  been  used  in  prepari^ng 
the  present  bulletin.  Recipes  collected  from  many  sources  have 
been  tested,  and  the  attempt  has  been  made  to  present  the  material 
in  such  a  way  that  it  may  illustrate  the  principles  of  meat  cookery 
for  the  home  table. 

The  production  of  meat  has  always  been  one  of  the  principal  Sub- 
jects which  has  engaged  the  attention  of  the  Department  of  Agri- 
culture, agricultural  colleges,  and  experiment  stations,  while  the 
safeguarding  of  the  meat  supply  by  inspection  is  one  of  the  very 
important  functions  of  the  Bureau  of  Animal  Industry  of  the  Depart- 
ment of  Agriculture.  The  present  bulletin  has  been  prepared  with 
a  view  to  supplementing  this  work  by  pointing  out  the  ways  to  use 
this  important  agricultural  product  when  it  reaches  the  home. 

The  bulletin  v/as  prepared  by  Miss  Caroline  L.  Hunt  and  C.  F. 
Langworthy,  experts  in  charge  of  nutrition  investigations.  The 
recipes  were  collect^^.frpm^  many  sources  and  with  few  exceptions 
were  studied  expcHiilj^ijtVlb! fef  JM^s  Hiinl; *.• :  ;;•• 

Acknowledgment  shoulS'  be'hi^tfe  'to  ^te;ache^-&  o^  home  economics 
in  agricultural  colleges  an2*  c#»-^'  edJAQ&tional  institutions  and  to 
housekeepers  and  pthe/s,  who 'have  supplied  recipes  and  other  data 
of  great  value  in  pjifep^iiife'thj^'buE^in*'.  \;  '•  :  •' . 

Respectfully/'"  *  •«••.•'-.:    '•  V   :     '  i-.A.  C.  True, 

Director. 

Hon.  James  Wilson,  » 

Secretary  of  Agriculture. 
2 
391 


CONTENTS. 

Page. 

Introduction » 5 

Value  of  meat  as  food -^— — ^ 

Proportion  of  different  cuts  and  their  relation  to  meat  prices 8 

Apparent  and  actual  cost  of  meat  in  different  cuts ip, ^ 

Texture  and  flavor  of  meat ►, 12 

General  methods  of  preparing  meat  for  the  table. . .  -^j^^^^- J.3-— 

Reducing  the  expense  for  meat  in  the  diet IG 

Lessening  the  amount  of  meat  used^^'-. Jj^--^  ■' 

Buying  in  quantity  for  home  use ,^ - lS««-« 

'        Utilizing  the  fat,  bone,  and  trimmings  in  meats  and  left-over  cold  meats. .  19 

\               Trying  out  fat -  -. 20- 

j                Clarifying  fat. 20 

Savory  drippings , 20 

1               Uses  for  bones 20 

iMethods  of  extending  the  flavor  of  meat ,SL«— » 

"■        Use  of  dumplings  and  similar  preparations 21 

K               Meat  stew  with  dumplings 21 

Ragout  of  mutton  with  farina  balls 22 

Meat  pies  and  similar  dishes 22 

Twelve  o'clock  pie 23 

Meat  and  tomato  pie "23 

Meat  and  pastry  rolls 23 

Meat  turnovers 23 

Meat  vath  macaroni  and  other  starchy  materials ^4 

Turkish  pilaf , 2?* 

Meat  cakes 24 

Stew  from  cold  roast _24 

Meat  with  beans... .:.!..  .^ .-^ ^|j4^ 

Mexican  beef 25 

Haricot  of  mutton •  25 

Roast  pork  with  cowpeas 25 

Meat  salads _2^-— 

Meat  with  eggs 26 

Roast  beef  with  Yorkshire  pudding 26 

Corned-beef  hash  with  poached  eggs _ . .  26. 

Ham  and  poached  eggs  with  cream  sauce 27 

Stuffing  qcteS^S** 27 

Mock  duck ^27 

Mock  wild  duck 27 

Veal  or  beef  birds 27 

391  3 


4  CONTENTS. 

Page. 

Utilizing  the  cheaper  cuts  of  meat  in  palatable  dishes 28 

Prolonged  cooking  at  low  heat 28 

y      Stewed  shin  ®f  beef 29 

Boiled  beef  with  horse-radish  sauce 29 

Scotch  broth 29 

Stuffed  heart 29 

Braised  beef,  pot  roast,  and  beef  ^  la  mode 29 

Bean-pot  roast 30 

Hungarian  goulash ' 30 

Casserole  cookery 30 

^^"""^      Casserole  roast 31 

Casserole  or  Italian  hash 31 

Meat  cooked  with  vinegar 31 

""^       Sour  beef 31 

Sour  beefsteak 31 

Pounded  meat 31 

^''    Farmer  stew 32 

Spanish  beefsteak 32 

Chopped  meat 32 

Tough  portions  of  porterhouse  steak 33 

•^'^      Hamburg  steak 33 

Savory  rolls 33 

Canneion  of  beef ZA 

Filipino  beef. 34 

Mock  rabbit 34 

Veal  loaf 35 

Developing  and  improving  flavor  of  meat 35 

Retaining  natural  flavor 85 

Round  steak  on  biscuits 35 

Flavor  of  browned  meat  or  fat. 36 

-^  Salt  pork  with  milk  gravy 36 

Fried  salt  pork  with  codfish  or  ' '  salt-fish  dinner  " 36 

Flavoring  vegetables,  herbs,  spices,  etc 37 

'^'  India  curry „ 33 

Curry  of  veal 39 

Sauces 39 

Mock  venison 40 

Summary 40 

391 


k 


ECONOMICAL  USE  OF  MEAT  IN  THE  HOME, 


IHTEODUCTIOir. 

Owing  to  its  wide  range  of  climate  and  soil  the  United  States  pro- 
duces the  staple  foods  in  great  variety  and  abundance,  as  well  as  many 
of  those  which  are  usually  termed  ^^  luxuries."  For  this  and  for  other 
reasons  the  problem  of  selecting  an  ample  and  pleasing  diet  is  a  sim- 
pler one  than  in  many  countries  where  food  materials  are  less  plenti- 
fully produced. 

The  foods  used  to  give  variety  to  the  diet  vary  with  time,  place, 
and  circumstances,  but  the  staple  foods  the  country  over  are  cereal 
grains  and  their  products,  meat,  dairy  products,  eggs,  and  the  more 
usual  vegetables  and  fruits.  According  to  the  results  of  a  large  num- 
ber of  carefully  conducted  studies  in  American  homes,  it  appears' 
that  meat  and  poultry  supply  16  per  cent  of  the  total  food  niateriai,^\ 
30  per  cent  of  the  prot^jn^  ^nd_59  per  cent  of  the  fat  in  the  average 
American  dietary  ;ffiiry  products,  18  pei^ceSF^TEeToT^"^  ^ 

per  cent  of  the  total  protein,  26  per  cent  of  the  total  fat,  and  4  per| 
cent  of  the  total  carbohydrates;  cereals  and  their  products,  81  pei 
cent  of  the  total  food  material,  43  per  cent  of  the  total  protein,  9  per'* 
cent  of  the  total  fat,  and  62  per  cent  of  the  total  carbohydrates;  and 
vegetables  and  fruits  together,  254)m'jcentjiLt];ie^ota^  9  per  cent 

of  the  total  protein,  2  per  cent  of  the  total  fat,  and  16  per  cent  of  the 
total  carbohydrates.  These  figures  indicate  clearly  the  relation 
which  the  principal  agricultural  products  must  of  necessity  bear  to 
home  problems.  It  is  evident  that  the  utilL^ation  of  these  staple 
foods  to  the  best  advantage  is  of  great  importance  to  every  house- 
keeper. 

Many  problems  connected  with  the  nutritive  value  of  these  staple 
agricultural  products,  their  preparation  for  the  table,  digestibility, 
palatability,  and  the  hygienic  and  economic  aspects  of  the  question 
have  been  studied  in  connection  with  the  nutrition  investigations  of 
the  Office  of  Experiment  Stations,  and  some  of  the  data  thus  collected 
is  here  brought  together  in  a  discussion  of  the  economical  use  of  meat 
in  the  home.  * 

VALUE  OF  MEAT  AS  FOOD. 

Considering  the  fact  that  meat  forms  such  an  important  part  of  the 
diet  and  the  further  fact  that  the  price  of  meat,  as  of  other  foods,  has 
advanced  in  recent  years,  it  is  natural  for  housekeepers  to  seek  more 

5 

391 


b  ECONOMICAL  USE   OF   MEAT  IN   THE   HOME. 

economical  methods  of  preparing  meat  for  the  table,  and  to  turn 
their  thoughts  toward  the  less  expensive  cuts  and  ask  what  economy  is 
involved  in  their  us3,  how  they  may  be  prepared,  and  whether  the  less 
expensive  dishes  are  as  nutritious  and  as  thoroughly  and  easily 
digested  as  the  costlier  ones. 

The  value  of  meat  as  food  depends  chiefly  on  the  presence  of  two 
classes  of  nutrients,  (1)  protein  or  nitrogenous  compounds,  and  (2) 
fat.  The  mineral  matter  it  contains,  particularly  the  phosphorus  com- 
pounds, is  also  of  much  importance,  though  it  is  small  in  quantity. 
Protein  is  essential  for  the  construction  and  maintenance  of  the  body 
and  both  protein  and  fat  yield  energy  for  muscular  power  and  for 
keeping  up  the  temperature  of  the  body.  Fat  is  especially  important 
as  a  source  of  energy.  It  is  possible  to  combine  the  fat  and  protein 
of  animal  foods  so  as  to  meet  the  requirements  of  the  body  with  such 
materials  onl}^,  and  this  is  done  in  the  Arctic  regions,  where  vegetable 
food  is  lacking;  but  in  general  it  is  considered  that  diet  is  better  and 
more  wholesome  when,  in  addition  to  animal  foods,  such  as  meat, 
which  is  rich  in  proteins  and  fats,  it  contains  vegetable  foods,  w^hich 
are  richest  in  sugar,  starch,  and  other  carbohydrates.  Both  animal 
and  vegetable  foods  supply  the  mineral  substances  which  are  essential 
to  body  growth  and  development.  In  meat  mineral  matter  con- 
stitutes about  0.3  to  1.9  per  cent  on  an  average  of  the  total  fresh 
material. 

The  composition  of  the  various  cuts  of  meat  and  similar  topics 
have  been  discussed  in  more  detail  in  an  earlier  bulletin  of  this  series.® 
The  general  differences  between  the  various  cuts  are  shown  in  the 
followiag  table: 

Average  composition  of  edible  portion  of  different  cuts  of  meat. 


Kind  of  meat. 


Water. 

Protein. 

Fat. 

Ash.     , 

Per  cent. 

Per  cent. 

Per  cent. 

Per  cent. 

54.6 

15.8 

28.5 

■      0.9 

C6.8 

19.0 

13.4 

1.0 

59.3 

19.6 

21.1 

.9 

60.0 

21.9 

20.4 

1.0 

66.3 

20.7 

12.7 

1.0 

67.0 

17.8 

24.6 

.9 

07.8 

20.9 

10.6 

1.1 

70.3 

21.4 

8.1 

.9 

62.2 

18.8 

18.8 

.9 

71.3 

20.2 

8.1 

1.0 

63.6 

16.2 

29.8 

.8 

58.2 

17.6 

23.1 

1.1 

06.5 

18.9 

13.0 

1.0 

60.7 

16.4 

32.0 

.9 

Fuel 
value  per 
pound. 


Beef: 

Brisket 

Chuck  rib 

Flank , 

Porterhouse 

Neck 

Ribs 

Round 

Shank 

Side 

Veal:  Side,  wioL  kidney,  fat,  and  tallow 

Mutton:  Side,  witliout  tallow 

Lamb:  Side,  without  tailow 

Pork: 

Tenderloin 

Chops 


Ckilories. 
1,495 

920 
1.255 
1:270 

920 
1, 370 

835 

740 
1,145 

715 
1,560 
1,300 

900 
1,055 


It  v/ill  be  noted  that  the  difference  between  the  cuts  is  chiefly  in 
the  amount  of  the  fat  and  consequently  in  the  fuel  value.     So  far  as  the 


aU.  S.  Dept.  Agr,,  Farmers'  Bui.  34. 


ECONOMICAL  USE   OF   MEAT  IN    THE   HOME.  1 

proteing^afe  concerned,  i.  e.,  the  substances  which  build  and  repaif^^  .^jj, 
the  important  tissues  of  the  body,  very  Httle  difference  is  found  in  the 
items  included  in  the  table,  the  maximum  being  21.9  in  porterhouse 
steak  and  the  minimum  15.8  in  brisket  of  beef,  a  range  which  is 
not  especially  significant  when  the  total  quantity  of  meat  protein 
in  the  ordinary  diet  is  taken  into  account.  For  all  practical  every- 
day purposes,  therefore,  it  may  be  considered  that  the  protein  ob- 
tained from  a  given  weight  of  meat  differs  veiy  little  either  with  the 
kind  of  meat  or  the  cut.  The  fattest  portions  of  pork,  which  are 
used  for  salt  pork  or  cured  pork  and  bacon,  are  exceptions,  and  in 
such  cuts  the  proteins  may  be  as  low  as  8  or  9  per  cent. 

This  general  uniformity  in  proportion  of  protein  makes  it  easy  for 
the  housekeeper  who  does  not  wish  to  enter  into  the  complexities  of 
food  values  to  make  sure  that  her  family  is  getting  enough  of  this 
nutrient.  From  the  investigations  carried  on  in  the  OflLice  of  Experi- 
ment Stations  the  conclusion  has  been  drawn  that  of  the  total  amount 
of  protein  needed  every  day,  which  is  usually  estimated  to  be  100 
grams  or  3  J  ounces,®  one-half  or  50  grams  is  taken  in  the  form  of  animal 
food,  which  of  course  includes  milk,  eggs,  poultry,  fish,  etc.,  as  well 
as  meat.  The  remainder  is  taken  in  the  form  of  bread  and  other 
cereal  foods  and  beans  and  other  vegetables.  The  portion  of  cooked 
meat  which  may  be  referred  to  as  an  ordinary  ^^  helping,"  3  to  5 
ounces  (equivalent  to  3|  to  5f  ounces  of  raw  meat),  may  be  consid- 
ered to  contain  some  19  to  29  grams  of  protein,  or  approximately  half 
of  the  amount  which  is  ordinarily  secured  from  animal  food.  An  egg 
or  a  glass  of  milk  contains  about  8  grams  more,  so  the  housekeeper 
who  gives  each  adult  member  of  her  family  a  helping  of  meat  each  day 
and  eggs,  milk,  or  cheese,  together  with  the  puddings  or  other  dishes 
Vv^hich  contain  eggs  and  milk,  can  feel  sure  that  she  is  supplying  suffi- 
cient protein,  for  the  remainder  necessary  will  be  supplied  by  bread, 
cereals,  and  other  vegetable  food. 

The  food  value  of  any  material  of  course  depends  upon  the  amount 
of  its  nutrients  which  the  digestive  organs  can  make  available  for  the 
use  of  the  body  as  well  as  upon  its  chemical  composition^  hence 
digestibility  must  be  considered  in  comparing "drfferelt^  Rinds  of  food. 
The  question  whether  the  cheaper  cuts  prepared  by  the  longer  method 
are  as  thoroughly  and  as  easily  digested  as  the  better  cuts  broiled  ot\ 
roasted  has  been  satisfactorily  answered  by  work  which  has  been/ 
done  as  part  of  the  nutrition  investigations  of  the  Office  of  Experi- 
ment Stations.^  The  results  obtained  show  that,  so  far  at  least  as 
present  knowledge  is  concerned,  there  is  practically  no  difference 
between  the  various  cuts  of  meat  or  the  meats  from  different  animals 

a  One  ounce  equals  28  grams. 

6U.  S.  Dept.  Agr.,  Office  of  Expt.  Stas.  Buls.  14^ ,  102,  and  103. 
391 


8  ECONOMICAL  USE   OF   MEAT  IN   THE   HOME. 

with  respect  to  either  the  thoroughness  or  the  ease  with  which  they 
are  digested.  Over  95  per  cent  of  the  protein  and  of  the  fat  of  all 
kinds  and  cuts  of  meat  is  digested  by  the  body  under  normal  condi- 
tions, which  means  that  meat  is  a  very  thoroughly  assimilated  food 
and  that  there  are  no  marked  differences  in  the  thoroughness  with 
which  different  sorts  are  digested.  The  experimenters  say:  *^It  is 
commonly  said  that  meats  of  different  sorts  vary  decidedly  in  digesti- 
bility; for  instance,  that  red  meat  is  less  digestible  than  white  meat, 
or  pork  than  beef,  or  that  a  cheaper  cut  is  less  digestible  than  a  tender 
steak.  As  regards  the  thoroughness  of  digestion,  the  results  of  the 
extended  series  of  tests  reported  show  that  such  differences  do  not 
exist  in  any  appreciable  degree  and  that  meat  of  all  kinds  and  cuts  is 
to  be  classed  with  the  very  digestible  foods."  Therefore,  those  whp 
wish  to  use  the  cheaper  cuts  need  not  feel  that  in  so  doing  their  fami- 
lies are  less  well  nourished  than  by  the  more  expensive  meats. 

PEOPOETIOI^^  OF  DIFFEEENT  CUTS  AFD  THEIR  RELATION  TO 

MEAT  PRICES. 

The  price  which  the  producer  receives  for  the  animal  he  has  fattened 
for  market  must  of  necessity  be  a  determining  factor  in  fixing  the 
price  of  meat  which  the  consumer  pays.  The  producer's  price  varies 
with  a  variety  of  conditions,  inciuding  the  cost  of  grain  used  in  feeding 
animals,  the  rates  of  transportation,  and  other  factors.  The  animal 
is  usually  marketed  by  the  produ<5er  at  so  much  a  pound  on  the  basis 
of  live  v/eight  or  of  dressed  weight.  From  the  results  of  a  large  num- 
ber of  experimental  tests  at  the  agricultural  experiment  stations  and 
data  recorded  by  abattoirs  and  packing  houses,  the  relation  of 
dressed  to  live  weight  has  been  ascertained,  the  dressed  weight  in  the 
case  of  beef  animals  being  on  an  average  62  to  67  per  cent  of  the  live 
weight.  The  number  and  kind  of  cuts  into  which  the  dressed  carcass 
is  divided  vary  somevf  hat  in  different  markets,  though  there  is  a  greater 
tendency  to  uniformity  in  the  United  States  than  was  once  the  case. 
In  general,  the  cuts  correspond  to  the  anatomical  structure  of  the 
animal  and  to  the  character  of  the  muscular  tissue. 

The  agricultural  experiment  stations  in  Iowa,  Kansas,  Minnesota, 
Illinois,  and  most  of  the  other  States  have  studied  a  variety  of  prob- 
lems connected  with  the  production  of  farm  animals  for  market 
and  have  contributed  much  data  of  interest  in  connection  with  such 
problems.  On  the  basis  of  investigations  like  those  referred  to,  it  has 
been  found  that  on  an  average  in  the  case  of  beef  animals  the  ribs 
constitute  9  per  cent  of  the  total  dressed  weight,  the  loins  19  per  cent, 
the  chucks  (with  shoulder,  neck,  and  brisket)  27  per  cent,  the  plates 
13  per  cent,  the  shanks  3  per  cent,  the  rounds  (including  rump)  23 
per  cent,  the  flanks  3  per  cent,  and  the  suet  3  per  cent. 

391 


ECONOMICAL  USE   OF   MEAT   IN   THE   HOME.  9' 

The  muscular  tissue  which  has  been  most  concerned  in  the  muscular 
work  which  the  animal  has  performed  is  less  tender  than  that  which 
has  been  less  used  and  differences  in  flavor  are  also  influenced  by  similar 
causes.  It  naturally  follows,  therefore,  that  the  different  cuts  of 
meat  are  not  considered  equally  desirable;  consequently,  when  cut  up 
by  the  market  man,  the  different  cuts  sell  for  a  variety  of  prices. 

In  commercial  transactions  some  percentage  of  advance  in  the  sell- 
ing over  the  buying  price  must  be  expected  if  the  dealer  is  to  be  suc- 
cessful, and  such  factors  as  the  cost  of  handling,  storing,  marketing,^ 
and  possible  deterioration  during  storage  must  be  taken  into  account.  \ 
The  relation  of  such  factors  to  particular  cases  is  of  fundamental'^ 
importance  in  understanding  commercial  transactions. 

The  simplest  method  of  fixing  market  prices  would  doubtless  be  to  • 
determine  upon  a  reasonable,  percent  age  of  increase  which  would  be 
the  same  for  all  cuts.     Such  a  custom  has  been  followed  in  many 
localities.     For  instance,  it  was  at  one  time  the  common  practice  in  \ 
markets  in  Cuba  and  Mexico,  particularly  in  small  towns,  to  sell  they 
whole  carcass  at  a  uniform  price  per  pound,  a  custom  still  followed;^«r 
but  which  does  not  long  survive  in  a  locality  much  influenced  by  out4- 
side  conditions.     In  the  United  States,  as  every  one  knows,  the  price 
varies  with  the  kind  of  meat  and  with  the  cut. 

When  the  wholesale  dealer  buys  meat  from  the  producer  he  pays 'j 
a  certain  uniform  price  perjooiLnd^ior  the  carcass  on  the  basis  of  r 
either  live  or  dressed  weight.     In  determining  upon  the  advance-- 
over  cost  price  which  is  to  be  his  selling  price,  it  is  customary  to  take 
into  account  the  fact  that  the  carcass  is  made  up  of  a  niunber  bf  cuts 
and  that  some  of  them  are  considered  more  desirable  than  others  and  j^, 
will  therefore  sell  for  a  higher  price.     So  it  is  a  common  custom  to  j 
assume  that  the  more  desirable  cuts  have  cost  a  higher  price  and 
that  the  less  sought  after  cuts  have  cost  a  lower  price  than  the  uni- 
form price  which  was  actually  paid  per  pound  for  the  carcass.     In; 
other  words,  the  wholesaler  distributes  his  original  total  cost  in  a 
manner  convenient  from  a  commercial  standpoint  for  making  selling 
prices.     Thus,  as  an  illustration,  if  the  carcass  which  was  purchased 
at  a  uniform  price  of  10  cents  per  pound  be  assumed  to  supply  10 
pounds  of  some  choice  cut  and  10  pounds  of  some  cheaper  cut,  the 
assumption  might  be  made  that  the  choice  cut  cost  15  cents  per 
pound  and  the  cheaper  cut  5  cents  per  pound,  without  changing  the 
total  sum  paid  for  both  at  the  assumed  uniform  purchase  price. 

The  table  f ollomng,  which  is  based  upon  a  considerable  amount  of  J 
data  collected  in  connection  with  Department  of  Agriculture  work,  r 
summarizes  information  of  this  sort  and  shows  the  estimated  cost  toy 
the  wholesaler  of  the  different  cuts  of  beef  when  the  carcass  is  purf^ 
chased  dressed  at  a  uniform  price  ranging  from  4f  to  8  cents  per 
28449— Bull.  391—10 2 


10 


ECONOMICAL  USE   OF   MEAT  IN   THE   HOME. 


pound.     In  distributing  the  total  cost  the  weight  of  the  different  cuts 
is  of  course  taken  into  account. 

Estimated  cost  to  the  wholesaler  of  different  cuts  when  the  carcass  is  pwchased  at  certain 
prices  per  pound,  dressed  weight. 


Estimated  cost  of  cut. 

Assumed  sale 

price  per  pound 

of  carcass. 

Ribs. 

Loins. 

Chucks. 

Plates. 

Shanlcs. 

Bounds. 

Flanks. 

Suet. 

Cents. 

Cents. 

Cents. 

Cents. 

Cents. 

Cents. 

.  Ccnis. 

Cents. 

Cents. 

4f 

7 

8 

H 

2\ 

2 

41 

3 

3 

5 

7^ 
71 

9 

4 

3 

2 

5 

3 

3 

5i 

9i 

4 

3i 

2 

5 

3 

3 

5 

8 

10 

4 

3. 

2 

5 

3 

3 

51 

81 

lOJ 

il 

3* 

2 

? 

3 

3 

6 

9 

11 

41 
4f 

3^ 

2 

3 

3 

61 

9^ 

12 

3i 

2 

3 

3 

^ 

10 

12^ 

4f 

3: 

2 

1 

3 

3 

7 

11 

14 

5 

3^ 

2 

3 

3 

n 

12^ 

15 

5| 

3f 

^ 

3 

3 

8" 

14 

16 

6§ 

4 

3 

^ 

4 

4 

tx 


It  is  upon  such  data  as  the  above  table  presents  that  the  retail 
prices  of  meat  are  based  theoretically,  though  of  course  many  other 
factors,  which  vary  with  circumstances,  must  also  be  taken  into 
account. 

lNd  actual  cost  of  meat  in  different  cuts. 


The  relative  retail  prices  of  the  various  cuts  usually  bear  a  direct 
relation  to  the  favor  with  which  they  are  regarded  by  the  majority  of 
persons,  the  juicy  tender  cuts  of  good  flavor  selling  for  the  higher 
prices.  When  porterhouse  steak  sells  for  25  cents  a  pound,  it  may  be 
assumed  that  in  town  or  village  markets  round  steak  would  ordinarily 
sell  for  about  1 5  cents,  and  chuck  ribs,  one  of  the  best  cuts  of  the  fore- 
quarter,  for  10  cents.  This  makes  it  appear  that  the  chuck  ribs  are 
less  than  half  as  expensive  as  porterhouse  steak  and  two-thirds  as 
expensive  as  the  round.  But  apparent  economy  is  not  always  real 
economy,  and  in  this  case  the  bones  in  the  three  cuts  should  be 
taken  into  account.  Of  the  chuck  ribs,  more  than  one-half  is  bone 
or  other  materials  usuaMy  classed  under  the  head  of  'Vaste"  or 
'^refuse."  Of  the  round,  one-twelfth  is  waste,  and  of  the  porterhouse 
one-eighth.  In  bu3dng  the  chuck,  then,  the  housewife  gets,  at  the 
prices  assumed,  less  than  one-half  pound  of  food  for  10  cents,  making 
the  net  price  of  the  edible  portion  22  cents  a  pound;  in  buying  round, 
she  gets  eleven-twelfths  of  a  pound  for  15  cents,  making  the  net  value 
about  16 J  cents;  in  buying  porterhouse,  she  gets  seven-eighths  of  a 
pound  for  25  cents,  making  the  net  value  about  28 J  cents  a  pound. 
The  relative  prices,  therefore,  of  the  edible  portions  are  22,  16},  and 
28}  cents;    or  to  put  it  in  a  different  way,  a  dollar   at  the  prices 

391 


ECONOMICAL   USE   OF   MEAT   IN   THE   HOME. 


11 


assumed  will  buy  4J  pounds  of  solid  meat  from  the  cut,  known  as 
chuck,  6  pounds  of  such  meat  from  the  round,  and  only  SJ  pounds  of 
such  meat  from  the  porterhouse.  To  this  should  be  added  the  fact 
that  because  of  the  wp.y  in  w^hich  porterhouse  is  usually  cooked  no 
nutriment  is  obtained  from  the  bone,  while  by  the  long  slow  process 
by  which  the  cheaper  cuts,  except  when  they  are  broiled  or  fried,  are 
prepared  the  gelatin,  fat,  and  flavoring  material  of  the  bone  are  ex- 
tracted. The  bones  of  meats  that  are  cooked  in  water,  thsrefore,  are 
in  a  sense  not  all  refuse,  for  they  contain  some  food  which  may  be 
secured  by  proper  cookery. 

It  is  true,  of  course,  that  the  bones  of  the  steaks  may  be  used  for 
soup  making,  and  that  the  nourishment  may  thus  be  utilized,  but  this 
must  be  done  by  a  separate  process  from  that  of  cooking  the  steak 
itself. 

The  facts  discussed  above  are  shown  for  a  larger  number  of  kinds  of 
meat  in  the  following  table,  which  gives  the  proportion  of  bone  and 
edible  material  in  a  number  of  cuts,  together  with  the  net  price  as 
compared  with  an  assumed  original  price.  As  the  cost  of  meat  varies 
in  different  regions,  in  different  markets,  and  at  different  times,  it  is 
impossible  to  give  values  which  will  represent  a  fair  average  market 
price.  Those  included  in  the  table  are  simply  selected  to  illustrate 
the  point  under  consideration. 


Net  cost  of  edible  portion  of 


cv.ts  as  compared  with  assumed  marJcet  price  <^  per 
pound. 


Kind  of  meat. 


Proportion 

Proportion 

Assumed 

of  bone 

of  edible 

market 

or  waste 

material 

price  per 

in  cut. 

iu  cut. 

pound. 

Per  cent. 

Per  cent. 

Cents. 

23.3 

76.7 

7.0 

19.0 

81.0 

10.0 

5.5 

99.5 

7.0 

53.8 

46.2 

10.0 

12.7 

87.3 

20.0 

31.2 

68.8 

7.0 

20.1 

79.9 

15.0 

8.5 

91.5 

15.0 

38.3 

61.7 

3.0 

5.9 

94.1 

5.0 

2G.5 

73.5 

22.0 

3.4 

96.6 

20.0 

24.5 

75.5 

12.5 

17.7 

82.3 

15.0 

14.8 

85.2 

15.0 

21.2 

78.8 

12.5 

19.3 

80.7 

15.0 

8.1 

91.9 

12.5 

8.7 

91.3 

20.0 

12.2 

87.8 

20.0 

Net  price 

per  pound 

of  edible 

portion. 


Beef: 

Brisket 

Rump 

Flank 

Chuck  rib 

Porterhouse 

Neck 

Ribs 

Round 

Shin 

Heart 

Tongue 

Veal: 

Cutlets 

Breast 

Mutton: 

Leg 

Chops.'. 

Forequarter  cut  for  stewing 
Pork: 

Loin 

Salt  pork 

lam 

a  Prices  vary  greatly  in  different  x^arts  of  the  country 
Ing  It  possible  to  compare  nominal  with  net  prices. 

391   / 

/ 


Cents. 


0     / 

I'i 

0 
0 


21.0 
17.0 

18.0 
17.5 
20.  Oi 

20.0 
13,0 
2i{0 
33.0 


These  prices  are  assumed  for  the  purix)se  of  mak- 


12  ECONOMICALr  USE  OF   MEAT  IN   THE   HOME. 

TEXTUEE  AND  FLAVOE  OF  MEAT. 

Although  meats  vary  greatly  in  the  amount  of  fat  which  they 
contain  and  to  a  much  less  degree  in  their  protein  content,  the.chief 
difference  to  be  noted  between  the  cheaper  and  more  expensive  cuts 
is  not  so  much  in  their  nutritive  value  as  in  their  texture  and  flavor. 
All  muscle  consists  of  tiny  fibers  which  under  the  microscope  are 

'  seen  to  have  the  form  of  tubes.  These  fibers  are  tender  in  young 
animals  and  in  those  parts  of  older  animals  in  Vvhich  there  has  been 
little  muscular  strain.  Under  the  backbone  in  the  hind  quarter  is 
the  place  from  which  the  tenderest  meat  comes.  This  is  usually 
calleid  the  tenderloin.  Sometimes  in  beef  and  also  in  pork  it  is  taken 
out  whole  and  sometimes  it  is  left  to  be  cut  up  with  the  rest  of  the 
loin.  In  old  animals,  and  in  those  parts  of  the  body  where  there 
has  been  much  muscular  action,  the  neck  and  the  legs  for  example, 
the  muscle  fibers  are  tough  and  hard.  But  there  is  another  point 
which  is  of  even  greater  importance  than  this.  The  fibers  cf  all 
muscle  ara  bound  together  in  bundles  and  in  groups  of  bundles  by  a 
thin  membrane  which  is  known  as  connective  tissue.  This  mem- 
brane, if  heated  in  water  or  steam  is  converted  into  gelatin.  The 
process  goes  quickly  if  the  meat  is  young  and  tender;  more  slowly 
if  it  is  tough.  Connective  tissue  is  also  soluble  in  acetic  acid,  that 
acid  to  which  the  sourness  of  vinegar  is  due.  For  this  reason  it  is 
possible  to  make  meat  more  tender  by  soaking  it  in  vinegar  or  in 
vinegar  and  v/ater,  the  proportions  of  the  two  depending  on  the 
strength  of  the  vinegar.  Sour  beef  or  "sauer  fieisch,^'  as  it  is  known 
to  Germans,  is  a  palatable  dish  of  this  sort  for  which  the  recipe  is 
given  elsewhere.  (Seep.  31.)  Since  vinegar  is  a  preservative  this 
suggests  a  method  by  v/hich  a  surplus  of  beef  may  be  kept  for  several 
days  and  then  converted  into  a  palatable  dish. 
^'  In  a  study  of  factors  which  influence  tenderness,  Lehmann  ^  and 
his  associates  measured  experimentally  the  relative  tenderness  of 
raw  meat  of  different  kinds  and  cuts  from  old  and  young  animals, 

^  the  effect  of  hanging  and  freezing  upon  tenderness,  and  also  the  effects 
)  of  cooking.     According  to  his  summary,  the  toughness  or  tenderness 

V  of  the  individual  meat  fibers  is  a  matter  of  the  location  of  the  cut, 
and  his  measurements  showed  that  the  raw  fibers  from  an  exterior 
cut  (flank)  were  almost  two  and  a  half  times  as  tough  as  those  from 
an  interior  cut  (tenderloin). 

^Jn  the  case  of  veal,  the  two  sorts  of  cuts  showed  the  same  general 
differences  as  beef,  but  in  a  greater  degree.  The  muscle  fibers  of 
mutton  and  pork,  according  to  the  experimental  data  which  Leh- 
mann cites,  were  in  general  more  tender  than  beef. 

a  Arch.  Hyg.,  63  (1907),  p.  134 . 
391 


ECONOMICAL  USE  OF  MEAT  IN  THE   HOME.  13 

Flavor  in  meat  depends  mainly  on  certain  nitrogenous  substances 
which  are  called  extractives  because  they  can  be  dissolved  out  or" 
"extracted''  by"  saaEmg  the  meat  in  cold  water.     The  quality  of 
the  extractives  and  the  resulting  flavor  of  the  meat  vary  with  the 
condition  of  the  animal  and  in  different  parts  ofdts  body.     They 
are  usually  considered  better  developed  in  older  than  in  very  young 
animals.     Many  persons  suppose  extractives  or  the  flavor  they  cause, 
are  best  in  the  most  expensive  cuts  of  meat;  in  reality,  cuts  on  the 
side  of  beef  are  often  of  better  flavor  than  tender  cuts,  but  owing 
to  the  difflculty^oljm^tication  this^iact--is  frequently,  not  detected. 
The  extractives  have  little^^Fno  nutritive  value  in  themselves,  but 
they  are  of  great  importance  in  causing  the  secretion  of  digestive 
juices  at  the  proper  time^iiL„the  right  am6unt7ISi-<>f  the  right 
chemical  character.     The  digestive  tract  may  be  likened  to  a  piece 
of  machinery  vvhicli  is  beautifully  built  and  adjusted  and  is  ready  to 
run  and  turn  out  its  product  as  soon  as  a  lever  is  moved  which  sets 
it  in  motion.     The  flavoring  bodies  of  food,  and  especially  those 
contained  in  meat,  can  be  likened  to  the  lever  which  sets  the  ma- 
chinery in  motion.     Excitants  to  normal  digestion  are  supplied  by 
other  foods  as  well,  but  meats,  so  physiologists  believe,  are  especially    / 
important  for  the  purpose.     It  is  this  quality  which  justifies  the  / 
taking  of  soup  at  the  beginning  of  a  meal  and  the  giving  of  broths,  I 
meat  extracts,  and  similar  preparations  to  invalids  and  weak  persons.    \ 
These  foods  have  little  nutritive  material  in  themselves  but  they   j 
are  great  aids  to  the  digestion  of  other  foods.  / 

The  amount  of  the  extractives  which  will  be  brought  out  into  the 
water  when  meat  is  boiled  depends  upon  the  size  of  the  pieces  into 
which  the  meat  is  cut  and  on  the  length  of  time  they  are  soaked  in 
cold  water  before  being  heated.  A  good  way  to  hinder  the  escape 
of  the  flavoring  matter  is  to  sear  the  surface  of  the  meat  quickly  by 
heating  it  in  fat,  or  the  same  end  may  be  attained  by  plunging  it  into 
boiling  water.  Such  facts  are  known  to  all  cooks  and  have  recently 
been  studied  systematically  at  the  lUinois  Experiment  Station  in 
relation  to  the  amounts  removed  and  the  losses  which  may  be  involved 
in  different  methods  of  cookery.  Such  solubility  is  taken  advantage 
of  in  making  beef  tea  at  home  and  in  the  manufacture  of  meat 
extract,  the  extracted  material  being  finally  concentrated  by  evapor- 
ating the  water. 

GENERAL  METHODS  OF  PREPARING  MEAT  FOR  THE  TABLE. 

The  advantages  of  variety  in  the  methods  of  preparing  and  serving 
are  to  be  considered  even  more  seriously  in  the  cooking  of  the  cheaper 
cuts  than  in  the  cooking  of  the  more  expensive  ones,  and  yet  even 
in  this  connection  it  is  a  mistake  to  lose  sight  of  the  fact  that,  though 

391 


14  ECONOMICAL  USE   OF   MEAT   IN   THE   HOME. 

there  is  a  great  variety  of  dishes,  the  processes  involved  are  few  in 
number. 

An  experienced  teacher  of  cooking,  a  woman  who  has  made  very 

valuable  contributions  to  the  art  of  cookery  by  showing  that  most 

of  the  numerous  processes  outlined  and  elaborately  described  in  the 

cook  books  can  be  classified  under  a  very  few  heads,  says  that  she 

ttries  '^to  reduce  the  cooking  of  meat  to  its  lowest  terms  and  teach 

only  three  ways  of  cooking.     The  first  is  the  application  of  intense 

heat  to  keep  in  the  juices.     This  is  suitable,  only  for  portions  of  clear 

meat  where  the  fibers  are  tender.     By  the  second  method  the  meats 

are  put  in  cold  water  and  cooked  at  a  low  temperature.     This  is 

suitable  for  bone,  gristle,  and  the  toughest  portions  of  the  meat 

J    which  for  this  purpose  should  be  divided  into  small  bits.     The  third 

<'      is  a  combination  of  these  two  processes  and  consists  of  searing  and 

then  stewing  the  meat.     This  is    suitable  for  halfway  cuts,  i.   e., 

;     those  that  are  neither  tender  nor  very  tough. ''     The  many  varieties  of. 

^ meat  dishes  are  usually  only  a  matter  of  flavor  and  garnish. 

In  other  words,' of  the  three  processes  the  first  is  the  short  method; 
it  aims  to  keep  all  the  juices  within  the  meat.  The  second  is  a  very 
■long  method  employed  for  the  purpose  of  getting  all  or  most  of  the 
juices  cut.  The  third  is  a  combination  of  the  two  not  so  long  as  the 
second  and  yet  requiring  so  much  time  that  there  is  danger  of  the 
meat  being  rendered  tasteless  unless  certain  precautions  are  taken 
such  as  searing  in  hot  fat  or  plunging  into  boiling  water. 

It  is  commonly  said  that  the  cooked  meat  fibers  are  harder  or  less 
tender  than  the  raw,  which  seems  a  natural  assumption  since  the 
meat  protein,  like  egg  albumen,  is  coagulated  by  heat,  and  further-  ■ 
more,  the  water  is  forced  out  from  the  individual  muscle  fibers  and^ 
they  are  shortened  and  thickened  by  the  application  of  heat. 
Apparently,  however,  such  general  deductions  must  be  modified  on 
the  basis  of  the  experimental  data  obtained  in  Lehmann's  "  labora- 
tory, for  he  found  marked  differences  in  this  respect  between  the 
interior  cuts  of  beef,  of  w^hich  tenderloin  is  a  typical  example,  and 
exterior  cuts  such  as  flank.  When  beef  flank  was  cooked  by  boiling 
for  two  hours,  the  toughness  of  the  fibers  greatly  increased  during  the 
first  half  hour  of  the  cooking  period,  .and  then  diminished  so  that  at  - 
the  end  of  the  cooking  period  the  meat  was  found  to  be  in  about  the 
same  condition  with  respect  to  toughness  or  tenderness  of  the  fibers 
as  at  the  beginning.  On  the  other  hand,  in  the  case  of  the  tenderloin, 
there  was  a  decrease  in  toughness  of  the  fibers  throughout  the  cooking 
period  which  was  particularly  marked  in  the  first  few  minutes  of 
cooking,  and  at  the  end  of  the  cooking  period  the  meat  fibers  were 
only  half  as  tough  as  before  cooking. 

aArck.  Hyg.,  63  (1907),  p.  134. 

391 


ECONOMICAL  USE   OF   MEAT   TN   THE  HOME.  15 

A  good  idea  of  the  changes  which  take  place  while  meat  is  being 
cooked  can  be  obtained  by  examining  a  piece  of  flesh  which  has  been 
"cooked  to  pieces/'  as  the  saying  goes.  In  this  the  muscular  fibers 
may  be  seen  completely  separated  one  from  another,  showing  that  the 
connective  tissue  has  been  destroyed.  It  is  also  evident  that  the 
,  fibers  themselves  are  of  different  texture  from  those  in  the  raw  meat. 
In  preparing  meat  for  the  table  it  is  usual  to  stop  short  of  the  point 
of  disintegration,  but  while  the  long  process  of  cooking  is  going  on  the 
connective  tissue  is  gradnally  softening  and  the  fibers  are  gradually 
changing  in  texture.  The  former  is  the  thing  to  be  especially  desired, 
but  the  latter  is  not.  For  this  reason  it  is  necessary  to  keep  the 
temperature  below  the  boiling  pomt  and  as  low  as  is  consistent  with 
thorough  cookiQg,  for  cooks  seem  agreed,  as  the  result  of  experience 
shows,  that  slow  gentle  cooking  results  in  better  texture  than  is  the 
case  when  meat  is  boiled  rapidly.  This  is  the  philosophy  that  lies 
back  of  the  simmering  process. 

When  meat  is  cooked  by  roasting,  broiling,  or  any  other  similar  "N 
process  the  meat  juices  brown  with  the  fat^  producing  substances  *  / 
which  to  most  of  us  are  a^^^SEleTo  the  sensS  of  smell  jjpd  taste  alil^e. 
When  meats  are  cooked'iii  hot  wateFsucElEigiily  flavored  substances 
are  not  so  evident  to  the  sense  of  smell,  but  nevertheless  bodies  of 
agreeable  flavor  which  are  perceptible  to  the  palate  are  developed 
in  the  meat  during  the  cooking  process. 

The  question  of  the  amount  and  character  of  the  ingredients  which   A 
'escape  from  the  meat  and  other  changes  occurring  in.  it  during  cooking     I 
is  too  complicated  to  be  discussed  in  detail  here.     Much  careful   / 
■  experimenting  along  these  lines  has  been  done  in  experiment  station  / 
and  other  laboratories,^-  and  the  results  show  that  the  losses  vary  j 
considerably  with  the  method  of  cooking  employed,  being  of  course  I 
greatest  where  small  pieces  of  meat  are  subjected  to  prolonged  cooking./ 

Among  the  principal  conclusions  drawn  from  the  experiments 
,  referred  to  are  the  following:  The  chief  loss  in  weight  when  meat  is 
cooked  is  due  to  the  driving  off  of  water.  When  beef  is  cooked  by 
pan  broiling — ^that  is,  searing  in  a  hot,  greased  pan,  a  common  cooking 
process — no  great  loss  of  nutrition  results,  particular  1}^  if  the  fat  and 
other  substances  adhering  to  the  pan  are  utilized  in  the  preparation 
of  gravy.  When  beef  is  cooked  by  boiling,  there  is  a  loss  of  3  to  20 
per  cent  of  material  present,  though  this  is  not  an  actual  loss  if  the 
broth  is  utilized  for  soup  or  in  some  similar  way.  Even  in  the  case 
of  meat  which  is  used  for  the  preparation  of  beef  tea  or  brotli,  the 
losses  of  nutritive  material  are  apparently  small  though  much  of  the 
flavoring  matter  has  been  removed.     The  amount  of  fat  found  in  ^ 

a  U.  S.  Dept.  Agr.,  Farmers'  Buls.  34,  162,  p.  9,  and  193,  p.  29;  also  Office  of  Expt. 
Stas.  Bui.  141. 
391 


16  ECONOMICAL  USE   OF   MEAT  IN   THE   HOME. 

broth  Yarias  directly  with  the  amount  originally  present  in  the  meat; 
the  fatter  the  meat  the  greater  the  quantity  of  fat  in  the  broth.  The 
loss  of  water  in  cooking  varies  inversely  with  the  fatness  of  the  meat; 
that  is,  the  fatter  the  meat  the  smaller  the  shrinkage  due  to  loss  of 
water.  In  cooked  meat  the  loss  of  various  constituents  is  inversely 
proportional  to  the  size  of  the  cut.  In  other  words,  the  smaller  the 
piece  of  meat  the  greater  the  percentage  of  loss.  Los.s  also  appears 
to  be  dependent  somewhat  upon  the  length  of  time  the  cooking  is 
continued.  When  pieces  of  meat  weighing  1 J  to  5  pounds  are  cooked 
in  water  somewhat  under  the  boiling  point  there  appears  to  be  little 
difference  in  the  amount  of  material  found  in  broth  whether  the  meat 
is  placed  in  cold  water  or  hot  water  at  the  beginning  of  the  cooking 
period.  When  meat  is  roasted  in  the  oven  the  amount  of  material 
removed  is  somewhat  affected  by  the  character  of  the  roasting  pan 
and  similar  factors,  thus  the  total  loss  in  v/eight  is  naturally  greater 
in  an  open  than  in  a  closed  pan  as-  the  open  pan  offers  more  oppor^ 
tunity  for  the  evaporation  of  water.  Judging  from  the  average 
results  of  a  considerable  number  of  tests  it  appears  that  a  roast  v,^eigh- 
ing  6  pounds  raw  should  weigh  5  pounds  after  cooking,  or  in  other 
words  the  loss  is  about  one-sixth  of  the  original  weight.  This  means 
that  if  the  raw  meat  costs  20  cents  per  pound  the  cooked  would  repre- 
sent an  increase  of  4  cents  a  pound  on  the  original  cost;  but  this  in- 
crease would  of  course  be  lessened  if  ail  the  drippings  and  gravy 
are-  utilized.  With  the  quantities  used  in  the  ordinary  home  the 
relative  losses  sustained  in  different  methods  of  cooking  meat  are  not 
great  enough  to  be  of  particular  importance  with  reference  to  eco- 
nomical management.  However,  in  pubKc  institutions  where  a  small 
saving  per  day  for  each  inmate  represents  a  large  item  in  the  course 
of  a  year,  it  may  be  desirable  to  select  methods  involving  the  least  J 
loss  which  would  mean  that  the  advantage  would  lie  with  stewing^ 
and  boiling  rather  than  with  broiling  and  roasting,  so  far  as  the  rela- 
tive losses  of  material  are  concerned.  The  relative  economy  of 
different  methods  of  cookery  depends  very  greatly  upon  the  Idnd  of 
fuel,  the  form  of  stove  and  oven,  and  other  similar  factors.  These 
vary  so  much  under  different  home  conditions  that  it  is  difficult  to 
draw  general  deductions  though  the  subject  has  often  been-  investi- 
gated. However,  it  may  be  said  that  it  is  often  possible  to  effect  a 
saving  ff  the  housewife  can  so  plan  the  cooking  of  meat  and  other 
foods  as  to  take  full  advantage  of  the  heat  supplied  by  the  fuel  used. 

REDUCmG  THE  EXPENSE  FOE,  MEAT  IST  THE  DIET. 

The  expense  for  meat  in  the  home  may  be  reduced  in  several  ways, 
and  each  housekeeper  can  best  judge  which  to  use  in  her  ovm  case. 
From  a  careful  consideration  of  the  subject  it  appears  that  the  vari-    i 

391 

J 


ECONOMICAL   USE   OF   MEAT   IN   THE   HOME.  IT 

ous  suggestions  which  have  been  made  on  the  subject  may  be  grouped^ 
under  the  following  general  heads:  Economy  in  selection  and  pur- 
chase so  as  to  take  advantage  of  varying  market  conditions ;  purchas- 
ing meat  in  wholesale  quantities  for  home  use;  serving  smaller  por-- 
tions  of  meat  than  usual  or  using  meat  less  frequently;  carefuR 
attention  to  the  use  of  meat,  bone,  fat,  and  small  portions  commonly 
trimmed  off  and  thrown  away  and  the  utilization  of  left-over  portions^ 
of  cooked  meat;  and  the  use  of  the  less  expensive  kinds. 

The  choice  of  cuts  should  correspond  to  the  needs  of  the  family  anc^' 
the  preferences  of  its  members.  Careful  consideration  of  market  con- 
ditions is  also  useful  not  only  to  make  sure  that  the  meat  is  handled 
and  marketed  in  a  sanitary  way  but  also  to  take  advantage  of  any 
favorable  change  in  price  which  may  be  due,  for  instance,  to  a  large- 
local  supply  of  some  particular  kind  or  cut  of  meat.  In  towns  where-: 
there  is  opportunity  for  choice,  it  may  sometimes  be  found  more^ 
satisfactory  not  to  give  all  the  family  trade  to  one  butcher;  by  going'^ 
to  various  markets  before  buying  the  housekeeper  is  m  a  better 
position  to  hear  of  variations  in  prices  and  so  be  in  a  position  to  get> 
the  best  values.  Ordering  by  telephone  or  from  the  butcher's  bojr 
at  the  door  may  be  less  economical  than  going  to  market  in  person  as?- 
the  range  of  choice  and  prices  is  of  course  more  obvious  when  the 
purchaser  sees  the  goods  and  has  a  chance  to  observe  market  con- 
ditions. Each  housekeeper  must  decide  for  herself  whether  or  not- 
the  greater  convenience  compensates  for  the  smaller  range  of  choice-, 
which  such  ordering  from  description  entails.  No  matter  what  the 
cut,  whether  expensive  or  cheap,  it  can  not  be  utilized  to  the  best- 
advantage  unless  it  is  well  cooked.  Poorly  prepared  meat  dishes  are^ 
almost  inevitably  wasted  at  the  table.  As  an  illustration  of  the^ 
losses  arising  through  unwise  selection  and  poor  cooking  may  be^ 
mentioned  facts  observed  in  dietary  studies  carried  on  by  the  Office- 
of  Experiment  Stations.  In  many  families  where  the  income  wasr. 
fairly  good  the  table  and  other  conditions  were  far  from  satisfactory. 
In  such  cases  the  marketing  vf  as  quite  commonly  done  by  a  child  or 
someone  without  knowledge  or  experience.  In  a  particular  instance^ 
the  selection  was  expensive  steak,  which  later  was  so  badly  cooked  that 
it  was  hardly  possible  to  eat  it.  A  cheaper  cut  well  cooked  w^ould  have^ 
been  much  more  satisfactory  as  well  as  more  economical. 

There  is  sometimes  an  advantage  in  using  canned  meat  and  meat' 
products,  and,  if  they  are  of  good  quality,  such  products  are  whole- 
some and  palatable. 

That  economy  is  furthered  by  careful  serving  at  table  is  obvious.. 

If  more  meat  is  given  at  each  serving  than  the  person  wishes  or 

habitually  eats  the  table  waste  is  unduly  increased.     Economy  in  all 

such  points  is  important  and  not  beneath  the  dignity  of  the  family^ 

28449— Bull.  391—10 3 


18  ECONOMICAL  USE   OF    MEAT   IN   THE   HOME. 

In  rural  regions  both  in  the  United  States  and  in  Europe  farmers 
sometimes  cooperate  in  the  maintenance  of  slaughterhouses  and  store- 
houses, thus  maldng  it  easier  to  obtain  fresh  meat  in  hot  weather. 
In  a  ''meat  club"  "  in  this  country,  which  was  said  to  be  successful, 
the  members  took  turns  in  providing  animals  (lambs  or  heifers)  for 
the  slaughtering  which  was  done  in  a  special  shed  on  three  Saturdays 
of  each  month.  The  meat  was  distributed  among  the  members 
according  to  a  system  previously  agreed  on,  the  different  cuts  going 
to  the  different  members  in  rotation.  A  fixed  price  per  pound  was 
agreed  on  at  the  beginnmg  of  the  season  and  at  the  end  of  the  season 
accounts  were  balanced  according  to  the  weight  of  the  animals  pro- 
vided by  and  of  the  cuts  supplied  to  each  member.  Such  a  plan  seems 
capable  of  extension  to  meet  a  variety  of  conditions,  particularly  in 
rural  regions. 

Various  other  phases  of  the  question  of  lessening  the  expense  for 
naeat  in  the  home  are  discussed  in  the  following  sections. 

LESSENING  THE  AMOUNT  OF  MEAT  USED. 

In  many  American  families  meat  is  eaten  two  or  three  times  a  day ; 
in  such  cases  the  simplest  way  of  reducing  the  meat  bill  would  very 
likely  be  to  cut  down  the  amount  used,  either  by  serving  it  less  often 
or  by  using  less  at  a  time.  Deficiency  ofN  protein  Heed  not  be  feared 
when,  one  good  meat  dish  a  day  is  served,  especially  if  such  nitrog- 
enous materials  as  eggs,  milk,  cheese,  and  beans  are  used  instead. 
In  localities  where  fish  can  be  obtained  fresh  and  cheap,  it  might  well 
be  more  frequently  substituted  for  meat  for  the  sake  of  variety  as 
well  as  economy.  Ingenious  cooks  have  many  waj^s  of  ''extending 
the  flavor"  of  meat,  that  is,  of  combining  a  small  quaxxtity  with  other 
materials  to  make  a  large  dish,  as  in  meat  pies,  stews,  and  similar 
dishes.  Such  dishes  and  their  preparation"~are  spoken  of  elsewhere. 
(See  p.  21.) 

BUYING  MEAT  IN  QUANTITY  FOR  HOME  USE. 

By  buying  in  large  quantities  under  certain  conditions  it  may  be 
possible  to  procure  meat  at  better  prices  than  those  which  ordinarily 
prevail  in  the  retail  market.  The  whole  side  or  quarter  of  an  auimal 
can  frequently  be  obtained  at  noticeably  less  cost  per  pound  than 
when  it  is  bought  cut  by  cut,  and  can  be  used  to  advantage  when  the 
housekeeper  understands  the  art  and  has  proper  storage  facilities  and 
a  good-sized  family.  When  a  hind  quarter  of  mutton,  for  example, 
comes  from  the  market  the  flank  (on  which  the  meat  is  thin,  and,  as  good 
housekeepers  believe,  likely  to  spoil  more  easily  than  some  other  cuts) 
should  be  cooked  immediately,  or  if  preferred  it  may  be  covered  with 

«  Breeder's  Gaz.,  53  (1908),  p.  232. 
391 


ECONOMICAL  USE   OF   MEAT   IN   THE   HOME.  19 

a  thin  layer  of  fat  (rendered  suet)  which  can  be  easily  removed  when 
the  time  for  cooking  comes.  The  flank,  together  v/ith  the  rib  bone, 
ordinarily  makes  a  gallon  of  good  Scotch  broth.  The  remainder  of 
the  hind  quarter  may  be  used  for  roast  or  chops.  The  whole  pig 
carcass  has  always  been  used  by  families  living  on  the  farms  where 
the  animals  are  slaughtered,  and  in  village  homes;  town  housekeepers 
not  infrequently  buy  pigs  whole  and  '^put  down"  the  meat.  An 
animal  6  months  old  and  weighing  about  100  pounds  would  be  suit- 
able for  this  purpose.  The  hams  and  thin  pieces  of  belly  meat  may 
be  pickled  and  smoked.  The  thick  pieces  of  belly  meat,  packed  in  a 
two-gallon  jar  and  covered  with  salt  or  brine,  will  make  a  supply  of 
fat  pork  to  cook  with  beans  and  other  vegetables.  The  tenderloin 
makes  good  roasts,  the  head  and  feet  may  go  into  head  cheese  or 
scrapple,  and  the  trimmings  and  other  scraps  of  lean  meat  serve  for 
a  few  pounds  of  homemade  sausage.  In  some  large  families  it  is 
found  profitable  to  '^corn"  a  fore  quarter  of  beef  for  spring  and 
summer  use.  Formerly  it  w^as  a  common  farm  practice  to  dry  beef, 
but  now  it  seems  to  be  more  usual  to  purchase  beef  which  has  been 
dried  in  large  establishments.  The  general  use  of  refrigerators  and 
ice  chests  in  homes  at  the  present  time  has  had  a  great  influence  on 
the  length  of  time  meat  may  be  kept  and  so  upon  the  amount  a  house- 
wife may  buy  at  a  time  with  advantage. 

Pickling,  smoking,  and  other  methods  of  curing  meat  for  home  use 
has  been  discussed  in  an  earlier  bulletin^  in  this  series. 

The  preservation  of  meat  and  meat  products  by  canning  is  a  matter 
of  great  importance  but  it  is  almost  wholly  a  commercial  enterprise, 
as  the  difficulties  in  the  way  of  successful^  canning  meat  in  the  home 
are  many. 

TJTILIZING  THE  FAT,  BONE,  AND  TRIMMINGS  IN  MEATS,  AND  THE 
LEFT-OVER  COLD  MEATS. 

In  the  percentage  of  fat  present  in  different  kinds  and  cuts  of  meat, 
a  greater  difference  exists  than  in  the  percentage  of  proteids.  The 
lowest  percentage  of  fat  shown  in  the  table  on  page  6  was  8.1  per 
cent  in  the  shank  of  beef;  the  highest  was  32  per  cent  in  the  pork 
chops.  The  highest  priced  cuts,  loin  and  ribs  of  beef,  contain  20  to 
25  per  cent.  If  the  fat  of  the  meat  is  not  eaten  at  the  table,  and  is  not 
utilized  otherwise,  a  pecuniary  loss  results.  If  butter  is  the  fat  used 
in  making  crusts  for  meat  pies,  and  in  prepaiing  the  cheaper  cuts, 
there  is  little  economy  involved;  the  fats  from  other  meat  should 
therefore  be  saved,  as  they  may  be  used  in  place  of  butter  in  such 
cases,  as  well  as  in  preparing  many  other  foods.  The  fat  from  sausage 
or  from  the  soup  kettle,  or  from  a  pot  roast,  which  is  savory  because 
it   has    been    cooked    with    vegetables,    is    particularly    acceptable. 

aJJ.  S.  Dept.  Agr.,  Farmers'  Bill.  183. 
391 


20  ECONOMICAL   USE   OF   MEAT  IN   THE   HOME. 

Sometimes  savory  vegetables,  onion,  or  sweet  herbs  are  added  to  fat 
when  it  is  tried  out  to  give  it  flavor. 

Some  ilhistrations  of  methods  of  preparing  such  cooking  fats 
follow : 

Trying  out  Fat. 

A  double  boiler  is  the  best  utensil  to  use  in  trying  out  small  portions  of  fat.  There 
is  no  danger  of  burning  the  fat  and  the  odor  is  much  less  noticeable  than  if  it  is  heated 
in  a  dish  set  directly  over  the  fire. 

Clarifying  Fat. 

Excepting  where  the  purpose  of  clarifying  fat  is  to  remove  flavors,  a  good  method 
to  follow  is  to  pour  boiling  water  over  the  fat,  to  boil  thoroughly,  and  then  to  set  it 
away  to  cool.  The  cold  fat  may  be  removed  in  a  solid  cake  and  any  impurities  cling- 
ing to  it  may  be  scraped  off,  as  they  will  be  found  at  the  bottom  of  the  layer.  By 
repeating  this  process  two  or  three  times  a  cake  of  clean,  white  fat  may  be  obtained. 

A  slight  burned  taste  or  similar  objectionable  flavors  often  can  be  removed  from 
fat  by  means  of  potatoes.  After  melting  the  fat.  put  into  it  thick  slices  of  raw  potato; 
heat  gradually.  When  the  fat  ceases  to  bubble  and  the  potatoes  are  brown,  strain 
through  a  cloth  placed  in  a  wire  strainer. 

Savory  Drippingfs. 

1  When  rendering  the  drippings  of  fat  meat,  add  a  small  onion  (do  not  cut  it),  a  few 
reaves  of  summer  savory  and  thyme,  a  teaspoonful  of  salt,  and  a  little  pepper.  This 
is  enough  for  a  pint  of  fat.     Keep  the  drippings  covered  and  in  a  cool  place. 

Uses  for  Bones. 

Almost  any  meat  bones  can  be  used  in  soup  making,  and  if  the  meat 
is  not  all  removed  from  them  the  soup  is  better.  But  some  bones, 
especially  the  rib  bones,  if  they  have  a  little  meat  left  on  them,  can^ 
be  grilled  or  roasted  into  very  palatable  dishes.  The  '^sparerib''  of 
southern  cooks  is  made  of  the  rib  bones  from  a  roast  of  pork,  and  makes 
a  favorite  dish  when  well  browned.  The  braised  ribs  of  beefs  often 
served  in  high-class  restaurants  are  made  from  the  bones  cut  from 
rib  roasts.  In  this  connection  it  may  be  noted  that  many  of  the 
dishes  popular  in  good  hotels  are  made  of  portions  of  meat  such  as  are 
frequently  thrown  away  in  private  houses,  but  which  with  proper 
cooking  and  seasoning  make  attractive  dishes  and  give  most  accepta- 
ble variety  to  the  menu.  An  old  recipe  for  ^'broiled  bones''  directs 
that  the  bones  (beef  ribs  or  sirloin  bones  on  which  the  meat  is  not  left 
too  thick  in  any  part)  be  sprinkled  with  salt  and  pepper  (Cayenne),  and 
broiled  over  a  clear  fire  until  browned.  Another  example  of  the  use 
of  bones  is  boiled  marrow  bone.  The  bones  are  cut  in  convenient 
lengths,  the  ends  covered  with  a  little  piece  of  dough  over  which  a 
floured  cloth  is  tied,  and  cooked  in  boiling  water  for  two  hours. 
After  removing  the  cloth  and  dough,  the  bones  are  placed  upright  on 
toast  and  served.  Prepared  as  above,  the  bones  may  also  be  baked 
in  a  deep  dish.  Marrow  is  sometimes  removed  from  bones  after 
cooking,  seasoned,  and  served  on  toast. 

391 


ECONOMICAL  USE   OF   MEAT  IN   THE   HOME.  21 

Trimmings  from  meat  may  be  utilized  in  yarious  ''made  dishes''  of 
which  examples  v/ill  be  given  further  on,  or  they  can  always  be  put  to 
good  use  in  the  soup  kettle.  It  is  surprising  how  many  economies 
may  be  practiced  in  such  ways  and  also  in  the  table  use  of  left-over 
portions  of  cooked  meat  if  attention  is  given  to  the  matter.  Many 
of  the  recipes  given  in  this  bulletin  involve  the  use  of  such  left-overs. 
Others  will  suggest  themselves  or  may  be  found  in  all  the  usual  cookery 
books. 

METHODS  OF  EXTENDHSTG  THE  FLAVOR  OF  MEAT. 


Common  household  methods  of  extending  the  xneat  flavor  through  a 
considerable  quantity  of  material  which  would  otherwise  be  lacking 
in  distinctive  taste  are  to  serve  the  meat  with  dumplings,  generally 
in  the  dish  with  it,  to  conlbine  the  m"eaT'wimcrusts,  as  in  m^eat  pies 
or  meat  rolls,  or  to  serve  the  meat  on  toast  and  biscuits.  Borders  of 
rice,  hominy,  or  mashed  potatoes  are  examples  of  the  same  principles 
applied  in  different  ways.  By  serving  some  preparation  of  flour,  rice, 
hominy,  or  other  food  rich  in  starch  with  the  meat  we  get  a  dish 
which  in  itself  approaches  nearer  to  the  balanced  ration  than  meat 
alone  and  one  in  which  the  meat  flavor  is  extended  through  a  large 
amount  of  the  material. 

Throughout  the  bulletin  the  measurements  given  in  the  recipes 
call  for  a  level  spoonful  or  a  level  cupful,  as  the  case  may  be. 

USB  OF  DUMPLINGS  AND   SIMILAR  PREPARATIONS. 

A  number  of  recipes  for  meat  dishes  made  with  dumplings  and  similar  preparations 
follow: 

Meat  Stew  with  Dumplings. 


5  pounds  of  a  cheaper  cut  of  beef.  ^  onion,  chopped. 

4  cups  of  potatoes  cut  into  small  pieces.        ^  cup  of  flour. 
§  cup  each  of  turnips  and  carrots  cut  into     Salt  and  pepper. 

^-inch  cubes. 

Cut  the  meat  into  small  pieces,  removing  the  fat;  try  out  the  fat  and  brown  the  meat 
in  it.  When  well  browned,  cover  with  boiling  water,  boil  for  five  minutes  and  then 
cook  in  a  lower  temperature  until  the  meat  is  done.  If  tender,  this  will  require 
about  three  hours  on  the  stove  or  five  hours  in  the  fireless  cooker.  Add  carrots,  tur- 
nips, onions,  pepper,  and  salt  during  the  last  hour  of  cooking,  and  the  potatoes  fifteen 
minutes  before  serving.  Thicken  with  the  flour  diluted  with  cold  water.  Serve 
with  dumplings  (see  below).  If  this  dish  is  made  in  the  fireless  cooker,  the  mixture 
must  be  reheated  when  the  vegetables  are  put  in.  Such  a  stew  may  also  be  made  of 
mutton.  If  veal  or  pork  is  used  the  vegetables  may  be  omitted  or  simply  a  little  onion 
used.  Sometimes  for  variety  the  browning  of  the  meat  is  dispensed  with.  When 
.  white  meat  such  as  chicken,  veal,  or  fresh  pork  is  used,  the  gravy  is  often  made  rich  with 
cream  or  milk  thickened  with  flour.  The  numerous  minor  additions  which  may  be 
introduced  give  the  great  variety  of  such  stews  found  in  cookbooks. 
391 


22 


ECONOMICAL  USE   OF   MEAT  IN   THE   HOME. 


DUMPLINGS. 


i  teaspoonful  salt. 
2  teaspoonfuls  butter. 


2  Clips  flour. 

4  teaspoonfuls  baking  powder, 

^  cup  milk  or  a  little  more  if  needed. 

Mix  and  sift  the  dry  ingredients.  Work  in  the  butter  with  the  tips  of  fingers,  add 
milk  gradually,  roll  out  to  a  thickness  of  one-half  inch  and  cut  with  biscuit  cutter. 
In  some  countries  it  is  customary  to  season  the  dumplings  themselves  with  herbs,  etc., 
or  to  stuff  them  with  bread  crumbs  fried  in  butter  instead  of  depending  upon  the 
gravy  to  season  them. 

A  good  way  to  cook  dumplings  is  to  put  them  in  a  buttered  steamer  over  a  kettle 
of  hot  water.  They  should  cook  from  twelve  to  fifteen  minutes.  If  it  is  necessary 
to  cook  them  with  the  stew,  enough  liquid  should  be  removed  so  that  they  may  be 
placed  upon  the  meat  and  vegetables. 

Sometimes  the  dough  is  baked  and  served  as  biscuits  over  which  the  stew  is  poured. 
If  the  stew  is  made  with  chicken  or  veal  it  is  generally  termed  a  fricassee. 

Ragout  of  Mutton  with  Farina  Balls. 


1-|  pounds  neck  of  mutton  cut  into  small 

pieces. 
1  tablespoonful  butter. 
1  tablespoonful  flour. 
1  onion. 
1  carrot, 
i  can  peas. 


2  cups  hot  water. 
1  teaspoonful  salt. 
I  teaspoonful  pepper. 
1  bay  leaf. 
Sprig  parsley. 
1  clove. 


^  cup  farina. 

1  cup  milk. 

i  teaspoonful  salt. 

Put  butter  in  frying  pan. 


PAEINA   BALLS. 

J  teaspoonful  pepper. 
Onion  juice. 
Yolk  1  egg. 

When  melted  add  flour  and  brown. 


Add  carrot  and 


onion,  cut  in  dice.  Hemove  vegetables  and  add  meat,  searing  well.  To  meat  and 
vegetables  add  hot  water  and  seasonings.  Put  in  a  suitable  kettle,  cover  and  simmer 
two  hours.  Add  peas  ten  minutes  before  serving  in  a  dish  with  farina  balls  made  as 
follows : 

Cook  farina  and  milk  in  double  boiler  one  hour.  Add  seasoning  and  well-beaten 
yolk.  Stir  well  and  cool.  When  cold  roll  into  balls.  Dip  in  egg  and  crumbs  and 
fry  in  deep  fat.     Rice  may  be  used  in  a  similar  way. 

MEAT  PIESAND  SIMILAE,  DISHES. 

Meat  pies  represent  another  methodof  combining  flour  witji  meat;. 
They  are  ordinarily  baked  in  a  fairly  deep  dish  the  sides  of  which  may 
or  may  not  be  lined  with  dough.  The  cooked  meat,  cut  into  small 
pieces,  is  put  into  the  dish,  sometimes  with  small  pieces  of  vegetables, 
a  gravy  is  poured  over  the  meat,  the  dish  is  covered  with  a  layer  of 
dough,  and  then  baked.  Most  commonly  the  dough  is  like  that  used 
for  soda  or  cream-of-tartar  biscuit,  but  sometimes  shortened  pastry 
dough,  such  as  is  made  for  pies,  is  used.  This  is  especially  the  case 
in  the  fancy  individual  dishes  usually  called  patties.  Occasionally 
the  pie  is  covered  with  a  potato  crust  in  which  case  the  meat  is  put 
directly  into  the  dish  without  lining  the  latter.     Stewed  beef,  veal, 

391 


ECOIN-OMICAL.  USE   OF   MEAT   IN   THE   HOME.  23 

and  chicken  are  probably  most  frequently  used  in  pies,  but  any  kind 
of  meat  may  be  used,  or  several  kinds  in  combination.     Pork  pies 
are  favorite   dishes  in  many  rural  regions,  especially  at  hog-killing . 
time,  and  when  well  made  are  excellent. 

If  pies  are  made  from  raw  meat  and  vegetables  longer  cooking  is 
needed  than  otherwise,  and  in  such  cases  it  is  well  to  cover  the  dish 
with  a  plate,  cook  until  the  pie  is  jiearly  done,  then  remove  the  plate, 
add  the  crust,  and  return  to  the  oven  until  the  crust  is  lightly  brov/ned. 
Many  cooks  insist  on  piercing  holes  in  the  top  crust  of  a  meat  pie 
directly  it  is  taken  from  the  oven. 

Twelve  O'clock  Pie. 

This  is  made  with,  shoulder  of  mutton,  boiled  with  carrot  and  onion,  then  cut  up, 
mixed  with  potatoes  separately  boiled  and  cut  up,  and  put  into  a  baking  dish.  The 
crust  is  made  by  mixing  smoothly  mashed  potatoes  to  which  a  tablespoonful  of  shorten- 
ing has  been  added,  with  enough  flour  and  water  to  make  them  roll  out  easily.  A  pie 
made  of  a  pound  of  meat  will  require  5  or  6  small  boiled  potatoes,  a  cupful  of  mashed 
potatoes,  and  8  or  10  tablespoonfuls  of  flour,  and  should  be  baked  about  twenty  min- 
utes in  a  hot  oven.  Salt,  pepper,  and  other  seasoning,  as  onion  and  carrot,  may  be 
added  to  taste.     A  teaspoonful  of  baking  powder  makes  the  crust  lighter. 

Meat  and  Tomato  Pie. 

This  dish  presents  an  excellent  way  of  using  up  small  quantities  of  either  cold  beef 
or  cold  mutton.  If  fresh  tomatoes  are  used,  peel  and  slice  them;  if  canned,  drain 
off  the  liquid.  Place  a  layer  of  tomato  in  a  baking  dish,  then  a  layer  of  sliced  meat, 
and  over  the  two  dredge  flour,  pepper,  and  salt;  repeat  until  the  dish  is  nearly  full, 
then  put  in  an  extra  layer  of  tomato  and  cover  the  whole  with  a  layer  of  pastry  or  of 
bread  or  cracker  crumbs.  When  the  quantity  of  meat  is  small,  it  may  be  "helped 
out"  by  boiled  potatoes  or  other  suitable  vegetables.  A  few  oysters  or  mushrooms 
improve  the  flavor,  especially  when  beef  is  used.  The  pie  will  need  to  be  baked  from 
half  an  hour  to  an  hour  according  to  its  size  and  the  heat  of  the  oven. 

Meat  and  Pastry  Rolls. 

Small  quantities  of  cold  ham,  chicken,  or  other  meat  may  be  utilized  for  these. 
The  meat  should  be  chopped  fine,  well  seasoned,  mixed  with  enough  savory  fat  or 
butter  to  make  it  "shape,  "  and  formed  into  rolls  about  the  size  of  a  finger.  A  short 
dough  (made,  say,  of  a  pint  of  flour,  2  tablespoonfuls  of  lard,  1  teaspoonful  of  baking 
powder,  salt,  and  milk  enough  to  mix)  should  be  rolled  thin,  cut  into  strips,  and  folded 
about  the  meat  rolls,  care  being  taken  to  keep  the  shape  regular.  The  rolls  should  be 
-feaked  in  a  quick  oven  until  they  are  a  delicate  brown  color  and  served  hot. 

Meat  Turnovers. 

Almost  any  kind  of  chopped  meat  may  be  used  in  these,. and  if  the  quantity  on  hand 
is  small  may  be  mixed  with  potato  or  cooked  rice.  This  filling  should  be  seasoned  to 
taste  with  salt  and  pepper,  onion,  or  whatever  is  relished,  and  laid  on  pieces  of  short 
biscuit  dough  rolled  thin  and  cut  into  circles  about  the  size  of  an  ordinary  saucer. 
The  edges  of  the  dough  should  be  moistened  with  white  of  egg,  the  dough  then  folded 
over  the  meat,  and  its  edges  pinched  closely  together.  If  desired,  the  tops  of  the  turn- 
overs may  be  brushed  over  with  yolk  of  egg  before  they  are  placed  in  the  oven.  About 
half  an  hour's  baking  in  a  hot  oven  is  required .  Serving  with  a  brown  sauce  (see  p.  39) 
increases  the  flavor  and  moistens  the  crust. 
391 


24  ECONOMICAL  USE   OF   MEAT  IN   THE   HOME. 

MEAT  WITH  MACARONI  AND  OTHER  STARCHY  MATERIALS. 

Macaroni  cooked  with  chopped  ham,  hash  made  of  meat  and  pota- 
toes or  meat  and  rice,  meat  croquettes — made  of  meat  and  some 
starchy  materials  hke  bread  crumbs,  cracker  dust,  or  rice — are  other 
famiHar  examples  of  meat  combined  with  starchy  materials.  Pilaf, 
a  dish  very  common  in  the  Orient  and  well  known  in  the  United  States, 
is  of  this  character  and  easily  made.  When  there  is  soup  or  soup 
stock  on  hand  it  can  be  well  used  in  the  pilaf. 

Turkish  Pilaf. 

^  cup  of  rice.  I  1  cup  stock  or  broth. 

f  cup  of  tomatoes  stewed  and  strained.       '  3  tablespoonfuls  of  butter. 

Cook  the  rice  and  tomatoes  with  the  stock  in  a  double  boiler  until  the  rice  is  tender, 
removing  the  cover  after  the  rice  is  cooked  if  there  is  too  much  liquid.  Add  the  butter 
and  stir  it  in  with  a  fork  to  prevent  the  rice  from  being  broken.  A  little  catsup  or 
Chili  sauce  with  water  enough  to  make  three-quarters  of  a  cup  may  be  substituted  for 
the  tomatoes.  This  may  be  served  as  a  border  with  meat,  or  served  separately  in  the 
place  of  a  vegetable,  or  may  make  the  main  dish  at  a  meal,  as  it  is  savory  and  reason- 
ably nutritious. 

Meat  Cakes. 


1  pound  chopped  veal. 

J  pound  soaked  bread  crumbs. 

2  tablespoonfuls  savory  fat  or  butter. 


1  teaspoonful  chopped  onion. 
IJ  teaspoonfuls  salt. 
Dash  of  pepper.    , 


Mix  all  the  ingredients  except  the  butter  or  fat  and  shape  into  small  round  cakes. 
Melt  the  fat  in  a  baking  pan  and  brown  the  cakes  in  it,  first  one  side  arid  then  the 
other.  Either  cooked  or  raw  veal  may  be  used.  In  the  case  of  raw  meat  the  pan 
should  be  covered  so  that  the  heat  may  be  retained  to  soften  the  meat. 

Stew  from  Cold  Roast. 

This  dish  provides  a  good  way  of  using  up  the  remnants  of  a  roast,  either  of  beef  or 
mutton.  The  meat  should  be  freed  from  fat,  gristle,  and  bones,  cut  into  small  pieces, 
slightly  salted,  and  put  into  a  kettle  with  water  enough  to  nearly  cover  it.  It  should 
simmer  until  almost  ready  to  break  in  pieces,  when  onions  and  raw  potatoes,  peeled 
and  quartered,  should  be  added.  A  little  soup  stock  may  also  be  added  if  available. 
Cook  until  the  potatoes  are  done,  then  thicken  the  liquor  or  gravy  with  flour.  The 
stew  may  be  attractively  served  on  slices  of  crisp  toast. 

MEAT  WITH  JBEANS. 

Dry  beans  are  very  rich  in  protein,  the  percentage  being  fully  as 
large  as  that  in  meat.  Dry  beans  and  other  similar  legumes  are 
usually  cooked  in  water,  which  they  absorb,  and  so  are  diluted  before 
serving;  on  the  other  hand,  meats  by  the  ordinary  methods  of  cooking 
are  usually  deprived  of  some  of  the  water  originally  present — facts 
which  are  often  overlooked  in  discussing  the  matter.  Nevertheless, 
when  beans  are  served  with  meat  the  dish  is  almost  as  rich  in  protein 
as  if  it  consisted  entirely  of  meat. 

Pork  and  beans  is  such  a  well-known  dish  that  recipes  are  not 
needed.     Some  cooks  use  a  piece  of  corned  mutton  or  a  piece  of^ 

391 


ECONOMICAL  USE  OF  MEAT  IN  THE  HOME.  25 

corned  beef  in  place  of  salt  or  corned  pork  or  bacon  or  use  butter  or 
olive  oil  in  preparing  this  dish. 

In  the  Southern  States,  where  cowpeas  are  a  common  crop,  they  are 
cooked  in  the  same  way  as  dried  beans.  Cowpeas  baked  with  salt 
pork  or  bacon  make  an  excellent  dish  resembling  pork  and  beans,  but 
of  distinctive  flavor.  Cowpeas  boiled  with  ham  or  with  bacon  are  also 
well-known  and  palatable  dishes. 

Recipes  are  here  given  for  some  less  common  meat  and  bean  dishes. 

Mexican  Beef. 

The  Mexicans  have  a  dish  known  as  ''Chili  con  came"  (meat  with  Chili  pepper), 
the  ingredients  for  which  one  would  doubtless  have  difficulty  in  obtaining  except  in 
the  southwestern  United  States.  However,  a  good  substitute  for  it  may  be  made  with 
the  foods  available  in  all  parts  of  the  country.    The  Mexican  recipe  is  as  follows: 

Remove  the  seeds  from  two  Chili  peppers,  soak  the  pods  in  a  pint  of  warm  water 
until  they  are  soft,  scrape  the  pulp  from  the  skin  and  add  to  the  water.  Cut  two 
pounds  of  beef  into  small  pieces  and  brown  in  butter  or  drippings.  Add  a  clove  of 
garlic  and  the  Chili  water.  Cook  until  the  meat  is  tender,  renewing  the  water  if  neces- 
sary. Thicken  the  sauce  with  flour.  Serve  with  Mexican  beans  either  mixed  with 
the  meat  or  used  as  a  border. 

In  the  absence  of  the  Chili  peppers,  water  and  Cayenne  pepper  may  be  used,  and 
onions  may  be  substituted  for  garlic.  For  the  Mexican  beans,  red  kidney  beans  either 
fresh  or  canned  make  a  good  substitute.  If  the  canned  beans  are  used  they  should  be 
drained  and  heated  in  a  little  savory  fat  or  butter.  The  liquid  may  be  added  to  the 
meat  while  it  is  cooking.  If  the  dried  beans  are  used  they  should  be  soaked  until  soft, 
then  cooked  in  water  until  tender  and  rather  dry,  a  little  butter  or  dripping  and  salt 
being  used  for  seasoning  or  gravy.  White  or  dried  Lima  beans  may  be  used  in  a  similar 
way. 

Haricot  of  Mutton. 


1^  pounds  of  lean  mutton  or  lamb  cut 
into  2-inch  pieces. 


2  tablespoonfuls  of  chopped  onions. 
2  tablespoonfuls  of  butter  or  drippings. 
2  cups  of  water,  and  salt  and  pepper. 

Fry  the  onions  in  the  butter,  add  the  meat  and  brown;  cover  with  water  and  cook 
until  the  meat  is  tender.  Serve  with  a  border  of  Lima  beans,  seasoned  with  salt, 
pepper,  butter,  and  a  little  chopped  parsley.  Fresh,  canned,  dried,  or  evaporated 
Lima  beans  may  be  used  in  making  this  dish. 

Koast  Pork  with  Cowpeas. 

For  this  dish  a  leg  of  young  pork  should  be  selected.  With  a  sharp  knife  make  a 
deep  cut  in  the  knuckle  and  fill  the  opening  with  sage,  pepper,  salt,  and  chopped 
onion.  Wlien  the  roast  is  half  done  scar  the  skin  but  do  not  cut  deeper  than  the  outer 
rind.  When  the  meat  is  nearly  cooked  pour  off  the  excess  of  fat  and  add  a  quart  of 
ivhite  cowpeas  which  have  been  previously  parboiled  or  "hulled  "  and  cook  slowly  until 
quite  done  and  the  meat  is  brown.    Apple  sauce  may  be  served  with  this  dish. 

MEAT  SALADS. 

Whether  meat  salads  are  ecanoniical  or  not  depends  upon  the  way 
in  which  the  materials  are  utilized.  If  in  chicken  salad,  for  example, 
only  the  white  meat  of  chickens  especially  bought  for  the  purpose 

391 


26  ECONOMICAL,  USE   OF   MEAT  IN   THE   HOME. 

and  only  tlie  inside  stems  of  expensive  celery  are  used,  it  can  hardly 
be  cheaper  than  plain  chicken.  But,  if  portions  of  meat  left  over 
from  a  previous  serving  are  mixed  with  celery  grown  at  home,  they 
certainly  make  an  economical  dish,  and  one  very  acceptable  to  most 
persons.  Cold  roast  pork  or  tender  veal — in  fact,  any  white  meat  can 
be  utilized  in  the  same  way.  Apples  cut  into  cubes  may  be  sub- 
stituted for  part  of  the  celery;  many  cooks  consider  that  with  the 
apple  the  salad  takes  the  dressing  better  than  with  the  celery  alone. 
Many  also  prefer  to  marinate  (i.  e.,  mix  with  a  little  oil  and  vinegar) 
the  meat  and  celery  or  celery  and  apples  before  putting  in  the  final 
dressing,  which  may  be  either  mayonnaise  or  a  good  boiled  dressing. 

MEAT  WITH  EGGS. 

Occasionally  eggs  are  combined  with  meat,  making  very  nutritious 
dishes.  Whether  this  is  an  economy  or  not  of  course  depends  on 
the  comparative  cost  of  eggs  and  meat. 

In  general,  it  may  be  said  that  eggs  are  cheaper  food  than  meat 
when  a  dozen  costs  less  than  IJ  pounds  of  meat,  for  a  dozen  eggs 
v/eighs  about  IJ  pounds  and  the  proportions  of  protein  and  fat 
which  they  contain  are  not  far  different  from  the  proportions  of  these 
nutrients  in  the  average  cut  of  meat.  When  eggs  are  30  cents  a 
dozen  they  compare  favorably  with  round  of  beef  at  20  cents  a  pound. 

Such  common  dishes  as  ham  and  eggs,  bacon  or  salt  pork  and  eggs, 
and  omelette  with  minced  ham  or  other  meat  are  familiar  to  all  cooks. 

Roast  Beef  with  Yorkshire  Pudding. 

The  beef  is  roasted  as  usual  and  the  pudding  made  as  follows: 

YORKSHIRE  PUDDING. 

3  eggs.  I    1  cupful  flour. 

1  pint  milk.  |    1  teaspoonful  salt. 

Beat  the  eggs  until  very  light,  then  add  the  milk.  Pour  the  mixture  over  the  flour, 
add  the  salt,  and  beat  well.  Bake  in  hissing  hot  gem  pans  or  in  an  ordinary  baking 
pan  for  forty-five  minutes,  and  baste  with  drippings  from  the  beef.  If  gem  pans  are 
used  they  should  be  placed  on  a  dripping  pan  to  protect  the  floor  of  the  oven  from  the 
fat.  Many  cooks  prefer  to  bake  Yorkshire  pudding  in  the  pan  with  the  meat;  in 
this  case  the  roast  should  be  placed  on  a  rack  and  the  pudding  batter  pom*ed  on  the 
pan  under  it. 

Corned-Beef  Hash  with  Poached  Eggs. 

A  dish  popular  with  many  persons  is  corned-beef  hash  with  poached  eggs  on  top 
of  the  hash.     A  slice  of  toast  is  sometimes  used  under  the  hash.     This  suggests  a 
way  of  utilizing  the  small  amount  of  corned-beef  hash  which  would  otherwise  be  insuf-  j 
ficient  for  a  meal. 

Housekeepers  occasionally  use  up  odd  bits  of  other  meat  in  a  similar  way,  chopping  ' 
and  seasoning  them  and  then  warming  and  serving  in  individual  baking  cups  with 
a  poached  or  shirred  egg  on  each. 
391 


ECONOMICAL  USE   OF   MEAT   IN   THE   HOME.  27 

Ham  and  Poached  Eggs  with  Cream  Sauce. 

A  more  elaborate  dish  of  meat  and  eggs  is  made  by  placing  a  piece  of  thinly  sliced 
boiled  ham  on  a  round  of  buttered  toast,  a  poached  egg  on  the  ham,  and  covering 
with  a  highly  seasoned  cream  or  a  Hollandaise  sauce.  A  slice  of  tongue  may  be  used 
instead  of  the  ham.  If  preferred,  a  well-seasoned  and  rather  thick  tomato  sauce  or 
curry  sauce  may  be  used.  

STUFFING  OSr3?^q^^MEAT. 

Another  popular  way  to  extend  the  flavor  of  meat  over  a  large 
amount  of  food  is  by  the  use  of  stuffing  or  forcemeat  (a  synonym 
more  common  in  England  than  in  the  United  States).  As  it  is  im- 
possible to  introduce  much  stuffing  into  some  pieces  of  meat  even 
if  the  meat  is  cut  to  make  a  pocket  for  it,  it  is  often  well  to  prepare 
more  than  can  be  put  into  the  meat  and  to  cook  the  remainder  in 
the  pan  beside  the  meat.  Some  cooks  cover  the  extra  stuffing  with 
buttered  paper  while  it  is  cooking  and  baste  it  at  intervals. 

Some  recipes  for  meat  dishes  of  this  character  follow,  and  others 
will  be  found  in  cookbooks. 

Mock  Duck. 

Mock  duck  is  made  by  placing  on  a  round  steak  a  stuffing  of  bread  crumb  well 
seasoned  with  chopped  onions,  butter,  chopped  suet  or  dripping,  salt,  pepper,  and  a 
little  sage,  if  the  flavor  is  relished.  The  steak  is  then  rolled  around  the  stuffing  and 
tied  with  a  string  in  several  places.  If  the  steak  seems  tough,  the  roll  is  steamed  or 
stewed  until  tender  before  roasting  in  the  oven  until  brown.  Or  it  may  be  cooked 
in  a  casserole  or  other  covered  dish,  in  which  case  a  cupful  or  more  of  water  or  soup- 
stock  should  be  poured  around  the  meat.  Mock  duck  is  excellent  served  with  currant 
or  other  acid  jelly. 

Mock  Wild  Duck. 


Salt,  pepper,  and  powdered  thyme,  sage, 
and  savory. 

2  tablespoonfuls  flour. 
1  tablespoonful  sugar. 

3  cupfuis  water  or  stock. 


1  flank  steak,  or 
1^  pounds  round  steak  cut  ^  inch  thick. 

2  lamb  kidneys, 
i  cup  butter  or  drippings. 
i  cup  cracker  crumbs. 
1  tablespoonful  minced  onion. 

Trim  the  kidneys  of  all  fat,  cords,  and  veins.  Cut  into  small  pieces  and  spread 
evenly  over  one  side  of  the  steak  together  with  the  crumbs,  onion,  and  seasonings. 
Roll  and  tie  with  a  cord.  Brown  the  roll  in  fat,  then  remove  and  make  a  gravy  by 
heating  the  flour  in  the  fat  and  adding  three  cupfuis  of  stock  or  water  and  the  sugar. 
Put  the  meat  into  the  gravy  and  cook  slowly  until  tender  in  a  covered  baking  dish, 
a  steamer,  or  a  fireless  cooker.  If  steamed  or  cooked  in  a  fireless  cooker,  the  roll 
should  be  browned  in  the  oven  before  serving. 

Veal  or  Beef  Birds. 

A  popular  dish  known  as  veal  or  beef  birds  or  by  a  variety  of  special  names  is  made 
by  taking  small  pieces  of  meat,  each  just  large  enough  for  an  individual  serving,  and 
preparing  them  in  the  same  way  as  the  mock  duck  is  prepared. 

Sometimes  variety  is  introduced  by  seasoning  Ihe  stuffing  wilh  chopped  olives  or 
tomato.     Many  cooks  prepare  their  ''birds"  by  })rowning  in  a  little  fat,  then  adding 
a  little  water,  covering  closely  and  simmering  until  tender. 
391 


28  ECONOMICAL  USE  OF  MEAT  IN  THE  HOME. 

UTIIIZINa  THE  CHEAPER  CUTS  OF  MEAT  IN  PALATABLE  DISHES. 

When  the  housekeeper  attempts  to  reduce  her  meat  bill  by  using  the 
less  expensive  cuts,  she  commonly  has  two  difficulties  to  contend  with — 
touglmess  and  lack  of  flavor.  It  has  been  shown  how  prolonged  cook- 
ing softens  the  connective  tissues  of  the  meat.  Pounding  the  meat  and 
chopping  it  are  also  employed  with  tough  cuts,  as  they  help  to  break  the 
muscle  fibers.  As  for  flavor,  the  natural  flavor  of  meat  even  in  the 
least  desirable  cuts  may  be  developed  by  careful  cooking,  notably  by 
browning  the  surface,  and  other  flavors  may  be  given  by  the  addi- 
tion of  vegetables  and  seasoning  with  condiments  of  various  kinds. 

Methods  of  preparing  inexpensive  meat  dishes  will  be  discussed 
and  practical  directions  for  them  will  be  given  in  the  following  sec- 
tions. As  often  happens  two  or  three  methods  may  be  illustrated  bj 
the  same  dish,  but  the  attempt  has  been  made  to  group  the  recipes 
according  to  their  most  salient  feature. 

PROLONGED  COOKING  AT  LOW  HEAT. 

Meat  may  be  cooked  in  water  in  a  number  of  ways  without  being 
allowed  to  reach  the  boiling  point.  With  the  ordinary  kitchen  range 
this  is  accomplished  by  cooking  on  the  cooler  part  of  the  stove  rathei 
than  on  the  hottest  part,  directly  over  the  fire.     Experience  with  a 

Lgas  stove,  particularly  if  it  has  a  small  burner  known  as  a  ^^sim- 
merer,''  usually  enables  the  cook  to  maintain  temperatures  which  are 
high  enough  to  sterilize  the  meat  if  it  has  become  accidentally  con- 
f  taminated  in  any  way  and  to  make  it  tender  without  hardening  the 
I  fibers.     The  double  boiler  would  seem  to  be  a  neglected  utensil  foi 

j  this  purpose.     Its  contents  can  easily  be  kept  up  to  a  temperature  oi 

200°  F.,  and  nothing  will  burn.  Another  method  is  by  means  of  the 
fireless  cooker.  In  this  a  high  temperature  can  be  maintained  for  a 
long  time  without  the  application  of  fresh  heat.  Still  anothei 
method  is  by  means  of  a  closely  covered  baking  dish.  Earthenware 
dishes  of  this  kind  suitable  for  serving  foods  as  well  as  for  cooking  are 
known  as  casseroles.  For  cooking  purposes  a  baldng  dish  covered 
J  with  a  plate  or  a  bean  jar  covered  with  a  saucer  may  be  substituted, 

j  The  Aladdin  Oven  has  long  been  popular  for  the  purpose  of  preserving 

I  temperatures  which  are  near  the  boiling  point  and  yet  do  not  reach  it. 

It  is  a  thoroughly  insulated  oven  which  may  be  heated  either  by  a 
kerosene  lamp  or  a  gas  jet. 

In  this  connection  directions  are  given  for  using  some  of  the  tough- 
est and  least  promising  pieces  of  meat. 

391 


^ 


\i} 


n    A 


ECONOMICAL  USE   OF   MEAT  IN   THE   HOME,  2^ 

Stewed  Shin  of  Beef. 


1  tablespoonful  of  salt. 
^  teaspoonful  of  pepper. 

2  quarts  of  boiling  water. 

1|    tablespoonfuls    of   butter   or   savory 
drippings. 


4  pounds  of  shin  of  beef. 

1  medium-sized  onion. 

1  whole  clove  and  a  small  bay  leaf. 

1  sprig  of  parsley. 

IJ  tablespoonfuls  of  flour. 

1  small  slice  of  carrot. 

Have  the  butcher  cut  the  bone  in  several  pieces.     Put  all  the  ingredients  but  the 

flour  and  butter  into  a  stewpan  and  bring  to  a  boil.     Set  the  pan  where  the  liquid 

will  just  simmer  for  six  hours,  or  after  boiling  for  five  or  ten  minutes,  put  all  into 

the  fireless  cooker  for  eight  or  nine  hours.     With  the  butter,  flour,  and  one-half 

cupful  of  the  clear  soup  from  which  the  fat  has  been  removed,  make  a  brown  sauce 

(see  p.  39);  to  this  add  the  meat  and  the  marrow  removed  from  the  bone.     Heat  and 

serve.    The  remainder  of  the  liquid  in  which  the  meat  has  been  cooked  may  be  used 

for  soup. 

Boiled  Beef  with  Horse-radish  Sauce. 

Plain  boiled  beef  may  also  be  served  with  horse-radish  sauce,  for  which  a  recipe  is 
given  on  page  38,  and  makes  a  palatable  dish.  A  little  chopped  parsley  sprinkled 
over  the  meat  when  served  is  considered  an  improvement  by  many  persons.  For  the 
sake  of  variety  the  meat  may  be  browned  like  pot  roast  before  serving. 


Scotch  Broth. 


3  pounds  mutton. 
2  tablespoonfuls  of  pearl  barley. 
2  tablespoonfuls  of  minced  onion. 
2  tablespoonfuls  of  minced  turnip. 
2  tablespoonfuls  of  minced  carrot. 


2  tablespoonfuls  of  minced  celery. 

2  tablespoonfuls  of  salt. 
1  teaspoonful  of  pepper. 

1  tablespoonful  of  minced  parsley. 

3  quarts  cold  water. 


Remove  the  bones  and  all  the  fat  from  the  mutton,  cut  the  meat  into  small  pieces  and 
put  it  into  a  stewpan  with  the  water,  chopped  vegetables,  barley,  and  all  the  season- 
ing excepting  the  parsley.  It  will  be  found  convenient  to  tie  the  bones  in  a  piece 
of  thin  white  cloth  before  adding  them  to  the  other  ingredients.  Bring  the  stew  to  a 
boil,  quickly  skim  it  and  allow  it  to  simmer  for  three  hours,  thicken  with  the  flour,  and 
add  the  chopped  parsley. 

Stuffed  Heart. 

Wash  the  heart  thoroughly  inside  and  out,  stuff  with  the  following  mixture,  and  sew 
up  the  opening:  One  cup  broken  bread  dipped  in  fat  and  browned  in  the  oven, 
I  chopped  onion,  and  salt  and  pepper  to  taste. 

Cover  the  heart  with  water  and  simmer  until  tender  or  boil  ten  minutes  and  set  in 
the  fireless  cooker  for  six  or  eight  hours.  Remove  from  the  water  about  one-half 
aour  before  serving.  Dredge  with  flour,  pepper,  and  salt,  or  sprinkle  with  crumbs 
md  bake  until  brown. 

Braised  Beef,  Pot  Roast,  and  Beef  a  la  Mode. 

The  above  names  are  given  to  dishes  made  from  the  less  tender  cuts  of  meat.  They 
^^ary  little  either  in  composition  or  method  of  preparation.  In  all  cases  the  meat  is 
Drowned  on  the  outside  to  increase  the  flavor  and  then  cooked  in  a  small  amount  of 
;7ater  in  a  closely  covered  kettle  or  other  receptacle  until  tender.  The  flavor  of  the 
iish  is  secured  by  browning  the  meat  and  by  the  addition  of  the  seasoning  vegetables, 
^any  recipes  suggest  that  the  vegetables  be  removed  before  serving  and  the  liquid  be 
hickened.  As  the  vegetables  are  usually  extremely  well-seasoned  by  means  of  the 
crowned  fat  and  the  extracts  of  the  meat,  it  seems  unfortunate  not  to  serve  them. 
391 


30  ECONOMICAL  USE   OF   MEAT   IN   THE   HOME. 

Of  course,  the  kind,  quality,  and  shape  of  the  meat  all  play  their  part  in  the  matter. 
Extra  time  is  needed  for  meats  with  a  good  deal  of  sinew  and  tough  fibers  such  as  the 
tough  steaks,  shank  cuts,  etc. ;  and  naturally  a  fillet  of  beef,  or  a  steak  from  a  prime 
cut,  will  take  less  time  than  a  thick  piece  from  the  shin.  Such  dishes  require  more 
time  and  perhaps  more  skill  in  their  preparation  and  may  involve  more  expense  for 
fuel  than  the  more  costly  cuts,  which  like  chops  or  tender  steaks  may  be  quickly 
cooked,  but  to  the  epicure,  as  well  as  to  the  average  man,  they  are  palatable  when 
rightly  prepared. 

Bean-Pot  B^oast. 


1  cup  potatoes  cut  into  small  pieces. 
^  cup  sliced  onion. 


3  pounds  mutton  (shoulder),  or 
3  pounds  round,  or  chuck  steak. 
1  cup  carrots  cut  into  small  pieces. 

Cover  the  meat  with  boiling  water.  Place  the  cover  on  the  bean  pot  and  let  the 
meat  cook  in  a  moderate  oven  for  two  hours;  then  add  the  vegetables  cut  in  half-inch 
cubes,  with  2  teaspoonfuls  salt;  cook  until  the  vegetables  are  tender,  which  will 
require  about  one  hour;  then  serve,  pouring  a  sauce  over  the  meat,  made  from  1  cup 
of  the  liquid  in  which  the  meat  was  cooked,  thickened  with  2  tablespoonfuls  of  flour. 


Hungarian  Goulash. 


2  pounds  top  round  of  beef. 

A  little  flour. 

2  ounces  salt  pork. 

2  cups  tomatoes. 

1  stalk  celery. 


1  onion. 

2  bay  leaves. 

6  whole  cloves. 
6  peppercorns. 
1  blade  mace. 


Cut  the  beef  into  2-inch  pieces  and  sprinkle  with  flour;  fry  the  salt  pork  until 
light  brown;  add  the  beef  and  cook  slowly  for  about  thirty-five  minutes,  stirring 
occasionally.  Cover  with  water  and  simmer  about  two  hours;  season  with  salt  and 
pepper  or  paprika. 

From  the  vegetables  and  spices  a  saiiee  is  made  as  follows:  Cook  in  sufficient  water 
to  cover  for  twenty  minutes;  then  rub  through  a  sieve,  and  add  to  some  of  the  stock 
in  which  the  meat  was  cooked.  Thicken  with  flour,  using  2  tablespoonfuls  (moistened 
with  cold  water)  to  each  cup  of  liquid,  and  season  with  salt  and  paprika. 

Serve  the  meat  on  a  platter  with  the  sauce  poured  over  it.  Potatoes,  caiTots,  and 
green  peppers  cooked  until  tender,  and  cut  into  small  pieces-  or  narrow  strips,  are 
usually  sprinkled  over  the  dish  when  served,  and  noodles  may  be  arranged  in  a  border 
upon  the  platter. 

Goulash  is  a  Hungarian  dish  which  has  come  to  be  a  favorite  in  the  United  States. 

CASSEROLE  COOKERy, 

A  casserole  is  a  heavy  earthenware  dish  with  a  cover.  A  substitute  for  it  can 
easily  be  improvised  by  using  any  heavy  earthenware  dish  with  a  heavy  plate  for  the 
cover.  A  casserole  presentable  enough  in  appearance  to  be  put  on  the  table  serves 
the  double  purpose  of  baking  and  serving  dish. 

A  suitable  cut  of  beef  or  veal,  and  it  may  well  be  one  of  the  cheaper  'cuts,  as  the 
long,  slow  cooking  insures  tenderness,  may  be  cooked  in  a  casserole. 

Poultry  and  other  meats  besides  beef  or  veal  can  be  cooked  in  this  manner.  Chicken 
cooked  in  a  casserole,  which  is  a  favorite  and  expensive  dish  in  good  hotels  and  restau- 
rants, may  be  easily  prepared  in  the  home,  and  casserole  cookery  is  to  be  recommended 
for  a  tough  chicken. 

The  heat  must  be  moderate  and  the  cooking  must  occupy  a  long  time.     Hurried 
cooking  in  a  casserole  is  out  of  the  question.     If  care  is  taken  in  this  particular,  and 
suitable  seasonings  are  used,  few  who  know  anything  of  cooking  should  go  astray. 
391 


ECONOMICAD  USE   OF   MEAT   IN   THE   HOME.  SS 

Chopped  meat  also  may  be  cooked  in  a  casserole  and  this  utensil  is  particularly 
useful  for  the  purpose,  because  the  food  is  served  in  the  same  dish  in  which  it  is  cooked 
and  may  easily  be  kept  hot,  a  point  which  is  important  with  chopped  meats,  which 
usually  cool  rapidly. 

Casserole  Roast. 


3  or  4  pounds  of  round  or  rump  of  beef. 
A  slice  of  salt  pork. 
A  few  peppercorns. 


One-fourth  each  of  a  carrot,  a  turnip,  an 
onion,  and  a  head  of  celery  cut  into 
small  pieces. 


Try  out  the  pork.  Brown  the  meat  on  both  sides  in  the  fat.  Put  in  a  casserole 
with  the  vegetables  around  it,  add  2  cupfuls  of  water  or  stock.  Cover  and  cook  in 
a  hot  oven  three  hours,  basting  occasionally.  A  sau€e  or  gravy  can  be  made  with 
water,  flour,  and  some  of  the  juice  left  in  the  casserole. 

Casserole  or  Italian  Hash. 

Boil  one-fourth  pound  of  macaroni,  drain  and  put  into  a  buttered  casserole,  add  a 
little  butter  and  grated  cheese.  Push  the  macaroni  to  the  sides  of  the  dish  and  fill 
the  center  with  chopped  cooked  meat  seasoned  to  suit  the  taste  of  the  family.  A 
little  sausage  gives  a  good  flavor  to  this  dish.  Place  in  the  oven  until  hot  throughout 
and  serve. 

A  very  good  modification  of  this  is  made  by  using  raw  instead  of  cooked  meat. 
For  this  one-half  pound  of  round  steak  is  sufficient  for  a  family  of  six.  This  should  be 
cut  into  small  pieces,  browned,  and  cooked  until  tender  in  water  with  the  onions 
and  other  seasonings.  An  hour  before  the  cooking  is  complete,  add  one-half  can  of 
tomatoes.  Before  serving,  the  meat  may  be  mixed  with  the  sauce,  and  the  whole  is 
poured  (^ver  the  macaroni. 

MEAT  COOKED  WITH  VINEGAR. 

Dishes  of  similar  sort  as  regards  cooking,  but  in.  which  vinegar  is 
used  to  give  flavor  as  well  as  to  soften  the  meat  and  make  it  tender, 
are  the  following : 

Sour  Beef. 

Take  a  piece  of  beef  from  the  rump  or  the  lower  round,  cover  with  'vanegar  or  with 
a  half-and-half  mixture  of  vinegar  and  water,  add  sliced  onion,  bay  leaves,  and  a  few 
mixed  whole  spices  and  salt.  Allow  to  stand  a  week  in  winter  or  three  or  four  days 
in  summer;  turn  once  a  day  and  keep  covered.  When  ready  to  cook,  brown  the  meat 
in  fat,  using  an  enameled  iron  pan,  strain  the  liquid  over  it  and  cook  until  tender; 
thicken  the  gravy  with  flour  or  ginger  snaps  (which  may  be  broken  up  first),  strain 
it,  and  pour  over  the  sliced  meat.     Some  cooks  add  cream. 

Sour  Beefsteak. 

Round  steak  may  be  cooked  in  water  in  which  there  is  a  little  vinegar,  or  if  the  time 
is  sufficient,  it  may  be  soaked  for  a  few  hours  in  vinegar  and  water  and  then  cooked 
in  a  casserole  or  in  some  similar  way. 

POUNDEB  MEAT. 

Pounding  meat  before  cooking  is  an  old-fashioned  method  of 
making  it  tender,  but  while  it  has  the  advantage  of  breaking  down 
the  tough  tissues  it  has  the  disadvantage  of  being  likely  to  drive  out 
the  juices  and  with  them  the  flavor.     A  very  good  way  of  escaping 

391 


^0  ECONOMICAL  USE  OF   MEAT  IN   THE  HOME. 

this  difficulty  is  pounding  flour  into  the  meat;  this  catches  and  retains 
the  juices.  Below  are  given  the  recipes  for  two  palatable  dishes  in 
which  this  is  done  ^ 


Pound  flour  into  both  sides  of  a  round  steak,  using  as  much  as  the  meat  will  take  up. 
This  may  be  done  with  a  meat  pounder  or  with  the  edge  of  a  heavy  plate.  Fry  in 
drippings,  butter,  or  other  fat  in  a  Scotch  bowl,  or  if  more  convenient  in  an  ordinary 
iron  kettle  or  a  frying  pan;  then  add  water  enough  to  cover  it.  Cover  the  dish  very 
tightly  so  that  the  steam  can  not  escape  and  allow  the  meat  to  simmer  for  two  hours  or 
until  it  is  tender.  One  advantage  of  this  dish  is  that  ordinarily  it  is  ready  to  serve 
when  the  meat  is  done  as  the  gravy  is  already  thickened.  However,  if  a  large 
amount  of  fat  is  used  in  the  frj/ing,  the  gravy  may  not  be  thick  enough  and  must  be 
blended  with  flour. 

Spanish  Beefsteak. 

Take  a  piece  of  round  steak  weighing  2  pounds  and  about  an  inch  thick;  pound  until 
thin,  season  with  salt  and  Cayenne  pepper,  cover  with  a  layer  of  bacon  or  salt  pork, 
cut  into  thin  slices,  roll  and  tie  with  a  cord.  Pour  around  it  half  a  cupful  of  milk  and 
h^fa  cupful  of  water.  Place  in  a  covered  baking  dish  and  cook  two  hours,  basting 
'occasionally. 

CHOPPED  MEAT. 

Chopping  meat  is  one  of  the  principal  methods  of  making  tough 
and  inexpensive  meat  tender^  i.  e.,  dividing  it  finely  and  thus  cutting 
the  connective  tissue  into  small  bits.  Such  meats  have  another  advan- 
tage in  that  they  may  be  cooked  quickly  and  eiconomj^allj. 

In  broiling  chopped  meat  the  fact  should  be  kept  in  mind  that  there  is  no  reason 
why  it  should  not  be  cooked  like  the  best  and  most  expensive  tenderloin.  The  only 
reason  that  ever  existed  for  difference  in  treatment  was  the  toughness  of  the  connect- 
ive tissue,  and  this  feature  has  been  overcome  by  the  chopping.  The  ideal  to  be 
reached  in  broiling  steak  is  to  sear  the  surface  very  quickly,  so  that  the  juices  which 
contain  the  greater  part  of  the  flavoring  of  the  meat  shall  be  kept  in,  and  then  to  allow 
the  heat  to  penetrate  to  the  inside  until  the  whole  mass  is  cooked  to  the  taste  of  the 
family.  To  pass  the  point  where  the  meat  ceases  to  be  puffy  and  juicy  and  becomes 
flat  and  hard  is  very  undesirable,  as  the  palatability  is  then  lost.  Exactly  the  same 
ideal  should  be  kept  in  mind  in  broiling  chopped  meat.  If  this  were  always  done, 
hard,  compact,  tasteless  balls  or  cakes  of  meat  would  be  served  less  often.  To  begin 
with,  the  broiler  should  be  even  more  carefully  greased  than  for  a  whole  steak.  This 
makes  it  possible  to  form  the  balls  or  cakes  of  chopped  meat  with  very  little  pressure 
without  running  the  risk  of  having  them  pulled  to  pieces  by  adhering  to  the  wires  of 
the  broiler.  They  should  be  heated  on  both  sides  even  more  quickly  than  the  steak, 
because  the  chopping  has  provided  more  ways  of  escape  for  the  juice,  and  these  open- 
ings should  be  sealed  as  soon  as  possible.  The  interior  should  be  cooked  to  the  taste 
of  the  family  just  as  the  steak  is. 

In  regard  to  broiling  it  may  incidentally  be  noted  that  housekeepers  often  make 
themselves  unnecessary  work  when  broiling  under  gas  by  allowing  the  juice  from 
steaks  or  meat  balls  to  drop  into  thelarge  pan  under  the  rack.  A  smaller  pan  set  in 
the  larger  one  may  be  made  to  catch  all  the  juice  and  fat  and  is  much  easier  to  wash. 
It  serves  also  to  economize  the  gravy. 

Chopped  raw  meat  of  almost  any  kind  can  be  very  quickly  made  into  a  savory  dish 
by  cooking  it  with  water  or  with  water  and  milk  for  a  short  time,  then  thickening  with 
391 


ECONOMICAL  USE   OF   MEAT   IN   THE   HOME.  3^ 

butter  and  flour,  and  adding  different  seasonings  as  relished,  either  pepper  and  salt 
alone,  or  onion  juice,  celery,  or  tomato.  Such  a  dish  may  be  made  to  ''go  further '*^ 
by  serving  it  on  toast  or  with  a  border  of  rice  or  in  some  similar  combination. 

Tough.  Portions  of  Porterhouse  Steak. 

Before  speaking  of  the  cooking  of  the  cuts  that  lack  tenderness  throughout,  it  may  be- 
well  to  refer  to  the  fact  that  the  flank  end  of  the  porterhouse  is  to  be  classed  with  the- 
toughest  of  cuts  and  with  those  which,  when  cooked  alone,  are  with  difficulty  made 
tender  even  by  long  heating.  Mock  duck,  which  is  commonly  made  out  of  flank  steak, 
can  be  rendered  tender  enough  to  be  palatable  only  by  long  steaming  or  cooking  in 
water  (see  p.  27)  and  yet  people  quite  generally  broil  this  part  of  the  steak  with  the  ten- 
derloin and  expect  it  to  be  eaten.  The  fact  is  that  to  broil  this  part  of  the  porterhouse 
steak  is  not  good  management.  It  is  much  more  profitable  to  put  it  into  the  soup 
kettle  or  to  make  it  into  a  stew.  In  families  where  most  of  the  members  are  away 
during  the  day  the  latter  is  a  good  plan,  for  the  end  of  a  steak  makes  a  good  stew  for 
two  or  three  people.  This  may  be  seasoned  with  vegetables  left  from  dinner,  or  two 
or  three  olives  cut  up  in  gravy  will  give  a  very  good  flavor;  or  a  few  drops  of  some  one 
of  the  bottled  meat  sauces,  if  the  flavor  is  relished,  or  a  little  Ohili  sauce  may  be 
added  to  the  stew.  But  if  the  tough  end  of  a  porterhouse  is  needed  with  the  rest,  a 
good  plan  is.to  put  it  through  a  meat  grinder,  make  it  into  balls,  and  broil  it  with  the 
tender  portions.  Each  member  of  the  family  can  then  be  served  with  a  piece  of  the 
tenderloin  and  a  meat  ball.  If  the  chopped  meat  is  seasoned  with  a  little  onioa 
juice,  grated  lemon  rind,  or  chopped  parsley,  a  good  flavor  is  imparted  to  the  gravy. 

Hamburg  Steak. 

This  name  is  commonly  given  to  inexpensive  cuts  of  beef  chopped,  seasoned  a  little, 
shaped  into  small  balls  or  into  one  large  thin  cake,  and  quickly  broiled  in  the  way 
that  a  tender  steak  would  be.  Owing  to  the  quick  cooking  much  of  the  natural  flavor 
of  the  meat  is  developed  and  retained.  The  fact  should  be  kept  in  mind  that  Ham- 
bui^  steak  must  be  made  from  fresh,  well-ground  mea.t.  It  is  much  safer  to  chop  the 
meat  at  home,  as  chopped  meat  spoils  very  quickly.  Much  depends,  too,  upon  brown- 
ing it  sufficiently  to  bring  out  the  flavors.  Many  cooks  think  that  Hamburg  steak  ia 
improved  if  the  meat  is  mixed  with  milk  before  it  is  cooked. 

In  some  parts  of  the  country,  and  particularly  in  some  of  the  Southern  States,  two 
kinds  of  beef  are  on  sale.  One  is  imported  from  other  parts  of  the  country  and  is  of 
higher  price.  The  other,  known  locally  as  ^'native  beef, "  is  sometimes  lacking  in 
flavor  and  in  fat  and  is  usually  tougher.  Southern  native  beef  such  as  is  raised  in 
Florida  is  almost  invariably,  however,  of  extremely  good  flavor,  due  presumably  to 
the  feed  or  other  conditiong  under  which  it  is  raised.  By  chopping  such  meat  and 
cooking  it  as  Hamburg  steak,  a  dish  almost  as  palatable  as  the  best  cuts  of  the  more 
expensive  beef  inay  be  obtained.  In  such  cases,  however,  it  is  desirable  because  of 
the  low  percentage  of  fat  to  add  suet  or  butter  to  the  meat.  The  reason  for  this  is  that 
in  the  cooking  the  water  of  the  juice  when  unprotected  by  fat  evaporates  too  quickly 
and  leaves  the  meat  dry.  This  may  be  prevented  by  adding  e^  as  well  as  fat,  for  the 
albumen  of  the  egg  hardens  quickly  and  tends  to  keep  in  the  juices.  The  proportion 
should  be  1  egg  to  1|  pounds  of  meat. 

Savory  KoUs. 

Savory  rolls  in  great  variety  are  made  out  of  chopped  meat  either  with  or  without 
egg.  The  variety  is  socured  by  the  flavoring  materials  used  and  by  the  sauces  with 
which  the  baked  rolls  are  served.  A  few  recipes  will  be  given  below.  While  these 
definite  directions  are  given  it  should  be  remembered  that  a  few  general  principles 


34  ECONOMICAL  USE   OF   MEAT  IN   THE   HOME. 

borne  in  mind  make  recipes  unnecessary  and  make  it  possible  to  utilize  whatever  may 
happen  to  be  on  hand.  Appetizing  rolls  are  made  with  beef  and  pork  mixed.  The 
proportion  varies  from  two  parts  of  beef  and  one  of  pork  to  two  of  pork  and  one  of  beef. 
The  rolls  are  always  improved  by  laying  thin  slices  of  salt  pork  or  bacon  over  them, 
which  keep  the  surface  moistened  with  fat  during  the  roasting.  These  slices  should  be 
scored  on  the  edge,  so  that  they  will  not  curl  up  in  cooking.  The  necessity  for  the  salt 
pork  is  greater  when  the  chopped  meat  is  chiefly  beef  than  when  it  is  largely  pork  or 
veal.  Bread  crumbs  or  bread  moistened  in  water  can  always  be  added,  as  it  helps  to 
make  the  dish  go  farther.  When  onions,  green  peppers,  or  other  vegetables  are  used, 
they  should  always  be  thoroughly  cooked  in  fat  before  being  put  in  the  roll,  for  usually 
they  do  not  cook  sufficiently  in  the  length  of  time  it  takes  to  cook  the  meat.  Sausage 
makes  a  good  addition  to  the  roll,  but  it  is  usually  cheaper  to  use  unseasoned  pork 
meat  with  the  addition  of  a  little  sage. 

Cannelon  of  Beef. 

This  dish  is  prepared  by  making  chopped  beef  into  a  roll  and  baking  it  wrapped  in  a 
buttered  paper,  a  method  designed  to  keep  in  the  steam  and  so  insm-e  a  moist  tender 
dish.  The  paper  must  be  removed  before  serving.  The  roll  should  be  basted  occa- 
sionally with  butter  and  water  or  drippings  and  water.  In  preparing  the  roll  an  egg 
may  be  added  for  each  pound  and  a  half  of  meat,  and  chopped  parsley,  onion  juice, 
lemon  peel,  or  finely  chopped  green  peppers  make  good  seasoning.  A  thickened  gravy 
may  be  made  from  the  drippings,  the  liquid  used  being  either  water  or  tomato  juice 
(seep.  39). 

Strips  of  pork  laid  on  the  roll  may  be  substituted  for  the  buttered  paper  and  basting. 

Filipino  Beef. 


legg. 

2  cups  of  stewed  tomatoes. 

2  slices  of  bacon, 

2  tablespoonfuls  of  butter. 

4  tablespoonfuls  of  flour. 


1  pound  round  beef. 

I  pound  lean  fresh  pork. 

1  small  onion. 

1  green  pepper. 

1  teaspoonful  of  salt. 

1  cup  of  soft  stale  bread  crumbs. 

Remove  the  seeds  from  the  pepper  and  put  it  through  the  meat  grinder  with  the 
meats  and  the  onion.  Add  crumbs,  eggy  and  salt.  Make  into  a  roll,  place  in  a  shallow 
baking  dish,  pour  the  strained  tomatoes  around  it,  put  the  bacon  on  top,  and  bake  forty 
minutes,  basting  with  the  tomatoes.  Thicken  the  gravy  with  the  flour  cooked  in  the 
butter.  A  little  seasoning  such  as  a  bit  of  bay  leaf,  a  clove,  and  a  small  piece  of 
onion  improves  the  tomato  sauce.  As  the  pepper  and  onion  are  not  likely  to  be  cooked 
as  soon  as  the  meat,  it  is  well  to  fry  them  in  a  little  fat  before  adding  to  the  other 
ingredients. 

This  dish  will  serve  6  to  8  people.  When  the  meat  is  20  cents  a  pound  and  every 
other  item  is  valued  at  usual  town  mai'ket  prices,  the  dish  costs  about  50  cents.  If  the 
meat  costs  only  10  cents  per  pound  and  vegetables  from  the  garden  are  used  the  initial 
cost  of  the  dish  will  be  small.  Since  no  vegetable  except  potatoes  or  rice  need  be 
served  with  this  dish,  it  may  be  said  to  answer  the  purpose  of  both  meat  and  vegetable. 


Mock  Rabbit. 


[^  pound  roimd  steak,  and 
[1  pound  sausage; 

or 
(1  pound  round  steak,  and 
ll  pound  sausage  meat. 
891 


3  slices  of  bread  moistened  with  water. 

legg. 

1  onion. 

I  pound  salt  pork. 

Pepper  and  salt. 


r 


ECONOMICAL   USE   OF   MEAT   IN    THE   HOME.  85 


Chop  the  meat.  Chop  the  onion  and  cook  (but  do  not  brown)  it  in  the  fat  tried  out 
of  a  small  portion  of  the  pork.  Add  the  bread  and  cook  a  few  minutes.  ^Vhen  this  is 
cool,  mix  all  the  ingredients  and  form  into  a  long  round  roll.  The  surface  can  easily  be 
made  smooth  if  the  hand  is  wet  with  cold  water.  Lay  the  remaining  pork  cut  in  thin 
Flices  on  top  and  bake  forty  minutes  in  a  hot  oven.  The  sausage  may  be  omitted  if 
desired  and  other  seasoning  used. 

Veal  Loaf. 


3  pounds  veal. 

1  pound  salt  pork. 

6  soda  crackers  rolled  fine. 


3  eggs  well  beaten. 
I  teaspoonful  pepper, 
J  teaspoonful  salt. 


Chop  the  meat  mixed  with  the  other  ingredients,  shape,  and  bake  three  hours,  bast- 
ing occasionally  with  pork  fat.  Use  one-fourth  cup  of  fat  for  this  purpose.  If  the  roll 
is  pierced  occasionally  the  fat  will  penetrate  more  effectually.  Veal  loaf  may  also  be 
cooked  in  bread  pans.     Some  persons  cook  the  veal  before  chopping. 

DEVELOPIITG  AND  IMPEOVIHG  FLAVOR  OF  MEAT. 

The  typical  meat  flavors  are  very  palatable  to  most  persons,  even 
when  they  are  constantly  tasted,  and  consequently  the  better  cuts  of 
meat  in  which  they  are  well  developed  can  be  cooked  and  served 
without  attention  being  paid  especially  to  flavor.  Careful  cooking 
aids  in  developing  the  natural  flavor  of  some  of  the  cheaper  cuts,  and 
such  a  result  is  to  be  sought  wherever  it  is  possible.  Bro^vning  also 
Imngs  out_flavors  agreeable  to  most  palates.  Aside  from  these  two 
ways  of  increasing  the  flavor  of  the  meat  itself  there  are  countless 
ways  of  adding  flavor  to  otherwise  rather  tasteless  meats.  The 
flavors  may  be  added  in  preparing  the  meat  for  cooking,  as  in  various 
seasoned  dishes  already  described,  or  they  may  be  supplied  to  cooked 
meat  in  the  form  of  sauces. 


RETAmiNG  NATURAL  FLAVOR. 

As  has  already  been  pointed  out,  it  is  extremely  difficult  to  retain 
the  flavor-giving  extractives  in  a  piece  of  meat  so  tough  as  to  require 
prolonged  cooking.  It  is  sometimes  partially  accomplished  by  first 
searing  the  exterior  of  the  meat  and  thus  preventing  the  escape  of  the 
juices.  Another  device,  illustrated  by  the  following  recipe,  is  to  let 
them  escape  into  the  gravy  which  is  served  with  the  meat  itself.  A 
similar  principle  is  applied  when  roasts  are  basted  with  their  own 
juice. 

Bound  Steak  on  Biscuits. 

Cut  round  steak  into  pieces  about  one-half  inch  square,  cover  with  water  and  cook 
it  at  a  temperature  just  below  the  boiling  point  until  it  is  tender,  or  boil  -for  five  min- 
utes, and  while  still  hot  put  into  the  firelcss  cooker  and  leave  it  for  five  hours.  Thicken 
the  gravy  with  flour  mixed  with  water,  allowing  2  level  tablespoonfuls  to  a  cup  of 
water.  Pour  the  meat  and  gravy  over  split  baking-powder  biscuits  so  baked  that  they 
have  a  large  amount  of  crust. 
S91 


36  ECONOMICAL  USE  OF  MEAT  IN  THE  HOME^ 

FLAVOR  OE  BROWNED  MEAT  OR  FAT. 

Next  to  the  unchanged  flavor  of  the  meat  itself  comes  the  flavor 
which  is  secured  by  bro-^vning  the  meat  with  fat.  The  outside  slices 
of  roast  meat  have  this  browned  flavor  in  marked  degree.  Except 
in  the  case  of  roasts,  browning  for  flavor  is  usually  accomplished  by 
heating  the  meat  in  a  frying  pan  in  fat  which  has  been  tried  out  of 
pork  or  in  suet  or  butter.  Care  should  be  taken  that  the  fat  is  not 
scorched.  The  chief  reason  for  the  bad  opinion  in  which  fried  food 
is  held  by  many  is  that  it  almost  always  means  eating  burned  fat. 
When  fat  is  heated  too  high  it  splits  up  into  fatty  acids  and  glycerin, 
and  from  the  glycerin  is  formed  a  substance  (acrolein)  which  has  a 
very  irritating  effect  upon  the  mucous  membrane.  All  ^vill  recall 
that  the  fumes  of  scorched  fat  make  the  eyes  wat^r.  It  is  not  sur- 
prising that  such  a  substance,  if  taken  into  the  stomach,  should  cause 
digestive  disturbance.  Fat  in  itself  is  a  very  valuable  food,  and  the 
objection  to  fried  foods  because  they  may  be  fat  seems  illogical.  If 
they  supply  burned  fat  there  is  a  good  reason  for  suspicion.  Many 
housekeepers  cook  bacon  in  the  oven  on  a  wire  broiler  ov^r  a  pan  and 
believe  it  more  w^holesome  than  fiied  bacon.  The  reason,  of  course, 
is  that  thus  cooked  in  the  oven  there  is  less  chance  for  the  bacon  becom- 
ing impregnated  wdth  burned  fat.  Where  fried  salt  pork  is  much  used 
good  cooks  know  that  it  must  not  be  cooked  over  a  very  hot  fire,  even 
if  they  have  never  heard  of  the  chemistry  of  burned  fat.  The  recipe 
for  bean-pot  roast  (p.  30)  and  other  similar  recipes  may  be  varied  by 
browning  the  meat  or  part  of  it  before  covering  with  water.  This 
results  in  keeping  some  of  the  natural  flavoring  within  the  meat  itself 
and  allowing  less  to  go  into  the  gravy.  The  flavor  of  veal  can  be  very 
greatly  improved  ill  this  way. 

The  following  old-fashioned  dishes  made  with  pork  owe  their 
savoriness  chiefly  to  the  flavor  of  browned  fat  or  meat : 

Salt  Pork  with  Milk  Gravy. 

Cut  salt  or  cured  pork  into  thin  slices.  If  very  salt,  cover  with  hot  water  and  allow 
it  to  stand  for  ten  minutes.  Score  the  rind  of  the  slices  and  fry  slowly  until 
they  are  a  golden  brown.  Make  a  milk  gravy  by  heating  flour  in  the  fat  that  has 
been  tried  out,  allowing  2  tablespoonfuls  of  fat  and  2  tablespoonfuls  of  flour  to  each  cup 
of  milk.  This  is  a  good  way  to  use  skim  milk,  which  is  as  rich  in  protein  as  whole 
milk.  The  pork  and  milk  gravy  served  with  boiled  or  baked  potatoes  makes  a  cheap 
and  simple  meal,  but  one  that  most  people  like  very  much.  Bacon  is  often  used  in 
place  of  salt  pork  in  making  this  dish. 

Fried  Salt  Pork  with  Salt  Codfish  or  "  Salt-fish  Dinner." 


4  tablespoonfuls  flour. 
A  speck  of  salt. 


§  pound  salt  pork. 

1  pound  codfish. 

2  cups  of  milk  (skim  milk  will  do). 
Cut  the  codfish  into  strips,  soak  in  lukewarm  water  and  then  cook  in  water  until 

tender  but  do  not  allow  the  water  to  come  to  the  boiling  point  except  for  a  veiy  short 
391 


ECONOMICAL  USE   OF   MEAT  IN   THE   HOME.  37 

time  as  prolonged  boiling  may  make  it  tough.  Cut  the  pork  into  one-fourth  inch 
slices  £ind  cut  eeveral  gashes  in  each  piece.  Fry  very  slowly  until  golden  brown-  and 
remove,  pouring  off  the  fat.  Out  of  4  tablespoonfuls  of  the  fat,  the  flour,  and  the  milk 
make  a  white  sauce.  Dish  up  the  codfish  with  pieces  of  pork  around  it  and  serve  with 
boiled  potatoes  and  beets.  Some  persons  serve  the  pork,  and  the  fat  from  it,  in  a 
gravy  boat  so  it  can  be  added  as  relished. 

FLAVORING  VEGETABLES,  HEBBS,  SPICES,  ETC. 

Many  flavorings  are  used  in  meat  dishes,  some  of  which  are  familiar 
to  all  cooks — onions,  carrots,  turnips,  and  garlic  being  perhaps  the 
most  widely  known.  Butter,  too,  may  be  regarded  as  one  of  the 
most  common  seasonings,  and  of  course  makes  the  dish  richer.  Meat 
extract  is  also  used  for  flavoring  many  meat  dishes  and  other  foods^ 
as  are  also,  though  less  commonly,  similar  extracts  made  from  clams 
or  other  ^'sea  food.'^  The  following  list  includes  these  with  various 
others,  a  number  of  which  it  is  convenient  to  keep  always  on  hand  r 
Onions,  carrots,  green  peppers,  parsnips,  turnips,  tomatoes,  fresh, 
canned  or  dried;  celery  tops  and  parsley,  either  fresh  or  dried;  sage, 
savory,  thyme,  sweet  marjoram,  bay  leaf,  garlic,  lemon  rind,  vinegar, 
capers,  pickles,  olives,  currant  jelly,  curry  powder,  cloves,  pepper 
corns,  celery  seed,  meat  extract.  Chili  sauce,  pepper  sauce,  or  some 
similar  hot  or  sharp  sauce,  and  some  kind  of  good  commercial  meat 
sauce.     Some  hints  regarding  the  use  of  such  flavorings  follow: 

Flavor  of  fried  vegetables. — Most  of  the  stews,  soups,  braised  meats,  and  pot  roasta 
are  very  much  improved  if  the  flavoring  vegetables  which  they  contain,  such  aa 
carrots,  turnips,  onions,  celery,  or  green  peppers,  are  fried  in  a  little  fat  before  being 
cooked  with  the  meat.  This  need  not  complicate  the  preparation  of  the  meat  or 
increase  the  number  of  utensils  used,  for  the  meat  itself  is  usually  seared  over  in  fat, 
and  the  vegetables  can  be  cooked  in  the  same  fat  before  the  browning  of  the  meat. 

Onion  juice. — Cookbooks  usually  say  that  onion  juice  should  be  extracted  by  cutting 
an  onion  in  two  and  rubbing  the  cut  surface  against  a  grater.  Considering  how  hard 
it  is  to  wash  a  grater,  this  method  has  its  drawbacks.  Small  amounts  of  juice  may 
be  obtained  in  the  following  simpler  way:  Peel  the  onion  and  extract  a  few  drops  of 
juice  by  pressing  one  side  with  the  dull  edge  of  a  knife. 

Green  peppers. — The  flavor  of  green  peppers  gives  an  acceptable  variety.  The 
seed  should  always  be  removed.  The  peppers  should  be  chopped  and  added  to 
chopped  meat  or  other  meat  dishes.  Meat  mixed  with  bread  crumbs  may  be  baked 
in  the  pepper  shells  and  the  stuffed  peppers  served  as  a  separate  dish. 

Parsley. — It  is  easy  to  raise  parsley  by  growing  it  in  a  pot  in  the  kitchen  window 
and  thus  to  have  it  always  on  hand  fresh,  or  the  leaves  may  be  kept  for  a  long  time  if 
sealed  up  in  a  fruit  jar  and  stored  in  a  cool  place.  Parsley,  mint,  and  celery  tops  may 
all  be  dried,  rubbed  into  fine  bits,  and  kept  in  air-tight  jars.  Recipes  usually  say  to 
chop  fresh  parsley  with  a  sharp  knife  on  a  board.  But  a  board  is  a  hard  thing  to  wash 
and  a  plate  serves  the  purpose  quite  as  well. 

Bay  leaf. — Bay  leaf  is  one  of  the  best  and  at  the  same  time  one  of  the  most-abused 
flavors.  In  sm.all  quantities  it  gives  a  very  pleasant  flavor  to  soups  and  gravies,  but 
in  large  quantities  it  gives  a  rank  resin-like  taste.  Remember  that  half  of  a  bay  leaf 
is  the  allowance  for  3  quarts  of  soup  stock.  This  will  indicate  how  small  a  quantity 
should  be  used  for  the  portion  of  gravy  usually  served  at  a  meal.  With  this  precaution 
391 


38  ECONOMICAL  USE  OF   MEAT  IN   THE   HOME. 

in  mind,  bay  leaf  may  be  recommended  as  a  flavoring  for  many  sauces,  particularly 
tomato  sauce. 

A  kitclien  bouquet. — A  ^'bouquet"  such  as  is  often  referred  to  in  recipes  may  be 
made  as  follows:  A  sprig  each  of  parsley,  savory,  and  thj^me,  one  small  leaf  of  sage,  and 
a  bay  leaf.  This  will  flavor  1  gallon  of  soup  when  cooked  in  it  for  an  hour  and  should 
not  remain  in  it  longer. 

Horse-radish. — Horse-radish,  like  mustard,  is  more  often  served  with  meat  than  used 
to  flavor  it  during  cooking.  A  very  palatable  sauce,  especially  good  with  boiled 
beef,  is  made  by  adding  grated  horse-radish  and  a  little  vinegar  to  a  little  whipped 
cream,  or  as  follows:  Thicken  milk  with  cracker  crumbs  by  heating  them  together  in 
a  double  boiler,  using  3  tablespoonfuls  of  cracker  crumbs  to  1|  cups  of  milk.  Add 
one-third  of  a  cup  of  grated  horse-radish,  3  tablespoonfuls  of  butter,  and  J  teaspoonf  ul 
of  salt;  or  thicken  with  butter  and  flour  some  of  the  water  in  which  the  meat  was  boiled, 
add  a  generous  quantity  (1  or  2  tablespoonfuls)  of  grated  horse-radish,  boil  a  short 
time,  and  serve.  This  recipe  is  the  most  usual  in  German  homes  wdiere  the  sauce  is 
a  favorite. 

Acid  flavoring. — Vinegar,  lemon  juice,  and  bout  jelly,  like  currant,  are  often  used 
to  flavor  the  thick  gravies  which  are  a  part  of  meat  stew  or  which  are  served  with  it. 
Vinegar  is  an  old-fashioned  relish  which  was  often  added  to  bacon  or  salt  pork  and 
greens,  pork  and  beans,  corned  beef  and  cabbage,  and  similar  dishes.  These  flavors 
combine  well  with  that  of  brown  flour,  but  not  with  onions  or  other  vegetables  of 
strong  flavor.  The  idea  that  vinegar  used  in  small  quantities  is  unwholesome  seems 
to  be  without  foundation. 

Pickles. — Chopped  pickles  are  sometimes  added  to  the  gravy  served  with  boiled 
mutton.  They  are  cheaper  than  capers  and  serve  somewhat  the  same  purpose. 
Chopped  pickles  are  also  very  commonly  used  in  sauces  for  fish  and  in  many  others 
to  give  a  distinctive  flavor. 

Olives. — Chopped  olives  also  make  a  welcome  variety  in  meat  sauce,  and  are  not 
expensive  if  they  are  bought  in  bulk.  They  will  not  spoil  if  a  little  olive  oil  is  poured 
on  the  top  of  the  liquor  in  which  they  are  kept.  This  liquor  should  always  completely 
cover  them. 

CMli  sauce,  commercial  meat  sauces,  etc. — Recipes  often  may  be  varied  by  the 
addition  of  a  little  Chili  sauce,  tomato  catsup,  or  a  commercial  meat  sauce.  These 
may  be  called  emergency  flavors  and  used  when  it  is  not  convenient  to  prepare  other 
kinds  of  gravies. 

Sausage. — A  little  sausage  or  chopped  ham  may  be  used  in  chopped  beef. 

Curry  powder. — This  mixture  of  spices  which  apparently  originated  in  India,  but 
which  is  now  a  common  commercial  product  everywhere,  is  a  fa-vorite  flavoring  for 
veal,  lamb,  or  poultry.  The  precaution  mentioned  in  connection  with  bay  leaves, 
however,  should  be  observed.  A  small  amount  gives  a  good  flavor.  It  is  usually 
used  to  season  the  thick  sauces  with  which  meats  are  served  or  in  which  they  are 
allowed  to  simmer.  While  the  term  "  curry '' is  usually  employed  to  describe  a  par- 
ticular mixture  of  spices  made  up  for  the  trade,  it  has  another  meaning.  The  words 
''curry  "  or  "curried  "  are  sometimes  used  to  describe  highly  seasoned  dishes  of  meat, 
eggs,  or  vegetables  prepared  by  methods  that  have  come  from  India  or  other  parts  of 
the  East. 

India  Curry. 


1 


1|  pounds  veal. 

I  cup  of  butter  or  drippings. 


2  onions  or  less. 

J  tablespoonful  curry  or  less. 


Brown  meat  either  without  fat  or  with  very  little  and  cut  into  small  pieces. 

Fry  the  onions  in  the  butter,  remove  them,  add  the  meat  and  curry  powder.  Cover 
the  meat  with  boiling  water  and  cook  until  tender.  Serve  with  a  border  of  rice. 
This  dish  is  so  savory  that  it  can  be  made  to  go  a  long  way  by  serving  vvith  a  large 
391 


r 


ECONOMICAL   USE   OF   MEAT   IN   THE   HOME.  39 


amount  of  rice.  The  two  oniorxs  and  one-half  tablespoonful  of  curry  powder  are  the 
largest  amount  to  be  used.     Many  persons  prefer  less  of  each. 

In  preparing  the  rice  for  this  dish  perhaps  no  better  method  can  be  given  than  that 
in  an  earlier  bulletin  of  this  series."^ 

"Wash  1  cupful  of  rice  in  several  waters,  rubbing  the  grains  between  the  hands  to 
remove  all  the  dirt.  Put  the  washed  rice  in  a  stewpan  with  2^  cupfuls  of  water  and 
1  teaspoonful  of  salt.  Cover  and  place  where  the  water  will  boil.  Cook  for  twenty 
minutes,  being  careful  not  to  let  it  bum.  At  the  end  of  this  time  put  the  stewpan 
on  a  tripod  or  ring  and  cover  the  rice  with  a  fold  of  cheese  cloth.  Let  it  continue  to 
cook  in  this  manner  an  hour,  then  turn  into  a  hot  vegetable  dish.  The  rice  will  be 
tender,  dry  and  sweet,  and  each  grain  will  separate.  During  the  whole  process  of 
cooking  the  rice  must  not  be  stirred .  If  a  tablespoonful  of  butter  is  cut  up  and  scattered 
over  the  rice  when  it  has  cooked  twenty  minutes  the  dish  will  be  very  much  improved. " 

The  butter  is  not  necessary  when  the  rice  is  served  with  India  curry  but  may  be 
included  in  dishes  where  less  fat  is  used. 

Curry  of  Veal. 


1  tablespoonful  flour. 

1  teaspoonful  curry  powder. 

Salt  and  pepper. 


2  tablespoonfuls  butter  or  drippings. 
1|  pounds  veal, 
i  onion,  chopped. 
J.  pint  milk. 

Fry  the  onions  in  the  butter  or  drippings,  remove,  and  fry  the  veal  until  it  is  brown. 
Transfer  the  meat  to  the  double  boiler,  cover  with  milk  and  cook  until  the  meat  is 
tender.  Add  the  cuiTy  powder  a  short  time  before  the  meat  is  done  and  thicken 
the  milk  with  flour  before  serving. 

SAUCES. 

The  art  of  preparing  savory  gravies  and  sauces  iajaaQ*e-ififtj^£i^jyi^ 
in  connection  with  the  serving  of  the  cheaper  meats  than  in  con- 
neSion'''wIllrT!Te^oliin^  inB?e""expensfve."^^ 

There  are  a  few  general  principles  underlying  the  making  of  all 
sauces  or  gravies  whether  the  liquid  used  is  water,  milk,  stock, 
tomato  juice,  or  some  combination  of  these.  For  ordinary  gravy 
2  level  tablespoonfuls  of  flour  or  1^  tablespoonfuls  of  cornstarch 
or  arrow  root  is  sufficient  to  thicken  a  cupful  of  liquid.  This  is  true 
excepting  when,  as  in  the  recipe  on  page  23  the  flour  is  browned. 
In  this  case  about  one-half  tablespoonful  more  should  be  allowed, 
for  browned  flour  does  not  thicken  so  well  as  unbrov/ned.  The  fat 
used  may  be  butter  or  the  drippings  from  the  meat,  the  allowance 
being  2  tablespoonfuls  to  a  cup  of  liquid. 

The  easiest  way  to  mix  the  ingredients  is  to  heat  the  fat,  add  the 
flour,  and  cook  until  the  mixture  ceases  to  bubble,  and  then  to  add 
the  liquid.  This  is  a  quick  method  and  by  using  it  there  is  little 
danger  of  getting  a  lumpy  gravy.  Many  persons,  however,  think 
it  is  not  a  wholesome  method  and  prefer  the  old-fashioiled  one  of 
thickening  the  gravy  by  means  of  flour  mixed  with  a  little  cold 
water.  The  latter  method  is  of  course  not  practicable  fo^  brown 
gravies. 

oU.  S.  Dept.  Agr.,  Fanners'  Bui.  256,  p.  S8. 
391 


40  ECONOMICAL  USE   0]?   MEAT  IN   THE   HOME. 

Considering  the  large  amount  of  discussion  about  the  digestibility 
of  fried  food  and  of  gravies  made  by  heating  flour  in  fat,  a  few  words 
on  the  subject  at  this  point  may  not  bs  out  of  order.  It  is  difficult 
to  see  how  heating  the  fat  before  adding  the  flour  can  be  unwhole- 
some, unless  the  cook  is  unskillful  enough  to  heat  the  fat  so  high 
that  it  begins  to  scorch.  Overheated  fat,  as  has  already  been 
pointed  out,  contains  an  acrid  irritating  substance  called  "acrolein," 
which  may  be  readily  considered  to  be  unwholesome.  It  is  without 
doubt  the  production  of  this  body  by  overheating  which  has  given 
fried  food  its  bad  name. 

Several  ways  of  varying  the  flavor  of  gravies  and  sauces  were 
suggested  in  the  preceding  section.  One  other  should  be  especially 
mentioned  here. 

Tlie  flavor  of  browned  flour. — The  good  flavor  of  browned  flour  is  often  overlooked. 
If  flour  is  cooked  in  fat  until  it  is  a  dark  brown  color  a  distinctive  and  very  agreeable 
flavor  is  obtained.  This  flavor  combines  very  well  with  that  of  currant  jelly,  and  a 
little  jelly  added  to  a  brown  gravy  is  a  great  improvement.  The  flavor  of  this  should 
not  be  combined  with  that  of  onions  or  other  highly  flavored  vegetables.  A  recipe 
for  a  dish  which  is  made  with  brown  sauce  follows. 

Mock  Venison. 

Cut  cold  mutton  into  thin  slices  and  heat  in  a  brown  sauce  made  according  to  the 
following  proportions: 


1  tablespoonful  red-currant  jelly. 
1  cupful  water  or  stock. 


2  tablespoonfuls  butter. 

2  tablespoonfuls  flour. 

1  tablespoonful   of  bottled  meat  sauce 

(which  ever  is  preferred). 

Brown  the  flour  in  the  butter,  add  the  water  or  stock  slowly,  and  keep  stirring. 
Then  add  the  jelly  and  meat  sauce  and  let  the  mixture  boil  up  well. 

SUMMAEY. 

Studies  of  the  food  habits  of  peoples  living  in  the  temperate  and 
warmer  regions  of  the  world,  where  animal  and  vegetable  foods  are 
both  found  in  abundance  and  where  there  is  opportunity  for  choice, 
show  that,  while  vegetable  foods — cereals,  succulent  vegetables,'  and 
fruits — compose  the  greater  part  of  the  bulk  of  the  diet,  animal 
foods— dairy  products,  eggs,  meat,  and  fish — almost  mvariably  enter 
into  the  bill  of  fare.  For  many  reasons  it  seems  fair  to  conclude, 
with  the  majority  of  the  physiologists,  that  this  widespread  habit 
is  the  result  of  experience  and  that  it  has  its  foundation  in  bodily 
needs.  From  the  earliest  times,  in  fact,  man  has  used  animal  foods, 
and  his  whole  body  structure  is  adapted  to  the  use  of  such  articles 

^diety^  Though  some,  for  various  reasons,  do  not  favor  the  eating 
of  flesn,  the  consensus  of  opinion  among  ph^^siologists  who  have 
given  special  attention  to  the  subject  is  that  flesh  foods  are  a  whole- 
some and  normal  part  of  the  diet. 


ECONOMICAL  USE   OF   MEAT   IN   THE   HOME.  41 

Of  course  it  is  possible  to  overeat  of  these  foods,  but  so  it  is  to 
overeat  of  such  foods  as  butter,  or  olive  oil,  for  example;  so  in  meat 
eating,  as  in  other  food  habits,  moderation  is  desirable.  This  is  par- 
ticularly the  case  for  those  who  live  sedentary  lives  involving  little 
muscular  work.  Such  people  naturally  select  and  seem  to  need  less 
meat  and  other  foods  than  those  who  lead  out-of-door  lives  and  do 
hard  manual  labor.  The  man  of  sedentarj'  life,  if  he  has  the  food 
habits  of  the  average  American  family,  would  ordinarily  take  a  moder- 
ate portion  of  meat  or  fish — a  chop  or  a  cutlet  or  a  slice  of  roast 
beef — once  a  day,  or  a  somewhat  larger  quantity  divided  between 
two  or  all  three  meals.  Such  a  quantity  would  weigh  from  3  to  5 
ounces,  an  amount  certainly  not  large.  The  heartier  man,  who 
leads  a  vigorous  life  in  the  open  air,  would  naturally  relish  more 
meat  just  as  he  would  want  more  bread,  butter,  and  other  foods 
than  the  man  with  little  active  work.  The  fact  that  some  persons 
eat  more  meat  than  the  circumstances  of  their  lives  demand  should 
not  be  taken  as  an  argument  against  meat  eating  in  general. 

According  to  statistics  compiled  in  the  Ofhce  of  Experiment  Sta- 
tions, meat  furnishes  about  16  per  cent  of  the  total  food  consumed  in 
the  ordinary  American  family,  about  30  per  cent  of  the  protein  de- 
sirable in  the  average  diet,  and  60  per  cent  of  the  energy-producing 
fats.  It  is  possible  to  obtain  all  of  the  necessary  protein  and  energy 
from  other  materials,  but  for  many  reasons  it  is  doubtful  if  such  a 
proceeding  would  be  either  desirable  or  agreeable  for  the  average 
person.  Exactly  how  much  meat  should  be  eaten  is  a  difficult  m_at- 
terto  determine;  probably  if  one  meat  dish  is  served  a  day,  and 
other  materials  supplying  protein,  such  as  milk,  eggs,  beans,  or  simi- 
lar foods,  are  also  used  there  is  little  danger  of  getting  too  much 
meat  or  too  little  protein.  It  is  of  course  possible  to  eat  meat  dishes 
less  frequently,  or  as  noted  above,  to  omit  meat  from  the  diet  alto- 
gether, if  one  so  desires  and  the  diet  is  so  arranged  that  it  remains 
well  balanced. 

Meat  is  in  general  one  of  the  most  digestible  of  food  materials. 
Recent  experiments  indicate  that  all  kindy  aiu  thuiuu^^hlj/  digested, 
less  expensive  cuts  as  well  as  the  more  costly.    The  higher  priced 
ones  contain  more  of  the  so-called  extractives  or  extractives  of  more  / 
pleasing_qiiahty7~aS.^nrt;4s'the  e^^^  which  not  oniy^fvi^  tile 

meaTi^  agreeable  flavor,  but_4lso__actuallj  stimulate  the  digestive 
processes.  They  have,  however,  little  if  any  jliitritive"  value,  aiid 
for  pcrgoHs  with  normal  digestion  the  less  expensive  cuts  even  if  less 
rich  in  extractives,  cooked  and  flavored  in  an  appetizing  way,  may 
certainly  be  used  to  replace  the  more  costly  cuts. 

Meat  is  undeniably  one  of  the  more  expensive  items  in  the  food  bill 
of  the  ordinary  family,  and  for  this  reason  it  is  important  that  it  be 

391 


42  JBCONOMICAL  USE   OF   MEAT  IK   THE   HOME. 

boiighj>^d  used- to  the  best  possible  adYaiitage.  In  rural  communi- 
tife^operative  slaughterhouses  and  storage  houses  are  often  useful 
not  only  in  reducing  the  cost  of  meat,  but  in  making  fresh  meat  avail- 
able in  summer.  If  the  size  of  her  family  or  her  storage  facilities 
warrant,  the  housekeeper  may  find  it  advantageous  to  buy  the  whole 
carcass  of  a  small  animal,  such  as  a  pig  or  a  lamb,  or  a  large  section  of 
beef,  thus  securing  better  prices.  Carefully  following  the  market 
and  taking  advantage  of  any  special  opportunity  that  may  offer  also 
helps  to  reduce  the  expense  for  meat  for  the  family  in  town. 

It  is  also  important  to  reduce  waste  by  using  as  much  as  possi- 
ble of  the  boneJat^.aLnd.Jbr^  usually  served  with  the 
meat  itself.  If  nothing  better  can  be  done  with  them,  the  bones  and 
trimmings  can  almost  always  be  profitably  used  in  the  soup  kettle 
and  the  fat  can  be  saved  for  cooking,  thus  saving  the  more  expensive 
butter  and  lard.  The  bits  of  meat  not  served  with  the  main  dish  or 
remaining  after  the  first  serving  can  be  seasoned  and  recooked  in 
many  palatable  ways,  or  can  be  combined  with  vegetables,  pie  crust, 
or  other  materials,  and  thus  the  meat  flavor  may  be  extended  over  a 
large  quantity  of  less  expensive  food  with  such  combinations.  ^More- 
over, smaller  quantities  of  meat  can  often  be  bought  than  would  be 
necessary  were  the  meat  served  alone. 

Different  Idnds  and  cuts  of  meat  vary  considerably  in  price.  Some- 
times the  cheaper  cuts  contain  a  larger  proportion  of  refuse  thaujthe 
more  expensive,  and  the  a"pparent  cost  is  less  than  the  actual  cost  of 
the  e^dible  portion.  Aside  from  this  the  advantage  of  the  more  ex- 
pensive cuts  lies  in  tenderness  and  flavor  rath^'^an  in  nutritive  I 
value.  Tenderness  depends  on  the  character  of  the  muscle  fibers 
and  connective  tissues  of  which  the  meat  is  composed.  Flavor  de- 
pends partly  on  the  fat  present  in  the  tissues,  but  mainly  on  nitrog- 
enous bodies  knov/n  as  extractives,  which  are  usually  more  abun- 
dant pr  of  more  agreeable  flavor  in  the  more  tender  parts  of  the  ani- 
malr/  The  heat  of  cooking  dissolves  the  connective  tissues  of  tough 
meat  and  in  a  measure  makes  it  more  tender,  but  heat  above  the  boil- 
ing point  or  even  a  little  lower  tends  to  change  the  texture  of  muscle  ^ 
fibers.  Hence  tough  meats  must  be  carefully  cooked  in  low  heat 
long  applied  in  order  to  soften  the  connective  tissue  without  unduly 
changing  the  fiber^  Cooking;  especially  in  water,  presents  a  further 
danger,  namely,  the  escape  into  the  water  of  the  nutritious  material 
in  the  meat.  In  cases  where  the  liquid  in  which  the  meat  is  cooked  is 
to  be  used,  as  in  soups  and  some  stews,  this  is  of  less  importance  or  it 
may  even  be  an  advantage,  but  where  the  meat  only  is  to  be  used  the 
fact  must  always  be  taken  into  consideration.  Not  only  is  the 
amount  of  nutritive  material  in  the  meat  lessened,  but  the  extractives 
are  lost  and  with  them  more  or  less  of  the  flavor  the  meat  originally 

391 


ECONOMICAL  USE   OF   MEAT   IN   THE   HOME.  43 

possessed.  To  lesse^  the  chances  of  loss,  cooks  fre^uentlj  searjiie 
exterior  of  the  meat  either  in  hot  fat  or  in  boiling  water  before  begin- 
ning the  long  cooking,  or  tough  meat  may  be  pounded  or  chopped 
to  break  down  the  tissues  to  a  certain  extend,  and  thus  permit 
shorter  cooking.  Besides  ^sing  such  devices  to  retain  and  develop 
the  "natural  flavor  of  the  mea^t,  oTEiF^iravors  may  be  added  to 
suppleniejrrthem ." ~  These  may  be  put  into  the  meat  before  cooldng  or 
ifiay^be^dded  later  in  the  form  of  relish  or  sauce. 

Vegetables  of  distinctive  flavor  such  as  onions,  carrots,  or  celeryi 
savory  herbs  such  as  p^arsley,_sxige,.jbayj[eaf,  or  thyme[  and  materials 
such  as  vinegar,  pickles,  o^ currant  jelly;  spices  sucTi  as  pepper,  cloves, 
or  ^^ curry''  mixTures;  and  sharp  or  highly  seasoned  meat  sauces  are 
all  types  of  flavoring  materials  which  are  useful  for  such  purposes  and 
which  may  be  used  in  a  great  variety  of  v/ays. 

In  fact  the  number  of  'Hasty"  dishes  which  a  good  cook  can  make 
out  of  the  cheaper  cuts  of  meat  or  meat  '4eft  over"  is  almost  endless. 
Undoubtedly  more  time  and  skill  are  required  in  their  preparation 
than  in  the  simple  cooking  of  the  miore  expensive  cuts,  just  as  more 
time  and  skill  are  required  for  careful,  intelligent  marketing  than  for 
haphazard  ordering;/ but  the  real  superiority  of  a  good  cook  lies  not 
so  much  in  the  preparation  of  expensive  or  fancy  dishes  as  in  the 
attractiye^preparation  of  inexpensive  dishes  for  every  day  and  in  the 
skillful  combinatTdn'"of^ jTay ors .    ^''"'" 

SomxC  housekeepers  seem  toliave  a  prejudice  against  economizing  in 
such  ways  as  those  here  suggested;  but,  if  the  comfort  of  the  family 
does  not  suffer  and  the  m-eals  are  kept  as  varied  and  appetizing  as 
wdien  they  cost  more,  little  ground  for  the  feeling  exists.  Surely  it  is 
not  beneath  the  dignity  of  any  family  to  avoid  useless  expenditure, 
no  matter  how  generous  its  incom^e,  and  the  intelligent  housekeeper 
should  take  as  much  pride  in  setting  a  good  table  at  a  low  price  as  the 
manufacturer  does  in  lessening  the  cost  of  production  in  his  factory. 

391 


FARMERS'  BULLETINS. 


Bulletins  in  this  list  will  be  sent  free,  so  long  as  the  supply  lasts,  to  any  resident 
)f  the  United  States,  on  application  to  his  Senator,  Representative,  or  Dele- 
gate in  Congress,  or  to  the  Secretary  of  Agriculture,  Washington,  D.  C.  Because 
of  the  limited  supply,  applicants  are  urged  to  select  only  a  few  numbers,  choosing 
those  which  are  of  special  interest  to  them.  Eesidents  of  foreign  countries  should 
apply  to  the  Superintendent  of  Documents,  Government  Printing  Office,  Washington, 
D.  C,  who  has  these  bulletins  for  sale.  Price  5  cents  each  to  Canada,  Cuba,  and 
Mexico;  6  cents  to  other  foreign  countries.  The  bulletins  entitled  "Experiment 
Station  Work"  give  briefly  the  results  of  experiments  performed  by  the  State  experi- 
ment stations. 

145.  Carbon  Bisulphid  as  an  Insecticide. 

149.  Experiment  Station  Work — XX. 

150.  Clea,ring  New  Land. 
152.  Scabies  of  Cattle. 

154.  The  Home  Fruit  Garden:  Preparation  and 
Care. 

155.  How  Insects  Affect  Health  in  Rural  Districts. 

156.  The  Home  Vineyard. 

157.  The  Propagation  of  Plants. 

158.  How  to  Build  Small  Irrigation  Ditches. 
162.  Experiment  Station  Work— XXI. 

164.  Rape  as  a  Forage  Crop. 

165.  Silkworm  Culture. 

166.  Cheese  Making  on  the  Farm. 

167.  Cassava. 

169.  Experiment  Station  Work— XXII. 

170.  Principles  of  Horse  Feeding. 

172.  Scale  Insects  and  Mites  on  Citrus  Trees. 

173.  Primer  of  Forestry.    Part  I:  The  Forest. 

174.  Broom  Corn. 

175.  Home  Manufacture  and  Use  of  Unfermented 
Grape  Juice. 

176.  Cra^nberry  Culture. 

177.  Squab  Raising. 

178.  Insects  Injurious  in  Cranberry  Culture. 

179.  Horseshoeing. 

181.  Pruning. 

182.  Poultry  as  Food. 

183.  Meat  on  the  Farm:  Butchering,  Curing,  and 
Keeping. 

185.  Beautifying  the  Home  Grounds. 

186.  Experiment  Station  Work— XXIII. 

187.  Drainage  of  Farm  Lands. 

188.  Weeds  Used  in  Medicine. 
190.  Experiment  Station  Work- XXIV. 

192.  Barnyard  Manure. 

193.  Experiment  Station  Work— XXV. 

194.  Alfalfa  Seed. 

195.  Annual  Flowering  Plants. 

196.  Usefulness  of  the  American  Toad. 

197.  Importation  of  Game  Birds  and  Eggs  for 
Propagation. 

198.  Strawberries. 

199.  Corn  Growing. 

200.  Turkeys. 

201.  Cream  Separator  on  Western  Farms. 

202.  Experiment  Station  Work— XXVI. 

203.  Canned  Fruits,  Preserves,  and  Jellies. 

204.  The  Cultivation  of  Mushrooms. 

205.  Pig  Management. 

206.  Milk  Fever  and  Its  Treatment. 

209.  Controlling  the  Boll  Weevil  in  Cotton  Seed 
and  at  Ginneries. 

210.  Experiment  Station  Work— XXVII. 

211.  The  Use  of  Paris  Green  in  Controlling  the 
Cotton  Boll  Weevil. 

213.  Raspberries. 

217.  Essential  Steps  in  Securing  an  Early  Crop  of 
Cotton. 

218.  The  School  Garden. 

219.  Lessons  from  the  Grain   Rust  Epidemic  of 
1904. 

220.  Tomatoes. 

221.  Fungous  Diseases  of  the  Cranberry. 

222.  Experiment  Station  Work— XXVIII. 

223.  Miscellaneous  Cotton  Insects  in  Texas. 

224.  Canadian  Field  Peas. 

225.  Experiment  Station  Work— XXIX. 

227.  Experiment  Station  Work— XXX. 

228.  Forest  Planting  and  Farm  Management. 

229.  The  Production  of  (iood  Heed  Corn. 

231.  Spraying  for  Cucumber  and  Melon  Diseases. 

232.  Okra:  Its  Culture  and  Uses. 
2.33.  Experiment  Station  Work— XXXI. 

234.  The  Guinea  Fowl. 

235.  Preparation  of  Cement  Concrete. 


42. 

44. 

47. 

48. 

49. 

51, 

52. 

54. 

56. 

56. 

60. 

61. 

62. 

63. 

64. 

65. 

69. 

71. 

73. 

77. 

78. 

79. 

81. 

82. 

83. 

84. 

85. 

86. 

87. 

88. 

91. 

92. 

93. 

96. 

97. 

99. 
100. 
101. 
103. 
104. 
105. 
106. 
107. 
110. 
113. 
114. 

lis. 

119. 
120. 
121. 
122. 
124. 
126. 
127. 
128. 
131. 

132. 
133. 
134. 
135. 
137. 
138. 
139. 
140. 
142. 

144. 


The  Feeding  of  Farm  Animals. 

Flax  for  Seed  and  Fiber. 

Weeds:  And  How  to  Kill  Them. 

Grape  Diseases  on  the  PacifiG  Coast. 

Silos  and  Silage. 

Meats:  Composition  and  Cooking. 

Potato  Culture. 

Cotton  Seed  and  Its  Products. 

Facts  About  Milk. 

Commercial  Fertilizers. 

Insects  Affecting  the  Cotton  Plant. 

The  Manuring  of  Cotton. 

Sheep  Feeding. 

Standard  Varieties  of  Chickens. 

The  Sugar  Beet. 

Some  Common  Birds. 

The  Dairy  Herd. 

Experiment  Station  Work— I. 

Methods  of  Curing  Tobacco. 

Asparagus  Culture. 

Marketing  Farm  Produce. 

Care  of  Milk  on  the  Farm. 

Ducks  and  Geese. 

Experiment  Station  Work — II. 

Experiment  Station  Work— III. 

Essentials  in  Beef  Production. 

Experiment  Station  Work— IV. 

The  Liming  of  Soils. 

Experiment  Station  Work — V. 

Experiment  Station  Work — VI. 

Corn  Culture  in  the  South. 

The  Culture  of  Tobacco. 

Tobacco  Soils. 

Experiment  Station  Work— VII. 

Fish  as  Food. 

Thirty  Poisonous  Plants. 

Experiment  Station  Work — VIII 

Alkali  Lands. 

Potato  Diseases  and  Treatment. 

Experiment  Station  Work- IX. 

Sugar  as  Food. 

Raising  Sheep  for  Mutton. 

Experiment  Station  Work— X. 

Insect  Enemies  of  Shade  Trees. 

Hog  Raising  in  the  South. 

Millets. 

Experiment  Station  Work- XI. 

Notes  on  Frost. 

Experiment  Station  Vv'ork— XII. 

Breeds  of  Dairy  Cattle. 

Experiment  Station  Work— XIII. 

Rice  Culture  in  the  United  States, 

The  Apple  and  How  to  Grow  It. 

Experiment  Station  Work— XIV. 

Grape  Growing  in  the  South. 

Experiment  Station  Work— XV. 

Insects  Affecting  Tobacco. 

Beans,  Peas,  and  Other  Legumes  as  Food. 

Experiment  Station  Work— XVI. 

Exf)eriment  Station  Work — XVII. 

Practical  Suggestions  for  Farm  Buildings. 

Important  Insecticides. 

Eggs  and  Their  Uses  o,s  Food. 

Household  Tests  for  Detection  of  Oleomar- 
garine and  Renovated  Butter. 

Insect  Enemies  of  Growing  Wheat. 

Experiment  Station  Work— XVIII. 

Tree  Planting  on  Rural  .School  Grounds. 

Sorghum  Sirup  Manufacture. 

The  Angora  Goat. 

Irrigation  in  Field  and  Garden. 

Emmer:  A  Grain  for  the  Semiarid  Regions. 

Pineapple  Growing. 

Principles  of  Nutrition  and  Nutritive  Value 
of  Food. 

Experiment  Station  Work— XIX. 


(I) 


II 


236.  Incubation  and  Tncnbators, 

a37.  Experiment  Station  Work— XXXII. 

238.  Citrus  Fruit  Growing  in  tlic  Gulf  States. 

239.  The  Corrosion  of  Fence  Wire. 
211.  Butter  Making  on  the  Farm. 
242.  An  Example  of  Model  Farming. 

213.  Fangicides  and  Their  Use  in  Preventing  Dis- 
eases of  Fruits. 
211.  Experiment  Station  Work— XXXIII. 
215.  Kenovation  of  Worn-out  Soils. 
246.  Saccharine  Sorghums  for  Forage. 
218.  The  Lawn. 

249.  Cereal  Breakfast  Foods. 

250.  The  Prevention  of  Stinking  Smut  of  Wheat 

and  Loose  Smut  of  Oats. 

251.  Experiment  Station  Work— XXXIV. 

252.  Maple  Sugar  and  Simp. 

253.  The  Germination  of  Seed  Corn. 

254.  Cucumbers. 

255.  The  Home  Vegetable  Garden. 

256.  Preparation  of  Vegetables  for  the  Table. 

257.  Soil  Fertility. 

258.  Texas  or  Tick  Fever  and  Its  Prevention. 

259.  Experiment  Station  Work— XXXV. 

260.  Seed  of  Red  Clover  and  Its  Impurities. 

262.  Experiment  Station  V^'ork— XXXVI. 

263.  Practical  Information  for  Beginners  in  Irri- 

gation. 

264.  The  Brown-tail  Moth  and  Hov/to  Control  It. 

266.  Management  of  Soils  to  Conserve  Moisture. 

267.  Experiment  Station  W^ork— XXXVII. 

265.  Industrial  Alcohol:  Sources  and  Manufac- 

ture. 

269.  Industrial  Alcohol:  Uses  and  Statistics. 

270.  Modern  Conveniences  for  the  Farm  Home. 

271.  Forage  Crop  Practices  in  Western  Oregon 

and  Western  Washington. 

272.  A  Successful  Hog  and  Seed-corn  Farm. 

273.  Experiment  Station  Work— XXXVIII. 

274.  Flax  Culture. 

275.  The  Gipsy  Moth  and  How  to  Control  It. 

276.  Experiment  Station  Work— XXXIX. 

277.  The  Use  of  Alcohol  and  Gasoline  in  Farm 

Engines. 

278.  Leguminous  Crops  for  Green  Manuring. 

279.  A  Method  of  Eradicating  Johnson  Grass. 
2S0.  A  Profitable  Tenant  Dairy  Farm. 

281.  Experiment  Station  Work— XL. 

282.  Celery. 

283.  Spraying  for  Apple  Diseases  and  the  Codling 

Moth  in  the  Ozarks. 

284.  Insect  and  Fungous  Enemies  of  the  Grape 

East  of  the  Kocky  Mountains. 

285.  The  Advantage  of  Planting  Heavy  Cotton 

Seed. 

286.  Comparative  Value   of  Whole  Cotton  Seed 

and  Cotton-seed  Meal  in  Fertilizing  Cotton. 

287.  Poultry  Management. 

288.  Nonsaccharine  Sorghums. 

289.  Beans. 

290.  The  Cotton  BoUworm. 

291.  Evaporation  of  Apples. 

292.  Cost  of  Filling  Silos. 

293.  Use  of  Fruit  as  Food. 

294.  Farm  Practice  in  the  Columbia  Basin  Uplands. 

295.  Potatoes  and  Other  Root  Crops  as  Food. 

296.  Experiment  Station  Work— XLI. 

298.  Food  Value  of  Corn  and  Corn  Products. 

299.  Diversified  Farming  Under  the  Plantation 

System. 

300.  Some  Important  Grasses  and  Forage  Plants 

for  the  Gulf  Coast  Region. 

301.  Home-grown  Tea. 

302.  Sea   Island   Cotton:   Its  Culture,  Improve- 

ment, and  Diseases, 

303.  Corn  Harvesting  Machinery. 

304.  Growing  and  Curing  Hops. 

305.  Experiment  Station  Work— XLII. 

306.  Dodder  in  Relation  to  Farm  Seeds. 

307.  Roseile:  Its  Culture  and  Uses. 

309.  Experiment  Station  Work— XLIII. 

310.  A  Successful  Alabama  Diversification  Farm. 

311.  Sand-clay  and  Burnt-clay  Roads. 

312.  A  Successful  Southern  Hay  Farm. 

313.  Harvesting  and  Storing  Corn. 

314.  A  Method  of  Breeding  Early  Cotton  to  Es- 

cape Boll-weevil  Damage. 

315.  Progress  in  Legume  Inoculation. 


316.  Experiment  Station  Work— XLIV. 

317.  Experiment  Station  Work— XLV. 

318.  Cowpeas. 

319.  Demonstration  Work  in   Cooperation  with 

Southern  Farmers. 

320.  Experiment  Station  V/ork— XLVI. 

321.  The  Use  of  the  Split-log  Drag  on  Earth  Roads. 

322.  Milo  as  a  Dry-land  Grain  Crop. 

323.  Clover  Farming   on   the   Sandy  Jack-pine 

Lands  of  the  North. 

324.  Sweet  Potatoes. 

325.  Small  Farms  in  the  Corn  Belt. 

326.  Building  Up  a  Run-down  Cotton  Plantation. 

328.  Silver  Fox  Farming. 

329.  Experiment  Station  Work— XLVII. 

330.  Deer  Farming  in  the  United  States. 

331.  Forage  Crops  for  Hogs  in  Kansas  and  Okla- 

homa. 

332.  Nuts  and  Their  Uses  as  Food. 

333.  Cotton  Wilt. 

334.  Experiment  Station  Work— XLVIII. 

335.  Harmful  and   Beneficial  Mammals  of   the 

Arid  Interior. 

337.  Cropping  Systems  for  New  England  Dairy 

Farms. 

338.  Macadam  Roads. 

339.  Alfalfa. 

341.  The  Basket  Willow. 

342.  Experiment  Station  W'ork- XLIX. 

343.  The  Cultivation  of   Tobacco  in   Kentucky 

and  Tennessee. 

344.  The  Boll  Weevil  Problem,  with  Special  Refer- 

ence to  Means  of  Reducing  Damage. 

345.  Some  Common  Disinfectants. 

346.  The  Computation  of  Rations  for  Farm  Ani- 

mals by  the  Use  of  Energy  Values. 

347.  The  Repair  of  Farm  Equipment. 

348.  Bacteria  in  Milk. 

349.  The  Dairy  Industry  in  the  South. 

350.  The  Dehorning  of  Cattle. 

351.  The  Tuberculin  Test  of  Cattle  forTuberculosis. 

352.  The  Nevada  Mouse  Plague  of  1907-8. 

353.  Experiment  Station  Work— L. 

354.  Onion  Culture. 

355.  A  Successful  Poultry  and  Dairy  Farm. 

356.  Peanuts. 

357.  Methods  of  Poultry  Management  at  the  Maine 

Agricultural  Experiment  Station. 

358.  A  Primer  of  Forestry.    Part  II:  Practical  For- 

estry. 

359.  Canning  Vegetables  in  the  Home. 

360.  Experiment  Station  Work— LI. 

361.  Meadow  Fescue:  Its  Culture  and  Uses. 

362.  Conditions  Affectingthe  Value  of  MarketHay. 

363.  The  Use  of  Milk  as  Food. 

364.  A  Profitable  Cotton  Farm. 

365.  Farm   Management   in    Northern    Potato- 

growing  Sections. 

366.  Experiment  Station  Work— LII. 

367.  Lightning  and  Lightning  Conductors. 

368.  The  Eradication  of  Bindweed,  or  Wild  Morn- 

ing-glory 

369.  How  to  Destroy  Rats. 

370.  Replanning  a  Farm  for  Profit. 

371.  Drainage  of  Irrigated  Lands. 

372.  Soy  Beans. 

373.  Irrigation  of  Alfalfa. 

374.  Experiment  Station  Work— LIII. 

375.  Care  of  Food  in  the  Home. 

376.  Game  Laws  for  1909. 

377.  Harmfulness  of  Headache  Mixtures. 

378.  Methods  of  Exterminating  the  Texas-fever 

Tick. 

379.  Hog  Cholera. 

380.  The  Loco-weed  Disease. 

381.  Experiment  Station  Work— LIV. 

382.  The  Adulteration  of  Fcrage-plant  Seeds. 
333.  How  to  Destroy  English  Sparrows. 

384.  Experiment  Station  Work— LV. 

385.  Bovs'  and  Girls'  Agricultural  Clubs. 

386.  Potato  Culture  on  Irrigated  Farmsof  the  West. 

387.  ThePreservativeTreatmentof  Farm  Timbers. 

388.  Experiment  Station  Work— L VI. 

389.  Bread  and  Bread  Making. 

390.  Pheasant  Raising  in  the  United  States. 

391.  Economical  Use  of  Meat  in  the  Home. 

392.  Irrigation  of  Sugar  Beets. 

393.  Habit-forming  Agents. 


O 


II 


/ 


p3, 


t^^^ 


mv^ 


jf-O^ 


■\  ^,  ^J 


nm 


^'  -.r^ 


T.^ 


K^:i'^' 


^m'm 


'^rw-: 


«»■--« 


:§_     Jft." 


»,4'?*,^ 


