/effects  of  freezing  and  thawing 
ON  sensory  quality  and  thiamin  content 
OF  spaghetti  and  meat  sauce 

AFTER  REHEATING  IN  CONVENTIONAL  OR  MICROWAVE  OVEN/ 


by 

CINDY  LOU  BLOMQUIST 
B.S.,  Kansas  State  University,  Manhattan,  1977 


A  MASTER'S  THESIS 

submitted  in  partial  fulfillment  of  the 
requirements  for  the  degree 

MASTER  OF  SCIENCE 
Department  of  Foods  and  Nutrition 


KANSAS  STATE  UNIVERSITY 
Manhattan,  Kansas 


1985 


Approved  by: 


U> 


Major  Professor 


I   [)  A115D2   iMeeoi 

.74 

W%^  TABLE  OF  CONTENTS 

855 

C-  <£  Page 

INTRODUCTION  1 

REVIEW  OF  LITERATURE 3 

Food  Preservation 3 

History  of  freezing  5 

Effects  of  freezing  7 

Physical  changes 8 

Chemical  changes 11 

Stability  of  frozen  foods  11 

Fruits 11 

Vegetables 13 

Eggs  and  egg  products 17 

Meat,  fish,  and  poultry 19 

Baked  products  and  other  starch  products  22 

Effects  of  thawing  on  frozen  foods 28 

Temperature  fluctuation  ....  31 

Reheating  frozen  foods  34 

Foodservice  industry  41 

Pasta  Products 42 

Instrumental  and  sensory  texture  measurements 

of  pasta  products 45 

MATERIALS  AND  METHODS  48 

Sample  Preparation  48 

Instrumental  evaluation  of  spaghetti  with 

meat  sauce 50 


n 


iii 


Texture en 

Co,or 50 

Analysis  of  data 50 

Sensory  Evaluation  of  spaghetti  with  meat  sauce  ...   51 

Panel  selection ' 51 

Panel  training 51 

Scorecard 52 

Panel  evaluation  sessions  52 

Nutrient  measurements  of  spaghetti  and  meat 

sauce 53 

RESULTS  AND  DISCUSSION  54 

Effects  of  treatments  of  appearance  factors  54 

Strand  separation  54 

Fat  separation 57 

HunterLab  color  57 

Effects  of  treatments  on  mouthfeel  and  texture  ...  60 

Mouthfeel  -  dryness 60 

Greasiness 60 

Firmness  -  sensory  evaluation  61 

Firmness  -  Instron  measurements 62 

Flavor 54 

Effects  of  reheating  method  with  freeze-thaw 

treatments  on  spaghetti  and  meat  sauce 65 

Moistness 65 

Nutrient  analysis 65 

SUMMARY 

by 


iv 


REFERENCES 71 

ACKNOWLEDGEMENTS  77 

APPENDIX 78 


LIST  OF  TABLES  AND  FIGURES 

Table  1.  Frozen  foods  sales  7 

Table  2.  Nutrient  concentration  in  macaroni  .  .  . 42 

Table  3.  Freezing  and  thawing  schedule 49 

Table  4.  Mean  squares  and  F-values  from  analysis  of  variance 

of  sensory  properties  for  spaghetti  and  meat  sauce  .  .   55 

Table  5.  Mean  squares  and  F-values  from  analysis  of  variance 
for  chemical  and  instrumental  tests  on  spaghetti 
and  meat  sauce 56 

Tab'e  6.  Least  square  means  for  appearance  factors  for 

varying  freeze-thaw  cycles  58 

Table  7.  Least  square  means  for  significantly  different 

appearance  factors  for  spaghetti  and  meat  sauce.  ...   59 

Table  8.  Least  square  means  for  mouthfeel  and  texture  evaluation 

of  spaghetti  for  effect  of  freeze-thaw  cycles.  .  .      61 

Table  9.  Least  square  means  for  sensory  flavor  evaluations 

for  effect  of  freeze-thaw  cycles  63 

Table  10.  Least  square  for  reheating  by  conventional  and  micro- 
wave ovens  and  freeze-thaw  treatments  on  moistness 
and  thiamin  content  of  spaghetti  and  meat  sauce.  ...   67 

Table  11.  Least  square  means  for  chemical  measurements  for 

spaghetti  and  meat  sauce 68 

Table  A-l.  Spaghetti  and  meat  sauce  formula 78 

Figure  A-l.  Scorecard  for  evaluating  spaghetti  and  meat  sauce  .   79 

Figure  A-2.  Effect  of  freeze-thaw  cycles  on  fat  and  strand 

separation 82 

Figure  A-3.  Effect  of  freeze-thaw  cycles  on  L,  a,  b  instrumental 

color  values 84 

Figure  A-4.  Effect  of  freeze-thaw  cycles  on  instrumental  CIE 

L,  a,  b  values 86 


vi 


Figure  A-5.  Effect  of  reheating  method  on  instrumental  color 

values gg 

Figure  A-6.  Effects  of  freeze-thaw  cycles  on  moistness, 

greasiness  and  firmness  gg 

Figure  A-7.  Sensory  vs.  instrumetnal  firmness  values 92 

Figure  A-8.  Effect  of  freeze-thaw  cycles  on  spice  intensity 

and  off-flavor g4 

Figure  A-9.  Effect  of  reheating  method  on  moistness  96 

Figure  A-10.  Effect  of  freeze-thaw  cycles  on  thiamin  retention  .   98 

Table  A-2.  Least  square  means  comparing  reheating  method  and 
freeze-thaw  cycles  for  sensory  attributes  of 
spaghetti  and  meat  sauce gg 

Table  A-3.  Least  square  means  comparing  reheating  method  and 
freeze-thaw  cycles  on  color  of  spaghetti  and  meat 


sauce 


100 


Table  A-4.  Bacterial  counts  in  spaghetti 101 


Introduction 

Food  preservation  has  become  important  for  increasing  the  food 
supply  throughout  the  world.  The  type  of  preservation  method  used 
depends  upon  many  factors  including  type  of  food,  facilities  and  labor 
availability  and  end  use  of  product.  Nutrient  retention  and  product 
acceptability  varies  among  different  food  preservation  methods. 
Freezing  is  used  more  frequently  in  home  and  institutional  settings 
than  canning  or  drying  and  freeze-drying.  Freezing  maintains  high 
nutritional  value  and  product  acceptability. 

Freezing  pre-cooked  foods  is  increasing  in  the  food  service 
industry  and  among  convenience  food  manufacturers.  As  the  number  of 
women  working  outside  the  home,  single  parent  households,  and  single 
family  units  increase,  more  precooked  food  is  frozen.  This  demands 
less  time  for  meal  preparation  and  decreases  product  waste  because 
excess  food  can  be  frozen  and  used  when  needed. 

Although  freezing  has  advantages  over  other  food  preservation 
methods  it  is  not  problem-free.  All  steps  in  the  freezing  process  must 
be  done  using  sanitary  practices.  This  is  especially  important  because 
freezing  only  retards  growth  of  microorganisms  and  if  food  is  handled 
improperly  it  may  not  be  safe  to  eat. 

"Freezing  abuse"  often  occurs  to  products  in  the  marketplace. 
Partial  thawing  and  refreezing  may  occur  several  times  before  products 
reach  final  destinations.  This  may  be  the  result  of  improper  handling 
or  insufficient  temperature  control  during  the  transportation  phase. 


It  is  almost  impossible  to  maintain  correct  temperatures  in  freezer 
display  cases  in  the  supermarket.  Partial  or  total  thawing  of  products 
also  may  occur  after  purchase  and  before  transfer  to  the  home  freezer. 
Therefore,  it  is  important  to  study  the  effects  of  freezing  and  thawing 
on  nutrient  retention  and  product  acceptability. 

Modern  technology  has  increased  the  number  of  ways  a  product  can 
be  heated  or  reheated.  Retortable  pouches  allow  cooking  in  boiling 
water  with  small  nutrient  losses  and  high  eating  quality.  Microwave 
ovens  are  becoming  popular  in  both  private  and  public  sectors. 
Microwave  ovens  are  considered  energy  efficient,  and  often  require  less 
time  for  reheating  foods  than  conventional  ovens  (Dahl  et  si.,  1981,  and 
Snyder,  1978).  Also,  few  dishes  and  easy  oven  cleaning  increases 
microwave  oven  usage. 

Extensive  research  findings  have  been  published  on  various  food 
preservation  methods.  Effects  of  heating  and  reheating  comparing 
microwave  oven  with  conventional  methods  are  also  popular  topics. 
However,  little  information  is  available  in  the  literature  concerning  the 
effects  of  freezing  and  thawing  on  various  food  products. 

The  objective  of  this  investigation  was  to  evaluate  spaghetti 
with  meat  sauce  after  subjecting  the  product  to  several  freeze-thaw 
cycles  and  reheating  by  a  conventional  or  microwave  oven. 


REVIEW  OF  LITERATURE 
Food  Preservation 

Deterioration  of  food  results  from  chemical  and  enzymatic  reac- 
tions within  the  food  system  as  well  as  from  microbial  contaminants 
(Ley,  1980).  The  aim  of  food  preservation  (Fennema,  1975)  is  "to  pre- 
vent undesirable  changes  in  the  wholesomeness,  nutritive  value  or  sen- 
sory quality  of  food  by  economical  methods  which  control  growth  of 
microorganisms;  reduce  chemical,  physical  and  physiological  changes  of 
an  undesirable  nature;  and  obviate  contamination." 

Food  can  be  preserved  through  chemical  means  by  adding  sub- 
stances such  as  sugar,  salt  or  acids  to  foods.  Alcoholic  or  acidic 
fermentations  preserve  foods  using  biological  means.  Physical  methods 
are  most  common  and  include  heating  (canning),  irradiation,  chilling  or 
freezing,  drying  or  freeze-drying. 

Canning  usually  results  in  severe  overcooking,  because  of  the 
high  temperatures  and  duration  of  heating  required  for  sterilization. 
A  loss  of  flavor  results,  as  well  as  deterioration  in  texture  and 
general  appearance  (Rogers  and  Binsted,  1972).  Hellendoorn  et  al . 
(1971)  reported  on  the  nutritive  value  of  canned  meals  consisting  of 
meat,  vegetables,  legumes  and  potatoes.  Considerable  losses  occurred 
in  vitamin  A,  thiamin,  niacin  and  pantothenic  acid  during  sterilization 
and  storage.  Vitamin  E,  riboflavin,  pyridoxine,  vitamin  Bi?,  folic 
acid,  choline  chloride  and  inositol  were  relatively  stable.  Protein 
quality  also  decreased  during  storage. 


Freezing  usually  is  considered  superior  to  canning  for  long- 
term  food  preservation  because  proper  freezing  is  effective  for 
retaining  the  flavor,  color  and  nutritive  value  of  food  while  only 
moderately  altering  textural  characteristics  (Fennema;  1975;  1977). 

The  freezing  process  has  little  effect  on  the  nutritive  value 
of  foods.  If  storage  temperatures  are  maintained  at  0°F  or  below,  the 
nutrients  will  only  deteriorate  slightly  (Ley,  1980).  According  to 
Ley  (1980),  freezing  generally  affects  nutrients  in  the  following  ways: 

(1)  Proteins  usually  are  not  affected  by  frozen  storage,  except 
during  prolonged  storage;  proteins  in  fish  and  shellfish  may 
become  less  digestible. 

(2)  Fats  become  rancid  due  to  oxidation,  and  fat-soluble  vita- 
mins (A,D,E,  and  K)  will  oxidize  during  storage  if  not 
packaged  or  frozen  properly. 

(3)  Carbohydrates  generally  are  not  affected  by  frozen  storage. 
The  exceptions  will  be  discussed  later. 

(4)  Although  minerals  are  not  destroyed  by  freezing,  they  may 
be  lost  during  blanching  or  thawing. 

(5)  Water-soluble  vitamins  are  the  most  sensitive  to  food 
processing;  thiamin  and  ascorbic  acid  are  frequently 
studied  to  determine  nutrient  retention  in  foods. 

The  rate  at  which  molecules  move  determines  the  rate  at  which  they 
interact  with  others  or  initiate  chemical  reactions.  Generally,  reac- 
tion rates  double  with  an  18°F  rise  in  temperature  (Ley,  1980). 
Detrimental  effects  that  occur  during  freezing  and  severity  of  those 
effects  depends  on  the  product  and  on  the  nature  of  the  freezing 
process  (Fennema,  1975).  Livingston  et  al .  (1973)  cited  previous  stu- 
dies concerning  the  effects  of  storage,  time,  temperature  and  container 
size.  Ascorbic  acid  in  fruits  and  thiamin  and  riboflavin  in  low-acid 
vegetables  were  found  to  be  especially  sensitive  to  extended  storage  at 


high  temperatures.  They  concluded  that  nutrient  retention  was  higher 
in  frozen  as  opposed  to  canned  foods.  However,  prolonged  storage 
reduces  vitamin  content,  especially  thiamin,  regardless  of  preservation 
method  used. 

Methods  of  preservation  result  in  some  undesirable  effects  on 
the  sensory  attributes  and  nutritional  content  of  foods  (Fennema, 
1975).  For  example,  thermal  sterilization  softens  food  tissues,  de- 
grades chlorophylls  and  anthocyanins,  alters  flavor  and  results  in  loss 
or  degradation  of  substantial  amounts  of  some  nutrients.  The  advan- 
tages almost  always  outweigh  the  disadvantages  of  food  preservation, 
however,  research  must  be  continued  to  decrease  the  disadvantages 
while  maintaining  the  advantages. 

Lund  (1979)  summarized  effects  of  moisture  removal  from  studies 
by  others  on  vitamins  A  and  C.  Since  both  vitamins  are  heat  labile  and 
sensitive  to  oxidation,  the  dehydration  process  resulted  in  nutrient 
losses  similar  to  losses  from  freezing  rather  than  canning. 

History  of  freezing.  The  frozen  food  industry  was  initiated  in 
1865  using  a  "weather  freezing"  system  for  fish  (Ley,  1980).  However, 
it  was  not  until  the  early  1920's  that  the  first  successfully  prepared 
product  (chicken  a'la  king)  was  marketed  by  Birdseye  Frosted  Foods 
(Tressler  et  al.,  1968).  The  product  was  successful  because  it  (a) 
retained  characteristics  extremely  well  after  frozen  storage,  (b)  had  a 
long  shelf  life,  (c)  could  be  produced  to  sell  at  a  reasonable  price, 
and  (d)  required  no  special  effort  by  consumers  to  prepare  the  product 
at  home. 


The  frozen  food  industry  prospered  until  1944  (Tressler  et  al., 
1968).  A  drastic  decline  in  frozen  food  purchases  resulted  from  the 
industries'  ignorance  of  proper  freezing  methods,  improper  selection  of 
raw  materials,  handling  and  distribution  problems,  and  consumer 
ignorance.  Initially,  a  bad  experience  with  one  package  of  frozen  food 
was  likely  to  prejudice  the  consumer  against  all  frozen  foods.  After 
consumer  confidence  returned,  the  industry  experienced  exponential 
growth  resulting  in  inferior  products,  because  many  companies  entered 
the  industry  without  proper  knowledge  or  product  experimentation 
(Tressler  et  al.,  1968).  Therefore,  in  1947,  the  industry  experienced 
a  87.5  per  cent  decrease  in  frozen  food  sales. 

In  1948  the  Western  Utilization  Research  Branch  began  investi- 
gations on  how  frozen  food  products  behave  under  conditions  of  time  and 
temperature  such  as  they  may  encounter  in  the  commercial  distribution 
system  (Van  Arsdel ,  1957).  Researchers  found  "freezing  abuse" 
(temperature  fluctuation)  resulted  in  inferior  quality  and  decreased 
acceptabilty  of  frozen  foods.  Also,  the  damage  which  occurred  was 
progressive  and  irreparable. 

Seafood  has  been  an  important  component  of  the  frozen  food 
industry  almost  since  its  conception.   In  1949,  Rudy  Wagner,  owner  of 
Redi  Foods,  "invented"  fish  sticks  to  satisfy  the  demand  in  Albany,  New 
York  for  frozen  fish  strips  that  could  be  fried  in  roadside  stands  for 
sandwiches  (Tressler  et  al . ,  1968).  Since  shrimp  was  available 
regionally,  it  became  a  popular  frozen  food  item  and  sales  increased 
from  17  million  pounds  in  1952  to  105  million  pounds  in  1966. 


Birdseys,  realizing  its  potential,  added  precooked  frozen  foods 
to  the  product  line  in  1952  (Tressler  et  al.,  1968).  Since  1953  frozen 
dinner  sales  have  increased  annually  without  ever  experiencing  a 
decline.  The  success  of  precooked  frozen  foods  has  been  attributed  to 
the  fact  that  these  products  save  time,  and  make  foods  available  to  the 
consumer  which  ordinarily  require  a  great  deal  of  skill  to  prepare 
(Rogers  and  Binsted,  1972).  However,  food  which  has  been  precooked  is 
subject  to  increased  chemical  changes  and  deterioration  during  frozen 
storage  than  when  the  product  is  frozen  uncooked.  Also,  the  delicate 
flavors  and  aromas  developed  during  cooking  are  easily  lost  during  fro- 
zen storage,  because  of  the  chemical  reactions  such  as  oxidation  and 
evaporation. 

The  success  of  the  frozen  food  industry  is  evident  from  the 
data  in  Table  1  (Anonymous,  1979). 

Table  1.  Frozen  foods  sales. 

Fruit     Prepared  Foods     Dinners     Total 
(Millions  of  dollars) 


1948 

292 

1958 

88 

2,320 

1968 

261 

1,927 

471 

6,690 

1978 

461 

5,511 

657 

20,442 

Effects  of  Freezing 

Although  food  preservation  methods  can  stop  growth  of  micro- 


organisms  and  retard  the  rate  of  chemical  reactions,  some  chemical  and 
physical  changes  do  occur  in  preserved  foods.  These  changes  must  be 
considered  if  foods  are  to  be  frozen  successfully. 

Physical  changes.  Supercooling,  the  first  step  in  the  freezing 
process,  is  when  the  temperature  of  water  is  lowered  below  its  freezing 
point  before  crystallization  occurs.  Studies  indicate  that  temporary 
supercooling  generally  does  not  impair  the  quality  of  foods  (Fennema, 
1975).  Therefore,  the  undesirable  side  effects  of  freezing  are  attri- 
buted to  the  second  step  in  the  freezing  process,  crystallization  of 
water. 

Nucleation,  the  first  phase  in  water  to  ice  transformation,  is 
the  association  of  molecules  into  an  ordered  particle  of  a  size 
sufficient  to  survive  and  serve  as  a  site  for  crystal  growth  (Fennema, 
1975).  The  location  of  ice  crystals  is  a  function  of  freezing  rate, 
temperature  and  nature  of  the  cells  (Fennema  et  al . ,  1973).  Water 
crystallization  resulting  in  separation  of  oil  and  aqueous  phsae  and 
breaking  of  the  emulsion  occur  in  frozen  foods. 

The  second  step  in  the  crystallization  process  is  the  growth  of 
the  ice  crystals.  Unlike  nucleation,  crystalline  growth  can  occur  just 
below  the  melting  point  (Fennema,  1975).  Water  molecules  must  move 
from  the  liquid  phase  to  the  crystal  surface  while  the  solute  must  dif- 
fuse away  from  the  crystal. 

Slow  freezing  (cooling  at  a  rate  of  less  than  1°C  min) 
generally  allows  only  a  few  nuclei  to  form  in  extracellular  areas, 
resulting  in  large  ice  crystals,  maximum  dislocation  of  water,  a 


shrunken  appearance  of  cells  and  usually  lower  food  quality  (Fennema  et 
al.,  1973;  Fennema,  1975).  As  ice  forms  in  extracellular  regions,  the 
solute  concentration  of  the  unfrozen  phase  gradually  increases  and 
vapor  pressure  decreases.  At  relatively  high  subfre.ezing  tem- 
peratures, ice  crystals  cannot  penetrate  cellular  membranes,  therefore, 
intracellular  fluid  remains  supercooled  and  vapor  pressure  exceeds 
extracelluar  fluid.  This  vapor  pressure  difference  causes  water  to 
diffuse  from  the  cell  and  deposit  on  extracellular  ice  crystals 
resulting  in  cellular  dehydration  (Fennema  et  al.,  1973).  Continued 
freezing  increases  shrinkage  and  ice  crystal  size. 

A  uniform  distribution  of  ice  crystals  results  in  products  fro- 
zen rapidly  to  a  low  temperature  (Fennema,  1975).  Rapid  freezing 
favors  intracellular  ice  crystal  formation  which  minimizes  cellular 
dehydration. 

Fennema  and  colleagues  (1973)  cited  studies  by  Mazur  (1966) 
that  suggested  cell  membranes  were  effective  barriers  to  crystal  growth 
during  slow  freezing,  but  the  barrier  suddenly  disappears  at  about 
-10°C  during  rapid  cooling.  Possible  reasons  for  the  decline  in 
barrier  effectiveness  as  temperature  decreases  are:  (1)  low  tem- 
peratures damage  the  membrane  either  directly  or  indirectly  which  may 
be  related  to  solute  concentration,  or,  as  Mazur  believes  (2)  membranes 
are  not  damaged,  but  at  a  certain  temperature  (approximately  -15°C)  ice 
crystals  develop  which  can  penetrate  the  minute  water-filled  pores  of 
the  membrane. 

Volume  change  is  another  physical  change  which  is  associated 


10 


with  ice  formation.  Pure  water  at  0°C  expands  approximately  9%  when 
water  is  transformed  to  ice  (Fennema,  1975).  The  extent  of  volume 
changes  in  a  food  system  depends  upon  the  following  factors: 

(1)  Composition.  The  percentage  of  water  and  presence 
of  solutes  or  suspended  matter  influence  volume  changes. 
Since  water  is  responsible  for  the  expansion  during 
freezing,  any  decrease  in  water  per  unit  volume  decreases 
the  expansion. 

(2)  Percentage  of  free  water.  Any  water  that  is  bound  or 
supercooled  does  not  contribute  to  expansion  during  freez- 
ing. 

(3)  Temperature  range. 

The  following  events  can  contribute  to  volume  changes:  cooling 
prior  to  freezing  (contraction),  ice  formation  (expansion),  cooling  of 
ice  crystals  (contraction),  solute  crystallization  (contraction), 
cooling  of  solute  crystals  (contraction),  and  crystallization  and 
cooling  of  nonsolutes  such  as  fat  (contraction). 

Physical  changes  that  occur  during  frozen  storage  include  for- 
mation of  eutectics,  freezer  burn  and  recrystal lization  (Fennema  et 
al.,  1973).  The  percentage  of  frozen  water  to  free  water  increases  as 
temperature  decreases,  for  example,  the  percentage  of  ice  in  lean  meat 
is  approximately  74%  at  23°F,  83%  at  14°F  and  89%  at  -22°F.  When  lean 
meat  is  reduced  to  a  temperature  range  of  -58°  to  -76°F,  the  eutectic 
point  (where  further  temperature  decrease  will  not  cause  additional 
water  solidification)  is  reached  (Ley,  1980).  The  eutectic  point  for 
most  foods  occurs  near  -67°F.  At  temperatures  below  the  eutectic  point 
approximately  8%  of  the  water  is  unfrozen,  but  it  is  bound  to  proteins. 

Freezer  burn  is  initiated  by  sublimation  of  ice  and  results  in 


11 


inferior  food  quality.  Since  ice  crystals  are  not  stable,  changes  can 
occur  in  number,  size,  shape,  orientation  or  perfection  of  crystals 
after  initial  solidification;  this  is  referred  to  as  recrystallization 
(Fennema  et  al .,  1973). 

Chemical  changes.  Chemical  changes  that  can  occur  during  fro- 
zen storage  are  lipid  oxidation,  enzymatic  browning,  flavor  deteriora- 
tion, protein  insolubilization,  degradation  of  chlorophyll  and  vitamins 
(Fennema  et  al.,  1973).  Since  food  systems  are  so  complex,  both  chemi- 
cal and  physical  changes  are  responsible  for  damaging  frozen  foods. 
These  changes  will  be  discussed  in  greater  detail  as  they  relate  to 
specific  products. 
Stability  of  Frozen  Foods 

Resistance  to  freezer  damage  is  product  dependent.  Cell 
breakage,  cell  separation  and  impaired  texture  are  observed  frequently 
in  frozen  plant  tissues.  This  damage  has  been  attributed  to  the  semi- 
rigid, poorly  aligned  nature  of  many  plant  cells  (Fennema,  1975). 
Muscle  fibers,  however,  have  parallel  arrangements  allowing  flexibility 
so  muscle  fibers  usually  separate  rather  than  break  during  freezing, 
which  does  not  significantly  alter  meat  texture. 

Fruits.  The  quality  of  fruits  and  vegetables  following  the 
freezing  process  depends  on  variety,  growing  conditions  and  stage  of 
maturity  at  harvest  (Fennema,  1975).  Enzymatic  browning  is  a  major 
problem  in  fruits.  Since  heat  damages  desirable  sensory  properties  of 
fruit,  enzymatic  browning  usually  is  retarded  through  the  use  of  chemi- 
cal additives.  Sulfur  dioxide,  which  chemically  interacts  with  the 


12 


enzyme  substrate,  may  be  used  if  the  fruit  is  cooked  prior  to  consump- 
tion. Lowering  the  pH  to  a  value  less  desirable  for  enzyme  activity  is 
achieved  by  adding  acids  such  as  citric  and  malic,  thus  reducing 
enzymatic  browning.  A  more  effective  acid  is  ascorbic  acid  (Fennema, 
1975;  Guadagni  et  al.,  1957),  which  apparently  maintains  phenolic 
substances  in  a  reduced  and  colorless  state  rather  than  significantly 
changing  the  pH.  Although  more  expensive,  0. 1%  ascorbic  acid  is  fre- 
quently used  in  sugar  syrup  (0.3%  required  for  complete  effectiveness) 
to  control  enzymatic  browning,  and  it  is  also  a  valuable  nutrient. 

Sucrose  or  sugar  syrups  often  are  added  to  fruit  prior  to 
freezing  for  several  reasons:  for  sweetness;  to  retain  volatile 
aromas;  to  decrease  the  amount  of  frozen  water;  and  to  act  as  an 
oxygen  barrier,  which  decreased  enzymatic  browning  (Fennema,  1975; 
Guadagni  et  al.,  1957).  However,  sucrose  hydrates  often  crystallize 
in  cold  processed  frozen  fruit  spreads  during  storage  causing 
deterioration  in  appearance  and  texture.  Studies  indicate  the 
appearance  of  sucrose  hydrate  crystals  was  slowest  at  storage  tem- 
peratures of  -30°F  (-34°C)  and  fastest  at  -10°F  (-23°C)  dressier  et 
al.,  1968). 

Thiamin  and  ascorbic  acid  routinely  are  used  to  measure 
nutrient  retention  for  several  reasons  (Fennema,  1977).  These  vitamins 
are  water-soluble  and  highly  susceptible  to  chemical  dehydration.  They 
are  also  present  in  many  foods  and  are  essential  for  the  human  body. 
If  these  nutrients  are  retained  well,  it  generally  is  assumed  that 
other  nutrients  also  are  retained  well. 


13 


Ley  (1980)  reported  that  frozen  strawberries  and  raspberries, 
with  juice  or  syrup,  contain  approximately  803J  of  their  ascorbic  acid 
content  after  frozen  storage.  Crushed  or  sliced  fruits  experience  a 
greater  loss  than  frozen  whole  fruits.  Since  ascorbic  acid  is  added 
to  peaches  and  apricots  during  processing  to  prevent  discoloration,  a 
high  ascorbic  acid  content  is  found  in  these  fruits  after  frozen  storage. 

Somer,  et  al .  (1978)  found  ascorbic  acid  to  be  stable  under 
extreme  temperature  fluctuations  (greater  than  10°F)  in  frozen  juice 
concentrate.  The  B-vitamins  were  found  to  be  even  more  stable  than 
ascorbic  acid.  Researchers  in  the  early  1950's  (Bennett  et  al.,  1954) 
found  fruit  stored  at  0°F  and  -20°F  retained  more  ascorbic  acid  after  12 
months  of  frozen  storage  than  those  stored  at  +10°F.  Guadagni  et  al . 
(1957)  found  0°  to  be  a  satisfactory  storage  temperature  for  peaches 
with  respect  to  economy  and  quality  retention. 

Vegetables.  Vegetables  are  more  vulnerable  to  enzymatic 
deterioration  during  frozen  storage  than  any  other  food  group  (Ley, 
1980).  Crystallization  of  water  reduces  the  turgidity  of  cells  which 
causes  wilting  of  frozen  vegetables  dressier  et  al.,  1968).  Enzymes 
control  chemical  changes  and  will  initiate  undesirable  color  and  flavor 
changes  if  not  deactivated.  Therefore,  heat  treatment,  or  blanching 
(190°F  for  3  minutes  or  212°F  for  30  seconds)  is  necessary  to  control 
enzyme  activity  during  frozen  storage  (Fennema,  1975;  Ley,  1980). 
Blanching  will  inactivate  enzymes  (approximately  180oF),  reduce  micro- 
bial populations  and  enhance  some  flavor  and  texture  characteristics. 

Underblanching  vegetables  can  cause  greater  quality  deterioration 


14 


than  no  blanching,  because  partial  heating  will  disrupt  or  damage 
tissues  causing  enzymes  and  natural  substrates  to  react  more  quickly 
(Ley,  1980).  Also,  moderate  heat  can  inactivate  some  enzymes  and 
increase  activity  of  others,  producing  an  imbalance  that  will  accel- 
erate deterioration.  Toughness  is  another  result  of  underblanching. 

Overblanching  will  cause  chlorophyll  to  break  down  and  form 
pheophytin,  giving  green  vegetables  an  undesirable  color  change. 
Excess  heat  also  softens  tissue  to  an  undesirable  degree  (Ley,  1980). 
To  ensure  thorough  enzyme  deactivation,  large,  dense  food  should  be 
warmed  to  120°F  prior  to  blanching. 

Blanching  can  be  done  in  hot  water  or  steam.  Research  indi- 
cates hot  water  deactivates  enzymes  faster  than  steam  (Ley,  1980). 
However,  when  blanching  vegetables  with  a  large  quantity  of  cut 
surfaces,  steaming  is  recommended  to  prevent  leaching  of  nutrients. 
Stone  and  Young  (1984)  found  green  beans  blanced  in  a  microwave  oven 
greener  and  firmer  when  compared  to  conventional  blanching.  Off- 
flavors  and  a  "grassy"  aroma  were  found  in  green  beans  blanched  in  a 
microwave  oven. 

Vegetables  must  be  cooled  immediately  after  blanching  to  stop 
the  heating,  thus  minimizing  texture  damage  and  nutrient  loss.  Ley 
(1980)  reported  15-305!  of  vitamin  loss  occurs  during  blanching  and 
freezing.  Little  vitamin  loss  occurs  during  storage  if  temperatures  do 
not  rise  above  0°F,  which  prevents  oxidation.  Blanching  must  be  a 
compromise  between  the  destruction  of  enzymes  and  undesirable  textural 
changes  produced  by  the  heat  treatment. 


15 


Acceptability  of  cooked  and  uncooked  vegetables  prior  to 
freezing  was  studied  by  Woodroof  and  Atkinson,  as  reported  by  Tressler 
et  al .  (1968).  Lima  beans,  snap  beans,  soybeans,  okra  and  cream-style 
corn  remained  in  excellent  condition  after  being  stored  for  one  year  at 
0°F  (-18°C)  when  blanched  prior  to  freezing.  However,  if  these 
products  were  precooked,  quality  was  rated  fair  to  poor  after  storage. 
These  tests  indicated  that  as  heating  time  increased,  beyond  the  recom- 
mended blanching  time,  color,  aroma  and  flavor  deteriorated.  Cooked 
puree  of  pumpkin  and  sweet  potatoes  remained  in  excellent  condition 
after  frozen  storage,  however.  The  highest  quality  rhubarb  was 
obtained  when  blanching  was  omitted. 

Hanson  et  al .  (1950)  compared  quality  attributes  of  blanched 
and  precooked  frozen  peas,  sweet  corn,  Kentucky  Wonder  beans,  celery, 
carrots,  lima  beans,  peppers  and  Chinese  water  chestnuts.  Cooked  peas 
developed  an  off -flavor  faster  than  blanched  peas,  but  there  was  no  dif- 
ference in  degree  of  off -flavor,  indicating  overcooking  was  not  the 
cause  in  the  flavor  differences.  Packing  peas  in  liquid  such  as  cream 
sauce,  kept  the  air  from  coming  in  direct  contact  with  the  peas,  which 
prevented  the  development  of  off-flavors  during  storage.  Hanson  and 
co-workers  also  concluded  that  desired  crispness  could  be  obtained  by 
varying  cooking  times  prior  to  freezing. 

Hein  and  Hutchings  (1974)  reported  that  ascorbic  acid  content 
in  some  vegetables  decreased  as  much  as  fifty  percent  when  the  product 
was  frozen  and  held  at  16°F  for  six  months.   In  another  study  (Fennema, 
1977),  several  vegetables  (asparagus,  lima  beans,  green  beans,  broccoli 


16 


spears,  brussel  sprouts,  cauliflower,  whole  kernel  corn,  immature  green 
peas,  mashed  potatoes  and  spinach)  were  cooked  after  frozen  storage. 
Analysis  revealed  a  25  percent  decrease  in  thiamin  content  when  frozen 
and  fresh  vegetables  were  compared.  However,  freezing  was  found  to  be 
superior  to  canning,  because  three  times  more  thaimin  was  retained  in 
the  frozen  vegetables.  Bennett  et  al.  (1954)  found  ascorbic  acid 
retention  was  satisfactory  when  vegetables  were  stored  at  -20°F. 
Higher  storage  temperatures  showed  a  gradual  decrease  in  the  retention 
of  this  vitamin. 

Reducing  agents  such  as  sulfite  sometimes  are  added  to  water  of 
peeled  white  potatoes,  cabbage  and  salad  greens  when  food  is  held 
before  cooking.  Van  Zante  and  Johnson  (1970)  found  higher  ascorbic 
acid  retention  when  sulfites  were  used  to  inhibit  oxidation.  However, 
thiamin,  riboflavin,  and  niacin  were  reduced  slightly. 

The  nutritional  effects  of  unit  operations,  such  as  blanching, 
deep  frying,  and  dehydrating,  in  commercial  potato  processing  were 
investigated  by  Augustin  et  al .  (1979).  French  fries  and  preformed 
patties  were  frozen  and  later  freeze-dried.  Overall  retention  ranged 
from  53*  for  ascorbic  acid  to  90*  for  vitamin  B6,  in  preformed  patties. 
The  lower  ascorbic  acid  retention  in  preformed  patties  (53*)  as  com- 
pared to  French  fries  (small  fries  61%,  large  fries  69%)  was  attributed 
to  the  deep-frying  operation. 

Smaller  fries  had  significantly  lower  (p  <  0.05)  nutrient 
•retention,  except  for  thiamin  and  folic  acid,  probably  a  result  of 
nutrient  leaching.  Researchers  concluded  water  blanching  was  the  major 


17 


reason  for  nutrient  loss  during  commercial  frozen  French  fry  produc- 
tion, and  blanching  with  steam  produced  fries  with  a  a  higher  vitamin 
content. 

Eggs  and  Egg  Products.  Raw  egg  white  is  not  affected  by 
freezing  and  thawing  (Davis  et  al.,  1952).  However,  frozen  products 
containing  cooked  egg  whites  are  not  freeze-thaw  stable.  Ice  crystal 
formation  damages  the  coagulated  protein  gel  structure,  and  syneresis 
occurs  during  thawing  as  is  evident  in  frozen  custards  (Feiser  and 
Cotterill,  1983;  Tressler  et  al.,  1968). 

Feiser  and  Cotterill  (1983)  studied  the  effect  of  sodium 
chloride  on  the  composition,  serum  and  sensory  properties  of  cooked- 
frozen-thawed  scrambled  eggs  and  cooked-frozen-thawed-reheated  (CFTR) 
scrambled  eggs.  Mean  sensory  scores  of  fresh  compared  to  CFTR 
scrambled  eggs  were  significantly  different  (p  <   0.05)  from  0.6  to  1.0% 
salt.  Sensory  scores  for  unfrozen  eggs  indicated  that  no  difference 
could  be  detected  in  varying  salt  treatments  to  0.6%,  but  CFTR  scores 
showed  no  difference  to  0.4%  salt.  Mean  rankings  of  fresh  to  CFTR 
samples  were  significantly  different  (p  <  0.05)  throughout  varying  salt 
treatment.  Fresh  to  CFTR  sensory  scores  were  no  different  with  up  to 
0.4%  salt.  Results  indicate  0.4%  is  the  maximum  level  of  salt  that 
may  be  used  to  CFTR  egg  products  to  be  comparable  to  freshly  cooked 
scrambled  eggs. 

Researchers  concluded  that  the  addition  of  salt  (0-1.0%)  to 
scrambled  egg  products  decreases  the  amount  of  serum  loss  probably 
because  of  the  solubilizing  effect  of  salt  on  the  phosphorus-containing 


18 


components  (phospholipids,  ovalabumin,  and  phosvitin).  The  CFTR  pro- 
cess for  scrambled  eggs  increases  salty  taste  compared  to  the  fresh 
product.  This  may  be  related  to  the  decrease  in  moisture  loss  with  the 
increased  percentage  of  salt  in  CFTR  scrambled  eggs.  Therefore,  salt 
may  play  an  important  part  by  improving  moisture  retention.  They  also 
found  that  serum  volume  decreases  as  salt  concentration  increases,  but 
total  solids,  protein,  ash,  lipids,  sodium  chloride,  potassium,  iron 
and  phosphorus  levels  in  the  serum  increases. 
Gossett  and  Baker  (1983)  used  protein  modification  to  alter  the 
functionality  of  proteins  in  egg  albumen.  The  researchers  believed 
that  as  the  pH  is  raised,  the  negative  charges  might  cause  the 
increased  repulsion  among  peptide  chains,  enabling  the  protein  matrix 
to  entrap  more  water.  They  theorized  that  by  succinylating  the  pro- 
teins, the  amino  groups  bind  to  succinate  anions  with  two  carboxyl 
groups  causing  a  net  gain  in  the  negative  charge.  This  increased 
repulsion  between  carboxyl  groups  may  decrease  protein-protein  interac- 
tions, while  increasing  the  protein-water  interaction,  thus  improving 
water-retention  properties  of  the  gel. 

Gosset  and  Baker  (1983)  found  as  pH  increased  above  pH  9.5  the 
percent  of  expressible  moisture  (EM)  decreased  for  both  unfrozen  and 
nonfrozen  treatments  of  coagulated  egg  albumen.  As  proteins  were  suc- 
cinylated  up  to  a  certain  level,  such  as  0.4%  (g  anhydride/g  albumen), 
the  succinyl  groups  and  their  negative  charges  contributed  to  the 
general  expansion  of  protein  allowing  greater  water  retention.  Further 
levels  succinylation  exhibited  no  further  decrease  in  percentage  EM  of 


19 


coagulated  gel.  The  cook  value  did  not  change.  A  significant  increase 
in  percentage  EM  was  observed  in  all  frozen  samples.  Raw  albumen 
adjusted  to  pH  9.5  or  greater  exhibited  significantly  (p  <^  0.05) 
decreased  percentage  EM  in  coagulated  albumen  and  whole  egg  gels  for 
frozen  and  nonfrozen  treatments.  Raw  albumen  adjusted  to  pH  10.5  and 
11.0  required  less  time  to  attain  the  same  cook  value  than  the  pH  9.0 
control . 

Meat,  fish  and  poultry.  Protein  denaturation  and  oxidation  are 
responsible  for  the  major  undesirable  changes  which  occur  in  meat, 
fish,  and  poultry  after  frozen  storage.  Also,  as  with  all  foods,  the 
microbiological  aspect  of  frozen  meats  is  of  utmost  importance.  Frozen 
storage  results  in  virtually  no  loss  of  thiamin  or  riboflavin  for  meat, 
fish,  or  poultry,  (Ley,  1980). 

After  comparing  raw  and  cooked  pork,  Watts  and  Peng  (1947) 
found  rancidity  increased  rapidly  as  pH  decreased  (pH  6.5-4.8)  in  raw 
ground  pork.  However,  pH  had  no  effect  on  the  rate  of  rancidif ication 
if  ground  pork  was  cooked  prior  to  freezing.  Therefore,  they  concluded 
that  precooked  frozen  pork  was  superior  to  raw  frozen  pork  after 
storage.  They  also  found  some  salts  (sodium  chloride,  sodium  nitrate, 
sodium  acetate,  magnesium  chloride  and  potassium  nitrate)  rapidly 
increased  rancidity  in  raw  ground  pork,  but  not  precooked  pork  during 
frozen  storage.  The  effects  of  acids  and  salts  on  rancidity  develop- 
ment in  raw  pork  was  attributed  to  the  activity  of  a  fat  peroxidizing 
enzyme,  possibly  on  hemoglobin.  Decomposition  of  hemoglobin,  resulting 
in  meat  discoloration,  also  occurred  when  meat  became  rancid.  Watts 


20 


and  Peng  attributed  the  slower  rate  of  rancidif ication  in  the  cooked 
pork  to  the  fact  that  peroxidizing  enzymes  are  inactivated  during 
cooking. 

Kraft  et  al.  (1979)  studied  the  influence  of  meat  composition 
and  effects  of  different  freezing  methods  on  microbiological  quality  of 
beef  patties.  After  beef  patties  containing  30?  fat,  20%  fat,  and  20% 
fat  with  soy  protein  were  frozen  using  liquid  nitrogen,  liquid  carbon 
dioxide,  or  by  mechanical  freezing  and  stored  for  five  months, 
researchers  concluded  that  all  freezing  methods  were  effective  in 
reducing  bacteria.  However,  cryogenic  freezing  of  beef  patties 
containing  20%  fat,  with  or  without  soy  protein  had  significantly 
greater  reduction  in  total  viable  mesophiles  and  psychrotrophs  than 
patties  with  30%  fat,  mechanically  frozen. 

Fennema  (1975)  reported  that  prompt  chilling  at  10  -  20°C 
(below  10°C  "cold  shortening"  occurs)  for  at  least  20  hours  slowed  the 
rate  of  glycolysis  of  slaughtered  animal  carcasses,  thus  reducing 
microbial  growth  and  decreasing  muscle  contraction.  Although  aging  of 
beef  enhances  flavor;  increases  tenderness,  juiciness  and  water-holding 
capacity;  and  decreases  thaw  exudate  and  lipid  stability,  it  is  usually 
not  done  prior  to  freezing.  Lamb  requires  little  or  no  aging,  and  pork 
should  not  be  aged  because  of  its  unstable  lipid  content. 

Fennema  (1975)  also  reported  that  papain  and  other  proteolytic 
enzymes  are  sometimes  used  prior  to  freezing  to  tenderize  meat.  These 
enzymes  are  injected  prior  to  slaughter  or  by  dripping,  spraying  or 
injecting  the  carcass. 


21 


Thiamin  is  used  to  determine  vitamin  retention  in  meat. 
According  to  Fennema  (1977),  thiamin  is  usually  studied  because  it  is 
water-soluble,  highly  susceptible  to  chemical  dehydration,  present  in 
many  foods,  required  in  the  diet,  and  sometimes  deficient  in  the  diet. 
It  is  generally  assumed  that  if  thiamin  is  well  retained,  other 
nutrients  are  also  well  retained.  Fennema  (1977)  found  thiamin  losses 
to  be  insignificant  in  various  animal  tissues  after  frozen  storage. 

The  major  problems  in  freezing  fish  are  oxidative  deteriora- 
tion, dehydration,  toughening,  loss  of  juiciness  and  excessive  thaw 
exudate  (drip),  according  to  Fennema  (1975).  Following  correct  sani- 
tary procedures  and  freezing  as  promptly  as  possible  is  essential, 
because  fish  are  especially  subject  to  deterioration  by  microorganisms. 
To  minimize  contraction  and  lessen  toughening  during  freezing,  Fennema 
suggests  completing  rigormortis  at  a  low  nonfreezing  temperature  prior 
to  freezing.  However,  quality  is  maintained  when  large  pieces  of  fish 
are  stored  at  least  2  months  at  -10°C  and  thawed  slowly  to  avoid  muscle 
contraction. 

Eliminating  oxygen,  avoiding  contamination  with  oxidative  cata- 
lysts and  irradiation,  using  antioxidants  and  low  storage  temperatures 
decrease  undesirable  oxidative  changes  in  fish  (Fennema,  1975). 
According  to  results  reported  by  Tressler  and  associates  (1968),  pro- 
tein denaturation  causes  the  toughening  of  cooked  lobster,  crab  and 
shrimp  during  prolonged  frozen  storage. 

Rapid  glycolysis  may  also  increase  toughness  in  poultry  as  well 
as  fish  (Fennema,  1975).  Therefore,  slaughter  and  dressing  operations 


22 


should  be  done  in  a  manner  that  does  not  stimulate  the  rate  of  post- 
mortem glycolysis  (chilling  and  aging  poultry  for  1-6  hours  above  0°C). 

To  minimize  growth  of  microorganisms,  poultry  should  be  cooled 
quickly  to  10°F  (50°F)  or  less.  Chilling  is  done  usually  in  crushed 
ice  and  water  to  avoid  moisture  loss  (Fennema,  1975). 

Oxidation  and  resultant  rancidity  are  chemical  changes  likely 
to  occur  when  fatty  foods  are  frozen  and  stored.  Turkey  fat  is  par- 
ticularly subject  to  oxidative  rancidity  (Tressler  et  al.,  1968). 
Lineweaver  et  al .  (1952)  have  shown  that  the  addition  of  an  antioxidant 
to  turkey  during  cooking  greatly  retards  rancidity  development. 

Baked  products  and  other  starch-containing  products.  Freezing 
has  been  a  popular  way  of  increasing  shelf  life  of  yeast  doughs  and 
other  baked  goods  economically  while  retaining  a  high  quality  product. 
However,  as  the  food  system  becomes  more  complex  the  problems  encoun- 
tered during  freezing  and  frozen  storage  increase.  Each  ingredient 
must  be  considered  independently  and  then  in  relation  to  one  another. 

Starch  is  a  major  constituent  of  wheat  flour  which  is  used  in 
baked  products  as  well  as  many  other  products  including  pasta,  gravies 
and  sauces.  Therefore,  the  emphasis  here  will  be  placed  on  the  effects 
of  freezing  on  starch. 

Uncooked  starch  are  virtually  unaffected  by  freezing  in  the 
presence  of  water  (Tressler  et  al.,  1968).  However,  if  starch  granules 
are  gelatinized,  various  physical  changes  occur  during  frozen  storage. 
Most  starches  contain  two  types  of  molecules,  amylopectin  (branched 
fraction)  and  amylose  (linear  fraction),  the  former  being  the  major 


23 


component.  Amylose  fractions  have  a  strong  tendency  to  associate  with 
one  another  through  hydrogen-bonding  between  hydroxyl  groups;  this  is 
referred  to  as  starch  retrogradation  dressier  et  al.,  1968).  This 
results  in  an  insoluble  precipitate  and  a  rigid  gel.  Retrogradation 
of  linear  molecules  is  virtually  irreversible.   However,  retrograda- 
tion of  branched  molecules  can  be  reversed  readily  by  heating  to 
122-140°F  (50-60°C). 

Association  of  starch  molecules  increases  viscosity  or  even 
congelation  which  causes  thickened  sauces  to  lose  their  smooth,  creamy 
consistency  during  freezing,  and  become  lumpy  or  curdled.  Reheating 
only  partially  restores  the  original  product  appearance.  Retrograda- 
tion also  causes  a  dull  opaque  appearance  to  fruit  pie-filling  when 
frozen. 

The  most  objectionable  effect  of  linear  and  branched  molecule 
association  is  the  loss  of  water-holding  capacity  resulting  in  synere- 
sis  when  frozen  food  is  thawed.  Although  recooking  will  frequently 
reconstitute  a  homogenous  paste  because  branched  molecules  dissociate 
and  expand  to  reabsorb  the  water,  consumers  find  syneresis  highly 
objectionable  and  they  associate  it  with  "curdling"  and  microbiological 
spoilage.  Also,  the  bottom  pie  crust  will  become  soggy  if  syneresis 
occurs  during  thawing.  Slow  freezing  increases  the  starch  con- 
centration which  promotes  associative  bonding  (Tressler  et  al . ,  1968). 
Rapid  freezing  is  essential,  and  is  important  to  keep  the  pie  fully 
frozen  until  baked.   If  thawing  and  refreezing  occur,  even  the  most 
stable  food  will  break  down.  Slow  thawing  may  be  almost  as  detrimental 


24 


to  the  texture  and  consistency  of  starch  foods  as  slow  freezing. 

Chan  and  Toledo  (1976)  studied  the  extent  of  starch  retrograda- 
tion  of  gelatinized  starch  gels  by  measuring  the  water-holding  capacity 
(WHO.  The  WHC  was  found  to  be  primarily  dependent  upon  the 
resistance  where  water  to  ice  transformation  occurred  as  well  as  the 
freezing  process  used.  Little  change  in  the  WHC  occurred  during  pre- 
cooling  to  the  freezing  point  or  below  the  freezing  temperature.  An 
inverse  relationship  was  observed  between  the  WHC  of  the  frozen  starch 
gel  and  the  extent  of  reconstitution. 

Normal  cereal  starches  (corn,  sorghum,  wheat  and  rice)  have  a 
high  degree  of  linear  retrogradation  resulting  in  products  that  are 
prone  to  form  gels,  develop  opacity  and  have  a  decreased  water-holding 
capacity  (Tressler  et  al.,  1968).  While  unmodified  root  and  tuber 
starches  (tapioca  and  potato)  have  a  lower  content  of  linear  fraction, 
and  are  less  susceptible  to  retrogradation,  they  swell  extensively  when 
cooked  in  water,  resulting  in  cohesive,  slimy  pastes.  "Waxy"  or  amylo- 
pectin  starches  have  been  developed  which  contain  only  branched  starch, 
but  are  also  cohesive;  subsequently,  they  usually  are  not  used  in 
foods. 

To  alleviate  some  of  the  above  problems,  ungelatinized  starch 
granules  are  chemically  cross-bonded  in  alkaline  medium  (trace  amounts 
of  ester  or  ether  crosslinking)  which  protects  the  granules  against 
excessive  swelling  (Tressler  et  al.,  1968).  However,  cross-bonding 
substantially  reduces  cold  storage  and  freeze  stability  of  starch.  A 
second  modification  is  done  on  the  cross-bonded  starch  by  introducing 


25 


acetate  ester  groups  or  ionized  phosphate  ester  groups.  This  process 
reduces  the  alignment  of  linear  chains  and  linear  segments  of  branched 
molecules.  The  result  was  an  improved  freeze  resistant  product  while 
the  desired  quality  attributes  of  the  pasted  starch  (clarity,  visco- 
sity, acid  resistance  and  water-holding  capacity)  were  maintained 
(Tressler  et  al.,  1968). 

Schoch  (1968)  studied  the  cold  storage  stability  and  freeze 
resistance  of  various  food  starches  by  subjecting  a  five  percent 
cooked  starch  paste  to  successive  freeze-thaw  cycles  and  determining 
the  rate  of  syneresis  or  water  separation  from  the  pasted  starch.  Two 
patterns  of  instability  were  observed:  (1)  a  slow  progressive  synere- 
sis with  each  successive  freeze-thaw  cycle,  and  (2)  no  water  separation 
for  a  number  of  cycles,  followed  by  rapid  deterioration.  Specific 
findings  by  Schoch  (1968)  include: 

(1)  Normal  unmodified  sorghum  starch  was  highly  unstable, 
having  more  than  305J  water  separation  after  one  freeze-thaw 
cycle. 

(2)  Unmodified  waxy  sorghum  and  waxy  maize  starch  withstood 
three  freeze-thaw  cycles  before  substantial  syneresis  occurred. 

(3)  Waxy  rice  flour  was  very  stable,  with  no  syneresis  until 
after  seven  freeze-thaw  cycles. 

(4)  Starch  stability  generally  decreases  substantially  at  pH  3. 

(5)  Cross-bonding  waxy  sorghum  starch  with  0.06%  trimetaphos- 
phate  considerably  decreased  stability,  probably  because  the 
starch  is  less  dispersed,  thus  in  a  more  concentrated  state 
allowing  for  more  molecular  association. 

(6)  Freeze  resistance  of  waxy  sorghum  and  waxy  maize  starch  was 
improved  when  either  phosphate  or  acetyl  ester  groups  were 
cross-bonded  with  the  starch. 

Gravies  and  sauces,  essential  to  many  precooked  frozen  meat 


26 


products,  often  curdle  and  become  unappetizing  in  appearance.  Baldwin 
et  al.  (1972)  investigated  the  effects  of  freezing  on  waxy  milo  and 
modified  waxy  maize  starches  than  for  those  thickened  with  waxy  rice 
flour.  Also,  gravy  thickened  with  new  waxy  rice  flour  was  more  desir- 
able (p  <  0.05)  in  texture,  mouthf eel ,  and  overall  acceptability  than 
the  gravy  thickened  with  old  waxy  rice  flour  which  had  been  stored  at 
ambient  temperatures  for  five  years. 

Grains  of  filtrate,  obtained  after  centrifuging  and  filtering 
gravies  were  greatest  in  the  product  containing  new  waxy  flour  and  at 
least  in  that  made  with  cross-bonded  waxy  milo  starch.  A  significant 
(p  <  0.01)  positive  correlation  (r  =  0.678)  was  found  between  viscosity 
and  sensory  evaluation  for  consistency  for  gravies.  A  significant  (p  < 
0.01)  negative  correlation  (r  =  -0.519)  occurred  between  viscosity  and 
amount  of  filtrate. 

Temperature  is  an  important  factor  in  determining  the  rate  of 
retrogradation.  Wheat  starch  retrogradation  occurs  most  readily  at 
-4°C  (Colli  son,  1968).  At  extreme  temperatures  the  Brownian  motion  of 
the  macromolecules  are  either  too  intense  or  too  slow  for  association 
to  take  place. 

Freeze-thaw  studies  conducted  on  instant  dehydrated  potato  gra- 
nules by  Ooraikul  and  associates  (1974)  indicate  retrogradation  of  amy- 
lose  occurred  during  the  freezing  and  thawing,  which  decreased  the 
strength  of  the  cell  binding  matrix.  Surfactants,  namely  glycerol 
monostrearate  and  propylene  glycol -monostearate,  were  found  to  reduce 
the  content  of  free  starch.  This  resulted  in  an  improvement  of 


27 


textural  quality  of  the  instant  dehydrated  potato  granules. 

Escape  of  carbon  dioxide  is  the  major  problem  in  frozen  bat- 
ters. The  separation  of  ice  increases  the  carbon  dioxide  in  the 
remaining  liquid  phase  until  the  concentration  becomes  so  high  it  will 
not  stay  in  solution  (Tressler  et  al.,  1968).  Also,  coagulation 
resulting  from  protein  denaturation  allows  more  carbon  dioxide  to 
escape. 

The  longer  yeast  doughs  are  stored,  the  more  slowly  the  dough 
will  rise  after  it  is  thawed.  Yeast  cells  gradually  lose  their 
viability,  and  some  carbon  dioxide  is  lost  because  of  the  separation 
and  growth  of  ice  crystals  (Tressler  et  al.,  1968). 

Tressler  et  al .  (1968)  drew  the  following  conclusions  con- 
cerning frozen  pasted  starch  systems. 

(1)  The  higher  the  starch  concentration,  the  more  rapid  is  the 
association,  because  the  closer  the  molecules  are  to  one 
another,  the  greater  the  probability  of  intermolecular  com- 
bination. 

(2)  Associative  bonding  increases  as  the  temperature  nears  the 
freezing  point,  due  to  slowing  kinetic  motion. 

(3)  The  longer  the  pasted  starch  is  held  in  a  near-frozen 
state,  the  greater  the  association.  However,  no  change  occurs 
while  in  a  "deep-frozen"  state  (-12°F  or  -25°C). 

(4)  High  initial  hydration  and  dispersion  of  starch  molecules 
gives  more  stability  to  thoroughly  cooked  starch  pastes  than 
under-cooked  starch. 

(5)  The  higher  the  acidity,  down  to  pH  3,  the  greater  the 
tendency  of  the  starch  to  associate. 

(6)  Sugar  usually  reduces  association  of  starch,  but  higher 
concentrations  interfere  with  optimum  cooking  which  limits 
starch  hydration. 


28 


(7)  Introducing  chemical  derivative  groups  (esters  or  ethers) 
into  starch  molecules  prevents  association  between  linear 
chains  and  linear  segments  of  branched  molecules. 

Effects  of  Thawing  on  Frozen  Foods 

Unsafe  methods  have  contributed  to  the  recent  increases  in  the 
incidence  of  foodborne  illness  (Ley,  1980).  Frozen  food  is  either 
allowed  to  thaw  in  refrigerators,  sometimes  requiring  three  or  more 
days  to  thaw,  or  thawed  at  room  temperature,  which  is  extremely  con- 
ducive to  increased  microbial  contamination. 

Precooked  frozen  foods  are  more  vulnerable  to  contamination 
than  raw  frozen  products  because  of  additional  exposure  to  130-145°F 
danger  zone  during  processing.  Therefore,  convenience  and  ready  pre- 
pared foods  that  are  thawed  and  served  cold,  without  further  heat 
treatment,  present  a  hazard  if  they  are  not  thawed  properly  to  restrict 
microbiological  growth  (Ley,  1980). 

Fluid  is  drawn  out  of  the  cell  to  form  ice  crystals  during 
freezing.  A  controlled  thaw  of  a  raw  product  allows  time  for  the  cell 
to  reabsorb  a  portion  of  the  fluid  from  the  melting  ice  crystals.  This 
process  will  yield  a  moist,  reheated  end  product  with  less  water- 
soluble  nutrient  loss.  However,  a  slow  rate  of  thawing  increases 
"drip"  or  exudation  (Livingston  et  al.,  1973). 

Damage  which  occurs  during  thawing  usually  is  caused  by  chemi- 
cal (protein  insolubi 1 i zation  or  lipid  oxidation)  or  physical  changes 
(recrystallization  and  volume  changes).  Microbial  growth  can  cause 
significant  damage,  but  if  recommended  sanitary  practices  are  followed 


29 


throughout  the  freezing,  thawing  and  reheating  process,  this  is  not  a 
problem. 

Fennema  (1973)  described  an  experiment  using  a  non-flowable 
starch  gel  to  compare  the  different  rates  of  freezing  and  thawing. 
Large  temperature  gradients  were  found  in  the  outer  frozen  zone  during 
freezing,  and  freezing  was  completed  in  approximately  26  minutes.  The 
frozen  phase  rose  rapidly  to  the  melting  point  and  remained  there  for 
the  duration  of  the  thawing  process,  which  was  not  close  to  completion 
after  30  minutes.  Twice  as  much  time  was  required  to  thaw  the  center 
of  the  starch  gel  as  was  needed  to  freeze  it. 

Fennema  (1973)  stated  that  the  additional  time  required  for 
thawing  just  below  the  melting  temperature  is  unfavorable  because 
recrystall ization  and  growth  of  the  microorganisms  are  both  more  likely 
here  than  at  any  other  subfreezing  temperature.  Also,  many  chemical 
reactions  occur  rapidly  at  temperatures  just  below  freezing. 
Differences  in  the  rates  of  freezing  and  thawing  would  be  less  than 
previously  stated  in  foods  with  a  moderately  low  water  content  such  as 
meat,  or  with  substantial  air  content  such  as  fruits  and  vegetables. 

The  state  of  food  when  cooked  or  reheated  affects  quality 
of  the  final  product.  Burr  (1971)  studied  the  effects  of  time  and  tem- 
perature of  holding  par-fries  (partially  deep  fried  before  freezing)  in 
thawed  condition  on  the  loss  of  water  and  uptake  of  fat  during  finish- 
frying,  and  on  retrogradation  of  the  starch  in  par-fries. 

Frozen  par-fried  French-fry  cuts  allowed  to  thaw  and  held, 
decreased  in  weight  while  fat  uptake  increased.  Finished  product 


30 


decreased  in  weight  about  7%   after  holding  3  days  at  50°F  and  fat 
uptake  increased  about  25%.     Substantial  loss  in  yield  occurs  in  a 
little  as  1.5  hours  at  50°F  or  5  hours  at  40°F.  Yield  decreases  and 
fat  absorption  increases  as  the  temperature  of  the  product  increases 
prior  to  frying.  The  rate  of  retrogradation  decreases  with  increasing 
temperature  suggesting  that  the  two  phenomena  are  unrelated. 

Langlois  et  al .  (1979)  studied  the  effects  of  curing  frozen 
hams  and  thawed  (13°C)  hams  with  and  without  nitrate  on  the  weight 
loss,  visual  appearance,  eating  quality,  composition  and  microbiologi- 
cal characteristics  of  dry-cured  aged  hams.  Nitrate  in  the  cure  had  no 
effect  on  weight  loss.  However,  weight  loss  was  higher  when  hams  were 
cured  after  being  thawed  as  compared  to  being  cured  from  the  frozen 
state.  Subjective  evaluations  for  color,  aroma  and  general  appearance 
revealed  no  significant  differences  among  the  hams.  Sensory  panel 
members  scored  frozen  hams  more  tender  than  unfrozen  hams  (p  <  0.01). 
However,  no  significant  differences  in  flavor  or  overall  satisfaction 
were  found.  Warner-Bratzler  shear  values  were  lower  than  those  usually 
reported  for  country  hams.  Moisture  contents  of  the  lean  of  the  frozen 
hams  and  unfrozen  hams  were  57.3  and  56.3,  respectively. 

Coliforms  were  detected  only  from  the  thawed  hams  before 
curing.  Both  frozen  and  thawed  hams  contained  detectable  levels  of 
Staphylococci,  but  were  not  detected  when  thawed  hams  were  cured  with 
potassium  nitrite  (KN03)  and  sodium  nitrite  (NaNO?).  All  pre-cure 
counts  were  significantly  higher  for  thawed  hams  than  frozen  hams  at 
the  1%  level,  except  Pseudomanas  (7°C)  which  was  significant  at  the  5% 


31 


level.  Generally,  after  curing,  counts  were  higher  in  thawed  hams  than 
frozen  ones.  However,  the  only  signficant  difference  (p  <  0.01)  not 
related  to  KN03  was  the  aerobic  count  (37°C).  Cured,  frozen  hams  had 
higher  counts  than  hams  thawed  prior  to  the  curing  after  3  months. 
These  higher  counts  were  probably  related  to  lower  salt  and  high 
moisture  content  of  the  frozen  hams.  Langlois  et  al .  (1979)  concluded, 
dry-cured  hams  can  be  produced  using  frozen  hams  without  affecting 
quality  and  without  excessive  microbial  growth. 
Thawing  problems  include  (Fennema,  1973): 

(1)  Thawing  is  slower  than  freezing. 

(2)  Maximum  temperature  differential  permissible  during  thaw- 
ing (approximately  100°C  or  less)  is  much  less  than  that  which 
is  feasible  during  freezing  (200°C). 

(3)  Thawing  is  potentially  more  detrimental  than  freezing, 
because  much  time  is  spent  near  the  melting  point  where 
recrystallization  and  even  microbial  growth. 

(4)  Thawing  of  food  is  often  conducted  by  persons  who  are 
unskilled  and  sometimes  unconcerned  with  correct  procedures. 

Proper  thawing  is  an  important  step  in  the  preparation  of  quality  and 

safe  meal  components  (Ley,  1980). 

Temperature  Fluctuation 

The  average  distribution  time  of  frozen  foods  is  five  and  one- 
half  months  at  an  average  temperature  of  3°F.  Many  frozen  food  manu- 
facturers estimate  the  products  may  be  subjected  to  as  many  as  five 
freeze-thaw  cycles  before  it  is  consumed.  Quality  and  acceptability  of 
frozen  foods  are  eroded  away  by  every  experience  (i.e.  extended  storage 


32 


or  temperature  fluctuation).  Quality  erosion  is  progressive  and  irre- 
parable (Van  Arsdel,  1957;  Michener  et  al.,  1960). 

Generally,  as  temperature  increases  quality  storage  life 
decreases,  because  a  greater  amount  of  free  water  allows  chemical  reac- 
tions to  occur,  contributing  to  spoilage  and  deterioration  (Ley,  1980). 
Temperature  fluctuation  during  frozen  storage  will  cause  more  damage 
than  freezing  above  0°F,  because  water  is  allowed  to  melt  and  slowly 
refreeze,  resulting  in  the  formation  of  larger  ice  crystals.  These 
larger  crystals  cause  more  structural  damage,  deteriorating  original 
texture  characteristics,  increasing  drip  loss  and  increasing  the  loss 
of  water-soluble  nutrients,  flavor  and  pigments.  An  example  of  a  tex- 
tural  change  is  the  increase  in  graininess  of  ice  cream,  sherbets  and 
ices  after  frozen  storage,  because  the  ice  crystals  have  increased  in 
size  (Tressler  et  al.,  1968).  Fluctuating  and  high  storage  tem- 
peratures accelerate  crystal  growth. 

Michener  et  al .  (1960)  reported  data  from  earlier  studies  on 
peas,  green  beans,  cauliflower  and  spinach.  When  these  vegetables  were 
held  at  20°F  or  below,  taste  test  results  suggested  an  inverse  rela- 
tionship between  temperature  and  the  time  elapsed  before  appearance  of 
an  off-flavor.  Flavor  deteriorated  rapidly  at  higher  temperatures  in 
all  cases. 

If  maximum  storage  periods  are  extended  or  if  temperature  fre- 
quently fluctuates  above  0°F,  the  following  changes  can  occur  (Ley, 
1980): 


33 


(1)  Cured  meat  products  lose  red  color  turn  brownish  gray  and 
change  flavor  due  to  oxidative  reactions  between  sodium 
chloride  and  fatty  acids. 

(2)  Batters  and  unbaked  goods  containing  baking  powder  have  a 
short  storage  life  because  the  acid  and  soda  slowly  react 
during  storage  causing  carbon  dioxide  to  escape  which  decreases 
leavening  action. 

(3)  Since  spices  are  volatile,  changes  occur  in  flavor  during 
freezing. 

(4)  Undesirable  flavor  changes  occur  in  egg  yolks. 

(5)  Products  with  fruit  that  is  not  immersed  in  liquid  remain 
exposed  to  oxidative  action  from  the  air. 

(6)  Cooked  egg  whites  toughen. 

(7)  Sauces  and  gravies  thickened  with  wheat  flour  or  corn 
starch  will  retrograde  causing  fluid  separation  and  curdling. 

(8)  Cooked  shellfish  toughen  because  of  protein  coagulation. 
Oxidative  reactions  cause  color  and  flavor  changes. 

(9)  Fried  products  are  subject  to  oxidative  reactions,  because 
most  of  the  fat  remains  on  the  food  surface  which  is  in  direct 
contact  with  the  air. 

(10)  Breakdown  of  chlorophyll  to  pheophytin  changes  natural 
green  to  olive  green  in  raw,  blanched  vegetables.  Ascorbic 
acid  is  oxidized  to  dehydroascorbic  acid  and  then  to  diketogulo- 
nic  acid  causing  flavor  changes. 

(11)  Red  fruits  turn  brown,  because  anthocyanins  leach  into  the 
packing  syrup. 

(12)  Enzymatic  reactions  turn  yellow  fruits  brown,  because  of 
oxidation.  Oxidation  also  reduces  ascorbic  acid  content. 

As  previously  stated,  subjecting  foods  to  freeze-thaw  cycles 

usually  results  in  inferior  products.  However,  a  freeze-thaw  process 

for  production  of  potato  granules  has  been  developed  to  eliminate  or 

minimize  some  of  the  major  problems  of  conventional  Add-Back  (A-B) 

process  (Ooraikul,  1978).  Essential  steps  in  the  A-B  process  are 


34 


precooking,  mash-mixing  and  conditioning.  Precooking  is  important 
because  it  strengthens  the  potato  cells  so  they  can  withstand 
compression  and  shear  force  during  the  mash-mixing  step.  Without  pre- 
cooking, potato  cells  may  be  damaged  resulting  in  a  texturally  inferior 
product.  A  problem  in  the  A-B  process  is  incomplete  final  cooking 
which  results  in  hard  lumps  causing  a  high  proportion  of  discard.  The 
major  problem  occurs  during  the  mash-mixing  step  where  the  cooked 
potato  tissue  is  subdivided  by  mixing,  pressing,  rubbing  and  shearing 
with  recycled  dry  granules.  About  85-90%  of  the  total  granule  output 
has  to  be  recycled  to  the  mash-mixer,  which  leaves  only  10-15%  of  the 
granules  to  be  packed  as  product.  Most  granules  go  through  8-10  pro- 
cessing cycles.  The  F-T  process  eliminates  the  pre-cooking  step  and 
since  the  process  is  a  "straight-through"  one,  no  recycling  of  dry  gra- 
nules is  necessary.  The  total  output  of  the  F-T  process  yields  85-90% 
packaged  product  (Ooraikul,  1978).  Approximately  85-90%  of  the  total 
granule  output  must  be  recycled  during  the  conventional  process,  com- 
pared to  10%  when  the  freeze-thaw  process  is  used.  Other  advantages  of 
the  freeze-thaw  process  include  minimal  microbial  growth,  superior 
texture  and  flavor  as  well  as  higher  nutrient  retention,  because  pro- 
cessing occurs  at  lower  temperatures. 

Reheating  Frozen  Food  Products 

The  final  phase  of  the  freezing  process  is  reheating.  The 
first  consideration  is  whether  the  food  should  be  heated  from  the 


35 


thawed  or  frozen  state.  Ley  (1980)  suggested  that  convenience  and 
ready  prepared  foods  that  are  served  hot  should  be  thawed  prior  to 
reheating  to  retain  quality  and  reduce  surface  dehydration  and 
scorching.  Reheating  in  a  conventional  oven  from  a  refrigerated  versus 
a  frozen  state  will  reduce  total  heating  time  by  as  much  as  130  percent. 
A  special  problem  arises  when  microwave  ovens  are  used  to  reheat 
frozen  foods,  because  food  mass  temperatures  will  be  not  uniform. 
Inconsistent  energy  distribution  within  the  oven  cavity  and  variations 
in  product  densities  result  in  uneven  product  thawing  during  heating 
(Ley,  1980;  Glew,  1973).  Thawed  portions  absorb  greater  amounts  of 
energy,  rising  in  temperature  more  quickly  than  unthawed  portions. 
Therefore,  controlled  thawing  is  necessary  prior  to  microwave  heating 
to  reduce  total  heating  time  and  to  promote  uniform  product  tem- 
peratures (Harrison,  1980). 

Uncontrolled  thawing  and  rapid  heating  without  prior  thawing  of 
many  frozen  products  can  result  in  waste,  spoilage,  flavor  and  texture 
changes,  discoloration  and  increased  moisture  and  nutrient  loss  (Ley, 
1980). 

Energy  is  a  limited  resource  and,  therefore,  is  receiving 
increased  attention  in  food  service  operations  (Dahl  et  al.,  1981). 
Twelve  per  cent  of  the  total  energy  generated  in  the  United  States  is 
used  in  food  systems  (Fennema,  1975).  In  1910  approximately  one 
calorie  of  energy  output  was  needed  to  produce  one  calorie  of  food  out- 
put. In  1970,  nine  calories  of  energy  output  were  required  per  calorie 
of  food  output  (Fennema,  1975).  Since  microwave  ovens  are  considered 


36 


energy-efficient,  their  use  for  reheating  has  increased  dramatically  in 
household  as  well  as  food  service  situations  (Dahl  et  al . ,  1981). 
Snyder  (1978)  has  estimated  that  microwave  ovens  can  save  up  to  65%  of 
the  energy  required  to  heat  small  portions  of  food  when  compared  to 
convection  ovens. 

Microwave  heating  has  been  used  for  approximately  30  years,  the 
predominant  development  has  been  for  cooking  and  reheating  food  in 
domestic  and  catering  situations  (Sale,  1976).  Characteristics  that 
differentiate  microwave  heating  from  conventional  heating  include 
(Sale,  1976): 

(1)  Microwaves  generate  heat  within  the  food  itself;  no  heat 
transfer  is  involved.  Little  heat  conduction  occurs  within  the 
food  itself,  causing  the  temperature  of  the  food  to  rise  very 
rapidly. 

(2)  Microwaves  do  not  penetrate  metal,  but  pass  through  plas- 
tics, glass  and  paper,  allowing  food  sealed  in  these  materials 
to  be  heated. 

(3)  Uneven  heating  occurs  because  of  the  geometry  of  the  food. 
Edge  overheating  is  a  frequent  phenomenon  associated  with 
microwave  heating. 

(4)  Thermal  runaway  occurs  during  thawing,  because  water 
absorbs  microwaves  more  readily  than  ice. 

Microwave  cookery  has  different  effects  on  food  quality, 

depending  on  the  physical  and  chemical  composition  of  the  product. 

Many  vegetables  have  an  exceptionally  full  flavor  and  color. 

Vegetables  may  be  cooked  in  many  cases  without  water,  since  the 

microwave  energy  will  directly  cook  each  unit  in  its  own  water  content. 

This  results  in  a  minimum  of  nutrient  loss  by  leaching  into  the  cooking 

water.  Covering  the  food  is  also  unnecessary,  resulting  in  shorter 


37 


cooking  times.  However,  uniformity  in  food  pieces  is  essential  for 
even  heating  (Copson,  1962). 

The  purpose  of  the  investigation  by  Klein  et  al .  (1979)  was  to 
determine  the  folacin  content  and  retention  of  conventionally  and 
microwave  cooked  frozen  vegetables  (spinach,  peas,  green  beans  and 
broccoli).  No  significant  differences  were  found  in  folacin  content 
(78-105*)  among  the  cooking  methods,  except  broccoli  (51-59%).  The 
lower  folacin  content  was  attributed  to  the  presence  of  heat  labile 
forms  of  folacin. 

Mabesa  and  Baldwin  (1979)  cooked  frozen  peas  with  and  without 
water  in  a  domestic  microwave  oven  (115  V,  550  watts)  and  in  an  insti- 
tutional microwave  oven  (220  V,  1150  watts).  Peas  cooked  without  water 
had  a  higher  ascorbic  acid  content  (95.6  to  100.9%)  than  peas  cooked 
with  water  (72.1  to  78.2%)  using  domestic  and  institutional  microwave 
ovens,  respectively.  Conventionally  cooked  peas  had  a  79.7%  ascorbic 
acid  retention. 

If  there  is  any  predominant  quality  factor  at  issue  in 
precooked  foods,  it  is  the  freshness  of  flavor  (Copson,  1975).  It  is  pro- 
bably more  difficult  to  maintain  flavor  in  meat  than  in  vegetables. 
Copson  (1975)  made  the  following  suggestions  when  preparing  meats  for  a 
microwave  meal : 

(1)  Select  meat  (slices  of  roast,  ham  or  turkey)  which  is  im- 
proved by  the  process  of  preparation,  freezing  and  reheating. 

(2)  Use  sauces  or  seasonings  which  lend  a  stable  appeal. 

(3)  Adjust  the  amount  of  precooking  into  balance  with  the  final 
heating. 


38 


(4)  Inhibit  flavor  deterioration  (particularly  in  the  fatty 
substance  during  frozen  storage)  by  using  suitable  antioxidants 
or  use  products  within  a  few  weeks. 

The  effects  of  cooking  method,  and  reheating  method  on  physi- 
cal, chemical  and  palatability  factors  of  restructured  pork  patties 
were  studied  by  Campbell  and  Mandigo  (1978).  Per  cent  area  and 
thickness  were  not  affected  by  reheating  method.  Infrared  ovens 
resulted  in  higher  cooking  losses  (p  <  0.01)  than  microwave  and  convec- 
tion oven  reheating.  Microwave  oven  reheating  resulted  in  greater 
cooking  losses  (p  <  0.05)  than  convection  oven  reheating,  which  was 
probably  related  to  surface  dehydration.  Panel  members  found  microwave 
reheated  patties  significantly  less  juicy  (p  <  0.01)  as  compared  to 
convection  oven  reheating,  however,  color,  visual  texture,  flavor  and 
eating  texture  were  not  affected. 

After  heating  frozen  bread-soy  patties,  raw  or  char-broiled 
frozen  fried  breaded  chicken  parts  in  a  hot  air  convection  oven  and 
holding  0.5,  1.5  or  3  hours;  infrared,  pressure  steam,  or  microwave 
oven  followed  by  30  minute  hot  holding,  Ang  et  al .  (1978)  determined 
riboflavin  and  thiamin  retentions.  Thiamin  retention  was  lowest  in 
chicken  parts  reheated  by  convection  oven  and  held  3  hours  (74%) . 
Infrared  heating  resulted  in  81-84%  thiamin  retention  in  beef  and 
chicken,  and  80%  riboflavin  retention  in  beef.  Other  heating  methods 
yielded  87-93%  riboflavin  in  chicken  and  86-96%  thiamin  retention  in 
both  chicken  and  fish. 

In  another  study,  Dahl  and  Matthews  (1980)  found  thiamin  loss 
of  beef  loaf  to  vary  from  5-10%  after  heating  in  a  microwave  oven. 


39 


Bowers  and  Fryer  (1972)  compared  the  thiamin  and  riboflavin  retention 
in  cooked,  cooked-reheated,  and  cooked-frozen-reheated  turkey  muscles 
using  gas  and  microwave  ovens.  No  significant  differences  were  found 
(moisture,  fat-free  basis)  in  thiamin  retention.  However,  riboflavin 
content  was  higher  in  turkey  muscle  heated  by  gas  ovens  when  compared 
to  muscle  heated  in  microwave  ovens.  In  a  later  study,  Engler  and 
Bowers  (1975)  found  turkey  breasts  suffered  a  greater  (p  <  0.05)  vola- 
tile loss,  but  less  (p  <  0.05)  drip  loss  when  reheated  in  a  microwave 
oven  compared  to  those  reheated  in  an  electric  oven.  No  significant 
differences  were  observed  among  treatments  when  vitamin  Bg  was  calcu- 
lated on  a  cooked  weight  basis. 

No  significant  differences  in  ascorbic  acid  and  thiamin  reten- 
tion were  found  by  Kylen  et  al .  (1961;  1964)  when  fresh  and  frozen 
vegetables  and  meat  were  cooked  in  microwave  or  conventional  ovens. 
However,  thiamin  retention  in  pork  roasts  was  significantly  greater 
after  microwave  cooking  (Kylen  et  al.,  1964). 

Combination  foods,  such  as  in  frozen  dinners,  present  addi- 
tional problems  in  reheating  because  of  the  variations  in  size,  shape 
and  density  of  the  different  food  components.  Copson  (1962)  stated 
that  hot  ovens  may  overheat  foods  where  contact  is  made  with  the  hot 
aluminum  plate,  resulting  in  drying  or  even  crusting  of  the  food. 
Also,  a  relatively  long  period  in  the  hot  oven  may  cause  flavors  to 
mingle  so  the  distinct  qualities  of  each  component  are  impaired.  This 
is  avoided  in  the  microwave  oven  because  the  cooking  time  is  generally 
very  short.  However,  multiple  dinners  could  be  cooked  simultaneously 


40 


in  conventional  ovens,  while  only  individual  or  small  units  could  be 
heated  in  a  microwave  oven. 

Kahn  and  Livingston  (1970)  studied  the  retention  of  thiamin  in 
beef  stew,  shrimp  newburg,  chicken  a  la  king  and  peas  in  cream  sauce 
after  freezing  and  reheating  to  194°F  (90°C)  using  either  a  microwave 
oven,  infrared  heating  or  boiling  water  immersion.  Average  thiamin 
retentions  for  the  four  products  (based  on  100*  for  freshly  prepared 
foods)  were  93.5%,  90%,  and  86%  for  microwave  oven,  infrared  and  immer- 
sion reheating,  respectively. 

Ang  et  al.  (1975)  evaluated  the  nutritional  quality  of  several 
frozen  prepared  food  products  after  reheating  in  a  high  pressure 
steamer,  or  convection,  infrared  or  microwave  oven.  Microwave  oven 
heating  tended  to  retain  higher  amounts  of  heat-labile  nutrients  than 
other  heating  methods.  However,  frequent  stirring  and  resting  periods 
to  avoid  scorching,  in  heating  bulk  foods,  was  detrimental  to  ascorbic 
acid  retention.  Infrared  heating,  which  required  longer  reheating 
times,  but  fewer  disruptions,  resulted  in  similar  nutrient  retentions 
as  microwave  reheating.  Convection  oven  reheating  required  the  longest 
heating  times  for  bulk  frozen  foods.  Thiamin  retention  was  lower  in 
mashed  potatoes  and  carrots  when  the  convection  oven  was  compared  to 
infrared  and  microwave  ovens  for  reheating.  However,  fish  portions  (2 
pounds  per  pan)  reheated  in  a  convection  oven  required  less  time  and 
had  a  higher  thiamin  content  than  when  reheated  in  a  microwave  or 
infrared  oven.  High  pressure  steam  reheating  in  all  instances  resulted 
in  substantially  lower  levels  of  thiamin  and  riboflavin  than  other 


41 


methods. 

Nicholanco  and  Matthews  (1978)  evaluated  beef  stew  in  a  hospi- 
tal cook/chill  foodservice  system.  Thiamin  was  reduced  from  0.11 
mg/100  g  in  raw  ingredients  to  0.03  mg/100  g  in  stew  after  cooking  and 
chilled  storage  for  27  hours.  No  further  loss  of  thiamin  was  observed 
when  stew  was  reheated  to  145°F  in  a  microwave  oven. 

Foodservice  Industry 

The  foodservice  industry  prepares  approximately  forty  per  cent 
of  the  food  consumed  away  from  the  home  (Van  Dress,  1979).  The 
increases  in  the  cost  and  the  decreased  number  in  the  labor  force  have 
caused  centralization  of  food  preparation  to  increase  greatly  in  popu- 
larity. Foodservice  operations  generally  procur  large  quantities  of 
meat,  fish  and  poultry  and  chill  or  freeze  until  needed.  Vegetables 
are  either  purchased  fresh,  canned  or  frozen  (Livingston  et  aj_. ,  1973). 
Of  the  more  than  20  million  dollars  spent  in  1978  on  frozen  foods,  over 
10  million  dollars  was  spent  by  institutions  (Anonymous,  1979). 

In  the  early  1970 ' s  hospitals  began  implementing  the  cook/chill 
foodservice  concept  (Kaud,  1972).  This  process  involves  chilling  hot 
foods  immediately  after  preparation,  then  holding  in  refrigerators  for 
at  least  24  hours  prior  to  serving.  The  chilled  food  is  then  propor- 
tioned, placed  in  refrigerated  food  carts;  transported  to  patient  areas 
where  microwave  ovens  are  used  to  heat  the  food  to  desired  temperatures. 

Freezing  prepared  foods  has  become  more  popular  than  the  cook/ 
chill  method  throughout  the  foodservice  industry.  Advantages  of 


42 


freezing  on-premise  food  production  include  (Ley,  1980;  Tressler  et 
at.,  1968): 

(1)  Individuality  may  be  maintained  by  using  original  recipes. 

(2)  Reheating  food  at  time  of  service  increases  nutritional 
retention  (as  opposed  to  hot-holding). 

(3)  Sensory  attributes,  such  as  color,  flavor,  and  texture,  are 
better  retained  when  compared  to  other  forms  of  food  preserva- 
tion. 

(4)  Skilled  labor,  which  is  expensive,  is  reduced,  because  re- 
heating can  be  done  by  less  experienced  personnel. 

(5)  Peak  activity  periods  are  reduced,  resulting  in  a  more 
relaxed  working  atmosphere. 

(6)  Seasonal  foods  can  be  purchased,  prepared,  frozen  and 
served  at  a  later  date,  thus  reducing  cost  and  increasing  menu 
variety. 

(7)  Overproduction  is  virtually  eliminated,  because  only  the 
amount  ordered  is  removed  from  storage. 

(8)  Food  production  now  allows  more  flexibility  in  arranging 
work  schedules. 

Although  some  of  the  above  advantages  are  true  of  both  cook/chill  and 

cook/freeze  systems,  freezing  increases  the  magnitude  of  each 

advantage. 


Pasta  Products 

Pasta  products  are  economical  and  well-liked  by  consumers. 
Pasta  sales  tend  to  increase  during  economically  tight  periods  (Katz, 
1982).  These  products  are  also  easy  to  prepare  and  require  little  pre- 
paration time.  Therefore,  the  use  of  pasta  has  been  escalating  in  the 
foodservice  industry.  Approximately  two  billion  pounds  of  pasta  was 


43 


manufactured  in  1981  (Katz,  1982).  Approximately  three-fourths  of  the 
production  was  sold  directly  to  consumers,  however,  many  manufacturers 
and  restaurants  are  making  their  own  pasta.  A  variety  of  pasta  pro- 
ducts can  be  found  in  frozen  food  cases  in  supermarkets,  which  reflects 
the  trend  in  marketing  frozen  convenience  foods. 

Standardized  pasta  products  must  contain  semolina,  durum  wheat 
flour,  farina,  flour  or  a  combination  of  these  ingredients  (Douglass 
and  Matthews,  1982).  Rheological  properties  and  color  are  superior 
when  semolina  and  durum  flours  are  used,  therefore,  these  are  generally 
the  predominant  ingredients. 

Enriched  pastas,  according  to  federal  standards  of  identity 
must  contain  13-16.5  mg  of  iron,  4-5  mg  of  thiamin,  1.7-2.2  mg  of 
riboflavin  and  27-34  mg  of  niacin  per  pound.  Calcium  (500-625  mg/lb) 
and  vitamin  D  (250-1,000  U.S. P.  units/lb)  enrichment  is  optional  and 
not  common. 

Many  researchers  have  tried  to  develop  high-protein  pasta  pro- 
ducts. In  1972  a  new  standard  of  identify  for  fortified  macaroni  was 
announced  by  the  Food  and  Drug  Administration  (Banasik  and  Dick,  1982). 
Wheat  must  be  the  main  ingredient  in  enriched,  protein-fortified 
macaroni  products  and  the  protein  source  may  be  from  any  edible  source. 
Fortified  macaroni  must  contain  20%  protein  and  have  a  protein  effi- 
ciency ratio  value  equal  to  95%  casein,  as  well  as  be  enriched  with 
vitamins  and  minerals.  All  noodles  must  contain  at  least  5.5%  egg  or 
egg  yolk  solids,  and  vegetable  pastas  must  contain  at  least  3%  vege- 
table solids. 


44 


The  USDA  and  American  Institute  of  Baking  began  studies  in  the 
late  1960 ' s  to  determine  the  nutrient  content  of  wheat  and  wheat  pro- 
ducts. Nutrient  composition  of  macaroni,  as  compared  to  wheat,  is 
listed  in  Table  2  (Toepfer  et  al.,  1972). 

Table  2.  Nutrient  concentration  in  macaroni  (durum  wheat  yield  is  100%). 


Nutrient  %   Yield 


Thiamin  48 

Riboflavin  86 

Niacin  40 

Vitamin  Bg  25 

Linoleic  42 

Reducing  sugar  371 

Nonreducing  sugar  63 

Starch  116 

Iron  41 

Phosphorus  46 

Calcium  59 

Amino  Acid  (average)  95 


A  study  to  investigate  the  changes  affecting  the  carbohydrate 
fraction  of  durum  wheat  following  pasta  processing  was  undertaken  by 
Lintas  and  D'Appolanio  (1973).  Their  findings  include: 

(1)  Semolina  starch  had  a  higher  peak  viscosity  than  starch 
isolated  form  spaghetti.  The  decrease  in  peak  viscosity  as  a 
result  of  processing  indicated  that  starch  damage  occurred  to 
some  extent  during  processing. 

(2)  Water-binding  capacity  was  obtained  from  the  starches 
isolated  from  the  spaghetti.  The  starch  damage  values  revealed 
that  during  pasta  processing,  the  percentage  of  damaged  starch 
was  increased  greatly. 

(3)  Change  in  free  sugar  content: 

(a)  Maltose  increased  moderately  after  mixing  (dough), 
greatly  increased  after  extruding  (wet  spaghetti ), "and 
showed  no  change  after  drying. 

(b)  The  change  in  glucose  took  place  mainly  during  drying. 


45 


(4)  The  yield  of  water-soluble  pentosans  was  much  higher  in 
spaghetti  than  from  semolina.  The  opposite  was  true  of  the 
water-insoluble  pentosans. 

Little  literature  is  available  on  preserved  pasta  products, 
however,  Douglas  and  Matthews  (1982)  reported  data  on  canned  pasta  mix- 
tures. Canned  pasta  mixtures  are  higher  in  fat  and  ash,  and  lower  in 
protein  and  carbohydrate  contents  than  plain  cooked  macaroni.  Nutrient 
content  of  canned  pasta  is  product  dependent.  As  expected,  spaghetti 
with  tomato  sauce  is  generally  lower  in  vitamin  and  mineral  content 
when  compared  to  macaroni  and  cheese,  beef  ravioli  and  lasagna.  Two 
exceptions  were  copper  and  ascorbic  acid  contents.   Iron,  thiamin, 
riboflavin  and  niacin  contents  were  similar  in  all  products  because  of 
the  enrichment  specifications.  Thiamin  (per  100  g  sample)  for  example 
yielded  0.17  mg  in  enriched  macaroni  cooked  to  the  tender  stage,  0.06 
mg  in  spaghetti  with  tomato  sauce,  0.09  in  macaroni  and  cheese,  0.05  mg 
in  beef  ravioli,  and  0.05  mg  in  lasagna. 

The  pasta  image  is  one  of  high  calorie  and  low  nutrition  (Katz, 
1982).  In  reality,  a  cup  of  cooked  spaghetti  with  tomato  sauce  yields 
179  calories;  meatballs  add  about  120  calories.  Spaghetti  and  meat- 
balls also  contain  14  g  of  protein  and  44  g  of  complex  carbohydrates 
and  many  vitamins  and  minerals  in  a  one-cup  serving.  One  cup  of  plain 
yogurt  made  from  whole  milk  yields  151  calories  (fruit  adds  about  130 
calories)  with  approximately  the  same  amount  of  protein. 

Instrumental  and  Sensory  Texture  measurements  of  Pasta  Products 

Texture  influences  the  acceptability  of  products.  Larmond  and 


46 


Voisey  (1973)  investigated  quality  attributes  of  eight  varieties  of 
spaghetti.  A  taste  panel  rated  spaghetti  for  firmness,  chewiness,  gum- 
miness,  adhesiveness,  starchiness  and  flavor.  The  results  were  com- 
pared with  acceptance  tests  by  a  consumer  panel.  Researchers  concluded 
that  flavor  contributes  little  in  predicting  consumer  reaction, 
whereas,  firmness  and  gumminess  as  rated  by  the  laboratory  panel  were 
sufficient  to  predict  consumer  acceptance. 

Maintaining  product  texture  is  important  to  the  foodservice 
industry,  and  a  great  deal  of  research  has  been  done  concerning  this 
quality  attribute.  Starch  is  the  major  component  of  semolina,  and 
firmness  in  cooked  spaghetti  is  influenced  by  gelatinized  starch  pro- 
perties as  stated  previously.  Dexter  and  Matsuo  (1979)  investigated 
the  effect  on  spaghetti  cooking  quality  of  some  starches  form  various 
cereals.  Differences  appeared  to  be  mainly  attributable  to  variations 
in  starch  water  absorption.  Waxy  maize  and  waxy  barley  starches  were 
detrimental  to  spaghetti  cooking  quality,  but  high  amylose  corn  starch 
appeared  to  impart  a  slight  improvement  in  cooked  spaghetti  firmness. 

Instrumental  measurements  are  important  because  they  are  more 
reproducible  than  human  measurements.  However,  a  correlation  between 
sensory  and  instrumental  measurements  must  be  made  in  order  for 
instrumental  measurements  to  be  meaningful.  The  Instron  Universal 
Testing  Machine  (1UTM)  is  recognized  as  a  sensitive  device  for 
measuring  texture  quality  (Lee  et  al.,  1978). 

The  Ottawa  Texture  Measuring  System  developed  by  Voisey  can  be 
adapted  to  the  IUTM  for  evaluating  products  of  undefined  shape  (Perry 


47 


and  Carroad,  1980).  Small  curd  cottage  cheese  was  evaluated  by  Perry 
and  Carroad  (1980).  The  firmness  parameter  was  measured  by  determining 
peak  heights  in  Newtons,  or  the  force  required  to  extrude  the  curd 
through  the  test  cell.  Cohesiveness  was  evaluated  by  the  force  which 
could  be  applied  to  the  curd  before  it  ruptured.  Peak  heights  also 
were  measured  to  determine  the  energy  required  to  compress,  shear  and 
extrude  curd  through  the  test  cell.  Results  showed  a  correlation  bet- 
ween instrumental  and  sensory  measurements  for  texture.  Voisey  and 
Larmond's  (1973)  use  of  the  Ottawa  System  with  the  plate  extrusion  cell 
indicated  that  instrumental  measurements  were  more  sensitive  to  tex- 
tural  differences  in  firmness  than  sensory  measurements. 

A  high  positive  correlation  (r  =  0.812)  between  taste  panel 
scores  and  shear  test  cells  using  the  Ottawa  system  when  measuring 
spaghetti  firmness  was  evaluated  by  Walsh  and  Gilles  (1971).  Matsuo 
and  Irvine  (1974)  found  differences  related  to  spaghetti  quality  could 
be  measured.  Firmness  was  judged  organoleptical ly  as  the  force 
required  to  penetrate  the  product  with  the  molar  teeth.  Chewiness  was 
rated  organoleptically  in  terms  of  seconds  required  to  masticate  a 
sample  at  a  rate  of  one  chew  per  second  until  a  satisfactory  con- 
sistency for  swallowing  was  reached.  The  multiblade  shear  tests  on  the 
IUTM  were  used  to  determine  textural  characteristics  instrumental ly. 
Results  showed  high  correlations  between  firmness  and  chewiness  and 
between  shear  force  and  shear  stress. 


48 


MATERIALS  AND  METHODS 

Treatments 

Frozen  spaghetti  with  meat  sauce,  subjected  to  one,  three  or  five 
evenly  spaced  or  five  immediate  freeze-thaw  cycles  were  compared  with  the 
fresh  product.  Two  methods  of  reheating  the  products  after  frozen 
storage  also  were  compared.  A  randomized  complete  block  design  with  two 
reheating  methods  and  five  freeze-thaw  treatments  was  used;  sensory  stu- 
dies were  replicated  six  times  and  instrumental  data  were  replicated 
three  times. 

Sample  Preparation.  The  North  Central-120  regional  project  of 
which  this  project  was  a  part,  provided  a  spaghetti  with  meat  sauce  for- 
mula which  was  modified  and  used  in  preparing  spaghetti  samples. 
Ingredients  and  specifications  are  listed  in  the  Appendix,  Table  A-l. 
Ingredients  in  sufficient  quantities  for  the  entire  study  were  procured 
at  the  beginning  of  the  study.  Locally  purchased  ground  beef  was  frozen 
until  needed.  Preliminary  work  showed  that  cooking  spaghetti  until  the 
"thread"  at  the  core  of  the  strand  disappeared  produced  a  mushy  product 
after  preparation  and  reheating.  Therefore,  cooking  was  terminated  after 
15  minutes. 

Fresh  samples  were  tested  immediately  after  preparation. 
Remaining  product  was  divided  into  approximately  750  g  portions  before 
freezing  in  covered,  moisture-proof,  plastic  containers.  Temperature  was 
maintained  at  -29°  +  4°C  throughout  the  39  day  storage  period.  Each 
sample  was  frozen  and  thawed  one,  three  or  five  times  evenly  spaced 
according  to  the  schedule  in  Table  3. 


49 


Table  3.  Freezing  and  thawing  schedule. 


No.  Freeze-Thaws        Freeze-Thaw  Days3 


1 

3  9,  21 

5  5,  12,  19,  27 

5  Immediate  2,  3,  4,  5 


aThawed  for  8  hours  at  room  temperature  and 
returned  to  freezer. 

The  five  freeze-thaw  cycles  immediately  (hereafter  designated  5-1)  were 

included  in  this  study  to  determine  if  the  time  of  freezing  and  thawing 

during  frozen  storage  affected  the  quality  attributes  of  this  product. 

Large  ice  crystals  remained  in  the  interior  of  the  product 
after  thawing  at  room  temperature  (approximately  21°C)  for  eight  hours. 
On  day  39,  each  sample  was  removed  from  the  freezer  12  hours  before 
reheating  in  microwave  ovens  because  ice  reflects  and  transmits 
microwaves  resulting  in  uneven,  incomplete  heating  (Glew,  1973). 

Spaghetti  samples  were  reheated  to  an  internal  temperature  of 
74°C  +  2°  in  a  1  1/2  quart,  covered  glass  casserole  using  a  conven- 
tional electric  (Whirpool,  Model  REF950P)  or  Sharp  Carousel  microwave 
oven  (Model  R-8200).  Samples  designated  to  be  reheated  in  a  conven- 
tional oven  were  reheated  approximately  30  minutes  to  165°F  internal 
temperature  at  350°F  (176°C).  The  roast  setting  on  the  microwave  oven 
was  used  to  reheat  the  remaining  samples  for  nine  minutes,  turning  the 
samples  180  degrees  after  five  minutes.  Following  reheating,  all 
samples  were  kept  warm  in  a  Blick-Built  Selective-Menu  food  conveyor, 


50 


(Model  no.  ALS-44324)  for  approximately  five  minutes  until  sensory 
evaluation. 

Instrumental  Evaluation  of  Spaghetti  with  Meat  Sauce 

Texture.  Spaghetti  firmness  was  evaluated  using  the  Instron 
Universal  Testing  Machine  (Model  1122).  A  back  extrusion  cell  was 
used  with  a  500  kg  load  cell  to  compress  100  g  of  samples  of  spaghetti 
after  manually  removing  all  meat  particles.  Crosshead  and  chart  speeds 
of  20  mm/min  and  50  mm/min,  respectively,  were  used.  Previous  studies 
(Christensen,  1981)  concluded  that  evaluating  time  and  temperature 
influenced  results.  Therefore,  all  samples  were  covered,  held  at 
approximately  22°C  and  evaluated  two  hours  after  reheating.  Peak 
heights  represented  the  amount  of  force  (kg)  required  to  compress  the 
spaghetti . 

Color.  Spaghetti  and  meat  sauce  color  was  evaluated  using  the 
HunterLab  spectrophotometer,  Model  D54-P.  The  Waring  blendor  was  used 
to  prepare  a  slurry  from  100  g  of  spaghetti  and  10  ml  of  water  for  90 
seconds  on  the  blend  setting.  Six  centimeter  diameter,  optically  clear 
cups  were  filled  to  a  depth  of  approximately  1.5  cm.  Using  Illuminant 
C,  four  readings  per  sample  were  taken  and  mean  L,  a,  b  and  CIE  L,  a,  b 
values  were  reported.   Instrumental  values  were  used  to  calculate  hue 
angle  (tan"1  b/a)  and  saturation  index  (a2  +  b2)i  (Little,  1976), 
representing  hue  (color)  and  intensity,  respectively. 

Analysis  of  Data 

Instrumental  and  chemical  data  for  five  treatments  and  two 


51 


reheating  methods  were  analyzed  by  ANOV  as  follows: 

Source  of  Variance    D/F 

Replication  2 

Method  1 

Replication  x  Method  2 

Treatment  4 

Method  x  Treatment  4 

Error  Jjj 

Total  29 

When  differences  were  indicated,  least  significant  differences 

(p  <  0.05)  were  determined. 

Sensory  Evaluation  of  Spaghetti  with  Meat  Sauce 

To  ensure  food  safety  of  the  product,  microbiological  tests 

were  made  prior  to  the  sensory  evaluations.  These  tests  revealed  very 

low  bacterial  counts,  approximately  15  viable  counts  per  gram 

(Appendix,  Table  A-4). 

Panel  Selection.  Faculty  and  graduate  students  from  the  Foods 

and  Nutrition  Department  who  were  experienced  in  sensory  methodology 
comprised  the  eight  member  panel  to  evaluate  the  spaghetti  with  meat 

sauce  for  appearance,  mouthfeel,  texture  and  flavor. 

Panel  Training.  Four  training  sessions  were  held  before  the 
study  commenced  to  familiarize  the  panelists  with  the  product  and  sen- 
sory evaluation  procedures  of  this  study.  The  scorecard  was  introduced 
and  terminology  discussed.  During  these  sessions  the  scorecard  deve- 
loped by  NC-120  project  members  was  revised  in  order  to  better  evaluate 
the  characteristics  of  interest  in  this  particular  study.  Examples  of 
product  extremes  similar  to  those  which  would  be  evaluated  during  the 


52 


study  were  presented  to  panelists  during  training.  Aroma  bottles  were 
available  to  panel  members  to  aid  in  the  recognition  of  spices  used  in 
the  spaghetti  and  meat  sauce.  Several  procedures  were  modified  as  a 
result  of  those  training  sessions  to  better  ensure  repeatability  among 
panel  members  and  reproducibility  of  results.  The  length  of  time 
required  for  frozen  storage  made  it  necessary  to  hold  two  retraining 
sessions  prior  to  evaluation  of  reheated  samples.  At  this  time  the 
panel  members  were  again  presented  with  product  extremes. 

Scorecard.  A  15  cm  standard  unstructured  descriptive  rating 
scale  with  anchors  and  descriptive  terms  1  cm  from  each  end  was  adopted 
by  the  NC-120  Committee.  Those  scales  were  used  for  the  charac- 
teristics important  to  this  study.  The  scales  for  the  characteristics 
evaluated  are  shown  in  the  Appendix  (Figure  A-l). 

Panel  Evaluation  Sessions.  Four  samples  coded  with  random 
three-digit  numbers,  were  evaluated  at  each  of  the  two  sessions  per  day 
with  a  fifteen  minute  break  after  each  two  samples.  Order  of  presen- 
tation of  each  pair  of  samples  was  randomized  among  panelists. 
Spaghetti  remained  in  the  casserole  while  panelists  evaluated  moistness 
under  the  MacBeth  skylight.  Each  panelist  evaluated  remaining  charac- 
teristics from  individual,  approximately  50  g  samples  in  heated  glass 
custard  cups.  Preliminary  studies  indicated  greasiness  was  influenced 
by  temperature,  therefore,  thermometers  were  provided  and  panelists 
were  requested  to  evaluate  this  characteristic  at  49°C.  Deionized, 
distilled  water  and  unsalted  crackers  were  provided  for  use  between 
samples.  After  evaluations  were  completed,  numerical  values  were 


53 


assigned  to  each  panelist's  assessments  for  statistical  analysis. 

Nutrient  Measurements  of  Spaghetti  and  Meat  Sauce 

Thiamin.  After  blending  100  g  of  spaghetti  for  one  minute  in 
a  Waring  blender  with  100  g  0.1N  hydrochloric  acid,  the  thiochrome 
method  (AOAC  43.024,  1980)  was  followed  to  determine  thiamin  content 
(wet  weight  basis)  of  spaghetti  with  meat  sauce. 

Analysis  of  Data 

Data  for  the  six  replications  of  the  sensory  data  were  analyzed 

by  analysis  of  variance  (AN0V)  as  follows: 

Source  of  Variance    D/F 

Replication  5 

Method  1 

Replication  x  Method  5 

Treatment  4 

Method  x  Treatment  4 

Error  36 

Total  55 


54 


RESULTS  AND  DISCUSSION 

Significant  differences  were  found  by  ANOV  (Tables  4  and  5)  among 
the  five  freeze-thaw  treatments  for  moistness,  strand  separation,  mouth- 
feel,  sensory  texture,  spice  intensity,  (p  <  0.001);  off -flavor  (p  <  0.01) 
and  thiamin  content  (p  <  0.05).  Reheating  method  resulted  in  significant 
differences  in  sensory  texture  (p  <  0.01),  HunterLab  b  values  (p  <  0.05), 
the  1976  CIE  b  values,  and  saturation  index  using  the  CIE  1975  values 
(p  <  0.01).  An  interaction  between  reheating  method  and  freeze-thaw 
treatments  was  found  for  moistness  and  thiamin  content. 

Effects  of  Treatments  on  Appearance  Factors 

Strand  Separation.  The  only  sensory  factor  related  to  appearance 
affected  by  the  freezing  and  thawing  treatments  was  strand  separation. 
All  samples  which  were  frozen  had  more  clumping  (p  <  0.05)  than  the 
freshly  prepared  spaghetti.  Strand  separation,  or  the  absence  of 
clumping  of  strands,  is  an  important  characteristic  related  to  product 
acceptance  by  consumers.  When  starch  freezes,  water  is  crystallized, 
resulting  in  increased  pressure  within  the  cell  causing  the  cells  to  rup- 
ture. This  breakdown  in  the  starch  molecules  is  partially  responsible  for 
strand  clumping  in  frozen  samples.  Significant  differences  were  found 
for  strand  separation  between  fresh  and  all  samples  which  had  been  frozen 
and  thawed  (p  <  0.05),  as  expected.  Once  the  product  was  frozen,  indivi- 
dual strands  were  less  apparent  when  compared  to  the  fresh  product. 
Previous  work  done  by  Glew  (1973)  found  repeated  freeze-thaws  exaggerated 
the  rupturing  of  cells,  however,  no  differences  were  noted  among  the 


)  .-H         vo  ^J- 


55 


§ 

s- 


o  o 


r-.  lt) 

'-i  *T 
in  cti 

cn  cn 

r- «    UD 

(xi  ro 

o  r-. 

r-.  kd 

ro  cm 

t-H    O 

cn  lo 

<-t  CD 

IT)  1X> 

CO   LO 

C\J  CM 

tjD  to 

CM   Cn 

O  m 

CO  cn 

O   O  ^H 


«tf-  CO 
■X)  CM 

o  o 

CM   t— 1 

•^    CNJ 

CO  CO 

CTi  UD 
CO  U3 

Lf>  CM 

LT)   CNJ 

CNJ   ,-H 

ro  ,-h 

«— 1  CNJ 

»  "d  — ^  c 


cnj  ro 

.— i  cn 

U3   CNJ 
O  O 

■a-  o 

ro  cnj 

CNJ  *g- 

CNJ   KO 

§ 

ro  o 

o  o 

ro  -=3- 

CO  ur> 
cnj  cn 

CNJ  CM 

O 

ID 

rt 

un 

-d- 

^r 

vo 

ro 

+j 

Q. 

(/I 

L. 

c 

■*■ 

<*- 

0) 

u 

</> 

IO 

at 

j-> 

</> 

at 

o 

3 

-t-> 

fO 

■a 

at 

i/i 

Li- 

ID 

ra 

JD 

LT>    CD  r-H    O 


56 


CD  i— 
3    CJ) 

dt  c 
< 


CD  in 
O  CM 

o  <x> 
o  ^-« 

o  ir> 
o  ro 

o  <x> 

o  *d- 

O  «3 

o  o 

o  o 

o  o 

o  o 

o  o 

O   .-H 

vl 


CO  CM 

<■  O 

i-t  O 

r-  cm 

CO      • 

IT)        . 

o  o 

co  ro 

•  «*■ 

•  ro 

«3-  KO 

ro  co 

o  o 

CO  o 

CM  KO 

UD 

*— * 

« — 

•—*  i— <  CD  CD  i-h 


v| 


CO  l£> 

cm  ro 

r-l   O 

«3  O 

P-.  CM 

.-h  ro 

r-»  cm 

cm  p-. 

o  o 

*-t  o 

i-H   O 

1 — ' 

w 

w 

t-t  # 

O  CM 

cd  u"> 

CD  f-t 

CD  ro 
o  en 

r-4  P-. 
O  LD 

o  <x> 
o  o 

O  .-H 

O   r-H 

o  o 

O  iH 

O   .-H 

ro  *■ 
ro  v 

o>  o 

*3"  CM 

o  o 

*d"   CM 
CM   .-H 

«3"  CM 

.— 1 

o 

ro  cm 

o  r^ 

o  o 

o  o 

o  o 

CM 

r-  ro 

r^  o 
O  ro 

ro  ro 
ro  ud 

•-t  *d- 

CT>  *=r 

cn  cr> 

u">  «* 

ro  cm 

.-H  o 

ro  i-* 

*-H  O 

O  CT> 

co  r% 

o  m 

O  CO 

en  «a- 
o  r* 

f-t  ro 

OO  r-H    O 


CM  O  r-H  CD 


.-t  ,-4         r-H  CD  <-H 


>  ~^jCM 
CD  JD  .O 


ro  O 

CD  en 

o  ro 

CD    LT> 

.—1  CO 

o  ** 

o  <* 

CD  ** 

O  «tf 

o  o 

o  o 

O  ro 

O  ro 

aw  i.  vi 

O    O   i- 

C   I*-  <4-  <t- 


qj  a)  +j 

t/>   -M    4-> 

QJ     ITJ     IT3    O 


*0    <TJ    (/> 

U.   UUP 

IBJ2     UH 


57 


four  frozen-thawed  treatments  in  this  study  (Table  6  and  Figure  A-2). 

Fat  Separation.  Subjecting  spaghetti  with  meat  sauce  to 
several  freeze-thaw  cycles  had  no  significant  effect  on  fat  separation 
when  compared  to  the  fresh  product  (Table  6  and  Figure  A-2).  The  product 
which  was  frozen  and  thawed  once  had  the  highest  level  of  fat  separation 
with  a  gradual  decrease  in  amount  of  fat  separation  noted  as  the  number 
of  freeze-thaw  cycles  increased.  However,  none  of  those  differences  were 
significant.  Some  fat  separation  might  have  been  expected  after  freezing 
since  cell  destruction  occurs  during  freezing  and  allows  fat  to  escape 
the  cell. 

HunterLab  Color  Values.  Color  data  for  spaghetti  with  meat  sauce 
are  presented  in  Tables  5,  6,  7  and  Figures  A-3,  A-4  and  A-5. 
Anthocyanins,  xanthins,  and  carotenoids  are  stable  pigments  and  no  signi- 
ficant differences  for  any  of  the  measurements,  among  fresh  and  frozen 
samples  resulted,  as  expected.  The  calculated  hue  angles  and  saturation 
indexes  did  not  vary  significantly  among  sample  treatments.  However, 
fresh  samples  had  higher  saturation  index  values  than  frozen  samples 
indicating  a  slightly  duller  product,  but  not  significantly  so,  after 
freezing.  Dehydration  which  occurs  during  freezing  may  have  contributed 
to  this  difference.  The  method  of  reheating  had  a  significant  dif- 
ference, p  <  0.05,  and  p  <  0.01  on  the  b  and  b*  values,  respectively, 
indicating  more  yellowness  in  the  product  reheated  in  a  microwave  oven 
than  in  the  conventional  oven  (Table  7  and  Figure  A-5).  Also,  conven- 
tional reheating  yields  a  duller  product  than  one  which  is  reheated  in  a 
microwave  oven;  this  is  apparent  from  the  higher  saturation  index  values. 


58 


Table  6.  Least  square  means  for  appearance  factors  for  varying  freeze 
thaw  cycles. 


Freeze-Thaw  Cycles3 
Characteristic     Fresh    13       5     BT     LSDg  05 


Sensoryb 
Fat  separationc    7.78    8.72    7.65    7.49    7.25      NS 

Strand  separation^  9.18a   4.97b   5.59b   4.08b   4.78b  1.046e  0.89f 

Color9 


L 

47.92 

48.77 

49.45 

48.73 

49.23 

NS 

a 

11.13 

10.38 

10.40 

10.18 

9.13 

NS 

b 

17.22 

16.80 

16.95 

16.85 

16.68 

NS 

Hue  Angle 
(tan-lb/a) 

1.00 

1.02 

1.02 

1.03 

1.08 

NS 

Saturation 
L(a+b)i] 

Index 

20.51 

19.75 

19.89 

19.69 

19.14 

NS 

L* 

55.02 

55.77 

56.55 

55.83 

56.23 

NS 

a* 

13.02 

12.07 

12.07 

11.95 

11.77 

NS 

b* 

26.80 

25.05 

25.17 

25.15 

24.78 

NS 

Hue  Angle* 

1.11 

1.12 

1.12 

1.13 

1.13 

NS 

Saturation 

Index* 

29.81 

27.81 

27.91 

27.85 

27.44 

NS 

aEvenly  spaced  during  39  day  period  except  51  which  were  all  imme- 
diately after  initial  freezing. 

bSix  replications;means  in  the  row  sharing  a  common  letter  are  not 
significantly  different  (p  <^  0.05). 

Scale:  0,  no  fat  separation;  15,  much  fat  separation. 

Scale:  0,  strands  clump  together;  15,  individual  strands  apparent; 

Fresh  vs  all  frozen  treatments. 

Among  frozen  treatments. 
Measured  with  HunterLab  D-54P  spectrophotometer;  three  replications 
1976  C1E  values  (Little,  1976). 


59 


Table  7.  Least  square  means  for  significantly  different  appearance 
factors  for  spaghetti  and  meat  sauce. 


a   p  <  0.05. 

b   p  <  0.01;  SI  calculated  as  follows:  (a2  +  b2)* 


Reheating  Color 

Method  ba  b*b         SI*b 


Conventional         17.08a        25.73a        28.53a 
Microwave  16.72b        25.05b        27.78b 


60 


This  difference  may  be  attributed  to  a  greater  moisture  loss  in  conven- 
tional as  compared  to  microwave  oven  reheated  spaghetti  and  meat  sauce. 

Effects  of  Treatments  on  Mouthfeel  and  Texture 

Mouthfeel:  Dryness.  A  significant  difference  (p  <  0.05)  in 
moistness  was  found  between  fresh  spaghetti  with  meat  sauce  samples  and 
those  samples  which  were  frozen  (Table  8  and  Figure  A-6).  The  frozen 
ones  were  less  moist  in  every   instance.  The  difference  may  partially 
result  from  overcooking  the  spaghetti  during  reheating.  Undercooking  the 
spaghetti  during  initial  preparation  may  decrease  the  moisture  loss  after 
subjecting  the  spaghetti  with  meat  sauce  to  frozen  storage  and  freezer 
abuse.  In  this  study  we  found  the  differences  between  1  freeze-thaw  and 
3  freeze-thaw  cycles  to  be  significant.  Products  subjected  to  3  freeze- 
thaw  cycles  were  the  driest.  The  differences  were  not  significant  among 
samples  subjected  to  3,  5  or  5-1  freeze-thaw  cycles.  These  results  were 
expected  because  of  the  freezing  phenomena  where  water  expands,  forcing 
it  out  of  the  cell.  However,  once  the  water  leaves  the  molecule  it  can- 
not return,  even  after  thawing.  This  study  substantiates  that  phenomena 
by  showing  a  change  which  occurred  only  due  to  the  freezing  process.  The 
number  of  freeze-thaws  had  little  effect  on  product  dryness. 

Greasiness.  No  significant  difference  was  found  in  product 
greasiness  (Table  8  and  Figure  A-6).  Cellular  destruction  probably 
contributed  to  a  slightly  less  greasy  fresh  product  than  frozen  products. 
A  pattern  was  not  shown  in  the  amount  of  greasiness  found  in  the  product 
as  the  number  of  freeze-thaw  cycles  increased.  Therefore,  the  freezing 


61 


process  itself  appears  to  be  responsible  for  the  slight  but  insignificant 
increases  in  greasiness  detected  by  the  sensory  panelists. 

Sensory  Evaluation  for  Firmness.  Significant  differences  in 
sensory  firmness  were  found.  Firmness  is  a  characteristic  important  in 
consumer  acceptance  for  many  products  including  spaghetti  and  meat 
sauce.  The  results  presented  in  Table  8  and  Figure  A-6  indicate  the 
fresh  product  is  firmer  than  the  frozen  products,  as  expected. 

Table  8.  Least  square  means  for  mouthfeel  and  texture  evaluation  of 

spaghetti  for  effect  of  increasing  (zero  to  five)  freeze-thaw 
cycles3. 


Freeze-Thaw  Cycles3 
Characteristic    Fresh    1      3      5      BT    LSD0  05 


Sensory 

Mouthfeelb  A  B 

Dryness^  4.73a  6.45b  7.56c  6.62bc  6.98bc  1.28  1  09 

Greasiness0  6.66  7.29  7.17  7.26  7.16  NS 

Firmnesse  8.61a  4.44b  3.68c  2.53d  2.95cd  0.88  0.74 

Instron 
Firmness,  kgf     25.36a  22.13b  21.73b  22.66b  21.46b   1.44    NS 


e 


aEvenly  spaced  during  39  day  period  except  51  which  were  all  immediately 
after  initial  freezing. 

Means  in  a  row  sharing  a  common  letter  are  not  siqnif icantl y 

different,  p  <  0.05. 

Scale:  0,  very   wet  and  15,  very   dry. 

Scale:  0,  not  greasy  and  15,  very  greasy. 

Scale:  0,  extremely  soft  and  15,  extremely  firm. 
fBack  extrusion  cell  on  Instron  Universal  Testinq  Machine 
"Fresh  vs  frozen 

Among  frozen  treatments 

Glutenin  and  gliadin  are  wheat  proteins  most  responsible  for 

spaghetti  textural  characteristics.  Water  is  an  intrinsic  part,  of 


62 


protein  structure,  therefore,  water  removal  which  occurred  during 
freezing  undoubtedly  caused  denaturation  of  protein.   Protein  denatura- 
tion  and  starch  retrogradation  probably  caused  structural  changes  in 
cells  leading  to  the  textural  changes  and  resulting  in  a  softer  product 
after  freezing.  Undercooking  spaghetti  prior  to  freezing  would  eliminate 
overcooking  during  reheating,  probably  resulting  in  a  firmer  end  product. 

Fresh  pasta  products  were  two  to  three  times  firmer  than  frozen 
products.  The  product  became  progressively  softer  as  the  number  of 
freeze-thaw  cycles  increased.  With  increasing  number  of  freeze-thaw 
cycles  the  potential  for  further  denaturation  occurs.  Therefore,  as 
expected,  this  study  showed  an  inverse  relationship  between  spaghetti 
firmness  and  number  of  freeze-thaw  cycles.  The  5-1  samples  were  firmer 
than  those  frozen  and  thawed  5  times  spaced  throughout  the  study; 
however,  those  differences  were  not  significant.  These  results  suggest 
that  the  time  of  freezing  and  thawing  during  the  storage  period  has  no 
effect  on  the  firmness  of  the  product. 

Instrumental  Values  for  Firmness.  No  significant  differences 
were  found  among  the  frozen  treatments  according  to  instrumental  texture 
data,  however,  fresh  samples  required  more  force  than  frozen  samples, 
supporting  the  sensory  data  (Table  8  and  Figure  A-7).  The  5-1  samples 
had  the  lowest  Instron  values  and  suggest  a  slightly  less  firm  product 
than  the  other  frozen  samples.  This  was  not  entirely  consistent  with  the 
sensory  evaluation  which  indicated  the  five  evenly  spaced  freeze-thaw 
cycles  resulted  in  the  softest  product.  However,  since  none  of  the  dif- 
ferences were  significant,  the  data  are  in  agreement. 


63 


Table  9.  Least  square  means  for  sensory  flavor  evaluations  for  effect 
of  increasing  the  number  of  freeze-thaw  cycles. 


Freeze-Thaw  Cycles8 
Characteristic     Fresh    1      3       5     51     LSD 


0.05 


Sensory 

Flavor0                                       A  g 

SPlceC    J      7.66a  4.44b   4.11c   4.13bc  4.23b   1.45  1.24 

2.19a  3.33ab  3.77abc  5.09c   4.04bc  1.58  1.35 


Off-flavord 


aEvenly  spaced  during  39  day  period  except  51  which  were  all  imme- 
diately after  initial  freezing 

bMeans  in  a  row  with  same  letter  are  not  significantly  different  (p  < 
0.05). 

cScale:  0,  spice  intensity  weak  and  15,  strong. 
^Scale:  0,  no  off -flavor  and  15,  strong  off -flavor. 
"Fresh  vs  frozen 
B  Among  frozen  treatments 


64 


Flavor 

Flavor:  Intensity  of  Spice.  Spices  are  volatile,  resulting  in 
diminished  spice  intensity.  Therefore,  the  sensory  panel,  as  expected, 
indicated  a  stronger  spice  intensity  in  the  fresh  pasta  product  than  in 
the  frozen  samples.  Those  differences  were  significant  (p  <  0.05)  and 
are  found  in  Table  9  and  Figure  A-8.  Little  difference  was  found  in 
spice  intensity  among  various  frozen  treatments. 

Off -flavor.  Two  major  off -flavors  were  detected  by  panel  mem- 
bers. The  stale  off -flavor  and  a  "cardboard"  off-flavor  detected  by  the 
panel  members  was  probably  caused  by  hydrolytic  rancidity  (Tressler  et 
al.,  1968).  This  type  of  rancidity  results  because  fats  are  cleaved  and 
yield  individual  fatty  acids  which  causes  strong  off -flavors.  When  cells 
are  ruptured,  the  excreted  lipids  are  exposed  to  oxygen  which  could 
result  in  a  pronounced  "cardboard"  off -flavor.  No  significant  differ- 
ences were  noted  for  off -flavor  when  fresh  or  frozen  samples  were  sub- 
jected to  one  or  three  freeze-thaw  cycles  and  evaluated  by  panelists.  As 
the  number  of  freeze-thaw  cycles  increased,  the  off -flavor  became  more 
pronounced.  Results  showed  a  significant  difference  between  the  fresh 
sample  and  those  subjected  to  5  and  5-1  freeze-thaw  cycles  (Table  9  and 
Figure  A-8),  which  one  might  expect  because  accelerated  temperatures 
increase  oxidative  rancidity.  As  stated  earlier,  oxidation  occurs  more 
rapidly  at  -20°C  than  at  ambient  temperature  (Glew  1973).  Pasta  products 
during  this  study  frequently  were  recorded  near  the  most  vulnerable  tem- 
perature. Temperatures  noted  during  the  study  ranged  from  -25°  to  33°C. 
However,  no  significant  differences  in  products  were  noted  between  1,  3 


65 


or  5-1  freeze-thaw  cycles.  The  strongest  off -flavors  were  detected  by 
the  sensory  panelists  in  spaghetti  and  meat  sauce  after  5  freeze-thaw 
cycles  spaced  evenly  throughout  frozen  storage.  These  samples  were 
significantly  different  (p  <  0.05)  from  all  treatments  except  those 
having  experienced  5-1  freeze-thaw  cycles. 

Effects  of  Reheating  Method  with  Freeze-Thaw  Treatments  on  Spaghetti 
and  Heat  Sauce  " 

The  method  used  to  reheat  the  spaghetti  and  meat  sauce  resulted 
in  no  significant  differences  in  the  quality  attributes  evaluated  in 
this  study,  except  for  moistness  and  thiamin  retention. 

Moistness.  A  significant  difference  (p  <  0.05)  was  found  between 
samples  reheated  in  a  conventional  oven  and  those  reheated  in  a  microwave 
oven  (Table  10  and  Figure  A-9).  No  differences  were  found  after  the 
spaghetti  and  meat  sauce  was  frozen  and  thawed  once.  However,  the  pro- 
duct was  more  moist  when  reheated  in  the  microwave  oven  after  three  and 
five  freeze-thaws.  Conventional  oven  reheating  produced  a  moister  pro- 
duct after  5-1  freeze-thaws  cycles. 

Nutrient  Analysis 

Thiamin.  Generally,  thiamin  content  of  this  pasta  product  was 
not  affected  adversely  or  significantly  by  the  various  treatments 
(Table  11)  in  this  study.  However,  spaghetti  which  had  5-1  freeze-thaw 
cycles  contained  less  thiamin  (p  <  0.05)  than  the  fresh  spaghetti  with 
meat  sauce.  Little  difference  was  found  in  thiamin  retention  between 
microwave  and  conventional  oven  reheating  (Table  10  and  Figure  A-10), 
unless  the  product  had  experienced  five  freeze-thaw  cycles,  either  evenly 


66 


spaced  or  immediately.  The  greatest  thiamin  loss  was  found  after  5-1 
freeze-thaw  cycles  when  spaghetti  with  meat  sauce  was  reheated  in  a  con- 
ventional oven. 

When  microwave  ovens  were  used  in  this  study  to  reheat  products 
which  had  been  frozen  and  thawed,  the  thiamin  content  is  equal  or 
superior  to  samples  reheated  in  conventional  ovens.  Samples  reheated  in 
a  microwave  oven  were  subjected  to  heat  for  a  shorter  time  than  samples 
reheated  in  a  conventional  oven,  therefore,  the  thiamin  contents  found  in 
this  study  were  expected. 


67 


Table  10.  Least  square  means  for  reheating8  by  conventional  and 

microwave  ovens  and  freeeze-thaw  treatments'5. c  on  moistness 
and  thiamin  content  (wet  weight  basis)  of  spaghetti  and  meat 
sauce. 


Fresh 

F 

reeze-Thaw 

Cycles3 

Characteristic 

1 

3 

5 

51 

LSD0.05 

Moistnessd 

Conventional  oven 
Microwave  oven 

8.6ax 
8. lax 

5.3by 
5.0by 

3.9cy 
5.16y 

3.0cy 
3.8cy 

5.1by 
4.2bcy 

1.7c 
1.046d 

Thiamin,  mcg/g 
Off-flavord 

0.91a 
0.68ax 

0.68bx 
0.74by 

0.74aby 
0.70a 

0.56bc 
0.68ax 

0.49c 
0.69a 

0.00245c 
0.1893d 

0.029e 

aAll  means  within  a  row  sharing  a  common  letter  are  not  significantly 
different,  p  <  0.05. 

bFor  comparisons  among  freeze-thaw  treatments;  a,  b,  c,  are  used. 
<jFor  comparing  fresh  vs.  freeze-thaw  treatments;  a,  b,  c,  are  used. 
aScale:  0  to  15  ;  0,  low,  15,  high. 


68 


69 


SUMMARY 

Freeze-thaw  stability  of  spaghetti  with  meat  sauce  was  investi- 
gated. The  pasta  product  was  subjected  to  1,  3,  or  5  evenly  spaced  or 
5-immediate  freeze-thaw  cycles  and  reheated  in  a  conventional  or 
microwave  oven.  Products  were  evaluated  for  selected  chemical,  physi- 
cal and  sensory  attributes. 

Based  on  the  conditions  of  this  study,  the  following  conclusions 
can  be  made: 

1.  Appearance.  Strand  separation  decreased  after  spaghetti 
with  meat  sauce  was  frozen.  Freezing  treatment  and/or  reheating  method 
produced  no  significant  differences  in  fat  separation  or  product 
color. 

2.  Mouthfeel.  Freezing  produced  less  moist  and  less  greasy 
samples  compared  to  fresh  pasta.  Spaghetti  with  meat  sauce  was  driest 
after  3  freeze-thaw  cycles.  Reheating  method  also  affected  product 
moistness.  Generally,  pasta  reheated  in  the  microwave  oven  was  more 
moist,  however,  spaghetti  which  had  1  or  5-1  freeze-thaw  cycles 
reheated  in  the  conventional  oven  was  as  moist  as  spaghetti  with  meat 
sauce  with  1  or  3  freeze-thaw  cycles  when  reheated  in  a  microwave  oven. 
No  differences  in  greasiness  were  found  among  frozen  samples. 

3.  Texture.  Sensory  evaluation  indicated  fresh  spaghetti  with 
meat  sauce  was  two  to  three  times  firmer  than  frozen  products. 
Firmness  was  inversely  related  to  the  number  of  freeze-thaw  cycles  to 
which  the  product  was  subjected.   Instrumental  readings  indicated  fresh 
pasta  was  firmer  (p  <  0.05)  than  frozen  pasta;  however,  no  significant 


70 


differences  were  found  among  treatments. 

4.  Flavor.  Spice  intensity  decreased  significantly  after 
spaghetti  with  meat  sauce  was  frozen,  but  no  difference  appeared  among 
the  frozen-thawed  treatments.  Off-flavors  such  as  stale,  rancid  and 
"cardboard"  were  detected  in  samples  exposed  to  freeze-thaw  cycles. 
Off -flavors  generally  increased  as  the  number  of  freeze-thaw  cycles 
increased. 

5.  Thiamin.  Thiamin  loss  was  nominal  unless  the  spaghetti 
with  meat  sauce  experienced  5-1  freeze-thaw  cycles.  Conventional 
reheating  of  the  pasta  product  after  5-1  freeze-thaws  resulted  in 
greater  thiamin  loss  than  microwave  oven  reheating. 


71 


References 


Ang,  C.Y.W.,  Chang,  CM.,  Fey,  A.E.  and  Livingston,  G.E.  1975. 

Effects  of  heating  methods  on  vitamin  retention  in  six  fresh  or 
frozen  prepared  food  products.  J.  Food  Sci.  40:997. 

Ang,  C.Y.W.,  Basillo,  L.A.,  Cato,  B.A.  and  Livingston,  G.E.  1978. 
Riboflavin  and  thiamin  retention  in  frozen  beef-soy  patties  and 
frozen  fried  chicken  heated  by  methods  used  in  foodservice  opera- 
tion. J.  Food  Sci.  43:1024. 

Anonymous.  1979.  Frozen  foods  almanac.  Quick  Frozen  Foods.  42:101. 

Assoc,  of  Official  Analytical  Chemists  Method  43.024,  1980. 

Augustin,  J.,  Swanson,  B.G.,  Teitzel,  C,  Johson,  S.R.,  Pometto,  S.E., 
Artz,  W.E.,  Haung,  C.P.  and  Schomaker,  C.  1979.  Changes  in  the 
nutrient  composition  during  commercial  processing  of  frozen  potato 
products.  J.  Food  Sci.  44:807. 

Baldwin,  R.E.,  Moody,  D.,  Cloninger,  M.  and  Korschgen,  B.  1972. 

Stability  of  gravies  to  freezing.  J.  Am.  Diet.  Assoc.  60(3) :218. 

Banasik,  O.J.  and  Dick,  J.W..  1982.  Extruded  products  from  duram 
wheat.  Cereal  Foods  World.  27(11): 553. 

Bennett,  G.,  Cone,  J.F.,  Dodds,  M.L.,  Murphy,  J.F.,  Nicholas,  J.E., 
Perry,  J.S.,  Pierce,  R.T.  and  Shaw,  M.D.  1954.  Some  factors 
affecting  the  quality  of  frozen  food  II.  Penn.  Aqr.  Expt.  Sta. 
Bull.  580. 

Bowers,  O.A.  and  Fryer,  B.A.  1972.  Thiamin  and  riboflavin  in  cooked 
and  frozen,  reheated  turkey:  Gas  vs.  microwave  ovens.  J.  Am. 
Diet.  Assoc.  60:399. 

Burr,  H.K.  1971.  Frozen  french-fried  potatoes.  Effect  of  thawing  and 
holding  before  finish  frying  and  their  nonrelation  to  starch 
retrogradation.  J.  Food  Sci.  36:392. 

Campbell,  J.F.  and  Mandigo,  R.W.  1978.  Properties  of  restructured 
pork  patties  as  affected  by  cooking  method,  frozen  storage  and 
reheating  method.  J.  Food  Sci.  43:1648. 

Chan,  U.S.  and  Toledo,  R.T.  1976.  Dynamics  of  freezing  and  their 

effects  on  the  water-holding  capacity  of  a  gelatinized  starch  qel . 
J.  Food  Sci.  41:301. 

Christensen,  J.M.  1981.  Effects  of  hot-holding  time  on  spaghetti  and 
meat  sauce.  MS  Thesis,  Iowa  State  University,  Ames,  IA. 


72 


Col  1 i son,  R.  1968.  Swelling  and  gelation  of  starch  in  "Starch  and  Its 
Derivatives,"  4th  Ed.  Radley,  J. A.  Chapman  and  Hall,  Ltd., 
London. 

Copson,  D.A.  1962.  Microwave  Heating  in  Freeze-Drying,  Electronic 

Ovens  and  Other  Applications.  AVI  Publ.  Co.,  Inc.  Westport,  Conn, 
p.  309-345. 

Copson,  D.A.  1975.  Microwave  Heating.  AVI  Publ.  Co.,  Inc.  Westport, 
Conn.  2nd  edition  p.  324-327. 

Dahl,  C.A.  and  Matthews,  M.E.  1980.  Cook/chill  foodservice  system 
with  a  microwave  oven:  Thiamin  content  in  portions  of  beef  loaf 
after  microwave  heating.  0.  Food  Sci .  45:608. 

Dahl,  C.A.,  Matthews,  M.E.  and  Lund,  D.B.  1981.  Energy  balance  for 
heating  beef  loaf,  effect  of  microwave  heating  in  cook/chill  food- 
service  system.  J.  Am.  Diet.  Assoc.  79(3): 

Davis,  O.G.,  Hanson,  H.L.  and  Lineweaver,  H.  1952.  Characteriziation 
of  the  effect  of  freezing  on  cooked  egg  white.  Food  Res. 
17:393-401. 

Dexter,  J.E.  and  Matsuo,  R.R.  1979.  Effect  of  starch  on  pasta  dough 
rheology  and  spaghetti  cooking  quality.  Cereal  Chem.  56(3): 
190. 

Douglass,  J.  and  Matthews,  R.H.  1982.  Nutrient  content.  Cereal 
Foods  World.  27(11): 558. 

Engler,  P.P.  and  Bowers,  J. A.  1975.  Vitamin  Bs  in  reheated,  held, 
and  freshly  cooked  turkey  breast.  J.  Am.  Diet.  Assoc.  67(7) :42. 

Feiser,  G.E.  and  Cotterill,  O.J.  1983.  Composition  of  serum  and 
sensory  evaluation  of  cooked-frozen-thawed  scrambled  eggs  at 
various  salt  levels.  J.  Food  Sci.  48:794. 

Fennema,  O.R.,  Powrie,  W.D.  and  Marth,  E.H.  1973.  Low-Temperature 
Preservation  of  Foods  and  Living  Matter.  Marcel  Dekker,  Inc. 
N.Y.  pp.  86-193,  202-207,  and  22-227. 

Fennema,  O.R.  1975.  Principles  of  Food  Science,  Part  II.  Physical 
Principles  of  Food  Preservation.  Marcel  Oekker,  Inc.,  N.Y.  pp. 
5-7  and  173-190. 

Fennema,  0.  1977.  Loss  of  vitamins  in  fresh  and  frozen  foods.  Food 
Technol.  23(12):32. 

Glew,  G.  1973.  Cook/Freeze  Catering.  Faber  and  Faber,  London,  pp. 
32-38  and  48-82. 


73 


Gossett,  P.M.  and  Baker,  R.C.  1983.  Effect  of  pH  and  of  suc- 

cinylation  on  the  water  retention  properties  of  coagulated,  frozen 
and  thawed  egg  albumin.  J.  Food  Sci.  48:1391. 

Guadagni,  D.G.,  Nummo,  C.C.  and  Jansen,  E.F.  1957.  The  time-tempera- 
ture tolerance  of  frozen  foods.  II.  Retail  packages  of  frozen 
peaches.  Food  Technol.  7(1) :33. 

Hanson,  H.L.,  Winegarden,  H.M.,  Horton,  M.B.  and  Lineweaver,  H.  1950. 
Preparation  and  storage  of  frozen  cooked  poultry  and  veqetables 
Food  Technol.  4:430. 

Harrison,  D.L.  1980.  Microwave  versus  conventional  cooking  methods: 
Effects  on  food  quality  attributes.  J.  Food  Protection.  43:633. 

Hein,  R.E.  and  Hutchings,  I.J.  1974.   Influence  of  processing  on 

vitamin-mineral  content  and  biological  availability  in  processed 
foods.  In  "Nutrients  in  Processed  Foods,  American  Medical 
Association".  Publishing  Sciences  Group,  Inc.,  Acton,  Mass   n 
59-93.  v' 

Hellendoorn,  E.N.,  deGroot,  A. P.,  Vander  Mijlldekker,  L.P.  and 

Williams,  J.J.L.  1971.  1971.  Nutritive  values  of  canned  meals. 
J.  Am.  Diet.  Assn.  58:434. 

Kahn,  L.M.  and  Livingston,  G.E.  1970.  Effect  of  heating  methods  on 
thiamin  retention  in  fresh  or  frozen  prepared  foods.  J.  Food  Sci 
35:349. 

Katz,  F.  1982.  Pasta-changing  images.  Cereal  Foods  World. 
27{11): 552. 

Kaud,  F.  1972.  Implementing  the  chilled  food  concept.  Hospitals 
46  (Aug.,l):97. 

Klein,  B.P.,  Lee,  H.C.,  Reynolds,  P. A.  and  Wangles,  N.C.  1979. 

Folacin  content  of  microwave  and  conventionally  cooked  frozen 
vegetables.  J.  Food  Sci.  44:286. 

Kraft  A. A.  Reddy,  K.V.,  Sebranek,  J.G.,  Rust,  R.E.  and  Hotchkiss, 
D.K.  1979.  Effect  of  composition  and  method  of  freezing  on 
microbial  flora  of  ground  beef  patties.  J.  Food  Sci.  44:305. 

Kylen  A.M.,  Charles,  V.R.,  McGrath,  B.H.,  Schleter,  J.M.  and  Van 

Duyne,  F.0.  1961.  Microwave  cooking  of  vegetables.  0.  Am.  Diet. 
Assn .  jy ; 321 . 

Kylen  A.M.,  McGrath,  B.H.,  Hallmark,  E.L.  and  Van  Duyne,  F.0.  1964 
Microwave  and  conventional  cooking  of  meat.  J.  Am.  Diet  Assn 
45:139. 


74 


Langlois,  B.E.,  Kemp,  J.D.  and  Fox,  O.D.  1979.  Microbiology  and 
quality  attributes  of  aged  hams  produced  from  frozen  qreen  hams 
J.  Food  Sci.  44:505. 

Larmond,  E.  and  Voisey,  P.M.  1973.  Evaluation  of  spaghetti  quality 
by  a  laboratory  panel.  J.  Inst.  Can.  Sci.  Technol .  Aliment. 
6(4):209. 

Lee,  C.l,  Imoto,  E.M.  and  Rha,  C.  1978.  Evaluation  of  cheese  tex- 
ture. J.  Food  Sci.  43(5):1600. 

Ley,  S.O.  1980.  Foodservice  Refrigeration.  CBI  Publ.  Co.  Inc., 
Boston,  Mass. 

Lineweaver,  H.,  Anderson,  J.D.  and  Hanson,  H.L.  1952.  Effect  of 
antioxidant  on  rancidity  development  in  frozen  creamed  turkey. 
Food  Technol .  4:98. 

Lintas,  C.  and  D'Appolonia,  B.L.  1973.  Effect  of  spaghetti  proces- 
sing on  semolina  carbohydrates.  Cereal  Chem.  50:563. 

Little,  A.C.  1976.  Physical  measurements  as  predictors  of  visual 
appearance.  Food  Technol.  30(10):74,  76-77,  80  and  82. 

Livingston,  G.E.,  Ang,  C.Y.W.  and  Chang,  CM.  1973.  Effects  of 
foodservice  handling.  Food  Technol .  19:28. 

Lund,  D.B.  1979.  Effect  of  commercial  processing  on  nutrients.  Food 
Technol.  33(2):28. 

Mabesa,  L.B.  and  Baldwin,  R.E.  1979.  Ascorbic  acid  in  peas  cooked 
by  microwaves.  J.  Food  Sci.  44:932. 

Matsuo,  R.R.  and  Irvine,  G.N.  1974.  Relationship  between  the  GRL 
spaghetti  tenderness  tester  and  sensory  testing  of  cooked 
spaghetti.  J.  Inst.  Can.  Sci.  Technol.  Aliment.  7(2) : 155. 

Mazur,  P.  1966.  In  "Cryobiology",  ed.  by  H.T.  Meryman,  Academic,  N.Y. 
pp.  213-215. 

Michener,  H.D.,  Thompson,  P. A.  and  Dietrich,  W.C.  1960.  Time-tempera- 
ture tolerance  of  frozen  foods.  XXII.  Relationship  of  bacterial 
population  of  temperature.  Food  Technol.  14(6) : 290. 

Nicholanco,  S.  and  Matthews,  M.E.  1978.  Quality  of  beef  stew  in 
a  hospital  chill  food-service  system.  J.  Am.  Diet.  Assoc 
72(1) : 31. 

Ooraikul,  B.,  Packer,  G.J.K.  and  Hadziyev,  D.  1974.  Starch  and  pec- 
tic  substances  as  affected  by  a  freeze-thaw  potato  qranule  pro- 
cess. J.  Food  Sci.  39:358. 


75 


Ooraikul,  B.  1978.  Some  characteristics  of  the  freeze-thaw  process 
for  potato  granule  production.  Am.  Potato  J.  55:171. 

Perry,  C.  and  Carroad  ,  P.  1980.   Instrument  for  texture  of  small 

curd  cottage  cheese  and  comparison  of  sensory  evaluation.  J.  Food 
Sci.  45:798. 

Rogers,  J.L.  and  Binsted,  R.  1972.  Quick-Frozen  Foods.  The  Commerce 
and  Technology  of  Processing,  Packaging  and  Distribution.  Food 
Trade  Press,  Ltd.  London,  2nd  ed.  pp.  327-332. 

Sale,  J.H.  1976.  A  review  of  microwaves  for  food  processing.  J.  Food 
Technol.  30:319. 

Schoch,  T.J.  1968.  Effects  of  freezing  and  cold  storage  on  pasted 
starches.  In  "The  Freezing  Preservation  of  Foods",  ed.  by  D.K. 
Tressler,  W.B.  Van  Arsdel  and  M.J.  Copley.  AVI  Publ.  Co.  Inc. 
vol.  4  pp.  44-56. 

Snyder,  O.P.  1978.  The  role  of  the  microwave  oven  in  reducing  energy 
consumption  in  commercial  food  service.  J.  MW  Power  13:262. 

Somer,  I. I.,  Farrow,  R.P.  and  Reed,  J.M.  1978.  Influences  of  storage 
and  distribution  upon  vitamin-mineral  content  and  biological 
availability  in  processed  foods.  In  "Nutrients  in  Processed 
Foods,  American  Medical  Association",  Publ.  Sci.  Group,  Inc., 
Acton,  Mass.  pp.  72-76. 

Stone,  M.B.  and  Young,  C.  1985.  Effects  of  cultivars,  blanching  tech- 
niques and  cooking  methods  on  quality  of  frozen  green  beans  as 
measured  by  physical  and  sensory  attributes.  J.  Food  Quality 
(in  press). 

Toepfer,  E.W.,  Polansky,  M.W.,  Eheart,  J.F.,  Slover,  H.T.,  Morris, 
E.R.,  Hepburn,  F.N.  and  Quackenbush,  F.W.  1972.  Nutrient  com- 
position of  selected  wheats  and  wheat  products.  XI.  Summary. 
Cereal  Chem.  49:173. 

Tressler,  O.K.,  Van  Arsdel,  W.B.  and  Copley,  M.J.  ed.  1968.  The 

Freezing  Preservation  of  Foods.  Vol.  4-Freezing  of  precooked  and 
Prepared  Foods.  AVI  Publ.  Co.  Inc.,  Westport,  Conn.  4th  ed.  pp. 
1-22,  33-56  and  213-555. 

Van  Arsdel,  W.B.  1957.  The  time-temperature  tolerance  of  frozen 
foods.  I.  Introduction:  the  problem  and  the  attack.  Food 
Technol.  7(1):  28. 

Van  Dress,  M.  1979.  An  overview  of  the  foodservice  industry. 
National  Food  Review,  Summer. 


76 


Van  Zante,  H.J.  and  Johnson,  S.K.  1970.  Effect  of  electronic  cookinq 
on  thiamin  and  riboflavin  in  buffered  solutions.  J  Am  Diet 
Assoc.   56:133. 

Voisey,  P.W.  and  Larmond,  E.  1973.  Exploratory  evaluation  of  instru- 
mental techniques  for  evaluating  some  textural  characteristics  of 
cooked  spaghetti.  Cereal  Sci.  Today.  18:126-133  and  142. 

Walsh,  D.E.  and  Gilles,  K.A.  1971.  The  influence  of  protein  com- 
position on  spaghetti  quality.  Cereal  Chem.  48:544. 

Watts,  B.M.  and  Peng,  D.  1947.  Rancidity  development  in  raw  versus 
precooked  frozen  pork  sausage.  J.  Home  Econ.  39:88. 


77 


ACKNOWLEDGEMENTS 

I  would  like  to  express  my  sincere  gratitude  to  Dr.  Carole 
Setser  for  her  guidance  and  encouragement  during  the  course  of  this 
study.  She  always  made  herself  available  whenever  help  was  needed,  and 
I  appreciate  all  the  time  and  energy  she  gave  me. 

I  would  also  like  to  thank  Jean  Craig  for  her  invaluable 
assistance  for  the  thiamin  analysis,  and  Dr.  Daniel  Fung  for  his  micro- 
biological assays.  I  am  also  grateful  to  the  faculty,  staff  and  fellow 
graduate  students  of  the  Foods  and  Nutrition  Department  for  their  sup- 
port, and  especially  to  Dr.  Martha  Stone  and  Dr.  Faith  Roach  for  their 
continued  assistance  and  encouragement. 

The  panel  members  deserve  special  recognition  for  their  par- 
ticipation and  assistance  in  this  study:  Dr.  Jane  Bowers,  Dr.  Carole 
Setser,  Dr.  Martha  Stone,  Kenneth  Prusa,  Anna  Kuzniar,  Karan  Dalgas, 
Laura  Lee  Keller  and  Faustina  Bohannon. 

A  very  special  thank  you  is  extended  to  my  husband,  David,  and  our 
son,  Travis,  for  their  patience,  understanding,  encouragement  and  help 
during  my  graduate  studies. 


78 


OJ 


l_     OJ   +-»  ,-H 

CD   4-»  »  t- 

+->  <d  l   cd  x   o 

Ol  «3  j*i    CD    U    O  4- 

o.     •  <o    m    O    Q.  i_ 

w   w   Qj  'n  J         Q.  0) 

r  s.    i         +J   rtj  -o 

-*  ■*->   3   E    en  re         c 

"O   niv>  nj  c        i —   to 
<D   cz   fd   <U  t-  . —  -f-  <— 

S-     CD    QJ  +J     J_  ,—    O 

QQ  (—  2!    to  CD    HJQQ 


4-)  -O 
«3    CD 

J-   -4->   " 


tO    to 

CD    <D 

-C   E 


0)    <D    fO    <D    o 


+J  'I- 
oo    E 


E    1-+J    tJ    w    flji — 
-    c    to  JX.  SZ  • 

c    o  jz   o    ~~ 


■-"  QJ    3 


s  aire 


-M    O    CD    C 

a)  o  s-  -i- 

-i<:  O  4-    CX 


</i    E  J*    ro    u 


J-    O    O    U 
<-J  4-»  O    O 


3T1      _ 

fltir   qj 


ID  CM 
CM  ^H 


CO  CO 


CL  Q--t-> 

.   ■*->   4->  CM    I/) 
I  

*3"   t— «  t— I   CM  .—I  fr 


■i—    m 

■o  (j  -a 
cu  -C   c 


*J  r—   -r- 


4J  E    Q. 


a.  v> 
Q.T3 


"4-        i-  u 


i~  CO 


en  to  i_  4->    oj 

n3    >  Q.^-   +j 

CL  to  ex  to    to 

tSI  DC  to  LO   H 


en  o  4-J  <n| 

CD   QJ  -.-  ,—  d,. 

a>  s-  c  »e  3   o 

i  CO  O  O  l/l  1/1  | —  t 


CO 

M 

■H    TD 

a; 

CU     QJ 

i 

.C     Ql 

j-j 

en  o. 

<u 

to  o 

c 

I 

Q..C 

t— 

■r- 

OO   t_J 

79 


APPENDIX 
FIGURE  A-l.  Scorecard  for  evaluating  spaghetti  and  meat  sauce. 


Please  evaluate  the  samples  in  the  following  order: 

Appearance 

(1)  Moistness 


looks  dry 
(2)  Fat  Separation 


looks  moist,  juicy 


no  fat 
separation 

(3)  Spaghetti 


much  fat 
separation 


strands  clump 
together 


Mouthfeel 


individual  strands 
apparent 


(1)  Dryness-gives  sensation  of  a  reduction  in  free  fluids  in  oral 
cavity  (wetness  is  the  sensation  of  an  increase  in  free  fluids  in 
oral  cavity).  Use  approximately  1  tsp.  of  sample. 


very  wet 


very  dry 


(2)  Greasiness  -  gives  lips  a  sensation  of  thick  immiscible  (greasy) 
coating  in  mouth  or  on  lips.  Evaluate  at  120°F. 


not  greasy 


very  greasy 


80 


Figure  A-l.  Scorecard  for  evaluating  spaghetti  and  meat  sauce 
(continued). 


Spaghetti  Texture 

(1)  Firmness  -  force  required  to  penetrate  the  spaghetti  with  the  molar 
teeth. 


extremely  extremely 

soft  firm 


Flavor 

(1)  Intensity  of  spice 


weak  strong 

(2)  Intensity  of  off-flavor 


no  off-flavor  strong  off-flavor 


Describe  off -flavors  and  indicate  which  samples  have  these  flavors: 


0>     3     "J     -S     -ti 


<-< 

Q. 

rc 

ro 

-h 

c/i 

m 

0) 

n 

O 

rsg 

M 

n 

O 

tu 

ro 

-h 

rt- 

13 

ro 

UD 

o 

&■ 

i/> 

O- 

-h 

CO 

en 

=3 

£ 

-*> 

O 

Q- 

T 

-h 

n 

0) 

Q- 

"5 

<< 

IS 

CU 

a> 

J 

n 

M 

^ 

a> 

GJ 

rt> 

M 

£ 

fD 

i 

W 

tn 

e* 

f-t- 

^ 

3 

3- 

O 

LQ 

uu 

& 

cu 

-s 

1 

* 

CU 

PJ 

"O 

ro 

UD 

n 

ftl 

o 

re 

O- 

1 

Q-*< 

n> 

o 

o 

</> 

3- 

CL 

a> 

cu 

to 

in 

£ 

13 

Q. 

tu 

o 

3 

C 

3 

CO 

•1 

O) 

_i. 

Cl 

-h 

*  -i  rt>  rt> 

)  to  re  a> 
rt>  3  -s 


in  en  t/t  o 


INCREASING   SEPARATION 


82 


fl> 

> 

I 

CO 

o_  — ■■  — h  ~n  m 
a»   3   -j   -j  -h 


<< 

Q.  fD 

fD    -»1 

1/1 

■*  fD 

fD    fD 

O     M 

N    O 

o 

a>  -*« 

fD    ft 

(BID    rl-O 


oj  en  3    £    -h 


-h 

n 

fD 

Q. 

-1 

r+^< 

fD 

Cu 

fD 

3" 

o 

fNJ 

^< 

fD 

CU 

fD 

N 

£ 

fD 

1 

l/l 

w 

r-f 

H- 

15 

3 

3" 

O 

UD 

UD 

Oi 

Cu 

T 

•1 

£ 

cu 

PJ 

"O 

fD 

UD 

3 

(D 

O 

fD 

CL 

1 

o-<< 

fD 

r> 

r+  O 

l/l 

3" 

CL 

fD 

Cu 

U~> 

in 

i/> 

£ 

3 

Q. 

cu 

O 

3 

e 

r+ 

3 

to 

-* 

fD 

CL 

TD 

3 

3 

fD 

UD 

-h 

(/) 

1 

O 

•* 

Cu 

1 

-5 

CO 

r+ 

Cu 

o 

3 

I- 

tn 

* 

fD 

Cu 

r+    I    "O    O 


84 


I 


r 


I 


I 


I 


m 
m 
N 
m 


Si 

z 

oQ 
r< 

mo 
r 
m 


CL 

O. 

(T> 

-h 

fD 

rD 

rt 

r* 

IS) 

o 

3" 

zr 

ro 

Oj 

OJ 

I 

•a 

£ 

o 

3" 

-h 

Z5 

3 

O) 

mi 

CO 

£ 

-i 

■a 

■o 

O 

ft) 

a> 

<T>  << 

fD 

-i 

-i 

O 

ISI 

fD 

o 

o 

IB 

1 

CL 

CL 

i/j 

<-*• 

(/» 

i/i 

3* 

Cu 

CM 

a. 

Q. 

-s 

* 

e 

c= 

rt 

-5 

1 

o 

Q-<< 

=1 

=3 

a> 

n 

in 

un 

</> 

rD 

rt 

a>  to 

t/i 

=T 

3 

(9 

CO  c 

o 

kO 

r* 

3 

-ti 

a> 

CL 

CL 

1 

a> 

3 

VI  >< 

-h  (/) 

rt 

O 

r+ 

v> 

"1 

1 

en 

r+ 

C 

o 

t—  3 

Q. 

T 

fD 

PI 

0> 

3 

*<  to 

CO 

r-i- 

I/) 

a> 

&J 

M  . 

O 

— 1 

i—. 

fD 

to 

< 

P* 

O 

fD 

=5 

13 

CL 

CL 

a> 

&> 

*« 

*< 

o 

n 

l/l 

cr 

co 

r+-0 

rt 

a> 

Q> 

n 

o 

i/i 

n 

o 

1 

ro 

Cu 

en  Q.  O 

to 

I 

T 

fD 

-ti 

-h 

-J 

-i 

< 

fD 

fD 

Cv 

fD 

fD 

N 

N 

C 

— " 

_j. 

fD 

86 


I 


I 


* 


I 


H 

ci 

> 

zo 

o< 

r  O 

mr 
*m 

CO 


I 


CO 

5 

z 

* 


88 


I 


O 

o 

z 
< 

m 

z 

H 

o 
z 
> 
r 

o 
< 

m 

z 


-»-»-»NNNNMt»l         ,  n 

-t^OlOOOM-^OlOOO         U) 


I 


> 

"D 

> 

z 
o 
m 

n 

H 

o 
'7a 


o 

7) 
o 

m 

o 
< 

m 

z 


t 
01 


Q-  CXfO 

H| 

fD 

n> 

p» 

r+ 

NJ 

o 

ar 

J  fD 

c+ 

Of 

PJ 

1 

£ 

£ 

f*  o 

3" 

-h 

13 

=3 

OJ 

UD 

to 

£ 

Hi 

1 

■o 

-o 

n 

rD 

rt> 

n>  << 

0) 

-* 

-% 

o 

Nl 

a> 

o 

o 

<D 

CL 

Cl  (/) 

rt 

l/l 

</> 

3" 

(M 

QJ 

a.  o. 

s: 

c 

e 

a> 

"5 

-i 

n 

D-^ 

=3 

3 

(D 

n 

<jD 

ua 

l/i 

id 

r+ 

QJ 

10 

ui 

ar 

3 

o 

w  a> 

o 

■^  r+ 

3 

■* 

rD 

o.  a. 

1 

at 

o 

vi 

<< 

-h 

«<  to 

OJ 

« 

(/> 

ro 

o  <n 

o 

-s 

-s 

-n 

ro 

en  tn 

0) 

Q> 

I 

IS) 

rD 

CO 

< 

3 

o 

rr> 

rD 

Z2 

3 

i/i 

a. 

Q- 

u-i 

Di 

<< 

<< 

O 

OJ 

PJ 

m 

=i 

(/) 

<-+-a 

CL 

o   i/»  o  -h 

-S  fD  -»• 

to    i  3 

•     -l  -s  n> 

f0  fD  i/> 

fD  rD  w 

M  M  • 

3  13 


90 


O 
7) 
-< 

z 
m 

U) 


ni 

o 
•< 

n 

r 
m 


2] 

z 
m 

CO 


c*: 

Q> 

Q.  O 

*n 

LT> 

a 

3 

c 

"1 

T 

co 

Q. 

1 

ro 

3 

a. 

LT1 

fD 

c/i 

OJ 

r+ 

13 

rsi 

o 

*< 

3"  (£3 

a 

fD 

~S 

Of 

< 

1 

*< 

£ 

CU 

ft) 

r* 

c* 

3 

31 

< 

o 

13 

W 

a> 

ft) 

-1 

in 

^l< 

£ 

-i 

tw 

W 

td 

-o 

a. 

o 

c 

a> 

fl) 

0) 

"O 

^< 

l/l 

~5 

<< 

Di 

o 

o 

O 

iyi 

fD 

CD 

Z3 

Q. 

a. 

i/i 

V) 

Lrt 

o 

r+ 

■J 

-+i 

OJ 

T 

CL 

01 

1 

1 

C 

c: 

^D 

a> 

ft) 

3 

-s 

n> 

fD 

fD 

M 

Q. 

3 

=3 

fD 

f+ 

ia 

(_n 

13 

LTi 

Q) 

03 

r+ 

UD 

J 

Cu 

13 

-h 

ft) 

13 

a> 

3 

O. 

"5 

-h 

Cl 

ft) 

3 

r+ 

CL 

3 

1 

O 

3" 

fD 

(/> 

a> 

a> 

-h 

(/) 

r+ 

r+ 

£ 

O 

t/» 

<<     -h  fp    Ca)  ft) 


92 


INCREASING   FIRMNESS 


a>   3   ~i   -i  -h 

*<   Q-  rc>  n>  -h 

t/i    -■•  fD    rt»  fD 

n  n   n  n 

o  a»   -j-  rD  rt 


O  CL  -I 

-h         O    fD 


Q.  "1 

rt 

"< 

(D 

0> 

tn 

3" 

o 

N 

<< 

ro 

Ot 

fD 

INI 

£ 

fD 

1 

(/I 

1/1 

rt- 

rt 

3 

3 

3" 

o 

UD 

in 

QJ 

&J 

T 

1 

s; 

tu 

CU 

"O 

fD 

to 

3 

(b 

n 

ro 

CL 

-j 

CL<< 

n> 

o 

rt 

o 

I/) 

3- 

CL 

fD 

» 

i/»  io 

(/» 

s 

3 

CL  Q> 

o 

3 

c 

Pt 

3 

UH 

1 

fD 

CL  </> 

■D 

3 

T3 

CD  tQ 

-h 

1 

O 

O 

o> 

"5 

n> 

O 

CL  CO 

H- • 

t/1 

U3 

" 

3 

CL 

CL  CO 

C 

01 

3 

T 

Q 

o 

</> 

T 

3 

to 

UD 

rt-  cn^ 

O 

-5 

fD 

OJ 

=r 

Q) 

< 

3 

fD 

It 

fD 

3 

CL 

-h 

o 

*< 

-*l 

-j 

-h 

i/i 

LH 

1/1 

1 

"O 

-+> 

OJ 

<_n 

n 

< 

CL  o 

94 

INCREASING  INTENSITY 

-nO-'N:OJ4^CnO)\IOO(DO-'MC»J-^ 

Jl 

sQ 

1        I,       I        I        I        1        1    pi        1 

1      U) 

m 

n          m 
D           CO 

I 

CO 

\                                / 

z 

"0 

o 

\                           / 

(/) 

m 

\                      / 

o 

CO 

o 

\                 / 

73 

O        -n 

30            I 

\            / 

-< 

CO           ^ 

T    T 

»Jh 

CO 

o 

71 

o 

m 
m 

73 

N 

m 

I 

m 

+  H      T 

(/) 

5      H- 

-It 

i 

O^     OJ 

\ 

< 

?9 

. 

U) 

-L<~> 

\ 

^r 

\ 

£co 
o 

\ 

7a 

\ 

m 

i 

-T  5 

5COR 

i 

' 

m 

N 

m 

CO 

/ 

m 

H 
I 
> 

-n 

^^ 

1 

H  -1 

| 

3 . 

If) 

Cn 

oj  cu   cio  ~n  m 

O  3  c:    1  -i   -h 
Q.  -J         ro   -h 

Q.  -*•  Ui  fD    fD 

<<    3-tQ    fD    fD    rt 


M 


<      I 


W    S    !!•    (D 

e+  -*>        3  3-  -t) 

O    3    OJ  — *  O* 


QJ 


tt 


lO  "O    Q-  i/>    O    3" 
fD    fD    P>  "O  <<    fD 
•      "J  <<    D>    O    O) 
-..  o    — i  r+ 

OM  Alt** 
Q.  <-+  Q.  i/l  3 
(/)    O  (£i 

-s  -h  at 

Q-  (H    -1    -S    O 
C  CO     fD    fD    3 
-J    (D    fD 
-..».   m   q.  3 

3  -'■(BO 

(D    Ul  3    1/1    -•■ 

r+  i-«  to  c+ 
3"  EH    3    3 

fD    -•■  3    a>    fD 
3    Q.  cf  t/i 
- h  Q.  fD    I/) 

-»•-».  r+  Q.  • 
"J    O     3" 

w  fl   a   -h 
r+  n-  s:  o 

fD    -<-  "J 

U1W     3 

l£3     I— I 
Q.  Ul  * 

ft*      I    T3 
^C    -h  fD    U) 
</>-*-* 

fD  ->• 
O  fD  O 
-*>  N    Q- 

-*•  i/> 
CU    3 

to 


96 


INCREASING  MOISTNESS 


I 


O 

o 
z 
< 

m 

z 

H 

o 
z 
> 

r 

o 
< 

m 

z 


Mt/J-I^UlCn-NlOOtOO-'MU-^Ul 

J I I I I l_ 


■n 

;o 
m 
m 

N 

m 


U) 


o 
o 

m 

o 
< 

m 


o 

10 

3  CO 
o 

Is 

o  O 


CO 
H 
Z 

m 

10 
10 


t 
*-» 

o 


(D    ID    rt 


W    £    Q»    (D    r+O 


-s  lO   UD^   s:   -h 


UD  T3 

Gi- 

i/i 

o 

ft) 

fD    rt> 

ft  T3  *< 

fD 

'    2  ** 

ft 

o 

rsi 

o 

fD 

o 

IA 

n> 

fD 

1 

CL 

r+- 

CL  t/1 

l/l 

O 

3" 

~5 

-h  ft 

ft 

CL 

ft 

-j 

T 

* 

B 

UD 

(D 

fD 

-* 

ro 

fD 

n 

M 

Cl<< 

3 

ro 

n 

tfl 

(11 

3 

i/> 

i 

UD 

IS 

UD 

l/l 

3" 

o> 

3 

fD 

-*■ 

3 

ft 

o 

_.._..  rt  Cl  r+ 
I    O     3"  3" 

l/i    ft    ft     -«i  -*' 
rr  c*  £    O    ft 


<<    -hfD    WlD 


98 

THIAMIN   (mg/100g) 

H 

■n 

m  - 

0.8  -j 

0.7  - 
0.6  - 
0.5  - 
0.4  - 
0.3  - 
0.2  - 
0.1    - 
n  - 

3        ± 
D        > 

X 

J 

I 

z 

/ 

r 
O 

/ 

CO 

i 

10 

-n 

3 

m 

N 

m 

H 

3 

-    THAW   CYCLES 
THIAMIN 

7] 

1 

m 

m 

N 

m 
i 

Ul  - 

1 

i 

H 
I 
> 

m 

\ 

O 

■< 

o 

rn 

99 


APPENDIX 

Table  A-2.  Least  square  means  comparing  reheating  by  conventional  and 
microwave  ovens  and  freeze  thaw  treatments  for  sensory 
attributes  of  spaghetti  and  meat  sauce 


Fresh 

Freeze-Thaw 

Cycles5 

Characteristic 

1 

3 

5 

51 

Fat  Separation13 
Conventional  oven 
Microwave  oven 

7.74 
8.01 

9.70 
7.74 

7.70 
7.61 

7.80 
7.19 

7.62 
6.87 

Strandsc 

Conventional  oven 
Microwave  oven 

9.15 
9.22 

4.45 
5.49 

5.22 
5.96 

4.60 
5.01 

4.97 
4.60 

Mouthfeeld 
Conventional  oven 
Microwave  oven 

4.64 
4.83 

5.80 
7.10 

7.40 
7.72 

6.70 
6.53 

6.50 
7.46 

Greasinesse 
Conventional  oven 
Microwave  oven 

6.86 
6.47 

7.64 
6.93 

7.20 
7.14 

7.94 
6.59 

7.41 
6.92 

Texture-Firmness^ 
Conventional  oven 
Microwave  oven 

8.56 
8.66 

4.04 
4.83 

3.01 
4.34 

1.85 
3.21 

2.40 
3.50 

Spiciness9 
Conventional  oven 
Microwave  oven 

6.82 
8.49 

4.47 
4.40 

3.92 

4.31 

4.10 
4.15 

4.22 

4.23 

Off -flavor" 
Conventional  oven 
Microwave  oven 

2.11 
2.67 

3.33 
3.33 

4.19 
3.35 

6.45 
3.74 

4.14 
3.94 

aEvenly  spaced  during  39  day  period  except  51  which  were  all 
immediately  after  initial  freezing. 


Scale: 
Scale: 
Scale: 
Scale: 
Scale: 
9Scale: 

"c  -, 
Scale: 


0,  no  fat  separation;  15,  much  fat  separation. 

0,  strands  clump  together;  15,  individual  strands  apparent. 

0,  very  moist;  15,  very  dry. 

0,  not  greasy;  15  very  greasy. 

0,  extremely  soft;  15,  extremely  firm. 

0,  weak  spice  flavor;  15,  strong  spice  flavor. 

0,  no  off -flavor;  15,  strong  off-flavor. 


100 


APPENDIX 


Table  A-3.  Least  square  means  comparing  reheating  by  conventional  and 
microwave  ovens  and  freeze-thaw  treatments  on  color  of 
spaghetti  and  meat  sauce. 


Fresh 

Freeze- 

-Thaw  Cycles3 

Characteristic 

1 

3 

5 

51 

L 
Conventional  oven 
Microwave  oven 

47.80 
48.03 

49.40 
48.13 

49.07 
49.83 

48.83 
48.63 

49.77 
48.70 

a 

Conventional  oven 
Microwave  oven 

11.40 
10.87 

10.53 
10.23 

10.50 
10.30 

9.97 

10.40 

10.43 
7.83 

b 

Conventional  oven 
Microwave  oven 

17.03 
17.40 

17.17 
16.43 

17.07 
16.83 

16.90 
16.80 

17.23 
16.13 

Saturation  Index 
Conventional  oven 
Microwave  oven 

20.50 
20.52 

20.14 
19.36 

20.04 
19.74 

19.62 
19.76 

20.15 
18.13 

Hue  Angle 
Conventional  oven 
Microwave  oven 

0.98 
1.01 

1.02 
1.01 

1.02 
1.02 

1.04 
1.02 

1.03 

1.13 

L* 

Conventional  oven 
Microwave  oven 

54.90 
55.13 

56.30 
55.23 

56.20 
56.90 

55.90 
55.77 

56.67 
55.80 

a* 

Conventional  oven 
Microwave  oven 

13.33 
12.70 

12.20 
11.93 

12.23 

11.90 

11.63 
12.27 

12.10 
11.43 

b* 

Conventional  oven 
Microwave  oven 

26.67 
26.93 

25.47 
24.63 

25.53 
24.80 

25.23 
25.07 

25.77 

23.80 

♦Saturation  Index 
Conventional  oven 
Microwave  oven 

29.84 
29.78 

28.24 
27.37 

28.31 
27.51 

27.79 
27.91 

28.47 
26.41 

*Hue  Angle 
Conventional  oven 
Microwave  oven 

1.10 
1.12 

1.12 
1.12 

1.12 
1.12 

1.14 
1.12 

1.13 
1.12 

^Evenly  spaced  during  39  day  period  except  51  samples  which  were  free/P 
thaw  cycled  immediately  after  initial  freezing. 


101 


APPENDIX 
TABLE  A-4.  Bacterial  counts  in  spaghetti. 


Sample  Viable  cell  counts/g 

1  18 

2  1170 

3  21 

4  15 
439  A  15 

439  B  Non  detectable 

100  A  21 

100  B  93 

1224  A  Non  detectable 

1224  B  9 

1230  A  12 

1230  B  12 

17  A  15 

17  B  9 

115  A  12 

121  A  15 

121  B  18 


EFFECTS  OF  FREEZING  AND  THAWING 

ON  SENSORY  QUALITY  AND  THIAMIN  CONTENT 

OF  SPAGHETTI  AND  MEAT  SAUCE 

AFTER  REHEATING  IN  CONVENTIONAL  OR  MICROWAVE  OVEN 


by 

CINDY  LOU  BLOMQUIST 
B.S.,  Kansas  State  University,  Manhattan,  1977 


AN  ABSTRACT  OF  A  MASTER'S  THESIS 

submitted  in  partial  fulfillment  of  the 
requirements  for  the  degree 

MASTER  OF  SCIENCE 

Hepartment  of  Foods  and  Nutrition 

KANSAS  STATE  UNIVERSITY 
Manhattan,  Kansas 

1935 


ABSTRACT 

Frown  spaghetti  with  meat  sauce  was  subjected  to  one,  three, 
or  five  evenly  spaced  or  five  immediate  freeze-thaw  cycles  during  a  39 
day  frozen  storage  period  and  compared  with  the  fresh  product. 
Spaghetti  samples  were  reheated  to  74°C  in  a  conventional  or  microwave 
oven  after  thawing  at  room  temperature  for  eight  hours.  Physical 
measurements  for  color  and  firmness  were  obtained  using  the  HunterLab 
spectrophotometer  and  Instron  Universal  Testing  Machine  (IUTM),  respec- 
tively. The  chemical  measurement  for  thiamin  also  was  determined.  An 
eight  member  trained  panel  evaluated  the  spaghetti  and  meat  sauce  for 
appearance,  mouthfeel,  texture  and  flavor  using  a  15  cm  descriptive 
rating  scale. 

Analysis  of  variance  (ANOV)  of  sensory  data  indicated  that 
treatment,  significantly  influenced  strand  separation.  Significant  dif- 
ferences (p  <  0.05)  resulted  between  fresh  and  all  samples  which  had 
been  frozen  and  thawed.  No  significant  differences  were  found  in  fat 
separation  or  greasiness  among  the  various  treatments.  A  significant 
difference  (p  <  0.05)  in  moistness  was  found  between  fresh  and  frozen 
samples.  The  frozen  spaghetti  and  meat  sauce  was  consistently  less 
moist  than  fresh  samples.  The  fresh  product  was  significantly  (p  < 
0.001)  more  moist  than  the  frozen  product,  and  the  firmness  decreased 
as  the  number  of  freeze-thaw  cycles  increased.  Stronger  spice  inten- 
sity (p  <  0.05)  was  found  in  the  fresh  pasta  as  opposed  to  the  frozen 
samples.  These  differences  were  significant  (p  <  0.05).  However, 


little  difference  was  found  among  various  frozen  treatments.  A  pro- 
nounced stale  and  "cardboard"  off -flavor  was  detected  by  panel  members 
after  5  evenly  spaced  freeze-thaw  cycles.  These  samples  were  signifi- 
cantly different  (p  <  0.05)  from  all  treatments  except  those  subjected 
to  5  immediate  freeze-thaw  cycles.  Moistness  was  the  only  sensory 
attribute  significantly  (p  <  0.05)  affected  by  the  reheating  method. 
The  spaghetti  and  meat  sauce  was  more  moist  when  reheated  in  a 
microwave  oven  rather  than  a  conventional  oven  after  three  or  five 
freeze-thaw  periods. 

ANOV  of  physical  measurements  for  texture  indicated  treatment 
had  no  significant  effect  on  product  firmness,  however,  fresh  samples 
were  firmer  than  frozen  ones.  Color  measurement  data  indicated 
treatment  had  no  significant  effect  on  hue,  however,  the  saturation 
indices  were  higher  for  fresh  samples  than  frozen  samples,  indicating 
a  slightly  duller  product  after  freezing.  The  reheating  method  did 
have  a  significant  effect  on  the  b  (p  <  0.05),  and  b*  (p  <  0.01)  values 
which  were  higher  (yellower)  after  reheating  in  a  microwave  oven. 
Also,  the  product  which  was  reheated  conventionally  was  duller  than  the 
one  reheated  in  the  microwave  oven. 

ANOV  indicated  freezing  treatment  and  reheating  method  did  not 
significantly  (p  <  0.05)  decrease  the  thiamin  content  except  when  the 
product  was  subjected  to  5-immediate  freeze-thaw  cycles.  The  greatest 
thiamin  loss  was  found  after  conventionally  reheating  the  spaghetti  and 
meat  sauce  subjected  to  5-immediate  freeze-thaw  cycles. 


