5556 


LIBRARY  OF  CONGRESS 


0  014  486  500  5  # 


TX  657 
.S5  S6 

Copy    1 


jim^^^ 


MK^hiii 


THE 

ELECTRIC  RANGE 

HANDBOOK 


"DO  IT  ELECTRICALLY" 
Prepared  and  published  by 

The  Society  for  Electrical  Development,  Inc. 

United  Engineering  Societies  Building 

New  York  City 


.6^ 

5^ 


Copyright,  igig^hy 
The  Society  for  Electrical  Development^  Inc. 


Price  $1.50 


©CI.A525161 

m  2'^  1919 
-wo  J 


o 


Dedicated 


to  the  national  conservation  of  fuel, 
food  and  labor  and  to  greater  effi- 
ciency and  economy   in    the   home. 


Purpose  of  This  Handbook 

THIS  HANDBOOK  is  a  complete  compilation  of  authentic 
electric  range  information  and  data.    Its  purpose  is  to  guide 
and  help  solve  the  problems   of  central  station  managers 
who  have  realized  the  importance  and  profit  of  the  range  load  and 
are  contemplating  the  establishing  of  a  rate  and  the  merchandis- 
ing of  ranges. 

A  secondary  purpose  is  to  stimulate  greater  range  activity  in 
general,  to  show  the  way  to  more  extensive  sales  to  manu- 
facturers, jobbers  and  contractor-dealers;  also  to  central 
stations  which  have  a  cooking  rate  but  have  been  retarded  by 

different  causes  in  installing  ranges  on  their  lines. 

The  information  and  recommendations  are  based  on  the  valu- 
able experiences  and  resultant  policies  of  a  number  of  the  large 
and  small  central  stations  throughout  the  United  States  which 
have  pioneered  and  placed  the  sales  and  service  of  the  electric 
range  on  a  definite,  successful  and  profitable  basis. 

The  text  has  been  reviewed  and  approved  by  several  range 
authorities  and  cannot  be  materially  affected  by  changing  con- 
ditions, as  the  fundamental  methods  of  merchandising  and  main- 
taining this  load  builder  will  remain  unchanged.  The  technical 
chapters  are  written  in  non-technical  language  for  the  benefit  of 
the  salesman  and  should  be  included  in  his  range  education. 
There  are  sales  advantages  in  knowing  essential  facts  about  the 
central  station  system. 

In  this  country  today,  more  than  4,500  communities  have 
electric  cooking  rates.  About  1,650  are  active  and  are  steadily 
merchandising  ranges  through  systematized  business  methods. 
The  others  merely  have  a  rate,  unsupported  by  sales  effort.  The 
fact  that  the  electric  range  is  a  well-established  and  rapidly- 


growing  factor  in  central  station  development  is  proved  by  the 
overwhelming  success  of  these  progressive  companies. 

The  electric  range  requires  little  additional  equipment  com- 
pared with  the  total  plant  and  line  investment.  Its  sale  and 
maintenance  are  fundamentally  simple.  Its  load  is  unquestion- 
ably desirable  because  of  its  large  off-peak  consumption.  And  it 
increases  by  more  than  200%  the  revenue  from  the  average 
home  and  is  therefore  the  solution  of  the  profitless  lighting 
customer. 

In  other  words,  the  electric  range  is  the  supreme  domestic 
load  builder.  Not  only  does  it  offer  the  greatest  possibilities  of 
any  undeveloped  field  today,  but  it  is  destined  to  be  one  of  the 
largest  revenue  producers  of  the  Electrical  Industry. 

So  there  is  a  need  for  a  practical  handbook  covering  all  the 
problems  in  the  building  of  a  successful  range  load.  And  it  is 
with  this  thought  and  object  in  mind  that  this  publication  is  pre- 
pared and  produced  by  The  Society  for  Electrical  Development. 

The  Society  wishes  to  acknowledge  indebtedness  to  the  Central 
Station  managers,  range  manufacturers  and  members  of  the 
N.  E.  L.  A.  Range  Committee  whose  material  was  used  in  the 
compilation  of  this  volume.  Thanks  is  also  due  the  Electrical 
World,  Electrical  Merchandising  and  the  Electrical  Review  for 
photographs. 


CONTENTS 

CHAPTER  I 
FUNDAMENTAL  FACTS 

Page 

THE  RANGE  LOAD 15 

Development — Revenue — Investment — ^Load — Other  Advantages 

RANGE  COMPARED  WITH  APPLIANCES 18 

Based  on  Averages — Annual  Kilowatt-Hour  Consumption — Annual  Revenue 

COOKING  RATES 19 

General    Discussion — ^Various    Forms    of   Rates — Central    Station    Man's 
Opinion 

JUSTIFICATION  OF  COOKING  RATE 24 

Public   Service    Commission   Rulings — An   Illinois    Decision — An   Oregon 
Decision 

FINANCING  EXTENSIONS 27 

Methods — ^Pacific  Plan — ^Utah  Plan — Cleveland  Plan — Customer  Ownership 
— ^Excellent    Investment — ^Where    Inaugurated — One    Company's    Offer — 
The  Society's  Position — View  of  St.  Louis  Company 
(Insert  Folder  in  Bacli  of  Book) 

ELECTRIC  RANGE  DATA  FROM  100  CENTRAL  STATIONS. 

Range  Situation  Today — ^Actual  Conditions — Notes — Definitions 

CHAPTER  II 
THE  ELECTRIC  RANGE 

PRACTICABILITY  AND  SUPREMACY 34 

Evolution  of  Cooking  Devices — ^Practicability — ^Supremacy 

CONSTRUCTION  AND  PRICE 35 

Individuality — General  Construction — Oven — Surface  Units — Price 

OPERATING  COST  AND  ECONOMY 41 

Governing  Factors — Average  Figures — ^Economy  of  Operation 

ITS  PLACE  IN  THE  HOME 42 

Modem  Homemaking — Conveniences — Completes  the  Home 

KITCHENETTE  RANGES 45 

Market — ^Load  and  Installation 

CHAPTER  III 
ELECTRIC  COOKERY 

HISTORY  AND  DEVELOPMENT 48 

Introduction — Development — Large  Station  Sales — Superiority 


ELECTRIC  HEAT 51 

Generation — ^Advantages — Heat  Characteristics — Methods  of  Measuring — 
Comparison  with  Other  Methods 

FIRELESS  COOKER  PRINCIPLE 52 

Evolution — ^PurpKDse — Foods  Cooked — The  Electric  Cooker 


CHAPTER  IV 
RANGE  LOAD 

INVESTMENT  AND  RETURN 54 

Average  Conditions — ^Pro-rating  Investment 

CHARACTERISTICS  OF  THE  LOAD 55 

Character — Demand  and  Diversity  Factor — Two  Examples  of  Range  Loads 


CHAPTER  V 
INSTALLATION 

GENERAL 58 

Factors  in  Installation — Central  Stations'  Responsibility — Standard  Units 

WIRING  SPECIFICATIONS 60 

General — Service  Connections — ^Main  Line  Switches  and  Meter  Loops — 
Range  Circuits — ^Wiring  Table — ^Master  Switch — ^Double-Throw  Switches 
for  Water  Heaters — Grounding  Frame 

RECOMMENDATIONS 66 

Voltage — Transformer  Capacities — ^Meter  Sizes — Testing  the  Range 


CHAPTER  VI 
MERCHANDISING  METHODS 

FIRST  IMPORTANT  STEPS 71 

General  Basic  Factors — ^Revolutionizing  Cooking  Methods — Co-operation 
of  Entire  Company — Selling  Every  "Electrical"  Man 

PRICE  AND  SELLING  POLICIES 73 

Price  Maintenance — ^Merchandising  Problems — Time  Payments — Trial  In- 
stallations— Introductory  Offers — ^Miscellaneous  Items 

SALES  DEPARTMENT  WORK 78 

Organization — Sales   Manager's   Position — Salesmen's   Work — Demonstra- 
tors* Duties — Merchandising  Throughout  a  Territory 

SERVICE  DEPARTMENT  DUTIES 85 

Organization — Specific  Work 

SALESMEN  AND  DEMONSTRATORS 87 

Their  Importance — The  Salesman — Why    Stores     Lose     Customers — The 
Demonstrator — Compensation 

RANGE  AND  PARTS'  STOCK 92 

Adequate  Stock — Types  and  Makes — Repair  Parts'  Stock 


DISPLAYS  AND  PUBLIC  DEMONSTRATIONS 94 

Variety  of  Displays — Salesroom — Show  Windows — Demonstrations — 
Specific  Action 

CAMPAIGNS  AND  SALES  IDEAS 100 

Importance — Activities — Sales  Ideas 

PROSPECTS  AND  FOLLOW-UP  WORK 105 

Classification — Class  C  Prospects — Class  B  Prospects — Class  A  Prospects 

SALES  DEVELOPMENT 107 

General  Work — Domestic  Field — Architects  and  Builders — Securing  Their 
Interest — Service  Bureau  for  Architects — Ranges  in  Apartments — Cooking 
Without  a  Rate — Domestic  Science  Field — Commercial  Service — Miscel- 
laneous Activity 

OFFICE  AND  WAREHOUSE  FORMS 119 

Prospect  Card — Salesman's  "Score"  Card — Installation  Application — Price, 
Inspection  and  Delivery  Card — Range  Record  Card — Range  Trouble  Order 

CONTRACTOR-DEALERS'    POSITION 124 

Place  in  Industry — Situation  Today — Merchandising  Tomorrow — Mutual 
Dependence 

CHAPTER  VII 
SELLING  POINTS 

SELLING  THE  ELECTRIC  COOKING  IDEA 128 

The  Prospect — The  Idea  and  Not  the  Range — Why  Women  Buy — 
Price  not  Important 

BETTER  COOKED  FOOD 135 

Salesman's  Knowledge — Science  Supersedes  Guessing — Methods  of  Cooking 
— Breads  and  Pastries — Vegetables — Meats 

ADVANTAGES  OF  ELECTRIC  RANGE 143 

Scientific  Cookery — Simplest  Operation — ^Perfect  Control — Heat  Conser- 
vation—Appreciated Coolness — Utmost  Cleanliness — Absolute  Safety — 
Economic  Factors — Using  Appliances  on  Range  Socket 

OVERCOMING  OBSTACLES 145 

Price — Operating  Cost — "Slower"  Operation — Heating  Kitchen — ^Water 
Heating — Teaching  Range  Operation  to  Foreign  Servants 


CHAPTER  VIII 
ADVERTISING 

PURPOSE  AND  KINDS 150 

Purpose — Methods — Campaign  Advertising — Continuous  Advertising — 
Direct-by-Mail  Literature — Sales  Letters — Newspapers,  Slides,  Movies — 
Educational  Work — Feature  Advertising — Publicity 

PLANNING  THE  CAMPAIGN 164 

Primary  Factors — Appropriation — Mediums 

PREPARATION  OF  COPY 167 

Fundamentals — Copy — Layout 


CHAPTER  IX 
SERVICE  AND  MAINTENANCE 

ELECTRIC  COOKING  SERVICE 173 

Real  Service — Handling  Complaints — Pointers  for  Service  Men 

EDUCATING  THE  NEW  USER 175 

Home  Demonstrations— Oven — Surface  Units — Other  Appliances 


CHAPTER  X 
ELECTRIC  WATER  HEATERS 

WATER  HEATING 178 

Load — Storage  System — Intermittent  System — Factors  Affecting  Monthly 
Bill — Efficiency  and  Time  to  Heat  Water 

TYPES  OF  HEATERS 185 

Choosing  Equipment — Outside-Circulation  Type  Water  Heater — Inside- 
Circulation  Type  Water  Heater — "Clamp-on"  Type  Heater — Importance 
of  Heat  Insulation— Scale  Formation 


CHAPTER  XI 
COMMERCIAL  COOKING  APPARATUS 

ELECTRIC  BREAD  BAKING 194 

Development — Advantages 

BREAD  BAKING  OVENS 196 

Capacities — Advantages 

COMMERCIAL  INSTALLATIONS 198 

Progress — Advantages — ^Recent  Roasting  Test 

RESTAURANT  COOKING  APPARATUS 201 

Kinds  on  Market — Planning  Installations — Rates  and  Revenue 


CHAPTER  XII 
GENERAL  RANGE  INFORMATION 

STANDARDIZED  NAMES  OF  RANGE  PARTS 203 

Nomenclature  of  Parts  which  are  Included  in  General  Construction  of  all 
Standard  Makes  of  Electric  Ranges 

INSURANCE  REQUIREMENTS 206 

National  Electrical  Code — Underwriters'  Laboratories — Approved  Electri- 
cal Fittings 

SOCIETY'S  RANGE  SERVICE 207 

Editorial  Aid — Rate  Statistics — Merchandising  Service 


ILLUSTRATIONS 

Page 
Chart  Showing  Annual  Range  Revenue  Compared  with  Annual  Appliance  Revenue.  ...        19 

Stock-Selling  Window  Display  of  the  Northern  States  Power  Co.,  Minneapolis 27 

Commercial  Load  Rebate-Contract  Form  used  by  Cleveland  Electric  Illuminating  Co.       28 
Line  Extension  Rebate -Contract  Form  used  by  the  Utah  Power  8b  Light  Co.,  Salt  Lake  City       30 

Customer  Ownership  Advertisement  of  H.  M.  &  Byllesby  fit  Co 31 

The  Four  General  Types  of  Electric  Ranges 36,  37,  38 

Model  Kitchen  of  Today 43 

Four  Methods  of  Installing  Kitchenette  Ranges 45,  46,  47 

Curve  Showing  a  Typical  Apartment  House  Range  Load  Seven  Days  of  the  Week.  ...        56 

Range  Wiring  Diagram 61 

Chart  Showing  Effect  of  Variation  of  Voltage  in  Heating  Range  Oven 67 

Competitive  Method  of  Energizing  Salesmen 80 

Chart  Showing  Why  Stores  Lose  Customers 88 

Excellent  Range  Window  Display 95 

Range  Prospects  Doing  Their  Own  Demonstrating 97 

Demonstration  Platform,  Utah  Power  &  Light  Co 98 

Range  Demonstration  on  Automobile  Truck 101 

Magazine  Postcard  of  Minneapolis  General  Electric  Co 102 

"Jingle"  Advertisement  of  the  Edison  Electric  Illuminating  Co.,  Boston 103 

Electric  Cooking  School  of  the  Union  Electric  Light  85  Power  Co.,  St.  Louis 108 

Announcement  of  Cooking  Bureau  of  Minneapolis  General  Electric  Co 109 

Periodical  Recipe  Form  used  by  Minneapolis  General  Electric  Co 110 

Newspaper    Advertisement   of  "Free    School    of   Practical  Cookery"  of  the  Southern 

California  Edison  Co Ill 

Range- Apartment  Advertisement  of  the  Edison  Electric  Illuminating  Co.,  Boston 114 

Range- Apartment  Advertisement  of  Union  Electric  Light  &  Power  Co.,  St.  Louis 117 

Range  Prospect  Cards 1 20 

Range  Installation  Application 120 

Salesman's  "Score  Card." 121 

Price,  Inspection  and  Delivery  Card 122 

Range  Record  Card 123 

Range  Trouble  Order 124 

Why  Women  Buy 132 

Range  Booklet  published  by  the  Southern  California  Edison  Co.,  Los  Angeles 150 

Changeable  Panel  Billboard  of  the  Central  Illinois  Public  Service  Co.,  Bushnell 153 


Two  Sales  Letters  used  by  the  Utah  Power  &  Light  Co.,  Salt  Lake  City 154,  160 

Inside  Fold  of  Double-Page  Sales  Letter,  Utah  Co 156 

Excellent  Range  Newspaper  Advertisement  of  the  Union  Electric  Light  &  Power  Co., 

St.  Louis 159 

Range  Street  Car  Card  of  the  Edison  Electric  Illuminating  Co.,  Boston 161 

Newspaper  Advertisement  of  the  Charlottesville  fie  Albermarle  Railway  Co.,  Va 162 

Diagram  Showing  How  to  Layout  an  Advertisement 170 

Outside-Circulation  Type  Electric  Water  Heater 179 

Curve  Showing  How  Hot  Water  Accumulates  at  Top  of  Storage  Tank 181 

Two  Charts  Showing  Time  Required  to  Heat  Water 186,  187 

Inside-Circulation  Type  Electric  Water  Heater 188 

"Clamp-on"  Type  Electric  Water  Heater 190 

Pipes  Showing  Two  Months'  Scale  Formation  in  Old  Type  Electric  Water  Heater 192 

Commercial  Cooking  Installation  in  a  Western  Cafeteria 195 

Modem  Type  of  Large  Electric  Bread  Baking  Oven 197 

Large  Electric  Range  Installed  in  a  Southern  Apartment  House  Kitchen 199 

Complete  Electric  Kitchen  in  Large  Detroit  Hospital 201 


CHAPTER  I 

FUNDAMENTAL  FACTS 
The  Range  Load 

Development.  Central  station  service  is  available  today  in 
12,545  communities  of  the  United  States.  More  than  4,500  of 
these  places  have  an  electric  cooking  rate. 

Wherever  the  electric  range  has  been  extensively  and  inten- 
sively merchandised  it  has  provided  one  of  the  most  desirable 
and  profitable  loads  of  the  central  station. 

The  principal  advantages  of  the  cooking  load  are  but  briefly 
outlined  here.  A  more  complete  description  and  discussion  will 
be  found  in  other  chapters. 

Revenue.  The  electric  range  load  increases  the  average  revenue 
from  the  home  by  200%  to  250%,  and  transforms  a  little-  or 
no-profit  customer  into  a  profitable  one,  and  without  increas- 
ing the  consumer's  household  expenses. 

The  revenue  is  so  large  in  comparison  with  the  investment 
involved  that  central  stations  can  afford  and  are  justified  in 
making  a  rate  that  is  only  slightly  higher  than  the  additional 
cost  of  generating  the  current. 

The  very  limited  revenue  period  of  residence  lines  when  used 
for  lighting  only,  demands  the  intensive  use  of  other  devices; 
and  the  electric  range  is  the  best  business  for  the  small  central 
station  which  has  no  industrial  power  load. 

15 


16  FUNDAMENTAL  FACTS 

It  is  also  a  most  promising  device  for  the  large  central  station 
which  must  cope  with  the  growing  problem  of  increasing  gross 
earnings  with  little  additional  capital  investment.  See  Range 
Revenue^  page  18  and  19. 

Investment*  The  range  requires  little  new  equipment  if  the 
system  is  not  already  overloaded. 

The  overload  capacities  of  transformers  and  meters  and  the 
excellent  diversity  factor  of  a  group  of  ranges  greatly  lessen  the 
cost  of  new  service  equipment  which  at  first  thought,  might  seem 
necessary  to  handle  the  increased  connected  load. 

Often  the  shifting  of  transformers  from  one  installation  to 
another  saves  the  purchase  of  new  ones.  Therefore  connections 
can  often  be  made  without  appreciable  increase  in  the  investment. 

The  added  expense  of  the  extra  meter  reading,  bookkeeping 
and  the  issuance,  delivery  and  collection  of  bills  is  so  small  it 
need  not  be  considered.     See  Investment  and  Return,  page  54. 

Load.  The  range  is  the  chief  domestic  load  builder — consum- 
ing from  300%  to  500%  more  current  than  any  other  house- 
hold device. 

It  is  used  three  times  a  day — ^365  days  in  the  year — Saturdays, 
Sundays,  holidays;  and  it  fills  the  week-day  noon  valleys  between 
eleven-thirty  and  one  o'clock. 

The  value  of  the  range  load  is  due  to  its  large  diversified 
daytime  consumption  of  current  which  not  only  means  an  ad- 
ditional 8  to  10  hours'  daily  use  of  the  residence  district  lines — 
which  are  practically  idle  for  about  20  of  the  24  hours — but  the 
sale  of  thousands  of  kilowatt  hours.  The  additional  generating 
cost  is  small  but  the  revenue  is  profitable. 

It  requires  little  increased  station  capacity  and  greatly  raises 


THE  RANGE  LOAD  17 


the  load  factor  and  therefore  promotes  the  efficiency  of  the 
whole  system.    See  Characteristics  of  the  Load,  page  55. 

Other  Advantages.  Electric  cookery  ties  residence  customers 
more  securely  to  a  utility  than  does  electric  lighting  because  it 
makes  them  more  dependent  upon  and  more  appreciative  of 
central  station  service. 

The  electric  range  makes  day  service  possible  and  immediately 
profitable  in  hundreds  of  small  non-manufacturing  communities. 
Thus  it  is  a  dependable  beginning  for  an  18  or  24  hour  service — 
and  it  paves  the  way  for  the  appliance  load. 

Introducing  electric  ranges  in  its  community  shows  that  the 
central  station  is  doing  its  part  in  the  conservation  of  fuel, 
fuel  transportation,  food,  labor  and  time  and  that  it  is  taking 
another  big  step  toward  the  economic  and  inevitable  centralized 
production  of  cooking  energy. 

The  establishing  of  a  rate  and  the  active  sale  of  ranges  not 
only  gives  a  central  station  the  valuable  prestige  of  being  in  step 
with  the  wonderful  electrical  developments  in  this  country,  but 
it  promotes  good-will  and  creates  the  impression  of  stability  and 
constructive  progress  which  becomes  a  tangible  asset  for  the 
utility  when  new  bond  issues  and  good -will  propaganda  are 
launched. 

THE  GREAT  national  demand  of  the  day 
is  for  ''conservation/'  The  electric 
range  can  conserve  more  food,  fuel 
and  labor  than  any  other  household  device. 
In  the  United  States  last  year,  132,000,000 
tons  of  coal  were  used  for  domestic  pur- 
poses. Millions  of  tons  could  be  saved  if 
every  home  cooked  electrically.  The  saving 
in  the  shrinkage  of  food  would  be  enor- 
mous— likewise  the  saving  in  work  and  time 
because  of  the  millions  of  people  employed 
in  preparing  food. 


Range  Compared  with  Appliances 

Based  on  Averages.  The  yearly  revenue  of  the  range  proves  it 
is  the  most  profitable  domestic  device  for  the  Electrical  Industry. 
As  all  things  should  be  judged  by  the  law  of  averages,  isolated 
facts,  selected  figures  and  individual  opinions  have  been  avoided 
and  the  following  figures  averaged  from  reports  of  a  number  of 
representative  central  stations.  The  rate  of  $.084  is  the  weighted 
average  for  electric  light  and  $.0325  the  average  cooking  rate 
throughout  the  United  States  today. 


Annual 

Annual 

Appliances 

Kw-hr,  Consumption 

Rate 

Revenue 

RANGE 

1,500 

$.0325 

$48.75 

Iron 

67 

.084 

5.63 

Cleaner 

25 

.084 

2.10 

Washer 

20 

.084 

1.68 

Toaster 

37.5 

.084 

3.15 

Percolator 

42 

.084 

3.53 

Fan 

31 

.084 

2.60 

Radiator 

96 

.084 

8.06 

Grill 

34 

.084 

2.86 

$29.61 

With  Range 

48.75 

$78.36 

Note  that  the  total  average  revenue  of  all  these  popular  house- 
hold devices  is  less  than  $30  and  that  of  the  range  alone  is  nearly 
$50.  For  an  idea  of  the  revenue  being  derived  today,  note  that 
the  gross  revenue  from  the  ranges  on  the  lines  of  just  100  central 
stations  (in  the  compilation  in  the  back  of  the  book)  is  about 
$1,250,000  a  year. 

18 


RANGE  COMPARED  WITH  APPLIANCES 


19 


$  so 


This  chart  graphically  illustrates  the  great  difference  between  the  annual 

revenue  of  the  electric  range  as  compared  with  the  annual  revenue  of  the 

popular  household  appliances. 


Cooking  Rates 

General  Discussion.  By  good  salesmanship,  the  central  sta- 
tion can  secure  range  business  even  where  high  rates  have  been 
established.  But  such  business  will  generally  be  confined  to  the 
wealthy  class  which  usually  has  dinner  at  night.  Thus  will  a 
portion  of  the  load  come  on  the  peak.  On  the  other  hand,  if 
lower  rates  justify  the  use  of  the  range  by  all  classes,  the  diversity 
factor  is  very  favorable  and  the  business  becomes  a  valuable  one. 
While  local  conditions  must  determine  the  rate  which  is  econ- 


20  FUNDAMENTAL  FACTS 

omically  wise  in  each  instance,  it  should  be  borne  in  mind  in 
deciding  on  a  rate  that  a  wide  introduction  of  ranges  will  tend 
to  distribute  overhead  charges  over  a  longer  period  of  the  twenty- 
four  hours.  The  returns  which  The  Society  for  Electrical  Devel- 
opment have  received  show  that  in  many  instances  central 
stations  which  have  started  with  a  5  cent  rate  have  been  so  well 
pleased  with  the  result  of  the  business  secured  that  they  have 
lowered  the  rate  to  4  or  3  cents  and  in  some  instances  even  lower, 
in  order  to  get  more  of  this  desirable  load  on  their  lines. 

In  addition  to  the  advisability  of  a  low  rate,  there  is  the  need 
for  a  rate  that  can  be  understood  by  the  average  person.  In 
many  rates  which  are  based  on  the  number  of  rooms,  the  area 
and  demand  are  so  complicated  that  they  tend  to  create  the 
impression  of  discrimination.  While  there  is  doubtless  a  defense 
for  every  system,  the  simpler  the  form  that  can  be  adopted 
the  easier  it  will  be  for  the  Sales  Department. 

A  three-step  rate  has  been  inaugurated  by  a  number  of  com- 
panies, with  the  plan  of  using  only  one  meter,  thus  saving 
expense  in  meter  installation  as  well  as  in  cost  of  reading  and 
billing.  The  first  step  of  15  to  25  kw-hrs.  is  estimated  to  take 
care  of  the  lighting  service  at  regular  rates;  the  second  or  inter- 
mediate, of  the  appliance  load;  the  third,  a  very  low  rate,  covers 
the  range  business.  This  rate  while  not  as  simple  as  some,  has 
points  that  appeal  to  the  public  and  are  fair  to  the  central  station. 

When  a  separate  meter  is  used  the  Boston  rate  is  excellent,  10 
kw-hrs.  at  10  cents  (which  insures  a  minimum  of  $1.00  a  month), 
then  2  cents  per  kw-hr.  for  all  in  excess.  A  flat  rate  for  the  range 
in  undesirable  as  it  leads  to  an  unreasonable  use  of  current.  One 
company  reports  an  average  consumption  on  flat  rate  of  4,800 
kw-hrs.  a  year  and  only  1,200  kw-hrs.  when  meters  are  installed. 
On  the  other  hand,  a  flat  rate  seems  desirable  when  electricity  is 


COOKING  RATES  21 


used  for  water  heating,  the  amount  to  depend  on  the  size  of 
the  heating  unit.  The  simultaneous  use  of  range  and  heater 
may  be  avoided  by  the  installation  of  a  double-throw  switch. 

Various  Forms  of  Rates.  Many  different  forms  of  rates  have 
been  devised  to  meet  the  range  load.  Six  companies  on  the  Paci- 
fic Coast  have  each  adopted  entirely  different  rate  systems,  but 
each  one  gives  identical  results  when  figured  on  the  basis  of  a 
monthly  consumption  of  125  kw-hrs.  for  cooking,  or  where  com- 
bined rate  is  used,  taking  20  kw-hrs.  as  the  lighting  load. 
No.  1.  Rate  3.6c.  net. 

No.  2.  Rate  4c.— 10%  discount  10  days.       Effective  Rate  3.6c. 

No.  3.  Combined  Rate:   1st  30  kw-hrs.  per  month  7c. 

Excess  33/^c.  Effective  Rate  3.6c. 

No.  4.  1st  50  kw-hrs.  per  connected  kw  at  4c.  per  kw-hr. 
Next  50  kw-hrs.  "        "  "  "    2c.  per  kw-hr. 

Excess  iKc. 

Connected  load  figured  as  100%  for  the  first  2  kw-hr  and 
50%  of  remainder. 

Effective  Rate  3.6c. 

No.  5.   1st  40  kw-hrs.  at  5c. 

Excess  3c.  Effective  Rate  3.6c. 

No.  6.  1st  25  kw-hrs.  at  5c. 

Next  25  kw-hrs.  at  4c. 

Excess  3c. 

Discount  5%  Effective  Rate  3.6c. 

In  view  of  this  uniformity  of  return,  rate  No.  3,  which  is  a  com- 
bined rate  for  all  uses  of  electricity  in  the  home  is  advantageous 
as  the  installation  requires  only  one  meter  and  one  billing. 


22  FUNDAMENTAL  FACTS 

In  order  to  insure  the  use  of  the  range  during  the  twelve 
months  of  the  year,  the  Central  Station  may  find  it  desirable  to 
require  a  monthly  minimum  especially  where  a  separate  meter  is 
installed.  One  dollar  is  probably  too  low;  two  dollars  possibly 
too  high.  The  compromise  that  is  fair  to  both  utility  and  con- 
sumer is  to  charge  twenty-four  dollars  a  year.  This  does  not 
penalize  the  customer  who  is  away  from  home  for  a  brief  period 
during  summer  or  winter.  ^i 

Central  Station  Man's  Opinion.  Mr.  R.  S.  Hale  of  the  Edi- 
son Electric  Illuminating  Company  of  Boston,  in  response  to  an 
inquiry  on  the  subject  of  range  rates,  has  expressed  himself  as 
follows : 

*'My  own  position  is  that  we  should  base  our  argument  on  the 
combination  of  the  two  rates. 

For  instance,  that  a  lighting  rate  of  ten  cents  without  any 
cooking  might  pay. 

That  a  cooking  rate  of  say  3  cents  without  any  Hghting  would 
not  pay. 

That  a  lighting  rate  of  3  cents  would  not  pay. 

On  the  other  hand,  that  a  rate  of  9  cents  for  lighting  and  3 
cents  for  cooking  would  pay,  and  would  be  to  the  advantage  of 
both  the  customer  and  the  central  station. 

Supposing  you  were  considering  the  lighting  business  alone, 
you  have  to  put  in  feeders,  mains,  service,  transformers,  etc. 
and  then  supply  the  current. 

Supposing  the  lighting  rate  is  10  cents:  No  one  will  do  any 
cooking  at  this  rate.  The  result  is  that  the  income  from  the 
lighting  business  has  to  pay  all  the  expenses. 

Now,  however,  suppose  you  put  in  a  cooking  rate  that  is  not 
higher  than  the  traffic  will  bear,  as  for  instance  a  3  cent  rate: 
The  result  is  that  you  get  the  cooking  business. 

The  additions  to  the  expenses  are  for  coal  and  also,  provided 
the  cooking  peak  comes  at  the  same  time  as  the  lighting  peak 


COOKING  RATES  23 


(as  it  frequently  does)  some  additional  generating  expenses  at 
the  station. 

The  additional  investment  at  the  station  does  not,  however, 
cost  anything  near  as  much  as  the  initial  investment. 

Further,  when  you  come  to  distribution  the  addition  of  the  cook- 
ing load  does  not  require  any  increase  in  the  poles,  cross  arms, 
etc.,  and  only  requires  a  very  slight  addition  to  the  copper. 

It  is  obvious,  therefore,  that  adding  a  cooking  load  to  the  lighting 
load  will  not  cost  anything  like  as  much  as  the  cost  of  the  lighting 
load  alone. 

If  taking  on  additional  kilowatt  hours  for  a  cooking  load  costs 
only  1 3^c  each,  and  you  can  get  an  income  of  3  cents  each,  the 
additional  profit  will  be  a  net  gain  to  the  central  station,  enabling 
it  ultimately  to  reduce  the  lighting  rate. 

The  only  way  to  get  this  is  to  quote  a  rate  for  the  cooking  not 
higher  than  the  traffic  will  bear. 

It  is,  of  course,  essential  to  be  sure  that  the  cooking  rate  is  high 
enough  to  return  a  profit  over  and  above  the  added  expenses  in- 
curred in  supplying  it. 

You  will  note  that  this  theory  justifies  a  cooking  load  entirely 
irrespective  of  the  load  factor,  diversity  factor,  demand  factor, 
etc. 

In  practice,  however,  there  is  some  diversity  between  the  cook- 
ing and  lighting,  cooking  and  power,  etc.,  and  this  makes  the 
cooking  even  more  profitable. 

The  essential  point,  however,  is  that  the  cooking  rate  must  be 
low  enough  to  get  the  business.    ' 

The  cooking  rate  need  not  be  figured  on  the  same  basis  as  the 
lighting  rate,  provided  the  income  from  the  cooking  is  enough 
to  take  care  of  the  added  expense. 

In  case  there  is  a  margin,  the  cooking  rate  should  approach  the 
upper  limit,  and  should  be  kept  right  up  to  the  amount  of  what 
the  traffic  will  bear,  because  the  fact  that  it  might  be  possible  to 
supply  cooking  at  a  still  lower  rate  is  no  reason  why  the  cooking 
customers  should  get  the  advantage. 

When  the  combination  of  the  cooking  and  lighting  rate  increases 
the  income  to  the  company  more  than  the  increase  in  expense, 


24  FUNDAMENTAL  FACTS 

then  all  the  customers  of  the  company  should  be  entitled  to  share 
in  this  advantage  and  not  the  cooking  customers  alone. 

So  much  for  the  theory  on  which  we  justify  the  cooking  rate  to 
ourselves.  If  you  will  think  of  it,  it  is  exactly  the  same  principle 
on  which  we  make  the  power  rate  lower  than  the  lighting  rate  in 
in  the  cases  where  the  load  factor  and  time  of  use  of  the  two 
customers,  power  and  light,  are  the  same. 

Justification  of  Cooking  Rate 

Public  Service  Commission  Rulings.  The  various  state 
public  utilities  commissions  of  the  United  States  have  never 
refused  permission  to  a  central  station  to  establish  a  low  cooking 
rate — a  rate  far  below  the  domestic  lighting  charge  and  ofttimes 
lower  than  the  rate  to  small  power  consumers. 

The  justification  of  this  low  charge  is  well  expressed  in  the 
rulings  of  the  rate-governing  bodies.  In  selecting  decisions  which 
would  be  representative  of  their  general  attitude  toward  the  cook- 
ing rate,  the  following  excerpts  were  chosen  from  certain  reports 
of  the  commissions  of  Illinois  and  Oregon. 

These  decisions  were  selected  because  of  the  experience  of  these 
commissions  with  range  rates  under  opposite  conditions.  Water 
power  predominates  in  Oregon,  steam  generation  in  Illinois. 
Both  states  are  centers  of  great  range  activity  and  localities 
where  the  low  rate  for  cookery  has  proved  its  legitimacy  and  its 
necessity  to  central  station  development. 

An  Illinois  Decision.  The  first  quotation  is  from  the  Illinois 
Commission's  report  of  the  case  of  Risser  &  Rollins,  Paxton  vs. 
The  Central  Illinois  Utilities  Company,  July  1916: 

"First — The  heating  and  cooking  load  in  the  city  of  Paxton  does 
not  occur  at  the  time  of  either  the  daily  or  yearly  station  peak, 
which  presents  advantages  to  the  company  in  that  it  is  better 


JUSTIFICATION  OF  COOKING  RATE  25 

enabled  to  utilize  to  advantage  its  investment  in  generating 
capacity. 

Second — Since  a  large  portion  of  the  company's  investment  is 
represented  by  distribution  circuits  serving  residence  consumers 
and,  since  with  only  a  lighting  load  being  handled  from  these 
distribution  circuits,  the  same  are  unused  for  a  large  portion  of 
the  day,  a  service  such  as  the  heating  and  cooking  service  herein 
considered,  which  furnishes  a  load  for  these  residential  distri- 
bution circuits  during  the  daytime,  enables  the  company  to 
utilize  to  advantage  an  investment  which  would  otherwise  lie 
dormant  during  eighteen  or  twenty  hours  of  every  day. 

Third — Customers  for  the  heating  and  cooking  service  are  us- 
ually not  new  customers  of  the  company  but  are  already  receiv- 
ing lighting  service,  which  means  that  they  are  already  provided 
with  a  service  connection  and  transformer  which  will  at  least  par- 
tially satisfy  the  requirements  for  heating  and  cooking  service. 

Fourth — The  cooking  rate  in  force  by  the  respondent  has  been 
found  by  experience  to  be  as  high  a  rate  as  can  be  secured  for 
this  service  which  is  in  direct  competition  with  other  means  of 
cooking,  such  as  coal,  gas  and  gasoline. 

Fifth — ^Particularly  in  the  smaller  communities,  where  little 
manufacturing  exists,  the  only  hope  which  can  be  seen  for  re- 
ducing the  rates  for  general  service  lies  in  the  development  of 
heating  and  cooking  business  and,  if  this  business  can  be  secured 
at  a  rate  sufficient  to  meet  the  actual  added  expense  which  it 
throws  upon  the  utility,  plus  a  small  margin  of  profit,  the  effect 
upon  the  general  business  of  the  company  will  be  to  enable  it  to 
transact  its  business  as  a  whole  at  a  lower  cost  per  kilowatt-hour, 
which  will  naturally  be  reflected  in  the  rates  for  general  electric 
service  tending  to  effect  a  reduction  of  the  same. 

In  consideration  of  this  sort  it  must,  of  course,  be  realized 
that  theory  must  in  many  cases  give  way  to  practice.  The  theo- 
retically ideal  situation  would  exist  if  each  class  of  service  paid 
its  proportionate  share  of  the  cost  of  doing  business,  plus  its  pro- 
portionate share  of  the  profits  to  be  realized  upon  the  investment. 
In  many  cases,  however,  if  this  theory  were  strictly  followed. 


26  FUNDAMENTAL  FACTS 

the  business  of  the  company  and  the  actual  best  interests  of  the 
consumers  would  suffer  materially  in  that  rates  would  be  devel- 
oped which  would  be  so  high  that  they  would  not  attract  the 
class  of  business  to  which  they  are  applicable." 

An  Oregon  Decision.  This  second  extract  is  from  a  decision 
made  by  the  Oregon  PubHc  Service  Commission  in  the  case  of 
the  City  of  Grants  Pass  et  al.  vs.  CaUfornia-Oregon  Power  Co., 
July  1917: 

With  the  high  class  business  attached  to  the  system  at  rates 
reasonable  in  comparison  with  the  value  of  the  service  given 
therefor,  additional  service  may  be  extended  to  other  use  at 
lower  rates — necessarily  less  on  account  of  the  lower  value  of 
the  service — which  may  approach,  but  should  in  no  case  go 
below,  the  actual  additional  cost  of  providing  that  service.  The 
acquisition  of  such  business,  especially  if  it  be  served  by  facilities 
already  used  for  other  purposes,  and  at  a  time  when  such  facilities 
are  idle,  may  be  accomplished  at  rates  considerably  above  the 
additional  cost  incurred  and  under  such  conditions  will  tend  to 
decrease  the  average  unit  cost  of  energy  to  all  classes  previously 
served.  Low  value  business  thus  becomes  an  attractive  asset,  and 
its  promotion,  under  these  conditions,  a  benefit  to  all  consumers. 
This  appears  to  us  to  be  a  fundamental  principle  in  the  develop- 
ment of  utility  business,  and  one  which,  if  neglected,  may  retard 
the  progress  of  any  enterprise. 

Proper  consideration  must  also  be  given  to  the  distinction  be- 
tween costs  incident  to  customers,  as  such,  those  attached 
directly  to  the  quantity  of  product  delivered  and  fixed  costs  or 
those  such  as  interest,  etc.,  which  occur  without  regard  to  thie 
volume  of  product  delivered  by  a  given  plant  or  the  number  of 
customers  connected  thereto.  The  latter  group  especially  in 
hydro-electric  operations  comprise  a  large  percentage  of  total 
annual  cost  of  service  and  its  equitable  distribution  among  con- 
sumers, together  with  proper  consideration  of  purely  customer 
costs  is  a  prime  necessity  if  the  rate  is  to  be  satisfactory  to  the 
consumer  and  at  the  same  time  produce  the  desired  return. 


JUSTIFICATION  OF  COOKING  RATE 


27 


fORKSPS 


.%- 


Over  66(30  Home  Snwm,  Holders  ' 


Attractive  window  display  of  the  Northern  States  Power  Co.,  Minneapolis, 

the  object  of  which  was  to  create  interest  in  Customer  Ownership  and 

further  the  sale  of  the  company* s  stock.    Note  that  payments  were  as  low 

as  $5  a  month. 

Diversity  factors  in  individual  installations  and  between  classes 
of  consumers,  and  also  probable  load  factors  enter  into  rate 
making  to  a  degree  which  precludes  discussion  at  this  time. 

Financing  Extensions 

Methods.  Among  the  methods  of  financing  extensions  are  two 
popular  plans :  One  is  to  have  the  customer  pay  for  the  exterior 
wiring  and  other  necessary  expense  and  return  the  money  to  him 
by  remitting  a  portion  of  the  monthly  bill  until  the  whole  amount 
is  repaid.  The  other  plan  is  to  sell  securities  in  small  lots  to  cus- 
tomers. Three  successful  plans  which  are  now  in  operation  by 
three  large  central  stations  are  outlined  here.  Customer  Owner- 
ship is  also  described. 


THE  ILLUMINATING  COMPANY 

CONSUMER'S  CHARGE  APPLICATION 

FOR  COMMERCIAL  LOADS  IN  EXCESS  OF  5-KW.  CAPACITY 

Applies  in  any  instance  where  the  company  is  required  to  make  an  expenditure  for  the  installation  or  construction  of  the 
following: 
SWITCHING  APPARATUS: 

For  additional  or  specific  switch  gear,  meters,  instrumenta,  panels,  frames,  control,  cables  and  buses,  connections  and 
transformers,  in  switch  houses  or  substations. 
SUBWAY: 

For  additional  or  specific  subway  from  generating  plant  to  substation,  from  substation  to  consumer's  premises,  from 
generating  plant  to  consumer's  premises,  or  from  substation  to  substation,  or  from  substation  to  point  of  feeding  overhead 
line,  or  from  existing  distribution  system  to  consumer's  premises. 
CABLE: 

For  additional  or  specific  transmission  or  distribution  cable  from  generating  plant  to  substation,  froni  substation  to  con- 
sumer's premises,  from  generating  plant  to  consumer's  premises,  or  from  substation  to  substation,  or  from  substation  to  point 
of  feeding  overhead  line,  or  from  existing  distribution  system  to  consumer's  premises. 
OVERHEAD  LINES— LINE  EXTENSIONS: 

For  additional  or  specific  overhead  Ijnes,  including  poles  or  towers,  with  necessary  and  usual  equipment,  wire,  lightning 
arresters,  line  switches,  ground  wires  or  connections,  or  for  any  work  on  existing  poles  or  towers,  with  all  the  attendant  equip- 
ment as  aforesaid,  for  increasing  the  existing  distribution  system  or  transmitting  direct  to  consumer's  premises. 
TRANSFORMERS: 

For  any  step-up  or  step-down  transformers  located  in  switch  houses,  substations,  line  houses  or  other  sl,ructure8,  not 
otherwise  specified. 
SERVICE  ON  CONSUMER'S  PREMISES; 

For  the  installation  of  poles,  towers,  lines,  ducts,  cables  and  vaults;  also,  where  the  transformer  capacity  to  be  installed 
exceeds  50  kw.,  for  the  transformers  and  switches  required;  and  for  special  transformers  of  50  kw.  capacity  or  less. 


Name. , 


Date. 


.191. 


Premises 

The  undersigned  hereby  makes  application  to  The  Cleveland  Electric  Illuminating  Company  to  install  or  construct,  at  the 
expense  of  the  applicant,  the  following  described  work: 

The  above  work  is  to  supply kw.  line  capacity  to  the  above  premises,  which  capacity  the  company  agrees 

to  hold  and  reserve  to  the  use  of  the  applicant  for  ten  years  from  the  commencement  of  supply,  subject  to  federal,  state,  county, 
township  or  municipal  regulation. 

1.  The  applicant  deposits  herewith  the  sum  of . .  > dollars  (f ), 

which  is  the  estimated  cost  of  the  above  work,  upon  the  understanding  that  the  work  constructed  shall  at  all  times 
be  and  remain  the  property  of  the  Illuminating  Company. 

2.  Refund  to  the  amount  of dollars  ($ ),  which  is  the  estimated  cost  of 

the  above  described  work  as  of  July  1,  1914,  and  hereinafter  called  the  normal  cost,  will  be  made  to  the  applicant, 
subject  to  the  terms  and  conditions  hereinafter  specified: 

(a)  on  the  current  taken  and  used  by  the  applicant  from  the  work  constructed  under  this  apphcation;  and 

(b)  in  addition,  on  the  current  taken  and  used  by- other  consumers  connected  to  the  hne  or  lines  constructed  under  this 
application,  except  where  the  work  constructed  consists  of  feeders  or  an  addition  to  the  network  in  the  general  distribij- 
tion  system  of  the  company,  in  which  event  refund  to  the  applicant  will  be  made  only  on  the  current  used  by  those 
consumers  who  are  connected  to  that  part  of  the  work  specifically  constructed  for  the  appUcant  which  extends  beyond 
the  network  in  the  general  distribution  system  of  the  company;  provided,  however,  that  in  no  case  shall  the  amount 
refunded  to  the  applicant  on  the  current  used  by  any  such  consumer  exceed  the  normal  cost  of  that  portion  of  the 
work  constructed  which  is  useful  in  serving  such  consumer. 

3.  The  amount  to  be  refunded  to  the  applicant  shall  be  based  upon  the  current  taken  and  used  within  ten  years  after 
commencement  of  supply,  but  the  total  amount  of  the  refund  shall  not  exceed  the  normal  cost  of  the  work  herein 
applied  for. 

4.  The  refund  will  be  computed  at  a  rate  per  unit  as  deterAiined  by  the  following  formula: 

dollars 

Refund  rate  per  kilowatt  hour  = 

36000  X  contracted  kilowatt  demand 
The  sum  of  money  in  the  above  formula  is  the  normal  cost  of  the  above-described  work.    The  refund  will  be  paid  by  the 
company  to  the  applicant  annually,  subject  to  the  conditions  herein  stated. 

The  kilow.itt  demand  in  the  above  formula  is  the  capacity  contracted  for  herein  and  reserved  to  the  use  of  the  applicant 
by  the  company. 

5.  No  refund  or  interest  shall  be  paid  unle.ss  the  applicant's  bills  for  current  have  been  paid  in  full;  nor  shall  any  annual 
refund  payment  exceed  fifty  per  cent  (50%)  of  the- sum  of  the  bills  for  the  current  taken  and  used  within  the  refund 
period  from  the  work  constructed  under  this  application  as  herein  provided. 

6.  The  company  reserves  the  right  to  refund  at  any  time  all  or  any  part  of  the  unrefunded  portion  of  the  normal  cost  of 
the  specified  work. 

7  No  refund  nor  interest  Ayhatsoever  will  be  allowed  on  the  excess  cost  of  the  specified  work,  which  excess  is  the 
difference  between  the  normal  cost  and  the  amount  deposited. 

8.  Interest,  not  exceeding  six  per  cent  (6%)  per  annum,  will  be  paid  by  the  company  to  the  applicant  annOally,  upon  the 
balance  of  the  normal  cost  held  at  that  time  and  subject  to  be  refuncled  as  herein  provided.  The  annual  rate  of  mterest 
will  be  computed  by  the  formula: 

Rate  =  6/10  of  l%Xaverage  hours  use  per  day  of  the  contracted  kilowatt  demand. 
The  hours'  use  per  day  of  the  kilowatt  demand  in  the  above  formula  shall  be  determined  by  dividing  the  monthly  average 
of  the  kilowatt-hours  upon  which  refund  is  allowed  by  thirty  (30)  times  the  demand  contracted  for  herem. 

9.  The"  interest  and  refund  periods  will  be  considered  as  terminating  on  the  first  day  of  February  of  each  year,  and  pay- 
ments shall  be  made  to  the  applicant,  as  above  provided  for,  upon  the  tenth  day  of  the  same  month. 


Canvassed . 


Signed . 


Deposit  Receipt  No 

All  quotatidns  made  under  this  application  are  subject  to  change  without  notice. 

All  work  to  be  performed  is  subject  to  delays  due  to  receipt  of  material,  strikes  or  labor  shortage. 


FINANCING  EXTENSIONS  29 

Pacific  Plan.  The  Pacific  Power  and  Light  Company,  Portland, 
Oregon,  requires  an  estimated  annual  revenue  from  the  instal- 
lation of  50%  of  the  cost  of  the  line — before  building  an  exten- 
sion. The  company  arrived  at  this  figure  by  referring  to  a  report 
of  the  Public  Service  Commission  of  Washington  on  the  valuation, 
earnings,  etc.  of  the  company  made  in  1914  and  1915.  This  report 
shows  that  the  company  has  invested  47.8  percent  in  station 
equipment,  15.3  percent  in  transmission  lines,  5.8  percent  in 
sub -stations  and  28.2  percent  in  distribution  lines.  For  every 
dollar  invested,  the  gross  earnings  amounted  to  14  cents  and  net 
earnings  to  6.5  cents.  In  other  words,  the  net  earnings  were  6.5 
percent  of  the  investment. 

With  these  figures  in  mind,  the  company  reasoned  as  follows: 
Assuming  6.5  percent  as  adequate  rate  of  return,  gross  earnings 
of  14  cents  must  be  secured  on  every  dollar  of  total  investment 
of  which  28.2  cents  is  in  transmission  lines.  Conversely  then, 
with  every  28.2  cents  in  transmission  lines,  gross  earnings  must 
amount  to  49.6  cents — and  an  income  of  50  cents  on  every  dollar 
invested  in  distribution  lines  must  be  demanded.  These  figures 
of  course  do  not  make  allowance  for  depreciation. 

Utah  Plan.  The  Range  Load  Rebate-Contract  form  used  by  the 
Utah  Power  &  Light  Company,  Salt  Lake  City,  is  illustrated  here 
and  is  self-explanatory.  This  form  can  be  adopted  by  the 
majority  of  companies.  Permission  is  hereby  granted  to  anyone 
by  the  Utah  Company. 

Cleveland  Plan.  The  Cleveland  Electric  Illuminating  Company 
of  Cleveland,  Ohio  is  one  of  the  pioneer  utilities  in  the  financing 
of  line  extensions  by  customers.  The  form  used  by  this  company 
is  reproduced  on  the  opposite  page  and  may  be  used  verbatim 
by  any  central  station. 


30  FUNDAMENTAL  FACTS 


UTAH  POWER  &  LIGHT  COMPANY 

RECEIPT 

ON  LINE  EXTENSION  FOR  ELECTRIC  SERVICE 

; 191 

Received  from herein  called  the  "Consumer." 

I as  an  advance  to  apply  on  the  cost  of  extending  this  Company's  line  to  serve  the  Consumer's 

premises   at   No •     «^der   appUcation   for   service 

No 

Said  advance  will  be  repaid  to  the  consumer:     .      .,     ,        ,       ,  ,,  ,       ,,     ,    ,  ,       t  l-u  •       -j 

(a)  One-third  of  each  monthly  bill  for  service  furmshed  at  the  above  address,  when  the  balance  of  such  bill  is  paid: 

(b)  As  users  of  this  Company's  service  at  other  premises  on  the  above  extension  shall  contract  for  service,  this 
Company  will  re-pay  to  the  Consumer,  $20.00,  less  the  cost  of  making  connection,  for  each  lighting  customer  connected 
to  the  extension,  and  $30.00,  less  the  cost  of  making  connection  for  each  electric-range  customer  to  the  extension  until  the 
total  of  such  payments  under  this  and  the  preceding  paragraph  shall  equal  the  amount  of  the  above  advance,  without  interest. 

The  obligation  to  repay  shall  cease  in  any  event  if,  and  whenever  service  at  the  above  address  shall  be  permanently 
discontmued.  ^^^^  POWER  &  LIGHT  COMPANY. 

By 

Sales  Manager. 

The  foregoing  receipt  correctly  recites  the  conditions  under  which  the  deposit  therein  mentioned  has  been  made. 

Consumer. 


II 


Range   load  rebate-contract   form   for  line  extensions  used  by  the  Utah 
Power  &  Light  Co.,  Salt  Lake  City.     This  is  another  method  of  securing 
the  customer* s  financial  co-operation  with   the  utility. 


Customer  Ownership.    An  increasing  number  of  the  repre- 
sentative public  utility  companies  in  America  are  selling  secur- 
ities to  their  customers  in  small  lots  today.     This  resume  of  ■ 
Customer  Ownership  will  prove   interesting  to  executives  who 
have  not  studied  the  plan. 

Customer  Ownership  has  been  introduced  because  it  is  an 
excellent  builder  of  good-will  which  is  very  essential  in  the 
satisfactory  operation  of  a  utility.  As  the  question  of  securing 
additional  capital  is  paramount  today  with  the  majority  of 
central  stations,  selling  securities  locally  is  one  of  the  best  sol- 
utions of  the  problem. 

Excellent  Investment.  Central  stations  which  have  introduced 
this  plan  found  that  customers  owning  stock  are  more  appreci- 
ative of  the  service  and  also  better  prospects  for  additional  ap- 
pliances. 


Must  he  pixjvifM  to  make  every  aMMe  used  inwar 


_.. .  .  WA\y 

J' 

Invest  Soundly  in  Essential  Industries 

Supplying  the  Vital  Necessities  of  Power,  Light  and  Heat 

Our  7%  Preferred  Stockis  Now  a  Most  Popular  Investment  in  This  City 

THE  Comptroller  of  the  Currency  of  the  United  States  ever  before.     The  stability  of  these  industries— the  steady 

— John  Skelton  Williams — says — "The  continued  and  demand  for  their  services  in  war  and  peace — the  continuous 

increasing  efficiency  of  these  corporations  is  import-  growth  in  business  year  after  year — combine  to  make  this 

ant  for  the  successful  conduct  of  the  war."  investment  most  attractive. 

Public  utility  companies  require  additional  capital  in  order  to  Diridend  checks  are  mailed  to  your  address  regularly  every 

meet  the  urgent  demands  for  service  now  pressing  upon  them.  three  months.     The  Company  pays  the  normal  federal  income 

Thii  situation  is  your  opportunity  for  sound  and  profitable  tax. 

investment.  The  partial  payment  plan,  of  investing  in  our  Preferred  Stock, 

The  Preferred  Stock  of  our  Company  is  a  thoroughly  sound  is  being  utilized  by  many  to  save  and  invest  at  the  same 

investment — backed  by  modem  physical  property,    careful  time.    Five  dollars  per  share  a  month  makes  you  a  preferred 

and  progressive  management,  and  a  long  record  of  dividend-  partner. 

paying  success.  "The  Straight  Road  to  Financial  Independence:"  is  the  title 

A  large  number  of  our  customers  are  already  profit-sharing  of  a  booklet  we  have  distributed  to  our  customers.    Have  you 

partners  in  our  organization.     More  are  investing  now  than  read  your  copy?  It  is  worth  dollars  to  you. 

—  - -  — —  — I 

INQUIRY   COUPON  '        ^^^  ^^  touch  with  us  by  telephone  or  letter,  and 

\  learn  more  about  what  we  have  to  offer  you 

.1918        I 

NAME  OF  COMPANY  .  Telephone   Number 

Street  Address  ' 

Please  send  me  complete  information  regarding  your    •  _  —^  , 

nZ!""°"''°'  I        Name  of  Company 

s*^* I       Name  of  Manager  Street  Address 

City I 


Newspaper  advertisement  used  by  the  H.  M.  Bylleshy  Co.  in  their  campaign 

to  sell  preferred  stock.    Note  that  this  advertisement  is  supplemented  by  a 

booklet  **The  Straight  Road  to  Financial  Independence.** 


32  FUNDAMENTAL  FACTS 

Securities  in  public  utilities  are  excellent  investments  as: 

1.  The  earnings  are  stable  and  because  the  central  station 
supplies  a  necessity  of  community  life.  Therefore  it  is  practically 
independent  of  the  violent  fluctuations  in  general  business  con- 
ditions. 

2.  The  central  station  field  is  unlimited  for  the  further  develop- 
ment of  business  among  present  customers  in  addition  to  the 
enormous  growth  resulting  from  line  extensions  and  the  increase 
in  population. 

3.  They  are  protected  by  the  State  Public  Utilities  Commissions 
through  regulation  of  issues  of  securities  of  successful  public 
utility  companies. 

4.  A  higher  income  may  be  secured  through  investment  in 
carefully  selected  public  utilities  securities  than  can  be  secured 
by  investment  in  any  securities  of  equal  merit. 

Where  Inaugurated.  The  following  companies  are  among 
those  actively  promoting  Customer  Ownership: 

H.  M.  Byllesby  8b  Co.,  Chicago,  111.  including  Northern  States 
Power  Co.,  Minneapolis;  San  Diego  (Cal.)  Consolidated  Gas 
&  Electric  Co. ;  Oklahoma  Gas  &  Electric  Co. ;  Western  States 
Gas  &  Electric  Co.,  Stockton,  Cal.;  Louisville  (Ky.)  Gas  & 
Electric  Co. 

Mahoning  &  Shenango  Ry.  &  Lt.  Co.,  Youngstown,  Ohio. 

Pacific  Power  &  Light  Co.,  Portland,  Ore. 

Idaho  Power  Co.,  Boise,  Idaho. 

Union  Electric  Light  &  Power  Co.,  St.  Louis,  Mo. 

Consolidated  Gas,  Elec.  Lt.  &  Pr.  Co.,  Baltimore,  Md. 

Pacific  Gas  &  Electric  Co.,  San  Francisco,  Cal. 

One  Company' s  Offer.  ''To  any  customer  (or  employe),  we 
shall  sell  at  par,  $100  a  share,  in  ten  equal  monthly  payments, 
or  for  cash,  from  one  to  twenty  shares  of  the  Seven  Per  Cent 
Cumulative  Preferred  Stock  of  the  Mahoning  &  Shenango  Railway 
&  Light  Company  (Youngstown,  Ohio). 


FINANCING  EXTENSIONS  33 

"Ten  dollars  a  share  is  paid  at  the  time  of  subscription  and 
$10  a  share  on  or  before  the  10th  of  each  month  till  the  full  price 
has  been  paid. 

'* Interest  at  6  percent  per  annum  will  be  allowed  on  all  pay- 
ments till  the  final  payment  is  made,  when  the  investment  will 
begin  to  earn  7  percent. 

**  Payments  may  be  withdrawn  upon  reasonable  notice  at  any 
time  before  the  purchase  is  completed. 

''Your  subscription  will  be  received  at  any  office,  or  our  repre- 
sentative will  call  at  your  convenience.  Dividends  on  three  or 
four  shares  will  return  to  you,  each  year,  enough  to  pay  the 
average  residential  light  bill  for  a  year.'* 

The  Society's  Position.  The  Society  does  not  recommend  Cus- 
tomer Ownership  of  securities  for  every  community,  but  it  will 
put  any  central  station  man  in  immediate  possession  of  facts  and 
offer  suggestions  for  determining  courses  of  action. 

View  of  St.  Louis  Company.  James  D.  Mortimer,  President 
of  the  Union  Electric  Light  &  Power  Company  of  St.  Louis,  in 
discussing  various  problems  confronting  public  utilities,  has  said: 
"The  ideal  system  of  ownership  is  one  wherein  each  customer  has 
a  proprietary  interest  in  the  utility  in  proportion  to  the  service 
rendered  him.  This  we  are  endeavoring  to  formulate  through  our 
movement  to  sell  stock  to  customers.  We  believe  in  the  eventual 
mutual  ownership  of  public  utilities  as  the  best  from  the  stand- 
point of  the  customer's  and  from  every  social  and  economic  view. 
Such  a  movement  if  carried  to  the  possible  limit  would  greatly 
promote  community  and  individual  thrift  and  prevent  public 
utilities  from  serving  as  a  bone  of  contention  in  politics.  There 
would  then  be  no  demand  for  ownership  by  the  municipality, 
and  the  problems  of  regulation  would  comprise  only  those  of 
seeing  that  the  charges  for  services  were  equitably  distributed  as 
between  the  different  classes  of  customers." 


CHAPTER  II 

THE  ELECTRIC  RANGE 

Practicability  and  Supremacy 

Evolution  of  Cooking  Devices.    The  art  of  cookery  is  as  old 
as  history.    Its  development  measures  the  development  of  civil- 
ization.   And  in  the  evolution  of  its  methods,  the  generation 
appUcation  and  utilization  of  the  heat  has  kept  pace  with  th^ 
increased  cost  of  the  successive  fuels. 

The  first  cooking  was  done  on  a  large  flat  stone  heated  by  the 
sun.  The  cost  of  fuel  was  nil,  operation  undependable,  results 
poor.  The  next  method  was  the  open  fire  on  the  ground.  The 
results  were  better,  but  only  in  proportion  to  the  cost  of  the 
fuel  which  was  the  labor  of  gathering  the  wood.  And  so  on 
through  the  centuries  with  the  varied  uses  of  wood,  fuel  oil,  coal 
and  natural  and  artificial  gas,  the  cost  of  the  fuel  has  always 
been  on  a  par  with  its  utilization  and  the  cooking  results. 

Practicability.  Today  electricity  produces  the  best  and  ulti- 
mate heat  energy.  Its  dollar  and  cents  cost  is  sometimes  more 
than  fuel  heat  but  it  is  applied  and  conserved  so  scientifically 
that  the  electric  range  is  vastly  more  efficient  than  its  predecessor. 
Thus  its  cost  compares  favorably  with  fuel  heat. 

The  practicability  of  the  electric  range  lies  in  its  perfect  per- 
formance and  product.  Not  only  does  the  device  fit  in  with  the 
scientific  development  of  the  age  and  the  cleanliness  and  efficiency 

34 


PRACTICABILITY  AND  SUPREMACY  35 

of  the  home  but  it  is  the  only  stove  in  which  perfect  cookery  is 
accomplished  by  the  control  of  the  heat  instead  of  the  continuous 
basting,  shifting  and  stirring  of  the  food. 

Supremacy.  The  electric  range  stands  supreme  because  it  does 
not  have  the  disadvantages,  faults  and  inconveniences  of  the  fuel 
stove.  It  is  the  only  cooking  appliance  which  does  its  work  miles 
away  from  the  hot,  dirty  work  of  building,  lighting,  feeding  and 
watching  the  **fire''  and  cleaning-up  the  waste  material  of  the  fuel. 
The  range  does  not  dry -out,  bum  nor  over-cook  foods;  will 
not  soot  pots  nor  discolor  the  walls  and  woodwork;  cannot 
vitiate  the  air,  devitalize  the  housewife  nor  kill  the  plants;  does 
not  heat  the  kitchen  and  tend  to  melt  the  ice  in  summer;  will 
not  bum-in  grease  or  warp  the  pots  and  skillets  nor  does  the 
heat  fluctuate  or  is  it  affected  by  atmospheric  conditions.  More- 
over the  range  eliminates  the  use  of  matches  and  flame;  prevents 
the  danger  of  fire,  explosion  and  asphyxiation;  saves  fuel  storage 
space  and  is  the  biggest  factor  in  helping  keep  the  kitchen  as 
clean  as  any  other  room  in  the  house.  For  these  detailed  features 
see  Advantages  of  Electric  Range,  page  143. 

Construction  and  Price 

Individuality.  The  electric  range  is  as  radically  different  from 
the  fuel  range  as  the  $7  electric  iron  is  from  the  50  cent  sad  iron. 
Its  remarkable  effectiveness  is  secured  through  its  scientific 
design — the  result  being  made  possible  and  practicable  through 
the  medium  of  electric  heat  with  its  flameless,  sootless  and 
an  odorless  operation,  uniform  intensity  and  economic  utilization. 

General  Construction.  The  range  is  an  electrical  development 
— not  merely  an  improved  stove.    The  fundamentals  of  its  con- 


36 


THE  ELECTRIC  RANGE 


General  cabinet  type  electric  range 


struction  and  operation  are  based  and  dependent  on  the  scientific 
utilization  of  electric  heat. 

The  electric  ranges  on  the  market  today  are  as  strongly  made 
and  as  efficient  and  durable  in  service  as  the  sturdy  electric 
motor.  They  embody  only  the  best  electrical  and  mechanical 
construction,  are  attractive  in  appearance  and  designed  so  that 
all  parts  may  be  readily  cleaned  and  easily  repaired.  The  resis- 
tance wire  which  is  used  in  the  standard  makes  is  a  combination 
of  nickel  and  chromium — an  alloy  of  maximum  resistance  and 
minimum  oxidation. 


CONSTRUCTION  AND  PRICE 


37 


General    cabinet-type    electric    range    with 
broiler  and  warming  compartment. 


The  majority  of  manufacturers  employ  individual  fusing.  This 
means  each  surface  and  oven  unit  has  its  own  fuse  and  a  separate 
connection  to  the  main  line.  The  advantage  lies  in  their  inde- 
pendence. Should  trouble  occur,  the  entire  range  is  not  out  of 
service  and  the  cookery  may  be  continued  with  other  surface 
or  oven  units. 

This  is  an  advantage  that  would  be  greatly  appreciated  should 
trouble  occur  during  the  preparation  of  a  meal  on  a  Sunday  or 
holiday  when  repair  service  might  not  be  immediately  available. 

Each  standard  make  of  range  has  been  tested  and  approved 


38 


THE  ELECTRIC  RANGE 


General  type  of  low-oven 
electric  range. 


General    type    of    elevated- 
oven  electric  range. 


by  the  National  Board  of  Fire  Underwriters.  For  description  of 
this  organization  see  page  207. 

Oven.  Range  ovens  are  made  in  two  designs:  The  regular  type 
and  the  automatic  type.  The  difference  between  them  lies  in  the 
automatic,  thermostatic  control  of  the  latter  type  through  the 
medium  of  a  circuit  breaker. 

The  basic  design  of  the  electric  range  oven  incorporates  all  the 
good  points  and  omits  all  the  imperfections  of  both  the  fireless 
cooker  and  the  old-style  fuel  oven.  The  walls  are  thickly  packed 
with  a  heat-insulating  material  which  conserves  the  heat.    The 


CONSTRUCTION  AND  PRICE  39 

doors  fit  tightly  like  those  of  a  refrigerator.  All  the  best  makes 
have  an  oven  vent  of  a  scientific  character. 

The  ovens  usually  have  two  units — one  each  at  the  top  and 
bottom.  Some  oven  units  are  permanently  installed,  others 
easily  removable  which  facilitates  periodical  cleaning.  The 
standard  control  is  by  three-heat  switches. 

Surface  Units.  Surface  units  are  made  in  three  types:  En- 
closed-type,  reflector-type,  and  open-coil-type.  The  heat-move- 
ment principle  of  the  enclosed  type  is  Conduction ;  of  the  reflector 
type  Radiation;  of  the  open-coil-type.  Radiation  and  Conduc- 
tion— Conduction  when  the  cooking  vessel  comes  in  direct  con- 
tact with  the  heat -insulating  receptacle  of  the  unit.  For  des- 
cription of  these  principles  see  Electric  Heat,  page  51. 

The  enclosed  type  is  composed  of  resistance  wire  enclosed  within 
a  metal  plate.  The  reflector  type  consists  of  open  coils  of  wire 
held  in  position  by  an  insulated  frame  and  under  this  a  reflector 
with  a  highly  polished  surface.  With  this  type  of  unit,  the  utensil 
gets  both  direct  and  reflected  rays  of  heat.  The  open-coil  unit 
is  composed  of  coils  of  resistance  wire  fastened  in  grooves  of 
a  plate  made  of  heat-resisting  porcelain  or  composition. 

The  efficiencies  and  characteristics  of  these  three  types  cannot 
be  discussed  here.  It  is  foreign  to  the  plan  of  the  book.  All  three 
types  however  give  excellent  results  and  have  proven  to  be  satis- 
factory to  both  their  users  and  the  central  stations.  Each  type 
moreover  is  very  strongly  constructed  and  guaranteed  for  one 
year  from  date  of  purchase  by  user.  Standard  control  is  by 
three -heat  switches. 

Price.  The  average  electric  range  today  costs  considerably  more 
than  the  average  fuel  range  of  equal  cooking  capacity  because 
it  requires  approximately  100%  more  material  and  labor  in  its 


40  THE  ELECTRIC  RANGE 

construction.  It  contains  virtually  every  part  of  a  fuel  range  and 
in  addition  requires  surface  and  oven  electric  heating  units,  their 
costly  resistance  wire,  fireless  cooker  construction,  oven  insul- 
ation, switches,  fuses,  asbestos  lining,  terminals,  bushings,  con- 
necting wires  and  the  high-priced  skilled  labor  necessary  for  the 
assembling,  wiring  and  welding  of  the  many  electrical  parts. 

So  the  first  thing  a  salesman  should  do  is  to  realize  and  ^'sell" 
himself  on  its  careful  construction  and  the  ample  justification  of 
the  price.  A  trip  through  a  range  factory  would  forcibly  drive 
home  the  first  point  and  an  analysis  of  manufacturing  costs  would 
prove  the  second  one. 

A  few  central  station  men  look  at  the  seemingly  high  price  of 
the  electric  range  as  retarding  to  its  sales.  Others  do  not.  The 
question  is  an  arbitrary  one — depending  on  viewpoint — hut 
primarily  on  salesmanship  /  See  Selling  the  Electric  Cookery  Idea, 
page  128. 


DO  NOT  use  the  word  Burner  when  des- 
ignating a  surface  or  oven  unit. 
Webster's  Dictionary  defines  Burner 
as  **That  part  of  a  lamp  or  gas  fixture  where 
the  flame  is  produced."  To  the  average  per- 
son, Burner  implies  fire  and  flame.  The 
electric  range  is  without  fire  and  flame  and 
therefore  the  terms  Surface  Unit  and  Oven 
Unit  have  been  recommended. 


^ 


Operating  Cost  and  Economy 

Governing  Factors.  The  cost  of  operating  an  electric  range  is 
dependent  upon  so  many  factors  that  discussion  is  futile.  Elec- 
tric cooking  bills  vary  with  the  rate,  the  number  in  family,  the 
character  of  the  cooking  and  the  care  used  by  the  operator.  So 
the  way  to  estimate  its  cost  is  to  take  the  average  figure  for  the 
average  family  and  decrease  or  increase  this  in  proportion  to  the 
importance  of  the  governing  factors. 

Average  Figures.  The  average  consumption  is  125  kw-hrs.  a 
month.  The  average  rate  is  33^  cents  per  kw-hr.  The  average 
family  consists  of  4.2  persons.  The  average  monthly  bill  is 
$4.06>i  per  month. 

Four  and  two-tenths  persons  using  125  kw-hr.  in  thirty  days 
approximates  one  kilowatt-hour  per  person  per  day.  This  figure 
can  be  used  for  estimating  the  cost  for  a  family  of  four.  Another 
person  more  or  less  slightly  increases  or  decreases  the  consump- 
tion. Six  persons  do  not  consume  100%  more  current  than  three 
persons.  The  current  consumption  is  much  less  per  person  with 
the  increased  number  in  the  family. 

The  character  of  the  cooking  is  a  big  factor  in  the  bill.  If 
fancy  cooking  is  done — breads  and  pastries  baked  constantly 
and  soup  stocks  made  frequently — the  bill  for  current  will  of 
course  be  much  larger  than  for  a  family  which  prefers  simple 
cooking  and  buys  bread  and  pastry  from  a  local  bakery. 

The  cook  is  another  factor.  If  she  does  not  make  use  of  the 
conserved  heat,  does  not  turn  off  all  the  electricity  when  she  has 
finished  cooking  and  if  she  heats  water  several  times  a  day  for  tea, 
the  bill  will  greatly  exceed  the  one  next  door  where  the  housewife 
takes  advantage  of  every  opportunity  to  conserve  the  current. 

41 


42  THE  ELECTRIC  RANGE 

Economy  of  Operation.  The  price  of  the  range  and  the  cost 
of  operation  should  never  enter  into  a  sale  until  the  prospect  has 
been  thoroughly  sold  on  the  idea  and  the  advantages  of  electric 
cookery!  Then,  if  she  is  deterred  by  the  first  cost,  overcome  that 
obstacle  by  suggesting  the  small  monthly  payment  plan.  If  she 
thinks  the  slight  increase  in  the  cost  of  operation  is  not  justified, 
point  out  the  many  savings  which  are  worth  so  much  to  her  per 
month  and  which,  when  added  together,  will  make  the  monthly 
bill  seem  small  compared  with  the  value  received. 

For  example,  the  housewife  with  a  fuel  range  scrubs  the  soot 
from  10  pots  and  skillets  a  day — total  300  a  month.  The  saving 
of  this  work  and  time  is  worth  at  least  a  cent  a  time  per  pot — 
which  is  $3.  Moreover,  it  is  worth  so  much  per  month  to  be  rid 
of  the  constant  danger  of  fire,  explosion  and  asphyxiation;  so 
much  per  month  to  have  more  nourishing  and  juicier  foods. 
When  these  many  advantages  are  added  together  and  a  value 
placed  upon  them,  electric  cookery  becomes  the  most  inexpensive 
of  any  method  today.    See  Operating  Costs,  page  145. 

Its  Place  in  the  Home 

Modern  Homemaking.  Homemaking  is  a  profession  and  no 
other  occupation  in  the  world  compares  with  it — in  its  importance 
to  the  welfare  and  comfort  of  the  human  race,  physically,  men- 
tally, morally  and  financially. 

Today  home  management  and  domestic  science  are  recognized 
as  important  factors  in  a  woman's  education.  Not  only  are  there 
hundreds  of  home-economics  institutes  but  courses  on  the  sub- 
ject are  included  in  the  curriculums  of  the  majority  of  high 
schools  and  colleges.  Domestic  science  and  homemaking  sec- 
tions are  featured  also  in  national  women's  magazines  and  new 
books  on  the  subject  are  continually  being  published. 


OPERATING  COST  AND  ECONOMY 


43 


■  n  XI 


A  modern,  kitchen  of  1919— containing  an  electric  range,  white-porcelain 
refrigerator^  white-enamel  kitchen  cabinet,  white-enamel  dish  closet, 
porcelain-top  kitchen  table,  white-enamel  chair  and  stool,  percolator, 
scale  and  other  labor-saving  and  efficiency  appliances.  The  kitchen  of 
today  can  be   and   should    be  as   modernly  equipped  as  the  finest  office. 


So  the  housewife  of  today  is  learning  her  trade.  By  the  use  of 
many  domestic  labor-saving  devices,  she  is  able  to  modernize 
her  home,  do  better  work  in  less  time  and  even  reduce  her  daily 
household  expenses.  This  also  enables  her  to  cope  with  the  chang- 
ing social  conditions :  The  permanent  scarcity  and  high  wages  of 
servants,  the  increased  price  of  food,  clothes  and  home  neces- 
sities and  the  demands  on  her  time  for  social  duties,  charities 
and  other  work. 

Conveniences.  The  modern  home  has  generally,  a  telephone, 
electric  light,  a  scientifically-made  refrigerator,  electric  washer, 
electric  cleaner  and  many  other  time-  labor-  and  material -saving 
appliances  because  they  are  not  only  conducive  to  better  living 
but  practical  and  economical — all  factors  considered. 

Everything  in  the  modern  home  makes  for  cleanliness  and 
comfort  with  one  exception:   The  fuel  range.    The  fuel  range  in 


44  THE  ELECTRIC  RANGE 

a  clean  modern  kitchen  is  on  a  par  with  the  horse  in  an  up-to-date 
garage.  The  fuel  range  is  dirty,  unreliable,  unhealthful  and 
it  demands  a  great  deal  of  attention.  So  it  is  continually  being 
replaced  by  the  electric  range  with  its  flameless  heat,  uniform 
generation  and  distribution  and  its  scientific  operation  just  as 
the  automobile  is  superseding  the  horse. 

Completes  the  Home.  The  electric  range  fits  into  domestic 
life  today  because  it  regenerates  and  modernizes  the  one  old- 
fashioned  and  yet  the  most  active  and  important  department  of 
the  home — the  kitchen. 

Moreover  it  plays  a  dominating  part  in  the  scheme  of  efficient 
housekeeping  and  completes  the  home.  It  is  one  of  the  biggest 
factors  in  permitting  the  housewife  to  do  her  own  work,  easily, 
happily  and  without  loss  of  pride! 

The  conservation  of  time  and  labor  pays  for  its  first  cost  and 
the  conservation  of  food  for  its  operation.  It  is  not  a  luxury 
any  more  than  the  telephone  or  the  electric  cleaner.  Therefore 
it  ^' belongs^ ^ — and  it  has  a  well-defined  place  in  the  home  today! 


"npHE  HISTORY  of  Civilization  proves 
I  that  human  beings  are  not  satisfied 
with  cheapness.  If  we  were  willing 
to  utilize  the  cheapest  article  which  would 
service  our  purpose,  we  would  today  be 
cooking  over  wood  fires;  we  would  be  wear- 
ing denim  trousers;  we  would  be  walking 
instead  of  burning  28  cent  gasoline;  and  we 
would  be  eating  rice  and  lentils  instead  of 
squab  and  alligator  pears.  Moreover  we  are 
not  satisfied  with  the  old,  uncomfortable 
laborious  time-killing  ways  of  doing  things. 
We  want  speed,  comfort,  luxury.  And  we 
are  willing  to  pay  for  it." 


Kitchenette  Ranges 


Market.    Owing  to  the  high  cost  of  living  particularly  in  the  big 

cities,  there  has  been  a  steadily  increasing  demand  for  smaller 

and  more  compact  apartments.  Families  living  in  residences  have 

moved    to    apartments.    Families  in 

apartments  have  moved  to    smaller 

apartments.    In  the  city  today,  the 

parlor  is  often  a  thing  of  the  past.    It 

is  now  a  living  room.  These  conditions 

have  led  to  the   remodelling  of  large 

houses  into  small  suites,  the  majority 

having  a  small  living  room,  bedroom, 

bath  and  kitchenette. 

As  a  rule  the  kitchenette  is  merely 
a  closet  or  a  recess  in  the  wall  for  the 
cooking  device.  This  condition  de- 
mands not  only  a  small  and  compact, 
but  a  clean,  cool  and  handy  cooking 
device.  And  this  is  found  in  the  elec- 
tric kitchenette  range  which  is  a 
combination  hot-plate  and  portable 
oven.  This  device  can  be  installed  in 
a  little  recess  or  compartment  built 
into  the  wall,  in  closets,  on  the  backs 
of  closet  doors,  on  pivot  doors  and 
in  fact  almost  any  little  out-of-the- 
way  place.  These  ranges  are  also 
used  in  summer  homes,  domestic 
science  schools,  studios,  buffets,  soda 
fountains  and  similar  places. 

45 


Large  size  kitchenette  range 
installed  in  a  recess  of  a 
former  butler's  pantry.  This 
residence  has  been  remod- 
elled into  small  apart- 
ments of  two  and  three 
rooms  with  kitchenettes. 
The  electric  range  is  ideal 
for  such  installations  be- 
cause it  is  the  cleanest, 
coolest,  most  convenient 
and  most  compact  cooking 
device. 


46 


THE  ELECTRIC  RANGE 


Two  methods  of  installing 
kitchenette  ranges:  On  the  back 
of  a  pantry  door  and  on  the 
back  of  a  ** pivot**  door.  When 
the  cooking  is  being  done  the 
door  i«  closed  and  the  odors 
escape  through  a  ventilator  in 
the  ceiling  of  pantry.  Thus  the 
**kitchen**  is  enclosed  within 
the  pantry  and  this  room  elim- 
inated in  the  small  apartment. 


Load  and  Installation.  The  connected  load  of  the  average 
kitchenette  range  is  from  two  to  three  kilowatts.  The  average 
demand  is  very  low  and  it  is  therefore  a  most  desirable  current- 
consuming  device  for  the  central  station  because  in  such  small 
apartments  only  breakfast  and  luncheon  are  prepared  by  the 
housewife.    The  family  generally  has  dinner  at  a  restaurant. 

In  installing  these  kitchenette  ranges  on  pivot  doors  or  on 
the  backs  of  pantry  doors  the  connections  are  generally  made 
with  a  flexible  steel-armored  conductor  with  sufficient  slack  to 
allow  for  the  full  opening  of  the  door.     (Note  illustrations.) 


KITCHENETTE  RANGES 


47 


Another  popular  type  of  kitchenette 
on  a  more  elaborate  scale.    It  is  gen- 
erally an   enclosed  compartment  in 
the  dining  room  and  is   a   complete 
kitchen  in  itself,   with  a  two- surf  ace-unit  and 
oven  range,  full-sized  sink,  dish  closet  and  food 
and  cooking  utensil  compartments.    Note  how 
snugly   and  compactly   this  particular    type   of 
kitchenette  range  fits  into  its  place!    The  doors 

of  the  compartment  have  glass  panels,  the  inside  of  which  are 
generally  curtained.  When  the  kitchenette  is  not  in  use,  the  doors 
are  closed  and  give  the  appearance  of  doors  leading  to  another 
room.  Such  a  kitchenette  can  also  be  installed  in  studios,  bachelor 
apartments,  light  housekeeping  rooms  and  similar  places  where 
only  breakfast  and  luncheon  are  prepared.  Owing  to  lack  of  space 
and  the  growing  custom  of  **dining  out**  in  the  evening,  the  kitchen- 
ette is  becoming  one  of  the  popular  kitchens  of  the  day.  It  ade- 
quately serves  the  purpose  of  the  home  and  eliminates  one  full- 
sized  room^—the  kitchen.  And  it  has  been  made  possible  and 
practicable  by  the  ELECTRIC  kitchenette  range! 


Probably  the  most  popular  type  of 
kitchenette  range  in  use  today.  Owing 
to  the  fact  that  its  oven  and  surface 
units  are  so  compact  and  occupy  such 
a  small  space,  this  range  can  be  in- 
stalled in  almost  any  recess  or  com- 
partment in  the  kitchenette.  Yet  it 
is  large  enough  to  cook  a  full  meal 
for  several  people.  The  connected  load 
is  about  3  kilowatts.  Seven  or  eight 
of  these  ranges  in  a  remodeled  house 
which  was  formerly  served  by  ONE 
kitchen  is  indeed  good  business  for 
the  central  station. 


CHAPTER  III 

ELECTRIC  COOKERY 

History  and  Development 

Introduction.  The  first  practical  attempt  at  electric  cookery 
was  made  in  England  in  1890.  And  the  first  effort  to  introduce 
electric  cookery  to  the  public  was  at  the  Crystal  Palace  Elec- 
trical Exhibition  in  London  in  1891.  In  1895  in  the  Cannon 
Street  Hotel,  London,  the  first  electrically-cooked  banquet  was 
given  in  honor  of  the  Lord  Mayor  and  was  a  success  both  in  the 
cookery  and  in  creating  general  interest. 

The  first  activities  in  the  United  States  took  place  about  1900 
when  a  fireless  cooker  manufacturer  in  Toledo  put  an  electric 
heating  unit  in  his  device.  No  progress  worthy  of  mention  oc- 
curred until  1905  when  three  electrical  manufacturers  began  to 
experiment  with  a  frail  and  undependable  hot-plate.  It  was  not 
until  1909  that  a  range  which  *'stood  up''  and  cooked  for  any 
length  of  time  was  put  on  the  market. 

Development.  During  the  ten  years  since  1909,  electric  range 
manufacturers  have  developed  the  most  perfect  cooking  device 
in  the  world  and  a  large  number  of  central  stations  have  solved 
the  numerous  technical  and  commercial  problems  in  connection 
with  its  merchandising,  installation  and  service. 

Today  more  than  4,500  of  the  12,545  electrically-served  com- 
munities in  this  country  have  an  electric  cooking  rate  of  5  cents 
or  lower.    Of  these  rates,  70%  are  4  cents  or  lower  and  more 

48 


HISTORY  AND  DEVELOPMENT  49 

than  30%  of  the  total  are  3  cents  or  lower.  Some  of  the  most 
progressive  central  stations  are  actively  merchandising  ranges 
twelve  months  in  the  year  with  range  specialists  and  modern 
sales  organizations. 

Interest  in  electric  cookery  has  developed  more  rapidly  than  in 
any  other  cooking  method  and  last  year  electric  cookery  received 
the  approval  of  prominent  cooking  authorities  and  dietitians  of 
the  United  States.  It  is  also  being  adopted  by  the  leading  pub- 
lic and  private  high  and  normal  schools,  cooking  and  domestic 
science  schools,  colleges  and  universities.  Electric  cookery  ar- 
ticles are  being  published  regularly  in  the  household  sections  of 
the  national  women's  magazines. 

Not  only  has  the  use  of  the  electric  range  made  great  strides 
in  the  United  States  and  Canada  but  there  are  a  large  number 
of  them  in  use  today  in  England,  France,  China  and  Central  and 
South  America.  Hot  plates  and  portable  ovens  have  also  been 
sold  to  virtually  every  country  in  the  world.  But  America  has 
been  the  most  progressive  because  it  has  established  favorable 
rates  and  merchandised  ranges  on  a  practical  business-like  basis. 

Large  Station  Sales.  The  first  electric  ranges  were  installed 
by  small  central  stations  which  did  not  carry  appreciable  power 
loads,  but  in  the  past  three  years  a  number  of  the  biggest  sta- 
tions in  the  country  have  actively  promoted  the  range  and  today 
carry  very  profitable  cooking  loads. 

The  Southern  California  Edison  Company  with  its  principal 
office  in  Los  Angeles  has  2,920  ranges  on  its  lines  today;  the 
Edison  Electric  Illuminating  Company  of  Boston  has  over  1,700; 
the  Idaho  Ry.  Lt.  &  Pwr.  Company,  Boise,  Idaho  over  1,625; 
the  Texas  Power  &  Light  Company  of  Dallas  has  1,175;  the 
Montana  Power  Company  of  Butte  has  1,575;  Union  Electric 


50  ELECTRIC  COOKERY 

Light  85  Power  Company,  St.  Louis  has  1,175;  the  Utah  Power 
&  Light  Company,  Salt  Lake  City  1,573  and  the  Washington 
Water  Power  Company,  Spokane,  Washington,  2,200.  For  more 
complete  report  see  insert  folder  in  back  of  book. 

Superiority.  Briefly,  the  superiority  of  electric  cookery  lies  in 
the  ideal  quality  of  electric  heat,  which  is  even,  dependable, 
easily  regulated  and  not  subject  to  fluctuation  through  pressure, 
atmospheric  conditions  nor  drafts  nor  can  it  be  extinguished  by 
liquids  boiling  over.  The  ovens  are  thickly  insulated  on  the  fire- 
less  cooker  or  refrigerator  principle.  Their  heat  is  not  only  con- 
served but  they  are  free  from  gaseous  fumes  and  air  currents 
which  not  only  jeopardize  the  purity  of  the  food  but  dry  it  out  to 
the  detriment  of  its  nutritive  value,  weight  and  delicacy.  There- 
fore the  range  produces  larger  roasts — roasts  which  are  richer, 
juicier  and  that  retain  virtually  all  of  their  natural  flavors  and 
nutriment.  Bread  baked  in  the  electric  oven  retains  its  moisture 
and  is  more  evenly  baked  and  browned.  Cakes  are  more  evenly 
raised  and  more  delicate  in  flavor.  For  complete  description  of 
Electric  Cooking  see  Better  Cooked  Food,  page  135. 


SAY  ''ELECTRIC  Cookery"— not  ''cook- 
ing." Cookery  is  the  only  noun  form 
of  the  word  "cook"  in  the  latest  dic- 
tionaries. Cooking  is  a  present  participle 
and  the  expression  "Electric  Cooking"  is 
incorrect. 


Electric  Heat 

Generation.  Fuel  heat  is  produced  by  a  gaseous,  vitiating  soot- 
producing  flame  which  is  the  result  of  a  chemical  process  of 
combustion  with  oxygen.  Electric  heat  is  produced  by  electric 
current  passing  through  a  resistance  wire  which  does  not  affect 
nor  is  affected  by  the  atmosphere. 

Advantages.  Electrical  energy  produces  the  most  perfect  heat. 
It  is  radically  different  from  fuel  heat  in  that  it  can  be  concen- 
trated at  the  point  of  utilization,  in  any  quantity  at  any  tem- 
perature, in  any  atmosphere  and  with  a  uniform  intensity. 

It  is  produced  without  combustion,  flame,  soot  or  fumes;  can 
be  confined  to  any  definite  area;  is  under  absolute  control  as  to 
temperature,  precisely  measured  as  to  quantity  and  utilized  at 
a  greater  efficiency  than  fuel  heat  because  of  the  scientific  thermal - 
storage  construction  of  electric  heating  apparatus. 

The  utilization  of  electric  heat  eliminates  the  buying,  storing 
and  handling  of  fuel  and  disposing  of  waste  material.  Its  saving 
in  labor,  time  and  space  results  in  a  saving  in  overhead  and  taxes. 
Its  safety  reduces  the  fire  hazard. 

Heat  Characteristics.  Heat  is  imparted  in  three  ways:  Radia- 
tion, Conduction  and  Convection.  Radiation  is  the  passage  of 
heat  from  one  object  to  another  not  in  direct  contact  through 
the  agency  of  ether  waves.  The  intensity  varies  inversely  as  the 
square  of  the  distance.  Example:  A  radiant-type  electric  heater. 
Conduction  is  the  passing  of  heat  between  two  bodies  in  direct 
contact.  It  passes  more  quickly  than  by  radiation  and  without 
possible  interruption.  Example:  The  electric  iron.  Convection 
is  the  transfer  of  heat  from  one  object  to  another  through  the 
agency  of  air,  or,  in  a  fluid  mass,  through  circulation  of  the  move- 

51 


52  ELECTRIC  COOKERY 


m 


ment  of  elements  in  the  mass.  Example:  An  immersion  heater 
or  a  steam  radiator  against  which  the  water  or  air  moves,  ab- 
sorbs and  distributes  the  heat. 

Methods  of  Measuring.  Quantity  is  measured  by  the  British 
Thermal  Unit  which  represents  the  quantity  of  heat  energy  re- 
quired to  raise  the  temperature  of  one  pound  of  water  one  degree 
Fahrenheit.  Intensity  is  indicated  by  the  temperature  which  is 
recorded  by  a  thermometer  and  pyrometer  in  degrees.  Water 
has  been  universally  adopted  as  the  medium  on  which  these 
standards  of  measurement  are  based. 

Comparison  with  Other  Methods.  In  the  majority  of  cities, 
the  dollar  and  cents  cost  of  a  given  number  of  electric  heat  units 
is  higher  than  those  produced  by  the  combustion  of  fuels.  But 
electric  heat  is  utilized  at  three  to  five  times  the  efficiency  of 
fuel.  This  and  its  many  other  advantages  compensates  for  the 
increased  cost  and  makes  it  the  least  expensive  when  all  factors 
are  considered. 

Without  doubt,  electric  energy  will  be  the  ultimate  heating 
medium  for  many  operations  because  of  its  greater  efficiency, 
safety,  cleanliness  and  varied  possibilities  in  its  application,  gen- 
eration, conservation  and  utilization.  These  are  merely  a  few 
fundamental  facts  about  the  characteristics  of  heat  which  may 
be  interesting  to  the  electric  range  salesman. 

Fireless  Cooker  Principle 

Evolution.  The  electric  cooker  is  an  improvement  of  the  fire- 
less  cooker  which  is  in  turn  a  development  of  the  old  '*bean-hole'' 
in  the  ground.  Centuries  ago  this  method  of  applying  heat  to 
food  was  in  vogue.    Men  deposited  hot  stones  in  holes  in  the 


FIRELESS  COOKER  PRINCIPLE  53 

ground  around  which  they  placed  meat  and  fish  and  then  covered 
the  pit  with  leaves  and  dirt.  After  several  hours  the  food  was 
cooked. 

Purpose.  Not  until  recently  has  the  principle  of  this  heat  stor- 
age method  been  appreciated  and  its  scientific  possibilities  real- 
ized. With  the  introduction  of  the  fuel  stoves,  combustion  was 
constantly  maintained  throughout  the  cooking  operation.  The 
economy  of  using  stored  heat  was  neglected.  But  today  the 
electric  cooker  is  coming  into  use  with  this  principle  scientifically 
developed. 

Foods  Cooked.  Food  cooked  in  this  way  is  more  delicious  and 
nourishing  than  by  other  methods  because  the  full  nutritive 
values  and  natural  flavors  have  been  retained.  See  Better  Cooked 
Foody  page  135.  The  fireless  cooker  principle  is  particularly 
adapted  to  the  stewing  and  boiling  of  meats,  boiling  and  steam- 
ing of  vegetables,  steaming  of  puddings,  baking  of  beans,  es- 
callop vegetables  and  for  the  stewing  and  preserving  of  fruit. 

The  Electric  Cooker.  Electric  cookers  are  manufactured  for 
attachment  to  lamp  sockets  and  their  connected '  load  is  less 
than  the  660  watt  limitation  of  a  branch  circuit.  Their  consump- 
tion may  be  compared  favorably  with  that  of  the  electric  iron — 
only  they  are  used  many  more  times  a  week.  In  fact  when  a 
housewife  becomes  accustomed  to  this  appliance  she  will  prob- 
ably do  a  large  part  of  her  daily  cooking  in  it. 


CHAPTER  IV 

RANGE  LOAD 

Investment  and  Return 

Average  Conditions.  The  average  central  station  operates  the 
major  part  of  the  24  hours  at  only  a  fraction  of  its  capacity.  In 
fact  half  the  generating  capacity  would  probably  suffice  for  90% 
of  the  time  where  the  industrial  power  load  is  small.  Off-peak 
business  must  therefore  be  developed  to  get  a  more  continuous 
return  on  the  large  idle  investment.  The  electric  range  and  water 
heater  are  the  best  mediums  to  build  up  the  valleys  with  the 
least  added  investment. 

At  first  thought  it  might  seem  that  the  capital  investment  to 
take  on  this  load  would  be  large  but  this  can  be  shown  not  to  be 
the  case.  By  referring  to  the  insert  in  back  of  book  it  will  be  seen 
that  with  a  4%  kilowatt  average  connected  load  of  a  range  the 
average  demand  is  23^  kilowatts  or  less  than  one-half,  as  all 
heating  units  of  a  range  are  not  on  at  one  time.  Therefore  1,000 
ranges  with  a  connected  load  of  4,750  kilowatts  would  only  have 
a  2,250  kilowatt  demand.  Then  it  is  also  proven  that  with  a 
considerable  number  of  ranges  installed  the  diversity  factor  is 
ten  to  one.    See  Boise  and  Milwaukee  in  the  insert. 

Pro-rating  Investment.  The  yearly  income  per  range  is  $48.75 
at  the  average  rate  of  334  cents — or  a  total  of  $48,750  for  these 
1,000  ranges.  If  the  installation  cost  to  the  central  station  is 
figured  at  $75.00  per  range  (far  above  the  average),  this  would 

54 


INVESTMENT  AND  RETURN  55 

total  $75,000  against  which  the  income  of  $48,750  would  be  a 
very  large  percentage.  Many  domestic  lighting  customers  pay 
only  from  $6  to  $12  a  year  and  without  added  cost  for  meter 
reading,  billing,  etc.,  an  additional  return  of  nearly  $50  is  secured. 
Pro-rating  the  installation  cost  over  a  period  of  five  years  makes 
the  return  a  highly  profitable  one. 

Characteristics  of  the  Load 

Character.  The  range  load  varies  with  the  size  of  the  town, 
the  section  of  the  country,  customs  of  the  people  and  the  season 
of  the  year.  In  a  small  town  the  principal  meal  of  the  day  is 
usually  at  noon.  In  the  city  it  is  more  often  cooked  between 
five  and  seven  o'clock  in  the  evening.  In  the  city  the  evening 
peak  is  later  than  in  the  small  town,  owing  to  the  later  dinner 
hour  which  is  necessary  as  people  are  obliged  to  travel  longer 
distances  between  place  of  employment  and  the  home. 

The  morning  cooking  load  comes  before  the  commercial  load. 
At  noon-time  a  considerable  part  of  it  comes  between  twelve 
and  one  o'clock  when  a  large  portion  of  the  commercial  load  is 
off.  In  the  evening  the  cooking  load  generally  extends  from  4:30 
p.m.  to  7:00  p.m.  Some  of  it  may  overlap  the  lighting  load. 
However  it  has  been  stated  by  central  station  range  authorities 
that  the  overlap  is  less  than  10%  in  the  Winter  and  very  little 
in  the  Summer. 

The  range  is  operated  365  days  in  the  year,  whereas  industrial 
power  is  used  on  an  average  of  only  300  days  in  the  year.  The 
range  load  is  also  the  only  appreciable  load  which  is  in  operation 
during  the  daytime  on  Sundays  and  holidays. 

Demand  and  Diversity  Factor.  Assume  that  the  connected 
load  of  a  range  is  5  kilowatts.    The  demand  is  seldom  more  than 


6759l01Meie3^567&e)7?.9  10llf2l   234567^1 


I 

15 

10 

5 

0 

20 

15 

t  '^ 
I  S 
1     0 


20 
15 
10 
5 
0 

20 
15 
10 


m 


TUESDAY 


a 


t,; 


fi 


THURSWOr 


1 


M 


FRIDAY 


M 


I 

cC 

1  r 

SATURDAY 

•  ...J 

Il1,c 

Vl 

A  k 

hU    \1^ 

-J-K-4^ 

7  Jw 

^  t\i^ 

^   IE. 

s 


SUNDAY 


at^ 


±fiL 


6759  10  11  121  231-5675 

Daily  load  curies  for  one  week  for  ranges  and  lights  in  the  Blackstone 
Apartnients,  .^filwaukee.  The  composite  curve  for  the  week  gives  an 
excellent  idea  of  the  average  range  load.  The  Milwaukee  Electric 
Railway  S  Light  Co.  state  that  while  the  individual  maximum 
demand  of  single  range  may  average  between  40  and  60  percent,  of 
the  connected  load,  the  maximum  demand  for  a  group  of  25  ranges 
will  not   exceed   IS  percent   of  the  connected  load. 


0 


i 

\  I  \           i  :  !  !  M  1 

j 

1     1 

1     \     ; 

!  i 

\     } 

I      ) 

Cc<nposit^fo^UI| 

«k 

j 

k 

A 

7  \ 

' — 1 

/N 

[ 

1 

i 

V'  \ 

/^  y     ^      ,         V  i 

CHARACTERISTICS  OF  THE  LOAD  57 


2}4  kilowatts  or  45  percent.  This  is  due  to  the  fact  that  all  the 
units  are  not  operated  at  once  and  that  little  of  the  cooking  is 
done  on  *'High''  which  is  used  in  figuring  maximum  demand. 
''High''  is  used  only  in  heating  up  the  units.  As  soon  as  the 
desired  temperature  is  obtained,  ''Medium''  (or  one-half  of 
*'High")  will  maintain  it.  Ofttimes  "Low"  (or  one-fourth  of 
"High")  is  used  for  the  longer  periods  of  cooking. 

When  a  utility  has  1,000  ranges  on  its  lines,  one  would  assume 
that  a  station  capacity  of  2,250  kilowatts  would  be  required  to 
handle  the  load.  But  this  is  not  the  case  as  experience  has 
shown  that  the  diversity  factor  is  10  to  1  when  this  number  of 
ranges  are  installed.  Therefore  instead  of  2,250  kilowatts,  only 
one-tenth  or  225  kilowatts  will  carry  the  load. 

Two  Examples  of  Range  Loads.  The  Northern  Idaho  & 
Montana  Power  Company  in  Kalispell,  Montana,  experienced 
a  remarkable  cooking  load  growth.  During  a  week  in  July  1917, 
the  electric  energy  output  amounted  to  68,000  kilowatt-hours 
exceeding  all  former  records  with  the  exception  of  Christmas 
week  in  1916  when  the  output  amounted  to  69,000  kilowatt- 
hours. 

This  large  output  is  attributed  to  the  number  of  electric 
ranges  placed  on  the  lines  during  the  Spring.  It  is  unusual  for  a 
central  station  to  enjoy  an  output  in  the  Summer  months  ap- 
proaching that  of  the  Winter  because  of  the  much  greater  use  of 
electricity  for  lighting  during  the  dark  months. 

The  Bismarck,  North  Dakota,  station  had  a  capacity  of  only 
900  kilowatts  in  1917,  yet  150  ranges  with  a  total  connected 
load  of  500  kilowatts  were  installed  on  its  lines.  No  trouble  how- 
ever was  experienced  during  the  peak  period.  This  case  is 
interesting  as  a  large  proportion  of  the  lighting  customers  have 
electric  ranges  in  their  homes. 


CHAPTER  V 

INSTALLATION 

General 

Factors  in  Installation.  Correct  installation  is  a  vitally  im- 
portant factor  in  electric  range  service.  This  importance  cannot 
be  over-estimated  for  it  is  the  very  foundation  of  the  satisfaction 
of  the   purchaser.     A  finished  installation  includes  five  factors: 

1 .  The  wiring  used  must  be  of  ample  size  or  there  will  be  a  drop 

in  voltage  and  the  units  will  not  give  their  full  heat. 

2.  The  voltage  must  meet  specifications  on  the  nameplate  or  there 

will  be  similar  trouble. 

3.  The  grounding  of  the  frame  must  be  thorough  to  afford  pro- 

tection to  the  operator. 

4.  The  worJ^manship  should  be  of  the  highest  class  to  avoid  dis- 

satisfaction and  trouble. 

5.  The  location  of  the  range  in  the  kitchen — a  location  which 

will  require  the  least  number  of  steps  and  have  the  best 
day  and  artificial  light. 

As  the  central  station  is  compelled  to  spend  a  considerable 
amount  of  money  in  the  sale  and  installation  of  a  range — for 
advertising,  general  sales  expense,  handling  equipment,  rear- 
ranging of  inside  wiring,  and  in  some  instances  the  reconstruction 
of  service  and  distribution  lines — it  should  take  no  chances  of 
having  a  troublesome  installation. 

58 


GENERAL  59 


Central  Stations*  Responsibility »  If  possible  and  practicable, 
a  central  station  should  wire  and  install  all  ranges  during  the 
first  few  weeks  of  its  first  campaign.  This  will  insure  against 
mistakes  which  might  be  made  by  inexperienced  wiremen.  But 
after  a  number  of  ranges  have  been  installed  and  the  central 
station  has  established  a  wiring  standard,  both  as  to  methods 
and  cost,  it  is  not  bad  policy  to  encourage  the  contractor- 
dealers  to  handle  this  business,  provided  of  course  that  they  will 
follow  specifications,  be  reasonable  in  their  price,  and  willing  to 
have  the  central  station  retain  the  necessary  privilege  of  super- 
vision and  final  inspection  and  approval  before  payment  is  made. 
It  is  the  duty  of  the  central  station  to  see  that  every  range  in- 
stallation handled  by  a  contractor-dealer  is  in  accordance  with 
the  central  station  specifications  and  all  ordinances  and  fire 
insurance  requirements.    See  Insurance  Requirements,  page  206. 

Standard  Units.  Units  of  standard  makes  of  ranges  are  de- 
signed for  110  volts.  Current  at  110  volts  permits  the  use  of  a 
heavy  wire  which  gives  the  unit  a  very  rugged  and  durable  con- 
struction. That  is  why  it  has  been  standardized.  The  majority 
of  manufacturers  will  furnish  units  for  220  volts  if  requested  in 
order.  These  units  however  are  made  with  smaller-sized  resis- 
tance wire  and  their  use  is  not  encouraged  as  they  do  not  stand 
up  as  well  after  they  have  been  in  service  a  short  time. 


DO  NOT  maintain  a  "Trouble"  or  ** Re- 
pair" Department.  Both  words  create 
a  bad  impression  and  imply  there  is 
so  much  trouble  and  repairing  necessary 
that  a  whole  department  is  required  to 
handle  it.  * 'Service  Department"  is  much 
better. 


Wiring  Specifications 

The  following  specifications,  based  largely  on  the 
N,  E.  L.  A.  Range  Committee    Report,  are  con- 
sidered desirable: 

Specifications  for  Wiring  Electric 
Cooking     and    Heating     Devices. 

/.  General.  These  specifications  are  not  intended  to  give  de- 
tailed instructions  covering  the  methods  to  be  used  in  wiring 
electric  heating  devices  and  ranges,  but  to  furnish  an  outline  of 
certain  general  arrangements  and  requirements  which  should  be 
followed  in  every  installation.  Each  job  presents  a  different 
problem  to  the  wireman,  the  details  of  which  must  be  solved 
by  the  man  on  the  ground,  and  the  completed  job  made  to  con- 
form with  the  general  requirements  given  herewith  and  the 
Regulations  of  the  National  Board  of  Fire  Underwriters. 

//.  Service  Connections. 

(a)  Pole  to    House 

Service  connections  will  be  made  3-wire,  110/220  volt,  from 
pole  line  to  house  outlet,  for  all  installations  of  1000  watts  or 
over  connected  load.  No.  6  copper  wire  will  be  the  minimum 
size  used  for  this  class  of  service. 

(b)  Building  Outlet  to  Meter 
(1)  One-Family  House 

The  wires  from  building  outlet  to  main  line  switch  should  be 
installed  in  metal  conduit.  Three  wires,  No.  8  or  larger,  and 
1-in.  metal  conduit  shall  be  used  for  all  installations  having  a 
connected  load  of  1000  watts  or  over. 

In  wiring  new  houses,  when  the  connected  load  is  unknown, 
the  wireman  shall  use  his  judgment  as  to  whether  the  ultimate 

60 


WIRING  SPECIFICATION 


61 


RANGE  WIRING  DIAGRAM 


14^/res  Must  be  Sepdirate/y 
Bushed  when  Pass/na 
Through  Wd//  of  Box 


Simple  range  wiring  diagram  drawn  in  accordance  with  the  regulations 
of  the  National  Board  of  Fire  Underwriters, 


62  INSTALLATION 


load  will  require  greater  carrying  capacity  than  that  of  No.  8 
wire  and  provide  for  the  maximum  in  the  original  installation. 

(2)  Flats  and  Apartment    Houses 

The  Fire  Underwriters'  Regulations  require  that  mains  feed- 
ing more  than  one  range  be  large  enough  to  supply  the  total  load 
of  all  the  ranges  at  the  same  time,  disregarding  any  diversity  of 
load.* 

Where  it  is  probable  that  the  other  tenants  in  the  house  will 
install  electric  ranges  or  heating  devices,  it  will  prove  much 
cheaper  to  provide  capacity  for  the  total  ultimate  load  when 
making  the  first  installation. 

///.  Main  Line  Switchesy  Meter  Loops 

(a)  Location 

(1)  Range  on  First  Floor  of  Residence  or  Flat 

A  new  service  connection  should  be  installed,  locating  the 
meter  and  main  line  switch  in  the  customary  place  and  connect- 
ing existing  lighting  circuits  to  the  new  service.  The  range 
circuit  should  then  be  extended  from  meter  to  range  by  the 
most  direct  route. 

(2)  Range  on  the  Second  Floor  of  Apartment  or  Residence 
The  existing  location  of  meters  should  be  used  wherever  pos- 
sible, installing  the  new  circuit  to  the  building  outlet.  Where 
necessary,  the  old  meter  loop  should  be  taken  out,  and  connec- 
tions to  the  existing  lighting  circuits  brought  to  the  new  meter 
location.  The  main  line  switch  shall  have  sufficient  capacity 
to  care  for  the  total  load. 

As  apartment  house  meters  are  usually  placed  in  the  basement, 
it  will  be  necessary  to  run  a  3 -wire  connection  from  building  out- 

NOTE  *  The  requirement  is  distinctly  unreasonable,  and  local  permission  may  he  secured   to 
modify  it. 


WIRING  SPECIFICATIONS  63 

let  to  meter  board,  and  a  range  circuit  from  this  point  to  the 
range. 

(b)  Materials,  Sizes 

Unless  the  existing  main  line  switch  is  a  TPST  fused  knife 
switch  of  an  approved  type  and  of  sufficient  capacity  to  carry 
the  additional  load,  a  new  TPST  fused  knife  switch  of  60  am- 
peres or  greater  capacity  shall  be  installed  in  an  approved  metal 
cabinet  or  switch  box.  The  outside  legs  of  this  switch  should  be 
fused  with  rated  ampere  capacity  of  fuses  equal  to  150  percent 
of  the  connected  load.  The  neutral  wire  shall  be  grounded  on 
the  load  side  of  the  switch  but  must  not  be  fused. 

Whenever  possible  the  cut-outs  for  the  lighting  circuits  shall 
be  enclosed  in  the  same  box  with  the  main  line  switch.  The 
accompanying  sketch  (page  6l)  illustrates  the  method  of  installing 
switches,  meters,  etc.,  recommended  for  standard  practice. 

IV.  Range  Circuits 

Materials,  Sizes 
All  range  circuits  shall  be  3-wire  No.  8  rubber-covered  stranded 
wire  or  larger  conductor  depending  upon  the  size  of  the  installa- 
tion and  the  distance  from  meter  to  load.  The  table  given  on  page 
64  shall  be  used  to  determine  the  size  of  conductor  which  shall  be 
used  in  these  circuits.  Where  conduit  is  used,  the  range  circuit 
shall  be  carried  in  approved  metal  conduit  of  not  less  than  1 
inch  inside  diameter,  which  shall  be  installed  in  accordance  with 
the  Underwriters'  Regulations. 

"CLECTRIC  RANGES  can  be  and  should  be  installed 
^  to  the  utmost  satisfaction  of  both  the  purchaser 
and  the  Central  Station  on  the  very  first  day.  There- 
fore a  troublesome  range  installation  is  an  inexcus- 
able mistake.  And  it  can  kill  more  range  sales  than 
ten  satisfactory  installations  can   create   prospects. 


64  INSTALLATION 


Wiring  Table 

2  Per  Cent  Drop 


Load  No.  8  No.  6  No.  4  No.  2  No.  1 

Watts         35  amp.       50  amp.       70  amp.       90  amp.      107  amp. 

Distance  in  feet  for  110/220  volt,  S-wire  circuits. 


1000 

375 

1500 

250 

2000 

185 

295 

2500 

145 

235 

3000 

125 

198 

316 

3500 

105 

170 

270 

4000 

93 

148 

236 

4500 

83 

132 

213 

5000 

76 

118 

188 

300 

5500 

68 

108 

172 

273 

6000 

62 

99 

158 

250 

312 

6500 

58 

92 

145 

231 

289 

7000 

54 

85 

135 

215 

268 

7500 

50 

79 

126 

200 

250 

8000 

74 

118 

187 

234 

9000 

66 

105 

166 

208 

10000 

59 

95 

150 

187 

12000 

79 

125 

156 

15000 

100 

125 

20000 

94 

Three  No.  8  or  larger  conductors  shall  be  used  in  all  new 
houses  where  the  size  of  range  to  be  installed  is  unknown,  but 
will  not  exceed  7000  watts.  When  the  length  of  circuit  is  great, 
ample  size  of  conductor  should  be  provided  to  avoid  excessive 
voltage  drop.  Three  No.  8  wires  should  be  the  minimum  used, 
even  though  larger  than  at  first  required,  as  this  will  permit 
installing  a  larger  range  without  changing  the  wiring.  This 
increased  cost  would  amount  to  only  approximately  5  percent 
of  the  combined  cost  of  ranges  and  wiring  in  most  cases. 


WIRING  SPECIFICATIONS  65 

V.  Master  Switch 

A  master  switch  which  clearly  indicates  whether  it  is  open  or 
closed,  and  a  pilot  light,  where  local  requirements  demand  it, 
should  be  installed  at  a  point  within  easy  access  of  the  range. 
This  switch  should  be  of  the  three-pole,  fused  type,  safety 
switch.  It  is  essential  to  have  a  thoroughly  safe  installation,  so 
use  a  safety  switch  which  is  so  constructed  that  there  is  no 
possibility  of  coming  in  contact  with  live  parts  in  opening  and 
closing  or  re-fusing  the  switch.  Such  a  switch  will  cost  approx- 
imately $10.  Where  this  cost  is  considered  excessive,  a  TPST 
knife  switch  shall  be  installed  in  a  steel  cut-out  box,  so  that  the 
fuses  are  on  the  load  side  of  the  switch.  This  box  should  be  in- 
stalled at  a  minimum  height  of  five  feet  above  the  floor.  A 
caution  label,  warning  against  re-fusing  the  switch  while  in  the 
closed  position  should  be  posted  on  the  inside  cover  of  the  box. 
The  neutral  wire  should  be  grounded  but  not  fused. 

VI.  Double  Throw  Switches  for  Water  Heaters 

Where  water  heaters  and  ranges  are  supplied  from  the  same 
circuit  and  their  operation  controlled  by  a  double  throw  or  snap 
switch,  this  switch  shall  be  of  an  approved  safety  type. 

VIL   Grounding  Frame 

The  neutral  wire  of  3 -wire  circuits  shall  be  grounded  at  the 
main  switch  and  at  the  range.  All  conduits  shall  be  grounded 
by  means  of  No.  6  stranded  copper  wire  fastened  in  an  approved 
manner  by  approved  ground  clamps.  The  frame  of  the  range 
must  be  thoroughly  grounded.  Joints  or  taps  in  the  ground  wire 
shall  all  be  soldered  and  where  the  wire  runs  in  an  exposed 
position,  it  must  be  protected  from  mechanical  injury  by  means 
of  moulding. 


66  INSTALLATION 


Ground  connections  should  be  made  to  the  street  side  of  the 
water  meter  wherever  possible.  Connections  to  pipes  must  be 
made  with  approved  clamps  and  the  pipe  must  be  thoroughly 
cleaned  of  paint  or  dirt,  so  that  a  good  connection  is  obtained. 

It  has  been  assumed  that  the  range  manufacturer  has  balanced 
the  heating  units  connected  to  each  leg  of  a  3-wire  range.  If 
this  is  not  the  case,  the  units  must  be  reconnected,  or  the  size 
of  wire,  switches  and  fuses  increased  to  amply  provide  for  the 
maximum  current  on  the  more  heavily  loaded  side. 

Recommendations 

Voltage.  The  concensus  of  opinion  on  the  question  of  voltage 
seems  to  be  that  a  balanced  110/220-volt,  3-wire  service  is  the 
most  desirable,  even  though  balancing  on  a  110/220-volt  system 
is  difficult  with  only  a  few  ranges. 

The  following  data  will  aid  in  calculating  the  secondary  dis- 
tribution requirements  for  a  typical  range  installation.  In  this 
calculation,  it  is  assumed  that  the  range  and  water  heater  in- 
stallation will  not  exceed  a  maximum  of  43^  kilowatts  and  will 
operate  at  110  volts,  thus  requiring  40.9  amperes  (none  induc- 
tive). Accordingly,  the  voltage  drop  will  be  R  x  1  x  feet,  divided 
by  1000. 

With  No.  4  wire,  the  voltage  drop  on  the  43/2  kw.  installation, 
1000  feet  distant,  will  equal  20.3  or  0.0203  volt  drop  per  range 
foot.  With  No.  2  wire,  the  voltage  drop  on  a  43^  kw.  installa- 
tion, 1000  feet  distant,  would  equal  12.76  volts  or  0.01276  volt 
drop  per  range  foot. 

Allowing  10  volts  drop  (on  220-volt)  at  center  of  load  on  a 
110/220-volt  balanced  3-wire  secondary  (each  range  to  be  bal- 
anced with  every  other  range  installation  on  this  service),  each 


16. 


15- 


14. 


13. 


12. 


'       II 


Tests  on  Effect  of  Variation  of  Voltage 
in  Heating  Electric  Ran^e  Oven. 

A-Minutes  Required  to  Heat  Oven  to  225°C 
B^Watt  Hours  Consumed. 


10 


300 
290 
280 
270 
260 
250 
240 
230 
220 
210 
200 
190 


108  112  116 

^The  Society  for  Electrical  Development,  Inc. 
This  chart  shows  the  importance  of  maintaining  voltage, 

67 


68  INSTALLATION 


1 


feeder  from  a  transformer  must  have  not  in  excess  of  1000  range 
feet  on  No.  4  wire  at  220-volts  and  not  more  than  1600  range 
feet  on  No.  2  wire  at  220-volts.  ^ 

On  the  straight  110-volt  service,  allowing  5  volts  drop,  the 
allowable  range  feet  for  No.  4  wire  would  be  315,  and  the  allow- 
able range  feet  for  No.  2  wire  would  be  400.  As  an  example  of 
working  out  range  distribution  by  means  of  the  above  data,  the 
following  will  hold  for  a  typical  installation  on  110-volt  service 
from  a  balanced  110/220-volt  3-wire  system: 

Allowing  six  houses  to  the  block  (three  on  each  side  of  the 
street)  and  the  secondary  wiring  extending  only  two  blocks  in 
any  direction  from  the  transformer,  and  assuming  50  percent 
of  these  houses  to  have  ranges  installed,  there  would  be  12x50 
percent  x  1  block  distant  equal  6  ranges  x  300  feet,  which  is 
equal  to  1800  range  feet.  This  exceeds  1600  range  feet  which  is 
the  allowance  for  this  class  of  distribution  on  No.  2  wire.  There- 
fore, the  number  of  ranges  must  be  cut  down  on  this  secondary 
feeder  to  five  installations,  which  would  then  give  1500  range 
feet,  which  is  within  the  limit  for  No.  2  wire  as  specified. 

The  voltage  of  a  range  circuit  should  receive  more  attention 
than  the  voltage  of  the  lighting  circuit.  A  drop  in  voltage  of  a 
lamp  can  be  compensated  by  using  a  lamp  of  higher  wattage  or 
lower  voltage.  But  this  makeshift  cannot  be  carried  out  with  an 
electric  range.  If  the  voltage  drops,  the  cooking  operation  slows 
down.    When  this  occurs,  the  range  operation  is  unsatisfactory. 

The  voltage  should  be  tested  when  a  range  is  installed,  when 
additional  ranges  are  connected  to  the  same  transformer  and 
when  the  customer  makes  a  complaint  about  the  service.  These 
tests  should  be  made  at  the  terminals  of  the  range  with  all  units 
switched  **Fuir'  and  when  the  other  ranges  on  the  same  trans- 
former are  in  use.    Current  should  be  delivered  to  the  range  at 


RECOMMENDATIONS  69 


the  voltage  specified  on  the  nameplate  of  the  range  or  units. 
But  a  variation  of  two  or  three  volts  is  permissible. 

Transformer  Capacities.  Transformer  capacity  need  not 
equal  range  demand  because  a  range  has  so  many  units  that  its 
diversity  factor  is  uncommonly  high. 

The  following  table  may  be  used  in  determining  the  number 
of  ranges  which  can  safely  be  connected  to  a  transformer,  as- 
suming each  range  has  a  maximum  demand  of  5,000  watts: 

Number  of 
ranges 

1 
2 
3 
4 
5 
6 
7 
8  to  11 
12  to  20 

Meter  Sizes.  In  considering  the  proper-sized  meter  for  both 
lighting  and  cooking  current,  the  following  excerpt  which  is 
quoted  from  a  report  issued  by  the  Engineering  Department  of  a 
prominent  manufacturer,  is  informative: 

**Our  meter  will  start  at  approximately  J^  percent  of  full  load 
and  will  record  fairly  accurately  at  1  percent  of  full  load.  It  is 
more  reliable,  however,  on  2  percent  of  full  load  and  we  would 
recommend  that  if  possible,  you  arrange  to  have  the  lowest  load  not 
less  than  2  percent  of  the  rating  of  the  meter.  The  overload  capa- 
city and  overload  accuracy  of  these  meters  will  greatly  facilitate 
this  matter.  The  normal  load  may  be  anywhere  from  50  to  150 
percent  of  the  rating,  and  the  maximum  load  (such  loads  as  are 
seldom  used)  may  be  as  high  as  200  percent  of  the  rating  without 
endangering  the  meter.  Of  course  the  meter  is  a  little  slow  on  200 
percent  load. 


Size  of 

Transformer 

5     KVA 

5 

»> 

7>^ 

>> 

73^ 

>> 

7.H 

» 

7y2 

» 

7H 

) 

10 

y 

15 

' 

70  INSTALLATION 


"The  losses  in  the  potential  circuit  of  these  meters  are  between 
1.0  and  1.1 .  The  loss  in  the  15 -ampere  current  coil  is  0.87  watts  at 
full  load,  that  of  the  25-ampere  is  1.07  watts,  and  the  50-ampere 
has  a  loss  of  2.7  watts. 

"The  overload  capacities  of  these  meters  are  quite  liberal.  As 
stated  before,  200  percent  load  almost  continuously  will  not  damage 
any  of  these.  They  will  certainly  stand  50  percent  overload  con- 
tinuously or  even  more.  The  5  and  10-ampere  meters  have  even 
more  overload  capacity  than  the  15-ampere  meters  and  above. 
These  meters  will  practically  stand  400  percent  load  almost  con- 
tinuously while  the  15-ampere  meter  will  be  damaged  somewhere 
around  300  percent  load." 

The  following  tabulation  shows  the  results  that  will  be  secured 
from  different-sized  new  meters  with  small  loads: 

Watt  Load       Percent  Load  on  a  lO-amp       Percent 

3 -wire  Meter  Registration 

15  .68  96 

20  .91  100 


Percent  Load  on  a  IS-amp 

3 -wire  Meter 

15 

0.45 

68 

20 

0.60 

Percent  Load  on  a  25-amp 
3-wire  Meter 

90 

15 

0.27 

16 

20 

0.36 

46 

Testing  the  Range.  Before  a  range  leaves  the  central  station 
storeroom,  it  should  be  completely  assembled,  thoroughly  exam- 
ined for  loose  bolts  and  nuts,  cleaned  up  and  polished;  all  units 
tested  for  wattage  and  the  oven  "burned  out,"  which  consists 
of  turning  both  units  on  *'Fuir'  for  about  twenty  minutes,  with 
doors  wide  open,  and  burning  off  the  parafine  which  the  manu- 
facturer is  obliged  to  put  on  the  units  and  oven  lining  as  a  pro- 
tection against  rusting  in  transit. 


CHAPTER  VI 

MERCHANDISING  METHODS 

First  Important  Steps 

General  Basic  Factors.  Before  entering  range  merchandising, 
the  central  station  must  recognize  and  accept  several  important 
fundamentals  and  accomplish  certain  work  which  underlies  the 
successful  development  of  the  cooking  load: 

1 .  Realize  all  the  factors  in  the  work  of  revolutionizing  the  local 
cooking  methods — the  time,  sound  merchandising,  persistent 
advertising  and  100^/{)  central  station  service  involved, 

2.  Recognize  in  the  range  a  heavy  load  builder  different  from  any 
other  domestic  or  commercial  current  consumer;  one  which 
will  demand  the  gradual  rearrangement  of  the  lines  based  on 
future  requirements  for  several  years. 

3.  Secure  the  enthusiastic  co-operation  of  every  department  of 
the  company. 

4.  Sell  an  electric  range  to  every  "electrical' *  man  in  the  town. 

Revolutionizing  Cooking  Methods.  Changing  cooking  meth- 
ods which  have  been  practiced  for  years  is  not  an  easy  task.  It 
cannot  be  done  by  a  hurry-up  campaign  or  with  any  prospect 
of  saturating  the  locality  with  electric  ranges  in  a  very  short 
time. 

The  majority  of  homes  have  good  fuel  stoves.  So  the  initial 
field  for  the  electric  range  lies  in  new  business — new  residences, 
apartments,   restaurants,    clubs.   Summer   colonies   and   similar 

71 


72  MERCHANDISING  METHODS 

places  where  the  owners  are  in  the  market  for  cooking  equip- 
ment. Of  course  a  large  percentage  of  electric  ranges  sold  today 
have  superseded  fuel  ranges  which  were  in  excellent  condition. 
But  during  the  first  few  months  of  sales  effort,  it  is  better  to 
concentrate  on  the  better  developed  prospects  in  the  market. 

These  sales  will  be  the  easiest  to  secure  and  will,  with  steady 
educational  advertising,  consistent  sales  effort  and  efficient  cen- 
tral station  service  pave  the  way  for  more  business.  Gradually 
the  existing  fuel  stoves  will  be  discarded  and  replaced  by  electric 
ranges.  In  a  few  years  the  town  will  reach  a  high  percentage 
of  saturation  and  the  central  station  will  reap  the  harvest  of  the 
missionary  work  which  is  required  in  the  beginning. 

Co-operation  of  Entire  Company.  After  the  executives  and 
the  Sales  Department  have  analyzed  the  range  load,  studied  the 
plant  and  distribution  system,  investigated  the  sales  possibilities 
and  decided  to  take  the  inevitable  step,  the  first  move  is  to  hold 
a  conference  of  the  officers,  superintendents  and  heads  of  de- 
partments— preferably  preceded  by  a  dinner  which  will  put  them 
in  a  receptive  attitude. 

The  purpose  of  the  meeting  is  to  ''sell"  the  idea  to  all  present, 
the  rearrangement  of  the  system  to  the  Engineering  Department, 
the  handling  of  the  load  and  the  effect  on  the  operating  cost  to 
the  Operating  Department,  the  billing  and  the  time-payment 
accounts  to  the  Accounting  Department  and  so  on  through  the 
different  divisions  of  the  company.  Each  department  is  then 
instructed  to  prepare  reports  on  anticipated  conditions  and 
costs  for  the  benefit  of  the  manager.  And  finally  the  Sales 
Department  must  have  the  estimated  appropriation  approved 
by  the  executives. 

The  Engineering  and  Operating  Departments  should  prepare 


FIRST  IMPORTANT  STEPS  73 

data  on  alterations,  operating  costs  and  estimate  such  items  as 
the  time  required  to  get  new  equipment.  The  Accounting  De- 
partment should  submit  costs  on  the  additional  bookkeeping; 
and  a  statement  of  the  amount  the  company  can  afford  to  invest 
in  new  equipment,  merchandising  and  advertising.  And  the 
Service  Department  should  estimate  installation  and  mainte- 
nance costs. 

Selling  Every  **ElectricaV^  Man.  The  first  step  in  selling  is  to 
get  a  range  in  the  home  of  every  ''electrical''  man  in  the  town — 
from  the  president  of  the  central  station  to  the  smallest  elec- 
trical dealer.  Electric  ranges  are  sold  to  the  public  on  what  users 
and  ''electrical  friends"  say  about  them. 

Every  man  in  the  electrical  business  is  supposed  to  know 
about  the  facts  and  figures  of  the  industry.  .So  he  is  always 
asked  "confidentially"  by  his  friends  whether  the  electric  range 
is  as  practicable  and  inexpensive  as  the  salesman  states.  Some- 
times he  knows;  often  he  does  not.    But  he  will  if  he  owns  one. 

Price  and  Selling  Policies 

Price  Maintenance.  The  greatest  mistake  in  range  mer- 
chandising today  is  selling  below  manufacturers'  list  prices.  It 
is  a  false  policy  because  it  deliberately  takes  the  legitimate  profit 
from  one  department  to  add  a  smaller  one  to  another  and  bases 
the  sales  angle  on  the  price  appeal  which  never  sold  a  range. 
Moreover  it  is  unnecessary  because  electric  ranges  have  no 
standardized  price. 

The  Sales  Department  is  a  separate  and  distinct  organization 
from  the  Operating  Department.  Its  functions,  budgets  and 
equipment  have  nothing  whatsoever  to  do  with  the  other.  So 
sales  expenses  should  not  be  borne  by  the  Operating  Depart- 


74  MERCHANDISING  METHODS 

ment.  This  department  should  show  a  profit  and  there  is  no 
reason  why  the  Sales  Department  should  not  be  self-supporting. 

Suppose  a  range  plus  the  standardized  price  for  installation 
costs  the  central  station  $130.  The  selling  price  to  the  customer — 
whether  the  first  or  the  last  one  in  the  town — should  be  about 
$150.  But  many  central  stations  sell  the  range  for  $115  or 
$120 — **as  an  introductory  offer."  The  resulting  impression  on 
the  purchaser  is  that  the  range  is  not  worth  its  full  price.  The 
effect  on  the  central  station  is  a  loss  of  $30  to  $35,  an  amount 
which  would  help  sell  three  or  four  additional  ranges  and  pro- 
tect and  encourage  the  contractor-dealer  and  the  other  sales 
channels.  See  Contractor-dealer^ s  Position,  page  124.  Range  sales 
will  be  just  as  numerous  whether  made  at  a  profit  or  a  loss. 
This  has  been  demonstrated  by  the  experience  of  many  central 
stations. 

The  difference  between  $120  and  $150  is  just  a  state  of 
mind — and  nine  times  out  of  ten  it  is  the  central  station  which 
thinks  the  price  is  too  high.  It  is  just  as  easy  to  get  $150  as  $120 
when  selling  a  device  which  has  no  standardized  price.  Pur- 
chasers do  not  know  whether  the  range  installed  is  worth  $120 
or  $220.  All  they  know  about  it  is  what  the  salesman  tells 
them.  If  he  tells  them  the  real  facts  in  diplomatic  sales  language, 
they  will  want  the  range.  And  when  they  want  a  range  they  will 
buy  it — buy  it  because  they  want  it  and  not  because  $30  has 
been  taken  off  of  the  legitimate  price! 

Merchandising  Problems.  Maintain  one  price  to  everyone. 
Showing  favoritism  breeds  bad  feeling.  Don't  sell  more  ranges 
than  can  be  quickly  installed  and  given  prompt  service  of  every 
kind.  Maintain  just  one  installation  arrangement.  Some  central 
stations  give  the  purchaser  a  choice  of  two  plans.     The  service 


PRICE  AND  SELLING  POLICIES  75 

department  will  do  it  or  the  local  contractor  will  do  it.  It  is  a 
bad  policy  because  it  puts  it  up  to  the  customer  who  does  not 
know  which  is  better. 

The  cost  of  the  wiring  can  advantageously  be  included  in  the 
price  of  the  range.  This  will  save  the  salesman  the  difficult 
task  of  selling  the  wiring — and  making  two  sales  instead  of  one. 
Another  difficult  problem  is  overcoming  the  impression  that  the 
cost  of  operation  is  high.  It  is  solved  by  establishing  a  flat  charge 
for  the  first  thirty  days  and  in  having  a  capable  demonstrator 
teach  the  housewife  the  economical  use  of  the  range. 

Other  policies  which  must  be  decided  upon  are:  Time  pay- 
ments, trial  installations,  introductory  offers.  Problems  that 
will  arise  are:  Higher  operating  cost,  water  and  kitchen  heating 
and  the  slower-than-gas-operation.  These  last  four  points  are 
discussed  under  Overcoming  Obstacles,  page  145.  Each  will  be 
dependent  upon  and  governed  by  local  conditions. 

Time  Payments.  A  time-payment  policy  is  necessary  when 
selling  to  the  poorer  classes  and  it  is  often  an  alluring  inducement 
to  the  middle  classes  as  *'the  small  monthly  payment  added  to 
the  light  bill  is  never  noticed." 

A  state  of  mind  exists  today  in  which  people  think  they  cannot 
afford  to  pay  out  more  than  $5,  $10  or  $20  at  one  time.  But  they 
will  keep  on  paying  a  small  amount  indefinitely — if  they  don't 
have  to  give  up  very  much  in  one  payment.   This  bit  of  psychol- 


"nPHE  PUBLIC  no  more  expects  a  bonus  or  a  cut 
*  price  on  the  electric  range  than  it  would  expect 
trading  stamps  on  a  Packard."  Central  Stations 
have  found  that  the  best  sales  policy  is  to  sell  ranges 
at  the  manufacturer's  list  price  plus  a  profitable 
standard  installation  charge. 


76  MERCHANDISING  METHODS 

ogy  has  sold  thousands  of  homes,  automobiles,  pianos,  victrolas 
and  other  expensive  articles. 

It  is  much  easier  to  sell  $150  ranges  on  monthly  payments  of 
$10  than  $100  ranges  on  payments  of  $20.  So  a  time  payment 
policy  must  be  established  to  increase  range  sales.  With  such  a 
policy,  5  percent  will  be  added  to  the  selling  price  for  interest, 
bookkeeping  and  other  expenses.  The  majority  of  companies 
ask  for  10  to  20  percent  as  the  initial  payment  and  the  balance 
paid  in  six  to  twelve  installments. 

Trial  Installations.  A  range  sale  like  every  other  sale  is  based 
on  confidence.  As  the  range  is  a  new  device,  women  are  naturally 
skeptical  as  to  its  practicability  and  operating  cost.  Therefore 
trial  installations  are  often  necessary  to  prove  to  the  prospect 
that  the  range  is  all  that  it  is  claimed  to  be.  This  policy  shows 
also  that  the  central  station  has  enough  confidence  in  the  range  to 
permit  the  prospect  to  try  it  and  buy  after  actual  experience. 

Trial  installations  however  should  not  be  advertised  nor  urged 
upon  anyone  who  happens  to  show  interest  in  the  range.  They 
should  only  be  suggested  to  responsible  prospects  who  have  been 
50%  sold.  Promiscuous  installations  for  women  who  **will  try 
anything  once*'  just  for  the  novelty  is  an  expensive  proposition 
for  the  central  station. 

In  other  words,  trial  installations  must  be  made — but  the 
prospects  should  be  selected  with  care  to  avoid  curiosity  seekers. 
Make  every  sale  or  trial  a  personal  matter.  Avoid  irresponsible 
requests  for  such  an  installation  by  some  plausible  excuse,  such 
as  depleted  stock-  This  will  usually  discourage  the  whimsical 
woman.  When  a  trial  has  been  granted,  no  restriction  nor  red 
tape  should  be  attached  to  the  contract.  The  length  of  a  trial 
is  usually  30  days.  A  trial  payment  of  at  least  $10  should  be 
exacted,  which,  if  the  range  is  accepted,  is  applied  on  the  price. 


PRICE  AND  SELLING  POLICIES  77 


This  trial  payment  should  include  (cover)  the  first  month's 
current  bill,  therefore  no  meter  connection  is  necessary.  If  pre- 
sented in  the  proper  way  this  has  the  appearance  of  offering  the 
first  month's  current  free.  This  is  certainly  attractive  to  the 
new  owner  of  the  range  and  she  will  undoubtedly  feel  a  certain 
amount  of  freedom  in  conducting  her  experiments  and  getting 
used  to  the  range  without  paying  for  any  extra  current  that  may 
be  consumed  by  so  doing.  This  can  be  used  as  a  very  attractive 
offer  and  to  good  advantage  in  closing  the  deal. 

If  the  customer  orders  the  range  removed  at  the  end  of  30 
days,  the  demonstrator  should  try  to  restore  her  confidence  or 
correct  any  wrong  impressions.  But  if  the  customer  is  firm  in 
the  request,  the  range  should  be  removed  quickly  without  hag- 
gling. In  trial  installations  made  to  date,  probably  90%  have 
been  retained  which  proves  that  the  range  fulfills  all  claims. 
Introductory  Offers.  Introductory  offers  are  necessary  at 
times,  but  they  should  not  be  in  the  form  of  cut  prices,  for 
the  reasons  explained  under  Price  Maintenance^  page  73.  Women 
cannot  resist  buying  when  they  get  something  **freeVso  it  is  oft- 
times  a  profitable  plan  to  add  $10  to  the  selling  price  and  make 
some  "special"  allowance  on  old  stoves,  or  include  a  **free"  water 
heater  or  a  ''free"  set  of  combination  utensils,  or  a  set  of  dishes, 
a  grill,  toaster,  percolator  or  other  appliance.  But  do  not  cut 
the  price.  A  bargain  price  is  never  half  as  tempting  as  something 
given  ''free"  with  the  purchase. 

Miscellaneous  Policies.  Range  salesmen  should  not  be  obliged 
to  divide  their  time  and  effort  on  the  sale  of  other  appliances.  The 
Sim's  rays  do  not  burn  until  brought  to  a  focus — and  neither  is 
a  range  salesman's  work  effective  until  he  is  able  to  concentrate 
on  ranges.  If  two  men  are  selling  ranges  and  appliances,  the 
better  plan  is  to  have  each  man  specialize. 


78  •  MERCHANDISING  METHODS 

When  an  electric  range  supersedes  a  fuel  stove,  the  best  plan 
is  to  allow  a  small  amount  on  the  fuel  range  and  remove  it  as 
quickly  as  possible.  This  act  destroys  the  possibility  of  the 
woman  going  back  to  the  old  stove — to  *'warm  up''  the  kitchen, 
because  the  month's  electric  bill  was  too  high  or  for  any  other 
reason.  This  is  not  only  safeguarding  against  any  whimiscality, 
but  insures  a  365  days'  use  of  the  electric  range  which  is  less 
likely  if  a  fuel  range  is  handy  and  can  be  used.  The  old  fuel 
ranges  can  be  sold  in  territories  where  electric  service  is  not 
available — or  if  they  are  worn  out  they  can  be  sold  for  old  iron. 

Setting  a  bogy  sometimes  gives  the  sales  organization  a  pace  to 
follow — a  factor  which  will  do  more  to  insure  the  success  of  the 
range  merchandising  than  any  other  single  element.  It  will  act 
as  a  stimulant  to  the  salesmen  and  a  guide  to  the  commercial 
manager.  This  bogy  should  be  pro -rated  by  months — the  first 
month  demanding  the  lowest  number  of  sales  and  the  last  month 
of  the  year  the  largest  number — because  of  the  accumulated 
effect  of  the  missionary  work  and  the  sales  which  will  be  made 
from  the  first  few  installations.  Adding  a  bonus  for  exceeding 
the  figure  will  also  be  found  useful. 

Sales  Department  Work 

Organization.  The  size  of  the  sales  department  will  depend 
on  the  size  of  the  central  station  and  the  population  served. 
Assuming  the  central  station  has  an  exclusive  field  in  a  town  of 
30,000  population,  its  sales  organization  might  well  consist  of 
the  sales  manager,  a  home  and  an  exhibit  demonstrator  and 
three  or  four  salesmen  or  saleswomen.  If  special  campaigns  are 
conducted  in  the  Summer,  a  good  plan  is  to  engage  college  stu- 
dents as  ''prospect  hunters." 

The   sales   department   should   sell    100%    Satisfaction   with 


SALES  DEPARTMENT  WORK  79 

each  range.  This  should  be  the  underlying  principle  of  every 
sale.  As  other  departments  do  not  come  in  direct  contact  with 
the  people,  they  are  likely  to  forget  the  sentiment,  psychology 
and  other  vital  elements  in  the  harmonious  relationship  between 
the  customer  and  the  central  station.  For  this  reason  every 
other  department  should  be  subordinate  to  and  under  the  direc- 
tion of  the  sales  department  when  it  is  necessary. 
Sales  Manager's  Position.  The  sales  manager  is  responsible 
for  the  sales,  for  his  salespeople,  for  the  advertising,  demonstra- 
tions, follow-up  work,  installation,  service,  maintenance  and  the 
company's  good-will.    In  a  few  words,  his  duties  are  to: 

Analyze  sales  possibilities 

Make  a  map  of  the  distribution  system 

Draw  chart  and  classify  sections  of  town 

Lay  out  complete  sales  plan  for  the  year 

Estimate  selling  cost 

Establish  a  sales  bogy 

Prepare  price  and  selling  policies  for  approval 

Choose  the  types  of  ranges  to  be  sold 

Employ  salesmen  and  demonstrators 

Put  them  through  their  educational  course 

Complete  details  for  advertising 

Make  arrangements  for  demonstrations 

Sell  a  range  to  every  "electrical"  man 

Co-operate  with  the  contractor-dealer 

Get  department  and  hardware  stores  to  display  ranges 

Approve  all  salesmen's  plans 

Report  weekly  progress  to  general  manager 
His  first  move  should  be  to  analyze  local  financial,  commercial 
and  economic  conditions,  all  of  which  will  have  an  influence  on 
his  sales.  If  business  is  depressed,  he  will  want  a  less  elaborate 
merchandising  plan  than  he  would  if  prosperity  was  at  its  height. 
As  a  domestic  trade  barometer,  he  should  study  the  sales  charts 
of  the  largest  local  department  store. 


80 


MERCHANDISING  METHODS 


THE    HEAT -CHASERS 


Total 
Range 
Sales 
Standing  District  Salesmaa  Allotment 

1  Denison    H.  H.  Stanfield 20 

2  Tyler    _S.  J.  Fechenbach _ 55 

3  Eagle   Pass  ...A.  B.  Hillan 95 

4  Terrell    Harry  Hind 96 

5  Commerce  ...-H.  L..Cadwallader _.143 

6  McKinncy   Harry    Hind 185 

7  Cleburne    H     L.   Barnes 82 

8  Hillsboro L.  D.  Wittkower 266 

9  Ennis    Otis   Wilbor  Z2A 

10  Sherman H.   H.  Stanfield 24 

11  Bonham C.  W-.  McCutcheon 150 

VI    Waxahachie    --J.   H    Simpson 200 

13  Taylor    Jeff   Murphy   308 

14  Sweetwater  — H.  A.  Spencer 246 

15  Temple     C.  M    Depuy 

R     W    Snyder. _ 356 

16  Palestine    S.    J     Fechenbach -50 

17  Brownwood    . -R.  B    Clarkson 115 

18  Paris   H.  V    Appkbaugh 50 

19  Gainesville    ...H    H.   Stanfield 19 

20  Waco    H.    L.    McLean 41 

21  Wichita  Falls. -Manager   51 


To  be                         Point* 
Sold                        Earned 
during       Range     (basis 
1917     Contracts  Contracts 
Campaign  Secured  Secured) 

17 

.9 

529.20 

52 

2Z 

442.75 

75 

32 

427.20 

9o 

37 

385.39 

132 

49 

370.93 

170 

63 

370.56 

77 

27 

351.00 

249 

86 

344.86 

214 

73 

340.90 

21 

7 

333.20 

137 

42 

305.76 

189 

49 

258.72 

261 

62 

237.46 

219 

50 

228.50 

305 

65 

213.07 

48 

9 

187.29 

109 

15 

137.55 

47 

5 

106.50 

16 

I 

62.50 

41 

0 

0, 

43 

0 

0. 

2776      2518        704        5633.34 


March  1st  to  Sept.  30.  

Days  of  campaign  passed  to  July  5th.. 
Per  cent  of  campaign  period  passed.. 

1917    range    allotment. 

Ranges  sold  March  1st  to  July  5th 

Per  cent  of  range  allotment  sold 

Ranges  yet  to  be  sold 

Campaiga   days    remainmg 


MUST  GO  at  rate  of  14  per  day.  or  98  per  week. 


Page  from  the  bi-weekly  company  magazine  of  the  Texas 
Power  &  Light  Co.  showing  how  they  energize  the  range 
salesman  and  maintain  general  company  interest  in 
range  sales  during  the  season  by  publishing  the  progress 
of  each  man  on  the  sales  force.  This  idea  proved  to  be  a 
real  sales  stimulator. 


SALES  DEPARTMENT  WORK  81 

Remember  the  range  is  not  sl  seasonable  proposition.  Everyone 
thought  so  once.  But  they  were  mistaken.  Today  electric 
ranges  are  sold  twelve  months  of  the  year  where  sound  mer- 
chandising effort  is  maintained. 

Therefore  initial  sales  work  should  be  focused  on  prospects  who 
are  in  the  market  or  whose  position  and  prosperity  favor  a  sale. 
The  readiest  market  consists  of  new  apartment  house  owners, 
families  moving  into  their  own  homes  and  owners  of  worn-out 
stoves.  The  prospects  whose  financial  condition  is  good  are  de- 
termined in  another  way.  For  example:  If  it  is  harvest  time, 
the  agricultural  people  are  more  inclined  to  spend  money  than 
those  interested  in  the  manufacturing  or  selling  of  farm  imple- 
ments, paints  or  similar  products  which  are  bought  principally 
in  the  Spring. 

-The  sales  manager  should  lay  out  a  map  of  the  distribution 
system  so  that  he  may  always  have  before  him  a  knowledge  of 
his  extensions,  their  boundaries  and  the  location  and  size  of  his 
transformers.  This  map  together  with  a  sales  chart  will  graphic- 
ally show  him  where  and  where  not  to  direct  his  sales  effort. 
See  Prospects  and  Follow- Up  Work,  page  105. 

He  prepares  a  complete  sales  plan  for  the  year  including  both 
domestic  and  commercial  effort  as  he  should  include  restaurants, 
hotels  and  clubs  as  well  as  homes. 

In  estimating  the  cost,  the  factors  involved  are: 
Salaries  of  the  salesmen  and  demonstrators 
Cost  of  advertising,  demonstrations,  displays,  etc. 
Percentage  of  his  salary 
Percentage  of  rent  and  other  overhead 

After  estimating  the  cost  for  the  year,  he  should  set  a  reason- 
able sales  bogy,  the  number  of  range  sales  necessary  to  absorb 
this  sales  cost  and  show  a  profit  when  they  are  sold  at  manufac- 
turers' list  prices.    This  method  of  distributing  the  entire  sales 


82  MERCHANDISING  METHODS 


1 


cost  over  a  period  of  time  will  reduce  the  merchandising  cost  per 
range  during  the  first  two  or  three  months.  The  first  range  will 
always  be  the  most  expensive  and  the  most  difficult  to  sell  but 
the  cost  and  effort  will  be  reduced  with  each  sale. 

Price  and  selling  policies  must  be  determined.  See  Price  and 
Selling  Policies,  page  73.  Ranges  must  be  ordered.  Care 
should  be  taken  in  selecting  the  ranges.  In  fact  greater  care  than 
in  the  selection  of  any  other  current-consuming  device  because 
an  electric  range  can  do  more  to  increase  or  decrease  the  prestige 
of  the  central  station  than  any  other  appliance.  Buy  on  merit. 
Ask  other  sales  managers  which  makes  they  have  found  reliable. 
Employ  real  salesmen.  See  Salesmen  and  Demonstrators,  page 
87.    Educate  them.    Plan  demonstrations. 

Handling  salesmen  is  another  important  duty.  Advice  is  more 
effective  than  criticism.  Always  request  rather  than  command. 
Remember  the  power  of  kindness.  Keep  up  enthusiasm.  See 
that  the  salesroom  and  show  windows  and  all  other  factors  in 
the  merchandising  are  kept  alive.  Sales  activities  are  inclined 
to  slow  down  if  there  is  not  some  power  behind  them  which 
continually  injects  new  interest,  new  enthusiasm  and  new  punch. 

During  the  first  few  months  it  is  well  to  approve  all  plans  of 
the  salesmen  and  demonstrators  so  that  no  indiscreet  action 
will  be  taken.  Mistakes  will  happen  but  many  can  be  avoided 
by  keeping  in  close  touch  with  everyone  in  the  sales  organization. 

Establish  a  co-operative  plan  with  the  contractor-dealer,  the 
hardware  and  department  stores  whereby  they  will  exhibit 
ranges  and  receive  a  commission  for  selling  or  a  certain  amount 
for  the  names  of  prospects  who  become  purchasers.  Read  Con- 
tractor-Dealer^ s  Position,  page  124. 

Before  firing  the  opening  gun  of  the  campaign,  a  range  should 
be  sold  to  every  possible  employe,  every  electrical  jobber  and 


SALES  DEPARTMENT  WORK  83 

contractor-dealer;  also  every  influential  man  whose  name  may- 
be used  in  testimonial  advertising.  Sell  ranges  to  the  owners 
and  managers  of  restaurants,  hotels,  clubs  and  similar  places  to 
pave  the  way  for  sales  of  larger  equipment  to  these  establish- 
ments. In  other  words,  lay  a  foundation  both  in  a  domestic 
and  commercial  way  before  starting  the  actual  campaign. 

When  all  final  arrangements  have  been  made  issue  a  bulletin 
for  the  employes  describing  the  entire  sales  plan,  the  range, 
the  rate,  introductory  offers,  discounts,  commissions  to  them 
and  any  other  information  which  they  should  know  to  be  able 
to  answer  simple  questions  about  the  rate  or  the  range.  Also 
see  that  every  employe  receives  a  copy  of  each  piece  of  advertis- 
ing as  it  is  issued. 

Each  week  a  general  report  of  progress  should  be  composed 
for  the  general  manager.  Other  duties  of  the  sales  manager 
are  included  under  other  sub-headings  in  this  chapter  on  Mer- 
chandising Methods. 

Salesmen's  Work.  Each  salesman  is  given  a  certain  section  of 
the  town  or  territory  for  which  he  is  directly  responsible.  His 
work  lies  primarily  in  changing  Class  C  Prospects  into  Class  B 
Prospects  and  Class  B  Prospects  into  Class  A  Prospects — and 
then  into  Purchasers.  See  Prospects  and  FolIow-up-Worky 
page  105.     Concisely  his  duties  consist  of: 

Compiling  a  card  index  of  his  Class  B  and  Class  A  Prospects. 

Sending  them  preliminary  advertising  which  contains  a  coupon 
to    be    returned    for    some    other    folder,    booklet    or     infor- 
mation. 

Getting  his  Class  B  Prospect's  into  his  Class  A  file 

Sending   Class  A  people  advance  literature  and  a  request  that 
he  should  be  allowed  to  make  a  personal  call 

Selling  ranges 

Following  up  installations 

Reporting  weekly  progress  to  sales  manager. 


84  MERCHANDISING  METHODS 

A  salesman  must  employ  his  time  efficiently.  Never  make  a 
personal  call  until  the  Prospect  has  received  range  literature  and 
knows  a  few  things  at  least  about  electric  cookery.  Remember 
a  personal  call  costs  twenty  times  as  much  as  a  folder  or  booklet. 

Upon  calling,  the  salesman  must  ascertain  the  way  the  woman 
can  be  sold:  By  recommendation  of  a  neighbor,  through 
demonstration  at  the  electric  shop,  by  a  trial  installation  in  her 
home  or  some  other  means.  After  a  contract  has  been  signed, 
the  salesman  should  get  a  definite  promise  from  the  service  de- 
partment as  to  the  day  and  hour  of  the  installation.  Arrange- 
ments should  then  be  made  for  the  home  demonstrator  to  be 
there  when  the  service  is  turned  on. 

Telephone  the  purchaser  once  or  twice  to  learn  if  the  range  is 
giving  satisfactory  service,  how  it  is  liked  and  whether  he  can 
be  of  service.  Make  it  clear  that  the  central  station  will  do 
everything  possible.  If  possible,  however,  a  personal  call  at  the 
home  is  much  more  satisfactory. 

For  methods  of  securing  prospects,  see  Prospects  and  Follow- 
up  Work,  page  105.  For  sales  methods  see  Selling  Points,  page 
128.  For  general  knowledge  read  the  entire  book.  The  merchan- 
dising and  service  chapters  are  absolutely  necessary;  and  the 
technical  chapters  are  written  in  non-technical  language  and 
contain  essential  points  about  the  station  system  and  the  work 
of  the  operating  men  which  are  helpful  in  sales  work. 

Demonstrators'  Duties.  The  work  of  the  home  demonstrator 
is  described  under  Educating  the  New  User,  page  175.  The  work 
of  the  demonstrator  who  conducts  the  public  cooking  demon- 
strations is  described  under  Displays  and  Demonstrations,  page 
94.  The  qualifications  of  both  are  discussed  under  Salesmen  and 
Demonstrators,  page  87. 


SALES  DEPARTMENT  WORK  85 

Merchandising  Throughout  a  Territory.  Selling  ranges  in  a 
number  of  small  towns  demands  a  somewhat  different  mer- 
chandising plan.  The  territory  should  be  divided  into  sections 
which  are  put  in  charge  of  local  managers  who  report  to  the 
sales  manager  in  the  executive  office. 

After  the  campaign  has  been  well  started  in  the  home  city,  a 
combination  technical  and  commercial  man  should  go  ahead  to 
the  first  town  selected  and  prepare  the  field  for  the  coming  of 
the  sales  crew  which  should  consist  of  a  salesman  and  a  demon- 
strator. This  man  educates  the  local  manager  and  the  wiremen, 
sees  that  the  ranges  arrive  and  puts  on  the  advertising  cam- 
paign which  announces  the  coming  demonstration. 

When  the  sales  crew  arrive  and  take  charge  of  the  situation 
this  advance  man  goes  on  to  the  next  community.  The  sales 
people  continue  the  advertising,  conduct  the  demonstrations, 
sell  as  many  ranges  as  they  can  during  the  three  or  four  weeks 
of  their  visit  and  lay  out  the  future  activities  for  the  local  man- 
ager who  will  continue  the  work  with  the  aid  of  an  assistant 
and  a  good  cook,  preferably  one  who  is  well  known  in  the  town. 

As  the  work  of  this  salesman  and  demonstrator  usually  in- 
volves long  time-consuming  trips  on  visits  to  homes  widely 
separated  both  before  and  after  the  purchase,  many  companies 
have  found  it  profitable  to  furnish  these  people  with  light  auto- 
mobiles which  increase  the  efficiency  of  the  crew  from  40%  to 
60%. 

Service  Department  Duties 

Organization.  The  organization  of  the  Range  Service  Depart- 
ment should  be  composed  of  conscientious,  courteous  men  who 
understand  and  always  maintain  that  necessary  ''At-your- 
service''   attitude  toward  the  public.     Before  activities  begin, 


86  MERCHANDISING  METHODS 

the  repair  men  and  wiremen  should  be  given  three  talks: 
First  by  the  manufacturers'  salesmen  who  will  describe  the  con- 
struction and  operation  of  the  ranges;  second,  by  the  chief 
engineer  who  will  give  them  the  fundamentals  of  range  installa- 
tion with  the  transformer,  meter  and  wire  sizes  which  he  has 
adopted  as  standard;  third;  a  talk  by  the  sales  manager  on  the 
importance  of  Service,  featuring  the  point  that  the  service  de- 
partment is  more  important  in  the  sale  of  a  range  than  the  sales 
department.  These  service  men  should  be  specialists  and  not 
handle  other  work.  They  should  familiarize  themselves  with 
Chapter  Five  on  Installation  and  Chapter  Nine  on  Service  and 
Maintenance, 

Specific  Work.  The  service  department  should  be  prepared 
to  install  a  range  promptly  after  the  sale  is  made.  Half  the  joy 
of  a  purchase  is  in  immediate  delivery — particularly  to  a  woman. 
As  Service  is  what  the  central  station  is  selling,  this  prompt 
installation  is  one  phase  of  it  which  creates  a  good  impression. 
If  the  delivery  cannot  be  made  within  forty-eight  hours,  a  defin- 
ite promise  which  can  he  fulfilled  should  be  given  as  to  the  day 
and  hour  of  the  installation  and  the  availability  of  the  service. 

Before  delivering  a  range  to  the  home,  it  should  be  set  up  in 
the  warehouse,  all  nuts  and  bolts  tightened  and  each  surface 
and  oven  unit  tested.  The  oven  should  be  ''burned  out"  to  save 
the  housewife  this  inconvenience,  much  current  and  from  smok- 
ing up  her  kitchen. 

For  two  or  three  months,  a  frequent  periodical  examination 
of  the  range  should  be  made  to  see  that  it  is  in  perfect  condi- 
tion. Ofttimes  a  terminal  connection  will  become  loosened  and 
the  unit  therefore  is  unable  to  give  its  maximum  heat.  The 
annoyance  will  be  so  slight  that  the  housewife  does  not  think  it 
important  enough  to  call  a  repair  man.    It  is  the  duty  of  the 


SERVICE  DEPARTMENT  DUTIES  87 

service  department  therefore  to  assume   the   responsibility  of 
discovering  such  necessary  repairs. 

The  repair  division  of  the  service  department  should  carry 
an  adequate  supply  of  range  parts.  See  Range  and  Parts  Stock, 
page  92. 

Salesmen  and  Demonstrators 
Their  Importance.  The  success  of  a  range  campaign  depends 
upon  the  men  and  women  behind  it.  They  represent  the  central 
station.  They  make  or  break  sales  through  their  diplomacy. 
They  are  the  connecting  link  between  the  signature  line  and  the 
prospect's  fountain  pen.  So  the  sales  manager  should  know  how 
to  pick  his  salespeople. 

Women  can  best  conduct  the  demonstrations  and  instruct  the 
new  owners  in  electric  cookery.  Few  women  feel  that  men  know 
anything  about  this  art.  And  fewer  still  will  permit  a  man  to  tell 
them  how  to  cook.  Both  salesmen  and  demonstrators  should 
completely  read  this  book  for  it  does  not  contain  a  fact  which 
will  not  help  them  in  their  work. 

The  Salesman.  A  successful  range  salesman  must  first  k^ow 
salesmanship!  Moreover  he  should  be  a  higher-type  of  man  than 
the  salesman  behind  the  counter.  He  must  know  the  construc- 
tion, operation,  service  and  product  of  the  electric  range  and  other 
cooking  devices.  He  must  know  the  cooking  rate  and  how  it  is 
figured;  how  this  low  rate  is  justified;  how  to  cook  some  of  the 
simple  popular  foods  and  the  advantages  and  prices  of  all  other 
electrical  appliances.  Furthermore  he  ought  to  know  something 
about  housekeeping,  home -making  and  domestic  routine  to  be 
able  to  make  a  human  appeal  to  women  buyers. 

In  selecting  salesmen  study  their  attitude  of  mind.  Learn  if 
they  think  clearly,  cleanly;  are  healthy  in  body;  can  inspire 
confidence.  Learn  if  they  like  to  sell;  learn  the  possibility  of  their 


REASONS  GIVEN 


NUMBER  OF  ANSWERS 


INDIFFERENCE  OF 
SALESPEOPLE 

AHEMPTSTO 
SUBSTITUTE 

ERRORS 


TRICKr  METHODS 


SLOW  DELIVERIES 

OVER  INSISTENCE 
OF  SALESPEOPLE 

INSOLENCE  OF 
EMPLOYEES 

UNNECESSARY  DE- 
LAYS IN  SERVICE 

TACTLESS  BUSI* 
NESS  POLICIES 

BAD  ARRANGE- 
MENT OF  STORE 

IGNORANCE  OF 
SALESPEOPLE 
ABOUT  GOODS 

REFUSAL  TO 
EXCHANGE 
PURCHASES 

POOR  DUALITY 
OF  GOODS 


5         10        IS        2A       2S        30       35       40        45       50 


WHY  STORES  LOSE  CUSTOMERS 
This  interesting  chart  illustrates  specific  reasons  given  by  100  intelli- 
gent persons  for  withdrawing  their  trade  from  retail  shops.  A  signifi- 
cant fact  worthy  of  note  is  that  the  commonest  reason  is  indifference 
of  sales  people  while  the  poor  quality  of  goods  is  the  least  common 
reason.  Reproduced  from  "Making  Your  Store  Work  for  You" 
published  by  A.  W.  Shaw  Company 


88 


SALESMEN  AND  DEMONSTRATORS  89 

becoming  electric  range  enthusiasts!  Remember  that  men  do 
best  in  the  work  they  Hke  best.  And  the  man  who  is  enthusiastic 
in  his  work  will  naturally  win  people  through  his  enthusiasm 
which  is  always  contagious. 

One  of  the  first  requisites  of  a  salesman  is  courtesy.  He  should 
always  be  considerate,  respectfully  polite,  even  subservient  and 
always  ready  to  do  any  reasonable  thing  to  please.  Another 
requisite  is  a  pleasing  appearance.  He  must  be  clean-shaven, 
well-dressed.  His  appearance  often  governs  the  degree  to  which 
he  is  liked,  and  the  influence  he  can  exert  on  his  prospect.  An 
unshaven,  slovenly-dressed  salesman  cannot  inspire  confidence 
in  any  woman. 

He  must  be  diplomatic.  Opinions,  tastes,  interests  and  view- 
points differ.  So  he  must  (ostensibly  at  least)  conform  to  the 
prospect's  ideas  and  make  her  believe  that  he  thinks  she  is  right. 
He  should  take  it  for  granted — have  it  in  mind  as  a  permanent 
thought — that  she  is  going  to  buy.  One  person  can  be  uncon- 
sciously dominated  by  another  in  thought.  A  person  often 
develops  the  attitude  of  mind,  thought  and  opinion  of  the  one 
talking  to  them.  The  salesman  must  therefore  be  confident 
of  the  sale.  This  thought  in  turn  will  breed  confidence  in  the 
prospect's  mind. 

He  must  be  enthusiastic  and  cheerful.  Someone  has  said: 
**A  green  salesman  will  make  some  sales — but  a  blue  one  hasn't 
a  chance!"  He  must  be  frank.  If  a  customer  asks  whether 
electric  cookery  is  more  expensive  than  fuel  cookery,  he  should 
admit  that  it  is  in  actual  fuel  cost.  She  will  believe  him  and  have 
a  corresponding  faith  in  everything  else  that  he  tells  her.  He 
must  not  be  egotistical.  He  must  not  use  superlatives  and  give 
the  impression  that  the  electric  range  is  the  greatest  thing  in 
the  world.    He  must  remember  that  modesty  by  its  rarity  com- 


90  MERCHANDISING  METHODS 

tnands  attention  and  influences  through  its  fascination.  Boast- 
ing is  repulsive  to  intelligent  people  and  the  salesman  must  not 
talk  too  much  or  appear  to  monopolize  the  conversation. 

Before  a  campaign  begins  it  is  advisable  to  have  the  salesmen 
and  demonstrators  study  the  electric  range  and  read  this  book 
thoroughly.  Moreover  it  is  a  good  policy  to  direct,  edit  and  ap- 
prove the  salesman's  selling  talk  before  he  uses  it.  In  this  way 
the  sales  manager  will  avoid  having  his  men  make  erroneous 
statements  during  sales. 

To  **seir'  a  salesman  on  electric  cookery  is  one  of  the  most  im- 
portant steps  in  a  range  campaign.  Many  central  stations  have 
either  established  or  sent  their  salesmen  to  a  cooking  school  to 
learn  the  fundamentals  of  preparing  food.  In  reality  a  salesman 
is  selling  cookery  and  the  more  he  knows  about  it  the  more  suc- 
cessful he  will  become. 

A  course  like  this  not  only  makes  the  salesmen  more  familiar 
with  the  range  and  the  better  food  it  produces  but  it  stimulates 
interest  and  creates  confidence  that  no  salesman  can  instill  in 
his  prospect  when  he  lacks  it  himself.  An  analysis  of  unsuccessful 
electric  range  salesmen  shows  that  they  themselves  were  not 
absolutely  ''sold''  on  electric  cookery. 

One  prominent  central  station  employs  a  number  of  college 
students  from  a  nearby  university  during  the  summer  months  as 
''prospect  locators."  The  student  is  paid  so  much  an  hour  for 
his  time  and  a  certain  commission  for  range  sales.  He  follows 
up  leads  with  personal  calls,  invites  the  women  down  to  the  show 
room,  making  a  special  appointment  for  them  to  call  at  a  certain 
hour  on  a  certain  day.  If  a  woman  does  not  come  he  telephones 
her  and  makes  another  appointment.  This  procedure  is  followed 
until  he  gets  her  into  the  salesroom  and  into  the  hands  of  a 
demonstrator. 


SALESMEN  AND  DEMONSTRATORS  91 


The  Demonstrator.  Both  classes  of  demonstrators — the  ones 
who  teach  the  woman  in  her  kitchen  and  the  ones  who  conduct 
the  pubUc  demonstrations — should  know  the  principles  of  domestic 
science ;  the  advantages  and  faults  of  all  the  present-day  cooking 
devices ;  the  cooking  rate ;  how  the  bills  are  figured ;  the  technicalities 
of  electric  cookery — and  how  to  talk  diplomatically  to  women! 

When  selecting  demonstrators,  remember  older  women  are 
preferable  because  their  words  and  work  will  have  more  influence, 
be  more  impressive,  and  inspire  more  confidence  than  those  of 
younger  women.  A  woman  at  forty  usually  commands  a  more 
substantial  appeal  than  one  of  twenty  or  even  thirty.  It  is  also  better 
to  secure  local  women  who  are  more  or  less  known  in  the  community. 
Their  initial  work  with  friends  will  be  of  unusual  advantage. 

The  demonstrator's  work  should  be  carefully  planned  and  her 
talk  written  and  standardized  in  collaboration  with  the  sales 
manager.  Her  work  is  described  in  detail  under  Displays  and 
Demonstrations,  page  94. 

The  home  demonstrator  should  call  on  a  new  range  owner  at 
the  time  the  service  is  turned  on — and  before  the  housewife  has  had 
an  opportunity  to  cook  a  meal.  This  demonstrator  follows 
closely  the  instructions  under  Educating  the  New  User, 
page  175.  She  must  know  how  to  influence  without  flattery; 
teach  without  criticism;  educate  without  insult;  instruct  without 
command  and  always  bear  in  mind  that  ''the  customer  is  always 
righV 

Compensation.  During  the  first  few  weeks  of  a  range  campaign 
a  great  deal  of  missionary  work  is  necessary.  Therefore  a  sales- 
man will  often  work  assiduously  and  have  nothing  tangible  to 
show  for  it.  He  therefore  cannot  profitably  work  on  commission 
alone.    He  may  often  be  discouraged  to  a  certain  extent,  so  some 


92  MERCHANDISING  METHODS 

genuine  inspiration  is  necessary  to  maintain  his  enthusiastic 
spirit,  his  aggressiveness  and  his  untiring  sales  effort.  This  can 
not  be  accomplished  by  a  commission  alone.  Therefore  it  is  best 
to  pay  range  salesmen  both  a  salary  and  a  commission — a  small 
salary  to  support  him  and  a  commission  to  inspire  him. 

Range  and  Parts,  Stock 

Adequate  Stock.  Trying  to  sell  ranges  from  a  catalog  is  a  poor 
and  precarious  policy.  It  can  be  done,  but  it  is  unsatisfactory  to 
the  prospect-purchaser,  is  ofttimes  a  serious  obstacle  to  the  sales- 
men and  always  an  example  of  weak  service  which  breeds  a 
negative  impression. 

Two  important  factors  of  a  sale  are :  The  actual  demonstration 
of  the  range  and  its  immediate  delivery.  Very  often  when  a  range 
has  to  be  ordered  from  the  manufacturer  in  a  distant  city  and 
the  purchaser  is  obliged  to  wait  from  one  to  four  weeks  for 
delivery,  she  loses  her  interest,  thinks  she  would  like  to  have  a 
new  dress  or  something  else  instead  of  the  range  and  she  cancels 
her  order.  So  an  adequate  stock — with  several  models  on  the 
floor— is  necessary  in  the  successful  merchandising  of  electric 
ranges. 

Types  and  Makes.  The  majority  of  central  stations  prefer  to  sell 
one  manufacturer's  line  because  it  is  more  satisfactory  to  become 
thoroughly  acquainted  with  one  make  than  superficially  ac- 
quainted with  several  lines.  Other  advantages  are  in  the  stand- 
ardizing of  the  ranges  of  the  town  and  in  securing  one-time 
delivery  of  and  larger  discounts  allowed  for  carload  orders. 
Such  a  policy  also  minimizes  and  simplifies  the  repair  parts, 
stock. 

But  there  are  two  distinct  types  of  electric  ranges :  The  regular 
type  and  the  automatic  type.   The  best  plan  is  to  carry  a  stock  of 


RANGE  AND  PARTS,  STOCK  93 

each  as  some  women  may  have  a  decided  preference.  Women 
are  often  inclined  toward  the  higher-priced  ranges  which  should 
be  borne  in  mind  when  placing  initial  orders.  They  view  cheaper 
electric  ranges  as  they  do  the  cheaper  automobile.  It  has  been 
found  that  when  a  woman  has  been  thoroughly  sold  on  the  idea 
of  electric  cookery  she  wants  the  best  range  on  the  floor — ^with 
white  enamel  splashers,  trimmings  and  other  features. 

Commercial  managers  have  asked  why  manufacturers  make 
so  many  different  types  of  ranges;  why  they  did  not  standardize 
on  two  or  three  types.  Answer :  They  do  this  because  the  demand 
exists.  The  housewives  in  different  communities  have  different 
customs.  For  example,  the  cabinet  type  range — with  medium - 
height  oven — predominates  in  the  big  city.  In  the  small  town, 
women  prefer  the  low-oven  range — probably  through  custom 
more  than  for  any  other  reason.  Then,  other  women  like  the 
elevated  oven.  Some  want  two  ovens.  So  the  demand  is  there — 
and  the  manufacturers  must  meet  it. 

Repair  Parts^  Stock.  As  prompt  and  efficient  service  is  highly 
important,  the  Service  Department  should  carry  at  all  times  an 
ample  supply  of  range  parts:  Surface  and  oven  units,  switches, 
fuses,  resistance  wire  for  repairing  units,  nuts,  bolts,  etc. 


IT  IS  unwise  for  a  range  manufacturer's 
salesman  to  criticise  or  disparage  a  com- 
petitor's range  because  it  has  a  cooker, 
an  automatic  control  or  some  other  attach- 
ment which  his  range  does  not  have.  All 
such  features  are  legitimate.  All  have  a 
purpose.  All  have  a  right  to  their  place  on 
the  range.  Moreover  a  salesman's  company- 
might  adopt  one  or  all  of  these  features 
one  day  and  he  will  have  a  difficult  time 
overcoming  the  things  he  has  said  in  the 
past. 


Displays  and  Public  Demonstrations  ^  «, 

■41 

Variety  of  Displays.  Regular  range  displays  should  be  estab- 
lished in  the  salesroom  and  its  show  windows,  restaurant 
windows,  show  windows  of  vacant  stores,  range  sections  of 
hardware  and  department  stores  and  temporary  displays  in 
home-furnishing  exhibitions,  electrical  shows,  carnivals  and 
county  fairs. 

Announcements  of  coming  events  should  be  closely  watched 
and  every  opportunity  taken  to  loan  ranges  to  church  bazaars, 
Red  Cross  workers,  food  conservation  exhibits  and  demonstra- 
tions of  food  and  house  furnishing  products  by  traveling  staffs 
of  large  manufacturers.    This  is  all  good  advertising. 

Show  windows  of  vacant  stores  can  usually  be  rented  at  low 
cost.  A  neat  range  display  should  be  put  in  and  changed  at  least 
once  a  week.  Such  a  window  should  include  cards  which  tell 
the  reader  that  information  and  advertising  may  be  secured  at 
the  main  salesroom  of  the  electric  company.  It  is  a  good  plan  to 
sell  a  range  to  the  prominent  restaurants  and  get  them  to  use  it 
in  their  window  for  the  first  few  months.  This  will  not  only 
prove  a  profitable  attraction  for  them  but  an  invaluable  adver- 
tisement for  the  central  station. 

In  such  displays  as  electric  shows,  carnivals,  bazaars  and 
similar  exhibits,  one  or  two  ranges  should  be  temporarily  con- 
nected for  the  cooking  of  biscuits  or  cookies  which  can  be  served 
to  visitors  with  tea,  hot  chocolate  or  lemonade — depending  on 
the  season.  During  such  displays  names  and  addresses  should 
be  taken  and  given  to  the  sales  manager. 

Salesroom.  Several  different-sized  ranges  should  be  on  exhi- 
bition— brightly  polished  and  harmoniously  arranged.  No  appli- 
ances nor  other  goods  of  any  kind  should  be  displayed  on  the 

94 


DISPLAYS  AND  PUBLIC  DEMONSTRATIONS 


95 


An  excellent  range  window  display  showing  the  range  in  its  right  **atmos- 

phere**—the   kitchen.     One  of  the  fundamental  laws   in    the  display  of 

merchandise  is  to  show  the  goods  in   their  proper  environment^in  the 

place  where   they  give  their  service. 


range  nor  placed  in  the  oven.  One  or  two  ranges  should  be  con- 
nected for  demonstrating  the  operation  of  the  switches  and  the 
heating  of  the  units.  A  good  supply  of  advertising  should  be 
nearby  and  every  visitor  to  the  store,  irrespective  of  his  or  her 
interest  in  the  electric  range  should  be  given  a  folder. 

Show  Windows.  The  show  window  is  ten  times  as  valuable  as 
any  space  in  the  store.  The  purpose  of  a  show  window  is  to  attract 
the  eye,  create  interest  and  get  the  passer-by  to  come  into  the 
store.  Therefore  one  of  the  best  ways  of  making  a  window  pro- 
duce results  is  to  include  a  large  readable  card  offering  some 
"free  special'*  booklet,  folder  or  novelty  to  visitors. 


96  MERCHANDISING  METHODS 

Several  years  ago,  a  large  department  store  learned  that  if  they 
could  get  a  woman  into  the  center  of  the  store — have  her  walk 
by  a  number  of  bargain  counters — she  would  invariably 
make  a  number  of  purchases.  So  they  established  a  plan  for  a 
week  or  ten  days  whereby  they  **sold"  brand  new  $5  gold  pieces 
for  $4.90  from  8:30  a.m.  until  2:00  p.m.,  at  the  office  of  their 
cashier  on  the  top  floor. 

To  get  to  the  elevator  the  women  had  to  walk  from  the  front 
to  the  back  of  the  store  and  pass  a  number  of  bargain  sales  prom- 
inently displayed  and  advertised  by  large  cards.  Thousands  of 
women  came  to  the  store  to  take  advantage  of  this  offer  and 
sales  were  very  greatly  increased. 

During  the  range  campaign  the  show  windows  should  be  given 
exclusively  to  range  displays  which  should  be  changed  at  least 
twice  a  week  to  maintain  interest.  The  more  thought  and  money 
expended  in  making  the  window  attractive,  the  more  effective 
it  will  be  in  drawing  people  into  the  store.  Remember  that  a 
display  is  good  or  bad  according  to  whether  the  goods  or  the 
setting  predominates. 

If  the  eye  is  instantly  attracted  to  the  range  the  window  is  a 
success.  If  the  setting  is  jumbled,  filled  with  a  number  of 
appliances  and  no  object  in  particular  is  remembered  after 
the  passer-by  leaves  the  window,  it  is  not  a  success.  Manufac- 
turers are  glad  to  assist  in  suggesting  new  displays  and  ofttimes 
furnish  material  such  as  streamers,  window  cards  and  similar 
pieces. 

A  vital  factor  in  a  window  display  is  Atmosphere.  In  other 
words  a  range  should  be  shown  in  a  kitchen  setting  or  scene. 
Moreover  displays  should  be  very  simple  and  dressed  with  the 
one  purpose  of  driving  home  one  point  at  a  time.    The  less  in 


ji 


DISPLAYS  AND  PUBLIC  DEMONSTRATIONS 


97 


Range  demonstration  room  of  the  City  Electric  Lighting  Co.,  Vincennes, 
Ind.  showing  a  "Prospect-Demonstration"  in  progress.  These  ladies  who 
were  interested  in  electric  cookery  brought  their  own  dough  and  did 
their  own  demonstrating.  This  plan  is  one  of  the  most  effective  ways  of 
proving  the  many  advantages  of  the  range  which  is  ofttimes  found 
necessary  during  the  first  few  weeks  of  a  campaign. 


them  the  more  effective  they  will  be.  Some  action  or  motion 
also  attracts  more  people  than  a  '*dead"  display.  Moreover  a 
window  should  be  brilliantly  lighted  at  night  because  the  average 
person's  mind  is  relaxed  and  more  sensitive  to  impression,  because 
a  large  number  of  people  like  to  go  '* window  shopping"  and 
because  the  displays  stand  out  much  better  than  they  do  in  the 
day-time. 

Even  a  small  store  will  gain  trade  by  intelligent  attention  to 
its  windows.  The  fact  that  large  merchants  have  invested  for- 
tunes in  window  fittings  and  can  afford  to  maintain  expert  help 
is  no  reason  why  the  small  merchant  should  neglect  his  windows. 
A  bright,  fresh,  simple  but  effectively  conceived  window  will  help 
not  only  the  appearance  but  also  the  sales  in  any  electric  shop. 

Demonstrations.  The  first  demonstration  should  be  the  open- 
ing feature  of  the  campaign.    There  are  two  ways  to  get  an  in- 


98 


MERCHANDISING  METHODS 


Demonstration  platform  of  the  Utah  Power  &  Light  Company* s  Cooking 

School  where  the  lectures  were  delivered  and  the  general  cooking  instruc- 

tions  were  given. 


terested  audience  for  this  first  exhibition.  One  is  to  issue  special 
invitations  to  a  selected  list  of  promising  prospects.  The  other 
is  to  run  an  admission  ticket  coupon  in  a  newspaper  announce- 
ment the  night  before  the  demonstration.  This  coupon  requests 
the  name  and  address  of  the  person  attending.  These  names  are 
kept  by  the  sales  manager  for  his  file  of  live  prospects. 

If  a  special  invitation  letter  is  used  it  is  a  good  plan  to  impress 
upon  the  addressee  that  this  demonstration  is  limited  to  a  very 
exclusive  few  and  that  she  was  chosen  as  one  who  would  probably 
be  more  interested  than  the  lady  next  door.  If  the  sales  manager 
is  desirous  of  having  a  certain  few  prominent  women  attend,  he 
should  have  a  salesman  telephone  and  extend  to  them  another 
cordial  invitation  on  the  morning  of  the  demonstration. 

Before  the  ladies  begin  to  arrive,  it  is  a  good  plan  for  the 
demonstrator  to  actually  bake  a  cake  or  a  loaf  of  bread  to  become 
acquainted  with  the  voltage.  A  slight  variation  will  make  a  great 
difference  in  the  time  of  baking.    If  the  demonstrator  is  not  ac- 


DISPLAYS  AND  PUBLIC  DEMONSTRATIONS  99 

quainted  with  the  range  and  how  quickly  and  efficiently  it  is 
working  she  will  probably  underbake  or  overbake  her  food,  be- 
come confused  and  give  the  harmful  impression  that  the  range 
is  ''funny''  or  that  she  does  not  know  what  she  is  doing. 

The  demonstrator  should  have  her  pans  greased  and  her  cook- 
ing accessories  handy  on  the  table.  A  pot  of  flowers  might  be 
placed  on  top  of  the  oven  to  show  that  virtually  no  heat  escapes 
and  that  plants  can  live  in  close  proximity  because  of  the  non- 
consumption  of  oxygen  and  the  non-radiation  of  heat. 
Specific  Action.  The  demonstration  should  start  promptly 
when  scheduled.  The  demonstrator  begins  with  a  preliminary 
talk  on  the  advantages  of  electric  cookery — its  better  cooked 
food,  cleanliness,  comfort,  coolness,  safety  and  economy.  Then 
she  describes  the  fundamental  construction  of  the  range — omitting 
all  technicalities!  Next  she  turns  on  the  oven  switches  and 
finishes  the  preparation  of  the  food  which  should  be  partially 
prepared  before  the  women  arrive. 

The  better  plan  is  to  cook  dishes  which  women  usually  dislike 
to  try  because  of  the  possibility  of  poor  results.  As  the  demon- 
strator is  heating  the  oven,  she  explains  its  scientific  construc- 
tion, operation  and  excellent  results.  By  this  time  it  will  be 
heated  to  the  right  temperature.  She  places  the  food  in  it  and 
continues  her  talk  explaining  the  new  method  of  oven  cookery — 
how  one  cooks  with  little  water,  how  it  is  unnecessary  to  watch 
the  food  and  how  different  articles  are  cooked — more  deliciously, 
more  digestibly  and  more  nourishingly.  See  Better  Cooked  Food^ 
page  135. 

She  explains  the  saving  in  the  shrinkage  of  meats,  the  unusual 
moisture  retained  in  baked  bread  and  cakes,  and  the  nourishing 
values  which  are  conserved  in  vegetables  and  soup. 

Next  comes  a  description  of  how  the  range  fits  into  the  modern 


100  MERCHANDISING  METHODS 

home  today;  how  it  is  in  keeping  with  the  telephone,  electric 
light,  electric  cleaner  and  other  domestic  devices.  Then  she 
explains  the  cooking  rate,  cost  of  operation  and  introductory 
offer — if  one  exists.  By  this  time  her  cooking  will  probably  be 
finished.  Whatever  she  has  baked — cake,  cookies  or  biscuits, 
should  be  served  with  some  sort  of  liquid  refreshment. 

Campaigns  and  Sales  Ideas 

Importance.  Campaigns  should  be  held  periodically  to  main- 
tain interest  in  electric  cookery  and  stimulate  range  sales.  Such  a 
campaign  should  be  an  accelerator  rather  than  spasmodic  mer- 
chandising effort,  for  the  latter  will  create  intensive  interest  only 
to  be  followed  by  a  depressing  reaction  when  sales  will  be  practi- 
cally dead  until  another  burst  of  sales  enthusiasm  is  staged. 

Activities.  Before  the  initial  campaign  is  begun  ranges  should 
be  ordered  and  every  price  and  selling  policy  determined.  Sales 
talks  and  demonstrator's  lectures  should  be  written,  standardized 
and  memorized  and  lists  of  prospects  compiled  by  the  sales 
manager. 

The  attractive  feature  of  each  campaign  will  be  the  demon- 
strations and  the  purpose  of  all  advertising  should  be  ostensibly 
to  get  the  ladies  to  attend.  If  it  is  found  they  are  not  easily 
interested,  some  novelty — a  kitchen  utensil,  a  cook  book,  or 
something  else — should  be  used  as  an  inducement  to  have  them 
attend  the  "cooking  lectures.'' 

No  matter  how  difficult  it  will  be  to  first  get  women  interested 
in  electric  cookery,  they  will  eventually  be  enthusiastic  when 
they  learn  of  its  scientific  method,   cleanliness,   and  safety. 

Each  campaign  should  be  advertised  to  extend  over  a  definite 
(limited)  period  which  will  put  a  time  limit  on  whatever  special 


I 


CAMPAIGNS  AND  SALES  IDEAS 


101 


-"-^1.= 


.j-ijfc.jw^' 


'i'^BSI  ,1)3       1 
I:  ;i^Bp.Bi    .  m 


liM* 


An  unusual  demonstration  idea  which  proved  effective  to  a  utility.     This 
truck  was  driven   throughout  the  territory,   to  country  fairs,   carnivals, 
and  similar  places  where  a  cooking  demonstration  would  attract  consid- 
erable attention.    The  sides  of  the  truck  were  folded  up  at  night, 

offers  are  made.  Women  not  taking  immediate  action  in  attend- 
ing a  demonstration  or  buying  a  range  will  lose  out  on  the  "special 
inducements''  offered. 

Sales  Ideas.  The  following  sales  plans  have  been  used  by 
prominent  central  stations  and  have  proved  practicable  and 
successful : 

1.  A  campaign  put  on  by  the  Minneapolis  General  Electric 
Company  was  entitled  "The  House  Next  Door."  The  object  of 
this  campaign  was  to  concentrate  sales  effort  on  the  homes  in 
the  immediate  neighborhood  of  a  range  installation. 


102 


MERCHANDISING  METHODS 


Dear  Madam:- 

On  page  80  of  June  "'Good  Housekeeping,"  you  will  find  an 
excellent  article  on  Electric  Cooking  by  a  well  known  expert. 

For  fear  that  you  have  not  already  seen  it,  we  are  sending  you 
a  copy.  Read  it  over  and  then  come  into  our  Electric  Cooking 
Bureau  the  next  time  you  are  down  town. 

THE  MINNEAPOLIS  GENERAL  ELECTRIC  CO. 


Sample  of  a  postcard  which  was  mailed  periodically 
to  the  customers  of  the  Minneapolis  General  Electric 
Co.  It  directed  attention  to  certain  current  magazine 
articles  on  Electric  Cookery,  Kitchen  Efficiency  or  some 
allied  subject.  It  is  a  live,  timely  idea  and  assists  in 
maintaining  interest  in  the  electric  range. 

This  was  done  for  two  reasons;  First,  because  additional 
transformers  would  not  be  necessary;  second,  because  the  first 
range  owner  is  usually  willing  (if  not  proud)  to  talk  about  her 
range  to  her  neighbors. 

2.  The  Edison  Electric  Illuminating  Company  of  Boston  con- 
centrated effort  on  architects,  builders  and  officers  of  home 
building  associations,  with  the  result  that  the  greater  percentage 
of  new  homes  and  apartments  in  Boston,  built  during  the  three 
years  before  building  restrictions  became  effective  in  1917  were 
equipped  with  electric  ranges. 

Whenever  an  installation  was  going  in,  the  Edison  Company 
erected  an  illuminated  billboard  in  front  of  the  building  upon 
which  was  stated  that  the  building  was  modern  in  every  respect 
and  therefore  equipped  with  electric  ranges.  They  would  also 
advertise  the  building  in  the  real  estate  sections  of  Sunday 
papers. 

This  billboard  and  Sunday  newspaper  advertising  had  a  three- 
fold purpose:  First,  it  won  the  good-will  and  co-operation  of  the 
architects;  secondly,  it  assisted  the  owners  in  renting  and  third, 
it  educated  the  people  of  Boston  to  the  fact  that  new  buildings 
were  not  modem  unless  they  were  equipped  with  electric  ranges. 


CAMPAIGNS  AND  SALES  IDEAS 


103 


LABOR  SAVING 

An  electric  ruagt  delivers  heat  in  its  perfect  form— No  fuel. 
DO  flune,  no  damp^s»  no  constant  watchful  eye  needed— Tou  simply  turn  a  switch.— 
The  Clock  and  Switch  Key  regulate  y^nr  entire  cooking. 

Besides  these  four  weekly  Prizes,  The  Edison  Oo.  offers  two  Special  Phses  of  SIO 
and  $5  for  the  best  two  Jingles  printed  for  them,  to  be  awarded  to  writers  living  on 
Hitir  lines.  Prizes  to  be  applied,  first,  toward  wirinflr  their  houses  on  The  Easy  Pay- 
ment Plan,  second,  if  users  of  Electricity,  toward  the  purchase  of  Merchandise.  Prizes- 
awarded  at  close  of  Contest. 


The  rooster  crowr  st  JDltfnIght,  the  night  \»  turned  to  day. 
We've  ibrcwn  the  tallow  candle  and  tde  Iteroeeae  away; 
The  sura  luVe.  ce«a«d  to  twinkle,  the  moo^i  Ims  hid  her  rac<>, 
for  liic  Erileon  Electric  Comp*nV  illiHnlnares  the  place. 

W.  A.  Gob. 

Quoth  Joiiy  Joe:  "All  bleMlaRs  flew. 

Prom  He«TeD  above  to  BartK.  below: 

That  guerdon  brigbi^  the  gilt  of  aigbt. 

Makes  man  en>oy  Ble^rlc  Uchi.** 
Experfelice-'L 


The  old  coal-hoda  ^nd  the*  kerosene-cans 

On  (he  race  ta  the  Junk-tLcap  have  joined  bonds. 

Por  the  eiecirle  range  cooks  our  meala  today. 

And  tbe'.modern  lights  have  coroc  to  stay* 

Annie. 
K<T  dust  from  ashes  Ryi&g  'round,  co  a^hea  now  to  sift. 
No  wood  to  saw  and  Ini;  upstairs,  no  heavy  coal  to  lift. 
My  work  made  light  and  wifey's.  too.  by  our' electric  range. 
It  8  cheaper,  too.  than  buying  coal.    Try  It.    Make  the  chaage. 

Shcrlocko. 


The  Edison  Electric  lUuminating  Company  of  Boston 


One  of  the  newspaper  advertisements  of  The  Edison  Electric  Illuminating 

Co.  which  described  their  ** Jingle**  contest.    This  advertising  idea  created 

unusual  interest  in  electric  cookery  throughout  their  territory. 

3.  Another  company  instead  of  holding  typical  demonstrations 
established  a  series  of  "Electric  Luncheons."  Special,  personally- 
written  invitations  were  sent  to  a  select  prospect  list — women 
of  such  a  class  as  would  represent  possible  buyers.  Luncheons 
were  served  to  an  average  of  thirty  or  forty  women.  The  cookery 
was  done  on  the  electric  range  following  which  were  talks  by  the 
demonstrator  and  the  sales  manager.  A  strong  effort  was  made 
not  to  let  one  woman  escape  without  ordering  a  range  outright  or 
signing  for  at  least  a  trial  installation. 

4.  The  City  Electric  Lighting  Company  of  Vincennes,  Indiana, 
organized  the  Ladies'  Aid  Society  of  the  First  Christian  Church 
into  six  committees,  the  membership  of  each  committee  being 
made  up  of  women  residing  in  different  parts  of  the  town.  A 
special  room  was  fitted  up  for  them  by  the  central  station  and 
furnished  with  heating,  lighting  and  cooking  energy  gratis.  The 
Company  also  furnished  ranges  and  all  necessary  accessories  for 


104  MERCHANDISING  METHODS 

the  demonstrator.  Each  day  in  the  week  one  of  the  six  commit- 
tees took  charge,  having  their  friends  bring  bread  or  pastries 
already  prepared  and  ready  to  go  into  the  oven.  The  visitors  did 
their  own  baking  and  demonstrating,  under  competent  direction. 
At  the  end  of  the  week  the  central  station  was  assured  that  nearly 
every  woman  in  the  town  had  actually  operated  one  of  the  elec- 
tric ranges. 

All  of  the  food  cooked  was  sold  to  members  of  the  church  and 
the  money  was  turned  over  to  a  fund  for  charity  work.  The 
general  manager  of  the  company  states,  "We  found  everybody 
talking  about  the  ranges  and  we  actually  sold  quite  a  number 
during  the  demonstration.  For  two  months  after  this  self- 
demonstration  was  staged,  sales  were  made  to  the  friends  of  the 
Ladies'  Aid  Society." 

5.  After  a  central  station  has  installed  several  commercial  bake 
ovens  in  bakeries  or  grocery  stores,  a  ^ood  plan  is  to  supply  them 
with  little  tags  of  some  bright  color  which  can  be  attached  to 
each  loaf.  The  message  will  say  that  this  bread  is  different  from 
any  other  bread  they  ever  tasted  because  it  has  been  baked  elec- 
trically— by  the  cleanest  and  most  sanitary  method.  This  will 
not  only  prove  to  be  good  advertising  for  the  central  station  but 
such  excellent  publicity  for  the  bakery  or  grocery  store  that  they 
usually  will  co-operate  in  absorbing  one-half  of  the  expense  of 
printing  the  tags. 

6.  At  an  Electrical  Show  in  its  city  a  central  station  had  a 
large  exhibit  of  electric  ranges  and  held  cooking  demonstrations 
in  which  women  of  five  different  nations  participated  in  native 
costumes.  They  cooked  their  native  dishes.  Not  only  did  they 
attract  large  crowds  with  their  odd-looking  costumes  but  they 
passed  out  little  baked  dainties  and  folders,  and  secured  names 
of  interested  visitors. 

7.  Another  central  station  holds  profitable  contests  periodically. 
The  first  one  they  staged  was  a  contest  in  which  they  offered  three 
prizes  to  school  children  for  the  best  essays  on  electric  cookery. 
The  first  prize  was  $25,  the  second  $15  and  the  third  was  $5. 
Every  child  in  the  town  enthusiastically  wrote  a  paper  on  it. 


Prospects  and  Follow- Up  Work 

Classification.  Scientific  electric  range  selling  requires  a  sys- 
tematic division  or  classification  of  the  field  with  a  prescribed 
merchandising  plan  for  each  class.  The  character  of  effort  is 
determined  by  the  financial  condition  and  mode  of  living  of 
each  class,  and  its  possible  knowledge  of  and  attitude  toward 
the  electric  range.  Three  classes  of  Prospects  are  to  be  considered : 

Class  C — *'Poor"  Prospects 
Class  B — *'Good"  Prospects 
Class  A — ''Interested'*  Prospects 

So  the  sales  work  divides  itself  into  three  parts:  Combing 
the  entire  town  for  the  complete  classification  of  these  three 
kinds  of  prospects;  then  watching  Class  C  Prospects  become 
Class  B  Prospects  and  educating  Class  B  Prospects  to  become 
Class  A  Prospects. 

Class  C  Prospects.  The  Class  C  Prospect  is  a  member  of  a 
poor  family  who  at  the  present  time  cannot  afford  to  purchase 
an  electric  range — no  matter  how  attractive  the  plan  of  payment 
offered — and  despite  the  fact  that  she  has  electric  service.  Any 
real  sales  effort  directed  toward  such  a  prospect  would  largely  be 
wasted.  But  it  is  a  good  plan  however  to  send  such  a  woman 
an  occasional  piece  of  advertising  and  to  keep  in  touch  with  the 
better  ones  as  they  are  likely  at  any  time  to  have  sufficient 
money  with  which  to  buy  a  range.  Thus  they  would  become 
Class  B  Prospects. 

Class  B  Prospects.  The  Class  B  Prospect  is  a  woman  who  at 
the  present  time  is  financially  able  to  purchase  a  range.  Thus 
she  is  a  *'good"  prospect  and  one  to  whom  a  salesman  can  profi- 
tably send  advertising.  He  should  interest  her  to  the  point  where 

105 


106  MERCHANDISING  METHODS 

she  will  make  an  inquiry  of  some  kind  so  he  may  put  her  in  Class 
A  and  concentrate  personal  sales  effort  upon  her.  The  names  of 
Class  B  Prospects  can  be  compiled  from  club  membership  lists, 
blue  book,  marriage  license  reports,  and  through  company  em- 
ployes. In  educating  these  Class  B  Prospects,  it  is  better  to 
send  several  pieces  of  advertising  before  a  personal  call  is  made 
— and  each  piece  should  try  to  solicit  a  request  for  further  in- 
formation. If  such  an  inquiry  should  be  made  this  makes  the 
person  an  * 'interested"  prospect  which  puts  quite  a  different 
aspect  on  the  situation  and  gives  the  salesman  the  desired  op- 
portunity (or  excuse)  for  making  a  personal  call. 

Class  A  Prospects.  Class  A  Prospect  is  a  woman  who  has  given 
her  name  at  a  demonstration,  returned  a  coupon  of  a  newspaper 
advertisement  or  in  some  other  way  has  signified  that  she  is 
interested  in  electric  cookery.  She  is  different  from  a  Class  B 
Prospect  in  that  she  has  expressed  herself  as  being  receptive  to 
information  on  this  subject.  The  salesman  immediately  begins 
to  educate,  influence  and  ''sell"  her  by  sending  personally- 
written  sales  letters  and  finally  telephoning  her  for  a  definite 
appointment  to  call.  The  salesman  must  remember  that  indi- 
vidual buying  varies  as  greatly  as  people;  so  his  methods,  plans 
and  ways  of  working  must  be  adapted  to  each  individual  prospect. 

The  monied  woman  buys  the  electric  range  for  the  better  food 
which  it  produces.  The  middle  class  woman  who  does  her  own 
housework  has  a  greater  appreciation  of  the  comfort  and  con- 
venience. Thus  sales  talk  must  conform  to  the  person.  See 
The  Prospect^  page  128. 

As  hotels,  restaurants,  clubs  and  similar  institutions  have  the 
money  and  are  really  Class  B  Prospects,  it  is  well  to  have  a 
card  index  of  these  commercial  cooking  prospects  and  solicit 


PROSPECTS  AND  FOLLOW-UP  WORK  107 

them  first  with  personally  written  letters  and  then  later  by  sales- 
men. These  letters  should  feature  the  many  advantages  of 
electric  cooking,  rate,  concessions  and  other  attractive  points. 
A  commercial  cooking  demonstrator  for  chefs,  managers  and 
owners  also  proves  a  stimulus  to  sales. 

Sales  Development 

General  Work.  Immediately  after  the  first  campaign  has  been 
well  started,  the  general  promotion  of  electric  cookery  should 
begin.  Plans  should  be  drawn  and  a  direct  effort  made  for  the 
complete  cultivation  of  the  cooking  field  which  divides  itself  into 
three  classes:    Domestic,  Commercial  and  Miscellaneous. 

Domestic  work  is  developing  the  sale  of  ranges  in  homes. 
Commercial  effort  is  in  selling  the  different  kinds  of  restaurant 
equipment  to  institutions  doing  large  quantities  of  cooking.  Mis- 
cellaneous activity  is  in  promoting  the  sale  of  portable  hot-plates 
and  small  lamp-socket  ovens  in  various  places.  See  paragraph 
on  Miscellaneous  Activity,  page  118. 

The  electric  range  must  be  kept  continuously  before  the  public 
eye.  Everyone  in  the  town  should  read  at  least  once  a  week 
some  range  advertisement  or  notice  in  the  local  papers.  They 
should  see  a  range  every  time  they  go  downtown,  attend  a  church 
bazaar,  go  to  a  carnival,  visit  the  Electric  Shop  or  the  hardware 
store.  They  should  read  about  electric  cookery  on  the  menus 
of  restaurants  and  tea  rooms,  and  on  the  backs  of  their  light 
bills.  In  fact  everywhere  they  go  they  should  see  a  range  or 
hear  something  about  electric  cookery.  This  work  will  create 
consumer  interest  which  will  eventually  become  consumer  accep- 
tance and  then  consumer  demand. 


108 


MERCHANDISING  METHODS 


Electric  Cooking  School  of  the  Union  Electric  Light  &  Power  Co.,  St.  Louis, 
which  was  in  charge  of  a  well-known  domestic  science  instructor  and  one 
assistant.  At  every  third  lesson,  about  25%  of  the  class  actually  prepared 
food  and  cooked  on  the  ranges  while  the  others  watched  and  listened  to 
the  lecture  and  the  instructions. 


Domestic   Field. 

through : 


The    cultivation   of   the    domestic    field    is 


Public  demonstrations  to  which  invitations  are  issued  in  news- 
paper advertisements  or  by  personal  letters  to  a  special  list. 

Frequent  newspaper  advertisements  to  maintain  general  interest. 

Electric  cooking  publicity  news  in  the  reading  columns  of  the 
local  papers. 

Weekly  or  semi-monthly  sales  letters  to  the  best  prospects. 

Cookery  Service  Bureau  which  furnishes  electric  cooking  recipes. 
They  can  be  printed  on  the  backs  of  monthly  light  bills  or  post 
cards  and  mailed  to  both  range  owners  and  prospects. 

A  school  for  the  education  of  housewives  and  domestics. 

Ranges  exhibited  in  every  possible  place:  Bazaars,  exhibits, 
fairs,  "shows,"  department,  hardware  and  other  stores  and 
in  show  windows  and  similar  places. 

Lectures  by  a  range  salesman  illustrated  with  lantern  slides, 
charts,  pictures  and  posters. 

The  public  demonstrations  and  the  exhibitions  of  ranges   are 


SALES  DEVELOPMENT 


109 


A  SPECIALIZED  BUREAU  OF  COOKING  EXPERTS 
READY  TO  HELP  YOU 

11 /^l  UR  Electric  Cooking  Bureau  was  established 
I  \^  in  the  early  part  of  1916  for  the  special  pur- 
[[•i-H.  f  II  pose  of  benefiting  the  housewives  of  Minne- 
apolis by  offering  authoritative  advice  on  cooking. 

In  the  first  year  of  its  existence  it  has  collected  a 
large  number  of  recipes  and  a  vast  amount  of  valu- 
able information  pertaining  to  cooking  in  general. 

Miss  Bernice  Bell,  who  is  our  Domestic  Science 
Expert,  has  helped  develop  the  Bureau  to  a  high 
state  of  efficiency  and  usefulness. 

As  a  matter  of  fact,  she  js,  literally,  a  "doctor  of 
cooking",  for  her  experience  has  brought  her  into 
contact  with  almost  every  conceivably  problem  in 
cooking. 

Ic  is  quite  possible  that  Miss  Bell  will  be  able  to 
make  suggestions  and  give  you  just  the  recipe  you 
you  have  been  looking  for. 

Call  and  tee  her  any  time.  Bui  be  sure  to  mail  (he  attached  post 
card  so  ihat  you  will  receiue  her  f<rvorite  recipes  from  time  to  time. 

THE  MINNEAPOLIS  GENERAL  ELECTRIC  CO. 

220  Loeb  Arcade 


Page  from  the  Cooking  Bureau  Folder 
published  by  the  Minneapolis  General 
Electric  Co.  It  described  the  purpose  and 
advantages  of  the  Bureau  and  solicited 
cooking  questions  and  names  for  the 
recipe  service. 

described  under  Displays  and  Demonstrations,  page  94.  The 
newspaper  advertisements,  sales  letters  and  publicity  notices  are 
described  under  Advertising,  page  150. 

The  monthly  recipe  service  is  a  plan  that  has  been  promoted 
for  a  long  time  by  the  Minneapolis  General  Electric  Company 
in  which  they  have  maintained  a  cooking  service  bureau  that  has 
not  only  printed  recipes  on  the  backs  of  their  monthly  light  bills 
but  helped  solve  the  cooking  problems  of  any  woman  requesting 
this  co-operation. 

This  bureau  has  not  only  rendered  a  real  service  to  the  pur- 


no 


MERCHANDISING  METHODS 


An  Unsolicited  Letter  from  an  Electric  Range  User 

To  The  Minneapolis  General  Electric  0>. 

"No  doubt  you  will  be  interested  in  knowing  how  I  get  along  «ndi  my 
'CI'  electric  range. 

"I  can  say  I  would  certainly  hale  to  part  with  it  and  I  am  sure  that  anyone 
who  has  used  an  electric  range  would  feel  the  same  way.  Some  people  think  cook- 
ing with  electricity  is  very  expensive,  but  I  find  it  a  very  economical  fuel  as  well 
as  clean,  safe  and  comfortable. 

"The  average  of  my  bill,  per  mondi  for  the  twelve  months  of  1917  were 
$3.64 — tlUs  is  for  cookmg.  baking,  lighting,  also  have  an  electric  vacuum  cleaner, 
flat  iron  and  toaster.  I  especially  like  electric  cooking  for  dried  fruits  and  cereals 
because  they  swell  up  larger  than  with  any  other  method  of  cooking  and  never 
scorch  by  tummg  it  on  'low,'  and  I  never  use  a  double  boiler. 
Smcerely  jrouis, 

MRS.  T.  O.  SCHRODER." 

3418  Humboldt  Ave.  N. 

ylSK  FOR  MISS  BELL'S  FOOD  CONSERVATION  SUGGESTIONS 


RECIPE  NO.  19. 
Rice  and  Corameal  MulBna. 

%  c.  cornmeni  1  c.  cold  rice 

%  c.  Mhtte  flour        1%  c.  milk 
1  4.  wait  1  epsr 

3  t.  baking  po-tTder     3  t.  .shortening: 

METKOUi  Sift  dry  ingredients,  add 
separated  rice,  beaten 
cKS  yolk«  milk,  and 
beat  -weUr  Add  the 
ahorteitins  and  beaten 
ess  tvhlte. '  Fill  malBn 
tiDs  tno-tblrda  full. 

DAKING:  Preheat  the  oven  to  4Vz 
br  turning  both  oven 
avrltches  to  ffnll.  then 
turn  upper  burner  off. 
Put  mnfllns  Im  the  oven 
and  bake  25  mlnutea. 

Electric  Cooking  Bureau 

Ths  Mlnneapollt  Ccru  Eke.  Co. 
Main  6100  T.  S.  44  210 


I! 


Sample  of  Recipe  Form  which  was  mailed  periodically  to  a  list  of  range 
prospects  and  owners  by  the  Minneapolis  General  Electric  Co.  Note  that 
the  left  side  contained  a  letter  of  commendation,  the  right  side,  the  recipe. 
This  idea  was  the  basis  for  cultivating  the  electric  range  field  and  was 
the  indirect  result  of  the  majority  of  the  range  sales. 


chasers  of  the  electric  range  in  teaching  them  to  prepare  new 
dishes  and  become  better  cooks,  but  it  creates  an  unusual  interest 
in  the  minds  of  prospects.  This  service  has  been  one  of  the  chief 
factors  in  developing  the  domestic  range  field  in  Minneapolis. 

A  permanent  cooking  school  was  established  about  two  years 
ago  by  the  Union  Electric  Light  &  Power  Company  in  St. 
Louis.  The  purpose  was  to  educate  the  housewives  and  domestics 
in  the  art  of  cooking  electrically,  irrespective  of  electric  range 
ownership.  A  large  advertisement  was  placed  in  the  local  papers 
announcing  the  school  and  the  details  of  the  plan  of  enrollment. 
It  stated  that  $7.50  would  be  paid  every  pupil  completing  the 
full  course  of  ten  lessons.  So  many  women  flocked  to  take 
advantage  of  this  offer  that  the  capacity  of  the  school  was  filled 
the  second  day  after  the  advertisement  appeared.  The  company 
found  it  was  so  easy  to  obtain  pupils  that  the  offer  of  $7.50  was 
later  withdrawn. 

Classes  were  held  every  morning  and  afternoon — fifty  members 


SALES  DEVELOPMENT  ill 


Brighter  and  Happier  Hours  in  the  Kitchen 

Made  Possible  by  the 

ELECTRIC  RANGE 

THE  IVIODERIV  WAY 


Free  School  oi  Practical  Cookery 

To  be  Conducted  by 

Clief  Wymani 

A  Culinary  Artist  of  International  Fame 

HE  WILL  TELL  YOU  HOW 


holesome  atmosphere 


Demonstration*  at  2:30  p.  m.  Every  Day  to  Saturday,  June  30th  inclusive 
To  be  held  at  303  Santa  Monica  Boulevard 

Southern  California  Edison  Company 


Newspaper  announcement  of  the  Southern  California  Edison  Company's 
Cooking  School  which  was  in  charge  of  a  well-known  chef.  This  school 
traveled  front  town  to  town  of  the  territory  in  a  special  railroad  car  com- 
pletely equipped  with  a  model  kitchen  and  range  showroom.  The  demon- 
stration announced  in  this  particular  advertisement,  however,  was  held 
in   one  of  the  company's  showrooms. 

to  a  class  and  each  class  attended  three  times  a  week.  At  every 
third  lesson,  members  of  the  class  would  do  actual  cooking. 
About  twelve  women  cooked  in  each  class  while  thirty-eight 
watched  and  listened  to  the  lectures.  The  school  was  very  suc- 
cessful and  obtained  excellent  results  in  developing  the  domestic 
field  in  St.  Louis. 

The  Southern  California  Edison  Company — which  has  more 
electric  ranges  on  its  lines  than  any  other  central  station  in  the 


112  MERCHANDISING  METHODS 

world — maintains  a  * 'School  of  Practical  Electric  Cookery'' 
which  travels  from  town  to  town  of  the  S.  C.  E.  territory,  and 
gives  cooking  courses  and  public  demonstrations.  It  is  conducted 
under  the  management  of  a  well-known  chef  and  has  proved 
very  successful  in  the  promotion  of  the  electric  cookery  idea. 

The  plan  of  having  a  salesman  prepare  a  lecture  on  electric 
cookery  which  is  illustrated  with  lantern  slides  has  been  tried 
out  effectively  by  a  number  of  central  stations  and  some  manu- 
facturers. Whenever  possible,  the  salesman  secures  a  place  on 
the  program  of  church  socials  and  bazaars,  conventions,  women's 
club  meetings,  benefits  and  similar  affairs  where  he  will  have  an 
opportunity  to  talk  to  a  number  of  women.  This  talk  should  be 
well  illustrated  with  interesting  slides  which  can  be  secured  from 
range  manufacturers  or  the  Merchandising  Service  Department 
of  The  Society  for  Electrical  Development. 

Architects  and  Builders.  In  the  majority  of  electrically-served 
communities  today  the  architect,  contractor  and  builder  do 
not  recognize  the  electric  range  as  standard  equipment  for  the 
modern  home  as  they  do  not  know  it  is  practicable  from  every 
viewpoint.  Therefore  when  a  central  station  begins  the  promo- 
tion of  electric  cookery,  one  of  the  greatest  fields  for  education  is 
among  the  architects  and  builders.  They  must  be  taught  that  the 
electric  range  is  practicable,  its  cost  of  operation  well  within  the 
means  of  the  average  family  and  that  a  new  home  is  not  modern 
today  unless  it  includes  an  electric  range.  The  apartment 
house  builder  either  erecting  for  permanent  ownership  or  specula- 
tion must  realize  that  he  should  install  the  most  modern  devices 
or  the  apartments  will  not  rent,  nor  will  the  buildings  sell. 

One  of  the  first  moves  in  the  promotion  of  the  electric  range  is 
to  give  an  electrically-cooked  dinner  to  the  architects,  contractors 
and  officers  of  building  associations.   This  should  be  given  at  one 


SALES  DEVELOPMENT  113 

of  the  prominent  hotels  or  in  a  large  room  of  the  central  station 
offices.  It  should  be  followed  by  ''facts-and-figures"  talks  by 
manufacturers'  salesmen  and  the  central  station  sales  manager. 
These  talks  may  include  the  following  subjects: 

Progress  of  electric  cookery  today 

Practicability  of  the  range 

Advantages  of  electric  cookery 

Description  of  the  cooking  rate 

How  lighting  and  cooking  current  can  be  bought  at  wholesale 

through  one  master  meter. 
The  economy  of  adequate  wiring  for  future  use  of  a  range  when 

lighting  circuit  is  being  installed. 
The  advantages  to  the  owner  of  the  building 
The  advantages  to  the  housewife 
Advantage  of  the  range  in  apartments 

Then  a  range  should  be  sold  to  every  man  present  before  he 
leaves  the  dining  room  because  nothing  will  convince  a  person 
of  the  superiority  of  electric  cookery  more  than  having  a  range 
in  his  own  home.  Such  a  dinner  will  do  more  to  lay  the  founda- 
tion for  future  sales  than  any  other  activity. 

Securing  their  Interest.  The  foundation  for  the  general 
development  of  electric  cookery  in  a  city  is  the  confidence  and 
co-operation  of  the  architects.  So  range  manufacturers,  central 
stations  and  The  Society  for  Electrical  Development  have  been 
educating  architects  and  builders  for  the  past  two  or  three  years. 

Both  the  Society  and  the  manufacturers  have  taken  space  in 
Sweet's  Catalogue,  the  buying  guide  of  the  architectural  trade. 
They  have  published  booklets  and  folders  and  have  had  men 
work  directly  with  the  building  trade. 

One  central  station  has  concentrated  sales  eff'ort  on  the  archi- 
tects and  today  a  large  number  of  the  new  apartment  houses  in 
its  city  are  equipped  with  electric  ranges.    After  these  ranges 


114 


MERCHANDISING  METHODS 


Real  Estate 


were  sold  the.  central  station  placed  advertisements  in  the  real 
estate  sections  of  the  Sunday  papers  with  a  double  purpose  in 
mind.  First:  To  let  other  architects  and  builders  know  that 
certain  buildings  were  installing  ranges  and  second :  To  adver- 
tise the  building  and  give  it  added  value  to  facilitate  the  rent- 
ing of  the  individual  apartments. 

Service  Bureau  for  Architects.  The  Portland  Railway,  Light 
&  Power  Co.  of  Portland,  Oregon,  has  for  several  years  main- 
tained an  Illuminating  Engineering  Bureau  as  a  division  of  the 
Commercial  Department.  This  bureau  is  in  charge  of  competent 
illuminating  engineers  who  prepare  plans  and  specifications  for 
about  thirty  architectural  firms  of  Portland.    They  also  check 

and  criticize  wiring 
and  illuminating 
plans  for  other  archi- 
tects and  builders. 
This  work  has  been 
done  without  expense 
to  the  architects  and 
has  provided  them 
with  proper  wiring 
plans,  particularly  for 
the  larger  buildings 
which  made  it  possible 
for  wiring  contractors 
to  bid  on  the  same 
basis  for  wiring  con- 
tracts. 

Sample  of  range-apartment  advertisements  of  It  WaS    foUUd    whcn 

the  Edison  Electric  Illuminating  Co.,  Boston. 

The  idea  behind  this  campaign  was  the  same  this  burCaU  WaS  CStab- 

as  the  St.  Louis  plan.     These  advertisements 

appeared   in    the  Real  Estate  columns  of  the  Hshcd  that    thC    archi- 

newspapers,   generally  in   the  Sunday  issues. 


COLONNA  Apartments 

230  Walnut  St    •    -    •    NewtonviUe 

The  24  Suites  in  this  new  High-Class 
Apartment  Building  are  completely 
equipped  with  Edison  Service,  including 

24  ELECTRIC  RANGES 

Three  to  Six-Room  Suites  at  from  $37.50  to  $65. 
Apply  at  227  Walnat  St 

The  Edison  Electric  Illuminating  Company  of  Boston 


SALES  DEVELOPMENT  115 


tects  had  vague  ideas  on  illumination,  proper  distribution  of 
circuits,  carrying  capacity  of  wire  and  the  proper  way  to  prepare 
specifications  which  would  be  understood  by  the  electrical  con- 
tractors. 

At  first  the  work  was  confined  to  office  buildings,  hotels  and 
other  large  buildings  but  was  gradually  expanded  to  include 
apartment  houses  and  better  class  residences.  In  the  past  two  years 
the  erection  of  large  buildings  decreased  in  number  and  this 
bureau  gradually  encouraged  the  architects  to  permit  it  to  assist 
them  in  writing  wiring  specifications  for  residences,  apartment 
houses,  stores  and  smaller  premises.  This  work  of  course  always 
included  an  adequate  number  of  '^convenience  outlets'*  and 
ample  wiring  for  ranges  and  water  heaters.  Today  the  majority 
of  the  architectural  firms  of  Portland  specify  electric  ranges  in 
practically  every  new  building.  This  shows  that  the  architects 
can  be  gradually  educated  to  the  electric  range  idea. 

Ranges  in  Apartments.  The  electric  range  is  even  more  ad- 
vantageous in  an  apartment  kitchen  than  it  is  in  the  kitchen  of 
a  residence.  As  a  rule  the  apartment  kitchen  is  small  and  lacks 
sufficient  ventilation.  Therefore  it  demands  a  clean,  cool,  con- 
venient and  compact  cooking  device. 

Apartment  tenants  move  frequently  and  there  has  to  be  some- 
thing new,  better  and  different  in  the  new  home  to  attract  them 
to  it.  The  electric  range  is  this  ''something  different.''  Moreover 
it  saves  the  apartment  house  owner  from  frequent  redecorating 
expense  which  the  new  tenant  often  insists  upon.  It  also  reduces 
the  fire  hazard. 

When  a  builder  installs  electric  ranges  he  obtains  higher 
rents,  more  desirable  tenants,  increases  the  value  of  his  building 
and    in  many  instances  reduces  his  fire  risk. 


116  MERCHANDISING  METHODS 

Cooking  without  a  Rate.  Electric  ranges  can  be  sold  most 
readily  to  new  homes — particularly  new  apartments.  If  a  new 
apartment  house  is  erected  today  and  fuel  ranges  installed  it  will 
be  many  years  before  the  central  station  can  induce  the  owner 
to  install  electric  ranges.  If  a  cooking  rate  for  individual  instal- 
lations does  not  exist,  central  stations  can  still  permit  large 
apartment  houses  to  purchase  their  lighting  and  cooking  current 
through  one  large  meter.  In  recent  years,  large  real  estate  oper- 
ators in  many  big  cities  have  erected  buildings  of  forty  or  more 
apartments  and  have  installed  electric  ranges  on  such  a  contract. 
The  contract  calls  for  the  purchase  of  all  current  used  for  cooking 
and  lighting,  appliances,  elevators,  laundry  equipment,  electric 
cleaners  and  other  electrical  devices  through  one  master  meter. 

The  monthly  consumption  amounts  to  thousands  of  kilowatt 
hours  and  is  so  large  that  the  central  station  can  afford  to  sell 
the  current  on  a  low  power  rate.  The  owners  in  turn  either 
include  the  cost  of  the  current  in  the  rent  or  re-sell  it  at  cost  or 
slight  profit.  When  sold  at  cost  or  slight  profit  it  approximates 
the  cost  of  fuel  cookery.  It  therefore  makes  electric  cookery 
economically  practical  in  towns  not  having  a  general  cooking  rate. 
The  central  station  can  afford — in  fact  they  find  a  good  profit  in 
such  a  contract.  They  do  not  have  to  read  separate  meters,  keep 
separate  accounts,  deliver  and  collect  separate  bills.  In  other 
words  it  produces  large  revenue  with  small  overhead. 

One  of  the  largest  installations  of  this  kind  is  in  the  Hunter 
Inn,  Omaha,  Nebraska  where  fifty-seven  electric  ranges  are  in- 
stalled. 

Domestic  Science  Field.  In  the  United  States  today  there  are 
about  15,000  public  and  private  academies  and  high  and  normal 
schools  having  an  attendance  of  more  than  1,400,000  young 
women.    This  offers  a  tremendous  educational  field  for  electric 


SALES  DEVELOPMENT 


117 


cookery.  A  large  number 
of  these  schools  are  al- 
ready equipped  with 
electric  cooking  appar- 
atus but  the  field  as  a 
whole  is  surprisingly 
undeveloped. 

The  reputation  of  a 
cooking  school  or  a  do- 
mestic science  class  de- 
pends entirely  upon  its 
methods.  One  of  the 
things  it  is  teaching  is 
the  use  of  the  latest  and 
best  apparatus.  For  this 
reason  alone  electric 
ranges  and  ovens  should 
be  in  every  cooking  class- 
room today.  The  ad- 
vantage to  the  central 
station  lies  in  the  daily 
publicity  given  electric 
cookery  by  the  pupils. 
They  will  learn  how  to 
cook  electrically  and 
therefore  will  want  elec- 
tric ranges  when  they 
have  homes  of  their  own. 
They  will  talk  about 
and  *'seir'  the  electric 
cooking  idea  every  day. 


Yorkleigh  Apartments 


4954  West  Pine  Boulerard 

36  Perfectly  Appointed  Apartments  with  an 

Electric  Range 

IN  EVERY  KITCHEN 
No  modern  home  is  complete  without  an  Electric  Range. 

Economical— Sanitary— Sale 
Modern  Convenience— Better  Results 

Ask.o*  to  tdl  vou  what  the  Electric  Ran^  means  to  the  busy  woman  c£  today, 

Bell,  Main  3220     lidloch.  Central  3530 


Union  Electric  t 


ia«  a  LOCUST  sra. 


CoRQiny 


MEMBER  ADVERTISING  CLUB  OF  ST.  LOUIS 


Sample  of  the  range-apartment  advertise- 
ments which  were  published  by  the  Union 
Electric  Light  &  Power  Co.,  St.  Louis. 
The  idea  behind  this  campaign  was  two- 
fold: First,  it  instilled  in  the  minds  of 
both  tenants  and  builders  that  **no  home 
is  complete  without  an  electric  range;** 
second,  it  added  value  and  popularity 
to  each  individual  building  equipped 
with  electric  ranges. 


118  MERCHANDISING  METHODS 

Commercial  Service.  Large  electric  ranges,  bake  ovens,  toas- 
ters, broilers,  plate  and  food  warmers,  frying  griddles,  steam 
table  and  coffee  urn  heaters  can  be  sold  to: 


Asylums 

Colleges 

Jails 

Seminaries 

Bakeries 

Cooking  Classes 

Mines 

Ships 

Churches 

Hospitals 

Restaurants 

Various  schools 

Clubs 

Hotels 

Sanitariums 

The  best  move  to  bring  about  such  sales  is  to  give  a  dinner  to 
the  owners  and  managers  and  later  a  demonstration  for  the  chefs 
at  which  all  cooking  is  done  electrically  in  the  dining  room  and 
is  followed  by  talks  on  electric  cookery  illustrated  with  lantern 
slides  or  motion  pictures.  These  talks  are  from  the  consumer's 
viewpoint  and  different  from  the  ones  delivered  to  the  architects 
and  builders.  They  should  sell  the  idea  of  electric  cookery  just 
as  it  is  sold  to  the  housewife.  Commercial  equipment  has  ad- 
vantages which  are  described  under  Commercial  Cooking  Appar- 
atus, page  194. 

Intensive  sales  effort  should  be  concentrated  on  these  men  be- 
fore they  leave  the  dining  room,  and  ranges  sold  for  home  use. 
Get  them  to  install  a  range  on  trial  or  on  time  payments — almost 
anything  to  get  one  in  their  homes  as  this  will  mean  the  sale  of 
other  ranges  and  aid  in  the  future  development  of  commercial 
cookery  in  the  town.  Remember  one  range  sold  will  probably 
lead  to  the  sale  of  two  or  three  others. 

Miscellaneous  Activity.  Miscellaneous  activity  can  be  des- 
cribed as  the  sale  of  portable  hot-plates  and  lamp  socket  ovens 
and  grills  to  laboratories,  studios,  doctor's  and  dentist's  offices, 
light  housekeeping  rooms  and  bachelor  apartments,  buffets,  soda 
fountains  and  many  similar  places  where  a  little  cooking  or 
heating  must  be  done  quickly  and  in  a  limited  space. 


Office  and  Warehouse  Forms 

Modern  Card  System.  The  central  stations  which  are  under- 
taking range  merchandising  today  should  take  advantage  of  the 
experiences  of  the  pioneer  central  stations  and  copy  as  closely  as 
possible  their  office  and  warehouse  forms  which  have  been  in 
use  long  enough  to  prove  their  practicability.  A  complete  set  of 
excellent  examples  of  forms  which  are  now  in  use  are  illustrated 
here. 

Prospect  Card.  The  range  prospect  card  is  one  of  the  most 
comprehensive  of  the  set.  It  should  contain  certain,  definite  in- 
formation about  the  person  in  mind;  facts  which  will  sooner  or 
later  help  in  making  the  sale.    For  example: 

Name  Kinds  and  number  of  pieces  of  advertising 

Address  sent  to  prospects — dates? 

Telephone  number  Has  attended  demonstration? 

Number  in  family  Has  friend  or  neighbor  an  electric  range? 

Present  fuel  used  Installment  plan  described 

Present  type  range  Type  range  favored  by  prospect 

Number  of  rooms  Apparent  reason  why  prospect  will  buy. 

Cook?  Salesman's  name. 
Rate  quoted 

On  the  back  of  the  card  should  be  a  history  of  the  progress 
being  made  with  the  prospect.  The  development  of  this  work 
has  a  significent  bearing  on  the  actual  sale.  It  is  recommended 
that  these  cards  be  kept  in  two  different  drawers,  one  marked 
**Class  B"  and  the  other  *'Class  A"  prospects.  See  Prospects  and 
Follow-  Up  Worki  page  105. 

Salesman's  ^^Score  Card.''  The  purpose  of  the  ''score  card" 
is  to  give  the  salesman  a  graphic  resume  of  his  work  day  by  day 
and  can  be  used  by  him  to  determine  his  efficiency.   It  can  also  be 

119 


120 


MERCHANDISING  METHODS 


Two  types  of  electric  range  prospect  cards  used  by  the  Texas  Power 
&  Light  Co.,  Dallas.     The  size  of  these  cards  is  53^" x  JM"  inches. 


Ledger  Folio. 


PLEASE  BEAD  THIS  AQBEEMENT  CABEFirX.I.Y 

Deposit  $ RoiTte  No. 


(This  Space  to  be  filled  at  the  office) 

Application  for  Electric  Cooking  and  Heating  Service 

I  hereby  request  the  Twin  State  Qas  and  Electric  Company  to  install  electric  cooking 

and  heating  service  in  the  premises  No (Street) 

(City),    owned   by 

and  occupied  by as   a 

I  agree  that  I  will  promptly  and  regularly  pay  all  bills  for  electricity  used  under  this 
contract  at  the  Company's  regular  published  rates  for  the  class  of  service  furnished,  the 
amount  to  be  determined  by  the  Company's  meter  or  meters,  to  which  and  to  the  wires  and 
appliances  connected  therewith  upon  the  said  premises  free  access  for  the  Company's  agents 
shall  be  had  at  all  reasonable  hours. 

I  also  agree  to  abide  by  the  published  rules  and  regulations  of  the  Company,  and  that  if 
and  whenever  I  shall  be  as  much  as  fifteen  days  in  arrears  in  payment  of  any  bill  due  the 
Company  for  electricity,  labor,  material  or  appliances,  or  shall  violate  any  of  the  terms  or 
conditions  of  this  contract,  the  Company  may  remove  its  meters,  wires  and  other  appliances 
and  appurtenances  which  may  have  been  placed  upon  the  said  premises  solely  at  the  Com- 
pany's expense,  without  further  notice,  and  because  of  such  default  or  violation  there  shall 
immediately  become  due  and  payable  by  myself  to  the  Company,  as  liquidated  damages  and 
not  as  a  penalty,  the  minimum  monthly  payment  provided  for  in  the  schedule  of  rates  for  the 
unexpired  portion  of  the  contract  year  in  which  the  Company's  property  is  removed. 

I  agree  to  take  electric  service  from  the  Company  for  a  period  of  one  year  from  the  date 
of  this  agreement  and  thereafter  until  the  end  of  thirty  days  notice  in  writing  given  by  one 
party  to'  the  other 
.«^lgned  at this ...day   of 191.. 


(Business  address) 


(Slflrnatnre) 


Range  Installation  Application  Card  used  by  the  Twin  State  Gas  &  Elec- 
tric  Co.,   Brattleboro,   Vt.     The  size  of  this  card  is  6"   x  4". 


OFFICE  AND  WAREHOUSE  FORMS 


121 


used  in  reporting  to  the  sales 
manager  in  charge.  This  card 
shows  the  number  of  calls  made 
during  the  week,  names  of 
prospects  visited,  and  whether 
the  salesman  ''Got  attention," 
''Got  interested,''  "Got  chance 
to  close"  and  "Secured  order." 
It  is  recommended  as  an  excellent 
method  to  determine  progress  in 
the  sales  work  of  the  individual 
salesman  and  the  general  efficien- 
cy of  the  sales  organization. 
Installation  Application.  The 
order  to  install  and  the  appli- 
cation for  service  may  be  com- 
bined on  the  same  card  as  shown 
on  the  Installation  Application 
Card  illustrated  on  page  120.  If 
a  trial  installation  proposition 
exists,  the  Trial  Installation  Ap- 
plication may  be  very  simple  in 
form  and  mimeographed  on  plain 
paper.  At  the  end  of  thirty  days 
or  the  termination  of  the  trial, 

the  purchaser  may  sign  the  permanent  installation  order  as 
shown.  This  will  save  the  printing  of  trial  installation  cards  and 
the  mimeographed,  simple-looking  sheet  will  not  make  the  person 
signing  it  think  they  are  signing  any  ironbound  agreement. 
The  card  illustrated  is  used  by  the  Twin  State  Gas  &  Electric 
Company  of  Brattleboro,  Vt. 


APPROACHED 
lame                                  Addrtti 

, 

i 

i 

1 

1 

1    W.M/VAfcfy^/ty       /Wr/ 

^•^fi 

/ 

^ 

0 

o 

2  V/<i/f9r/^r^^wy . 

, 

/ 

/ 

f 

3  ^.  vv  Pu  r^u  e 

f 

c 

o 

o 

4  %7w  A^  ors  e 

J. 

/ 

/ 

o 

c 

5.  vV.  5  /Vs.U'/VStf'y 

f 

o 

o 

o 

^    ^  8.Z  o.-  ^ 

, 

f 

/ 

/ 

/ 

7  /^Z7.  ^/A^^tr 

.. 

/ 

c 

o 

8    A./r  /^^7fs 

. 

f 

r 

/ 

c 

9    ^.R.y^;//€r 

„ 

/ 

/ 

y. 

10 

11 

9 

7 

i 

^ 

12 

7 

/ 

13 

14 

15 

16 

17 

18 

19 

20 

Total 

Per  Cent 

Salesman*  s  ** Score  Card**  used  by 

the   Northwestern   Electric   Service 

Co.,  Erie,  Pa.    The  size  of  this  card 

is  about  7"  x  3]4"- 


122 


MERCHANDISING  METHODS 


/   ®  \ 

Utah  Power  &  Light  Co. 

Mzkt                                              T.n« 

FinitK 

C»h  Price  S 

Time  Prices 

Initial  Parment  Cash  S 

MoPihIv  Installments  % 

UTAH  POWER  &  LIGHT  CO. 

□ivi<;inN                              OFFICE 

INSPECTION    CARD 

Type                     Serial  Hn. 

Equipment 
Hotplates 

No.             Size           Cat.  No. 

Ovens 

Coolert 

Remirl: 

Inspect  eL_ 


/ 

/ 

1 
E 

¥ 

r 

( 

1                                                      No. 

I           Utah  Power  8c  Light  Co 

\                                              DELIVERY  CARD 
i               Kama 

Price,  Inspection  and  Delivery  Card   used  by 

the  Utah  Power  &  Light  Co,,  Salt  Lake  City. 

Illustration    shows    both    sides.     Size   of   this 

card  is  53^"  X  3^/i'\ 


Price,  Inspection  and  Delivery  Card.  This  is  a  combination' 
card  with  a  three-fold  purpose.  It  simplifies  and  unifies  one  of 
the  important  steps  in  recording  a  range  sale  and  installation. 
It  contains  the  price,  a  record  of  the  inspection  and  the  details 
of  delivery.  As  soon  as  the  range  arrives  in  stock,  the  card  is 
attached  and  the  price  information  filled  in.  Inspection  by  the 
Service  Department  follows. 

When  the  range  is  sold  and  delivered  at  the  purchaser's  home, 
the  inspection  and  delivery  records  (each  side  of  the  lower  section 
of  the  card)  are  detached  and  returned  to  the  Service  Depart- 
ment where  a  record  is  made  on  the  Range  Record  Card. 


OFFICE  AND 

V 

VARi 

^HOV 

SB  FORMS 

123 

Utah  Power  &  Light  Co. 

OFFICE 

ELECTRIC  RANGE  RECORD 

DIVISION 

,n.''t*"co 

ADDRESS 

SUCCESSOR 

! 

1 

3NS 

NEW 

3NDHAND 

MOT  PLATES             CAT.  NO.                     OVENS                     CAT.  NO.                 COOKERS                  CAT.  NO. 

SEC 

WHATAUXILL 

SER 

- 

CAS  RAN 

DATE 

CO.. 

UNIT      NUMBER 

..USES 

CAT.  NO. 

COST 

REMARK, 

NUMBER 

REPLACED           1         REPAIRED 

ML 

BB 

.                _                i           . 

1 

1 
1 

j                  : 

! 

! 

i      ! 

i 

1      ,           ,          ^.                               '                 1 

Range  Record  Card  used  by   the   Utah  Power  &  Light  Co.     Size  of  this 
card  is  S"  x  5". 

Range  Record  Card.  The  Range  Record  Card  is  the  complete 
history  of  each  particular  range.  This  card  record  is  started  the 
day  the  range  goes  into  stock  and  every  repair,  and  the  details 
of  other  kinds  of  service  rendered  are  recorded  on  it.  In  order 
that  it  may  be  kept  up  to  date,  the  Contract  Department  should 
be  instructed  to  send  to  the  Range  Service  Department  details 
of  all  range  activity  such  as:  Installations,  disconnections  and 
names  of  successors.  In  this  way,  the  Record  Card  is  sure  to 
have  all  the  ranges  on  the  lines  correctly  recorded. 


Range  Trouble  Order.  This  order  is  practically  the  same  as  a 
regular  Emergency  Trouble  Order  with  a  single  exception.  It  is 
the  graphic  record  of  the  trouble.    Note  the  two  rectangles  in 


124 


MERCHANDISING  METHODS 


Utah  Power  &  Light  Co. 

RANGE  TROUBLE 

N.me        

loc.lion      .»..™,     ~..~. 

.191 

M. 

^ 

IKOUBLE  REPORTED 

Si«ned 

TROUBLE   MANS   REPORT 


NO!  t.   Mm\.  ,a.o  o(  R.n, 

Recovtd  M 

TROUBLE  FOUND 


ACTION  TAKEN 


3c: 


Range  Trouble  Order  used 
by  the  Utah  Power  &  Light 
Co.  This  sheet  is  prepared 
in  duplicate.     Size  5"  x  4". 


the  illustration.  The  left  one  repre- 
sents the  cooking  surface  of  the  range, 
the  right  one  the  oven.  When  making 
repairs,  the  service  man  draws  in  the 
units  (with  circles)  and  marks  a  cross 
in  the  one  repaired.  This  trouble  order 
follows  the  same  routine  as  the  regular 
trouble  order. 

Any  central,  station  desiring  to  use 
the  design  and  contents  of  the  office 
and  warehouse  forms  shown  on  these 
pages  may  do  so  without  asking 
the  consent  of  the  Society  or  the 
central  station.  Before  fully  deciding 
on  the  style  and  contents  of  new  forms, 
it  is  a  good  plan  to  write  for  the 
catalogs  of  a  number  of  card  filing 
companies  from  which  many  excel- 
lent ideas  may  often  be  gleaned. 
Such  companies  also  advice  and  as- 
sist prospective  customers  in  such 
problems. 


Contractor-Dealers^  Position 

Place  in  Industry.  The  contractor-dealer  has  a  well- 
defined  place  in  the  Electrical  Industry.  He  is  just  as  important 
in  his  position  as  the  central  station,  jobber  or  manufacturer.  He 
belongs  to  the  industry.  He  is  entitled  to  live.  He  specializes 
in  wiring — and  in  the  retail  selling  of  electrical  goods  at  a  profitl 
When  a  central  station  is  selling  appliances  they  are  competing 
with  the  contractor-dealer.  Buthe  does  not  compete  with  them.  He 


CONTRACTOR-DEALERS'  POSITION  125 

does  not  sell  current.  And  every  transaction  he  makes  shows  on 
the  profit  side  of  the  central  station  ledger.  So  he  must  be 
protected  in  the  sale  of  ranges  as  he  is  protected  in  the  sale  of 
irons  and  other  household  devices. 

Situation  Today.  Up  to  the  present  time  the  contractor- 
dealers  have  not  sold  electric  ranges  because  the  central  stations 
were  obliged  to  assume  the  responsibility  of  getting  ranges  on 
their  lines  and  giving  them  adequate  service.  The  great  majority 
of  contractor-dealers  were  unable  to  invest  money  in  a  stock  of 
ranges  and  the  necessary  merchandising  effort;  and  also  unable 
to  finance  time  payments.  Moreover  they  did  not  have  the  facil- 
ities to  install  ranges  on  trial.  And  so  practically  all  of  the  range 
merchandising  accomplished  up  to  the  present  time  has  been 
done  by  the  central  station. 

Another  factor  which  has  prevented  the  contractor-dealer  from 
entering  the  range  business  and  that  has  often  stopped  a  well 
intended  effort,  is  the  central  station  selling  ranges  below  manu- 
facturers' list  prices.  Of  course  the  contractor-dealer  could  not 
compete  as  his  profit  comes  entirely  from  selling  above  cost.  Thus 
he  has  been  left  out  of  the  range  business  almost  entirely  except 
for  range  wiring  which  some  central  stations  gave  him  to  maintain 
his  good-will. 

Merchandising  Tomorrow.  Owing  to  the  care  which  was  neces- 
sary in  introducing,  selling  and  serving  the  electric  range  up  to  the 
present  time,  the  central  station  has  been  justified  in  handling 
it  almost  exclusively  but  they  have  not  been  justified  in  selling 
it  below  manufacturer's  list  prices.  See  Price  and  Selling  Policies, 
page  73. 

But  the  day  is  rapidly  approaching  when  the  contractor-dealer 
will  be  able  to  finance  a  range  stock,  sell  ranges  with  little  effort 
and  for  cash  and  not  largely  on  a  trial  basis. 


126  MERCHANDISING  METHODS 

After  the  central  station  has  introduced  electric  cookery,  it 
will  some  day  no  doubt  turn  over  all  the  range  business  to  the 
contractor-dealer  and  devote  itself  exclusively  to  the  generation 
and  distribution  of  electricity.  After  ranges  are  introduced  and 
a  number  of  housewives  of  the  town  can  testify  as  to  the  prac- 
ticability of  the  range,  trial  installations  can  be  discontinued. 
Trial  purchases  of  automobiles,  victrolas  and  similar  articles  are 
no  longer  made  because  everyone  knows  what  they  will  do.  It 
will  be  the  same  with  an  electric  range. 

The  contractor-dealer  cannot  put  on  elaborate  campaigns  but 
he  can  build  his  business  around  the  activity  begun  by  the  central 
station.  He  can  gradually  increase  his  sales  people,  add  a  demon- 
strator and  begin  a  small  amount  of  advertising  within  a  short 
time  after  his  central  station  has  introduced  electric  cookery. 

The  central  station  should  not  establish  a  cut-price  policy  that 
will  prevent  the  contractor-dealer,  hardware  and  department 
stores  from  going  into  the  range  business.  It  is  unfair.  Every 
man  and  every  business  has  moral  and  ethical  responsibilities  of 
which  they  must  be  continuously  cognizant.  But  aside  from  this 
is  that  one  very  important  business  consideration:  Encourage- 
ment by  the  central  station  of  the  contractor-dealer's  range  busi- 
ness as  a  direct  feeder  to  central  station  revenue. 
Mutual  Dependence.  There  is  without  question  a  mutual  de- 
pendence between  the  central  station  and  the  contractor-dealer, 
and  this  should  make  easily  possible  an  agreeable  arrangement 
for  the  co-ordinated  handling  of  the  range  business.  To  a 
given  measure  each  is  dependent  upon  the  other;  for  where 
the  contractor-dealer  represents  any  considerable  factor  in  the 
local  electrical  business  the  central  station  cannot  enjoy  its 
best  return  from  the  range  business  without  the  contractor- 
dealer's  support. 


CONTRACTOR-DEALERS'  POSITION  127 

As  mentioned  before,  the  contractor-dealer  cannot  always  begin 
by  putting  on  an  elaborate  campaign;  and  it  follows  that  his 
maintenance  of  anything  like  a  complete  parts,  and  repair  de- 
partment is  impossible  in  the  beginning.  Not  only  in  such  an 
instance  as  this  but  in  every  one,  there  should  be  a  hearty, 
friendly  co-operation  between  the  central  station  and  contractor- 
dealer. 

As  the  contractor-dealer  increases  his  range  business  and  be- 
comes large  and  strong  enough  in  it  to  maintain  his  own  efficient 
service  department,  he  still  can  and  should  co-operate  with  the 
central  station,  for  the  increase  in  the  contractor-dealer's  range 
business  will  not  lessen  mutual  interests  but  never  approach  that 
point  where  the  two  will  conflict. 

The  best  policy  for  the  central  station  to  establish  today  is  to 
sell  all  ranges  at  manufacturer's  list  prices  plus  a  fair  profit  on 
the  wiring.  If  the  contractor-dealer  does  not  go  into  range  mer- 
chandising at  least  get  him  to  install  a  display  and  give  him 
a  percentage  for  the  name  of  a  prospect  who  ultimately  buys  and 
a  better  one  for  the  actual  sale  of  a  range. 

This  policy  permits  the  contractor-dealer,  hardware  and  de- 
partment stores  to  go  into  range  merchandising,  or  to  at  least 
make  a  profit  on  a  range  display.  All  three  classes  of  dealers  will 
no  doubt  play  a  prominent  part  in  the  future  development  of  the 
electric  range  and  it  is  thought  by  authorities  in  the  industry 
that  eventually  the  central  station  will  gradually  work  out  of 
appliance  merchandising  and  turn  over  this  business  to  the  con- 
tractor-dealer. One-third  of  the  communities  in  this  country 
today  are  served  by  central  stations  which  are  not  doing  a  mer- 
chandising business  so  it  seems  obvious  that  the  contractor- 
dealer  is  likely  to  handle  the  range  business  of  tomorrow. 


CHAPTER   VII 

SELLING  POINTS 
Selling  the  Electric  Cooking  Idea 


The  Prospect.  Nearly  all  range  sales  are  made  to  women, 
this  article  is  directed  toward  them  but  it  will  apply  largely 
when  the  man  is  a  factor  in  the  sale.  Women  are  curious,  in- 
nately skeptical,  susceptible  to  bargains  and  attracted  by  **free" 
offers.  A  prospect  is  interested  in  how  the  electric  range  fits 
into  her  life — ^how  it  is  going  to  help  her.  She  does  not  want  pri- 
marily to  know  how  it  is  made — nor  how  it  works.  This  infor- 
mation comes  later. 

A  woman  has  usually  formed  but  one  idea  when  she  first 
inquiries  about  the  range:  That  electric  heat  is  costly.  Do  not 
give  her  an  opportunity  to  ask  this  question.  Begin  immediately 
to  ask  her  questions.  This  will  tend  to  make  her  forget  to  say, 
"Isn't  it  expensive  to  operate?''  Keep  on  asking  her  questions. 
Get  the  information  about  her  first.  Get  the  **lay"  of  her  mind. 
Something  attracted  her  to  the  range.  Something  appealed  to 
her  and  this  * 'something"  will  be  the  route  to  her  appreciation 
and  signature  on  the  contract. 

The  salesman  must  locate  her  * 'sales  target."  He  must  know 
where  to  aim  his  talk  because  women  buy  ranges  for  different 
reasons  and  a  point  which  will  readily  sell  one  woman  will  have 
no  effect  whatsoever  on  another. 

Be  discreet  when  arousing  curiosity  or  playing  on  vanity.  A 
little  sometimes  works  well;  too  much  often  kills  the  sale.   Don't 

128 


I 


SELLING  THE  ELECTRIC  COOKING  IDEA  129 

make  statements  which  cannot  be  proven.  Women  have  good 
memories  and  delight  in  referring  to  mis-statements.  Amis-repre- 
sentation or  untruth  destroys  their  confidence  in  the  salesman. 
And  where  confidence  has  been  shaken  the  chances  of  a  sale  are 
materially  lessened! 

The  Idea  and  not  the  Range,  Electric  ranges  are  sold — not 
bought!  A  purchase  is  never  made  until  the  prospect  knows 
just  where,  when  and  how  the  device  is  going  to  fit  into  her  life. 
Women  do  not  know  about  electric  ranges.  Therefore  electric 
ranges  are  never  bought  literally. 

Also  the  prospect  does  not  buy  because  the  salesman  wants 
her  to  but  because  she  wants  to  buy  it.  The  salesman's  job  is 
not  to  get  her  to  buy — but  to  ger  her  to  want  the  range  because 
the  decision  to  purchase  is  her  province,  not  the  salesman's.  The 
salesman  does  not  sell  the  prospect  but  helps  her  sell  herself. 
Therefore  he  must  get  her  viewpoint.  Look  at  the  range  from 
her  angle.  This  puts  the  salesman  on  her  side  and  establishes  a 
more  favorable  relationship. 

A  salesman  should  sell  the  idea  of  Electric  Cookery — not  the 
range;  perfect  cooking  service — not  the  price;  what  the  range 
does — not  what  it  is;  what  it  will  do  for  her — not  what  it  did 
or  does  for  others.  A  woman  is  always  more  interested  in  the 
service  than  in  the  price  of  an  article.*  ServiceJ^is^'always  with  her. 
Price  is  incidental. 

So  the  range  salesman  must  "paint"  in  words  a  picture  for  his 
prospect.  Make  her  see  her  new  kitchen  modemly  and  efficiently 
equipped  with  an  electric  range.  Make  her  imagine  herself 
cooking  in  this  newer,  cleaner,  more  saving  and  savory  way — 
this  is  selling  the  idea! 
Scientific  Methods — 

Cooking  more  delicious,  digestible  and  nourishing  food  with 
assured,  uniform  results  and  a  minimum  of  time  and  work. 


130  SELLING  POINTS 


Joy  of  electric  cookery — 

Freedom  from  excessive  heat,  fumes,  sooty  utensils,  handling 

of  fuel;  wearisome  drawn-out  methods. 
Convenience 

Obtaining  any   desired   heat   at   the   touch   of  the   switch — 

instantly. 
Cleanliness — 

No  smoke,  no  soot,  no  discolored  walls  and  woodwork. 
Saving  in  work — 

Elimination  of  fuel  handling,  pot  scouring. 
Saving  in  food — 

Much  less  shrinkage  in  meats;  utilizing  cheaper  cuts,  making 

them  tender  and  delicious.     Making  palatable  the  coarser 

foods. 
Fresh  pure  air — 

No  hot  gaseous  fumes  to  devitalize;  less  odors  from  cooking. 
Safety — 

No  danger  of  fire,  explosion  or  asphyxiation. 
Continuity  of  service — 

Not  affected  by  coal  shortage  or  transportation. 
Standardized  cost — 

No  fluctuation  in  price  of  current  as  there  is  in  wood,  coal, 

coke  or  fuel  oil. 
No  fuel  storage  space  required. 
Reputation  for  being  modern. 
Easy  payment  plan. 

The  following  points  are  not  to  be  featured  or  dwelt  upon. 
They  are  bound  to  come  up — and  they  must — but  they  are  not 
the  subjects  to  be  brought  up  by  the  salesman  nor  such  as  he 
should  admit  for  any  prolonged  discussion  or  argument.  They 
are  incidental.    Do  not  feature — 

The  range  itself  Nickel  trimmings 

Price  of  the  range  Free  installation 

Cooking  rate  **Twenty  dollars  cheaper  this  week" 

Cost  of  operation  White  enamel  splashers 

Strong  construction  The  guarantee 


ji 


SELLING  THE  ELECTRIC  COOKING  IDEA  131 

Every  successful  action  or  undertaking  has  a  direct,  definite 
goal.  The  battleship  gunner  knows  his  target.  The  architect 
knows  every  nook  in  his  future  building.  The  successful  range 
salesman  chooses  a  straight  course  in  his  sales  talk — the  route  of 
which  is  the  prospectus  most  responsive  spot,  and  the  goal  is  the 
prospect's  desire  to  buy. 

A  number  of  miscellaneous  advantages  must  not  be  shot  at 
the  customer.  They  will  be  scattering  and  as  futile  as  rammed 
birdshot.  Diplomatic  questions  often  uncover  her  personal  in- 
terests. Determine  a  sales  argument  logical  to  her — and  make 
it  the  one  big  point  of  the  conversation.  Generally  one  certain 
hit  wins  the  ball  game.  Generally  one  certain  point  followed  in 
the  right  way  makes  the  sale. 

.1  If  a  woman  is  doing  her  own  work  and  dislikes  building  fires, 
dumping  ashes  and  scouring  sooty  pots,  the  safety  of  the  range 
will  make  no  impression  whatsoever  on  her.  But  she  buys  when 
shown  that  all  this  drudgery  is  eliminated.  If  a  woman  has  a  little 
boy  whose  chief  delight  is  playing  with  matches  and  fire,  the 
safety  of  the  range  will  appeal  to  her  rather  than  scientific 
cookery. 

Learn  to  say  $125  or  $150  without  hesitancy  or  meekness. 
Continuously  think  this  is  a  low  price.  Electric  ranges  sell  for 
more  than  fuel  ranges  but  the  price  is  fully  justified.  No  fuel 
range  at  any  price — as  a  gift — can  furnish  the  service  rendered 
by  the  electric  range!  If  a  salesman  cannot  establish  the  legiti- 
macy of  the  price  within  himself,  he  will  have  a  difficult  job 
convincing  anyone  else  of  its  justification. 

Help  the  customer  select  the  right  model.  Pick  the  one  she 
needs  rather  than  the  one  she  wants — if  it  is  possible.  Learn 
the  size  of  her  kitchen,  the  number  of  the  family  and  the  char- 
acter of  her  cooking.  Smaller  ranges  usually  do  the  work,  save 


WHY  WOMEN 

PRICE  MAINTENANCE 

Does  a  cut  in  the  price  of  a  nationally  adver- 
tised price  lower  your  opinion  of  the  product? 
(4.5  %  undecided) 

Bi 

Yes 
34.0 

47.8 
59.7 

76.2 
62.5 

74.2 
96.5 
23.8 

59.5 

rY 

No 
61.5 

52.2 
33.9 

23.9 
31.5 

25.8 
3.5 

40.5 

Percentage 
in  faoor  of 

57.0 
13.4 
12.7 

6.7 

4.2 

3.0 

1.8 

1.2 

51.1 
26.1 

15.9 

8.1 
54.1 

10.8 
8.1 

13.5 

SALES  METHODS 

Favor  magazine  and  newspaper  advertisements 
Favor  samples 

Object  to  personal  calls 

Favor  show  windows 

Favor  personal  calls 

Favor  telephone  calls 

Favor  demonstrations  . . 

Favor  show  windows 

QUALITY  AND  PRICE 

Consider  quality  first 

Consider  price  first 

Consider  both  (6.9  %  did  not  give  definite  an- 
swers)  

MAIL  ORDER  HOUSES 

Have  purchased  from  mail  order  houses 

Believe  quantity  purchases  lead  to  extrava- 
gance (6.4  %  did  not  give  definite  answers) .  .  . 

CASH  OR  CREDIT 

Would  pay  cash  if  prices  were  reduced  2  % 

Do  merchants  give  more  attention  to  charge 
customers  than  to  cash  customers?  (6.3% 
reported  "no  difference") 

FREE  DELIVERIES 

Would  pay  cash  and  carry  home  heavy  pur- 
chases if  prices  were  reduced  10  % 

Would  order  goods  according  to  a  definite 
delivery  schedule 

Showed  a  knowledge  of  the  cost  of  free  deliv- 
eries  

SERVICE 

Impressed  most  by  courtesies  involving  credit. 
Impressed  most  by  courtesies  involving  clerks . 
Impressed  most  by  courtesies  involving  privi- 
lege of  returning  purchases 

Impressed  most  by  courtesies  involving  the 
privilege  of  an  unhampered  examination  of 

goods 

Impressed  most  by  courtesies  involving  a 
prompt  refund  of  the  purchase  price  of  returned 

purchases 

Could  the  service  now  usually  offered  be  re- 
stricted?  

132 


SELLING  THE  ELECTRIC  COOKING  IDEA  133 


WHY  WOMEN 

DISTRIBUTIVE  COSTS 

Showed  a  passable  knowledge  of  the  cost  of 
running  a  department  store 

Bl 

Yes 

53.5 

26.9 
92.1 
62.6 

JY 

No 

37.4 

Percentage 
In  faoor  of 

Showed  a  passable  knowledge  of  the  price  at 
which  the  manufacturer  sells  a  cake  of  soap  of 
a  brand  advertised  nationally 

Desired  to  know  more  about  where  goods  come 

from  and  how  they  are  made 

Expressed  a  desire  to  see  a  reduction  in  the 
number  of  styles  of  shoes  marketed 

This  analysis  of  why  women  buy  was  compiled  from  questionnaires  sent 

to  the  presidents  of  94  women's  clubs.      Reproduced  from  ** Making  Your 

Store  Work  for  You/*  published  by  A.  W.  Shaw  Company 


space  and  use  less  current.  A  smaller  number  of  surface  units 
can  be  used  a  little  longer  time  which  will  eliminate  heating  one 
or  two  other  surface  units  to  their  maximum  heat.  It  is  better 
to  cook  two  foods  one  after  the  other  on  one  surface  unit  than 
to  heat  two  surface  units  to  their  maximum  heat.  Bringing  the 
second  one  up  to  full  cooking  heat  takes  considerably  more  cur- 
rent than  keeping  one  going  at  a  desired  temperature. 

Avoid  technicalities.  During  the  sale  never  voluntarily  men- 
tion kilowatt  hours,  how  the  rate  is  figured,  or  any  other  thing 
which  would  not  be  understood.  Don't  confuse  her  thoughts 
and  help  her  imagine  the  range  is  something  very  difficult  to 
operate.  Impress  upon  her  that  the  electric  range  is  the  simplest, 
safest  cooking  device.  There  is  nothing  complicated  nor  myster- 
ious about  it.  It  is  just  as  simple  as  the  electric  light — just  a 
matter  of  turning  the  switch. 

Never  force  a  sale.  Never  use  too  much  effort.  It  gives  the 
impression  that  the  range  is  difficult  to  sell.  Make  each  customer 


134  SELLING  POINTS 


want  the  range  before  a  contract  is  signed.  To  bore  her  with  too 
much  persistence — to  make  her  sign  a  contract  to  get  rid  of  the 
salesman  is  not  selling  the  range.  It  is  selling  her  relief  from  an 
undiplomatic  salesperson. 

Feature  a  few  big  advantages.  Touch  only  on  the  numerous 
minor  ones.  Too  many  claims  are  confusing.  Simplicity  rules  in 
every  sale.  Don't  try  to  make  the  prospect  think  the  range  is 
without  a  fault  of  any  kind.  She  will  be  suspicious  of  an  effort 
to  hide  something  she  is  bound  to  find  out.  Analyze  it  as  a  judge 
or  friend  helping  her  to  decide.  This  makes  praise  doubly  effec- 
tive and  claims  more  impressive.  Don't  criticise  other  cooking 
devices.  It  is  unbusinesslike  and  lowers  the  salesman  in  the 
prospect's  estimation  and  confidence.  There  are  enough  selling 
points  without  attacking  competition  or  a  competitor.  Confine 
the  talk  to  affirmative,  positive  statements — about  the  electric 
range.   Avoid  negative  talk  of  all  kinds. 

Price  not  Important.  A  woman  does  not  buy  an  article  because 
it  is  cheap!  She  buys  it  because  she  wants  its  service.  If  she 
has  no  precedent  to  follow  in  estimating  its  value,  it  might  be 
worth  five  to  ten    times  as  much  as  she  is  paying  for  all  she 


nPHE  KODAK  people  do  not  sell  a  leather  box  with  a 
*■  lense;  they  sell  the  idea  of  easy  picture  making. 
The  automobile  people  do  not  sell  an  engine,  a 
chassis  and  four  ^vheels;  they  sell  the  idea  of  quick, 
luxurious  transportation.  The  real  estate  man  does 
not  sell  a  quantity  of  brick,  mortar,  joists  and 
shingles;  he  sells  the  idea  of  a  home.  This  is  sales- 
manship! 


SELLING  THE  ELECTRIC  COOKING  IDEA  135 

knows  about  it.  When  she  learns  about  the  service  it  can  be 
rendered  and  comes  into  full  appreciation  of  all  the  increased 
comforts  and  conveniences,  the  price  of  a  range  does  not  enter 
into  the  sale.    She  is  educated  to  it,  wants  it. 

If  price  was  a  factor  in  sales  today  people  would  not  be  buying 
thousands  of: 

Electric  cleaners  at  $50  when  brooms  can  be  purchased  for  $1. 
Electric  toasters  at  $5  when  excellent  fuel  toasters  only  cost  50c. 
Kitchen  cabinets  at  $60  when  kitchen  tables  sell  for  $3  and  $4. 
Electric  irons  at  $6  when  fuel-heated  irons  sell  for  50c. 
Automobiles  ranging  from  $500  to  $15,000  when  a  horse  and 

buggy  costs  $200  to  $300. 
Electric  fans  at  $15  to  $30  when  palm  leaf  fans  cost  10c. 
Typewriters  at  $100  when  pen  and  ink  can  be  bought  for  10c. 

These  and  thousands  of  other  articles  on  the  market  today  sell 
for  many  hundred  times  the  cost  of  their  predecessors  because  of 
the  service  they  render.  Therefore  in  a  sale,  the  Service — not  the 
device — is  sold.  So  $125  is  a  high  price  for  a  range  body,  four 
legs,  four  surface  units  and  an  oven.  But  $125  is  a  low  price  for 
Electric  Cookery.   Therefore  sell  Electric  Cookery — not  ranges! 

Better  Cooked  Food 

Salesman's  Knowledge.  A  salesman  must  know  where  his 
product  is  different  from  competitive  articles.  It  is  his  chief 
selling  point.  As  the  principle  feature  of  the  electric  range  is  its 
superior  cooking,  the  salesman  must  know  the  fundamentals  of 
cookery;  why  heat  is  applied  to  food;  methods  of  cookery;  the 
many  differences  between  fuel  and  electrical  processes.  He  must 
know  how  to  cook  some  of  the  simple,  popular  foods.    He  must 


136  SELLING  POINTS 


know  the  characteristics  of  electric  heat.  See  article  on  Electric 
Heat,  page  51.  This  knowledge  will  not  only  give  him  confi- 
dence in  the  range  but  will  complete  his  sales  talk  by  teaching 
him  ''cooking  language.'* 

Science  Supersedes  Guessing.  Yesterday,  cookery  depended 
on  good  guesswork,  favorable  conditions  and  the  continuous 
basting,  shifting  and  stirring  of  the  food  because  the  flame  was 
subject  to  fluctuation  and  the  oven  occasionally  developed  *'hot 
spots."  Ofttimes  cakes  *'fell;"  roasted  meats  were  over-  or  under- 
done and  greatly  shrunken;  bread  was  raised  omevenly  and  with 
questionable  results  in  the  texture  and  color. 

But  today  the  electric  range  gives  the  housewife  scientific 
exactness — in  the  utilization  of  the  heat  and  the  cooking  of  the 
food.  Perfect  cookery  demands  electric  heat  because  of  its 
flameless,  odorless  generation,  uniform  intensity,  even  distri- 
bution and  instant  perfect  regulation. 

Cooking  authorities  have  recognized  the  infinite  possibilities  of 
the  electric  cooking  chamber.  The  prediction  is  offered  that  the 
future  cooking  device — both  domestic  and  commercial — will  be 
an  electric  oven  having  different  sized  compartments  because 
of  the: 

Heat  uniformly  distributed  on  all  sides  instead  of  at  bottom  only 

Thorough  cooking  because  of  the  concentrated  heat 

Non- circulation  of  air  which  minimizes  evaporation 

Absence  of  gaseous  fumes 

Adaptability  for  steaming  processes 

Great  saving  in  heat 

Assurance  of  results  through  control 

Removal  of  all  possibility  of  burning  or  over-  or  under- cooking. 

Methods  of  Cookery.  The  usual  processes  of  cookery  are: 
Roasting,  baking,  broiling,  boiling,  steaming,  stewing  and  frying. 


BETTER  COOKED  FOOD  137 

There  are  other  methods  which  are  merely  variations  or  combin- 
ations of  these,  a  knowledge  of  which  is  useful  but  not  entirely- 
necessary  to  a  salesman. 

Roasting,  baking  and  broiling  are  dry-heat  processes.  Boiling, 
steaming,  stewing  and  frying  are  wet-heat  processes.  And  the 
temperatures  necessary  in  these  seven  processes  increase  in  this 
order:  Simmering,  stewing,  steaming,  boiling,  baking,  frying, 
roasting  and  broiling. 

Roasting  and  baking  are  done  by  dry,  radiated  heat.  Broiling 
is  done  by  a  more  intense  and  glowing  radiated  heat.  Boiling 
is  cooking  by  submerging  the  food  or  substance  in  water  at  an 
initial  temperature  of  212  degrees  F. 

Steaming  is  cooking  through  a  medium  of  steam  arising  from 
boiling  water.  Stewing  is  a  modified  boiling  process,  less  water 
being  used.  The  object  is  to  extract  (not  to  retain)  the  juices 
of  meat,  vegetables  and  fruit.  By  this  method  are  produced  the 
gravies  of  meats  and  vegetables,  the  juices  of  fruits.  A  stew  is 
usually  started  with  cold  water,  the  temperature  being  gradually 
raised  to  about  185  degrees  F.  and  maintained  at  that  point. 

In  all  these  methods  with  the  exception  of  steaming  and  stew- 
ing, the  foods  are  subjected  to  a  high  temperature  in  the  begin- 
ning to  '"seal"  the  surface  or  form  a  crust  thus  retaining  the 
flavors,  necessary  moisture  and  nourishing  values.  These 
methods  are  described  in  detail  in  the  following  paragraphs 
on  foods. 

Breads  and  Pastries.  In  electric  cookery,  the  mixing  of  breads 
and  pastries  requires  less  milk  or  water  as  less  evaporation  takes 
place  in  the  electric  oven  than  in  the  fuel  oven.  This  is  due  to 
the  non-circulation  of  air  and  the  resultant  uninterrupted  action 


138  SELLING  POINTS 


of  the  heat  upon  the  dough.  Breads  and  i5astries  develop  a 
finer,  softer  texture  because  the  loaf  is  more  uniformly  raised 
and  thoroughly  and  uniformly  baked.  Their  crusts  are  thinner 
and  more  evenly  browned  and  of  a  finer,  softer  texture. 

In  the  use  of  the  two  commonly  known  agents  for  raising  bread- 
stuffs,  yeast  and  baking  powder,  a  gas  is  liberated  within  the 
mass  of  dough  which  expands  and  reaches  every  portion,  some 
of  it  escaping  to  the  outside  air.  But  a  great  deal  of  this  gas, 
enough  to  accomplish  its  purpose,  is  retained  within  the  dough 
and  forms  myriads  of  little  bubbles  each  of  which  makes  a 
minute  cell.  As  the  cells  are  formed  the  heat  gradually  removes 
the  moisture  from  the  dough,  stiffens  the  texture  immediately 
surrounding  the  little  gas  bubbles  and  the  finished  mass  reaches 
a  definite,  permanent  form  in  the  shape  of  the  finished  loaf  or 
other  bread-stuff.  It  can  be  very  reasonably  seen  that  there 
should  be  a  certain  amount  of  unity  in  action  between  the  rising 
and  baking  process.  As  the  rising  takes  place  before  the  stiffen- 
ing of  the  dough  around  the  minute  gas  cells,  the  gas  is  liable 
to  escape  from  the  still,  limpid  dough.  If  this  happens  the  gas 
cells  will  be  broken  and  collapsed  and  the  dough  will  again  take 
on  its  original  form  of  a  dense  mass.  If,  on  the  other  hand,  the 
leavening  gas  has  not  had  a  chance  to  rise  throughout  the  dough, 
the  loaf  will  not  reach  that  point  of  "lightness"  but  will  bake  to 
a  sodden  heavy  mass,  the  body  being  hard  and  solid  with  few 
or  none  of  those  little  cells. 

Where  the  proper  relation  between  rising  and  cooking  is  sus- 
tained, the  little  gas  cells  will  be  smaller,  more  numerous,  more 
evenly  formed  and  uniformly  distributed. 

Generally  for  one-pound  loaves  of  bread,  the  correct  temper- 
ature for  placing  the  dough  in  the  oven  is  400  to  500  degrees  F. 


BETTER  COOKED  FOOD  139 

This  temperature  is  attained  by  turning  on  both  the  upper  and 
lower  units.  It  is  then  maintained  by  turning  the  upper  unit 
off  and  the  lower  one  to  medium  or  low  heat.  The  more  satis- 
factory method  of  determining  these  temperatures  is  to  use  a 
Fahrenheit  thermometer.  Any  reliable  recipe  book  may  be 
used  in  cooking  in  the  electric  oven.  Biscuits  and  rolls  may  be 
baked  at  a  higher  temperature  because  they  are  smaller  and  the 
process  is  quicker. 

Vegetables.  Vegetables  are  watery  foods.  By  the  old-fashioned 
method  of  cookery,  they  are  usually  boiled  in  an  indefinite  amount 
of  water.  This  method  applied  the  heat  through  the  water — 
and  a  large  part  of  the  flavor,  color  and  nutriment  were  boiled 
out  of  the  vegetable  and  into  the  liquid  and  then  drained  off 
and  thrown  away.  This  process  is  one  which  had  to  be  watched 
and  gauged  with  accuracy  to  give  the  most  satisfactory  results. 
Failure  or  success  was  more  largely  dependent  upon  ''accident,'' 
and  the  result  was  quite  often  over-  or  under-done  dishes.  With 
some  certain  vegetables  the  result  was  apt  to  be  tough,  stringy 
or  otherwise  unpalatable. 

But  in  the  oven  of  the  electric  range  or  the  electric  cooker  it  is 
possible  to  steam  vegetables  with  a  very  small  amount  of  water. 
The  kettle  is  enclosed  in  a  comparative  air-tight  compartment 
and  the  steam  is  generated,  conserved  and  superheated  and  acts 
as  a  much  better  medium  for  heat  distribution  and  application. 
The  material  food  values  and  full  flavor  are  therefore  retained 
in  the  vegetables  as  they  cannot  be  absorbed  by  the  steam.  A 
longer  time  must  be  allowed  than  for  boiling  and  the  process  is 
started  in  either  cold  or  hot  water.  Another  name  for  this 
method  is  ''Conservative  Cookery.'* 

The    following    table    shows    the    advantages    in    steaming 


140  SELLING  POINTS 


vegetables  electrically.  It  compares  the  losses  which  occur  in 
boiling  and  steaming  of  the  edible  portions.  Published  through 
the  courtesy  of  the  Home  Economics  Journal. 

Solids  Ash 

Spinach,  boiled 31.59%  lost         51.65%  lost 

steamed 0.18%  "             9.34%     " 

Difference 31.41%  42.31% 

Cabbage,  boiled 32.86%  "          42.62%     " 

steamed 2.54%  "           11.47%     " 

Difference 30.32%  31.15% 

Carrots,  cut  up  and  boiled 10.05%  **           11.48%     " 

boiled  whole. 6.28%  **            7.38%     " 

Difference 3.77%  4.10% 

Carrots  steamed  6%  sugar  lost 

**       boiled  whole  17%  sugar  lost 
"       boiled  cut  up  26%  sugar  lost 

Meats.  Meat  is  roasted,  broiled,  fried,  stewed  or  boiled.  In 
roasting,  broiling,  frying  and  generally  in  boiling,  it  is  immed- 
iately subjected  to  a  high  temperature,  forming  a  crust  which 
retains  much  of  the  food  values. 

Usually  boiling  is  done  for  the  use  of  the  meat  only.  But 
stewing  is  done  for  the  use  of  both  the  meat  and  the  liquid  part 
of  the  stew.  In  boiling,  the  whole  piece  of  meat  is  submerged  in 
boiling  water  and  the  surface  coagulated.  In  stewing,  the  meat 
is  cut  into  small  pieces  to  get  large  surface  area  and  the  process 
started  in  cold  water  to  dissolve  the  protein  and  extract  the  fla- 
vors. The  heat  is  gradually  increased  until  it  reaches  about  180 
degrees  F.  at  which  temperature  the  cooking  is  continued.  By 
this  process  the  broth  will  be  rich  and  nourishing — but  the  meat, 
while  tender,  lacks  in  a  great  measure  its  nutriment  and  flavor. 

There  are  two  kinds  of  protein — each  requiring  a  different  heat 
treatment.  The  protein  in  the  muscle  dissolves  in  cold  water  and 
hardens  imder  high  temperature.    The  protein  of  the  connective 


BETTER  COOKED  FOOD  141 

tissue  which  holds  the  muscle  fibres  together,  shrivels  and  be- 
comes tough  under  dry  heat,  softens  under  slow  heat  and  dis- 
solves under  continuous  boiling. 

In  the  electrical  roasting  of  meats,  less  shrinkage  takes  place 
because  there  is  very  little  evaporation.  To  understand  this 
appreciable  saving,  one  must  know  the  effect  of  the  heat  on  the 
various  chemical  constituents  of  protein,  starch  and  fat. 

An  analysis  of  beef  shows  that  lean  beef  contains  75%  water, 
medium  fat  beef  about  72%  water,  very  fat  beef  53%  water.  As 
there  is  a  greater  loss  in  weight  when  cooking  very  fat  meat  than 
lean  meat  it  is  obvious  that  water  is  not  the  only  loss. 

It  is  best  to  place  the  meat  in  the  oven  when  it  has  reached  a 
temperature  of  from  250  to  300  degrees  F.  Within  a  short 
time  the  temperature  should  be  reduced  to  about  200  degrees 
and  the  meat  left  for  the  roasting  period  which  depends  on 
the  weight  of  the  piece  and  the  results  desired.  Authorities 
say  that  eighteen  to  twenty  minutes  per  pound  will  produce  the 
best  cooked  piece  of  meat. 

When  a  roast  goes  into  the  hot  oven,  the  surface  is  coagulated 
and  acts  as  a  protective  shell  against  loss  of  juices  and  aroma. 
Thus  the  roast  loses  only  10%  to  12%  of  its  weight,  virtually  all 
the  nutritive  value  is  retained  and  the  flavor  and  digestibility 
are  much  better  than  if  the  meat  has  been  subjected  to  fuel 
flame  and  a  constant  circulation  of  cool  air. 

The  muscle  fibres  of  meat  consist  of  bundles  of  microscopic 
tubes  of  an  albumenoid  substance  held  together  by  the  connec- 
tive tissues  and  fat  cells.  Tubes  of  the  muscle  fibres  contain 
water  holding  in  solution  many  different  substances  necessary 
to  the  nourishment  of  a.  healthy  body,  such  as  valuable  salts  of 
potash  and  phosphoric  acid.  The  connective  tissue  is  converted 
into  gelatin. 


142  SELLING  POINTS 


In  the  presence  of  water  this  tissue  absorbs  five  times  its  weight, 
dissolves  when  heated,  and  sets  in  viscid  jelly  when  cooled.  This 
property  is  however  quickly  destroyed  when  heated  to  284 
degrees  F. 

For  cooking  the  muscle  fibres,  a  temperature  of  only  170  de- 
grees F.  is  necessary  to  coagulate  and  loosen  the  fibres.  For 
cooking  the  connective  tissues  a  temperature  of  about  200  de- 
grees F.  will  yield  gelatin.  The  cooking  of  the  connective  tissues 
is  greatly  aided  by  the  presence  of  water  in  the  meat  and  is 
thereby  made  far  more  digestible.  The  fat  has  been  made  more 
brittle  and  nourishing  by  the  extraction  of  part  of  the  water. 
The  retention  of  a  part  of  the  mineral  matter  is  valuable  in 
building  up  muscle  tissue.  And  the  improved  flavor  comes  from 
the  concentration  of  the  salts  and  extractives. 

As  75%  of  most  meat  consists  of  water,  the  cook  is  not  only 
wasting  fuel  but  causing  a  rapid  evaporation  when  the  temper- 
ature is  over  212  degrees  F.  The  surface  dries  out  and  allows 
the  inner  juices  to  ooze  out  carrying  with  them  the  valuable 
juices  and  mineral  salts. 


''J^  OOD       HOUSEKEEPING       Institute 
i    «   heartily    endorses    electric    cookery. 
^^  Electricity  produces  a  clean  heat;  it 
is  convenient  to  use — in  truth  a  perfect  ser- 
vant   responding    instantly    to    regulation; 
and  finally,  the  cooking  results  to  be  ob- 
tained from  it  are  excellent  in  a  uniformity 
of  texture  and  the  development  of  flavor." 
— Good  Housekeeping  Institute. 


Advantages  of  Electric  Range 

Scientific  Cookery.  The  electric  range  is  the  one  scientific 
cooking  device.  Perfect  cookery  and  identical  results  are  ob- 
tained every  day  in  the  year  through  its  ideal  generation  and 
distribution  of  heat.  The  electric  process  improves  every  method, 
and  furthers  every  principle  of  the  modern  domestic  scientists 
and  dietitians  and  produces  more  delicious,  digestible,  nourish- 
ing food  than  is  turned  out  by  any  other  cooking  device.  See 
Better  Cookery,  page  135. 

Simplest  Operation.  No  other  cooking  device  is  as  simple  in 
operation  or  as  easy  to  handle.  Any  desired  heat  can  be  quickly 
obtained  by  a  turn  of  the  switch.  There  is  no  fuel  to  order,  store 
nor  worry  about;  no  coal  nor  wood  to  carry;  no  matches  to 
scratch;  no  fire  to  build  nor  watch;  no  flue  to  operate  and  no 
ashes  to  dump.  It  does  away  with  the  coal  bin,  chimney  and 
ash  pan. 

Perfect  Control.  Each  surface  and  oven  unit  is  controlled  by  a 
switch  which  gives  three  degrees  of  heat — Full,  Medium  and 
Low.  Medium  heat  is  just  one-half  as  hot  as  Full  heat.  And 
Low  heat  is  just  one-quarter  as  hot  as  Full  heat.  These  different 
degrees  are  absolute;  they  never  vary  or  fluctuate.  Therefore 
the  range  is  absolutely  dependable  and  does  not  require  close 
watching  when  the  cooking  is  being  done.  Supervision  has  been 
superseded  by  timing.  There  is  no  worry  about  room  tempera- 
ture, gas  pressure,  heating  quality  of  coal,  condition  of  the  flue, 
velocity  of  the  wind,  humidity  and  other  by-gone  cooking 
factors. 

Heat  Conservation.  The  electric  oven  is  designed  with  a  thick 
insulation  which  retains  the  heat  long  after  the  current  has  been 
switched  off.    Therefore  the  cooking  is  done  principally  on  the 

143 


144  SELLING  POINTS 


conserved  heat  which  can  be  maintained  by  having  one  of  the 
units  turned  Low. 

Tests  have  proven  that  the  electric  range  is  85  percent  efficient, 
the  gas  range  20  percent  efficient  and  the  coal  range  only  2  percent 
efficient.  In  other  words  85  percent  of  the  electric  heat,  20  percent 
of  the  gas  heat  and  2  percent  of  the  coal  heat  is  generally  utilized. 

Appreciated  Coolness.  The  electric  range  oven  radiates  less 
heat  than  any  other  stove  owing  to  the  insulation.  The  electric 
range  is  strictly  a  cooking  device  and  not  a  kitchen  heating  appli- 
ance like  the  coal  and  gas  range.  It  is  especially  appreciated  in  the 
Summer  when  preparing  a  meal  over  a  fuel  range  is  almost  un- 
bearable. After  cooking  electrically  the  housewife  is  fresher,  the 
kitchen  more  cool  and  comfortable  and  the  ice  in  the  refrig- 
erator unaffected. 

Utmost  Cleanliness.  As  electric  heat  is  developed  from  wires — 
open  or  enclosed — there  is  no  flame,  no  combustion,  therefore 
no  smoke,  fumes,  sooty  pots,  discolored  walls  nor  vitiated  air. 
All  the  hot,  dirty  work  of  building,  lighting  and  watching  the 
fire  and  the  cleaning  up  of  waste  material  is  done  many  miles 
away  in  the  central  station  power  house. 

Absolute  Safety.  Operating  without  matches  or  flame,  the  elec- 
tric range  eliminates  all  possibilities  of  fire,  explosion  and  as- 
phyxiation. Moreover  there  is  no  danger  of  flying  sparks,  no 
danger  of  electric  shocks.  Children  may  play  with  the  range 
and  liquids  may  boil  over  without  accident. 

Economic  Factors.  The  electric  range  is  a  direct  factor  in  a 
great  saving  of  food,  time,  worry,  kitchen  space.  It  reduces  the 
drudgery  and  supervision  of  the  kitchen  easily  by  half. 

Using  Appliances  on  Range  Socket.  A  number  of  central 
stations  permit  their  cooking  customers  to  use  appliances  on  the 


ADVANTAGES  OF  ELECTRIC  RANGE  145 

cooking  rate — permitting  them  to  be  attached  to  appliance  re- 
ceptacle which  is  installed  on  standard  makes  of  electric  ranges 
today. 

This  makes  an  excellent  talking  point  in  selling  a  range  and 
the  loss  in  revenue  is  comparatively  small  as  there  are  only  two 
or  three  appliances  which  can  be  used  in  the  kitchen:  The  elec- 
tric iron  and  electric  washer.  The  chafing  dish,  toaster  and  grill 
are  generally  used  on  a  dining  room  table  and  of  course  the  cord 
will  not  reach  to  the  kitchen.  The  electric  cleaner  is  not  used  in 
the  kitchen,  so  this  current  will  never  be  taken  from  a  range 
socket.  The  central  station  will  therefore  find  that  very  little 
current  is  used  from  an  appliance  receptacle  on  a  range  and  that 
in  permitting  a  woman  to  use  an  appliance  or  two  on  current 
through  a  range  meter  will  more  than  pay  for  itself  by  securing 
her  good-will. 

Overcoming  Obstacles 

Price.  Selling  electric  cookery  is  not  done  automatically — nor  is 
it  a  lazy  man's  job.  There  are  many  points  of  resistance  which 
must  be  overcome.  The  most  serious  is  perhaps  the  price  which 
is  overcome  by  thoroughly  selling  the  idea  of  electric  cooking 
service  and  introducing  a  time  payment  plan.  Nearly  every 
**high-priced"  article  today  is  sold  on  the  installment  plan  irre- 
spective of  the  financial  condition  of  the  purchaser.  See  Time 
Payments,  page  75. 

Operating  Cost.  The  operating  cost  is  not  a  serious  considera- 
tion when  the  user  has  been  educated  to  the  economical  use  of  the 
range  and  a  full  appreciation  of  the  possibilities  of  heat  conser- 
vation. 

But  it  is  unjust  to  make  a  dollar-and-cents  comparison  be- 
tween an  electric  and  a  fuel  cooking  bill.  There  are  many  items 
covered  and  provided  for  in  an  electric  bill  which  are  not  in  a  fuel 


146  SELLING  POINTS 


bill.  Place  a  rightly-merited  definite  value  on  the  many  advan- 
tages derivevi  from  cooking  electrically  and  it  \\411  many  times 
more  than  compensate  for  the  cost  of  the  current. 
^^ Slower''  Operation.  In  electrical  cookery  many  of  the  pro- 
cesses are  "slower"  than  the  other  (older  methods).  In  approach- 
ing this  phase  of  selling,  the  salesman  should  get  the  right  angle-  - 
that  this  is  an  advantage — not  a  disadvantage. 

His  work  is  not  that  of  introducing  a  new  kind  of  **cook  stove** 
to  which  the  housewife  must  become  accustomed  and  change 
her  **good**  methods  of  food  preparation.  The  correct  interpre- 
tation (presentation)  is  just  the  opposite.  And  it  has  been 
demonstrated  in  domestic  science  -by  good  cooks  the  world 
over  that  of  the  ver>'  many  cooking  processes,  the  majority 
produce  better  results  when  perfonned  in  the  "slow  way;"  that 
the  rapid  preparation  of  food  is  (generally  speaking)  detrimental 
to  the  best  results. 

The  progress  of  the  culinar>'  art  has  only  been  possible  through 
the  advancement  of  superior  methods  for  controlling  and  dis- 
tributing heat,  the  majority  of  these  being  directed  along  the 
research  lines  of  even  distribution  and  temperature  control.  It 
was  appreciated  that  the  heat  should  thoroughly  penetrate  the 
food  stuffs  and  produce  uniform  results  throughout.  The  truth 
of  this  theor>'  has  been  evident  from  the  ver>'  beginning  and  it  is 
only  because  of  the  limitations  of  the  known  methods  of  fuel- 
heat  control  that  progress  up  to  the  point  of  electrical  cooker>' 
was  never  before  attained. 

Instead  of  the  housewife  looking  at  the  situation  as  neces- 
sitating a  change  in  her  methods  of  preparation  of  food,  she 
should  appreciate  the  wonderful  advantage  in  being  able  to  pre- 
p€u^  her  foods  in  the  ri^ht  way  and  adapting  the  rest  of  her 
household  duties  to  this  more  natural,  easier  order  of  things. 


OVERCOMING  OBSTACLES  147 

And  this  advantage  applies  not  alone  to  the  kitchen — in  the 
cooking;  it  shows  its  remarkable,  beneficial  influence  in  the 
whole  process  of  housekeeping — home  making.  The  electric 
range  is  an  event — an  innovation — of  the  newer,  better  order  of 
things. 

Let  the  salesman  begin  at  the  beginning — the  correct  prepara- 
tion of  foods.  Let  him  lead  her  slowly,  assuredly  through  the 
real  fundamentals  of  correct  cookery  and  she  will  arrive  at — not 
the  fuel  range,  or  any  of  the  other  old-time  methods  but — the 
electric  range! 

Heating  Kitchen.  Ofttimes  where  homes  do  not  have  adequate 
heating  facilities  and  the  warming  of  a  kitchen  and  dining  room 
is  dependent  upon  the  kitchen  range,  a  woman  will  hesitate 
about  the  purchase  of  an  electric  range  because  it  does  not  heat 
the  kitchen. 

In  the  first  place  it  is  not  the  purpose  of  the  range  to  heat  the 
kitchen.  Its  purpose  is  to  cook  food  without  heating  the  kitchen. 
This  idea  should  be  thoroughly  driven  home.  In  the  second 
place,  this  may  often  be  easily  overcome  by  selling  the  woman  a 
garbage  incinerator  which  can  be  installed  beside  the  range. 
This  device  will  supply  sufficient  warmth  through  the  burning  of 
garbage,  paper  and  other  waste  material  to  adequately  heat  the 
kitchen  and  dining  room.  Sometimes  of  course  a  little  coal  is 
necessary  but  not  sufficient  to  make  any  appreciable  increase  in 
the  monthly  cost  of  cooking  food  and  heating  the  kitcheil. 

Some  salesmen  sell  auxiliary  electric  heaters,  others  oil  heaters. 
But  in  every  case  they  do  not  permit  the  problem  to  hinder  the 
sale.  The  rapid  increase  in  the  sale  of  heating  systems  through- 
out the  United  States  is  helping  to  solve  this  problem.  It  will 
not  be  many  years  before  virtually  every  home,  urban  and  sub- 
urban, will  have  a  central  heating  system. 


148  SELLING  POINTS 

A  distinct  separation  of  the  two  ideas  should  be  made:  (1) 
The  correct  preparation  of  foods — electrical  cookery;  (2)  heat- 
ing the  kitchen.  During  the  few  months  of  the  year  when  the 
heating  of  the  kitchen  is  a  matter  to  be  considered,  an  auxiliary 
such  as  an  additional  radiator,  an  extra  heating  stove  or 
electric  heater,  oil  stove,  gas  radiator  is  a  far  better  solution  than 
to  continue  old-time  cooking  methods  at  such  a  loss  and  incon- 
venience simply  to  heat  the  kitchen.  When  a  comparison  is  drawn 
strongly,  face  to  face  with  the  facts,  the  idea  of  abandoning  the 
wonderful  advantages  of  electric  cookery  simply  to  heat  the 
kitchen  during. the  few  months  of  November,  December,  January 
and  February  looks  ridiculous  and  becomes  entirely  subservient 
to  the  many  more  important  advantages  gained  through  the  use 
of  the  electric  range. 

Water  Heating,  This  sometimes  is  a  resistance  point  when  a 
prospect  has  been  heating  water  in  connection  with  the  old  coal 
or  gas  stove  and  a  central  station  is  not  making  a  low  rate  for 
this  class  of  service.  In  such  a  case  the  problem  is  solved  by 
attaching  the  coils  of  the  storage  tank  to  the  furnace  (which  of 
course  is  only  possible  in  winter),  or  installing  a  small  coal  heater 
or  a  waste  incinerator.  Either  of  which  will  supply  hot  water  of 
adequate  quantity. 

Central  stations  however  can  establish  a  profitable,  yet  reason- 
able water  heating  rate  and  install  electric  heaters  without  appre- 
ciably'increasing  the  individual  connected  load  or  demand.  See 
Electric  Water  Heaters,  page  185. 

Teaching  Range  Operation.  Teaching  Japanese,  Chinese, 
Mexicans  and  negro  servants  to  operate  the  electric  range  is  a 
simple  matter.  The  ease  of  operation,  saving  of  labor,  shorten- 
ing of  methods,  sureness  of  results,  increased  cleanliness  of  uten- 
sils and  all  other  (**selfish")  advantages  of  electrical  cookery  are 


OVERCOMING  OBSTACLES  149 

grasped  in  a  surprisingly  quick  way.  On  the  Pacific  Coast  a 
large  number  of  Mongolian  servants  quickly  learned  the  efficient 
operation  of  the  electric  range.  In  the  southwest  Mexican  ser- 
vants have  no  trouble  whatsoever  in  becoming  good  electric 
range  cooks.  In  the  Southeast  and  up  to  the  Mason-Dixon  Line 
a  small  army  of  colored  servants  delight  in  the  operation  of  this 
new  cooking  device. 

Where  the  operator  is  illiterate  and  cannot  even  read  the 
**High,  Medium  and  Low"  degrees  of  the  switches,  the  manufac- 
turer or  central  station  colors  these  indications  and  the  servant 
quickly  understands  that  red  means  High  or  green  means  Me- 
dium or  black  means  Low — or  some  similar  arrangement. 

If  possible  the  better  plan  in  promoting  electric  cookery  in 
towns  where  foreign  servants  predominate  is  to  get  a  native 
demonstrator.  He  or  she  will  have  more  influence  and  create  a 
better  understanding  than  an  American  demonstrator.  For  ex- 
ample, the  Charlottesville  85  Albermarle  Railway  Co.,  of  Char- 
lottesville, Virginia,  employes  a  colored  teacher  in  a  local 
school  for  negros. 

She  is  in  charge  of  the  educational  work  with  her  people; 
teaches  electric  cooking  in  her  classes  and  does  demonstra- 
tion work  after  school.  This  company  has  also  found  that  it  is 
profitable  to  give  a  diploma  to  the  colored  servants  after  they 
have  reached  a  certain  degree  of  proficiency  in  electric  cooking. 
This  has  made  a  tremendous  hit  and  has  created  great  rivalry 
among  the  colored  cooks. 

When  selling  a  range  to  a  home  with  a  foreign  cook,  a  good 
plan  is  to  install  a  "tell-tale"  light  both  in  the  kitchen  and  living 
room,  where  the  master  or  mistress  may  occasionally  watch  it  to 
see  if  the  servant  is  switching  off  the  ctirrent  when  the  range  is 
not  in  use. 


THE 

TRUTH 

AND 

THE 

PROOF 


ABOUT  ELECTRIC  COOKING 


THE      TBT7TH      AKD      THE      PROOF 

ABOUT      SLBOT'RIO      OOOKIMO 

"A"                                    PUllipe  Blvd.  and  Hamilton  Ave. 
Pomona,  California. 

April  1»,  l»l«. 
Southern  CaliforaU  Edi«>o  Company, 

Pomona.  California. 
Gentlemen: 

We  have  been  using  ^n  Elsctric  Range  for  three  years. 
„,  ..  ,  ,.,,       ^^_^_^ mMu'.»u.i     *°*    ""   "'"'    '''*   "''''''    ' 

tad.  from  the  atasdpolnt  of  eaelaoey,  aeoBaov  sad  eoo- 
nsience,  I  would  sot  exchange  lor  any  other  matfaod  of 

Vary  truly  your.. 

UES.  SIDNXY  &  HAKKIS. 

•^-                                                     2«12  Dd  Mar  Avuiue, 
Lot  Aogelea,  Callfoisla. 

April  It,  l»l(. 

Venice,  CalUornia. 
GenUemen: 

pleased  with  my  Electric  Range,  and  Snd  it  all   that  I 
anUcipated.      The    even,    well  regu 

the  delicioua  taste  of  the  food  which   i^BHJHUHH 
retaina    iU    natural     Savor    when   fKKI^^^^^m 
eooked    by     electricity,     makee     it   I^^^^^^^^^H 
superior   to   any   range  I  have   ever    aB^B^^^^B 
used.    I  have  enjoyed  using  it  in  the    l^^n^F^H 
aix  montba  I  have  had  it  and  never    IMgwWr^lW 
expect  to  use  any  other  kind.                I^^BBlIK     IB 
Yours  truly,                            ^^^^^^B-     9B 
URS.  L.  H.  BRIDGES.       ^^^^K|oS 

■HBH^^^^^^^^Sj     foel   is  surely  the  best  range 
HH^B|Hh|^^^      that  is  in  existence.    We  are 
aMPB^MBJiJ^^^^j     """  f>e'>s«'l  «>'>>  ite  workings 
^BM^^JI^B      intveryway.    We  also  Sod  it 

j^^BB^^B^^Mt      thought  of       ip  it. 
aj^^^^^^^HH^^^^^I                  Yours  very  truly, 
■HjjjHHHH 
-       ClEAM 

•B"                                               Piedmont  Drive,  Alt«Jen.. 

Pasadena,  Cal,  July  ».  I»l«. 
Southern  California  Edison  Company. 
Paaadena.  Calif. 

to  the  electric  rang,  you  insUlled  for  me  laat  February. 
I  have  used  it  in  tery  way  possible  to  use  a  atove.    The 

thing  I  have  ever  tried  and  I  would  not  «^ch.ng.  (or  p» 

reveUtion  to  me  for  I  had  always  h«ird  that  a.  lUotri. 
Range  waa  an  expensive  luxury,  hut  I  have  found  that  It 
baa  been  very  reasonablft 

If  you  wUh  to  refer  anyone  to  me,  I  would  he  glad  to 

Your,  truly, 

(Signed)  MRS.  NIMICK  CRONER. 

El  Segundo  Transfer  Company,       l^BHHBBBHBI 
Kl  Segundo,  CaL                                    •WOBT 
J.  &  Ou,  Proprietor. 
•N*                                                                       Bn  lit. 
B  Segundo,  OUifomla. 

August  1,  I»l«. 
Southara  OaUfoniia  Edison  Company. 

Redondo  Beach.  California. 
Oestlamec: 

houM  at  El  Segundo.    I  cook  regularly  (or  t«i  p«>pl^ 
aomatlmaa  mor^  and  I  have  cooked  one  meal  (or  twenty 

in  every  way.. 

Your.  rim»rely. 

URS.  J.  a  ORB. 

Cover  and  two  pages  from  a  range  booklet  published  by  the  Southern 
California  Edison  Co.  Page  size  9"  x  4^\  This  book  contains  26  letters  of 
commendation  about  electric  ranges  from  range  owners  throughout  their 
territory;  and  it  was  illustrated  with   photographs  of  the  installations. 


CHAPTER  VIII 

ADVERTISING 

Purpose  and  Kinds 

Purpose.  Advertising  is  the  first  step  and  the  most  inexpensive 
factor  in  the  sale  of  an  articje.  Advertising  is  as  necessary  to 
sales  as  rain  to  crops.  It  is  just  as  broadcast  in  its  effect,  just  as 
important  in  its  value. 

Sales  are  made  only  after  a  customer  has  a  complete  knowledge 
of  the  article  and  the  service  that  it  renders.   Therefore  advertis- 

150 


PURPOSE  AND  KINDS 


151 


ing  is  a  form  of  education.  Advertisements  in  newspapers  and 
magazines  should  contain  electric  cooking  news  items  while  the 
permanent  publicity  like  billboards  and  street  car  cards  should 
carry  one  short  message,  one  concisely  stated  advantage,  which 
will  eventually  make  an  impression  and  create  a  more-than- 
passing  interest. 

Before  a  sale  is  made  a  certain  evolution  of  thought  must  take 
place  in  the  prpspect's  mind.  If  no  advertising  whatever  was 
done  a  salesman  would  have  to  make  call  after  call  on  the  pros- 
pect. But  advertising  will  do  this  at  one-hundredth  the  cost  of 
a  personal  call.    That  is  its  purpose. 

Methods,  There  are  numerous  media  which  may  be  employed 
to  advertise  electric  cookery,  for  example: 


Billboards 

Bills,  monthly 

Booklets 

Carnivals 

Canvassers 

Charity  Bazaars 

Church  Socials 

Cooking  Schools 

County  Fairs 

Delivery  Wagons,  sides  of 

Demonstrations 

Department  Stores 

Domestic  Science  Classes 

"Electrical  Home"  Exhibits 

Electrical  Shows 

Envelopes,  backs  of 

Envelope  Inserts 

Folders 

Form  Letters 

Hardware  Stores 

Home  Furnishing  Shows 

Lantern  Slides 


Letterheads 

Magazines 

Menus 

Motion  Pictures 

Newspaper  Ads 

Novelties 

Parades 

Poster  Stamps 

Prize  Essay  Contests 

Programs 

Reading  Notices 

Recipe  Books 

Red  Cross  Rooms 

Restaurant  Windows 

Scenario  Contests 

Statements 

Salesroom  Exhibits 

Street  Car  Cards 

Street  Car  Transfers 

Signs,  electric 

Telephoning  Prospects 

Window  Displays 


152  ADVERTISING 


Campaign  Advertising.  A  central  station  must  feel  its  way 
before  it  begins  to  spend  very  much  money.  The  initial  campaign 
should  of  course  be  a  smash  but  not  such  a  costly  display  of 
advertising  that  will  arouse  temporary  curiosity  and  later  be  fol- 
lowed by  a  harmful  indifference  through  lack  of  money  to  con- 
tinue the  sales  effort.  The  beginning  or  start  requires  a  little 
more  steam  just  as  the  starting  of  a  locomotive.  But  a  certain 
amount  of  advertising  ^'steam^'  is  necessary  right  through  the  year 
to  k^ep  the  ranges  moving. 

The  first  thing  to  do  is  to  write  the  manufacturers  and  get 
their  assistance  in  preparing  a  range  campaign.  Get  samples  of 
their  advertising  and  dealer  helps.  A  knowledge  of  all  available 
literature  proves  valuable  because  most  all  of  it  will  fit  into  the 
local  activities.  If  the  range  manufacturers  are  putting  on  a 
national  campaign,  the  central  station  should  by  all  means  tie 
in  with  it  by  displaying  reproductions  of  the  national  magazines 
advertisements  and  by  putting  in  special  window  displays  and 
holding  demonstrations.  It  is  suggested  that  a  coupon  which 
may  be  returned  for  additional  information  be  included  in  the 
newspaper  and  magazine  advertisements  especially  during  the 
first  six  months  of  the  range  activities  because  every  effort  must 
be  made  to  secure  the  names  of  prospects:  See  Prospects  and 
Follow-Up  Work,  page  105. 

Between  campaigns,  regular  educational  advertising  should  be 
carried  on  continuously  but  when  a  periodical  campaign  is  staged 
every  method  of  advertising  should  be  employ  ed .  As  women  delight 
in  buying  exclusive  articles  and  in  being  shown  favors  by  special 
invitations,  it  is  a  good  plan  during  a  demonstration  to  hold 
special  cooking  * 'lectures''  for  the  more  prominent  women  of  the 
town.  They  should  be  invited  by  personally  written  letters  and 
impressed  with  the  fact  that  they  are  one  of  a  chosen  few. 


1 


PURPOSE  AND  KINDS 


153 


2^ Sidy  m  a 
OVER   HU  IN  USE 


Cit^^SAFZ  ECONOMICAL. 


JUST  TURN 

THE    SWITCH 

30  DAYS 

IFIRIEE    TlBI^^a. 


<2ffENiriRM  iliiiiii'Nois  JteugifRv^igE  ^omMm 


"-./r/g.//^?/ 


Changeable  panel  billboard  of  the  Central  Illinois 
Public  Service  Co.  installed  in  the  business  section  of 
Bushnell,  III.  The  panel  is  changed  every  week  and 
the  number  of  range  sales  are  always  in  public  view. 
This  idea  is  another  method  of  maintaining  interest 
in  electric  cookery. 

Continuous  Advertising.  Short  lively  campaigns  sell  a  few 
ranges.  But  it  takes  continuous  advertising  to  impress  upon  a 
townful  of  naturally  conservative  people  that  electric  cookery 
is  practicable  and  economical  and  has  come  to  stay.  Therefore 
sustained  effort  is  the  greatest  factor  in  successful  merchandising. 

The  purpose  of  continuous  effort  is  to  make  people  think  of 
electric  cookery  every  day — ^until  they  have  heard  and  read  about 
it  so  much  that  it  is  just  like  an  old  friend.  It  is  this  day-in-and- 
day-out  advertising  that  finally  convinces  and  converts  pur- 
chasers. 

Continuous  advertising  is  done  through  permanent  exhibits 
in  the  central  station  salesroom,  in  hardware  and  department 
stores,  on  billboards,  through  the  many  different  kinds  of  signs 
and  street  car  cards.  These  forms  of  advertising  work  continu- 
ously eighteen  hours  a  day,  365  days  of  the  year. 

A  novel  feature  of  a  billboard  erected  by  the  Central  Illinois 
Public  Service  Company  in  Bushnell,  Illinois,  was  a  movable 


AM  ELECmiC  RANGE  IN  THE  KITCHEN  — EVERYBODY  COOL,  COM  FY,  AND  HAPPY! 


r   Yes,  It  IS  hot  this  morning.  And  it's  funny,  isn't  it,  how  everything   j 
about  the  kitchen  goes  wrong  on  a  hot  day?  The  oo&l  scuttle  seemff^O— '^'" 
be  alwaye  empty  --  the  fire  gets  low  when  the  bread  and  cake  are  in    > 
the  oven  —  and  even  after  the  cooking  is  finished,  there  are  all  s.    C. 
those  black  pots  and  pans  to  scour!   It's  mighty  discouraging.     V    ^ 

c 

And  sometimes  it  tioesn't  seem  quite  fair.  Hubby  is  probably  down  at  ( 
the  office  sitting  under  an  electric  fan,  as  cool  as  that  proverbial  (^ 
cucumber,  and  yet  they  say  HE  is  the  one  who  WORKS,  while  all  you  do 
is  "keep  house". 

We  "wouldn't  knock  if  we  couldn't  boost,"   If  we  didn't  have  a  sur« 
solution  for  the  summer-cooking  problem,  we  wouldn't  talk  about  it. 
Hundreds  of  women  right  here  in  Salt  Lake  have  let  us  solve  that 
problem  for  them.  They  are  using  Electric  Ranges.  Now  everything 
goes  right  in  their  kitchens.  There  are  no  spoiled  bakings  —  no 
more  black  pots  and  pans  --no  more  hot  days. 

The  little  booklet,  "Brighter  and  Happier  Hours  in  the  Kitchen", 
which  we  enclose,  tells  the  story.  After  you  have  read  it,  call 
at  our  store  on  the  ground  floor  of  the  Kearns  Building  and  SIB 
FOR  YOURSELF  how  easy  it  is  to  operate  an  Eleotrio  Range,  It  is 
]  economical  too.  It  keeps  down  the  cos-b  of  fuel  and  food-stuffs  '\ 
4  almost  as  much  as  it  keeps  down  the  temperature  of  the  kitchen,  i 

)  > 

^  Every  day's  delay  means  more  long  hot  hours  In  the  kitchen.  Whjr,  \. 
.wait!  There's  an  Electric  Range  for  every  kitchen  --  every  purse 
/and  you  pay  only  a  small  sxim  down  and  the  rest  monthly.    ^  >( 
^^""^'^    '-^Very  truly  yours,  ,^ 


;> 


P 


UTAH  POUEB-A. LIGHT  COVPANT, 


Pv.'' 


±-€- 


One  of  a  series  of  sales  letters  used  by  the  Utah  Power  A  Light  Co,  in  their 

range  campaign.     This  particular  letter    is  printed  in  blue,  orange  and 

black  and  is  very  attractive. 


PURPOSE  AND  KINDS  155 

panel  upon  which  was  painted  each  week  the  number  of  ranges 
which  the  central  station  had  installed,  up  to  that  date. 

Very  few  if  any  range  manufacturers  furnish  central  stations 
and  dealers  with  lithographed  bill  posters  owing  to  their  ex- 
tremely high  cost.  But  the  central  station  or  dealer  can  have 
some  local  billboard  company  paint  several  boards  in  advan- 
tageous spots  around  the  town  at  a  small  maintenance  cost  per 
month.  All  available  signs  should  be  used:  Electric  signs  on  the 
roof,  muslin  signs  on  delivery  wagons  and  other  poster  spaces. 
Direct'hy-mail  Literature.  Direct-by -mail  literature  includes 
post  cards,  booklets,  folders,  envelope  inserts  and  sales  letters. 
A  special  list  of  live  prospects  should  be  compiled  to  which  these 
different  pieces  of  advertising  are  rhailed  periodically.  It  is  such 
persistent  effort  that  finally  acquaints  the  community  with  elec- 
tric cookery  and  eventually  makes  sales  of  ranges.  This  adver- 
tising should  be  mailed  so  that  it  will  arrive  at  its  destination  at 
a  favorable  time.  For  example:  A  letter  arriving  at  a  home 
Friday  morning  has  a  much  better  chance  to  secure  complete 
attention  of  the  housewife  than  if  it  is  delivered  Monday  morning 
when  she  is  busy  with  her  washing  or  making  out  the  week's 
schedule. 

Sales  Letters.  Sales  letters  should  be  mailed  periodically  to  a 
complete  list  of  prospects  and  a  personally  typewritten  letter  to 
a  select  list  of  women  at  least  once  every  two  or  three  weeks. 
Sales  letters  should  be  prepared  if  possible  by  a  manufacturer's 
advertising  department,  an  advertising  agency  or  the  merchan- 
dising staff  of  The  Society  for  Electrical  Development — if  the 
central  station  does  not  have  an  advertising  man  experienced  in 
this  particular  work. 

Sales  letters  must  be  short,  personal,  written  from  the  cus- 
tomer's angle  and  signed  with  ink.    They  should  contain  a  real 


stop  and  think  for  a  moment.  Madam,  of  the  intense  beat 
you  generate  In  your  kitchen  when  you  burn  an  ordinary  fuel 
range.  Now  remember,  tbat  much  of  this  heat  escapes — unused 
— up  the  chimney,  and  much  radiates  into  the  room!  How  dif- 
ferent with  an  Electric  range.  The  electric  company  first  gen- 
erates the  electricity  and  then  delivers  the  electric  service  to 
your  range,  which  In  turn  converts  the  electricity  into  heat  and 
applies  this  heat— without  waste— to  the  cooking  of  your  food. 
You  find  every  convenience  you  are  accustomed  to  on  the 
£lectrlc  range;  for  example,  the  roomy  warming  shelves  within 
easy  reach.  Just  above  the  cooking  surface  of  the  range. 


THE  HOT  PLATES  AND  VEQE- 
TABLE  COOKERS  OF  THE  ELEC- 
TRIC RANGE— Here  on  the  flat  and 
unobstructed  cooking  surface  of  the 
electric  range  are  located  the  hot 
plates  and  vegetable  cookers;  no 
smoke — no  fumes — no  flame!  Absolute 
safety  at  all  times!  Ordinary  flat  bot 
tomed  utensils,  to  which  you  are  ac 
customed — are  used;  the  switches  con- 
trol the  amount  of  heat  you  wish  for 
each  hot  plate  or  vegetable  cooker. 
The  hot  plates  are  use/l  mostly  for 
frying,  quick  boiling  and  other 
short  operations,  such  as  making 
sauces,  melting  butter  or  warming  up 
various  foods.  There  is  a  switch  for 
each  hot  plate  that  provides  varying 
degrees  of  heat 

The  vegetable  cookers  fit  down  into 
receptacles  provided  for  them  and  are 
especially  designed  for  preparing 
BtewB.  vegetables,  cereals,  stewed  pud- 
dings, pot  roasts,  etc.,  which  require 
steaming  or  boiling.  These  cookers 
can  also  be  used  as  warmers,  as  they 
keep  hot  for  some  time  after  the  heat 
has  been  turned  off.  Also  in  some 
operations  the  heat  can  be  turned  off 
before  the  article  is  cooked  and  the  re- 
mainder of  the  cooking  done  by  the 
stored  heat — on  the  principle  of  "flre- 
lesa  cookers." 


SWITCH  PANEL  AND  SWITCHES  THAT  CONTROL  THE 
HEAT — Your  very  first  glance  at  the  switch  i>anel  of  an  Electric 
range  will  instantly  disclose  to  you  how  simple,  how  quickly 
understood  and  how  easily  operated  these  Electric  cook  stoves 
are.  There  is  an  individual  switch  for  each  beating  element; 
you  can  tell  instantly  whether  the  switch  is  "oft"  or  "on."  A 
name  plate  betieath  each  switch  indicates  the  heating  element 
each  switch  operates.  Remember,  too,  that  any  desired  tempera- 
ture can  be  secured  on  the  top  units  or  in  the  oven  of  an  Electric 
range,  by  the  manipulation  of  the  switches  controlling  the  heat- 
ing elements.  And  best  of  all,  perhaps,  is  the  absolute  reliability 
of  securing  the  same  degree  of  heat  each  time;  you  quickly 
learn  what  temperatures  are  best  for  cooking  the  various  dishes 
you  prepare  and  thereafter  all  guesswork  is  eliminated 


The  Kitchen 


Inside  fold  of  a  double-page  sales  letter  of  the  Utah  Power  &  Light  Co. 


WARMING  CLOSET  OF  THE  ELECTRIC  RANGE— CommodlOM 
and  convenient  for  the  houscTvife's  use;  designed  tor  the  par- 
pose  of  keeping  dishes  and  food  ■warm  until  readj  to  serve.  The 
saving  of  food  an  Electric  range  effects,  is  one  of  its  greatest 
advantages.  Meat  and  other  food  cooked  in  an  Electric  range 
retains  a  verr  high  percentage  of  the  natural  juices,  which 
in  turn  result  in  a  heavy  saving  of  weight  Many  women  who 
use  Electric  ranges  declare  that  Electric  cooking  adds  twentj- 
five  per  cent  in  weight  to  every  roast  that  goes  to  the  table. 


THE  ELECTRIC  RANGE  OVEN— You 
ladies  who  hare  had  to  resort  to  guess- 
work and  trial  at  each  baking  becaose 
of  "slow"  flre«  or  hot  flres.  faulty 
draughts  and  the  consUnt  need  of  re* 
plenishing  fuel, .  stop  and  think  for  a 
moment  what  the  OTen  of  an  Electric 
range  means.  When  the  switches  of 
an  Electric  range  are  set  to  give  a 
certain  heat  you  know  positively  that 
the  same  amount  of  heat  will  be  given 
off  each  time. 

The  electric  range  has  made  cooking 
an  exact  science,  with  all  uncertainty 
eliminated.  Just  as  the  proper  por- 
tion of  ingredients  for  each  dish  la 
known  to  you,  so  is  known  the  correct 
amount  of  heat  to  apply  to  the  cook- 
ing of  each  separate  dish  And  on 
all  makes  of  Electric  ranges  this  heat 
is  instantly  regulated  to  whatever  de- 
gree of  temperature  Is  required. 

The  ovens  of  Electric  ranges  are 
correctly  and  substantially  construct- 
ed and  provided  with  heating  elements 
that  enable  you  to  secure  the  exact 
temperature  desired  for  any  and  all 
dishes. 


of  Today! 


THE  PAN  SHELF— Broad  and  deep  and  providing  plenty  of 
room  for  pots  and  pans  and  kettles;  a  strong,  substantial  shelf 
convenient  to  use  and  easily  kept  clean.  And  you  will  find. 
Madam,  that  all  Electric  ranges  contain  many  distinctive  fea- 
tures of  design,  operation  and  workmanship.  Electric  cook 
stoves  embody  the  resulta  of  extended  research  and  practical 
experience;  thousands  of  housewives  in  every  section  of  the 
United  States  are  using  Electric  ranges  more  successfully,  more 
economically  and  with  far  greater  personal  comfort  and  con- 
venience than  any  other  form  of  cook  stove  or  fuel. 

Every  source  of  discomfort  and  inconvenience  has  been  eli- 
minated with  Electric  range  cooking.  Here  is  flameless  cooking 
— safe  cooking— a  cool  kitchen— no  soot— no  ashes— no  dirt  The 
food  tastes  better  and  is  more  nourishing. 


which  graphically  describe*  the  advantages  of  the  electric  range. 


158  ADVERTISING 


message  and  some  definite  offer  or  suggestion  that  a  call  be  made 
at  the  salesroom  or  a  request  returned  for  additional  information. 
This  will  enable  the  close  checking  of  results  from  each  letter 
and  prove  a  reliable  guide  for  preparation  of  others.  For  the 
copy  viewpoint  see  Preparation  of  Copy,  page  167. 
Newspapers',  Slides,  Movies.  Newspaper  advertising  is  neces- 
sary in  a  range  campaign  to  comb  the  town  for  people  who  are 
slightly  interested  in  electric  cookery  and  who  can  be  developed 
into  live  prospects.  The  newspaper  can  be  made  a  most  wasteful 
advertising  medium  if  the  copy  does  not  have  a  definite  purpose, 
is  not  well  written  and  placed  in  the  most  advantageous  issues 
and  positions  of  the  best  papers.. 

The  first  announcement  should  be  a  full  page;  then  the  size 
can  be  brought  down  to  quarter  pages.  Anything  less  than  a 
quarter  page  however  is  generally  over-looked  as  the  majority 
of  people  only  go  through  a  newspaper  once  then  throw  it  away. 
Its  life  is  only  a  few  hours  and,  because  of  this  limitation,  news- 
paper ads  should  be  prepared  to  produce  a  striking,  telling  effect. 
Moreover  a  message  cannot  be  completely  told  nor  adequately 
displayed  in  an  advertisement  smaller  than  a  quarter  page. 

Profitable  newspaper  advertising  is  the  result  of  continuous 
effort.  It  has  a  cumulative  effect  like  a  snowball  rolling  down  hill. 
It  produces  more  and  more  as  it  is  continued.  Therefore  do  not 
allow  your  faith  or  enthusiasm  to  weaken  if  returns  do  not  reach 
expectations  during  the  first  few  weeks. 

During  this  time  advertisements  should  be  run  at  least  once 
a  week — twice  a  week  if  the  appropriation  will  permit.  For 
pointers  on  the  writing  of  the  advertisement,  see  Preparation 
of  Copy,  page  167. 

The  lantern  slide  is  an  excellent  advertising  medium  because 
it  gives  one  complete  thought  to  a  large  number  of  people  each 


You,  Too,  Will   Cook   On   An 
Electric   Range 

When  You're  Convinced  of  These  Surprising  Facts 


Saves  Five  Ways 


l-How  Ui«  el«tiin»Rge  »linl- 
WiM  gueMwork  in  oookind  and 
Nikmg,  Md  mtkn  entirely  crrlain 
jour  be«t  resuJta  under  all  rondi- 


3 — How  electric  cooking'  pre- 
Tnt»  ibouf  10  to  20  per  cent  of 
the  itariskage  (cooldng  down)  that 


5— How  electric  oooting  keep« 
the  «lr  in  jour  kitthen  ewecl  md 
pure..  Not  e^ea  a  plant  will  lire 


«— How  eleetri<-  cooking  keep* 
jotir  kit/rhen  cooler  and  far  more 
comfortable:  doe«  not  blaekeo  your 
pota  and  paaa.  doM  not  smoke  or 
imell  np  tie  houae,  aad  keepa  your 
kitchen  valla  axMl  eailln^  Bpotlesa. 


WiU  You  Keep  It? 

Hundreda  Anawer  "Yea!" 

•     Hundreds   of   S',.    Louis    house- 


Will  You  Take  Advan- 
tage  of  Our  Offer? 

Electric  cooking  haa  prosen  to 
be  the  eupcr-mcthod  of  prcpariag 

economic  adfantaBC  that  milliona 
in  other  cities  would  haiT  with  de- 
light. 

in  ToiiT  own  kitchen  the  wonderful 

Resolve  to  take  advanUge  of  our 


rite,  or  telephone  for  fu 
ion.    No  obligation  whal 


Our  Guarantee  Offer 


See  Electric  Ranges  in  Operation 
at  the  Household  Show 


xl  Mwn  io  up-U-datr  boQMho 


Di».«r„c_l.brc.deli,hU.n,* 


EUetricity  is  Chtap  in  St.  Loui$ 

The  Dectric  Company 

Union  Electric:     Main  Office,  1 2th  and  Locust 
Braachec    4912  Delmar;  3018  N.  Grand;  3012  S.  Grand 

SIX    OFFICER    IN    THE    COUNTY 


Full  page  newspaper  advertisement  of  the  Union  Electric  Light  &  Power 
Co.,  St.  Louia.  This  advertisement  is  considered  exceptionally  good  as  it 
graphically  portrays  the  many  advantages  of  electric  cookery.  Note  that  tt 
contains  the  deHnite-aciion  feature— -in  offering  free  tickets  to  the 
Household  Show  which\wasjieing  held  at  that  time  and  at  which  they  had 
an  electric  range  exhibit  and  demonstration. 


UTAH  POWER  &  LIGHT  CO. 


CIENT  PUBLIC  SERVICE  ■ 


August  12,  1915 


"The  most  interesting  thing  in  the  house"- -is  the  way  one  lady  ex- 
pressed herself  recently  in  speaking  of  her  new  electric  range. 

And  isn't  it  true  that  each  day  brings  a  greater  realization  of  the 
wonderful  possibilities  of  electric  cookinf-;?  V,e   are  anxious  that 
every  woman  who  owns  a  cook  stove  should  know  exactly  how  to  operate 
it  to  the  best  advantage  and  secure  uniform  results. 

Therefore,  during  the  present  roonth--August--w6  are  conducting  a  ser- 
ies of  exhibitions  and  demonstrations  of  electric  range  cooking  in  the 
model  electric  kitchen  of  our  retail  store,  ground  floor  Reams  Build- 
ing, every  Tuesday  and  Friday  afternoon,  for  the  benefit  of  jou  who  are 
already  using  electric  cock  stoves.  These  Tuesday  and  Friday  afternoon 
demonstrations  are  in  charge  of  experts  in  electric  cooking,  and  the 
purpose  of  this  letter  is  to  extend  you  a  personal  invitation  to  attend 
the  exhibitions,  bringing  with  you  as  oany  friends  as  you  wish. 

The  demonstrations  are  free  and  you  will  find  it  extremely  interesting 
to  ask  two  or  three  of  your  friends,  who  haven't  electric  ranges  e.s   yet, 
to  come  with  you  in  order  that  they  may  see  for  themselves  how  easy  and 
^^3?*xand  economical  electric  cocking  really  is.   The  ladies  in  charge 
■(,of  tn^^e  demonstrations  of  electric  ranges  in  actual  operation  will 
"  ifikj^glatl  to  answer  any  questions  you  may  ask  and  every  feature  of  elec- 
trlq^re^St^xpooking  will  be  explained  in  detail. 


■ — ^i^§py-<t'^'^fiz-:^'^®*?u^'irr^\ 

s  15=^2^  ^^  .U3^  'POWER '«Sul^HTCeMP^WY 


Another  sales  letter  of  the  Utah  Power  &  Light  Co.  printed  in  red,  green 

and    black.      This    letter    with    the    one    on    page  154  proved  unusually 

effective  because  of  their  colors  and  interesting  text* 


PURPOSE  AND  KINDS 


161 


O 


HAVE  YOO  StEN  THIS  CARD  IN   THE  STREET  CABS 


rOLlSD  MAKES  HOUSEKEEPING  A  NEW  SENSATION  C 

n  Low  Cost  A  Model  Kitchen  with 
J  all  its  clean,  labor-saving  economy  is 
y  possible  for  vou  on  our  riew  low  rate 
1  for  cooking  and  heating.  —  It  is  the 
3  cheapest  way  to  live— Let  us  explain  why. 
THE  EDISON   ELECTRIC    ILLUMINATING   CO. 

atxreett  3rom£S  OF  BOSTON  sjxrerM  sroifrs 


One    of   a    series    of   street    car    cards    of    the 
Edison     Electric    Illuminating     Co.,     Boston. 
One  advantage  of  electric  cookery  was  con- 
cisely described  in  each  card  of  the  series. 


evening  while  they  are  in  a  relaxed  and  absorbing  mood.  It  is 
read  because  it  is  easy  to  read  and  the  only  thing  which  can  be 
seen  in  the  dark  theatre.  The  motion  picture  is  considered  to  be 
an  advertising  method  between  95  and  100  percent  efficient  because 
it  gets  the  undivided  attention  of  its  entire  circulation-,  it  interests 
every  one  because  it  is  a  movie — a  story — because  it  is  life  it- 
self— the  most  interesting  thing  in  the  world;  because  it  presents 
a  complete  selling  argument  more  thoroughly  and  effectively  than 
a  human  salesman  possibly  could  and  to  hundreds  of  persons 
in  a  few  minutes.  Lantern  slides  and  in  some  instances,  motion 
pictures    are    furnished    by    electric    range    manufacturers. 


Educational  Work.  Educational  advertising  is  maintained  by: 
(a)  Securing  domestic  science  and  restaurant  installations  by 
holding  dinners  for  architects  and  builders,  owners  and  managers 
of  institutions  doing  commercial  cookery,  (b)  Establishing  such 
organizations  as  a  Cookery  Service  Bureau  or  a  Cooking  School. 
Such  Bureaus  and  similar  institutions  of  educational  advertising 
are  described  under  Sales  Development,  page  107. 


162 


ADVERTISING 


Cook  By  Electricity 

TVIoOowW.,  .,-  mmt  ELtLTKIC  RANGES  in  Iheir  home.Mil  are  enjoyinflV  BEST  OF  COOKING, 
Ttitie  h  3  Rruoo.    Aali  Ttiem.    Sm  Ua. 


S.mu<l  AnMdal;. 

t»t  Jcffcnon  Slir;! 

Alfred  W.  Mnier. 

Frv-f  Sprio« 

WiMi.m  H.  Woud. 

P..k  Slr«l 

Kirby  Snid«, 

fry'.  SprinK 

Di,  Hufh  Vii. 

Nr>e  Aparlnr  '* 

Mi..E.H.Mortim«, 

Ru,l.y  Road 

C  W.  aner. 

H,nlonA.»..B.'.v..^M 

Mn.  J.  F.  Cook. 

Rugby  Road 

j<»iM.x:och,.ft. 

W.  Main'Slrert 

Smart  Hanck.l. 

RusbyRoad 

John  L  U««>«. 

W.  Main  Sli«?l 

J.  Howard  Whelen. 

R.:gby  Road 

Univertify  At«. 

W.  D.   Gr«n, 

Rugby  Road 

Mn.  A.  W.  Schwh, 

Uoivcitily  A*c 

Mra.  C.  P.  Wertenbakar; 

J.  Z.  HollaJ.r. 

J.  T'J  i^irchs  John.00 

R.  T.  McL;,u(!»ll» 

Prot  W.  H.  Kaulkn.-, 

Univemty  Place 

H.rr,  S  HodjU 

Dr.  Pritl. 

Univenily  Place 

C.  E.  Mormn. 

Univ.rr>ily  Arr. 

Univei^ily  Place 

C  L  Carltr. 

F,y-.  Spring 

F.  M.  Bunch. 

F„-.   Sp.;n« 

J.  M.  Kirichrlo^. 

Tk»in..  W    P.c, 

F.r's  Sptinn 

N.  Co.  JarKwi, 

P^arl  Slrc^t 

Lyndliall  Apaitmenls,   University 


An  Electrically  Equipped  Kitchen 


Electric  Kange,  E'ectric  Waffle  Irons,  Electric  Water  Hfaler,  Steam  Table 
Supplying  125  People  Per  Meal 

—rThe  Method  You  Will  Eventually  Use:— 
The  Electric  Way 


Feature  Advertising.    The  following  plans  have  proved  suc- 
cessful and  should  be  used  wherever  possible: 

1 .  Get  ranges  in  special  exhibits 
such  as  bazaars,  carnivals, 
shows  and  similar  places. 

2.  Publish  testimonial  letters  in 
booklets.  This  sort  of  ad- 
vertising convinces  a  class 
who  would  believe  a  third 
party  more  quickly  than 
they  would  a  central  station 
salesman.  Never  publish  a 
customer's  testimonial  how- 
ever without  consent. 

3.  Watch  the  national  women's 
magazines  for  cooking  ar- 
ticles and  purchase  and  mail 
reprints  to  a  special  list. 

4.  Put  on  a  parade  when  the 
first  ranges  arrive  in  town. 
Get  a  brass  band ;  decorate  a 
float  or  two,  particularly  one 
of  a  scene  of  a  woman  being 
freed  from  the  slavery  of  a 
hot,  dirty,  unreliable  fuel 
range.  Get  the  story  in  the 
local  newspapers  and  make 
as  much  fuss  over  the  event 
as  if  the  President  was  com- 
ing to  make  the  town  the 
capital  of  the  United  States. 

5.  Get  a  range  in  every  restaur- 
ant window  possible  and 
induce  the  chef  to  do  his 
cooking  there. 

6.  Put  on  an  electric  cooking 
scenario  contest  with  a  prize 


C.  &  A.  RAILWAY  COMPANY 


Newspaper  advertisement  of  the  Charlottes- 
ville &  Alber marie  Railway  Co.,  Va.  in  which 
they  list  the  names  of  range  owners.  This 
idea  of  referring  the  prospects  to  present 
users  is  considered  good  advertising,  part- 
icularly when  a  new  device  is  placed  on  the 
market.  It  is  unusually  effective  in  electric 
range  advertising. 


PURPOSE  AND  KINDS  163 

offer  of  about  $25.  This  will  get  every  woman  in  the  town  think- 
ing about  the  many  advantages  of  the  electric  range.  Have  the 
best  two  or  three  stories  produced  by  some  film  company  and 
present  them  in  the  picture  theatres  of  the  town  or  territory. 
These  films  should  be  from  400  to  600  feet  long  and  be  run 
once  a  week. 

7.  Another  good  idea  for  mild  or  summer  weather  is  to  install 
a  range  in  a  public  park.  The  Union  Electric  Light  &  Power 
Company  installed  one  in  Forest  Park,  St.  Louis  during  the 
summer.  A  coin-operating  machine  was  attached  to  it  and 
for  five  cents  the  switches  could  be  turned  on  and  the  surface 
units  or  the  oven  could  be  used  for  a  certain  length  of  time. 
It  was  in  constant  use  by  picnic  and  basket  parties  for  heating 
coffee  and  miscellaneous  cookery. 

8.  Distribute  novelties  which  will  attract  women  to  demonstra- 
tions. These  can  be  kitchen  utensils  such  as  biscuit  cutters, 
minute  glasses,  measures,  food  choppers,  can  openers,  bread 
knives,  wooden  spoons  and  similar  small,  useful  articles. 
Such  novelties  can  be  secured  at  surprisingly  low  prices. 

Publicity.  Publicity  is  secured  by  getting  stories  about  electric 
ranges  and  electric  cookery  in  the  local  newspapers  and  publi- 
cations. Get  on  the  good  side  of  the  newspaper  men  of  the 
town  and  sell  them  a  range.  Get  every  restaurant  manager 
who  is  using  an  electric  range  to  mention  his  "Electric 
Cookery''  on  his  menu.  Run  lines  of  advertising  about  the  elec- 
tric range  on  your  monthly  bills,  statements,  letterheads,  envel- 
opes, wrapping  paper,  bags — everything  sent  to  customers. 

Put  on  a  prize  essay  contest  for  children  which  will  be  described 
in  all  the  newspapers.  The  first  prize  can  be  about  $25;  the 
second  best  $15  and  the  third  $5.  This  will  get  all  the  children 
in  the  town  thinking  and  talking  about  electric  cookery  and 
asking  their  mothers  and  fathers  why  it  is  better  than  any  other 
method.    This  is  very  good  publicity. 


Planning  the  Campaign 

Primary  Factors.  The  size  and  cost  of  an  advertising  campaign 
and  the  selection  of  the  mediums  to  be  used  must  be  determined 
from  the  size  of  the  town  or  territory;  and  to  what  extent  and 
how  rapidly  the  central  station  desires  to  build  a  range  load. 

First,  the  campaign  should  be  laid  out  in  two  parts.  Part  One 
should  be  a  prospectus  which  will  include: 

1.  An  analysis  of  the  town  as  a  market  for  electric  ranges. 

2.  Fundamental  plans  for  the  introduction  of  electric  cookery. 

3.  Complete  description  of  the  sales  policies  adopted. 

4.  Synopsis  of  the  advertising,  time  of  the  insertions  and  loca- 
tions of  the  billboards  and  similar  mediums. 

5.  Cost  of  the  general  publicity  and  the  educational  and  direct 
sales  work. 

6.  Sales  results  which  are  expected  during  the  campaign. 

Part  Two  is  the  active  part  of  the  campaign  which  consists 
of  the  copy  and  layouts  for  all  the  advertisements  and  other  sales 
activity.  It  should  also  include  the  programs  of  the  demonstra- 
tions, outlines  of  the  different  sales  talks,  the  complete  set  of 
sales  letters  and  the  designs  for  the  window  displays. 

Practically  all  copy  should  be  written  and  laid  out  before  the 
campaign  actually  begins.  After  the  first  activities  are  under 
way,  everyone  is  so  busy  that  little  time  will  be  found  to  do 
much  planning  and  writing  of  additional  advertising.  If  possible, 
it  is  a  good  plan  to  secure  the  assistance  of  an  advertising  agency 
or  an  experienced  advertising  man. 

Appropriation.  There  are  two  ways  of  determining  an  adver- 
tising appropriation.  The  first  is  to  take  a  certain  percentage  of 
last  year's  gross  or  net  sales.  The  second  is  to  appropriate  a 
sufficient  amount  to  adequately  finance  the  campaign,  this 
amount  being  based  on  the  anticipated  returns. 

164 


r  PLANNING  THE  CAMPAIGN  165 

Percentages  on  which  advertising  is  based  vary  widely — from 
1^%  to  50%  of  gross  sales — depending  on  sales  policies  and  sim- 
lar  factors.  Thus  it  is  impossible  to  give  any  standard  percentage 
or  definite  foundation  upon  which  to  base  figures.  Each  sales 
manager  must  determine  his  own  percentage,  based  on  his  own 
business  judgment. 

One  thought  must  be  kept  in  mind:  That  a  great  part  of  the 
range  advertising  must  be  educational.  During  the  first  year,  a 
higher  percentage  of  expenditure  must  be  allowed  in  proportion 
to  the  sales  than  during  the  second  year  when  the  central 
station  will  begin  to  reap  the  benefit  of  the  money  it  is  obliged 
to  spend  in  the  beginning. 

One  method  of  figuring  an  electric  range  appropriation  is 
offered  however:  Generously  estimate  the  possible  purchasers 
who  through  financial  ability  should  own  an  electric  range  at 
the  end  of  the  twelve  months  after  the  campaign  is  begun.  Figure 
the  necessary  selling  prices  of  a  popular  type  of  range  and  then 
compute  at  least  10%  for  advertising.  Multiply  the  computed 
amount  by  the  number  of  ranges  estimated  as  possible  to  sell 
during  the  twelve  months  and  the  result  will  be  a  reasonable 
appropriation.  If  the  town  is  unusually  prosperous  or  if  the  pos- 
sible customers  are  of  a  very  select  class,  this  percentage  may 
easily  be  increased  to  13%,  15%  or  even  higher.  The  customer 
really  pays  for  this  advertising  and  in  determining  the  percentage, 
it  is  simply  a  matter  of  estimating  how  much  the  sale  will  stand. 

The  range  prospects  for  the  year  may  be  divided  into  three 
classes:  Those  who  may  buy  immediately,  those  who  may  pur- 
chase a  range  within  a  few  months  and  those  who  may  not  buy 
until  electric  cookery  has  been  advertised  to  them  for  a  longer 
period.  Thus  the  appropriation  must  be  applied  at  least  two 
ways:    To  direct  educational  work  and  to  continuous  publicity. 


166  ADVERTISING 


At  least  70%  of  the  appropriation  should  be  apportioned  to  the 
development  of  direct  sales  and  the  remainder  to  continuous 
advertising — day-in-and-day-out  publicity. 

Mediums.    The  advertising  mediums  should  be  of  three  kinds: 

1.  Educational  advertising   mediums  such  as: 

Booklets,  private  and  public  demonstrations,  electrical  shows, 
county  fairs  and  such  opportunities  as  loaning  ranges  to 
church  affairs,  bazaars,  and  similar  places  where  women 
gather  for  entertainment  yet  where  it  is  possible  to  present 
a  lecture  and  a  demonstration  on  electric  cookery,  and  dis- 
tribute advertising  booklets. 

2.  Direct-result  advertising  mediums  such  as: 
Newspapers,  window  displays,  lantern  slides  and  special  sales 
where  some  present  such  as  a  clover-leaf  cooking  set  is  given 
away  with  every  range  sold  during  a  specified  period. 

3.  General  publicity  mediums  such  as:  Billboards,  electric  signs, 
metal  signs,  sides  of  delivery  trucks  and  the  backs  of  light 
bills,  statements,  letter  heads  and  similar  places. 

Before  selecting  mediums,  determine  just  where  the  sales  effort 
is  to  be  focused — step  by  step.  For  example:  In  the  beginning, 
the  best  plan  is  to  sell  ranges  to  all  the  electrical  men  of  the  town, 
also  all  the  managers  and  chefs  of  restaurants,  clubs,  hotels, 
hospitals  and  other  institutions.  Thus  the  first  expenditures 
would  be  for  "electric"  dinners  and  illustrated  lectures  to 
these  men.    Read  Securing  their  Interest  on  page  113. 

Before  placing  the  entire  campaign,  it  is  well  to  test  the  "pulling 
power"  of  the  various  mediums  which  are  being  contemplated 
to  determine  which  are  most  efficient.  For  a  description  of 
"keying"  and  advertisement  which  will  help  in  such  work,  see 
page  169.  Ofttimes  it  is  found  that  one  medium  is  far  more 
effective  for  range  advertising  than  a  more  costly  one  and  it  is 
advisable  to  experiment  before  spending  much  money. 


Preparation  of  Copy 

Fundamentals.  The  purpose  of  a  range  advertisement  is  to 
create  consumer  interest — not  consumer  demand.  It  takes  a  sales- 
man to  actually  consummate  the  sale.  The  advertisement  only 
informs,  educates  and  develops  the  public's  mind  to  the  point 
where  an  interest  is  aroused  and  a  form  of  acceptance  produced. 

Advertisements  should  be  Qonsidered  as  a  series  of  lessons — 
as  links  in  a  chain.  One  lesson,  one  link  or  one  advertisement 
is  just  one  step;  and  it  is  the  succession  of  these  steps  that  is 
cumulative  and  profitable. 

There  are  certain  fundamental  thoughts  to  bear  in  mind  in 
the  preparation  of  copy.  The  advertisement  must  do  four 
things : 

1.  Attract  attention- — through  a  distinctive  display  which  is  se- 
cured with  (1)  a  striking  illustration;  (2)  little  copy;  (3) 
plainly  readable  type  of  good  size;  (4)  liberal  white  space, 
throughout  the  ad  between  matter  and  border. 

2.  Create  interest — with  facts — not  generalities;  written  from  the 
customer's  viewpoint — not  the  copy- writer's ;  use  actual 
news  photographs  (or  faithful  drawings)  of  installations  and 
demonstrations  to  make  illustrations — not  unnatural  draw- 
ings of  odd  looking  ranges. 

3.  Develop  desire — by  describing  the  advantages  of  electric  cook- 
ery— not  the  range;  the  service  and  economy — not  the  price 
nor  cost  of  operation;  what  the  range  will  do  for  the  reader 
— ^not  what  it  did  for  someone  else. 

4.  Instill  action — by  the  offer  of  some  special  inducement  for  at- 
tending a  lecture  or  demonstration,  by  a  coupon  in  the  corner 
of  the  advertisement  which,  //  returned  within  a  limited  time, 
is  good  for  some  "special"  booklet  or  folder.  Use  a  stimulous 
to  get  replies.  The  majority  of  people  are  indifferent  to 
commonplace  announcements  (ads)  and  without  some  incen- 
tive to  prompt  action  or  decision  they  may  momentarily  con- 
sider your  ad  but  are  very  apt  to  delay  and  forget. 

167 


168  ADVERTISING 


Always  be  definite  with  interesting  facts  and  details — never 
meaningless  generalities,  bombastic  statements  or  startling 
claims  beyond  the  conception  of  the  reader.  Don't  be  technical. 
Base  each  piece  of  copy  on  one  idea — have  but  one  principal 
thought.  It  is  difficult  enough  to  make  people  read  and  under- 
stand one  fact  or  statement.  Be  direct,  clear,  simple  and  con- 
cise. Avoid  irrelevant,  clever  remarks  and  illogical  humor. 
People  do  not  read  advertising  to  he  amused.  Buying — learning 
about  electric  ranges — is  a  serious  rnatter.  Be  absolutely  sincere. 
Be  modest  in  claims.  Confidence  must  be  inspired  because  it  is 
the  winning  factor  in  every  sale. 

Direct  your  thought  toward  a  composite  woman  and  contin- 
ually keep  her  in  mind.  Appeal  to  her  reason  for  economy's 
sake,  to  her  pride  of  being  up-to-date,  to  her  leisure  in  adding 
hours  to  every  day.  Avoid  adjectives.  Make  the  copy  just  as 
short  as  possible.  The  shorter  the  better.  Bear  in  mind  that 
the  United  States  is  a  nation  of  headline  readers.  Few  people — 
unless  they  are  intensely  and  unusually  interested — read  long 
advertisements. 

Copy.  Advertising  copy  is  merely  a  sales  talk  on  paper.  Sales 
reasoning  is  identical  in  both  printed  advertising  and  sales  con- 
versation. The  advertisement  finds  the  eye  and  interest  of  thou- 
sands of  uninterested  persons  where  a  sales  talk  is  poured  into  the 
ear  of  one  interested  person.  The  purpose  of  an  advertisement  is 
to  create  interest  and  develop  a  desire  for  further  information. 
The  purpose  of  a  sales  talk  is  to  round  out  the  knowledge  of  a 
prospect  and  influence  her  to  purchase.  Thus  the  advertisement 
is  step  one  and  the  sales  talk  step  two — in  making  a  sale. 

The  salesman  presents  the  advantages  of  his  goods,  asks  and 
answers  questions;  the  advertisement  not  only  presents  the  talk 
but  anticipates  the  questions  and  answers.    It  also  stimulates 


II 


PREPARATION  OF  COPY  169 


the  desire  for  additional  information.  Therefore  a  coupon 
attached  to  the  corner  of  the  advertisement  is  one  good  way  to 
get  direct,  quick  returns  from  an  ad.  Such  a  coupon  is  also 
used  for  ''keying''  the  advertisement — learning  what  newspapers 
and  what  issues  of  these  advertising  mediums  have  the  best  pull- 
ing power.  Some  times  Sunday  papers  are  better  than  week  day 
issues.  Sometimes  a  Saturday  night  issue  brings  in  a  larger  num- 
ber of  inquirers  than  a  Wednesday  morning  paper.  So  ''keying'* 
an  advertisement  is  the  only  way  to  find  out  what  papers  and 
what  issues  of  these  papers  give  the  best  returns.  "Keying"  is 
done  by  placing  a  number  or  letter  in  small  type  in  the  corner 
of  the  coupon — this  "key"  denoting  the  paper  used  and  the  date 
inserted. 

In  writing  copy  do  it  sincerely  in  a  "come-on"  spirit  of  wel- 
come. Make  it  an  honest  "write-for-complete-information"  in- 
vitation. The  whole  story  cannot  be  told  in  one  advertisement. 
So  the  reader  must  send  for  a  booklet  and  folder.  Bear  in  mind 
to  describe: 

The  "kitchen"  principles  of 

electric  cookery  —  NOT  the  range  itself. 

Simplicity  of  operation  —  NOT  strong  construction 

Cleanliness  —  NOT  white  enamel  splashers 

General  economy  —  NOT  the  low  rate 

Saving  in  work  — NOT  the  "moderate  cost  of  pur- 

chase" 
Saving  in  food  —  NOT  the  monthly  consumption  of 

current 
Newer,  better  ways  — NOT  just  "matchless"  cookery 

What  it  does  for  you  — NOT  "thousands  sold  in  Amer- 

ica" 
Easy  payment  plan  —  NOT  the  guarantee 

The  copy  should  if  possible,  be  connected  with  some  local  in- 
terest, some  local  activity,  such  as  a  Red  Cross  campaign,  elec- 


(bold  Htad. 


&g'aii*fara»oMWi^iMpe?»«ojs»cpf  <ttn»oi^  k!IJS>* 


Illustration   of  a   rough  layout  of  an   advertisement  showing  just   what  is 

required,  with  the  typewritten  copy,  by  a  printer  or  newspaper  compositor 

before  setting  up  an  advertisement .    If  the  advertising  man  does  not  know 

type  sizes  he  may  leave  these  instructions  to  the  printer. 


trical  show,  church 
bazaar,  home  furnish- 
ing exhibit,  carnival, 
food  and  fuel  conser- 
vation drive  or  some 
similar  movement. 
Layout.  When  giving 
copy  to  a  newspaper 
or  printer  to  be  set 
up,  furnish  a  layout 
so  he  may  know  ap- 
proximately what 
style  and  set-up  is 
wanted. 

As  to  typographical 
arrangement  the 
printer  usually  knows 
what  looks  well  typo- 
graphically ;  but  he 
doesn't  always  know, 
cannot  possibly  know, 
the  idea  in  the  adver- 
tisers mind,  how  it 
should  be  set  in  [type 
and  arranged  to  con- 
vey that  idea  in  print- 
ed form  to  the  mind 
of  the  reader,  in  the 
way  the  advertiser  in- 
tended. Therefore, 
illustrations  of  the 
advertiser's  selling 
ideas  should  be  given 


Accept  Our  45=Day  Guarantee 

Lcam  Why  Electric  Cooking  Rules  in  Thousands  of  Homes 


Our  object  is  not  to  make  money 
on  electric  ranges. 

What  we  propose  \i  to  sell  you 
the  fuel— electric  current — when 
you  have  bought  a  range. 

If  you  purchase  the  range  from 
us,  we  will  install  the  necessary 
wiring,  etc.,  at  our  own  expense. 

You  need  pay  only  a  tenth  of 
the  price  of  the  range  at  the  time 
of  purchase.  Then  cook  all  your 
meals  on  it  45  days. 

If  you  keep  the  range  after  that, 
pay  the  balance  monthly  for  11 
months.  But  if  your  range  does 
not  do  what  we  claim,  we  wi^l  re- 
move it  and  refund  all  money  you 
have  paid  (except  for  electric 
current  used). 

We  are  willing  to  make  this 
guarantee  because  we  know  that 
women  who  cook  this  way  cannot 
be  induced  to  return  to  inferior 
methods. 

In  Small  Homes  and 
Mansions 

Electric  cooking  is  favored  by 
thousands  of  women  in  3,500  com- 
munities in  the  United  States. 

Here  in  St.  Louis  where  the  rat« 
ip  only  3  cents  per  kilowatt  hour, 
the  advantage  of  the  electric  way 
is  tremendous. 

And  in  hundreds  of  St.  Louis 
homes — from  cottages  to  magnifi- 
cent residences,  all  food  is  prepared 
on  electric  ranges. 

Families  in  small  homes  and 
mansions  sit  down  to  meals  cooked 


as  nutritiously  and   palatably  as 
those  set  before  kings. 

Even  the  inexpensive  cuts  of 
meat  will  come  out  juicy,  tender 
and  delicious. 

For  electric  cooking  retains  all 
savors  and  flavors.  The  fiber  is 
thoroughly  cooked  —  toughness 
disappears,  and  you  serve  new 
delights  at  very  low  cost. 
Spotless  Kitchen 
— Smokeless  House 

"I  find  electricity  very  much 
definer,"  writes  one  St.  Louis 
housewife  (name  on  request), 
"not  only  in  the  kitchen  but 
throughout  the  house.  It  doe? 
away  with  fumes  and  the  smoke 
created  by  the  burning  of  grease 
in  contact  with  a  blaze." 

Be  free  of  the  drudgery  of  scour- 
ing pots  and  pans  —  jeep  your 
kitchen  cool  and  comfortable, 
with  spotless  ceilings  and  walls. 

Save  many  hours  a  month — save 
food  —  save  work  and  health  and 
money. 

All  these  advantages  come  wtth 
electric  cooking. 

Each  week  we  are  installing 
many  electric  ranges. 

Now  many  more  women  will 
want  them  on  our  45-day  guar- 
antee. 

So  don't  put  off.  That  might 
delay  installation.  Write,  call  or 
telephone  for  full  information  to- 
day. 


Electric  Ranges  are  Inexpensive    to    Operate 


Electricity  Is  Cheat)  in  St.  Louis 

The  Electric  Company 

Union  Electric:  Main  Office,  12th  and  Locust 
Branches:  4912  Delniar:  3028  N  Grand:  3012  S.  Grand 
SIX       OFFICES        IN       THE       COUWTY 


This  is  the  finished  advertisement  which  was 
laid-out  on  the  opposite  page. 


172  ADVERTISING 


the  printer  in  the  way  of  layout  which  will  show  the  exact  order 
of  display  wanted  to  tell  the  story  in  type  as  it  has  been  care- 
fully planned  in  the  mind  of  the  advertiser. 

White  space  is  one  of  the  most  valued  adjuncts  of  advertising. 
Plenty  of  freedom  should  appear  in  the  general  set  up  of  the 
type.  Especially  should  there  be  a  liberal  space  between  the 
body  of  the  ad  (the  text  matter)  and  the  border. 

Not  many  central  station  managers  are  so  conversant  with 
type  faces  that  they  can  designate  different  styles  by  name.  But 
every  manager  knows  the  thought  he  intends  to  convey;  and  he 
further  knows  (by  his  familiarity  with  the  newspapers)  just  how 
he  would  like  to  have  his  thoughts  set  up  in  type.  He  can  clip 
from  his  daily  paper  just  those  type  faces  that  he  wants  used  at 
certain  places.  The  technical  names  need  not  concern  him — ^the 
printer  will  get  his  ideas  just  as  well. 


IN  ALL  advertising  copy,  demonstrations 
and  sales  conversation,  avoid  any  refer- 
ence to:  Lightning,  electric  shock  and 
live  wires.  Artists  delight  in  drawing  range 
advertisement  borders,  illustrations  and 
decorative  effects  filled  with  flashes  of  light- 
ning— just  the  thing  which  should  be 
omitted!  Censor  all  advertisements  care- 
fully, for  such  things  create  harmful 
impressions. 


CHAPTER  IX 

SERVICE  AND  MAINTENANCE 

Electric  Cooking  Service 

Real  Service.  There  are  four  divisions  or  stages  to  this  service: 
Buying  Service — helping  the  woman  select  a  suitable  range  and 
educating  her  in  its  operation;  Installation  Service — getting  the 
range  quickly  and  satisfactorily  installed;  Current  Service — the 
continuity  of  the  supply  of  electricity  24  hours  a  day;  Main- 
tenance Service — in  quickly  making  repairs  that  may  be 
necessary. 

Fundamentally  the  object  is  to  keep  the  customer  satisfied — 
with  Service,  The  attitude  must  be  assumed  that  she  is  always 
right;  she  can  have  anything  within  reason;  the  central  station  is 
her  servant.  So  never  displease;  never  argue;  never  make  prom- 
ises which  cannot  be  fulfilled.    That  is  Service! 

Selling  a  range  is  about  10  percent  salesmanship  and  90  percent 
Service.  A  range  must  be  properly  installed,  must  receive  the 
proper  voltage,  must  be  watched  carefully  for  several  weeks. 
There  are  a  number  of  little  things  which  might  go  wrong  on  a 
new  electric  range  and  it  is  the  duty  of  the  central  station  to 
voluntary  learn  of,  and  repair,  these  deficiencies.  For  example: 
A  connection  under  a  surface  unit  might  become  loose  which 
would  prevent  it  from  developing  maximum  heat.  Probably  the 
annoyance  might  be  so  slight  the  user  might  not  make  a  formal 
complaint  but  would  be  greatly  dissatisfied  with  the  service. 

Watch  each  installation  as  though  it  meant  the  sale  of  100 
ranges,  because  during  the  first  year  of  the  campaign  the  central 

173 


174  SERVICE  AND  MAINTENANCE 

station  will  find  that  many  of  its  prospects  have  called  up  range 
owners  and  asked  them  all  about  their  new  cooking  device.  Any 
slight  defect  in  service  might  influence  the  user  to  intimate  that 
the  range  was  not  all  that  she  had  anticipated.  And  such  a 
suggestion  would  not  only  injure  one  or  many  sales  but  also 
make  the  inquirers  talk  disparagingly  and  spread  adverse  ideas. 
So  a  range  installation  cannot  be  given  too  much  care  and  atten- 
tion. It  is  better  to  have  five  ranges  giving  satisfactory  service 
than  fifty  ranges  giving  poor  service. 

Handling  Complaints.  A  complaint  should  be  investigated 
within  an  hour  after  it  is  made.  Specialists  should  be  employed 
on  this  kind  of  work  rather  than  regular  repair  men  who  do  not 
thoroughly  understand  it.  There  are  so  many  things  they  should 
know  and  so  many  little  **stunts"  in  making  range  repairs,  that 
one  or  two  specialists  are  better  than  five  or  six  general  repair 
men.  Before  repairing  ranges,  these  specialists  should  be  in- 
structed in  the  construction  and  operation  of  the  range  by  a 
competent  manufacturer's  salesman. 

A  customer  should  not  be  charged  for  repairs  unless  it  is  some 
damage  due  to  direct  carelessness,  for  which  the  manufacturer 
or  central  station  is  not  responsible.  In  making  replacements 
always  give  the  customer  the  benefit  of  the  doubt.  Small  mech- 
anical or  electrical  repairs  are  generally  so  trivial  in  cost  that  it 
is  better  to  do  the  work  gratis  rather  than  irritate  the  customer 
with  a  small  bill.  After  a  complaint  has  been  adjusted,  a  pleasant- 
voiced  woman  should  call  up  and  ask  if  everything  is  satisfac- 
tory. This  promotes  good-will  and  shows  that  the  central 
station  is  sincerely  interested  in  pleasing  the  customer. 

Pointers  for  Service  Men.  In  a  case  of  range  trouble  the 
first  thing  to  do  is  to  learn  the  size  and  style  of  the  range.    Take  one 


II 


ELECTRIC  COOKING  SERVICE  175 

surface  and  one  oven  unit  in  case  of  a  bum-out.  Question  the 
housewife  about  what  happened — what  she  was  doing  when  the 
trouble  occurred.  Test  fuses,  examine  all  connections,  go  over 
the  switches.  The  trouble  may  be  found  in  a  loose  connection,  a 
melted  fuse  or  a  burned-out  element.  If  a  short  circuit  has 
occurred  do  not  put  in  another  fuse  until  you  are  sure  that  the 
trouble  has  been  repaired.  This  can  easily  be  determined  by 
putting  in  110-volt  lamp  on  each  side  of  the  circuit  in  the  fuse 
plug  sockets. 

Educating  the  New  User 

Home  Demonstrations.  The  home  demonstration  is  the  sec- 
ond phase  of  central  station  service.  Its  importance  is  obvious. 
If  the  user  lacks  a  thorough  knowledge  of  the  operation,  the 
electric  range  will  mean  no  more  to  her  than  the  old  fuel  stove. 
She  will  not  be  satisfied.  Disparaging  talk  will  be  disseminated. 
Electric  cookery  can  be  inexpensive  or  expensive,  superior  or 
inferior — depending  on  the  knowledge  and  care  of  the  operator. 
The  heat  qualities,  the  operation,  the  control  and  results  are  dif- 
ferent from  fuel  cookery.  So  the  demonstrator  should  call  im- 
mediately after  the  service  has  been  turned  on;  and,  in  addition 
to  other  work,  assist  in  the  preparation  of  the  first  meal. 

Three  demonstrations  have  been  found  to  be  most  effective. 
The  first  should  show  the  fundamentals  of  electric  range  service : 

How  to  read  the  meter 

Method  of  figuring  bill 

Why  fuses  melt 

Correct  insertion  of  fuses 

Employing  regular  electricians  for  repair  work 

Operation  of  main- line  switch 

How  to  utilize  conserved  heat 

Necessity  of  cleaning  utensils  before  using  new  range 

Advantages  of  duplex  or  clover-leaf  utensils 


176  SERVICE  AND  MAINTENANCE 

This  demonstration  should  cover  an  explanation  of  the  prin- 
ciples and  construction  of  the  range;  difference  between  fuel  and 
electric  cookery  and  (as  mentioned  before)  preparation  of  the 
first  meal. 

The  second  demonstration  includes  the  description  and  use  of 
the  oven  for  baking.  Third  demonstration  includes  boiling, 
broiling,  roasting,  toasting  and  other  cooking  processes.  These 
three  demonstrations  could  be  given  at  one  time  but  three  are 
suggested  so  the  demonstrator  will  have  the  opportunity  to 
make  two  additional  calls  which  will  enable  her  to  see  that  the 
range  is  working  properly,  if  the  purchaser  likes  it  and  also 
answer  any  questions  which  might  have  come  up  during  the 
first  few  days. 

The  demonstrator  must  cultivate  the  housewife.  Win  her 
friendliness.  Be  kind,  sympathetic!  Always  agree  with  her. 
Don't  criticise  the  kitchen  or  the  home.  Women  are  sensitive. 
Confine  talk  and  work  to  the  range  and  the  cooking.  In  com- 
bating such  practices  as  covering  vegetables  with  water  and  the 
continuous  basting,  watching  and  stirring  of  food,  be  diplomatic 
and  suggest  rather  than  command.  Women  do  not  like  to  be 
told  how  to  cook'  But  they  can  be  told  how  to  use  their  new  range. 
Demonstrate  every  point.    Bare  description  is  inadequate. 

Care  should  be  taken  not  to  overheat  the  oven,  as  it  is  built 
on  the  fireless  cooker  principle  and  the  heat  is  cumulative.  Over- 
heating may  injure  the  oven  lining  and  will  also  be  too  hot  for 
proper  baking  and  roasting. 

The  Oven.  Once  every  month  the  oven  should  be  treated  with 
olive  oil  or  a  similar  substance  to  keep  it  sweet,  clean  and  free 
from  rust.  When  boiling  vegetables  or  roasting  meats,  just 
sufficient  water  to  cover  the  bottom  of  the  pan  should  be  used. 
Thus  the  food  is  cooked  by  the  steam  and  the  nutriment  re- 


EDUCATING  THE  NEW  USER  177 

tained — not  boiled  into  the  water  to  be  drained  away.  See 
Better  Cooked  Foody  page  135. 

Advise  the  complete  utilization  of  the  oven  heat.  Suggest  that 
a  pan  of  apples  can  be  placed  in  the  oven  after  the  other  cookery 
is  finished  and  baked  on  the  stored  heat. 

Surface  Units.  When  boiling,  the  current  should  be  turned 
from  ''Fuir'  to  *'Low''  heat  as  soon  as  the  water  reaches  the 
boiling  point.  The  "Low"  heat  will  maintain  a  sufficient  tem- 
perature and  reduce  current  consumption  75%.  When  cooking 
several  vegetables  on  the  top  of  the  range,  the  best  plan  is  to 
start  the  different  pans  on  one  surface  unit  which  is  kept  at  full 
heat.  As  foods  reach  the  boiling  point  they  should  be  transferred 
to  other  units  which  are  turned  to  "Low'*  heat.  Thus  the  tem- 
perature is  maintained  and  a  great  deal  of  current  is  saved 
through  not  having  to  bring  these  several  separate  units  to  their 
"Fuir'  heat. 

Another  current  conservation  plan  is  to  heat  water  for  dishes 
by  the  stored  heat  of  the  surface  units.  Generally  the  water  is 
sufficiently  heated  when  the  meal  is  finished.  Don't  fail  to 
demonstrate  these  points. 

Surface  units  are  not  harmed  by  liquids  boiling  over  on  them. 
Heavy  substances  like  molasses  carbonize  and  can  be  removed 
with  a  light,  non-metallic  brush.  Everything  else  including  dis- 
colorations  will  be  burned  away  by  the  intense  heat.  Enclosed- 
type  surface  units  are  of  course  merely  wiped  off. 
Other  Appliances.  At  the  time  of  the  final  visit,  the  demon- 
strator should  learn  whether  the  housewife  is  interested  in  other 
domestic  labor-saving  devices.  If  so,  literature  should  be  sent 
and  a  sales  letter  describing  the  trial  installation  plan  and  the 
installment  payment  policy.  Many  appliances  are  sold  in  this 
way. 


CHAPTER  X 

ELECTRIC  WATER  HEATERS 

This  chapter  on  electric  water  heating  has 
been  adapted  from  a  recent  report  of  the  Engi- 
neering and  Sales  Department  of  one  of  the 
large  electric  range  and  water  heater  manu- 
facturers. It  is  considered  a  complete  and 
comprehensive  analysis  of  the  subject. 

Water  Heating 

Load.  One  of  the  first  questions  which  is  invariably  asked  by 
the  prospective  range  purchaser  is  **How  shall  I  heat  my  water?'* 
Many  central  stations  which  are  aggressively  merchandising 
electric  ranges  have  believed  that  water  heating  is  not  necessarily 
involved  in  a  range  sale.  They  have  become  accustomed  to  telling 
the  prospect  that  for  a  few  dollars  a  coal  or  gas  water  heater 
can  be  installed  which  will  give  entirely  satisfactory  service. 

The  central  station  which  is  handling  its  range  work  on  this 
basis  is  displacing  coal  and  gas  ranges  and  is  thereby  multiplying 
three-fold  its  revenue  from  residence  customers.  But  it  is  neg- 
lecting an  additional  three-fold  revenue  by  avoiding  a  water 
heater  installation  which  can  be  made  without  additional  capital 
investment  and  which  is  thereby  more  valuable  in  connection 
with  the  range  load  than  the  range  load  itself.  Like  the  range, 
the  water  heater  does  not  make  the  customer  pay  out  additional 
money  for  water  heating.  It  is  mainly  a  case  of  paying  the  central 
station  instead  of  buying  fuel. 

Another  reason  why  any  central  station  which  is  now  exploiting 
electric  ranges  should  take  up  water  heating  lies  in  the  fact  that 

178 


•I 


WATER  HEATING 


179 


many  kitchens  where  an  electric 
range  is  installed  a  gas  or  coal 
stove  is  retained  for  water  heat- 
ing purposes.  The  presence  of 
these  stoves  in  the  kitchen  leads 
to  their  frequent  use  especially 
in  the  Winter  with  the  result 
that  the  full  revenue  is  not  de- 
rived from  the  electric  range. 
Without  a  doubt  the  time  has 
come  when  the  central  station 
should  strive  for  the  All-Electric 
Kitchen, 

Storage  System.  Both  from 
the  standpoint  of  the  central 
station  and  the  householder, 
electric  water  heating  may  be 
classified  under  two  systems: 
The  Storage  System  and  the  In- 
termittent System.  The  Storage 
System  maintains  an  available 
supply  of  hot  water  and  it  rep- 
resents a  continuous  load  for 
central  station.  The  Intermit- 
tent System  requires  that  the 
heater  be  turned  on  whenever 
hot  water  is  wanted. 

The  Storage  System  involves 
the  use  of  a  heater  and  tank  of 
sufficient  capacity  to  give  the 
required  amount  of  water  during 


COLO  WATER 


SBRVICE 
COC/f 


HOT  IV ATE R 
^OUTLET 

fCE  COCK 


SERVICE  COCK 
CAN  BE  USED  POR 
PESTRfCTfNC 
C/RCOLAVOH 


Outside'Circulation     type 
water  heater. 


electric 


180  ELECTRIC  WATER  HEATERS 

the  entire  24  hours,  as  the  heater  usually  operates  during  this 
entire  period.  Do  not  use  a  tank  smaller  than  30  gallons  for  a 
600  watt  heater.  The  size  of  the  tank  should  be  increased  for 
storage  heaters  of  higher  wattage. 

The  electric  energy  is  required  to  heat  the  water  and  also  to 
supply  the  radiation  losses  while  the  water  is  being  stored — but 
not  used.  The  kilowatt  demand  for  a  storage  water  heater  is 
quite  low — in  actual  practice  600  to  1,000  watts.  In  such  case  a 
the  connected  load  and  the  maximum  demand  are  the  same;  and, 
being  always  in  use,  they  provide  the  highest  load  factor,  namely, 
100%. 

This  attractive  load  enables  the  central  station  to  sell  current 
profitably  at  a  low  rate  per  kilowatt  hour  which  makes  a  reason- 
able charge  per  month  to  the  consumer.  The  low  maximum 
demand  means  low  transformer  and  copper  costs.  Because  the 
water  is  always  hot  and  ready  for  instant  use,  the  consumer  gets 
the  best  possible  service. 

The  Storage  System  is  especially  desirable  in  the  northern  part 
of  the  United  States.  People  living  in  cold  climates  require  more 
hot  water  than  the  people  in  warm  climates;  hence  the  central  sta- 
tion in  order  to  get  water  heating  business  must  find  some  means 
of  making  sales  so  that  the  monthly  bill  will  not  be  excessive. 

From  the  standpoint  of  conservation,  the  thermostatic  control 
is  ideal  for  the  Storage  System.  It  always  provides  plenty  of 
hot  water  but  prevents  any  waste  of  the  electric  current  if 
the  hot  water  is  not  used.  The  thermostat  is  interesting  to  the 
central  station  salesman  who  is  unable  to  closely  estimate  the 
amount  of  hot  water  required.  Without  the  thermostat,  the 
quantity  of  hot  water  is  fixed  by  the  wattage  selected.  If  it  is 
too  high,  there  is  a  waste  and  if  it  is  too  low  the  family  will  com- 
plain of  insufficient  supply. 


WATER  HEATING 

181 

= 

f^ 

p 

r^ 

iK 



h" 

re 

IP 

'fit 

TU 

^ 

"f 

^ 

^ 

Uf\ffE^Tfi'C7€D 

_^ 

^ 

k 

/ 

/ 

C/^cl/lJ  r/i'A^J^ 

-n 

, 

/ 

/ 

-^ 

" 

\ 

^ 

ly"*' 

/ 

' 

jjtfif^l^ 

^ 

"* 

^ 

'^ 

?:  „, 

/ 

fj/' 

\t^ 

roj3 

^ 

-^ 

"^ 

^"" 

fl 

^ 

i. 

c 

-r. 

^ 

A 

m 

/?/< 

r£ 

0  J 

^ 

,ff 

r^-^ 

-;,.^5p 

1" 

CI 

9Ci 

Z-^ 

7^ 

y 

\ 

'' 

1/' 

ej 

V 

^ 

^ 

" 

N 

(>l 

^\ 

k 

"^ 

'J' 

^ 

" 

\ 

^ 

' 

^ 

i> 

y' 

\ 

^ 

"^ 

/ 

^ 

^ 

^ 

S^ 

^ 

^ 

k  *0 

It 

^ 

^ 

^ 

^SO 

. 

^^ 

^«. 

^ 

> 

T/AfC  /Af    HOUf?^ 


Curve  showing  how  hot  water  accumulates  at  the  top  of  a  storage  tank 
when  an  outside-circulation   type  water  heater  is  used. 

With  the  thermostatic  arrangement,  a  wattage  is  selected 
which  will  be  amply  high  and  which  the  thermostat  will  automati- 
cally cut  off  from  time  to  time  depending  on  the  quantity  of  hot 
water  used.  In  this  way,  the  current  is  automatically  adjusted 
to  the  requirements  of  the  home.  Cutting  down  the  waste  current 
will  usually  mean  a  saving  in  the  cost  of  current,  at  the  same  time 
satisfactory  service  is  insured. 

When  the  water  heater  and  range  are  installed  the  maximum 
demand  is  usually  reduced  by  the  thermostatic  control,  because 
the  water  is  hot  and  the  current  off  when  the  cooking  is  being 
done.  For  example:  In  the  morning  when  the  range  is  started 
for  breakfast,  the  thermostat  has  cut  off  the  water  heating 
current,  as  the  tank  has  accumulated  sufficient  hot  water  during 
the  night  and  is  full.     The  washing  of  breakfast    dishes  will 


182  ELECTRIC  WATER  HEATERS 

consume  enough  hot  water  to  cause  the  current  to  be  turned  on 
again,  but  by  this  time  the  cooking  is  finished. 

If  no  hot  water  is  used  during  the  day  or  night,  the  tank  will 
automatically  shut  itself  off  when  it  becomes  full  instead  of  accu- 
mulating steam  which  would  back  up  in  the  water  pipes  and  waste 
a  considerable  amount  of  current.  If  the  central  station  is  selling 
current  for  water  heating  on  a  flat  rate,  the  thermostat  saves 
coal  in  the  power  house — or  water  power,  as  the  case  may  be — 
yet  the  customer  will  pay  as  much  for  a  thermostatically  con- 
trolled heating  system  per  month  as  for  the  simple  Storage  System,  ■ 
and  the  central  station  will  reap  the  saving  effected.  On  the 
other  hand  if  the  customer  is  being  charged  by  a  kilowatt  hour  _ 
rate,  the  bill  will  be  much  smaller.  f 

Intermittent  System.  Water  heaters  for  the  Intermittent 
System  are  usually  of  2  to  5  kilowatts'  capacity.  Compared 
with  a  steady  demand  of  a  storage  heater  of  600  to  1,000  watt 
capacity,  the  Intermittent  Heater  does  not  provide  as  good  a 
load  factor.  The  maximum  demand  for  which  a  central  station 
must  provide  and  therefore  accordingly  charge,  depends  on  the 
idiosyncrasies  of  the  consumer.  The  customer  gets  the  hot 
water  service  they  desire  and  should  be  willing  to  pay  for  it. 
It  is  likely  however,  that  the  diversity  factor  of  a  large  number 
of  water  heaters  because  of  short  and  irregular  use  would  be  high. 

From  the  customer's  standpoint  it  is  evident  that  the  service 
is  not  so  good.  He  always  has  to  plan  ahead  of  time  to  provide 
himself  with  hot  water,  and  the  length  of  time  he  has  to  wait 
depends  on  the  size  of  the  heater.  It  might  be  quite  satisfactory 
in  households  where  only  a  small  quantity  of  hot  water  is  used, 
as  in  warm  climates  where  people  are  not  accustomed  to  much 
hot  water.  From  the  central  station  point  of  view,  the  Inter- 
mittent System  is  favored  where  the  maximum  demand  is  not 


WATER  HEATING  183 


important,  because  the  generating  cost  forms  the  larger  portion 
of  the  cost  per  kilowatt  hour.  The  use  of  a  thermostat  in  con- 
nection with  the  Interniittent  System  will  be  of  value  chiefly  as 
a  protection  against  accidental  over-heating  of  the  heating  unit, 
in  case  the  switch  is  carelessly  left  on  long  enough  to  cause  the 
generation  of  steam. 

Factors  Affecting  Montfxly  Bill.  The  consumer's  bill  for  water 
heating  depends  on  the  following  factors,  arranged  in  the  order 
of  their  importance: 

1.  The  rate  by  central  stations  for  current  used  for  water 
heating. 

2.  The  amount  of  hot  water  used  by  the  consumer;  that  is,  the 
service  given  to  the  consumer,  for  which  he  will  pay  in  pro- 
portion to  what  he  gets.    This  is  an  important  factor. 

3.  The  climate',  that  is,  the  daily  temperature,  and  especially  the 
average  temperature  of  the  cold  water.  These  conditions  vary 
so  widely  over  the  United  States  that  each  central  station 
must  consider  its  own  climatic  conditions. 

4.  The  efficiency  of  the  water  heating  system;  that  is,  tank  lag- 
ging, pipe  lagging,  etc.  (The  efficiency  with  which  heat  is 
transmitted  from  heating  unit  to  water,  whether  outside  cir- 
culation, inside  circulation  or  clamp-on,  etc.,  is  of  little 
importance,  because  it  is  nearly  100%  in  any  case.) 

If  a  Storage  System,  the  number  of  kilowatt  hours  used  per 
month  depends  on  whether  the  salesman  properly  estimated  the 
size  of  heater  for  the  family's  requirements.  This  difficulty  is 
not  present  if  a  thermostat  is  used,  as  it  automatically  supplies 
only  enough  hot  water  to  meet  the  actual  requirements. 
Efficiency  and  Time  to  Heat  Water.  Much  misleading  infor- 
mation has  been  published  on  water  heater  efficiency  because  the 
authors  have  not  considered  actual  working  conditions.  For 
example:  It  is  often  stated  that  the  efficiency  of  an  immersion 
unit  is  100%.    It  is  true  that,  if  one  considers  only  the  direct 


184 


ELECTRIC  WATER  HEATERS 


transmission  of  heat  from  an  immersion  unit  to  the  water,  the 
efficiency  is  almost  100%. 

But  the  practical  efficiency  takes  into  consideration  the  whole 
system,  including  not  only  the  heating  unit,  but  the  insulation 
on  the  tank,  piping,  and  quantity  of  hot  water  used.  Practical 
efficiency  is  that  at  which  the  electric  heater  furnishes  hot  water 
at  the  faucet.  A  wrong  impression  is  created  if  one  considers 
merely  the  efficiency  measured  by  heating  a  tank  of  water  from 
cold  to  hot.  What  the  household  does  in  actual  practice  is  to 
draw  water  at  different  times  and  in  various  amounts,  all  through 
the  day,  so  that  practical  efficiency  is  determined  by  using  just 
such  24-hour  cycles  of  use. 

In  order  to  get  a  standard  test  by  which  different  systems  and 
equipments  could  be  compared,  the  following  cycle  was  selected: 

STANDARD   24-HOUR   CYCLE 


Gallons  Hot 

Gallons  Hot 

Time 

Water  Drawn 

Purpose 

Time 

Water  Drawn 

Purpose 

7:00  A.M. 

1.0 

Cooking  Breakfast. 

1:30  P.M. 

5.0 

Washing  Luncheon 

7:15  A.M. 

5.0 

Bathroom. 

Dishes. 

8:30  A.M. 

5.0 

Washing  Breakfast 

3:00  P.M. 

2.0 

Bathroom  or  Cooking. 

Dishes. 

4:30  P.M. 

2.0 

Cooking  Dinner. 

10:30  A.M. 

2.0 

Cooking  Luncheon. 

5:15  P.M. 

5.0 

Bathroom. 

11:30  A.M. 

2.0 

Cooking  Luncheon. 

6:00  P.M. 

5.0 

Washing  Dinner 

12:00  M. 

5.0 

Bathroom. 

Dishes. 

Remainder  for  Baths. 

''How  much  hot  water  can  I  get  with  a  heater  of  such  a  size?'' 
is  a  question  commonly  asked,  but  **hot  water"  is  an  indefinite 
thing.  To  answer  the  question  one  must  know  the  temperature 
of  the  *'hot  water''  wanted.  Bath  water  at  104  degrees  F.  is 
quite  hot  enough  for  most  people.  Water  for  washing  dishes 
should  be  about  150  degrees  F.  If  hot  water  is  supplied  at  this 
or  a  higher  temperature,  cooler  water  can  readily  be  had  by 
mixing  the  hot  water  with  cold  water.  (An  excessive  temperature 
at  the  faucet  causes  waste  of  heat.) 


WATER  HEATING 


185 


The  familiar  question,  *'How  long  does  it  take  to  get  hot 
water?"  is  like  the  previous  question,  '*How  much  hot  water 
can  I  get?"  To  get  the  answer  one  must  always  know  the 
temperature. 

The  temperatures  of  104  degrees  F.  and  150  degrees  F.  have 
been  previously  referred  to  as  suitable  for  bath  and  dish -washing 
respectively.  Show  the  time  required  to  get  various  amounts  of 
hot  water  with  several  sizes  of  heating  units.  The  results  would 
be  greatly  changed  by  variations  in  the  temperature  of  the  feed 
water — the  warmer  the  feed  water,  the  more  hot  water  can  be 
obtained  with  a  given  amount  of  electric  energy. 

TABLE    SHOWING   EFFICIENCY   AND   GALLONS 
PER  24  HOURS  OF  WATER  HEATED  TO  104°  F. 

(36-gal.  tank  covered  with  1"  hair  felt  insulation  on  tank 
and  I"  magnesia  covering  circulation  piping.    Cold 
water,  39°  F.    Faucet  close  to  tank.) 


Kind  of 
System 


Storage 

Storage 

Storage 

Intermittent 
Intermittent 


Kind  of  Equipment 


Outside  circulation. 
Outside  circulation  . 

"Clamp-on" 

Outside  circulation  . 
Outside  circulation  . 


Effi- 

Watts 

ciency 

600 

82% 

1000 

76% 

750 

78% 

3000 

73% 

5000 

69% 

No.  Gals.  Hot 

Water 

Available  at 

104°  F.  per 

24  Hours 

75 
117 

89 
330 
525 


Types  of  Heaters 

Choosing  Equipment.  Having  decided  on  the  system — 
whether  Storage  or  Intermittent — there  remains  the  question  of 
the  proper  equipment  to  use.  The  equipment  may  be  classified 
under  three  applications: 

1.  Outside-Circulation  Type  Heater 

2.  Inside-Circulation  Type  Heater 

3.  *'Clamp-on"  Type  Heater 


186 

ELECTRIC  WATER  HEATERS 

/<» 

::^ 

/' 

^ 

^ 

/ 

^ 

,^ 

^ 

/ 

/ 

/" 

ir^ 

^ 

'' 

1 

/ 

/ 

/' 

^ 

^ 

*."' 

?/ 

y 

/ 

^ 

^ 

70 

ti 

/ 

^/ 

/ 

^ 

X 

>/ 

I 

/' 

/ 

^ 

^ 

c 

§/ 

0 

J^ 

«<- 

v^ 

^^, 

'  ft 

1 

?^ 

^!' 

V 

.^i 

/^ 

«v 

f° 

/ 

•^ii. 

?/ 

,♦ 

> 

rf 

V 

v^vi 

/ 

f^ 

ll^ 

^^ 

/ 

( 

> 

f  y 

/ 

/ 

/ 

/ 

/ 

/<? 

/ 

/ 

/ 

/ 

Ij 

/ 

/ 

/ 

uf 

,/ 

0 

W\ 

—^ 

—. 

1 

— 

1 

p— 

9 

—J 

t 

y 

/ 

i 

/ 

0 

,. 

.. 

.. 

it 

-.. 

.. 

"~1 

2 

jy 

r/A7£-  -  HOURS 
Chart  showing  time  required  to  heat  water  to  104°  F. 


The  first  two  are  applied  to  both  Storage  and  Intermittent  Sys- 
tems; the  **clamp-on"  is  satisfactory  for  the  storage  system  only. 

Outside-Circulation  Type  Water  Heater.  This  type  is  shown 
on  page  179  for  both  storage  and  intermittent.  The  water 
heater  is  connected  by  piping,  outside  any  standard  tank.  .  It  is 
easily  applied  to  a  tank  already  in  the  house  without  any  change 
in  the  tank  itself,  but,  of  course,  it  requires  the  services  of  a 
plumber  to  make  the  pipe  connections. 

Because  hot  water  is  lighter  than  cold  water,  it  rises,  and  the 
water  automatically  circulates  through  the  tank  and  water 
heater  in  the  direction  of  the  arrows  shown.  By  delivering  the 
hot  water  from  the  heater  to  the  top  of  the  tank,  where  it  natur- 
ally accumulates,  it  is  not  necessary  to  wait  to  heat  the  entire 
tank  of  hot  water  when  only  a  small  quantity  is  wanted.    This 


TYPES  OP 

•  / 

/£ 

A 

TE 

R. 

s 

] 

187 

jO 

/ 

^ 

.A 

vo 

/I 

/ 

/ 

y 

/ 

/ 

Y 

/ 

/ 

/ 

y 

/ 

/ 

/ 

^ 

^0 

I 

/ 

/ 

y 

/ 

\, 

/ 

y 

y 

*0 

> 

V 

r 

n 

/^ 

ly 

<5 

( 

)/ 

,.( 

e' 

/ 

y 

y 

L 

/ 

i 

/ 

y 

«y 

/ 

nC 

f^ 

y 

/ 

/ 

\ 

V> 

y 

l 

/ 

/ 

/ 

y 

y 

'/ 

/ 

y 

/ 

^ 

y 

z 

^ 

J        y      ^        ^        7        6        ^       JO      //       /A       /J      /^y      Af 

T//^£r  -  HOURS 
Chart  showing  time  required  to  heat  water  to  ISO''  F, 

effect  of  quickly  accumulating  a  small  quantity  of  hot  water  in 
the  top  of  the  tank  can  be  increased  by  restricting  the  flow  in 
the  circulation  piping.  In  illustration  on  page  179,  service  cocks 
are  shown  on  each  side  of  the  heater.  Partly  close  the  lower  one; 
the  result  is  that  the  water  passes  more  slowly  over  the  heating 
unit  and  is  therefore  heated  to  a  higher  temperature.  Illustration 
on  page  181  shows  graphically  how  the  water  in  the  top  of  the 
tank  is  much  hotter  than  the  average  temperature  of  the  water. 
(Be  careful  not  to  adjust  to  such  a  small  orifice  that  steam  is 
formed.)  A  restrictor  cannot  be  recommended  if  the  water  has 
much  of  a  tendency  to  form  scale,  because  in  such  a  case,  the 
orifice  in  the  service  cock  will  quickly  clog  and  the  unit  will 
coat  itself  with  scale  in  a  short  time. 


188 


ELECTRIC  WATER  HEATERS 


amgm  noSH 


COLD  WATER^ 
INLET  ^ 


Inaide-circulation    type    electric 
water   h  eater . 


Inside-Circulation  Type 
Wa  ter  Hea  ter.  Illustration  here 
shows  the  immersion  unit  in- 
stalled inside  a  special  tank  in 
such  a  way  as  to  get  the  water 
circulation  as  shown  by  the  ar- 
rows. The  double-walled  pipe 
with  air  jacket  around  the  im- 
mersion unit  causes  the  desired 
circulation  and  accumulation  of 
hot  water  in  the  top  of  the  tank. 
The  chief  advantage  of  this  is 
that  water  heater  and  tank  are 
a  self-contained  unit  with  no 
exterior  circulation  piping.  It  is 
slightly  more  efficient  and  much 
neater  in  appearance  than  the 
outside  circulation  type. 

The  special  field  of  the  inside- 
circulation  type  water  heater  is 
for  installation  in  new  buildings 
where  there  is  no  question  of 
utilizing  old  coal  or  gas-heated 
tanks.  Like  the  outside-circu- 
lation  water  heater,  the  water 
circulation  can  be  restricted  by 
reducing  the  flow  through  the 
short  piping  under  the  tank.  To 
remove  scale  from  the  unit,  the 
water  is  first  drawn  from  the 
tank  and  the  four  bolts  removed 


TYPES  OF  HEATERS  189 


from  the  flange  near  the  head  of  the  unit.  The  unit  is  removed 
and  the  scale  cracked  off  with  a  hammer.  Always  install  the  tank 
high  enough  above  the  floor  so  that  the  unit  is  easily  removed. 

This  form  of  heater  is  not  to  be  confused  with  a  mere  immersion 
tank  heater  which  many  people  suppose  to  be  quite  efficient.  If 
an  immersion  heater  is  stuck  into  the  side  or  bottom  of  a  tank 
without  any  special  provision  for  circulating  the  water,  it  will 
take  a  very  long  time  to  get  hot  water  because  the  tank  will 
heat  so  gradually. 

In  the  inside-circulation  water  heater,  the  circulation  is  effected 
by  means  of  a  double-walled,  air-jacketed  pipe  inside  the  tank. 
The  heater  is  placed  inside  this  circulation  pipe,  and  as  the 
water  is  heated  it  rises  to  the  top  of  the  tank  and  accumulates 
there;  the  air-jacket  on  the  pipe  acting  as  a  heat  insulator  and 
prevent  the  ascending  column  of  hot  water  from  being  chilled. 
In  this  way  the  double  circulation  pipe  shown  inside  the  tank 
causes  a  similar  circulation  to  that  of  the  single  pipe  outside  the 
tank  in  the  outside  circulation  system. 

^^Clamp-on'  Type  Water  Heater.  This  form  of  heater,  as 
shown  on  page  190,  is  readily  installed  on  the  tank  already  in 
the  house,  without  any  change  in  the  tank,  and  does  not  even 
require  the  services  of  a  plumber.  It  is  simply  '*clamped-on''  the 
lower  part  of  the  tank — hence  its  name.  The  heat  is  applied 
through  the  wall  of  the  tank,  which,  of  course,  must  be  well  lagged 
or  insulated.  A  layer  of  asbestos  felt  at  least  three-quarters  of  an 
inch  thick,  is  placed  over  the  heating  unit  only  and  the  usual  tank 
insulation  laced  over  the  entire  tank,  heater  and  asbestos.  The 
layer  of  non-combustible  asbestos  insulation  is  between  the  unit 
and  ordinary  tank  insulation  to  prevent  the  latter  burning.  As 
there  is  an  extra  thickness  at  the  unit,  the  outer  insulation  jacket 


190 


ELECTRIC  WATER  HEATER 


S£R\^/C£  COCf< 


'Clamp-on*'  type  electric 
water  heater. 


should  have  part  of  its  material 
cut  away  so  as  to  allow  the  jacket 
to  meet  property,  and  also  to 
prevent  an  unsightly  bulge  at 
the  unit.  The  absence  of  piping 
makes  a  very  attractive  in- 
stallation. 

The  formation  of  scale  inside 
the  tank  with  such  a  heater  is 
so  slow  that  it  will  probably 
never  cause  trouble  because  the 
heat  is  distributed  over  such  a 
large  area  at  a  moderate  temper- 
ature. In  case  any  amount  of 
scale  should  form  after  years  of 
use,  the  position  of  the  heater 
could  be  changed  on  the  tank. 

There  are  no  special  means  for 
circulating  the  water;  therefore, 
to  heat  any  water  in  the  tank, 
all  must  be  heated.  Thus  the 
water  will  only  heat  gradually 
and  this  form  of  heater  is  one  of 
the  best  for  the  Storage  System. 

The  construction  of  the  heater 
is  extremely  simple,  consisting 
of  a  flat  coil  of  sheath  wire.  The 
heater  carries  a  terminal  box 
similar  to  that  used  with  the 
circulation  heater,  and  is  gener- 
ally furnished  with  or  without 


TYPES  OF  HEATERS 


191 


snap  switch.  Clamping  straps  and  bolts  are  furnished  with  the 
heater,  adjustable  to  fit  any  size  of  tank. 

Importance  of  Heat  Insulation.  The  effect  of  lagging  the 
tank  is  so  great  that  electric  water  heating  is  not  feasible  without 
proper  insulation.  An  electric  water  heater  must  never  be  in- 
stalled unless  the  tank  is  well  heat -insulated. 

The    following    comparative    figures,    given   for   the    Storage 
System,  illustrate  the  importance  of  lagging  for  all  systems : 


600 
Watts 

1000 
Watts 

Efficiency  of  lagged  tank,  1"  hair  felt  insulation 
I          (Storage  System)  outside  circulation  equipment 
Efficiency  of  same  tank  without  lagging  (Storage 
System)  outside  circulation  equipment 

82% 

48% 

76% 
46% 

Reducing  the  above  figures  to  watts,  it  is  obvious  that  by  using 
an  unlagged  tank,  as  compared  to  one  properly  lagged,  one  would 
waste  214  watts  steadily  day  and  night  with  a  600-watt  heater. 
With  a  1000-watt  heater,  360  watts  would  be  wasted. 

Scale  Formation.  Some  localities  are  especially  troubled  by 
the  excessive  tendency  of  the  water  to  form  scale  in  water 
heaters — notably  the  Inter-Mountain  District,  and  especially 
Utah  and  Nevada.  Generally  speaking,  the  eastern  part  of  the 
United  States  is  not  seriously  troubled,  but  it  is  impossible  to 
make  any  broad  geographical  classification.  Each  central  station 
will  look  into  this  question  of  scale  formation  for  itself.  In  some 
cities  in  the  West  where  there  are  two  sources  of  water  supply, 
it  is  found  that  one  source  of  water  may  give  serious  trouble, 
while  the  other  is  comparatively  free  from  scale-forming  ten- 
dencies. 


192 


ELECTRIC  WATER  HEATER 


% 


'n 


Where  much  scale  is  present,  a  heater  should  be  selected  which 
may  be  easily  cleaned  and  which  is  not  easily  damaged  by  the 
process.  Experience  has  demonstrated  that  a  water  heater  should 
not  be  made  like  a  tube  with  the  heating  unit 
surrounding  the  water.  Illustration  here  shows 
how  scale  collects  in  such  a  heater,  from  which  it 
cannot  be  removed. 

In  all  but  the  worst  conditions,  the  scale  pro- 
blem is  practically  solved  by  the  immersion 
unit — ^whether  inside-circulation  or  outside-cir- 
culation — ^which  can  be  readily  removed  from 
the  water  heater  and  the  scale  cracked  off  with 
a  hammer.  With  the  immersion  unit  the  scale 
accumulates  on  the  outside  instead  of  the  inside, 
and  this  makes  the  difference  between  easy 
cleaning  and  impossible  cleaning.  Of  course, 
the  scale  must  not  be  allowed  to  accumulate  too 
thickly,  for  while  the  operating  efficiency  of  the 
heater  is  not  appreciably  affected,  inasmuch  as 
the  heater  is  surrounded  by  water,  yet  the 
heating  unit  will  have  to  operate  at  a  higher 
temperature  to  force  the  heat  through  the  wall 
of  scale  and  this  will  have  a  tendency  to  shorten 
the  life  of  the  unit.  It  is  evident  that  long  life 
from  an  immersion  unit  cannot  be  expected  if 
it  is  covered  with  a  thick  layer  of  scale,  because 
the  scale  is  a  heat  insulator. 
An  immersion  unit,  in  order  to  be  satisfactory  in  use  with 
scale-forming  water,  must  also  be  of  such  rugged  and  simple 
mechanical  construction  as  to  stand  the  process  of  cleaning,  and 
to  be  easily  cleaned.   One  mechanically  weak  would  be  damaged 


Pipes  showing 
two  months' 
scale  forma- 
tion in  old- 
time  water 
heater. 


TYPES  OF  HEATERS  193 


if  not  destroyed,  and  one  with  irregular  surfaces  would  be  im- 
possible to  clean.  A  heater  should  also  be  selected  that  does  not 
operate  at  too  high  a  density  of  watts  per  square  inch  of  heating 
surface  because  it  would  then  accumulate  scale  too  rapidly. 

The  "clamp-on"  type  of  heater  is  recommended  when  there  is 
serious  trouble  from  scale.  This  kind  of  unit  heats  the  water  from 
so  large  a  surface  that  no  trouble  has  been  experienced  from 
scale  formation. 


**We  are  glad  to  report  that  up  to  April  8th, 
1918,  the  number  of  ranges  installed  on 
our  system  is  now  approximately  2,000 
with  approximately  1,200  water  heaters. 
In  other  words,  60%  of  our  installations 
are  all  electric  kitchens.  During  the  cam- 
paign starting  January  1st,  1918,  and  ending 
April  1st,  1918,  we  sold  324  ranges  and  533 
water  heaters.  The  estimated  revenue  on 
the  324  ranges  is  $14,300  and  on  the  533 
water  heaters  is  $14,262  or  a  net  gain  in 
the  range  and  water  heater  business  for 
the  three  months'  period  of  $28,562.  The 
water  heater  installations  are  the  things 
which  count  as  the  capital  expenditure  is 
really  made  for  the  ranges  and  the  revenue 
from  the  water  heaters  which  nearly  equals 
the  revenue  from  the  ranges,  is  received 
without  additional  capital  expenditure." 

M.  C.  Osborn,  Washington  Water 
Power  Company,  Spokane. 


mos? 


CHAPTER  XI 

COMMERCIAL  COOKING  APPARATUS 

Electric  Bread  Baking 

Development.  The  electric  bread  baking  oven  is  the  most 
efficient  oven  of  its  kind  on  the  market.  Aggressive  central 
stations  have  realized  its  great  possibilities  as  a  load  builder  and 
revenue  producer  and  have  earnestly  solicited  and  secured  this 
class  of  business.  Today  electric  bread  baking  ovens  are  in 
operation  throughout  the  United  States.  These  installations  are 
in  bakeries,  hotels,  restaurants,  hospitals,  clubs  and  other  various 
kinds  of  public  and  private  institutions. 

Advantages.  The  advantages  of  electric  baking  are:  The 
superior  quality  of  the  product  and  the  advertising  value  and 
prestige  of  operating  a  modern  and  sanitary  bakery,  with  the 
resultant  increased  business.  The  advantages  of  the  electric 
bread  oven  itself  are  described  in  the  next  subject. 

Breads  and  pastries  come  from  the  electric  oven  purer  in 
quality,  finer  in  texture,  more  uniform  in  size  and  more  evenly 
browned  because  flame,  fumes,  soot,  brick  dust  and  air  currents 
are  eliminated.  There  is  a  further  advantage  in  the  saving  of 
material.  Mixtures  may  be  smaller  to  get  the  same  quantity  of 
baked  goods  because  through  the  elimination  of  air  currents,  the 
bread  and  pastry  does  not  dry  as  much  as  in  a  fuel  oven.  Thus 
in  mixing  dough,  an  allowance  for  moisture  evaporation  is  not 
necessary.  In  a  shop  where  a  large  amount  of  baking  is  done 
each  day,  the  saving  is  surprisingly  large. 

194 


ELECTRIC  BREAD  BAKING 


195 


Complete  electric  kitchen  installed  in  a  large  cafeteria  in  the  West.    Note 

the  small  space  occupied  by  the  electric  oven  which  does  all  the  baking 

for   this  large  restaurant. 


For  example:  In  Shay's  Cafeteria  in  Salt  Lake  City,  the  bakers 
find  it  possible  to  cut  down  the  size  of  their  Parker  House  rolls 
from  four  to  three-and-a-half  inches  in  dough  size  and  eliminate 
the  milk  in  cakes.  They  find  that  the  same  results  are  obtained 
in  the  electric  oven  without  these  materials  as  were  produced  in 
the  old  gas  oven  when  the  rolls  were  larger  and  milk  was  used. 

Electrically  baked  bread  is  quality  bread  because  it  is  baked  by 
the  cleanest  and  most  perfect  method.  The  electrical  method  not 
only  wins  the  housewife  who  buys  bakery  bread  but  it  wins  the 
more  fastidious  woman  who  does  her  own  baking.  When  a  bakery 


196  COMMERCIAL  COOKING  APPARATUS 

or  restaurant  installs  a  bake  oven,  it  has  a  very  logical  reason  for 
advertising  this  new  method. 

Many  installations  have  either  a  permanent  window  exhibit 
of  the  bake  oven  or  mention  electrically-cooked  food  on  the  menu 
and  in  their  advertising.  Experts  have  conservatively  estimated 
that  it  is  worth  at  least  $100  a  month  to.  any  fair-sized  hotel, 
restaurant  or  bakery  to  advertise  that  its  food  is  cooked  by  the 
electrical  method.  When  a  person  reads  "electrically-cooked*'  it 
instantly  brings  to  their  mind  cleanliness  and  perfection  in  results 

People  go  out  of  their  way  to  get  good  food  and  hotels  and 
restaurants  which  have  installed  electrical  appliances  have  been^ 
known  to  draw  trade  from  other  establishments. 

Bread  Baking  Ovens 

Capacities.   The  commercial  electric  bread  baking  oven  is  made 
in  many  sizes,  from  the  small  portable  oven  with  a  capacity  of 
30  one-pound  loaves  of  bread  to  the  big  brick  oven  with  a  capa 
city  of  600  one-pound  loaves  at  one  baking. 

Electric  ovens  are  constructed  in  cabinet  form  and  are  smaller 
in  size  than  *'fuer'  ovens  of  the  same  capacity.  Small-sized  ovens 
are  generally  recommended  by  salesmen  so  the  baking  surface 
will  not  be  larger  than  absolutely  necessary.  It  is  much  more 
economical  to  maintain  a  baking  temperature  in  a  small  oven 
and  bake  three  batches  of  dough  than  it  is  to  heat  a  large  oven 
for  one  batch.  This  is  one  of  the  factors  in  the  economy  of  the 
electric  oven  and  a  sales  point  which  should  be  thoroughly 
studied  by  central  station  men. 

Advantages.  Advantages  of  the  oven  are:  Simplicity  of  oper- 
ation, absolute  control,  perfect  heat  distribution,  saving  in  labor, 
time,  floor  space  and  fuel  storage  bins  and  the  most  efficient 
utilization   of  heat.     The   ovens   are   operated   by   three-heat 


BREAD  BAKING  OVENS 


197 


Modem  type  of  large  electric  bread-baking  oven.     The  capacity  of  this 

oven  is  600  one-pound  loaves  of  bread  at  one  time.     Connected  load  is 

approximately  80  kw-hrs. 

switches  and  any  desired  regulation  of  temperature  is  quickly- 
secured.  The  handling  of  fuel  and  ashes  is  eliminated  and  the 
necessity  of  keeping  the  fire  alive  all  night  for  the  early  morning 
baking  is  unnecessary. 

Current  is  used  only  when  the  oven  is  baking.  The  heat  is 
not  **killed"  after  each  batch  and  no  time  is  lost  in  re -heating. 
As  soon  as  one  batch  of  bread  is  removed  another  batch  can  be 
loaded  immediately.  As  the  * 'firing"  is  eliminated  and  fuel 
handling  and  flue  cleaning  are  avoided,  there  is  an  appreciable 
saving  in  labor. 


198  COMMERCIAL  COOKING  APPARATUS 

For  example:  In  Shay's  Cafeteria  in  Salt  Lake  City,  which 
serves  1500  persons  a  day,  their  former  gas  oven  required  two 
bakers  and  an  assistant.  After  the  electric  oven  was  installed, 
only  one  baker  and  an  assistant  were  needed  and  approximately 
300  percent  greater  capacity  was  secured. 

The  entire  oven  is  under  absolute  control  at  all  times.  No 
dampers  have  to  be  operated.  As  there  is  no  dust  nor  dirty 
flues,  the  electric  oven  is  well  adapted  for  display  baking  in  show 
windows  and  booths  in  department  stores,  exhibits  and  similar 
places. 

As  the  construction  is  usually  in  deck  form,  the  electric  oven 
occupies  one -quarter  to  one -half  the  floor  space  of  the  brick  fuel 
oven.  Owing  to  its  comparatively  light  weight,  no  special,  heavy 
construction  of  the  building  is  required. 

Commercial  Installations 

Progress.  Electric  restaurant  apparatus  has  been  developed  to 
such  an  extent  that  commercial  cookery  is  today  on  a  sound 
business  basis  both  from  the  standpoint  of  the  user  and  the 
central  station.  There  are  hundreds  of  installations  throughout 
the  United  States.  As  a  rule,  they  are  in  the  more  prominent 
and  progressive  hotels  and  restaurants.  Not  only  have  hotels 
and  restaurants  adopted  electric  cookery  but  also  clubs,  colleges, 
domestic  science  classes,  hospitals  and  other  public  institutions. 

Advantages.  The  advantages  of  commercial  cookery  are  the 
same  as  in  domestic  cookery  but  there  are  other  favorable 
factors  in  the  commercial  installation.  For  example:  The  elec- 
tric appliance  eliminates  the  continuous  fire  for  an  occasional 
order.  Current  is  used  only  when  cooking  is  done  and  the  heat 
is  applied  directly  to  the  food. 


COMMERCIAL  INSTALLATIONS 


199 


Commercial  electric  range  installation  in  a  large  apartment  house  kitchen 
in   the  South.     Colored  people,   too,  delight  in  cooking  electrically.   The 
steam  table  in  the  foreground  is  also  electrically  heated. 


Commercial  kitchens  equipped  with  apparatus  using  electricity 
are  cooler  than  those  using  gas  or  solid  fuel.  The  apparatus  in- 
sures greater  cleanliness  and  takes  up  less  room  which  is  particu- 
larly advantageous  in  high-rent  districts  where  kitchen  space 
must  be  limited.  But  the  most  important  advantage  of  electric 
baking  and  cooking  is  the  superior  product  secured.  See  Better 
Cooked  Food,  page  135. 

The  electrical  method  is  particularly  adapted  to  high-temper- 
ature operations  such  as  broiling,  frying,  roasting  and  baking  all 
of  which  are  accomplished  rapidly  and  with  more  efficiency  and 
certainty  than  is  possible  with  the  old  methods. 

There  is  also  a  saving  in  the  shrinkage  of  meat  which  is  very 


200 


COMMERICAL  COOKING  APPARATUS 


appreciable.  For  example:  In  a  cafeteria  in  California  where  all 
the  cooking  is  done  electrically,  it  is  estimated  that  the  saving  in 
the  shrinkage  of  meat  alone  pays  for  the  cost  of  the  lighting 
and  cooking  current  which  averages  more  than  $100  a  month. 
Then,  too,  there  is  the  advertising  value  which  is  described  under 
Electric  Bread  Baking  on  page  194. 

Recent  Roasting  Test.  The  following  test  was  recently  made 
in  the  kitchens  of  J.  Lyons  and  Company,  one  of  the  large  res- 
taurateurs of  London,  England.  The  cooking  was  done  in  an 
electric  oven  by  a  chef  who  was  inexperienced  with  this  apparatus. 
Four  sirloins  of  rather  fatty  beef  were  used.  Note  that  the  average 
loss  in  shrinkage  was  only  1.49  ounces  per  pound  or  9.31  per  cent. 


OVEN  OPERATIONS 

Time 

Meter        Watts 

Temp.         Remarks 

11.05 

2635           5250 

48     Switched  "Full 

11.25 

5250 

342     4  joints  in  oven 

11.30 

5250 

324 

12.10 

5250 

418 

12.25 

2642           2960 

440     Switched  "Medium'' 

1.00 

2960 

400 

1.55 

2960 

400     Removed  No.  4  joint 

2.35 

2960 

410     Removed  No.  2  joint 

2.45 

2649           2960 

400     Removed  Nos.  1  and  3  joints 

Switched  **Off" 

FOUR  SIRLOINS  OF  BEEF 

Initial  Weight 

Final  Weight     Average  Loss 

Remarks 

No.  1  Joint  34  lbs.  12  ozs. 

29  lbs.  4  ozs.           15.8% 

Drippings 

No.  2  Joint  28  lbs.    0  ozs. 

22  lbs.  5  ozs.           20.2% 

weighed 

No.  3  Joint  36  lbs.    8  ozs. 

29  lbs.  5  ozs.           19.6%) 

12  lbs. 

No.  4  Joint  26  lbs.    4  ozs. 

21  lbs.  1  ozs.           19.6%o 

125  lbs.    8  ozs     ] 

LOl  lbs.  15  ozs.         18.8%? 

COMMERICAL  INSTALLATIONS 


201 


Complete  electric  kitchen  installed  in  a  large  Detroit  Hospital.    Such  an  in- 
stallation not  only  includes  electric  ranges  but  bake  ovens,  bread-mixing 
machinery,   electric  griddles,   kettles,    broilers,    toasters  and  similar   ap- 
paratus. 

Restaurant  Cooking  Apparatus 

Kinds   on   Market.     The   commercial   cooking   appliances   in 
general  use  today  are: 


Restaurant  Ranges 

Large  Baking  Ovens 

Toasters 

Broilers 

Plate  and  Food  Warmers 


Frying  Griddles 
Steam  Table  Heaters 
Coffee  Urn  Heaters 
Frying  Kettles 
Waffle  Irons 


Planning  Installations.  The  success  of  a  commercial  instal- 
lation depends  upon  the  selection  of  the  apparatus,  the  rate 
charged  for  the  electric  current  and  the  care  with  which  the 
equipment  is  operated.    Before  ordering  the  devices  it  is  well  for 


202  COMMERCIAL  COOKING  APPARATUS 


the  central  station  engineer  to  assist  the  manager  of  the  restaur- 
ant in  estimating  just  what  size  range,  bake  oven,  steam  table 
and  other  equipment  is  required.  If  the  restaurateur  does  it 
himself  the  mistake  will  perhaps  be  made  of  ordering  appliances 
that  are  too  large  and  consume  an  unnecessary  amount  of  current. 
An  important  factor  in  the  success  of  the  installation  is  the 
chef  or  operator.  In  some  cases  he  is  unfriendly  in  the  beginning 
to  this  new  method  and  will  do  everything  within  his  power  to 
oppose  its  use.  The  most  common  way  of  deliberately  discour- 
aging the  use  of  electrically-heated  appliances  is  to  leave  the 
current  on  *'High''  when  the  apparatus  is  not  in  use.  At  the 
end  of  the  month  the  bill  is  much  higher  than  the  central  station 
man  estimated  and  the  showing  may  lead  to  the  discontinuance 
of  the  use  of  the  apparatus.  So  it  is  important  to  earn  the  good- 
will of  the  chef. 

Rates  and  Revenue.  Commercial  cooking  appliances  provide 
a  very  good  load  factor  because  they  are  used  almost  continu- 
ously from  early  in  the  morning  until  late  at  night.  The  business 
is  very  desirable  and  central  stations  can  afford  to  make  very 
attractive  rates  for  it.  The  rate  must  of  course  be  determined 
by  each  central  station  and  should  be  based  on  the  connected 
load,  the  average  demand  and  the  amount  of  revenue  possible. 
For  example :  A  large  hotel  using  many  thousand  kilowatt  hours 
per  month  should  naturally  be  granted  a  lower  rate  than  a  small 
restaurant  with  a  few  lights  and  one  small  range.  No  represen- 
tative rates  are  available  because  they  vary  with  every  instal- 
lation. They  are  believed  however  to  average  between  l3^  cents 
and  23^  cents  per  kilowatt  hour  for  this  class  of  business. 


CHAPTER  XII 


GENERAL  RANGE  INFORMATION 


Standardized  Names  of  Range  Parts 


This  nomenclature  contains  only  the  parts  which  are  included 
in  the  general  construction  of  all  standard  makes  of  electric 
ranges.    It  has  been  approved  by  the  range  manufacturers. 


Electric  Range 
Surface   Unit 


Heating  units  of  the  cooking  top — either  open 
or  enclosed  type. 


Simmering  Unit     Low  wattage  unit  of  the  cookery  top. 
Resistance  Wire      Heating  wire  of  the  surface  and  oven  units. 


Sheath  Wire 


Surface   Unit 
Brick 


Insulating 
Receptacle 

Surface  Coil 
Frame 


Metal-sheated  insulated  resistance  wire  used 
in  the  construction  of  the  enclosed-type  sur- 
face and  oven  units  of  certain  makes  of 
ranges. 

Grooved  porcelain  or  composition  brick  which 
holds  the  heating  wire  of  open-type  surface 
units. 

Composition  cup  which  supports  and  insulates 
the  surface  unit.    Certain  makes  of  ranges. 

Supporting  frame  of  the  heating  wire  of  a  re- 
flected-heat  type  surface  unit. 

203 


204 


GENERAL  RANGE  INFORMATION 


Asbestos  Wire 


Range  Terminal 
Block 

Cooking  Top 


Drip  Pan 


Asbestos  insulated  wire  used  in  the  interior  of 
the  range. 

Porcelain  or  composition  block  used  in  con- 
necting the  service  leads  to  the  range  wiring. 

Metal  top  or  flat  section  of  the  range  where 
the  open  cookery  is  done. 

Sheet   metal   pan   used   to   catch   drippings, 
crumbs  and  other  waste. 


Automatic  Range  Range  in  which  either  or  both  the  surface  and 
oven  units  may  be  turned  on  by  a  clock  and 
off  by  a  thermostat  operating  through  the 
medium  of  a  circuit  breaker. 


Oven   Unit 
Baffle  Plate 


Oven  Terminal 
Block 

Oven  Terminal 
Receptacle 

Oven  Vent 


Oven  Lining 
Oven  Insulation 

Oven  Racks 


Heating  unit  of  the  oven. 

Metal  plate  placed  over  the  bottom  oven  unit 
to  distribute  the  heat.  Certain  makes  of 
ranges  only. 

Insulating  block  which  carries  the  terminal 
wires  through  the  oven  wall.  Certain  makes 
of  ranges. 

Receptacle  in  which  the  oven  unit  plug  is 
inserted.    In  certain  makes  only. 

Small  opening  generally  located  in  the  back 
wall  of  the  oven  for  the  escape  of  excessive 
moisture  with  a  minimum  of  loss  of  heat. 

Interior  metal  walls  of  the  oven. 

Material  packed  between  the  exterior  and  in- 
terior metal  walls. 


STANDARDIZED  NAME  OF  RANGE  PARTS 


205 


Oven  Ledges  Back  supports  on  the  sides  of  the  oven  and 

broiler  compartments. 
Heat  Indicator 
Oven  Door 
Door  Handle 
Door  Catch 
Door  Spring 
Door  Hinge 
Broiler  Compartment 
Broiler  Unit 
Broiler  Vent 
Broiler  Pan 
Broiler  Pan  Rack 

Conservation  Extra  compartment  in  some  makes  of  ranges 

Compartment  used  for  the  long-time  cooking  of  such  foods 
as  soups,  stews,  pot  roasts  and  baked  beans. 
Thickly  insulated;  heated  by  a  low  wattage 
unit  and  is  without  a  vent.  In  other  words, 
it  is  a  fireless  cooker  attached  to  the  range. 

Compartment  used  to  warm  foods  and  dishes. 
Located  either  above  or  below  the  oven  from 
which  it  derives  its  heat. 

Switch  controlling  the  individual  surface,  oven 
and  broiler  units. 

Metal  panel  in  front  and  just  below  the  cook- 
ing top  which  is  the  backing  and  support  of 
the  switches. 

Vertical  section  which  supports  the  top  shelf. 

Horizontal  shelf  above  the  cooking  surface 
which  is  supported  by  the  back  splasher. 

Shelf  at  the  end  of  the  cooking  top. 

Support  of  the  back  splasher  and  top  shelf. 


Warming 
Compartment 

Snap  Switch 

Switchboard 


Back  Splasher 
Top  Shelf 

Side  Shelf 
Shelf  Bracket 


206 


GENERAL  RANGE  INFORMATION 


Oven  Brackets 
tySide  Splasher 
Fuse  Box 
Fuse  Block 
Fuse 
Legs 

Bottom  Shelf 
Pilot  Light 

Master  Switch 


Side  supports  of  the  elevated  oven. 
Splasher  at  the  side  of -the  cabinet  oven. 
Compartment  which  encloses  the  fuses. 
Block  upon  which  the  fuses  are  mounted. 
Screw  or  cartridge  type  fuse. 

Lower  shelf  attached  to  the  legs. 

Small  lamp  on  range  which  lights  when  any 
surface,  oven  or  broiler  is  turned  on. 

Large  enclosed  switch  installed  on  range  or 
kitchen  wall  which  connects  and  disconnects 
the  main-line  circuit. 


Insurance  Requirements 

National  Electrical  Code.  The  National  Electrical  Code  is 
issued  bi-annually  by  the  National  Board  of  Fire  Underwriters. 
The  rules  embodied  therein  are  the  result  of  many  years*  exper- 
ience and  study,  drawn  up  by  a  committee  of  the  National  Fire 
Protection  Association,  an  organization  which  has  the  active 
co-operation  of  a  large  number  of  interested  organizations.  Those 
co-operating  in  matters  electrical  and  represented  by  members  on 
the  committee  are: 

American  Electric  Railway  Association 
American  Institute  of  Electrical  Engineers 
Associated  Factory  Mutual  Fire  Insurance  Companies 
National  Association  of  Electrical  Inspectors 
National  Board  of  Fire  Underwriters 
National  Electric  Light  Association 
National  Electrical  Contractor's  Association 


INSURANCE  REQUIREMENTS  207 

This  code  prescribes  only  minimum  requirements  allowable 
and  it  is  always  .l)e1:ter  to  provide  wider  rnargin.  Its  rules  permit 
only  the  use  of  approved  fittings  and  material  and  its  provisions 
are  enforced  by  practically  all  municipal  and  insurance  inspectors. 

Underwriters'  Laboratories.  The  Underwriters'  Laboratories 
is  an  organization  whose  object  is  to  secure  for  the  user  the  best 
obtainable  opinion  on  the  merits  of  appliances,  devices,  machines 
and  materials  in  respect  to  the  life  and  fire  hazards,  and  accident 
prevention. 

Approved  Electrical  Fittings.  The  Underwriters'  Laboratories 
have  prepared  complete  standards  for  electrical  fittings.  All 
fittings  which  have  been  examined  and  found  to  comply  with 
these  standards  are  published  by  this  organization  in  a  book 
called  **List  of  Approved  Electrical  Fittings." 

Society^s  Range  Service 

Editorial  Aid.  In  the  past  two  years,  a  number  of  domestic 
science  and  home  management  books,  magazine  articles  and  ad- 
vertisements have  been  published  containing  incorrect  and  mis- 
leading statements  which  did  much  harm  to  the  national  develop- 
ment of  electric  cookery. 

This  subject  is  a  comparatively  new  one  and  many  writers  are 
not  fully  familiar  with  all  the  advantages  of  electric  cookery, 
the  construction,  operation  and  service  of  the  electric  range,  the 
technicalities  of  rates  and  other  points  which  have  an  important 
bearing  on  electric  cookery. 

The  Society  for  Electrical  Development  has  electric  range 
specialists  on  its  staff  who  are  glad  to  co-operate  (without  charge) 


208  GENERAL  RANGE  INFORMATION 

with  writers,  editors  and  advertising  agencies  on  such  articles, 
giving  them  the  benefit  of  this  knowledge  and  experience. 

Rate  Statistics.  The  Society's  Statistical  Department  has  the 
most  complete  record  of  cooking  rates  and  other  range  data  in 
the  world.    This  file  is  corrected  to  date. 

Merchandising  Service.  The  Society's  Merchandising  Service 
Department  is  open  to  central  station,  manufacturer,  jobber  and 
contractor-dealer  members.  It  assists  them  in  their  individual 
merchandising  and  advertising  problems. 

This  department  prepares  electrical  advertising  copy  of  all 
kinds,  layouts  and  complete  campaigns  of  any  size;  draws  de- 
signs for  booths,  floats  and  special  window  displays;  plans  store 
interiors;  writes  speeches,  lectures,  magazine  and  newspaper 
articles  on  all  electrical  subjects. 


DO  NOT  say  a  fuse  has  **bIown"  or 
**burned  out."  Both  are  alarming 
terms  and  create  a  fear  in  the  mind  of 
the  housewife.  It  is  much  better  to  say  the 
fuse  has  *'melted"  or  the  fuse  has  simply 
**cut  off  the  current." 


INDEX 


ADVANTAGES 

advertising,  150 

commercial  electric  bread  baking,  194 

commercial  electric  cookery,  198 

electric  cooker,  5S 

electric  cookery,  129,  135 

electric  heat,  51 

electric  range,  35,  143 

intermittent  system  water  heating,  182 

range  load,  15,  55 

ranges  in  apartments,  115 

rate,  simple,  21 

steaming  vegetables,  139 

storage  system  of  water  heating,  179 

water  heating  load,  178 


ADVERTISEMENTS 

Boston  Edison  car  card,  161 
Boston  Edison  range-apartment,  114 
Central  Illinois  billboard,  153 
Charlottesville    &     Albermarle    news- 
paper, 162 
"keying,"  169 

So.  California  Cooking  School,  111 
So.  California  range  book,  150 
Union  Electric  newspaper,  159 
Union  Electric  range-apartment,  117 
Utah  Pwr.  sales  letters,  154,  156,  160 


ADVERTISING 

appropriation,  164 
campaign,  152 
coin-in-slot  range,  163 
continuous,  153 
cooking  bureau,  109,  110 
copy,  167 
direct-by-mail,  155 
distributing  novelties,  163 
educational  work,  161 
exhibits,  162 
"jingle"  contest,  103 
"keying,"  169 
layout,  170 
mediums,  151,  166 

new  apartments  equipped  with  ranges, 
113,  116 


ADVERTISING— (con//nuc^ 

newspapers,  slides,  movies,  158 

parades,  162 

prize  essay  contest,  163 

publicity,  163 

piupose  of,  150 

re-prints  of  magazine  articles,  162 

sales  letters,  154,  155,  156,  157,  160 

testimonial  letters,  162 

Appliances,  using  on  range  socket,  144 
Appropriation,  advertising,  164 
Approved  electrical  fittings,  207 
Architects  and  builders,  education  of,  112 
service  bureau,  113 

AVERAGE 
bill,  41 

consumption,  41 
family,  size  of,  41 
rate,  41 


Billboard,  Central  Illinois,  153 
Bills,  monthly,  how  to  estimate,  41 

BREAD  BAKING 

advantages  of  commercial,  194 
development  of  commercial,  194 

Breads  and  pastries,  137 
Bogy,  setting  a,  78,  81 

BOSTON  EDISON 

apartment  house  ad,  114 
"jingle"  idea,  103 
street  car  card,  161 

Builders  and  architects,  education  of,  112 
Bulletin  for  company  employes,  83 
Burner,  why  name  was  changed,  40 
Buying  service,  173 

Byllesby  Company,  Customer  Ownership  ad, 
31 


209 


210 


INDEX 


California-Oregon  vs.  Grants  Pass,  rate  case, 

26 
Campaign  advertising,  152 

factors  in,  164 

CAMPAIGNS 

Boston  Edison,  102,  103 

fundamental  activities,  100 

importance  of,  100 

Minneapolis  "House  Next  Door,"  101 

planning,  164 

prize  essay  contest,  104,  163 

Vincennes,  Ind.  Ladies  Aid  Society,  97, 

103 

Capacities,  commercial  bread  baking  oven, 
196 

CARDS 

installation  application,  120,  121 
price,  delivery  and  inspection,  122 
prospect,  119,  120 
range,  record,  123 
salesman's  "score,"  119,  121 
trouble  order,  123,  124 

CENTRAL  ILLINOIS 
billboard,  153 

rate  case  vs.  Risser  &  Rollins,  Paxton, 
24 

CENTRAL  STATION 

and  the  contractor-dealer,  124 
responsibility  for  proper  installation,  59 

CHARTS 

importance  of  maintaining  voltage,  67 
how  hot  water  accumulates  at  top  of 

water  tank,  181 
range  load  for  one  week,  56 
time  required   to  heat  water  to   104" 

and  150**  F,  186,  187 
why  stores  lose  customers,  88 

Cleanliness  of  range,  144 
Cleveland  rebate-contract  form,  28 
Coal,  conservation  of,  17 
Coin-in-slot  range,  163 

COMMERCIAL 

bread  baking,  194 
cooking  apparatus,  194,  198,  201 
field,  development  of,  118 
installations,  195,  199,  201 
rates  and  revenue,  202 


Company  co-operation,  necessity  of,  72 
Comparison,  range  with  appliances,  18,  19 
Complaints,  handling,  174 
Conduction  of  heat,  definition  of,  51 

CONSERVATION 

made  possible,  17 
of  oven  heat,  143 

Construction  of  electric  range,  35 

CONSUMPTION 

annual,  of  appliances,  18 
annual,  of  range,  16,  18 
average,  41 

Continuous  advertising,  153 
Contractor-dealer's  place  in  range  n^erchan- 

dising,  124 
Control,  perfect,  143 
Convection  of  heat,  definition  of,  51 

COOKER,  ELECTRIC 
advantages  of,  53 
principle  of,  52 


COOKERY 

better  through  electrical  methods, 

135 
commercial,  198 
development  of  electric,  48 
electric,  first  practical  attempt,  48 
electric,  superiority  of,  50,  135 
scientific,  143 
why  used  instead  of  "cooking,"  50 

COOKING 

breads  and  pastries,  137 

bureau,  Minneapolis,  109 

meats,  140 

methods  of,  136 

methods  of  revolutionizing,  71 

rate,  19 

school,  St.  Louis,  108 

vegetables,  139 

without  a  rate,  116 

Coolness,  of  electric  cookery,  144 

COPY,  ADVERTISING 
censor  carefully,  172 
preparation  of,  167 

Cost,  operating,  41 
Current  service,  173 


129, 


INDEX 


211 


CUSTOMER  OWNERSHIP,  27,  30 
ad  of  H.  M.  Byllesby  Co.,  31 
one  company's  offer,  32 
the  Society's  position  on,  33 
view  of  St.  Louis  company,  33 


Data,  range,  from  100  central  stations.    In- 
sert folder  back  of  hook.' 

Decisions,  Rate,  of  Public  Service  Commis- 
sions, 24 
Definitions.     Insert  folder  hack  of  hook 
Demand  factor,  55 

DEMONSTRATIONS 
home,  175 
how  to  stage,  97 
on  truck,  101 

DEMONSTRATORS 
duties,  84 
qualifications,  91 

DEVELOPMENT 

commercial  field,  118 

cooking  devices,  34 

domestic  field,  108 

domestic  science  field,  116 

electric  cookery,  48 

kitchen  equipment,  42 

load,  15,  and  insert  folder  back  of  book 

sales  of  commercial  equipment,  107 

Direct-by-mail  literature,  155       • 

DISPLAYS 

salesroom,  94 
show  windows,  95 
variety  of,  94 

Distribution  system,  mapping,  81 

DIVERSITY  FACTOR,  55 

in   100  central  stations.     Insert  folder 
hack  of  book' 

Domestic  field,  development  of,  108 
Domestic  science  field,  116 


Earnings,  15,  18,  27 

Edison  Elect.   Ilium.   Co.,  range-apartment 

ad,  114 

"jingle"  idea,  103 

street  car  card,  161 


Editorial  aid,  electric  cookery,  by  Society,  207 
Educational  advertising,  161 

EDUCATION  OF 

builders  and  architects,  112 
demonstrators,  84,  97 
foreign  servants,  148 
salesmen,  83 
service  department  men,  85,  174 

Exhibits,  161 

EXTENSIONS 

methods  of  financing,  27 

Pacific  Pwr.  &  Lt.  requirement  before 

building,  29 


FACTORS 

in  campaign,  164 
in  installation,  58 
in  selling  to  women,  132 

Family,  average  size  of,  41 
Feature  advertising,  162 

Financial  co-operation  of  customers  on  ex- 
tensions, 30 

Financing  extensions,  27 

Follow-up  work,  on  prospects,  105 

Food,  better  cooked,  135 

FORMS,  office  and  warehouse,  119 

Foreign  servants,  teaching,  148 

Frame,  grounding,  65 

Fundamental  points  in  writing  advertising, 
167 

Fusing,  individual,  37 

Fuse,  say  "melted/*  not  "burned-out,"  208 


G 


Good  Housekeeping's  endorsement  of  electric 

cookery,  142 
Grounding  frame,  65 


H 

HEAT 

comparison  with  other  methods,  52 
electric,  advantages  of,  51 
how  generated,  51 
methods  of  measuring,  52 

HEATERS.  WATER,  178 


212 


INDEX 


Heating,  kitchen  obstacle  overcome  by  auxil- 
iary heater,  147 
Home  demonstrations,  175 
Homemaking,  modem,  42 


Illinois    Public    Service    Commission's    rate 

decision,  24 
Individuality  of  range,  35 
Inside-circulation  type  water  heater,  188 

INSTALLATION 

application  card,  120,  121 

central  station's  responsibility,  59 

commercial,  195,  199,  201 

cost  to  central  station,  no  including 
plant  capacity.  Insert  folder  back  of 
hoo\ 

cost  to  customer.  Insert  folder  hac\  of 
book 

double  throw  switches  for  water  heater, 
65 

factors  in,  58 

grounding  frame,  65 

importance  of  maintaining  voltage,  67 

main  line  switches,  62 

master  switch,  65 

meter  loops,  62 

meter  sizes,  69 

number  of  ranges  installed  in  100  cen- 
tral stations.  Insert  folder  back  of 
book 

planning  commercial,  201 

range  circuits,  63 

service,  173 

service  connections,  60 

standard  units,  59 

testing  the  range,  70 

transformer  capacities,  69 

trial,  76 

voltage  recommendations,  66 

wiring  diagram,  61 

wiring  specifications,  60 

wiring  table,  64 

Insulation  of  water  heater,  importance,  191 
Insurance  requirements,  206 
Introductory  offers,  77 

INVESTMENT 

comparative,  16 

how  to  pro-rate,  54 

in  transmission  lines,  27 

in  station  equipment,  27 

necessary,  54 

value  of  utility,  30 


J 
K 

"Keying"  an  advertisement,  169 

KILOWATT-HOUR  per  range  per  annum. 
Insert  folder  back  of  book' 

KITCHEN 

complete  commercial  electric,  195,  199, 
201 

modem  of  1919,  43 

why  it  needs  electric  range,  42 
Kitchenette  ranges,  45,  46,  47 


Layout,  advertising,  170 
Letters,  testimonial,  162 

LOAD 

advantages  of,  15,  54,  55 
apartment,  curve  for  one  week,  56 
average   conditions   of,    54   and    insert 

folder  back  of  book- 
characteristics  of,  55 
demand  and  diversity  factor^  55 
development  of,  15 
kilowatt  of  100  central  stations.    Insert 

folder  back  of  book 
kitchenette  range,  46 
two  examples  of,  57 
water  heating,  178 

Losses  which  occur  when  cooking  vegetables, 
139 

M 

Magazine  articles,  re-prints  of,  162 
Mahoning  &s  Shenango  stock-selling  plan,  32 

MAIN  LINE  SWITCHES,  how  to  wire,  62 

Maintenance  service,  173 
Market,  range,  how  to  analyze,  79 
Meat,  why  electrically  cooked  is  better,  140 
Mediums,  advertising,  151,  166 

MERCHANDISING  METHODS 
architects  and  builders,  112 
campaigns,  100,  164 
commercial  field,  118 
compensation  of  salespeople,  91 
contractor-dealer's  position,  124 
cooking  without  a  rate,  116 


INDEX 


213 


MERCHANDISING  METHODS— 
{continued) 

co-operation  of  entire  company,  72 
demonstrator's  duties,  84 
demonstrator's  qualifications,  91 
disparaging  other  makes,  93 
displays,  94 
domestic  field,  108 
domestic  science  field,  116 
demonstrations,  97 
energizing  salesmen,  80 
follow-up  work,  105 
general  basic  factors,  71 
introductory  offers,  77 
merchandising  throughout  a  territory, 

85 
office  and  warehouse  forms,  119 
policies,  74,  77 
price  maintenance,  73 
prospects,  105 
range  and  parts'  stock,  92 
ranges  in  apartments,  115 
revolutionizing  cooking  methods,  71 
sales  dept.  organization,  78 
sales  development,  107 
sales  ideas,  101 
sales  manager's  position,  79 
salesmen's  qualifications,  87 
salesmen's  work,  83 
salesroom  displays,  94 
selecting  types,  92 
selling  every  "electrical"  man,  73 
service  bureau  for  architects,  114 
service  dept.  organization,  85 
service  dept.  work,  85 
service  of  the  Society,  208 
show  windows,  95 
time  payments,  75 
trial  installations,  76 
why  stores  lose  customers,  88 

METER 

loops,  62 

number     installed     by     100     central 

stations.    Insert  folder  hack,  of  book- 
sizes,  69 

METHODS 

advertising,  151,  166 
cooking,  136 
merchandising,  71 


Milwaukee-Blackstone 
curve,  56 


apartments,      load 


MINNEAPOLIS 

cooking  bureau  folder,  109 
"House-next-door**  campaign, 
recipe  service  idea,  109 

Movies,  advertising,  158 


101 


N 

National  Board  of  Fire  Underwriters,  207 
National  Electrical  Code,  206 

NEWSPAPER 

advertising,  158 

advertisement,  Boston,  114 

Charlottesville,  Va.,  162 
St.  Louis,  159 

NOMENCLATURE  of  range  parts,  203 

Northern  States  Pwr.  Co.  stock-selling  win- 
dow, 27 
Novelties,  distributing,  163 


Obstacles,  how  to  overcome  sales,  145 

Office  and  warehouse  forms,  119 

OPERATING 

conditions,     actual,     in     100     central 
stations  today.    Insert  folder  back  of 
book' 
cost,  governing  factors,  41 

low  when  all  factors  considered, 
145 

Operation,  economy  of  range,  42 
simplicity  of  range,  143 

Oregon  Public  Service  Commission's  ruling, 
26 

ORGANIZATION 

sales  department,  78 
service  department,  85 

Outside-circulation  type  water  heater,   179, 
186 

OVEN 

advantages  of  commercial,  196 
capacities  of  commercial,  196 
commercial  bread  baking,  194 
conservation  of  heat,  143 
description  of  domestic,  38 
pointers  for  new  users,  176 


Pastries  and  breads,  137 
Payments,  time,  75 
Planning  campaigns,  164 

commercial  installations,  201 


214 


INDEX 


Pointers  for  service  men,  174 
Policy  in  relation  to  contractor-dealer,  127 
Portland  service  bureau  for  architects,  114 
Position  of  contractor-dealer,  124 
Practicability  of  range,  34 

PRICE 

comparison  of  old  and  new  devices,  134 
discussion,  39 
justify  it  to  yourself,  131 
maintenance,  73 
not  important  in  sale,  134 
obstacle  eliminated  by  installment  pay- 
ment plan,  145 

Price,  Delivery  and  Inspection  Card,  122 
Prize  essay  contests,  104,  163 

PROGRESS 

in  homemaking,  42 

in  commercial  cooking,  198 

Prospect  Cards,  119,  120 

Prospects,  classification  of,  105 

Publicity,  importance  of,  163 

Public  Service  Commission,  rulings  on  rates, 

24 
Purpose  of  advertising,  150 


QUALIFICATIONS 

of  demonstrators,  91 
of  salesmen,  87 


Radiation  of  heat,  definition  of,  51 

RANGE 

advantages  of,  34,   143 

cabinet  type,  36,  37 

circuits,  wiring  of,  63 

construction,  general,  35 

consumption,  average,  16,  18,  41 

data  from  100  central  stations.  Insert 

folder  hack,  of  book. 
economy  of,  42 
elevated-oven  type,  38 
ideal  for  apartments,  115 
individuality  of,  35 
its  place  in  the  home,  42 
kitchenette,  45,  46,  47 
low-oven  type,  38 


RANGE—  {continued) 

merchandising  by  contractor-dealer,  124 
monthly  bill,  how  to  estimate,  41 
number  installed  by  100  central  stations 

49  and  insert  folder  back  of  book 
operating  cost,  41 
oven,  description  of,  38 
parts,  standardized  names  of,  203 
practicability,  34 
price,  discussion,  39 
record  card,  123 
repair  parts'  stock,  93 
resistance  wire,  36 
situation   today.    Insert  folder   back   of 

book 
stock  necessary,  92 
supremacy  of,  35 
test,  how  to,  70 
thermostatically-controlled,  38 
types  of,  36,  37,  38,  45,  46,  47 
types  to  choose,  92 
units,  surface,  39 
why  it  is  purchased,  44 
why  it  is  not  a  luxury,  44 
wiring  diagram,  61 

RATE 

advantages  of  a  simple,  2 1 

average,  41 

advisability  of  a  low,  20 

central  station  man's  opinion  of,  22 

commercial  cookery,  202 

cooking  v^dthout  a,  116 

factors  in  determining,  22 

general  discussion  on,  19 

how  some  central  stations  have  low- 
ered, 20 

justification  of,  24 

monthly  minimum,  22 

established  by  100  central  stations. 
Insert  folder  back  of  book 

Public  Service  Commission's  rulings,  24 

statistics,  208  and  insert  folder  back  of 
book 

various  forms  of,  21 

Rebate-contract  form,  Cleveland,  28 

Salt  Lake  City,  30 
Recipe  service  idea,  Minneapolis,  109 
Repair  parts'  stock,  93 
Requirements,  insurance,  206 

REVENUE 

commercial  cooking  load,  202 
range  compared  with  appliances,  18 
Pacific  Power  fie  Light  Co.,  27 
value  of,  15,  24 
water  heater,  178 

Roasting,  tests,  commercial,  200 


INDEX 


215 


Safety  of  range,  144 
Salary,  salesmen's,  91 

SALES 

Boston  *'jingle'*  contest,  103 

cost,  how  to  distribute,  81 

department  organization,  78 

development,  107 

ideas,  practical,  101 

inducements,  77 

large  central  station,  49  and  insert  back 

of  book 
Minneapolis  magazine  postcard,  102 
plans,  laying,  81 

Sales  letters,  154,  155,  156,  157,  160 
Sales  manager's  position,  79 

SALESMANSHIP 

avoid  negatives,  134 
avoid  technicalities,  133 
feature  one  point,  131 
idea,  not  the  range,  129 
price  comparison  of  old  and  new  de- 
vices, 134 
price  not  important  in  sale,  134 
why  women  buy,  132 

SALESMEN 

concentrate  on  range  selling,  77 

how  to  energize,  80 

"score"  card,  119,  121 

should  not  disparage  other  makes,  93 

their  importance,  87 

their  qualifications,  87 

their  work,  83 

what  they  should  know,  128-135 

Salesroom  display,  94 

SALESWORK 

in  commercial  field,  194 

with  architects  and  builders,  112 

Scale  formation  in  water  heaters,  192 
Scenario  contest,  162 
Science  supersedes  guessing,  135 
Secondary  distribution  requirements,  66 


SECURITIES 

methods  of  selling  to  customers,  27 
Mahoning  8b  Shenango  Rwy.  &  Lt.  Co., 
32 


SELLING 

electric  cooking  idea,  128 

every  electrical  man,  73 

other  appliances,  177 

points,  locating  "sales  target,"  128 

points,  to  use,  129 — those  NOT  to  use, 

130 
policies,  73 

ranges  throughout  territory,  85 
satisfaction,  78 

SERVICE 

advantages  of  range,  17 
connections,  how  to  wire,  60 
department  organization,  81 
better  than  "trouble"  and  "repair," 

59 
merchandising.  Society's,  208 
range.  Society's,  207 
real  range,  173 

SIZES 

meter,  69 
transformer,  69 
wire,  64 

Slides,  advertising,  158 

Slower  operation,  obstacle  overcome,  146 

SPECIFICATIONS,  WIRING,  60 

Society's  range  service,  207 

Socket,  using  appliances  on  range,  144 

SOUTHERN  CALIFORNIA  cooking  school 
ad,  111 
range  book,  150 
Standardized  names  of  range  parts,  203 
Steaming  vegetables,  advantages,  139 
Street  car  card,  Boston  Edison,  161 
Supremacy  of  range,  35 
Surface  units,  pointers  for  new  users,  177 

SWITCH 

master,  installation  of,  61,  65 
double  throw  for  water  heater,  61,  65 


Teaching  foreign  servants,  148 
Territory,  merchandising  throughout,  85 
Test,  commercial  roasting,  200 
Testimonial  letters,  162 
Texas  method  ol  .  ^ergizing  salesmen,  80 
Tomorrow's  merchandising,  125 


216 


INDEX 


TRANSFORMER  CAPACITIES,  69 

Trial  installations,  76 
Trouble  order,  123,  124 
Truck  demonstration  idea,  101 

TYPES  OF  RANGES,  36,  37,  38,  45,  46,  47 


U 

UNION  ELECTRIC 

cooking  school,  108 
newspaper  ad,  159 
range-apartment  ad,  117 
view  of  customer  ownership,  33 

UNITS 

oven,  39 

pointers  for  new  users,  177 
reason  for  name,  40 
standard  wiring  of,  59 
surface,  description  of,  39 

UTAH  POWER 

cooking  school,  98 
re-bate  contract  form,  30 
sales  letters,  154,  156,  157,  160 

Underwriters  Laboratories,  207 


VEGETABLES 

how  cooked,  139 

loss  which  occurs  in  boiling  and  steam- 
ing edible  portions,  139 

Vincennes,  Ind.  Ladies  Aid  Society  campaign, 
97,  103 

VOLTAGE 

drops,  66 

importance  of  maintaining,  67 

recommendations,  66 

w 

Warehouse  and  office  forms,  119 
Washington   Water   Power's   water   heating 
business,  193 


WATER  HEATERS,  178 

"clamp-on**  type,  189,  190 

double-throw  switch,  65 

heat  insulation  of,  191 

how  hot  water  accumulates  at  top  of 

tank,  181 
intermittent  system,  182 
inside-circulation  type,  188 
outside-circulation  type,  179,  186 
scale  formation  in,  192 
storage  system,  179 


WATER  HEATING  LOAD,  178 

development  in  one  central  station,  193 

revenue,  178 
Water  heating  obstacle  overcome  by  water 

heating  rate,  148 
Why  stores  lose  customers,  88 
Why  women  buy,  132 
Window  displays,  95 
Wire,  resistance,  36 


WIRING 

chart  showing  importance  of  main- 
taining voltage,  67 

diagram,  61. 

double-throw  switch  for  water  heaters, 
65 

grounding  frame,  65 

main  line  switches,  meter  loops,  62 

master  switch,  65 

meter  sizes,  69 

range  circuits,  63 

recommendations,  66 

service  connections,  60 

specifications,  60 

table  of  wire  sizes,  64 

transformer  capacities,   69 

voltage,  66 

WORK 

demonstrators,  84 
following-up  prospects,  105 
sales  manager's,  79 
salesmen,  83 
service  department,  85 

Writing  advertising  copy,  167 


4i 

II 


£l 


Electric  Range  Data  from  100  Central  Stations 


Copyrighted  1919  by  The  Society  for  Electrical  Development,  Inc 


FUNDAMENTAL  FACTS 

Range  Situation  Today 

interest  and   activity   in  electric   range  merchandising. 


:d  and  total  population  re 


~       J  El   i  1    Ii  ll   ]  i  1  1  !i  ii  il  i : 

I  i 

Abingto„.M.» El.c.Ll.iPr.Co.ofAbiagton.           7            22.47            2,689     11.7             3.597             36               108     3     - , .  "        4,000                                                   4.5 

$1.40 

Albuiy.Or. Orsjon  Power  Co 14            25.300            2,500     10                4,000             82               410     3         2               1,200     JO         $40           ,„.V.V,^    2.9 

An.cond.,  Mom              An.cond.  Copper  Mining  Co 2            15.000            2,288     15.2            2,854             80              3 

Avoc.low. Red  Oak  EU=.  Co          .                              I              1.870               380     20                    600             40                                                                Good      25              7.S            4 

r° 

B.ker,  Ore Eastern  Oregon  Lt.  &  Pr.  Co    .  -          15            25.000            4.000     16                3.950             60               300     5                                                                                    3 

Bend.Or..- Bend  Water.  U.  &  Pr.  Co -          i              5,500               800     14.5                900             60               350     5.S      2              l.SOO     25- .        75            10  n»,      2.66 

2.00 

Benton  Harbor.  Mich     Benton  H.r..  St.  J.  Ry.&L.  Co         10            35.000            4.700     13.4             5.500             4S                200     4.2                      l,S0OV,„G»d                       5           4.7 
Bluefield.W.Va.      '       Appalachian  Power  Co    ^        7               U            41.650            5.132     12.3            6.463            106                572     5.4                      1.670               60  100       10  30        3 

1:^5 

C».yen„e.W.o                Cheyenne  Lt..   Fue,  i  Pr.  Co  ,    .        1            .5.000            2.000,3.3             2.500             50 

Cottage  Gro.e,  Ore         Cottage  Grove  Eleo.  Co 1              3.000               300     ,0                                      50                                                                                                                3 

^'i;:r^owa  oIImI^^^c"- -    "r-'X                  ""^r'  ""     "   "  i 

Dulu.h.Minn                    Duluth  Edison  Elec.  Co                           1          100,000          16.897      16.9                                  70                                                                                                  ....        2,4        ' 

Ea-..w;>;m-„u.h.Mass-We7;,^uthT:fr&p-r7Co--       '           1             15,000            1.900     12.6                        "           35  "            1  Ul     ..                          LU.O                   25          To 7 

El[^sbuTg.W^,Sr    -Munl^aTLigh.PlI^it----        7          i"          87000               852-|0.6             1.210             35                140     .<.(,      2               ,.46.,                   60          TtTS^O  T 

F-  '\fs 

Eureka.  Kan                      Eureka  Elec.  &  Ice  C,                               ,               3,100                530     23                    675             32                ,25     .,          ,.6            ,,000                    ,8                            3.2 
Faribault.  Minn                Nortliern  States  Pr.  Co                             28             25,600             4,500      ,7.5              5.700               30                 ,35      .1.5       2.-1                800                                      ,0              4 
Fergus  Fall.,  Minn           Municipal  Plan.        -                          7          ,                S.OOO             ,.450,8-                                  ,65                                                                                                                            2.3 

■'"■ 

Fr,sno,C.I      San  Joaquin  Lt.  &  Pr.  Co.                    74          250,000           20.169       8              3,^922            ,30               800     5.35                    ,.500     30',      100                            3.5 

Clendive,  Mont.         .TrClendive  Heat.  Lt.&Pr.  Co         "         2              5.500               500       9                                      70                                                                                                   ....       4 

LIO 

Gt.Barrington.Ma....Gt.BarringtonElec.Lt.Co                    5            ,0,000            1,394      ,3.9             1,528             4,                ,68     4          ,                   975  20-25,125             2S           4 

i — T 

i — .".. 

•         i.es 

;       r 

Hastins.,N.b                   Municipal  Elec.  Lt.  Plant    1              2.000            2,113     17.6            2.618             32                                                     ,.200     30',        42.50        ,2            2.7 

.              1.45 

[-           *60 

jrsit'lw    ^lS::-^£::h       -  ;    'izi    ' ^  42'    "'5    4"     ,920        ,.44„      7^---^^ — 

•           l>6 

Lake  Mills    Wis                Municipal  Lt    Plan.                                   1               2  000               370     ,8.5                422             40                ,60     5.2      2.5            ,.500  o^'r'",    29             2S           3.5 

i       T 

Lol  Aneeles.  CaT             Southern  CaL  Edison  Co                      103       1.2501000        144.000     1,5         ,75,000        2,920          ,1,600     5            .62          1,450     ,2',        ,7.90       ,5            3.5 

c     .68.T7J5 

.     ~:m- 

Lj^s.KliT    ^               UnitedTVateTrCa.  &  Elec;  Co                 ,                2,500                 450-^,8                      575              40                                                                                          ,5                 7.50       3.15 

McPhcrsorv  ICan          _Muniopol  Elec.  Plant                               1               5,000               700     ,4                   966             43               210     5                          ,,600                 12-25           8-25      3,4 

\          ' 

Miami,  Fla                         Miami  Elec.  Lt.  &  Pr.  Co                  "      6            35,000            4,500     13                4,500           120               550     4.6      2                1,500,2'/,      10             40           4,3 
Mil„.ukee,Wi. Milwaukee  Elec.  Ry.  &  Lt.  Co     ..   ^24          450,000          3,,300       7              44,586           800            4,800     6         4                ,,400,0.,        63             40           2.3 

c               .75 

Mi„n.apoll.,Minn,    ..Minneapoli.G.n.Elei.Co.,,    ..      2-0          4007000          40,000     10              51,000           762            3,8,0     5                          ,,800                   25           Free        3.2 

I             L76 

Norwich.  Conn.                Municipal  Gas  &  Elec.  Co 3            30.000            2.856       9.5             3.0,7             40               ,75     4.4                                                                     5.80      4 

:             1*25 

li'Hfl.iji     IrllC'cFcr^"  ■-     1   'iii    ilir    I'^i   ,'E    "° '       '■'"""   '°        4 

:    -i 

Ri,er.id..  Cal Municlp-.rLt.Pl.nl..     1            ,6,000            4,000     25                4,815             39                                                    2,440   Good                      22.50        3 

Ri.er.id..  C.1 So.  Sierra  Pr.  Co.  (C.L  Di».) 11        -26.-735            2.395       9                3,937             58               290     5                          1.440                                                   3.24        . 

Rockford.lll .RockfordElec.Co j—       60,000            7,500     12.5             9.500             45               225     5                                        15' ,                                       2.7 

St.Loui.,Mo-               .Union  Elec.  Lt.-ft  Pr.  Co.         -;        29-      955,000          60,818       6.4           95,206        1.164            5.820     5                          1,344                                 A.  Co..     2.25 

:    k 

Schen.c.ad,.N.  Y          SchcncC.dv  Illun,i„a.,n8  Co               8          120.000          19.313     16              19,789             37                174     4.7      ..                1,200                   80             30            3 

Sterlln,,  Colo                      S.erllnj  Cons.  Elec.  Co                                1                5,000                 642      12.8                  642               90                 360     4            .83                        V,,,  H.,b     IS              10             4.5 
Ta°om°."w'^^l,'°"'     ""     Mu'nkipal'pu^.    "            "■"^°         ']          lOo'.OOO          10,000     10              23',000           300                         "'                         2,400  33  1-3',                   25            1 

i;™ 

Washington,  D^C            Potomac  Elec.  Power  Co                        14          420,000          19,467       4.64         34,908           156               580     3.7                       1,208                                   SO           3.5 

WflirironTNrS              -Tvr^cip'.l'El'~.  U.  PUnTf--  ^        -1      -      67000            LlOO     18.3            2,l6o           102               300     3    "  1              "l,'200C.L>d      40             12            4 
Wilmington,  Dd    WiinU-gton  t  Phil..  Tr.  Ci, Jl          175.000          10.000       5.7           12.000           200               720     3.6     2                            16.8',      12.06      15-20       J_         . 

105 

ToUl. 1,802    11,760,489    1,101,275                                      26,180        lia.182                                                                                          3  25    "Il 

N*:;-  *'ii? 

LIBRARY  OF  CONGRESS 


0  014  486  500  5 


t 


