LIBRARY  OF  CONGRESS, 

■   

!        ■  Shell, 3842^ 

 —   ■ 

UNITED  STATES  OF  AMERICA. 


THE 

0 


"I 


CONTAINING  A  LARGE  COLLECTION  OF 


Recipes  for  domestic  Cookery,  Cooking  for  the  Sick, 
Care  of  Wardrobe,  Laundry  and  House  Plants, 
Bills  of  Fare  for  Public  and  Private  Parties, 
Rules  governing  Social  Entertainments, 
and  other  valuable  information. 


We  may  Ike  without  Poetry,  Music  and  Art, 

We  may  live  without  conscience,  and-  live  without  heart, 

We  may  live  without  friends,  we  may  Mr-  without  books, 

But  civilized  man  cannot  live  without  6*>aks. 

He  may  live  without  books — what  is  knowledge  but  grieving  f 

He  may  live  without  hope — what  is  Jiope  but  deceiving  f 

He  may  live  without  love — what  is  past-ion  but  pining  t 

But  where  is  the  man  that  can  live  'without  dining  I 

— Owen  Merideth. 


COMPILED  AND  ARRANGED  BY 

LAURA  C.  STERRETT, 

ERIE,    P  A  . 


ERIE,  PA. : 

WM.  P.  ATKINSON'S  STEAM  FEINTING  HOUSE, 

1881. 


Entered  acccording  to  Act  of  Congress  in  the  year  1881,  by 
LAURA  C.  STERRETT, 
In  the  Office  of  the  Librarian  of  Congress,  at  Washington.  D.  C. 


ORDER  OF  DEPARTMENTS. 


Page. 

SOUPS.   09 

FISH   15 

SHELL-FISH   20 

MEATS   23 

GAME   35 

POULTRY   39 

SALADS   45 

CATSUPS  AND  SAUCES   52 

EGGS  AND  OMELETS   56 

VEGETABLES   61 

BREAD-MAKING   74 

YEAST   82 

BREAKFAST  AND  TEA  CAKES   .  85 

CAKES...   94 

PASTRY  120 

PUDDINGS  AND  SAUCES  128 

DESSERTS  142 

ICES  AND  ICE  CREAMS  154 

PRESERVES,  JELLIES  AND  JAMS  159 

CANNING  FRUITS  109 

FRUITS  172 

PICKLES  176 

CANDIES,  FROSTING,  &C  188 

DRINKS  193 

FOOD  FOR  THE  SICK  199 

HINTS  FOR  CARE  OF  THE  SICK  203 

HINTS  FOR  THE  WELL  212 

THE  HOUSEHOLD  217 

THE  WARDROBE  223 

THE  LAUNDRY  .  228 

HOUSE  PLANTS  AND  FLOWERS  234 

MISCELLANEOUS  '  239 

SOCIAL  ENTERTAINMENTS. . ...  243 

BILLS  OF  FARE  252 


v 


PREFACE. 


A  belief  that  I  have  collected,  from  various  reliable  sources, 
enough  that  is  new  and  useful  to  justify  the  undertaking,  is 
my  excuse  for  issuing  "The  Erie  Cook  Book."  To  my  own 
knowledge  of  the  culinary  art,  gained  by  long  experience  in 
catering  to  the  public  tastes,  I  have,  through  the  kindness  of 
man}T  lady  friends,  been  enabled  to  add  the  valuable  results 
of  the  experience  of  others.  To  these  I  take  this  opportunity' 
of  returning  my  warmest  thanks,  in  which  I  will  be  joined, 
doubtless,  by  those  of  my  readers  who  may  have  occasion  to 
try  any  of  their  recipes. 

Most  of  the  recipes  in  this  book  have  been  tested  by  nryself 
or  friends;  the  others  have  been  compiled  from  known  and 
reliable  sources,  and  I  feel  safe  in  saying  that  no  one  will  be 
disappointed  in  any  of  them. 

Some  may  petulantly  ask,  "  What  is  the  need  of  another 
Cook  Book  ?"  Let  such  take  the  Geography  and  maps  the}' 
used  in  their  school  days,  and  try  to  get  a  correct  knowledge 
of  the  United  States  of  to-day,  and  they  will  probably  learn 
that  things  have  changed  somewhat.  Then  let  the  sneerer 
take  his  or  her  mother  (a  famous  cook  in  her  day)  and  dine 
at  a  good  modern  hotel  or  restaurant,  and  another  idea  of 
progress  will  be  imbibed  along  with  novel  and  delicious  com- 
binations of  well  known  ingredients.  Depend  upon  it,  many 
"another  Cook  Book"  will  be  printed  and  studied  before  the 
art  of  cooking  is  perfected,  or  the  new  combinations  and  mate- 
rials furnished  by  the  chemist  and  agriculturist  are  exhausted. 

Mrs.  Jos.  R.  Sterrett. 

Erie,  Penn'a,  April,  1881. 


WEIGHTS  AND  MEASURES. 


1  quart  sifted  flour,  well  heaped,  weighs  1  lb. 

3  coffee-cups  sifted  flour,  level,  weigh  1  lb. 

4  tea-cups  sifted  flour,  level,  weigh  1  lb. 
1  quart  unsifted  flour  weighs  1  lb.  1  oz. 

1  quart  sifted  Indian  meal  weighs  1  lb.  4loz. 

1  pint  soft  butter,  well  packed,  weighs  L,lb. 

2  tea-cups  soft  butter,  well  packed,  weigh  1  lb. 
\Yi  pints  powdered  sugar  weigh  1  lb. 

2  coffee-cups  powdered  sugar,  level,  weigh  1  lb. 
2S4  tea-cups  powdered  sugar,  level,  weigh  1  lb. 

1  pint  granulated  sugar,  heaped,  weighs  14  oz. 

1 %  coffee-cups  granulated  sugar,  level,  weigh  1  lb. 

2  tea-cups  granulated  sugar,  level,  weigh  1  lb. 

1  pint  coffee  "A"  sugar  weighs  12  oz. 

1%  coffee-cups  coffee  "A"  sugar,  level,  weigh  1  lb. 

2  tea-cups  coffee  "A"  sugar,  well  heaped,  weigh  1  lb. 
1  pint  best  brown  sugar  weighs  13  oz. 

\%  coffee-cups  best  brown  sugar,  level,  weigh  1  lb. 
■1Y2  tea-cups  best  brown  sugar,  level,  weigh  lib. 
2%  coffee-cups  Indian  meal,  level,  equal  1  qr. 
Z}i  tea-cups  Indian  meal,  level,  equal  1  qt. 

1  table-spoon  granulated  coffee  "'A"  or  best  brown  sugar,  well  heaped,  equals  1  oz. 

2  table-spoons,  well  rounded,  of  powdered  sugar  or  flour  weigh  1  oz. 

1  table-spoon,  well  rounded,  of  soft  butter  weighs  1  oz. 
Soft  butter  size  of  an  egg  weighs  2  oz. 

7  table-spoons  granulated  sugar,  heaping,  equal  1  tea-cup. 
6  table-spoons  sifted  flour  or  meal,  heaping,  equal  1  tea-cup. 
4  table-spoons  soft  butter,  well  heaped,  equal  1  tea-cup. 

2  tea-spoons,  heaping,  of  flour,  sugar  or  meal,  equal  1  heaping  table-spoon. 

LIQUIDS. 

1  pint  contains  16  fluid  ounces,  or  4  gills. 
1  ounce  contains  S  fluid  drachms,  or  J£  gill. 
1  table-spoon  contains  about  %  fluid  ounce. 
1  tea-spoon  contains  about  1  fluid  drachm. 

A  teaspoon  (for  brevity,  tea-spoon  is  used  for  tea-spoonful  in  the  recipes  of  this 
book,)  is  equal  in  volume  to  45  drops  of  pure  water  (distilled)  at  60  deg.,  Fah. 
Tea-spoons  vary  so  much  in  size  that  there  a  wide  margin  of  difference  in  con- 
taining capacity. 

4  tea-spoonfuls  equal  1  table-spoon,  or  yz  fluid  oz. 

16  table-spoonfuls  equal  %  pint. 

1  wine-glass  full  (common  size)  equals  4  table-spoons,  or  2  fluid  oz. 

1  tea-cupful  equals  S  fluid  oz.  or  2  gills. 
4  tea-cupfuls  equal  1  qt. 

A  common-sized  tumbler  holds  about  y2  pint. 

AVOIRDUPOIS  WEIGHT. 

16  drachms  (dr  )  make  1  ounce  (oz  ) 

16  ounces  make  1  pound  (lb.) 

25  pounds  make  1  quarter  (qr.) 

4  quarters  make  1  hundred  weight  (cwt.) 

20  hundred  weight  make  1  ton  (T.) 

LIQUID  MEASURE. 

4  gills  (gl.)  make  1  pint  (pt.) 

2  pints  make  1  quart  (qt.) 

4  quarts  make  1  gallon  (gal.) 


HOUSEKEEPING. 


In  order  to  keep  house  acceptably  one  must  be  endowed 
with  method,  judgment  and  self-control;  but  as  these  rarely 
meet  in  the  same  person,  many  houses  are  conducted  solely 
by  means  of  one  or  the  other,  while  many  more  are  run  at  the 
expense  of  neither,  and  the  result  is  a  hand-to-mouth  kind  of 
housekeeping,  creditable  to  nobody,  affording  anxiety  to  all 
and  pleasure  to  none. 

To  be  a  good  housekeeper  should  be  the  aim  of  eveiy  oue 
who  has  a  house  to  keep,  be  it  palace  or  cottage;  and  this  does 
not  merely  include  living  in  a  state  of  constant  warfare  with 
dust  which  lies  in  ambush  in  every  crack  and  cranny,  nor  in  pre- 
serving the  paint  unspotted,  the  glass  unclouded,  the  closet  in 
perfect  order,  and  the  floors  in  such  condition  that  "  one  could 
eat  off  them,"  as  the  saying  goes.  All  this  may  be  accom- 
plished and  }*et  the  house  answer  only  the  description  of  a 
well  kept  inn.  The  good  housekeeper  must  still  call  herself 
an  unprofitable  servant  unless  she  has  not  only  attended  to 
the  bodily  requirements — not  only  seen  to  it  that  the  meals 
shall  be  well  cooked  and  served,  that  the  apartments  shall  be 
aired,  lighted  and  warmed,  that  the  servants  shall  be  neat  and 
civil — but  that  the  eyes  shall  be  delighted  as  well  as  the  pal- 
ate, the  mind  be  nourished  as  well  as  the  body,  that  each  indi- 
vidual shall  dwell  at  ease,  without  dread  of  a  possible  hitch  in 
the  household  machinery,  if  he  fails  to  pursue  a  prescribed 
and  wearisome  routine.  Who  has  not  seen  people  moving 
in  their  own  houses  as  if  afraid  of  doing  some  mischief,  who 
have  the  air  of  being  about  as  much  at  home  as  uninvited 
guests;  children  who  stood  in  awe  of  the  best  parlor;  sons 
who  felt  so  ill  at  ease  under  the  parental  roof-tree  that  they 


8 


made  haste  to  exchange  it  for  the  happy-go-lucky  atmosphere 
of  the  billiard  saloon  ? 

Surely  housekeeping  as  well  as  the  Sabbath  was  made  for 
man,  and  not  the  reverse,  as  many  seem  to  supect.  Let  there 
be  nothing  iu  the  house  too  good  for  human  nature's  daily 
enjoj'ment,  if  it  is  going  to  be  a  stumbling-block  to  an}T;  let  us 
have  nothing  under  glass  cases,  but  everything  for  use  and 
profit,  remembering  that  it  is  quite  as  important  to  provide 
pleasure  for  the  household  as  food  and  clothing.  Let  us  not 
live  in  such  dread  of  "a  week's  warning"  that  we  dare  not 
ask  a  friend  to  dine  or  order  a  roast  for  wash-day,  nor  allow 
ourselves  to  be  disturbed  b}T  a  morsel  of  dust,  if  we  keep  house 
for  the  purpose  of  happiness  and  comfort. 


LAURA  C.  STERRETT'S  COOK  BOOK. 


SOUPS. 


O  make  nutritious,  healthful  and   palatable  soup,  with 


*  flavors  properly  commingled,  is  an  art  which  requires 
study  and  practice,  but  it  is  surprising  from  what  a  scant 
allotment  of  material  a  delicate  and  appetizing  dish  may  be 
produced.  The  base  of  soup  should  always  be  lean  uncooked 
meat,  to  which  may  be  added  chicken,  turkey,  beef,  or  mutton 
bones,  well  broken  up.  To  four  pounds  of  lean  beef  (the  infe- 
rior parts  are  quite  as  good  for  this  purpose),  put  five  quarts 
of  cold  water  (soft  is  best),  wash  the  meat  and  put  it  in  the 
water  without  salt;  let  it  come  slowly  to  boiling  point,  and 
then  skim  well,  set  it  back  and  let  it  simmer  gently  for  six  or 
eight  hours  until  the  meat  is  in  rags;  rapid  boiling  hardens 
the  fiber  of  the  meat  and  the  savory  flavor  escapes  with  the 
steam;  add  a  little  pepper  and  salt,  strain  into  a  stone  jar, 
let  it  cool,  and  remove  all  the  grease.  This  stock  will  keep  for 
many  days  in  cold  weather,  and  from  it  can  be  made  all  the 
various  kinds  of  soups  by  adding  onion,  macaroni,  celery, 
asparagus,  green  peas,  carrot,  tomato,  okra,  parsley,  thyme, 
summer  savory,  sage,  and  slices  of  lemon;  many  of  these  may 
be  first  dried,  then  pulverized  and  put  in  cans  or  jars  for 
winter  use.  Celery  and  carrot  seed  may  be  used  in  place  of 
the  fresh  vegetables.  Macaroni  should  be  first  boiled  in 
slightly  salted  water,  cut  in  pieces  one  or  two  inches  long, 


10 


Soups. 


and  added  a  short  time  before  serving.  To  prepare  soup  for 
dinner,  cut  off  a  slice  of  the  jelly,  add  water,  heat  and  serve. 
Whatever  is  added  to  this,  such  as  rice,  tapioca,  vegetables, 
&c,  may  first  be  cooked  before  being  added,  as  much  boiling 
injures  the  flavor  of  the  stock. 

BEAN  SOUP. 

Boil  a  small  soup  bone  in  about  two  quarts  of  water  until 
the  meat  can  be  separated  from  the  bone,  remove  bone,  add  a 
coffee-cup  black  beans  soaked  for  two  hours,  boil  for  an  hour 
and  a  half,  add  three  potatoes,  half  a  turnip  and  a  parsnip,  all 
sliced  fine,  boil  half  an  hour  longer,  and  just  before  serving 
sprinkle  in  a  few  dry  bread  crumbs. 

BEEF  SOUP. 

Take  bones  and  trimmings  from  a  sirloin  steak,  put  over 
fire  after  breakfast  in  three  quarts  water,  boil  steadily  until 
about  an  hour  before  dinner,  when  add  two  onions,  one  carrot, 
three  common-sized  potatoes,  all  sliced,  some  parsley  cut  fine, 
a  red  pepper,  and  salt  to  taste. 

CHICKEN  SOUP. — No.  1. 

Take  one  chicken,  boil  tender,  using  water  for  soup  that  the 
chicken  has  been  boiled  in;  cut  the  white  meat  of  chicken  in 
small  pieces;  when  the  soup  is  well  seasoned  add  chicken  and 
pour  in  one  pint  of  sweet  cream.    This  is  delicious. 

CHICKEN  SOUP. — No.  2. 

In  boiling  chickens  for  salads,  etc.,  the  broth  (water  in 
which  the}r  are  boiled)  may  be  used  for  soup.  When  the 
chickens  are  to  be  served  whole,  stuff  and  tie  in  a  cloth.  To 
the  broth  add  a  dozen  tomatoes  (or  a  quart  can),  and  one 
thinly-sliced  onion;  boil  twenty  minutes,  season  with  salt  and 
pepper,  add  two  well -beaten  eggs  and  serve. 

EGG  SOUP. 

Have  stock  boiling,  thicken  a  very  little;  then  boil  two  eggs, 
chop  fine,  season  soup  and  put  in  egg. 


Soups. 


11 


GRANDMOTHER'S  BEAN  SOUP. 

Take  one  pint  white  beans,  wash  well,  put  on  to  cook  in  one 
quart  of  cold  water;  when  water  boils  pour  off  and  add  quart 
cold  water  again;  put  in  piece  of  pork  the  size  of  the  hand, 
salt  to  taste;  as  water  boils  away  add  so  as  to  keep  covered 
with  water;  cook  till  the  beans  mash  easily;  beat  two  eggs 
well,  add  two  table-spoons  water  and  a  pinch  of  salt,  stir  in 
flour  till  as  stiff  as  can  be  stirred,  then  drop  the  batter  with  a 
spoon  into  the  soup  (having  previously  taken  two-thirds  of 
the  beans  out  into  a  pan,  laid  the  piece  of  pork  on  top  with  a 
sprinkle  of  salt  and  pepper,  and  put  all  into  the  oven  to 
brown);  when  the  dumplings  swell  up,  pepper  slightly  and 
the  soup  is  done.  If  the  pork  taste  is  disliked,  use  butter 
instead  of  pork. 

$ 

GUMBO. 

Slice  a  large  onion  and  put  it  with  a  slice  of  bacon  or  fat 
ham  into  a  skillet  and  brown;  skin  and  cut  up  two  quarts 
tomatoes,  cut  thin  one  quart  okra,  put  all  together  with  a 
little  parsley. 

MOCK  TURTLE  SOUP — No.  1. 

One  pint  black  beans  soaked  over  night  in  four  quarts 
water,  two  onions,  one  large  carrot  grated,  half  pound  fresh 
beef,  half  pound  pork;  boil  all  day;  when  ready  for  dinner 
strain  through  a  colander  into  tureen;  add  one  glassful  of 
port  wine,  or  not,  according  to  fancy,  one  hard-boiled  egg,  one 
lemon  sliced. 

MOCK  TURTLE  SOUP— No.  2. 

Take  good  stock,  as  that  is  what  makes  good  soup;  boil  a 
calf's  head  tender,  take  out  brains,  chop  fine,  and  make  a 
force-meat  ball  by  mixing  the  meat  chopped  fine  and  an  egg, 
and  rolled  cracker;  make  all  into  small  balls  and  fry  brown; 
season  soup,  then  drop  these  balls  into  soup  just  as  you  send 
it  to  the  table. 


12 


Soups. 


MOCK  TURTLE  OR  CALF'S-HEAD  SOUP. 

Lay  one  large  calf's  head,  well  cleansed  and  washed,  and 
four  pig's  feet,  in  the  bottom  of  a  large  pot,  and  cover  with  a 
gallon  of  water;  boil  three  hours,  or  until  flesh  will  slip  from 
bones;  take  out  head,  leaving  the  feet  to  be  boiled  steadily 
while  the  meat  is  cut  from  the  head.  Take  the  soup  from  the 
fire  and  set  it  away  until  the  next  da}T.  An  hour  before  dinner 
set  the  stock  over  the  fire,  and  when  it  boils  strain  carefully, 
and  drop  in  the  meat  reserved,  which  should  have  been  cut, 
when  cold,  into  small  squares.  Have  these  all  ready  as  well 
as  the  force-meat  balls,  to  prepare  which  rub  the  yolks  of 
five  hard-boiled  eggs  to  a  paste  in  a  wedgewood  mortar,  or 
in  a  bowl  with  the  back  of  a  silver  spoon,  adding  gradually 
the  brains  to  moisten  them,  also  a  little  butter  and  salt.  Mix 
with  these,  two  eggs  beaten  very  light,  flour  the  hands  and 
make  this  paste  into  balls  about  the  size  of  a  pigeon's  egg; 
throw  them  into  the  soup  five  minutes  before  taking  it  from 
the  fire;  stir  in  a  large  table-spoon  browned  flour  rubbed 
smooth  in  a  little  cold  water,  and  finish  the  seasoning  by  the 
addition  of  a  glass  and  a  half  of  sherry  or  Madeira  wine,  and 
the  juice  of  a  lemon.  It  should  not  boil  more  than  half  an 
hour  on  the  second  day.    Serve  with  sliced  lemons. 

OKRA  SOUP. 

Take  a  nice  joint  of  beef 'filled  with  marrow,  one  gallon 
water,  one  onion  cut  fine,  two  sprigs  parsley,  half  a  peck  of 
okra,  one  quart  tomatoes;  boil  the  meat  six  hours,  add  vege- 
tables and  boil  two  hours  more. 

ONION  SOUP. 

Fry  brown  in  butter  eight  sliced  onions  with  a  table-spoon 
flour,  put  in  a  tin  pail,  and  stir  in  slowly  four  or  five  pints 
boiling  milk  (or  part  water),  set  in  a  kettle  of  boiling  water, 
season  with  salt  and  pepper,  and  add  tea-cup  grated  potato; 
cook  from  five  to  ten  minutes,  add  tea-cup  of  sweet  cream  and 
serve  immediately. 


Soups. 


L3 


OX  TAIL  SOUP. 

Have  nice  stock;  boil  ox  tail  until  tender,  cut  in  small 
pieces  and  put  into  soup;  season  well  and  send  to  table. 

OYSTER  SOUP. 

Two  quarts  water,  table-spoon  salt,  two  of  butter,  half 
tea-spoon  pepper;  heat  together  to  boiling  point,  add  pint 
oysters,  six  rolled  crackers,  half  cup  sweet  cream.  Remove  as 
soon  as  at  the  boiling  point.    Serve  immediately. 

PEA  SOUP. 

Two  quarts  of  good  stock,  one  quart  split  peas,  or  green 
peas,  one  tea-spoon  white  sugar;  soak  the  peas,  if  split,  over 
night,  and  then  boil  tender  in  just  enough  water  to  prevent 
them  from  scorching;  when  tender  pass  them  through  a  sieve 
and  add  them  to  the  stock ;  add  pepper  and  salt  to  taste,  let 
all  come  slowly  to  a  boil,  let  the  soup  simmer  slowly  for  thirty 
minutes,  and  just  before  serving  stir  in  a  table-spoon  of  butter 
in  which  has  been  stirred  a  tea-spoon  of  flour.  Serve  hot, 
with  chips  of  fried  bread. 

POT  AU  FEU. 

Take  a  good-sized  beef-bone  with  plent}7  of  meat  on  it, 
extract  the  marrow  and  place  in  a  pot  on  the  back  of  the 
range,  covering  the  beef  with  three  or  more  quarts  of  cold 
water;  cover  tightly,  and  allow  to  simmer  slowly  all  day  long. 
The  next  day,  before  heating,  remove  the  cake  of  grease  from 
the  top,  and  add  a  large  onion  (previously  stuck  full  of  whole 
cloves  and  then  roasted  in  the  oven  till  of  a  rich  brown  color), 
adding  tomatoes  or  any  other  vegetable  which  one  may  fancy. 
A  leek  or  a  section  of  garlic  adds  much  to  the  flavor.  Rice 
may  be  added,  or  vermicelli  for  a  change.  Just  before  serving 
burn  a  little  brown  sugar  and  stir  through  it.  This  gives  a 
peculiar  flavor  and  rich  color  to  the  soup. 


14 


Soups, 


TURKEY  SOUP. 

Place  the  rack  of  a  cold  turkey  and  what  remains  of  the 
dressing  and  gravy  in  a  pot,  and  cover  with  cold  water; 
simmer  gently  for  three  or  four  hours,  and  let  it  stand  till  the 
next  day;  take  off  all  the  fat,  and  skim  off  all  the  bits  and 
bones;  put  the  soup  on  to  heat  till  it  boils,  then  thicken 
slightly  with  flour  wet  up  in  water,  and  season  to  taste ;  pick 
off  all  the  bits  of  turkey  from  the  bones,  put  them  in  the  soup, 
boil  up  and  serve. 

VEGETABLE  SOUP — No.  1. 

After  boiling  a  soup  bone  or  piece  of  beef  until  done,  add 
to  the  broth  boiling  water  to  make  the  amount  of  soup 
wanted,  and  when  boiling  again  add  a  large  handful  of 
cabbage  cut  fine  as  for  slaw,  a  half  pint  of  tomatoes,  canned 
or  fresh;  peel  and  slice  and  add  three  large  or  four  small 
onions,  and  two  or  three  potatoes  (some  use  a  half  tea-cup  of 
dried  or  half  a  pint  of  green  corn ;  if  dried  corn  is  used,  it 
should  be  soaked).  Let  boil  from  half  to  three-quarters  of  an 
hour;  if  you  like  a  little  thickening,  stir  an  egg  or  yolk  with 
a  large  spoonful  of  milk  and  a  tea-spoon  of  flour,  put  in  five 
or  ten  minutes  before  taking  off;  this  makes  it  very  rich. 
Serve  with  crackers. 

VEGETABLE  SOUP— No.  2. 

Three  onions,  three  carrots,  three  turnips,  one  small  cab- 
bage, one  pint  of  tomatoes ;  chop  all  the  vegetables  except  the 
tomatoes  very  fine,  have  ready  in  a  porcelain  kettle  three 
quarts  of  boiling  water;  put  in  all  except  the  cabbage  and 
tomatoes  and  simmer  for  half  an  hour,  then  add  the  chopped 
cabbage  and  tomatoes  (the  tomatoes  previously  stewed),  also 
a  bunch  of  sweet  herbs.  Let  sonp  boil  for  twenty  minutes, 
strain  through  a  sieve,  rubbing  all  the  vegetables  through. 
Take  two  table-spoons  of  best  butter  and  one  of  flour  and  beat 
them  to  a  cream.  Now  pepper  and  salt  soup  to  taste,  add  a 
tea-spoon  of  white  sugar,  a  half  cup  of  sweet  cream  if  you 
have  it,  and  last  stir  in  the  butter  and  flour;  let  it  boil  up 
and  it  is  ready  for  the  table.  Serve  with  fried  bread  chips,  or 
poached  eggs  one  in  each  dish. 


Fish. 


15 


FISH, 


TN  choosing  fresh  fish  those  only  must  be  selected  which  are 
^  thick  and  firm,  having  bright  scales,  red  gills,  and  eyes  full 
and  prominent. 

Great  care  must  be  taken  to  clean  the  fish  well  before  it  is 
dressed,  cutting  it  low  enough  to  prevent  even  an  atom  of 
blood  from  adhering  to  the  back-bone.  Too  large  an  incision 
must  be  avoided,  as  it  not  only  difigures  the  fish,  but  renders 
it  watery  if  intended  for  boiling. 

Good  drippings  or  lard  should  be  used  in  frying,  as  butter 
is  apt  to  burn  and  make  the  fish  sof£.  In  boiling  fish,  they 
should  be  put  in  cold  water  into  which  has  been  thrown  a 
quantity  of  coarse  salt,  (about  four  ounces  to  one  gallon  of 
water).  For  time  of  cooking  allow  ten  minutes  to  each  pound 
of  fish  ;  if  weighing  very  heavy,  six  minutes  a  pound  for  the 
whole  will  suffice. 

In  order  to  know  whether  the  fish  be  done,  it  is  well  to  try 
it  by  passing  a  knife  next  to  the  bone;  if  it  adheres  at  all  to 
the  bone  it  is  not  done.  The  fish  should  not  be  allowed  to 
remain  in  the  water  one  moment  longer  than  is  necessary. 

Fresh  water  fish  often  have  a  muddy  taste,  which  can  be 
removed  by  soaking  them  in  strong  salt  and  water  before 
ceoking.  Salt  fish,  when  hard  and  dry,  will  require  about 
thirt}^  hours'  soaking,  the  water  being  changed,  meanwhile, 
three  or  four  times.  Wheu  not  very  salt,  over  night  will 
suffice. 

BAKED  FISH. 

Open  the  fish  so  that  it  will  lie  perfectly  flat;  rub  salt  over 
it,  and  lay  in  a  dripping  part  (skin  side  next  the  pan),  with  a 
little  butter  and  water;  set  in  a  very  hot  oven,  bake  half  an 
hour,  and  when  done  it  will  be  a  delicate  brown. 


16 


Fish. 


BOILED  FISH  WITH  VEGETABLES. 

Put  a  whole  fish  in  kettle,  and  cover  with  a  stock  made  as 
follows :  Fry  in  a  sauce-pan  two  onions,  a  carrot,  a  piece  of 
celery  or  celery  seed,  a  table-spoon  butter  and  one  of  flour,  a 
sprig  of  parsley,  a  tea-spoon  of  whole  black  peppers,  and  three 
cloves;  add  two  and  a  half  quarts  water,  two  tea-cups  vinegar, 
boil  twenty  minutes,  salt  and  skim.  Pour  this  over  the  fish 
and  boil  gently  until  done.    Serve  with  egg  sauce. 

BROOK  TROUT. 

Wash  and  drain  in  a  colander  a  few  minutes,  split  nearly  to 
the  tail,  flour  nicely,  salt  and  put  in  pan,  which  should  be  hot 
but  not  burning;  throw  in  a  little  salt  to  prevent  sticking, 
and  do  not  turn  until  brown  enough  for  the  table.  Trout  are 
nice  fried  with  slices  of  salt  pork. 

FRIED  FISH. 

Clean  thoroughly,  cut  off  the  head,  and,  if  large,  cut  out  the 
backbone,  and  slice  the  body  crosswise  into  five  or  six  pieces; 
dip  in  Indian  meal  or  wheat  flour,  or  in  a  beateu  egg  and  then 
in  bread  crumbs  (trout  and  perch  should  never  be  dipped  in 
meal),  put  into  a  thick-bottomed  skillet,  skin  side  uppermost, 
with  hot  lard  or  drippings  (never  in  butter,  as  it  takes  out  the 
sweetness  and  gives  a  bad  color),  fry  slowly,  and  tarn  when 
a  light  brown.  The  roe  and  the  backbone,  if  previously 
removed,  may  be  cut  up  and  fried  with  the  other  pieces.  A 
better  way  is  to  dredge  the  pieces  in  the  flour,  brush  with 
beaten  egg,  roll  in  bread-crumbs,  and  fry  in  hot  lard  or  drip- 
pings enough  to  completely  cover  them.  If  the  fat  is  very 
hot,  the  fish  will  not  absorb  it,  and  will  be  delicately  cooked. 
When  brown  on  one  side  turn  over  in  the  fat  and  brown  the 
other,  and  when  done  let  them  drain.  Slices  of  large  fish  may 
be  cooked  in  the  same  way.  Serve  with  tomato  sauce  or  slices 
of  lemon. 


Fish. 


17 


SALMON,  TROUT,  OR  PICKEREL,  BAKED. 

Clean  thoroughly,  wipe  carefully,  and  lay  in  a  dripping-pan 
with  water  enough  to  prevent  scorching  (a  perforated  tin 
sheet  or  rack  fitting  loosely  in  the  pan,  or  several  muffin-rings 
may  be  used  to  keep  the  fish  from  the  bottom  of  the  pan,  and 
the  fish  may  be  made  to  form  a  circle  by  t}7ing  head  and  tail 
together) ;  bake  slowly,  basting  often  with  butter  and  water. 
When  done  have  ready  a  cup  of  sweet  cream  into  which  a  few 
spoonfuls  of  hot  water  have  been  poured,  stir  in  two  table- 
spoons melted  butter  and  a  little  chopped  parsley,  and  heat  in 
a  vessel  of  boiling  water;  add  the  gravy  from  the  dish  and 
boil  up  once.  Place  the  fish  in  a  hot  dish,  and  pour  over  the 
sauce. 

SALT  MACKEREL,  BOILED. 

After  freshening  wrap  in  a  cloth  and  simmer  for  fifteen 
minutes;  remove,  lay  on  it  two  hard-boiled  eggs  sliced;  pour 
over  it  drawn  butter,  and  trim  with  parsley  leaves.  Boiling 
salt  fish  hardens  it. 

SHAD,  BAKED. 

Open  and  clean  the  fish,  cut  off  its  head  or  not,  as  preferred, 
cut  out  the  backbone  from  the  head  to  within  two  inches  of 
the  tail,  and  fill  with  the  following  mixture :  Soak  stale  bread 
in  water,  squeeze  dry;  cut  a  large  onion  in  pieces,  fry  in 
butter,  chop  fine,  add  the  bread,  two  ounces  of  butter,  salt, 
pepper,  and  a  little  parsley  or  sage;  heat  thoroughly,  and 
when  taken  from  the  fire,  add  two  yolks  of  well-beaten  eggs ; 
stuff,  and  when  full,  wind  the  fish  several  times  with  tape, 
place  in  baking-pan,  baste  slightly  with  batter,  and  cover  the 
bottom  of  pan  with  water;  serve  with  the  following  sauce: 
Reduce  the  yolks  of  two  hard-boiled  eggs  to  a  smooth  paste, 
add  two  table-spoons  olive  oil,  half  tea-spoon  mustard,  and 
pepper  and  vinegar  to  taste. 

SHAD — BROILED. 

Wash,  wipe  and  split  the  fish,  sprinkle  with  salt  and  lay  it 
upon  a  buttered  gridiron,  inside  downward;  when  the  lower 


18 


Fish. 


side  is  browned  turn  the  other  side;  cook  slowly.  A  medium 
sized  fish  will  broil  in  twenty  minutes  or  half  an  hour,  Serve 
upon  a  hot  platter,  with  a  good  piece  of  fresh  butter  upon  the 
fish.  Fried  apples  are  very  nice  with  this  fish  for  breakfast. 
Any  kind  of  good  fresh  fish  is  nice  broiled. 

WHITE  FISH — BOILED. 

Dress  the  fish  nicely,  and  cover  in  fish-kettle  with  cold 
water  seasoned  well  with  salt;  remove  the  scum  as  it  rises, 
and  boil  very  slowly,  allowing  from  eight  to  ten  minutes  time 
for  every  pound;  when  about  half  done,  add  a  little  vinegar 
or  lemon  juice,  take  out,  drain,  and  dish  carefully,  pouring 
over  it  drawn  butter,  or  garnish  with  sprigs  of  parsley,  and 
serve  with  egg  sauce. 

WHITE  FISH — BROILED. 

Clean,  split  down  the  back,  and  let  stand  in  salted  water  for 
several  hours ;  wipe  dry,  and  place  on  a  well  greased  gridiron 
over  hot  coals,  sprinkling  with  salt  and  pepper.  Put  flesh 
side  down  at  first,  and  when  nicely  browned,  turn  carefully  on 
the  other.  Cook  for  twenty  or  thirty  minutes,  or  until  nicely 
browned  on  both  sides. 


Baked  fish  is  very  nice  for  dinner.  A  medium  sized  white 
fish  will  bake  in  three-quarters  of  an  hour.  Eat  with  egg 
sauce. 

White  fish  is  very  fine,  indeed,  cut  in  medium  sized  pieces 
sprinkled  over  with  salt,  let  stand  half  hour;  then  have  a 
small  kettle  with  hot  fat,  as  you  would  for  frying  potatoes; 
roll  fish  in  flour  or  meal  and  drop  into  fat;  let  cook  half  hour. 
It  should  brown  nicely. 

BOSTON  FISH  CHOWDER. — By  Mrs.  Mills  of  Boston. 

Buy  part  cod  and  part  haddock;  skin  fish  and  boil  head 
and  bones  in  three  quarts  cold  water  and  a  little  salt  ;  then 
cut  fish  in  little  squares,  wipe  dry  and  flour  a  little;  then  fry 


Fish. 


19 


out  in  a  pot  four  slices  nice  lean  salt  pork  and  two  large 
onions  cut  up;  take  out  pork  and  wipe  pot  dry;  turn  back 
fat  and  lay  on  one  layer  of  fish,  pepper,  salt  and  fried  sliced 
onions;  then  a  layer  of  thick  sliced  potatoes,  with  pepper  and 
salt;  then  layer  of  Boston  hard  crackers  split  in  two;  then 
fish  again,  until  all  is  finished;  boil  slowly,  adding  one  good 
pint  of  milk,  one-quarter  pound  butter,  pinch  of  thyrne  and 
one  bay  leaf;  when  fish  is  done  take  out  carefully  with  a  large 
spoon,  so  as  not  to  break  up  the  fish  more  than  is  absolutely 
necessary.    Do  not  stir  the  chowder,  but  turn  pot  around. 

FISH  CHOWDER. 

The  best  fish  for  chowder  are  haddock  and  striped  bass, 
although  any  kind  of  fresh  fish  may  be  used.  Cut  in  pieces 
over  an  inch  thick  and  two  inches  square;  place  eight  good 
slices  of  salt  pork  in  the  bottom  of  an  iron  pot  and  fry  till 
crisp;  remove  the  pork,  leaving  the  fat,  chop  fine;  put  in  the 
pot  a  layer  of  fish,  a  layer  of  split  crackers,  and  some  of  the 
chopped  pork  with  black  and  red  pepper  and  chopped  onions, 
then  another  layer  of  fish,  another  of  crackers  and  seasoning, 
and  so  on.  Cover  with  water,  and  stew  slowly  till  the  fish  is 
perfectly  done ;  remove  from  the  pot,  put  in  dish  in  which  you 
serve  it  and  keep  hot;  thicken  the  gravy  with  rolled  cracker 
or  flour,  boil  it  up  once  and  pour  over  the  chowder.  Some  add 
a  little  catsup,  port  wine  and  lemon  juice  to  the  gravy  just 
before  taking  up,  but  I  think  it  nicer  without  them. 


20 


Shell-Fish. 


SHELL-FISH. 


OYSTERS— BEOILED. 

Dry  large,  selected  <yysters  in  a  napkin,  pepper  and  salt,  and 
broil  on  a  fine  folding  wire  broiler,  turning  frequently  to  keep 
the  juice  from  wasting.  Serve  immediately  in  a  hot  dish  with 
little  pieces  of  butter  on  them.  Or,  pepper  a  cup  of  dry  bread 
crumbs;  dry  one  quart  of  oysters  in  a  napkin,  dip  each  in 
butter  previously  peppered,  roll  well  in  the  crumbs,  and  broil 
over  a  good  fire  for  five  to  seven  minutes.  Serve  immediately 
in  a  hot  dish  with  butter,  pepper  and  salt. 

OYSTERS — ESCALLOPED. — Mrs.  J.  A.  Sterreit  Chicago. 

Have  plenty  of  fine  crushed  cracker  crumbs—  either  soda 
or  butter  crackers ;  put  a  layer  in  the  bottom  of  a  buttered 
pudding  dish  ;  wet  slightly  with  oyster  liquor  and  milk 
mixed;  next  a  layer  of  oysters,  alternately  till  the  dish  is 
full.  Let  the  top  layer  be  crumbs.  Beat  an  egg  and  mix 
it  with  a  little  milk,  pour  it  over  the  top,  cover  the  dish  and 
bake  half  an  hour;  remove  the  cover  a  few  minutes  before 
taking  from  the  oven  to  let  it  brown. 

OYSTERS — FRIED. 

Drain  carefully,  remove  all  bits  of  shell,  and  sprinkle  with 
pepper  and  salt,  and  set  in  a  cool  place  for  ten  or  fifteen 
minutes.  Then,  if  oysters  are  small,  pour  them  into  a  pan  of 
crackers  rolled  fine,  add  the  liquor,  mix  well,  and  let  stand 
five  minutes,  add  a  little  salt  and  pepper,  mould  into  small 
cakes  with  two  or  three  oysters  in  each,  roll  in  dry  crackers 
until  well  encrusted,  and  fry  in  hot  lard  and  butter,  or  beef- 
drippings.  Serve  hot  in  a  covered  dish.  Or,  if  large,  roll 
each,  first  in  cracker  dust,  then  in  beaten  egg  mixed  with  a 


Shell-Fish. 


21 


little  milk  and  seasoned  with  pepper  and  salt,  then  again  in 
the  cracker  dust,  and  fry  in  hot  lard  until  a  delicate  brown, 
drain,  and  serve  on  a  hot  platter,  with  cold  slaw,  chopped 
pickles,  or  chow-chow. 

Or,  dip  fine  large  oysters  singly  in  flour;  have  some  butter 
and  lard  hot  in  a  thick-bottomed  frying-pan;  lay  the  oysters 
m,  and  turn  each  as  soon  as  browned;  when  both  sides  are 
done  take  them  up  and  serve.  Grated  horse-radish  or  pickles 
should  be  served  with  them. 

Or,  drain  thoroughly,  put  in  a  hot  frying-pan,  turn  so  as 
to  brown  on  both  sides.  They  cook  in  this  way  in  a  few 
moments,  and  the  peculiar  flavor  of  the  oyster  is  well  pre- 
served. Serve  on  a  hot,  covered  dish,  with  butter,  £>epper, 
and  salt,  or  add  a  little  cream  just  before  serving,  and  serve 
on  toast;  or  take  two  parts  rolled  crackers  and  one  part  corn 
meal,  mix  well,  roll  the  oysters  in  it,  and  fry  in  equal  parts 
butter  and  lard.    Season  with  salt  and  pepper. 

OYSTER  OMELET. 
12  oysters  if  large,  double  the  number  if  &  nail;  6  eggs,  1 
cup  milk,  1  table-spoonful  butter,  chopped  parsley,  salt  and 
pepper.  Chop  the  oysters  very  fine;  beat  yolks  and  whites 
of  eggs  separately,  as  for  cake;  put  three  table-spoons  butter 
in  spider,  let  heat  well  but  not  to  scorch;  stir  milk  into  dish 
with  yolks  and  season ;  next  put  in  the  chopped  oysters,  beat 
well,  then  add  the  whites,  of  eggs  beaten  lightly,  then  pour  all 
into  hot  spider.  It  will  begin  to  cook  at  once;  take  knife  and 
loosen  around  edge  so  as  to  cook  all  evenly.  Turn  on  hot 
dish  and  serve. 

OYSTERS— RAW. 

Select  fine  oysters,  drain  in  a  colander,  pick  out  all  bits  of 
shell,  sprinkle  well  with  pepper  and  salt,  and  place  on  ice  for 
half  an  hour  before  serving. 

OYSTERS— ROASTED, 

Lay  oysters  on  half  shell  aud  set  in  oven  with  a  little 
butter  on  them,  and  pepper  and  salt  sprinkled  over ;  let  bake  fif- 
teen minutes;  send  to  table  on  shells;  set  shells  in  dripping-pan. 


Shell-Fish. 


OYSTER  SOUP. 

First  drain  the  oysters ;  put  the  liquor  over  the  fire,  with  a 
pint  of  water,  let  come  to  a  boil  and  skim,  throw  in  the  oysters 
and  stir  and  skim  again ;  do  not  let  them  boil ;  add  a  tea-cup 
of  cream  and  seasoning,  then  stir  in  one-half  tea-cup  of  rolled 
cracker,  let  it  just  boil  and  lift  off  the  stove,  then  add  a  large 
table-spoonful  of  butter. 

OYSTER  SOUP — PLAIN. 

Pour  one  quart  oysters  in  a  colander,  rinse  by  pouring  over 
them  one  pint  cold  water,  pat  this  in  porcelain  kettle,  add  one 
pint  boiling  water;  let  boil,  skim  thoroughly,  season  with 
pepper  and  piece  of  butter  size  of  large  egg;  then  add  the 
oysters,  having  removed  all  shells,  let  boil  up  once,  season 
with  salt  and  serve. 

OYSTER  STEW — No.  1. 

Drain  the  juice  from  one  quart  of  oysters,  removing  them 
with  a  spoon,  and  not  piercing  with  a  fork.  Measure  the 
juice,  and  if  not  half  a  pint  in  quantity,  add  water  enough  to 
fill  the  measure.  Place  over  the  fire  in  a  porcelain  stew-pan, 
adding  a  piece  of  butter  the  size  of  a  large  walnut.  When  it 
comes  to  a  boil  remove  all  scum  that  may  arise.  Put  in  the 
oysters  and  let  them  heat  through,  not  cooking  enough  to 
shrivel  them ;  add  a  little  more  than  half  a  pint  of  cream ;  let 
it  scald  through  again,  remove  from  the  stove  and  season  to 
suit  the  taste.  New  milk  will  do  instead  of  cream,  and  the 
stove  should  be  very  hot,  so  as  to  cook  them  quickly.  Season 
while  cooking  is  better. 

OYSTER  STEW— No.  2. 

Two  quarts  oysters,  one  of  sweet  milk,  two  table-spoons 
best  butter,  one  of  corn  starch  or  two  of  flour;  drain  liquor 
from  oysters,  boil  and  skim ;  set  milk  in  a  kettle  of  hot  water 
to  prevent  scorching;  when  it  boils  add  oysters  and  liquor, 
and  allow  to  stew  not  longer  than  five  minutes;  beat  corn 


Meats. 


23 


starch  and  butter  to  a  cream,  stir  in  and  season  with  pepper 
and  salt;  serve  hot.  Some  omit  corn  starch  and  flour,  and 
thicken  with  rolled  cracker. 


Broil  oysters,  have  toast  ready,  season  oysters,  lay  on  toast, 
have  a  gravy  of  melted  butter  to  pour  over;  send  to  table  hot; 
nice  for  tea. 

Oysters  baked  in  the  shell  are  very  nice.  Oysters  steamed 
in  the  shell  are  just  delicious.  Steam  half  an  hour,  open  the 
shells,  sprinkle  salt  and  pepper  over;  eat  while  hot,  on  shell, 
with  a  little  butter. 


NGLISH  cooks  never  wash  beef,  but  wipe  with  a  towel 


J—  wrung  out  of  cold  water.  To  bake,  place  in  the  dripping- 
pan  with  bony  side  up,  flour  well,  put  one  pint  hot  water  in 
pan,  adding  more  when  needed,  and  set  in  a  rather  brisk  oven, 
afterward  graduated  to  a  moderate  heat.  Baste  frequently, 
turning  the  pan  often  so  that  the  parts  may  roast  equally,  and 
when  about  half  done  add  pieces  of  carrot,  onion,  and  a  few 
sprigs  of  parsley,  flour  again,  salt,  turn  over  and  flour  the 
other  side,  seasoning  with  salt  and  pepper  about  half  an  hour 
before  serving.  Many  roast  meat  on  a  grate  placed  in  the 
dripping-pan,  adding  but  little  water  at  a  time  (when  there  is 
too  much  the  meat  is  steamed  instead  of  roasting,  and  the 
gravy  will  not  become  brown).  In  roasting  all  meats,  success 
depends  upon  flouring  thoroughly,  basting  frequently,  turning 
often  so  as  to  prevent  burning,  and  carefully  regulating  the 
heat  of  the  oven.  Allow  fifteen  to  twenty-five  minutes  to  the 
pound  in  roasting,  according  as  it  is  to  be  rare  or  well  done, 
taking  into  consideration  the  quality  of  the  meat.  Roasts 
prepared  with  dressing  require  more  time.  In  roasting  meats 
many  think  it  better  not  to  add  any  water  until  the  meat  has 


OYSTERS  ON  TOAST. 


MEATS. 


24 


Meats. 


been  in  the  oven  about  half  an  hour,  or  until  it  begins  to 
brown. 

Broiling  is  a  far  more  wholesome  method  of  cooking  meats 
than  fiying.  Tough  steak  is  made  more  tender  by  pounding 
or  hacking  with  a  dull  knife,  but  some  of  the  juices  are  lost 
by  the  operation;  cutting  it  across  in  small  squares  with  a 
sharp  knife  on  both  sides  is  better  than  either.  Trim  off  all 
superfluous  fat,  but  never  wash  a  freshly  cut  steak.  Place  the 
steak  on  a  hot,  well-greased  gridiron,  turn  often  so  that  the 
outside  may  be  seared  at  once;  when  done,  which  will  require 
from  five  to  ten  minutes,  dish  on  a  hot  platter,  season  with 
salt  and  pepper  and  bits  of  butter,  cover  with  a  hot  platter 
and  serve  at  once.  A  small  pair  of  tongs  are  best  to  turn 
steaks,  as  piercing  with  a  fork  frees  the  juices.  If  fat  drips 
on  the  coals  below,  the  blaze  ma}7  be  extinguished  by  sprink- 
ling with  salt,  always  withdrawing  the  gridiron,  to  prevent 
the  steak  from  acquiring  a  snioky  flavor.  Always  have  a 
brisk  fire,  whether  3*011  cook  in  a  patent  broiler  directly  over 
the  fire,  or  on  a  gridiron  over  a  bed  of  live  coals. 

When  the  means  to  broil  are  not  at  hand,  the  next  best 
method  is  to  heat  the  frying-pan  very  hot,  put  in  the  steak 
previously  hacked,  let  remain  a  few  moments,  loosen  with  a 
knife  and  turn  quickly  several  times;  repeat  this,  and  when 
done  transfer  to  a  hot  platter,  salt,  pepper,  and  put  over  it  bits 
of  butter;  pile  the  steaks  one  on  top  of  another,  and  cover 
with  a  hot  platter.  This  way  of  frying  is  both  healthful  and 
delicate.  Or.  heat  the  skillet,  trim  off  the  fat  from  the  steak, 
cut  it  in  small  bits  and  set  on  to  fry;  meanwhile  pound  steak, 
then  draw  the  bits  of  suet  to  one  side  and  put  in  the  steak, 
turn  quickly  over  several  times  so  as  to  sear  the  outside,  take 
out  on  a  hot  platter  previously  seasoned  with  salt  and  pepper, 
dredge  well,  return  to  skillet,  repeating  the  operation  until  the 
steak  is  done;  dish  on  a  hot  platter,  covering  with  another 
platter,  and  place  where  it  will  keep  hot  while  making  the 
gravy.  Place  a  table-spoon  dry  flour  in  the  skillet,  being 
sure  to  have  the  fat  boiling  hot,  stir  until  brown  and  free 
from  lumps  (the  bits  of  suet  may  be  left  in,  drawing  them 
to  one  side  until  the  flour  is  browned),  pour  in  about  half  a 
pint  boiling  water. 


Meats. 


25 


BEEF  BOUILLU. 

For  a  family  dinner  buy  several  pounds  of  solid  lean  beef, 
having  it  cut,  if  possible,  from  that  side  of  the  round  where 
the  flesh  is  thickest.  Do  not  have  it  cut  in  steaks,  but  thick 
and  square.  Lard  it  very  fully  with  strips  of  fat  salt  pork, 
tie  it  with  a  small  cord  to  keep  it  in  shape,  and  put  it  in  a 
perfectly  tight,  covered  tin  pail.  Put  it  in  without  water,  and 
add  one  carrot,  chopped,  one-half  slice  of  onion,  chopped,  a 
little  celery  seed,  a  half  tea-spoonful  of  sage,  and  the  same  of 
sweet  marjorum  and  thyme;  cover  the  pail  in  such  a  way  as 
to  entirely  exclude  the  air,  and  put  it  in  an  iron  pot  of  water 
and  let  it  boil  steadily.  If  the  water  in  the  outside  vessel 
boils  away  replenish  it  with  hot  water  from  the  tea-kettle, 
which  can  be  kept  at  hand  for  the  purpose.  After  three 
hours  open  the  pail  and  turn  the  beef  other  side  up.  Add 
salt  and  pepper,  and  till  the  pail  nearly  to  the  top  with  raw 
potatoes  cut  in  thick  slices;  cover  again  and  boil  three  hours 
longer.  Then  take  the  cord  off  the  meat,  put  it  in  the  centre 
of  a  large  flat  dish  and  surround  it  with  boiled  rice;  put  the 
potatoes  upon  the  rice,  and  pour  over  all  the  seasoned  extract 
or  gravy  which  will  be  found  in  the  pail.  If  it  is  inconvenient 
to  have  the  range  occupied  so  long  b}^  the  kettle,  set  the  pail 
in  the  oven  and  the  result  will  be  almost  equal.  In  that  case 
it  will  only  require  five  hours  cooking  instead  of  six.  It  seems 
like  a  long  process,  but  it  requires  little  care  or  watching,  and 
if  once  successfully  tried,  it  is  sure  to  become  an  oft-repeated 
family  institution.  If  it  is  properly  prepared  no  one  flavor 
predominates. 

BEEF— FRIZZLED. 

Chip  dried  beef,  put  in  spider,  let  brown  a  little  butter; 
put  in  sweet  milk,  thicken  with  flour,  season  with  pepper  and 
salt.    Very  nice  dish  for  tea. 

BEEFSTEAK— BROILED. 

The  best  cuts  are  the  sirloin  and  porter-house,  one  inch 
thick.    Trim  nicely  (we  never  pound  steak),  put  on  gridiron, 

4 


26 


Meats. 


set  over  clear  hot  coals,  turn  once  for  rare,  twice  for  well-done, 
pepper  and  salt  last;  put  on  a  hot  platter,  put  a  little  butter 
over  it,  set  in  oven  a  moment,  serve.  No  husband  can  growl, 
as  it  will  be  like  marrow. 

Lamb  chops  are  broiled  in  the  same  way. 

BEEFSTEAK — FRIED. 

Pound  well;  have  a  hot  spider  on  the  stove;  take  some  beef 
suet,  rub  it  over  the  spider,  then  pop  your  steak  into  that  hot 
fat;  turn  over  quickly,  then  turn  back  and  forth  twice;  take 
out  on  a  hot  platter,  pepper  and  salt  and  put  on  a  little  butter, 
and  you  have  a  delicious  broiled  steak. 

BEEF— ROAST; 

Or  Beefsteak  Smothered  with  Onions — an  Economical  Way. 

Take  roast  beef  that  has  been  left  over,  cut  in  nice  slices, 
put  in  spider,  fry  brown;  prepare  onions,  as  many  as  are 
wanted  for  dinner,  pour  over  beef;  pepper,  salt,  and  put  in  a 
little  fresh  lard;  let  cook  slowly.  Beefsteak  is  done  in  the 
same  way. 

BEEF— ROAST. 

The  best  pieces  for  roasting  are  the  sirloin  or  standing  rib. 
Sprinkle  the  roast  with  salt  and  pepper,  pour  a  little  water  in 
the  pan  to  use  for  basting,  afterwards  use  the  drippings  ; 
allow  one-quarter  of  an  hour  to  the  pound  for  rare  meat, 
longer  if  wanted  well  done.  When  the  meat  is  done  pour  off 
the  fat  and  thicken  the  balance  of  the  gravy  with  flour  that 
has  been  rubbed  to  a  smooth  paste  in  a  little  cold  water. 
Baste  well,  as  that  is  the  secret  of  roasting. 

BEEFSTEAK,  STUFFED, 

Is  as  nice  for  dinner  as  a  much  more  expensive  roast,  and  it 
can  be  prepared  from  a  rather  poor  flank  or  round  steak; 
pound  well,  season  with  salt  and  pepper,  then  spread  with  a 
nice  dressing — may  use  some  of  the  bread-crumbs — roll  up 
and  tie  closely  with  twine  (which  always  save  from  the 


Meats. 


27 


grocer's  parcels),  put  in  a  kettle  with  a  quart  boiling  water, 
boil  slowly  one  hour,  take  out  and  place  in  dripping-pan, 
adding  water  in  which  it  was  boiled,  basting  frequently  until 
a  nice  brown,  and  making  gravy  of  the  drippings.  Or,  yon 
ma}7  put  it  at  once  into  the  dripping-pan,  omit  the  boiling 
process,  skewer  a  couple  slices  salt  pork  on  top,  add  a  very 
little  water,  baste  frequently,  and,  if  it  bakes  too  rapidly, 
cover  with  a  dripping-pan.    It  is  delicious  sliced  down  cold. 

BEEFSTEAK  TOAST. 

Chop  cold  steak  very  fine,  cook  in  a  little  water,  put  in 
cream  or  milk,  thicken,  season  with  butter,  salt,  and  pepper, 
and  pour  it  over  slices  of  toast.  Prepare  boiled  ham  in  the 
same  way,  adding  the  yolk  of  an  egg. 

BEEF  TONGUE. 

Wash  tongue,  cover  with  cold  water,  and  soak  over  night; 
next  day  put  it  in  a  kettle,  cover  with  cold  water,  boil  till 
tender,  remove  skin,  trim  carefully,  and  serve  with  rice  boiled 
dry,  or  with  mashed  potatoes,  heaped  around  it.  If  the  tongue 
is  to  be  eaten  cold,  leave  it  to  cool  in  the  water  in  which  it  was 
cooked. 

BOILED  MEATS. 

A  round  or  rump  of  beef  is  the  best  boiling  piece.  Stick 
your  steel  or  knife  every  here  and  there  in  the  round,  then  cut 
pieces  of  nice  pork  and  fit  in.  Boil  a  rump  three  hours,  salt 
and  pepper  at  first;  serve  on  hot  platter  with  catsup. 

BEEF  A  LA  MODE 

Is  boiled  the  same,  only  adding  spices  to  taste.  Let  boil  down 
until  a  brown  gravy  is  formed;  pour  over  and  send  to  table; 
or  press  and  cut  cold  for  supper  or  picnics. 

CORNED  BEEF— BOILED. 

Soak  over  night  if  very  salt,  but  if  the  beef  is  young  and 
properly  corned  this  is  not  necessary;  pour  over  it  cold  water 
enough  to  cover  it  well,  after  washing  off  the  salt.    The  rule 


1>8 


Meats. 


for  boiling  meats  is  twenty-five  minutes  to  the  pound,  but 
corned  beef  should  be  placed  on  a  part  of  the  stove  or  range 
where  it  will  simmer,  not  boil,  uninterruptedly  from  four  to 
six  hours,  according  to  the  size  of  the  piece.  If  to  be  served 
cold,  some  let  the  meat  remain  in  the  liquor  until  cold,  and 
some  let  tough  beef  remain  in  the  liquor  until  the  next  day, 
and  bring  it  to  the  boiling  point  just  before  serving.  Simmer 
a  brisket  or  plate-piece  until  the  bones  are  easily  removed, 
fold  over,  forming  a  square  or  oblong  piece,  place  sufficient 
weight  on  top  to  press  the  parts  closely  together,  and  set 
where  it  will  become  cold.  This  gives  a  firm,  solid  piece  to 
cut  in  slices,  and  is  a  delightful  relish.  Boil  liquor  dowm 
remove  the  fat,  season  with  pepper  or  sweet  herbs,  and  save 
it  to  pour  over  finely  minced  scraps  and  pieces  of  beef;  press 
the  meat  firmly  into  a  mould,  pour  over  it  the  liquor,  and 
place  over  it  a  close  cover  with  a  weight  upon  it.  When 
turned  from  the  mould,  garnish  with  sprigs  of  parsley  or 
celery,  and  serve  with  fancy  pickles  or  French  mustard. 

HAM  BALLS. 

Chop  fine  cold,  cooked  ham;  add  an  egg  for  each  person, 
and  a  little  flour;  beat  together,  make  into  balls,  and  fry 
brown  in  hot  butter. 

HAM— BROILED. 

Cut  the  slices  thin,  trim  carefully,  freshen  b}'  covering  with 
water  and  heating  gradually  nearly  to  the  boiliug  point;  test 
by  the  taste,  and  if  still  too  salt,  change  the  water  and  heat 
again;  dry  with  a  cloth,  broil  over  a  clear  fire,  and  season 
with  pepper  and  a  little  butter.    The  ham  should  not  be  old. 

HAM-  FRIED. 

Place  the  slices  in  boiling  water  and  cook  till  tender;  put 
in  frying-pan  and  brown,  and  dish  on  a  platter;  fry  some  eggs 
by  dripping  gravy  over  them  till  clone,  instead  of  turning; 
take  up  carefully  and  lay  them  on  the  slices  of  ham.  This  is 
a  tempting  dish,  and  if  nicely  prepared,  quite  ornamental. 


Meats. 


29 


HAM— GRATED. 

Cut  a  good -sized  piece  from  the  thickest  portion  of  a  boiled 
ham,  trim  off  the  fat,  grate  the  lean  part,  and  put  in  the  centre 
of  a  platter;  slice  some  tiny  slips  of  the  fat  and  place  around 
the  edge,  together  with  some  tender  hearts  of  lettuce-heads, 
and  serve  for  supper  or  lunch. 

To  economise  the  scraps  left  from  boiled  ham,  chop  fine, 
add  some  of  the  fat  also  chopped,  and  put  in  a  baking-plate, 
first  a  layer  of  bread-crumbs,  then  a  layer  of  mixed  fatrand 
lean,  then  another  layer  of  crumbs,  and  so  on  till  all  is  ussd, 
putting  a  few  bits  of  fat  over  the  top;  pour  over  it  a  little 
water  or  a  dressing  of  some  kind,  and  set  in  oven  till  a  nice 
brown.  This  is  delicious  for  breakfast,  or  for  a  "picked-up 
dinner,"  after  having  made  a  soup  from  the  bone,  well  cracked 
and  simmered  for  three  hours  with  a  few  sliced  potatoes  and 
rice,  or  dried  corn  and  beans  which  have  first  been  soaked  and 
parboiled.  In  boiling  hams,  always  select  an  old  ham;  for 
broiling,  one  recently  cured.  After  boiling  and  skinning  a 
ham,  sprinkle  well  with  sugar  and  brown  in  oven. 

HAM,  TONGUE  AND  CHICKEN  SANDWICHES. 

Nice  for  picnics  or  lunch.  Small  pieces  of  ham,  tongue  and 
chicken,  boiled  and  chopped  fine,  one  table-spoon  melted  but- 
ter, one  table-spoon  mustard,  yoke  of  one  egg,  pepper  and  salt 
to  taste.  Mix  well  and  spread  on  thin  sliced  bread  which 
has  been  buttered. 

HEART— BAKED. 

Bake  a  heart  as  you  would  roast  beef;  it  is  very  nice  for 
dinner.  Lamb's  heart  is  very  good.  Boil  a  heart  on  Satur- 
day, and  when  done  put  it  in  a  crock;  cover  with  vinegar,  a 
a  little  sugar,  mustard  and  spice  ;  set  away  until  Sunday 
evening  for  tea;  slice  cold.  Lambs'  tongues  are  nice  done  in 
the  same  way. 


30 


Meats. 


LAMB  CHOPS. 

Trim  neatly,  broil  over  a  clear  fire,  season  with  pepper  and 
salt,  and  serve  with  green  peas.  The  chops  may  be  arranged 
on  the  platter  in  the  form  of  an  oval  with  the  bones  lapping 
one  over  another. 

LAMB  CHOPS— FRIED. 

Very  nice.  Put  in  warm  spider,  let  cook  slowly  for  half 
an  hour,  pepper  and  salt;  make  gravy  as  for  steak;  serve  hot. 

LAMB  STEWED  WITH  PEAS. 

Cut  the  neck  or  breast  in  pieces,  put  it  in  a  stew-pan  with 
some  salt  pork  sliced  thin,  and  enough  water  to  cover  it;  cover 
close  and  let  stew  till  the  meat  is  tender,  then  skim  free  from 
scum,  add  a  quart  of  green  peas,  shelled,  and  more  hot  water 
if  necessary;  cover  till  the  peas  are  done  tender,  then  add  a 
bit  of  butter  rolled  in  flour,  and  pepper  to  taste;  let  simmer 
for  a  few  minutes  and  serve. 

LIVER— CHOPPED. 

Fry  liver  cut  in  small  pieces  with  slices  of  pork;  cut  both 
into  square  bits,  nearly  cover  with  water,  add  a  little  lemon 
juice  and  pepper,  thicken  the  gravy  with  fine  bread-crumbs  or 
browned  flour,  and  serve. 

LIVER— FRIED. 

Cut  in  thin  slices  and  place  on  a  platter,  pour  on  boiling 
water  and  immediately  pour  it  off  (sealing  the  outside,  taking 
away  the  unpleasant  flavor  and  making  it  much  more  palat- 
able) ;  have  read}T  in  skillet  on  the  stove  some  hot  lard  or 
beef  drippings,  or  both  together,  dredge  the  liver  with  rolled 
crackers  or  dried  bread-crumbs  rolled  fine  and  nicely  seasoned 
with  pepper  and  salt,  put  in  skillet,  placing  the  tin  cover  on, 
fry  slowly  until  both  sides  are  dark  brown,  when  the  liver  will 
be  thoroughly  cooked.  The  time  required  is  about  a  quarter 
of  an  hour. 


Meats. 


31 


MUTTON— BOILED,  WITH  CAPER  SAUCE. 

Have  ready  a  pot  of  boiling  water  aud  throw  in  a  handful 
of  salt;  wash  a  leg  of  mutton  and  rub  salt  through  it.  If  it 
is  to  be  rare,  cook  about  two  hours ;  if  well  done,  three  hours 
or  longer,  according  to  size.  Boil  a  pint  of  milk,  thicken  with 
flour  well  blended,  add  butter,  salt,  pepper,  and  two  table- 
spoons of  capers,  or  mint-sauce,  if  preferred. 

PORK  AND  BEANS. 

Pick  over  carefully  a  quart  of  beans  and  let  them  soak  over 
night;  in  the  morning  wash  and  drain  in  another  water,  put 
on  to  boil  in  cold  water  with  half  a  tea-spoon  of  soda,  boil 
thirty  minutes,  drain  and  put  them  in  an  earthen  pot  with  two 
table-spoons  of  molasses.  When  half  the  beans  are  in  the  pot, 
put  in  the  dish  half  or  three-fourths  of  a  pound  of  well  washed 
salt  pork,  with  the  rind  cut  in  slices ;  cover  all  with  hot  water 
and  bake  six  hours  or  longer  in  a  moderate  oven;  they  cannot 
be  baked  too  long.  Keep  covered  so  that  they  will  not  burn 
on  the  top.  Serve  in  the  dish  in  which  they  are  cooked,  and 
always  have  enough  left  over  to  know  the  luxury  of  cold 
beans,  or  baked  beans  warmed  over.  If  salt  pork  is  too  robust 
for  the  appetites  to  be  served,  season  delicately  with  salt, 
pepper,  and  a  little  butter,  and  roast  a  fresh  spare-rib  to  serve 
with  them. 

SPARE-RIB  POT-PIE. 

Cut  the  spare-ribs  once  across  and  then  in  strips  three  or 
four  inches  wide,  put  on  in  kettle  with  hot  water  enough  to 
cover,  stew  until  tender,  season  with  salt  and  pepper,  and  turn 
out  of  kettle;  replace  a. layer  of  spare-ribs  in  the  bottom,  add 
a  layer  of  peeled  potatoes  (quartered  if  large),  some  bits  of 
butter,  some  small  squares  of  baking-powder  dough  rolled 
quite  thin,  season  again,  then  another  layer  of  spare-ribs,  and 
so  on  until  the  kettle  is  two-thirds  full,  leaving  the  squares  of 
crust  for  the  last  layer;  then  add  the  liquor  in  which  the 
spare-ribs  were  boiled,  and  hot  water  if  needed,  cover;  boil 
half  to  three-quarters  of  an  hour,  being  careful  to  add  hot 


32 


Meats. 


water  so  as  not  to  let  it  boil  dry.  The  crust  can  be  made  of 
light  biscuit  dough,  without  egg  or  sugar,  as  follows:  Roll 
thin,  cut  out,  let  rise,  and  use  for  pie,  remembering  to  have 
plenty  of  water  in  the  kettle,  so  that  when  the  pie  is  made  and 
the  cover  on,  it  need  not  be  removed  until  dished. 

SWEETBREAD. 

Sweetbreads  should  be  soaked  in  cold  water  for  an  hour  as 
soon  as  they  come  from  market,  as  they  do  not  keep  well ;  cut 
through  each,  draw  a  piece  of  salt  pork  through  the  incision, 
and  put  on  to  boil  in  salt  water  or  soup-stock  until  thoroughly 
done;  take  off,  place  in  cold  water  for  a  few  minutes,  remove 
the  little  pipes  and  skin,  and  put  away  in  a  cold  place  until 
ready  to  cook  for  the  table.  When  wanted,  season  with  salt 
and  pepper,  roll  in  bread-crumbs,  and  fry  in  a  frying-pan,  or, 
like  dough-nuts,  in  hot  fat.  Serve  with  green  peas,  or  with  a 
gravy  made  by  pouring  a  cup  of  milk  thickened  with  flour 
into  the  frying-pan. 

Or  prepare  for  frying  as  above,  and  bake  with  pieces  of  salt 
pork,  carrot,  celery  and  parsle}7,  for  about  twenty  minutes,  and 
serve  with  fried  bread  and  peas,  or  tomato  sauce. 

Or,  prepare  as  for  frying,  slice  thin,  sprinkle  over  grated 
nutmeg  and  chopped  parsley,  dip  into  a  batter  made  of  one 
cup  milk,  one  egg,  one  cup  of  flour,  a  pinch  of  salt,  and  a  half 
tea-spoon  baking-powder,  and  fry  like  fritters. 

SWEETBREAD— LARDED. 

Lard  five  sweetbreads  with  strips  of  salt  pork,  letting  them 
project  evenly  about  half  an  inch  on  the  upper  side,  put  them 
on  the  fire  with  a  half  pint  water  and  let  them  stew  slowhT  for 
half  an  hour,  take  them  out  and  put  them  in  a  small  dripping 
pain  with  a  little  butter  and  a  sprinkle  of  flour;  brown  them 
slightly,  add  half  a  gill  of  mingled  milk  and  water,  and  season 
with  pepper;  heat  a  half  pint  of  cream  and  stir  it  in  the  gravy 
in  the  pan.  Have  peas  ready  boiled  and  seasoned,  place  the 
sweetbreads  in  the  centre  of  the  dish,  pour  the  gravy  orev 
them,  and  put  the  peas  around. 


Meats. 


33 


SWEETBREADS  WITH  TOMATOES. 

Slice  two  quarts  of  ripe  tomatoes,  and  stew  until  they 
break;  strain  through  a  sieve  into  a  sauce-pan,  and  add  four 
or  five  sweetbreads  that  have  been  well  trimmed  and  soaked 
in  warm  water;  stir  in  two  or  three  ounces  of  butter  rolled  in 
flour,  with  salt  and  cayenne  pepper  to  taste.  Just  before 
serving,  add  the  beaten  yolks  of  two  eggs;  serve  in  a  deep 
dish,  with  the  tomatoes  poured  over  the  sweetbread. 

VEAL  LOAF. 

Chop  fine  a  leg  or  loin  of  veal,  roll  one  dozen  crackers,  put 
half  of  them  in  the  veal  with  two  eggs,  pepper,  salt,  and  butter 
size  of  an  egg;  mix  all  together  and  make  into  a  solid  form; 
then  take  the  crackers  that  are  left  and  spread  smoothly  over 
the  outside;  bake  three-quarters  of  an  hour,  and  eat  cold. 

VEAL  WITH  OYSTERS. 

Two  pounds  of  tender  veal  cut  in  thin  bits,  dredge  with 
flour,  and  fry  in  sufficient  hot  lard  to  prevent  sticking;  when 
nearly  done  add  one  and  a  half  pints  of  fine  oysters,  thicken 
with  a  little  flour,  season  with  salt  and  pepper,  and  cook  until 
both  are  done.    Serve  very  hot  in  a  covered  dish. 

A  BROWN  STEW. 

Put  on  stove  a  rather  thick  piece  of  beef  with  little  bone  and 
some  fat  (any  poor  piece  will  do),  four  hours  before  needed; 
pour  on  just  boiling  water  enough  to  cover,  cover  with  a  close- 
fitting  lid,  add  a  little  salt,  and  as  the  water  boils  away,  add 
only  just  enough  from  time  to  time  to  keep  from  burning,  ,so 
that  when  the  meat  is  tender  the  water  may  be  all  boiled 
away,  as  the  fat  will  allow  the  meat  to  brown  without  burning, 
brown  over  a  slow  fire,  and  make  a  gravy  of  the  drippings,  or 
cut  down  cold  for  supper. 

FRICATELLI. 

Chop  raw  fresh  pork  very  fine,  add  a  little  salt,  plenty  of 
pepper,  and  two  small  onions  chopped  fine,  half  as  much  bread 

5 


34 


Meats. 


as  there  is  meat,  soaked  till  soft,  two  eggs  ;  mix  well  together, 
make  into  oblong  patties,  and  fry  like  oysters.  These  are 
nice  for  breakfast;  if  used  for  supper,  serve  with  sliced  lemon. 


Is  a  problem  many  housekeepers  never  solve.  Remember 
that  grease  is  not  gravy,  neither  is  raw  flour.  Almost  any 
kind  of  meat-liquor  or  soup  stock,  from  which  all  fat  has  been 
removed,  may  be  made  into  nice  gravy  by  simply  adding  a 
little  seasoning  and  some  thickening;  if  browned  flour  is  used 
for  the  latter,  the  gravy  will  require  but  little  cooking,  but, 
when  thickened  with  raw  flour,  it  must  cook  until  thoroughly 
done,  or  the  gravy  will  taste  like  so  much  gummy  paste.  It  is 
best  to  brown  a  quart  of  flour  at  a  time;  put  in  a  skillet,  set 
in  the  oven  or  on  top  of  the  stove,  stir  often  until  it  is  a  light 
brown,  put  into  a  wide-mouthed  bottle,  cork,  and  keep  for  use. 
All  gravies  should  be  well /stirred  over  a  rather  hot  fire,  as 
they  must  be  quickly  made,  and  must  boil,  not  simmer. 


Pack  the  meat  in  barrel  with  a  sprinkling  of  salt  between 
layers;  let  it  lie  three  or  four  days,  then  turn  in  the  pickle, 
made  as  follows:  For  one  hundred  pounds  meat,  take  nine 
pounds  salt,  six  gallons  water,  one  quart  molasses  (brown 
sugar  may  be  substituted)  aud  one-fourth  pound  saltpeter 
boil  together,  skim,  and  turn  on  either  hot  or  cold. 


HOW  TO  MAKE  NICE  GRAVY 


TO  CORN  BEEF. 


Game. 


GAME. 


DUCK— BOILED. 

Dress  and  rub  well  inside  with  salt  and  pepper,  truss  and 
tie  in  shape,  drawing  the  legs  in  to  the  body,  in  which  put  one 
or  two  sage  leaves,  a  little  finely  chopped  oniou,  and  a  little 
jellied  stock  or  gravy;  rub  over  with  salt  and  pepper;  make  a 
paste  in  the  proportion  of  one-half  pound  butter  to  one  pound 
flour,  in  which  enclose  the  duck,  tie  a  cloth  around  all,  and 
boil  two  hours,  or  until  quite  tender,  keeping  it  well  covered 
with  boiling  water. 

DUCK— ROASTED. 

Ducks  are  dressed  and  stuffed  in  the  same  manner  as  poultry, 
or  a  stuffing  of  mashed  potatoes  and  onions,  in  equal  propor- 
tions, seasoned  with  butter,  pepper,  sage  and  salt,  may  be 
used.  Young  ducks  should  roast  from  twenty-five  to  thirty 
minutes;  full-grown  for  an  hour  or  more,  with  frequent 
basting.  Some  prefer  them  underdone,  served  very  hot,  but 
thorough  cooking  will  prove  more  generally  palatable.  Serve 
with  currant  jelly,  apple  sauce  and  green  peas.  If  old,  parboil 
before  roasting. 

Place  the  remains  of  a  cold  roast  duck  in  a  stew-pan  with  a 
pint  of  gravy  and  a  little  sage,  cover  closely,  and  let  it  simmer 
for  half  an  hour;  add  a  pint  of  boiled  green  peas,  stew  a  few 
minutes,  remove  to  dish,  and  pour  over  it  the  gravy  and  peas. 

FROGS. 

Frogs  may  be  broiled,  or  made  into  a  fricasee  seasoned  with 
tomato  catsup.  The  hind  legs  alone  are  eaten,  and  are  a  great 
delicacy. 


:0 


Game, 


HARE—  JUGGED. 

Skin,  cut  in  pieces,  strew  with  pepper  and  salt,  fry  brown, 
season  with  two  anchovies,  a  sprig  of  thyme,  a  little  chopped 
parsley,  nutmeg,  mace,  cloves,  and  grated  lemon  peel.  Put  a 
la}'er  of  the  pieces  with  the  seasoning  into  a  jug,  then  a  layer 
of  bacon  sliced  very  thin,  and  so  on  until  all  is  used;  add  a 
scant  half  pint  of  water,  cover  the  jug  close  and  put  in  cold 
water,  let  boil  three  or  four  hours,  according  to  the  age  of  the 
hare;  take  the  jug  out  of  kettle,  pick  out  the  unmelted  bacon, 
and  make  a  gravy  of  a  little  butter  and  flour  with  a  little 
catsup.    A  tea-spoon  of  lemon  peel  will  heighten  the  flavor. 

PARTRIDGE  PIE. 

Line  a  deep  baking  dish  with  veal  cutlets,  and  over  them 
place  thin  slices  of  ham  and  a  seasoning  of  pepper  and  salt; 
pluck,  draw,  wipe  and  quarter  four  partridges,  rub  each  part 
with  a  seasoning  of  pepper,  salt,  minced  parsley  and  butter; 
put  in  baking  dish,  pour  over  them  a  pint  of  strong  soup- 
stock,  line  the  edges  of  the  dish  with  a  light  puff  paste,  cover 
with  the  same,  brush  over  with  the  yolk  of  an  egg,  and  bake 
one  hour.  If  the  paste  is  in  danger  of  becoming  too  brown, 
cover  with  a  thick  paper. 

PHEASANT  OR  PRAIRIE  CHICKEN— BROILED. 

Scald  and  skin,  cut  off  the  breast  and  cut  the  rest  up  in 
joints,  being  careful  to  remove  all  shot  ;  put  in  hot  water  all 
except  the  breast  (which  will  be  tender  enough  without  par- 
boiling), and  boil  until  it  can  be  pierced  with  fork,  take  out, 
rub  over  salt,  pepper  and  butter,  and  broil  with  breast  over 
brisk  fire;  place  a  lump  of  butter  on  each  piece,  and  set  all 
in  the  oven  for  a  few  minutes.  For  breakfast  serve  on  fried 
mush,  and  for  dinner  on  toast,  with  a  bit  of  currant  jelly  over 
each  piece.  Or  it  in  ay  be  served  with  toast  cut  in  pieces 
about  two  inches  square,  over  which  pour  gravy  made  by 
thickening  the  liquor  in  which  the  birds  were  boiled,  with  a 
little  butter  and  flour  rubbed  together  and  stirred  in  while 
boiling.    Squirrels  niay  be  prepared  the  same  way. 


Game. 


37 


PIGEONS— JUGGED. 

Truss  and  season  the  pigeons  with  pepper  and  salt,  and 
having  stuffed  them  with  a  mixture  of  their  own  livers,  shred 
with  beef  suet,  bread  crumbs,  parsley,  marjoram,  and  two 
eggs;  sew  them  up  at  both  ends,  and  put  them  into  the  jug 
the  breast  downward,  with  half  a  pound  of  butter.  Stop  up 
the  jug,  so  that  no  steam  may  get  out;  then  set  them  in  a  pot 
of  water  to  stew.  They  will  take  two  hours  or  more  in  doing, 
and  they  must  boil  all  the  time.  When  stewed  enough,  take 
them  out  of  the  gravy,  skim  off  the  fat  clean,  put  in  a  spoonful 
of  cream,  a  little  lemon  peel,  an  anchovy  shred,  a  few  mush- 
rooms; add  a  little  white  wine  to  the  gravy,  and  having 
thickened  it  with  butter  and  flour,  and  dished  up  the  pigeons, 
pour  the  sauce  over  them.    Garnish  with  sliced  lemon. 

PIGEON  PIE. 

Boil  pigeons,  season  and  thicken  gravy,  line  a  deep  dish 
with  pastry  like  biscuit  crust,  pour  in  pigeons,  cover  with 
crust,  bake  one-half  hour.    It  is  a  delicious  dish. 

Quails  can  be  cooked  the  same  way,  or  broiled. 

PIGEONS — ROASTED. 
Stuff  pigeons,  wrap  in  brown  paper,  bake  one  hour.  Serve 
with  brown  gravy. 

PRAIRIE  CHICKENS. 

Cut  out  all  shot,  wash  thoroughly  but  quickly,  using  some 
soda  in  the  water,  rinse  and  dry,  fill  with  dressing,  sew  up 
with  cotton  thread,  and  tie  down  the  legs  and  wings;  place  in 
a  steamer  over  hot  water  till  done,  remove  to  a  dripping-pan, 
cover  with  butter,  sprinkle  with  salt  and  pepper,  dredge  with 
flour,  place  in  the  oven  and  baste  with  the  melted  butter  until 
a  nice  brown;  serve  with  either  apple-sauce,  cranberries,  or 
currant  jelly. 

QUAIL— BROILED. 

Split  through  the  back  and  broil  over  a  hot  fire,  basting 
frequently  with  butter.    When  done  place  a  bit  of  butter  on 


38 


Game, 


each  piece,  and  set  in  oven  a  few  moments  to  brown.  Serve 
on  pieces  of  toast  with  currant  jelly.  Plovers  are  cooked  in 
the  same  way.  Pigeons  should  he  first  parboiled  and  then 
broiled. 

QUAIL  ON  TOAST. 

Cook  quail  in  a  little  salt  water;  take  out  and  broil.  Serve 
on  toast.  Pepper,  salt,  and  melted  butter  poured  over  is  very 
nice;  or  make  a  brown  gravy. 

RABBIT— ROASTED. 

The  rabbit  should  be  laid  in  salt  water  to  remove  the 
surface  blood;  take  out,  rub  dry,  and  stuff  the  same  as 
turkey;  roast  one  hour;  cover,  while  roasting,  with  brown 
paper.    Serve  with  gravy. 

SQUIRREL  PIE. 

Clean  squirrel ;  lay  in  salt  and  water  one  hour,  take  out  and 
wash;  stew  until  tender,  season  with  pepper  and  salt  and 
thicken,  then  put  into  dish,  cover  with  nice  paste,  and  bake. 
Serve  in  dish  it  is  baked  in.    Squirrels  are  very  nice  broiled. 

VENISON  HAMS. 

These  are  prepared  in  the  same  way  as  mutton  hams,  not 
allowing  quite  as  much  salt. 

VENISON  ROUND. 

To  cook  a  round  of  venison,  remove  all  the  fat,  season  well; 
roast  in  a  quick  oven  till  well  done.  Serve  with  currant  or 
grape  jelly. 

VENISON  STEAK. 

Have  the  venison  steak  one  inch  thick,  trim  off  all  the  fat, 
pound  a  little,  season  with  pepper  and  salt,  have  3^our  gridiron 
hot  and  broil  over  a  quick  fire.  Serve  with  melted  butter, 
pepper  and  salt,  with  a  little  jelly  stirred  into  gravy.  Have 
platter  very  hot. 


Poultry. 


39 


POULTRY. 


Fresh,  plump  poultry  should  be  chosen.  The  breast-bone 
of  a  young  fowl  is  very  flexible  to  the  touch,  increasing  in 
stiffness  with  age.  The  claws  of  a  young  fowl  taper  neatly  to 
a  point;  in  an  old  one  they  are  worn  blunt  by  scratching. 
The  skin  of  a  young  fowl,  pinched  between  the  thumb  and 
finger  nails,  is  easily  broken;  that  of  an  old  one  resists  like 
india  rubber.  A  fowl  should  be  dressed  the  day  before  it  is 
to  be  cooked.  To  dress  a  fowl,  scald  thoroughly  in  boiling 
water,  pluck  out  the  feathers,  singe  off  the  down  over  a  blaze, 
wash  with  a  coarse  cloth,  rinse,  and  rub  dry.  Cut  crosswise 
at  the  end  of  the  breast  bone  and  draw  out  the  entrails ;  cut  a 
slit  in  the  breast  as  far  back  as  you  can,  and  remove  the  craw; 
rinse  in  cold  water.  It  is  then  ready  for  stuffing.  When  game 
or  chickens  are  to  be  broiled,  cut  open  at  the  back;  for  frying 
or  stewing,  cut  in  pieces. 

CHICKEN— BAKED. 
Dress  the  chickens  and  cut  them  in  two,  soak  for  half  an 
hour  in  cold  water,  wipe  perfectly  dry  and  put  in  a  dripping- 
pan,  bone  side  down,  without  any  water;  have  a  hot  oven,  and 
if  the  chickens  are  young  half  an  hour's  cooking  will  be  suffi- 
cient. Take  out  and  season  with  butter,  salt,  and  pepper; 
pack  one  above  another  as  closely  as  possible,  and  place  in 
pan  over  boiling  water,  covering  them  closely — this  keeps 
them  moist  until  served — boil  the  giblets  in  a  little  water, 
and,  after  the  chickens  are  taken  from  the  dripping-pan,  put 
into  it  the  water  in  which  the  giblets  were  boiled,  thicken  it, 
and  add  the  chopped  giblets.  This  way  of  baking  chickens 
is  fully  equal  to  broiling  them. 

CHICKEN  OR  QUAIL— BROILED. 
Cut  chicken  open  on  back,  lay  on  the  meat  board  and  pound 
until  it  will  lie  flat,  lay  on  gridiron,  place  over  a  bed  of  coals, 


40 


Poultry. 


broil  until  a  nice  brown,  but  do  not  burn;  it  will  take  thirty 
minutes  to  cook  thoroughly,  and  it  will  cook  much  better  to 
cover  it  over.  While  the  chicken  is  broiling,  put  the  liver, 
gizzard,  and  heart  into  a  stew  pan;  when  done  chop  fine, 
add  flour,  butter,  pepper,  and  salt,  together  making  a  gravy. 
When  the  chicken  is  done  put  on  a  hot  platter,  and  pour  gravy 
over,  or  serve  in  a  separate  dish.  We  like  a  little  cream  added 
to  the  gravy.    Quails  are  done  in  the  same  way. 

CHICKEN  CROQUETTES. — 3Irs.  Robert  Saltsman. 

One-half  pound  cold  chicken  chopped  fine;  fry  quarter  of 
a  grated  onion  with  a  teaspoon  of  butter,  stir  the  onion  until  it 
begins  to  turn  yellow,  add  tea-spoon  flour,  stir  a  few  minutes 
longer,  add  large  coffee-cup  of  broth,  then  stir  in  chopped 
meat,  salt  to  taste;  cook  ten  minutes  longer,  stirring  all  the 
time;  add  grated  nutmeg  and  cayenne  pepper,  and  stir  in  the 
yolks  of  two  eggs,  give  it  one  hard  boil  and  put  in  dish  to 
cool;  form  into  nuts  with  cracker  dust  and  the  white  of  one 
egg;  fry  in  boiling  hot  lard. 

CHICKEN— FRICASSEED.— Pennsylvania  Style. 

Cut  up  and  put  on  to  boil  in  a  small  quantity  of  water  one 
chicken ;  stew  until  tender,  season  with  salt  and  pepper,  and 
butter  and  flour  rubbed  to  a  cream,  thicken  slowly,  let  boil  a 
few  moments;  have  ready  some  nice  baking-powder  biscuits, 
split  open,  lay  on  platter  and  pour  over  the  gravy,  lay  on  top 
the  chicken ;  serve  hot.    This  is  a  delicious  dish. 

CHICKEN  PIE. 

Cut  up  two  young  chickens,  place  in  hot  water  enough  to 
cover,  boil  until  tender;  line  a  four  or  five  quart  pan  with  a 
rich  baking-powder  or  soda-biscuit  dough  quarter  of  an  inch 
thick,  put  in  part  of  chicken,  season  with  salt,  pepper  and 
butter;  lay  in  a  few  thin  strips  or  squares  of  dough,  add  the 
rest  of  chicken  and  season  as  before;  some  add  five  or  six 
fresh  eggs,  or  a  few  new  potatoes  in  their  season;  season 
liquor  in  which  the  chickens  were  boiled  with  butter,  salt, 


Poultry. 


41 


and  pepper,  add  a  part  of  it  to  the  pie,  cover  with  crust  a 
quarter  of  an  inch  thick,  with  a  hole  in  the  centre  the  size  of 
a  tea-cup.  Keep  adding  the  chicken  liquor,  and  hot  water,  if 
needed,  since  the  fault  of  most  chicken  pies  is  that  they  are 
too  dry.  There  can  scarcely  be  too  much  gravy.  Bake  one 
hour  in  a  moderate  oven,  having  the  heat  turned  to  the 
bottom,  as  great  care  is  necessary  to  have  the  bottom  crust 
well  baked. 

CHICKEN  PIE. — Mrs.  I.  W.  Hart. 

Three  chickens  cut  up  and  boiled  till  tender;  season  with 
pepper  and  salt;  make  a  thickening  for  gravy  by  rubbing  one- 
quarter  pound  butter  and  six  table-spoons  flour  to  a  paste,  put 
this  in  gravy  while  boiling,  a  little'  at  a  time,  so  as  to  prevent 
its  being  lumpy;  then  take  a  six-quart  pan,  line  sides  either 
with  biscuit  dough  or  baking-powder  crust,  put  in  chicken 
and  gravy,  cover  with  same  dough  and  bake  one  hour.  In 
using  biscuit  dough  add  shortenino-  enough  to  make  tender. 

CHICKEN  PIE  WITH  OYSTERS. 

Boil  the  chicken  (one  a  year  old  is  best)  until  tender;  line 
dish  with  nice  crust  (made  just  as  you  make  baking-powder 
biscuit),  put  in  chicken  and  gravy,  season  with  pepper  and 
salt  and  a  little  butter,  put  on  top  crust,  bake  one  hour.  Just 
about  twenty  minutes  before  pie  is  done  lift  up  crust  and  put 
in  your  oysters.    It  is  very  nice  without  the  oysters. 

Some,  in  making  chicken  or  meat  pies,  line  the  dish  with  the 
lower  crust,  and  place  in  the  oven  until  well  "  set,"  then  fill, 
cover,  and  bake ;  others,  instead  of  lining  the  entire  surface  of 
the  dish,  line  only  the  sides. 

The  garnishes  for  turkey  and  chicken  are  parsley,  slices  of 
lemon,  fried  sausage,  or  forced-meat  balls. 

CHICKEN  POT-PIE. 

Cut  up  a  chicken  and  put  on  in  cold  water  enough  to  cover, 
and  take  care  that  it  does  not  cook  dry;  while  boiling  cut  off 
a  slice  of  bread  dough,  add  a  small  lump  of  lard,  and  mix  up 

6 


42 


Poultry. 


like  light  biscuit,  roll,  cut  out  with  cake-cutter  and  set  by 
stove  to  rise;  wash  and  pare  potatoes  of  moderate  size,  and 
add  them  when  chicken  is  almost  done;  when  potatoes  begin 
to  boil  season  with  salt  and  pepper,  add  dumplings,  and  season 
again.  See  that  there  is  water  enough  to  keep  from  burning, 
cover  very  tightly,  and  do  not  take  off  until  dumplings  are 
done.  Make  dumplings  like  baking  powder  biscuit.  Serve 
at  once. 

CHICKEN— PRESSED. 

Take  two  chickens,  boil  till  tender,  remove  bones,  chop  fiue, 
season  with  parsley,  pepper,  salt,  rolled  cracker  and  two  eggs ; 
put  into  pan. 

CHICKEN  OR  VEAL— PRESSED. 

Put  four  pounds  of  veal  or  two  chickens  into  a  kettle,  cover 
with  water,  boil  slowly  until  the  meat  drops  from  the  bone, 
then  take  it  out  and  pick  it  up  fine.  Let  the  liquor  boil  down 
until  there  is  but  a  cupful;  put  in  a  small  cup  of  butter,  a  table- 
spoonful  of  salt,  a  table-spoonful  of  pepper,  a  little  allspice  and 
a  beaten  egg,  stir  this  through  the  meat;  slice  a  hard-boiled 
egg,  lay  in  your  mould  and  press  in  the  meat.  When  put 
upon  the  table  garnish  with  celery  tops  or  parsley. 

CHICKEN— STEAMED. 

Rub  the  chicken  on  the  inside  with  pepper  and  half  tea- 
spoon of  salt,  place  in  steamer  in  a  kettle  that  will  keep  it  as 
near  the  water  as  possible,  cover,  and  steam  an  hour  and  a 
half;  when  done  keep  hot  while  dressing  is  prepared,  then  cut 
them  up,  arrange  on  the  platter,  and  serve  with  the  dressing 
over  them.  The  dressing  is  made  as  follows  :  Boil  one  pint 
of  gravy  from  the  kettle  without  the  fat,  add  cayenne  pepper 
and  half  a  tea-spoon  salt;  stir  six  table-spoons  of  flour  into  a 
quarter  pint  of  cream  until  smooth,  and  add  to  the  gravy. 
Corn  starch  may  be  used  instead  of  the  flour,  and  some  add 
nutmeg  or  celery  salt. 


Poultry. 


43 


SPRING  CHICKEN— FRIED. 

Put  skillet  on  the  stove  with  about  one-half  table-spoon 
each  of  lard  and  butter,  when  hot  lay  in  chicken,  sprinkle  over 
with  flour,  salt  and  pepper,  place  lid  on  skillet  and  cook  over 
a  moderate  fire;  when  a  light  brown,  turn  the  chicken  and 
sprinkle  flour,  salt  and  pepper  over  the  top  as  at  first,  if  neces- 
sary add  more  lard  and  butter,  and  cook  slowly  until  done; 
make  gravy  just  the  same  as  for  baked  chicken.  As  a  general 
rule  half  an  hour  is  long  enough  to  fry  spring  chicken.  To 
make  rich  and  nice  gravy  without  cream,  take  the  yolk  of  an 
egg,  beat  up  light,  strain  and  stir  slowly  into  the  gravy  after 
the  flour  and  milk  have  been  stirred  in  and  thoroughly 
cooked;  as  soon  as  it  boils  up  the  gravy  is  done,  and  should 
be  removed  from  the  stove.  All  gravies  need  to  be  stirred  well 
and  thoroughly  cooked  over  a  moderate  fire. 

TURKEY— BOILED,  STUFFED  WITH  OYSTERS. 

Wash  the  turkey  thoroughly  and  rub  salt  through  it;  fill 
with  a  dressing  of  bread  cut  fine,  seasoned  with  pepper,  salt, 
and  oysters ;  mix  lightly ;  boil  three  hours,  serve  with  oyster 
sauce.    Some  prefer  the  oysters  left  out. 

TURKEY — BONED. — No.  1. 

With  a  sharp  knife  slit  the  skin  down  the  back,  and  raising- 
one  side  at  a  time  with  the  fingers,  separate  the  flesh  from  the 
bones  with  knife  until  the  wings  and  legs  are  reached.  These 
unjoint  from  the  body,  and  cutting  through  to  the  bone,  turn 
back  the  flesh  and  remove  the  bones.  When  the  bones  are 
removed,  the  flesh  may  be  reshaped  by  stuffing.  Some  leave 
the  bones  in  the  legs  and  wings,  as  they  are  most  difficult  to 
remove.  Stuff  with  force-meat  made  of  cold  lamb  or  veal  and 
a  little  pork,  chopped  fine  and  seasoned  with  salt,  pepper,  sage 
or  savory,  and  the  juice  of  one  lemon;  sew  into  shape,  turn 
ends  of  wings  under  and  press  the  legs  close  to  the  back,  and 
tie  all  firmly  so  that  the  upper  surface  may  be  plump  and 
smooth  for  the  carver.    Lard  with  two  or  three  rows  on  the 


Poultry. 


top,  and  bake  until  thoroughly  done,  basting  often  with  salt 
and  water,  and  a  little  butter.  This  is  a  difficult  dish  to 
attempt.    Carve  across  in  slices  and  serve  with  tomato  sauce. 

TURKEY— BOXED.—  No.  2. 

Boil  a  turkey  in  as  little  water  as  possible  until  the  bones 
can  be  easily  separated  from  the  meat,  remove  all  the  skin  and 
slice,  mixing  together  all  the  light  and  dark  parts,  and  season 
with  salt  and  pepper;  take  the  liquid  in  which  the  turkey  was 
boiled  (having  kept  it  warm),  pour  it  on  the  meat,  mix  well, 
shape  into  a  loaf,  wrap  in  a  cloth,  or  put  into  an  oval  shaped 
dish,  and  press  for  a  few  hours.  A  spoonful  of  butter  and 
flour  braided  together  and  stirred  into  the  water  before  boil- 
ing is  an  improvement.  When  served  cut  into  thin  slices  and 
garnish  with  parsley. 

TURKEY-  ROASTED. 

After  picking  and  singeing  the  turkey,  plump  it  by  plunging 
it  quickly  three  times  into  boiling  water  and  then  three  times 
into  cold,  holding  it  by  the  legs;  place  to  drain,  and  dress  as 
in  general  directions ;  prepare  stuffing  by  taking  pieces  of  dry 
bread  and  crust  (not  too  brown)  cut  off  a  loaf  of  bread  fully 
three  or  four  days  old  (but  not  mouldy):  place  crust  and 
pieces  in  a  pan  and  pour  on  a  very  little  boiling  water,  cover 
tightly  and  let  bake  three  hours.  3Iake  gravy  by  chopping 
up  the  gizzard,  liver  and  heart,  and  mixing  with  a  little  flour : 
mix  into  gravy  and  serve. 


Salads. 


45 


SALADS. 


TN  preparing  the  dressing  powder  the  hard-boiled  eggs  either 
^  in  a  mortar  or  by  mashing  with  the  back  of  a  silver  spoon, 
(if  raw  eggs  are  used  beat  well  and  strain),  add  the  seasoning, 
then  the  oil,  a  few  drops  at  a  time,  and,  lastly  and  gradually, 
the  vinegar.  Always  use  the  freshest  olive  salad  oil,  not  the 
common  sweet  oil ;  if  it  cannot  be  obtained,  melted  butter  is  a 
good  substitute  and  by  some  considered  even  more  palatable, 
but  when  used  it  should  be  added  last  of  all.  In  making 
chicken  salad  use  the  oil  off  the  water  in  which  the  chickens 
were  boiled.  It  is  much  nicer  to  cut  the  meat  instead  of  chop- 
ping, always  removing  bits  of  gristle,  fat  and  skin. 

BEAN  SALAD. — Mrs.  P.  H. 

String  young  beans,  cut  into  half-inch  pieces,  wash  and 
cook  soft  in  salt  water,  drain  well,  add  finely-chopped  onions, 
pepper,  salt  and  vinegar;  when  cool  add  olive  oil  or  melted 
butter. 

CABBAGE  SALAD. — Mrs.  H.  Beckman. 

Two  quarts  finely  chopped  cabbage,  two  level  table-spoons 
salt,  two  of  white  sugar,  one  of  black  pepper,  and  a  heaping 
one  of  ground  mustard;  rub  yolks  of  four  hard-boiled  eggs 
until  smooth,  add  half  cup  butter  slightly  warmed;  mix  thor- 
oughly with  the  cabbage,  and  add  tea-cup  good  vinegar;  serve 
with  whites  of  the  eggs  sliced  and  placed  on  the  salad. 

CHICKEN  SALAD— No.  1.— Mrs.  J.  C.  31  ar shall. 

For  one  chicken — four  cooked  eggs  and  six  raw  ones,  one 
tea-spoon  of  mustard,  one  pint  of  oil;  boil  the  eggs  twenty 
minutes,  take  one  yolk  at  a  time,  working  it  smooth  with  the 
oil ;  then  add  the  raw  yolks,  putting  in  a  small  quantity  of  oil 


AG 


Salads. 


at  a  time  until  they  are  well  mixed,  then  add  the  oil  more 
freely — as  much  as  will  mix  well:  cook  the  mustard  in 
vinegar,  stirring  it  all  the  time  until  it  thickens,  and  add. 
after  the  oil  is  all  worked  in,  a  little  salt  and  a  little  vinegar 
or  lemon  juice. 

CHICKEN  SALAD— No.  2. 

Quarter  of  a  head  of  cabbage,  two  good  sized  chickens,  three 
bunches  of  celery;  chop  the  chickens,  celery,  cabbage,  and 
whites  of  four  eggs  very  fine;  then  add  half  cup  of  butter,  two 
tablespoonsful  of  mustard  well  mixect  with  yolks  of  four  eggs, 
one  pint  of  vinegar;  salt  and  pepper  to  taste. 

CHICKEN  SALAD— No.  3. 

One  chicken,  one  bunch  of  celery,  three  eggs,  vinegar,  salt, 
pepper,  oil. 

CHICKEN  SALAD— No.  4. 

Chop  fine  one  chicken  cooked  tender,  one  head  cabbage,  and 
five  cold  hard-boiled  eggs;  season  with  salt,  pepper  and  mus- 
tard to  taste;  warm  one  pint  vinegar,  add  half  a  tea-cup 
butter,  stir  until  melted,  pour  hot  over  the  mixture,  stir  thor- 
oughly, and  set  away  to  cool. 

CHICKEN  SALAD— No.  ro.—Rosina  M.  Brown. 

Take  three  chickens  weighing  about  four  pounds  each,  boil 
until  done,  let  cool,  pick  (not  too  fine),  and  mix  with  equal 
quantity  of  celery  dressing.  Boil  two  dozen  eggs  until  hard : 
take  one  yolk  at  a  time  and  mix  with  salad  oil,  a  few  drops  at 
a  time,  until  all  the  }Tolks  are  mixed  with  a  large  bottle  of  oil; 
then  add  raw  yolks,  one  at  a  time,  and  a  little  oil,  as  before, 
until  you  have  added  four  dozen  raw  yolks  and  another  laro-e 
bottle  of  oil;  add  one  table-spoon  salt,  a  little  cayenne  pepper, 
and  mustard  cooked  in  vinegar  the  day  before,  until  it  suits 
taste;  if  more  acid  is  needed  add  a  little  vinegar  or  lemon 
juice  just  before  pouring  over  the  meat,  which  should  be  done 
just  before  serving.  This  quantity  will  be  sufficient  to  serve 
thirty- five  people. 


Salads. 


47 


COLD  SLAW,  OR  SALAD  DRESSING. 

One  egg,  two-thirds  of  a  cup  of  sweet  milk,  one-half  tea- 
spoonful  of  salt,  one-fourth  tea-spoonful  of  mustard,  sugar  to 
taste;  let  this  come  to  a  boil  and  while  hot  stir  in  vinegar  to 
taste;  when  perfectly  cold  pour  over  the  fine  chopped  cabbage. 
This  makes  enough  for  seven  or  eight  persons.  More  eggs 
can  be  added  for  those  who  like  more.  Excellent. 

COLD  SLAW— PLAIN. 

Slice  cabbage  very  fine,  season  with  salt,  pepper,  and  a  little 
sugar;  pour  over  vinegar  and  mix  thoroughly.  It  is  nice 
served  in  the  centre  of  a  platter  with  fried  oysters  around  it. 

COLD  SLAW. 

Cut  your  cabbage  fine,  put  in  a  dish,  sprinkle  salt  over. 
One  tea-spoon  sugar,  half  tea-spoon  mixed  mustard,  half  tea- 
spoon of  Hour,  half  tea-cup  sweet  cream,  same  of  vinegar,  and 
a  small  piece  of  butter;  beat  all  together  and  let  come  to  a 
boil;  pour  over  cabbage  when  cold. 

CREAM  DRESSING  FOR  COLD  SLAW.- 

Two  table-spoons  whipped  cream,  two  of  sugar,  and  four  of 
vinegar;  beat  well  and  pour  over  cabbage,  previously  cut  very 
fine  and  seasoned  with  salt. 

CREAM  SLAW. — 3Irs.  B. 

One  gallon  cabbage  cut  very  fine,  pint  vinegar,  pint  sour 
cream,  half  cup  sugar,  tea-spoon  flour,  two  eggs,  and  a  piece 
of  butter  the  size  of  a  walnut;  put  vinegar,  sugar  and  butter 
in  a  sauce-pan  and  let  boil;  stir  the  eggs,  cream  and  flour, 
previously  well  mixed,  into  the  vinegar,  boil  thoroughly  and 
throw  over  the  cabbage  previously  sprinkled  with  one  table- 
spoon salt,  one  of  black  pepper,  and  one  of  mustard. 

CUCUMBER  SALAD. — Mrs.  H.  B. 

Peel  and  slice  cucumbers,  mix  with  salt  and  let  stand  half 
an  hour;  mix  two  table-spoons  sweet  oil  or  ham  gravy  with  as 


48 


Salads. 


much  vinegar  and  a  tea-spoon  sugar;  add  the  cucumbers, 
which  should  be  drained  a  little;  add  a  tea-spoon  pepper  and 
stir  well.   Sliced  onions  are  an  addition  if  their  flavor  is  liked. 

HAM  SALAD. — Mrs.  L. 

Cut  up  small  bits  of  boiled  ham,  place  in  salad-bowl  with 
the  hearts  and  inside  leaves  of  a  head  of  lettuce.  Make  dress- 
ing as  follows:  Mix  in  a  sauce-pan  one  pint  sour  cream  as 
free  from  milk  as  possible,  and  half  pint  good  vinegar,  pepper, 
salt. 

LOBSTER  SALAD— No.  1. 

Boil  a  large  lobster  (when  done  it  will  be  of  a  bright  red 
color,  and  should  be  removed,  as  if  boiled  too  long  it  will  be 
tough),  crack  the  claws  after  first  disjointing,  split  the  body 
in  two  lengthwise,  pick  out  the  meat  in  bits  not  too  fine, 
saving  the  coral  separate;  cut  up  a  large  head  of  lettuce 
slightly,  and  place  on  a  dish  over  which  lay  the  lobster, 
putting  the  coral  around  the  outside.  For  dressing,  take  the 
yolks  of  three  eggs,  beat  well,  add  four  table-spoons  salad  oil, 
dropping  it  in  very  slowly,  beating  all  the  time;  then  add  a 
little  salt,  cayenne  pepper,  half  tea-spoon  mixed  mustard,  and 
two  table-spoons  vinegar.  Pour  this  over  the  lobster  just 
before  sending  to  table. 

LOBSTER  SALAD— No.  2. 

Boil  the  lobster,  five  minutes  for  every  pound,  in  water  to 
which  have  been  added,  for  a  five-pound  one,  four  sprigs  of 
parsley,  two  of  thyme,  two  cloves,  four  onions  cut  in  slices, 
salt,  pepper,  and  a  tea-spoon  vinegar;  leave  the  lobster  in  till 
cold,  then  take  off  and  drain  it.  Chop  the  lobster  fine  after 
removing  it  from  the  shell,  and  add  two  heads  of  minced 
lettuce,  half  a  cup  of  melted  butter,  two  table-spoons  mustard, 
salt  and  pepper  to  taste.  Place  in  a  dish,  and  over  all  pour 
half  a  pint  of  vinegar,  into  which  six  well-beaten  eggs  have 
been  stirred  and  heated  until  it  is  thick.  This  should  be  cold 
when  it  is  put  on  the  lobster. 


Salads. 


49 


OYSTER  SALAD.--.JiVs.  John  M.  Clark,  Meadville. 
One-half  can  oysters  scalded  in  their  liquur;  when  ruffled 
pour  into  a  colander  to  drain;  when  quite  cold  cut  them  in 
small  pieces  and  mix  with  a  cup  of  cold  chicken  or  turkey  and 
a  cup  of  celery,  all  cut  as  for  chicken  salad.  Make  a  dressing 
of  three  hard-boiled  eggs,  one  table-spoon  of  butter,  two  of 
mustard,  and  two  of  vinegar,  pepper  and  salt  to  taste;  pour 
over  oysters  just  before  serving. 

OYSTER  SALAD — Mrs.  Robert  Salesman.  • 
One  can  oysters,  fixed  and  fried  same  as  for  table  when 
cold.    Cut  up  fine  same  amount  celery  chopped  fine. 

Salad  Dressing. — Three  eggs,  one  cup  vinegar,  one  cup 
■  cream,  tea-spoon  mustard.    Mix  all  together;  boil  until  thick, 
mix  with  celery  and  oysters. 

PICKLED  OYSTERS — No.  I.— Mrs.  Haistings,  JST.  Y. 
100  large  oysters.  4  cts  worth  whole  black  pep- 

1  pint  white  wine  vinegar.  per. 

1  dozen  blades  mace.  2  large  red  peppers  broken 

Some  whole  clones.  into  bits. 

Put  oysters,  liquor  and  all  into  a  porcelain  kettle;  salt  to 
taste.  Heat  slowly  until  oysters  are  very  hot  but  not  boiling; 
take  out  with  a  skimmer  and  set  away  to  cool.  To  the  liquor 
which  remains  in  the  kettle  add  the  vinegar,  and  spices.  Boil 
up  fairfy,  and  when  the  oysters  are  almost  cold,  pour  over  them 
boiling  hot;  cover  the  jar  in  which  they  are  put,  and  set  away 
in  cool  place  quite  dark.  They  will  keep  three  weeks  or  more, 
and  every  one  thinks  they  are  delicious. 

PICKLED  OYSTERS—  No.  2—  Mrs.  Kimble. 
Pour  the  liquor  from  the  oysters;  strain  and  boil  it,  While, 
boiling,  put  in  the  oysters;  boil  them  one  minute  and  take 
them  out.  To  the  liquor  add  a  few  peppers,  cloves,  and  a 
blade  or  two  of  mace,  a  little  salt,  and  the  same  quantity  of 
vinegar  as  oyster  juice.  Let  the  whole  boil  fifteen  minutes, 
then  turn  it  on  the  oysters.  Will  keep  a  number  of  weeks  if 
bottled  and  corked  tight  after  cooling. 

7 


50 


Salads. 


PICKLED  OYSTERS— No.  3.— Mrs.  Isaac  Moorhead,  Erie. 

Put  the  liquor  from  the  oysters  in  a  kettle,  let  come  to  a 
boil  and  skim;  then  put  in  a  few  oysters  at  a  time  and  boil 
until  they  curl,  not  more  than  a  minute;  then  take  them  out 
and  wipe  clean.  After  the  oysters  are  all  done,  strain  the 
liquor  through  a  napkin;  salt  to  taste  while  it  is  boiling;  then 
put  back  in  the  kettle  adding  vinegar,  white  pepper  whole,  and 
mace;  boil  and  pour  over  the  oysters  hot. 

In  a  hundred  oysters,  a  tea-cup  of  vinegar,  two  tea-spoons  of 
mace,  three  table-spoons  of  pepper. 

PICKLED  OYSTERS— No.  4. 

Choose  the  largest,  put  over  a  gentle  fire  in  their  own  liquor, 
add  a  small  bit  of  butter,  simmer  for  two  or  three  minutes,  and 
when  plump  and  white,  take  out  with  a  skimmer  into  a  flat 
dish ;  take  of  their  own  liquor  half  enough  to  cover,  add  as 
much  more  of  best  cider  vinegar  and  heat;  put  a  layer  of  oys- 
ters in  a  stone  jar,  strew  over  a  salt-spoon  of  ground  mace,  a 
few  cloves,  some  allspice  and  whole  pepper,  then  oysters  and 
spice  till  all  are  used.  Then  pour  over  them  the  hot  liquor 
and  set  away  in  a  cool  place.  They  may  be  used  in  a  day  or 
two,  but  wjll  remain  good  for  months  if  kept  cool. 

POTATO  SALAD. 

Peal  and  boil  twelve  or  fourteen  good  sized  potatoes;  when 
done,  cut  them  up  in  a  large  bowl,  cut  fine  one  large  onion 
or  more  if  you  like ;  add  pepper  and  salt  to  your  taste ;  two 
tea-spoons  of  made  mustard ;  mix  these  all  together  with  spoon. 
Put  a  table-spoon  of  butter  in  a  sauce  pan  on  the  fire,  when 
melted  stir  in  one  table-spoon  heaped  of  flour ;  when  it  is  a  light 
brown  add  one  egg,  one  gill  of  good  vinegar,  (egg  last) ;  don't 
let  cook  any  more  after  the  egg  is  added.  Turn  this  mixture 
over  the  potatoes  and  mix  well. 

SALAD  DRESSING — No.  1. 

One  tea-spoon  of  made  mustard,  one  tea-spoon  of  sugar,  two 
table-spoons  of  salad  oil,  a  table-spoon  of  milk,  two  of  vin- 


Salads. 


51 


egar,  cayenne  pepper  and  salt  to  taste.  Put  the  mustard  into 
a  salad  bowl  with  the  sugar,  and  add  the  oil  drop  by  drop, 
carefully  stirring  and  mixing  all  the  ingredients  well  together. 
Proceed  in  this  manner  with  the  milk  and  vinegar,  which  must 
be  added  very  gradually  or  the  sauce  will  curdle;  then  put  in 
the  seasoning  of  cayenne  and  salt.  It  ought  to  have  a  creamy 
appearance,  and  when  mixing,  the  ingredients  cannot  be  added 
too  gradually  or  stirred  too  much. 

SALAD  DRESSING— No.  2. 

The  yolks  of  two  eggs  beaten  thoroughly,  one  level  tea-spoon 
salt,  one  of  pepper,  two  of  white  sugar,  two  tea-spoons  prepared 
mustard,  one  table-spoon  butter;  stir  in  the  mixture  four  table- 
spoons best  vinegar,  put  dressing  into  a  bowl,  set  it  in  a  kettle 
of  hot  water  and  stir  constantly  till  it  thickens;  set  away,  and 
when  cool  it  is  ready  for  use.  This  is  sufficient  for  one  quart 
finely  chopped  cabbage  and  should  be  poured  over  while  hot, 
and  thoroughly  mixed  with  the  cabbage,  which  may  then  be 
placed  upon  a  platter,  formed  into  an  oval  mound  and  served 
cold. 

SALAD  DRESSING— No.  3. 

Yolks  of  two  eggs,  raw;  two  table-spoons  of  oil,  and  the 
same  of  sugar;  four  mustard-spoons  of  mustard,  two  salt- 
spoons  of  salt;  mix  together  and  beat  well;  boil  one  tea-cup 
of  vinegar  and  stir  into  the  mixture;  set  the  whole  into  a 
pan  of  boiling  water  to  prevent  its  curding;  stir  until  it  thick- 
ens. This  will  keep  a  week;  it  is  good  for  lettuce,  slaw,  or 
chicken  salad. 

SALMON  SALAD. 

Set  a  can  of  salmon  in  a  kettle  of  boiling  water,  let  it  boil 
twenty  minutes,  take  out  of  the  can  and  put  in  a  deep  dish, 
pour  off  the  juice  or  oil,  put  a  few  cloves  in  and  around  it, 
sprinkle  salt  and  pepper  over,  cover  with  cold  vinegar,  and  let 
it  stand  a  day,  take  it  from  the  vinegar  and  lay  it  on  a  platter. 
Prepare  a  dressing  as  follows :    Beat  the  yolk  of  two  raw  eggs 


52 


Catsups  and  Sauces. 


with  the  yolks  of  two  eggs  boiled  hard  and  mashed  fine  as 
possible:  add  gradually  a  table-spoon  mustard,  three  of  melted 
butter,  or  the  best  of  salad  oil,  a  little  salt  and  pepper  (either 
black  or  cayenne),  and  vinegar  to  taste.  Beat  the  mixture, 
a  long  time  (some  persons  like  the  addition  of  lemon  juice  and 
a  little  brown  sugar) ;  cover  the  salmon  thickly  with  a  part  of 
the  dressing,  cut  up  very  small  the  crisp  inside  leaves  of  let- 
tuce, put  in  the  remainder  of  the  mixture,  and  pour  over  with 
two  or  three  larger  pieces  placed  around  the  salmon  and  serve. 

TOMATO  SALAD. 

Take  the  skin,  juice  and  seeds  from  nice,  fresh  tomatoes, 
chop  what  is  left  with  celery,  and  add  a  good  salad-dressing. 


CATSUPS  AND  SAUCES. 


Always  select  perfect  fruit;  cook  in  porcelain,  never  in  metal. 
In  making  catsup,  instead  of  boiling,  some  sprinkle  the  toma- 
toes with  salt  and  let  them  stand  over  night,  then  strain  and 
add  spices,  etc.,  and  a  little  sugar.  Bottle  in  glass  or  stone, 
and  never  use  tin  cans ;  keep  in  a  cool,  dry,  dark  place.  If,  on 
opening,  there  is  a  leathery  mold  on  top,  carefully  remove 
every  particle  of  it,  and  the  catsup  will  not  .be  injured.  To 
prevent  this  molding,  some  do  not  fill  the  bottles  quite  to  the 
top  with  catsup,  but  fill  up  with  hot  vinegar.  If  there  are 
white  specks  of  mold  all  through  the  catsup  it  is  spoiled.  If 
on  opening  and  using  a  part,  there  is  danger  that  the  rest  may 
sour,  scald,  and,  if  too  thick,  add  vinegar.  Sauces  should 
always  be  made  with  great  care  in  a  pan  set  in  hot  water,  hav- 
ing the  sauce  pan  clean  if  a  delicate  flavor  is  desired,  espe- 
cially if  the  sauce  is  drawn  butter.  An  excellent  thickening 
for  soups,  sauces,  and  gravies,  is  prepared  as  follows :  Bring 
butter  to  the  boiling  point  in  a  small  stew-pan,  dredge  in  flour, 


Catsups  and  Sauces 


52 


stirring  together  until  well  cooked;  thin  this  with  a  part  of 
the  soup,  sauce  or  gravy,  and  then  add  it  to  the  whole,  stirring 
thoroughly.  The  flour  may  be  browned  before  using  if  in- 
tended for  brown  gravies  or  sauces. 

BOILED  CIDER  APPLE  SAUCE, 

Pare,  quarter  and  core  appies  sufficient  to  fill  a  gallon  por- 
celain kettle,  put  in  it  a  half  gallon  boiled  cider,  let  it  boil. 
Wash  the  apples  and  put  in  kettle,  place  a  plate  over  them,  and 
boil  steadily  but  not  rapidly  until  they  are  thoroughly  cooked, 
testing  by  taking  one  from  under  the  edge  of  the  plate  with  a 
fork.  Do  not  remove  the  plate  until  done,  or  the  apples  will 
sink  to  the  bottom  and  burn.  Apples  may  be  cooked  in  sweet 
cider  in  the  same  way, 

CELERY  SAUCE, 

Scrape  the  outside  stalks  of  celery  and  cut  in  pieces  an  inch 
long,  let  stand  in  cold  water  half  hour,  then  put  in  boiling 
water  enough  to  cover,  and  cook  until  tender;  drain  off  water 
and  dress  with  butter,  salt,  and  milk  or  cream,  thickened  with 
a  little  flour :  Or,  make  a  dressing  by  adding  to  half  pint  milk 
or  cream,  the  well-beaten  yolk  of  two  eggs,  a  bit  of  butter,  and 
a  little  salt  and  pepper  or  grated  nutmeg;  bring  just  to  boil- 
ing point,  pour  over  stewed  celery  and  serve  with  roast  duck- 

CRANBERRY  SAUCE. 

After  removing  all  soft  berries,  wash  thoroughly,  place  for 
about  two  minutes  in  scalding  water,  remove,  and  to  every 
pound  fruit  add  three-quarters  of  a  pound  granulated  sugar 
and  a  half  pint  water;  stew  together  over  a  moderate  but 
steady  fire,  Be  careful  to  cover  and  not  to  stir  the  fruit,  but 
occasionally  shake  the  vessel,  or  apply  a  gentler  heat  if  in  dan- 
ger of  sticking  or  burning.  If  attention  to  these  particulars 
be  given,  the  berries  will  retain  their  shape  to  a  considerable 
extent,  which  adds  greatly  to  their  appearance  on  the  table. 
Boil  from  five  to  seven  minutes,  remove  from  fire,  turn  into  a 
deep  dish,  set  aside  to  cool.    If  to  be  kept,  they  can  be  put  up 


54 


Catsups  and  Sauces. 


at  once  in  air-tight  jars.  Or,  for  strained  sauce,  one  and  a 
half  pounds  of  fruit  should  be  stewed  in  one  pint  of  water  for 
ten  or  twelve  minutes,  or  until  quite  soft,  then  strained  through 
a  colander  or  fine  wire  sieve,  and  three-quarters  of  a  pound  of 
sugar  thoroughly  stirred  into  the  pulp  thus  obtained ;  after 
cooling,  it  is  ready  for  use.  Serve  with  roast  turkey  or  game. 
When  to  be  kept  for  a  long  time  without  sealing,  more  sugar 
may  be  added,  but  its  too  free  use  impairs  the  peculiar  cran- 
berry flavor.  For  dinner-sauce  half  a  pound  is  more  econom- 
ical, and  really  preferable  to  three-quarters,  as  given  above. 
It  is  better,  though  not  necessary,  to  use  a  porcelain  kettle. 
Some  prefer  not  to  add  the  sugar  till  the  fruit  is  almost  done, 
thinking  this  plan  makes  it  more  tender,  and  preserves  the 
color  better. 

CUCUMBER  CATSUP. 

Three  dozen  cucumbers  and  eighteen  onions  peeled  and 
chopped  very  fine;  sprinkle  over  them  three-fourths  pint  table- 
salt,  put  the  whole  in  a  sieve,  and  let  drain  well  over  night; 
add  a  tea-cup  mustard  seed,  half  tea-cup  ground  black  pepper, 
mix  well,  and  cover  with  good  cider  vinegar. 

HORSE-RADISH  SAUCE. 

One  dessert-spoon  olive  oil,  melted  butter,  or  cream,  one  of 
ground  or  prepared  mustard,  two  table-spoons  grated  horse- 
radish, one  of  vinegar,  one  tea-spoon  sugar,  and  a  little  salt 
stirred  and  beaten  together  until  thoroughly  mixed.  Serve 
with  cold  meats.  When  made  with  oil  or  melted  butter,  and 
not  with  cream,  this  will  keep  two  or  three  days. 

OYSTER  SAUCE. 

Set  a  basin  on  the  fire  with  half  pint  oysters,  from  which 
all  bits  of  shell  have  been  picked,  and  one  pint  boiling  water, 
let  boil  three  minutes,  skim  well,  and  then  stir  in  half  a  cup 
butter  beaten  to  a  cream,  with  two  table-spoons  flour;  let  this 
come  to  a  boil,  and  serve  with  boiled  turkey. 


Catsups  and  Sauces. 


55 


MINT  SAUCE. 

Take  one  table-spoon  powdered  sugar  and  half  tea-cup  vin- 
egar; stir  in  two  table-spooos  of  green  mint,  chopped  very  fine. 
Serve  with  roast  lamb. 

ONION  SAUCE. 

Boil  three  or  four  white  onions  till  tender,  mince  fine;  boil 
half  pint  milk,  add  butter  half  size  of  an  egg,  salt  and  pepper 
to  taste,  and  stir  in  minced  onion  and  a  table-spoon  of  flour 
which  has  been  moistened  with  milk. 

ROMAN  SAUCE. 

Put  one  tea-cup  water  and  one  tea-cup  milk  on  fire  to  scald, 
and  when  hot  stir  in  a  table-spoon  flour,  previously  mixed 
smooth  with  a  very  little  cold  water,  add  three  eggs  well  beaten 
and  strained,  season  with  salt  and  pepper,  two  table-spoons 
butter  and  a  little  vinegar;  boil  four  eggs  hard,  slice  and  lay 
over  the  dish;  pour  over  sauce,  and  serve  with  boiled  fish. 

TOMATO  CATSUP — Mrs.  A.  J.  Foster,  Erie. 

One  peck  tomatoes,  one  cup  salt  boiled  with  the  tomatoes ; 
after  they  are  sifted  take  five  cents  worth  cloves,  five  cents 
worth  cinnamon,  five  cents  worth  allspice,  ten  cents  worth 
black  pepper,  ten  cents  worth  red  pepper,  and  some  celery 
seed;  add  spices  after  boiling  down  one  half.  Bottle  while 
cold. 


5(5 


Eggs  and  Omelets, 


EGGS  AND  OMELETS. 


The  fresher  they  are  the  better  and  more  wholesome,  though 
new-laid  eggs  require  to  be  cooked  longer  than  others.  Eggs 
over  a  week  old  will  do  to  fry,  but  not  to  boil.  In  boiling, 
they  are  less  likely  to  crack  if  dropped  in  water  not  quite  to 
the  boiling  point.  Eggs  will  cook  soft  in  three  minutes,  hard 
in  five,  very  hard  (to  serve  with  salads,  or  to  slice  thin — sea- 
soned well  with  pepper  and  salt — and  put  between  thin  slices 
of  bread  and  butter)  in  ten  to  fifteen  minutes.  There  is  an 
objection  to  the  ordinary  way  of  boiling  eggs  not  generally  un- 
derstood. The  white,  under  three  minutes  rapid  cooking,  is 
toughened  and  becomes  indigestable,  and  yet  the  yolk  is  left 
uncooked.  To  be  wholesome,  eggs  should  be  cooked  evenly  to 
the  center,  and  this  result  is  best  reached,  by  putting  the  eggs 
into  a  dish  having  a  tight  cover  (a  tin  pail  will  do),  and  pour- 
ing boiling  water  over  them  in  the  proportion  of  two  quarts  to 
a  dozen  eggs;  cover,  and  set  a^a/y  from  the  stove  for  eight  to 
fifteen  minutes.  The  heat  of  the  water  cooks  the  eggs  slowly 
to  a  jelly-like  consistency,  and  leaves  the  yolk  harder  than  the 
white.    The  egg  thus  cooked  is  very  nice  and  rich. 

Put  eggs  in  water  in  a  vessel  with  a  smooth  level  bottom,  to 
tell  good  from  bad;  those  which  lie  on  the  side  are  good,  but 
reject  those  which  stand  on  end  as  bad;  or,  look  through  each 
egg  separately  toward  the  sun,  or  toward  a  lamp  in  a  darkened 
room  ;  if  the  white  looks  clear,  and  the  yolk  can  be  easily  dis- 
tinguished the  egg  is  good;  if  a  dark  spot  appears  in  either 
white  or  yolk,  it  is  stale;  if  they  appear  heavy  and  dark,  or 
if  they  gurgle  when  gently  shaken,  they  are  "totally  depraved.'' 

To  prepare  eggs  for  winter  use,  take  a  small  basket,  and 
place  in  it  about  one  dozen  perfectly  fresh  eggs;  have  a  large 
pot  of  boiling  water  on  the  stove.  Holding  the  basket  by  the 
handle,  let  it  down  very  slowly  into  the  water  until  the  eggs 
are  entirely  covered  by  the  water:  let  it  remain  in  the  boiling 


Eggs  and  Omelets. 


57 


water  an  instant  (while  counting  ten),  then  withdraw  slowly. 
If  the  eggs  strike  the  water  too  suddenly  they  crack.  Having 
thus  prepared  all,  pack  them  in  salt,  the  small  end  down. 

Another  method  is  as  follows :  Be  very  sure  they  are  per- 
fectly fresh.  Slack  a  pound  of  stone  lime  in  two  gallons  of 
pure  pater.  When  cold  add  a  pint  of  salt,  and  stir  the  whole 
together  thoroughly.  If  too  strong  of  lime  it  will  destroy  the 
egg-shell  and  ruin  the  whole.  When  the  mixture  is  settled 
quite  clear  take  a  large  stone  pot,  keg  or  half-barrel,  according 
to  the  quantity  to  be  put  down.  Put  the  eggs  into  the  vessel, 
small  end  down;  pack  carefully,  close  together;  taking  care 
not  to  crack  the  shell.  One  broken  or  cracked  egg  will  ruin 
the  whole.  This  done,  pour  over  them  the  clear  lime-water 
without  disturbing  the  sediment.  Pour  in  carefully  so  as  not 
to  wash  the  eggs  out  of  place.  Be  sure  that  they  are  more 
than  covered,  and  lest,  by  air  getting  in  while  the  liquid  is 
poured  on,  they  may  not  be  thoroughly  submerged,  it  is  well 
to  wait  a  few  minutes  till  no  bubbles  rise  to  the  surface,  then 
pour  on  more  lime-water  if  necessary.  Then  close  the  jar 
closely,  and  do  not  disturb  them  till  needed. 

EGGS  BOILED. 

Put  them  in  cold  water,  and  when  it  has  boiled  the  eggs  will 
be  done,  the  whites  being  soft  and  digestible,  as  they  are  not 
when  put  on  in  boiling  water. 

EGGS  PICKLED. 

Boil  hard,  twelve  or  more,  and  lay  into  cold  water;  peel  off 
the  shells,  and  lay  whole  in  a  stone  jar,  with  mace,  cloves,  and 
nutmegs ;  till  up  with  boiling  vinegar ;  cover  close.  After  three 
days  scald  the  vinegar  again  and  pour  over;  cork  tight.  Use 
in  two  weeks. 

EGGS  PICKLED. 

Pint  strong  vinegar,  half  pint  cold  water,  tea-spoon  each  of 
cinnamon,  allspice,  and  mace;  boil  the  eggs  till  very  hard  and 
take  off  the  shell,  put  on  the  spices  tied  in  a  white  muslin  bag 
in  the  cold  water,  boil,  and  if  the  water  wastes  away,  add  enough 
s 


5S 


Eggs  and  Omelets. 


so  as  to  leave  a  half  pint  when  done;  add  the  vinegar,  and 
pour  over  eggs,  put  in  as  man}'  eggs  as  the  mixture  will  cover, 
and  when  they  are  used,  the  same  will  do  for  another  lot. 

EGG  BALLS. 

Three  eggs,  salt,  cayenne  pepper,  flour,  fat.  Boil  eggs  till 
hard,  remove  the  yolks,  beat  them  in  a  mortar,  with  the  sea- 
soning. Form  the  mixture  into  a  paste  with  the  whites  of 
eggs.  Roll  into  small  balls,  in  flour;  fry  them  light  brown 
in  fat. 

EGGS  POACHED. 

Break  the  eggs  into  a  dish,  take  care  the  yolks  are  not  bro- 
ken. Have  some  boiling  hot  water  in  a  deep  spider;  drop  eggs 
quick,  they  will  cook  npat  once.  Have  toast  ready;  take  eggs 
out  with  skimmer  and  lay  over  toast;  pepper  and  salt  a  little; 
have  some  fresh  butter  melted  and  very  hot,  pour  a  little  over 
eggs  and  toast;  you  will  then  have  a  nice  dish  for  breakfast 
or  tea. 

EGGS  RUMBLED. 

Beat  up  three  eggs  with  two  ounces  fresh  or  washed  butter, 
add  a  teaspoon  of  cream  or  fresh  milk ;  put  in  frying-pan  and 
keep  stirring  over  the  fire  for  five  minutes,  or  till  done ;  serve 
on  toast. 

EGGS  SCRAMBLED. 

Beat  eight  eggs  very  light,  prepare  skillet  with  one  table- 
spoon butter,  and  when  hot,  pour  in  the  eggs,  season  with  salt 
and  pepper,  stir  constantly  until  done  and  serve  hot. 

EGGS  SCRAMBLED. 

In  a  deep  earthen  pie-plate,  warm  sweet  milk,  allowing  two 
table  spoons  to  each  egg  (or  less,  with  a  large  number  of  eggs) 
add  a  bit  of  butter  size  of  a  walnut,  and  a  little  salt  and  pep- 
per. When  nearly  to  boiling  point  drop  in  the  eggs,  broken 
one  at  a  time  in  a  saucer;  with  a  spoon  or  thin-bladed  knife 


59 


gently  cut  the  eggs,  and  scrape  the  mixture  up  from  the  bot- 
tom of  the  plate  as  it  cooks.  If  it  begins  to  cook  dry  and  fast 
at  the  bottom,  move  the  dish  back  instantly,  for  success  de- 
pends wholly  on  cooking  gently  and  evenly,  proportions  being 
of  secondary  importance.  Take  from  stove  before  it  has  quite 
ail  thickened,  and  continue  turing  it  up  from  bottom  of  dish  a 
moment  longer.  If  served  in  another  dish  (it  keeps  warmer 
served  in  same)  have  it  well  heated.  The  mixture  should  be 
in  large  flakes  of  mingled  white  and  yellow,  and  as  delicate  as 
baked  custard. 

EGGS  STUFFED. 

Take  hard  boiled  eggs,  remove  the  shells;  cut  lengthwise; 
take  out  the  yolks,  put  into  a  bowl  and  mash  fine;  have  ready 
some  fine  bread  crumbs  seasoned  nicely  with  pepper  and  salt, 
mix  with  yolks,  then  fill  the  cavities  left  by  removing  the 
yolks;  place  them  in  rows  in  flat  dish;  season;  drop  small 
lumps  of  butter  over  each  one;  bake  half  hour. 

EGGS  STUFFED — Mrs9  Wm.  Faulkner. 

Boil  fresh  eggs  forty  minutes;  remove  the  shells,  and  when 
cold  cut  through  the  center  of  each  and  remove  the  yolk ; 
grind  or  mash  fine;  add  salt,  pepper  and  mustard;  mix  well; 
return  it  to  the  whites,  press  in  well;  put  together  and  wrap 
in  white  tissue  paper,  twisting  the  ends.    Good  for  picnics. 

TO  KEEP  EGGS. 

Put  a  two-inch  layer  of  salt  in  bottom  of  stone  jar,  then  a 
layer  of  fresh  eggs,  small  end  down ;  then  salt,  then  eggs,  and 
so  on  till  jar  is  full,  with  a  layer  of  salt  at  top;  cover  and  put 
in  cool  place-  but  not  where  they  will  freeze.  Or,  dip  the  eggs 
in  melted  wax,  or  a  weak  solution  of  gum,  or  in  flax-seed  oil, 
each  of  which  renders  the  shell  impervious  to  air.  For  one's 
own  use  the  latter  is  a  good  method,  keeping  the  eggs  perfect- 
ly, but  it  discolors  the  shells,  and  renders  them  unfit  for  mar- 
ket. 


60 


Eggs  and  Omelets. 


TO  MAKE  OMELETS. 

To  make  an  omelet,  beat  the  yolks  until  thick  and  creamy, 
then  add  the  milk,  the  salt,  pepper,  and  flour  if  any  is  used, 
and  lastly  the  whites  beaten  to  a  stiff  froth.  Have  the  skillet 
as  hot  as  it  can  be  without  scorching  the  butter,  put  in  a  table- 
spoon of  butter  and  pour  in  the  omelet,  which  should  at  once 
begin  to  bubble  and  rise  in  flakes.  Slip  under  it  a  thin,  broad- 
bladed  knife,  and  every  now  and  then  raise  it  up  to  prevent 
burning.  As  soon  as  the  under  side  is  hard  enough  to  hold 
together,  and  the  eggs  begin  to  "set,"  fold  over,  shake  the 
skillet  so  as  to  entirely  free  the  omelet,  carefully  slide  it  on  a 
hot  platter,  and  serve  at  once.  It  should  be  cooked  in  from 
three  to  five  minutes.  To  bake  an  omelet;  place  in  the  frying- 
pan  on  top  of  stove  until  it  begins  to  "set"'  in  the  middle, 
then  place  in  a  rather  hot  oven ;  when  slightly  browned,  fold 
if  you  like,  or  turn  a  hot  dish  on  top  of  the  pan,  upset  the  lat- 
ter with  a  quick  motion,  and  so  dish  the  omelet  with  the  under 
side  uppermost.  It  should  be  baked  in  from  five  to  ten  min- 
utes. Where  a  large  quantity  of  eggs  are  used,  instead  of 
making  into  one  large  omelet,  divide  and  make  several,  send- 
ing each  to  the  table  as  soon  as  done.  Ham,  chicken,  and  all 
kinds  of  meat  omelets,  are  made  b}T  chopping  the  meat  fine 
and  placing  between  the  folds  before  dishing. 

For  a  plain,  easily-made  omelet,  take  three  table-spoons  milk 
and  a  pinch  of  salt  for  each  egg;  beat  the  eggs  lightly  for  three 
or  four  minutes,  then  pour  them  into  a  hot  pan  in  which  a 
piece  of  butter  the  size  of  a  walnut  has  just  been  melted,  cook 
three  or  four  minutes,  fold  over  and  serve  at  once.  Some 
scald  a  little  parsley,  pour  off  the  water,  chop  it,  aud  mix  with 
the  omelet  just  before  pouring  into  the  pan. 

BEEF  OMELET. 

One  pound  fresh  beef,  three  large  crackers  rolled  fine,  two 
eggs  beaten  together,  pepper,  salt.  Chop  meat  fine ;  roll  crack- 
ers, put  all  together,  season  to  taste;  mix  well,  make  in  loaf, 
bake  one  hour;  baste  well,  set  away  to  get  cold;  slice  for  tea  or 
use  hot  for  dinner. 


Vegetables. 


61 


OYSTER  OMELET. 

Allow  for  every  six  large  oysters  or  twelve  small  ones  one  egg. 
Remove  the  hard  part,  and  mince  the  remainder  of  the  oyster 
very  fine;  take,  say,  the  yolks  of  eight  and  the  white  of  four 
eggs,  beat  them  until  very  light,  then  mix  in  the  oysters  with 
a  little  pepper,  and  beat  all  up  thoroughly;  put  in  the  frying- 
pan  a  gill  of  butter,  and  move  it  about  until  it  melts;  when 
the  butter  boils  in  the  pan,  skim  it  and  turn  in  the  omelet, 
stir  it  until  it  begins  to  stiffen,  fry  it  a  light  brown,  lift  the 
edge  carefully,  and  slip  a  round-pointed  knife  under;  do  not 
let  it  be  overdone,  but  as  soon  as  the  under  side  is  a  light 
brown  turn  it  on  to  a  very  hot  plate;  never  fold  this  omelet 
over ;  it  will  make  it  heavy.  If  you  want  to  brown  it  highly, 
you  can  hold  a  red-hot  shovel  over  it. 

OMELETTE  SOUFFLE— NICE. 

One  cup  flour,  one  pint  milk,  one  spoonful  sugar,  small 
piece  butter  size  of  a  walnut.  Scald  milk,  flour,  and  butter 
together.  After  the  batter  is  cold,  stir  in  the  yolks  of  five 
eggs.  Stir  in  the  froth  of  the  whites  just  before  baking.  Bake 
in  a  quick  oven.  Sauce. 


VEGETABLES. 


All  vegetables  are  better  cooked  in  soft  water,  provided  it  is 
clean  and  pure;  if  hard  water  is  used  put  in  small  pinch  of 
soda.  The  fresher  all  vegetables  are  the  more  wholesome. 
After  being  well  washed,  they  should  lie  in  cold  water  half  an 
hour  before  using,  and  some  peel  potatoes  and  let  them  stand 
in  cold  water  over  night,  putting  them  in  immediately  after 
being  peeled,  as  exposure  to  the  air  darkens  them.  Green 
corn  and  peas  should  be  prepared  and  cooked  at  once.  Put 


62 


Vegetables, 


all  kinds  into  salted  water,  boiling  hot  (excepting  potatoes 
which  may  be  put  on  in  salted  cold  water)  and  cook  until 
thoroughly  done,  draining  well  those  that  require  it.  Never 
split  onions,  turnips  and  carrots,  but  slice  them  in  rings  cut 
across  the  fiber,  as  they  thus  cook  tender  much  quicker.  Al- 
ways add  both  salt  and  a  little  soda  to  the  water  in  which  the 
greens  are  cooked,  as  soda  preserves  color.  A  piece  of  red 
pepper  the  size  of  your  linger  nail,  put  into  meat  or  vegetables 
when  first  beginning  to  cook,  will  aid  greatly  in  killing  the 
unpleasant  odor  arising  therefrom.  Remember  this  for  boiled 
cabbage,  green  beans,  onions,  chickens,  mutton,  etc. 

A  GOOD  BOILED  DINNER. 

Put  meat  on,  after  washing  well,  in  enough  boiling  water 
to  just  cover  the  meat;  as  soon  as  it  boils,  set  kettle  on  stove 
where  it  will  simmer  or  boil  very  slowly;  boil  until  almost  ten- 
der, put  in  vegetables  in  the  following  order:  Cabbage  cut  in 
quarters,  turnips  of  medium-size  cut  in  halves,  and  potatoes 
whole,  or  if  large  cut  in  two;  peel  potatoes  and  turnips  and 
allow  to  lie  in  cold  water  for  half  an  hour  before  using.  The 
meat  should  be  well  skimmed  before  adding  vegetables;  boil 
together  three  hours  or  more  until  thoroughly  done. 

BEANS. 

Beans  are  very  valuable  food.  Persisted  in  we  have  known 
them  to  cure  many  cases  of  scrofulous  taint  accompanied  by 
disfiguring  eruptions.  The  contained  oil,  not  unlike  castor 
oil  in  character,  induces  a  gentle  activity  of  the  alimentary 
canal,  and  the  effects  of  the  blood-poison  disappear  in  due 
time.  But  with  beans  and  peas  cooking  is  everything.  As 
ordinarily  brought  to  the  table,  they  are  utterl}7  unfit  for  a 
human  stomach.  They  are  almost  never  cooked  enough.  They 
are  heavily  freighted  with  salt  and  pork  and  grease.  The  pork 
is  perhaps  stale  or  ill-fed  and  rank.  It  gives  off  its  excess  of 
salt  in  the  cooking,  and  the  beans  absorb  it.  It  exudes  grease 
and  the  beans  are  saturated  with  it.  The  pot  of  baked  beans 
is  often  an  indigestible  mess  save  by  the  strongest  stomachs, 


Vegetables. 


03 


and  certain  to  destroy  the  solvent  power  of  even  the  strongest. 
There  is  a  close-grained  tenacious  hull  upon  the  bean  and  pea, 
composed  of  cellulose  or  woody  fiber,  which  takes  high  heat, 
long  continued,  to  dissolve.  This  shell  cannot  be  digested 
until  dissolved.  The  cooking  process  must  do  this,  or  the 
mass  must  be  strained  or  sifted.  If  beans  are  cooked  in  a 
double  boiler — a  boiler  having  a  water-jacket,  as  they  should 
be — they  can  be  kept  on  the  lire  for  days  without  burning. 
Baking  is  not  the  best  mode  of  cooking  beans  and  peas.  They 
need  water,  and  a  good  deal  of  it.  Bean  soup  is  the  best  bean 
food.  It  should  be  made  thin,  boiled  long,  and  strained  from 
its  useless,  irriiating  and  flatulent  hulls.  When  cold  it  will 
form  a  solid  jelly.    Eaten  with  cream  it  is  delicious. 

STRING  BEANS. 

String,  snap  and  wash  two  quarts  beans,  boil  in  plenty  of 
water  about  fifteen  minutes,  drain  off  and  put  on  again  in 
about  two  quarts  of  boiling  water;  boil  an  hour  and  a  half, 
and  add  salt  and  pepper  just  before  taking  up,  stirring  in  one 
and  a  half  table-spoons  butter  rubbed  into  two  table-spoons 
flour  and  half  pint  sweet  cream.  Or,  boil  a  piece  of  salted 
pork  one  hour,  then  add  beans  and  boil  an  hour  and  a  half. 
For  shelled  beans  boil  half  an  hour  in  water. 

BEETS. 

Remove  leaves,  wash  clean,  being  careful  not  to  break  off 
the  little  fibers  and  rootlets,  as  the  juices  would  thereby  es- 
•■  cape  and  they  would  lose  their  color;  boil  in  plenty  of  water, 
if  young,  two  hours,  if  old,  four  or  five  hours,  trying  with  a 
fork  to  see  when  tender:  take  out,  drop  in  a  pan  of  cold  water, 
and  slip  off  the  skin  with  the  hands;  slice  those  needed  for 
immediate  use,  place  in  a  dish,  add  salt,  pepper,  butter,  and 
if  not  very  sweet  a  tea-spoon  sugar,  and  serve  with  or  without 
vinegar;  put  those  which  remain  into  a  stone  jar  whole,  cover 
with  vinegar,  keep  in  a  cool  place,  take  out  as  wanted,  slice 
and  serve.    A  few  pieces  of  horse-radish  put  into  the  jar  will 


64 


Vegetables. 


prevent  a  white  scum  on  the  vinegar.  Or,  roast  in  hot  ashes 
and  when  tender,  peel,  slice,  and  dress  with  salt,  pepper,  but- 
ter and  vinegar. 

BEETS  BAKED. 

Beets  retain  their  sugaiy,  delicate  flavor  much  better  by, 
baking  instead  of  boiling;  turn  often  in  the  pan  while  in  the 
oven,  using  a  knife,  as  a  fork  will  cause  the  juice  to  flow;  when 
done,  remove  skin,  slice  and  season  with  butter,  pepper  and 
salt,  or  if  for  pickle,  slice  into  good  cold  vinegar. 

BEET  GREENS. 

Wash  young  beets  very  clean,  cut  off  tips  of  leaves,  looking 
over  carefully  to  see  that  no  bugs  or  worms  remain,  but  do  not 
separate  roots  from  leaves;  fill  dinner  pot  half  full  of  salted 
boiling  water,  add  beets,  boil  from  half  to  three  quarters  of  an 
hour;  take  out  and  drain  in  colander,  pressing  down  with  a 
large  spoon,  so  as  to  get  out  all  the  water.  Dish  and  dress 
with  butter,  pepper,  and  salt  if  needed.  Serve  hot  with  vine- 
gar. 

CABBAGE.— DELICATE. 

Remove  all  defective  outside  leaves,  quarter  and  cut  as  for 
coarse  slaw,  cover  well  with  cold  water,  and  let  remain  several 
hours  before  cooking,  then  drain  out  and  put  into  a  pot  with 
enough  boiling  water  to  cover;  boil  until  thoroughlv  cooked 
(which  will  generally  require  about  forty-five  minutes),  add 
salt  ten  or  fifteen  minutes  before  removing  from  the  fire,  and 
when  done,  take  up  into  a  colander,  press  out  the  water  well, 
season  with  butter  and  pepper.  This  is  a  good  dish  to  serve  # 
with  corned  meats,  but  should  not  be  cooked  with  them ;  if 
preferred,  however,  it  may  be  seasoned  by  adding  some  of  the 
liquor  and  fat  from  the  boiling  meat  to  the  cabbage  while  cook- 
ing. Or,  cut  the  cabbage  in  two,  remove  the  hard  stock,  let 
stand  in  cold  water  two  hours,  tie  in  thin  netting  or  piece  of 
muslin,  and  boil  in  salted  water  for  a  longer  time  than  wheu 
it  is  cut  finely.  Drain,  remove,  and  serve  in  a  dish  with  drawn 
butter  or  a  cream  dressing  poured  over  it. 


Vegetables. 


65 


CABBAGE  FRIED. 

Cut  the  cabbage  very  fine,  on  a  slaw  cutter,  if  possible;  salt 
and  pepper,  stir  well,  and  let  stand  five  minutes.  Have  an 
iron  kettle  smoking  hot,  drop  one  table-spoon  lard  into  it,  then 
the  cabbage,  stirring  briskly  until  tender;  send  to  table  im- 
mediately. One-half  cup  sweet  cream,  and  three  table-spoons 
vinegar — the  vinegar  to  be  added  after  the  cream  has  been 
well  stirred,  and  after  it  is  taken  from  the  stove,  is  an  agree- 
able change.  When  properly  done,  an  invalid  or  babe  can  eat 
it  without  injury,  and  there  is  no  offensive  odor  from  cook- 
ing it. 

CABBAGE  FRIED  OR  STEWED. 

Slice  clown  a  head  of  cabbage,  put  in  a  stew-pan  already 
prepared  with  a  very  little  water;  butter,  salt,  and  pepper; 
cover  and  stew  about  twenty  minutes,  taking  care  not  to  let  it 
burn;  beat  and  strain  three  eggs,  add  half  cup  good  vinegar 
(beat  while  pouring  in  vinegar),  then  turn  mixture  on  cabbage, 
stirring  briskly  all  the  time;  serve  immediately.  Sour  crean 
may  be  used  instead  of  eggs  and  vinegar.  To  fry  fine,  place 
on  heated  skillet  with  a  table-spoon  of  butter  or  beef-drippings, 
slice,  season,  cover,  stir  frequently  and  fry  ten  to  fifteen  min- 
utes, being  very  careful  not  to  burn  it. 

CABBAGE  STUFFED. 

Take  a  large,  fresh  cabbage' and  cut  out  the  heart;  fill  the 
vacancy  with  stuffing  made  of  cooked  chicken  or  veal,  chopped 
very  fine  and  highly  seasoned  and  rolled  into  balls  with  yolk 
of  egg.  Then  tie  the  cabbage  firmly  together  (some  tie  a 
cloth  around  it),  and  boil  in  a  covered  kettle  two  hours.  This 
is  a  delicious  dish  and  is  useful  in  using  up  cold  meats. 

TO  KEEP  CABBAGE. 
When  the  weather  becomes  frosty,  cut  them  off  near  the 
head,  and  carry  them,  with  the  leaves  on,  to  a  dry  cellar,  break 
off  superfluous  leaves,  and  pack  into  a  light  cask  or  box,  stems 
upward,  and  when  nearly  full  cover  with  loose  leaves ;  secure 
the  box  with  a  lid  against  rats. 

9 


60 


Vegetables. 


CORN— BINA'S  STEWED. 

Shave  corn  off  the  ear,  being  careful  not  to  cut  into  the  cob; 
to  three  pints  of  corn  add  three  table-spoons  butter,  pepper 
and  salt,  and  just  enough  water  to  cover;  place  in  a  skillet, 
cover  and  cook  rather  slowly  with  not  too  hot  a  fire,  from  half 
to  three-quarters  of  an  hour,  stir  with  a  spoon  often,  and  if 
necessary  add  more  water,  for  the  corn  must  not  brown;  if  de- 
sired, a  few  moments  before  it  is  done,  add  half  cup  sweet 
cream  thickened  with  tea-spoon  flour ;  boil  well  and  serve  with 
roast  beef,  escaloped  tomatoes  and  mashed  potatoes.  Some 
stew  tomatoes  and  just  before  serving  mix  them  with  the  corn. 

CORN  BOILED. 

Put  the  well-cleaned  ears  in  salted,  boiling  water,  boil  three- 
quarters  of  an  hour,  or  boil  in  the  husk  for  the  same  time,  re- 
move husks  and  serve  immediately. 

CORN  DRIED. 

For  a  family  of  eight,  wash  a  pint  of  corn  through  one  water, 
and  put  to  soak  overnight  in  clean  cold  water  (if  impossible 
to  soak  so  long,  place  over  a  kettle  of  hot  water  for  two  or 
three  hours);  when  softened,  cook  five  to  ten  minutes  in  water 
in  which  it  was  soaked,  adding  as  soon  as  boiling,  two  table- 
spoons butter,  one  of  flour,  and  a  little  salt  and  pepper.  An- 
other good  way  to  finish  is  the  following:  Take  the  yolk  of  one 
egg,  one  table-spoon  milk,  pinch  of  salt,  thicken  with  flour 
quite  stiff  so  as  to  take  out  with  a  teaspoon,  and  drop  in  little 
dumplings  not  larger  than  an  acorn;  cover  tightly  and  cook 
five  or  ten  minutes;  have  enough  water  in  kettle  before  adding 
dumplings,  as  cover  should  not  be  removed  until  dumplings 
are  done. 

EGG-PLANT. 

Peel  and  slice  one  or  two  medium-sized  egg-plants,  boil  in  a 
little  water  till  tender,  drain,  mash  fine,  season  with  salt  and 
pepper,  and  add  a  beaten  egg  and  a  table-spoon  of  flour;  fry 
in  little  cakes  in  butter,  or  butter  and  lard  in  equal  parts. 


Vegetables. 


67 


Parsnips  and  salsify  or  oyster  plant  may  be  cooked  in  the 
same  wa}T,  but  the  oyster  plant  is  made  in  smaller  cakes  to  im- 
itate oysters. 

EGG-PLANT. 

Peel  and  cut  three  slices  the  purple  kind,  sprinkle  with  salt 
and  pepper,  and  let  drain  on  a  tipped  plate  for  three-quarters 
of  an  hour;  make  a  light  batter  with  one  egg,  flour  and  a  lit- 
tle water,  dip  the  slices  into  it  and  fry  in  butter  or  lard.  Eggs 
and  cracker  may  be  used  instead  of  the  batter.  Or,  peel  the 
egg-plant,  boil  till  done,  then  pour  off  the  water,  mash  fine, 
and  pepper,  butter  and  salt  to  taste,  put  in  a  shallow  pudding- 
pan,  and  over  the  top  place  a  thick  layer  of  crushed  cracker. 
Bake  half  an  hour  in  a  moderate  oven. 

LETTUCE — SOUTHERN  FRIED. 

Chop  lettuce  and  tops  of  two  onions  very  fine,  and  add  to 
two  well-beaten  eggs;  put  a  little  sweet-oil  or  butter  in  hot 
frying-pan,  pour  in  well-beaten  mixture,  turn  after  a  few  mo- 
ments, and  serve  with  or  without  vinegar. 

MACARONI  BOILED. 

Pour  one  pint  boiling  water  over  five  ounces  macaroni,  let 
stand  half  an  hour,  drain  and  put  in  custard-kettle  with  boil- 
ing milk,  or  milk  and  water  to  cover,  cook  till  tender,  drain, 
add  a  table-spoon  butter,  and  a  tea-cup  cream,  and  season  with 
salt  and  pepper;  grate  cheese  over  top  and  serve. 

OKRA  AND  TOMATOES. 

Peel  and  slice  six  or  eight  tomatoes,  take  the  same  amount 
of  tender  sliced  okra,  and  one  or  two  sliced 'green  peppers: 
stew  in  porcelain  kettle  fifteen  or  twenty  minutes,  season  with 
butter,  pepper,  and  salt,  and  serve. 

ONIONS  BOILED  OR  FRIED. 

Wash  and  peel,  boil  ten  minutes,  pour  off  this  water,  again 
add  boiling  water,  boil  a  few  minutes  and  drain  a  second  time; 
pour  on  boiling  water,  add  salt  and  boil  for  one  hour,  drain  in 


68 


Vegetables. 


a  colander,  place  in  a  dish  to  send  to  the  table,  and  add  but- 
ter and  pepper.  Or,  about  half  an  hour  before  they  are  done, 
turn  a  pint  of  milk  into  the  water  in  which  they  are  boiling, 
and,  when  tender,  season  as  above.  Old  onions  require  two 
hours  to  boil.  To  fry  onions,  slice  and  boil  ten  minutes  each 
time  in  three  waters,  drain,  fry,  stir  often,  season,  and  serve 
hot. 

PEAS  STEWED  IN  CREAM. 

Put  two  or  three  pints  of  young  green  peas  into  a  sauce-pan 
of  boiling  water;  when  nearly  done  and  tender,  drain  in  a 
colander  quite  dry;  melt  two  ounces  of  butter  in  a  clean  stew- 
pan,  thicken  evenly  with  a  little  flour,  shake  it  over  the  fire,  but 
do  not  let  it  brown,  mix  smoothly  with  a  gill  of  cream,  add  half 
a  tea-spoon  of  white  sugar,  bring  to  a  boil,  pour  in  the  peas, 
keep  moving  for  two  minutes  until  well  heated,  and  serve  hot. 

POTATO  BALLS. 

Four  large,  cold,  mealy  potatoes ;  mash  them  in  a  basin  with 
two  ounces  of  clarified  butter,  a  pinch  of  salt,  a  very  little  cay- 
enne pepper,  and  the  beaten  yolk  of  one  egg,  rub. 

BOILED  POTATOES. 

To  boil  potatoes  with  skins  on.  cut  off  one  peel  lengthwise, 
and  put  in  to  boil  in  hot  water,  with  a  little  salt.  When  done 
they  are  dry,  and  the  skin  is  ready  to  drop  off;  Or,  potatoes 
pared  and  put  into  hot  water,  with  a  little  pinch  of  salt;  when 
done,  pour  off  all  the  water,  and  sprinkle  a  little  salt  on  them, 
shaking  the  pot  vigorously  back  and  forth  a  few  times;  the 
salt  absorbs  all  the  moisture,  and  they  come  out  dry  and  mealy. 
This  is  excellent  for  potatoes  late  in  the  spring  when  they  are 
apt  to  be  sodden. 

POTATOES  BOILED  OR  BAKED. 

Wash  clean,  cut  off  the  ends,  let  stand  in  cold  water  a  few 
hours,  put  into  boiling  water,  the  larger  ones  first,  then  in  a 
short  time  adding  the  rest,  cover,  and  keep  boiling  constantly ; 


Vegetables. 


69 


after  fifteen  minutes  throw  in  another  handful  of  salt  and  boil 
another  fifteen  minutes :  try  with  a  fork,  and  if  it  does  not 
quite  run  through  they  are  done  (this  is  called  "leaving 
a  bone  in  them" ).  Drain,  take  to  door  or  window  and  shake 
in  open  air  to  make  them  mealy;  return  to  stove  and  allow 
to  stand  uncovered  for  a  moment.  Or,  when  washed,  bake  in 
a  moderate  oven  fifty  minutes — or  place  in  a  steamer  half  an 
hour  over  water  kept  constantly  boiling,  serve  immediately; 
or  wash  and  peel  medium-sized  ones,  and  bake  in  pan  witli 
roast  meat,  basting  often  with  the  drippings. 

POTATOES  BOILED  IX  JACKETS. 

Put  well-washed  and  brushed  potatoes  in  cold  water:  when 
water  boils  add  a  little  salt,  boil  slowly  at  first,  rapidly  at  the 
last  (cooking  from  twenty-five  to  forty-five  minutes). 

POTATO  CAKES. 

Mix  thoroughly  with  cold,  mashed  potatoes  left  from  dinner, 
the  well  beaten  yolk  of  an  egg;  make  into  cakes  as  you  would 
sausages,  place,  in  skillet  with  a  table-spoon  hot  ham  or  beef 
drippings,  cover  tightly,  and.  in  five  minutes,  when  lower  side 
is  browned,  turn,  remove  cover,  fry  until  the  other  side  is  a 
nice  brown;  serve  hot.  Make  up  after  dinner  ready  for  frying 
for  breakfast. 

POTATO  CAKES. 

Grate  eight  raw  Irish  potatoes,  add  salt,  two  well-beaten 
eggs,  and  half  cup  flour;  roll  in  cakes  with  a  spoon,  and  fry  in 
butter. 

POTATOES  FRIED. 

Take  cold,  boiled  potatoes,  cut  into  thin  slices,  put  in  a  pan 
with  a  little  lard  or  dripping  of  roast  beef,  salt  and  pepper, 
stir  frequently,  cutting  them  up  until  they  are  brown ;  pom- 
over  a  little  cream,  stir  around  once  and  dish. 

POTATOES  GRILLED, 

Cut  the  potato  lengthwise  into  two  or  three  slices,  according 
to  size ;  put  them  on  a  gridiron,  over  very  hot  coals,  turning 


70 


Vegetables. 


both  sides  until  a  rich  brown;  put  in  dish,  pour  over  a  little 
melted  butter,  pepper  and  salt. 

POTATOES  MASHED. 

Peel  and  boil  as  directed  above,  without  the  salt;  when  done 
pour  off  all  the  water,  adding  salt,  butter  size  of  an  egg — a 
little  milk  or  cream  is  better — enough  to  make  them  a  smooth 
paste  or  soft  dough;  mash  with  a  potato  pounder  until  per- 
fectly smooth,  and  stir  vigorously  with  a  spoon  two  minutes; 
this  makes  them  light.    Put  into  a  dish  and  serve. 

POTATOES  MASHED. 

Pare  and  boil  till  clone,  drain,  and  mash  in  the  kettle  until 
perfectly  smooth;  add  milk  or  cream,  and  butter  and  salt: 
beat  like  cake  with  a  large  spoon,  and  the  more  they  are  beaten 
the  nicer  they  become.  Put  in  a  dish,  smooth,  place  in  a  lump 
of  butter  in  the  centre,  sprinkle  with  pepper;  or  add  one  or 
two  eggs,  pepper,  mix  thoroughly,  put  in  baking  dish,  dip  a 
knife  in  sweet  milk,  smooth  over,  wetting  every  part  with 
milk,  and  place  in  a  hot  oven  twenty  minutes.* 

POTATOES— NEW. 

Wash,  scrape,  boil  ten  minutes,  turn  off  water,  and  add 
enough  more,  boiling  hot,  to  cover,  also  acid  a  little  salt;  cook 
a  few  moments,  drain,  and  set  again  on  stove,  add  butter,  salt 
and  pepper,  and  a  little  thickening  made  of  two  table-spoons 
fiour  in  about  pint  milk;  put  on  the  cover,  and,  when  the  milk 
has  boiled,  serve.  Or,  when  cooked  and  drained,  put  in  a  skil- 
lit  with  hot  drippings,  cover,  and  shake  till  a  nice  brown. 

POTATOES— S  ARATO  G  A. 

Peel  and  slice  on  the  slaw  cutter:  put  in  cold  water,  then 
drain  through  the  colander,  and  wipe  dry:  fry  a  few  at  a  time 
in  lard  as  you  would  doughnuts;  salt  as  you  take  them  out. 

POTATOES— SARATOGA. 

Pare  and  cut  into  thin  slices  on  a  slaw-cutter,  four  large  po- 
tatoes (new  are  best),  let  stand  in  ice-cold  salt  water  while 


Vegetables. 


71 


breakfast  is  cooking;  take  a  handful  of  the  potatoes,  squeeze 
the  water  from  them  and  dry  in  a  napkin ;  separate  the  slices 
and  drop  a  handful  at  a  time  into  a  skillet  of  boiling  lard, 
taking  care  that  they  do  not  strike  together,  stir  with  a  fork 
till  they  are  a  light  brown  color,  take  out  with  a  wire  spoon, 
drain  well  and  serve  in  an  open  dish.  They  are  very  nice 
served  cold. 

POTATOES  STEWED. 

Cut  the  cold  boiled  potatoes  into  pieces  the  size  of  a  hickory 
nut:  put  them  into  the  pan,  with  milk  enough  to  make  plenty 
of  dressing  around  them;  butter  the  size  of  half  an  egg,  pep- 
per and  salt.  Let  them  warm  through,  but  not  boil,  long- 
enough  to  break  up;  add  a  little  flour  thickening  to  make  like 
thin  custard. 

RICE  BOILED. 

Rice  should  be  carefully  picked  over,  washed  in  warm  water, 
rubbed  between  the  hands,  and  then  rinsed  several  times  in 
cold  water  till  white.  Put  one  tea-cup  in  a  tin  pan  or  porce- 
lain kettle,  add  one  quart  boiling  water  and  one  tea-spoon  salt; 
boil  fifteen  minutes,  not  stirring,  but  taking  care  that  it  does 
not  burn ;  pour  into  a  dish  and  send  to  table,  placing  a  lump 
of  butter  in  the  centre.  Cooked  thus  the  kernels  remain  whole. 
The  Southern  rice  cooks  much  quicker,  and  is  nicer  than  the 
Indian  rice.  To  boil  rice  in  milk,  put  a  pint  of  rice  into  nearly 
two  quarts  of  cold  milk  an  hour  before  diuner,  add  two  tea- 
spoons salt,  boil  very  slowly  and  stir  often ;  cook  on  back  part 
of  stove  or  range  so  as  to  avoid  burning  and  take  it  up  into  a 
mold  or  bowl  wet  in  cold  water  a  short  time  before  serving. 
Some  soak  rice  an  hour  or  two  before  cooking. 

SAUER  KRAUT. 

Slice  cabbage  fine  on  a  slaw-cutter;  line  the  bottom  and 
sides  of  an  oaken  barrel  or  keg  with  cabbage  leaves,  put  in  a 
layer  of  sliced  cabbage  about  six  inches  in  depth,  sprinkle 
lightly  with  salt  and  pound  with  a  wooden  beetle  until  the 


72 


Vegetables. 


cabbage  is  a  compact  mass;  add  another  layer  of  cabbage,  etc., 
repeating  the  operation,  pounding  well  each  layer,  until  the 
barrel  is  full  to  within  six  inches  of  the  top;  cover  with  leaves, 
then  a  cloth,  next  a  board  cut  to  fit  loosely  on  the  inside  of 
barrel,  kept,  well  down  with  a  heavy  weight.  If  the  brine  has 
not  raised  within  two  da}Ts,  add  enough  water,  with  just  salt 
enough  to  taste,  to  cover  the  cabbage;  examine  every  two  days, 
and  add  water  as  before. 

SUCCOTASH. 

Take  pint  of  shelled  lima  beans  (green),  or  string  beans, 
cover  with  hot  water,  boil  fifteen  minutes;  have  ready  corn 
from  six  good-sized  ears,  and  add  to  beans;  boil  half  an  hour, 
add  salt,  pepper  and  two  table-spoons  batter.  Be  careful  in 
cutting  down  corn  not  to  cut  too  deep, — better  not  cut  deep 
enough  and  then  scrape;  after  corn  is  added  watch  carefully 
to  keep  from  scorching.  Or,  to  cook  with  meat  boil  one  pound 
salt  pork  two  hours,  add  corn  and  beans,  omitting  butter. 

SUCCOTASH  IN  WINTER. 

Wash  one  pint  dried  lima  beans  and  one  and  a  half  pints  of 
dried  corn;  put  beans  in  kettle  and  cover  with  cold  water; 
cover  corn  with  cold  water  in  a  tin  pan,  set  on  top  of  kettle  of 
beans  so  that  while  the  latter  are  boiling  the  corn  may  be 
heating  and  swelling;  boil  beans  fifteen  minutes,  drain  off, 
cover  with  boiling  water,  and  when  tender  (half  an  hour)  add 
corn,  cooking  both  together  for  fifteen  minutes;  five  minutes 
before  serving  add  salt,  pepper  and  a  dressing  of  butter  and 
flour  rubbed  together,  or  one-half  a  teacup  cream  or  milk 
thickened  with  one  tabie-spoon  flour. 

TOMATOES  BAKED. 

Cut  a  thin  slice  from  blossom  side  of  twelve  solid,  smooth, 
ripe  tomatoes,  with  a  tea-spoon  remove  pulp  without  breaking- 
shell;  take  a  small,  solid  head  of  cabbage  and  one  onion,  chop 
fine,  add  bread  crumbs  rubbed  fine,  and  pulp  of  tomatoes,  sea- 
son with  pepper,  salt  and  sugar,  add  a  tea-cup  good  sweet 


Vegetables. 


cream,  mix  well  together,  fill  tomatoes,  put  the  slice  back  in 
its  place,  lay  them  stem  end  down  in  a  buttered  pie-pan  with 
just  enough  water  to  keep  from  burning,  and  bake  half  an  hour. 
They  make  a  handsome  dish  for  a  dinner  table. 

TOMATOES  ESCALOPED. 

Put  in  a  buttered  baking-dish  a  layer  of  bread  or  cracker- 
crumbs  seasoned  with  bits  of  butter,  then  a  layer  of  sliced  to- 
matoes seasoned  with  pepper,  salt  and  sugar  if  desired,  then 
a  layer  of  crumbs,  and  so  on  till  dish  is  full,  finishing  with 
the  crumbs.  Bake  from  three-quarters  of  an  hour  to  an  hour. 
Onions  can  be  used  same  way. 

TOMATOES  FRIED. 

Peel  tomatoes  and  cut  crosswise  in  large  slices,  salt  and  pep- 
per, dip  each  slice  into  wheat  flour,  then  into  beaten  egg,  and 
fry  at  once  in  hot  lard;  serve  hot.  A  cup  of  milk  is  sometimes 
thickened  with  a  little  flour  and  butter,  boiled  and  poured  over 
them. 

TOMATOES — MOTHER'S  SLICED. 

Prepare  half  an  hour  before  dinner,  scald  a  few  at  a  time 
in  boiliug  water,  peel,  slice,  and  sprinkle  with  salt  and  pepper, 
set  away  in  a  cool  place,  or  lay  a  piece  of  ice  on  them.  Serve 
as  a  relish  for  dinner  in  their  own  liquor,  when  vinegar  and 
sugar  may  be  added  if  desired. 

SQUASH— WINTER. 

Cut  up,  take  out  inside,  pare  the  pieces  and  stew  in  as  little 
water  as  possible,  cook  an  hour,  mash  in  kettle,  and  if  watery 
let  stand  on  the  fire  a  few  moments,  stirring  until  dry;  season 
with  butter,  cream,  salt  and  pepper;  be  careful  that  it  does 
not  burn.  Winter  squashes  are  also  cooked  by  cutting  in 
pieces  without  paring,  baking,  and  serving  like  potatoes;  or 
they  may  be  cooked  in  a  steamer,  and  served  either  in  the 
shell  or  scraped  out,  put  in  a  pan,  mashed,  and  seasoned  with 
butter,  cream,  salt  and  pepper,  and  then  made  hot  and  served. 
10 


74 


Bread -Making. 


BREAD-MAKING. 


The  old  saying,  "bread  is  the  staff  of  life,"  has  a  sound  rea- 
son in  it.  Flour  made  from  wheat,  and  meal  from  oats  and 
Indian  corn,  are  rich  in  the  waste-repairing  elements,  starch 
and  albumen,  and  head  the  list  of  articles  of  food  for  man. 
Good  bread  makes  the  homliest  meal  acceptable,  and  the 
coarsest  fare  appetising,  while  the  most  luxurious  table  is  not 
even  tolerable  without  it.  Light,  crisp  rolls  for  breakfast, 
spongy,  sweet  bread  for  dinner,  and  flaky  biscuit  for  supper, 
cover  a  multitude  of  culinary  sins;  and  there  is  no  one  thing 
on  which  the  health  and  comfort  of  a  famil}-  so  much  depends 
as  the  quality  of  its  home-made  loaves. 

Bread-making  seems  a  simple  process  enough,  but  it  requires 
a  delicate  care  and  watchfulness,  and  a  thorough  knowledge  of 
all  the  contingencies  of  the  process,  dependent  on  the  different 
qualities  of  flour,  the  varying  kinds  and  conditions  of  yeast 
and  the  change  of  seasons;  the  process  which  raises  bread 
successfully  in  winter  making  it  sour  in  summer.  There 
are  many  little  things  in  bread-making  which  require  accu- 
rate observation,  and,  while  valuable  recipes  and  well-defined 
methods  in  detail  are  invaluable  aids,  nothing  but  experience 
will  secure  the  name  merited  by  so  few,  though  earnestly  cov- 
eted by  eveiy  practical,  sensible  house-keeper — uan  excellent 
bread-maker."  Three  things  are  indispensible  to  success — 
good  flour,  good  yeast,  and  watchful  care.  Good  flour  adheres 
to  the  hand,  and,  when  pressed,  shows  the  imprint  of  the  lines 
of  the  skin.  Its  tint  is  cream  white.  Never  buy  that  which 
has  a  blue- white  tinge.  Poor  flour  is  not  adhesive,  can  be 
blown  about  easily,  and  sometimes  has  a  dingy  look,  as  though 
mixed  with  ashes. 

TO  BAKE  BREAD. 

Here  is  the  important  point,  for  the  bread  may  be  perfect 
thus  far  and  then  be  spoiled  in  baking.    No  definite  rules  can 


Bread -Making.  75 


be  given  that  apply  equally  well  to  every  stove  and  range;  but 
one  general  rule  must  be  observed,  which  is  to  have  a  steady, 
moderate  heat,  such  as  is  more  minutely  described  in  the  di- 
rections for  baking  large  cakes.  The  oven  must  be  just  hot 
^enough;  if  too  hot,  a  firm  crust  is  formed  before  the  bread 
has  expanded  enough,  and  it  will  be  heavy.  Many  test  the 
oven  by  sprinkling  a  little  flour  on  the  bottom;  if  it  browns 
very  quickly,  it  is  too  hot,  but  if  it  browns  gradually,  it  is  just 
right.  An  oven  in  which  the  baud  cannot  be  held  longer 
than  to  count  twenty  moderately,  is  hot  enough.  When  the 
bread  is  done  (to  test  which,  break  apart  and  press  gently  with 
the  finger;  if  elastic  it  is  done,  but  if  clammy,  not  done,  and 
must  be  returned  to  the  oven),  wrap  in  a  coarse  towel  or  bread 
cloth  and  place  each  loaf  on  its  edge  until  cool.  If  by  acci- 
dent or  neglect  the  bread  is  baked  too  hard,  rub  the  loaves 
over  with  butter,  wet  the  towel  in  which  they  are  wrapped,  and 
cover  with  another  dry  towel.  In  winter,  bread  dough  may 
be  kept  sweet  several  days  by  placing  it  where  it  will  be  cold 
without  freezing,  or  by  putting  it  so  deep  into  the  flour  barrel 
as  to  exclude  it  entirely  from  the  air.  When  wanted  for  use, 
make  into  bread,  or.  by  adding  the  proper  ingredients,  into 
cake,  rusk,  buscuit,  apple  dumplings,  chicken  pie,  etc. 

RYE  AND  INDIAN  BREAD. 

One  quart  of  rye  meal  or  rye  flour,  two  quarts  of  Indian 
meal,  scalded  (by  placing  in  a  pan  and  pouring  just  enough* 
boiling  water  over  it,  stirring  constantly  with  a  spoon,  to 
merely  wet  1';.  but  not  enough  to  make  it  into  a  batter,)  one- 
half  tea-cup  molasses,  two  tea-spoons  salt,  one  tea-spoon  soda, 
one  tea-cup  yeast;  make  as  stiff  as  can  be  stirred  with  a  spoon, 
mixing  with  warm  water,  and  let  rise  all  night;  then  put  in  a 
large  pan,  smooth  the  top  with  the  hand  dipped  in  cold  water, 
let  it  stand  a  short  time,  and  bake  five  or  six  hours.  If  put 
in  the  oven  late  in  the  day  let  it  remain  all  night.  Graham 
inay  be  used  instead  of  rye,  and  baked  as  above.  In  the  olden 
time  it  was  placed  in  kettle,  allowed  to  rise,  then  placed  on  the 
hearth  before  the  fire,  with  coals  on  top  of  lid,  and  baked. 


76 


Bread -Making. 


BREAD  WITH  BUTTERMILK. 

The  evening  before  baking,  bring  to  the  boiling  point  two 
quarts  of  buttermilk,  and  pour  into  a  crock  in  which  a  scant 
tea-cup  of  sifted  flour  has  been  placed.  Let  stand  till  suffi- 
ciently cool,  then  add  half  a  cup  of  yeast,  and  flour  to  make"' 
a  thick  batter;  the  better  and  longer  the  sponge  is  stirred  the 
whiter  will  be  the  bread.  In  the  morning  sift  the  flour  into 
the  bread  pan,  pour  the  sponge  in  the  center,  stir  in  some  of 
the  flour,  and  let  stand  until  after  breakfast;  then  mix,  knead- 
ing for  about  half  an  hour,  the  longer  the  better;  when  light? 
mold  into  loaves,  this  time  kneading  as  little  as  possible.  The 
secret  of  good  bread  is  having  good  yeast,  and  not  baking  too 
hard.    This  makes  four  loaves  and  forty  biscuit. 

BREAD  WITH  POTATO  SPONGE. — M vs.  H.  L.  B. 

Pare  and  boil  four  or  five  potatoes,  mash  fine,  and  add  one 
pint  of  flour;  pour  on  the  mixture  first  boiling  water  enough 
to  moisten  well,  then  about  one  quart  of  cold  water,  after 
which  add  flour  enough  to  make  a  stiff  batter.  When  cooled 
to  "scarcely  milk  warm  "  put  in  one-half  pint  (or  more  will 
do  no  harm)  of  yeast,  and  let  it  stand  in  a  warm  place  over 
night;  in  the  morning  add  to  this  sponge  one  cup  of  lard,  stir 
in  flour,  and  knead  well.  The  more  kneading  the  finer  and 
whiter  the  bread  will  be;  pounding  also  with  a  potato-masher 
improves  the  bread  greatly,  and  is  rather  easier  than  so  much 
kneading.  When  quite  stiff  and  well  worked  and  pounded, 
let  it  rise  again,  and  when  light,  make  into  loaves  or  biscuit, 
adding  no  more  flour  except  to  flour  the  hands  and  board — 
merely  enough  to  prevent  the  bread  from  sticking.  Let  it 
rise  again,  then  bake;  and  immediately  after  taking  from  the 
oven,  wrap  in  a  wet  towel  until  partly  cold,  in  order  to  soften 
the  crust.  If  yeast  and  flour  are  good  {essentials  in  all  cases) 
the  above  process  will  make  good  bread. 

HOP- YEAST  BREAD, — M vs.  J.  11. 

One  tea-cup  yeast,  three  pints  warm  water;  make  a  thin 
sponge  at  tea-time,  cover  and  let  it  remain  two  hours  or  until 


very  light.  By  adding  the  water  to  the  flour  first  and  having 
the  sponge  quite  warm,  it  is  never  necessary  to  put  the  sponge 
over  hot  water  or  in  an  oven  to  make  it  rise.  Knead  into  a 
loaf  before  going  to  bed:  in  the  morning  mold  into  three 
loaves,  spreading  a  little  lard  between  as  they  are  put  in  the 
pan.  When  light,  bake  one  hour,  having  oven  quite  hot  when 
the  bread  is  put  in,  and  very  moderate  when  it  is  done. 
(Bread  made  in  this  way  is  never  sour  or  heavy.)  To  have 
fine,  light  biscuit,  add  shortening  at  night,  and  in  the  morning 
make  into  biscuit  and  bake  for  breakfast.  By  this  recipe 
bread  is  baked  before  the  stove  is  cold  from  breakfast,  and  out 
of  the  way  for  other  baking. 

To  cool  bread  there  should  be  a  board  for  the  purpose.  An 
oaken  board,  covered  with  heavy  white  flannel,  is  the  best; 
over  this  spread  a  fresh  linen  bread-cloth,  and  lay  the  bread 
on  it  right  side  up.  with  nothing  over  it  except  a  very  thin 
cover  to  keep  off  the  flies.  It  should  be  placed  immediately 
in  the  fresh  air  or  wind  to  cool:  when  cool,  place  immediately 
in  a  tin  box  or  stone  jar,  and  cover  closely.  Bread  cooled  in 
this  way  will  have  a  soft  crust,  and  be  filled  with  pure  air. 

EYE  BREAD. 

Make  a  sponge  of  one  quart  warm  water,  one  tea-cup  yeast, 
thickened  with  rye  flour:  put  in  warm  place  to  rise  over  night: 
scald  one  pint  corn  meal:  when  cool  add  it  to  sponge,  and  add 
rye  flour  till  thick  enough  to  knead,  knead  but  little,  let  rise, 
moid  into  loaves,  place  in  deep  pie-tins  or  small  pudding-pans, 
let  rise  and  bake;  or,  thicken  the  sponge  with  rye  flour,  and 
proceed  as  above.   Wheat  sponge  may  be  used  instead  of  rye. 

BPxOTTX  BREAD. — Mrs.  K. 

2  cups  corn  meal.  2  cups  rye. 

2  cups  Graham.  1  cup  molasses. 

4  cups*  cold  water. 

2  tea-spoons  soda,  dissolved  in  hot  water:  salt:  steam  four 
hours;  then  turn  out  of  kettle  and  set  in  oven  a  few  moments 
to  dry  up. 


78 


Bread -Making. 


BOSTON  BROWN  BREAD— No.  I.— Mrs.  Lambing,  Titus- 

ville.  Pa. 

One  heaping  coffee-cup  each  of  com.  rye  and  Graham  meal. 
The  rye  meal  should  be  as  fine  as  the  Graham,  or  rye  flour 
may  be  used.  Sift  the  three  kinds  together  as  closely  as  pos- 
sible, and  beat  together  thoroughly  with  two  cups  New  Orleans 
or  Porto  Rico  molasses,  two  cups  sweet  milk,  one  cup  sour 
milk,  one  dessert-spoon  soda,  one  tea-spoon  salt;  pour  into  a 
tin  form,  place  in  a  kettle  of  cold  water,  put  on  and  boil  four 
hours.  Pat  on  to  cook  as  soon  as  mixed.  It  may  appear  to 
be  too  thin,  but  it  is  not,  as  this  recipe  has  never  been  known 
to  fail.  Serve  warm,  with  Thanksgiving  turkey.  The  bread 
should  uot  quite  fill  the  form,  (or  a  tin  pail  with  cover  will 
answer,)  as  it  must  have  room  to  swell.  See  that  the  water 
does  not  boil  up  to  the  top  of  the  form ;  also  take  care  it  does 
not  boil  entirely  away  or  stop  boiling.  To  serve  it,  remove  the 
lid  and  set  it  a  few  moments  into  the  open  oven  to  dry  the  top. 

BOSTON  BROWN  BREAD— No.  2. 

2  cups  Indian  meal.  2  cups  Graham  flour. 
1  cup  molasses.  1  quart  sour  milk. 

1  tea-spoon  soda.  Little  salt. 

Stir  well  and  bake  three  hours. 

BOSTON  BROWN  BREAD— So.  3. 

3  cups  Indian  meal.  1  cup  rye. 

1  cup  molasses.  1  tea-spoon  soda. 

1  quart  milk  or  water. 

BOSTON  BROWN  BREAD— No.  4. 

Two  cups  Indian  meal,  even,  one  cup  rye  meal,  one  cup 
flour,  one  quart  (small)  sweet  milk,  one  and  a  half  cups  mo- 
lasses, pinch  of  salt,  one  tea-spoon  soda  dissolved  in  a  tea- 
spoon of  water,  two  tea-spoons  cream  of  tartar — or,  if  baking- 
powder  is  preferred,  two  heaping  tea-spoons.  Steam  in  a  cov- 
ered tin  four  hours.  The  water  must  be  boiling  when  the  tin 
is  put  in  the  pot,  and  must  not  be  allowed  to  stop  boiling 
during  the  four  hours.  This  is  sure  to  be  good  if  the  water 
is  kept  boiling. 


Bread -leaking 


79 


CORN  BREAD— No.  1.— Mrs.  J.  H.  S. 

T;like  one  quart  buttermilk,  and  one  heaping  pint  corn  meal, 
one  tea-spoon  soda,  one  tea-spoon  salt,  one  table-spoon  sugar 
and  three  eggs;  have  the  stove  very  hot,  and  do  not  bake  in 
too  deep  a  pan.  The  batter  seems  too  thin,  but  bakes  very 
nicely. 

CORN  BREAD— No.  2,— Mrs.  Dawson. 

Two  quarts  corn  meal,  scalded  with  sweet  milk;  after  cool- 
ing add  one  quart  flour,  one  pint  sour  milk,  one  table-spoon 
soda,  one  cup  sugar,  one  cup  molasses.  Bake  six  hours  or 
steam. 

CORN  BREAD— No.  3. 

One  pint  yellow  Indian  meal,  one  pint  flour,  through  which 
thoroughly  mix  one  table-spoon  lard,  one  table-spoon  sugar, 
(or  more,"  according  to  taste),  two  eggs,  one  pint  sour  milk  or 
buttermilk,  in  which  has  been  stirred  one  tea-spoon  soda  pre- 
viously dissolved  in  a  little  water.    Bake  in  a  quick  oven. 

CORN  BREAD— PLAIN. 

One  pint  corn  meal,  one  of  sour  or  buttermilk,  one  egg,  one 
tea-spoon  soda,  one  of  salt;  bake  in  dripping  or  gem-pans.  If 
preferred,  one  heaping  table-spoon  of  sugar  may  be  added. 

CORN  BREAD— STEAMED. 

Two  cups  each  corn  meal,  Graham  flour,  and  sour  milk, 
two-thirds  cup  molasses,  one  tea-spoon  soda;  steam  two  hours 
and  a  half. 

GRAHAM  AND  CORN  BREAD. 

it  is  very  desirable  that  every  family  should  have  a  constant 
supply  of  bread  made  of  unbolted  flour,  or  rye  and  Indian 
corn.  Most  persons  find  it  palatable,  and  it  promotes  health. 
For  these  coarse  breads,  always  add  a  little  brown  sugar  or 
molasses,  and  the  amount  given  in  the  recipes  ma}7  be  in- 
creased according  to  taste.  They  rise  quicker  and  in  a  less 
warm  atmosphere  than  without  sweetening.    A  little  lard  or 


\ 


80 


Bread- Making. 


butter  improves  bread  or  cakes  made  of  Graham  or  Indian 
meal,  rendering  them  light  and  tender.  Graham  rises  rather 
more  quickly  than  fine  flour,  and  should  not  be  allowed  to  rise 
quite  as  light.  The  fire  should  be  steady  and  sufficient  to 
complete  the  baking,  and  the  oven  hot  when  the  bread  is  put 
in.  A  fresh  blaze  will  burn  the  crust,  while  a  steady  tire  will 
sweeten  it.  Graham  bread  bakes  more  slowly  than  fine-flour 
bread,  and  corn  bread  requires  more  time  and  a  hotter  oven 
than  either.  Use  either  yellow  or  white  corn,  ground  coarse, 
for  mush,  and  white,  ground  fine,  for  bread,  etc.  In  cutting 
the  latter  while  warm,  hold  the  knife  perpendicularly.  Rye  is 
said  to  absorb  more  moisture  from  the  air  than  any  other 
grain ;  hence,  all  bread  from  this  meal  needs  a  longer  applica- 
tion of  heat,  and  keeps  moister  after  being  baked  than  that 
made  from  other  grain. 

GRAHAM  BREAD— No.  1. 

Take  a  little  over  a  quart  of  warm  water,  one-half  cup 
brown  sugar  or  molasses,  one-fourth  cup  hop  yeast,  and  one 
and  a  half  tea-spoons  salt;  thicken  the  water  with  unbolted 
flour  to  a  thin  batter;  acid  sugar,  salt  and  yeast,  aud  stir  in 
more  flour  until  quite  stiff.  In  the  morning  add  a  small  tea- 
spoon soda,  and  flour  enough  to  make  the  batter  stiff  as  can 
be  stirred  with  a  spoon;  put  it  into  pans  and  let  rise  again; 
then  bake  in  even  oveu,  not  too  hot  at  first;  keep  warm  while 
rising;  smooth  over  the  loaves  with  a  spoon  or  knife  dipped  in 
water. 

GRAHAM  BREAD— No.  2. 

This  is  an  easy  and  a  good  way  to  provide  loaves  of  Graham 
bread.  When  making  common  white  bread  set  enough  sponge 
at  night  to  spare  a  little  for  a  Graham  loaf  next  morning. 
For  one  common  tin-loaf  take  a  little  more  than  a  pint  of  the 
sponge,  add  a  table-spoon  of  sugar,  and  stir  it  thick  with 
Graham  flour.  Stir  well  with  a  spoon,  but  do  not  knead  it  or 
it  may  be  too  hard  and  dry.  Turn  it  into  the  butter  pan,  let 
it  rise  in  a  warm  place,  and  bake  it  slowly  for  an  hour  or  so 
longer.    Of  course  several  loaves  may  be  made  in  this  way, 


Bread- Making. 


si 


setting  a  fine  flour  sponge  at  night,  and  stirring  Graham  flour 
into  the  whole.  Most  people  will  prefer  this  to  loaves  of  undi- 
luted Graham  bread.  Unless  you  put  in  sugar  or  molasses, 
your  Graham  bread  made  with  yeast  is  not  half  so  sweet  as 
Graham  gems,  especially  if  these  are  mixed  with  sweet  milk, 
either  new  or  skimmed.  Many  prefer  to  steam  Graham  loaves 
for  an  hour,  and  finish  by  baking  about  twenty  minutes — to 
prevent  a  hard  crust. 


One  and  a  half  pints  sour  milk,  half  cup  New  Orleans  mo 
lasses,  a  little  salt,  two  tea-spoons  soda  dissolved  in  a  little  hot 
water,  and  as  much  Graham  flour  as  can  be  stirred  in  with  a 
spoon;  pour  in  well-greased  pan,  put  in  oven  as  soon  as  mixed, 
and  bake  two  hours, 

GRAHAM  BREAD— PROVIDENCE  STYLE. 

Two  quarts  Graham  flour,  one  quart  (small)  white  flour, 
one  cup  molasses,  one-half  cup  yeast;  sift  only  the  white  flour; 
one  quart  of  tepid  water  is  enough  to  make  it  soft  as  pound- 
cake batter. 

INDIAN  LOAF  —  BOSTON  STYLE. —  Miss  M.  Griswold. 

2  quarts  Indian  meal.  4  quarts  milk. 

1  pint  rye  flour.  1  large  table-spoon  salt. 

\  cup  molasses.  \  cup  yeast. 

Heat  the  milk  boiling  hot;  then  turn  it  over  the  meal, 
scalding  thoroughly ;  when  nearly  cold  add  the  }7east,  molasses, 
salt,  and  rye  flour;  turn  into  a  well  greased  iron  kettle  or  deep 
tin,  and  let  it  rise  for  half  an  hour;  bake  for  five  hours,  leav- 
in  the  tin  over  night;  then  heat  in  the  morning,  and  turn  out 
for  breakfast  smoking  hot.  Excellent. 


GRAHAM  BREAD— No.  3. 


INDIAN  BREAD — STEAMED. — M rs.  Brooks. 


3  cups  corn  meal. 
2  cups  sour  milk. 
1  cup  molasses. 


2  cups  flour. 
1  cup  sweet  milk. 
1  tea-spoon  soda. 


1  tea-spoon  salt. 


Steam  three  hours. 


ii 


82 


Yeast. 


TO  MAKE  GOOD  FOOD  OF  POOR  BREAD. 

If  dry  or  sour  bread  is  cut  iuto  small  pieces  and  put  in  a 
pan,  and  set  in  a  very  moderately  warm  oven  till  of  a  light 
brown,  and  hard  and  dry  in  the  center,  it  can  be  kept  for 
weeks.  Whenever  you  wish  to  use  a  portion  of  them  for  pud- 
dings or  griddle  cakes,  soak  them  soft  in  cold  water  or  milk. 
If  the  bread  is  sour,  use  sufficient  saleratus  or  soda  to  destroy 
the  acidity  of  it  in  making  the  pudding  or  cakes.  With 
proper  care,  there  need  be  no  waste  of  even  poor  bread. 


YEAST. 


There  are  various  wa}Ts  of  making,  but  the  three  best  kinds 
are  dry,  soft  hop,  and  potato  yeast.  The  dry  should  be  made 
in  May  or  June^for  summer  use,  and  in  October  for  winter 
use.  In  hot  and  damp  weather,  dry  yeast  sometimes  loses  its 
vitality;  however,  many  use  it  on  account  of  its  convenience, 
since  there  is  no  danger  of  its  souring  in  summer  or  freezing 
in  winter.  Soft  hop  or  potato  yeast  will  keep  in  a  cool  place 
one  or  two  weeks  in  warm  weather,  and  in  cold  weather  five 
or  six  weeks,  care  being  taken  that  it  does  not  freeze.  Never 
add  soda  to  yeast;  if  it  becomes  sour  it  will  do  to  start  fresh 
yeast,  but  will  never  make  good  bread.  Potato  yeast  is  made 
either  by  boiling  and  mashing  the  potatoes,  or  by  grating 
them  while  raw,  and  adding  them  to  the  boiling  hop  water 
immediately,  for  if  allowed  to  stand  they  darken,  and  the 
yeast  will  not  be  as  white.  A  good  way  to  prevent  the  pota- 
toes from  darkening  is  to  grate  them  into  a  pan  half  filled 
with  cold  water.  As  grated  the  potatoes  sink  to  the  bottom ; 
when  done  grating,  pour  off  the  water  and  add  the  potatoes  to 
the  boiling  hop  water.  A  stone  jar  with  a  close-fitting  cover 
is  best  to  keep  yeast  in,  and  should  be  scalded  as  often  as 
emptied.    In  taking  out  for  use,  stir  up  well  from  the  bottom. 


Yeast. 


83 


YEAST  TO  LAST  SIX  MONTHS. — Mrs.  John  II.  Webb, 

Erie,  Pa. 


Grate  potatoes;  put  flour  and  potatoes  together;  have  hop 
water  boiling;  pour  over  flour  and  potatoes;  then  salt;  it  must 
be  quite  thin ;  when  luke-warm  put  in  yeast ;  let  rise  two  days ; 
then  it  is  fit  to  bottle,  and  you  use  one  cup  yeast  to  a  small 
baking.    It  will  keep  good  for  six  months. 


Boil  two  large  potatoes  and  a  handful  of  hops  (the  latter  in 
a  bag)  in  three  pints  water;  when  done,  take  out  potatoes, 
mash  well,  add  one  pint  flour,  and  pour  boiling  hot  water  over 
all;  beat  well  together,  adding  one  table-spoon  salt,  one  of 
ginger,  and  one-half  cup  sugar;  when  luke-warm  add  one  cup 
good  yeast  and  let  stand  two  days  (or  only  one  day,  if  very 
warm  weather),  stirring  down  frequently;  add  good  white 
corn  meal  until  thick  enough  to  make  into  cakes  about  half 
an  inch  in  thickness ;  place  to  dry  in  the  shade  where  the  air 
will  pass  freely  so  as  to  dry  them  as  soon  as  possible;  turn 
the  cakes  frequently,  breaking  them  up  somewhat  so  they  will 
dry  out  evenly;  when  thoroughly  dried  put  in  a  paper  sack, 
and  keep  in  a  dry  place.  A  small  cake  will  make  sponge  suf- 
ficient to  bake  five  or  six  ordinary  loaves. 


Boil  four  potatoes  and  a  small  handful  of  hops  tied  in  a  bag 
in  one  gallon  water;  when  the  potatoes  are  done,  pour  the 
water  over  four  table-spoons  flour  in  a  stone  jar,  mash  and  add 
potatoes;  let  stand  until  milk  warm,  then  add  one  cup  hop 
yeast,  stir  well  and  let  remain  in  kitchen  cupboard  for  twelve 
hours  undisturbed ;  then  add  half  a  cup  sugar,  put  in  a  stone 
jug,  cork  tightly  and  set  in  a  cool  place.  In  summer  add  one 
table-spoon  ginger  and  three  of  salt;  shake  well  and  take  one 
cup  yeast  to  three  pints  water.  This  yeast  will  keep  sweet  for 
six  weeks. 


6  medium  potatoes. 
1  tea-cup  sugar. 
A  little  salt. 


1  handful  hops. 
1  tea-cup  flour. 
1  pint  yeast. 


DRY  YEAST. 


HOP  YEAST. 


84 


Yeast. 


POTATO  YEAST  WITHOUT  HOPS. 

Four  good-sized  potatoes  peeled,  boiled  and  mashed,  four 
table-spoous  white  sugar,  one  of  ginger,  one  of  salt,  two  cups 
flour;  pour  over  this  a  pint  of  boiling  water,  and  beat  till  all 
the  lumps  disappear.  After  it  has  cooled,  add  to  it  one  cup 
good  yeast  and  set  away  to  rise;  when  risen  put  in  a  glass  or 
stone  jar,  cover  and  set  away  in  a  cool  place. 

POTATO  YEAST. 

Boil  one  cup  hops  in  a  sack  in  two  quarts  water  for  fifteen 
minutes,  remove  sack  with  hops,  add  five  good-sized  Irish  po- 
tatoes, peeled  and  grated  raw,  one  cup  white  sugar,  one  table- 
spoon salt,  and  one  of  ginger;  stir  occasionally  and  cook  from 
five  to  ten  minutes,  and  it  will  boil  up  thick  like  starch;  turn 
into  a  jar,  and  when  just  tepid  in  summer,  or  quite  warm  in 
winter,  add  one-half  pint  yeast. 

BAKING  POWDER. — Lottie  Landon. 

Seven  ounces  tartaric  acid,  eight  ounces  soda,  three  cups 
flour.    Mix  well  and  you  have  a  very  nice  powder. 


Breakfast  and  Tea  Cakes. 


85 


BREAKFAST  and  TEA  CAKES. 


To  make  biscuit,  take  a  part  of  the  dough  left  from  bread- 
making  when  it  is  ready  to  mould  into  loaves,  work  in  lard 
and  any  other  ingredients  desired,  such  as  butter,  eggs,  sugar, 
spice,  etc.,  also  using  a  little  more  flour;  let  rise  once,  then 
mix  down  and  let  rise  again;  turn  out  on  the  bread-board; 
knead  a  few  minutes,  roll,  and  cut  out  with  a  biscuit-cutter  or 
mold  with  the  hand.  Place  in  a  well-greased  dripping-pan, 
and  when  light  bake  in  a  quick  oven  from  fifteen  to  twenty 
minutes.  To  make  them  a  nice  color,  wet  the  top  with  warm 
water  just  before  placing  in  the  oven.  If  wanted  for  tea,  rub 
the  flour  and  butter,  and  boil  the  milk,  and  cool  it  the  night 
before;  add  sugar,  yeast,  and  salt,  and  turn  all  into  the  flour, 
but  do  not  stir.  Let  stand  over  night;  in  the  morning  stir  up, 
knead,  and  let  rise  till  near  tea-time;  mold  and  let  rise  again, 
and  bake  quickly.  To  mold,  cut  with  cake-cutter;  put  a  little 
melted  butter  on  one-half  and  lap  nearly  over  on  the  other 
half.  Place  them  in  the  pan  about  three-quarters  of  an  inch 
apart. 

BREAKFAST  TOAST. 

Add  to  one-half  pint  of  sweet  milk,  two  table-spoons  sugar, 
a  little  salt  and  a  well-beaten  egg;  dip  in  this  slices  of  bread 
(if  dry,  let.it  soak  a  minute),  and  fry  on  a  buttered  griddle 
until  it  is  a  light  brown  on  each  side.  This  is  a  good  way  to 
use  dry  bread. 

BUTTERED  TOAST. 

Although  toast  is  commonly  used,  few  know  how  to  prepare 
it  nicely.  Take  bread,  not  too  fresh,  cut  thin  and  evenly,  trim 
off  the  crust-edges  for  the  crumb-jar;  first  warm  each  side  of 
the  bread,  then  present  the  first  side  again  to  the  fire  until  it 
takes  on  a  rich,  even,  brown  color;  treat  the  other  side  in  the 
same  way;  butter  and  serve  immediately.    The  coals  should 


86 


Breakfast  and  Tea  Cakes. 


be  bright  and  hot.  Toast  properly  made  is  very  digestible, 
because  all  the  moisture  is  extracted,  and  the  bread  has  be- 
come pure  farina  of  wheat,  but  when  it  is  exposed  to  a  hot  fire 
and  the  outside  charred,  the  inside  remains  as  moist  as  ever. 
Butter  applied  to  it  while  warm  does  not  penetrate,  but  floats 
on  the  surface  in  the  form  of  rancid  oil.  Or,  beat  one  cup  of 
butter  and  three  table-spoons  flour  to  a  cream,  pour  over  this 
one  and  a  half  pints  boiling  water;  place  over  a  kettle  of  boil- 
ing water  for  ten  minutes,  dip  into  it  the  toast,  and  serve  hot. 

Or,  clip  each  slice  of  toast  in  boiling  hot  water  (slightbr 
salted),  spread  with  butter,  cover  and  keep  hot. 

BUNS. 

Break  one  egg  into  a  cup  and  fill  with  sweet  milk;  mix  with 
it  half  cup  of  yeast,  half  cup  butter,  one  cup  sugar,  enough 
flour  to  make  soft  dough;  flavor  with  nutmeg.  Let  rise  till 
very  light,  then  mould  into  biscuit  with  a  few  currants.  Let 
rise  a  second  time  in  pan;  bake,  and  when  nearly  done,  glaze 
with  a  little  molasses  and  milk.  Use  the  same  cup,  no  matter 
about  the  size,  for  each  measure. 

GEMS. 

One  pint  of  sweet  milk,  one  pint  graham  flour,  one  table- 
spoon melted  butter,  one-quarter  tea-spoon  soda,  salt.  Bake 
in  gem  irons. 

COLD  WATER  GEMS. 
With  very  cold  or  ice-water  and  Graham  flour,  and  a  little 
salt,  make  a  rather  stiff  batter;  heat  and  grease  the  irons,  and 
bake  twenty  minutes  in  a  hot  oven. 

GOOD  GRAHAM  GEMS. 
Three  cups  of  sour  milk,  one  tea-spoon  of  soda,  one  of  salt, 
one  table-spoon,  of  brown  sugar,  one  of  melted  lard,  one  beaten 
egg;  to  the  egg  add  the  milk,  then  the  sugar  and  salt,  then 
the  Graham  flour  (with  the  soda  mixed  in),  together  with  the 
lard;  make  a  stiff  batter,  so  that  it  will  drop,  not  pour,  from 
the  spoon.  Have  gem  pans  very  hot,  grease,  fill,  and  bake 
fifteen  minutes  in  a  hot  oven. 


Breakfast  and  Tea  Cakes. 


87 


SWEET  MILK  GEMS. 

Beat  one  egg  well,  add  a  pint  of  new  milk,  a  little  salt,  and 
Graham  flour  until  it  will  drop  off  the  spoon  nicely;  heat  and 
butter  the  gem-pans  before  dropping  in  the  dough;  bake  in  a 
hot  oven  twenty  minutes. 

FRITTERS. 

Make  fritters  quickly  and  beat  thoroughly.  A  good  rule 
for  them  is  two  eggs,  one  half  pint  milk,  one  teaspoon  salt,  and 
two  cups  flour;  have  the  lard  in  which  to  cook  them  nice  and 
sweet  and  boiling  hot;  test  the  heat  by  dropping  in  a  tea-spoon 
of  the  batter — if  the  temperature  is  right  it  will  quickly  rise 
in  a  light  ball  with  a  splutter,  and  soon  brown;  take  up  care- 
fully the  moment  they  are  done,  with  a  wire  spoon ;  drain  in  a 
hot  colander  and  sift  powdered  sugar  over  them ;  serve  hot. 

APPLE  FRITTERS— No.  1. 

Three  eggs  beaten  very  light,  one  quart  of  milk;  make  a 
thin  batter,  add  a  little  salt  and  the  grated  rind  of  one  lemon; 
pare,  core  and  slice  thin  one  quart  nice  tart  apples,  add  and 
drop  in  spoonfuls  in  boiling  lard ;  serye  with  sauce. 

APPLE  FRITTERS— No.  2. 

Make  a  batter  in  proportion  of  one  cup  of  sweet  milk  to  two 
cups  flour,  a  heaping  tea-spoon  baking  powder,  two  eggs 
beaten  separately,  one  table-spoon  sugar,  and  a  salt-spoon  salt; 
heat  the  milk  a  little  more  than  milk-warm,  add  slowly  to  the 
beaten  yolks  and  sugar,  then  add  flour  and  whites  of  eggs,  stir 
all  together,  and  throw  in  thin  slices  of  good  sour  apples,  clip- 
ping the  batter  up  over  them ;  drop  in  boiling  lard  in  large 
spoonfuls  with  piece  of  apple  in  each,  and  fry  to  a  light  brown. 
Serve  with  maple  syrup  or  a  nice  syrup  made  of  sugar. 

CLAM  FRITTERS. 

Take  raw  clams,  chopped  fine,  and  make  a  batter  with  juice, 
an  equal  quantity  of  sweet  milk,  four  eggs  to  each  pint  of 
liquid,  and  flour  sufficient  to  stiffen;  fry  like  other  fritters. 


88 


Breakfast  and  Tea  Cakes. 


CORN  FRITTERS — Mrs.  Robert  Saltsman. 

One  dozen  ears  corn,  six  eggs,  four  table-spoons  cream ;  sea- 
son with  salt  and  pepper ;  drop  in  hot  lard ;  fry  until  brown. 

RICE  PUFFS. 

To  one  pint  of  rice  flour  add  tea-spoon  salt,  one  pint  boiling 
water,  four  eggs  beaten  separately,  then  stir  well  together; 
spoonful  butter;  drop  batter  in  hot  lard ;  fry  brown. 

CORN  OYSTERS. 

Mix  well  together  one  quart  grated  sweet  corn,  two  tea-cups 
sweet  milk,  one  tea-cup  flour,  one  tea-spoon  butter,  two  eggs 
well  beaten;  season  with  pepper  and  salt,  and  fry  in  butter 
like  griddle  cakes. 

CUCUMBER  FRITTERS. 

Peel  four  large  cucumbers,  cut  and  cook  in  a  sauce-pan  with 
just  a  little  water;  mash  and  season  well  with  salt  and  pepper, 
add  two  beaten  eggs  and  flour  to  make  a  thick  batter;  put  a 
table-spoon  of  lard  in  a  skillet,  make  hot,  and  fry  in  little 
cakes. 

CREAM  FRITTERS. 

One  and  a  half  pints  flour,  one  pint  milk,  six  well-beaten 
eggs,  one-half  nutmeg,  two  tea-spoons  salt,  one  pint  cream; 
stir  the  whole  enough  to  mix  the  cream ;  fry  in  small  cakes. 

SNOW  FRITTERS. 

Stir  together  milk,  flour,  and  a  little  salt,  and  make  a  rather 
thick  batter;  add  new-fallen  snow  in  the  proportion  of  a  tea- 
cup to  a  pint  of  milk;  have  the  fat  hot  before  stirring  in  the 
snow,  and  drop  the  batter  into  it  with  a  spoon,  or  bake  like 
pan-cakes  on  a  hot  griddle. 

MUFFINS. 

Mix  one  tea-spoon  of  baking-powder  and  a  little  salt  into 
one  pint  of  flour;  add  to  the  beaten  yolks  of  two  eggs  one  tea- 
cup of  sweet  milk  or  cream,  a  piece  of  butter  (melted)  half 


Breakfast  and  Tea  Cakes. 


80 


the  size  of  an  egg,  the  flour  with  baking-powder  and  salt 
mixed,  and  the  well-beaten  whites  of  the  two  eggs.  Beat  well, 
bake  immediately  in  gem  pans  in  a  hot  oven,  and  take  out  and 
send  to  the  table  immediately. 

GRAHAM  MUFFINS. 

Two  cups  of  sour  milk,  two  table-spoons  brown  sugar,  a  lit- 
tle salt,  one  tea-spoon  soda,  sufficient  Graham  flour  to  make 
moderately  stiff.  If  not  convenient  to  use  sour  milk,  use 
sweet,  adding  cream  of  tartar. 

POCKET-BOOKS — M rs.  A.  <7.  Foster. 

Warm  one  quart  new  milk,  add  one  cup  butter  or  lard,  four 
table-spoons  sugar,  and  two  well  beaten  eggs;  stir  in  flour 
enough  to  make  a  moderately  stiff  sponge,  add  a  small  cup  of 
yeast,  and  set  in  a  warm  place  to  rise,  which  will  take  three 
or  four  hours;  then  mix  in  flour  enough  to  make  a  soft  dough 
and  let  rise  again.  When  well  risen,  dissolve  a  lump  of  soda 
size  of  a  bean  in  a  spoon  of  milk,  work  it  into  the  dough  and 
roll  into  sheets  one-half  inch  in  thickness;  spread  with  thin 
layer  of  butter,  cut  into  squares,  and  fold  over,  pocket-book 
shape;  put  on  tins  or  in  pans  to  rise  for  a  little  while,  when 
they  will  be  fit  for  the  oven.  In  summer  the  sponge  can  be 
made  up  in  the  morning,  and  rise  in  time  to  make  for  tea. 
In  cool  weather  it  is  best  to  set  it  over  night.  Good. 

FLANNEL  ROLLS — Mrs  Dobbins, 

One  cup  of  flour,  one  cup  of  milk,  one  egg  well  beaten.  This 
makes  fine  rolls;  put  in  cup  quarter  inch  deep;  bake  three- 
quarters  of  an  hour. 

FRENCH  ROLLS 

Peel  six  common-sized,  meaty  potatoes,  boil  in  two  quarts 
of  water,  press  and  drain  both  potatoes  and  water  through  a 
colander;  when  cool  enough  so  as  not  to  scald,  add  flour  to 
make  a  thick  batter,,  beat  well,  and  when  lukewarm,  add  one- 
half  cup  potato  yeast.    Make  this  sponge  early  in  the  morn- 

13 


90 


Breakfast  and  Tea  Cakes, 


ing,  and  when  light  turn  into  a  bread-pan,  add  a  tea-spoon 
salt,  half  cup  lard,  and  flour  enough  to  make  a  soft  dough: 
mix  up,  and  set  in  a  warm,  even  temperature;  when  risen, 
knead  down  and  place  again  to  rise,  repeating  this  process  five 
or  six  times;  cut  in  small  pieces  and  mould  on  the  bread- 
board in  rolls  about  one  inch  thick  by  five  long;  roll  in  melted 
butter  or  sweet  lard,  and  put  in  well- greased  baking-pans 
(nine  inches  long  by  five  wide  and  two  and  a  half  in  depth 
makes  a  convenient  sized  pan.  which  holds  fifteen  of  these 
rolls;  or,  if  twice  the  width,  put  in  two  rows);  press  the  rolls 
closely  together,  so  that  they  will  only  be  about  half  an  inch 
in  width.  Let  rise  a  short  time  and  bake  twenty  minutes  in 
a  hot  oven;  if  the  top  browns  too  rapidly  cover  with  paper. 
These  rolls,  if  properfy  made,  are  very  white,  light  and  tender. 

Or,  make  rolls  larger,  and  just  before  putting  them  in  the 
oven,  cut  deeply  across  each  one  with  a  sharp  knife.  This 
will  make  the  cleft  roll,  so  famous  among  French  cooks. 

MINNESOTA  BOLLS. 

Rub  one-half  table-spoon  of  lard  into  one  quart  of  flour, 
make  a  well  in  the  middle,  put  in  one-half  cup  of  baker's 
yeast — or  one  cup  of  home-made — two  tea-spoons  sugar,  one- 
half  pint  cold  boiled  milk;  do  not  stir,  but  let  stand  over 
night;  in  the  morning  knead  well,  after  dinner  knead  again, 
cut  out,  put  in  pans,  and  let  rise  until  tea  time.  Bake  in  a 
quick  oven. 

PARKER  HOUSE  ROLLS.    No.  1. — Mrs.  K. 

Take  two  quarts  flour  and  rub  in  a  table-spoon  of  lard;  one 
pint  cold  boiled  milk,  half  cup  sugar,  half  cup  yeast.  Make  a 
hole  in  centre  of  the  flour  and  put  the  liquid  in;  let  it  stand 
over  night.  In  the  morning  knead  it  and  let  it  rise  till  noon, 
then  knead  again.  Make  into  long,  narrow  rolls  and  let  them 
stand  till  tea  time,  then  bake. 


Breakfast  and  Tea  Cakes. 


91 


PARKER  HOUSE  ROLLS — No.  2. 

At  night  take  two  quarts  of  flour,  rub  in  two  table-spoons- 
ful of  lard;  make  a  hole  in  the  middle  and  put  in  one  pint  of 
cold  boiled  milk,  one-half  cup  of  yeast,  three  table-spoonsful 
of  sugar,  and  a  little  salt.  Let  this  stand  until  morning  with- 
out mixing;  then  beat  it  hard  and  let  it  stand  until  noon. 
Then  roll  out  and  cut  round,  spread  on  a  little  butter  and  fold 
over,  put  in  the  pan  and  let  stand  until  ready  to  bake. 

WEDDING  SANDWICH  ROLLS. — Mrs.  John  S,  Sherley, 

Bradford. 

Late  in  the  evening  make  a  rather  stiff  potato  sponge,  and 
in  the  morning  mix  in  as  much  flour  as  will  make  a  soft 
dough,  knead  well  and  place  to  rise  when  sufficiently  light 
knead  down  again,  repeating  the  operation  two  or  three  times, 
remembering  not  to  let  the  dough  become  sour  by  rising  too 
light;  mould  into  common-sized  loaves,  place  in  your  dripping 
pan  to  rise,  and  bake  very  carefully,  so  as  to  secure  the  very 
lightest  brown  crust  possible.  On  taking  out  of  the  oven  roll 
in  a  cloth  tightly  wrung  out  of  water,  with  a  large  bread 
blanket  folded  and  wrapped  around  all.  Let  cool  three  or 
four  hours,  cut  lengthwise  of  the  loaf  (not  using  the  outside 
piece),  first  spreading  lightly  with  good  sweet  butter,  then 
cutting  in  slices  not  more  than  a  quarter  of  an  inch,  or 
just  as  thin  as  possible,  using  for  this  purpose  a  very  thin, 
sharp  knife;  lay  on  cold  boiled  ham  cut  in  very  thin  shavings 
(no  matter  if  in  small  pieces),  roll  up  very  slowly  and  care- 
fully, and  place  where  it  will  not  unroll.  Treat  each  sand- 
wich in  the  same  manner,  always  spreading  the  bread  with 
butter  before  cutting.  If  by  chance  the  bread  is  baked  with 
too  hard  a  crust,  cut  off  a  thin  shaving  of  the  brownest  part 
very  smoothly  before  making  into  sandwiches.  These  sand- 
wiches are  truly  delicious  if  properly  made,  but  they  require 
great  care,  experience,  and  good  judgment.  Served  on  an 
oblong  platter,  piled  in  pyramid  style,  row  upon  row,  they 
resemble  nicely  roiled  dinner  napkins.  They  must  be  made 
and  served  the  same  day. 


92 


Breakfast  and  Tea  Cakes. 


RUSK.— No.  1. 

Two  tea-cups  raised  dough,  one  tea-cup  sugar,  half  cup  but- 
ter, two  well-beaten  eggs,  flour  enough  to  make  a  stiff  dough; 
set  to  rise,  and  when  light  mould  into  high  biscuit,  and  let 
rise  again ;  sift  sugar  and  cinnamon  over  the  top,  and  place 
in  oven. 

RUSK. — No.  2. 

One  pint  milk,  three  eggs,  one  cup  butter,  one  cup  sugar, 
and  one  coffee-cup  potato  yeast;  thicken  with  flour  and  sponge 
over  night ;  in  the  morning  stir  clown,  let  rise,  and  stir  down 
again:  when  it  rises  make  into  a  loaf,  and  let  rise  again:  then 
roll  out  like  soda  biscuit,  cut  and  put  in  pans,  and,  when  light, 
bake  carefully-  Or,  when  baking  take  four  cups  dough,  one- 
half  cup  butter,  one  cup  sugar,  three  eggs;  mix  thoroughly, 
adding  enough  flour  to  mould  easily;  let  rise,  make  into  rather 
high  and  narrow  biscuit,  let  rise  again,  rub  the  •  tops  with  a 
little  sugar  and  water,  then  sprinkle  over  them  dry  sugar. 
Bake  twenty  minutes. 

OHIO  WAFFLES. 

Four  eggs  beaten  separately,  one  quart  of  sweet  milk,  one- 
fourth  pound  of  butter,  a  little  salt,  flour  to  make  a  not  very 
thick  batter;  heat  and  butter  the  irons  well,  and  bake  very 
quickly.  If  for  tea,  grate  on  a  little  sugar  and  nutmeg,  or  cin- 
namon ;  if  for  breakfast,  only  butter. 

QUICK  WAFFLES. 

Two  pints  sweet  milk,  one  cup  of  butter  (melted),  sifted 
flour  to  make  a  soft  batter;  add  the  well-beaten  yolks  of  six 
eggs,  then  the  beaten  whites,  and  lastly  (just  before  baking), 
four  tea-spoons  baking  powder,  beating  very  hard  and  fast  for 
a  few  minutes.  These  are  very  good  with  four  or  five  eggs, 
but  much  better  with  more. 

RAISED  WAFFLES. 
One  quart  of  flour,  one  pint  of  sweet,  lukewarm  milk,  two 
eggs,  a  table-spoon  of  melted  butter,  tea-spoon  of  salt  half  tea- 
cup of  good  yeast. 


Breakfast  and  Tea  Cakes. 


93 


RICE  WAFFLES. 
Boil  half  a  pint  of  rice  and  let  it  get  cold;  mix  with  it  one- 
fourth  pound  of  butter  and  a  little  salt.  Sift  in  it  one  and  a 
half  pints  of  flour,  beat  five  eggs  separately,  stir  the  yolks 
together  with  one  quart  of  milk,  add  whites  beaten  to  a  stiff 
froth,  beat  hard,  and  bake  at  once  in  waffle-irons. 

VANITIES. — Mrs.  Scott 

Beat  two  eggs,  stir  in  a  pinch  of  salt  and  a  half  tea-spoon  of 
rose-water,  add  sifted  flour  till  just  thick  enough  to  roll  out, 
cut  with  a  cake-cutter ,  and  fry  quickly  in  hot  lard.  Sift  pow- 
dered sugar  on  them  while  hot,  and  when  cool  put  a  tea-spoon 
of  jelly  in  the  center  of  each  one.    Nice  for  tea  or  dessert, 

FRIED  MUSH. 
A  delicious  breakfast  relish  is  made  by  slicing  cold  mush 
thin  and  frying  in  a  little  hot  lard.    Or,  dip  in  beaten  eggs, 
salted  to  taste,  then  in  bread  or  cracker  crumbs,  and  drop  in 
hot  lard,  like  dough-nuts. 

JOHNNY  CAKE. 
Three  cupfuls  of  sour  milk,  two  eggs  beaten  light,  half  cup- 
ful of  melted  butter  or  fryings,  a  table-spoonful  of  sugar,  one 
teaspoonful  of  soda  dissolved  in  the  milk,  teaspoonful  of  salt; 
mix  all  together  with  sufficient  oat  meal  to  make  a  thin  batter. 
Bake  on  a  griddle, 

ROLLED  PANCAKES. 
Beat  six  eggs  separately;  stir  the  yolks  into  one  quart  of 
warm  milk  with  a  table-spoonful  of  melted  butter  and  a  tea- 
spoonful of  salt;  add  sufficient  flour  to  make  a  thin  batter; 
then  sprinkle  in  one  tea-spoonful  of  yeast  powder,  and  stir  in 
the  whites  of  the  eggs;  put  a  frying-pan  on  the  fire;  when  it 
is  hot,  grease  with  a  spoonful  of  lard;  pour  in  a  cupful  of  bat- 
ter, fry  to  a  light  brown,  and  turn  carefully,  so  as  not  to  break 
the  cake;  when  brown  on  both  sides,  lift  out  and  spread  with 
strawberry  jam  or  an}7  kind  of  jam  or  marmalade  you  have; 
roll  up  nicely  and  lay  them  on  a  plate;  sprinkle  with  pulver- 
ized sugar;  send  to  the  table  hot,  and  serve  with  or  without 
cream. 


94 


Cakes. 


CAKES. 


In  baking  cakes  it  is  important  to  thoroughly  grease  the 
tins — to  make  an  empty  one  ready,  thoroughly  grease  and  rub 
with  a  coarse  towel,  taking  care  that  the  tin  is  free  from  any 
small  particles  of  cake,  grease  again  and  fill,  thus  obviating 
the  necessity  of  washing  every  time  they  are  filled.  If  jelly  is 
used  to  spread  between  the  layers,  it  is  a  good  plan  to  beat  it 
smoothly  and  spread  it  before  the  cakes  are  quite  cool  In 
"  building,"  an  inverted  jelly  tin  furnishes  a  perfectly  level 
surface  on  which  to  lay  and  spread  the  cake,  and  it  ma}r  be 
allowed  to  remain  on  it  until  perfectly  cold,  when  it  should  be 
set  away  in  a  tin  cake  box,  in  a  cool  place. 

To  blanch  almonds,  pour  boiling  water  over  them,  let  stand 
a  moment,  drain,  throw  them  into  cold  water,  slip  off  the  skins, 
and  pound. 

ALMOND  CAKE. — Mrs.  G.  W.  Bone,  Buffalo. 


2  cups  sugar, 
1  cup  butter, 
1  cup  milk, 

Eggs  beaten  separately. 


3  cups  flour. 
6  eggs, 

3  tea-spoons  baking  powder. 


ICING  FOR  ALMOND  CAKE. 

One  cup  sweet  cream  beaten  stiff;  1  cup  of  sugar  stirred  in, 

ALMOND  CAKE  LOAF. — Mrs,  B.  W.  Flower,  Philadelphia. 

1  cup  butter,  4  eggs,  beaten  separate, 

2  cups  sugar,  I  tea-spoon  soda,  . 

3  cups  flour,  -J  pound  citron, 

1  cup  sour  cream,  1  pound  unshelled  almonds. 

Shell,  blanch  and  chop  the  almonds  fine.  Roll  citron  and 
almonds  in  flour. 


Cakes. 


95 


,    APPLE  FRUIT  CAKE. 

One  cup  butter,  two  of  sugar,  one  of  milk,  two  eggs,  tea- 
spoon soda,  three  and  a  half  cups  flour,  two  of  raisius,  three  of 
dried  apples  soaked  over  night  and  then  chopped  fine  and 
stewed  two  hours  in  two  cups  molasses:  beat  butter  and  sugar 
to  a  cream,  add  milk  in  which  dissolve  soda,  then  the  beaten 
eggs  and  flour,  and  lastly  the  raisins  and  apples  well  stirred 
in ;  pour  in  pan  and  bake  an  hour  and  a  half. 

ANGELS'  FOOD. 

One-half  tumbler  granulated  sugar,  one  tumbler  of  sifted 
flour,  one  tea-spoon  cream  of  tartar,  one  tea-spoon  vaniila;  sift 
the  flour  four  times,  then  add  the  cream  of  tartar  and  sift 
again,  but  have  the  right  measure  before  adding  the  cream  of 
tartar;  sift  sugar  and  measure;  beat  the  whites  of  eleven  eggs 
to  a  stiff  froth,  then  add  the  sugar  lightly,  a  little  at  a  time, 
then  the  flour  the  same  way,  then  the  vanilla;  do  not  stop 
beating  until  you  put  in  the  pan  to  bake.  Bake  forty  minutes 
in  a  moderate  oven,  not  opening  the  door  for  the  first  fifteen 
minutes;  try,  and  if  not  done,  let  stand  a  few  moments  longer. 
The  tumbler  must  hold  two  and  one-quarter  gills. 

Icing. — Whites  of  two  eggs,  two  tea-cups  of  sugar;  boil  the 
sugar  with  just  enough  water  to  moisten  it;  pour  boiling  hot, 
very  slowly  over  the  beaten  eggs;  dissolve  a  small  half  tea- 
spoonful  of  citric  acid  in  a  table-spoonful  of  water  and  put  in 
enough  of  it  to  make  a  pleasant  flavor. 

ANGELS'  FOOD- No.  2.— Mrs.  Jno.  M.  Clark,  Meadville. 

Whites  of  11  eggs,  f  lb.  granulated  sugar,  5  ounces  sifted 
flour,  1  tea-spoonful  cream  of  tartar,  1  tea-spoonful  vanilla. 
Beat  the  whites  very  stiff;  add  the  sugar,  then  the  flour 
gently;  sift  the  flour  four  times,  then  measure,  add  the  cream 
of  tartar  and  sift  again;  vanilla  last;  keep  beating  till  you 
put  in  the  pan.  Bake  forty  minutes  in  a  moderate  oven. 
Do  not  grease  the  pan.  When  done  turn  upside  down  to  cool, 
then  take  from  the  pan  and  ice. 

Don't  breathe  or  talk  while  making  or  baking. 


96 


Cakes. 


ANGELS'  FOOD — No.  3.— Mrs.  F.  F.  Adams. 


Whites  10  eggs  beaten, 
1  cup  flour, 

1  tea-spoon  cream  tartar. 


1  cup  sugar, 
Sift  together  three  times. 


Mix  in  eggs  and  vanilla. 

BLACK  CAKE. — Mrs.  Cannon,  Danville. 
One  pound  butter,  one  of  brown  sugar,  one  of  flour,  one  of 
raisins,  one  of  currants,  half  pound  citron,  table-spoon  each 
cinnamon,  allspice  and  cloves,  ten  eggs  the  whites  and  yolks 
beaten  separately,  three  tea-spoons  baking  powder;  add  just 
before  baking  a  wine-glassful  brandy  or  third  of  a  cup  good 
molasses;  seed  raisins,  chop  citron  fine,  and  wash  and  dry  the 
currants;  mix  butter  and  sugar,  add  the  eggs,  and  lastly  the 
flour  in  which  the  fruit,  spices  and  baking  powder  have  been 
well  mixed.    Bake  in  a  six-quart  pan  four  hours. 

BOILED  FROSTING. — Mrs.  F.  F.  Adams. 
One  cup  of  granulated  sugar,  two  table-spoons  of  water,  two 


Whites  of  twelve  eggs,  three  cups  sugar,  small  cup  butter,  a 
cup  sweet  milk,  four  small  cups  flour,  half  cup  corn  starch, 
two  tea-spoons  baking  powder,  lemon  to  taste.  Adding  a  cup 
of  citron  sliced  thin  and  dusted  with  flour,  makes  a  beautiful 
citron  cake. 


One  cup  butter,  two  of  sugar,  one  of  milk,  five  eggs,  leaving 
out  the  whites  of  three,  four  cups  sifted  flour,  two  tea-spoons 
baking  powder;  bake  in  three  layers  in  deep  jelly-tins.  For 
icing,  take  whites  of  three  eggs  beaten  stiff,  one  and  a  half 
cups  powdered  sugar,  six  table-spoous  grated  chocolate,  two 
tea-spoons  vanilla. 


The  whites  of  eight  eggs,  two  cups  sugai*,  one  of  butter, 
three  full  cups  flour,  one  of  sweet  milk,  three  tea-spoons  bak- 


eggs. 


BRIDE'S  CAKE. 


CHOCOLATE  CAKE. 


CHOCOLATE  CAKE— DELICIOUS. 


Cakes 


ing  powder;  beat  the  butter  to  a  cream,  stir  in  the  sugar,  and 
beat  until  light,  add  the  milk,  then  the  flour  and  beaten 
whites.  When  well  beaten  divide  into  two  equal  parts,  and 
into  half  grate  a  cake  of  sweet  chocolate.  Bake  in  layers, 
spread  with  custard,  and  alternate  the  white  and  dark  cakes, 
For  custard  for  the  cake,  add  a  table-spoon  of  butter  to  one 
pint  of  milk,  and  let  it  come  to  a  boil;  stir  in  two  eggs  beaten 
with  one  cup  of  sugar,  add  two  tea-spoons  corn  starch  dis- 
solved in  a  little  milk, 


CHOCOLATE  CUSTAED  CAKE, 


2  cups  flour. 

cups  sugar, 
\  cup  butter. 


4-  cup  milk, 

1^  tea-spoons  baking  powder. 
Whites  of  6  eggs. 


CINNAMON  SNAPS. 

2  cups  molasses,  §  cup  butter, 

1  cup  brown  sugar.  1  table-spoon  cinnamon. 

Pour  into  a  tin  pan  and  boil  until  they  thicken  a  little.  Stir 
in  by  degrees  a  good  handful  of  sifted  flour.  After  this  is 
heated  well  add  a  heaping  teaspoon  soda  dissolved  in  a  little 
tepid  water:  mix  thoroughly  before  taking  from  stove,  then 
add  flour  enough  to  make  a  stiff  dough;  roll  very  thin,  cut  the 
cakes  in  shape  and  bake  in  a  quick  oven. 


CINNAMON  SNAPS— No,  2, 

1  cup  sugar,  1  egg, 

\  cup  butter.  2  cups  flour, 

2  table-spoons  cinnamon. 


CINNAMON  CAKE. 

When  yeast  bread  is  ready  to  knead  from  the  sponge,  knead 
and  roll  out  three-fourths  of  an  inch  thick,  put  thin  slices  of 
butter  on  the  top.  sprinkle  with  rinnamou  and  then  with 
sugar,  let  rise  well  and  bake, 

13 


98 


Cakes. 


CITRON  CAKE. — Mrs,  Jno>  M..  Clark,  Meadville. 

\  cup  butter,  4  eggs,  leave  1  white  for  icing, 

2  cups  sugar,  1  cup  sweet  milk, 

3  cups  flour,  2  tea-spoons  baking  powder, 
1  quarter  of  citron  sliced  thin. 


CLOVE  SNAPS. 

2  cups  brown  sugar,  3  eggs, 

1  cup  butter,  1  tea-spoon  cloves. 

Cut  in  squares  and  bake. 


COCOANUT  CAKE. 

1  egg,  If  cups  flour, 

1  cup  sugar,  1  tea-spoon  cream  tartar, 

1  table-spoon  butter,  \  tea-spoon  soda, 

§  cup  sweet  milk. 

Cake  should  be  split  open,  frosted,  and  cocoanut  sprinkled 
on  the  frosting. 

COFFEE  CAKE. 

1  cup  brown  sugar,  1  cup  molasses, 

-J  cup  butter,  1  cup  strong  coffee, 

1  egg,  or  yolks  of  two,  4  even  cups  flour, 

1  heaping  tea-spoon  soda  in  1  table-spoon  cinnamon, 
the  flour,  1  tea-spoon  cloves, 

2  pounds  raisins,  ^  pound  citron. 

Soften  the  butter,  beat  with  the  sugar,  add  the  egg,  spices, 
molasses  and  coffee,  then  the  flour,  and  lastly,  the  fruit, 
dredged  with  a  little  flour.  Bake  one  hour  in  moderate  oven, 
or  make  in  two  small  loaves  which  will  bake  in  a  short  time. 


COFFEE  CAKE— No.  2. 

2  cups  brown  sugar,  1  cup  butter, 

1  cup  molasses,  1  cup  strong  coffee  as  prepared 

4  eggs,  for  the  table, 

1  tea-spoon  saleratus,  2  tea-spoons  cinnamon, 

2  tea-spoons  cloves,  1  tea-spoon  grated  nutmeg, 
1  pound  raisins,  1  pound  currants, 

4  cups  flour= 


Cakes. 


99 


COOKIES.— Mrs.  Lewis,  of  Ashtabula. 

2  cups  sugar,  1  cup  butter, 

2  eggs,  4  table-spoons  sour  milk  or 

1  tea-spoon  soda,  cream. 

If  3tou  like  you  can  put  in  caraway  seeds,  which  will  make 
them  still  nicer. 

COOKIES — No.  2.— Mrs.  Teel. 

1  cup  molasses,  \  cup  brown  sugar, 

cup  sour  milk,  1  cup  butter, 

1  tea-spoon  soda,  1  tea-spoon  ginger. 

COOKIES — No.  3. 

2  cups  sugar,  1  cup  butter, 

3  eggs,  3  tea-spoons  baking  powder, 
1  table-spoon  sweet  milk,  Nutmeg. 

CORN  STARCH  CAKE. 

1  cup  sugar,  -J  cup  butter, 

1^  cups  flour,  §  cup  sweet  milk, 

\  cup  corn  starch,  2  tea-spoons  baking  powder. 

CORN  STARCH  CAKE— No.  2.— Mrs.  W.  Price. 

2  cups  pulverized  sugar,  f  cup  butter, 

1  cup  corn  starch  dissolved  in    2  cups  flour, 

a  cup  of  sweet  milk,  Whites  of  7  eggs, 

2  tea-spoons  cream  tartar,         1  tea-spoon  soda. 

Mix  the  soda  and  flour  thoroughly,  cream  the  butter  and 
sugar,  add  starch  and  milk,  then  add  the  whites  and  flour 
gradually  until  all  is  used.    Flavor  with  lemon  or  rose. 

CRULLERS. — Mrs.  F.  F.  Adams. 

6  eggs,  12  table-spoons  sugar, 

6  table-spoons  butter,  I  nutmeg. 

CRULLERS— No.  2, 

3  eggs,  3  table-spoons  sugar, 
3  table-spoons  lard,  1  table-spoon  soda, 
Milk. 


100 


Cakes 


CUP  CAKE. 

3  cups  sugar,  1  cup  butter, 

6  cups  flour,  §  pint  sour  cream, 

7  eggs,  keep  2  whites  for  icing,  1  tea-spoon  soda  in  the  cream, 
1  tea-spoon  soda  in  the  flour,  1  tea-spoon  cream  tartar, 

1  tea-spoon  lemon  or  vanilla. 

Bake  in  pans  one  inch  deep,  and  when  done  spread  one  with 
icing  and  lay  the  other  on  top  of  it,  allowing  two  layers  for 
each  cake. 


CUSTARD  CAKE.— Mrs.  B.  F.  Sloan. 

1  cup  sugar,  1-J  cups  flour, 

3  tea- spoons  baking  powder,      2  eggs  in  cup  of  milk  or  cream. 
Thicken  with  flour;  flavor  with  lemon, 


DELICATE  CAKE. — Mrs.  Samuel  Bacon. 

Whites  of  6  eggs,  ^  cup  butter, 

|  cup  milk,  2  cups  sugar, 

3  cups  flour,  2  tea-spoons  baking  powder, 

A  little  salt. 


GOLD  CAKE. — Mrs.  Bacon. 

4  cups  flour,  2  cups  sugar, 

1  cup  butter,  1  cup  milk, 

4  tea-spoons  baking  powder,      Yolks  of  8  eggs, 


DELICATE  CAKE^-No. 

3-J  cups  flour, 
1  cup  butter, 
Whites  of  8  eggs, 


2.— Mrs.  Joseph  Mc  Carter. 

2  cups  sugar, 

1  cup  milk, 

2  tea-spoons  baking  powder. 


DELICATE  CAKE — No.  3.— Lottie  Landon. 

3  cups  flour,  2  cups  sugar, 

J  cup  sweet  milk,  Whites  of  six  eggs, 

|  cup  butter,  1  tea-spoon  cream  tartar, 
■J  tea-spoon  soda, 
Flavor  with  lemon. 


Cakes 


101 


FRUIT  CAKE. 

Pour  over  one  pound  fat  pork  chopped  fine  one  pint  boiling 
water,  two  cups  brown  sugar,  one  of  molasses,  one  table-spoon 
each  of  cloves  and  nutmeg,  and  two  of  cinnamon,  two  pounds 
raisins,  fourth  pound  citron,  half  glass  brandy,  tea-spoon  salt, 
three  of  baking  powder,  and  seven  cups  of  sifted  flour.  Bake 
slowly  two  and  a  half  hours. 

DIMPLES. 

Whites  of  four  eggs  beaten  to  a  stiff  froth,  one  pound  of 
fine  sugar  beaten  as  for  icing.  Drop  on  wet  writing  paper: 
sprinkle  crushed  almonds  in  centre  of  each ;  flavor  to  taste. 
Bake  in  oven, 

DOUGHNUTS. — Mrs.  F.  F.  Adams, 

1  quart  flour.  1  cup  sugar, 

1  egg,  Butter  size  of  a  walnut. 

3  teaspoons  baking  powder. 

Rub  the  butter  and  baking  powder  in  the  flour,  and  wet  it 
up  with  sweet  milk  as  soft  as  you  can  roll  it.    Very  nice, 

DOUGHNUTS— EXCELLEXT—Xo.  2.— Mrs.  Win.  Faulkner 

Boil  a  pint  of  new  milk,  and  melt  in  it  one-fourth  pound  of 
butter.  Beat  two  eggs  with  a  pound  of  sugar,  and  pour  on 
them  the  boiling  milk,  stirring  all  the  time;  when  it  is  nearly 
cold  stir  in  a  cup  of  yeast,  a  spoonful  of  salt,  and  flour  enough 
to  make  a  stiff  batter :  when  this  is  very  light,  add  one  grated 
nutmeg  and  flour  enough  to  make  a  soft  dough;  let  it  rise 
again  till  very  light,  roll  out  thin,  cut  in  shape,  and  fry  in  hot 
lard.    When  fried  dip  in  powdered  sugar  and  cinnamon. 

DOUGHNUTS— No.  3  — Mrs  W,  F.  Rindernecht. 

1  cup  sugar,  1  cup  sweet  milk. 

1  egg,  1  table-spoon  butt-er, 

1  tea-spoon  cream  tartar  in  the  flour. 

Mould  soft  as  possible  and  fry  in  hot  lard.  This  measure 
makes  enough  for  a  large  family. 


102 


Cakes. 


ELECTION  CAKE — OLD  HARTFORD. — Mrs.  Hanford. 

5  pounds  sifted  flour,  2  pounds  butter, 

2  pounds  sugar,  3  gills  distillery  yeast  or  six  of 

4  eggs,  home-brewed, 

1  gill  of  wine,  1  gill  of  brandy, 

1  quart  sweet  milk,  \  ounce  nutmeg, 

2  pounds  raisins,  1  pound  citron. 

Rub  the  butter  and  flour  together  very  fine,  add  half  the 
sugar,  then  the  yeast  and  half  the  milk  (hot  in  winter,  blood- 
warm  in  summer),  then  add  the  eggs,  then  remainder  of  the 
milk,  and  the  wine;  beat  well  and  let  rise  in  a  warm  place  all 
night;  in  the  morning  beat  a  long  time,  adding  brandy,  sugar, 
spice,  and  fruit  well  floured,  and  allow  to  rise  again  very  light, 
after  which  put  in  cake-pans  and  let  rise  ten  or  fifteen  min- 
utes ;  have  the  oven  about  as  hot  as  for  bread.  This  cake  will 
keep  any  length  of  time. 

ELECTION  CAKE— SALEM. 

4  pounds  flour,  1-J  pounds  sugar, 

\  pound  butter,  4  eggs, 

1  pint  yeast,  and  spice. 
One  hundred  years  old. 

FEATHER  CAKE. 

\  cup  butter,  3  cups  flour, 

2  cups  sugar,  1  cup  milk, 

3  eggs,  A  little  grated  lemon, 

2  tea-spoons  baking  powder. 

FEATHER  CAKE— No.  2— Mrs.  31.  B.  Lowry. 

\  cup  butter,  2  cups  sugar, 

3  eggs,  whites  and  yolks  beaten  1  cup  sweet  milk, 

separately,  3  cups  flour, 

3  small  tea-spoons  of  baking  powder.    Juice  of  one  lemon. 

This  makes  two  sheets. 

Nice  used  as  a  cottage  pudding  for  dessert. 

Sauce  for  this  Pudding. — One  cup  sugar,  half  cup  butter, 
one  egg.  Beat  these  well  together,  and  pour  on  a  large  coffee 
cup  of  boiling  milk.  If  you  use  lemon  in  the  cake,  use  one  in 
the  sauce;  it  should  be  made  just  at  the  time  you  want  to  send 
it  to  the  table,  so  that  it  may  be  foaming. 


Cakes. 


103 


FIG  CAKE. 

A  large  cup  butter,  two  and  a  half  of  sugar,  oue  of  sweet 
milk,  three  pints  flour  with  three  tea  spoons  baking  powder, 
whites  of  sixteen  eggs,  a  pound  and  a  quarter  of  figs  well 
floured  and  cut  in  strips" like  citron;  no  flavoring. 

FIG  CAKE— No.  2.— Mrs.  Fisk,  Ashtabula. 

Silver  Part. — Two  cups  sugar,  two-thirds  cup  butter,  not 
quite  two-thirds  cup  sweet  milk,  whites  of  eight  eggs,  three 
heaping  tea-spoons  baking  powder  thoroughly  sifted  with 
three  cups  flour;  stir  sugar  and  butter  to  a  cream,  add  milk 
and  flour,  and  last  white  of  eggs. 

Gold  Part. — One  cup  sugar,  three-fourths  cup  butter,  half 
cup  sweet  milk,  one  and  a  half  tea-spoons  baking  powder 
sifted  in  a  little  more  than  one  and  a  half  cups  flour,  yolks  of 
seven  eggs  thoroughly  beaten,  and  one  whole  egg,  one  tea- 
spoon allspice,  and  cinnamon  until  you  can  taste  it.  Bake  the 
white  in  two  long  pie-tins.  Put  half  the  gold  in  a  pie-tin,  and 
lay  on  one  pound  halved  figs  (previously  sifted  over  with 
flour),  so  that  they  will  just  touch  each  other,  put  on  the  rest 
of  the  gold  and  bake.  Put  the  cakes  together  with  frostiug 
while  warm,  the  gold  between  the  white  ones,  and  cover  with 
frosting. 

FIG  CAKE— No.  3. 

2  cups  sugar,  \  cup  butter, 

3  cups  flour,  1  cup  cold  water, 

Whites  of  6  eggs,  3  tea-spoons  baking  powder. 

Bake  in  layers. 
Filling. — 

1  cup  raisins,  1  cup  figs, 

f  cup  sugar,  .  White  of  one  egg. 

Beat  all  together  and  place  between  the  layers. 

FRENCH  CREAM  CAKE. — M iss  H.  Ball 

3  eggs,  1  tea- cup  granulated  sugar. 

\\  cups  flour,  2  table-spoons  cold  water, 

1  tea-spoon  baking  powder. 


104 


Cake  5. 


This  is  enough  for  two  cakes  baked  in  pie-pans,  to  be  split 
while  warm,  spreading  the  hot  custard  between  them,  or  for 
four  cakes  baked  in  jelly-pans,  with  the  hot  custard  spread 
between  them,  the  latter  being  the  preferable  plan.  For  cus- 
tard, boil  nearly  one  pint  sweet  milk,  mix  two  table-spoons 
corn  starch  with  a  half  tea-cup  sweet  milk,  add  two  well 
beaten  eggs;  when  milk  has  boiled  add  nearly  a  tea-cup  sugar 
and  stir  in  slowly  the  corn  starch  and  eggs;  add  a  half  tea- 
cup butter  stirred  until  dissolved,  flavor  with  one  tea-spoon 
vanilla,  and  spread  between  cakes  while  hot.  This  cake  can 
be  used  as  a  pudding  by  pouring  over  each  piece  a  spoonful 
of  the  custard  that  is  left. 

FRUIT  CAKE— No.  1.— Mrs.  John  Shirley.  Bradford.  Pa. 

1  pound  flour,  1-J  pounds  brown  sugar, 

1  pound  butter,  2  pounds  currants. 

2  pounds  raisins,  \  pound  figs, 

^  pound  dates,  \  pound  citron, 

10  eggs  beaten  separately.  1  table-spoon  cinnamon. 

1  tea-spoon  mace,  1  tea-spoon  cloves. 

1  nutmeg,  2  glasses  brandy. 

\  pound  almonds. 

FRUIT  CAKE — No.  2.— Mrs.  Joseph  31c Carter. 

3  pounds  raisins,  6  eggs, 

1  pound  currants,  \  pound  citron. 

\  pound  butter,  -J  pound  flour. 

-J  pound  brown  sugar,  1  tea-spoon  cinnamon. 

1  tea-spoon  cloves,  1  nutmeg, 

J  pint  wine.  \  pint  brand}-. 

\  tea-cup  molasses. 

Rub  butter  and  sugar  together,  then  yolks  and  part  of  flour, 
then  whites  with  rest  of  the  flour,  wine  and  brandy  last  :  bake 
four  hours. 

FRUIT  CAKE— No.  3. 

1  pound  flour,  1  pound  butter. 

1  pound  white  sugar,  12  egg-. 

1  large  glass  brandy.  1  glass  rose  water, 

1  pound  citron.  2  pounds  raisins. 

2  table-spoons  cloves  and  cin-  2  pounds  currants, 
namon.  2  nutmegs. 


Cakes. 


105 


FRUIT  CAKE  WITHOUT  EGGS. 

2  pounds  flour,  If  pounds  sugar, 

1  pint  milk,  -J  pound  butter, 

4  tea-spoonful  salt,  \  tea-spoon  soda  dissolved  in 

1  nutmeg,  a  little  hot  water, 

1  pound  raisins,  1  glass  brandy. 

This  makes  three  loaves.  Warm  the  milk,  add  to  it  the 
salt;  work  the  sugar  and  butter  to  a  cream,  add  the  milk,  then 
the  flour,  then  the  soda,  lastly  spice  and  fruit. 

FRUIT  TART. 

1-J  cups  sugar,  \  cup  butter, 

\  cup  molasses,  3  eggs, 

\  tea-spoon  soda,  1  cup  raisins, 

\  cup  currants,  2  cups  flour, 

Citron,  Spice. 

FRUIT  CAKE — TEMPERANCE, 

Most  ladies  think  fruit  cake  incomplete  without  wine  or 
brandy,  but  it  can  be  made  equally  good  on  strictly  temper- 
ance principles,  by  substituting  one-third  cup  of  molasses  for 
a  wine-glass  of  brandy.  To  facilitate  the  operation  of  seeding 
raisins,  pour  boiling  water  on  a  few  at  a  time.  This  will  not 
injure  the  fruit  or  cake.  To  seed,  clip  with  the  scissors  or  cut 
with  a  sharp  knife.  Do  not  chop  too  fine;  if  for  light  fruit 
cake,  seeding  is  all  that  is  necessary.  Slice  the  citron  thin, 
and  do  not  have  the  pieces  too  large,  or  they  will  cause  the 
cake  to  break  apart  in  cutting. 

GINGER  SNAPS — No.  l.—Mrs.  Kimble. 

^  pound  sugar,  \  pound  butter, 

\  pound  sifted  flour,  1  pint  molasses, 

2  table-spoons  ginger,  1  tea-spoon  cloves, 

1  tea-spoon  cinnamon,  1  tea-spoon  soda. 

GINGER  SNAPS — No.  2. 

2  cups  molasses,  1  cup  lard, 

1  table-spoon  soda,  1  table-spoon  ginger. 

Flour  to  roll  stiff. 

14 


106 


Cakes. 


SOFT  GINGER  SNAPS. 

\  cup  butter,  \  cup  lard, 

1  cup  sugar,  1  cup  molasses, 

1  table-spoon  soda,  1-J  table-spoons  ginger. 

Dissolve  the  soda  in  half  a  cup  of  water. 

ALUM  GINGERBREAD, — Mrs.  Baker 

One  pint  molasses,  tea-cup  melted  lard,  table-spoon  ginger, 
table-spoon  salt,  tea-cup  boiling  water;  in  half  the  water  dis- 
solve table-spoon  pulverized  alum,  and  in  the  other  half  a 
heaping  table-spoon  soda;  stir  in  just  flour  enough  to  knead, 
roll  about  half  inch  thick,  cut  in  oblong  cards,  and  bake  in  a 
tolerably  quick  oven. 

SOFT  GINGERBREAD. 

Three  pints  flour  with  one  cup  lard  well  mixed  through  it, 
one  tea-spoon  salt,  one  tea-spoon  ginger;  beat  two  eggs,  add 
one  pint  molasses,  one  cup  brown  sugar,  one  and  a  half  tea 
spoons  soda  dissolved  in  water,  stirred  in  half  a  pint  sour 
milk  or  buttermilk  thoroughly;  add  all  to  flour;  mix  well  and 
bake  in  good  oven,    Put  cake  in  sponge  cake  pans. 

SOFT  GINGERBREAD  WITHOUT  EGGS. 

Six  cups  flour,  three  cups  molasses,  one  or  two  cups  butter, 
one  table-spoon ful  ground  ginger,  and  three  tea-spoons  sal- 
eratus  dissolved  in  a  cup  of  milk.  Beat  it  well  and  bake  in  a 
quick  oven  in  square  tin  pans.  One  cup  of  butter  is  sufficient 
but  the  additional  cup  is  a  great  improvement. 

SPONGE  GINGERBREAD.—  Very  Old. 

1  cup  sour  milk,  1  cup  Orleans  molasses, 

•J  cup  butter,  2  eggs 

1  tea-spoon  soda,  1  table-spoon  ginger. 

Flour  to  make  as  thick  as  pound  cake. 

Put  the  butter,  molasses  and  ginger  together,  make  them 
quite  warm$  add  the  milk,  flour,  eggs  and  soda,  and  bake  as 
soon  as  possible, 


CdkcS. 


lo: 


GINGER  DROPS.— Mrs.  Joseph  McCarter. 

2  eggs,  1  cup  sugar, 

1  cup  molasses,  1  cup  butter  and  lard  mixed, 

1  cup  sour  milk,  1  small  table-spoon  soda, 

Flour  enough  to  drop  and  no  more, 

GINGER  DROP  CAKES, 

3  eggs,  1  cup  lard, 

1  cup  baking  molasses,  1  cup  brown  sugar., 

I  large  table-spoon  ginger,        1  table-spoon  soda  dissolved  in 

5  cups  unsifted  flour,  a  cup  of  boiling  water. 

Drop  table-spoons  of  this  mixture  into  a  slightly-greased 
dripping-pan,  about  three  inches  apart. 

GOLDEN  CREAM  CAKE. — Mim  Graves, 

Cream  one  cup  sugar  and  one-fourth  cup  butter,  add  half 
cup  sweet  milk,  the  well-beaten  whites  of  three  eggs,  one  and 
a  half  cups  flour  with  half  a  tea-spoon  soda  and  a  tea-spoon 
cream  tartar  sifted  with  it;  bake  in  three  deep  jelly-tins. 

GROOM'g  CAKE, 

10  eggs  beaten  separately,        1  pound  butter, 

1  pound  white  sugar,  1  pound  flour, 

2  pounds  almonds,  blanched    1  pound  seeded  raisins^ 
and  chopped  fine.  -J  pound  citron  shaved  fine. 
Beat  butter  to  a  cream,  add  sugar  gradually,  then  the  weli- 

beaten  yolks;  stir  all  till  very  light,  and  add  the  chopped 
almonds :  beat  the  whites  stiff  and  add  gently  with  the  flour ; 
cake  a  little  more  flour  and  sprinkle  over  the  raisins  and  citron, 
then  put  in  the  cake-pan,  first  a  layer  of  cake  batter,  then  a 
layer  of  raisins  and  citron,  then  cake,  and  so  on  till  ail  is  used, 
finishing  off  with  a  layer  of  cake.  Bake  in  a  moderate  oven 
two  hours. 

HARD  TIMES  CAKE, 

\  cup  butter,  2  cups  sugar, 

1  cup  sour  cream,  3  cups  flour. 

3  eggs,  -J-  tea-spoon  soda. 
Bake  in  layers  and  spread  with  jelly. 


m 


Cakes 


HARD-MONEY  CAKE, 

Gold  Part— 

Yolks  of  8  eggs,  Scant  cup  of  butter. 

2  cups  sugar,  4  cups  flour, 

1  cup  sour  milk,  1  tea-spoon  soda3 

1  table-spoon  corn  starch. 
Flavor  with  lemon  and  vanilla. 
Silver  Part, — 

2  cups  sugar,  I  cup  butter, 

4  cups  (scant)  flour.  1  cup  sour  milk. 

1  tea-spoon  soda,  1  table-spoon  corn  starch. 

Whites  of  8  eggs.. 

Flavor  with  almond  or  peach.    Put  in  pan.  alternately,  one 

spoonful  of  gold  and  one  of  silver 


HICKORY  NUT  JUMBLES. — Mrs.  Morris, 

\  pound  butter,  \  pound  sugar, 

\  pound  flour,      ■  2  eggs. 

1  cup  nuts. 

Drop  off  a  spoon. 

HICKORY  NUT  JUMBLES— No.  2.— Mary  Hartar. 

\  pound  butter.  pound  sugar. 

\  pound  flour,  2  eggs, 

1  cup  nut  kernels. 
Drop  off  a  spoon, 

IMPERIAL  CAKE. — Mrs.  W.  Bennett. 

One  pound  butter  and  one  of  sugar  beaten  to  a  cream,  one 
pound  flour,  the  grated  rind  and  juice  of  a  lemon,  nine  eggs, 
one  and  a  quarter  pounds  almonds  before  they  are  cracked,, 
half  pound  citron,  half  pound  raisins:  beat  the  yoUks  light- 
add  sugar  and  butter,  then  the  whites  beaten  to  a  stiff  froth, 
and  the  flour,  reserving  a  part  for  the  fruit,  and,  lastly,  the 
nuts  blanched,  cut  fine  and  mixed  with  fruit  and  the  rest  of 
the  flour.    This  is  very  delicious,  and  will  keep  for  months. 


Cakes., 


109 


IMPERIUM  CAKE.— Mrs.  Kepler 

1  pound  butter,  1  pound  granulated  sugar, 

1  pound  butter,  creamed,  10  eggs  beaten  separately 

1  wineglass  brandy  or  whiskey,  2  pounds  raisins  seeded, 

1  pound  citron,  1  tea-spoon  baking  powder. 

IMPERIAL  CAKE.— Mrs.  M.  B.  Loicry, 

1  pound  butter,  creamed,  1  pound  sugar, 

1  pound  flour,  3  pounds  whole  blanched  al- 

2  pounds  seeded  raisins,  monds, 
1  pound  citron,  12  eggs, 
1  glass  brandy, 

A  little  cloves,  mustard  and  cinnamon. 

ICE  CREAM  CAKE. — Mrs.  Lambing,  Boston, 

Make  good  sponge-cake,  bake  half  an  inch  thick  in  jelly- 
pans,  and  let  them  get  perfectly  cold;  take  a  pint  thickest 
sweet  cream,  beat  until  it  looks  like  ice  cream,  make  very- 
sweet,  and  flavor  with  vanilla;  blanch  and  chop  a  pound  of 
almonds,  stir  into  cream  and  put  very  thick  between  layers. 
This  is  the  queen  of  all  cakes. 

JUMBLES. — Hattie  Webb, 

1  cup  butter,  2  cups  sugar, 

1  cup  sour  milk,  5  eggs, 

3  tea-spoons  baking  powder,  \  tea-spoon  saleratus, 
Not  quite  a  quart  of  flour, 

Dissolve  the  saleratus  in  milk;  mix  baking  powder  in  flour. 

LADY  CAKE, — Mrs,  Teel 

2  cups  sugar,  1  cup  butter, 

3J  cups  flour,  1  cup  sweet  milk, 

Whites  of  6  eggs,  3  tea-spoons  baking  powder, 

LADY  CAKE  (LOAF),— Mrs.  Teel 

1  pound  flour,  1  pound  sugar, 

1  ounce  butter,  Whites  of  17  eggs, 

3  tea-spoons  baking  powder,      2  table-spoons  milk, 

1  tea-spoon  bitter  almond,       '  2  table-spoons  alcohol, 
1  tea-spoon  rose  water. 


-110 


Cakes. 


LADY'S  FINGERS,  —Mrs.  Marsh,  Toledo. 

One  and  one-eighth  pounds  of  flour,  one  of  powdered  sugar, 
ten  eggs;  beat  eggs  and  sugar  as  light  as  for  sponge-cake; 
sift  in  with  flour  one  tea-spoon  baking  powder  and  stir  slowly, 
Make  a  funnel-shaped  bag  of  heavy  ticking  or  strong  brown 
paper;  through  the  hole  in  the  small  end  push  a  funnel-shaped 
tin  tube,  one-third  inch  in  diameter  at  small  end  and  provided 
with  a  flange  at  the  other  to  prevent  it  slipping  through;  tie 
the  small  end  of  bag  firmly  around  the  tube,  and  you  have  a 
funnel-shaped  sack  with  a  firm  nozzle  projecting  slightly  from 
the  small  end.  Into  this  bag  pour  the  batter,  over  which 
gather  up  the  bag  tightly  so  that  none  will  run  out,  press  and 
run  the  dough  out  quickly  through  the  tube  into  a  pan  lined 
with  brown  paper  (not  buttered),  making  each  about  a  finger 
long,  and  about  as  thick  as  a  lead  pencil,  being  careful  not  to 
get  them  too  wide.  Sprinkle  with  granulated  sugar,  bake  in 
a  quick  oven,  and,  when  cool,  wet  the  under  side  of  the  paper 
with  a  brush,  remove  and  stick  the  fingers  together  back  to 
back.  The  bag,  when  made  of  ticking,  will  be  useful  in  mak- 
ing macaroons  and  other  small  cakes. 

LEMON  CAKE.— JiVs.  M.  McFarland. 

1  cup  butter,  3  cups  sugar  rubbed  to  eream; 

1  cup  sweet  milk5  4  cups  flour: 

5  eggs  well  beaten  separately,    2  tea-spoons  baking  powder. 
1  tea-spoon  lemon  extract  or  juice  of  one  lemon.  . 

LOAF  CAKE,— Ji>s,  Stration- 

Two  cups  sugar  and  one  of  butter  beaten  to  a  cream,  three 
eggs,  the  whites  beaten  separately,  three  cups  flour  with  one 
tea  spoon  cream  tartar  stirred  in,  yolks  of  the  eggs  stirred  well 
with  the  sugar  and  butter:  now  add  three  cups  more  flour  with 
one  tea-spoon  cream  tartar,  one  cup  sweet  milk  and  the  whites 
of  the  eggs,  and  then  stir  again;  add  one  nutmeg,  one  pound 
raisins  or  currants  dredged  with  flour,  one  tea- spoon  soda  dis- 
solved in  four  table-spoons  of  water.  This  makes  two  nice 
loaves,  and  is  excellent. 


Cakes 


111 


MARBLE  CAKE, — Mrs.  D.  Gillett. 


White  Part- 
ly cups  white  sugar. 
\  cup  milk, 

2  tea-spoons  baking  powder, 
Flavor  to  taste. 

Dark  Part.— 
Yolks  of  4  e^2f£, 
■J-  cup  butter, 
2|  cups  flour, 
1  tea-spoon  cinnamon. 
|-  tea-spoon  black  pepper, 


-|  cup  butter, 
2|  cups  flour, 
Whites  of  4  eggs 
stiff  froth. 


beaten  to  a: 


1-J  cups  brown  sugar, 
4-  cup  milk, 

2  tea-spoons  baking  powder, 
1  tea-spoon  allspice. 
J  a  nutmeg, 


Stir  butter  and  sugar,  add  the  milk,  then  the  eggs,  -and 
lastly  the  flour,  in  which  the  spices  and  baking  powder  have 
been  well  mixed;  bake  one  hour/  Of  course  the  white  and 
dark  parts  are  alternated,  either-  by  putting  in  a  spoonful  of 
white,  then  of  dark,  or  a  layer  of  white  and  a  layer  of  dark, 
being  careful  that  the  cake  may  be  nicely  "marbleizecL" 

MARBLE  CAKE— No,  % 


White  Part.— 
Whites  of  7  eggs, 
1  cup  butter, 

4  heaping  cups  sifted  flour, 
Flavor  to  taste, 
Dark  Part.-— 
Yolks  of  7  eggs, 
1  cup  butter, 

4  heaping  cups  sifted  flour, 
1  table-spoon  allspice, 
1  tea-spoon  soda. 

Put  in  pans  a  spoonful  of  white  part  and  then  a  spoonful  of 
dark,  and  so  on.    Bake  an  hour  and  a  quarter, 


3  cups  white  sugar, 
1  cup  sour  milk, 
1  tea-spoon  soda, 


3  cups  brown  sugar, 
1  cup  sour  milk, 
1  table-spoon  cinnamon . 
1  table-spoon  cloves, 


MARBLE  CAKE—DELICIOUS. 

One  cup  butter  rubbed  to  a  cream,  three  cups  white  sugar 
rubbed  into  butter,  four  cups  flour,  three  tea-spoons  baking 
powder  in  flour,  whites  of  eight  eggs  beaten  light,  one  cup 
sweet  milk.  This  makes  a  delicious  cake  to  use  for  any  pur- 
pose, either  layer  cake  or  solid, 


112 


Cakes, 


Dark  Part, — One  cup  butter  and  2  cups  brown  sugar 
rubbed  together,  one  cup  sour  milk,  one  tea-spoon  soda  in 
milk,  three  eggs,,  or  the  yolks  left  from  the  white  part,  one 
table-spoon  cinnamon,  one  tea-spoon  cloves,  half  tea-spoon 
allspice,  one  nutmeg,  a  little  brandy. 

MARBLED  CHOCOLATE  CAKE. 

Make  a  batter  as  for  white  cake,  take  out  one  tea-cup,  add 
to  it  five  table-spoons  grated  chocolate,  moisten  with  milk,  and 
flavor  with  vanilla  ;  pour  a  layer  of  the  white  batter  into  the 
baking-pan.  then  drop  the  chocolate  batter  with  a  spoon  in 
spots,  and  spread  the  remainder  of  the  white  batter  over  it. 

MODELINES. 

j'cup  butter.  2  cups  sugar, 

1  cup  sweet  milk,  5  eggs  beaten  separately. 

3  tea-spoons  baking  powder,  2  cups  flour, 

\  tea-spoon  rose  water.  \  tea-spoon  bitter  almond. 

\  cup  corn  starch.  Vanilla  in  the  icing. 

MOUNTAIN  CAKE. 

1  cup  butter.  3  cups  sugar. 
3^  cups  flour.  6  eggs, 

2  tea  spoons  baking  powder,      1  cup  sweet  milk. 

NUT  CAKE— No.  L 

2  cups  sugar,  I  1  cup  butter, 
1  cup  milk,  5  eggs, 

1  cup  raisins,  1  cup  nuts. 

3  tea-spoons  baking  powder,     4  cups  flour, 

NUT  CAKE— No.  2. 

2  cups  sugar,  ^  cup  butter, 

4  eggs,  3  cups  flour, 

2  tea-spoons  baking  powder    1  cup  sweet  milk. 

mixed  with  the  flour,  2  cups  hickory  nuts  cut  fine- 

Flavor  with  vanilla. 

Beat  butter  and  sugar  together,  then  add  eggs  well  beaten, 
then  the  milk  and  flour:  beat  well.    Add  meats  last. 


Cakes, 


IIS 


ORANGE  CAKE. 


f  cup  butter5 
1  cup  milk, 
Yolks  of  5  eggs, 

Bake  in  jelly-tins. 
Whites  of  three  eggs  beaten 

to  a  stiff  froth, 
Sugar  to  consistency. 

Put  this  between  the  layers 


2  small  cups  sugar, 

3  tea-spoons  baking  powder, 
3  small  cups  flour. 

Juice  and  grated  peel  of  one 
orange, 

with  white  frosting  on  top, 


ORANGE  CAKE— No,  2. 

2  cups  sugar,  -J-  cup  butter, 

3  cups  flour,  -J-  cup  cold  water, 

Yolks  of  5  eggs,  Whites  of  4  eggs  well  beaten, 

A  pinch  of  salt,  3  tea-spoons  baking  powder, 

Juice  and  grated  rind  of  1  orange. 


ICING  FOR  ORANGE  CAKE. 

Make  a  stiff  icing  and  stir  into  it  one  grated  orange. 
Lemon  cake  is  made  just  the  same. 

PEACH  CAKE.+-Mis8  Webster,  Danville. 

Bake  three  sheets  of  sponge-cake  as  for  jelly-cake;  cut 
peaches  in  thin  slices;  prepare  cream  by  whipping,  sweet- 
ening, and  adding  flavor  of  vanilla  if  desired;  put  layers  of 
peaches  between  the  sheets  of  cake,  pour  cream  over  each 
layer  and  over  the  top.  This  may  also  be  made  with  ripe 
strawberries. 

POUND  CAKE. — Miss  E.  HuhbelL 


1  pound  butter, 
1  pound  flour, 
cup  milk, 

tea-spoons  baking  powder, 

15 


1  pound  sugar  rubbed  to  cream , 

12  eggs; 

•J  cup  brandjr, 

1  nutmeg. 


114 


Cakes, 


POTOTD  CAKE — DELICIOUS. — Mrs.  Edwin  Wilson 

1  pound  flour,  1  pound  sugar, 

|  pound  butter,  10  eggs, 

1  nutmeg. 

Rub  butter  to  a  cream,  then  add  sugar  well  sifted;  rub  that 
to  a  cream;  whip  }Tolks  of  eggs  and  stir  in  next;  then  whip 
whites  of  eggs  and  stir,  then  flour  and  nutmeg.  Let  bake  one 
hour,  or  until  the  cake  does  not  stick  to  the  pan,  nor  stick  to 
a  straw. 

RAISIN  CAKE. 

3  cups  sugar,  1  cup  butter, 

1  quart  flour,  3  tea-spoons  baking  powder, 

1  cup  sweet  milk,  1^-  pounds  raisins, 

1  table-spoon  cinnamon,  -J  table-spoon  cloves, 

Brandy,  Mace. 

RICE  CAKE, 

1  pound  sugar,  1  pound  ground  rice, 

\  pound  butter,  9  eggs, 

Rose  water  to  taste. 

Add  a  little  salt,  beat  butter  and  sugar  together,  add  rose 
water,  salt  and  eggs,  lastly  the  rice;  bake  in  shallow  pans. 

RICHARD  CAKE. — Mrs.  W.  B. 

2-J  cups  sugar,  1  cup  butter, 

£  cup  milk,  4  eggs, 

3  cups  flour,  3  tea-spoons  baking  powder. 

SNOW  CAKE. — Mrs.  E.  T. 
Beat  one  cup  butter  to  a  cream,  add  one  and  a  half  cups 
flour  and  stir  very  thoroughly  together;  then  add  one  cup  corn 
starch,  and  one  cup  milk  in  which  three  tea-spoons  baking 
powder  have  been  dissolved;  last,  add  whites  of  eight  eggs 
and  two  cups  sugar  beaten  together:  flavor  to  taste,  bake  in 
sheets,  and  put  together  with  icing. 

SODA  POUND  CAKE. 

'2  cups  sugar,  1  cup  butter. 

1  cup  sweet  milk.  4  cups  flour. 

5  eggs,  3  tea-spoons  baking  powder. 


Cakes. 


115 


SPICE  CAKE — -No.  I.— Mrs.  Moore. 

2  cups  brown  sugar,  1  cup  sour  milk, 

1  cup  butter,  4  eggs, 

2£  cups  flour,  1  tea-spoon  soda, 

1  tea-spoon  of  all  kinds  of  spice  you  can  find  in  town, 

SPICE  CAKE— No.  2— Mrs.  G.  D.  Tinkcom. 

2  cups  sugar,  white  or  brown,    1  cup  sour  milk> 
1  cup  butter,  4  eggs, 

2-J  cups  flour,  1  tea-spoon  soda, 

1  tea-spoon  of  all  kinds  of  spice. 

SPICE  CAKE— No.  3— VERY  FINE. 

1  cup  molasses,  1  cup  sugar, 

§  cup  butter,  1  cup  sour  milk, 

3  eggs,  1  tea-spoon  soda, 

1  tea-spoon  nutmeg,  1-J  tea-spoons  cinnamon, 

1  tea-spoon  cloves,  3  cups  flour. 

SPONGE  CAKE— No.  1, 

The  good,  quality  of  all  delicate  cake,  and  especially  of 
sponge-cake,  depends  very  much  upon  its  being  made  with 
fresh  eggs.  It  must  be  quickly  put  together,  beaten  with 
rapidity,  and  baked  in  a  rather  quick  oven.  It  is  made 
"sticky"  and  less  light  by  being  stirred  long.  There  is  no 
other  cake  so  dependent  upon  care  and  good  judgment  in 
baking  as  sponge-cake.  In  making  white  cake,  if  not  conve- 
nient to  use  the  yolks  that  are  left,  they  will  keep  until  the 
next  day  by  being  thoroughly  beaten  and  set  in  a  cool  placa 
To  prepare  cocoanut,  cut  a  hole  through  the  meat  at  one  of 
the  holes  in  the  end,  draw  off  the  milk,  pound  the  nut  well  on 
all  sides  to  loosen  the  meat,  crack,  take  out  meat,  and  set  the 
pieces  in  the  heater  or  in  a  cool,  open  oven  all  night,  or  for  a 
few  hours,  to  dry,  then  grate;  if  not  all  used,  sprinkle  with 
sugar  (after  grating)  and  spread  out  in  a  cool,  dry  place,  and 
it  will  keep  for  weeks.  In  cutting  layer  cakes,  it  is  better  first 
to  make  a  round  hole  in  the  centre,  with  a  knife,  or  a  tin  tube, 
about  an  inch  and  a  quarter  in  diameter.  This  prevents  the 
edge  of  the  cake  from  crumbling  in  cutting. 


116 


Cakes, 


SPONGE  CAKE— No.  2. 

4  eggs,  2  coffee-cups  sugar, 

2  coffee-cups  flour,  2  tea-spoons  baking  powder, 

1  tea-cup  boiling  water, 

Add  the  water  last.  This,  though  thin,  will  come  from  the 
oven  a  most  delicious  cake. 

SPONGE  CAKE— No.  S.^Mrs.  Clark. 

6  eggs,  1-J  cups  sugar, 

1-J  cups  flour,  Flavor, 

SPONGE  CAKE— No.  4^Mrs.  F,  F.  Adams. 

12  eggs,  1  pound  sugar. 

12  ounces  flour,  Flavor. 
Beat  the  whites  and  yolks  separately. 

SPONGE  CAKE  No.  5— VERY  NICE. — Mrs.  Teel 

1  pound  sugar,  11  ounces  flour, 

10  eggs  beaten  separately  and    Juice  of  one  lemon, 
put  together,  A  little  baking  powder. 

BOILED  ICING. 

Three  cups  sugar,  water  sufficient  to  dissolve  sugar,  boil 
until  almost  as  thick  as  for  candy;  stir  this  on  the  beaten 
whites  of  three  eggs,  beating  briskly  while  pouring  on ;  flavor 
with  vanilla.    Boil  three  hours. 

SPONGE  CAKE — No,  6— Mrs.  Bowyers,  California. 

2  cups  sugar,  2  cups  flour, 

8  eggs,  2  table-spoons  water, 

4  table-spoons  baking  powder,   Lemon  or  vanilla  to  taste. 
Use  big  cups.   Beat  twenty  minutes  and  put  all  in  together. 

SPONGE  CAKE— No.  7. 

Six  eggs,  two  tea-cups  pulverized  sugar ;  beat  yolks  and 
sugar  to  a  cream,  add  one  and  a  half  cups  of  flour  with  two 
small  tea-spoons  baking  powder  in  it;  then  add  the  whites 
beaten  to  stiff  froth,  and  stir  all  slowly  till  top  is  covered  with 
bubbles.    Bake  in  moderately  quick  oven. 


Cakes, 


117 


SPONGE  CAKE— No.  8.— Mrs.  Hall 

10  eggs,  2|  cups  sugar, 

2-J  cups  flour, 
Whites  mixed  in  before  the  flour. 

SPONGE  CAKE— No.  9— Mrs.  Dr.  Evans, 

12  eggs,  1  pint  pulverized  sugar. 

1  pint  flour,  measured  before    1  heaping  tea-spoon  baking 

sifting,  powder, 
1  smaii  tea-spoon  salt,  Essence  of  lemon  for  flavor. 

Beat  the  whites  to  a  very  stiff  froth,  and  add  sugar;  beat  the 
yolks,  strain  and  add  them  to  the  whites  and  sugar,  and  beat 
the  whole  thoroughly;  mix  baking  powder  and  salt  in  the 
flour  and  add  last,  stirring- in  small  quantities  at  a  time;  bake 
one  hour  in  a  six-quart  pan  in  a  moderate  oven.  This  makes 
one  very  large  cake.  By  weight  use  one  pound  pulverized 
sugar  and  three-fourths  pound  flour, 

SPONGE  MUFFINS— Mrs  Morris,  Danville., 

1  cup  sugar,  %  cup  butter, 

1  cup  sour  milk,  I  large  cups  flour, 

4  eggs  well  beaten,  1  tea-spoon  soda  in  milk. 

Or  take  sweet  milk  and  baking  powder. 

Bake  three  quarters  of  an  hour.    Eat  with  wine  sauce. 

SUGAR  DROPS, 

6  eggs,  \\  pounds  brown  sugar, 

1  tea-spoon  soda,  1  table-spoon  cloves, 

1  table-spoon  cinnamon, 

Mix  all  together  very  stiff,  like  crackers;  cut  and  mix  three 
times,  and  then  cut  in  little  pieces,  roll  in  hand  like  hickory 
nuts  and  bake. 

fMFLES, 

1  quart  flour,  1  cup  sugar, 

2  table-spoons  melted  butter,     A  little  salt, 
2  tea-spoons  baking  powder,     1  egg, 
Sweet  milk  sufficient  to  make  rather  stiff. 

Roll  out  in  thin  sheets,  cut  in  pieces  about  two  by  four 


118 


Cakes. 


inches;  make  as  many  cuts  across  the  short  way  as  possible, 
inserting  the  knife  near  one  edge  and  ending  the  cut  just 
before  reaching  the  other.  Pass  two  kniting  needles  under 
every  other  strip,  spread  the  needles  as  far  apart  as  possible, 
and  with  them  hold  the  trifles  in  the  fat  until  a  light  brown. 
Only  one  can  be  fried  at  a  time, 

WASHINGTON  CAKE — No.  1.— Jim  E.  Hubbell. 


4  cups  sugar, 
2  cups  butter, 

1  cup  sweet  milk, 

2  pounds  raisins 
Spice  to  taste. 


8  cups  flour. 
6  eggs, 

■J  cup  brandy, 

1  small  table-spoon  of  baking 
powder. 


WASHINGTON  CAKE — No.  2.— Mrs,  Ted. 


1-J  pounds  sugar, 
If  pounds  flour, 
4  eggs, 

1  pint  best  sour  cream, 

2  tea-spoons  baking  powder. 


|  pound  butter. 

3  pounds  stoned  raisins. 

1  wine-glass  wine, 

1  nutmeg, 


WASHINGTON  CAKE 

3  cups  brown  sugar, 

4  eggs, 

5  cups  flour, 

1  tea-spoon  cinnamon, 
1  glass  brandy, 
J  pound  citron. 


■No.  3.— Mrs.  F.  F.  Adams. 

1J  cups  butter, 
1  cup  sour  cream 

1  tea-spoon  soda, 

2  nutmegs, 

2  pounds  raisins, 


WASHINGTON  CAKE— No.  4. 

1  pound  brown  sugar,  pound  butter, 

1  pound  flour,  3  pounds  raisins. 

2  eggs,  1  cup  sour  cream, 

1  citron,  2  wine-glasses  brandy  or  whis- 

1  tea-spoon  soda,  key. 
1  tea-spoon  mixed  spices,  cin~   1  nutmeg, 
namon  and  cloves. 

Put  in  pan  and  steam  three  hours,  then  place  in  oven  an 
hour  to  dry. 


Cakes. 


119 


WHITE  POUND  CAKE.~Ji>s.  L.  English,  Danville. 

1  pound  sugar,  1  pound  flour, 

■J  pound  butter,  Whites  of  16  eggs, 

1  tea-spoon  baking  powder  sifted  thoroughly  with  the  flour. 
Put  in  cool  oven  with  gradual  increase  of  heat. 

For  boiled  icing  for  the  cake,  take  three  cups  sugar  boiled 
in  one  of  water  until  clear;  beat  whites  of  three  eggs  to  very 
stiff  froth  and  pour  over  them  the  boiling  liquid,  beating  all 
the  time  for  ten  minutes;  frost  while  both  cake  and  icing  are 
warm. 

WHITE  CAKE. 

3  cups  flour,  2  cups  sugar, 

2f  cups  butter,  2f  cups  sweet  milk, 

Whites  of  6  eggs,  2  tea-spoons  baking  powder. 

WHITE  CAKE — No,  2.— J4>a.  F.  F.  Adams, 

Whites  of  6  eggs,  £  cup  butter, 

2  cups  sugar,  §  cup  sweet  milk, 
1-J-  tea-spoons  baking  powder,    2-J-  cups  flour. 
Flavor. 

WHITE  TUMBLER  CAKE. 

tumblers  of  sugar,  1  tumbler  flour, 

Whites  of  10  eggs,  1  tea-spoon  baking  powder, 

A  little  salt 

WHITE  SPONGE  CAKE. 

1  cup  flour,  1  cup  sugar, 

3  tea-spoons  baking  powder,     Whites  of  5  eggs. 
Lemon. 

WHIPPED  CREAM  CAKE. — Mrs.  Marshall 

One  cup  sugar,  two  eggs,  two  table-spoons  softened  butter 
and  four  of  milk;  beat  all  well  together,  add  a  cup  of  flour  in 
which  have  been  mixed  a  tea-spoon  cream  tartar  and  half  tea- 
spoon soda.  Bake  in  rather  small,  square  dripping-pan, 
When  cake  is  cool  have  ready  a  half  pint  sweet  cream 
whipped  to  a  stiff  froth,  sweeten  and  flavor  to  taste,  spread 
over  cake  and  serve  while  warm.  The  cream  will  froth  easier 
to  be  made  cold  by  setting  on  ice  before  whipping. 


120 


Pastry. 


PASTRY. 


Butter  or  lard  for  pastry  should  be  sweet,  fresh  and  solid. 
When  freshly-made  butter  cannot  be  had,  work  well  two  or 
three  times  in  cool,  fresh  water. 

A  very  nice  paste  for  family  use  may  be  made  by  reducing 
the  quantity  of  shortening  to  even  so  little  as  a  half  pound  to 
a  quart  of  flour,  especially  when  children  and  dyspeptics  are 
to  be  considered.  With  the  exception  of  mince  pies,  which  are 
warmed  over  before  serving,  pastry  should  be  eaten  the  day  it 
is  made.  In  warm  weather,  when  not  ready  to  bake  imme- 
diately after  making  up  paste,  keep  it  in  the  ice-chest  till 
wanted,  several  days  if  necessary,  and,  in  any  event,  it  is 
better  to  let  it  thus  remain  for  one  or  two  hours, 

AUNTY  PHELPS'  PIE  CRUST. 

To  one  pint  sifted  flour  add  one  even  tea-spoon  baking 
powder,  and  sweet  cream  enough  to  wet  the  flour,  leaving  crust 
a  little  stiff.    This  is  enough  for  two  pies. 

GOOD  COMMON  PASTE. 

One  coffee  cup  lard,  three  of  sifted  flour,  and  a  little  salt. 
In  winter  soften  the  lard  a  little  (but  not  in  summer),  cut  it 
well  into  the  flour  with  a  knife,  then  mix  with  cold  water 
quickly  into  a  moderately  stiff  dough,  handling  as  little  as 
possible.  This  makes  four  common-sized  covered  pies.  Take 
a  new  slice  of  paste  each  time  for  top  crust  using  the  trim- 
mings, etc.,  for  under  crust. 


Pastry. 


121 


GRAHAM  PASTE. 


Mix  lightly  half  a  pound  Graham  flour,  half  a  pint  sweet 
cream,  half  a  tea-spoon  salt,  roll,  and  bake  like  other  pastry. 


One  heaping  pound  superfine  sifted  flour,  and  one  of  butter; 
place  the  flour  on  board  (or  marble  slab  is  better),  make  a  well 
in  centre,  squeeze  in  juice  of  half  a  lemon,  and  add  yolk  of  one 
egg  beaten  with  a  little  ice  water;  stir  with  one  hand  and  drop 
in  ice  water  with  the  other,  until  the  paste  is  as  hard  as  the 
butter;  roll  paste  out  in  a  smooth  square  an  inch  thick,  smooth 
sides  with  a  rolling-pin,  spread  the  butter  over  half  the  paste; 
lay  the  other  half  over  like  an  old-fashioned  turn-over,  leave  it 
for  fifteen  minutes  in  a  cold  place,  then  roll  out  in  a  long 
strip,  keeping  the  edges  smooth,  and  double  it  in  three  parts, 
as  follows:  Fold  one  third  over,  on  the  middle  third,  roll  it 
down,  then  fold  over  the  other  outside  third,  roll  out  in  a  long 
strip  and  repeat  the  folding  process ;  let  it  lie  for  fifteen  min- 
utes, and  repeat  this  six  times,  allowing  fifteen  minutes 
between  each  two  rollings,  and  the  paste  is  ready  for  use. 
Handle  as  little  as  possible  through  the  whole  process.  All 
the  flour  used  must  be  of  the  best  quality,  and  thoroughly 
sifted.  The  quantity  of  water  depends  upon  the  capacity  of 
the  flour  to  absorb  it,  which  is  quite  variable.  Too  little 
makes  the  paste  tough,  and  too  much  makes  it  thin,  and  pre- 
vents the  flakiness  so  desirable.  Rich  paste  requires  a  quick 
oven. 


Take  thin,  sweet  cream  and  prepare  a  dough  as  for  crackers, 
roll  out  and  make  your  pie  as  with  a  crust  of  grease  and  fine 
flour,  and  you  will  have  an  article  that  is  much  more  eatable 
and  healthful, 


PUFF  PASTE. 


GRAHAM  PIE  CRUST, 


PIE  CftUST, 


1  cup  lard, 
1  cup  water, 


l|cup  butter, 
4  cups-flour. 


16 


122 


Pastry. 


ALMOM)  TARTS. 

Beat  to  a  cream  the  yolks  of  three  eggs  and  a  quarter  of  a 
pound  of  sugar,  add  half  a  pound  of  shelled  almonds  pounded 
slightly,  put  in  tart-tins  lined  with  puff-paste,  bake  eight  min- 
utes; take  the  whites  mixed  with  three  table-spoons  powdered 
sugar,  spread  on  top  of  tarts,  return  to  oven  and  brown  deli- 
cately. 

APPLE  CUSTARD  PIE, 

Peel  sour  apples  and  stew  until  soft  and  not  much  water  is 
left  in  them,  and  rub  through  a  colander.  Beat  three  eggs  for 
each  pie.  Put  in  at  the  rate  of  one  cup  butter  and  one  of 
sugar  for  three  pies.    Season  with  nutmeg. 

DRIED  APPLE  PIE. 

Put  apples  in  warm  water  and  soak  over  night;  in  the 
morning  chop  up,  stew  a  few  moments  in  a  small  amount  of 
water,  add  a  sliced  lemon,  and  sugar  to  taste;  cook  half  an 
hour,  make  into  pies,  and  bake. 

SLICED  APPLE  PIE. 

Line  pie-pan  with  crust,  sprinkle  with  sugar,  fill  with  tart 
apples  sliced  very  thin,  sprinkle  sugar  and  a  very  little  cinna- 
mon over  them,  and  add  a  few  small  bits  of  butter  and  a  table 
spoon  water;  dredge  in  flour,  cover  with  the  top  crust,  and. 
bake  half  to  three-quarters  of  an  hour:  allow  four  or  five 
table-spoons  sugar  to  one  pie.  Or,  line  pans  with  crust,  fill 
with  sliced  apples,  put  on  top  crust  and  bake:  take  off  top 
crust,  put  in  sugar,  bits  of  butter,  and  seasoning,  replace  crust 
and  serve  warm.    It  is  delicious  with  sweetened  cream. 

BANANA  PIE. 

Slice  raw  bananas,  add  butter,  sugar,  allspice  and  vinegar, 
or  boiled  cider,  or  diluted  jelly;  bake  with  two  crusts.  Cold 
boiled  sweet  potatoes  may  be  used  instead  of  bananas,  and  are 
very  nice. 


Pastry. 


123 


COCOANUT  PIE. 

1  cocoanut,  grated,  1  quart  milk, 

4  eggs,  1  cup  white  sugar. 

Mix  sugar  and  eggs  together,  then  milk,  then  the  grated 
cocoanut;  bake. 

COCOANUT  TARTS. 

Dissolve  half  pound  sugar  in  quarter  of  a  pint  water,  add 
half  a  grated  cocoanut,  let  this  boil  slowly  for  a  few  minutes, 
and  when  cold,  add  the  well-beaten  yolks  of  three  eggs,  and 
the  white  of  one;  beat  all  well  together,  and  pour  into  patty- 
pans lined  with  a  rich  crust;  bake  a  few  minutes,  cover  with 
the  whites  of  the  two  eggs  mixed  with  two  table-spoons  sugar, 
and  put  in  oven  till  a  delicate  brown. 

CREAM  TARTS. 

Mix  a  pound  flour,  a  salt-spoon  salt,  a  quarter  pound  each 
sugar  and  butter,  one  egg,  and  half  tea-spoon  soda  or  baking 
powder  dissolved  in  a  spoonful  of  water;  wet  up  with  cold 
water,  and  line  small  patty-pans;  bake  in  a  quick  oven,  fill 
with  mock  cream,  sprinkle  over  with  sugar,  and  brown  in  oven. 
Or,  fill  shells  with  jelly  and  cover  with  a  meringue  (table- 
spoon sugar  to  white  of  one  egg),  and  brown  in  oven, 

RIPE  CURRANT  PIE. 

One  cup  mashed  ripe  currants,  one  of  sugar,  two  table- 
spoons water,  one  of  flour  beaten  with  the  yolks  of  two  eggs; 
bake,  frost  the  top  with  the  beaten  whites  of  the  eggs  and  two 
table-spoons  powdered  sugar,  and  brown  in  oven, 

GREEN  CURRANT  PIE. 

Line  an  inch  pie-dish  with  good  pie  crust,  sprinkle  over  the 
bottom  two  heaping  table-spoons  sugar  and  two  of  flour  (or  one 
of  corn  starch)  mixed;  then  pour  in  one  pint  green  currants 
washed  clean,  and  two  table-spoons  currant  jelly;  sprinkle 
with  four  heaping  table-spoons  sugar,  and  add  two  table- 
spoons cold  water;  cover  and  bake  fifteen  or  twenty  minutes. 


124 


Pastry 


CUSTARD  PIE. 

For  a  large  pie  take  three  eggs,  one  pint  milk,  and  half  a 
table-spoon  of  corn  starch,  half  cup  sugar,  flavor  to  taste. 
Cocoanut  pie  is  just  the  same,  only  add  to  it  one  cup  of  grated 
cocoanut. 

LEMON  PIE — No.  1. 

cups  sugar,  2  eggs, 

2  table-spoons  flour,  1  tea-cup  water. 

LEMON  PIE— No.  2. 

1  cup  sugar,  1  cup  milk, 

3  eggs,  1  lemon, 

2  table-spoons  flour. 

LEMON  PIE— No.  3. 

1  lemon,  grated,  1  cup  sugar, 
Yolks  of  3  eggs,  Small  piece  butter, 

3  table-spoons  milk,  1  tea-spoon  corn  starch. 

Beat  all  together  and  bake  in  a  rich  crust;  beat  the  whites 
with  three  table-spoous  sugar,  place  on  the  pie  when  done, 
and  then  brown  in  the  oven. 

MINCE  MEAT— No.  1. 

2  bowls  chopped  apples,  1  bowl  meat  chopped  with  £ 

2  tea  cups  molasses,  pound  suet, 

1  large  tea-spoon  cinnamon,  1  large  tea-spoon  cloves, 

1  nutmeg,  1  pound  raisins, 

\  pound  currants,  £  pound  citron  cut  fine, 

1  quart  cider,  Sugar  and  salt  to  taste. 

MINCE  MEAT— No.  2.— EXCELLENT, 

4  pounds  beef  cooked  tender,     3  pounds  suet,  chopped  fine, 
8  pounds  apples,  chopped  fine,    2  pounds  currants,  washed, 

3  pounds  raisins,  seeded,  5  pounds  brown  sugar, 
1  pound  citron,  cut  fine,            1  quart  molasses, 

1  ounce  mace,  1  ounce  cinnamon, 

\  ounce  cloves,  3  nutmegs, 

1  quart  Madeira  wine,  1  pint  brandy, 

1  quart  cider. 

Mix  all  together,  and  pack  in  jars.    This  will  keep. 


Pastry, 


125 


MINCE  MEAT— No.  d.—By  a  French  Cook  of  Chicago. 


2  pints  minced  beef. 
5  pints  apples. 
2  pounds  currants, 

and  dried, 
J  ounce  ground  cloves, 
2  grated  nutmegs, 
1  tea-spoon  pepper, 


3  pints  suet, 
2  pounds  seeded  raisins, 
washed    1  pound  citron  cut  in  slices, 
1  ounce  ground  cinnamon, 
■J  ounce  ground  allspice, 

1  tea-spoon  salt, 

2  pounds  white  sugar. 


Mix  all  together  and  moisten  with  a  quart  of  Madeira  wine 
and  one  of  French  brandy.  Having  thoroughly  mixed  the 
whole,  put  it  in  a  stone  jar,  cover  with  a  brandy  paper,  and  tie 
up  closely.  Before  making  into  pies,  add  cider,  brandy  and 
sugar  to  taste.    Serve  pies  hot. 


MINCE  MEAT — No.  4.— Mrs.  L. 


7  pounds  beef  boiled  tender 

and  chopped  very  fine, 
S|  pounds  suet,  chopped, 

2  ounces  cinnamon, 
4  nutmegs, 

3  pounds  raisins,  stoned, 
Rinds  of  3  lemons, 
1  pint  sherry. 

Let  all  come  to  a  boil.  A  table-spoon  salt,  a  little  pepper, 
citron  and  figs  if  liked,  and  a  little  cider  to  thin  it.  Pack 
away  in  jars  with  sugar  or  molasses  over  the  top.  This  will 
keep  the  year  round. 


7  pounds  apples  chopped  fine, 

and  mixed  with  meat, 
3-J  pounds  brown  sugar, 
1  ounce  cloves, 
3  pounds  currants,  washed, 
Citron,  if  liked, 
3  pints  brandy, 


MOCK  MINCE  FIE. 

12  crackers  rolled  fine,  1  cup  hot  water, 

-J  cup  vinegar.  1  cup  molasses, 

1  cup  sugar,  1  cup  of  currants, 

1  cup  raisins,  Spice  to  taste. 

Measure  with  a  tea-cup.  Some  use  one  cup  dried  bread- 
crumbs, and  also  add  a  small  cup  butter.  This  is  for  four 
pies. 


126 


Pastry, 


ORANGE  PIE. 

Grated  rind  and  juice  of  two  oranges,  four  eggs,  four  table- 
spoons sugar,  and  one  of  butter;  cream  the  butter  and  sugar, 
add  the  beaten  eggs,  then  the  rind  and  juice  of  the  oranges, 
and,  .lastly,  the  whites  beaten  to  a  froth,  and  mixed  in  lightly. 
Bake  with  an  under  crust. 

PIE-PLANT  PIE. 

Mix  half  tea-cup  white  sugar  and  one  heaping  tea-spoon 
flour  together,  sprinkle  over  the  bottom  crust,  then  add  the 
pie-plant  cut  up  fine;  sprinkle  over  this  another  half  tea-cup 
sugar  and  heaping  tea-spoon  flour;  bake  fully  three-quarters 
of  an  hour  in  a  slow  oven.  Or,  stew  the  pie-plant,  sweeten, 
add  grated  rind  and  juice  of  one  lemon. 

PINE-APPLE  PIE. 

1  cup  sugar,  £  cup  butter, 

1  cup  sweet  cream,  5  eggs, 

1  pine-apple,  grated. 

Beat  butter  and  sugar  to  a  cream,  add  beaten  }7olks  of  eggs, 
then  the  pine-apple  and  cream,  and,  lastly,  the  beaten  whites, 
whipped  in  lightly.    Bake  with  under  crust  only. 

POTATO  PIE. 

Boil  either  Irish  or  sweet  potatoes  until  well  done,  mash  and 
rub  through  a  sieve ;  to  a  pint  of  the  pulp  add  three  pints  of 
sweet  milk,  table-spoon  melted  butter,  tea  cup  sugar,  three 
eggs,  pinch  of  salt,  and  nutmeg  or  lemon  to  flavor.  Use  rich 
paste  for  under  crust. 

PUMPKIN  FIE— Eastern  Style. 

Stew  pumpkin  cut  in  small  pieces  in  a  half  pint  water,  and, 
when  soft,  mash  with  a  potato-masher  very  fine,  let  the  water 
dry  away,  watching  closely  to  prevent  burning  or  scorching; 
for  each  pie  take  one  egg,  half  cup  sugar,  two  table-spoons 
pumpkin,  half  pint  rich  milk  (a  little  cream  will  improve  it), 
a  little  salt;  stir  well  together,  and  season  with  cinnamon  or 
nutmeg  and  ginger;  bake  with  under  crust  in  a  hot  oven. 


Pastry. 


127 


SAND  TARTS.— Mrs.  Teel. 


1  cup  sugar, 
Yolk  of  1  egg, 


1  cup  butter, 
White  of  1  egg, 


Roll  out,  cut,  sprinkle  cinnamon,  and  lay  on  one  blanched 
almond. 

SAND  TARTS— No.  2.— Mrs.  McFarland. 


Roll  out  thin  and  cut  in  square  cakes  with  a  knife;  spread 
the  white  of  egg  on  top,  sprinkle  with  cinnamon  and  sugar, 
and  press  a  blanched  almond  or  raisin  in  the  centre. 


Roll  out  thin  a  nice  puff-paste,  cut  out  with  a  glass  or  bis- 
cuit cutter,  and  with  a  wine-glass  or  smaller  cup  cut  out  the 
centre  of  two  out  of  three  of  these;  lay  the  rings  thus  made 
on  the  third  and  bake  immediately.  If  the  paste  is  light,  the 
shells  will  be  fine  and  may  be  used  for  tarts  or  oyster  patties. 


2  cups  sugar, 

3  cups  flour, 


1  cup  butter, 

2  eggs,  leaving  out  white  of  1. 


TART  SHELLS. 


128 


Puddings  and  Sauces. 


PUDDINGS  AND  SAUCES. 


GENERAL  DIRECTIONS. 

Puddings  of  every  kind  require  good  material.  For  boiling 
puddings,  etc.,  a  conical  muslin  bag  should  be  used.  Before 
using,  turn  it  inside  out,  dip  in  hot  water,  wring,  roll  in  flour, 
turn,  and  pour  in  pudding.  This  will  prevent  sticking  to  the 
bag.  In  steaming  puddings  it  is  am  advantage  to  tie  a  heavy 
cloth  over  the  top  of  the  dish.  In  cooking  custards  care  must 
be  taken  that  they  are  not  cooked  too  much,  as  they  then 
become  watery. 

APPLE  DUMPLINGS. 

To  one  quart  of  flour  add  three  tea-spoons  baking  powder, 
one  of  salt,  and  one  cup  of  lard  and  butter  mixed;  mix  up  soft 
with  milk,  roll  thin;  have  apples  pared  and  cored;  cut  pieces 
of  dough  just  to  fit  the  apple,  pinch  crust  together;  steam  one 
hour.    Serve  with  cream  and  sugar. 

Apples  sliced  in  pan,  sugared,  and  covered  with  this  crust 
make  a  nice  dessert;  also  peaches  and  blackberries  are  very 
nice  in  this  way. 

APPLE  DUMPLINGS— ROLLED 

Peel  and  chop  fine  tart  apples,  make  a  crust  of  one  cup  rich 
buttermilk,  one  tea-spoon  soda,  and  flour  enough  to  roll; 
roll  half  an  inch  thick,  spread  with  the  apple,  sprinkle  well 
with  sugar  and  cinnamon,  cut  in  strips  two  inches  wide,  roll 
up  like  jelly-cake,  set  up  the  rolls  in  a  dripping-pan,  putting  a 
tea-spoon  butter  on  each;  put  in  a  moderate  oven,  and  baste 
them  often  with  the  juice. 


Puddings  and  Sauces. 


129 


APPLE  DUMPLINGS— BOILED. 

Add  to  two  cups  sour  milk  one  tea-spoon  soda,  and  one  of 
salt,  half  cup  lard,  flour  enough  to  make  dough  a  little  stiffer 
than  for  biscuit;  peel,  halve  and  core  apples;  put  two  halves 
with  a  little  sugar  in  the  cavity  of  each  dumpling  (it  is  nice 
to  tie  a  cloth  around  each  one),  put  into  kettle  of  boiling  water 
slightly  salted,  boil  half  an  hour,  taking  care  that  the  water 
covers  the  dumplings.  They  are  also  very  good  steamed.  To 
bake,  make  in  the  same  way,  using  a  soft  dough,  place  in  a 
shallow  pan,  bake  in  a  hot  oven,  and  serve  with  cream  and 
sugar.  Fresh  or  canned  peaches  may  be  used  in  the  same 
way. 

APPLE  PUDDING. 

Fill  a  deep  pudding  dish  full  of  sliced  apples;  make  crust 
like  soda  biscuit  for  top  crust,  and  cut  a  hole  in  the  centre; 
cover  by  inverting  another  pan,  and  bake  one  hour.  Eat  with 
cream  and  sugar. 

APPLE  PUDDING — BAKED. 

6  large  pippins,  grated,  ^  cup  sugar, 

3  table-spoons  butter,  4  eggs,  whites  beaten  separate, 

Juice  of  one  lemon. 

Beat  butter  and  sugar  to  a  cream,  stir  in  the  yolks,  lemon, 
grated  apples,  and  lastly  the  whites;  grate  nutmeg  over  top 
and  bake  till  nicely  browned.    Eat  with  cream. 

APPLE  TAPIOCA  PUDDING. 

Pare  and  core  tart  apples,  till  openings  with  butter  and 
sugar;  put  into  a  pan  a  heaping  tea-spoon  each  of  dry  tapioca 
and  sugar  to  each  apple,  put  in  apples,  sprinkle  ground  cinna- 
mon over  them,  fill  the  pan  nearl}T  full  of  water  and  bake. 

APPLE  ROLEY-POLEY. 

Peel,  quarter  and  core  sour  apples;  make  rich  soda-biscuit 
dough  (or  raised  biscuit  dough  may  be  used  if  rolled  thinner), 
roll  to  half  an  inch  thick,  slice  the  quarters,  and  lay  on  the 

17 


130 


Puddings  and  Sauces. 


prepared  paste  or  crust,  roll  up,  tuck  ends  in,  prick  deeply 
with  a  fork,  la}^  in  a  steamer  and  place  over  a  kettle  of  boiling 
water,  cook  an  hour  and  three-quarters.  Or,  wrap  in  a  cloth, 
tie  up  the  ends  and  baste  up  sides,  put  in  a  kettle  of  boiling 
water,  and  boil  an  hour  and  a  half,  or  more,  keeping  the  water 
boiling  constantly.  Cut  across  and  eat  with  sweetened  cream 
or  butter  and  sugar.  Cherries,  dried  fruit,  any  kind  of  berries, 
jelly,  or  apple-butter  (raisins  may  be  added  to  the  last  two), 
can  be  used.  _ 

BIRD'S-NEST  PUDDING. 
Pare  and  core,  without  quartering,  enough  quick-cooking 
tart  apples  to  fill  a  pudding  pan;  make  a  custard  of  one  quart 
milk  and  the  yolks  of  six  eggs;  sweeten,  spice,  pour  over 
apples,  and  bake;  when  done,  use  the  whites  of  eggs  beaten 
stiff  with  six  table-spoons  white  sugar;  spread  the  custard  on, 
brown  lightly,  and  serve  either  hot  or  cold. 

BOSTON  SNOW  PUDDING. — Mary  Lambing. 

One  box  gelatine  soaked  in  just  enough  cold  water  to  cover 
it;  then  pour  one  pint  boiling  water,  one  cup  of  sugar,  whites 
of  four  eggs,  beaten.    Stir  one  hour. 

BROWN  PUDDING. 

3  cups  flour,  1  cup  molasses, 

1  cup  raisins,  1  cup  suet,  chopped, 

1  tea-spoon  soda,  A  pinch  of  salt. 

Steam  three  hours.  Eat  with  wine  or  vinegar  sauce. 

CHOCOLATE  PUDDING. 

1  quart  sweet  milk,  3  ounces  grated  chocolate, 

1  cup  sugar,  Yolks  of  5  eggs. 

Scald  milk  and  chocolate  together,  and  when  cool  add  sugar 
and  eggs,  and  bake.  When  done  put  beaten  whites  and  five 
table-spoons  sugar  on  top,  and  set  in  oven  to  brown.  Or,  boil 
one  pint  milk,  add  half  cup  butter,  one  of  sugar,  and  three 
ounces  grated  chocolate;  pour  this  over  two  slices  of  bread 
soaked  in  water;  when  cool,  add  the  well-beaten  yolks  of  four 
eggs,  bake,  and  when  done,  spread  over  the  whites  beaten  with 
sugar,  and  brown  in  oven.    Serve  hot  or  cold. 


Puddings  and  Sauces. 


131 


COCOANUT  PUDDING. 

Nearly  two  quarts  milk,  six  eggs,  one  cocoanut  grated,  sugar 
to  taste,  one  tea-cup  butter,  nutmeg;  after  placed  in  oven,  stir 
once  or  twice  as  soon  as  it  commences  to  form. 

COTTAGE  PUDDING. 

1  cup  sugar,  \  cup  butter, 

1  egg,  1  cup  sweet  milk, 

1  tea  spoon  soda  in  the  milk,     2  tea-spoons  cream  tartar  in 

3  cups  flour,  the  flour, 

\  tea-spoon  extract  of  lemon. 

Sprinkle  a  little  sugar  over  the  top  just  before  putting  in  the 
oven,  bake  in  a  small  bread-pan,  and  when  done  cut  in  squares, 
and  serve  with  sauce  made  with  two  table-spoons  butter,  cup 
sugar,  table-spoon  flour  wet  with  a  little  cold  water  and  stirred 
until  like  cream;  add  a  pint  boiling  water,  let  boil  two  or 
three  minutes,  stirring  all  the  time.  After  taking  from  the 
fire  add  half  tea-spoon  extract  of  lemon.  Nutmeg  may  be 
used  in  place  of  lemon.  What  is  left  of  the  pudding  and 
sauce  may  be  served  cold  for  tea. 

COTTAGE  PUDDIN G. — Mrs.  Jos.  McCarter. 

Beat  three  table-spoons  melted  butter  and  one  cup  sugar  to 
cream;  one  well-beaten  egg,  a  light  pint  of  flour,  two  tea- 
spoons baking  powder,  one  cup  sweet  milk. 

CORN  STARCH  PUDDING. 

1  pint  sweet  milk,  Whites  of  three  eggs, 

2  table-spoons  corn  starch,        3  table-spoons  sugar,  - 
A  little  salt. 

Put  the  milk  in  a  pan  or  small  bucket  set  in  a  kettle  of  hot 
water  on  the  stove,  and  when  it  reaches  the  boiling  point  add 
the  sugar,  then  the  starch  dissolved  a  little  cold  milk,  and 
lastly  the  whites  of  eggs  whipped  to  a  stiff  froth;  beat  it,  and 
let  cook  a  few  minutes,  then  pour  into  tea-cups,  filling  about 
half  full,  and  set  in  cool  place.  For  sauce,  make  a  boiled  cus- 
tard as  follows:  Bring  to  boiling  point  one  pint  of  milk,  add 
three  table-spoons  sugar,  then  the  beaten  yolks  thinned  by 


132 


Puddings  and  Sauces. 


adding  one  table-spoon  milk,  stirring  all  the  time  till  it  thick- 
ens; flavor  with  two  tea-spoons  lemon  or  vanilla,  and  set  to 
cool.  In  serving,  put  one  of  the  moulds  in  a  sauce-dish  for 
each  person,  and  pour  over  it  some  of  the  boiled  custard.  Or 
the  pudding  may  be  made  in  one  large  mould. 

To  make  a  chocolate  pudding,  flavor  the  above  pudding 
with  vanilla,  remove  two-thirds  of  it,  and  add  half  a  cake  of 
chocolate  softened,  mashed,  and  dissolved  in  a  little  milk. 
Put  a  layer  of  half  the  white  pudding  into  the  mould,  then  the 
chocolate,  then  the  rest  of  the  white;  or  two  kvyers  of  chocolate 
may  be  used  with  a  white  between ;  or  the  centre  may  be  cocoa 
(made  by  adding  half  a  cocoanut  grated  fine),  and  the  out  side 
chocolate;  or  pine-apple  chopped  fine  (if  first  cooked  in  a  little 
water  the  latter  makes  a  nice  dressing),  or  strawberries  may 
be  used. 


Stir  together  a  half  pint  of  cream,  an  ounce  and  a  half  01 
sugar,  the  yolks  of  three  eggs,  and  a  little  grated  nutmeg; 
add  the  well-beaten  whites,  stirring  lightly,  and  pour  into  a 
pie-plate  on  which  has  been  sprinkled  the  crumbs  of  stale 
bread  to  about  the  thickness  of  an  ordinary  crust;  sprinkle 
over  the  top  a  layer  of  bread  crumbs  and  bake. 


Boil  two  and  a  half  hours  in  a  two-quart  pail,  set  in  a  kettle 
of  boiling  water,  or  steam  for  the  same  time.    For  sauce  take 
aone  cup  white  sugar,  butter  size  of  an  egg,  grated  rind  of  a 
lemon,  and  white  of  an  egg. 


CREAM  PUDDING. 


EGGLESS  PLUM  PUDDING. 


Heaping  cup  bread  crumbs, 
1  cup  suet  chopped  fine, 
1  cup  molasses, 
1  table-spoon  soda, 
1  tea-spoon  cloves, 


2  cups  flour, 

1  cup  raisins, 

1  cup  sweet  milk, 

1  tea-spoon  salt, 

1  tea-spoon  cinnamon. 


FIG  PUDDING. 


•J  pound  figs, 

2-J-  ounces  powdered  sugar, 
2  eggs, 


£  pound  grated  bread, 
3  ounces  butter, 
1  tea-cup  milk. 


Puddings  and  Sauces. 


133 


Chop  figs  fine  and  mix  with  butter,  and  by  degrees  add  the 
other  ingredients;  butter  and  sprinkle  a  mould  with  bread- 
crumbs, pour  in  pudding,  cover  closely,  and  boil  for  three 
hours. 

FLOUR  PUDDING. — Hattie  Webb. 

Boil  one  quart  of  milk ;  have  three  table-spoons  flour  mixed 
fine  with  milk  and  a  little  salt,  and  stir  it  into  the  boiling 
milk;  let  it  boil,  then  pour  into  cups  to  cool.  Serve  with 
cream,  sugar,  and  some  kind  of  berries  or  jelly.  Should  be 
made  in  the  morning  to  get  cold  for  dinner. 

FROZEN  PUDDING, 
Make  a  half  gallon  rich  boiled  custard,  sweeten  to  taste,  add 
two  table-spoons  gelatine,  or  a  heaping  table-spoou  of  sea-moss 
farina,  dissolved  in  a  half  tea-cup  cold  milk ;  let  the  custard 
cool,  put  it  in  freezer,  and  as  soon  as  it  begins  to  freeze,  add 
one  pound  raisins,  one  pint  strawberry  preserves,  one  quart 
whipped  cream;  stir  and  beat  well  like  ice-cream.  Blanched 
almonds  or  grated  cocoanut  are  additions.  Some  prefer  cur- 
rants to  raisins,  and  some  also  add  citron  chopped  fine. 

FRUIT  PUDDING. 

Stew  currants  or  any  small  fruits,  fresh  or  dried,  with  sugar 
to  taste,  and  pour  hot  over  thin  slices  of  baker's  bread  with 
crust  cut  off,  making  alternate  layers  of  fruit  and  bread,  and 
leaving  a  thick  layer  of  fruit  for  the  last.  Put  a  plate  on  top, 
and  when  cool  set  on  ice;  serve  with  sifted  sugar,  or  cream 
and  sugar. 

This  pudding  is  delicious  made  with  Boston  or  milk  crack- 
ers split  open,  and  stewed  apricots  or  peaches,  with  plenty  of 
juice  arranged  as  above.  Or  another  way  is  to  toast  and 
butter  slices  of  bread,  pour  over  it  hot  stewed  fruit  in  alter- 
nate layers,  and  serve  warm  with  rich,  hot  sauce. 

FRUIT  PUDDING — BOILED. 

One  cup  molasses,  three  cups  flour,  one  cup  milk  (if  sour, 
use  one  tea-spoon  soda,  if  sweet,  two  tea-spoons  baking  pow- 
der), two  eggs,  one  cup  raisins,  half  cup  currants.  Boil  two 
and  a  half  hours.    Eat  with  brandy  or  vinegar  sauce. 


134 


Puddings  and  Sauces. 


FRUIT  PUDDING— No.  2. 

^  pound  suet,  \  pound  Indian  meal, 

1  pound  flour,  \\  tea-spoons  salt, 

2  quarts  quinces,  2  table-spoons  sugar, 
Water  enough  to  moisten. 

Chop  suet  very  fine,  add  the  meal  and  salt,  rubbing  well 
together;  then  add  the  flour  and  thoroughly  mix.  When  well 
rubbed  together  and  free  from  lumps,  add  the  cold  water,  a 
little  at  a  time,  till  the  mass  is  sufficiently  moist  to  roll  out — 
being  like  pie-crust.  Roll  out  on  a  floured  board,  making  a 
long,  narrow  crust,  about  eight  inches  wide  and  two  and  a 
half  feet  long,  having  one  end  a  little  wider  than  the  other. 
Chop  the  quinces  very  fine,  spread  over  the  whole  crust, 
sprinkle  the  sugar  over  them,  and  roll  all  up,  commencing  at 
the  narrow  end.  Roll  up  like  a  roll  of  paper,  close  up  the 
ends,  and  put  in  a  floured  pudding  bag  and  boil  in  a  pot  of 
boiling  water  steadily  for  two  hours.  Serve  with  any  pudding 
sauce.  Apples  chopped  fine,  peaches  cut  up,  or  any  of  the 
berries  can  be  substituted  for  the  quinces. 


FRUIT  PUDDING— No.  3.— Mrs.  Teel 


2  cups  suet,  chopped  fine, 
1  cup  sour  milk, 
4  cups  flour, 
1  tea-spoon  salt, 
All  kinds  spice. 

Steam  two  hours  or  longer. 


1  cup  molasses, 
1  cup  sour  milk, 
1  cup  raisins, 
1  tea-spoon  soda, 


GRANDMOTHER'S  PUDDING. 

1  pint  sour  milk,  1  egg, 

A  little  salt,  1  tea-spoon  soda, 

\  cup  sugar,  Flour  to  make  stiff  batter. 

Pare  five  sour  apples,  remove  the  cores,  place  in  buttered 
dish  and  pour  batter  over  the  apples.  Bake  one  hour.  Serve 
with  cream  and  sugar,  or  warm  sauce. 


Puddings  and  Sauces, 


135 


HALF-BATCH  PLUM  PUDDING. 


3  eggs, 

4-  pound  sugar. 
4-  table-spoon  mace. 
4-  table  spoon  cloves, 
|-  gill  molasses. 
4-  pound  raisins. 
J  pound  citron,  well  floured. 
Bake  or  steam. 


\  pound  flour. 

\  pound  bread  crumbs  soaked 

in  1  pint  milk, 
\  table-spoon  cinnamon. 
J  gill  wine  or  brandy, 
4-  pound  currants, 


HALF-HOUR  PUDDING. 

Beat  four  table-spoons  butter  to  a  cream  with  half  a  pint 
powdered  sugar:  add  the  yolks  of  three  eggs,  beating  them  in 
thoroughly,  then  a  rounded  half  pint  of  corn  meal,  and  the 
whites  of  the  eggs  beaten  to  a  stiff  froth.  Mix  well  and  bake 
in  a  pudding  dish,  well  buttered.    Serve  hot  with  sauce. 

INDIAN  PUDDING. 

Stir  into  one  quart  of  boiling  milk  enough  meal  to  make  a 
moderately  stiff  batter ;  add  two  well  beaten  eggs,  a  little  salt, 
a  small  cup  finely  chopped  suet,  half  tea-spoon  soda,  a  little 
molasses,  and  a  quart  whortle  berries,  or  raisins,  or  no  fruit. 
Boil  two  hours  in  a  bag.  leaving  room  for  it  to  swell.  Serve 
with  rich  liquid  sauce. 

INDIAN  PUDDING— BOILED. 

Warm  a  pint  of  molasses  and  a  pint  of  milk,  stir  well 
together,  beat  four  eggs  and  stir  gradually  into  molasse*  and 
milk,  add  a  pound  of  beef  suet,  chopped  line,  and  Indian  meal 
sufficient  to  make  a  thick  batter;  add  a  tea-spoon  cinnamon, 
nutmeg  and  a  little  gi  n  ted  lemon  peel,  and  stir  all  together 
thoroughly;  dip  cloth  into  boiling  water,  shake,  flour  a  little, 
turn  in  the  mixture,  tie  up,  leaving  room  for  the  pudding  to 
swell,  and  boil  three  hours.  Serve  hot  with  sauce  made  of 
drawn  butter,  wine  and  nutmeg. 


136 


Puddings  and  Sauces. 


LEMON  PUDDING. 

The  juice  and  grated  rind  of  one  lemon,  cup  sugar,  yolks  of 
two  eggs,  three  table-spoons  flour,  and  milk  enough  to  fill  the 
dish;  line  dish  with  paste,  pour  in  custard  and  bake  till  done; 
beat  whites  of  two  eggs,  add  four  table-spoons  sugar,  spread 
on  top  and  brown. 

LEMON  PUDDING— EXTRA  GOOD. 

1  pound  butter,  1  pound  sugar, 

1  wine-glass  wine  or  brandy,     1  wine-glass  rose  water, 

3  lemons,  11  eggs. 

Stir  the  butter  and  sugar  to  a  cream,  add  the  grated  rind 
and  juice  of  the  lemons,  and  then  the  other  ingredients;  line 
dish  with  puff  paste  and  bake  half  an  hour. 

MARCH  PUDDING. 

1  cup  dried  apples.  1  cup  molasses, 

1^  cups  flour,  J  cup  butter. 

1  egg,  1  tea  spoon  soda, 

1  tea-spoon  cinnamon,  -J  tea-spoon  cloves. 

Wash  and  soak  apples  over  night,  cut  fine  and  mix  with 
water  in  which  they  were  soaked,  add  molasses  and  spiee; 
mix  egg,  butter  and  flour  together;  stir  soda  with  apples  and 
molasses;  add  and  bake  immediately;  serve  hot  with  sauce 
made  of  half  cup  butter  and  one  cup  sugar  beaten  smooth  and 
flavored  with  nutmeg,  lemon  or  vanilla. 

MINUTE  PUDDING. 

Take  sweet  milk,  or  half  water  and  milk,  a  pinch  of  salt,  let 
boil,  stir  in  wheat  flour  as  in  making  corn  meal  mush;  remove 
from  fire,  and  serve  at  once  with  sweetened  cream  flavored 
with  nutmeg.  Some  think  it  improved  by  adding  blackber- 
ries, raspberries  or  cherries,  either  fresh  or  canned,  just  after 
taking  from  the  stove. 

MINUTE  PUDDING— No.  2. 

Put  some  milk  over  the  fire,  with  a  bit  of  lemon  peel  or 
essence  of  lemon,  let  it  boil;  then  having  made  a  large  cup  of 


Puddings  and  Sauces. 


137 


flour  to  a  paste  with  a  little  cold  milk,  stir  it  by  degrees  into 
the  boiling  milk;  let  it  boil,  stirring  it  all  the  time,  until  it 
is  thick;  then  dip  a  bowl  in  cold  water,  pour  the  pudding  in, 
and  let  it  cool  a  little  before  turning  it  out.  Eat  with  butter 
and  sugar  sauce.  The  juice  of  a  lemon  or  a  glass  of  wine  is 
an  improvement, 

MOLASSES  PUDDING. 

3  cups  flour,  1  cup  molasses, 

1  cup  melted  butter,  1  cup  hot  water. 

1  tea-spoon  soda. 

Steam  three  hours.  Serve  with  a  sauce  of  butter  and  sugar 
worked  to  a  cream,  with  hot  water  added  to  make  it  of  proper 
consistency,  and  flavored  with  vanilla, 

PLUM  PUDDING— No.  1. 

Take  half  a  pound  flour,  half  pound  raisins  stoned  and 
chopped,  and  some  currants,  washed,  picked  and  dried;  use 
milk  enough  to  stir  easily  with  a  spoon;  add  half  a  pound  of 
suet  chopped  fine,  a  tea-spoon  of  salt,  and  four  well  beaten 
eggs ;  tie  in  a  floured  cloth  and  boil  four  hours.  The  water 
must  boil  when  it  is  put  in  and  continue  boiling  until  it  is 
done. 

PLUM  PUDDING-  No.  2, 

Beat  together  half  cup  sugar,  two  eggs,  and  one  tea-spoon 
butter,  add  three  pints  sweet  milk,  a  little  salt,  six  crackers 
rolled  fine,  one  cup  raisins,  and  half  sheet  gelatine  dissolved 
in  a  little  water;  season  with  nutmeg  or  cinnamon.  Bake  in 
a  pudding-dish, 

PLUM  PUDDING— No.  3. 

1-J  pounds  raisins,  1  pound  currants, 

1  pound  beef  suet,  chopped    f  pound  brown  sugar, 

very  fine,  6  ounces  mixed  peel, 

8  eggs,  1  pound  flour, 

Mix  very  stifT  and  let  stand  over  night,  then  thin  it  a  little 
and  tie  very  tight  in  bags  and-  boil  six  or  eight  hours, 
is 


138 


Puddings  and  Sauces, 


POOK  MAN'S  PUDDING. 

2  quarts  milk,  1  cup  uncooked  rice, 

\  cup  sugar,  Butter  size  of  a  walnut, 

2  tea-spoons  salt,  Spice  to  taste. 

Bake  three  hours,  and  stir  several  times  during  the  first 
hour. 

QUEEN  OF  PUDDINGS. — Mrs.  B.  W.  Flower. 

1  pint  sifted  bread  crumbs,       1  quart  milk, 
1  cup  sugar,  Yolks  of  4  eggs, 

Butter  size  of  an  egg  (some  add  grated  rind  of  lemon). 

Bake  until  done — but  do  not  allow  to  become  watery — and 
spread  with  a  la}Ter  of  jelly.  Whip  whites  of  eggs  to  a  stiff 
froth  with  five  table-spoons  sugar,  and  juice  of  one  lemon, 
spread  on  top  and  brown.  Good  with  or  without  sauce,  and 
very  good  cold.  Make  a  hard  sauce  for  it  as  follows  :  One 
cup  very  light  brown  sugar,  half  cup  butter,  half  grated  rind 
and  the  juice  of  one  lemon;  beat  until  very  light.  Vanilla 
may  be  used  instead  of  the  lemon. 

Or,  for  cocoanut  pudding,  soak  half  cup  dessicated  cocoanut 
in  boiling  milk  for  half  an  hour  or  more,  and  add  to  the  pud- 
ding, baking  and  finishing  as  above;  or, -for  orange  pudding, 
add  a  half  dozen  grated  oranges. 

RICE  PUDDING. 

To  a  cup  of  rice  boiled  in  a  custard  kettle  in  a  pint  of  water 
(seasoned  well  with  salt)  until  dry,  add  a  pint  of  milk  in 
which  a  little  corn  starch  has  been  dissolved,  and  boil  again; 
add  the  yolks  of  two  eggs  beaten  with  half  a  cup  of  sugar,  stir 
well  together,  and  lastly  add  the  juice  and  grated  rind  of  one 
lemon.  Place  in  a  dish  and  bake  slowly  in  the  oven;  when 
done,  spread  over  the  top  the  whites  beaten  with  two  table- 
spoons sugar,  and  brown  in  oven.  A  cup  of  raisins  may  be 
added  just  before  baking.  Or,  after  boiling  the  rice  with  the 
milk,  eggs  and  sugar,  add  a  lump  of  butter,  and  place  a  layer 
of  the  rice  about  an  inch  thick  in  a  buttered  dish  sprinkled 
with  bread  crumbs,  then  a  layer  of  peaches  (either  fresh  or 


Puddings  and  Sauces.  139 


canned),  repeating  until  dish  is  full,  leaving  rice  for  the  last 
layer;  bake  slowly  for  half  an  hour,  and  when  done,  cover  with 
the  beaten  whites,  as  above. 

RICE  PUDDING— PLAIN. 

Take  half  a  tea-cup  best  rice,  put  it  in  a  small  pie  dish  with 
three  table-spoons  moist  sugar;  fill  the  dish  with  milk  and 
water  in  equal  proportions,  and  bake  very  slowly.  It  is  eaten 
cold. 

RICE  PUDDING— PLAIN— No.  2. 

1  tea-cup  boiled  rice,  2  eggs, 

Sugar,  salt  and  cinnamon  to    1  quart  sweet  milk, 
taste. 

Bake  half  an  hour ;  serve  with  hard  sauce. 

RICE  SNOW  BALLS. 

Boil  one  pint  rice  until  soft  in  two  quarts  water  with  a  tea- 
spoon salt;  put  in  small  cups,  and  when  perfectly  cold  place 
in  a  dish.  Make  a  boiled  custard  of  the  yolks  of  three  eggs, 
one  pint  sweet  milk,  and  one  tea-spoon  corn  starch;  flavor 
with  lemon.  When  cold  pour  over  the  rice  balls  half  an  hour 
before  serving.    This  is  a  very  simple  but  nice  dessert. 

SAGO  AND  APPLE  PUDDING. 

Pare  six  apples  and  punch  out  the  cores,  fill  holes  with  cin- 
namon and  sugar,  using  two  tea-spoons  cinnamon  to  a  cup  of 
sugar;  take  one  table-spoon  sago  to  each  apple,  wash  thor- 
oughly and  let  soak  an  hour  in  water  enough  to  cover  the 
apples,  pour  water  and  sago  over  the  apples,  and  bake  an 
hour  and  a  half. 

STEAM  PUDDING. 


1  quart  flour, 

1  tea-cup  chopped  suet, 

^  tea-cup  molasses, 

1  tea-spoon  soda, 

A  little  salt. 

Mix,  and  steam  three  hours. 


1  coffee-cup  chopped  raisins  or 
currants, 

-J  tea-cup  brown  sugar, 

2  tea-cups  sweet  milk, 


140 


Puddings  and  Sauces. 


COCOANUT  SAUCE. 

2  table-spoons  butter,  1  cup  sugar, 

Milk  of  one  cocoanut,  with  a  small  piece  grated, 

COLD  CREAM  SAUCE.— Mrs.  A.  Wilson, 

Beat  together  one  cup  sugar  and  half  cup  butter,  and  add  a 
cup  rich  cream.  Stir  all  to  a  cream,  flavor  with  vanilla  or 
lemon,  and  place  where  it  will  get  very  cold  before  serving. 

CREAM  SAUCE— No.  1. 

I  pint  boiling  milk,  Yolks  of  4  eggs, 

\  cup  sugar,  1  tea-spoon  corn  starch. 

Vanilla. 

CREAM  SAUCE— No.  2. 

1  tea-cup  powdered  white  sugar,  Scant  half  tea-cup  butter, 
\  tea-cup  rich  cream. 

Beat  butter  and  sugar  thoroughly,  add  cream,  stir  the  whole 
into  half  tea-cup  boiling  water,  place  on  the  stove  for  a  few 
moments,  stirring  it  constantly,  take  off  and  add  flavoring. 

EVERY-DAY  SAUCE. 

To  one  pint  boiling  water  add  heaping  tea-cup  sugar,  table- 
spoon butter,  a  pinch  of  salt,  and  table-spoon  corn  starch  dis- 
solved in  cold  water;  season  with  nutmeg  or  vanilla,  boil  half 
an  hour,  and  if  good  and  well  cooked  it  will  be  very  clear. 
Or,  to  a  table-spoon  of  currant  jelly  add  a  table-spoon  of  hot 
water:  beat  well  and  add  to  the  above  just  before  serving, 
omitting  all  other  flavoring.  Or,  add  a  tea-spoon  raspberry 
syrup,  or  two  table-spoons  vinegar. 

LEMON  SAUCE. 

2  cups  sugar,  2  eggs, 

J uice  of  two  lemons,  and  rind  if  you  choose. 

Beat  all  together,  and  just  before  serving  add  pint  boiling 
water;  set  on  stove  and  let  boil  at  once.  Some  add  one-third 
cup  butter  and  table-spoon  corn  starch. 


Puddings  and  Sauces. 


141 


MAPLE  SUGAR  SAUCE. 

Melt  over  a  slow  fire,  in  a  small  tea-cup  of  water,  half  a  pint 
maple  sugar;  let  it  simmer,  removing  all  scum;  add  four  table 
spoons  butter  mixed  with  a  level  tea-spoon  flour,  and  one  of 
grated  nutmeg;  boil  for  a  few  moments  and  serve  with  boiled 
puddings, 

ORANGE  HARD  SAUCE, 

Select  a  thin  orange,  cut  the  skin  into  sis  equal  parts,  by 
cutting  through  the  skin  at  the  stem  end  and  passing  the 
knife  around  the  orange  to  near  the  blossom  end;  loosen  and 
turn  each  piece  down  and  remove  the  orange,  Extract  juice 
and  mix  it  with  yellow  sugar  (prepared  by  dropping  a  drop 
or  two  of  -  gold  coloring"  on  white  sugar  while  stirring  it)  till 
a  ball  can  be  formed,  which  place  inside  the  orange  peel  and 
serve,  The  "gold  coloring"  maybe  omitted;  Lemon  sauce 
may  be  made  in  the  same  way. 

PINE-APPLE  SAUCE, 

Mix  butter  and  sugar,  flavor  with  pine-apple  (or  any  other 
flavoring),  form  a  pyramid,  and  wick  a  tea-spoon  shape  it  like 
a  pine-apple, 

PLAIN  CREAM  SAUCE, 

I  pint  cream.  3  ounces  brown  sugar, 

^  small  nutmeg  grated, 


142 


Desserts. 


DESSERTS. 


More  than  book  learning,  more  than  fashionable  clothing, 
more  than  splendid  architecture,  does  the  domestic  cookery  of 
a  people  show  progress  in  refinement.  The  mere  cravings  of 
hunger  are  easily  satisfied,  and  as  the  family  cooking  and  eat- 
ing is  done  in  the  privacy  of  our  homes,  public  opinion  and 
criticism,  which  so  irresistibly  guide  us  in  matters  of  dress 
and  other  external  appearances,  has  but  little  influence  upon 
the  preparation  of  the  family  food.  Hence  poor  cooking  is  the 
rule.  There  is  no  excuse  for  this  except  ignorance,  and  this 
ignorance  is  of  choice,  for  the  means  of  knowledge  are  within 
reach  of  all.  Economy  and  crude  cookery  have  no  connection. 
A  good  cook  will  utilize  every  particle  of  food  material  put 
into  her  hands,  and  without  the  use  of  any  more  expensive 
ingredient  than  easily  acquired  skill,  will  make  the  scraps 
palatable  and  wholesome. 

But  if  our  cookery  may  be  taken  as  standard  by  which  to 
judge  how  far  we  really  are  removed  from  barbarism,  our 
progress  in  the  culinary  art  may  with  equal  propriety  be 
gauged  by  our  desserts.  A  good  dessert  leaves  a  pleasant 
impression,  and  so  helps  digestion.  It  is  the  poetry  of 
cookery. 

MILK-MADE  DESSERTS. 

Desserts  add  but  a  trifle  to  housekeeping  expenses,  espe- 
cially those  simply  made  with  milk  and  eggs.  With  a  little 
ingenuity  one  recipe  may  be  made  to  serve  with  variations  for 
many  dishes. 

Make  a  soft  boiled  custard  by  using  a  pint  of  milk,  the 
yolk  of  two  eggs,  two  table-spoons  sugar,  and  a  tea-spoon  of 


Desserts. 


143 


corn  starch;  slice  two  oranges,  and  line  the  bottom  of  your 
pudding  dish;  flavor  the  custard  with  the  juice  or  grated  peel 
of  one  orange  (be  careful  to  grate  only  the  yellow  part;  the 
white  skin  is  very  bitter),  turn  the  custard  over  the  orange, 
and  bake  ten  or  fifteen  minutes,  Beat  the  whites  of  the  two 
eggs  with  a  table-spoon  of  sugar,  and  spread  on  the  top  when 
when  the  pudding  is  baked,  and  let  it  brown  slightly. 

For  another  pudding  slice  four  apples  and  let  them  simmer 
in  the  oven  with  a  little  water  till  tender.  Make  a  custard  in 
the  same  way  as  before,  pour  over  them,  but  flavor  with  lemon. 
Again,  put  half  a  can  of  strawberries,  peaches,  or  pine-apple 
in  your  pudding,  and  you  vary  your  pudding  according  to 
your  fruit.  The  remaining  fruit  in  the  can  may  be  used 
another  day  by  making  a  corn  starch  pudding  according  to 
the  recipe  on  the  package,  adding  the  fruit  while  it  is  boiling, 
to  be  served  either  hot  or  cold,  with  cream  and  sugar  or  a 
sauce.  With  berries  it  is  nice  to  make  a  sauce  of  a  cup  of 
sugar  and  half  a  cup  of  butter,  rubbed  to  a  cream,  flavored 
with  a  tea-spoon  lemon  and  vanilla  and  two  teaspoons  vinegar. 
Then  pour  upon  the  mixture  a  tea-cup  of  berry  juice,  boiling- 
hot.  This  same  recipe,  with  a  cup  of  juice  from  stewed  prunes 
makes  a  delicious  sauce  for  a  boiled  pudding  or  roly-poly. 
Half  a  can  of  fruit  is  sufficient  for  a  roly-poly.  By  using  fruit 
in  this  way  one  can  will  make  two  desserts. 

I  will  give  one  other  standard  recipe  to  be  varied  according 
to  taste :  Put  half  a  package  of  gelatine  in  a  cup  of  cold  water 
and  let  it  stand  ten  minutes,  then  pour  on  a  cup  of  boiling 
water,  stirring  until  thoroughly  dissolved.  Add  a  cup  of 
cream  or  milk,  two  table-spoons  sugar,  and  a  cup  of  cold 
boiled  coffee;  to  be  eaten  cold,  with  cream  and  sugar,  This  is 
called  coffee  cream.  For  chocolate  cream,  make  in  the  same 
way,  but  add,  instead  of  coffee,  a  cup  of  grated  chocolate 
boiled  in  a  pint  of  miJk.  For  orange  cream  add  the  juice  and 
grated  peel  of  one  orange  and  the  yolks  of  two  eggs.  For 
pine-apple  cream  a  few  slices  of  pine-apple,  a  cup  of  juice,  and 
the  yolks  of  two  eggs.  Other  fruits  may  be  used  in  the  same 
way. 


144 


Dessertst 


In  making  custards,  dip  out  a  little  scalding  milk  and  pour 
slowly  over  the  beaten  esgs,  stirring  briskly.  This  partially 
cooks  the  eggs  and  prevents  their  curdling;  then  pour  slowly 
into  the  boiling  milk,  stirring  constantly  until  done. 

AMBROSIA. 

Pare  pine-apple  and  cut  into  small  pieces,  fill  dish  one- third 
full,  then  grate  cocoanut  over  each  layer,  with  sugar,  until 
your  dish  is  full;  prepare  several  hours  before  using.  Orange 
may  be  substituted  for  pine-apple. 

APPLE  FLOAT. — Mrs.  John  Webb,  Erie. 

3  large  apples,  White  of  1  egg, 

1  cup  granulated  sugar,  1  grated  lemon. 

Bake  apples;  when  done  scrape  out  the  pulp,  mix  with  the 
sugar  and  lemon,  and  when  quite  cold  put  in  the  whites  of 
the  eggs;  beat  all  well  together  for  at  least  half  an  hour;  it 
will  become  a  beautiful  white  mass. 

Custard  for  the  above: 
1  quart  milk,  Yolks  of  3  eggs, 

1  tea-spoon  corn  starch,  Sweeten  to  taste, 

Flavor  with  vanilla. 

Serve  the  custard  with  spoonfuls  of  the  float, 

APPLE  TAPIOCA. 

1  cup  tapioca,  6  large  apples  pared  and  cored, 

■J  cup  brown  sugar,  1  tea-spoon  cinnamon, 

Soak  tapioca  until  soft,  pare  and  core  apples,  put  into  small 
pan,  put  a  little  butter  into  each,  pour  tapioca  over  apples  and 
sprinkle  cinnamon  over  top;  bake  till  apples  are  done.  Serve 
hot  or  cold  with  sweetened  cream,  or  nice  milk.  Use  any  kind 
of  fruit  the  same  way. 

BLANC  MANGE  PIE. — Mrs.  Robert  Saltsman. 
\  tea-cup  sifted  flour,  1  cup  sugar, 

3  eggs,  1  tea-spoon  cream  tartar, 

\  tea-spoon  soda,  dissolved  in    A  pinch  of  salt, 

table-spoon  milk. 

This  will  make  two  pies, 


Desserts. 


145 


For  the  custard,  take — 

1  pint  milk,  1  cup  sugar, 

2  eggs,  2  table-spoons  corn  starch. 
Cut  cake  open  and  spread  between ;  stick  the  edges  together 

with  the  white  of  an  e^g. 

BLANC  MANGE— COLORED. 

This  is  otherwise  known  as  "  rothe  grutzen."  The  milk 
never  curdles,  for  none  is  needed.  Boil  the  fruit  in  a  little 
water,  strain  it  through  a  jelly  bag;  sweeten  to  taste,  and  use 
the  juice  instead  of  milk.  Make  it  precisely  as  you  would 
plain  bianc  mange — no  eggs,  no  flavoring,  and  increasing  very 
slightly  the  proportions  of  corn  starch.  Any  of  the  darker- 
colored  fruits  may  be  used — currants,  red  cherries,  raspberries, 
blackberries,  black  currants,  whortle  berries  or  grapes.  The 
rothe  grutzen  will  be  lighter  or  darker,  as  more  or  less  water 
is  used,  and  according  to  the  color  of  the  fruit. 

CHOCOLATE  BLANC  MANGE. 

Half  box  gelatine,  soaked  till  dissolved  in  as  much  cold 
water  as  will  cover  it,  four  ounces  sweet  chocolate  grated,  one 
quart  sweet  milk,  one  cup  sugar.  Boil  milk,  sugar  and  choco- 
late five  minutes,  add  gelatine,  and  boil  five  minutes  more, 
stirring  constantly;  flavor  with  vanilla,  put  in  moulds  to  cool 
and  eat  with  cream.  If  wanted  for  tea  make  in  the  morning ; 
if  for  dinner  the  night  before.  For  a  plain  bianc  mange  omit 
the  chocolate. 

CHARLOTTE  RUSSE. 

Cut  stale  sponge-cake  into  slices  about  half  an  inch  thick 
and  line  three  moulds  with  them,  leaving  a  space  of  half  an 
inch  between  the  slices;  set  the  moulds  where  they  will  not 
be  disturbed  until  the  filling  is  ready;  take  a  deep  tin  pan 
and  fill  about  one-third  full  of  either  snow  or  pounded  ice,  and 
into  this  set  another  pan  that  will  hold  at  least  four  quarts. 
Into  a  deep  bowl  or  pail  (a  whip-churn  is  better)  put  one  and 
a  half  pints  of  cream  (if  the  cream  is  thick  take  one  pint  of 

19 


146 


Desserts. 


cream  and  a  half  pint  milk),  whip  to  a  froth,  and  when  the 
bowl  is  full  skim  the  froth  into  the  pan  which  is  standing  on 
the  ice,  and  repeat  this  until  the  cream  is  all  froth;  then  with 
the  spoon  draw  the  froth  to  one  side,  and  you  will  find  that 
some  of  the  cream  has  gone  back  to  milk;  turn  this  into  the 
bowl  again  and  whip  as  before;  when  the  cream  is  all  whipped 
stir  into  it  two-thirds  cup  powdered  sugar,  one  tea-spoon 
vanilla,  and  half  a  box  of  gelatine,  which  has  been  soaked  in 
cold  water  enough  to  cover  it  for  one  hour,  and  then  dissolved 
in  boiling  water  enough  to  dissolve  it  (about  half  a  cup),  stir 
from  the  bottom  of  the  pan  until  it  begins  to  grow  stiff;  fill 
the  moulds  and  set  them  on  the  ice  in  the  pan  for  one  hour, 
or  until  they  are  sent  to  the  table.  When  ready  to  dish  them, 
loosen  lightly  at  the  sides  and  turn  out  on  a  flat  dish;  have 
the  cream  ice-cold  when  you  begin  to  whip  it,  and  it  is  a  good 
plan  to  put  a  lump  of  ice  into  the  cream  while  whipping  it. 

CHARLOTTE  RUSSE— No.  2— WHITE.— Mrs.  Robert 
Saltsman. 

One  quart  of  cream  whipped  light,  one  ounce  gelatine  dis- 
solved in  two  gills  of  hot  milk,  whites  of  four  eggs  beaten  to  a 
stiff  froth,  one  small  tea-cup  sugar;  flavor  with  almond  or 
vanilla.  Mix  the  cream,  eggs  and  flavoring,  and  beat  the 
gelatine  last.    White  sponge  used  instead  of  yellow. 

CHARLOTTE  RUSSE— No.  3.— Mrs.  Kimball. 

Soak  one  ounce  gelatine  in  a  coffee-cup  of  water  for  ten 
minutes,  strain  it  boiling  hot  into  oue  pint  warm  milk,  with 
the  yolks  of  six  eggs  and  one  tumbler  of  sugar,  made  into  a 
smooth  custard.  Stir  this  constantly  until  cold,  then  pour  it 
into  whipped  cream;  flavor  to  taste.  Three  pints  of  cream 
whipped  into  small  quantities ;  skim  off  the  froth  as  fast  as  it 
rises  into  a  dish  surrounded  with  snow  or  ice;  last  of  all  add 
the  whites  of  six  eggs  beaten  to  a  stiff  froth.  Pour  this  into 
moulds  lined  with  sponge  cake,  and  set  into  a  cool  place ;  let 
the  mixture  be  thoroughly  cool,  stirring  constantly  till  it  is 
poured  into  the  mould. 


Desserts, 


147 


CHARLOTTE  RUSSE—No.  4. 

1  ounce  gelatine,  1  pint  sweet  milk, 

1  pint  cream,  4  eggs, 

Sugar  to  taste. 

Beat  the  sugar  and  yolks  of  eggs  together  until  light,  boil 
the  gelatine  in  the  milk  and  strain  over  the  eggs  and  sugar; 
whip  the  cream,  which  must  be  very  cold,  to  a  nice  froth,  and 
add  to  the  above;  flavor  with  vanilla.  Line  the  dish  you  wish 
to  serve  it  in  with  sponge-cake,  and  pour  the  mixture  in,  then 
set  it  on  ice  till  wanted. 

CHARLOTTE  RUSSE—No.  5.— Mrs.  E.  Scott,  Cleveland. 

This  is  usually  made  in  a  scalloped  oval  tin  mould,  three 
inches  in  depth,  but  a  quarter  tin  pan  can  do  the  duty  for  it. 
Dissolve  one  large  table-spoon  gelatine  in  two-thirds  of  a  tum- 
bler new  milk,  boiling  it  slowly,  having  first  wetted  the  gela- 
tine with  two  table-spoons  cold  water,  and  soak  ten  minutes, 
as  this  makes  it  dissolve  more  readily  in  the  boiling  milk, 
which  can  be  heated  as  the  gelatine  soaks.  Add  to  it  two 
large  table-spoons  white  sugar.  Beat  three  eggs  well,  and 
when  the  gelatine  is  melted  and  the  milk  cooled  enough  not 
to  curdle,  stir  it  carefully.  Add  one  tea-spoon  extract  vanilla 
or  lemon,  then  strain  through  a  sieve.  Cut  sponge  cake  into 
slices  half  an  inch  thick,  and  fit  them  neatly  and  closely  into 
a  dish,  covering  the  bottom  of  it  first.  Beat  up  a  pint  of  thick 
cream  with  the  milk  and  eggs  already  prepared,  until  it  is 
well  frothed.  Do  it  either  with  a  whip-churn  or  egg-beater; 
turn  in  the  beaten  mixture,  cover  with  thin  slices  of  cake, 
and  place  another  pan  over  it.  Set  in  a  cool  place  for  three 
or  four  hours,  or  as  much  longer  as  you  desire,  and  you  will 
have  a  delicious  dish  at  a  cheap  rate. 

BOHEMIAN  CREAMS. — M rs.  Morris,  Pittsburg. 

One  quart  cream,  two  table-spoons  sugar,  one  ounce  gelatine 
soaked  in  water  until  dissolved;  whip  half  the  cream  (rich 
milk  may  be  substituted  for  cream)  to  a  stiff  froth;  boil  the 
other  half  with  the  sugar  and  a  vanilla  bean  until  the  flavor 


i 


148 


Desserts, 


is  extracted  (or  vanilla  extract  may  be  added  just  after  it  is 
removed  from  the  fire),  take  off  the  fire,  add  the  gelatine,  and 
when  cooled  a  little,  stir  in  the  well-beaten  yolks  of  the  four 
eggs.  As  soon  as  it  begins  to  thicken,  stir  steadily  until 
smooth,  when  add  the  whipped  cream,  beating  it  in  lightly. 
Mould  and  set  on  ice  until  ready  to  serve. 

To  flavor  with  strawberries,  strain  two  pounds  berries 
through  a  colauder,  sweeten  to  taste,  add  to  the  dissolved 
gelatine,  set  on  ice,  and  when  it  thickens  stir  smooth,  add  the 
whipped  cream  as  above,  and  mould. 

To  flavor  with  peach,  boil  a  dozen  and  a  half  choice  fruit, 
sweeten  and  strain  through  a  colander:  add  the  dissolved 
gelatine  and  a  tea-cup  of  cream,  set  on  ice,  and  when  it 
thickens  stir  until  smooth,  add  the  whipped  cream  and  mould. 

To  flavor  with  a  pine-apple,  cut  fine,  boil  with  half  a  pound 
pulverized  sugar,  strain  through  a  colander,  add  the  dissolved 
gelatine  and  a  tea-cup  of  cream,  set  on  ice,  and  when  it  thick- 
ens stir  until  smooth,  add  the  whipped  cream,  and  mould. 


Rind  and  juice  of  two  large  lemons,  yolks  of  eight  eggs,  one 
cup  sugar.  Put  all  in  a  small  pail,  put  pail  in  pan  of  boiling 
water,  stir  for  three  minutes,  take  pan  from  fire,  whip  whites 
of  eggs  and  stir  into  custard.  Serve,  when  cold,  in  custard 
glasses.    This  is  nice  for  tea. 


Cover  the  gelatine  with  water  and  let  soak  half  an  hour; 
pour  the  boiling  milk  or  cream,  warmed,  over  the  gelatine, 
then  let  cool  a  little:  when  you  add  the  yolks  of  the  eggs 
beaten  separately,  add  slowly:  then  whip  whites  of  eggs  and 
stir  in  lightly;  season  with  vanilla.  Set  away  to  mould:  eat 
with  cream  and  sugar,  or  a  custard  dressing. 


HAMBURG  CREAM. 


ITALIAN  CREAM .  — Mrs.  H.  Janes. 


1  quart  cream. 
1  ounce  gelatine, 


6  eggs, 

7  cups  sugar. 


Desserts. 


149 


RICE  CREAM. 

Boil  one  pint  new  milk  in  a  custard  kettle,  thicken  to  the 
consistency  of  cream  with  rice  flour,  sweeten  and  flavor,  set  in 
a  cool  place.  Dissolve  half  an  ounce  gelatine  in  half  pint  cold 
water,  set  in  a  warm  place,  and  when  dissolved  beat  to  a  froth 
with  an  egg-beater,  add  the  well-beaten  whites  of  two  eggs, 
sweeten  and  flavor,  pour  in  mould  and  place  on  ice  to  cool ; 
turn  out  on  dish,  and  serve  with  the  rice  cream  around  it. 

ROCK  CREAM. 

Boil  one  cup  rice  in  a  custard-kettle  in  sweet  milk  until 
soft;  add  two  table-spoons  loaf  sugar,  a  salt-spoon  salt;  pour 
into  a  dish  and  place  on  it  lumps  of  jelly;  beat  the  whites  of 
five  eggs  and  three  table-spoons  pulverized  sugar  to  a  stiff 
froth,  flavor  to  taste,  add  one  table-spoon  rich  cream  and  drop 
the  mixture  on  the  rice. 

SPANISH  CREAM, 

One  box  gelatine  dissolved  in  a  pint  of  cold  milk ;  into  two 
quarts  boiling  milk  stir  one  and  a  half  cups  sugar  and  the 
yolks  of  eight  eggs;  pour  all  upon  the  dissolved  gelatine,  stir- 
ring well.  When  cool  add  half  a  pint  wine,  or  flavor  with 
lemon  or  vanilla,  place  iD  dishes  and  cover  with  a  meringue 
made  of  the  beaten  whites,  the  juice  of  one  lemon,  and  one  cup 
sugar;  brown  in  oven  two  minutes  and  eat  ice-cold. 

TAPIOCA  CREAM. — Mrs.  John  M.  Clark,  Meadville. 

Soak  over  night  two  table-spoons  tapioca  in  half  a  tea-cup 
milk  (or  enough  to  cover) ;  bring  one  quart  milk  to  boiling 
point;  beat  well  together  the  yolks  of  three  eggs,  half  tea-cup 
sugar  and  one  tea-spoon  lemon  or  vanilla  for  flavoring,  add 
the  tapioca,  and  stir  the  whole  into  the  boiling  milk,  let  boil 
once,  turn  into  the  dish  and  immediately  spread  on  the  whites. 
Serve  when  cold. 


150 


Desserts. 


BAKED  CUP  CUSTARD. — Old  Fashioned  Way. 

1  quart  milk,  4  eggs, 

1  cup  sugar,  or  sweeten  to  taste,  A  pinch  of  salt. 

Whip  eggs  and  sugar  together,  pour  in  milk,  then  a  little 
salt,  set  in  oven  to  bake.  This  quantity  will  cook  in  half  an 
hour.  Do  not  let  it  stand  too  long,  as  it  will  curdle.  Bake  in 
cups. 

HARD  CUSTARD. 

5  eggs  well  beaten,  reserving    1  quart  milk, 

3  whites  for  meringue,  5  table-spoons  sugar, 

2  tea-spoons  vanilla,  Pinch  of  salt. 

Put  in  a  pudding  dish,  which  place  in  a  pan  of  water  in  the 
oven  and  bake.  When  nearly  baked,  add  a  meringue  made 
with  the  three  whites  and  two  table-spoons  brown  sugar  to 
each  white,  and  any  flavoring.    Bake  a  light  brown. 

LEMON  CUSTARD. — Mrs.  Palmer,  Cleveland. 

Beat  two  yolks  of  eight  eggs  till  they  are  white,  add  pint 
boiling  water,  the  rinds  of  two  lemons  grated,  and  the  juice 
sweetened  to  taste;  stir  this  on  the  fire  till  it  thickens,  then 
add  a  large  glass  of  rich  wine  and  half  glass  brandy  ;  give  the 
whole  a  good  boil,  and  put  in  glasses.    To  be  eaten  cold. 

MILK  CUSTARD. 

Heat  a  quart  of  milk  quite  hot,  that  it  may  not  whey  when 
baked:  let  it  stand  till  cold,  then  mix  with  it  eight  eggs, 
sweeten  with  loaf  sugar,  and  flavor  with  essence  of  lemon  and 
rose  water  or  vanilla.  Fill  your  cups,  set  them  in  an  oven  in 
a  dripping-pan  half  filled  with  boiling  water.  When  the  water 
has  boiled  ten  or  fifteen  minutes  take  out  a  cup,  and  if  the  cus- 
tard is  of  the  consistency  of  jelly  it  is  done.  Cover  the  cups 
in  the  oven  and  they  will  bake  better. 

SNOW  CUSTARD. 

package  gelatine,  3  eggs, 

2  cups  sugar,  Juice  of  one  lemon. 

Soak  the  gelatine  one  hour  in  a  tea-cup  of  cold  water,  add 


Desserts. 


151 


one  pint  boiling  water,  stir  until  thoroughly  dissolved,  add 
two  thirds  the  sugar  and  the  lemon  juice;  beat  the  whites  of 
the  eggs  to  a  stiff  froth,  and  when  the  gelatine  is  quite  cold, 
whip  it  into  the  whites,  a  spoonful  at  a  time,  from  half  an 
hour  to  an  hour.  Whip  steadily  and  evenly,  and  when  all  is 
stiff,  pour  in  a  mould,  or  in  a  dozen  egg-glasses,  previously  wet 
with  cold  water,  and  set  in  a  cold  place.  In  four  or  five 
hours  turn  into  a  glass  dish.  Make  a  custard  of  one  and  a 
half  pints  milk,  yolks  of  eggs,  and  remainder  of  the  sugar, 
flavor  with  vanilla,  and  when  the  meringue  or  snow-balls  are 
turned  out  of  the  mould,  pour  this  around  the  base, 

GELATINE  CUSTARD. 

To  one-third  package  gelatine  add  a  little  less  than  one  pint 
boiling  water;  stir  until  gelatine  is  dissolved,  add  the  juice  of 
one  lemon,  and  one  and  a  half  cups  of  sugar;  strain  through 
a  jelly-strainer  into  a  dish  for  the  table,  and  set  in  a  cool 
place.  For  custard,  to  one  and  a  half  pints  milk  add  the 
yolks  of  four  eggs  (reserving  the  whites),  and  four  table- 
spoons sugar;  cook,  and  flavor  when  cool.  When  required  for 
the  table,  cut  gelatine  into  small  squares,  and  over  them  pour 
the  custard.  Add  four  table-spoons  powdered  sugar  to  the 
whites  of  four  eggs  well  beaten,  and  when  ready  for  the  table 
place  over  the  custard  with  a  spoon. 

SOFT  CUSTARD, 

Two  eggs  to  a  pint  of  milk ;  boil  milk  and  pour  hot  on  eggs 
(well  beaten  previously),  then  return  to  pail;  add  two  table- 
spoons sugar,  and  one  tea-spoon  vanilla;  boil  until  thick. 

HEDCE-HOC — Mrs.  Thomas  Brown. 

|-  cup  almonds  chopped  fine,      1  cup  sugar, 
\  cup  butter,  1  cup  milk, 

2  large  cups  flour,  4  eggs  well  beaten, 

1  tea-spoon  soda  if  sour  milk,  or  3  tea-spoons  baking  powder  if 

sweet  milk. 

Bake  three-quarters  of  an  hour.  Have  almonds  blanched, 
and  when  cake  is  done,  stick  almonds  all  over  top.  Serve 


152 


Desserts. 


with  wine  or  brandy  sauce;  or  instead  of  wine  or  brandy,  use 
vinegar.  This  is  just  delicious.  Or,  bake  cake  in  muffin-cups 
or  gem-irons,  and  you  can  use  cake  for  tea  by  frosting  top  of 
cake. 

JELLY. 

1  box  gelatine.  Juice  of  3  lemons, 

Rind  of  one  lemon,  1  pint  cold  water. 

Allow  this  to  stand  one  hour  and  a  half,  then  add  two  and 
a  half  pints  boiling  water,  two  pounds  crushed  sugar,  one  pint 
wine;  stir  gently  until  the  sugar  is  dissolved,  then  pour  into 
moulds. 

COFFEE  JELLY. 

Half  box  gelatine  soaked  half  an  hour  in  half  a  tea- cup  cold 
water  (as  little  water  as  possible),  one  quart  strong  coffee, 
made  as  if  for  the  table  and  sweetened  to  taste ;  add  the  dis- 
solved gelatine  to  the  hot  coffee,  stir  well,  strain  into  a  mould 
rinsed  with  cold  water,  just  before  using;  set  on  ice  or  in  a 
very  cool  place,  and  serve  with  whipped  cream.  This  jelly  is 
veiy  pretty  formed  in  a  circular  mould  with  tube  in  centre; 
when  turned  out  fill  space  in  centre  with  whipped  cream 
heaped  up  a  little. 

MOONSHINE. 

This  dessert  combines  a  pretty  appearance  with  palatable 
flavor,  and  is  a  convenient  substitute  for  ice  cream.  Beat  the 
whites  of  six  eggs  in  a  broad  plate  to  a  very  stiff  froth,  then 
add  gradually  six  table-spoons  powdered  sugar,  beating  for 
not  less  than  thirty  minutes,  and  then  beat  in  about  one  heap- 
ing table-spoon  preserved  peaches  cut  in  tiny  bits  (or  some 
use  one  cup  jelly).  In  serving,  pour  in  each  saucer  some  rich 
cream  sweetened  and  flavored  with  vanilla,  and  on  the  cream 
place  a  liberal  portion  of  the  moonshine.  This  quantity  is 
enough  for  seven  or  eight  persons. 


Desserts. 


153 


ORANGE  FLOAT. 

One  quart  water,  the  juice  and  pulp  of  two  lemons,  one 
coffee-cup  sugar;  when  boiling  add  four  table-spoons  corn 
starch,  let  boil  fifteen  minutes,  stirring  all  the  time;  when 
cold  pour  it  over  four  or  five  peeled  and  sliced  oranges,  and 
over  the  top  spread  the  beaten  whites  of  three  eggs ;  sweeten 
and  add  a  few  drops  of  vanilla. 

SNOW  FLAKES. 

Grate  a  large  cocoanut  into  a  glass  dish,  and  serve  with 
cream,  preserves,  jellies,  or  jams. 

WHIPS— Made  One  Hundred,  Tears  Ago. 

Boil  one  quart  of  cream  and  let  stand  till  cold;  take  one 
pint  white  wine  and  juice  of  one  lemon,  steep  the  yellow  rind 
one  hour  in  the  wine;  make  it  very  sweet  with  white  sugar; 
put  all  together  and  whip  one  way  until  it  is  quite  thick.  It 
will  keep  two  or  three  days. 


30 


154 


Ices  and  Ice  Creams. 


ICES  AND  ICE  CREAMS. 


Freeze  ice  cream  in  a  warm  place  (the  more  rapid  the  melt- 
ing of  the  ice  the  quicker  the  cream  freezes),  always  being 
careful  that  no  salt  or  water  gets  within  the  freezer.  If  the 
cream  begins  to  melt  while  serving,  beat  up  well  from  the 
bottom  with  a  long  wooden  paddle. 

Water-ices  are  made  from  the  juices  of  fruits,  mixed  with 
water,  sweetened,  and  frozen  like  cream. 

Coffee  ice  cream  should  be  thickened  with  arrowroot;  the 
flavoring  for  almond  cream  should  be  prepared  by  pounding 
the  kernels  to  a  paste  with  rose  water,  using  arrowroot  for 
thickening.  For  cocoanut  cream  grate  cocoanut  and  add  to 
the  cream  and  sugar  just  before  freezing.  The  milk  should 
never  be  heated  for  pine- apple,  strawberry  or  raspbeny  cream. 
Berry  flavors  are  made  best  hy  allowing  whole  berries  to  stand 
for  a  while  well  sprinkled  with  sugar,  mashing,  straining  the 
juice,  adding  sugar  to  it,  and  stirring  it  into  the  cream.  For 
a  quart  of  cream  allow  a  quart  of  fruit  and  a  pound  of  sugar. 
In  addition  to  this  add  whipped  cream  and  sweetened  whole 
berries,  just  as  the  cream  is  beginning  to  set,  in  the  propor- 
tion of  a  cup  of  berries  and  a  pint  of  whipped  cream  to  three 
pints  of  the  frozen  mixture.  Canned  berries  may  be  used  in 
the  same  way.  A  pint  of  berries  or  peaches,  cut  fine,  added 
to  a  quart  of  ordinary  ice  cream,  while  in  process  of  freezing, 
makes  a  delicious  fruit  ice  cream. 

APPLE  ICE. 

Grate,  sweeten  and  freeze  well-flavored  apples,  pears,  peaches 
or  quinces.  Canned  fruit  may  be  mashed  and  prepared  in  the 
same  way. 


Ices  and  Ice  Creams. 


155 


CURRANT  ICE. — Mrs.  H.  G.  Webster,  Danville,  III. 

Boil  clown  three  pints  of  water  and  a  pound  and  a  half  of 
sugar  to  one  quart;  skim,  add  two  cups  of  currant  juice,  and 
when  partly  frozen,  add  the  whites  of  five  eggs, 

LEMON  ICE,  OR  SHERBET, 

1  gallon  water,  4  pounds  sugar, 

Juice  of  12  lemons,  Whites  of  12  eggs,  beaten, 

To  the  water  and  sugar  (if  boiled,  when  cold,)  add  the  juice 
and  the  sliced  rind  of  half  the  lemons;  let  stand  an  hour  or 
two,  then  strain,  freeze,  and  when  half  frozen  add  the  whites. 

LEMON  WATER  ICE. 

Make  a  rich,  sweet  lemonade  and  freeze.  This  may  be 
much  improved  by  adding  the  well  beaten  whites  of  six  eggs 
to  each  quart  of  lemonade. 

ORANGE  ICE. 

Boil  three-quarters  of  a  pound  of  sugar  in  one  quart  water; 
when  cool  add  the  juice  of  six  oranges;  steep  the  rinds  in  a 
little  water,  strain,  and  flavor  to  taste  with  it.  The  juice  and 
rind  of  one  or  two  lemons  added  to  the  orange  is  a  great 
improvement. 

ORANGE  WATER  ICE. 

To  each  quart  of  water  add  the  juice  of  three  or  more 
oranges,  one  pound  of  sugar,  the  grated  rind  of  one  orange, 
and  half  a  lemon,  grated  fine;  also  the  juice  of  one  lemon  to 
every  four  quarts  of  water.  Strain  carefully  into  the  can,  and 
freeze  the  same  as  ice  cream. 

RASPBERRY  OR  STRAWBERRY  WATER  ICE. 

Simmer  one  quart  of  fruit  a  little  with  one  pound  of  sugar, 
and  strain.  When  cool,  stir  into  one  quart  of  water  and 
freeze.  The  well  beaten  whites  of  six  eggs  to  each  quart  of 
water  will  much  improve  it. 


156 


Ices  and  Ice  Creams. 


STRAWBERRY  OR  OTHER  FRUIT  ICED  CUSTARD. 

Make  a  quart  of  rich  boiled  custard;  when  cold  pour  it  on 
a  quart  of  ripe  fruit.  Mash,  pass  through  a  sieve,  sweeten 
and  freeze. 

Fruit  cream  can  be  made  in  great  variety  by  making  the 
freezer  partly  full  of  ice  cream,  and  before  too  stiff,  stir  in 
small  or  large  fruit  cut  down,  viz :  strawberries,  raspberries, 
peaches,  pine-apple,  etc.  The  freezer  can  be  used  for  cooling 
custards,  etc.,  hot  from  the  stove,  in  a  short  time. 

BROWN  ICE  CREAM. 

Melt  one  and  a  half  pounds  brown  sugar  in  an  iron  frying- 
pan,  stirring  it  to  dissolve  thoroughly  and  prevent  burning; 
pour  it  into  one  pint  boiling  milk,  let  cool,  pour  into  three 
quarts  cream  and  freeze. 

CARAMEL  CREAM. 

Have  on  the  fire  in  a  pan  one  pound  of  maple  sugar ;  let  it 
boil  two  or  three  times,  sufficient  to  brown  but  not  to  burn  it. 
Beat  six  eggs  and  one  pound  of  white  sugar  very  light;  stir 
this  into  two  quarts  of  boiling  milk,  and  stir  constantly  until 
it  comes  to  a  boil;  then  pour  in  the  boiling  sugar,  and  mix 
thoroughly.  When  perfectly  cold,  add  one  quart  of  cream, 
sweetened  with  a  cup  of  white  sugar.  Put  in  a  freezer  and 
freeze  the  same  as  ice  cream. 

CHOCOLATE  ICE  CREAM. 

Scald  one  pint  new  milk,  add  b}-  degrees  three-quarters  of  a 
pound  sugar,  two  eggs  and  five  table-spoons  chocolate,  rubbed 
smooth  in  a  little  milk.  Beat  well  for  a  moment  or  two,  place 
over  the  fire  and  heat  until  it  thickens  well,  stirring  con-' 
stantly;  set  off,  add  a  table-spoon  of  thin  dissolved  gelatine, 
when  cold  place  in  freezer;  when  it  begins  to  set,  add  a  quart 
of  rich  cream,  half  of  it  well  whipped. 

To  make  a  mould  of  chocolate  and  vanilla,  freeze  in  separate 
freezers,  divide  a  mould  through  the  centre  with  card-board, 


Ices  and  Ice  Creams. 


157 


fill  each  division  with  a  different  cream,  and  set  mould  in  ice 
and  salt  for  an  hour  or  more. 

To  make  chocolate  fruit  ice  cream,  when  almost  frozen,  add 
a  coffee-cup  of  preserved  peaches,  or  any  other  preserves,  cut 
in  fine  pieces. 

LEMON  ICE  CEEAM. 

Squeeze  a  dozen  lemons,  make  a  juice  quite  thick  with  white 
sugar;  stir  into  it  very  slowly  three  quarts  of  cream,  and 
freeze.  Orange  ice  cream  is  prepared  in  the  same  way,  using 
less  sugar. 

LEMON  ICE  CEEAM— No.  2. 

To  each  quart  of  cream  add  the  juice  and  grated  rind  of  one 
lemon,  or  a  tea-spoon  of  lemon  extract.  Sweeten  very  sweet 
and  freeze. 

OUR  ICE  CEEAM. 

2  quarts  good  sweet  cream,       1  pound  granulated  sugar, 
Vanilla  to  taste. 

Dissolve  the  sugar  well  in  the  cream,  then  put  extract  in, 
strain  well  and  pour  in  freezer.  Sometimes  we  dissolve  a 
small  cake  of  sweet  chocolate  and  whip  well  into  the  cream, 
strain  and  freeze.  Strawberries  jammed  and  strained  into  the 
cream  after  it  has  been  chilled,  are  just  delicious.  Bananas, 
cut  in  small  pieces  and  whipped  in  are  very  nice.  So  are 
peaches;  in  fact,  we  have  used  all  kinds  of  fruit  in  this  way, 
and  they  make  delicious  desserts. 

PINE-APPLE  ICE  CEEAM— No.  1. 

3  pints  cream,  2  large,  ripe  pine-apples, 
2  pounds  powdered  sugar. 

Slice  the  pine-apples  thin,  scatter  the  sugar  between  the 
slices,  cover  up  and  let  the  fruit  stand  three  hours,  cut  or  chop 
it  up  in  the  syrup,  and  strain  through  a  hair  sieve  or  double 
bag  of  coarse  lace;  beat  gradually  into  the  cream,  and  freeze 
as  rapidly  as  possible;  reserve  a  few  pieces  of  pine-apple 
unsugared,  cut  into  square  bits,  and  stir  through  cream  when 
half  frozen,  first  a  pint  of  well-whipped  cream,  and  then  the 
fruit.    Peach  ice  cream  may  be  made  in  the  same  way. 


158 


Ices  and  Ice  Creams, 


PINE- APPLE  ICE  CREAM — No.  2. 

To  each  quart  of  cream  add  the  juice  of  one  quarter  of  a 
good  pine-apple,  which  should  be  previously  cut  up,  sprinkled 
with  sugar  and  strained.    Sweeten  very  sweet  and  freeze. 

PLAIN  ICE  CREAM. 

Take  any  quantity  of  cream  that  you  wish,  make  it  very 
sweet,  flavor  to  taste,  and  freeze. 

STRAWBERRY  ICE  CREAM. 

Prepare  milk  as  for  any  ice  cream,  omitting  the  flavoring; 
sweeten  berries  as  for  the  table,  mash,  and  add  to  the  milk, 
one  quart  berries  to  each  gallon  of  milk,  stir  all  together, 
strain  through  a  close  wire  strainer,  and  freeze. 

TEA  ICE  CREAM. 

Pour  over  four  table-spoons  Old  Efyson  tea  a  pint  of  cream, 
scald  in  a  custard  kettle,  or  by  placing  the  dish  containing  it 
in  a  kettle  of  boiling  water,  remove  from  the  fire  and  let  stand 
five  minutes ;  strain  it  into  a  pint  of  cold  cream,  put  on  to 
scald  again,  and  when  hot,  mix  with  it  four  eggs  and  three- 
fourths  of  a  pound  of  sugar,  well  beaten  together;  let  cool  and 
freeze. 

STRAWBERRY  OR  RASPBERRY  ICE  CREAM. 

The  same  as  vanilla  (No.  1);  substitute  the  fruit,  which 
should  be  first  mashed  and  strained  through  a  fine  net. 

VANILLA  ICE  CREAM— No.  1. 

To  each  quart  of  cream  add  one-fourth  of  a  vanilla  bean, 
previously  cut  into  small  pieces  and  boiled  in  a  small  quantity* 
of  cream  or  milk  and  strained.  If  preferred,  substitute  one 
tea-spoon  extract  vanilla.    Sweeten  very  sweet  and  freeze. 

VANILLA  ICE  CREAM— No.  2. 
Te  each  quart  of  rich  milk  add  two  eggs,  well  beaten,  and  a 
tea-spoon  corn  starch;  sweeten  very  sweet;  cook  it  well  with- 
out boiling.    When  cold  stir  in  a  tea-spoon  vanilla  extract 
and  freeze. 


Preserves,  Jellies  and  Jams. 


159 


PRESERVES,  JELLIES  AND  JAMS. 


Preserves,  to  be  perfect,  must  be  made  with  the  greatest 
care.  Economy  of  time  and  trouble  is  a  waste  of  fruit  and 
sugar.  The  best  are  made  by  putting  only  a  small  amount  of 
fruit  at  a  time  in  the  syrup,  after  the  latter  has  been  carefully 
prepared  and  clarified,  and  the  fruit  neatly  pared.  It  is  diffi- 
cult to  watch  a  large  quantity  so  as  to  insure  its  being  done  to 
a  turn. 

The  old  rule  is  "pound  of  sugar  to  a  pound  of  fruit,"  but 
since  the  introduction  of  cans  three-quarters  of  a  pound  of 
sugar  to  a  pound  of  fruit  is  sufficient,  and  even  less  is  some- 
times used,  the  necessity  for  an  excess  of  sugar  having  passed 
away,  as  preserves  may  be  less  sweet,  with  no  risk  of  fermen- 
tation, if  sealed.  Either  tin  or  glass  may  be  used,  care  being 
taken  to  make  the  sealing  perfectly  air-tight. 

Dried  fruits  are  much  better,  and  require  less  boiling,  if 
clean,  soft  water  in  poured  over  them  and  allowed  to  stand 
over  night.  In  the  morning  boil  until  tender  in  the  water, 
sweetening  five  minutes  before  removing  from  the  stove. 

In  making  jams,  the  fruit  should  be  carefully  cleaned  and 
thoroughly  bruised,  as  mashing  it  before  cooking  prevents  it 
from  becoming  hard.  Boil  fifteen  or  twenty  minutes  before 
adding  the  sugar,  as  the  flavor  of  the  fruit  is  thus  better  pre- 
served, (usually  allowing  three  quarters  of  a  pound  of  sugar  to 
a  pound  of  fruit),  and  then  boil  half  an  hour  longer.  Jams 
require  almost  constant  stirring,  and  every  housekeeper  should 
be  provided  with  a  small  paddle  with  handle  at  right  angles 
with  the  blade  (similar  to  an  apple-butter  "stirrer,"  only 
smaller),  to  be  used  in  making  jams  and  marmalades. 


160 


Preserves,  Jellies  and  Jams. 


APRICOT  JAM..- Mrs.  D.  Long. 

Get  some  of  the  ripest  apricots  you  can  find,  pare  and  cut 
them  thin,  and  then  infuse  or  steam  until  tender.  To  every 
pound  and  a  half  of  apricots  take  one  pound  good  white  sugar 
and  three  spoons  water;  boil  the  sugar,  then  drop  in  the  fruit, 
let  cook  till  clear,  then  put  away  in  jars. 

BRANDY  PEACHES. 

To  six  pounds  peaches  add  four  pounds  sugar  and  one 
quart  white  brandy.  Pack  the  peaches  in  a  jar  with  the  sugar 
and  pour  the  brandy  over  them.    They  will  keep  for  years. 

CALVES'  FOOT  JELLY. 

Take  two  calf's  feet  and  add  to  them  one  gallon  of  water, 
which  reduce  by  boiling  to  one  quart.  Strain  it,  and  when 
cold,  skim  the  fat  entirely  off.  Add  to  this  the  whites  of  six 
eggs  well  beaten,  a  pint  of  wine,  and  half  a  pound  of  loaf 
sugar;  add  the  juice  of  four  lemons,  and  let  them  be  well 
mixed.  Boil  the  whole  for  a  few  moments,  stirring  constantly, 
and  then  pass  it  through  a  flannel  strainer.  This  forms  a  ver}^ 
nutritious  article  of  diet  for  the  sick  and  convalescent.  The 
wine  may  be  omitted  or  added  to  at  option. 

CHERRY  PRESERVES. 

Choose  sour  ones — the  early  Richmond  is  good — seed  nearly 
all,  allow  an  amount  of  sugar  equal  to  the  fruit;  take  half  the 
sugar,  sprinkle  over  the  fruit,  let  it  stand  about  an  hour,  pour 
into  a  preserving  kettle,  boil  slowly  ten  minutes,  skim  out  the 
cherries,  add  rest  of  sugar  to  the  syrup,  boil,  skim,  and  pour 
over  the  cherries;  the  next  day  drain  off  the  syrup,  boil,  skim, 
if  necessary,  add  the  cherries,  boil  twenty  minutes,  and  seal 
up  in  small  jars. 

CITRON  PRESERVES. 

Pare  off  rind,  seed,  cut  in  thin  slices  two  inches  long,  weigh 
and  put  in  preserving  kettle  with  water  enough  to  cover;  boil 
one  hour,  take  out  the  melon,  and  to  the  water  in  kettle  add 


Preserves,  Jellies  and  Jams. 


161 


as  much  sugar  as  there  is  melon  by  weight,  boil  until  quite 
thick,  replace  melon,  add  two  sliced  lemons  to  each  pound  of 
fruit,  boil  twenty  minutes,  take  out,  boil  syrup  until  it  is  very 
thick  molasses,  and  pour  over  the  fruit. 

CRAB  APPLE  JELLY. 

Wash  and  quarter  large  Siberian  crabs,  but  do  not  core; 
cover  to  the  depth  of  an  inch  or  two  with  cold  water,  and 
cook  to  a  mush;  pour  into  a  coarse  cotton  bag  or  strainer, 
and  when  cool  enough,  press  or  squeeze  hard,  to  extract  all 
the  juice.  Take  a  piece  of  fine  swiss  muslin  or  crinoline, 
wring  out  of  water,  spread  over  a  colander  placed  over  a 
crock,  and  with  a  cup  clip  the  juice  slowly  in,  allowing  plenty 
of  time  to  run  through;  repeat  this  process  twice,  rinsing  out 
the  muslin  frequently.  Allow  the  strained  juice  of  four 
lemons  to  a  peck  of  apples,  and  three-quarters  of  a  pound  of 
sugar  to  each  pint  of  juice.  Boil  the  juice  from  ten  to  twenty 
minutes;  while  boiling  sift  in  the  sugar  slowly,  stirring  con- 
stantly, and  boil  five  minutes  longer.  This  is  generally  suffi- 
cient, but  it  is  always  safer  to  "try  it,"  and  ascertain  whether 
it  will  "jelly."    This  makes  a  very  clear,  sparkling  jelly. 

CRANBERRY  JELLY. 

Prepare  juice  as  in  general  directions,  add  one  pound  sugar 
to  every  pint,  boil  and  skim,  test  by  dropping  a  little  into  cold 
water  (when  it  does  not  mingle  with  the  water  it  is  done), 
rinse  glasses  in  cold  water  before  pouring  in  the  jelly,  to  pre- 
vent sticking.  The  pulp  may  be  sweetened  and  used  for 
sauce. 

CURRANT  JELLY — Black,  Bed,  or  White 

Let  fruit  be  very  ripe  and  picked  clean  from  stems ;  bruise 
and  strain,  and  to  every  pint  of  juice  add  one  pound  of  sugar. 
All  jellies  are  made  in  this  way. 

21 


162 


Preserves,  Jellies  and  Jams. 


PRESERVED  CITRON. 

Boil  the  citron  in  water  until  it  is  clear  and  soft  enough  to 
be  easily  pierced  with  a  fork ;  take  out  and  put  into  a  nice 
syrup  of  sugar  and  water,  and  boil  until  the  sugar  has  pene- 
trated it.  Take  out  and  spread  on  dishes  to  dry  slowly, 
sprinkling  several  times  with  powdered  sugar,  and  turning 
until  it  is  dried  enough.  Pack  in  jars  or  boxes,  with  sugar 
between  the  layers. 

ALL  KINDS  OF  BERRY  AND  CURRANT  JAMS. 

Pick  fruit  over  carefully,  jam,  and  to  every  pint  of  fruit 
after  being  jammed,  take  half  a  pint  of  sugar;  cook  until  it 
will  not  run  on  dish  ;  stir  all  the  time  while  cooking. 

CURRANT  JELLY. 

Strip  your  currants  off  the  stem,  and  put  them  into  a  stone 
jar;  set  the  jar  into  a  pot  of  water,  let  the  water  boil  around 
the  jar  until  the  juice  is  extracted  from  the  currants,  then 
strain  the  juice  through  a  coarse  muslin  bag.  To  one  pint  of 
juice  put  one  pound  sugar;  when  dissolved  let  it  boil,  and 
skim  it;  when  it  stiffens  take  it  off.  Boil  it  for  about  twenty 
minutes. 

RED  CURRANT  JELLY. 

Wash  the  currants  and  drain  them,  mash  them  with  the 
back  of  a  spoon,  put  them  in  a  jelly  bag  and  squeeze  it  till  all 
the  juice  is  pressed  out;  to  every  pint  of  juice  allow  a  pound 
of  loaf  sugar;  put  the  juice  and  the  sugar  into  a  kettle  and 
boil  them  twenty  minutes,  skimming  all  the  while;  pour  it 
warm  into  glasses,  and  when  cold  tie  it  up  with  brandy  paper. 
Jellies  should  never  be  allowed  to  get  cold  in  the  kettle.  If 
boiled  too  long  they  will  lose  their  flavor  and  become  of  a  dark 
color.  Strawberry,  raspberry,  blackberry,  and  grape  jelly  may 
be  made  in  the  same  manner,  and  with  the  same  proportion 
of  loaf  sugar. 


Preserves,  Jellies  and  Jams. 


163 


EGG  BUTTER. 

Boil  a  pint  of  molasses  slowly  about  fifteen  or  twenty  min- 
utes, stirring  to  prevent  burning;  add  three  eggs  well  beaten, 
stirring  them  in  as  fast  as  possible,  boil  a  few  minutes  longer, 
partially  cool,  and  flavor  to  taste  with  lemon. 

FIG  PRESERVES. 

Gather  fruit  when  fully  ripe,  but  not  cracked  open ;  place 
in  a  perforated  tin  bucket  or  wire  basket,  and  dip  for  a 
moment  into  a  deep  kettle  of  hot  and  moderately  strong  lye, 
(some  prefer  letting  them  lie  an  hour  in  lime  water  and  after- 
wards drain);  make  the  syrup  in  proportion  of  one  pound  of 
sugar  to  one  of  fruit,  and  when  the  figs  are  well  drained,  put 
them  in  syrup  and  boil  until  well  cooked;  remove,  boil  syrup 
down  until  there  is  just  enough  to  cover  fruit,  put  fruit  back 
in  syrup,  let  all  boil,  and  seal  up,  while  hot,  in  glass  or  porce- 
lain jars. 

ISINGLASS  JELLY. 

2  ounces  isinglass,  5  pints  water, 

1-J  pounds  sugar,  Whites  3  eggs  well  beaten. 

Season  highly  with  cinnamon,  orange  peel,  mace  and  good 
brandy;  after  dissolving  isinglass  and  adding  spices,  let  boil 
fifteen  minutes,  strain  through  flannel  bag,  and  when  nearly 
cool  add  the  brandy. 

JELLIES  WITHOUT  FRUIT. 

Dissolve  one-fourth  pound  gelatine  in  one  and  a  half  pints 
water,  then  add  one-fourth  ounce  pulverized  alum  and  four 
pounds  brown  or  white  sugar;  boil  eight  minutes,  and  when 
nearly  cool  flavor  with  two  ounces  of  extract  of  any  flavor  you 
may  desire. 

LEMON  BUTTER, 

Juice  and  grated  rind  of  one  lemon,  tea-cup  white  sugar, 
yolks  of  two  eggs,  butter  the  size  of  two  eggs ;  boil  ten  min- 
utes. This  can  be  made  up  in  quantity,  kept  for  a  long  time 
in  bottles  or  jars,  and  used  as  needed  for  filling  tarts,  etc. 


16-4 


Preserves;  Jellies  and  Jams. 


LEMON  JELLY, 

Three  good-sized  lemons  sliced,  half  a  pound  white  sugar; 
two  ounces  isinglass  or  gelatine  dissolved  in  two  quarts  cold 
water,  a  stick  of  cinnamon,  and  a  little  grated  nutmeg.  Beat 
the  whites  of  three  or  four  eggs,  and  when  the  gelatine  is  all 
dissolved  stir  them  well  with  the  other  ingredients ;  boil  five 
minutes,  strain  through  a  flannel  jelly-bag  into  moulds  and 
set  on  ice;  or  the  eggs,  cinnamon  and  nutmeg  may  be  omitted. 

LEMON  JELLY— No.  2. 

Grated  rind  and  juice  of  one    1  egg  and  yolk  of  another, 
lemon,  Small  piece  of  butter, 

Scant  tea-cup  sugar,  1  table-spoon  water. 

Beat  all  together,  and  boil  till  thick. 

ORANGE  JELLY — Made  from  Calves'  Foot  Stock. 

4  calf 's  feet,  2  pounds  loaf  sugar, 

Juice  of  6  lemons,  12  oranges,  rinds  of  8, 

Whites  of  3  eggs. 

To  the  stock  produced  add  the  sugar,  juice  of  lemons,  the 
rinds  of  eight  and  juice  of  twelve  oranges.  When  you  stir  in 
the  whipped  whites  of  eggs  set  where  it  will  simmer  slowly 
until  the  eggs  set.  Put  in  a  few  drops  of  cochineal,  and  pour 
through  a  bag  into  a  mould. 

ORANGE  JELLY. 

2  quarts  water,  4  ounces  gelatine, 

9  oranges,  3  lemons, 

1  pound  sugar,  Whites  of  3  eggs. 

Soak  gelatine  in  a  pint  of  water,  boil  the  three  pints  water 
and  sugar  together,  skim  well,  dissolve  gelatine,  orange  and 
lemon  juice,  and  beaten  whites;  let  come  to  a  boil,  skim  off 
carefully  all  scum,  boil  until  it  jellies,  and  pour  into  moulds. 
Strain  scum  and  add  to  mould. 

ORANGE  MARMALADE. 

Take  equal  weights  of  oranges  and  granulated  sugar;  quar- 
ter and  peel  the  oranges,  removing  carefully  the  thick  inner 


Preserves,  Jellies  and  Jams.  165 


skin  from  the  peel,  boil  in  clear  water  until  tender,  changing 
the  water  once,  and  renew  with  hot.  This  takes  off  some  of 
the  rank,  bitter  taste.  Prepare  the  pulp  by  dividing,  removing 
the  seeds  and  white  stringy  parts,  and  cutting  fine;  when  the 
peel  is  done  (so  as  to  be  easily  pierced  with  a  broom-straw), 
drain  for  a  few  moments  in  a  colander,  and  cut  in  fine  shreds 
with  a  sharp  knife  or  pair  of  scissors;  place  the  palps  to  boil 
with  a  little  water,  and  after  it  has  boiled  a  few  moments,  add 
the  sugar  and  shredded  peel,  and  boil  twenty  minutes  longer, 
stirring  often  and  watching  carefully  to  prevent  burning. 
Put  up  in  small  jars  with  one  paper  pressed  down  on  the  fruit 
and  another  tied  closely  over  top  of  jar;  or  use  jelly  glasses. 

PEACH  BUTTER  WITH  CIDER. 

One  peck  of  peaches,  two  quarts  boiled  cider;  cook  peaches 
soft,  strain;  have  cider  in  kettle,  put  in  strained  fruit,  stir 
well;  cook  down  thick. 

Apple-butter  is  done  in  the  same  way,  using  part  sour  and 
part  sweet  apples. 

PEACH  BUTTER  OR  MARMALADE. 

Pare  peaches,  let  cook  in  a  little  water,  when  soft  put 
through  a  colander  and  then  through  a  sieve,  then  take  to  one 
pint  of  the  fruit,  after  it  has  been  strained,  half  a  pint  of 
sugar,  put  on  stove  and  stir  all  the  time  while  cooking.  Seal. 

PEACH  PRESERVES. 

Pare  and  halve  your  peaches,  and  to  every  pound  of  fruit 
take  three-fourths  pound  sugar;  let  sugar  come  to  a  boil, 
skim ;  drop  a  few  peaches  in  at  a  time,  let  boil  until  they  look 
clear;  fill  glass  jar;  let  syrup  boil  down  a  little,  then  fill  jar. 
Peach  pits  improve  the  flavor.  Canned  peaches  are  done  just 
the  same  way,  only  taking  one-fourth  pound  sugar. 

PEAR  PRESERVES. 

Pare,  cut  in  halves,  core  and  weigh  (if  hard,  boil  in  water 
until  tender,  and  use  the  water  for  the  syrup),  allow  three- 


166 


Preserves,  Jellies  and  Jams, 


quarters  of  a  pound  sugar  for  each  pound  fruit,  boil  for  a  few 
moments,  skim,  and  cool;  when  lukewarm  add  the  pears  and 
boil  gently  until  the  syrup  has  penetrated  them  and  they  look 
clear;  some  of  the  pieces  will  cook  before  the  rest  and  must 
be  removed;  when  done  take  out,  boil  down  the  syrup  a  little 
and  pour  over  them. 

PEACHES  SPICED. 

To  seven  pounds  of  peaches,  take  three  pounds  sugar,  one 
cup  cider  vinegar,  ten  cents'  worth  of  cinnamon,  and  two  cents' 
worth  of  cloves  tied  up  in  thin  cloth ;  heat  all  together  and 
pour  boiling  hot  over  peaches;  do  this  three  times,  the  last 
time  boil  down.    Seal  them  air-tight,  as  they  keep  nicer. 

PLUM  PRESERVES. 

Allow  equal  weights  sugar  and  plums;  add  sufficient  water 
to  the  sugar  to  make  a  thick  syrup,  boil,  skim,  and  pour  over 
the  plums  (previously  washed,  pricked  and  placed  in  a  stone 
jar),  and  cover  with  a  plate.  The  next  day  drain  off  syrup, 
boil,  skim,  and  pour  in  over  plums ;  repeat  this  for  three  or 
four  days,  place  plums  and  syrup  in  a  preserving  kettle,  and 
boil  very  slowly  for  half  an  hour.  Put  up  in  stone  jars,  cover 
with  papers  like  jellies,  or  seal  in  cans. 

PLUM  MARMALADE. 

Rub  the  plums  through  the  colander,  add  a  pint  of  sugar  to 
a  pint  of  pulp,  and  boil  half  an  hour,  stirring  all  the  time;  put 
in  small  jars  and  cover  as  directed  for  jelly. 

Any  variety  of  crab-apples  majT  be  prepared  as  above, 
adding  to  the  marmalade  a  small  piece  of  ginger  root  broken 
in  bits.  Or,  add  one-third  pint  sugar  to  one  pint  pulp,  boil 
three-quarters  of  an  hour,  seal  in  fruit  jars  and  use  for  pies, 
adding  milk,  eggs  and  sugar,  as  for  pumpkin  or  squash  pies. 

QUINCE  OR  APPLE  PRESERVES. 

Take  equal  weight  of  quinces  and  sugar,  pare,  core,  leave 
whole  or  cut  up,  as  preferred,  boil  till  tender  in  water  enough 
to  cover,  carefully  take  out  and  put  on  platter,  add  sugar  to 


Preserves,  Jellies  and  Jams, 


167 


the  water,  replace  fruit  and  boil  slowly  till  clear,  place  in  jars 
and  pour  syrup  over  them.  To  increase  the  quantity  without 
adding  sugar,  take  half  or  two  thirds  in  weight  as  many  fair, 
sweet  apples  as  there  are  quinces,  pare,  quarter  and  core; 
after  removing  quinces,  put  apples  into  the  syrup,  and  boil 
until  they  begin  to  look  red  and  clear,  and  are  tender,  place 
quinces  and  apples  iu  jar  in  alternate  layers,  and  cover  with 
syrup.  For  the  use  of  parings  and  cores,  see  "Quince  Jelly." 
Apples  alone  may  be  preserved  in  the  same  way. 

QUINCE  JELLY. 

Rub  the  quinces  with  a  cloth  until  perfectly  smooth,  cut  in 
small  pieces,  pack  tight  in  kettle,  pour  on  cold  water  until 
level  with  the  fruit,  boil  until  very  soft;  make  a  three-cornered 
flannel  bag,  pour  in  fruit  and  hang  up  to  drain,  occasionally 
pressing  on  the  top  and  sides  to  make  the  juice  run  more 
freely,  taking  care  not  to  press  hard  enough  to  expel  the  pulp. 
There  is  not  so  much  need  of  pressing  a  bag  made  in  this 
shape,  as  the  weight  of  the  fruit  in  the  larger  part  of  the  bag 
causes  the  juice  to  flow  freely  at  the  point.  To  a  pint  of  juice 
add  a  pint  of  sugar  aud  boil  fifteen  minutes,  or  until  it  is  jelly; 
pour  into  tumblers  or  bowls,  and  finish  according  to  general 
directions. 

If  quinces  are  scarce,  the  parings  and  cores  of  quinces,  with 
good  tart  apples,  boiled  and  strained  as  above,  make  excellent 
jelly,  and  the  quinces  are  saved  for  preserves. 

RASPBERRY  JAM— No.  1. 

Weigh  equal  quantities  of  fruit  and  sugar;  put  the  fruit 
into  a  preserving  kettle,  boil  and  mash  it,  let  it  boil  very 
quickly,  and  stir  constantly;  add  the  sugar  and  boil  half  an 
hour.  Jam  made  in  this  way  is  of  a  finer  color  than  when  the 
sugar  is  put  in  first. 

RASPBERRY  JAM— No.  2.— Mrs.  Craig,  Danville. 

Let  the  raspberries  be  quite  ripe  and  dry ;  mash  them  fine, 
and  to  one  pint  of  fruit  add  half  a  pint  of  sugar ;  let  boil  half 
an  hour,  stirring  all  the  time. 


168 


Preserves,  Jellies  and  Jams. 


STRAWBERRY  JAM. — Mrs.  McK. 

Bruise  some  strawberries  fine  and  to  every  pint  of  fruit  add 
two-thirds  of  a  pint  of  sugar;  boil  half  an  hour;  put  in  jars. 

All  jams  are  made  in  the  same  manner;  add  to  every  pint 
of  fruit  one-half  pint  of  sugar — that  is,  after  the  fruit  is 
jammed. 

STAWBERRY  PRESERVES. 

To  one  quart  of  strawberries  put  one  pound  of  sugar;  put  a 
little  of  the  sugar  in  the  bottom  of  the  kettle,  and  one  table- 
spoon water,  then  a  layer  of  strawberries,  and  then  of  sugar, 
until  all  are  in.  Put  them  on  a  slow  fire,  shaking  them  every 
now  and  then,  until  the  syrup  is  drawn.  Let  them  boil  for 
half  an  hour;  put  them  immediately  into  the  jars  and  seal 
them  up  tight.    Set  them  in  the  sun  for  a  few  days. 

Raspberries,  blackberries,  and  huckleberries  are  preserved 
in  the  same  way.  Some  take  a  little  longer  to  cook  than 
others. 

WINE  JELLY. 

Dissolve  one  pint  gelatine  in  one  pint  of  cold  water,  with  the 
juice  and  rind  of  two  lemons,  and  half  an  ounce  of  stick  cinna- 
mon if  you  wish  ;  soak  three-quarters  of  an  hour,  pour  upon  it 
three  pints  boiling  water  and  one  pint  sherry,  add  four  coffee- 
cups  sugar,  and  strain  through  flannel  into  moulds. 


Canning  Fruits. 


169 


CANNING  FRUITS. 


The  line  display  of  canned  fruits  at  the  Centennial  Exhi- 
bition was  prepared  as  follows :  The  fruits  were  selected  with 
great  care,  of  uniform  size  and  shape,  and  all  perfect.  They 
were  carefully  peeled  with  a  thin,  sharp,  silver  fruit-knife, 
which  did  not  discolor  them,  and  immediately  plunged  into 
cold  water  in  an  earthen  or  wooden  vessel  to  prevent  the  air 
from  darkening  them.  As  soon  as  enough  for  one  can  was 
prepared,  it  was  put  up  by  laying  the  fruit  piece  by  piece  in 
the  can,  and  pouring  syrup,  clear  as  crystal,  over  it,  and  then, 
after  subjecting  the  whole  to  the  usual  heat,  sealing  up. 

All  kinds  of  fruit  can  be  canned  by  using  one-fourth  pound 
of  sugar  to  the  pound  of  fruit.  For  preserves  we  take  one 
pound  of  sugar  to  one  pound  of  fruit.  Seal  all  kinds  of  pre- 
serves, and  you  will  have  no  trouble  with  them  in  hot  weather. 

BERRIES — PLAIN. 

Pick  out  stems  or  hulls,  if  any — if  gathered  carefully  the 
berries  will  not  need  washing — put  in  porcelain  kettle  on  the 
stove,  adding  a  small  tea-cup  water  to  prevent  burning  at  first. 
When  they  come  to  a  boil,  skim  well,  add  sugar  to  taste  (for 
pies  it  maybe  omitted),  let  boil  five  minutes,  fill  in  glass, 
stone,  or  tin  cans,  and  seal  with  putty,  unless  self-sealers  are 
used.  This  rule  applies  to  raspberries,  blackberries,  currants, 
gooseberries,  or  any  of  the  small  berries. 

PEACHES, 

Have  one  porcelain  kettle  with  boiling  water,  and  another 
with  a  syrup  made  sweet  enough  with  white  sugar  for  the 
peaches;  pare,  halve  and  drop  them  into  the  boiling  water,  let 

22 


170 


Canning  Fruits. 


them  remain  until  a  silver  fork  will  pierce  them,  lift  them  out 
with  a  wire  spoon,  fill  can,  pour  in  all  the  boiling  syrup  the 
can  will  hold,  and  seal  immediately.  Continue  in  this  way, 
preparing  and  sealing  only  one  can  at  a  time,  until  done;  boil 
down  the  water  in  first  kettle  with  the  syrup,  if  any  is  left;  if 
not  add  more  sugar,  and  quite  a  nice  marmalade  will  result. 
This  manner  of  canning  peaches  has  been  thoroughly  tested, 
and  is  pronounced  by  the  experienced  the  best  of  all  methods. 

PEARS. 

Pare,  cut  in  two  and  core  Bartlett  pears;  take  half  pound 
granulated  sugar  for  each  pound  of  fruit;  set  sugar  on  the  fire 
with  a  little  water;  when  boiling  drop  pears  in  and  let  cook 
about  half  an  hour,  put  into  jars,  let  syrup  boil  down  thick  as 
drips,  pour  over  fruit,  and  seal.    They  will  keep  for  years. 

Peaches  are  done  in  the  same  way.  Pare  all  fruit  with  a 
silver  knife. 

Quinces  have  to  be  boiled  in  a  little  clear  water  before  being 
put  into  boiling  syrup,  which  would  otherwise  toughen  them. 

Preserved  plums  are  done  in  the  same  manner,  only  take  one 
pound  of  sugar  to  one  pound  of  fruit. 

STRAWBERRIES. 

Fill  glass  jars  with  fresh,  whole  strawberries,  sprinkled  with 
sugar  in  the  proportion  of  half  pound  of  sugar  to  a  pound  of 
berries,  lay  covers  on  lightly,  stand  them  in  a  wash-boiler 
filled  with  water  to  within  an  inch  of  tops  of  cans  (the  water 
must  not  be  more  than  milk-warm  when  the  cans  are  placed  in 
it).  When  it  has  boiled  for  fifteen  minutes,  draw  to  back  of 
stove,  let  steam  pass  off,  roll  the  hand  in  a  towel,  lift  out  cans 
and  place  on  a  table.  If  the  berries  are  well  covered  with  their 
own  juice,  take  a  table-spoon  and  fill  up  the  first  jar  to  the 
very  top  of  the  rim  from  the  second,  wipe  the  neck,  rub  dry, 
and  screw  the  top  down  firmly,  observing  carefully  the  general 
directions  for  canning  berries.  Fill  another  from  the  second, 
can,  and^so  on  until  all  are  finished. 


Canning  Fruits. 


171 


TOMATOES. 

The  tomatoes  must  be  entirely  fresh  and  not  over-ripe;  pour 
over  them  boiling  water,  let  stand  a  few  minutes,  drain  off, 
remove  the  skins  and  slice  crosswise  into  a  stone  jar,  cutting- 
out  all  the  hard  or  defective  portions ;  cook  for  a  few  minutes 
in  their  own  juice,  skimming  off  the  scum  which  rises,  and 
stirring  with  a  wooden  spoon  or  paddle;  have  the  cans  on  the 
hearth  filled  with  hot  water;  empty,  and  fill  with  the  hot 
tomatoes ;  wipe  the  moisture  from  the  tops  with  a  soft  cloth, 
and  put  on  and  secure  the  covers.  If  tin  cans  are  used,  press 
down  the  covers  and  pour  hot  sealing  wax  into  the  grooves. 
If  put  up  in  glass  jars,  set  away  in  a  dark  place.  Either  tin, 
glass  or  stone  cans  may  be  used,  and  all  may  be  sealed  with 
putty  instead  of  wax,  it  being  much  neater  and  more  conve- 
nient.   See  general  instructions  for  canning  fruit. 

The  following  additional  directions  will  be  found  convenient 
for  reference,  and  reliable: 

Cherries,  boil  5  minutes ;  6  ounces  sugar  to  pound  of  fruit. 
Raspberries,  boil  6  minutes;  4  ounces  sugar  to  pound  of  fruit. 
Blackberries,  boil  10  minutes ;  4  ounces  sugar  to  pound  of  fruit. 
Peaches,  boil  8  minutes;  4  ounces  sugar  to  pound  of  fruit. 
Plums,  boil  10  minutes ;  8  ounces  sugar  to  pound  of  fruit. 
Pears,  boil  20  minutes;  6  ounces  sugar  to  pound  of  fruit. 
Currants,  boil  6  minutes;  8  ounces  sugar  to  pound  of  fruit. 
Grapes,  boil  10  minutes;  8  ounces  sugar  to  pound  of  fruit. 
Gooseberries,  boil  8  minutes ;  8  ounces  sugar  to  pound  of  fruit. 


172 


Fruits. 


FRUITS. 


The  arrangement  of  fresh  fruits  for  the  table  affords  play 
for  the  most  cultivated  taste  and  not  a  little  inventive  genius. 
Melons,  oranges,  and  indeed  all  kinds  of  fruits,  are  appro- 
priate breakfast  dishes;  and  a  raised  centre-piece  of  mixed 
fruits  furnishes  a  delicious  dessert,  and  is  an  indispensable 
ornament  to  an  elegant  dinner  table.  Melons  should  be  kept 
on  ice,  so  as  to  be  thoroughly  chilled  when  served.  Clip  the 
ends  of  water  melons,  cut  them  across  in  halves,  set  up  on  the 
clipped  ends  on  a  platter,  and  serve  the  pulp  only,  removing 
it  with  a  spoon ;  or,  cut  across  in  slices,  and  serve  with  rind. 
Nutmeg  melons  should  be  set  on  the  blossom  end,  and  cut  in 
several  equal  pieces  from  the  stem  downward,  leaving  each 
alternate  piece  still  attached;  the  others  may  then  be  loosened 
and  the  seeds  removed,  when  the  melon  is  ready  to  serve. 
Fruit  should  be  carefully  selected.  Havana  and  Florida 
oranges  are  the  best,  but  do  not  keep  well,  and,  on  the  whole, 
the  Messina  are  preferable.  A  rough  yellow  skin  covers  the 
sweetest  oranges,  the  smooth  being  more  juicy  and  acid;  a 
greenish  tinge  indicates  that  they  were  picked  unripe.  The 
Messina  lemons,  "  November  cut,"  are  the  best,  and  come  into 
market  in  the  spring. 

APPLE  SAUCE, 

Pare,  core,  and  cut  in  quarters  apples  that  do  not  cook  to 
pieces  easily,  and  put  on  to  stew  in  cold  water  with  plenty  of 
sugar.  Cover  close  and  stew  an  hour  or  more.  The  addition 
of  the  sugar  at  first  preserves  the  pieces  whole.  If  they  are 
preferred  finely  mashed,  add  sugar  after  they  are  done. 


hruits. 


173 


BAKED  APPLES. 

Cut  out  the  blossom  and  stem,  in  the  stem  end  put  some 
sugar,  place  in  dish  with  a  small  quantity  of  water  if  apples 
are  sweet;  if  sour,  the  juice  will  be  sufficient;  bake  till  soft; 
serve  either  warm  or  cold.  For  an  extra  nice  dish,  pare  and 
core  apples,  place  in  pan,  put  butter  and  sugar  in  cavity,  and 
sprinkle  cinnamon  over  them,  and  serve  warm  with  cream  or 
milk.  Or,  pare  and  quarter  tart  apples,  put  a  layer  in  earthen 
baking  dish,  add  lumps  of  butter  and  sprinkle  with  cinnamon, 
then  a  layer  of  apples,  etc.,  till  dish  is  full;  bake  till  soft. 

BAKED  SOUR  APPLES. 

Quarter  and  core  tart  apples  without  paring,  put  into  a 
bakiug  dish,  sprinkle  with  sugar  and  bits  of  butter,  add  a 
little  water,  and  bake  until  tender.  The  proportion  is  a  gill 
of  sugar,  and  butter  half  the  size  of  an  egg,  to  three  pints  of 
apples,  and  a  gill  and  a  half  of"  water. 

BAKED  SWEET  APPLES. 

The  most  elaborate  combinations  of  the  most  skillful  cook 
cannot  surpass  simple  sweet  apples,  properly  baked.  They 
are  wonderfully  rich  and  luscious.  The  best  is  the  "  Pound 
Sweeting,"  but  other  kinds  are  almost  equal  to  it.  Never  core 
sweet  apples ;  wash  them,  set  in  baking  pan  with  a  little  water 
in  it,  and  bake  slowly  for  several  hours.  When  done,  they 
are  of  a  rich,  dark -brown  color.  If  taken  out  too  soon  they 
are  insipid. 

FRIED  APPLES. 

Quarter  and  core  apples  without  paring ;  prepare  frying  pan 
by  heating  it  and  putting  in  beef  drippings ;  lay  the  apples  in 
the  pan,  skin  side  down,  sprinkle  with  a  little  brown  sugar, 
and  when  nearly  done,  turn  and  brown  thoroughly. 

BLACK  CAPS. 

Pare  and  core  tart  apples  with  apple-corer,  fill  the  centre 
with  sugar,  stick  four  cloves  in  the  top  of  each,  and  bake  in 
deep  pie  dishes  with  a  little  water. 


174 


Fruits 


ICED  APPLES. 

Pare  and  core  one  dozen  large  apples,  fill  with  sugar  and  a 
little  butter  and  nutmeg;  bake  until  nearly  done,  let  cool,  and 
remove  to  another  plate,  if  it  can  be  done  without  breaking 
them,  if  not,  pour  off  the  juice.  Ice  tops  and  sides  with  cake- 
icing,  and  brown  lightly.    Serve  with  cream. 

TO  KEEP  APPLES. 

Apples  are  usually  kept  on  open  shelves,  easily  accessible, 
so  that  the  decaying  ones  may  be  easily  removed.  They  are 
sometimes  packed  in  layers  of  dry  sand,  care  being  taken  not 
to  let  them  touch  each  other,  with  good  results.  When  they 
begin  to  decay,  pick  out  those  which  are  specked,  stew  them 
up  with  cider  and  sugar,  and  fill  all  empty  self-sealing  fruit 
cans,  and  keep  the  sauce  for  use  late  in  the  season.  Or,  pack 
in  dry  sawdust,  or  any  grain,  as  oats,  barley,  etc.,  so  that  they 
will  not  touch  each  other;  or  if  the  fruit  is  fine,  wrap  each 
apple  in  paper  and  pack  in  boxes. 

TO  KEEP  LEMONS. 

Cover  them  with  cold  water,  changing  it  every  week.  This 
makes  them  more  juicy. 

PEACH  PYRAMID. 

Cut  a  dozen  peaches  in  halves,  peel  and  take  out  stones, 
crack  half  the  seeds,  and  blanch  the  kernels;  make  a  clear 
boiling  syrup  of  one  pound  of  white  sugar,  and  into  it  put  the 
peaches  and  kernels;  boil  very  gently  for  ten  minutes,  take 
out  half  the  peaches,  boil  the  rest  for  ten  minutes  longer,  and 
take  out  all  the  peaches  and  kernels;  mix  with  the  syrup  left 
in  the  kettle  the  strained  juice  of  three  lemons,  and  an  ounce 
of  isinglass  dissolved  in  a  little  water  and  strained;  boil  up 
once,  fill  a  mould  half  full  of  this  syrup  or  jelly,  let  stand  until 
"  set,"  add  part  of  the  peaches  and  a  little  more  jelly,  and 
when  this  is  set,  add  the  rest  of  the  peaches,  and  fill  up  the 
mould  with  jell}'.    This  makes  an  elegant  ornament. 


Fruits, 


175 


BAKED  PEACHES. 

Wash  peaches  which  are  nearly  or  quite  ripe,  place  in  a 
deep  dish,  sprinkle  with  sugar,  cover,  and  bake  until  tender. 

FROZEN  PEACHES. 

Pare  and  divide  large,  fresh,  ripe  and  juicy  peaches,  and 
sprinkle  over  them  granulated  sugar,  freeze  them  like  ice- 
cream for  an  hour;  remove  them  just  before  serving,  and 
sprinkle  with  a  little  more  sugar.  Canned  peaches,  and  all 
kinds  of  berries  may  be  prepared  in  the  same  way. 

TO  KEEP  PINE-APPLES. 

Pare  aucl  cut  out  the  eyes  of  a  ripe  pine -apple,  strip  all  the 
pulp  from  the  core  with  a  silver  fork;  to  a  pint  of  this  add  a 
pound  of  granulated  sugar,  stir  occasionally  until  sugar  is  dis- 
solved, put  in  glass  fruit  cans,  and  turn  down  the  covers  as 
closely  as  possible.    This  will  keep  a  long  time. 

BAKED  QUINCES. 

Wash  and  core  ripe  quinces,  fill  with  sugar,  and  bake  in 
baking  dish  with  a  little  water. 

MOCK  STPvAWBEPRIES. 

Cut  ripe  peaches  and  choice,  well-flavored  apples,  in  propor- 
tion of  three  peaches  to  one  apple,  into  pieces  about  the  size 
of  a  strawberry,  place  in  alternate  layers,  sprinkle  the  top 
thickly  with  sugar,  and  add  pounded  ice;  let  stand  about  two 
hours,  mix  peaches  and  apples  thoroughly,  let  stand  an  hour 
longer,  and  serve. 


176 


Pickles. 


PICKLES. 


In  making  pickles  use  none  but  the  best  cider  vinegar,  and 
boil  in  a  porcelain  kettle — never  in  metal.  A  small  lump  of 
alum  dissolved  and  added  when  scalding  pickles  the  first 
time,  renders  them  crisp  and  tender,  but  too  much  is  injurious. 
Keep  in  glass  or  stoneware;  look  at  them  frequently  and 
remove  all  soft  ones;  if  white  specks  appear  in  the  vinegar, 
drain  off  and  scald,  adding  a  liberal  handful  of  sugar  to  each 
gallon,  and  pour  again  over  the  pickles:  bits  of  horse-radish 
and  a  few  cloves  assist  in  preserving  the  life  of  the  vinegar. 
If  put  away  in  large  stone  jars,  invert  a  saucer  over  the  top  of 
the  pickles,  so  as  to  keep  well  under  the  vinegar.  The  nicest 
way  to  put  up  pickles  is  bottling,  sealing  while  hot,  and  keep- 
ing in  a  cool,  dark  place.  Many  think  that  mustard  (the 
large  white  or  yellow)  improves  pickles,  especially  those  chop- 
ped and  bottled,  and  mangoes.  Never  put  up  pickles  in  any 
thing  that  has  held  any  kind  of  grease,  and  never  let  them 
freeze.  Use  an  oaken  tub  or  cask  for  pickles  in  brine,  keep 
them  well  under,  and  have  more  salt  than  will  dissolve,  so 
that  there  will  always  be  plenty  at  the  bottom  of  the  cask. 
All  pickles  should  be  kept  from  the  air  as  much  as  possible. 
In  making  sweet  pickles,  use  best  brown  sugar,  "coffee  C,"  or 
good  maple  sugar. 

PICKLED  ARTICHOKES. 

Rub  off  outer  skin  with  a  coarse  towel  and  lay  in  salt  water 
for  a  day,  drain,  and  pour  over  them  cold  spiced  vinegar, 
adding  a  tea-spoon  of  horse-radish  to  each  jar. 


Pickles. 


177 


BEAN  PICKLES. 

Pick  green  beans  when  young  and  tender,  string,  and  place 
in  a  kettle  to  boil,  with  salt  to  taste,  until  they  can  be  pierced 
by  a  fork,  drain  well  through  a  colander,  put  into  a  stone  jar, 
sprinkle  with  ground  black  or  cayenne  pepper,  and  cover  with 
strong  cider  vinegar;  sugar  may  be  added  if  desired.  The 
best  varieties  for  pickliug  are  the  white  u  German  wax,"  and 
"  Virginia  snap." 

SWEET  PICKLED  BEETS. 

Boil  them  in  a  porcelain  kettle  till  quite  soft,  when  cool  cut 
lengthwise  to  size  of  a  medium  cucumber ;  boil  equal  parts 
vinegar  and  sugar  with  half  a  table-spoon  ground  cloves  tied 
in  a  cloth  to  each  gallon ;  pour  hot  over  the  beets. 

PICKLED  CABBAGE. 

Take  nice  heads  of  purple  cabbage,  pull  olf  the  loose  leaves, 
slice  from  top  of  head  across  the  cabbage,  in  slices  of  about 
half  an  inch  in  thickness,  place  in  a  stone  jar,  sprinkle  well 
with  salt,  let  stand  twenty-four  hours.  Prepare  vinegar  as 
follows :  To  a  gallon  add  one  ounce  mace,  one  ounce  pepper- 
corns (whole  black  pepper),  and  a  little  mustard  seed.  Drain 
cabbage,  put  back  in  jar,  scald  vinegar  and  spices,  and  pour 
over  cabbage,  repeating  the  scalding  operation  two  or  three 
times,  and  cover  jar  very  tight.  When  done  the  cabbage  will 
be  a  handsome  red  color,  and  very  ornamental  to  the  table. 

PICKLED  CHERRIES. 

Pick  over  the  cherries  and  remove  all  specked  ones.  Put 
them  into  a  jar,  and  pour  over  them  as  much  hot  vinegar  and 
sugar  as  will  cover  them ;  to  each  gallon  of  vinegar  allow  four 
pounds  sugar.  Boil  and  skim  it,  and  pour  it  hot  over  the 
fruit.  Let  it  stand  a  week,  then  pour  off  the  vinegar  aud  boil 
as  before;  pour  it  hot  over  the  cherries  the  second  time.  As 
soon  as  they  are  cold  tie  them  closely, 

23 


178 


Pickles. 


CHOW  CHOW. 

One  peck  green  tomatoes,  half  peck  string  beams,  quarter 
peck  small  white  onions,  quarter  pint  green  peppers  mixed, 
two  large  heads  cabbage,  four  table  spoons  white  mustard 
seed,  two  of  white  or  black  cloves,  two  of  celery  seed,  two  of 
allspice,  one  small  box  yellow  mustard,  pound  brown  sugar, 
ounce  turmeric;  slice  the  tomatoes  and  let  stand  over  night  in 
brine  that  will  bear  an  egg;  then  squeeze  out  brine,  chop  cab- 
bage, onions  and  beans,  chop  tomatoes  separately,  mix  with 
the  spices,  put  all  in  porcelain  kettle,  cover  with  vinegar,  and 
boil  three  hours. 

CHOW  CHOW  PICKLES. 

Let  two  hundred  small  cucumbers  stand  in  salt  and  water 
closely  covered  for  three  days.  Boil  for  fifteen  minutes  in  half 
a  gallon  best  cider  vinegar,  one  ounce  white  mustard  seed,  one 
of  black  mustard  seed,  one  of  juniper  berries,  one  of  celery 
seed  (tying  each  ounce  separately  in  Swiss  bags),  one  handful 
small  green  peppers,  two  pounds  sugar,  a  few  onions,  and  a 
small  piece  alum.  Pour  the  vinegar  while  hot  over  the  cucum- 
bers, let  stand  a  day,  repeating  the  operation  three  or  four 
mornings.  Mix  one-fourth  pound  mustard  with  vinegar  and 
pour  over. 

PICKLED  CUCUMBERS. 

Put  some  spiced  vinegar  in  a  jar,  with  a  little  salt  in  it. 
Every  time  you  gather  cucumbers,  pour  boiling  vinegar,  with 
a  little  alum  in  it,  over  them.  Then  put  them  in  the  spiced 
vinegar.  Keep  the  same  vinegar  for  scalding.  When  you 
have  enough  take  all  from  the  spiced  vinegar  and  scald  in  the 
alum  vinegar  two  or  three  minutes,  till  green,  then  put  them 
back  in  the  spiced  vinegar. 

PICKLED  CUCUMBERS— No.  2. 

Prepare  and.  quarter  ripe  cucumbers,  take  out  the 'seeds, 
clean,  la}^  in  strong  brine  nine  days,  stirring  every  day,  take 
out  and  put  in  clear  water  one  day,  lay  in  alum- water  (a  lump 


Pickles. 


179 


of  alum  the  size  of  a  medium  hulled  hickory  nut  to  a  gallon  of 
water)  over  night,  make  syrup  of  a  pint  good  cider  vinegar, 
pound  brown  sugar,  two  table-spoons  each  broken  cinnamon 
bark,  mace,  and  pepper  grains;  make  syrup  enough  to  cover 
the  slices,  lay  them  in  and  cook  till  tender. 

PICKLED  CUCUMBERS— No.  3. 

Wash  the  cucumbers  well  and  place  them  in  stone  jars.  To 
every  gallon  of  vinegar  add  half  a  tea-cup  salt,  one  ounce 
ginger  root,  one  ounce  allspice,  one  ounce  cloves,  one  ounce 
cinnamon,  one  ounce  black  pepper.  Boil  the  vinegar  and 
spices  together  for  three  mornings  and  pour  over  the  pickles 
hot ;  cover  them  closely.    Will  be  ready  for  use  in  three  days. 

RIPE  CUCUMBER  PICKLES— No.  1. 

Cut  large,  ripe,  solid  cucumbers  in  rings,  pare,  divide  into 
smaller  pieces  and  remove  the  seeds;  cook  pieces  very  slightly 
in  weak  vinegar,  with  salt  enough  to  season  well,  drain,  and 
put  in  stone  jar  in  layers,  with  a  few  slices  of  onions,  some 
cayenne  pepper,  whole  allspice,  whole  cloves,  bits  of  cinnamon 
bark,  and  celery  seed  (according  to  taste)  between  the  layers 
of  cucumber.  Then  cover  with  a  syrup  made  of  one  pound 
brown  sugar  to  one  quart  cider  vinegar,  boiled  for  about  five 
minutes.    Cover  closely  and  set  in  a  cool  place. 

RIPE  CUCUMBER  PICKLES — No.  2.— Lottie  Landon. 

Pare  and  core,  soak  in  vinegar  and  water,  with  a  little  alum, 
for  twenty-four  hours  or  more.  Take  them  out  and  weigh,  to 
each  pound  of  fruit  take  half  pound  sugar;  boil  them  in  clear 
vinegar  until  transparent,  then  put  on  the  sugar  and  vinegar, 
and  boil  the  fruit  till  of  a  dark,  rich  color,  then  skim  out  and 
boil  the  syrup  with  a  few  cassia  buds,  and  pour  over  the  fruit. 

CUCUMBER  RELISH. 

This  may  be  made  of  large  cucumbers,  Pare  and  cut  in 
two,  take  out  seeds,  and  grate,  strain  out  most  of  the  water, 
season  highly  with  pepper  and  salt,  add  a  little  sugar,  and  as 
much  vinegar  as  you  have  cucumbers ;  put  in  small  bottles 
and  seal. 


180 


Pickles. 


FRENCH  PICKLES. 

One  peck  green  tomatoes  sliced,  six  large  onions  sliced,  mix 
these  and  throw  over  them  one  tea-cup  salt  and  let  them  stand 
over  night,  next  day  drain  thoroughly  and  boil  in  one  quart 
vinegar  mixed  with  two  quarts  water,  for  fifteen  or  twenty 
minutes.  Then  take  four  quarts  vinegar,  two  pounds  brown 
sugar,  half  pound  white  mustard  seed,  two  table-spoons  ground 
allspice,  and  the  same  of  cinnamon,  cloves,  ginger,  and  ground 
mustard;  throw  all  together  and  boil  fifteen  minutes. 

PICKLED  GRAPES. 

Fill  a  jar  with  alternate  layers  of  sugar  and  bunches  of  nice 
grapes  just  ripe;  fill  one-third  full  of  good  cold  vinegar,  and 
cover  tightly. 

SPICED  GRAPES. 

5  pounds  grapes,  3  pounds  sugar, 

2  tea-spoons  cinnamon  and    ^  tea-spoon  cloves, 
allspice. 

Pulp  grapes,  boil  skins  until  tender,  cook  pulps  and  strain 
through  a  sieve,  add  it  to  the  skins,  put  in  sugar,  spices  and 
vinegar  to  taste;  boil  thoroughly  and  cool. 

MANGOES.  * 

Select  green  or  half  grown  musk  melons,  remove  a  piece  the 
length  of  the  melon,  an  inch  and  a  half  wide  in  the  middle  and 
tapering  to  a  point  at  each  end,  take  out  seeds  with  a  tea- 
spoon, secure  each  piece  to  its  own  melon  by  a  stitch  made 
with  a  needle  and  white  thread.  Make  a  strong  brine  of  salt 
and  cold  water,  pour  it  over  them,  and  after  twenty-four  hours 
take  them  out.  For  filling  use  chopped  tomatoes,  chopped 
cabbage,  small  cucumbers,  small  white  onions,  and  nasturtium 
seed,  each  prepared  by  remaining  in  salt  water  in  separate 
jars  twenty-four  hours;  add  also  green  beans  boiled  in  salt 
water  until  tender.  For  spice,  use  cinnamon  bark,  whole 
cloves,  sliced  and  chopped  horse-radish. 


Pickles. 


181 


SPICED  NUTMEG  MELON. 

Select  melons  not  quite  ripe,  open,  scrape  out  the  pulp,  peel 
and  slice;  put  the  fruit  into  a  stone  jar,  and,  for  five  pounds 
fruit,  take  a  quart  vinegar  and  two  and  a  half  pounds  sugar; 
scald  vinegar  and  sugar  together  and  pour  over  the  fruit; 
scald  the  syrup  and  pour  over  the  fruit  for  eight  successive 
days.  On  the  ninth,  add  one  ounce  stick  cinnamon,  one  of 
whole  cloves,  and  one  of  allspice.  Scald  fruit,  vinegar  and 
spices  together  and  seal  up  in  jars.  This  pickle  should  stand 
two  or  three  months  before  using. 

made  mustard. 

1  table-spoon  mustard,  1  table-spoon  sugar, 

1  tea-spoon  salt.  1|  wine-glasses  vinegar, 

1  egg. 

Let  come  to  a  boil. 

MADE  MUSTARD. 

4  tablespoons  best  English  2  teaspoons  salt, 

mustard, 

2  teaspoons  white  sugar,  1  teaspoon  white  pepper, 
2  teaspoons  salad  oil. 

Vinegar  to  mix  to  a  smooth  paste;  good  vinegar.  Put  the 
mustard  in  a  bowl  and  wet  with  the  oil,  stirring  it  with  a 
wooden  spoon  until  smooth ;  wet  with  vinegar  till  a  stiff  paste , 
add  salt,  pepper  and  sugar ;  work  all  together  thoroughly,  wet- 
ting little  by  little  till  it  is  like  cake  batter ;  beat  a  short 
time,  put  into  mustard  bottles,  and  pour  over  a  little  oil;  set 
away  24  hours,  when  it  is  ready  for  use.    It  is  very  nice. 

PICEXED  ONIONS. 

Select  small  silver-skinned  onions,  remove  with  a  knife  all 
the  outer-skins,  so  that  each  onion  will  be  perfectly  white  and 
clean.  Put  them  into  brine,  that  will  float  an  egg,  for  three 
days;  bring  vinegar  to  boiling  point,  add  a  little  mace  and 
whole  red  peppers,  ( or  sprinkle  with  cayenne,  adding  bits  of 
horse-radish  and  cinnamon-bark  with  a  few  cloves)  and  pour 
it  hot  over  the  onions,  well  drained  from  brine. 


182 


Pickles. 


PICKLED  ONIONS— No.  2.— Mrs.  11. 

Peel  the  onions,  which  should  be  small  white  ones,  let  stand 
in  strong  brine  for  three  days;  take  onions  out  and  boil  them 
fifteen  minutes;  pack  in  jars,  with  mace,  black  pepper,  red 
pepper,  cloves  and  a  little  mace  and  one  pound  sugar.  They 
will  be  ready  for  use  in  one  month.  I  use  tomatoes  with  onions 
sometimes.    Do  not  cook  the  tomatoes. 

PEACH  PICKLES. 

To  seven  pounds  peaches  take  three  pounds  sugar;  take 
soft  fruit;  put  vinegar  and  sugar  on  to  heat;  let  boil;  pour 
over  fruit;  do  this  three  mornings;  use  cinnamon  and  cloves. 
Then  tie  up  and  set  away. 

PEPPER  SAUCE. 

Five  dozen  hot  peppers,  green  or  red,  three  heads  of  cab- 
bage, one  head  celeiy;  chopped.  Sprinkle  with  salt.  One- 
quarter  pound  mustard  seed.  Cover  with  cold  vinegar.  It  is 
ready  for  use. 

PICCALILLY.—  Mrs.  Kimball. 

Slice  1  peck  green  green  tomatoes,  6  green  peppers,  4  onions ; 
strew  a  teacup  of  salt  over  them  and  let  them  stand  over 
night.  In  the  morning  pour  off  the  liquor,  put  the  tomatoes 
in  a  kettle  with  vinegar  enough  to  cover  them  and  one  cup  brown 
sugar,  one  cup  grated  horse-radish,  one  tablespoon  each  cloves, 
cinnamon  and  allspice;  boil  till  soft;  skim  them  out  and  pack 
in  jars  and  pour  the  vinegar  on  while  hot. 

PICKLES. 

Our  way  of  doing  up  jerkins,  or  very  small  cucumber 
pickles,  or  large  ones  if  you  prefer  them ; 

One  peck  very  small  cucumbers,  1  pint  salt,  5  cents  worth 
alum,  5  cents  worth  black  pepper  (whole),  10  cents  worth  cin- 
namon stick,  10  cents  worth  green  peppers  chopped,  not  very 
fine,  5  cents  worth  mustard  seed,  1  pound  sugar.  Wash  the 
pickles,  put  in  stone  jar,  heat  water  sufficient  to  cover  pickles 


Pickies 


183 


boiling  hot,  put  alum  into  boiling  hot  water,  then  pour  the 
boiling  water  over  pickles;  repeat  this  three  mornings,  then 
wash  pickles,  put  into  glass  jars  a  few  pickles,  then  peppers, 
whole  mustard  seed,  cinnamon  in  layers,  put  horse-radish 
on  top  with  any  green  leaves,  such  as  peach  or  grape,  then 
heat  your  vinegar  boiling  hot,  pour  over  pickles  and  seal.  We 
have  had  them  keep  three  years. 

PICKLES  A  LA  FRANCE. — Mrs.  D.  Long. 

Put  two  hundred  smallest  cucumbers  in  salt  water,  let  stand 
twenty-four  hours,  then  put  them  in  two  quarts  of  vinegar, 
let  them  get  hot,  then  take  them  out  and  put  two  quarts  of 
small  onions  into  the  same  vinegar  ;  allow  them  to  boil  until  a 
little  tender,  then  take  two  quarts  fresh  vinegar,  one-half 
pound  mustard,  one  teacup  of  olive  oil.  work  the  oil  and  mus- 
tard together  to  a  cream,  then  stir  it  in  the  vinegar,  let  it  come 
to  a  boil,  mix  thoroughly,  then  put  in  the  cucumbers  and 
onions,  let  them  stand  on  the  back  of  the  stove  where  they 
will  keep  warm  twenty-four  hours,  then  bottle  for  use. 

PICKLED  RAISINS. 

Leave  two  pounds  raisins  on  stem,  add  one  pint  vinegar  and 
half  pound  sugar  :  simmer  over  a  slow  fire  half  an  hour. 

PLUMS— EUCHERED. 

Nine  pounds  blue  plums,  six  pounds  sugar,  two  quarts  vine- 
gar, one  ounce  cinnamon:  boil  vinegar,  sugar  and  spice  to- 
gether, pour  over  plums,  draw  off  next  morning  and  boil,  pour 
back  on  plums,  repeat  the  boiling  five  mornings,  the  last  time 
boiling  the  fruit  about  twenty  minutes. 

PYFER  PICKLES. 

Salt  pickles  down  dry  for  ten  days,  soak  in  fresh  water  one 
day:  pour  off  water,  place  in  a  porcelain  kettle,  cover  with 
water  and  vinegar,  and  add  a  teaspoon  pulverized  alum:  set 
over  night  on  a  stove  which  had  fire  in  during  the  day;  wash 
and  put  in  a  jar  with  cloves,  allspice,  pepper,  horse-radish  and 


184 


Pickles. 


onions  or  garlic;  boil  fresh  vinegar  and  pour  over  all;  in  two 
weeks  they  will  be  ready  for  use.  These  pickles  are  always 
fresh  and  crisp,  and  are  made  with  much  less  trouble  than  in 
the  old-fashioned  way  by  keeping  in  brine. 

SOY. 

One  peck  green  tomatoes,  four  large  onions,  one  tea-cup  of 
salt,  chopped  fine.  Let  stand  over  night;  add  two  quarts  of 
vinegar,  boil  fifteen  minutes,  then  drain  off,  add  one  and  a  half 
pounds  sugar,  three  pints  vinegar,  half  pound  mustard  seed, 
one  tea-spoon  cayenne  pepper,  two  table-spoons  ground  mus- 
tard, cinnamon,  cloves,  ginger. 

GREEN  TOMATO  SOY— CHILLIE  SAUCE. — Mrs.  Rin- 

dernecht. 

12  ripe  tomatoes,  4  onions, 

2  green  peppers,  2  table-spoons  salt, 

1  table-spoon  cloves,  2  grated  nutmegs, 

2  table-spoons  cinnamon,         ^  cup  sugar, 
1  cup  vinegar. 

Chop  tomatoes  and  onions,  put  on  to  boil  for  two  hours, 
then  add  sugar  and  vinegar,  let  boil  for  half  an  hour  longer, 
then  add  chopped  peppers  and  leave  on  the  fire  just  a  few 
moments  longer.    Put  in  jars. 

STRAWBERRY  PICKLES. 

Place  strawberries  in  bottom  of  jar,  add  a  layer  of  cinnamon 
and  cloves,  then  berries,  and  so  on ;  pour  over  it  a  syrup  made 
of  two  coffee-cups  cider  vinegar,  and  three  pints  sugar,  boiled 
about  five  minutes;  let  stand  twenty-four  hours,  pour  off 
syrup,  boil,  pour  over  berries  and  let  stand  as  before,  then 
boil  berries  and  syrup  slowly  twenty-five  minutes;  put  in  jars 
and  cover. 

The  above  is  for  six  quarts  of  berries.  Pine-apples  can  be 
made  in  the  same  way,  allowing  six  and  a  half  pounds  of  fruit 
to  above  proportions. 


Pickles. 


185 


SWEET  PICKLES— No.  1. 
Take  eight  pounds  green  tomatoes  and  chop  line,  add  four 
pounds  brown  sugar  and  boil  down  three  hours,  add  a  quart 
of  vinegar,  a  tea-spoon  each  of  mace,  cinnamon  and  cloves, 
and  boil  about  fifteen  minutes:  let  cool  and  put  into  jars  or 
other  vessel.    Try  this  recipe  once  and  3^011  will  try  it  again. 

SWEET  PICKLES— No.  2. 
These  can  be  prepared  very  nicely  at  any  time  by  taking 
pear,  peach,  plum,  or  apple  preserves,  and  pouring  hot  spiced 
vinegar  over  them;  in  a  few  days  they  will  make  a  delightful 
relish. 

It  very  often  happens  in  putting  up  cucumber  pickles  that 
you  can  only  buy  or  gather  a  few  at  a  time;  these  can  be 
easily  pickled  in  the  following  manner:  Place  in  a  jar, 
sprinkle  with  salt,  in  the  proportion  of  a  pint  of  salt  to  a  peck 
of  cucumbers,  cover  with  boiling  water,  let  stand  twenty-four 
hours,  drain,  cover  with  fresh  hot  water;  after  another  twenty- 
four  hours,  drain,  place  in  a  jar,  and  cover  with  cold,  not  very 
strong  vinegar;  continue  to  treat  each  mess  in  this  manner, 
using  the  two  jars,  one  for  scalding  and  the  other  as  a  final 
receptacle  for  the  pickles,  until  you  have  enough,  when  drain 
and  cover  with  boiling  cider  vinegar,  add  spices,  and  in  a  few 
days  they  will  be  ready  for  use. 

TOMATO  CHOW  CHOW. — Mrs.  DeWoolf,  Bradford. 

One  peck  tomatoes  chopped  fine,  one  tea-cup  salt;  let  stand 
over  night,  then  drain  through  colander;  two  quarts  water  and 
one  quart  vinegar ;  cook  half  an  hour,  drain  it,  then  add — 

1  gallon  not  strong  vinegar,      6  onions  chopped  fine, 

2  pounds  sugar,  l-i  tablespoons  cloves, 
1-J  table-spoons  cinnamon,       1-|  table-spoons  mustard, 
H  table-spoons  ginger,  1-J  table-spoons  pepper, 
1^-  table-spoons  allspice. 

Cook  all  well  together. 

TOMATO  PICKLES. 
Slice  green  tomatoes,  and  boil  in  weak  brine  until  they  are 
tender;  dissolve  one  pound  of  brown  sugar  in  one  quart  of  vin- 
egar; scald  and  pour  on  the  tomatoes;  spice.to  suit  the  taste. 

24 


186 


Pickles. 


TOMATO  PICKLES— No  2. 

One  peck  of  tomatoes,  good,  1  teacup  of  salt,  one-half  tea- 
cup of  black  pepper,  one.  teaspoon  of  cayenne,  4  onions  chop- 
ped fine,  1  pound  brown  sugar;  boil  one  hour;  1  quart  of  vin- 
egar, 1  teacup  of  celery  seed,  2  tablespoons  of  cloves,  2  table- 
spoons of  cinnamon. 

TOMATO  FIGS. 

Scald  and  skin  pear-shaped  (or  any  small  sized)  tomatoes, 
and  to  eight  pounds  of  them  add  three  pounds  brown  sugar; 
cook  without  water  until  the  sugar  penetrates  and  they  have  a 
clear  appearance,  take  out,  spread  on  dishes,  and  dry  in  the 
sun.  sprinkling  on  a  little  syrup  while  drying;  pack  in  jars  or 
boxes,  in  layers  with  powdered  sugar  between.  Thus  put  up 
they  will  keep  for  any  length  of  time,  and  are  nearly  equal  to 
figs.    Peaches  may  be  preserved  in  the  same  way. 

RIPE  TOMATO  PICKLES. 

Pare  ripe,  sound  tomatoes  (do  not  scald),  put  in  a  jar;  scald 
spices  (tied  in  a  bag)  in  vinegar,  and  pour  while  hot  over 
them.  This  receipt  is  best  for  persons  who  prefer  raw  tomo- 
toes. 

VINEGAR— HONEY. 

To  one  quart  of  clear  honey,  put  eight  quarts  of  warm 
water;  mix  it  well  together;  when  it  has  passed  through  the 
ascetous  fermentation,  a  white  vinegar  will  be  formed,  in  man}^ 
respects  better  than  the  ordinary  vinegar. 

VINEGAR— TO  MAKE. 

Boil  slowly  for  one  hour  three  pounds  of  very  course  brown 
sugar  in  three  gallons  of  water,  work  it  with  a  little  yeast,  the 
same  as  you  would  beer;  then  put  it  into  a  cask,  and  expose 
it  to  the  sun,  with  a  piece  of  brown  paper  pasted  over  the 
bunghole,  and  it  soon  will  become  fine  vinegar,  fit  for  pickling 
or  any  other  purpose. 


Pickles. 


187 


VINEGAR— RASPBERRY. 

Reel  raspberries,  any  quantity  or  sufficient  to  fill  a  stone  jar 
nearly  full,  then  pour  upon  them  sufficient  vinegar  to  cover 
them,  cover  the  jar  closel}T,  and  set  it  aside  for  eight  or  ten 
days,  then  strain  through  flannel  or  muslin,  and  add  to  the 
clear  liquor  one  and  a  half  pounds  sugar  to  each  pint,  place 
over  a  tire  and  boil  for  a  few  minutes,  allow  it  to  cool  and  bot- 
tle for  use.  This  makes,  when  mixed  with  water,  a  delightful 
summer  drink,  and  is  also  very  beneficial  for  convalescents. 

VINEGAR— RASPBfeRRY— No.  2. 

Pour  one  quart  vinegar  and  4  quarts  red  raspberries  in  a 
stone  jar,  let  it  stand  24  hours,  then  strain.  To  one  pint  of 
juice  add  one  pound  white  sugar;  boil  fifteen  minutes  and 
skim ;  when  cold,  bottle  tight.    Will  keep  any  length  of  time. 


188 


Candies,  Frosting,  &c. 


CANDIES,  FROSTINGS,  &C. 


BUTTER  SCOTCH, 

Three  pounds  coffee  A  sugar,  £  pound  butter,  half  teaspoon 
cream  tartar,  eight  drops  extract  lemon,  add  as  much  cold 
water  as  will  dissolve  the  sugar,  boil  without  stirring  till  it 
will  easily  break  when  dropped  in  cold  water,  and  when  done, 
add  the  lemon ;  have  a  dripping  pan  well  buttered  and  pour  in 
one-fourth  inch  thick,  and  when  partly  cold,  mark  off  in 
squares.  If  pulled,  when  partly  cold,  till  very  white,  it  will 
be  like  ice  cream  candy. 

BUTTER  SCOTCH — NO.  2.—Jf/ss  Wilkins. 

Two  cups  sugar,  three  cups  water,  three  tablespoons  of  vin- 
egar, butter  the  size  of  an  egg,  teaspoon  vanilla. 

BUTTER  TAFFY. 

Two  cups  sugar,  three-quarters  cup  vinegar,  one-half  cup 
butter;  boil  until  brittle  when  tested  in  water:  pour  in  but- 
tered pans. 

CARAMELS. 

Three  pounds  brown  sugar,  half  pound  chocolate,  half 
pound  butter,  two  tablespoons  molasses,  same  of  vinegar, 
one  cup  cream  or  milk:  add  vanilla  when  off  fire,  boil  twenty- 
five  minutes,  beat  ten  minutes  to  granulate;  if  crisp  preferred, 
do  not  beat. 

CHOCOLATE  CARAMELS. 

One  cup  chocolate,  one  cup  molasses,  one  cup  brown  sugar, 
one-half  cnp  sweet  milk.  Boil  twenty  minutes,  when  nearly 
done  add  a  piece  of  butter  the  size  of  an  egg. 


Candies,  Frosting,  &c. 


189 


COCOANUT  CARAMELS. 
One  pint  milk,  butter  size  of  an  egg,  one  cocoanut  grated 
fine,  or  dessicated  cocoanut  may  be  used,  three  pounds  white 
sugar,  two  teaspoons  lemon,  boil  slowly  until  stiff  (some  then 
beat  to  a  cream),  pour  into  shallow  pans,  and  when  partly  cold 
cut  in  squares. 

CHOCOLATE  CARAMELS. 
One  cup  grated  chocolate,  four  of  sugar,  two  of  molasses, 
two  of  milk,  butter  size  of  an  egg,  pinch  of  soda  and  flour; 
boil  half  an  hour  with  quick  fire,  stirring  to  keep  from  burn- 
ing, pour  in  pans  and  mark  in  squares  when  nearly  cold. 

CHOCOLATE  DROPS. 
Two  and  a  half  cups  pulverized  or  granulated  sugar,  one- 
half  cup  cold  water,  boil  four  minutes  and  beat  till  cold  enough 
to  make  into  little  balls,  take  half  a  cake  of  chocolate, 
cut  off  fine  and  set  where  it  will  melt,  and  when  balls  are  cool 
enough,  roll  in  the  chocolate.  This  makes  eighty.  Or  while 
making  into  balls,  mold  over  almond  meats,  roll  in  coarse 
sugar,  and  you  have  delicious  "  cream  almonds." 

CREAM  CANDY. — Mrs.  Kimball 
Two  cups  sugar,  one-half  cup  water,  three  tablespoons  of 
vinegar,  butter  size  of  a  hickory  nut.    Cook  without  skim- 
ming. 

KISSES. 

Beat  the  whites  of  four  small  eggs  to  a  high,  firm  froth,  stir 
into  it  half  a  pound  pulverized  sugar,  flavor  with  essence 
lemon  or  rose,  continue  to  beat  until  very  light,  then  drop  half 
the  size  of  an  egg,  and  a  little  more  than  an  inch  apart,  on 
well  buttered  letter  paper;  lay  the  paper  on  a  half -inch  board 
and  place  in  a  hot  oven,  watch,  and  as  soon  as  they  begin  to 
look  yellowish  take  them  out;  or,  beat  to  a  stiff  froth  the 
whites  of  two  eggs,  stirring  into  them  very  gradually  two  tea- 
cups powdered  sugar  and  two  tablespoons  corn  starch;  bake 
on  buttered  tins  fifteen  minutes  in  a  warm  oven,  or  until 
slightly  brown.  Chocolate  puffs  are  made  by  adding  two 
ounces  grated  chocolate  mixed  with  the  corn  starch. 


190 


Candies,  Frosting,  &c. 


NUT  TAFFY. 

Two  pints  maple  sugar,  half  pint  water,  or  just  enough  to 
dissolve  sugar,  boil  until  it  becomes  brittle  b}^  dropping  in  cold 
water;  just  before  pouring  out  add  a  tablespoon  of  vinegar; 
having  prepared  the  hickorynut  meats,  in  halves  if  possible, 
butter  well  the  pans,  line  with  the  meats,  and  pour  the  taffy 
over  them. 

POP  CORN  BALLS. 

Pop  the  corn  and  reject  all  that  is  not  nicefy  opened.,  place 
a  half  bushel  on  a  table  or  dripping  pan;  put  a  little  water  in 
a  suitable  kettle,  with  one  pound  sugar,  and  boil  until  it  be- 
comes quite  waxy  in  cold  water,  remove  from  fire  and  dip  into 
it  six  or  seven  tablespoons  of  gum  solution,  (made  as  thick  as 
molasses  by  pouring  boiling  water  on  gum  arabic  and  letting 
stand  over  night),  pour  mixture  over  the  corn,  putting  a  stick 
or  the  hands  under  the  corn,  lifting  it  up  and  mixing  until  it 
is  all  saturated,  let  stand  a  few  moments,  then  flour  the  hands 
slightly  and  press  into  balls.  This  amount  will  make  one 
hundred  pop  corn  balls  such  as  the  street  peddlers  sell,  but 
for  home  eating,  omit  the  gum  solution,  and  use  a  half  pint  of 
stiff  taffy  made  as  above  for  one  peck  of  popped  corn,  This 
will  make  twenty  rich  balls. 

TAFFY. — Mrs.  Kimball 

Three  ounces  butter  melted,  then  add  one  pound  brown 
sugar,  stirring  gently  and  constantly  fifteen  minutes;  cool  on 
buttered  pans  or  plates. 

VANITY  PUFFS. 

Beat  five  or  six  whites  of  eggs  very  stiff,  add  a  pound  of 
sugar,  flavor  with  lemon  or  cardamon,  cut  off'  about  egg-size 
with  a  tablespoon,  put  on  buttered  paper,  and  let  dry  in  a  cool 
oven  two  hours. 


Candies.  Frosting,  &c. 


191 


FROSTING— No  1. 

Blanch  half  pint  sweet  almonds  by  putting  them  in  boiling- 
water,  stripping  off  the  sMds,  and  spreading  upon  a  dry 
cloth  until  cold:  pound  a  few  of  them  at  a  time  in  a  mortar 
till  well  pulverized:  mix  carefully  whites  of  three  eggs  and 
three-quarters  pint  powdered  sugar,  add  almonds,  flavor  with 
a  tea-spoon  vanilla  or  lemon,  and  dry  in  a  cool  oven  or  in  the 
open  air  when  weather  is  pleasant. 

FROSTING— No.  '2. 

Beat  whites  of  two  eggs  to  a  stiff  froth,  add  gradually  half 
pound  best  pulverized  sugar,  beat  well  for  at  least  half  an 
hour,  flavor  with  lemon  juice  (and  some  add  tartaric  acid,  as 
both  whiten  the  icing).  To  color  a  delicate  pink,  use  straw- 
berry, currant  or  cranberry:  or  the  grated  peeling  of  a  lemon 
or  orange  moistened  with  the  juice  and  squeezed  through  a 
thin  cloth,  will  color  a  handsome  yellow.  This  amount  will 
frost  one  large  cake. 

BOILED  FROSTING. 

Whites  of  three  eggs  beaten  to  a  stiff  froth,  one  large  cup 
granulated  sugar  moistened  with  four  table-spoons  hot  water; 
boil  sugar  briskly  for  five  minutes,  or  until  it  "ropes"  from 
the  end  of  the  spoon,  turn  while  hot  upon  the  beaten  eggs,  and 
stir  until  cold.  If  preferred,  add  half  a  pound  sweet  almonds 
blanched  and  pounded  to  a  paste,  and  it  will  be  perfectly  deli- 
cious.   This  amount  will  frost  the  tops  of  two  large  cakes. 

FROSTING  TVITH  GELATINE. 

Dissolve  large  pinch  gelatine  in  six  table-spoons  boiling 
water,  strain  and  thicken  with  sugar  and  flavor  with  lemon. 
This  is  enough  to  frost  two  cakes. 

HICKORY  NUT  FROSTING. 

Take  one  or  two  eggs,  according  to  size  of  cake,  a  tea-cup 
of  sugar  to  an  egg:  chop  the  meats  very  fine,  mix  with  frost- 
ing and  spread  on  cake  as  thickly  as  you  choose. 


192 


Candies,  Frosting,  &c. 


ORNAMENTAL  FROSTING. 

Draw  a  small  syringe  full  of  the  icing  and  work  it  in  any 
design  you  fancy — wheels,  Grecian  borders,  flowers,  or  border 
of  beading ;  looks  well. 

ROSE  COLORING. 

Mix  together  one-fourth  ounce  each  of  powdered  alum  and 
cream  tartar,  one  ounce  powdered  cochineal,  four  ounces  loaf 
sugar,  and  a  salt  spoon  soda.  Boil  ten  minutes  in  a  pint  pure 
soft  water,  when  cool  bottle  and  cork  for  use.  This  is  used 
for  jellies,  cake,  ice  cream,  etc. 

YELLOW  FROSTING. 

The  yolk  of  one  egg  to  nine  heaping  tea-spoons  pulverized 
sugar,  and  flavor  with  vanilla.    Use  the  same  day  it  is  made. 


Drinks. 


193 


DRINKS. 


FILTERED  COFFEE. 

The  National  Coffee-pot  is  so  widely  known  as  not  to  need 
description  here,  but  the  k4gude  wife"  can  improvise  one 
equally  as  desirable  and  much  simpler.  Make  a  sack  of  fine 
flannel,  or  canton  flannel,  as  long  as  the  coffee-pot  is  deep,  and 
a  little  larger  than  the  top;  stitch  up  the  side  seam  to  within 
an  inch  and  a  half  of  the  top,  bend  a  piece  of  small  but  rather 
stiff  wire  in  a  circle,  and  slip  it  through  a  hem  made  around 
the  top  of  the  sack,  bringing  the  ends  together  at  the  opening 
left  at  the  top  of  the  side  seam.  Having  put  the  coffee  in  the 
sack,  lower  it  into  the  coffee-pot  with  the  ends  of  the 
wire  next  the  handle,  spread  the  ends  of  the  wire  apart 
slightly,  and  push  it  down  over  the  top  of  the  pot.  The 
top  of  the  sack  will  then  be  turned  down  a  little  over  the  out- 
side of  the  pot,  a  part  of  it  covering  the  "  nose,"  and  keeping 
in  all  the  aroma,  the  elasticity  of  the  wire  causing  it  to  close 
tight  around  the  pot,  holding  the  sack  close  to  its  sides. 
Instead  of  a  wire  (which  must  be  removed  to  wash  the  sack 
after  using),  a  tape  may  be  used  by  tying  the  ends  after 
turning  the  top  of  sack  down.  When  the  sack,  with  the  coffee 
in  it  is  in  its  place,  pour  the  boiling  water  over  the  coffee,  close 
the  lid  Tightly,  and  let  simmer  (not  boil)  fifteen  minutes  to 
half  an  hour.  In  pouring  for  the  table  raise  the  sack  off  the 
nose  but  not  out  of  the  pot.  This  makes  good  coffee  without 
eggs  or  anything  else  to  settle  it 


194 


Drinks. 


MAKING  COFFEE. 

"  One  for  the  pot,"  and  a  heaping  tea-spoon  of  ground 
coffee  for  each  person,  is  the  usual  allowance.  Mix  well, 
either  with  a  part  or  the  whole  of  an  egg  and  enough  cold 
water  to  thoroughly  moisten  it,  place  in  a  well-scalded  coffee- 
boiler,  pour  in  half  the  quantity  of  boiling  water  needed, ~ 
allowing  one  pint  less  of  water  than  there  are  table-spoons  of 
coffee.  Roll  a  cloth  tightly  and  stop  up  the  the  nose  or  spout, 
thus  keeping  in  all  the  coffee  flavor.  Boil  rather  fast  five 
minutes,  stirring  down  from  the  top  and  sides  as  it  boils  up, 
and  place  on  back  part  of  stove  or  range  where  it  will  only 
simmer  for  ten  or  fifteen  minutes  longer.  When  ready  to  serve 
add  the  remainder  of  the  boiling  water.  Coffee  boiled  a  long 
time  is  strong,  but  not  so  well  flavored  or  agreeable  as  when 
prepared  as  above. 

MAKING  TEA. 

"  Polly  put  the  kettle  on,  and  we'll  all  take  tea." 
Of  all  the  "cups  that  cheer"  there  is  nothing  like  the 
smoking-hot  cup  of  tea  made  with  boiling  water  in  a  thor- 
oughly scalded  tea-pot.  If  it  is  the  good  old  fashioned  green 
tea  of  "  ye  ancient,  time,"  you  must  put  it  to  draw  and  not  to 
boil.  If  it  is  genuine  "English  Breakfast,"  or  best  black  tea, 
the  water  must  not  only  be  boiling  hot  at  the  very  moment  of 
pouring  it  on,  but  the  tea  must  actually  boil  for  at  least  five  or 
ten  minutes.  To  insure  keeping  hot  while  serving,  make  the 
simple  contrivance  known  as  a  "  bonnet,"  which  is  warranted 
a  sure  preventative  against  that  most  insipid  of  all  drinks — a 
warmish  cup  of  tea.  It  is  merely  a  sack,  with  a  loose  elastic 
in  the  bottom,  large  enough  to  cover  and  encircle  the  entire 
tea-pot.  Make  it  with  odd  pieces  of  silk,  satin,  or  cashmere, 
lined,  quilted  or  embroidered ;  draw  this  over  the  tea-pot  as 
soon  as  the  tea  is  poured  into  it,  and  it  will  remain  piping  hot 
for  half  an  hour.  One  tea-spoon  of  tea  and  one  tea-cup  of  hot  c 
water  is  the  usual  allowance  for  each  person.  Freshly  boiled 
soft  water  is  the  best  for  either  tea  or  coffee.  Always  have  a 
water-pot  of  hot  water  on  the  waiter  with  which  to  weaken 


Drinks. 


196 


each  cup  if  desired.  Serve  both  tea  and  coffee  with  the  best 
and  richest  cream,  but  in  the  absence  of  this  luxury,  a  toler- 
able substitute  is  prepared  as  follows :  Take  fresh,  new  milk, 
set  in  a  pan  or  pail  where  it  will  slowly  simmer  but  not  boil  or 
reach  the  boiling  point,  stir  frequently  to  keep  the  cream  from 
separating  and  rising  to  the  top,  and  allow  to  simmer  until  it 
is  rich,  thick  and  creamy.  In  absence  of  both  cream  and 
milk,  the  white  of  an  egg  beaten  to  a  froth,  with  a  small  bit  of 
butter  well  mixed  with  it,  may  be  used.  In  pouring  coffee,  it 
must  be  turned  on  gradually  so  as  not  to  curdle  it. 

RYE  COFFEE. 

Take  a  peck  of  rye  and  cover  it  with  water,  let  it  steep  or 
boil  until  the  grain  swells  or  commences  to  burst ;  then  drain 
or  dry  it.  Roast  to  a  deep  brown  color,  and  prepare  as  other 
coffee,  allowing  twice  the  time  for  boiling.  Serve  with  boiled 
milk, 

COFFEE  WITH  WHIPPED  CREAM. 

For  six  cups  of  coffee  of  fair  size,  take  one  cup  sweet  cream 
whipped  light  with  a  little  sugar ;  put  into  each  cup  the 
desired  amount  of  sugar  and  about  a  table-spoon  boiling  milk ; 
pour  the  coffee  over  these  and  lay  upon  the  surface  of  the  hot 
liquid  a  large  spoonful  of  the  frothed  cream. 

CHOCOLATE. —  Vermont  Becipe. 

To  a  pint  of  boiling  milk  and  water,  in  equal  proportions, 
take  one  table-spoon  chocolate  and  one  table-spoon  sugar,  dis- 
solve the  chocolate  and  sugar  in  cold  milk,  stir  into  the  milk 
and  water  while  boiling,  and  allow  all  to  boil  ten  or  fifteen 
minutes. 

SODA  BEER. 

2  pounds  white  sugar,  Whites  of  two  eggs, 

2  ounces  tartaric  acid,  2  table-spoons  flour, 

2  quarts  water. 

Boil  two  or  three  minutes  and  flavor  to  taste.  When 
wanted  for  use,  take  a  half  tea-spoon  soda,  dissolve  in  half  a 
glass  of  water,  pour  into  it  about  two  table-spoons  of  the  acid, 
and  it  will  foam  to  the  top  of  the  glass. 


196 


Drinks. 


DOMESTIC  CHAMPAGNE. 

When  grapes  are  just  turning,  or  about  half  ripe,  gather 
them,  pound  them  in  a  tub,  and  to  every  quart  of  pounded 
fruit  add  two  quarts  of  water;  let  the  mixture  stand  fourteen 
days,  then  draw  it  off;  to  every  gallon  of  liquor  add  three 
pounds  of  loaf  sugar;  when  the  sugar  is  dissolved  pour  into  a 
cask;  after  it  has  done  working  put  in  a  cellar;  in  six  months 
bottle  and  wire  corks  tightly. 

SHAM  CHAMPAGNE. 

1  ounce  tartaric  acid,  1  good-sized  lemon, 

1  ounce  ginger  root,  1£  pounds  white  sugar, 

2^  gallons  water,  1  gill  yeast. 

Slice  the  lemons,  bruise  the  ginger;  mix  all  except  the 
yeast;  boil  the  water  and  pour  it  upon  them,  and  let  stand 
until  cooled  to  blood  heat,  then  add  "the  yeast;  let  stand  in 
sun  through  the  day,  at  night  bottle,  tie  the  corks,  and  in  two 
days  it  will  be  fit  for  use. 

CURRANT  WINE. 

Currants  4  pounds,  sugar  3  pounds,  water  one  gallon.  Place 
the  currants,  stems  and  all,  in  a  tub,  and  mash  them  well;  add 
the  water,  set  in  a  cool  place  and  stir  occasionally;  continue 
the  stirring  for  three  days,  then  drain  the  liquor  through  a 
sieve,  squeeze  the  pulp  in  a  cloth,  add  the  sugar,  stirring  until 
it  is  all  dissolved,  and  put  into  a  barrel  or  cask,  which  should 
stand  in  a  dry,  cool  cellar.  When  fermentation  is  over,  bung 
up  tight  and  leave  all  winter.  Rack  off  in  spring  before  sec- 
ond fermentation,  and  bottle  after  second  fermentation. 

LEMONADE. 

Roll  six  lemons  well,  slice  thin  in  an  earthen  vessel,  put  over 
them  two  tea-cups  white  sugar,  let  stand  fifteen  minutes,  add 
one  gallon  water  and  lumps  of  ice,  pour  into  pitcher  and 
serve.  Some  add  soda  after  the  glasses  are  filled,  and  stir 
rapidly  for  "  sparkling  lemonade." 


Drinks. 


19? 


LEMONADE — NO.  2. 

To  one  quart  of  water  use  three  lemons  and  two  cups  sugar. 
Use  ice  water  in  the  summer  and,  boiling  water  in  winter.  Hot 
lemonade  taken  going  to  bed  will  cure  a  hard  cold.  Straw- 
berries in  cold  lemonade  improves  it. 

GRANDMOTHER'S  HARVEST  DRINK 

One  quart  of  water,  table-spoon  sifted  ginger,  three  heaping 
table-spoons  sugar,  half  pint  vinegar. 

LEMON  SYRUP. 

Take  the  juice  of  twelve  lemons,  grate  the  rind  of  sis  in  it, 
let  it  stand  over  night,  then  take  six  pounds  of  white  sugar 
and  make  a  thick  syrup,  when  it  is  quite  cool  strain  the  juice 
into  it  and  squeeze  as  much  oil  from  the  grated  rind  as  will 
suit  the  taste;  a  tablespoon  in  a  goblet  of  water  will  make  a 
delicious  drink  on  a  hot  day,  far  superior  to  that  prepared 
from  the  stuff  commonly  sold  as  lemon  syrup. 

PARIS  PUNCH. 

One  pint  green  tea,  one-half  pint  brandy,  add  three  lemons 
and  sugar. 

CLARET  PUNCH. 

Six  bottles  claret,  9  oranges, 

4  lemons  cut  in  slices,  2  pounds  white  sugar, 

One-half  gallon  ice  water. 

SHERBETS. 

Wash  ripe  fruit  (strawberries,  currants,  pine-apples,  cherries 
or  raspberries)  and  pass  first  through  a  coarse  sieve  and  then 
through  a  cloth;  to  every  quart  juice  add  a  quart  water, 
sweeten  to  taste  by  mixing  thoroughly  with  powdered  sugar, 
bottle  and  surround  with  ice,  serve  in  wine-glasses.  Pine- 
apples must  be  grated  before  straining.  Grapes,  especially  the 
Catawba  and  Scuppernong,  are  excellent  for  this  purpose,  and 
even  the  wild-fox  grape  may  be  used.  They  must  be  mashed 
and  the  juice  washed  out  with  water. 


198 


Drinks, 


RASPBERRY  SHRUB. 

Place  red  raspberries  in  a  stone  jar,  cover  them  with  good 
cider  vinegar,  let  stand  over  night;  next  morning  strain,  and 
to  one  pint  of  juice  add  one  pint  of  sugar,  boil  ten  minutes 
and  bottle  while  hot. 

CREAM  SODA  WITHOUT  A  FOUNTAIN. 

Coffee  4  pounds,  water  3  pints,  3  nutmegs  grated,  whites  of 
10  eggs  well  beaten,  gum  arabic  1  ounce,  oil  of  lemon  20 
drops,  mix  all  and  place  over  a  gentle  fire  and  stir  about  30 
minutes,  then  strain  and  divide  into  two  parts;  into  one-half 
put  super-carbonate  of  soda  8  ouuces,  and  into  the  other  half 
put  tartaric  acid  6  ounces;  shake  well,  and  when  cold  ready 
for  use  by  pouring  4  dessert-spoons  from  both  into  separate 
glasses,  which  are  one-third  full  of  cold  water;  stir  each  and 
pour  together,  and  you  have  a  nice  drink.  You  can  flavor  it 
with  other  oils. 


Food  for  the  Sick, 


199 


FOOD  FOR  THE  SICK. 


ARROWROOT  CUSTARD. 

One  table-spoon  of  arrowroot,  one  pint  of  milk,  one  egg, 
two  table-spoons  sugar;  mix  the  arrowroot  with  a  little  of  the 
cold  milk;  put  the  rest  of  the  milk  on  the  fire  and  boil,  and 
stir  in  the  arrowroot,  and  egg  and  sugar,  well  beaten  together, 
scald  and  pour  into  cups  to  cool,  Any  flavoring  the  invalid 
prefers  may  be  added. 

BEEF  BROTH. — Mrs.  F.  M.  W. 

Cut  in  small  pieces  one  pound  of  good  lean  beef,  put  on  in 
two  quarts  cold  water  and  boil  slowly,  keeping  it  well  covered, 
one  and  one-half  hours,  then  add  half  a  tea  cup  tapioca  which 
has  been  soaked  three-quarters  of  an  hour  in  water  enough  to 
cover,  and  boil  half  an  hour  longer.  Some  add  with  the  tapioca 
a  small  bit  of  parsley,  and  a  slice  or  two  of  onion.  Strain  be- 
fore serving,  seasoning  slightly  with  pepper  and  salt.  It  is 
more  strengthening  to  add,  just  before  serving,  a  soft  poached 
egg.  Rice  may  be  used  instead  of  tapioca,  straining  the 
broth,  and  adding  one  or  two  table-spoons  rice,  soaked  for  a 
short  time,  and  then  boiling  half  an  hour. 

BEEF  TEA. 

Cut  pound  best  lean  steak  in  small  pieces,  place  in  glass 
fruit  jar  perfect  one)  cover  tightly  and  set  in  a  pot  of  cold 
water,  heat  gradually  to  boil,  and  continue  this  steadily  three 
or  four  hours  until  the  meat  is  like  white  rags  and  the  juice 
thoroughly  extracted;  season  with  very  little  salt,  and  strain 
through  a  wire  strainer.  Serve  either  warm  or  cold.  To  pre- 
vent jar  toppling  over,  tie  a  string  around  the  top  part,  and 


200 


Food  for  the  Sick. 


hang  over  a  stick  laid  across  the  top  of  pot.  When  done,  set 
kettle  off  stove  and  let  cool  before  removing  the  jar  and  in 
this  way  prevent  breakage.  Or  when  beef  tea  is  wanted  for 
immediate  use,  place  in  a  common  pint  bowl  (yellow  ware), 
add  very  little  water,  cover  with  saucer,  and  place  in  a  moder- 
ate oven ;  if  in  danger  of  burning  add  a  little  more  water. 

BROILED  BEEFSTEAK. 

Many  times  a  small  piece  of  "tenderloin  "  or  "  porterhouse" 
is  more  wholesome  for  an  invalid  than  broths  and  teas,  and  with 
this  may  be  served  a  potato,  roasted  in  the  ashes,  dressed  with 
sweet  cream,  or  a  little  butter,  and  salt,  or  nicely  cooked 
tomatoes.  Have  the  steak  from  half  an  inch  to  an  inch  thick, 
broil  carefully  two  or  three  minutes  over  hot  coals,  turning 
often  with  a  knife  and  fork,  so  as  not  to  pierce  it.  When  done 
put  on  a  small  dish,  season  slightly  with  salt  and  pepper  and 
a  small  bit  of  butter,  garnish  with  the  potato  and  serve  hot. 

BROILED  CHICKEN,  QUAIL,  SQUIRREL  OR  WOOD- 
COCK.— Mrs.  W.  W. 

Any  of  these  must  be  tender.  Take  the  breasts  of  the  first 
two,  or  the  thighs  of  the  others;  place  on  hot  coals  or  on  a 
broiler,  turning  often  to  prevent  burning.  When  done  remove 
the  burned  parts,  if  any,  season  slightly  with  butter,  pepper 
and  salt,  and  serve  at  once. 

CHICKEN  BROTH. — Miss.  M.  B.  Jacobs. 

Take  the  first  and  second  joint  of  a  chicken,  boil  in  one 
quart  of  water  till  very  tender  and  season  with  a  very  little 
salt  and  pepper. 

CRUST  COFFEE. 

Toast  bread  very  brown,  pour  on  boiling  water,  strain  and 
add  cream  and  sugar,  and  nutmeg  if  desired. 

CREAM  SOUP. — Mrs.  Mary  A.  Tomson. 

One  pint  boiling  water,  half  tea-cup  cream,  add  broken 
pieces  of  toasted  bread  and  a  little  salt. 


Food  for  the  Sick. 


201 


EGG  GRUEL, 

Beat  the  yolk  of  an  egg  with  a  table-spoon  of  sugar,  beating 
the  white  separately,  add  a  tea-cup  of  boiling  water  to  the 
yolk,  then  stir  in  the  white  and  add  any  seasoning.  Good  for 
a  cold. 

UNCOOKED  EGG. 

This  is  quite  palatable,  and  very  strengthening,  and  may  be 
prepared  in  a  variety  of  ways.  Break  an  egg  into  a  goblet 
and  beat  thoroughly,  add  a  tea-spoon  sugar,  and  after  beating 
a  moment  add  a  tea-spoon  or  two  of  brandy  or  port  wine,  beat 
well  and  add  as  much  rich  milk,  or  part  cream  and  milk,  as 
there  is  of  the  mixture.  Or,  omit  brand}',  and  flavor  with  any 
kind  of  spice,  or,  milk  need  not  be  added,  or  the  egg  may  be 
beaten  separately,  stirring  in  lightly  the  well -whipped  whites 
at  the  last. 

FEVER  DRINK. 

Pour  cold  water  on  wheat  bran,  let  boil  half  an  hour,  strain 
and  add  sugar  and  lemon  juice.  Pour  boiling  water  on  flax- 
seed, let  stand  till  it  is  ropy;  pour  into  hot  lemonade  and 
drink. 

GRAHAM  GEMS  FOR  INVALIDS. 

Mix  Graham  flour  with  half  milk  and  half  water,  add  a  little 
salt,  beat,  making  the  batter  thin  enough  to  pour;  have  the  gem 
pan  very  hot,  grease  it,  fill  as  quickly  as  possible  and  return 
immediately  to  a  hot  oven;  bake  about  thirty  minutes.  Prac- 
tice will  teach  just  the  proper  consistency  of  the  batter,  and 
the  best  temperature  of  the  oven.  It  will  not  be  good  unless 
well  beaten. 

JELLICE. 

One  half  teaspoon  currant,  lemon  or  cranberry  jelly  put  into 
a  goblet,  beat  well  with  two  table-spoons  water,  fill  up  with 
ice-water,  and  you  have  a  refreshing  drink  for  a  fever  patient. 

26 


202 


Food  for  the  Sick 


MULLED  BUTTERMILK. 

Put  on  good  buttermilk,  and  when  it  boils  add  the  well- 
beaten  yolk  of  an  egg.  Let  boil  up  and  serve.  Or,  stir  into 
boiling  buttermilk  thickening  made  of  cold  buttermilk  and 
flour.    This  is  excellent  for  a  convalescing  patient. 

MILK  PORRIDGE. 

Place  on  stove  in  skillet  one  pint  new  sweet  milk  and  a  very 
little  pinch  of  salt,  when  it  boils  have  ready  sifted  flour,  and 
spriukle  with  one  hand  into  the  boiling  milk,  stirring  all  the 
while  with  a  spoon.  Keep  adding  flour  until  it  is  about  the 
consistency  of  thick  molasses. 

RICE  WATER. 

Take  of  rice  two  ounces,  let  it  be  well  washed,  and  add  to  it 
two  quarts  water;  boil  it  for  an  hour  and  a  half,  and  then  add 
sugar  and  nutmeg  as  much  as  may  be  required.  To  be  taken 
ad  libitum.  Rice,  when  boiled  for  a  considerable  time, 
assumes  a  gelatinous  form,  and,  mixed  with  milk  is  a  very 
excellent  diet  for  children.  It  possesses,  in  some  measure,  a 
constipating  property,  which  may  be  increased  by  boiling  the 
milk. 

SAGO  CUSTARD. 

Soak  two  table-spoons  sago  in  a  tumbler  of  water  an  hour 
or  more,  then  boil  in  same  water  until  clear,  and  add  a  tum- 
bler of  sweet  milk ;  when  it  boils  add  sugar  to  taste,  then  o 
a  beaten  egg  and  flavoring. 

SICK  ROOM  WASH. 

The  following  makes  a  delicious,  refreshing  and  cooling 
wash  for  the  sick  room : 

Take  of  rosemary,  wormwood,  lavender,  rue,  sage  and  mint, 
a  large  handful  of  each.  Place  in  a  stone  jar,  and  turn  over  it 
one  gallon  of  strong  cider  vinegar,  cover  closely,  and  keep  near 
the  fire  for  four  days,  then  strain,  and  add  one  ounce  pounded 
camphor  gnm.    Bottle,  and  keep  tightly  corked. 


Hints  for  Care  of  the  Sick. 


203 


HINTS  FOR  CARE  OF  THE  SICK. 


For  Worms. — Give  rue  tea. 

For  Colds. — Drink  hot  pennyroyal  tea. 

For  Colic  in  Children. — -Give  catnip  tea. 

Beef  Tea.— To  make  beef  tea  more  palatable  for  some  pa- 
tients, freeze  it 

For  Burns.— Lime  water,  olive  oil,  and  glycerine,  equal 
parts;  applied  on  lint. 

Liniment. — Three  ounces  each  of  tincture  of  opium,  cam- 
phorated oil,  and  soap  liniment. 

Cure  for  Wounds  from  Rusty  Nails. — Dip  fat  pork  in  tur- 
pentine and  bind  it  on  the  wound. 

To  Cure  Chilblains. — To  one  ounce  kerosene  oil  add  one 
grain  morphine;  also  good  for  burns. 

For  Quinsy. — Gargle  with  water  as  hot  as  can  be  borne. 
This  gives  great  relief,  even  in  severe  cases. 

Frosted  Feet. — Take  a  raw  onion,  cut  in  halves,  dip  it  in 
salt,  and  rub  the  afflicted  parts  with  it  a  few  times. 

For  Sick  Headache. — Whenever  the  symptoms  are  felt  com- 
ing on,  drink  a  cup  of  thoroughwort  or  boneset  tea. 

For  Stiff  Joints. — Oil  made  by  trying  up  common  angle- 
worms is  excellent  to  apply  to  sinews  drawn  up  by  sprains  or 
disease. 

For  Sore  Throat. — Take  five  cents'  worth  chlorate  of 
potassa,  dissolve,  and  take  a  tea-spoon  every  hour,  and  also 
gargle  with  it. 


Hints  for  Care  of  the  Sick. 


For  Rheumatism. — To  one  pint  alcohol  add  one  table-spoon 
pulverized  potash,  and  a  lump  of  gum  camphor  the  size  of  a 
walnut.    Use  as  a  liniment. 

To  Stop  Bleeding.— Apply  wet  tea  leaves  or  scrapings  of 
sole  leather  to  a  fresh  cut  and  it  will  stop  the  bleeding,  or  ap- 
ply a  paste  of  flour  and  vinegar. 

Foe  Dressing  Cuts,  Wounds,  or  Sores. — Surgeon's  solution 
of  carbolic  acid  and  pure  glycerine  mixed  in  equal  parts,  and 
applied  on  soft  lint  or  linen  cloth. 

To  Stop  Bleeding  at  the  Nose. — Bathe  the  feet  in  very  hot 
water,  drinkiug  at  the  same  time  a  pint  of  cayenne  pepper  tea, 
or  hold  both  arms  above  the  head. 

Alum  Whey. — Mix  half  ounce  powdered  alum  with  one  pint 
sweet  milk,  strain,  and  add  sugar  and  nutmeg;  it  is  good  in 
hemorrhages,  and  sometimes  for  colic. 

Remedy  for  Piles. — Mix  a  tea-spoon  of  sulphur  with  a  tea- 
cup of  milk,  and  take  twice  a  day,  morning  and  night,  until 
improvement  takes  place;  then  take  occasionally. 

Dyspepsia. — A  simple  and  effectual  remedy  for  dyspepsia  is 
to  abstain  from  drinking  immediately  before  or  during  meals, 
and  for  an  hour  afterward.  Also,  use  no  milk  in  either  tea  or 
coffee. 

To  Absorb  Bad  Air. — In  cases  of  small  pox,  scarlet  fever, 
or  other  fever,  onions  sliced  and  kept  in  the  room  wilPabsorb 
the  bad  air;  the  fever  will  soon  disappear;  they  must  be 
changed  very  often. 

Cure  for  Felon. — When  a  felon  first  makes  its  appearance 
take  the  inside  skin  of  an  egg-shell  and  wrap  it  around  the 
part  affected.  When  the  pressure  becomes  too  painful  wet  it 
with  water,  and  keep  it  on  twelve  hours. 

To  Remove  Warts. — Touch  the  warts  with  caustic  potassa, 
or  liquor  potassa,  or  acetic  acid.  The  operation  is  not  pain- 
ful, does  not  discolor  the  skin,  and  removes  the  warts  in  a  short 
time,  leaving  the  skin  perfectly  smooth. 


Hints  for  Care  of  the  Sick. 


205 


For  Ivy  Poisoning. — A  simple  and  effectual  remedy  for  ivy 
poisoning,  is  said  to  be  sweet  spirits  of  nitre.  Bathe  the  parts 
affected  two  or  three  times  during  the  day,  and  the  next  morn- 
ing scarcely  any  trace  of  the  poison  will  remain. 

For  Buens  and  Bruises. — Apply  peach-tree  leaves,  the 
smooth  side  next  the  skin,  and  bind  them  on.  For  burns, 
when  there  is  danger  of  mortification,  or  even  if  it  has  already 
set  in,  bind  on  strips  of  cloth  dipped  in  clean  tar. 

Cherokee  Liniment. — One  ounce  gum  camphor,  dissolved 
in  alcohol,  one  ounce  each  of  spirits  turpentine,  sweet  oil, 
hemlock  oil,  origanum  oil,  and  cedar  oil,  two  ounces  spirits  of 
hartshorn.    Use  externally.    Shake  well  before  using. 

For  the  Lungs. — A  quart  (or  less  if  too  strong)  of  tar,  stir- 
red six  minutes  in  a  gallon  of  water,  and  one-fourth  of  a  tum- 
bler taken  four  times  a  day,  an  hour  or  two  after  meals,  is  said 
to  clear  the  lungs  and  give  greater  ease  in  public  speaking. 

Cure  for  Milk-Crust.— Fresh  mutton  tallow  melted  and 
applied  very  thick,  once  or  twice  a  day;  wash  once  a  week, 
or  oftener,  with  white  Castile  soap;  apply  fresh  tallow  after 
washing,  it  will  allay  the  burning  and  itching;  no  medicine  is 
needed. 

For  a  Cold. — Cayenne  pepper  tea  for  a  cold.  Put  a  quar- 
ter of  a  tea-spoon  of  cayenne  in  a  tea-cup ;  pour  over  hot  water 
and  sweeten  with  sugar.  Or,  steep  horse-radish  in  a  gill  of 
vinegar,  add  a  gill  of  honey  and  take  a  tea-spoon  every 
twenty  minutes. 

For  Erysipelas. — A  simple  poultice  made  from  cranberries, 
pounded  fine,  and  applied  in  a  raw  state,  is  said  to  be  a  cer- 
tain cure;  or  slip  off  the  outer  bark  of  elder,  break  up  the 
wood  with  the  inner  bark,  and  steep  in  buttermilk ;  drink,  and 
apply  to  the  parts  affected. 

To  Prevent  a  Child  Coughing  at  Night. — Boil  the  strength 
out  of  ten  cents  worth  of  Seneca  snake-root  in  one  quart  of 
soft  water;  strain  through  a  cloth,  boil  down  to  a  pint,  add 
one  cup  powdered  sugar  made  into  a  thick  molasses.  Give 
one  tea-spoon  on  going  to  bed. 


206 


Hints  for  Care  of  the  Sick. 


To  Prevent  Taking  Cold. — If  out  in  cold  weather  with 
insufficient  clothing  or  wrappings,  fold  a  newspaper  and  spread 
across  the  chest.  Persons  having  weak  lungs  can  in  this  way 
make  for  themselves  a  very  cheap  and  perfect  lung  protector. 
Large  papers  spread  between  quilts  at  night  add  much  to  the 
warmth. 

For  Sore  Mouth  in  Nursing  Babies. — A  tea-spoon  each  of 
pulverized  alum  and  borax,  half  a  salt-spoon  of  pulverized 
nut-galls,  a  table-spoon  honey;  mix,  and  pour  on  it  half  a  tea- 
cup boiling  water;  let  settle,  and  with  a  clean  linen  rag  wash 
the  mouth  four  or  five  times  a  day,  using  a  fresh  piece  of  linen 
every  day. 

Bad  Breath. — Bad  breath  from  catarrh,  foul  stomach,  or 
bad  teeth,  may  be  temporarily  relieved  by  diluting  a  little 
bromo  chloralum  with  eight  or  ten  parts  of  water,  and  using  it 
as  a  gargle,  and  swallowing  a  few  drops  just  before  going  out. 
A  pint  of  bromo  chloralum  costs  fifty  cents,  but  a  small  vial 
full  will  last  a  long  time. 

Catarrh  Cold. — Ten  drops  carbolic  acid,  and  seven  and  a 
half  each  of  iodine  and  chloroform;  heat  a  few  drops  over  a 
spirit  lamp  in  a  test  tube,  holding  the  mouth  of  the  tube  to 
the  nostrils  as  soon  as  volatization  is  effected.  Repeat  every 
two  minutes,  until  the  patient  sneezes  a  number  of  times,  when 
the  troblesome  symptoms  will  disappear. 

Treatment  of  Diphtheria. — I  wish  to  suggest  to  physicians 
in  treating  diphtheria,  to  use,  internally,  a  very  weak  solution 
of  carbolic  acid,  and  for  the  throat  or  fauces  a  solution  of 
hydrochloric  acid,  about  the  strength  of  strong  cider  vinegar. 
I  have  treated  every  case  successfully  so  far  with  the  above 
named  remedies.  Croup  is  relieved  instantly  with  the  acid 
solution.  As  far  as  my  experience  goes,  the  last  named  rem- 
edy stops  all  morbid  development  in  the  throat  as  surely  as  a 
hoe  will  stop  pig-weed  on  a  hot,  sunny  day.  Apply  it  to  the 
throat  with  a  brush  or  sponge,  or  use  as  a  gargle. — Dr.  Batch- 
elder. 


Hints  for  Care  of  the  Sick. 


207 


Neuralgia. —  One-half  dram  sal-ammonia  in  one  ounce 
camphor-water.  Take  a  tea-spoonful  several  times  live  min- 
utes apart  until  relieved.  Another  simple  remedy  is  horse- 
radish. Grate,  and  mix  in  vinegar,  the  same  as  for  table  pur- 
poses, and  apply  to  the  temple  when  the  face  or  head  is 
affected,  or  the  wrist  when  the  pain  is  in  the  arm  or  shoulder. 

To  Cuke  a  Felon. — Procure  five  or  six  lemons,  cut  off  the 
end  of  one,  thrust  the  sore  finger  into  the  lemon,  and  let  it 
stay  till  the  lemon  is  warm ;  proceed  in  the  same  way  till  all 
the  six  are  used.  Or,  put  a  piece  of  Spanish  fly  plaster  over 
the  spot  affected,  and  that  will  draw  the  trouble  to  the  surface; 
or,  on  the  first  appearance,  apply  a  poultice  of  the  common 
Fleur  de  Lis  root  well  mashed.    It  will  cure  in  a  short  time. 

Mustakd  Plaster. — Mix  with  boiling  water,  vinegar,  or 
white  of  an  egg  (the  latter  is  best  when  a  blister  is  not 
wanted),  to  consistency  the  same  as  if  for  the  table.  Some 
add  a  little  flour  when  not  wanted  so  strong.  Spread  on  half 
a  thin  muslin  cloth,  cover  with  the  other  half,  or  put  on  cloth, 
and  put  over  it  a  thin  piece  of  gauze;  apply,  and  when 
removed,  wash  the  skin  with  a  soft  sponge,  and  apply  a  little 
sweet  cream  or  oil. 

Sure  Cure  for  Croup. — Boil  pigs'  feet  in  water,  without 
salt,  and  let  it  stand  over  night;  in  the  morning  skim  off  the 
fat  (which  will  be  formed  in  a  cake  on  top),  put  it  in  a  tin 
pan,  boil  until  all  water  is  evaporated,  bottle,  and  keep  for 
use.  Give  a  tea-spoon  every  fifteen  minutes  on  the  appearance 
of  the  first  s}Tniptoms,  and  apply  freely  to  chest  and  throat, 
rubbing  well.  A  celebrated  physician  says  a  child  cannot 
have  the  croup  if  pigs'  feet  oil  is  administered  at  the  first 
symptoms.  Or,  warm  a  tea-spoon  with  a  little  lard  in  it,  or 
goose-grease;  thicken  with  sugar,  and  give  it  to  the  child;  it 
may  produce  vomiting,  which  is  always  desirable,  thus  break- 
ing up  the  membrane  that  is  forming.  Apply  lard  or  goose- 
grease  to  throat  and  chest,  with  raw  cotton  or  flannel.  Care 
should  be  taken,  removing  only  a  small  piece  at  a  time  of  these 
extra  wraps  to-  prsvent  taking  cold. 


20S 


Hints  for  Care  of  the  Sick. 


Antidotes  to  Poisons. — The  first  thing  to  do  is  to  cause 
their  rejection  by  vomiting,  to  do  which  place  mustard  mixed 
with  salt  on  the  tongue,  or  give  large  quanties  of  lukewarm  water, 
or  tickle  the  throat  with  a  feather.  These  failing,  instantly  resort 
to  active  emetics,  like  tartar  emetic,  sulphate  of  copper,  or  sul- 
phate of  zinc.  After  vomiting  has  taken  place  with  these, 
continue  it  if  possible  by  copious  draughts  of  warm  water  till 
the  poison  is  entirely  removed.  Of  course,  if  vomiting  can- 
not be  induced,  the  stomach  pump  must  be  employed,  especial- 
ly if  arsenic  or  narcotics  have  been  taken. 

A  Cure  for  Small-Pox  and  Scarlet  Fever. — Sulphate  of 
zinc  one  grain,  foxglove  (digitalis)  one  grain,  half  a  tea-spoon 
sugar;  mix  with  two  table-spoons  water;  when  thoroughly 
mixed  add  four  ounces  of  water.  Take  a  spoonful  every  hour. 
Either  disease  will  disappear  in  twelve  hours.  For  a  child, 
smaller  doses,  according  to  age.  A  correspondent  of  the 
Stockton  (Cal.)  Herald  claims  to  have  personally  known  of 
hundreds  of  cases  of  the  successful  use  of  this  recipe  for  6mall 
pox,  and  says  that  it  will  prevent  or  cure  the  disease  though 
the  pitting  be  filling.   It  is  harmless  if  taken  by  a  well  person. 

For  Rheumatism: — (Internal  Remedy). — Three  drams  iodide 
of  potash,  dissolved  in  one-half  pint  of  hot  water.  Take  a 
table-spoonful  three  times  a  day,  and  drink  lemonade  at  inter- 
vals between.  (External  Remedy — Liniment). — Two  ounces 
tincture  arnica,  one  ounce  camphor,  one  ounce  belladonna,  one 
ounce  cannabis  indica,  one-half  ounce  aconite  (if  neuralgia), 
one-half  ounce  oil  hemlock,  one-half  ounce  wormwood,  one- 
half  ounce  sassafras  (if  there  are  humors),  one-fourth  ounce 
origanum,  one-fourth  ounce  tar  (if  there  are  sores),  one-fourth 
ounce  cajeput,  one-eighth  ounce  peppermint,  one-fourth  ounce 
chloroform,  six  ounces  aqua  ammonia.  Wet  a  flannel  with 
this  liniment,  and  rub  the  parts  affected:  or  place  the  flannel 
over  the  rheumatic  part  and  cover  it  with  thick  paper,  and 
place  near  it  a  warm  brick.  Immediate  relief  will  be  obtained. 


Hints  for  Care  of  the  Sick. 


200 


For  Constipation. — The  same  remedies  will  not  affect  all 
persons.  One  or  two  figs  eaten  fasting  is  sufficient  for  some, 
and  they  are  especially  good  in  the  case  of  children,  as  there 
is  no  trouble  in  getting  them  to  take  them.  A  spoonful  of 
bran  in  a  glass  of  water  is  a  simple  remedy  and  quite  effect- 
ive. One  or  two  tumblers  of  hot  water  will  move  almost  every 
one,  but  it  is  difficult  to  take.  In  chronic  cases  a  faithful 
manipu]ation  and  moving  of  the  bowels  and  limbs  with  gentle 
rotary  movement  with  the  open  palm,  and  giving  all  natural 
motions  to  the  parts,  with  proper  diet,  will  almost  invariably 
secure  the  desired  result.  It  has  been  known  to  cure  a  case  of 
life-long  habit,  where  inherited,  too,  and  although  it  involves 
patience  and  perseverance  it  is  certainly  better  than  to  suffer 
the  ills  that  result  from  so  many  patent  medicines  and  quack 
nostrums.  "  An  ounce  of  prevention  is  worth  a  pound  of 
cure,"  and  regularity  of  habit  in  this  matter  is  the  great  thing 
to  be  impressed  on  people  generally. 

Shock  on  collapse  from  lightning,  sudden  and  severe  in- 
juries, burns  extending  over  a  large  extent  of  surface,  or  pow- 
erful emotions,  produces  something  analogous  to  fainting. 
Place  the  patient  flat  on  the  back,  with  the  head  raised  not 
more  than  an  inch,  and  give  a  tea-spoon  of  brandy  in  a  table- 
spoon of  water,  every  minute  for  six  or  eight  minutes.  If  the 
temperature  of  the  body  has  been  raised,  and  the  action  of  the 
heart  is  restored,  enough  has  been  given.  Application  of  heat 
to  the  stomach  and  extremities  is  useful.  The  nausea  and 
vomiting  that  sometimes  accompany  it  may  be  allayed  by 
swallowing  whole  small  chips  of  ice,  split  off  by  standing  a 
piece  with  grain  upright  and  splitting  off  a  thin  edge  with  the 
point  of  a  pin.  Ammonia  applied  to  the  nostrils  is  often  use- 
ful, and  cologne  on  a  handkerchief  is  sometimes  of  service. 

Cold  Cream  for  Chapped  Lips. — One-half  ounce  spermaceti, 
twenty  grains  white  wax,  two  ounces  pure  oil  sweet  almonds, 
one  ounce  pure  glycerine,  six  drops  oil  of  rose  ;  melt  first 
three  ingredients  together  and  when  cooling  add  the  glycerine 
and  oil  of  rose,  stirring  until  cold. 

37 


210 


Hints  for  Care  of  the  Sick. 


Blackberry  Cordial. — Put  a  half  bushel  of  blackberries  in 
a  preserving  kettle,  and  cook  until  scalded  through  well ;  strain 
and  press  out  all  the  juice;  put  juice  in  kettle  with  the  follow- 
ing spices  well  brokeu  up  and  put  into  a  bag:  one- quarter 
pound  allspice,  two  ounces  cinnamon-bark,  two  ounces  cloves, 
and  two  nutmegs;  add  loaf  sugar,  about  one  pound  to  every 
quart  of  juice,  or  more  if  preferred,  and  cook  slowly  ten  or 
fifteen  minutes:  remove  from  the  fire,  let  cool  a  little,  and  add 
good  pure  brandy  in  the  proportion  of  one  pint  to  every  three 
pints  of  juice.  A  smaller  quantity  may  be  made,  using  the 
same  proportions.  This  is  an  excellent  remedy  for  diarrhoea 
and  other  diseases  of  the  bowels. 

Cough  Mixture. — Take  five  cents  worth  each  of  elecampane, 
spikenard,  dandelion,  sarsaparilla,  licorice-root,  Indian  turnip, 
comfrey  and  hoarhound.  Boil  roots  in  two  quarts  of  soft 
water  until  it  is  reduced  to  one  pint,  add  one  pound  of  loaf- 
sugar,  and  give  one  table-spoon  three  times  a  day,  before  eat- 
ing; or  dissolve  one-fourth  pound  gum-arabic  in  half  pint 
boiling  water,  add  a  half  tea-cup  sugar  and  honey,  and  two 
table-spoons  lemon  juice,  steep  for  five  or  ten  minutes;  bottle 
and  cork,  add  water,  and  take;  or  boil  one  ounce  each  of 
licorice -stick  and  anise-seed,  and  half  ounce  senna  in  one  quart 
of  water,  ten  minutes;  strain,  add  two  tea-cups  molasses  or 
honey,  boil  down  to  a  pint,  and  then  bottle. 

Catarrh. — Wet  and  cold  at  the  surface  of  the  body  is  a 
cause  of  catarrh,  but  the  most  fruitful  source  is  wet  and  cold 
feet,  and  }'et  there  is  nothing*  more  easy  to  avoid.  Warm 
socks,  horse-hair  souls,  and  goloshes  will  always  keep  the  feet 
dry  and  warm.  It  does  not  seem  to  be  understood  that  al- 
though a  boot  or  shoe  may  not  leak,  yet  if  the  sole  is  damp,  it 
by  evaporation  conducts  away  the  heat  from  the  foot,  and 
ought  never  to  be  worn  when  not  exercising.  The  neck  should 
be  covered  lightly,  but  too  much  covering  predisposes  to 
catarrhal  troubles  by  causing  congestion  of  the  membrane 
affected  in  this  disease.  Bed-rooms  ought  to  be  well  aired, 
and  warmed,  if  possible,  by  an  open  fire,  in  damp  chilly 
weather. 


Hints  for  Care  of  the  Sick. 


211 


Fainting. — Debility  of  the  nervous  system  favors  fainting. 
The  head  should  be  kept  low;  and  if  the  patient  faints  in  a 
chair,  the  simplest  treatment  is  to  grasp  the  back  of  it  and 
depress  it  until  the  floor  is  reached,  while  another  holds  the 
knees  so  as  to  prevent  slipping  off  the  side.  The  patient  will 
usually  recover  by  the  time  the  head  has  reached  the  floor.' 

Lip  Salves. — One  gill  sweet  oil,  one  ounce  white  wax,  three- 
quarters  of  an  ounce  spermaceti.  Dissolve  them  over  the  fire 
and  stir  till  cool.  Another:  Oil  of  sweet  almonds  eight 
ounces,  white  wax  three  ounces,  spermaceti  three  ounces,  rho- 
dium fifty  drops,  and  white  sugar  candy  form  an  excellent  lip 
salve. 

Shock  from  Cold  Water. — Prostration  from  drinking  or 
bathing  in  cold  water  while  exhausted  by  heat  or  exercise 
should  be  treated  as  described  for  shock  from  other  causes. 
Cold  water  should  be  taken  in  small  quantities. 

For  Chapped  Hands,  Face  and  Lips. — Ten  drops  carbolic 
acid  in  one  ounce  glycerine;  apply  freely  at  night.  Pure  mut- 
ton tallow  is  also  excellent. 


212 


Hints  for  the  Wei! 


HINTS  FOR  THE  WELL. 


Cleanliness  is  next  to  godliness. 

Always  rest  before  and  after  a  hearty  meal. 

Do  not  eat  too  much.    Do  not  eat  late  at  night. 

Food,  especially  bread  should  never  be  eaten  hot. 

Children  should  never  be  dressed  in  tight  clothes. 

Never  sit  in  a  damp  or  chilly  room  without  a  lire. 

Supper  just  before  going  to  bed  is  highly  injurious. 

Never  enter  a  room  where  a  person  is  sick  with  an  infectious 
disease  with  an  empty  stomach. 

When  sick,  send  for  a  good  physician,  and  as  you  value  your 
health  and  life,  have  nothing  to  do  with  quacks. 

The  condiments,  pepper,  ginger,  etc.,  are  less  injurious  in 
summer.  Fat  beef,  bacon,  and  hearty  food  may  be  eaten 
more  freely  in  winter. 

Most  people  drink  too  much  and  too  fast.  A  small  quantity 
ol  water  sipped  slowly  satisfies  thirst  as  well  as  a  pailful 
swallowed  at  a  draught. 

Let  the  amount  of  the  meal  bear  some  relation  to  future 
needs  as  well  as  present  appetite;  but  it  is  better  to  carry  an 
extra  pound  in  your  pocket  than  in  your  stomach. 

Drink  at  meals  should  be  taken  at  the  close,  and  not  too 
strong  or  hot.  D}  speptics  especially  should  drink  sparingly. 
Children  need  more  than  adults,  but  too  much  is  injurious. 

Eat  something  within  an  hour  after  rising,  especially  if 
obliged  to  labor  or  study  ;  but  avoid  both  these  before  break- 
fast, if  possible,  and  particularly  exposure  to  malaria  or  con- 
tagion. 


Hints  for  the  Well, 


213 


The  lungs  should  be  trained  to  free,  full  and  vigorous  action. 
"The  breath  is  the  life."  A  man  will  exist  for  days  without 
food,  but  when  the  breath  is  cut  off  life  ceases. 

Bad  cooking  may  spoil  good  food.  Pork,  if  eaten  at  all, 
should  be  thoroughly  cooked.  Avoid  frying  meat;  boil,  roast 
or  broil  it,  beginning  with  a  high  heat;  for  soups  begin  luke- 
warm. 

A  small  quantity  of  plain,  nourishing  soup  is  a  wholesome 
first  course  at  dinner.  Rich  soups  are  injurious  to  persons  of 
weak  digestion,  and  a  large  quantity  of  liquid  food  is  not 
beneficial  to  adults. 

Three  full  meais  daily  are  customary,  but  the  number,  the 
relative  quantity  and  quality,  and  the  intervals  between  them 
are  largely  matters  of  opinion,  habit  and  convenience;  regu- 
larity is  the  important  thing. 

Exercise  before  breakfast  should  be  very  light,  and  it  is  bet- 
ter to  take  a  cracker  or  some  trifle  before  going  out,  especially 
in  a  miasmatic  climate.  Early  breakfasts  are  a  necessity  to 
the  vouns;  and  growing. 

Remember  that  when  the  stomach  is  sour  after  eating,  the 
food  is  actually  rotting — that  is  a  nauseating  word  but  it  ex- 
presses the  absolute  facts  in  the  case — and  it  means  that  some 
of  the  rules  above  given  have  been  violated. 

Eat  in  pure  air  and  in  pleasant  company ;  light  conversa- 
tion and  gentle  exercise  promote  digestion,  but  hard  work  of 
any  kind  retards  it.  Avoid  severe  bodily  or  mental  labor  just 
before  and  for  two  hours  after  a  full  meal. 

Adults  need  to  eat  at  regular  intervals  two  or  three  times  a 
day,  allowing  time  for  each  meal  to  be  fully  digested  before 
another  is  taken.  It  would  spoil  a  loaf  of  bread,  half  baked, 
to  poke  a  lump  of  cold  dough  into  the  middle  of  it. 

Use  good,  palatable  food,  not  highly  seasoned ;  vary  in  quan- 
tify and  quality,  according  to  age,  climate,  weather,  and  occu- 
pation. Unbolted  or  partially  bolted  grains  are  good  and 
sufficient  food  for  men,  but  nature  craves  variety.  As  a  rule, 
the  flesh  of  meat-eating  animals  is  not  wholesome  food.  Hot, 
soft  bread  digests  slowly. 


214 


Hints  for  the  Well, 


Don't  eat  too  fast;  the  digestive  organs  are  something  like 
a  stove,  which  if  choked  up  and  out  of  order,  burn  slowly,  and 
if  you  keep  piling  in  fuel,  grows  more  and  more  choked.  The 
wiser  course  is  to  let  it  burn  down,  and  put  in  fuel  only  when 
needed.  It  is  a  foolish  notion  that  food  always  keeps  up  the 
strength.  Only  what  we  digest  helps  us ;  all  beyond  that  is  a 
tax  upon  the  system,  and  exhausts  the  strength  instead  of 
increasing  it. 

Masticate  well;  five  minutes  more  at  dinner  may  give  you 
better  use  of  an  hour  afterward.  Drink  little  at  meals,  and 
never  a  full  glass  of  very  hot  or  very  cold  liquid.  Never  wash 
down  a  mouthful.    Avoid  waste  of  saliva. 

Avoid  tobacco,  alcohol  in  all  its  forms,  and  all  stimulants. 
Every  healthy  man  is  better,  stronger,  has  a  clearer  head, 
more  endurance,  and  better  chances  for  a  long  life,  if  free  from 
the  habitual  use  of  stimulants.  The  boy  who  begins  the  use 
of  tobacco  and  liquors  early  is  physically  ruined. 

Avoid  colds,  and  break  up  as  soon  as  possible  when  taken. 
As  soon  as  conscious  that  the  pores  are  closed,  keep  warm 
within  doors,  drink  warm  ginger  tea,  relax  the  bowels,  and 
take  a  vapor  bath.  Breaking  a  cold  up  early  often  saves  a 
severe  attack  of  congestion,  pneumonia,  and  often  even1;  a 
fever. 

Panaceas  are  prima  facie  humbugs;  their  makers1  and 
takers,  vendors,  and  their  recommenders  arejknaves  or  fools,  or 
both.  Nature  cures  most  diseases  if  let  alone  or  aided  by 
diet  and  proper  care.  There  are  no  miracles  in  medicine; 
remember  that  to  keep  or  to  get  health  generally  requires  only 
a  recognition  of  Nature's  powers,  with  knowledge  of  anatomy 
and  physiology,  experience  and  common  sense. 

Never  sleep  in  clothing  worn  during  the  da}r,  and  let  that 
worn  during  the  night  be  exposed  to  the  air  b}r  day.  Three 
pints  of  moisture,  filled  with  the  waste  of  the  bod}^,  are  given 
off  every  twenty-four  hours,  and  mostly  absorbed  by  the 
clothing.  Exposure  to  air  and  sunlight  purifies  the  clothing 
and  bedding  of  the  poisons  which  nature  is  trying  to  get  rid 
of,  and  which  would  otherwise  be  brought  again  into  contact 
with  the  body. 


Hints  for  the  Well. 


215 


The  Nose. — Excessive  wiping,  snuffing,  and  blowing,  es- 
pecially in  children,  deforms  the  nose,  and  should  be  practiced 
only  when  necessary  for  cleanliness.  A  nose  leaning  to  one 
side,  caused  by  wiping  in  one  direction,  may  be  cured  by  using 
the  handkerchief  with  the  other  hand,  or  by  wearing  occasion- 
ally an  instrument  surgeons  employ  for  that  purpose.  Large, 
fleshy  noses  are  reduced  by  wearing  at  night  a  contrivance 
which  compresses  the  artery  that  supplies  the  nose.  Red 
noses  become  so  by  exposure  to  heat  or  the  sun,  by  alcoholic 
drinks,  or  b}^a  debilit3T  of  the  blood-vessels  of  the  skin.  The 
latter  cause  is  removed  by  gentle  friction  and  cold  bathing  of 
the  feet. 

The  Hands. — The  use  of  gloves,  especially  kids,  help  to 
preserve  the  softness  of  the  hands.  Cleanliness  and  sprink- 
ling with  orris-root  counteracts  excessive  perspiration.  Warts 
are  removed  by  steeping  the  hands  in  warm  water  for  half  an 
hour,  and  then  paring  away  the  white  and  insensible  surface. 
The  nails  should  be  cut  frequently,  always  in  oval  shape.  The 
nail  brush  should  be  full  and  soft.  It  should  be  rubbed  on  a 
cake  of  soap  and  then  used  vigorously.  Biting  nails  is  a  bad 
habit.  To  break  it  up  in  children,  dip  the  ends  of  the  fingers 
in  a  solution  of  aloes. 

The  Feet. — The  largest  pores  of  the  body  are  located  in  the 
bottom  of  the  feet.  For  this  reason  the  feet  should  be  fre- 
quently and  thoroughly  washed,  and  the  stockings  changed 
often.  If  great  cleanliness  is  not  observed,  these  great  pores 
become  absorbent,  and  the  poisons  given  off  are  taken  back 
into  the  system.  The  nails  ought  to  be  cut  squarely.  Blisters 
ma}-  be  prevented  by  rubbing  the  feet,  after  washing,  with 
glycerine.  Bunions  are  caused  by  wearing  shoes  too  tight  or 
too  short.  They  are  difficult  to  get  rid  of,  but  may  be  al- 
leviated by  wearing  easy-fitting  shoes,  poulticing  and  putting 
a  rubber  ring  around  the  spot.  Corns,  which  are  caused  by  a 
continued  pressure  on  the  foot,  may  be  prevented  by  wearing 
woolen  stockings  and  shoes  that  fit  welL  To  cure,  soak  feet 
for  half  an  hour,  nightly,  in  hot  water  in  which  two  table- 


216 


Hints  for  the  Well. 


spoons  of  soda  have  been  dissolved.  After  each  bath  scrape 
as  much  away  as  possible.  Soft  corns  may  be  removed  by 
sprinkling  a  piece  of  cotton  with  prepared  chalk,  and  placing 
it  between  the  toes  where  the  corn  is.  The  chalk  absorbs  the 
moisture  and  a  cure  is  soon  effected. 

The  Neck. — Too  tight  collars  and  neckerchiefs  are  apt  to 
produce  permanent  swelling  of  the  throat. 

Freckles. — Grate  horse-radish  fine;  let  it  stand  a  few  hours 
in  buttermilk,  then  strain  and  use  the  wash  night  and  morn- 
ing. Or  squeeze  the  juice  of  a  lemon  into  half  a  goblet  of 
water  and  use  the  same  way.  Most  of  the  remedies  for 
freckles  are  poisonous  and  cannot  be  used  with  safety. 
Freckles  indicate  a  defective  digestion,  and  consist  in  deposits 
of  some  carbonaceous  or  fatty  matter  beneath  the  skin.  The 
diet  should  be  of  a  nature  that  bowels  and  kidne}^s  will  do 
their  duty.  Daily  bathing,  with  much  friction,  should  not  be 
neglected,,  and  the  Turkish  bath  taken  occasionally,  if  con- 
venient. 

Dandruff. — Dip  a  rag  in  coal  oil  and  rub  the  scalp  thor- 
oughly once  or  twice  a  week.  The  dandruff  will  soon  disap- 
pear, and  the  hair  will  take  on  a  new  and  vigorous  growth. 
Be  careful  and  not  put  on  too  much  oil  at  a  time,  and  also 
avoid  the  use  of  false  hair  in  any  manner.  This  remedy  is  a 
sure  cure  for  dandruff  and  falling  hair,  and  the  smell  of  the 
oil  soon  passes  off. 

Food. — A  good  complexion  never  goes  with  a  bad  diet- 
Strong  coffee,  hot  bread  and  butter,  heated  grease,  highly 
spiced  soups,  meats  or  game,  hot  drinks,  alcoholic  liquors,  fat 
meats,  all  are  damaging  to  the  beauty.  Strong  tea,  used 
daily,  will  after  a  time  give  its  skin  the  appearance  of  leather. 
Coffee  affects  the  skin  less  but  the  nerves  more,  and  a  healthy 
nervous  system  is  necessary  to  beauty.  Late  suppers,  over- 
eating at  meals,  eating  between  meals,  the  use  of  candies, 
sweetmeats,  preserves,  etc.,  produce  pimples  and  blotches. 

Pimples — Are  caused  by  improper  diet,  and  can  never  be 
cured  except  by  correcting  the  habits.   Cosmetics  only  injure. 


The  Household. 


217 


THE  HOUSEHOLD. 


It  is  surprising  to  find  how  many  things  there  are  to  learn 
about  housekeeping,  and  about  certain  minor  details,  too,  with 
which  we  had  supposed  ourselves  thoroughly  acquainted. 
Almost  every  day  we  find,  from  experience,  some  improved 
method  of  doing  some  simple  thing. 

The  following  bits  of  information,  gained  from  experience, 
observation  and  reading,  may  add  something  to  the  general 
fund  of  household  knowledge: 

In  washing  tumblers  and  goblets,  they  should  be  placed  in 
hot  soapy  water,  the  sides  touching  the  water  first,  to  prevent 
them  from  cracking.  After  they  are  wiped  they  will  look 
clearer  if  they  are  not  turned  upside  down  until  they  are  put 
away.  They  should  be  thoroughly  scalded  after  being  washed. 
Yeast  jars  or  jugs  should  be  washed  in  cold  water.  If  hot 
water  is  used  the  yeast  adheres  to  them. 

A  strong  solution  of  hyposulphite  of  soda  is  said  to  be  excel- 
lent for  cleaning  silver. 

Unslaked  lime  is  excellent  for  cleaning  small  steel  articles, 
such  as  jewelry,  buckles,  and  the  like. 

Dish-water  and  soap-suds  poured  about  the  roots  of  young 
fruit  trees,  currant  and  raspberry  bushes,  etc.,  facilitate  their 
growth. 

Milk  which  is  turned  or  changed  may  be  sweetened  and 
rendered  fit  for  use  again  by  stirring  in  a  little  soda. 

Straw  matting  should  be  washed  with  a  cloth  dampened 
in  salt  water.  Indian  meal  sprinkled  over  it  and  thoroughly 
swept  out  will  also  cleanse  it  finely. 

Boiling  cod-fish  in  hard  water  makes  the  fish  firmer. 

28 


218 


The  Household. 


Soap  should  be  cut  in  pieces  that  it  may  get  hard. 
A  little  wet  whiting  will  get  oil  out  of  boards.    Wet  salt 
will  get  ink  out. 

A  little  white  wax  will  clear  starch  nicely. 
Milk  takes  ink  out  of  prints. 

If  silver  is  dipped  in  clear  hot  water — no  soap — and  imme- 
diately wiped  with  a  soft  linen  cloth,  it  will  look  much  nicer 
than  if  soap  is  used. 

A  solution  of  chloride  of  iron  will  remove  nitrate  of  silver 
stains  from  the  hands. 

Gold  bronze  for  furniture  is  a  mixture  of  copal  varnish 
mixed  with  gold  colored  bronze  powder.  The  last  is  bisul- 
phate  of  tin. 

Don't  use  a  good  table  knife  to  scrape  a  kettle,  or  pare  pota- 
toes, or  for  any  other  than  table  service.  Keep  old  ones  with 
faulty  handles,  or  odd  ones  that  belong  to  no  set  for  such  com- 
mon purposes.  Never  let  nice  ones  be  picked  up  and  used 
indiscriminately. 

A  solution  of  oxalic  acid  will  remove  ink  spots  from  books 
without  injuring  the  print. 

In  washing  windows  a  narrow-bladed  wooden  knife,  sharply 
pointed,  will  take  out  the  dust  that  hardens  in  the  corners  of 
the  sash.  Dry  whiting  will  polish  the  glass,  which  should  first 
be  washed  with  weak  black  tea  mixed  with  a  little  alcohol. 
Save  the  tea  leaves  for  that  purpose. 

Castile  soap  and  water  can  be  used  on  oil  paintings  without 
danger,  care  being  taken,  of  course,  not  to  wet  the  back,  or  let 
water  through  cracks. 

For  the  ordinary  dusting  of  pictures  a  silk  handkerchief 
should  be  used. 

An  ounce  of  carbolic  acid  to  a  gallon  of  whitewash  will  keep 
from  cellars  the  disagreeable  odor  which  taints  milk  and  meat, 
Added  to  paste  and  mucilage  it  prevents  mould. 

Remove  all  vegetables  from  the  cellar  as  soon  as  they  begin 
to  decay,  and  ventilate  well  so  that  the  walls  may  not  become 
foul.  Use  chloride  of  lime  as  a  disinfectant  freely,  after  taking 
care  to  make  it  as  neat  and  clean  as  possible. 


The  Household. 


219 


Vegetables  keep  best  at  as  low  a  temperature  as  possible 
without  freezing.  Apples  bear  a  very  low  temperature.  Sweet 
potatoes  (which  keep  well  packed  in  dry  forest  leaves)  and 
squashes  require  a  warm,  dry  atmosphere. 

Friction  matches  should  never  be  left  where  mice  will  get 
them,  as  they  carry  them  to  their  nests  and  sometimes  ignite 
them.  They  are  poison  to  children,  and  are  dangerous  to 
women,  who  ignite  them  by  stepping  on  them,  and  endanger- 
ing their  clothing  from  fire. 

When  a  chimney  takes  fire  throw  salt  into  the  fire  and  shut 
off  the  draught  as  much  as  possible,  and  it  will  burn  out 
slowly, 

Carpets  may  be  cleaned  without  taking  up  by  sprinkling 
them  over  with  moist  tea  leaves  and  sweeping  well.  Then 
sprinkle  fuller's  earth  very  thickly  over  the  grease  spots,  cover 
with  a  sheet  of  brown  paper,  and  iron  with  a  warm  smoothing 
iron  until  the  spots  disappear. 

Kerosene  and  powdered  lime,  whiting,  or  wood  ashes  will 
scour  tins  with  the  least  labor, 

Spots  can  be  taken  out  of  marble  with  finely  powdered  pum- 
ice stone  and  verjuice.  Cover  the  spots  and  allow  the  stuff  to 
remain  for  twelve  hours,  then  rub  clean,  dry  and  rinse. 

Soapstone  hearths  are  first  washed  in  pure  water  and  then 
rubbed  with  powdered  marble  or  soapstone,  put  on  with  a  piece 
of  the  same  stone. 

To  make  hens  lay  in  winter  keep  them  warm;  keep  corn 
constantly  by  them,  but  do  not  feed  it  to  them.  Feed  them 
with  meat  scraps  when  lard  or  tallow  has  been  tried,  or  fresh 
meat.  Some  chop  green  peppers  finely,  or  mix  cavyenne  pepper 
with  corn  meal  to  feed  them.  Let  them  have  a  frequent  taste 
of  green  food,  and  a  little  gravel  and  lime,  or  clam  shells. 

Never  paper  a  wall  over  old  paper  and  paste.  Always  scrape 
down  thoroughly.  Old  paper  can  be  got  off  by  dampening 
with  saleratus  and  water.  Then  go  over  all  the  cracks  of  the 
wall  with  plaster  of  Paris,  and  finally  put  on  a  wash  of  a  weak 
solution  of  carbolic  acid.  The  best  paste  is  made  out  of  rye 
flour,  with  two  ounces  of  glue  dissolved  in  each  quart  of  paste; 


220 


The  Household. 


half  an  ounce  of  powdered  borax  will  improve  the  mixture. 

Papering  and  painting  are  best  clone  in  cold  weather,  espe- 
cially the  latter,  for  the  wood  absorbs  the  oil  of  paint  much 
more  in  warm  weather;  while  in  cold  weather  the  oil  hardens 
on  the  outside,  making  a  coat  which  will  protect  the  wood 
instead  of  soaking  into  it. 

Fruit  stains  may  be  removed  from  the  fingers  in  the  following 
manner:  Mix  together  half  an  ounce  of  cream  tartar  and  half 
an  ounce  of  salt  of  sorrel;  apply  a  solution  of  this  to  the 
fingers  and  the  stains  will  disappear.  Dilute  sulphuric  acid 
may  be  used,  but  care  should  be  taken  that  none  of  it  touches 
any  fabric,  as  the  acid  will  destroy  it. 

INSECT  PESTS. 

To  keep  off  flies  paint  walls  or  rub  over  picture  frames  with 
laurel  oil. 

To  keep  off  mosquitos  rub  the  exposed  parts  with  kerosene. 
The  odor  is  not  noticed  after  a  few  minutes,  and  children 
especially  are  much  relieved  by  its  use. 

To  prevent  moths  in  carpets  wash  the  floor  before  laying 
them,  with  spirits  of  turpentine  or  benzine. 

Red  cedar  chips  are  good  to  keep  in  drawers,  wardrobes, 
closets,  trunks,  etc.  They  are  a  positive  preventive  of  the  rav- 
ages of  moths. 

Ants  may  be  driven  away  by  putting  Scotch  snuff  wherever 
they  are  in  the  habit  of  going  for  food. 

Sprigs  of  wintergreen  or  ground  ivy  will  drive  away  red 
ants ;  branches  of  wormwood  will  serve  the  same  purpose  for 
black  ants. 

Black  beetles  may  be  quickly  got  rid  of  by  scattering  cucum- 
ber peelings  at  night  near  their  haunts.  The  beetles  will 
disappear  like  magic. 

To  get  rid  of  mosquitos,  take  a  few  live  coals  on  a  shovel  or 
a  chafing  dish,  and  burn  upon  them  some  brown  sugar  in  }-our 
bed-rooms  and  parlors,  and  you  effectually  banish  or  destroy 
every  mosquito  for  the  night. 


The  Household, 


221 


Pumpkin  seeds  are  very  attractive  to  mice,  and  traps  baited 
with  them  will  soon  destroy  the  Utile  pests. 

Pounded  glass  mixed  with  dry  corn  meal,  and  placed  within 
the  reach  of  rats,  it  is  said,  will  banish  them  from  your  prem- 
ises; or  sprinkle  cayenne  pepper  in  their  holes. 

A  sort  of  trade-secret  among  the  upholsterers,  it  is  said,  is 
this  recipe  for  ridding  furniture  of  moths :  A  set  of  furniture 
that  seemed  alive  with  the  larvae,  and  from  which  hundreds  of 
the  pests  had  been  picked  and  brushed,  was  set  into  a  room  by 
itself.  Three  gallons  of  benzine  were  purchased,  at  thirty 
cents  a  gallon,  retail.  Using  a  small  watering-pot,  with  a  fine 
rose  sprinkler,  the  whole  upholstery  was  saturated  through 
and  through  with  the  benzine.  Result :  every  moth,  larva  and 
egg  was  killed.  The  benzine  dried  out  in  a  few  hours,  and  its 
entire  odor  disappeared  in  three  or  four  days.  Not  the  slight- 
est harm  happened  to  the  varnish,  or  wood,  or  fabric,  or  hair 
stuffing.  That  was  months  ago,  and  not  a  sign  of  a  moth  has 
since  appeared.  The  carpets  were  also  well  sprinkled  around 
the  sides  of  the  room  with  equally  good  effect, 

CARE  OF  BUTTER. 

To  keep  butter  fresh,  work  until  solid,  make  into  rolls,  take 
two  gallons  water,  one  pint  white  sugar,  one  level  table-spoon 
saltpetre — make  the  brine  strong  enough  with  salt  to  bear  an 
egg;  boil  and  skim.  Let  cool,  pour  over  butter,  and  keep 
under  brine  with  a  weight.  Butter  will  thus  keep  for  a  year 
as  sweet  as  when  churned. 

To  make  artificial  butter,  render  beef  suet  at  a  very  low 
temperature,  churn  it  in  fresh  buttermilk  with  yolks  of  eggs, 
and  treat  like  butter  when  removed. 

To  sweeten  rancid  butter,  put  fifteen  drops  chloride  of  lime 
to  a  pint  of  cold  water,  and  work  the  butter  in  it  until  every 
particle  has  come  in  contact  with  the  water;  then  work  it  over 
in  pure  cold  water, 

Preparation  for  Keeping-  Butter. —One-fourth  pound  salt- 
petre, one-fourth  pound  white  sugar,  one  pound  salt,  One 
table-spoon  of  this  mixture  to  one  pound  of  butter. — Mrs. 
Robert  Saltsman. 


222 


The  Household. 


Brine  foe  the  Preservation  of  Butter, — To  three  gallons 
of  brine  strong  enough  to  bear  an  egg,  add  a  quarter  of  a 
pound  of  nice  white  sugar  and  one  table-spoon  of  saltpeter. 
Boil  the  brine,  and  when  it  is  cold  strain  it  carefully.  Make 
your  butter  into  rolls,  and  wrap  each  roll  separately  in  a  clean, 
white  muslin  cloth,  tying  up  with  a  string.  Pack  a  large  jar 
full,  weight  the  butter  down,  and  pour  over  the  brine  until  all 
is  submerged.  This  brine  will  keep  really  good  butter  per- 
fectly sweet  and  fresh  for  a  whole  year.  Be  careful  and  not 
put  upon  ice  butter  that  you  wish  to  keep  for  any  length  of 
time.  In  summer  when  the  heat  will  not  admit  of  butter  be- 
ing made  into  rolls,  pack  loosely  in  small  jars,  and,  using  the 
same  brine,  allow  it  to  cover  the  butter  to  the  depth  of  at  least 
four  inches.  This  excludes  the  air  and  answers  very  near  as 
well  as  the  first  method  suggested. 

CARE  OF  MEATS. 

To  cure  hams  and  shoulders  make  a  pickle  of  salt  and  water, 
with  one  ounce  saltpeter  and  half  a  pint  molasses  or  one-fourth 
pound  brown  sugar  for  each  ham  of  ordinary  size;  pack  hams 
as  closely  as  possible  in  barrel,  sprinkle  on  a  little  salt,  and 
pour  over  them  the  pickle  boiling  hot.  Let  them  remain  two 
weeks,  take  out,  drain  a  few  days,  and  smoke  according  to 
taste.    Corn-cobs  or  saw-dust  are  best  for  this  purpose. 

To  keep  hams  after  curing  wrap  in  brown  paper,  and  place 
in  a  tight  bag  so  as  to  secure  from  flies ;  or  if  preferred,  cut 
ham  in  slices  suitable  for  cooking,  trim  off  the  rind,  and  pack 
as  compactly  as  possible  in  a  stone  jar;  over  the  top  pour 
melted  lard  so  as  to  completely  exclude  the  air.  When  ham 
is  wanted  for  use,  scrape  off  the^lard,  jremove*a|layer  of  meat, 
and  always  be  particular  to  melt  the  lard  and  return  it  imme- 
diately to  the  jar.  Prepared  in  either  of  the  above  ways  ham 
will  keep  through  the  season. 

Or,  to  preserve  smoked  meats  through  the  summer,  pack  in 
clean,  sweet  hay  before  flies  come;  cover  the  "box  or  barrel 
tight,  and  keep  in  a  dry  place. 


The  Wardrobe. 


223 


THE  WARDROBE. 


Bonnets,  cloaks,  hats,  shawls,  scarfs,  and  the  like,  will  last 
clean  and  fresh  much  longer  if  the  dust  is  carefully  removed 
from  them  by  brushing  and  shaking  after  returning  from  a 
ride  or  walk. 

A  teaspoon  of  powdered  borax  dissolved  in  a  quart  of  tepid 
water  is  good  for  cleaning  old  black  dresses  of  silk,  cashmere 
or  alpaca. 

Butter  will  remove  tar  spots.  Soap  and  water  will  after- 
ward take  out  the  grease  stain. 

Black  shoes  may  be  bronzed  by  a  strong  solution  of  aniline 
red  in  alcohol. 

Four  parts  borax  and  three  parts  Epsom  salts,  mixed  with 
three  or  four  parts  warm  water  to  one  part  of  the  combined 
substances,  is  said  to  form  an  excellent  fireproof  wash  for 
clothes.    It  should  be  used  immediately  after  preparation. 

When  a  silk  hat  get  wet  shake  off  the  water,  rub  the  way 
the  nap  lies  with  a  clean  linen  cloth  or  silk  handkerchief,  and 
hang  some  distance  from  the  fire  to  dry,  a  few  hours  after 
brush  with  a  soft  brush. 

To  take  mildew  from  kid  gloves  dry  the  gloves  perfectly, 
stretch,  rub  the  spots  well  with  a  rather  stiff  brush,  and  then 
with  a  small  quantity  of  egg  albumen  or  flour  paste.  This 
will  not  injure  them,  nor  leave  an}*  unpleasant  smell. 

To  clean  dirty  coat  collars  apply  benzine,  and  after  an  hour 
or  more,  when  the  grease  has  become  softened,  rub  it,  or  re- 
move with  soap-suds. 


224 


The  Wardrobe. 


Spots  in  cloth  or  calico,  produced  by  an  acid,  may  be  re- 
moved by  touching  the  spot  with  spirits  of  hartshorn.  Spots 
produced  by  an  alkali  may  be  removed  by  moistening  them 
with  vinegar  or  tartaric  acid. 

Two  ounces  of  common  tobacco  boiled  in  a  gallon  of  water 
is  used  by  the  Chatham  street  dealers  for  renovating  old 
clothes.  The  stuff  is  rubbed  on  with  a  stiff  brush.  The 
goods  are  nicely  cleansed,  and,  strange  to  add,  no  tobacco 
smell  remains. 

To  renovate  black  silk  take  the  water  potatoes  have  been 
boiled  in,  take  a  sponge,  rub  the  silk  carefully  on  wrong  side 
on  a  clean  table;  let  silk  remain  on  table  until  dry.  It  will 
look  like  new. 

To  clean  velvet  invert  a  hot  flatiron,  place  over  it  a  single 
thickness  of  wet  cotton  cloth,  lay  on  this  the  velvet,  wrong  side 
next  the  wet  cloth,  rub  gently  with  a  dry  cloth  until  the  pile 
is  well  raised;  take  off  the  iron,  lay  on  a  table,  and  brush  it 
with  a  soft  brush  or  cloth. 

To  clean  ribbons  dissolve  white  soap  in  boiling  water;  when 
cool  enough  to  bear  the  hand,  pass  the  ribbons  through  it, 
rubbing  gently,  so  as  not  to  injure  the  texture;  rinse  through 
lukewarm  water,  and  pin  on  a  board  to  dry. 

To  Restore  Velvet. — When  velvet  gets  crushed  from  pres- 
sure, hold  the  parts  over  a  basin  of  hot  water,  with  the  lining 
of  the  dress  next  the  water.  The  pile  will  soon  rise  and 
assume  its  original  beauty. 

To  Press  Satin. — All  satin  goods  should  be  pressed  on  the 
right  side.  To  press  and  clean  black  silk,  shake  out  all  the 
dust,  clean  well  with  a  flannel  cloth,  rubbing  it  up  and  down 
over  the  silk ;  this  takes  out  all  the  dust  that  may  be  left ; 
take  some  good  lager  beer  and  sponge  the  silk  both  on  the 
wrong  and  right  side,  sponging  across  the  width  of  the  silk, 
and  not  down  the  length,  and  with  a  moderately  warm  iron, 
press  what  is  intended  for  the  wrong  side.  After  sponging,  it 
is  better  to  wait  a  few  minutes  before  pressing,  as  the  irons 
will  not  be  so  apt  to  stick. 


The  Wardrobe. 


•1^ 


To  Take  Out  Mildew.—  Wet  the  cloth,  and  rub  on  soap  and 
chalk  mixed  together,  and  lay  in  the  sun;  or  lay  the  cloth  in 
buttermilk  for  a  short  time,  take  out,  and  put  in  the  hot  sun: 
or  put  lemon  juice  on,  and  treat  in  the  same  way. 

To  Clean  Alpaca. — Put  goods  in  a  boiler  half  full  of  cold 
rain  water  and  let  boil  three  minutes.  Have  read}'  a  pail  of 
indigo  water  (  very  dark  with  indigo),  place  goods  in  it,  after 
wringing  out  of  boiling  water;  let  remain  half  an  hour,  wring 
out,  and  iron  while  damp. 

To  Clean  Black  Lace. — Take  the  lace  and  wipe  off  all  the 
dust  carefully,  with  a  cambric  handkerchief;  then  pin  it  on  a 
board,  inserting  a  pin  at  each  projecting  point  of  lace.  Spot 
it  all  over  with  table  beer,  and  do  not  remove  the  pins  until  it 
is  perfectly  dry.    It  will  look  quite  fresh  and  new. 

To  Clean  Straw  Hats. — Rub  the  soiled  straw  with  a  cut 
lemon,  and  wash  off  the  juice  with  water.  Stiffen  with  gum 
water. 

To  Remove  Grease  from  Silk,  Cotton,  Linen  and  Worsted 
Goods. — Rub  magnesia  freely  on  both  sides  of  silk  or  worsted 
goods  and  hang  away.  Benzine,  ether,  or  soap  will  take  out 
spots  from  silk,  but  remember  the  goods  must  not  be  rubbed. 
Oil  of  turpentine  or  benzine  will  remove  spots  of  paint,  var- 
nish, or  pitch  from  white  or  colored  cotton  or  woolen  goods. 
After  using  it  they  should  be  washed  in  soap-suds  Spots 
from  sperm  candles,  stearine,  and  the  like,  should  be  softened 
with  ninety-five  per  cent,  alcohol,  then  sponged  off  with  a  weak 
alcohol  and  a  small  quantity  of  ammonia  added  to  it.  Hold- 
ing white  cotton  or  linen  over  the  fumes  of  burning  sulphur, 
and  wetting  in  warm  chlorine  water,  will  take  out  wine  or 
fruit  stains.  The  sooner  the  remedy  is  applied  after  any  of 
these  spots  or  stains  are  discovered,  the  more  effectual  the  res- 
toration. From  white  linen  or  cotton  by  soap-suds  or  weak 
lye,  and  from  calicoes  with  warm  soap-suds.  From  woolens 
by  soap-suds  or  ammonia.  On  silks  use  either^yolk  of  egg 
with  water,  magnesia,  ether,  benzine,  ammonia,  or  French 
chalk. 

29 


226 


The  Wardrobe. 


For  Cleaning-  Kid  Gloves,  Silk,  Etc. — One  gallon  deodor- 
ized benzine,  half  ounce  chloroform,  half  ounce  ether,  one 
ounce  alcohol,  one  ounce  oil  wintergreen.  This  preparation 
cleans  kid  gloves,  ostrich  feathers,  silk,  alpaca,  cashmere, 
broadcloth,  carpets,  straw  goods,  &c,  without  the  least  injury. 

To  Dress  Old  Silk  or  Satin. — Lay  your  goods  out  smooth 
on  a  clean  table;  have  all  stitches  picked  out;  then  with  the 
water  in  which  potatoes  have  been  boiled  in  for  dinner,  sponge 
goods  well,  and  let  lie  on  table  till  dry.  It  will  look  like  new 
silk.  Cashmere  can  be  made  to  look  like  new  by  spouging  in 
the  same  way,  only  use  ammonia  water. 

Black  for  Woolens. — One  ounce  blue  vitriol,  one  ounce 
extract  of  logwood  to  two  pounds  goods;  color  in  iron.  Dis- 
solve the  extract  over  night  in  warm  water;  pulverize  the  vit- 
riol, put  into  boiling  water  sufficient  to  cover  the  goods;  wash 
the  goods  well,  rinse  in  warm  water,  then  simmer  a  few  min- 
use  in  the  vitriol  water;  take  out,  wash  thoroughly  in  clear 
water,  then  dip  in  the  boiling  logwood  dye  till  the  color  is 
good,  stirring  often  and  lifting  up  so  it  will  get  the  air;  dry, 
then  wash  in  a  suds  and  rinse.  In  renovating  black  alpaca 
that  has  become  rusty,  dissolve  the  logwood  only,  as  nothing- 
is  needed  to  set  the  color.  Wash  the  goods  well  in  suds,  rinse, 
dip  in  logwood  dye,  boil  a  few  minutes,  stirring  and  lifting  to 
air.  When  dry,  wash  again  in  suds  and  rinse  in  water  in 
which  a  little  gum  arabic  has  been  dissolved,  and  press 
on  the  wrong  side  while  damp.  Dyed  in  this  way  the  color 
will  not  rub  off  more  than  from  new  goods,  and  looks  as  good 
as  new.  When  extract  of  logwood  is  used,  it  is  only  needful 
to  boil  enough  to  dissolve  before  putting  in  the  goods. 

To  Color  Woolen  Fine  Claret. — Boil  thirteen  pounds  of 
goods  two  hours  with  seven  pounds  of  camwood,  one-tenth 
pound  logwood,  and  one-fourth  pound  copperas  to  darken. 

To  Color  Woolen  Russian-Brown. — For  thirteen  pounds 
goods,  boil  two  ppunds  fustic  and  four  pounds  camwood  an 
hour,  and  if  too  light  color  add  one-tenth  pound  each  copperas 
and  alum,  to  darken. 


The  Wardrobe.  227 


Coloring. — In  coloring  always  use  plenty  of  water,  never 
crowd  the  goods,  taking  care  that  they  float  in  the  liquid.  In 
rinsing  always  use  plenty  of  clear  water,  and  in  preparing 
goods  for  coloring,  clean  off  all  dirt  and  grease  spots.  To  test 
color  of  dye,  pour  it  from  a  dish  held  high,  and  look  through 
it  at  the  light.  A  pound  of  extract  of  logwood  is  equal  to  four 
pounds  of  logwood  chips.  Fustic  should  be  boiled  in  a  sack 
of  open  texture;  the  other  ingredients  are  put  into  the  water. 
All  black  goods  should  be  washed  in  soap-suds  after  coloring. 

To  Color  Woolen  Bottle-Green. — Boil  ten  pounds  woolen 
with  one-tenth  pound  chrome,  and  one-fifth  pound  alum;  take 
out,  put  in  a  vessel  of  clean  water  three  pounds  fustic  and  one 
and  a  half  pounds  logwood,  and  boil  another  hour. 

To  Color  Purple. — For  every  pound  of  yarn  or  cloth  take 
two  ounces  Cudbear,  rinse  the  cloth  well  in  soap-suds,  then 
dissolve  the  Cudbear  in  hot  suds  (not  quite  boiling),  and  soak 
the  cloth  till  of  the  required  color.  The  color  is  brightened 
by  rinsing  in  alum  water. 

Dove  and  Slate  Colors,  all  shades,  are  made  by  boiling  in 
an  iron  vessel  a  tea-cup  of  black  tea  with  a  tea-spoon  of  cop- 
peras and  sufficient  water.  Dilute  this  till  you  get  the  shade 
wanted. 


228 


The  Laundry. 


THE  LAUNDRY. 


To  keep  flannels  from  shrinking,  pulling  them  and  drying 
quickly  has  more  to  do  in  keeping  the  garments  in  their 
original  shape  and  size  than  the  washing.  No  doubt  squeez- 
ing the  flannels  in  hot,  soapy  water,  instead  of  rubbing  them, 
is  the  better  way.  But  in  a  large  family,  where  there  are  four 
or  five  boys  to  wash  for,  and  of  course  there  are  numbers  of 
stockings  and  other  flannels  soiled,  we  should  quietly  permit 
them  to  be  rubbed. 

Nice  lace  should  be  soaked — not  washed — in  soapy  water, 
and  carefully  rinsed  in  fair  water.  Some  think  a  little  coffee 
added  to  the  water  gives  the  yellowish  tint  seen  in  nice  lace 
when  new.  It  should  neither  be  starched  nor  ironed.  The 
lace,  particularly  the  edge,  should  be  carefully  pulled  until 
dry,  and  then  placed  under  a  heavy  weight. 

Muslins,  cambrics,  or  any  stamped  cotton  goods,  look  much 
better  if  washed  in  thin  starch  water. 

Prints  that  are  likely  to  fade  if  washed  in  ordinary  soap- 
suds, will  retain  their  colors  perfectly  if  washed  in  starch - 
water. 

For  stiffening  shirt-bosoms,  collars  and  cuffs,  we  think  cold 
starch  greatly  preferable  to  the  boiled.  There  will  be  no 
trouble  in  ironing  them  if,  after  starching,  they  are  dipped 
quickly  into  clear  cold  water,  and  allowed  to  remain  folded  an 
hour  or  more  before  ironing.  Table  cloths,  napkins,  and,  in 
fact,  all  linen,  should  be  very  damp  when  ironed,  and  iron 
until  perfectly  dry. 


229 


To  Wash  Colored  Muslins. — Wash  in  warm  (not  hot)  soap 
suds,  made  with  soft  water  and  best  white  soap,  if  it  is  to  be 
had.  Do  not  soak  them,  and  wash  only  one  thing  at  a  time. 
Change  the  suds  as  sood  as  it  becomes  dingy,  and  put  the  gar- 
ments at  once  into  fresh  suds.  Rinse  first  in  clear  water, 
then  in  slightly  blued.  Squeeze  quite  dry,  but  don't  wring 
the  dress.  Hang  in  a  shady  place  where  the  sunshine  will 
not  strike  it,  as  that  fades  all  colors. 

To  Wash  Delicate  Colored  Muslins. — Boil  wheat  bran 
(about  two  quarts  to  a  dress)  in  soft  water  half  an  hour,  let  it 
cool,  strain  the  liquor,  and  use  it  instead  of  soap-suds;  it 
removes  dirt  like  soap,  keeps  the  color,  and  the  clothes  only 
need  rinsing  in  one  water,  and  even  starching  is  unnecessary. 
Suds  and  rinsing  water  for  colored  articles  should  be  used  as 
cold  as  possible.  Another  way  is  to  make  thick  corn  meal 
mush,  well  salted,  and  use  instead  of  soap;  rinse  in  one  or  two 
waters  and  do  not  starch. 

To  Bleach  Muslin. — For  thirty  yards  of  muslin,  take  one 
pound  of  chloride  of  lime,  dissolve  in  two  quarts  rain  water; 
let  cloth  soak  over  night  in  warm  rain  water,  or  long  enough 
to  be  thoroughly  wet;  wring  out  cloth  and  put  in  another  tub 
of  warm  rain  water  in  which  the  chloride  of  lime  solution  has 
been  poured.  Let  it  remain  for  about  twenty  minutes,  lifting 
up  the  cloth  and  airing  every  few  moments,  and  rinse  in  clear 
rain  water.  This  will  not  injure  the  cloth  in  the  least,  and  is 
much  less  troublesome  than  bleaching  on  the  grass. 

Washing  Fluid. — Dissolve  five  pounds  sal  soda  and  one  of 
borax  in  a  gallon  of  boiling  water ;  slake  one  pound  of  lime  in 
another  gallon  of  water,  pour  both  together  and  allow  to  stand 
till  perfectly  clear,  pour  off  into  glass  jars  and  keep  for  use. 
Put  clothes  to  soak  over  night  with  soap  on  the  soiled  parts; 
in  the  morning  wring  out,  put  into  a  boiler  filled  in  the  pro- 
portion of  one  pint  of  fluid  to  four  pails  of  water,  with  soap 
also  added.  Boil  for  ten  minutes,  take  out,  rub  through  one 
water,  and  rinse  through  two.  If  a  machine  is  used,  take 
from  the  boiler  to  the  machine,  and  rinse  as  above. 


230 


The  Laundry. 


To  Wash  Flannels  in  Boiling  Water. — Make  a  strong 
suds  of  boiling  water  and  soft  soap — hard  soap  makes  flannels 
stiff'  and  wiry — put  them  in,  pressing  them  clown  under  the 
water  with  a  clothes  stick;  when  cool  enough  rub  the  articles 
carefully  between  the  hands,  then  wring — but  not  through  the 
wringer — as  dry  as  possible,  shake,  snap  out,  and  pull  each 
piece  into  its  original  size  and  shape,  then  throw  immediately 
into  another  tub  of  boiling  water  in  which  you  have  thor- 
oughly mixed  some  nice  bluing.  Shake  them  up  and  down 
in  this  last  water  with  a  clothes  stick  until  cool  enough  for  the 
hands,  then  rinse  well,  wring,  shake  out  and  pull  into  shape — 
the  snapping  and  pulling  are  as  necessary  as  the  washing — 
and  hang  in  a  sunny  place  where  they  will  dry  quickly.  Man}" 
prefer  to  rinse  in  two  waters,  with  the  bluing  in  the  last,  and 
this  is  always  advisable  when  there  are  man}7  flannels. 

To  Make  Bluing  for  Clothes. — One  ounce  Prussian  blue, 
half  ounce  oxalic  acid.  Dissolve  in  one  quart  rain  water; 
strain;  bottle. — Mrs.  A.  Bogers. 

To  Prevent  Blue  from  Fading. — To  prevent  blue  from  fad- 
ing, put  an  ounce  of  sugar  of  lead  into  a  pail  of  water,  soak 
the  material  in  the  solution  for  two  hours,  and  let  dry  before 
being  washed  and  ironed.    Good  for  all  shades  of  blue. 

Coffee  Starch. — Make  a  paste  of  two  table-spoons  best 
starch  and  cold  water;  when  smooth  stir  in  a  pint  of  perfectly 
clear  coffee,  boiling  hot;  boil  five  or  ten  minutes,  stir  with  a 
spermaceti  or  wax  candle,  strain,  and  use  for  all  dark  calicoes, 
percales  and  muslins. 

Flour  Starch. — Have  a  clean  pan  or  kettle  on  stove  with  one 
quart  boiling  water,  into  which  stir  three  heaping  table-spoons 
of  flour,  previously  mixed  smooth  in  a  little  cold  water;  stir 
steadily  until  it  boils,  and  then  often  enough  10  keep  from 
burning.  Boil  about  five  minutes,  strain  while  hot  through  a 
crash  towel.  The  above  quantity  is  enough  for  one  dress,  and 
will  make  it  nice  and  stiff'.  Flour  starch  is  considered  better 
for  all  calicoes  than  fine  starch,  since  it  makes  them  stiffer, 
and  the  stiffness  is  longer  retained. 


231 


To  Make  Fine  Starch. — Wet  the  starch  smooth  in  a  little 
cold  water,  in  a  large  tin  pan,  pour  on  a  quart  of  boiling  water 
to  two  or  three  table-spoons  starch,  stirring  rapidly  all  the 
while;  place  on  stove,  stir  until  it  boils,  and  then  occasionally. 
Boil  from  five  to  fifteen  minutes,  or  until  the  starch  is  perfectly 
clear.  Some  add  a  little  salt,  or  butter,  or  pure  lard,  or  stir 
with  a  sperm  candle;  others  add  a  tea-spoon  kerosene  to  one 
quart  starch;  this  prevents  the  stickiness  sometimes  so  annoy- 
ing in  ironing.  Either  of  the  above  ingredients  is  an  improve- 
ment to  flour  starch.  Many,  just  before  using  starch,  add  a 
little  bluing.  Gold  starch  is  made  from  starch  dissolved  in  cold 
water,  being  careful  not  to  have  it  too  thick;  since  it  rots  the 
clothes  it  is  not  advisable  to  use  it.  The  same  is  true  of  potato 
starch. 

Enamel  for  Shirt  Bosoms. — Melt  together  with  a  gentle  heat 
one  ounce  white  wax  and  two  ounces  spermaceti;  prepare  in 
the  usual  wa}^  a  sufficient  quantity  of  starch  for  a  dozen  bosoms, 
put  into  it  a  piece  of  this  enamel  the  size  of  a  hazel  nut,  and 
in  proportion  for  a  larger  number.  This  will  give  clothes  a 
beautiful  polish. 

Polish  for  Shirt  Fronts  and  Collars. — One  ounce  sper- 
maceti, one  ounce  white  wax,  one-half  table-spoon  castor  oil, 
two  ounces  gum  arabic  and  three  tea-spoons  salt  mixed.  Pro- 
cess: Melt  together  the  spermaceti,  wax  and  oil,  pulverize  the 
gum  arabic  and  mix  with  the  salt;  add  that:  then  melt  again 
and  cool.  One  table-spoon  of  polish  to  a  table-spoon  of  starch. 
Boil  the  starch  thirty  minutes. — Mrs.  Webb. 

Starch  Polish. — Take  common  dry  potato  or  wheat  starch 
sufficient  to  make  a  pint  of  starch  when  boiled.  Then  add 
half  a  drachm  of  spermaceti  and  half  a  drachm  of  white  wax, 
and  then  use  it  as  common  starch,  only  using  the  iron  as  hot 
as  possible.    In  this  manner  a  brilliant  polish  is  produced. 

Gall  Soap. — For  washing  woolens,  silks,  or  fine  prints  liable 
to  fade :  One  pint  beef's  gall,  two  pounds  common  bar  soap  cut 
fine,  one  quart  boiling  soft  water;  boil  slowly,  stirring  occa- 
sionally until  well  mixed;  pour  into  a  flat  vessel,  and  when  cold 
cut  into  pieces  to  dry. 


232 


The  Laundry. 


Bar  Soap. — To  make  fifteen  pounds.  Take  seven  pounds  of 
slry  kind  bar  soap;  cut  into  thin  slices  and  put  in  a  dish. 
Then  take  two  pounds  of  sal  soda,  one  pound  unslacked  lime 
and  put  into  another  dish.  Pour  over  it  two  gallons  of  soft 
water  (boiling),  and  stir  well.  Let  it  settle  and  pour  off  into 
the  dish  containing  the  soap.  Put  on  the  fire  and  let  it  remain 
until  the  soap  is  all  dissolved.  Dissolve  one  ounce  of  alum, 
and  two  of  borax.  Stir  the  soap  and  put  in  the  alnm  and  bo- 
rax just  as  the  soap  is  taken  from  the  fire.  Let  the  soap  cool 
and  then  put  in  one  ounce  of  benzine.  When  it  becomes  hard 
it  can  be  cut  into  any  sized  bars  desired.  The  same  ingredi- 
ents, in  the  same  proportion  and  made  the  same  way,  with  the 
exception  of  substituting  common  home-made  soft  soap,  will 
make  excellent  soft  soap. — Mrs.  Robert  Saltsman. 

Hard  Soap. — Four  gallons  of  water,  six  pounds  of  washing 
soda,  six  pounds  of  clean  fat,  three  and  one-half  pounds  of  stone 
lime.  Put  the  lime  and  soda  in  the  water  and  boil  until  the 
soda  is  dissolved;  then  pour  it  into  a  tub  and  let  it  settle;  then 
pour  off  the  water  gently,  with  as  little  lime  as  possible ;  then 
add  the  fat  and  boil  it  until  done.  Take  a  little  out  in  a  saucer, 
and  if  no  water  remains  under  when  cold  it  is  done.  Pour  it 
in  deep  pans,  or  a  tub,  and  when  cold  cut  in  bars. 

To  Remove  Ink  Stains. — While  an  ink  spot  is  fresh,  take 
warm  milk  and  saturate  the  stain;  let  it  stand  a  few  hours: 
then  apply  more  fresh  milk ;  rub  it  well  and  it  will  soon  disap- 
pear. If  the  ink  has  become  dry,  use  salt  and  vinegar  or  salts 
of  lemon. 

To  Remove  Fruit  Stains  From  Table  Linens. — Spread  the 
stained  parts  over  a  large  bowl  and  pour  on  boiling  water.  Re- 
peat several  times  before  putting  into  soap-suds. 

The  End  of  Ironmould. — To  remove  ironmould  from  linen, 
etc.,  take  tartaric  acid,  half  an  ounce:  powdered  salt  of  sorrel, 
half  an  ounce.  Mix.  Put  boiling  water  into  a  basin,  put  a 
plate  upon  it;  wet  the  spot  with  water,  dip  your  finger  into  the 
powder,  or  put  a  small  quantity  to  the  spot,  rub  it  gently,  and 
the  ink  or  ironmould  will  entirely  disappear,  without  the  least 
damage  to  the  lace,  lawn,  muslin,  etc. 


The  Laundry. 


233 


Care  of  Irons. — When  irons  become  rough  or  smoky,  lay  a 
little  fine  salt  on  a  flat  surface  and  rub  them  well;  it  will  pre- 
vent them  sticking  to  any  thing  starched,  and  make  them 
smooth;  or  scour  with  bath  brick  before  heating,  and  when  hot 
.rub  well  with  salt,  and  then  with  a  small  piece  of  beeswax  tied 
up  in  a  rag,  after  which  wipe  clean  on  a  dry  cloth.  A  piece  of 
fine  sandpaper  is  also  a  good  thing  to  have  near  the  stove,  or  a 
hard,  smooth  board  covered  with  brick  dust  to  rub  each  iron 
on  when  it  is  put  back  on  the  stove,  so  that  no  starch  may  re- 
main to  be  burnt  on.  Put  beeswax  between  pieces  of  paper  or 
cloth  and  keep  on  the  table  close  by  the  flat-iron  stand.  If  the 
irons  get  coated  with  scorched  starch,  rub  them  over  the  paper 
that  holds  the  wax  and  it  will  all  come  off.  Rubbing  the  iron 
over  the  waxed  paper,  even  if  no  starch  adheres,  adds  to  the 
glossiness  of  the  linen  that  is  ironed. 

To  Take  Out  Scorch. — If  a  shirt-bosom,  or  any  other  arti- 
cle, has  been  scorched  in  ironing,  lay  it  where  bright  sunshine 
will  fall  directly  on  -it.    It  will  take  it  entirely  out. 

Flat  Irons. — If  your  flat  irons  are  rough  and  smoky,  lay  a 
little  fine  salt  on  a  flat  surface  and  rub  them  well.  It  will  pre- 
vent them  from  sticking  to  anything  starched,  and  make  them 
smooth. 


30 


234 


House  Plants  and  Flowers. 


HOUSE  PLANTS  AND  FLOWERS. 


Few  things  are  necessary  for  the  successful  cultivation  of 
house  plants.  A  patient,  untiring  spirit  is  most  important. 
The  other  requisites  are  plenty  of  sunlight,  fresh  air,  and 
water  when  they  need  it  It  is  better  to  give  a  good  supply  of 
water  when  indicated  by  drooping  leaves,  than  to  give  a  little 
at  a  time  often.  Never  leave  pots  to  set  in  water  in  saucers 
except  the  calla  lily.  To  repot,  turn  plant  upside  down  on  the 
left  hand,  rap  pot  sharply  with  stick ;  this  will  loosen  it  from 
the  ball  of  earth ;  lift  it  off  and  place  the  plant  in  a  pot  two 
sizes  larger,  or  in  the  ground.  Do  not  have  the  soil  too  rich 
with  manure,  but  well  mixed,  and  composed  of  sod-soil,  wild 
or  leaf  mould,  and  well  rotted  stable  manure.  Cut  plants  back 
pretty  closely  when  you  change  them,  and  they  will  thrive 
better  afterwards.  "Water  well  at  first,  and  then  only  moisten 
slightly  until  they  begin  to  grow.  A  good  rule  for  watering 
plants  is  once  a  week  in  winter  when  the  weather  is  mild,  or 
when  it  has  moderated  have  a  gallon  watering-can  filled  with 
blood-warm  water,  stir  in  a  tea-spoon  of  aqua  ammonia,  and 
as  you  set  the  plants  in  a  convenient  place,  pour  in  pot  a 
plentiful  supply  of  this  warm  water,  and  after  this,  sprinkle 
well  with  warm  water  without  ammonia.  In  summer  two  or 
three  times  a  week  is  the  rule.  Ivies  need  large  pots,  and 
should  be  repotted  every  year  in  the  summer  time.  . 

A  good  way  to  start  slips  is  to  partly  break  off  the  slip,  but 
do  not  entirely  sever  it  from  the  parent  stock,  leaving  it  hang- 
ing for  ten  or  twelve  days ;  then  remove,  and  plant  in  a  box 
of  half  sand  or  brick  dust  and  half  leaf  mould,  and  it  will  be 
well  rooted  in  a  week.   Do  not  water  too  freely,  or  the  slip  will 


House  Plants  and  Flowers. 


235 


rot.  This  is  better  for  both  slip  and  plant,  as  the  slip  will  get 
nourishment  from  the  plant  while  healing  over,  and  its  remo- 
val will  not  weaken  the  plant  so  much. 

Hyacinths  are  very  attractive  flowers  for  window  gardening, 
and  at  the  same  time  require  very  little  care  or  trouble.  Get 
the  bulbs  in  the  fall  before  frost,  and  keep  in  a  cool  place  until 
December,  then  plant  each  one  in  a  four -inch  pot  with  soil 
one-fourth  sand,  one-fourth  well  rotted  manure,  one-fourth  gar- 
den or  sod  soil,  and  one-fourth  broken  bits  of  moss  and  leaf 
mould ;  water  thoroughly  at  first,  and  set  in  dark  closet  until 
the  first  of  January,  then  bring  to  light  and  give  plenty  of 
water.  A  very  good  way  is  to  set  half  a  dozen  or  more  pots 
in  a  large  dripping  pan,  pour  hot  (not  boiling)  water  in  the 
pan  and  let  stand  for  one  hour.  After  they  are  done  blooming 
let  them  dry  out  gradually.  They  will  not  bloom  the  second 
season  as  well  as  the  first. 

To  Keep  Plants  at  Night  Without  a  Fire. — Have  made  of 
wood  or  zinc,  a  tray  about  four  inches  deep,  with  a  handle  on 
either  end,  water  tight ;  paint  it  outside  and  in ;  put  in  each 
corner  a  post  as  high  as  the  tallest  of  your  plants,  and  it  is 
ready  for  use.  Arrange  your  flower  pots  in  it,  and  fill  between 
them  with  sawdust;  this  absorbs  the  moisture  falling  from  the 
plants  when  you  water  them  and  retains  the  warmth  acquired 
during  the  day,  keeping  the  temperature  of  the  roots  even. 
When  you  retire  at  night  spread  over  the  posts  a  blanket  or 
shawl,  and  there  is  no  danger  of  freezing.  The  tray  may  be 
placed  on  a  stand  or  table  and  easily  moved  about. 

Flowers  for  the  Table. — A  very  beautiful  way  to  arrange 
flowers  is  to  use  tin  forms,  filled  with  water  or  sand,  made  in 
any  desired  shape,  such  as  crosses,  circles,  half-circles,  trian- 
gles, etc.  They  are  made  easily  by  any  tinner,  and  should  be 
about  one  inch  deep.  Tiny  forms  of  tin,  in  the  shape  of  the 
letters  of  the  alphabet,  containing  the  initial  letter  of  the  name 
of  the  guest,  may  be  placed  at  the  plate  to  which  each  is 
assigned.  The  flowers  may  be  arranged  so  as  to  conceal  the 
tin  form  if  desired. 


236 


House  Plants  and  Flowers. 


Hanging  Baskets. — A  new  style  of  hanging  basket  is  made 
of  round  maple  sticks,  about  one  inch  in  diameter,  eight 
inches  in  length  at  the  bottom,  increasing  to  fourteen  at  the 
top.  In  constructing,  begin  at  the  bottom  and  build  up,  log- 
cabin  fashion;  chink  the  openings  with  green  moss,  and  line 
the  whole  inside  with  the  same.  They  are  easily  kept  moist, 
and  the  plants  droop  and  twine  over  them  very  gracefully.  A 
good  way  to  keep  the  earth  moist  in  a  hanging  basket  without 
the  trouble  of  taking  it  down,  is  to  fill  a  bottle  with  water  and 
put  in  two  pieces  of  yarn,  leaving  one  end  outside.  Suspend 
the  bottle  just  above  the  basket,  and  allow  the  water  to  drip: 
this  will  keep  the  earth  moist  enough  for  winter,  and  save  a 
great  deal  of  time  and  labor.  Plant  morning-glory  seeds  in 
hanging  baskets  in  winter;  they  grow  rapidly  and  are  very 
pretty. 

Window  Gardening. — All  the  varieties  of  English  ivy,  the 
the  hoyacarnosa,  the  passion  flower,  the  jasmine,  the  pilogyne 
suavis  and  begonias  are  especially  suitable  for  window  culture. 
Very  pretty  effects  may  be  produced  at  the  cost  of  a  few  cents 
by  planting  verbenas,  morning-glories,  cobea  scandens  and  the 
maurandias  in  baskets  or  flower-pots,  which  may  be  concealed 
behind  statuary  or  bronzes.  The  best  fertilizer  for  them  or 
any  other  house  plants  is  that  afforded  by  the  tea-pot;  the  cold 
tea-grounds  usually  thrown  away,  if  poured  as  a  libation  to 
these  household  fairies,  will  produce  a  miracle  of  beauty  and 
perfume. 

Ivies. — A  successful  cultivator  of  ivies  feeds  them  with  iron 
and  cod-liver  oil,  the  iron  in  form  of  rusty  nails  mixed  into  the 
earth.  Another  produced  a  luxurious  growth  by  watering 
once  a  week  with  tobacco-water,  making  a  tea  of  refuse 
tobacco  leaves  and  stems,  or  of  coarse  tobacco.  The  water 
from  the  washing  of  fresh  beef  is  also  of  great  benefit  to  ivies. 

To  Revive  Withering  Flowers. — Take  them  from  the  vase, 
throw  out  the  cold  water,  and  replace  it  with  hot  water  in 
which  you  can  hardly  hold  your  finger,  put  in  it  the  flowers 
immediately;  or  burn  the  ends,  or  throw  a  little  salt  in  the 
water.    The  effect  is  wonderful. 


House  Plants  and  Flowers. 


237 


Warm  Water. — Plants  will  thrive  much  better  if  warm 
water  is  used  upon  them  instead  of  cold.  If  every  saucer  is 
filled  with  boiling  water  every  morning  it  will  add  to  the  lux- 
uriance of  the  plant,  and  frequently  no  other  moisture  will  be 
needed  for  several  days ;  tea  leaves  can  also  be  added  in  small 
quantities  to  the  soil  of  the  pots.  Ivies  are  always  beautified 
by  such  an  application,  and  it  is  an  excellent  thing  to  wet  a 
sponge  in  tea  and  moisten  the  leaves  with  it.  Wax  plants  are 
especially  susceptible  to  the  benefit  of  warm  water  applications. 

Repotting  Plants. — If  the  roots  become  potbound,  of  plants 
that  have  been  blossoming  all  winter  in  the  house,  it  will  be- 
come necessary  to  repot  them  in  the  spring,  and  the  best  time 
to  do  so  will  be  during  the  months  of  April  and  May.  Or,  if 
you  wish,  you  may  put  them  out  in  the  ground,  trimming  them 
up,  and  they  will  soon  sprout  again,  making  nice  plants.  The 
branches  trimmed  off  will  make  good  slips  and  fine  blooming 
fall  plants  for  next  autumn. 

To  Keep  Cut  Roses  Fresh. — Roses,  camellias,  and  all  hard- 
wooded  flowers,  such  as  are  used  for  head-dresses,  button-hole 
bouquets,  etc.,  may  be  kept  fresh,  and  their  beauty  preserved 
by  the  following  plan:  Cut  stems  off  at  right  angles,  and 
apply  hot  sealing-wax  to  the  end  of  the  stem  immediately; 
this  prevents  the  sap  flowing  downwards,  thereby  preserving 
the  flower. 

To  Preserve  Flowers  in  Water. — Mix  a  little  saltpeter  or 
carbonate  of  soda  in  water.  It  will  preserve  flowers  two  weeks. 
Be  careful  not  to  put  in  too  much,  as  it  will  burn  the  stems 
and  cause  the  flowers  to  turn. 

G-rub  Worms.— A  plant  grower  of  considerable  experience 
tells  us  that  a  strong  solution  of  copperas  in  soap  suds  water 
is  very  invigorating  to  ornamental  shrubs  and  pear  trees.  It 
will  also  destroy  the  small  grubs  that  infest  the  roots  of  pot 
plants.  Ammonia  water  of  the  strength  of  one  tea-spoon  of 
spirits  of  ammonia  to  two  quarts  of  water  is  also  a  good  reme- 
dy for  the  white  grubs  in  pot  plants,  while  it  is  invigorating 
t0  the  growth  of  the  plants. 


238 


House  Plants  and  Flowers. 


Canary  Birds. — Do  not  keep  in  a  room  that  is  being  painted 
or  has  odor  of  new  paint.  Do  not  hang  over  a  stove  or  grate 
which  contains  fire.  Do  not  set  the  cage  in  a  window  and  shut 
it  down  upon  it;  the  draft  is  injurious.  Do  not  wash  cage 
bottoms,  but  scrape  clean  with  a  knife,  and  then  put  on  some 
fresh  gravel;  the  moisture  breeds  red  mites,  and  is  injurious  to 
the  bird.  Do  not  keep  the  birds  you  intend  to  breed  in  the 
spring  together  during  the  winter.  Do  not  keep  single  birds 
in  a  room  where  others  are  breeding,  or  males  and  females  in 
mating  season  in  the  same  room  in  separate  cages,  as  it  is  like- 
ly to  cause  mating  fever.  Feed  canary  on  rape  seed,  but  no 
hemp.  For  diarrhea  put  a  rusty  piece  of  iron  in  water  dish, 
changing  water  not  oftener  than  twice  a  week,  and  bread  boiled 
in  milk  as  for  asthma;  boil  well  in  this  case,  so  that  when  cold 
it  will  cut  like  cheese;  give  freely  with  plenty  of  vegetables. 

Moulting  is  not  a  disease,  yet  during  this  season  all  birds 
are  more  or  less  sick,  and  some  suffer  severely.  They  require 
plenty  of  nourishing  food.  Worms,  insects  and  fruits  to  those 
which  eat  them ;  and  to  those  which  live  upon  dry  seeds,bread 
dipped  in  milk,  fruit  and  vegetables. 


Miscellaneous. 


239 


MISCELLANEOUS. 


A  Cheap  Paint. — Take  one  bushel  of  unslacked  lime  and 
slake  it  with  cold  water;  when  slaked,  add  to  it  twenty  pounds 
of  Spanish  whiting,  seventeen  pounds  of  salt  and  twelve  pounds 
of  sugar;  strain  this  mixture  through  a  wire  sieve,  and  it  will 
be  fit  for  use  after  reducing  with  cold  water;  this  is  intended 
for  the  outside  of  buildings,  or  where  it  is  exposed  to  the 
weather;  in  order  to  give  a  good  color,  three  coats  are  necessa- 
ry on  brick  and  two  on  wood;  it  may  be  laid  on  with  a  brush, 
similar  to  whitewash.  Each  coat  must  have  sufficient  time  to 
dry  before  the  next  is  applied. 

Bandoline  for  Hair. — One-half  tea-spoon  quince  seed,  one 
spoon  water.    Dissolve  and  perfume. 

Brandy  Peaches. — Pare  peaches  and  lay  in  a  shallow  dish. 
When  syrup  has  formed  remove  the  fruit  and  put  in  jars  hot. 
Fill  up  with  best  white  brandy  and  seal  up  carefully. 

Cement  for  Jet. — Use  shellack  to  join,  and  then  smoke  the 
joints  to  make  them  black. 

Cologne  Water. — One  quart  alcohol,  three  drachms  oil  lav- 
ender, one  drachm  oil  rosemary,  three  drachms  oil  bergamot, 
three  drachms  essence  lemon,  three  drops  oil  cinnamon. 

Corn  Bread. — Two  cups  Indian  meal,  one  cup  flour,  two 
table-spoons  brown  sugar,  two  and  one-half  cups  sour  milk, 
one  tea-spoon  salaratus,  one  tea  spoon  salt,  one  heaping  table- 
spoon lard;  beat  ten  minutes;  put  in  molds,  steam  one  and 
one-half  hours  in  a  steamer,  care  being  taken  to  keep  it  tight. 
When  taken  out  set  in  oven  twenty  minutes. — Mrs.  Teel. 


240 


Miscellaneous. 


Cologne  Water. — Oil  rosemary,  one  ounce;  oil  of  lavender, 
one  once;  oil  of  bergamot,  one  ounce;  oil  of  lemon,  one  ounce; 
oil  of  rose,  sixteen  drops;  alcohol,  one  gallon. 

Curd  or  Cottage  Cheese. — Set  a  gallon  or  more  of  clabber- 
ed milk  on  the  stove  hearth  or  in  the  oven  after  cooking  a 
meal,  leaving  the  door  open;  turn  it  around  frequently,  and 
cut  the  curd  in  squares  with  a  knife,  stirring  gently  now  and 
then  till  about  as  warm  as  the  finger  will  bear,  and  the  whey 
shows  all  around  the  curd;  pour  all  into  a  coarse  bag,  and 
hang  to  drain  in  a  cool  place  for  three  or  four  hours,  or  over 
night  if  made  in  the  evening.  When  wanted,  turn  from  the 
bag,  chop  rather  coarse  with  a  knife,  and  dress  with  salt,  pep- 
per and  sweet  cream.  Some  mash  and  rub  thoroughly  with 
cream;  others  dress  with  sugar,  cream  and  a  little  nutmeg, 
omitting  the  salt  and  pepper.  Another  way  is  to  chop  fine, 
add  salt  to  taste,  work  in  a  very  little  cream  or  butter,  and 
mold  into  round  balls. 

Dried  Scent  to  Put  Into  Sachets,  or  Little  Bags,  for 
Drawers. — Half  pound  of  lavender  flowers,  half  ounce  of 
dried  thyme,  half  ounce  dried  mint,  quarter  ounce  of  cloves, 
quarter  ounce  of  caraway  seeds,  one  ounce  of  common  salt. 
The  lavender  flowers  must  be  rubbed  from  the  stalk,  the  thyme 
and  mint  reduced  to  powder,  and  the  cloves  and  caraway  seed 
bruised  in  a  mortar.  The  whole  should  then  be  mixed  with 
the  salt,  which  must  be  well  dried  before  it  is  used.  When 
the  ingredients  have  been  thoroughly  mixed,  the  compound 
may  be  put  into  silk  or  muslin  bags  for  use. 

Golden  Honey  Recipe. — Put  six  pounds  coffee  C  sugar  and 
three  pounds  of  pure  soft  water  into  a  kettle  and  let  them  boil 
eight  minutes,  then  add  one  pound  of  pure  honey  and  one-half 
an  ounce  of  pulverized  alum.  Mix  well,  stirring  briskly  du- 
ring the  operation,  and  when  cool  it  is  ready  for  use. 

To  Clean  Jewelry.— Any  gold  jewelry  that  an  immersion 
in  water  will  not  injure,  can  be  beautifully  cleaned  by  shaking 
it  well  in  a  bottle  nearly  full  of  warm  soap-suds  to  which  a 
little  prepared  chalk  has  been  added,  and  afterwards  rinsing  it 
in  clear  cold  water  and  wiping  it  on  a  towel. 


Miscellaneous. 


241 


Lime  Water  and  Its  Uses. — Place  a  piece  of  unslaked  lime 
(size  is  immaterial,  as  the  water  will  take  up  only  a  certain 
quantity)  in  a  perfectly  clean  bottle,  and  fill  with  cold  water; 
keep  corked  in  a  cellar  or  a  cool,  dark  place;  it  is  ready  for 
use  in  a  few  minutes,  and  the  clear  lime-water  may  be  used 
whenever  it  is  needed.  When  the  water  is  poured  off,  add 
more;  this  may  be  done  three  or  four  times,  after  which  some 
new  lime  must  be  used  as  at  first.  A  tea-spoon  in  a  cup  of 
milk  is  a  remedy  for  children's  summer  complaint;  also  for 
acidity  of  the  stomach ;  when  added  to  milk  it  has  no  unpleas- 
ant taste.  When  put  into  milk  that  would  otherwise  curdle 
when  heated,  it  prevents  its  curdling,  so  that  it  can  be  used 
for  puddings  and  pies.  A  small  quantity  of  it  will  prevent  the 
"turning"  of  cream  and  milk.  It  also  sweetens  and  purifies 
bottles  which  have  contained  milk.  Some  add  a  cupful  to  a 
sponge  of  bread  to  prevent  it  from  souring. 

Milk  of  Roses. — Put  into  a  small  bottle  two  ounces  of  rose 
water,  one  tea-spoon  of  oil  of  sweet  almonds,ten  drops  of  oil  of 
tar.  Shake  the  bottle  until  the  whole  is  combined.  A  beauti- 
ful cosmetic,  to  be  applied  with  the  corner  of  a  towel,  or  a  cam- 
bric handkerchief,  after  the  morning's  ablution. 

Queen  Bess  Complexion  Wash. — Put  in  a  vial  one  drachm 
of  benzoin  gum  in  powder,  one  drachm  nutmeg  oil,  six  drops 
of  orange-blossom  tea,  or  apple  blossoms  put  in  a  half- pint  of 
rain  water  and  boiled  down  to  one  tea-spoon  and  strained,  one 
one  pint  of  sherry  wine.  Bathe  the  face  morning  and  night; 
will  remove  all  flesh-worms  and  freckles  and  give  a  beautiful 
complexion.  Or,  put  one  ounce  of  powdered  gum  of  benzoin 
in  a  pint  of  whisky ;  to  use  put  in  water  in  wash-bowl  till  it  is 
milky. 

SPICED  CURRANTS. 

6  pounds  fruit,  3  pounds  raisins, 

3  pounds  sugar,  1  pint  vinegar, 

2  table-spoons  allspice,  2  table-spoons  cinnamon, 

1  table-spoon  cloves. 

31 


242 


Miscellaneous. 


SPICED  GOOSEBERRIES. 

Leave  the  stem  and  blossom  on  ripe  gooseberries,  wash 
clean;  make  a  syrup  of  three  pints  sugar  to  one  of  vinegar, 
skim,  if  necessary,  add  berries  and  boil  down  till  thick,  adding 
more  sugar  if  needed;  when  almost  done,  spice  with  cinnamon 
and  cloves ;  boil  as  thick  as  apple  butter. 

Strawrerry  Short  Cake. — Make  a  dough  as  for  baking- 
powder  biscuit;  roll  thin,  about  an  inch  thick;  bake.  Have 
berries  previously  picked  and  well  sugared.  When  cake  is 
done,  butter,  and  put  on  berries.  Then  put  cakes  together; 
then  plenty  of  berries  on  top.  Ripe  peaches  or  raspberries 
can  be  used  the  same  way.  This  makes  a  nice  dessert,  as  it  is 
very  nice  for  tea.    Eat  with  cream  and  sugar. 

Strawberry  Biscuit. — Make  biscuit  as  for  tea.  Take  one 
cup  pulverized  sugar,  one-half  cup  butter,  one  quart  straw- 
berries. Rub  sugar  and  butter  to  a  cream;  then  jam  the  ber- 
ries and  mix  into  the  butter  and  sugar;  open  the  biscuit  and 
put  a  spoonful  between  them,  one  on  top,  and  3rou  have  a  car- 
nation biscuit. 

To  Crimp  Hair  Effectualy. — To  crimp  the  hair  take  five 
cents  worth  of  gum  arable,  and  put  into  it  just  enough  boiling- 
water  to  dissolve  it.  When  dissolved  add  enough  alcohol  to 
make  it  somewhat  thin.  Let  this  stand  all  night,  and  then 
bottle  it  to  prevent  the  alcohol  from  evaporating.  When  wish- 
ing to  "do"  the  hair  for  the  night,  damp  it  with  this  mixture, 
and  the  result  will  be,  next  clay,  stiffly  crimped  or  curled  hair, 
which  will  not  "come  out"  on  damp  or  hot  days,  as  is  usual 
with  hair  crimped  in  the  ordinary  manner. 

Whisky  Plumbs. — Fill  a  jar  with  smooth  plumbs.  Pour 
over  whisky  to  cover.  When  wanted  upon  the  table  take  out 
a  mess,  soak  over  night  in  cold  water,  stew,  sweeten  to  taste, 
and  you  will  have  a  delicious  sauce. 


Social  Entertainments. 


243 


SOCIAL  ENTERTAINMENTS. 


KETTLE-DEUMS. 

The  origin  of  kettle-drums  is,  it  must  be  confessed,  some- 
what obscure,  but  undoubtedly  the  rage  of  the  present  day 
for  all  manner  of  afternoon  entertainments  is  borrowed  from 
England.  It  is  said  that  in  the  reign  of  Charles  the  Second 
kettle-drums  were  first  made  popular  at  the  court  of  that  gay 
monarch.  The  ladies,  returning  from  the  hunt,  gathered 
together  for  a  tea-drinking  and  some  light  refreshment,  the 
entertainment  being  known  as  a  "drum,"  to  which  the  sig- 
nificant term  "  kettle  "  was  later  prefixed.  Certainly  in  the 
eighteenth  centuiy  kettle-drums  were  notable  entertainments. 
Pope's  couplet  about  the  sociable  and  gossip-provoking  cup  of 
tea.  Lad}'  Mary  TTortley's  half-masculine  scorn  for  the  tea 
fights  of  her  lad}T  friends,  Dr.  Jolinson's  famous  nine  cups  of 
tea  at  Dr.  Burney's  assembly,  when  Fanny  timidly  waited  on 
him,  all  lend  the  charm  of  old-fashioned  precedent.  And  cer- 
tainly the  beverage  must  have  a  special  virtue  of  its  own,  since 
it  appears  to  move  silent  tongues,  promote  sociability  in  every 
female  assemblage,  and  refresh  the  tired  spirits  after  a  da}T's 
"  outing  "  with  a  balm  Johannisberger  could  not  give. 

The  term  "kettle-drum"  cannot,  therefore,  be  applied  to 
anything  but  a  tea-drinking,  and  strictly  speaking,  your 
entertainment,  if  given  the  quaint  name,  should  include  only 
a  light  refreshment  of  sandwiches,  cake,  and  biscuit.  In 
many  cases,  however,  quite  an  elaborate  tea-table  is  spread  at 
one  end  of  the  drawing-room  or  in  an  ante-room,  and  here 
young  ladies  frequently  preside,  drawing  the  tea  without  ruin- 
ing it  by  boiling.    A  cozy  is  very  serviceable  on  such  occa- 


244 


Social  Entertainments. 


sions,  although  it  is  not  commonly  known  in  America,  where, 
alas!  the  dainty  flavor  of  the  tea  is  so  often  sacrificed  to 
Betty's  mania  for  parboiling  it  away  on  the  kitchen  fire.  This 
article,  indispensable  to  the  English  housekeeper,  is  a  wadded 
hood  which  covers  the  tea-drawer,  keeping  in  the  steam,  and 
drawing  the  tea  well  and  quickly.  The  water  should  be 
poured  on  the  tea  leaves  just  boiling,  the  cozy  then  applied, 
and  in  fifteen  minutes  you  have  a  delicious  cup  of  tea.  The 
first  drawing  should  be  very  strong,  and  hot  water  may  be 
added  to  the  cups.  Cozies  may  have  an  outer  side  of  embroid- 
ered silk  or  cashmere,  so  that  the  effect  is  pretty  and  orna- 
mental. 

At  kettle-drums  teas  of  various  flavors  should  be  served. 
Breakfast  tea  should  never  be  made  too  strong,  and  pure  green 
tea  never  used  on  such  occasions.  The  "Russian  tea,"  to  be 
perfect,  should  be  made  in  a  samovar;  but  as  only  half  a  dozen 
people  in  America  possess  these  curious  tea-drawers,  it  is 
obvious  that  this  must  be  dispensed  with  for  the  so-called 
Russian  tea  in  common  use,  which  is  generally  clear  tea,  well- 
drawn,  with  a  slice  of  lemon  in  it,  and  sugared  to  taste.  The 
samovar  has  a  certain  complication  of  charcoal  fumes,  and 
special  teas  are  mixed  to  produce  the  desired  flavor;  but  a 
fondness  for  tea  made  in  this  manner  is  undoubtedly  an 
acquired  taste,  and  the  article  would  hardly  pay  for  the  trouble 
of  incorporation.  At  no  afternoon  entertainment  at  present, 
unless  a  regular  full  dress  reception,  is  coffee  or  wine  fashion- 
able, chocolate  or  bouillou  (a  well  made  beef  tea)  being  the 
substitutes;  and  these,  as  well  as  tea,  should  be  served  in 
small,  dainty  cups,  the  cream  and  sugar  being  handed  each 
guest  on  a  salver.  Flowers  may  or  may  not  be  used  at  these 
afternoon  parties.  If  preferred,  a  very  pretty  way  to  arrange 
them  is  to  have  several  tiny  kettles  filled  with  beautful  blos- 
soms, and  placed  in  conspicuous  places  about  the  rooms. 

The  afternoon  kettle-drum  invitation  is  the  visiting  card, 
with  "Tea  at  four  o'clock,"  or  "Tea  from  four  to  seven," 
in  one  corner,  with  the  date  or  dates  specified.  To  these  may 
be  added  a  silver  or  gold  kettle,  which  is  significant,  and  so 


Social  Entertainments. 


245 


commonly  used  in  England  that  stationers  provide  paper  and 
cards  with  the  design. 

The  hostess,  of  course,  is  ready  to  receive  her  friends  at  the 
hour  named,  and  welcoming  each  one  with  a  cordial  greeting, 
must  have  a  general  supervision  of  her  guests,  although  it  is 
impossible  to  pay  much  individual  attention,  and  few  intro- 
ductions can  be  made.  The  tea  may  be  served  the  guests  soon 
after  entering.  Conversation  should  be  general,  without  wait- 
ing for  an  introduction.  Unfortunately,  in  many  cases  a  stiff- 
ness characterizes  these  entertainments,  which  we  will  venture 
to  assert  is  purely  American — not  that  hauteur  is  a  national 
characteristic,  but  that  on  such  purely  informal  occasions 
American  women  have  not  always  the  French  or  English 
savoir  /aire  which  makes  each  guest  feel  at  ease  with  her 
neighbor,  and  a  general  air  of  harmony  and  congeniality  pre- 
vail. The  hostess  cannot  be  entirely  responsible  for  the 
enjoyment  of  her  guests.  The  constant  coming  and  going- 
must  absorb  her  time,  but  it  is  her  duty  to  diffuse  cordiality 
and  an  air  of  genial  hospitality,  which  many  ultra  fashionables 
in  our  little  world  seem  to  feel  a  condescension !  It  is  on  these 
very  formal  days  that  a  lady  can  best  prove  her  perfect  ease 
and  good  breeding  by  never  substituting  stiffness  for  etiquette, 
and  coldness  for  aristocratic  calm. 

The  duty  of  the  invited  guest  is  very  simple.  Kettle-drum 
invitations  require  no  answer.  If  more  than  one  date  is 
named,  attendance  on  one  occasion  is  all  that  is  required.  Go 
about  half  an  hour  later  than  the  hour  named  (which,  by  the 
way,  is  an  absurd  point  of  etiquette  more  honored  in  the 
breach  than  the  observance),  and  make  your  stay  from  fifteen 
minutes  to  an  hour's  duration.  On  leaving,  always  make  your 
adieux  to  all  who  are  receiving,  and  having  done  so,  it  is  not 
etiquette  to  linger.  A  hostess  can  never  accompany  any  guest 
towards  the  door,  even  on  the  occasion  of  a  call,  unless, 
indeed,  it  be  a  purely  informal  one. 

Evening  kettle-drums  are  far  more  enjoyable  than  those 
given  in  the  day-time,  since  the  guests  can  remain  throughout 
the  evening,  introductions  may  be  made,  and  a  very  sociable 


246 


Social  Entertaiments. 


character  given  to  the  company.  The  evening  kettle-drums, 
if  given  only  once  or  twice  in  the  season,  should  be  on  a  much 
more  elaborate  scale  than  a  day-time  affair,  and  the  most  agree- 
able method  is  to  serve  the  tea  in  courses  through  the  draw- 
ing-rooms, when  the  old-fashioned  "  nests  "  of  tables  may  be 
brought  into  requisition,  and  small  groups  gather  about  them 
in  a  sociable  way.  These  evening  tea-drinkings  are,  however, 
not  governed  by  any  such  set  laws  that  an  original-minded 
hostess  cannot  innovate  without  being  peculiar.  Indeed,  we 
can  only  speak  of  rules  in  a  very  general  wa}^  for  unique  ideas 
are  nowadays  so  creditable  that  it  seems  to  be  the  aim  of  every 
hostess  to  devise  something  new,  even -when  her  invitation 
bears  the  conventional  formula.  Music  is  hardly,  advisable  at 
an  evening  tea  party,  which  is  intended  strictly  for  sociable 
conversation.  Evening  kettle-drums  may  be  made  delightful, 
and  as  entertainments  are  inexpensive  and  very  sociable. 

The  question  of  dress  is  easily  regulated  at  present.  After- 
noon affairs,  unless  dancing  is  included  in  the  invitation, 
should  always  be  attended  in  carriage  or  calling  costume,  with 
a  bonnet.  The  hostess  may  receive  in  demi-toilette.  At  ket- 
tle-drums do  not  remove  your  gloves.  Never  wear  3^our  wrap 
into  the  drawing-room  at  kettle-drums  or  the  like,  unless  it  be 
a  part  of  the  whole  costume.  Natural  flowers  are  worn  on  all 
occasions,  from  breakfast  to  theater  parties,  the  large  belt  bou- 
quets being  the  most  fashionable. 

On  these  minor  occasions  the  Frenchwoman's  rule  of  perfect 
dress  should  be  remembered:  "Bien  chaussee,  bien  gautee, 
et  un  joli  mouchoir  de  poche"  (well  shod,  well  gloved,  and  a 
pretty  pocket  handkerchief). 

BREAKFAST  PARTIES  AND  HIGH  TEAS. 

Among  the  prettiest  and  pleasantest  of  entertainments  are 
the  various  dejeuners  a  la  fourchette,  denominated  breakfasts, 
garden  parties,  matinees  and  croquet  parties,  although  their 
title  of  dejeuner  is  hardly  applicable  except  among  those  ex- 
ceedingly gay  people  who  turn  night  into  day,  and  might  natu- 
rally be  taking  a  hearty  breakfast  at  five  or  six  in  the  after- 


Social  Entertainments.  247 


noon.  There  are  certainly  no  gayetiesof  any  sort  so  well  suit- 
ed to  youth,  beauty  and  innocence  as  these;  and  a  more  charm- 
ing sight  can  hardly  be  desired  than  the  brilliant  cluster  of 
perfectly  dressed  and  well-bred  people  on  the  velvet  lawns  and 
under  the  sunshiny  sky  which  we  want  for  a  garden  party. 
An  extremely  fashionable  breakfast  begins  at  five  o'clock  in 
the  afternoon ;  but  that  is  late  for  croquet  and  garden  parties, 
the  invitation  for  which  should  mention  the  hour,  usually  three 
in  the  afternoon.  At  the  morning  concert  nothing  at  all  is 
offered  in  the  way  of  refreshment,  and  that  is  not  included 
under  the  head  of  breakfasts. 

If  the  amusement  is  to  be  dancing  or  croquet  it  should  be 
mentioned  by  the  one  word  on  the  lower  left  hand  corner  of  the 
card  of  invitation.  When  dancing  is  mentioned  it  means  the 
guests  are  to  remain  longer;  but  with  croquet  they  disperse 
soon  after  tea,  and  here  let  us  say,  by  the  way,  that  in  inviting 
a  person,  simply  to  tea  the  correct  phrase  is  "to  drink  tea," 
never  to  "take"  it. 

Of  course  there  will  be  several  sets  of  croquet  formed,  if 
croquet  is  relied  on;  but  one  will  not  invite  many  more  people 
than  can  be  accommodated  at  the  game,  although  there  will 
always  be  some  who  will  hardly  care  for  it.  Everything  will 
be  in  readiness,  and  immediately  after  the  arrival  and  recep- 
tion of  the  guests  the  games  will  begin,  and  continue  till  about 
six  o'clock. 

Morning  dress  is  to  be  worn  at  these  parties,  but  very  rich 
and  handsome  moruiug  dress — fine  muslins,  summer  silks, 
light  and  pretty  hats,  thin  wraps,  if  any,  to  be  tossed  aside 
with  the  excitement  of  the  play,  not  worn  at  all  in  the  dance; 
nice  gloves,  and  extremely  nice  boots,  for  more  attention  is 
drawn  to  the  dressing  of  the  foot  in  croquet  than  to  any  other 
portion  of  the  toilette,  as  it  has  a  prominent  part  to  play,  and 
quite  as  much  in  dancing.  But  as  that  is  out  of  taste  which 
is  out  of  place,  the  boot  must  be  no  delicate  satin  affair,  but 
one  whose  soles  are  thick  enough  to  tread  the  ground  with 
safety.    That  is,  for  the  croquet  or  other  out-door  party. 

Archery  meetings,  by  the  way,  have  never  found  any  favor 


248 


Social  Entertainments. 


with  us  in  general;  but  the  morning  concert  and  the  mere 
breakfast  party  require  the  dress  worn  for  stately  calls,  the 
gown  fine  and  cut  demi-train,  with  light  gloves,  a  plain  pocket- 
handkerchief,  thin  boots,  and  a  bonnet  or  hat — in  short,  the 
most  elegant  calling  or  carriage  costume.  At  six  o'clock  the 
guests  are  invited  to  the  table.  This  is  laid  with  great  care 
and  ornamented  with  flowers.  It  is  not  by  any  means, 
though,  a  light  and  trifling  repast  that  is  prepared ;  both  dan- 
cing and  active  out-door  exercise  are  understood  to  create  ap- 
petite, and  the  table  is  spread  in  order  to  satisfj'  it.  The  meats, 
however,  are  to  be  cold.  There  ma}^  be,  for  instance,  cold  roast 
duck  and  roast  chicken  at  either  end  of  the  table,  each  flanked 
by  dishes  of  sliced  ham  and  tongue  cut  extremely  thin,  a 
mayonnaise  of  veal,  a  lobster  salad,  and  any  other  cold  or  pot- 
ted relish  that  may  be  convenient.  The  center  of  the  table 
will  be  occupied  by  a  tall  ornament,  vase  or  epergne,  filled  with 
flowers,  and  around  it  will  be  dishes  filled  with  fruits  of  the 
season  decked  out  with  flowers,  strawberries  and  cherries,  or 
raspberries  and  peaches,  and  others ;  and  up  and  down  the  ta- 
ble, in  set  places,  will  be  very  delicate  bread  and  butter  sand- 
wiches, with  small  vases  of  flowers  here  and  there  between ;  tarts 
and  cakes,  and  jellies  also,  the  pretty  dish  called  trifle,  Char- 
lotte-Russe,  apple  love-knot,  and  any  of  the  toothsome  kick- 
shaws that  strike  the  fancy.  Tea  and  coffee,  and  chocolate 
andbouillou  will  be  passed,  all  or  either;  and  although  there 
may  be  Champagne,  if  one  chooses,  it  is  not  customary,  and  it 
is  considered  in  greatly  better  taste  to  dispense  with  it.  Al- 
though fashion  varies  in  the  matter  of  laying  and  equipping  a 
table,  yet  a  table  thus  set  out  will  always  be  sufficiently  suita- 
ble for  a  very  gay  dejeuner.  Shortly  after  enjoying  these  deli- 
cacies the  company  separates,  unless  expected  to  remain  for 
dancing.  Sometimes,  instead  of  this  sort  of  refreshment,  the 
croquet  or  dancing  continues  until  dinner  time,  when  the  com- 
pany resolves  itself  into  a  dinner  party;  but  this,  also,  is  in 
questionable  taste,  as  the  guests,  if  dressed  for  croquet  are  not 
dressed  for  dinner. 

The  entertainment  at  a  "high  tea"  is  quite  as  elaborate  as 


Social  Entertainments. 


240 


this,  if  not  more  so,  as  sometimes  the  dishes  then  are  hot. 
High  teas  take  place  oftener  in  Lent  than  any  other  time 
Sometimes  the  dishes  are  handed  around  to  the  guests  where- 
ever  they  may  be  sitting;  but  if  the  number  be  small  enough 
to  allow  it,  quite  as  correct  a  style  is  to  have  the  table  laid  and 
ornamented  for  as  many  as  are  expected  to  set  clown  at  it. 
There  will  be  tea  and  chocolate  on  the  sideboard,  which  will  be 
handed  by  the  waiters.  A  very  nice  menu  for  a  high  tea  is,for 
the  first  thing,  birds  on  toast,  with  hot  and  cold  buttered  rolls; 
the  plates,  of  as  beautiful  China  as  possible,  will  then  be 
changed  for  chicken  salad,  with  which  thinly  cut  cold  bread 
will  be  offered;  another  plate  will  replace  that  with  waffles, 
which  will  be  succeded  by  frozen  pudding,  with  which  kisses, 
cakes  and  preserves  will  be  passed ;  with  the  last  plate  will  be 
offered  the  berries  and  fresh  fruits  if  in  summer,  dried  fruits 
and  candies  done  up  in  the  last  caprice  if  in  winter,  and  finger 
glasses  will  then  be  placed  upon  the  table.  Other  guests  may 
be  invited  for  the  evening,  the  company  separating  at  about 
half-past  ten.  One  dresses  in  demi -toilette  for  high  teas;  that 
is,  the  dress  is  not  cut  low,  and  though  it  may  be  of  thin  ma- 
terial, if  desired,  it  may  not  be  of  the  fleecy  gauzes  suitable 
for  ball  dresses;  but  it  may  be  cut  square  or  somewhat  open, 
after  the  style  of  any  prevailing  mode.  ^Demi-toilette,  how- 
ever, if  it  is  not  full  dress,  is  not  on  such  occasions  al- 
lowed to  become  sombre,  as  it  is  part  of  a  guest's  duty  to 
make  her  hostess's  drawing-room  attractive.  It  is  much  to  be 
regretted  that  our  ladies  have  not  more  courage  in  demi-toilette, 
and  in  their  want  of  confidence  in  their  taste  and  colors  do  so 
frequently  take  refuge  in  their  safe  black. 

LUNCHEON  PASTIES.  — M rs.  I.  Webster,  Washington. 

Luncheon  parties  have  of  late  years  become  quite  popular. 
They  are  not  so  solemn  as  dinner  parties,  and  they  require 
very  much  less  care,  while  their  errors  are  not  irretrievable,  as 
in  the  latter,  and  they  afford  an  opportunity  of  meeting  people 
who  may  be  engaged  elsewhere  at  dinner  or  for  the  evening. 

3a 


250 


Social  Entertainments. 


Gentlemen  enjoy  these  parties  quite  as  much  as  ladies.  Every- 
thing is  devoid  of  restraint,  and  when  luncheon  is  announced 
the  dishes  are  found  to  be  those  which  best  please  the  palate, 
such  as  cold  salmon  at  one  end  of  the  table,  lamb  at  the  other, 
cold  chicken,  chicken  salad,  ham,  game  pie,  lobster  salad, 
flowers  and  fruit,  Charlotte  russe,  ice  cream,  custards,  blanc 
mange,  jellies,  candies,  bread  and  butter  cut  very  thin  and 
spread,  tea  and  coffee,  and  a  large  china  bowl  of  claret  punch 
or  lemonade.  Have  plenty  of  pickles  or  olives,  or  any  nice 
fancy  pickles,  oysters  in  all  styles,  peas  and  hot  potato  chips, 
or  birds.    Have  plenty  of  flowers. 

The  informality  of  luncheon  parties  makes  them  remarkably 
pleasant,  but  they  are  expected  to  break  up  at  leaving  the 
table. 

LUNCHEON  PARTIES. — Mrs.  F.  Metcalf. 

Lunches,  although  not  exclusively  a  ladies'  party,  have 
become  a  fashionable  way  for  ladies  to  entertain  each  other. 
When  more  than  twenty  guests  are  expected  the  lunch  is  usu- 
ally served  from  a  large  table,  the  guests  being  seated  at  small 
tables — in  such  cases  salads  and  croquettes  of  various  kinds, 
coffee,  chocolate,  ices,  cakes  and  fruits  forming  the  repast.  If 
wines  are  desired,  sheny  and  claret  or  champagne  are  most 
appropriate.  For  smaller  luncheons,  soups,  game,  sweetbreads 
with  peas,  chops  with  tomato  sauce,  pressed  chicken,  Saratoga 
potatoes,  stuffed  eggs,  creams,  jellies,  ices,  fruits,  nuts,  etc.,  are 
all  appropriate.  The  table  should  be  as  handsomely  decorated 
as  possible  with  fruit,  flowers,  etc.  In  season  a  block  of  ice, 
hollowed  out  to  hold  raw  oysters,  makes  a  stjdish  addition  to 
the  table.  A  card  containing  the  guest's  name  should  be 
put  upon  the  plate  to  avoid  trouble  when  the}'  are  taking  their 
seats.  Lunch  is  usually  served  at  one  o'clock — guests 
expected  fifteen  or  twenty  minutes  before.  In  the  city,  or 
where  the  invitation  is  given  formally,  bonnet  and  gloves  are 
expected.  For  smaller  lunches  the  guests  are  seated  at  the 
table,  the  lunch  being  more  elaborate,  and  served  in  courses 
like  a  dinner. 


Social  Entertainments. 


251 


OTHER  EVENING  AFFAIRS 

vary  in  character  from  the  ball  to  the  small  reception,  al- 
though there  are  general  rules,which  gas-light  seems  to  govern. 
A  ball  invitation  may  say  eight  o'clock,  but  nine  is  early 
enough  to  appear,  and  half-past  ten  is  not  too  late.  Where- 
ever  there  is  to  be  dancing  full  dress  is  worn,  but  no  head  cov- 
ering, and  such  invitations  should  be  answered  whether  the 
"R.  S.  V.  P."  is  upon  them  or  they  come  informally  written.  A 
young  lad}^  should  never  attend  dancing  company  unchape- 
roned.  Two  sisters  may  go  together,  with  proper  escorts,  if  at 
the  house  of  a  very  intimate  friend,  but  the  circumstances 
which  render  this  permissible  are  very  peculiar.  A  young  lady 
should  never  accept  the  escort  home  of  any  but  an  intimate 
friend,  and  if  a  young  lady  is  invited  with  a  promise  of  chape- 
ronage  from  the  hostess,  the  latter  should  never  offer  her  any 
escort  but  one  of  her  own  family  or  household. 


252 


Bills  of  Fare. 


BILLS  OF  FARE. 


These  bills  of  fare  are  given  as  suggestions  to  the  house- 
keeper, rather  than  arbitrary  rules,  in  providing  what  is  season- 
able for  daily  fare  as  well  as  extra  occasions.  The  first  four 
days  of  the  week  are  mentioned  for  convenience;  for  the  other 
three  the  bills  of  fare  given  may  be  repeated,  or  divided,  com- 
bined and  varied,  to  suit  the  taste. 

FOR  SPRING. 

SUNDAY. 

Breakfast. — Fried  brook  trout,  broiled  ham,  eggs  on  toast,  baked 
beans  and  Boston  brown  bread,  rice  waffles,  tea,  coffee,  chocolate. 
Dinner. — Chicken  soup,  boiled  mutton  with  caper  sauce,  mashed 
potatoes,  hominy,  canned  tomatoes,  asparagus,  lettuce,  radishes, 
pickles,  orange  short  cake,  Fannie 's  pudding,  figs,  almonds,  tea, 
coffee.  Lunch. — Cold  chicken,  cold  mutton,  rusk,  cheese,  crackers, 
canned  peaches,  preserved  cherries,  Queen  Vic  cake,  iced  tea. 

MONDAY. 

Breakfast. — Boiled  ham,  raw  potatoes  fried,  boiled  eggs,  buck- 
wheat cakes  with  maple  syrup,  pickles,  coffee.  Dinner. — Beef  soup, 
boiled  pork  with  potatoes  and  cabbage,  salsify,  apple  sauce,  catsup, 
pickles,  bread,  doughnuts,  bread  pudding,  apples.  Supper. — Dried 
beef,  waffles,  bread  and  butter,  canned  pears,  ginger-snaps,  cheese, 
cake,  tea. 

TUESDAY. 

Breakfast. — Cold  boiled  ham,  fried  squirrels,  ham  omelet,  pota- 
1  toes  with  cream,  asparagus  wTith  toast,  muffins,  Graham  bread,  corn 
bread,  oranges,  coffee,  tea,  chocolate.  Dinner. — Macaroni  soup, 
baked  fish  with  dressing  and  sauce,  boiled  ham,  roast  veal,  asparagus, 
potatoes,  spinach,  lettuce,  radishes,  lemon  pie,  cocoanut  pie,  queen  of 
puddings,  coffee.  Supper. — Pickled  tongue,  pressed  beef,  waffles 
with  maple  syrup,  spiced  peaches,  chow-chow,  canned  fruit,  pre- 
serves, cake,  coffee,  tea. 


253 


WEDNESDAY. 

Breakfast. — Fried  ham,  potatoes  boiled  in  jackets,  radishes,  scram- 
bled eggs,  tried  mush,  Graham  bread,  coft'ee,  tea,  chocolate.  Dinner. 
— Veal  soup,  roast  lamb  with  mint  sauce  or  currant  jelly,  potatoes, 
asparagus,  spinach,  lettuce,  onions,  Boston  brown  bread,  pickles, 
horse-radish,  pie-plant  pie,  roly-poly  pudding,  apples.  Supper. — Cold 
veal,  catsup,  piccalilli,  canned  blackberries,  warm  biscuit  with  maple 
syrup,  sugar  cakes  and  tea. 

FOR  SUMMER. 

SUNDAY. 

Breakfast. — Nutmeg  melons,  fried  fish,  boiled  plover,  Saratoga 
potatoes,  sliced  tomatoes,  Minnesota  rolls,  bread,  coft'ee  and  chocolate. 
Dinner. — Green  corn  soup,  baked  chicken,  cold  veal  loaf,  mashed  po- 
tatoes, summer  squash,  green  corn  pudding,  baked  tomatoes,  corn 
starch  pudding,  blackberry  pies,  peaches,  melons,  ice  cream,  centen- 
nial drops,  white  cake,  tea  and  coffee.  Lunch. — Cold  chicken  and 
veal,  bread,  cheese,  lemon  jelly,  blackberries,  Minnehaha  cake,  lem- 
onade. 

MONDAY. 

Bbeakfast. — Fruit,  fried  fish,  frizzled  beef,  milk  toast,  Graham 
gems,  boiled  eggs,  tea  and  coffee.  Dinner. — Mutton  soup,  roast  mut- 
ton, currant  jelly,  potatoes  tried  whole,  asparagus  with  toast,  lettuce, 
onions,  radishes,  rolls,  Graham  bread,  pie-plant  pie,  sponge-cake  and 
lemonade.  Supper. — Cold  mutton  with  gooseberry  catsup,  sweet 
pickles,  biscuit,  radishes,  ginger-snaps,  sponge-cake,  ice  cream,  straw- 
berries, tea. 

TUESDAY. 

Breakfast. — Oat  meal  mush,  veal  cutlets,  fried  liver,  fricasseed 
potatoes,  new  onions,  Memionite  toast,  hot  pocket  books,  asparagus, 
radishes,  coffee  and  chocolate.  Dinner. — Gumbo  soup,  roast  lamb 
mint  sauce,  fried  chicken,  peas,  string  beans,  potatoes,  cucumbers, 
lettuce,  radishes,  ripe  currant  pie,  Bohemian  cream,  strawberries, 
lady's  lingers,  rolled  jelly  cake,  coffee.  Supper. — Cold  lamb,  cucum- 
ber salad,  bread,  strawberry  short  cake  with  sweetened  cream,  goose- 
berry fool,  tea. 

WEDNESDAY. 

Breakfast. — Blackberry  mush,  beefsteak,  snipe  on  toast,  sliced 
tomatoes,  stewed  corn,  apple  sauce,  warm  rolls,  coffee,  tea  or  chocolate. 
Dinner. — Okra  soup,  roast  lamb  with  caper  sauce,  chicken  pie,  escal- 
loped  tomatoes,  boiled  okra,  boiled  com  on  the  cob,  summer  squash, 
potatoes  in  jackets,  bread,  apple  tarts,  peach  cobbler,  melons,  coffee 
and  tea.  Supper. — Cold  lamb,  Chilli  sauce,  lobster  salad,  warm 
French  rolls,  peach  short  cake,  delicate  cake,  iced  milk  and  iced  tea. 


254 


Bills  of  Fare. 


FOR  FALL. 

SUNDAY. 

Breakfast. — Quail  on  toast,  fricatelli,  fried  oysters,  Saratoga  pota- 
toes, Indian  griddle  cakes  with  syrup,  Boston  brown  bread,  coffee  and 
Vienna  chocolate.  Dinner. — Swiss  soup,  roast  spare-rib,  escalloped 
oysters,  mashed  potatoes,  turnips,  baked  sweet  potatoes,  canned  corn, 
cream  slaw,  celery,  pickles,  biscuit,  rye  bread,  snow  pudding,  fruit 
cake,  raisins  and  nuts,  coffee  and  tea.  Lunch. — Canned  salmon, 
pickled  oysters,  light  biscuit,  cold  Saratoga  potatoes,  chow-chow,  can- 
ned plums,  cake,  tea  and  cocoa. 

MONDAY. 

Breakfast. — Oatmeal  mush,  hash  and  broiled  liver,  fried  salt  pork, 
corn  oysters,  baked  potatoes,  Graham  bread,  stewed  peaches,  nutmeg 
melons,  coffee  and  chocolate.  Dinner. — Potato  soup,  baked  fish,  egg 
sauce,  mutton  pie  with  tomatoes,  broiled  pheasants  on  toast  with  cur- 
rant jelly,  potato  souffle,  stewed  corn,  egg  plant,  stuffed  cabbage, 
boiled  okra,  Boston  brown  bread,  cucumber  and  beet  pickles,  coffee 
jelly  with  whipped  cream,  marble  cake,  peach  pyramid,  melons  and 
grapes,  coffee  and  chocolate.  Supper. — Sardines,  pickled  salmon,  cold 
slaw,  warm  biscuit  and  honey,  bread  and  cheese,  potato  salad,  frozen 
peaches,  melons,  huckleberries,  tea. 

TUESDAY. 

Breakfast. — Cracked  wheat,  broiled  prairie  chicken,  codfish  balls, 
pork  fritters,  fricasseed  potatoes,  brown  bread,  rice  waffles  with  syrup, 
chocolate  and  coffee.  Dinner. — Raw  oysters,  vegetable  soup  with 
poached  eggs,  roast  duck,  chicken  pie  with  oysters,  mashed  potatoes 
browned,  turnips,  cauliflower,  macaroni,  lima  beans,  Estelle  pudding 
with  cream  sauce,  pine-apple  ice  cream  and  cake,  melons  and  grapes, 
coffee  and  chocolate.  Supper. — Cold  tongue,  tomato  catsup,  fricas- 
seed frogs,  Saratoga  potatoes,  chicken  salad  (made  of  cabbage),  cream 
slaw,  baked  sweet  apples,  dry  toast,  fruit  cake,  peach  short  cake  and 
cream,  tea. 

WEDNESDAY. 

Breakfast. — Graham  mush,  fried  trout,  pork  steak,  beef  cro- 
quettes, boiled  Irish  potatoes,  baked  sweet  potatoes,  corn  rolls,  bread, 
coffee  and  cocoa.  Dinner. — Oyster  soup,  boiled  white  fish,  Holland 
sauce,  boiled  turkey,  oyster  sauce,  potatoes,  turnips  and  egg-plant, 
macaroni  with  cheese,  pickles,  rye  and  Indian  bread,  biscuit,  crackers, 
cocoanut  pudding,  apples  and  nuts,  coffee  and  chocolate.  Supper. — 
Raw  oysters,  escaloped  turkey,  currant  jelly,  baked  pears,  pop-overs, 
bread,  nutmeg  melons,  cake.  tea. 


Bills  of  Fare. 


255 


FOR  WINTER. 

SUNDAY. 

Breakfast. — Baked  beans  with  pork,  Boston  brown  bread,  fried 
clams,  fried  potatoes,  apple  fritters  with  syrup,  bread,  coffee  and 
cocoa.  Dinner. — Oyster  soup,  deviled  crabs,  roast  turkey  and  cran- 
berry sauce,  potatoes,  carrots,  turnips,  cabbage,  boiled  rice,  plum  cob- 
bler, kiss  pudding,  Scotch  fruit  cake,  coffee  and  chocolate.  Lunch. — 
Raw  oysters,  sliced  cold  turkey,  pickled  chicken,  light  biscuit,  rusk, 
crackers,  cookies,  cheese,  almond  tarts,  peach  preserves,  cake. 

MONDAY. 

Breakfast. — Oat  meal  mush,  veal  cutlets  breaded,  fricassed  tripe, 
fried  raw  potatoes,  fried  onions,  buckwheat  cakes  with  syrup,  bread 
tea,  and  coffee.  Dinner. — Raw  oysters,  beef  soup,  boiled  fresh  cod, 
egg  sauce,  roast  chicken,  mashed  potatoes,  stewed  sweet  potatoes, 
Italian  macaroni,  turnips,  squash  or  pumpkin  pie,  eggless  plum  pud- 
ding, plum  preserves,  oranges,  raisins,  figs,  coffee.  Supper. — Oyster 
stew,  cold  chicken,  blackberry  jelly,  watermellon  preserves,  bread, 
crackers,  apple  sauce,  Fannie' s  pudding,  almond  cake,  tea. 

TUESDAY. 

Breakfast. — Pork  tenderloin  fried,  hash,  fried  apples,  potatoes  hi 
Kentucky  style,  buckwheat  cakes  and  syrup,  bread,  sliced  oranges, 
coffee  and  chocolate.  Dinner. — Tomato  soup,  baked  beef  with  York- 
shire pudding,  oyster  pie,  mashed  potatoes,  hominy,  dried  corn  and 
lima  beans,  cream  slaw,  celery,  bottled  cucumbers,  half-batch  plum- 
pudding,  apple  pie,  apples,  figs  and  nuts,  coffee  and  tea.  Supper. — 
Cold  beef  sliced,  pickled  oysters,  chicken  salad,  raspberry  jam,  cheese, 
dry  toast,  canned  peaches,  cocoa-nut  cake,  preserve  puffs,  tea. 

WEDNESDAY. 

Breakfast. — Beefsteak,  turkey  hash,  pig's  feet  souse,  boiled  pota- 
toes in  jackets,  Graham  gems,  buckwheat  cakes  and  syrup,  coffee  and 
chocolate.  Dinner. — Bean  soup,  boiled  salmon,  stuffed  baked  rabbit, 
escaloped  oysters,  mashed  potatoes,  canned  corn  and  tomatoes,  canned 
peas,  baked  winter  squash,  cold  slaw,  variety  pickles,  sweet  pickled 
peaches  and  pears,  bread,  bread  with  mush,  rice  apples,  lemon  butter 
toast,  apples  and  oranges,  coffee  and  tea.  Supper. — Steamed  oysters, 
cold  tongue,  warm  biscuit  and  syrup,  apple  jelly,  ginger  snaps.  Buck- 
eye cake,  orange  float,  tea  and  coffee. 


256 


Bills  of  Fare. 


ECONOMICAL  BREAKFASTS. 

First. — Ham  and  eggs.  hash,  baked  potatoes,  hominy.  Graham 
gems,  coffee. 

Second. — Breakfast  stew  or  fish,  fried  Graham  mush,  tomatoes, 
potatoes,  apple  sauce,  corn  bread  or  toast,  coffee. 

ECONOMICAL  DINNERS. 

First. — Spare  ribs,  roast  potatoes,  cabbage,  rice  pu  elding,  fruit. 

Second. — Codfish,  egg  sauce.  Lancashire  pie.  parsnips,  horse-radish . 
pickles,  bread,  custard  pie. 

Third. — Boiled  pork,  beans,  potatoes,  greens,  green  currant  pie. 

Fourth. — Fish,  potato  cakes,  baked  tomatoes,  bread  pudding,  ap- 
ple sauce. 

Fifth. — Boiled  beef,  lima  beans,  boiled  potatoes,  scpiash,  sliced  to- 
matoes, apple  tapioca  pudding. 

Sixth. — Meatless  bean  soup,  roast  beef  and  potatoes,  macaroni  with 
cheese,  apple  butter,  custard  pie. 

Seventh. — Meatless  tomato  soup,  broiled  chicken,  fricasseed  pota- 
toes, turnips,  tomato  toast,  fresh  fruit. 

lunches. 

First, — Escaloped  oysters,  chicken  salad,  ham  sandwiches,  deviled 
crabs,  mixed  pickles,  cheep,  coffee  jelly  with  whipped  cream,  basket 
of  mixed  cakes,  ice  cream,  fruits,  nuts,  tea,  chocolate  with  whipped 
cream. 

Second. — Chicken  croquettes,  cold  slaw  garnished  with  fried  oys- 
ters, sardines  with  sliced  lemons,  lobster  salad,  cold  Saratoga  potatoes, 
plums  pickled  like  olives,  pickles,  jelly,  orange  or  lemon  ice.  cake, 
coffee,  chocolate  with  whipped  cream. 

THANKSGIVING  DINNERS.  . 

Oyster  soup,  boiled  fresh  cod  with  egg  sauce,  roast  turkey,  cran- 
berry sauce,  roast  goose,  bread  sauce  or  currant  jelly,  stuffed  ham. 
apple  sauce  or  jelly,  pork  and  beans,  mashed  potatoes  and  turnips, 
delicate  cabbage,  canned  tomatoes  and  corn,  baked  sweet  potatoes, 
boiled  onions,  salsify,  macaroni  and  cheese,  brown  bread  and  superior 
biscuit,  lobster  salad,  pressed  beef,  cold  corned  beef,  tongue,  celery, 
cream  slaw,  watermelon,  peach,  pear,  or  apple  sweet  pickles,  mangoes, 
cucumbers,  chow-chow  and  tomato  catsup,  stewed  peaches  or  prunes, 
doughnuts  and  ginger  cakes,  mince,  pumpkin  and  peach  pies,  plum  and 
boiled  Indian  puddings,  apple,  cocoa-nut  or  almond  tarts,  vanilla  ice 
cream,  old-fashioned  loaf  cake,  pound  cake,  black  cake,  white  perfec- 
tion cake,  ribbon  cake,  almond  layer  cake,  citron,  peach,  plum  or  cher- 
ry preserves,  apples,  oranges,  figs,  grapes,  raisins  and  nuts,  tea  and 
coffee. 


Bills  of  Fare. 


257 


Christmas  Dinners. — Clam  soup,  baked  fish,  Holland  sauce,  roast 
turkey  with  oyster  dressing  and  celery  or  oyster  sauce,  roast  duck  with 
onion  sauce,  broiled  quail,  chicken  pie,  plum  and  crab-apple  jelly, 
baked  potatoes  in  jackets,  sweet  potatoes, baked  squash,  turnips,  south- 
ern cabbage,  stewed  carrots,  canned  corn,  canned  peas,  tomatoes, Gra- 
ham bread,  rolls,  salmon  salad  or  herring  salad,  Chili  sauce,  gooseberry 
catsup,  mangoes,  pickled  cabbage  bottled,  French  or  Spanish  pickles, 
spiced  nutmeg  melon  and  sweet  pickled  grapes,  and  beets,  Christmas 
plum  pudding  with  sauce,  charlotte-russe,  cocoa-nut,  mince  and  peach 
pies,  citron,  pound,  French  loaf,  White  Mountain  and  Neapolitan  cakes, 
lady's  ringers,  pepper-nuts,  centennial  drops,  almond  or  hickory  nut 
macaroons,  cocoa-nut  caramels,  chocolate  drops,  orange  or  pine-apple 
ice  cream,  coffee,  tea  and  Vienna  chocolate. 

New  Year's  Dinners. — Eaw  oysters,  mock  turtle  soup,  boiled  tur- 
key with  oyster  sauce,  roast  haunch  of  venison,  current  jelly,  deviled 
crabs,  potato  souffle,  baked  turnips,  stuffed  cabbage,  beets,  Lima 
beans,  dried  corn  and  canned  peas,  biscuit,  French  rolls,  rye  and  In- 
dian bread,  chicken  salad,  cold  sliced  ham,  celery, cold  slaw  garnished 
with  fried  oysters,  pickled  walnuts,  variety  pickles,  sweet  pickled  cu- 
cumbers, peaches  and  plums,  spiced  currants  and  gooseberries, canned 
pears  or  strawberries,  English  plum  pudding,  chess  pie,  potato  pie, 
mince  pie,  orange  souffle,  pyramid  pound  cake,  black  cake,Phil  Sheri- 
dan cake.  Bohemian  cream,  oranges,  raisins,  figs,  nuts,  tea,  coffee, 
chocolate. 

New  Year's  Table. — When  receiving  calls  on  New  Year's  day,  the 
table  should  be  handsomely  arranged  and  decorated,  and  provided 
with  rather  substantial  dishes,  such  as  would  suit  the  tastes  of  gentle- 
men. Too  great  profusion,  especially  of  cakes,  confectionery  and  ices 
is  out  of  taste.  Selections  may  be  made  from  the  following:  Escol- 
oped  oysters,  cold  tongue,  turkey,  chicken  and  ham,  pressed  meats, 
boned  turkey,  jellied  chicken,  sandwiches  or  wedding  sandwich  rolls, 
pickled  oysters,  chicken  or  lobster  salads,  cold  slaw  garnished  with 
fried  oysters,  bottled  pickles,  French  or  Spanish  pickles,  jellies,  char- 
lotte-russe, ice  creams,  ices,  two  large  handsome  cakes  for  decoration 
of  table,  and  one  or  two  baskets  of  mixed  cake, fruit,  layer,  and  sponge 
cake  predominating,  fruits,  nuts,  coffee,  chocolate  with  whipped  cream, 
lemonade. 

Sunday  Dinner. — Giblet  soup;  baked  trout,  broiled  white  fish, 
Maitre  d'  Hotel  sauce;  oyster  patties,  raw  oysters,  oysters  in  cream; 
Leg  of  Southdown  mutton,  caper  sauce,  chicken,  egg  sauce,  buffalo 
tongue,  ham;  Roast  lamb,  mint  sauce,  roast  chicken,  brown  sauce, 

33 


258 


Bills  of  Fare. 


roast  shoat,  with  sweet  potatoes;  roast  young  turkey  with  cranberry 
sauce;  roast  loin  pork,  apple  sauce;  roast  ribs  of  beef  veal:  red  head 
ducks,  with  jelly;  black  bear,  with  game  sauce,  saddle  of  venison; 
boneless  sardines,  pressed  corn  beef,  boned  turkey  with  jelly,  chicken 
salad,  lobster;  cutlets  aux  Petite  Pois,  salmis  of  durk  with  port  wine, 
le  filet  d'  bceuf,  sauce  piquante,  supreme  of  fowls  a  la  financiere; 
Spinach,  cauliflower,  boiled  rice,  stewed  tomatoes,  boiled  and  mashed 
potatoes,  baked  sweet  potatoes,  fried  parsnips,  Lima  beans:  English 
plum  pudding,  brandy  sauce,  lemon  pie,  mince  pie,  assorted  cake: 
nectar  ice  cream, charlotte  russe,rum  jelly,  sherry  wine  sherbert:  nuts, 
fruits;  tea,  coffee. 

Sunday  Dinner. — Mock  turtle  soup,  Spanislfrbroth;  boiled  salmon, 
shrimp  sauce;  Boiled  mutton  with  caper  sauce,  corned  beef,  buffalo 
tongue,  ham  with  Champagne  sauce,  fowl  with  salt  pork;  sirloin  of 
beef,  rib  of  beef,  spring  lamb,  Southdown  mutton,  loin  of  veal,  chicken, 
with  St.  Julian  sauce,  turkey  with  cranberry  sauce;  maccaroni  and 
cheese  au  gratin,  peach  charlotte  a  la  Franeaise,  braized  carbonade  of 
fowl,  fillet  of  veal  with  dressing;  Jenny  Lind  pancakes  with  wine 
sauce,  saute  of  sweet  bread  with  green  peas,  supreme  of  fowl  a  la 
Bermuda,  beef  a  la  mode,  Brazilian  style:  cold  roast  beef,  cold  ham, 
cold  tongue,  lobster  salad  Poland  style,  potato  salad  German  style; 
mashed  potatoes,  boiled  potatoes,  lima  beans,  tomatoes,  sweet  corn, 
green  peas;  chow-chow,  tomato  catsup,  cabbage  slaw,Halford  Leices- 
ter sauce,  pickles,  horse  radish;  apple  pie,  lemon  pie,  rhubarb  pie,  En- 
glish plum  pudding,  brandy  sauce,  charlotte  russe.  Bavarian  cream; 
silver  cake,  marble  cake,  cocoanut  cake,  spice  cake,  jelly  roll,  sponge 
kisses,  chocolate  cake,  vanilla  ice  cream;  oranges,  almonds,  filberts, 
raisins;  tea,  coffee,  milk. 

Spring  Picnics. — Cold  roast  chicken,  ham  broiled  on  coals,  fish 
fried  or  broiled,  sardines,  tongue,  hard-boiled  eggs,  eggs  to  be  fried  or 
scrambled,  Boston  corn  bread,  buttered  rolls,  ham  sandwiches  prepar- 
ed with  grated  ham,  orange  marmalade,  canned  peaches,  watermelon 
and  beet  sweet  pickles,  euchered  plums,  variety  or  bottled  pickles, 
chow-chow,  quince  or  plum  jelly, raspberry  or  other  jams,  Scotch  fruit, 
rolled  jelly,  chocolate,  Minnehaha  old-fashioned  loaf. and  marble  cake; 
coffee,  chocolate  tea,  cream  and  sugar,  salt  and  pepper,  oranges. 

Summer  Picnics. — Cold  baked  or  broiled  chicked,  cold  boiled  ham. 
pickled  salmon,  cold  veal  loaf,  Parker  House  rolls,  light  bread,  box  of 
butter,  green  corn  boiled  or  roasted,  new  potatoes,  sliced  tomatoes, 
sliced  cucumbers,  French  and  Spanish  pickles,  peach  and  pear  sweet 


Bills  of  Fare. 


259 


pickles,  lemon  or  orange  jelly,  strawberries,  raspberries  or  blackber- 
ries, lemonade,  soda  beer  or  raspberry  vinegar,  coffee  and  tea,  ice  cream, 
lemon  or  strawberry  ice,  sponge,  white  Buckeye  or  lemon  cake, water- 
melon, musk-melon,  nutmeg  melon. 

Fall  Picnics. — Broiled  prairie  chicken,  fish  chowder,  clam  chowder, 
clams  roasted  or  fried,  beef  omelet,  cold  veal  roast,  sardines,  cold 
roast  chicken,  pot  of  pork  and  beans,  rusk,  Minnesota  rolls,  Boston 
brown  bread,  potatoes  Irish  or  sweet  roasted  in  ashes,  egg  sandwiches 
(hard  boiled  eggs,  sliced,  sprinkled  with  pepper  and  salt  and  put  be- 
tween buttered  bread),  mangoes,  piccalilli,  Chili  sauce, quince  marma- 
lade, baked  apples,  musk  and  nutmeg  melon,  crab  apple  jelly,  grape 
jelly,  black,  orange,  velvet,  sponge  and  three-ply  cake,  combination 
pie. 

Refreshments. — For  small  evening  parties,  sociables,  receptions, 
etc.,  where  the  refreshments  are  handed  round,  and  are  of  a  simple 
character,  everything  should  be  excellent  in  the  highest  degree,  deli- 
cately prepared  and  attractively  served.  Sandwiches  and  coffee,  choco- 
late or  tea,  a  variety  of  nice  cake,  jellies,  ice  cream  or  ices,  and  fruits 
are  appropriate.  For  a  more  pretentious  occasion,  a  simple  table  pret- 
tily decorated  with  flowers,  and  set  with  fruit,  lobster  salad,  chicken 
croquettes,  pickled  oysters  and  one  or  two  kinds  of  ice  cream  and  cake, 
and  coffee  and  tea  is  quite  enough. 

Refreshments  for  Twenty. — For  a  company  of  twenty  allow  one 
gallon  oysters,  four  chickens  and  eight  bunches  of  celery  for  chicken 
salad,  fifty  sandwiches,  one  gallon  of  ice  cream,  two  molds  charlotte- 
russe,  two  quarts  of  lemon  jelly,  one  light  and  one  dark  fruit  cake, 
two  layer  cakes,  and  one  white  or  sponge  cake;  for  coffee  use  one  and 
a  half  pints  ground  coffee  and  one  gallon  water;  fruit  cake  espe- 
cially, and,  indeed,  all  rich  cake,  should  be  cut  in  thin  slices'  with  a 
keen-edged  knife;  a  small  piece  of  each  variety  is  always  preferred  to 
to  a  plate  overloaded  with  one  or  two  kinds. 

Refreshments  for  a  Hundred. — For  a  larger  company  of  a  hun- 
dred the  refreshments  may  be  more  elaborate:  Two  gallons  of  pickled 
oysters,  two  large  dishes  of  lobster  salad,  two  small  hams  boiled  and 
sliced  cold,  five  cold  tongues  sliced  thin,  twelve  chickens  jellied  or 
pressed,  each  dish  garnished  with  sprigs  of  parsley,  slices  of  lemon 
and  red  beets,  or  curled  leaves  of  celery,  or  the  tender  center  leaves  of 
lettuce;  two  gallons  of  bottled  pickles  or  a  gallon  and  a  half  of  home- 
made, twelve  dozen  biscuit  sandwiches,  five  quarts  jelly,  four  gallons 
ice  cream,  fifteen  large  cakes,  to  be  made  from  recipes  for  rich  fruit, 


260 


delicate,  layer  and  sponge  cakes;  twelve  dozen  each  of  almond  maca- 
roons and  variety  puffs;  four  large  dishes  of  mixed  fruits:  five  pounds 
roasted  coffee  and  five  gallons  water. 

Refreshments  for  One  Hundred  and  Seventy  Five. — Six  gal- 
lons oysters,  three  small  hams,  five  large  turkeys,  ten  tongues,  six 
chickens  and  twelve  bunches  celery  for  salad,  three  gallons  pickles, 
seventeen  dozen  buns,  twelve  loaves  bread  made  in  wedding  sand- 
wich rolls  or  in  plain  sandwiches, twenty-two  large  cakes, fifteen  dozen 
large  oranges  sliced,  seventeen  dozen  meringues,  fifteen  dozen  pears, 
thirty  pounds  grapes,  seven  gallons  ice  cream  and  four  gallons  lemon 
ice,  coffee  made  of  twelve  pints  ground  coffee  and  eight  gallons  water, 
serve  coffee  at  the  beginning,  and  lemonade  at  the  close. 


INDEX 


SOUPS. 


Page. 


Bean   10 

Beef  . .  10 

Chicken   10 

Egg   10 

Grandmother's  Bean   11 

Gumbo   11 

Mock  Turtle   11 

Mock  Turtle  or  Calf's  Head .  12 

Baked   15 

Boiled,  with  Vegetables ....  16 

Brook  Trout   16 

Fried   16 

Salmon  Trout  or  Pickerel.  . .  17 

Salt  Mackerel,  boiled   IT 


Oysters,  broiled.  .  .  . 
Oysters,  Escalloped 

Oysters,  fried  

Oyster  Omelet  

Oysters,  raw  


Duck,  boiled   35 

Duck,  roasted   35 

Frogs   35 

Hare,  Jugged   36 

Partridge  Pie   36 

Pheasant  or  Prairie  Chicken, 

broiled   36 

Pigeons,  Jugged   37 

Pigeon  Pie   37 


Page. 

Okra   12 

Onion   12 

Ox  Tail   13 

Oyster   13 

Pea   13 

Pot  au  Feu   13 

Turkey   14 

Vegetable   14 


Shad,  baked   17 

Shad,  broiled   17 

White  Fish,  boiled   18 

White  Fish,  broiled   18 

Boston  Fish  Chowder  18 

Fish  Chowder   19 


:s,  roasted  21 

-  Soup.   22 

•  Soup,  plain   22 

l  Stew   22 

;s-on  Toast   23 


Pigeons,  Roasted   37 

Prairie  Chickens   37 

Quail,  broiled   37 

Quail  on  Toast   38 

Rabbit,  roasted   38 

SquirrerPie   38 

Venison  Hams   38 

Venison  Round   38 

Venison*Steak   38 


FISH. 


SHELL-FISH. 

...  20  Oystei 

...20  Oystei 

...20  Oystei 

...  21  Oystei 

...  21  Oystei 

GAME. 


262 


Index. 


MEATS. 


Page. 


Beef  Boillu   25 

Beef,  frizzled   25 

Beefsteak,  broiled   25 

Beefsteak,  fried   26 

Beef  Roast   26 

Beefsteak,  stuffed   26 

Beefsteak  Toast   27 

Beef  Tongue   27 

Boiled  Meats   27 

Beef  a  la  Mode   27 

Corned  Beef,  boiled.  .   27 

Ham  Balls  28 

Ham.  broiled   28 

Ham,  fried   28 

Ham,  grated   29 

Ham,  Tongue  and  Chicken 

Sandwiches   29 

Heart,  baked   29 


Chicken,  baked   39 

Chicken  or  Quail,  broiled ...  39 

Chicken  Croquettes   40 

Chicken,  Fricasseed   40 

Chicken  Pie   40 

Chicken  Pie  with  Oysters ...  41 

Chicken  Pot  Pie   41 

Chicken,  Pressed   42 


Bean   45 

Cabbage   45 

Chicken   45 

Cold  Slaw  or  Salad  Dressing  47 

Cold  Slaw,  Plain   47 

Cold  Slaw   47 

Cream    Dressing    for  Cold 

Slaw  .   47 

Cream  Slaw   47 


Page. 

Lamb  Chops   30 

Lamb  Chops,  fried   30 

Lamb  Stewed  with  Peas   30 

Liver,  Chopped   30 

Liver,  fried   30 

Mutton,  boiled,  with  Caper 

Sauce   31 

Pork  and  Beans   31 

Spare-Rib  Pot  Pie   31 

Sweetbread   32 

Sweetbread,  Larded   32 

Sweetbreads  with  Tomatoes  33 

Veal  Loaf   33 

Veal  w'ith  Oysters   33 

A  Brown  Stew   33 

Fricatelii   33 

How  to^make  nice^Gravy ...  34 
To  Corn  Beef.   34 


Chicken  or  Veal,  Pressed ...  42 

Chicken,  steamed   42 

Spring  Chicken,  fried  43 

Turkey,  boiled.  Stuffed  with 

Oysters   43 

Turkey,  Boned   43 

Turkey,  roasted   44 


Cucumber  Salad   47 

Ham  Salad   48 

Lobster  Salad   48 

Oyster  Salad   49 

Pickled  Oysters   49 

Potato  Salad   50 

Salad  Dressing   50 

Salmon  Salad   51 

Tomato  Salad   52 


POULTRY. 


SALADS. 


Index. 


CATSUPS  AND  SAUCES. 


Page. 

Boiled  Cider  Apple  Sauce ...  53 

Celery  Sauce   53 

Cranberry  Sauce   53 

Cucumber  Catsup   54 

Horseradish  Sauce   54 


Page. 


Oyster  Sauce   54 

Mint  Sauce   55 

Onion  Sauce   55 

Roman  Sauce   55 

Tomato  Catsup.  55 


EGGS  AND 


Eggs,  boiled   57 

Eggs,  Pickled   57 

Egg  Balls   58 

Eggs,  Poached   58 

Eggs,  Rumbled   58 

Eggs,  Scrambled   58 


OMELETS. 

Eggs,  Stuffed   59 

To  keep  Eggs. ,   59 

To  make  Omelets   60 

Beef  Omelet   60 

Oyster  Omelet   61 

Omelet  Souffle   61 


VEGETABLES. 


A  Good  Boiled  Dinner   62 

Beans   62 

String  Beans   63 

Beets   63 

Beets,  baked   64 

Beet  Greens   64 

Cabbage   64 

Cabbage,  fried   65 

Cabbage,  fried  or  stewed ...  65 

Cabbage,  Stuffed   65 

To  keep  Cabbage   65 

Corn,  Bina's  stewed   66 

Corn,  boiled   66 

Corn,  dried   66 

Egg  Plant   66 

Lettiice,  Southern,  fried ....  67 

Macaroni,  boiled   67 

Okra  and  Tomatoes   67 

Onions,  boiled  or  fried   67 

Peas,  stewed  in  Cream .....  68 


Potato  Balls   68 

Potatoes,  boiled   68 

Potatoes,  boiled  or  baked ...  68 
Potatoes  boiled  in  Jackets.  .  69 

Potato  Cakes   69 

Potatoes,  fried   69 

Potatoes,  grilled   69 

Potatoes,  Mashed   70 

Potatoes,  New   70 

Potatoes,  Saratoga   70 

Potatoes,  stewed   71 

Rice,  boiled   71 

Sauer  Kraut   71 

Succotash   72 

Succotash  in  Winter   72 

Tomatoes,  baked   72 

Tomatoes,  Escalloped  73 

Tomatoes,  fried   73 

Tomatoes,  Mother's  Sliced.  .  73 
Squash,  Winter   73 


YEAST. 

Yeast  to  Last  Six  Months ...  83     Potato  Yeast  without  Hops .  84 

Dry  Yeast   83     Potato  Yeast   84 

Hop  Yeast   83     Baking  Powder   84 


Index 


264 


BREAD-MAKING. 


Page. 


To  Bake  Bread   74 

Rye  and  Indian  Bread  75 

Bread  with  Buttermilk   76 

Bread  with  Potato  Sponge .  .  76 

Hop  Yeast  Bread   76 

Rye  Bread   77 

Brown  Bread   77 

Boston  Brown  Bread   78 

Corn  Bread   TO 


Page. 

Graham  and  Corn  Bread. ...  79 

Graham  Bread   80 

Graham  Bread,  Providence 

Style   81 

Indian  Loaf,  Boston  Style ...  81 

Indian  Bread,  steamed  81 

To  make  good  Food  of  poor 

Bread   82 


BREAKFAST  AND  TEA  CAKES. 


Breakfast  Toast   85 

Buttered  Toast   85 

Buns   86 

Gems   86 

Cold  Water  Gems   86 

Good  Graham  Gems   86 

Sweet  Milk  Gems   87 

Fritters   87 

Apple  Fritters   87 

Clam  Fritters   87 

Com  Fritters   88 

Rice  Puffs.   88 

Corn  Oysters    88 

Cucumber  Fritters   88 

Cream  Fritters   88 

Snow  Fritters   88 

Muffins   88 


Graham  Muffins   89 

Pocket  Books   89 

Flannel  Rolls   89 

French  Rolls   89 

Minnesota  Rolls   90 

Parker  House  Rolls   90 

Wedding  Sandwich  Rolls ...  91 

Rusk   92 

Ohio  Waffles   92 

Quick  Waffles   92 

Raised  Waffles   92 

Rice  Waffles  93 

Vanities   93 

Fried  Mush.  .  .  . :   9:5 

Johnny  Cake   93 

Rolled  Pancakes   98 


CAKES. 


Almond  Cake   94 

Almond  Cake  Loaf   94 

Apple  Fruit  Cake   95 

Angels'  Food   95 

Black  Cake   96 

Boiled  Frosting.  . ,   96 

Bride's  Cake   96 

Chocolate  Cake   96 

Chocolate  Custard  Cake. ...  97 


Cinnamon  Snaps.  .  .  .•   97 

Cinnamon  Cake  , .  97 

Citron  Cake   98 

Clove  Snaps   98 

Cocoanut  Cake   98 

Coffee  Cake   98 

Cookies   99 

Corn  Starch  Cake   09 

Crullers  .'   99 


Index. 


CAKE. — Continued. 


Page. 

Cup  Cake  100 

Custard  Cake  100 

Delicate  Cake  100 

Gold  Cake  100 

Fruit  Cake....  101 

Dimples  101 

Doughnuts  101 

Election  Cake,  Old  Hartford  102 

Election  Cake,  Salem.  .  .  102 

Feather  Cake  102 

Fig  Cake  103 

French  Cream  Cake  103 

Fruit  Cake  104 

Fruit  Cake  without  Eggs.  ..105 

Fruit  Tart  105 

Fruit  Cake,  Temperance.  ...105 

Ginger  Snaps  105 

Soft  Ginger  Snaps.  .  106 

Alum  Gingerbread  106 

Soft  Gingerbread  10(3 

Soft    Gingerbread,  without 

Eggs  106 

Sponge  Gingerbread  106 

Ginger  Drops.  107 

Ginger  Drop  Cakes  10T 

Golden  Cream  Cake  107 

Groom's  Cake  107 

Hard  Times  Cake  107 

Hard  Money  Cake   108 

Hickory  Nut  Jumbles  108 

Imperial  Cake  108 

Imperium  Cake  109 

Ice  Cream  Cake  '  109 


Aunty  Phelps'  Pie  Crust  120 

Good  Common  Paste  120 

Graham  Paste   ...121 

Puff  Paste  121 

Graham  Pie  Crust  121 


Page. 

Jumbles  109 

Lady  Cake  109 

Lady  Cake,  Loaf  109 

Lady '  s  Fingers  110 

Lemon  Cake  110 

Loaf  Cake  110 

Marble  Cake  Ill 

Marbled  Chocolate  Cake  112 

Modelines  112 

Mountain  Cake  112 

Nut  Cake  112 

Orange  Cake  113 

Icing  for  Orange  Cake  113 

Peach  Cake  113 

Pound  Cake  113 

Raisin  Cake  114 

Rice  Cake  114 

Richard  Cake  114 

Snow  Cake  114 

Soda  Pound  Cake  114 

Spice  Cake  115 

Sponge  Cake  115 

Boiled  Icing  116 

Sponge  Muffins  117 

Sugar  Drops  117 

Trifles  117 

Washington  Cake  118 

White  Pound  Cake   119 

White  Cake  ....112 

White  Tumbler  Cake  119 

White  Sponge  Cake  119 

Whipped  Cream  Cake  119 


Pie  Crust  121 

Almond  Tarts!  122 

Apple  Custard  Pie.  122 

Dried  Apple  Pie  122 

Sliced  Apple  Pie  122 


PASTRY. 


34 


2(56 


Index. 


PASTRY — Con  tin  fed  . 


Page, 


Banana  Pie  122 

Cocoanut  Pie  123 

Cocoanut  Tarts  123 

Cream  Tarts  123 

Ripe  Currant  Pie  123 

Green  Currant  Pie  123 

Custard  Pie  124 

Lemon  Pie  124 

Mince  Meat  121 

Apple  Dumplings  128 

Apple  Dumplings,  rolled.  .  .  .128 
Apple  Dumplings,  boiled. .  .129 

Apple  Pudding  129 

Apple  Pudding,  baked  129 

Apple  Tapioca  Pudding  129 

Apple  Roly  Poly  129 

Bird's  Nest  Pudding  130 

Boston  Snow  Pudding  130 

Brown  Pudding  130 

Cliocolate  Pudding  130 

Cocoanut  Pudding  131 

Cottage  Pudding  131 

Corn  Starch  Pudding  131 

Cream  Pudding  132 

Eggless  Plum  Pudding  132 

Fig  Pudding  132 

Flour  Pudding  133 

Frozen  Pudding  133 

Fruit  Pudding,  boiled  133 

Fruit  Pudding  133 

Grandmother's  Pudding. . .  .134 
Half  Batch  Plum  Pudding.  .135 
Half  Hour  Pudding  135 


Page. 

Mock  Mince  Pie  125 

Orange  Pie   ..126 

Pie  Plant  Pie  126 

Pine  Apple  Pie  126 

Potato  Pie  126 

Pumpkin  Pie  126 

Sand  Tarts  12? 

Tart  Shells  127 


Indian  Pudding  135 

Indian  Pudding,  boiled  135 

Lemon  Pudding  136 

March  Pudding  136 

Minute  Pudding  136 

Molasses  Pudding  137 

Plum  Pudding  137 

Poor  Man's  Pudding  138 

Queen  of  Puddings  138 

Rice  Pudding  138 

Rice  Pudding,  Plain  139 

Rice  Snow  Balls  139 

Sago  and  Apple  Pudding.  .  .139 

Steam  Pudding  139 

Cocoanut  Sauce  140 

Cold  Cream  Sauce  140 

Cream  Sauce  140 

Every  Day  Sauce  140 

Lemon  Sauce  .140 

Maple  Sugar  Sauce  141 

Orange  Hard  Sauce  141 

Pine  Apple  Sauce  141 

Plain  Cream  Sauce  141 


PUDDINGS  AXD  SAUCES. 


DESSERTS. 


Milk-made  Desserts   142     Apple  Float  144 

Ambrosia  144     Apple  Tapioca  144 


Index. 


267 


DESSERTS— Continued. 


Page. 

Blanc  Mange  Pie   144 

Blanc  Mange,  Colored  145 

Chocolate  Blanc  Mange  145 

Charlotte  Russe  145 

Charlotte  Russe,  White .  146 

Bohemian  Creams  147 

Hamburg  Cream  148 

Italian  Cream  148 

Rice  Cream  149 

Rock  Cream  149 

Spanish  Cream  149 

Tapioca  Cream  149 

Baked  Cup  Custard  150 


Page. 

Hard  Custard  150 

Lemon  Custard  150 

Milk  Custard  150 

Snow  Custard  150 

Gelatine  Custard  151 

Soft  Custard  151 

Hedge  Hog  151 

Jelly  152 

Coffee  Jelly  152 

Moonshine  152 

Orange  Float  153 

Snow  Flakes  153 

Whips  153 


ICES  AND  ICE  CREAMS. 


Apple  Ice  154 

Currant  Ice  155 

Lemon  Ice,  or  Sherbet  155 

Lemon  Water  Ice  155 

Orange  Ice  155 

Orange  Water  Ice  155 

Raspberry  or  Strawberry  Ice  155 
Strawberry  or  other  Fruit 

Iced  Custard   156 

Brown  Ice  Cream  156 

Caramel  Cream  156 


Chocolate  Ice  Cream  156 

Lemon  Ice  Cream  157 

Our  Ice  Cream  157 

Pine  Apple  Ice  Cream  157 

Plain  Ice  Cream  158 

Strawberry  Ice  Cream  158 

Tea  Ice  Cream  158 

Strawberry  or  Raspberry  Ice 

Cream  158 

Vanilla  Ice  Cream  158 


PRESERVES,  J 


Apricot  Jam  160 

Brandy  Peaches  160 

Calves'  Foot  Jelly  160 

Cherry  Preserves  160 

Citron  Preserves  160 

Crab  Apple  Jelly  161 

Cranberry  Jelly  161 

Currant  Jelly  161 

Preserved  Citron  162 

All  kinds  of  Berry  and  Cur- 
rant Jams  162 


LIES  ANDJAMS. 

Currant  Jelly  162 

Red  Currant  Jelly  162 

Egg  Butter  163 

Fig  Preserves  163 

Isinglass  Jelly  163 

Jellies  without  Fruit  163 

Lemon  Butter  163 

Lemon  Jelly  164 

Orange  Jelly  164 

Orange  Maramalade  164 


Peach  Butter  with  Cider  165 


268 


Index. 


PRESERVES.  JELLIES  AND  JAMS.— Continued. 


Page. 

Peach  Butter  or  Marmalade .  165 

Peach  Preserves  16c 

Pear  Preserves  165 

Peaches,  Spiced  166 

Plum  Preserves  166 

Plum  Marmalade  166 


Page. 

Quince  or  Apple  Preserves.  .166 

Quince  Jelly  167 

Raspberry  Jam  167 

Strawberry  Jam  168 

Strawberry  Preserves  168 

Wine  Jellv  168 


Berries,  Plain. 

Peaches   

Pears  


CAXXIXG  FRUITS. 

 169     Strawberries  170 

 169     Tomatoes  171 

 170     Additional  Directions  171 


Apple  Sauce  

Baked  Apples  .173 

Baked  Sour  Apples  .173 

Baked  Sweet  Apples  173 

Fried  Apples  178 

Black  Caps  173 

Iced  Apples  174 

To  Keep  Apples  174 


FRUITS 
172 


To  Keep  Lemons  174 

Peach  Pyramid  1 74 

Baked  Peaches  175 

Frozen  Peaches  : ...  .175 

To  Keep  Pine  Apples  175 

Baked  Quinces  175 

Mock  Strawberries  175 


PICKLES. 


Pickled  Artichokes  176 

Bean  Pickles  177 

Sweet  Pickled  Beets  177 

Pickled  Cabbage  177 

Pickled  Cherries  177 

Chow  Chow  178 

Chow  Chow  Pickles  178 

Pickled  Cucumbers  178 

Ripe  Cucumber  Pickles  179 

Cucumber  Relish  179 

French  Pickles  180 

Pickled  Grapes  180 

Spiced  Grapes  180 

Mangoes  180 

Spiced  Nutmeg  Melon  181 

Made  Mustard  181 

Pickled  Onions  181 

Peach  Pickles  182 


Pepper  Sauce  182 

Piccalilly  172 

Pickles  182 

Pickles  a  la  France  183 

Pickled  Raisins  183 

Plums,  Euchered  183 

Pyfer  Pickles  183 

Soy  184 

Green   Tomato   Soy  184 

Strawberry  Pickles  184 

Sweet  Pickles  ...185 

Tomato  Chow  Chow  185 

Tomato  Pickles  185 

Tomato  Figs  186 

Ripe  Tomato  Pickles  186 

Vinegar,  Honey  186 

Vinegar,  to  make  186 

Vinegar.  Ra  spberry  181 


Index. 


269 


CANDIES,  FROSTINGS,  &c. 


Butter  Scotch  

Butter  Taffy  

Caramels  

Chocolate  Caramels . 
Cocoanut  Caramels . . 
Chocolate  Drops.  . . . 

Cream  Candy  

Kisses  

Nut  Taffy  


Pop  Corn  Balls  190 


Page.  Page. 

...188  Taffy  190 

...188  Vanity  Puffs  190 

...188  Frosting  191 

. . .  188  Boiled  Frosting   191 

. . .  189  Frosting  with  Gelatine  191 

. .  .  189  Hickory  Nut  Frosting  191 

. .  .189  Ornamental  Frosting  192 

. .  .189  Rose  Coloring  192 

.  .  .190  Yellow  Frosting  192 


DRINKS. 


Filtered  Coffee  193 

Making  Coffee  194 

Making  Tea  194 

Rye  Coffee  195 

Coffee  with  Whipped  Cream  195 

Chocolate  195 

Soda  Beer  195 

Domestic  Champagne  196 

Sham  Champagne  196 

Currant  Wine  196 


Lemonade  196 

Grandmother's  Harvest 

Drink  .197 

Lemon  Syrup  197 

Paris  Punch  197 

Claret  Punch  197 

Sherbets  197 

Raspberry  Shrub  198 

Cream  Soda  without  a  Foun- 
tain .198 


FOOD  FOR 

Arrowroot  Custard  199 

Beef  Broth  199 

Beef  Tea  199 

Broiled  Beefsteak  200 

Broiled    Chicken,  Squirrel, 

Quail,  or  Wookcock  200 

Chicken  Broth  200 

Crust  Coffee  200 

Cream  Soup   200 

Egg  Gruel  201 

HINTS  FOR  CARE  OF  THE  SICK 

For  Worms  203 

For  Colds  203 

For  Colic  in  Children  203 

Beef  Tea  203 

For  Burns  203 


THE  SICK. 

Uncooked  Egg   .201 

Fever  Drink  201 

Graham  Gems  for  Invalids .  .  201 

Jellice  201 

Mulled  Buttermilk  202 

Milk  Porridge  202 

Rice  Water  202 

Sago  Custard  202 

Sick  Room  Wash  202 


Liniment  203 

Cure  for  Wounds  from  Rusty 

Nails  203 

To  Cure  Chilblains  203 

For  Quinsy  203 


270 


Index. 


HINTS  FOR  CARE  OF  THE  SICK. — Continued. 


Page. 

Frosted  Feet  203 

For  Sick  Headache  203 

For  Stiff  Joints  203 

For  Sore  Throat  203 

For  Rheumatism  204 

To  Stop  Bleeding  204 

For  Dressing  Cuts,  Wounds 

or  Sores  204 

To  Stop  Bleeding  at  the  Nose  204 

Alum  Whey   .204 

Remedy  for*Piles  204 

Dyspepsia  204 

To  Absorb  Bad  Air  204 

(Aire  for  Felon  204 

To  Remove  Warts  204 

For  Ivy  Poisoning  205 

For  Burns  and  Bruises  205 

Cherokee  Liniment  205 

For  the  Lungs  205 

Cure  for  Milk-Crust  205 

For  a  Cold  205 

For  Erysipelas  205 

To  Prevent  a  Child  Cough- 
ing at  Night  205 


Page. 


To  Prevent  Taking  Cold. .  . . 200 
For  Sore  Mouth  in  Nursing 

Babies  206 

Bad  Breath  206 

Catarrh  Cold  206 

Treatment  of  Diphtheria  206 

Neuralgia  207 

To  Cure  a  Felon  207 

Mustard  Plaster  207 

Sure  Cure  for  Croup  207 

Antidote  to  Poisons  208 

A  Cure  for  Small  Pox  and 

Scarlet  Fever  208 

For  Rheumatism  208 

For  Constipation  209 

Sudden  Prostration.  ....... .209 

Cold  Cream  for  Chapped  Lips  209 

Blackberry  Cordial  210 

Cough  Mixture  210 

Catarrh  210 

Fainting^  211 

Lip  Salves  211 

Shock  from  Cold  Water  211 

For  Chapped  Hands.  &c.  .  .  .211 


HINTS  FOR  THE  WELL. 

General  Suggestions .  . .  212—214  Freckles  216 

The  Nose  215  Dandruff  216 

The  Hands  215  Food  216 

The  Feet  215  Pimples  216 

The  Neck  216 


THE  HOUSEHOLD. 


General  Remarks  217—219     Care  of  Butter 

Insect  Pests  220     Care  of  Meats  . 


221 
222 


Index. 


271 


THE  WARDROBE. 


Page. 

Various  Items  223 

To  Restore  Velvet.  ..  224 

To  Press  Satin  224 

To  Take  out  Mildew  225 

To  Clean  Alpaca  225 

To  Clean  Black  Lace  225 

To  Clean  Straw  Hats  225 

To  Remove  Grease  Spots  from 
Silk,  Cotton,  Worsted,  or 
Linen  Goods  225 


To  Dress  Old  Silk  or  Satin.  .226 


Page. 

For  Cleaning-  Kid  Gloves, 

Silk,  Etc  22(5 

Black  for  Woolens  226 

To  Color  Woolen  Fine  Claret  226 
To    Color  Woolen  Russian 

Brown  226 

Coloring-  22? 

To    Color    Woolen  Bottle 

Green  227 

To  Color  Purple  227 

Dove  and  Slate  Colors  227 


THE  LAUNDRY. 


To  Wash  Colored  Muslins  .  .229 
To  Wash  Delicate  Colored 

Muslins  229 

To  Bleach  Muslin  229 

Washing  Fluid  229 

To  Wash  Flannels  in  Boiling 

Water  230 

To  Make  Bluing  for  Clothes. 230 
To  Prevent  Blue  from  Fading  230 

Coffee  Starch  230 

Flour  Starch  230 

To  Make  Fine  Starch  231 

Enamel  for  Shirt  Bosoms.  .  .231 


Polish  for  Shirt  Fronts  and 

Collars  231 

Starch  Polish  231 

Gall  Soap  231 

Bar  Soap  232 

Hard  Soap  232 

To  Remove  Ink  Stains  232 

To  Remove  Fruit  Stains  from 

Table  Linens ...   232 

The  end  of  Iron  Mould  232 

Care  of  Irons  233 

To  Take  out  Scorch  233 

Flat  Irons  233 


HOUSE  PLANTS  AND  FLOWERS. 


To   Keep  Plants  at  Night 

without  Fire  235 

Flowers  for  the  Table.  ....  .235 

Hanging  Baskets  236 

Window  Gardening  236 

Ivies  236 

To  Revive  Withering  Flow- 
ers  .236 


Warm  Water  237 

Re-potting  Plants  23? 

To  Keep  Cut  Roses  Fresh.  ..237 
To  Preserve  Flowers  in  Wa- 
ter 237 

Grub  Worms  237 

Canary  Birds  23b 


272 


Index. 


MISCELLANEOUS. 


Page. 

A  Cheap  Paint  239 

Bandoline  for  Hair  239 

Brandy  Peaches  239 

Cement  for  Jet  239 

Cologne  Water  239 

Corn  Bread  239 

Cologne  Water  240 

Curd  or  Cottage  Cheese. . .  .240 

Scent  for  Sachets  240 

Golden  Honey  240 

To  Clean  Jewelry  240 


Page. 

Lime  Water  and  its  Uses .  . .  241 

Milk  of  Roses.   241 

Queen  Bess  Complexion 

Wash  241 

Spiced  Currants  241 

Spiced  Gooseberries  242 

Strawberry  Short  Cake  242 

Strawberry  Biscuit  242 

To  Crimp  Hair  Effectually.  .242 
Whiskey  Plums.   242 


SOCIAL  ENTERTAINMENTS. 


Kettle  Drums  243 

Breakfast  Parties  and  High 
Teas  246 


Luncheon  Parties  249 

Luncheon  Parties  250 

Other  Evening  Affairs  251 


BILLS  OF  FARE. 


For  Spring  252 

For  Summer  253 

For  Fall  254 

For  Winter  255 

Economical  Breakfasts  256 

Economical  Dinners  256 

Lunches  256 

Thanksgiving  Dinners  256 

Christmas  Dinners  257 

New  Year's  Dinners  257 


New  Year's  Table  257 

Sunday  Dinner . .  .  . '  257 

Spring  Picnics  «  .  .  .258 

Summer  Picnics  258 

Fall  Picnics  259 

Refreshments  259 


Refreshments  for  Twenty.  .  .259 
Refreshments  for  a  Hundred  259 
Refreshments  for  One  Hun- 
dred and  Seventy-Five  260 


I 


I 


