^  %.   v^^' 


.:CglE^^ 


'^.  >^  ^. 


\r,^,^'./-     ‚Ä¢^. 


,'X^'     ^ 


^v^  .>^.n¬∞' 


>0  c?^ 


.0-' 


"O. 


l.'^-' 


toP^  .>:^'^ 


^^<=,^ 


V  v^  ‚ñÝ^^.  ^^.:    .  .    ^^'^^    -..,   ^.fc   ^ -^  -.<^    ...     x^^.     , 


0  o        .       'tU 


'^>,       ^,'^T^^s^        NJ> 


\"^^ 


0  X 


<-.r.\ 


/'  .^0  \  '¬´-  ;\^^\    o''"--  '  ^'-\-¬∞ 


0^  .‚ñÝ\ 


."^.  o-o 


oo^ 


:     o:^ 


'i>,  .*' 


\..'--\>^^:: 


‚Ä¢X^^'  '"^^c. 


'  '%Ski>¬ªJi^  X*   .  ^'<' 


‚ñÝ  \-^^s  J'  %  '-> 


‚Ä¢'..  ,x^^ 


.^^' 


‚ñÝ/-v 


^^  =\4 


."      x^'    ^^ 


V    .  >^  ^ 


0    v'^^-S'-^^. 


CO' 


V  .x^^ 


r\  :     <>  "i" 


^-^ 


0  s 


.Oo^ 


^^>'  . 


vO  O^         ,   - -iT' 


\\    %  .vx^^ 


>5.'-:<^ 


^\  />, 


^  .‚ñÝ       N<^      '‚ñÝ'        -     -^ 


mi  II. 


'/ 


..>^.'  A^^'^^' 


.V\^       co^ 


,0  o^ 


^V    -v. 


v.;V--\o^^\-. 


K^"  '^'^^  '^xm 


^i>        *   0    N  0  ^       ^^0 


.*       cO  <^r.        >- 


o^.-.>,  '^.  *-^'  .>"- 


X...^^^‚ñÝ 


ameeica:^  cuisine 


BY/ 

GESINE   LEMCKE 


Beauty,  health,  and  happiness  depend 
upon  the  kind  of  food  we  eat. 


JUN    6     1895 

>. ..^t^  ' 


^17 


NEW    YORK 

D.    APPLETON    AND    COMPANY 

1895 


x^ 


V 


Copyright,  1895, 
By  D.  APPLETON  AND  COMPANY. 


PKEFACE. 


What  science  can  boast  of  having  done  more  for  the  happiness 
of  humanity  and  the  advance  of  the  civilization  of  the  world  than 
the  art  of  cooking  ?  It  is  strange  that  this,  the  most  valuable,  is  so 
often  left  in  the  hands  of  the  ignorant.  It  should  be  the  duty 
of  every  woman  who  expects  to  become  a  wife  and  mother  to 
study  the  art  of  cooking  and  the  science  of  domestic  affairs,  for  the 
destiny  of  the  world  depends  upon  the  food  we  eat. 

Never  is  a  man  more  susceptible  to  kind  and  noble  deeds  than 
after  partaking  of  a  good  meal.  And  I  sincerely  hope  that  this 
work  may  be  of  benefit,  and  give  able  assistance,  to  our  many  tried 
housekeepers  in  preparing  healthy  and  nutritious  food. 

Gesine  Lemcke. 


CONTENTS. 


PAGE 

PAGE 

Soups,  etc.      . 

.          1 

Sea  Food,  etc.  {Continued). 

Soups  without  Meat 

.    62 

Salmon     . 

.  179 

.  Fruit  and  Wine  Soups 

.    64 

Trout 

.  190 

Beer  and  Milk  Soups 

.     67 

Carp 

.  192 

Forcemeats    . 

.     73 

Shad 

.  196 

Forcemeat  Balls  and  Dump 

LINGS      78 

Sheepshead 

.        .  202 

Small  Dumplings  for  Frui 

r  AND 

Kingfish  . 

.  204 

Wine  Soups 

.    82 

Haddock  . 

.  205 

Sauces    .... 

.     89 

Red  Snapper    . 

.  307 

Cold  Sauces  . 

.  107 

Whitebait 

.  209 

Butters,  etc. 

.  Ill 

Whitefish 

.  210 

Essences,  etc. 

.  113 

Weakfish 

.  210 

Sea  Food,  etc. 

.  116 

Perch 

.  213 

Oysters     . 

.  116 

Pike.        .        .        . 

.  216 

Clams 

.  124 

Pompano  . 

.  221 

Mussels    > 

.  130 

Bluefish    . 

.  323 

Shrimps   . 

.  131 

Butterfish 

.  324 

Lobster    . 

.  132 

Blaekfish  . 

.  225 

Crabs        . 

‚Ä¢    .  137 

Bass. 

.  226 

Soft-shell  Crabs 

.  138 

Meats     .... 

.  233 

Frogs 

.  139 

Beef 

.  233 

Terrapin  . 

.  140 

Veal.        .        .        . 

.  374 

Scallops    . 

.  141 

Sweetbreads     . 

.  395 

Eels.        .        . 

.  142 

Lamb 

.  300 

Smelts      . 

.  148 

Mutton     . 

.  313 

Flounders  and  Sole . 

.  150 

Cold  Lamb  and  Mutton 

.  329 

Halibut    . 

.  156 

Pork 

.  331 

Turbot     . 

.  158 

Cold  Pork        . 

.  348 

Fresh  Mackerel 

.  160 

Poultry. 

.  357 

Salt  Mackerel  . 

.  165 

Chicken    . 

.  358 

Herring    . 

.  166 

Cold  Chicken    . 

.  387 

Fresh  Codfish  . 

.  170 

Turkey     . 

.  393 

Codfish     . 

.  170 

Cold  Turkey    . 

.  398 

Salt  Codfish      .        . 

.  174 

Geese 

.  404 

CONTENTS. 


Poultry  {Continued). 

Duck        .... 

Pigeon  .... 
Salpicon  .... 
Game 

Canvasback  Duck,  etc.     . 

Venison,  Hare,  Rabbit,  etc. 
Sandwiches  and  Canapes 
Vegetables    . 

Potatoes   . 

Sweet  Potatoes 

Tomatoes. 

Asparagus 

Cabbage,  etc.    . 

Beans 

Peas . 

Carrots,  Turnips,  etc. 

Corn,  Beets,  Celery,  etc. 

Cucumbers,  etc. 


413 
421 
426 
430 
430 
446 
454 
458 
458 
470 
471 
475 
477 
485 
491 


600 


Vegetables  Continued). 

Oyster  Plant,   Parsnip,   Arti- 
choke, etc 504 

Truffles 507 

Mushrooms      ....  508 

Onions 512 

Purees,  etc 518 

Macaeoni  and  Nudles  .        .        .  516 

Nudles 518 

Rice,  Hominy,  and  Bread  Crou- 

stades 522 

Cheese  Dishes       ....  529 

Egg  Dishes 532 

Pancakes,  Muffins,  Gems,  etc.     .  543 
Bread,  Cakes,  etc.         .        .        .  550 

Punches 579 

Fruit  Shrubs        ....  585 
Chafing  Dishes     ....  587 


EUROPEAN   AND   AMERICAN   CUISINE. 


SOUPS,  Etc. 

Large  Bouquet. ‚Äî Place  on  top  of  3  clean  sprigs  of  parsley 
1  sprig  of  thyme,  1  bay  leaf,  3  cloves,  1  blade  of  mace,  and  9  whole 
peppers ;  fold  the  parsley  around  the  herb  and  spice,  so  as  to  inclose 
them  entirely  inside  the  parsley ;  then  tie  it  tightly  with  a  white 
string,  and  use  as  directed  in  various  recipes. 

Small  Bouquet. ‚Äî Place  on  top  of  1  sprig  of  clean  parsley  74 
bay  leaf,  74  blade  of  mace,  1  clove,  73  sprig  of  thyme,  and  6  whole 
peppers;  inclose  the  herb  and  spice  in  the  parsley,  tie  it  with  a 
white  string,  and  use  as  directed  in  various  recipes. 

Consomme. ‚Äî Cut  3  pounds  of  beef,  3  pounds  of  veal,  and  1 
chicken  into  small  pieces.  Spread  the  bottom  of  a  soup  kettle  with 
butter,  cover  this  with  2  thin  slices  of  raw  ham,  on  top  of  this  place 
the  meat,  adding  2  quarts  of  cold  water,  and  set  the  kettle  over  a 
medium  hot  fire ;  let  it  boil  slowly  until  the  water  has  boiled  away 
and  the  bottom  of  the  kettle  is  covered  with  a  rich  brown  gravy. 
Great  care  must  be  taken  not  to  have  the  fire  too  strong,  so  that  it 
does  not  burn  ;  otherwise  the  bouillon  will  be  worthless.  Frequent 
stirring  is  necessary  while  boiling.  Then  add  enough  cold  water  to 
cover  the  meat,  add  72  tablespoonful  salt,  1  sliced  carrot,  1  white 
turnip,  1  celery  root,  2  large  onions,  and  a  bouquet;  cover  the  kettle 
tightly,  and  let  it  boil  slowly  until  the  meat  separates  from  the 
bone ;  then  remove  the  meat,  strain  the  broth,  free  it  from  every 
particle  of  fat,  return  the  broth  to  the  kettle,  beat  the  whites  of  3 

1 


2  SOUPS,  Etc. 

eggs  to  a  stiff  froth,  mix  them  with  Yg  gill  of  cold  water,  add  to  the 
soup,  stir  and  boil  5  minutes ;  then  draw  the  kettle  to  side  of  stove  ; 
let  it  remain  10  minutes.  Put  a  sieve  over  a  saucepan,  lay  a  napkin 
in  the  sieve,  then  pour  in  the  consomme  and  strain  it  through  the 
napkin.  The  consomme  must  be  transparent  and  have  a  rich 
brown  color.  It  is  the  basis  of  all  clear  soups,  and  is  also  served  in 
cups  at  lunches  and  suppers. 

Plain  Soup  Stock. ‚Äî Chop  into  pieces  a  shank  of  beef  weigh- 
ing from  3  to  4  pounds ;  place  in  a  soup  kettle  ;  add,  if  handy,  a 
small  shank  of  veal,  meat  gravies,  and  any  fine-chopped  bones  that 
may  be  at  hand ‚Äî from  roasted  meat  or  poultry ;  also  a  piece  of  liver 
or  kidney  may  be  added;  cover  all  with  cold  water;  set  the  kettle 
over  a  slow  fire,  let  it  heat  gradually  until  it  boils ;  then  add  Yg 
tablespoonful  salt,  2  onions,  2  leeks,  2  stalks  of  celery,  1  small  carrot, 
1  white  turnip,  and  a  large  bouquet ;  cover  tightly,  and  let  it  boil 
gently  till  the ^ meat  falls  from  the  bone;  then  remove  the  meat, 
strain  the  stock  through  a  napkin,  and  free  it  from  every  particle  of 
fat.  If  not  used  at  once,  let  it  cool ;  then  put  it  into  a  stone  jar  or 
glass  jars ;  cover  and  place  it  in  the  ice  box.  It  will  keep  for  three 
days  in  summer,  and  for  one  week  in  winter.  This  stock  is  used  for 
all  plain  soups. 

White  Stock. ‚Äî Take  a  shank  of  beef  and  veal  weighing  3 
pounds  each ;  remove  the  breast,  legs,  and  thighs  of  a  well-cleaned 
chicken  (reserve  them  for  other  purposes) ;  chop  the  body  of  the 
chicken  into  pieces,  also  the  beef  and  veal ;  place  them  in  a  soup 
kettle ;  add  the  giblets  and  the  well-cleaned  feet  of  the  chicken,  and 
cover  all  with  cold  water ;  place  the  kettle  over  a  slow  fire,  let  it 
heat  gradually  until  it  begins  to  boil ;  then  add  2  leeks,  1  white 
turnip,  3  onions,  1  carrot,  a  large  bouquet,  and  Y2  tablespoonful 
salt ;  cover  the  kettle  tightly,  and  let  the  stock  simmer  gently  till 
the  meat  separates  from  the  bone ;  then  remove  the  meat ;  strain 
the  stock  into  a  clean  saucepan ;  free  it  from  every  particle  of  fat. 

stiff  frotl),  mix  with  Y2  giU  of  cold 


SOUPS,  Etc.  3 

water,  add  it  to  the  stock ;  place  the  saucepan  over  the  fire,  stir  and 
boil  5  minutes ;  then  draw  the  saucepan  to  side  of  stove ;  let  it 
remain  10  minutes;  then  strain  the  stock  through  a  napkin.  If 
not  used  at  once,  put  away  in  glass  jars,  and  keep  in  a  cool  place. 
Care  must  be  taken  to  have  the  soup  stock  perfectly  cold  before  the 
jars  are  closed,  and  it  will  then  keep  for  several  days.  This  stock  is 
used  for  all  fine  soups. 

Chicken  Broth. ‚Äî Procure  a  nice  plump  chicken  weighing 
about  SVs  pounds ;  singe,  draw,  and  wash  it  quickly  in  cold  water ; 
or,  in  place  of  washing,  wipe  the  chicken  in  and  outside  with  a 
damp  towel.  Pour  boiling  water  over  the  feet,  let  them  lay  1  min- 
ute, take  out,  remove  the  skin,  and  place  them  with  the  chicken 
and  giblets  in  a  large  saucepan ;  cover  with  cold  water,  add  Yg  table- 
spoonful  salt ;  cover  the  saucepan,  and  place  it  over  a  moderate  fire, 
and  as  it  comes  to  a  boil  remove  all  the  scum ;  then  add  2  leeks,  3 
white  onions,  2  sprigs  of  parsley,  and  1  blade  of  mace ;  keep  the 
saucepan  tightly  covered,  and  boil  slowly  till  the  chicken  is  tender. 
When  done  take  out  the  chicken,  remove  the  meat,  return  the  bones 
to  saucepan,  and  continue  the  boiling  Yg  hour  longer ;  then  strain 
the  broth  through  a  napkin,  remove  all  the  fat,  and  season  to  taste 
with  salt.  If  not  used  at  once,  put  away  in  glass  jars  for  general 
use.  The  broth  should  be  perfectly  cold  before  the  jars  are  closed. 
The  chicken  may  be  served  whole,  with  egg  sauce,  or  Sauce  a 
I'Allemande,  etc. 

Mutton  Broth. ‚Äî Place  2  necks  of  mutton  in  a  saucepan, 
cover  with  cold  water,  add  1  teaspoonful  salt,  and  as  it  comes  to  a 
boil  remove  all  the  scum;  add  Y2  cupful  fine-cut  soup  celery,  1 
onion,  1  sprig  of  parsley,  and  a  small  carrot  cut  into  pieces ;  cover 
tightly  and  boil  until  the  meat  falls  from  the  bones ;  then  strain  it 
through  a  napkin  into  a  bowl ;  remove  every  particle  of  fat,  and  sea- 
son to  taste  with  salt.  This  broth  is  mostly  used  for  invalids.  One 
tablespoonf  ul  of  barley  or  rice  may  be  boiled  with  the  broth.  An- 
other way  is  to  add  to  Y2  pint  of  broth  the  yolk  of  1  egg  and  2 
tablespoonfuls  sweet  cream. 


4:  SOUPS,  Etc. 

Veal  Broth. ‚Äî Place  in  a  soup  kettle  a  knuckle  of  veal  weigh- 
ing from  2  to  3  pounds;  cover  with  cold  water,  and  add  Yo  table - 
spoonful  salt ;  as  it  comes  to  a  boil  remove  all  the  scum  that  rises ; 
then  add  1  white  turnip,  2  onions,  2  leeks,  3  sprigs  of  parsley,  and  1 
blade  of  mace ;  boil  slowly  till  the  meat  falls  apart ;  then  take  it 
out,  remove  all  the  fat  from  the  broth,  strain  it  through  a  sieve  and 
napkin  into  a  bowl,  and  season  to  taste  with  salt.  If  not  used  at 
once,  put  away  in  glass  jars,  and  keep  in  a  cool  place.  Care  must 
be  taken  to  have  the  broth  perfectly  cold  before  the  jars  are  closed  ; 
it  will  then  keep  for  several  days. 

Grlaze. ‚Äî Place  2  pounds  beef,  3  pounds  veal,  and  1  old  chicken 
in  a  soup  kettle  with  sufficient  cold  water  to  cover ;  add  2  onions 
and  1  carrot ;  boil  slowly  4  hours,  without  salt ;  then  strain ;  remove 
the  fat ;  put  the  stock  into  a  stewpan  over  a  clear  fire ;  let  it  boil 
until  it  becomes  somewhat  thick  like  sirup,  keep  stirring  to  prevent 
its  burning ;  then  fill  it  into  small  jars.  Use  for  glazing  large  pieces 
of  roast  meat,  fish,  and  cotelettes.  It  may  also  be  used  for  sauces 
when  they  are  not  strong  enough.  If  the  glaze  is  to  be  kept  for 
some  time,  melt  some  suet  and  pour  a  few  spoonfuls  of  it  over  the 
glaze  when  cold ;  it  will  keep  for  some  time.  When  the  glaze  is  to 
be  used  remove  the  suet,  melt  the  glaze  by  setting  the  jar  in  a  vessel 
of  hot  water;  dip  a  small  brush  in  the  glaze,  and  brush  the  article 
which  is  to  be  glazed  over  with  it.  If  the  glaze  is  wanted  of  a  light 
color,  only  veal  and  chicken  should  be  used.  If  only  a  small  quan- 
tity of  glaze  is  wanted,  any  kind  of  stock,  boiled  down,  will  be  found 
to  produce  a  very  good  glaze. 

Consomm6  with  Rice. ‚Äî Place  a  soup  kettle  with  a  shank  of 
beef  2Y2  pounds  in  weight  over  the  fire ;  cover  with  cold  water ; 
when  it  boils,  add  1  leek,  1  small  carrot,  and  Yo  tablespoohf ul  salt ; 
cut  3  large  onions  into  thick  slices ;  wipe  off  the  cover  of  the  stove ; 
lay  the  onions  on  top  the  cover,  and  let  them  get  dark  brown  on 
both  sides ;  then  add  them  to  the  soup ;  cover  and  boil  slowly  from 
2  to  3  hours.  In  the  meantime  parboil  for  5  minutes  1  cupful 
well- washed  rice ;  drain  and  rinse  it  off  with  cold  water ;  return  the 


SOUPS,  Etc.  5 

rice  to  the  saucepan ;  add  Yg  tablespoonf ul  butter,  1  pint  of  water, 
and  1  even  teaspoonf ul  salt ;  cook  slowly  till  done ;  then  put  the 
rice  into  a  buttered  form,  and  set  it  in  a  warm  place.  Shortly  be- 
fore serving,  strain  the  soup  through  a  napkin ;  season  to  taste  with 
salt ;  pour  it  into  the  tureen ;  turn  the  rice  out  of  form  and  serve 
it  with  the  soup. 

Consomme  with  Sago. ‚Äî Boil  2  or  3  tablespoonfuls  sago  in 
2  quarts  of  stock  for  10  minutes ;  put  some  fine-chopped  parsley 
in  the  tureen,  and  pour  the  soup  over  it  Farina  may  be  used  the 
same  way. 

Consomme  aux  Ravioles. ‚Äî Mix  the  yolks  of  4  eggs  with 
flour  into  a  stiff  paste ;  work  the  paste  on  to  a  floured  board  till  it 
does  not  stick  to  the  hands ;  then  divide  it  into  2  parts,  roll  each 
part  out  into  a  sheet  as  thin  as  paper,  prepare  a  chicken  forcemeat, 
with  few  spoonfuls  grated  Parmesan  cheese ;  place  with  a  teaspoon 
small  portions  on  one  of  the  sheets,  one  inch  apart ;  dip  a  small 
brush  into  cold  water,  and  brush  around  each  portion ;  lay  the 
remaining  sheet  over;  press  the  two  sheets  around  the  forcemeat 
together  with  the  wrong  side  of  a  cutter,  then  cut  them  out  with  a 
larger  cutter,  and  place  them  on  a  floured  board  ;  15  minutes  before 
serving  drop  into  boiling  salted  water  and  cook  10  minutes ;  then 
remove  with  a  skimmer  and  lay  in  the  tureen  ;  pour  3  pints  of  con- 
somme over ;  serve  with  grated  Parmesan  cheese. 

Consomme  aux  Ravioles  a  la  Genoise. ‚Äî Prepare  13  ravi- 
oles  the  same  as  in  foregoing  recipe ;  after  they  are  boiled,  drain 
them  on  a  sieve ;  melt  2  ounces  of  butter  in  a  deep  frying  pan,  let 
it  get  light  brown ;  add  the  ravioles  ;  sprinkle  over  2  tablespoonfuls 
grated  Parmesan  cheese ;  shake  them  to  and  fro  for  a  few  minutes ; 
serve  them  in  a  hot  dish ;  pour  3  pints  of  hot  consomme  in  a 
tureen  and  send  it  to  the  table  with  the  ravioles. 

Consomme  aux  Crotltes  Gratinees.‚Äî Cut  the  rind  from  a 
large  loaf  of  Vienna  bread  into  round  pieces,  dry  them  in  the 
oven ;  spread  a  dish  thickly  with  butter ;  put  in  the  crust ;  pour 


6  SOUPS,  Etc. 

over  a  few  spoonfuls  consomme ;  lay  over  the  top  small  pieces  of 
butter,  sprinkle  over  3  tablespoonfuls  grated  Parmesan  cheese ;  place 
the  dish  for  10  minutes  in  a  hot  oven ;  if  the  crust  should  be  too 
dry  add  a  little  consomm6 ;  put  3  pints  consomme  in  the  tureen ; 
add  Y2  pint  of  boiled  asparagus  tops ;  place  the  dish  with  the  crust 
into  a  silver  dish,  and  serve  it  with  the  consomme. 

Consomme  aux  Proflteroles. ‚Äî Place  1  cup  milk  with  2 
ounces  butter  over  the  fire;  as  soon  as  it  boils  add  4  ounces  flour; 
stir  until  it  forms  into  a  smooth  paste,  then  remove ;  when  nearly 
cold  mix  it  with  the  yolks  of  3  eggs,  and  last  the  beaten  whites ; 
put  this  mixture  into  a  pastry  bag ;  squirt  small  portions,  the  size 
of  a  walnut,  on  to  buttered  pans,  brush  them  over  with  beaten  egg, 
and  bake  in  oven  till  done.  Prepare  a  chicken  forcemeat  from  the 
breast  of  1  young  chicken ;  mix  it  with  2  tablespoonfuls  Parmesan 
cheese ;  open  the  proflteroles  on  the  sides,  and  flll  them  with  the 
forcemeat ;  return  to  oven,  bake  10  minutes,  and  serve  on  a  plate; 
put  Ya  pi^it  cooked  cauliflower  roses  and  green  peas  in  the  tureen ; 
pour  3  pints  hot  consomme  over,  and  serve  with  the  proflteroles. 

Consomme  aux   Proflteroles    a   I'ltalienne.‚Äî Bake    the 

proflteroles  the  same  as  in  foregoing  recipes,  but  a  little  larger;  cut 
from  the  top  a  small  piece ;  flll  them  with  the  preparation  men- 
tioned below ;  prepare  1  cupful  chicken  forcemeat  of  Yg  the  breast 
of  a  young  chicken,  season  the  remaining  half  with  little  salt,  and 
place  it  with  the  chicken  liver  in  a  saucepan  ;  add  1  ounce  butter 
and  6  flne-cut  mushrooms  ;  cover  and  cook  till  done,  without  brown- 
ing ;  then  mix  it  with  the  forcemeat  and  use  it  as  directed  above. 
Place  them  in  a  dish ;  add  little  consomme  and  a  small  piece  of 
butter  or  bouillon  fat  ;  cover  with  grated  Parmesan  cheese,  and 
bake  15  minutes.  Serve  the  consoram^  in  a  tureen ;  set  the  dish 
with  the  proflteroles  in  a  silver  dish,  and  serve  with  the  consomme. 

Consomme  with  Kaiser-Nockerl. ‚Äî Place  a  saucepan  with 
Y2  cup  milk  over  the  flre ;  add  Ys  tablespoonful  butter,  little  salt, 
and  nutmeg ;  as  soon  as  it  boils  add  Y2  cup  of  flour ;  stir  till  it 


SOUPS,  Etc.  Y 

forms  into  a  smootli  paste  ;  remove,  and  when  nearly  cold  add  the 
yolks  of  2  eggs,  1  whole  egg,  and  1  heaping  tablespoonful  Parme- 
san cheese ;  form  this  with  2  teaspoons  into  small,  long-shaped 
dumplings ;  drop  them  into  boiling  salted  water ;  cook  6  minutes ; 
remove  with  a  skimmer,  and  put  them  with  3  pints  of  hot  con- 
somme in  a  tureen  and  serve. 

Consomme  au  Riz  a  la  Turque.‚Äî Cover  6  ounces  rice  in 
a  saucepan  with  boiling  water,  cook  5  minutes  ;  then  drain  on  a 
sieve,  rinse  off  with  boiling  water,  spread  the  rice  out  on  a  napkin  ; 
let  it  remain  30  minutes  ;  then  melt  in  a  saucepan  3  ounces  butter ; 
add  the  rice ;  cook  and  stir  5  minutes ;  add  1  pint  white  bouillon, 
Yi  teaspoonful  saffron ;  put  the  rice  into  a  double  boiler,  and  cook 
till  done  ;  the  rice  should  be  dry  and  the  kernels  whole  when  done. 
Shortly  before  serving,  melt  2  ounces  butter ;  let  it  remain  till  light 
brown ;  turn  the  rice  on  to  a  long  dish,  pour  over  the  butter,  mix  it 
lightly  with  2  forks  ;  put  it  in  a  dish,  and  serve  with  consomme. 

Consomme  Gartonre  a  I'ltalienne. ‚Äî Remove  the  outer  green 
leaves  from  a  small  head  of  cabbage,  and  quarter  it ;  then  put  it 
into  a  saucepan  with  boiling  water,  and  cook  15  minutes.  Throw 
away  the  water?  and  fill  up  the  saucepan  with  white  stock ;  lay  6 
small  sausages  on  top  of  the  cabbage ;  cover  the  saucepan  tightly, 
and  boil  half  an  hour.  At  the  same  time  boil  in  another  vessel  6 
carrots  and  6  small  white  onions  in  water,  with  a  little  sugar,  until 
tender ;  have  also  8  or  10  pieces  of  toast  prepared,  without  the  rind ; 
then  lay  a  layer  of  toast  in  a  deep  dish  ;  drain,  and  cut  the  cabbage 
into  small  pieces  and  the  sausages  into  slices,  also  the  carrots ;  place 
first  some  cabbage,  then  some  slices  of  sausages,  carrots,  and  onions 
over  the  layer  of  toast  in  the  dish ;  put  over  this  a  layer  of  grated 
cheese,  and  then  toast,  cabbage,  sausages,  carrots,  onions,  and  cheese 
again  ;  cover  the  whole  with  toast ;  pour  some  of  the  liquor  the 
vegetables  were  boiled  in  over  all ;  sprinkle  some  grated  cheese  over 
the  top  ;  bake  15  to  20  minutes  in  the  oven ;  and  then  serve  with 
clear  bouillon,  or  fine  consomme. 


8  SOUPS,  Etc. 

Consomme  a  I'ltalienne.‚Äî Mix  in  a  small  saucepan  V2  cup- 
ful flour  with  Ya  cupful  milk ;  add  1  ounce  of  butter,  3  tablespoon- 
f  uls  grated  Parmesan  cheese,  a  little  salt  and  pepper  and  nutmeg ; 
stir  this  over  the  fire  until  the  contents  of  saucepan  has  formed  into 
a  smooth  paste ;  remove  it  from  the  fire ;  add  the  yolk  of  1  egg,  1 
whole  egg,  and  Y2  teaspoonf  ul  chopped  parsley ;  turn  a  sheet  of 
writing  paper  in  the  shape  of  a  funnel ;  cut  a  small  piece  from  the 
end  V4  inch  in  diameter  and  fill  the  above  mixture  into  the  funnel ; 
close  the  large  end  the  same  as  you  would  a  paper  with  sugar  or 
tea ;  butter  a  tin  plate  ;  then  with  a  gentle  pressure  force  the  paste 
out  in  the  shape  of  large  peas.  This  is  done  with  a  sudden  Jerk  of 
the  wrist.  As  soon  as  the  paper  is  covered  with  these  fragments  of 
paste,  which  must  not  touch  one  another,  have  3  pints  of  boiling 
consomme  or  stock  over  the  fire ;  hold  the  plate  for  a  few  minutes 
over  the  fire  and  then  let  them  slide  into  the  soup ;  cook  5  minutes, 
and  serve  with  grated  Parmesan  cheese. 

Consomme  Milanaise. ‚Äî Melt  1  tablespoonful  butter  in  a 
saucepan;  add  2  tablespoonfuls  fine-chopped  onions,  Ys  fine- 
chopped  green  pepper,  1  fine-bruised  garlic,  6  fine-chopped  mush- 
rooms (or  some  dried  mushrooms,  previously  soaked  in  cold  water), 
2  tablespoonfuls  fine-chopped  boiled  ham  ;  cook  6  minutes ;  then 
add  1  can  tomatoes  or  8  fresh  tomatoes ;  season  with  1  tablespoonful 
sugar,  1  teaspoonful  salt,  Ys  teaspoonf  ul  pepper ;  cook  30  minutes  ; 
at  the  same  time  put  a  half  package  of  spaghetti  into  boiling 
water,  add  Y2  tablespoonful  salt,  and  boil  till  tender,  about  25  min- 
utes ;  then  drain  it  on  a  sieve ;  cut  the  spaghetti  into  pieces  1  inch 
long  and  return  it  to  saucepan ;  add  2  ounces  butter  in  small  pieces, 
shake  the  saucepan  to  and  fro,  till  both  ingredients  are  well  mixed ; 
then  place  the  spaghetti  in  alternate  layers  in  a  dish  with  the  toma- 
toes, and  4  ounces  grated  Parmesan  cheese  ;  mix  the  whole  well  to- 
gether with  a  fork  and  serve  with  consomme. 

Consomme  an  Risotto  a  I'ltalienne.‚Äî Wash  1  cup  of  rice  ; 
put  it  in  a  saucepan ;  cover  with  boiling  water ;  boil  5  minutes ; 


SOUPS,  Etc.  ^  9 

then  drain,  rinse  with  boiling  water,  spread  the  rice  on  a  nap- 
kin for  a  few  minutes;  melt  2  ounces  of  butter  in  a  saucepan, 
add  2  tablespoonfuls  fine-chopped  white  onion,  cook  6  minutes 
without  browning ;  add  the  rice,  stir  for  5  minutes ;  then  add  1 
pint  white  bouillon ;  place  the  saucepan  into  another  vessel  of 
boiling  water,  cover  and  cook  till  tender,  but  so  that  the  kernels 
stay  whole ;  turn  the  rice  on  to  a  long  dish,  add  2  ounces  butter 
broken  into  small  pieces,  1  teaspoonful  liquid  beef  extract,  and  4 
ounces  grated  Parmesan  cheese ;  mix  it  lightly  with  2  forks  with- 
out breaking  the  rice ;  put  the  rice  into  small  buttered  timbale 
forms;  set  them  for  10  minutes  into  hot  water;  then  turn  them 
out  on  to  a  plate,  and  serve  with  3  pints  of  hot  consomme. 

Consomme  St.  Helaire. ‚Äî Select  a  young  chicken  of  2Y3 
pounds;  clean  and  wash  it  quickly  in  cold  water,  place  it  in  a 
saucepan,  cover  with  cold  water ;  add  Yg  tablespoonf ul  salt ;  as  soon 
as  it  boils  add  2  leeks,  1  onion,  2  blades  of  mace,  and  2  sprigs  of 
parsley ;  cover  and  boil  till  the  chicken  is  tender ;  remove  it,  cut 
the  breast  into  small  pieces,  and  put  the  meat  in  the  tureen ;  strain 
the  broth,  remove  the  fat ;  beat  the  whites  of  2  eggs  to  a  stiff  froth, 
mix  them  with  little  cold  water ;  add  them  to  the  soup,  stir  and 
boil  5  minutes ;  then  strain  through  a  napkin  ;  put  1  cupful  cooked 
green  peas  and  Y2  cupful  cooked  rice  in  the  tureen ;  pour  the  soup 
over  it,  and  serve  with  grated  cheese. 

Consomme  Avith  Potato  Dumplings. ‚Äî Prepare  a  consomme 
"as  directed.  Boil  2  large  potatoes  with  their  skins,  and  when 
cold  peel  and  grate  them ;  stir  Y2  ounce  of  butter  to  a  cream,  add 
the  yolks  of  2  eggs,  a  little  salt,  a  sprinkle  of  nutmeg,  and  Ys 
teaspoonful  of  farina ;  when  this  is  well  mixed  add  the  grated 
potatoes,  and  form  with  2  teaspoons  small  dumplings  the  size  of  a 
pigeon  egg ;  strain  the  consomme,  return  it  to  the  saucepan,  and 
as  soon  as  it  boils  again  put  in  the  dumplings  and  cook  5  minutes. 
Place  in  the  tureen  a  little  fine-chopped  celery  and  some  chopped 
parsley ;  pour  over  this  the  boiling  soup.     The  dumplings  may  be 


10  SOUPS,  Etc. 

boiled  in  salted  water,  then  placed  in  the  tureen,  and  the  soup 
poured  over  them. 

Consomme  a  la  Brunoise. ‚Äî Peel  and  scrape  1  large  carrot 
and  1  white  turnip ;  cut  the  red  part  from  the  carrot  into  small 
dicelike  pieces  the  size  of  peas ;  cut  the  turnip,  some  celery,  1  white 
onion,  and  1  leek  the  same  way ;  place  the  leek  and  onion  with  Yg 
ounce  of  butter  over  the  fire ;  cook  5  minutes ;  place  the  remaining 
vegetables  in  a  saucepan,  cover  with  boiling  water ;  cook  3  minutes, 
drain  in  a  sieve,  and  add  them  to  the  onion  and  leek ;  cover  with 
consomme  and  cook  till  tender ;  then  add  3  pints  consomme,  boil 
slowly  10  minutes,  remove  all  fat,  season  if  necessary  with  salt ;  Yg 
cupful  young  green  peas,  previously  boiled  in  water  with  a  little 
sugar,  may  be  added  if  handy. 

Consomme  with  Macaroni  and  Tomatoes. ‚Äî Remove  the 
skin  from  6  large  fresh  tomatoes,  and  cut  them  into  pieces  ;  melt  1 
ounce  butter  in  saucepan,  add  2  tablespoonfuls  fine-cut  onion,  the 
same  of  fine-cut  ham,  a  bouquet,  and  8  whole  black  peppers;  cook 
and  stir  5  minutes ;  then  add  the  tomatoes,  1  teaspoonful  salt,  1 
teaspoonful  sugar,  Y4  teaspoonful  pepper,  cook  20  minutes;  remove 
from  fire,  mix  the  yolks  of  2  eggs  with  Ys  cup  cream,  add  it  to  the 
tomatoes ;  then  strain  through  a  sieve ;  boil  4  ounces  macaroni  in 
salted  water,  drain  in  a  sieve,  and  cut  into  small  pieces  ;  place  them 
in  a  saucepan,  toss  for  few  minutes  over  the  fire,  add  2  ounces  grated 
Parmesan  cheese  and  the  tomatoes ;  mix  them  carefully  together, 
put  them  in  a  dish,  and  pour  the  consomme  in  a  tureen. 

Consomme  with  CJarhure  aux  Laitues.‚Äî Remove  the  outer 
leaves  from  4  large  round  heads  of  lettuce ;  wash  the  lettuce  in 
cold  water  and  place  in  a  saucepan ;  cover  with  boiling  water, 
add  Y2  tablespoonf  ul  salt,  and  boil  5  minutes ;  drain  on  a  sieve  ; 
cool  them  in  cold  water,  then  press  them  out,  and  return  the  lettuce 
to  saucepan ;  cover  with  consomme ;  add  2  small  onions,  and  cook 
till  tender ;  then  remove  the  lettuce,  lay  it  on  a  napkin,  and  cut  each 
head  into  two,  remove  the  thick  veins ;  cut  8  thin  slices  of  bread, 


SOUPS,  Etc.  H 

remove  the  riud,  and  toast  it  light  brown ;  then  butter  it ;  lay  them 
alternately  with  the  salad  in  a  dish  ;  strain  the  salad  broth  over  it ; 
add  little  more  consomme  ;  sprinkle  4  tablespoonfuls  grated  Par- 
mesan cheese  over  the  top  and  bake  30  minutes  in  medium  hot 
oven  ;  serve  the  salad  in  the  same  dish,  with  3  pints  of  consomme 
in  the  tureen. 

Bouillon  with  Rice. ‚Äî Place  in  a  saucepan  over  the  fire  Yg 
pound  of  rice;  cover  with  cold  water,  and  let  it  boil  for  a  few 
minutes  ;  pour  it  into  a  sieve  and  rinse  off  with  cold  water.  While 
the  rice  is  draining  fry  1  tablespoonful  fine-chopped  onion  in  1 
ounce  butter  without  browning ;  add  this  to  the  rice  and  let  it  re- 
main on  the  stove  for  5  minutes,  shaking  the  saucepan  all  the  time ; 
then  pour  1  quart  of  bouillon  over  the  rice,  and  boil  without  stir- 
ring until  tender.  The  kernels  of  the  rice  must  be  whole  when 
done,  and  great  care  should  be  taken  that  the  rice  does  not  get  too 
dry,  and  if  it  does  some  more  bouillon  should  be  added.  When 
done  take  the  rice  from  the  fire  ;  mix  it  carefully  with  1  ounce  but- 
ter and  2  ounces  of  grated  Parmesan  cheese.  Put  the  rice  in  a  deep 
dish,  cover  with  a  layer  of  grated  cheese,  and  set  for  a  few  minutes 
in  the  oven.  Pour  the  bouillon  in  the  tureen,  and  serve  with  the 
rice.  Another  way  is  to  prepare  the  rice  the  same  way,  omitting  the 
onion  and  cheese.  Shortly  before  serving  mix  1  ounce  butter  and  a 
little  saffron  with  the  rice. 

Royal  Soup.‚Äî In  a  soup  kettle  put  2  pounds  shank  of  beef, 
some  veal  bones,  and,  if  handy,  some  poultry  trimming  ;  cover  with 
cold  water,  add  Vs  tablespoonful  salt;  then  place  the  kettle  over 
the  fire.  While  this  comes  to  a  boil  cut  2  large  onions  into  thick 
slices,  lay  them  on  a  tin  pan,  set  the  pan  in  a  hot  oven  until  the 
onions  are  dark  brown ;  then  add  them  with  1  small  carrot,  1  leek, 
and  a  bouquet  to  the  soup ;  cover  the  kettle  and  boil  slowly  2  hours. 
In  the  meantime  mix  3  well-beaten  eggs  with  3  tablespoonfuls  of 
water  and  3  tablespoonfuls  milk ;  season  with  Y^  teaspoonful  nut- 
meg and  the  same  of  salt ;  pour  the  mixture  into  a  small  buttered 


12  SOUPS,  Etc. 

bowl.  Twenty  minutes  before  serving  place  tbe  bowl  in  a  pan  of 
water,  so  it  reaches  half  way  up  the  bowl ;  set  it  in  the  oven  to  bake 
until  the  custard  is  firm  to  the  touch ;  then  remove.  Strain  the 
soup  through  a  napkin;  remove  the  fat;  add,  if  necessary,  more 
salt ;  pour  the  soup  in  a  tureen  ;  cut  with  a  teaspoon  small  portions 
from  the  custard  ;  drop  them  into  the  soup,  and  serve.  In  case  the 
oven  is  not  hot  enough  to  brown  the  onions,  lay  them  on  top  of  the 
stove  and  brown  them  on  both  sides. 

Julienne  Soup. ‚Äî One  large  carrot,  some  white  celery,  1  white 
turnip,  1  leek,  1  white  onion,  some  Savoy  cabbage,  the  white  part  of 
a  head  of  lettuce,  and,  if  handy,  take  2  leaves  of  sorrel  and  little 
chervil ;  cut  the  carrot  into  slices  1  inch  in  thickness ;  peel  off  the 
red  part,  lay  the  red  strips  over  one  another,  and  cut  them  into  fine 
strips  like  straws ;  peel  and  cut  the  turnips  into  slices,  lay  3  or  4 
slices  over  one  another  and  cut  them  the  same  way ;  cut  the  remain- 
ing vegetables  in  the  same  manner.  Place  the  fine-cut  onion  and 
leek  in  a  saucepan  with  Yg  ounce  butter  over  the  fire,  and  cook  5 
minutes  without  browning ;  place  the  remaining  vegetables  in  a 
saucepan,  cover  with  boiling  water,  boil  5  minutes,  drain  in  a  sieve, 
and  then  add  them  to  the  onion  and  leek.  Shake  to  and  fro  for  a 
few  minutes,  and  add  sufficient  consomme  to  cover;  add  Y2  tea- 
spoonful  sugar,  and  let  it  cook  slowly.  AVhen  done  add  3  pints  con- 
somme, cook  10  minutes  longer ;  season  with  the  necessary  salt,  and 
serve. 

Spring  Soup. ‚Äî Cut  1  leek,  1  head  of  lettuce,  and  1  white 
onion  into  fine  slices;  cover  with  boiling  water,  and  boil  them  2 
minutes ;  then  drain  off  the  water ;  return  the  vegetables  to  the 
saucepan;  add  1  tablespoonful  butter,  cook  5  minutes;  then  add  1 
cupful  cauliflower  roses,  1  cupful  asparagus  tops,  Yg  cupful  fine-cut 
carrots,  Ys  cupful  fine-cut  white  turnips,  Y2  cupful  fine-cut  young 
wax  beans,  1  cupful  fresh  green  peas ;  cover  with  consomme  ;  season 
with  1  teaspoonful  salt  and  Y2  teaspoonful  sugar,  and  boil  till  ten- 
der ;  then  add  3  pints  of  consomme,  a  little  Cayenne  pepper,  and 
season  to  taste  with  salt  and  pepper. 


SOUPS,  Etc.  13 

Soup  a  la  Printaniere. ‚Äî Put  a  small  knuckle  of  veal  and 
some  poultry  giblets  into  a  soup  kettle ;  add  Yg  tablespoonf  ul  salt, 
cover  with  cold  water ;  place  the  kettle  over  the  fire ;  as  soon  as  it 
boils  add  1  onion,  2  leeks,  1  carrot,  1  white  turnip,  and  a  bouquet, 
cover  and  boil  2  hours.  In  the  meantime  place  a  saucepan  with  1 
tablespoonf  ul  butter  over  the  fire ;  add  1  cupful  fine-shredded  cab- 
bage, Yg  cupful  fine-cut  leeks,  the  same  of  celery,  white  turnips, 
white  onions,  and  carrots,  cook  and  stir  5  minutes ;  then  strain  the 
broth ;  add  it  to  the  vegetables,  with  1  tablespoonf  ul  rice,  IY2  cupful 
tomatoes ;  cook  40  minutes ;  add  Y2  pi^^  fine-cut  veal  meat,  and 
serve. 

Asparagus  Soup. ‚Äî Place  a  saucepan  with  1  pint  fine-cut  aspara- 
gus over  the  fire ;  add  Y2  tablespoonf  ul  butter  and  1  cup  white 
broth,  of  veal  or  chicken ;  boil  gently  till  done  -,  add  3  pints  broth, 
boil  2  minutes ;  season  to  taste,  and  serve. 

Spring  Herb  Soup. ‚Äî Place  a  saucepan  with  a  shank  of  veal 
over  the  fire,  cover  with  cold  water  (if  at  hand,  add  some  poultry 
trimmings) ;  as  soon  as  it  boils  add  Ys  tablespoonful  salt,  1  carrot, 
a  little  celery,  2  onions,  1  leek,  and  1  white  turnip ;  cook  slowly  2 
hours ;  then  strain,  and  remove  all  the  fat.  In  the  meantime  wash 
and  cut  fine  a  small  handful  of  sorrel,  1  head  of  lettuce,  small  hand- 
ful of  chervil  and  dandelion,  and  a  little  balm ;  place  them  in  a 
saucepan  with  1  tablespoonful  butter ;  cook  10  minutes,  stirring  all 
the  time;  then  add  lYg  quart  of  the  veal  broth;  cook  slowly  30 
minutes;  and,  if  necessary,  add  more  salt.  Five  minutes  before 
serving  mix  the  yolks  of  2  eggs  with  Ys  cup  cream,  add  them  to  the 
soup  with  Y4  teaspoonful  grated  nutmeg  and  Y2  teaspoonful  sugar. 
(Do  not  allow  the  soup  to  boil  after  the  yolks  have  been  added.) 
Serve  with  duchess  crust  prepared  as  follows :  Cut  the  crust  from  a 
loaf  of  bread  into  strips,  then  cut  into  rounds  with  a  small  cutter 
the  size  of  a  25-cent  piece,  and  dry  them  in  the  oven. 

Soup  a  la  Chesterfield. ‚Äî Eemove  the  meat  from  the  breast 
of  a  well-cleaned  chicken,  chop  it  fine,  and  set  aside ;  cut  the  remain- 


14  SOUPS,  Etc. 

ing  chicken  into  pieces ;  place  it  in  a  soup  kettle,  with  1  pound  of 
beef  and  1  pound  of  veal ;  cover  with  cold  water ;  set  the  kettle 
over  a  moderate  fire ;  as  soon  as  it  commences  to  boil  add  1  onion,  1 
leek,  a  bouquet,  and  Yg  tablespoonf ul  salt ;  cover  and  boil  slowly. 
In  the  meantime  put  into  a  small  saucepan  Yg  pint  sherry  wine,  2 
cloves,  Y4  teaspoonful  of  thyme  or  1  sprig  of  thyme,  1  blade  of 
mace,  cover  tightly,  and  simmer  30  minutes;  place  in  another 
small  saucepan  2  ounces  of  tapioca,  previously  soaked  in  cold  water ; 
cover  with  cold  water;  add  1  teaspoonful  butter,  Y*  teaspoonful 
salt;  set  over  moderate  fire,  and  cook  till  soft.  Soak  2  ounces  of 
bread  in  cold  water,  j)ress  it  out  in  a  towel,  put  it  with  1  ounce 
butter  in  a  small  saucepan,  stir  this  over  the  fire  5  minutes ;  trans- 
fer it  to  a  dish,  and  when  cold  add  the  chopped  chicken  meat  men- 
tioned above ;  season  with  1  even  teaspoonful  salt,  Y2  even  teaspoon- 
ful pepper,  Y4  teaspoonful  nutmeg ;  add  the  yolks  of  2  eggs  and  the 
2  whites  beaten  to  a  stiff  froth.  Divide  this  forcemeat  into  3  parts, 
leave  1  part  white,  add  to  the  second  part  1  tablespoonf  ul  crab  but- 
ter, and  mix  the  third  part  with  2  tablespoonfuls  fine-minced 
truffles;  form  the  3  parts,  each  separately,  into  small  balls,  like 
marbles.  When  the  chicken  is  done,  transfer  it  to  a  hot  dish, 
remove  the  fat  from  the  soup,  season  with  salt,  if  necessary. 
Strain  the  soup ;  return  it  to  kettle  again ;  set  it  over  the  fire ; 
strain  the  wine  essence  through  a  napkin,  add  it  to  the  soup ;  add 
the  boiled  tapioca;  boil  the  whole  slowly  10  minutes;  drop  the 
forcemeat  balls  into  boiling  salted  water,  or  meat  broth,  cook  5 
minutes ;  remove  with  a  skimmer,  lay  them  in  the  tureen,  and  pour 
the  soup  over  it.  If  at  hand,  Y2  pi^t  of  turtle  meat  cuf  into  inch- 
sized  pieces,  dipped  in  beaten  egg,  and  covered  with  bread  crumbs 
fried  in  butter,  and,  after  laying  on  blotting  paper  to  absorb  the 
grease,  may  be  added  to  the  soup  when  ready  to  serve. 

Tegetable  Soup. ‚Äî Place  a  soup  kettle  with  a  shank  of  beef 
weighing  about  2  pounds  over  the  fire ;  cover  with  2  quarts  cold 
water;  add  Y2  tablespoonful  salt;  cover  closely  and  boil  slowly 
from  2  to  3  hours.     In  the  meantime   prepare  the  vegetables;  Ys 


SOUPS,  Etc.  15 

cupful  fine-cut  carrots,  Y2  cupful  fine-cut  white  turnips,  Y2  cupful 
fine-cut  celery,  Yg  cupful  fine-cut  onions,  the  same  of  potatoes  and 
cabbage,  Y2  cupful  canned  tomatoes  (or  1  chopped  tomato) ;  place 
the  vegetables  in  a  saucepan  over  the  fire;  add  sufficient  boiling 
broth  from  the  meat  to  cover  them ;  cover  and  boil  slowly  till  done, 
which  will  take  1  hour.  Shortly  before  serving  transfer  the  meat 
to  a  hot  plate,  strain  the  soup,  remove  all  the  fat,  add  the  vege- 
tables, season  with  Ys  teaspoonful  pepper,  and,  if  necessary,  add 
more  salt.  The  meat  may  be  served  with  horse-radish  or  onion 
sauce. 

Italian  Tegetalble  Soup  (Menestra).‚Äî Cut  fine  2  medium- 
sized  carrots,  1  onion,  1  stalk  of  celery,  a  quarter  of  a  cabbage; 
place  a  saucepan  with  2  ounces  of  butter  over  the  fire,  add  the 
vegetables,  and  cook  10  minutes ;  then  add  1  tablespoonf ul  rice,  2 
quarts  of  stock,  1  teaspoonful  salt,  Ys  teaspoonful  pepper;  boil 
slowly,  well  covered,  1  hour ;  serve  with  grated  cheese. 

Mongole  Soup. ‚Äî Place  a  saucepan  with  Ys  pi^t  of  dried  peas 
over  the  fire ;  cover  with  cold  beef  stock ;  boil  till  tender,  and  then 
press  them  through  a  sieve ;  cut  1  medium-sized,  well-cleaned  carrot 
into  thin  slices,  lay  several  slices  over  one  another,  and  cut  into 
strips  like  straws ;  cut  1  white  onion  the  same  way,  and  add  to  this 
1  fine-cut  leek;  place  the  vegetables  over  the  fire  with  1  table- 
spoonful  butter,  cook  10  minutes ;  then  cover  with  1  pint  of  boiling 
stock  and  cook  till  tender.  Stew  Ys  can  tomatoes  with  Ys  table- 
spoonful  butter,  Ys  teaspoonful  salt,  Yi  teaspoonful  pepper,  and  1 
teaspoonful  sugar  for  20  minutes,  and  then  strain.  As  soon  as 
the  vegetables  are  done  add  the  pea  puree,  the  strained  tomatoes, 
and  1  quart  of  good  stock ;  cook  for  few  minutes ;  season  to  taste 
and  serve. 

Gumbo  Soup. ‚Äî Put  a  shank  of  veal  and  some  poultry  trim- 
mings in  a  soup  kettle  ;  cover  with  cold  water  ;  add  Ys  tablespoon- 
ful  salt;  set  the  kettle  over  moderate  fire;  as  soon  as  it  boils  add  1 
carrot,  1  onion,  1  leek,  and  a  bouquet;   cover  and  boil  slowly  2 


16  SOUPS,  Etc. 

hours ;  when  the  soup  is  done,  strain  it  and  remove  the  fat,  fry  1 
fine-cut  onion  in  1  tablespoonful  butter  light  brown ;  add  2  table- 
spoonfuls  fine-cut  raw  ham,  2  tablespoonfuls  fine-cut  green  pep- 
pers ;  season  with  1  teaspoonful  salt,  Y2  teaspoonf ul  pepper ;  add  1 
tablespoonful  rice,  Y2  pint  sliced  ocher,  1  fine-cut  tomato ;  cover 
with  3  pints  of  soup  stock,  described  above,  and  boil  30  minutes ; 
add  about  1  cupful  fine-cut  frog  meat,  cook  10  minutes.  In 
place  of  frog  meat,  crab,  lobster,  or  shrimp  meat  may  be  taken, 
and  sometimes  chicken  or  veal  is  used. 

Soup  a  PItalieime. ‚Äî Cut  Yg  of  a  young  chicken  into  inch- 
sized  pieces,  place  the  meat  in  a  saucepan  over  the  fire;  add  2 
ounces  butter,  1  fine-cut  carrot,  1  small  green  pepper  without  the 
seeds,  1  onion,  and  Ys  cupful  fine-cut  raw  ham ;  fry  and  stir  for 
10  minutes;  cover  Y4  cupful  rice  with  boiling  water,  let  stand  3 
minutes;  drain  off  the  water  and  again  put  the  rice  into  boiling 
water  for  2  minutes ;  then  drain,  add  it  to  the  soup  with  Ys  cupful 
canned  tomatoes,  and  cover  the  whole  with  2  quarts  of  soup  stock. 
Put  2  ounces  of  macaroni  into  boiling  water,  cook  2  minutes; 
drain,  cut  into  pieces,  and  add  it  to  the  soup  with  Ys  teaspoonful 
pepper  and  1  teaspoonful  salt,  and  cook  slowly  40  minutes.  Before 
sending  to  table  taste,  and  if  necessary  add  more  salt. 

Soup  de  Mouton  a  I'Anglaise.‚Äî Place  a  leg  of  mutton  or 
lamb  in  a  soup  kettle ;  add  1  tablespoonful  salt,  2  onions,  and  pour 
over  enough  boiling  water  to  cover  the  meat ;  let  it  boil  slowly  until 
done  ;  then  take  out  the  meat,  cut  Y2  pound  of  it  into  small,  thin 
pieces,  lay  the  large  piece  of  meat  in  a  dish  with  some  of  the  broth, 
and  keep  it  warm.  At  the  same  time  boil  3  tablespoonfuls  of  bar- 
ley in  a  small  saucepan  in  some  of  the  mutton  broth,  until  tender ; 
also  cut  into  small  pieces  2  carrots,  2  small  white  turnips,  2 
branches  of  soup  celery,  and  2  leeks ;  place  them  for  a  few  minutes 
in  boiling  water ;  drain  in  a  colander ;  return  to  saucepan  agaiu, 
with  a  piece  of  butter  and  a  little  sugar ;  cover  with  some  of  the 
mutton  broth,  and  boil  the  vegetables  tender ;  strain  the  mutton 


SOUPS,   Etc.  17 

broth,  skim  off  the  fat ;  return  to  kettle  again  and  add  the  fine-cut 
meat,  the  barley,  and  vegetables ;  let  boil  for  a  few  minutes,  and 
then  serve.  The  vegetables  may  be  put  in  the  tureen,  and  the  soup 
poured  over  them.     The  mutton  is  served  with  caper  sauce. 

Tomato  Soup. ‚Äî Place  a  saucepan  with  1  tablespoonful  drip- 
pings, poultry  fat,  or  butter,  over  the  fire;  add  2  tablespoonfuls 
fine-cut  carrots,  the  same  of  fine-cut  onions  and  celery  ;  add  also  3 
cloves,  6  whole  peppers,  1  bay  leaf,  and  a  small  sprig  of  thyme ;  stir 
this  for  10  minutes  over  the  fire ;  then  add  1  tablespoonful  flour, 
continue  the  stirring  for  a  few  minutes ;  then  add  1  can  tomatoes, 
stir,  and  let  it  cook  15  minutes ;  season  with  1  even  tablespoonful 
salt,  1  even  teaspoonful  pepper,  and  1  teaspoonful  sugar;  continue 
the  boiling  for  a  few  minutes  ;  strain  through  a  sieve ;  add  1  quart 
of  stock;  season  to  taste,  and  serve  either -with  small  dice  of  bread 
fried  brown  in  butter,  or  add  1  cupful  boiled  spaghetti  cut  into 
small  pieces.  Another  way  is  to  add  1  cupful  boiled  rice  or  2  table- 
spoonfuls  sago,  and  boil  10  minutes  with  the  soup ;  or  soak  2  table- 
spoonfuls  of  tapioca  for  2  hours  in  cold  water,  add  it  to  the  soup, 
and  boil  slowly  20  minutes. 

Tomato  Cream  Soup.‚Äî Place  a  saucepan  with  Vg  cupful  fine- 
chopped  onion  over  the  fire;  add  2  ounces  butter,  cook  5  min- 
utes without  browning;  then  add  1  tablespoonful  flour,  stir  and 
cook  2  minutes ;  add  1  can  of  tomatoes,  1  tablespoonful  sugar,  1  tea- 
spoonful salt,  Yi  teaspoonful  pepper,  cook  10  minutes,  stirring  fre- 
quently ;  add  Vj^  pint  of  white  stock,  or  broth,  cook  10  minutes ; 
then  press  the  soup  through  a  sieve  into  a  clean  saucepan ;  return 
the  soup  to  the  fire,  let  it  get  boiling  hot ;  mix  the  yolks  of  2  eggs 
with  Y2  pint  of  cream,  add  it  to  the  soup,  and  serve  at  once.  Care 
must  be  taken  not  to  add  the  cream  and  yolks  until  just  before 
serving.     Serve  with  bread  croutons. 

Tomato  Soup  without  Meat.‚Äî Melt  1  ounce  butter  in  a 
saucepan ;  add  2  fine-chopped  onions,  stir  and  cook  5  minutes  with- 
out browning ;  add  1  can  of  tomatoes,  1  tablespoonful  sugar,  1  tea- 


18  SOUPS,  Etc. 

spoonful  salt,  Y4  teaspoonful  pepper ;  cook  15  minutes ;  then  press 
the  tomatoes  through  a  sieve  into  a  clean  saucepan ;  at  the  same 
time  boil  1  pint  of  milk,  with  y,  ounce  butter,  mix  1  tablespoonful 
flour  with  1  gill  of  cold  milk ;  add  it  to  the  boiling  milk ;  stir  and 
cook  3  minutes ;  add  the  tomatoes,  and  serve  at  once.  Serve  oyster 
crackers  with  it. 

Tomato  Soup  with  Egg  Balls. ‚Äî Place  a  saucepan  with  1 
tablespoonful  hutter,  1  bay  leaf,  12  whole  peppers,  and  1  fine- 
chopped  onion  over  the  fire,  cook  5  minutes  without  browning; 
add  2  tablespoonfuls  rolled  crackers,  1  can  of  tomatoes,  1  tea- 
spoonful  salt,  1  tablespoonful  sugar,  Yg  even  teaspoonful  pepper, 
cook  15  minutes  ;  add  Yg  pint  of  boiling  water ;  press  the  tomatoes 
through  a  sieve  into  a  clean  saucepan.  Mix  the  yolks  of  2  eggs  with 
Ya  pint  of  cream  ;  add  it  to  the  soup  ;  place  12  egg  balls  (mentioned 
below)  in  the  tureen,  and  pour  the  soup  over.  Grate  2  hard-boiled 
eggs ;  mix  them  with  Ys  ounce  melted  butter  and  the  yolk  of  1 
egg ;  season  with  a  little  salt  and  nutmeg ;  form  it  into  12  small 
balls  like  marbles ;  roll  them  in  flour ;  drop  them  into  boiling 
salted  water,  cook  5  minutes ;  then  remove,  and  lay  them  in  the 
tureen. 

Corn  and  Tomato  Soup  without  Meat.‚Äî Melt  2  ounces 
butter  in  a  saucepan;  add  2  fine-cut  onions,  1  bay  leaf,  and  12 
whole  peppers ;  cook  5  minutes  without  browning ;  add  1  table- 
spoonful flour,  stir  and  cook  2  minutes  ;  add  1  can  of  tomatoes,  1 
tablespoonful  sugar,  1  teaspoonful  salt,  Yi  teaspoonful  white  pepper, 
stir  often,  and  cook  10  minutes ;  add  1  pint  of  boiling  water,  cook 
5  minutes ;  then  press  the  tomatoes  through  a  sieve  into  a  clean 
saucepan ;  cut  the  corn  from  6  young  ears  of  green  corn,  add  it  to 
the  soup,  and  boil  10  minutes  ;  mix  the  yolks  of  2  eggs  with  Ys  cup- 
ful cream  or  2  tablespoonfuls  unsweetened  condensed  milk  ;  add  it 
to  the  soup,  and  serve  at  once. 

Tomato  Corn  Soup. ‚Äî Place  a  saucepan  with  2  ounces  butter 
and  Ys  cupful  fine-chopped  onions  over  the  fire  ;  add  1  bay  leaf,  12 


SOUPS,  Etc.  19 

whole  peppers,  cook  5  minutes  without  browning ;  add  1  table- 
spoonful  flour,  stir  and  cook  2  minutes ;  add  1  can  of  tomatoes,  1 
tablespoonful  sugar,  1  teaspoonful  salt,  Yg  teaspoonful  pepper,  stir 
and  cook  5  minutes ;  then  add  1  quart  of  stock  and  cook  20  min- 
utes ;  strain  the  soup  into  a  clean  saucepan,  return  it  to  the  fire  ; 
when  it  boils  add  1  can  of  sweet  corn,  boil  10  minutes  ;  if  necessary 
add  more  salt ;  5  minutes  before  serving  mix  the  yolk  of  2  eggs 
with  %  cupful  cream,  add  it  to  the  soup,  and  serve  at  once.  The 
yolk  and  cream  may  be  omitted  if  not  handy.  Another  way  is  to 
put  3  tablespoonfuls  cream  into  each  plate,  then  fill  in  the  soup.  If 
fresh  corn  is  used,  cut  the  corn  from  the  cobs  of  6  ears  of  young 
corn ;  and  if  fresh  tomatoes  are  used,  take  8  ripe  tomatoes. 

Corn  Soup. ‚Äî Place  a  soup  kettle  with  a  shank  of  veal  over  the 
fire  ;  cover  with  cold  water ;  add  Yg  teaspoonful  salt,  and  place  the 
kettle  over  the  fire ;  when  it  begins  to  boil  add  2  onions  and  a 
bouquet ;  cut  the  corn  from  6  ears  of  young  green  corn  and  set  it 
aside  ;  add  the  cobs  to  the  soup  and  boil  2  hours ;  then  remove  the 
meat  and  cobs ;  strain  the  broth  into  a  clean  saucepan  ;  return  it  to 
the  fire  ;  add  the  corn,  cook  5  minutes  ;  melt  1  tablespoonful  butter 
in  a  small  saucepan  ;  add  1  tablespoonful  flour  ;  stir  and  cook  a  few 
minutes ;  add  to  the  soup,  continue  to  cook  5  minutes ;  season  to 
taste  with  salt  and  little  white  pepper ;  add  Ys  cupful  cream  or  2 
tablespoonfuls  of  unsweetened  condensed  milk,  and  serve. 

Potato  Soup  without  Meat. ‚Äî Boil  8  large  potatoes  (peeled) 
in  1  quart  of  water  with  1  tablespoonful  salt ;  when  done,  drain  oS 
the  water  and  press  the  potatoes  through  a  potato  presser  ;  place  a 
saucepan  with  2  fine-chopped  onions  and  1  ounce  butter  over  the 
fire ;  cook  5  minutes  without  browning ;  add  1  tablespoonful  flour, 
stir  and  cook  2  minutes  ;  then  add  3  pints  of  boiling  water,  a  bou- 
quet, and  Yg  cupful  fine-cut  celery,  cook  30  minutes ;  then  strain 
into  a  clean  saucepan ;  mix  the  potatoes  with  lYg  cupful  hot  milk 
and  1  ounce  butter ;  then  add  them  to  the  soup,  boil  5  minutes ;  add 
last  1  tablespoonful  fine-chopped  parsley  and  a  little  fine-chopped 


20  SOUPS,  Etc. 

celery,  then  serve.     The  soup  should  not  be  allowed  to  boil  after 
the  parsley  is  added. 

Mingle  Mengle  Soup. ‚Äî Place  a  saucepan  with  2  well-washed 
necks  of  mutton  over  the  fire ;  cover  with  3  quarts  cold  water ;  as 
soon  as  it  boils  add  a  bouquet,  2  fine-cut  onions,  some  celery,  and  1 
leek ;  season  with  Yg  tablespoonful  salt ;  cover  and  boil  2  hours. 
Boil  1  tablespoonful  barley  in  a  small  saucepan  in  water  with  a 
little  butter ;  put  1  quart  well- washed  spinach  into  boiling  water ; 
add  1  teaspoonful  salt,  boil  10  minutes ;  then  drain  in  colander, 
press  out  all  the  water,  chop  it  very  fine.  As  soon  as  the  meat  is 
done  take  it  out,  strain  the  soup  into  a  clean  saucepan,  remove  the 
fat ;  add  the  barley  and  Yg  pint  green  peas ;  then  boil  gently  15 
minutes.  Put  the  spinach  in  a  saucepan,  add  Ys  tablespoonful 
butter,  a  little  nutmeg,  and  2  tablespoonfuls  cream ;  cook  and  stir 
for  few  minutes  ;  then  add  it  to  the  soup  ;  add  last  1  tablespoonful 
fine-chopped  parsley ;  season  to  taste  with  salt  and  pepper. 

Chiffliiade  Soup. ‚Äî Stew  1  quart  young  shelled  peas  in  2  cups 
of  water,  with  Y*  pound  ham,  1  tablespoonful  butter,  2  small  whole 
onions  till  tender ;  then  take  the  meat  and  onions  out,  pour  the 
peas  into  a  colander,  drain,  and  press  them  through  a  sieve  with  a 
spoon ;  return  the  peas  to  the  saucepan  ;  add  2  quarts  stock  and 
boil  slowly  10  minutes.  In  the  meantime  cut  2  heads  of  lettuce 
very  fine ;  stew  them  with  1  tablespoonful  of  butter,  2  tablespoon- 
fuls bouillon,  till  tender ;  add  them  to  the  soup,  and  serve  with 
little  square  pieces  of  toast.     If  necessary  add  more  salt  and  serve. 

Dried-Bean  Soup. ‚Äî Place  in  a  saucepan  over  the  fire  1  pint 
of  well-washed  dried  beans,  covered  with  cold  water ;  add  1  tea- 
spoonful  baking  soda,  boil  15  minutes ;  then  drain  in  colander ; 
rinse  off  with  cold  water ;  place  them  with  2  pounds  beef  or  1 
pound  salt  pork,  some  bones,  and  3  quarts  cold  water,  over  the  fire ; 
add  as  soon  as  this  boils  some  salt  (if  fresh  meat  is  used),  also  some 
celery,  2  onions,  and  3  or  4  well-cleaned  and  finely-cut  carrots ;  boil 
slowly  until  the  beans  are  tender,  which  will  take  from  2  to  3  hours ; 


SOUPS,  Etc.  21 

strain  the  soup  through  a  coarse  sieve,  taking  care  that  the  carrots 
are  pressed  through  with  the  beans,  as  they  give  the  soup  a  hand- 
some color ;  season  to  taste  with  salt ;  let  the  soup  get  boiling  hot 
again,  and  serve.  Some  prefer  not  to  have  the  soup  strained ;  in 
such  cases,  take  only  1  carrot,  some  celery,  and  2  onions.  If  the 
beans  are  soaked  overnight,  the  parboiling  with  baking  soda  is  not 
necessary. 

Lentil  Soup  (Oerman  Linsen). ‚Äî Place  1  pint  well- washed 
lentils  in  a  saucepan  over  the  fire ;  cover  with  cold  water ;  boil  15 
minutes  ;  then  drain  them  in  colander,  rinse  off  with  water  ;  return 
the  lentils  in  a  soup  kettle  to  the  fire ;  add  2  pounds  shank  of  beef, 
cover  with  cold  water  ;  add  ^g  tablespoonful  salt,  and  boil  slowly  for 
lYa  hour,  removing  all  the  scum ;  then  add  some  fine-chopped  celery, 
some  onions,  and  a  soupplate  full  of  fine-cut  potatoes ;  boil  until 
done  and  serve  with  fried  sausages  or  boiled  Frankfurter,  or  boil  the 
parboiled  lentils  until  done ;  press  them  through  a  colander  or 
coarse  sieve ;  have  some  fried  sausages  cut  into  slices,  put  them  in 
the  tureen,  pour  the  soup  over  them,  and  serve. 

Pea  Soup  with  Pigs'  Feet. ‚Äî Soak  Yg  pint  well-washed  dried 
peas  in  cold  water  over  night ;  place  a  soup  kettle  with  2  salted  pigs' 
feet  over  the  fire ;  cover  with  cold  water ;  boil  15  minutes ;  then 
drain  in  colander,  rinse  off  with  cold  water ;  return  the  feet  to  the 
soup  kettle  again,  cover  with  2  quarts  cold  water ;  add  1  fine-cut 
onion,  1  carrot,  and  little  soup  celery  ;  drain  the  peas,  add  them  to 
the  soup ;  cover  the  kettle  and  boil  slowly  till  the  peas  and  feet  are 
done.  Shortly  before  serving  take  out  the  pigs'  feet,  cut  the  meat 
into  small  pieces,  and  set  it  in  a  warm  place  with  little  of  the 
soup ;  strain  the  soup  through  a  coarse  sieve,  season  to  taste ;  add 
the  fine-cut  meat  and  serve.  The  soup  may  be  served  without  being 
strained,  if  liked. 

Split-Pea  Soup. ‚Äî Place  a  soup  kettle  with  a  shank  of  beef, 
weighing  V-j^  pound,  over  the  fire  ;  cover  with  cold  water ;  add  1 
pint  of  well-washed  split  peas  and  Y2  tablespoonful  salt ;  as  soon  as 


22  SOUPS,  Etc. 

it  boils  add  1  cupful  fine-cut  celery,  1  onion,  1  small  carrot,  and  a 
bouquet ;  cover  and  boil  slowly  till  the  meat  is  tender,  about  2  or  3 
hours ;  then  remove  the  meat ;  press  the  soup  through  a  sieve,  re- 
turn it  to  the  saucepan  ;  if  too  thick  add  a  little  boiling  water,  boil 
a  few  minutes ;  season  to  taste  with  salt  and  pepper  and  serve 
with  croutons  or  small  square  pieces  of  toast. 

Kidney  Soup. ‚Äî Cut  1  beef  kidney  into  slices ;  season  with  Yg 
tablespoonful  salt,  Y4  teaspoonful  pepper ;  dust  over  some  flour  ; 
melt  Yg  tablespoonful  butter  and  Y2  tablespoonful  lard  or  fat  in  a 
saucepan  ;  add  the  kidneys  and  Y2  cupful  fine-cut  carrots,  the  same 
of  onions  ;  let  this  cook  15  minutes,  stirring  frequently  ;  then  add 
3  pints  boiling  water  and  a  bouquet;  cover  and  boil  slowly  1 
hour ;  then  strain  the  soup ;  cut  the  kidney  slices  into  fine  strips  ; 
add  them  to  the  soup;  season  to; taste  with  salt  and  pepper,  then 
serve. 

Cril)let  Soup. ‚Äî Pour  boiling  water  over  2  chicken  feet ;  let 
them  lay  1  minute  ;  then  take  them  out,  remove  the  skin  and  wash 
them  well  in  cold  water ;  place  the  feet  with  the  giblets  and  neck 
of  chicken  in  saucepan  ;  add  3  pints  cold  water,  1  teaspoonful  salt ; 
set  the  saucepan  over  moderate  fire  ;  as  soon  as  it  boils  add  1  onion 
and  a  small  bouquet ;  cover  and  boil  slowly  IY3  hour  ;  then  strain 
the  soup  into  a  clean  saucepan ;  return  it  to  the  fire  again,  and 
when  it  boils  sprinkle  in  1  tablespoonful  farina ;  then  melt  Y2  table- 
spoonful butter,  add  Ya  tablespoonful  flour,  stir  until  it  foams ;  then 
add  it  to  the  soup,  boil  10  minutes ;  add  a  little  finely-chopped 
parsley,  and  serve.  (Do  not  allow  the  soup  to  boil  with  the  parsley.) 
In  place  of  farina,  1  tablespoonful  boiled  rice  may  be  added,  or 
sponge  dumplings  may  be  boiled  in  the  soup  ;"also  forcemeat  balls, 
marrow  balls,  farina  balls,  or  mix  1  well-beaten  egg  with  Y4  tea- 
spoonful butter  and  1  tablespoonful  flour;  pour  this  slowly  into 
boiling  soup  and  cook  5  minutes ;  also  fine-cut  nudles  may  be  boiled 
in  it. 

Mutton  Soup. ‚Äî "Wash  a  neck  of  mutton,  put  it  in  a  saucepan 


SOUPS,  Etc.  23 

with  273  quarts  cold  water  ;  as  soon  as  it  boils  add  Yg  cupful  fine-cut 
celery,  2  onions,  1  leek,  and  Yg  tablespoonf  ul  salt ;  cover  and  boil 
until  the  meat  is  tender.  In  the  meantime  place  a  saucepan  with 
3  tablespoonf  uls  barley,  covered  with  cold  water,  over  the  fire  ;  cook 
until  tender.  Shortly  before  serving  take  out  the  meat ;  strain  the 
soup ;  cut  the  meat  into  small  pieces,  return  it  to  the  soup  ;  add  the 
barley ;  season  to  taste  with  salt,  and  serve. 

Teal  Soup. ‚Äî Place  2  pounds  of  veal  and  some  soup  bones  in  a 
saucepan  over  the  fire ;  cover  with  cold  water ;  add  salt,  1  leek,  1 
sliced  onion,  and  a  bouquet,  and  boil  slowly  till  the  veal  is  done ; 
then  take  out  the  meat  and  cut  it  into  pieces  ;  lay  it  in  the  tureen  ; 
boil  the  bones  a  little  while  longer.  In  the  meantime  melt  1  table- 
spoonful  butter  in  a  saucepan,  stir  in  1  tablespoonful  flour,  and 
as  soon  as  the  flour  has  absorbed  all  the  butter  add  it  to  the  soup. 
After  boiling  the  soup  for  20  minutes  longer,  strain,  season  to  taste 
with  salt  and  a  little  nutmeg,  pour  it  in  the  tureen  over  the  meat ; 
add  some  fine-chopped  parsley,  and  serve. 

Soup  with  Marrow  Balls. ‚Äî Procure  2  pounds  of  soup  meat, 
with  a  marrow  bone,  and  if  at  hand  add  a  small  piece  of  liver  and 
kidney ;  remove  the  marrow  from  the  bone ;  place  the  meat  and 
bone  in  a  soup  kettle,  cover  with  cold  water,  set  the  kettle  over  the 
fire  ;  as  soon  as  it  boils  add  2  fine-cut  onions,  1  leek,  1  white  turnip, 
1  small  carrot,  Yg  cupful  fine-cut  celery,  a  bouquet,  and  Ys  table- 
spoonful  salt ;  cover  and  boil  slowly  till  the  meat  is  done.  In  the 
meantime  rub  1  heaping  tablespoonful  of  marrow  to  a  cream,  add 
the  yolk  of  1  egg,  season  with  Y4  teaspoonful  salt,  the  same  of  grated 
nutmeg,  and  1  teaspoonful  fine-chopped  parsley ;  mix  these  in- 
gredients well  together;  then  add  3  tablespoonfuls  grated  bread 
crumbs,  add  last  the  white  of  egg  beaten  to  a  stiff  froth;  form 
this  preparation  with  the  hands  into  12  small  round  balls ;  when 
the  meat  is  done  remove  it ;  strain  the  soup  into  a  clean  saucepan, 
return  it  to  the  fire  again  ;  as  soon  as  it  boils  add  the  dumplings  ; 
boil  6  minutes  ;  taste  the  soup,  and  if  necessary  add  more  salt,  and 


24:  SOUPS,  Etc. 

if  not  strong  enough  add  little  beef  extract.     The  parsley,  if  not 
handy,  may  be  omitted. 

Niidle  Soup. ‚Äî Place  in  a  saucepan  a  shank  of  veal,  or  take  ly? 
pound  shank  of  beef ;  cover  with  cold  water ;  add  1  teaspoonful 
salt ;  set  the  saucepan  over  the  fire,  and  when  it  begins  to  boil  add 
1  fine-cut  onion,  2  slices  of  carrots,  1  leek,  little  soup  celery,  and  a 
bouquet ;  cover  and  boil  2  hours ;  then  strain,  remove  the  fat,  re- 
turn the  soup  in  saucepan  to  fire  again.  Melt  in  a  small  frying  pan 
Ya  tablespoonful  butter,  add  Yg  tablespoonful  flour,  stir  until  the 
butter  has  absorbed  all  the  flour,  add  it  to  the  soup  ;  as  soon  as  the 
soup  boils  again  sprinkle  in  Ys  the  nudles  described  below,  boil  10 
minutes,  and  serve. 

Nudles. ‚Äî Mix  1  egg  with  Ys  teaspoonful  melted  butter  (meas- 
ured after  it  is  melted),  1  small  tablespoonful  water  ;  add  sufficient 
flour  to  make  a  stiff  paste  ;  work  it  5  minutes  on  a  floured  board, 
until  it  does  not  stick  to  the  hands  any  more ;  then  divide  it  into  4 
equal  parts;  roll  each  part  as  thin  as  a  sheet  of  paper  ;  cut  them  in 
strips  IY2  iiich  in  width  ;  dust  the  strips  with  flour ;  lay  4  strips 
over  one  another,  and  cut  them  fine  with  a  sharp  knife  like  straws. 
When  they  are  all  cut  in  this  way  sprinkle  them  over  the  board  and 
let  them  lay  1  hour  ;  then  sprinkle  as  many  nudles  as  wanted  into 
the  boiling  soup.  This  quanity  of  nudles  is  sufficient  for  4  quarts 
of  soup.  If  not  wanted  all  at  one  time  they  may  be  put  away  in 
a  box. 

Einlauf  Soup. ‚Äî Place  a  soup  kettle  over  the  fire  with  a'  small 
shank  of  beef,  about  2  pounds,  or  a  shank  of  veal ;  cover  with  cold 
water;  add  Ys  tablespoonful  salt;  cover  and  let  it  come  to  a  boil ; 
then  add  2  onions,  1  small  carrot,  1  white  turnip,  1  leek,  a  little 
celery,  and  a  bouquet ;  cover  and  boil  slowly  till  the  meat  is  done  ; 
then  strain  the  soup  into  a  clean  saucepan,  return  it  to  the  fire  ; 
melt  Y2  tablespoonful  butter,  add  Y2  tablespoonful  flour,  stir  for  few 
minutes ;  add  it  to  the  soup ;  season  with  a  little  nutmeg,  and  if 
necessary  add  more  salt ;  boil  5  minutes ;  then  beat  up  1  egg  until 


SOUPS,  Etc.  25 

light ;  add  Vs  teaspoonful  melted  butter,  1  tablespoonf ul  flour,  1 
tablespoonful  milk,  a  pinch  of  salt ;  hold  this  over  the  soup,  let  it 
run  slowly  into  the  boiling  soup,  cook  3  minutes  ;  remove  from  fire, 
add  1  tablespoonful  fine-chopped  parsley,  and  serve. 

Turkish  Soup. ‚Äî Melt  2  ounces  butter  in  a  saucepan ;  add  1 
fine-chopped  onion,  Yg  chopped  green  pepper,  2  tablespoonf  uls  fine- 
cut  raw  ham ;  cook  and  stir  6  minutes ;  then  add  the  breast  of  a 
young  chicken  cut  into  small  pieces,  and  1  teaspoonful  curry ;  cook 
10  minutes  ;  then  add  2  quarts  chicken  broth  (mentioned  below),  1 
tablespoonful  rice,  1  cupful  canned  tomatoes,  1  even  teaspoonful 
salt,  a  little  white  pepper  ;  boil  slowly  about  45  minutes,  then  serve. 

Chicken  Broth. ‚Äî Put  the  remaining  chicken  into  a  saucepan ; 
cover  with  cold  water ;  add  1  teaspoonful  salt ;  place  the  saucepan 
over  the  fire ;  as  soon  as  it  begins  to  boil  add  2  leeks,  1  onion,  1 
blade  of  mace,  and  2  sprigs  of  parsley ;  cover  and  boil  till  the 
chicken  is  tender ;  then  strain  through  a  sieve  and  use  as  directed 
above. 

Chicken  Soup. ‚Äî Place  a  well-cleaned  chicken  in  a  soup  kettle 
covered  with  cold  water  over  the  fire ;  as  soon  as  it  boils  add  some 
salt,  1  onion,  a  bouquet,  and  2  leeks ;  cover  the  kettle  up  tightly 
and  let  it  boil  until  the  chicken  is  tender,  which  Avill  take  about  3 
or  4  hours  if  the  chicken  is  old,  otherwise  about  2  hours.  When  the 
chicken  is  done  take  it  out  and  strain  the  soup  ;  put  the  soup  back 
into  the  kettle  again  and  boil  in  it  either  parboiled  rice,  farina,  nudles, 
or  small  dumplings  ;  shortly  before  serving  add  a  little  fine-chopped 
parsley.  The  chicken  may  be  served  with  egg  sauce  or  may  be  used 
for  chicken  salad.  Another  way  is  to  melt  a  tablespoonful  butter  in 
a  saucepan,  add  2  tablespoonf  uls  flour,  and  stir  until  the  flour  has 
absorbed  all  the  butter  ;  then  add  it  to  the  soup.  Place  also  small 
dumplings  in  the  soup  and  let  them  boil  for  6  minutes,  and  add 
shortly  before  serving  a  little  chopped  parsely ;  cut  the  chicken  into 
8  pieces  ;  season  with  salt  and  pepper  ;  dip  in  beaten  egg  and  bread 
crumbs,  and  fry  in  butter  and  lard  to  a  light  brown ;  pour  1  pint 


26  SOUPS,  Etc. 

of  Bechamel  sauce  on  a  hot  dish,  arrange  the  chicken  over  it,  and 
serve.  Or  prepare  a  batter  of  Yo  cup  flour,  2  eggs  (yolks  and  whites 
beaten  separately),  1  cup  of  milk,  and  a  little  salt ;  dip  the  pieces  of 
chicken  into  the  batter,  fry  light  brown  in  boiling  fat  or  ^a  hird  and 
Ya  butter,  and  serve  with  maitre  dliotel  butter. 

Turkey  Soup. ‚Äî This  soup  is  made  the  same  as  chicken  soup 
and  is  only  recommended  when  the  turkey  is  too  old  to  be  roasted. 

Lark  Soup. ‚Äî Cut  the  breast  from  6  roasted  larks ;  chop  the 
bone  into  fine  pieces  and  place  them  with  2  quarts  of  boiling  water 
in  a  soup  kettle  over  the  fire  ;  fry  1  tablespoonful  flour  in  the  butter 
in  which  the  larks  were  roasted,  and  keep  stirring  until  the  flour 
has  absorbed  all  the  butter ;  then  add  some  of  the  bouillon  from 
the  birds  ;  let  it  boil  a  few  minutes  and  then  pour  it  into  the  soup, 
and  let  this  boil  for  1  hour ;  strain  the  soup ;  put  it  on  the  fire 
again  and  boil  small  sponge  dumplings  in  it.  Cut  the  breast  of  the 
birds  into  small  pieces  ;  lay  them  in  the  tureen  and  pour  the  soup 
over  them.  If  liked,  a  small  glass  of  Madeira  wine  may  be  added. 
Pigeons  and  chickens  can  be  prepared  the  same  way. 

Chicken  Soup  a  la  Maryland. ‚Äî Remove  the  breast  from  a 
young  chicken  weighing  2Y3  pounds ;  put  the  remaining  chicken 
with  2Y2  quarts  cold  water  in  a  saucepan  ;  add  Y2  tablespoonful 
salt ;  set  the  saucepan  over  the  fire  ;  as  soon  as  it  boils  add  1  leek, 
2  onions,  and  a  bouquet ;  cook  until  the  chicken  is  done ;  then 
strain  the  broth  through  a  sieve.  In  the  meantime  cut  the  breast 
of  the  chicken  into  small  pieces;  place  it  in  a  saucepan  with  1 
ounce  of  butter,  2  tablespoonfuls  fine-chopped  onion,  the  same  of 
green  pepper,  and  a  little  curry ;  cook  10  minutes ;  then  add  the 
chicken  broth,  boil  20  minutes  ;  add  8  sliced  okras,  Y2  cup  of  fresh 
corn,  Ys  cupful  fresh  Lima  beans  ;  season  with  Ys  teaspoonf ul  pepjier, 
and  if  necessary  add  more  salt ;  cook  40  minutes. 

Chicken  Soup  a  I'ltalienne. ‚Äî Cut  the  meat  from  the  breast 
of  a  young  chicken  into  small  pieces  ;  place  the  remaining  chicken 
in  a  soup  kettle  over  the  fire  ;  cover  with  cold  water  ;  add  Y2  table- 


SOUPS,  Etc.  27 

spoonful  salt ;  as  soon  as  it  boils  add  a  bouquet,  1  carrot,  1  onion, 
and  1  leek ;  boil  until  the  chicken  is  tender  ;  then  strain  the  broth 
through  a  fine  sieve  ;  melt  in  a  saucepan  2  ounces  butter,  add  the 
fine-cut  breast  of  chicken,  Yg  cupful  fine-chopped  onion,  the  same 
of  fine-chopped  green  pepper,  mushrooms,  and  ham ;  cook  10  min- 
utes ;  then  add  1  cupful  tomatoes  and  2  quarts  of  the  chicken 
broth  ;  season  with  Vs  teaspoonf  ul  salt,  the  same  of  pepper  ;  cover 
and  cook  30  minutes  ;  taste,  and  if  necessary  add  more  salt ;  add  1 
cupful  boiled  spaghetti,  cut  into  small  pieces,  and  serve  with  grated 
Parmesan  cheese. 

Pigeon  Soup  for  the  Sick. ‚Äî Old  pigeons  are  best  for  this 
soup.  Clean  and  wash  2  old  pigeons  ;  place  them  in  a  saucepan 
with  3  pints  of  cold  water  and  a  little  salt  over  a  medium  hot  fire  ; 
cover  the  saucepan,  and  let  it  boil  slowly  until  tender,  which  will 
take  from  1  to  2  hours ;  half  an  hour  before  serving  strain  the 
soup ;  return  it  to  saucepan ;  add  1  tablespoonf ul  of  farina,  or  1 
tablespoonf ul  parboiled  rice  ;  let  this  boil  till  done ;  season  to  taste, 
then  serve. 

Pigeon  Soup  with  Dumplings. ‚Äî Clean  3  pigeons  and  place 
them  in  a  saucepan  with  2  quarts  of  water ;  as  soon  as  they  boil 
add  some  salt,  1  onion,  1  leek,  and  a  bouquet ;  cover  the  saucepan, 
and  let  the  pigeons  boil  until  done,  which  will  take  about  1  hour 
if  they  are  young,  and  if  not,  from  2  to  3  hours.  In  the  meantime 
melt  Yg  tablespoonful  butter,  add  Ys  tablespoonful  flour,  stir  for  few 
minutes  over  the  fire  ;  when  the  pigeons  are  done  take  them  out ; 
add  the  flour  to  the  soup,  letting  it  boil  for  a  few  minutes  ;  place  in 
a  tureen  some  small  farina  dumplings,  boiled  in  salted  water ;  add 
also  some  fine-chopped  parsley ;  strain  the  soup,  and  pour  it  over 
the  dumplings  in  the  tureen.  The  pigeons  are  cut  in  half  and 
served  with  egg  sauce  or  melted  butter. 

Soup  with  Chicken-forcemeat  Dumplings.‚Äî Clean   and 

wash  a  medium-size  chicken  ;  cut  the  meat  from  the  breast  and 
chop  it  fine  ;  place  the  remainder  of  the  chicken  in  a  soup  kettle  with 


28  SOUPS,  Etc. 

3  quarts  of  cold  water,  some  salt,  1  onion,  a  few  leeks,  and  a  bouquet ; 
cover  and  boil  slowly  until  done.  In  the  meantime  make  a  panada 
as  follows :  Set  a  small  saucepan  with  Yg  cupful  boiling  water  and 
Y2  tablespoonful  butter  over  the  fire  ;  stir  into  this  3  tablespoonfuls 
flour  and  continue  stirring  until  the  mixture  loosens  itself  from  the 
bottom  of  the  saucepan  and  has  formed  into  a  smooth  paste  ;  then 
take  it  olf ;  stir  Yg  tablespoonful  butter  to  a  cream,  add  the  yolks  of 
3  eggs,  one  at  a  time,  the  boiled  paste,  and  the  fine-chopped  chicken 
meat ;  also  Y2  tablespoonful  farina,  and  season  with  salt  and  pepper ; 
beat  up*  the  white  of  2  eggs  and  stir  lightly  through  the  mixture. 
When  the  chicken  is  done  take  it  out ;  strain  the  soup  through  a 
sieve,  and  remove  the  fat ;  put  the  soup  back  into  the  soup  kettle, 
and  as  soon  as  it  begins  to  boil  form  the  forcemeat  into  small 
dumplings  with  2  teaspoons ;  drop  them  into  the  soup  ;  boil  slowly 
5  minutes  and  then  serve. 

Oxtail  Soup  a  TAllemande. ‚Äî Wash  and  cut  1  oxtail  into 
pieces  ;  place  them  in  saucepan ;  add  2  ounces  butter,  2  tablespoon- 
fuls fine-cut  carrots,  1  fine-cut  parsley  root,  1  fine-cut  onion,  2 
branches  of  soup  celery,  and  2  ounces  fine-cut  raw  ham  ;  stir  this 
over  the  fire  and  cook  15  minutes  ;  add  2Y8  quarts  of  stock,  a  bou- 
quet, and  Ys  teaspoonful  pepper ;  cover  the  saucepan  tightly,  and  boil 
till  the  oxtail  is  done  ;  then  strain  the  soup ;  remove  the  fat ;  cut 
the  meat  from  the  bones,  lay  it  in  the  tureen,  and  set  it  in  a  warm 
place ;  return  the  soup  to  saucepan  again  ;  place  it  over  the  fire. 
Melt  1  tablespoonful  butter  in  a  small  frying  pan,  add  1  large  heap- 
ing tablespoonful  flour ;  stir  until  the  flour  has  obtained  a  light- 
brown  color ;  then  add  it  to  the  soup  ;  add  1  gill  of  Madeira  wine, 
Y2  cupful  fine-chopped  mushrooms,  or  1  tablespoonful  mushroom 
catsup ;  cook  10  minutes ;  season  to  taste  with  salt ;  add  a  little 
sugar  color ;  pour  the  soup  over  the  meat  in  the  tureen  and  serve. 
Another  way  is  to  add  2  tablespoonfuls  boiled  barley. 

Mock  Turtle  Soup. ‚Äî Plunge  a  nice  fresh  calf's  head  into  boil- 
ing water,  let  it  remain  1  minute,  then  remove  and  rub  all  over 


SOUPS,  Etc.  29 

with  a  coarse  towel,  to  remove  all  the  remaining  hair  ;  carefully  cut 
the  flesh,  starting  from  the  center  of  the  head  right  down  to  the 
nostrils,  and  then  with  a  sharp  knife  bone  it  from  the  top  to  the 
base  on  both  sides.  Having  boned  the  head,  put  it  in  a  stewpan 
over  the  fire  ;  cover  with  cold  water,  and  as  soon  as  it  boils  skim  it 
well  and  continue  to  boil  for  10  minutes ;  take  the  calf's  head  out 
and  lay  it  in  cold  water ;  then  butter  the  bottom  of  a  soup  kettle 
and  lay  over  it  4  thin  slices  of  raw  ham,  about  %  of  a  pound 
in  all.  On  this  put  1  veal  knuckle  cut  into  fine  pieces,  and  an  old 
chicken  partly  roasted  ;  add  2  quarts  of  cold  water ;  cover  and  boil 
until  the  broth  is  reduced  to  a  glaze  (which  means  until  the  water 
has  boiled  away,  and  the  bottom  of  the  kettle  is  covered  with  a  rich 
brown  gravy ;  great  care  must  be  taken  not  to  have  the  fire  too  strong, 
so  it  does  not  burn,  otherwise  the  bouillon  will  be  worthless  ;  frequent 
stirring  is  necessary  while  boiling)  ;  then  add  the  calf's  head,  also 
the  tongue ;  fill  the  kettle  with  cold  water,  and  as  soon  as  it  boils 
add  1  carrot,  3  large  onions,  1  sprig  of  soup  celery,  1  small  white 
turnip,  a  large  bouquet,  and  a  little  salt ;  let  this  boil  gently  until 
the  calf's  head  is  done ;  then  take  the  head  out  and  place  it  on  a 
dish  to  cool ;  afterward  to  be  cut  into  square  pieces  and  added  to  the 
soup ;  strain  the  broth  through  a  napkin,  remove  all  the  fat,  and 
return  2  quarts  of  the  broth  to  the  fire  again.  Melt  lYg  ounce  of 
butter  in  a  saucepan,  add  Yg  cupful  flour,  stir  and  fry  till  light 
brown ;  then  add  it  to  the  soup  ;  add  12  fine-cut  canned  mush- 
rooms ;  boil  gently  20  minutes,  removing  all  the  fat  that  arises. 
Then  add  Y2  cupful  sherry,  a  little  Cayenne  pepper,  1  pint  of  the 
calf's-head  meat  cut  into  Ys-inch-sized  pieces,  and  if  necessary  more 
salt,  and  boil  gently  10  minutes.  Put  18  chicken-forcemeat  balls, 
boiled  in  salted  water,  in  the  soup  tureen,  and  pour  the  soup  over  it. 
Put  the  remaining  calf's-head  meat  and  broth  into  glass  jars ; 
cover  tightly,  keep  in  a  cool  place,  and  use  for  soups. 

Soup  a  la  Duchess. ‚Äî Place  a  well-cleaned  chicken  in  a  soup 
kettle ;  cover  with  cold  water ;  as  soon  as  it  boils  add  1  onion,  1 
leek,  some  salt,  and  a  bouquet ;  boil  till  done ;  then  take  out  the 


30  SOUPS,  Etc. 

chicken,  remove  the  skin  and  bones,  cut  the  meat  from  the  breast 
into  fine  pieces,  and  lay  them  in  the  tureen ;  chop  the  bones  up 
fine,  and  put  them  back  into  the  soup  kettle ;  melt  Y4  pound  butter 
in  a  saucepan,  add  4  ounces  of  bread  crumbs,  and  let  them  get  light 
brown  ;  add  them  to  the  soup  ;  boil  for  Y2  an  hour,  then  strain, 
remove  the  fat ;  mix  the  yolks  of  3  eggs  with  Yg  cup  of  cream  or 
milk,  stir  this  into  the  soup,  and  pour  the  same  over  the  meat  in  the 
tureen.  The  remaining  chicken  meat  can  be  used  for  chicken  salad 
or  croquettes. 

Pigeon  Soup  a  la  Crerae. ‚Äî Place  2  well-cleaned  pigeons  in  a 
saucepan  with  3  pints  of  water  over  the  fire ;  as  soon  as  this  boils 
add  a  little  salt,  1  onion,  and  a  small  bouquet ;  cover  the  saucepan 
tightly  and  boil  slowly  till  done  ;  then  take  out  the  pigeons,  cut  off 
the  meat  from  the  breast,  and  lay  the  meat  in  the  tureen  ;  return 
the  soup  to  saucepan ;  fry  Yg  tablespoonf ul  flour  in  Y2  tablespoon- 
ful  butter  few  minutes  ;  add  it  to  the  soup  ;  cook  10  minutes  ;  mix 
the  yolks  of  2  eggs  with  Ys  cup  cream ;  stir  this  into*  the  soup ; 
season  with  salt  and  little  nutmeg  ;  pour  the  soup  over  the  meat  in 
the  tureen,  and  serve. 

Soup  a  la  Reine. ‚Äî Place  a  soup  kettle  with  1  well-cleaned 
chicken  over  the  fire ;  if  handy,  add  a  small  veal  knuckle  and  suf- 
ficient cold  water  to  cover  all ;  as  soon  as  it  boils  add  Y'g  tablespoon- 
ful  salt,  2  leeks,  2  onions,  3  sprigs  of  parsley  tied  together  with  2 
blades  of  mace ;  cover  and  boil  slowly.  When  the  chicken  is 
tender  take  it  out,  remove  the  meat,  chop  up  the  bones  and  return 
them  with  the  skin  to  the  soup  kettle,  and  boil  Y2  hour  longer ; 
then  strain  through  a  sieve  and  a  napkin,  remove  the  fat,  return 
the  soup  to  the  kettle  and  place  it  over  the  fire ;  melt  2  ounces  of 
butter  in  a  small  saucepan,  add  2  tablespoonfuls  flour,  stir  until 
the  flour  has  absorbed  all  the  butter  ;  add  slowly  1  pint  of  the  soup, 
stir  until  smooth  ;  then  add  it  to  the  soup ;  boil  15  minutes ;  mix 
the  yolks  of  2  eggs  with  Ys  pint  cream  ;  season  to  taste  with  salt ; 
draw  the  soup  kettle  to  side  of  stove  ;  add  a  little  of  the  soup  to  the 


SOUPS,  Etc.  31 

cream  and  yolks,  mix  well ;  then  pour  it  into  the  soup.  Place  the 
fine-cut  white  chicken  meat  from  the  breast  in  a  tureen,  pour  the 
soup  over,  and  serve. 

Soup  a  la  Tictoria. ‚Äî Place  a  saucepan  with  3  pints  of  chicken 
or  veal  broth  over  the  fire  ;  fry  1  tablespoonf ul  flour  in  1  of  butter ; 
add  it  to  the  broth  and  boil  10  minutes.  In  the  meantime  boil  Yg 
cup  milk  with  Y2  tablespoonful  butter,  add  3  tablespoonfuls  farina, 
boil  and  stir  till  it  has  formed  into  a  compact  paste  ;  remove  it  from 
the  fire  and  mix  it  with  the  yolk  of  2  eggs,  a  little  salt,  nutmeg,  and 
1  teaspoonful  fine-chopped  parsley,  add  last  the  beaten  whites ;  cut 
off  small  portions  with  a  teaspoon  and  drop  it  in  boiling  salted 
water,  boil  5  minutes ;  remove  them  with  a  skimmer  and  lay  them 
in  the  soup  tureen.  Mix  the  yolks  of  2  eggs  with  Yg  cupful  cream 
or  milk ;  remove  the  soup  to  side  of  stove ;  add  a  little  of  the  soup 
to  the  yolks  and  cream  ;  then  stir  it  into  the  soup ;  season,  if  neces- 
sary, with  salt,  a  little  grated  nutmeg,  and  pour  over  the  dumplings, 
then  serve. 

Cream  Soup  of  Cauliflower. ‚Äî Melt  2  ounces  butter  in  a 
saucepan  ;  add  Y2  cupful  fine-cut  carrot,  1  fine-cut  onion,  a  sprig 
of  thyme,  1  bay  leaf,  6  whole  peppers,  2  tablespoonfuls  fine-cut  raw 
ham,  a  little  celery,  and  3  parsley  roots ;  cook  and  stir  10  minutes 
over  the  fire  without  browning ;  then  add  2  heaping  tablespoonfuls 
flour,  stir  for  few  minutes  ;  add  2  quarts  white  broth,  boil  10  min- 
utes ;  then  add  1  small  head  of  cauliflower  cut  into  pieces,  cook 
until  the  cauliflower  falls  apart;  then  press  the  soup  through  a 
sieve  ;  season  to  taste  with  salt ;  add  Y2  pint  sweet  cream,  and  serve 
with  croutons. 

Soup  a  la  Tertpre. ‚Äî Wash  several  times  in  cold  water  1  quart 
of  spinach ;  press  out  all  the  water  by  inclosing  the  spinach  in  a 
towel,  and  examine  the  spinach  carefully  so  that  it  is  perfectly  clean ; 
then  pound  it  in  a  mortar.  In  the  meantime  melt  1  tablespoonful 
butter  in  a  saucepan ;  add  Y2  tablespoonful  flour  and  stir  this  over 
the  fire  for  a  few  minutes  without  browning ;  add  Ys  piiit  of  chicken 


32  SOUPS,  Etc. 

or  veal  brotli,  a  small  bouquet,  and  boil  10  minutes ;  then  strain  it 
into  another  saucepan,  add  the  spinach ;  season  with  a  little  salt 
and  nutmeg ;  place  the  saucepan  over  a  quick  fire  and  cook  10  min- 
utes, stirring  constantly ;  then  set  it  in  a  warm  place  until  the  soup 
is  ready  to  receive  it,  which  is  made  as  follows :  Place  over  the  fire 
a  soup  kettle  with  2  pounds  of  beef,  a  small  shank  of  veal,  and,  if 
handy,  some  poultry  trimmings ;  cover  with  cold  water,  and  as  soon 
as  it  commences  to  boil  add  a  bouquet,  2  onions,  2  sprigs  of  soup 
celery,  Yg  tablespoonf ul  salt ;  cover  and  boil  slowly  3  hours.  In  the 
meantime  clean  1  large  carrot ;  cut  it  into  thick  slices  lengthwise, 
peel  off  the  red  part,  lay  the  slices  over  one  another,  and  cut  them 
fine  like  straws ;  peel  and  cut  1  white  turnip  into  slices,  lay  4  of 
them  over  one  another  and  cut  them  the  same  way;  place  both 
vegetables  in  a  saucepan,  cover  with  some  of  the  soup  stock ;  add  1 
teaspoonful  butter  and  Yg  teaspoonful  sugar,  and  cook  till  tender ; 
10  minutes  before  serving  strain  the  soup  through  a  napkin ;  put 
lYs  quart  of  this  stock  in  a  saucepan  ;  drain  the  carrots  and  turnips 
and  add  them  to  the  stock.  Add  also  the  spinach,  and,  if  handy,  add 
Ys  cupful  stewed  green  peas,  also  a  little  fine-chopped  chervil,  cook 
5  minutes,  if  necessary  add  more  salt,  and  serve. 

Xayier  Soup. ‚Äî Put  a  well-cleaned  chicken  in  a  large  saucepan  ; 
cover  with  cold  water  and  set  it  over  a  moderate  fire  ;  when  it  begins 
to  boil  remove  the  scum ;  add  2  sliced  onions,  1  leek,  1  blade  of 
mace,  and  3  sprigs  of  parsley,  Ys  tablespoonf  ul  salt ;  cover  tightly 
and  boil  slowly  till  the  chicken  is  tender.  In  the  meantime  stew  1 
cupful  green  peas  in  water  with  a  little  salt ;  when  done  drain  off 
the  water,  press  the  peas  through  a  sieve ;  melt  Y2  tablespoonful 
butter,  add  Ys  tablespoonful  flour,  stir  this  for  few  minutes  over  the 
fire,  add  3  tablespoonfuls  chicken  broth,  and  cook  3  minutes ;  then 
mix  it  with  the  peas ;  add  3  tablespoonfuls  sweet  cream,  the  beaten 
whites  of  3  eggs,  season  with  a  little  salt,  pepper,  and  nutmeg.  Fill 
the  mixtui-e  into  6  small  well-buttered  timbale  forms,  set  them  in  a 
pan  of  hot  water  to  reach  up  half  their  height,  and  place  the  pan 
on  top  of  the  stove  ;  cover  and  cook  till  firm,  which  will  take  about 


SOUPS    Etc.  53 

20  minutes ;  10  minutes  before  serving  strain  the  chicken  broth 
through  a  napkin  laid  in  a  sieve  ;  return  3  pints  of  the  broth  to 
saucepan  again ;  melt  in  a  pan  Yg  tablespoonf  ul  butter,,  add  Yg  table- 
spoonful  flour,  stir  for  few  minutes ;  then  add  it  to  the  broth ;  cook 
5  minutes  longer  and  draw  the  saucepan  to  the  side  of  the  stove ;, 
mix  Ya  cupful  cream  with  the  yolks  of  2  eggs,  add  a  little  of  the 
soup  first  to  the  cream  and  yolks,  and  then  add  the  whole  to  the 
soup,  but  do  not  allow  it  to  boil  again.  Cut  Ys  the  breast  of  chicken, 
into  small  pieces,  lay  it  in  the  tureen ;  unmould  the  timbale  forms, 
add  them  to  the  soup,  and  serve. 

Cream  Soup  a  la  Fran^aise. ‚Äî Place  a  soup  kettle  with  3 
quarts  cold  water,  1  pound  shank  of  beef,  and  a  small  knuckle  of  veal 
over  the  fire  ;  add  Y2  tablespoonful  salt  and  4  ounces  of  pearl  barley ; 
as  soon  as  it  begins  to  boil  add  1  onion,  1  leek,  a  bouquet,  and  1 
small  carrot ;  cover  the  kettle  tightly  and  boil  slowly.  In  the  mean- 
time place  a  well-cleaned  small  chicken  in  a  roasting  pan  ;  season 
with  Y2  tablespoonful  salt,  put  1  tablespoonful  butter  on  the  breast 
of  the  chicken ;  pour  1  cup  of  boiling  water  in  bottom  of  pan,  set  it 
in  a  moderate  oven,  baste  frequently,  and  roast  till  done ;  then 
transfer  the  chicken  to  a  dish,  remove  the  meat  from  the  bones,  cut 
it  into  small  pieces,  and  set  it  covered  with  a  little  soup  stock  in  a 
warm  place ;  put  the  bones  and  gravy  of  chicken  into  the  soup 
kettle,  boil  30  minutes ;  then  strain  the  soup,  remove  all  the  fat, 
and,  if  too  thick,  add  a  little  boiling  water ;  add,  if  necessary,  more 
salt ;  then  add  Ys  cup  cream,  lay  the  chicken  meat  in  the  tureen, 
pour  the  soup  over  it,  and  serve. 

Termicelli  Cream  Soup. ‚Äî Place  a  saucepan  over  the  fire  with 
a  shank  of  veal  weighing  about  2Y3  pounds,  and  cover  with  cold 
water ;  set  the  saucepan  over  a  moderate  fire,  and  as  soon  as  it  boils 
add  2  onions,  1  leek,  a  bouquet,  and  Y2  tablespoonful  of  salt ;  cover, 
and  boil  slowly  till  the  meat  is  done  ;  then  remove  it,  strain  the 
soup,  and  return  it  to  saucepan  again.  Melt  Ys  tablespoonful  butter 
in  a  small  saucepan,  add  Y2  tablespoonful  flour,  and  stir  this  for  a 


34:  SOUPS,  Etc. 

few  minutes  over  the  fire  ;  then  add  it  to  the  soup.  In  the  mean- 
time put  2  ounces  of  vermicelli  in  boiling  water,  cook  5  minutes, 
then  pour  it  in  a  sieve,  rinse  off  with  cold  water,  and  add  it  to  the 
soup ;  cook  10  minutes  longer,  and  draw  the  saucepan  to  side  of 
stove.  Mix  Ys  cupful  cream  with  the  yolks  of  2  eggs,  add  it  grad- 
ually to  the  soup  ;  season  with  little  nutmeg,  and,  if  necessary,  add 
more  salt. 

Macaroni  Cream  Soup. ‚Äî Place  a  saucepan  with  1  quart  of 
boiling  water  over  the  fire  ;  add  1  teaspoonful  salt  and  2  ounces  of 
macaroni ;  cover,  and  cook  10  minutes ;  drain  the  macaroni,  cut  it 
into  pieces  1  inch  long,  and  return  it  to  saucepan  again  ;  cover  with 
veal  or  chicken  broth,  add  Yg  tablespoonful  butter,  cook  slowly  20 
minutes  ;  add  sufficient  broth  to  make  3  pints  in  all ;  mix  the  yolks 
of  2  eggs  with  Yg  cupful  cream ;  draw  the  saucepan  to  the  side  of 
the  stove,  and  add  gradually  the  cream  and  yolks ;  season  with  a 
little  nutmeg,  and,  if  necessary,  add  more  salt. 

Cream  Soup  of  Pearl  Barley. ‚Äî Prepare  2  quarts  of  white 
broth  of  chicken  or  veal ;  wash  Ys  pi^t  of  pearl  barley  in  cold  water, 
place  it  in  a  saucepan  ;  cover  with  the  2  quarts  of  white  broth  ; 
cover  the  saucepan  and  boil  gently  until  the  barley  is  tender,  and 
then  take  Ys  of  the  barley  out  and  place  it  in  a  small  saucepan  ;  rub 
the  remaining  barley  through  a  sieve  ;  mix  the  whole  barley  with 
the  cream  of  barley ;  add  Y2  pi^it  of  boiling  cream,  season  to  taste 
with  salt,  and  serve.  Some  small  force-meat  balls,  previously  boiled 
in  salted  water,  may  be  added  to  this  soup  ;  or  Y2  pi"t  of  boiled  as- 
paragus tops  put  in  the  tureen  and  the  soup  poured  over.  If  the 
soup  should  be  too  thick  add  more  broth. 

Barley  Soup  Plain. ‚Äî Place  a  saucepan  with  2  pounds  of  shin 
of  beef,  or  a  shank  of  veal,  over  the  fire  ;  cover  with  cold  water,  and 
as  soon  as  it  begins  to  boil  remove  the  scum,  add  1  bouquet,  2  fine- 
cut  onions,  1  small  carrot,  Y2  tablespoonful  salt  and  2  tablespoonfuls 
barley  previously  washed  in  cold  water;  cover  the  saucepan,  and 
boil  slowly  from  2  to  3  hours.     Shortly  before  serving  remove  the 


SOUPS,  Etc.  35 

meat,  season  the  soup  to  taste,  and  serve.  The  meat  may  be  served 
with  tomato  or  horse-radish  sauce.  In  place  of  beef  or  veal,  2  fresh 
pigs'  knuckles  may  be  taken. 

Cream  Soup  of  Rice. ‚Äî Wash  Yg  pint  of  rice,  put  it  in  a  sauce- 
pan, cover  with  cold  water,  and  set  it  over  the  fire  to  boil  5  minutes ; 
drain  it  in  a  sieve,  return  to  saucepan  again,  and  add  2  quarts  of 
white  stock,  or,  if  stock  is  not  at  hand,  veal  or  chicken  broth  may 
be  taken ;  cover  closely,  and  boil  gently  until  the  grains  of  rice  are 
soft ;  then  rub  the  whole  through  a  sieve,  return  to  saucepan  again, 
add  more  broth  if  too  thick,  and  a  small  piece  of  butter,  and  boil  10 
minutes  longer ;  add,  5  minutes  before  serving,  Yg  pint  of  boiling 
cream;  add,  if  necessary,  more  salt,  and  serve;  2  tablespoonfuls 
cooked  whole  rice  may  be  added  to  this  soup,  or  IY3  dozen  small 
chicken  forcemeat  balls,  previously  boiled  in  salted  water,  may  be 
put  in  the  tureen  and  the  soup  poured  over  them ;  or  if  1  tablespoon- 
f  ul  crawfish  butter  is  added  it  will  give  the  soup  a  handsome  color. 

Cream  Soup  of  Rice  a  la  Royale. ‚Äî Prepare  a  cream  soup  of 
rice  the  same  as  the  foregoing  recipe.  Put  6  small  egg  custards 
(prepared  as  stated  below)  in  the  tureen  and  pour  the  soup  over  it. 
Egg  Custard :  Mix  Yg  cup  of  cream  with  3  eggs,  add  3  tablespoon- 
fuls chicken  broth,  little  salt,  and  nutmeg ;  fill  this  mixture  into  6 
small  well-buttered  timbale  forms;  20  minutes  before  serving  set 
them  in  a  pan  of  hot  water  so  that  it  reaches  up  to  half  their  height; 
place  them  in  the  oven  or  on  top  of  the  stove,  cover  with  buttered 
paper,  and  cook  till  the  custard  is  firm.  When  ready  to  serve,  un- 
mould  and  place  them  in  the  soup  tureen,  pour  the  soup  over  them, 
and  serve. 

Cream  of  Asparagus. ‚Äî Pare  and  cut  Y2  bunch  of  asparagus 
into  small  pieces ;  place  them  in  a  saucepan  with  2  quarts  of  boiling 
white  stock  and  1  teaspoonful  salt;  cook  1  hour;  then  strain 
through  a  sieve  and  return  the  soup  in  saucepan  to  the  fire ;  melt  in 
a  small  saucepan  1  tablespoonful  butter,  add  1%  heaping  tablespoon- 
f ul  flour,  cook  and  stir  2  minutes,  then  add  it  to  the  soup ;  cook 


36  SOUPS,  Etc. 

slowly  10  minutes ;  season  to  taste  with  salt ;  add  last  the  yolk  of  2 
eggs  mixed  with  Y2  cup  cream,  and  serve  with  duchess  crust,  pre- 
pared as  follows :  Cut  the  rind  from  a  loaf  of  bread  into  long,  wide 
strips,  cut  the  strips  into  rounds  with  a  cake  cutter,  the  size  of  a  50- 
cent  piece ;  dry  them  in  the  oven,  and  serve  with  the  soup. 

Cream  Soup  a  la  Printaiiier. ‚Äî Procure  a  small  shank  of  veal, 
costing  about  15  cents,  Y2  pound  raw  lean  ham,  10  young  carrots,  4 
young  white  turnips,  1  onion,  1  quart  of  fresh  green  peas,  and  4 
sprigs  of  parsley ;  place  the  meat  in  a  soup  kettle,  add  the  ham,  and 
cover  with  cold  water ;  add  1  teaspoonf ul  salt,  set  it  over  the  fire  ; 
as  soon  as  it  boils  add  1  onion  and  a  bouquet,  and  boil  2  hours ; 
clean,  wash,  and  cut  the  carrots  and  turnips  into  slices,  then  lay 
several  pieces  over  one  another  and  cut  them  into  fine  strips ;  place 
them  in  a  small  saucepan,  cover  with  boiling  water,  add  Yg  tea- 
spoonful  sugar,  a  little  butter,  and  cook  until  tender ;  shell  the  peas, 
and  put  the  shells  of  the  peas  in  the  soup  kettle  with  the  meat ; 
place  the  peas  in  a  saucepan,  cover  with  boiling  water;  add  Ys 
teaspoonful  salt,  and  cook  till  soft;  then  drain,  and  press  the  peas 
through  a  sieve ;  melt  1  tablespoonful  butter  in  a  small  sauce- 
pan, add  1  tablespoonful  flour,  cook  and  stir  3  minutes ;  add  Y2  pint 
cream,  season  with  salt  and  a  little  nutmeg,  and  cook  2  minutes ; 
add  the  peas  and  cook  2  minutes  longer ;  strain  the  soup,  add  3 
pints  of  the  stock  to  the  peas,  and  let  it  boil  up.  Taste  it,  and  if 
not  salt  enough  add  more  salt.  Drain  the  carrots  and  turnips  in  a 
sieve;  put  them  in  the  soup,  add  1  tablespoonful  fine-chopped 
parsley,  and  serve. 

Cream  Soup  of  Celery. ‚Äî Place  a  saucepan  with  1  pint  of  fine- 
cut  table  celery  over  the  fire,  cover  with  3  pints  white  broth,  and  boil 
till  tender  ;  then  strain  through  a  sieve,  return  the  soup  to  saucepan 
again,  and  season  to  taste  with  white  pepper  and  salt ;  fry  1  table- 
spoonful flour  in  1  tablespoonful  butter,  add  it  to  the  soup,  and 
cook  5  minutes ;  then  add  Y2  cupful  cream  and  little  grated  nut- 
meg; serve  with  small  squares  of  bread  fried  brown  in  butter.     The 


SOUPS,  Etc.  37 

white  stock,  if  not  at  hand,  may  be  prepared  of  a  knuckle  of  veal 
placed  over  the  fire  in  a  saucepan  with  2  quarts  of  cold  water,  1 
onion,  a  bouquet,  and  salt ;  boil  2  hours ;  then  strain,  and  use  as 
mentioned  above. 

Cream  Soup  of  Carrot. ‚Äî Chop  fine  4  medium-sized  carrots; 
place  them  in  a  saucepan  with  1  tablespoonful  butter ;  add  1  fine- 
chopped  white  onion ;  cook  10  minutes  without  browning ;  add  2 
quarts  of  white  broth  of  veal  or  chicken,  2  tablespoonfuls  rice,  Yg 
tablespoonful  salt,  and  Yg  teaspoonful  pepper ;  boil  slowly  1  hour ; 
then  press  it  through  a  sieve  into  a  saucepan,  and  add  Yg  cupful 
boiling  cream ;  season,  if  necessary,  with  salt,  and  serve  with  croutons. 

Potato  Cream  Soup. ‚Äî Peel  and  wash  8  medium-sized  pota- 
toes ;  place  them  in  a  saucepan  over  the  fire ;  cover  with  1  quart 
water ;  add  1  tablespoonful  salt,  and  boil  till  tender ;  then  drain  ofE 
water,  and  press  the  potatoes  either  through  a  potato-masher  or 
colander  into  a  saucepan ;  add  Ys  tablespoonful  butter,  1  cupful 
boiling  milk,  and  1  quart  bouillon ;  cook  10  minutes,  and  season  to 
taste  with  salt,  pepper,  and  a  little  nutmeg ;  remove  from  the  fire, 
add  1  tablespoonful  fine-chopped  parsley,  and  serve  with  croutons. 

Bouillon"  for  Above  Soup. ‚Äî Place  a  saucepan  with  1  fine-cut 
onion  and  1  tablespoonful  drippings  over  the  fire ;  add  1  fine-cut 
carrot  and  Ya  cupful  fine-cut  celery ;  stir  and  cook  10  minutes;  add 
3  pints  boiling  water  and  some  bones  of  roasted  meat,  or  poultry, 
whichever  may  be  on  hand.  Any  remnants  can  be  used  for  this ; 
also  the  gravy  of  left-over  chicken  fricassee.  Boil  slowly  1  hour ; 
then  strain,  and  use  as  directed  above. 

Cream  Soup  of  Turnips. ‚Äî Place  a  saucepan  with  1  table- 
spoonful butter  and  1  pint  fine-cut  white  turnips  over  the  fire; 
cook  10  minutes ;  add  3  pints  of  white  broth  and  a  bouquet ;  cook 
40  minutes ;  then  press  through  a  sieve,  return  the  soup  to  sauce- 
pan, and  place  it  over  the  fire.  Melt  1  tablespoonful  butter  in  a 
small  saucepan,  add  1  tablespoonful  flour,  stir  and  cook  3  minutes, 
then  add  it  to  the  soup  ;  add  Y4  teaspoonful  white  pepper,  and  salt 


38  SOUPS,  Etc. 

if  necessary ;  cook  10  minutes.  Mix  the  yolks  of  2  eggs  witli  Yg 
cup  cream  or  milk,  and  add  it  to  the  soup ;  do  not  boil  again,  but 
serve  at  once. 

Cream  Soup  of  Dried  Peas. ‚Äî Put  a  saucepan  with  1  pound 
shank  of  beef  over  the  fire,  and  cover  with  cold  water  ;  add  2  ounces 
lean  salt  pork,  and  1  pint  dried  green  peas  previously  soaked  in  cold 
water  ;  as  soon  as  it  boils  add  Yg  cupful  fine-cut  celery,  the  same  of 
carrots  and  onions,  and  a  bouquet ;  cover,  and  boil  slowly  till  the 
peas  are  tender ;  then  strain  through  a  sieve  into  a  clean  saucepan ; 
melt  Y2  tablespoonful  butter,  add  Y2  tablespoonful  flour,  stir  for  few 
minutes,  add  it  to  the  soup,  and  cook  5  minutes ;  add  Y2  cupful 
cream,  or  1  tablespoonful  unsweetened  condensed  milk,  season  to 
taste  with  salt,  and  serve  with  small  pieces  of  bread  fried  in  butter. 

Cream  Soup  of  Dried  Beans. ‚Äî Use  the  above  recipe  for 
Dried  Peas. 

Cream  Soup  of  Lentils. ‚Äî Is  prepared  in  the  same  manner  as 
Cream  Soup  of  Dried  Peas. 

Cream  Soup  of  Fresh  Lima  Beans. ‚Äî Melt  1  ounce  butter  in 
a  saucepan  ;  add  2  fine-cut  onions,  1  leek,  some  celery,  2  tablespoon- 
f uls  fine-cut  ham,  and  1  fine-cut  carrot ;  cook  and  stir  10  minutes ; 
then  add  2  quarts  white  broth,  a  bouquet,  and  1  pint  of  fresh-shelled 
Lima  beans ;  season  with  Ys  tablespoonful  salt ;  cover,  and  cook  1 
hour ;  then  rub  the  soup  through  a  sieve  into  a  clean  saucepan ; 
return  the  soup  to  the  fire;  melt  1  tablespoonful  butter,  add  1 
heaping  tablespoonful  flour,  stir  for  few  minutes ;  then  add  it  to 
the  soup,  and  cook  10  minutes ;  add  Y4  cupful  cream,  and  serve 
with  croutons. 

Cream  Soup  of  Sorrel. ‚Äî Put  2  ounces  of  butter  in  a  sauce- 
pan; add  1  quart  of  well-washed  sorrel;  cook  10  minutes;  then 
mash  it  fine ;  place  it,  with  3  pints  of  white  broth,  in  a  saucepan 
over  the  fire  and  cook  10  minutes ;  melt  1  tablespoonful  butter, 
add  1  tablespoonful  flour,  stir  for  few  minutes ;  add  it  to  the  soup ; 
season  with  1  teaspoonful  salt,  Y4  teaspoonful  pepper,  cook  10  min- 


SOUPS,  Etc.  39 

utes ;  mix  the  yolks  of  2  eggs  with  Yg  cup  of  cream,  add  it  to  the 
soup,  and  serve  with  poached  eggs,  allowing  1  egg  for  each  person. 

Lettuce  Cream  Soup. ‚Äî Choose  2  large  heads  of  lettuce,  re- 
move the  outer  leaves,  wash  the  lettuce  thoroughly,  and  cut  up 
fine ;  place  with  1  tablespoonful  butter  in  a  saucepan,  and  put  over 
the  fire ;  cook  10  minutes,  stirring  constantly ;  add  3  pints  of 
chicken  broth,  and  cook  slowly  1  hour;  season  to  taste  with  salt 
and  pepper ;  then  press  through  a  sieve  into  a  clean  saucepan,  and 
return  the  soup  to  the  fire ;  melt  Yg  tablespoonful  butter  in  a  sauce- 
pan, add  Ys  tablespoonful  flour,  stir  for  few  minutes,  add  it  to  the 
soup,  and  cook  10  minutes;  add  1  cupful  cream  and  little  nutmeg; 
serve  with  small  squares  of  toast. 

Potage  a  I'Imperiale. ‚Äî Remove  the  breast  of  a  young 
chicken ;  cut  the  meat  into  slices,  and  pound  it  fine  in  a  mortar 
with  the  whites  of  2  eggs ;  season  with  Y4  teaspoonf ul  white  pepper, 
the  same  of  nutmeg,  1  teaspoonful  salt,  add  2  tablespoonfuls  whipped 
cream,  mix  all  well  together ;  set  1  hour  on  ice ;  then  put  a  tea- 
spoonful  of  this  forcemeat  on  a  buttered  plate,  set  it  for  few  minutes 
in  the  oven ;  if  the  forcemeat  is  too  firm,  add  a  little  more  cream ; 
15  minutes  before  serving  spread  the  forcemeat,  1  inch  in  thickness, 
in  a  buttered  pan,  place  the  pan  in  a  hot  oven,  cover  with  buttered 
paper,  and  bake  5  minutes ;  as  soon  as  the  forcemeat  is  firm  to  the 
touch  remove  it  from  the  oven ;  cut  it  into  small  round  pieces,  lay 
them  in  the  tureen ;  add  Ys  cupful  fine-cut  boiled  carrots,  the  same 
of  fine-cut  boiled  white  turnips,  Y2  cupful  young  green  peas  pre- 
viously boiled  in  water,  with  a  little  sugar ;  pour  over  3  pints  of 
boiling  chicken  broth,  and  serve. 

Potage  a  la  Mulligatawney. ‚Äî Fry  in  1  tablespoonful  butter, 
1  tablespoonful  fine-cut  or  chopped  onion,  the  same  of  raw  smoked 
ham,  and  green  pepper ;  cook  5  minutes ;  then  add  the  fine-cut 
breast  of  a  young  chicken,  2  tablespoonfuls  fine-cut  carrot,  the  same 
of  white  turnip  and  leeks ;  cook  and  stir  5  minutes ;  season  with  1 
teaspoonful  salt,  Ys  teaspoonful  pepper,  1  even  teaspoonful  curry ; 


40  SOUPS,  Etc. 

cover  with  2  quarts  chicken  broth,  prepared  from  the  remaining 
chicken ;  add  Yg  cupful  fine-cut  egg-plant,  Yg  cupful  fine-cut  green 
apple,  Y4  cup  well-washed  rice;  boil  40  minutes;  add ,  if  necessary, 
more  salt,  and  serve.  In  case  the  soup  should  be  too  thick,  add 
more  broth. 

Potage  a  la  Creme  de  Riz  a  TAllemande. ‚Äî Wash  1  cup  of 
rice ;  place  it  in  a  saucepan  over  the  fire,  cover  with  cold  water,  boil 
5  minutes  ;  drain  in  a  sieve,  rinse  off  with  cold  water ;  put  the  rice 
in  a  saucepan,  cover  with  white  bouillon,  and  boil  till  soft ;  then 
press  it  through  a  sieve  into  a  clean  saucepan ;  add  2  quarts  white 
bouillon,  let  it  boil  slowly  1  hour,  removing  all  the  scum  that  rises ; 
mix  the  yolks  of  2  eggs  with  Y2  cup  cream,  add  them  to  the  soup ; 
season  with  a  little  nutmeg,  and,  if  necessary,  add  more  salt ;  put  Y2 
pint  cooked  green  peas' with  Y2  pint  of  boiled  asparagus  tops  in  the 
tureen ;  pour  the  soup  over,  and  serve. 

Potage  a  la  Creme  d'Orge. ‚Äî Place  4  ounces  well-washed 
pearl  barley  in  a  saucepan ;  add  2  quarts  white  bouillon ;  cover,  and 
boil  slowly  3  hours  (if  it  should  get  too  thick,  add  more  bouillon) ; 
when  done  press  it  through  a  sieve ;  add  3  pints  of  the  same  bouil- 
lon ;  let  it  boil  slowly  30  minutes,  removing  all  the  scum ;  mix  1 
cup  of  cream  with  the  yolk  of  2  eggs ;  add  them  to  the  soup ;  if 
necessary,  add  more  salt,  and  serve.  Do  not  allow  the  soup  to  boil 
after  the  yolks  have  been  added. 

Potage  a  la  Crecy. ‚Äî Cut  off  the  red  part  from  6  large  carrots ; 
add  1  white  onion  and  a  few  stalks  of  celery ;  cut  the  vegetables 
into  fine  pieces,  and  place  them  with  boiling  water  in  a  saucepan 
over  the  fire ;  boil  10  minutes  ;  drain  the  vegetables  in  colander, 
and  return  them  to  saucepan  with  1  tablespoonful  butter  and  1  tea*- 
spoonful  sugar ;  place  on  a  slow  fire  and  cook  20  minutes,  without 
burning  or  acquiring  any  color ;  then  add  4  pints  of  white  stock, 
described  below ;  cover,  and  boil  1  hour ;  rub  the  soup  through  a 
sieve ;  if  too  thick,  add  more  broth,  and  return  it  to  saucepan  ;  place 
again  over  the  fire ;  fry  Ys  tablespoonful  flour  in  Ys  tablespoonful 


SOUPS,  Etc.  41 

butter ;  add  it  to  the  soup ;  boil  for  few  minutes  longer ;  season 
with  Y4  teaspoonful  white  pepper  and,  if  necessary,  some  salt ;  add 
Y2  cup  cream  or  IY2  tablespoonful  unsweetened  condensed  milk, 
and  serve. 

White  Stock  foe  Above  Potage. ‚Äî Place  a  knuckle  of  veal, 
costing  about  20  cents,  in  a  saucepan ;  cover  with  cold  water ;  set 
the  saucepan  over  the  fire ;  add,  if  handy,  some  poultry  trimmings ; 
as  soon  as  it  boils  add  1  leek,  1  large  onion  and  2  strips  of  parsley 
tied  together  with  a  bay  leaf,  2  whole  cloves,  6  whole  peppers,  a 
small  sprig  of  thyme,  and  Y2  tablespoonful  salt;  cover  and  boil 
slowly  till  the  meat  falls  from  the  bones ;  then  strain  through  a 
napkin ;  remove  all  the  fat.     Use  as  directed  above. 

Potage  a  la  Puree  de  Poireau. ‚Äî Clean  and  wash  4  large 
leeks ;  cut  them  in  fine  slices ;  melt  2  ounces  butter  in  a  saucepan ; 
add  the  leeks  and  Y2  teaspoonful  sugar ;  cook  and  stir  10  minutes ; 
add  1  pint  white  bouillon ;  cook  until  tender ;  melt  1  tablespoonful 
butter ;  add  1  tablespoonful  flour ;  stir  for  few  minutes ;  add  1  pint 
white  bouillon,  Y2  cup  of  mushroom  liquor,  and  a  bouquet ;  boil  10 
minutes ;  remove  the  bouquet ;  add  the  leeks,  and  cook  15  minutes ; 
then  add  3  pints  bouillon ;  cook  for  few  minutes ;  press  through  a 
sieve  ;  season  to  taste,  and  serve  with  boiled  rice. 

Potage  a  la  Puree  de  Pomme  de  Terre.‚Äî Pare,  wash,  and 
boil  in  salted  water  6  large  potatoes ;  when  done  drain  off  the 
water ;  press  the  potatoes  through  a  potato  masher ;  mix  them  with 
2  ounces  of  butter ;  add  3  pints  white  bouillon,  and  boil  3  minutes  ; 
then  add  1  cup  cream  mixed  with  the  yolk  of  2  eggs ;  season  with 
the  necessary  salt  and  little  nutmeg. 

Potage  a  la  Puree  des  Lentilles  a  la  Conde. ‚Äî Soak  Y2  pint 
of  lentils  for  several  hours  in  cold  water  ;  then  place  them  covered 
with  cold  water  in  a  saucepan  over  the  fire  ;  add  as  soon  as  it  boils 
1  onion,  little  celery,  and  carrot ;  boil  until  tender ;  then  press 
through  a  sieve.  Remove  the  meat  from  2  roasted  partridges  or  1 
prairie-hen ;   grind   the   meat  as  fine  as  possible  through  a  meat 


42  SOUPS,  Etc. 

grinder,  or  pound  it  fine  in  a  wooden  bowl ;  put  it  with  the  lentil 
puree  in  a  saucepan,  adding  1  pint  soup  stock,  and  rub  the  whole 
through  a  sieve.  In  the  meantime  place  a  saucepan  with  1  ounce 
butter,  1  fine-chopped  onion,  and  Yg  cupful  fine-chopped  ham  over 
the  fire ;  add  Yg  cupful  chopped  carrot,  little  celery,  and  a  bouquet ; 
cook  until  the  onions  begin  to  brown  ;  chop  the  bones  of  the  birds 
fine,  lay  them  with  the  remnants  on  top  of  the  vegetables,  add  1 
pint  soup  stock  ;  cook  until  the  liquid  has  boiled  away,  and  a  brown 
gravy  remains  on  the  bottom  of  saucepan ;  cover  with  soup  stock, 
add  Ys  cup  of  sherry  wine,  and  boil  1  hour ;  then  strain,  add  the 
broth  to  the  above  preparation,  also  a  little  nutmeg  ;  let  the  soup 
get  boiling  hot,  and  serve. 

Potage  a  la  Puree  Marrons  a  la  Dauphine. ‚Äî Remove  the 
shells  from  1  pound  of  large  chestnuts ;  place  the  chestnuts  in  a 
saucepan  with  boiling  water  and  boil  12  minutes  ;  remove  the  brown 
skin,  return  the  chestnuts  in  a  saucepan  to  the  fire,  cover  with  con- 
somme, and  boil  till  tender  ;  then  press  them  through  a  sieve  into  a 
clean  saucepan  ;  add  3  pints  consomme,  Ys  teaspoonful  sugar,  little 
nutm.eg,  and  cook  for  few  minutes.  Boil  a  handful  of  nudles  in 
boiling  salted  water,  drain  and  put  them  in  the  tureen,  pour  the 
soup  over,  and  serve. 

Potage  a  la  Puree  de  Haricots. ‚Äî Soak  for  several  hours  in 
cold  water  1  pint  of  dried  white  beans ;  then  drain  off  the  water ; 
place  them  with  fresh  cold  water  over  the  fire  ;  as  soon  as  they  boil 
add  Ys  cupful  fine-cut  celery,  2  onions,  and  the  red  part  of  2  large 
carrots  (without  the  core)  ;  season  with  1  teaspoonful  salt,  and  boil 
till  tender ;  then  press  them  through  a  potato  masher,  or  a  sieve  ; 
return  the  puree  to  the  saucepan,  add  2  quarts  white  bouillon,  and 
boil  slowly  40  minutes ;  season  to  taste  with  salt ;  melt  Ys  table- 
spoonful  butter,  add  Y2  tablespoonful  flour,  stir  few  minutes,  and 
add  it  to  the  soup ;  cook  five  minutes ;  add  1  cupful  sweet  cream, 
and  serve  with  bread  croutons. 

Potage  h  la  Puree  de  Carottes  a  la  Wiuton.‚Äî Blanch  3 


r 


SOUPS,  Etc.  43 

calf  tails  ;  cool  them  in  cold  water ;  cut  into  pieces  and  place  in  a 
saucepan,  with  a  shank  of  veal,  a  small  piece  of  shank  of  beef,  and, 
if  handy,  some  poultry  trimmings ;  cover  with  cold  water ;  add  Yg 
tablespoonf  ul  salt,  V3  pound  of  raw  lean  ham  ;  set  the  saucepan  over 
the  fire  ;  as  soon  as  it  boils  add  a  large  bouquet,  2  onions,  1  leek,  1 
white  turnip,  little  celery,  and  Vg  cupful  sherry  wine;  cook  iVg 
hour.  In  the  meantime  clean  6  large  carrots,  pare  off  the  red  part 
and  throw  the  core  away,  lay  some  of  the  parings  over  one  another, 
and  cut  them  into  julienne,  Vs  pint  in  all ;  place  with  boiling  water 
and  Y2  teaspoonful  sugar  over  the  fire,  and  boil  till  done.  Cut  the 
remaining  parings  into  small  pieces,  put  them  in  a  saucepan  with  1 
tablespoonful  butter,  1  teaspoonful  sugar,  and  cook  6  minutes ;  then 
cover  with  bouillon  from  the  saucepan,  boil  until  tender ;  press 
them  through  a  sieve,  or  potato  masher  ;  return  the  pur6e  to  sauce- 
pan, add  1  quart  of  the  bouillon  from  saucepan,  and  cook  slowly  40 
minutes ;  as  soon  as  the  calf  tails  are  done,  take  them  out,  cut  off 
all  the  meat  and  put  it  in  the  tureen  with  the  stewed  carrots  ;  strain 
the  remaining  bouillon,  add  it  to  the  carrot  puree ;  add  a  small 
glass  of  sherry,  little  Cayenne  pepper,  and,  if  handy,  1  tablespoonful 
fine-chopped  chervil,  the  same  of  sorrel ;  add  if  necessary  more  salt, 
boil  5  minutes,  then  pour  it  in  the  tureen  over  the  meat  and  carrots. 

Potage  a  la  Puree  de  Celeri  a  la  Cr erne. ‚ÄîPlace  1  pint  of 
fine-cut  white  celery  in  a  saucepan  over  the  fire  ;  cover  with  boiling 
water  and  cook  5  minutes ;  drain  on  a  sieve ;  return  the  celery  to 
saucepan,  add  1  ounce  butter,  Yg  teaspoonful  sugar,  Y2  teaspoonful 
salt,  cook  and  stir  6  minutes ;  then  cover  with  white  bouillon  and 
cook  until  tender.  Melt  Y2  tablespoonful  butter,  add  1  tablespoon- 
ful flour,  stir  for  few  minutes ;  add  1  cup  of  white  bouillon,  1  cup 
of  cream,  a  small  bouquet,  Y2  teaspoonful  of  salt,  Yi  teaspoonful 
nutmeg,  and  cook  10  minutes  ;  remove  the  bouquet,  add  the  celery, 
boil  10  minutes  without  covering ;  then  press  through  a  sieve ;  re- 
turn the  puree  to  saucepan,  add  3  pints  white  bouillon,  and  boil  few 
minutes ;  if  necessary  add  more  salt ;  add  Y*  cup  cream,  and  serve 

with  croutons. 
4 


44  SOUPS,  Etc. 

Potage  a  la  Puree  d'Oignons  a  la  Creme.‚Äî Clean  and  cut 

4  large  white  onions  into  quarters ;  place  them  with  boiling  water 
in  a  saucepan  over  the  fire  and  cook  3  minutes ;  drain  them  on  a 
sieve  ;  return  the  onions  to  a  saucepan  with  1  ounce  butter,  Yi  tea- 
spoonful  nutmeg,  Yg  teaspoonful  sugar,  Y2  teaspoonful  salt ;  cover 
and  cook  8  minutes.  Melt  Y2  ounce  butter  in  a  saucepan,  add  1 
heaping  tablespoonful  flour,  stir  for  few  minutes  ;  add  IY2  pint  white 
bouillon,  Y2  pint  of  cream,  Y2  teaspoonful  salt,  Y4  teaspoonful  nut- 
meg, Y2  cupful  mushroom  liquor,  a  bouquet,  and  cook  10  minutes ; 
remove  the  bouquet,  add  the  onions,  and  cook  till  soft,  stirring  con- 
stantly ;  then  press  through  a  sieve ;  return  the  puree  to  sauce- 
pan, add  3  pints  white  broth,  Y4  cup  of  cream,  and  if  necessary  add 
more  salt ;  put  13  boiled  chicken  or  veal  forcemeat  balls  in  the 
tureen,  and  pour  the  soup  over  it. 

Potage  a  la  Puree  de  Nayets  a  la  Crgme.‚Äî Place  1  pint 
of  fine-sliced  white  turnips  in  a  saucepan  over  the  fire  ;  cover  with 
boiling  water  and  cook  5  minutes  ;  drain  them  on  a  sieve.  Melt  1 
ounce  butter  in  a  saucepan,  add  the  turnips,  1  teaspoonful  sugar,  Ya 
teaspoonful  salt,  and  cook  10  minutes,  stirring  frequently ;  then 
cover  with  white  bouillon,  and  boil  till  tender.  Melt  Y2  ounce  but- 
ter in  a  saucepan,  add  1  tablespoonful  flour,  stir  for  few  minutes ; 
add  Y2  pint  white  bouillon,  Y2  pin*  cream,  a  small  bouquet,  if  handy 
little  mushroom  liquor;  season  with  Y2  teaspoonful  salt,  Y4  teaspoon- 
ful nutmeg,  and  cook  10  minutes;  remove  the  bouquet,  add  the 
turnips,  and  cook  10  minutes,  without  cover ;  press  through  a  sieve ; 
return  the  puree  in  saucepan  to  the  fire,  add  3  pints  of  boiling 
white  bouillon,  and  V2  cup  of  cream ;  serve  with  croutons. 

Potage  a  la  Titricare.‚Äî Peel,  wash,  and  cut  in  slices  8  large 
potatoes,  1  white  onion,  3  stalks  of  celery ;  place  this  into  a  sauce- 
pan with  2  ounces  butter ;  season  with  1  teaspoonful  salt,  Y4  tea- 
spoonful pepper,  the  same  of  grated  nutmeg  ;  set  on  a  slow  fire,  to 
simmer  gently,  stirring  occasionally  until  nearly  dissolved  into  a 
kind  of  puree;   add   1   pint  white  broth,  and  cook   30  minutes 


SOUPS,  E-rc.  45 

longer ;  then  rub  them  through  a  sieve ;  return  the  puree  in  a 
saucepan  to  the  fire,  adding  2  pints  white  broth,  and  boil  gently  15 
minutes  ;  add  Y2  pint  boiling  cream,  a  small  piece  of  butter,  and  a 
pinch  of  sugar.  Put  Y^  cup  of  cooked  green  peas,  and  the  same 
of  asparagus  tops  in  the  tureen  with  the  potato  balls  described 
below. 

Potato  Balls. ‚Äî Bake  3  large  potatoes,  cut  them  in  half  and 
rub  through  a  sieve  ;  then  place  the  potatoes  in  a  saucepan  with  Yg 
ounce  butter,  and  Y2  cup  rich  cream  ;  season  with  salt,  pepper,  and 
nutmeg ;  stir  over  the  fire  till  the  mixture  ceases  to  adhere  to  the 
spoon ;  then  remove  it ;  add  the  yolks  of  2  eggs  and  the  beaten 
white  of  1 ;  mold  them  into  small  balls  like  marbles,  and  drop  into 
boiling  salted  water;  boil  5  minutes;  remove  the  potato  balls  with 
a  skimmer,  lay  them  in  the  tureen,  and  pour  the  soup  over  it. 

Potage  a  la  Creme  d'Orge  a  la  Puree  de  Tolaille.‚Äî 

Place  a  saucepan  with  ^j^  cup  of  barley  over  the  fire ;  add  1  quart 
white  bouillon  and  cook  till  soft;  then  press  it  through  a  sieve.  Ee- 
move  the  meat  from  a  young  roasted  chicken ;  pound  the  meat  very 
fine  and  add  it  to  the  barley ;  chop  the  chicken  bones  into  pieces, 
and  put  the  bones  with  the  remnants  in  a  saucepan  over  the  fire ; 
cover  with  white  bouillon ;  as  soon  as  it  boils,  add  1  leek,  1  onion, 
and  a  bouquet ;  cook  1  hour  ;  then  strain  ;  add  3  pints  of  this  broth 
to  the  chicken  and  barley,  and  boil  10  minutes  ;  then  strain  through 
a  sieve  into  a  clean  saucepan  ;  return  the  soup  to  the  fire ;  melt  Y2 
tablespoonful  butter,  add  Y2  tablespoonful  flour,  stir  for  few  min- 
utes; add  it  to  the  soup  and  boil  10  minutes,  removing  all  the 
scum ;  mix  the  yolks  of  2  eggs  with  Y2  cup  cream,  add  it  to  the 
soup ;  if  necessary  add  little  salt.  The  soup  should  not  boil  after 
the  eggs  are  added. 

Potage  a  la  Puree  de  Volaille  a  la  Reine.‚Äî Take  a  well- 
cleaned  plump  chicken  weighing  3  pounds ;  rub  Y2  tablespoonful  salt 
in  and  over  it ;  put  2  thin  slices  of  larding  pork  over  the  breast ; 
roll  the  chicken  in  buttered  paper  ;  place  it  with  few  thin  slices  of 


46  SOUPS,  Etc. 

larding  pork  in  a  roasting  pan,  adding  1  cup  of  boiling  water ;  roast 
and  baste  till  done,  which  will  take  about  1  hour.  At  the  same 
time  place  a  saucepan  with  a  shank  of  veal  (about  3  pounds)  over  the 
fire ;  add  the  giblets,  neck,  and  the  well-cleaned  feet  of  the  chicken, 
cover  with  cold  water ;  as  soon  as  it  boils  add  1  large  white  onion,  1 
leek,  a  bouquet,  and  Yg  tablespoonful  salt ;  cover  and  boil  slowly.  As 
soon  as  the  chicken  is  done  take  it  out  of  the  oven  ;  free  it  from  the 
paper  ;  remove  the  meat  from  the  breast ;  chop  the  remaining  chicken 
into  pieces  ;  add  it  to  the  soup  and  boil  1  hour.  Chop  and  pound 
the  breast  as  fine  as  possible,  adding  gradually  Yo  cup  cream  ;  place 
it  on  ice ;  20  minutes  before  serving  strain  the  soup  through  a  nap- 
kin, return  the  bouillon  to  the  kettle  and  place  it  over  the  fire. 
Melt  1  ounce  butter  in  a  saucepan,  add  1  tablespoonful  flour,  stir 
for  few  minutes  until  the  butter  has  absorbed  all  the  flour ;  add 
gradually  1  pint  of  the  soup,  stir  until  smooth  ;  then  pour  it  into 
the  soup  and  boil  10  minutes  ;  taste  it ;  if  necessary  add  more  salt ; 
add  the  chicken  puree  (which  was  placed  on  ice)  and  Ys  cup  cream ; 
let  it  come  to  a  boil,  then  serve. 

Potage  a  la  Puree  de  Faisan. ‚Äî Remove  all  meat  from  a 
roasted  pheasant,  chop  and  pound  it  to  a  puree ;  at  the  same  time 
spread  the  bottom  of  a  large  saucepan  with  butter,  add  2  ounces 
fine-cut  ham ;  on  to  this  put  2  pounds  of  shank  of  beef  chopped 
into  pieces,  and  a  small  shank  of  veal  chopped  the  same  way ;  add  1 
pint  of  water  and  boil  till  all  the  water  has  boiled  away  and  a  little 
brown  gravy  remains  on  the  bottom  of  saucepan,  then  add  sufficient 
cold  water  to  cover  all ;  put  to  it  the  chopped  carcass  of  the  pheasant, 
also,  if  handy,  some  poultry  trimmings,  and  boil  again  ;  as  soon  as 
boiling  add  a  bouquet,  1  carrot,  1  onion,  1  leek,  1  white  turnip,  and 
Ys  tablespoonful  salt ;  cover  and  cook  slowly  till  the  meat  separates 
from  the  bones ;  then  strain  the  soup  through  a  napkin ;  return  in 
saucepan  to  the  fire.  Melt  Ys  tablespoonful  butter,  add  Ys  table- 
spoonful flour,  stir  for  few  minutes  ;  add  it  to  the  soup  and  boil  10 
minutes ;  put  in  the  pheasant  puree  a  little  nutmeg,  and  if  neces- 


SOUPS,  Etc.  4Y 

sary  more  salt ;  serve  with  croutons.  This  soup  may  be  also  pre- 
pared of  prairie  hens,  or  partridges  and  rabbits. 

Potage  a  la  Puree  de  Perdreaux  a  la  Dauphine.‚Äî Melt  1 

ounce  butter  in  a  large  saucepan ;  add  2  tablespoonfuls  fine-cut 
onion,  the  same  of  raw  smoked  ham,  carrot,  leek,  and  celery ;  stir 
this  over  the  fire  till  brown,  but  do  not  let  it  burn ;  then  add  1 
pound  shank  of  beef,  the  same  of  veal,  both  chopped  into  small 
pieces  ;  cover  with  cold  water  and  boil  2  hours.  Eemove  the  breast 
from  a  roasted  j)rairie  hen,  chop  and  pound  it  fine ;  add  some  of 
the  bouillon  from  saucepan ;  press  it  through  a  sieve ;  cut  the  re- 
maining hen  into  pieces,  add  it  with  the  gravy  (if  there  is  any)  to 
the  saucepan,  and  boil  1  hour.  In  the  meantime  boil  Yg  pound 
large  chestnuts  in  water  15  minutes ;  take  them  out,  remove  the 
shell ;  return  the  chestnuts  to  saucepan,  cover  with  bouillon  and 
cook  till  tender  ;  then  press  them  through  a  sieve ;  20  minutes  before 
serving  strain  the  soup,  remove  the  fat,  return  it  in  saucepan  to  the 
fire  ;  melt  Yg  tablespoonful  butter,  add  Y2  tablespoonful  floor,  cook 
and  stir  2  minutes ;  add  it  to  the  soup  and  boil  10  minutes ;  then 
add  Y2  teaspoonful  grated  nutmeg,  and  if  necessary  little  salt ;  mix 
the  prairie-hen  puree  and  the  chestnut  puree  together,  add  them  to 
the  soup,  boil  a  few  minutes ;  then  strain  through  a  sieve,  and  serve 
with  small  squares  of  bread  fried  in  butter.  In  place  of  prairie 
hens  3  pigeons  or  6  birds  may  be  taken. 

Potage  a  la  Puree  de  Pois  Terts.‚Äî Boil  1  quart  shelled 
green  peas  in  salted  water ;  drain  and  press  them  through  a  sieve  ; 
mix  the  pea  puree  with  3  pints  white  bouillon,  and  strain  through  a 
sieve  ;  return  the  soup  in  saucepan  to  the  fire  ;  mix  Y2  tablespoonful 
flour  and  Ya  tablespoonful  butter,  stir  for  a  few  minutes  over  the 
fire ;  add  it  to  the  soup,  also  Ys  teaspoonful  sugar,  and  if  necessary 
a  little  salt ;  cook  5  minutes  ;  add  Y3  cupful  boiled  rice,  and  serve. 

Potage  ^  la  Puree  de  Volaille  a  la  Comtesse.‚Äî A  fine 
young  capon,  rolled  in  buttered  paper  and  roasted  till  done,  is  freed 
from  skin  and  bones ;  the  meat  chopped  and  pounded  fine,  with  1 


48  SOUPS,  Etc. 

ounce  butter  and  the  yolks  of  4  hard-boiled  eggs ;  2  slices  of  Vienna 
bread  are  freed  from  crust  and  dried  in  the  oven,  boiled  to  a  puree 
in  white  bouillon ;  then  mixed  with  the  capon  puree  and  pressed 
through  a  sieve  ;  add  2  quarts  white  bouillon,  seasoned  to  taste  with 
salt ;  then  add  Ys  tablespoonf ul  butter,  a  little  nutmeg,  and  Yg  cup 
of  cream  ;  let  the  soup  get  very  hot.  One  cup  of  cooked  green  peas 
and  the  same  of  asparagus  tops  are  put  in  the  tureen,  and  the  soup 
poured  over,  then  serve.  In  place  of  capon  a  chicken  may  be 
used. 

Potage  a  la  Puree  d'Asperges. ‚Äî Peel  1  bunch  of  asparagus; 
cut  the  tender  parts  into  small  pieces ;  place  them  in  a  saucepan, 
and  cover  with  boiling  water;  add  1  teaspoonful  salt,  cook  15 
minutes ;  then  drain  on  a  sieve.  Melt  1  tablespoonf  ul  butter  in  a 
saucepan,  add  the  asparagus,  Ys  teaspoonful  sugar,  and  Yg  teaspoon- 
ful salt ;  cook  and  stir  6  minutes.  In  the  meantime  melt  1  ounce 
butter  in  a  saucepan,  add  lYs  tablespoonful  flour,  stir  for  few  min- 
utes ;  add  1  cupful  chicken  broth,  1  cupful  cream  or  milk,  a  small 
bouquet,  and,  if  on  hand,  Ys  cupful  mushroom  liquor,  cook  10 
minutes ;  remove  the  bouquet,  add  the  asparagus,  cook  until  tender, 
stirring  frequently ;  press  through  a  sieve ;  add  3  pints  of  chicken 
broth,  and  cook  few  minutes ;  then  add  the  yolks  of  2  eggs  mixed 
with  Ys  cup  of  cream  (do  not  let  the  soup  boil  again) ;  put  12  small 
cooked  chicken  forcemeat  balls  in  the  tureen,  pour  the  soup  over, 
and  serve. 

Potage  a  la  Puree  de  Clioux-fleurs. ‚Äî Cut  the  roses  from  a 
large  head  of  cauliflower ;  wash  and  put  them  in  a  saucepan ;  cover 
with  boiling  water ;  add  1  teaspoonful  salt,  and  cook  10  minutes ; 
then  drain  in  a  sieve.  In  the  meantime  melt  1  ounce  butter,  add  1 
tablespoonful  flour,  stir  and  cook  for  few  minutes ;  then  add  1  cup 
of  chicken  broth,  1  cupful  cream,  a  small  bouquet,  and,  if  handy,  a 
little  mushroom  liquor ;  season  with  Ys  teaspoonful  salt,  and  boil  10 
minutes ;  remove  the  bouquet,  add  the  cauliflower  roses,  and  boil  till 
soft,  stirring  frequently ;  press  through  a  sieve  into  a  clean  sauce- 


SOUPS,  Etc.  49 

pan ;  add  3  pints  of  chicken  broth,  and  boil  few  minutes ;  then  add 
the  yolk  of  2  eggs,  mixed  with  Yg  cup  cream ;  if  necessary  add  more 
salt.     Serve  with  toasted  bread  cut  into  strips. 

Potage  d'Abatis  de  Dinde  a  la  Russe.‚Äî Put  the  giblets, 
neck,  and  well-cleaned  feet  of  2  ducks  or  a  turkey  into  boiling  water, 
cook  3  minutes ;  remove ;  rinse  oS.  with  cold  water ;  melt  1  table- 
spoonful  butter,  add  1  fine-chopped  onion,  cook  5  minutes  without 
browning ;  add  Yg  tablespoonf ul  flour,  stir  for  few  minutes,  then  add 
6  pints  of  soup  stock ;  as  soon  as  it  boils  add  the  giblets,  neck,  and 
feet,  and  a  half  cup  of  salt  brine  from  pickled  cucumbers;  cook 
slowly ;  after  10  minutes  boiling  remove  the  livers ;  cut  1  carrot  and 
1  white  turnip  into  julienne,  the  same  of  1  leek,  2  parsley  roots,  a 
little  celery,  and  1  cucumber ;  scald  the  vegetables  for  a  few  minutes 
in  boiling  water ;  drain  in  a  sieve ;  return  them  in  a  saucepan  to  the 
fire,  add  Y2  tablespoonful  butter,  cook  a  few  minutes ;  then  cover 
with  stock  and  cook  till  tender;  boil  12  ravioles,  made  of  nudle 
dough  and  forcemeat,  as  directed,  in  salted  water ;  place  them  with 
the  vegetables  and  the  fine-cut  giblets  in  the  tureen ;  add  Y2  cup 
sour  cream  to  the  soup,  strain  it  through  a  sieve,  pour  it  into  the 
tureen,  and  serve. 

Potage  a  la  Dauphine. ‚Äî Mix  the  yolks  of  4  eggs  with  Y2  cup- 
ful chicken  broth ;  season  with  a  little  salt,  white  pepper,  and  nut- 
meg ;  butter  a  small  bowl,  pour  in  the  mixture,  and  set  the  bowl  in 
a  pan ;  pour  in  some  boiling  water  to  the  depth  of  1  inch ;  cover 
the  pan  and  let  it  boil  slowly  until  the  custard  is  firm  to  the  touch ; 
remove  the  bowl,  let  it  cool  10  minutes ;  then  cut  the  custard  into 
small  slices,  lay  them  in  the  tureen,  and  pour  1  quart  of  clear  con- 
somme over  it ;  add  1  cupful  boiled  asparagus  tops,  and  serve. 

Potage  a  la  Regence. ‚Äî Place  a  soup  kettle  with  1  pound 
shank  of  beef  and  a  small  veal  knuckle  over  the  fire ;  cover  with 
cold  water ;  add  1  even  tablespoonful  salt,  and  as  soon  as  it  boils 
add  a  bouquet,  1  onion,  1  leek,  1  small  carrot,  and  a  well-cleaned 
chicken ;  cover  and  boil  slowly  till  the  chicken  is  tender ;  then  re- 


50  SOUPS,  Etc. 

move  it  from  the  soup,  cut  Yg  the  meat  from  the  breast  into  small 
pieces,  and  place  it  with  a  little  broth  in  a  warm  place.  (The 
remaining  chicken  may  be  used  for  other  purposes.)  Strain  the 
soup,  and  remove  the  fat ;  beat  the  whites  of  2  eggs  to  a  froth,  add 
a  little  cold  water,  stir  them  into  the  soup,  boil  5  minutes;  draw  the 
kettle  to  side  of  stove,  and  after  10  minutes  strain  it  through  a  nap- 
kin ;  if  necessary  add  more  salt.  In  the  meantime  clean  and  cut 
into  slices  1  medium-sized  carrot,  lay  4  slices  over  one  another,  cut 
them  into  small  strips  like  straws ;  cut  1  white  onion,  1  leek,  2  white 
stalks  of  celery  the  same  way ;  place  the  vegetables  in  a  saucepan  ; 
cover  with  boiling  water;  cook  2  minutes;  drain  on  a  sieve  and 
return  the  vegetables  to  saucepan  again ;  add  1  teaspoonf ul  butter, 
cover  with  consomme,  and  cook  till  tender.  Drop  1  tablespoonful 
Italian  paste  into  boiling  water,  cook  10  minutes ;  drain  on  a  sieve ; 
place  them  with  the  vegetables  and  the  fine-cut  chicken  meat  in  the 
tureen ;  pour  over  3  pints  of  the  consomme  described  above,  and 
serve. 

Potage  a  la  Clermont. ‚Äî Soak  lYg  tablespoonful  tapioca  in 
cold  water  for  1  hour ;  cut  1  medium-sized  carrot  into  small  dice- 
like pieces,  also  white  turnip  and  celery,  y,  pintful  in  all ;  place  this 
in  a  saucepan ;  cover  with  boiling  water  and  cook  2  minutes ;  drain 
in  a  sieve ;  add  them  with  the  soaked  tapioca  to  3  pints  of  con- 
somme, boil  30  minutes.  Prepare  12  small  chicken-forcemeat 
balls ;  boil  them  in  salted  water ;  lay  them  with  Yg  pint  of  boiled 
asparagus  tops  in  the  tureen ;  pour  the  boiling  consomme  over,  and 
serve. 

Russian  Soup. ‚Äî Place  a  soup  kettle  with  2  pounds  of  beef 
over  the  fire ;  add  a  small  shank  of  veal ;  Y4  of  a  chicken,  or  the 
giblets,  neck,  and  well-cleaned  feet  of  a  chicken  ;  Y*  pound  parboiled 
lean  salt  pork  and  cover  with  cold  water ;  as  soon  as  it  boils,  add  2 
onions,  1  carrot,  Y2  cup  fine-cut  celery,  3  sprigs  of  parsley ;  cover 
and  boil  slowly  till  done.  At  the  same  time,  wash  1  cupful  sauer- 
kraut in  water,  melt  one  ounce  butter  in  a  saucepan,  add  1  fine- 


SOUPS,  Etc.  51 

chopped  onion ;  press  out  the  kraut,  chop  it  fine,  put  it  in  the 
saucepan,  stir  5  minutes  over  the  fire ;  then  add  1  tablespoonf ul 
flour,  stir  for  few  minutes ;  strain  the  soup,  add  273  quarts  of  the 
broth  to  the  kraut  and  cook  slowly  iVg  hour,  removing  all  the 
scum  that  rises ;  shortly  before  serving  add  3  Frankfurter  sausages 
to  the  soup,  cook  3  minutes,  then  remove ;  cut  the  Frankfurter  into 
slices,  also  a  little  of  the  meat  and  pork  into  small  pieces ;  add  them 
with  1  tablespoonf  ul  fine-chopped  parsley  to  the  soup;  season  to 
taste  with  salt  and  pepper,  and  serve. 

Russian  Tegetable  Soup. ‚Äî Place  1  pound  of  lean  beef,  and 
Ys  pound  of  lean  ham,  with  3  quarts  cold  water,  over  the  fire ;  add 
a  little  salt,  and  let  it  boil  until  the  meat  is  done ;  cut  1  onion,  1 
carrot,  some  celery,  and  1  leek  into  small  pieces ;  place  in  a  small 
saucepan  Yg  cupful  of  dried  peas,  covered  with  cold  water,  over  the 
fire ;  as  soon  as  this  boils,  add  the  fine-cut  vegetables  and  a  little 
salt,  and  boil  till  done.  Shortly  before  serving  take  out  the  meat, 
cut  it  into  small  pieces  and  put  it  with  the  vegetables  in  the  tureen, 
add  some  boiled  rice,  strain  the  soup  and  pour  it  over.  If  the  meat 
is  to  be  used  for  other  purposes,  sausages  may  be  fried,  cut  into 
slices,  and  added  to  the  soup  instead  of  meat. 

Stchy  aux  Chonx  Nouveaux. ‚Äî Place  a  soup  kettle  with  Y4 
chicken,  the  giblets,  1  pound  shank  of  beef,  and  a  small  shank  of 
veal,  over  the  fire ;  add  2  ounces  lean  salt  pork,  cover  with  cold 
water,  and  boil  till  the  meat  is  done ;  chop  fine  2  white  onions, 
place  them  in  a  saucepan  with  1  ounce  butter,  cook  until  light 
brown,  then  add  Y2  tablespoonful  flour,  stir  for  few  minutes ;  add  2 
quarts  of  the  above  broth,  and  boil  slowly  16  minutes ;  draw  it  to 
side  of  stove  to  simmer  slowly.  Cut  a  small  head  of  cabbage  into 
quarters,  place  it  in  saucepan  with  boiling  water,  and  1  tablespoon- 
ful sugar  over  the  fire,  boil  5  minutes ;  then  drain  off  the  water ; 
add  1  quart  of  the  soup,  1  fine-cut  leek,  1  carrot,  and  a  little  white 
celery;  season  with  1  teaspoonful  salt,  cover  and  boil  till  tender. 
Twenty  minutes  before  serving  lay  3  fresh  sausages  on  top  of  the 


52  SOUPS,  Etc. 

cabbage,  and  cook  till  done ;  then  remove  them,  cnt  the  sausages 
into  slices,  also  the  chicken  meat  and  pork ;  place  this  with  the  cab- 
bage in  the  tureen,  and  pour  the  remaining  quart  of  broth  over  it ; 
add  1  tablespoonf ul  fine-chopped  green  fennel  or  parsley,  and  serve. 

Season  to  taste  with  salt. 

Bread  Crotitous  for  Soup. ‚Äî Cut  or  grate  the  rind  off  a  stale 
loaf  of  bread ;  cut  the  loaf  into  slices,  and  then  either  into  little 
square  pieces,  or  into  small  long  pieces,  or  cut  them  with  a  tin  cut- 
ter into  round  pieces.  Shortly  before  serving,  fry  in  butter  to  a 
delicate  brown ;  throw  them  in  a  colander,  then  lay  on  blotting 
paper,  to  absorb  all  the  grease.     Set  in  a  warm  place  till  wanted. 

Cheese  Crotitons  for  Soup.‚Äî Cut  or  grate  the  rind  off  a 
small  loaf  of  bread,  cut  the  loaf  into  slices,  and  toast  them ;  then 
butter  a  deep  dish,  lay  the  toasted  bread  into  this,  pour  a  few  spoon- 
fuls of  bouillon  over  the  toast,  add  a  little  bouillon  fat,  put  a  layer 
of  grated  cheese  on  top  of  this,  and  bake  10  minutes  in  the  oven. 
Serve  with  clear  bouillon  and  forcemeat  balls. 

Sago  for  Soup. ‚Äî Place  the  sago  into  hot  water  for  a  few  min- 
utes ;  then  throw  it  into  a  sieve,  rinse  it  off  with  cold  water,  and 
boil  in  the  soup  until  done. 

Tapioca  for  Soup. ‚Äî Wash  the  tapioca,  let  it  lay  1  hour  in  cold 
water,  and  boil  it  in  the  soup  till  done. 

Farina  for  Soup. ‚Äî Put  the  farina  dry  in  the  boiling  soup  and 
boil  for  5  minutes. 

Barley  prepared  for  Fine  Soups.‚Äî Soak  fine  barley  for  Vg 
hour  in  cold  water ;  then  place  it  with  cold  water  over  the  fire,  boil 
15  minutes ;  throw  it  into  a  sieve,  and  pour  cold  water  over  it ;  boil 
in  bouillon  until  done. 

Rice  for  Soup. ‚Äî Wash  the  rice ;  place  it  in  a  saucepan,  covered 
with  cold  water,  over  the  fire,  and  boil  5  minutes ;  then  drain  in  a 
sieve ;  rinse  off  with  cold  water ;  add  it  to  the  soup,  and  boil  till 
tender;  or  cook  in  a  separate  saucepan  with  some  of  the  soup 
stock  ;  add  it  to  the  soup  when  ready  to  serve. 


SOUPS,  Etc.  53 

Macaroni  for  Soup. ‚Äî Break  the  macaroni  into  pieces,  drop  it 
into  a  saucepan  of  boiling  water,  add  a  little  salt,  and  boil  15  min- 
utes ;  then  drain  it  on  a  sieve,  rinse  off  with  cold  water,  lay  the 
macaroni  on  a  napkin  and  cut  it  into  small  lengths  1  inch  long, 
and  boil  it  in  the  soup  till  done.  Spaghetti  is  prepared  in  the  same 
way. 

Termicelli  for  Soup. ‚Äî Put  the  vermicelli  in  a  saucepan, 
cover  with  boiling  water,  and  cook  5  minutes ;  drain  in  a  sieve ; 
rinse  o¬£E  with  cold  water ;  then  boil  the  vermicelli  in  the  soup  until 
done. 

Italian  Paste  for  Soup. ‚Äî Place  the  paste  in  a  bowl,  cover 
with  boiling  water,  let  it  remain  2  minutes ;  then  drain  in  a  sieve, 
pour  over  some  cold  water,  add  it  to  the  soup,  and  boil  till  done. 

Fish  Chowder. ‚Äî Take  either  a  small  live  codfish  or  haddock ; 
remove  the  bones,  head,  and  skin;  cut  the  meat  into  inch-sized 
pieces ;  put  them  into  a  bowl  with  one  tablespoonf ul  salt  and  1 
quart  water ;  place  a  soup  kettle  with  a  small  shank  of  veal  over  the 
fire ;  cover  with  cold  water ;  as  soon  as  it  boils  add  2  fine-cut  onions, 
1  carrot,  a  little  celery,  the  fish  bones,  the  head,  Yg  tablespoonf  ul 
salt,  and  boil  2  hours ;  then  strain.  Fry  in  a  saucepan  2  ounces 
fine-cut  larding  pork  with  2  fine-chopped  onions  5  minutes  without 
browning ;  add  Yg  tablespoonf  ul  butter,  2  tablespoonfuls  flour,  and 
cook  2  minutes ;  add  the  strained  broth,  and  boil  5  minutes ;  add  1 
pint  fine-cut  peeled  potatoes,  and  boil  10  minutes  ;  remove  the  fish 
pieces  from  the  salt  water,  wash  well  in  cold  water,  wipe  dry,  and 
add  them  to  the  chowder ;  season  with  1  even  teaspoonful  white 
pepper,  and  cook  10  minutes ;  add  two  tablespoonfuls  unsweetened 
condensed  milk,  1  tablespoonful  fine-chopped  parsley,  and  if  neces- 
sary add  more  salt. 

Fish  Soup. ‚Äî Select  a  good-sized  weakfish;  remove  the  skin 
and  bones,  season  the  meat  with  salt  and  the  juice  of  Ys  lemon ; 
melt  1  tablespoonful  butter  in  a  frying  pan,  put  in  the  fish,  and  fry 
on  both  sides  till  done ;  let  the  fish  get  cold,  then  cut  it  into  small 


54:  SOUPS,  Etc. 

pieces.  Place  the  fish  head  and  bones  in  a  saucepan,  cover  with  1 
pint  bouillon,  and  set  it  over  the  fire ;  as  soon  as  it  boils  add  1 
onion,  Yg  carrot,  a  good-sized  bouquet,  and  boil  20  minutes ;  then 
add  Ya  bottle  of  white  wine,  and  cook  slowly  20  minutes ;  strain  the 
essence  through  a  napkin  into  a  clean  saucepan,  add  3  pints  con- 
somme, season  with  a  little  Cayenne  pepper  and,  if  necessary,  some 
salt ;  return  the  soup  to  the  fire,  add  Y2  cupful  fine-cut  mushrooms, 
and  cook  10  minutes ;  next  scald  12  oysters  in  their  own  liquor,  and 
boil  12  fish  forcemeat  balls  in  salted  water ;  lay  them  with  the  fish 
meat  in  the  tureen,  and  pour  the  soup  over  all.  In  place  of  weak- 
fish,  pickerel  or  flounders  may  be  taken. 

Carp  Soup. ‚Äî Select  a  good-sized  carp,  clean  and  wash  it,  put  it 
in  a  kettle,  add  Y2  bottle  Ehine  wine  and  sufficient  white  broth  to 
cover,  1  onion,  Yg  carrot,  and  a  bouquet ;  place  the  kettle  over  the 
fire,  and  cook  till  tender ;  remove  from  the  fire,  and  let  the  fish  re- 
main in  the  broth  till  cold  ;  then  take  it  out,  remove  all  the  meat 
from  the  bones,  and  pound  it  fine ;  strain  the  broth,  cut  a  roll  into 
slices,  add  it  to  the  broth,  and  boil  15  minutes ;  then  add  it  to  the 
fish,  with  the  yolk  of  3  hard-boiled  eggs,  and  mix  all  well  together ; 
put  the  mixture  in  a  saucepan,  add  sufficient  white  bouillon  to  make 
a  creamy  soup ;  let  it  boil  a  few  minutes ;  press  it  through  a  sieve ; 
let  it  get  hot,  add  Y2  ounce  butter  and  2  fillets  of  anchovies  mashed 
fine ;  then  serve. 

Bisque  of  Clams. ‚Äî Twenty  hard-shell  clams  and  their  liquor, 
2  quarts  white  broth,  Y^  cup  rice,  Ys  teaspoonful  white  pepper,  Y'^ 
pint  cream,  and  1  bouquet.  Take  the  clams  out  of  their  liquor  with 
a  fork ;  strain  the  liquor  into  a  saucepan,  add  the  clams,  and  let  it 
come  to  a  boil.  Transfer  the  clams  to  a  chopping  bowl,  and  mince 
them  very  fine ;  return  them  to  the  liquor  in  saucepan,  add  2  quarts 
white  broth,  the  rice,  and  a  bouquet  made  of  2  sprigs  of  parsley,  1 
sprig  of  thyme,  2  blades  of  mace,  1  bay  leaf,  2  cloves,  and  6  whole 
peppers  tied  together  in  a  bunch  ;  add  the  pepper,  and  boil  slowly  1 
hour ;  then  strain,  add  Y2  piiit  rich  sweet  cream,  let  it  get  boiling 


SOUPS,  Etc.  55 

hot,  but  do  not  allow  it  to  boil.  Serve  with  small  dice  of  fried 
bread. 

Bisque  of  Clam  Bouillon.‚Äî Place  a  saucepan  with  1  table- 
spoonful  butter  over  the  fire  ;  add  3  tablespoonf  uls  fine-cut  onion,  1 
tablespoonf  ul  grated  carrot ;  cover,  and  cook  until  the  onions  and 
carrots  are  done,  stirring  it  occasionally ;  then  add  1  tablespoonf  ul 
flour,  stir  a  few  minutes,  add  1  pint  of  boiling  water,  1  pint  of  clam 
bouillon,  and  cook  5  minutes;  strain,  and  return  the  bisque  to 
saucepan;  mix  the  yolk  of  2  eggs  with  a  half  cup  cream;  add 
slowly  to  the  bisque,  and  serve  with  small  oyster  crackers. 

Clam  Cream  Stew.‚Äî Chop  fine  1  quart  of  clams,  and  strain 
the  liquor ;  place  a  saucepan  with  2  fine-chopped  white  onions,  2 
tablespoonfuls  fine-cut  white  celery,  and  1  tablespoonful  butter  over 
the  fire,  cover,  and  cook  5  minutes  without  browning ;  add  1  table- 
spoonful  flour,  cook  and  stir  a  few  minutes ;  then  add  1  pint  of  boil- 
ing water  and  the  clam  liquor  ;  also  1  pint  fine-cut  potatoes,  1  even 
teaspoonful  white  pepper,  and  boil  until  potatoes  are  done  ;  add  the 
chopped  clams,  and  cook  6  minutes.  When  ready  to  serve,  add  1 
cupful  rich  sweet  cream  or  Yg  cup  of  unsweetened  condensed  milk. 

Clam  Chowder. ‚Äî One  quart  hard-shell  clams,  1  cup  fine-cut 
carrots,  Yg  cup  fine-cut  celery,  1  pint  fine-cut  onions,  1  quart  fine-cut 
potatoes,  Ys  can  tomatoes,  2  quarts  boiling  water,  4  ounces  larding 
pork,  1  teaspoonful  salt,  1  even  teaspoonful  white  pepper,  1  tea- 
spoonful  pulverized  thyme,  and  1  teaspoonful  beef  extract ;  place 
the  pork  in  a  saucepan  over  the  fire,  and  fry  light  brown ;  add  the 
boiling  water,  the  carrots,  onions,  and  celery,  cook  iintil  the  carrots 
are  done ;  then  add  the  potatoes,  salt,  and  pepper,  and  cook  10 
minutes ;  add  the  tomatoes,  and  cook  20  minutes  longer ;  then  add 
the  fine-chopped  clams  and  their  liquor,  the  thyme,  beef  extract, 
and  a  little  Cayenne  pepper.  Melt  Ys  tablespoonful  butter  in  a  small 
saucepan,  add  Ys  tablespoonful  flour,  stir  for  a  few  minutes  over  the 
fire ;  add  it  to  the  chowder,  boil  10  minutes,  and  serve. 

Clam  Soup. ‚Äî Chop  fine  25  clams,  strain  the  liquor ;  melt  1 


56  SOUPS,  Etc. 

tablespoonful  butter  in  a  saucepan,  add  2  tablespoonfuls  fine- 
chopped  white  onions,  and  cook  5  minutes  without  browning ;  then 
add  2  fine-rolled  soda  crackers,  and  stir  a  few  minutes ;  add  1  pint  of 
boiling  water,  1  pint  of  fine-cut  potatoes,  1  even  teaspoonful  pepper, 
and  cook  15  minutes ;  add  to  it  1  cup  canned  tomatoes,  and  cook 
10  minutes  longer ;  next  add  the  clams  and  liquor,  cook  again  10 
minutes  ;  put  1  pint  of  boiling  milk  in  the  tureen,  pour  in  the  soup, 
and  serve  with  crackers. 

Oyster  Cream  Soup. ‚Äî Place  a  saucepan  with  Vg  ounce  butter 
and  1  fine-chopped  white  onion  over  the  fire ;  cook  5  minutes  with- 
out browning ;  add  1  tablespoonful  flour  and  cook  a  few  minutes  ; 
then  add  3  cupfuls  chicken  or  veal  broth,  and  the  strained  liquor  of 
1  quart  of  oysters ;  season  with  Yg  teaspoonful  salt,  Yg  teaspoonful 
white  pepper ;  cook  10  minutes ;  strain  into  a  clean  saucepan ;  re- 
turn it  to  the  fire,  add  the  oysters,  boil  2  minutes ;  remove  the 
saucepan  to  side  of  stove ;  mix  the  yolks  of  2  eggs  with  1  cup  of 
cream,  add  it  slowly  to  the  soup,  do  not  let  boil  again ;  serve  with 
small  oyster  crackers. 

Oyster  Soup  with  Milk. ‚Äî Strain  the  liquor  from  a  quart  of 
oysters  into  a  saucepan ;  add  the  oysters,  Y2  tablespoonful  butter,  2 
tablespoonfuls  rolled  cracker,  a  little  salt,  some  white  pepper,  and 
boil  until  the  oysters  ruffle,  which  takes  about  3  minutes ;  add  1 
pint  of  boiling  milk  and  serve. 

Crab  Bisque  a  I'Allemande. ‚Äî Drop  6  live  crabs  into  boiling 
water,  add  1  tablespoonful  salt  and  boil  12  minutes  ;  then  remove  and 
when  cold  split  them  with  a  knife ;  extract  all  the  meat ;  wash  the 
shells  and  dry  them  in  the  oven ;  then  place  them  in  a  chopping 
bowl,  add  2  ounces  butter,  and  pound  them  fine ;  place  the  shells 
and  butter  in  a  saucepan,  and  stir  10  minutes  over  the  fire ; 
add  2  quarts  chicken  stock  mentioned  below,  and  cook  slowly  10 
minutes  longer  ;  strain  the  soup  into  another  saucepan,  add  Y2  cup- 
ful cream  and  3  well-beaten  eggs,  place  the  soup  over  the  fire,  beat 
constantly  with  an  egg  beater  till  just  before  the  boiling  point,  then 


SOUPS,  Etc.  57 

add  the  crab  meat,  and  12  chicken-forcemeat  balls  previously- 
boiled  in  salted  water. 

Chicken"  Stock. ‚Äî Clean  and  wash  a  chicken,  remove  the 
breast  (to  be  used  for  the  forcemeat  balls)  ;  place  the  chicken  in  a 
saucepan  over  the  fire,  and  cover  with  water ;  as  soon  as  it  boils, 
add  2  onions,  1  leek,  a  bouquet,  and  Yg  tablespoonful  salt ;  cover, 
and  boil  slowly.  When  the  chicken  is  done  remove  it.  Melt  1 
tablespoonful  butter  in  a  frying  pan,  add  1  tablespoonful  flour  ;  stir 
a  few  minutes  over  the  fire  without  browning ;  add  it  to  the  soup 
and  boil  five  minutes ;  then  strain  and  use  as  directed  above. 

Bisque  of  Crab. ‚Äî Drop  6  hard-shell  crabs  into  boiling  water, 
add  1  tablespoonful  salt,  and  cook  12  minutes ;  remove  them  with 
a  skimmer ;  when  cold  open  the  crabs  with  a  knife  and  extract  all 
the  meat ;  put  the  meat  from  the  claws  aside  ;  chop  the  remaining 
meat  fine,  place  it  in  a  saucepan  with  1  cupful  rice  and  3  quarts 
‚Ä¢white  broth,  add  a  bouquet,  a  little  salt  and  pepper,  cover,  and  boil 

1  hour  ;  then  strain  through  a  sieve,  return  the  liquid  to  saucepan  ; 
add  Yg  pint  of  cream  and  the  crab  meat  from  the  claws ;  let  it  get  boil- 
ing hot ;  if  necessary,  add  more  salt  and  pepper.  Serve  with  croutons. 

Bisque  of  Lobster. ‚Äî Extract  the  meat  from  a  fresh-boiled 
lobster ;  cut  the  meat  from  the  claws  into  small  squares,  and  put 
them  in  a  tureen  (if  the  lobster  has  any  coral  rub  it  very  fine) ; 
mix  with  Yz  ounce  butter,  and  press  it  through  a  sieve ;  then 
chop  the  remaining  lobster  meat  fine.  Melt  IY2  ounce  butter  in  a 
saucepan,  add  2  tablespoonfuls  flour,  stir  and  cook  2  minutes  with- 
out browning ;  add  2  quarts  chicken  or  veal  broth  and  the  chopped 
lobster  meat,  boil  1  hour ;  then  strain  into  a  clean  saucepan  and 
return  it  to  the  fire  ;  add  the  coral  butter,  boil  5  minutes  ;  draw  the 
saucepan  to  side  of  stove ;  mix  Y2  cup  sweet  cream  with  the  yolk  of 

2  eggs,  add  them  slowly  to  the  bisque,  also  Y2  cupful  boiled  rice ; 
season  with  salt  to  taste,  then  pour  it  in  the  tureen  over  the  lobster 
meat.  In  place  of  rice,  small  chicken  forcemeat  balls,  previously 
boiled  in  salted  water,  or  egg  balls,  may  be  added. 


58  SOUPS,  Etc. 

Green  Turtle,  how  to  preserve. ‚Äî The  American  green 
turtles  are  considered  the  best.  They  weigh  from  100  to  600 
pounds,  obtain  a  length  of  5  to  6  feet,  and  are  abundant  in  the 
tropical  waters  of  America,  whence  great  numbers  are  carried  alive 
to  the  Northern  States  and  to  Europe.  The  West  Indies  are  their 
headquarters,  whence  they  wander  to  the  Gulf  of  Mexico  and  tlie 
coast  of  Guiana  and  Brazil ;  they  are  rarely  found  above  lat.  34¬∞  N. 
on  the  Atlantic  coast,  and  never  on  the  shores  of  Europe. 

Select  a  turtle  weighing  from  100  to  120  pounds ;  hang  it  up  by 
the  hind  legs  with  a  strong  cord  ;  tie  a  string  around  the  neck  ;  pull 
out  the  head,  cut  it  off  with  a  sharp  knife,  and  let  it  hang  12  hours 
to  bleed.  Then  take  the  turtle  down  and  lay  it  on  its  back  ;  stick 
a  sharp-pointed  knife  into  the  margin,  and  cut  the  shell  loose  all 
around ;  then  remove  the  upper  shell  from  the  lower.  Throw  the 
entrails  away,  taking  particular  care  to  remove  and  preserve  every 
particle  of  the  green  fat ;  cut  the  feet  loose  from  the  under  shell ; 
cut  them  into  pieces,  and  put  these  with  the  head  and  the  remain- 
ing meat  into  cold  water  for  several  hours  ;  next  cut  and  scrape  off 
the  scales  and  horny  part  from  the  feet ;  plunge  the  turtle  into 
boiling  water,  letting  it  remain  3  minutes;  remove  and  instantly 
plunge  it  into  cold  water  ;  change  the  water  several  times.  When 
cold,  place  the  turtle  into  a  large  kettle ;  cover  with  white  stock ; 
place  the  kettle  over  the  fire  ;  as  soon  as  it  boils,  add  2  bottles  of 
Madeira  wine,  some  salt,  a  large  bouquet  made  of  a  handful  of 
parsley,  4  bay  leaves,  13  cloves,  4  sprigs  of  thyme,  4  blades  of  mace, 
the  same  of  marjoram  and  basil,  and  boil  from  2  to  3  hours,  or  till 
the  meat  is  done ;  then  remove  the  kettle  from  the  fire ;  let  the  meat 
cool  in  the  broth.  Now  remove  all  the  large  pieces  of  meat  which 
resemble  calf's  head  (the  lean  meat  can  not  be  used)  ;  remove  all 
the  fat  from  the  broth,  strain  the  latter  into  a  clean  kettle  ;  place  it 
over  the  fire,  and  reduce  it  to  one  half  by  boiling.  Put  the  meat 
into  tin  cans,  cover  them  with  the  broth,  have  the  cans  soldered  ; 
boil  them  2  hours  in  water;  keep  the  cans  3  inches  under  water 
while  boiling.     Turtle  prepared  in  this  way  will  keep  for  years. 


SOUPS,  Etc.  59 

Turtle  Soup  of  Snapping  Turtle.‚Äî Select  a  turtle  weighing 
about  10  pounds.  In  order  to  kill  it  put  a  red-hot  iron  to  its  back, 
and  as  soon  as  it  shows  its  head  chop  it  off  with  some  sharp  instru- 
ment. Hang  the  turtle  up  by  its  hind  legs  to  bleed  several  hours  ; 
then  lay  it  on  its  back,  stick  a  sharp-pointed  knife  into  the  margin, 
and  cut  the  shell  loose  all  around  ;  separate  the  upper  from  the 
lower  shell,  and  remove  the  meat ;  then  wash  the  meat  and  let  it 
lay  in  cold  water  for  several  hours.  After  that  scald  it  in  boiling 
water ;  cool  it  in  cold  water,  remove  the  brown  skin  from  the  feet, 
and  cut  off  the  nails  ;  then  place  the  meat  over  the  fire,  with  suffi- 
cient stock  to  cover  it ;  add  some  soup  vegetables,  a  bouquet  of 
parsley,  thyme,  a  few  cloves,  bay  leaves,  some  whole  peppers,  and 
salt ;  let  it  boil  slowly  till  done.  Prepare  some  small  balls  to  repre- 
sent the  turtle  eggs,  as  follows :  Eub  the  yolks  of  4  hard-boiled 
eggs  fine,  add  the  yolk  of  1  raw  egg,  Yg  teaspoonful  butter,  a  little 
salt,  and  some  flour ;  form  this  into  small  balls,  and  boil  them  in 
salted  water  5  minutes.  When  the  meat  is  done  take  it  out  and  cut 
it  into  small  pieces ;  place  it  in  a  saucepan  and  cover  with  a  little 
broth  to  keep  it  warm ;  then  strain  the  remaining  broth  into  a 
clean  saucepan,  return  it  to  the  fire,  melt  lYg  ounce  of  butter,  add 
lYa  tablespoonful  flour,  stir  for  a  few  minutes  ;  add  it  to  the  soup ; 
season  to  taste  with  salt,  and,  if  handy,  add  Y2  cup  sherry  wine ; 
boil  ten  minutes.  Put  the  egg  balls  and  meat  in  the  tureen,  pour 
the  soup  over  all,  and  serve. 

Green-Turtle  Soup. ‚Äî Open  a  can  of  preserved  turtle  and  set 
it  in  hot  water  until  the  stock  melts  ;  then  take  out  the  meat,  cut  it 
into  pieces  and  set  it  with  some  of  the  liquor  in  a  warm  place  ;  put 
the  remaining  liquor  with  2Y2  quarts  of  consomme  over  the  fire  ; 
add,  if  handy,  a  few  fine-cut  mushrooms,  cover  and  boil  Y4  hour. 
At  the  same  time  simmer  in  a  small  saucepan  2  fine-cut  onions,  1 
bay  leaf,  a  little  thyme,  marjoram,  sweet  basil,  3  cloves,  12  whole 
peppers,  with  Ya  pi^it  Madeira  wine,  20  minutes.  Shortly  before 
serving  strain  this  wine  essence  through  a  fine  piece  of  muslin. 


60  SOUPS,  Etc. 

press  it  out,  and  add  it  with  a  little  Cayenne  pepper  to  the  soup. 
Put  the  turtle  meat  in  the  tureen ;  have  some  mock  eggs  prepared 
as  follows :  Kub  fine  the  yolks  of  3  hard-boiled  eggs,  add  a  little 
butter,  1  raw  yolk,  a  sprinkle  of  salt,  and  suflBcient  flour  to  form 
into  small  balls  like  marbles ;  then  boil  in  salted  water  for  5  min- 
utes. Lay  them  in  the  tureen  with  the  turtle  meat  and  pour  the 
soup  over  all.  This  soup  must  be  clear  and  have  a  strong  flavor  of 
spice.  Preserved  turtle  can  be  bought  in  cans  from  any  first-class 
grocer. 

Potage  d'Anguille  a  la  Hambourgeoise  {Hamhurger  Aal- 
Suppe). ‚Äî Cut  2  pounds  of  well-cleaned  eels  into  2-inch-sized  pieces; 
put  them  in  a  saucepan ;  cover  with  boiling  water ;  add  1  table- 
spoonful  salt,  Yg  cupful  vinegar,  2  onions,  a  bouquet,  and  1  carrot ; 
let  it  simmer  15  minutes.  Place  a  saucepan  with  1  cupful  fine-cut 
young  carrots  over  the  fire  ;  cover  with  boiling  water ;  add  1  tea- 
spoonful  sugar  and  a  little  butter,  boil  20  minutes  ;  then  add  1  cup- 
ful young  green  peas,  cook  until  tender ;  now  add  2  quarts  white 
stock,  1  teaspoonful  fine-chopped  chervil,  the  same  of  thyme,  mar- 
joram, tarragon,  sweet  basil,  and  a  little  fine-chopped  mint;  add 
Ys  of  the  eel  broth,  Yi  cup  white  vinegar,  2  tablespoonfuls  sugar,  Y2' 
teaspoonful  pepper,  cook  10  minutes,  adding,  if  necessary,  a  little 
salt.  In  the  meantime  peel,  cut  in  Y2?  ^^^  stew  Y2  dozen  pears  in 
water  and  sugar  till  done.  Place  a  saucepan  with  Ys  cup  milk  over 
the  fire  ;  as  soon  as  it  boils  add  Y2  tablespoonf  ul  butter  and  Ys  cup 
flour,  stir  until  it  forms  into  a  paste  ;  then  remove  from  fire,  and 
when  nearly  cold  add  the  yolks  of  2  eggs,  1  whole  egg^  a  little  salt, 
and  nutmeg ;  stir  until  smooth ;  then  drop  with  a  teaspoon  small 
portions  of  it  into  the  boiling  soup,  cook  5  minutes ;  add  1  table- 
spoonful  fine-chopped  parsley ;  put  the  eels  into  the  tureen,  pour 
the  soup  over  it ;  serve  the  pears  separate  or  put  3  eel  pieces  and  2 
pear  halves  in  each  soup  plate. 

Potage  d'Anguille  a  la  Marini^re. ‚Äî Cut  2  good-sized  well- 
cleaned  eels  into  pieces  2  inches  in  length ;  place  them  with  Y2 


SOUPS,  Etc.  61 

bottle  Bordeaux  wine  in  a  saucepan  over  the  fire ;  add  1  pint 
bouillon,  2  onions,  1  carrot,  a  bouquet,  1  teaspoonful  salt,  and  cook 
till  done ;  then  take  out  the  eels,  remove  the  meat  from  the  bones, 
cut  it  fine  and  place  it  in  a  small  saucepan  with  a  little  of  the 
broth ;  set  it  in  a  warm  place.  Eeduce  the  eel  broth  by  boiling  to 
one  half ;  then  strain  it ;  return  the  broth  to  a  clean  saucepan ;  add 
3  pints  white  broth  ;  as  soon  as  it  boils  melt  1  tablespoonful  butter, 
add  1  tablespoonful  flour,  stir  for  a  few  minutes ;  add  it  to  the  soup. 
Put  to  it  12  button  mushrooms ;  boil  20  minutes ;  remove  all  the 
fat ;  put  12  small  white  onions,  boiled  in  a  little  bouillon  and  Yg 
teaspoonful  sugar,  in  the  tureen,  also  12  small  fish  balls,  previously 
boiled  in  salted  water ;  add  the  meat  from  the  eels,  pour  the  soup 
over,  and  serve. 

Potage  a  la  Creme  de  Riz  h  PEssence  d'^^crevisses.‚Äî 

Place  a  saucepan  with  2  quarts  of  white  stock  over  the  fire  ;  as  soon 
as  it  boils  add  4  ounces  of  rice  flour  mixed  with  1  cup  cold  bouillon, 
stir  for  a  few  minutes,  let  it  cook  30  minutes.  In  the  meantime 
extract  the  meat  from  8  boiled  crabs ;  set  1  cup  of  the  crab  meat 
aside  ;  add  the  remaining  to  the  soup,  boil  10  minutes  ;  then  strain 
through  a  sieve  into  a  clean  saucepan,  add  1  ounce  of  crab  or  craw- 
fish butter,  the  crab  meat,  and  Yg  cup  of  cream ;  season  to  taste 
with  salt,  and  serve. 

Matelote  Soup. ‚Äî Put  Ys  pint  of  Bordeaux  wine  in  a  saucepan  ; 
add  2  quarts  consomme  and  a  large  bouquet ;  boil  30  minutes  ;  re- 
move the  scum ;  then  add  4  tablespoonfuls  Madeira,  Y2  ounce  of 
crawfish  or  lobster  butter,  and  Y2  ounce  anchovy  butter;  cook  a 
few  minutes,  and  strain  through  a  fine  sieve.  Have  ready  12  small 
fish-forcemeat  balls,  1  cupful  fine-cut  cooked  crab  or  lobster  meat, 
12  oysters  previously  scalded  and  freed  from  their  beards,  and  12 
small  boiled  white  onions ;  add  all  the  ingredients  to  the  soup,  and 
serve. 


62  SOUPS,  Etc. 

SOUPS  WITHOUT  MEAT. 

Mushroom  Soup. ‚Äî Chop  fine  1  white  onion,  place  it  in  a  sauce- 
pan over  the  fire  with  1  ounce  butter,  cook  5  minutes ;  add  1  table- 
spoonful  flour  ;  stir  for  a  few  minutes  ;  add  3  pints  boiling  water,  1 
teaspoonful  salt,  and  a  bouquet ;  cover  and  boil  20  minutes ;  then 
strain,  add  1  teaspoonful  beef  extract,  Yg  can  button  mushrooms ; 
cook  15  minutes ;  mix  the  yolks  of  2  eggs  with  Yg  cup  cream,  add  it 
slowly  to  the  soup ;  if  necessary  add  more  salt,  and  serve.  In  place 
of  canned  mushrooms,  4  ounces  of  fresh  mushrooms  may  be  cleaned 
and  used  as  directed.     (See  Musheooms.) 

Bread  Soup. ‚Äî Melt  1  tablespoonful  butter  in  a  saucepan  ;  add 
2  fine-chopped  onions,  1  tablespoonful  fine-chopped  celery,  1  fine- 
cut  carrot,  1  leek  cut  into  pieces ;  cook  10  minutes,  stirring  con- 
stantly; then  add  2  quarts  boiling  water  and  1  cup  bread  crumbs  ; 
season  with  Ys  tablespoonful  salt,  and  boil  40  minutes ;  then  strain  ; 
add  1  teaspoonful  beef  extract,  little  nutmeg,  1  tablespoonful  fine- 
chopped  parsley,  few  spoonfuls  of  cream,  or  a  little  unsweetened 
condensed  milk.  In  place  of  beef  extract,  mix  the  yolks  of  3  eggs 
with  Y4  cupful  cream  or  milk,  and  add  it  to  the  soup ;  let  it  get 
hot,  but  not  boil ;  then  serve. 

Pea  Soup  of  Split  Peas.‚Äî Wash  1  pint  split  peas ;  put  them 
with  2  quarts  cold  water  in  saucepan  over  the  fire  ;  add  Y2  table- 
spoonful salt ;  as  soon  as  it  boils,  add  Y2  cupful  fine-cut  celery,  and 
1  large  peeled  potato,  cut  into  pieces.  Fry  in  1  tablespoonful  but- 
ter or  drippings  2  fine-chopped  onions  5  minutes ;  add  them  to  the 
soup  with  1  fine-cut  carrot,  cover  the  saucepan,  and  boil  the  soup 
till  done  ;  season  to  taste  with  salt  and  a  little  white  pepper  ;  serve 
with  small  squares  of  toasted  bread.  If  this  soup  is  to  be  extra  nice, 
add  a  little  beef  extract  and  Y2  cup  of  cream ;  also  1  tablespoonful 
unsweetened  condensed  milk  is  an  improvement ;  a  small  piece  of 
bone  from  a  boiled  ham  may  be  boiled  with  the  peas. 

Green-Pea  Soup. ‚Äî Shell  2  quarts  of  fresh  green  peas,  placa 
the  shells  in  a  saucepan,  cover  with  boiling  water,  and  cook  1  hour ; 


SOUPS,  Etc.  63 

then  drain  off  the  water  into  a  clean  sancepan,  return  to  the  fire, 
and  as  soon  as  boiling  add  1  cupful  young  carrots,  cut  in  julienne ; 
cook  15  minutes  ;  then  add  the  peas,  season  with  Yg  tablespoonful  of 
salt,  and  cook  30  minutes  ;  melt  1  tablespoonful  butter,  add  1  table- 
spoonful  flour,  stir  a  few  minutes  over  the  fire ;  add  it  to  the  soup, 
cook  a  few  minutes  longer ;  remove  from  fire,  add  1  tablespoonful 
fine-chopped  parsley,  and  serve.  If  handy,  add  a  few  tablespoonfuls 
of  cream.     Small  sponge  dumpling  may  be  boiled  in  the  soup. 

Bean  Soup. ‚Äî Soak  1  pint  white  beans  for  several  hours  in  cold 
water ;  then  drain  and  put  them  with  2  quarts  cold  water  over  the 
fire ;  wash  and  scald  in  boiling  water  Yg  pound  of  lean  salt  pork ; 
add  the  pork  to  the  beans ;  as  soon  as  it  boils,  add  Yg  cupful  fine- 
cut  soup  celery,  1  carrot,  and  2  onions;  cover  and  cook  till  the 
beans  are  tender;  then  strain  the  soup,  season  to  taste  with  salt, 
and  serve  with  small  pieces  of  toasted  bread.  This  soup  may  be 
served  without  being  strained,  as  some  prefer  to  have  the  beans 
whole  in  the  soup.  A  little  beef  extract  and  Ys  cup  cream  is 
always  an  improvement  to  this  kind  of  soup,  but  it  is  very  nice 
without  them. 

Tomato  Soup. ‚Äî Melt  Ys  tablespoonful  butter  in  a  saucepan ; 
add  2  tablespoonfuls  fine-chopped  onions,  the  same  of  carrots  and 
celery,  cook  6  minutes  without  browning ;  add  1  tablespoonful  flour, 
stir  for  a  few  minutes  ;  then  add  lYg  pint  boiling  water  and  1  can 
of  tomatoes ;  season  with  1  teaspoonf ul  salt,  Ys  teaspoonful  pepper, 
1  tablespoonful  sugar,  a  bouquet,  and  lYs  teaspoonful  beef  extract ; 
boil  30  minutes ;  then  strain  and  serve. 

Onion  Soup. ‚Äî Parboil  for  5  minutes  4  large  white  onions  ;  then 
remove  and  chop  them  fine,  add  1  tablespoonful  grated  carrot; 
place  them  in  a  saucepan  with  1  tablespoonful  drippings,  or  if  any 
fat  from  beefsteak  is  at  hand,  cut  it  into  small  pieces,  and  fry  it  with 
the  onions  and  carrot ;  cook  6  minutes,  stirring  constantly ;  add  1 
heaping  tablespoonful  flour,  stir  for  a  few  minutes ;  then  add  2  quarts 
boiling  water,  1  teaspoonful  salt,  Yg  teaspoonful  pepper,  and  1  table- 


64  SOUPS,  Etc. 

spoonful  liquid  beef  extract ;  cover  and  cook  30  minutes ;  then 
strain ;  if  necessary  add  more  salt  and  beef  extract ;  add  last  1 
tablespoonful  unsweetened  condensed  milk,  or  Yg  cupful  cream,  and 


FRUIT  AND  WINE  SOUPS. 

Apple  Soup,  No.  1. ‚Äî Pare  and  stew  8  fine  juicy  apples; 
squeeze  them  through  a  sieve,  sweeten  with  sugar,  add  1  quart  of 
water,  a  little  lemon  peel,  a  stick  of  cinnamon,  and  1  tablespoonful 
cornstarch ;  place  this  over  the  fire  again  and  boil  10  minutes ;  take 
cinnamon  and  lemon  peel  out  and  set  it  aside  to  cool.  In  the 
meantime  pare  and  core  4  large  apples,  cut  each  one  into  8  parts, 
drop  them  into  sugar  sirup,  and  boil  till  tender,  but  do  not  let  the 
pieces  break.  Take  them  out,  lay  in  the  tureen ;  strain  the  sirup, 
pour  it  with  the  soup  and  Yg  pint  white  wine  into  the  tureen  over 
the  apples,  and  serve  with  zwieback. 

Apple  Soup,  No.  2. ‚Äî Prepare  an  apple  sauce  of  8  or  10  apples ; 
add  6  cups  boiling  water;  strain  it  through  a  sieve,  sweeten  with 
sugar,  and  place  this  in  a  saucepan  over  the  fire ;  as  soon  as  it  boils, 
add  2  tablespoonfuls  sago,  a  few  slices  of  lemon  from  which  the 
seeds  have  been  removed,  and  boil  10  minutes.  Serve  with  zwie- 
back, or  boil  small  flour  or  sponge  dumplings  in  the  soup. 

Peach  Soup. ‚Äî Pare  and  quarter  5  large  peaches,  sprinkle  over 
some  sugar,  and  set  them  in  a  cool  place.  Pare  10  peaches  more ; 
remove  the  stones,  crack  them,  extract  the  kernels  and  scald  these 
with  boiling  water,  remove  the  brown  skin.  Press  the  peaches 
through  a  coarse  sieve ;  boil  ^4  pound  sugar  with  1  cup  of  water  for 
10  minutes ;  then  add  the  kernels,  the  pressed-peach  puree,  and  1 
bottle  of  Ehine  wine,  and  pour  this  soup  over  the  peaches  in  the 
tureen.     Serve,  when  cold,  with  zwieback. 

Cherry  Soup. ‚Äî Stone  Vg  pound  sour  cherries,  boil  them  5 
minutes  with  sugar  and  a  cup  of  water;  then  pour  them  in  a 
tureen  and  set  in  a  cool  place ;  pound  lYg  pound  cherries  with  the 


SOUPS,  Etc.  65 

stones  fine,  boil  with  2  quarts  water  and  ly^  cup  of  sugar  20  min- 
utes ;  strain  the  soup  through  a  fine  sieve,  and  let  it  get  cold ; 
shortly  before  serving  add  some  Ehine  wine,  and  pour  the  soup 
over  the  cherries  in  the  tureen.  The  soup  may  be  thickened  with 
cornstarch  or  zwieback,  if  liked. 

Currant  Soup. ‚Äî Remove  the  stems  from  2  pounds  of  large 
ripe  red  currants,  take  out  the  seeds  from  Y4  of  them  with  a  pointed 
toothpick ;  boil  5  minutes  with  Y^  cup  sugar  and  a  little  water ;  pour 
them  in  the  tureen,  and  set  in  a  cool  place.  The  remaining  currants 
place  in  a  saucepan  over  the  fire  with  2  quarts  water,  1  pound  sugar, 
and  boil  20  minutes.  Strain  the  soup  and  pour  it  with  Yg  bottle 
Rhine  wine  or  claret  over  the  currants,  and  serve  cold,  with  zwie- 
back. 

Grape  Soup. ‚Äî May  be  made  in  the  same  way  as  currant  soup. 

Raspberry  Soup. ‚Äî Take  Yg  pound  from  2  pounds  of  raspber- 
ries, sprinkle  sugar  over,  put  them  in  a  tureen,  and  place  in  a  cool 
place.  The  remaining  berries  put  in  a  porcelain  dish,  mash  them 
with  a  silver  spoon,  and  press  through  a  sieve ;  dissolve  Y4  pound 
sugar  in  1  quart  cold  water,  add  it  to  the  raspberry  puree  with  some 
Rhine  wine,  and  pour  this  over  the  raspberries  in  the  tureen.  Serve 
with  lady  fingers  or  macaroons. 

Gooseberry  Soup. ‚Äî Wash  and  stew  2  pounds  gooseberries  with 
2  quarts  water  and  1  pound  sugar ;  then  strain  through  a  sieve,  and 
put  over  the  fire  again ;  as  soon  as  the  soup  boils,  dissolve  2  table- 
spoonfuls  of  cornstarch  with  a  little  cold  water,  add  it  to  the  soup, 
and  boil  for  5  minutes ;  take  it  from  the  fire,  add  some  Rhine  wine, 
and  serve  with  zwieback.  Sponge  dumplings  may  be  boiled  in  the 
soup. 

Strawberry  Soup  (Kalte  Schale).‚Äî Take  Ys  pound  from  2 
pounds  of  strawberries,  wash  and  place  them  in  the  tureen,  sprinkle 
over  some  sugar,  and  set  them  in  a  cool  place.  (If  the  strawberries 
are  clean,  they  need  not  be  washed.)  Put  the  remaining  berries  in 
a  porcelain  dish,  and  mash  them  with  a  silver  spoon.     Dissolve  1 


66  SOUPS,  Etc. 

pound  sugar  in  3  pints  cold  water,  mix  it  with  the  mashed  berries, 
add  the  juice  of  1  lemon ;  strain  through  a  fine  sieve,  add  some 
Khine  wine  or  champagne,  and  pour  the  soup  over  the  berries  in  the 
tureen.     Serve  ice-cold  with  zwieback. 

Huckleberry  Soup. ‚Äî Wash  and  stew  1  quart  of  huckleberries 
with  1  quart  water,  2  large  zwiebacks,  4  tablespoonfuls  sugar,  a  stick 
of  cinnamon,  and  boil  20  minutes ;  strain  through  a  sieve,  add  some 
Port  wine  or  claret,  to  taste,  and  serve  with  zWieback ;  or  boil  sponge 
or  farina  dumplings  in  the  soup. 

Pineapple  Soup. ‚Äî Pare  1  large  ripe  pineapple,  cut  it  from  the 
top  down  into  6  pieces,  remove  the  thick  stem  from  the  center ;  cut 
the  6  pieces  into  fine  slices,  lay  them  in  the  tureen,  and  sprinkle 
sugar  over.  Chop  up  the  eyes  and  stems,  boil  them  Yg  hour,  with  3 
pints  of  water.  Strain  through  a  napkin,  and  put  this  liquor  with 
1  pound  sugar  over  the  fire ;  boil  a  few  minutes,  then  add  a  few 
lemon  slices,  without  the  pits,  Yg  bottle  Rhine  wine,  and  pour  the 
soup  over  the  pineapple  slices  in  the  tureen.     Serve  ice-cold. 

Lemon  Soup. ‚Äî Mix  3  tablespoonfuls  arrowroot  with  Ys  cup  of 
cold  water  ;  pour  this  into  1  quart  of  boiling  water ;  add  the  peel 
of  1  lemon,  5  tablespoonfuls  sugar,  and  boil  5  minutes ;  add  the 
juice  of  1  lemon  and  1  pint  of  white  wine.  Serve  ice-cold  with 
zwieback. 

Prune  Soup. ‚Äî Wash  and  stew  1  pound  dried  prunes  wdth 
lemon  peel,  a  piece  of  cinnamon,  and  sugar  until  done  ;  then  take 
Yg  of  the  prunes  and  put  them  in  the  tureen  ;  press  the  other  half 
through  a  sieve,  and  put  them  with  the  other  prunes  in  the  tureen. 
At  the  same  time  boil  Ys  pound  large  barley  in  water  without  salt 
till  tender,  which  takes  from  3  to  4  hours  ;  when  done  pour  it  into  a 
colander ;  drain  all  the  liquor  from  the  barley,  pour  some  more 
water  over  until  you  have  about  3  pints  of  barley  water,  add  1  cup 
of  Sherry  or  Madeira  wine  ;  pour  the  soup  over  the  boiled  prunes  in 
the  tureen.     If  not  sweet  enough  add  more  sugar.     The  wine  may 


SOUPS,  Etc.  -  6Y 

be  omitted  and  lemon  juice   used.      This  soup   is  excellent  for 
invalids. 

Wine  Soup. ‚Äî Wash  Yi  pound  sago,  boil  with  lYg  quart  of  water 
and  a  few  lemon  slices  without  the  pits  ;  add  a  piece  of  cinnamon 
and  sugar  to  taste.  As  soon  as  the  sago  is  done  take  it  from  the 
fire,  add  1  bottle  of  red  or  white  wine,  and  serve.  Instead  of  sago 
very  fine  barley  may  be  taken. 

Wine  Zwieback  Soup. ‚Äî Roll  8  large  zwiebacks  fine  ;  put  them 
with  1  quart  water  over  the  fire,  add  some  lemon  peel  and  boil  10 
minutes ;  pass  this  puree  through  a  colander,  thin  it  with  white 
wine,  and  sweeten  to  taste  with  sugar.     Serve  cold  with  zwieback. 

Wine  Cream  Soup. ‚Äî Place  1  quart  white  wine,  1  quart  water, 
1  tablespoonful  cornstarch,  the  yolks  of  6  eggs,  4  tablespoonfuls 
sugar,  juice  of  1  lemon,  also  the  rind,  in  a  saucepan ;  beat  this  with 
an  egg  beater  for  2  or  3  minutes,  then  put  the  saucepan  over  the 
fire ;  keep  on  beating  until  it  comes  to  the  boiling  point,  then 
remove  quickly,  as  it  must  not  boil ;  beat  the  whites  to  a  froth ; 
pour  the  soup  in  the  tureen  ;  form  with  a  teaspoon  small  snowballs 
from  the  beaten  whites,  and  put  them  in  the  soup  ;  sprinkle  some 
sugar  over  them  and  cover  the  tureen  up.  Set  it  in  a  cool  place, 
and  serve  ice-cold. 

BEER  AND  MILE  SOUPS. 

Soup  a  la  Biere. ‚Äî Put  2  pints  of  beer  in  a  saucepan,  add  1 
pint  water,  sugar  to  taste,  Yg  tablespoonful  cornstarch,  and  the 
yolks  of  4  eggs ;  beat  this  for  a  few  minutes,  then  place  over  the 
fire ;  beat  it  constantly  until  it  comes  to  a  boil ;  pour  it  in  the 
tureen,  add  1  pint  of  boiling  milk ;  have  the  whites  of  the  eggs 
beaten  to  a  stiff  froth  ;  lay  with  a  teaspoon  little  snowballs  on  top 
of  the  soup,  sprinkle  sugar  over  them  ;  cover  the  tureen  up,  and 
serve  either  hot  or  cold. 

Beer  Soup  a  la  Creme. ‚Äî Put  in  a  saucepan  1  quart  beer,  1 
quart  water,  1  tablespoonful  fiour  or  cornstarch,  sugar  to  taste,  the 


68  SOUPS,  Etc. 

peel  of  1  lemon,  a  piece  of  cinnamon,  and  4  whole  eggs ;  place  the 
saucepan  over  the  fire  ;  beat  constantly  with  an  egg  beater  until  it 
comes  to  a  boil ;  then  take  it  quickly  from  the  fire,  pour  the  soup  in 
the  tureen,  and  serve  with  little  square  pieces  of  toast. 

Milk  Soup  with  Snowballs.‚Äî Put  1  quart  milk  with  the 
yolks  of  4  eggs,  sugar  to  taste,  in  a  saucepan  over  the  fire ;  beat 
with  an  egg  beater  until  the  milk  comes  to  a  boil ;  then  remove 
quick  from  the  fire,  add  1  teaspoonful  vanilla  flavor  and  pour  into 
the  tureen ;  beat  the  whites  to  a  stiff  froth  and  lay  with  a  teaspoon 
small  snowballs  from  it  on  top  of  the  soup  ;  sprinkle  a  little  sugar 
over  them,  and  serve  either  warm  or  cold. 

Milk  Soup ‚Äî Plain. ‚Äî Let  2  quarts  milk  with  a  little  salt,  1 
teaspoonful  sugar,  come  to  a  boil ;  mix  4  tablespoonfuls  of  flour 
with  1  cup  of  milk,  pour  it  into  the  boiling  milk  ;  keep  stirring 
constantly ;  boil  2  minutes,  and  serve.  If  too  thick  add  a  little 
more  milk. 

Milk  Soup  with  Dumplings. ‚Äî Place  as  much  milk  as  is 
wanted  for  soup  over  the  fire  ;  add  a  little  salt,  a  sprinkle  of  sugar, 
small  piece  of  butter,  and  boil  small  bread  or  flour  dumplings  in  it ; 
and  then  serve,  to  be  eaten  hot. 

Milk  Soup  with  Oatmeal.‚Äî Place  1  cupful  oatmeal  with  cold 
water  and  a  little  salt  over  the  fire  ;  boil  slowly  until  done.  Then 
press  it  through  a  colander  and  thin  it  with  milk,  let  the  soup  boil 
up,  and  then  serve. 

Milk  Soup  with  Sago.‚Äî Put  2  quarts  with  V2  teaspoonful  of 
salt  and  the  same  of  sugar  in  a  saucepan  over  the  fire ;  as  soon  as 
the  milk  boils  have  Y4  pound  sago  washed,  add  it  to  the  boiling  milk, 
boil  till  done,  and  serve. 

Milk  Soup  with  Rice. ‚Äî Put  Y4  pound  of  rice  with  cold  water 
over  the  fire  ;  boil  it  a  few  minutes  ;  strain  in  a  sieve,  rinse  off  with 
cold  water ;  then  place  the  rice  in  a  saucepan  with  2  quarts  cold 
milk  over  the  fire  again ;  add  Y2  teaspoonful  salt,  1  teaspoonful 


SOUPS,  Etc.  69 

butter,  and  Vg  teaspoonful  of  sugar ;  boil  slowly  until  the  rice  is 
done,  but  not  broken,  and  serve. 

Milk  Soup  with  Farina.‚Äî Boil  2  quarts  milk;  add  Vg  tea- 
spoonful  salt,  the  same  of  sugar,  and  let  4  tablespoonfuls  of  farina 
run  slowly  into  the  boiling  milk,  and  boil  in  a  double  boiler  20 
minutes.  Serve  either  hot  or  cold.  In  summer  it  may  be  placed 
on  ice. 

Milk  Soup  with  Buckwheat  Grits.‚Äî Let  2  quarts  milk  come 
to  a  boil,  add  Yi  pound  buckwheat  grits,  a  little  salt,  Yg  teaspoon- 
ful sugar,  and  boil  15  minutes.     Serve  either  hot  or  cold. 

Milk  Soup  with  Egg  Crumbs.‚Äî Boil  2  quarts  of  milk  with 
Y2  tablespoonful  butter,  Y2  teaspoonful  salt,  sprinkle  in  1  cupful  egg 
crumbs  (which  are  made  of  nudle  paste ;  see  Nudles)  into  the  boil- 
ing milk  ;  boil  3  minutes,  and  then  serve. 

Milk  Soup  with  Nudles. ‚Äî Boil  2  quarts  of  milk,  add  a  little 
salt,  sugar,  and  butter ;  put  in  Y3  the  nudles  that  are  made  of  1  egg^ 
and  boil  from  10  to  15  minutes. 

Buttermilk  with  Barley. ‚Äî Place  a  saucepan  with  2  quarts 
buttermilk  and  1  cup  of  barley  over  the  fire  ;  boil  slowly  until  done, 
‚ñÝwhich  will  take  about  3  hours ;  frequent  stirring  is  necessary,  as  it 
burns  easily  (the  best  way  is  to  boil  it  in  a  double  boiler)  ;  if  it 
should  be  too  thick  add  more  buttermilk ;  serve  either  hot  or  cold 
with  sweet  milk.  Some  prefer  to  eat  it  with  sirup.  This  is  a 
national  dish  in  the  country  in  the  northern  part  of  Germany. 

Buttermilk  with  Rice. ‚Äî Place  2  quarts  buttermilk  with  1 
cup  well- washed  rice  in  a  saucepan ;  add  Ys  teaspoonful  salt,  and 
boil  till  the  rice  is  done.     Serve  with  sweet  milk. 

Buttermilk  Soup. ‚Äî Break  some  stale  rye  bread  or  pumper- 
nickel into  small  pieces,  1  pint  in  all ;  place  it  with  2  quarts 
buttermilk  in  a  saucepan  over  the  fire,  and  boil  1  hour ;  add  1  tea- 
spoonful aniseed,  and  sirup  or  sugar  enough  to  sweeten  it,  serve 
hot  or  cold.     Another  way  is  to  strain  the  soup,  and  shortly  before 


70  SOUPS,  Etc. 

serving  add  the  yolks  of  3  eggs.  The  aniseed  may  be  omitted  if 
not  liked.  Instead  of  bread,  a  tablespoonful  of  flour  may  be  taken 
to  each  quart  of  buttermilk ;  sweeten  with  sugar,  and  finish  with 
the  yolks  of  2  eggs. 

Buttermilk  Soup  with  Dumplings. ‚Äî Place  a  saucepan  with 
2  quarts  buttermilk  over  the  fire,  add  %  cup  of  sirup  ;  mix  the  yolks 
of  2  eggs  with  Yg  teaspoonful  salt,  add  ^g  cup  milk,  1  heaping  cup 
of  sifted  flour,  Yg  ounce  butter ;  mix  this  into  a  thick,  smooth  batter ; 
beat  the  whites  to  a  stiff  froth,  stir  them  lightly  through  the  batter ; 
as  soon  as  the  buttermilk  boils,  drop  small  portions  into  it  with  a 
teaspoon  and  boil  8  minutes  ;  then  serve. 

Chocolate  Soup. ‚Äî Grate  Y4  pound  of  chocolate,  place  it  in  a 
saucepan,  with  1  cup  of  water  ;  boil  5  minutes,  stirring  constantly  ; 
then  add  2  quarts  cold  milk,  the  yolks  of  4  eggs,  sugar  to  taste,  and 
beat  with  an  egg  beater  until  the  milk  comes  to  a  boil ;  then  take  it 
quickly  from  the  fire  and  pour  into  the  tureen.  Have  the  whites 
beaten  to  a  stiff  froth,  and  place  with  a  teaspoon  small  snowballs  in 
the  soup  ;  sprinkle  some  sugar  over  them  and  cover  the  tureen  for  a 
few  minutes ;  then  serve.     This  soup  may  be  served  ice-cold. 

Egg  Custard  for  Soup. ‚Äî Mix  4  eggs  with  4  tablespoonfuls 
water  and  4  of  milk,  little  salt,  and  nutmeg ;  pour  this  into  a  but- 
tered bowl,  set  the  bowl  in  a  saucepan  of  hot  water,  cover  and  boil 
until  firm  ;  then  remove  it  from  the  fire,  cut  with  a  teaspoon  small 
portions  and  drop  them  in  the  soup,  and  serve.  Another  way  is  to 
mix  4  eggs  with  a  teaspoonful  butter,  a  little  fine-chopped  parsley, 
nutmeg,  and  1  cup  of  bouillon,  and  finish  the  same  as  above. 

Soup  Biscuit. ‚Äî Mix  2  ounces  of  fiour  with  1  ounce  butter 
smoothly  together  on  a  plate ;  put  this  into  a  saucepan  with  1  cup 
of  boiling  milk,  stir  over  the  fire  until  formed  into  a  smooth  paste ; 
then  set  off  to  cool.  Stir  1  ounce  of  butter  to  a  cream,  add  alter- 
nately the  yolks  of  3  eggs  and  the  paste  ;  season  with  salt ;  add  the 
whites  beaten  to  a  stiff  froth  ;  mix  well  together.  Butter  and  flour 
a  long  tin  pan,  pour  the  mixture  into  it,  and  bake  20  minutes. 


SOUPS,  Etc.  71 

When  done,  turn  the  biscuit  out  of  pan,  cut  it  into  small  fine  slices, 
and  lay  them  in  the  tureen  with  some  boiling  consomme. 

Farina  Biscuit. ‚Äî Place  1  cup  milk,  with  1  tablespoonful  butter, 
over  the  fire,  add  gradually  y^  pound  farina,  stir  it  constantly  until 
the  whole  of  the  ingredients  are  thoroughly  mixed,  then  remove. 
When  cold,  mix  the  boiled  farina  with  the  yolks  of  4  eggs,  2  table- 
spoonfuls  grated  cheese,  a  little  salt,  and  the  whites  beaten  to  a 
froth.  Pour  the  mixture  into  a  well-buttered  and  floured  tin  pan, 
and  bake  20  minutes.  Shortly  before  serving  turn  the  biscuit  on  a 
long  plate  ;  cut  it  into  fine  slices,  lay  them  in  the  tureen,  pour  over 
clear  bouillon,  and  then  serve. 


Crumbs. ‚Äî Take  1  cup  flour,  1  egg,  1  tablespoonful  of 
water,  and  a  little  salt ;  work  this  into  a  stiff  dough,  lay  it  on  the 
pastry  board,  and  knead  it  well,  adding  as  much  flour  as  the  dough 
possibly  will  take  up.  Grate  the  dough  on  the  grater,  spread  the 
egg  crumbs  all  over  the  board  to  dry  for  a  half  hour,  then  boil  them 
from  3  to  5  minutes  in  3  quarts  of  bouillon  for  soup,  or  2  quarts 
milk  for  milk  soup.  If  not  all  used  at  one  time,  the  crumbs  may 
be  placed  in  a  box ;  they  will  keep  in  a  dry  place  for  some  time. 

Kaiser  Nockerls. ‚Äî Beat  up  the  yolks  of  3  eggs,  mix  them  with 
1  tablespoonful  flour,  1  cup  milk,  a  little  salt,  and  grated  nutmeg ; 
pour  this  mixture  into  a  tin  cup  or  kettle,  place  it  in  a  saucepan 
with  boiling  water,  and  boil  until  it  becomes  firm.  Shortly  before 
serving,  take  with  a  teaspoon  little  pieces  from  it,  and  lay  them  into 
the  prepared  soup. 


FORCEMEAT. 

Forcemeat  Border. ‚Äî Prepare  a  forcemeat  of  chicken,  game, 
fish,  or  veal,  put  it  into  a  buttered  border  mold ;  30  minutes  before 
serving,  place  the  mold  in  a  pan,  with  sufficient  water  to  reach  half 
way  up  the  form  ;  cover  with  buttered  paper,  and  bake  in  a  medium 
hot  oven  from  20  to  25  minutes.  When  ready  to  serve,  turn  the 
border  on  to  a  hot  dish,  put  a  ragout  or  salpicon  in  the  center,  and 
lay  on  top  the  border  some  fillets  of  game  or  chicken.  If  fish  is  to 
be  served  with  a  border,  take  fish  forcemeat,  oyster,  lobster,  or  crab 
ragout  in  center,  and  fillets  of  fish  on  top  the  border. 

Liver  Forcemeat,  No.  1. ‚Äî Procure  a  nice  calf's  liver,  remove 
skin  and  veins,  cut  the  liver  into  square  pieces,  place  in  a  saucepan, 
cover  with  boiling  water,  boil  5  minutes;  then  drain  in  a  sieve. 
Place  a  saucepan  with  Yg  pound  fine-cut  larding  pork  over  the  fire, 
fry  few  minutes ;  add  2  fine-chopped  onions,  cook  5  minutes ;  add 
the  liver,  a  bouquet,  Yg  tablespoonful  salt,  Yg  teaspoonful  pepper, 
stir  frequently,  and  cook  10  minutes ;  remove,  and  when  cold,  chop 
it  fine  or  grind  it  in  a  meat  grinder.  Boil  Y4  cup  of  water,  add  Y2 
ounce  butter,  Ys  cupful  flour,  stir  and  cook  till  it  forms  into  a  smooth 
paste ;  then  remove ;  put  the  fine-chopped  livers  in  a  wooden  chop- 
ping bowl,  and  pound  it  with  a  potato  masher ;  add  the  paste,  1 
whole  egg,  and  3  yolks ;  pound  all  the  ingredients  well  together, 
and  use  for  forcemeats,  balls,  borders,  and  for  stuffing  poultry, 
shoulder  or  breast  of  veal. 

Liver  Forcemeat,  No.  2. ‚Äî Soak  4  ounces  stale  bread  without 
the  rind  for  10  minutes  in  cold  water,  then  inclose  it  in  a  towel  and 
press  out  all  the  water ;  melt  2  ounces  butter  in  a  saucepan ;  add  2 

73 


FORCEMEAT.  '  Y3 

tablespoonf uls  fine-minced  onion,  cook  5  minutes  without  browning ; 
add  the  bread,  and  stir  till  it  forms  into  a  paste  and  loosens  itself 
from  bottom  of  saucepan ;  withdraw  from  fire  and  set  aside  to  cool. 
Eemove  the  skin  and  veins  from  1  pound  of  calf's  liver,  chop  very 
fine  ;  add  it  to  the  bread  ;  season  with  1  even  tablespoonf ul  salt,  1 
even  teaspoonful  pepper,  the  yolk  of  1  egg,  and  1  whole  egg. 

Teal  Forcemeat,  No.  1. ‚Äî Procure  1  pound  of  lean  veal  from 
the  leg,  grind  or  chop  it  very  fine,  mix  it  with  Yg  pound  fine-chopped 
suet  or  prepared  calf's  udder ;  put  in  a  wooden  chopping  bowl,  and 
pound  the  two  ingredients  well  together.  Boil  1  cupful  water  with 
1  ounce  butter,  add  %  cupful  flour,  stir  and  cook  till  it  forms  to  a 
paste,  then  remove ;  add  it  to  the  other  ingredients ;  also  1  whole 
and  the  yolks  of  2  eggs;  season  with  1  even  tablespoonful  salt, 
Ys  teaspoonful  nutmeg,  and  1  even  teaspoonful  white  pepper ; 
pound  all  together,  and  use  for  filling  poultry,  forcemeat  balls, 
and  dumplings. 

Teal  Forcemeat,  No.  2.‚Äî Chop  fine  1  pound  of  lean  veal  and 
4  ounces  larding  pork  or  suet.  Soak  4  ounces  of  2-days'-old  baker's 
bread  for  10  minutes  in  cold  water,  press  it  out  in  a  napkin.  Melt 
1  ounce  butter  in  a  saucepan,  add  1  fine-chopped  onion,  stir  and 
cook  5  minutes ;  then  add  the  bread,  stir  and  cook  5  minutes ;  re- 
move, and  when  cold,  add  it  to  the  meat  and  pork  or  suet ;  season 
with  1  teaspoonful  salt,  Ys  teaspoonful  pepper,  Y2  teaspoonful  thyme, 
and  2  eggs;  mix  all  well  together,  and  use  for  stuffing  poultry, 
shoulder  and  breast  of  veal,  or  for  other  purposes.  If  this  force- 
meat is  to  be  used  for  forcemeat  balls,  omit  the  thyme. 

Forcemeat  with  Fine  Herbs.‚Äî Place  a  saucepan  with  2 
tablespoonfuls  fine-chopped  onion  and  2  ounces  butter  over  the 
fire;  add  a  small  clove  of  bruised  garlic,  Y2  cupful  fine-chopped 
mushrooms,  1  teaspoonful  fine-chopped  parsley,  cook  5  minutes. 
Soak  4  ounces  bread,  without  the  rind,  in  cold  water,  inclose  it  in  a 
towel,  and  press  out  all  the  water ;  add  it  to  the  saucepan,  stir  until 
it  forms  into  a  smooth  paste ;  then  remove ;  when  cold  mix  it  with 


74  FORCEMEAT. 

4  ounces  fine-chopped  veal,  4  ounces  fine-chopped  fresh  pork ;  sea- 
son with  1  even  teaspoonful  salt,  Yg  even  teaspoonful  pepper,  add 
the  yolk  of  1  egg,  and  1  whole  egg.  In  place  of  veal,  some  pork 
chops  can  be  chopped  and  used  the  same  way. 

Forcemeat  a  I'Espagnole. ‚Äî Melt  1  ounce  butter  in  a  sauce- 
pan, add  2  tablespoonfuls  fine-chopped  onions,  cook  5  minutes  with- 
out browning;  add  1  cupful  tomatoes,  1  cupful  seedless  raisins,  1 
cupful  chopped  blanched  almonds,  6  fine-cut  olives,  2  tablespoon- 
fuls capers,  stir  and  cook  10  minutes ;  then  remove  from  fire,  and 
when  cold,  mix  it  with  Yg  pound  fine-chopped  veal,  and  Ys  pound 
sausage  meat,  3  fine-chopped  hard-boiled  eggs ;  season  with  1  tea- 
spoonful salt,  Ys  teaspoonful  pepper ;  mix  all  together,  and  use  for 
stuffing  turkey  and  chickens. 

Giblet  Forcemeat. ‚Äî Soak  Ys  pound  of  stale  baker's  bread, 
without  the  rind,  for  10  minutes  in  cold  water,  inclose  it  in  a  towel, 
and  press  out  all  the  water;  melt  2  ounces  butter  in  a  saucepan,  add 
1  fine-chopped  onion,  cook  5  minutes ;  then  add  it  to  the  bread ; 
season  with  1  even  teaspoonful  salt,  Yg  even  teaspoonful  pepper,  Y4 
teaspoonful  nutmeg,  Y2  teaspoonful  thyme ;  add  the  fine-chopped 
giblets  of  1  chicken,  and  1  egg ;  mix  all  together  and  use  for  stuff- 
ing chicken.  Turkey  giblets  are  prepared  the  same  way,  also 
pigeons  and  game. 

Oyster  Forcemeat. ‚Äî One  and  a  half  cupful  rolled  soda  crack- 
ers, 10  large  oysters,  chopped  fine,  Y2  pii^t  of  oyster  liquor,  the  yolk 
of  1  egg,  and  1  whole  egg ;  season  with  1  even  teaspoonful  salt,  Ys 
even  teaspoonful  pepper,  1  ounce  butter,  Ys  tablesjsoonful  fine- 
chopped  parsley ;  mix  all  together,  and  use  for  filling  poultry  and  fish. 

Cliestnut  Forcemeat. ‚Äî Place  a  saucepan  with  1  tablespoonful 
fine-chopped  onion  and  2  ounces  butter  over  the  fire,  cook  5  min- 
utes, without  browning ;  add  6  ounces  fine-chopped  fresh  pork, 
from  the  loin ;  add  12  fine-chopped  mushrooms,  12  finely  pounded 
cooked  chestnuts,  stir  and  cook  5  minutes  longer ;  remove  from  the 
fire ;  season  with  1  teaspoonful  salt,  Ys  teaspoonful  pepper,  and  Ya 


FORCEMEAT.  75 

pound  whole-peeled  and  cooked  chestnuts,  3  tablespoonfuls  of  bread 
crumbs,  mix  all  together,  and  use  for  stuflBng  poultry.  Another 
way  is  to  boil  1  pound  of  peeled  chestnuts  in  milk  till  tender,  then 
pound  them  fine,  and  mix  with  2  ounces  butter,  little  salt  and  pep- 
per, and  use  for  stuffing ;  or  mix  with  this  puree  4  ounces  sausage 
meat  and  1  ounce  of  butter. 

Forcemeat  with  Almonds. ‚Äî Half  pound  fine-minced  chicken 
or  veal  meat,  2  ounces  minced  larding  pork,  1  whole  egg  and  1 
yolk,  1  tablespoonful  butter,  stirred  to  a  cream ;  2  ounces  bread 
soaked  in  milk  and  pressed  out,  4  tablespoonfuls  fine-minced  al- 
monds, a  little  nutmeg,  salt  and  pepper  to  taste ;  work  the  whole 
well  together,  and  use  for  filling  poultry  or  birds.  In  place  of  al- 
monds, chestnuts  may  be  taken. 

American  Forcemeat. ‚Äî Fry  2  fine-chopped  onions  in  2  ounces 
butter  ;  add  to  this  the  crumbs  of  a  loaf  of  bread,  previously  soaked 
in  cold  water,  and  pressed  out ;  stir  for  five  minutes  over  the  fire ; 
then  set  it  off  to  cool.  Mix  it  with  salt  and  pepper  to  taste,  2  eggs, 
2  teaspoonfuls  of  sage,  a  little  nutmeg,  and  Yg  pound  sausage  meat. 
A  plainer  dressing  is  2  cups  bread  crumbs,  1  tablespoonful  butter, 
a  little  salt  and  pepper  ;  if  seasoning  is  liked,  add  some  thyme,  sage, 
or  mayron. 

Sausage  Forcemeat. ‚Äî Soak  Yg  pound  of  stale  baker's  bread 
for  10  minutes  in  cold  water,  then  inclose  it  in  a  napkin,  and  press 
out  all  the  water.  Place  a  saucepan  with  1  ounce  butter  over  the 
fire,  add  Ys  cupful  fine-chopped  onion,  cook  5  minutes  without 
browning ;  then  add  the  bread,  stir,  and  cook  5  minutes ;  remove, 
and  when  cold,  mix  it  with  1  pound  of  sausage  meat ;  season  with  1 
even  teaspoonful  salt,  Ys  even  teaspoonful  pepper,  Ys  teaspoonful 
thyme,  add  the  yolks  of  2  eggs  or  1  whole  egg ;  mix  all  together, 
and  use  for  filling  poultry,  shoulder  of  lamb,  spare  ribs,  fresh 
roasted  ham,  and  shoulder  or  breast  of  veal. 

Fine  Fish  Forcemeat. ‚Äî Chop  fine  1  pound  of  fish  meat, 
either  from  halibut,  weakfish,  or  fresh   codfish ;    mix.  it.  with.  5 


76  FORCEMEAT. 

ounces  panada  of  pate  a  chou,  4  ounces  butter,  the  yolks  of  3  eggs, 
and  1  whole  egg ;  season  with  salt,  pepper,  and  nutmeg ;  mix  all 
together,  and  place  it  for  1  hour  on  ice ;  then  use  for  filling  fish, 
or  for  small  dumplings  for  ragouts,  or  for  garnishing. 

Plain  Fish  Forcemeat. ‚Äî Soak  2  ounces  stale  bread  without 
the  rind  10  minutes  in  cold  water,  inclose  it  in  a  towel  and  press  out 
all  the  water.  Place  a  small  saucepan  with  1  tablespoonful  butter 
over  the  fire  ;  add  2  tablespoonfuls  fine-chopped  onion,  cook  5  min- 
utes without  browning  ;  then  add  the  bread,  stir  until  it  forms  into 
a  smooth  paste  ;  then  remove  ;  when  cold  mix  with  Yg  pound  fine- 
chopped  fish  meat,  season  with  salt  and  pepper,  and  a  little  thyme, 
the  yolk  of  1  egg,  and  1  whole  egg ;  use  it  for  filling  fish. 

French  Fish  Forcemeat. ‚Äî With  an  egg  beater  beat  4  eggs 
very  light,  add  a  little  salt,  and  4  tablespoonfuls  water ;  then  beat 
again  for  a  few  minutes.  Place  a  frying  pan  over  the  fire  with  Yg 
tablespoonful  butter ;  when  hot  pour  in  the  beaten  eggs,  stir  slowly 
until  they  are  thick ;  remove  them  from  the  fire,  and  mix  with  Y2 
pound  fine-minced  fish  meat,  1  cup  bread  crumbs,  1  whole  egg,  2 
ounces  of  butter,  stirred  to  a  cream ;  salt  and  pepper  to  taste ;  a 
little  nutmeg  or  thyme  may  be  added  if  liked  ;  use  for  filling  fish 
and  small  dumplings.  In  place  of  fish,  sausage  meat,  veal,  or 
chicken  meat  may  be  used. 

Corn  Filling. ‚Äî Soak  4  ounces  stale  baker's  bread  for  10  minutes 
in  cold  water,  then  inclose  it  in  a  napkin  and  press  out  all  the 
water.  Place  a  saucepan  with  4  ounces  fine-chopped  suet  over  the 
fire ;  add  Y2  giU  fine-chopped  onion,  cook  5  minutes  without  brown- 
ing ;  season  with  1  teaspoonf  ul  salt  and  Y*  teaspoonf  ul  pepper ; 
add  the  bread,  stir  and  cook  5  minutes ;  then  remove.  Cut  the 
corn  from  the  cob  of  three  large  ears  of  fresh  corn,  or  take  Y2  can 
of  canned  corn  ;  when  the  bread  is  cooled  off,  mix  it  with  the  corn 
and  2  well-beaten  eggs.  This  dressing  is  excellent  for  shoulder  or 
breast  of  veal,  lamb,  or  chicken. 


FORCEMEAT.  77 

Tomato  Forcemeat. ‚Äî Melt  2  ounces  butter  in  a  saucepan,  add 
Y2  cupful  fine-chopped  onion,  cook  5  minutes  without  browning ; 
drain  off  the  liquid  from  1  can  of  tomatoes,  add  the  tomatoes  to 
the  onion  ;  season  with  1  teaspoonful  salt,  Yg  teaspoonf ul  pepper,  1 
tablespoonful  sugar,  cook  fifteen  minutes  ;  remove  and  set  aside  to 
cool.  Rub  4  ounces  stale  bread  without  the  crust  into  crumbs,  put 
it  on  a  tin  pan,  set  it  for  10  minutes  in  the  oven  to  dry ;  then  re- 
move, and  when  cold  mix  it  with  the  tomatoes,  1  egg,  and  4  ounces 
sausage  meat,  and  use  for  stuffing  fish. 

Game  Forcemeat. ‚Äî Place  4  ounces  fine-cut  larding  pork  in  a 
saucepan  over  the  fire,  fry  a  few  minutes  ;  then  add  Yg  pound  fine- 
cut  game  meat,  either  of  venison,  the  fillet  of  hare,  rabbits,  par- 
tridges, or  prairie  hens ;  add  1  gill  of  fine-chopped  onion,  a  bouquet, 
Ys  teaspoonful  salt,  Y4  teaspoonful  pepper,  and  Ys  teaspoonful  nut- 
meg ;  stir  frequently,  and  cook  10  minutes ;  then  remove.  When 
cold,  add  4  ounces  raw  game  meat,  remove  the  bouquet,  chop  all 
the  ingredients  very  fine.  Boil  Ys  cupful  water  with  1  teaspoonful 
butter  in  a  small  saucepan ;  add  Ys  cupful  flour,  stir  and  cook  till  it 
forms  a  paste  ;  then  remove  ;  add  it  to  the  forcemeat,  with  1  whole 
egg  and  two  yolks,  pound  the  whole  very  fine,  and,  if  necessary, 
add  more  salt  or  pepper. 

Fine  Chicken  Forcemeat. ‚Äî See  Chicken. 

Lohster  Forcemeat. ‚Äî See  Lobster. 

Crab  Forcemeat.‚Äî See  Crab. 

Clam  Forcemeat. ‚Äî See  Clams. 


FORCEMEAT  BALLS  AND  DUMPLINGS. 

Beef  Forcemeat  Balls. ‚Äî Chop  fine  or  grind  in  a  meat  grind- 
er Yg  pound  lean  beef,  season  with  1  even  teaspoonful  salt,  '/g  tea- 
spoonful  pepper,  Yg  teaspoonful  grated  nutmeg.  Soak  2  slices  of 
stale  bread,  without  the  rind,  in  cold  water  till  soft,  press  out  in  a 
towel  and  measure  it ;  there  should  be  Ys  pint.  Place  a  saucepan 
with  1  tablespoonful  butter  over  the  fire,  add  1  tablespoonful  of 
very  finely  chopped  onion,  cook  5  minutes  without  browning ; 
then  add  the  soaked  bread,  stir  6  minutes  over  the  fire ;  when 
cold  mix  the  meat  and  bread  together,  add  the  yolk  of  2  eggs,  and 
the  beaten  white  of  1  egg ;  when  well  mixed,  form  with  the  hands 
into  small  balls,  like  a  hickory  nut ;  wet  the  hands  a  little  at  times 
with  cold  water,  so  as  to  roll  the  balls  perfectly  smooth  ;  then  drop 
them  on  a  plate,  dust  with  flour ;  drop  the  balls  into  the  boiling 
soup,  cook  8  minutes,  or  boil  them  in  salted  water ;  take  them  out 
with  a  skimmer,  lay  them  in  the  tureen,  and  pour  the  strained  soup 
over.    These  meat  balls  are  also  very  nice  boiled  in  chicken  fricassee. 

Forcemeat  Balls  of  Sausage  Meat.‚Äî Take  Ya  pound  of 
sausage  meat,  1  cup  of  bread  previously  soaked  in  cold  water  and 
pressed  dry,  1  egg,  some  salt,  pepper,  and  a  little  ground  mace  ;  mix 
these  ingredients  well  together  with  a  wooden  spoon.  Dust  some 
flour  on  a  pastry  board,  take  a  tablespoonful  of  the  forcemeat,  roll  it 
into  a  long  roll  a  finger  thick,  continue  until  all  the  forcemeat  is 
formed  into  rolls ;  cut  each  roll  into  pieces  the  size  of  a  marble, 
roll  these  with  the  help  of  some  flour  into  little  round  balls,  put 
them  on  a  plate,  dust  flour  over  them,  shake  the  plate  so  that  they 
cover  themselves  with  flour.  After  all  are  prepared  in  this  way 
boil  them  in  the  soup  for  ten  minutes,  or  in  boiling  salted  water. 

78 


FORCEMEAT  BALLS  AND  DUMPLINGS.  79 

Liver  Dumplings. ‚Äî Place  a  saucepan  with  1  tablespoonful 
butter  over  the  fire,  add  2  tablespoonfuls  fine-chopped  onion,  a 
small  piece  of  bruised  garlic  the  size  of  a  coffee  bean  ;  cook  5  min- 
utes without  browning ;  soak  Y2  loaf  of  2-days'-old  baker's  bread, 
without  the  rind,  in  cold  water,  inclose  in  a  towel  and  press  out  all 
the  water ;  add  it  to  the  saucepan,  stir  and  cook  5  minutes ;  then 
remove  ;  when  cold  add  Y2  pound  fine-chopped  calf's  or  lamb's  liver 
and  2  whole  eggs ;  season  with  1  teaspoonful  salt,  Y2  teaspoonful 
pepper,  Y4  teaspoonful  thyme,  a  little  marjoram,  and  mix  all  well 
together ;  then  cut  with  a  tablespoon  small  portions  from  the  mix- 
ture, drop  it  into  salted  boiling  water ;  cook  ten  minutes ;  then 
remove  the  dumplings  carefully  with  a  skimmer ;  serve  with  sauer- 
kraut, or  any  other  vegetable. 

Liver  Dumplings  for  Soup. ‚Äî One  half  cupful  fine-cut  calf's 
or  lamb's  liver,  Y2  cupful  grated  bread  crumbs,  1  ounce  butter,  small 
grated  onion,  Y2  teaspoonful  salt.  Yd  teaspoonful  pepper,  the  yolk  of 
1  egg,  and  the  white  beaten  to  a  stiff  froth.  Mix  the  liver,  bread 
crumbs,  salt,  and  pepper  together  ;  add  the  onion,  the  melted  butter, 
the  yolk,  and  last  the  beaten  white.  Cut  with  a  teaspoon  small 
portions  from  the  preparation  and  drop  into  boiling  soup ;  boil 
6  minutes ;  then  serve.  Or  boil  the  dumplings  in  boiling  salted 
water,  and  lay  them  in  the  soup. 

Liver  Balls. ‚Äî Stir  3  ounces  of  butter  to  a  cream ;  add  by  de- 
grees 3  eggs,  3  ounces  bread  crumbs,  Y2  pound  fine-minced  or 
scraped  calf's  liver,  some  salt  and  pepper,  and,  if  liked,  a  little 
grated  onion.  When  well  mixed,  cut  with  a  teaspoon  small  portions 
from  this,  drop  them  into  the  soup  ;  boil  from  8  to  10  minutes  ;  or 
mold  them  into  little  round  balls. 

Liver  a  la  Royal. ‚Äî Eemove  the  skin  and  tough  parts  from  Y2 
pound  of  calf's  liver  or  of  poultry  liver ;  chop  it  fine  ;  put  it  in  a 
saucepan  with  1  ounce  butter  and  1  fine-chopped  onion,  and  cook 
slowly  10  minutes ;  add  IY2  cup  bouillon,  boil  Y2  hour ;  press 
through  a  sieve ;  mix  with  the  yolks  of  4  eggs,  a  little  salt,  and 


80  FORCEMEAT  BALLS  AND  DUMPLINGS. 

pepper  ;  then  place  it  in  a  double  boiler,  and  boil  until  firm.  Short- 
ly before  serving  cut  it  into  fine  slices  and  lay  them  in  the  prepared 
soup.     A  Royal  of  Calf's  Brain  is  made  the  same  way. 

Dumplings  with  Prepared  Flour.‚Äî Mix  together  1  cup  of 
prepared  flour,  Yg  teaspoonful  butter,  1  egg,  3  tablespoonf uls  water  ; 
form  with  a  tablespoon  small  dumplings,  drop  them  into  boiling 
salted  water,  cover,  and  cook  6  minutes ;  instantly  remove  with  a 
skimmer  and  serve.  This  will  make  9  dumplings.  They  may  be 
boiled  in  fricassees  or  stews. 

Flour  Dumplings. ‚Äî Stir  2  ounces  butter  to  a  cream,  add  grad- 
ually the  yolks  of  2  eggs,  Yg  teaspoonful  salt ;  then  add  alternately 
IY2  even  cup  flour  and  Y2  cup  of  milk,  and  last  the  beaten  whites. 
Form  with  a  tablespoon  dumplings  the  size  of  an  egg,  drop  them 
into  boiling  salted  water;  cover  and  boil  from  6  to  8  minutes  or 
until  done  (which  may  be  ascertained  by  cutting  one  through  the 
center ;  if  dry,  it  is  done ;  if  not,  the  boiling  must  be  continued  a 
little  longer).  These  dumplings  are  served  with  roasted  meat ;  if 
wanted  for  soup  they  are  formed  with  a  teaspoon. 

Thuringer  Dumplings. ‚Äî Place  a  saucepan  with  3  large  peeled 
potatoes  over  the  fire  ;  cover  with  1  pint  of  cold  water ;  add  Y2  table- 
spoonful  salt,  and  boil  till  tender ;  drain  off  the  water  and  mash 
them  fine.  At  the  same  time  grate  3  large  peeled  and  well- washed 
raw  potatoes,  drain  off  some  of  the  water;  add  them  to  the  hot 
mashed  potatoes ;  season  with  Ys  teaspoonful  salt ;  mix  well  to- 
gether ;  add  the  yolks  of  2  eggs,  3  tablespoonf  uls  grated  bread 
crumbs,  and  the  beaten  whites.  Form  this  into  balls  the  size  of  an 
egg,  drop  them  into  a  large  saucepan  of  boiling  salted  water,  boil  15 
minutes ;  remove  with  a  skimmer,  and  serve. 

Potato  Dumplings  of  Raw  Potatoes. ‚Äî Peel,  wash,  and 
grate  6  large  potatoes,  dip  off  some  of  the  black  water,  then  meas- 
ure them  for  1  pint  grated  potatoes  ;  add  the  yolk  of  2  eggs,  2  table- 
spoonfuls  prepared  flour  (or  Y2  cupful  grated  bread  crumbs),  1  tea- 
spoonful salt,  and  the  beaten  whites ;  cut  with  a  tablespoon  portions 


FORCEMEAT  BALLS  AND  DUMPLINGS.  81 

the  size  of  an  egg  from  this ;  drop  them  into  boiling  salted  water, 
and  boil  15  minutes ;  then  remove  with  a  skimmer,  and  serve. 
Another  way  is  to  fry  1  cupful  small  dice-shaped  pieces  of  bread  in 
2  ounces  fine-cut  larding  pork,  and  mix  them  with  the  potatoes. 

Potato  Balls  for  Soup. ‚Äî Stir  2  ounces  of  butter  to  a  cream, 
add  by  degrees  the  yolks  of  3  eggs,  4  ounces  boiled  and  grated 
potatoes,  1  tablespoonf ul  farina,  1  teaspoonf ul  fine-chopped  parsley ; 
season  with  salt,  Y4  teaspoonful  white  pepper,  and  last  the  whites 
beaten  to  a  stiff  froth.  Form  this  preparation  into  small  balls  the 
size  of  a  pigeon's  egg,  give  them  an  oblong  shape ;  roll  in  flour  and 
boil  in  boiling  salted  water  8  minutes.  Kemove  carefully,  lay  them 
in  the  soup,  and  serve. 

Cream  Dumplings  for  Soup. ‚Äî Mix  2  tablespoonfuls  of  thick 
sour  cream  with  the  yolks  of  2  eggs ;  add  1  cup  of  sifted  flour,  a 
little  salt ;  when  this  is  well  worked  together,  add  the  white  of  the 
eggs  previously  beaten  to  a  froth ;  shape  into  small  dumplings  with 
a  teaspoon ;  boil  5  minutes  in  the  soup. 


SMALL  DUMPLINGS  FOR  FRUIT  AND  WINE 
SOUPS. 

Zwieback  Dumplings. ‚Äî Stir  2  ounces  butter  to  a  cream ;  add 
the  yolks  of  2  eggs,  2  cupfuls  rolled  zwieback  crumbs,  2  tablespoon- 
fuls  milk,  1  teaspoonf ul  sugar  ;  let  this  stand  1  hour ;  then  add  the 
2  beaten  whites ;  cut  with  a  teaspoon  small  portions  from  this  mix- 
ture and  boil  them  6  minutes  in  wine  or  fruit  soup.  If  these  dump- 
lings are  to  be  boiled  in  meat  soups,  leave  out  the  sugar. 

Rice-flour  Dumplings. ‚Äî Set  a  saucepan  with  Vs  cup  milk  and 
1  ounce  butter  over  the  fire ;  as  soon  as  it  boils  add  2  ounces  of  rice 
flour,  stir  until  it  forms  into  a  smooth  paste  and  loosens  itself  from 
the  bottom  of  saucepan  ;  then  remove,  turn  the  paste  into  a  bowl ; 
when  nearly  cold  add  by  degrees  the  yolks  of  2  eggs,  1  tablespoon- 
ful  sugar ;  last  the  beaten  whites  of  the  2  eggs ;  cut  with  a  tea- 
spoon small  portions  from  this  mixture ;  drop  them  into  fruit  or 
wine  soups,  and  boil  6  minutes.  The  best  way  is  to  boil  1  dumpling; 
if  too  soft  add  a  little  dry  farina,  and  if  too  firm,  a  little  milk. 

Apple  Balls  for  Fruit  Soup.‚Äî Peel  and  core  4  large  greening 
apples,  place  them  in  a  pan,  and  bake  in  a  medium  hot  oven  ;  when 
done  press  the  apples  through  a  sieve ;  add  the  yolks  of  3  eggs,  IV2 
cup  grated  bread  crumbs,  Y2  tablespoonful  butter,  2  teaspoonfuls 
sugar,  1  tablespoonful  fine-cut  citron,  Y4  teaspoonful  cinnamon; 
mix  all  well  together  ;  let  it  stand  1  hour,  then  beat  the  3  whites  to 
a  stiff  froth,  add  them  to  the  mixture  ;  shape  into  small  balls  either 
with  a  teaspoon  or  the  hands,  and  boil  in  fruit  soups.  In  place  of 
apples  any  kind  of  fruit  may  be  taken. 


SMALL  DUMPLINGS  FOR  FRUIT  AND  WINE  SOUPS.        83 

Farina  Dumplings  for  Soup. ‚Äî Place  a  small  saucepan  with 
Ys  cupful  milk  over  the  fire ;  add  Y2  tablespoonf ul  butter ;  as  soon 
as  it  boils  add  3  tablespoonf uls  farina,  stir  and  cook  till  it  forms 
into  a  smooth  paste  and  loosens  from  bottom  of  saucepan.  Eemove 
from  the  fire,  turn  the  paste  into  a  bowl,  and  when  nearly  cold  mix 
it  with  the  yolks  of  2  eggs  ;  season  with  Y4  teaspoonful  salt,  Y4  tea- 
spoonful  nutmeg,  add  last  the  whites  beaten  to  a  stiff  froth ;  mix 
all  well  together ;  take  with  a  teaspoon  small  portions  from  this, 
drop  them  into  boiling  salted  water,  boil  five  minutes ;  then  care- 
fully remove  the  dumplings  with  a  skimmer,  lay  them  in  the  tureen 
and  pour  the  soup  over  them. 

Sponge  Dumplings  for  Soup. ‚Äî Place  a  small  saucepan  with 
Y2  cupful  milk  and  1  ounce  butter  over  the  fire ;  when  it  begins  to  boil 
add  Y2  cupful  flour,  stir  and  cook  till  it  forms  into  a  smooth  paste  ; 
then  remove,  and  when  nearly  cold  add  the  yolk  of  2  eggs,  Y4  tea- 
spoonful  salt,  and  nutmeg ;  add  last  the  2  whites  beaten  to  a  stiff 
froth  ;  stir  until  perfectly  smooth  ;  then  cut  with  a  teaspoon  small 
portions  from  this  mixture,  drop  them  into  boiling  salted  water, 
boil  6  minutes ;  remove  them  with  a  skimmer,  lay  in  the  tureen, 
and  pour  the  soup  over ;  1  teaspoonful  fine-chopped  parsley  may 
be  added  to  the  mixture  if  handy. 

Sponge  Dumplings  with  Cheese.‚Äî One  cup  milk,  1  ounce 

butter,  1  cup  flour,  2  whole  eggs  and  2  yolks,  2  tablespoonfuls  of 
grated  Parmesan  cheese,  little  salt,  and  nutmeg.  Place  the  milk 
and  butter  in  a  saucepan  over  the  fire ;  add  flour  as  soon  as  it  boils ; 
keep  stirring  until  formed  to  a  smooth  paste  and  loosening  itself 
from  bottom  of  saucepan  ;  then  put  the  paste  into  a  dish,  mix  with 
the  yolks,  salt,  and  nutmeg.  When  cooled  off,  add  the  cheese  and 
the  whipped  whites  of  the  2  eggs ;  mix  well ;  take  a  small  portion 
with  a  spoon  and  drop  into  boiling  water  (if  too  soft,  add  a  little 
dry  farina).  Shortly  before  serving  drop  with  a  tablespoon  small 
oblong  dumplings  into  the  soup,  and  boil  about  8  minutes. 


84        SMALL  DUMPLINGS  FOR  FRUIT  AND  WINE  SOUPS. 

Sponge  Dumplings  for  Fricassees. ‚Äî Four  ounces  butter,  4 
ounces  flour,  Y2  pint  of  milk,  4  eggs,  little  salt,  and  nutmeg.  Place 
a  soupplate  over  a  saucepan  in  which  there  is  some  hot  water ;  put 
half  of  the  butter  with  the  flour  into  the  plate  ;  mix  well  together. 
Pour  the  milk  in  another  saucepan ;  as  soon  as  it  boils,  add  the 
mixed  flour  and  butter,  stirring  constantly  until  it  becomes  a  smooth 
paste  and  loosens  itself  from  bottom  of  saucepan ;  then  put  the 
paste  into  a  dish,  and  set  it  aside  to  cool.  Stir  the  remaining  butter 
to  a  cream,  add  by  degrees  4  yolks,  the  salt,  nutmeg,  and  the  paste. 
When  the  whole  is  well  blended,  add  1  tablespoonful  dry  farina 
and  the  whites  beaten  to  a  stiff  froth ;  form  with  a  tablespoon  into 
small  oblong  dumplings,  drop  into  boiling  salted  water,  boil  8  min- 
utes ;  remove  them  with  a  skimmer,  lay  in  a  hot  dish.  Fry  Yg 
cupful  grated  bread  crumbs  in  1  ounce  butter  light  brown,  pour 
them  over  the  dumplings,  and  serve  with  fricassees,  ragouts,  or 
stews. 

Bread  Dumplings. ‚Äî Stir  2  ounces  of  butter  to  a  cream ;  add 
by  degrees  2  eggs,  little  salt,  nutmeg,  ^j^  teaspoonf  ul  sugar,  and  1 
cup  of  grated  bread  crumbs ;  when  well  mixed,  let  it  stand  1  hour. 
Shortly  before  serving  form  into  balls,  like  a  pigeon's  egg^  and  boil 
6  minutes  in  the  soup.  Another  way  is  to  soak  4  ounces  bread 
without  the  rind  for  10  minutes  in  cold  water,  press  out,  and  place 
it  in  a  saucepan  with  1  tablespoonful  butter  or  drippings,  stir- 
ring constantly  for  5  minutes ;  then  take  it  from  the  fire,  put  into  a 
dish  ;  when  cooled  off,  mix  it  with  the  yolks  of  2  eggs,  a  little  salt 
and  nutmeg,  lastly  the  beaten  whites  of  2  eggs ;  shape  into  small 
oblong  dumplings  with  a  teaspoon,  and  boil  6  minutes  in  the  soup 
or  in  salted  water. 

Chicken  Forcemeat  Balls. ‚Äî Soak  2  ounces  stale  baker's  bread 
without  the  rind  in  cold  water  for  10  minutes,  inclose  it  in  a  towel, 
and  press  out  all  the  water ;  melt  1  ounce  butter  in  a  saucepan,  add 
the  bread,  stir  and  cook  5  minutes ;  transfer  it  to  a  wooden  bowl ; 
when  cold,  add  the  fine-chopped  breast  of  a  young  chicken,  pound 


SMALL  DUMPLINGS  FOR  FRUIT  AND  WINE  SOUPS.        85 

the  two  with  a  potato  masher  into  a  paste  ;  add  the  yolks  of  2  eggs ; 
season  with  1  teaspoonful  salt,  Y4  teaspoonf ul  white  pepper,  Y4  tea- 
spoonful  nutmeg,  add  last  the  2  whites  beaten  to  a  stifE  froth  ;  form 
the  preparation  into  small  round  balls  the  size  of  a  walnut  (moisten 
the  hands  with  cold  water  while  rolling  the  forcemeat  balls)  ;  drop 
them  into  boiling  salted  water,  boil  6  minutes ;  remove  them  care- 
fully with  a  skimmer,  and  use  as  directed  in  various  recipes. 

Fine  Chicken  Forcemeat  Dumplings. ‚Äî Remove  the  breast 
from  a  young  chicken ;  chop  it  fine ;  put  it  in  a  chopping  bowl, 
and  pound  it  fine  with  a  potato  masher.  Place  a  saucepan  with  Yg 
cupful  boiling  water  over  the  fire  ;  add  1  ounce  butter  and  Yg  cup- 
ful flour ;  stir  until  it  forms  into  a  smooth  paste  and  loosens  itself 
from  bottom  of  saucepan ;  then  remove ;  add  it  to  the  chicken 
meat ;  add  1  ounce  butter,  1  teaspoonful  dry  farina,  Y2  teaspoonful 
nutmeg,  Y*  teaspoonful  white  pepper  and  1  teaspoonful  salt,  1  whole 
egg  and  the  yolks  of  2  ;  pound  the  whole  into  a  fine  smooth  paste ; 
form  with  2  teaspoons  small  dumplings  from  this  mixture ;  drop 
them  into  boiling  water  in  a  low  saucepan ;  let  simmer  6  minutes ; 
then  carefully  remove  them  with  a  skimmer,  and  serve  as  directed 
in  various  recipes.  One  teaspoonful  grated  onion  may  be  added,  or 
1  teaspoonful  chopped  parsley  if  liked. 

Teal  Forcemeat  Balls  a  la  Fran^aise. ‚Äî Mince  very  fine  4 
ounces  of  veal  and  2  ounces  of  suet ;  season  with  Y2  even  teaspoonful 
salt,  Y4  even  teaspoonful  pepper,  1  teaspoonful  fine-chopped  parsley, 
Y4  teaspoonful  nutmeg,  2  scrambled  eggs,  1  raw  egg,  and  Y2  cupful 
grated  bread  crumbs  ;  mix  well  together,  and  form  with  the  hands 
into  small  balls  ;  finish  the  same  as  in  foregoing  recipe.  Forcemeat 
balls  of  chicken,  game,  beef,  and  fresh  pork  may  be  prepared  in  the 
same  way. 

Teal  Forcemeat  Balls. ‚Äî Place  a  saucepan  with  Y2  cupful  water 
and  1  ounce  butter  over  the  fire ;  as  soon  as  it  boils,  add  Y2  cupful 
flour,  stir  until  it  forms  into  a  smooth  paste ;  then  remove ;  when 
cold,  add  Y2  pound  fine-chopped  veal,  4  ounces  fine-chopped  veal 


86         SMALL  DUMPLINGS  FOR  FRUIT  AND  WINE  SOUPS. 

fat  or  suet;  pound  this  together  in  a  chopping  bowl  with  a  potato 
masher ;  add  the  yolks  of  2  eggs  and  1  whole  egg,  1  even  teaspoon- 
f ul  salt,  74  teaspoonf ul  white  pepper,  and  the  same  of  nutmeg ;  form 
this  into  small  balls  the  size  of  a  hickory  nut,  and  drop  them  into 
salted  boiling  water,  cook  6  minutes ;  then  remove,  and  use  as  di- 
rected in  other  recipes  for  soups  or  ragouts. 

Egg  Balls. ‚Äî Rub  the  yolks  of  4  hard-boiled  eggs  fine,  add  Yg 
teaspoonful  butter,  a  small  pinch  of  salt,  and  nutmeg,  and  1  raw 
yolk ;  form  this  preparation  with  the  help  of  little  flour  into  small 
round  balls  the  size  of  a  small  hickory  nut ;  drop  them  into  boil- 
ing slightly  salted  water,  and  boil  6  minutes ;  carefully  remove  and 
serve  as  directed  in  other  recipes;  they  are  mostly  used  for  soup 
and  ragouts. 

Fish  Forcemeat  Balls.‚Äî Chop  fine  V2  pound  of  fresh  codfish 
or  halibut ;  soak  2  slices  of  stale  bread  in  cold  water  about  10  min- 
utes, then  inclose  it  in  a  towel,  and  press  out  all  the  water ;  measure 
it  (there  should  be  Y2  pint).  Melt  1  tablespoonful  butter  over  the 
fire,  add  1  tablespoonful  fine-minced  onion,  cook  5  minutes  without 
browning ;  add  the  bread,  stir  and  cook  5  minutes  longer ;  then  re- 
move ;  when  cold  mix  with  the  fish  meat  the  yolk  of  1  egg  and  1 
whole  egg ;  season  with  1  teaspoonful  salt,  Y4  teaspoonful  pepper,  a 
little  nutmeg,  and  a  pinch  of  powdered  thyme ;  mix  well  together ; 
form  the  preparation  into  small  balls,  rolled  in  flour ;  place  a  sauce- 
pan with  3  pints  water  over  the  fire,  add  Ys  tablespoonful  salt,  2 
slices  of  onion,  the  same  of  carrot,  a  bay  leaf,  3  cloves,  6  whole  pep- 
pers, and  2  tablespoonfuls  vinegar;  as  soon  as  it  boils,  put  in  the 
balls,  and  boil  8  minutes ;  then  remove  carefully  with  a  skimmer 
and  use  for  garnishing  fish. 

Turtle  Forcemeat  Balls. ‚Äî Add  to  Y2  pound  fine-minced  tur- 
tle meat  the  yolks  of  3  hard-boiled  eggs,  previously  rubbed  into  a 
paste  with  lYs  tablespoonful  butter;  add  2  whole  eggs,  a  little 
Cayenne  pepper,  and  mace,  2  tablespoonfuls  of  powdered  crackers, 
and,  if  necessary,  some  salt.     Mix  all  the  ingredients  well  together ; 


SMALL  DUMPLINGS  FOR  FRUIT  AND  WINE  SOUPS.        87 

shape  into  balls,  dip  in  egg,  then  in  powdered  crackers,  fry  in 
butter,  and  drop  into  the  turtle  soup ;  or  use  them  for  turtle  ragout. 

Oyster  Forcemeat  Balls. ‚Äî Mix  well  together,  shape  into 
balls,  and  boil  5  minutes  in  salted  water  10  fine-chopped  oysters,  1 
cupful  bread  crumbs,  %  tablespoonful  fine-chopped  parsley,  a  little 
Cayenne  pepper  and  salt,  2  eggs,  1  tablespoonful  oyster  liquor,  and 

1  ounce  butter. 

Crab  Forcemeat  Balls. ‚Äî Stir  2  ounces  of  butter  to  a  cream, 
add  by  degrees  the  yolk  of  1  egg,  1  whole  egg,  4  ounces  bread 
crumbs ;  take  the  meat  from  4  boiled  crabs,  cut  it  into  little  square 
pieces  (there  should  be  Yg  pint).  Mix  all  the  ingredients  well  to- 
gether, season  with  salt  and  a  little  nutmeg ;  shape  into  balls  like  a 
pigeon  egg,  and  boil  6  minutes  in  bouillon.     Another  way  is  to  stir 

2  ounces  of  crab  butter  to  a  cream,  add  by  degrees  the  yolk  of  1 
egg,  1  whole  egg,  2  ounces  of  bread  crumbs,  salt,  a  little  nutmeg, 
and  1  cupful  fine-cut  crab  meat;  shape  into  balls,  and  boil  6 
minutes. 

Rice  Balls. ‚Äî Place  Y4  pound  of  rice  in  a  saucepan  with  cold 
water  over  the  fire,  boil  a  few  minutes ;  drain  in  a  colander,  rinse 
off  with  cold  water,  return  the  rice  to  saucepan,  cover  with  milk  or 
water,  add  Vg  tablespoonful  butter  and  some  salt ;  boil  the  rice  till 
tender  and  thick ;  take  it  from  the  fire,  mix  with  2  eggs,  and,  when 
cold,  shape  into  balls,  rolled  in  bread  crumbs  or  flour;  boil  6  min- 
utes in  bouillon  or  salt  water ;  drop  them  into  the  soup  when  served. 

Forcemeat  Balls  of  Fresh  Pork  and  Teal.‚Äî Four  ounces 
finely  chopped  veal,  4  ounces  fine-chopped  fresh  pork  (the  best  way 
is  to  take  1  pork  chop),  1  even  teaspoonful  salt,  Yg  even  teaspoonful 
pepper,  Y4  teaspoonful  grated  nutmeg,  1  cupful  stale  bread  soaked 
in  cold  water,  pressed  out  in  a  towel,  and  then  measured,  Y2  table- 
spoonful butter,  1  whole  egg,  and  the  yolk  of  1  egg.  Melt  the  but- 
ter in  a  saucepan,  add  the  bread,  and  stir  5  minutes  over  the  fire ; 
then  remove ;  when  cold,  mix  the  ingredients  together,  form  into 


88        SMALL  DUMPLINGS  FOR  FRUIT  AND  WINE  SOUPS. 

small  balls,  rolled  in  flour,  and  boil  either  in  boiling  soup  or  in 
boiling  salted  water ;  cook  8  minutes,  and  use  as  directed  in  yarious 
recipes. 

Decorated  Forcemeat  Dumplings. ‚Äî Prepare  a  fine  chicken 
forcemeat,  form  it  with  2  spoons  into  small  dumplings ;  lay  these 
into  a  wide  shallow  pan,  and  on  each  one  a  little  piece  of  red  boiled 
beef  tongue  and  a  thin  slice  of  truffles,  dipping  first  into  beaten 
white  of  egg,  and  then  pressing  them  a  little  into  the  dumplings. 
Ten  minutes  before  serving,  set  the  pan  on  the  stove,  and  pour 
through  a  funnel  enough  boiling  water  into  the  pan  to  cover  the 
dumplings ;  let  simmer  10  minutes ;  then  take  them  out  carefully 
with  a  skimmer,  and  use  for  garnishing  fine  dishes. 

Sausage  Forcemeat  Balls. ‚Äî Soak  2  ounces  bread  10  min- 
utes in  cold  water,  inclose  it  in  a  towel,  and  press  out  all  the  water. 
Melt  Ya  tablespoonful  butter  in  a  saucepan,  add  the  bread,  stir,  and 
cook  5  minutes ;  then  remove  from  fire ;  when  cold  mix  it  with  2 
ounces  sausage  meat,  %  teaspoonful  nutmeg,  y^  teaspoonful  salt 
and  a  pinch  of  pepper,  1  egg,  and  1  teaspoonful  grated  onion  ;  form 
this  into  small  balls  like  marbles  (in  rolling  them,  dip  the  fingers 
in  cold  water ;  this  makes  them  nice  and  smooth) ;  lay  them  on  a 
plate,  dust  over  with  flour,  shake  the  plate  to  and  fro  so  that  the 
balls  roll  themselves  in  flour ;  drop  them  into  boiling  salted  water 
cook  6  minutes ;  remove  carefully  with  a  skimmer  and  serve  as 
directed  in  other  recipes.  In  place  of  sausage  meat,  beef  may  be 
taken. 


SAUCES. 

General  Directions. ‚Äî In  nothing  does  the  skill  and  talent  of 
the  cook  display  itself  more  than  in  the  preparation  and  appearance 
of  sauces.  A  well-prepared  sauce  will  make  the  commonest  dish 
highly  palatable,  whereas  a  badly  prepared  one  will  spoil  the  finest 
dish,  and  often  the  whole  meal.  I  am  sorry  to  say  that  in  so 
many  households  there  is  very  little  attention  paid  to  this  part  of 
the  cooking.  To  learn  the  special  adaptability  of  sauces  to  the  va- 
rious viands  they  are  to  accompany,  in  order  that  they  may  har- 
monize with  them,  is  an  art,  and  can  not  be  studied  too  much. 
There  is  no  necessity  for  sauces  to  be  expensive,  as  many  people 
would  have  the  world  believe ;  it  shows  that  to  all  who  make  such 
remarks  the  important  part  of  cooking  is  unknown,  and  that  they 
are  either  too  indolent  to  learn  or  too  proud  to  acknowledge  their 
ignorance.  The  finishing  of  a  fine  sauce  distinguishes  itself  through 
strength,  fine  fragrance,  clearness  of  essence,  luster,  and  consistence. 
All  sauces  should  be  finished  shortly  before  serving,  as  they  do  not 
gain  in  taste  and  looks  by  standing  and  warming  over,  and  for  this 
reason  no  more  should  be  made  at  one  time  than  is  wanted  for  one 
meal.  While  the  sauce  is  over  the  fire  it  is  necessary  to  stir  con- 
stantly, and  as  soon  as  done  it  must  be  placed  in  a  vessel  of  hot 
water  (bain-marie)  until  serving.  Those  sauces  to  which  cream  or 
eggs  are  added  should  not  be  allowed  to  boil,  as  in  that  case  they 
will  instantly  curdle.  Brown  sauce  should  not  be  as  thick  as  a 
white  sauce  ;  and  all  those  which  are  intended  to  mask  the  various 
dishes  of  poultry  or  meat  should  be  of  sufficient  consistence  to 
slightly  adhere  to  the  fowls  or  joints  over  which  they  are  poured. 


90  SAUCES. 

Bordelaise  Sauce. ‚Äî Place  a  small  saucepan  with  1  gill  of  red 
wine  over  the  fire,  add  1  tablespoonful  fine-chopped  white  onion  or 
shallot,  and  a  small  bouquet ;  reduce  by  boiling  to  one  half.  Melt 
in  another  saucepan  1  ounce  butter ;  add  1  tablespoonful  flour,  Yg 
bay  leaf,  and  13  whole  peppers,  stir,  and  cook  5  minutes ;  add  1 
pint  chicken  or  veal  broth,  Yg  teaspoonful  beef  extract,  and  the  con- 
tents of  the  small  saucepan,  cook  8  minutes ;  season  with  1  even 
teaspoonful  salt  and  a  pinch  of  Cayenne  pepper,  then  strain  ;  add  2 
ounces  of  blanched  marrow  cut  into  round  slices,  and  serve. 

Sauce  Poivrade. ‚Äî Place  a  saucepan  with  1  fine-chopped 
onion  and  1  ounce  butter  over  the  fire ;  cook  5  minutes ;  add  1 
ounce  fine-cut  ham,  1  bay  leaf,  12  coarsely  pounded  peppers,  1  sprig 
of  thyme  and  parsley,  1  gill  of  herb  vinegar,  1  gill  of  white  broth  ; 
cover,  and  cook  slowly  till  reduced  to  one  half ;  then  strain  the 
essence  through  a  cloth.  Melt  in  another  saucepan  1  ounce  butter, 
add  1  tablespoonful  flour,  stir,  and  cook  3  minutes ;  add  IY2  cupful 
consomme,  or  boiling  water,  with  Y2  teaspoonful  beef  extract,  1  even 
teaspoonful  salt ;  cook  5  minutes  ;  add  the  essence,  continue  to  cook 
5  minutes  longer,  and  serve.  If  this  sauce  is  wanted  for  fish,  add 
IY2  ounce  butter  in  small  pieces  just  before  serving. 

Horseradish  Sauce. ‚Äî Melt  in  a  small  saucepan  1  ounce  but- 
ter ;  add  1  heaping  tablespoonful  flour,  stir  this  for  a  few  minutes  ; 
then  add  Ys  pint  veal  or  chicken  broth  ;  tie  together  1  sprig  of  pars- 
ley, Yz  blade  of  mace,  1  clove,  Y*  sprig  of  thyme,  Y4  bay  leaf,  and  6 
whole  peppers  ;  add  it  to  the  sauce  with  Y2  cupful  mushroom  liquor; 
boil  slowly  5  minutes  ;  then  strain  it  into  a  clean  saucepan  ;  add  Y2 
ounce  butter  in  small  portions,  a  little  nutmeg,  Y2  cupful  cream,  and 
3  tablespoonfuls  grated  horseradish  ;  cook  2  minutes,  and  serve. 

Fine  Sauce  Hollandaise. ‚Äî Put  the  yolks  of  3  eggs  in  a  small 
saucepan ;  mix  them  with  Y4  teaspoonful  salt,  Y4  teaspoonful  nut- 
meg ;  set  the  saucepan  in  a  vessel  of  hot  water ;  add  by  degrees  4 
ounces  butter  in  small  pieces  ;  stir  constantly  ;  then  place  the  sauce- 
pan for  a  few  minutes  over  the  fire,  and  stir  till  the  sauce  is  smooth 


SAUCES.  91 

and  thick  (care  must  be  taken  not  to  let  it  boil) ;  remove  the  sauce- 
pan, add  1  tablespoonful  lemon  juice,  and  serve.  In  place  of  lemon 
juice,  a  little  herb  vinegar  may  be  taken. 

Sauce  Hollandaise. ‚Äî Place  a  small  saucepan  with  3  ounces 
butter  over  the  fire  ;  add  2  tablespoonfuls  fine-chopped  onion  ;  cook 
5  minutes  without  browning ;  add  1  heaping  tablespoonful  flour, 
cook  and  stir  3  minutes;  then  add  2  cupfuls  chicken  or  veal  broth, 
also  a  small  bouquet,  and  cook  ten  minutes ;  strain  the  sauce  into 
another  saucepan ;  mix  the  yolks  of  2  eggs  with  2  tablespoonfuls 
lemon  juice ;  add  it  to  the  sauce ;  season  with  Yg  teaspoonful  salt 
and  Y4  teaspoonful  nutmeg,  let  it  get  hot,  but  do  not  allow  to  boil ; 
add  Y2  tablespoonful  butter  in  small  portions  ;  mix  well  and  serve. 

Helgalander  Sauce. ‚Äî Peel  4  medium-sized  white  onions,  cut 
them  into  quarters ;  place  them  with  2  tablespoonfuls  fine-cut  ham 
in  a  saucepan ;  add  1  bay  leaf,  1  blade  of  mace,  2  cloves,  6  coarsely 
pounded  peppers ;  cover  with  water,  and  boil  till  the  onions  are 
tender  and  boiled  nearly  dry  ;  then  press  them  through  a  sieve.  In 
the  meantime  melt  1  tablespoonful  butter  in  a  saucepan,  add  1 
tablespoonful  flour ;  stir  3  minutes ;  add  1  pint  white  broth,  Ys 
pint  milk ;  season  with  1  even  teaspoonful  salt,  Y4  teaspoonful 
Cayenne  pepper ;  add  a  small  bouquet,  and,  if  handy,  Ys  giU  mush- 
room liquor ;  cook  10  minutes  ;  then  strain  ;  add  the  onion  puree, 
return  the  sauce  to  the  fire  ;  let  it  cook  a  few  minutes  ;  add  2  table- 
spoonfuls cream,  a  little  nutmeg,  and  a  small  piece  of  butter ;  stir 
until  well  mixed ;  then  serve  with  boiled  mutton,  boiled  ham,  or 
corned  beef. 

Sauce  Piquante. ‚Äî Place  a  small  saucepan  with  1  ounce  fine- 
chopped  boiled  ham  and  1  fine-chopped  onion  over  the  fire ;  add 
Ya  cupful  white  vinegar,  1  bay  leaf,  1  sprig  of  thyme,  1  sprig  of 
parsley,  6  coarsely  pounded  peppers,  cover  and  boil  till  reduced  to 
one  half.  Place  in  another  saucepan  1  tablespoonful  butter,  add  1 
tablespoonful  flour  ;  stir  and  cook  a  few  minutes ;  add  1  pint  con- 
somme or  broth,  add  a  bouquet,  season  with  1  even  teaspoonful  salt, 
7 


92  SAUCES. 

Ya  teaspoonful  pepper,  cook  10  minutes ;  add  the  contents  of  the 
first  saucepan,  boil  3  minutes ;  then  strain  the  sauce  into  a  clean 
saucepan ;  add  2  tablespoonfuls  fine-chopped  mushrooms,  the  same  of 
fine-chopped  pickles,  1  tablespoonful  capers,  cook  10  minutes  ;  then 
serve.    This  sauce  is  mostly  served  with  boiled  or  warmed-over  meats. 

Sauce  Matelote. ‚Äî Put  in  a  saucepan  1  tablespoonful  fine-cut 
onions,  the  same  of  fine-cut  raw  ham  and  mushrooms ;  add  a  small 
bouquet,  6  coarsely  pounded  black  peppers ;  cover  with  Yg  pi^t 
Bordeaux  wine,  Y2  cup  of  essence  of  fish  ;  place  the  saucepan  over 
the  fire,  and  boil  till  reduced  to  one  third  ;  then  strain.  Melt  in  a 
saucepan  1  tablespoonful  butter,  add  1  tablespoonful  flour,  cook  and 
stir  3  minutes ;  add  1  pint  of  consomme  or  boiling  water  with  1 
teaspoonful  beef  extract ;  season  with  1  even  teaspoonful  salt,  add  a 
small  bouquet,  cook  10  minutes;  then  add  the  above  essence  of 
wine,  boil  2  minutes  ;  strain  through  a  fine  sieve ;  add  1  tablespoon- 
ful anchovy  butter,  and  serve  with  boiled  or  baked  fish. 

Onion  Sauce. ‚Äî Place  a  saucepan  with  1  ounce  butter  or  fat 
over  the  fire  ;  add  1  tablespoonful  sugar  and  Ys  cupful  fine-chopped 
onion,  cook  until  light  brown ;  then  add  Y2  tablespoonful  flour,  stir 
and  cook  3  minutes ;  add  3  tablespoonfuls  vinegar,  Ys  P'^^  of 
stock,  1  even  teaspoonful  salt,  Y4  teaspoonful  pepper,  and  1  tea- 
spoonful sugar;  cook  5  minutes,  and  serve.  This  sauce  can  be 
served  as  it  is  or  strained. 

Sauce  a  la  Toulouse. ‚Äî Place  a  saucepan  with  1  ounce  butter 
and  1  fine-chopped  onion  over  the  fire ;  add  1  bay  leaf,  12  coarsely 
pounded  peppers;  cook  5  minutes  without  browning;  add  1  table- 
spoonful flour,  stir  and  cook  3  minutes  ;  add  Y2  piiit  veal  or  chicken 
broth,  1  gill  of  white  wine,  1  gill  of  mushroom  liquor,  1  even  tea- 
spoonful salt ;  cook  8  minutes  ;  then  strain  into  a  clean  saucepan  ; 
add  Y2  gill  fine-cut  truffles  and  the  same  of  mushrooms ;  cook  5 
minutes  ;  mix  Y2  cupful  cream  with  the  yolks  of  2  eggs  ;  add  it  to 
the  sauce ;  let  it  remain  for  a  few  minutes  over  the  fire  without 
boiling,  and  serve. 


SAUCES.  93 

Brown-Onion  Sauce. ‚Äî Peel  and  cut  4  medium-sized  onions 
into  slices  ;  place  them  with  2  ounces  of  butter  or  fat  over  the  fire ; 
fry  and  stir  till  the  onions  have  obtained  a  light-brown  color ;  then 
add  1  tablespoonful  flour,  continue  stirring  for  a  few  minutes 
longer ;  add  1  pint  of  stock  or  1  pint  boiling  water  with  1  teaspoon- 
f  ul  beef  extract ;  cover  and  boil  slowly  30  minutes ;  then  press  the 
sauce  through  a  sieve ;  season  with  1  even  teaspoonful  salt  and  Yg 
even  teaspoonful  pepper,  and  serve. 

White  Onion  Sauce. ‚Äî Peel  4  medium-sized  white  onions ; 
place  them  in  a  saucepan ;  cover  with  boiling  water  and  Yg  tea- 
spoonful salt,  boil  till  tender,  which  will  take  about  30  minutes ; 
when  done  drain  off  all  the  water ;  chop  the  onions  fine,  and  mix 
them  with  the  following  sauce  :  Melt  in  a  saucepan  2  ounces  of 
butter,  add  1  heaping  tablespoonful  flour,  stir  and  cook  3  minutes  ; 
then  add  1  pint  of  boiling  white  broth,  cook  3  minutes ;  add  the 
chopped  onions  and  let  the  whole  boil  a  few  minutes  longer ;  season 
with  1  even  teaspoonful  salt,  Ys  even  teaspoonful  white  pepper,  and 
serve. 

Sirup  Sauce. ‚Äî Cut  2  ounces  of  larding  pork  into  small  dice- 
shaped  pieces ;  place  them  in  a  saucepan  over  the  fire,  and  fry  light 
brown ;  then  add  1  heaping  tablespoonful  flour,  stir  for  a  few  min- 
utes ;  add  IY2  cup  boiling  water,  stir  and  cook  3  minutes ;  add  Y2 
cupful  sirup  and  4  tablespoonfuls  vinegar ;  or  add  sirup  and  vinegar 
to  taste.  This  sauce  is  served  hot  in  north  Germany  with  plain 
boiled  dumplings,  and  when  cold  it  is  served  with  lettuce  and 
pancakes. 

Spanish  Sauce. ‚Äî Place  a  saucepan  with  1  ounce  butter  over 
the  fire ;  add  2  tablespoonfuls  fine-cut  raw  ham,  the  same  of  onion, 
carrot,  and  celery,  cook  5  minutes ;  then  add  1  heaping  tablespoon- 
ful flour,  stir  and  cook  3  minutes  ;  add  1  pint  of  soup  stock  or  broth, 
1  even  teaspoonful  salt,  6  whole  pepjjers,  and  a  bouquet ;  boil  slowly 
10  minutes ;  then  strain,  and  serve.  If  stock  or  broth  is  not  at 
hand  add  to  1  pint  boiling  water  1  teaspoonful  beef  extract. 


94  SAUCES. 

Champagne  Sauce. ‚Äî Place  a  small  saucepan  with  2  fine- 
chopped  shallots  and  1  ounce  butter  over  the  fire,  cook  3  minutes ; 
add  Y2  pint  champagne,  2  cloves,  6  coarsely  pounded  peppers,  % 
blade  of  mace,  Y2  bay  leaf,  cover  and  cook  till  reduced  to  one  half. 
Prepare  a  Spanish  sauce  the  same  as  in  foregoing  recipe ;  strain  the 
essence  through  a  napkin,  add  it  to  the  sauce,  cook  for  a  few  min- 
utes, and  serve. 

Olive  Sauce. ‚Äî Put  %  cupful  fine-cut  prepared  olives  into  the 
Spanish  sauce ;  cook  5  minutes,  and  serve.  Another  way  is  to  rcr 
move  the  pits  from  12  salted  olives,  let  them  lay  for  20  minutes  in 
warm  water ;  press  the  olives  back  into  their  natural  form ;  put 
them  into  the  Spanish  sauce ;  cook  10  minutes ;  add  the  juice  of 
%  lemon,  and  serve. 

Raisin  Sauce. ‚Äî Put  1  cupful  raisins  in  a  saucepan  ;  cover  with 
Va  cupful  water,  Y2  cupful  white  wine,  and  boil  20  minutes.  At 
the  same  time  place  a  saucepan  with  1  tablespoouful  butter  over 
the  fire  ;  add  1  fine-cut  onion,  a  little  fine-cut  ham,  and  carrot, 
cook  5  minutes,  then  add  1  heaping  tablespoonful  flour ;  stir  for  a 
few  minutes ;  add  1  pint  boiling  water,  1  tablespoonful  liquid  beef 
extract,  3  cloves,  1  bay  leaf,  6  crushed  peppers,  1  blade  of  mace,  1 
even  teaspoonful  salt,  Y4  teaspoonf ul  pepper ;  cook  10  minutes ; 
then  strain  it  into  a  clean  saucepan ;  add  the  raisins,  return  the 
saucepan  to  the  fire ;  add  1  tablespoonful  lemon  juice  and  1  table- 
spoonful sugar ;  cook  for  a  few  minutes ;  then  serve  with  boiled 
beef -tongue  or  boiled  ham. 

Polish  Sauce. ‚Äî Prepare  1  pint  of  Spanish  sauce  ;  add  4  ounces 
finely  pounded  almonds,  4  ounces  raisins,  the  juice  of  1  lemon,  1 
teaspoonful  sugar,  Y2  cupful  white  wine ;  boil  slowly  20  minutes ; 
then  strain ;  if  necessary,  add  little  salt.  Serve  with  boiled  beef- 
tongue. 

Tomato  Sauce  a  I'Allemande.‚Äî Open  a  can  of  tomatoes,  and 
turn  the  contents  into  a  saucepan ;  add  1  even  teaspoonful  salt,  Ya 
tablespoonful   butter,   2   teaspoonfuls    sugar,   and   let   it   cook   30 


SAUCES.  95 

minutes.  Mix  1  teaspoonful  cornstarch  with  a  little  cold  water, 
add  it  to  the  tomatoes,  cook  2  minutes;  then  strain  through  a 
sieve.  Mix  the  yolks  of  2  eggs  in  a  saucepan,  with  2  tablespoonfuls 
cold  water,  add  gradually  the  tomatoes,  while  stirring  constantly ; 
retur;H  the  tomatoes  for  a  few  minutes  to  the  fire ;  heat  it  to  a  boil- 
ing point,  but  do  not  allow  it  to  boil ;  add  Yg  gill  of  cream.  Serve 
at  once. 

Tomato  Sauce  a  la  Fran^aise.‚Äî Place  a  small  saucepan 
with  1  tablespoonful  butter  or  poultry  fat  over  the  fire  ;  add  2  table- 
spoonfuls  fine-cut  carrots,  1  fine-cut  onion,  Y3  bay  leaf,  2  cloves,  1 
blade  of  mace,  6  whole  peppers,  1  sprig  of  thyme ;  stir  and  cook  10 
minutes;  add  1  tablespoonful  flour,  and  cook  2  minutes;  add  1  can 
tomatoes,  1  teaspoonful  salt,  1  even  teaspoonful  pepper,  1  teaspoon- 
ful, sugar ;  cook  slowly  10  minutes,  stirring  constantly,  then  strain, 
and  serve. 

Sauce  de  Grourmets. ‚Äî Melt  %  tablespoonful  butter,  add  1 
tablespoonful  fine-chopped  onions,  the  same  of  carrots  and  raw  ham ; 
cook  5  minutes ;  add  Yg  tablespoonful  flour,  cook  3  minutes  ;  add  2 
fine-cut  tomatoes,  Y2  pi^t  of  boiling  water,  Ys  teaspoonful  salt,  Y4 
teaspoonful  pepper,  1  tablespoonful  liquid  beef  extract;  cook  10 
minutes ;  strain  and  add  1  tablespoonful  crawfish  butter.  In  the 
meanwhile  peel  and  boil  4  shallots  in  salted  water,  drain  and  chop 
them  fine ;  dip  1  sprig  of  parsley  and  4  leaves  of  tarragon  into 
boiling  water ;  remove,  chop  fine,  and  add  this  to  the  sauce  ;  season 
with  a  little  Cayenne  pepper,  and  salt  to  taste.  If  the  sauce  should 
be  too  thick,  add  more  bouillon  or  boiling  water,  with  a  little  beef 
extract.     Serve  this  sauce  with  boiled  or  baked  fish  only. 

English  Bread  Sauce. ‚Äî Place  a  saucepan  with  1  cupful  milk 
over  the  fire;  add  a  small  white  onion,  2  tablespoonfuls  grated 
bread  crumbs,  6  whole  peppercorns,  and  a  little  salt ;  cook  10  min- 
utes ;  take  out  the  onion ;  add  1  tablespoonful  butter  in  small 
pieces,  cook  for  a  few  minutes  longer ;  then  strain  through  a  sieve, 
add  a  few  spoonfuls  cream,  and  serve  with  boiled  poultry. 


96  SAUCES. 

Oyster  Sauce. ‚Äî Melt  1  tablespoonful  butter  in  a  saucepan ; 
add  1  tablespoonful  flour ;  cook  and  stir  3  minutes  without  brown- 
ing ;  then  add  1  pint  of  white  broth,  1  even  teaspoonful  salt,  6 
coarsely  pounded  peppers,  a  small  bouquet,  and  Yg  giU  mushroom 
liquor ;  boil  5  minutes  ;  then  strain  into  a  clean  saucepan  ;  mix  the 
yolks  of  2  eggs  with  Yg  cup  cream  ;  add  it  to  the  sauce.  In  the 
meantime  put  1  dozen  medium-sized  oysters,  without  their  liquor, 
in  a  saucepan ;  add  Yg  tablespoonful  butter,  1  tablespoonful  lemon 
juice,  Y4  teaspoonful  white  pepper,  and  the  same  of  salt ;  cook  until 
the  oysters  begin  to  ruffle  ;  then  add  them  to  the  sauce  and  serve. 

Mushroom  Sauce,  No.  1. ‚Äî Melt  2  ounces  butter  in  a  sauce- 
pan ;  add  1  tablespoonful  flour,  cook  and  stir  3  minutes ;  add  1  pint 
boiling  consomme  or  broth  (and,  if  neither  should  be  at  hand,  add 
to  1  pint  of  boiling  water  1  teaspoonful  beef  extract)  ;  stir  until 
smooth  ;  then  add  Y2  can  of  mushrooms ;  season  with  salt  and 
pepper,  and  cook  15  minutes  ;  add  last  1  tablespoonful  lemon  juice, 
and  serve  with  broiled  beefsteak. 

Mushroom  Sauce,  No.  2. ‚Äî Chop  fine  Y2  pint  of  well-cleaned 
fresh  mushrooms ;  put  them  in  a  small  saucepan  with  2  ounces  of 
butter ;  let  them  simmer  10  minutes  ;  dust  over  1  tablespoonful 
flour ;  add  1  pint  boiling  water,  with  Ys  teaspoonful  beef  extract ; 
season  with  salt  and  pepper ;  boil  5  minutes,  add  Y2  tablespoonful 
lemon  juice,  and  serve. 

German  Cherry  Sauce. ‚Äî Wash  Ys  pound  dried  sour  cherries ; 
place  them  in  a  saucepan ;  cover  with  1  quart  of  cold  water  ;  add  a 
small  piece  of  cinnamon,  the  thin  peel  of  Y2  lemon,  a  thin  slice  of 
stale  bread,  and  boil  slowly  1  hour ;  then  press  it  through  a  sieve 
into  a  clean  saucepan ;  add  Y2  pint  of  red  wine,  3  Y2  tablespoonfuls 
sugar ;  return  the  saucepan  to  the  fire  and  reduce  by  boiling  to  IY2 
pint ;  add  Y2  cupful  preserved  cherries,  and  serve  with  game. 

English  Gooseberry  Sauce.‚Äî Clean  and  wash  Y2  pint  of 
gooseberries,  place  them  in  a  saucepan,  cover  with  boiling  water, 
cook  3  minutes ;   drain  ofl:  the  water  and  press  the  gooseberries 


SAUCES.  97 

through  a  sieve ;  add  them  to  Yg  pint  of  butter  sauce ;  serve  with 
boiled  fish. 

Cumberland  Sauce. ‚Äî Pare  off  very  thin  the  peel  from  a  green 
orange,  cut  it  into  fine  strips  like  straws  (julienne) ;  place  them  in 
a  small  saucepan ;  cover  with  boiling  water  and  cook  15  minutes, 
changing  the  water  3  times  during  that  time ;  then  drain  in  a  sieve, 
add  slowly  to  Yg  cup  of  currant  jelly  Ys  pint  Bordeaux  wine,  the 
juice  of  the  peeled  orange,  and  the  fine-cut  and  boiled  peel ;  also  1 
teaspoonful  English  mixed  mustard  and  Y*  teaspoonful  Cayenne 
pepper ;  serve  with  game. 

Sauce  a  la  Politaine. ‚Äî Pour  '^j^  pint  Port  or  Madeira  wine  in 
a  saucepan ;  add  1  fine-chopped  white  onion,  1  ounce  fine-cut  lean 
ham,  6  coarsely  crushed  black  peppers,  1  bay  leaf,  1  blade  of  mace,  a 
small  sprig  of  thyme,  2  sprigs  of  parsley  ;  cover  and  boil  till  reduced 
to  one  half ;  then  strain  through  a  napkin,  and  add  1  teaspoonful 
sugar.  Place  in  a  small  saucepan  1  tablespoonful  butter,  add  1  table- 
spoonful  flour,  stir  and  cook  a  few  minutes ;  then  add  IY2  cup  boiling 
water,  1  teaspoonful  beef  extract,  Y2  teaspoonful  salt,  Y2  cupful 
canned  tomatoes,  and  a  small  bouquet ;  cook  10  minutes ;  then 
strain ;  add  the  above  wine  essence ;  season  with  1  tablespoonful 
anchovy  butter,  a  little  Cayenne  pepper,  and  serve. 

Sauce  a  la  Financiere. ‚Äî Melt  1  ounce  butter  in  a  small  sauce- 
pan ;  add  1  fine-chopped  onion,  1  ounce  fine-cut  ham,  3  chopped 
mushrooms,  2  cloves,  6  coarsely  pounded  peppers,  1  blade  of  mace ; 
cook  5  minutes  ;  then  add  Y2  pi^t  Rhine  wine  ;  cover  and  cook  till 
reduced  to  one  third.  Melt  in  another  saucepan  1  tablespoonful  but- 
ter ;  add  1  tablespoonful  flour  ;  stir  and  cook  2  minutes ;  add  IY2  cup 
of  boiling  water,  1  teaspoonful  beef  extract,  Y2  teaspoonful  salt,  and 
a  small  bouquet ;  cook  10  minutes ;  add  the  above  wine  preparation, 
cook  3  minutes ;  then  strain ;  boil  2  tablespoonfuls  fine-sliced  trufiles 
for  10  minutes  in  a  little  wine,  then  add  it  to  the  sauce  and  serve. 

Madeira  Sauce. ‚Äî Place  a  small  saucepan  with  1  tablespoonful 
butter  over  the  fire;  add  1  tablespoonful  fine- cut  onion,  the  same  of 


98  SAUCES. 

raw  ham  and  carrots,  1  sprig  of  thyme,  1  bay  leaf,  6  whole  peppers, 
2  cloves,  3  parsley  roots,  and  a  little  celery ;  cook  6  minutes ;  then 
add  1  tablespoonful  flour,  cook  a  few  minutes;  add  iVg  cup  of 
boiling  water,  1  teaspoonful  beef  extract,  and  cook  15  minutes ; 
then  strain ;  return  the  sauce  to  the  saucepan  again,  add  Yg  cupful 
mushroom  liquor,  a  small  bouquet,  Yg  even  teaspoonful  pepper,  1 
even  teaspoonful  salt,  and  Y2  cupful  Madeira  or  sherry  wine.  Cook 
slowly  10  minutes,  removing  all  fat  which  may  arise  to  the  surface. 

Colbert  Sauce. ‚Äî Place  a  saucepan  with  1  ounce  butter  over 
the  fire ;  add  1  fine-chopped  onion,  2  tablespoonfuls  fine-cut  raw 
ham,  2  tablespoonfuls  fine-cut  carrots,  1  bay  leaf,  2  cloves,  6  coarsely 
pounded  black  peppers,  1  blade  of  mace,  and  a  sprig  of  thyme ; 
cover,  and  cook  6  minutes  without  browning ;  then  add  1  table- 
spoonful  flour,  stir  2  minutes ;  add  IY2  cup  of  white  broth,  cook  10 
minutes;  then  strain  into  another  saucepan,  add  Y2  cup  of  mush- 
room liquor,  Y2  cup  of  sherry  wine,  Yi  teaspoonful  Cayenne  pepper, 
and  a  bouquet ;  cook  10  minutes ;  then  add  1  tablespoonful  of  liquid 
beef  extract,  1  ounce  butter;  remove  the  bouquet;  add  the  juice  of 
Y2  a  lemon  and  1  teaspoonful  chopped  parsley;  do  not  let  it  boil 
again  after  the  last  2  ingredients  have  been  added. 

Sauce  Bearnaise. ‚Äî Place  2  tablespoonfuls  fine-chopped  shallots 
in  a  small  saucepan ;  add  3  tablespoonfuls  tarragon  vinegar  and  8 
whole  crushed  peppers;  reduce  by  boiling  till  nearly  dry;  remove 
from  fire,  and  when  nearly  cold  add  the  yolks  of  4  eggs ;  set  the 
saucepan  in  hot  water,  stir  constantly ;  add  4  ounces  of  butter  in 
small  pieces ;  season  with  1  even  teaspoonful  salt  and  Ys  teaspoonful 
grated  nutmeg ;  stir  till  the  butter  is  melted  ;  add  1  teaspoonful  beef 
extract  mixed  with  3  tablespoonfuls  boiling  water ;  stir  over  the  fire 
until  the  sauce  is  thick ;  then  remove,  and  strain  through  a  fine 
sieve.  Serve  with  broiled  steak  or  fish.  The  sauce  is  put  on  a  warm 
dish,  and  the  meat  or  fish  is  laid  on  top  of  it. 

Yeloute  Sauce. ‚Äî Place  a  saucepan  with  2  ounces  of  butter 
over  the  fire ;  add  as  soon  as  the  butter  is  melted  2  tablespoonfuls 


SAUCES.  99 

flour ;  stir  a  few  minutes  over  the  fire,  but  do  not  let  it  get  brown ; 
add  3  cups  chicken  or  veal  broth,  a  small  bouquet,  Yg  cupful  mush- 
room liquor  and  a  few  mushrooms,  1  even  teaspoonful  salt,  6  whole 
peppers,  a  little  nutmeg ;  boil  and  stir  10  minutes ;  remove  the  bou- 
quet and  all  the  fat ;  draw  the  saucepan  to  side  of  stove  and  let 
it  simmer  10  minutes ;  then  strain,  and  serve. 

Bechamel  Sauce  a  PAUemande. ‚Äî Melt  2  ounces  butter  in  a 
saucepan ;  add  1  heaping  tablespoonful  flour ;  stir  until  the  flour 
has  absorbed  all  the  butter ;  then  add  1  cupful  white  broth,  Yg 
cupful  mushroom  liquor,  a  small  bouquet,  1  cupful  cream ;  cook  5 
minutes;  strain  into  a  clean  saucepan,  and  add  Y2  tablespoonful 
butter  in  small  pieces  ;  stir  a  few  minutes  over  the  fire,  and 
serve. 

Bechamel  Sauce. ‚Äî Place  a  saucepan  with  1  tablespoonful  but- 
ter over  the  fire ;  add  1  tablespoonful  flour,  and  stir  for  5  minutes ; 
then  add  2  cups  boiling  milk ;  season  with  Ys  teaspoonful  nutmeg,  1 
even  teaspoonful  salt,  a  small  bouquet,  6  whole  peppers,  Ys  cupful 
mushroom  liquor ;  boil  10  minutes,  strain,  and  serve. 

Supreme  Sauce. ‚Äî Cut  a  well-cleaned  chicken  into  8  pieces ; 
put  the  breast,  thighs,  and  legs  aside  for  other  purposes ;  scald  the 
feet  in  boiling  water,  remove  the  skin,  and  place  them  with  the  2 
wings,  the  giblets,  and  back  of  chicken  in  a  saucepan ;  cover  with 
boiling  water,  and  cook  2  minutes ;  drain  in  colander,  rinse  off  with 
cold  water ;  return  the  chicken  to  saucepan  again ;  cover  with  cold 
water ;  add  1  teaspoonful  salt,  a  small  bouquet ;  cover,  and  boil  lYs 
hour.  Melt  1  ounce  butter  in  a  saucepan ;  add  1  heaping  table- 
spoonful flour;  stir  a  few  minutes;  strain  the  chicken  broth;  add 
1  pint  of  the  broth  to  the  butter  and  flour,  stir  well,  cook  5  min- 
utes ;  then  add  Ys  cupful  cream,  cook  2  minutes,  and  serve. 

Cream  Sauce. ‚Äî Place  a  small  saucepan  with  2  ounces  butter 
and  2  tablespoonfuls  fine-cut  raw  ham  over  the  fire ;  add  2  table- 
spoonfuls  fine-cut  white  onions,  Y2  cupful  fine-cut  canned   mush- 


100  SAUCES. 

rooms,  and  a  small  bouquet ;  cook  5  minutes  ;  then  add  1  heaping 
tablespoonful  flour ;  stir  2  minutes  without  browning ;  add  Yg  pint 
chicken  broth,  Yg  pint  cream,  cook  10  minutes ;  strain  into  a  clean 
saucepan  ;  return  the  saucepan  to  the  fire ;  add  Ys  tablespoonful 
butter  in  small  portions ;  season  with  a  little  salt  and  nutmeg ;  stir 
until  it  begins  to  boil ;  then  remove,  and  serve. 

Sauce  a  I'AUemande. ‚Äî Put  2  ounces  of  butter  in  a  saucepan; 
add  1  heaping  tablespoonful  flour,  stir  a  few  minutes ;  add  1  pint 
of  white  stock,  Ys  cupful  mushroom  liquor,  or  a  few  fiue-choiDped 
mushrooms,  a  small  bouquet,  and  boil  10  minutes ;  strain  into  a 
clean  saucepan ;  return  the  saucepan  to  the  fire ;  mix  Ys  cup  cream 
with  the  yolks  of  2  eggs ;  add  it  to  the  sauce ;  stir  a  few  minutes, 
not  letting  it  boil  again  ;  season  with  a  little  salt  and  nutmeg ;  add 
last  1  tablespoonful  lemon  juice,  and  serve. 

Sauce  a  I'ltalienne ‚Äî White. ‚Äî Place  a  saucepan  with  1  table- 
spoonful butter  over  the  fire ;  add  1  tablespoonful  flour,  stir  3  min- 
utes ;  then  add  Ya  cupful  white  stock,  Ys  cupful  Rhine  wine,  a  small 
bouquet,  and  cook  10  minutes.  In  the  meantime  put  in  a  small 
saucepan  1  ounce  butter ;  add  2  tablespoonfuls  fine-chopped  shallots 
or  white  onion,  cook  5  minutes;  then  add  1  teaspoonful  fine- 
chopped  parsley,  Ys  teaspoonful  fine-chopped  tarragon ;  season  with 
1  even  teaspoonful  salt,  cook  2  minutes.  Strain  the  sauce  in  a  clean 
saucepan,  add  the  herbs,  draining  off  the  butter ;  return  the  sauce 
to  the  fire ;  add  Ys  tablespoonful  butter  in  small  pieces,  and  finish 
with  Ys  tablespoonful  lemon  juice,  and  serve. 

Sauce  a  I'ltalienne ‚Äî Brown. ‚Äî Place  a  small  saucej^an  with 
Ys  tablespoonful  butter  over  the  fire ;  as  soon  as  melted  add  2  table- 
spoonfuls  fine-chopped  shallots ;  stir  and  cook  till  light  brown  ;  then 
add  2  tablespoonfuls  fine-cut  boiled  ham,  the  same  of  fine-cut  mush- 
rooms and  truffles,  cover  with  Ys  cupful  sherry  wine,  and  cook  6 
minutes.  Put  into  another  saucepan  1  ounce  butter ;  add  1  fine-cut 
small  onion,  1  tablespoonful  fine-cut  carrots,  and  the  same  of  celery ; 
cook  5  minutes;  then  add  1  tablespoonful  flour,  stir  a  few  min- 


SAUCES.  101 

utes ;  add  1  pint  of  boiling  water  with  1  teaspoonful  beef  extract, 
also  a  small  bouquet,  and  boil  15  minutes;  then  strain;  add  it  to 
the  first  saucepan ;  season  to  taste  with  salt ;  boil  a  few  minutes, 
and  serve. 

Tilleroi  Sauce. ‚Äî Melt  2  ounces  butter  in  a  saucepan ;  add  2 
tablespoonfuls  flour,  stir,  and  cook  3  minutes;  then  add  3  cup- 
fuls  chicken  or  veal  broth,  a  little  mushroom  essence,  or  mushroom 
liquor,  cook  5  minutes,  mix  Yg  cup  cream  with  the  yolks  of  3  eggs, 
add  it  to  the  sauce,  stir  until  just  about  to  boil ;  then  remove,  and 
strain  through  a  sieve. 

Butter  Sauce. ‚Äî Mix  1  heaping  tablespoouful  flour  with  Yg 
cupful  cold  water  in  a  saucepan ;  add  slowly  lYg  cup  boiling  water, 
stirring  constantly ;  place  the  saucepan  over  the  fire,  stir  until  it 
begins  to  boil ;  then  add,  in  small  pieces,  4  ounces  of  butter ;  season 
with  1  even  teaspoonful  salt,  boil  slowly  5  minutes,  and  serve. 

Egg  Sauce. ‚Äî Chop  fine  1  medium-sized  onion ;  put  it  with  1 
bay  leaf,  1  tablespoouful  butter,  6  coarsely-pounded  peppers,  in  a 
saucepan  over  the  fire ;  cook  5  minutes ;  add  1  heaping  tablespoouful 
flour,  stir  and  cook  2  minutes ;  add  1  pint  white  broth,  or  stock ; 
season  with  1  even  teaspoonful  salt,  Y4  teaspoonful  nutmeg;  cook 
10  minutes ;  then  strain  into  a  clean  saucepan ;  return  it  to  the  fire ; 
add  Ys  tablespoouful  butter  in  small  pieces,  mix  the  yolks  of  2  eggs 
with  1  tablespoouful  lemon  juice;  pour  them  gradually  into  the 
sauce,  being  careful  not  to  let  it  boil  again;  add  1  fine-chopped 
hard-boiled  egg  and  1  teaspoonful  fine-chopped  parsley,  and  serve. 

Parsley  Sauce. ‚Äî Melt  in  a  saucepan  2  ounces  of  butter ;  add 
1  tablespoouful  flour ;  stir  this  over  the  fire  a  few  minutes ;  then 
add  Ys  pint  boiling  milk;  season  with  Ys  teaspoonful  salt;  boil  3 
minutes;  remove  from  the  fire;  add  1  tablespoouful  fine-chopped 
parsley,  and  serve. 

Celery  Sauce. ‚Äî Prepare  1  pint  of  butter  sauce ;  add  the  yolk 
of  1  egg  and  Ys  cup  cream ;  place  1  pint  of  fine-cut  white  table  celery 


102  SAUCES. 

in  a  saucepan;  add  little  butter;  cover  with  boiling  water ;  season 
with  1  teaspoonf ul  salt,  and  boil  till  tender ;  then  drain,  add  the 
celery  to  the  butter  sauce,  and  serve  with  boiled  poultry  or  meat. 

Caper  Sauce. ‚Äî Melt  1  tablespoonf ul  butter  in  a  saucepan ;  add 

1  fine-cut  white  onion,  8  whole  peppers,  Yg  bay  leaf,  cook  3  minutes, 
without  browning,  then  add  1  heaping  tablespoonful  flour ;  stir  and 
cook  2  minutes ;  add  1  pint  of  veal  or  chicken  broth,  season  with 
Ya  teaspoonf  ul  salt,  Yi  teaspoonf  ul  grated  nutmeg ;  boil  15  minutes ; 
then  strain  through  a  sieve  into  a  clean  saucepan ;  mix  the  yolks  of 

2  eggs  with  1  tablespoonful  lemon  Juice;  add  a  little  sauce  first  to 
the  yolks,  mix  well ;  then  add  the  yolks  to  the  sauce.  Place  the 
saucepan  on  the  side  of  stove ;  add  Ys  tablespoonful  butter  in  small 
portions,  stir  5  minutes  over  the  fire,  without  letting  it  boil  again ; 
add  2  tablespoonfuls  capers,  and  serve  with  boiled  mutton  or  fish. 

Anchovy  Sauce. ‚Äî Mix  1  tablespoonful  fiour  with  Ys  cup  cold 
water  in  a  saucepan ;  add  the  yolks  of  2  eggs ;  when  this  is  well 
mixed,  add  gradually  IY2  cup  of  boiling  water ;  place  the  saucepan 
over  the  fire ;  add  2  ounces  of  butter  in  small  pieces ;  stir  constantly 
until  it  begins  to  boil ;  then  remove  to  side  of  stove,  add  1  table- 
spoonful anchovy  essence,  4  finely  pounded  boneless  anchovies; 
season  with  1  even  teaspoonful  salt  and  the  juice  of  Ys  lemon ;  mix 
well,  and  serve. 

Shrimp  Sauce. ‚Äî Mix  in  a  small  saucepan  1  heaping  table- 
spoonful flour  with  Ys  cup  cold  water ;  add  1  even  teaspoonful  salt, 
the  yolks  of  2  eggs,  and  Y4  teaspoonful  nutmeg ;  when  this  is  well 
mixed  add  slowly  IY2  cup  boiling  water,  while  stirring  constantly; 
place  the  saucepan  over  the  fire,  and  add  gradually  2  ounces  butter ; 
continue  stirring  until  just  about  to  boil ;  add  ^4  cupful  fine-cut 
shrimps,  and  1  tablespoonful  lemon  juice. 

Crab  and  Lobster  Sauce.‚Äî May  be  prepared  in  the  same  way 
as  shrimp  sauce.     Serve  with  baked  or  boiled  fish. 

Lobster  Sauce. ‚Äî Place  a  small  saucepan  with  1  tablespoonful 
fine-chopped  onion  and  1  tablespoonful  butter  over  the  fire;  add  6 


SAUCES.  103 

coarsely  pounded  black  peppers,  Yg  bay  leaf ;  cook  5  minutes;  add 
1  tablespoonful  flour,  stir  a  few  minutes ;  then  add  1  pint  boiling 
white  broth  ;  season  with  1  even  teaspoonful  salt,  Yg  even  teaspoon- 
f ul  nutmeg ;  cook  slowly  15  minutes ;  add  Ys  tablespoonful  lobster 
butter ;  mix  the  yolks  of  3  eggs  with  1  tablespoonful  lemon  juice, 
add  it  slowly  to  the  sauce,  not  letting  it  boil  again  ;  strain  through 
a  sieve  ;  add  %  cup  of  fine-cut  cooked  lobster  meat  from  the  claws. 
Serve  with  boiled  or  baked  fish. 

Mustard  Sauce  (Economical). ‚Äî Melt  1  tablespoonful  fine- 
chopped  suet ;  add  1  tablespoonful  flour,  stir  a  few  minutes ;  then 
add  1  cup  boiling  water,  and  cook  2  minutes ;  season  with  Ys  tea- 
spoonful  salt ;  remove  from  flre ;  add  Y2  tablespoonful  butter  and 
3  heaping  teaspoonfuls  French  mustard,  and  serve. 

Mustard  Sauce  a  I'Allemande. ‚Äî Mix  in  a  saucepan  1  table- 
spoonful flour  with  Ys  cup  cold  water ;  add  the  yolks  of  2  eggs,  2 
ounces  butter ;  then  add  slowly  1  cup  boiling  water,  stir  this  over 
the  flre  till  nearly  boiling  ;  add  1  even  teaspoonful  salt,  Y4  teaspoon- 
ful nutmeg,  the  juice  of  Yg  lemon,  and  Ys  tablespoonful  butter  in 
small  pieces,  Ys  tablespoonful  English  mixed  mustard  or  2  table- 
spoonfuls  French  mustard,  and  serve. 

Sauce  a  la  Stanley. ‚Äî Place  a  saucepan  with  1  tablespoonful 
butter  over  the  flre,  add  1  tablespoonful  flour  and  stir  for  5  min- 
utes, add  2  cups  boiling  milk ;  season  with  Y3  teaspoonful  nutmeg, 
1  even  teaspoonful  salt,  a  small  bouquet,  6  whole  peppers,  Y3  cupful 
mushroom  liquor,  boil  10  minutes;  then  strain,  add  1  even  tea- 
spoonful powdered  sugar,  Ys  of  a  teaspoonful  Cayenne  pepper,  3 
heaping  tablespoonful s  fresh  grated  horseradish,  2  tablespoonfuls 
cream,  cook  3  minutes,  and  serve. 

Paprika  Sauce. ‚Äî Place  2  tablespoonfuls  of  flne-cut  onions,  the 
same  of  raw  lean  ham,  carrots,  and  leek,  with  IY2  ounce  butter  in 
a  saucepan,  and  cook  5  minutes;  add  to  it  1  heaping  tablespoonful 
flour,  stir  and  cook  3  minutes ;  add  also  1  pint  bouillon  or  1  pint 


104  SAUCES. 

boiling  water,  with  1  teaspoonful  beef  extract,  Y2  even  teaspoonful 
salt,  Ya  bay  leaf,  3  whole  cloves,  and  cook  10  minutes ;  strain  into  a 
clean  saucepan,  add  Y4  teaspoonful  paprika  and  3  tablespoonfuls 
cream,  boil  4  minutes  ;  strain  again,  and  serve  with  boiled  fish. 

Truffle  Sauce. ‚Äî Melt  in  a  small  saucepan  1  ounce  butter,  add  1 
tablespoonf ul  fine-chopped  onion,  the  same  of  carrots,  Ys  bay  leaf, 
small  Ys  sprig  of  thyme,  3  coarsely  pounded  black  peppers,  cook  6 
minutes  ;  then  add  Ys  tablespoonful  flour,  stir  and  cook  3  minutes  ; 
add  1  cupful  boiling  water,  Ys  teaspoonful  beef  extract,  Ys  even  tea- 
spoonful salt,  cook  10  minutes  ;  then  strain,  place  Ys  c"P  sherry  or 
Madeira  wine  in  a  small  saucepan  over  the  fire,  add  3  tablespoon- 
fuls fine-chopped  truffles,  reduce  by  boiling  to  one  half ;  add  it  to 
the  sauce,  let  it  boil  up,  and  serve. 

Sauce  au  Salmis. ‚Äî Put  2  tablespoonfuls  fine-cut  carrot,  the 
same  of  raw  ham  and  onion,  in  a  saucepan  ;  add  2  ounces  butter ; 
place  the  saucepan  over  the  fire,  cook  until  light  brown  ;  add  1 
tablespoonful  flour,  stir  a  few  minutes ;  then  add  2  pints  of  broth, 
Y2  pint  Madeira  wine,  some  fine-chopped  carcasses  of  birds,  prairie 
chickens,  or  rabbits,  and  a  bouquet ;  cover,  and  cook  45  minutes ; 
strain  the  sauce  into  a  clean  saucepan ;  if  a  few  livers  of  prairie 
chicken  or  of  any  kind  of  birds  are  on  hand,  cook  them  in  a  little 
broth,  then  mash  them  fine,  and  add  to  the  sauce ;  finish  with  the 
juice  of  Ys  lemon,  and  serve. 

Sauce  Poivrade. ‚Äî Set  a  small  saucepan  with  1  ounce  butter 
over  the  fire  ;  add  2  tablespoonfuls  fine-chopped  shallots  or  onions, 
the  same  of  boiled  ham,  cook  5  minutes ;  then  add  Ys  cupful  stock 
or  broth,  3  tablespoonfuls  herb  vinegar,  6  crushed  black  peppers, 
and  a  small  bouquet ;  cover,  and  reduce  by  boiling  to  one  half.  In 
the  meantime  melt  Ys  tablespoonful  butter  in  a  saucepan,  add  Y2 
tablespoonful  flour,  stir  and  cook  3  minutes  ;  then  add  Ys  pint  boil- 
ing water,  1  teaspoonful  beef  extract,  Ys  ¬©ven  teaspoonful  salt,  cook 
5  minutes ;  add  the  onion,  cook  a  few  minutes ;  then  strain  and 
serve. 


SAUCES.  105 

Sauce  Robert. ‚Äî Cut  a  medium-sized  white  onion  into  small 
pieces ;  place  it  in  a  saucepan  with  Yg  tablespoonful  butter ;  cook 
until  they  obtain  a  delicate  brown  color  ;  then  add  Yg  cup  bouillon 
or  stock,  and  cook  10  minutes.  Place  in  another  small  saucepan 
Ys  tablespoonful  butter,  add  Y2  tablespoonful  flour ;  stir  a  few 
minutes ;  add  Ys  pint  boiling  water,  1  teaspoonful  beef  extract,  Ya 
even  teaspoonful  salt,  4  tablespoonfuls  white  wine,  1  teaspoonful 
mushroom  essence ;  cook  slowly  6  minutes ;  then  strain ;  add  the 
onions  and  1  teaspoonful  English  mustard  (mixed),  or  1  table- 
spoonful French  mustard.  This  sauce  may  be  served  as  it  is,  or 
strained. 

Sauce  a  la  Tenaison. ‚Äî Put  in  a  saucepan  2  cloves,  4  coarsely 
pounded  black  peppers,  1  tablespoonful  fine-cut  onions,  Ys  bay  leaf, 
Y3  cup  white  vinegar ;  place  the  saucepan  over  the  fire ;  reduce  by 
boiling  to  one  third ;  then  strain ;  set  this  essence  aside  until  the 
following  sauce  is  prepared  :  Place  a  saucepan  with  1  ounce  butter 
over  the  fire ;  add  1  chopped  onion,  a  little  carrot,  and  fine-chopped 
ham ;  cook  5  minutes ;  add  1  tablespoonful  fiour,  stir,  and  cook  3 
minutes  ;  add  1  pint  of  soup  stock,  a  bouquet,  Y2  teaspoonful  salt,  Y4 
teaspoonful  pepper ;  cook  10  minutes ;  add  the  prepared  essence, 
cook  3  minutes,  then  strain;  add  Ys  cupful  currant  jelly  and  1 
tablespoonful  lemon  juice.  This  sauce  is  served  with  game;  if 
stock  is  not  handy,  take  water  and  beef  extract ;  or  prepare  a 
little  stock  of  the  remnants  of  the  game. 

Chestnut  Sauce. ‚Äî Set  a  saucepan  with  1  ounce  butter  over 
the  fire ;  add  1  tablespoonful  fine-chopped  onion,  the  same  of  fine- 
chopped  carrots  and  celery ;  cook  5  minutes ;  add  1  tablespoonful 
flour,  stir,  and  cook  3  minutes ;  add  lYs  cupful  boiling  water,  1  tea- 
spoonful beef  extract,  a  small  bouquet ;  season  with  1  teaspoonful 
salt ;  boil  10  minutes,  then  strain  ;  at  the  same  time  place  in  a 
small  saucepan  1  tablespoonful  fine-chopped  shallots ;  add  Ys  cup 
claret ;  cook  10  minutes ;  then  strain  ;  add  it  to  the  sauce  ;  season 
with  Y4  teaspoonful  red  pepper  ;  boil  6  large  chestnuts  20  minutes  ; 


106  SAUCES. 

remove  the  shell  and  cut  the  uuts  into  fine  slices  ;  add  them  to  the 
sauce  ;  boil  5  minutes  and  serve. 

Sauce  a  la  Diable. ‚Äî Place  a  saucepan  with  2  tablespoonfuls 
fine-chopped  white  onion  and  1  tablespoonful  butter  over  the  fire ; 
add  1  ounce  fine-cut  boiled  ham  ;  cook  5  minutes ;  add  Y2  cupful 
white  vinegar,  6  coarsely  jDounded  black  peppers,  a  small  bouquet ; 
cover  and  cook  till  reduced  to  one  half.  Melt  1  tablespoonful  butter ; 
add  1  fine-chopped  onion,  the  same  of  carrot  and  celery,  cook  5 
minutes  ;  add  1  tablespoonful  flour,  stir,  and  cook  3  minutes  ;  then 
add  1  pint  boiling  water,  1  tablespoonful  liquid  beef  extract,  1  even 
teaspoonful  salt,  Yg  cupful  stewed  or  canned  tomatoes,  Y4  teaspoon- 
ful  pepper,  and  a  small  bouquet ;  cook  slowly  10  minutes ;  then 
strain.  Strain  also  the  above  essence ;  mix  it  with  1  teaspoonful 
sugar;  add  to  the  sauce;  return  it  to  the  fire;  cook  3  minutes; 
season  with  a  little  Cayenne  pepper,  add  a  small  piece  of  butter,  and 
serve. 


COLD  SAUCES. 

Remoladen  Sauce. ‚Äî Take  a  sprig  of  parsley,  a  little  chervil, 
tarragon,  and  1  shallot ;  place  them  into  boiling  water,  to  remain 
therein  a  minute ;  then  remove  them,  inclose  in  a  napkin,  and  press 
out  all  the  water ;  add  1  tablespoonful  capers,  and  chop  the  whole 
as  fine  as  possible.  Put  the  yolk  of  3  hard-boiled  eggs  into  a  bowl, 
rub  them  fine,  and  mix  with  1  raw  yolk ;  then  add  slowly  Yg  cupful 
olive  oil ;  next  add  1  teaspoonful  English  mustard,  1  even  teaspoon- 
ful  salt,  Ys  even  teaspoonful  white  pepper,  4  tablespoonfuls  herb 
vinegar  ;  if  not  handy,  add  white  vinegar  ;  wash  6  anchovies  several 
times  in  cold  water,  free  them  from  skin  and  bones,  and  pound 
fine ;  add  them  with  the  other  ingredients  to  the  sauce ;  mix  well 
and  serve.  Or  mix  this  sauce  with  2  pounds  fine-chopped  boiled 
ham  and  use  for  sandwiches. 

Sauce  Tartare. ‚Äî Stir  the  yolk  of  2  eggs  to  a  cream;  add 
gradually  while  stirring  constantly,  drop  by  drop,  Y*  cupful  oil ; 
then  1  tablespoonful  of  tarragon  vinegar,  Ys  teaspoonful  English 
mustard,  1  even  teaspoonful  salt,  Y*  teaspoonful  white  pepper,  1 
tablespoonful  finely  chopped  shallots,  1  tablespoonful  fine-chopped 
capers  ;  mix  well  and  serve. 

German  Tartare  Sauce. ‚Äî Put  the  yolks  of  2  eggs  into  a 
bowl ;  add  1  even  teaspoonful  salt,  Ys  teaspoonful  English  mustard, 
a  little  red  pepper  ;  stir  this  2  minutes ;  then  add  drop  by  drop  6 
tablespoonfuls  olive  oil  and  1  tablespoonful  white  vinegar ;  next 
add  1  tablespoonful  fine-chopped  shallots,  1  tablespoonful  fine- 
chopped  capers,  1  teaspoonful  fine-chopped  parsley,  and,  if  handy, 
Ys  teaspoonful  of  fine-chopped  tarragon  and  the  same  of  chervil ; 
8  107 


108  COLD  SAUCES. 

add  also  1  teaspoonful  anchovy  essence,  Y4  teaspoonfiil  white  pep- 
per ;  mix  all  well  together ;  add  last  Yg  cup  of  whipped  cream,  and 
serve. 

Vinegretti  Sauce. ‚Äî Put  the  yolk  of  1  hard-boiled  egg  into  a 
small  bowl ;  rub  it  fine ;  add  gradually  3  tablespoonfuls  oil ;  then 
add  3  tablespoonfuls  fine-chopped  shallots  or  white  onions,  1  even 
tablespoonf ul  salt,  1  even  teaspoonful  white  pepper,  3  tablespoonfuls 
white  vinegar,  and  serve. 

Herring  Sauce. ‚Äî Soak  1  herring  in  milk  for  12  hours ;  then 
remove  it ;  wash  and  free  it  from  skin  and  bones ;  chop  the  herring 
meat  as  fine  as  possible.  Put  the  yolk  of  3  hard-boiled  eggs  in  a 
bowl,  rub  them  fine  ;  add  slowly  3  tablespoonfuls  of  oil,  then  3  to  4 
tablespoonfuls  vinegar,  1  even  teaspoonful  salt,  1  even  teaspoonful 
white  pepper,  3  tablespoonfuls  grated  horseradish,  and  the  herring. 

Radish  Sauce. ‚Äî Clean  and  grate  4  black  radishes;  mix  to- 
gether 3  tablespoonfuls  oil,  3  tablespoonfuls  vinegar,  1  teaspoonful 
salt ;  add  the  grated  radish,  and  serve  with  soup  meat. 

Mint  Sauce. ‚Äî Two  hours  before  serving  mix  2  tablespoonfuls 
fine-chopped  mint  with  2  tablespoonfuls  water,  4  tablespoonfuls 
vinegar,  1  tablespoonful  sugar,  V2  teaspoonful  salt.  Serve  with 
roasted  lamb.     Some  prefer  boiling  the  sauce  a  few  minutes. 

Chantilly  Sauce. ‚Äî Mix  the  yolk  of  1  hard-boiled  egg  with  1 
raw  yolk ;  add  slowly  4  tablespoonfuls  olive  oil ;  then  add  2  cloves 
of  fine-chopped  shallots  or  a  small  white  onion,  1  tablespoonful 
fine-chopped  capers ;  season  with  1  teaspoonful  salt,  Yo  teaspoonful 
white  pepper ;  chop  the  hard-boiled  white  of  egg  very  fine,  add  it 
with  3  tablespoonfuls  vinegar  and  Ys  teaspoonful  of  sugar  to  the 
sauce ;  when  this  is  well  mixed  add  3  tablespoonfuls  whipped  cream, 
and  serve. 

Latana  Sauce. ‚Äî Break  1  egg  in  a  bowl  and  beat  it  2  minutes  ; 
add  slowly  3  tablespoonfuls  oil ;  then  add  3  tablespoonfuls  vinegar 
and  1  small  white  onion  chopped  exceedingly  fine ;  season  with  1 


COLD  SAUCES.  109 

even  tablespoonf ul  salt,  1  even  teaspoonful  white  pepper ;  mix  all 
together,  and  serve  with  boiled  meat. 

Benton  Sauce. ‚Äî Mix  1  teaspoonful  dry  English  mustard 
with  1  teaspoonful  sugar,  Yg  teaspoonful  salt ;  add  slowly  4  table- 
spoonfuls  white  vinegar  and  2  tablespoonfuls  grated  horseradish. 
Let  it  stand  several  hours,  and  serve  with  cold  meat. 

Englisli  Mustard ‚Äî How  to  mix. ‚Äî Put  2  tablespoonfuls  mus- 
tard into  a  small  bowl ;  add  Yg  teaspoonful  salt,  the  same  of  sugar ; 
moisten  with  2  tablespoonfuls  white  vinegar ;  when  this  is  well 
mixed  add,  drop  by  drop,  1  tablespoonf  ul  olive  oil ;  fill  into  a  mus- 
tard cup,  cover  and  let  it  stand  24  hours,  then  use. 

German  Cream  Sauce  for  Lettuce. ‚Äî Mix  Ys  pint  thick  sour 
cream  with  Y2  tablespoonf  ul  of  vinegar,  a  sprinkle  of  salt,  1  table- 
spoonful  sugar,  and  serve. 

Egg  Sauce  for  Lettuce. ‚Äî Fry  1  tablespoonful  very  fine-cut 
larding  pork  light  brown  and  crisp  ;  mix  it  with  2  well-beaten  eggs, 
2  tablespoonfuls  vinegar,  a  sprinkle  of  salt,  and  1  tablespoonful 
sugar,  and  serve. 

Cold  Game  Sauce. ‚Äî Put  the  yolk  of  3  hard-boiled  eggs  into 
a  bowl ;  rub  them  fine ;  add  slowly,  while  stirring  constantly,  4  table- 
spoonfuls oil,  then  add  2  tablespoonfuls  French  mustard,  Ys  giU  of 
vinegar,  1  tablespoonful  sugar,  and  1  tablespoonful  juniper  berries. 

Rayigote  Sauce. ‚Äî Rub  the  yolks  of  3  hard-boiled  eggs  fine ; 
add  slowly,  while  stirring  constantly,  4  tablespoonfuls  oil ;  then  1 
even  teaspoonful  salt,  Ya  even  teaspoonful  white  pepper,  1  table- 
spoonful fine-chopped  capers,  the  same  of  fine- chopped  parsley  and 
olives;  lastly  2  tablespoonfuls  white  vinegar  and  1  tablespoonful 
tarragon  vinegar. 

Sauce  a  la  Maitre  d'Hotel. ‚Äî Mix  1  tablespoonful  flour  with 
Y2  cup  cold  water  ;  add  the  yolks  of  2  eggs,  1  even  teaspoonful  salt ; 
when  this  is  well  mixed  add  slowly  lYg  cup  boiling  water,  place  the 
saucepan  over  the  fire,  and  stir  till  nearly  boiling ;  then  add  slowly, 


110  COLD  SAUCES. 

in  small  pieces,  2  ounces  butter,  Y^  teaspoonful  nutmeg,  the  juice  of 
Va  lemon,  and  1  tablespoonful  fine-chopped  parsley. 

Horseradish‚Äî How  to  prepare  for  the  Tahle.‚Äî Add  to  1 

cupful  grated  horseradish  Yg  cup  white  vinegar,  1  teaspoonful  sugar, 
and  Y2  teaspoonful  salt ;  mix  well  together ;  put  it  into  small  glass 
jars  with  a  cover ;  let  it  stand  several  hours ;  then  serve  with  roasted 
meat  or  cold  meats. 

Mayonnaise. ‚Äî Put  into  a  bowl  the  yolks  of  2  eggs ;  add  1  even 
teaspoonful  salt,  stir  3  minutes ;  then  add,  drop  by  drop,  1  cupful 
olive  oil ;  as  it  thickens  add  a  few  drops  of  vinegar,  about  Ys  table- 
spoonful  in  all,  the  same  of  lemon  juice,  and  a  little  dry  mustard. 
Cayenne  pepper  may  be  added  if  liked. 

German  Mayonnaise. ‚Äî Put  the  yolks  of  2  eggs  in  a  bowl; 
add  1  even  teaspoonful  salt,  stir  this  a  few  minutes,  then  add  a 
few  drops  of  olive  oil ;  stir  again  a  few  minutes ;  continue  the  stir- 
ring, adding  oil  till  Y2  pint  of  it  has  been  used  ;  add  1  teaspoonful 
herb  vinegar  (if  not  at  hand  take  white  vinegar) ;  stir  until  the  in- 
gredients have  formed  into  a  thick  smooth  sauce.  In  the  mean- 
time mix  1  teaspoonful  cornstarch  with  a  little  cdd  water ;  add  Yz 
cupful  boiling  water,  and  place  it  over  the  fire  ;  add  1  teaspoonful 
butter  and  stir  till  it  boils ;  then  add  2  tablespoonf uls  cream,  a  little 
salt,  and  1  teaspoonful  lemon  juice ;  when  this  is  cold  add  it  to  the 
above  mayonnaise. 


BUTTERS,  Etc. 

Melted  Butter. ‚Äî Put  Yg  cup  butter  into  a  small  saucepan,  set 
the  saucepan  in  a  vessel  of  boiling  water  over  the  fire ;  as  soon  as 
the  butter  is  melted,  remove  the  scum,  pour  the  butter  slowly  into  a 
sauce  bowl  without  the  sediment  on  the  bottom. 

Black  Butter  Sauce. ‚Äî Place  a  small  saucepan  with  Y4  cup  of 
vinegar,  Yg  bay  leaf,  a  sprinkle  of  salt  and  pepper,  over  the  fire ;  re- 
duce by  boiling  to  one  half ;  put  in  a  small  saucepan  2  ounces  of 
butter,  let  it  melt  and  get  dark  brown,  then  pour  it  into  the  vine- 
gar ;  remove  the  bay  leaf  and  serve. 

Seasoning  Butter. ‚Äî Stir  4  ounces  of  butter  to  a  cream,  add  1 
once  salt,  Y4  ounce  pepper ;  mix  well  together ;  then  put  it  into  a 
glass  jar,  cover  closely  and  set  in  a  cool  place ;  to  be  used  for  broiled 
and  fried  steaks  and  chops,  also  fish. 

Maitre  d'Hotel  Butter. ‚Äî Put  2  ounces  of  butter  in  a  small 
bowl,  stir  it  to  a  cream ;  add  slowly  2  tablespoonf  uls  of  lemon  juice, 
a  few  drops  at  a  time,  1  teaspoonful  grated  nutmeg,  and  1  table- 
spoonful  fine-chopped  parsley. 

Scallion  Butter. ‚Äî One  teaspoonful  fine-chopped  parsley,  the 
same  of  chives,  tarragon,  and  chervil,  1  fine-chopped  shallot,  a  few 
drops  of  spinach  green,  and  1  fine-minced  anchovy  without  skin  or 
bones ;  mix  all  well  together  with  2  tablespoonfuls  butter  and  press 
through  a  sieve. 

Horseradish  Butter. ‚Äî Mix  1  tablespoonful  grated  horse- 
radish with  1  tablespoonful  butter  and  a  little  Cayenne  pepper. 
When  this  butter  is  used  for  sauce  it  must  not  boil. 

Ill 


112  BUTTERS,  Etc. 

Crawfish  Butter. ‚Äî Eemove  the  meat  from  25  boiled  crawfish, 
dry  the  shells,  put  them  with  4  ounces  of  butter  into  a  mortar,  and 
pound  fine;  place  them  in  a  saucepan  over  the  fire,  and  stir  5 
minutes ;  add  1  pint  boiling  water,  cook  5  minutes ;  then  strain 
through  a  napkin  into  cold  water;  as  soon  as  the  butter  is  cold  and 
firm,  remove  from  the  water,  place  it  in  a  small  saucepan  and  stir 
a  few  minutes  over  the  fire ;  it  is  then  ready  to  use.  It  may  be  put 
in  a  small  glass  jar  and  set  in  a  cool  place. 

Lobster  Butter  is  prepared  the  same  as  Crawfish  Butter, 
adding  to  the  dried  shells  of  2  boiled  lobsters  4  ounces  butter. 

Lobster  Coral  Butter. ‚Äî Extract  the  coral  from  1  boiled 
lobster ;  pound  it  in  a  mortar  to  a  paste ;  mix  with  Yi  pound  butter, 
and  press  through  a  fine  sieve.  This  butter  is  mostly  used  for 
coloring  purposes. 

Anchovy  Butter.‚Äî Eemove  the  skin  and  bones  from  12 
anchovies,  wash  and  dry  them ;  then  mince  very  fine  ;  mix  with  3 
ounces  butter,  and  press  through  a  sieve ;  use  for  sauces. 

Crab  Butter. ‚Äî Made  same  as  Lobster  Butter. 

Parsley,  Fried. ‚Äî Einse  a  handful  of  fresh  parsley  in  cold 
water,  remove  the  large  stems,  and  lay  the  parsley  in  a  napkin  to 
dry ;  then  throw  it  in  a  kettle  of  hot  lard,  let  it  fry  1  minute ;  re- 
move with  a  skimmer  ;  lay  it  on  blotting  paper,  sprinkle  over  some 
fine  salt,  and  set  it  in  a  warm  place  until  ready  to  serve. 

Olives ‚Äî How  to  prepare. ‚Äî Take  only  fine  green  olives  that 
are  not  too  salt,  cut  them  open  and  remove  the  pits ;  lay  the  olives 
Ya  hour  in  lukewarm  water,  to  remove  the  salt,  then  rinse  off  with 
cold  water,  and  dry  in  a  napkin  ;  the  olives  are  then  ready  either  to 
be  filled  with  forcemeat,  or  may  be  cut  into  small  pieces,  and  boiled 
a  few  minutes  in  a  sauce.  For  decorating  cold  dishes  they  are 
generally  filled  with  anchovy  butter. 


ESSENCES,    Etc. 

Essence  of  Mushrooms.‚Äî Clean,  wash,  and  chop  fine  2 
pounds  of  fresh  mushrooms,  put  them  in  a  saucepan  with  1  tea- 
spoonful  salt  and  the  juice  of  2  lemons ;  cover  the  saucepan,  let 
simmer  for  5  minutes ;  then  add  1  quart  of  white  stock  or  broth, 
boil  slowly  for  40  minutes.  Strain  through  a  napkin,  fill  the  essence 
into  small  bottles,  cork  tightly,  and  save  for  further  use.  The 
essence  is  used  for  soups,  sauces,  and  ragouts. 

Essence  of  Truffles. ‚Äî Boil  1  pound  fresh  truffles  with  Yg  pint 
claret  and  1  pint  brown  stock  1  hour ;  then  strain  through  a  nap- 
kin, fill  the  essence  into  small  bottles,  and  use  for  sauces,  soups,  and 
ragouts. 

Essence  of  Spice. ‚Äî Mix  Yg  ounce  of  ground  ginger,  the  same 
of  cloves  and  mace,  1  ounce  mustard,  Ys  ounce  fine-cut  garlic,  Ys 
tablespoonful  whole  pepper,  1  cupful  grated  horseradish,  4  bay 
leaves,  1  tablespoonful  salt ;  take  2  cupf uls  shelled  walnuts,  pour 
boiling  water  over  them,  remove  the  brown  skin,  and  lay  them  in  a 
glass  jar  in  alternate  layers  with  the  spice,  cover  with  1  quart  of  the 
best  white  vinegar,  screw  the  cover  on  tightly,  and  set  the  jar  in  the 
sun  for  2  or  3  weeks  ;  then  put  the  essence  through  filtering  paper, 
fill  into  small  bottles,  and  use  for  sauces  or  for  whatever  these  spices 
are  used  in. 

Essence  of  Anchovies. ‚Äî Wash  in  several  waters  12  anchovies; 
put  them  with  Y2  cup  water,  Y2  cup  white  wine  in  a  small  saucepan 
over  the  fire ;  add  1  onion,  6  whole  peppers,  and  a  small  bouquet ; 
stew  slowly  for  15  minutes  ;  strain  through  a  napkin  ;  fill  in  a  small 
bottle,  and  set  in  a  cool  place. 

113 


114  ESSENCES,  Etc. 

Essence  of  Game. ‚Äî Place  a  saucepan  with  Y2  tablespoonful 
butter  over  the  fire ;  add  2  tablespoonfuls  fine-chopped  raw  ham, 
the  same  of  carrots  and  onions ;  add  a  bouquet  and  6  whole  peppers; 
over  this  lay  some  fine-chopped  bones  and  remnants  of  any  kind  of 
birds,  prairie  chickens,  or  rabbits,  either  cooked  or  raw ;  add  1  pint 
broth  or  soup  stock,  Yg  pint  Madeira  wine,  cover  and  boil  until  the 
bouillon  has  boiled  away  and  the  bottom  of  saucepan  is  covered 
with  a  brown  gravy ;  then  add  sufficient  broth  to  cover,  boil  1  hour, 
strain  through  a  napkin,  and  use  for  sauces. 

Essence  of  Fish. ‚Äî Place  1  sliced  onion  in  a  saucepan,  add  2 
cloves,  6  coarsely  crushed  peppers,  1  sprig  of  thyme,  the  same  of  mar- 
joram and  parsley ;  over  this  lay  some  remnants  of  raw  fish ‚Äî such 
as  bones,  skin,  head,  etc.,  or  take  a  whole  fish ;  cover  with  1  pint 
white  broth,  and  cook  till  it  is  dry  ;  cover  the  whole  with  broth,  add 
Y2  pint  white  wine,  and  cook  40  minutes ;  then  strain  through  a 
napkin.  This  essence  is  mostly  used  in  sauces  which  are  to  be 
served  with  the  same  fish  the  essence  is  made  of. 

Essence  of  Poultry. ‚Äî Chop  fine  the  bones  and  remnants  of 
ducks,  turkeys,  or  chickens,  place  them  in  a  saucepan ;  add  1  pint 
of  white  broth,  cover  and  cook  till  dry,  then  add  sufficient  broth  to 
cover  all ;  add  a  bouquet,  1  onion,  1  leek,  cover  and  cook  2  hours ; 
strain  through  a  napkin,  return  the  liquid  to  saucepan ;  reduce  it 
by  boiling  to  one  half ;  remove  the  fat,  fill  the  essence  into  small 
bottles,  close  tightly,  and  set  in  a  cool  place  until  wanted. 

Fine  Herlbs. ‚Äî Chop  fine  6  shallots,  place  them  with  1  ounce 
butter  over  the  fire,  cook  3  minutes ;  then  add  Y2  cupful  fine- 
chopped  mushrooms,  cook  slowly  10  minutes ;  remove  from  fire ; 
dip  2  sprigs  of  parsley  in  boiling  water,  instantly  remove,  chop  fine, 
add  1  tablespoonful  of  it  to  the  above  preparation ;  season  with  Y2 
teaspoonful  salt,  and  the  same  of  grated  nutmeg.  If  not  used  all 
at  once,  put  it  in  a  small  glass  jar,  cover  with  buttered  paper,  and 
keep  in  a  cool  place. 


ESSENCES,  Etc.  115 

Essence  of  Chicken. ‚Äî May  be  prepared  of  carcasses  of  roast 
poultry  ;  or  reduce  by  boiling  3  pints  of  chicken  broth  to  1  pint. 

Seasoning  Salt. ‚Äî Mix  together  4  tablespoonfuls  salt  and  1 
tablespoonful  white  pepper,  and  use  for  seasoning. 

Herbs  Salt. ‚Äî Take  of  bay  leaves,  thyme,  sweet  basil,  and  mar- 
joram each  Y2  ounce,  lay  them  in  a  pan  and  dry  in  a  slow  oven, 
with  the  door  open,  then  grind  them  fine  in  a  small  spice  mill ; 
sift  through  a  wire  sieve,  and  mix  with  1  tablespoonful  salt,  Yg 
teaspoonful  ground  cloves,  74  teaspoonful  allspice,  Y4  ounce  white 
pepper,  Y^  teaspoonful  ground  mace,  Y2  nutmeg  grated;  mix  all 
together,  put  it  in  a  glass  jar,  close  tightly,  and  use  for  seasoning. 


SEA   FOOD,    Etc. 

OYSTERS. 

In  Season  September  1st  to  May  1st. 

Oysters,  Fried. ‚Äî Procure  large  fresh  oysters,  lift  them  out  of 
their  liquor  with  a  fork,  dry  on  a  napkin ;  roll  some  fresh  soda 
crackers  on  a  pastry  hoard  with  a  rolling  pin ;  beat  2  eggs  in  a 
soupplate  until  light ;  dust  the  oysters  with  flour,  then  take  each  one 
separately  on  a  larding  needle,  dip  first  in  the  beaten  egg,  then  roll 
in  cracker  crumbs  ;  lay  the  oysters  thus  prepared  on  a  clean  board 
or  dish  for  30  minutes.  Place  a  frying  pan  with  1  ounce  pure  lard 
and  1  ounce  butter  over  the  fire ;  as  soon  as  melted  put  in  as  many 
oysters  as  will  conveniently  lie  in  the  pan,  fry  light  brown  on  both 
sides,  adding  more  butter  and  lard  if  necessary ;  when  the  first 
panful  is  fried,  remove  all  the  black  crumbs  from  the  pan,  or  wash 
it  out,  put  in  fresh  lard  and  butter,  and  fry  the  remaining  oysters 
the  same  way.  Serve  on  a  hot  dish  with  cut  lemon,  bread,  and 
butter. 

Oysters  a  la  Yidricaire,  No.  1. ‚Äî Place  in  a  chafing  dish  1 
tablespoonful  butter ;  when  melted  add  18  medium-sized  oysters 
without  their  juice,  1  teaspoonful  seasoning  salt,  1  tablespoonful 
white  wine  or  lemon  juice,  cook  6  minutes ;  mix  the  yolks  of  3 
eggs  with  1  cupful  cream,  add  it  to  the  oysters,  stir  until  nearly 
boiling,  remove  instantly,  pour  into  a  deep  dish,  and  serve  with 
crackers  or  bread  and  butter. 

Oysters  a  la  Maitre  d'Hotel.‚Äî Fry  the  oysters  the  same  as 
in  foregoing  recipe,  dress  them  on  a  hot  dish,  and  spread  over  some 

116 


SEA  FOOD,  Etc.  117 

maitre  d'hotel  butter.    Fried  oysters  may  also  be  served  with  tar- 
tare  sauce. 

Oyster  Stew  with  Milk. ‚Äî Place  1  pint  milk  over  the  fire  to 
‚Ä¢  boil ;  procure  1  quart  of  solid  fresh  oysters,  lift  them  with  a  fork  out 
their  liquor  into  a  saucepan,  strain  the  liquor  through  a  sieve  over  the 
oysters  ;  add  1  tablespoonful  butter,  3  tablespoonfuls  cracker  crumbs, 
1  even  teaspoonful  seasoning  salt ;  set  over  the  fire,  boil  2  minutes ; 
add  the  boiled  milk  and  serve  with  oyster  crackers  and  butter. 

Oyster  Stew. ‚Äî Lift  1  quart  of  oysters  out  of  their  liquor  with 
a  fork,  strain  the  liquor  into  a  saucepan,  add  the  oysters,  4  table- 
spoonfuls  rolled  crackers,  Yg  even  teaspoonful  salt,  Yg  even  teaspoon- 
ful white  pepper,  1  ounce  butter,  Ys  pint  cold  water  ;  place  over  the 
fire,  and  boil  2  minutes ;  instantly  remove.  Put  1  tablespoonful 
milk  in  each  soup  plate,  pour  in  the  stew,  and  serve  with  oyster 
crackers  and  fine-cut  raw  cabbage.  Mustard,  vinegar,  pepper,  salt, 
and  catsup  should  be  placed  on  the  table.  This  will  make  6  small 
or  4  large  plates  of  stew. 

Box  Stew. ‚Äî For  a  family  of  six,  take  3  dozen  large  fresh 
oysters  ;  place  the  oysters  with  Ya  pint  of  their  strained  liquor  in  a 
saucepan  over  the  fire ;  add  1  tablespoonful  butter,  1  teaspoonful 
salt,  1  even  teaspoonful  white  pepper,  boil  2  minutes ;  remove  in- 
stantly, and  serve  with  fine-shaved  cabbage,  crackers,  and  butter. 

Cream  Stew. ‚Äî For  a  family  of  six,  take  3  pints  of  fresh  oysters ; 
transfer  the  oysters  to  a  saucepan ;  strain  the  juice,  add  it  to  the 
oysters ;  place  over  the  fire,  add  1  tablespoonful  butter,  1  teaspoon- 
ful salt,  boil  2  minutes ;  then  draw  the  saucepan  to  side  of  stove. 
Mix  the  yolks  of  3  eggs  with  1  cupful  cream,  add  this  slowly  to  the 
oysters,  set  it  for  a  few  minutes  over  the  fire ;  stir  till  nearly  boil- 
ing ;  then  remove  and  serve. 

Creamed  Oysters  on  Toast. ‚Äî Toast  6  slices  of  bread  to  a 
delicate  brown  color,  butter  and  lay  them  on  a  warm  dish.  Place 
18  medium-sized  oysters  in  a  saucepan  over  the  fire,  add  Y2  cup  of 


118  SEA  FOOD,  Etc. 

their  strained  juice,  Yg  teaspoonful  salt,  mix  Yo  tablespoonful  butter 
with  1  even  teaspoonful  cornstarch ;  as  soon  as  the  oysters  begin  to 
boil,  add  the  cornstarch  and  butter,  boil  2  minutes ;  then  draw  the 
saucepan  to  side  of  stove  and  add  ^4  cupful  boiling  cream ;  put  3 
oysters  on  each  piece  of  toast  and  pour  the  sauce  over  the  whole, 
then  serve. 

Oysters  a  la  Creme,  German  Style. ‚Äî Place  24  large  oysters 
without  their  juice  in  a  saucepan ;  add  the  juice  of  1  lemon,  1  ounce 
butter,  Y4  teaspoonful  white  pepper,  1  even  teaspoonful  salt ;  place 
over  the  fire  and  let  come  to  a  boil,  then  draw  to  side  of  stove. 
Melt  in  another  saucepan  1  ounce  butter,  add  Y2  tablespoonful  flour, 
stir  and  cook  3  minutes ;  add  1  cupful  chicken  broth,  Y4  cupful 
mushroom  liquor ;  cook  5  minutes ;  season  with  a  little  salt  and 
white  pepper.  Mix  the  yolks  of  3  eggs  with  ^4  cupful  cream,  add 
it  slowly  to  the  sauce,  let  it  get  hot  without  boiling  ;  add  the  oysters, 
and  serve  on  a  hot  dish  with  a  border  of  fleurons,  and  serve.  In 
place  of  lemon  juice,  Y2  cupful  Ehine  wine  may  be  used. 

Oysters  a  la  Newburg. ‚Äî Place  25  large  oysters  without  their 
liquor  in  a  saucepan,  add  1  tablespoonful  butter,  1  gill  of  white  wine, 
season  with  1  even  teaspoonful  salt  and  Y2  e^'cn  teaspoonful  pepper, 
cook  a  few  minutes,  until  the  oysters  stiffen  ;  then  draw  them  to 
side  of  stove.  Place  in  another  saucepan  1  gill  of  fine-cut  mush- 
rooms and  1  fine-cut  truffle,  add  Ys  ounce  butter  and  Y2  giU  of  mush- 
room liquor  ;  cook  5  minutes.  Mix  the  yolks  of  4  eggs  with  Ys  P"it 
of  rich  sweet  cream,  add  them  to  the  mushrooms,  add  the  oysters; 
let  it  get  hot  without  boiling,  and  serve  with  fleurons,  finger  rolls, 
or  crackers. 

Creamed  Oysters  a  la  Carey. ‚Äî Place  a  saucepan  with  18  large 
oysters,  without  their  liquor,  over  the  fire,  add  1  ounce  butter,  1  even 
teaspoonful  salt,  Y2  even  teaspoonful  white  pepper,  cook  2  minutes,  or 
until  the  oysters  begin  to  ruffle  ;  then  mix  the  yolks  of  2  eggs  with 
Y2  pint  of  cream  ;  add  it  to  the  oysters,  stir  over  the  fire  till  nearly 
boiling  ;  instantly  remove  and  serve. 


SEA  FOOD,  Etc.  119 

Oyster  Patties. ‚Äî Place  12  medium-sized  oysters  in  a  small 
saucepan,  add  Yg  tablespoonful  butter,  Y4  even  teaspoonful  white 
pepper,  Yg  even  teaspoonful  salt ;  put  over  the  fire,  and  cook  until 
the  oysters  begin  to  ruflQe ;  then  mix  the  yolks  of  2  eggs  with  Y2 
cupful  cream,  add  to  the  oysters,  stir  over  the  fire  until  nearly  boil- 
ing; then  instantly  remove  and  fill  them  into  6  hot  patty  cases. 
For  Patty  Cases,  see  my  book.  Desserts  and  Salads,  recipe  711. 

Oysters‚Äî Served  Raw. ‚Äî Wash  the  oysters  well  in  cold  water ; 
have  them  opened  on  the  deep  shell  to  preserve  their  liquor ;  cover 
the  bottom  of  deep  oyster  plates  with  shaved  ice,  place  the  oysters 
on  top,  and  serve  ;  or  put  a  small  napkin  over  the  ice  and  arrange 
the  oysters  on  the  napkin.  Another  way  is  to  place  the  oysters  for 
15  minutes  on  shaved  ice,  arrange  them  without  ice  on  plates,  and 
serve  with  lemons  cut  into  quarters. 

Raw  Oysters  with  Chantilly  Sauce. ‚Äî Mix  in  a  bowl  1  table- 
spoonful  very  finely  chopped  shallots,  1  even  teaspoonful  salt,  Ys 
even  teaspoonful  pepper,  Ys  tablespoonful  fine-chopped  chives,  1 
tablespoonful  olive  oil,  Y2  tablespoonful  tarragon  vinegar,  4  table- 
spoonfuls  white  vinegar,  and  Ys  teaspoonful  pepper  sauce.  Serve 
the  oysters  on  the  half  shell,  pour  a  little  of  the  sauce  over  each,  or 
serve  the  rest  in  a  sauce  bowl  with  the  oysters. 

Roasted  Oysters. ‚Äî Wash  the  oysters  several  times  in  cold  wa- 
ter, lay  them  on  a  broiler  on  a  clear,  strong  fire ;  as  soon  as  they 
open  take  them  off ;  remove  one  half  of  the  shell,  leaving  the  oyster 
in  the  other.  Put  a  small  piece  of  butter  over  each  oyster,  and 
serve,  or  they  can  be  served  with  maitre  d'hotel  butter. 

Oyster  Frites  a  la  Bearnaise. ‚Äî Blanch  24  large  oysters  in 
their  own  Juice ;  drain,  ^d  put  the  oysters  in  a  covered  dish  with  1 
teaspoonful  seasoning  salt,  1  finely  sliced  onion,  the  juice  of  1 
lemon,  Y2  bunch  of  parsley,  cover,  and  let  them  marinate  1  hour. 
Shortly  before  serving  mix  the  yolks  of  2  eggs  with  Ya  cup  milk,  1 
teaspoonful  butter,  Yi  teaspoonful  salt,  the  same  of  pepper,  2  table- 


120  SEA  FOOD,  Etc. 

spoonfuls  flour,  and  the  beaten  whites ;  wipe  the  oysters  dry,  dust 
with  flour,  dip  in  the  batter,  and  fry  in  boiling  fat  to  a  delicate 
brown.  Pour  Yg  pint  Bearnaise  sauce  on  a  warm  dish,  dress  the 
oysters  over  it,  and  serve  with  French  bread  and  butter. 

Oysters  en  Brochette. ‚Äî Place  2  dozen  oysters  in  a  saucepan  ; 
add  1  cup  of  their  liquor,  1  teaspoonful  seasoning  salt,  boil  1  minute ; 
then  drain ;  inclose  each  oyster  in  a  thin  slice  of  bacon ;  take  6 
skewers,  put  4  oysters  on  each,  brush  over  with  a  little  melted  but- 
ter ;  lay  the  skewers  on  a  double  broiler,  and  broil  2  minutes  on  each 
side ;  dress  on  a  warm  dish,  spread  over  1  ounce  maitre  d'hotel  but- 
ter, garnish  with  parsley,  and  serve  with  French  bread. 

Oyster  Puree  on  Toast.‚Äî Place  12  large  oysters  with  their 
liquor  in  a  saucepan  over  the  fire ;  when  beginning  to  boil  take  the 
oysters  out  of  their  liquor,  and  chop  them  fine.  Melt  in  another 
saucepan  1  ounce  butter,  add  Yg  tablespoonful  flour,  stir  and  cook  3 
minutes ;  add  ^4  cupful  cream  or  milk,  Y2  teaspoonful  salt,  Y4  tea- 
spoonful  white  pepper,  boil  2  minutes,  add  the  oysters ;  cook  a  few 
minutes  longer ;  then  pour  over  buttered  toast,  and  serve. 

Oyster  Rolls. ‚Äî Put  18  large  oysters  in  a  saucepan,  strain  the 
liquor  over  them,  and  place  over  the  fire ;  as  soon  as  boiling  remove, 
drain  the  oysters  in  a  sieve,  and  cut  each  into  4  pieces.  Melt  1 
tablespoonful  butter  in  a  saucepan,  add  Yg  tablespoonful  flour,  stir 
3  minutes  without  browning ;  add  1  cupful  of  the  oyster  liquor,  Y2 
cupful  fine-chopped  mushrooms,  1  small  bouquet,  1  even  teaspoon- 
ful salt,  Y2  even  teaspoonful  white  pepper,  Y4  teaspoonful  nutmeg, 
boil  5  minutes ;  remove  the  bouquet  and  add  the  oysters ;  cook  2 
minutes.  Mix  the  yolks  of  2  eggs  with  Y2  cupful  cream,  and  add  to 
the  saucepan,  stir  until  nearly  boiling,  then  add  1  tablespoonful 
lemon  juice.  In  the  meantime  cut  the  tojjp  from  6  French  rolls  to 
remove  the  crumbs ;  brush  the  inside  and  outside  over  with  butter, 
set  the  rolls  with  the  tops  on  a  baking  sheet  in  a  hot  oven ;  bake 
light  brown  and  crisp ;  fill  the  rolls  with  oysters,  put  on  the  covers, 
and  serve  on  a  folded  napkin. 


SEA  FOOD,  Etc.  121 

Oysters  a  I'ltalienne. ‚Äî Place  2  handfuls  of  well-washed  spin- 
ach in  a  saucepan,  cover  with  boiling  water,  add  a  little  salt,  and  boil 
10  minutes ;  then  drain ;  press  out  all  the  water,  and  chop  the  spinach 
fine.  Fry  2  tablespoonfuls  fine-chopped  onions  in  1  ounce  butter 
and  1  bruised  clove  of  garlic  5  minutes  without  browning ;  add 
Ya  cupful  of  the  chopped  spinach,  12  fine-chopped  oysters,  1  tea- 
spoonful  salt,  Ya  teaspoonf ul  pepper,  2  tablespoonfuls  cream,  stir 
and  cook  5  minutes  ;  then  remove  from  the  fire,  and  add  the  yolk 
of  1  egg  and  1  whole  egg.  Blanch  12  large  oysters  in  their  own 
liquor ;  have  ready  6  shells,  put  2  oysters  in  each,  cover  with  the 
preparation  in  saucepan,  sprinkle  over  little  grated  bread  crumbs 
and  melted  butter,  and  bake  15  minutes  in  a  hot  oven.  Serve  on  a 
folded  rTapkin. 

Broiled  Oysters. ‚Äî For  a  family  of  six,  take  3  dozen  large 
oysters,  dry  on  a  soft  towel,  dip  in  melted  butter,  and  roll  in  cracker 
dust ;  lay  on  a  broiler  and  broil  over  clear  fire  2  minutes  on  each 
side ;  sprinkle  over  Ys  teaspoonful  salt.  Dress  the  oysters  on  a  warm 
dish,  garnish  with  fried  parsley  and  cut  lemons,  serve  with  French 
bread  and  butter. 

Oyster  Salad. ‚Äî See  my  book  Desserts  and  Salads,  recipe  908. 

Oysters  a  la  Normandie. ‚Äî Place  1  pint  of  oysters,  without 
their  liquor,  in  a  saucepan  over  the  fire ;  add  1  teaspoonful  butter, 
the  juice  of  1  lemon,  1  even  teaspoonful  seasoning  salt,  let  simmer 
3  minutes  ;  then  remove  from  fire.  Melt  1  ounce  butter  in  a  sauce- 
pan, add  1  tablespoonful  flour,  stir  2  minutes ;  add  1  cupful  chicken 
broth,  1  cupful  oyster  liquor,  and  3  tablespoonfuls  mushroom  liquor, 
a  small  bouquet,  cook  5  minutes  ;  then  remove  the  bouquet ;  add  Y2 
teaspoonful  beef  extract,  Ys  even  teaspoonful  seasoning  salt ;  mix 
the  yolks  of  2  eggs  with  1  tablespoonful  lemon  juice,  add  it  slowly 
to  the  sauce ;  add  last  2  tablespoonfuls  cream  and  the  oysters ;  let 
them  get  hot,  and  pour  over  6  slices  of  toast. 

Pickled  Oysters. ‚Äî Procure  1  hundred  large  oysters ;  place 
them  with  their  liquor  ov*  the  fire,  let  come  to  a  boil,  then  remove 


122  SEA  FOOD,  Etc. 

with  a  skimmer,  and  immediately  lay  the  oysters  in  a  pan  with 
cracked  ice.  Put  1  pint  of  the  oyster  liquor  in  a  saucepan ;  add  1 
pint  of  vinegar,  6  whole  cloves,  and  1  teaspoonful  whole  peppers,  2 
blades  of  mace,  and  1  even  tablespoonful  salt ;  set  over  the  fire,  and 
boil  5  minutes ;  remove,  and  when  cold,  place  the  oysters  in  a  stone 
jar ;  pour  over  the  liquor,  add  1  fine-sliced  lemon  without  the  pits ; 
cover  the  jar,  and  keep  in  a  cool  place. 

Oyster  Dumplings. ‚Äî Put  18  large  oysters  in  a  saucepan,  add 
Ya  tablespoonful  butter,  1  even  teaspoonful  salt,  Yg  even  teaspoonful 
white  pepper,  the  juice  of  Y2  lemon,  set  over  the  fire ;  when  begin- 
ning to  boil,  remove  from  fire  and  set  aside  to  cool.  Poll  out  very 
thin  4  ounces  puff  paste  or  rich  pie  crust,  cut  it  into  6  square  pieces, 
lay  3  oysters  in  the  center  of  each  square,  brush  the  corners  over 
with  beaten  egg,  inclose  the  oysters  in  the  paste,  and  press  the  4 
corners  together ;  rinse  a  tin  pan  with  cold  water,  place  the  dump- 
lings into  it,  brush  over  with  beaten  egg,  and  bake  light  brown  in  a 
hot  oven.  In  the  meantime  melt  1  tablespoonful  butter,  add  1 
tablespoonful  flour,  stir  3  minutes ;  add  1  cupful  oyster  liquor  and  1 
cupful  cream  or  milk,  Y2  even  teaspoonful  salt,  Y*  teaspoonful  white 
pepper,  and  the  broth  in  which  the  oysters  were  cooked  ;  boil  5  min- 
utes, then  strain,  and  serve  with  the  dumplings. 

Oyster  Croquettes. ‚Äî Place  20  large  oysters  with  their  liquor 
in  a  saucepan  over  the  fire ;  let  come  to  a  boil ;  remove,  and  when 
cold  chop  fine.  Melt  1  ounce  butter  in  a  saucepan,  add  1  table- 
spoonful flour,  stir  and  cook  a  few  minutes;  add  1  cupful  oyster 
liquor,  cook  5  minutes ;  add  the  chopped  oysters,  1  even  teaspoonful 
salt,  Y2  teaspoonful  white  pepper,  Y2  teaspoonful  English  mustard, 
stir  for  a  few  minutes  over  the  fire ;  add  1  tablespoonful  fine-chopped 
parsley,  stir  a  few  minutes;  then  add  the  yolks  of  3  eggs,  turn 
the  preparation  on  to  a  flat  dish,  and  set  in  a  cool  place.  When 
cold,  form  the  mixture  into  cork-shaped  croquettes,  dip  them  in 
beaten  egg,  and  roll  in  fresh  grated  bread  crumbs.  Place  a  frying 
pan  over  the  fire,  with  Y2  tablespoonful  1^-d,  Y2  tablespoonful  butter 


SEA  FOOD,  Etc.  123 

(or  fry  in  hot  fat) ;  when  hot  put  in  as  many  croquettes  as  will  con- 
veniently go  in  ;  fry  light  brown  on  both  sides.  Serve  with  either 
bechamel,  Tartar,  or  tomato  sauce,  or  with  sauce  a  I'allemande. 

Oyster  Chops. ‚Äî Form  the  above  mixture  into  chops,  and  finish 
the  same  as  croquettes. 

Oyster  Farci. ‚Äî Prepare  6  ounces  of  chicken  forcemeat ;  place 
18  large  oysters  in  a  saucepan  over  the  fire ;  add  the  juice  of  Yg 
lemon,  1  teaspoonf  ul  seasoning  salt,  1  ounce  butter,  Yg  cup  of  their 
own  juice ;  let  come  slowly  to  a  boil ;  remove ;  when  cold,  drain 
and  dry  on  a  napkin.  Spread  the  chicken  forcemeat  over  both 
sides  of  the  oysters,  dip  each  in  beaten  egg,  roll  in  fresh  grated 
bread  crumbs,  and  fry  in  hot  fat  to  a  fine  color.  Arrange  the 
oysters  nicely  on  a  warm  dish,  garnish  with  fried  parsley,  and  serve. 

Oyster  RagOtit. ‚Äî Put  12  large  oysters  in  a  saucepan  over  the 
fire;  add  the  juice  of  Y2  lemon,  Y2  tablespoonful  butter,  a  little 
salt  and  white  pepper,  and  cook  a  few  minutes  till  the  oysters  ruffle. 
Melt  in  another  saucepan  1  tablespoonful  butter,  add  1  tablespoon- 
ful fiour,  stir  3  minutes,  add  1  cupful  white  broth,  Y2  cupful 
oyster  liquor,  Y2  cupful  canned  mushrooms  and  a  little  of  their 
liquor,  Y2  even  teaspoonful  salt,  Y4  teaspoonful  pepper,  cook  10 
minutes.  Mix  the  yolks  of  2  eggs  with  Y4  cupful  cream,  add  it  to 
the  saucepan,  add  the  oysters,  let  it  remain  over  the  fire  till  nearly 
boiling,  then  remove.  Have  in  the  meantime  12  fish  balls  or 
chicken  forcemeat  balls,  prepared  and  boiled,  add  them  to  the 
ragout,  and  serve. 

Oysters  a  la  Tilleroi. ‚Äî Place  18  large  oysters  in  a  saucepan 
over  the  fire;  add  the  juice  of  1  lemon,  1  teaspoonful  seasoning 
salt,  1  ounce  butter,  and  Y2  cup  of  their  juice ;  when  beginning  to 
boil,  remove  from  fire,  and  drain.  Prepare  a  thick  Villeroi  sauce, 
cover  each  oyster  with  the  sauce,  lay  on  a  buttered  tin  pan,  and  set 
for  1  hour  on  ice.  Dip  the  oysters  in  beaten  egg  and  roll  in  bread 
crumbs,  fry  in  hot  fat  to  a  delicate  brown.  These  oysters  are 
mostly  used  for  garnishing; 


124  SEA  FOOD,  Etc. 

Oysters  with  Celery. ‚Äî Place  1  pint  fine-cut  table  celery  in  a 
saucepan  over  the  fire,  cover  with  boiling  water ;  add  1  even  tea- 
spoonful  salt,  and  boil  till  tender.  Put  12  oysters  with  1  cupful  of 
their  liquor  in  a  saucepan ;  add  Yg  even  teaspoonful  salt,  or  a  little 
white  pepper,  boil  2  minutes ;  mix  Yg  tablespoonful  cornstarch  with 
Ys  tablespoonful  butter,  add  it  to  the  oysters ;  drain  the  celery,  add 
it  also  to  the  oysters,  boil  2  minutes ;  add  2  tablespoonf uls  cream  or 
unsweetened  condensed  milk ;  then  pour  over  6  slices  buttered  toast, 
and  serve. 

Oyster  Pie.  ‚Äî Take  an  earthen  dish  which  holds  3  pints  and 
line  the  sides  with  rich  pie  crust ;  lift  1  quart  of  large  oysters  with 
a  fork  out  of  their  liquor,  lay  them  in  layers  in  the  dish  ;  sprinkle 
between  1  even  teaspoonful  salt,  Y2  teaspoonful  pepper,  and  lay  Y2 
tablespoonful  butter  in  small  bits  over  the  oysters ;  cover  with  the 
same  crust  and  cut  an  opening  in  the  center  of  top  crust ;  then 
place  in  oven  to  bake.  In  the  meantime  melt  1  tablespoonful 
butter,  add  1  tablespoonful  flour,  cook  for  a  few  minutes ;  then  add 
the  strained  oyster  liquor  and  Y2  cupful  water,  cook  2  minutes; 
season  with  1  even  teaspoonful  salt,  Ys  ^ven  teaspoonful  white 
pepper,  and  add  1  cup  cream  or  milk ;  when  the  pie  is  nearly  done, 
put  a  funnel  in  the  center  opening,  and  pour  in  as  much  of  the 
sauce  as  the  pie  will  hold,  return  to  oven  and  bake  10  minutes 
longer ;  if  there  is  any  sauce  left,  serve  it  with  the  pie.  Another 
way  is  to  boil  3  potatoes  until  done,  then  cut  in  slices,  and  put  in 
alternate  layers  in  the  dish  with  the  oysters. 

CLAMS. 

Clams  on  Half-shell. ‚Äî Clams  to  be  sweet  and  fresh  should  be 
well  washed  in  cold  water,  kept  as  cold  as  possible,  and  not  opened 
until  shortly  before  serving.  Have  deep  oyster  plates  covered  with 
fine-shaved  ice,  the  clams  on  half-shells,  place  them  in  the  ice  (al- 
lowing 6  to  8  clams  for  each  plate)  with  a  quarter  of  a  lemon,  and 
serve.  Another  way  is  to  cover  the  ice  with  a  small  napkin  and 
dress  the  clams  over  it. 


SEA  FOOD,  Etc.  125 

Roasted  Clams. ‚Äî Wash  the  clams  in  cold  water  and  lay  them 
on  a  broiler  over  a  clear,  strong  fire ;  as  soon  as  they  open  take  them 
from  the  broiler,  remove  the  upper  half-shell,  leaving  the  clam  in 
the  remaining  half ;  pour  a  few  drops  of  melted  butter  over  each 
one,  and  serve. 

Clams  a  la  Maryland. ‚Äî Procure  18  fresh  soft-shell  clams,  lift 
them  with  a  fork  out  of  their  liquor;  melt  1  ounce  butter  in  a 
saucepan ;  add  2  tablespoonfuls  fine-chopped  onion,  fry  5  minutes 
without  browning ;  then  add  the  clams,  cover  and  cook  6  minutes ; 
season  with  Y^  teaspoonful  pepper ;  mix  the  yolks  of  2  eggs  with  Yg 
cupful  cream,  add  it  to  the  clams,  toss  for  a  few  minutes  over  the 
fire  without  boiling,  then  serve. 

Fried  Soft-sliell  Clams. ‚Äî Procure  freshly  opened  soft-shell 
clams,  remove  them  with  a  fork  out  of  their  liquor  on  to  a  soft 
towel,  and  after  drying  lay  the  clams  on  a  dish,  dust  over  with 
flour ;  then  take  each  one  separately  on  a  fork,  dip  first  in  beaten 
egg,  then  roll  in  cracker  dust,  lay  them  thus  prepared  on  a  clean 
board  for  30  minutes  to  dry.  Place  a  frying  pan  with  1  ounce  pure 
lard  and  1  ounce  butter  over  the  fire ;  as  soon  as  melted  put  in  as 
many  clams  as  will  conveniently  go  in  ;  fry  light  brown,  first  on 
one  side  then  on  the  other  ;  fry  the  remainder  the  same  way,  using 
more  lard  and  butter  if  necessary.  Arrange  them  nicely  on  a  hot 
dish,  and  serve  with  biscuits  and  butter  or  buttered  toast.  In  place 
of  lard  or  butter,  beef  fat  or  larding  pork  may  be  used. 

Soft-shell  Clams  Fried  in  Batter.‚Äî Procure  1  dozen  soft- 
shell  clams,  drain  and  dry  on  a  towel.  Mix  the  yolks  of  2  eggs 
with  Y2  cupful  clam  liquor,  2  heaping  tablespoonfuls  flour,  1  tea- 
spoonful  melted  butter,  beat  this  with  a  spoon  for  3  minutes  ;  then 
add  the  2  whites  beaten  to  a  stiff  froth,  take  each  clam  on  a  fork, 
dip  into  the  batter,  and  drop  into  boiling  fat ;  fry  light  brown  like 
crullers  till  done. 

Devilled  Clams. ‚Äî Melt  1  ounce  butter  in  a  saucepan,  add  2 
tablespoonfuls  fine-chopped  onion,  cook  3  minutes ;  add  Y2  cupful 


126  SEA  FOOD,  Etc. 

fine-chopped  mushrooms,  cook  5  minutes ;  add  1  heaping  table- 
spoonful  flour,  stir  2  minutes  ;  add  Yg  pint  clam  liquor,  stir  and 
cook  till  smooth ;  then  add  12  fine-choiDped  clams,  Yg  even  teaspoon- 
ful  pepper,  stir  and  cook  6  minutes ;  remove  from  fire.  Mix  the 
yolks  of  2  eggs  with  Y2  cupful  cream,  add  it  to  the  clams,  fill  this 
preparation  into  6  well-cleaned  clam  shells,  sprinkle  over  some  fresh 
grated  bread  crumbs  and  a  little  melted  butter,  and  bake  to  a  fine 
color  in  a  hot  oven.  (If  liked,  1  clove  of  bruised  garlic  may  be 
added  with  the  onion.) 

Clams  a  la  Newport. ‚Äî Scald  18  fresh  soft-shell  clams  in  their 
liquor,  then  drain ;  remove  the  hard  part.  Place  the  clams  in  a 
saucepan  with  2  ounces  butter,  the  juice  of  Y2  lemon,  Y2  even  tea- 
spoonful  pepper,  toss  for  a  few  minutes  over  the  fire.  Mix  the  yolks 
of  2  eggs  with  Ys  cupful  cream,  add  to  the  clams  and  let  remain  for 
a  few  minutes  over  the  fire.  Serve  on  a  warm  dish ;  garnish  with 
croutons  or  toasted  bread. 

Hot  Clam  Pepper  Roast. ‚Äî Melt  1  ounce  butter  in  a  saucepan  ; 
add  2  tablespoonf  uls  fine-chopped  onion,  1  fine-chopped  green  pepper, 
small  clove  of  bruised  garlic,  cook  5  minutes  without  browning ;  then 
add  Y2  cupful  clam  juice,  Y2  teaspoonf ul  beef  extract,  Y2  even  tea- 
spoonful  salt,  Y2  even  teaspoonf  ul  pepper.  Kemove  the  soft  bodies 
from  12  fresh-opened  soft-shell  clams,  chop  the  hard  parts  fine  and 
add  it  with  the  bodies  to  the  saucepan;  cook  5  minutes.  Lay  6 
slices  of  buttered  toast  on  a  hot  plate ;  pour  the  clam  mixture  over 
them,  and  serve  very  hot. 

Clams  Brooklyiiaise. ‚Äî Procure  2  dozen  freshly  opened  Little 
Neck  clams,  drain  them  in  a  sieve.  Melt  1  ounce  butter  in  a  sauce- 
pan, add  2  tablespoonfuls  fine-chopped  white  onions,  cook  till  the 
onions  are  done  without  browning  ;  then  add  Y2  tablespoonful  flour, 
stir  and  cook  2  minutes  ;  add  1  cupful  boiling  water,  Y2  teaspoonful 
beef  extract,  1  even  teaspoonful  salt,  Y2  even  teaspoonful  white  pep- 
per, stir  until  smooth,  then  add  the  clams,  cook  slowly  6  minutes ; 


SEA  FOOD,  Etc.  127 

add  the  juice  of  Yg  lemon,  stir  well ;  add  last  74  cupful  cream,  and 
serve  with  fleurons. 

Steamed  Clams. ‚Äî Wash  the  clams  several  times  in  cold  water, 
place  them  with  a  little  water  in  a  saucepan  over  the  fire,  cover  and 
cook  till  they  open ;  then  remove ;  take  them  out  of  their  shells, 
put  in  a  saucepan,  add  to  2  dozen  clams  1  tablespoonful  butter  and 
Y4  teaspoonful  white  pepper  ;  toss  for  a  few  moments  over  the  fire, 
and  serve. 

Clam  a  I'Espagnole. ‚Äî Put  1  fine-chopped  onion  in  a  sauce- 
pan over  the  fire ;  add  1  ounce  butter  or  oil,  1  fine-chopped  green 
pepper,  1  bruised  clove  of  garlic,  cook  3  minutes ;  add  Yg  cupful 
fine-chopped  mushrooms,  cook  5  minutes ;  add  2  fine-cut  tomatoes, 
cover,  and  simmer  slowly  8  minutes.  In  the  meantime  place  a  small 
saucepan  with  Ys  tablespoonful  butter  over  the  fire,  add  Y2  table- 
spoonful  flour,  stir  2  minutes  ;  add  Y2  cupful  boiling  water,  Ys  cup- 
ful clam  liquor,  1  teaspoonful  beef  extract,  cook  5  minutes ;  add 
this  sauce  to  the  contents  in  saucepan,  season  with  1  teaspoonful 
salt,  Y4  teaspoonful  pepper.  Boil  IY2  dozen  soft-shell  clams  in  their 
liquor  3  minutes ;  then  drain  ;  remove  the  hard  parts  and  add  the 
soft  bodies  to  the  saucepan,  cook  a  few  minutes ;  serve  in  a  border 
of  rice  a  la  Creole.  Boil  Y2  pound  rice  10  minutes  in  water;  drain 
and  spread  it  for  1  hour  on  a  towel  to  dry ;  fry  1  fine-chopped 
onion  in  1  ounce  butter  5  minutes,  add  the  rice,  stir  3  minutes ; 
then  add  IY2  pint  of  water,  1  even  teaspoonful  salt,  cover  and  cook 
in  a  double  boiler  till  the  rice  is  done ;  turn  it  on  to  a  long  dish, 
add  1  ounce  butter  in  small  pieces,  and  mix  it  with  2  forks.  Pour 
the  clams  in  the  center  of  an  oblong  dish  and  lay  the  rice  around 
the  clams. 

Clam  Pie. ‚Äî Take  1  quart  of  clams  out  of  their  liquor  with  a 
fork,  cut  off  and  chop  the  hard  part  fine,  set  the  soft  part  aside ; 
put  the  chopped  clams  in  a  saucepan  with  2  cupfuls  of  the  strained 
clam  liquor  and  1  cup  of  water ;  let  it  come  to  a  boil.  Mix  1  table- 
spoonful butter  with  1  tablespoonful  cornstarch ;  add  it  to  the  con- 


128  SEA  FOOD,  Etc. 

tents  of  saucepan,  boil  5  minutes,  and  set  aside  to  keep  warm.  Line 
the  sides  of  a  3-pint  I3ie  disli  with  pie  crust,  sprinkle  over  the  bot- 
tom 1  tablespoonful  jsowdered  cracker;  then  put  in  half  of  the 
clams,  and  on  them  a  layer  of  fine-sliced  parboiled  potatoes,  little 
fine-minced  onion,  some  pepper,  a  few  small  pieces  of  butter,  2 
tablespoonfuls  of  the  above  sauce,  and  a  spoonful  powdered  cracker. 
Put  in  the  remaining  clams  and  a  layer  of  sliced  potatoes,  onion, 
butter,  pepper,  some  of  the  sauce,  and  a  spoonful  powdered  cracker, 
cover  with  pie  crust  with  an  opening  cut  into  the  center.  Place  the 
pie  in  a  medium  hot  oven,  and  after  15  minutes'  baking,  draw  the 
dish  toward  the  front  of  oven,  place  a  funnel  in  the  opening  of  top 
crust,  and  pour  half  of  the  sauce  into  the  pie.  Set  it  back  in  the 
oven  and  bake  till  done,  which  will  take  about  1  hour.  Shortly  be- 
fore serving  pour  some  more  sauce  into  the  pie,  put  the  rest  in  a 
sauce  bowl,  and  serve  with  the  pie. 

Clam  Croquettes. ‚Äî Place  20  clams  with  their  liquor  in  a 
saucepan  over  the  fire ;  as  soon  as  boiling  remove,  drain  on  a  sieve, 
and  chop  fine.  Melt  1  ounce  butter  in  a  saucepan,  add  2  table- 
spoonfuls  fine-chopped  onions,  cook  5  minutes  without  browning ; 
add  1  heaping  tablespoonful  flour,  stir  and  cook  2  minutes ;  add  1 
cupful  clam  liquor,  Yg  teaspoonful  white  pepper,  Yg  teaspoonful  dry 
mustard,  cook  3  minutes ;  add  the  fine-chopped  clams  and  1  tea- 
spoonful fine-chopped  parsley,  stir  and  cook  5  minutes;  add  the 
yolks  of  3  eggs,  mix  well ;  then  turn  the  mixture  on  a  flat  dish,  and 
set  aside  to  cool.  When  ready  to  cook  form  the  clam  preparation 
into  cork-shaped  croquettes,  dip  them  into  beaten  egg,  and  roll  in 
fresh  grated  bread  crumbs,  fry  them  light  brown  in  half  lard  and 
butter,  or  in  hot  fat. 

Clam  Chops. ‚Äî Form  the  above  mixture  into  small  chops,  dip 
them  in  beaten  egg,  cover  with  grated  bread  crumbs,  and  fry  light 
brown.     Serve  with  tomato  sauce  a  I'allemande. 

Clam  Patties. ‚Äî Chop  1  pint  of  clams  fine,  strain,  their  liquor, 
and  put  Y2  cup  of  the  liquor  in  a  saucepan  over  the  fire ;  as  soon  as 


SEA  FOOD,  Etc.  129 

it  boils  add  the  clams,  boil  10  minutes.  Mix  1  tablespoonful  butter 
with  1  teaspoonful  cornstarch ;  add  it  to  the  clams  with  Yg  cup  boil- 
ing milk,  and  season  with  Y^  teaspoonful  white  pepper;  then  fill 
the  preparation  into  hot  patty  cases,  and  serve. 

Clams,  Pickled. ‚Äî Take  100  hard-shell  clams,  1  pint  vinegar,  4 
blades  of  ma^ce,  10  whole  cloves,  1  dozen  whole  black  peppers,  1 
lemon.  Place  the  clams,  thoroughly  washed,  in  a  kettle  with  Y2 
pint  of  water  over  the  fire,  cover  tightly,  and  steam  until  they  open. 
Eemove  the  kettle  from  the  fire,  take  the  clams  out  of  their  shells, 
put  them  in  a  stone  jar,  or  in  glass  jars,  leaving  sufficient  room  for 
the  pickle.  Strain  1  pint  of  the  clam  liquor,  put  it  in  saucepan 
with  1  pint  vinegar  and  the  spices,  boil  5  minutes ;  pour  it  over 
the  clams,  cut  the  lemon  into  slices,  remove  the  pits,  and  add  it  to 
the  clams.     Cover  the  jar,  and  put  away  in  a  cool  place. 

Puree  of  Clams. ‚Äî Take  1  pint  of  hard-shell  clams  with  their 
liquor,  1  tablespoonful  butter,  Ys  cupful  cream  or  milk,  Ys  table- 
spoonful  cornstarch,  Ys  teaspoonful  white  pepper.  Boil  the  clams 
in  their  liquor  2  minutes ;  remove  with  a  fork,  and  chop  fine.  Place 
a  saucepan  with  the  butter  over  the  fire,  add  the  flour,  stir  and  cook 
2  minutes ;  strain  the  clam  broth ;  add  1  cupful  broth  to  the  sauce- 
pan, cook  2  minutes ;  add  the  chopped  clams  and  pepper,  cook  10 
minutes;  add  last  the  cream  or  Ys  cupful  boiling  milk.  Lay  6 
slices  of  buttered  toast  on  a  hot  dish,  pour  the  clam  puree  over  it, 
and  serve. 

Clam  Fritters. ‚Äî Mix  4  ounces  prepared  flour  with  1  whole  egg 
and  1  yolk,  4  tablespoonfuls  clam  liquor,  Ys  teaspoonful  butter,  a 
pinch  of 'Cayenne  pepper,  8  large  fine-chopped  clams.  Drop  this 
preparation  with  a  tablespoon  into  boiling  fat,  and  fry  light  brown, 
like  crullers  ;  when  done  remove  with  a  perforated  skimmer  on  to  an 
upturned  sieve  or  paper,  to  drain  off  the  grease,  and  serve  on  a 
warm  dish. 


130  SEA  FOOD,  Etc. 


MUSSELS. 


Mussels ‚Äî How  to  prepare. ‚Äî Scrape  and  wash  2  dozen  mussels 
several  times  in  cold  water;  place  in  a  saucepan,  add  1  pint  cold 
water,  set  over  the  fire,  and  boil  until  they  open  ;  then  remove,  cut 
off  the  black  part  with  a  pair  of  scissors ;  put  in  a  clean  saucepan, 
strain  over  the  liquor ;  they  are  then  ready  to  use. 

Mussels  a  la  Britannia. ‚Äî Prepare  IV2  dozen  mussels  as  in  fore- 
going recipe ;  place  a  small  saucepan  with  1  fine-chopped  onion  and 
Ys  cup  white  wine  over  the  fire  ;  add  1  tablespoonful  tarragon  vine- 
gar, boil  down  to  one  half,  remove,  and,  when  nearly  cold,  add  the 
yolks  of  3  eggs  and  2  ounces  butter  in  small  pieces ;  set  the  sauce- 
pan in  hot  water  and  stir  till  thick,  seasoning  with  little  salt,  the 
juice  of  1  lemon,  1  teaspoonful  fine-chopped  parsley,  and  1  tea- 
spoonful  fine-minced  shallots ;  take  the  mussels  out  of  their  liquor, 
put  in  a  hot  dish,  pour  the  sauce  over,  and  serve. 

Mussels  a  la  Marini^re. ‚Äî Prepare  18  mussels  as  previously 
directed ;  place  a  saucepan  with  1  ounce  butter  over  the  fire,  add  1 
fine-chopped  onion,  cook  5  minutes ;  add  1  tablespoonful  flour,  stir  5 
minutes ;  add  Yg  cupful  mussel  broth,  1  cupful  white  wine,  season 
with  1  even  teaspoonful  seasoning  salt,  boil  5  minutes ;  add  1  table- 
spoonful butter  in  small  pieces,  1  teaspoonful  chopped  parsley  and 
the  mussels,  then  serve. 

Mussel  Farci. ‚Äî Prepare  18  mussels,  cut  them  into  small  pieces; 
fry  1  fine-chopped  onion  in  1  ounce  butter,  add  1  bruised  clove  of 
garlic,  cook  5  minutes  ;  then  add  1  tablespoonful  flour,  stir  3  min- 
utes ;  add  Vg  cupful  mussel  broth,  Yg  cupful  cream,  stir  and  cook  till 
smooth  ;  then  add  the  mussels,  season  with  salt  and  pepper ;  add  the 
yolks  of  2  eggs ;  fill  this  preparation  in  some  clean  mussel  shells, 
sprinkle  over  some  bread  crumbs,  and  bake  in  hot  oven  till  brown. 
Serve  on  a  napkin. 

Mussels  a  la  Tilleroi. ‚Äî Prepared  the  same  as  Oysters  Villeroi. 


SEA  FOOD,  Etc.  131 

Mussels  a  la  Normandie. ‚Äî Prepare  18  mussels  the  same  as 
Mussel  Farci ;  place  a  saucepan  with  1  fine-cut  onion  over  the  fire, 
add  1  ounce  butter,  cook  5  minutes ;  add  1  tablespoonf ul  flour,  stir 
3  minutes;  then  add  Yg  cupful  mussel  broth,  Yg  cupful  mushroom 
liquor,  1  cupful  boiling  water  with  1  teaspoonful  beef  extract,  1 
even  teaspoonful  seasoning  salt,  and  a  small  bouquet ;  boil  5  minutes ; 
then  strain  the  sauce  into  a  clean  saucepan ;  mix  the  yolks  of  2  eggs 
with  the  juice  of  Ys  lemon,  add  it  to  the  sauce,  also  the  mussels  ;  re- 
turn for  a  few  minutes  to  the  fire,  heat  without  boiling,  and  pour 
over  6  slices  of  buttered  toast.  (If  mushrooms  are  not  at  hand, 
take  1  cup  of  the  mussel  broth  in  place  of  a  half  cup.) 

Mussels^  Pickled. ‚Äî Wash  100  mussels  thoroughly  clean,  put 
them  into  a  large  kettle  with  1  pint  of  water,  cover  tightly,  and  boil 
till  the  shells  open ;  take  them  with  a  knife  from  their  shells  and 
put  into  glass  jars.  Prepare  a  pickle  of  1  pint  vinegar,  Y2  pi^it 
water,  1  tablespoonf  ul  whole  peppers,  6  whole  cloves,  2  blades  of 
mace,  Ys  tablespoonful  salt,  and  2  or  3  small  red  peppers  ;  boil  this 
a  few  minutes,  and  set  aside  to  cool.  Add  to  the  mussels  in  jars 
some  slices  of  lemon  without  pits,  pour  the  cold  pickle  over ;  cover 
tightly  and  set  in  a  cool  place. 

SHRIMPS. 

Boiled  Shrimps. ‚Äî Put  the  shrimps  alive  in  the  boiling  salt 
water,  allowing  Ya  pound  salt  to  a  gallon  of  water ;  boil  from  5  to  8 
minutes.  When  they  change  color  they  are  done.  Serve  them  with 
vinegar  and  oil. 

Shrimps  with  May Oimaise.‚Äî Extract  the  meat  from  the 
boiled  shrimps,  mix  with  lemon  juice,  and  set  aside.  Shortly  be- 
fore serving,  put  on  a  salad  dish  and  dress  the  shrimps  with  mayon- 
naise, hard-boiled  eggs,  and  lettuce.  For  Shrimp  Salad,  see  my 
book  Desserts  and  Salads,  recipe  905. 


132  SEA  FOOD,  Etc. 

LOBSTER. 

In  Seaso7i  the  Year  Round. 

Lobster ‚Äî Where  found,  etc. ‚Äî Lobster  is  a  well-known  marine 
crustacean  of  the  order  Deccqjoda,  and  genus  Homarus.  They  come 
inshore  from  deep  water  during  the  months  of  March,  April,  and 
May,  according  to  locality,  and  depart  as  irregularly  in  the  autumn. 
There  is  only  one  species  in  our  waters,  found  northward  from  the 
coast  of  New  York,  the  best  being  on  the  rocky  shores  of  New  Eng- 
land north  of  Cape  Cod.  They  are  common  in  our  markets,  espe- 
cially in  spring  and  summer,  and  are  considered  a  great  delicacy, 
though  the  meat  is  rather  indigestible.  No  part  is  poisonous, 
though  the  cartilaginous  stomach,  or  the  lady,  is  so  tough  that  no 
one  would  think  of  eating  it. 

Lobster ‚Äî How  to  choose. ‚Äî These  are  chosen  more  by  weight 
than  by  size ;  the  heaviest  are  best.  A  good  small-sized  one  will 
not  infrequently  be  found  to  weigh  as  heavily  as  one  much  larger. 
(If  fresh,  a  lobster  will  be  lively,  and  the  claws  have  a  strong  motion 
when  the  eyes  are  pressed  with  the  finger.)  The  male  is  best  for 
boiling ;  the  flesh  is  firmer,  and  the  shell  a  brighter  red  ;  it  may  be 
readily  distinguished  from  the  female.  The  tail  is  narrower,  and 
the  two  uppermost  fins  within  the  tail  are  stiff  and  hard.  Those  of 
the  hen  lobster  are  not  so,  and  the  tail  is  broader.  Hen  lobsters  are 
preferred  for  sauce  or  salad  on  account  of  their  coral.  The  head 
and  small  claws  are  never  used. 

Lobster  au  Naturel. ‚Äî Buy  the  lobsters  alive  and  choose  those 
that  are  heavy  and  full  of  motion,  which  is  the  indication  of  their 
freshness,  medium-sized  lobsters  being  the  best.  Have  ready  a  ves- 
sel of  boiling  salt  water,  allowing  for  each  gallon  of  water  2  table- 
spoonfuls  salt,  and  plunge  the  lobster  headforemost  into  it,  boiling 
from  25  to  45  minutes  as  the  size  demands  (a  2-pound  lobster  will 
be  done  in  25  minutes).  When  done  take  the  lobster  out  with  a 
skimmer,  rub  all  over  with  a  little  butter  to  make  the  shell  nice  and 


SEA  FOOD,  Etc.  133 

glazy ;  cut  the  lobster  first  lengthwise  in  two  pieces,  using  a  knife 
and  a  hammer,  and  then  cut  each  half  again  in  two  pieces  ;  remove 
the  small  vein  running  through  the  back  of  tail.  Break  off  the 
claws,  open  them  on  the  under  side,  take  out  the  meat,  the  green 
part  or  fat,  and  coral ;  then  remove  the  stomach,  which,  generally 
called  the  lady,  is  found  under  the  head,  and  must  be  thrown  away ; 
the  lady,  the  vein,  and  the  spongy  fingers  between  the  body  and 
shell  are  the  only  parts  not  eatable.  Put  the  whole  lobster  together 
again  into  its  natural  form,  serve  on  a  dish  garnished  with  cut 
lemon  and  parsley,  and  serve  with  melted  butter.  Cold  lobster  is 
served  with  remolade  or  with  mayonnaise. 

Lolbster,  Broiled. ‚Äî Split  a  medium-sized  lobster  in  half,  take 
out  the  lady,  the  vein,  and  the  spongy  fingers  and  throw  them 
away;  then  brush  the  two  halves  over  with  melted  butter,  season 
with  Yg  even  teaspoonful  salt  and  a  little  pepper,  lay  them  between  a 
wire  gridiron,  and  broil  8  minutes  on  both  sides.  Place  them  on  a 
hot  dish  and  serve  with  maitre  d'hotel  butter. 

Lobster  a  la  Creme. ‚Äî Drop  a  2-pound  live  lobster  into  boil- 
ing water,  add  1  tablespoonf  ul  salt,  and  boil  25  minutes ;  then  take 
out  of  the  water,  and  when  cold  split  the  lobster,  extract  all  the 
meat,  and  cut  it  into  pieces ;  place  it  in  a  saucepan  over  the  fire, 
add  Ya  tablespoonful  butter,  1  even  teaspoonful  salt,  stirring  a  few 
minutes ;  then  add  1  cupful  cream  and  cook  5  minutes ;  next  mix 
the  yolks  of  3  eggs  with  Yg  cupful  cream,  and  removing  the  sauce- 
pan to  side  of  stove,  add  gi-adually  the  yolks ;  mix  well  and  serve 
in  the  shell  of  the  lobster,  or  serve  it  on  a  dish  garnished  with 
fleurons  or  croutons.  Creamed  lobster  is  also  used  for  lobster 
patties. 

Lobster  a  la  Newburg. ‚Äî Place  a  saucepan  with  1  pint  of  fine- 
cut  cooked  lobster  meat  over  the  fire,  add  1  ounce  butter,  season 
with  1  even  teaspoonful  salt,  a  pinch  of  red  pepper,  2  tablespoonf uls 
fine-cut  truffles ;  stir  3  minutes,  then  add  4  tablespoonfuls  Madeira 
or  sherry  wine,  cook  6  minutes ;  mix  the  yolks  of  2  eggs  with  Ya 


134  SEA  FOOD,  Etc. 

cupful  cream  and  add  to  the  lobster,  stirring  a  few  minutes  and 
not  letting  it  boil  again.     Then  serve. 

Lol)Ster  a  la  Citizen. ‚Äî Extract  the  meat  from  2  freshly 
boiled  lobsters  of  2  pounds  each,  and  cut  it  into  small  pieces ;  place 
a  saucepan  over  the  fire  with  2  ounces  butter,  and  as  soon  as  melted 
add  6  fine-cut  button  mushrooms,  cooking  3  minutes  without 
browning ;  then  add  the  lobster  meat,  1  even  tablespoonful  salt, 
Ys  of  a  teaspoonful  red  pepper,  3  tablespoonfuls  fine-cut  truflBes,  Yg 
pint  of  sherry  wine,  and  cook  8  minutes  ;  mix  ly^  cupful  rich 
cream  with  the  yolks  of  4  eggs,  add  it  to  the  lobster ;  mix  well 
and  let  it  remain  for  few  minutes  over  the  fire,  not  allowing  it  to 
boil.     Serve  in  a  hot  dish  and  garnish  with  a  border  of  fleurons. 

Lobster  Bagotlt. ‚Äî Drop  a  2-pound  live  lobster  into  boiling 
water,  add  1  tablespoonful  salt,  cook  25  minutes ;  then  lift  from 
the  water  and  when  cool  enough  to  handle  break  open  the  shell, 
extract  the  meat,  and  cut  it  into  small  pieces.  Place  a  saucepan 
with  1  ounce  butter  over  the  fire,  add  1  tablespoonful  flour,  stir 
and  cook  2  minutes ;  add  1  pint  boiling  milk,  ^4  teaspoonful  nut- 
meg, 1  even  teaspoonful  salt,  a  bouquet,  Yg  cup  of  mushroom  liquor, 
and  6  whole  peppers,  cooking  6  minutes ;  then  strain  through  a 
sieve,  return  sauce  to  saucepan,  add  the  lobster  meat  and  12  small 
button  mushrooms,  and  cook  10  minutes.  In  the  meantime  rub 
the  yolks  of  4  hard-boiled  eggs  fine,  add  a  little  of  the  lobster 
coral,  Y2  teaspoonful  melted  butter,  and  1  raw  yolk  ;  form  into 
small  balls  the  size  of  a  marble,  roll  in  flour,  drop  into  boiling 
salted  water,  and  cook  6  minutes.  Arrange  the  lobster  on  a  hot 
dish,  lay  the  egg  balls  around  it,  and  garnish  with  fleurons  or  serve 
in  a  vol -au -vent. 

Coquilles  of  Lobster. ‚Äî Place  a  saucepan  with  1  tablespoonful 
butter  over  the  fire,  add  2  tablespoonfuls  finely  chopped  white 
onion,  cook  5  minutes ;  then  add  1  pint  of  fine-cut  boiled  lobster 
meat,  3  tablespoonfuls  sherry  wine,  1  teaspoonful  salt,  Y2  teaspoon- 
ful pepper,  a  little  nutmeg,  and  1  cupful  of  the  sauce  described  be- 


SEA  FOOD,  Etc.  135 

low,  cooking  10  minutes ;  fill  this  mixture  into  6  table  shells,  pour 
a  little  of  the  sauce  over  each  one,  bake  10  minutes  in  hot  oven, 
and  serve  in  a  folded  napkin.  Sauce  :  Melt  1  ounce  butter,  add  1 
tablespoonf ul  flour,  stir,  and  cook  3  minutes,  not  letting  it  brown ; 
add  1  cupful  veal  or  chicken  broth,  a  small  bouquet,  6  whole  pep- 
pers, Ya  teaspoonful  salt,  little  nutmeg,  also,  if  handy,  6  chopped 
mushrooms  and  a  little  mushroom  liquor,  and  cook  10  minutes  ;  re- 
move the  bouquet  and  use  as  directed  above. 

Deyilled  Lobster. ‚Äî Place  a  saucepan  with  1  ounce  butter 
and  1  fine-chopped  onion  over  the  fire,  cook  3  minutes ;  add  Vg  cup- 
ful fine-chopped  mushrooms,  cook  5  minutes ;  add  1  tablespoonf  ul 
flour,  stir  3  minutes ;  add  Yg  cupful  white  broth,  1  teaspoonful  salt, 
Y4  teaspoonful  white  pepper,  a  sprinkle  of  Cayenne  pepper,  1  pint 
of  fine-cut  cooked  lobster  meat,  stir  and  cook  5  minutes ;  then  add 
1  tablespoonful  fine-chopped  parsley,  the  yolks  of  2  eggs ;  fill  this 
preparation  into  6  table  shells,  sprinkle  over  a  little  fresh-grated 
bread  crumbs  and  melted  butter,  bake  in  a  hot  oven  10  minutes, 
and  serve  in  a  napkin. 

Lobster  Patties. ‚Äî Prepare  a  creamed  lobster  and  fill  it,  when 
ready  to  serve,  into  hot  patty  cases. 

Lobster  Chops. ‚Äî Melt  1  tablespoonful  butter  in  a  small  sauce- 
pan, add  1  fine-chopped  onion  and  1  crushed  clove  of  garlic,  and 
cook  till  onion  is  done ;  then  add  1  tablespoonful  flour,  stir  a  few 
minutes ;  add  1  cup  of  boiling  water  with  1  teaspoonful  beef  ex- 
tract ;  season  with  Ys  teaspoonful  pepper,  Yg  teaspoonful  English 
mustard,  1  teaspoonful  fine-chopped  parsley,  and  a  little  Cayenne 
pepper ;  cook  and  stir  5  minutes ;  add  1  pint  finely  cut  cooked  lob- 
ster meat  and  Ys  cupful  fine-cut  mushrooms,  and  cook  10  minutes, 
stirring  often ;  next  add  the  yolks  of  2  eggs  and  1  whole  egg,  stir 
for  2  minutes  over  the  fire;  then  spread  the  mixture  on  a  flat  dish, 
set  it  aside,  and  when  cold  form  the  preparation  into  round  balls, 
roll  in  bread  crumbs,  dip  in  beaten  egg,  and  roll  again  in  bread 
crumbs ;  form  into  small  chops,  and  fry  in  hot  fat  or  lard  to  a 


136  SEA  FOOD,  Etc. 

golden  color.     Drain  them  on  blotting  paper,  put  a  lobster  claw 
into  each  chop,  and  serve  with  fried  parsley  and  Tartar  sauce. 

Lobster  en  Vol-au-Yeilt. ‚Äî Melt  1  tablespoonful  butter  in  a 
saucepan,  add  1  heaping  tablespoonful  flour,  stir  and  fry  a  few 
minutes  without  browning ;  add  lYg  cupful  boiling  milk,  stirring 
until  smooth ;  then  add  a  small  bouquet,  6  whole  peppers ;  season 
with  a  little  grated  nutmeg,  1  even  teaspoonful  salt,  Yg  cupful  mush- 
room liquor,  cook  10  minutes ;  strain  into  another  saucepan,  return 
the  sauce  to  fire ;  add  12  small  button  mushrooms,  cook  slowly  15 
minutes ;  add  1  pint  cooked  lobster  meat,  cut  into  inch-sized 
pieces,  cook  5  minutes ;  then  add  Yg  cupful  cream  and  the  yolks  of 
2  eggs,  letting  it  get  hot,  but  not  allowing  to  boil ;  add  12  small 
boiled  sponge  dumplings  (described  below),  pour  the  ragout  into 
the  vol-au-vent,  cover,  and  serve. 

Spokge  Dumplings. ‚Äî Place  Y2  cup  milk,  1  ounce  butter 
over  the  fire,  and  as  soon  as  boiling  add  Ys  cupful  flour,  stirring 
until  it  forms  into  a  smooth  paste ;  then  turn  the  paste  into  a  bowl, 
add  the  yolks  of  2  eggs  and  the  beaten  whites,  a  little  salt,  and  a  very 
little  nutmeg,  stirring  until  smooth.  Make  a  trial  by  dropping  a 
small  portion  with  a  teaspoon  into  slightly  salted  boiling  water ;  if 
not  firm  enough,  add  a  little  dry  farina ;  drop  the  whole  mixture  by 
teaspoonfuls  into  the  boiling  water,  cook  5  minutes,  removing  with 
a  skimmer,  and  use  as  directed  above. 

Lobster  Croquettes. ‚Äî Place  2  tablespoonfuls  fine-chopped 
onion,  a  little  bruised  garlic,  and  1  tablespoonful  butter  in  a 
saucepan  over  the  fire,  and  cook  6  minutes  without  browning ;  then 
add  1  heaping  tablespoonful  flour,  stir  2  minutes;  add  1  cup  of 
chicken  or  veal  broth,  cook  and  stir  till  thick  and  smooth ;  add  1 
even  teaspoonful  salt,  Y2  even  teaspoonful  pepper,  a  little  Cayenne 
pepper,  1  even  teaspoonful  English  mustard,  1  teaspoonful  fine- 
chopped  parsley,  Y2  cupful  fine-chopped  mushrooms,  and  1  pint  fine- 
chopped  lobster  meat ;  stir  and  cook  10  minutes;  then  add  1  whole 
egg  and  the  yolks  of  2.     Mix  well,  spread  the  mixture  in  a  shallow 


SEA  FOOD,  Etc.  137 

tin  pan,  and  set  aside.  When  cold  form  the  mixture  into  cro- 
quettes ;  dip  in  beaten  egg,  cover  with  bread  crumbs,  and  fry  in 
boiling  lard  or  in  half  butter  and  half  lard,  and  serve  with  cream 
or  bechamel  sauce. 

CRABS. 

Cralb,  Boiled. ‚Äî Buy  the  crabs  alive,  and  let  them  lie  in  cold 
water  until  their  bath  is  prepared.  Place  a  kettle  with  salt  water 
over  the  fire,  allowing  2  tablespoonfuls  salt  to  1  gallon  of  water, 
and  as  soon  as  boiling  put  in  the  crabs,  taking  one  at  a  time  on  a 
shovel,  or  take  hold  of  them  with  a  pair  of  tongs,  for  if  the  crabs 
are  large  they  will  bite  and  any  one  not  used  to  handling  them 
might  be  badly  hurt.  The  water  should  be  boiling  while  the 
crabs  are  put  in,  and  too  many  should  not  be  boiled  together. 
A  good  plan  is  to  put  a  red-hot  poker  into  the  water  after  some 
have  been  put  in.  As  soon  as  the  crabs  have  assumed  a  fine-red 
color  take  them  out  with  a  skimmer,  put  in  a  large  pan  or  dish,  and 
let  cool  off.  In  extracting  the  meat,  remove  the  upper  shell  from 
the  under,  pull  off  the  feathery  parts  from  the  sides,  and  remove 
the  greenish  substance.  These  are  the  only  portions  that  are  un- 
eatable ;  pick  out  all  meat,  crack  the  claws,  pick  the  meat  also  from 
them,  and  use  as  directed  in  following  recipe. 

Crab  RagoAt,  No.  1. ‚Äî Boil  6  hard-shell  crabs ;  when  cool  enough 
to  handle  extract  all  the  meat,  and  set  aside.  Prepare  12  fish  force- 
meat balls,  boil  them  in  salted  water ;  place  12  freshly  opened  oys- 
ters with  their  liquor  over  the  fire,  boil  3  minutes,  then  take  the 
oysters  out  of  their  liquor.  Melt  1  tablespoonful  butter,  add  1  ta- 
blespoonf  ul  flour,  stir  and  cook  3  minutes  without  browning ;  add  1 
cupful  white  bouillon,  Yg  cupful  of  the  oyster  liquor ;  season  with  1 
even  teaspoonful  salt,  Y2  even  teaspoonful  white  pepper,  Y2  V^^^ 
small  canned  mushrooms,  and  a  small  bouquet,  boil  5  minutes ;  re- 
move the  bouquet,  boil  10  minutes  longer.  Mix  the  yolks  of  2  eggs 
with  the  juice  of  Y2  lemon,  add  it  to  the  saucepan,  adding  also  the 
oysters  and  the  crab  meat,  and  heat  it  till  nearly  boiling ;  then  re- 


138  SEA  FOOD,  Etc. 

move  from  fire,  add  3  tablespoonfuls  cream ;  put  the  forcemeat  balls 
on  an  oblong  warm  dish,  pour  the  ragout  over,  and  garnish  with 
fillets  of  fish,  rice,  or  nudle  border. 

Devilled  Crabs. ‚Äî Drop  6  hard-shell  crabs  into  boiling  water, 
and  boil  12  minutes ;  remove  with  a  skimmer,  and  Avhen  cold  open 
and  pick  out  all  the  meat ;  place  a  saucepan  with  1  tablespoonf ul 
butter  and  3  tablespoonfuls  fine-minced  white  onion  over  the  fire, 
add  1  crushed  clove  of  garlic,  and  cook  for  5  minutes ;  add  1  cupful 
chicken  or  veal  broth  ;  season  with  Yg  teaspoonf  ul  salt,  Yg  even  tea- 
spoonful  English  mustard,  1  cupful  fine-chopped  mushrooms,  1  tea- 
spoonful  fine-chopped  parsley,  and  the  crab  meat;  stir  and  cook 
15  minutes ;  remove  to  side  of  stove,  add  the  yolks  of  3  eggs,  and 
stir  a  few  minutes.  Divide  this  mixture  into  6  well-cleaned  crab 
shells,  smooth  with  a  knife,  and  sprinkle  over  each  Ys  teaspoonful 
fine  bread  crumbs  and  Yg  teaspoonful  melted  butter.  Lay  the  shells 
on  a  shallow  tin  pan,  and  bake  till  light  brown  in  a  hot  oven.  Serve 
at  once  on  a  dish,  garnish  with  water  cress  or  parsley,  or  serve  in 
the  folds  of  a  napkin. 

SOFT-SHELL  CRABS. 

Li  season  from  May  till  October.     Tlie  soft-shell  crabs  are  nothing 
more  than  hard-shell  crabs  after  shedding  their  shell. 

Soft-shell  Crabs,  Fried. ‚Äî Eemove  the  spongy  substance  and 
the  sand  bags  from  the  sides,  wash,  wipe  dry,  drop  them  into 
boiling  lard,  and  fry  light  brown ;  take  them  out  with  a  per- 
forated skimmer,  sprinkle  a  little  fine  salt  all  over,  and  serve  hot, 
garnished  with  fried  parsley,  or  the  crabs  may  be  dipped  in  beaten 
egg  and  rolled  in  cracker  dust,  then  fried ;  some  prefer  to  dip  them 
in  a  batter  made  the  same  as  for  Clams  Fried  in  Batter. 

Soft-sliell  Crabs  a  la  Maitre  d'Hotel. ‚Äî Clean,  wash  well, 
and  wipe  dry  6  soft-shell  crabs;  brush  over  with  melted  butter  or 
oil,  season  with  1  even  tablespoonf  ul  salt,  Ys  even  teaspoonful  pepper; 
put  them  on  a  broiler,  and  broil  over  a  clear  fire  about  5  minutes 


SEA  FOOD,  Etc.  139 

on  each  side.  Serve  at  once  on  a  hot  dish  on  buttered  toast  with  1 
ounce  maitre  d'hotel  butter  spread  over.  In  place  of  toast,  6  small 
slices  of  bread  fried  in  butter  may  be  laid  under  the  crabs. 

FEOGS. 

In  season  tJie  year  round ;  they  are  co7isidered  lest  from  June  to 
October. 

Frogs,  Fried. ‚Äî Season  12  well-cleaned  frog  legs  with  1  table- 
spoonful  salt,  let  lie  Yg  hour ;  then  dust  with  flour,  dip  in  beaten 
egg,  and  roll  in  bread  crumbs;  fry  in  hot  fat  to  a  fine  color,  and 
serve  with  Tartar  sauce  a  I'allemande. 

Frogs  a  I'Espagnole.‚Äî Season  12  frog  legs  with  1  tablespoon- 
ful  seasoning  salt,  put  into  a  dish  with  the  juice  of  1  lemon,  and  let 
lie  1  hour ;  then  place  a  saucepan  with  2  ounces  butter  over  the  fire, 
add  1  fine-chopped  onion,  a  small  clove  of  crushed  garlic,  Yg  fine- 
chopped  green  pepper,  cook  5  minutes ;  add  the  frogs,  cover  and 
cook  10  minutes ;  add  3  fine-cut  ripe  tomatoes  and  Ys  cupful  small 
mushrooms,  cover  and  cook  till  tender.  Serve  with  boiled  rice.  If 
mushrooms  are  not  at  hand  they  may  be  omitted. 

Frogs  a  la  Poulette. ‚Äî Season  12  well-cleaned  and  washed 
frogs  with  1  tablespoonful  seasoning  salt.  Melt  2  ounces  butter  in 
a  low,  wide  saucepan,  put  in  the  frogs,  add  4  tablespoonfuls  white 
wine,  cover  and  cook  till  done  without  browning.  Place  a  small 
saucepan  with  1  ounce  butter  over  the  fire,  add  1  tablespoonful  flour, 
cook  3  minutes ;  add  lYs  cupful  white  broth,  Y4  cupful  mushroom 
liquor,  a  small  bouquet,  and  1  even  teaspooufulsalt;  boil  5  minutes ; 
remove  the  bouquet ;  mix  the  yolks  of  2  eggs  with  the  juice  of  Ys 
lemon,  draw  the  saucepan  from  the  flre,  add  slowly  the  yolks  and 
lastly  2  tablespoonfuls  cream ;  dress  the  frogs  on  a  hot  dish,  pour 
the  sauce  over,  and  garnish  with  toasted  bread  or  croutons. 

Frogs  fried  in  Batter. ‚Äî Prepare  the  frogs  as  in  foregoing 
recipe ;  mix  the  yolks  of  2  eggs  with  Ys  cupful  milk,  2  tablespoon- 
10 


140  SEA  FOOD,  Etc. 

f uls  flour,  a  little  butter  and  salt,  adding  lastly  the  beaten  whites ; 
dip  the  frogs  into  this  batter,  and  fry  in  boiling  fat  to  a  fine  color, 
a  few  at  a  time.  Serve  with  tomato  sauce,  sauce  a  I'allemande,  or 
Tartar  sauce. 

Frogs  broiled  a  la  Maitre  d'Hotel.‚Äî Procure  12  large  well- 
cleaned  fresh  frogs,  wash  and  wipe  well ;  mix  1  tablesj)oonful  salt 
with  Ys  teaspoonful  pepper,  sprinkle  this  over  the  frogs,  adding  the 
juice  of  1  lemon ;  lay  them  with  1  sliced  onion  in  a  covered  dish, 
also  some  fresh  parsley  and  2  sprigs  of  thyme,  cover  and  let  stand  1 
hour,  then  dry  on  a  soft  clean  towel,  brush  them  over  with  the 
butter  or  oil,  lay  the  frogs  on  a  broiler  and  broil  over  medium  hot 
fire  5  minutes  on  each  side ;  dress  them  on  a  hot  dish,  spread  2 
ounces  maitre  d'hotel  butter  over,  and  serve. 

TERRAPIN. 

In  season  from  November  to  May. 

Terrapin‚Äî How  to  prepare  and  cook. ‚Äî Plunge  a  live  ter- 
rapin into  boiling  water,  boil  2  minutes ;  then  remove  the  small 
white  skin  on  the  head  and  feet,  return  it  to  the  boiling  water 
and  cook  about  40  minutes  (to  know  when  they  are  done,  press 
the  feet  between  the  fingers  and  if  they  feel  soft  to  the  touch 
they  are  done) ;  remove,  and  when  cold  cut  off  the  nails,  break 
the  shell  on  the  flat  side,  removing  it  from  the  meat ;  empty  out 
all  the  insides,  carefully  removing  the  gall  bag  from  the  liver, 
also  the  white  inside  muscle  and  tail;  separate  the  legs  at  their 
joints,  and  divide  into  small  pieces,  throwing  away  head,  tail, 
entrails,  claws,  muscle,  gall,  and  bladder ;  cut  the  liver  into  slices, 
put  it  with  the  eggs  and  the  terrapin  meat  in  a  saucepan  ;  add 
sufficient  boiling  water  to  nearly  cover  the  terrapin ;  season  with 
salt  and  a  little  Cayenne  pepper,  and  cook  10  minutes ;  then  put 
aside  in  a  cool  place,  and  use  as  directed  in  the  following  recipes. 

Terrapin  a  la  Maryland. ‚Äî Place  1  pint  of  cooked  and  pre- 
pared terrapin  in  a  saucepan,  add  Vj  tablespoonful  butter,  3  table- 


SEA  FOOD,  Etc.  141 

spoonfuls  sherry  wine,  1  even  teaspoonful  salt,  a  little  Cayenne  pep- 
per, cook  5  minutes,  rub  fine  the  yolks  of  3  or  4  hard-boiled  eggs, 
mix  with  1  cupful  rich  sweet  cream,  add  to  the  terrapin,  cook  5 
minutes,  and  serve. 

Terrapin  a  la  Newlburg. ‚Äî Place  1  pint  of  cooked  terrapin 
with  2  fine-cut  truffles  in  a  saucepan,  add  1  tablespoonful  butter, 
1  even  teaspoonful  salt,  a  little  Cayenne  pepper,  and  3  tablespoonf uls 
sherry  wine  ;  cook  6  minutes ;  mix  the  yolks  of  3  eggs  with  1  cupful 
cream,  add  it  to  the  terrapin,  stir  a  few  minutes  over  the  fire,  then 
serve. 

Terrapin  a  la  Brooklyn  Hamilton  Club.‚Äî Procure  2  ter- 
rapins, each  one  3  pounds  in  weight,  boil  and  prepare  as  directed. 
Place  1  fine-chopped  onion  in  a  saucepan,  add  2  tablespoonfuls  fine- 
cut  carrots,  a  little  celery,  6  coarsely  pounded  peppers,  a  bouquet,  1 
tablespoonful  butter,  cook  and  stir  6  minutes ;  then  add  1  table- 
spoonful  flour,  and  stir  2  minutes ;  add  lYg  cupful  white  broth,  1 
even  teaspoonful  salt,  Yg  of  a  teaspoonful  Cayenne  pepper,  Yg  cupful 
sherry  wine,  Ys  cupful  fine-chopped  mushrooms,  a  little  mushroom 
liquor,  Y2  teaspoonful  beef  extract,  and  boil  10  m.inutes ;  strain  into 
a  clean  saucepan,  add  the  fine-cut  prepared  terrapin  meat,  and 
cook  5  minutes ;  add  the  juice  of  Ys  lemon  and  serve. 

Terrapin  Morensi. ‚Äî Place  1  pint  of  boiled  and  prepared  ter- 
rapin in  a  saucepan,  cover  with  sweet  cream,  season  with  1  even 
teaspoonful  salt,  a  little  Cayenne  pepper,  cook  5  minutes ;  mix  Y2 
tablespoonful  butter  with  1  teaspoonful  cornstarch,  add  to  the 
terrapin,  stir  and  cook  2  minutes ;  then  serve. 

SCALLOPS. 

hi  season  from  Septemher  to  April ;  generally  sold  ready  for  frying 
in  our  markets. 

Scallops,  Fried. ‚Äî Wipe  the  scallops  with  a  clean  towel,  dust 
with  flour,  dip  each  into  beaten  ^gg^  and  roll  in  bread  crumbs ; 
drop  into  hot  lard  or  fat,  and  fry  to  a  delicate  brown  color,  a  few  at 


142  SEA  FOOD,  Etc. 

a  time ;  remove  from  the  hot  lard  on  to  an  upturned  sieve  or  paper, 
sprinkle  over  a  little  salt,  and  serve. 

Scallops  a  la  Mariniere. ‚Äî Place  1  pint  of  scallops  in  a  cov- 
ered dish,  season  with  1  teaspoonful  seasoning  salt,  the  juice  of  1 
lemon,  1  fine-chopped  onion,  and  2  tablespoonfuls  olive  oil ;  mix 
well  with  the  scallops,  cover  and  let  them  marinate  1  hour,  then 
remove,  roll  in  cracker  dust,  and  fry  in  hot  fat ;  serve  on  a  warm 
dish,  garnished  with  parsley. 

Scallops  on  Toast. ‚Äî Season  1  pint  scallops  with  1  teaspoonful 
seasoning  salt,  add  the  juice  of  1  lemon,  let  them  marinate  1  hour  ; 
then  dip  in  milk  and  roll  in  cracker  dust,  fry  in  hot  fat  to  a  fine 
color ;  divide  the  scallops  on  6  pieces  of  buttered  toast.  At  the 
same  time  fry  1  fine-cut  onion  in  1  ounce  butter  5  minutes ;  add  Yg 
can  tomatoes,  1  tablespoonful  sugar,  1  teaspoonful  salt,  ^/g  teaspoon- 
ful pepper,  cook  20  minutes ;  then  strain ;  add  the  yolks  of  2  eggs, 
pour  the  tomatoes  over  the  scallops,  and  serve. 

Deyilled  Scallops. ‚Äî Put  1  pint  of  scallops  in  a  saucepan,  add 
Yg  pint  white  yine  and  Y3  cupful  mushroom  liquor,  cook  5  minutes ; 
then  drain  the  scallops  and  chop  fine.  Place  a  saucepan  with  1 
ounce  butter  over  the  fire,  add  1  fine-chopped  onion,  cook  5  min- 
utes ;  add  Y2  cupful  chopped  mushrooms,  1  teaspoonful  seasoning 
salt,  Ys  teaspoonful  nutmeg,  a  little  Cayenne  pepper,  cook  5  minutes  ; 
add  1  tablespoonful  flour,  stir  a  few  minutes  ;  add  ^4  cupful  of  the 
scallop  broth,  cook  3  minutes ;  add  the  chopped  scallops,  stir  and 
cook  5  minutes.  Fill  this  preparation  in  clean  scallop  shells, 
smooth  over  with  a  knife,  sprinkle  over  some  fresh  grated  bread 
crumbs  and  melted  butter,  bake  light  brown  in  a  hot  oven.  Serve 
on  a  napkin  with  some  fresh  parsley  in  the  center. 

EELS. 

Seasonable  all  the  year. 

Fried  Eels. ‚Äî Cut  2  pounds  well-cleaned  eels  into  2-inch 
lengths,  season  with  1  tablespoonful  salt,  and  set  aside  1  hour. 


SEA  FOOD,  Etc.  143 

Shortly  before  serving  wipe  the  pieces  dry  with  a  clean  towel,  and 
roll  them  in  flour.  Cut  Yg  pound  larding  pork  into  fine  pieces, 
place  in  a  frying  pan  over  the  fire,  fry  until  it  begins  to  turn  light 
brown,  pour  half  of  the  pork  into  a  small  saucepan,  lay  as  many  eel 
pieces  in  the  remaining  pork  in  pan  as  will  conveniently  go  in  ;  fry 
to  a  delicate  brown  on  all  sides  till  well  done,  adding  more  of  the 
pork  as  the  frying  continues.  When  they  are  all  fried  arrange  them 
on  a  warm  dish,  and  serve  either  with  baked  or  Lyonnaise  potatoes. 

Eels  a  la  Tartare. ‚Äî Cut  2  pounds  well-cleaned  eels  into 
lengths  of  3  inches,  sprinkle  IY2  tablespoonful  salt  over,  and  let 
stand  Ya  hour.  Place  a  saucepan  with  3  pints  of  water  over  the 
fire,  add  3  tablespoonfuls  vinegar,  1  onion  cut  into  slices,  a  few  slices 
of  carrot,  a  bouquet,  and  6  whole  peppers ;  when  beginning  to  boil 
put  in  the  eel  pieces,  let  come  to  a  boil  again ;  draw  the  saucepan 
to  side  of  stove  and  simmer  5  minutes ;  then  remove  and  set  aside 
to  cool.  Fifteen  minutes  before  serving  take  the  eels  from  the 
broth,  wipe  dry,  dip  into  melted  butter,  then  roll  in  fresh  grated 
bread  crumbs,  lay  on  a  broiler  and  broil  over  a  clear  moderate  fire  ‚Ä¢ 
till  light  brown  on  both  sides.  Arrange  them  on  an  oval-shaped 
dish,  garnish  with  parsley,  and  serve  with  Tartar  sauce. 

Eels  Mariniere. ‚Äî Cut  2  pounds  well-cleaned  fresh  eels  into  > 
3-inch  lengths  ;  season  with  1  tablespoonful  seasoning  salt ;  lay  in 
a  covered  dish  with  1  onion  cut  into  slices,  2  sprigs  of  parsley,  1 
sprig  of  thyme,  and  the  juice  of  1  lemon  ;  cover  and  let  stand  for  1 
hour.  Thirty  minutes  before  serving  wipe  dry,  and  dust  each  piece 
of  eel  lightly  with  flour,  dip  into  beaten  egg,  then  roll  in  fresh 
grated  bread  or  cracker  crumbs.  Place  a  frying  pan  with  1  table- 
spoonful lard  or  fat  over  the  fire,  add  Ys  tablespoonful  butter ;  as 
soon  as  hot  put  in  as  many  eel  pieces  as  will  conveniently  go  in, 
and  fry  to  a  delicate  brown.  In  the  meantime  peel  6  medium-sized 
potatoes,  cut  each  one  lengthwise  into  6  pieces,  wash  and  wipe  dry ; 
place  a  kettle  with  IY2  pound  fat  over  the  fire ;  as  soon  as  hot  put 
in  one  third  of  the  potato  pieces,  let  fry  until  brown  and  done,  then 


144  SEA  FOOD,  Etc. 

remove  to  blotting  or  brown  paper ;  fry  the  remaining  potatoes 
same  way.  When  ready  to  serve  arrange  the  eels  on  to  a  warm 
dish,  and  lay  the  potatoes  around  them,  sprinkle  1  teaspoonful 
chopped  parsley  over  all,  and  serve. 

Eel  Farci. ‚Äî Skin  and  clean  2  large  eels,  cut  off  head  and  tail, 
split  open  the  back,  remove  the  bones,  and  spread  the  eels  flat  on 
the  table  ;  season  each  with  1  teaspoonful  of  seasoning  salt.  Then 
prepare  a  fish  forcemeat,  as  follows :  Place  a  saucepan  with  Yg  cup 
cream  over  the  fire ;  when  boiling  add  2  tablespoonf uls  flour,  stir 
until  it  forms  into  a  smooth  paste ;  then  remove ;  add  gradually  1 
whole  egg  and  1  yolk,  stir  until  smooth ;  when  cold  mix  with  Yg 
pound  finely  pounded  pike  or  bass  meat,  Ya  cupful  fine-cut  boiled 
tongue,  2  fine-cut  truffles,  1  teaspoonful  seasoning  salt,  1  ounce 
butter,  Y4  teaspoonful  nutmeg ;  spread  this  forcemeat  over  the  eels, 
roll  up  and  cover  with  thin  slices  of  larding  pork ;  inclose  each  one 
separately  in  a  clean  napkin,  tie  the  napkin  on  each  end  and  in  the 
center  with  tape  ;  lay  them  on  a  grating  in  a  fish  kettle,  cover  with 
Ys  bottle  Rhine  wine  and  white  broth  ;  add  Ys  tablespoonful  salt,  a 
bouquet,  2  sliced  onions,  and  12  whole  peppers;  place  the  kettle 
over  the  fire ;  as  soon  as  it  boils  draw  the  kettle  to  side  of  stove ;  let 
simmer  40  minutes ;  remove,  and  let  the  eels  cool  in  the  broth ; 
then  take  them  out,  remove  the  napkin,  cut  the  eels  into  slices,  and 
lay  them  in  their  original  form  in  a  baking  pan ;  strain  the  broth 
into  a  saucepan,  place  it  over  the  fire,  and  reduce  it  to  half  glaze 
by  boiling ;  then  add  the  broth  to  the  eels ;  place  the  pan  in  the 
oven,  baste  often ;  let  the  eels  heat  through  and  glaze.  In  the 
meantime  place  1  cupful  parboiled  rice  in  a  saucepan ;  add  3  cup- 
fuls  milk  or  white  broth,  1  ounce  butter,  1  even  teaspoonful  salt, 
boil  until  done.  When  ready  to  serve,  put  the  rice  on  a  warm  dish, 
place  the  eels  on  top  of  it,  and  serve ;  or  arrange  the  eels  in  a  circle 
around  the  dish,  and  put  in  the  center  an  oyster  ragotit. 

Eels  in  Beer. ‚Äî Cut  2  pounds  well-cleaned  eels  into  2-inch 
lengths,  season  with  1  heaping  tablespoonful  salt,  mix  well  with  the 


SEA  FOOD,   Etc.  145 

salt,  place  for  1  hour  in  a  bowl.  Put  the  eels  in  a  saucepan,  cover 
with  boiling  water,  let  them  lie  2  minutes ;  then  drain  in  a  sieve 
and  pour  over  some  cold  water.  Eeturn  the  eels  in  a  saucepan  to 
the  fire,  cover  with  beer ;  add  2  fine-cut  onions,  1  bay  leaf,  2  cloves, 
12  whole  peppers,  1  lemon  cut  into  slices  and  freed  from  the  pits ; 
when  beginning  to  boil  draw  the  saucepan  to  side  of  stove,  and  let 
simmer  10  minutes;  then  remove  the  eels.  Mix  1  tablespoonful 
butter  with  Yg  tablespoonful  flour,  add  it  to  the  sauce ;  add  Yg  table- 
spoonful  sugar,  cook  and  stir  3  minutes ;  then  strain  the  sauce  into 
another  saucepan,  add  the  eels,  set  for  a  few  minutes  over  the  fire, 
and  serve  with  boiled  potatoes. 

Eels  a  la  Normande. ‚Äî Cut  lYs  pound  well-cleaned  eels  into 
pieces  2  inches  long  ;  place  them  in  a  saucepan,  add  1  tablespoonful 
salt,  Ys  teapoonf ul  pepper,  2  onions  cut  into  slices,  1  bay  leaf,  and 
2  sprigs  of  parsley ;  cover  with  IY4  cup  white  vinegar  or  Y2  cup  white 
wine  and  3  pints  cold  water;  set  the  saucepan  over  the  fire;  as 
soon  as  it  commences  to  boil  draw  the  saucepan  to  side  of  stove,  let 
it  simmer  (not  boil)  10  minutes.  At  the  same  time  place  a  sauce- 
pan with  1  tablespoonful  butter  over  the  fire ;  add  1  tablespoonful 
flour,  stir  and  cook  2  minutes ;  add  1  cupful  white  broth,  Ys  cupful 
mushroom  liquor,  and  Ys  cupful  of  the  eel  broth ;  cook  5  minutes ; 
mix  the  yolks  of  2  eggs  with  Ys  cupful  cream,  add  it  slowly  to  the 
sauce,  not  letting  it  boil  again ;  after  the  yolks  have  been  added  add 
the  juice  of  Ys  lemon  and  Ys  teaspoonf  ul  beef  extract  and  Ys  table- 
spoonful butter  in  small  pieces ;  lay  the  eels  in  a  warm  dish,  pour 
over  the  sauce,  and  serve  with  small  potato  dumplings. 

Eels  in  Jelly. ‚Äî Cut  lYs  pound  shank  of  veal  into  small  pieces, 
place  them  in  a  saucepan  over  the  fire,  cover  with  cold  water  ;  add 
1  teaspoonful  salt ;  when  beginning  to  boil,  add  2  onions  and  a 
bouquet,  cover  and  boil  till  the  meat  falls  from  the  bones.  In  the 
meantime  cut  2  pounds  medium-sized  eels  into  3-inch  lengths, 
season  with  2  tablespoonf uls  salt ;  mix  well  together  with  the  salt, 
and  set  for  1  hour  in  a  cool  place ;  then  put  into  a  saucepan,  and 


146  SEA  FOOD,  Etc. 

cover  with  boiling  water ;  after  2  minutes  drain  the  eels  in  a  sieve 
and  rinse  off  with  cold  water  ;  when  the  veal  is  done,  strain  the  broth 
through  a  napkin ;  place  the  eels  in  a  saucepan,  add  IY2  pint  of  the 
veal  broth,  Y2  pint  white  vinegar,  4  whole  cloves,  1  bay  leaf,  12  whole 
peppers,  1  onion  cut  into  slices,  Vs  tablespoonf  ul  sugar,  set  the  sauce- 
pan over  the  fire,  and  boil  slowly  till  done ‚Äî about  10  minutes ;  re- 
move the  eels,  lay  in  a  dish  or  bowl  large  enough  to  hold  them.  Beat 
the  whites  of  2  eggs  to  a  stiff  froth,  add  the  juice  of  1  lemon  and  a  lit- 
tle cold  water,  stir  this  into  the  broth,  continue  the  stirring,  and  boil 
5  minutes  ;  then  draw  the  saucepan  to  side  of  stove.  Place  a  small 
sieve  over  another  saucepan,  set  the  saucepan  in  a  vessel  of  hot 
water  over  the  fire,  lay  a  napkin  inside  the  sieve,  pour  the  broth 
through  it,  a  little  at  a  time  ;  when  strained,  pour  over  the  eels  and 
set  in  a  cool  place.    Serve  cold  with  mayonnaise  or  remolade. 

Eels  with.  Oysters. ‚Äî Cut  1  pound  eels  into  pieces  two  inches 
in  length,  season  with  1  even  tablespoonful  salt,  let  stand  Y2  hour  ; 
place  in  a  saucepan,  cover  with  boiling  water  ;  add  1  onion,  2  slices 
of  carrot,  a  bouquet,  6  whole  peppers,  and  3  tablespoonfuls  white 
vinegar ;  when  beginning  to  boil,  draw  to  side  of  stove  ;  let  simmer 
10  minutes.  At  the  same  time  place  1  pint  of  large  oysters,  with 
some  of  their  liquor,  over  the  fire,  add  the  juice  of  Yg  lemon,  Y2  table- 
spoonful  butter,  Ys  teaspoonful  seasoning  salt,  boil  2  minutes ;  then 
remove.  Melt  1  ounce  butter  in  another  saucepan,  add  1  heaping 
tablespoonful  flour,  stir  3  minutes ;  add  1  cupful  of  the  eel  broth 
and  the  broth  in  which  the  oysters  were  cooked  ;  add  Y2  teaspoonful 
beef  extract,  Ys  cupful  white  broth  or  water,  cook  5  minutes ;  mix 
the  yolks  of  2  eggs  with  1  tablespoonful  lemon  juice ;  add  it  slowly 
to  the  sauce,  not  letting  it  boil  again ;  add  last  3  tablespoonfuls 
cream  or  milk ;  lift  the  eels  from  the  broth,  drain  on  a  sieve,  add 
with  the  oysters  to  the  sauce  ;  toss  the  whole  for  a  few  minutes  over 
the  fire  ;  then  pour  it  over  6  small  slices  of  buttered  toast.  In  place 
of  toast,  small  potato  dumplings  boiled  in  salted  water  and  sauted 
brown  in  butter  may  be  served  with  the  dish. 


SEA  FOOD,  Etc.  14Y 

Eels  a  la  Matelote. ‚Äî Out  2  pounds  well- cleaned  medium-sized, 
eels  into  2-incli  pieces,  sprinkle  over  1  heaping  tablespoonful  salt ; 
mix  salt  and  eels  well  together ;  put  in  a  saucepan  and.  let  stand  1 
hour ;  then  place  the  saucepan  over  the  fire,  cover  with  boiling 
water,  let  simmer  3  minutes  ;  remove  the  eels  and  drain  on  a  sieve. 
Place  another  saucepan  with  Yg  pint  red  wine  over  the  fire,  add  lYg 
pint  of  white  broth,  1  onion  cut  into  slices,  a  bouquet,  and  12  whole 
peppers,  boil  5  minutes,  then  add  the  eels ;  draw  the  saucepan  to 
side  of  stove  and  simmer  10  minutes.  At  the  same  time  melt  2 
ounces  butter  in  a  saucepan,  add  lYg  tablespoonful  flour,  stir  3  minutes ; 
remove  the  eels  from  the  saucepan  to  a  warm  dish ;  strain  the  broth, 
add  it  to  the  flour  and  butter,  add  Ys  can  of  small  mushrooms, 
and  cook  15  minutes ;  add  Ys  teaspoonf ul  beef  extract,  and  if  neces- 
sary a  little  seasoning  salt.  Arrange  the  eels,  12  small  cooked 
white  onions,  and  12  fish  forcemeat  balls  on  a  round  or  oval- 
shaped  dish ;  lay  in  a  circle  6  small  slices  of  buttered  toast  or 
bread  croutons  around  the  edge  of  dish,  pour  over  the  sauce, 
and  serve. 

Eels,  Collared. ‚Äî Clean  and  split  1  large  eel  on  the  back  and 
remove  the  bones,  head,  and  tail,  wash  and  sprinkle  with  salt,  and 
set  the  eel  aside  for  Ys  hour.  Cut  3  hard-boiled  eggs,  also  2  small 
pickles,  in  small  strips,  and  add  a  little  fine-cut  beet,  1  tablespoon- 
ful capers,  Ys  teaspoonful  fine-chopped  parsley  and  tarragon,  2 
small  grated  onions,  and  3  fine-chopped  anchovies  without  skin  and 
bones.  Mix  these  ingredients  well  together,  dry  the  eels  with  a 
cloth,  spread  out  on  the  table  and  put  the  mixture  over  it, 
sprinkle  a  little  pepper  over,  roll  up ;  wrap  up  in  a  cloth,  and  tie 
with  tape ;  boil  in  half  water  and  half  vinegar  with  a  little  salt,  2 
onions,  and  a  bouquet  Ys  hour.  When  done  take  out  the  eel,  lay 
between  2  boards,  place  a  weight  on  top,  and  press  until  cold ;  then 
take  it  out,  remove  the  tape  and  cloth,  and  if  not  used  at  once,  lay 
it  back  into  the  liquor  in  which  it  was  boiled.  When  ready  to 
serve,  cut  it  into  slices  and  serve  with  remolade  sauce. 


148  SEA  FOOD,  Etc. 

Eels ‚Äî How  to  smoke. ‚Äî Take  medium-sized  eels,  clean  and 
leave  the  skins  on,  wash,  dry,  and  rub  each  one  with  a  little  salt 
(care  must  be  taken  not  to  take  too  much  salt),  and  set  in  a  cool 
place  for  24  hours ;  turn  them  twice  during  that  time.  Put  a  stick 
through  the  eyes,  hang  about  10  eels  on  the  stick  over  a  barrel 
without  a  bottom,  cover  it  with  thick,  coarse  sack  linen ;  place  the 
barrel  over  a  pan  of  burning  charcoal  (sawdust  must  be  put  on  the 
top  of  the  burning  coal,  so  as  to  make  a  good  smoke),  and  let  the 
eels  smoke  about  3  days,  according  to  size. 

Smoked  Eels,  Broiled. ‚Äî Cut  large  smoked  eels  into  pieces  3 
inches  in  length ;  place  them  on  a  broiler  over  a  clear  fire  ;  broil  3 
minutes  on  each  side.     Serve  with  cut  lemons. 

SMELTS. 

In  season  from  the  middle  of  August  to  the  middle  of  April. 

Smelts  fried  in  Pork. ‚Äî Clean,  wash,  and  wipe  dry  ly^ 
pound  smelts,  remove  the  heads ;  season  the  fish  with  1  even  table- 
spoonful  of  seasoning  salt ;  roll  in  flour ;  cut  6  ounces  larding  pork 
into  small  pieces,  place  it  in  a  frying  pan,  and  fry  till  it  begins  to 
turn  a  delicate  brown ;  then  pour  half  the  pork  in  a  small  saucepan 
and  keep  it  in  a  warm  place ;  lay  as  many  smelts  in  the  remaining 
pork  in  pan  as  can  conveniently  go  in  ;  fry  light  brown  first  on  one 
side,  then  turn  and  fry  the  other  side,  adding  more  of  the  pork  in 
saucepan  as  the  frying  continues.  When  all  are  fried,  arrange  them 
nicely  on  a  warm  dish,  garnish  with  parsley  and  1  lemon  cut  into 
lengthwise  pieces ;  serve  with  Lyonnaise  potatoes.  In  place  of  pork 
lard  or  beef  fat  may  be  taken. 

Smelts  a  la  Dresden. ‚Äî Clean,  wash,  and  wipe  dry  18  large 
smelts,  split  them  down  through  the  back,  remove  the  backbones, 
and  season  with  1  even  tablespoonful  seasoning  salt.  Stuff  the 
smelts  with  fish  forcemeat,  close  and  give  them  their  original  shape 
again ;  lay  in  a  buttered  dish,  sprinkle  over  1  tablespoonful  fine- 
chopped  onion  and  2  tablespoonfuls  lemon  juice;  add  3   table- 


SEA  FOOD,  Etc.  149 

spoonfuls  white  wine,  Yg  cupful  white  broth,  and  pour  1  ounce 
melted  butter  over  them ;  place  in  a  moderate  oven,  baste  frequent- 
ly, and  bake  till  done.  In  the  meantime  melt  1  tablespoonful  but- 
,ter  in  a  saucepan,  add  1  tablespoonful  flour,  stir  for  a  few  minutes ; 
add  %  piiit  white  broth  and  the  gravy  from  the  smelts,  3  table- 
spoonfuls  mushroom  liquor,  boil  5  minutes  ;  then  strain  into  a  clean 
saucepan.  Mix  the  yolks  of  3  eggs  with  Yg  cupful  cream,  add  it 
slowly  to  the  sauce,  also  Y2  tablespoonful  lemon  juice  and  Y4  tea- 
spoonful  seasoning  salt,  and  a  little  beef  extract ;  let  the  sauce  get 
hot  but  do  not  allow  it  to  boil.  Arrange  the  smelts  nicely  on  a  hot 
dish,  pour  a  little  of  the  sauce  over  each  one,  and  serve  the  remain- 
ing sauce  in  a  sauce  bowl ;  garnish  the  dish  with  potatoes  a  la 
patricia,  or  serve  plain  boiled  potatoes  with  it. 

Smelts,  Broiled. ‚Äî Clean,  wash,  and  wipe  dry  lYs  pound  of 
large  smelts,  season  with  1  even  tablespoonful  seasoning  salt,  let  lie 
Y2  hour ;  then  dip  each  smelt  into  melted  butter,  roll  in  fresh  grated 
bread  crumbs,  place  on  a  broiler  over  a  moderate  fire,  and  broil  5 
minutes  on  each  side.  Arrange  on  a  warm  dish  and  garnish  with 
water  cress.  Stir  2  ounces  butter  to  a  cream,  add  slowly  2  table- 
spoonfuls  lemon  juice,  1  even  teaspoonful  nutmeg,  and  1  table- 
spoonful very  fine-chopped  parsley ;  spread  this  over  the  fish,  and 
serve  with  French  fried  potatoes. 

Smelts  a  la  Bremoise.‚Äî Procure  18  large  smelts,  clean  and 
wash  the  fish,  remove  the  eyes  from  the  head,  split  the  fish  up  the 
back,  and  remove  the  backbone ;  season  with  1  teaspoonful  season- 
ing salt ;  lay  in  a  covered  dish  with  1  sliced  onion,  1  sprig  of  thyme, 
the  juice  of  1  lemon,  and  some  fresh  parsley ;  cover  and  let  stand  1 
hour.  In  the  meantime  put  the  yolks  of  3  eggs  into  a  small  bowl, 
add  Y4  teaspoonful  salt,  Ys  cupful  milk,  and  3  tablespoonfuls  flour  ; 
stir  this  to  a  smooth  batter.  Melt  Y2  tablespoonful  butter,  add  it 
to  the  batter,  and  the  3  whites  beaten  to  a  stiff  froth.  Place  a 
kettle  or  a  deep  frying  pan  over  the  fire  with  IY2  pound  fat  or 
lard ;  when  hot,  take  each  smelt  separately  on  a  larding  needle, 


150  SEA  FOOD,  Etc. 

dip  into  the  batter,  then  drop  it  into  the  boiling  fat  (put  in  about 
3  or  4  at  a  time),  fry  light  brown  on  both  sides,  lay  them  a  few 
minutes  on  a  blotting  paper  to  absorb  the  grease;  when  all  are 
fried  in  this^  way  arrange  them  on  a  hot  dish.  Wash  and  dry  on  a 
towel  1  handful  fresh  parsley,  remove  the  stems,  drop  the  parsley 
into  the  hot  fat,  fry  2  minutes ;  then  remove  it  with  a  skimmer, 
lay  it  a  few  minutes  on  blotting  paper,  sprinkle  over  some  salt,  lay 
this  around  the  smelts,  and  serve  with  sauce  Tartare. 

Smelts  Mariniere. ‚Äî Clean,  wash,  and  wipe  V-J^  pound  smelts, 
season  with  1  even  tablespoonful  salt,  sprinkle  over  the  juice  of  1 
lemon,  lay  the  fish  in  a  covered  dish  with  1  onion  cut  into  slices,  1 
sprig  of  thyme,  and  3  sprigs  of  parsley;  cover  and  let  stand  V2 
hour ;  then  remove  and  wipe  dry  with  a  clean  towel,  dust  lightly 
with  flour,  dip  each  smelt  into  beaten  egg,  then  roll  in  fresh 
grated  bread  crumbs,  and  fry  light  brown  in  hot  lard.  Arrange 
the  smelts  on  a  warm  dish,  garnish  with  parsley,  serve  with  2 
ounces  melted  butter  to  which  the  juice  of  Yg  lemon  and  1  tea- 
spoonful  fine-chopped  parsley  have  been  added  ;  serve  peeled  boiled 
potatoes  and  lettuce  salad  with  it. 

FLOUNDERS  AND  SOLE. 

Flounders  and  its  Species. ‚Äî A  flat  fish  of  the  family  Pleuro- 
nedidcB  or  PlanidcB,  which  also  includes  halibut,  sole,  and  turbot 
This  family,  containing  150  species,  is  generally  found  in  shallow 
waters  where  the  bottom  is  sandy;  but  the  halibut  and  turbot  are 
caught  in  deep  waters.  The  common  flounder  of  Massachusetts 
varies  in  length  from  10  to  22  inches.  This  species  is  considered 
excellent  for  the  table ;  the  flesh  is  white  and  firm,  and  is  in  good 
condition  all  the  year  except  in  February  and  March,  when  spawn- 
ing. They  are  abundant  in  summer  and  autumn  on  the  coast  of 
New  Brunswick  and  Nova  Scotia.  Flounders  are  mostly  prepared 
like  fillet  of  sole. 

Fillet  of  Sole  or  Flounders‚Äî How  to  prepare.‚Äî Place  the 
fish  on  a  table  with  the  white  side  under,  cut  off  the  head,  remove 


SEA  FOOD,  Etc.  151 

the  gills  and  entrails ;  then  make  a  cut  straight  down  the  back 
from  the  head  to  the  tail,  make  with  a  knife  a  slight  incision  at 
the  tail  part  large  enough  to  get  hold  of  the  brown  skin  ;  with  the 
thumb  and  forefinger  of  the  left  hand,  and  a  knife  in  the  right 
hand  placed  on  the  tail  bone,  tear  off  the  skin  with  one  stroke ;  cut 
off  with  a  scissors  the  small  bones  on  the  outside,  make  a  straight 
incision  on  the  white  skin  side  to  the  middle  bone,  then  separate 
the  meat  from  the  bones.  This  meat  is  called  the  fillets,  each  fish 
having  4  fillets ;  the  fillets,  if  large,  are  cut  in  two,  and  if  small 
are  left  whole. 

Fillet  of  Flounder  a  la  Berlinoise. ‚Äî Season  the  fillets  of  2 
medium-sized  flounders,  each  one  weighing  about  lYa  pound,  with 
pepper  and  salt,  sprinkle  over  the  juice  of  1  lemon ;  lay  them  in  a 
covered  dish  with  1  large  onion  cut  into  slices,  Yg  bunch  of  parsley, 
and  2  sprigs  of  thyme ;  cover  the  dish,  and  let  it  stand  1  hour.  Twenty 
minutes  before  serving  mix  the  yolks  of  2  eggs  with  Yg  cup  milk, 
add  Y*  teaspoonful  salt,  2  heaping  tablespoonfuls  flour,  Ys  table- 
spoonful  melted  butter,  and  stir  to  a  smooth  batter ;  then  add  the 
whites  previously  beaten  to  a  stiff  froth.  Wipe  the  fillets  dry  with 
a  clean  towel,  dip  each  piece  separately  into  the  batter,  then  drop 
into  boiling  fat  and  fry  light  brown  on  both  sides,  continuing  until 
all  are  fried.  Lay  the  fish  for  a  few  minutes  on  blotting  paper, 
then  arrange  them  on  a  warm  dish,  and  serve  with  boiled  potatoes 
and  sauce  described  below. 

Sauce. ‚Äî Place  a  small  saucepan  with  1  tablespoonful  butter 
over  the  fire,  add  1  fine-chopped  onion,  and  cook  until  the  onion 
begins  to  turn  a  delicate  brown ;  then  strain ;  then  add  1  table- 
spoonful  flour,  stir  and  cook  2  minutes ;  add  1  cupful  soup  stock  or 
1  cupful  water  with  1  teaspoonful  beef  extract,  Ys  cupful  mushroom 
liquor,  Yi  teaspoonful  pepper,  1  even  teaspoonful  salt,  1  teaspoonful 
vinegar,  cook  5  minutes  ;  add  2  tablespoonfuls  French  mustard,  and 
serve. 

Fillet  of  Flounder  a  la  Yiennoise. ‚Äî Remove  the  fillets 
from  2  flounders,  each  weighing  about  Y4  pound,  season  6  fillets  with 


152  SEA  FOOD,  Etc. 

pepper  and  salt,  chop  the  remaining  2  very  fine  ;  set  aside.  Melt  1 
tablespoonful  butter  in  a  small  saucepan,  add  1  fine-chopped  onion, 
cook  3  minutes ;  then  add  Yg  cupful  fine-chopped  mushrooms,  cook 
5  minutes ;  remove  from  fire,  add  1  teaspoonful  fine-chopped  pars- 
ley and  1  even  teaspoonful  seasoning  salt,  also  the  fine-chopped 
fillet.  Place  Y2  cup  water  and  Y2  teaspoonful  butter  over  the  fire ; 
as  soon  as  it  boils  add  2  tablespoonf uls  flour,  stir  until  it  forms  into 
a  smooth  paste  ;  remove  from  fire,  add  1  well-beaten  egg,  stir  until 
perfectly  smooth  ;  add  the  above  preparation  and  Yi  teaspoonful 
salt;  cover  each  fillet  with  a  thin  layer  of  this  forcemeat,  roll  up, 
and  set  close  together  in  a  buttered  pan ;  sprinkle  over  2  tablespoon- 
f  uls  lemon  Juice  and  2  ounces  melted  butter ;  set  the  pan  in  a  hot 
oven  and  bake  till  done ‚Äî about  15  minutes.  Eemove  the  rolls  to  a 
warm  dish,  add  Ys  tablespoonful  flour  to  the  butter  in  which  the 
rolls  were  baked,  stir  a  few  minutes,  add  1  cup  white  broth  and  a 
small  bouquet,  2  tablespoonfuls  mushroom  liquor,  Y*  teaspoonful 
seasoning  salt,  boil  5  minutes ;  then  remove  the  bouquet.  Mix  the 
yolk  of  1  egg  with  1  tablespoonful  lemon  juice,  add  it  slowly  to  the 
sauce,  add  Y2  tablespoonful  butter  in  small  pieces,  and  a  little  beef 
extract. 

Fillet  of  Sole  or  Flounder  a  la  Yenitienne.‚Äî Wash  and 

wipe  dry  the  fillets  from  2  medium-sized  flounders,  mix  1  even 
tablespoonful  salt  with  Y2  teaspoonful  pepper,  sprinkle  over  the 
fillets,  and  fold  each  one  double ;  place  in  a  baking  pan,  sprinkle 
over  the  juice  of  1  lemon,  and  pour  over  2  ounces  melted  butter; 
set  the  pan  in  a  hot  oven,  and  bake  from  10  to  15  minutes ;  as  soon 
as  done,  remove  the  fillets  to  a  long  flat  dish,  cover  with  buttered 
paper,  and  lay  a  light  weight  over  them.  "When  cold  mix  the  yolks 
of  2  eggs  with  1  ounce  melted  butter,  dip  each  fillet  separately  into 
the  yolk  and  butter,  and  roll  in  fresh  grated  bread  crumbs ;  lay  on  a 
broiler  and  broil  to  a  delicate  brown  on  both  sides.  Arrange  the 
fillets  in  a  circle  around  a  warm  dish,  and  put  a  lobster  ragout  in 
the  center. 


SEA  FOOD,  Etc.  153 

Fillet  of  Sole  or  Flounders  a  la  Normande.‚Äî Season  the 

fillets  of  2  medium-sized  flounders  with  pepper  and  salt,  make  a 
slight  incision  across  the  middle  of  each  fillet,  fold  them  double, 
lay  them  in  a  baking  pan,  and  sprinkle  over  2  tablespoonfuls  lemon 
juice  and  2  ounces  melted  butter.  Fifteen  minutes  before  serving 
place  the  pan  in  a  hot  oven  and  bake  till  done ‚Äî about  10  minutes. 
Arrange  the  fillet  in  a  circle  on  a  warm  dish,  pour  a  little  of  the 
sauce  from  the  ragout  mentioned  below  over  the  fillets,  sprinkle 
over  3  tablespoonfuls  fried  bread  crumbs,  place  the  dish  for  a  few 
minutes  in  the  oven ;  pour  the  oyster  ragout  in  the  center,  and 
serve. 

Eagout  of  Oysters. ‚Äî Place  a  saucepan  with  1  quart  large 
oysters  over  the  fire,  let  come  to  a  boil,  lift  out  with  a  skimmer,  lay 
on  a  dish,  remove  the  beards,  and  set  the  oysters  aside.  Melt  2 
ounces  butter  in  a  saucepan,  add  IY2  tablespoonful  flour,  stir  and 
cook  2  minutes,  add  Yg  pint  white  broth,  Y2  pint  of  the  oyster  liquor, 
Ys  can  mushrooms,  2  tablespoonfuls  white  wine,  1  even  teaspoonful 
salt,  Y4  teaspoonful  pepper,  cook  15  minutes ;  then  draw  the  sauce- 
pan to  side  of  stove.  Mix  the  yolks  of  2  eggs  with  the  juice  of  Ys 
lemon,  add  it  slowly  to  the  sauce ;  add  the  oysters,  let  it  get  hot,  but 
not  boil.  Prepare  also  12  fish  forcemeat  balls,  boil  in  salted  water, 
lay  in  center  of  dish,  pour  the  oyster  ragout  over  it,  and  serve. 

Fillet  of  Flounder  ^  la  Fran^aise. ‚Äî Eemove  the  fillets 
from  2  medium-sized  flounders,  season  with  1  even  tablespoonful 
salt,  fold  the  fillets  double,  and  lay  them  in  a  small  buttered  baking 
pan ;  sprinkle  over  1  fine-chopped  onion  and  Y2  cupful  fine-chopped 
mushrooms ;  add  Y2  cupful  white  wine ;  set  the  pan  aside  for  Ys 
hour.  Place  the  bones,  head,  and  skin  of  the  fish  in  a  sauce- 
pan, cover  with  cold  water,  add  a  few  slices  of  carrot,  1  sliced 
onion,  6  whole  peppers,  1  even  teaspoonful  salt,  and  a  bouquet,  boil 
20  minutes;  then  strain  through  a  napkin;  add  sufficient  of  this 
broth  to  cover  the  fillets.  Place  the  pan  over  the  fire,  as  soon  as  it 
commences  to  boil  set  in  the  oven,  cook  slowly  8  minutes ;  when 


154:  SEA  FOOD,  Etc. 

done  remove  the  fillets  with  a  skimmer  to  a  warm  dish,  and  strain 
the  broth.  Melt  1  tablespoonf  ul  butter  in  a  saucepan ;  add  1  table- 
spoonful  flour,  stir  3  minutes ;  then  add  Yg  cupful  of  the  fish  broth, 
Ya  cupful  white  broth,  1  cupful  oyster  liquor,  cook  5  minutes ;  mix 
the  yolks  of  2  eggs,  with  the  juice  of  Y2  lemon,  add  it  sloAvly  to  the 
sauce,  draw  the  saucepan  to  side  of  stove,  and  add  Yg  tablespoonf  ul 
butter  in  small  pieces.  Place  1  dozen  large  oysters  without  their 
liquor  in  a  saucepan,  add  1  tablespoonf  ul  lemon  juice,  Ys  even  tea- 
spoonful  seasoning  salt,  cook  2  minutes ;  add  Ys  pint  shrimp  tails, 
pour  over  a  few  spoonfuls  of  the  sauce,  and  keep  warm.  Arrange 
the  fillets  nicely  on  a  round  or  oval-shaped  hot  dish  and  lay  the 
oysters  and  shrimps  in  a  circle  around  them,  pour  the  sauce  over, 
and  serve. 

Fillet  of  Sole  with  Tartar  Sauce. ‚Äî Procure  the  fillets  from 
2  soles,  each  weighing  about  IY2  pound,  wash  and  wipe  them  dry 
with  a  clean  towel,  season  with  1  tablespoonful  seasoning  salt, 
equally  distributed  over  each  fillet ;  lay  them  in  a  covered  dish  with 
1  sliced  onion,  3  sprigs  of  parsley,  1  sprig  of  thyme,  and  the  juice 
of  1  lemon  or  lime ;  cover  and  let  it  stand  Y2  hour.  Twenty  min- 
utes before  serving  wipe  the  fillets  dry  with  a  towel  and  dust  lightly 
with  flour ;  crack  2  eggs  in  a  bowl  and  beat  until  light,  take  each 
fillet  on  a  fork,  dip  first  into  the  beaten  egg,  then  roll  into  grated 
bread  crumbs ;  when  all  are  prepared  in  this  way  place  a  frying 
pan  with  2  tablespoonf uls  lard  or  fat  over  the  fire ;  as  soon  as  hot 
put  in  as  many  fillets  as  will  conveniently  lie  in  the  pan  without 
crowding  each  other ;  fry  light  brown  on  both  sides ;  arrange  the 
fillets  on  a  warm  dish  and  serve  with  Tartar  sauce. 

Fillet  of  Sole  Farci. ‚Äî Eemove  the  fillets  from  2  medium- 
sized  soles  or  flounders,  season  6  fillets  with  pepper  and  salt,  and 
set  the  remaining  2  aside  for  forcemeat.  Place  a  small  saucepan 
with  Ys  cup  water  and  Y2  teaspoonful  butter  over  the  fire ;  as  soon  as 
it  begins  to  boil  add  2  tablespoonfuls  flour,  stir  to  a  smooth  paste, 
then  remove  from  fire ;  add  1  well-beaten  egg,  stir  until  smooth, 


SEA  FOOD,  Etc.  155 

then  set  aside  to  cool ;  fry  1  fine-chopped  onion  in  1  ounce  butter  3 
minutes,  add  6  fine-chopped  mushrooms,  cook  and  stir  a  few  min- 
utes longer;  season  with  1  teaspoonful  seasoning  salt.  Eemove 
from  fire,  add  Yg  tablespoonful  fine-chopped  parsley,  add  the  paste, 
and  mix  all  well  together ;  then  add  the  2  fillets,  previously  finely 
chopped,  add  Y2  teaspoonful  salt  and  a  little  pepper ;  spread  a  thin 
layer  of  this  forcemeat  over  each  fillet,  fold  them  double,  with  the 
forcemeat  inside,  lay  in  a  buttered  baking  pan,  pour  over  the  juice  of 
Ys  lemon,  and  sprinkle  over  2  ounces  melted  butter.  Place  them  in 
a  hot  oven,  to  bake  from  10  to  15  minutes  ;  then  remove  the  fillets 
carefully  to  a  long,  flat  dish,  cover  with  buttered  paper,  lay  a  light 
weight  over  them,  and  let  stand  till  cold.  Fifteen  minutes  before 
serving  mix  the  yolks  of  2  eggs  with  1  ounce  melted  butter,  dip  the 
fillets  first  in  the  yolks  and  butter,  then  in  fresh  grated  bread 
crumbs,  lay  on  a  broiler  and  broil  over  a  moderate  clear  fire,  light 
brown  on  both  sides.  Serve  with  oyster  sauce,  or  arrange  the  fillets 
in  a  circle  around  the  dish  and  pour  a  lobster  or  crab  ragout  in  the 
center. 

Flounders  Farcis  a  la  Messalina.‚Äî Procure  the  fillets  from 
2  medium-sized  flounders,  chop  2  fillets  very  fine,  and  season  the  re- 
maining 6  with  1  even  tablespoonful  seasoning  salt ;  lay  them  in  a 
covered  dish,  with  1  sliced  onion,  a  sprig  of  thyme,  3  sprigs  of 
parsley,  and  the  juice  of  1  lemon ;  cover  the  dish,  and  let  it  stand  1 
hour.  Mix  the  2  fine-chopped  fillets  with  Ya  cupful  fresh  grated 
bread  crumbs,  1  tablespoonful  butter,  1  well  beaten  egg,  Ys  grated 
onion,  2  tablespoonfuls  cream,  and  1  teaspoonful  seasoning  salt. 
Twenty  minutes  before  serving  wipe  the  fillets  dry,  spread  a  thin  layer 
of  the  forcemeat  over  each  fillet,  fold  double,  so  that  the  forcemeat  is 
between  them ;  insert  a  crawfish  claw  in  the  pointed  edge  of  each 
fillet ;  lay  in  a  buttered  pan,  add  3  tablespoonfuls  Rhine  wine,  pour 
2  ounces  of  melted  butter  over  the  fillets  and  the  juice  of  half  a  lemon  ; 
cover  with  buttered  paper,  set  the  pan  in  a  hot  oveu,  and  bake  till 
done ;  then  carefully  remove  the  fillets  to  a  warm  dish  ;  put  a  bunch 
11 


156  SEA  FOOD,  Etc. 

of  fried  parsley  in  the  center,  arrange  the  fillets  around  it,  and 
around  the  fillets  lay  fried  tomatoes  (see  Tomatoes)  ;  add  to  the  fish 
gravy  Y2  tablespoonful  flour,  stir  and  cook  3  minutes;  add  1  cup  of 
boiling  water,  3  tablespoonfuls  cream,  1  teaspoonful  beef  extract, 
cook  5  minutes ;  mix  the  yolk  of  1  egg  with  Y2  tablespoonful  lemon 
juice,  add  it  slowly  to  the  sauce ;  add  lastly  Y2  tablespoonful  of 
butter  in  small  pieces,  y^  teaspoonful  seasoning  salt,  and  serve.  In 
place  of  this  sauce,  a  tomato  or  Robert  sauce  may  be  served  with  the 
fillets. 

Flounders,  Fried.‚Äî Select  2  medium-sized  flounders,  clean, 
wash  and  wipe  them  dry,  season  each  one  with  Y^  tablespoonful  sea- 
soning salt,  remove  the  head  and  tail,  make  2  incisions  on  the  brown- 
skin  side,  and  roll  the  fish  in  flour.  Cut  4  ounces  larding  pork  into 
small  pieces,  place  in  a  frying  pan  over  the  fire,  and  fry  light 
brown ;  put  in  the  fish  and  fry  till  done  and  light  brown  on  both 
sides,  serve  on  a  hot  dish,  and  garnish  with  1  lemon  cut  lengthwise 
into  6  pieces.  Serve  with  mustard  sauce  or  melted  butter  and 
boiled  or  baked  potatoes.  Another  way  is  to  cut  the  fish  into  3  or  4 
pieces,  season  it  with  salt,  and  dust  lightly  with  flour ;  then  dip  in 
beaten  egg  and  roll  in  cracker  crumbs ;  fry  in  hot  lard  or  half  lard 
and  half  butter. 

HALIBUT. 

In  season  the  year  round. 

Halibut  a  la  Maitre  d'Hotel. ‚Äî Procure  2  thin  slices  of  halibut 
weighing  2  pounds  ;  cut  each  slice  into  3  pieces,  remove  the  bone  in 
center,  and  the  skin;  season  with  1  tablespoonful  seasoning  salt, 
equally  distributed  on  both  sides  of  the  fish  ;  sprinkle  over  the  juice 
of  1  lemon ;  lay  the  fish  pieces  with  1  sliced  onion  in  a  covered  dish  ; 
add  Y2  bunch  parsley  and  1  sprig  of  thyme,  cover  and  let  stand  30 
minutes ;  then  wipe  the  pieces  dry,  dust  lightly  with  flour,  dip 
each  piece  first  into  beaten  egg,  then  in  freshly  rolled  cracker 
crumbs.  Place  a  frying  pan  with  1  tablespoonful  lard  and  Y2  table- 
spoonful butter  over  the  fire;  as  soon  as  melted,  put  in  as  many 


SEA  FOOD,  Etc.  157 

fish  pieces  as  will  conveniently  lie  in  the  pan  without  crowding,  and 
fry  to  a  delicate  brown  ;  when  all  are  fried  in  this  way,  arrange  them 
nicely  on  a  warm  dish  and  spread  2  ounces  maitre  d'hotel  butter 
over,  garnish  with  parsley,  and  serve  with  plain  boiled  potatoes. 

Halil)ut  a  la  Tartare. ‚Äî Cut  2  thin  slices  of  fresh  halibut  into 
6  pieces,  remove  the  skin  and  center  bone,  season  with  1  table- 
spoonful  salt,  dust  the  fish  pieces  lightly  with  flour,  dip  into  beaten 
egg,  and  cover  with  fine  bread  crumbs  ;  fry  light  brown  in  lard  or 
half  lard  and  half  butter,  and  well  done.  Serve  on  a  warm  dish 
with  sauce  Tartare. 

Halibut,  Boiled. ‚Äî Procure  a  piece  of  fresh  halibut  weighing  3 
pounds ;  place  it  on  a  grating  of  a  fish  kettle,  cover  with  boiling 
water  ;  add  Y4  cup  of  vinegar,  2  tablespoonfuls  salt,  1  sliced  onion,  a 
bouquet,  and  12  whole  peppers ;  as  soon  as  it  begins  to  boil  remove 
the  kettle  to  side  of  stove ;  let  it  simmer  (not  boil)  till  done,  which 
will  take  from  10  to  20  minutes.  When  ready  to  serve,  lift  the 
grating  out  of  the  kettle,  slide  the  fish  on  to  a  warm  dish,  and  serve 
with  sauce  Hollandaise,  oyster,  shrimp,  egg,  or  mustard  sauce. 

Halibut  iu  Mayonnaise.‚Äî Pick  2  pounds  of  fresh  boiled  halibut 
into  pieces,  sprinkle  over  the  juice  of  Yg  lemon,  and  mix  it  with  3 
fine-cut  hard-boiled  eggs.  Put  in  a  small  double  boiler  2  whole 
eggs,  beat  with  an  egg  beater  until  very  light ;  add  slowly  4  table- 
spoonfuls  oil,  then  4  tablespoonfuls  white  vinegar ;  place  this  over 
the  fire  and  stir  till  thick ;  then  remove.  When  cold,  add  again 
slowly  4  tablespoonfuls  of  oil ;  season  with  1  teaspoonful  salt,  2  tea- 
spoonfuls  sugar,  Yg  teaspoonful  English  mixed  mustard,  or  1  table- 
spoonful  French  mustard ;  add  last  1  cupful  cream  whipped  very 
stiff,  mix  half  of  the  sauce  with  the  fish ;  put  it  in  a  salad  dish,  give 
it  a  dome-shape,  cover  with  the  remaining  mayonnaise,  and  decorate 
with  lettuce  leaves  and  hard-boiled  eggs ;  then  serve.  In  place  of 
2  whole  eggs  4  yolks  may  be  used. 


158  SEA  FOOD,  Etc. 

TURBOT. 

In  season ‚Äî tlie  English  from  January  to  March  ;   the  American 
from  January  to  July. 

Turbot ‚Äî Where  found,  etc. ‚Äî Turbot  belongs  to  the  flatfish 
family.  The  European  turbot,  the  finest  of  the  family,  sometimes 
measures  6  feet  in  width  and  weighs  over  200  pounds.  The  Amer- 
ican turbot  is  from  12  to  18  inches  long  and  6  to  8  inches  wide, 
sometimes  attaining  a  weight  of  20  pounds.  It  is  found  along  the 
coast  of  the  New  England  States ;  its  meat  is  delicate  and  highly 
esteemed  as  food,  and  has  the  shape  of  a  chicken  halibut. 

English  Turhot,  Boiled. ‚Äî Procure  a  fresh  turbot  scale,  draw 
and  wash  it,  lay  it  with  a  piece  of  ice  in  half  milk  and  half  water, 
let  it  soak  for  1  to  2  hours,  then  remove  the  fish  and  rub  both  sides 
over  with  lemon  juice ;  lay  the  fish  on  a  drainer  in  a  fish  kettle, 
cover  with  cold  water,  add  to  every  quart  of  water  1  tablespoonful 
salt  and  1  tablespoonful  vinegar,  place  the  kettle  over  a  strong  fire  ; 
as  soon  as  it  commences  to  boil,  draw  it  to  side  of  stove  and  let 
simmer  till  done.  When  ready  to  serve,  lift  the  turbot  out  of 
kettle,  drain  and  slip  it  on  to  a  warm  dish,  rub  a  little  butter  over 
the  white  surface,  garnish  with  parsley,  and  serve  with  sauce 
Hollandaise  and  boiled  potatoes. 

American  Turhot  a  la  Diplomate. ‚Äî Remove  the  fillets  from 
a  medium-sized  turbot,  cut  them  half -heart  shape,  season  with  sea- 
soning salt ;  put  the  fillets  in  a  covered  dish  with  2  fine-chopped 
onions,  some  fresh  parsley,  and  nearly  covered  with  white  wine ;  let 
them  lie  in  the  marinade  1  hour ;  then  place  the  fish  in  a  thickly 
buttered  pan,  add  the  marinade  ;  set  the  pan  over  the  fire,  and  boil 
5  minutes ;  then  place  it  in  a  medium  oven,  cover  with  buttered 
paper,  and  bake  till  done,  basting  frequently.  At  the  same  time 
place  1  pint  of  oysters  without  their  liquor  in  a  saucepan  over  the 
fire,  add  the  juice  of  Ya  lemon,  '/g  teaspoonful  seasoning  salt,  Yg 
tablespoonful  butter,  and  cook  2  minutes ;  then  remove  the  oysters. 


SEA  FOOD,  Etc.  I59 

Melt  in  another  saucepan  1  tablespoonful  butter,  add  1  tablespoon- 
f ul  flour,  stir  2  minutes ;  add  Yg  cupful  white  broth,  Yg  cupful  of  the 
fish  broth,  Ys  cupful  oyster  broth,  Y2  Q^Qt^  teaspoonful  seasoning  salt, 
a  little  beef  extract,  cook  5  minutes  ;  then  strain  in  another  sauce- 
pan. Mix  the  yolks  of  2  eggs  with  Y2  cupful  cream,  add  it  slowly  to 
the  sauce,  add  Ys  tablespoonful  butter  in  small  pieces,  let  the  sauce 
get  hot,  add  the  oysters,  and  set  the  saucepan  in  a  warm  place. 
When  the  fish  is  done  lay  half  of  the  fillets  in  a  warm  dish,  pour 
over  some  of  the  sauce  and  oysters  ;  lay  over  the  other  fillets,  pour 
over  a  little  more  sauce,  and  cover  with  2  tablespoonf uls  fresh  grated 
bread  crumbs,  mixed  with  2  tablespoonfuls  grated  Parmesan  cheese. 
Set  the  dish  for  a  few  minutes  in  a  hot  oven  or  place  it  under  a  gas 
broiler ;  then  serve  in  the  same  dish,  and  the  sauce  in  a  sauce  bowl. 

Turbot  Gratine. ‚Äî Eemove  the  fillets  from  a  medium-sized 
turbot ;  season  with  salt  and  pepper,  lay  them  in  a  covered  dish 
with  2  sliced  onions,  some  parsley,  cover  with  1  pint  Rhine  wine, 
and  let  them  lie  1  hour.  Thirty  minutes  before  serving  put  the 
fillets  in  a  thickly  buttered  pan,  add  the  wine  and  onions  ;  place  in  a 
hot  oven,  and  cook  till  done.  At  the  same  time  place  a  saucepan 
with  1  ounce  butter  over  the  fire  ;  add  2  tablespoonfuls  fine-cut  raw 
ham,  2  tablespoonfuls  fine-chopped  onion,  cook  5  minutes ;  add  1 
heaping  tablespoonful  flour,  stir  a  few  minutes,  then  add  Y2  pi^tt 
white  broth,  Ys  pint  cream  or  milk,  a  small  bouquet,  boil  6  minutes. 
Then  strain  into  another  saucepan,  add  Yg  can  mushrooms,  1  even 
teaspoonful  salt,  and  cook  slowly  15  minutes  ;  add  a  little  more  but- 
ter and  nutmeg.  When  the  fish  is  done  lay  half  of  the  fillets  in  a 
dish  to  be  served  in,  pour  over  Ys  of  the  sauce,  put  in  the  remaining 
fillets,  pour  over  more  sauce  and  mushrooms,  sprinkle  3  tablespoon- 
fuls grated  bread  crumbs  and  3  tablespoonfuls  grated  Parmesan 
cheese  over  the  top,  place  the  dish  for  a  few  minutes  in  a  hot  oven 
to  bake  light  brown,  then  serve. 

Turbot,  Broiled. ‚Äî Clean,  wash,  and  dry  a  small-sized  turbot, 
remove  head,  tail,  and  fins ;  split  the  fish  and  cut  each  half  into 


160  SEA  FOOD,  Etc. 

pieces  about  3  inches  wide.  Lay  tliem  for  an  hour  or  more  in  olive 
oil,  sliced  onions,  salt,  lemon  juice,  and  parsley.  Twenty  minutes 
before  serving  dry  the  fish  with  a  soft  towel,  and  dip  the  pieces 
separately  into  cold  melted  butter.  Sprinkle  with  bread  crumbs 
and  lay  on  a  hot  broiler ;  broil  over  a  slow  fire  till  browned  on  both 
sides  and  well  done.  Serve  on  a  warm  dish  with  caper  or  anchovy 
sauce,  garnish  with  parsley  and  cut  lemon. 

Turbot  Olace  a  I'Admiral. ‚Äî About  3  hours  before  serving 
soak  a  medium-sized  fish  in  salt  and  water,  to  take  off  the  slime ; 
cleanse  it  thoroughly.  Have  a  deep  roasting  pan  with  a  grating ; 
cover  the  grating  with  some  thin  slices  of  pork ;  dry  and  rub  the 
fish  all  over  with  salt,  lay  it  on  the  grating  of  roasting  pan,  with  the 
pork  under  it;  add  1  bottle  champagne  or  Rhine  wine,  2  onions,  1 
bouquet,  and  some  whole  peppers ;  cover  with  buttered  paper ;  set 
the  pan  in  a  hot  oven,  and  baste  frequently  until  done.  Then  lift 
the  grating  with  the  fish  from  the  pan,  strain  the  gravy,  free  it 
from  fat,  and  reduce  it  by  boiling  to  one  half ;  add  1  tablespoonful 
crawfish  butter,  put  the  fish  back  into  the  pan,  leaving  it  on  the 
grating.  Set  the  fish  in  the  oven,  leaving  the  door  open,  and  pour 
the  sauce,  a  little  at  a  time,  over  it  until  the  fish  is  glazed  all  over. 
Then  put  it  carefully  on  a  warm  dish,  garnish  with  small  mush- 
rooms stewed  in  butter,  serve  with  sauce  a  la  regence.  Other  large 
fish  may  be  dressed  in  the  same  way. 

FRESH  MACKEREL. 

hi  seasofi  from  April  to  November;   co7isidered  best  in  May 
and  June. 

Fresh  Mackerel,  Fried. ‚Äî Trim  and  split  3  good-sized  fresh 
mackerels  through  the  back,  remove  heads,  tails,  and  spines,  rinse 
off  with  cold  water,  and  wipe  dry  with  a  clean  towel ;  mix  1  even 
tablespoonful  salt  and  1  even  teaspoonful  pepper ;  rub,  equally  di- 
vided, on  both  sides  of  the  fish.  Break  an  egg  in  a  soupplate,  beat 
with  a  fork  until  very  light ;   have  ready  1  pint  of  finely  rolled 


SEA  FOOD,  Etc.  161 

soda  crackers,  dust  the  mackerel  with  flour,  dip  first  in  the  beaten 
egg,  then  in  the  cracker  crumbs ;  pat  each  piece  with  a  knife  to 
make  nice  and  smooth,  and  let  lie  on  a  board  20  minutes  to  dry. 
In  the  meantime  cut  4  ounces  of  larding  pork  into  small  pieces, 
place  in  a  frying  pan  large  enough  to  receive  the  fish ;  let  fry  till 
light  brown,  then  put  in  the  fish,  which  turn  as  soon  as  light  brown 
on  one  side  and  fry  the  same  on  the  other  side.  Transfer  the 
mackerels  to  a  hot  dish,  garnish  with  green  parsley  and  1  lemon ; 
cut  lengthwise  into  6  pieces,  and  serve  with  baked  potatoes.  An- 
other way  is  to  season  the  mackerels  with  1  even  tablespoonful  salt, 
roll  in  flour,  and  fry  in  hot  lard  or  half  lard  and  half  butter,  larding 
pork,  or  oil. 

Fresh  Mackerel,  Fried,  a  la  Maitre  d'Hotel.‚Äî Select  2 
fine,  large  fresh  mackerels,  remove  heads  and  tails,  split  through  the 
backs,  score  each  piece  slightly  on  the  skin  side;  rinse  of!  the  fish 
with  cold  water,  and  wipe  dry.  Next  season  with  1  tablespoonful 
seasoning  salt,  and  place  in  a  covered  dish  with  2  sliced  onions,  1 
sprig  of  thyme,  1  bay  leaf,  and  3  sprigs  of  parsley ;  sprinkle  over 
the  Juice  of  1  lemon,  cover  dish,  and  let  stand  30  minutes ;  then 
take  out  the  fish,  dust  with  flour,  dip  into  beaten  egg,  and  cover 
with  bread  crumbs;  let  lie  on  a  board  for  15  minutes.  Twenty 
minutes  before  serving,  place  a  frying  pan  with  1  tablespoonful  lard 
over  the  fire ;  as  soon  as  melted,  put  in  the  fish  and  fry  light  brown 
on  both  sides ;  transfer  the  mackerels  to  a  hot  dish,  and  spread  over 
1  tablespoonful  maitre  d'hotel  butter ;  garnish  with  water  cress  and 
French  fried  potatoes. 

Fresh  Mackerel,  Broiled.‚Äî Split  2  large  fresh  mackerels  down 
the  back,  rinse  in  cold  water,  and  dry  with  a  soft,  clean  towel ; 
sprinkle  a  little  melted  butter  over  each  fish  on  both  sides,  rubbing 
the  butter  all  over  to  prevent  it  from  sticking  to  the  broiler.  Lay 
the  fish  with  the  split  side  downward  on  the  broiler,  and  broil  10  min- 
utes ;  then  turn  and  broil  4  minutes  on  skin  side ;  when  done,  lay 
on  a  hot  dish.     Stir  1  tablespoonful  butter  to  a  cream,  add  1  even 


162  SEA  FOOD,  Etc. 

tablespoonf ul  salt  and  Yo  even  teaspoonful  pepper ;  spread  over  the 
fish,  and  garnish  with  lemon  and  parsley.  Another  way  is  to  split 
the  mackerels  through  the  backs ;  season  with  1  even  tablespoonf  ul 
salt,  Ya  even  teaspoonful  pepper ;  rub  1  teaspoonful  olive  oil  in  and 
outside  over  the  fish ;  make  2  or  3  slight  incisions  on  each  side,  and 
broil  the  same  way  ;  when  done,  lay  on  a  hot  dish,  spread  over  ly^ 
tablespoonful  maitre  d'hotel  butter,  garnish  with  water  cress  and 
lemon,  and  serve  with  small  German  potatoes  fried  brown. 

Fresh  Mackerel,  Baked. ‚Äî Clean  and  wash  3  large  fresh  mack- 
erels and  wipe  dry ;  season  with  1  tablespoonful  salt,  Yo  teaspoon- 
ful pepper,  equally  distributed.  Lay  3  slices  of  larding  pork  in  a 
shallow  baking  pan,  on  top  of  each  slice  a  mackerel,  and  sprinkle 
the  juice  of  1  lemon  over ;  then  lay  1  slice  of  larding  pork  over 
each  fish,  place  the  pan  in  a  medium-hot  oven,  and  bake  about  20 
to  25  minutes.  When  done,  carefully  remove  the  fish,  arrange  on 
a  hot  dish,  decorate  with  parsley  greens,  and  serve  with  maitre 
d'hotel  sauce  or  melted  butter. 

Fresli  Mackerel,  Boiled. ‚Äî Place  3  fresh  mackerels  in  a  fish 
kettle,  cover  with  cold  water ;  add  1  heaping  tablespoonful  salt,  Yd 
cup  white  vinegar,  1  large  onion  cut  into  slices,  a  bouquet,  a  small 
carrot,  and  12  whole  peppers.  Place  the  kettle  over  a  quick  fire, 
and  as  soon  as  it  begins  to  boil  draw  to  side  of  stove,  letting  it  sim- 
mer gently  5  minutes.  Then  remove  and  drain  the  fish,  lay  in  a 
hot  dish,  and  serve  with  mustard  sauce. 

Fresh  Mackerel,  Baked  (to  Serve  Cold).‚Äî Cut  off  the  heads 
and  tails  of  3  fresh  mackerels,  lay  in  a  roasting  pan  ;  sprinkle  over 
1  tablespoonful  salt,  Ys  teaspoonful  pepper,  1  chopped  onion,  3  cloves, 
1  blade  of  mace,  12  whole  peppers,  1  bay  leaf,  a  small  sprig  of 
thyme,  and  2  sprigs  of  parsley ;  cover  with  vinegar,  and  bake  30 
minutes  in  a  hot  oven  ;  then  carefully  remove  to  a  long,  deep  dish  ; 
strain  the  vinegar,  pour  it  over  the  mackerels,  and  serve  when  cold. 

Fresh  Mackerel  a  PAnglaise. ‚Äî Place  a  wide  saucepan  with  2 
quarts  water  over  the  fire,  add  1  heaping  tablespoonful  salt,  1  bay 


SEA  FOOD,  Etc.  163 

leaf,  1  blade  of  mace,  1  sprig  of  thyme,  2  cloves,  8  whole  peppers, 

2  sprigs  of  parsley,  and  1  pint  of  white  Avine.  Select  3  large  well- 
cleaned  fresh  mackerels,  remove  the  heads  and  tails,  and  cut  each 
mackerel  into  2  pieces ;  as  soon  as  the  mixture  boils  put  in  the  fish ; 
when  boiling  again,  draw  the  saucepan  to  side  of  stove,  letting  it 
remain  without  boiling  for  10  minutes ;  then  carefully  remove  the 
fish,  dress  on  a  hot  dish,  and  serve  with  oyster  sauce. 

Fresh  Mackerel  a  I'Allemande.‚Äî Select  3  large  fresh  mack- 
erels, make  a  small  opening  near  the  heads,  draw  out  the  entrails, 
then  wash  and  dry  with  a  clean  soft  towel;  cut  with  a  sharp  knife 

3  small  incisions  on  both  sides  of  each  fish.  Mix  1  even  tablespoon- 
f  ul  salt  with  Ya  even  teaspoonf  ul  pepper,  and  sprinkle  in  equal  por- 
tions over  each  fish.  Butter  a  shallow  baking  pan,  lay  the  mack- 
erels in,  sprinkle  over  1  fine-chopped  onion,  and  pour  over  each  fish  a 
little  melted  butter ;  put  Yg  cupful  Ehine  wine  in  the  bottom  of  pan, 
add  Y4  cupful  mushroom  liquor,  cover  the  fish  with  buttered  paper, 
place  the  pan  in  a  medium-hot  oven,  and  bake  till  done ‚Äî about 
20  to  25  minutes.  In  the  meantime  prepare  the  following  sauce  : 
Put  into  a  small  saucepan  1  tablespoonful  fine-chopped  shallot  or 
white  onion,  Ys  clove  of  bruised  garlic,  2  tablespoonf  uls  fine-chopped 
mushrooms,  Ys  even  teaspoonful  pepper,  1  even  teaspoonful  salt, 
cook  and  stir  6  minutes  without  browning ;  then  add  1  tablespoon- 
ful flour,  stir  for  a  few  minutes,  add  1  pint  of  broth,  cook  slowly  5 
minutes ;  then  draw  the  saucepan  to  side  of  stove,  adding  Ys  table- 
spoonful  fine-chopped  parsley.  Mix  the  yolks  of  2  eggs  with  the 
juice  of  Ys  lemon,  add  slowly  to  the  sauce,  and  as  soon  as  the  fish  is 
done  remove  carefully  to  a  warm  dish,  adding  the  gravy  from  the 
mackerels  to  the  sauce,  mix  well,  add  small  piece  of  butter,  stir  until 
melted ;  then  pour  over  the  fish.     Serve  with  potatoes  a  I'allemande. 

Spanish  Mackerel,  Broiled. ‚Äî {SeasonaUe  from  March  to  the 
latter  part  of  October'].  Procure  2  fresh  Spanish  mackerel.  Make  a 
small  opening  in  the  fish  near  the  head,  draw  out  the  entrails,  wash 
in  cold  water,  and  wipe  dry ;  then  make  an  incision  down  the  back 


164  SEA  FOOD,  Etc. 

to  the  bone.  Mix  1  even  tablespoonful  salt  with  1  even  teaspoonful 
pepper,  rub  this  evenly  all  over  the  fish ;  then  pour  1  tablespoonful 
olive  oil  over  each  fish ;  let  lie  15  minutes ;  then  place  on  a  hot 
broiler  over  a  moderate  fire ;  when  done  on  one  side  turn  over  (8 
minutes'  broiling  on  the  meat  side  and  4  on  the  skin  side  is  usually 
sufficient  to  cook  through).  When  done,  lay  the  fish  on  a  hot  dish, 
put  Ya  tablespoonful  maitre  d'h6tel  butter  inside  of  each,  and  serve 
with  maitre  d'hotel  sauce  or  melted  butter  and  baked  potatoes. 

Spanisli  Mackerel  en  Papillate. ‚Äî Prepare  some  fine  herbs 
as  follows :  Place  a  small  saucepan  with  2  ounces  butter  over  the 
fire,  add.  3  tablespoonfuls  fine-chopped  white  onion  and  1  small 
clove  of  bruised  garlic,  stir,  and  cook  3  minutes  ;  then  add  3  table- 
spoonfuls  fine-chopped  mushrooms,  1  even  teaspoonful  salt,  Yg  even 
teaspoonful  pepper,  cook  and  stir  5  minutes  ;  remove  from  fire  and 
add  Ys  tablespoonful  fine-chopped  parsley.  Select  2  large  Spanish 
mackerels,  wash,  and  wipe  dry ;  make  2  incisions  in  each  and  sea- 
son with  1  even  tablespoonful  salt  and  1  even  teaspoonful  pepper. 
Cut  4  thin  slices  from  a  boiled  smoked  ham ;  spread  2  sheets  of 
white  paper  with  butter,  lay  on  one  side  of  each  sheet  a  long,  thin 
slice  of  boiled  ham ;  over  this  put  1  tablespoonful  of  the  fine 
herbs,  on  top  of  this  the  mackerels,  and  spread  the  remaining  fine 
herbs  equally  divided  over  each  fish;  cover  with  a  slice  of  ham, 
fold  the  paper  around  the  fish,  and  ^tie  at  ends  and  center  with  a 
tape ;  lay  in  a  shallow  tin  pan,  place  in  a  medium-hot  oven,  and 
bake  25  minutes.  To  ascertain  whether  the  fish  is  done  put  a 
larding  needle  through  the  center;  if  it  penetrates  easily,  it  is 
done  ;  if  not,  bake  a  little  longer.  When  done,  carefully  transfer  to 
a  hot  dish,  remove  tapes,  leaving  the  paper  undisturbed  (if  boiled 
ham  is  not  handy,  take  very  thin  slices  of  larding  pork).  In  place 
of  baking,  the  mackerels  can  be  broiled  on  each  side  about  10 
minutes. 


SEA  FOOD,  Etc.  165 


SALT  MACKEEEL. 

'  Salt  Mackerel,  Fried. ‚Äî Clean  and  wash  3  salt  mackerels  sev- 
eral times  in  cold  water,  place  into  a  deep  dish,  cover  with  cold 
water,  and  let  lie  over  night,  changing  the  water  once  during  that 
time ;  30  minutes  before  serving  take  out  the  mackerels,  rinse  in 
fresh  cold  water,  and  wipe  dry  with  a  towel ;  cut  off  the  heads  and 
tails,  cut  each  fish  into  halves,  and  roll  in  flour.  Place  a  frying 
pan  with  1  tablespoonful  lard  or  clarified  drippings  over  the  fire ; 
as  soon  as  hot  put  in  the  mackerels  and  fry  light  brown  on  both 
sides.  Serve  on  a  hot  dish  with  potatoes  boiled  in  their  jackets  and 
onion  sauce  a  I'allemande. 

Salt  Mackerel,  Broiled. ‚Äî Soak  the  fish  for  24  hours  in  cold 
water,  changing  the  water  twice  during  that  time ;  30  minutes  be- 
fore serving  take  the  fish  out,  rinse  in  fresh  cold  water,  and  wipe 
dry ;  rub  a  little  melted  butter  over  each  on  both  sides,  place  with 
the  split  side  downward  on  a  gridiron  over  a  moderate  fire,  broil  6 
minutes,  then  turn  over  and  broil  3  minutes  on  the  skin  side.  Lay 
on  a  warm  dish  and  pour  a  little  melted  butter  over  each  (or  lay 
small  pieces  of  butter  over  the  fish) ;  set  for  a  few  minutes  in  the 
oven,  then  serve.  Mackerel  prepared  in  this  way  is  very  nice  covered 
with  a  butter,  egg,  or  caper  sauce  and  decorated  with  small  German 
potatoes  previously  boiled  in  their  jackets,  then  freed  from  the  skin, 
and  laid  around  the  fish. 

Salt  Mackerel  boiled  with  Potatoes.‚Äî Wash  6  large  potatoes, 
pare  off  a  piece  of  the  skin  Yg  inch  around  each,  place  in  a  wide 
saucepan,  cover  with  cold  water,  and  set  over  the  fire  to  boil.  Wash 
and  clean  3  salt  mackerels,  and  when  the  potatoes  are  nearly  done 
lay  the  mackerels  on  top  of  them  and  boil  slowly  5  minutes.  Then 
carefully  remove  the  mackerels  with  a  skimmer  to  a  warm  dish  and 
put  a  few  pieces  of  butter  on  each ;  when  the  potatoes  are  done 
drain  off  the  water,  return  for  a  few  minutes  to  the  fire,  and  serve 
with  the  fish. 


166  SEA  FOOD,  Etc. 

Salt  Mackerel  with  Cream  Sauce. ‚Äî Wash  2  salt  mackerels 
several  times  in  cold  water,  place  in  a  large,  deep  frying  pan,  cover 
with  cold  water,  put  over  the  fire,  and  let  come  to  a  boil ;  then  drain 
oti  the  water,  return  the  mackerels  to  the  fire,  and  again  cover  with 
fresh  cold  water ;  boil  5  minutes ;  then  carefully  remove  the  fish  with 
a  skimmer,  lay  on  a  warm  dish  until  the  following  sauce  is  prepared  : 
Place  a  small  saucepan  with  1  tablespoonful  butter  over  the  fire,  add 

1  tablespoonful  flour,  stir  and  cook  3  minutes ;  add  IY2  cup  boiling 
milk,  stir  and  cook  a  few  minutes ;  then  draw  saucepan  to  side 
of  stove.  Mix  the  yolk  of  1  egg  with  a  little  cold  milk,  add  grad- 
ually to  sauce,  add  1  tablespoonful  fine-chopped  parsley  and  a  small 
piece  of  butter,  mix  well,  and  pour  it  over  the  mackerels.  Garnish 
with  a  border  of  small  potatoes  previously  boiled  with  their  skins 
and  then  peeled. 

HERRING. 

Fresh  Herring  Farci. ‚Äî Remove  heads  and  tails  from  6  fresh 
herrings,  split  through  the  back,  remove  the  spine  and  bones,  wash 
and  wipe  dry ;  then  spread  out  on  a  clean  napkin,  season  with  1 
even  tablespoonful  salt,  lay  the  milt  over  them,  if  there  be  any  ;  let 
lie  until  the  following  forcemeat  is  prepared  :  Place  a  small  saucepan 
with  1  tablespoonful  butter  over  the  fire,  add  2  tablespoonfuls  fine- 
chopped  onion,  cook  3  minutes ;  then  add  2  tablespoonfuls  fine- 
chopped  mushrooms,  cook  for  a  few  minutes ;  add  1  tablespoonful 
flour,  stir  2  minutes ;  then  add  1  cup  of  white  broth,  4  tablespoon- 
fuls white  wine,  stir  and  cook  5  minutes ;  remove  from  fire,  add  1 
teaspoonful  fine-chopped  parsley,  Y2  ¬©ven  teaspoonful  pepper,  1  even 
teaspoonful  salt ;  when  cold,  mix  it  with  Yo  pound  of  sausage  meat, 

2  tablespoonfuls  grated  bread  crumbs,  and  1  egg.  Spread  over  the 
inside  of  each  fish  1  tablespoonful  of  this,  and  lay  each  one  together 
again  into  its  natural  form.  Spread  a  thin  layer  of  the  same  force- 
meat over  the  top  of  each.  Mix  in  a  soupplate  the  yolks  of  3  eggs 
with  1  ounce  melted  butter  and  Ys  even  teaspoonful  salt ;  dip  the 
fish  into  the  egg,  then  roll  in  fresh  grated  bread  crumbs,  lay  in  a 


SEA  FOOD,  Etc.  107 

shallow  tin  pan,  and  bake  in  a  hot  oven  to  a  delicate  brown  about 
20  minutes.  Serve  with  tomato  sauce.  Fresh  mackerel  may  be  pre- 
pared in  the  same  way. 

Fresh  Herring,  Fried. ‚Äî Clean,  wash,  and  dry  the  fish,  cut 
off  the  fins  and  tails,  sprinkle  with  salt,  pepper,  and  lemon  juice, 
and  set  aside  for  1  hour.  Shortly  before  serving,  wipe  dry  and 
dredge  with  flour.  Dip  first  into  beaten  egg,  then  in  fine  bread 
crumbs  or  powdered  crackers,  and  fry  on  both  sides  light  brown  in 
hot  lard  or  drippings.  Fry  the  roes  in  the  same  way.  Serve  with 
anchovy  or  tomato  sauce,  and  garnish  with  fried  parsley.  Or  fill 
herrings  with  bread  filling,  sew  them  up,  dip  into  beaten  egg  and 
fine  bread  crumbs,  and  then  fry  in  lard  or  pork.  Another  way  is  to 
season  the  fish  with  salt,  roll  in  flour,  and  fry  in  larding  pork  or 
lard. 

Salt  Herring,  Fried. ‚Äî Remove  the  skins  and  bones  of  several 
well-soaked  herrings,  cut  off  heads  and  tails,  and  cut  each  one  into 
two  pieces.  Dry  and  dredge  with  flour,  dip  into  beaten  egg,  then 
into  fine  bread  crumbs,  and  fry  in  hot  lard  nice  and  brown.  Or 
dip  the  pieces  into  a  batter  and  then  fry. 

Salt  Herring,  Broiled.  ‚Äî  Soak  the  herrings  for  24  hours, 
changing  the  water  3  times  during  that  time.  Then  take  out,  wipe 
very  dry,  and  wrap  each  in  a  thickly  buttered  paper.  Lay  on  a  hot 
broiler  and  broil  5  minutes  on  each  side.  In  serving,  remove  paper, 
lay  on  a  warm  dish,  pour  some  melted  butter  over,  or  lay  a  piece  of 
butter  on  each.  Fresh  herring  and  mackerel  may  be  dressed  in  the 
same  way. 

Herring  Salad. ‚Äî See  my  book  Desserts  and  Salads,  recipe  899. 

Herring  with  Mayonnaise. ‚Äî Eub  the  yolks  of  2  hard-boiled 
eggs  fine,  mix  by  degrees  with  %  cupful  oil,  and  stir  until  white 
and  ereamlike  ;  add  1  tablespoonful  vinegar,  Yg  cup  thick,  sour 
cream,  Yg  teaspoonful  salt,  and  1  of  sugar.  Take  3  herrings  which 
have  previously  been  soaked  24  hours  in  cold  water ;  remove  the 


168  SEA  FOOD,  Etc. 

skin  and  bones,  cut  each  fish  slantingly  into  3  pieces,  and  put  on  a 
round  dish ;  pour  the  above  mayonnaise  over,  garnish  with  green 
lettuce  and  hard-boiled  eggs ;  cut  into  quarters  and  serve.  In  place 
of  the  above  sauce  a  remolade  sauce  may  be  poured  over  the  fish. 

Herring  aux  Fines  Herlbes. ‚Äî Soak  6  salted  herrings  for  24 
hours  in  cold  water,  changing  the  water  3  times  during  that  period ; 
then  take  out,  remove  heads,  skins,  and  tails ;  split  in  two,  and  lay 
for  12  hours  in  sour  milk.  After  that  rinse  in  cold  water,  wipe  dry, 
and  lay  in  a  stone  jar.  Eub  the  herring  milt  fine  and  mix  with  3 
fine-minced  onions  and  IY3  pint  wine  vinegar ;  pour  this  over  the 
fish,  cover  the  jar  with  paper,  and  let  stand  for  3  days.  In  serving, 
cut  each  half  of  the  herring  into  3  pieces  slantingly,  and  lay  on  an 
oval  dish ;  then  prepare  the  following  sauce :  Fry  6  fine-chopped 
button  mushrooms  and  2  fine-chopped  white  onions  in  2  ounces 
butter  5  minutes;  mix  with  1  gill  of  salad  oil,  add  some  of  the 
pickle  in  which  the  herrings  laid,  and  pour  it  over  the  fish.  Garnish 
with  cut  lemon  and  mixed  pickles. 

Herring  Rolls. ‚Äî Soak  several  herrings  in  cold  water  for  24 
hours,  changing  the  water  twice  ;  then  take  out,  split  through  the 
back,  remove  all  the  bones,  heads,  and  tails,  cut  each  herring  into 
halves,  and  lay  for  12  hours  in  sour  milk  or  water.  After  that  take 
out,  wipe  dry,  and  spread  on  a  board.  For  6  herrings  mix  3  fine- 
minced  onions,  2  tablespoonfuls  English-made  mustard,  or  4  table- 
spoonfuls  French  mustard ;  spread  some  of  this  mixture  over  the 
inside  of  each  fish,  and  roll  up  ;  fasten  with  a  wooden  toothpick  or 
bind  with  a  string.  Lay  the  rolls  in  a  stone  jar  with  1  lemon  cut 
into  slices  and  freed  from  the  pits,  2  large  onions  cut  into  slices,  3 
bay  leaves,  1  tablespoonf ul  whole  peppers,  and  some  capers ;  stir  the 
milt  of  the  herring  fine,  mix  with  1  quart  vinegar,  and  pour  over 
the  herrings ;  tie  the  jar  up  with  paper  and  set  in  a  cool  place. 
After  4  days  they  are  ready  to  be  eaten. 

Herring  MariniSre. ‚Äî Soak  10  herrings  for  24  hours  in  fresh 
water,  changing  the  water  2  or  3  times  during  that  time;  then 


SEA  FOOD,  Etc.  iqq 

take  out,  clean  and  wash,  lay  in  a  stone  jar,  with  3  large  sliced 
onions,  4  bay  leaves,  6  cloves,  and  1  tablespoonf ul  whole  peppers ; 
stir  the  milt  to  a  cream,  mix  with  Yg  pint  vinegar,  add  it  to  the 
herrings ;  add  sufficient  vinegar  to  entirely  cover  the  fish  ;  close  the 
jar,  and  set  in  a  cool  place.  After  4  days  they  are  ready  for  use. 
Or  remove  the  skin  and  bones  of  the  herrings,  split  the  herrings  in 
two,  cut  off  heads  and  tails,  roll  up  each  half  of  fish,  and  fasten 
with  a  little  pointed  piece  of  wood  or  toothpick ;  lay  them  with 
sliced  onions  and  spice  in  a  stone  jar,  add  the  milt  stirred  to  a 
cream,  and  boil  sufficient  vinegar  to  cover  the  herrings.  Let  it  cool 
off,  and  pour  over  the  fish ;  cover  and  set  away  for  4  days,  when 
they  can  be  eaten.  The  itnported  herring  from  Holland  is  to  le 
used  for  all  of  these  recipes. 

Herring  a  PItalienne. ‚Äî Lay  3  Holland  herrings  for  6  hours 
in  cold  water,  changing  the  water  twice ;  then  make  with  a  sharp 
knife  2  incisions  on  sides  of  each,  from  the  head  down  to  the  tail, 
leaving  on  each  side  a  margin  of  1  inch,  pull  off  the  skin,  pare  the 
head  and  tail,  remove  the  entrails,  and  lay  the  fish  for  2  hours  in 
milk  with  a  piece  of  ice.  Shortly  before  serving  cut  each  herring 
slantingly  into  4  pieces  and  lay  in  their  original  form  on  a  glass 
dish,  then  chop  fine  2  tablespoonfuls  capers ;  dip  1  sprig  of  parsley 
into  boiling  water,  remove  instantly,  and  chop  fine ;  add  1  table- 
spoonful  of  the  chopped  parsley  to  the  capers,  add  Yg  even  teaspoon- 
ful  white  .pepper,  4  tablespoonfuls  olive  oil,  3  tablespoonfuls  herb 
vinegar,  and  1  tablespoonful  tarragon  vinegar  (if  not  handy  take 
white  vinegar)  ;  mix  all  together,  and  pour  over  the  herrings ; 
sprinkle  over  the  chopped  yolks  of  2  hard-boiled  eggs,  and  garnish 
with  18  olives,  prepared  as  follows  :  Lay  the  salted  olives  for  several 
hours  in  cold  water,  changing  the  water  twice  ;  then  peel  from  the 
stone,  press  together  so  as  to  give  their  original  form  again,  lay  be- 
tween and  around  the  herrings,  and  serve. 


170  SEA  FOOD,  Etc. 

FRESH  CODFISH. 
Fillets  of  Codfish  au  Gratin. ‚Äî Remove  the  skin  and  bono 
from  3  thin  slices  of  fresh  codfish,  cut  each  slice  into  2  pieces ;  sea- 
son with  1  even  tablespoonful  salt,  Yg  teaspoonful  pepper,  and 
sprinkle  over  the  juice  of  1  lemon;  lay  the  fillets  in  a  thickly  but- 
tered pan,  add  Yg  cupful  white  wine,  and  cover  with  buttered  paper; 
20  minutes  before  serving  place  in  a  hot  oven  to  bake,  basting  fre- 
quently. At  the  same  time  melt  1  tablespoonful  butter  in  a  sauce- 
pan, add  1  heaping  tablespoonful  flour,  stir  for  a  few  minutes ;  then 
add  1  cupful  white  broth,  Y2  cup  mushroom  liquor,  Y2  teaspoonful 
salt  and  pepper,  cook  5  minutes ;  mix  the  yolks  of  2  eggs  with  3 
tablespoonfuls  cream,  add  it  slowly  to  the  sauce  ;  remove  from  fire, 
and  add  1  tablespoonful  lemon  juice ;  set  saucepan  in  a  cool  place. 
As  soon  as  the  fish  is  done  cover  each  fillet  with  the  sauce,  sprinkle 
over  3  tablespoonfuls  grated  cheese,  and  3  tablespoonfuls  grated 
bread  crumbs ;  return  the  pan  for  a  few  minutes  to  the  hot  oven,  to 
bake  light  brown.  Arrange  the  fish  nicely  on  a  warm  dish,  garnish 
with  fried  tomatoes,  or  serve  with  tomato  sauce. 

CODFISH. 

In  season  the  year  round. 
Codflsli  boiled  Whole. ‚Äî Place  a  saucepan  with  1  gallon 
water  over  the  fire ;  as  soon  as  it  boils,  add  4  tablespoonfuls  salt,  3 
fine-cut  onions,  1  carrot,  a  bunch  of  parsley  tied  together  with  2 
sprigs  of  thyme,  2  bay  leaves,  and  3  cloves ;  add  12  whole  peppers 
and  Y2  pi^^t  white  vinegar,  boil  30  minutes ;  then  strain  the  stock 
through  a  napkin,  and  set  aside.  Clean  and  wash  a  6-pound  cod- 
fish, place  it  on  a  drainer  in  a  fish  kettle,  pour  over  the  cold  stock, 
set  it  over  a  quick  fire ;  as  soon  as  it  commences  to  boil  draw  the 
kettle  to  side  of  stove  and  let  simmer  till  the  fish  is  done.  When 
ready  to  serve  lift  the  fish  out  of  kettle  and  slide  it  on  to  a  warm 
dish ;  serve  with  boiled  potatoes  and  sauce  Hollandaise  or  oyster 
sauce ;  garnish  with  parsley. 


SEA  FOOD,  Etc.  171 

Codfish,  Boiled. ‚Äî Place  a  fish  kettle  with  3  quarts  water  over 
the  fire,  add  Yg  cup  of  white  vinegar,  3  tablespoonf  uls  salt ;  as  soon 
as  it  begins  to  boil,  add  Yg  carrot  and  1  onion  cut  into  slices,  a  bou- 
quet, and  8  whole  peppers ;  boil  10  minutes.  Procure  a  4-pound 
piece  of  fresh  codfish,  wash  and  place  it  in  the  kettle ;  when  boil- 
ing again,  draw  the  kettle  to  side  of  stove  and  let  simmer  30 
minutes,  or  until  done.  When  ready  to  serve,  slide  the  fish  on  to  a 
warm  dish,  and  serve  with  egg,  mustard,  or  shrimp  sauce  and  boiled 
potatoes ;  garnish  with  parsley. 

Codfish,  Baked. ‚Äî Procure  a  small-sized  fresh  codfish ;  clean, 
wash,  and  season  it  with  salt  and  pepper ;  place  in  a  covered  dish 
or  kettle,  add  2  sliced  onions,  Ys  bunch  parsley,  the  juice  of  1 
lemon,  2  sprigs  of  thyme,  and  1  clove  of  garlic ;  cover  and  let  it  lay 
2  hours.  In  the  meantime  melt  2  ounces  of  butter  in  a  saucepan, 
add  1  fine-chopped  onion ;  cook  5  minutes ;  then  add  2  ounces  of 
bread,  previously  soaked  and  pressed  out  in  cold  water,  stir  until 
the  bread  has  formed  into  a  smooth  paste ;  remove  from  fire,  and 
when  cold  mix  with  1  pound  fine-chopped  fresh  codfish ;  add  1  tea- 
spoonful  seasoning  salt,  1  even  teaspoonful  thyme,  and  1  egg,  and 
mix  all  together ;  1  hour  before  serving  wipe  the  fisli  dry,  fill  with 
the  forcemeat,  and  sew  up.  Lay  4  thin  slices  of  larding  pork  in  the 
bottom  of  a  baking  pan,  the  fish  over  it,  3  thin  slices  of  larding 
pork  on  top,  and  pour  a  little  melted  butter  over ;  place  the  fish  in 
a  hot  oven,  and  bake  till  done,  basting  it  occasionally  with  its  own 
gravy  (if  it  should  get  too  brown,  cover  with  a  buttered  paper). 
When  done,  remove  the  fish  carefully  to  a  warm  dish,  and  serve 
with  mustard  or  Hollandaise  sauce. 

Codfish,  Fried. ‚Äî Cut  3Y2  pounds  fresh  codfish  into  slices,  re- 
move the  skin  and  center  bone,  cut  each  slice  in  two  ;  sprinkle  IY2 
even  tablespoonful  seasoning  salt  over  the  slices,  equally  distributed 
on  both  sides,  and  dust  them  lightly  with  flour.  Place  6  soda 
crackers  on  a  pastry  board,  roll  fine  with  a  rolling  pin,  sift  the 
crumbs  through  a  sieve,  roll  those  which  stay  back  in  the  sieve 
13 


172  SEA  FOOD,  Etc. 

again.  Beat  1  egg  in  a  soupplate  until  liglit ;  take  each  piece  of 
fish  separately  up  on  a  fork  and  dip  into  the  beaten  egg,  then  roll 
in  the  cracker  crumbs.  Lay  the  slices  thus  prepared  on  a  clean 
board  or  dish ;  place  a  frying  pan  with  6  ounces  fine-cut  larding 
pork  over  the  fire,  and  fry  till  it  begins  to  turn  a  light-brown  color ; 
pour  part  of  the  pork  in  a  small  saucepan,  then  place  as  many  of 
the  fish  pieces  in  the  pan  as  will  conveniently  go  in,  and  fry  to  a 
delicate  brown  on  both  sides  (care  must  be  taken  not  to  have  the 
fire  too  strong ;  the  pork  in  saucepan  should  be  added  as  required 
during  the  frying).  Serve  the  fish  on  a  warm  dish,  with  either 
mustard  or  Tartar  sauce,  or  butter.  Baked  or  boiled  potatoes  are 
generally  served  with  this. 

Fresh  Codfish  a  rAllemande. ‚Äî Eemove  the  skin  and  bone 
from  3  slices  of  fresh  codfish  ;  cut  each  slice  in  2  pieces,  wash,  and 
wipe  dry ;  season  with  1  tablespoonful  seasoning  salt ;  lay  in  a  cov- 
ered dish  with  1  large  onion  cut  into  slices,  the  juice  of  1  lemon,  1 
sprig  of  thyme,  Yg  bunch  parsley ;  cover  the  dish  and  let  stand  1 
hour.  In  the  meantime  take  a  small  loaf  of  stale  baker's  bread 
and  grate  it  on  a  grater ;  put  1  egg  in  a  soupplate,  and  beat  it  till 
light.  Twenty  minutes  before  serving,  wipe  the  fish  pieces  dry  and 
dust  lightly  with  flour,  dip  each  piece  separately  into  the  beaten 
egg,  then  roll  in  the  bread  crumbs ;  lay  on  a  clean  board  and  pat 
smooth  with  a  knife.  Place  a  frying  pan  with  1  ounce  pure  lard 
and  1  ounce  butter  over  the  fire ;  as  soon  as  hot  put  in  as  many  of 
the  fish  pieces  as  will  conveniently  lie  in  the  pan  ;  fry  to  a  delicate 
brown  on  both  sides  over  a  moderate  fire  (adding  more  lard  and 
butter  if  necessary).  Pick  over  1  pint  of  corn  salad,  wash  it  in 
cold  water,  and  drain  on  a  sieve;  mix  1  tablespoonful  salad  oil  with 
2  tablespoonfuls  vinegar  and  Yi  teaspoonful  seasoning  salt,  put 
the  corn  salad  in  a  dish,  pour  over  the  dressing,  and  mix  with  2 
forks.  AVhen  ready  to  serve,  arrange  the  fish  nicely  on  a  warm  dish, 
put  the  salad  in  a  circle  around  it,  and  serve  with  Tartar  sauce  a 
I'allemande.     Peel  1  quart  small  German  potatoes,  boil  them  in  1 


SEA  FOOD,  Etc.-  I73 

quart  of  water,  with  1  tablespoonf ul  salt,  8  minutes ;  then  drain, 
and  dry  for  a  few  minutes  over  the  fire.  Melt  IY2  ounce  butter  in 
a  large  frying  pan,  put  in  the  potatoes,  and  fry  till  done.  If  the  pan 
is  not  large  enough  to  hold  all,  fry  part  of  them,  and  when  done 
fry  the  remainder,  using  a  little  more  butter  if  necessary.  Serve 
the  potatoes  in  a  covered  dish  and  sprinkle  1  teaspoonful  chopped 
parsley  over.  In  place  of  butter,  drippings  or  lard  may  be  used, 
but  will  not  be  so  nice. 

In  place  of  corn  salad,  lettuce,  chicory,  or  water  cress  may  be 
used,  or  the  fish  may  be  served  with  potato  salad.  For  Potato 
Salad,  see  my  book  Desserts  and  .Salads,  recipe  892. 

Boiled  Codfish  Tongue  with  Black  Butter.‚Äî Place  a  sauce- 
pan with  3  pints  water  over  the  fire ;  when  it  begins  to  boil  add  1 
fine-cut  onion,  1  small-cut  carrot,  a  bouquet,  8  whole  peppers,  1  gill 
of  vinegar,  1  heaping  tablespoonful  salt,  boil  10  minutes  ;  then  add 
13  well-washed  fresh  codfish  tongues,  boil  slowly  10  minutes ;  then 
draw  the  saucepan  to  side  of  stove,  let  stand  without  boiling  5  min- 
utes ;  then  remove,  drain,  and  wipe  them  dry,  arrange  the  tongues 
on  a  hot  dish,  and  sprinkle  over  1  teaspoonful  fine-chopped  parsley. 
Boil  1  gill  of  vinegar  with  a  little  salt,  4  crushed  peppers,  Y4  bay 
leaf,  5  minutes,  then  strain.  Melt  4  ounces  butter  in  a  small  sauce- 
pan, let  it  get  dark  brown,  remove  the  scum,  add  the  vinegar,  and 
pour  it  over  the  tongue. 

Boiled  Codfish  Tongue  with  Pepper  Sauce.‚Äî Boil  1  dozen 
tongues  as  in  foregoing  recipe  ;  place  a  saucepan  with  1  ounce  butter, 
1  tablespoonful  fine-chopped  onion,  and  Yg  fine-chopped  green  pep- 
per over  the  fire,  cook  5  minutes  ;  add  Ys  cupful  fine-chopped  mush- 
rooms, 1  teaspoonful  salt,  Ys  teaspoonful  pepper,  cook  5  minutes 
longer ;  then  add  1  cupful  fine-cut  tomatoes,  Ys  teaspoonful  sugar, 
boil  slowly  10  minutes.  Arrange  the  tongue  on  a  hot  dish,  pour 
the  sauce  over,  garnish  the  dish  with  6  rice  timbales,  and  serve. 

Codfish  Tongue,  Fried. ‚Äî Dust  12  cold  boiled  codfish  tongues 
with  flour,  dip  them  into  beaten  egg,  then  roll  in  fine  bread  crumbs, 


174  SEA  FOOD,  Etc. 

and  fry  to  a  fine  color  in  hot  fat ;  dress  them  on  a  warm  dish,  spread 
2  ounces  maitre  d'hotel  butter  over,  and  garnish  with  6  slices  of 
buttered  toast  or  croutons. 

Codfish  Tongue  a  rAllemande.‚Äî Boil  12  fresh  codfish 
tongues  as  in  preceding  recipe.  Arrange  them  on  a  warm  dish, 
pour  1  pint  of  hot  sauce  a  I'allemande  over,  and  lay  a  border  of 
cooked  nudles  around  the  dish ;  or  serve  with  the  boiled  potatoes. 
Boiled  codfish  tongues  may  be  served  with  following  sauces : 
Hollandaise,  horseradish,  gourmet,  oyster,  tomato,  egg,  Kobert, 
caper,  and  mustard. 

SALT  CODFISH. 

Salt  Codfish  Croquettes. ‚Äî Soak  1  pound  salt  codfish  in  cold 
water  for  several  hours,  then  pick  it  into  small  pieces,  place  in  a 
saucepan  over  the  fire,  cover  with  cold  water ;  when  nearly  boiling, 
pour  the  fish  into  a  colander,  rinse  off  with  cold  water  ;  return  it  in 
a  saucepan  to  the  fire,  cover  with  cold  water ;  when  nearly  boiling, 
remove  and  drain  the  fish  on  a  sieve.  Place  a  saucepan  with  1 
ounce  butter  and  1  fine-chopped  onion  over  the  fire,  cook  5  min- 
utes ;  add  1  tablespoonf ul  flour,  stir  3  minutes  ;  then  add  '/o  cupful 
milk,  Yi  teaspoonful  white  pepper,  Yg  teaspoonful  English  mustard, 
cook  3  minutes  ;  add  the  codfish,  1  teaspoonful  fine-chopped  parsley, 
1  well-beaten  egg,  and  1  yolk  ;  stir  for  a  few  minutes  over  the  fire ; 
then  spread  the  mixture  in  a  tin  pan,  and  set  aside  to  cool.  Shortly 
before  serving  form  the  mixture  into  small  croquettes,  dip  them  into 
beaten  egg,  roll  in  bread  crumbs,  and  fry  in  hot  fat  to  a  delicate 
brown ;  serve  with  caper  sauce  or  tomato  sauce  a  I'allemande. 

Salt  Codfish  a  I'Espagnole.‚Äî Soak  lYs  pound  salt  codfish 
for  several  hours  in  cold  water,  changing  the  water  twice.  One  hour 
before  serving  pick  the  fish  into  small  pieces,  place  it  in  a  sauce- 
pan over  the  fire,  cover  with  cold  water ;  when  nearly  boiling,  pour 
the  codfish  into  a  sieve  and  rinse  off  with  cold  water ;  return  it  in 
saucepan  to  the  fire,  cover  with  fresh  cold  water ;  when  nearly  boil- 


SEA  FOOD.  Etc.  175 

ing,  remove  and  drain  again.  In  the  meantime  place  a  saucepan 
with  2  ounces  butter  or  4  tablespoonfuls  oil  over  the  fire,  add  Yg 
cupful  fine-chopped  onion,  1  fine-chopped  green  pepper,  1  bruised 
clove  of  garlic ;  cook  and.  stir  5  minutes ;  add  1  cupful  canned 
tomatoes  (or  2  fresh  tomatoes),  1  pint  boiling  water,  1  teaspoonful 
beef  extract ;  peel  6  large  potatoes,  cut  them  into  round  balls  with 
a  vegetable  cutter,  wash  in  cold  water,  and  add  to  the  saucepan 
with  1  teaspoonful  salt ;  cook  till  the  potatoes  are  done ;  then  add 
the  fish,  let  it  get  boiling  hot ;  serve  on  a  hot  dish,  and  sprinkle  1 
tablespoonf  ul  fine-chopped  parsley  over. 

Codfish  a  Pltalienne. ‚Äî Soak  1  pound  of  salt  codfish  3  hours 
in  cold  water,  changing  the  water  twice  during  that  time;  then 
pick  it  into  fine  pieces,  place  it  in  a  saucepan  over  the  fire,  cover 
with  cold  water,  let  it  heat  gradually  until  nearly  boiling ;  pour  the 
fish  into  a  sieve,  and  rinse  off  with  cold  water ;  return  the  fish  to 
saucepan,  cover  with  fresh  cold  water,  place  over  the  fire  until 
nearly  boiling,  then  remove  and  drain  in  a  sieve.  At  the  same  time 
peel  6  medium-sized  potatoes,  wash  and  put  them  with  1  pint  cold 
water  and  1  teaspoonful  salt  over  the  fire ;  boil  till  tender ;.  drain 
and  mash  fine  with  Yg  tablespoonful  butter.  Melt  in  a  small  sauce- 
pan 1  ounce  butter  or  3  tablespoonfuls  of  oil,  add  Y2  cupful  fine- 
chopped  onion,  cook  5  minutes ;  add  1  tablespoonful  flour,  cook  and 
stir  2  minutes ;  add  Ys  pii^t  of  milk,  and  cook  5  minutes ;  season 
with  1  even  teaspoonful  salt,  Ys  even  teaspoonful  pepper,  add  the 
codfish,  the  niashed  potatoes,  the  yolks  of  2  eggs,  and  the  whites 
beaten  to  a  stiff  froth.  Put  this  preparation  into  a  pudding  dish, 
smooth  the  top  with  a  knife,  and  sprinkle  3  tablespoonfuls  grated 
cheese  over ;  place  in  a  hot  oven,  and  bake  light  brown.  Serve  with 
stewed  tomatoes. 

Salt  Codfish  a  la  Rosano. ‚Äî Soak  1  pound  salt  codfish  for 
several  hours  in  cold  water,  changing  the  water  twice  during  that 
time.  One  hour  before  serving,  peel  and  wash  6  medium-sized 
potatoes,  place  them  with  1  teaspoonful  salt  and  1  pint  cold  water 


176  SEA  FOOD,  Etc. 

over  the  fire  to  boil.  In  the  meantime  pick  the  codfish  into  small 
pieces,  place  it  in  a  saucepan  over  the  fire,  cover  with  cold  water, 
let  it  come  to  a  boiling  point;  then  drain  off  the  water,  rinse 
with  cold  water,  return  the  fish  to  the  saucepan,  cover  with  cold 
water,  heat  till  nearly  boiling ;  pour  the  fish  in  a  sieve  to  drain. 
Melt  1  ounce  butter  in  a  saucepan,  add  1  fine-chopped  onion,  and 
cook  5  minutes ;  then  add  1  tablespoonful  flour,  stir  and  cook  2 
minutes  ;  add  Yg  cup  of  milk,  1  even  teaspoouful  seasoning  salt,  2 
tablespoonf uls  chopped  mushrooms,  cook  5  minutes ;  then  add  the 
fish.  As  soon  as  the  potatoes  are  done,  drain  off  the  water  and 
mash  them  fine;  add  Yg  tablespoonful  butter  and  the  codfish,  mix 
all  well  together ;  add  the  yolks  of  2  eggs  and  1  whole  egg,  form 
this  into  balls  the  size  of  an  egg  and  then  shape  into  pyramids,  set 
in  a  pan,  brush  over  with  beaten  egg,  and  bake  light  brown  in  a 
hot  oven.     Serve  with  tomato  sauce. 

Codfish  a  la  Creme. ‚Äî Pick  IY2  pound  of  well-soaked  salt  cod- 
fish into  small  pieces,  put  it  in  a  saucepan  over  the  fire,  cover  with 
cold  water,  let  it  heat  gradually  to  nearly  boiling,  then  drain  ;  cover 
again  with  fresh  cold  water  and  return  to  the  fire ;  when  about  to 
boil,  remove  instantly,  and  pour  the  fish  into  a  sieve.  Alelt  1  ounce 
butter  in  a  saucepan,  add  1  small  tablespoonful  flour,  stir  and  cook 
2  minutes ;  add  1  cup  of  milk,  cook  3  minutes.  Mix  the  yolks  of 
2  eggs  with  '%  cupful  cream,  add  to  the  sauce ;  add  1  ounce  but- 
ter in  small  pieces,  and,  last,  the  fish ;  stir  over  the  fire  till  nearly 
boiling,  then  remove.  At  the  same  time  have  1  quart  peeled  pota- 
toes boiled  in  1  quart  water,  with  1  tablespoonful  salt ;  when  done, 
drain,  mash,  and  mix  them  with  1  ounce  butter  ;  put  them  into 
small  buttered  timbale  forms,  and  keep  them  warm.  When  ready  to 
serve,  dress  the  fish  on  a  hot  dish,  unmold  the  potato  timbales, 
set  them  in  a  circle  around  the  dish,  and  sprinkle  a  little  fine- 
chopped  parsley  over  all ;  then  serve.  Another  way  is  to  dress 
the  dish  alternately  with  potatoes  Tortonia,  and  stuffed  and  baked 
tomatoes. 


SEA  FOOD,  Etc.  177 

Codfish  a  PAUemande. ‚Äî Soak  IY2  pound  salt  codfish  for  several 
hours  in  cold  water ;  1  hour  before  serving,  pick  it  into  small  pieces ; 
place  the  codfish  in  a  saucepan,  cover  with  cold  water ;  set  over  a 
slow  fire,  and  let  heat  gradually  till  nearly  boiling ;  drain  oS  the 
water ;  cover  with  fresh  cold  water,  return  to  the  fire,  and  let  come 
to  a  boil ;  then  drain  the  fish  in  a  sieve,  and  rinse  off  with  cold 
water.  Place  a  saucepan  with  1  ounce  butter  over  the  fire,  add  1 
tablespoonf ul  flour,  stir  for  a  few  minutes ;  add  1  pint  white  broth 
(or  1  pint  boiling  water),  1  teaspoonf  ul  beef  extract,  and  boil  5  min- 
utes. Mix  the  yolks  of  2  eggs,  with  the  juice  of  Yg  lemon,  add  a 
little  of  the  sauce  first  to  the  eggs,  then  gradually  the  eggs  to  the 
sauce ;  add  the  fish,  2  tablespoonfuls  cream,  and  Y4  teaspoonful 
pepper  ;  stir  over  the  fire  till  boiling  hot.  At  the  same  time  clean 
2  large  carrots  and  4  large  potatoes,  cut  them  with  a  vegetable 
cutter  into  small  round  balls ;  place  the  carrot  balls  in  a  saucepan 
over  the  fire ;  add  1  teaspoonful  sugar,  cover  with  boiling  water, 
and  cook  till  tender ;  then  drain,  add  a  small  piece  of  butter,  and 
toss  them  for  2  minutes  over  the  fire.  Boil  the  potato  balls  in  1 
pint  water  and  1  teaspoonful  salt ;  when  done,  drain  off  the  water 
and  set  in  a  warm  place.  Kub  the  yolks  of  3  hard-boiled  eggs  fine, 
add  1  teaspoonful  butter,  a  sprinkle  of  salt  and  nutmeg,  also  1  raw 
yolk,  and  a  little  flour ;  form  this  into  12  small  balls  like  marbles, 
roll  in  flour,  and  boil  5  minutes  in  salted  water ;  remove  the  egg 
balls  with  a  skimmer.  Arrange  the  codfish  on  a  warm  dish,  lay  the 
egg  balls,  the  potato  balls,  and  the  carrot  balls  in  clusters  around 
the  dish,  chop  the  whites  of  the  eggs  fine,  and  sprinkle  them  with  1 
tablespoonful  fine-chopped  parsley  over  the  dish,  then  serve. 

Codfish  a  I'Americaine. ‚Äî Soak  IY2  pound  salt  codfish  over 
night  in  cold  water,  changing  the  water  several  times ;  then  pick 
into  small  pieces,  place  in  a  saucepan  over  the  fire,  cover  with  cold 
water,  let  heat  gradually ;  when  nearly  boiling  drain  off  the  water ; 
return  the  codfish  to  the  fire,  with  fresh  cold  water,  again  let  heat 
gradually  till  just  about  to  boil,  then  drain  the  fish  in  a  sieve.    Melt 


178  SEA  FOOD,  Etc. 

1  tablespoonful  butter  in  a  saucepan,  add  1  tablespoonful  flour,  stir 
and  cook  2  minutes ;  add  1  pint  milk,  boil  three  minutes ;  then  add 
the  codfish,  stir  until  it  boils.  Pour  the  codfish  on  to  a  warm  dish, 
and  serve  with  mashed  potatoes.  Another  way  is  to  put  the  pre- 
pared codfish  in  a  saucepan  over  the  fire,  cover  with  1  pint  milk, 
mix  1  tablespoonful  flour  with  1  tablespoonful  butter,  add  it  to  the 
fish  ;  stir  until  just  about  to  boil,  then  serve.  If  any  of  the  fish  is 
left,  it  may  be  mixed  with  mashed  potatoes  and  1  egg,  then  formed 
into  cakes  and  fried  in  fat. 

Salt  Codfish,  Boiled. ‚Äî Soak  3  pounds  salt  codfish  for  several 
hours  in  cold  water,  changing  the  water  twice ;  2  hours  before  serv- 
ing lay  the  codfish  into  a  saucepan,  cover  with  cold  water,  and  set 
on  side  of  stove  to  heat  the  fish  gradually  (care  must  be  taken  not 
to  let  it  boil).  When  nearly  boiling  drain  off  the  water,  return  to 
the  saucepan  with  fresh  cold  water,  and  again  let  it  come  nearly  to 
a  boil ;  repeat  this  once  more,  then  dress  on  a  warm  dish,  and  serve 
with  butter  sauce,  Worcestershire  sauce,  and  English  mixed  mus- 
tard. 

Codfish  Cakes. ‚Äî Soak  1  pound  of  codfish  in  cold  water  for  sev- 
eral hours,  then  place  it  in  a  saucepan  over  the  fire,  cover  with  cold 
water ;  as  soon  as  it  begins  to  boil  drain  off  the  water,  cover  again 
with  cold  water,  and  let  it  come  to  a  boiling  point ;  then  drain  off 
all  the  water,  remove  the  bones,  chop  the  fish  fine,  and  mix  it  with 
an  equal  portion  of  mashed  potatoes ;  add  Vg  tablespoonful  butter 
and  1  egg ;  form  the  mixture  into  round  balls  the  size  of  an  egg, 
flatten,  and  fry  light  brown  in  drippings  or  lard  ;  serve  on  a  hot 
dish  with  catsup. 

Codfish  Balls  a  la  Patricia. ‚Äî Prepare  the  codfish  and  pota- 
toes as  in  foregoing  recipe,  form  it  into  small  balls  like  a  walnut, 
then  dip  each  one  first  into  flour  and  then  each  separately  into 
beaten  egg,  and  cover  with  bread  crumbs  ;  drop  into  boiling  fat, 
fry  light  brown,  remove  with  a  skimmer,  lay  for  a  few  minutes  on 
paper,  and  serve  on  a  hot  dish. 


SEA  FOOD,  Etc.  I79 

SALMON. 

Seasonable  the  year  round. 

Where  found,  etc. ‚Äî The  salmon  are  of  great  importance 
to  man  as  an  article  of  food,  and  are  the  most  esteemed  of 
any  fresh-water  fish.  The  species,  which  are  numerous,  inhabit 
the  sea  and  fresh  water ;  they  are  found  in  the  northern  waters 
of  Europe,  Asia,  and  America ;  none  have  been  found  in  South 
America,  the  East  Indies,  or  Africa.  Their  flesh  is  red-colored 
and  delicate,  and  of  excellent  taste.  Their  average  weight  as 
they  are  sold  in  our  markets  is  from  2Y2  to  30  pounds,  and  it 
is  said  that  they  obtain  a  weight  as  high  as  60  to  70  pounds. 
During  the  month  of  September  salmon  advance  very  much  in 
price  ;  then  again  fresh  salmon  caught  on  the  Atlantic  coast  go  out 
of  season  at  the  end  of  this  month.  Eresh  salmon  in  the  Columbia 
Eiver  are  caught  all  the  year  round,  and  are  shipped  in  refrigerator 
cars  and  received  daily  in  our  markets. 

How  to  truss  and  boil  a  Whole  Fish.‚Äî Select  a  medium- 
sized  fresh  salmon,  clean,  and  wash  it ;  then  thread  a  trussing 
needle  with  fine,  strong  cord,  pass  the  needle  first  through  the 
eyes  of  the  fish,  then  tie  the  cord  under  the  jaw ;  next  pass  the 
needle  through  the  center  part  of  the  body,  draw  the  string  tightly, 
so  that  the  head  is  drawn  to  the  left  side  close  to  the  body  of  the 
fish ;  then  fasten  the  string  round  the  end  of  the  tail  (this  gives  the 
fish  the  form  of  the  letter  S).  All  large  fish  which  are  prepared 
either  for  boiling  or  baking  can  be  trussed  the  same  way ;  another 
way  is  to  simply  tie  a  string  around  the  head  of  the  fish.  After  pre- 
paring in  this  way,  place  on  the  grating  of  a  fish  kettle,  cover  with 
cold  water,  add  for  every  2  quarts  of  water  1  heaping  tablespoonful 
salt,  2  onions  cut  into  slices,  1  sliced  carrot,  a  bouquet,  and  Y4  cup 
vinegar  ;  place  the  kettle  over  a  quick  fire  ;  as  soon  as  it  boils  draw 
the  kettle  to  side  of  stove,  and  let  simmer  till  done,  which  may  be 
known  by  the  fish  rising  to  the  surface ;  or  pass  a  larding  needle 


180  SEA  FOOD,  Etc. 

through  the  center  of  the  fish  and  if  it  penetrates  easily  it  is  done ; 
if  not,  it  has  to  remain  longer  over  the  fire.  Shortly  before  serving 
lift  the  drainer  with  the  fish  out  of  the  water,  set  it  for  a  few  min- 
utes on  top  the  kettle,  then  slide  it  on  to  a  warm  dish,  garnish  with 
parsley,  and  serve  with  egg  or  oyster  sauce  or  melted  butter.  If  the 
fish  is  served  at  a  dinner  party,  it  is  best  to  have  both  melted  butter 
and  a  sauce,  as  some  may  object  to  sauce.  Plain  peeled  boiled 
potatoes  are  served  with  this  fish.  All  large  fish  are  boiled  the  same 
way. 

Boiled   Salmon  served   cold   with  Mayonnaise.‚Äî Boil  a 

medium-sized  salmon  as  directed  in  foregoing  recipe ;  when  done, 
slip  on  to  an  oval-shaped  dish  and  set  in  a  cold  place.  Shortly  be- 
fore serving  remove  the  upper  skin,  cover  the  whole  fish  with 
mayonnaise,  lay  a  border  of  chopped  aspic  around  the  dish,  and 
serve,  sending  some  mayonnaise  in  a  sauce  bowl  to  table  with  it.  In 
place  of  a  whole  fish,  a  piece  of  the  salmon  may  be  taken. 

Salmon,  Boiled. ‚Äî Place  on  a  grate  in  a  fish  kettle  a  piece  of 
fresh  salmon  weighing  about  2Y2  pounds,  and  cover  with  boiling 
water;  add  1  heaping  tablespoonful  salt,  1  onion  cut  into  quarters,.! 
small  carrot,  6  whole  peppers,  a  bouquet,  and  Yg  gill  of  wliite  vinegar, 
and  set  the  kettle  over  a  strong  fire ;  as  soon  as  it  begins  to  boil, 
draw  the  kettle  to  side  of  stove,  letting  it  simmer  (but  not  boil)  10 
minutes ;  then  remove  the  fish  carefully  to  a  warm  dish,  and  serve 
either  with  melted  butter,  sauce  Tartare,  or  oyster  sauce.  Another 
way  is  to  procure  a  piece  of  fresh  salmon,  split  it  through  the 
back,  remove  the  bones,  and  cut  into  slices  1  inch  in  thickness, 
and  lay  on  the  grating  of  a  fish  kettle;  place  a  fish  kettle  with 
water  over  the  fire,  add  for  every  2  quarts  of  water  2  table- 
spoonfuls  vinegar,  1  heaping  tablespoonful  salt,  a  bouquet,  and  1 
onion ;  when  the  water  boils  put  the  grating  with  the  fish  pieces 
into  the  fish  kettle,  and  as  soon  as  the  water  begins  to  boil  again 
remove  to  side  of  stove,  where  it  stops  boiling,  letting  it  remain  10 
minutes ;  then  lift  the  grating  up  and  place  it  on  top  of  the  kettle 


SEA  FOOD,  Etc.  181 

to  drain  for  a  few  minutes ;  now  arrange  the  salmon  on  a  warm 
dish,  garnish  with  parsley,  and  serve  with  either  melted  butter- 
sauce  Genevoise,  sauce  piquante,  or  sauce  Robert.  Boiled  potatoes 
are  usually  served  with  this  fish. 

Salmon  a  la  Bismarck. ‚Äî Select  a  fresh  salmon  of  8  to  10 
pounds,  clean,  wash,  and  wipe  dry;  rub  1  even  tablespoonful  salt 
on  inside  of  fish  ;  fill  with  fish  forcemeat,  sew  it  up,  sprinkle  over 
the  juice  of  2  lemons  and  1  tablespoonful  salt,  and  set  the  fish  in  a 
cool  place  for  1  hour;  then  lay  4  thin  slices  of  larding  pork  on  a 
fish  grating,  place  the  fish  over  the  pork ;  lay  also  4  slices  of  it  in 
the  bottom  of  the  fish  kettle,  set  the  grating  in  the  kettle,  add  1 
bottle  Ehine  wine,  and  sufficient  white  broth  to  reach  half  way  up 
the  fish ;  add  a  large  bouquet,  2  medium-sized  onions,  1  carrot,  2 
ounces  lean  raw  ham  cut  into  small  pieces,  and  12  whole  peppers ; 
cover  and  place  the  fish  kettle  over  the  fire,  and  as  soon  as  boiling 
remove  the  cover,  lay  a  piece  of  buttered  paper  over  the  fish,  and 
set  kettle  in  the  oven,  to  bake  20  minutes ;  then  turn  the  fish  over, 
return  to  the  oven,  and  roast  till  done,  basting  frequently.  When 
done,  lift  it  out  and  slide  on  to  a  warm  dish  ;  brush  the  top  over 
with  a  glaze,  and  return  for  a  few  miuutes  to  the  oven  ;  when  ready 
to  serve,  lay  24  small  button  mushrooms  cooked  in  butter  and  24 
small  cooked  truffles,  in  clusters,  around  it ;  add  to  this  12  large 
decorated  fish  forcemeat  balls,  previously  boiled  in  salted  water ; 
have  12  boiled  crawfish  prepared,  and  place  them  between  the  clus- 
ters ;  take  two  hartlets  and  put  on  to  each  one  a  few  truffles  and 
mushrooms  and  1  crawfish ;  stick  the  hartlets  into  the  fish,  one  3 
inches  from  the  head,  and  the  other  3  inches  from  the  tail.  Serve 
the  fish  with  following  sauce :  Eemove  the  skin  from  2  large  ripe 
tomatoes,  place  them  in  a  small  saucepan  over  the  fire,  add  Ya  tea- 
spoonful  butter,  Y4  teaspoonful  salt,  the  same  of  sugar  and  white 
pepper,  cook  15  minutes  without  a  cover ;  then  strain  through  a 
sieve.  Place  in  another  small  saucepan  3  tablespoonfuls  fine- 
chopped   shallots,  10  coarsely  pounded  peppers,  4   tablespoonfuls 


18^  SEA   FOOD,  Etc. 

tarragon  vinegar,  cover  and  cook  till  nearly  dry ;  remove  from  fire, 
add  gradually  the  yolks  of  8  eggs,  then  set  the  saucepan  in  a  ves- 
sel of  hot  water,  add  in  small  pieces  Y2  pound  butter,  stirring  con- 
stantly until  the  ingredients  are  well  mixed;  add  3  teaspoonfuls 
beef  extract,  Yg  even  teaspoonful  salt,  and  three  tablespoonfuls 
of  the  strained  fish  gravy;  set  the  saucepan  over  the  fire,  and 
stir  until  the  sauce  thickens ;  remove  and  strain  through  a  sieve ; 
add  4  tablespoonfuls  of  the  strained  tomatoes,  then  serve  with 
the  fish. 

Salmon  a  la  Richelieu. ‚Äî Procure  a  fine  salmon  and  cut  it 
into  slices  about  %  inch  thick,  beginning  near  the  head  ;  lay  the 
slices  on  a  deep  dish,  sprinkle  over  some  salt,  pour  over  3  or  4  table- 
spoonfuls of  olive  oil,  add  a  handful  fresh  parsley,  2  onions  cut  into 
slices,  and  the  juice  of  1  lemon  ;  cover  and  let  stand  30  minutes ; 
bake  the  head  in  the  oven  till  done  with  butter  and  a  little  larding 
pork.  Place  the  salmon  pieces  on  a  hot  broiler  over  a  moderate, 
clear  fire,  broil  light  brown,  first  on  one  side,  then  on  the  other, 
brushing  over  occasionally  with  a  little  olive  oil  while  broiling. 
When  done  remove  the  fish  to  a  warm  place.  Take  the  head  front 
the  oven,  join  it  with  the  other  pieces  to  give  the  fish  its  original 
form  again,  brush  it  over  with  glaze,  garnish  with  oysters  en  cassee, 
and  serve  with  sauce  Bearnaise.  In  place  of  a  whole  salmon,  part 
of  one  may  be  taken,  and  served  with  melted  butter  and  boiled 
potatoes. 

Salmon  Grille  a  la  Periggueux. ‚Äî Cut  2  pounds  fresh 
salmon  into  6  slices  ;  season  with  1  even  tablespoonful  salt  and  1 
even  teaspoonful  pepper  ;  pour  a  little  olive  oil  over  each  slice,  lay  in 
a  covered  dish  with  Yg  handful  fresh  parsley,  and  let  remain  30  min- 
utes. Fifteen  minutes  before  serving  lay  a  sheet  of  oiled  or  buttered 
paper  over  a  broiler,  on  this  lay  the  salmon  slices  and  broil  on  both 
sides  till  done  (about  6  minutes  on  each  side).  Arrange  the  salmon 
on  a  warm  dish,  garnish  with  parsley,  and  serve  with  Madeira  or 
truffle  sauce. 


SEA  FOOD,  Etc.  183 

Salmon  a  la  Mariniere. ‚Äî Place  a  well-cleaned  fresh  small 
salmon  on  the  grating  in  a  fish  kettle,  add  2  onions  with  2  cloves 
stuck  into  each  one,  1  carrot  cut  into  slices,  a  large  bouquet,  1  table- 
spoonful  whole  peppers,  and  1  heaping  tablespoonf  ul  salt ;  add  1 
bottle  of  red  wine  and  sufficient  cold  water  to  barely  cover  the  fish ; 
place  it  over  a  strong  fire,  let  it  come  quickly  to  a  boil,  then  draw 
the  kettle  to  side  of  stove,  and  let  simmer  till  done,  which  will  take 
about  1  or  lYg  hour.  Shortly  before  serving  lift  out  the  grating 
with  the  fish,  remove  the  upper  skin,  slide  it  on  to  a  warm  dish, 
garnish  with  fried  oysters  and  small  fish  forcemeat  balls,  brushing 
over  a  little  of  the  sauce  the  fish  is  to  be  served  with.  Serve  with 
sauce  matelote. 

Broiled  Salmon  in  Paper. ‚Äî Cut  273  pounds  of  fresh  salmon 
into  6  even  slices,  sprinkle  over  1  tablespoonful  seasoning  salt  (see 
Salt),  rub  the  seasoning  well  into  the  fish,  and  brush  the  slices 
over  with  melted  butter  or  fine  olive  oil ;  butter  6  sheets  of  white 
paper  cut  in  the  shape  of  a  heart,  inclose  1  slice  in  each  sheet  of 
paper,  and  twist  the  edges  together ;  lay  them  on  a  broiler  over  a 
moderate  fire,  and  broil  8  minutes  on  each  side  ;  then  remove,  and 
serve  on  a  warm  dish,  leaving  the  paper  undisturbed. 

Salmon  en  Papilottes. ‚Äî Procure  6  slices  of  fresh  salmon  Yg 
inch  thick  ;  pare  these  into  oval  shapes,  4  inches  long  and  3  inches 
wide  ;  season  with  1  even  tablespoonful  salt,  1  even  teaspoonful  pep- 
per, and  place  in  a  covered  dish  with  3  branches  of  parsley,  1  sliced 
onion,  and  2  tablespoonfuls  lemon  juice,  and  let  stand  20  minutes. 
In  the  meantime  place  a  small  saucepan  with  1  ounce  fine-chopped 
larding  pork  over  the  fire,  add  Yg  clove  of  bruised  garlic,  cook  and 
stir  5  minutes ;  then  add  3  tablespoonfuls  fine-chopped  mushrooms, 
stir  and  cook  5  minutes ;  season  with  Y4  even  teaspoonful  pepper, 
1  even  teaspoonful  salt,  and  remove  from  fire  ;  add  Y2  tablespoonful 
fine-chopped  parsley  and  set  aside  to  cool ;  butter  6  sheets  of  writ- 
ing paper,  cut  into  heart  shapes ;  on  one  side  of  each  sheet  place 
a  teaspoonful  of  the  above  preparation,  over  this  the  salmon  slices, 


184:  SEA  FOOD,  Etc. 

dividing  the  remaining  preparation  equally  over  the  salmon ;  then 
inclose  with  paper ;  put  into  a  baking  pan  and  place  in  medium- 
hot  oven  ;  when  the  papers  have  swollen  and  have  obtained  a  fine 
light-brown  color,  remove  the  papilottes,  arrange  them  on  a  warm 
dish,  and  serve  with  fried  potatoes  a  I'allemande. 

Broiled  Salmon  with  Sauce  Bearnaise. ‚Äî Procure  2  slices  of 
salmon  about  %  inch  in  thickness  ;  season  with  1  even  tablespoonful 
salt  and  the  juice  of  Yg  lemon ;  lay  the  slices  in  a  covered  dish, 
pour  over  2  tablespoonfuls  olive  oil ;  add  1  fine-sliced  onion  and  2 
sprigs  of  fresh  parsley  ;  cover  and  let  lie  30  minutes.  If  the  pure 
olive  oil  is  not  at  hand,  then  brush  the  slices  over  with  melted 
butter.  Shortly  before  serving  place  the  salmon  on  a  hot  broiler 
over  a  clear  coal  fire  and  broil  till  done  ;  transfer  the  salmon  to  a 
warm  dish,  stir  1  tablespoonful  butter  to  a  cream,  add  slowly  1  table- 
spoonful  lemon  juice,  spread  this  over  the  fish,  and  serve  with  sauce 
Bearnaise. 

Broiled  Salmon  a  I'Arminius. ‚Äî Procure  2  pounds  salmon 
and  cut  it  into  slices  about  Ys  ii^ch  in  thickness ;  brush  them  over 
with  a  little  melted  butter,  then  place  on  a  hot  broiler  over  a  clear 
coal  fire,  and  broil  till  done  ;  lay  the  salmon  on  a  warm  dish,  stir  2 
ounces  butter  to  a  cream,  add  1  even  tablespoonful  salt,  Y?  even  tea- 
spoonful  pepper,  stir  until  well  mixed ;  then  add  the  juice  of  Ya 
lemon,  spread  this  equally  divided  over  the  fish,  and  serve. 

Broiled  Salmon  a  I'Americaine. ‚Äî Have  2  pounds  of  salmon 
cut  into  slices  Ys  i^^ch  in  thickness ;  lay  on  a  gridiron  and  broil  over 
a  clear  coal  fire,  on  both  sides ;  when  done,  remove  from  the  fire, 
dress  on  a  warm  dish,  sprinkle  over  some  salt,  lay  over  some  butter 
in  small  pieces,  set  it  for  a  few  minutes  in  the  oven,  and  serve. 

Cotelettes  of  Salmon. ‚Äî Procure  2Y2  pounds  of  fresh  salmon, 
cut  it  into  6  even  slices,  season  with  1  even  tablespoonful  seasoning 
salt,  fry  three  minutes  on  each  side  over  slow  fire  in  butter,  then 
remove ;  add  to  the  butter  in  the  pan  1  heaping  tablespoonful  flour, 


SEA  FOOD,  Etc.  185 

stir  a  few  minutes ;  add  1  cupful  white  broth,  a  little  mushroom 
liquor,  cook  and  stir  3  minutes  ;  mix  the  yolks  of  2  eggs,  with  the 
juice  of  Yg  lemon,  and  add  to  the  sauce ;  remove  from  fire,  cover  each 
slice  of  salmon  with  this  sauce,  and  set  aside  until  cold ;  then  dip  in 
beaten  egg  and  bread  crumbs,  and  fry  in  hot  fat  light  brown  ;  arrange 
the  cdtelettes  in  a  circle  on  a  warm  dish,  place  a  branch  of  parsley 
on  the  end  of  each  cotelette,  pour  in  the  center  of  dish  an  oyster 
ragout,  or  serve  with  Colbert  sauce. 

All  fish  with  firm  meat  may  be  prepared  the  same  way. 

Salmon  in  Aspic. ‚Äî Soak  4  ounces  gelatin  in  1  pint  of  cold 
water  until  soft ;  place  a  large  saucepan  with  2  quarts  Avhite  broth 
over  the  fire,  add  2  blades  of  mace,  1  bay  leaf,  6  whole  cloves,  13 
whole  peppers,  Yg  pint  white  vinegar,  and  Yg  teaspoonf ul  salt ;  boil  5 
minutes ;  then  add  the  gelatin,  stir  until  dissolved.  Beat  the  whites 
of  4  eggs  to  a  stiff  froth,  add  the  juice  of  two  lemons,  and  a  little 
cold  water,  stir  this  into  the  broth,  stir  and  boil  5  minutes ;  then 
draw  the  saucepan  to  side  of  stove,  letting  it  stand  5  minutes.  Set 
a  doubler  boiler  with  water  in  the  under  saucepan  over  the  fire, 
place  on  top  of  the  inner  saucepan  a  sieve,  lay  a  napkin  in  the  sieve, 
pour  the  aspic  in  the  napkin,  not  too  much  at  once,  leaving  the 
double  boiler  on  the  hot  stove  until  all  the  aspic  has  been  strained, 
then  set  aside  to  cool.  At  the  same  time  cut  4  pounds  of  fresh  sal- 
mon into  pieces  3  inches  in  size,  place  them  on  the  grating  of  a 
fish  kettle,  add  1  heaping  tablespoonful  salt,  Yg  cupful  vinegar,  2 
onions,  a  bouquet,  and  12  whole  peppers ;  cover  with  2  quarts  boil- 
ing water ;  as  soon  as  the  fish  boils,  draw  the  kettle  to  side  of  stove, 
letting  it  simmer  5  minutes ;  then  remove  the  salmon,  take  off  the 
skin,  lay  on  a  plate,  and  set  aside.  When  perfectly  cold,  wipe  it 
dry  with  a  soft  napkin.  In  the  meantime  cut  with  a  vegetable 
cutter  into  fancy  shapes  the  whites  of  2  hard-boiled  eggs,  1  boiled 
beet,  and  the  peel  of  1  lemon;  have  ready  also  some  fresh  green 
peas,  some  green  pickles,  small  white  onions,  and  3  boiled  crawfish. 
Then  brush  the  inside  of  a  plain  3-quart  mold  with  sweet  almond 


186  SEA  FOOD,  Etc. 

oil,  turn  the  mold  upside  down  for  a  few  minutes ;  then  set  into 
fine-cracked  ice,  pour  in  sufficient  aspic  to  cover  the  bottom  of  the 
mold  ;  as  soon  as  firm,  lay  a  decoration  over  the  aspic  of  the  pre- 
pared ingredients ;  put  each  piece  separately  on  a  larding  needle, 
and  dip  it  first  into  the  cold  aspic  ;  then  lay  in  fancy  designs  over 
the  aspic,  putting  the  lemon  alternately  with  the  white  of  egg  on 
the  edge  of  the  aspic,  then  a  row  of  beets  and  peas.  Lay  in  the 
center  a  boiled  crawfish,  which  must  be  laid  with  its  back  down- 
ward, and  everything  with  the  best  side  down,  so  that  when  the  dish 
is  turned  over  it  will  look  as  if  it  were  swimming ;  round  the  craw- 
fish small  white  pickled  onions  (they  can  be  bought  in  bottles  as 
small  as  large  peas) ;  carefully  pour  over  this  a  little  aspic,  and  when 
firm  add  sufficient  aspic  to  cover  all.  Then  place  3  or  4  pieces  of 
salmon  over  the  aspic,  lay  in  a  circle  around  one  piece  of  salmon 
small  white  onions,  around  the  second  the  lemon  peel  with  the  yellow 
side  downward,  and  around  the  third  some  green  peas ;  decorate  the 
edge  with  the  white  of  egg  and  beets ;  carefully  pour  over  some 
more  aspic,  and  when  firm,  cover  the  whole  again  with  a  decoration  ; 
continue  with  the  salmon,  the  decoration,  and  crawfish  till  all  is 
used ;  then  place  the  form  on  ice  till  firm.  When  ready  to  serve, 
lay  a  dish  2  inches  wider  than  the  aspic  over  the  mold,  turn  the 
mold  upside  down  on  to  the  plate,  and  the  aspic  will  slip  on  to  the 
dish  ;  serve  with  mayonnaise.  If  any  cold  fish  is  left  over,  a  dish  of 
this  kind  may  be  prepared  with  little  trouble.  If  white  broth  is 
not  at  hand,  take  two  quarts  boiling  water  and  2  teaspoonfuls  beef 
extract,  or  the  white  broth  can  be  easily  prepared  of  a  small  shank 
of  veal  or  a  part  of  a  chicken. 

Salmon,  Pickled. ‚Äî Boil  the  salmon  as  directed,  either  whole  or 
a  piece  of  salmon.  Place  a  saucepan  with  1  quart  white  vinegar  and 
Vs  pint  of  water  over  the  fire ;  add  12  whole  peppers,  2  bay  leaves,  6 
cloves,  1  even  tablespoonful  salt,  1  tablespoonful  sugar,  2  onions  cut 
into  slices,  and  let  this  boil  5  minutes ;  then  set  aside  to  cool ;  cut 
the  boiled  salmon  into  pieces,  put  in  a  stone  jar,  pour  the  pickle 


SEA  POOD,  Etc.  187 

over,  cover,  and  keep  in  a  cool  place.  Any  cold  salmon  left  over  can 
be  used  for  this.  Another  way  is  to  cut  the  fish  into  pieces  about 
2  inches  square,  sprinkle  with  salt,  roll  in  flour,  and  fry  light  brown 
on  both  sides  in  Yg  lard  and  Yg  butter.  After  the  fish  has  cooled  off 
lay  in  a  stone  pot ;  put  in  a  saucepan  sufficient  water  and  vinegar  to 
cover  the  fish,  about  Y4  vinegar  and  Y4  water  ;  add  a  few  onions  cut 
into  slices,  some  whole  peppers  and  whole  cloves,  2  bay  leaves,  and 
1  lemon  cut  into  slices  and  freed  from  pits.  Boil  this  for  5  minutes, 
and  when  cold  pour  the  pickle  over  the  fish. 

Salted  Salmon,  Broiled. ‚Äî Place  3  pounds  salted  salmon  in  a 
vessel  of  cold  water  for  24  hours,  changing  the  water  twice  during 
that  time ;  then  place  the  fish  with  clean  cold  water  in  a  kettle  over 
the  fire,  adding  1  onion,  1  carrot,  a  bouquet,  and  Y4  cup  vinegar ; 
let  the  fish  come  to  a  boil,  then  draw  it  to  side  of  stove,  letting  it 
simmer  till  done ;  lift  it  from  the  kettle,  place  it  on  a  warm  dish, 
and  serve  with  caper  sauce  and  boiled  potatoes  ;  if  any  of  the  salmon 
is  left,  it  may  be  chopped  fine  and  mixed  with  mashed  potatoes, 
taking  2  parts  potatoes  and  1  part  salmon ;  add  1  egg,  form  the 
preparations  into  small  round  cakes,  roll  them  lightly  in  flour,  and 
fry  on  both  sides  to  a  delicate  brown  in  lard  or  drippings. 

Smoked  Salmon,  Boiled. ‚Äî Place  2  pounds  of  smoked  salmon 
in  a  saucepan  over  the  fire  and  cover  with  cold  water ;  as  soon  as 
it  begins  to  boil,  drain  ojffi  the  water,  and  cover  again  with  fresh 
water ;  when  it  boils  again,  draw  the  saucepan  to  the  side  of  stove, 
letting  it  simmer  about  10  minutes  till  done,  then  remove,  dress  on 
a  warm  dish,  and  serve  with  egg  sauce. 

Smoked  Salmon,  Broiled. ‚Äî Place  1  pound  of  smoked  salmon 
in  a  saucepan  over  the  fire,  cover  with  cold  water,  let  it  come  to  a 
boil,  then  drain  and  wash  off  with  clean  cold  water;  then  remove 
and  cool  in  cold  water.  Shortly  before  serving,  wipe  the  salmon 
dry,  brush  it  over  with  melted  butter,  lay  on  a  broiler,  and  boil  5 
minutes  on  each  side.  Stir  1  tablespoonful  butter  to  a  cream,  add 
the  juice  of  Ya  lemon,  Ya  even  teaspoouful  pepper,  Ys  teaspoonf ul 
13 


188  SEA  FOOD,  Etc. 

grated  nutmeg,  and  1  teaspoonful  fine-chopped  parsley  ;  spread  this 
over  the  fish  and  serve.  Another  way  is  to  cut  the  smoked  salmon 
into  slices  Y4  inch  thick,  lay  on  a  broiler  over  a  clear  fire,  broil  5 
minutes  on  the  flesh  side  and  1  minute  on  the  skin  side ;  then  ar- 
range on  a  warm  dish,  with  little  pieces  of  butter  sprinkled  over 
them. 

Salmon,  Preserved. ‚Äî Clean,  wash,  and  cut  the  fish  into  pieces, 
sprinkle  with  salt,  lay  in  a  roasting  pan  with  some  butter,  and  roast 
until  done,  basting  with  butter.  Then  lay  the  pieces  of  fish  in  a 
stone  jar,  and  place  a  board  and  a  stone  on  top  until  cold ; 
remove  board  and  stone,  and  pour  clarified  butter  over.  Or  bake 
the  fish  in  olive  oil,  pack  in  a  stone  jar  or  glass  jars,  and  pour  fine 
olive  oil  over.     Tie  up  and  set  in  a  cool  place. 

Salmon,  Smoked. ‚Äî Having  cleaned  the  fish,  split  it  through 
the  back,  remove  the  entrails  and  head,  wash  well  and  dry  with  a 
soft  cloth.  Eub  the  fish  well  with  saltpeter  and  pepper  until  it 
begins  to  foam ;  then  rub  over  with  salt,  being  careful  not  to  take 
too  much  salt.  For  a  fish  of  6  pounds,  take  2  tablespoonfuls  salt,  Y2 
teaspoonful  pepper,  and  74  teaspoonful  saltpeter.  Then  lay  the  2 
halves  together  again,  and  let  the  fish  lie  3  days.  During  that  time 
baste  several  times  with  the  pickle,  which  will  be  under  it ;  then 
take  out,  put  a  tape  through  the  place  where  the  head  was,  and  hang 
in  the  smoke ;  let  it  remain  from  3  to  4  days.  It  must  be  smoked 
well,  but  not  dry. 

Salmon  Trout  is  considered  the  finest  from  the  end  of  May  to 
the  end  of  September,  soon  after  the  spawning  season  begins.  The 
salmon  trouts  belong  to  the  genus  Fario  (Valenciennes),  having  1 
row  of  teeth  on  the  vomer,  the  true  salmon  having  the  palate  smooth ; 
the  species  are  so  called  from  the  redness  of  the  flesh,  but  all  the 
trouts  have  this  color  at  some  period  of  their  lives,  depending  prob- 
ably on  their  food.  There  are  several  species  called  salmon  trout  in 
lakes  shut  off  from  the  sea,  and  near  the  mouths  of  the  rivers  of 
Maine.     The  so-called  sea  trout  of  the  Gulf  of  St.  Lawrence  (Sahno 


SEA  FOOD,  Etc.  jgg 

immaculatus^  H.  E.  Storer)  has  flesh  of  a  fine  pink  color  and  a 
superior  flavor,  is  sea  green  above,  having  lower  parts  and  the  fins 
white  ;  it  rarely  exceeds  a  weight  of  7  pounds. 

Salmon  Trout  a  la  Bearnaise. ‚Äî Place  a  good-sized,  well- 
cleaned  fish  on  the  grating  of  a  fish  kettle,  cover  with  cold  water, 
add  Yg  pint  vinegar,  2  tablespooufuls  salt,  2  onions,  12  whole  pep- 
pers, and  a  bouquet.  Set  the  kettle  over  a  strong  fire ;  as  soon  as  it 
comes  to  a  boil  remove  it  to  side  of  stove,  letting  simmer,  not  boil ; 
when  done  lift  the  grating  with  the  fish  out  of  the  kettle,  slide  the 
fish  on  to  a  warm  dish,  garnish  with  12  potatoes  tortonia,  and  pars- 
ley, serve  with  sauce  Bearnaise.  Fish  boiled  in  this  way  may  be 
served  with  the  following  sauces  and  named  after  the  sauce  it  is  to 
be  served  with :  Sauce  Eegence,  Genevoise,  Eobert,  poivrade, 
piquante,  tomato,  gourmets,  paprika,  matelote,  Hollandaise,  lobster, 
egg^  mustard,  caper,  bechamel,  allemande,  and  maitre  d'hotel. 

Salmon  Trout  cooked  in  Wine  a  rAllemande.‚Äî Select 

a  large  fresh  fish  weighing  about  5  to  6  pounds,  clean  and  wash,  tie 
a  string  around  the  head,  lay  on  a  grating  in  a  fish  kettle,  sprinkle 
over  1  heaping  tablespoonful  salt,  cover  with  red  wine,  add  2  onions 
cut  into  slices,  1  large  bouquet,  and  12  whole  peppers,  and  set  the 
kettle  over  the  fire ;  as  soon  as  it  boils  remove  the  kettle  to  side  of 
stove  and  let  it  simmer  till  done  (about  1  hour).  When  ready  to 
serve,  lift  the  fish  out  of  kettle,  slide  it  on  to  a  warm  dish,  garnish 
with  boiled  crawfish  and  parsley,  and  serve  with  sauce  Hollandaise. 

Salmon  Trout  with  Mayonnaise. ‚Äî Boil  the  fish  the  same  as 
in  foregoing  recipes ;  let  it  cool  in  the  broth,  then  lift  out  of  kettle, 
slip  on  to  a  dish,  and  set  on  ice ;  when  ready  to  serve,  garnish  with 
chopped  aspic,  and  serve  with  mayonnaise. 

Salmon  Trout  ^  la  CrSme. ‚Äî Select  a  fine  fresh  fish  weighing 
from  4  to  5  pounds,  clean,  wash,  and  wipe  dry ;  season  with  1  heap- 
ing tablespoonful  salt,  equally  distributed  in  and  outside  the  fish ; 
let  lie  about  30  minutes ;  lay  3  thin  slices  of  larding  pork  in  the 
bottom  of  a  roasting  pan ;  put  the  fish  on  the  grating  of  a  fish 


190  SEA  FOOD,  Etc. 

kettle,  place  the  grating  with  the  fish  in  the  baking  pan,  pour 
2  ounces  melted  butter  over  the  fish,  cover  with  buttered  paper,  and 
set  the  pan  in  a  medium-hot  oven  10  minutes ;  then  remove  the 
paper,  baste  the  fish  with  its  own  gravy ;  add  1  pint  of  cream,  cover 
again  with  the  paper,  return  the  pan  to  the  oven,  baste  frequently, 
and  roast  till  nearly  done.  When  ready  to  serve  carefully  remove 
the  fish  to  a  warm  dish,  strain  the  sauce  into  a  saucepan,  add  Yg 
cupful  mushroom  liquor,  6  peppers,  a  small  bouquet,  cook  10 
minutes ;  add  Yg  teaspoonful  nutmeg ;  remove  the  bouquet ;  mix 
the  yolks  of  3  eggs  with  the  juice  of  Yg  lemon,  add  a  little  of  the 
sauce  to  the  yolks,  then  gradually  add  the  yolks  to  the  sauce,  not 
letting  the  sauce  boil  after  the  yolks  have  been  added ;  decorate  the 
fish  with  small  potato  balls  (a  la  patricia)  and  green  parsley,  and 
serve  with  the  sauce. 

TEOUT. 

Where  found,  etc. ‚Äî Brook  or  speckled  trout  {Salmo  fontinalis^ 
Mitchill)  is  considered  the  finest  from  the  end  of  May  to  the  end 
of  September  in  North  America,  is  from  8  to  20  inches  long.  It 
is  found  abundantly  in  streams  of  the  British  provinces,  the  New 
England,  Middle,  and  Western  States,  and  is  everywhere  highly 
esteemed  as  food ;  it  is  rarely  taken  weighing  more  than  lYs  pound. 
The  common  European  brook  trout  {Salar  fario,  Valenciennes)  is 
usually  10  to  14  inches  long,  though  sometimes  considerably  longer, 
some  having  a  weight  of  15  pounds;  it  is  shorter  and  stouter  than 
the  salmon,  of  a  yellowish  brown  above,  passing  to  yellow  on  the 
sides,  and  silvery  below,  the  back  spotted  with  reddish  brown  and 
the  sides  with  bright  red.  The  trout,  both  in  Europe  and  Amer- 
ica, is  a  favorite  subject  for  pisciculture  from  the  ease  with  which 
artificial  fecundation  of  the  eggs  can  be  affected. 

Trout,  Fried. ‚Äî Select  6  small  trout,  clean,  wash,  and  wipe 
them  dry ;  season  with  1  even  tablespoonful  salt,  dust  lightly  with 
flour,  dip  them  in  beaten  egg,  roll  in  bread  crumbs,  and  fry  in  half 
lard  and  half  butter  to  a  fine  golden  color;  serve  with  melted  but- 


SEA  FOOD,  Etc.  191 

ter  and  boiled  or  baked  potatoes.  Another  way  is  to  roll  the  fish  in 
flour,  cut  4  ounces  larding  pork  into  small  pieces,  place  it  in  a 
pan  over  the  fire,  fry  light  brown,  then  add  the  fish,  cook  on  both 
sides  to  a  delicate  brown,  and  serve. 

Trout,  Broiled. ‚Äî Clean,  wash,  and  dry  6  small  trout  weigh- 
ing Y2  pound  each,  sprinkle  over  1  even  tablespoonful  salt,  place 
them  in  a  covered  dish,  squeeze  over  the  juice  of  1  lemon,  add  V2 
bunch  fresh  parsley,  cover  the  dish,  and  let  it  remain  1  hour ;  20 
minutes  before  serving,  wipe  the  fish  dry  with  a  clean  napkin,  dust 
with  flour,  dip  in  melted  butter,  roll  in  grated  bread  crumbs  ;  then 
lay  the  fish  on  a  hot  broiler  over  a  moderate  clear  fire,  and  broil  till 
done  (about  5  minutes  on  each  side)  ;  arrange  the  fish  on  a  warm 
dish,  and  serve  with  3  ounces  melted  butter  in  which  the  juice  of 
Ys  lemon  and  1  tablespoonful  of  fine-chopped  parsley  have  been 
mixed.  Another  way  is  to  make  2  small  incisions  in  the  fish,  brush 
them  over  with  a  little  melted  butter,  lay  on'a  broiler,  and  cook  till 
done ;  remove  the  fish  to  a  warm  dish,  stir  2  ounces  butter  to  a 
cream,  add  1  even  tablespoonful  salt,  Y2  even  teaspoonful  pepper, 
spread  this  over  the  fish,  and  serve ;  or  season  the  fish  with  salt 
before  broiling  and  spread  2  ounces  maitre  d'hotel  butter  over 
them. 

Trout  baked  in  Paper. ‚Äî Clean  and  wash  6  small  trout, 
weighing  each  about  7^  pound,  draw  them  through  the  gills,  sea- 
son with  salt,  and  stuff  with  the  following  preparation :  Stir  2 
ounces  butter  to  a  cream,  add  Yg  cupful  fine-chopped  mushrooms, 
1  teaspoonful  fine-chopped  parsley,  1  cupful  grated  bread  crumbs, 
1  tablespoonful  fine-chopped  onion  previously  cooked  3  minutes 
in  a  little  butter ;  season  with  1  even  teaspoonful  salt,  Y4  ^^^' 
spoonful  pepper,  then  use.  When  the  fish  are  all  filled  with  this 
preparation,  roll  each  one  in  buttered  paper  and  lay  them  in  a 
thickly  buttered  pan ;  20  minutes  before  serving,  place  the  pan  in  a 
moderate  oven  and  bake  till  done,  turning  the  fish  once  and  bast- 
ing it  often.     Arrange  them  on  a  hot  dish,  leaving  the  paper  un- 


192  SEA  FOOD,  Etc. 

disturbed,  and  serve  with  its  own  gravy,  to  which  a  little  lemon 
juice  and  fine-chopped  parsley  may  be  added. 

CAEP. 

Seasonable  from  October  to  April. 

Where  found,  etc. ‚Äî Carp  belongs  to  the  family  Cyprinida\ 
their  size  varies  from  Yg  to  2y2  feet,  and  their  weight  from  1  to  18 
pounds ;  they  are  considered  excellent  for  the  table ;  carp  inhabits 
the  fresh  waters,  lakes,  and  streams  of  Central  and  Southern  Eu- 
rope, whence  it  has  spread  over  the  northern  parts ;  it  seems  to  have 
been  introduced  into  England  300  years  ago.  The  common  carp 
has  been  introduced  from  France  into  the  Hudson  and  other  waters 
of  New  York ;  it  lives  to  a  considerable  age  and  is  exceedingly  pro- 
lific ;  it  prefers  quiet  waters  with  soft  and  muddy  bottoms,  spawn- 
ing in  May  or  June,  according  to  locality.  They  are  very  tenacious 
of  life,  and  will  pass  a  long  time  without  food,  especially  in  winter. 

Carp,  Fried. ‚Äî Scale  and  pare  1  or  3  carps,  split  them  open 
lengthwise  through  the  belly,  remove  the  entrails,  wash  and  wipe 
dry,  then  season  with  salt.  If  the  fish  be  large  cut  it  into  2  or  3 
pieces,  if  small  leave  whole ;  beat  1  or  2  eggs  till  light,  dip  the  fish 
first  in  the  beaten  e^g,  then  roll  in  cracker  or  bread  crumbs.  Place 
a  frying  pan  with  1  tablespoonful  lard  over  the  fire,  as  soon  as  hot 
put  in  the  fish,  and  fry  light  brown.  Soak  the  carp  milt  in  milk 
for  ten  minutes,  then  wipe  dry ;  season  with  salt,  dip  in  Qgg,  cover 
with  cracker  crumbs,  and  fry  to  a  delicate  brown.  Arrange  the 
carp  on  a  warm  dish,  and  lay  the  fried  milts  around.  A  simpler 
way  is  to  season  the  fish  with  salt,  roll  in  flour ;  then  fry  light 
brown  on  both  sides,  either  in  larding  pork,  half  lard  and  half 
butter,  drippings,  or  oil.  Garnish  with  1  lemon  cut  lengthwise  into 
pieces. 

Carp  fried  a  la  Mariniere. ‚Äî Select  a  nice  fresh  carp  of  3  or 
4  pounds,  clean,  wash,  and  wipe  it  dry  ;  cut  it  into  27o-inch-sized 
pieces,  sprinkle  over  2  teaspoonfuls  salt  and  the  juice  of  1  lemon. 


SEA  FOOD,  Etc.  I93 

Place  the  fish  in  a  dish  with  1  onion  cut  into  slices,  Y2  bunch  fresh 
parsley,  1  sprig  of  thyme,  and  2  bay  leaves  ;  cover  and  let  stand  30 
minutes  ;  remove  the  pieces,  wipe  dry  with  a  soft  napkin,  and  dust 
lightly  with  flour.  Have  ready  some  fresh  grated  bread  crumbs 
and  1  well-beaten  egg ;  take  each  piece  separately  on  a  fork,  dip 
first  in  the  egg,  then  cover  with  the  bread  crumbs.  Place  a  deep 
frying  pan  with  2  ounces  butter  and  2  ounces  lard  over  a  moderate 
fire ;  as  soon  as  hot  put  in  as  many  fish  pieces  as  will  conveniently 
go  in,  and  fry  light  brown  on  both  sides  ;  when  all  are  fried,  arrange 
them  on  a  warm  dish  and  serve  with  sauce  Tartare,  or  spread  2 
ounces  maitre  d'hotel  butter  over  the  fish  and  serve. 

Carp,  Broiled. ‚Äî Split  a  well-cleaned  carp  down  the  back,  re- 
move the  backbone,  season  the  fish  with  salt,  brush  over  with 
melted  butter,  and  cover  with  bread  crumbs  ;  lay  the  fish  on  a 
broiler  over  a  moderate  fire  with  the  flesh  side  toward  the  fire,  broil 
about  12  minutes  on  the  flesh  side,  then  turn  over  and  broil  5  minutes 
on  the  skin  side,  dress  the  fish  on  a  warm  dish,  spread  over  2  table- 
spoonfuls  maitre  d'hdtel  butter,  lay  the  fish  together  again  in  its 
natural  form,  and  serve. 

Carp  in  Polish  Sauce  (also  called  Beer  Fisli). ‚Äî Clean, 
wash,  and  cut  into  pieces  a  fish  of  4  pounds,  sprinkle  with  1  table- 
spoonful  salt,  and  set  aside  for  Yg  hour ;  30  minutes  before  serving 
put  the  fish  in  a  stew  pan  with  IY3  pint  brown  beer,  or  lager  beer, 
2  cut  onions,  1  bay  leaf,  6  whole  peppers,  1  lemon  cut  into  slices 
and  freed  from  pits.  Place  over  the  fire  and  stew  slowly  until  done, 
then  take  the  fish  out,  lay  it  on  a  warm  dish.  Mix  1  tablespoonful 
butter  with  1  tablespoonful  flour,  stir  it  into  the  sauce,  add  1  table- 
spoonful  sugar,  cook  a  few  minutes,  strain,  and  pour  the  sauce  over 
the  fish.  In  place  of  sugar,  1  lebkuchen  may  be  soaked  in  a  little 
of  the  fish  gravy,  mashed  fine,  and  added  to  the  sauce ;  but  less 
flour  must  be  taken. 

Carp  en  Matelote. ‚Äî Scale  and  clean  a  4-pound  carp,  cut  it 
into  2Y8-iiich-sized  pieces ;  season  with  1  even  tablespoonful  salt ; 


194:  SEA  FOOD,  Etc. 

put  the  fish  in  a  saucepan,  add  1  pint  of  red  wine,  2  onions  cut 
into  pieces,  a  large  bouquet,  12  whole  peppers,  and  1  pint  bouillon, 
or  boiling  water,  with  Yg  teaspoonf  ul  beef  extract.  Set  the  saucepan 
over  the  fire  ;  as  soon  as  it  boils  draw  to  side  of  stove  and  let  sim- 
mer till  done ‚Äî about  10  minutes ;  then  carefully  remove  the  fish, 
lay  it  in  its  natural  form  on  a  warm  dish.  Melt  1  tablespoonful 
butter,  add  1  tablespoonful  flour,  cook,  and  stir  3  minutes ;  strain 
the  fish  broth,  add  1  pint  of  it  to  the  flour  and  butter,  also  Ya  can 
small  mushrooms ;  cook  15  minutes.  Have  ready  12  small  fish  force- 
meat balls  boiled  in  salted  water  and  12  small  white  cooked  onions ; 
lay  the  forcemeat  balls,  the  onions,  and  the  mushrooms  around  the 
fish,  pour  some  of  the  sauce  over,  and  serve  the  remainder  in  a 
sauce  bowl. 

Carp,  Roasted,  with  Crenie  a  la  I'Allemande. ‚Äî Procure  a 
well-cleaned  carp  of  4  to  5  pounds,  season  it  with  2  teaspoonfuls 
salt,  Y2  teaspoonful  pepper,  sprinkle  over  the  juice  of  1  lemon ;  let 
the  fish  lie  30  minutes.  Then  place  in  a  thickly  buttered  baking 
pan,  pour  1  ounce  melted  butter  over  the  fish,  and  sprinkle  Y2  cup 
of  grated  bread  crumbs  over  the  top ;  pour  1  pint  of  sour  cream  in 
the  pan,  add  1  whole  onion  and  1  bay  leaf ;  place  in  a  moderate 
oven,  and  baste  frequently  till  done  ;  then  lift  the  fish  carefully  to  a 
warm  dish,  remove  the  fat  from  the  gravy,  and  strain.  Serve  the 
gravy  with  the  fish ;  if  too  thick,  add  Y2  cupful  boiling  water  and  a 
little  beef  extract. 

Carp  Roe. ‚Äî Place  the  roe  in  a  small  saucepan,  cover  with  water, 
add  1  small  onion,  a  small  bouquet,  1  teaspoonful  salt,  3  whole  pep- 
pers, and  1  tablespoonful  vinegar ;  boil  slowly  5  minutes,  then  re- 
move ;  place  it  in  the  same  pan  with  the  carp,  and  when  done  lay  it 
around  the  fish. 

Carp  a  la  Cliambord. ‚Äî Select  a  fine  fresh  carp  weighing  about 
6  pounds,  clean,  wash,  and  wipe  it  dry ;  remove  the  skin  from  one 
side  and  lard  the  side  with  truffles ;  cut  the  truffles  in  small,  long 
pieces  and  round  them  at  one  end ;  then  make  with  the  pointed 


SEA   FOOD,  Etc.  I95 

handle  of  a  wooden  spoon  small  holes  in  the  flesh  of  the  fish  Y2  inch 
apart ;  put  the  truffles  into  the  holes  so  that  they  look  like  small  but- 
tons. Eub  1  even  teaspoonful  salt  inside  the  fish,  fill  with  the  force- 
meat described  below,  sew  up,  and  rub  1  tablespoonf ul  salt  all  over. 
Lay  the  fish  with  3  thin  slices  of  pork  under  it  on  a  grating  in  a 
fish  kettle,  add  1  bottle  of  red  wine,  Y2  teaspoonful  pepper,  and  as 
much  bouillon  as  will  reach  half  way  up  the  fish ;  add  2  onions  cut 
into  slices,  1  large  bouquet,  12  whole  peppers,  and  cover  with  but- 
tered paper.  Place  over  the  fire  and  cook  slowly  15  minutes  ;  then 
remove  the  paper,  set  the  kettle  in  the  oven,  bake  and  baste  fre- 
quently until  the  fish  has  attained  a  nice  color  and  is  done.  Lift 
the  fish  from  the  kettle,  slide  on  to  a  warm  dish,  and  place  in  a 
warrii  place ;  strain  the  broth  into  a  saucepan  and  reduce  it  by 
boiling  to  1  pint.  Melt  in  another  saucepan  1  tablespoonful  but- 
ter, add  1  tablespoonful  flour,  stir  a  few  minutes  ;  add  slowly  the 
fish  broth,  Yg  can  of  mushrooms,  1  sliced  truffle,  Y2  teaspoonful  beef 
extract ;  cook  15  minutes  ;  then  add  1  teaspoonful  anchovy  essence 
and  1  teaspoonful  fine-chopped  parsley.  Lay  18  of  the  below-de- 
scribed small  forcemeat  balls  in  clusters  with  the  mushrooms  around 
the  fish,  also  12  small  white  glazed  onions,  pour  a  little  of  the  sauce 
over  the  garnish,  and  serve  the  remaining  in  a  sauce  bowl. 

Forcemeat. ‚Äî Set  a  small  saucepan  with  1  cup  of  milk  and  1 
ounce  butter  over  the  fire ;  as  soon  as  it  boils  add  1  even  cupful  flour, 
stir  until  formed  into  a  smooth  paste,  then  remove  from  fire  ;  when 
nearly  cold  add  the  yolks  of  2  eggs  and  1  whole  egg,  then  set  aside 
until  perfectly  cold.  In  the  meantime  melt  1  ounce  butter  in  a 
small  saucepan,  add  1  fine-chopped  onion,  Y2  small  clove  of  bruised 
garlic  ;  season  with  1  even  teaspoonful  salt,  Y2  teaspoonful  pepper, 
cook  3  minutes ;  add  Y2  cupful  fine-chopped  mushrooms,  stir,  and 
cook  5  minutes ;  then  remove.  Add  1  teaspoonful  fine-chopped 
parsley  to  the  paste  and  work  it  well  together ;  take  1  pound  fish 
meat,  either  from  bass  or  pickerel,  chop  it  very  fine,  season  with  1 
teaspoonful  salt,  Y4  teaspoonful  pepper,  add  it  to  the  preparation, 
and  fill  the  fish  with  this  as  directed  above.     Mix  the  remaining 


196  SEA  FOOD,  Etc. 

forcemeat  with  1  fine-cliopped  truffle,  mold  into  small  balls,  drop 
into  boiling  salted  water,  and  cook  slowly  6  minutes  ;  then  carefully 
remove  and  use  for  garnishing  the  fish  as  directed. 

SHAD. 

Where  found.  Etc. ‚Äî It  is  a  well-known  fish  of  the  herring 
family ;  the  genus  comprises  more  than  20  species.  The  American 
shad  obtains  a  length  of  about  20  inches,  and  varies  in  weight  from 
2  to  6  pounds  ;  they  come  from  the  South  to  deposit  their  spawn, 
running  up  the  rivers  from  the  sea.  They  appear  in  Charleston  in 
January,  at  Norfolk  in  February,  at  New  York  by  the  end  of  March 
or  beginning  of  April,  at  Boston  by  the  end  of  May.  They  appear 
in  the  Massachusetts  rivers  early  in  May,  the  greatest  run  being 
when  the  apple  trees  are  in  full  blossom ;  the  old  shad  return  to  the 
sea  in  August,  the  young  ones,  3  or  4  inches  long,  following  in  Septem- 
ber. It  is  believed  that  the  life  of  a  shad  is  limited  to  a  single  year. 
The  fish  are  mostly  eaten  fresh  and  are  delicious,  the  only  draw- 
back being  the  innumerable  bones ;  they  lose  their  flavor  the  longer 
they  remain  in  fresh  water. 

Shad,  Broiled. ‚Äî Split  a  well-cleaned  shad  down  the  entire 
back,  remove  the  backbone,  and  season  with  1  tablespoonf ul  salt ; 
brush  the  fish  over  with  a  little  melted  butter  or  olive  oil,  let  it  stand 
30  minutes ;  then  put  the  fish  on  a  broiler  with  the  flesh  side  down, 
place  over  a  clear,  moderate  flre,  and  broil  about  15  minutes ;  then 
turn  and  broil  5  minutes  on  the  skin  side.  Dress  the  shad  on  a 
warm  dish.  Mix  1  tablespoonful  butter  to  a  cream,  add  the  juice 
of  Ya  lemon,  Yg  teaspoonful  nutmeg,  and  1  teaspoonful  fine-chopped 
parsley  ;  spread  this  over  the  fish ;  garnish  with  parsley  and  1  lemon  ^ 
cut  lengthwise  into  6  pieces. 

Shad,  Fried. ‚Äî Eemove  head  and  tail  of  a  well-cleaned  shad, 
cut  it  into  6  pieces ;  season  with  1  tablespoonful  salt,  distribute  the 
salt  evenly  over  the  fish  on  both  sides,  let  it  stand  Ys  bour ;  then  roll 
each  piece  in  flour.     Cut  Y2  pound  of  larding  pork  into  very  small 


SEA  FOOD,  Etc.  197 

pieces,  place  it  in  a  large  frying  pan  over  the  fire,  and  fry  light 
brown ;  then  pour  half  of  the  pork  into  a  small  saucepan,  lay  as 
many  of  the  fish  pieces  in  the  pan  as  will  conveniently  go  in,  and 
fry  over  a  moderate  fire  light  brown  on  both  sides,  adding  gradually 
some  of  the  remaining  pork.  When  all  the  pieces  are  fried,  arrange 
them  on  a  warm  dish,  and  serve  with  butter  and  baked  potatoes. 
In  place  of  pork,  lard  or  drippings  may  be  taken. 

Shad  fried  h  I'Allemande. ‚Äî Split  a  well-cleaned  roe  shad 
down  the  back,  remove  the  roe  and  backbone,  cut  off  the  head  and 
tail,  and  divide  the  fish  into  6  pieces ;  season  with  1  tablespoonful 
salt,  sprinkle  over  2  tablespoonfuls  lemon  juice.  Lay  the  pieces  in 
a  deep  dish  with  1  large  onion  cut  into  slices,  3  sprigs  of  thyme,  2 
bay  leaves,  12  whole  peppers,  cover  and  let  stand  30  minutes ;  then 
take  the  fish  out,  wipe  dry,  and  dust  the  pieces  over  lightly  with 
flour ;  beat  2  eggs  in  a  soupplate  till  light,  take  each  piece  on  a 
fork,  dip  first  into  the  beaten  egg,  then  roll  in  grated  bread  crumbs ; 
pat  each  piece  with  a  knife  on  both  sides  to  make  them  nice  and 
smooth ;  place  a  large  frying  pan  over  the  fire  with  1  tablespoonful 
lard,  1  tablespoonful  butter ;  when  hot,  put  in  as  many  of  the  fish 
pieces  as  will  conveniently  go  in,  and  fry  light  brown  first  on  one 
side  and  then  on  the  other.     Serve  with  sauce  Tartare  a  I'allemande. 

Shad  Roe. ‚Äî Place  the  roe  in  a  saucepan,  cover  with  cold  water; 
add  1  teaspoonful  salt,  1  tablespoonful  vinegar,  1  small  onion  cut 
into  slices,  3  whole  peppers,  and  1  sprig  of  parsley  tied  together  with 
Y2  bay  leaf,  1  clove,  and  a  small  sprig  of  thyme.  Set  the  saucepan 
over  the  fire ;  as  soon  as  it  comes  to  a  boil,  draw  the  saucepan  to 
side  of  stove,  let  it  simmer  (not  boil)  5  minutes ;  then  remove  the 
roe,  dip  it  in  beaten  egg  and  bread  crumbs.  Melt  1  tablespoonful 
butter  in  a  small  frying  pan,  put  in  the  roe,  cover  and  cook  5  min- 
utes on  each  side ;  dress  on  a  warm  dish,  and  spread  over  1  ounce 
maitre  d'hotel  butter. 

Shad  Roe  h  la  JardiniJsre. ‚Äî Prepare  the  roe  as  in  foregoing 
recipe ;  cut  3  or  4  small  young  carrots  into  slices,  lay  over  one 


198  SEA  FOOD,  Etc. 

another,  and  cut  them  into  fine  strips  like  straws  (there  should  be 
Y2  cupful)  ;  place  them  in  a  saucepan,  cover  with  Yg  pint  boiling 
water,  add  1  teaspoonful  sugar,  and  boil  10  minutes ;  then  add  % 
pint  young  green  peas,  cook  until  done.  Mix  Ys  tablespoonful  but- 
ter with  Y*  tablespoonful  cornstarch ;  add  it  to  the  peas  with  Y4 
teaspoonful  salt,  stir  and  cook  2  minutes ;  remove  from  fire,  add  Yz 
tablespoonful  fine-chopped  parsley.  Arrange  the  roe  on  a  warm 
dish,  pour  the  peas  and  carrots  over.  Have  1  pint  small  Ger- 
man potatoes  peeled  and  boiled  in  salted  water,  then  drained, 
returned  to  the  saucepan  with  Ys  tablespoonful  butter,  and  cooked  a 
few  minutes.  Lay  them  in  a  circle  around  the  dish,  sprinkle  a  little 
fine-chopped  parsley  over,  and  serve. 

Shad  Roe,  Broiled. ‚Äî Season  the  roe  with  1  even  teaspoonful 
salt,  pour  over  a  little  melted  butter,  let  it  lay  15  minutes,  then  put 
it  on  a  fine  wire  broiler  and  broil  over  clear  fire,  8  minutes  on  each 
side  (care  must  be  taken  not  to  have  the  fire  too  hot).  When  done, 
dress  the  roes  on  a  warm  dish,  spread  1  tablespoonful  maitre  d'h6tel 
butter  over,  and  garnish  with  potatoes  prepared  as  follows :  Peel  3 
large  potatoes,  cut  each  one  lengthwise  into  6  pieces,  and  fry  them 
light  brown  in  boiling  fat. 

Shad  Roe  on  Toast. ‚Äî Place  a  saucepan  with  1  pint  boiling 
water  over  the  fire,  add  the  juice  of  Ys  lemon,  1  teaspoonful  salt, 
and  2  sprigs  of  parsley ;  lay  in  the  roe,  draw  the  saucepan  to  side 
of  stove,  let  it  stand  8  minutes,  then  remove.  Place  a  small  sauce- 
pan with  Ys  tablespoonful  fine-chopped  larding  pork  over  the  fire, 
and  fry  for  a  few  minutes ;  add  Ys  tablespoonful  butter,  put  in  the 
roe,  cook  5  minutes  on  each  side ;  then  lift  out  the  roe,  add  1  tea- 
spoonful cornstarch  to  the  gravy,  stir  2  minutes  ;  add  sufficient 
boiling  water  to  make  a  creamy  sauce,  next  Y4  teaspoonful  beef  ex- 
tract, cook  a  few  minutes,  then  strain  and  finish  with  a  small  piece 
of  butter.  Toast  4  small  slices  of  bread,  butter  on  one  side ;  ar- 
range on  a  warm  dish ;  cut  the  roe  into  4  pieces,  lay  1  piece  on  each 
slice  of  toast,  pour  over  the  gravy  and  serve. 


SEA  FOOD,  Etc.  I99 

Sliad^  Baked. ‚Äî Have  a  large  fresh  shad  prepared  for  baking, 
season  with  1  heaping  tablespoonful  salt  and  the  juice  of  1  lemon, 
let  it  lay  30  minutes ;  then  put  4  thin  slices  of  larding  pork  in  a 
baking  pan,  the  fish  on  top,  pour  2  ounces  of  melted  butter  over, 
and  lay  three  thin  slices  of  pork  on  top  the  fish.  Place  the  pan  in 
a  medium-hot  oven  and  bake  till  done ‚Äî about  40  minutes.  When 
done,  remove  it  carefully  to  a  warm  dish,  garnish  with  parsley  and 
1  lemon  cut  lengthwise  into  6  pieces ;  serve  with  melted  butter, 
mustard,  or  egg  sauce. 

8had^  Baked,  with  Filling. ‚Äî Soak  2  slices  of  bread  in  cold 
water  10  minutes,  inclose  in  a  towel,  and  press  out  all  the  water. 
Place  a  saucepan  with  1  tablespoonful  butter  over  the  fire,  add  2 
tablespoonf  uls  fine-chopped  onion,  a  little  bruised  garlic  the  size  of 
a  pea,  cook  and  stir  5  minutes;  add  Yg  cupful  fine-chopped  mush- 
rooms and  the  bread,  continue  stirring  until  the  bread  has  formed 
into  a  smooth  paste,  then  remove  from  fire.  When  cold  mix  it 
with  Y2  pound  fine-chopped  halibut,  season  with  1  teaspoonful  salt, 
Y4  teaspoonful  pepper,  and  1  egg ;  mix  all  well  together.  Split  a 
well-cleaned  shad  down  the  back,  remove  the  roe  and  backbone, 
wash  and  wipe  the  fish  dry,  rubbing  in  and  outside  with  1  heaping 
tablespoonful  salt,  then  sprinkle  over  the  outside  and  inside  the  juice 
of  1  lemon ;  next  put  in  the  forcemeat,  sew  the  fish  together,  and 
let  it  lie  on  a  long  dish  for  30  minutes.  Wash  and  wipe  the  roe 
dry,  season  with  1  even  teaspoonful  salt,  lay  with  1  tablespoonful 
lemon  juice  in  a  covered  dish,  add  1  onion  cut  into  slices  and  2 
sprigs  of  parsley,  cover  and  let  stand  20  minutes ;  then  remove,  lay 
on  a  napkin,  and  roll  each  half  in  thickly  buttered  paper.  Put  4 
slices  of  larding  pork  in  a  roasting  pan,  lay  the  fish  over  it ;  place 
the  roe  in  the  same  pan,  pour  a  little  melted  butter  over  the  shad, 
lay  3  slices  of  pork  on  top,  cover  with  buttered  paper,  and  bake  till 
done  (the  shad  about  45  minutes,  the  roe  30  minutes).  When  ready 
to  serve,  carefully  remove  the  fish  to  a  warm  dish,  garnish  with  the 
roe  cut  into  slices,  1  lemon  cut  lengthwise,  and  parsley ;  then  serve. 


200  SEA  FOOD,  Etc. 

Shad  a  I'Allemande. ‚Äî Select  a  fine  roe  shad,  clean  and  split 
it  down  the  back,  take  out  the  roe,  remove  all  the  bones,  and  cut  it 
in  half  ;  remove  the  skin  and  cut  the  fish  into  12  equal-sized  pieces; 
trim  them  half  heart  shape.  Mix  1  tablespoonful  salt  with  1  tea- 
spoonful  pepper,  sprinkle  this  equally  divided  over  the  fish  on  both 
sides,  brush  each  piece  over  with  melted  butter  or  olive  oil,  drop 
over  the  juice  of  1  lemon,  lay  the  fillets  in  a  covered  dish  with  1 
sliced  onion  and  Y4  bunch  parsley ;  cover  and  stand  30  minutes. 
In  the  meantime  place  a  frying  kettle  with  lard  over  the  fire  ;  beat 
2  eggs  in  a  bowl  until  light ;  wipe  the  fish  fillets  dry  with  a  soft 
towel ;  roll  in  flour,  take  each  piece  separately  on  a  fork,  dip  in  the 
beaten  egg,  shake  it  for  a  second,  drop  into  the  boiling  fat,  and 
fry  to  a  delicate  brown  ;  then  remove,  lay  the  fish  on  blotting  paper 
to  absorb  the  grease,  and  place  it  in  a  warm  place  till  ready  to  serve. 
Place  the  roe  in  a  saucepan  over  the  fire ;  cover  with  cold  water, 
add  Y3  teaspoonful  salt,  a  small  bouquet,  1  small  sliced  onion,  and  1 
teaspoonful  vinegar  or  2  tablespoonfuls  white  wine ;  as  soon  as  it 
begins  to  boil  draw  the  saucepan  to  side  of  stove,  and  after  5  min- 
utes remove  the  roe,  and  drain  it.  Melt  1  tablespoonful  butter  in  a 
small  deep  frying  pan,  put  in  the  roe,  cover  and  cook  8  minutes ; 
turn  it  once  during  that  time.  At  the  same  time  place  in  a  sauce- 
pan 1  pint  of  young  green  peas  (they  should  be  young  and  tender) ; 
add  boiling  water  enough  to  barely  cover ;  add  1  teaspoonful  sugar, 
and  cook  till  tender  ;  then  add  ^/^  teaspoonful  salt,  Y2  tablespoonful 
butter,  and  continue  to  cook  2  minutes,  adding  2  tablespoonfuls 
cream.  Cut  the  shad  roe  into  6  pieces,  arrange  them  in  the  center 
on  a  warm  dish,  pour  over  the  peas,  and  sprinkle  1  teaspoonful  fine- 
chopped  parsley  over ;  lay  the  shad  fillets  in  a  circle  around  the  edge 
of  dish,  1  piece  overlapping  the  other,  and  serve. 

Fillet  of  Shad  ^  la  Romaine. ‚Äî Procure  a  fine  fresh  shad 
weighing  about  4  pounds ;  split  it  down  the  entire  back,  cut  it  in 
half,  remove  all  the  bones ;  cut  the  meat  into  6  square  pieces,  cut 
each  piece  bias  through  the  center  to  make  12  pieces ;  trim  the 


SEA  FOOD,  Etc.  201 

corners  nicely,  season  with  1  tablespoonf  ul  seasoning  salt  evenly  dis- 
tributed over  both  sides  of  the  fish,  sprinkle  over  the  juice  of  1 
lemon,  lay  the  fish  in  a  bowl  with  Y^  bunch  fresh  parsley  and  1  sprig 
of  thyme  ;  cover  and  let  stand  30  minutes  ;  then  remove,  wipe  the 
fillets  dry,  and  dust  lightly  with  flour.  Beat  up  1  egg  in  a  soup- 
plate,  take  each  fillet  separately  on  a  larding  needle,  dip  first  in  the 
egg,  then  roll  in  freshly  grated  bread  crumbs  ;  when  all  are  prepared 
in  this  way  place  a  frying  pan  over  the  fire  with  1  tablespoonful 
lard,  1  tablespoonful  butter  ;  when  hot  put  in  as  many  shad  pieces 
as  will  conveniently  go  in  the  pan,  and  fry  light  brown  on  both 
sides.  In  the  meantime  break  %  pound  of  spaghetti  into  pieces, 
put  it  in  a  saucepan  over  the  fire,  cover  with  boiling  water,  add  Yg 
tablespoonful  salt,  and  boil  till  tender.  Place  a  saucepan  with  1 
tablespoonful  butter  or  olive  oil  over  the  fire,  add  2  tablespoonfuls 
fine-chopped  onion,  Y2  clove  of  bruised  garlic,  cook  5  minutes  with- 
out browning ;  then  add  Ya  cupful  fine-chopped  mushrooms,  stir 
and  cook  5  minutes  longer ;  add  1  can  of  tomatoes,  1  teaspoonful 
salt,  1  even  teaspoonful  pepper,  1  tablespoonful  sugar,  cook  20  min- 
utes, then  strain  ;  drain  the  spaghetti  on  a  sieve,  put  into  a  clean 
saucepan,  add  the  tomatoes,  set  for  a  few  minutes  over  the  fire ;  then 
arrange  the  spaghetti  on  a  warm  dish,  high  in  the  center,  lay  the 
shad  fillets  in  a  circle  around  it,  and  serve. 

Shad  a  I'Castellano. ‚Äî Split  a  large  roe  shad  down  the  back,  re- 
move the  roe,  and  cut  the  fish  in  halves ;  lay  1  side  and  %  the  roe  aside ; 
remove  the  bones  and  skin  from  the  other  half,  cut  it  into  6  pieces ; 
trim  them  half  heart  shape,  sprinkle  over  the  juice  of  Ys  lemon, 
and  1  even  tablespoonful  seasoning  salt ;  lay  the  fillets  in  a  thickly 
buttered  pan,  pour  over  1  ounce  melted  butter,  add  2  tablespoonfuls 
white  wine,  and  6  fine-chopped  small  mushrooms ;  cover  the  fillets 
with  buttered  paper,  and  let  stand  20  minutes  ;  then  set  the  pan  in 
the  oven  and  cook  till  done ‚Äî about  10  minutes.  Fry  6  pieces  of 
bread  of  same  size  as  the  fillets  in  butter  light  brown  on  both  sides, 
lay  them  on  a  warm  dish,  put  a  fillet  on  each  piece,  pour  the  roe, 


202  SEA  FOOD,  Etc. 

which  has  in  the  meantime  been  prepared  as  mentioned  below,  and  the 
sauce  over  all,  and  serve.  Place  the  shad  roe  in  a  saucepan  over  the 
fire,  cover  with  cold  water,  add  1  teaspoonful  salt,  2  slices  of  onion, 
a  small  bouquet,  and  Y2  tablespoonful  vinegar  ;  as  soon  as  it  begins 
to  boil  draw  the  saucepan  to  side  of  stove  and  let  it  remain  5  min- 
utes, then  drain.  Place  a  saucepan  over  the  fire  with  1  tablespoon- 
ful fine-cut  ham,  Yg  tablespoonful  butter,  1  tablespoonful  fine- 
chopped  onion,  the  same  of  chopped  mushrooms,  and,  if  handy,  1 
fine-chopped  truffle,  Yg  teaspoonful  salt,  and  a  little  pepper ;  cook  5 
minutes ;  add  Ys  cupful  white  wine  and  the  boiled  roe,  cover  and 
cook  10  minutes.  At  the  same  time  melt  1  tablespoonful  butter  in 
another  saucepan,  add  1  tablespoonful  flour,  stir  2  minutes,  add  IY2 
cup  milk,  a  little  salt,  nutmeg,  a  small  bouquet,  6  coarsely  pounded 
peppers,  and  a  little  mushroom  liquor  ;  cook  6  minutes,  then  strain. 
Add  the  yolks  of  2  eggs,  mixed  with  Y2  cupful  cream,  break  the  roe 
in  small  pieces  with  a  fork,  pour  over  the  above  cream  sauce,  mix 
all  well  together,  and  use  as  directed  above. 

Salt  Shad,  Boiled. ‚Äî Soak  the  fish  several  hours  in  warm  water. 
One  hour  before  dressing,  take  it  out,  wash,  and  lay  in  fresh  cold 
water ;  then  place  in  a  kettle  over  the  fire,  with  sufficient  water  to 
cover,  and  as  soon  as  it  begins  to  boil  draw  the  kettle  from  the  fire 
and  let  the  fish  simmer  from  20  minutes  to  Ys  hour ;  serve  Avith 
butter  sauce. 

Salt  Shad,  Broiled. ‚Äî If  the  shad  is  to  be  prepared  for  break- 
fast, soak  the  fish  in  warm  water  over  night,  take  out  in  the  morning 
and  put  it  for  15  minutes  into  cold  water ;  wipe  dry,  brush  it  over 
with  melted  butter,  place  on  a  hot  broiler  over  a  moderate  fire,  and 
broil  on  both  sides  light  brown.  Lay  on  a  warm  dish,  and  put 
small  pieces  of  butter  over  it ;  set  the  dish  for  a  few  minutes  in  the 
oven,  and  then  serve. 

SHEEPSHEAD. 
Sheepshead,  Boiled.‚Äî Place  a  well-cleaned  fresh  fish  on  the 
drainer  of  a  fish  kettle,  cover  with  cold  water,  and  add  for  every  quart 


SEA  FOOD,  Etc.  203 

of  water  1  tablespoonf ul  salt,  1  onion,  a  bouquet,  12  whole  peppers ; 
set  the  kettle  over  the  fire,  and  as  soon  as  it  begins  to  boil  remove 
to  side  of  stove,  letting  simmer  till  done.  When  done  and  ready  to 
serve,  lift  the  fish  from  the  kettle,  slide  it  on  to  a  warm  dish,  garnish 
with  parsley,  and  serve  with  Eobert  or  Hollandaise  sauce. 

Sheepshead  a  la  Tartare. ‚Äî Place  a  well-cleaned  sheepshead 
of  from  4  to  5  pounds  on  the  grate  of  fish  kettle ;  add  1  bottle  white 
wine,  a  good  handful  salt,  2  cut  onions,  1  carrot,  a  bouquet,  12 
whole  peppers,  and  sufficient  cold  water  to  cover  the  fish ;  place  the 
kettle  over  the  fire,  and  as  soon  as  it  begins  to  boil  draw  to  side  of 
stove,  and  let  simmer  till  done.  In  the  meantime  prepare  the 
following  sauce :  Melt  in  a  saucepan  V-jz  ounce  Butter,  add  1  heap- 
ing tablespoonf  ul  flour,  stir  and  cook  3  minutes;  add  1  cupful 
chicken  or  veal  broth,  3  sprigs  of  parsley,  6  coarsely  pounded  pep- 
pers, Y2  cupful  fine-chopped  mushrooms,  a  little  of  their  liquor,  Vg 
teaspoonful  beef  extract,  1  cupful  cream  or  milk,  and  1  even  tea- 
spoonful  seasoning  salt,  boiling  slowly  10  minutes.  At  the  same 
time,  place  a  small  saucepan  with  1  tablespoonful  fine-chopped 
onion  and  Y2  tablespoonful  butter  over  the  fire,  cook  5  minutes ; 
add  1  cupful  canned  tomatoes,  season  with  Yg  teaspoonful  seasoning 
salt,  Y2  teaspoonful  sugar,  boil  10  minutes,  then  strain.  Next  strain 
the  sauce  into  a  clean  saucepan,  add  the  tomatoes,  the  juice  of  Y2 
lemon,  and  Y2  tablespoonful  butter  in  small  pieces  ;  set  the  saucepan 
a  few  minutes  over  the  fire  until  hot ;  then  pour  a  little  of  the  sauce 
over  the  fish,  and  serve  the  remaining  in  a  sauce  bowl. 

Sheepshead  a  la  Normande. ‚Äî Boil  a  fresh  fish  of  4  pounds 
as  in  foregoing  recipe  ;  place  1  dozen  large  oysters  in  a  saucepan 
over  the  fire,  with  Y3  cup  of  their  liquor,  add  the  juice  of  Y2  lemon, 
Y2  tablespoonful  butter,  Ys  teaspoonful  seasoning  salt,  and  let  the 
oysters  come  slowly  to  a  boil ;  then  set  aside.  Melt  at  the  same 
time  1  ounce  butter  in  a  saucepan,  add  1  heaping  tablespoonful 
flour,  stir  3  minutes ;  add  Y2  pii^^  small  mushrooms,  Y2  cupful  of  the 
Ion, 
14 


204  SEA  FOOD,  Etc. 

per,  and  a  small  bouquet,  boil  slowly  15  minutes ;  then  remove  the 
bouquet,  mix  the  yolks  of  2  eggs  with  the  juice  of  Yg  lemon,  add 
slowly  to  the  sauce;  add  lastly  Yg  tablespoonful  butter  in  small 
pieces,  and  pour  a  little  of  the  sauce  over  the  oysters.  Arrange  the 
fish  on  a  hot  dish,  garnish  with  potatoes  tortonia,  and  the  oysters ; 
serve  the  sauce  in  a  sauce  bowl  with  the  fish.  If  wine  is  not  handy 
or  is  objected  to,  Ys  cupful  of  white  vinegar  may  be  taken  for  boiling 
the  fish. 

Sheepshead  a  la  Creole.‚Äî Season  a  well-cleaned  3-pound 
sheepshead  with  1  tablespoonful  seasoning  salt ;  lay  the  fish  in  a 
buttered  pan,  pour  over  2  ounces  melted  butter,  put  Yg  cupful  white 
wine  in  the  pan,  cover  with  buttered  paper,  set  the  pan  in  a  hot 
oven  to  bake,  basting  frequently.  At  the  same  time  melt  1  ounce 
butter  or  oil  in  a  saucepan,  add  2  tablespoonfuls  fine-chopped  onion, 
1  fine-chopped  green  pepper  without  the  seed,  1  clove  of  bruised 
garlic,  Ys  cupful  chopped  mushrooms,  stir  and  cook  6  minutes ;  add 
3  fresh  tomatoes  peeled  and  cut  fine,  1  teaspoonful  salt,  and  Ys  even 
teaspoonful  pepper  ;  let  simmer  slowly  until  the  tomatoes  are  done. 
Melt  in  a  small  saucepan  Ys  tablespoonful  butter,  add  Y2  table- 
spoonful flour,  stir  for  a  few  minutes ;  add  1  cupful  boiling  water, 
1  teaspoonful  beef  extract,  cook  a  few  minutes ;  add  it  to  the  other 
ingredients  in  the  first  saucepan,  continue  to  boil  5  minutes.  When 
the  fish  is  done,  remove  carefully  to  a  hot  dish,  pour  the  sauce  over 
it,  and  garnish  with  small  slices  of  bread,  cut  half-heart  shape,  and 
fried  in  butter.  If  wine  is  not  handy,  sprinkle  the  juice  of  1  lemon 
over  the  fish,  and  pour  Y2  cupful  water  in  the  pan.  Weakfish, 
pike,  perch,  and  whitefish  may  be  prepared  the  same  way. 

KINGFISH. 

Where  found,  etc. ‚Äî Kingfish,  of  the  genus  Umhrina,  is  of  a 
dull-gray  color,  with  silvery  reflections  on  the  side  and  irregular 
dark  bars ;  length  16  to  17  inches,  weight  1  to  2  pounds ;  it  is  a 
deep  swimmer,  a  good  table  fish,  and  is  often  called  whiting.     It 


SEA  FOOD,  Etc.  205 

is  rare  on  the  New  England  .coast,  but  common  in  the  waters  of 
the  Middle  States.  In  season  from  May  till  October.  It  is  pre- 
pared in  various  ways,  the  same  as  trout,  carp,  bass,  and  sole. 

Kingflsh  au  Grratin. ‚Äî Eemove  the  fillets  from  3  fresh  fish 
weighing  1  pound  each ;  season  with  salt  and  pepper,  fold  the 
fillets  double,  lay  in  a  buttered  pan,  sprinkle  over  1  fine-chopped 
onion,  Yg  cupful  chopped  mushrooms,  and  pour  some  melted  butter 
over  each  fillet ;  put  Yg  cupful  white  broth  in  the  pan  and  Y2  cupful 
white  wine ;  sprinkle  over  2  tablespoonfuls  bread  crumbs,  set  the 
pan  in  a  hot  oven  and  bake  15  minutes  ;  then  remove  the  fish  to  a 
hot  dish.  Melt  1  tablespoonful  butter  in  a  saucepan  ;  add  1  table- 
spoonful  flour,  stir  and  cook  3  minutes ;  add  1  cupful  white  broth 
and  the  fish  gravy,  cook  a  few  minutes ;  mix  the  yolks  of  2  eggs 
with  the  juice  of  Yg  lemon,  add  slowly  to  the  sauce ;  add  Ys  tea- 
spoonful  beef  extract,  1  even  teaspoonful  seasoning  salt,  and  serve 
with  the  fish  and  boiled  potatoes. 

Fillets  of  Kingflsh  a  la  Tartare.‚Äî Lift  the  fillets  from  a 
medium-sized  fish,  remove  the  skin  and  pare  the  pieces  into  oval 
shapes ;  season  with  salt,  pepper,  and  lemon  Juice ;  let  stand  Ya 
hour,  then  dust  with  flour,  dip  into  beaten  egg,  roll  in  bread  crumbs, 
and  fry  in  hot  fat  to  a  fine  color.  Arrange  the  fish  on  a  hot  dish, 
garnish  with  parsley,  and  serve  with  Tartar  sauce. 

HADDOCK. 
Where  found,  etc.‚Äî A  soft-rayed  fish  of  the  cod  family.  This 
well-known  species  varies  in  length  from  1  to  2  feet,  and  in  weight 
from  2  to  6  pounds.  The  color  is  dark  gray  above  and  silvery  gray 
below.  The  haddock  is  found  everywhere  on  the  American  coast 
from  New  York  to  the  arctic  regions  ;  it  is  an  excellent  fish  when 
eaten  fresh.     The  spawning  time  is  in  early  spring. 

Haddock,  Stuffed  and  Baked.‚Äî Clean  and  wash  a  good- 
sized  fish,  wipe  dry,  and  season  with  salt  and  pepper;  put  1  fine- 
chopped  onion  in  a  saucepan  with  1  tablespoonful  butter,  cook  5 


206  SEA  FOOD,  Etc. 

minutes ;  add  4  fine-cut  peeled  tomatoes,  1  even  teaspoonf ul  pepper, 
1  even  teaspoonful  salt,  cook  5  minutes ;  then  remove  from  fire ; 
when  cold,  mix  it  with  2  cupfuls  bread  crumbs,  1  whole  egg,  and  1 
yolk  ;  fill  this  into  the  fish,  sew  up,  lay  in  a  baking  pan  with  3 
slices  of  larding  pork  under  the  fish ;  sprinkle  over  1  ounce  melted 
butter  and  the  juice  of  1  lemon,  cover  the  fish  with  3  thin  slices  of 
pork,  place  in  a  hot  oven,  bake  and  baste  often  till  done.  Serve 
the  fish  on  a  warm  dish,  with  tomato  sauce  and  boiled  potatoes. 

Fillets  of  Haddock  a  la  Maitre  d'Hotel.‚Äî Eemove  the  skin 
and  bones  from  a  well-cleaned  haddock ;  cut  the  meat  into  small 
slices,  season  with  salt,  pepper,  and  lemon  juice.  Lay  the  slices  in  a 
covered  dish  with  1  or  2  sliced  onions  and  some  fresh  parsley,  cover 
and  let  them  stand  1  hour.  Shortly  before  serving,  wipe  the  fillets 
dry  and  dust  with  flour ;  dip  into  beaten  egg,  roll  in  bread  crumbs, 
and  fry  in  hot  fat  to  a  fine  color.  Arrange  nicely  on  a  hot  dish, 
spread  a  little  maitre  d'hotel  butter  over  each,  and  serve  with  baked 
or  boiled  potatoes. 

Fillets  of  Haddock  a  la  Tartare  Alleraande.‚Äî Remove  the 

skin  and  bones  from  a  fresh  fish ;  cut  the  meat  into  small  slices, 
season  with  salt  and  pepper,  dip  in  beaten  egg  and  cracker  crumbs, 
fry  to  a  fine  color  in  hot  fat ;  serve  on  a  warm  dish  with  sauce  Tar- 
tare a  I'allemande. 

Fillets  of  Haddock  a  la  Normande.‚Äî Prepare  the  fillets  of 
a  fresh  haddock  as  in  foregoing  recipe ;  mix  the  yolks  of  2  eggs 
with  Ya  cup  milk,  a  little  salt,  1  teaspoonful  melted  butter,  2  table- 
spoonfuls  flour,  and  the  2  whites  beaten  to  a  stiff  froth ;  dust  the 
fish  fillets  with  flour,  take  each  one  on  a  fork,  dip  into  the  batter, 
and  fry  to  a  fine  color  in  boiling  fat;  drain  on  blotting  paper. 
Arrange  on  a  warm  dish,  garnish  with  fried  parsley,  and  serve  with 
sauce  Normande. 

Haddock  a  I'ltalieiine. ‚Äî Remove  the  skin  and  bones  from  a 
well-cleaned  haddock ;  cut  the  meat  into  pieces,  so  that  each  piece 
weighs  4  ounces  ;  season  with  salt  and  pepper,  also  lemon  juice  ;  let 


SEA  FOOD,  Etc.  207 

marinate  1  hour.  Then  lay  the  slices  into  a  buttered  pan,  pour 
a  little  melted  butter  over  each  fillet,  cover  with  buttered  paper,  and 
bake  till  done  in  a  hot  oven.  Melt  in  a  saucepan  1  ounce  butter, 
add  1  fine-chopped  onion,  Yg  fine-chopped  green  pepper,  1  bruised 
clove  of  garlic;  cook  6  minutes  without  browning;  then  add  Yg 
can  tomatoes,  Y2  even  tablespoonful  salt,  Y2  even  teaspoonful  pep- 
per, Yg  tablespoonful  sugar,  boil  20  minutes,  serve  the  fish  on  a  warm 
dish,  pouring  the  tomatoes  over,  and  serve  with  boiled  spaghetti 
and  grated  cheese.     In  place  of  butter,  olive  oil  can  be  taken. 

Haddock^  Boiled. ‚Äî Place  a  well  -  cleaned  haddock  on  the 
drainer  in  a  fish  kettle,  cover  with  cold  water ;  add  a  good  handful 
salt,  Y4  cup  of  vinegar,  1  onion,  a  bouquet,  and  12  whole  peppers ; 
as  soon  as  it  begins  to  boil  draw  the  kettle  to  side  of  stove,  letting  it 
simmer  till  done ;  then  lift  the  fish  out  of  kettle,  slide  it  on  to  a 
warm  dish,  and  serve  with  mustard  sauce. 

Haddock,  Baked. ‚Äî Scale  and  clean  a  fish,  stuff  with  forcemeat, 
sew  it  up,  sprinkle  with  salt,  lay  in  a  roasting  pan  with  a  few  slices 
of  pork  under  it  and  some  on  top ;  add  Yg  cupful  water,  set  in  a  hot 
oven,  pour  over  the  juice  of  1  lemon  and  1  ounce  melted  butter,  and 
bake  until  done,  basting  frequently.  Garnish  with  parsley  and  cut 
lemon ;  serve  on  a  warm  dish  with  mustard  sauce. 

Dried  Haddock  {always  in  Seaso7i). ‚ÄîG\x.i  the  dried  fish  into 
pieces,  put  them  in  a  stew  pan  with  a  bouquet,  pour  over  sufiicient 
boiling  water  to  cover,  put  the  cover  on,  and  let  the  fish  remain  in 
the  boiling  water  without  boiling  for  10  or  15  minutes.  Take  out, 
put  on  a  warm  dish,  spread  over  some  butter,  season  with  salt  and 
pepper,  and  serve. 

RED  SNAPPER. 

Where  found,  etc.-^Red  snapper,  of  the  family  ScUrogenidcB, 
attains  a  length  of  from  1  to  2  feet ;  the  color  of  the  living  fish  is  bright 
red  with  a  black  blotch  on  the  posterior  part  of  the  gill  covers.  It 
is  found  on  both  sides  of  the  Atlantic,  and  on  the  American  coast 
from  New  York  to  the  far  North ;  is  called  rose  fish,  perch,  and  red 


208  SEA  FOOD,  Etc. 

snapper,  and  is  abundant  in  Newfoundland,  being  in  season  from 
October  to  May.  It  is  considered  best  when  baked  or  steamed,  or 
can  be  prepared  in  various  ways  the  same  as  perch. 

Red  Snapper  a  la  Bearnaise. ‚Äî Select  a  fresh  fish  6  pounds 
in  weight ;  clean,  wash,  and  wipe  dry ;  season  with  2  tablespoonf uls 
salt,  1  teaspoonf ul  white  pepper,  and  the  juice  of  1  lemon ;  cut  3 
onions  into  slices,  lay  half  the  slices  on  the  drainer  of  a  fish  kettle, 
place  the  fish  on  top  of  it,  lay  the  remaining  slices  inside  and  on 
top ;  add  Yg  bunch  parsley  and  2  sprigs  of  thyme  ;  put  the  drainer  in 
the  fish  kettle,  cover  and  let  it  stand  1  hour.  Lift  the  fish  out  of  the 
kettle,  remove  onions,  parsley,  and  thyme,  lay  4  slices  larding  pork 
in  the  bottom  of  the  kettle,  also  a  few  slices  of  pork  on  top  of  drainer ; 
lay  the  fish  on  top  of  the  pork,  pour  1  ounce  of  butter  over  the  fish, 
and  lay  1  ounce  of  butter  inside  of  fish.  Put  2  tablespoonfuls  lard 
in  the  bottom  of  the  kettle,  cover  the  fish  with  buttered  paper ;  then 
put  on  the  cover,  place  the  kettle  over  a  moderate  fire,  and  cook  slowly 
till  done,  which  will  take  1  hour.  When  ready  to  serve,  slip  the 
fish  on  to  a  warm  dish,  garnish  with  parsley  and  fried  oysters  or 
scallops,  serve  with  sauce  Bearnaise  or  egg  sauce.  (Care  must  be 
taken  not  to  have  the  fire  too  hot ;  the  fish  needs  no  basting  and  no 
water,  and  will  cook  to  perfection  in  the  time  stated.) 

Red  Snapper,  Stuffed  and  Baked.‚Äî Select  a  fish  weighing 
about  5  pounds ;  clean,  wash,  and  dry  it,  season  with  2  tablespoon- 
fuls salt  and  the  juice  of  2  lemons,  letting  it  lie  1  hour.  In  the 
meantime  prepare  the  forcemeat  as  follows :  Place  a  saucepan  with 
1  tablespoonful  butter  over  the  fire,  add  1  finely  chopped  onion,  1 
clove  of  bruised  garlic,  and  fry  this  for  a  few  minutes  ;  add  1  heaping 
tablespoonful  flour,  stir  3  minutes  ;  add  Yg  cupful  meat  broth,  cook 
and  stir  till  thick.  Eemove  from  fire,  and  when  cold  mix  it  with  1 
pound  finely  chopped  fresh  codfish  or  halibut ;  season  with  1  table- 
spoonful salt,  1  teaspoonful  pepper,  a  little  Cayenne,  Yg  cup  of  mush- 
rooms, 1  teaspoonful  English  mustard,  1  tablespoonful  fine-chopped 
parsley,  the  yolks  of  3  eggs  ;  mix  all  well  together ;  then  fill  into  the 


SEA  FOOD,  Etc.  209 

fish,  sew  up.  Lay  the  fish  in  a  long  roasting  pan  with  4  slices  of  larding 
pork  underneath  and  a  few  slices  of  pork  on  top  of  the  fish ;  pour 
over  a  few  spoonfuls  melted  butter ;  place  the  pan  in  oven  and  roast 
till  done ;  then  carefully  remove  to  a  hot  dish,  and  serve  with  sauce 
Hollandaise. 

WHITEBAIT. 

In  season  from  April  to  Septemler. 

A  small  fish  of  the  herring  family;  in  great  repute  with  epi- 
cures ;  it  is  from  3  to  6  inches  long,  pale  ashy  green  above,  sides 
and  lower  parts  unspotted  white  at  all  seasons. 

Whitebait  ^  la  Tartare  AUemande. ‚Äî Prepare  3  pounds  of 
fish  the  same  as  for  broiling.  Mix  the  yolks  of  2  eggs  with  Y2  cup- 
ful milk,  Y4  teaspoonful  salt,  1  teaspoonful  melted  butter,  2  table- 
spoonfuls  flour,  and  the  whites  beaten  to  a  stiff  froth ;  wipe  the  fish 
dry,  dust  with  flour,  dip  in  the  batter,  and  fry  in  boiling  fat ;  serve 
on  a  warm  dish,  garnish  with  parsley,  and  serve  with  sauce  Tartare 
allemande. 

Whitebait,  Fried. ‚Äî Clean,  wash,  and  wipe  the  fish  dry,  sea- 
son with  salt,  roll  in  flour,  and  fry  in  hot  fat.  Dress  on  a  warm 
dish,  add  to  2  ounces  melted  butter,  the  juice  of  1  lemon,  and  1  tea- 
spoonful chopped  parsley ;  pour  this  over  the  flsh,  and  serve  with 
white  and  brown  bread  and  butter,  or  with  German  fried  potatoes. 

Whitebait,  Broiled. ‚Äî Season  the  well-cleaned  fish  with  salt, 
pepper,  and  lemon  juice,  add  1  sliced  onion,  let  marinate  1  hour ; 
then  wipe  dry,  dip  in  melted  butter,  roll  in  fresh  grated  bread 
crumbs,  lay  on  a  hot  broiler,  and  broil  over  a  moderate,  clear  fire  5 
minutes  on  each  side.  Dress  on  a  warm  dish,  spread  a  little  maitre 
d'hotel  butter  over  each  fish,  and  serve  either  with  white  and  brown 
bread  or  French  fried  potatoes.  Another  way  is  to  dust  the  fish 
with  flour,  dip  into  beaten  egg^  roll  in  cracker  crumbs,  and  fry  in 
hot  fat. 


210  SEA  FOOD,  Etc. 

WHITEFISH. 
Where  found,  etc. ‚Äî A  member  of  the  salmon  family,  it  is 
found  in  the  Great  Lakes,  from  Lake  Erie  to  the  Arctic  Sea,  in 
Lake  Champlain,  in  the  small  lakes  of  Canada  connected  with  the 
St.  Lawrence  on  the  south  side,  and  in  the  Mackenzie  and  other 
rivers  flowing  into  the  icy  sea.  It  attains  a  length  of  V-j^  to  2Y2  feet 
and  a  weight  of  3  to  10  pounds,  becoming  very  large  and  fat  in 
the  clear  water  of  Lake  Superior ;  its  general  appearance  is  shad- 
like, whence  it  is  called  lake  shad  at  Burlington,  Vt.  It  is  bluish 
gray  on  the  back,  lighter  on  the  sides,  and  white  below  ;  the  flesh  is 
bluish  white,  changing  to  a  pure  white  when  cooked.  In  October 
it  enters  the  rivers  to  spawn,  returning  in  3  or  4  weeks. 

Whiteflsli,  Broiled.‚Äî Split  a  well-cleaned  white  fish  through 
the  back,  wash  and  wipe  dry ;  brush  over  with  a  little  melted  butter 
or  oil,  lay  the  fish  with  the  meat  side  downward  on  a  broiler,  and 
broil  over  a  clear  fire,  10  minutes  on  the  meat  side  and  5  minutes 
on  the  skin  side.  When  done  remove  the  fish  to  a  hot  dish  ;  mix  2 
ounces  butter  with  1  even  tablespoonful  seasoning  salt,  add  the 
juice  of  Ya  lemon,  spread  this  over  the  fish,  and  serve  with  baked  pota- 
toes and  boiled  tomatoes.     Weakfish  can  be  prepared  the  same  way. 

WEAKFISH. 

In  season  from  the  middle  of  June  to  the  end  of  Octoher. 

Where  found,  etc. ‚Äî A  spiny-rayed  fish,  of  the  genus  Otolithus^ 
resembling  the  perch  ;  the  common  weakfish  is  from  1  to  2  feet 
long.  This  was  formerly  one  of  the  most  common  marine  fishes  in 
Vineyard  and  Long  Island  Sounds,  but  is  now  less  abundant ;  it  has 
been  taken  in  the  Gulf  of  St.  Lawrence  and  the  Gulf  of  Mexico  ;  it 
often  accompanies  the  bass. 

Fish  a  la  Rothschild. ‚Äî Take  either  weakfish  or  carp ;  choose 
a  fish  of  2Y2  pounds,  remove  head  and  tail,  cut  the  fish  into  G  pieces, 
lay  on  a  dish,  sprinkle  over  1  tablespoonful  salt,  let  stand  30  min- 


SEA  FOOD,  Etc.  211 

utes ;  then  place  in  a  saucepan,  cover  with  IY2  pint  water,  Y2  pint 
white  vinegar,  3  fine- cut  onions,  1  bay  leaf,  3  cloves,  8  whole  pep- 
pers, 1  blade  of  mace,  a  handful  of  seedless  raisins,  small  stick  of 
cinnamon,  and  Yg  lemon  cut  into  lengths  or  slices  and  freed  from 
the  pits ;  as  soon  as  it  begins  to  boil  draw  the  saucepan  to  side  of 
stove  and  let  simmer  till  done ;  then  carefully  remove  to  a  warm 
dish.  Mix  IY2  tablespoonful  butter  with  IY2  tablespoonful  flour,  add 
it  to  the  fish  broth,  add  1  tablespoonful  sugar,  stir  and  cook  5  min- 
utes ;  then  strain  into  a  clean  saucepan  ;  return  some  of  the  raisins 
to  the  sauce,  and  pour  it  over  the  fish  ;  serve  with  potato  dumplings 
or  potato  croquettes. 

Fish  a  la  Polonaise. ‚Äî Procure  a  weakfish  weighing  2Y3 
pounds,  clean,  wash,  and  cut  it  into  6  pieces ;  sprinkle  over  1 
tablespoonful  salt,  lay  on  a  dish  and  pour  over  Y2  cup  vinegar ;  let 
stand  Y2  ^ouT ;  then  place  the  fish  with  the  vinegar  in  a  saucepan, 
cover  with  water,  add  1  onion,  6  whole  peppers,  and  a  bouquet,  and 
set  the  saucepan  over  the  fire  ;  as  soon  as  it  commences  to  boil  draw 
to  side  of  stove,  and  let  simmer  till  done,  which  will  take  about  10 
minutes.  Melt  1  tablespoonful  butter  in  a  saucepan,  add  1  table- 
spoonful flour,  stir  for  a  few  minutes ;  add  1  pint  of  the  fish  water, 
1  teaspoonf ul  ground  ginger,  cook  5  minutes ;  remove  the  fish  to 
a  warm  dish,  and  strain  the  gravy  over  it.  Carp  or  bluefish  may  be 
prepared  in  the  same  way. 

Baked  Fish.  ^  la  Rachel. ‚Äî Procure  a  fish  of  3  pounds,  either 
weakfish,  carp,  or  bluefish,  clean  and  cut  into  3-iuch  pieces,  sea- 
son with  1  tablespoonful  salt,  and  let  stand  30  minates.  Chop 
fine  2  good-sized  white  onions  and  cut  Y2  lemon  into  slices,  remov- 
ing pits ;  butter  a  pudding  dish  large  enough  to  receive  the  fish ; 
put  in  a  layer  of  the  fish  pieces,  sprinkle  over  some  of  the  onions, 
add  1  tablespoonful  butter  in  small  pieces  and  1  teaspoonful  cara- 
way seeds  ;  continue  in  this  way  in  alternate  layers  until  all  is  used, 
pour  over  sufficient  vinegar  to  nearly  cover ;  then  bake  in  oven  till 
done  (about  40  minutes),  and  serve  in  the  same  dish. 


212  SEA  FOOD,  Etc. 

Weakfish,  Baked. ‚Äî Clean,  wash,  and  wipe  a  3-pound  fresh 
fish,  season  it  with  1  tablespoonful  seasoning  salt,  sprinkle  over  the 
juice  of  1  lemon,  cut  1  large  onion  into  slices,  and  lay  them  inside 
the  fish ;  cover  and  let  it  stand  1  hour.  Forty  minutes  before  serv- 
ing lay  4  thin  slices  of  pork  in  the  bottom  of  a  roasting  pan,  remove 
the  onions,  and  place  the  fish  on  top  of  the  pork.  Lay  iVz  ounce 
butter  inside  the  fish,  and  pour  1  ounce  melted  butter  all  over ;  cover 
the  top  of  fish  with  3  thin  slices  of  larding  pork,  set  the  pan  in  a  hot 
oven,  and  bake  till  done,  basting  occasionally  with  its  own  gravy. 
When  done  remove  the  fish  carefully  to  a  warm  dish,  garnish  with 
fried  tomatoes,  serve  with  mustard  sauce  and  boiled  potatoes. 

Weakflsh,  Fried. ‚Äî Procure  a  fresh  fish  of  SVg  pounds,  clean, 
wash,  and  split  it  through  the  back,  remove  head  and  tail,  cut  each 
half  into  3  pieces,  season  them  with  1  even  tablespoonful  seasoning 
salt,  let  lie  Yg  hour,  then  roll  the  fish  pieces  in  flour,  and  fry  in  hot 
lard  or  larding  pork,  light  brown  on  both  sides  and  well  done. 
Serve  on  a  warm  dish,  garnish  with  parsley  and  cut  lemon.  Or 
dust  the  fish  with  flour,  then  dip  them  first  into  beaten  egg,  then 
roll  in  cracker  or  bread  crumbs,  and  finish  the  same  as  above. 

Fillets  of  Weakfisll. ‚Äî Clean  and  wash  a  fresh  fish  of  2^/^ 
pounds,  remove  head  and  tail,  split  the  fish  through  the  back,  re- 
move all  the  bones,  and  cut  the  meat  into  6  fillets ;  season  these 
with  1  even  tablespoonful  seasoning  salt,  sprinkle  over  the  juice  of 
Ya  lemon,  and  set  aside.  Twenty  minutes  before  serving  wipe  the 
fillets  dry,  dust  with  flour,  dip  into  beaten  egg,  roll  in  bread  crumbs ; 
lay  the  fillets  on  a  clean  board,  and  pat  them  smooth  with  a  knife. 
Place  a  frying  pan  with  1  ounce  pure  lard  and  1  ounce  butter  over  the 
fire ;  as  soon  as  hot  put  in  as  many  fillets  as  will  conveniently  go  in, 
fry  light  brown  on  both  sides,  adding  more  lard  and  butter  if  neces- 
sary. Arrange  the  fish  on  a  hot  dish,  spread  over  1  ounce  maitre 
d'hotel  butter,  and  serve  with  potatoes  a  la  crtime. 

Weakfish  h  la  Tartare. ‚Äî Remove  the  fillets  from  a  3- 
pound  fresh  fish,  cut  the  fillets  into  6  pieces,  pare  nicely,  and  season 


SEA  FOOD,  Etc.  213 

‚ñÝwith  1  tablespoonf  ul  seasoning  salt ;  dip  the  fillets  into  melted  but- 
ter, roll  in  bread  crumbs,  lay  on  a  broiler,  and  broil  over  a  moderate 
clear  fire  6  minutes  on  both  sides  or  till  done.  Arrange  the  fillets 
nicely  on  a  hot  dish,  garnish  with  parsley  and  potatoes  a  la  patricia, 
and  serve  with  sauce  Tartare. 

PERCH. 

Li  season  from  September  to  May. 

"Where  found,  etc. ‚Äî Perch  belongs  to  the  Percidm^  a  very  ex- 
tensive family  of  acanthopterous  fishes ;  14  species,  all  fresh- water 
fishes,  are  described.  The  yellow  perch  attains  a  length  of  12  to  15 
inches  and  a  weight  of  273  pounds,  though  most  specimens  are 
below  10  inches  ;  it  is  generally  distributed  in  the  lakes,  ponds,  and 
streams  of  the  Northern  and  Middle  States  and  of  the  British 
provinces.  It  is  easily  taken  with  the  hook  or  net,  and  is  an  excel- 
lent fish  for  the  table.  Salt-water  perch  varies  exceedingly  in  size 
and  color,  being  from  6  to  16  inches  long ;  it  is  an  excellent  pan 
fish,  and  is  taken  in  great  numbers  from  June  to  October.  There 
are  26  species  of  sea  perch  belonging  to  the  genus  Serranus. 

Perch  broiled  a  I'Americaine.‚Äî Scale,  clean,  wash,  and 
dry  the  fish ;  if  large,  split  in  two  and  broil  over  a  clear  fire  ;  when 
done  remove  to  a  warm  dish.  Stir  2  ounces  of  butter  with  1  even 
tablespoonful  salt  and  Y3  teaspoonful  white  pepper  to  a  cream, 
spread  it  over  the  fish,  set  the  dish  for  a  minute  in  a  hot  oven,  and 
serve  ;  garnish  with  cut  lemon  and  green  parsley. 

Percll  broiled  ^  la  Fran^aise. ‚Äî Remove  all  skin  and  bones 
from  a  good-sized  fish,  cut  the  meat  into  2V3-inch-long  pieces,  pare 
them  nicely,  season  with  salt  and  lemon  juice,  lay  some  slices  of 
onion  and  parsley  between  them,  cover,  and  set  aside  1  hour.  Then 
wipe  the  pieces  dry,  dip  into  melted  butter,  then  into  fine  bread 
crumbs,  lay  on  a  hot  broiler,  and  broil  over  a  slow  fire  on  both  sides 
light  brown  and  well  done.  Serve  with  tomato  sauce,  or  lay  them 
on  a  round  dish  like  a  border  and  pour  in  the  center  a  ragout  of 


214  SEA  FOOD,  Etc. 

oysters  or  lobster  ;  or  serve  with  any  other  kind  of  sauce.     All  fish 
of  delicate  meat  may  be  prepared  the  same  way. 

Perch  stewed  a  I'Anglaise. ‚Äî Clean,  wash,  and  dry  the  fish ; 
lay  in  a  stewpan,  add  salt,  a  bouquet,  some  whole  pepper,  1  clove 
of  bruised  garlic,  half  water  and  half  sherry  wine  enough  to  cover 
the  fish  ;  stew  slowly  till  tender.  When  done  take  the  fish  out,  lay 
on  a  long  dish ;  thicken  the  gravy  with  a  piece  of  butter  rolled  in 
flour;  strain,  add  1  tablespoonful  anchovy  essence,  and  pour  over 
the  fish. 

Perch,  Fried. ‚Äî Scale  and  clean  the  fish  and,  if  small,  fry  whole ; 
if  large,  split  it  and  cut  each  side  in  2  pieces,  sprinkle  with  salt, 
roll  in  flour,  and  fry  in  hot  lard  or  pork.  Or  dip  into  beaten  egg 
and  then  in  cracker  dust  or  bread  crumbs,  and  fry. 

Perch  a  la  Maitre  d'Hotel. ‚Äî After  the  flsh  is  cleaned  remove 
skin  and  bones,  cut  the  meat  into  2-inch-square  pieces,  shape,  and 
lay  them  in  a  thickly  buttered  pan ;  season  with  salt  and  lemon 
juice  and  cover  with  buttered  paper.  Shortly  before  serving,  set  the 
pan  in  the  oven  and  bake  until  done ;  lay  the  fish  for  a  few  minutes 
on  white  blotting  paper  to  absorb  the  butter.  Serve  on  a  warm  dish 
with  sauce  a  la  maitre  d'hotel  poured  over.  All  fish  of  delicate 
meat  can  be  prepared  in  the  same  way. 

Perch  a  la  Polonaise. ‚Äî After  the  fish  has  been  well  washed 
and  cleaned  pour  over  some  vinegar,  put  it  into  a  fish  kettle  of  boiling 
salted  water  to  which  a  little  vinegar  has  been  added.  When  boil- 
ing again  draw  the  kettle  to  the  side  of  stove  and  let  it  stand  half 
covered  about  10  to  20  minutes,  until  done.  W'hen  done  lay  the  fish 
on  a  warm,  long  dish ;  chop  fine  2  hard-boiled  eggs,  add  them  to  4 
ounces  melted  butter,  the  juice  of  Yg  lemon,  1  teaspoonful  fine- 
chopped  parsley,  and  Yg  teaspoonful  nutmeg ;  pour  this  over  the  fish 
and  serve. 

Fillets  de  Perches  ^  la  Tilleroi. ‚Äî Remove  the  skin  and 
bones  of  a  well-cleaned  fish,  cut  the  meat  into  small  fillets  about  2 
inches  square,  sprinkle  with  a  little  salt,  and  fry  slowly  in  butter 


SEA  FOOD,  Etc.  215 

half  done.  After  cooling  off  dip  each  piece  first  into  thickly 
boiled  Villeroi  sauce,  then  in  fine  bread  crumbs,  next  in  beaten  egg, 
and  lastly  into  fine  bread  crumbs  again ;  fry  them  in  boiling  fat  to 
a  fine  golden  color.  Lay  the  fillets  for  a  few  minutes  on  blotting 
paper  to  absorb  the  grease ;  serve  on  a  warm  dish  and  garnish  with 
fried  parsley.  All  fish  of  delicate  meat  may  be  prepared  in  the  same 
way. 

Percli  au  Gratin. ‚Äî Clean,  wash,  and  dry  the  fish,  lay  in  thick- 
ly buttered  pan,  season  with  salt,  add  1  pint  of  white  wine,  cover 
with  buttered  paper,  put  the  pan  over  the  fire  ;  as  soon  as  it  boils 
set  in  the  oven  and  baste  frequently.  Chop  fine  3  onions,  6  mush- 
rooms, and  1  tablespoonful  chopped  parsley,  stew  in  1  ounce  butter 
10  minutes ;  put  half  of  this  in  a  round  dish  and  lay  the  fish  over 
it.  Add  to  the  remaining  mushrooms  and  onions  a  few  spoonfuls 
Spanish  sauce  and  a  little  of  the  fish  gravy ;  pour  it  over  the  dish, 
cover  with  bread  crumbs,  pour  a  little  melted  butter  over,  and  bake 
a  few  minutes  in  a  hot  oven ;  then  serve  with  Spanish  sauce.  Pike 
and  other  fish  may  be  prepared  in  the  same  way. 

Fillets  of  Percli  a  la  Joinville. ‚Äî Clean,  wash,  dry,  and  skin 
the  fish,  remove  the  bones,  cut  the  meat  into  small  fillets,  shape 
them,  and  put  over  one  side  a  thin  layer  of  fish  forcemeat  to  which 
some  fine  herbes  and  fine-minced  boiled  beef's  tongue  have  been 
added  ;  pack  it  even  with  a  knife,  lay  the  fish  in  a  thickly  buttered 
pan,  and  cover  with  a  buttered  paper.  About  15  minutes  before 
serving  set  the  pan  in  a  hot  oven  and  bake  until  the  fish  is  done. 
Arrange  the  fillets  in  a  circle  on  a  warm  dish,  pour  in  the  center  lYg 
pint  of  boiled  asparagus  tops,  pour  over  1  pint  of  sauce  veloutee, 
and  serve. 

Perch  with  Oysters. ‚Äî Eemove  the  skin  and  bones  of  a  me- 
dium-sized perch,  cut  the  meat  into  small  fillets  about  2V2  inches 
square,  shape  them  nicely ;  sprinkle  with  salt,  dip  in  beaten  egg  and 
powdered  cracker,  and  fry  in  butter  light  brown  ;  arrange  on  a 
dish  in  the  form  of  a  border,  and  pour  in  the  center  an  oyster  ragout. 


216  SEA  FOOD,  Etc. 

Fillets  of  Perch  Frite. ‚Äî Have  a  good-sized  perch  cleaned  and 
washed,  remove  skin  and  bones,  cut  the  meat  into  small  fillets  about 
2  inches  square ;  season  with  salt,  pepper,  and  lemon  juice,  and  set 
aside  20  minutes.  Before  serving  wipe  the  fillets  dry  and  roll  in 
flour ;  beat  up  2  eggs,  take  each  piece  separately  on  a  fork,  dip  in 
the  egg  and  drop  into  boiling  lard ;  fry  to  a  delicate  brown.  Lay  them 
on  blotting  paper,  and  serve  on  a  napkin  with  lobster  or  crab  sauce. 
Sole,  pike,  weakfish,  and  flounders  may  be  prepared  in  the  same  way. 

Perch  a  la  Bechamel. ‚Äî Scale,  clean,  and  wash  a  medium- 
sized  fish,  remove  skin  and  bones,  cut  the  meat  into  pieces  about 
2Y2  inches  square,  season  with  salt,  and  lay  in  a  thickly  buttered 
pan ;  pour  over  the  juice  of  1  lemon  and  2  ounces  melted  butter ; 
set  in  a  hot  oven  to  bake.  As  soon  as  done  take  them  out ;  add  to 
the  gravy  1  pint  of  bechamel  sauce,  boil  until  the  sauce  is  somewhat 
thick  ;  beat  up  the  yolks  of  2  eggs  with  a  little  cream,  and  add  to 
the  sauce.  Put  a  layer  of  fish  forcemeat  in  a  deep  pie  dish,  bake  it 
in  the  oven  about  10  minutes  ;  lay  half  of  the  fish  on  to  the  force- 
meat, pour  some  of  the  sauce  over,  then  the  remaining  half  of  the 
fish  and  some  more  sauce;  sprinkle  thickly  with  grated  Parmesan 
cheese,  drop  a  little  melted  butter  over,  and  bake  in  the  oven  until 
light  brown ;  then  serve.  Pike,  weakfish,  sole,  or  flounder  can  be 
prepared  in  the  same  way. 

PIKE. 

In  season  from  Septemher  to  April. 

Where  found,  etc. ‚Äî Pike  is  the  common  name  of  the  soft- 
rayed  abdominal  fishes  of  the  family  Esocidce.  Their  principal  loca- 
tion is  in  North  America,  only  one  species  being  found  in  Europe 
and  in  the  temperate  zone  in  Asia ;  it  is  confined  to  fresh  water, 
and  to  the  northern  hemisphere.  The  body  is  elongated  and  scaly ;  it 
rarely  exceeds  3  feet  in  length  or  a  weight  of  12  to  20  pounds ;  young 
pikes  or  pickerels  are  of  a  greenish  hue,  their  color  varying  at  all 
ages.  The  pike  inhabits  most  of  the  rivers  and  lakes  in  Europe. 
The  common  pike  of  the  Northern  States  attains  a  length  of  1  to  2 


SEA  FOOD,  Etc.  217 

feet ;  the  long  or  shovel-nosed  pickerel  attains  a  length  of  1  to  2 
feet.  The  color  varies  in  different  localities,  but  the  body  is  mostly 
greenish  above  and  golden  yellow  on  the  sides. 

Pike,  Boiled. ‚Äî Select  a  fresh  fish  weighing  from  3  to  4  pounds, 
clean  and  wash  it,  lay  it  on  the  drainer  in  a  fish  kettle,  cover  with 
cold  water ;  add  2  tablespoonf uls  salt,  Yi  cup  white  vinegar,  1  fine- 
cut  onion,  a  bouquet,  and  13  whole  peppers  ;  set  the  kettle  over  the 
fire ;  as  soon  as  it  begins  to  boil,  draw  the  kettle  to  side  of  stove, 
and  let  simmer  till  the  fish  is  done  ;  then  lift  the  pike  out  of  kettle, 
slide  it  on  to  a  warm  dish ;  garnish  with  parsley  and  cut  lemon. 
Serve  with  horseradish  or  mustard  sauce. 

Pike,  Collared. ‚Äî Scale  and  clean  the  pike,  and  fasten  its  tail 
in  its  mouth  by  means  of  a  skewer ;  lay  it  in  a  thickly  buttered  pan, 
sprinkle  with  salt ;  add  Yg  pint  white  wine,  1  bay  leaf,  a  little  thyme, 
and  2  onions.  Set  the  pan  in  the  oven,  baste  freely,  and  let  the  fish 
bake  until  done  ;  serve  with  oyster  sauce. 

Pike,  stewed. ‚Äî Take  a  fresh  fish  weighing  3  pounds,  clean, 
wash,  and  cut  it  into  pieces;  season  with  1  heaping  tablespoonf ul 
salt,  and  let  it  lie  1  hour.  Place  the  fish  in  a  saucepan,  add  1  pint 
white  wine,  1  pint  water,  3  fine-cut  onions,  2  bay  leaves,  4  cloves,  6 
whole  peppers,  1  lemon  cut  into  slices  and  freed  from  the  pits ; 
place  over  the  fire ;  as  soon  as  it  commences  to  boil,  draw  the  sauce- 
pan to  side  of  stove,  and  let  simmer  slowly  (about  15  minutes)  till 
done.  Remove  the  fish  to  a  warm  dish ;  melt  2  ounces  butter  in  a 
saucepan,  add  1  tablespoonf  ul  flour,  stir  and  cook  3  minutes ;  strain 
the  fish  broth,  add  to  the  butter  and  flour,  boil  5  minutes ;  mix  the 
yolks  of  2  eggs  with  1  tablespoonful  sugar,  add  a  little  of  the  sauce 
to  the  yolks,  then  add  the  yolks  to  the  sauce,  and  pour  it  over  the 
fish.     Perch  or  weakfish  can  be  prepared  in  the  same  way. 

Pike  Farci. ‚Äî Procure  a  medium-sized  fresh  pike,  clean  and 
wash  it,  split  the  fish  through  the  back,  remove  the  back  bone,  wash 
and  wipe  it  dry;  season  the  fish  inside  with  salt,  and  set  aside. 
Melt  1  ounce  of  butter  in  a  saucepan,  add  1  fine-chopped  onion, 


218  SEA  FOOD,  Etc. 

cook  3  minutes ;  then  add  Y2  cupful  fine-cut  mushrooms,  and  3  fine- 
cut  boneless  anchovies,  cook  and  stir  3  minutes;  add  Y2  cupful 
bread  which  has  been  soaked  and  pressed  out  in  cold  water ;  stir 
until  the  bread  has  formed  into  a  smooth  paste.  Kemove,  and  when 
cold  mix  with  the  yolk  of  1  egg  and  1  whole  egg,  Y2  pound  fine- 
chopped  fish  meat,  either  of  bass,  white  fish,  or  pickerel ;  season 
with  1  even  teaspoonful  salt,  Y4  teaspoonful  pepper,  1  teaspoonful 
chopped  parsley.  Stuff  the  pike  with  this  forcemeat,  sew  it  up ; 
remove  the  skin  from  one  side  of  the  fish,  lard  the  exposed  meat 
with  small  strips  of  larding  pork,  sprinkle  over  some  pepper  and  salt. 
Lay  the  fish  on  a  drainer  into  a  deep  baking  pan,  with  a  few  slices  of 
larding  pork  under  the  fish  ;  add  1  onion  cut  in  slices,  1  bouquet,  6 
whole  peppers,  1  pint  red  wine,  and  1  pint  of  white  broth ;  cover 
with  buttered  paper,  place  the  pan  in  .a  hot  oven,  and  baste  fre- 
quently. When  nearly  done,  remove  the  paper,  continue  the  bak- 
ing and  basting  until  the  fish  is  brown  and  glossy.  Then  lift  the 
fish  out  of  the  pan,  slide  on  to  a  warm  dish,  garnish  with  baked  toma- 
toes stuffed  with  rice  and  small  glazed  onions.  Serve  with  horse- 
radish or  mustard  sauce. 

Pike^  Stuifed  and  Baked.‚Äî Select  a  medium-sized  fresh  fish, 
clean,  wash,  and  wipe  it  dry ;  season  with  salt  and  pepper ;  fill  with 
well-seasoned  forcemeat,  sew  up.  Truss  the  pike  into  the  shape  of 
the  letter  S  ;  make  2  incisions  on  each  side,  lay  in  a  roasting  pan, 
with  3  thin  slices  of  larding  pork  underneath ;  pour  over  the  juice 
of  1  lemon  and  2  ounces  melted  butter ;  add  Y2  carrot  cut  into 
slices,  a  bouquet,  1  sliced  onion,  Ys  cupful  broth  (or  boiling  water 
with  a  little  beef  extract),  Ys  cupful  white  wine  or  claret ;  cover  the 
pike  with  buttered  paper ;  set  the  pan  in  a  hot  oven,  basting  fre- 
quently. When  done,  lift  out  of  pan,  lay  on  a  hot  dish  ;  strain  the 
gravy.  Melt  1  tablespoonful  butter,  add  1  tablespoonful  flour,  stir 
for  a  few  minutes ;  add  1  cupful  boiling  water,  1  teaspoonful  beef 
extract,  the  strained  fish  gravy,  boil  5  minutes  ;  add  the  juice  of  Y2 
lemon,  a  small  piece  of  butter,  and  a  little  Cayenne  pepper  (if  the 


SEA  FOOD,  Etc.  219 

sauce  is  too  tliick,  add  more  boiling  water  or  broth) ;  if  necessary, 
add  more  salt ;  pour  a  little  of  the  sauce  over  the  fish,  and  serve  the 
remaining  in  a  sauce  bowl.  Weakfish,  haddock,  and  bluefish  may 
be  prepared  in  the  same  way. 

Pike  with  Sauerliraut. ‚Äî Wash  1  quart  sauerkraut  in  cold 
water,  place  it  in  a  saucepan  over  the  fire,  add  %  cupful  lard,  cover 
with  boiling  water,  and  boil  till  done.  In  the  meantime  split  a  well- 
cleaned  3-pound  pike  through  the  back,  remove  the  skin  and  bones, 
cut  the  meat  into  2-inch  pieces;  season  with  salt  and  pepper; 
dip  the  pieces  into  beaten  egg,  roll  in  fine  bread  crumbs,  and  fry 
light  brown  in  butter.  When  the  sauerkraut  is  done,  pour  it  into 
a  sieve,  drain  off  the  water ;  return  the  kraut  to  saucepan,  add  1 
tablespoonful  butter  and  Yg  cupful  white  wine ;  set  the  saucepan 
over  the  fire  and  cook  10  minutes.  Butter  a  pudding  dish,  put  in  a 
layer  of  sauerkraut,  then  a  layer  of  fish ;  continue  in  alternate  layers 
till  all  is  used  ;  let  the  last  layer  be  kraut.  Mix  3  well-beaten  eggs 
with  Ya  piiit  of  sour  cream,  pour  over  the  kraut ;  sprinkle  over  3 
tablespoonfuls  bread  crumbs  and  a  little  melted  butter.  Set  in  hot 
oven  and  bake  light  brown  ;  serve  with  boiled  potatoes.  ' 

Fillets  of  Pike  a  la  Mariniere.‚Äî Eemove  the  fillets  from  2 
small  fish,  cut  them  into  6  or  8  pieces,  season  with  1  even  table- 
spoonful  seasoning  salt  and  the  juice  of  1  lemon.  Lay  the  fillets 
in  a  buttered  pan,  pour  over  each  a  little  melted  butter,  cover  with 
buttered  paper,  and  set  for  1  hour  in  a  cool  place.  Prepare  a  fish 
essence  of  the  heads  and  bones  (see  Essence).  Twenty  minutes  be- 
fore serving,  place  in  a  hot  oven,  and  bake  till  done ;  then  remove 
the  fillets  to  a  warm  dish,  add  1  tablespoonful  flour  to  the  fish 
gravy,  stir  for  a  few  minutes  over  the  fire ;  add  1  cupful  white  broth, 
Ys  cupful  of  the  fish  essence ;  add  Y2  can  small  mushrooms,  and  cook 
^  slowly  10  minutes ;  then  add  1  pint  of  prepared  shrimps,  the  juice 
of  Ys  lemon,  a  small  piece  of  butter,  and  1  teaspoonful  fine-chopped 
parsley.  Boil  at  the  same  time  12  small  forcemeat  balls  in  salted 
water,  pour  the  above  preparation  in  the  center  of  a  warm  dish, 
15 


220  SEA  FOOD,  Etc. 

add  the  forcemeat  balls,  and  lay  the  fish  fillets  in  a  circle  around 
the  ragout. 

Fillets  of  Pike  with  Fines  Herbes. ‚Äî Remove  the  skin  and 
bones  from  2  small  pikes,  cut  the  meat  into  6  or  8  fillets,  season  with 
1  even  tablespoonful  seasoning  salt,  lay  in  a  buttered  pan  ;  sprinkle 
over  the  juice  of  1  lemon,  2  tablespoonfuls  fine-chopped  onion,  the 
same  of  mushrooms ;  pour  2  ounces  melted  butter  over  the  fillets, 
cover  with  buttered  paper ;  place  the  pan  in  a  hot  oven,  baste  fre- 
quently, and  bake  till  done.  In  the  meantime  place  the  fish  bones 
in  a  saucepan  over  the  fire,  add  Yg  cupful  white  wine,  or  Y4  cup  of 
vinegar,  a  little  salt,  1  fine-cut  onion,  13  whole  peppers,  2  cloves,  a 
sprig  of  thyme,  and  1  pint  cold  water,  boil  Yg  hour,  then  strain. 
Shortly  before  serving,  remove  the  fish  to  a  warm  dish,  add  to  the 
gravy  in  pan  1  heaping  tablespoonful  flour,  stir  and  cook  on  top 
the  stove  for  a  few  minutes ;  add  1  cupful  white  broth  and  1  cup- 
ful of  the  fish  broth,  cook  5  minutes  (if  too  thick  add  a  little  more 
broth) ;  pour  a  little  of  the  sauce  over  each  fillet  and  serve  the  re- 
mainder in  a  sauce  bowl  with  the  fish. 

Pike  Pastete. ‚Äî Clean  and  wash  a  medium  sized  fish,  remove 
skin  and  bones,  cut  the  meat  into  lYs-inch-square  pieces;  sprinkle 
with  salt  and  pej)per,  fine-chopped  parsley,  and  lemon  juice,  and  set 
aside  for  1  hour.  Melt  a  piece  of  butter  in  a  pan,  put  the  fish 
pieces  in,  and  fry  half  done.  Prepare  some  fish  forcemeat.  Re- 
move skin  and  bones  of  1  small  pike,  mince  the  meat  fine ;  melt  Y4 
pound  butter,  add  2  penny  rolls  previously  soaked  and  pressed  out 
in  cold  water,  stir  for  5  minutes  over  the  fire;  when  cold,  mix  it 
with  the  fish,  add  2  whole  eggs  and  the  yolks  of  2,  IY2  tablespoon- 
ful anchovy  butter  (or  6  fine-minced  anchovies),  3  tablespoonfuls 
Parmesan  cheese ;  season  with  salt  and  pepper.  Butter  a  deep  pie 
dish,  lay  the  forcemeat  and  fish  in  the  dish  alternately  in  layers,  and 
cover  with  rich  pie  crust ;  cut  in  the  center  a  hole ;  place  the  pie  in 
the  oven  and  bake  1  hour.  (If  the  pie  should  be  too  brown,  cover 
with  buttered  paper).     When  done  draw  the  pie  to  front  of  oven; 


SEA  FOOD,  Etc.  221 

have  ready  1  pint  of  caper  sauce,  and '  pour  it  into  the  hole  of  the 
top  crust ;  let  the  pie  remain  a  few  minutes,  and  then  serve.  In 
place  of  pike,  any  other  fish  may  be  taken. 

POMPANO. 

Seasonable  in  May,  June,  July,  Novemher,  and  December. 

Pompano,  its  Description. ‚Äî One  of  the  best  table  fish  that 
we  have  in  the  market ;  it  may  be  prepared  in  different  ways,  the 
same  as  carp,  trout,  perch,  flounders,  and  sole. 

Pompano  a  I'AlIemande. ‚Äî Eemove  the  fillets  from  a  medium- 
sized  fish,  cut  and  pare  into  6  oval-shaped  pieces;  season  with  salt 
and  pepper,  place  in  a  buttered  pan ;  add  Vs  piii^  white  wine,  1 
small  onion,  a  bouquet,  6  whole  peppers ;  cover  with  buttered  paper 
and  bake  in  a  hot  oven,  basting  frequently.  Melt  1  tablespoonful 
butter  in  a  saucepan ;  add  1  tablespoonful  flour,  stir  and  cook  3 
minutes ;  add  1  cupful  white  broth,  Yg  cupful  of  the  fish  gravy,  y^ 
cup  of  mushroom  liquor,  a  small  bouquet,  6  coarsely  pounded  pep- 
pers, 1  even  teaspoonf ul  salt,  and  cook  6  minutes ;  then  strain  into 
a  clean  saucepan ;  mix  the  yolks  of  2  eggs  with  Y4  cupful  cream, 
add  it  slowly  to  the  sauce ;  add  lastly  1  tablespoonful  lemon  juice. 
When  the  fillets  are  done,  arrange  them  on  a  warm  dish  and  pour 
over  the  sauce.  Serve  with  mashed  potatoes,  or  garnish  the  dish  with 
potato  croquettes.  All  fish  with  delicate  meat  can  be  prepared  in 
the  same  way. 

Pompano  Teronitia. ‚Äî Eemove  the  fillets  from  3  fresh  pom- 
panoes  of  IY2  pound  each ;  season  with  salt,  pepper,  and  lemon 
juice ;  put  for  1  hour  in  a  covered  dish  with  1  sliced  onion,  2  sprigs 
of  thyme,  Y3  bunch  parsley,  1  clove  of  garlic.  Twenty  minutes  be- 
fore serving,  wipe  the  fillets  dry,  fold  double,  dip  in  beaten  e^g,  roll 
in  fresh  bread  crumbs.  Lay  the  fillets  in  a  thickly  buttered  pan, 
pour  over  2  ounces  melted  butter  and  the  juice  of  1  lemon ;  cover 
with  buttered  paper,  set  the  pan  in  a  hot  oven,  and  bake  till  done. 
Put  Ys  pint  of  canned  tomatoes  in  a  saucepan,  add  1  teaspoonf  ul 


222  SEA  FOOD,  Etc. 

butter,  Y4  teaspoonful  pepper,  the  same  of  salt  aud  sugar,  cook  10 
minutes ;  then  strain.  Place  in  another  small  saucepan  1  fine-cut 
onion,  3  tablespoonfuls  tarragon  vinegar,  8  coarsely  pounded  pep- 
pers, set  the  saucepan  over  the  fire,  and  reduce  by  boiling  till  nearly 
dry ;  then  remove  from  fire.  When  cold  add  the  yolks  of  4  eggs, 
set  the  saucepan  in  hot  water,  add  4  ounces  butter  in  small  pieces, 
and  stir  constantly ;  add  4  tablespoonfuls  water,  1  teaspoonful  beef 
extract,  1  even  teaspoonful  salt ;  set  the  saucepan  over  the  fire  and 
stir  till  the  sauce  begins  to  thicken ;  then  strain  through  a  sieve, 
add  the  strained  tomatoes  and  3  tablespoonfuls  of  whipped  cream  ; 
pour  the  sauce  on  to  a  warm  dish,  arrange  the  fillets  over  it,  and 
serve  with  French  fried  potatoes ;  or  garnish  with  small  slices  of 
bread  fried  in  butter.  Carp,  trout,  perch,  and  red  snapper  may  be 
prepared  in  the  same  way. 

BLUEFISH. 

In  season  from  the  heginning  of  May  to  the  end  of  September. 

Blueflshj  Baked. ‚Äî Clean,  wash,  and  wipe  a  fresh  4-pound 
bluefish,  season  inside  and  outside  with  salt  and  pepper ;  lay  in  a 
dish  with  two  onions  cut  into  slices,  Ys  bunch  parsley,  the  juice  of  1 
lemon,  cover,  and  let  it  lie  1  hour ;  then  remove,  fill  with  fish  force- 
meat, sew  up,  and  place  in  a  baking  pan  with  a  few  slices  of  lard- 
ing pork  under  it,  pour  over  2  ounces  melted  butter,  and  lay  3  thin 
slices  of  pork  on  top  of  the  fish ;  cover  with  buttered  paper,  and 
place  the  pan  in  a  hot  oven  to  bake,  baste  occasionally  with  its  own 
gravy.  When  done  remove  the  fish  carefully  to  a  warm  dish,  gar- 
nish with  parsley,  and  serve  with  boiled  potatoes  and  sauce  Holland- 
aise  or  ^^g  sauce. 

Blueflsh,  Fried. ‚Äî Split  a  well-cleaned  bluefish  through  the 
back,  cut  each  half  into  3  pieces,  season  with  1  tablespoonful  sea- 
soning salt,  letting  lie  V2  hour ;  then  roll  the  fish  in  flour ;  melt  1 
tablespoonful  lard  or  fat  in  a  frying  pan,  when  hot  put  in  as  many 
fish  pieces  as  will  conveniently  lie  in  the  pan,  and  fry  light  brown 


SEA  FOOD,  Etc.  223 

on  both  sides ;  when  all  are  fried  arrange  them  on  a  hot  dish,  and 
serve  with  French  fried  potatoes  and  mustard  sauce,  or  without  any 
sauce.     Bluefish  fried  in  larding  pork  is  excellent. 

Broiled  Blueflsli  with  Butter  a  rAllemande.‚Äî Split  a 

well-cleaned  bluefish  of  3  pounds  through  the  back,  wash,  and. 
wipe  it  dry,  brush  each  half  over  with  melted  butter,  lay  the  fish  on 
a  hot  broiler  with  the  meat  side  toward  the  fire,  and  broil  over  clear 
moderate  fire  10  minutes ;  then  turn  and  broil  5  minutes  on  the 
other  side.  In  the  meantime  mix  2  ounces  butter  with  1  even 
tablespoonful  seasoning  salt,  1  tablespoonful  lemon  juice,  and  1 
teaspoonful  fine-chopped  parsley.  Arrange  the  fish  on  a  warm  dish, 
spread  the  butter  over,  and  serve  with  baked  potatoes. 

Blueflsli  a  la  Bearnaise. ‚Äî Split  a  well-cleaned  bluefish  of 
3  pounds  in  weight  through  the  back,  remove  the  skin  and  bones, 
cut  the  meat  into  6  pieces,  season  them  with  1  even  tablespoonful 
salt,  sprinkle  over  the  juice  of  1  lemon,  and  set  the  fish  aside  for  1 
hour.  In  the  meantime  prepare  a  sauce  Bearnaise,  and  place  it  in  a 
warm  place.  Wipe  the  fish  dry  with  a  napkin,  and  dust  lightly  with 
flour  ;  have  2  well-beaten  eggs  in  a  soupplate,  take  each  piece  of  fish 
separately  on  a  fork,  dip  into  beaten  egg,  then  in  fresh  rolled 
cracker  crumbs  ;  when  the  pieces  are  prepared  lay  on  a  clean  board 
and  pat  smooth  with  a  knife.  Place  a  frying  pan  with  2  ounces 
lard  or  beef  fat  over  the  fire ;  when  hot  put  in  some  of  the  fish 
pieces,  and  fry  light  brown  on  both  sides  over  moderate  fire  ;  when 
all  are  done  pour  the  sauce  on  a  warm  dish,  and  arrange  the  fish 
over  it.  Serve  with  potatoes  a  la  Parisienne.  Bluefish  prepared  in 
this  way  may  also  be  served  with  Tartar  sauce. 

Blueflsh  en  Papillotes. ‚Äî Clean,  wash,  and  wipe  a  3-pound 
bluefish,  split  through  the  back,  remove  the  bones,  and  cut  each 
side  into  3  pieces ;  season  with  1  tablespoonful  seasoning  salt, 
sprinkle  over  the  juice  of  1  lemon,  lay  the  pieces  in  a  covered  dish, 
with  2  onions  cut  into  slices,  2  sprigs  of  thyme,  1  bay  leaf,  and  12 
whole  peppers ;  cover  and  let  it  stand  1  hour.     Then  lay  the  fish 


224  SEA  FOOD,  Etc. 

pieces  on  a  clean  napkin,  pat  until  dry,  inclose  each  piece  sepa- 
rately in  1  sheet  of  thickly  buttered  writing  paper,  fold  the  paper 
to  keep  the  air  out,  lay  in  a  buttered  pan,  and  place  in  a  hot  oven. 
When  swelling  and  having  obtained  a  fine  delicate  color  they  are 
done ;  remove  them  carefully  to  a  hot  dish,  leaving  the  paper  un- 
disturbed, and  serve  with  French  fried  potatoes. 

Blueflsh  with  Fines  Herbes. ‚Äî Prepare  a  bluefish  as  in  fore- 
going recipe,  season  with  pepper  and  salt,  sprinkle  over  the  juice 
of  1  lemon,  and  set  aside.  Melt  2  ounces  of  butter  in  a  small 
saucepan,  add  2  fine-chopped  onions,  cook  3  minutes ;  then  add  Yg 
cupful  fine-chopped  mushrooms  (and,  if  handy,  2  chopped  truffles) ; 
season  with  1  even  teaspoonful  seasoning  salt,  cook  and  stir  5  min- 
utes ;  remove  from  fire,  and  add  Yg  tablespoonful  fine-chopped  pars- 
ley. Cut  6  sheets  of  white  paper  heart-shape,  and  spread  them 
with  butter,  lay  the  papers  on  a  board,  a  small  portion  of  the  above 
prepared  herbs  on  the  paper,  and  on  top  1  fish  piece ;  cover  the  fish 
with  a  layer  of  the  same  herbs ;  then  lift  up  the  other  side  of  the 
paper  and  twist  the  edges  together  with  the  fingers.  Lay  the  papil- 
lotes  in  a  buttered  pan,  and  bake  in  a  hot  oven  until  they  swell  and 
have  obtained  a  fine  brown  color.  Arrange  them  on  a  warm  dish, 
leaving  the  papers  undisturbed,  and  serve  with  potatoes  a  I'alle- 
mande. 

BUTTERFISH. 

In  season  from  October  to  April. 

Butterfish,  Fried. ‚Äî Clean  and  wash  6  fresh  butterfish,  wipe  dry, 
season  with  salt,  roll  in  flour,  and  fry  in  hot  fat  or  pork,  then  serve. 

Butterfish  a  la  Mariniere. ‚Äî Lay  6  well-cleaned  butterfish  in 
a  covered  dish,  season  with  1  tablespoonful  seasoning  salt,  add  1 
onion  cut  into  slices,  the  juice  of  1  lemon,  some  parsley,  and  1  sprig 
of  thyme  ;  leave  them  for  1  hour.  Then  remove,  wipe  dry,  dust 
lightly  with  flour,  dip  in  beaten  egg,  and  roll  in  bread  or  cracker 
crumbs.  Place  a  frying  pan  over  the  fire  with  1  tablespoonful  lard 
or  beef  fat,  add  a  little  butter,  and  when  hot  put  in  the  fish ;  fry  to 


SEA  FOOD,  Etc.  225 

a  delicate  brown  on  both  sides  and  well  done.     Serve  with  potatoes 
in  parsley  sauce. 

BLACKFISH. 
In  season  from  April  to  October. 

Blacklisli  a  la  Stamford. ‚Äî Procure  a  good-sized  fresh  fish, 
split  it  through  the  back,  remove  the  skin  and  bones,  and  cut  the 
meat  into  thin  slices  3  inches  long  ;  season  with  salt,  lay  in  a  covered 
dish  with  1  sliced  onion,  the  juice  of  1  lemon,  and  Yg  bunch  of  fresh 
parsley ;  cover  the  dish,  and  let  stand  1  hour.  Mix  the  yolks  of  2 
eggs  with  Ys  cup  of  milk,  add  Ys  teaspoonful  salt,  1  tablespoonf ul 
melted  butter,  2  tablespoonfuls  flour,  and  stir  this  to  a  smooth  bat- 
ter ;  beat  the  2  whites  to  a  stiff  froth,  add  to  the  batter ;  then  wipe 
the  fish  dry,  dust  lightly  with  flour,  take  each  piece  separately  on  a 
larding  needle,  dip  into  the  batter,  and  drop  into  boiling  fat  (do  not 
put  in  too  many  at  a  time) ;  fry  to  a  delicate  brown  color.  Lay  the 
fish  for  a  few  minutes  on  blotting  paper,  to  absorb  all  the  grease, 
then  arrange  on  a  hot  dish ;  serve  with  mashed  potatoes  and  tomato 
sauce  a  I'allemande. 

Blackflsli^  Baked. ‚Äî Select  a  good-sized  fish,  weighing  from  4 
to  5  pounds,  season  with  pepper  and  salt.  Lay  the  fish  with  3  slices 
of  larding  pork  under  it  into  a  baking  pan  ;  lay  a  few  slices  of  pork 
on  top  the  fish,  sprinkle  some  melted  butter  and  lemon  juice  over, 
place  in  a  hot  oven,  and  bake  till  done  (if  it  should  brown  too  much 
on  top,  cover  with  buttered  paper).  When  done,  transfer  the  fish 
carefully  to  a  warm  dish,  and  garnish  with  fried  tomatoes;  serve 
with  boiled  potatoes  and  Robert  sauce. 

Blackflsh,  Fried. ‚Äî Procure  a  fresh  fish  of  3  or  4  pounds,  clean, 
wash,  and  dry  it ;  season  with  salt,  split  it  through  the  back,  and 
cut  each  half  into  3  pieces  ;  roll  them  in  flour,  and  fry  in  half 
lard  and  half  butter  or  pork  lightb  rown.  Serve  with  French 
fried  potatoes. 


226  SEA  FOOD,  Etc. 


BASS. 

In  season  the  year  round. 

Bass ‚Äî Where  found,  etc. ‚Äî A  family  of  sea  and  fresh-water 
fishes,  of  which  there  are  many  known  varieties  in  the  American 
waters.  Bass  of  various  kinds  are  found  in  most  of  the  waters  of 
the  world,  and  are  everywhere  highly  esteemed  as  a  table  fish.  The 
American  varieties  are  the  sea  bass,  called  sometimes  blue  or  black 
bass.  Its  general  color  is  blue-black,  slightly  bronzed.  The  weight 
of  the  sea  bass  varies  from  Yg  pound  to  17  pounds,  and  is  in  season 
from  May  15th  to  the  end  of  October.  The  striped  bass  is  the  rock 
fish  of  the  Delaware  and  Potomac  rivers  ;  its  color  is  bluish  brown 
above,  silvery  white  below.  This  fish  winters  in  the  deep,  warm, 
muddy  sea  bays,  and  runs  up  the  rivers  in  the  spring  in  pursuit  of 
the  smelt,  also  to  devour  the  shad  roe  and  to  spawn  in  the  autumn. 
It  runs  from  the  size-  of  a  smelt  up  to  a  weight  of  50  and  70  pounds, 
is  an  excellent  fish  for  the  table,  and  in  season  the  year  round. 
Lake  and  black  bass  are  in  season  from  June  to  December. 

Bass  Ibaked  Plain. ‚Äî Select  1  well-cleaned  bass  of  4  pounds  or 
2  of  2  pounds  each,  season  with  salt,  place  in  a  baking  pan,  put  1 
tablespoonful  lard,  good  beef  fat,  or  larding  pork  in  the  pan,  put  Yg 
tablespoonful  butter  inside  the  fish,  and  pour  a  little  melted  butter 
over.  Bake  35  minutes  in  a  hot  oven  or  until  done ;  serve  with 
baked  or  boiled  potatoes  and  mustard  sauce. 

Bass,  Broiled. ‚Äî Split  open  a  3-pound  bass  through  the  belly 
to  the  back  without  separating  the  fish,  remove  the  back  bone,  wash 
and  wipe  the  fish  dry  ;  season  it  with  1  even  tablespoonful  season- 
ing salt ;  brush  the  fish  over  with  a  little  melted  butter  or  olive  oil ; 
place  it  on  a  broiler  with  the  flesh  side  toward  the  fire,  broil  over  a 
moderate,  clear  fire  10  minutes  ;  then  turn  and  broil  5  minutes  on 
the  skin  side.  Dress  the  fish  on  a  hot  dish  and  spread  2  ounces 
maitre  d'hotel  butter  over ;  serve  with  baked  potatoes. 


SEA  FOOD,  Etc.  227 

Bass,  Fried. ‚Äî Procure  a  4-pound  bass ;  clean,  wash,  and  split  tlie 
fish  in  halves,  then  cut  each  half  into  3  pieces  ;  season  with  lYg  even 
tablespoonf  ul  seasoning  salt,  and  roll  in  flour.  Cut  Yg  pound  larding 
pork  into  small  pieces,  place  it  in  a  frying  pan,  and  fry  till  it  begins 
to  turn  light  brown  ;  then  pour  half  the  pork  in  a  small  saucepan,  and 
keep  it  warm ;  put  as  many  of  the  fish  pieces  in  the  pork  as  will 
conveniently  go  in,  and  fry  light  brown  on  both  sides  (care  should  be 
taken  not  to  have  the  fire  too  hot) ;  keep  adding  more  of  the  pork  in 
the  saucepan  as  the  frying  continues.  Serve  with  mustard  sauce 
and  boiled  potatoes,  or  send  to  table  without  sauce.  In  place  of  pork 
the  fish  may  be  fried  in  lard,  beef  fat,  or  half  butter  and  half  lard 
or  fat ;  some  prefer  to  have  the  fish  fried  in  oil. 

Fillet  of  Bass,  Fried.‚Äî Procure  2  bass,  each  weighing  iVg 
pound,  split  them  through  the  back,  remove  the  skin  and  bones, 
pare  the  meat  into  oval  shapes,  season  with  1  even  tablespoonful 
seasoning  salt,  and  dust  lightly  with  flour  ;  dip  in  beaten  egg,  then 
roll  in  fine  bread  crumbs,  fry  in  half  butter  and  half  lard  to  a  golden 
color.  Dress  on  a  warm  dish,  garnish  with  parsley,  lemon,  and 
potato  chips,  and  serve  with  sauce  Tartare. 

Bass  stuffed  with  Oyster  Forcemeat. ‚Äî Procure  a  well- 
cleaned  4-pound  bass,  season  with  1  tablespoonful  seasoning  salt, 
and  fill  the  inside  with  oyster  forcemeat ;  sew  up  and  lay  in  a  baking 
pan  with  a  few  slices  of  larding  pork  under  it.  Lay  3  slices  of  pork 
on  top  the  fish,  and  pour  1  ounce  melted  butter  and  the  Juice  of  1 
lemon  over,  then  set  in  a  hot  oven  to  bake  35  minutes.  When  done 
remove  the  fish  carefully  to  a  warm  plate,  and  serve  with  tomato 
sauce  a  I'allemande  or  egg  sauce. 

Bass,  Boiled. ‚Äî Place  a  well-cleaned  bass  of  6  pounds  on  a 
drainer  in  a  fish  kettle,  cover  with  cold  water ;  add  1  tablespoonful 
salt  to  every  quart  of  water ;  add  Yg  cupful  white  vinegar,  3  onions, 
a  small  carrot,  and  a  bouquet ;  set  the  kettle  over  a  strong  fire  ;  as 
soon  as  it  begins  to  boil  draw  the  kettle  to  side  of  stove,  and  let 


228  SEA  FOOD,  Etc. 

simmer  40  minutes.     When  done  lift  the  fish  from  the  water,  drain 
and  slip  it  on  to  a  warm  dish ;  serve  with  oyster  sauce. 

Bass  a  la  St.  Helair. ‚Äî Procure  a  bass  weighing  about  2Y2 
pounds,  wash  and  wipe  it  dry,  season  with  1  tablespoonful  salt  and 
1  even  teaspoonf  ul  pepper ;  lay  the  fish  in  a  dish  with  2  fine-chopped 
onions,  1  sprig  of  thyme,  3  sprigs  of  parsley,  and  sprinkle  over  the 
juice  of  1  lemon;  cover  it  tightly  and  let  it  lay  in  this  marinade  1 
hour.  Forty  minutes  before  serving  place  the  fish  in  a  buttered 
pan  with  3  thin  slices  of  pork  under  it ;  pour  %  cup  of  white  wine 
into  the  pan  ;  add  the  chopped  onions,  parsley,  and  thyme,  cover 
with  buttered  paper,  and  bake  in  a  quick  oven  till  done,  basting  it 
frequently.  In  the  meantime  fry  Yg  tablespoonful  flour  in  Yg  table- 
spoonful  butter  for  a  few  minutes  ;  add  sufiicient  boiling  water  to 
make  a  creamy  sauce ;  add  Y2  teaspoonful  beef  extract,  2  table- 
spoonfuls  fine-chopped  mushrooms,  and  a  little  garlic.  Place  the 
fish  on  a  hot  dish,  strain  the  gravy,  add  it  to  the  sauce  in  the  sauce- 
pan, boil  8  minutes  ;  pour  it  over  the  fish,  and  serve. 

Striped  Bass  a  la  Saragossa.‚Äî Clean  and  wash  a  bass,  from 
5  to  6  pounds,  season  with  1  tablespoonful  seasoning  salt ;  jDlace  a 
saucepan  with  2  ounces  of  butter  over  the  fire  ;  add  Y2  cupful  fine- 
chopped  onions,  the  same  of  chopped  carrots,  cook  and  stir  5  min- 
utes ;  then  add  Ys  cupful  chopped  mushrooms,  Ys  cupful  mushroom 
liquor,  a  large  bouquet,  1  quart  white  broth,  1  bottle  white  wine, 
cover  and  boil  Ys  hour ;  set  aside,  and  when  cold  strain  the  broth 
through  a  fine  sieve.  Place  the  fish  on  a  drainer  in  a  fish  kettle, 
pour  over  the  broth,  set  the  kettle  over  the  fire  ;  as  soon  as  it  com- 
mences to  boil  remove  to  side  of  stove,  and  let  simmer  till  done.  In 
the  meantime  melt  2  ounces  butter  in  a  saucepan,  add  1  tablespoon- 
ful flour,  stir  and  cook  2  minutes  ;  add  Ys  pii^t  of  white  broth,  Ys 
pint  of  fish  broth,  cook  10  minutes  ;  mix  the  yolk  of  2  eggs  with  1 
tablespoonful  lemon  juice,  add  them  gradually  to  the  sauce  ;  place 
the  saucepan  in  hot  water  to  keep  warm.  When  the  fish  is  done 
lift  it  from  the  kettle,  drain  and  brush  the  bass  over  with  glaze 


SEA  FOOD,  Etc.  229 

mixed  with  a  little  lobster  butter ;  slip  the  fish  on  to  a  warm  dish 
and  garnish  with  oysters  a  la  Villeroi  and  mushrooms  stewed  in 
butter  ;  or  garnish  with  fried  oysters  and  scallops.  Pour  the  sauce 
into  a  sauce  bowl,  and  serve  with  the  fish. 

Bass  a  la  Radzivill. ‚Äî Butter  thickly  the  drainer  of  a  deep 
fish  pan  ;  cover  the  bottom  with  onions  cut  into  slices,  1  sliced 
carrot,  a  bouquet,  3  thin  slices  of  larding  pork,  2  ounces  fine-cut 
ham,  and  12  whole  peppers.  Clean  and  wash  a  medium-sized 
striped  bass ;  season  it  with  1  tablespoonful  seasoning  salt  well 
rubbed  inside  and  outside  the  fish ;  lay  the  fish  on  the  drainer,  pour 
1  bottle  Ehine  wine  over,  cover  with  buttered  paper,  place  the  pan 
over  the  fire,  and  boil  5  minutes ;  then  set  the  pan  in  the  oven, 
bake,  and  baste  often  till  the  fish  is  done.  Lift  the  bass  from  the 
pan,  strain  the  broth  into  a  saucepan,  remove  the  fat,  reduce  the 
broth  by  boiling  it  to  half  glaze.  Return  the  fish  to  the  pan,  pour 
the  broth  over,  set  in  the  oven,  and  baste  till  glazed  all  over  ;  then 
slip  on  to  a  warm  dish,  garnish  with  peeled  olives,  whole  stewed 
mushrooms,  small  green  pickles,  and  a  few  sliced  truffles  cooked  in 
wine,  and  serve  with  sauce  genevoise.  Salmon  trout  and  chicken 
halibut  may  be  prepared  in  the  same  way. 

Bass  a  I'Espagnole. ‚Äî Season  a  3-pound  well-cleaned  bass  with 
1  tablespoonful  seasoning  salt ;  lay  the  bass  in  a  covered  dish  with 
the  juice  of  1  lemon,  1  clove  of  garlic,  2  slices  onion ;  let  stand  1 
hour ;  then  wipe  the  fish  dry  with  a  soft  napkin,  place  a  large 
enough  fish  kettle  over  the  fire  with  sufficient  olive  oil  to  cover  the 
fish.  Lay  the  bass  on  the  fish  drainer,  put  3  medium-sized  tomatoes 
on  top  of  the  fish ;  as  soon  as  the  oil  is  boiling  hot  put  in  the  fish 
and  cook  20  minutes ;  then  remove,  let  the  fish  drain,  slip  it  on  to 
a  warm  dish ;  garnish  with  6  stuffed  baked  green  peppers,  18  small 
white  onions  parboiled  in  water  and  cooked  in  a  little  butter.  Serve 
with  Colbert  sauce. 

Bass  baked  a  TEspagiiole.‚Äî Obtain  a  4-pound  bass,  clean, 
and  wash  it,  season  with  1  tablespoonful  seasoning  salt,  put  on  a 


230  SEA  FOOD,  Etc. 

long  dish  with  2  onions  cut  into  slices,  sprinkle  over  the  juice  of  1 
lemon,  cover  the  fish.  Let  it  lie  1  hour.  Then  lay  3  or  4  thin 
slices  of  larding  pork  in  the  bottom  of  a  baking  pan,  put  a  few 
slices  of  the  onion  on  top  of  the  pork,  over  this  place  the  fish,  put  1 
ounce  butter  inside  the  fish,  3  small  tomatoes  with  3  slices  of  onions 
on  top  of  it,  and  pour  2  ounces  butter  over  all ;  lastly,  sprinkle  over  2 
tablespoonfuls  fine-chopped  green  pepper,  place  in  a  hot  oven,  and 
bake  from  30  to  40  minutes.  Eemove  the  fish  carefully  to  a  hot 
dish;  free  the  gravy  from  the  onion  and  pork  ;  add  1  tablespoonful 
flour  to  the  gravy,  stir  for  a  few  minutes  over  the  fire ;  add  1%  cup- 
ful boiling  water  and  cook  5  minutes ;  then  strain,  add  Yg  cupful 
mushroom  liquor,  1  teaspoonf  ul  beef  extract,  a  little  seasoning  salt, 
cook  a  few  minutes ;  mix  the  yolks  of  2  eggs  with  the  juice  of  Yg 
lemon,  add  it  gradually  to  the  sauce,  add  Yg  tablespoonful  butter  in 
small  pieces,  and  serve.  This  fish  may  be  served  with  a  tomato 
sauce  or  without  sauce. 

Fish  Croquettes. ‚Äî Cut  remnants  of  cold  cooked  fish  into 
small  pieces  ;  place  a  saucepan  with  1  ounce  butter,  2  tablespoonfuls 
fine-chopped  onion,  Y2  clove  of  bruised  garlic  over  the  fire ;  cook  5 
minutes ;  add  1  tablespoonful  flour,  stir,  and  cook  3  minutes  ;  then 
add  1  cupful  milk,  1  teaspoonful  salt,  Yg  even  teaspoonf  ul  white  pep- 
per, Ys  teaspoonful  dry  mustard,  and,  if  handy,  Yg  cupful  fine- 
chopped  mushrooms ;  add  the  fish  meat,  stir,  and  cook  5  minutes ; 
then  add  the  yolks  of  3  eggs  and  Ys  tablespoonful  fine-chopped 
parsley;  put  the  preparation  on  a  flat  dish  and  let  stand  in  a  cool 
place.  Thirty  minutes  before  serving,  form  the  preparation  into 
cork-shaped  croquettes,  dip  in  beaten  egg,  cover  with  fresh  grated 
bread  crumbs,  and  fry  light  brown  in  hot  fat.  Or  the  croquettes 
may  be  formed  into  small  pyramids  and  then  fried.  In  serving 
these  dress  on  a  hot  dish,  stick  a  small  sprig  of  parsley  in  the  top  of 
each,  and  serve  with  oyster,  caper,  or  Tartar  sauce. 

Croquilles  de  Poisson. ‚Äî Boil  1  pound  of  halibut  the  same  as 
for  fish  salad  (see  my  book  "  Desserts  and  Salads,  recipe  907),  break 


SEA  FOOD,  Etc.  231 

it  into  small  pieces,  and  mix  with  the  following  sauce  :  Melt  1  ounce 
butter  in  a  saucepan,  add  1  tablespoonful  flour,  stir,  and  cook  2 
minutes  ;  add  1  cupful  chicken  broth,  Yg  cupful  milk,  12  whole  pep- 
pers, a  small  bouquet,  Yg  gill  mushroom  liquor,  Ys  teaspoonful  nut- 
meg, 1  even  teaspoonful  salt,  cook  5  minutes ;  then  strain,  add  Ya 
gill  sweet  cream,  and  the  fish ;  fill  it  in  table  shells,  sprinkle  over 
some  fresh  grated  bread  crumbs  and  a  little  melted  butter,  bake 
light  brown  in  the  oven,  and  serve. 


MEATS. 

BEEF. 

Beef,  Braised. ‚Äî Select  a  piece  of  beef  of  4  pounds  from  the 
rump,  see  that  one  side  is  covered  with  fat,  remove  the  bone  ;  season 
the  meat  with  1  tablespoonful  salt,  1  teaspoonful  pepper,  roll  it  up  and 
tie  it  firmly  with  3  strings ;  saw  the  bone  into  small  pieces,  lay  in  a 
saucepan  with  2  ounces  larding  pork,  2  ounces  raw  ham,  2  onions,  1 
carrot,  both  cut  into  pieces ;  add  a  bouquet,  put  the  meat  on  top  of 
this ;  add  2  quarts  stock  or  broth.  Cover  the  meat  with  buttered  paper, 
put  on  the  cover,  place  the  saucepan  over  the  fire.  As  soon  as  it 
boils,  draw  to  side  of  stove,  and  let  simmer  3  hours ;  then  take  the  meat 
out,  lay  it  in  a  roasting  pan  with  a  little  broth  ;  strain  the  remaining 
broth  through  a  clean  cloth,  remove  every  particle  of  fat,  return  the 
broth  in  an  uncovered  saucepan  to  the  fire,  reduce  it  by  boiling  to  1 
pint.  Eemove  the  strings  from  the  meat,  pour  over  the  broth,  place 
in  a  hot  oven,  and  roast  30  minutes  (basting  frequently),  when  the 
broth  will  have  become  a  half  glaze.  Lay  on  a  warm  dish,  add 
to  the  gravy  in  pan  1  cupful  boiling  water,  scrape  all  the  brown 
part  loose  from  the  bottom  and  side  of  pan,  and  mix  it  with  the 
gravy.  Melt  1  tablespoonful  butter  in  a  saucepan,  add  1  tablespoon- 
ful flour,  stir  and  cook  2  minutes ;  add  the  gravy  from  the  pan  (if 
too  thick  add  more  boiling  water),  stir  and  cook  5  minutes ;  add  the 
juice  of  1  lemon,  1  teaspoonful  sugar;  pour  a  little  of  the  sauce  over 
the  meat,  and  serve  the  remainder  in  a  sauce  bowl.  Garnish  the 
meat  with  1  pint  of  cooked  carrot  balls,  1  pint  of  small  white  cooked 
onions,  and  1  pint  of  small  potato  balls,  cut  out  with  a  vegetable  cut- 
ter and  boiled  (see  Vegetables).  In  place  of  lemon  juice  Ys  pint 
white  wine  may  be  used  ;  it  is  then  called  Braised  Beef  a  la  Flamande. 


MEATS.  233 

Braised  Beef  a  rAmericaine. ‚Äî Take  a  piece  of  beef  from 
the  cross  ribs,  lower  sirloiu,  or  upper  round,  weighing  from  4  to  6 
pounds,  season  with  salt  and  pepper.  Cut  V2  pound  suet  into  small 
pieces,  put  it  in  a  saucepan  over  the  fire,  and  fry  light  brown  ;  put 
in  the  meat,  turn  frequently  and  cook  till  it  has  obtained  a  light 
brown  color  all  over;  then  add  1  pint  of  boiling  water,  cover  and 
cook  slowly  2  hours.  Kemove  the  meat,  strain  and  free  the  gravy 
from  fat,  return  it  to  the  saucepan,  adding  1  can  tomatoes;  as 
soon  as  it  boils,  put  in  the  meat,  and  cook  till  tender.  When  ready 
to  serve,  place  the  meat  on  a  hot  dish,  strain  the  sauce,  and  serve 
with  mashed  potatoes. 

Braised  Beef  a  la  Fran^aise. ‚Äî Procure  a  piece  of  beef  of  6 
pounds  from  the  rump  well  covered  with  fat ;  remove  the  bone  and 
lard  the  meat  with  strips  of  raw  ham ;  season  with  salt  and  pepper ; 
put  the  bone,  cut  into  pieces,  with  3  fine-cut  onions,  1  carrot,  1 
stalk  of  celery,  a  bouquet,  and  1  leek,  in  a  saucepan ;  place  the  meat 
on  top  of  this,  pour  over  lYg  cup  sherry  wine,  1  gill  of  brandy ;  set 
the  saucepan  over  the  fire,  cook  10  minutes ;  then  add  sufiicient  veal 
broth  to  nearly  cover  the  meat,  cover  with  buttered  paper,  put  on 
the  lid,  and  cook  slowly  4  hours.  Eemove  the  meat,  take  oii'  the 
strings,  put  it  in  a  roasting  pan  ;  strain  the  broth,  remove  all  the 
fat,  pour  1  pint  of  the  broth  over  the  meat,  set  it  in  a  hot  oven, 
roast  and  baste  frequently  30  minutes ;  put  the  remaining  broth  in 
a  saucepan  over  the  fire,  and  reduce  by  boiling  without  a  cover  to 
1  pint.  Melt  1  ounce  butter  in  a  small  saucepan,  add  1  fine-chopped 
onion,  a  little  fine-chopped  carrot,  cook  6  minutes ;  add  1  tablespoon- 
f 111  flour,  stir  a  few  minutes ;  add  the  reduced  bi-oth,  Y2  cupful 
mushroom  liquor,  Y4  teaspoonful  pepper,  and  boil  10  minutes ;  then 
strain,  add  the  gravy  from  the  meat  (if  too  thin,  reduce  the  sauce 
by  boiling).  When  ready  to  serve,  pour  a  little  of  the  sauce  over 
the  meat,  arrange  on  a  hot  dish,  and  garnish  with  young  cooked 
vegetables  in  season. 

Braised  Beef  a  la  Jardiniere. ‚Äî Procure  a  nice  rump  piece 
of  beef  of  G  pounds,  remove  the  bone ;  season  with  1  tablespoouful 


234  MEATS. 

salt,  Ya  tablespoonful  pepper,  roll  the  meat  up  and  tie  it  with  3 
strings.  Cut  the  bones  into  small  pieces,  place  them  in  a  saucepan 
large  enough  to  receive  the  meat ;  add  a  small  shank  of  veal  cut 
into  small  pieces,  2  large  onions  cut  into  slices,  1  carrot,  1  leek,  and 
a  bouquet ;  lay  the  meat  on  top  of  this,  cover  with  cold  water,  place 
the  saucepan  over  the  fire  ;  as  soon  as  it  boils  cover  the  meat  with  a 
piece  of  buttered  paper,  put  on  the  lid,  draw  the  saucepan  to  side  of 
stove,  and  let  boil  slowly  from  3  to  4  hours.  (One  may  ascertain  if 
done  by  sticking  a  larding  needle  into  the  meat ;  if  penetrating  easily 
it  is  done,  if  not  the  boiling  must  be  continued.  The  one-week-old 
meat  of  a  young  animal  generally  cooks  well  done  in  30  minutes 
for  each  pound ;  but  the  meat  of  an  old  animal  and  fresh  meat 
needs  longer  cooking.)  When  done,  take  the  meat  out,  remove  the 
strings,  lay  in  a  roasting  pan  with  1  pint  of  the  strained  broth  ;  set  it 
in  a  hot  oven  and  roast  20  minutes,  basting  frequently  ;  strain  the  re- 
maining broth,  remove  all  the  fat,  return  the  broth  to  the  fire  in  a 
saucepan,  and  reduce  it  by  boiling  to  lYg  pint.  Melt  1  ounce  butter 
in  a  saucepan,  add  V-j^  tablespoonful  flour,  stir  for  a  few  minutes ; 
add  the  strained  broth,  also  the  gravy  from  the  meat  in  oven,  cook 
10  minutes  ;  add  a  small  piece  of  butter  and  y,  teaspoonful  beef 
extract,  pour  a  little  of  the  sauce  over  the  meat.  Dress  on  a  hot  dish, 
garnish  with  1  pint  of  boiled  cauliflower  roses,  1  pint  cooked  carrot 
balls,  1  pint  stewed  green  peas,  Yg  pint  of  boiled  asparagus  tops,  and 
1  pint  small  potato  balls.  Each  vegetable  is  to  be  cooked  separately, 
the  cauliflower,  the  asparagus,  and  potatoes  in  salted  water,  the  peas 
and  carrots  in  water  with  a  little  sugar ;  when  the  vegetables  are 
done,  drain  them,  add  to  each  one  Y2  tablespoonful  butter,  to  the 
peas  and  carrots  a  little  salt ;  toss  them  up  for  a  few  minutes  over 
the  fire,  then  lay  in  clusters  around  the  meat,  and  serve  with  the 
sauce.  Any  other  vegetables  in  season  may  be  used  in  place  of  the 
above  named. 

Braised  Beef  a  la  Brussel. ‚Äî Choose  a  piece  of  beef  from 
the  middle  sirloin  weighing  from  6  to  8  pounds,  remove  the  bone 
and  fat,  then  cut  some  larding  pork  into  long,  finger- thick  strips, 


MEATS.  235 

chop  1  onion  very  fine,  mix  it  with  1  tablespoonful  salt,  1  teaspoon- 
ful  pepper,  74  teaspoonful  allspice,  Yg  teaspoonful  thyme ;  roll  the 
strips  of  pork  in  this  seasoning.  Then  make  incisions  in  the  meat 
1  inch  apart,  put  into  each  a  piece  of  the  pork  ;  season  the  meat  all 
over  with  salt  and  pepper,  roll  up  tightly,  and  tie  with  strings. 
Chop  the  bones  into  small  pieces,  put  into  a  stewpan,  add  2  onions 
with  2  cloves  stuck  into  each,  1  carrot,  and  a  large  bouquet ;  lay  the 
meat  on  top  of  this ;  add  1  pint  red  wine  and  1  gill  of  brandy, 
cover  and  cook  30  minutes,  turning  the  meat  occasionally;  then 
add  1  quart  of  stock,  cover  the  meat  with  buttered  paper,  put  on 
the  lid  and  cook  2Y2  hours,  basting  frequently  with  its  own  gravy. 
Take  out  the  meat,  place  it  in  a  roasting  pan,  strain  the  broth,  re- 
move all  the  fat,  and  pour  the  broth  over  the  meat ;  add  Yg  cup 
currant  jelly  and  Y2  cupful  red  wine,  set  the  pan  in  a  hot  oven  and 
roast  till  well  done,  basting  frequently.  When  done  lift  the  meat 
to  a  warm  dish  ;  mix  1  tablespoonful  cornstarch  with  a  little  cold 
water,  add  it  to  the  gravy,  stir  and  cook  on  top  of  stove  for  a  few 
minutes,  then  strain ;  pour  2  tablespoonfuls  over  the  meat,  garnish 
with  small  potato  dumplings,  and  serve  with  the  sauce. 

Pot  Roast. ‚Äî Pot  roast  should  either  be  cooked  rare  or  till  well 
done.  Choose  a  nice  thick  piece  of  beef  from  the  lower  sirloin  or 
cross  rib  weighing  about  4  pounds,  season  with  salt  and  pepper,  tie 
it  firmly  with  strings  into  a  round  shape.  Cut  4  ounces  larding 
pork  into  small  pieces,  put  them  in  a  saucepan  large  enough  to  re- 
ceive the  meat,  place  the  saucepan  over  the  fire  and  fry  till  the 
pork  is  light  brown  ;  then  add  2  ounces  of  butter,  put  in  the  meat, 
cook  and  turn  till  the  meat  becomes  a  fine  brown  color ;  then  add 
Ys  pint  of  stock,  1  carrot,  and  2  onions,  cover  and  cook  till  done 
(about  1  hour  for  4  pounds  if  wanted  rare,  and  3  hours  if  well  done). 
If  the  gravy  should  boil  away  add  more  broth  or  water,  a  little  at  a 
time.  "When  done  take  out  the  meat,  remove  the  fat  from  the 
gravy ;  mix  1  tablespoonful  cornstarch  with  Ys  cupful  water,  add  it 
to  the  gravy,  stir  a  few  minutes,  then  add  sufficient  stock  or  boiling 
water  to  make  a  creamy  sauce,  boil  5  minutes ;  strain  and  pour  a 
16 


236  MEATS. 

little  over  the  meat,  dress  on  a  warm  dish ;  garnish  with  stuffed 
tomatoes  and  potatoes  tortonia. 

Pot  Boast  a  I'Allemande. ‚Äî Select  a  piece  of  beef  from  the 
lower  sirloin  or  rump ;  if  the  rump  is  taken,  remove  the  bone ; 
season  the  meat  well  with  salt  and  pepper,  tie  it  into  a  round  shape 
with  strings.  Melt  4  ounces  butter  in  a  saucepan  ;  as  soon  as  melted 
put  in  the  beef,  turn  often,  and  cook  till  the  meat  has  obtained  a 
fine  color ;  add  1  cup  of  stock  or  boiling  water,  cover  and  cook  till 
nearly  dry  ;  then  add  1  pint  of  sour  cream,  1  onion,  a  few  slices  of 
carrot,  and  a  bouquet,  cover  and  cook  slowly  till  the  meat  is  done. 
(If  wanted  rare,  allow  15  minutes  to  a  pound ;  if  well  done,  30  min- 
utes. All  pot  roasts  must  either  be  cooked  rare  or  well  done.) 
Shortly  before  serving  take  the  meat  out,  remove  the  strings,  and 
lay  it  on  a  warm  dish ;  free  the  gravy  from  the  fat,  mix  1  table- 
spoonful  cornstarch  with  a  little  cold  water,  add  it  to  the  gravy, 
stir  and  cook  a  few  minutes ;  add  sufficient  stock  or  boiling  water 
to  make  a  creamy  sauce,  cook  3  minutes ;  then  strain,  pour  a  few 
spoonfuls  over  the  meat,  and  serve  the  remaining  sauce  in  a  sauce- 
bowl.  With  this  meat,  creamed  beans  and  boiled  potatoes  may  be 
served,  or  nudles  boiled  in  salted  water  and  dressed  with  fried  bread 
crumbs.     (If  cream  is  not  handy  sweet  milk  may  be  taken.) 

Sour  Boast. ‚Äî Select  a  piece  of  beef  of  4  pounds  from  the 
lower  sirloin ;  cut  Yg  pound  larding  pork  into  finger-thick  strips, 
chop  fine  1  onion,  mix  it  with  1  tablespoonf  ul  salt,  Yg  tablespoonful 
pepper,  Y*  teaspoonful  allspice ;  make  incisions  1  inch  apart  in  the 
meat  with  a  pointed  knife,  roll  the  pork  strips  separately  in  the 
onion  seasoning ;  put  one  into  each  incision ;  rub  the  remaining 
seasoning  all  over  the  meat,  tie  it  into  a  round  shape.  Place  the 
meat  into  a  bowl,  mix  1  pint  of  strong  white  vinegar  with  Y2  pint 
of  water,  pour  it  over  the  meat;  add  2  onions  cut  into  slices,  6 
cloves,  2  bay  leaves,  12  whole  peppers,  cover  and  set  in  a  cool  place 
for  3  days,  turning  the  meat  every  day  with  a  fork.  When  ready 
to  cook  put  the  meat  into  a  roasting  pan,  add  the  vinegar,  spice, 


MEATS.  237 

and  onions,  also  1  tablespoonful  sugar,  set  in  a  hot  oven  and  roast 
2Y2  hours,  or  till  done.  Shortly  before  serving  lay  the  meat  on  a 
hot  dish,  remove  the  strings,  and  garnish  with  potato  dumplings ; 
strain  the  gravy,  remove  the  fat,  mix  1  tablespoonful  cornstarch 
with  Y2  cupful  cold  water,  add  it  to  the  gravy,  stir  and  cook  a  few 
minutes  on  top  of  stove  (if  too  thick  add  sufficient  boiling  water  to 
make  a  creamy  sauce,  boil  3  minutes).  Pour  a  little  of  the  sauce 
over  the  meat  and  serve  the  remainder  in  a  sauce  bowl.  Stewed 
prunes  can  be  served  with  this  dish. 

Beef  a  la  Mode. ‚Äî Procure  a  nice  thick  piece  of  beef  off  the 
lower  sirloin  weighing  about  6  pounds  ;  chop  fine  1  onion  and 
some  parsley,  add  1  tablespoonful  salt,  Y2  tablespoonful  pepper ;  cut 
4  ounces  larding  pork  and  4  ounces  raw  ham  into  finger-thick 
strips,  and  make  with  a  pointed  knife  incisions  1  inch  apart  in 
the  meat ;  roll  the  pork  and  ham  in  the  seasoning,  put  the  strips  of 
pork  and  ham  alternately  into  the  incisions ;  tie  the  meat  with  a 
string  into  a  perfect  round  shape.  Cover  the  bottom  of  a  saucepan 
with  three  thin  slices  of  larding  pork,  4  ounces  raw  ham,  3  onions 
cut  into  slices,  2  carrots,  and  a  large  bouquet ;  place  the  meat  on 
top  of  this,  add  Yg  pint  Rhine  wine  and  sufficient  white  broth  to 
reach  half  way  up  the  meat ;  cover  with  buttered  paper,  put  on  the 
lid  and  cook  slowly  3Y2  hours.  When  done  take  out  the  meat, 
remove  the  strings,  trim  neatly,  lay  it  on  a  warm  dish  ;  free  the 
broth  from  every  particle  of  fat  and  strain  it.  Melt  1  tablespoonful 
butter  in  a  saucepan,  add  1  tablespoonful  flour,  stir  and  cook  a  few 
minutes ;  add  1  pint  of  the  strained  broth  and  cook  5  minutes ; 
then  strain,  pour  a  little  of  the  sauce  over  the  meat,  arrange  it  on  a 
hot  dish,  and  garnish  with  boiled  potatoes  and  carrot  balls,  also 
small  white  glazed  onions. 

Sirloin  of  Beef  a  la  Hamtourgoise.‚Äî Procure  a  piece  of  6 
pounds  from  the  lower  sirloin,  cut  Y2  pound  of  larding  pork  into 
long  finger-thick  strips ;  mix  1  tablespoonful  salt  with  Y2  table- 
spoonful pepper,  1  teaspoonful  nutmeg,  Y2  tablespoonful  parsley,  1 


238  MEATS. 

bruised  garlic  ;  make  with  a  pointed  knife  incisions  1  inch  apart  in 
the  meat,  roll  each  strip  of  pork  in  the  seasoning  and  put  a  strip  of 
it  into  each  incision  ;  rub  the  remaining  seasoning  well  into  the 
meat.  Place  a  braising  pan  large  enough  to  receive  the  meat  over 
the  fire,  add  4  ounces  fine-cut  pork,  let  it  fry  till  light  brown ;  put  in 
the  beef,  turn  frequently  till  light  brown  all  over ;  then  add  1  pint 
of  broth,  1  onion,  a  small  clove  of  garlic,  and  a  bouquet.  Set  the 
braising  pan  in  a  medium-hot  oven,  and  roast  3  hours,  basting  fre- 
quently and  turning  the  meat  every  half  hour  (if  the  broth  boils 
away  add  more,  but  not  too  much  at  a  time).  When  tlie  meat  is 
done  take  it  out,  trim  neatly,  and  set  it  with  a  little  of  the  broth  in 
a  warm  place.  Kemove  the  fat  from  the  gravy ;  mix  1  tablespoon- 
ful  cornstarch  with  Yg  cup  cold  water,  add  it  to  the  gravy,  cook  and 
stir  for  a  few  minutes  ;  add  sufficient  broth  to  make  a  creamy  sauce, 
boil  a  few  minutes,  then  strain  ;  pour  a  few  spoonfuls  of  the  gravy 
over  the  meat.  Arrange  the  braised  beef  on  a  hot  dish,  and  lay  a 
border  of  cooked  red  cabbage  around  the  dish ;  serve  with  boiled 
potatoes  and  the  sauce. 

Spiced  Beef. ‚Äî Choose  a  nice  piece  of  beef  off  the  thick  flank, 
weighing  from  6  to  8  pounds ;  mix  5  tablespoouf uls  salt  with  1 
tablespoonful  brown  sugar  and  Ys  teaspoonful  saltpeter,  rub  this 
well  into  the  meat,  and  place  it  in  a  stone  jar  or  bowl,  set  in  a 
cool  place  for  5  days,  turning  it  2  or  3  times  during  that  time  (the 
turning  should  be  done  with  a  fork).  When  the  meat  is  to  be 
cooked  wash  it  in  cold  water,  remove  the  gristle  and  the  coarse  skin 
of  the  inside  part.  Have  ready  2  tablespoonfuls  fine-minced  onion, 
1  tablespoonful  chopped  parsley,  Ys  teaspoonful  thyme,  as  much 
sage  as  can  be  held  between  2  fingers,  Y2  teaspoonful  allspice,  1  tea- 
spoonful pepper ;  sprinkle  this  over  the  inside  of  the  meat,  roll  it  up 
in  a  cloth,  and  bind  firmly  with  a  string;  place  it  over  the  fire  with 
boiling  water,  and  boil  slowly  from  4  to  5  hours.  When  the  meat  is 
done  take  out,  put  under  a  good  weight  without  undoing,  and  let  it 
remain  until  cold.    This  meat  is  very  nice  cut  up  cold  for  lunches  or 


MEATS.  239 

suppers.     In  place  of  flank  a  rump  piece  may  be  taken,  and  the 
bone  removed. 

Roll  of  Beef. ‚Äî Take  a  4-pound  brisket  piece  of  beef,  remove 
bones,  skin,  and  most  of  the  fat ;  mix  1  even  tablespoonful  salt  with 
1  teaspoonful  pepper,  rub  this  all  over  the  beef,  roll  up  and  tie  it 
firmly.  Put  a  few  pieces  of  pork  in  bottom  of  saucepan,  add  2 
sliced  onions,  1  sliced  carrot,  1  bay  leaf,  a  few  sprigs  of  parsley,  a  little 
celery,  1  sprig  of  thyme,  1  blade  of  mace,  3  cloves ;  lay  the  meat  on 
top  of  this  cover  and  cook  20  minutes  on  top  of  the  stove ;  then  add 
Y2  cup  white  wine  or  the  juice  of  1  lemon,  and  1  cup  boiling  water 
with  Y2  teaspoonful  beef  extract  or  bouillon;  cover  tightly  and 
place  in  a  medium-hot  oven  for  3  hours.  Shortly  before  serving 
transfer  the  meat  to  a  dish,  remove  the  fat  from  gravy,  add  a  little 
boiling  water  to  the  gravy,  boil  for  a  few  minutes,  strain,  and 
pour  it  over  the  meat.  Fry  Yg  tablespoonful  flour  in  Y2  tablespoon- 
ful butter  for  a  few  minutes,  add  Y2  pint  stock  or  boiling  water  with 
a  little  beef  extract,  boil  3  minutes ;  then  strain.  Put  2  tablespoon- 
fuls  fine-chopped  mushrooms  with  1  tablespoonful  fine-chopped 
boiled  ham  or  tongue  in  a  small  saucepan,  add  a  small  wineglass- 
ful  Madeira  wine,  4  tablespoonfuls  strained  stewed  tomatoes,  and 
boil  3  minutes ;  then  add  the  sauce  previously  made,  boil  all  up 
together,  add  a  pinch  of  salt,  and  serve  with  the  meat. 

Boiled  Brisket  a  Pltalienne. ‚Äî Procure  a  nice  brisket  piece 
of  beef,  place  it  in  a  soup  kettle  over  the  fire,  cover  with  water ;  as 
soon  as  it  boils  add  2  onions,  1  carrot,  a  bouquet,  a  little  celery,  and 
12  whole  peppers ;  season  with  1  even  tablespoonful  salt,  Ys  table- 
spoonful pepper,  cover  and  cook  slowly  from  4  to  5  hours.  When 
done  take  the  meat  out,  remove  all  the  bones,  and  trim  the  meat 
nicely.  Melt  2  ounces  butter,  add  2  tablespoonfuls  flour,  cook  2 
minutes ;  add  2  cups  milk,  Y2  cupful  mushroom  liquor,  cook  5  min- 
utes ;  mix  the  yolks  of  3  eggs  with  3  tablespoonfuls  cream,  add  it  to 
the  sauce ;  add  2  ounces  grated  Parmesan  cheese.  Kemove  from 
fire,  lay  the  brisket  pieces  in  a  roasting  pan,  pour  Y2  cupful  broth 


240  MEATS. 

into  it,  cover  the  top  of  the  brisket  with  the  above  sauce,  sprinkle 
over  2  ounces  grated  cheese,  2  tablespoonfuls  bread  crumbs,  a 
little  melted  butter,  bake  light  brown  in  a  hot  oven.  In  the  mean- 
time strain  the  broth,  remove  the  fat,  and  reduce  the  broth  by  boil- 
ing to  one  half.  Melt  1  ounce  butter  in  a  saucepan,  add  1  table- 
spoonful  flour,  cook  2  minutes ;  add  1  pint  of  the  reduced  broth,  Yg 
teaspoonful  beef  extract,  74  teaspoonful  pepper,  cook  5  minutes ; 
add  a  small  piece  of  butter,  and  serve  with  the  meat.  Serve  any  kind 
of  vegetables  in  season  with  it. 

Beef  prepared  for  Roasting.‚Äî The  7  prime  ribs  are  used  for 
roasting,  the  first  2  ribs  near  the  short  loin  being  the  best ;  the  ribs 
for  roasting  are  prepared  in  three  different  ways  :  One  is  to  saw  off 
the  ribs  to  an  inch  from  the  meat,  to  give  the  piece  selected  for 
roasting  as  much  of  a  round  shape  as  possible.  Another  way  is  to 
remove  all  the  bones,  roll  the  meat  and  tie  it  with  a  string,  this  form- 
ing the  piece  into  a  round  shape.  The  third  mode  is  to  leave  the 
bones  undisturbed,  and  roast  the  beef  with  the  bones. 

Roast  Beef. ‚Äî Select  2  ribs  of  beef  and  prepare  in  any  of  the 
three  forms  mentioned  above ;  wipe  the  meat  off  with  a  towel,  sea- 
son with  1  tablespoonful  seasoning  salt,  rubbing  the  seasoning  well 
into  the  meat.  Lay  4  ounces  fine-cut  suet  in  a  roasting  pan,  place 
over  it  the  meat,  lay  6  ounces  suet  on  top ;  set  the  pan  in  a  hot  oven, 
roast  30  minutes,  then  turn  the  meat  over,  replacing  the  suet  on 
top,  and  roast  40  minutes  longer  (a  piece  of  7  pounds  will  be  done 
in  that  time;  a  good  plan  is  to  allow  10  minutes  for  each  pound). 
When  done  lay  the  meat  on  a  warm  dish,  remove  nearly  all  the  fat 
from  the  gravy  ;  mix  1  tablespoonful  cornstarch  with  Yg  cupful  cold 
water,  add  it  to  the  gravy,  also  sufficient  boiling  water  to  make  1 
pint  of  sauce,  boil  and  stir  5  minutes,  then  strain  ;  add  Y2  teaspoon- 
ful beef  extract  and  a  small  piece  of  butter ;  serve  with  the  meat. 
If  potatoes  are  to  be  roasted  in  the  pan  with  the  meat,  peel  and 
wash  the  desired  quantity,  and  after  roasting  the  meat  15  min- 
utes, lay  the  potatoes  around  the  meat,  sprinkling  over  some  salt ; 


MEATS.  241 

they  will  then  be  done  with   the   meat ;    turn  them  once  while 
roasting. 

Boast  Beef  with  Yorksliire  Pudding.‚Äî Roast  a  piece  of 
beef  as  in  foregoing  recipe ;  35  minutes  before  serving  sift  1  pint  of 
prepared  flour  in  a  bowl,  add  Ys  ounce  butter,  rub  butter  and  flour 
together  with  the  hand  ;  add  1  teaspoonful  sugar,  and  gradually  1 
pint  of  milk  and  2  well-beaten  eggs ;  mix  all  well  together.  Pour 
a  few  spoonfuls  of  the  beef  fat  in  a  long  shallow  tin  pan,  brush  it 
all  over  the  pan,  pour  in  the  batter,  place  in  a  moderate  oven,  and 
bake  from  25  to  30  minutes.  In  serving  lay  the  meat  on  a  warm 
dish,  cut  the  pudding  into  square  pieces  and  lay  around  the  meat ; 
pour  a  little  of  the  beef  gravy  over  each  piece  and  serve.  Or  the  beef 
must  be  roasted  30  minutes  and  the  pudding  placed  under  the  meat ; 
in  that  case  the  meat  must  be  laid  on  a  grating  so  that  the  drippings 
fall  upon  the  pudding  below. 

Boiled  Bibs  of  Beef. ‚Äî Procure  a  2-ribbed  piece  of  roast  beef, 
cut  oS  the  ribs  close  to  the  meat,  use  the  round  piece  of  meat  for 
roasting.  Rub  the  ribs  thickly  with  salt  all  over,  let  them  lay  in  a 
cool  place  or  in  the  ice  box  for  one  week ;  when  wanted  to  use,  wash 
the  meat  in  cold  water,  place  it  in  a  saucepan  with  cold  water  over 
the  fire,  and  boil  till  tender,  which  will  take  3  hours.  Serve  with 
onion  or  horseradish  sauce. 

Fillet  a  PAmericaine. ‚Äî Season  4  pounds  fillet  of  beef  with  1 
even  tablespoonful  salt,  Y4  teaspoonful  pepper.  Put  2  ounces  fine -cut 
suet  in  a  roasting  pan,  lay  the  fillet  on  top  the  suet,  pour  2  ounces 
melted  butter  over  or  lay  2  ounces  suet  on  top  the  meat,  set  the  pan 
in  a  hot  oven,  and  roast  15  minutes ;  then  pour  Y2  cupful  boiling  water 
in  the  pan,  roast  25  minutes,  basting  frequently.  When  done  lay  the 
fillet  on  a  warm  dish ;  mix  Y2  tablespoonful  cornstarch  with  1  gill  of 
cold  water,  remove  the  fat  from  the  gravy,  add  the  dissolved  cornstarch, 
stir  for  a  few  minutes  over  the  fire ;  add  sufficient  boiling  water  to 
make  a  creamy  sauce,  season  with  a  little  beef  extract,  salt  and  pepper 
to  taste,  boil  3  minutes,  strain,  pour  2  tablespoonfuls  over  the  meat, 


242  MEATS. 

and  serve  the  remaining  sauce  in  a  sauce  bowl.     Place  6  stuffed  and 
baked  tomatoes  around  the  fillet  and  serve. 

Fillet  of  Beef  a  PAllemaiide.‚Äî Take  4  pounds  of  fillet  of 
beef,  remove  with  a  small  sharp  knife  the  sinewy  skin  which  covers  it, 
lard  with  fine  strips  of  larding  pork,  season  with  1  even  tablespoonful 
salt,  1  even  teaspoonful  pepper ;  lay  the  fillet  in  a  roasting  pan,  pour 
4  ounces  melted  butter  over,  set  in  a  hot  oven,  and  roast  10  minutes ; 
then  add  Yg  gill  of  water  and  Yg  pint  sour  cream,  baste  and  roast 
30  minutes,  allowing  10  minutes  to  a  pound.  When  done  lay  the 
fillet  on  a  warm  dish  ;  mix  Ys  tablespoonful  cornstarch  with  1  gill 
of  cold  water,  add  it  to  the  sauce,  stir  for  a  few  minutes  over  the 
fire ;  add  sufficient  boiling  water  to  make  a  creamy  sauce,  boil  3 
minutes ;  then  strain  through  a  sieve,  pour  a  little  of  the  sauce  over 
the  meat,  and  serve  the  remainder  in  a  sauce  bowl,  with  the  meat. 
Garnish  with  shaved  horseradish  ;  half  of  it  should  be  colored  with 
a  little  pink  coloring  paste ;  serve  with  compote  and  salad.  (For 
Compote  and  Salad  see  my  book  Desserts  and  Salads.) 

Fillet  of  Beef  a  la  Berlinoise.‚Äî Pare  and  trim  4  pounds 
fillet  of  beef,  lard  it  closely  with  fine  strips  of  larding  pork,  season 
with  1  even  tablespoonful  salt,  1  even  teaspoonful  pepper.  Lay  the 
meat  in  a  roasting  pan  a  little  larger  than  the  meat ;  add  1  sliced 
onion,  1  small  sliced  carrot ;  baste  the  meat  with  2  ounces  melted 
butter,  set  in  a  hot  oven  and  roast  40  minutes,  basting  occasionally 
with  its  own  gravy  (if  the  vegetables  should  brown  too  much  in 
bottom  of  pan,  add  2  tablespoonfuls  of  water).  At  the  same  time 
drain  off  the  liquor  from  a  can  of  mushrooms,  melt  4  ounces  butter 
in  a  saucepan ;  when  hot,  put  in  the  mushrooms,  add  1  even  tea- 
spoonful salt,  cover,  and  cook  15  minutes.  When  ready  to  serve, 
put  the  fillet  on  a  warm  dish,  add  Ys  tablespoonful  flour  to  the 
gravy  in  pan,  stir  for  a  few  minutes  on  top  the  stove,  then  add  1  cup- 
ful boiling  water,  1  teaspoonful  beef  extract,  Y2  cupful  mushroom 
liquor,  a  small  bouquet;  season  with  Y2  even  teaspoonful  pepper, 
salt  to  taste,  and  boil  6  minutes ;  strain,  pour  2  spoonfuls  sauce  over 


MEATS.  243 

the  meat,  add  the  juice  of  Yg  lemon  to  the  mushrooms,  arrange 
them  around  the  fillet,  and  serve  with  the  sauce. 

Fillet  a  la  Princesse. ‚Äî Take  4  pounds  of  fillet  of  heef,  re- 
move the  skin  which  covers  the  top,  and  lard  it  closely  with  strips 
of  larding  pork ;  season  with  1  even  tablespoonful  salt,  1  even  tea- 
spoonful  pepper.  Lay  in  the  bottom  of  a  roasting  pan  a  little  larger 
than  the  meat  3  slices  of  larding  pork,  1  onion  cut  into  slices,  4  slices 
of  carrot,  and  a  few  parsley  roots  ;  lay  the  fillet  on  top  of  this,  place 
the  pan  in  a  hot  oven,  and  roast  40  minutes.  When  done  transfer 
the  meat  to  a  hot  dish,  place  6  stuffed  baked  tomatoes  around  the 
meat,  and  serve  with  the  following  sauce  :  Put  in  a  saucepan  1  table- 
spoonful  butter,  1  tablespoonful  fine-chopped  onion,  1  tablespoonful 
fine-minced  ham,  1  bay  leaf,  1  clove,  Yg  blade  of  mace,  a  small  sprig 
of  thyme,  2  parsley  roots ;  place  over  the  fire,  stir  for  10  minutes ; 
add  1  tablespoonful  flour,  cook  for  2  minutes,  add  lYs  cupful  chicken 
or  veal  broth,  Y2  teaspoonful  beef  extract,  2  tablespoonfuls  chopped 
mushrooms,  Y2  cupful  sherry  wine,  and  the  gravy  from  the  fillet ; 
boil  10  minutes ;  season  with  Y2  even  teaspoonful  pepper ;  then 
strain,  pour  a  little  of  the  sauce  over  the  meat,  and  serve  the  rest 
in  a  sauce  bowl  with  the  meat. 

Fillet  of  Beef,  Braise  a  la  Printanier.‚Äî Trim  and  lard  a 
nice  thick  fillet  of  beef,  season  with  lYs  even  tablespoonful  salt,  Y2 
teaspoonful  pepper.  Put  3  ounces  fine-cut  raw  ham  in  a  saucepan, 
add  3  ounces  larding  pork,  1  carrot,  2  onions,  and  a  bouquet ;  lay 
the  fillet  on  top  of  this  ;  add  sufficient  bouillon  to  nearly  cover  the 
meat,  cover  with  buttered  paper,  put  on  the  lid.  Place  the  sauce- 
pan over  the  fire ;  as  soon  as  it  boils  draw  the  saucepan  to  side  of 
stove  and  boil  slowly  from  2  to  3  hours.  When  done  take  the  meat 
out,  lay  it  in  a  roasting  pan,  strain  the  broth,  remove  the  fat,  reduce  it 
by  boiling  to  1  pint,  then  pour  it  over  the  meat ;  set  the  pan  in  hot 
oven,  baste,  and  roast  30  minutes.  Melt  1  tablespoonful  butter  in  a 
saucepan,  add  1  tablespoonful  flour,  cook  a  few  minutes ;  add  the 
gravy  from  the  meat,  add  1  gill  Khine  wine,  a  little  mushroom 


244:  MEATS. 

liquor,  Yi  teaspoonful  pepper  (if  too  thick,  thin  with  bouillon  or 
boiling  water) ;  cook  5  minutes,  then  strain  ;  pour  a  few  spoonfuls 
of  sauce  over  the  meat.  Lay  the  fillet  on  a  warm  dish,  garnish  with 
small  clusters  of  cauliflower  roses  and  stewed  green  peas,  asparagus 
tops,  and  small  potato  balls. 

Tenderloin  a  la  Bordelaise. ‚Äî For  a  family  of  6  procure  2V2 
to  3  pounds  tenderloin,  cut  it  into  slices  IY2  inch  in  thickness,  trim, 
and  pound  lightly  to  flatten  to  1  inch  ;  season  with  1  tablespoonful 
salt,  Y2  teaspoonful  pepper ;  brush  over  with  melted  butter.  Lay 
the  steaks  on  a  hot  broiler  and  broil  over  a  clear  moderate  fire  from 
10  to  12  minutes,  turning  the  meat  several  times  while  cooking. 
(In  order  to  tell  when  the  meat  has  cooked  sufficiently  touch  it 
with  the  finger ;  if  offering  slight  resistance,  it  is  cooked  rare ;  if 
cooked  to  perfection,  the  resistance  will  be  a  little  stronger  ;  expe- 
rience will  soon  teach  this.)  Arrange  the  steak  on  a  warm  dish, 
pour  over  a  hot  Bordelaise  sauce,  see  that  the  marrow  lays  on  top 
the  steaks,  and  garnish  with  potatoes  tortonia. 

Tenderloin,  Broiled. ‚Äî Procure  a  nice  tenderloin,  remove  the 
fiber  parts,  cut  the  tenderloin  into  2-inch-thick  slices,  beat  lightly 
to  flatten  to  lYg  inch  in  thickness,  trim  to  a  uniform  size.  Place  a 
broiler  over  a  moderate  clear  fire,  brush  the  tenderloin  steaks  over 
with  melted  butter,  lay  them  on  the  hot  broiler,  and  broil  5  minutes 
on  each  side  ;  then  remove  to  a  warm  dish.  Spread  over  each  steak 
Y2  teaspoonful  seasoning  butter  and  serve  with  potatoes  a  la  Bern- 
hardt. 

Beefsteak. ‚Äî The  parts  of  beef  used  for  steak  are:  Porter- 
house, sirloin,  tenderloin,  fillet,  chuck,  round,  and  flank.  A  steak 
should  not  be  cut  thinner  than  ^4  inch  in  thickness. 

Beefsteaks,  Broiled. ‚Äî Choose  any  of  the  above-named  steaks 
%  to  IY2  inch  in  thickness,  remove  the  fat  and  sinews,  brush  over 
with  a  little  melted  butter ;  place  a  broiler  over  a  moderate  clear 
fire,  lay  the  steak  on  the  hot  broiler,  turn  often,  and  broil  from  10 
to  15  minutes,  according  to  the  thickness.     Lay  the  steak  on  a  hot 


MEATS.  245 

dish ;  take  for  IY3  pound  of  steak  1  ounce  of  butter,  1  even  tea- 
spoonful  salt,  Y4  even  teaspoonful  pepper  ;  mix  together  and  spread 
it  on  both  sides  over  the  steak  ;  serve  at  once. 

Beefsteak,  Fried. ‚Äî For  a  family  of  six,  take  from  2Y2  to  3 
pounds  of  steak  Y4  inch  in  thickness,  remove  all  fat  and  sinews,  cut 
the  meat  into  6  equal  portions.  Place  an  iron  frying  pan  over  a 
strong  fire,  put  in  a  little  fine-cut  suet  (just  enough  to  grease  the 
pan)  ;  when  very  hot,  put  in  as  many  pieces  of  the  steak  as  will 
conveniently  lie  in  the  pan,  fry  on  each  side  4  minutes ;  then  lay 
the  meat  on  a  hot  dish.  Mix  for  3  pounds  of  steak  1  even  table- 
spoonful  seasoning  salt  with  2  ounces  butter ;  spread  this  over  the 
steak,  equally  distributed  on  both  sides. 

Beefsteak  broiled  a  la  Bearnaise. ‚Äî Procure  2  steaks  of  the 
short  porterhouse  174  inch  thick,  beat  lightly  to  flatten  them  to  1 
inch  in  thickness,  sprinkle  over  them  1  even  tablespoonful  salt,  1 
even  teaspoonful  pepper,  brush  over  on  both  sides  with  melted  but- 
ter. Lay  the  steaks  on  a  hot  broiler  over  a  clear,  moderate  fire,  and 
broil  12  minutes,  turning  the  steak  4  times.  At  the  same  time  pre- 
pare a  sauce  Bearnaise  (see  Sauces)  ;  spread  the  sauce  on  a  warm 
dish,  lay  the  steak  over  the  sauce,  and  serve  with  French  fried  pota- 
toes. (The  French,  Spanish,  and  Italians  use  oil  for  steak ;  the 
Americans  and  Germans  prefer  butter.) 

Beefsteak  with  Onions. ‚Äî Procure  a  sirloin  steak  from  2V3  to 
3  pounds,  remove  all  fat  and  sinews,  divide  it  into  6  equal  pieces. 
Put  a  frying  pan  with  a  little  beef  fat  over  a  strong  fire,  when  very 
hot  lay  in  the  meat,  fry  4  minutes  on  each  side ;  then  lay  the  meat 
on  a  hot  dish,  mix  1  even  tablespoonful  seasoning  salt  with  1  ounce 
butter,  spread  this  over  the  steak.  At  the  same  time  place  a  frying 
pan  with  2  ounces  very  finely  cut  suet  over  the  fire,  and  fry  light 
brown  ;  cut  3  onions  into  slices,  put  them  into  the  hot  fat,  sprinkle 
with  Ya  teaspoonful  salt,  cover  and  cook  till  tender;  remove  the 
cover,  continue  the  cooking  until  the  onions  begin  to  turn  light 
brown,  then  pour  them  over  the  steak  and  serve  with  boiled  pota- 


246  MEATS. 

toes.     Flank,  chuck,  and  round  steaks  may  be   prepared  in   the 
same  way. 

Beefsteak  a  la  Colbert. ‚Äî Procure  2  steaks  of  the  short  porter- 
house 1  inch  in  thickness,  remove  the  fat  and  sinews,  brush  the 
steaks  over  with  melted  butter,  lay  them  on  a  hot  broiler,  and  broil 
over  a  moderate,  clear  fire  12  minutes,  turning  often  while  broiling. 
When  done,  lay  them  on  a  hot  dish,  mix  2  ounces  butter  with  1 
even  tablespoonful  seasoning  salt,  spread  this  over  the  steaks.  Ar- 
range 6  stuffed  and  baked  green  peppers  in  a  circle  around  the  dish, 
and  serve  with  Colbert  sauce  (see  Sauce). 

Beefsteak  a  la  Maitre  d'Hotel. ‚Äî Select  either  a  porterhouse 
or  sirloin  steak  1  inch  in  thickness,  weighing  about  2Yg  pounds ;  re- 
move all  the  fat,  trim  the  steak  nicely,  season  with  1  even  table- 
spoonful  seasoning  salt,  brush  it  over  with  melted  butter  on  both 
sides,  lay  the  steak  on  a  hot  broiler,  broil  over  a  clear  fire  12  minutes, 
turning  often  while  broiling.  When  done,  place  on  a  hot  dish, 
spread  2  ounces  maitre  d'hotel  butter  over,  and  serve  with  potato 
chips. 

Beefsteak  with  Mushroom  Sauce. ‚Äî Procure  2  fine  steaks  of 
the  short  loin,  each  weighing  1^4  pound,  season  with  1  even  table- 
spoonful  salt,  Ya  even  teaspoonful  pepper.  Lay  on  a  hot  broiler  and 
broil  over  moderate  fire  12  minutes,  turning  the  steaks  often  while 
broiling ;  when  done,  arrange  them  on  a  hot  dish.  At  the  same 
time  place  a  saucepan  with  1  tablespoonful  butter  over  the  fire,  add 
1  tablespoonful  flour,  cook  and  stir  3  minutes ;  add  lYg  cup  boiling 
water,  1  teaspoonful  beef  extract,  and  Ys  can  of  mushrooms,  season 
with  Y4  teaspoonful  pepper  and  Y2  even  teaspoonful  salt,  boil  15 
minutes ;  then  pour  the  sauce  over  the  steaks  and  serve. 

Beefsteak  with  Oysters. ‚Äî Procure  a  nice  porterhouse  steak 
1  inch  in  thickness  weighing  about  IY2  pound,  trim  it  neatly ;  lay 
the  meat  on  a  hot  broiler,  and  broil  over  a  clear  fire  6  minutes  on 
each  side,  turning  often  while  broiling.     Remove  the  steak  to  a 


MEATS.  247 

warm  dish,  stir  1  tablespoonful  butter  to  a  cream,  add  1  teaspoon- 
ful  salt,  Yi  teaspoonful  pepper,  spread  this  over  the  steak ;  arrange 
the  oysters  described  below  in  a  circle  around  it,  and  serve  with 
potatoes  a  la  duchesse.  Place  1  dozen  large  oysters  without  their 
liquor  in  a  saucepan  over  the  fire,  add  Yg  tablespoonful  butter,  1 
tablespoonful  lemon  juice,  Y4  teaspoonful  salt,  a  little  white  pepper, 
cook  3  minutes ;  mix  the  yolk  of  1  egg  with  3  tablespoonf uls  cream, 
add  it  to  the  oysters,  leave  them  for  a  minute  over  the  fire  without 
boiling  ;  then  finish  as  directed  above. 

Sirloin  Steak  h  la  Milanaise. ‚Äî Procure  IY2  pound  of  lean, 
tender  beef  from  the  sirloin,  have  it  ground  very  fine  on  a  meat 
grinder,  remove  all  stringy  parts,  season  with  1  tablespoonful  sea- 
soning salt,  add  1  grated  onion  and  4  ounces  fine-minced  suet ; 
mix  all  well  together;  form  this  into  6  flat  cakes,  roll  in  bread 
crumbs,  and  fry  in  butter  3  minutes  on  each  side.  When  done,  lay 
them  on  a  hot  dish,  pour  over  the  tomatoes  described  below,  and 
serve  with  spaghetti  a  la  creme. 

Tomatoes. ‚Äî Scald  4  large  ripe  tomatoes  in  boiling  water, 
remove  the  skin  and  cut  the  tomatoes  into  pieces.  Place  a  deep 
frying  pan  over  the  fire  with  2  ounces  butter ;  as  soon  as  hot  put  in 
the  tomatoes,  add  Ys  teaspoonful  salt,  Y*  teaspoonful  pepper,  Ys  tea- 
spoonful sugar,  cook  10  minutes  without  a  cover ;  then  pour  over 
the  steak  and  serve. 

Haml)urger  Steak.‚Äî Procure  1%  pound  beef  of  the  lower  sir- 
loin or  upper  round,  remove  all  the  fat  and  stringy  parts ;  put  the 
meat  in  a  chopping  machine,  and  grind  it  very  fine ;  mix  with  4 
ounces  fine-ground  suet,  1  even  tablespoonful  salt,  Y2  even  teaspoon- 
ful pepper,  1  egg^  and  2  tablespoonfuls  fine-chopped  onion.  After 
mixing  all  well  together,  form  the  meat  into  6  round  balls,  flatten, 
and  roll  them  in  grated  bread  crumbs,  then  place  a  frying  pan  with 
one  ounce  butter  over  the  fire  ;  as  soon  as  hot,  put  in  the  steaks,  and 
fry  light  brown  or  about  3  minutes  on  each  side  ;  arrange  them  on  a 
hot  dish,  put  1  teaspoonful  flour  in  the  pan,  stir  for  a  minute,  add 


248  MEATS. 

Y2  cupful  boiling  water  and  a  little  beef  extract,  cook  2  minutes, 
then  strain ;  add  a  small  piece  of  butter  and  a  pinch  of  salt,  pour  it 
over  the  steak,  and  serve  with  Lyonnaise  potatoes. 

Hamburger  Steak  with  Onion  Sauce.‚Äî Mix  IY2  pound  fine- 
ground  or  chopped  lean  beef  with  4  ounces  fine-chopped  suet,  re- 
move all  stringy  parts,  season  with  1  even  tablespoonful  salt,  Yg  even 
teaspoonful  pepper ;  mix  all  well  together  ;  form  this  into  6  steaks, 
roll  them  in  fine-sifted  bread  crumbs,  and  fry  light  brown  in  butter, 
about  3  minutes  on  each  side.  When  done,  lay  the  steaks  on  a  hot 
dish,  put  1  cupful  fine-chopped  onions  in  the  pan,  add  a  little  more 
butter,  cover  and  cook  6  minutes,  then  add  Ys  teaspoonful  flour, 
stir  a  minute,  add  Y2  cupful  stock  or  boiling  water,  with  a  little  beef 
extract,  and  season  with  salt ;  cook  3  minutes.  Pour  the  sauce  over 
the  steaks  and  serve  with  boiled  potatoes. 

Hanovarian  Steak. ‚Äî Procure  IY2  pound  lean  tender  beef  off 
the  sirloin,  grind  it  exceedingly  fine  in  a  meat  grinder  (or  chop  it 
very  fine),  season  with  1  even  tablespoonful  salt,  Y2  even  teaspoonful 
pepper ;  form  this  into  6  flat  cakes,  brush  over  with  melted  butter, 
lay  on  a  hot  broiler,  and  broil  4  minutes  on  each  side,  turning  fre- 
quently. At  the  same  time  place  a  deep  frying  pan  with  1  ounce 
butter  over  the  fire,  add  Y2  cupful  very  finely  chopped  onion,  cover, 
and  cook  6  minutes  without  browning  the  onions.  Peel  4  large 
ripe  tomatoes,  cut  into  pieces,  and  add  to  the  onions ;  season  with 
Y2  teaspoonful  salt,  Y4  teaspoonful  pepper,  Y2  teaspoonful  sugar, 
cover  and  cook  10  minutes ;  then  remove  the  cover,  stir  and  cook 
a  few  minutes  longer ;  pour  it  over  the  steak  and  serve.  Porter- 
house, sirloin,  chuck,  round,  and  flank  may  be  prepared  in  the  same 
way. 

Raw  Beefsteak. ‚Äî Take  1  pound  tender  beefsteak,  mince  it 
very  fine  (or  better,  grind  it  in  a  machine),  remove  all  stringy  parts, 
season  with  1  even  tablespoonful  seasoning  salt,  add  1  tablespoonful 
fine-minced  onion;  shape  this  into  small  round  beefsteaks,  and 
serve  them  raw. 


MEATS.  249 

Beef  a  la  Tar  tare. ‚Äî Have  1  pound  of  tender  beefsteak  minced 
very  fine,  season  with  1  even  tablespoonful  seasoning  salt ;  divide  it 
into  4  parts,  and  form  into  pyramids  or  like  pears.  Set  each  one  on 
a  small  tea  plate,  press  the  top  down  a  little,  and  make  a  small 
hollow  in  the  center ;  put  into  each  hollow  the  yolk  of  1  egg ;  put 
around  each  pyramid  clusters  of  fine-minced  onions  and  pickled 
beets.  Skin  and  bone  6  anchovies,  divide  each  one  in  2  fillets,  roll 
each  fillet  up,  and  place  3  of  them  on  each  plate,  on  top  the  garnish. 
Serve  with  bread  and  butter. 

Minced  Beefsteak,  Broiled.‚Äî Mince  or  grind  1%  pound  beef 
from  the  upper  round  very  fine,  form  it  into  6  flat  cakes  Y2  inch  in 
thickness,  brush  them  over  with  melted  butter  on  both  sides,  place 
them  on  a  hot  broiler,  and  broil  over  a  clear  fire  4  minutes  on  each 
side ;  serve  on  a  hot  dish,  spread  3  ounces  seasoning  butter  over, 
and  serve  with  baked  or  French  fried  potatoes. 

Flank  Steak  witli  Onions. ‚Äî Place  a  frying  pan  over  the  fire, 
add  just  enough  fine-cut  suet  to  grease  the  pan ;  cut  2  pounds  of 
thin  flank  into  6  pieces ;  when  the  pan  is  very  hot,  put  in  as  many 
of  the  meat  pieces  as  will  conveniently  go  in,  fry  4  minutes  on  each 
side  over  a  very  hot  fire.  When  done,  remove  the  meat  to  a  hot 
dish,  season  with  salt  and  pepper ;  put  3  ounces  fine-cut  suet  in  the 
pan,  and  fry  crisp  ;  remove  the  scraps,  cut  3  or  4  onions  into  fine 
slices,  put  them  in  the  hot  fat,  season  with  Yg  teaspoonful  salt,  and 
a  little  pepper ;  cover  the  pan  and  cook  till  tender,  stirring  often. 
When  done,  pour  the  onions  over  the  steak  and  serve  with  mashed 
potatoes  and  turnips.  Eound  steak  is  prepared  the  same  as  chuck 
and  flank  steak. 

Steak  a  la  Stanley. ‚Äî Procure  a  short  thick  porterhouscsteak 
of  lYs  pound,  season  with  1  teaspoonful  salt  and  Y2  teaspoonful 
pepper,  pour  1  tablespoonful  oil  all  over  the  steak,  and  broil  over 
a  clear  fire  6  minutes  on  each  side  ;  then  place  it  on  a  hot  dish,  pour 
over  the  sauce  described  below,  and  lay  3  fried  bananas  on  top. 
Broiled  tenderloin  steak  may  be  taken  in  place  of  porterhouse. 


250  MEATS. 

Sauce. ‚Äî Place  a  saucepan  with  1  ounce  butter  over  the  fire,  add 
as  soon  as  melted  1  tablespoonf ul  flour,  stir  and  cook  for  2  minutes ; 
add  lYs  cup  boiling  milk,  season  with  1  even  teaspoonful  salt,  a  little 
grated  nutmeg,  8  whole  peppers,  a  small  bouquet,  and  Yg  cup  mush- 
room liquor ;  cook  slowly  10  minutes  ;  then  strain  the  sauce  into 
another  saucepan,  add  Yg  teaspoonful  sugar,  a  little  Cayenne  pepper, 
3  tablespoonfuls  grated  horseradish,  and  2  tablespoonfuls  cream ; 
cook  3  minutes,  and  use  as  directed  above. 

Fkied  Bananas. ‚Äî Peel  and  cut  lengthwise  2  bananas  into 
halves,  roll  them  in  flour,  and  fry  in  butter  till  light  brown  on  both 
sides  (care  must  be  taken  not  to  break  them). 

Round  Steak  broiled  with  Yinaigrette  Sance.‚Äî Take  2 

pounds  round  steak  Y4  i^^ch  in  thickness,  brush  a  little  melted 
butter  or  oil  over  the  steak,  lay  it  on  a  hot  broiler,  and  broil  over  a 
clear  fire  12  minutes,  turning  the  steak  every  3  minutes  while  cook- 
ing. When  done,  lay  the  steak  on  a  hot  dish,  pour  over  a  vinaigrette 
sauce,  and  serve.     Any  other  steak  may  be  prepared  the  same  way. 

Chuck  Steak,  Broiled. ‚Äî Select  a  nice  Y4-inch-thick  chuck 
steak  ;  trim  nicely,  brush  over  with  melted  butter,  lay  on  a  hot  broiler, 
and  broil  over  a  clear  moderate  fire  12  minutes,  turning  it  several 
times.  When  done,  lay  the  steak  on  a  hot  dish ;  mix  1  tablespoon- 
ful  butter  with  Ys  tablespoonful  salt,  Ys  teaspoonful  pepper,  spread 
this  over  the  steak,  and  serve  with  mashed  potatoes  and  fried 
tomatoes. 

Chuck  Steak  fried  with  Tomato  Sauce.‚Äî Place  a  frying 
pan  over  the  fire,  add  enough  suet  to  grease  the  pan ;  cut  a  2Y2- 
pounds  chuck  steak  into  6  pieces.  Let  the  pan  get  very  hot,  put  in 
the  steak,  fry  4  minutes  on  each  side.  Place  the  steak  on  a  hot 
dish,  season  with  salt  and  pepper,  pour  over  1  pint  tomato  sauce, 
and  serve  with  mashed  potatoes.  Round  and  fiank  steaks  can  be 
prepared  the  same  way. 

Flank  a  I'Allemande. ‚Äî Cut  2Y3  pounds  of  the  upper  flank 
into  2-inch  pieces ;  place  the  meat  in  a  saucepan,  cover  with  boil- 


MEATS.  251 

ing  water;  add  12  small  white  onions,  1  bouquet,  2  even  table- 
spoonfuls  salt,  1  even  tablespoonful  pepper,  cover,  and  cook  IY2 
hour.  Melt  2  ounces  butter  in  a  saucepan,  add  2  tablespoonfuls 
flour,  stir  and  cook  a  few  minutes  ;  strain  the  broth  from  the  meat, 
add  IY2  pint  of  the  broth  to  the  flour  and  butter,  stir  and  cook  till 
smooth ;  mix  the  yolks  of  2  eggs  with  the  juice  of  Y2  lemon,  add  it 
slowly  to  the  sauce ;  place  the  meat  on  a  hot  plate,  and  pour  the 
sauce  over  it.  In  the  meantime  have  some  nudles  boiled  in  salted 
water,  drain  and  arrange  them  in  a  border  around  the  dish ;  fry  3 
tablespoonfuls  bread  crumbs  in  butter  light  brown,  sprinkle  them 
over  the  nudles,  and  serve  (sufficient  for  family  of  six).  In  place  of 
flank,  either  beef  from  the  neck  or  chuck  may  be  taken. 

Rolled  Flank  in  Aspic‚Äî Procure  3  pounds  thin  flank,  rub  it 
off  with  a  cloth,  and  season  with  1  tablespoonful  salt,  1  even  tea- 
spoonful  pepper,  and  sprinkle  over  the  juice  of  1  lemon ;  set  it 
aside  until  the  following  forcemeat  is  prepared  :  Chop  fine  Vs  pound 
pork  chops,  also  Yg  pound  of  veal,  add  2  ounces  fine-chopped  larding 
pork,  mix  the  three  together ;  season  with  salt,  pepper,  and  a  little 
nutmeg  (add,  if  handy,  a  few  mushrooms).  Spread  this  forcemeat 
over  the  flank,  roll  up,  then  roll  into  a  towel,  tie  the  ends  and  cen- 
ter with  a  string.  Place  a  saucepan  with  2  calf's  feet  cut  into 
pieces  over  the  fire,  cover  with  cold  water  ;  as  soon  as  it  boils  add  2 
onions  with  3  cloves  stuck  into  each,  add  2  bay  leaves,  12  whole 
peppers,  and  Ys  bunch  parsley,  2  lemons  cut  into  slices  and  freed 
from  the  pits ;  put  in  the  roll,  cover,  and  cook  3  hours.  Take  the 
roll  out  and  strain  the  broth  through  a  napkin,  put  the  roll  back 
into  the  broth,  and  set  in  a  cool  place.  When  nearly  cold  take  out 
the  roll,  remove  the  napkin,  lay  the  roll  between  2  plates,  put  a 
weight  on  the  upper  plate.  Eemove  every  particle  of  fat  from  the 
broth,  return  to  the  fire,  reduce  by  boiling  to  1  quart ;  then  whip 
the  whites  of  two  eggs  to  a  stiff  froth,  add  the  juice  of  1  lemon  and 
a  little  cold  water,  stir  this  into  the  broth,  cook  5  minutes ;  then 
draw  to  side  of  stove.  Place  a  saucepan  in  a  vessel  of  hot  water 
17 


252  MEATS. 

over  the  fire,  put  a  sieve  over  the  saucepan,  a  napkin  in  the  sieve, 
pour  the  broth  in  the  napkin,  and  let  it  run  into  the  saucepan. 
When  all  is  thus  strained  pour  it  into  a  form  and  set  aside  to  cool, 
then  place  on  ice  till  firm.  When  ready  to  serve,  cut  the  roll  into 
slices,  arrange  them  nicely  on  a  dish,  chop  up  some  of  the  jelly,  and 
lay  it  around  the  dish ;  serve  with  mayonnaise. 

Rolled  Flank,  Filled.‚Äî Procure  2V3  pounds  of  the  thinnest 
part  of  flank,  wipe  it  off  with  a  cloth,  season  with  1  tablespoonf  ul 
seasoning  salt ;  soak  2  slices  of  stale  bread  in  cold  water.  Place  a 
saucepan  with  2  tablespoonfuls  fine-chopped  onion  over  the  fire, 
add  1  ounce  butter,  cook  5  minutes ;  then  press  out  the  bread  and 
measure  it  (there  should  be  1  even  cupful),  add  it  to  the  butter  and 
onion,  stir  over  the  fire  6  minutes.  Eemove,  and  when  cold  mix  it 
with  4  ounces  fine-chopped  fresh  pork  or  sausage  meat ;  season  with 
salt  and  pepper,  add  Yg  teaspoonf ul  thyme  and  1  egg ;  when  this  is 
well  mixed  spread  it  over  the  meat,  roll  up,  and  tie  at  each  end  with  a 
string,  and  in  the  center.  Put  a  saucepan  with  2  ounces  fine-cut  suet 
over  the  fire,  fry  it  light  brown,  add  1  ounce  butter,  then  put  in  the 
meat  and  cook,  turning  the  meat  often  until  light  brown  all  over ; 
then  add  1  cup  of  broth,  cover  and  cook  about  2^/2  hours,  till  tender. 
(If  the  broth  boils  away  and  the  meat  becomes  dry,  add  more  broth, 
but  not  too  much  at  a  time).  When  the  meat  is  done  transfer  it  to 
a  hot  dish,  take  off  the  strings,  and  keep  it  warm ;  remove  the  fat 
from  the  gravy,  mix  1  tablespoonful  cornstarch  with  1  gill  of  cold 
water,  add  it  to  the  gravy,  stir  and  cook  a  few  minutes ;  add  suflS- 
cient  broth  to  make  a  creamy  sauce  ;  then  strain,  add  a  small  piece 
of  butter,  pour  a  little  sauce  over  the  meat,  and  serve  the  remainder 
in  a  sauce  bowl.  Mashed  Russian  turnips  and  potatoes,  also  stewed 
dried  apricots,  go  nicely  with  this  dish. 

Rolled  Flank  a  la  Philip. ‚Äî Procure  about  2  pounds  of  the 
inside  flank,  wipe  it  off  with  a  clean  cloth,  season  both  sides  with  1 
even  tablespoonful  seasoning  salt.  Cut  2  ounces  parboiled  bacon 
into  thin  slices,  remove  the  rind,  lay  the  slices  over  the  flank,  roll 


MEATS.  253 

up,  and  tie  with  a  string  on  each  end  and  in  the  center.  Cut  1 
ounce  larding  pork  into  small  pieces,  put  it  in  a  saucepan  over  the 
fire  with  2  ounces  fine-cut  suet,  fry  light  brown ;  then  put  in  the 
meat,  turn  often,  and  let  it  cook  until  it  becomes  a  light  brown ; 
then  add  1  onion  cut  in  half,  2  whole  small  carrots,  6  whole  pep- 
pers, a  bouquet,  Y2  clove  of  bruised  garlic,  cook  and  stir  for  a  few 
minutes  longer ;  then  add  Y2  V^^^  boiling  meat  broth  or  water,  cover 
and  cook  gently  about  2  hours  till  -done,  turning  the  meat  twice. 
When  ready  to  serve  take  the  meat  out,  remove  the  strings,  and  lay 
it  on  a  warm  dish.  Eemove  the  fat  from  the  gravy,  mix  1  table- 
spoonful  cornstarch  with  Yg  cup  cold  water,  add  it  to  the  gravy,  stir 
and  cook  for  a  few  minutes ;  add  sufficient  broth  or  boiling  water  to 
make  a  creamy  sauce,  then  strain  into  a  saucepan,  add  the  juice  of 
Y2  lemon,  Ys  teaspoonful  sugar,  Y4  teaspoonful  pepper,  1  tablespoon- 
f ul  fine-chopped  parsley,  Ys  teaspoonful  beef  extract,  and  the  fine-cut 
boiled  carrots ;  pour  a  little  of  the  sauce  over  the  meat,  and  serve 
the  remainder  in  a  sauce  bowl.  Serve  with  macaroni  and  stewed 
tomatoes ;  or  it  may  be  served  with  any  kind  of  vegetables ;  also 
nudles  boiled  in  salted  water,  boiled  rice,  or  potato  dumplings  may 
be  served  with  it.  This  is  sufficient  for  a  family  of  6,  and  will  cost 
about  30  cents. 

Flank  a  la  Berlinoise. ‚Äî Take  a  piece  of  flank  weighing  2 
pounds,  rub  it  off  with  a  clean  damp  cloth,  season  with  1  even  table- 
spoonful  seasoning  salt.  Place  a  saucepan  with  2  fine-chopped 
onions  and  1  ounce  of  butter  over  the  fire,  cook  5  minutes  without 
browning ;  add  Y2  cupful  fine-chopped  mushrooms,  1  even  teaspoon- 
ful seasoning  salt,  cook  a  few  minutes  longer ;  when  cold  spread  this 
over  the  meat,  roll  up,  and  tie  at  each  end  and  in  the  center  with  a 
string.  Set  a  saucepan  with  2  ounces  fine-cut  suet  over  the  fire,  fry 
until  the  suet  is  fried  out,  then  add  1  ounce  butter,  put  in  the  meat, 
cook  and  turn  till  the  meat  becomes  a  light  brown ;  add  1  cup  of 
broth,  cover  and  cook  %  hour ;  add  1  cup  of  sour  cream,  cook  lYs 
hour  longer,  or  until  done.     When  ready  to  serve,  lay  the  meat  on 


254  MEATS. 

a  hot  dish,  take  off  the  strings,  remove  the  fat  from  the  gravy,  mix 
1  teaspoonf  ul  cornstarch  with  a  little  cold  water,  add  it  to  the  gravy, 
cook  a  few  minutes  (if  too  thick  add  some  broth  or  boiling  water), 
strain,  pour  a  few  spoonfuls  over  the  meat,  and  serve  the  remaining 
sauce  in  a  sauce  bowl.  Mashed  potatoes  and  beans  a  la  creme  go 
good  with  this  dish,  or  boiled  rice. 

Flank  a  la  Bremolse. ‚Äî Procure  a  nice  piece  of  flank  weigh- 
ing about  2  pounds,  season  it  with  1  even  tablespoonful  seasoning 
salt,  roll  up,  and  tie  at  each  end  and  in  the  center  with  a  string. 
Place  a  saucepan  with  3  ounces  fine-cut  suet  over  the  fire,  fry  until 
light  brown ;  put  in  the  meat,  turn  often,  and  cook  till  light  brown  ; 
then  add  1  cup  of  broth,  Yg  cup  vinegar,  2  fine-cut  onions,  4  whole 
cloves,  1  bay  leaf,  1  blade  of  mace,  10  whole  peppers,  1  tablespoon- 
ful of  sugar,  cover  and  cook  slowly  2  hours  (if  the  liquid  boils  away 
add  a  little  more  broth  and  vinegar).  AVhen  done  lay  the  meat  on 
a  warm  dish,  remove  the  fat  from  the  gravy,  mix  1  tablespoonful  of 
cornstarch  with  1  gill  of  cold  water,  add  it  to  the  sauce,  stir,  and 
cook  3  minutes  (if  too  thick  add  more  broth  or  water) ;  then  strain, 
add  Ys  tablespoonful  of  butter  to  the  gravy  ;  taste,  if  necessary ;  add 
a  little  more  salt,  vinegar,  and  sugar  (the  sauce  should  have  a  sweet 
sour  taste).  When  ready  to  serve  pour  a  little  sauce  over  the  meat, 
and  serve  the  remainder  in  a  sauce  bowl ;  serve  potato  dumplings 
with  this  dish. 

Boiled  Flank  with  Horseradish  Sauce.‚Äî Take  a  nice  piece 
of  the  lower  flank  of  lYs  pound,  roll  up,  and  tie  with  a  string ; 
place  a  soup  kettle  with  some  soup  bones  over  the  fire,  cover  with 
cold  water ;  as  soon  as  it  boils  put  in  the  flank,  and  Ys  tablespoonful 
salt,  2  onionsj  1  leek,  1  stalk  of  celery,  a  bouquet,  and  1  carrot  cut 
into  pieces ;  cover  and  cook  slowly  2Y8  hours.  When  ready  to  serve 
remove  the  meat  from  the  saucepan  to  a  hot  dish,  take  off  the 
strings,  and  serve  with  horseradish  sauce.  Strain  the  broth,  add 
some  boiled  rice  or  barley,  cook  a  few  minutes,  and  serve  as  a  soup. 
Send  plain  boiled  potatoes  to  the  table  with  it. 


MEATS.  255 

Flank  a  I'ltalienne. ‚Äî Out  lYg  pound  of  the  upper  flank  into 
Yg-inch  pieces ;  place  a  saucepan  with  2  fine-cut  onions,  1  bruised 
clove  of  garlic,  and  3  tablespoonf  uls  olive  oil  over  the  fire ;  cook  3 
minutes ;  add  1  fine-cut  green  pepper,  cook  3  minutes  longer ;  season 
the  meat  with  1  even  tablespoonful  salt,  Yg  teaspoonful  pepper. 
Put  the  meat  in  the  saucepan,  cover,  and  cook  30  minutes,  stirring 
often;  then  add  1  quart  of  white  broth,  1  cupful  blanched  rice, 
and  3  peeled  and  fine-cut  tomatoes ;  cover  and  cook  slowly  1  hour, 
stirring  often ;  then  serve.  In  place  of  fiank,  beef  from  the  neck 
or  chuck  may  be  taken. 

Beef  Stew  a  I'Americaine. ‚Äî Procure  2  pounds  of  beef,  either 
from  the  neck,  upper  flank,  or  chuck,  cut  it  into  small  pieces  1  inch 
in  size ;  place  the  meat  in  a  saucepan  over  the  fire,  cover  with  boil- 
ing water,  add  1  tablespoonful  salt,  Y2  even  teaspoonful  pepper,  2 
fine-cut  onions,  4  fine-cut  tomatoes;  cover  and  cook  IY2  hour;  then 
add  6  peeled  potatoes  cut  into  quarters,  and  cook  till  done.  Mix  1 
tablespoonful  butter  with  Ys  tablespoonful  flour,  add  it  to  the  stew, 
boil  a  few  minutes,  and  serve.  The  tomatoes  may  be  omitted  and 
more  potatoes  may  be  added  if  liked. 

Beef  stew  with  Tegetables.‚Äî Procure  2  pounds  beef  off  the 
chuck,  cut  it  into  inch-sized  pieces,  cut  Y*  pound  bacon  into  small 
pieces ;  place  both  ingredients  in  a  saucepan,  cover  with  3  pints  of 
meat  broth  or  water,  add  Ys  teaspoonful  salt,  Ys  teaspoonful  pepper, 
2  fine-cut  onions,  cover  and  boil  1  hour ;  add  1  quart  fine-cut  string 
beans,  boil  Ys  liour ;  then  add  2  medium-sized  sweet  potatoes  cut 
into  eighths,  12  pears  freed  from  the  blossom,  4  medium-sized  peeled 
potatoes  cut  into  quarters,  cover  and  cook  till  done.  Ten  minutes 
before  serving  mix  1  tablespoonful  butter  with  Ys  tablespoonful 
flour,  remove  the  pears,  put  the  flour  and  butter  in  center  of  the 
stew,  cook  10  minutes  ;  then  serve  on  an  oblong  dish  with  the  pears 
in  a  circle  around  the  dish,  sprinkle  1  tablespoonful  fine-chopped 
parsley  over  the  whole,  and  serve  (suflBcient  for  a  family  of  6).  A 
stew  from  the  upper  flank  or  neck  is  prepared  the  same  way. 


256  MEATS. 

Beef  RagOtit. ‚Äî Procure  2y2  pounds  of  beef  from  the  neck  of 
beef,  cut  it  into  iVg-inch  pieces ;  place  a  saucepan  with  2  ounces 
butter  over  the  fire,  add  2  fine-cut  onions,  cook  a  few  minutes,  sea- 
son the  meat  with  1  even  tablespoonful  seasoning  salt,  add  it  to  the 
onions  in  saucepan,  cover  and  cook  over  slow  fire  2Yo  hours,  adding 
a  little  water  now  and  then.  When  the  meat  is  tender,  dust  over  1 
tablespoonful  flour,  mix  well ;  then  add  1  cupful  broth,  cook  10 
minutes,  and  serve. 

Corned  Beef. ‚Äî The  pieces  of  beef  that  are  mostly  used  for 
corned  beef  are  the  rump,  brisket,  and  plate. 

Corned  Beef‚Äî How  to  boil.‚Äî Wash  the  meat  well,  place  it 
over  the  fire  with  cold  water,  carefully  remove  the  scum  as  it  rises 
to  the  surface  of  the  water,  boil  it  slowly  (allowing  Yg  hour  for  each 
pound).  If  a  large  piece  of  corned  beef  is  to  be  cooked,  it  is  a  good 
plan  to  boil  it  the  day  before  (a  piece  of  12  pounds  will  take  fully  6 
hours'  boiling) ;  let  it  get  cold  in  the  liquor,  then  take  it  out.  The 
next  day,  if  the  meat  is  to  be  served  hot,  put  the  liquor  over  the  fire, 
and  when  it  boils  put  in  the  meat ;  let  it  remain  Yg  hour  without 
boiling,  then  serve.  Boiled  vegetables  are  generally  served  with 
corned  beef,  such  as  carrots  and  small  white  turnips,  and  laid 
around  it.  The  vegetables  may  be  boiled  in  the  corned-beef  liquor 
or  separate. 

Corned  Beef  with  Suet  Dumplings.‚Äî Boil  a  piece  of  corned 
beef  as  directed  in  foregoing  recipe.  Prepare  the  dumplings  of  Yg 
cup  fine-minced  suet,  2  cups  prepared  flour,  1  egg,  Ys  cup  cold 
water,  mix  all  well  together  into  a  stiif  dough  ;  cut  with  a  tablespoon 
dumplings  from  this,  and  boil  with  the  corned  beef.  As  soon  as  the 
dumplings  are  done,  they  must  be  removed  immediately  with  a 
skimmer  (this  may  be  known  by  cutting  one  through ‚Äî if  dry  inside, 
it  is  done ;  if  not,  a  little  more  boiling  is  necessary.  Time  for  boil- 
ing is  from  4  to  6  minutes).  Eemove  the  meat  to  a  hot  dish, 
and  lay  the  dumplings  around  it.  Small  boiled  carrots  and  white 
turnips  may  also  be  boiled  in  the  beef  liquor  and  served  with  the 


MEATS.  257 

meat.     Send  horseradish  sauce  to  table  with  it.     Corned  beef  may 
also  be  served  with  cauliflower  (see  Cauliflowee). 

Corned  Beef  and  Cabbage.‚Äî The  corned  beef  is  boiled  as  in 
foregoing  number.  Eemove  the  outside  leaves  of  a  nice  head  of 
cabbage,  cut  it  into  4  pieces,  place  it  in  a  saucepan  of  boiling  water, 
add  1  tablespoonf  ul  sugar,  and  boil  1  hour ;  drain  in  a  colander,  and 
return  the  cabbage  to  the  saucepan,  cover  with  corned-beef  liquor, 
and  boil  till  tender,  which  will  take  Yg  hour.  When  the  meat  is  ready 
to  serve,  remove  to  a  heated  dish ;  drain  cabbage  in  colander,  and 
serve  in  separate  dish  with  the  meat. 

Beef  Rouladen,  No.  1. ‚Äî Take  IV2  pound  of  beef  from  the  upper 
round,  cut  it  into  4  thin  slices  Yg  of  an  inch  thick,  7  inches  long,  6 
inches  wide,  season  with  Y2  tablespoonful  salt,  Y2  teaspoonful  pepper. 
Chop  fine  4  ounces  lean  beef  and  4  ounces  fresh  lean  pork  ;  soak  2 
slices  bread  in  cold  water  10  minutes,  inclose  it  in  a  towel  and  press 
out  all  the  water,  then  measure  it ;  there  should  be  1  cup.  Melt  1 
ounce  butter  in  a  saucepan,  add  1  heaping  tablespoonful  fine-chopped 
onion,  cook  6  minutes  without  browning ;  add  the  bread,  stir  and 
cook  3  minutes;  then  remove.  When  cold  mix  it  with  the  fine- 
chopped  meat,  season  with  1  teaspoonful  salt,  Y2  teaspoonful  pepper, 
and  Y*  teaspoonful  nutmeg;  divide  this  forcemeat  into  4  equal 
parts,  place  on  each  piece  1  portion  of  the  forcemeat,  spread  it 
evenly  over,  then  roll  up  lengthwise,  tie  3  strings  around  each,  and 
roll  in  flour.  Place  a  wide  saucepan  with  4  ounces  fine-cut  suet 
over  the  fire,  and  fry  till  crisp ;  then  put  in  the  rouladen,  turn  fre- 
quently, and  fry  till  they  become  a  nice  brown  all  around ;  then 
add  1  cupful  soup  stock  or  boiling  water,  also  1  fine-chopped  onion, 
a  few  slices  of  carrots,  cover  and  cook  slowly  IY2  hour.  When 
done,  put  the  rouladen  on  a  warm  dish,  remove  the  strings,  also  the 
fat  from  the  gravy ;  mix  Y2  tablespoonful  cornstarch  with  a  little 
cold  water,  add  it  to  the  gravy  ;  add  sufiicient  boiling  water  or  stock 
to  make  a  creamy  sauce,  boil  5  minutes,  then  strain ;  add  a  little 
beef  extract  and  a  small  piece  of  butter ;  pour  a  few  spoonfuls  over 


258  MEATS. 

the  rolls  and  serve  the  remainder  in  a  sauce  bowl.  Serve  with 
boiled  potatoes  and  boiled  cabbage ;  or  any  other  kind  of  vegetables 
may  be  served  with  it ;  or  send  apple  sauce  and  boiled  potatoes  to 
table  with  it.     (Sufficient  for  a  family  of  6.) 

Beef  Rouladen,  No.  2. ‚Äî Take  lYg  pound  of  beef  off  the  upper 
round  or  lower  sirloin,  cut  the  meat  into  6  thin  slices  4  inches  square, 
season  them  with  Yg  tablespoonf  ul  salt,  Yg  teaspoonf  ul  pepper,  spread 
1  teaspoonful  grated  onion  over  each  square,  lay  3  strips  of  larding 
pork  over  each  piece  of  meat  of  Y*  inch  in  thickness,  roll  the  pieces 
up,  tie  them  firmly,  roll  them  in  flour,  and  finish  the  same  as  in 
foregoing  recipe.  Serve  with  mashed  potatoes  and  stewed  toma- 
toes. 

Kloppse. ‚Äî For  a  family  of  6  take  Ys  pound  fine-chopped  lean 
beef,  Ys  pound  fresh  lean  pork  (the  best  is  to  take  1  or  3  pork  chops 
and  mince  them  fine),  4  ounces  fine-chopped  larding  pork.  Soak  4 
slices  bread  in  water  10  minutes,  inclose  and  press  it  out  in  a  towel 
then  measure  (there  should  be  1  pint).  Melt  1  ounce  butter  and  3 
tablespoonfuls  fine-minced  onion,  cook  6  minutes  without  brown- 
ing; then  add  the  bread,  stir  and  cook  5  minutes;  remove,  and 
when  cold  mix  it  with  the  meat,  add  3  well-beaten  eggs,  1  even 
tablespoonful  salt,  1  even  teaspoonful  pepper,  Y2  teaspoonful  nut- 
meg. Mix  well  together;  divide  the  preparation  into  13  equal 
parts,  roll  each  into  a  round  ball  (wetting  the  hands  in  cold  water 
while  rolling,  to  make  the  balls  perfectly  smooth),  then  roll  in  flour. 
Place  a  saucepan  with  3  quarts  boiling  water  over  the  fire,  add  1 
onion,  Y2  tablespoonful  salt,  Y2  fine-cut  carrot,  and  a  bouquet ;  as 
soon  as  it  boils  put  in  the  balls,  cook  15  minutes ;  then  remove  with 
a  skimmer  to  a  warm  dish.  Serve  with  the  following  sauce : 
Melt  1  tablespoonful  beef  drippings  in  a  saucepan ;  add  3  table- 
spoonfuls  fine-chopped  onion,  cook  6  minutes  without  browning; 
add  Y2  tablespoonful  flour,  stir  for  a  few  minutes,  add  1  cupful  of 
the  boiling  broth,  a  little  beef  extract;  season  with  Y2  ¬©'^en  tea- 
spoonful salt,  Y4  teaspoonful  pepper,  1  tablespoonful  sugar,  3  table- 


MEATS.  259 

spoonfuls  vinegar,  boil  3  minutes,  and  serve  with  the  kloppse.  Serve 
with  potatoes  boiled  with  their  skin.  In  place  of  onion  sauce,  the  fol- 
lowing sauces  may  be  served  :  anchovy,  tomato,  or  horseradish. 

Falscher  Hase^  or  Mock  Hare. ‚Äî Half  a  pound  fine-chopped 
veal,  Ya  pound  fine-chopped  beef,  Yg  pound  lean  fresh  pork,  4  ounces 
larding  pork,  all  chopped  fine ;  4  ounces  stale  bread  without  the 
rind,  2  yolks  and  1  whole  egg,  2  tablespoonfuls  fine-chopped  onions, 
IY2  even  tablespoonful  salt,  1  teaspoonful  pepper,  1  teaspoonful 
nutmeg  (if  handy,  a  little  fine-chopped  green  thyme  or  marjoram). 
Soak  the  bread  in  cold  water  10  minutes,  inclose  in  a  towel,  press 
out  all  the  water ;  melt  IY2  ounce  butter  in  a  saucepan,  add  the 
fine-chopped  onion,  cook  6  minutes  without  browning ;  then  add  the 
bread,  stir  and  cook  5  minutes ;  remove,  and  when  cold  mix  it  with 
the  meats,  the  seasoning,  and  well-beaten  eggs ;  work  this  well  to- 
gether ;  then  lay  on  a  board,  form  into  a  long  loaf,  wet  the  hands 
and  make  it  smooth  all  over,  brush  it  over  with  beaten  egg,  cover 
with  fine  bread  crumbs,  then  lard  the  top  with  fine  strips  of  larding 
pork.  Place  3  slices  of  larding  pork  with  the  roll  on  top  in  a  bak- 
ing pan ;  pour  1  ounce  melted  butter  over  the  roll  and  2  table- 
spoonfuls  water  in  the  bottom  of  pan,  set  in  the  oven  and  bake  1 
hour  (if  it  should  get  too  brown,  cover  with  buttered  paper) ;  when 
done,  transfer  the  mock  hare  to  a  warm  dish ;  add  to  the  gravy  in 
pan  after  removing  the  pork  Y2  tablespoonful  flour ;  stir  for  a  few 
minutes  on  top  the  stove,  add  Y2  piiit  of  stock  or  boiling  water,  with 
%  teaspoonful  beef  extract,  cook  3  minutes,  then  strain.  Season 
with  salt,  pepper,  and  the  juice  of  Ya  lemon ;  add  Y2  ounce  butter 
and  1  tablespoonful  fine-chopped  parsley,  pour  a  few  spoonfuls 
gravy  over  the  mock  hare,  and  serve  the  remainder  in  a  sauce  bowl. 
Garnish  the  mock  hare  with  fried  tomatoes  and  patricia  potatoes. 
Note  :  The  meat  must  be  ground  or  chopped  exceedingly  fine  and  all 
stringy  parts  rejected  ;  also  the  onions  should  be  chopped  very  fine. 

Meat  Pudding. ‚Äî One  pound  fine-chopped  lean  beef,  1  pound 
fine-chopped  veal,  Y2  pound  fine-minced  larding  pork,  1  tablespoon- 


260  MEATS. 

ful  salt,  1  teaspoonful  pepper,  Y2  teaspoonful  nutmeg,  3  well-beaten 
eggs,  4  ounces  stale  bread,  1  grated  onion ;  soak  the  bread  in 
cold  water  10  minutes,  inclose  it  in  a  towel  and  press  out  all  the 
water.  Melt  1  tablespoonful  butter  in  a  saucepan,  add  the  bread, 
stir  and  cook  5  minutes,  then  remove.  When  cold  mix  it  with  the 
above-named  ingredients,  butter  a  pudding  form,  sprinkle  it  with 
bread  crumbs,  put  in  the  preparation,  pack  it  down  firmly ;  close 
the  form  tightly,  set  it  in  a  vessel  with  boiling  water  to  reach  one 
third  up  the  form,  cover  and  boil  2  hours.  When  ready  to  serve 
turn  the  pudding  on  to  a  dish,  and  serve  with  either  mushroom, 
anchovy,  tomato,  caper,  Hollandaise,  or  horseradish  sauce.  Serve 
mashed  potatoes  and  any  kind  of  vegetables  in  season  with  it. 

Smoked  Beef  Tongue,  Boiled. ‚Äî If  the  tongue  is  very  dry 
soak  it  over  night  in  cold  water ;  in  the  morning  place  over  the 
fire  with  cold  water,  and  boil  slowly  till  done ;  leave  it  in  the  liquor 
till  cold.  Take  it  out,  remove  the  thick  skin,  cut  the  tongue  in 
thin  slices,  arrange  neatly  on  a  dish,  and  garnish  with  parsley  or 
scraped  horseradish,  and  serve  for  tea  or  lunch. 

Beef  Tongue  a  la  Financiere. ‚Äî Place  a  well-washed  fresh 
beef  tongue  in  a  soup  kettle,  add  some  soup  bones  and,  if  handy, 
a  shank  of  veal,  set  the  kettle  over  the  fire  ;  as  soon  as  it  boils  add 
1  tablespoonful  salt,  Yg  tablespoonful  pepper,  2  onions,  1  carrot,  a 
bouquet,  1  leek,  12  whole  peppers,  cover  and  cook  from  3  to  4 
hours.  When  done  take  out  the  tongue,  remove  the  skin,  trim 
nicely,  lay  on  a  hot  dish.  Have  in  the  meantime  a  financiere  sauce 
prepared,  pour  a  little  over  the  tongue,  garnish  with  timbales  of 
spinach  and  small  cooked  potato  balls.  Serve  with  the  remaining 
sauce  in  a  sauce  bowl. 

Beef  Tongue  with  Baisin  Sauce.‚Äî Boil  a  fresh  beef  tongue 
as  in  foregoing  recipe.  When  done  pare  off  the  skin,  remove  all 
black  and  hard  parts,  cut  the  tongue  into  y4-inch-thick  slices,  put  it 
in  its  original  form  on  a  warm  dish.  Have  in  the  meantime  a 
raisin  sauce  prepared ;  pour  a  few  tablespoonfuls  sauce  over  the 


MEATS.  261 

tongue,  and  garnish  with  small  potato  dumplings  and  boiled  chest- 
nuts. Serve  with  the  sauce;  or  put  the  slices  in  the  sauce,  let 
them  stand  for  10  minutes,  then  serve  and  garnish  with  farina 
dumplings. 

Beef  Tongue  a  la  Jardiniere. ‚Äî Boil  a  fresh  beef  tongue  as  a 
la  financi^re  ;  dress  the  prepared  tongue  on  a  warm  dish,  pour  over 
and  around  the  dish  1  pint  of  cooked  carrot  balls  and  1  pint  of  cooked 
green  peas,  sprinkle  over  1  tablespoonful  parsley,  and  serve  with 
boiled  potatoes  ;  or  lay  small  boiled  potatoes  in  a  circle  around  the 
dish.  Any  kind  of  vegetables  in  season  may  be  taken  in  place  of 
the  above. 

Boiled  Beef  Tongue  a  la  Frankfurt.‚Äî Boil  and  prepare  a 
fresh  beef  tongue  the  same  as  tongue  a  la  financi^re,  and  garnish 
with  cooked  red  cabbage  ;  serve  with  Spanish  sauce. 

Beef  Tongue^  Salted. ‚Äî Take  a  fresh  beef  tongue,  rub  it  all 
over  with  plenty  of  salt  and  as  much  saltpeter  as  will  lie  on  a  5- 
cent  piece,  lay  the  tongue  into  a  deep  dish  and  se^t  it  4  days  in  a 
cool  place,  turning  it  once  or  twice  during  that  time  ;  it  is  then 
ready  to  be  boiled. 

Beef  Tongue  Bagout. ‚Äî Place  a  well- washed  fresh  tongue  in  a 
saucepan  over  the  fire,  cover  with  cold  water ;  as  soon  as  it  boils 
add  1  tablespoonful  salt,  1  teaspoonful  pepper,  2  onions,  and  a  bou- 
quet, cover  and  boil  slowly  from  SYg  to  3  hours.  When  done  take 
out  the  tongue,  remove  the  skin,  cut  into  Y4-inch-thick  slices,  put 
the  slices  in  a  saucepan  with  a  little  of  their  broth  to  keep  warm. 
Melt  2  ounces  butter  in  a  saucepan,  add  Yg  cupful  fine-cut  onions, 
cook  6  minutes,  or  until  they  have  obtained  a  light-brown  color ; 
then  add  2  tablespoonfuls  flour,  stir  for  a  few  minutes ;  add  IY2 
pint  of  the  tongue  broth,  IY2  teaspoonful  beef  extract,  Y2  cupful 
sherry  wine,  cook  5  minutes  ;  then  strain  into  a  clean  saucepan, 
add  Yz  can  mushrooms,  Y4  teaspoonful  pepper,  cook  15  minutes ; 
then  add  the  slices  of  tongue  without  their  broth,  add  18  small 
cooked  forcemeat  balls,  and  a  little  sugar  color.     Serve  on  a  warm 


262  MEATS. 

dish  and  garnish  with  a  border  of  rice,  boiled  spaghetti,  nudles,  or 
fleurons. 

Boiled  Corned  Beef  Tongue. ‚Äî Take  a  corned  tongue,  fasten 
the  pointed  end  to  the  root  of  the  tongue  with  a  skewer,  and  tie 
firmly  with  a  string,  to  keep  the  tongue  in  a  perfect  shape ;  then 
place  it  in  a  saucepan,  cover  with  cold  water,  and  boil  slowly  from 
2Y3  to  3  hours.  When  done  take  the  tongue  from  the  saucepan,  re- 
move the  skin  and  trim  neatly ;  place  in  a  baking  pan  with  Y2  pint 
of  broth  or  stock ;  set  in  a  hot  oven  to  roast  20  minutes,  basting  fre- 
quently. In  the  meantime  melt  1  ounce  butter  in  a  saucepan,  add 
2  tablespoonf  uls  fine-cut  onions,  the  same  of  carrots,  stir  and  cook  5 
minutes;  add  1  tablespoonful  flour,  stir  2  minutes;  add  Y2  pint 
stock  or  boiling  water  with  a  little  beef  extract,  also  the  gravy  from 
the  tongue,  1  gill  of  mushroom  liquor,  1  even  teaspoonful  salt,  % 
teaspoonful  pepper,  cook  5  minutes ;  then  strain  (if  the  sauce  should 
not  be  brown  enough,  add  a  little  sugar  color) ;  pour  1  gill  of  sauce 
over  the  tongue,  then  place  it  on  a  warm  dish ;  lay  a  border  of 
spinach  a  la  ere  me  around  it,  and  serve  with  the  remaining  sauce 
and  boiled  potatoes ;  or  the  potatoes  may  be  arranged  on  top  the 
spinach. 

Beef  Liyer,  Fried. ‚Äî Procure  V-j^  pound  of  beef  liver  cut  into 
slices,  wipe  with  a  cloth,  season  with  1  even  tablespoonful  salt,  Yg 
teaspoonful  pepper,  and  dust  with  flour ;  melt  1  tablespoonful  lard 
and  Ys  tablespoonful  butter  in  a  frying  pan ;  when  hot  add  as  many 
of  the  slices  of  liver  as  will  conveniently  go  in,  fry  light  brown  on 
both  sides,  about  6  minutes  on  each  (the  liver  should  be  well  done, 
but  not  dried  up ;  when  done  cut  a  piece ;  if  rare  it  must  cook  a 
little  longer).  Serve  with  Lyonnaise  or  baked  potatoes.  Some  fine 
slices  of  bacon  may  be  fried,  and  the  liver  in  the  bacon  fat ;  then 
serve  with  the  bacon.     In  place  of  lard,  beef  fat  may  be  taken. 

Beef  Kidney  Saute. ‚Äî Cut  a  beef  kidney  lengthwise  in  two, 
remove  the  white  fatty  part  from  the  center,  cut  the  kidney  into 
small  pieces ;  season  with  1  tablespoonful  salt,  1  even  teaspoonful 


MEATS.  263 

pepper,  mix  the  seasoning  well  with  the  kidney.  Melt '2  ounces 
butter  in  a  saucepan,  add  2  heaping  tablespoonfuls  fine-chopped 
onion,  cook  4  minutes  without  browning ;  add  the  kidney,  cover 
and  cook  5  minutes ;  sprinkle  over  1  teaspoonf ul  flour,  add  1  gill  of 
sherry  wine,  1  gill  of  boiling  water,  and  Yg  teaspoonful  beef  extract, 
cook  5  minutes  longer ;  then  serve  on  a  warm  dish  garnished  with 
bread  croutons  or  rice  timbales. 

Beef  Kidney  Bouchees. ‚Äî Split  a  beef  kidney  in  two,  remove 
every  particle  of  fat  and  stringy  part,  wash  and  wipe  the  kidneys 
dry,  then  chop  fine.  Place  a  saucepan  with  lYg  ounce  butter  over 
the  fire,  add  2  tablespoonfuls  fine-chopped  onion,  cook  6  minutes  ; 
then  add  the  chopped  kidney,  cover,  and  cook  5  minutes ;  add  Yg 
cupful  sherry  wine,  1  even  tablespoonful  salt,  1  even  teaspoonful 
pepper,  cover,  and  cook  5  minutes ;  sprinkle  over  1  even  table- 
spoonful  flour,  mix  well,  add  1  cupful  boiling  milk,  continue  to 
cook  for  a  few  minutes ;  have  ready  6  small  bouchee  cases  of  puff 
paste,  heat  them  in  the  oven,  then  fill  with  the  preparation  and 
serve  for  bouchee.     (See  my  book  Desserts  and  Salads,  recipe  711.) 

Beef  Kidney,  Boiled. ‚Äî Split  a  beef  kidney  in  half,  remove  the 
white  fatty  part  in  center,  then  wash  and  place  the  kidney  in  a 
saucepan  ;  cover  with  boiling  water,  add  1  onion,  a  small  bouquet, 
1  even  tablespoonful  salt,  a  few  slices  of  carrots,  1  even  teaspoonful 
pepper.     Cover  and  boil  slowly  lYs  hour,  and  cool  in  the  broth. 

Beef  Kidney  on  Toast. ‚Äî Boil  a  beef  kidney  as  in  foregoing 
recipe.  Place  a  saucepan  with  1  fine-chopped  onion  over  the  fire,  add 
1  ounce  butter,  cook  5  minutes  without  browning  ;  add  1  tablespoon- 
ful flour,  cook  2  minutes ;  add  1  pint  boiled  milk,  a  small  bouquet,  1 
even  teaspoonful  salt,  Y*  teaspoonful  white  pepper,  cook  6  minutes ; 
then  strain,  add  the  fine-chopped  kidneys  to  the  sauce,  cook  a  few 
minutes ;  add  a  small  piece  of  butter,  pour  over  4  slices  of  buttered 
toast,  and  serve.  A  plainer  way  is  to  chop  the  boiled  kidney  fine, 
place  it  in  a  saucepan,  cover  with  1  pint  milk,  mix  1  tablespoonful 
flour  with  1  tablespoonful  butter ;  as  soon  as  the  milk  boils,  put  in 


264  MEATS. 

the  butter  and  flour,  stir  and  boil  till  smooth ;  season  with  pepper 
and  salt,  and  pour  over  toast. 

Beef  Kidney  a  la  Baden-Baden.‚Äî Split  a  beef  kidney  in  half, 
remove  the  white  fat  and  all  stringy  parts,  cut  the  kidney  in  small 
Y4-inch-square  pieces.  Place  a  saucepan  over  the  fire,  add  2  ounces 
butter ;  as  soon  as  hot,  put  in  the  kidney,  season  with  1  even  table- 
spoonful  salt,  1  even  teaspoonf  ul  pepper,  stir  and  cook  5  minutes ; 
add  2  tablespoonfuls  fine-cut  mushrooms,  the  same  of  truffles, 
and  Y2  cupful  sherry  wine,  cover,  and  cook  6  minutes;  mix  the 
yolks  of  2  eggs  with  Yg  pint  of  rich  sweet  cream,  add  it  to  the  kid- 
neys, stir  and  beat  till  nearly  boiling,  add  a  little  Cayenne  pepper, 
and  serve  on  a  warm  dish.  Garnish  with  fleurons,  or  serve  on 
buttered  toast.  (For  fleurons,  see  my  book  Desserts  and  Salads, 
recipe  721.) 

Fried  Tripe  a  la  Mariniere.‚Äî Wash  IY2  pound  tripe,  cut 
it  into  pieces  4  inches  long  and  2  inches  wide,  season  with  1  even 
tablespoonful  salt,  1  even  teaspoonful  pepper.  Place  the  tripe  in  a 
bowl,  mix  1  pint  vinegar  with  Y2  pint  water,  pour  it  over ;  add  1 
sliced  onion,  3  cloves,  1  bay  leaf,  a  blade  of  mace,  and  12  whole 
peppers,  cover  and  let  it  stand  24  hours,  or  longer.  When  ready  to 
cook  take  out  the  tripe,  wipe  dry,  and  dust  with  flour;  beat  2  eggs 
in  a  soupplate  till  light,  take  each  piece  of  tripe  separately  on  a 
fork,  dip  it  in  the  beaten  egg,  then  cover  with  fine  sifted  bread 
crumbs.  When  all  are  prepared  thus,  place  a  frying  pan  over  the 
fire,  add  Ys  tablespoonful  lard  or  fat ;  as  soon  as  hot  lay  in  as  many 
tripe  pieces  as  will  conveniently  go  in,  fry  light  brown  on  both  sides 
When  all  are  done,  arrange  the  tripe  on  a  warm  dish,  garnish  with 
water  cress ;  serve  with  French  fried  potatoes  and  hot  biscuits. 

Tripe  a  la  Maitre  d'Hotel. ‚Äî Cut  IY2  pound  well  washed 
and  dried  tripe  into  pieces  2  inches  wide  and  4  inches  long.  Mix  3 
tablespoonfuls  olive  oil  with  3  tablespoonfuls  fine-chopped  onion, 
the  juice  of  1  lemon,  1  even  tablespoonful  salt,  1  even  teaspoonful 
pepper ;  pour  this  over  the  tripe  and  mix  it  well  together ;  add  Y¬´ 


MEATS.  265 

bunch  fresh  parsley,  2  cloves,  and  a  sprig  of  thyme,  cover  and  let  it 
stand  2  hours.  When  ready  to  cook  wipe  the  tripe  off  with  a  clean 
towel  on  both  sides,  dust  it  with  flour,  dip  each  piece  into  beaten 
egg  and  cover  with  fresh-grated  bread  crumbs ;  fry  light  brown  in 
lard  or  fat.  Arrange  the  tripe  on  a  hot  dish  and  spread  2  ounces 
maitre  d'hdtel  butter  over  them,  and  serve  with  Saratoga  chips. 

Tripe  h  I'Espagnole. ‚Äî Place  a  saucepan  with  3  tablespoon- 
fuls  oil  or  2  ounces  butter  over  the  fire,  add  Y2  cupful  fine-chopped 
onion,  Y3  fine-chopped  green  pepper,  1  bruised  clove  of  garlic,  cook 
5  minutes  without  browning  (if  Jiandy,  add  Yg  cupful  fine-chopped 
mushrooms).  Wash  and  cut  IY3  pound  tripe  into  inch-sized  pieces, 
season  with  1  even  tablespoonful  salt,  Y2  teaspoonful  pepper ;  mix 
the  tripe  well  with  the  seasoning;  add  them  to  the  saucepan,  cover, 
and  cook  10  minutes  ;  add  2  fine-cut  tomatoes,  cook  5  minutes,  dust 
over  1  teaspoonful  flour,  add  1  cupful  boiling  water  with  1  teaspoon- 
ful beef  extract,  cook  a  few  minutes  longer  ;  then  serve  on  a  warm 
dish ;  sprinkle  over  1  teaspoonful  fine-chopped  parsley. 

Stewed  Tripe. ‚Äî Cut  IY2  pound  well- washed  tripe  into  small 
narrow  strips  1  inch  long  and  Y4  inch  wide.  Place  a  saucepan  with 
2  ounces  butter  over  the  fire,  add  1  fine-chopped  onion,  cook  5  min- 
utes ;  season  the  tripe  with  1  even  tablespoonful  salt,  1  even  tea- 
spoonful pepper,  add  the  tripe,  cover,  and  cook  10  minutes.  Melt 
1  ounce  butter  in  a  small  saucepan,  add  Y2  tablespoonful  flour,  stir 
and  cook  2  minutes;  add  Yg  pint  white  broth  (if  handy,  add  a  little 
mushroom  liquor),  a  small  bouquet,  1  even  teaspoonful  salt,  cook  6 
minutes.  Mix  the  yolks  of  2  eggs  with  the  juice  of  Ys  lemon,  add 
it  to  the  sauce,  remove  the  bouquet,  add  the  sauce  to  the  tripe,  pour 
it  on  to  a  warm  dish ;  sprinkle  over  1  tablespoonful  fine-chopped 
parsley.     Garnish  with  small  potato  balls  and  serve. 

Ox  Tail  a  la  Printanier. ‚Äî Cut  2  large  ox  tails  at  the  joints 
into  2-inch  lengths,  place  them  in  a  kettle  of  boiling  water,  drain 
and  cool  in  cold  water.  Cover  the  bottom  of  a  saucepan  with  2 
ounces  fine-cut  salt  pork,  Yg  slice  of  thin  ham,  add  2  onions,  1  carrot. 


266  MEATS. 

a  small  shank  of  veal  cut  into  pieces,  and  a  bouquet ;  lay  the  ox  tails 
on  top  of  this,  add  Yg  tablespoonful  salt,  1  teaspoonful  pepper,  cover 
with  cold  water,  and  boil  3  hours.  Remove  the  ox  tails,  strain  the 
broth,  put  a  little  of  the  broth  over  the  ox  tails,  and  set  in  a  warm 
place  ;  reduce  the  remaining  broth  by  boiling  to  1  pint.  Lay  the 
ox  tails  in  a  roasting  pan,  pour  over  the  reduced  broth,  set  the  pan 
in  a  hot  oven,  roast  and  baste  frequently  till  it  has  obtained  a  glaze, 
which  will  take  about  25  minutes.  Melt  2  ounces  butter  in  a  sauce- 
pan, add  1  heaping  tablespoonful  flour,  stir  3  minutes,  add  the  gravy 
from  the  ox  tails ;  then  add  sufficient  boiling  water  to  make  a  creamy 
sauce;  add  a  small  piece  of  butter,  a  little  paprika,  and  the  juice 
of  Ya  lemon.  Pour  the  sauce  over  the  ox  tails,  and  garnish  with 
cooked  carrots,  cauliflower  roses,  green  peas,  asparagus  tops,  and  wax 
beans  cut  diamond  shape.     Serve  with  small  boiled  potatoes. 

Ox-tail  Stew  a  la  Mexlcaine. ‚Äî Cut  2  ox  tails  into  2-inch 
lengths,  scald  in  boiling  water,  and  cool  in  cold  water.  Melt  1  ounce 
butter  in  a  saucepan,  add  2  fine-cut  onions,  1  clove  of  bruised  garlic, 
1  fine-chopped  green  pepper  without  the  seeds,  1  fine-cut  carrot,  cook 
6  minutes  ;  season  the  ox  tails  with  1  tablespoonful  salt,  1  teaspoon- 
ful pepper;  mix  well  with  the  seasoning,  add  to  the  saucepan,  stir 
and  cook  10  minutes ;  then  cover  with  boiling  water,  cover  and  cook 
2Y3  hours.  Put  1  quart  fine-cut  string  beans  with  boiling  water 
and  1  teaspoonful  salt  over  the  fire,  cook  30  minutes ;  then  drain, 
add  them  to  the  ox  tails,  add  3  peeled  sweet  potatoes  cut  into  quarters, 
3  large  peeled  potatoes  cut  also  in  quarters,  Y2  pi^it  fine-cut  white  tur- 
nips, Y2  piiit  small  white  onions,  cover  and  cook  till  done.  Then 
melt  1  tablespoonful  of  butter  in  a  saucepan  with  1  tablespoonful 
flour,  stir  and  cook  2  minutes ;  add  IY2  cupful  of  the  ox- tail  broth, 
cook  a  few  minutes ;  then  add  it  to  the  stew,  and  serve.  In  place 
of  butter  the  Spanish  people  take  oil. 

Stewed  Ox  Tails  with  Cabbage.‚Äî Cut  2  ox  tails  at  the 
joints  into  3-inch  lengths  ;  place  in  a  saucepan,  cover  with  boiling 
water,  let  remain  5  minutes,  then  drain ;  pour  fresh  cold  water  over, 


MEATS.  267 

and  when  cold  remove  and  drain  again.  Place  a  saucepan  with  3 
ounces  fine-cut  larding  pork  and  2  ounces  fine-cut  raw  ham  over  the 
fire,  add  1  fine-cut  carrot,  2  fine-cut  onions,  cook  and  stir  6  minutes ; 
then  put  in  the  ox  tails,  season  with  1  even  tablespoonf  ul  salt,  Y^  even 
tablespoonful  pepper,  cover  with  white  broth,  and  add  a  bouquet ; 
cover  and  cook  slowly  3  hours.  Eemove  the  ox  tails  to  a  clean  sauce- 
pan, strain  the  broth  over,  and  keep  warm  on  side  of  stove.  Melt  2 
ounces  butter  in  a  saucepan,  add  lYg  tablespoonful  flour,  stir  a  few 
minutes  ;  add  3  cupfuls  broth  from  the  ox  tails,  1  teaspoonful  beef 
extract,  cook  5  minutes ;  season  with  74  teaspoonful  pepper,  Y2  tea- 
spoonful  nutmeg,  drain  the  ox  tails,  put  them  on  a  hot  dish,  pour 
the  sauce  over,  and  garnish  the  dish  with  cabbage  rolls  and  slices  of 
boiled  bacon. 

Cabbage  Eolls. ‚Äî Cut  a  good-sized  head  of  cabbage  into  6 
pieces,  put  them  in  a  kettle  of  boiling  water,  boil  3  minutes,  then 
remove  and  drain  ;  remove  the  center  from  each  piece  of  cabbage, 
and  set  aside ;  tie  the  pieces  with  a  string  into  long  rolls,  place  in  a 
saucepan,  cover  with  boiling  water,  add  1  tablespoonful  sugar,  cook 
1  hour ;  then  drain  the  cabbage,  return  it  to  saucepan,  add  1  pint 
of  the  ox-tail  broth,  a  piece  of  butter,  and  cook  till  tender.  At  the 
same  time  have  4  ounces  of  lean  bacon  boiled,  lay  the  cabbage  rolls 
in  a  circle  around  the  dish,  and  lay  a  thin  slice  of  bacon  on  top  of 
each  cabbage  roll. 

Smoked  Beef  a  la  Bechamel.‚Äî Melt  1  ounce  butter  in  a 
saucepan,  add  Y2  tablespoonful  flour,  cook  and  stir  3  minutes ;  add 
1  cup  of  milk,  a  small  bouquet,  1  gill  of  mushroom  liquor,  Y4  tea- 
spoonful white  pepper,  6  whole  peppers,  cook  6  minutes ;  then 
strain  into  a  clean  saucepan.  Place  Y2  pound  smoked  beef  in  a 
saucepan,  cover  with  boiling  water,  let  it  cook  2  minutes ;  then 
drain  and  chop  fine ;  add  the  beef  to  the  sauce,  cook  for  a  few 
minutes ;  then  pour  over  4  slices  of  buttered  toast,  and  serve. 

Gulash  of  Beef. ‚Äî Take  2  pounds  of  beef  from  the  round,  cut 
it  into  inch-sized  pieces ;  place  a  saucepan  over  the  fire  with  1 
18 


268  MEATS. 

tablespoouful  butter  and  1  tablespoonful  beef  fat;  add  3  large 
onions  cut  into  slices  and  fry  them  light  brown  ;  season  the  meat 
with  1  even  tablespoonful  salt  and  1  even  teaspoonful  pepper,  put  it 
in  a  saucepan  over  the  fire,  cover  tightly  and  stew  slowly  2  hours  ; 
stir  frequently,  and  add  by  degrees  a  little  boiling  water.  Shortly 
before  serving  dash  over  a  little  flour  and  add  a  pinch  of  Cayenne 
pepper.  Serve  on  a  heated  dish  with  mashed  potatoes  and  stewed 
tomatoes,  or  serve  with  rice  timbales. 

Marrow  Bones  on  Toast. ‚Äî Cut  some  marrow  bones  into 
lengths  from  3  to  4  inches  long,  wrap  them  separately  in  a  cloth, 
place  them  in  a  saucepan  of  boiling  salted  water,  boil  slowly  about 
25  minutes ;  then  remove,  take  off  the  cloth,  arrange  the  bones  on 
a  dish  in  the  folds  of  a  napkin,  and  serve  with  toasted  bread.  An- 
other way  to  serve  is  to  take  the  marrow  from  the  bones  and  lay  it 
over  the  toast. 

Beefs  Heart,  Stuffed. ‚Äî Remove  the  muscles  from  the  inside 
of  a  beef's  heart,  wash  it  well,  wipe  dry  and  stuff  it  with  sausage 
forcemeat,  tie  it  with  a  strong  string,  and  finish  the  same  as  beef 
heart,  potted. 

Beef  Heart  a  la  Mariniere. ‚Äî Lard  a  well-cleaned  beef  heart 
with  larding  pork  the  same  as  for  sour  roast;  season  with  1  even 
tablespoonful  salt,  1  teaspoonful  pepper ;  place  in  a  deep  bowl  or 
stone  jar,  cover  with  1  pint  vinegar,  Yg  pint  water ;  add  2  fine-sliced 
onions,  2  bay  leaves,  12  whole  peppers,  1  blade  of  mace,  and  4  cloves, 
cover  and  let  it  stand  3  days,  turning  it  once  each  day.  When  ready 
to  cook  place  a  saucepan  with  2  ounces  fine-cut  larding  pork  over 
the  fire,  fry  light  brown  ;  add  2  ounces  butter.  Take  the  heart  out 
of  the  marinade,  wipe  it  dry,  put  it  in  the  saucepan,  turn  often  and 
cook  till  light  brown ;  then  add  the  marinade  the  heart  laid  in, 
add  2  tablespoonfuls  sugar,  cover  and  cook  slowly  3  hours.  "When 
done  lay  the  heart  on  a  warm  dish  ;  strain  the  gravy,  mix  1  table- 
spoonful cornstarch  with  a  little  cold  water,  add  it  to  the  gravy, 
cook  3  minutes  (if  too  thick  add  some  boiling  water)  ;  strain  and 


MEATS.  269 

serve  with  the  meat.     Serve  with  potato  dumplings  and  stewed 
prunes. 

Beef  Heart,  Potted. ‚Äî Season  a  well- washed  beef  heart  with 
Y2  tablespoonful  salt  and  Y2  teaspoonful  pepper.  Place  a  saucepan 
with  2  ounces  fine-cut  larding  pork  over  the  fire,  fry  light  brown ; 
then  put  in  the  heart,  cook,  and  turn  frequently  until  it  has  obtained 
a  nice  brown  color ;  then  add  Yg  pint  of  broth  or  boiling  water,  2 
onions,  a  bouquet,  and  a  small  carrot,  cover  and  cook  slowly  till 
done  (add  more  water  or  broth  if  necessary,  but  not  too  much  at  a 
time,  turning  the  heart  occasionally ;  to  become  tender  it  should 
cook  slowly  from  3  to  4  hours).  When  done  lay  the  heart  on  a  hot 
dish,  remove  the  fat  from  gravy,  mix  1  tablespoonful  cornstarch  in 
a  little  cold  water,  add  it  to  the  gravy,  stir  and  cook  2  minutes  ;  add 
sufficient  boiling  water  to  make  1  pint  of  sauce,  boil  3  minutes; 
then  strain,  pour  a  little  of  the  sauce  over  the  heart,  and  serve  the 
remainder  in  a  sauce  bowl.  Serve  with  macaroni  a  I'ltalienne  or 
mashed  potatoes  and  stewed  tomatoes. 

Beefsteak  Pie. ‚Äî Cut  2  pounds  sirloin  steak  into  inch-sized 
pieces,  season  them  with  Y2  tablespoonful  seasoning  salt.  Place  a 
saucepan  with  2  ounces  butter  over  the  fire,  add  2  fine-chopped 
onions,  cook  6  minutes  without  browning ;  add  the  meat,  cover, 
and  cook  slowly  IY2  hour  (if  it  becomes  too  dry,  add  a  little  meat 
broth,  stirring  occasionally).  Remove  the  meat,  set  aside  to  cool ; 
add  IY2  tablespoonful  flour  to  the  gravy  in  the  saucepan,  stir  for  a 
few  minutes  over  the  fire ;  add  3  cups  of  meat  broth  or  boiling  water 
with  1  teaspoonful  beef  extract,  boil  10  minutes ;  pour  Y2  cup  of 
the  gravy  over  the  meat,  and  set  aside.  Place  the  saucepan  with 
the  remaining  gravy  in  a  vessel  of  hot  water  on  the  stove  to  keep 
warm.  At  the  same  time  boil  6  medium-sized  potatoes  in  salted 
water  15  minutes,  then  drain,  and  when  cold  cut  them  into  thin 
slices.  As  soon  as  the  meat  is  cold,  line  the  sides  of  a  3-pint  pie 
dish  with  rich  pie  crust,  put  in  half  the  meat,  then  half  the  sliced 
potatoes,  sprinkle  over  Y2  teaspoonful  seasoning  salt,  and  1  tea- 


270  MEATS. 

spoonful  fine-minced  onion;  lay  Yg  tablespoonful  butter  in  small 
pieces  over  the  potatoes,  put  in  the  remaining  meat  and  potatoes, 
add  a  little  seasoning  salt  and  butter,  and  cover  with  the  same  crust. 
Cut  an  opening  in  the  center  of  crust,  place  it  in  a  medium-hot 
oven,  bake  20  minutes,  then  draw  the  pie  to  front  of  oven  ;  place  a 
small  funnel  in  the  opening  of  top  crust  and  pour  Yg  pint  of  the 
gravy  through  the  funnel  into  the  pie ;  set  it  back  in  the  oven  and 
bake  till  done,  which  will  take  about  1  hour  (if  the  pie  should 
brown  too  much,  cover  with  buttered  paper).  When  ready  to  serve 
take  the  pie  from  the  oven,  pour  in  as  much  sauce  as  the  pie  will 
hold,  and  serve.  (For  pie  crust  see  recipe  No.  663  in  my  book 
Desserts  and  Salads.) 

Trolley  Beef. ‚Äî One  quart  fine-chopped  cooked  soup  meat,  Ys 
cup  of  vinegar,  1  teaspoonf  ul  salt,  1  teaspoonf  ul  pepper,  Y4  teaspoon- 
ful  allspice,  Y4  tablespoonful  mace,  (and,  if  handy,  2  tablespoonfuls 
chervil),  vinegar,  2  fine-chopped  onions.  Place  the  onions,  vinegar, 
salt,  pepper,  and  spice  in  a  saucepan  over  the  fire,  stir,  and  cook  5 
minutes ;  then  add  the  meat,  and  cook  5  minutes  longer ;  turn  the 
meat  into  a  form  and  set  in  a  cool  place.  Serve  cold,  cut  into 
slices. 

Fricadellen. ‚Äî Chop  fine  any  kind  of  cold  cooked  meat,  soak  half 
a  small  loaf  of  stale  bread  in  cold  water,  when  soft  press  it  out  in  a 
towel.  Place  a  saucepan  over  the  fire  with  1  tablespoonful  butter, 
add  2  fine-chopped  onions,  cook  5  minutes  without  browning  ;  then 
add  the  bread,  stir  over  the  fire  6  minutes,  then  turn  it  into  a  dish. 
When  cold  mix  it  with  1  pint  fine-chopped  meat,  season  with  Y2 
teaspoonful  pepper,  1  teaspoonf  ul  salt,  and  add  1  egg ;  mix  all  well 
together  and  form  it  into  round  balls  the  size  of  an  egg,  press  them 
flat  to  Y2  inch  in  thickness.  Place  a  frying  pan  over  the  fire  with 
1  tablespoonful  drippings,  lard,  or  butter,  when  hot  put  in  the  frica- 
dellen, and  fry  light  brown  on  both  sides.  Serve  on  a  warm  dish 
with  fried  or  boiled  potatoes.  Apple  sauce  or  any  kind  of  stewed 
fruit  may  be  served  with  them. 


MEATS.  271 

Irish  Stew  of  Cold  Meat. ‚Äî Cut  any  kind  of  cold  cooked  meat 
into  1-inch  pieces ;  take  for  1  quart  of  such  pieces  8  good-sized  pota- 
toes, pare  and  cut  them  into  slices,  also  3  large  onions.  Put  the 
meat  with  the  vegetables  in  alternate  layers  in  a  saucepan,  sprinkle 
1  tablespoonful  seasoning  salt  between  them  and  dust  over  each 
layer  a  little  flour ;  put  Yg  tablespoonful  butter  on  top,  then  add 
sufficient  boiling  water  to  cover  all;  put  on  the  lid  and  boil  1 
hour,  then  serve.  Another  way  is  to  add  to  the  vegetables  1  quart 
of  fine-cut  cabbage,  boiling  the  same  way. 

Pillau  of  Cold  Beef. ‚Äî Melt  1  tablespoonful  butter  or  drip- 
pings in  a  saucepan,  add  2  fine-chopped  onions,  cook  3  minutes 
without  browning,  then  add  1  quart  fine-cut  cold  roast  beef,  1  even 
tablespoonful  salt,  1  even  teaspoonful  pepper,  cover  and  cook  10 
minutes,  stirring  occasionally.  In  the  meantime  place  1  cupful  rice 
covered  with  cold  water  in  a  saucepan  over  the  fire,  boil  5  minutes, 
drain  in  a  sieve,  rinse  off  with  cold  water,  add  the  rice  to  the  beef, 
add  2  fine-cut  tomatoes,  cover  the  whole  with  boiling  water,  stock, 
or  broth,  and  boil  slowly  1  hour.  Serve  on  a  warm  dish,  and  gar- 
nish with  fried  or  baked  tomatoes. 

Cold  Boast  Beef  warmed  over. ‚Äî Put  the  gravy  from  the 
beef  in  a  stew  pan ;  add  a  little  boiling  broth  or  water  and  a  piece 
of  butter,  let  it  cook  2  minutes ;  then  have  the  meat  cut  into  slices, 
lay  it  in  the  sauce,  cover  and  stand  on  side  of  stove ;  let  the  meat  get 
heated  through  without  boiling.  Serve  on  a  warm  dish,  and  pour 
the  gravy  over  it.  Serve  with  stewed  tomatoes  and  mashed  potatoes. 
If  the  cold  roast  beef  is  rare,  place  it  in  a  roasting  pan  with  4  ounces 
suet  under  and  over  it,  then  roast  20  minutes  in  a  hot  oven. 

Cold  Roast  Beef  stewed  with  Tegetahles. ‚Äî Place  a  sauce- 
pan with  1  tablespoonful  butter  over  the  fire,  add  2  fine-chopped 
onions,  and  cook  5  minutes ;  add  the  beef  gravy  (if  there  is  any) 
and  1  can  tomatoes ;  season  with  1  teaspoonful  salt,  Yg  teaspoonful 
pepper,  and  Y2  tablespoonful  sugar,  boil  3  minutes,  then  put  in  the 
beef,  cover  and  cook  slowly  1  hour.     At  the  same  time  boil  6  large 


272  MEATS. 

potatoes  in  salted  water  10  minutes ;  then  take  them  out  and  cut 
each  into  quarters.  Fifteen  minutes  before  serving,  lay  the  potatoes 
on  top  the  beef,  and  boil  till  done.  In  serving,  take  the  potatoes 
out,  lay  the  meat  on  a  hot  dish,  the  potatoes  around  it,  and  serve 
the  sauce  with  it.     Also  boiled  spaghetti  may  be  served  with  it. 

Sour  RagoM. ‚Äî Cut  2  pounds  of  cold  boiled  or  roasted  beef  into 
inch-sized  pieces,  place  it  with  the  gravy,  if  there  is  any,  in  a  sauce- 
pan, add  1  pint  of  boiling  water,  Yg  pitit  vinegar,  2  tablespoonfuls 
sugar,  2  fine-cut  onions,  4  cloves,  1  blade  of  mace,  1  bay  leaf,  6  whole 
peppers,  1  teaspoonful  salt,  1  even  teaspoonful  pepper,  cover  and 
boil  slowly  one  hour,  then  mix  Yg  tablespoonful  flour  with  a  little 
cold  water,  add  it  to  the  meat,  boil  for  a  few  minutes,  and  serve  with 
potato  dumplings. 

Corned  Beef  Uash. ‚Äî Chop  very  fine  some  cold  cooked  corned 
beef  and  cold  boiled  potatoes,  1  pint  of  each.  Place  a  saucepan 
with  1  tablespoonful  butter  and  1  gill  fine-chopped  onion  over  the 
fire,  cook  slowly  5  minutes  without  browning ;  add  1  tablespoonful 
flour,  stir  and  cook  2  minutes,  add  Ys  piiit  of  stock  or  broth  (if 
neither  of  them  are  handy  add  Y2  pint  of  boiling  water,  and  Y2  tea- 
spoonful beef  extract) ;  stir  and  cook  3  minutes ;  add  the  hash, 
stirring  and  cooking  over  the  fire  6  minutes,  season  with  Y*  tea- 
spoonful pepper,  and  salt  to  taste  ;  then  serve. 

Hash. ‚Äî Chop  fine  cold  cooked  beef  and  cold  boiled  potatoes,  1 
pint  of  each.  Place  a  frying  pan  with  1  tablespoonful  drippings  or 
butter  over  the  fire,  add  Y2  cupful  fine-chopped  onion,  cook  3  min- 
utes; add  the  hash,  Y*  teaspoonful  pepper,  and  salt  to  taste,  stir 
and  cook  5  minutes ;  add  Y2  cupful  boiling  water,  stir  and  cook  a 
few  minutes  longer,  then  serve.  If  the  hash  is  wanted  brown,  let  it 
remain  on  the  stove  a  few  minutes  longer  without  stirring,  until 
brown  on  the  under  side,  then  turn  it  on  to  a  hot  dish  in  the  shape 
of  an  omelet  and  serve. 

Trying  out  Suet. ‚Äî The  fresh  suet  should  be  cut  into  small 
pieces  and  placed  in  cold  water  for  12  hours ;  change  the  water 


MEATS.  273 

twice  during  that  time,  then  drain  in  colander,  and  put  in  an  iron 
pot  with  1  quart  of  milk  to  10  pounds  of  suet ;  let  it  boil  slowly 
until  clean,  stirring  frequently,  to  prevent  burning.  Strain  it 
through  a  sieve  into  a  stone  jar ;  when  cold  tie  paper  over  the  jar 
and  set  in  a  cool  place.  Half  lard  and  half  suet  may  be  treated  the 
same  way.  This  is  used  in  many  households  for  pie  crust,  frying  and 
roasting  meats,  and  for  seasoning  vegetables  in  place  of  butter.  An- 
other way  is  to  cut  the  beef  fat  into  small  pieces,  place  it  in  a 
saucepan  over  a  slow  fire,  and  cook  gradually  until  clear,  then 
strain  it  through  a  sieve  into  a  jar.  Cover  and  keep  in  a  cool  place. 
(In  place  of  all  beef  fat,  half  beef  fat  and  half  leaf  lard  may  be 
taken  and  tried  out  in  the  same  way.) 

To  clarify  Drippings. ‚Äî Place  the  drippings  in  a  saucepan 
over  a  slow  fire,  boil  gently  5  minutes,  then  remove,  and  free  the 
fat  from  all  scum  ;  let  stand  10  minutes,  then  strain  into  a  clean  jar, 
and  keep  it  in  a  cool  place;  use  for  frying  purposes.  Any  fat 
which  can  not  be  used  for  cooking  purposes  should  be  melted, 
strained,  and  converted  into  soap. 

Soap. ‚Äî Put  ]  can  of  lye  or  potash  into  a  vessel,  add  1  quart  cold 
water,  stir  often  and  let  stand  till  dissolved ;  put  4  ounces  borax 
into  another  vessel  with  1  quart  boiling  water,  let  it  stand  till  cold. 
Melt  4  pounds  of  fat,  strain  it  in  a  large  dish  pan,  and  let  stand  till 
lukewarm,  then  stir  constantly,  while  adding  slowly  first  the  dis- 
solved potash,  then  the  borax ;  continue  to  stir  20  minutes ;  it  will 
then  have  the  appearance  of  thick  honey ;  pour  the  soap  into  a  deep 
pan,  and  set  aside  to  cool.  Next  day,  turn  it  out  and  cut  it  into 
bars.    Keep  in  a  dry  place. 

Soup  Meat  a  la  Fanny. ‚Äî Lay  the  soup  meat  when  done  in  a 
saucepan,  with  some  of  the  soup  stock,  and  set  in  a  cool  place  till 
next  day.  Thirty  minutes  before  serving,  place  a  deep  frying  pan 
with  1  tablespoonful  butter  over  the  fire,  add  2  fine-chopped  onions, 
cook  5  minutes  without  browning ;  then  add  1  tablespoonful  flour, 
stir  and  cook  a  few  minutes ;  add  Y2  cupful  vinegar,  1  teaspoonful 


274  MEATS. 

salt,  Y4  teaspoonful  pepper,  1  tablespoonful  sugar,  and  1  cupful 
broth,  cook  3  minutes ;  cut  2  pounds  of  cold  cooked  soup  meat  into 
slices,  put  it  in  the  sauce,  and  let  simmer  on  side  of  stove  for  15 
minutes ;  then  lay  the  meat  on  a  hot  dish  and  pour  the  sauce  over. 
Serve  with  potato,  bread,  or  flour  dumplings. 

VEAL. 

Roasted  Leg  of  Teal  a  I'Allemande. ‚Äî Procure  a  nice  leg 
of  veal  from  10  to  12  pounds  in  weight,  remove  the  thin  skin  with 
a  sharp  knife,  and  lard  it  closely  with  fine  strips  of  larding  pork, 
using  a  fine  larding  needle ;  season  with  1  tablespoonful  seasoning 
salt.  Put  3  slices  of  larding  pork  in  a  roasting  pan,  place  the  meat 
on  top  of  pork,  pour  2  ounces  melted  butter  over  the  meat,  set  in  a 
hot  oven,  roast  20  minutes,  basting  every  5  minutes  with  its  own 
gravy  ;  next  add  1  cupful  boiling  water ;  continue  roasting  and 
basting  frequently  for  30  minutes,  then  add  1  pint  of  sour  cream, 
and  roast  till  done.  If  the  oven  is  hot  allow  15  minutes  to  a 
pound ;  in  a  slow  oven  it  will  take  longer.  Stick  a  larding  needle 
in  center  of  meat ;  if  it  penetrates  easily  it  is  done ;  if  offering  the 
slightest  resistance  continue  the  roasting.  When  ready  to  serve,  lay 
the  meat  on  a  warm  dish ;  remove  the  fat  from  the  gravy,  mix  1 
even  tablespoonful  cornstarch  with  1  gill  of  cold  water,  add  it  to  the 
sauce,  stir  and  cook  a  few  minutes  on  top  the  stove  ;  add  sufficient 
boiling  water  or  broth  to  make  1  pint  of  sauce ;  cook  a  few  minutes, 
then  strain.  Pour  Y2  giU  of  the  sauce  over  the  meat,  and  serve  the 
remainder  in  a  sauce  bowl ;  garnish  with  rice  timbales,  and  serve 
with  mashed  potatoes  and  stewed  fruit,  or  serve  with  compote  and 
salad  ;  or  any  kind  of  young  cooked  vegetables  may  be  served  with  it. 

Roasted  Leg  of  Yeal  a  rAmericaine. ‚Äî Procure  a  leg  of 
veal,  wipe  it  off  with  a  clean  damp  cloth,  season  with  1  even  table- 
spoonful salt,  1  even  teaspoonful  pepper.  Lay  the  meat  in  a  baking 
pan,  spread  2  ounces  butter  over  the  top,  set  in  a  medium-hot  oven, 
roast  10  minutes ;  then  baste  the  meat  well  with  the  butter,  add  1 
cup  boiling  water,  continue  to  roast,  basting  it  frequently  till  done  j 


MEATS.  2Y5 

if  tlie  gravy  browns  too  mucli  add  a  little  water  now  and  then. 
When  done,  lay  the  meat  on  a  hot  dish ;  remove  the  fat  from  gravy, 
mix  1  even  tablespoonful  flour  with  1  gill  of  cold  water,  add  it  to 
the  gravy,  stir  for  a  few  minutes  on  top  the  stove ;  add  sufficient 
boiling  water  to  make  a  creamy  sauce,  then  strain ;  serve  with 
mashed  potatoes  and  succotash,  and  grated  horseradish  mixed  with 
vinegar,  salt,  and  a  little  sugar. 

Roast  Loin  of  Teal. ‚Äî Procure  a  loin  of  veal  weighing  about 
5  pounds ;  mix  1  tablespoonful  salt  with  1  teaspoonful  pepper,  rub 
this  all  over  the  meat,  lay  it  in  a  roasting  pan  with  a  few  slices  of 
larding  pork  and  1  tablespoonful  butter  on  top  of  it.  Place  the 
meat  in  a  hot  oven,  let  roast  10  minutes,  then  baste  with  the  butter ; 
add  72  piiit  boiling  water ;  continue  roasting  and  frequently  basting 
until  done.  Shortly  before  serving  transfer  the  meat  to  a  hot  dish ; 
remove  the  fat  from  the  gravy;  mix  Yg  tablespoonful  cornstarch 
with  Ys  gill  of  cold  water,  add  it  to  the  gravy,  cook  for  a  few  min- 
utes on  top  of  stove ;  add  sufficient  boiling  water  to  make  a  creamy 
sauce,  cook  a  few  minutes  longer,  then  strain  through  a  sieve  ;  pour 
2  tablespoonfuls  of  the  sauce  over  the  meat  and  serve  the  remainder 
in  a  sauce  bowl.  Serve  with  mashed  potatoes  and  spinach  a  la 
cr6me. 

Loin  of  Teal  a  la  Princesse.‚Äî Procure  a  nice  loin  of  veal 
of  9  pounds,  remove  all  the  bones,  kidney,  and  fat,  season  with  1 
tablespoonful  seasoning  salt;  put  the  kidney  back  in  its  former 
place,  then  roll  the  meat  up,  secure  its  shape  with  4  strings,  making 
a  knot  at  each  end.  Lay  the  meat  in  a  roasting  pan  with  three 
slices  of  larding  pork  under  it,  spread  over  the  top  2  ounces  butter, 
add  1  sliced  onion  and  Ys  sliced  carrot,  set  the  pan  in  a  hot  oven, 
and  roast,  basting  it  frequently  with  its  own  gravy  until  the  meat 
has  obtained  a  light-brown  color ;  then  add  1  pint  of  boiling  broth 
(made  from  the  bones),  continue  to  roast  and  baste  till  the  meat  is 
done,  which  will  take  from  lYs  to  2  hours.  Fifteen  minutes  before 
serving  take  the  meat  from  the  oven,  remove  the  strings,  and  lay  it 


276  MEATS. 

in  a  shallow  baking  pan.  Beat  up  1  egg  until  very  light,  mix  1 
cupful  fresh-grated  bread  crumbs  with  4  ounces  grated  cheese; 
brush  the  meat  over  with  the  beaten  egg,  sprinkle  over  the  bread 
crumbs,  so  that  the  sides  and  top  are  completely  covered  with  the 
crumbs  and  cheese.  Eeturn  the  meat  to  the  oven,  let  it  roast  until 
of  a  fine  golden  color,  then  remove.  Dress  the  meat  on  a  hot  dish, 
garnish  with  timbales  of  macaroni,  and  serve  with  princess  sauce. 

Peincess  Sauce. ‚Äî Melt  1  ounce  butter  in  a  saucepan,  add  1 
fine-chopped  onion,  cover  and  cook  6  minutes  without  browning ; 
add  Yg  tablespoonful  flour,  cook  a  few  minutes ;  add  4  peeled 
tomatoes  cut  into  pieces,  season  with  74  teaspoonful  salt,  the  same 
of  pepper,  and  Yg  teaspoonful  sugar,  cover  and  cook  slowly  15  min- 
utes ;  then  press  it  through  a  sieve  into  a  clean  saucepan,  add  Y2  tea- 
spoonful beef  extract,  Y2  ounce  butter,  stir  over  the  fire  till  boiling, 
then  remove  to  side  of  stove.  Mix  the  yolks  of  2  eggs  with  Y2  cup- 
ful rich  sweet  cream,  add  it  to  the  tomatoes,  stir  for  a  few  minutes 
over  the  fire  without  boiling,  then  serve. 

Saddle  of  Teal  a  PAllemande. ‚Äî Procure  a  double  loin  of 
veal  without  the  kidney,  which  is  called  a  saddle  of  veal,  turn  the 
saddle  over  and  saw  through  all  the  ribs  near  the  backbone  ;  saw  off 
the  points  of  the  ribs ;  take  out  carefully  the  whole  backbone  with- 
out injuring  the  meat  on  top ;  next  remove  the  thin  skin  on  top, 
and  lard  the  meat  closely  with  fine  strips  of  larding  pork,  roll  up 
and  tie  it  firmly  with  strings ;  season  with  IY2  even  tablespoonful 
of  seasoning  salt,  rubbing  the  seasoning  well  into  the  meat.  Lay 
the  saddle  in  a  roasting  pan,  pour  4  ounces  melted  butter  over  the 
meat,  set  in  a  hot  oven,  and  roast  till  the  outside  has  obtained  a  fine 
brown,  basting  frequently  with  its  own  gravy ;  add  1  cupful  boiling 
water  or  white  broth,  roast  and  baste  30  minutes  longer ;  then  add 
1  pint  sour  cream,  and  roast  until  done,  about  2Y2  hours  in  all. 
When  ready  to  serve,  transfer  the  meat  to  a  hot  dish,  remove  the 
fat  from  gravy ;  mix  1  even  tablespoonful  cornstarch  with  1  gill  of 
cold  water,  add  it  to  the  gravy,  stir  and  cook  on  top  of  the  stove  3 


MEATS.  2Y7 

minutes  ;  add  sufficient  boiling  water  or  white  broth  to  make  a  pint 
of  sauce,  boil  a  few  minutes.  Strain,  pour  1  gill  of  the  sauce  over 
the  meat,  and  serve  the  remainder  in  a  sauce  bowl.  Garnish  with 
potato  timbales,  and  serve  with  stewed  fruit  and  lettuce  salad.  Or 
serve  with  vegetables,  such  as  boiled  cauliflower,  asparagus,  stewed 
peas,  spinach,  or  carrots  ;  it  may  also  be  served  with  boiled  potatoes, 
Hanovarian  pudding,  and  stewed  prunes. 

Shoulder  of  Teal,  Stuffed. ‚Äî Select  a  nice  shoulder  of  veal, 
remove  the  bones,  wipe  the  meat  o¬£E  with  a  clean  damp  cloth,  then 
season  it  inside  as  well  as  outside  with  1  tablespoonful  seasoning  salt. 
Stuff  the  shoulder  with  sausage  or  veal  forcemeat,  sew  up,  place  in 
a  roasting  pan  with  3  thin  slices  of  larding  pork  under  it,  spread  3 
ounces  butter  over.  Place  the  pan  in  a  hot  oven,  roast  until  the 
meat  becomes  light  brown,  basting  frequently  with  its  own  gravy ; 
then  add  1  cupful  boiling  water  or  white  broth  (which  could  be 
made  of  the  bones)  ;  roast  about  2  hours  longer,  basting  frequently 
till  done,  adding  more  broth  or  water  should  the  gravy  brown  too 
much.  Ten  minutes  before  serving,  lay  the  meat  on  a  hot  dish,  re- 
move the  fat  from  gravy,  mix  Yg  tablespoonful  cornstarch  with  1  gill 
of  cold  water,  add  it  to  the  sauce,  stir  and  cook  3  minutes  on  top  of 
stove  ;  add  sufficient  broth  or  boiling  water  to  make  a  creamy  sauce, 
boil  for  a  few  minutes,  then  strain ;  pour  a  little  of  the  sauce  over 
the  meat,  and  serve  the  remainder  in  a  sauce  bowl.  Serve  with 
mashed  or  boiled  potatoes  with  horseradish,  creamed  corn,  or  string 
beans.  The  shoulder  may  also  be  stuffed  with  a  plain  bread  filling 
in  place  of  forcemeat. 

Boast  Breast  of  Teal  a  TAllemande. ‚Äî Have  a  breast  of  veal 
prepared  by  the  butcher  for  filling ;  season  with  1  tablespoonful 
seasoning  salt,  stuff  the  breast  either  with  a  veal  or  sausage  force- 
meat, and  sew  it  up  ;  then  lay  it  in  a  roasting  pan,  spread  2  ounces 
butter  over  the  top,  lay  3  thin  slices  of  larding  pork  underneath  the 
veal,  set  it  in  a  hot  oven  and  roast  till  the  meat  has  obtained  a  nice 
brown,  basting  it  often  with  its  own  gravy,  then  add  1  cupful  boil- 


278  MEATS. 

ing  water  or  white  broth,  continue  to  roast  and  baste  till  the  meat 
is  done,  which  will  take  for  a  small  breast  lYg  hour,  for  a  large  one 
2  hours ;  10  minutes  before  the  veal  is  taken  from  the  oven,  add  Ya 
cupful  sour  cream  ;  a  few  minutes  before  serving,  lay  the  meat  on  a 
warm  dish,  remove  the  fat  from  gravy,  mix  1  tablespoouful  corn- 
starch with  1  gill  of  cold  water,  add  it  to  the  gravy,  stir  and  cook  a 
few  minutes ;  add  sufficient  boiling  water  or  broth  to  make  a  pint 
of  sauce,  cook  3  minutes  ;  then  strain,  pour  2  spoonfuls  sauce  over 
the  meat,  and  serve  the  remainder  in  a  sauce  bowl. 

Breast  of  Teal. ‚Äî Remove  all  the  bones  from  a  breast  of  veal, 
wipe  the  meat  off  with  a  damp  towel,  season  with  1  tablespoouful 
seasoning  salt.  Lay  the  breast  on  a  table,  cover  the  inner  part  with 
veal  forcemeat  1  inch  in  thickness ;  cut  Y2  pound  of  boiled  tongue 
into  finger-thick  strips,  lay  them  Y2  inch  apart  over  the  forcemeat, 
and,  if  handy,  sprinkle  over  Y2  cupful  fine-cut  mushrooms ;  then 
roll  up  the  breast  of  veal  carefully,  and  secure  its  shape  by  tying  it 
with  strings ;  fasten  with  skewers  over  the  ends  large  thin  slices 
of  larding  pork  to  prevent  the  forcemeat  from  escaping.  Put  the 
bones  and  trimmings  in  an  oval-shaped  roasting  pan  with  cover, 
add  2  fine-sliced  onions,  1  sliced  carrot,  a  bouquet,  12  whole  peppers, 
4  ounces  salt  pork,  put  the  veal  on  top  of  this,  adding  sufficient  cold 
water  or  white  stock  to  three  fourths  the  height  of  the  meat ;  cover 
with  buttered  paper,  put  on  the  cover,  set  the  pan  over  the  fire,  and 
cook  slowly  about  2  hours,  till  done.  "When  ready  to  serve,  take  it  out, 
remove  strings  and  pork,  lay  the  breast  in  a  roasting  pan,  and  keep 
it  warm  with  a  little  of  the  broth ;  strain  the  broth,  remove  the  fat, 
reduce  the  broth  by  boiling  to  IY3  pint.  Pour  the  reduced  broth 
over  the  breast  of  veal,  set  in  a  hot  oven,  baste  freely,  and  roast  till 
it  has  obtained  a  nice  glaze ;  then  remove  the  breast  to  a  hot  dish. 
Melt  1  ounce  butter  in  a  saucepan,  add  1  tablespoouful  flour,  stir  and 
cook  2  minutes ;  add  the  gravy  from  the  veal,  and  sufficient  boiling 
water  to  make  1  pint  of  sauce,  cook  3  minutes ;  then  strain.  Pour 
a  little  sauce  over  the  meat  and  serve  the  remainder  in  a  sauce  bowl ; 


MEATS.  279 

garnish  with  a  border  of  creamed  wax  beans  around  the  meat,  then  a 
border  of  carrot  balls,  and  next  to  the  carrots  a  border  of  potato  balls. 

Teal  Roulade. ‚Äî Eemove  the  bones,  kidney,  and  fat  from  a 
loin  of  veal  weighing  about  9  or  10  pounds ;  season  with  1  table- 
spoonful  seasoning  salt ;  then  prepare  a  forcemeat.  Mix  Yg  pound 
fine-chopped  veal  with  4  ounces  fine-chopped  veal  fat ;  season  with 
1  teaspoonful  seasoning  salt  and  Yg  teaspoonful  grated  nutmeg. 
Boil  Ys  cupful  water  with  1  ounce  butter,  add  Ya  cupful  flour,  stir 
until  formed  into  a  paste,  then  remove ;  when  cold  add  it  to  the 
meat,  also  the  yolks  of  3  eggs,  1  whole  egg,  and  1  tablespoonful  fine 
grated  bread  crumbs.  Lay  the  loin  on  a  table  with  the  skin  side 
downward,  spread  the  forcemeat  over  the  loin,  then  roll  up,  and  tie 
it  with  several  rows  of  strings ;  tie  twice  more  toward  the  center, 
equally  dividing  the  distance.  Place  the  bones  and  trimmings  in 
a  large  kettle,  add  3  ounces  lean  raw  ham  and  3  ounces  fat  pork, 
cover  with  cold  water,  place  it  over  the  fire ;  as  soon  as  it 
begins  to  boil,  add  a  bouquet,  3  onions,  1  carrot,  and  Ys  even 
tablespoonful  salt ;  put  in  the  roulade,  cover  and  cook  slowly 
3  hours.  Take  out  the  meat,  remove  the  strings,  trim  the  meat 
nicely,  lay  the  roulade  in  a  baking  pan,  add  Y2  pint  of  the  broth, 
set  the  pan  in  a  hot  oven,  baste  frequently,  and  roast  30  minutes. 
Strain  the  remaining  broth,  remove  every  particle  of  fat,  and  reduce 
the  broth  by  boiling  without  a  cover  to  1  pint.  Melt  1  ounce  butter 
in  a  saucepan,  add  1  tablespoonful  flour,  stir  3  minutes ;  add  the 
reduced  broth,  cook  5  minutes ;  then  add  Ys  ounce  butter,  Ys  tea- 
spoonful beef  extract,  and  the  fine-chopped  boiled  kidney.  Ten 
minutes  before  serving  brush  the  roulade  over  with  beaten  egg^ 
and  cover  with  1  cupful  fresh  grated  bread  crumbs  and  4  ounces 
grated  cheese,  return  the  roulade  to  the  hot  oven,  let  it  obtain  a 
fine  golden  color,  then  dress  the  meat  on  a  warm  dish;  garnish  with 
potatoes  tortonia,  and  serve  with  stewed  green  peas  or  cauli- 
flower. Serve  the  gravy  in  a  gravy  bowl  with  it.  A  loin  of  veal 
prepared  in  this  way  is  excellent  cut  up  cold ;  it  is  served  with  aspic 
jelly  and  Tartar  sauce. 


280  MEATS. 

Blanquette  of  Teal  a  PAllemande.‚Äî Procure  2V2  pounds 
of  veal  from  the  leg,  cut  it  into  3-inch-sized  pieces,  place  it  in  a 
saucepan  over  the  fire,  cover  with  boiling  water,  and  after  3  minutes' 
boiling  drain  the  meat  in  a  colander  and  rinse  with  cold  water. 
Return  it  to  saucepan,  cover  with  boiling  water,  add  13  small  white 
onions  or  4  large  ones,  3  even  tablespoonfuls  salt,  1  even  tablespoon- 
f  ul  white  pepper,  and  a  bouquet ;  cover  and  boil  slowly  1  hour. 
Shortly  before  serving  melt  3  ounces  butter  in  a  saucepan,  add  Ya 
cupful  flour,  stir  and  cook  3  minutes  without  browning ;  then  add 
enough  of  the  veal  broth  to  make  a  thick  sauce,  cook  3  minutes. 
Mix  the  yolks  of  3  eggs  with  the  juice  of  1  lemon,  add  first  a  little 
of  the  sauce  to  the  yolks,  and  then  mix  the  whole  together.  Strain 
through  a  sieve,  add  Y2  cupful  cream  or  1  tablespoonful  unsweetened 
condensed  milk.  Let  the  sauce  get  boiling  hot,  but  do  not  allow  to 
boil.  Lay  the  meat  on  a  hot  dish,  pour  the  sauce  over  it,  and  set  6 
rice  timbales  around  the  edge  of  the  dish. 

Teal  Fricassee. ‚Äî Procure  3  pounds  of  veal  from  the  breast, 
cut  it  into  3-inch  pieces,  place  in  a  saucepan,  cover  with  boiling 
water,  add  3  fine-cut  onions,  1  even  tablespoonful  salt,  74  teaspoon- 
ful  white  pepper,  and  4  ounces  salt  pork  cut  into  thin  slices,  cover 
and  cook  V-j^  hour ;  then  mix  1  ounce  butter  with  1  tablespoon- 
ful flour,  add  it  to  the  stew.  Sift  6  ounces  flour  with  1  heaping 
teaspoonful  baking  powder  into  a  bowl,  add  V2  teaspoonful  salt, 
Vs  ounce  drippings  or  beef  fat,  rub  the  fat  and  flour  together,  add  4 
tablespoonfuls  water,  the  yolk  of  1  egg,  and  1  whole  egg ;  mix  all 
together  (do  not  stir  any  more  than  necessary).  Cut  with  a  table- 
spoon small  portions  from  this  and  drop  it  into  the  boiling  stew ; 
cover  and  cook  6  minutes  ;  then  draw  to  side  of  stove  and  sprinkle 
over  1  tablespoonful  fine-chopped  parsley.  Serve  with  boiled  pota- 
toes and  creamed  beans. 

Teal  Stew  a  PAmericaine.‚Äî Take  a  neck  and  part  of  a 
breast  of  veal  (about  3Y2  pounds)  wipe  the  meat  off  with  a  damp 
towel,  and  if  it  should  be  necessary  to  wash  it  do  it  quickly  in  cold 


MEATS.  281 

water.  Place  the  meat  in  a  saucepan  over  the  fire,  cover  with  boil- 
ing water,  add  6  small  or  3  large  white  onions,  1  even  tablespoonful 
salt,  Ya  teaspoonful  white  pepper,  4  ounces  salt  pork,  cut  into  thin 
slices,  cover  and  cook  slowly  IY2  hour.  Peel  8  medium-sized  pota- 
toes, cut  them  into  quarters  and  add  to  the  stew.  Mix  1  ounce 
butter  with  1  tablespoonful  flour,  add  it  to  the  stew,  cook  until 
potatoes  are  done ;  add  1  tablespoonful  fine-chopped  parsley,  and 
serve. 

Teal  Stew  a  PHanovrienne. ‚Äî Procure  a  shank  of  veal  having 
2Y3  pounds  of  meat,  cut  the  meat  into  inch-sized  pieces,  and  crack 
the  bones  into  small  pieces  ;  place  it  in  a  saucepan,  cover  with  cold 
water,  add  1  teaspoonful  salt,  1  onion,  a  small  carrot,  Ys  white 
turnip,  and  a  bouquet.  Place  the  saucepan  over  the  fire  and  boil  1 
hour ;  then  strain  the  broth ;  season  the  meat  with  1  even  table- 
spoonful salt,  1  even  teaspoonful  pepper,  mix  the  seasoning  and 
meat  well  together.  Cut  2  ounces  larding  pork  into  small  pieces, 
put  it  in  a  saucepan  over  the  fire,  fry  light  brown,  add  1  ounce 
butter,  Ys  cupful  fine-cut  onions,  cook  3  minutes ;  then  add  the 
meat,  cover  and  cook  15  minutes,  stirring  often ;  add  1  tablespoon- 
ful flour,  mix  it  with  the  meat,  then  add  IY2  pint  of  the  veal  broth, 
cover  and  cook  slowly  30  minutes.  Serve  on  a  warmed  dish  with 
boiled  rice  or  nudles. 

Ragotit  of  Calf  s  Tongue. ‚Äî Place  2  well-cleaned  calf  tongues 
in  a  saucepan  over  the  fire,  cover  with  boiling  water,  cook  3  min- 
utes ;  drain  the  tongues  in  a  colander,  rinse  off  with  cold  water, 
return  to  a  saucepan,  and  cover  with  boiling  water  ;  add  2  onions,  a 
bouquet,  Yg  tablespoonful  salt,  Y2  teaspoonful  pepper,  cover  and  cook 
till  tender.  "When  done  talu  out  the  tongues,  remove  the  skin,  cut 
into  slices,  put  in  a  saucepan  with  a  little  broth,  and  set  in  a  warm 
place  to  keep  warm.  Melt  1  ounce  butter  in  a  saucepan,  add  2  fine- 
cut  onions,  fry  light  brown ;  add  1  heaping  tablespoonful  flour,  stir 
and  cook  2  minutes  ;  add  3  cupf uls  tongue  broth,  1  teaspoonful  beef 
extract,  and  3  tablespoonf  uls  sherry  wine,  cook  3  minutes ;  then  strain 


282  MEATS. 

into  a  clean  saucepan,  add  13  small  mushrooms,  cook  10  minutes ; 
add  lastly  the  tongue  slices  and  12  veal  forcemeat  balls  (if  not  hrown 
enough  add  a  little  sugar  color).  Serve  on  a  hot  dish,  garnish  with 
fleurons  of  puff  paste,  or  with  a  border  of  rice,  spaghetti,  or  nudles, 
or  in  a  vol-au-vent.  Kagout  of  fresh  pig's  tongue  is  prepared  in 
the  same  way. 

Teal  Rolls. ‚Äî Cut  lYg  pound  of  veal  from  the  leg  into  thin 
slices  5  inches  long  and  4  inches  wide,  season  with  1  even  table- 
spoonful  seasoning  salt ;  prepare  a  veal  forcemeat ;  cover  the  slices 
of  veal  with  the  forcemeat,  roll,  and  tie  them  with  a  string.  Place  a 
roasting  pan  with  2  ounces  fine-cut  larding  pork  over  the  fire ;  fry 
until  light  brown,  add  1  ounce  butter,  put  in  the  rolls,  and  let  cook 
10.  minutes,  turning  frequently ;  then  add  Y2  cupful  boiling  water 
or  broth,  1  small  sliced  onion,  and  a  few  slices  of  carrots ;  set  the 
pan  in  a  medium-hot  oven,  cover  with  buttered  paper,  and  roast  30 
minutes,  basting  frequently  (if  the  gravy  should  get  too  brown  add 
a  little  water).  When  done  take  the  rolls  from  the  oven,  remove  the 
strings,  arrange  on  a  warm  dish  ;  remove  the  :^at  from  the  gravy, 
mix  Y2  tablespoonf  ul  cornstarch  with  Y2  gill  of  cold  water,  add  it  to 
the  gravy,  and  stir  for  a  few  minutes ;  add  sufficient  boiling  water 
to  make  a  creamy  sauce,  strain  ;  add  a  little  beef  extract ;  pour  some 
of  the  sauce  over  the  rolls,  and  serve  the  remainder  in  a  sauce  bowl ; 
garnish  with  fried  tomatoes.  Any  of  the  following  vegetables  may 
be  served  with  them  :  Succotash,  stewed  peas,  string  beans,  Lima 
beans,  creamed  cabbage,  cauliflower,  chestnut  puree,  lentils,  aspara- 
gus, or  carrots. 

Calf  s-feet  Frite  with  Allemande  Sauce.‚Äî Place  2  calf's  feet 
into  boiling  water,  let  them  remain  a  few  minutes,  then  strain  and 
rinse  in  cold  water  ;  return  the  feet  to  the  saucepan,  cover  with  fresh 
boiling  water,  place  over  the  fire  ;  add  1  fine-cut  onion,  a  bouquet,  a 
small  carrot,  2  whole  peppers,  1  tablespoonful  salt,  and  Y2  cupful 
vinegar,  cover  and  cook  till  the  meat  separates  from  the  bones. 
Take  them  out,  remove  the  bones,  put  the  meat  under  a  light  press 


MEATS.  283 

till  cold,  then  cut  it  into  pieces,  dip  in  beaten  egg,  roll  in  bread 
crumbs,  and  fry  in  half  butter  and  half  fat  to  a  delicate  brown ; 
arrange  the  pieces  on  a  warm  dish,  and  serve  with  allemande  sauce. 
Another  way  is  to  dip  them  in  batter  and  to  fry  in  boiling  fat  like 
fritters ;  to  serve  with  the  same  sauce  or  garnish  with  cut  lemons, 
and  serve  with  potato  salad. 

Teal  Kidney.  ‚Äî  Prepared  the  same  as  lamb  and  sheep's 
kidney. 

Calf's  Head,  Boiled. ‚Äî Place  a  well-cleaned  calf's  head  for  5 
minutes  in  a  kettle  of  boiling  water,  then  remove  and  plunge  it  into 
cold  water ;  return  the  head  to  the  kettle,  cover  with  fresh  boiling 
water,  add  2  large  onions,  1  carrot,  a  bouquet,  a  handful  of  salt,  1 
tablespoonful  whole  pepper,  and  boil  until  done ;  then  remove,  lay 
the  head  on  a  warm  dish,  and  serve  with  bechamel  sauce. 

Calf's  Head‚Äî How  to  bone  and  boil.‚Äî Select  a  large  white 
calf's  head  ;  bone  it  by  cutting  the  flesh,  starting  from  the  center  of 
the  calf's  head  right  down  to  the  nostrils  ;  then  with  a  small  sharp 
knife  cut  the  meat  on  both  sides  from  the  bone ;  split  the  head 
open,  remove  the  brain,  and  place  it  in  cold  water  to  be  used  for 
other  purposes.  Put  the  meat  in  a  kettle  of  boiling  water  to  remain 
a  few  minutes,  then  remove  and  instantly  plunge  into  cold  water ; 
after  10  minutes  take  it  out,  cut  it  into  pieces  2  inches  long  and  lYg 
inch  wide,  trim  off  the  corners.  In  the  meantime  place  a  sauce- 
pan with  3  ounces  fine-cut  larding  pork  and  3  ounces  fine-cut  suet 
over  the  fire,  add  2  fine-cut  onions,  1  cut  carrot,  cook  5  minutes 
without  browning,  then  add  2  tablespoonfuls  flour,  stir  and  cook  2 
minutes ;  add  a  bouquet,  12  whole  peppers,  and  3  quarts  boiling 
water  with  the  juice  of  1  lemon,  cover  and  cook  35  minutes  ;  then 
strain  into  a  clean  saucepan  and  return  to  the  fire.  As  soon  as  the 
broth  boils  put  in  the  head  and  ears,  add  2  even  tablespoonfuls  salt, 
cover  and  cook  slowly  from  V/o  to  2  hours.  When  ready  to  serve 
place  the  meat  on  a  warm  dish,  garnish  with  parsley,  and  serve  with 
any  sauce  desired  ;  or  it  may  be  used  as  a  garnish  for  ragouts. 
19 


284:  MEATS. 

Mock-Turtle  Ragoftt. ‚Äî Split  a  well-cleaned  calf's  head,  re- 
move the  brain,  place  the  head  in  a  large  kettle,  cover  with  boiling 
water,  add  1  tablespoonful  salt,  y*  tablespoonful  pepper,  3  onions, 
and  a  bouquet ;  cover  and  boil  till  the  meat  is  tender.  Remove  the 
calf's  head,  cut  off  all  the  meat  and  cut  it  into  pieces,  remove  the 
white  skin  from  the  tongue,  and  cut  the  tongue  into  slices.  Melt  2 
ounces  of  butter  in  a  saucepan,  add  3  fine-chopped  onions,  and  cook 
till  light  brown ;  add  2  tablespoonf  uls  flour,  stir  and  cook  two 
minutes ;  add  4  cupfuls  veal  broth,  Yg  cupful  sherry  wine,  1  tea- 
spoonful  beef  extract,  Y4  can  of  mushrooms,  season  wilh  salt  and 
pepper,  cook  15  minutes ;  add  the  tongue  and  1  pint  of  meat  from 
the  head  ;  cook  a  few  minutes.  Serve  on  a  hot  dish  with  a  border 
of  nudles  or  rice.  Small  balls  made  from  the  brain  and  boiled  in 
salted  water  may  be  added  to  the  ragout. 

Veal  Stew  a  I'ltalienne. ‚Äî Procure  2Y2  pounds  of  veal  from 
the  leg,  cut  it  into  inch-sized  pieces ;  place  a  saucej)an  with  4  table- 
spoonfuls  of  olive  oil  over  the  fire,  add  1  crushed  clove  of  gar- 
lic, 2  fine-cut  onions,  cover  and  cook  3  minutes;  add  Y2  handful  of 
dried  mushrooms  previously  soaked  in  cold  water;  season  the  meat 
with  1  tablespoonful  salt,  Y2  teaspoonful  pepper,  mixing  the  season- 
ing and  the  meat  well  together.  Add  the  meat  to  the  saucepan, 
add  3  peeled  tomatoes  cut  into  small  pieces,  cover  and  cook  15  min- 
utes, stirring  frequently ;  then  dust  over  1  tablespoonful  flour,  mix 
all  well  together ;  add  IY2  pint  of  white  stock  or  veal  broth,  cover 
and  cook  30  minutes,  then  serve  with  boiled  macaroni. 

Veal  Stew  a  I'Espagnole. ‚Äî Cut  2Y2  pounds  of  veal  from  the 
neck  and  breast  into  small  pieces,  season  with  1  tablespoonful  season- 
ing salt.  Place  a  saucepan  with  1  gill  of  oil  over  the  fire,  add  Y2 
cupful  fine-cut  onions,  1  fine-cut  green  pepper  without  the  seeds,  1 
bruised  clove  of  garlic,  cover  and  cook  5  minutes ;  then  add  the 
meat,  cover  and  cook  15  minutes,  stirring  frequently ;  add  Y2  cupful 
fine-cut  mushrooms,  Y2  pi^it  of  cooked  tomatoes,  and  V/s  pint  white 
broth,  cover  the  saucepan,  cook  40  minutes.     Melt  1  ounce  butter 


MEATS.  285 

in  a  small  saucepan,  add  1  tablespoonful  flour,  stir  3  minutes  ;  add 
Ys  pint  of  the  broth  from  the  stew,  stir  and  cook  to  a  thick  smooth 
sauce ;  add  it  to  the  stew,  boil  5  minutes,  and  serve  with  boiled  rice. 

Calf's  Liver,  Braised. ‚Äî Wash  and  wipe  a  nice  calf's  liver,  cut 
7g  pound  larding  pork  into  finger-thick  strips,  mix  1  even  teaspoon- 
ful  salt  with  1  teaspoonful  pepper,  2  tablespoonfuls  fine-chopped 
onion,  1  tablespoonful  chopped  parsley ;  roll  the  pork  in  this  sea- 
soning. Then  make  with  a  knife  incisions  in  the  liver,  put  in  each 
a  strip  of  pork.  Put  the  remaining  pork  in  a  saucepan,  add  a 
bouquet,  1  sliced  onion,  1  small  carrot,  and  12  whole  peppers ; 
place  the  liver  on  top  of  this,  add  Yg  pint  of  sherry  wine  and  1 
quart  of  water  with  2  teaspoonfuls  beef  extract,  cover  with  but- 
tered paper,  and  cook  slowly  2  hours,  basting  it  occasionally.  Ee- 
move  the  liver,  lay  it  in  a  round  pan ;  strain  the  broth,  i-emove  fat, 
and  reduce  it  by  boiling  to  1  pint ;  pour  it  over  the  liver,  set  in  a  hot 
oven,  basting  frequently  with  its  own  gravy  till  it  has  obtained  a  nice 
glaze,  then  remove  to  a  warm  dish.  Melt  1  ounce  butter  in  a  sauce- 
pan, add  1  tablespoonful  flour,  stir  and  cook  3  minutes ;  add  the 
gravy  from  the  pan,  rinse  the  pan  with  a  little  boiling  water,  adding 
this  also  to  the  sauce,  stir  and  cook  3  minutes  (if  too  thick  add  more 
water  or  broth),  then  strain.  Pour  a  little  of  the  sauce  over  the 
liver  and  serve  the  remainder  in  a  sauce  bowl.  Garnish  with  glazed 
carrot  balls,  small  glazed  white  onions,  and  boiled  potato  balls. 

Potted  Liver. ‚Äî Lard  a  nice  calf's  liver  with  larding  pork, 
season  with  1  even  tablespoonful  seasoning  salt.  Place  2  ounces 
fine-cut  larding  pork  in  a  saucepan  over  the  fire,  fry  light  brown ; 
add  2  ounces  butter  and  the  liver,  roast  until  the  liver  has  ob- 
tained a  light  brown,  turning  it  frequently;  then  add  1  pint  of 
broth  or  boiling  water,  2  onions,  1  small  carrot,  and  a  bouquet,  cover 
and  cook  Y2  ^^our  ;  lastly  add  Y2  piiit  sour  cream,  continue  to  cook 
till  done,  turning  the  liver  several  times.  If  the  gravy  should  boil 
away,  add  more  water  or  cream.  Shortly  before  serving  lay  the 
liver  on  a  warm  dish ;  remove  the  fat  from  gravy,  mix  1  table- 


286  MEATS. 

spoonful  cornstarch  with  1  gill  of  cold  water,  add  it  to  the  gravy, 
cook  3  minutes;  add  sufficient  boiling  water  or  broth  to  make  a 
creamy  sauce ;  boil  a  few  minutes,  then  strain  ;  pour  1  gill  of  sauce 
over  the  liver  and  serve  the  remainder  in  a  sauce  bowl.  Serve 
with  potato  dumplings  and  stewed  fruit ;  or  any  kind  of  vegetables 
may  be  sent  to  the  table  with  it. 

Calf's  Liver  a  la  Maitre  d'Hotel. ‚Äî Procure  a  nice  calf's 
liver,  cut  it  into  slices,  season  with  1  even  tablespoonful  seasoning 
salt,  brush  the  slices  over  with  melted  butter,  lay  them  on  a  hot 
broiler,  and  broil  over  a  moderate  fire  4  minutes  on  each  side; 
spread  2  ounces  maitre  d'hotel  butter  over  and  serve  with  French 
fried  potatoes. 

Calf's  Liver,  Broiled. ‚Äî Cut  a  nice  calf's  liver  into  thin  slice.'s, 
brush  over  with  melted  butter,  lay  on  a  hot  broiler,  broil  4  minutes 
on  each  side.  Broil  also  6  thin  slices  of  bacon,  lay  the  bacon  on  a 
warm  dish ;  spread  Y4  teaspoonful  seasoning  butter  over  each  slice 
of  liver,  and  serve  with  Saratoga  chips. 

Calf's  Liver,  Fried. ‚Äî Season  6  thin  slices  of  calf's  liver  with 
1  even  tablespoonful  seasoning  salt,  roll  in  flour;  melt  Yg  table- 
spoonful  butter  in  a  frying  pan,  add  1  tablespoonful  lard  or  fat ; 
when  hot  put  in  the  liver,  fry  4  minutes  on  each  side,  turning 
often  while  frying ;  arrange  on  a  warm  dish  and  serve  with  buttered 
toast.  If  a  gravy  is  wanted,  add  to  the  fat  in  pan  Yg  tablespoonful 
flour,  stir  2  minutes,  add  1  cupful  boiling  water,  Y2  teaspoonful  beef 
extract  and  a  little  salt  and  pepper ;  cook  3  minutes ;  strain  into  a 
sauce  bowl,  or  pour  it  over  the  liver. 

Fried  Liver  and  Bacon. ‚Äî Put  6  slices  of  bacon  in  a  pan,  cover 
with  boiling  water,  let  remain  3  minutes,  then  remove  ;  lay  in  a  fry- 
ing pan,  and  fry  over  the  fire  3  minutes  on  each  side.  Lay  the 
bacon  on  a  warm  dish ;  season  6  slices  of  calf's  liver  with  1  even 
tablespoonful  seasoning  salt,  roll  the  liver  in  flour,  put  the  slices  in 
the  hot  bacon  fat,  and  fry  light  brown  on  both  sides.     Arrange  the 


MEATS.  287 

liver  alternately  with  tlie  bacon  on  a  warm  dish,  and  serve  with 
baked  or  fried  potatoes. 

Calf's  Liver,  Stewed. ‚Äî Cut  lYg  pound  calf's  liver  into  small 
pieces,  season  them  with  1  even  tablespoonful  seasoning  salt ;  mix 
the  liver  pieces  well  with  the  seasoning.  Place  a  saucepan  with  2 
ounces  butter  and  2  tablespoonfuls  fine-chopped  onion  over  the  fire, 
add  1  bruised  clove  of  garlic,  cover  and  cook  3  minutes ;  add  2  table- 
spoonfuls  fine-chopped  mushrooms,  cook  3  minutes ;  then  add  the 
liver,  stir  well  for  2  minutes,  cover  and  cook  6  minutes ;  sprinkle 
over  Y2  tablespoonful  flour,  add  1  gill  of  red  wine,  1  gill  of  boiling 
water  with  Y2  teaspoonful  beef  extract ;  mix  all  well  together,  and 
cook  5  minutes  longer.  Serve  on  a  warm  dish,  garnish  with  po- 
tato croquettes.  (In  place  of  wine  the  juice  of  1  lemon  may  be 
taken.) 

Pate  Froid  de  Veau‚Äî Kalte   Kalbspastete.‚Äî Prepare  a 

forcemeat  of  1  pound  chopped  veal,  1  pound  fine-chopped  fresh 
pork,  1  tablespoonful  salt,  1  teaspoonful  pepper,  and  the  yolks  of  2 
eggs ;  mix  all  well  together.  Cut  1  pound  of  veal  from  the  leg  into 
inch-sized  pieces,  and  lard  with  fine  strips  of  larding  pork,  boiled 
ham,  and  trufSes.  Cut  Vg  pound  boiled  ham  and  Yg  pound  fresh 
pork  into  small  pieces.  Put  the  ham,  pork,  and  veal  into  a  bowl, 
add  6  truffles,  season  with  1  even  teaspoonful  herb  salt,  and  pour 
over  Yg  cup  sherry  wine,  let  it  stand  2  hours.  Melt  2  ounces  butter 
in  a  saucepan,  add  1  fine-chopped  onion,  cook  5  minutes  ;  add  the 
pieces  of  veal,  ham,  and  pork,  and  1  teaspoonful  fine-chopped 
parsley,  cook  and  stir  10  minutes ;  remove  from  fire,  and  set  aside 
to  cool.  Line  the  sides  and  bottom  of  a  deep  form  with  fine  paste, 
lay  thin  slices  of  larding  pork  on  the  bottom  and  sides,  put  in  1 
layer  of-  forcemeat,  then  a  layer  of  the  meat,  and  over  that  again 
forcemeat.  Lay  a  few  thin  slices  of  pork  over  the  forcemeat,  put 
on  a  cover  of  the  same  paste ;  cut  an  opening  in  the  center,  and 
decorate  the  edge  with  leaves  cut  from  the  same  paste ;  then  place 
the  pdte  in  the  oven  to  bake  IY2  hour.    As  soon  as  taken  from 


288  MEATS. 

the  oven  pour  a  few  spoonfuls  aspic,  to  whicli  a  little  Madeira  wine 
has  been  added,  in  the  opening  of  the  pate,  and  let  it  stand  till  next 
day.  In  serving  remove  the  cover  and  cut  the  pate  into  slices,  and 
serve  with  chopped  aspic. 

Cold  Teal  warmed  over. ‚Äî Put  the  gravy  from  cold  roasted 
veal  in  a  deep  pan,  add  a  little  meat  broth  or  boiling  water,  and 
a  piece  of  butter ;  place  the  pan  over  the  fire,  as  soon  as  the 
gravy  boils  cut  the  veal  into  slices,  lay  them  in  the  gravy,  cover  the 
pan,  and  set  it  on  the  side  of  stove  where  it  will  keep  warm,  but 
not  to  boil.  Let  it  remain  about  20  minutes,  then  serve  on  a  warm 
dish  with  fresh  boiled  potatoes  and  stewed  corn,  beet  salad,  or 
grated  horseradish  mixed  with  vinegar ;  a  little  salt  and  sugar  may 
be  served  with  it. 

Cold  Veal  with  Cream  Sauce.‚Äî Place  a  saucepan  with  1 
ounce  butter  over  the  fire,  add  1  fine-chopped  onion,  cook  5  min- 
utes without  browning  ;  add  1  tablespoonful  flour,  cook  2  minutes  ; 
then  add  1  pint  of  meat  broth  (which  can  be  made,  if  not  at  hand, 
from  the  bones  and  gravy  from  the  roasted  veal)  ;  season  with  1 
even  teaspoonful  salt,  Y2  even  teaspoonf ul  pepper,  and  a  small  bou- 
quet, cook  6  minutes.  Strain  into  a  clean  saucepan,  add  1  quart  of 
fine-cut  cold  roasted  veal,  cook  slowly  5  minutes ;  then  add  1  table- 
spoonful  lemon  juice,  and  lastly  Y2  cupful  cream  or  1  tablespoonful 
unsweetened  condensed  milk.  Lay  6  slices  of  buttered  toast  on  a 
hot  dish,  pour  the  veal  over  it,  and  serve. 

Veal  Hash. ‚Äî Chop  remnants  of  cooked  veal  very  fine,  add  to 
1  pint  of  chopped  veal  1  pint  fine-chopped  boiled  potatoes.  Place 
a  saucepan  with  1  ounce  butter  and  2  tablespoonfuls  fine-chopped 
onions  over  the  fire,  cook  5  minutes ;  add  1  tablespoonful  flour, 
stir  and  cook  3  minutes ;  then  add  1  cupful  broth,  1  even  teaspoon- 
ful salt,  Y2  even  teaspoonful  pepper,  add  the  meat  and  potatoes,  stir 
and  cook  5  minutes.  Serve  on  a  hot  dish,  lay  6  poached  eggs  in  a 
circle  around  it ;  sprinkle  1  tablespoonful  fine-chopped  parsley  over 
the  hash,  and  serve. 


MEATS.  289 

Teal  Hash  with  Oysters. ‚Äî Cut  the  remnants  of  cold  roasted 
veal  into  small  pieces,  set  a  saucepan  with  1  ounce  butter  oyer  the 
fire,  add  1  tablespoonful  flour,  stir  and  cook  3  minutes ;  add  Yg  pint 
of  broth,  Y2  pint  of  oyster  liquor,  season  with  1  even  teaspoonful 
salt,  Y2  even  teaspoonful  pepper,  stir  and  cook  3  minutes  ;  then  add 
lYs  pint  of  fine-cut  meat,  cook  5  minutes.  At  the  same  time  place 
i2  oysters  without  any  liquor  in  a  saucepan  over  the  fire,  add  1  table- 
spoonful  lemon  juice,  1  teaspoonful  butter,  a  little  white  pepper,  and 
a  sprinkle  of  salt,  let  cook  2  minutes  ;  then  add  them  to  the  veal ; 
add  lastly  Y2  cupful  cream  or  1  tablespoonful  unsweetened  con- 
densed milk.  When  ready  to  serve  pour  the  hash  on  to  a  hot  dish, 
and  lay  6  small  slices  of  bread  fried  in  butter  in  a  circle  around  the 
dish. 

Veal  a  la  Bechamel. ‚Äî Set  a  saucepan  with  1  ounce  butter  and 
1  tablespoonful  flour  over  the  fire,  stir  and  cook  2  minutes ;  add  1 
pint  hot  milk,  a  small  bouquet,  Y2  cupful  mushroom  liquor,  1  even 
teaspoonful  salt,  Y2  teaspoonful  grated  nutmeg,  cook  6  minutes ; 
then  strain  the  sauce  into  a  clean  saucepan,  add  1  quart  fine-minced 
cold  cooked  veal,  stir  and  cook  slowly  10  minutes.  Serve  on  a  hot 
dish  with  fine-chopped  parsley  sprinkled  over  it,  and  with  mashed 
potatoes  or  potato  croquettes. 

Teal  Croquettes,  No.  1. ‚Äî Put  2  tablespoonfuls  fine-chopped 
onion  in  a  saucepan  over  the  fire,  add  1  ounce  butter,  a  small  piece 
of  bruised  garlic  the  size  of  a  pea,  cook  5  minutes  without  brown- 
ing ;  add  1  heaping  tablespoonful  flour,  stir  and  cook  2  minutes ; 
add  1  cupful  broth,  6  fine-chopped  canned  mushrooms,  1  even  tea- 
spoonful salt,  Y2  even  teaspoonful  pepper,  stir  and  cook  5  minutes  ; 
add  1  pint  fine-chopped  cooked  veal  and  1  tablespoonful  fine-chopped 
parsley,  stir  and  cook  5  minutes  longer ;  then  add  the  yolks  of  3 
eggs,  turn  the  preparation  into  a  shallow  pan,  and  set  it  aside  to  cool. 
When  cold  form  the  mixture  into  cork-shaped  croquettes,  dip  in 
beaten  egg  and  roll  in  grated  bread  crumbs,  fry  light  brown  in  hot 
fat  or  lard,  and  butter  to  a  fine  golden  color ;  lay  the  croquettes  for 


290  MEATS. 

a  few  minutes  on  blotting  paper,  and  serve  with  either  of  the  fol- 
lowing sauces :  Tomato,  allemande,  latana,  bechamel,  or  cream 
sauce. 

Teal  Croquettes,  No  2. ‚Äî Place  a  saucepan  with  1  fine-chopped 
onion  and  1  ounce  butter  over  the  fire,  cook  5  minutes  ;  add  1  heap- 
ing tablespoonful  flour,  stir  and  cook  2  minutes  ;  then  add  1  cupfu) 
canned  tomatoes,  1  even  teaspoonful  salt,  Yg  6ven  teaspoonful  pep- 
per, stir  and  cook  5  minutes ;  add  1  pint  fine-chopped  cooked  veal, 
stir  and  cook  5  minutes  longer  ;  add  the  yolks  of  3  eggs,  and  finish 
as  in  foregoing  recipe. 

Teal  Oysters. ‚Äî Cut  V-j^  pound  of  veal  cutlet  into  pieces  the 
size  of  large  oysters,  season  them  with  1  even  tablespoonful  seasoning 
salt,  dust  with  flour,  then  dip  into  beaten  egg,  roll  in  bread  crumbs, 
and  fry  in  pork  or  lard  and  butter,  light  brown  on  both  sides. 
Dress  on  a  hot  dish,  garnish  with  lemon  quarters,  and  serve  with 
Qgg  salad.  (For  egg  salad  see  my  book  on  Desserts  and  Salads, 
recipe  912.) 

Teal  Cutlets  en  PaplUotes. ‚Äî Procure  6  veal  cutlets  from 
the  loin,  trim  neatly,  cut  the  bone  rather  short ;  season  with  1 
tablespoonful  seasoning  salt.  Place  a  large  frying  pan  over  the  fire 
with  2  ounces  butter ;  when  melted  put  in  the  cutlets,  cook  3  min- 
utes on  each  side,  then  remove.  Put  3  tablespoonfuls  fine-chopped 
onion  in  the  pan,  cook  3  minutes,  then  add  7*  cupful  fine-chopped 
mushrooms,  1  even  teaspoonful  salt,  Y4  teaspoonful  pepper,  2  fine- 
cut  truffles,  cook  3  minutes  longer;  add  Yg  tablespoonful  fine- 
chopped  parsley.  Melt  Ys  ounce  butter  in  a  small  saucepan,  add  Ya 
teaspoonful  flour,  stir  2  minutes;  add  Y2  cupful  boiling  broth  or 
water  with  a  little  beef  extract,  cook  3  minutes,  add  it  to  the  fines 
herbes  in  pan,  stir  for  a  few  minutes,  remove  and  set  aside.  Fold 
6  white  sheets  of  paper  double,  cut  them  half-heart  shape,  brush  the 
paper  over  with  oil  or  butter;  lay  a  thin  slice  of  cooked  ham  on 
one  side  of  each  paper,  on  top  the  ham  lay  a  little  of  the  fines 
herbes,  then  the  cutlets  and  another  layer  of  the  fines  herbes,  cover 


MEATS.  291 

with  a  thin  slice  of  cooked  ham,  close  the  paper,  and  fold  both 
edges  together.  When  all  are  prepared  in  this  way  lay  the  papil- 
lotes  on  a  buttered  dish,  set  in  a  hot  oven  and  bake  about  8  min- 
utes.    Arrange  them  nicely  on  a  warm  dish  and  serve. 

Teal  Cutlets  in  Paper. ‚Äî Season  6  nicely  trimmed  veal  cut- 
lets with  seasoning  salt,  cut  the  bone  short.  Butter  6  sheets  of 
white  paper  cut  heart-shape,  brush  the  cutlets  over  with  melted 
butter,  lay  one  on  each  sheet  of  paper,  fold  the  paper  over  and  in- 
close the  cutlets ;  fold  the  2  edges  together,  lay  them  on  a  hot 
broiler,  and  broil  over  a  clear  fire  5  minutes  on  each  side.  Arrange 
them  on  a  warm  dish,  and  serve  with  baked  potatoes  and  fried  to- 
matoes. 

Veal  Cutlets,  Broiled.‚Äî Procure  6  veal  cutlets  from  the  loin, 
remove  all  fat,  trim  neatly,  brush  over  with  melted  butter ;  lay  the 
cutlets  on  a  hot  broiler  and  broil  over  a  moderate  fire  5  minutes  on 
each  side,  turning  frequently.  Mix  1  ounce  butter  with  Yg  even 
tablespoonful  seasoning  salt,  lay  the  cutlets  on  a  warm  dish,  spread 
over  the  seasoning  butter,  garnish  with  cut  lemon  and  parsley ; 
serve  with  boiled  potatoes  and  stewed  green  peas  or  asparagus. 

Teal  Cutlets  Mac6doine. ‚Äî Eemove  the  bone  and  fat  from  6 
veal  cutlets  from  the  loin,  trim  in  the  shape  of  a  pear ;  season  with 
1  even  tablespoonful  seasoning  salt,  dust  lightly  with  flour,  dip  into 
beaten  egg,  roll  in  bread  crumbs,  pat  with  a  knife  nice  and  smooth. 
Melt  1  ounce  butter  and  Yg  ounce  lard  or  fat  in  a  pan ;  put  in  the 
cutlets,  fry  over  medium-hot  fire  to  a  fine  golden  color,  then  remove. 
Place  in  the  center  of  a  warm  dish  1  pint  of  each  of  boiled  carrots 
julienne,  cut  small  white  onions  a  la  creme,  small  cooked  potato 
balls,  and  cauliflower  a  I'allemande  ;  lay  the  cutlets  in  a  circle 
around  the  vegetables  and  serve. 

Teal  Cutlets,  Fried.‚Äî Select  2  pounds  veal  from  the  leg,  cut 
it  into  6  even  slices  ;  fry  4  ounces  fine-cut  larding  pork  light  brown, 
put  in  the  cutlets,  fry  light  brown  on  both  sides.  Arrange  them  on 
a  warm  dish,  mix  1  ounce  butter  with  Ys  even  tablespoonful  season- 


292  MEATS. 

ing  salt,  spread  it  over  the  cutlets,  and  serve  with  fried  eggplant 
and  boiled  potatoes,  or  any  other  kind  of  vegetables  in  season. 

Larded  Veal  Cutlets  with  Spinacli.‚Äî Trim  6  veal  cutlets 
from  the  loin,  having  the  bone  cut  rather  short,  lard  on  one  side 
with  larding  pork,  season  with  1  even  tablespoonful  seasoning  salt. 
Put  4  thin  slices  of  larding  pork  in  a  baking  pan,  2  onions,  and  Yg 
carrot  cut  into  slices ;  lay  the  cutlets  on  top  of  this,  add  sufficient 
stock  or  broth  to  nearly  cover  them,  place  the  pan  over  the  fire, 
cook  15  minutes ;  then  cover  the  cutlets  with  buttered  paper,  set 
the  pan  in  oven,  bake  20  minutes ;  remove  the  paper,  baste  the  cut- 
lets frequently,  and  bake  till  done.  At  the  same  time  prepare  Y2 
peck  of  spinach  a  la  creme,  arrange  the  cutlets  on  an  oval-shaped 
warm  dish,  lay  the  cutlets  in  a  straight  row  on  the  dish,  so  that  the 
end  bone  is  underneath ;  dress  the  spinach  on  each  side  of  it.  Re- 
move the  fat  from  the  gravy,  strain,  and  serve  with  the  cutlets ; 
garnish  the  spiuach  with  hard-boiled  eggs. 

Wiener  Schnitzel. ‚Äî Procure  2  pounds  veal  from  the  leg,  cut 
it  into  slices  Y3  inch  thick  and  3  inches  square,  pare  the  corners 
round,  beat  lightly  to  flatten  them,  then  season  with  1  tablespoon- 
ful seasoning  salt  and  dust  with  flour ;  dip  each  cutlet  into  beaten 
egg^  cover  with  fine  bread  crumbs,  and  pat  smooth  with  a  knife. 
Fifteen  minutes  before  serving  place  a  pan  with  1  ounce  butter  and 
Ys  ounce  lard  over  the  fire ;  as  soon  as  hot  put  in  the  cutlets,  fry , 
light  brown  and  well  done.  Arrange  them  on  a  warm  dish,  lay  in 
the  center  of  each  schnitzel  Y2  teaspoonful  capers.  Soak  6  ancho- 
vies in  cold  water,  remove  the  skin  and  bones,  divide  them  in 
halves,  roll  them  up  ;  place  2  of  these  rolls  on  each  schnitzel  with 
Y4  lemon  cut  into  two,  garnish  with  water  cress  or  parsley,  and 
serve.  Wiener  schnitzel  may  be  served  plain  or  with  any  kind  of 
vegetables  in  season. 

Calf s  Brain,  Fried. ‚Äî Cut  the  blanched  calf's  brain  into 
slices,  break  1  egg  into  a  small  bowl,  dip  each  slice  of  brain  sepa- 
rately in  the  beaten  egg,  and  cover  with  bread  crumbs  ;  when  all  are 


MEATS.  293 

prepared,  place  a  pan  with  Yg  ounce  butter,  and  Yg  ounce  lard  over 
the  fire ;  as  soon  as  melted  put  in  as  many  of  the  brain  pieces  as 
will  conveniently  lie  in  the  pan.  When  done  place  on  a  warm  dish, 
garnish  with  cut  lemon,  and  serve  with  French  fried  potatoes  and 
vinaigrette  sauce,  or  serve  without  sauce. 

Heidelberger  Steak. ‚Äî Take  lYs  pound  of  veal  from  the  leg 
and  4  ounces  veal  fat,  chop  both  exceedingly  fine ;  season  with  1 
even  tablespoonful  salt,  1  even  teaspoonful  pepper,  2  tablespoonfuls 
fine-chopped  onion,  1  egg-,  mix  the  ingredients  well  together, 
divide  into  6  parts,  form  them  into  oblong  shapes,  flatten  a  little, 
cover  with  fresh  grated  bread  crumbs.  Melt  1  ounce  butter  in  a 
frying  pan,  when  hot  put  in  the  steak,  fry  light  brown  on  both 
sides,  about  4  minutes  on  each  side.  When  done  lay  the  steak  on 
a  warm  dish,  add  Ys  tablespoonful  flour  to  the  gravy,  stir  and  cook 
2  minutes  ;  add  Y4  cupful  boiling  water,  1  teaspoonful  beef  extract, 
Y2  even  teaspoonful  salt,  Y4  teaspoonful  pepper,  cook  5  minutes; 
then  strain  over  the  meat,  and  serve. 

Coquilles  of  Brain  with  Tomatoes. ‚Äî Cut  2  sets  of  blanched 
calf's  brain  into  slices.  Melt  1  ounce  butter  in  a  saucepan,  add  2 
tablespoonfuls  fine-chopped  onion,  cook  6  minutes  without  brown- 
ing; add  1  teaspoonful  flour,  cook  2  minutes;  then  add  3  peeled 
and  finely  cut  tomatoes,  1  even  teaspoonful  seasoning  salt,  Ys  tea- 
spoonful sugar,  cook  slowly  10  minutes;  then  strain.  Put  the 
brain  pieces  in  a  saucepan  with  lYs  ounce  butter,  cover  and  cook  10 
minutes,  stirring  occasionally;  then  butter  6  table  shells  and  set 
them  in  a  warm  place,  fill  half  full  with  the  brain,  pour  over  a  little 
of  the  tomatoes,  sprinkle  1  tablespoonful  grated  cheese  over  each 
one,  besprinkle  with  a  little  butter,  set  in  a  hot  oven,  and  bake  light 
brown ;  then  serve  on  a  dish  with  folded  napkin. 

Calf's  Tongue  a  la  Jardiniere. ‚Äî Lay  2  calves'  tongues  for  2 
minutes  in  boiling  water,  then  remove  and  put  them  in  cold  water. 
After  5  minutes  take  the  tongues  out,  place  in  a  saucepan,  cover 
with  boiling  water ;  add  2  onions,  1  tablespoonful  seasoning  salt,  a 


294  MEATS. 

bouquet,  1  small  carrot,  and  6  whole  peppers,  cover  and  cook  till 
tender.  At  the  same  time  melt  1  ounce  butter  in  a  saucepan,  add  1 
heaping  tablespoonful  flour,  cook  2  minutes  ;  add  IY4  cupful  of  the 
strained  tongue  broth  (if  handy,  add  1  gill  of  mushroom  liquor), 
cook  5  minutes.  Mix  the  yolks  of  2  eggs  with  ^2  cupful  cream, 
add  it  to  the  sauce,  remove  from  fire ;  add  1  tablespoonful  lemon 
juice,  Y4  teaspoonf  ul  grated  nutmeg.  When  ready  to  serve,  take  the 
tongues  out,  remove  the  skin,  trim  neatly,  and  arrange  them  on  a 
hot  dish.  Have  a  pint  of  cooked  carrot  balls,  the  same  of  potato 
balls  and  small  white  onions,  lay  the  vegetables  in  a  circle  around 
the  tongues,  first  a  border  of  the  onions,  then  the  carrots,  and  last 
the  potatoes,  pour  Yg  of  the  sauce  over  the  tongue,  and  serve  the  re- 
mainder in  a  sauce  bowl ;  sprinkle  1  tablespoonful  fine-chopped 
parsley  over  the  whole  and  serve. 

Calf's  Tongue  a  TEspagnole. ‚Äî Boil  2  calves'  tongues  as  in 
foregoing  recipe.  Melt  2  ounces  butter  (or  1  gill  of  olive  oil)  in  a 
saucepan,  add  Ys  cupful  fine-chopped  onion,  1  bruised  clove  of 
garlic,  cook  3  minutes  ;  then  add  1  fine-chopped  green  pepper  with- 
out the  seeds,  cover  and  cook  6  minutes  ;  add  Ys  piiit  stewed  and 
strained  tomatoes,  1  even  teaspoonful  salt,  Ys  e^^'cn  teaspoonful 
white  pepper,  Ys  cupful  fine-chopped  mushrooms,  cook  10  min- 
utes. When  the  tongues  are  done  take  them  out,  remove  the 
skin,  trim  neatly  and  lay  them  on  a  warm  dish,  pour  the  sauce 
over,  and  garnish  with  rice  timbales ;  chop  the  yolk  of  1  hard- 
boiled  egg  fine,  lay  a  little  of  it  on  top  of  each  timbale. 

Fricandeau  a  la  Jardiniere. ‚Äî Fricandeau  is  also  called  the 
noix  or  cushion,  and  it  is  that  part  of  a  leg  of  veal  to  which  the 
udder  adheres.  In  order  to  separate  it  from  the  round  or  fillet  the 
leg  should  be  placed  on  the  table  with  the  knuckle  from  you  ;  then 
with  the  left  hand  take  hold  of  the  upper  part  of  the  fillet  of  veal, 
and  with  the  right  insert  the  point  of  a  knife  into  the  separations 
which  divide  the  fricandeau  or  noix  from  the  under  part  of  the 
fillet.     Cut  the  noix  away,  following  the  separation  right  round  to 


MEATS.  295 

the  knuckle.  Eemove  the  sinews  and  lard  the  surface  with  a  me- 
dium-sized larding  needle  ;  rub  over  1  tablespoonful  salt,  and  place 
the  fricandeau  in  a  roasting  pan  ;  add  1  tablespoonful  butter,  set 
the  pan  on  top  the  stove ;  when  the  butter  melts  baste  the  meat 
with  it,  then  add  1  cupful  white  broth  or  boiling  water,  place  the 
fricandeau  in  a  hot  oven,  baste  frequently,  and  roast  till  done. 
Shortly  before  serving  transfer  the  meat  to  a  hot  dish ;  mix  % 
tablespoonful  cornstarch  with  Yg  cup  cold  water,  add  it  to  the 
gravy  in  the  pan,  stir ^ for  a  few  minutes  over  the  fire;  then  add 
sufficient  boiling  water  or  broth  to  make  a  creamy  sauce ;  strain 
and  pour  a  few  spoonfuls  over  the  meat,  and  serve  the  remainder 
in  a  sauce  bowl.     Garnish  with  stewed  green  peas  and  carrots. 

Fricandeau  h  FAlleraande. ‚Äî Prepare  a  fricandeau  the  same 
as  in  foregoing  recipe,  lard  it  closely  with  fine  strips  of  larding  pork, 
season  with  1  teaspoonful  seasoning  salt.  Lay  the  fricandeau  in  a 
roasting  pan,  pour  over  3  ounces  melted  butter,  set  in  a  medium- 
hot  oven,  roast  10  minutes,  basting  frequently  with  its  own  gravy ; 
then  add  1  gill  of  boiling  water,  roast  again  10  minutes ;  then  add 
Yg  pint  of  sour  cream,  roast  and  baste  1  hour ;  then  lay  the  meat  on 
a  hot  dish,  garnish  with  potato  croquettes,  and  serve  with  boiled 
asparagus  or  any  kind  of  young  vegetables  in  season. 

SWEETBEEADS. 

Sweetbreads. ‚Äî What  they  are. ‚Äî Sweetbreads  are  the  thymus 
glands  in  a  calf,  found  below  the  calf's  throat,  and  divided  in  two 
lateral  portions,  right  and  left,  which  are  in  reality  distinct  from 
each  other,  being  connected  only  by  areolar  tissue.  They  are  called 
throat  and  heart  sweetbreads.  The  throat  part  is  the  larger  of  the 
two  ;  the  heart  is  whiter  and  more  delicate.  Sweetbreads  are  easily 
digested  and  very  nutritious,  and  considered  the  most  delicate  part 
of  a  calf. 

Sweetbreads ‚Äî How   to    hlanch  and   prepare. ‚Äî Lay   the 

sweetbreads  for  2  hours  in  cold  water,  changing  the  water  several 


296  MEATS. 

times ;  place  them  in  a  saucepan,  cover  with  fresh  cold  water,  let 
come  slowly  to  a  boil ;  then  draw  the  saucepan  to  the  side  of  stove, 
letting  remain  10  minutes  without  boiling ;  remove  and  lay  the 
sweetbreads  in  cold  water.  When  cold  take  them  out  of  water, 
remove  the  windpipes,  fibers,  and  fatty  parts,  and  place  them  be- 
tween 2  plates  to  press  lightly.  They  are  then  ready  to  be  prepared 
as  explained  in  following  recipes  : 

Sweetbreads  Saute. ‚Äî Procure  2  large  sweetbreads,  prepare 
and  blanch  as  in  foregoing  recipe ;  season  with  salt,  dust  lightly 
with  flour,  dip  into  beaten  egg,  and  cover  with  fine-sifted  bread 
crumbs.  Melt  lYg  ounce  butter  in  a  low  saucepan  just  large  enough 
to  receive  them  ;  as  soon  as  the  butter  is  melted  put  in  the  sweet- 
breads, cover  and  cook  slowly  30  minutes,  turning  them  carefully 
once  during  that  time.  When  ready  to  serve  lay  2  pieces  of  buttered 
toast  on  a  warm  dish,  dress  the  sweetbreads  over  them,  and  garnish 
with  water  cress. 

Sweetbreads  with  Green  Peas. ‚Äî Blanch  a  pair  of  sweet- 
breads as  directed,  season  with  1  even  teaspoonful  seasoning  salt ; 
melt  lYs  ounce  butter  in  a  low  saucepan,  put  in  the  sweetbreads, 
cover  and  cook  slowly  30  minutes,  turning  them  occasionally.  Place 
1  pint  of  young  green  peas  in  a  saucepan,  add  Yg  pint  boiling  water, 
lYs  teaspoonful  sugar,  cover  and  boil  till  done.  Mix  Ys  ounce 
butter  with  Ys  teaspoonful  cornstarch,  add  it  to  the  peas,  stir  until 
smooth,  season  with  Y2  teaspoonful  salt  and  1  teaspoonful  fine- 
chopped  parsley.  Dress  the  sweetbreads  on  a  warm  dish,  pour  the 
peas  over  them,  and  serve  with  small  boiled  potatoes.  Sweetbreads 
prepared  in  this  way  may  be  served  on  toast  or  with  croutons. 

Sweetbreads  cooked  with  Roast  Veal.‚Äî Prepare  and  blanch 
the  sweetbreads  as  directed,  season  with  salt.  Eoast  a  piece  of  veal 
Ys  hour  ;  before  serving  place  the  sweetbreads  in  the  pan  with  the 
veal,  baste  frequently,  and  cook  till  done. 

Sweetbreads  Frite  a  la  Marini^re. ‚Äî Cut  2  pairs  of  blanched 
sweetbreads  into  halves,  season  them  with  1  even  tablespoonful  salt, 


MEATS.  297 

Ya  teaspoonful  white  pepper,  the  juice  of  1  lemon ;  lay  them  in  a 
covered  dish  with  2  onions  cut  into  slices,  a  sprig  of  thyme,  and  a 
few  branches  of  fresh  parsley  ;  cover  and  let  stand  1  hour.  Then 
remove,  wipe  off  with  a  clean  towel,  dust  lightly  with  flour,  dip 
into  the  batter  (described  below),  drop  into  boiling  fat,  and  fry  like 
crullers  to  a  delicate  brown  color.  Eemove  with  a  skimmer,  lay  on 
a  sieve,  then  arrange  on  a  hot  dish  with  a  bunch  of  fried  parsley  in 
the  center  ;  serve  with  allemande  or  bechamel  sauce.  Batter  :  Mix 
the  yolks  of  2  eggs  with  1  gill  of  milk,  add  2  heaping  tablespoonfuls 
flour,  Y4  teaspoonful  salt,  1  tablespoonful  melted  butter  (measured 
after  it  is  melted)  ;  add  lastly  the  2  whites  beaten  to  a  stiff  froth, 
then  use  as  directed  above. 

Sweetlbreads  a  la  Bearnaise. ‚Äî Lard  the  upper  part  of  2  large 
blanched  and  prepared  sweetbreads  with  fine  strips  of  larding  pork ; 
lay  in  a  small  roasting  pan  with  1  thin  slice  of  larding  pork  under 
each  one ;  season  with  1  even  teaspoonful  salt,  add  2  slices  of  onions, 
the  same  of  carrots,  and  a  small  bouquet ;  cover  with  buttered  paper, 
place  the  pan  in  a  medium-hot  oven  to  roast ‚Äî 15  minutes ;  then 
add  Ya  cupful  white  broth,  baste  occasionally,  lifting  the  paper  and 
replacing  it  each  time,  roast  35  minutes.  In  the  meantime  pre- 
pare a  sauce  Bearnaise,  put  the  sauce  on  a  warm  dish,  dress  the 
sweetbreads  over  it,  and  serve.  In  place  of  Bearnaise  sauce, 
sweetbreads  may  be  served  with  different  sauces,  such  as  sauce 
allemande,  cream  bechamel,  Colbert,  duchess,  mushroom,  truffle, 
princess,  etc.  They  are  then  named  after  the  sauce  with  which 
they  are  served. 

Calf's  Brain,  Blanched. ‚Äî Soak  2  sets  of  calf's  brain  for  2 
hours  in  cold  water,  changing  the  water  several  times ;  then  remove 
the  loose  skin,  place  the  brains  in  a  saucepan,  cover  with  cold 
water,  add  Y2  giU  of  white  vinegar,  a  small  bouquet,  Y2  tablespoon- 
ful salt,  8  whole  peppers,  and  1  onion ;  boil  10  minutes.  Then  set 
the  saucepan  aside,  leaving  the  brains  to  cool  in  their  liquor;  they 
are  then  ready  to  use  for  any  dish  they  may  be  required. 


298  MEATS. 

Coquilles  of  Calf  s  Brain. ‚Äî Blanch  2  sets  of  brain  as  directed 
in  foregoing  recipe,  drain  and  cut  into  slices  ;  place  them  in  a  sauce- 
pan with  1  ounce  butter,  toss  for  a  few  minutes  over  the  fire ;  add 
Ya  cupful  fine-cut  mushrooms,  Yg  gill  of  white  wine,  Ys  giU  of  mush- 
room liquor,  cover  and  cook  10  minutes.  Melt  Y2  ounce  butter  in  a 
small  saucepan  ;  add  Y2  tablespoonful  flour,  stir  and  cook  2  minutes ; 
add  Y2  cupful  white  broth  or  boiling  water  with  a  little  beef  extract ; 
season  with  Y4  teaspoonful  salt,  the  same  of  white  pepper  and  nut- 
meg, cook  a  few  minutes ;  add  Y2  giU  of  sweet  cream ;  add  this 
sauce  to  the  brains.  Eemove  from  fire,  fill  the  preparation  into  6 
table  shells,  sprinkle  over  some  fresh  grated  bread  crumbs,  drop  a 
little  melted  butter  over  each  one,  and  bake  light  brown  in  a  hot 
oven  ;  serve  on  a  dish  with  folded  napkin. 

Petites  Casses  de  Cervelles. ‚Äî Blanch  2  sets  of  calf's  brain ; 
cut  into  slices,  lay  the  slices  in  a  small  pan,  pour  over  Y2  pi^t  boil- 
ing water  with  1  teaspoonful  beef  extract ;  place  in  a  hot  oven, 
cover  with  buttered  paper,  and  roast  15  minutes,  basting  fre- 
quently. Melt  1  ounce  butter  in  a  saucepan,  add  2  tablespoonfula 
fine-chopped  onion,  add  Y2  cupful  fine-chopped  mushrooms,  cook  6 
minutes ;  season  with  Y2  tablespoonful  fine-chopped  parsley,  1  even 
teaspoonful  salt,  Y2  even  teaspoonful  white  pepper,  cook  a  few  min- 
utes longer ;  add  Y2  tablespoonful  flour,  stir  a  few  minutes ;  then 
remove  the  brains,  add  their  gravy  to  the  fines  herbes  in  saucepan 
named  above,  and  a  few  spoonfuls  bouillon  or  boiling  water  with 
beef  extract.  Prepare  a  chicken  forcemeat  from  the  breast  of  1 
chicken  as  directed  (see  Chicken),  add  half  the  fines  herbes  to  the 
forcemeat.  Fill  6  paper  boxes  with  it  (three  fourths  full) ;  press 
the  forcemeat  on  to  the  bottom  and  sides  of  the  boxes,  so  that  there 
is  a  space  left  in  the  center  ;  fill  the  spaces  with  the  brains,  divide 
the  remaining  fines  herbes  equally,  and  put  a  portion  on  top  of  each 
box;  lay  a  thin  slice  of  pork  on  each  box,  place  the  boxes  on  a 
shallow  tin  pan,  set  them  in  a  hot  oven,  and  bake  12  to  15  minutes ; 
then  take  out,  remove  the  pork,  and  if  there  is  too  much  fat  pour  it 


MEATS.  299 

off.  Put  a  little  tomato  or  allemande  sauce  over  each  one,  and  serve 
on  a  dish  with  folded  napkin.  These  can  be  prepared  of  sweet- 
breads in  the  same  way. 

Scallops  of  Sweetbreads  with  Mushrooms.‚Äî Cut  2  pairs 
of  blanched  sweetbreads  into  oval  scallops ;  melt  2  ounces  of  butter 
in  a  small  saucepan,  season  the  scallops  with  1  teaspoonful  season- 
ing salt ;  put  them  into  the  butter,  add  the  juice  of  Yg  lemon,  y^ 
teaspoonful  grated  nutmeg,  cover  and  stew  10  minutes ;  add  1  tea- 
spoonful  fine-chopped  parsley,  remove  from  fire,  and  set  aside. 
Prepare  Yg  pint  of  thick  allemande  sauce,  mix  it  with  Ys  cupful 
fine-ground  roasted  chicken  meat  of  the  breast  of  chicken.  When 
the  scallops  are  nearly  cold  cover  each  one  with  this  preparation, 
set  for  1  hour  in  a  cool  place.  Then  dip  them  into  beaten  egg  and 
fine  sifted  bread  crumbs ;  fry  them  in  pure  boiling  lard  to  a  delicate 
brown ;  drain  on  blotting  paper  or  napkin.  Arrange  in  a  close 
circle  on  a  warm  dish,  pour  in  the  center  1  pint  of  stewed  but- 
ton mushrooms,  and  serve. 

Calves'  Brain  a  I'Alfonso. ‚Äî Blanch  and  prepare  2  sets  of 
calves'  brains  as  directed  in  former  recipe.  Place  a  saucepan  with  2 
ounces  larding  pork  and  2  ounces  of  raw  ham  over  the  fire  ;  put  the 
brains  on  top  of  this,  add  1  gill  of  white  wine  or  the  juice  of  Ya 
lemon;  cover  with  veal  or  chicken  broth,  lay  2  ounces  larding 
pork  cut  into  fine  slices  over  them  ;  put  on  the  cover,  and  cook 
slowly  15  minutes.  Then  drain  the  brains  on  a  sieve  and  cut  them 
into  slices.  Melt  1  ounce  butter  in  a  saucepan,  add  the  brains,  toss 
them  for  a  few  minutes  over  the  fire.  Arrange  nicely  over  6  slices 
of  buttered  toast;  pour  over  1  pint  of  hot  tomato  sauce  a  I'alle- 
mande,  and  serve.     Sweetbreads  may  be  prepared  in  the  same  way. 

Sweetbreads  a  la  Fonchonette.‚Äî Separate  2  large  pairs  of 
blanched  sweet  breads  into  small  pieces  and  put  them  into  a  sauce- 
pan ;  add  12  small  mushrooms  cut  into  quarters,  2  sliced  truffles,  1 
even  teaspoonful  seasoning  salt,  a  pinch  of  Cayenne  pepper,  and  1 
gill  of  Rhine  wine ;  cover,  and  cook  10  minutes.  Mix  the  yolks  of 
20 


300  MEATS. 

4  eggs  with  lYg  gill  of  cream,  add  it  to  the  sweetbreads  stir  a  few 
minutes  over  the  fire  without  boiling,  and  serve  with  finger  rolls  or 
fleurons. 

LAMB, 

Braised  Shoulder  of  Lamb. ‚Äî Eemove  the  bones  from  a  nice 
shoulder  of  lamb  or  young  mutton,  season  with  1  tablespoonful 
seasoning  salt,  roll  up,  and  tie  securely  with  3  strings  into  a  perfect 
round  roll.  Take  a  saucepan  large  enough  to  receive  the  meat, 
cover  its  bottom  with  4  ounces  of  salt  pork,  3  sliced  onions,  1  car- 
rot, and  the  bones  from  the  meat ;  lay  the  meat  on  top,  add  suffi- 
cient boiling  water  to  nearly  cover,  closely  cover  and  boil  slowly 
till  done,  which  will  take  about  2  hours.  Remove  the  meat  to  a 
roasting  pan  not  much  larger  than  the  meat ;  strain  the  broth,  re- 
move the  fat,  then  pour  lYg  pint  of  the  broth  into  the  pan  with  the 
meat,  and  place  in  a  hot  oven  ;  roast,  and  baste  frequently  till  the 
meat  is  brown  all  over  and  the  broth  has  cooked  to  half  glaze. 
Lay  the  meat  on  a  hot  dish,  remove  the  strings,  free  the  gravy  from 
all  fat,  add  1  gill  of  broth  to  the  gravy,  let  it  boil  up,  strain,  and 
serve  with  the  meat.  Serve  with  boiled  potatoes  and  string  beans 
a  la  cr^me ;  or  thicken  the  gravy  with  Yg  tablespoonful  cornstarch, 
diluted  with  Ys  giU  of  cold  water,  add  sufficient  broth  to  make  a 
creamy  sauce. 

Braised  Shoulder  of  Lamb  a  I'ltalienne.‚Äî Take  a  nice 
shoulder  of  lamb,  wipe  it  off  with  a  damp  cloth ;  place  in  a  sauce- 
pan with  1  pound  of  parboiled  salt  pork,  3  onions,  1  carrot,  a  bou- 
quet, and  1  even  teaspoonful  pepper ;  cover  with  boiling  water  and 
set  over  the  fire,  cover  and  boil  slowly  till  done ;  then  remove,  strain 
the  broth,  free  it  from  fat ;  place  the  meat  in  a  baking  pan,  add  Y2 
pint  of  broth  and  set  in  a  hot  oven,  baste  often,  and  roast  20 
minutes.  Melt  1  ounce  butter  in  a  saucepan,  add  1  tablespoonful 
flour,  stir  2  minutes;  add  the  gravy  from  the  meat,  and  sufficient 
broth  to  make  1  pint  of  sauce,  boil  3  minutes ;  place  the  meat  on 
a  hot  dish,  pour  a  few  spoonfuls  of  sauce  over  the  meat,  and  the 


MEATS.  301 

remainder  in  a  sauce  bowl,  cut  the  pork  into  thin  slices,  and  lay  it 
around  the  dish  ;  serve  with  macaroni  a  I'ltalienne. 

Leg  of  Lamb  a  rAUemande. ‚Äî Procure  a  nice  leg  of  lamb, 
season  with  1  tablespoonful  seasoning  salt ;  place  in  a  baking  pan, 
set  it  on  top  the  stove,  pour  over  2  ounces  melted  butter,  baste  the 
meat  5  minutes  with  the  butter ;  then  set  the  pan  in  a  moderately 
hot  oven,  roast  15  minutes,  and  baste  with  its  own  gravy ;  add  1 
cupful  boiling  water,  continue  to  roast,  basting  frequently,  until 
done,  which  will  take  IY2  hour;  if  necessary  add  more  water. 
Fifteen  minutes  before  the  lamb  is  done,  sprinkle  a  half  cupful  fine- 
chopped  onion  over  it,  continue  to  roast,  basting  frequently,  10 
minutes.  When  ready  to  serve  lay  the  meat  on  a  warm  dish ;  re- 
move all  fat  from  gravy ;  mix  1  tablespoonful  cornstarch  with  1  gill 
of  cold  water,  add  it  to  the  gravy,  cook  a  few  minutes  on  top  the 
stove  ;  add  sufiBcient  boiling  water  to  make  a  creamy  sauce,  cook  5 
minutes,  then  strain.  Pour  1  gill  of  sauce  over  the  meat,  and 
serve  with  stewed  green  peas  and  carrots,  also  boiled  potatoes. 
Brussels  sprouts  or  Savoy  cabbage  a  la  creme  may  be  served  in*  place 
of  peas  and  carrots. 

Braised  Leg  of  Lamb  a  la  Polonaise. ‚Äî Remove  the  fat  of  a 
nice  leg  of  lamb,  wash,  and  wipe  it  dry ;  place  a  saucepan  with  2 
ounces  butter  over  the  fire  ;  when  hot  put  in  the  meat,  season  with 
salt,  turn  several  times  around  so  that  the  butter  touches  every  part ; 
then  add  1  quart  of  beer,  3  onions,  3  bay  leaves,  2  blades  of  mace,  Yg 
dozen  whole  peppers,  1  carrot,  and  a  little  celery,  cover  tightly  and 
let  stew  till  done.  When  ready  to  serve  lay  the  meat  on  a  hot  dish, 
remove  the  fat  from  gravy,  mix  V2  tablespoonful  cornstarch  with  Y2 
gill  of  cold  water,  add  it  to  the  gravy,  cook  a  few  minutes,  then 
strain ;  add  Yg  pint  small  mushrooms  which  have  been  stewed  in 
butter,  and  season  with  lemon  juice. 

Lamb  Boiled  with  Pork. ‚Äî Put  IY2  pound  of  lean  salt  pork 
covered  with  cold  water  in  a  kettle  over  the  fire ;  when  it  boils  add  a 
leg  of  lamb,  and  boil  the  two  together  until  tender.     When  done  re- 


302  MEATS. 

move  the  kettle  from  fire,  leave  the  meat  in  the  liquor  until  nearly 
cold ;  then  take  it  out ;  serve  it  cold  cut  up  in  slices ;  arrange 
alternately  a  slice  of  pork  and  a  slice  of  lamb  on  a  dish,  and  send 
mustard  and  pickles  to  table  with  it. 

Roast  Laml),  Plain. ‚Äî Select  a  nice  leg  of  lamb ;  do  not  wash 
it,  but  wipe  off  with  a  damp  towel ;  season  with  1  tablespoonful 
seasoning  salt,  place  in  a  roasting  pan  and  roast  10  minutes ;  then 
add  1  cupful  boiling  water,  continue  to  roast,  basting  frequently, 
till  done,  which  will  take  about  IY3  hour.  When  done  transfer  the 
lamb  to  a  hot  dish,  remove  all  the  fat  from  gravy ;  mix  1  even 
tablespoonful  cornstarch  with  1  gill  of  cold  water,  add  it  to  the 
gravy,  stir  2  minutes  ;  add  sufficient  boiling  water  to  make  a  creamy 
sauce,  boil  3  minutes  ;  then  strain  and  serve  with  the  meat,  pouring 
a  few  spoonfuls  of  gravy  over.  Serve  with  green  peas  and  boiled 
potatoes. 

Roast  Lamb  with  Mint  Sauce.‚Äî Prepare  the  lamb  as  in  fore- 
going recipe,  and  send,  in  addition  to  the  meat  sauce,  a  mint  sauce 
to  table.  Eoast  lamb  may  be  served  with  the  following  vegetables : 
Baked  and  stewed  tomatoes,  green  corn  boiled  on  the  cob,  creamed 
corn  or  succotash,  stewed  Lima  beans,  fried  eggplant,  fried  cucum- 
bers, cauliflower,  creamed  butter  beans.  Savoy  cabbage,  and  sweet 
potatoes. 

Roast  Lamb  a  I'Asliwarden. ‚Äî Procure  a  nice  leg  of  lamb, 
season  with  1  tablespoonful  seasoning  salt ;  make  4  incisions  on  top 
the  meat,  insert  74  onion  into  each  incision  so  as  to  hide  the  onion 
from  view ;  place  the  meat  in  a  large  bowl  or  stone  jar,  pour  over  3 
cupfuls  of  thick  sour  cream,  cover  and  set  in  a  cool  place  for  24 
hours,  turning  the  meat  twice  during  that  time.  When  ready  to 
cook,  place  the  meat  in  a  roasting  pan,  spread  1  ounce  of  butter 
over  it,  set  in  a  hot  oven,  and  roast  15  minutes,  basting  frequently 
with  its  own  gravy ;  then  add  the  cream  of  the  meat,  and  roast  till 
done.  When  ready  to  serve,  lay  the  meat  on  a  hot  dish,  remove  all 
fat  from  the  gravy,  strain  and  pour  into  a  gravy  bowl.     Serve  with 


MEATS.  303 

yeast   dumplings,   boiled  potatoes,   and    stewed   apples   or  spiced 
plums. 

Eoast  Laml)  a  la  Rade. ‚Äî Lard  closely  a  nice  leg  of  lamb  with 
fine  strips  of  larding  pork,  season  with  1  tablespoonful  seasoning 
salt;  place  a  saucepan  large  enough  to  receive  the  meat  over  the 
fire,  put  in  2  ounces  fine-cut  larding  pork,  fry  light  brown ;  add  2 
ounces  butter,  put  in  the  meat,  cook  and  turn  frequently  until  ob- 
tained a  nice  brown  color ;  then  add  1  cupful  broth,  stock,  or  water, 
cover  and  cook  15  minutes  ;  add  1  pint  sour  cream  and  1  whole 
onion,  continue  to  cook  until  done,  which  will  take  about  1%  hour. 
(If  the  gravy  should  boil  away  too  much  add  more  stock  or  water.) 
Shortly  before  serving,  lay  the  meat  on  a  hot  dish,  remove  all  fat 
from  gravy ;  mix  Yg  tablespoonful  cornstarch  with  1  gill  of  cold 
water,  add  to  the  gravy,  stir  for  a  few  minutes ;  add  sufficient  stock 
or  water  to  make  1  pint  of  sauce,  boil  3  minutes ;  then  strain ;  pour 
1  gill  of  sauce  over  the  meat,  and  serve  the  remainder  in  a  sauce 
bowl.  Serve  with  green  corn  boiled  on  the  cob,  stewed  fresh  Lima 
beans  or  peas,  and  boiled  potatoes.  In  north  Germany  it  is  served 
with  German  pheasant  pudding,  stewed  fruit,  and  potatoes.  (For 
German  Pheasant  Pudding,  see  Roasted  Fresh  Ham.) 

Roasted  Forequarter  of  Laml).‚Äî Procure  a  nice  forequarter 
of  lamb,  cut  off  the  rack  6  inches  wide,  have  this  cut  up  into 
chops  (they  may  be  put  aside  for  breakfast),  wipe  the  remaining 
meat  off  with  a  damp  cloth,  season  with  salt  and  pepper  ;  lay  it  in 
a  roasting  pan  and  roast  25  minutes ;  then  add  1  cup  boiling  water, 
continue  to  roast  and  baste  till  done ;  15  minutes  before  serving 
sprinkle  Yg  cupful  fine-chopped  onion  over  the  meat,  continue  to 
roast  and  baste  10  minutes ;  lay  on  a  warm  dish,  remove  the  fat 
from  gravy  ;  mix  1  tablespoonful  cornstarch  with  1  gill  of  cold 
water,  add  it  to  the  gravy,  stir  and  cook  2  minutes ;  add  sufficient 
boiling  water  to  make  a  creamy  sauce,  boil  5  minutes  ;  then  strain 
through  a  fine  sieve  ;  add  Yg  ounce  butter,  pour  1  gill  of  sauce  over 
the  meat,  and  serve  the  remainder  in  a  sauce  bowl.  Serve  with 
string  beans  a  la  creme,  boiled  potatoes,  and  tomato  salad. 


304:  MEATS. 

Breast  of  Lamb. ‚Äî Procure  2  breasts  of  lamb,  season  them 
with.  1  tablespoonful  seasoning  salt,  and  roast  as  in  foregoing 
recipe. 

Breast  of  Lamb,  Braised. ‚Äî Place  2  breasts  of  lamb  in  a  sauce- 
pan, cover  barely  with  boiling  water ;  add  1  tablespoonful  salt,  1 
teaspoonf  ul  pepper,  3  medium-sized  onions,  1  carrot,  and  a  bouquet ; 
cover  and  boil  till  tender ;  take  out  the  breast ;  strain  the  broth, 
remove  all  fat,  and  reduce  by  boiling  down  to  one  half.  Place  the 
meat  in  a  roasting  pan,  pour  over  the  broth,  set  the  pan  in  a  hot 
oven,  roast  and  baste  20  minutes  ;  then  lay  the  lamb  on  a  hot  dish. 
Melt  1  ounce  butter  in  a  saucepan,  add  1  tablespoonful  flour,  stir 
for  a  few  minutes  ;  add  the  gravy  from  pan,  and  if  too  thick  dilute 
it  with  boiling  water ;  pour  1  gill  of  the  sauce  over  the  meat,  and 
serve  the  remainder  with  the  meat. 

Shoulder  of  Lamb,  Stuffed.‚Äî Remove  the  bones  from  a 
shoulder  of  lamb  except  the  leg  bone,  which  must  be  left  on. 
Spread  the  shoulder  open,  season  with  salt  and  pepper,  fill  with 
veal  or  sausage  forcemeat,  sew  it  up,  rub  1  even  teaspoonful  season- 
ing salt  over  the  meat.  Put  1  pound  of  salt  pork  in  a  saucepan, 
add  2  onions,  1  carrot,  a  bouquet,  and  12  whole  peppers ;  lay  the 
shoulder  on  top  of  this,  add  sufficient  boiling  water  or  broth  to 
nearly  cover  the  meat ;  put  over  it  buttered  paper,  then  the  lid,  set 
over  a  moderate  fire,  and  boil  slowly  IY2  hour ;  then  take  out  the 
meat,  lay  it  in  a  rdasting  pan  ;  strain  the  broth,  remove  all  the  fat  ‚Ä¢ 
pour  the  broth  over  the  meat,  set  in  a  hot  oven,  roast  20  minutes, 
basting  frequently ;  dress  the  meat  on  a  hot  dish,  remove  the 
threads,  cut  the  pork  into  thin  slices,  and  garnish  the  shoulder 
alternately  with  the  sliced  pork  and  boiled  cabbage  rolls  (see  Cab- 
bage). Melt  1  ounce  butter  in  a  saucepan,  add  1  tablespoonful  of 
flour,  stir  a  few  minutes ;  add  the  broth  from  the  meat ;  if  too  thick 
dilute  it  with  boiling  water,  if  too  thin  reduce  it  by  boiling  to  1  pint 
of  sauce.  Pour  a  little  sauce  over  the  meat  and  cabbage,  and  serve 
the  remainder  in  a  sauce  bowl. 


MEATS.  305 

Boiled  Leg  of  Lamb. ‚Äî Place  a  leg  of  lamb  in  a  large  sauce- 
pan, add  2  pounds  of  lean  salt  pork,  2  onions,  Yg  carrot,  cover  and 
boil  till  done.  When  ready  to  serve  lay  the  meat  on  a  hot  dish,  also 
the  pork,  and  serve  with  mushroom  sauce ;  cauliflower  or  Lima 
beans,  and  boiled  potatoes  may  be  served  with  this  or  any  kind  of 
vegetables  in  season.  In  place  of  mushroom  sauce  a  caper,  tomato, 
allemande,  horseradish,  onion,  or  a  bechamel  sauce  may  be  served 
with  it. 

Lamb  Stew. ‚Äî Procure  2y2  pounds  lamb  from  the  forequarter, 
cut  into  2-inch  pieces  ;  place  in  a  covered  saucepan,  cover  with  boil- 
ing water,  add  2  even  tablespoonfuls  salt,  1  even  teaspoonful  pepper, 
2  fine-cut  onions,  and  cook  40  minutes ;  then  add  1  quart  peeled 
potatoes ;  when  nearly  done  melt  1  ounce  butter  in  a  saucepan,  add 
1  tablespoonful  flour,  cook  a  few  minutes,  add  it  to  the  stew,  and 
cook  till  done  ;  serve  on  a  warm  dish. 

Lamb  Stew  ^  I'Allemande. ‚Äî Cut  2Y2  pounds  lamb  off  the  fore- 
quarter  into  2-inch  pieces,  place  the  meat  in  a  saucepan,  cover  with 
boiling  water,  let  it  remain  2  minutes  ;  then  drain  the  meat  on  a  sieve 
and  plunge  it  instantly  into  cold  water  ;  return  the  meat  to  the  sauce- 
pan, cover  with  fresh  boiling  water,  add  2  even  tablespoonfuls  salt, 

1  even  tablespoonful  pepper,  12  small  white  (or  4  medium-sized) 
onions,  cover  and  cook  1  hour.  Melt  2  ounces  butter  in  a  saucepan, 
add  2  heaping  tablespoonfuls  flour,  stir  3  minutes  ;  add  1  quart  of  the 
strained  broth,  cook  5  minutes  ;  mix  the  yolks  of  2  eggs  with  Yg  cup- 
ful cream,  add  it  to  the  sauce  ;  remove  from  the  fire  ;  add  the  juice  of 
Y2  lemon  and  a  little  nutmeg,  arrange  the  meat  on  a  hot  dish,  pour 
the  sauce  over  and  garnish  with  6  nudle  timbales,  then  serve.  In 
place  of  nudle,  spaghetti  or  rice  timbales  may  be  used  as  a  garnish, 
or  a  border  of  either  of  them  may  be  put  around  the  stew. 

Lamb  Fricassee  with  Farina  Dumplings. ‚Äî Dip  2  breasts 
of  lamb  into  boiling  water,  then  instantly  into  cold  water  ;  cut  the 
meat  into  2-inch  pieces.     Melt  2  ounces  butter  in  a  saucepan,  add 

2  tablespoonfuls  fine-chopped  onions,  and  cook  5  minutes  without 


306  MEATS. 

browning;  season  the  meat  with  1  tablespoonful  seasoning  salt; 
add  it  to  the  saucepan,  cook  10  minutes ;  then  cover  with  boiling 
water,  put  on  the  lid,  and  cook  till  done.  Shortly  before  serving 
melt  Yg  tablespoonful  butter,  add  Yg  tablespoonful  flour,  stir  and 
cook  a  few  minutes ;  add  it  to  the  fricassee,  boil  for  a  few  minutes 
longer ;  then  serve  on  a  warm  dish  with  farina  dumplings.  Veal 
fricassee  may  be  prepared  in  the  same  way. 

Spring-laml)  Stew.‚Äî Three  pounds  lamb  off  the  breast,  6 
young  white  turnips,  2  bunches  of  young  carrots,  1  pint  of  green 
peas,  1  quart  small  new  potatoes,  3  white  onions,  IY2  even  table- 
spoonful salt,  1  even  teaspoonful  white  pepper,  3  quarts  boiling 
water.  For  dumplings  :  1  cup  flour,  1  of  milk,  1  tablespoonful  but- 
ter, 2  eggs,  nutmeg,  and  salt.  After  cutting  the  meat  into  2-inch 
sized  pieces  put  it  into  a  bowl,  pour  over  sufficient  boiling  water  to 
cover,  let  it  lay  for  2  minutes,  drain  it  in  colander,  and  rinse  off  with 
cold  water.  Place  the  meat  in  a  saucepan,  cover  with  3  quarts  boil- 
ing water,  put  it  over  the  fire,  add  the  salt  and  pepper ;  peel  and 
cut  the  turnips  into  quarters,  also  the  onions,  scrape  and  cut  the 
carrots  into  strips,  add  all  to  the  stew,  cover  and  boil  Y2  hour ;  then 
add  the  well-cleaned  potatoes  and  peas,  boil  until  done.  In  the 
meantime  prepare  the  dumplings.  Boil  1  cnp  of  milk  with  1  table- 
spoonful butter,  add  1  cup  flour,  stir  until  formed  into  a  smooth 
paste,  and  loosening  itself  from  bottom  of  saucepan ;  remove  from 
fire,  mix  the  paste  thoroughly  with  the  2  yolks,  beat  the  whites  to  a 
stiff  froth,  add  to  the  paste ;  season  with  a  little  salt  and  very  little 
nutmeg.  Melt  1  ounce  butter  in  a  small  saucepan,  add  1  table- 
spoonful flour,  stir  3  minutes,  and  add  it  to  the  stew.  Cut  with  a 
small  spoon  dumplings  from  the  paste,  and  drop  them  into  the 
stew,  cover  and  boil  5  minutes ;  remove  to  side  of  stove,  where  it 
will  stop  boiling.  When  ready  to  serve,  add  1  tablespoonful  fine- 
chopped  parsley. 

Ragotlt  of  Lamb. ‚Äî Cut  the  meat  from  a  shoulder  of  lamb 
into  1-inch  sized  pieces,  season  them  with  1  tablespoonful  seasoning 


MEATS.  807 

salt ;  melt  2  ounces  butter  in  a  saucepan,  add  2  fine-chopped  onions, 
cook  3  minutes ;  add  the  lamb,  stir  a  few  minutes ;  cover,  and  let  it 
cook  slowly  20  minutes,  then  dust  over  2  tablespoonfuls  flour,  stir 
3  minutes ;  add  1  quart  of  meat  broth  or  boiling  water,  stir  again ; 
then  draw  the  saucepan  to  side  of  stove,  and  let  it  cook  slowly  till 
done.     Serve  on  a  hot  dish  with  cooked  vegetables  in  season. 

Haricot  de  Mouton. ‚Äî Cut  a  shoulder  of  mutton  or  lamb 
into  1-inch  pieces,  about  3  pounds,  season  with  1  tablespoonful 
seasoning  salt,  mix  seasoning  and  meat  well  together.  Place  a 
saucepan  over  the  fire,  with  2  fine-chopped  onions,  1  ounce  butter, 
1  clove  of  bruised  garlic,  stir  and  cook  3  minutes;  then  add  the 
meat,  stir  for  a  few  minutes,  cover,  and  let  cook  slowly  30  minutes. 
In  the  meantime  melt  2  ounces  butter  in  a  small  saucepan,  add  2 
tablespoonfuls  flour,  stir  and  cook  2  minutes ;  add  1  quart  of  broth 
or  boiling  water,  with  a  little  beef  extract,  add  a  bouquet  and  6 
small  onions,  cook  5  minutes ;  then  add  it  to  the  meat,  cook  until 
done.  Shortly  before  serving,  remove  the  bouquet  and  every  par- 
ticle of  fat.  Dress  the  haricot  on  a  hot  dish,  and  garnish  with 
cooked  Lima  beans  and  carrot  balls. 

Lamlb  a  la  Milanaise. ‚Äî Procure  273  pounds  lamb  from  the 
shoulder,  cut  into  2-inch  pieces,  wash  in  cold  water,  and  season 
with  1  tablespoonful  salt,  1  teaspoonful  pepper ;  rub  the  meat  and 
seasoning  well  together.  Place  a  saucepan  with  1  tablespoonful 
butter  over  the  fire,  add  Yg  cupful  fine-chopped  onions  and  1  bruised 
clove  of  garlic,  cook  5  minutes;  then  put  in  the  meat,  stir  fre- 
quently, and  cook  15  minutes;  add  Yg  pint  of  canned  tomatoes, 
cover,  and  cook  slowly  Ys  hour.  Melt  Ys  tablespoonful  butter  in  a 
saucej)an,  add  Ys  tablespoonful  flour,  stir  and  cook  2  minutes ;  add 
Y2  pint  broth  or  boiling  water,  cook  3  minutes ;  add  it  to  the  meat, 
cook  15  minutes,  and  serve  with  boiled  rice. 

Lamb  Fries,  Broiled. ‚Äî Eemove  the  skin  from  4  lamb  fries, 
cut  each  one  into  3  slices,  season  with  1  teaspoonful  seasoning  salt, 
mix  2  tablespoonfuls  olive  oil  with  Ys  teaspoonful  English  mixed 


308  MEATS. 

mustard,  1  tablespoonful  lemon  juice,  pour  this  over  the  slices ;  mix 
well  together  ;  dip  each  slice  into  fresh  grated  bread  crumbs,  lay  on 
a  hot  broiler,  and  broil  over  a  clear  fire  10  minutes,  turning  fre- 
quently. Serve  on  a  warm  dish,  garnish  with  cut  lemon,  and  serve 
with  following  sauce :  Melt  Yg  ounce  butter  in  a  saucepan,  add  1 
tablespoonful  fine-chopped  onion,  cook  5  minutes ;  add  Yg  table- 
spoonful  flour,  cook  3  minutes ;  then  add  1  cup  boiling  water, 
Yg  even  teaspoonful  salt,  a  little  white  pepper,  and  a  small  bou- 
quet, cook  6  minutes.  Strain,  add  1  teaspoonful  beef  extract,  Y2 
teaspoonful  English  mixed  mustard,  a  little  Cayenne  pepper,  and 
serve. 

Laml)  Fries  h,  rAllemande. ‚Äî Eemove  the  skin  from  6  lamb 
fries,  cut  each  one  into  3  slices,  season  with  1  even  tablespoonful 
seasoning  salt,  lay  in  a  covered  dish  with  1  tablespoonful  oil  and 
the  juice  of  1  lemon,  cover,  and  set  aside  1  hour.  Eemove,  dry  on  a 
towel,  and  dust  with  flour ;  dip  each  slice  in  beaten  egg,  and  cover 
with  fine  grated  bread  crumbs.  Melt  Y2  ounce  butter  and  Ys  ounce 
pure  lard,  when  hot  put  in  the  lamb  fries,  fry  light  brown  on  both 
sides ;  dress  on  a  warm  dish  in  a  pyramid,  put  on  top  a  bunch  of 
fried  parsley,  lay  some  quarters  of  lemon  in  a  circle  around  it,  and 
serve  with  tomato  sauce  ^  I'allemande. 

Lamb  Haslet  Eagoftt.‚Äî Place  a  lamb's  heart  and  liver  in  a 
saucepan  of  boiling  water,  cook  5  minutes ;  then  remove  and  in- 
stantly plunge  into  cold  water ;  let  it  lie  5  minutes ;  remove  and 
cut  the  liver  and  heart  into  1-inch  pieces.  Put  a  saucepan  with 
2  ounces  fine-cut  larding  pork  over  the  fire,  fry  light  brown  ;  add 
2  tablespoonfuls  fine-chopped  onion,  cook  3  minutes ;  season  the 
heart  and  liver  with  1  tablespoonful  seasoning  salt,  add  them  to 
the  saucepan,  cover  and  cook  10  minutes,  stirring  frequently ;  then 
cover  with  1  pint  of  stock  or  broth,  add  Ys  can  of  mushrooms,  a  small 
bouquet,  cook  25  minutes ;  add  the  juice  of  1  lemon,  boil  12  small 
white  onions  10  minutes  in  water  with  1  teaspoonful  sugar ;  then 
drain,  and  add  to  the  ragout.     Melt  1  ounce  butter,  add  1  table- 


MEATS.  309 

spoonful  flour,  stir  2  minutes  ;  add  it  to  the  saucepan,  and  cook  a 
few  minutes  longer.  Serve  on  a  warm  dish,  and  garnish  with  small 
slices  of  bread  fried  brown  in  butter  or  with  a  nudle  border,  rice 
timbales,  or  farina  dumplings.  (If  mushrooms  are  not  handy  they 
may  be  omitted.) 

Xamb  Hakel-Lummels. ‚Äî Place  a  lamb's  head  and  haslet  in 
a  saucepan,  cover  with  boiling  water,  add  1  tablespoonful  salt,  1 
teaspoonful  pepper,  3  onions,  1  small  carrot,  and  a  bouquet ;  cover 
and  cook  slowly  till  tender.  When  done  take  it  from  the  saucepan, 
remove  all  the  meat  from  the  head,  cut  it  into  small  pieces,  and 
the  haslet  into  1-inch  pieces.  Melt  2  ounces  butter  in  a  sauce- 
pan, add  1  fine-chopped  onion,  cook  5  minutes  without  browning ; 
add  1  tablespoonful  flour,  stir  2  minutes ;  add  2  cupfuls  broth 
from  the  haslet,  1  cup  white  vinegar,  2  tablespoonfuls  sugar,  boil 
a  few  minutes  ;  add  the  fine-cut  meat,  cook  5  minutes  ;  then  taste 
if  necessary,  add  salt  and  pepper,  and  serve  with  potatoes  or  farina 
dumplings. 

Lamb  Haslet,  Braised.‚Äî Chop  1  onion  exceedingly  fine,  mix 
it  with  1  tablespoonful  seasoning  salt ;  cut  4  ounces  larding  pork 
into  strips  half  a  finger  thick,  roll  the  slices  of  pork  in  the  seasoning ; 
make  6  incisions  in  the  liver  and  3  in  the  heart  with  a  small  pointed 
knife,  put  1  strip  of  pork  into  each  incision ;  cut  the  pork  even 
with  the  liver,  rub  the  remaining  seasoning  all  over  the  liver  and 
heart.  Put  a  few  slices  of  pork  or  the  trimmings  in  a  saucepan, 
add  2  sliced  onions,  1  small  carrot,  lay  the  heart  and  liver  on  top  of 
this,  add  1  quart  of  stock,  cover  first  with  buttered  paper,  then 
put  on  the  lid ;  cook  slowly  1  hour ;  then  take  the  heart  and  liver 
out,  lay  in  a  baking  pan ;  strain  the  broth,  free  it  from  fat,  and 
pour  over  the  liver  and  heart ;  set  the  pan  in  a  hot  oven,  roast  ^s 
hour,  basting  frequently.  Shortly  before  serving  lay  the  haslet 
on  a  warm  dish,  melt  1  ounce  butter  in  a  small  saucepan,  add  Yg 
tablespoonful  flour,  cook  2  minutes  ;  add  the  gravy  from  pan,  cook 
5  minutes  ;  add  the  juice  of  Yg  lemon,  a  pinch  of  sugar,  and  a  little 


310  MEATS. 

beef  extract,  pour  a  little  sauce  over  the  liver  and  heart,  and  serve 
the  remainder  in  a  sauce  bowl ;  garnish  with  potato  patricia  and 
carrot  balls. 

Lamb  Trotters,  Boiled. ‚Äî Dip  1  dozen  lambs'  feet  into  boil- 
ing water,  scrape  clean,  split  them  underneath,  remove  the  pointed 
hoof  bones,  leaving  the  foot  whole.  Mix  1  tablespoonful  flour  with 
Y2  pint  of  cold  water,  add  3  pints  boiling  water,  1  onion,  1  small  clove 
of  garlic,  1  tablespoonful  salt,  a  bouquet,  and  12  whole  peppers; 
cover  and  cook  slowly  4  hours.  When  done,  drain,  and  serve  with 
any  kind  of  sauce  desired. 

Lamb  Tongue  a  TAllemande.‚Äî Place  12  lambs'  tongues  in  a 
saucepan,  cover  with  boiling  water,  cook  3  minutes,  then  drain,  and 
put  them  for  a  few  minutes  in  cold  water ;  return  the  tongues  to 
saucepan,  add  sufficient  boiling  water  to  cover,  1  onion,  1  small  carrot, 
a  bouquet,  1  tablespoonful  salt,  and  12  whole  peppers,  cook  until 
tender ;  when  done,  take  the  tongues  out,  remove  the  white  skin, 
and  set  in  a  warm  place.  Melt  1  ounce  butter  in  a  saucepan,  add  1 
heaping  tablespoonful  flour,  stir  and  cook  2  minutes ;  add  V-J^  cup- 
ful white  broth,  %  cupful  mushroom  liquor,  1  even  teaspoonf ul  salt, 
V4  teaspoonful  white  pepper,  and  a  small  bouquet,  cook  6  minutes  ; 
then  strain,  add  the  juice  of  V2  lemon ;  mix  the  yolks  of  2  eggs  with 
Ys  cupful  cream,  add  gradually  to  the  sauce.  Place  the  tongue  on  a 
hot  dish,  pour  over  the  sauce,  garnish  with  6  rice  timbales,  and 
serve. 

Lamb  Tongue  a  la  Jardiniere.‚Äî Boil  1  dozen  lambs'  tongues 
as  in  the  foregoing  recipe.  Place  1  pint  green  peas  in  a  saucepan, 
cover  with  boiling  water,  add  1  teaspoonful  sugar,  and  cook  till 
done  and  nearly  dry ;  add  Yg  ounce  butter  mixed  with  Y4  teaspoon- 
ful cornstarch,  season  with  Y2  even  teaspoonful  salt,  cook  a  few 
minutes ;  add  1  teaspoonful  fine-chopped  parsley,  2  tablespoon- 
fuls  cream,  or  a  little  unsweetened  condensed  milk;  cook  1  pint 
carrots  (cut  julienne)  in  boiling  water,  with  1  tablespoonful  sugar; 
when  done  and  nearly  dry,  add  Y2  ounce  butter  mixed  with  Ys  tea- 


MEATS.  311 

spoonful  cornstarch,  season  with  Yg  even  teaspoonful  salt,  and  cook 
a  few  minutes ;  add  1  teaspoonful  chopped  parsley ;  then  arrange 
the  tongues  on  a  warm  dish,  lay  in  a  circle  13  small  boiled  potatoes 
around  them,  and  serve. 

Broiled  Lamb  Tongue. ‚Äî Split  12  boiled  lamb  tongues  in  half, 
dip  them  in  melted  butter,  cover  with  fresh  grated  bread  crumbs, 
lay  the  tongue  on  a  hot  broiler,  and  broil  light  brown  on  both  sides. 
Dress  the  tongue  on  a  warm  dish,  spread  over  2  ounces  maitre 
d'hotel  butter,  and  garnish  with  fried  tomatoes. 

Lamlb  Tongue  a  la  Tortonia. ‚Äî Prepare  12  lambs'  tongues  as 
in  foregoing  recipe,  serve,  in  place  of  maitre  d'hotel  butter,  with 
tomato  sauce,  and  garnish  with  potatoes  tortonia. 

Lamb  Chops,  Fried. ‚Äî Procure  lYs  pound  nicely  trimmed 
lamb  chops.  Place  a  frying  pan,  without  any  fat,  over  the  fire, 
when  hot  put  in  as  many  chops  as  will  conveniently  lie  in  the  pan, 
fry  8  minutes,  turning  3  times  ;  when  firm  to  the  touch,  and  offer- 
ing a  slight  resistance,  they  are  done  (great  care  must  be  taken  not 
to  overcook  them).  When  they  are  thus  all  fried,  arrange  them 
nicely  on  a  warm  dish;  mix  1  ounce  butter  with  Yg  tablespoonful 
seasoning  salt,  spread  this  over  the  chops  equally  divided.  Arrange 
the  chops  in  a  straight  row  in  center  of  the  dish,  having  the  bone 
underneath ;  garnish  the  sides  with  fried  tomatoes ;  serve  with 
baked  potatoes  and  young  corn  boiled  on  the  cob. 

Lamb  Chops,  Broiled. ‚Äî Take  lYs  pound  lamb  chops  nicely 
trimmed  and  prepared ;  brush  over  with  melted  butter,  lay  on  a  hot 
broiler,  and  broil  8  minutes,  turning  frequently.  When  done 
arrange  on  a  hot  dish,  mix  1  ounce  butter  with  Ys  tablespoonful 
seasoning  salt,  spread  it  over  the  cho^js,  and  garnish  with  French 
fried  potatoes. 

Epigrams  of  Lamb. ‚Äî Place  2  ounces  fine-cut  fat  pork  in  a 
saucepan,  add  1  carrot  and  2  sliced  onions ;  on  top  of  this  place  the 
breast  of  a  lamb,  add  a  bouquet,  Ys  tablespoonful  salt,  and  12  whole 


312  MEATS. 

peppers ;  cover  with  boiling  water,  put  on  the  lid,  and  boil  slowly 
till  the  bones  can  easily  be  removed  ;  then  take  them  out,  lay  the 
breast  on  a  hot  dish,  put  over  a  board  or  flat  dish,  set  a  weight  on 
top  till  cold.  Strain  the  broth,  remove  all  the  fat,  and  reduce  it  by 
boiling  to  a  half  glaze.  When  the  breasts  are  cold  cut  them  into 
half -heart-shaped  pieces ;  trim  nicely,  and  insert  a  small  bone  into 
each  pointed  end ;  lay  into  a  pan,  pour  over  the  reduced  broth,  and 
place  for  10  minutes  in  the  oven,  basting  frequently.  At  the  same 
time  fry  as  many  French  lamb  chops  as  there  are  chops  of  the 
breast ;  arrange  them  on  a  hot  dish  alternately  in  2  rows,  and  place 
a  garnish  on  each  side  of  it,  prepared  as  follows  :  Boil  1  quart  small 
string  beans  in  salted  water ;  when  done,  drain  and  place  them  in  a 
saucepan  with  2  ounces  butter,  cook  10  minutes.  At  the  same 
time  scald  4  medium-sized  tomatoes  in  boiling  water,  remove  the 
skin,  cut  each  tomato  in  half,  press  out  the  moisture.  Place  the 
tomatoes  in  a  pan,  season  with  1  teaspoonful  seasoning  salt,  and 
pour  1  ounce  melted  butter  over ;  set  the  pan  for  10  minutes  in  a 
hot  oven.  Arrange  the  beans  in  clusters  on  each  side  of  the  epi- 
grams, and  lay  between  each  cluster  a  piece  of  tomato,  then  serve. 
In  place  of  this  garnish  any  other  garnish  may  be  used. 

Epigram  of  Lamb  a  la  Tilleroi. ‚Äî Place  1  breast  of  lamb 
in  a  saucepan,  cover  with  boiling  water ;  add  a  bouquet,  2  onions,  1 
small  carrot,  V2  tablespoonful  salt,  and  1  teaspoonful  coarsely  pound- 
ed pepper,  boil  until  tender ;  then  take  it  out,  remove  the  bones, 
place  the  breast  on  a  dish  under  a  weight,  and  set  aside.  When 
cold,  cut  the  meat  into  8  pieces  half-heart  shape,  stick  a  small  bone 
in  the  narrow  end,  then  season  with  pepper  and  salt,  cover  entirely 
with  a  thick  sauce  a  I'allemande,  and  set  aside  till  cold  ;  then  dip  each 
chop  into  beaten  egg,  cover  with  bread  crumbs,  and  fry  to  a  delicate 
brown  in  half  lard,  half  butter.  Fry,  and  season  with  pepper  and  salt, 
8  French  chops  to  a  fine  color ;  arrange  them  in  a  circle  on  a  hot 
dish  alternately  with  the  breast,  decorate  the  handles  with  paper 
frills,  and  pour  in  the  center  a  mushroom  salpicon. 


MEATS.  313 


MUTTON. 


Boiled  Mutton. ‚Äî Select  a  nice  ]eg  of  mutton,  wipe  it  off  with 
a  damp  towel,  place  it  in  a  large  kettle,  cover  with  boiling  water, 
add  1  tablespoonfal  salt,  3  large  onions,  1  carrot,  1  white  turnip,  13 
whole  peppercorns,  and  a  large  bouquet ;  cover  and  boil  slowly  from 
273  to  3  hours.  When  done,  lay  the  mutton  on  a  warm  dish,  and  serve 
with  caper  sauce,  boiled  potatoes,  and  any  kind  of  vegetables  that 
may  be  desired.     The  broth  can  be  used  for  soup. 

Mutton  a  la  Allemande.‚Äî Procure  a  leg  of  young  mutton, 
wipe  it  off  with  a  damp  towel,  season  with  1  tablespoonful  season- 
ing salt,  rubbing  the  seasoning  well  into  the  meat.  Fry  4  ounces 
larding  pork  in  a  saucepan  till  crisp,  add  2  ounces  butter ;  as  soon 
as  the  butter  is  melted  put  in  the  mutton,  turn  frequently,  and 
cook  till  light  brown  all  over;  add  Yg  pint  boiling  water,  cover, 
and  cook  20  minutes ;  then  add  1  pint  of  sour  cream,  cook  slowly 
from  2Y3  to  3  hours,  turning  the  meat  now  and  then  (when  the 
gravy  boils  away  add  more  water  and  cream,  but  not  too  much  at 
a  time).  Shortly  before  serving  add  Yg  cupful  fine-chopped  onions, 
cook  15  minutes  longer.  Transfer  the  meat  to  a  hot  dish,  remove 
every  particle  of  fat  from  the  gravy,  mix  1  tablespoonful  flour  with 
1  gill  of  cold  water,  add  it  to  the  gravy,  cook  for  a  few  minutes ; 
add  suflBcient  boiling  water  to  make  a  creamy  sauce,  boil  3  minutes ; 
then  strain,  pour  a  few  spoonfuls  over  the  meat,  and  serve  the  re- 
mainder in  a  sauce  bowl.  Serve  with  Eussian  turnips  a  la  cr^me 
and  mashed  or  boiled  potatoes. 

Leg  of  Mutton  a  la  Westphalia. ‚Äî Procure  a  nice  leg  of 
mutton  at  least  10  days  old,  remove  the  skin  and  fat,  lard  it  closely 
with  fine  strips  of  larding  pork,  season  with  1  tablespoonful  seasoning 
salt.  Make  6  deep  incisions  in  the  meat  2  inches  apart,  cut  1  large 
white  onion  lengthwise  into  6  pieces,  put  a  piece  of  onion  into  each 
incision,  press  them  down  so  that  they  can  not  be  seen  on  top  the 
meat.     Lay  the  mutton  in  a  roasting  pan,  baste  it  well  with  2 


314:  MEATS. 

ounces  melted  butter,  set  in  a  hot  oven,- baste  frequently,  and  roast 
till  the  gravy  begins  to  brown  on  bottom  of  pan ;  add  Vg  pint  of 
veal  broth  or  boiling  water,  roasting  20  minutes  longer  ;  then  add  1 
pint  of  sour  cream,  continue  the  roasting  and  basting  till  done, 
which  will  take  from  V-/^  to  2  hours.  When  ready  to  serve,  lay 
the  meat  on  a  hot  dish ;  strain  the  gravy,  remove  every  particle  of 
fat,  mix  Ys  tablespoonful  cornstarch  with  Yg  gill  of  cold  water,  add 
it  to  the  gravy,  cook  for  a  few  minutes  on  top  the  stove  (if  too 
thick  dilute  it  with  broth  or  water,  and  if  not  brown  enough  add  a 
little  sugar  color).  Serve  with  any  kind  of  cooked  vegetables  in  sea- 
son ;  or  serve  with  Hanovarian  pudding,  stewed  prunes,  and  small 
boiled  potatoes. 

Leg  of  Mutton  a  I'Americaine. ‚Äî Procure  a  fine  leg  of 
mutton  from  a  first-class  butcher  to  make  this  excellent  dish  to 
perfection.  Select  meat  which  is  at  least  1  week  old  in  summer,  or 
a  week  and  over  in  winter.  Wipe  the  meat  off  with  a  damp  towel, 
season  it  with  1  even  tablespoonful  seasoning  salt,  spread  1  ounce 
butter  over  the  top.  Place  the  mutton  in  a  roasting  pan,  set  it  in  a 
hot  oven,  roast  until  it  has  obtained  a  light  brown  color,  basting 
frequently  ;  then  add  1  cupful  boiling  water,  continue  to  roast  and 
baste  till  done.  (It  will  take  for  a  leg  of  8  pounds  2Y2  hours.  The 
mutton  should  be  done,  but  still  a  little  rare  toward  the  bone.  Some 
like  it  very  rare ;  in  that  case  1  hour  would  be  sufficient.)  When 
ready  to  serve,  lay  the  meat  on  a  hot  dish ;  remove  the  fat  from 
gravy,  mix  1  tablespoonful  cornstarch  with  1  gill  of  cold  water,  add 
it  to  the  gravy,  stir  and  cook  a  few  minutes  ;  add  sufficient  boiling 
water  or  broth  to  make  1  pint  of  sauce,  cook  a  few  minutes.  Strain, 
add  Y2  tablespoonful  butter  (if  water  has  been  used  in  place  of 
broth,  add  Y3  teaspoonful  beef  extract),  then  serve.  Some  prefer  to 
have  the  gravy  not  thickened,  then  simply  remove  the  fat,  add  a 
little  boiling  water  to  the  gravy,  strain,  and  serve  with  the  meat. 
Serve  mashed  or  boiled  potatoes  and  string  beans  a  la  creme  with 
this,  or  any  vegetables  in  season.     The  mutton  may  be  garnished 


MEATS.  315 

with  stuffed  tomatoes  or  boiled  sweet  potatoes  freed  from  their 
skins,  and  fried  brown  in  butter. 

Saddle  of  Mutton  a  rAllemande.‚Äî Procure  a  well-seasoned 
saddle  of  mutton,  remove  the  bones  and  superfluous  fat,  season  the 
inside  with  1  tablespoonful  seasoning  salt,  roll  it  up  and  secure  its 
shape  with  several  rows  of  strings  tied  around  it ;  rub  1  tablespoon- 
ful seasoning  salt  all  over  the  meat,  place  it  in  a  roasting  pan, 
spread  2  ounces  butter  over  the  top.  Set  the  pan  in  a  hot  oven, 
roast  until  the  meat  has  obtained  a  fine  brown,  basting  it  frequently 
with  its  own  gravy ;  add  1  cup  of  boiling  water,  2  whole  onions,  a 
few  pieces  of  carrot,  roast  and  baste  20  minutes ;  then  add  1  pint 
sour  cream,  roast  and  baste  often  until  the  meat  is  done.  Shortly 
before  serving  take  the  saddle  from  oven,  take  off  the  strings,  lay  it 
on  a  warm  dish ;  remove  all  fat  from  gravy,  mix  Yg  tablespoonful 
cornstarch  with  '/g  gill  of  cold  water,  add  it  to  the  gravy,  set  the 
pan  on  top  of  stove,  stir  and  cook  3  minutes  (if  too  thick  dilute  it 
with  boiling  water  or  broth ;  there  should  be  1  pint  of  sauce).  Strain, 
pour  a  little  of  the  sauce  over  the  meat,  serve  the  remainder  in  a  sauce 
bowl.     Serve  with  boiled  potatoes  and  red  cabbage  a  Talleraande. 

Saddle  of  Mutton  a  la  Milanaise.‚Äî Select  a  fine  saddle  of 
mutton  (about  7  pounds  in  weight),  remove  the  upper  skin,  tie  it 
with  several  rows  of  strings  to  secure  its  shape,  season  with  1  table- 
spoonful salt.  Lay  the  meat  in  a  roasting  pan,  pour  Yg  cupful 
water  in  the  bottom  of  pan,  set  in  a  hot  oven,  roast  and  baste  fre- 
quently till  done,  which  will  take  1  hour  (or  allow  10  minutes  for 
each  pound ;  mutton  roasted  in  this  way  should  be  rare,  the  same 
as  roast  beef).  When  done,  dress  the  meat  on  a  hot  dish  ;  remove 
all  fat  from  gravy,  dilute  with  1  gill  of  boiling  water,  strain,  and 
serve  with  the  meat.  Garnish  with  tomatoes  a  la  Milanaise.  In 
place  of  tomatoes  it  may  be  garnished  with  teutonia  potatoes.  It  is 
then  called  h  la  Teutonia. 

Saddle  of  Mutton  a  la  Madeira. ‚Äî Prepare  a  saddle  of  mutton 
as  in  foregoing  recipes,  and  serve  with  Madeira  sauce.     Saddle  of 
21 


316  MEATS. 

mutton  may  be  served  with  currant  jelly,  Colbert,  or  truffle  sauce; 
it  is  then  named  either  after  the  sauce  or  garnish. 

Roast  Mutton  prepared  like  Yenison.‚Äî Boil  1  pint  vinegar 
and  1  pint  water  with  2  onions,  6  cloves,  1  dozen  peppers,  2  blades 
of  mace,  and  2  bay  leaves  15  minutes.  Strain,  and  when  cold  pour 
it  over  a  leg  of  mutton,  let  it  lie  for  4  or  5  days,  turning  it  each 
day  once.  When  ready  to  dress  take  out  and  lard  the  meat  with 
fine  strips  of  larding  pork,  season  with  salt  and  pepper,  put  it  in  a 
pan,  pour  over  2  ounces  melted  butter.  Place  the  pan  in  a  hot 
oven,  roast  and  baste  first  with  the  butter,  then  add  by  degrees  1  cup 
of  boiling  water  and  1  of  sour  cream,  let  the  meat  roast  until  done, 
which  will  take  2Y3  hours.  When  ready  to  serve  remove  it  to  a 
hot  dish  ;  skim  and  thicken  the  gravy  with  a  little  cornstarch ; 
strain  and  serve  with  the  meat.  If  the  gravy  should  not  be  dark 
enough,  add  a  few  drops  of  sugar  color,  send  currant  jelly  to  table 
with  it.     A  saddle  of  mutton  may  be  dressed  in  the  same  way. 

Leg  of  Mutton  Mariniere. ‚Äî Remove  the  skin  and  super- 
fluous fat  from  a  well-seasoned  leg  of  mutton,  lard  it  closely  with 
fine  strips  of  larding  pork,  season  with  1  tablespoonful  seasoning 
salt.  Lay  the  mutton  in  a  bowl  or  stone  jar,  pour  over  the  marinade 
mentioned  below,  cover  and  let  it  stand  3  days,  turning  it  once  each 
day.  For  marinade,  place  a  saucepan  with  1  cupful  fine-chopped 
onions  over  the  fire,  add  2  ounces  beef  drippings,  V2  cupful  fine-cut 
carrots,  1  sprig  of  cut  celery,  stir  and  cook  10  minutes,  then  add  1 
quart  white  vinegar,  1  pint  of  water,  6  cloves,  1  bay  leaf,  1  table- 
spoonful  coarsely  pounded  black  pepper,  the  same  of  allspice,  1 
blade  of  mace,  Yg  bunch  of  parsley,  and  cook  40  minutes;  then 
strain  through  a  fine  sieve,  and  when  cold  pour  it  over  the  meat. 
When  the  leg  of  mutton  is  to  be  cooked,  take  it  from  the  marinade 
and  wipe  it  dry.  Cover  the  bottom  of  a  double  pan  or  wide  sauce- 
pan with  4  ounces  fine-cut  larding  pork,  2  sliced  onions,  1  sliced 
carrot,  and  a  bouquet ;  lay  the  meat  on  top  of  this,  pour  the  mari- 
nade over  all,  cover  the  meat  with  buttered  paper,  put  over  the  lid, 


MEATS.  31Y 

place  over  the  fire,  and  cook  slowly  2Y2  to  3  hours.  Take  out  the 
meat,  lay  it  in  a  baking  pan,  strain  the  broth,  remove  all  fat,  pour 
the  broth  over  the  meat ;  add  Y2  cupful  currant  or  apple  jelly, 
place  the  pan  in  a  hot  oven,  baste  frequently  and  roast  30  minutes ; 
then  lay  the  meat  on  a  hot  dish.  Melt  1  ounce  butter  in  a  saucepan, 
add  1  tablespoonf ul  flour,  cook  2  minutes ;  add  the  gravy  from  the 
pan  (if  too  thick,  add  sufficient  boiling  water  to  make  1  pint  of 
sauce),  boil  three  minutes;  add  Y2  ounce  butter,  and,  if  handy,  Yg 
teaspoonful  beef  extract  and  1  tablespoonful  currant  jelly.  Pour  1 
gill  of  sauce  over  the  meat,  and  the  remainder  in  a  sauce  bowl. 
Serve  with  potato  dumplings  and  stewed  prunes. 

Braised  Leg  of  Mutton. ‚Äî Remove  the  skin  and  superfluous 
fat  from  a  leg  of  mutton ;  lard  it  closely  with  fine  strips  of  larding 
pork,  season  with  1  tablespoonful  seasoning  salt,  rubbing  the  sea- 
soning well  into  the  meat ;  cover  the  bottom  of  a  double  roasting 
pan,  or  one  which  has  a  well-fitting  cover,  add  2  onions,  1  carrot,  1 
branch  of  celery,  Ys  white  turnip,  2  ounces  larding  pork,  2  ounces 
raw  ham,  place  the  meat  on  top  of  this ;  add  2  quarts  of  stock  or 
boiling  water,  cover  the  meat  first  with  buttered  paper,  then  put  on 
the  lid ;  set  the  pan  in  a  medium-hot  oven,  or  on  top  the  stove,  and 
cook  from  2  to  3  hours.  When  the  meat  is  done  transfer  it  to  a 
roasting  pan,  remove  the  fat  from  broth,  then  strain  the  broth  over 
the  meat ;  set  in  a  hot  oven,  baste  frequently  until  the  meat  has  ob- 
tained a  fine  glaze,  then  lay  it  on  a  warm  dish.  Dilute  the  gravy  in 
pan  with  a  little  boiling  water,  scrape  off  the  brown  part  from  the 
sides  and  bottom  of  pan  and  mix  it  with  the  gravy.  Melt  1  ounce 
butter  in  a  saucepan,  add  1  tablespoonful  flour,  stir  a  few  minutes ; 
add  the  gravy  from  the  meat  (if  too  thick  add  sufficient  boiling 
water  to  make  1  pint  of  sauce),  cook  5  minutes,  then  strain,  pour  Y2 
gill  of  sauce  over  the  meat  and  pour  the  remainder  in  a  sauce  bowl. 
Braised  mutton  may  be  garnished  with  cabbage  rolls  or  cauliflower ; 
it  may  also  be  served  with  spinach,  creamed  carrot,  creamed  chicory, 
string  beans,  or  creamed  turnips. 


318  MEATS. 

Braised  Mutton  a  la  Proven^ale. ‚Äî Remove  the  bone  from  a 
nice  leg  of  mutton,  fill  it  with  sausage  forcemeat,  and  sew  it  up ; 
remove  the  skin  on  top,  and  lard  it  with  fine  strips  of  larding  pork ; 
season  with  1  tablespoonf ul  salt,  1  teaspoonful  pepper,  rub  the  sea- 
soning well  into  the  meat.  Put  4  ounces  lean  raw  ham  in  a  double 
baking  pan  or  a  saucepan  with  a  tight-fitting  cover ;  add  2  onions, 
1  carrot,  2  cloves  of  garlic,  12  whole  peppers,  and  a  bouquet,  put 
the  meat  on  top  of  this ;  pour  1  gill  of  brandy  over  it,  add  3  pints 
of  stock  or  broth  ;  cover  the  meat  with  buttered  paper,  put  on  the 
cover,  set  it  in  a  medium-hot  oven  or  on  top  the  stove,  and  cook 
from  3  to  SYg  hours.  When  the  meat  is  done  remove  it  to  a  roast- 
ing pan ;  strain  the  broth,  remove  all  the  fat,  and  pour  the  broth 
over  the  meat ;  return  to  the  oven,  roast  and  baste  till  it  has  obtained 
a  nice  glaze ;  then  lay  the  meat  on  a  warm  dish ;  garnish  with  baked 
tomatoes  and  boiled  white  onions.  Melt  1  tablespoonf  ul  butter  in 
a  saucepan,  add  1  tablespoonf  ul  flour,  stir  and  cook  2  minutes ;  add 
the  gravy  from  the  meat  (if  too  thick  add  sufficient  boiling  water  to 
make  a  creamy  sauce)  ;  strain  and  serve  with  the  meat. 

Saddle  of  Mutton,  Braised  a  la  Fran^aise.‚Äî Procure  a  fat 

saddle  of  mutton,  remove  the  spine  bone  without  injuring  the  fillets ; 
cut  the  flaps  square ;  then  season  the  saddle  inside  with  one  even  table- 
spoonful  salt,  1  even  teaspoonful  pepper,  roll  it  up,  pass  some  strings 
several  times  around  it  and  tie  firmly  ;  rub  1  even  tablespoonf  ul  salt 
and  1  even  teaspoonful  pepper  all  over  the  meat ;  cover  the  bottom  of 
a  double  roasting  pan  with  2  onions,  1  carrot,  a  bouquet,  2  cloves  of 
garlic ;  lay  the  meat  on  top  of  this,  add  sufficient  broth  or  stock  to 
nearly  cover  the  meat ;  cover  first  with  buttered  paper,  then  put  on 
the  cover ;  set  the  pan  over  the  fire,  cook  slowly  from  3  to  4  hours. 
When  the  meat  is  done,  lay  it  in  a  baking  pan ;  strain  the  broth,  re- 
move all  the  fat,  then  reduce  it  by  boiling  to  1  quart ;  pour  this  over 
the  meat,  set  the  pan  in  a  hot  oven,  and  roast  till  the  meat  has  ob- 
tained a  nice  color ;  then  lay  it  on  a  warm  dish  ;  garnish  with  stuffed 
onions.     Melt  1  tablespoonful  butter  in  a  saucepan,  add  1  table- 


MEATS.  319 

spoonful  flour,  stir  a  few  minutes,  add  the  gravy  from  the  meat, 
cook  5  minutes ;  mix  the  yolks  of  2  eggs  with  Ys  cupful  cream,  add 
it  to  the  sauce ;  remove  from  the  fire,  add  the  juice  of  Yg  lemon 
and  a  little  nutmeg  (if  the  gravy  should  be  too  thick  dilute  it  with 
cream). 

Neck  of  Mutton,,  Braised. ‚Äî Trim  nicely  2  necks  of  mutton, 
put  them  in  a  saucepan,  cover  with  3  pints  of  broth  or  stock  ;  add 
2  onions,  Ya  carrot,  a  small  bouquet ;  add  Ys  pound  salt  pork,  6 
whole  peppers,  cover,  and  cook  slowly  from  IY2  to  2  hours  till  done. 
As  soon  as  done  lay  the  necks  in  a  roasting  pan ;  strain  the  broth, 
remove  all  the  fat,  and  reduce  it  by  boiling  to  IY2  pir^t ;  pour  this 
over  the  necks,  roast,  and  baste  till  they  have  obtained  a  fine  color ; 
then  dress  on  a  warm  dish,  pour  part  of  the  gravy  over,  and  garnish 
with  groups  (1  pint  each)  of  potatoes,  carrots,  and  turnip  balls 
boiled  in  water  and  sauted  in  butter ;  or  any  other  kind  of  vegetables 
may  be  served  with  it.  Cut  the  salt  pork  in  thin  slices  and  lay  it 
between  the  groups  of  vegetables. 

Shoulder  of  Mutton,  Potted. ‚Äî Eemove  the  bones  from  a 
shoulder  of  mutton  and  fill  it  either  with  sausage  or  veal  forcemeat, 
or  with  bread  and  potato  filling  (see  Foecemeat),  sew  up,  and  tie 
firmly  with  a  string ;  season  with  1  tablespoonf  ul  seasoning  salt. 
Place  a  saucepan  large  enough  to  hold  the  shoulder  over  the  fire 
with  2  ounces  fine-cut  larding  pork ;  fry  light  brown ;  put  in  the 
meat,  turn  frequently,  and  cook  till  the  meat  has  obtained  a  light- 
brown  color ;  then  add  1  cupful  of  broth  or  boiling  water,  a  small 
clove  of  garlic,  1  onion,  Y2  carrot,  and  a  small  bouquet ;  cover  and 
cook  slowly  from  2Y2  to  3  hours  (adding  more  water  if  it  boils 
away).  When  done  take  the  shoulder  from  saucepan,  lay  it  on  a 
hot  dish,  remove  all  the  fat  from  the  gravy ;  mix  1  tablespoonful 
cornstarch  with  1  gill  of  cold  water,  add  it  to  the  gravy,  stir,  and 
cook  a  few  minutes  on  top  the  stove  ;  add  enough  boiling  water  or 
broth  to  make  1  pint  of  sauce,  boil  3  minutes  ;  strain,  pour  1  gill  of 
sauce   over  the  meat,  and  serve  the  remainder  in  a  sauce  bowl. 


320  MEATS. 

Serve  with  stewed  tomatoes  and  mashed  potatoes  or  any  kind  of 
vegetables  in  season. 

Shoulder  of  Mutton  boiled  with  Cabbage.‚Äî Place  a  well- 
prepared  shoulder  of  mutton  in  a  saucepan,  cover  with  boiling  water, 
cook  5  minutes,  then  remove,  and  plunge  it  instantly  into  cold 
water ;  return  the  shoulder  to  saucepan,  cover  with  fresh  boiling 
water,  add  Yg  even  tablespoonful  pepper,  1  tablespoonful  salt,  3 
onions,  1  carrot,  1  white  turnip,  a  bouquet,  and  13  peppercorns. 
Place  the  saucepan  over  the  fire  and  cook  slowly  3  hours.  Cut  a 
medium-sized  cabbage  into  quarters,  place  it  in  a  saucepan,  cover 
with  boiling  water,  add  1  tablespoonful  sugar,  cover,  and  boil  1 
hour ;  then  drain  the  cabbage  on  a  sieve,  return  it  to  the  sauce- 
pan, add  lYa  pint  of  the  mutton  broth,  cover,  and  cook  about  30 
minutes,  till  tender.  When  ready  to  serve  lift  the  meat  from  the 
broth,  lay  it  on  a  warm  dish ;  drain  the  cabbage  and  serve  it  with 
the  meat  and  boiled  potatoes.  Tomatoes  cut  into  slices,  dressed 
with  vinegar,  a  little  sugar,  salt,  and  pepper  may  be  served  with 
this  ;  also  beet  or  cucumber  salad.  For  salad  see  my  book  Desserts 
and  Salads,  recipes  860,  863. 

Breast  of  Mutton,  Boiled. ‚Äî Cooked  the  same  as  shoulder  of 
mutton. 

Mutton  Chops  a  la  Mariniere. ‚Äî Prepare  6  mutton  chops  the 
same  as  for  broiling,  season  with  1  even  tablespoonful  seasoning  salt, 
place  them  in  a  covered  dish  with  2  onions  cut  into  slices,  1  sprig 
of  thyme,  2  tablespoonfuls  olive  oil,  Vg  bunch  of  parsley,  cover 
the  dish,  and  set  in  a  cool  place  for  2  hours.  Fifteen  minutes  be- 
fore serving  place  a  broiler  over  a  clear  fire,  remove  the  chops,  lay 
them  on  the  hot  broiler,  and  broil  about  10  minutes,  turning  fre- 
quently ;  when  firm  to  the  touch  and  offering  a  slight  resistance,  lay 
them  on  a  hot  dish,  spread  2  ounces  maitre  d'hotel  butter  over,  gar- 
nish with  fried  or  broiled  tomatoes  and  serve  with  baked  potatoes. 

Mutton  Cutlets  a  la  Marquise. ‚Äî Procure  6  mutton  chops  1 
inch  thick  and  5  inches  long,  remove  the  meat  1  inch  deep  from 


MEATS.  321 

the  end  bone,  cut  off  the  outside  skin  which  covers  the  fat,  pound 
the  chops  lightly,  and  flatten  to  Y4  inch  ;  season  with  1  even  table- 
spoonful  seasoning  salt.  Melt  2  ounces  butter  in  a  pan,  add  the 
chops,  cook  2  minutes  on  each  side ;  then  remove,  lay  on  a  dish, 
put  over  a  light  press.  When  cold  dip  each  in  Villeroi  sauce  in 
which  Ya  cupful  of  fine-chopped  mushrooms  have  been  mixed ; 
let  stand  till  cold.  Thirty  minutes  before  serving  besprinkle  the 
cutlets  with  bread  crumbs,  dip  in  beaten  egg,  then  in  bread  crumbs, 
pat  nice  and  smooth  with  a  knife.  Melt  2  ounces  of  butter  in  a 
baking  pan,  put  in  the  chops,  and  bake  in  a  moderate  oven  light 
brown  on  both  sides.  Arrange  on  a  warm  dish,  garnish  with  stewed 
mushrooms,  and  the  bone  with  paper  frills.  Serve  with  tomato 
sauce. 

Nurnberger  Cutlet. ‚Äî Take  a  3-pound  piece  of  mutton  from 
the  rack,  remove  the  bones,  and  cut  the  meat  into  6  chops  ;  cut  off 
a  piece  from  the  rind  so  that  the  chops  are  about  8  inches  long,  re- 
move part  of  the  fat,  roll  them  into  round  shapes,  beginning  at  the 
thick  end,  securing  their  shape  with  a  toothpick,  pound  them  lightly 
to  flatten.  Place  a  frying  pan  over  the  fire,  let  it  get  hot,  then  put 
in  the  chops,  and  fry  8  minutes,  turning  them  3  times.  When 
firm  to  the  touch,  offering  a  slight  resistance,  they  are  done.  Dress 
them  on  a  warm  dish ;  mix  1  ounce  butter  with  Yg  even  table- 
spoonful  seasoning  salt,  spread  this  over  the  chops.  Put  1  fine- 
chopped  onion  in  the  mutton  fat,  fry  5  minutes  without  browning ; 
add  Ys  tablespoonf ul  flour,  stir  a  few  minutes  ;  add  1  cup  of  boiling 
water,  Ys  teaspoonful  beef  extract,  Y2  even  teaspoonful  salt,  Y4  tea- 
spoonful  pepper,  cook  3  minutes  ;  then  strain,  add  1  tablespoonf  ul 
lemon  juice,  a  sprinkle  of  sugar,  mix,  and  pour  in  a  sauce  bowl. 
Pour  a  little  sauce  over  each  chop,  garnish  with  1  pint  stewed  green 
peas,  1  pint  boiled  carrot  balls,  and  1  pint  of  small  cooked  potato 
balls. 

Mutton  Chops,  Breaded  and  Broiled.‚Äî Procure  G  nicely 
trimmed  mutton  chops  from  the  rack,  season  with  1  even  table- 


322  MEATS. 

spoonful  seasoning  salt,  brush  each  over  with  melted  butter,  and  roll 
in  fresh  grated  bread  crumbs.  Lay  the  chops  on  a  hot  broiler,  and 
broil  10  minutes,  or  until  firm  to  the  touch,  offering  a  slight  resist- 
ance. Arrange  the  chops  on  a  warm  dish  in  a  straight  row,  pour  a 
little  of  the  sauce  mentioned  below  over  each,  and  lay  Yo  pint  pota- 
toes a  la  Minden  on  each  side  of  the  chops.  For  sauce :  Fry  1 
tablespoonful  fine-chopped  onion  in  1  ounce  butter  6  minutes ;  add 
Y2  tablespoonful  flour,  stir  and  cook  3  minutes ;  add  1  cup  of  boil- 
ing water,  1  teaspoonful  beef  extract,  Y2  even  teaspoonful  salt,  % 
teaspoonful  pepper,  cook  5  minutes,  then  strain ;  add  1  tablespoon- 
ful lemon  juice,  pour  a  little  of  the  sauce  over  each  chop,  and  serve 
the  remainder  in  a  sauce  bowl. 

Mutton  Chops  a  la  Maitre  d'Hotel. ‚Äî Prepare  and  broil  6 
chops  as  in  foregoing  recipe,  and  spread  1  ounce  maitre  d'hotel 
butter  over,  in  place  of  the  sauce. 

Mutton  Chops,  Broiled. ‚Äî Procure  6  mutton  chops  iVg  inch 
in  thickness,  remove  the  skin  which  covers  the  fat,  shorten  the  rib 
bones ;  make  a  handle  to  the  cutlets  by  removing  the  fat  from  the 
bone.  When  all  are  prepared  in  this  way,  pound  lightly  to  flatten 
down  to  1  inch  ;  brush  the  chops  over  with  melted  butter,  lay  on  a 
hot  broiler,  and  broil  10  minutes,  turning  frequently.  Dress  them 
on  a  warm  dish ;  spread  V2  teaspoonful  seasoning  butter  over  each 
chop,  and  serve  with  French  fried  potatoes,  German  puffs,  or  hot 
muffins. 

Mutton  Chops,  Fried.‚Äî To  have  mutton  chops  fried  to  per- 
fection the  cooking  should  be  done  in  such  a  way  that  they  retain 
all  their  juices ;  they  should  not  be  overcooked  nor  underdone. 
Place  a  frying  pan  over  the  fire,  when  hot  put  in  as  many  chops  as 
will  conveniently  go  in,  fry  about  8  minutes,  turning  3  times  ;  the 
chops  should  be  just  a  little  rare  inside ;  if  cooked  too  long  they 
will  be  dry  and  tasteless,  and  if  not  cooked  enough,  too  rare.  An 
experienced  cook  can  tell  by  touching  them  with  a  finger ;  if  firm 
to  the  touch  and  offering  a  slight  resistance,  they  are  done,  and 


MEATS.  323 

should  be  instantly  removed.  Arrange  the  cooked  chops  on  a  warm 
dish.  Spread  Y4  teaspoonful  seasoning  butter  over  each  chop,  and 
serve  with  baked  potatoes  and  hot  biscuits  or  corn  muffins. 

Devilled  Kidneys. ‚Äî Split  6  lamb  kidneys,  remove  the  white 
part  in  center,  and  chop  the  kidneys  fine ;  place  a  saucepan  with  1 
ounce  butter  over  the  fire,  add  2  tablespoonfuls  fine-chopped  onions, 
Ys  bruised  clove  of  garlic,  cook  3  minutes;  add  Y2  cupful  fine- 
chopped  mushrooms,  cook  3  minutes ;  add  the  kidneys  and  1  tea- 
spoonful  seasoning  salt,  stir  and  cook  3  minutes ;  then  add  1  gill  of 
sherry  wine,  1  gill  of  boiling  water  with  Ys  teaspoonful  beef  extract 
or  broth,  cook  3  minutes  longer.  Eemove  from  fire,  add  the  yolks 
of  3  eggs,  1  teaspoonful  fine-chopped  parsley,  and  a  little  Cayenne 
pepper.  Fill  this  mixture  into  6  table  shells,  sprinkle  over  each 
Ys  tablespoonful  fresh  grated  bread  crumbs  and  a  little  melted 
butter.  Place  the  shells  in  a  shallow  tin  pan,  set  the  pan  in  a  hot 
oven,  and  bake  light  brown.  When  ready  to  serve,  arrange  the 
shells  on  a  dish  with  folded  napkin,  and  serve. 

Mutton  Kidney  Saute. ‚Äî Split  6  mutton  kidneys  in  halves, 
remove  the  fatty  part  from  the  center,  cut  the  kidneys  into  slices. 
Melt  1  ounce  butter  in  a  low  saucepan,  season  the  kidneys  with  1 
teaspoonful  seasoning  salt,  add  them  to  the  butter,  cook  and  stir  3 
minutes ;  add  1  gill  of  sherry  wine,  cook  5  minutes ;  sprinkle  over 
Y2  teaspoonful  flour,  stir  for  a  few  minutes  ;  add  1  gill  of  boiling 
water  with  Ys  teaspoonful  beef  extract,  add  1  tablespoonful  lemon 
juice,  toss  for  a  few  minutes  over  the  fire,  and  serve  with  croutons. 

Mutton  Kidney  with  Fines  Herbes. ‚Äî Prepare  6  mutton 
kidneys  as  in  above  recipe ;  season  with  1  teaspoonful  salt  and  Y4 
teaspoonful  pepper.  Melt  1  ounce  butter  in  a  saucepan,  add  1 
tablespoonful  fine-chopped  onion  and  2  tablespoonfuls  fine-chopped 
mushrooms,  cook  5  minutes;  then  add  the  kidneys,  cook  a  few 
minutes;  add  Ys  gill  of  sherry  wine  and  1  tablespoonful  lemon 
juice,  cook  5  minutes.  Mix  the  yolks  of  2  eggs  Avitli  Ys  cup  of 
cream,  add  it  to  the  kidneys,  toss  for  a  few  minutes  over  the  fire. 


324  MEATS. 

Serve  them  on  a  warm  disli  with  a  border  of  fleurons.    For  Fleurons, 
see  my  book  Desserts  and  Salads,  recipe  721. 

Mutton  Kidneys  on  Skewers. ‚Äî Split  6  mutton  kidneys,  not 
separating  the  parts,  remove  the  skin,  season  with  1  teaspoonful 
salt,  Y4  teaspoonful  pepper,  dip  in  melted  butter  or  fine  olive  oil. 
Take  3  skewers ;  run  a  skewer  through  the  thickest  part  of  2  kid- 
neys, treat  the  remaining  4  the  same  way.  Lay  them  on  a  hot 
broiler,  with  the  open  side  toward  the  fire,  boil  10  minutes,  turning 
several  times.  When  done,  arrange  the  kidneys  on  a  hot  dish,  alter- 
nately with  6  slices  of  broiled  bacon,  spread  2  ounces  of  maitre 
d'hotel  butter  over,  and  serve. 

Mutton  Kidney  a  la  Mayence. ‚Äî Split  6  mutton  kidneys  in 
halves,  remove  the  white  center,  cut  the  kidneys  into  slices,  season 
with  1  even  tablespoonful  seasoning  salt.  Melt  1  ounce  butter  in  a 
saucepan,  add  1  tablespoonful  fine-chopped  onion,  Yg  clove  of 
bruised  garlic,  stir  and  cook  5  minutes ;  then  add  the  kidneys,  cook 
5  minutes ;  add  1  gill  of  red  wine,  continue  to  cook  3  minutes 
more.  Melt  Yg  ounce  butter  in  a  small  saucepan,  add  Y2  teaspoonful 
flour,  stir  and  cook  2  minutes ;  add  Y2  cupful  boiling  water,  Ys  tea- 
spoonful beef  extract,  stir  and  cook  2  minutes  ;  season  with  a  pinch 
of  salt  and  pepper,  add  the  sauce  to  the  kidneys,  toss  for  a  few  min- 
utes over  the  fire,  and  serve. 

Kidney  Saute  with  Madeira  Sauce.‚Äî Remove  the  white 
part  of  6  mutton  kidneys,  cut  the  kidneys  into  slices,  put,  with  Y2 
tablespoonful  butter,  in  a  small  saucepan  over  the  fire ;  add  1  even 
teaspoonful  salt,  Ys  even  teaspoonful  pepper,  and  cook  6  minutes. 
In  the  meantime  cook  1  tablespoonful  fine-chopped  onion  and  carrot 
in  Yg  tablespoonful  butter  5  minutes ;  add  Ys  tablespoonful  flour, 
and  cook  2  minutes;  next  add  Ys  cupful  boiling  water,  3  table- 
spoonfuls  sherry  wine,  a  little  mushroom  liquor,  Ys  teaspoonful  beef 
extract,  a  small  bouquet,  Ys  even  teaspoonful  salt,  and  a  little  pepper, 
cook  10  minutes ;  add  the  juice  of  Ys  lemon,  strain,  and  add  it  to 
the  kidneys.     Mix  all  together,  and  serve  with  croustade. 


MEATS.  325 

Croustade  of  Kidney.‚Äî Line  6  tartlet  molds  with  puff  paste, 
cover  with  wax  paper,  fill  with  dry  peas,  and  bake  in  a  hot  oven  till 
done ;  remove  paper  and  peas,  and  fill  them  with  the  below-men- 
tioned kidney  preparation  and  serve  hot.  Prepare  the  kidney  for  the 
croustade  as  follows  :  Split  and  remove  the  white  fatty  part  of  8  me- 
dium-sized mutton  or  lamb  kidneys,  cut  the  kidneys  into  slices,  put 
with  1  ounce  butter  in  small  saucepan  over  the  fire,  add  1  even  tea- 
spoonful  salt,  Ys  even  teaspoonf ul  pepper,  cook  6  minutes.  In  the 
meantime  cook  1  tablespoonful  fine-chopped  onion  and  carrot  in  y^ 
tablespoonf  ul  butter  5  minutes  ;  add  Yg  tablespoonful  flour,  cook  2 
minutes ;  next  add  Ys  cupful  boiling  water,  3  tablespoonfuls  sherry 
wine,  1  gill  mushroom  liquor,  1  teaspoonful  beef  extract,  a  small 
bouquet,  Ys  6ven  teaspoonful  salt,  and  a  little  pepper,  cook  10  min- 
utes ;  add  the  juice  of  Y2  lemon,  strain,  and  add  it  to  the  kidney ; 
toss  for  a  few  minutes  over  the  fire,  and  use  as  directed. 

Mutton  Kidney  on  Toast.‚Äî See  Beef  Kidney  on  Toast. 

Irish  Mutton  Stew.‚Äî For  this  take  2Y2  pounds  of  mutton 
from  the  forequarter  (not  too  fat),  place  the  meat  in  a  saucepan, 
cover  with  boiling  water,  cook  3  minutes  ;  remove  the  meat,  and  in- 
stantly drop  it  into  cold  water,  let  it  remain  5  minutes  ;  then  take 
it  out,  cut  it  into  lYg-inch  pieces.  Pare  and  cut  into  slices  6 
medium-sized  potatoes,  4  medium-sized  onions,  cut  half  a  cabbage 
into  shreds.  Mix  2  even  tablespoonfuls  salt  with  1  even  teaspoon- 
ful white  pepper.  Put  a  layer  of  the  meat  into  a  deep  pan,  sprinkle 
over  a  little  of  the  seasoning  salt,  then  add  a  layer  of  onion,  then 
potatoes,  and  next  the  cabbage,  seasoning  each  layer  with  the  sea- 
soning salt ;  continue  in  this  way  till  all  is  in  the  pan.  Add  suf- 
ficient boiling  water  to  nearly  cover  the  stew,  cover  the  pan,  and 
place  it  in  a  vessel  of  hot  water ;  set  it  in  a  medium-hot  oven,  and 
bake  2Y2  hours,  or  until  done.  When  ready  to  serve,  arrange  the 
stew  on  a  long  dish. 

Mutton  Stew  a  la  Galizienne. ‚Äî Select  2Y2  pounds  of  lean 
mutton  without  any  fat  from  the  shoulder.     Melt  2  ounces  butter 


326  MEATS. 

in  saucepan,  add  Yg  cupful  fine-chopped  onion,  1  bruised  clove  of 
garlic,  cook  5  minutes  without  browning ;  season  the  meat  with  1 
tablespoonful  salt,  1  teaspoonful  pepper.  Mix  the  meat  and  sea- 
soning well  together,  add  it  to  the  saucepan,  stir  and  cook  15  min- 
utes ;  add  2  fine-cut  tomatoes  and  3  pints  of  broth  or  water,  cover 
and  cook  slowly  1  hour ;  then  add  1  cupful  parboiled  rice,  cook  30 
minutes  (if  necessary,  add  more  water).     Serve  on  a  hot  dish. 

Mutton  Stew  a  la  Jaworski.‚Äî Procure  2  necks  of  mutton, 
cut  them  into  2-inch  pieces,  place  in  a  saucepan,  cover  with  boil- 
ing water.  Fry  2  ounces  fine-cut  larding  pork  light  brown ;  add 
Y2  pint  of  fine-cut  onions,  cook  5  minutes ;  season  the  meat  with 
1  tablespoonful  salt,  Yg  teaspoonful  pepper,  add  it  to  the  saucepan, 
stir  and  cook  10  minutes  ;  then  cover  with  boiling  water,  and  cook 
30  minutes ;  add  lastly  3  medium-sized  sweet  potatoes,  peeled  and 
cut  into  quarters,  1  pint  of  fresh  shelled  Lima  beans  and  4  medium- 
sized  peeled  potatoes  cut  into  pieces,  cover  and  cook  till  done.  Melt 
1  ounce  butter  in  a  saucepan,  add  1  tablespoonful  flour,  stir  for  a 
few  minutes ;  add  it  to  the  stew,  cook  a  few  minutes  longer ;  then 
serve  on  a  warm  dish,  and  garnish  with  6  stuffed  tomatoes. 

Mutton  Stew  with  Dumplings. ‚Äî Procure  2Y2  pounds  of 
meat  from  the  shoulder,  cut  it  into  2-inch  pieces,  place  in  a  sauce- 
pan, cover  with  boiling  water,  cook  5  minutes  ;  then  drain  the  meat 
and  put  it  into  cold  water,  let  it  remain  a  few  minutes ;  drain 
once  more,  put  the  meat  in  a  saucepan,  again  cover  with  boiling 
water ;  add  2  even  tablespoonfuls  salt,  Ys  e^en  tablespoonful  white 
pepper,  also  6  small  white  onions,  8  whole  peppers,  and  a  bouquet, 
cover  and  cook  slowly  2  hours ;  then  remove  the  bouquet  and  fat. 
Mix  1  ounce  butter  with  1  tablespoonful  flour,  add  it  to  the  stew ; 
mix  1  pint  of  prepared  flour  with  Ys  ounce  of  beef  drippings  or 
butter ;  add  4  tablespoonfuls  cold  water,  the  yolk  of  1  egg,  and  1 
whole  egg.  Mix  this  quantity  together  quickly,  avoiding  too  much 
stirring,  cut  with  a  tablespoon  small  portions  from  this  mixture, 
drop  into  the  boiling  stew,  cover  and  boil  6  minutes ;  then  draw 


MEATS.  327 

tlie  saucepan  to  side  of  stove  where  it  can  not  boil.  Serve  on  a  hot 
dish,  arrange  the  dumplings  in  a  circle  around,  the  edge  of  dish, 
sprinkle  1  tablespoonful  fine-chopped  parsley  over.  Boiled  pota- 
toes and  string  beans  or  stewed  carrots  may  be  served  with  this  dish ; 
or  serve  without  vegetables. 

Mutton  Stew. ‚Äî Cut  273  pounds  of  mutton  from  the  breast 
or  shoulder  into  2-inch  pieces,  place  them  in  a  saucepan,  cover 
with  boiling  water ;  add  4  ounces  salt  pork  cut  into  small  slices, 
2  onions  cut  into  quarters,  1  tablespoonful  salt,  1  even  teaspoon- 
f  ul  pepper,  cover  and  cook  lYg  hour ;  then  strain  the  broth  through 
a  sieve,  remove  every  particle  of  fat.  Eeturn  the  broth  to  the 
mutton,  add  1  quart  of  peeled  potatoes  cut  into  quarters,  cook  until 
the  potatoes  are  done ;  mix  1  ounce  butter  with  1  tablespoonful 
flour,  add  it  to  the  stew,  cook  until  smooth,  then  serve. 

Old-fashioned  Mutton  Potpie. ‚Äî Take  2  pounds  mutton  chops 
off  the  loin,  remove  the  fat,  and  cut  each  chop  into  2  pieces ;  cut  2 
kidneys  into  slices  and  also  2  onions,  and  peel  6  medium-sized  potatoes. 
Line  an  iron  pot  around  the  sides  with  pie  crust  (do  not  put  any 
crust  on  the  bottom),  put  in  layers  alternately  of  the  meat,  onions, 
potatoes,  and  a  few  thin  slices  of  salt  pork ;  season  with  salt  and 
pepper  and  cover  with  the  same  crust ;  then  pour  in  sufficient  boil- 
ing water  to  cover  the  crust,  close  the  pot  tightly,  and  boil  slowly 
ly^  hour.  In  serving,  cut  the  crust  into  pieces,  lay  them  on  a  warm 
dish  to  form  a  border,  and  put  the  rest  in  the  center. 

Mutton  Pie. ‚Äî Take  2  pounds  of  mutton  without  much  bone  or 
fat  and  2  kidneys.  Cut  the  meat  into  lYg-inch-square  pieces  and  the 
kidneys  into  halves,  remove  the  thick  white  part  in  the  center,  then 
cut  the  kidneys  into  slices,  put  them  into  a  pie  dish  with  the  meat, 
season  with  salt  and  pepper,  and  put  a  few  pieces  of  butter  over  it ; 
add  2  tablespoonfuls  minced  onion  and  1  pint  of  water,  cover  with 
a  rich  crust,  and  bake  IY2  hour. 

Sheep's  Liver,  Fried. ‚Äî Cut  the  liver  into  slices,  season  with 
salt  and  pepper,  roll  in  flour  ;  fry  6  slices  of  bacon,  remove  them  to 


328  MEATS. 

a  hot  dish  ;  put  the  liver  into  the  bacon  fat  and  fry  light  brown  on 
both  sides.  Arrange  them  on  a  warm  dish  with  the  bacon  ;  add  to 
the  fat  in  pan  Y2  tablespoonful  flour,  stir  2  minutes ;  add  1  cupful 
stock  or  boiling  water  with  a  little  beef  extract,  ^J^  teaspoonf  ul  salt, 
the  same  of  pepper,  and  a  little  butter  ;  cook  3  minutes  ;  then  strain 
the  sauce  over  the  liver  and  serve.  Calf's,  beef's,  or  lamb's  liver  can 
be  prepared  the  same  way. 

Braised  Mutton  Cutlets  a  la  Proven^ale. ‚Äî Cut  2  necks  of 
mutton  into  thick  cutlets.  Put  2  ounces  fine-cut  larding  pork  in  a 
saucepan,  add  1  sliced  onion,  a  small  carrot,  and  a  bouquet ;  lay  the 
cutlets  over  this,  cover  with  broth,  cover  with  buttered  paper,  put 
on  the  lid,  set  the  saucepan  over  the  fire,  and  boil  gently  IY2  hour ; 
take  them  from  the  fire ;  when  nearly  cold  lift  the  cutlets  carefully 
from  the  liquor,  lay  them  on  a  flat  dish,  put  over  a  light  weight, 
and  set  aside  till  perfectly  cold.  Thirty  minutes  before  serving 
boil  3  large  white  onions  10  minutes  in  water,  remove,  and  chop 
them  fine  ;  place  the  onion  with  1  ounce  butter  in  a  saucepan  over 
the  fire,  cover,  and  cook  till  done  without  browning ;  season  with 
salt  and  a  little  white  pepper,  add  Yg  tablespoonful  flour,  stir,  and 
cook  a  few  minutes ;  add  the  yolks  of  2  eggs  and  a  few  spoonfuls 
cream,  cook  a  few  minutes ;  then  remove  from  the  fire,  trim  the 
cutlets  neatly,  cover  on  one  side  with  the  onion  puree ;  sprinkle 
over  some  grated  Parmesan  cheese  and  bread  crumbs.  In  the  mean- 
time strain  the  broth,  reduce  it  by  boiling  to  half  glaze;  pour  a 
little  of  the  glaze  in  the  pan,  lay  the  cutlet  over,  and  bake  in  a  hot 
oven  to  a  delicate  brown  color  ;  then  remove.  Arrange  them  on  a 
hot  dish  and  pour  a  little  glaze  over  each  cutlet  and  serve. 

Mutton  Cutlets  a  la  Pragoise.‚Äî Prepare  and  boil  2  necks  of 
mutton  the  same  as  in  foregoing  recipe.  When  cold  trim  them 
neatly  and  cover  one  side  with  a  horseradish  puree  prepared  as  fol- 
lows :  Melt  1  ounce  butter,  add  1  tablespoonful  flour,  stir  2  minutes ; 
add  a  cupful  boiling  milk,  stir,  and  cook  a  few  minutes ;  season 
with  1  even  teaspoonf  ul  salt,  add  Y2  teaspoonf  ul  nutmeg,  1  tea- 


MEATS.  32& 

spoonful  sugar,  a  little  Cayenne  pepper,  and  Yg  cupful  grated  horse- 
radish ;  boil  3  minutes  ;  mix  the  yolks  of  2  eggs  with  the  juice  of  Yg 
lemon,  add  it  to  the  horseradish ;  mix  all  well  together,  then  re- 
move. Cover  one  side  of  each  cutlet  with  this  puree,  brush  over 
with  the  beaten  white  of  1  egg,  and  sprinkle  1  teaspoonful  fine- 
fried  bread  crumbs  over  each  one.  Arrange  in  a  pan,  pour  a  little 
half  glaze  under  them,  and  bake  a  few  minutes  in  a  hot  oven  to 
warm  through.  When  ready  to  serve  arrange  the  cutlets  in  a  circle 
on  a  warm  dish  and  place  in  the  center  some  fried  sweet-potato  balls. 

Cotelettes  d'Agneau  a  la  Villeroi. ‚Äî Prepare  12  lamb  chops 
like  French  chops,  season  with  salt  and  pepper,  fry  them  for  a  few 
minutes  in  butter  on  both  sides  about  half  done,  and  then  set  aside 
to  cool.  In  the  meantime  melt  2  ounces  of  butter  in  a  saucepan, 
add  2  heaping  tablespoonfuls  flour,  stir  for  a  few  minutes ;  add  1 
pint  of  boiling  veal  or  chicken  broth,  Y2  cupful  fine-chopped  mush- 
rooms, and  Y2  gill  ot  mushroom  liquor ;  season  with  1  teaspoonful 
seasoning  salt,  cook  5  minutes,  remove  to  the  side  of  stove.  Mix 
the  yolks  of  4  eggs  with  Y2  cupful  cream  and  stir  it  into  the  sauce. 
Stir  for  a  few  minutes  over  the  fire,  add  4  tablespoonfuls  grated 
Parmesan  cheese  and  the  same  of  Swiss  cheese.  Eemove  the  sauce 
from  the  fire  and  let  it  cool  ofiE  a  little.  Dip  the  chops  separately 
into  the  sauce,  smooth  over  with  a  knife,  lay  them  on  a  tin  plate 
with  bread  crumbs  underneath ;  or  the  sauce  may  be  poured  over 
the  chops  with  a  spoon.  Place  the  chops  Ys  hour  on  ice,  then  dip 
them  into  beaten  egg,  and  cover  with  grated  bread  crumbs.  Ten 
minutes  before  serving  fry  them  in  hot  fat  to  a  golden  brown. 
Serve  with  fried  parsley. 

COLD  LAMB  AND  MUTTON. 

How  to  utilize. 
Minced  Lamb. ‚Äî Place  a  saucepan  with  2  ounces  butter  over  the 
fire ;  add  3  tablespoonfuls  fine-chopped  onion,  cook  5  minutes  with- 
then  add  1  heaping  tablespoonful  flour,  stir  and 


330  MEATS. 

cook  2  minutes ;  add  1  pint  of  white  broth ;  season  with  1  tea- 
spoonful  salt,  Ys  teaspoonful  white  pepper,  Yg  teaspoonful  nutmeg, 
and  a  small  bouquet,  cook  6  minutes ;  remove  the  bouquet,  add  1 
quart  fine-chopped  cold  cooked  lamb  either  roasted  or  boiled,  stir 
and  cook  10  minutes ;  serve  on  a  warm  dish,  sprinkle  1  teaspoonful 
fine-chopped  parsley  over,  and  garnish  with  potato  croquettes  or 
croutons. 

Curry  of  Lamb.‚Äî Procure  2Y3  pounds  lamb  from  the  shoul- 
der, cut  it  into  2-incli  sized  pieces,  place  in  a  saucepan,  cover  with 
boiling  water,  let  it  stand  3  minutes,  then  drain  on  a  sieve  and  rinse 
off  with  cold  water ;  return  the  meat  to  the  saucepan,  cover  with 
boiling  water ;  add  2  even  tablespoonfuls  salt,  1  even  teaspoonful 
white  pepper,  and  4  medium-sized  onions,  cover  and  boil  till  the 
meat  is  tender,  about  1  hour.  Melt  2  ounces  butter  in  a  saucepan, 
add  2  tablespoonfuls  flour  and  1  tablespoouf ul  curry  powder,  stir 
and  cook  2  minutes ;  add  the  broth  from  the  lamb,  cook  and  stir 
till  the  sauce  is  smooth ;  then  strain  it  into  a  clean  saucepan.  Mix 
the  yolks  of  2  eggs  with  2  tablespoonfuls  of  lemon  juice,  add  it 
slowly  to  the  sauce  ;  lay  the  meat  on  a  hot  dish  and  pour  the  sauce 
over  it;  garnish  with  a  border  of  boiled  rice.  In  place  of  fresh 
meat  cold  cooked  lamb  may  be  used. 

Lamb  Croquettes. ‚Äî Place  a  saucepan  with  2  ounces  butter 
and  1  fine-chopped  onion  over  the  fire,  cook  5  minutes ;  add  1  heap- 
ing tablespoonful  flour,  stir  and  cook  2  minutes;  add  1  cupful 
boiling  milk,  a  small  bouquet,  1  even  teaspoonful  salt,  Ys  even  tea- 
spoonful white  pepper,  cook  5  minutes ;  remove  the  bouquet,  add  1 
pint  of  finely  minced  cooked  lamb,  Y2  cupful  fine-minced  mush- 
rooms, and  Ys  tablespoonful  fine-minced  parsley,  cook  10  minutes  ; 
add  the  yolks  of  3  eggs,  turn  the  mixture  into  a  shallow  tin  pan, 
and  set  aside  to  cool.  When  ready  to  cook,  form  the  preparation 
into  cork-shaped  croquettes,  dip  them  in  beaten  egg,  then  roll  in 
grated  bread  crumbs  and  fry  in  hot  fat  to  a  delicate  brown.  Serve 
with  bechamel  sauce. 


MEATS.  331 

Hasli  Balls  of  Cold  Lamb  or  Mutton.‚Äî Chop  or  grind  fine 
some  cold  cooked  lamb  ;  add  to  1  joint  of  meat  1  pint  mashed  potatoes, 
or  grated  cold  boiled  potatoes.  Place  a  small  saucepan  with  1  table- 
spoonful  butter  and  1  fine-chopped  onion  over  the  fire,  stir  and  cook 
a  few  minutes,  then  add  it  to  the  meat  and  potatoes ;  season  with  1 
teaspoonful  salt,  Yg  teaspoonf ul  white  pepper,  add  1  egg ;  mix  all 
well  together,  and  form  the  mixture  into  round  balls  the  size  of  an 
egg,  flatten  them  to  V^  inch  in  thickness,  dip  in  beaten  egg,  and 
roll  in  fresh  grated  bread  crumbs.  Place  a  frying  pan  with  1  table- 
spoonful  lard  or  drippings  over  the  fire ;  put  in  the  balls  and  fry 
them  light  brown  on  both  sides.  Serve  on  a  hot  dish  with  stewed 
tomatoes,  tomato,  mushroom,  or  horseradish  sauce. 

POEK. 
Boasted  Pig. ‚Äî The  principal  thing  in  roasting  a  suckling  pig 
is  to  keep  the  skin  from  blistering.  Have  the  young  animal  well 
washed  and  dried,  season  the  inside  with  1  even  tablespoonful  salt 
and  Y2  6ven  teaspoonful  pepper,  then  stuff  it  with  sausage,  oyster, 
or  chestnut  forcemeat,  sew  it  up.  Lay  the  little  pig  in  a  large  roasting 
pan,  bend  the  fore  feet  backward,  the  hind  feet  foreward,  under  and 
close  to  the  body,  then  skewer  them  into  proper  position.  Pour  1 
cup  boiling  water  into  the  bottom  of  pan,  cover  the  entire  animal 
with  buttered  paper,  place  in  a  medium-hot  oven,  baste  frequently 
with  its  own  gravy,  removing  and  replacing  the  paper  each  time ; 
roast  about  2  hours.  (The  skin  should  be  crispy,  and  of  a  fine 
golden  color.)  When  ready  to  serve,  place  the  pig  on  a  warm  dish 
in  the  same  position  it  lay  in  the  pan,  removing  the  skewers.  Take 
2  well-cleaned  horseradish  roots,  shave  them  with  a  knife  into  nar- 
row ribbons,  color  half  of  them  to  a  delicate  pink,  and  leave  the 
other  half  white ;  put  a  little  of  the  iiorseradish  in  its  mouth,  and 
lay  the  remaining  around  it.  (In  carving,  cut  off  the  head,  split 
down  the  back,  take  off  hams  and  shoulder,  and  divide  the  ribs ; 
serve  to  each  person  some  of  the  dressing.)  Remove  the  fat  from 
the  gravy,  mix  1  tablespoonful  cornstarch  with  Y3  cupful  cold  water, 


332  MEATS. 

add  it  to  the  gravy,  stir  and  cook  2  minutes ;  add  sufficient  boiling 
water  to  make  a  creamy  sauce,  boil  3  minutes,  then  strain  and  serve. 

Suckling  Pig  with  Apple  Dressing. ‚Äî Season  the  inside  of 
a  well- cleaned  suckling  pig  with  1  even  tablespoonful  salt,  let  stand 
1  hour ;  then  fill  with  apple  dressing,  described  below ;  sew  up,  tie 
with  strings,  so  that  it  rests  on  its  4  legs,  or  skewer  them  into  proper 
position.  Lay  the  little  animal  in  a  large  roasting  pan,  pour  1  cup- 
ful boiling  water  into  the  pan ;  cover  the  entire  pig  with  buttered 
paper ;  place  the  pan  in  a  medium-hot  oven,  baste  frequently,  re- 
placing the  paper  each  time,  roast  about  2  hours.  When  ready  to 
serve,  lay  the  pig  on  a  warm  dish,  remove  strings  or  skewers  and 
put  a  small  red  apple  in  its  mouth,  and  garnish  with  apple  timbales, 
prepared  as  follows :  Peel  and  core  12  small  sound  red  apples,  lay 
them  in  cold  water,  with  the  juice  of  1  lemon ;  put  the  peel  and 
core  of  the  apples  in  a  saucepan,  cover  with  3  pints  water,  and  boil 
tender,  then  strain  through  cheese  cloth.  Put  the  apple  liquid  in 
a  wide  saucepan,  place  it  over  the  fire  ;  as  soon  as  it  boils  put  in  as 
many  apples  as  will  conveniently  go  in,  cook  until  a  straw  will 
penetrate  easily  through  them,  then  remove  carefully ;  when  all  are 
boiled  in  this  way  set  aside  to  cool.  Strain  the  liquid  through  a 
napkin  and  measure  it  (there  should  be  3  pints ;  if  not,  add  suffi- 
cient water  to  make  up  the  deficiency).  Soak  2  ounces  of  gelatin 
for  a  few  minutes  in  cold  water,  then  add  it  to  the  apple  liquid ; 
add  2  cupfuls  sugar,  1  tablespoonful  lemon  juice,  boil  3  minutes ; 
strain  again  through  a  napkin.  Take  12  timbale  forms  large  enough 
to  hold  a  half  pint,  place  them  in  a  pan  of  cracked  ice  ;  when  the  jelly 
is  cold,  pour  2  tablespoonfuls  jelly  into  each  timbale  form ;  let  it 
stand  till  firm,  then  put  1  apple  into  each  form  and  fill  with  jelly ; 
let  them  stand  till  cold,  then  unmold  and  set  them  in  a  circle 
around  the  little  pig,  and  lay  a  few  sprigs  of  water  cress  between 
the  apples. 

Apple  Dressi]S"G. ‚Äî Pare  and  cut  into  quarters  8  large  greening 
apples,  remove  the  core,  place  the  apples  in  a  saucepan  over  the  fire, 


MEATS.  333 

add  1  cupful  cold  water,  cover  and  cook  till  tender,  but  not  broken ; 
then  remove,  and  when  cold  add  4  ounces  baker's  bread  picked  into 
small  pieces  without  the  rind  and  dried  for  5  minutes  in  the  oven ; 
add  IY2  tablespoonf ul  sugar,  Yg  ounce  butter,  and  2  eggs ;  mix  all 
together,  and  use  as  directed  above. 

Roasted  Pig  with  Oyster  Forcemeat. ‚Äî Roast  the  pig  as 
above,  and  fill  it  with  oyster  forcemeat,  then  decorate  with  fried 
oysters  and  parsley. 

Weissauer. ‚Äî Procure  from  a  pork  store  273  pounds  trimmings 
from  fresh  pork,  wash  and  wipe  dry,  season  with  1  tablespoonful 
seasoning  salt.  Melt  1  tablespoonful  butter  in  a  saucepan,  add  1 
tablespoonful  flour,  stir  a  few  minutes ;  then  add  Yg  pint  boiling 
water,  cook  2  minutes ;  add  1  pint  vinegar,  Y2  tablespoonful  sugar, 
2  onions  with  3  cloves  stuck  into  each  one,  1  bay  leaf,  and  12  whole 
peppers,  cook  a  few  minutes ;  then  add  the  meat,  cover  and  cook 
till  tender.  When  ready  to  serve  lay  the  meat  on  a  warm  dish  and 
strain  the  sauce  over  it. 

Roasted  Loin  of  Pork. ‚Äî Select  a  loin  of  pork  from  a  young 
pig  with  the  rind ;  score  the  rind  across  Ys  of  an  inch  apart,  season 
with  1  tablespoonful  salt  and  Y2  teaspoonful  pepper,  lay  the  pork 
in  a  roasting  pan,  plax3e  it  in  a  medium-hot  oven,  roast  till  light 
brown,  basting  occasionally  with  its  own  gravy,  then  add  Ys  cupful 
boiling  water,  continue  to  roast  and  baste  till  nearly  done,  then 
turn  the  meat  over,  so  the  rind  lays  in  the  gravy,  roast  10  minutes, 
then  turn  it  again  so  the  rind  is  on  top,  let  it  remain  5  minutes 
longer  in  the  oven,  then  transfer  the  meat  to  a  warm  dish,  remove 
the  fat  from  gravy,  mix  1  teaspoonful  cornstarch  with  a  little  cold 
water,  add  it  to  the  gravy,  stir  a  few  minutes  over  the  fire,  add 
sufficient  boiling  water  to  make  a  creamy  sauce,  strain  and  serve 
with  the  meat.  Serve  boiled  potatoes,  sweet  potatoes,  and  apple 
sauce  with  this  dish,  or  red  cabbage  a  I'allemande,  sauerkraut,  or 
creamed  Russian  turnips,  or  either  of  the  2  following  sauces. 

Apple  Sauce  a  l'Anglaise. ‚Äî Peel  and  cut  into  quarters  6 


334  MEATS. 

greening  apples,  place  in  a  saucepan,  add  Ys  cupful  water  and  a 
pinch  of  salt,  cover  and  cook  tender;  add  1  tablespoonful  sugar 
and  rub  the  apples  through  a  sieve  into  a  clean  saucepan ;  add  3 
tablespoonf uls  fresh  grated  horseradish,  cook  4  minutes ;  then  add 
1  gill  of  orange  juice,  and  serve  with  roast  pork  or  pork  chops. 

Apple  Cream  Sauce. ‚Äî Peel  and  cut  6  greening  apples  into 
quarters  and  place  in  a  saucepan ;  add  1  gill  of  water,  cover  and 
cook  till  tender ;  add  lYg  tablespoonful  sugar,  and  rub  through 
a  sieve ;  add  3  tablespoonf  uls  fresh  grated  horseradish,  return  the 
sauce  in  saucepan  to  the  fire,  cook  4  minutes ;  remove  and  add  1 
cupful  whipped  cream. 

Fresh  Ham  a  la  Fran^aise. ‚Äî Choose  a  small  leg  of  pork,  re- 
move the  upper  skin,  rub  it  all  over  with  pepper  and  salt,  put  into 
a  large  bowl  or  jar  with  7g  bottle  white  wine,  Ya  cupful  fine  salad 
oil,  and  6  sage  leaves ;  let  lay  for  3  days  and  turn  each  day.  When 
the  pork  is  to  be  cooked  take  out,  hook  on  to  a  spit,  place  before  a 
bright  fire,  baste  freely  with  the  marinade  in  which  the  meat  lay, 
and  roast  till  done,  which  will  take  from  3  to  4  hours ;  or  put  the 
meat  into  a  baking  pan  with  the  marinade  and  roast  till  tender,  and 
finish  as  in  foregoing  recijae.  When  done  lay  the  meat  on  a  hot 
dish ;  remove  the  fat  from  the  gravy,  mix  1  teaspoonful  cornstarch 
with  a  little  cold  water,  add  to  the  gravy,  stir  and  cook  on  top  the 
stove  3  minutes ;  add  sufficient  broth  to  make  a  creamy  sauce,  boil 
3  minutes ;  then  strain  and  serve  with  the  ham. 

Fresh  Ham^  Potted. ‚Äî Select  a  leg  of  7  pounds  from  a  young 
pig,  wipe  it  off  with  a  damp  cloth ;  rub  1  tablespoonful  salt,  and  Ys 
teaspoonful  pepper  all  over  the  ham,  let  it  lay  1  hour.  Place  a  sauce- 
pan large  enough  to  receive  the  meat,  with  4  ounces  fine-cut  larding 
pork  over  the  fire,  let  fry  light  brown ;  then  add  2  ounces  butter 
and  the  ham,  let  cook  until  it  has  obtained  a  light  brown  all  around, 
turning  frequently;  then  add  Ys  pi'it  of  boiling  water,  1  whole 
onion  with  2  cloves  stuck  in  it,  and  a  few  slices  of  carrots,  cover  and 
cook  about  2Y2  hours,  till  tender  (if  the  gravy  should  get  too  brown, 


MEATS.  335 

add  more  water,  but  a  little  at  a  time).  Shortly  before  serving 
lay  the  ham  on  to  a  warm  dish,  remove  the  fat  from  gravy,  mix 
1  tablespoonful  cornstarch  with  Yg  cup  cold  water,  add  it  to  the 
gravy,  stir  and  cook  2  minutes ;  add  suflBcient  boiling  water  to 
make  a  creamy  sauce,  cook  3  minutes ;  then  strain  through  a  fine 
sieve  and  serve.  A  loin  or  shoulder  of  pork  may  be  cooked  in  the 
same  way. 

Fresh  Ham^  Roasted. ‚Äî Select  a  fresh  ham  with  a  thin  rind, 
which  indicates  that  the  ham  is  of  a  young  pig.  Score  the  rind 
Y4  inch  apart,  season  with  1  tablespoonful  salt,  1  teaspoonful  pep- 
per. Place  the  ham  in  a  roasting  pan  in  a  medium-hot  oven,  roast 
until  light  brown,  basting  often  with  its  own  gravy ;  then  add  Yg 
pint  of  boiling  water,  2  slices  of  carrot,  1  onion  with  2  cloves  stuck 
in,  roast  and  baste  frequently  till  nearly  done  (allowing  20  minutes 
to  a  pound)  ;  turn  the  ham  over  with  the  rind  side  downward  (if 
the  gravy  should  cook  away  too  much  add  more  water,  but  a  little 
at  a  time),  roast  10  minutes ;  turn  the  rind  side  up  and  let  re- 
main 5  minutes  longer  in  the  oven.  Transfer  the  ham  to  a  hot 
dish ;  remove  the  fat  from  the  gravy,  mix  Ya  tablespoonful  corn- 
starch with  little  cold  water,  add  it  to  the  gravy,  stir  and  cook  a  few 
minutes ;  add  sufficient  boiling  water  or  broth  to  make  a  creamy 
sauce  ;  strain  and  serve  with  the  meat.  Serve  with  stewed  prunes 
and  Hanovarian  pudding. 

Hanovarian  Puddixg.‚Äî Sift  2  cups  prepared  flour  into  a 
bowl,  add  2  ounces  butter,  rub  the  butter  fine  in  the  flour ;  mix  2 
eggs  with  Y2  pint  milk,  add  it  to  the  flour ;  add  2  tablespoonfuls 
sugar,  the  grated  rind  of  Ys  lemon,  mix  all  into  a  thick  batter  ;  then 
add  1  cupful  seedless  raisins.  Butter  a  pudding  form,  dust  with 
bread  crumbs,  pour  in  the  batter,  close  the  form,  and  boil  IY2  hour. 
When  done  turn  the  pudding  on  to  a  dish  and  serve  with  the  meat. 
Or  the  ham  may  be  served  with  mashed  potatoes  and  turnips,  or 
apple  sauce,  plain  boiled  potatoes,  creamed  cabbage,  red  cabbage,  or 
sauerkraut. 


336  MEATS. 

Fresh  Ham,  Stuffed.‚Äî Choose  a  leg  of  fresh  pork  of  6  or  7 
pounds  in  weight,  remove  the  bone  and  stuff  the  leg  with  sausage 
forcemeat,  bread  filling,  or  apple  dressing ;  sew  up,  score  the  skin 
across  in  narrow  strips  about  V4  inch  apart,  rub  all  over  with  salt 
and  pepper.  Place  the  ham  in  a  roasting  pan,  and  roast  in  a  medium- 
hot  oven  till  it  begins  to  brown ;  then  add  Yg  pint  boiling  water, 
roasting  and  basting  frequently  till  done,  which  will  take  about  272 
hours.  Shortly  before  serving  lay  the  ham  on  a  warm  dish  ;  re- 
move the  fat  from  gravy,  mix  Yg  tablespoonful  cornstarch  with  a  little 
cold  water,  add  it  to  the  gravy,  stir  for  a  few  minutes  over  the  fire  ; 
add  sufficient  boiling  water  to  make  a  creamy  sauce ;  strain  and 
serve  with  the  ham.  Some  stick  a  few  cloves  in  the  ham,  and 
others  sprinkle  a  little  powdered  sage  over ;  but  most  people  like  it 
cooked  plain. 

Fresh  Ham  a  la  Mariniere. ‚Äî Wash  a  small  leg  of  pork  in 
cold  water,  lay  it  in  a  large  stone  jar.  Boil  1  quart  vinegar  with  1 
pint  water,  1  tablespoonful  whole  pepper,  the  same  of  salt  and 
sugar,  3  bay  leaves,  Vg  dozen  cloves,  2  large  onions  cut  into  slices, 
and  a  bouquet.  After  2  minutes'  boiling  set  it  off,  and  when  cold 
pour  it  over  the  ham,  let  remain  for  3  or  4  days,  and  turn  each  day. 
When  to  be  prepared  for  cooking  take  it  out,  place  in  a  large  baking 
pan  with  the  marinade  in  which  the  meat  lay,  and  roast  in  a  hot 
oven  fully  3  hours,  till  done;  basting  should  not  be  neglected. 
When  the  ham  is  done  lay  on  a  warm  dish  ;  remove  the  fat  from 
gravy,  mix  1  tablespoonful  cornstarch  with  Yg  cup  cold  water,  add 
it  to  the  gravy,  stir  and  cook  2  minutes  on  top  the  stove  (if  too 
thick  add  a  little  boiling  water),  strain  and  serve. 

Corned  Ham,  Boiled. ‚Äî Choose  a  small  plump  ham  which  has 
been  1  week  in  the  brine,  let  it  lay  3  or  4  hours  in  cold  water ; 
place  in  a  kettle,  cover  with  fresh  cold  water,  bring  quickly  to  a 
boil ;  then  let  simmer  slowly  till  done.  (Allow  2Y2  hours  after  the 
water  boils  for  a  leg  of  8  pounds.)  Carrots,  turnips,  or  parsnips 
may  be  boiled  with  the  pork.     In  serving,  some  of  the  vegetables 


MEATS.  337 

sltould  be  laid  around  the  ham  as  a  garnish.  Sauerkraut  boiled 
separately  is  a  nice  accompaniment  to  this  dish  ;  also  cauliflower  or 
creamed  cabbage  may  be  served  with  it. 

Pork  Chops,  Fried. ‚Äî Choose  6  chops  from  the  loin,  have 
them  cut  thin ;  trim  neatly,  season  with  1  even  tablespoonf ul  sea- 
soning salt,  dust  with  flour,  beat  1  egg  until  light,  dip  each  chop  in 
the  egg^  then  cover  with  fine  bread  crumbs.  When  all  are  prepared 
in  this  way,  place  a  frying  pan  with  1  tablespoonful  lard  over  the 
fire  ;  as  soon  as  hot  put  in  the  chops,  fry  light  brown  on  both  sides 
and  well  done ;  transfer  the  chops  to  a  hot  dish  and  serve  with 
boiled,  fried,  or  mashed  potatoes.  Apples  cut  into  thick  slices,  then 
fried  in  the  pork  gravy,  and  laid  around  the  dish  or  on  top  the 
chops  as  a  garnish,  is  an  improvement  to  this  dish.  If  these  chops 
are  served  for  dinner,  creamed  string  beans  and  mashed  potatoes 
may  be  served  with  them.  Pork  chops  may  be  fried  without  the 
egg  and  bread  crumbs,  also  a  little  powdered  sage  may  be  sprinkled 
over  if  liked. 

Pork  Chops,  Broiled.‚Äî Cut  6  chops  from  a  delicate  loin  of 
pork,  trim  nicely,  brush  over  with  a  little  melted  butter ;  lay  the 
chops  on  a  hot  broiler,  and  broil  from  10  to  12  minutes,  till  done. 
In  the  meantime  stir  1  ounce  butter  to  a  cream,  add  1  teaspoonful 
seasoning  salt,  mix  well  together;  lay  the  chops  on  a  hot  dish, 
spread  over  the  butter  on  both  sides,  and  serve  with  baked  or  fried 
potatoes. 

Shoulder  of  Fresh  Pork,  Roasted.‚Äî Prepare  and  roast  the 
same  as  fresh  ham.  The  bone  may  be  removed  and  stuffed  the 
same  as  fresh  ham. 

Pork  Potpie.‚Äî Take  2  pounds  of  fresh  pork  off  the  shin,  crack 
the  bones,  and  cut  the  meat  into  2-inch-sized  pieces ;  pare  6  medium- 
sized  potatoes,  and  cut  each  one  into  2  pieces ;  cut  2  onions  into 
slices.  Prepare  a  crust  of  Yg  pound  of  lard,  1  teaspoonful  salt,  1 
pound  flour,  and  1  cup  cold  water ;  cover  the  bottom  of  a  large 
saucepan  with  a  layer  of  the  meat,  then  a  layer  of  potatoes,  season 


338  MEATS. 

with  salt  and  pepper,  add  some  of  the  onions  and  a  small  piece  of 
butter ;  lay  over  this  4  pieces  of  crust  the  size  of  a  chicken  egg ; 
put  in  the  remaining  meat,  potatoes,  onions,  seasoning,  and  a  little 
butter,  put  over  a  layer  of  crust,  with  an  opening  in  the  center. 
One  hour  before  serving,  pour  sufficient  boiling  water  into  saucepan 
to  cover  the  pie  ;  close  it  tightly  and  boil  1  hour.  When  ready  to 
serve,  remove  the  upper  crust  carefully,  lay  it  as  a  border  on  an 
oblong  dish,  and  put  the  meat  and  potatoes  in  the  center. 

Pork  Stew. ‚Äî Any  part  of  the  pig  will  do  for  this;  cut  the 
meat  into  pieces  lYg  inch  square,  or  if  pig's  feet  are  used,  crack  the 
bones  in  3  or  4  places ;  put  into  a  saucepan  with  suflficient  boiling 
water  to  cover,  add  1  or  2  onions,  the  necessary  salt,  and  stew  till 
done.  Half  an  hour  before  serving,  add  some  potatoes  cut  into 
quarters,  and  6  minutes  before  serving  drop  some  small  dumplings 
into  the  stew  prepared  of  1  cup  prepared  flour,  1  egg,  1  teaspoonful 
butter,  and  mixed  with  water  to  a  stiff  dough  (this  will  make  9 
dumplings) ;  lastly,  add  some  fine-chopped  parsley,  but  do  not  allow 
the  stew  to  boil  with  the  parsley.  Serve  on  a  warm  dish.  Pork 
stew  is  an  economical  dish,  and  very  nice  if  not  too  fat.  Lean  salt 
pork  may  be  taken  in  place  of  fresh,  but  it  should  then  be  placed 
over  the  fire  with  cold  water,  and  if  too  salty,  the  first  water,  after 
having  boiled  a  few  minutes,  should  be  drained  off  and  the  meat 
covered  again  with  fresh  water. 

Pork  Stew  with  Sweet  Potatoes.‚Äî Procure  2V2  pounds  of 
fresh  pork  off  the  loin,  cut  it  into  2-inch  pieces,  wash  in  cold 
water,  place  in  a  saucepan  over  the  fire,  cover  with  boiling  water ; 
add  1  tablespoonful  salt,  Yg  teaspoonful  white  pepper,  and  3  medium- 
sized  onions,  cover  and  cook  40  minutes ;  then  add  4  medium-sized 
sweet  potatoes,  previously  peeled  and  cut  in  half  lengthwise. 
Shortly  before  serving,  melt  Yg  tablespoonful  butter  in  a  small  sauce- 
pan, add  Ys  tablespoonful  flour,  stir  and  cook  a  few  minutes  ;  then  add 
it  to  the  stew,  cook  for  a  few  minutes  longer.  Serve  on  an  oblong 
dish,  laying  the  potatoes  in  a  circle  around  it. 


MEATS.  339 

Sausages,  Fried. ‚Äî Put  2  pounds  sausages  in  a  saucepan,  cover 
with  boiling  water,  let  stand  1  minute  only  ;  then  remove  and  wipe 
dry.  Place  a  frying  pan  with  1  tablespoonful  butter  or  lard  over 
the  fire  ;  as  soon  as  hot  put  in  the  sausages,  fry  light  brown  on  both 
sides,  serve  on  a  warm  dish.  Another  way  is  to  roll  the  sausages  in 
flour,  dip  into  beaten  egg,  roll  in  bread  crumbs,  fry  in  hot  fat  to  a 
fine  golden  color,  and  serve. 

Frankfurter  Sausages. ‚Äî Put  the  sausages  in  a  saucepan  of 
boiling  water,  draw  the  saucepan  to  side  of  stove,  and  let  them  re- 
main 10  minutes  without  boiling ;  then  serve. 

Larded  Pork  Tenderloin,  Roasted. ‚Äî Select  3  nice  large  pork 
tenderloins,  wash  and  wipe  them  dry,  lard  each  with  2  rows  of  fine 
strips  of  larding  pork,  season  with  1  teaspoonful  salt,  %  teaspoonful 
pepper.  Place  in  a  roasting  pan,  add  1  onion  cut  into  slices  and  1 
small  sliced  carrot,  and  pour  1  tablespoonful  melted  butter  over 
each  tenderloin.  Place  the  pan  in  a  hot  oven  to  roast,  baste  well 
with  their  own  gravy  ;  as  soon  as  they  begin  to  brown,  add  a  little 
boiling  water  to  keep  them  from  burning,  roasting  and  basting  often 
till  done,  which  will  take  about  45  minutes.  When  done,  lay  the 
tenderloins  on  a  warm  dish  ;  add  Yg  tablespoonful  cornstarch  dis- 
solved in  1  gill  of  cold  water  to  the  gravy,  stir  and  cook  2  minutes ;  add 
sufficient  boiling  water  to  make  a  creamy  sauce,  cook  a  few  minutes 
longer,  then  strain  through  a  fine  sieve.  Pour  a  little  of  the  sauce 
over  the  tenderloins,  and  serve  the  remainder  in  a  sauce  bowl.  Gar- 
nish the  tenderloins  with  a  border  of  red  cabbage  a  I'allemande  and 
potatoes  tortouia,  or  plain  boiled  potatoes. 

Tenderloin  a  la  Jardiniere. ‚Äî Prepare  and  roast  3  tender- 
loins as  in  foregoing  recipe.  Cut  2  medium-sized  well-cleaned 
carrots  into  slices,  lay  4  slices  over  one  another,  and  cut  them  into 
fine  strips  like  straws ;  place  these  in  a  saucepan,  cover  with  boiling 
water,  add  Ys  tablespoonful  sugar ;  place  the  saucepan  over  the  fire, 
and  cook  till  tender  and  nearly  dry.  Open  a  can  of  French  peas, 
drain  in  a  colander,  and  rinse  with  cold  water ;  place  them  in  a  sauce- 


340  MEATS. 

pan  over  the  fire,  barely  covered  with  boiling  water,  add  1  teaspoon- 
ful  sugar,  and  cook  10  minutes ;  then  add  them  to  the  carrots,  add 
1  even  teaspoonful  salt,  cook  3  minutes.  Mix  1  tablespoonful  butter 
with  1  teaspoonful  cornstarch,  add  it  to  the  peas  and  carrots,  cook 
and  stir  3  minutes  ;  then  add  1  tablespoonful  fine-chopped  parsley  ; 
instantly  remove  from  the  fire,  lay  the  tenderloins  on  a  warm  dish, 
and  arrange  the  vegetables  in  a  circle  around  the  dish.  Or  arrange 
in  clusters  around  the  dish  1  pint  of  cooked  carrot  balls,  1  pint  of 
cooked  Parisienne  potatoes,  Yg  pint  small  cooked  white  onions,  and 
Y2  pint  of  cooked  green  peas. 

Tenderloin  a  la  Mariniere. ‚Äî Lard  3  large  pork  tenderloins 
and  season  them  with  Yg  tablespoonful  salt,  Y4  teaspoonful  pepper, 
place  in  a  covered  dish  with  1  pint  white  wine,  Y2  bay  leaf,  1  onion 
with  2  cloves  stuck  into  it,  and  6  whole  peppers;  cover  and  let  stand 
several  hours.  One  hour  before  serving,  take  the  tenderloins  out  and 
wipe  them  dry,  lay  in  a  roasting  pan,  pour  over  1  ounce  melted 
butter.  Place  the  pan  in  a  hot  oven  to  roast  till  they  begin  to  brown, 
basting  with  their  own  gravy  ;  then  add  1  cupful  of  the  wine  in  which 
the  tenderloins  lay,  also  the  onions  and  spice,  and  continue  to  roast 
and  baste  frequently  until  done  (if  the  gravy  browns  too  much  add 
more  of  the  wine).  When  done  lay  the  tenderloins  on  a  hot  dish 
and  garnish  with  a  border  of  cooked  sauerkraut  and  plain  boiled 
potatoes,  or  with  red  cabbage,  carrot,  turnip,  potato  balls,  and  small 
glazed  white  onions. 

Tenderloin  a  la  Tiennoise. ‚Äî Procure  2  pounds  short  pork 
tenderloins,  wash,  dry,  and  lard  them,  season  with  1  tablespoonful 
salt,  1  teaspoonful  pepper ;  put  in  a  covered  dish  with  2  onions  cut 
into  slices,  1  sprig  of  thyme,  1  bay  leaf,  and  pour  over  1  cupful 
white  wine,  cover  and  let  stand  2  hours.  One  hour  before  serving, 
lay  them  in  a  roasting  pan,  pour  over  a  little  melted  butter,  add  the 
wine  in  which  the  tenderloins  lay,  a  few  of  the  onion  slices,  and  a 
small  carrot ;  place  the  pan  in  a  hot  oven,  baste  frequently,  and 
roast  till  tender.     When  done,  transfer  the  tenderloin  to  a  hot  dish, 


MEATS.  341 

remove  the  fat  from  gravy,  mix  Yg  tablespoonful  cornstarcli  with  Ys 
gill  of  cold  water,  add  it  to  the  gravy,  cook  3  minutes  on  top  of 
stove  ;  add  sufficient  boiling  water  to  make  a  creamy  sauce.  Then 
strain,  add  6  fine-chopped  boiled  chestnuts  and  a  little  beef  extract, 
pour  some  of  the  gravy  over  the  tenderloins,  and  serve  the  remain- 
der in  a  sauce  bowl. 

Tenderloin  Farci. ‚Äî Split  the  pork  tenderloins  on  one  side, 
lay  open  on  a  board,  season  with  salt  and  pepper,  and  cover 
with  forcemeat ;  lay  them  together,  shape  again  into  their  natural 
form,  and  fasten  with  small  wooden  skewers.  Put  in  a  baking 
pan  with  some  butter,  and  roast  in  the  oven  till  done,  basting  first 
with  the  butter,  then  adding  by  degrees  a  little  water.  When  ready 
to  be  served,  put  the  tenderloins  on  a  heated  dish,  remove  the 
skewers,  add  a  little  more  boiling  water  to  the  gravy,  and  thicken  it 
with  1  teaspoonful  cornstarch,  previously  dissolved  in  Y2  giU  of  cold 
water,  cook  3  minutes  ;  then  strain,  and  serve  with  the  meat.  Serve 
with  boiled  potatoes,  creamed  turnips,  and  apple  sauce. 

Tenderloin,  Fried. ‚Äî Split  the  tenderloins,  season  with  salt  and 
pepper,  dip  them  in  beaten  egg  and  fine  bread  crumbs,  and  fry  in 
half  butter  and  half  lard  to  a  nice  brown  color.  The  frying  should 
be  done  slowly  and  the  pan  part  of  the  time  covered,  for  they 
should  be  well  done,  but  not  dried.  Tenderloins  may  also  be  fried 
plain  without  eggs  or  bread ;  they  are  nice  for  breakfast  with  pota- 
toes k  la  creme  and  hot  corn  bread. 

Tenderloin,  Broiled.‚Äî Split  the  tenderloins  and  season  with 
salt  and  pepper,  dip  first  into  melted  butter,  then  into  fine  bread 
crumbs ;  roll  each  piece  separately  in  a  piece  of  white  buttered 
paper,  bend  the  edges  together,  and  broil  them  over  a  slow  fire,  first 
on  one  side,  then  on  the  other,  and  cover  the  gridiron  with  a  tin  pan 
while  broiling  (time  for  cooking,  about  20  minutes).  "When  done 
remove  the  paper,  lay  the  tenderloins  on  a  warm  dish  and  pour  a 
little  melted  butter  over.  Serve  with  tomato  sauce  and  potato 
puree.     Or  lay  the  tenderloins  on  a  dish,  and  sprinkle  salt  and 


342  MEATS. 

pepper,  fine-minced  onion,  and  fine-minced  parsley  all  over  them, 
and  j)our  over  some  fine  salad  oil,  letting  them  remain  1  hour  or 
more.  A  half  hour  before  serving  roll  them  in  buttered  paper,  and 
broil  as  above. 

Short  Pork  Tenderloin.‚Äî Procure  from  the  packing  house 
2Y2  pounds  of  short  pork  tenderloins,  wash  and  wipe  dry,  season 
with  salt  and  pepper.  Place  a  saucepan  with  2  ounces  fine-cut  lard- 
ing pork  over  the  fire,  and  fry  light  brown,  add  1  ounce  butter  and 
the  tenderloins,  turning  often  till  light  brown  ;  then  add  Y2  pint  of 
boiling  water,  1  onion,  and  1  small  carrot,  cover  and  cook  about 
1  hour,  till  done.  Shortly  before  serving,  lay  the  tenderloins  on  a 
hot  dish,  remove  the  fat  from  gravy,  mix  Yg  tablespoonful  corn- 
starch with  1  gill  of  cold  water,  add  it  to  the  gravy,  cook  3  min- 
utes ;  add  sufficient  boiling  water  to  make  a  creamy  sauce,  strain, 
and  serve  with  the  tenderloin.  Stewed  peas  and  carrots  with  boiled 
or  mashed  potatoes  may  be  served  with  this  dish. 

Spare  Ribs,  Filled  and  Baked.‚Äî Take  2  long  pieces  of  spare 
ribs,  wash  and  wipe  them  dry  ;  season  inside  and  outside  Avith  1  table- 
spoonful  salt,  cover  1  piece  with  a  dressing  described  below,  lay  the 
other  over  the  dressing  and  sew  together.  Lay  in  a  roasting  pan, 
pour  over  2  ounces  melted  butter,  place  in  a  hot  oven,  roast  until 
light  brown,  basting  the  meat  well  with  its  own  gravy  ;  then  add  1 
cupful  boiling  water,  roasting  and  basting  about  IY2  hour  till  done. 
When  done  lay  the  ribs  on  a  warm  dish,  take  out  the  threads ;  re- 
move the  fat  from  gravy,  mix  Y2  tablespoonful  cornstarch  with  1 
gill  of  cold  water,  add  it  to  the  gravy,  stir  and  cook  2  minutes ;  add 
sufficient  boiling  water  to  make  a  creamy  sauce,  then  strain  and 
serve. 

Apple  Dressing. ‚Äî Pare  and  quarter  6  large  greening  apples, 
remove  the  core,  and  place  the  apples  in  a  saucepan  over  the  fire, 
add  1  ounce  butter,  1  tablespoonful  sugar,  1  cupful  raisins,  1  table- 
spoonful apple  or  currant  jelly,  cook  8  minutes  over  the  fire  ;  shake 
the  saucepan,  then  remove,  and  when  cold  add  1  cupful  fresh  grated 


MEATS.  343 

bread  crumbs  and  1  egg  ;  use  as  directed.     (In  place  of  tbis  dress- 
ing, a  forcemeat  or  bread  dressing  may  be  used.) 

Spare  Ribs  with  Sauerkraut. ‚Äî Procure  3  pounds  fresb  spare 
ribs  and  wash  them  in  cold  water.  Put  3  pints  of  sauerkraut  in  a 
saucepan,  lay  the  spare  ribs  on  top  of  the  kraut,  cover  all  with  boil- 
ing water ;  place  the  saucepan  over  the  fire,  and  cook  slowly  till 
done,  which  will  take  IY2  hour.  Shortly  before  serving,  lay  the 
spare  ribs  on  a  warm  dish,  and  add  to  the  kraut  1  large  grated  raw 
potato,  previously  peeled  and  washed,  cook  10  minutes ;  then  serve 
with  mashed  potatoes. 

Pigs'  Tails  with  Sauerkraut. ‚Äî Cooked  the  same  as  with 
spare  ribs. 

Potted  Spare  Ribs. ‚Äî Take  3  pounds  fresh  spare  ribs,  wash 
and  wipe  dry ;  then  season  with  1  even  tablespoonful  salt,  1  even 
teaspoonful  pepper.  Place  a  saucepan  with  Yg  tablespoonful  lard 
and  Ya  tablespoonful  butter  over  the  fire,  put  in  the  meat,  and  cook 
till  the  spare  ribs  begin  to  brown,  turning  often ;  add  Ys  cupful 
boiling  water,  cover  and  cook  till  done  ;  if  the  water  boils  away,  add 
more  water  (they  require  about  1  hour's  cooking).  When  done 
transfer  the  ribs  to  a  hot  dish ;  remove  the  fat  from  gravy,  mix  Ya 
tablespoonful  cornstarch  with  1  gill  of  cold  water,  add  it  to  the 
gravy,  stir  and  cook  2  minutes,  then  add  sufficient  boiling  water  to 
make  1  pint  of  sauce ;  strain  and  serve  with  the  meat.  Serve  with 
plain  boiled  potatoes,  sweet  potatoes,  and  apple  sauce. 

Pig's  Tongue  a  la  Jardiniere. ‚Äî Place  3  well-washed  fresh 
pig's  tongues  in  a  saucepan,  cover  with  boiling  water,  add  1  table- 
spoonful salt,  1  even  teaspoonful  pepper,  2  onions,  a  small  carrot, 
and  a  bouquet,  cover  and  boil  till  tender ;  take  out  the  tongues,  free 
them  from  the  skin,  and  lay  on  a  hot  dish,  garnishing  with  1  pint 
cooked  green  peas  and  1  pint  of  cooked  carrot  balls ;  sprinkle  a 
little  fine-chopped  parsley  over  and  serve. 

Pig's  Tongue  RagOilt.‚Äî Prepared  the  same  as  calf's  tongue 
ragout.     (See  Calf's  Tongue.) 


344  MEATS. 

Pickled  Pig's  Tongue. ‚Äî Place  6  fresh  well-washed  pigs' 
tongues  in  a  saucepan,  cover  with  boiling  water,  add  2  even  table- 
spoonfuls  salt,  1  even  tablespoonful  pepper,  2  onions,  and  a  bouquet, 
boil  until  tender ;  then  take  them  out,  remove  the  skin,  trim  neatly, 
and  lay  in  a  stone  jar.     Place  a  saucepan  with  1  quart  vinegar  and 

1  pint  water  over  the  fire,  add  1  tablespoonful  sugar,  12  whole 
peppers,  6  cloves,  and  2  bay  leaves,  boil  a  few  minutes;  add  2  sliced 
onions  to  the  tongue,  pour  the  vinegar  over,  cover  and  set  in  a  cool 
place.  In  serving  cut  the  tongue  lengthwise  into  thin  slices.  If 
salted  tongues  are  to  be  used,  soak  them  over  night  in  cold  water, 
changing  the  water  twice  during  that  time,  and  omitting  the  salt  in 
boiling ;  otherwise  treat  the  same  as  in  foregoing  recipe. 

Pigs'  Feet,  Filled. ‚Äî After  the  feet  have  been  well  cleaned, 
split  them  in  two,  and  tie  together  again  with  tape.  Boil  them 
slowly  in  half  water  and  vinegar,  with  a  small  bunch  of  thyme,  some 
onions,  a  little  piece  of  garlic,  and  some  salt.  When  done  (which 
will  be  in  about  3  hours)  take  them  out,  and  when  cooled  off  a 
little,  remove  the  tape,  taking  out  the  bones.  Lay  the  bunches  of 
meat  on  to  a  clean  cloth,  sprinkle  with  salt  and  pepper,  and  cover 
with  forcemeat  (see  Sausage  Forcemeat)  ;  shape  again  into  their 
natural  form,  brush  over  with  beaten  egg,  and  sprinkle  with  fine 
bread  crumbs.  Fry  in  half  lard  and  half  butter  to  a  fine  brown  color ; 
or,  in  place  of  egg,  dip  them  into  melted  butter,  sprinkle  with 
bread  crumbs,  and  broil  on  a  hot  broiler.  Spare  ribs  may  be  dressed 
in  the  same  way. 

Pigs'  Feet,  Pickled. ‚Äî Put  12  well-cleaned  pigs'  feet  in  a  kettle 
covered  with  water,  allowing  V/2  tablespoonful  salt  to  1  gallon  of 
water,  boil  until  tender.  Put  them  in  a  stone  jar  while  hot,  and 
lay  some  slices  of  onion  between  them  ;  then  place  a  saucepan  with 

2  quarts  of  vinegar  over  the  fire,  add  1  quart  water,  2  tablespoonfuls 
sugar,  1  tablespoonful  whole  peppers,  Yz  dozen  cloves,  and  2  bay 
leaves,  let  this  boil  up,  and  pour  it  while  hot  over  the  feet.  Pigs' 
feet  prepared  in  this  way  may  be  served  cold,  or,  split  in  two,  rolled 


MEATS.  345 

in  Indian  meal  and  fried  in  hot  fat ;  they  may  also  be  dipped  into 
beaten  egg  and  fine  bread  crumbs  and  then  fried. 

Pigs'  Feet  in  Jelly. ‚Äî Clean  and  wash  the  feet  well,  put  them 
over  the  fire  with  boiling  salt  water,  boil  %  hour ;  take  out  and  rinse 
with  cold  water,  pouring  away  the  water  in  which  they  were  boiled, 
and  return  the  feet  to  same  kettle  again ;  cover  with  half  vinegar 
and  half  water,  adding  to  1  gallon  of  liquor,  1  tablespoonful  salt,  2  of 
sugar,  1  of  whole  peppers,  2  bay  leaves,  1  teaspoonful  whole  cloves, 
3  blades  of  mace,  1  teaspoonful  thyme  tied  in  a  cloth,  and  4  large 
onions  cut  into  pieces.  Boil  until  tender,  then  take  them  out,  put 
in  a  stone  jar,  strain  the  liquor  through  a  flannel  jelly  bag,  and  pour 
it  hot  over  the  feet ;  when  cold  tie  the  jars  up  and  set  in  a  cool,  dry 
place.  Pigs'  feet  prepared  in  this  way  are  to  be  served  cold  for 
supper  or  lunch. 

Pig's  Head,  Filled. ‚Äî Cut  a  well-cleaned  pig's  head  open  on 
the  under  side,  remove  the  bones  without  tearing  the  skin,  spread 
it  out  on  the  table,  season  it  inside  and  outside  with  salt  and  pep- 
per, and  fill  it  with  veal  or  sausage  forcemeat  (see  Foecemeat)  ; 
put  in  first  a  layer  of  forcemeat,  lay  on  this  some  strips  of  beef 
tongue  and  of  larding  pork,  some  slices  of  truffles,  and  mushrooms 
(if  handy),  some  pieces  of  roasted  pork  or  veal,  and  some  pickles 
cut  into  strips ;  cover  with  forcemeat,  and  again  lay  the  tongue  and 
other  ingredients  over,  and  so  on,  until  the  head  is  filled.  Sew  it 
up,  and  cover  the  opening  with  a  piece  of  skin  cut  from  fresh  pork, 
sewing  it  all  around  with  thread.  Wrap  the  head  in  a  cloth,  and  bind 
or  sew  it  firmly,  then  put  into  a  large  kettle  with  4  calf's  feet  and 
the  cracked  bones  from  the  head ;  cover  with  cold  water,  add  salt, 
2  onions,  2  bay  leaves,  a  bunch  of  thyme,  V2  dozen  cloves,  1  dozen 
peppers,  and  1  quart  vinegar,  and  boil  3  hours.  Eemove  from  fire, 
letting  it  remain  in  the  liquor  till  cold  ;  then  take  the  head  out,  remove 
the  cloth  and  threads,  take  off  the  skin  from  the  opening  of  the 
neck,  wipe  it  dry,  and  cut  1  slice  from  the  neck  to  show  the  force- 
meat.    Let  the  liquor  get  cold,  remove  the  fat,  and  put  over  the  fire 


346  MEATS. 

again,  adding  the  beaten  whites  of  3  eggs  mixed  with  the  juice  of  1 
lemon,  and  then  taste  ;  if  not  sour  enough,  add  more  vinegar  and  boil 
5  minutes  ;  draw  it  from  the  fire,  let  it  stand  for  5  minutes ;  then 
strain  through  a  napkin  into  a  mold,  and  set  aside  to  cool.  When 
the  head  is  to  be  served,  place  it  on  a  large  dish  and  garnish  with 
the  jelly  and  parsley. 

Spare  Ribs,  Salted. ‚Äî Rub  the  spare  ribs  all  over  with  salt 
and  let  them  lay  for  3  or  4  days,  turning  them  once  or  twice  during 
that  time.  When  they  are  to  be  dressed,  wash  well  in  cold  water, 
put  over  the  fire  in  a  saucepan  covered  with  cold  water,  boil  slowly 
till  done,  which  will  take  about  IY2  hour.  Any  kind  of  vegetables 
may  be  boiled  with  them. 

Head-clieese. ‚Äî Split  a  small  pig's  head  into  two  and  wash  it 
in  cold  water.  Place  the  head  with  2  well-cleaned  pig's  feet  in  a 
kettle  over  the  fire,  cover  with  cold  water,  add  1  tablespoonful  salt, 
and  as  soon  as  it  begins  to  boil  add  3  onions,  1  carrot,  a  large  bou- 
quet, and  1  tablespoonful  whole  peppers,  cover,  and  cook  till  the 
meat  separates  easily  from  the  bone.  When  done  take  out  the  head 
and  feet,  remove  the  meat  from  the  bones  and  chop  it  fine,  season- 
ing with  salt  and  pepper  to  taste.  Eemove  every  particle  of  fat 
from  the  broth,  strain  it  into  a  clean  saucepan,  add  the  meat; 
place  the  saucepan  over  the  fire,  boil,  while  stirring  constantly,  5 
minutes,  then  pour  it  into  molds  or  tin  pans.  When  cold,  turn 
the  head-cheese  out  of  the  form,  cut  in  slices,  and  serve;  or  dip 
the  slices  in  egg  and  bread  crumbs,  and  fry  light  brown.  If  the 
head-cheese  is  to  be  kept  for  a  long  time  put  it  into  a  large  stone 
jar,  and  cover  with  vinegar.  (If  the  quantity  is  too  large  take  Y2 
a  pig's  head,  1  pig's  foot,  and  use  half  of  all  the  ingredients.) 

Head-clieese  a  I'Allemande. ‚Äî Clean  and  wash  a  small  pig's 
head,  place  it  in  a  kettle  with  2  calf's  or  pig's  feet,  cover  with  cold 
water,  add  1  tablespoonful  salt.  Place  the  kettle  over  the  fire,  and 
as  soon  as  it  boils  add  3  onions,  with  3  cloves  stuck  into  each  one, 
1  sliced  carrot,  1  white  turnip,  a  large  bouquet,  and  12  whole  pep- 


MEATS.  347 

pers,  cover,  and  cook  till  the  meat  separates  from  the  bone ;  then 
take  out  the  head  and  feet,  remove  all  the  meat  and  cut  it  into 
small  square  pieces,  and  season  them  with  salt  and  pepper  to  taste. 
Strain  the  broth  through  a  napkin,  remove  every  particle  of  fat, 
return  the  broth  in  saucepan  to  the  fire,  reduce  it  by  boiling  to  3 
pints,  add  vinegar  enough  to  give  it  a  nice  sour  taste.  Beat  the 
whites  of  2  eggs  to  a  stiff  froth,  add  the  juice  of  1  lemon  and  Yg 
gill  of  cold  water,  add  it  to  the  above  broth,  cook  5  minutes ;  then 
draw  it  to  side  of  stove,  letting  it  stand  5  minutes.  Lay  -a  napkin 
in  a  sieve,  set  the  sieve  over  a  bowl,  place  the  bowl  in  a  vessel  of  hot 
water,  then  pour  the  jelly  in  the  napkin.  When  the  jelly  has  been 
strained  in  this  way  set  aside  to  cool.  Have  ready  a  mold,  pour  in 
some  jelly  to  cover  the  bottom,  let  it  stand  till  cold ;  then  lay  in 
the  bottom  some  slices  of  lemon  freed  from  the  pits  and  cut  into 
quarters,  some  green  pickles  and  beets  cut  into  fancy  shapes  ;  over 
this  lay  the  meat,  pour  over  the  jelly,  and  set  aside  in  a  cool  place. 
Serve  cold,  cut  into  slices,  with  remoulade  sauce. 

Scrapple. ‚Äî Place  a  well-cleaned  small  pig's  h,ead  in  a  kettle 
over  the  fire,  add  1  pig's  heartlets,  cover  with  cold  water,  and  as 
soon  as  it  boils  add  3  sliced  onions  and  1  carrot;  add  1  heaping 
tablespoonful  salt,  1  tablespoonful  whole  peppers,  and  a  bouquet, 
cover  and  boil  till  tender.  Place  at  the  same  time  1  pound  well- 
washed  barley  in  a  saucepan  over  the  fire,  cover  with  cold  water,  and 
when  boiling  add  some  of  the  pig's-head  broth,  and  boil  till  tender. 
When  all  is  done,  take  out  the  meat  and  heartlets,  cut  some  of  the 
fat  off  from  the  pig's  head,  and  set  it  aside  to  use  for  other  pur- 
poses. Eemove  the  meat  from  the  bones,  chop  the  meat  and  the 
heartlets  fine  and  mix  with  the  barley ;  season  with  salt,  pepj^er,  and 
thyme ;  put  the  mixture  into  a  long  dish  and  set  in  a  cool  place. 
Scrapple  may  be  eaten  cold,  cut  in  slices ;  but  it  is  mostly  cut  in 
slices  and  fried  in  butter,  lard,  or  drippings ;  the  slices  may  also  be 
dipped  into  beaten  egg,  covered  with  bread  crumbs,  and  fried  light 
brown  on  both  sides. 
23 


348  MEATS. 

Lard. ‚Äî Most  of  the  lard  now  is  adulterated  with  potato  flour, 
water,  salts,  carbonate  of  soda,  and  caustic  lime.  We  seldom  get  it 
pure  ;  unless  able  to  pay  a  high  price  to  a  reliable  party  or  dealer  it 
is  better  to  buy  the  leaf  lard  and  try  it  out.  Strip  off  the  skin  and 
cut  it  into  small  pieces  ;  put  it  in  a  large  saucepan  over  a  moderate 
fire,  letting  simmer  slowly  ;  stir  from  time  to  time  until  it  is  melted. 
If  lard  is  to  be  kept  for  any  length  of  time  it  must  cook  until  done 
(this  may  be  known  by  holding  a  ladle  with  boiling  lard  up  a  little 
above  the  saucepan ;  if  the  lard  continues  boiling  in  the  ladle  it  is 
done,  if  not  it  must  cook  a  little  longer ;  but  great  care  must  be 
taken  that  the  lard  does  not  get  a  dark  color ;  it  should  be  perfectly 
white).  Strain  it  into  small  jars  holding  from  3  to  5  pounds; 
when  cold,  tie  either  paper  or  bladder  over  the  jars,  and  set  on  the 
cellar  floor  or  in  a  cool  place  ;  it  will  keep  for  several  months.  The 
scraps  should  by  no  means  be  thrown  away ;  they  can  be  minced  fine 
and  used  as  lard  in  pie  crust. 

Pork  to  Pickle. ‚Äî One  hundred  pounds  of  meat,  10  pounds  of 
salt,  Y4  pound  saltpeter,  5  pounds  sugar,  9  gallons  of  water.  Mix 
saltpeter,  2  pounds  sugar,  and  2  pounds  salt  together ;  rub  the  meat 
all  over  with  it  and  let  it  lay  on  a  table  or  board  in  the  cellar  for  24 
hours.  Then  pack  it  in  a  barrel,  boil  the  water  with  the  remaining 
salt  and  sugar  until  clear,  and  when  cold  pour  it  over  the  meat  in 
the  barrel. 

COLD  PORK. 
How   to   utilize. 

Pork  Croquettes. ‚Äî Chop  cold  roasted  or  fried  fresh  pork  very 
fine ;  for  12  croquettes  take  1  tablespoonful  butter  and  1  medium- 
sized  fine-chopped  onion ;  place  the  butter  and  onion  in  a  small 
saucepan  over  the  fire,  and  cook  5  minutes  without  browning ;  then 
add  1  heaping  tablespoonful  flour,  stir  and  cook  2  minutes ;  add  Yg 
pint  white  broth  or  boiling  water  with  a  little  beef  extract,  add  1 
even  teaspoonful  salt,  Yg  even  teaspoonf ul  white  pepper,  Y2  teaspoon- 
ful  dry  English  mustard,  and  1  pint  fine-chopped  meat ;  stir  and 


MEATS.  349 

cook  10  minutes  ;  then  add  the  yolks  of  3  eggs  and  1  tablespoonful 
fine-chopped  parsley ;  turn  the  contents  of  saucepan  on  a  flat  dish 
or  pan,  set  it  in  a  cool  place.  When  cold  form  the  mixture  into  12 
cork-shaped  croquettes,  dip  in  beaten  egg,  roll  in  fresh-grated  bread 
crumbs,  and  fry  in  hot  fat  to  a  delicate  brown.  Serve  with  tomato, 
bechamel,  or  Tartar  sauce. 

Minced  Pork. ‚Äî Chop  fresh  cooked  pork  very  fine,  and  then 
measure  it.  Take  for  1  pint  of  meat  Yg  tablespoonful  butter,  and 
Ya  tablespoonful  cornstarch.  Melt  the  butter  in  a  small  saucepan, 
add  the  cornstarch,  stir  and  cook  a  few  minutes  ;  then  add  1  cup  of 
milk,  1  even  teaspoonful  salt,  Ys  e^eii  teaspoonful  pepper,  stir  and 
boil  2  minutes ;  the  add  then  meat,  cook  5  minutes ;  add  lastly  1 
tablespoonful  lemon  juice.  Serve  the  meat  on  a  hot  dish,  sprinkle 
over  1  tablespoonful  chopped  parsley ;  arrange  a  border  of  mashed 
potatoes,  boiled  rice,  or  nudles  around  it.  It  is  also  nice  served  on 
buttered  toast  with  a  poached  egg  on  top  of  each  piece. 

Corned  Ham  boiled  with  Chicken. ‚Äî Procure  a  nice  plump 
chicken  SYa  pounds  in  weight  and  a  small  corned  ham  of  6 
pounds.  Wash  and  place  the  ham  in  a  kettle  over  the  fire ;  cover 
with  cold  water.  Clean,  wash,  and  dry  the  chicken,  season  inside 
with  1  teaspoonful  salt  and  a  little  pepper.  Place  Ys  pound  well- 
washed  rice  in  a  saucepan  ;  cover  with  cold  water,  boil  10  minutes  ; 
drain  and  rinse  off  with  fresh  cold  water.  Place  a  saucepan  with  1 
tablespoonful  butter  and  2  tablespoonfuls  fine-chopped  onions  over 
the  fire,  cook  5  minutes  without  browning;  add  the  rice,  season 
with  Y2  teaspoonful  salt  and  a  little  pepper,  stir  and  cook  3  min- 
utes ;  fill  the  chicken  with  the  rice,  sew  it  up  ;  as  soon  as  the  ham 
boils  add  the  chicken  and  boil  till  tender ;  serve  with  cooked  vege- 
tables and  cream  sauce.  If  the  onions  are  objected  to  they  may  be 
omitted. 

Sour  Stew  of  Cold  Roasted  Pork. ‚Äî Cut  the  remnants  of 
fresh  cold  cooked  pork  into  1-inch  pieces,  then  weigh  ;  for  2 
pounds  take  2  medium-sized  sliced  onions,  1  tablespoonful  butter ; 


350  MEATS. 

put  the  onions  and  butter  in  a  saucepan  over  the  fire,  and  cook  5 
minutes  without  browning;  then  add  1  teaspoonful  salt,  ^g  tea- 
spoonful  pepper,  and  1  tablespoonful  flour,  stir  and  cook  3  min- 
utes ;  then  add  Yg  pint  of  vinegar,  1  pint  boiling  water,  1  bay  leaf, 
1  blade  of  mace,  12  whole  peppers,  and  2  tablespoonfuls  of  sugar, 
boil  5  minutes  ;  add  lastly  the  meat,  cook  slowly  20  minutes.  Serve 
with  farina  dumplings,  boiled  nudles,  or  potato  dumplings. 

Ham  Sandwiches,  Plain. ‚Äî Have  the  bread  cut  into  thin 
slices ;  butter  and  lay  some  thin  slices  of  cold  ham  between  2  slices 
of  bread,  and  spread  over  the  meat  a  little  mustard. 

Ham  Sandwiches  of  Biscuits. ‚Äî Cut  a  soda  biscuit  in  two 
and  spread  with  butter ;  chop  cold  boiled  ham  very  fine,  cover  half 
of  the  biscuit  with  the  chopped  ham,  place  the  other  half  over  it  so 
that  the  biscuit  regains  its  original  form,  and  serve  for  tea.  Ham 
prepared  thus  will  go  a  great  way,  and  is  much  more  convenient 
than  when  cut  into  slices.     It  is  very  nice  for  tea  parties  or  picnics. 

Ham  Hash. ‚Äî Mix  1  pound  of  fine-chopped  or  ground  ham 
with  2  pints  fine-chopped  cold  boiled  potatoes.  Melt  Yg  tablespoon- 
ful butter  in  a  saucepan,  add  2  tablespoonfuls  fine-chopped  onion, 
cook  5  minutes  ;  add  1  tablespoonful  flour,  stir  and  cook  2  minutes ; 
then  add  1  cupful  milk  or  meat  broth,  stir  2  minutes ;  season  with 
Yi  teaspoonful  pepper,  add  the  ham  and  the  potatoes,  stir  and  cook 
10  minutes ;  then  serve. 

Ham  and  Eggs. ‚Äî Cut  some  thin  slices  of  ham,  taking  care  to 
have  them  of  the  same  thickness  in  every  part ;  cut  off  the  rind, 
and,  if  the  ham  should  be  too  hard  and  salty,  put  it  in  a  saucepan 
of  boiling  water,  cover  tightly,  and  let  it  remain  15  minutes  (but  do 
not  allow  to  boil).  When  ready  for  frying,  take  it  out  and  wipe 
dry.  Place  a  frying  pan  over  the  fire  with  a  little  butter  or  lard ; 
when  very  hot  put  in  the  ham  and  fry  quickly  on  both  sides  to  a 
fine  brown  color.  When  done  transfer  to  a  heated  dish,  break  the 
eggs  into  cups,  slip  them  into  the  hot  fat,  and  let  them  remain  until 
the  whites  are  delicately  set ;  and  while  they  are  frying  ladle  a  little 


MEATS.  351 

of  the  fat  over  them.  Take  up  one  at  a  time  with  a  pancake  turner, 
drain  them  for  a  minute  from  their  greasy  moisture,  trim  them 
neatly,  and  lay  carefully  on  the  slices  of  ham.  If  boiled  ham  is 
used,  cut  it  into  thin  slices,  fry  quickly  for  2  minutes  in  butter, 
transfer  to  a  hot  dish,  and  lay  on  each  slice  a  fried  or  poached  egg. 

Remnants  of  Cold  Ham,  No.  1. ‚Äî Mince  any  remnant  of  ham 
very  fine ;  place  a  frying  pan  over  the  fire  with  a  piece  of  butter, 
and  when  melted  put  in  the  ham,  stirring  until  thoroughly  heated 
through.  Take  for  each  cupful  of  minced  ham  2  or  3  well-beaten 
eggs,  and  put  over  the  ham,  stirring  until  the  eggs  are  done,  which 
will  be  in  2  minutes,  then  serve  on  a  warm  dish  for  breakfast,  tea, 
or  lunch. 

Remnants  of  Cold  Ham,  No.  2. ‚Äî Chop  remnants  of  boiled 
ham  very  fine ;  add  to  1  pint  of  fine-chopped  ham  2  eggs,  2  table- 
spoonfuls  bread  crumbs,  Y4  teaspoonful  white  pepper ;  then  cut  6 
thin  slices  from  a  small  loaf  of  bread,  dip  them  in  milk,  lay  the 
slices  over  one  another,  let  them  stand  5  minutes.  Beat  up  2  eggs, 
dip  each  slice  into  the  beaten  egg,  then  in  grated  bread  crumbs,  and 
cover  with  the  ham  mixture.  Melt  Yg  tablespoonf ul  lard  or  drippings 
in  a  frying  pan,  add  Yg  tablespoonful  butter,  and  when  hot  put  in 
the  slices,  frying  light  brown  on  both  sides ;  then  serve  on  a  warm 
dish  for  breakfast,  tea,  or  lunch. 

Cold  Potted  Ham. ‚Äî Grind  or  chop  fine  some  cold  boiled  ham, 
add  to  every  pound  2  ounces  butter,  4  fine-minced  anchovies  pre- 
viously soaked  in  cold  water  and  freed  from  skin  and  bones,  Yi 
teaspoonful  white  pepper,  Y4  teaspoonful  grated  garlic ;  mix  all  well 
together,  and  press  the  mixture  into  a  small  jar ;  pour  Y2  ounce 
melted  butter  over  and  keep  in  a  cool  place.  This  is  very  nice  for 
sandwiches  or  for  stuffing  eggs. 

Cold  Ham  with  Cream  Sauce. ‚Äî Chop  remnants  of  cold  ham 
fine,  put  it  in  a  frying  pan,  and  cover  with  milk ;  add  a  piece  of 
butter  mixed  with  a  little  cornstarch,  stir  until  it  boils,  then  pour 
over  buttered  toast,  and  serve. 


352  MEATS. 

Ham  Pie. ‚Äî Cut  1%  pound  boiled  ham  and  I'/g  pound  of  cold 
roasted  veal  into  small  pieces.  Prepare  a  forcemeat  of  Yg  pound  fine- 
chopped  veal,  Yg  pound  sausage  meat,  and  Ys  cup  of  fine-cut  lard- 
ing pork,  season  with  salt  and  pepper,  a  little  thyme,  and  1  grated 
onion ;  also  a  few  mushrooms  stewed  in  butter,  or  truffles  cut  into 
slices,  may  be  added.  Line  a  deep  pie  dish  with  a  rich  crust,  and 
cover  the  bottom  with  a  layer  of  forcemeat,  over  this  some  of  the 
ham  and  veal  pieces,  continuing  until  all  is  used  up ;  let  the  last 
layer  be  forcemeat ;  sprinkle  some  fine-cut  pork  over  it,  and  cover 
with  crust.  Make  a  slit  crosswise  in  the  center  of  the  upper  crust 
and  bend  the  4  corners  backward,  cut  out  8  large  leaves  of  paste 
and  lay  them  around  the  edge  of  crust,  baking  1  leaf  separately,  to 
cover  the  hole  in  the  center,  when  the  pie  is  done.  Bake  in  a  hot  oven 
1  hour.  In  the  meantime  prepare  a  sauce :  Put  in  a  saucepan  a 
small  tablespoonful  flour,  mix  with  lYs  cup  cold  water,  add  the 
yolks  of  2  eggs,  1  tablespoonful  butter  cut  into  pieces,  beat  up  well. 
Place  the  pan  over  the  fire,  stir  constantly  until  just  to  the  boiling 
point,  then  remove  and  keep  warm  in  a  vessel  of  hot  water.  When 
the  pie  is  done,  put  a  funnel  in  the  hole  of  top  crust,  pour  the  sauce 
into  the  pie,  let  it  remain  in  the  oven  for  a  few  minutes  with  the 
door  open,  then  serve.     This  pie  may  be  served  hot  or  cold. 

Ham  Pie  with  Macaroni. ‚Äî Chop  remnants  of  boiled  ham 
fine,  boil  twice  the  quantity  of  macaroni  in  salted  water,  cut  the 
boiled  macaroni  into  1-inch  lengths.  Place  a  saucepan  over  the  fire 
with  a  piece  of  butter ;  add  the  ham,  the  macaroni,  3  or  4  table- 
spoonfuls  grated  cheese,  Y2  cup  of  milk  or  cream,  and  stir  the  whole 
well  together.  Make  a  rich  pie  crust,  roll  out  twice  as  thick  as  for 
fruit  pie  for  the  top  crust,  and  about  the  ordinary  thickness  for  the 
lower.  Line  a  pudding  dish  with  the  thinner  crust  and  fill  with  dry 
peas ;  butter  the  edges  of  dish,  so  that  the  upper  crust  may  be  lifted 
without  breaking ;  cover  the  mock  pie  with  the  thick  crust,  orna- 
ment the  edge,  and  put  it  to  bake  in  a  hot  oven.  When  done  re- 
move the  top  crust,  turn  out  the  peas,  put  in  the  macaroni  mixture, 
cover  again  with  the  crust,  and  serve. 


MEATS.  353 

Ham  with  Nudles. ‚Äî Prepare  nudles  from  2  eggs  (seeNuDLEs), 
cut  them  into  strips  Y4  inch  wide,  boil  in  salted  water,  and  drain 
through  colander  ;  mix  them  with  1  pound  fine-minced  boiled  ham, 
1  cup  cream  or  milk,  3  eggs,  a  small  grated  onion,  and  a  little  nut- 
meg. Put  the  mixture  into  a  pie  dish,  lay  small  pieces  of  butter  on 
top,  and  bake  about  Yg  hour. 

Ham  Pudding. ‚Äî One  quarter  pound  Italian  macaroni  boiled 
in  salted  water  and  cut  into  pieces,  %  pound  fine-chopped  boiled 
ham,  4  ounces  grated  Parmesan  cheese,  3  ounces  butter,  the  yolks 
and  the  whites  of  6  eggs  beaten  separate'ly.  Mix  all  the  ingredients 
well  together,  add  lastly  the  beaten  whites.  Eub  a  tin  form  inside 
with  butter,  sprinkle  with  bread  crumbs,  fill  it  with  the  ham  mix- 
ture, cover  the  form,  and  boil  the  pudding  IY2  hour.  When  done 
take  off  the  cover,  turn  the  pudding  on  to  a  warm  plate,  and  serve 
with  mushrooms,  tomato  or  plain  butter  sauce.  In  place  of  ham, 
smoked  beef  or  beef  tongue  may  be  used. 

Ham  Omelette. ‚Äî One  cup  of  fine-minced  cold  ham,  6  egg 
yolks  and  whites  beaten  separately,  6  teaspoonfuls  cornstarch,  Yg 
pint  of  milk,  Y4  teaspoonful  salt,  1  tablespoonful  melted  butter,  Y2 
teaspoonful  baking  powder.  Mix  the  yolks,  salt,  and  butter  well 
together,  by  degrees  add  the  milk  and  cornstarch,  then  add  this 
slowly  to  the  beaten  whites.  Place  an  omelette  pan  with  1  table- 
spoonful  butter  over  the  fire  ;  as  soon  as  the  butter  is  melted  pour 
in  half  of  the  mixture ;  bake  until  light  brown  on  the  under  side, 
then  place  the  pan  for  a  few  minutes  in  a  hot  oven.  Sprinkle  Y2  of 
the  ham  over  the  surface,  slip  a  broad-bladed  knife  under  one  side 
of  the  omelette,  and  double  in  half,  inclosing  the  meat.  Then 
upset  the  frying  pan  on  a  hot  dish,  treat  the  remaining  mixture  the 
same  way,  and  serve. 

Bacon,  Fried. ‚Äî Cut  the  bacon  into  thin  slices,  take  off  the 
rind,  and  pour  boiling  water  over  it,  letting  it  remain  5  minutes ; 
then  take  it  out  and  wipe  it  dry.  Place  a  frying  pan  over  the  fire  ; 
when  hot  put  in  the  bacon,  fry  light  brown  on  both  sides,  and  serve. 


354  MEATS. 

Eggs  may  be  fried  in  the  bacon  fat  and  put  over  the  bacon.     Calf's 
liver  fried  with  bacon  is  also  an  excellent  dish  for  breakfast. 

Bacon,  Boiled. ‚Äî After  the  bacon  is  well  washed  place  it  over 
the  fire  with  cold  water  and  let  it  boil  slowly  till  done.  When 
ready  to  serve  remove  it  to  a  heated  dish  and  serve  with  boiled  vege- 
tables, or  leave  it  in  the  liquor  until  cold.     Serve  cold  cut  in  slices. 

Bacon,  Broiled. ‚Äî Prepare  the  bacon  as  for  frying  and  broil  it 
over  a  clear  fire. 

Smoked  Ham ‚Äî How  to  boil. ‚Äî Soak  the  ham  over  night. 
Next  morning  wash  it  in  several  waters,  put  it  in  a  boiler,  cover 
with  cold  water  ;  bring  it  slowly  to  a  boil,  then  draw  the  boiler  to 
side  of  stove,  and  let  it  simmer  gently  till  done,  which  will  take  for 
a  large  ham  from  3  to  4  hours.  (To  ascertain  if  done,  test  it  with  a 
fork  or  larding  needle ;  if  it  penetrates  easily,  it  is  done ;  if  not, 
the  boiling  must  be  continued.)  When  done  remove  the  boiler 
from  the  fire  and  let  the  ham  remain  in  the  liquor  until  cold ;  by 
this  method  the  juice  is  kept  in,  and  it  will  be  found  far  superior  to 
one  taken  out  of  the  water  hot.  If  the  ham  is  smoked  lightly  and 
not  very  dry,  it  does  not  need  to  be  soaked.  Then  take  it  out,  re- 
move the  skin  and  black  and  rusty  parts,  and  carve  in  thin  slices. 
When  ham  is  served  cold  it  should  be  carved  in  very  thin  slices, 
arranged  neatly  on  a  dish,  garnished  with  parsley,  and  served  with 
mustard.  Hard-boiled  eggs  freed  from  the  shells  and  cut  into 
halves  are  often  served  with  cold  ham ;  also  potato  salad,  potatoes 
with  parsley  or  butter  sauce,  string  beans  with  cream  sauce,  or  bean 
salad.  Another  nice  way  is  to  garnish  the  dish  of  ham  with  white 
and  red  aspic. 

Champagne  Ham. ‚Äî Prepare  the  ham  as  in  foregoing  recipe ; 
when  done  take  it  from  the  boiler,  remove  the  skin,  cut  off  all  the 
black  parts,  and  put  it  in  a  roasting  pan  with  1  quart  champagne  or 
white  wine ;  baste  freely  and  roast  the  ham  for  Yg  hour ;  then 
brush  over  the  top  of  ham  with  beaten  egg  and  cover  it  Y4  of  an 
inch  thick  with  fine  bread   crumbs  which  have  been   previously 


MEATS.  355 

mixed  with  1  tablespoonful  of  brown  sugar.  Baste  the  top  a  little 
first,  and  after  the  crust  has  formed  stop  basting.  Eoast  for  Y2  hour 
longer  and  serve  with  boiled  vegetables.  The  gravy  should  be  freed 
from  fat  and  reduced  by  boiling,  then  strained,  and  served  with  the 
meat.     In  place  of  champagne  or  wine,  cider  may  be  used. 

Uam  in  Burgundy. ‚Äî Boil  a  well-cleaned  and  soaked  ham  for 
3  ^ours  in  water  with  4  onions,  3  bay  leaves,  2  tablespoonfuls  whole 
pepper,  Y2  dozen  cloves,  a  bouquet,  and  2  blades  of  mace.  After 
that  take  it  out,  remove  the  skin,  cut  off  all  the  black  parts,  and 
place  it  in  a  roasting  pan.  Melt  2  ounces  butter  in  a  saucepan,  add 
1  tablespoonful  flour,  stir,  and  cook  2  minutes ;  add  1  cup  bouillon, 
1  teaspoonful  beef  extract,  2  tablespoonfuls  brown  sugar,  and  1 
bottle  Burgundy  or  red  wine  ;  boil  5  minutes,  then  pour  it  over  the 
ham,  put  it  to  roast  in  a  hot  oven,  baste  freely,  and  roast  1  hour. 
Twenty  minutes  before  serving  cover  the  top  of  ham  with  a  mixture 
of  fine  bread  crumbs,  brown  sugar,  and  a  pinch  of  cloves.  Baste 
the  top  a  little  at  first  until  the  bread  has  formed  a  crust,  then 
stop  basting.  When  done  remove  the  ham  to  a  dish,  skim  and 
strain  the  sauce,  add  1  tablespoonful  currant  jelly,  and  serve  with 
the  ham. 

Ham  with  Cumberland  Sauce. ‚Äî Soak  a  smoked  ham  over 
night ;  next  morning  wash  and  brush  it  with  a  stiff  brush,  cut  off 
all  the  black  parts,  saw  a  small  end  of  about  2  inches  from  the 
knuckle,  and  after  the  ham  has  been  thoroughly  cleaned  and  washed, 
wrap  it  tightly  in  a  clean  cloth  and  bind  it  firmly  with  a  strong 
string.  Place  it  in  a  boiler  over  the  fire,  cover  with  cold  water,  add 
3  onions,  6  cloves,  a  bouquet,  and  2  bay  leaves ;  boil  slowly  from  3 
to  4  hours.  When  the  ham  is  done  take  it  from  the  boiler,  remove 
the  cloth,  and  take  off  the  skin,  except  a  round  piece  around  the 
knuckle,  which  is  cut  out  in  small  scallops ;  cut  also  some  of  the  fat 
off,  then  place  it  in  a  double  roasting  pan,  not  much  larger  than  the 
ham ;  add  1  cup  strong  bouillon  (or  dissolve  1  teaspoonful  beef  ex- 
tract in  1  cup  boiling  water),  add  2  cups  white  wine,  cover  tightly 


356  MEATS. 

and  stew  slowly  for  Yg  hour,  basting  frequently ;  or  jAace  the  pan  in 
the  oven.  When  done,  transfer  the  ham  to  a  warm  dish,  set  it  a 
few  minutes  in  the  front  of  oven,  and  brush  it  over  with  glaze.  For 
the  sauce :  Take  1  bitter  orange  and  one  sweet  orange,  a  small  cup 
of  currant  jelly,  V/2  cup  claret,  3  pieces  of  lump  sugar,  and  2  tea- 
spoonfuls  English  mustard.  Pare  the  bitter  orange  very  thin,  and 
boil  the  peel  15  minutes  in  water,  take  it  out  and  cut  as  fine  as  pos- 
sible. Rub  with  the  sugar  the  yellow  skin  from  the  sweet  orange, 
squeeze  half  the  juice  from  the  oranges  over  the  sugar,  and  pound 
it  fine.  Mix  the  jelly,  mustard,  and  sugar  together,  so  that  the  in- 
gredients are  well  blended,  then  add  by  degrees  the  wine,  and  lastly 
the  orange  peel ;  serve  with  the  ham.  Cold  boiled  ham  cut  into 
thin  slices  arranged  nicely  on  an  oval-shaped  dish,  garnished  with 
a  border  of  fine-chopped  aspic  and  some  Cumberland  sauce  poured 
over  the  slices  of  ham,  is  a  pretty  dish  for  supper  or  lunch  and  one 
that  is  well  worth  the  trouble  to  make. 

Ham,  Broiled. ‚Äî Have  the  ham  cut  into  slices  V2  inch  thick, 
cut  off  the  rind  and  place  the  slices  on  a  hot  broiler ;  broil  over  a 
moderate  fire  on  both  sides  light  brown ;  remove  to  a  hot  dish, 
spread  a  little  butter  over  each  slice,  and  serve.  If  the  ham  is  very 
salty  it  is  best  to  lay  it  in  boiling  water  for  15  minutes,  changing 
the  water  twice  during  that  time,  then  wijDe  it  dry  and  broil  the 
same  way ;  or  the  ham  may  be  cut  thin  and  broiled  3  minutes  on 
each  side  ;  but  most  people  prefer  the  ham  cut  thick  for  broiling. 

Ham,  Fried. ‚Äî Cut  thin  slices  from  a  nice  smoked  ham,  trim  it 
neatly,  place  a  frying  pan  over  the  fire,  with  Yg  tablespoonf ul  butter ; 
when  hot  put  in  the  ham,  fry  a  few  minutes  on  both  sides.  Re- 
move and  lay  the  ham  on  a  hot  dish,  add  a  little  boiling  water  to  the 
gravy,  and  pour  it  over.  In  case  the  ham  is  too  salty,  lay  the  slices 
for  10  minutes  in  boiling  water,  then  remove,  dry  it  on  a  towel. 
Fry  the  same  as  above. 


POULTRY. 

How  to  choose  Poultry. ‚Äî In  choosing  poultry  the  age  of  the 
bird  is  the  principal  thing  to  be  attended  too ;  the  best  chickens  are 
plump  on  the  breast,  fat  on  the  back,  with  smooth  yellow  legs,  ten- 
der skin,  and  the  lower  part  of  the  breast  bone  soft  and  pliable.  A 
young  turkey  is  known  by  its  short  spur^,  black  and  smooth  legs. 
The  age  of  a  young  duck  may  be  ascertained  by  taking  hold  of  the 
foot  and  tearing  the  skin  between  the  toes ;  if  the  skin  tears,  the 
duck  is  young ;  if  not,  it  is  old.  Geese  may  be  known  by  taking 
the  windpipe  between  2  fingers  and  pressing  it;  if  young,  a  low 
crackling  sound  will  be  heard  ;  also,  if  the  thumb  will  easily  press 
through  the  skin  under  the  wing,  the  goose  is  young,  otherwise  old. 
All  poultry  should  hang  at  least  from  24  to  48  hours  in  a  cool  place 
after  they  are  killed  before  cooking. 

How  to  kill  Poultry. ‚Äî The  killing  of  chicken  and  turkey  is 
done  either  by  chopping  off  the  head,  by  cutting  the  artery  on  the 
neck,  or  by  cutting  the  throat  with  a  sharp  knife.  After  it  is  killed, 
hang  it  up  by  the  feet,  and  as  soon  as  the  bleeding  stops,  pick  off 
the  feathers  while  yet  warm  ;  then  singe  them  either  over  burning 
alcohol,  over  a  gaslight,  or  over  burning  paper.  Geese  and  ducks 
are  killed  by  taking  the  fowl  under  the  left  arm,  holding  the  bill  in 
the  left  hand,  then  stabbing  it  on  top  the  head,  having  a  sharp- 
pointed  knife  in  the  right  hand  ;  holding  the  fowl  in  that  position, 
letting  the  blood  run  into  a  vessel  to  which  a  little  vinegar  is  added 
to  keep  it  from  clogging  ;  when  the  blood  stops  running,  hold  a  red- 
hot  iron  for  a  minute  on  the  place  where  it  has  been  stabbed ;  this 
is  done  to  prevent  any  blood  dripping  on  the  feathers ;  the  feathers 

357 


358  POULTRY. 

are  then  carefully  picked  off,  and  the  fowl  singed  and  drawn.  The 
feathers  from  geese,  ducks,  prairie  hens,  pigeons,  and  birds  of  all 
kinds  are  always  picked  off  dry.  Chickens  are  often  scalded  in 
boiling  water ;  the  feathers  can  then  easily  be  removed,  but  they 
are  far  inferior  to  the  dry-picked  chickens. 

Drawing  Poultry. ‚Äî Cut  off  the  feet  at  the  first  joint,  then 
the  head  and  half  the  neck;  next  cut  the  skin  on  the  back  of  the 
neck  down  to  the  back  of  the  wing ;  detach  the  skin  from  the  neck, 
draw  the  skin  down  over  the  breast ;  cut  off  the  remainder  of  the 
neck  close  to  the  body ;  remove  the  crop  and  windpipe ;  break  with 
the  forefinger  the  ligaments  that  hold  the  internal  organs  to  the 
breastbone  ;  then  cut  an  opening  below  the  breastbone  down  to 
the  vent ;  put  the  hand  in  the  opening,  carefully  work  the  hand 
slowly  around  until  the  top  of  the  breastbone  is  reached,  and  draw 
out  all  the  organs  at  once ;  close  to  the  ribs  will  be  found  a  soft 
pinky  substance,  called  lungs  or  lights ;  these  should  also  be  re- 
moved ;  then  cut  out  the  vent  and  the  oil  bag  on  the  tail ;  care- 
fully examine  if  every  particle  of  the  organs,  windpipe,  and  crop 
have  been  removed  ;  then  wash  it  quickly  inside  and  outside  with  cold 
water.  Never  let  poultry  lie  in  water,  the  washing  should  not  take 
longer  than  2  minutes.  (Poultry  when  soaked  in  water  loses  its 
flavor  and  nourishment ;  it  should  therefore  not  be  allowed  to  lie  in 
water  at  all.)  Cut  the  gizzard  open,  remove  the  thick  inside  skin, 
and  carefully  remove  the  gall  bag  from  the  liver. 

Chicken  a  la  Creole. ‚Äî Select  a  young  plump  chicken  3  pounds 
in  weight ;  singe,  draw,  and  wash  it  quickly  in  cold  water ;  then 
cut  it  into  10  pieces ;  season  with  1  even  tablespoonf ul  salt,  and  1 
even  teaspoonful  pepper ;  mix  the  chicken  and  seasoning  well  to- 
gether. Place  the  feet  for  1  minute  in  boiling  water;  then  take 
them  out,  remove  the  skin,  and  place  them  with  the  giblets  and 
neck  over  the  fire ;  add  Yg  teaspoonful  salt  and  1  quart  cold  water ; 
as  soon  as  it  boils  add  1  onion ;  cover  and  cook  1  hour.  Place  a 
saucepan  with  3  ounces  fine-cut  larding  pork  over  the  fire,  cook  till 


POULTRY.  359 

light  brown ;  then  add  1  ounce  butter  and  3  tablespoonfuls  fine-cut 
onions,  cook  3  minutes  without  browning ;  put  in  the  chicken, 
cover  and  cook  slowly  30  minutes,  stirring  occasionally.  Melt  1 
ounce  butter  in  a  small  saucepan,  add  1  tablespoonful  flour ;  cook 
and  stir  3  minutes;  then  add  1  pint  of  the  giblet  broth,  cook  3 
minutes ;  strain,  add  it  to  the  chicken,  and  boil  till  tender.  Five 
minutes  before  serving  add  the  juice  of  Yg  lemon,  boil  3  minutes ; 
add  Ya  cupful  cream  or  2  tablespoonfuls  unsweetened  condensed 
milk.  In  the  meantime  fry  6  small  slices  of  bread  in  butter  to  a 
fine  brown  color;  scald  6  tomatoes  in  boiling  water,  remove  the 
skins,  and  cut  each  tomato  in  half  ;  take  each  half  separately  in  the 
hand  and  squeeze  it  lightly,  so  as  to  press  out  the  water ;  then  lay 
them  in  a  baking  pan  ;  pour  1  ounce  melted  butter  over  the  toma- 
toes ;  season  with  1  even  teaspoonful  salt  and  Y*  teaspoonful  pep- 
per, place  the  pan  in  a  hot  oven  and  bake  10  minutes,  basting  fre- 
quently with  their  own  gravy.  When  the  chicken  is  done  arrange 
it  nicely  on  a  warm  dish,  lay  the  fried  bread  and  tomatoes  in  a  circle 
around  the  dish,  and  serve. 

Cliicken  Saute. ‚Äî Select  a  young  chicken  weighing  from  2Y2 
to  3  pounds ;  singe,  draw,  and  wash  it  in  cold  water ;  cut  it  into  8 
pieces.  Put  the  feet  for  1  minute  into  boiling  water,  then  take  them 
out  and  remove  the  skin  ;  place  them  with  the  neck  and  giblets  in 
a  saucepan  over  the  fire ;  cover  with  cold  water ;  add  Y2  teaspoonful 
salt,  and  when  it  boils  add  a  bouquet  and  1  onion  ;  cover  and  cook  1 
hour ;  then  strain  the  broth.  Season  the  chicken  with  1  even  table- 
spoonful  salt  and  1  even  teaspoonful  pepper.  Melt  2  ounces  but- 
ter in  a  saucepan,  put  in  the  chicken  pieces ;  cover,  and  cook  over  a 
moderate  fire  20  minutes,  turning  the  pieces  frequently  with  a  fork. 
Melt  in  a  small  saucepan  Ys  ounce  butter,  add  Ys  tablespoonful 
flour,  stir  and  cook  3  minutes ;  then  add  Y2  pi^t  of  the  above  giblet 
broth  and  1  gill  of  mushroom  liquor ;  boil  3  minutes  and  add  it  to 
the  chicken ;  add  1  tablespoonful  lemon  juice,  cover  and  cook  till 
done.     Serve  witli  potato  chateau  and  Brussels  sprouts,  or  creamed 


360  POULTRY. 

Chicken  a  la  Baltimore. ‚Äî Procure  a  nice  plump  young  chicken 
of  3  pounds,  singe,  draw,  and  wash  it ;  cut  it  into  8  pieces ;  wipe  them 
dry,  and  season  with  1  even  tablespoonful  salt  and  1  even  teaspoon- 
f  ul  pepper ;  rub  the  seasoning  over  each  piece ;  then  dust  them  with 
flour;  have  1  well-beaten  egg  in  a  soupplate,  dip  each  piece  of 
chicken  into  the  beaten  egg,  and  roll  in  fresh  grated  bread  crumbs ; 
lay  the  chicken  in  a  thickly  buttered  pan,  pour  over  1  ounce  melted 
butter,  cover  with  buttered  paper ;  place  the  pan  in  a  medium-hot 
oven  and  bake  45  minutes,  or  until  done.  Put  the  chicken  feet  for 
1  minute  into  boiling  water ;  then  take  them  out,  remove  the  skin ; 
put  the  feet,  neck,  and  giblets  in  a  saucepan,  cover  with  cold  water ; 
add  Y2  teaspoonful  salt ;  as  soon  as  it  boils  add  a  small  bouquet  and 
1  small  onion  ;  cover  and  cook  1  hour  ;  then  strain  the  broth.    Melt 

1  ounce  butter  in  a  saucepan ;  add  1  heaping  tablespoonful  flour, 
stir  and  cook  2  minutes  ;  then  add  %  pint  of  the  above-mentioned 
broth ;  season  with  Yg  even  teaspoonful  salt,  Y4  teaspoonful  nutmeg ; 
boil  5  minutes;  then  draw  the  saucepan  to  side  of  stove;  mix  the 
yolks  of  2  eggs  with  Ys  cupful  cream,  and  add  it  slowly  to  the 
sauce ;  lastly,  1  tablespoonful  lemon  juice  ;  strain  the  sauce  on  to  a 
hot  dish,  lay  the  chicken  pieces  over  the  sauce,  and  garnish  with 
mock  oysters,  prepared  as  follows :  Put  Y2  pint  of  canned  corn  or 
fresh  green  corn   cut  from  the  cob  in  a  bowl;  add  the  yolks  of 

2  eggs,  Y4  teaspoonful  salt,  2  tablespoonfuls  flour,  and  the  whites 
beaten  to  a  stiff  froth ;  place  a  frying  pan  with  Ys  tablespoonful 
butter  and  the  same  of  lard  over  the  fire ;  when  hot,  put  with  a 
spoon  small  portions  from  the  corn  mixture  into  the  hot  fat,  in 
the  shape  of  an  oyster ;  fry  light  brown  on  both  sides ;  then  lay 
them  in  a  circle  around  the  dish  of  the  chicken,  with  slices  of 
broiled  bacon,  and  serve  with  potato  puree. 

Chicken  Saute  a  I'Hongroise. ‚Äî Singe,  draw,  and  wash  a 
young  chicken  SYs  pounds  in  weight ;  cut  it  into  8  pieces ;  season 
with  1  even  tablespoonful  salt  and  1  even  teaspoonful  pepper.  Put 
the  feet  for  1  minute  into  boiling  water,  remove  and  free  them 
from  their  skin  and  nails  ;  then  place  the  feet,  neck,  and  giblets  in 


POULTRY.  361 

a  saucepan,  cover  with  cold  water  ;  add  Yg  teaspoonful  salt ;  as  soon 
as  it  boils  add  1  medium-sized  onion  and  a  small  bouquet ;  cover 
and  cook  1  hour ;  strain  the  broth.  Place  a  saucepan  with  lYg 
ounces  butter  over  the  fire ;  add  1  fine-minced  onion,  cook  5  min- 
utes without  browning ;  then  add  the  chicken  ;  cover  and  cook 
gently  30  minutes  ;  turn  it  often  with  a  fork.  Melt  in  a  small 
saucepan  1  tablespoonful  butter ;  add  1  heaping  tablespoonful  flour, 
stir  and  cook  2  minutes ;  add  1  pint  of  the  giblet  broth,  cook  5 
minutes ;  then  add  the  sauce  to  the  chicken,  continue  to  cook 
slowly  till  done.  Ten  minutes  before  serving  remove  the  fat  from 
the  chicken  gravy,  add  Y2  cupful  cream  ;  cook  3  minutes.  Arrange 
the  chicken  on  a  hot  dish,  strain  the  gravy  over  it,  cut  4  slices  of 
buttered  toast  into  3-cornered  pieces,  and  lay  them  in  a  circle  around 
the  edge  of  dish ;  put  small  sprigs  of  green  parsley  between  the 
pieces  of  toast ;  sprinkle  1  fine-chopped  hard-boiled  egg  over  the 
whole,  and  serve. 

Chicken  Fricassee  a  L'Americaine. ‚Äî Cut  a  well-cleaned 
chicken  of  3  or  4  pounds  into  10  pieces ;  place  them  in  a  sauce- 
pan, cover  with  boiling  water ;  add  4  ounces  salt  pork  cut  into 
slices,  Y2  tablespoonful  salt,  cover  and  boil  till  tender.  Shortly  be- 
fore serving,  mix  1  tablespoonful  butter  with  1  tablespoonful  flour ; 
add  a  little  of  the  chicken  broth  to  the  butter  and  flour  ;  then  add 
it  to  the  chicken,  cook  10  minutes,  and  serve.  Or  lay  6  slices  of 
toast  on  a  hot  dish,  and  pour  the  fricassee  over  it. 

Chicken  Fricassee  a  L'Alleraande.‚Äî Clean,  wash,  and  cut  a 
nice  plump  chicken  of  3  pounds  into  8  pieces ;  season  with  1  even 
tablespoonful  salt,  and  1  even  teaspoonful  pepper  ;  place  a  saucepan 
with  2  ounces  butter  over  the  fire,  put  in  the  chicken ;  cover  and 
cook  20  minutes,  stirring  the  chicken  several  times  during  that 
time ;  add  sufficient  boiling  water  to  cover  the  chicken,  also  2 
onions  and  a  bouquet,  and  cook  till  tender.  Twenty  minutes  before 
serving,  melt  2  ounces  butter  in  a  saucepan,  add  2  heaping  table- 
spoonfuls  flour,  stir  and  cook  3  minutes ;  then  add  1  quart  of  the 


362  POULTRY. 

strained  chicken  broth  and  Ys  pint  of  canned  mushrooms,  cook  10 
minutes  ;  mix  the  yolk  of  3  eggs  with  2  tablespoonfuls  lemon  juice, 
and  add  it  to  the  sauce  ;  add  3  tablespoonfuls  cream  ;  remove  from 
the  fire  ;  arrange  the  chicken  on  a  hot  dish,  pour  over  the  sauce,  and 
garnish  with  nudle  timbales,  or  farina  dumplings. 

Chicken,  Boned. ‚Äî Singe,  wash,  and  dry  neatly  a  fine  young 
plump  chicken ;  cut  off  the  feet  close  to  the  first  joint,  also  the 
wings ;  cut  off  the  neck  close  to  the  body ;  then  make  an  incision 
along  the  back,  cutting  the  skin  through  to  the  bone  ;  begin  boning 
from  the  neck  down  toward  the  breast,  being  careful  not  to  tear  the 
skin  ;  then  bone  the  thighs  and  legs  so  that  the  skeleton  is  separated 
entirely  from  the  meat.  Clean  the  skeleton  and  giblets,  then  set 
aside.  Spread  the  chicken  out  on  a  napkin,  the  skin  toward  the 
napkin,  and  with  a  sharp  knife  cut  away  even  slices  from  the  breast 
and  lay  them  on  the  thin  parts,  so  that  the  chicken  has  an  even 
thickness  all  over  ;  draw  the  wings  and  legs  inside  ;  season  with  1 
even  tablespoonful  salt,  1  even  teaspoonful  pepper,  and  the  juice  of 

1  lemon ;  then  prepare  the  following  forcemeat :  Mix  1  pound  of 
fine-choj)ped  veal  with  1  pound  fine-chopped  fresh  pork,  Y4  pound 
of  fine-minced  larding  pork,  1  even  tablespoonful  salt,  1  even  tea- 
spoonful  white  pepper,  Y4  teaspoonful  grated  nutmeg,  Y4  pound 
of  beef  tongue  cut  dice  shape,  Y2  box  truffles  cut  the  same  way,  and 
4  fine-cut  mushrooms ;  mix  all  well  together ;  place  the  forcemeat 
right  in  the  center  of  the  chicken,  draw  the  2  backs  together,  sew 
it  up ;  roll  it  in  a  napkin,  and  tie  with  a  tape  on  both  ends,  and 
then  in  the  middle.  Place  the  bones  and  giblets  of  the  chicken  in 
a  soup  kettle  over  the  fire  ;  cover  with  cold  water ;  add  1  even  table- 
spoonful salt,  and  when  it  boils  add  the  chicken,  2  onions,  a  bou- 
quet, and  a  small  carrot ;  cover  and  cook  2  hours.  When  done 
remove  the  chicken,  cut  the  strings,  roll  it  over  again  and  tie  tightly 
on  both  ends  as  before,  and  put  it  under  a  light  weight.  (By  put- 
ting it  on  a  dish,  cover  with  a  board  the  size  of  the  chicken,  put  on 

2  fiat  irons,  and  let  it  remain  till  cold.)     Strain  the  broth  through 


POULTRY.  363 

a  napkin,  remove  all  the  fat ;  soak  2  ounces  of  Kxox's  gelatin  in 

1  cupful  cold  water  5  minutes,  add  it  to  3  pints  chicken  broth ; 
beat  the  whites  of  2  eggs  to  a  froth,  add  the  juice  of  2  lemons,  stir 
it  into  the  chicken  broth,  boil  and  stir  constantly  5  minutes ;  draw 
to  side  of  stove,  let  stand  5  minutes ;  then  strain  and  put  into  a 
form.  When  ready  to  serve,  cut  the  chicken  into  slices,  arrange 
them  neatly  on  a  dish  ;  cut  the  jelly  into  small  pieces,  and  lay  it 
around  the  meat.  Serve  with  remoulade  sauce.  The  jelly  may  be 
put  into  shallow  tin  pans,  and  when  firm  cut  into  fancy  shapes,  like 
half  moons,  leaves,  and  stars. 

Chicken  Fricassee  with  Dumplings. ‚Äî Cut  a  well-cleaned 
chicken  of  3  or  4  pounds  into  10  pieces  and  place  in  a  saucepan  ; 
add  1  even  tablespoonful  salt,  1  even  teaspoonful  pepper,  2  onions, 
cover  with  boiling  water,  and  cook  till  tender ;  then  mix  1  table- 
spoonful  flour  with  1  ounce  butter,  and  add  it  to  the  fricassee. 
Ten  minutes  before  serving  mix  1  pint  of  prepared  flour  with  1  tea- 
spoonful  butter,  1  gill  of  milk,  2  whole  eggs  and  1  yolk  into  a  stiff 
batter  ;  cut  with  a  tablespoon  small  portions  from  the  batter,  drop 
them  into  the  fricassee,  cover  and  boil  6  minutes  ;  then  remove  in- 
stantly the  saucepan  to  side  of  stove,  where  they  stop  boiling.  In 
serving  arrange  the  chicken  on  a  warm  dish,  and  lay  the  dumplings 
in  a  circle  around  it.  Sprinkle  1  tablespoonful  fine-chopped  parsley 
over  the  whole,  and  serve.  The  batter  will  make  12  good-sized 
dumplings. 

Chicken  Fricassee,  Plain. ‚Äî Cut  a  well-cleaned  chicken  of  3 
or  4  pounds  into  10  pieces  ;  place  in  a  saucepan,  cover  with  boiling 
water;  add  1  even  tablespoonful  salt;  cover  and  cook  till  tender, 
which  will  take  from  1  to  3  hours,  according  to  the  age  of  the 
chicken.     Shortly  before  serving,  mix  2  tablespoonfuls  flour  with 

2  ounces  butter  to  a  paste ;   add  a  little  of  the  chicken  broth  to 

the  butter  and  flour  ;  then  add  all  to  the  fricassee,  cook  10  minutes, 

and  serve  with  mashed  potatoes,  creamed  corn,  succotash,  or  creamed 

beans. 

24 


364  POULTRY. 

Chicken  Fricassee  with  Forcement  Balls.‚Äî Cut  a  well- 
cleaned  chicken  of  3  or  4  pounds  into  10  pieces  ;  place  in  a  sauce- 
pan ;  cover  with  boiling  water ;  add  3  onions,  a  bouquet,  1  even 
tablespoonful  salt,  1  even  teaspoonful  pepper ;  cover  and  cook  till 
tender.  Melt  2  ounces  butter  in  a  saucepan,  add  2  tablespoonfuls 
flour ;  stir  and  cook  3  minutes  ;  strain  the  broth  from  the  chicken, 
add  it  to  the  flour  and  butter,  cook  10  minutes ;  taste,  and,  if  neces- 
sary, add  more  salt.  Arrange  the  chicken  on  a  hot  dish,  pour  over 
the  sauce,  and  lay  small  cooked  veal  or  beef  forcemeat  balls  in  clus- 
ters around  it. 

Chicken  with  Rice. ‚Äî After  cleaning  a  chicken  of  4  pounds 
cut  it  into  10  pieces  and  place  in  a  saucepan ;  cover  with  boiling 
water,  carefully  remove  any  scum  that  rises ;  then  add  1  tablespoon- 
ful salt,  Y4  teaspoonful  pepper,  2  onions,  and  a  bouquet ;  cover  and 
boil  till  half  done.  At  the  same  time  place  Yg  pound  well-washed 
rice  in  a  saucepan,  cover  with  boiling  water,  let  it  boil  5  minutes ; 
then  drain  the  rice  in  a  sieve,  rinse  off  with  fresh  boiling  water ;  add 
the  rice  to  the  chicken,  and  boil  gently  till  done.  When  ready  to 
serve  remove  the  bouquet,  arrange  the  chicken  and  rice  on  a  long 
dish,  and  serve. 

Chicken  Curry. ‚Äî Clean,  wash,  and  cut  a  nice  plump  chicken 
of  3V2  pounds  into  10  pieces  ;  place  in  a  saucepan  ;  cover  with  boil- 
ing water ;  add  1  tablespoonful  salt,  Yg  teaspoonful  pepper,  a  bou- 
quet, and  2  medium-sized  white  onions ;  cover  and  cook  till  tender. 
Then  melt  2  ounces  butter  in  a  saucepan ;  add  2  tablespoonfuls  flour, 
stir  and  cook  3  minutes  ;  add  1  tablespoonful  curry  powder,  mix  it 
well  with  the  butter  and  flour ;  then  strain  the  chicken  broth  ;  add  it 
to  the  butter  and  flour,  stir  and  cook  till  smooth.  Mix  the  yolks  of  2 
eggs  with  1  tablespoonful  lemon  juice,  add  it  to  the  sauce.  Arrange 
the  chicken  on  a  hot  dish ;  pour  over  the  sauce,  and  lay  a  border  of 
rice  around  it,  or  garnish  with  rice  timbales. 

Pillau  of  Chicken  a  I'Espagnole.‚Äî Divide  a  well-cleaned 
young  chicken  of  2Yg  pounds  into  10  parts;  season  with  1  even 


POULTRY.  365 

tablespoonful  salt;  place  a  saucepan  over  the  fire  with  2  ounces 
butter,  add  1  fine-chopped  onion,  Yg  clove  of  bruised  garlic,  1  fine- 
chopped  green  pepper  without  the  seeds ;  cook  5  minutes  without 
browning ;  put  in  the  chicken,  cover  and  cook  15  minutes,  stirring 
it  frequently  ;  then  add  Yg  pint  of  canned  tomatoes,  or  2  fresh  to- 
matoes, 12  fine-cut  canned  mushrooms,  and  IY2  pint  of  white  broth 
or  boiling  water.  Set  a  saucepan  with  Y2  pound  of  well-washed  rice 
over  the  fire  ;  cover  with  boiling  water,  and  cook  5  minutes ;  then 
drain  and  rinse  the  rice  olf  with  cold  water ;  add  it  to  the  chicken 
with  a  little  saffron,  and  cook  slowly  till  done.  Shortly  before  serving, 
add  Ys  cupful  grated  Parmesan  cheese,  cook  2  minutes ;  then  serve. 

Chicken  a  la  Creme. ‚Äî Select  a  nice  young  chicken  of  2Y2 
pounds ;  clean  and  wash  it ;  cut  it  into  10  pieces ;  season  with  1 
teaspoonful  salt,  Y4  teaspoonf  ul  white  pepper ;  place  with  1  ounce  but- 
ter in  a  saucepan  over  the  fire  ;  add  the  Juice  of  Ys  lemon,  cover  and 
cook  10  minutes ;  then  add  1  pint  of  boiling  water  and  1  onion, 
cook  slowly  till  done ;  shortly  before  serving  lay  the  chicken  on  a 
hot  dish  ;  remove  the  fat  from  the  broth ;  mix  Ys  pint  cream  with 
the  yolks  of  3  eggs,  and  add  it  to  the  chicken  broth ;  let  it  remain 
over  the  fire  till  nearly  boiling,  then  remove  and  strain  it  over  the 
chicken  ;  garnish  with  rice  timbales. 

Fricassee  de  Poulets  a  la  Toulouse.‚Äî Cut  a  fine,  well- 
cleaned  young  chicken  of  2Y2  or  3  pounds  into  10  pieces ;  put  them 
into  a  large  saucepan  of  boiling  water  for  3  minutes  ;  then  drain  in 
a  colander  and  instantly  plunge  into  cold  water,  letting  them  re- 
main 5  minutes ;  take  out  the  chicken,  place  it  in  a  clean  saucepan 
over  the  fire,  cover  with  boiling  water ;  add  1  tablespoonful  salt,  2 
white  onions,  and  a  bouquet,  cover,  and  boil  slowly  till  tender; 
drain  off  the  broth  and  strain  it.  Melt  2  ounces  butter  in  a  sauce- 
pan, add  2  heaping  tablespoonf uls  flour,  stir  and  cook  2  minutes ; 
add  the  chicken  broth  and  Y2  can  of  mushrooms,  cook  15  minutes ; 
then  take  out  the  mushrooms,  remove  all  the  fat  from  the 
sauce ;    taste,   if  necessary   add  more  salt.      Mix   the  yolks  of  3 


366  POULTRY. 

eggs  with  Y2  pint  cream,  add  it  slowly  to  the  gravy,  and  lastly 
the  juice  of  Y2  lemon.  Arrange  the  chicken  on  a  hot  dish,  pour 
over  the  gravy,  lay  the  mushrooms  in  clusters  around  it,  and  arrange 
with  small  croutons  in  a  circle  around  the  dish  with  sprigs  of  curled 
parsley  between  them. 

Chicken,  Potted. ‚Äî Select  a  fine  young  chicken  of  3  or  4 
pounds  in  weight ;  singe,  draw,  and  wash  it  in  cold  water ;  wipe  it 
dry ;  season  with  1  tablespoonf  ul  salt,  Yg  teaspoonf  ul  pepper ;  rub  the 
seasoning  inside  and  outside  all  over  the  chicken,  bend  the  wings 
backward,  and  tie  a  string  around  the  body.  Place  a  saucepan 
large  enough  to  hold  the  chicken  with  4  ounces  fine-cut  larding 
pork  over  the  fire ;  fry  light  brown  ;  then  add  2  ounces  butter  and 
the  chicken ;  turn  the  chicken  frequently  with  a  fork  until  it  has 
obtained  a  light-brown  color  all  around  ;  then  add  Y2  piiit  of  giblet 
broth  (described  below) ;  cover  and  cook  slowly  until  done ;  if  the 
gravy  boils  away  add  more  broth,  but  only  a  little  at  a  time. 
Shortly  before  serving  lay  the  chicken  on  a  warm  dish ;  remove  the 
string,  and  set  it  in  a  warm  place.  Take  the  giblets  from  the  broth 
and  chop  them  fine ;  remove  the  fat  from  the  gravy.  Mix  1  table- 
spoonful  cornstarch  with  1  gill  of  cold  water,  add  it  to  the  gravy, 
stir  and  cook  2  minutes ;  then  add  sufficient  giblet  broth  to  make  a 
creamy  sauce,  cook  5  minutes ;  strain,  and  add  the  chopped  giblets ; 
garnish  the  chicken  with  bread  crolitons,  and  serve  with  browned 
sweet  potatoes,  potato  puree,  and  compote  of  apples. 

Giblet  Broth. ‚Äî Put  the  chicken  feet  for  1  minute  into  boiling 
water ;  take  them  out,  remove  the  skin  and  nails,  and  place  them 
with  the  neck  and  giblets  in  a  saucepan  over  the  fire ;  cover  with 
cold  water ;  add  Ys  teaspoonf  ul  salt ;  when  it  boils,  add  1  small 
onion,  and  boil  1  hour  longer ;  then  use  as  directed  above.  A  good 
plan  is  to  make  3  pints  of  soup  of  the  giblets,  and  use  either  meat 
broth  or  water  for  the  chicken.     (See  Giblet  Soup.) 

Chicken,  Roasted. ‚Äî Select  a  fine  young  and  dry-picked 
chicken ;  singe,  draw,  and  wash  it  in  cold  water,  wipe  it  dry ;  season 


POULTRY.  367 

with  1  even  tablespooiiful  salt ;  bend  the  wings  backward,  put  a 
skewer  through  the  thigh  and  body,  and  place  the  chicken  in  a 
roasting  pan ;  spread  over  it  1  ounce  butter,  and  lay  3  thin  slices  of 
larding  pork  over  the  breast ;  set  the  pan  in  a  medium-hot  oven, 
and  roast  until  the  chicken  has  become  of  a  fine  brown  color  all  over, 
basting  frequently  with  its  own  gravy ;  then  add  Yg  cupful  giblet 
broth  (mentioned  below)  ;  continue  the  roasting  and  basting  until 
the  chicken  is  done ;  if  the  gravy  gets  too  brown  add  a  little  more 
broth  (care  must  be  taken  not  to  have  the  oven  too  hot).  Place  the 
chicken  feet  1  minute  in  boiling  water;  remove  the  skin  and  nails, 
place  the  feet,  neck,  and  giblets  in  a  saucepan,  cover  with  cold 
water ;  add  Yg  teaspoonf  ul  salt ;  when  it  boils  add  1  onion,  cover, 
and  boil  1  hour ;  remove  the  skewer,  and  lay  the  chicken  on  a  warm 
dish ;  take  off  the  fat  from  the  gravy ;  mix  1  tablespoonf ul  corn- 
starch with  1  gill  of  cold  water,  and  add  it  to  the  gravy,  stir  and 
cook  3  minutes ;  then  strain ;  mash  the  boiled  liver  fine,  add  it  to 
the  sauce.  Serve  with  stewed  onions,  mashed  potatoes  and  turnips, 
or  with  creamed  corn,  browned  sweet  potatoes,  and  plain  boiled  or 
mashed  potatoes.  Another  way  is  to  serve  all  roasted  poultry  with 
potato,  celery,  or  lettuce  salad  and  compote. 

Roasted  Chicken   with    Grihlet    Forcemeat.‚Äî Prepare   a 

chicken  the  same  as  for  roast  chicken  with  oyster  forcemeat ;  then 
chop  the  raw  giblets  as  fine  as  possible.  Soak  Yg  pound  stale  baker's 
bread  10  minutes  in  cold  water,  inclose  it  in  a  napkin,  and  press 
the  water  out ;  place  a  saucepan  with  1  ounce  butter  over  the  fire ; 
add  1  fine-chopped  onion ;  cook  5  minutes  without  browning ;  then 
add  the  bread,  stir  and  cook  6  minutes ;  remove  from  the  fire,  and  when 
cold  add  the  chopped  giblets,  2  whole  eggs,  1  teaspoonf  ul  salt,  Ys  even 
teaspoonful  pepper,  Yg  teaspoonful  grated  nutmeg,  and  1  teaspooful 
thyme ;  mix  all  well  together ;  fill  the  body  and  crop  of  the  chicken, 
sew  it  up,  truss  it  nicely ;  finish  the  same  as  in  foregoing  recipe. 

Roast  Chicken  with  Oyster  Forcemeat. ‚Äî Procure  a  nice 
plump  chicken  weighing  from  3  to  4  pounds ;   singe,  draw,  and 


368  POULTRY. 

wash  it  in  cold  water ;  wipe  it  dry  with  a  towel ;  cut  off  the  feet 
from  the  first  joint  of  the  leg,  make  an  incision  just  under  the 
thigh,  and  put  the  legs  inside  the  chicken.  Detach  the  skin  as 
much  as  possible  from  the  breast,  and  put  a  layer  of  oyster  force- 
meat (described  below)  over  the  breast  under  the  loosened  skin ; 
fill  the  body  with  the  same  forcemeat.  Sew  the  chicken  up,  truss 
it  nicely,  rub  over  it  1  even  tablespoonful  salt,  spread  over  it  1 
tablespoonful  butter,  and  lay  a  few  thin  slices  of  larding  pork  over 
the  breast;  place  the  chicken  in  a  roasting  pan  in  a  medium- 
;hot  oven ;  roast  until  it  has  obtained  a  fine  brown  color  all 
over,  turning  and  basting  it  frequently ;  then  add  Yg  cupful  broth 
from  the  giblets,  which  should  be  boiled  in  water,  with  ]  small 
onion  and  a  little  salt ;  continue  to  roast  and  baste  till  done. 
Shortly  before  serving  lay  the  chicken  on  a  hot  dish,  take  out  the 
threads  and  skewer,  remove  the  fat  from  the  gravy ;  mix  Yg  table- 
spoonful cornstarch  with  1  gill  of  cold  water,  add  it  to  the  gravy, 
stir  and  cook  3  minutes ;  add  sufiicient  broth  from  the  giblets  to 
make  a  creamy  sauce,  boil  3  minutes  ;  then  strain,  and  serve. 

Oyster  Forcemeat. ‚Äî One  and  a  half  cupful  rolled  crackers,  10 
large  oysters  chopped  fine,  1  cupful  oyster  liquor,  the  yolk  of  1  egg, 
1  whole  egg,  1  even  teaspoonful  salt,  Y2  even  teaspoonful  pepper,  1 
ounce  melted  butter,  and  Y2  tablespoonful  fine-chopped  parsley; 
mix  all  together  and  use  as  directed. 

Boasted  Chicken  with  Bread  Dressing.‚Äî Place  a  saucepan 
with  2  ounces  butter  over  the  fire ;  add  3  tablespoonfuls  fine-minced 
onion ;  cook  5  minutes  without  browning ;  then  add  Y2  pound  of 
baker's  bread  previously  soaked  in  cold  water  and  pressed  out ;  stir 
and  cook  6  minutes ;  remove  from  fire ;  add  1  even  teaspoonful  salt, 
Y4  teaspoonful  pepper,  1  teaspoonful  thyme,  and  2  eggs ;  mix  all 
together  ;  fill  the  chicken  with  this,  and  finish  the  same  as  in  fore- 
going recipe.  Another  way  is  to  remove  the  crust  from  a  small  loaf 
of  stale  bread  and  crumble  the  white  part  all  up  into  small  crumbs ; 
season  with  1  even  teaspoonful  salt,  Y2  even  teaspoonful  pepper, 


POULTRY.  369 

1  teaspoonful  thyme,  2  ounces  melted  butter,  1  egg,  and  1  table- 
spoonful  grated  onion  ;  mix  all  together,  and  use.  The  grated 
onion  may  be  omitted  if  the  flavor  is  not  liked.  Chickens  may  be 
filled  wtih  sausage  forcemeat,  chestnut,  or  veal  forcemeat. 

Casserole  of  Chicken. ‚Äî Place  a  saucepan  with  iVg  pound  of 
well-washed  rice  over  the  fire,  cover  with  cold  water  and  cook  3 
minutes ;  then  drain  it  in  a  sieve  and  rinse  off  with  cold  water  ;  re- 
turn the  rice  to  the  saucepan,  cover  with  3  pints  of  water ;  add  1 
even  tablespoonf  ul  salt  and  3  ounces  of  butter ;  cook  until  the  rice  is 
tender,  stirring  often ;  then  mash  it  fine  with  a  wooden  spoon  and 
add  the  yolks  of  4  eggs.  Butter  a  round  deep  tin  mold,  put  in  the 
rice,  smooth  the  surface  with  a  knife,  and  set  in  a  cool  place ;  when 
perfectly  cold  set  the  mold  for  1  minute  in  hot  water,  and  turn 
the  rice  into  a  round  dish ;  brush  the  whole  over  with  melted  butter, 
place  it  in  a  hot  oven,  and  bake  20  minutes  without  letting  the  rice 
get  brown.  Shortly  before  serving,  remove  the  inside  of  the  casserole, 
leaving  lYg  inch  wall  all  around;  fill  in  the  prepared  chicken 
mentioned  below ;  put  some  of  the  sauce  over  it,  and  serve  the  re- 
mainder in  a  sauce  bowl.  Cut  a  well-cleaned  young  chicken  into 
10  pieces ;  season  with  1  even  tablespoonful  salt,  Yg  teaspoonful 
pepper ;  fry  1  fine-chopped  white  onion  in  2  ounces  of  butter  a  few 
minutes  without  browning;  add  the  chicken  and  the  juice  of  Vg 
lemon ;  cook  30  minutes.  In  the  meantime  melt  1  tablespoonful 
butter  in  a  saucepan ;  add  1  heaping  tablespoonful  flour,  stir  and 
cook  a  few  minutes ;  add  1  pint  boiling  milk,  1  even  teaspoonful 
salt,  Y2  cupful  mushroom  liquor,  and  a  bouquet ;  cook  10  minutes  ; 
strain ;  add  the  sauce  to  the  chicken,  cook  20  minutes,  and  fill  it 
into  the  casserole. 

Casserole  au  Riz  Garnee  d'un  Emince  de  Tolaille. ‚Äî Place 
1  pound  of  well- washed  rice  in  a  saucepan  over  the  fire,  cover  with 
cold  water,  boil  5  minutes  ;  then  drain  in  a  sieve,  rinse  off  with  cold 
water ;  put  the  rice  into  a  double  boiler,  add  1  quart  of  chicken 
broth  and  1  teaspoonful  salt,  cook  until  the  kernels  are  tender,  but 


370  POULTRY. 

not  broken.  In  the  meantime  melt  Ya  ounce  butter  ;  add  Vg  table- 
spoonful  flour,  stir  and  cook  a  few  minutes ;  add  Yg  cupful  milk, 
stir  and  cook  3  minutes ;  add  it  to  the  rice,  also  1  ounce  butter, 
mix  it  carefully.  Butter  a  low  pie  mold,  one  with  hinges  ;  set  it  on 
a  round  dish  ;  fill  the  form  Ys  fwH  of  rice,  press  it  against  the  sides 
of  the  form,  and  on  the  plate  on  which  the  form  stands ;  then  put 
a  small  form  in  the  center,  fill  up  the  space  between  the  2  forms 
with  rice,  and  set  it  for  10  minutes  in  a  warm  place.  Then  remove 
the  outside  form  and  the  small  form  from  the  inside;  glaze  the 
casserole  with  light  glaze,  fill  the  center  with  a  chicken  ragout  (de- 
scribed below) ;  lay  a  border  of  truffles  around  and  serve. 

Chicken  Ragout. ‚Äî Eemove  the  breasts  from  3  young  plump 
chickens,  season  with  salt  and  a  little  pepper ;  place  them  in  a 
round  pan  with  2  ounces  butter,  cover  with  buttered  paper ;  set 
them  in  a  medium-hot  oven  and  roast  from  12  to  15  minutes.  Cut 
off  the  legs  aud  second  joints  from  the  chickens  and  reserve  them 
for  other  purposes ;  place  the  well-cleaned  bodies  in  a  saucepan, 
cover  with  cold  water,  and  let  it  boil  over  a  moderate  fire  3  minutes ; 
then  drain  in  a  sieve  and  rinse  off  with  cold  water.  Cut  the  bodies 
into  small  pieces,  return  them  to  the  saucepan,  cover  with  fresh 
cold  water,  and  set  over  the  fire ;  when  boiling,  add  1  teaspoonful 
salt,  1  white  onion,  and  a  bouquet ;  boil  1  hour,  then  strain  the 
broth.  When  the  chicken  breasts  are  done,  remove  and  cut  them 
into  small  pieces ;  add  to  the  butter  in  which  the  chicken  breasts 
were  cooked  1  heaping  tablespoonful  flour,  stir  and  cook  2  min- 
utes ;  then  add  1  pint  of  the  chicken  broth,  cook  5  minutes  ;  strain 
the  sauce  into  a  clean  saucepan,  add  Ys  pi^t  of  small  mushrooms,  1 
even  teaspoonful  salt,  cook  10  minutes ;  add  Ys  cupful  cream  and 
the  chicken  meat,  let  it  remain  for  a  few  minutes  over  the  fire,  and 
finish  as  directed  above. 

Chicken  Fillets‚Äî How  to  prepare  for  Entrees.‚Äî Select 
young  plump  chickens,  singe,  draw,  and  wash  them  ;  remove  the 
skin  from  the  breasts  so  that  the  fillets  lay  bare,  make  an  incision  on 


POULTRY.  371 

top  the  breastbone  from  end  to  end,  then  with  a  small  knife  cut  ofE 
the  entire  breast  from  each  side,  including  the  small  wing  bone. 
Under  each  breast  will  be  found  a  small  fillet  which  is  called  the  mig- 
non  ;  carefully  remove  it,  pare  off  with  a  small  knife  the  thin  white 
skin  which  covers  the  fillets  and  mignon,  lay  them  in  a  buttered  pan, 
cover  with  buttered  paper,  and  set  in  a  cool  place  till  wanted. 

Chicken  Fillets  a  la  Toulouse. ‚Äî Remove  the  breasts  from  3 
young  plump  chickens  as  directed  in  foregoing  recipe.  Mix  1  table- 
spoonful  salt  with  Ya  teaspoonful  white  pepper,  distribute  it  evenly 
over  the  fillets  and  mignous ;  make  6  slanting  incisions  on  top  of 
each  mignon,  then  cut  4  truffles  into  slices,  cut  each  slice  into  3 
strips  ;  insert  in  each  incision  of  the  mignon  a  strip  of  truffle  ;  lay 
1  mignon  on  top  of  each  fillet  lengthwise.  Place  a  pan  large 
enough  to  hold  the  fillets  with  4  ounces  of  butter  over  the  fire  ;  as 
soon  as  melted  remove  it,  put  in  the  fillets,  and  baste  them  with  the 
melted  butter  ;  then  cover  with  buttered  paper,  place  the  pan  in  a 
medium-hot  oven,  and  bake  about  15  minutes.  In  the  meantime 
place  a  saucepan  with  2  tablespoonfuls  fine-chopped  onion  and  1 
ounce  butter  over  the  fire,  cook  5  minutes ;  add  1  heaping  table- 
spoonful  flour,  stir,  and  cook  3  minutes ;  add  1  pint  chicken  broth 
prepared  from  the  carcasses  of  the  chickens  and  1  even  tablespoon- 
ful  salt,  12  whole  peppers,  and  1  bay  leaf  ;  cook  slowly  10  minutes  ; 
then  strain  into  a  clean  saucepan,  add  Y2  gill  of  white  wine,  2  fine- 
sliced  truffles,  cook  3  minutes  ;  then  mix  the  yolks  of  2  eggs  with  1 
tablespoonful  lemon  juice,  add  it  to  the  sauce,  also  Yg  ounce  butter, 
stir  for  1  minute.  Pour  the  sauce  on  a  warm  dish  and  arrange  the 
fillets  over  them. 

Chicken  Fillet,  Supreme.‚Äî Prepare  the  breasts  of  3  fine 
young  chickens  as  previously  directed ;  season  the  fillets  and  min- 
gnons  with  1  tablespoonful  salt,  Ys  teaspoonful  white  pepper  evenly 
distributed,  lay  the  small  fillets  in  the  form  of  a  boat  on  top  the 
larger  fillet,  lay  them  in  a  buttered  pan,  pour  over  4  ounces  melted 
butter,  cover  with  buttered  paper,  and  set  aside  in  a  cool  place. 


372  POULTRY. 

Prepare  a  fine  chicken  forcemeat  of  the  breast  from  1  chicken, 
butter  a  border  form,  put  in  the  forcemeat,  and  place  it  also  in  a 
cool  place.  Thirty  minutes  before  serving  set  the  border  form  in 
a  pan  of  hot  water  so  that  the  water  reaches  half  way  up  the  form, 
cover  with  buttered  paper,  and  place  the  pan  in  a  hot  oven  ;  bake 
25  minutes.  Twenty  minutes  before  serving  place  the  pan  with 
the  fillets  in  a  medium-hot  oven  and  bake  from  10  to  15  minutes, 
basting  frequently.  At  the  same  time  prepare  the  supreme  sauce  as 
follows :  Place  at  the  beginning  the  carcasses  of  the  chickens  in  a 
saucepan,  cover  with  cold  water  (reserving  the  legs  and  second 
joints  for  other  purposes),  add  1  tablespoonful  salt ;  when  boiling 
add  2  onions  and  a  bouquet  and  boil  2  hours  longer,  then  strain, 
and  use  the  broth  for  soup  and  sauces.  Melt  1  ounce  butter  in  a 
saucepan,  add  1  heaping  tablespoonful  flour,  stir  and  cook  3  min- 
utes ;  then  add  lYg  cupful  chicken  broth,  cook  5  minutes ;  add  IV2 
gill  of  cream,  Yg  ounce  butter,  Y2  even  teaspoonful  salt,  cook  2 
minutes,  strain,  and  add  1  tablespoonful  lemon  juice.  When  ready 
to  serve  pour  the  butter  from  the  fillets  and  a  few  spoonfuls  supreme 
sauce  over  them,  then  turn  the  forcemeat  border  on  to  a  hot  dish, 
lay  the  fillets  on  top  of  it ;  add  3  fine-cut  truffles  to  the  sauce,  re- 
turn the  sauce  for  a  few  minutes  to  the  fire,  then  pour  it  inside  the 
forcemeat  border,  and  serve  as  an  entree. 

Fillet  of  Chicken  a  la  Maltaise.‚Äî Prepare  the  fillets  of  3 
fine  young  chickens  as  directed  before ;  lay  the  large  fillets  on  a 
board  with  the  skin  side  downward  ;  make  an  incision  in  center  of 
each  fillet  and  fill  it  with  1  tablespoonful  chicken  forcemeat ;  then 
sew  it  up.  The  forcemeat  is  prepared  from  the  mignons ;  season 
the  fillets  with  1  tablespoonful  salt  and  Y2  teaspoonful  white  pep- 
per ;  cut  2  truffles  into  6  slices,  dip  them  in  white  of  egg,  and  lay  1 
slice  in  the  center  of  each  fillet ;  put  them  in  a  buttered  pan  large 
enough  to  receive  them ;  pour  over  4  ounces  melted  butter ;  cover 
with  buttered  paper  and  set  in  a  cool  place.  In  the  meantime 
prepare  a  rice  border  as  follows :  Place  Y2  pound  well-washed  rice 
in  a  saucepan  over  the  fire ;  cover  with  cold  water ;  cook  5  minutes ; 


POULTRY.  373 

drain  in  a  sieve  and  rinse  off  with  fresh  cold  water ;  return  the  rice 
to  saucepan  again,  cover  with  1  pint  milk  ;  add  1  even  teaspoonf  ul 
salt  and  cook  till  thick  and  tender ;  then  add  1  ounce  butter  and 
the  yolks  of  3  eggs;  butter  a  border  form,  put  in  the  rice,  and 
place  it  on  a  baking  sheet  in  a  hot  oven ;  bake  10  minutes.  Fifteen 
minutes  before  serving,  place  the  pan  with  the  fillets  in  a  medium- 
hot  oven  and  bake  from  10  to  15  minutes,  basting  frequently.  At 
the  same  time  prepare  the  sauce :  Melt  1  ounce  butter  in  a  sauce- 
pan ;  add  2  tablespoonf uls  fine-chopped  onion,  1  tablespoonful 
grated  carrots,  1  ounce  of  fine-chopped  cooked  ham,  and  cook  5 
minutes ;  then  add  2  fine-chopped  mushrooms  and  1  heaping  table- 
spoonful  flour,  stir  and  cook  3  minutes ;  add  1  pint  of  chicken 
broth,  a  small  bouquet,  Yg  cupful  mushroom  liquor,  12  whole  pep- 
pers, and  cook  5  minutes;  then  remove  the  bouquet  and  cook  5 
minutes  longer ;  add  1  even  teaspoonf  ul  salt ;  then  strain.  Cut  3 
truffles  into  fine  slices,  place  them  in  a  small  saucepan  with  1  gill  of 
Madeira  or  sherry  wine  over  the  fire,  and  cook  5  minutes ;  add  this 
to  the  sauce,  also  Yg  teaspoonf  ul  beef  extract,  and  cook  a  few  min- 
utes longer.  When  ready  to  serve  turn  the  rice  on  to  a  warm  dish, 
pour  a  little  of  the  sauce  over  each  fillet ;  arrange  them  on  top  the 
rice  ;  dress  the  wing  of  each  fillet  with  a  paper  ruffle,  and  serve  with 
the  sauce  in  a  sauce  bowl. 

Chicken  Leg,  Saute. ‚Äî Place  a  saucepan  with  2  fine-chopped 
onions  and  2  ounces  butter  over  the  fire,  cook  5  minutes ;  season  the 
legs  and  thighs  of  3  chickens  with  1  tablespoonful  seasoning  salt, 
add  them  to  the  onions  and  butter,  cover  and  cook  30  minutes ; 
then  dust  over  1  heaping  tablespoonful  flour,  stir  for  a  few  minutes ; 
add  1  pint  of  chicken  or  veal  broth  ;  cook  slowly  until  the  chicken 
legs  are  done ;  add  the  juice  of  Ys  lemon ;  and  last,  add  a  few 
spoonfuls  of  cream,  if  handy ;  then  serve  on  a  hot  dish ;  garnish 
with  buttered  toast  or  croutons  or  with  mashed  potatoes. 

Chicken  Forcemeat. ‚Äî Remove  the  breasts  from  2  fine  plump 
chickens  weighing   each   about  3Y2  pounds;  free  them  from  the 


374:  POULTRY. 

skin  and  chop  fine ;  add  Yg  pound  fine-chopped  suet,  2  even  table- 
spoonfuls  salt,  1  teaspoonf  ul  nutmeg.  Place  a  saucepan  with  Yg  pint 
of  water  over  the  fire ;  add  1  ounce  butter ;  as  soon  as  it  boils  add 
Y2  pint  of  flour ;  stir  and  cook  till  it  has  formed  into  a  smooth  paste, 
and  loosens  itself  from  bottom  of  saucepan,  then  set  aside.  When 
cold  put  the  chicken  meat  and  the  paste  in  a  wooden  chopping 
bowl ;  mix  together ;  then  take  a  potato  masher  and  pound  them 
fine,  adding  by  degrees  the  yolks  of  4  eggs  and  1  whole  egg.  Place 
it  in  a  cool  place  until  wanted. 

Chicken  Souffle. ‚Äî Prepare  a  chicken  forcemeat  as  directed  in 
foregoing  recipe  ;  melt  Ys  ounce  butter  in  a  saucepan,  add  Y2  table- 
spoonful  flour ;  stir  and  cook  3  minutes ;  add  Y4  cupful  cream  or 
milk,  stir  and  cook  2  minutes  ;  then  set  aside.  When  cold  mix  the 
sauce  with  the  chicken  forcemeat,  add  the  yolks  of  3  eggs  and  3 
whites  beaten  to  a  stiff  froth.  Butter  a  plain  2-quart-timbale  form, 
lay  around  a  piece  of  white  buttered  paper  in  the  bottom,  and  dust 
the  inside  of  form  with  flour ;  fill  it  with  the  forcemeat ;  set  the 
form  in  a  pan  of  hot  water,  cover  with  buttered  paper ;  place  it  in 
a  medium-hot  oven,  and  bake  40  minutes.  In  the  meantime  pre- 
pare a  chicken  broth  from  the  carcasses  of  the  chickens  (reserving 
the  second  joints  and  legs  for  other  purposes).  Melt  2  ounces  butter 
in  a  saucepan ;  add  IY2  tablespoonful  flour,  cook  and  stir  3  min- 
utes ;  add  1  pint  of  chicken  broth,  1  even  teaspoonful  salt,  and 
cook  10  minutes ;  add  Ys  pint  cream,  cook  5  minutes ;  then  strain 
the  sauce.  Trim  and  cut  into  round  pieces  6  slices  of  boiled  beef 
tongue;  place  them  with  6  large  and  6  small  truffles  in  a  saucepan 
over  the  fire  ;  cover  them  with  the  sauce  mentioned  above,  let  them 
heat  through.  When  ready  to  serve,  turn  the  souffle  on  to  a  warm 
dish  ;  arrange  the  large  truffles  and  tongue  alternately  in  a  circle  on 
top  the  souffle  ;  cut  the  small  truffles  in  half,  and  lay  them  close  to 
the  edge  as  a  border.    Serve  the  sauce  in  a  sauce  bowl  with  the  souffle. 

Epigram  of  Chicken. ‚Äî Remove  the  breasts  from  2  young 
chickens,  each  weighing  2  pounds  and  prepare  the  fillets  as  di- 


POULTRY.  3Y5 

rected  ;  then  bone  the  thighs,  stuff  them  with  chicken  forcemeat, 
and  sew  up  ;  lay  the  thighs  in  a  saucepan  with  1  sliced  onion,  a 
bouquet,  and  a  small  carrot ;  cover  with  broth  and  cook  30  min- 
utes ;  then  remove,  lay  them  under  a  light  weight  till  cold.  Place 
the  fillets  in  a  buttered  pan,  pour  over  3  ounces  butter  ;  cover  with 
buttered  paper  ;  place  the  pan  in  an  oven,  cook  15  minutes,  basting 
frequently  with  the  butter.  When  the  thighs  are  cold  dip  them 
into  beaten  egg  and  bread  crumbs ;  fry  to  a  golden  color  in  butter. 
Arrange  them  in  a  circle  alternately  with  the  fillets  and  decorate 
the  wings.  Fill  the  center  with  a  chestnut  ragout,  prepared  as  fol- 
lows :  Boil  18  large  chestnuts  in  water  20  minutes,  then  take  them 
out ;  remove  the  shell  and  the  brown  skin.  Melt  1  ounce  butter  in 
a  saucepan ;  add  1  tablespoonful  flour  and  cook  3  minutes ;  add  1 
pint  of  chicken  broth,  1  even  teaspoonf ul  salt,  cook  5  minutes ;  add 
the  chestnuts  and  Yg  can  of  canned  mushrooms,  cook  10  minutes ; 
then  add  6  fine-sliced  truffles,  cook  3  minutes  ;  mix  the  yolks  of  3 
eggs  with  Ya  cup  cream,  add  it  to  the  ragout,  and  serve.  (Do  not 
let  it  boil  after  the  yolks  have  been  added.)  In  place  of  chestnuts, 
small  chicken  forcemeat  balls  may  be  boiled  and  added  to  the  ragout. 

Chicken  RagOtit. ‚Äî Procure  3  fine  young  chickens  each  weigh- 
ing 2Y2  pounds,  singe,  draw,  wash,  and  clean  them ;  remove  the 
breasts  and  second  joints  ;  free  the  joints  from  skin  and  bones,  then 
cut  these  and  the  breasts  into  2-inch  pieces  ;  mix  1  tablespoon- 
ful salt  with  Y2  teaspoonful  pepper  and  sprinkle  it  over  the  chicken. 
Melt  4  ounces  butter  in  a  low  saucepan,  put  in  the  chicken  ;  cover 
and  cook  till  done,  turning  it  occasionally  with  a  fork  ;  then  remove 
the  chicken  and  put  it  into  a  clean  saucepan ;  add  to  the.  gravy 
2  tablespoonfuls  fine-chopped  onions,  cook  5  minutes  ;  then  add  2 
tablespoonfuls  flour,  stir  and  cook  3  minutes ;  add  IY2  pint  of 
chicken  broth,  a  bouquet,  and  12  whole  peppers,  cook  5  minutes ; 
strain  into  a  clean  saucepan  ;  add  Y2  cupful  mushroom  liquor,  18 
small  mushrooms,  6  truffles  cut  into  slices,  cook  slowly  10  minutes ; 
then  mix  the  yolks  of  3  eggs  with  Ys  pint  of  cream  ;  draw  the  sauce- 


376  POULTRY. 

pan  to  side  of  stove,  add  the  cream  and  yolks,  and  last  2  tablespoon- 
fuls  lemon  juice  (do  not  let  it  boil  again)  ;  then  add  the  chicken  to 
the  sauce,  and  serve  either  in  a  vol-au-vent,  rice,  or  nudle  border. 
Or  serve  it  in  a  hot  dish  and  garnish  with  fleurons  or  croutons. 
Chicken  ragouts  are  also  used  for  filling  large  timbales.  (For  vol- 
au-vent,  see  my  book  Deserts  and  Salads,  recipe  730.) 

Large  Chicken  Timbale. ‚Äî Prepare  a  chicken  forcemeat  from 
the  breasts  of  3  young  chickens ;  butter  a  2-quart-mold,  decorate 
the  bottom  and  sides  with  truffles  and  red  beef  tongue  ;  fill  it  three 
quarters  full  with  the  forcemeat ;  press  the  forcemeat  on  the  sides 
and  bottom  of  form  and  fill  the  center  with  a  chicken  ragout,  pre- 
pared the  same  as  in  foregoing  recipe,  only  making  it  thicker  by 
not  adding  all  the  sauce ;  cover  the  timbale  with  the  same  force- 
meat ;  set  it  in  a  pan  of  hot  water ;  then  cover  with  thick  buttered 
paper,  and  place  the  timbale  in  a  medium-hot  oven,  and  bake  45 
minutes.  When  done,  turn  the  timbale  on  a  warm  dish,  and  serve 
with  sauce  a  I'allemande. 

Quenelles  of  Chicken  a  I'Allemande.  ‚Äî  Prepare  a  fine 
chicken  forcemeat  of  the  breast  of  a  4-pound  chicken  as  directed. 
Prepare  also  a  salpicon  a  la  Toulouse,  put  it  on  a  flat  dish,  and  set 
aside  to  cool.  Form  with  2  tablespoons  dumplings  in  the  following 
manner  :  Put  1  spoon  in  a  small  saucepan  of  boiling  water,  take  the 
other  spoon  half  full  of  forcemeat,  then  press  it  with  the  wet  spoon 
to  make  a  hollow  in  the  center,  put  into  this  1  teaspoonful  of  the 
prepared  salpicon  ;  spread  over  with  a  knife  some  forcemeat  so 
that  the  salpicon  is  inclosed  in  the  forcemeat;  lift  with  the  wet 
spoon  the  dumpling  from  the  dry  spoon,  and  lay  it  in  a  buttered 
saute  pan  ;  when  all  are  formed  in  this  way,  set  them  in  a  cool 
place.  At  the  same  time  cut  off  the  thighs  and  legs  of  the  chicken 
and  reserve  them  for  other  purposes.  Put  the  well-cleaned  feet, 
giblets,  and  the  rest  of  the  chicken  in  a  saucepan,  cover  with  cold 
water  ;  add  1  teaspoonful  salt,  and  when  it  boils,  1  onion  and  a 
bouquet ;  boil  slowly  2  hours ;  then  strain  the  broth  through  a  fine 


POULTEY.  377 

sieve.  Fifteen  minutes  before  serving,  place  the  pan  with  the 
dumplings  over  the  fire  ;  pour  through  a  funnel  into  the  pan  suf- 
ficient boiling  water  to  cover  the  dumplings ;  add  1  teaspoonful 
salt,  cover  and  let  them  simmer  (not  boil)  for  10  minutes.  Then 
prepare  the  sauce :  Melt  1  ounce  butter  in  a  saucepan,  add  1 
heaping  tablespoonful  flour,  stir  and  cook  3  minutes  ;  then  add  % 
pint  of  chicken  broth,  1  even  teaspoonful  salt,  74  teaspoonful  nut- 
meg, Y2  cupful  mushroom  liquor,  12  whole  peppers  ;  cook  slowly  10 
minutes ;  strain  the  sauce  into  a  clean  saucepan  ;  mix  the  yolks  of 

2  eggs  with  Yg  cupful  cream,  add  it  slowly  to  the  sauce,  stir  often 
for  a  few  minutes  over  the  fire  (not  letting  it  boil)  ;  add  last  1 
tablespoonful  lemon  juice.  When  ready  to  serve,  carefully  remove 
the  dumplings  with  a  skimmer,  lay  them  on  a  warm  dish,  pour 
over  the  sauce,  and  lay  a  border  of  boiled  rice  around  it;  then 
serve. 

Spring  Chicken,  Broiled. ‚Äî Select  a  nice  pair  of  young  spring 
chickens  each  one  weighing  IY4  pound ;  singe  and  split  them 
through  the  back  ;  remove  the  insides  ;  wash  the  chickens  quickly  in 
cold  water  and  wipe  dry  with  a  towel ;  brush  them  over  with  melted 
butter,  lay  on  a  hot  broiler  over  a  moderate  clear  fire,  and  broil  them 
light  brown  on  both  sides  for  about  25  minutes  ;  turn  the  chickens 

3  times  during  that  time ;  when  done,  lay  them  on  a  hot  dish.  Mix 
2  ounces  butter  with  1  even  tablespoonful  salt,  Ys  even  teaspoonful 
pepper;  spread  this  on  both  sides  all  over  the  chickens,  garnish 
with  water  cress,  and  serve  with  Saratoga  chips,  or  French  fried 
potatoes,  hot  biscuits,  buttered  toast,  or  hot  corn  bread. 

Spring  Chicken  broiled  European  Style.‚Äî Select  a  pair  of 
spring  chickens  weighing  together  2Y2  pounds  ;  singe  and  split. them 
through  the  back ;  mix  1  even  tablespoonful  salt  with  Y2  even  tea- 
spoonful pepper ;  sprinkle  this  evenly  over  the  chickens ;  bend  the 
wings  back,  crack  the  bones  between  the  first  and  second  joints, 
flatten  nicely,  brush  them  over  with  melted  butter,  and  cover  with 
grated  bread  crumbs ;  place  them  in  a  double  broiler,  and  broil  10 


378  POULTRY. 

minutes  on  each  side  over  a  moderate  fire.     Serve  on  a  warm  dish, 
and  garnish  with  potato  chateau. 

Spring  Chickens,  Hungarian  Style.‚Äî Singe,  draw,  and 
wash  2  spring  chickens  weighing  in  all  about  272  pounds ;  cut  each 
one  into  6  pieces,  season  with  1  even  tablespoonful  salt,  1  even  tea- 
spoonful  pepper.  Place  the  giblets  in  a  saucepan  over  the  fire, 
cover  with  cold  water ;  add  Yg  teaspoonf  ul  salt  and  when  it  begins  to 
boil  a  small  onion,  a  bouquet,  and  boil  40  minutes.  Set  a  saucepan 
with  1  tablespoonful  butter  over  the  fire ;  add  2  tablespoonfuls  fine- 
chopped  onion,  cook  5  minutes  without  browning ;  then  put  in  the 
chicken,  cover,  and  cook  10  minutes,  turning  the  chicken  twice  with 
a  fork.  Melt  1  tablespoonful  butter  in  a  saucepan  ;  add  1  table- 
spoonful flour,  stir  and  cook  2  minutes ;  add  Y2  pi^it  of  the  strained 
giblet  broth  and  Y2  pint  of  canned  mushrooms,  and  cook  5  minutes ; 
then  add  Y3  cupful  cream ;  pour  the  sauce  over  the  chicken,  and 
cook  till  tender.  Shortly  before  serving  add  the  juice  of  1  lemon. 
Serve  on  a  warm  dish  with  6  small  slices  of  bread  cut  into  round 
shape  and  fried  brown  in  butter. 

Spring  Chickens,  DeTilled. ‚Äî Split  a  pair  of  well-cleaned 
spring  chickens  through  the  back;  season  them  with  1  even  table- 
spoonful salt,  1  even  teaspopnful  pepper ;  crack  the  bones  between 
the  first  and  second  Joints  and  flatten  them  nicely ;  put  in  a  roast- 
ing pan  with  2  thin  slices  of  larding  pork  over  the  breast  of  each 
chicken  and  pour  2  ounces  melted  butter  over  them ;  place  the  pan 
in  a  medium-hot  oven,  cover  with  buttered  paper,  and  roast  20 
minutes,  basting  frequently  with  their  own  gravy ;  then  remove  the 
paper,  add  1  gill  of  boiling  broth,  and  roast  till  the  chickens  are 
done,  which  will  take  in  all  about  40  minutes.  Shortly  before  serv- 
ing lay  the  chickens  on  a  hot  dish,  remove  part  of  the  fat  from  the 
gravy,  add  Yg  tablespoonful  cornstarch  to  the  gravy,  stir  and  cook 
3  minutes  over  the  fire  ;  then  add  2  gills  of  broth  from  the  giblets, 
stir  and  cook  3  minutes;  strain,  and  serve  with  the  chickens;  or 
they  may  be  served  without  sauce.     Serve  with  French  fried  pota- 


POULTRY.  379 

toes  or  baked  potatoes.  The  giblets,  the  neck,  and  well-cleaned 
chicken  feet  are  placed  in  a  saucepan,  covered  with  cold  water,  and 
seasoned  with  Y2  teaspoonful  salt  and  a  small  onion,  cooked  40  min- 
utes, then  strained,  and  used  as  directed  above. 

Spring  Chicken^  Fried,  No.  1. ‚Äî Cut  a  pair  of  well-cleaned 
spring  chickens  into  quarters ;  season  each  one  with  1  even  tea- 
spoonful  salt,  and  Yg  even  teaspoonful  pepper.  Place  a  frying  pan 
with  2  ounces  fine-cut  pork  over  the  fire,  and  fry  light  brown ;  add  1 
ounce  butter  ;  put  in  the  chickens,  fry  5  minutes  on  each  side  over 
a  moderate  fire ;  then  cover  the  pan,  and  cook  till  tender,  which  will 
take  about  25  minutes.  Place  the  neck,  the  giblets,  and  the  well- 
cleaned  feet  in  a  saucepan  over  the  fire ;  cover  with  cold  water ; 
add  Y3  teaspoonful  salt  and,  when  boiling,  1  small  onion ;  cook  40 
minutes,  strain,  and  use  for  gravy.  Lay  the  chickens,  when  done, 
on  a  hot  dish ;  add  to  the  gravy  Y2  tablespoonful  cornstarch,  stir 
and  cook  3  minutes ;  then  add  ^4  pint  of  the  giblet  broth,  cook  5 
minutes ;  strain,  and  serve  with  the  chickens ;  garnish  with  crou- 
tons. Another  way  is  to  chop  the  giblets  fine,  add  them  to  the 
gravy,  lay  the  chickens  on  buttered  toast,  pour  the  gravy  over 
them,  sprinkle  1  fine-chopped  hard-boiled  egg  over,  and  garnish 
with  water  cress  or  parsley. 

Spring  Chicken,  Fried,  No.  2.‚Äî Cut  1  or  2  well-cleaned 
spring  chickens  into  quarters  ;  wash  them  in  cold  water  and  wipe 
dry ;  season  each  one  with  1  even  teaspoonful  salt,  Y4  teaspoonful 
pepper ;  dust  with  flour  and  dip  them  in  beaten  egg,  then  cover 
with  fine  sifted  bread  crumbs.  Place  a  frying  pan  with  1  ounce 
butter  and  1  ounce  lard  over  the  fire ;  as  soon  as  hot  put  in  as 
many  of  the  chicken  quarters  as  will  conveniently  go  into  the 
pan ;  fry  light  brown  on  both  sides  over  a  moderate  fire  ;  con- 
tinue until  all  are  fried.  Serve  on  a  warm  dish  with  toast  or  fried 
potatoes. 

Boiled  Chicken. ‚Äî Procure  a  nice  young  chicken   of  3  or  4 

pounds ;  singe,  draw,  and  wash  it  in  cold  water ;  truss  it  nicely ; 
25 


380  POULTRY. 

place  it  in  a  saucepan  ;  cover  with  boiling  water ;  add  Yg  tablespoon- 
f ul  salt,  2  onions,  and  a  bouquet ;  cover  and  boil  till  tender.  In 
the  meantime  prepare  a  cream  sauce  as  follows :  Place  a  saucepan 
with  IY2  ounce  butter  over  the  fire,  add  1  heaping  tablespoonful  flour, 
stir  and  cook  2  minutes  ;  then  add  IY2  cupful  of  the  chicken  broth, 
Y2  even  teaspoonful  salt,  Y*  teaspoonf ul  nutmeg ;  boil  5  minutes ;  mix 
the  yolks  of  2  eggs  with  Y2  cupful  of  cream,  add  slowly  to  the  sauce ; 
add  Ya  ounce  butter  and  1  tablespoonful  lemon  juice.  Serve  the 
chicken  on  a  warm  dish  and  the  sauce  in  a  sauce  bowl.  Caper,  egg, 
or  shrimp  sauce  may  be  served  with  the  chicken. 

Chicken  Potpie. ‚Äî Cut  a  well-cleaned  young  chicken  into  10 
pieces ;  clean  and  place  the  feet,  neck,  and  giblets  in  a  saucepan ; 
cover  with  3  pints  of  cold  water ;  add  Y2  teaspoonful  salt,  and  when 
beginning  to  boil,  1  onion  and  a  bouquet ;  boil  1  hour.  In  the  mean- 
time peel  and  cut  into  quarters  6  medium-sized  potatoes,  into  slices 
2  good-sized  white  onions,  and  2  ounces  salt  pork  cut  into  slices. 
Mix  1  tablespoonful  salt  with  1  teaspoonful  pepper;  then  put  into 
a  bowl  1  pint  of  flour,  Y2  teaspoonful  salt,  Y2  pii^t  of  lard,  cut  fine 
with  a  knife  into  the  flour ;  add  Y2  cupful  cold  water,  and  mix  it 
with  the  same  knife  into  a  firm  paste  ;  turn  it  on  to  a  floured  board, 
roll  it  out,  lay  it  3  double,  then  roll  it  again  to  Y2  inch  in  thickness ; 
lay  the  cover  of  the  saucepan  in  which  the  potpie  is  to  be  made 
over  the  paste,  cut  it  with  a  knife  close  to  the  edge  of  cover,  and 
the  remaining  paste  into  3  or  4  pieces.  Next  take  a  saucepan  large 
enough  to  hold  the  potpie ;  put  in  a  layer  of  the  chicken  with  3 
small  slices  of  salt  pork  ;  then  a  layer  of  potatoes  and  onions ;  sea- 
son with  pepper  and  salt ;  add  a  few  pieces  of  the  dough,  continue 
in  alternate  layers  until  all  is  used ;  then  cover  with  a  round  piece 
of  paste,  cut  an  opening  in  the  center  and  put  1  ounce  butter  in  the 
opening ;  strain  the  giblet  broth,  pour  it  over  the  pie ;  if  not  enough 
to  cover,  add  some  boiling  water ;  cover  and  cook  1  hour.  In  serv- 
ing cut  the  cover  into  pieces,  lay  them  in  a  circle  around  the  dish, 
put  the  chicken  in  the  center  with  the  gravy  ;  then  serve. 


POULTRY.  381 

Chicken  Pie. ‚Äî Select  a  young  chicken  of  2Y2  pounds ;  singe, 
draw,  and  wash  it  in  cold  water ;  cut  it  into  10  pieces,  place  in 
saucepan  and  cover  with  boiling  water ;  add  1  even  tablespoonf ul 
salt,  Y2  even  teaspoonf  ul  pepper,  2  onions,  and  a  bouquet ;  cover  and 
boil  till  tender.  In  the  meantime  sift  1  pound  flour  in  a  bowl ;  add 
Y2  teaspoonf  ul  salt ;  make  a  hollow  in  the  center,  put  in  the  yolks 
of  3  eggs,  Ya  pound  butter,  and  1  gill  of  water ;  work  this  with  the 
hands  into  a  firm  paste ;  lay  it  on  a  plate,  and  let  it  rest  for  1  hour 
on  ice  or  in  a  cool  place.  When  the  chicken  is  done  take  it  from 
the  broth,  remove  the  large  bones,  and  set  it  in  a  cool  place  ;  strain 
the  broth.  Melt  2  ounces  butter  in  a  saucepan ;  add  2  heaping 
tablespoonfuls  flour,  stir  3  minutes,  then  add  the  strained  chicken 
broth,  cook  5  minutes ;  if  handy,  add  Y2  cupful  cream  ;  add  Y2  piiit 
of  this  sauce  to  the  chicken,  place  the  remainder  in  a  warm  place. 
When  the  chicken  is  cold,  butter  a  deep  pie  dish,  sprinkle  the  dish 
with  fine  bread  crumbs,  line  the  sides  with  the  above-described 
paste ;  put  in  the  chicken,  cover  it  with  a  thick  layer  of  paste ; 
ornament  the  edge  with  leaves  cut  from  the  paste ;  make  a  cross  in 
the  center ;  turn  the  4  corners  over  so  as  to  leave  an  opening ;  brush 
the  pie  over  with  beaten  egg ;  set  it  in  a  moderately  hot  oven,  to  bake 
till  nearly  done ;  then  take  the  pie  out  of  the  oven  ;  put  a  small  funnel 
in  the  opening  of  the  center,  pour  in  as  much  of  the  gravy  (which 
was  made  from  the  chicken  broth)  as  the  pie  will  hold ;  return  it  to 
the  oven,  and  bake  till  done;  then  serve.  Serve  the  remaining 
gravy  separately  in  a  sauce  bowl.  If  liked,  3  large  peeled  potatoes 
may  be  parboiled  in  salted  water,  then  cut  into  slices  and  added  to 
the  pie. 

Chicken  Timhales. ‚Äî Procure  a  nice  plump  chicken  about  4 
pounds  in  weight;  remove  the  breast  and  mince  it  very  fine;  then 
pound  it  to  a  paste ;  add  to  this  4  ounces  fine-minced  veal  fat  or 
suet.  Then  place  a  saucepan  with  Y2  pint  of  water  and  Ya  ounce  of 
butter  over  the  tire ;  as  soon  as  it  boils  add  4  ounces  flour ;  stir  until 
it  loosens  from  bottom  of  saucepan,  then  set  aside.     When  cold  mix 


382  POULTRY. 

it  with  the  fat  and  chicken  meat ;  pound  the  whole  well  together  ; 
season  with  1  even  tablespoonf ul  salt,  Yg  teaspoonful  nutmeg ;  add  1 
whole  egg  and  2  yolks ;  butter  13  small  timbale  forms,  lay  in  the 
bottom  of  each  a  small  star  of  truffles,  fill  them  three  quarters  full 
with  the  chicken  forcemeat,  press  it  on  the  sides  so  as  to  leave  a  hol- 
low space  in  the  center ;  then  prepare  a  salpicon  as  follows :  Place 
a  saucepan  with  1  ounce  butter  over  the  fire ;  add  1  tablespoonful 
flour,  stir  and  cook  3  minutes ;  then  add  Yg  pint  chicken  broth,  cook 
2  minutes ;  add  1  gill  of  fine-cut  cooked  chicken  meat,  12  fine-cut 
mushrooms,  2  fine-cut  truffles,  and  1  gill  of  fine-cut  beef  tongue ; 
season  with  1  even  teaspoonful  salt,  Y2  even  teaspoonful  pepper,  Y2 
teaspoonful  grated  nutmeg,  the  juice  of  Y2  lemon  ;  stir  and  cook  10 
minutes;  add  4  tablespoonf uls  cream,  then  set  aside;  when  cold, 
fill  Y2  tablespoonful  into  each  timbale,  and  cover  with  the  same 
forcemeat.  Half  an  hour  before  serving  place  the  forms  in  a  pan 
of  hot  water,  which  should  reach  half  way  up  the  forms ;  place  the 
pan  in  a  hot  oven,  cover  with  buttered  paper,  bake  20  to  25  min- 
utes, and  serve  with  the  following  sauce :  Place  a  small  sauce- 
pan with  1  ounce  butter  over  the  fire,  add  1  tablespoonful  flour,  stir 
and  cook  3  minutes ;  add  IY2  cupful  chicken  broth,  Y2  cupful  mush- 
room liquor,  1  even  teaspoonful  salt,  Y2  teaspoonful  nutmeg,  and  a 
small  bouquet ;  boil  5  minutes ;  remove  the  bouquet ;  mix  the  yolks 
of  2  eggs  with  Y2  cupful  cream ;  add  it  to  the  sauce ;  then  strain. 
Unmold  the  timbales,  and  serve.  Small  timbales  are  generally 
served  after  the  soup  on  individuals  with  a  tablespoonful  sauce 
under  them. 

Chicken  Croquettes. ‚Äî Melt  IY2  ounce  butter  in  a  small  sauce- 
pan ;  add  1  heaping  tablespoonful  flour,  stir  and  cook  for  a  few 
minutes  without  browning ;  then  add  IY4  cupful  chicken  broth ;  tie 
together  1  sprig  of  parsley,  1  blade  of  mace,  a  small  sprig  of  thyme, 
Yg  bay  leaf,  1  clove,  and  add  this  to  the  sauce  with  6  whole  peppers, 
Y2  teaspoonful  salt,  and  a  pinch  of  nutmeg ;  boil  10  minutes ;  then 
strain  into  another  saucepan,  add  6  fine-chopped  mushrooms,  1  pint 


POULTRY.  383 

fine-cut  cooked  chicken  meat,  3  tablespoonf  uls  sherry  wine ;  season 
with  1  teaspoonful  salt,  Y2  teaspoonful  white  pepper,  Y4  teaspoonful 
grated  nutmeg,  and  cook  10  minutes;  draw  the  saucepan  to  side  of 
stove ;  add  the  yolks  of  3  eggs,  stir  well,  spread  the  mixture  on  a 
flat  dish,  and  set  away.  When  cold,  form  the  preparation  into  cro- 
quettes ;  take  a  tablespoonf  ul  of  the  mixture,  drop  it  into  grated 
bread  crumbs ;  roll  it  into  round  balls ;  dip  the  balls  into  beaten 
egg,  and  cover  with  bread  crumbs ;  roll  into  oblong  shapes.  When 
all  are  prepared  in  this  way,  fry  them  in  hot  fat  to  a  delicate  brown, 
and  serve  with  cream  or  supreme  sauce. 

SuPEEME  Sauce. ‚Äî Cut  a  well-cleaned  chicken  into  8  pieces  (put 
the  breast,  thighs,  and  legs  aside  for  other  purposes) ;  scald  the  feet 
in  boiling  water,  remove  their  skin,  and  place  them  with  the  wings 
and  back  of  the  chicken  in  a  saucepan ;  cover  with  boiling  water, 
cook  2  minutes ;  drain  in  a  colander ;  rinse  off  with  fresh  cold 
water;  return  the  chicken  pieces  to  the  fire  and  cover  with  fresh 
cold  water,  adding  1  teaspoonful  salt  and  a  small  bouquet;  cover, 
and  boil  1  hoar.  Melt  1  ounce  of  butter  in  a  saucepan ;  add  1 
heaping  tablespoonful  flour,  stir  for  a  few  minutes;  strain  the 
chicken  broth ;  add  1  pint  of  broth  to  the  butter  and  flour,  stir  well, 
and  cook  slowly  10  minutes;  then  add  Yg  tablespoonf  ul  butter,  Ys 
cupful  cream,  cook  2  minutes;  add  the  juice  of  Ys  lemon,  and 
serve. 

Chicken  Croquettes  a  la  Trayiete. ‚Äî Place  a  well-cleaned 
chicken  3  pounds  in  weight  in  a  saucepan ;  cover  with  boiling 
water ;  add  2  onions,  Y2  tablespoonful  salt,  and  a  bouquet ;  cover 
and  boil  till  tender ;  take  it  out,  free  the  meat  from  skin  and  bones, 
and  cut  it  fine ;  then  place  a  saucepan  with  2  ounces  butter  over  the 
fire ;  add  1  heaping  tablespoonful  flour,  stir  and  cook  2  minutes ; 
add  IY2  cupful  chicken  broth  and  a  small  bouquet,  cook  5  minutes  ; 
remove  the  bouquet ;  add  1  even  teaspoonful  salt,  Y2  even  teaspoon- 
ful white  pepper,  1  pint  of  the  fine-cut  chicken  meat,  Y2  cupful 
fine-cut  mushrooms,  stir  and  cook  5  minutes;  add  the  jolks  of  3 


384  POULTRY. 

eggs,  continue  the  stirring  for  a  few  minutes ;  spread  the  mixture 
on  a  flat  dish,  and  set  aside  to  cool.  Shortly  before  serving  form 
it  into  cork-shaped  croquettes ;  dip  them  into  beaten  egg  and 
roll  in  grated  bread  crumbs ;  then  fry  light  brown  in  half  lard  and 
half  butter,  or  in  boiling  lard ;  lay  the  croquettes  on  blotting  paper, 
to  absorb  all  the  grease ;  serve  on  a  hot  dish  with  sauce  traviete, 
made  as  follows :  Place  a  small  saucepan  with  2  tablespoonf uls  fine- 
chopped  onion  over  the  fire ;  add  3  tablespoonfuls  tarragon  vinegar, 
12  coarsely  pounded  black  peppers,  cook  until  nearly  dry,  and  when 
cold  add  the  yolks  of  4  eggs,  and  slowly  Y2  cupful  boiling  water 
with  1  teaspoonf ul  beef  extract ;  set  the  saucepan  into  boiling  water 
over  the  fire ;  stir  and  cook  till  the  sauce  begins  to  thicken  ;  remove, 
add  V2  cupful  stewed  tomatoes ;  then  strain  through  a  sieve ;  add 
"^/g  cupful  whipped  cream,  and  serve. 

Chicken  Croquettes  a  la  Bechamel.‚Äî Prepare  these  cro- 
quettes the  same  as  in  foregoing  recipe,  and  serve  with  bechamel 
sauce. 

Bagotltant. ‚Äî Place  a  saucepan  over  the  fire  with  1  ounce  of 
butter  and  1  tablespoonf  ul  flour,  stir  and  cook  3  minutes ;  add  % 
pint  boiling  m.ilk,  a  small  bouquet,  y,  teaspoonful  nutmeg,  1  gill  of 
mushroom  liquor,  12  whole  peppers,  1  even  teaspoonful  salt,  cook  5 
minutes,  then  strain  into  a  clean  saucepan.  Season  1  chicken  liver 
with  salt  and  pepper,  fry  it  5  minutes  in  butter ;  stew  also  Y2  pint 
of  canned  mushrooms  10  minutes  in  1  ounce  butter ;  then  cut  into 
small  pieces ;  cut  also  the  liver  fine,  add  to  this  1  pint  of  cooked 
chicken  meat ;  add  the  3  ingredients  to  the  sauce ;  add  from  2  to  4 
tablespoonfuls  of  cream.  Then  fill  the  preparation  into  6  table 
shells ;  sprinkle  over  some  grated  bread  crumbs  with  a  few  drops  of 
butter,  and  bake  till  light  brown  in  hot  oven  about  10  minutes. 

Chicken  a  la  Poulette. ‚Äî Place  a  well-cleaned  young  chicken 
3  pounds  in  weight  in  a  saucepan  over  the  fire,  cover  with  boiling 
water,  add  2  onions,  1  bouquet,  and  Yg  tablespoonf  ul  salt ;  cover  and 
cook  slowly.     When  done  take  out  the  chicken,  remove  skin  and 


POULTRY.  385 

bones,  cut  the  white  meat  into  Yg-inch  pieces.  Place  a  saucepan 
with  2  ounces  butter  over  the  fire,  add  2  tablespoonfuls  flour, 
stir  and  cook  3  minutes,  then  add  gradually  1  pint  of  chicken  broth, 
1  teaspoonf  ul  salt,  Yg  teaspoonf  ul  nutmeg,  and  a  small  bouquet ;  cook 
5  minutes.  Strain  the  sauce  into  a  clean  saucepan,  add  1  gill  of 
fine-cut  mushrooms,  1  tablespoonful  lemon  juice,  cook  5  minutes ; 
mix  Ys  piiit  of  cream  with  the  yolks  of  4  eggs  and  1  teaspoonf  ul 
fine-chopped  parsley,  add  it  to  the  sauce,  stir  for  a  few  minutes  oyer 
the  fire,  without  boiling ;  then  draw  the  saucepan  to  side  of  stove, 
add  the  fine-cut  chicken  meat  and  the  sweetbreads  mentioned  be- 
low. Place  1  pair  of  large  sweetbreads  in  a  saucepan,  cover  with  cold 
water,  add  1  teaspoonf  ul  salt,  and  boil  5  minutes ;  remove,  and  cool 
in  cold  water.  Place  a  saucepan  with  1  tablespoonful  butter  over 
the  fire,  drain  and  dry  the  sweetbreads,  add  them  to  the  butter, 
season  with  1  even  teaspoonful  seasoning  salt,  cover  and  cook 
slowly  till  done ;  then  remove  and  cut  them  into  pieces,  and  use  as 
directed  above.     Serve  in  small  fancy  bowls  with  finger  rolls. 

How  to  cook  Old  Chickens. ‚Äî Singe,  draw,  and  wash  a 
chicken  of  3  or  4  years  old  ;  put  it  in  a  kettle  over  the  fire  ;  cover 
completely  with  boiling  water ;  add  Ys  tablespoonful  salt,  2  onions, 
and  a  bouquet ;  draw  the  kettle  to  side  of  stove  and  simmer  gently 
from  3  to  4  hours,  or  until  a  fork  will  easily  penetrate  through  the 
second  joint ;  then  remove  the  kettle  from  the  fire,  let  the  chicken 
remain  20  minutes  in  the  broth  ;  take  it  out,  season  with  1  even 
tablespoonful  salt,  1  even  teaspoonful  pepper  evenly  distributed  inside 
and  outside  over  the  chicken.  Then  place  a  saucepan  large  enough 
to  hold  the  chicken  over  the  fire  with  4  ounces  of  larding  pork ;  fry 
to  a  delicate  brown ;  add  2  ounces  butter  and  the  chicken ;  keep 
turning  the  chicken  until  it  has  obtained  a  fine  brown  color  ;  then 
add  Ys  pint  of  the  chicken  broth,  cover  and  cook  slowly  30  minutes; 
transfer  the  chicken  to  a  hot  dish  ;  remove  some  of  the  fat  from 
the  gravy ;  mix  1  tablespoonful  cornstarch  with  Ys  cupful  cold 
water,  add  it  to  the  gravy,  stir  and  cook  3  minutes  ;  add  sufficient 


386  POULTRY. 

chicken  broth  to  make  a  creamy  sauce ;  then  strain  ;  chop  the 
boiled  giblets  very  fine,  add  them  to  the  sauce  ;  cut  the  chicken 
into  10  pieces,  lay  them  on  a  hot  dish,  pour  over  the  gravy,  and 
serve.  This  dish  is  very  nice  garnished  with  small  slices  of  bread 
fried  brown  in  half  lard  and  half  butter  or  fat.  Prepare  nudle  soup 
of  the  broth. 

Old  Chicken,  Roasted. ‚Äî Put  a  well-cleaned  old  chicken  in  a 
saucepan  ;  cover  with  boiling  water ;  add  Yg  tablespoonful  salt,  2 
onions,  and  a  bouquet ;  boil  from  2  to  3  hours,  or  until  a  fork  will 
penetrate  the  meat  easily ;  then  take  it  out ;  season  with  1  even 
tablespoonful  salt,  1  even  teaspoonf ul  pepper ;  lay  the  chicken  in  a 
roasting  pan  with  4  thin  slices  of  larding  pork  over  the  breast,  pour 
2  ounces  melted  butter  all  over  it ;  place  the  pan  in  a  hot  oven ; 
roast,  basting  frequently,  until  the  chicken  is  nice  and  brown  ;  then 
add  Ya  cupful  chicken  broth,  continue  to  roast  and  baste  30  min- 
utes. Shortly  before  serving,  lay  the  chicken  on  a  warm  dish  ; 
remove  the  fat  from  the  gravy,  mix  Ya  tablespoonful  cornstarch 
with  Y2  gill  of  cold  water  ;  add  it  to  the  gravy,  stir  and  cook  3  min- 
utes ;  add  sufficient  chicken  broth  to  make  a  creamy  sauce  and  boil 
5  minutes ;  then  strain  ;  rub  the  boiled  liver  to  a  cream  ;  add  it  to 
the  sauce,  and  serve. 

Old  Chicken  with  Dressing. ‚Äî Boil  and  roast  the  chicken  the 
same  as  in  foregoing  recipe  ;  soak  Y4  pound  stale  baker's  bread  10 
minutes  in  cold  water,  inclose  it  in  cheese  cloth  or  a  towel,  and 
press  out  all  the  water.  Melt  2  ounces  butter  in  a  saucepan,  add  3 
tablespoonfuls  fine-chopped  onions,  stir  and  cook  5  minutes ;  then 
add  the  bread,  stir  and  cook  5  minutes  longer  ;  turn  the  bread  into 
a  bowl,  and  when  cold  add  Ys  even  teaspoonful  white  pepper,  1  even 
teaspoonful  salt,  1  teaspoonful  thyme,  and  2  eggs ;  mix  all  the  in- 
gredients well  together,  put  into  a  buttered  pan.  Twenty  minutes 
before  serving,  place  in  a  hot  oven,  and  bake  15  minutes.  When 
ready  to  serve,  carve  the  chicken  nicely  ;  cut  the  bread  filling  into 
slices,  and  lay  them  on  a  hot  dish ;  pour  a  little  of  the  chicken 


POULTRY.  387 

gravy  over  each  piece ;  give  to  each  person  some  chicken  and  1 
slice  of  the  filling.  Make  either  a  nudle  or  a  rice  soup  of  the 
remaining  chicken  broth. 

COLD  CHICKEN. 

How  to  utilize  Odd  Boiled  or  Roasted  Chicken. 

Fritee  of  Cold  Boiled  Chicken. ‚Äî Cut  cold  boiled  chicken 
into  joints  the  same  as  for  fricassee,  then  mix  the  yolks  of  2  eggs 
with  Ya  cupful  milk ;  add  Yg  pint  of  flour,  Ys  even  teaspoonf ul  salt, 
Y2  ounce  melted  butter  ;  stir  until  a  smooth  batter  is  formed  ;  beat 
the  2  whites  to  a  stiff  froth ;  add  the  batter  slowly  to  the  whites, 
stirring  constantly ;  dip  the  chicken  pieces  into  the  batter ;  then 
fry  them  to  a  fine  golden  color  in  hot  fat  (which  should  be  deep 
enough  to  cover  the  chicken  pieces)  till  done  ;  remove  with  a  skim- 
mer ;  drain  on  paper ;  dress  the  chicken  on  a  hot  dish,  and  garnish 
with  fried  or  green  parsley ;  serve  with  baked,  or  French  fried  po- 
tatoes. 

Cold  Chicken  with  Oysters. ‚Äî Eemove  the  meat  from  cold 
roasted  chickens,  cut  it  into  1-inch  pieces;  crack  the  bones  and 
put  them  in  a  saucepan  over  the  fire ;  add  the  gravy  if  at  hand ; 
barely  cover  with  cold  water ;  as  soon  as  it  boils  add  1  fine-cut 
onion  and  a  small  bouquet ;  cover  and  boil  40  minutes  ;  then  strain 
the  broth  through  a  napkin.  Put  1  pint  of  oysters  with  their  liquor 
in  a  saucepan  over  the  fire ;  let  come  to  a  boil,  then  instantly  re- 
move them  with  a  skimmer,  and  set  aside.  Melt  IY3  ounce  butter 
in  a  saucepan  ;  add  2  tablespoonfuls  fine-chopped  onions,  1  bay  leaf, 
12  whole  peppers,  and  1  even  teaspoonful  salt ;  cook  5  minutes 
without  browning ;  add  1  tablespoonful  flour,  stir  and  cook  3  min- 
utes ;  add  1  pint  of  broth  mentioned  above,  and  cook  5  minutes 
longer  ;  remove  the  bay  leaf  ;  continue  the  cooking  for  5  minutes  ; 
strain  into  a  clean  saucepan  ;  add  IY3  pint  of  chicken  meat,  cook  5 
minutes ;  mix  the  yolks  of  2  eggs  with  Y2  cupful  cream,  add  it  to 
the  chicken  ;  then  add  the  oysters  and  1  tablespoonful  lemon  juice. 


388  POULTRY. 

The  yolks  and  cream  may  be  omitted  and  in  place  of  them  1  table- 
spoonful  unsweetened  condensed  milk  used  ;  but  the  former  is  the 
finer  of  the  two.  Serve  on  a  hot  dish,  and  garnish  with  6  small 
pieces  of  buttered  toast. 

Risotto  of  Cold  Chicken. ‚Äî Pour  boiling  water  over  Vg  pound 
well- washed  rice,  let  it  remain  a  few  minutes,  then  drain  on  a  sieve ; 
rinse  off  with  fresh  boiling  water.  Melt  2  ounces  butter  or  3  table- 
spoonfuls  olive  oil  in  a  saucepan  ;  add  1  gill  of  fine-chopped  onion, 
cook  5  minutes  without  browning ;  then  add  the  rice,  stir  and  cook 
a  few  minutes ;  add  1  pint  of  chicken  or  veal  broth,  1  teaspoonf ul 
salt,  Y2  teaspoonful  pepper,  and  Y^  pint  of  stewed  tomatoes,  or  2  fine- 
cut  raw  tomatoes ;  cover  and  cook  slowly  till  the  rice  is  nearly  done ; 
add  1  pint  of  fine-cut  chicken  meat,  and  continue  the  cooking  until 
the  rice  is  soft,  but  the  kernels  should  be  whole.  "When  ready  to 
serve  turn  the  risotto  on  a  hot  dish,  sprinkle  over  2  ounces  grated 
cheese,  and  mix  it  well  with  2  forks.  A  great  improvement  to  this 
dish  is  a  garnish  of  tomatoes,  prepared  as  follows  :  Place  1  gill  of 
fine-chopped  onions  in  a  deep  frying  pan  with  1  ounce  butter,  cook 
5  minutes ;  cut  4  large  ripe  tomatoes  in  halves,  lay  them  with  the 
skin  side  downward  into  the  pan ;  season  with  1  even  teaspoonful 
salt,  Y2  even  teaspoonful  pepper,  cover  and  cook  5  minutes ;  turn 
the  tomatoes  over,  and  cook  for  5  minutes  longer ;  remove  them 
carefully  and  arrange  in  a  circle  around  the  dish ;  pour  the  sauce 
over  the  tomatoes,  and  serve. 

Silan  Curry  of  Cold  Chicken. ‚Äî Cut  the  meat  from  rem- 
nants of  cold  roasted  or  boiled  chicken  into  1-incli  pieces ;  place  a 
saucepan  with  1  gill  of  fine-cut  onions  and  IY2  ounce  butter  over 
the  fire,  cook  5  minutes ;  add  1  teaspoonful  curry  powder,  1  tea- 
spoonful salt,  and  1  tablespoonful  flour,  stir  and  cook  3  minutes ; 
add  Ys  pit^t  of  chicken  broth,  which  can  be  made  from  the  chicken 
bones,  cook  and  stir  a  few  minutes  ;  then  add  IY2  giU  of  cream  or 
milk,  Ys  pint  of  grated  cocoanut,  and  1  pint  of  chicken  meat,  cook 
5  minutes.     Serve  in  a  border  of  boiled  rice. 


POULTRY.  389 

Cold  Chicken  ^  la  Cr¬ßme. ‚Äî Cut  the  meat  of  cold  roasted  or 
boiled  chicken  into  small  pieces  ;  crack  the  bones  and  place  them 
in  a  saucepan,  cover  with  cold  water ;  if  any  gravy  is  at  hand  add  it 
to  the  chicken  bones  ;  as  soon  as  it  boils  add  1  onion  cut  into  slices, 
Y2  bay  leaf,  12  whole  peppers,  boil  40  minutes ;  then  strain  the 
broth  through  a  sieve.  Melt  1  ounce  butter  in  a  saucepan ;  add  1 
tablespoonf ul  flour,  stir  and  cook  3  minutes ;  add  Y2  pint  of  chicken 
broth,  1  even  teaspoonful  salt,  Y4  teaspoonful  white  pepper,  and  1 
gill  of  milk,  cook  2  minutes ;  then  add  IY2  pint  fine-cut  chicken 
meat,  cook  5  minutes ;  add,  if  handy,  Y3  cupful  cream  or  1  table- 
spoonful  unsweetened  condensed  milk,  continue  the  cooking  3 
minutes  ;  add  last  1  tablespoonful  lemon  juice.  Lay  6  pieces 
of  buttered  toast  on  a  hot  dish,  pour  over  the  chicken  creme 
and  serve,  or  serve  with  a  border  of  boiled  nudles  in  place  of 
toast. 

Minced  Cold  Chicken. ‚Äî Remove  the  meat  from  the  bones  of 
cold  roasted  chicken,  free  it  from  the  skin  and  gristle ;  chop  the 
meat  as  fine  as  possible  ;  then  weigh  it ;  add  to  1  pound  of  fine- 
minced  chicken  meat  4  ounces  butter,  4  ounces  fine-minced  boiled 
ham ;  season  with  1  even  teaspoonful  salt,  Y2  even  teaspoonful  white 
pepper ;  mix  all  well  together  and  put  it  in  a  small  jar.  (If  it  is  to 
be  kept  for  some  time  cover  with  melted  butter,  tie  a  paper  over, 
and  keep  it  in  a  cool  place.)  Cold  chicken  prepared  in  this  way  is 
handy  for  sandwiches  and  stuffed  eggs. 

Chicken  Livers,  Stewed.‚Äî Wash  and  wipe  dry  the  livers  of  6 
chickens,  season  with  1  even  tablespoonful  seasoning  salt.  Place  a 
small  saucepan  with  1  ounce  butter  over  the  fire  ;  as  soon  as  hot  put 
in  the  livers,  cook  6  minutes ;  add  2  tablespoonf  uls  sherry  or 
Madeira  wine  and  a  pinch  of  Cayenne  pepper.  Melt  Y2  ounce  butter 
in  another  saucepan,  add  Ys  tablespoonful  fiour,  stir  3  minutes ;  add 
Y2  pint  of  boiling  water  and  1  teaspoonful  beef  extract,  then  1  gill 
of  fine-chopped  mushrooms,  cook  5  minutes  ;  add  this  sauce  to  the 
livers,  cook  a  few  minutes  longer  ;  add  1  tablespoonful  lemon  juice, 


390  POULTRY. 

and  serve  on  a  warm  dish ;  garnish  with  croutons.    The  mushrooms, 
if  not  at  hand,  may  be  omitted. 

Chicken  Livers  broiled  with  Bacon. ‚Äî Wash  and  wipe  6 
chicken  livers  dry,  season  with  1  even  tablespoonful  seasoning  salt; 
cut  13  thin  slices  of  bacon,  then  each  liver  into  2  pieces ;  take  3 
silver  skewers,  run  a  skewer  through  the  center  of  a  piece  of  liver, 
then  through  a  slice  of  bacon,  continue  alternately  with  bacon  and 
livers  till  the  3  skewers  are  full ;  then  brush  the  livers  over  with 
melted  butter,  sprinkle  them  with  fresh  grated  bread  crumbs,  lay 
on  a  hot  broiler,  and  broil  5  minutes  on  each  side ;  put  the  skewers 
on  a  hot  dish.  Stir  1  ounce  butter  to  a  cream  ;  add  slowly  1  table- 
spoonful  lemon  juice,  Y^  teaspoonful  nutmeg,  and  1  teaspoonful  fine- 
chopped  parsley  ;  spread  this  over  the  livers,  and  serve. 

Chicken  Livers  a  I'ltalienne. ‚Äî Wash  and  wipe  dry  6  or  8 
chicken  livers,  cut  each  liver  into  slices ;  season  with  1  even  table- 
spoonful  seasoning  salt ;  place  a  saucepan  with  IY2  ounce  butter 
over  the  fire  ;  add  2  tablespoonfuls  fine-chopped  onion,  Y2  clove  of 
bruised  garlic,  and  cook  5  minutes  ;  add  Y2  pii^t  of  fine-chopped 
mushrooms,  also  the  livers  ;  cook  slowly  10  minutes.  In  the  mean- 
time melt  in  another  saucepan  Y2  ounce  butter ;  add  Y2  tablespoon- 
ful flour ;  stir  and  cook  2  minutes  ;  add  1  gill  of  meat  broth  or 
stock  (if  stock  is  not  handy,  add  1  gill  of  boiling  water  and  Y2  tea- 
spoonful  beef  extract),  cook  5  minutes  ;  then  add  it  to  the  livers 
and  cook  a  few  minutes  longer ;  serve  on  a  heated  dish  with  6  small 
slices  of  bread  fried  in  butter  to  a  delicate  brown. 

Chicken  Legs,  Broiled. ‚Äî Place  the  legs  of  3  chickens  in  a 
saucepan,  cover  with  boiling  water;  add  Y2  tablespoonful  salt,  1 
onion,  and  a  bouquet ;  boil  until  a  larding  needle  will  penetrate 
easily  through  them ;  them  remove ;  when  cold  mix  1  teaspoonful 
seasoning  salt  with  1  teaspoonful  English  mustard  ;  roll  the  chicken 
legs  into  this  seasoning  ;  dip  them  in  melted  butter,  roll  in  fresh 
grated  bread  crumbs,  lay  on  a  hot  broiler,  and  broil  5  minutes  on 
each  side.     Serve  on  a  warm  dish  with  maitre  d 'hotel  butter. 


POULTRY.  391 

Chicken  Legs  and  Second  Joints  a  I'Allemande.‚Äî Place 

the  legs  and  second  joints  of  3  chickens  in  a  saucepan,  cover  with 
boiling  water  ;  add  3  medium-sized  onions,  1  even  teaspoonful  white 
pepper,  1  even  tablespoonf ul  salt,  and  a  bouquet ;  boil  slowly  till 
tender ;  lay  the  legs  and  joints  on  a  hot  dish  ;  strain  the  broth. 
Melt  2  ounces  butter  in  a  saucepan,  add  2  tablespoonfuls  flour, 
stir  and  cook  2  minutes ;  add  the  strained  broth,  cook  until  smooth. 
Mix  the  yolks  of  2  eggs  and  the  juice  of  half  a  lemon,  add  it  to 
the  sauce ;  add  last  a  few  spoonfuls  cream.  Place  the  legs  and 
joints  on  a  hot  dish,  pour  the  sauce  over  them,  and  garnish  with 
rice,  nudle,  or  potato  timbales. 

Guinea  Hen,  Potted. ‚Äî Season  a  nice  pair  of  well-cleaned 
Guinea  hens  with  1  tablespoonf  ul  salt ;  tie  the  legs  and  wings  close 
to  the  body  with  strings.  Place  a  saucepan  large  enough  to  receive 
the  birds  with  4  ounces  fine-cut  larding  pork  over  the  fire ;  fry 
until  light  brown ;  add  2  ounces  butter  and  the  Guinea  hens,  let 
them  cook,  turning  often  till  they  are  light  brown  on  all  sides ;  then 
add  1  cupful  boiling  water,  cover  and  cook  slowly  till  they  are  done ; 
if  the  gravy  gets  too  brown  add  a  little  more  water,  but  only  a  little 
at  a  time,  for  if  too  much  water  is  added  they  will  be  stewed  in- 
stead of  roasted.  Place  the  giblets  with  1  quart  cold  water  and  a 
little  salt  in  a  saucepan  over  the  fire  ;  cook  till  done.  Shortly  be- 
fore serving,  fry  6  small  slices  of  bread  in  butter  or  half  lard  to  a 
delicate  brown  color ;  cut  them  in  triangle  shapes.  Remove  the 
Guinea  hens  ;  cut  each  one  into  6  pieces  ;  lay  them  on  a  warm  dish ; 
remove  the  fat  from  the  gravy  ;  mix  1  tablespoonful  cornstarch  with 
Ys  gill  of  cold  water ;  add  it  to  the  gra-v^y,  cook  3  minutes ;  add  suf- 
ficient giblet  broth  to  make  a  creamy  sauce,  cook  5  minutes  ;  strain 
the  sauce  into  a  clean  saucepan  ;  chop  the  giblets  fine,  add  them  to 
the  sauce  ;  pour  the  gravy  over  the  birds,  and  lay  the  fried  bread  in 
a  circle  around  the  dish,  then  serve. 

Guinea  Hen,  Roasted. ‚Äî Remove  the  feathers  from  a  nice  pair 
cf  young  hens ;  singe,  draw,  wash,  and  dry  them  ;  season  with  1 


392  POULTRY. 

tablespoonful  salt,  truss  nicely,  and  lay  them  in  a  roasting  pan ; 
spread  over  each  hen  2  ounces  butter,  and  tie  over  the  breasts  a  large 
thin  slices  of  larding  pork  ;  add  Y2  gill  of  boiling  water ;  set  the 
pan  in  a  medium-hot  oven,  and  roast  till  done,  basting  frequently 
with  their  own  gravy  (if  the  gravy  should  get  too  brown,  add  a  lit- 
tle more  water).  Shortly  before  serving,  lay  the  fowls  on  a  warm 
dish  ;  remove  the  fat  from  the  gravy  and  add  a  little  stock  to  it ; 
boil  2  minutes ;  then  strain,  and  serve  with  the  birds. 

Capon,  Roasted. ‚Äî Season  a  well-cleaned  capon  with  1  table- 
spoonful  salt ;  rub  the  salt  inside  and  outside ;  twist  the  wings  back- 
ward, truss  it  nicely  ;  spread  1  ounce  butter  over  it,  and  lay  3  slices 
of  larding  pork  over  the  breast ;  place  the  capon  in  a  roasting  pan  ; 
set  the  pan  in  a  medium-hot  oven  ;  roast  and  baste  frequently  until 
it  is  light  brown  all  over ;  then  add  a  little  boiling  water  ;  continue 
to  roast  until  done.  Shortly  before  serving,  lay  the  capon  on  a 
warm  dish,  remove  all  fat  from  the  gravy ;  add  a  little  bouillon  ; 
let  it  boil  2  minutes  ;  then  strain  and  serve  with  the  capon. 

Capon,  Roasted  and  Filled. ‚Äî Season  a  well-cleaned  capon  in- 
side with  1  even  teaspoonf ul  salt,  and  stuff  it  with  the  following  force- 
meat :  Place  a  saucepan  with  1  ounce  butter  and  Yg  pint  water  over 
the  fire ;  as  soon  as  it  boils  add  1  even  cupful  flour ;  stir  until  it 
forms  into  a  smooth  paste  and  loosens  from  bottom  of  saucepan  ;  re- 
remove  and  put  the  paste  into  a  bowl ;  when  nearly  cold  add  the  yolks 
of  2  eggs  and  1  whole  egg  ;  chop  %  pound  of  lean  veal  very  fine  with 
6  ounces  suet  or  veal  fat ;  season  with  1  teaspoonful  salt,  Y2  even 
teaspoonful  pepper,  %  teaspoonful  nutmeg,  Y2  teaspoonful  thyme ; 
mix  all  well  together,  then  place  the  meat  in  a  wooden  chopping  bowl 
and  pound  it  fine  with  a  potato  masher ;  add  the  cooked  paste  in 
small  portions,  and  pound  the  whole  thoroughly.  Then  place  a 
saucepan  with  1  ounce  butter  over  the  fire,  add  1  fine-chopped  onion, 
cook  5  minutes ;  add  6  fine-chopped  mushrooms,  cook  3  minutes 
longer ;  add  this  to  the  above  preparation.  Loosen  the  skin  from 
the  breast  of  a  well-cleaned  capon ;  put  a  layer  of  this  forcemeat 


POULTRY.  393 

over  the  breast  under  the  skin,  fill  the  remaining  forcemeat  into 
the  body,  sew  it  up ;  twist  the  wings  over  the  back ;  run  a  skewer 
through  the  thigh  and  body  ;  tie  it  firmly  with  strings  ;  season  with 
1  even  tablespoonful  salt ;  cover  the  breast  with  a  large  thin  slice  of 
larding  pork ;  spread  2  ounces  butter  over  the  capon  ;  place  it  in  a 
roasting  pan,  set  it  in  a  medium-hot  oven,  roast  and  baste  frequently 
with  its  own  gravy  till  light  brown  all  over ;  then  add  a  little  broth 
from  the  giblets,  which  should  be  boiled  in  water ;  continue  to 
roast  and  baste  till  done,  which  will  take  about  V-j^  hour.  Shortly 
before  serving,  melt  1  ounce  butter  in  a  saucepan,  add  1  tablespoon- 
ful flour,  stir  and  cook  3  minutes  ;  add  IY2  cupful  giblet  broth,  and 
cook  5  minutes.  Lay  the  capon  on  a  warm  dish,  remove  threads 
and  skewers,  free  the  gravy  from  fat ;  add  the  gravy  to  the  sauce  in 
saucepan,  cook  a  few  minutes  ;  then  strain  into  a  clean  saucepan, 
add  Y2  cupful  fine-chopped  mushrooms,  and  if  necessary  a  little 
salt ;  then  serve  with  the  capon. 

Capon  with  Bread  Filling. ‚Äî Soak  4  ounces  stale  baker's 
bread  in  cold  water  till  soft ;  press  out  all  the  water ;  put  the 
bread  into  a  bowl.  Melt  2  ounces  butter  in  a  saucepan ;  add  Yg 
gill  fine-chopped  onion,  cook  5  minutes  without  browning  ;  add  to 
the  bread  ;  season  with  1  even  teaspoonf ul  salt,  Yg  even  teaspoonful 
pepper,3  well-beaten  eggs,  and  Y2  teaspoonful  thyme ;  mix  all  the 
ingredients  well  together  ;  loosen  the  skin  from  the  breast  of  a  well- 
cleaned  capon  ;  put  the  bread  dressing  over  the  breast  under  the 
skin  ;  fill  also  the  crop  ;  sew  it  up ;  run  a  skewer  through  the  thigh 
and  body ;  season  with  1  even  tablespoonful  salt ;  then  roast  and 
finish  the  same  as  in  foregoing  recipe.  The  fine-chopped  liver  of 
the  capon  may  be  added  to  the  above  bread  filling.  Capon  may 
also  be  stuffed  with  oyster  forcemeat,  chestnut  puree,  and  plain 
bread  filling, 

TURKEY. 

Turkey  roasted  a  I'Alleraande.‚Äî Select  a  young  turkey 
10  pounds  in  weight ;  singe,  draw,  and  wash  quickly  in  cold  water ; 
wipe  dry  with  a  towel ;  then  season  inside  with  Y2  tablespoonful 


394  POULTRY. 

salt ;  fill  the  crop  and  body  with  f orcement  described  below.  Sew 
the  turkey  up,  twist  the  wings  over  its  back,  run  a  skewer  through 
the  thighs  into  the  body  ;  pass  a  string  across  the  back  of  the  bird, 
crossing  it  below  the  breast,  then  catch  it  over  the  points  of  the 
skewer,  cross  the  string  again,  and  tie  it  in  the  back.  Eub  1  table- 
spoonful  salt  all  over  the  turkey,  and  lay  in  a  roasting  pan  ;  spread  2 
ounces  butter  over  the  breast ;  then  place  the  pan  in  a  medium-hot 
oven  to  roast ;  turn  often  and  baste  freely  with  its  own  gravy,  till 
the  bird  is  light  brown  on  all  sides  ;  add  1  cupful  boiling  water, 
continue  to  roast,  basting  frequently  till  done,  which  will  take 
about  2  Yg  hours ;  or  you  may  allow  15  minutes  to  a  pound.  Place 
the  giblets  in  a  saucepan  over  the  fire ;  cover  with  cold  water ;  add 
Ya  teaspoonful  salt ;  when  it  boils  add  1  onion,  and  cook  till  done. 
Shortly  before  serving,  lay  the  turkey  on  a  warm  dish,  remove 
threads,  strings,  and  skewers,  also  the  fat  from  the  gravy.  Mix  1 
tablespoonful  cornstarch  with  1  gill  of  cold  water,  add  it  to  the 
gravy,  stir  this  over  the  fire,  and  cook  3  minutes ;  add  sufficient 
giblet  broth  to  make  a  creamy  sauce,  cook  5  minutes  ;  then  strain ; 
chop  the  giblets  fine,  add  them  to  the  sauce,  and  serve. 

FoKCEMEAT  FOR  TuRKEY  A  l'Allemakde. ‚Äî Soak  a  5-cent  loaf 
of  bread  in  cold  water  until  soft,  then  inclose  it  in  a  towel  and  press 
it  dry.  Place  a  saucepan  with  4  tablespoonfuls  of  fine-chopped 
onion  over  the  fire ;  add  1  ounce  butter,  stir  and  cook  5  minutes 
without  browning;  add  the  bread,  continue  to  stir  and  cook  5  min- 
utes ;  turn  the  bread  into  a  dish,  and  when  cold  mix  it  with  1  pound 
of  fine-chopped  fresh  pork  from  the  loin  or  tenderloin  ;  season  with 
1  even  tablespoonful  salt,  1  even  teaspoonful  pepper,  Ys  teaspoon- 
ful nutmeg,  1  teaspoonful  thyme,  and  the  yolks  of  2  eggs ;  mix  all 
well  together,  and  use  as  directed  above.  In  place  of  the  above 
forcemeat,  oyster  or  veal  forcemeat  may  be  used,  and  in  place  of 
fresh  pork,  sausage  meat  may  be  taken. 

Turkey  roasted  with  Bread  Dressing.‚Äî Prepare  the  tur- 
key the  same  as  in  foregoing  recipe ;  soak  a  small  loaf  of  baker's 
bread  without  the  rind  for  10  minutes  in  cold  water,  then  inclose 


POULTRY.  395 

it  in  a  towel  and  press  it  dry.  Place  a  saucepan  with  2  fine-chopped 
onions  and  2  ounces  of  butter  over  the  fire ;  cook  5  minutes  with- 
out browning  ;  then  add  the  bread,  stir  and  cook  5  minutes  longer ; 
turn  the  bread  into  a  bowl,  and,  when  cold,  add  1  teaspoonful  salt, 
72  teaspoonful  pepper,  1  teaspoonful  thyme,  and  2  whole  eggs; 
mix  all  the  ingredients  well  together  ;  use  and  finish  the  turkey  as 
in  foregoing  recipe. 

Turkey  roasted  with  Bread  Dressing,  American  Style. 

‚Äî Eemove  the  crust  from  a  1-pound  loaf  of  stale  baker's  bread ;  rub 
white  part  fine,  and  put  the  crumbs  into  a  bowl;  add  2  ounces 
melted  butter,  1  even  teaspoonful  salt,  Vg  even  teaspoonful  pepper, 
1  teaspoonful  thyme,  and  1  well-beaten  egg ;  mix  all  well  together ; 
season  the  crop  and  body  of  a  well-cleaned  turkey  with  1  even  table- 
spoonful  salt,  fill  in  the  bread  dressing,  sew  it  up ;  finish  the  same 
as  in  foregoing  recipe. 

Turkey  roasted  with  Sage  Dressing. ‚Äî Prepare  and  roast 
a  turkey  the  same  as  roasted  turkey  a  I'allemande.  Soak  1  pound 
of  stale  bread  without  the  rind  10  minutes  in  cold  water,  press  out 
all  the  water  through  a  cloth  ;  place  a  saucepan  with  1  gill  of  fine- 
chopped  onions  and  1  tablespoonful  butter  over  the  fire ;  cook  5 
minutes  without  browning ;  add  this  to  the  bread  ;  then  add  4 
ounces  sausage  meat,  Y2  tablespoonful  salt,  Yg  teaspoonful  pepper,  1 
teaspoonful  sage,  and  2  whole  eggs ;  mix  all  well  together,  and  use 
as  directed  in  former  recipe ;  1  tablespoonful  fine-chopped  parsley 
may  be  added. 

Turkey  roasted  with  Chestnut  Dressing.‚Äî Place  a  sauce- 
pan with  IY2  pound  large  chestnuts  over  the  fire,  cover  with  boil- 
ing water,  cook  20  minutes ;  then  drain  off  the  water ;  remove  the 
shells  and  brown  skin ;  put  half  of  the  chestnuts  in  a  saucepan, 
add  1  pint  of  milk,  and  1  ounce  butter ;  cook  until  the  nuts  are 
soft ;  then  mash  them  fine,  turn  them  into  a  bowl,  and  when  cold 
add  1  even  tablespoonful  salt,  1  even  teaspoonful  pepper,  Ys  pound 
sausage  meat,  and  the  remaining  whole  chestnuts ;  mix  all  well  to- 


396  POULTRY. 

gether.  In  the  meantime  singe,  draw,  and  wasli  a  young  turkey 
10  pounds  in  weight;  wipe  it  dry;  season  the  inside  with  Yj 
tablespoonful  salt ;  loosen  the  skin  from  the  breast,  put  a  layer  of 
the  above  dressing  over  the  breast  under  the  skin ;  fill  the  crop  and 
body  with  the  same  dressing,  sew  it  up,  twist  the  wings  backward. 
Thread  a  trussing  needle  with  a  strong,  white  cord,  pass  it  through 
the  thigh  and  body  to  the  other  thigh,  direct  the  needle  back  again, 
and  let  it  come  out  again  at  the  same  thigh  into  which  the  needle 
first  went ;  tie  the  2  cords  together  on  one  side,  cut  off  the  cord ; 
then  run  the  needle  and  cord  through  1  wing,  take  up  the  skin  of 
the  neck,  fasten  it  down  to  the  back,  then  pass  the  needle  through 
the  other  wing,  tighten  and  tie  the  strings  in  the  back,  so  that  the 
wings  and  thighs  are  well  attached  to  the  body.  Then  rub  1  table- 
spoonful  salt  all  over  the  turkey ;  spread  2  ounces  of  butter  over 
the  breast  and  thighs.  Place  the  fowl  in  a  roasting  pan  and  set  it 
in  a  hot  oven ;  roast  and  baste  frequently  with  its  own  gravy ;  as 
soon  as  brown  on  one  side,  turn  it  over ;  continue  until  the  turkey 
has  become  a  delicate  brown  on  all  sides ;  then  add  Yg  pint  of  boil- 
ing water  or  giblet  broth,  and  roast  and  baste  till  done.  Shortly 
before  serving,  lay  the  turkey  on  a  warm  dish  and  remove  the 
threads  and  strings ;  free  the  gravy  from  fat ;  mix  1  tablespoonful 
cornstarch  with  1  gill  of  cold  water ;  add  it  to  the  gravy,  stir,  and 
cook  2  minutes  over  the  fire ;  add  sufficient  giblet  broth  to  make  a 
creamy  sauce,  and  cook  5  minutes ;  strain,  and  serve  with  the  tur- 
key. Serve  with  cranberry  sauce  and  celery  salad ;  also  vegetables, 
like  mashed  potatoes,  stewed  peas,  and  sweet  potatoes,  may  be 
served  with  it.  Turkey  may  be  roasted  without  stuffing ;  or  the 
crop  may  be  stuffed  only. 

Boiled  Turkey  a  rAllemande. ‚Äî Select  a  fine  young  turkey 
5  to  6  pounds  in  weight ;  singe,  draw,  and  wash  it,  run  a  trussing 
needle  with  a  fine  cord  through  the  thigh  and  body  to  the  other 
thigh,  and  tie  it  in  the  back  ;  then  run  it  through  the  wings  and 
the  skin  of  the  neck,  fastening  it  to  the  back.     Place  the  turkey  in 


POULTRY.  397 

a  soup  kettle ;  cover  with  boiling  water ;  add  1  heaping  tablespoon- 
f  ul  salt,  a  large  bouquet,  and  3  onions ;  cover  and  cook  slowly  till 
done ;  15  minutes  before  serving  melt  2  ounces  butter  in  a  saucepan, 
add  1  heaping  tablespoonful  flour,  stir  and  cook  3  minutes ;  then 
add  1  pint  of  the  strained  broth,  and,  if  handy,  1  gill  of  mushroom 
liquor,  6  whole  peppers,  and  Y4  teaspoonful  nutmeg,  cook  5  minutes ; 
strain  into  a  clean  saucepan,  mix  the  yolks  of  2  eggs  with  Y2  cupful 
cream ;  add  it  to  the  sauce,  let  it  get  hot,  but  not  boiling ;  add  1 
tablespoonful  lemon  juice,  and,  if  necessary,  a  little  salt.  Place  the 
turkey  on  a  warm  dish,  remove  the  cord,  and  serve  with  the  sauce ; 
arrange  in  clusters  small  cooked  cauliflower  roses,  18  cooked  carrot 
balls,  and  12  small  cooked  white  onions  around  the  turkey. 

Boiled  Turkey  with  Celery  Sauce. ‚Äî Boil  a  turkey  the  same 
as  in  the  foregoing  recipe.  Boil  until  tender  4  celery  roots  from 
table  celery,  with  Yg  teaspoonful  salt  and  Y2  ounce  butter.  In  the 
meantime  melt  1  ounce  butter  in  a  saucepan ;  add  1  tablespoonful 
flour,  stir  and  cook  3  minutes  ;  add  Y4  pint  of  the  strained  turkey 
broth,  cook  5  minutes ;  when  the  celery  is  done,  cut  it  first  into 
slices,  then  into  narrow  strips,  and  add  it  to  the  sauce ;  mix  the 
yolks  of  2  eggs  with  Y4  cup  of  cream,  add  it  to  the  sauce  ;  add  last 
1  tablespoonful  lemon  juice ;  keep  the  saucepan  a  few  minutes  with- 
out boiling  over  the  fire ;  then  serve  with  the  turkey. 

Turkey  with  Oyster  Sauce. ‚Äî Boil  a  turkey  the  same  as 
turkey  a  I'allemande.  For  the  sauce,  place  18  medium-sized  oys- 
ters without  their  liquor  in  a  saucepan  over  the  fire ;  add  2  table- 
spoonfuls  lemon  juice,  1  even  teaspoonful  salt,  Y2  even  teaspoonful 
pepper,  1  ounce  butter,  stir  and  cook  a  few  minutes  or  until  the 
oysters  begin  to  ruffle  ;  tben  set  them  aside.  Mix  in  a  clean  sauce- 
pan IY2  tablespoonful  flour  with  1  gill  of  cold  water  and  the  yolks 
of  2  eggs  ;  add  slowly  IY2  cupful  strained  turkey  broth ;  stir  this 
over  the  fire  until  just  before  boiling ;  then  add  Y2  cupful  cream  and 
the  oysters,  stir  a  few  minutes  over  the  fire  without  letting  it  boil ; 
taste,  and,  if  necessary,  add  more  salt.     Serve  at  once  with  the 


398  POULTRY. 

turkey.     Boiled  turkey  may  be  served  with  the  following  sauces : 
Egg,  caper,  lobster,  crab,  shrimp,  bechamel,  and  Hollandaise. 

Turkey  roasted  Plain. ‚Äî Singe,  draw,  and  wash  a  young 
turkey,  wipe  it  dry,  and  season  with  1  tablespoonf ul  salt ;  twist  the 
wings  over  the  back,  run  a  small  skewer  through  the  skin  of  the 
neck  and  fasten  it  on  to  the  back,  put  a  skewer  through  the  thigh 
and  body.  Lay  2  ounces  butter  over  the  turkey ;  place  the  pan  in 
a  medium-hot  oven ;  roast  and  baste  frequently  till  the  turkey  is 
light  brown  on  all  sides ;  then  add  a  little  water,  continue  to  roast, 
basting  frequently  till  done,  allowing  15  minutes  to  a  pound. 
Shortly  before  serving  lay  the  turkey  on  a  hot  dish,  remove  the 
strings  and  skewers ;  free  the  gravy  from  fat ;  add  a  little  bouillon, 
let  it  boil  2  minutes ;  then  strain,  and  serve  with  the  turkey. 

Turkey  dressed  with  Truiiles,  French  Style.‚Äî After 
drawing,  singeing,  and  washing  a  good-sized  turkey,  flatten  the 
breastbone.  Melt  1  pound  of  fresh  fine-chopped  leaf  lard,  and  when 
hot  put  in  2  pounds  of  truffles ;  let  it  cool  off  a  little  ;  then  fill  the 
lard  and  truffles  into  the  turkey ;  sew  up,  and  set  in  a  cool  place 
for  2  or  3  days.  When  ready  to  roast,  put  the  turkey  into  a  drip- 
ping pan,  cover  with  thin  slices  of  larding  pork,  and  tie  buttered 
paper  around  it ;  baste  first  with  melted  butter  and  a  little  water, 
afterward  with  its  own  gravy.  Eemove  the  paper  and  pork  Yg  hour 
before  serving ;  sprinkle  with  salt ;  let  the  turkey  get  nice  and 
brown,  basting  frequently  till  done ;  in  serving  take  out  the  truffles, 
cut  the  breast  of  the  fowl  into  even  slices ;  put  them  back  to  their 
former  place  and  lay  the  truffles  around  it.  Serve  with  truffle  sauce. 
A  turkey  may  be  roasted  the  same  way  without  the  truffles.  Pheas- 
ant and  capon  can  be  dressed  and  roasted  in  the  same  way. 

COLD  TURKEY. 

Turkey  a  la  Bechamel. ‚Äî Cut  the  remnants  of  roast  or  boiled 

turkey  into  small  pieces ;   crack  the  bones  and  place  them  in  a 

saucepan,  cover  with  boiling  water,  add  1  onion,  and  boil  1  hour ; 

then  strain  the  broth  through   a  napkin.     Melt  1  tablespoonf  ul 


.  POULTRY.  399 

butter,  add  1  tablespoonful  flour,  stir  a  few  minutes ;  add  lYg  cup- 
ful of  the  turkey  broth,  1  even  teaspoonful  salt,  12  whole  peppers, 
a  small  bouquet,  and,  if  handy,  1  gill  of  mushroom  liquor,  cook  6 
minutes  ;  then  strain  the  sauce  into  a  clean  saucepan,  add  Y2  cupful 
cream  or  milk,  Ys  teaspoonful  nutmeg,  and  IY2  pint  of  the  fine-cut 
turkey  meat ;  let  it  simmer  10  minutes ;  add  lastly  2  tablespoonf  uls 
lemon  juice,  and  serve  on  a  hot  dish  with  a  border  of  nudles  or  rice 
timbales,  croutons,  or  over  toast. 

Turkey  Curry. ‚Äî Place  a  saucepan  with  1  gill  of  fine-chopped 
onions  and  1  ounce  butter  over  the  fire,  cook  5  minutes;  add  Y2 
tablespoonful  curry  powder  and  1  tablespoonful  flour,  stir  and  cook 
2  minutes ;  add  1  cupful  broth,  1  cupful  milk,  1  even  teaspoonful 
salt,  and  IY2  pint  fine-cut  turkey  meat,  cook  slowly  10  minutes ; 
then  serve  in  a  border  of  rice. 

Silan  Curry  of  Turkey. ‚Äî Exactly  the  same  as  in  foregoing 
recipe,  only  adding  1  cupful  fresh  grated  cocoanut  and  1  gill  of 
cream  to  it. 

Turkey  Salad. ‚Äî Cut  remnants  of  cold  cooked  turkey  into 
small  pieces ;  put  them  with  an  equal  amount  of  fine-cut  table 
celery  in  a  salad  dish,  add  2  fine-cut  hard-boiled  eggs ;  then  prepare 
following  mayonnaise  :  Put  2  whole  eggs  into  a  small  saucepan,  beat 
them  with  an  egg  beater  till  very  light ;  add  by  degrees  Ys  cupful 
oil,  then  add  slowly  4  tablespoonfuls  white  vinegar ;  set  the  sauce- 
pan in  hot  water  over  the  fire,  and  stir  till  it  begins  to  thicken  ;  re- 
move, place  in  cold  water  ;  when  perfectly  cold  add  slowly  4  table- 
spoonfuls  more  oil ;  then  add  2  teaspoonfuls  sugar,  1  teaspoonful 
salt,  1  tablespoonful  French  mustard,  and  lastly  Y2  pint  of  whipped 
cream  (or  Y2  cupful  unsweetened  condensed  milk).  Mix  some  of 
the  mayonnaise  with  the  turkey  meat  and  celery  ;  smooth  it  with  a 
knife,  cover  with  the  same  mayonnaise ;  lay  a  border  of  lettuce 
leaves  around  the  edge  of  dish,  and  some  hard-boiled  eggs,  cut  into 
quarters,  tastefully  over  the  salad.  This  salad  can  also  be  made  of 
cold  roasted  veal  or  chicken. 


400  POULTRY. 

Croquettes  of  Cold  Turkey. ‚Äî Cut  remnants  of  cooked  turkey 
into  small  pieces  ;  place  a  saucepan  with  1  ounce  butter  over  the 
fire,  add  1  heaping  tablespoonful  flour,  stir  and  cook  3  minutes  ; 
then  add  lYg  cupful  broth,  1  even  teaspoonful  salt,  G  whole  peppers, 
and  a  bouquet,  cook  5  minutes ;  remove  the  bouquet  and  peppers, 
add  2  cupfuls  turkey  meat,  and,  if  handy,  Yg  cupful  fine-cut  mush- 
rooms, stir  and  cook  10  minutes ;  add  the  yolks  of  3  eggs,  stir  2 
minutes  ;  turn  the  contents  on  to  a  flat  dish,  and  set  in  a  cool 
place.  Thirty  minutes  before  serving,  take  small  portions  the  size 
of  an  egg  with  a  tablespoon  from  the  mixture,  dip  into  beaten  egg, 
roll  in  fresh  grated  bread  crumbs,  and  form  into  cork-shaped  cro- 
quettes. Place  a  frying  pan  with  good  beef  fat  or  lard  over  the  fire, 
when  hot  put  in  as  many  croquettes  as  will  conveniently  lie  in  the 
pan  ;  fry  to  a  fine  golden  color  on  all  sides ;  lay  for  a  few  minutes 
on  blotting  or  brown  paper ;  then  dress  on  a  hot  dish,  and  serve 
with  bechamel  sauce. 

Turkey  and  Oysters. ‚Äî Take  some  roasted  turkey  bones  and 
chop  them  fine  into  pieces ;  place  them  in  a  saucepan,  cover  with 
cold  water ;  as  soon  as  it  boils  add  1  sliced  onion  and  a  bouquet ; 
boil  40  minutes ;  then  strain  off  the  broth.  Melt  1  tablespoonful 
butter  in  a  saucepan,  add  1  tablespoonful  flour,  cook  3  minutes ; 
add  1  pint  of  the  broth,  cook  2  minutes ;  add  1  pint  fine-cut  cooked 
turkey  meat,  cover  and  cook  5  minutes.  Scald  Ya  pint  of  oysters 
in  their  liquor,  then  drain  them  in  a  sieve,  add  the  oysters  to  the 
turkey,  cook  2  minutes  ;  add  pepper  and  salt  to  taste,  and  serve  on 
buttered  toast. 

Cold  Turkey  in  Jelly. ‚Äî Chop  the  cold  turkey  meat  very  fine, 
put  the  cracked  bones,  skin,  and  gravy  in  a  saucepan  with  1  or  2 
calf's  or  pig's  feet  or  1  pound  of  rind  of  fresh  pork,  cover  with 
water ;  add  a  bouquet  and  2  onions  ;  boil  until  the  feet  fall  apart. 
Then  strain  through  a  fine  sieve,  and  reduce  the  liquor  by  boiling  it 
down  to  1  quart ;  add  Ys  cup  of  vinegar,  a  little  sugar,  and  the 
beaten  whites  of  2  eggs ;  boil  slowly  5  minutes,  and  strain  through 


POULTRY.  401 

a  jelly  bag.  Take  an  equal  quantity  of  this  jelly  and  fine-minced 
turkey  meat,  put  them  together  over  the  fire,  and  let  them  simmer 
for  a  few  minutes  ;  then  pour  it  into  a  bowl,  and  set  in  a  cool  place. 
Put  the  remaining  jelly  into  a  separate  dish.  When  ready  to  serve, 
cut  it  into  slices  and  garnish  with  plain-chopped  jelly. 

Turkey  BagO'ftt. ‚Äî Cut  the  cold  turkey  meat  into  small  square 
pieces.  Put  the  cracked  bones,  scraps,  and  gravy  in  a  saucepan, 
cover  with  water ;  add  a  small  bouquet,  1  onion,  boil  1  hour ;  then 
strain  the  broth  through  a  fine  sieve.  Take  for  1  quart  of  turkey 
meat,  3  fine-chopped  onions,  fry  them  in  1  spoonful  butter  light 
brown  ;  add  1  tablespoonf ul  flour,  stir  until  light  brown  ;  add  1  pint 
of  broth,  season  with  1  teaspoonful  salt  and  Yg  teaspoonful  pepper, 
and  boil  5  minutes ;  then  put  in  the  meat,  and  let  simmer  for  10 
minutes.  In  the  meantime  prepare  some  meat  balls :  Chop  2  pork 
chops  fine,  add  a  little  fine-minced  turkey  meat,  Yg  cupful  bread 
crumbs,  2  tablespoonfuls  water,  Ys  tablespoonful  melted  butter,  and 
1  egg ;  season  with  salt  and  pepper.  Shape  the  mixture  into  small 
balls,  and  boil  them  6  minutes  in  salted  water.  Serve  the  ragout  on 
a  hot  dish,  and  lay  the  meat  balls  around  it. 

Boned  Turkey. ‚Äî Singe,  draw,  and  wash  a  fine  plump  young 
turkey  of  8  pounds  ;  cut  off  the  feet  to  the  first  joints,  also  the 
wings  and  the  neck  close  to  the  body  ;  bone  it,  cut  the  skin  through 
to  the  bone  the  whole  length  of  the  back ;  then  loosen  the  flesh 
from  the  bone  with  a  small  knife,  first  the  one  side,  then  the  other, 
being  careful  not  to  make  any  holes  in  the  skin.  Make  an  incision 
from  the  first  joint,  then  bone  both  legs  ;  bone  the  wings  the  same 
way,  so  that  the  entire  skeleton  is  separated  from  the  meat.  Clean 
the  skeleton  and  giblets,  place  them  in  a  soup  kettle  over  the  fire, 
cover  with  cold  water.  Spread  the  turkey  out  on  a  napkin,  the 
skin  toward  the  napkin,  and  with  a  sharp  knife  cut  away  even 
slices  from  the  breast  and  lay  them  on  the  thin  parts,  so  that  the 
turkey  has  an  even  thickness  all  over.  Draw  the  legs  and  wings 
inside,  season  the  inside  with  1  tablespoonful  salt  and  1  teaspoonful 


402  POULTRY. 

white  pepper  evenly  distributed.  Set  the  turkey  meat  aside  until 
the  following  forcemeat  is  prepared  :  Take  2  pounds  of  lean  veal,  1 
pound  pork  tenderloins  or  fresh  pork  off  the  loin,  Yg  pound  larding 
pork  ;  chop  the  3  ingredients  exceedingly  fine  or  have  them  ground 
in  the  machine,  season  with  1  tablespoonful  salt,  1  teaspoonful  pep- 
per, Ya  teaspoonful  nutmeg.  Cut  Y2  pound  of  cooked  beef  tongue 
into  Ys-inch  square  pieces,  cut  12  truffles  the  same  way ;  add 
both  to  the  forcemeat,  add  Ys  gill  of  sherry  wine,  and  4  ounces 
pistachio  nuts  ;  mix  all  well  together,  then  place  the  forcemeat  in  the 
center  of  the  turkey,  draw  the  back  together  and  sew  it  up ;  gently 
lift  it,  and  lay  in  the  center  of  the  napkin ;  roll  carefully  in  the  nap- 
kin, tie  tightly  on  both  ends  and  once  in  the  middle  with  a  tape. 
As  soon  as  the  kettle  with  the  remnants  boils  add  2  onions  with  3 
cloves  stuck  in  each  one,  a  bouquet,  and  Y2  tablespoonful  salt ;  then 
put  in  the  turkey,  cover,  and  boil  slowly  2Y2  hours.  When  done,  re- 
move the  turkey  with  a  skimmer,  letting  it  cool  off  a  little,  cut  the 
tapes  and  roll  the  turkey  over  again  as  before,  and  tightly  tie  on 
both  ends.  Lay  on  a  flat  dish,  cover  with  a  board  the  same  size  as 
the  turkey,  place  2  or  3  flatirons  on  top,  or  some  weight,  let  it 
stand  12  hours. 

Aspic  or  Jelly  for  Boned  Turkey. ‚Äî Strain  the  broth  in 
which  the  turkey  was  boiled  through  a  napkin,  remove  every 
particle  of  fat ;  place  3  pints  broth  in  a  saucepan  over  the  fire ; 
soak  2  ounces  gelatin  in  Ys  pi^t  cold  water  till  soft,  add  it  to  the 
chicken  broth  in  saucepan.  Beat  the  whites  of  2  eggs  to  a  stiff 
froth,  add  the  juice  of  1  lemon  and  a  little  cold  water,  stir  this  into 
the  chicken  broth,  beat  thoroughly  with  an  egg  beater,  and  boil  5 
minutes ;  then  draw  the  kettle  to  side  of  stove,  letting  it  stand  5 
minutes ;  taste,  and  if  not  sour  enough,  add  a  little  vinegar,  and 
more  salt  if  necessary.  In  the  meantime  lay  a  napkin  in  a  sieve, 
place  the  sieve  over  a  saucepan,  then  set  the  saucepan  into  a  vessel 
of  boiling  water  over  the  fire.  Pour  the  jelly  into  the  napkin,  a 
little  at  first ;  then  examine,  and  if  not  clear  enough  pour  it  back 


POULTRY.  403 

again ;  continue  until  all  is  strained  ;  pour  the  jelly  into  a  mold 
and  set  aside  to  cool.  When  ready  to  serve  cut  the  turkey  into 
slices,  arrange  them  nicely  on  a  dish,  and  garnish  with  chopped 
jelly.  Another  way  is  to  pour  some  jelly  before  it  is  firm  on  the 
dish  on  which  the  turkey  is  to  be  served  1  inch  in  thickness  and 
set  aside  till  firm ;  pour  also  jelly  into  small  fancy  molds  and  set 
them  aside  till  firm.  Arrange  the  sliced  turkey  over  the  jelly  on 
the  dish,  open  the  small  molds,  and  lay  the  jelly  in  a  circle  around 
the  dish ;  or  pour  the  aspic  in  a  shallow  tin  pan,  and  when  cold  cut 
into  fancy  shapes. 

Turkey  in  Aspic. ‚Äî Prepare  the  boned  turkey  the  same  as  in 
foregoing  recipe,  take  it  from  the  press,  remove  the  napkin,  and 
wipe  the  turkey  dry  with  a  clean  towel  or  napkin.  Take  a  square 
pan  Y2  inch  larger  all  around  than  the  turkey,  set  it  into  cracked 
ice.  Have  double  the  quantity  of  aspic  prepared  as  in  foregoing 
recipe,  put  sufficient  of  it  into  the  pan  to  cover  the  bottom  ;  when 
this  is  firm  turn  the  form  over  on  its  side,  pour  in  some  cold  aspic, 
let  it  get  firm,  turn  the  form,  pour  in  more  aspic  ;  continue  turning 
the  form  and  adding  aspic  until  the  whole  form  has  obtained  a 
complete  lining  thereof.  Then  cut  the  white  of  hard-boiled  eggs 
and  some  truffles  into  fancy  shapes,  or  instead  boiled  beets,  green 
pickles,  and  lemon  rind  ;  take  each  piece  separately  up  with  a  lard- 
ing needle  ;  have  some  aspic  standing  on  ice,  and  when  it  begins  to 
thicken  dip  the  needle  with  the  decoration  into  the  aspic,  then  lay 
it  into  the  form,  first  on  the  bottom  and  then  on  all  sides  ;  set  the 
form  upright  in  the  ice,  pour  in  more  aspic  so  the  bottom  decora- 
tion is  entirely  covered.  When  firm  lay  in  the  turkey  with  the 
breast  toward  the  decoration,  pour  Yg  pint  of  aspic  in  the  form,  let 
it  get  firm,  then  add  gradually  more  aspic  ;  continue  this  until  the 
form  is  full.  Let  stand  until  it  becomes  firm.  Shortly  before 
serving  take  the  form  from  the  ice,  turn  it  upside  down  on  the  dish 
it  is  to  be  served  in,  hold  a  hot  wet  towel  around  the  form  until  the 
gelatin  slips  out  of  it.     Garnish  with  water  cress  and  serve. 


404  POULTRY. 


GEESE. 


Goose  roasted  with  Apple  Dressing. ‚Äî Singe,  draw,  and  wash 
a  fine,  tender  goose,  wipe  it  dry ;  season  the  inside  with  Yg  even 
tablespoonful  salt ;  then  stuff  it  with  apple  dressing,  described  be- 
low ;  sew  it  up ;  rub  1  tablespoonful  salt  all  over  it ;  turn  the  skin 
of  the  neck  backward  and  secure  it  with  a  small  skewer,  or  sew  it 
on  to  the  back ;  twist  the  wings  back,  and  run  a  skewer  through 
the  thigh  and  body ;  lay  the  goose  in  a  roasting  pan,  spread  1 
tablespoonful  butter  over  the  breast,  set  in  a  hot  oven  to  roast, 
baste  frequently  and  turn  often  till  the  goose  is  light  brown  on  all 
sides ;  then  add  1  cup  of  boiling  water,  continue  to  roast  till  done, 
allowing  15  minutes  to  a  pound.  Place  the  giblets  in  a  saucepan, 
cover  with  cold  water ;  add  Yg  teaspoonf ul  salt,  and  when  it  boils 
add  1  small  onion,  cook  IY2  hour ;  then  strain  the  broth  and  chop 
the  liver  fine.  Shortly  before  serving,  lay  the  goose  on  a  hot  dish, 
remove  skewers  and  thread,  take  off  the  fat  from  the  gravy ;  mix 
1  tablespoonful  of  cornstarch  with  1  gill  of  cold  water,  add  it  to  the 
sauce,  stir  and  cook  3  minutes  on  top  of  the  stove ;  then  add  sufficient 
giblet  broth  to  make  a  creamy  sauce,  boil  5  minutes ;  strain ;  add 
the  fine-chopped  liver,  and  serve  with  the  goose.  Serve  with  Brus- 
sels sprouts  a  la  creme,  apple  sauce,  and  boiled  potatoes. 

Apple  Dressing. ‚Äî Pare  and  cut  into  quarters  8  large  greening 
apples,  remove  the  cores ;  place  the  apples  in  a  saucepan  over  the 
fire ;  add  Ys  cupful  cold  water,  cover  and  cook  till  tender,  but  not 
broken ;  remove,  and  when  cold  rub  4  ounces  stale  baker's  bread 
into  crumbs,  mix  them  with  the  apples;  add  IY2  tablespoonful 
sugar,  1  ounce  melted  butter,  and  1  egg ;  mix  all  well  together,  and 
use  as  directed  above. 

Goose   roasted  with    Potato   Dressing.‚Äî Prepare  a  fine 

young  goose  the  same  way  as  in  foregoing  recipe,  stuff  it  with  potato 
dressing,  finish  the  same  as  in  foregoing  recipe. 

Potato  Dressing. ‚Äî Peel  and  wash  12  medium-sized  potatoes 


POULTRY.  405 

place  them  in  a  saucepan  with.  1  quart  cold  water  over  the  fire,  add 
one  tablespoonful  salt,  cover  and  cook  till  done ;  then  drain  and 
steam  them  for  a  few  minutes  over  the  fire ;  mash  fine,  add  1  ounce, 
butter,  1  even  teaspoonful  white  pepper,  and  the  yolk  of  1  egg ; 
beat  the  white  to  a  stiff  froth  and  add  it  to  the  potatoes.  Melt  1 
ounce  butter  in  a  small  saucepan,  add  3  fine-chopped  white  onions, 
cook  and  stir  5  minutes  without  browning ;  add  them  to  the  pota- 
toes with  1  teaspoonful  thyme;  mix  all  well  together,  and  use 
as  directed  above.     If  liked,  a  little  sage  may  be  added. 

Goose  roasted  with  Raisin  Dressing.‚Äî Place  a  saucepan 
with  IY3  ounce  butter  over  the  fire ;  add  2  cupfuls  fine-sliced  apples, 
1  cupful  seedless  raisins,  1  tablespoonful  currant  or  apple  jelly,  2 
tablespoonfuls  sugar ;  cover  and  cook  till  the  apples  are  done  but 
not  broken ;  then  remove ;  when  cold,  add  2  cupfuls  rolled  zwie- 
back and  1  egg.  Singe,  draw,  and  wash  a  fine  young  goose,  season 
the  inside  with  Y2  tablespoonful  salt,  stuff  it  with  the  filling  de- 
scribed above ;  sew  it  up  and  truss  nicely ;  rub  1  tablespoonful  salt 
all  over  the  goose,  lay  it  in  a  roasting  pan,  spread  1  ounce  butter 
over  the  breast,  set  in  a  hot  oven,  baste  frequently,  turning  the 
goose  often  until  light  brown  all  over ;  then  add  1  cupful  boiling 
water,  continue  to  roast  and  baste  till  done,  adding  a  little  more 
water  if  necessary.  Shortly  before  serving  lay  the  goose  on  a  hot 
dish,  remove  skewers  and  thread ;  free  the  gravy  from  fat,  mix  1 
tablespoonful  cornstarch  with  1  gill  of  cold  water,  add  it  to  the 
gravy,  and  cook  2  minutes  ;  then  add  suflBcient  giblet  broth  to 
make  a  creamy  sauce,  cook  3  minutes ;  strain  and  serve  with  the 
goose. 

Goose  roasted  with  Chestnut  Dressing. ‚Äî Singe,  wash,  and 
draw  a  fine  young  goose,  season  inside  with  Yg  tablespoonful  salt. 
Place  1  pound  large  chestnuts  in  a  saucepan,  cover  with  cold  water, 
cook  20  minutes,  drain  on  a  sieve,  remove  the  shells  and  the  brown 
skin  ;  return  chestnuts  to  saucepan,  cover  with  milk,  add  2  ounces 
butter,  and  cook  till  tender ;  mash  them  fine  with  a  potato  masher. 


406  POULTRY. 

turn  into  a  bowl,  and  when  cold  mix  with  Yg  cupful  grated  bread 
crumbs,  the  fine-chopped  goose  liver,  Yg  pound  sausage  meat,  Y2  even 
tablespoonful  salt,  1  even  teaspoonful  pepper ;  stuff  the  goose  with 
this  mixture,  sew  up,  truss  nicely,  rub  1  tablespoonful  salt  all  over  ; 
spread  2  ounces  butter  over  the  breast,  lay  in  a  roasting  pan  ;  add 
Y2  cupful  boiling  water ;  place  in  a  hot  oven,  roast  and  baste  fre- 
quently till  the  goose  is  done.  (If  the  gravy  should  get  too  brown, 
add  more  water,  but  only  a  little  at  a  time.)  Boil  the  giblets  in 
water  with  1  onion  and  a  little  salt.     Shortly  before  serving  mix 

1  tablespoonful  cornstarch  with  1  gill  of  cold  water ;  lay  the  goose 
on  a  hot  dish ;  remove  the  fat  from  gravy,  add  to  the  gravy  the 
cornstarch,  stir  and  cook  3  minutes ;  then  add  suflficient  giblet 
broth  to  make  a  creamy  sauce,  boil  5  minutes ;  strain,  and  serve 
with  the  goose. 

Goose  a  la  St.  Martin. ‚Äî Singe,  draw,  and  wash  a  young  goose, 
and  stuff  it  with  the  following  forcemeat :  Place  a  small  saucepan 
with  Y2  cupful  fine-chopped  onions  and  1  ounce  butter  over  the  fire, 
cook  5  minutes  without  browning ;  then  remove.  Soak  1  roll  in 
cold  water  till  soft,  press  out  all  the  water ;  put  the  bread  and  onions 
in  a  bowl,  add  Y2  pound  fine-chopped  fresh  pork,  4  ounces  fine- 
chopped  larding  pork,  and  Y2  pound  fine-chopped  veal  (if  veal  is 
not  handy,  add  the  fine-chopped  goose  liver) ;  season  with  Y2  even 
tablespoonful  salt,  1  even  teaspoonful  pepper,  Y2  teaspoonful  nut- 
meg, 1  whole  egg,  2  yolks ;  pound  this  in  a  mortar  well  together. 
Fill  the  forcemeat  into  the  goose,  sew  up,  run  a  skewer  through  the 
thigh  and  body,  twist  the  wings  backward,  season  with  1  tablespoon- 
ful salt ;  place  the  goose  in  a  double  pan,  pour  over  2  ounces  melted 
butter,  put  on  the  cover,  and  set  in  a  hot  oven  ;  open  the  pan  every 
15  minutes,  and  baste  the  goose  well  with  its  own  gravy ;  roast  from 

2  to  3  hours.  In  the  meantime  place  1  pound  large  chestnuts  in  a 
saucepan  over  the  fire,  cook  20  minutes ;  drain,  and  remove  the 
shells  and  brown  skins ;  return  to  the  fire,  add  1  pint  boiling  water, 
1  teaspoonful  sugar,  and  boil  till  tender  ;  melt  Y2  tablespoonful  but- 


POULTRY.  407 

ter,  add  Yg  tablespoonf  ul  flour,  stir  and  cook  3  minutes ;  add  1  cup 
of  stock  or  boiling  water  with  1  teaspoonful  beef  extract,  a  small 
bouquet,  and  6  whole  peppers,  cook  5  minutes ;  then  strain  through 
a  sieve  into  a  clean  saucepan,  season  with  Yg  even  teaspoonful  salt ; 
drain  the  chestnuts,  add  them  to  the  sauce,  cook  a  few  minutes, 
then  set  aside.  When  ready  to  serve,  lay  the  goose  on  to  a  carving 
board,  remove  threads  and  skewers,  carve  it  nicely ;  cut  the  force- 
meat into  slices  ;  lay  the  carved  meat  on  a  warm  plate,  arrange  the 
chestnuts  in  clusters  alternately  with  the  slices  of  forcemeat  in  a 
circle  around  the  dish,  and  serve.  Kemove  all  fat  from  the  gravy, 
add  1  gill  of  stock,  let  it  boil  a  few  minutes ;  then  strain,  and  serve 
with  the  goose. 

Goose  Braisee  a  la  Flamande. ‚Äî Place  in  a  soup  kettle  a 
well-cleaned  young  goose,  cover  with  stock  or  boiling  water  ;  add  2 
onions,  a  small  carrot,  a  bouquet,  1  tablespoonful  salt,  12  whole 
peppers,  and  Yg  bottle  of  Ehine  wine,  and  boil  slowly  till  done.  At 
the  same  time  cut  a  medium-sized  Savoy  cabbage  into  quarters  or  6 
pieces ;  place  them  in  a  saucepan,  cover  with  boiling  water,  cook  20 
minutes ;  then  drain  oif  the  water.  Place  1  pound  lean  bacon  in  a 
saucepan,  cover  with  cold  water,  boil  1  hour ;  remove  it  to  a  clean 
saucepan,  put  the  cabbage  on  top  the  bacon,  add  six  small  sausages, 
2  onions,  and  a  bouquet,  cover  with  fresh  boiling  water,  and  cook 
till  done.  Thirty  minutes  before  serving  lay  the  goose  in  a  roasting 
pan,  add  1  pint  of  the  strained  broth  in  which  the  goose  was  boiled, 
place  in  a  hot  oven,  baste  frequently,  and  roast  until  it  has  a  nice 
glaze ;  then  carve  nicely,  and  lay  on  a  warm  dish.  Strain  the  broth 
in  which  the  goose  was  boiled,  remove  the  fat,  reduce  the  broth 
by  boiling.  Melt  1  tablespoonful  butter  in  a  saucepan,  add  1  heap- 
ing tablespoonful  flour,  stir  and  cook  3  minutes ;  add  1  pint  of  the 
broth  and  the  gravy  from  the  pan,  boil  5  minutes.  Drain  the  cab- 
bage on  a  sieve,  put  it  into  a  saucepan,  add  half  of  the  sauce,  toss  it 
for  a  few  minutes  over  the  fire  ;  then  dress  the  cabbage  on  a  warm 
dish,  lay  the  carved  goose  over  it,  the  best  pieces  on  top,  and  arrange 


408  POULTKY. 

the  bacon  and  sausages  in  a  circle  around  the  dish  ;  serve  the  re- 
maining sauce  in  a  sauce  bowl. 

Goose  a  la  Chipolata. ‚Äî Season  a  well-cleaned  young  goose 
‚ñÝwith  1  tablespoonful  salt,  lay  it  in  a  double  roasting  pan,  pour  over 
2  ounces  melted  butter,  and  put  the  goose  fat  in  the  bottom  of  pan ; 
cover  the  pan  tightly,  and  place  it  in  a  hot  oven  to  roast ;  baste  the 
goose  with  its  own  gravy  every  15  minutes,  roast  until  done.  Re- 
move the  shells  and  brown  skins  from  Yg  pound  large  chestnuts, 
place  the  nuts  in  a  saucepan,  cover  with  stock,  add  1  teaspoonful 
sugar,  and  boil  till  done  and  nearly  dry.  Melt  1  ounce  butter  in  a 
saucepan,  add  1  tablespoonful  fine-cut  raw  ham,  1  fine-chopped  on- 
ion, 1  parsley  root,  1  bay  leaf,  and  12  whole  peppers,  stir  and  cook  5 
minutes ;  add  1  tablespoonful  flour,  stir  and  cook  2  minutes ;  add 
IY2  cupful  broth  or  boiling  water  with  1  teaspoonful  beef  extract,  1 
even  teaspoonful  salt,  cook  5  minutes ;  then  strain  the  sauce  into  a 
clean  saucepan,  add  Y2  pint  small  mushrooms,  6  small  truffles,  1  gill 
of  Madeira  or  sherry  wine,  a  little  Cayenne  pepper,  cook  slowly  10 
minutes.  Carve  and  lay  the  goose  on  a  warm  dish,  the  best  pieces 
on  top,  put  Ys  pint  of  cooked  carrot  balls,  Y2  pii^t  of  small  cooked 
onions,  the  ruffles,  and  mushrooms  in  small  clusters  in  a  circle 
around  the  dish ;  pour  a  little  sauce  over  the  vegetables,  and  serve 
the  remaining  in  a  sauce  bowk 

Goose,  Pickled. ‚Äî Cut  a  well-cleaned  goose  into  pieces  as  a 
chicken  is  cut  for  fricassee.  Place  the  meat  in  a  saucepan,  cover 
with  half  water  and  half  vinegar,  season  with  1  tablespoonful 
salt,  1  tablespoonful  sugar,  1  teaspoonful  whole  peppers,  2  bay 
leaves,  3  onions  with  3  cloves  stuck  into  each  one,  cover  and  cook 
till  tender ;  then  lay  the  meat  into  a  stone  jar,  strain  the  broth,  re- 
move the  fat,  pour  the  broth  over  the  meat ;  leave  the  jar  open  till 
cold,  then  tie  it  up  with  paper,  and  keep  it  in  a  cool  place.  This 
may  be  served  cold.  If  wanted  hot,  place  the  desired  quantity  of 
meat  and  broth  in  a  saucepan  over  the  fire ;  as  soon  as  it  begins  to 
boil  melt  1  ounce  butter  in  a  saucepan,  add  1  tablespoonful  flour, 


POULTRY.  409 

stir  and  cook  2  minutes ;  add  it  to  the  saucepan,  boil  5  minutes ; 
then  serve  with  farina  or  potato  dumplings  or  plain  boiled  potatoes. 
Old  geese  may  be  taken  for  pickling ;  if  they  should  have  a  tendency 
to  be  oily,  put  them  in  a  large  kettle  of  boiling  water,  add  to  every 
goose  1  tablespoonf ul  baking  soda,  boil  30  minutes ;  then  take  them 
out  and  plunge  into  cold  water ;  wash  the  geese  inside  and  outside 
several  times  in  cold  water,  then  cut  them  into  pieces,  and  proceed 
as  directed  above. 

Ganseklein  or  Schwarzsauer. ‚Äî Take  the  wings,  feet,  neck, 
heart,  gizzard,  and  the  blood  of  several  geese.  Put  the  feet  for  1 
minute  into  boiling  water,  then  take  them  out,  rub  off  the  skin,  cut 
off  the  nails,  remove  the  eyes  from  the  head,  chop  off  the  bill,  cut 
the  neck  into  3,  the  wings  into  2  pieces ;  wash  all  in  cold  water, 
place  in  a  saucepan,  and  cover  with  water.  Set  the  saucepan  over 
the  fire,  add  to  every  quart  of  water  Yg  tablespoonful  salt,  2  onions 
with  3  cloves  stuck  into  each  one,  1  bay  leaf,  12  whole  peppers,  3 
sprigs  of  parsley  tied  together  with  1  sprig  of  thyme,  cover  and 
cook  till  tender.  Melt  2  ounces  butter  in  a  saucepan,  add  2  table- 
spoonfuls  flour,  stir  and  cook  2  minutes ;  add  1  quart  from  the 
broth  in  which  the  goose  trimmings  are  cooked,  boil  5  minutes ; 
add  the  blood  and  sufficient  vinegar  to  give  it  a  nice  sour  taste ; 
add  1  tablespoonful  sugar  and  Y4  teaspoonful  pepper,  cook  2  min- 
utes ;  then  strain  into  a  clean  saucepan  ;  take  the  goose  pieces  with 
a  skimmer  from  the  saucepan,  put  them  in  the  sauce,  and  serve 
with  bread,  farina,  or  potato  dumplings. 

Pate  Froifl  de  Foie  Gras. ‚Äî Trim  nicely  2  large  fat  goose 
livers,  procure  also  1  pound  of  truffles ;  cut  2  ounces  of  truffles  into 
narrow  strips,  and  lard  the  livers  with  them ;  place  the  livers  and 
the  remaining  truffles  into  a  bowl,  season  them  with  1  tablespoon- 
ful spiced  salt ;  chop  the  trimmings  of  liver  and  truffles  very  fine. 
Fry  2  ounces  of  larding  pork  in  a  saucepan  until  it  begins  to  turn  a 
light  delicate  brown,  add  2  fine-chopped  onions,  cook  5  minutes 
without  browning ;  add  the  fine-chopped  liver  trimmings ;  remove 


410  POULTRY. 

from  fire,  put  it  in  a  bowl ;  add  1  pound  fine-chopped  fresh  fat 
pork,  1  pound  fine-chopped  pork  tenderloin,  and  Yg  gill  of  rum  ; 
pound  these  ingredients  to  a  fine  paste,  season  with  1  tablespoonful 
spiced  salt  (or  season  to  taste).  Put  a  layer  1  inch  thick  of  this 
forcemeat  into  a  tureen,  over  this  1  liver  cut  into  halves  ;  cover  with 
a  layer  of  forcemeat  and  truffles,  lay  over  the  halves  of  the  second 
liver  ;  again  cover  with  forcemeat  and  lay  over  this  slices  of  larding 
pork,  then  put  on  the  cover  of  the  tureen  and  place  it  in  a  pan  of 
hot  water.  Set  the  pan  in  a  medium-hot  oven,  and  bake  from  2  to 
2y2  hours,  then  remove  and  set  aside  to  cool.  If  the  pdte  is  to  be 
used  at  once ;  boil  1  gill  of  Madeira  wine  with  1  spoonful  beef  ex- 
tract for  5  minutes  ;  pour  it  over  the  pdte  while  yet  warm.  If  in- 
tended to  be  kept  for  any  length  of  time,  remove  the  pork,  pour 
over  first  some  melted  aspic,  and  then  some  melted  leaf  lard,  put  on 
the  cover,  pasting  a  strip  of  paper  around  it.  The  pate  is  generally 
served  in  a  border  of  clear  aspic.  Dip  a  tablespoon  into  hot  water, 
then  cut  with  the  spoon  small  portions  the  size  of  an  egg  out  of  the 
pdte,  lay  them  in  the  border,  and  put  on  ice  till  serving.  In  place  of 
baking  the  pdte  in  a  tureen,  a  tin  form  with  a  tight-fitting  cover 
may  be  taken.  All  pates,  either  made  in  tureens  or  tin  forms,  are 
served  the  same  way. 

Aspic  de  Foie  Gras. ‚Äî Lard  2  large  fat  goose  livers  with  truf- 
fles, and  place  them  on  a  low  saucepan ;  place  another  saucepan 
with  4  ounces  fine-cut  larding  pork  over  the  fire,  fry  for  a  few  min- 
utes ;  add  1  gill  of  fine-chopped  onions,  12  whole  peppers,  and  a 
bouquet,  cook  and  stir  5  minutes  ;  add  1  pint  of  chicken  or  veal 
broth,  Yg  gill  of  sherry  or  Madeira  wine,  1  even  teaspoonful  salt, 
and  cook  15  minutes ;  strain  the  liquid  over  the  livers,  cover  and 
place  over  a  moderate  fire,  and  cook  20  minutes  ;  remove  from  fire, 
let  the  livers  cool  in  the  liquor,  cut  them  into  slices ;  dip  each  piece 
separately  into  white  Chanfroix  sau.ce,  and  set  them  on  ice  till  firm. 
Set  a  plain  form  into  cracked  ice,  pour  in  some  aspic ;  as  soon  as 
firm,  decorate  it  with  the  white  of  hard-boiled  eggs  cut  into  fancy 


POULTRY.  411 

shapes  and  truffles  or  boiled  beef  tongue  ;  pour  over  a  little  aspic  ; 
when  firm  put  in  a  layer  of  liver  pieces,  cover  with  aspic ;  when 
cold  put  in  the  remaining  liver,  fill  the  form  with  aspic,  and  set 
aside  till  firm.  When  ready  to  serve,  turn  the  aspic  on  to  a  round 
dish,  and  garnish  with  water  cress.  Meat  of  all  kinds  of  game 
may  be  prepared  in  the  same  way. 

Escalops  de  Foie  Gras  a  la  Maintenon.‚Äî Cut  3  fat  goose 
livers  into  Yi-inch-thick  slices  15  minutes  before  serving;  season 
with  1  even  tablespoonful  salt,  roll  in  flour,  and  fry  light  brown 
in  butter.  Prepare  a  fine  chicken  or  veal  forcemeat,  put  it  into  a 
well-buttered  border  form,  set  the  form  in  a  pan  of  hot  water,  cover 
with  buttered  paper,  and  bake  25  minutes  in  a  medium-hot  oven. 
When  ready  to  serve,  turn  the  forcemeat  border  on  to  a  warm  dish, 
place  the  escalops  on  top,  and  lay  on  each  one  1  slice  of  truffle 
(which  should  have  cooked  a  few  minutes  in  Madeira  wine),  put 
in  the  center  a  ragout  prepared  as  follows  :  Prepare  1  pint  Madeira 
sauce,  add  Yg  pi'it  small  canned  mushrooms,  3  truffles  cut  into 
slices,  cook  10  minutes ;  add  12  small  chicken  balls  or  veal  force- 
meat balls  previously  boiled  in  salted  water.  Pour  the  ragout  in 
the  center  of  the  border,  and  serve. 

Escalops  de  Foie  Gras  a  la  Badoise.‚Äî Cut  2  fat  goose  livers 
into  Yi-inch-thick  slices  (escalops)  ;  season  with  salt  and  pepper, 
dust  with  flour,  then  dip  in  beaten  egg,  and  cover  with  mixed  fresh 
grated  bread  crumbs  and  grated  Parmesan  cheese  ;  fry  light  brown 
in  boiling  fat ;  lay  them  in  a  circle  on  a  low  forcemeat  border,  and 
place  in  the  center  a  chestnut  puree.  Serve  with  Spanish  sauce,  or 
place  the  escalops  in  two  rows  on  a  warm  dish,  and  put  between 
them  the  chestnut  puree. 

Escalops  de  Foie  Gras  a  la  Daupliine.‚Äî Place  a  saucepan 
with  1  fine-chopped  onion  and  1  ounce  butter  over  the  fire,  add  1 
bay  leaf  and  12  whole  peppers,  cook  5  minutes ;  then  add  1  pint  of 
stock,  cook  15  minutes.  Season  2  goose  livers  with  1  teaspoonful 
salt,  place  them  in  a  saucepan,  strain  over  the  broth,  cook  slowly  20 
27 


412  POULTRY. 

minutes ;  then  remove,  and  let  the  livers  cool  in  the  broth.  Pre- 
pare a  Villeroi  sauce,  cut  the  livers  into  even  slices,  dip  into  the 
sauce,  lay  them  on  a  flat  dish,  let  stand  till  the  sauce  is  firm ;  then 
dip  them  into  beaten  egg  and  fresh-grated  bread  crumbs,  and  fry  in 
hot  fat.  Arrange  the  escalops  in  a  circle  on  a  low  forcemeat  border, 
and  put  in  the  center  a  puree  of  green  peas,  or  arrange  the  liver  in 
two  rows  on  a  hot  dish,  leaving  a  space  between  the  rows;  fill  the 
space  with  stewed  green  peas. 

Petites  Caisses  de  Foie  Gras. ‚Äî Take  2  goose  livers,  season 
them  with  salt  and  pepper  ;  roll  them  in  flour,  and  fry  light  brown 
in  half  butter  and  half  lard.  Melt  in  a  small  saucepan  1  ounce 
butter,  add  1  fine-chopped  onion,  cook  5  minutes  ;  then  add  2  table- 
spoonfuls  Ehine  wine,  1  cupful  chicken  broth,  cook  a  few  minutes  ; 
cut  the  livers  into  small  pieces,  add  them  to  the  sauce,  season  with  1 
even  teaspoonful  salt ;  Yg  even  teaspoonful  pepper,  cook  5  minutes 
longer;  then  prepare  a  chicken  forcemeat.  Brush  the  sides  of  6 
small  paper  boxes  with  buttei",  and  dry  them  in  the  oven  for  a  few 
minutes  ;  press  evenly  on  the  sides  and  bottom  of  each  box  a  spoon- 
ful of  the  forcemeat ;  put  the  above  preparation  in  the  center ; 
cover  each  box  with  a  thin  slice  of  larding  pork,  and  bake  12  min- 
utes in  a  hot  oven ;  remove  the  pork,  put  a  little  sauce  over  each 
one,  and  serve. 

Petites  Bouchees  de  Foie  Gras. ‚Äî Wash  and  season  with  pep- 
per and  salt  2  goose  livers,  roll  in  flour  and  fry  them  light  brown  in 
butter.  Melt  in  a  small  saucepan  1  ounce  butter  and  2  tablespoon- 
fuls  of  fine-chopped  onion,  cook  5  minutes;  then  add  4  chopped 
mushrooms,  1  fine-chopped  truffle,  1  tablespoonful  fine-cut  boiled 
ham,  1  teaspoonful  fine-chopped  parsley,  cook  5  minutes;  add  a 
small  tablespoonful  flour,  cook  2  minutes ;  then  add  2  tablespoonfuls 
white  wine,  1  cupful  chicken  broth,  cook  a  few  minutes ;  cut  the 
livers  into  small  pieces,  add  them  to  the  sauce,  season  with  1  even 
teaspoonful  salt,  Ya  even  teaspoonful  pepper,  cook  5  minutes  ;  fill 
this  into  6  hot  bouchees  (patty  cases),  and  serve.     (For  the  prepara- 


POULTRY.  413 

tion  of  bronchees,  see  my  book  Desserts  and  Salads,  Jelly  Tarts, 
recipe  711.) 

DUCK. 

Duck  roasted  a  PAllemande. ‚Äî Select  a  fine  young  duck, 
singe,  draw,  and  wash  it  quickly  in  cold  water,  dry  it  with  a  clean 
towel ;  season  the  duck  inside  with  1  teaspoonful  salt,  then  set  aside 
until  the  filling  is  prepared.  Place  a  saucepan  with  1  tablespoonful 
butter  over  the  fire ;  add  1  cupful  seedless  raisins,  Yg  cupful  cur- 
rants, 1  tablespoonful  currant  or  apple  jelly,  2  tablespoonfuls  of 
sugar,  and  1  heaping  pint  peeled  and  sliced  apples ;  cover  and  cook 
till  the  apples  are  tender,  but  not  broken ;  then  turn  the  contents 
of  saucepan  into  a  bowl,  and  when  cold  add  %  cupful  grated  bread 
crumbs  and  1  egg,  and  mix  all  together ;  stuff  the  duck  with  this, 
sew  it  up,  twist  the  wings  over  the  back,  run  a  skewer  through  the 
thighs  and  body ;  rub  1  even  tablespoonful  salt  all  over  the  duck, 
lay  it  in  a  roasting  pan,  spread  2  ounces  butter  over  the  breast,  set 
the  pan  in  a  medium-hot  oven  to  roast,  baste  frequently  until  the 
duck  is  light  brown  on  all  sides ;  then  add  Yg  pint  of  the  giblet 
broth  described  below ;  continue  to  roast,  basting  frequently  until 
the  duck  is  done  (if  the  gravy  should  get  too  brown,  add  a  little 
more  broth).  Place  the  well-cleaned  feet,  giblets,  and  neck  in  a 
saucepan,  cover  with  cold  water  ;  when  it  boils,  add  Y2  teaspoonful 
salt  and  1  onion,  boil  lYs  hour ;  then  strain  the  broth  into  a  clean 
saucepan.  Ten  minutes  before  serving,  lay  the  duck  on  a  warm 
dish,  free  it  from  threads  and  skewers ;  remove  the  fat  from  the 
gravy ;  mix  1  tablespoonful  cornstarch  with  Y2  gill  of  cold  water,  add 
it  to  the  gravy,  stir  and  cook  3  minutes  on  top  the  stove ;  add  sufii- 
cient  giblet  broth  to  make  a  creamy  sauce,  cook  5  minutes ;  then 
strain  the  sauce  into  a  small  saucepan  ;  mash  the  boiled  duck  liver 
with  a  spoon  or  grate  it,  then  add  it  to  the  sauce,  also  a  small  piece 
of  butter,  and  stir  2  minutes  over  the  fire  ;  then  pour  it  in  a  sauce 
bowl,  and  serve  with  the  duck. 

Duck  roasted  a  rAmericaine.‚Äî Select  a  fine  young  duck 
weighing  about  4  pounds ;  singe,  draw,  and  wash  it  in  cold  water 


414  POULTRY. 

and  dry  it  with  a  clean  towel,  season  the  inside  with  1  teaspoonful 
salt,  and  stuff  it  with  a  preparation  made  as  follows :  Peel  and  wash 
8  medium-sized  potatoes ;  place  them  in  a  saucepan,  with  1  quart 
cold  water,  over  the  fire ;  add  1  tablespoonful  salt,  cover  and  boil 
till  done,  then  drain  off  the  water ;  return  the  saucepan  for  a  few 
minutes  to  the  fire  to  dry  the  potatoes,  then  mash  them  fine.  Melt 
2  ounces  butter  in  a  saucepan,  add  1  gill  of  fine-chopped  onions, 
cover  and  cook  5  minutes  without  browning  the  onions ;  add  them 
to  the  potatoes ;  also  add  Y2  even  teaspoonful  pepper,  Yg  even  tea- 
spoonful  salt,  1  teaspoonful  thyme,  V*  teaspoonful  sage,  the  yolk  of 
1  egg,  and  last  the  whites  beaten  to  a  stiff  froth  ;  mix  all  well  to- 
gether ;  stuff  this  into  the  duck,  sew  it  up,  run  a  skewer  through 
the  body  and  thigh  ;  rub  1  even  tablespoonful  salt  all  over  the  duck, 
lay  it  in  a  roasting  pan,  and  spread  2  ounces  butter  over  the  breast; 
set  the  pan  in  a  medium-hot  oven  to  roast ;  baste  and  turn  fre- 
quently until  the  duck  is  of  a  light-brown  color.  Place  the  giblets 
in  a  saucepan,  cover  with  cold  water ;  add  Y2  teaspoonful  salt,  and 
when  it  boils  add  1  onion,  cook  IV2  hour ;  then  strain  the  broth. 
As  soon  as  the  duck  is  of  a  light-brown  color  on  all  sides,  add  1  cup- 
ful giblet  broth ;  roast  and  baste  till  done.  Shortly  before  serving 
l^y  the  duck  on  a  warm  dish,  remove  skewer  and  threads ;  free  the 
gravy  from  the  fat,  mix  Y2  tablespoonful  cornstarch  with  a  little 
cold  water,  add  it  to  the  gravy,  stir  and  cook  3  minutes  on  top  the 
stove ;  add  sufficient  giblet  broth  to  make  a  creamy  sauce,  cook 
5  minutes ;  then  strain ;  pour  the  sauce  into  a  sauce  bowl,  and 
serve  with  the  duck.  The  giblets  may  be  chopped  fine  and  added 
to  the  gravy  if  liked. 

Duck  roasted  in  Butter. ‚Äî Select  a  pair  of  fine  young  ducks, 
singe,  draw,  wash,  and  wipe  them  dry ;  season  each  one  with  1  table- 
spoonful salt,  rub  the  salt  in  and  outside  all  over  the  duck ;  lay 
them  in  a  roasting  pan,  pour  over  each  one  2  tablespoonfuls  melted 
butter ;  place  the  pan  in  a  medium-hot  oven  (have  some  melted 
butter  in  small  saucepan,  standing  on  side  the  stove),  roast  and 


POULTRY.  415 

baste  the  ducks  frequently  with  melted  butter ;  if  the  gravy  in  the 
pan  should  become  too  brown  and  show  a  tendency  to  burn,  pour 
Y2  gill  of  cold  water  in  the  bottom  of  the  pan ;  this  will  check  the 
burning  at  once ;  but  if  the  oven  is  at  a  medium  heat  this  will  not 
be  necessary.  When  ready  to  serve  lay  the  ducks  on  a  warm  dish  ; 
remove  the  fat  from  the  gravy,  add  a  little  bouillon  or  broth  to  the 
gravy,  boil  3  minutes ;  then  strain  and  serve  with  the  duck.  Serve 
with  apple  Jelly  and  lettuce  salad. 

Salmi  of  Duck. ‚Äî Procure  a  fine  young  duck;  singe,  draw, 
and  wash  it ;  cut  oif  the  wings,  breast,  and  legs ;  lay  the  feet  for  1 
minute  into  boiling  water,  then  take  them  out,  rub  off  the  skin,  and 
wash  them  in  cold  water ;  place  them,  with  the  neck,  back,  and  gib- 
lets of  the  duck,  in  a  saucepan ;  add  1  quart  of  cold  water  and  Y2  tea- 
spoonful  salt ;  set  the  saucepan  over  the  fire ;  when  it  begins  to  boil 
add  1  onion  and  a  bouquet,  cook  1  hour ;  then  strain  the  broth  into 
a  clean  saucepan ;  season  the  duck  with  1  even  tablespoonf ul  of  salt 
and  1  even  teaspoonf  ul  pepper.  Place  a  saucepan  with  2  ounces  of 
butter  over  the  fire,  put  in  the  duck  pieces,  cover  and  cook  20  min- 
utes, turning  them  often  with  a  fork.  In  the  meantime  melt  1  ounce 
butter  in  a  saucepan,  add  1  tablespoonful  flour,  stir  and  cook  3  min- 
utes ;  then  add  1  pint  of  the  broth  mentioned  above,  also  1  gill  of 
Madeira  or  sherry  wine,  cook  5  minutes,  and  add  it  to  the  duck ;  add 
2  tablespoonfuls  lemon  juice,  cook  slowly  15  minutes.  Dress  the 
salmi  on  a  warm  dish,  the  best  pieces  on  top,  and  decorate  with  6 
heart-shaped  bread  croutons. 

Salmi  of  Duck  a  la  Milanaise. ‚Äî Out  the  wings,  breast,  and 
legs  from  2  fine,  well-cleaned  young  ducks ;  place  the  backs  in  a 
roasting  pan,  pour  over  a  little  melted  butter,  roast  10  minutes ;  then 
remove,  chop  fine,  and  put  them  in  a  saucepan.  In  the  meantime 
place  the  well-cleaned  feet,  giblets,  and  neck  in  a  saucepan  over  the 
fire ;  cover  with  1  quart  cold  water,  add  1  teaspoonful  salt ;  when 
it  begins  to  boil  add  1  onion,  a  small  piece  of  carrot,  13  whole  pep- 
pers, and  a  bouquet,  boil  40  minutes ;  then  strain  the  broth  over 


416  POULTRY. 

the  chopped  backs  in  the  saucepan,  set  it  over  the  fire,  cook  20 
minutes ;  then  strain  the  broth  into  a  saucepan.  At  the  same  time 
place  a  saucepan  with  2  ounces  butter  over  the  fire,  add  the  breast, 
wings,  and  legs ;  season  with  1  even  tablespoonful  salt,  1  even  tea- 
spoonful  pepper,  Yg  teaspoonful  nutmeg,  cover  and  cook  15  min- 
utes, turning  the  pieces  often  with  a  fork.  In  the  meantime  place 
a  saucepan  with  1  ounce  of  butter  and  1  fine-chopped  onion  over 
the  fire ;  add  1  bay  leaf  and  12  whole  peppers,  cook  5  minutes 
without  browning ;  then  add  1  tablespoonful  flour,  cook  and  stir  3 
minutes ;  add  Yg  pi^t  canned  tomatoes  and  1  pint  of  broth  described 
above,  cook  10  minutes ;  then  strain  the  sauce,  and  add  it  to  the 
ducks  in  saucepan ;  add  1  gill  of  cooked  beef  tongue  cut  into  small 
narrow  strips,  10  fine-cut  mushrooms,  cook  till  done.  Dress  the 
ducks  on  a  warm  dish,  and  garnish  with  slices  of  fried  hominy  or 
slices  of  bread  fried  in  butter. 

Duck  a  la  Taleiicia. ‚Äî Cut  the  wings,  breast,  and  legs  from  2 
young  ducks,  season  them  with  1  tablespoonful  salt,  Y2  teaspoonful 
pepper.  Place  a  saucepan  with  2  ounces  of  butter  over  the  fire ; 
add  the  wings,  breast,  and  legs ;  cover  and  cook  20  minutes,  turning 
the  pieces  over  occasionally  with  a  fork.  Chop  the  2  backs  of  the 
ducks  into  small  pieces ;  place  them  in  a  saucepan  with  1  ounce 
butter  over  the  fire ;  stir  and  cook  10  minutes ;  add  IY2  pint  of 
broth  (made  from  the  cleaned  feet,  neck,  and  giblets  of  the  ducks), 
cook  20  minutes ;  then  strain  the  stock.  Melt  1  tablespoonful  but- 
ter in  a  small  saucepan,  add  1  tablespoonful  flour,  stir  and  cook  3 
minutes;  add  the  stock  described  above,  also  Ys  gi^l  of  Madeira 
wine,  2  tablespoonfuls  lemon  juice,  and  1  cupful  stoned  olives,  pre- 
viously parboiled  in  water ;  season  with  1  even  teaspoonful  salt,  and 
Ys  even  teaspoonful  pepper,  boil  5  minutes  ;  then  add  this  sauce  to 
the  ducks  in  saucepan,  cook  until  tender ;  then  serve.  Dress  on  a 
warm  dish,  and  garnish  with  a  border  of  farina  dumplings,  fry  a  few 
tablespoonfuls  grated  bread  crumbs  brown  in  butter,  sprinkle  them 
over  the  dumplings,  and  serve. 


POULTRY.  417 

Duck  a  la  Catalonia. ‚Äî Cut  off  the  wings,  breasts,  and  legs 
from  2  well-cleaned  young  ducks,  season  with  1  tablespoonf ul  salt 
and  Ys  teaspoonful  pepper.  Place  a  saucepan  with  2  ounces  fine-cut 
larding  pork  over  the  fire,  fry  till  it  begins  to  turn  straw-color  ;  add 
1  ounce  butter  or  olive  oil,  a  small  clove  of  bruised  garlic,  and  the 
duck  pieces ;  cover  and  cook  20  minutes.  Place  the  backs  of  the 
ducks  in  a  saucepan,  cover  with  cold  water,  add  Yg  teaspoonful  salt ; 
when  it  boils  add  1  onion  and  a  bouquet,  boil  40  minutes ;  then 
strain  the  broth  into  a  clean  saucepan.  Melt  1  ounce  butter  in  a 
saucepan,  add  Ys  giU  fine-chopped  onions,  1  tablespoonful  fine-cut 
raw  ham,  1  tablespoonful  grated  carrots,  1  bay  leaf,  12  whole  pep- 
pers, stir  and  cook  5  minutes ;  add  1  tablespoonful  flour,  stir  and 
cook  2  minutes ;  add  lYa  pint  of  broth  mentioned  above,  cook 
slowly  10  minutes ;  then  strain,  add  it  to  the  duck  in  saucepan,  and 
cook  till  tender.  Five  minutes  before  serving  add  2  tablespoonfuls 
lemon  juice.  At  the  same  time  place  a  saucepan  with  Ys  pi^t  of 
small  well-cleaned  white  onions  over  the  fire,  add  Ys  teaspoonful  salt, 
cook  10  minutes ;  then  drain  on  a  sieve  and  return  them  to  the 
saucepan,  add  1  teaspoonful  butter,  Y4  teaspoonful  salt ;  toss  them 
for  a  few  minutes  over  the  fire,  then  set  aside.  Place  at  the  same 
time  1  pint  carrot  balls  with  Y2  tablespoonful  sugar  in  a  saucepan 
over  the  fire,  cover  with  boiling  water,  and  cook  till  done ;  then 
drain  off  the  water,  add  Y2  ounce  butter  and  Y4  teaspoonful  salt, 
toss  them  for  a  few  minutes  over  the  fire,  add  them  with  the  onions 
to  the  duck,  cook  5  minutes ;  remove  from  fire  and  serve  on  a  warm 
dish. 

Salmi  of  Ducklings. ‚Äî Season  a  pair  of  young  ducks  with 
salt  and  pepper,  place  them  in  a  roasting  pan,  spread  over  the 
breasts  and  thighs  2  ounces  butter,  place  the  pan  in  a  medium-hot 
oven,  roast  and  baste  frequently  with  melted  butter  till  done.  Ee- 
move  the  ducks  from  the  pan,  cut  off  the  wings,  breasts,  and  legs, 
chop  the  carcasses  into  small  pieces,  place  them  in  a  saucepan  with  1 
ounce  butter,  1  gill  of  fine-chopped  onions,  stir  and  cook  5  minutes  ; 
add  1  tablespoonful  flour,  stir  and  cook  3  minutes ;  add  3  gills  of 


418  POULTRY. 

broth,  2  gills  of  red  wine,  1  teaspoonful  coarsely  pounded  peppers, 
and  cook  10  minutes.  Arrange  the  duck  on  a  warm  dish,  strain 
the  sauce  over  it,  and  decorate  with  6  heart-shaped  croutons. 

Salmi  of  Cold  Boasted  Duck. ‚Äî Cut  the  meat  of  cold  roasted 
ducks  into  nice  slices,  chop  the  carcasses  into  small  pieces,  place 
them  with  1  fine-chopped  onion  in  a  saucepan,  add  2  cupfuls  stock 
or  boiling  water  with  1  teaspoonful  beef  extract,  1  bay  leaf,  2 
cloves,  12  coarsely  pounded  peppers,  ^2  pi^^t  red  wine,  if  handy,  a 
little  fine-cut  ham,  boil  15  minutes  ;  then  strain  this  essence  into  a 
clean  saucepan.  Melt  1  ounce  butter  in  a  saucepan,  add  1  table- 
spoonful  flour,  stir  and  cook  3  minutes ;  add  the  essences,  cook  5 
minutes,  then  taste  ;  if  necessary,  add  a  little  salt ;  put  in  the  duck 
meat,  let  it  simmer  10  minutes,  then  serve  with  potato  croquettes. 

Ducks  with  Brown  Kale. ‚Äî Strip  the  leaves  from  4  large 
heads  of  brown  kale,  wash  several  times  in  cold  water,  place  them  in 
a  large  saucepan  over  the  fire,  cover  with  boiling  water,  cook  10 
minutes  ;  then  drain  the  kale  on  a  sieve,  lay  it  on  a  chopping  board, 
and  cut  it  coarsely  with  a  knife  ;  return  the  kale  to  saucepan  again, 
place  a  well-cleaned  duck  in  the  center,  add  sufficient  boiling  water 
to  barely  cover  ;  season  with  1  tablespoonful  salt  and  Yg  teaspoonful 
pepper,  add  2  fine-chopped  onions,  and  cook  till  tender ;  when  the 
duck  is  done,  remove  it,  lay  it  on  a  dish,  and  set  it  in  a  warm  place ; 
continue  to  cook  the  kale  until  done,  then  taste ;  if  necessary,  add 
more  salt  and  serve. 

Ducks  aux  Olives. ‚Äî Singe,  wash,  and  draw  2  young  ducks, 
truss  them  nicely,  season  with  1  tablespoonful  salt ;  place  the  ducks 
in  a  roasting  pan,  spread  2  ounces  butter  over  the  breasts ;  place 
the  pan  in  a  medium-hot  oven  and  roast  till  light  brown  on  all 
sides ;  then  add  a  bouquet,  1  gill  of  white  broth  and  1  gill  of  white 
wine,  cover  with  buttered  paper,  and  roast  till  done.  Melt  1  ounce 
butter  in  a  saucepan,  add  V2  gill  oi  fine-chopped  onion,  Yg  giU 
grated  carrots,  1  bay  leaf,  12  whole  peppers,  IY2  giU  fine-chopped 
ham,  stir  and  cook  5  minutes ;  add  1  tablespoonful  flour,  cook  2 


POULTRY.  419 

minutes  ;  add  Yg  pint  broth,  Yg  gill  Madeira  wine,  1  even  teaspoon- 
ful  salt,  Y4  teaspoonful  pepper,  1  gill  mushroom  liquor,  cook  10 
minutes.  Lay  the  ducks  on  a  warm  dish,  remove  the  fat  from  the 
gravy,  add  the  gravy  to  the  alaove  Madeira  sauce  with  1  teaspoonful 
beef  extract,  cook  for  a  few  minutes,  then  strain.  In  the  mean- 
time prepare  a  fine  chicken  forcemeat.  Remove  the  pits  from  1 
pint  salted  olives,  lay  them  for  15  minutes  in  cold  water,  then  fill 
them  with  chicken  forcemeat ;  butter  a  plain  border  form,  lay  the 
olives  in  rows  over  one  another,  then  fill  the  form  with  forcemeat ; 
set  the  form  in  a  pan  of  hot  water,  cover  with  buttered  paper,  place 
the  pan  in  a  medium-hot  oven,  and  bake  30  minutes ;  then  turn  the 
border  mold  on  to  a  warm  dish.  Carve  the  ducks  into  nice  pieces, 
lay  them  in  the  border,  the  best  pieces  on  top,  pour  over  a  little  of 
the  Madeira  sauce,  and  serve  the  remaining  sauce  in  a  sauce  bowl. 

Ducks  with  Sauerkraut. ‚Äî Place  a  saucepan  with  lYs  quart 
sauerkraut  over  the  fire,  cover  with  white  broth.  Place  at  the  same 
time  1  pound  lean  bacon  in  another  saucepan,  cover  with  cold 
water,  boil  1  hour ;  then  remove  the  bacon  and  rinse  ofE  with  cold 
water ;  lay  the  bacon  in  the  center  of  the  sauerkraut  and  boil  till 
done.  Lay  the  bacon  on  a  warm  dish,  put  the  kraut  in  a  colander, 
let  all  the  liquid  drain  off ;  return  it  to  the  saucepan,  add  Y2  pint 
Ehine  wine,  stir  and  cook  10  minutes  ;  butter  a  plain  border  form, 
put  in  the  sauerkraut,  and  set  it  in  a  warm  place.  In  the  meantime 
place  2  well-cleaned  young  ducks  in  a  braising  pot  or  large  low 
saucepan,  lay  thin  slices  of  pork  under  the  ducks,  add  4  ounces  raw 
ham,  1  onion,  a  small  carrot,  and  a  bouquet ;  lay  a  few  slices  of 
pork  over  the  breasts,  then  add  sufficient  boiling  broth  to  reach  half 
way  up  the  ducks  ;  add  Yg  piiit  white  wine,  cover  the  ducks  with  a 
buttered  paper,  put  on  a  tight  cover,  and  cook  slowly  till  the  ducks 
are  tender,  which  will  take  from  1  to  IY2  hour.  Shortly  before 
serving  remove  the  ducks,  strain  the  broth  and  free  it  from  fat,  re- 
duce it  by  boiling  to  one  half.  Melt  1  ounce  butter  in  a  saucepan, 
add  1  tablespoonful  flour,  stir  and  cook  3  minutes ;  add  the  broth 
from  the  ducks,  also  6  fine-cut  mushrooms  and  2  fine-cut  truffles ; 


420  POULTRY. 

if  the  sauce  is  too  thin,  reduce  it  by  boiling ;  if  too  thick,  add  a 
little  white  broth.  When  ready  to  serve,  turn  the  sauerkraut  out 
of  form  on  a  warm  dish  ;  carve  the  ducks  nicely,  lay  them  in  the 
center,  pour  a  little  of  the  sauce  over  the  ducks,  and  serve  the  re- 
maining sauce  in  a  sauce  bowl ;  cut  the  bacon  into  nice  even  slices 
and  lay  them  on  top  the  border,  and  serve. 

Ducks^  Hanovarian  Style. ‚Äî Singe,  draw,  and  wash  2  young 
ducks,  season  them  with  1  tablespoonful  salt ;  tie  over  the  breast  of 
each  duck  a  large  thin  slice  of  larding  pork,  place  them  in  a  roast- 
ing pan,  spread  1  ounce  butter  over  each  one,  then  set  the  pan  in  a 
medium-hot  oven,  roast  and  baste  frequently  with  melted  butter 
and  their  own  gravy  till  done.  At  the  same  time  strip  the  leaves 
from  3  heads  of  brown  kale,  wash  it  3  times  in  cold  water ;  place 
the  kale  in  a  saucepan,  cover  with  boiling  water,  and  cook  10 
minutes  ;  then  drain  the  kale  in  a  colander,  place  it  on  a  board,  and 
chop  it  coarsely.  Place  a  saucepan  with  4  ounces  pure  leaf  lard, 
duck  fat,  or  beef  fat  over  the  fire ;  add  the  kale  and  1  pint  of  giblet 
broth,  and  season  with  1  even  tablespoonful  salt  and  1  even  teaspoonf  ul 
pepper.  Place  1  pound  of  lean  bacon  in  a  saucepan,  cover  with  cold 
water,  boil  20  minutes ;  then  lay  the  bacon  in  the  center  of  the 
kale,  cover  and  boil  till  tender.  Shortly  before  serving  remove  the 
bacon  to  a  warm  plate  ;  pour  the  kale  in  a  colander,  drain  off  all  the 
moisture,  then  put  it  into  a  buttered  border  form  and  set  it  in  a 
warm  place.  Take  out  the  duck,  pour  the  gravy  into  a  saucepan, 
pour  off  most  of  the  fat,  then  add  1  tablespoonful  flour  to  the  gravy, 
stir  and  cook  over  the  fire  3  minutes  ;  add  sufficient  giblet  broth  to 
make  a  creamy  sauce,  boil  5  minutes ;  then  strain ;  carve  the  ducks 
nicely,  turn  the  border  of  kale  on  to  a  warm  dish,  and  put  the  ducks 
inside  the  border,  laying  the  nice  pieces  on  top ;  pour  over  a  little 
of  the  sauce  and  serve  the  remaining  sauce  in  a  sauce  bowl ;  cut  the 
bacon  into  neat  slices  and  lay  them  on  top  the  border.  Place  the 
well-cleaned  feet,  neck,  and  giblets  of  the  ducks  in  a  saucepan  over 
the  fire,  cover  with  cold  water ;  add  1  teaspoonful  salt  and  1  onion, 
cook  1  hour:  then  strain,  and  use  as  described  above. 


POULTRY.  421 


PIGEON. 


Pigeon  Cutlets  with  Olives.‚Äî Singe,  draw,  and  wash  3  young 
pigeons,  dry  them,  cut  off  the  necks,  wings,  and  feet,  then  bone  them, 
leaving  the  legs  on,  which  are  pushed  through  the  skin,  to  give  the 
form  of  a  cutlet.  Lay  the  cutlets  in  a  pan  with  2  ounces  of  melted 
butter,  place  over  the  fire,  and  cook  3  minutes  on  each  side ;  re- 
move to  a  plate,  press  them  a  little,  and  set  aside  to  cool.  Trim  the 
cutlets  neatly  15  minutes  before  serving ;  season  them  with  pepper 
and  salt ;  mix  the  yolk  of  1  egg  with  1  ounce  cold  melted  butter ; 
dip  the  cutlets  into  the  butter,  cover  with  fresh  grated  bread  crumbs, 
lay  them  on  to  a  hot  broiler,  and  broil  light  brown  on  both  sides. 
Eemove  the  pits  from  1  pint  of  salted  olives,  soak  Yg  hour  in  cold 
water,  place  them  with  boiling  water  in  a  saucepan  over  the  fire, 
cook  5  minutes ;  drain  and  cool  in  cold  water ;  when  cold,  dry  and 
stuff  them  with  chicken  or  veal  forcemeat.  Place  a  saucepan  with 
1  ounce  butter  over  the  fire ;  add  1  tablespoonf ul  fine-chopped 
onion,  the  same  of  grated  carrot  and  fine-cut  ham,  1  bay  leaf,  12 
whole  peppers,  cook  5  minutes ;  add  1  tablespoonful  flour,  stir  and 
cook  3  minutes ;  add  1  pint  white  broth  and  1  even  teaspoonful  salt, 
cook  slowly  10  minutes;  then  strain  the  sauce  into  a  clean  sauce- 
pan, put  in  the  olives,  and  cook  them  slowly  8  minutes.  Glaze  the 
pigeon  cutlets  with  a  little  glaze ;  dress  on  a  hot  dish,  and  arrange  the 
olives  on  each  side  of  them ;  serve  the  sauce  in  a  sauce  bowl. 

Pigeon  Cutlets  h  la  Dauphine. ‚Äî Clean  and  bone  3  young 
fat  pigeons,  leaving  on  the  legs  and  drawing  them  inside  through 
the  skin ;  lay  in  a  deep  frying  pan  with  2  ounces  butter,  cook  4 
minutes  on  each  side ;  then  remove ;  lay  the  cutlets  on  a  flat  dish, 
put  a  light  weight  over  them,  and  set  aside ;  when  cold  trim  neatly 
and  cover  them  with  Villeroi  sauce  (see  Villeroi  Sauce)  ;  let 
them  stand  in  a  cool  place  till  the  sauce  hardens,  then  dip  the  cutlets 
into  fresh  grated  bread  crumbs,  next  into  beaten  egg,  then  again 
into  bread  crumbs  ;  fry  them  light  brown  in  hot  fat.     Arrange  the 


422  POULTRY. 

pigeon  cutlets  in  a  row,  one  overlapping  the  other,  on  a  hot  dish, 
and  place  on  each  side  some  stewed  green  peas  (about  1  quart  of 
shelled  peas  in  all)  or  2  cans  of  French  peas.  In  place  of  peas, 
cooked  carrot  balls  may  be  taken,  or  asparagus  tops  a  la  cr^me ;  also 
small  cauliflower  roses  or  Brussels  sprouts  may  be  used. 

Pigeon  Cutlets  a  la  Toringo. ‚Äî Prepare  and  cook  the  cutlets 
the  same  as  in  foregoing  recipe;  dress  in  center  of  a  hot  dish  Yg 
pound  macaroni  a  la  creme,  pour  over  Yg  pint  of  tomato  a  I'alle- 
mande  sauce ;  arrange  the  cutlets  in  a  circle  around  it,  and  serve 
with  some  of  the  tomato  sauce  in  a  sauce  bowl. 

Fillets  of  Pigeons  a  la  Pompadour.‚Äî Eemove  the  skin 
from  the  breasts  of  6  well-cleaned  pigeons ;  cut  off  and  lift  the 
breast  from  each  one,  leaving  on  the  small  wing  bone ;  season  with 
a  little  salt.  Lay  the  fillets  into  a  frying  pan  with  2  ounces  melted 
butter,  cook  slowly  4  minutes  on  each  side  without  browning ;  re- 
move, and  when  cold  cover  each  fillet  with  chicken  or  veal  force- 
meat, to  which  a  few  fine-cut  truffles  and  mushrooms  have  been 
added ;  place  them  in  a  pan  with  melted  butter,  set  the  pan  in  a 
medium  hot  oven,  and  cook  10  minutes  without  browning;  then 
remove.  In  the  meantime  have  a  plain  rice  border  prepared,  ar- 
range the  fillets  on  top  the  rice  border,  and  fill  the  center  with  a 
mushroom  or  lobster  ragout. 

Pigeon,  Roasted. ‚Äî Pick,  draw,  and  wash  6  young  pigeons; 
season  them  with  salt ;  tie  a  thin  slice  of  larding  pork  over  the 
breast  of  each ;  place  them  in  a  roasting  pan,  pour  a  little  melted 
butter  over  each  one  ;  set  the  pan  in  a  medium-hot  oven ;  roast,  and 
baste  frequently  first  with  melted  butter  then  with  their  own  gravy 
until  done  (if  the  gravy  should  get  too  brown,  add  1  gill  of  boiling 
water).  When  ready  to  serve  split  the  pigeons  into  halves ;  arrange 
them  nicely  on  a  warm  dish,  overlapping  one  another ;  free  the 
gravy  from  fat ;  add  a  little  broth  to  the  gravy,  pour  it  over  the 
pigeons,  and  serve.  Or  mix  1  teaspoonful  cornstarch  with  Y2  giU  of 
cold  water ;  add  it  to  the  sauce,  stir  and  cook  2  minutes ;  add  suffi- 


POULTRY.  423 

cient  broth  to  make  a  creamy  sauce ;  continue  to  cook  for  a  few 
minutes ;  strain,  and  pour  1  tablespoonf ul  over  each  pigeon,  and 
serve  the  remaining  sauce  in  a  sauce  bowl. 

Pigeon,  Potted. ‚Äî Place  a  saucepan  with  2  ounces  fine-cut 
larding  pork  over  the  fire ;  fry  light  brown ;  season  3  well-cleaned 
and  prepared  pigeons  with  Yg  tablespoonful  salt ;  place  them  in  the 
saucepan ;  add  4  ounces  butter,  cook  and  turn  until  they  are  light 
brown  on  all  sides ;  then  add  1  gill  of  broth,  cover,  and  cook  slowly 
till  they  are  done  (if  necessary,  add  more  broth).  Place  the  giblets 
in  a  saucepan,  cover  with  cold  water ;  add  a  little  salt,  set  them  over 
the  fire,  and  cook  till  tender ;  then  remove  the  giblets  and  chop 
them  fine.  Fry  6  slices  of  bread  light  brown  in  butter,  lay  them  on 
a  warm  dish ;  cut  the  pigeons  in  halves,  lay  one  half  on  to  each 
slice  of  bread ;  remove  all  fat  from  the  gravy ;  mix  Yg  tablespoonful 
cornstarch  with  Yg  giU  cold  water,  add  it  to  the  gravy ;  also  sufficient 
broth  to  make  a  creamy  sauce,  cook  5  minutes ;  then  strain  into  a 
clean  saucepan,  add  the  chopped  giblets,  cook  3  minutes ;  pour  the 
gravy  over  the  pigeons,  equally  divided,  garnish  with  a  little  water 
ci-ess,  and  serve. 

Pigeons,  Filled  and  Roasted.‚Äî Pick  and  clean  6  young 
pigeons ;  stuff  them  with  the  following  preparation  :  Soak  4  ounces 
stale  baker's  bread  without  the  rind  in  cold  water  till  soft,  then 
press  out  all  the  water ;  melt  2  ounces  butter  in  a  saucepan,  add  the 
bread,  and  stir  till  it  forms  a  stiff  paste ;  then  remove  to  a  bowl ; 
add  1  egg,  Ys  even  teaspoonful  salt,  Y4  even  teaspoonf ul  pepper,  % 
teaspoonful  thyme,  1  teaspoonful  grated  onion,  and  Y4  teaspoonful 
nutmeg ;  mix  all  well  together ;  make  an  incision  on  each  side  of 
pigeons,  through  these  draw  the  legs ;  stuff  with  the  above  prepara- 
tion, and  sew  up ;  season  with  1  even  tablespoonful  salt  evenly  dis- 
tributed all  over ;  tie  a  large  thin  slice  of  larding  pork  over  the 
breast  of  each  one ;  then  place  in  a  roasting  pan ;  pour  over  each 
pigeon  a  little  melted  butter ;  place  the  pan  in  a  medium-hot  oven ; 
roast  until  light  brown  on  all  sides,  basting  them  with  their  own 


424:  POULTRY. 

gravy ;  then  add  Yg  cup  broth  or  boiling  water ;  continue  to  roast 
till  done,  which  will  take  from  40  to  60  minutes.  Shortly  before 
serving  lay  the  pigeons  on  a  warm  dish ;  remove  all  fat  from  the 
gravy ;  mix  Yg  tablespoonf ul  cornstarch  with  Ys  giU  cold  water,  add 
it  to  the  gravy,  stir  and  cook  30  minutes ;  add  Ys  pi^t  of  broth  or 
stock,  cook  5  minutes  ;  then  strain.  Cook  the  giblets  in  water  with 
a  little  salt ;  rub  the  cooked  livers  fine,  and  add  them  to  the  sauce ; 
pour  a  little  sauce  over  each  pigeon,  and  serve  the  remainder  in  a 
sauce  bowl ;  or  chop  the  pigeon  livers  fine,  and  mix  them  with  the 
bread  filling.  Pigeons  may  also  be  stuffed  with  veal  or  chicken 
forcemeat  or  chestnut  puree. 

Pigeons  with  Rice. ‚Äî Place  3  or  4  well-cleaned  pigeons  in  a 
saucepan  over  the  fire,  cover  with  boiling  water ;  add  Y2  tablespoonful 
salt,  2  white  onions,  a  bouquet,  and  a  small  carrot ;  boil  until  tender. 
Place  Y2  pound  well-washed  rice  in  a  saucepan  over  the  fire,  cover 
with  boiling  water,  cook  5  minutes ;  drain,  and  rinse  off  with  fresh 
cold  water ;  return  the  rice  in  a  saucepan  to  the  fire ;  add  IY2  pint  of 
the  pigeon  broth,  cook  over  slow  fire  till  the  rice  is  done,  but  the 
kernels  not  broken.  Shortly  before  serving  turn  the  rice  on  to  a 
warm  dish,  add  2  ounces  butter  in  small  pieces ;  then  with  2  forks 
mix  the  rice  and  butter  together;  give  the  rice  a  dome  shape, 
smooth  it  over  with  a  knife ;  cut  the  pigeons  in  half,  arrange  them 
as  a  border  around  the  rice,  and  serve. 

Pigeon  with  Peas. ‚Äî Place  3  or  4  well-cleaned  pigeons  in  a 
saucepan  with  1  ounce  raw  ham,  1  ounce  salt  pork,  1  small  car- 
rot cut  into  slices,  1  onion,  a  bouquet,  and  6  whole  peppers ;  add 
sufficient  boiling  veal  or  chicken  broth  or  water  to  reach  half  way 
up  the  pigeons ;  cover  with  buttered  paper  ;  set  the  saucepan  over 
the  fire  till  the  pigeons  are  nearly  done ;  remove  the  pigeons  to  a 
pan  large  enough  to  receive  them ;  strain  the  broth,  free  it  from  all 
fat,  pour  the  broth  over  the  pigeons  ;  set  the  pan  in  a  hot  oven,  and 
let  cook  till  the  broth  is  a  half  glaze,  baste  frequently.  At  the  same 
time  place  a  quart  of  fresh  shelled  peas  in  a  saucepan  over  the  fire  ; 


POULTRY.  425 

barely  cover  with  boiling  water ;  add  1  teaspoonf  ul  sugar,  and  boil 
till  tender  and  nearly  dry ;  then  mix  1  ounce  butter  with  Yg  tea- 
spoonful  flour,  add  it  to  the  peas ;  add  1  even  teaspoonf  ul  salt  and 
2  tablespoonfuls  cream,  cook  3  minutes ;  then  add  1  tablespoonf ul 
fine-chopped  parsley ;  remove  from  fire,  not  letting  them  boil  with 
the  parsley.  Arrange  the  peas  in  the  center  on  an  oblong  dish,  cut 
each  pigeon  in  half ;  lay  them  in  2  rows  on  the  dish  with  the  peas 
between  them ;  pour  a  little  of  the  glaze  over  each  one,  and  serve. 
In  place  of  peas,  glazed  carrot  balls,  small  cauliflower  roses  covered 
with  sauce,  Brussels  sprouts,  chestnuts,  mushrooms,  olives,  spaghetti, 
or  nudles  may  be  used. 

Indian  Curry  of  Chicken. ‚Äî Cut  a  well-cleaned  young  chicken 
of  2Y3  pounds  into  2-inch  pieces,  season  them  with  1  tablespoonf  ul 
salt.  Place  a  saucepan  with  3  ounces  butter  and  %  cupful  fine-cut 
onion  over  the  fire,  stir  and  cook  till  the  onion  begins  to  turn  straw- 
color  ;  then  add  1  tablespoonful  curry  powder,  stir  and  cook  5  min- 
utes over  a  slow  fire ;  next  add  the  chicken,  cook  15  minutes,  stirring 
frequently  ;  add  1  pint  of  boiling  water,  let  simmer  over  a  moderate 
fire  2  hours ;  if  the  liquor  boils  away,  add  a  little  more  water,  and 
serve  with  boiled  rice. 

Rice  boiled  Indian  Style. ‚Äî Wash  1  pound  best  rice,  place  it 
in  a  saucepan,  cover  with  2  quarts  boiling  water,  cover  and  cook  till 
the  rice  is  soft  but  not  broken  ;  drain  ofl  the  water,  rinse  off  several 
times  with  cold  water,  return  the  rice  to  the  saucepan,  put  on  the 
lid,  set  the  saucepan  for  1  hour  on  side  of  stove  to  dry.  Kice  pre- 
pared in  this  way  is  always  served  with  Indian  curry  dishes.  If  the 
rice  is  to  be  served  with  meat,  then  boil  it  with  1  teaspoonful  salt, 
and  when  done,  drained,  and  rinsed,  put  1  tablespoonful  butter  in 
the  center  of  rice  and  leave  it  on  side  the  stove  for  1  hour. 


SALPICON. 

Salpicon  a  la  Toulouse,  No.  1. ‚Äî Cook  1  blanched  and  pre- 
pared sweetbread  10  minutes  in  1  ounce  butter ;  then  cut  it  into 
small  dice-shaped  pieces  ;  add  an  equal  portion  of  cooked  beef  tongue, 
mushrooms,  and  3  truffles  all  cut  the  same  way.  Then  place  a 
saucepan  over  the  fire  with  1  ounce  butter ;  add  1  tablespoonful 
flour,  stir  and  cook  3  minutes  ;  add  Yo  pint  chicken  broth,  1  gill  of 
mushroom  liquor,  Yg  even  teaspoonful  salt,  and  Y2  giU  of  Khine 
wine ;  cook  slowly  5  minutes ;  then  add  to  the  sauce  all  the  above 
ingredients ;  cook  5  minutes  longer.  Mix  the  yolks  of  2  eggs  with 
1  gill  of  cream  ;  add  them  to  the  salpicon,  stir  for  a  minute  ;  then 
serve. 

Salpicon  a  la  Toulouse,  No.  2. ‚Äî Cut  1  ounce  raw  lean  ham 
into  small  pieces  and  put  them  in  a  saucepan  over  the  fire ;  add  1 
tablespoonful  fine-cut  onion,  a  bouquet,  and  12  coarsely  pounded 
peppers ;  cover  with  IY2  giU  Madeira  or  sherry  wine ;  cook  until 
reduced  to  one  half,  then  strain  this  essence  and  set  aside  till  follow- 
ing sauce  is  made  :  Place  a  saucepan  with  1  ounce  butter  and  1 
tablespoonful  fine-chopped  onion  over  the  fire ;  cook  5  minutes  ;  add 
1  tablespoonful  flour,  stir  and  cook  3  minutes  ;  add  Yg  cupful  canned 
tomatoes,  Ys  pint  of  broth,  and  the  essence  mentioned  above  ;  season 
with  1  even  teaspoonful  salt  and  Y2  teaspoonful  pepper,  cook  10 
minutes ;  strain  into  a  clean  saucepan ;  add  1  pint  of  fine-cut 
cooked  calf's  head,  Ys  piiit  fine-cut  mushrooms,  2  fine-cut  truffles; 
cook  slowly  10  minutes  ;  then  serve. 

Salpicon  a  la  FinanciSre. ‚Äî Melt  1  ounce  butter  in  a  sauce- 
pan ;  add  a  small  bouquet,  1  tablespoonful  fine-chopped  onion,  the 

426 


SALPICOX.  427 

same  of  ham  and  mushrooms,  cook  5  minutes ;  add  IY2  gill  white 
wine,  cook  until  reduced  to  one  half.  Place  a  small  saucepan  with 
1  tablespoonful  butter  and  the  same  of  flour  over  the  fire,  stir  and 
cook  3  minutes ;  add  %  pint  of  broth,  1  teaspoonf ul  beef  extract,  Yg 
even  teaspoonf  ul  salt,  cook  5  minutes ;  then  strain.  Now  strain 
the  above  essence,  remove  the  fat,  add  it  to  the  sauce,  and  cook  5 
minutes  longer  ;  then  add  Yg  pint  of  fine-cut  white  cooked  chicken 
meat,  3  truffles,  12  canned  mushrooms,  Y2  pin^  cooked  beef  tongue, 
all  cut  into  small  dice-shaped  pieces ;  cook  slowly  on  the  side  of  the 
stove  10  minutes  ;  then  serve. 

Salpicon  a  la  Roy  ale. ‚Äî Season  2  goose  or  3  chicken  livers 
with  salt  and  pepper ;  melt  2  ounces  butter  in  a  saucepan,  put  in 
the  livers  and  cook  till  done  ;  cook  12  small  mushrooms  10  minutes 
in  butter ;  then  remove  and  cut  them  into  small  pieces,  add  Y2  pi^t 
of  white  cooked  chicken  meat,  cut  into  small  dice-shaped  pieces. 
Place  a  saucepan  with  1  ounce  butter  over  the  fire ;  add  1  table- 
spoonful  flour,  stir  and  cook  3  minutes ;  add  Y4  pint  boiling  milk,  a 
small  bouquet,  Y2  teaspoonful  nutmeg,  1  gill  of  mushroom  liquor, 
12  whole  peppers,  1  even  teaspoonful  salt,  and  cook  5  minutes; 
strain ;  add  all  the  above  ingredients  and  cook  5  minutes  longer ; 
then  serve. 

Salpicon  a  la  Palermotaine. ‚Äî Place  a  saucepan  with  1  ounce 
butter  and  1  gill  of  fine-chopped  onions  over  the  fire,  cook  5  min- 
utes ;  add  Y2  tablespoonful  flour,  stir  and  cook  2  minutes  ;  then  add 
Ys  can  tomatoes,  Y2  teaspoonful  salt,  Y4  teaspoonful  pepper,  1  tea- 
spoonful sugar,  and  cook  15  minutes  ;  strain  into  a  clean  saucepan ; 
add  Y2  pi^t  cooked  macaroni  cut  into  Y2-ii^ch  lengths,  Y2  piiit  fine- 
cut  cooked  chicken  meat,  Y2  pint  fine-cut  boiled  ham,  and,  if  handy, 
3  or  4  fine-cut  cooked  artichoke  bottoms ;  set  the  saucepan  over  the 
fire,  cook  slowly  6  minutes ;  then  mix  the  yolks  of  2  eggs  with  1 
gill  of  cream,  add  it  to  the  salpicon,  and  serve  at  once. 

Salpicon  of  Lobster. ‚Äî Melt  1  ounce  butter  in  a  saucepan ; 
add  1  tablespoonful  flour,  stir  and  cook  3  minutes ;  add  Y*  pint  of 


428  SALPICON. 

chicken  broth,  1  gill  of  mushroom  liquor,  a  small  bouquet,  1  even 
teaspoonful  salt,  Y4  teaspoonful  nutmeg,  12  whole  peppers,  and  cook 
5  minutes ;  then  strain  into  a  clean  saucepan ;  add  1  tablespoonful 
lemon  juice,  the  fine-cut  meat  of  a  2Y2-pound  boiled  lobster,  and  cook 
5  minutes ;  mix  the  yolks  of  3  eggs  with  1  gill  of  cream,  add  it  to 
the  salpicon,  and  serve  at  once.  In  place  of  lobster,  crab  or  shrimp 
may  be  used, 

Salpicon  ot  Fish. ‚Äî Take  any  kind  of  fish  with  firm  meat, 
either  baked  or  boiled,  and  cut  it  into  small  dice-shaped  pieces ; 
place  a  saucepan  with  1  ounce  butter  over  the  fire  ;  add  1  table- 
spoonful  flour,  stir  and  cook  3  minutes ;  then  add  1  pint  of  cream 
or  milk,  1  even  teaspoonful  salt,  1  gill  of  mushroom  liquor,  a  small 
bouquet,  12  whole  peppers,  and  Y2  teaspoonful  nutmeg;  cook.  5 
minutes ;  remove  the  bouquet,  and  continue  the  cooking  5  minutes 
longer ;  strain  in  a  clean  saucepan  ;  add  1  pint  of  fine-cut  cooked 
fish  and  y^  cupful  fine-cut  mushrooms,  and,  if  handy,  add  2  fine- 
cut  truffles. 

Salpicon  of  Oysters. ‚Äî Place  24  large  oysters  without  their 
liquor  in  a  saucepan  over  the  fire  ;  add  Yg  gill  of  Ehine  wine,  sprinkle 
over  1  even  teaspoonful  salt,  Y3  even  teaspoonful  pepper ;  cook  2  min- 
utes, or  until  they  begin  to  stiffen  and  ruffle,  then  take  them  out, 
remove  the  beards,  and  cut  each  oyster  into  4  pieces.  Melt  1  ounce 
butter  in  a  saucepan ;  add  1  tablespoonful  flour,  stir  and  cook  3 
minutes ;  add  Y2  V^^^  ^'^^^  ^^  chicken  broth,  also  the  broth  in  which 
the  oysters  were  cooked,  1  gill  of  oyster  liquor,  cook  5  minutes ; 
mix  the  yolks  of  3  eggs  with  Y2  cupful  cream ;  add  it  to  the  sauce ; 
add  the  oysters  and  Yl  tablespoonful  lemon  juice,  let  the  salpicon 
get  hot  without  boiling,  and  serve. 

Salpicon  h  la  Chasseur. ‚Äî Eemove  the  breast  from  a  roasted 
prairie  hen,  cut  it  into  small  dice-shaped  pieces  ;  add  to  this  12  fine- 
cut  canned  mushrooms,  2  fine-cut  truffles,  and  the  cooked  liver  of 
the  hen.  Cut  off  the  legs  and  second  joints  and  lay  them  aside ; 
crack  the  remaining  bones  into  small  pieces ;  cut  1  onion  into  slices, 


SALPICON".  429 

lay  them  in  bottom  of  saucepan,  add  3  slices  of  carrots,  1  ounce  fine- 
cut  raw  ham,  and  a  bouquet ;  place  the  bones  on  top  of  this,  then 
cover  with  broth,  add  1  gill  Madeira  wine  and  12  whole  peppers ; 
set  the  saucepan  over  the  fire,  cover  and  cook  1  hour ;  then  strain ; 
reduce  the  broth  to  ^4  pint  by  boiling.  Then  place  a  saucepan  with 
1  ounce  butter  over  the  fire,  add  1  tablespoonful  flour  ;  stir  and  cook 
3  minutes ;  add  the  strained  broth  mentioned  above,  1  gill  of  mush- 
room liquor,  1  gill  Madeira  wine,  7g  teaspoonful  beef  extract,  1  even 
teaspoonful  salt,  Vg  even  teaspoonful  white  pepper,  and  a  small  bou- 
quet ;  boil  slowly  10  minutes ;  then  strain  the  sauce  into  a  clean 
saucepan,  add  the  fine-cut  prairie-hen  meat,  the  mushrooms,  and 
truffles ;  cook  5  minutes ;  then  serve. 


GAME. 

Redhead^  Ganvasback^  Teal^  and  Mallard  Ducks  are  in  season  from 
September  to  the  end  of  March. 

Canyasback  Duck,  Eoasted. ‚Äî For  6  persons  select  3  fine 
canvasback  ducks,  pick  off  the  feathers,  and  singe  them ;  clean  the 
head,  remove  the  eyes,  cut  the  skin  the  whole  length  of  the  neck 
from  the  head  down  to  the  body ;  remove  the  pouch  and  windpipe ; 
cut  a  small  opening  above  the  vent,  cut  out  the  vent,  then  with  the 
hand  remove  the  internal  organs ;  wipe  the  inside  and  outside  with 
a  damp  cloth,  but  if  the  ducks  are  too  garaey,  wash  them  quickly  in 
cold  water,  and  wipe  them  dry ;  run  the  head  down  under  the  wing, 
and  stick  the  bill  into  the  breast ;  season  with  Yg  tablespoonf ul  salt 
and  1  teaspoonf  ul  pepper  evenly  distributed  inside  and  outside  of  the 
ducks ;  bend  the  wings  over  the  back,  run  a  trussing  needle  with 
white  cord  through  the  thighs  and  body,  then  tie  the  two  ends  at 
the  back  ;  next  run  the  needle  through  the  wings,  body,  and  neck,  and 
tie  them  in  the  back  ;  put  Yg  ounce  butter  into  each  duck,  lay  them 
in  a  roasting  pan,  pour  3  tablespoonfuls  white  broth  in  the  pan, 
place  the  pan  in  the  hot  oven,  and  roast  30  minutes  or  more,  accord- 
ing to  size.  "When  ready  to  serve,  lay  the  ducks  on  a  warm  dish, 
remove  the  threads,  surround  with  fried  hominy;  present  them 
whole  to  the  guests,  remove,  and  carve  only  the  breasts.  Place  Yg 
breast  and  a  piece  of  the  fried  hominy  with  1  tablespoonf  ul  currant 
jelly  for  each  person  on  hot  plates,  and  serve.  Canvasback  ducks 
are  always  served  rare. 

Canyasback  Duck  with  Currant-jelly  Sauce. ‚Äî Roast  for 
6  persons  3  ducks  same  way  as  in  foregoing  recipe ;  remove  the 
breasts  from  the  roasted  ducks,  cut  each  one  into  halves,  and  lay 

430 


GAME.  431 

them  into  a  chafing  dish.  In  the  meantime  place  a  saucepan  with 
1  ounce  butter,  1  tablespoonful  fine-cut  onions,  the  same  of  carrots 
and  ham,  1  bay  leaf,  12  whole  peppers  over  the  fire,  cook  5  minutes ; 
add  Ya  tablespoonful  flour,  cook  3  minutes ;  add  %  pint  white  broth 
and  Y2  teaspoonful  beef  extract,  cook  5  minutes;  then  strain  the 
sauce  into  a  clean  saucepan,  add  1  cupful  currant  jelly,  1  gill  of 
orange  juice,  and  2  tablespoonfuls  port  wine ;  place  the  saucepan 
over  the  fire,  and  stir  till  the  jelly  is  melted.  Pour  Y2  pint  of  sauce 
over  the  duck  meat,  dress  the  breast  on  a  warm  dish,  surround  with 
bread  croutons,  and  serve  the  remaining  sauce  in  a  sauce  bowl. 

Canvasback  Duck,  Broiled. ‚Äî Split  2  well-cleaned  ducks 
through  the  back,  season  them  with  1  even  tablespoonful  salt  and  1 
even  teaspoonful  pepper,  brush  them  over  with  a  little  olive  oil,  and 
lay  the  ducks  on  a  hot  broiler ;  broil  over  a  moderate  clear  fire  about 
10  minutes  on  each  side,  turning  them  every  5  minutes ;  dress  the 
ducks  on  a  warm  dish  ;  mix  2  ounces  butter  with  the  juice  of  Y2 
lemon,  Ys  teaspoonful  grated  nutmeg,  1  teaspoonful  fine-chopped 
parsley ;  spread  this  over  the  ducks,  garnish  with  water  cress,  and 
serve  with  buttered  toast. 

Redhead  Duck,  Roasted.‚Äî Select  a  fine  pair  of  redhead 
ducks,  pick,  singe,  and  draw  them  the  same  as  the  canvasback 
duck,  wipe  out  the  inside  with  a  cloth,  or  wash  them  quickly  in  cold 
water  and  dry ;  season  the  ducks  with  1  tablespoonful  seasoning  salt 
evenly  distributed  inside  and  outside ;  put  Y2  ounce  butter  into  each 
duck,  truss  them  neatly,  and  lay  them  in  a  roasting  pan.  Place  a 
pan  with  4  ounces  fine-cut  larding  pork  over  the  fire,  and  fry  till 
the  pork  turns  yellow ;  then  remove  and  strain ;  pour  2  tablespoon- 
fuls of  this  melted  pork  over  each  duck  and  3  tablespoonfuls  water 
in  the  pan,  set  the  pan  in  a  hot  oven,  and  roast  from  20  to  25  min- 
utes (they  should  be  quite  rare).  When  ready  to  serve,  lay  the 
ducks  on  a  hot  dish,  untruss,  lay  6  slices  of  fried  hominy  or  bread 
croutons  around  the  dish,  and  serve  with  crab-apple  or  currant 

jelly. 


432  GAME. 

Redhead  Duck,  Broiled. ‚Äî Sj)lit  2  well-cleaned  ducks  down 
the  back  and  flatten  them ;  brush  over  with  melted  butter,  lay  the 
ducks  on  a  hot  broiler,  and  broil  over  a  clear,  moderate  fire  from  20 
to  25  minutes,  turning  every  5  minutes.  Stir  2  ounces  butter  to  a 
cream ;  add  Yg  even  teaspoonf  ul  pepper,  1  even  tublespoonf  ul  salt ; 
lay  the  ducks  on  to  a  hot  dish,  spread  over  the  butter,  and  serve 
with  currant  jelly  and  buttered  toast ;  garnish  with  water  cress. 

Teal  Duck,  Roasted. ‚Äî Select  2  nice  teal  ducks ;  pick,  singe, 
and  draw  them,  wipe  the  inside  with  a  damp  cloth,  truss  them 
neatly,  season  with  salt,  allowing  1  even  fceaspoonful  for  each  duck ; 
put  Ya  ounce  butter  in  the  inside  of  each  one,  lay  them  in  a  roasting 
pan.  Twenty  minutes  before  serving  place  the  pan  in  a  hot  oven 
and  roast  18  minutes ;  glaze  them,  and  serve  on  a  hot  dish ;  pour  a 
few  tablespoonfuls  consomme  on  the  dish,  and  garnish  with  lemon, 
cut  lengthwise  into  quarters,  and  croutons,  or  serve  with  jelly  and 
garnish  with  fried  hominy. 

Teal  Duck,  Broiled,  is  prepared  as  broiled  canvasback  duck. 

Salmis  of  Teal  Ducks. ‚Äî Koast  2  teal  ducks  as  in  preceding 
recipe,  cut  off  the  wings,  breasts,  and  legs,  chop  the  bodies  of  the 
birds  into  small  pieces,  place  in  a  saucepan  over  the  fire,  cover  with 
white  broth,  and  cook  25  minutes  ;  strain  the  broth.  Melt  1  ounce 
butter  in  a  saucepan,  add  1  tablespoonful  fine-chopped  shallot,  1 
gill  of  fine-chopped  mushrooms,  1  even  teaspoonful  salt,  Ys  even 
teaspoonful  pepper,  Y4  teaspoonful  nutmeg,  cook  5  minutes  ;  add  1 
tablespoonful  flour,  stir  and  cook  2  minutes ;  add  3  gills  of  the 
broth  mentioned  above,  1  gill  of  white  wine,  Y2  giU  of  fine-cut 
cooked  ham,  a  little  beef  extract,  and  a  small  bouquet,  cook  5  min- 
utes ;  then  remove  the  bouquet,  add  1  tablespoonful  lemon  juice, 
put  the  duck  into  a  round  pan,  pour  over  the  sauce,  cook  5  minutes. 
Dress  the  salmis  on  a  hot  dish  and  decorate  with  6  slices  of  bread 
cut  triangle  shape  and  fried  a  delicate  brown  in  butter. 

Mallard  Duck,  Roasted. ‚Äî Pick,  draw,  and  singe  2  mallard 
ducks,  wipe  out  the  inside  with  a  cloth,  truss  them  the  same  as 


GAME.  433 

canvasbacks,  season  with  salt  and  a  little  pepper  ;  spread  1  ounce  but- 
ter over  each  duck,  place  them  in  a  roasting  pan  in  a  hot  oven,  cook 
from  25  to  30  minutes,  basting  frequently,  first  with  melted  butter, 
then  with  their  own  gravy  ;  untruss  and  serve  them  on  a  hot  dish  ; 
garnish  with  water  cress  and  lemons  cut  into  quarters.  Eemove  the 
fat  from  the  gravy,  add  a  few  spoonfuls  consomme  or  bouillon,  let  it 
boil  up  ;  then  strain  the  gravy  and  pour  it  over  the  ducks,  or  serve 
the  gravy  separately.     Serve  with  lettuce  salad  and  crab-apple  jelly. 

Salmis  of  Mallard  Duck. ‚Äî Eoast  2  ducks  as  in  foregoing 
recipe,  cut  off  the  breasts,  wings,  and  legs ;  chop  the  bodies  into 
small  pieces  and  place  them  in  a  saucepan  over  the  fire ;  add  Y2 
gill  of  fine-cut  onion,  1  bay  leaf,  12  coarsely  pounded  peppers,  Yg 
gill  fine-cut  raw  ham,  and  Yg  pint  red  wine,  cook  10  minutes  ;  add  1 
pint  of  broth,  cover  and  cook  30  minutes  ;  then  strain  the  broth  into 
a  clean  saucepan,  reduce  it  by  boiling  to  3  gills.  Melt  Yg  ounce  butter 
in  a  small  saucepan,  add  1  tablespoonful  flour,  cook  and  stir  3  min- 
utes ;  add  the  3  gills  of  broth,  Ys  giU  of  mushroom  liquor,  the 
gravy  from  the  ducks,  Ys  giU  of  sherry  wine,  and  1  even  teaspoonful 
pepper,  cook  5  minutes.  Put  the  ducks  in  a  saucepan,  pour  over 
the  sauce,  let  it  simmer  over  a  slow  fire  10  minutes  ;  then  serve  on  a 
hot  dish  and  decorate  with  bread  croiitons. 

Wild  Ducks. ‚Äî The  common  wild  ducks  are  often  unpalatable, 
caused  by  their  disagreeable  fishy  flavor.  In  order  to  remove  this 
flavor  the  ducks  should  be  picked,  singed,  and  drawn,  then  well 
washed  inside  and  outside  in  cold  water.  Place  a  large  kettle  with 
boiling  water  over  the  fire,  add  1  tablespoonful  bicarbonate  of  soda, 
1  carrot,  and  2  onions ;  put  in  the  ducks,  boil  20  minutes ;  then 
take  the  ducks  out  and  immediately  plunge  them  into  cold  water, 
wash  and  rinse  them  thoroughly,  and  wipe  dry ;  season  with  salt, 
allowing  1  even  tablespoonful  for  each  duck,  and  Ys  ¬©ven  teaspoon- 
ful white  pepper,  spread  1  ounce  butter  over  each  bird,  and  cover 
the  breasts  with  a  large  thin  slice  of  larding  pork  ;  set  the  pan  in  a 
medium-hot  oven,  roast  and  baste  frequently  till  light  brown  all 


434  GAME. 

over ;  then  put  a  little  boiling  water  in  the  pan,  add  a  few  slices  of 
carrot  and  onion,  continue  to  roast  and  baste  till  done.  Serve  the 
ducks  on  a  hot  dish,  free  the  gravy  from  fat,  add  a  little  broth,  and 
strain  it  over  the  ducks ;  serve  with  celery-root  salad  and  compote 
or  jelly.     Wild  goose  may  be  prepared  in  the  same  way. 

In  season  from  October  1st  to  February  1st. 

Pheasant,  Roasted.‚Äî Before  picking  the  pheasant  cut  off  the 
head  close  to  the  body,  also  the  wings  and  tail ;  then  pick,  singe, 
and  draw  the  bird ;  either  wash  it  quickly  in  cold  water  or  wipe  the 
inside  with  a  damp  cloth ;  truss  it  nicely ;  spread  1  ounce  butter 
all  over  the  bird  and  tie  a  large  thin  sheet  of  larding  pork  over  the 
breast,  lay  the  pheasant  in  a  roasting  pan,  cover  the  entire  bird  with 
buttered  paper,  place  the  pan  in  a  hot  oven,  and  roast  30  minutes ; 
then  remove  the  paper,  sprinkle  over  some  salt,  and  continue  to 
roast,  basting  frequently  till  done  (if  the  gravy  should  get  too 
brown,  add  a  little  water).  In  the  meantime  cut  2  pieces  of  bread 
lYa  inch  thick  and  SYg  inches  long,  hollow  out  a  piece  of  the  center 
Ya  inch  deep  and  IY2  inch  wide,  then  fry  them  light  brown  in  hot 
fat ;  drain,  and  when  cold  mix  a  little  white  of  egg  with  flour  to  a 
paste,  fasten  1  crouton  at  each  end  of  an  oval-shaped  dish,  and  place 
it  for  a  few  minutes  in  the  oven  to  dry ;  then  remove,  lay  into  1 
crouton  the  head,  into  the  other  the  tail,  and  fasten  them  with 
small  silver  skewers  ;  cover  the  croutons  with  a  frill  of  fancy  paper, 
so  that  the  meat  of  the  pheasant  will  not  come  in  contact  with  the 
feathers  of  the  bird.  Carve  the  pheasant,  cut  the  meat  into  nice 
even  slices,  cut  off  the  legs  and  divide  them  in  two,  also  the  back  ; 
lay  the  back  in  the  middle  of  the  dish,  the  legs  on  the  sides,  the 
breast  on  top  the  back.  Free  the  gravy  from  the  fat,  add  a  little 
broth  to  the  gravy,  pour  some  of  the  gravy  over  the  bird,  and  gar- 
nish with  a  border  of  water  cress.  Another  way  is  to  place  a  bread 
crouton  1  inch  high  and  8  inches  long  and  4  to  5  inches  Avide  on  the 
dish  ;  hollow  it  out  in  such  a  way  as  to  hold  the  bird  and  to  dress 
the  pheasant  without  carving  on  this  crouton  ;  then  to  arrange  the 


GAME.  435 

head,  tail,  and  wings  in  such  a  way  as  to  have  them  appear  natural  and 
lifelike,  securing  them  with  small  plated  skewers,  surrounded  with  a 
border  of  water  cress.  Another  way  is  to  stuff  the  pheasant  with  liver 
forcemeat  or  bread  filling,  then  roast  and  serve  the  same  as  chicken. 

Prairie  Hen  and  Grouse^  in  season  from  August  15th  to  February  1st. 

Prairie  Hen,  Roasted. ‚Äî Pick,  singe,  and  draw  a  nice  plump 
pair  of  prairie  hens,  wash  and  wipe  them  dry ;  season  each  one 
with  1  teaspoonful  salt ;  tie  a  large  thin  slice  of  larding  pork  over 
the  breast  of  each  one,  and  spread  1  ounce  butter  over  them ;  place 
the  birds  in  a  roasting  pan  in  a  medium-hot  oven,  basting  first  with 
melted  butter,  then  with  their  own  gravy ;  when  brown  on  all  sides 
add  1  gill  of  boiling  water  (if  the  gravy  browns  too  much  add 
more  water),  continue  roasting  and  basting  till  done.  Dress  the 
prairie  hens  on  a  hot  dish  ;  free  the  gravy  from  fat,  add  a  few 
spoonfuls  bouillon  to  the  gravy,  let  it  boil  a  few  minutes ;  then 
strain,  and  serve  with  the  birds. 

Prairie  Hen,  Potted. ‚Äî Prepare  2  nice  prairie  hens  the  same 
way  as  in  foregoing  recipe ;  run  a  trussing  needle  with  a  fine  cord 
through  the  thigh  and  body,  and  tie  the  cord  in  the  back  ;  run  the 
needle  also  through'  the  wings  and  neck,  and  tie  them  firmly  ;  sea- 
son each  one  with  1  teaspoonful  salt.  Place  a  saucepan  large 
enough  to  receive  the  birds  with  4  ounces  fine-cut  larding  pork 
over  the  fire  ;  fry  until  the  pork  begins  to  turn  straw-color,  then 
put  in  the  prairie  hens ;  add  2  ounces  butter ;  turn  them  often 
with  the  fork,  leaving  the  saucepan  uncovered  until  the  birds  have 
obtained  a  light-brown  color  ;  then  add  Yg  cup  boiling  water,  cover 
and  cook  till  they  are  done  (if  the  water  boils  away,  and  the  gravy 
should  get  too  brown,  add  a  little  more  water).  When  done,  re- 
move, and  cut  each  bird  into  6  pieces ;  arrange  on  a  hot  dish, 
the  best  pieces  on  top.  Free  the  gravy  from  fat ;  mix  1  table- 
spoonful  cornstarch  or  flour  with  1  gill  of  cold  water,  add  it  to  the 
gravy,  stir  and  cook  over  the  fire  3  minutes ;  add  sufficient  broth  or 
boiling  water  to  make  a  creamy  sauce,  boil  5  minutes,  then  strain ; 


436  GAME. 

have  the  giblets  boiled  in  water,  chopped  fine,  and  added  to  the 
gravy,  also  a  small  piece  of  butter.  Pour  the  gravy  over  the  birds, 
decorating  the  dish  with  triangle  bread  croutons,  and  serve. 

Grouse,  Roasted. ‚Äî Pick,  singe,  and  draw  a  fine  pair  of  grouse, 
wipe  out  the  inside  with  a  damp  towel  or  wash  them  quickly  in  cold 
water,  and  wipe  dry ;  season  each  one  with  1  teaspoonful  salt,  truss 
nicely,  spread  1  ounce  butter  over  each  one ;  lay  the  birds  in  a 
roasting  pan,  add  1  gill  of  water,  cover  them  with  buttered  paper, 
put  in  a  medium-hot  oven,  and  roast  and  baste  20  minutes  ;  remove 
the  paper,  continue  to  roast,  basting  freely  until  done.  When  ready 
to  serve,  untruss  the  birds,  dress  them  on  bread  croutons,  garnish 
with  water  cress  ;  free  the  gravy  from  fat ;  add  a  little  bouillon  to 
the  gravy,  boil  a  few  minutes ;  strain  and  pour  over  the  birds. 
Grouse  may  be  potted  the  same  as  prairie  hens ;  and  they  may  be 
prepared  as  a  salmi  the  same  as  teal  duck.  Broiled  grouse  is  pre- 
pared the  same  as  mallard  duck. 

Roast  Partridge  filled  with  Truffle  Dressing.‚Äî Pick, 
singe,  and  draw  2  fine  partridges,  wipe  out  the  insides.  Chop  fine 
the  2  livers  and  Yo  pound  pork  tenderloin,  pound  to  a  paste,  add  6 
fine-cut  truffles,  season  with  salt  and  pepper ;  melt  2  ounces  fine- 
chopped  larding  pork,  add  the  other  ingredients,  stir  for  a  few  min- 
utes over  the  fire  ;  then  fill  the  crop  and  body  of  the  two  partridges 
with  this  forcemeat,  sew  up,  and  truss  them  nicely ;  lay  the  birds  in 
a  round  pan  just  large  enough  to  hold  them  ;  spread  2  ounces  butter 
over  their  breasts ;  place  them  in  a  hot  oven,  and  roast,  basting  fre- 
quently till  done ;  then  untruss,  remove  the  threads,  lay  the  birds 
on  2  bread  canapes.  Add  to  the  gravy  1  tablespoonful  fine-cut 
onion,  and  carrots,  1  bay  leaf,  12  whole  peppers,  cook  5  minutes ; 
add  1  tablespoonful  flour,  stir  and  cook  3  minutes  ;  add  1  pint 
broth,  cook  5  minutes ;  add  last  1  teaspoonful  beef  extract,  and  if 
necessary  some  salt ;  strain,  and  serve  with  the  birds  ;  or  remove 
part  of  the  fat  from  the  gravy,  add  a  little  consomme  to  the  sauce ; 
boil  and  strain. 


GAME.  437 

Quail.,  in  season  from  November  to  February  1st. 
Quail^  Potted^  serred  on  Canapes. ‚Äî Pick,  singe,  draw,  and 
wipe  the  interior  of  6  fine  fat  quails,  push  the  legs  through  the 
skin,  inside,  bend  the  wings  backward ;  season  the  birds  with  1 
eS'en  tablespoonful  salt ;  place  a  low  saucepan  large  enough  to 
receive  the  birds  with  4  ounces  fine-cut  larding  pork  over  the  fire  ; 
fry  until  the  pork  turns  to  a  straw-color  ;  then  add  2  ounces  butter 
and  the  birds ;  leave  the  saucepan  open  ;  turn  the  quails  every  few 
minutes  with  a  fork  until  they  are  light  brown  on  all  sides ;  then 
add  Yg  cupful  boiling  water  or  broth  ;  cover  and  cook  slowly  from  30 
to  40  minutes,  or  till  done  ;  if  necessary  add  some  more  water,  but 
only  a  little  at  a  time.  In  the  meantime  prepare  6  small  canapes 
as  follows  :  Cut  6  slices  of  bread  Y4  inch  in  thickness  from  a  stale 
Vienna  loaf,  cut  off  the  rind,  trim  neatly ;  then  hollow  it  out  Yg 
inch  deep,  so  that  the  cavity  will  hold  the  quail ;  spread  a  little  but- 
ter all  over  the  bread,  place  the  canapes  on  a  shallow  tin  pan,  and 
brown  them  in  a  hot  oven  to  a  fine  golden  color.  Eemove  from  the 
oven ;  arrange  them  on  a  hot  dish  ;  put  a  quail  on  each  one ;  free 
the  gravy  from  fat ;  mix  1  teaspoonful  cornstarch  with  a  little  cold 
water,  add  to  the  gravy,  stir  and  cook  2  minutes  ;  add  suflQcient  broth 
or  boiling  water  to  make  a  creamy  sauce,  cook  2  minutes  ;  then  strain 
into  a  sauce  bowl,  pour  a  little  sauce  over  each  bird,  and  serve. 

Quail  broiled  Plain. ‚Äî Split  6  fine,  fat,  well-cleaned  quails 
through  the  back  without  separating  the  parts ;  break  the  2  leg  bones, 
brush  each  one  over  with  melted  butter  on  both  sides ;  lay  them  on 
a  hot  broiler  and  broil  over  a  moderate  fire,  about  8  minutes  on  each 
side,  turning  them  3  times  while  broiling.  Place  the  birds  on  a  hot 
dish ;  mix  2  ounces  butter  with  1  teaspoonful  salt  and  Y4  teaspoonful 
pepper ;  spread  this  over  the  quails,  garnish  with  croutons  made  as 
follows :  Cut  6  thin  slices  from  a  stale  loaf  of  baker's  bread,  cut 
each  slice  into  2  three-cornered  pieces ;  spread  on  both  sides  with  a 
little  butter,  and  place  them  in  a  shallow  tin  pan  ;  then  brown  in  a 
hot  oven  till  they  obtain  a  fine  golden  color ;  remove  from  the  oven, 
and  arrange  them  in  a  circle  around  the  dish ;  then  serve. 


438  GAME. 

Quail  on  Toast. ‚Äî Pick,  singe,  and  draw  6  fine  fat  quails,  wipe 
them  inside  with  a  cloth ;  season  with  1  even  tablespoonful  salt, 
evenly  distributed,  push  the  legs  through  the  skin  inside,  and  bend 
the  wings  backward  ;  tie  with  2  strings  a  thin  slice  of  larding  pork 
over  each  breast,  large  enough  to  cover  the  entire  breast ;  lay  them 
in  a  roasting  pan,  pour  over  2  ounces  melted  butter ;  add  1  gill  of 
water ;  place  in  a  hot  oven ;  cover  with  buttered  paper ;  roast  and 
baste  every  5  minutes,  each  time  replacing  the  paper;  after  15 
minutes'  roasting,  remove  the  paper  (if  the  gravy  should  become  too 
brown,  add  more  water) ;  continue  to  roast  and  baste  till  well  done, 
which  will  take  from  30  to  40  minutes ;  if  wanted  rare,  20  minutes. 
Shortly  before  serving,  arrange  6  slices  of  buttered  toast  on  a  hot 
dish ;  remove  the  strings  and  pork  from  the  birds,  lay  a  quail  on 
each  piece  of  toast ;  free  the  gravy  from  fat.  Melt  Yg  ounce  butter 
in  a  saucepan,  add  1  teaspoonf ul  flour,  stir  and  cook  5  minutes ;  add 
the  gravy  from  the  birds  and  sufficient  broth  to  make  a  creamy 
sauce ;  cook  5  minutes ;  add  a  little  beef  extract,  and,  if  necessary, 
some  salt ;  strain  the  gravy,  and  pour  1  tablespoonful  over  each 
bird ;  garnish  the  dish  with  water  cress,  and  serve.  Another  way  is 
not  to  thicken  the  gravy,  but  dilute  the  quail  gravy  with  a  few 
spoonfuls  bouillon  or  consomme  ;  let  it  boil  3  minutes,  then  strain, 
and  serve  in  a  gravy  bowl. 

Quail  a  la  Maitre  d'Hotel. ‚Äî Split  6  well-cleaned  quails 
through  the  back ;  season  them  with  1  even  tablespoonful  salt,  Yg 
even  teaspoonful  pepper,  evenly  distributed  ;  brush  each  one  lightly 
with  a  little  olive  oil  or  melted  butter ;  place  the  birds  on  a  hot 
broiler  and  broil  over  a  moderate  clear  fire  from  12  to  15  minutes, 
turning  them  every  5  minutes.  In  the  meantime  stir  2  ounces 
butter  to  a  cream ;  add  slowly  2  tablespoonfuls  lemon  juice,  1  table- 
spoonful fine-chopped  parsley,  Yg  teaspoonful  nutmeg.  Dress  the 
birds  on  a  hot  dish  with  a  piece  of  buttered  toast  under  each  one, 
spread  the  maitre  d'hotel  butter  over  the  birds,  and  serve. 

Dog  Birds,  Broiled. ‚Äî Prepared  the  same  as  quails. 


GAME.  439 

Doe  Birds,  in  season  from  May  1st  to  September  1st. 

Doe  Birds  en  Canapes. ‚Äî Singe,  draw,  and  wipe  6  fine  dog 
birds,  push  the  legs  through  the  skin,  and  bend  the  wings  over  the 
backs ;  season  with  1  even  tablespoonful  salt ;  spread  %  ounce  butter 
over  each  one.  Put  them  in  a  roasting  pan,  pour  1  gill  of  water 
into  it;  set  them  in  a  medium-hot  oven,  cover  with  buttered 
paper,  roast  10  minutes ;  then  remove  the  paper,  baste  frequently, 
and  roast  till  tender,  which  will  take  from  18  to  25  minutes ;  if 
necessary,  add  a  little  more  water.  Prepare  6  canapes  the  same  as  for 
potted  quail,  lay  them  on  a  hot  dish,  put  1  bird  on  each  canape, 
and  garnish  with  water  cress.  Free  the  gravy  from  fat ;  melt  Yg 
ounce  butter  in  a  saucepan,  add  1  teaspoonful  flour,  stir  and  cook 
3  minutes ;  add  the  gravy  from  the  birds  and  sufficient  broth  to 
make  a  creamy  sauce,  cook  5  minutes ;  strain  and  add  a  little  beef 
extract ;  pour  1  tablespoonful  sauce  over  each  bird,  and  serve. 

In  season  from  September  1st  to  January  1st. 

Reed  Birds,  Potted. ‚Äî Pick  and  singe  12  fine  fat  reed  birds, 
cut  off  the  feet  and  wings,  remove  the  skin  from  the  head  and  pick 
out  the  eyes,  remove  the  gizzard  from  the  side  with  a  skewer  and 
push  the  legs  through  the  skin  inside,  put  the  head  under  the  wing, 
and  stick  the  bill  in  the  breast.  Place  a  saucepan  with  2  ounces  fine- 
cut  larding  pork  over  the  fire,  fry  till  it  begins  to  turn  straw-color ; 
then  add  3  ounces  butter,  put  in  the  birds,  leave  the  saucepan  open, 
turn  the  birds  with  a  fork  until  they  are  light  brown  all  over ;  then 
add  Y2  pint  cream,  cover  and  cook  till  done  (if  the  gravy  should  get 
too  brown,  add  a  little  boiling  water)  ;  remove  and  dress  them  on  6 
slices  of  toast,  putting  2  birds  on  each  piece ;  remove  all  fat  from  the 
gravy,  strain  and  pour  a  little  over  each  bird,  and  garnish  with 
water  cress.     All  kinds  of  birds  may  be  prepared  in  the  same  way. 

Reed  Birds,  Roasted. ‚Äî Prepare  12  birds  the  same  as  in  fore- 
going recipe,  season  them  with  salt,  cover  the  breasts  with  a  thin 
slice  of  larding  pork  ;  place  them  in  a  roasting  pan,  spread  Yg  tea- 
spoonful  butter  over  each  bird,  set  in  a  medium-hot  oven  to  roast 


440  GAME. 

from  10  to  12  minutes ;  dress  them  on  6  slices  of  buttered  toast, 
free  the  gravy  from  fat,  dilute  it  with  a  few  spoonfuls  broth,  and 
serve  it  with  the  birds,  or  pour  a  little  over  each  bird.  In  roasting 
birds  care  should  be  taken  not  to  have  the  pan  in  which  the  birds 
are  roasted  any  larger  than  is  necessary  to  hold  them. 

Woodcock,  in  seaso7ifrom  August  15t1i  to  February  1st. 

Woodcock,  Roasted. ‚Äî Select  3  fine  woodcocks,  pick,  singe, 
and  draw  them  ;  remove  the  skin  from  neck  and  head,  pick  out  the 
eyes,  twist  the  feet  together,  run  the  bill  through  the  left  foot ; 
season  the  birds  with  salt,  cover  the  breasts  with  a  thin  slice  of  lard- 
ing pork,  and  lay  them  in  a  roasting  pan ;  pour  over  2  ounces 
melted  butter,  set  them  in  a  hot  oven,  and  roast  from  15  to  20  min- 
utes ;  chop  the  hearts  and  livers  of  the  woodcocks  fine,  mix  them 
with  Y2  ounce  melted  butter,  2  tablespoonfuls  grated  bread  crumbs, 
season  with  1  even  teaspoouful  salt,  Y4  even  teaspoonful  pepper,  and 
a  sprinkle  of  nutmeg ;  mix  all  together.  Then  cut  3  slices  from  a 
stale  loaf  of  baker's  bread,  cut  each  slice  into  2  pieces,  pare  off  the 
rind,  trim  them  neatly,  and  spread  both  sides  over  with  a  little  but- 
ter ;  lay  them  on  a  tin  pan,  set  the  pan  in  a  hot  oven  till  the  bread 
has  obtained  a  fine  golden  color,  then  remove,  and  cover  one  side  of 
them  with  the  chopped  hearts  and  livers  ;  return  them  to  the  pan, 
pour  over  a  little  melted  butter,  and  bake  5  minutes  in  a  hot  oven ; 
cut  the  birds  in  halves,  lay  1  half  over  each  piece  of  crolitons,  gar- 
nish with  water  cress,  and  serve  ;  dilute  the  gravy  with  a  little  con- 
somme and  serve  in  a  sauce  bowl. 

Woodcock,  Broiled. ‚Äî Broil  the  woodcock  the  same  as  quail, 
and  garnish  with  broiled  bacon. 

Snipe,  in  season  from  September  1st  to  January  1st. 
English  Snipe,  Roasted. ‚Äî Pick,  singe,  and  draw  V2  dozen 
fine  snipes,  remove  the  skin  from  the  heads,  pick  out  the  eyes,  truss 
the  legs  together,  skewer  the  head  under  one  leg,  season  with  salt, 
and  cover  the  breasts  with  a  thin  layer  of  larding  pork  ;  place  the 
birds  in  a  roasting  pan,  pour  over  1  ounce  melted  butter,  set  the  pan 


GAME.  44X 

in  a  hot  oven,  pour  1  gill  of  water  in  the  pan,  and  roast  and  baste 
frequently  till  done.  Chop  the  hearts  and  livers  fine,  mix  them 
with  Y2  ounce  melted  butter,  1  tablespoonful  grated  bread  crumbs, 
season  with  pepper  and  salt  and  a  little  nutmeg  ;  spread  this  over  6 
pieces  of  bread  croutons,  sprinkle  over  them  a  little  melted  butter,  and 
place  for  5  minutes  in  a  hot  oven.  Lay  the  croutons  on  a  hot  dish, 
dress  the  birds  over  them,  garnish  with  water  cress  ;  free  the  gravy 
from  fat,  add  a  little  broth,  cook  3  minutes  ;  then  strain  and  serve 
with  the  birds.     Snipe  may  be  potted  or  broiled  the  same  as  quails. 

Partridge,  from  August  15th  to  February  1st, 

Partridge,  Roasted. ‚Äî Procure  2  fine  partridges,  singe,  draw, 
wipe,  and  truss  them  nicely ;  season  with  1  even  tablespoonful 
salt ;  lay  a  few  slices  of  larding  pork  in  a  roasting  pan,  put  the 
partridges  on  top  the  pork,  spread  2  ounces  butter  over  them,  and 
cover  the  breasts  with  thin  slices  of  larding  pork  ;  place  the  pan  in 
a  medium-hot  oven,  roast  and  baste  frequently  till  done  (if  the 
gravy  should  become  too  brown,  add  a  little  water).  Dress  the  par- 
tridges on  a  hot  dish,  lay  a  border  of  triangle  bread  croutons  around 
the  dish,  and  brush  the  birds  over  with  glaze ;  free  the  gravy  from  fat, 
add  a  few  spoonfuls  broth,  cook  2  minutes ;  then  strain  and  serve  in 
a  sauce  bowl ;  or  dilute  1  teaspoonf  ul  cornstarch  with  a  little  cold  wa- 
ter, add  it  to  the  gravy ;  add  sufficient  broth  to  make  a  creamy  sauce, 
cook  a  few  minutes,  then  strain.  The  partridges  may  be  cut  in 
halves,  then  arranged  neatly  on  a  hot  dish,  and  served  the  same  way. 

Partridge  a  la  Soubise. ‚Äî Truss  2  well-cleaned  partridges, 
season  with  1  even  tablespoonful  salt;  place  a  saucepan  with  4 
ounces  larding  pork  over  the  fire,  fry  to  a  light  straw-color,  add  2 
ounces  butter  and  the  partridges  ;  leave  the  saucepan  uncovered 
till  the  birds  have  assumed  a  light-brown  color  all  over,  turning 
them  frequently;  then  add  Yg  cupful  broth,  cover  and  cook  till 
done.  At  the  same  time  place  a  saucepan  with  6  medium-sized 
peeled  white  onions  over  the  fire,  cover  with  boiling  water,  cook  10 
minutes ;  then  drain  and  chop  fine,  add  1  ounce  butter,  1  even  tea- 


442  GAME. 

spoonful  salt,  Yg  gill  white  pepper,  Yi  teaspoonful  nutmeg,  cover 
and  cook  20  minutes.  In  the  meantime  melt  1  ounce  butter  in  a 
saucepan,  add  Ya  tablespoonful  flour,  stir  and  cook  3  minutes ;  add 
Y2  bay  leaf,  6  whole  peppers,  and  a  little  salt ;  add  Ys  cupful  boiling 
white  broth,  stir  and  cook  5  minutes ;  then  add  it  to  the  onions ; 
add  Yspiat  cream,  cook  3  minutes ;  then  press  it  through  a  sieve,  add 
Y4  teaspoonful  sugar.  Cut  the  partridges  in  halves,  or  cut  each  one 
lengthwise  into  3  pieces,  dress  them  on  a  hot  dish,  pour  over  the 
onion  sauce,  and  serve  ;  or  serve  the  sauce  separate.  Another  way  is 
to  pour  the  sauce  ou  to  a  hot  dish,  and  dress  the  partridges  over  it. 

Chartreuse  of  Partridge. ‚Äî Cut  6  large  well-cleaned  carrots 
into  lengths  IY2  inch  wide,  then  bore  out  small  stems  IY2  inch  in 
length  with  an  apple  corer ;  place  the  vegetables  into  a  saucepan, 
cover  with  boiling  water ;  add  1  teaspoonful  sugar  and  boil  till  half 
done  ;  then  drain  and  set  them  aside  to  cool.  Prepare  a  forcemeat 
either  of  game,  chicken,  or  pork  tenderloin  ;  butter  a  plain  timbale 
form,  decorate  the  sides  and  bottom  with  the  carrot  and  turnips, 
put  in  the  forcemeat,  press  it  evenly  on  the  sides  and  bottom  with- 
out disturbing  the  decorations,  then  place  it  on  ice  or  in  a  cool 
place.  Select  2  heads  of  Savoy  cabbage,  remove  the  outside  leaves, 
cut  the  cabbage  into  4  parts,  place  them  in  a  saucepan  with  Y2  pound 
lean  salt  pork,  and  cover  with  boiling  water ;  add  1  tablespoonful 
sugar,  and  boil  Ys  hour ;  then  drain  off  the  water ;  return  the  cab- 
bage to  the  saucepan ;  add  the  pork,  3  white  onions,  1  even  table- 
spoonful salt,  1  even  teaspoonful  pepper,  and  cover  with  white 
broth.  Season  2  well-cleaned  partridges  with  1  teaspoonful  salt, 
spread  2  ounces  butter  over  the  breast,  place  them  in  a  roasting 
pan  ;  set  the  pan  in  a  hot  oven,  and  roast  15  minutes  ;  then  remove, 
put  the  birds  in  the  center  of  the  cabbage,  and  cook  1  hour ;  take 
out  the  partridges ;  remove  the  meat  from  the  bones,  cut  it  into 
slices ;  drain  the  cabbage  on  a  sieve,  press  out  all  the  moisture  ;  put 
the  cabbage  in  the  timbale  form,  leave  a  hollow  in  the  center,  put 
in  the  meat  from  the  partridges,  and  cover  with  cabbage ;  place  the 


GAME.  443 

mold  in  a  pan  of  hot  water,  cover  with  buttered  paper,  and  bake 
45  minutes  in  a  medium-hot  oven.  Turn  the  chartreuse  on  to  a 
hot  dish,  let  it  stand  a  few  minutes,  then  lift  the  form  off. 
Serve  with  the  following  sauce  :  Add  to  the  butter  in  which  the 
partridges  were  roasted  1  fine-chopped  onion,  1  tablespoonful  fine- 
cut  carrot,  1  bay  leaf,  and  12  whole  peppers,  cook  5  minutes ;  add  1 
tablespoonful  flour,  stir  and  cook  3  minutes ;  add  1  pint  of  broth,  1 
teaspoonful  beef  extract,  and  cook  5  minutes ;  then  strain  the  sauce 
into  a  clean  saucepan,  add  Yg  ounce  butter  in  small  pieces  ;  stir  for 
2  minutes  over  the  fire.     Serve  in  a  sauce  bowl. 

Partridge,  Larded  and  Roasted. ‚Äî Procure  2  fine  plump 
partridges,  pick,  singe,  draw,  and  wipe  them  ;  remove  the  skin 
from  the  breast,  and  then  dip  the  breasts  into  boiling  water ;  wipe 
dry,  and  with  a  fine  needle  lard  the  breast  with  small  strips  of  lard- 
ing pork  ;  season  each  partridge  with  Yg  teaspoonful  salt ;  place 
them  in  a  round  pan  just  large  enough  to  receive  the  birds ;  pour 
Y2  ounce  of  melted  butter  over  each  one ;  set  them  in  a  hot  oven  to 
roast  15  minutes,  basting  frequently  (if  the  partridges  are  young  they 
will  cook  in  that  time ;  if  old,  they  will  take  longer).  Serve  them  on 
a  hot  dish,  either  plain  or  on  bread  croutons,  and  garnish  with  water 
cress  ;  add  a  little  bouillon  or  broth  to  the  gravy  after  removing  most 
of  the  fat ;  boil  2  minutes,  then  strain.  The  gravy  may  be  poured 
over  the  birds  or  served  separate.  Prairie  hens,  pigeons,  grouse, 
quails,  and  all  kinds  of  birds  are  larded  and  roasted  the  same  way. 

Prairie  Hen  or  Partridge  with  Cabbage.‚Äî Cut  1  good- 
sized  head  of  cabbage  into  4  pieces  ;  place  it  in  a  saucepan  with  Ya 
pound  of  lean  salt  pork,  add  1  tablespoonful  sugar,  cover  with  boil- 
ing water,  and  cook  20  minutes  ;  then  drain  off  the  water,  return 
the  cabbage  in  a  saucepan  to  the  fire,  cover  with  white  broth  ;  add 
the  pork,  and  season  with  1  even  tablespoonful  salt,  1  even  tea- 
spoonful pepper ;  add  3  white  onions,  cover  and  cook  2  hours. 
Pick,  singe,  and  draw  2  fine  plump  partridges  or  prairie  hens,  wipe 
the  insides  with  a  clean  cloth  ;  season  with  1  teaspoonful  salt,  evenly 
29 


444:  GAME. 

distributed  ;  spread  2  ounces  butter  over  the  breast ;  lay  the  birds 
in  a  round  pan  Just  large  enough  to  hold  them  ;  set  the  pan  in  a 
hot  oven,  roast  ]  5  minutes,  basting  frequently ;  then  take  out  the 
birds,  put  them  in  the  center  of  the  cabbage,  so  that  they  are  com- 
pletely covered  with  the  cabbage  ;  cover  them  tightly  and  place  the 
saucepan  in  a  hot  oven  to  bake  45  minutes.  Add  to  the  butter  in 
which  the  partridges  were  roasted  1  fine-chopped  onion,  1  table- 
spoonful  fine-chopped  carrots,  1  bay  leaf,  and  12  whole  peppers ;  cook 
over  the  fire  5  minutes ;  then  add  1  tablespoonf  ul  flour,  stir  and 
cook  3  minutes ;  add  1  pint  white  broth,  1  even  teaspoonful  salt, 
cook  slowly  8  minutes  ;  then  strain  into  a  sauce  bowl.  Prepare  and 
cook  at  the  same  time  Yg  pint  of  carrot  balls,  1  pint  potato  balls, 
and  Yg  pint  small  white  onions.  Put  the  fowls  on  a  hot  dish,  sur- 
round them  with  the  cabbage ;  cut  the  pork  into  small  slices,  lay 
them  on  top  the  cabbage  ;  arrange  the  carrots,  potatoes,  and  onions 
in  clusters  around  the  dish  of  cabbage,  and  serve  with  the  sauce. 

Partridge  Saute. ‚Äî Cut  2  well-cleaned  partridges  into  pieces ; 
season  them  with  1  even  teaspoonful  pepper  and  1  even  tablespoon- 
ful  salt ;  mix  the  seasoning  and  the  partridges  well  together.  Place 
a  saucepan  with  1  ounce  butter  over  the  fire,  put  in  the  partridges, 
cook  5  minutes  ;  turn  the  pieces  over,  cook  5  minutes  longer  ;  then 
add  1  fine-chopped  onion,  1  gill  Madeira  wine,  cover  and  cook 
slowly  10  minutes.  Place  a  saucepan  with  Ys  ounce  butter,  1  table- 
spoonful  chopped  onion  and  the  same  of  carrots  over  the  fire,  add  Y2 
bay  leaf,  6  whole  peppers,  cook  5  minutes ;  add  1  teaspoonful  flour, 
stir  and  cook  2  minutes  ;  add  Y2  pii^t  of  white  broth,  1  gill  of  mush- 
room liquor,  Y2  even  teaspoonful  salt,  cook  slowly  10  minutes ;  then 
strain  the  sauce,  add  it  to  the  partridges  ;  add  Y2  piJit  canned  mush- 
rooms, cook  slowly  10  minutes  ;  add  last  1  tablespoonf  ul  lemon  juice. 
Cut  6  slices  from  a  small  loaf  of  baker's  bread,  cut  each  on  the  bias 
into  2  pieces,  pare  off  the  rind,  spread  both  sides  with  a  little  butter ; 
lay  them  on  a  tin  plate,  set  them  in  a  hot  oven  till  they  have 
assumed  a  fine  golden  color ;  then  remove,  and  lay  them  in  a  circle 
around  the  dish. 


GAME.  445 

Fillets  of  Partridge,  Prairie  Hen,  or  Grouse.‚Äî Pick, 
singe,  draw,  and  wipe  1  or  2  fine  plump  partridges,  prairie  hens,  or 
grouse ;  cut  with  a  small  knife  through  the  center  of  the  breast,  re- 
move the  skin,  then  loosen  the  meat,  lift  the  entire  breast  with  the 
wing  bone  from  the  bone ;  underneath  the  breast,  is  a  small  fillet 
called  the  mignon ;  separate  this  from  the  breast  and  lay  it  on  a 
separate  dish.    The  fillets  are  then  ready  to  be  cooked  in  various  ways. 

Fillets  of  Partridge  a  la  Sancroise. ‚Äî Kemove  the  breast 
from  3  fine  plump  partridges  as  directed  in  foregoing  recipe; 
season  them  with  1  even  tablespoonful  salt,  Yg  even  teaspoonful 
pepper ;  lay  the  small  mignons  in  the  center  on  top  of  each  fillet ; 
make  2  slanting  incisions  on  each  mignon,  then  cut  a  few  mush- 
rooms into  slices,  then  into  narrow  strips,  put  1  strip  of  mushroom 
into  each  incision  ;  lay  the  fillets  in  a  round  pan  just  large  enough 
to  receive  them,  pour  over  2  ounces  melted  butter,  cover  them  with 
buttered  paper,  and  set  aside  until  the  following  ragout  is  prepared  : 
Remove  the  remaining  meat  from  the  partridges ;  place  a  saucepan 
with  2  ounces  fine-cut  larding  pork  over  the  fire  ;  add  1  tablespoon- 
ful fine-chopped  onion,  cook  5  minutes  without  browning;  add  half 
the  meat  from  the  partridges  and  the  livers,  stir  and  cook  10  min- 
utes ;  then  remove,  add  the  remaining  raw  meat  chopped  ex- 
ceedingly fine.  Now  place  a  small  saucepan  with  Y2  gill  of  boiling 
water,  Yg  teaspoonful  butter  over  the  fire ;  add  1  gill  of  flour,  stir 
and  cook  till  it  forms  into  a  smooth  paste,  then  remove  ;  when  cold 
add  it  to  the  chopped  meat,  add  the  yolk  of  1  egg  and  1  whole  egg ; 
season  with  1  teaspoonful  salt,  Ys  6ven  teaspoonful  pepper,  Y4  tea- 
spoonful nutmeg,  mix  all  well  together ;  then  form  with  2  teaspoons 
small  dumplings  from  this ;  lay  them  in  a  buttered  pan,  and  set 
aside.  Chop  the  bodies  of  the  partridges  into  pieces,  place  them  in 
a  saucepan  with  1  ounce  butter,  stir  and  cook  10  minutes ;  then 
add  IY2  pint  broth,  1  fine-chopped  onion,  12  whole  peppers,  and  1 
bay  leaf,  cover  and  cook  30  minutes ;  strain  the  broth.  Melt  1 
ounce  butter  in  a  saucepan,  add  1  tablespoonful  flour,  stir  and  cook 
3  minutes ;   add  1%  cupful  of  the  above-named  broth,  Ys  cupful 


446  GAME. 

mushroom  liquor,  12  canned  mushrooms,  1  even  teaspoonful  salt,  Y4 
teaspoonf ul  pepper,  Yg  gill  of  sherry  wine,  cook  10  minutes.  Fifteen 
minutes  before  serving  place  the  fillets  in  a  hot  oven,  and  roast  12 
minutes;  then  remove.  Pour  through  a  funnel  sufficient  boiling 
water  in  the  pan  with  the  dumplings,  set  them  over  the  fire,  and 
simmer  6  minutes  ;  then  carefully  remove  them  with  a  skimmer  to 
a  hot  dish,  pour  over  the  sauce,  and  arrange  the  fillets  in  a  circle 
around  the  dish.  Fillets  of  partridges  and  prairie  hens  may  be  pre- 
pared the  same  as  chicken  fillets. 

Boast  Partridge  or  Prairie  Hen,  Filled. ‚Äî Pick,  singe,  and 
draw  2  fine  plump  partridges,  wipe  out  the  inside,  season  with  1  even 
tablespoonful  salt.  For  the  dressing,  boil  Yg  pound  of  large  chest- 
nuts 20  minutes ;  drain,  remove  the  shell  and  brown  skin ;  return 
the  chestnuts,  in  saucepan,  to  the  fire,  cover  with  milk,  add  a  little 
sugar,  and  boil  till  tender ;  remove  and  mash  them  fine ;  fry  1 
tablespoonful  fine-chopped  onion  in  1  ounce  butter  5  minute  with- 
out browning ;  add  Y2  pound  sausage  meat  and  the  2  fine-chopped 
livers,  stir  and  cook  10  minutes ;  then  take  it  from  the  fire,  add  the 
chestnuts,  season  with  1  even  teaspoonful  salt,  Yg  even  teaspoonful 
pepper,  and  fill  the  partridges  with  this ;  sew  it  up,  truss  the  legs 
inside,  lay  the  birds  in  a  roasting  pan  no  larger  then  necessary  to 
hold  them  ;  pour  over  2  ounces  butter,  set  the  pan  in  a  medium-hot 
oven,  and  roast  till  light  brown,  basting  frequently ;  then  add  1  gill 
of  broth  or  water,  continue  to  roast  and  baste  till  done.  Dress  the 
partridges  on  a  warm  dish.  Add  Y2  tablespoonful  flour  to  the  gravy, 
stir  and  cook  3  minutes  on  top  of  the  stove  ;  add  Y2  V^^^  broth,  cook 
3  minutes ;  then  strain  and  serve  in  a  sauce  bowl.  Partridges 
may  be  filled  with  plain  bread  dressing  or  sausage  forcemeat. 

Venison  in  season  from  15th  of  August  till  15th  of  November. 

Saddle  of  Yenison  with  Currant  Jelly.‚Äî Select  a  small  sad- 
dle of  venison,  about  6  pounds  in  weight ;  remove  the  skin  from  the 
surface  and  trim  it  neatly ;  lard  it  with  fine  strips  of  larding  pork, 
either  cross  or  lengthwise ;  season  with  1  tablespoonful  salt,  and  tie 


GAME.  447 

it  into  a  round  shape  with  3  strings ;  lay  the  meat  in  a  roasting  pan ; 
add  1  sliced  onion  and  a  small  carrot  cut  into  slices,  pour  over  2 
ounces  melted  butter  ;  place  the  pan  in  a  hot  oven  and  roast  1  hour, 
basting  frequently  with  its  own  gravy,  adding  a  little  water  if  the 
gravy  should  get  too  brown.  When  done  remove  the  meat  to  a  hot 
dish ;  add  to  the  gravy  in  the  pan  3  tablespoonf  uls  sherry  wine  and 
the  same  of  broth,  let  it  come  to  a  boil ;  then  strain  ;  remove  all  the 
fat,  pour  the  gravy  over  the  meat,  and  serve  with  the  following 
sauce  :  Melt  Yg  ounce  butter  in  a  small  saucepan  ;  add  1  teaspoonful 
flour,  cook  and  stir  2  minutes  ;  add  Y2  cupful  boiling  water,  Y2  tea- 
spoonful  beef  extract,  Y4  teaspoonful  salt,  cook  and  stir  2  minutes ; 
then  add  1  gill  of  port  wine  and  1  cupful  currant  jelly ;  cook  a 
few  minutes,  and  serve. 

Saddle  of  Tenison  roasted  a  rAllemande.‚Äî Procure  a 

saddle  of  young  venison,  remove  the  sinews  and  pare  it  neatly ;  lard 
it  lengthwise  in  4  rows  with  fine  strips  of  larding  pork ;  season  with 

1  tablespoonf  ul  salt ;  lay  the  meat  in  a  roasting  pan,  spread  2  ounces 
butter  over  the  surface,  and  place  in  a  hot  oven  to  roast  until  it  be- 
gins to  brown,  basting  it  freely  with  its  own  gravy ;  then  add  1  pint 
of  sour  cream,  continue  to  baste  and  roast  till  done,  which  will  take 
about  1  hour.  Shortly  before  serving  transfer  the  meat  to  a  hot 
dish.  Free  the  gravy  from  the  fat ;  mix  Y2  tablespoonful  cornstarch 
with  Y2  gill  cold  water,  add  it  to  the  gravy ;  set  the  pan  on  top  the 
stove,  stir  and  cook  a  few  minutes ;  add  sufficient  boiling  water  or 
broth  to  make  a  pint  of  sauce,  cook  2  minutes ;  then  strain.     Pour 

2  tablespoonfuls  sauce  over  the  venison,  and  serve  with  compote  and 
salad.  A  leg  of  venison  may  be  prepared  in  the  same  way  for  com- 
pote and  salad  (see  my  book  on  Desserts  and  Salads). 

RagOiit  of  Tenison. ‚Äî Take  2Y3  pounds  of  venison  of  the  fore- 
quarter,  cut  it  into  pieces  IY2  inch  in  size  ;  place  a  saucepan  with  1 
ounce  butter  and  2  tablespoonfuls  chopped  onion  over  the  fire, 
cook  3  minutes ;  season  the  venison  with  1  tablespoonful  seasoning 
salt,  rub  the  seasoning  and  the  meat  well  together,  add  it  to  the 


448  GAME. 

saucepan,  cover  and  cook  15  minutes,  stirring  often ;  than  add  Yg 
cupful  broth,  made  of  the  remnants  of  venison,  cover  and  cook  20 
minutes.  Melt  1  ounce  butter  in  a  saucepan,  add  1  tablespoonful 
flour,  stir  and  cook  2  minutes ;  add  1  cupful  broth,  cook  a  few 
minutes,  and  add  it  to  the  meat ;  add  the  juice  of  Yg  lemon,  boil  3 
minutes  longer,  and  serve.  This  ragout  may  be  served  in  a  border 
of  nudles,  spaghetti,  or  potato  dumplings,  or  in  a  border  of  bread 
croutons. 

Civet  of  Tenison  a  la  Fran^aise. ‚Äî Cut  2  pounds  of  lean 
venison  meat  into  small  pieces,  lay  it  is  a  covered  dish ;  season  with 
1  tablespoonful  salt,  1  teaspoonful  white  pepper,  1  large  sliced 
onion,  Ys  cupful  vinegar,  Y2  bunch  of  parsley,  1  sprig  of  thyme,  1 
bay  leaf,  1  tablespoonful  whole  peppers  ;  mix  all  well  together,  cover 
and  let  it  stand  overnight.  One  hour  before  serving,  melt  2  ounces 
butter  in  a  saucepan,  add  2  tablespoonfuls  flour,  stir  and  cook  a  few 
minutes ;  add  3  cupfuls  of  meat  broth  or  boiling  water  with  2  tea- 
spoonfuls  beef  extract ;  drain  the  meat ;  add  the  spice,  onions,  and 
the  liquid  from  the  meat;  boil  15  minutes,  then  strain,  return  the 
sauce  to  the  saucepan,  put  in  the  venison,  and  boil  gently  45 
minutes ;  arrange  it  on  a  hot  dish,  and  serve  with  small  German 
potatoes,  which  should  first  be  peeled  and  parboiled  in  water,  then 
drained  and  sauted  in  butter.  Civet  of  hare  and  rabbits  is  prepared 
in  the  same  way. 

Tenison  Steak  a  la  Maltre  d'Hotel. ‚Äî Procure  6  small  steaks 
from  a  nice  leg  of  venison,  weighing  in  all  about  SYs  pounds ;  season 
with  1  even  teaspoonful  salt  and  pepper,  brush  them  over  with 
melted  butter  or  fine  oil,  lay  the  steaks  on  a  hot  broiler,  and  broil  5 
minutes  on  each  side  over  a  moderate  fire  ;  dress  them  on  a  hot  dish, 
spread  over  2  ounces  maitre  d'hotel  butter,  and  serve ;  garnish  with 
water  cress  and  French  fried  potatoes. 

Tenison  Steak  with  Currant-jelly  Sauce.‚Äî Prepare  and 
broil  6  small  venison  steaks  the  same  as  in  foregoing  recipe.  Pre- 
pare the  sauce  as  follows:  Place  a  small  saucepan  with  Ys  table- 


GAME.  449 

spoonful  fine-choj)ped  onion,  the  same  of  carrots  and  ham,  over  the 
fire ;  add  Yg  ounce  butter,  Yg  bay  leaf,  6  whole  peppers,  cook  5  min- 
utes ;  add  Y2  teaspoonf ul  flour,  stir  and  cook  3  minutes ;  add  IY3 
gill  of  broth,  a  little  beef  extract,  Y2  even  teaspoonful  salt,  cook  5 
minutes ;  then  strain  the  sauce  into  a  clean  saucepan,  add  1  gill  of 
port  wine,  and  cook  5  minutes ;  add  1  glass  of  currant  jelly,  cook 
until  the  jelly  is  dissolved ;  pour  the  sauce  on  to  a  hot  dish  and 
dress  the  steaks  over  it ;  garnish  with  potato  croquettes  the  size  of  a 
hickory  nut,  or  bread  croutons.  Venison  steak  may  be  served  with 
Colbert  sauce,  Madeira  sauce,  or  with  1  pint  of  chestnut  puree  on  a 
hot  dish  and  the  steaks  dressed  over  it. 

Tenison  Steak  broiled  Plain. ‚Äî Brush  6  small  venison 
steaks  over  with  melted  butter,  lay  them  on  a  hot  broiler,  and  broil 
5  minutes  on  each  side.  In  the  meantime  stir  2  ounces  butter  to  a 
cream ;  add  1  even  tablespoonful  salt,  Yg  even  teaspoonful  pepper ; 
spread  this  over  both  sides  of  the  steaks ;  garnish  with  potato  pa- 
tricia  and  water  cress  or  with  Sarah  Bernhardt  potatoes. 

Tenison  garnished  with  Aspic. ‚Äî Skin,  lard,  and  roast  a  loin 
of  venison,  cut  off  the  fillets  close  to  the  bone,  and  carve  into  slices; 
put  the  slices  back  into  their  former  places  so  that  they  look  as  if 
they  had  not  been  cut.  Glaze  the  whole  and  garnish  with  chopped 
aspic  and  water  cress. 

Leg  of  Tenison  in  Aspic. ‚Äî Have  a  leg  of  a  young  venison 
larded  and  roasted ;  when  cold  cut  the  upper  side  into  slices  and 
put  them  in  their  former  places  again.  Glaze  and  garnish  with 
chopped  aspic,  water  cress,  or  white  lettuce  leaves ;  twist  a  frill  of 
fringed  paper  around  the  knuckle,  and  serve. 

Cold  Roast  Tenison  in  Aspic‚Äî Cut  from  a  roasted  leg  of 
venison  nice  square  pieces  about  2  inches  in  size.  Place  a  deep 
form  in  a  pan  of  cracked  ice,  pour  into  the  form  some  aspic  (see 
Aspic)  Ys  inch  high,  and  let  this  get  firm ;  then  cover  it  with  a  dec- 
orations of  boiled  beets  cut  into  scallops,  slices  of  hard-boiled  eggs, 
small  green  pickles,  capers,  and  small  white  onions.     Cover  with 


450  GAME. 

aspic,  let  it  get  firm,  put  in  some  of  the  meat,  and  cover  again  with 
asjjic ;  continue  alternately  with  aspic,  meat,  and  the  other  ingredi- 
ents until  the  form  is  full ;  let  the  last  layer  be  aspic.  "When  firm  and 
ready  to  serve  hold  the  form  for  a  second  in  hot  water,  turn  it  on  to 
a  round  dish,  and  garnish  with  parsley.     Serve  with  mayonnaise. 

Hare  and  Ral)bits,  Roasted. ‚Äî Remove  the  entire  skin  from  2' 
good-sized  rabbits  or  a  good-sized  hare,  then  the  fine  skin ;  cut  off 
the  head,  open  the  belly,  remove  the  insides,  carefully  separate  the 
gall  from  the  liver,  wash  and  wipe  the  hare  dry,  lard  with  fine  strips 
of  larding  pork,  season  with  1  even  teaspoonful  salt,  lay  into  a 
roasting  pan,  put  2  ounces  butter  in  small  pieces  over  it,  place  in  a 
hot  oven,  and  roast,  basting  frequently  till  light  brown  ;  then  add 
a  little  water,  and  roast  till  done,  which  will  take  about  45  minutes ; 
the  meat  should  be  juicy  and  rare  on  the  bone.  Lay  the  hare  on  a 
hot  dish,  garnish  with  shaved  pink  and  white  horseradish,  and  serve 
with  celery-root  salad  and  currant  jelly.  (For  salad,  see  my  book 
on  Desserts  and  Salads.) 

Hare  roasted  a  I'Anglaise. ‚Äî Remove  the  entire  skin  from  a 
good-sized  hare,  leaving  on  the  head  and  feet ;  then  cut  off  the  fine 
skin  with  a  sharp  knife,  wash  and  wipe  dry,  lard  with  fine  strips  of 
larding  pork ;  then  season  with  1  even  tablespoonful  salt,  Vg  even 
teaspoonful  pepper ;  stuff  it  with  the  following  filling :  Mix  the 
crumbs  of  Yg  small  loaf  of  bread  with  Yg  pound  fine-chopped  veal 
fat  or  suet,  season  with  1  teaspoonful  salt,  Ys  teaspoonful  pepper, 
Y2  teaspoonful  nutmeg,  the  same  of  thyme,  marjoram,  fine-chopped 
parsley,  Y2  gi^  of  cream  or  milk,  1  whole  egg,  and  2  yolks ;  stuff  the 
hare  with  this ;  sew  up,  lay  in  a  roasting  pan,  put  a  skewer  through 
the  shoulder  and  head,  and  skewer  the  hind  legs  close  to  the  body, 
so  that  the  hare  sits  in  the  pan  as  if  alive;  put  2  ounces  butter  in 
small  pieces  over  the  top,  set  the  pan  in  a  hot  oven,  and  roast  till 
light  brown,  basting  freely  with  its  own  gravy ;  then  add  1  gill  of 
boiling  water,  continue  to  roast  till  done ‚Äî about  1  hour ;  the  meat 
should  be  juicy  and  rare  on  the  bone.     Lay  the  hare  on  a  hot  dish, 


GAME.  451 

remove  the  skewers  and  threads ;  then  free  the  gravy  from  fat,  add 
a  little  broth  to  the  gravy,  let  it  boil  up,  strain,  and  serve  in  a  sauce 
bowl ;  send  currant  jelly  to  table  with  it. 

Hare  roasted  a  PAllemande.‚Äî Skin  and  draw  a  fine  young 
hare,  wash  and  wipe  it  dry,  cut  off  head,  shoulders,  and  the  front 
legs,  remove  the  fine  skin  with  a  sharp  knife,  and  lard  it  with  fine 
strips  of  larding  pork ;  season  with  1  even  tablespoonful  salt ;  lay 
the  hare  in  a  roasting  pan,  pour  2  ounces  melted  butter  over,  place 
the  pan  in  a  hot  oven,  roast,  basting  frequently,  till  light  brown ; 
then  add  by  degrees  1  pint  sour  cream,  baste  freely,  and  roast  till 
done.  When  ready  to  serve,  lay  the  hare  on  a  hot  dish,  add  a  little 
broth  to  the  gravy,  boil  for  a  few  minutes,  then  strain ;  pour  a  few 
spoonfuls  of  the  gravy  over  the  hare  and  serve  the  remainder  in  a 
sauce  bowl,  or  add  1  teaspoonful  cornstarch,  dissolved  in  cold  water, 
to  the  gravy,  stir  and  boil  3  minutes ;  add  sufficient  broth  or  bou- 
illon to  make  a  creamy  sauce,  cook  5  minutes,  then  strain,  and 
serve. 

Ciyet  of  Ralblbit. ‚Äî Skin  and  clean  2  good-sized  rabbits ;  wash 
and  wipe  them  dry ;  carefully  remove  the  gall  from  the  liver,  cut 
each  rabbit  into  8  pieces ;  season  them  with  1  tablespoonful  salt,  1 
teaspoonful  pepper ;  rub  the  meat  and  seasoning  well  together ; 
then  put  the  rabbits  with  the  livers  and  hearts  in  a  covered  dish, 
add  Ya  pint  red  wine,  2  onions  cut  into  slices,  2  bay  leaves,  6  cloves, 
12  whole  peppers,  cover  the  dish,  and  let  it  stand  for  several  hours ; 
then  take  out  the  meat.  Place  a  saucepan  with  2  ounces  fine-cut 
larding  pork  over  the  fire,  fry  for  a  few  minutes ;  add  2  ounces 
butter  and  the  sliced  onions  chopped  fine,  cook  3  minutes ;  then 
add  the  rabbits,  cover  and  cook  20  minutes,  turning  the  pieces  over 
several  times  with  a  fork.  Melt  1  ounce  butter  in  a  saucepan,  add 
1  heaping  tablespoonful  flour,  stir  and  cook  2  minutes ;  add  the 
wine  and  spice  the  rabbits  laid  in  and  Yg  pint  of  broth,  cook  5  min- 
utes ;  then  strain  this  sauce,  add  it  to  the  rabbits ;  add  1  table- 
spoonful lemon  juice  and,  if  necessary,  more  salt ;  cook  ten  min- 


452  GAME. 

utes  longer,  or  until  done ;  serve  on  a  hot  dish  in  a  border  of  bread 
croutons,  or  serve  with  potato  croquettes. 

Ralbbit,  Roasted. ‚Äî Remove  the  entire  skin  from  2  rabbits, 
cut  off  the  fine  skin  and  head ;  lard  the  surface  with  small  strips  of 
larding  pork  ;  season  with  1  even  tablespoonful  salt,  lay  the  rabbits 
in  a  roasting  pan,  pour  over  2  ounces  melted  butter,  roast  until 
light  brown,  then  add  Yg  cupful  boiling  water,  continue  to  roast, 
basting  frequently  till  done.  Lay  the  rabbits  on  a  hot  dish,  remove 
some  of  the  fat  from  the  gravy  ;  mix  1  teaspoonful  cornstarch  with 
1  gill  of  cold  water,  add  it  to  the  gravy,  stir  and  cook  3  minutes; 
add  sufficient  broth  to  make  a  creamy  sauce,  cook  5  minutes ;  then 
strain ;  pour  2  tablespoonf uls  gravy  over  the  rabbits,  and  serve  the 
rest  in  a  sauce  bowl.  Serve  with  red  cabbage  a  I'allemande  and 
potatoes  a  la  tortonia  or  plain  boiled  potatoes.  Another  way  is  to 
roast  the  rabbits  till  light  brown,  then  add  gradually  1  pint  sour 
cream  and  finish  the  same  as  above.  If  larding  is  too  much  trou- 
ble, season  the  rabbits,  lay  them  in  a  roasting  pan,  with  a  few  thin 
slices  of  larding  pork  on  tojo,  pour  over  a  little  melted  butter,  roast 
and  finish  the  same  as  above. 

Hasenpfeffer  of  RabMts. ‚Äî Remove  the  entire  skin  from  2 
fine  rabbits,  draw,  wash,  and  wipe  them  dry ;  carefully  remove  the 
gall  from  the  liver ;  cat  each  rabbit  into  8  pieces ;  season  them  with 
1  tablespoonful  salt;  place  them  in  a  covered  ^ish,  add  2  sliced 
onions,  6  cloves,  2  bay  leaves,  Y2  tablespoonful  whole  peppers,  and  10 
whole  allspice,  cover  with  vinegar,  and  set  it  for  3  days  in  a  cool 
place.  Then  place  the  rabbits  with  the  vinegar,  spice,  and  onions  in 
a  saucepan  over  the  fire,  add  Yg  pint  of  water,  cook  ^slowly  until 
done ;  then  carefully  remove  the  rabbit  pieces,  lay  them  on  a  warm 
dish.  Melt  2  ounces  butter  in  a  saucepan,  add  1  heaping  table- 
spoonful flour,  cook  and  stir  3  minutes ;  strain  the  rabbit  broth,  add 
it  to  the  butter  and  flour,  cook  5  minutes,  and  pour  it  over  the  rabbits. 
At  the  same  time  peel  and  wash  1  quart  small  potatoes,  place  them  in 
a  saucepan,  cover  with  1  quart  cold  water,  add  1  tablespoonful  salt. 


GAME.  453 

boil  until  half  done,  then  drain  off  all  the  water.  Place  a  deep  fry- 
ing pan  with  2  ounces  of  butter  over  the  fire ;  when  hot  put  in  as 
many  of  the  potatoes  as  will  conveniently  go  into  the  pan  without 
crowding ;  fry  to  a  fine  golden  color,  remove  to  a  hot  dish,  fry  the 
remainder  the  same  way.  Serve  them  with  the  rabbits ;  send  some 
hot  rolls  or  biscuits  to  table  with  them.  Farina  or  potato  balls  may 
be  served  with  it. 


SANDWICHES  AND   CANAPl^JS. 

Sandwiches. ‚Äî Stir  the  yolks  of  4  hard-boiled  eggs  fine,  add  by 
degrees  4  ounces  of  butter ;  when  this  is  well  mixed  add  1  raw  yolk, 
then  slowly  2  tablespoonfuls  tarragon  vinegar ;  next  12  anchovies 
previously  soaked  in  cold  water,  freed  from  skin  and  bones,  and 
mashed  fine  ;  also  1  or  2  teaspoonfuls  English  mustard,  1  teaspoon- 
ful  salt,  Y2  teaspoonful  pepper,  2  tablespoonfuls  fine-chopped  capers, 
1  tablespoonful  fine-chopped  shallot,  and  the  fine-chopped  whites  of 
the  boiled  eggs ;  mix  this  with  2  pounds  fine-chopped  or  ground 
boiled  ham.  Cut  a  long  loaf  of  bread  into  thin  slices,  spread  1  table- 
spoonful  of  the  preparation  over  a  slice  of  bread,  and  cover  with 
another  slice ;  then  cut  the  sandwich  even  all  around  and  halve  it 
diagonally,  or  cut  it  diamond  shape ;  lay  the  sandwiches  over  one 
another,  and  prepare  the  remainder  in  the  same  way.  This  will  make 
about  3  dozen  sandwiches.  Another  way  is  to  take  half  cooked  chick- 
en, veal,  or  turkey  meat  and  half  ham  or  tongue,  and  finish  as  above. 

Sauce  for  Canapes. ‚Äî Put  the  yolks  of  3  hard-boiled  eggs  in  a 
bowl,  rub  them  fine,  add  IY2  ounce  butter,  stir  until  formed  into  a 
thick  creamy  substance  ;  then  add  3  anchovies  previously  soaked  in 
cold  water,  freed  from  skin  and  bones,  and  mashed  fine  ;  next  add 
1  tablespoonful  fine-chopped  capers.  Dip  some  fresh  parsley  into 
boiling  water,  instantly  remove  and  chop  it  fine ;  add  Y2  table- 
spoonful to  the  above  preparation,  also  1  tablespoonful  English 
mixed  mustard  and  1  tablespoonful  tarragon  vinegar ;  mix  well 
together  and  use  as  directed  in  following  recipes : 

Canapes  of  Sardines. ‚Äî Cut  12  slices  V4  inch  in  thickness  from 
a  long-shaped  loaf  of  baker's  bread,  take  off  the  rind,  and  shape  the 

454 


SANDWICHES  AND  CANAPfeS.  455 

slices  either  round  or  oval,  toast  them  to  a  delicate  brown  ;  spread 
each  piece  of  toast  with  the  sauce  in  foregoing  recipe  and  lay  1  sar- 
dine in  center  of  each  piece.  Chop  fine  1  beet  (previously  boiled 
and  laid  in  vinegar),  the  whites  and  yolks  of  2  hard-boiled  eggs,  and 
2  branches  of  parsley ;  arrange  these  in  small  clusters  around  the 
sardines.  Place  the  canapes  on  an  oval-shaped  fine  dish  and 
decorate  with  parsley. 

Canapes  d*AncliOvies. ‚Äî Lay  Yg  pound  of  the  best  anchovies 
for  several  hours  in  cold  water,  remove  all  the  bones  and  skin,  cut 
each  fillet  into  2  long  strips,  and  put  them  on  a  plate.  Dip  1  sprig 
of  parsley  into  boiling  water,  instantly  remove,  chop  fine,  and  put 
it  in  a  bowl ;  add  3  tablespoonfuls  herb  vinegar  (or  white  vinegar) 
and  3  tablespoonfuls  olive  oil,  mix  well  together,  and  pour  over  the 
anchovies.  Take  12  slices  of  bread  y^  inch  in  thickness,  cut  into 
oval  shapes  2^(2  inches  wide  and  4  inches  long,  toast  to  a  delicate 
brown  ;  cover  one  side  of  each  piece  of  toast  with  the  canape  sauce, 
spreading  it  smooth  with  a  knife.  Arrange  the  anchovies  like 
latticework  over  each  piece,  place  them  on  an  oval-shaped  dish,  and 
decorate  with  water  cress  or  parsley. 

Canapes  aux  l^creyisses. ‚Äî Extract  the  meat  from  the  claws 
of  12  boiled  hard-shell  crabs,  cut  each  claw  lengthwise  into  2  pieces, 
wipe  the  shells  off  with  a  clean  towel,  and  place  them  for  a  few 
minutes  in  the  oven  to  dry  ;  put  into  a  mortar,  add  4  tablespoonfuls 
olive  oil,  and  pound  fine  ;  then  place  in  a  saucepan  over  a  slow  fire, 
stir  10  minutes ;  then  inclose  them  in  a  coarse  towel  and  press  out 
the  oil ;  mix  the  oil  with  2  tablespoonfuls  of  herb  vinegar  and 
sprinkle  it  over  the  crab  meat.  Prepare  6  oval-shaped  pieces  of 
toast  the  same  as  in  foregoing  recipe,  cover  them  with  the  canape 
sauce,  arrange  the  crab  claws  symmetrically  over  each  piece  of  toast ; 
put  3  fillets  of  anchovies  around  the  edge  of  each  canape  and  small 
clusters  of  capers  or  fine-  chopped  gherkin  pickles  ;  place  them  on  a 
handsome  dish  and  garnish  with  white  and  pink  shaved  horseradish 
or  water  cresses. 


456  SANDWICHES  AND  CANAPfiS. 

Canapes  of  Lobster. ‚Äî Extract  the  meat  from  the  claws  of  1 
boiled  lobster,  cut  the  meat  into  slices,  lay  for  1  hour  in  a  dish, 
pour  over  4  tablespoonfuls  olive  oil  mixed  with  2  tablespoonfuls 
herb  vinegar.  In  the  meantime  prepare  a  mayonnaise  :  Mix  the 
yolks  of  2  eggs  with  Yg  teaspoonful  dry  mustard,  1  even  teaspoonful 
salt;  add  drop  by  drop  ^4  cupful  olive  oil;  when  well  mixed  add 
slowly  1  teaspoonful  lemon  juice  and  the  same  of  white  vinegar ; 
add  last  2  tablespoonfuls  whipped  cream.  Prepare  6  pieces  of  toast 
the  same  as  for  canapes  of  sardines,  put  a  tablespoonful  of  the 
above  mayonnaise  on  each  piece,  smooth  it  with  a  knife ;  then 
arrange  the  lobster  meat  like  scales  over  each  piece,  one  overlapping 
the  other  half  way  ;  decorate  the  edges  of  toast  with  the  white  part 
of  lettuce  cut  in  shreds,  then  lay  alternately  small  clusters  of  fine- 
chopped  whites  and  yolks  of  2  hard-boiled  eggs,  and  serve  on  a  fine 
dish. 

Canapes  of  Herrings. ‚Äî Cut  head  and  tail  from  2  marinierte 
herrings,  remove  the  skin  and  bones  ;  cut  the  meat  into  fine  slices  ; 
mix  2  tablespoonfuls  olive  oil  with  2  tablespoonfuls  white  vinegar, 
add  to  the  meat,  and  let  stand  30  minutes  ;  press  the  milt  of  the  her- 
rings through  a  sieve,  mix  them  with  1  fine-chopped  sour  apple ; 
toast  6  oval-shaped  slices  of  bread,  spread  with  butter  on  both  sides 
while  hot ;  when  cold  cover  one  side  of  each  piece  with  the  mixture 
of  apples  and  milt,  over  this  arrange  the  herrings  ;  then  serve. 

Canapes  Lorenzo  a  la  Filippini. ‚Äî Drop  6  live  hard  shell 
crabs  into  boiling  water,  add  1  tablespoonful  salt,  boil  15  minutes ; 
then  remove  ;  when  cold  enough  to  handle  take  off  the  upper  shell, 
extract  all  the  meat ;  crack  the  claws  and  pick  out  the  meat ;  sea- 
son with  1  even  teaspoonful  salt  and  a  little  Cayenne  pepper ;  then 
measure ‚Äî there  should  be  a  good  pint  of  crab  meat.  Place  a  small 
saucepan  with  1  tablespoonful  butter  over  the  fire ;  add  2  table- 
spoonfuls fine-chopped  white  onions,  cook  5  minutes  without  brown- 
ing ;  add  1  heaping  tablespoonful  flour,  stir  and  cook  2  minutes ; 
add  Yg  cupful  white  broth,  stir  for  a  few  minutes  longer  ;  then  add 


SANDWICHES  AND   CANAPES.  457 

1  pint  of  crab  meat,  stir  and  cook  8  minutes.  Cut  6  slices  from  a 
long-shaped  loaf  of  baker's  bread,  cut  off  the  crust,  and  fry  light 
brown  in  butter  on  both  sides.  Spread  the  crab  mixture  in  equal 
portions  over  the  bread,  and  set  aside.  In  the  meantime  melt  1 
tablespoonful  butter,  add  1  tablespoonful  flour,  cook  and  stir  a  few 
minutes ;  remove  from  the  fire,  add  4  tablespoonfuls  grated  Par- 
mesan cheese  and  the  same  of  grated  Swiss  cheese  ;  mix  the  ingre- 
dients well  and  form  into  round  balls  of  equal  size.  Place  them 
in  center  of  the  canapes,  pressing  a  little  in  the  center.  Put  the 
canapes  into  a  baking  pan  and  bake  light  brown  in  a  hot  oven, 
which  will  take  about  10  minutes ;  then  remove ;  arrange  them  on 
a  hot  dish,  and  serve  at  once.  If  Swiss  and  Parmesan  cheese  are 
not  handy  take  either  the  American  or  English  cheese.  Canapes 
of  lobster  are  prepared  in  the  same  way. 


VEGETABLES. 

POTATOES. 

Potatoes,  Plain  Boiled. ‚Äî Peel  and  wash  1  quart  potatoes, 
put  them  in  a  saucepan,  add  1  quart  cold  water  and  1  tablespoon- 
ful  salt.  Place  the  saucepan  over  the  fire,  cover  and  boil  till  done 
(which  may  be  known  by  trying  them  with  a  fork ‚Äî if  the  fork  pene- 
trates easily  they  are  done ;  if  not,  boil  again)  ;  then  drain  off  all 
the  water,  return  saucepan  with  potatoes  to  fire,  and  let  stand  1 
minute ;  then  shake  the  potatoes  for  a  minute  in  the  saucepan, 
take  off  the  cover  for  1  minute,  cover  again,  and  again  shake  them 
up ;  repeat  this  2  or  3  times  until  the  potatoes  are  mealy ;  then 
serve. 

Potatoes  boiled  with  the  Skin.‚Äî Wash  1  quart  medium- 
sized  potatoes,  place  in  a  saucepan,  cover  with  cold  water,  set  the 
saucepan  over  fire,  and  boil  till  done  ;  then  drain  off  the  water, 
return  saucepan  with  the  potatoes  for  a  few  minutes  to  the  fire 
to  dry  ;  then  serve. 

Potato  Frite  a  TAllemande.‚Äî Boil  1  quart  well- washed 
small  German  potatoes  in  water  till  nearly  done;  then  drain, 
remove  skin,  and  when  cold  put  potatoes  in  hot  fat  and  fry  light 
brown ;  remove  with  a  skimmer,  lay  for  a  few  minutes  on  paper, 
sprinkle  over  some  salt,  and  serve  on  a  hot  dish.  Or  use  for 
garnishing. 

Potato  Saute  a  I'Allemande. ‚Äî Peel  1  quart  small  German 
potatoes,  wash  and  dry  on  a  towel.  Place  a  deep  frying  pan  with  2 
ounces  butter  over  the  fire  ;  as  soon  as  hot  put  in  the  potatoes,  sea- 

458 


VEGETABLES.  459 

son  with  Ys  even  tablespoonful  salt,  toss  frequently  and  fry  till 
done ;  then  remove  to  a  hot  dish,  and  serve. 

Potatoes,  Baked. ‚Äî Wash  the  desired  quantity  of  large  and 
even-sized  potatoes  in  cold  water,  place  in  a  hot  oven,  and  bake  till 
done,  which  will  be  known  by  pressing  them  a  little  between  the 
thumb  and  first  finger ;  then  remove,  and  serve  in  a  hot  covered 
dish  or  in  a  napkin. 

Potatoes,  Mashed. ‚Äî Place  1  quart  of  peeled  and  well-washed 
potatoes  in  a  saucepan  over  the  fire,  cover  with  1  quart  cold  water, 
add  1  tablespoonful  salt,  and  boil  till  tender  ;  then  drain  and  mash 
fine  with  a  potato  masher.  In  the  meantime  put  Yg  cupful  milk 
with  1  tablespoonful  butter  in  a  small  saucepan  over  the  fire ; 
when  hot  add  it  to  the  potatoes,  mix  well  and  beat  the  potatoes  with 
a  wooden  spoon  for  a  few  minutes,  then  serve. 

Potato  Puree. ‚Äî Boil  1  quart  peeled  and  washed  potatoes  with 
1  quart  of  water  and  1  tablespoonful  salt ;  when  done,  drain  off  the 
water,  and  press  the  potatoes  through  a  sieve  ;  return  to  saucepan, 
add  Ys  pi^t  of  l^ot  cream  or  milk  and  1  ounce  butter,  mix  all  well, 
and  serve.  One  tablespoonful  fine-chopped  parsley  may  be  mixed 
with  the  potatoes  if  desired. 

Potato  Souffle. ‚Äî Boil  1  quart  peeled  and  washed  potatoes  with 
1  tablespoonful  salt  and  1  quart  of  water.  "When  done,  drain  off  the 
water,  mash  the  potatoes  fine,  and  mix  them  with  1  cupful  milk,  1 
ounce  butter,  and  the  yolks  of  2  eggs ;  add  the  whites  beaten  to  a 
stiff  froth  ;  put  the  potatoes  in  a  dish ;  make  6  dents  with  a  knife 
on  top  of  potatoes,  put  in  each  dent  a  small  piece  of  butter,  set  the 
dish  in  a  hot  oven,  and  bake  light  brown ;  then  serve  in  the  same 
dish. 

Potatoes  a  Pltalienne. ‚Äî Boil  1  quart  of  peeled  and  well- 
washed  potatoes  with  1  tablespoonful  salt  and  1  quart  water  till 
done ;  then  drain  off  the  water  and  press  the  potatoes  through  a 
potato  press ;  mix  them  with  Ys  cupful  cream,  the  yolks  of  3  eggs, 


460  VEGETABLES. 

Yi  teaspoonful  white  pepper,  Ygeven  teaspoonful  salt,  1  ounce  butter, 
and  the  whites  beaten  to  a  stiff  froth ;  put  the  preparation  in  a  but- 
tered souffle  dish,  cover  the  top  with  4  tablespoonf uls  grated  cheese, 
sprinkle  over  Yg  ounce  melted  butter,  and  bake  to  a  fine  golden 
color  in  a  hot  oven ;  set  the  dish  in  a  silver  dish,  and  serve. 

Potato  Croquettes. ‚Äî Peel,  wash,  and  place  6  medium-sized 
potatoes  in  a  saucepan  over  the  fire,  cover  with  cold  water,  add  Yg 
tablespoonf ul  salt,  and  cook  till  tender ;  then  drain  and  mash,  or 
press  through  a  potato  press  ;  mix  with  1  ounce  butter  the  yolks  of 
2  eggs  ;  season  with  Y4  teaspoonful  white  pepper,  Y2  even  teaspoon- 
ful salt,  and  the  same  of  nutmeg.  Form  the  preparation  into  cork- 
shaped  croquettes  or  into  round  balls  the  size  of  a  small  egg ;  dip 
in  beaten  egg  and  roll  in  fresh  grated  bread  crumbs.  Place  a  frying 
pan  with  2  tablespoonfuls  drippings  or  lard  over  the  fire  ;  when  hot 
put  in  as  many  croquettes  as  will  conveniently  go  in  the  pan,  fry 
light  brown  on  all  sides  ;  then  remove,  let  lay  for  a  few  minutes  on 
blotting  or  brown  paper.  When  the  croquettes  are  all  fried  in  this 
way,  serve  on  a  hot  dish. 

Potatoes  a  la  Patricia. ‚Äî Prepare  6  potatoes  the  same  as  in 
foregoing  recipe ;  lay  2  butter  pats  2  minutes  in  boiling  water  ;  re- 
move and  instantly  dip  into  cold  water ;  take  small  portions  of  the 
potatoes  and  roll  them  into  round  balls  the  size  of  a  walnut  between 
the  butter  pats,  the  same  as  butter  balls  are  made;  dip  in  beaten 
egg,  roll  in  fresh  bread  crumbs,  and  fry  to  a  fine  golden  color  in  hot 
fat.     These  are  mostly  used  for  garnishing. 

Potato  Balls  a  rAllemande. ‚Äî Prepare  6  large  potatoes  the 
same  as  for  potato  croquettes  ;  mix  with  1  tablespoonful  flour  and  a 
little  fine-chopped  parsley,  form  the  preparation  into  small  balls  the 
size  of  a  hickory  nut ;  dip  in  beaten  egg,  roll  in  fresh  grated  bread 
crumbs,  and  fry  to  a  fine  golden  color  in  hot  fat,  the  same  as  crullers. 

Potatoes  a  la  Teiltonia. ‚Äî Peel,  wash,  and  boil  8  medium- 
sized  potatoes  in  1  quart  water  and  1  tablespoonful  salt.  When  done 
drain  and  press  through  a  sieve  or  a  potato  press ;  mix  with  1  table- 


VEGETABLES.  461 

spoonful  butter  the  yolks  of  2  eggs,  season  with  Y4  teaspoonful 
white  pepper,  the  same  of  nutmeg  and  salt.  Form  the  prepara- 
tion first  into  balls,  then  into  pyramids,  brush  them  over  with 
bpflien  egg,  set  on  a  buttered  tin,  and  bake  to  a  fine  golden  color 
in  a  hot  oven ;  then  serve,  and  stick  on  top  of  each  a  small  sprig 
of  parsley. 

Potatoes  a  la  Duchesse. ‚Äî Place  8  well- washed  large  potatoes 
in  a  hot  oven  and  bake  till  done ;  then  remove  the  skin  and  mash 
fine ;  mix  with  1  ounce  butter,  1  even  tablespoonful  salt,  Y4  tea- 
spoonful  pepper,  and  the  yolks  of  2  eggs.  Place  the  potatoes  on  a 
molding  board,  roll  them  out,  Y4  inch  thick,  and  cut  into  2-inch- 
square  pieces  ;  cut  each  square  diagonally  in  half  ;  lay  in  a  buttered 
pan,  brush  over  with  beaten  eggs,  and  bake  to  a  fine  golden  color  in 
a  hot  oven ;  use  for  garnishing,  the  same  as  bread  croutons. 

Potato  Cakes  a  la  Limerick. ‚Äî Boil  1  quart  of  potatoes  with 
1  quart  of  water  and  1  tablespoonful  salt ;  when  done,  drain  and 
mash  ;  mix  with  1  tablespoonful  flour.  Form  into  round  flat  cakes, 
make  3  rills  on  top  of  each  with  the  back  of  a  knife.  Place  a  fry- 
ing pan  with  4  ounces  fine-cut  larding  pork  over  the  fire,  fry  light 
brown ;  lay  in  as  many  potato  cakes  as  will  conveniently  go  into 
the  pan  without  crowding;  fry  light  brown  on  both  sides;  when 
all  are  fried,  serve  with  fried  or  broiled  chops,  steak,  or  fish. 

Raw  Potatoes  fried  with  Pork. ‚Äî Peel,  wash,  and  cut  into 
thin  slices  8  medium-sized  potatoes.  Place  a  frying  pan  with  4 
ounces  fine-cut  larding  pork  over  the  fire,  fry  light  brown ;  then 
add  the  potatoes,  season  with  1  even  tablespoonful  seasoning  salt, 
fry  slowly,  and  stir  often  till  done,  without  covering.  In  place  of 
pork  fat,  drippings,  lard,  or  butter  may  be  taken. 

Lyonnaise  Potatoes. ‚Äî Cut  6  medium-sized  peeled  potatoes  into 
thin  slices  and  lay  in  cold  water.  Peel  and  cut  2  good-sized  white 
onions  into  thin  slices;  15  minutes  before  serving,  drain  and  dry 
the  potatoes  on  a  towel.  Place  a  large  frying  pan  with  1  table- 
spoonful beef  fat  or  lard  over  the  fire ;  as  soon  as  hot,  put  in  the 


462  VEGETABLES, 

potatoes,  cook  5  minutes ;  add  the  onions,  season  with  Yg  even  table- 
spoonful  salt  and  Yg  even  teaspoonful  pepper,  stirring  occasionally  ; 
fry  slowly  until  done ;  then  pour  off  the  fat,  turn  the  potatoes  on 
to  a  hot  dish,  in  the  shape  of  an  omelet,  sprinkle  over  1  table- 
spoonful  fine-chopped  parsley,  and  serve. 

French  Fried  Potatoes. ‚Äî Peel  8  medium-sized  potatoes,  cut 
each  lengthwise  into  6  pieces,  and  place  for  30  minutes,  or  longer, 
in  cold  water ;  20  minutes  before  serving  put  a  kettle  with  1% 
pound  of  lard  or  fat  over  the  fire  ;  drain  and  dry  the  potatoes  on  a 
towel ;  as  soon  as  the  fat  is  hot,  put  in  some  of  the  potatoes,  not  too 
many  at  one  time ;  fry  till  light  brown  ;  then  remove,  and  lay  for  a 
few  minutes  on  blotting  paper.  When  all  are  done,  sprinkle  over 
Ya  teaspoonful  salt,  and  serve  on  a  hot  dish,  or  use  for  garnishing. 

Potato  Chateau. ‚Äî Peel,  wash,  and  cut  8  medium-sized  potatoes 
into  quarters,  round  the  edges,  and  place  in  cold  water ;  20  minutes 
before  serving,  drain  and  dry  the  potatoes  on  a  towel.  Place  a  ket- 
tle or  a  deep  frying  pan  with  lard  or  fat  over  the  fire ;  when  hot  put 
in  some  of  the  potatoes,  not  too  many  at  a  time ;  fry  till  light 
brown  and  done ;  then  remove  with  a  skimmer,  lay  for  a  few  min- 
utes on  blotting  paper  or  brown  paper.  When  all  are  done,  melt 
1  tablespoonful  butter  in  a  frying  pan,  add  1  tablespoonful  fine- 
chopped  parsley,  put  in  the  potatoes,  sprinkle  over  Ys  teaspoonful 
salt,  toss  for  a  few  minutes  over  the  fire,  then  serve  in  a  hot  dish,  or 
use  as  a  garnish. 

Saratoga  Chips. ‚Äî Cut  6  medium-sized  peeled  potatoes  into 
thin  slices,  lay  in  cold  water.  Place  a  frying  kettle  with  lard  or 
fat  over  the  fire.  Drain  and  dry  the  potatoes  on  a  towel.  As  soon 
as  the  fat  is  hot  put  in  some  of  the  potatoes,  not  too  many  at  a 
time,  and  fry  light  brown ;  then  remove  with  a  skimmer,  lay  the 
chips  for  a  few  minutes  on  blotting  paper ;  sprinkle  over  1  even 
teaspoonful  salt,  and  serve  on  a  hot  dish. 

Potato  Straws. ‚Äî Cut  6  large  peeled  potatoes  into  slices,  lay 
several  slices  over  one  another,  and  cut  them  into  strips,  like  straws ; 


VEGETABLES.  463 

place  them  for  30  minutes  in  cold  water ;  then  drain  and  dry  them 
on  a  towel.  Have  a  frying  kettle  with  hot  fat  over  the  fire,  put  in 
some  of  the  straws,  not  too  many  at  a  time,  fry  light  brown ;  re- 
move with  a  skimmer ;  lay  the  potatoes  for  a  few  minutes  on  paper ; 
arrange  on  a  hot  dish,  sprinkle  over  1  even  teaspoonful  salt,  and 
serve ;  or  use  for  garnished  steak  or  chops. 

Potatoes,  stuffed. ‚Äî Peel  6  large  potatoes,  cut  them  length- 
wise in  half,  scoop  out  the  center,  and  fill  them  with  veal  or  sausage 
forcemeat ;  place  the  potatoes  side  by  side  in  a  buttered  pan,  with 
the  stuffed  side  up,  and  bake  till  light  brown  and  done.  Serve  on 
a  hot  dish. 

Potatoes  a  la  Florenzo. ‚Äî Peel  6  large  potatoes,  wash  and  cut 
them  into  thin  slices,  lay  several  slices  over  one  another,  and  cut 
them  into  fine  strips,  like  straws.  Butter  6  small  molds  and  sprinkle 
them  with  bread  crumbs.  Season  the  potatoes  with  1  teaspoonful 
salt  and  Y4  teaspoonful  white  pepper ;  fill  the  molds  half  full  with 
potatoes,  sprinkle  over  each  one  Yg  tablespoonful  grated  cheese; 
then  fill  with  potatoes,  cover  with  grated  cheese,  and  pour  1  tea- 
spoonful melted  butter  over  each  one ;  set  the  molds  in  a  medium- 
hot  oven,  and  bake  till  done.  Shortly  before  serving  turn  the  pota- 
toes out  of  molds,  and  serve  on  a  hot  dish  or  as  a  garnish. 

Potato  Balls. ‚Äî Peel  6  large  potatoes,  cut  into  round  balls  with 
a  vegetable  cutter,  place  in  a  saucepan,  cover  with  cold  water,  add 
Y2  tablespoonful  salt,  and  boil  5  minutes ;  then  drain  off  the  water, 
melt  1  ounce  butter  in  a  saucepan,  add  the  potatoes,  and  cook  till 
done,  tossing  occasionally  ;  sprinkle  over  1  teaspoonful  fine-chopped 
parsley,  and  serve  on  a  hot  dish  or  for  garnishing. 

Potato  a  la  Parisienne. ‚Äî Cut  6  large  peeled  potatoes  into 
balls  with  a  vegetable  cutter,  place  them  in  a  buttered  pan,  pour 
over  2  ounces  melted  butter,  and  season  with  Ys  teaspoonful  salt ; 
bake  in  a  medium-hot  oven  till  done  ;  they  should  be  of  a  handsome 
golden  color.  If  they  brown  too  much,  cover  with  buttered  paper ; 
use  for  garnishing. 


464  VEGETABLES. 

Potatoes  a  la  Minden. ‚Äî Peel,  wash,  and  cut  into  slices  8 
medium-sized  potatoes  ;  peel  and  chop  fine  2  medium-sized  onions  ; 
place  half  the  potato  slices  in  a  round  buttered  pan,  sprinkle  over 
half  the  chopped  onions,  season  with  Yg  even  teaspoonful  salt,  Y4 
even  teaspoonful  pepper,  and  Yg  tablespoonf ul  butter  in  small  pieces, 
putting  in  the  remaining  potatoes  and  onions,  season  with  the  same 
amount  of  salt  and  pepper ;  put  Ys  tablespoonful  butter  in  small 
pieces  over  the  top,  cover  the  pan  tightly,  and  place  in  a  medium-hot 
oven ;  bake  until  done ‚Äî about  20  minutes ‚Äî then  serve  on  a  hot  dish. 

Potatoes  a  la  Bismarck. ‚Äî Bake  6  large  well- washed  potatoes 
in  a  hot  oven  till  done ;  take  out,  cut  the  potatoes  in  half,  remove 
the  pulp,  and  mix  with  1  teaspoonful  salt,  Y4  teaspoonful  nutmeg,  1 
ounce  butter,  and  Y2  giU  of  cream.  Then  place  1  gill  of  milk  with 
Ys  ounce  butter  over  the  fire ;  as  soon  as  it  boils  add  2  tablespoonf  uls 
of  flour ;  stir  over  the  fire  till  it  forms  into  a  paste,  then  remove ; 
add  this  paste  with  the  yolks  of  2  eggs  to  the  potatoes ;  add  lastly 
the  2  whites  beaten  to  a  stiff  froth ;  form  this  mixture  into  balls 
like  an  egg,  sprinkle  over  some  fresh  grated  bread  crumbs,  lay  in  a 
buttered  pan,  and  bake  to  a  fine  golden  color  in  a  hot  oven. 

Potato  Shaying. ‚Äî Peel  and  wash  6  large  potatoes ;  place  in  a 
machine  (sold  for  that  purpose),  cut  them  into  spirals,  and  put  into 
water.  Thirty  minutes  before  serving  take  them  from  the  water, 
drain,  and  dry  in  a  towel,  plunge  into  hot  lard,  and  fry  to  a  fine 
golden  color;  remove  with  a  skimmer,  lay  for  a  few  minutes  on 
blotting  paper,  besprinkle  with  salt,  and  serve  on  a  hot  dish,  or  use 
as  a  garnish  around  broiled  or  fried  meat  or  fish. 

Potatoes  a  la  Sarah  Bernhardt.‚Äî Cut  with  a  spiral  machine 
10  large  raw  potatoes  into  corkscrew  shapes ;  put  them  into  cold 
water,  drain  and  dry  on  a  towel,  plunge  into  hot  lard,  and  fry  to  a 
fine  golden  color ;  remove  and  drain  them  on  blotting  paper, 
sprinkle  over  a  little  salt,  and  serve  on  a  hot  dish. 

Potatoes  a  la  Princesse. ‚Äî Peel  and  wash  6  large  potatoes ; 
place  them  in  a  saucepan,  cover  with  cold  water,  add  Vs  tablespoon- 


VEGETABLES.  465 

f ul  salt,  and  cook  till  done ;  then  drain  and  rub  them  through  a 
sieve ;  add  2  ounces  butter,  the  yolks  of  2  eggs,  Yg  teaspoonful  nut- 
meg, Y2  Q^&'O-  teaspoonful  salt,  2  ounces  grated  cheese,  mix  well  to- 
gether ;  form  the  mixture  into  small  walnut-shaped  balls,  dip  in 
beaten  egg,  roll  in  fresh  grated  bread  crumbs,  and  lay  into  a  but- 
tered pan ;  bake  in  a  hot  oven  to  a  fine  golden  color.  Serve  on  a 
hot  dish,  or  arrange  them  in  clusters  around  roasted  meat. 

Potatoes,  Sauted. ‚Äî Peel  and  cut  6  medium-sized  potatoes 
into  quarters  like  cloves  of  garlic,  and  drop  into  cold  water ;  20 
minutes  before  serving  drain  the  potatoes  and  wipe  dry  with  a  clean 
towel.  Place  a  deep  frying  pan  with  drippings  or  lard  over  the  fire, 
sufiicient  to  cover  the  potatoes ;  when  boiling  hot,  put  in  as  many 
potatoes  as  will  conveniently  go  into  the  pan,  fry  until  done ;  then 
remove  and  fry  the  remainder  the  same  way.  Lay  the  potatoes 
for  a  few  minutes  on  blotting  paper  to  absorb  the  grease,  then 
place  them  with  Y2  ounce  butter  in  a  frying  pan  over  the  fire, 
and  toss  for  a  few  minutes ;  sprinkle  over  Y2  teaspoonful  salt,  and 
serve. 

Potatoes  a  I'Anglaise. ‚Äî Boil  6  large  potatoes  with  the  skin 
till  done  ;  drain  and  free  them  from  the  skin  ;  sprinkle  over  1  even 
teaspoonful  salt ;  lay  them  in  a  pan,  pour  over  each  potato  a  little 
melted  butter,  and  bake  in  a  hot  oven  to  a  fine  golden  color ;  serve 
on  a  hot  dish. 

Potatoes  a  la  Wurthfleth. ‚Äî Boil  and  peel  8  medium-sized 
potatoes  in  1  quart  water  with  1  tablespoonful  salt  until  done ; 
drain  and  press  the  potatoes  through  a  potato  press  or  a  sieve.  Melt 
2  ounces  butter  in  a  saucepan,  add  2  tablespoonfuls  fine-chopped 
onion,  cook  5  minutes  without  browning  ;  add  1  gill  of  fine-chopped 
boiled  ham,  stir  a  few  minutes ;  then  remove ;  mix  the  potatoes  with 
Y2  even  teaspoonful  salt  and  the  same  of  white  pepper ;  also  with  the 
yolks  of  3  eggs  ;  set  Yg  pint  of  these  potatoes  aside ;  add  to  the  re- 
mainder the  onion  and  ham,  also  Y2  gill  of  boiling  water  with  a  little 
beef  extract  and  1  teaspoonful  chopped  parsley.     Put  the  prepara- 


466  VEGETABLES. 

tion  into  a  buttered  souflfle  dish  ;  add  to  the  remaining  Yg  pint  of 
potatoes  the  beaten  whites  of  3  eggs  and  1  gill  of  cream ;  spread 
it  over  the  potatoes  in  pan,  sprinkle  over  2  tablespoonfuls  fresh 
grated  bread  crumbs ;  drop  over  Yg  ounce  melted  butter,  and  bake 
to  a  fine  golden  color  in  a  hot  oven. 

Potatoes  a  la  Tabatiere. ‚Äî Prepare  the  potatoes  as  for  cro- 
quettes and  form  them  into  round  egg-sized  balls.  Melt  1  ounce 
butter,  add  1  fine-chopped  onion,  Ys  bay  leaf,  6  coarsely  pounded 
peppers,  cook  5  minutes  without  browning;  add  Y2  tablespoonful  flour, 
stir  and  cook  2  minutes ;  add  Y2  piiit  white  broth,  Ys  even  teaspoon- 
ful  salt,  cook  5  minutes ;  strain  into  a  small  saucepan  ;  add  2  table- 
spoonfuls  fine-cut  boiled  beef  tongue,  1  gill  of  fine-cut  mushrooms, 

1  gill  of  fine-cut  cooked  chicken  meat,  Y2  tablespoonful  lemon  juice 
mixed  with  the  yolk  of  1  egg ;  stir  a  few  minutes  over  the  fire,  then 
set  aside  to  cool.  Scoop  out  the  centers  from  the  potato  balls,  and 
fill  them  with  the  above  preparation ;  close  the  opening,  dip  them 
in  beaten  egg,  and  roll  in  fresh  grated  bread  crumbs;  fry  light 
brown  in  hot  fat ;  remove,  lay  them  a  few  minutes  on  paper,  and 
serve  in  a  folded  napkin. 

Petites  Croflstades  de  Pommes  de  Terre.‚Äî Boil  1  quart 
peeled  and  washed  potatoes  with  1  quart  of  water  and  1  table- 
spoonful salt ;  when  done  drain  off  the  water,  let  dry  a  few  minutes 
over  the  fire,  then  rub  them  through  a  colander  or  through  a  potato 
press.  Mix  with  IY2  ounce  butter  the  yolks  of  4  eggs,  Y2  even  tea- 
spoonful  salt,  and  Y2  e^en  teaspoonful  pepper.     Put  the  potatoes 

2  inches  high  into  a  buttered  pan,  set  aside  to  cool ;  30  minutes  be- 
fore serving  heat  the  pan  a  little,  turn  the  potatoes  out,  and  cut 
them  with  a  lY2-inch  cutter  into  round  pieces ;  roll  them  in  bread 
crumbs,  dip  in  beaten  egg,  and  cover  with  fresh  grated  bread  crumbs. 
Make  an  incision  on  top  of  each  one  with  a  smaller  cutter  to  form 
a  cover,  bake  to  a  fine  color  in  deep  hot  fat.  When  done  lift  them 
with  a  skimmer  on  to  blotting  paper,  lift  off  the  cover,  take  out  the 
inside  with  a  spoon,  and  fill  with  a  clam  puree  or  codfish  a  la  cr^me ; 


VEGETABLES.  467 

replace  the  cover,  and  serve.     Any  kind  of  salpicon  may  be  taken, 
or  spaghetti  I'ltalienne. 

Potatoes  a  I'Hanovrienne. ‚Äî Peel,  wash,  and  cut  into  quar- 
ters 8  good-sized  potatoes,  place  them  with  1  quart  of  cold  water, 
and  1  tablespoonful  salt  over  the  fire,  cook  till  done,  then  drain. 
Fry  2  ounces  fine-chopped  larding  pork  light  brown,  add  1  fine- 
chopped  onion,  cook  5  minutes ;  add  Yg  tablespoonful  flour,  stir  and 
cook  2  minutes  ;  add  1  gill  of  vinegar,  1  gill  of  Avhite  broth,  74  tea- 
spoonful  pepper,  the  same  of  salt  and  sugar,  cook  5  minutes,  add 
the  potatoes ;  toss  them  a  few  minutes  over  the  fire,  and  serve. 

Potato  Frite. ‚Äî Peel  6  large  potatoes,  cut  them  into  thick 
slices,  the  slices  into  strips,  wash,  drain,  and  dry  on  a  towel ;  plunge 
into  hot  fat,  fry  light  brown ;  remove  with  a  skimmer ;  lay  them 
for  a  few  minutes  on  blotting  or  brown  paper  ;  sprinkle  over  some 
salt,  and  serve  on  a  hot  dish. 

Potatoes  Messalina. ‚Äî Peel,  wash,  and  cut  into  quarters  6  large 
potatoes,  dry  on  a  towel,  fry  in  hot  fat  till  light  brown,  not  too  many 
at  one  time,  then  remove ;  lay  them  aside  for  a  few  minutes.  Let  the 
fat  get  very  hot  and  plunge  the  potatoes  again  into  it,  and  fry  a  few 
minutes ;  the  potatoes  will  swell  considerably  and  puff  up.  Eemove 
and  lay  them  on  paper,  dust  over  with  salt,  and  serve  on  a  hot  dish. 

Potatoes  a  I'Allemande. ‚Äî Peel  nicely  1  quart  small  German 
potatoes,  wash,  and  place  them  in  a  saucepan  over  the  fire ;  cover 
with  veal  or  chicken  broth,  add  1  teaspoonful  salt,  and  cook  till 
done.  At  the  same  time  melt  1  ounce  butter  in  a  saucepan,  add  1 
tablespoonful  flour,  stir,  and  cook  3  minutes ;  add  1  pint  of  hot 
milk,  a  small  bouquet,  6  whole  peppers,  Y2  teaspoonful  nutmeg,  1 
even  teaspoonful  salt,  cook  5  minutes ;  then  strain.  Drain  the  po- 
tatoes in  a  sieve,  return  them  in  saucepan  to  the  fire,  pour  over  the 
sauce,  toss  them  a  few  minutes  over  the  fire ;  sprinkle  over  1  tea- 
spoonful chopped  parsley,  and  serve. 

Potatoes  a  la  Maitre  d'Hotel. ‚Äî Wash  1  quart  medium-sized 
potatoes,  place  in  a  saucepan  over  the  fire,  cover  with  1  quart  cold 


468  VEGETABLES. 

water,  boil  until  done ;  drain  off  the  water,  remove  the  skin,  and 
cut  the  potatoes  into  slices ;  return  into  saucepan.  Mix  1  ounce 
butter  with  1  even  teaspoonful  salt,  y^  even  teaspoonful  white  pep- 
per, 74  teaspoonful  nutmeg  ;  add  gradually  2  tablespoonfuls  lemon 
juice  and  1  tablespoonful  fine-chopped  parsley ;  add  this  to  the 
potatoes,  toss  them  for  a  few  minutes  over  the  fire ;  add  1  gill  of 
hot  cream,  and  serve.  In  place  of  cream  1  gill  of  white  broth  may 
be  taken. 

Potatoes  a  la  Diana. ‚Äî Wash  6  large  potatoes  and  bake  them 
till  done  ;  then  remove  ;  cut  them  in  half,  remove  the  soft  jDart,  and 
mix  it  with  1  teaspoonful  salt,  3  whole  eggs,  Yg  teaspoonful  nut- 
meg, and  Ys  gill  of  cream.  Place  a  saucepan  with  1  cup  of  milk 
and  2  ounces  butter,  a  little  salt,  and  a  sprinkle  of  sugar  over  the 
fire ;  as  soon  as  it  boils  add  4  ounces  flour,  stir,  and  cook  to  a 
smooth  paste ;  then  remove,  add  it  to  the  potatoes,  mix  all  well 
together ;  form  the  preparation  into  egg-shaped  balls ;  dip  into 
beaten  egg,  roll  in  grated  bread  crumbs,  and  fry  in  hot  lard  to  a 
fine  golden  color ;  remove  them  with  a  skimmer,  drain  on  paper, 
and  serve  on  a  hot  dish. 

Potatoes  Yiennoise. ‚Äî Boil  8  peeled  potatoes  with  1  table- 
spoonful  salt  in  1  quart  of  water ;  when  done  drain  and  press 
through  a  potato  press ;  mix  with  1  even  teaspoonful  salt,  Yg  even 
teaspoonful  pepper,  2  ounces  butter,  the  yolks  of  3  eggs,  Ya  giU  of 
cream,  and  4  ounces  grated  Parmesan  cheese.  Mix  well,  and  form 
the  mixture  into  round  balls  the  size  of  an  egg.  Sprinkle  some 
flour  on  a  pastry  board,  roll  the  potatoes  into  long  shapes,  thick  in 
the  center  and  pointed  at  the  ends ;  brush  them  over  with  beaten 
egg ;  make  two  slanting  incisions  on  top  of  each,  lay  them  in  a 
buttered  pan,  brush  over  again  with  egg,  and  bake  to  a  fine  golden 
color  in  a  hot  oven. 

Potatoes  with  Parsley  Sauce. ‚Äî Peel  and  wash  1  quart  small 
potatoes,  place  with  1  quart  of  cold  water  in  a  saucepan  over  the 
fire,  add  1  tablespoonful  salt,  boil  until  done.     In  the  meantime 


VEGETABLES.  469 

melt  1  tablespoonful  butter  in  a  saucepan,  add  Yg  tablespoonful 
flour,  stir,  and  cook  3  minutes  ;  add  IY2  cupful  hot  milk,  cook  3 
minutes ;  season  with  Yi  teaspoonf ul  salt  and  1  tablespoonful  fine- 
chopped  parsley.  Drain  the  potatoes,  return  them  for  a  few  min- 
utes in  saucepan  to  the  fire,  add  the  sauce,  and  serve  in  a  hot  dish. 

HOW   TO    UTILIZE    COLD    POTATOES. 

Hashed  Potatoes. ‚Äî Chop  fine  some  cold  boiled  potatoes ;  for 
1  pint  of  chopped  potatoes  melt  Ys  tablespoonful  butter  in  a  frying 
pan,  put  in  the  potatoes,  season  with  Ys  even  teaspoonful  salt  and 
Y4  even  teaspoonful  pepper,  cover,  and  fry  over  moderate  fire  5  min- 
utes ;    remove  the  cover,  stir  for  a  few  minutes,  and  serve. 

Potato  Dumplings. ‚Äî One  quart  of  grated  cold  boiled  pota- 
toes measured  after  they  are  grated,  2  eggs,  2  tablespoonf uls  flour, 
Ys  teaspoonful  seasoning  salt ;  mix  the  potatoes,  flour,  and  season- 
ing salt  together,  beat  the  eggs  until  light,  add  to  the  potatoes,  mix 
all  together ;  divide  the  preparation  into  12  parts,  roll  each  part 
into  a  round  ball,  drop  into  boiling  salted  water,  and  boil  15  min- 
utes; remove  them  with  a  skimmer,  roll  the  dumplings  in  fine- 
sifted  bread  crumbs.  Place  a  frying  pan  over  the  fire  with  1  ounce 
butter ;  when  hot  put  in  as  many  dumplings  as  will  conveniently  go 
in  the  pan,  shake  the  pan  until  they  are  a  delicate  brown,  then 
serve.     These  dumplings  may  be  served  without  frying. 

Potato  Dumplings  Tvith  Bread  Croutons. ‚Äî The  same  as  in 
foregoing  recipe,  the  only  difference  being  to  add  in  place  of  fiour  4 
tablespoonfuls  grated  bread  crumbs.  Another  way  is  to  form  the 
above  preparation  into  balls  the  size  of  an  egg,  press  them  flat,  and 
put  in  the  center  4  small  dice-shaped  pieces  of  bread  which  have  pre- 
viously been  fried  in  butter ;  then  form  the  potatoes  into  a  round 
ball  again,  and  flnish  the  same  as  in  foregoing  recipe. 

Potato  Dumplings  with  Farina.‚Äî Peel,  wash,  and  boil  8 
medium-sized  potatoes  with  1  quart  water  and  1  tablespoonful  salt ; 
when  done,  drain  and  mash  the  potatoes,  mix  with  2  eggs,  a  little  salt, 


470  VEGETABLES. 

and  2  tablespoonf uls  dry  farina ;  form  the  preparation  into  balls  the 
size  of  an  egg;  drop  into  boiling  salted  water  and  boil  12  minutes; 
remove  with  a  skimmer,  lay  on  a  hot  dish,  pour  over  Yg  cupful 
grated  bread  crumbs  fried  brown  in  butter,  and  serve. 

This  preparation  may  be  formed  into  small  balls  the  size   of 
a  hickory  nut  and  boiled  in  soup ;  also  fine-chopped  parsley  may  be 


Hashed  Potatoes  with  Onions.‚Äî Chop  fine  some  cold  boiled 
potatoes  ;  for  1  quart  of  chopped  potatoes  melt  1  small  tablespoonful 
butter  in  a  frying  pan,  add  the  potatoes,  season  with  Yg  teaspoonful 
salt,  Y4  teaspoonful  pepper,  cover  and  fry  5  minutes ;  stir  them  well, 
add  1  fine-chopped  onion,  cover  and  cook  3  minutes,  and  serve. 

Fried  Potatoes. ‚Äî Cut  some  cold  boiled  potatoes  into  slices; 
place  a  frying  pan  with  1  tablespoonful  drippings  over  the  fire,  add 

1  quart  of  sliced  potatoes,  season  with  Yg  teaspoonful  seasoning  salt ; 
cover  the  pan  and  fry  over  slow  fire  10  minutes,  stirring  occasion- 
ally ;  then  serve. 

Fried  Potatoes  with  Green  Onions. ‚Äî Prepare  potatoes  the 
same  as  in  foregoing  recipe,  and  2  minutes  before  serving  add  1 
cupful  fine-cut  green  onion,  cover,  cook  2  minutes,  and  serve.  In 
place  of  green  onions,  Ys  cupful  fine-chopped  onion  may  be  added,  or 

2  tablespoonfuls  fine-chopped  chives. 

Potato  Salad. ‚Äî See  my  book  Desserts  and  Salads,  recipe  892. 

SWEET  POTATOES. 

Sweet-potato  Croquettes. ‚Äî Mash  6  peeled  and  boiled  sweet 
potatoes  fine ;  mix  them  with  1  ounce  butter,  2  eggs,  and  season  with 
Y2  teaspoonful  salt,  Y4  teaspoonful  pepper,  mixing  all  together ;  then 
form  the  potatoes  into  cork-shaped  croquettes  or  into  small  round 
balls ;  dip  them  into  beaten  egg,  and  roll  in  fresh  grated  bread 
crumbs  ;  fry  light  brown  in  hot  fat ;  remove,  and  lay  for  a  few  min- 
utes on  blotting  paper ;  then  serve  on  a  hot  dish  with  roasted,  broiled, 
or  fried  meat  or  chicken. 


VEGETABLES.  471 

Sweet  Potatoes,  Boiled. ‚Äî Place  6  well-washed  sweet  potatoes 
in  a  saucepan,  cover  with  boiling  water,  and  cook  till  done ;  then 
drain,  free  the  potatoes  from  their  skin,  and  serve  in  a  hot  dish. 

Sweet  Potatoes,  Boiled  and  Baked.‚Äî Boil  and  peel  6  sweet 
potatoes  the  same  as  in  foregoing  recipe,  lay  them  in  a  shallow  tin 
pan,  pour  little  melted  butter  over  each  potato,  place  the  pan  in  a 
hot  oven,  and  bake  till  they  have  obtained  a  fine  golden  color; 
serve  with  roasted  meat  or  poultry.  Another  way  is  to  cut  the 
boiled  potatoes  lengthwise  into  thick  slices  or  crosswise,  and  fry 
light  brown  in  butter  or  fat. 

Sweet-potato  Balls. ‚Äî Peel  and  cut  into  balls  4  large  sweet 
potatoes  with  a  vegetable  cutter,  place  in  a  saucepan,  cover  with  boil- 
ing water,  boil  5  minutes ;  then  drain  off  the  water,  return  the  pota- 
to balls  in  saucepan  to  the  fire,  add  1  tablespoonful  butter,  cook 
till  done,  stirring  occasionally,  and  use  for  garnishing.  Another 
way  is  to  lay  the  raw  potato  balls  in  a  buttered  pan,  pour  a  little 
melted  butter  over,  bake  in  the  oven  till  done,  and  use  the  same  as 
above. 

TOMATOES. 

Tomatoes,  Stewed. ‚Äî Place  8  medium-sized  tomatoes  in  a 
bowl,  cover  with  boiling  water,  then  remove  the  skins ;  cut  the 
tomatoes  into  quarters,  and  place  in  a  saucepan  over  the  fire  ;  add  1 
teaspoonful  salt,  Y^  teaspoonf ul  white  pepper,  1  tablespoonful  sugar, 
Y2  ounce  butter,  cook  20  minutes,  and  serve.  If  too  thin  add 
1  teaspoonful  cornstarch  dissolved  in  a  little  cold  water,  cook  a  few 
minutes ;  then  serve. 

Tomatoes,  Fried. ‚Äî Wash  and  wipe  4  large  tomatoes,  cut  each 
one  into  3  slices  ;  season  with  1  even  teaspoonful  salt,  Y'g  even  tea- 
spoonful pepper,  dust  over  with  flour ;  dip  each  slice  separately  into 
beaten  egg,  and  cover  with  grated  bread  crumbs.  Place  a  large 
frying  pan  with  1  heaping  tablespoonful  lard  or  drippings  over  the 
fire  ;  when  hot,  put  in  as  many  of  the  tomato  slices  as  conveniently 


472  VEGETABLES. 

will  go  in  the  pan  without  crowding  ;  fry  light  brown  on  both 
sides ;  remove  them  to  a  hot  dish,  and  serve  with  fried  or  baked 
fish,  or  broiled  or  fried  chops  and  steak. 

Tomato,  Sauted. ‚Äî Place  a  deep  frying  pan  over  the  fire  with 

2  ounces  butter ;  have  the  skins  removed  from  6  tomatoes,  cut  in 
halves  and  press  each  half  gently  in  the  hand  to  remove  some  of 
their  moisture.  Lay  the  tomatoes  in  the  melted  butter,  sprinkle 
over  1  even  teaspoonful  seasoning  salt,  cover  and  cook  6  minutes ; 
then  turn  them  over,  cook  5  minutes  longer  without  a  cover.  Serve 
on  a  hot  dish. 

Tomatoes,  Stuffed. ‚Äî Select  6  large  ripe  tomatoes,  cut  a  thin 
slice  from  their  blossom  side,  scoop  out,  and  season  the  inside  with  1 
teaspoonful  seasoning  salt,  equally  distributed.  Melt  1  ounce  butter 
in  a  small  saucepan,  add  2  tablespoonfuls  fine-chopped  onion,  cook 

3  minutes ;  then  add  2  ounces  fine-chopped  fresh  pork  (or  sausage 
meat)  ;  season  with  1  even  teaspoonful  salt,  Yg  even  teaspoonful 
pepper,  stir  and  cook  5  minutes ;  add  the  scooped-out  tomatoes  and 

4  tablespoonfuls  bread  crumbs,  and,  if  handy,  2  tablespoonfuls  fine- 
chopped  mushrooms,  stir  this  for  a  few  minutes  over  the  fire ;  fill 
the  tomatoes  with  this  preparation,  set  in  a  buttered  pan  with  the 
stuffed  side  toward  the  pan  ;  cover  with  buttered  paper,  and  bake 
from  15  to  20  minutes  in  a  hot  oven.  Eemove  from  the  oven  as 
soon  as  done,  and  serve.  (If  sausage  meat  is  used,  take  only  half 
the  seasoning.) 

Tomatoes  stuffed  with  Rice  Forcemeat.‚Äî Cut  the  blossom 
side  from  6  tomatoes,  scoop  them  out,  and  season  each  one  with  a 
little  salt  and  pepper.  Place  3  tablespoonfuls  rice  in  a  saucepan 
over  the  fire,  cover  with  cold  water,  and  cook  10  minutes ;  then 
drain  in  a  sieve  and  rinse  off  with  cold  water.  Melt  1  ounce  butter 
in  a  small  saucepan,  add  1  fine-chopped  onion,  Yg  fine-cut  green 
pepper  without  the  seeds,  cook  6  minutes ;  add  6  fine-cut  mush- 
rooms, 3  tablespoonfuls  of  the  tomato  which  was  scooped  out ;  sea- 
son with  1  even  teaspoonful  salt,  Y4  teaspoonful  pepper,  add  the  rice, 


VEGETABLES.  473 

cook  6  minutes ;  then  fill  the  tomatoes  with  this  preparation,  place 
them  with  the  open  side  downward  in  a  buttered  tin  pan,  pour  a 
little  melted  butter  over  each  one  ;  set  in  a  hot  oven,  and  bake  till 
done ;  if  the  tomatoes  should  get  too  brown,  cover  with  buttered 
paper.  This  quantity  will  fill  6  large  tomatoes  or  10  medium-sized 
ones.  Care  must  be  taken  to  remove  them  as  soon  as  done ;  it  will 
take  from  20  to  25  minutes  to  cook  them. 

Tomatoes  a  la  Traviata. ‚Äî Wash  and  wipe  4  medium-sized 
tomatoes,  cut  them  in  halves.  Place  a  deep  frying  pan  over  the 
fire  with  2  ounces  butter,  add  1  gill  of  fine-chopped  onion,  cook  5 
minutes  without  browning ;  put  in  the  tomatoes ;  sprinkle  over  1 
even  teaspoonful  salt,  Yg  even  teaspoonful  white  pepper,  cover  and 
cook  6  minutes ;  then  turn  the  tomatoes,  cook  without  a  cover  5 
minutes  longer.  Lay  the  tomatoes  carefully  on  a  hot  dish,  pour  the 
sauce  over,  and  serve.     They  may  also  be  used  as  a  garnish. 

Tomatoes,  Baked. ‚Äî Scald  6  tomatoes  in  boiling  water,  remove 
skins,  cut  into  halves,  squeeze  each  half  lightly  in  the  hand  to  press 
out  the  moisture ;  lay  them  in  a  round  tin  pan,  pour  over  1  ounce 
melted  butter,  sprinkle  1  even  teaspoonful  salt  and  Yg  teaspoonful 
pepper  on  them,  and  bake  10  minutes  in  a  hot  oven,  basting  fre- 
quently. Arrange  nicely  on  a  warm  dish,  or  use  as  a  garnish  for 
chicken  saute  or  beefsteak. 

Tomatoes,  Roasted. ‚Äî Put  6  medium-sized  tomatoes  in  a 
bowl,  pour  over  boiling  water,  remove  the  skins,  cut  a  piece  from 
tops,  scoop  out,  season  with  Ys  tablespoonful  seasoning  salt,  equally 
divided ;  put  a  small  piece  of  butter  into  each  one ;  place  in  a 
buttered  pan  ;  pour  a  little  melted  butter  over  each,  put  on  the 
pieces  cut  off,  set  the  pan  in  a  hot  oven,  and  bake  15  minutes  ;  then 
carefully  remove  them  with  a  pancake  turner  to  a  hot  dish,  and 
serve. 

Tomato  Gratines. ‚Äî Scald  and  remove  the  skins  from  6  ripe 
tomatoes,  cut  them  in  halves,  press  out  the  seeds ;  melt  1  ounce 
butter  in  a  saucepan,  put  in  the  tomatoes,  sprinkle  over  1  even  tea- 


474  VEGETABLES. 

spoonful  salt  and  Yg  even  teaspoonful  pepper,  cover  and  cook  5  min- 
utes ;  turn  and  cook  5  minutes  longer.  In  the  meantime  place  a  small 
saucepan  with  1  ounce  butter  over  the  fire,  add  1  gill  fine-chopped 
onion,  cook  3  minutes ;  add  Yg  fine-chopped  green  pepper  without 
the  seeds,  6  fine-chopped  mushrooms,  Ys  giU  fine-chopped  cooked 
ham,  and  1  even  teaspoonful  salt,  cover  and  cook  5  minutes  without 
browning.  Put  the  tomatoes  in  a  buttered  dish  ;  add  the  sauce 
from  the  saucepan,  sprinkle  over  3  tablespoonfuls  grated  cheese 
and  1  tablespoonful  grated  bread,  also  a  little  melted  butter,  and 
bake  till  light  brown,  then  serve  in  the  same  dish.  The  cheese  may 
be  omitted  if  not  liked. 

Canned  Tomatoes,  Stewed. ‚Äî Open  a  can  of  tomatoes,  pour 
them  into  a  saucepan,  add  1  teaspoonful  salt,  Ys  even  teaspoonful 
pepper,  Ys  tablespoonful  butter,  and  1  tablespoonful  sugar,  cook  15 
minutes ;  if  too  thin  mix  1  teaspoonful  cornstarch  with  a  little  cold 
water,  add  it  to  the  tomatoes,  cook  5  minutes ;  then  serve. 

Tomato  Toast. ‚Äî Toast  8  small  slices  of  bread,  butter  them  on 
one  side,  lay  the  toast  on  a  hot  dish  with  the  buttered  side  up. 
Stew  a  can  of  tomatoes  as  in  foregoing  recipe  (omitting  the  corn- 
starch) ;  pour  the  tomatoes  over  the  toast,  and  serve.  Another  way 
is  to  lay  on  each  piece  of  toast  a  thin  slice  of  broiled  or  fried  bacon, 
and  pour  the  tomatoes  over  it. 

Tomato  Salad. ‚Äî See  my  book  Desserts  and  Salads,  recipe  883. 

Stuffed  Green  Peppers. ‚Äî Put  6  fresh  green  peppers  in  hot 
fat  to  remain  2  minutes ;  take  them  from  the  fat,  remove  the  skin, 
cut  a  round  piece  off  the  bottom,  remove  the  inside,  and  fill  with 
the  following  forcemeat :  Place  a  small  saucepan  with  Ys  ounce  but- 
ter over  the  fire,  add  2  tablespoonfuls  fine-chopped  onion,  cook  3 
minutes ;  then  add  4  ounces  sausage  meat  or  fine-chopped  veal,  2 
tablespoonfuls  fine-chopped  mushrooms,  1  fine-chopped  tomato, 
season  with  pepper  and  salt,  stir  and  cook  3  minutes ;  remove  from 
the  fire ;  add  3  tablespoonfuls  fresh-grated  bread  crumbs  and  1  ta- 
blespoonful milk ;  fill  the  peppers  with  this  preparation,  place  in  a 


VEGETABLES.  475 

buttered  pan,  the  stuffed  side  downward ;  cover  with  buttered  paper, 
and  bake  till  done ‚Äî about  20  minutes.  Serve  with  Madeira,  Colbert, 
or  truffle  sauce. 

A9PAEAGUS. 

Asparagus  with  Melted  Butter,‚Äî Peel  and  wash  1  or  2  fine 
fresh  bunches  of  asparagus;  tie  each  bunch  into  3  bundles,  the 
heads  all  one  way,  the  ends  cut  off  evenly.  Place  the  asparagus  in 
a  saucepan,  cover  with  boiling  water,  cook  25  minutes ;  then  add  to 
each  bunch  1  teaspoonf ul  salt ;  draw  the  saucepan  to  side  of  stove, 
let  simmer  5  minutes.  Lift  out  and  drain ;  arrange  them  nicely  on 
a  hot  dish,  pour  over  some  melted  butter,  allowing  2  ounces  for  each 
bunch. 

Asparagus  h,  I'Americaine. ‚Äî Prepare  2  bunches  of  asparagus 
as  in  foregoing  recipe ;  toast  and  butter  6  small  slices  of  bread ; 
place  the  toast  on  a  hot  dish,  pour  1  tablespoonful  asparagus  water 
over  each  piece ;  lay  the  asparagus  over  the  toast,  pour  over  4  ounces 
melted  butter,  then  serve. 

Asparagus  a  PAllemaude.‚Äî Boil  1  bunch  of  asparagus  as  in 
foregoing  recipe ;  10  minutes  before  serving  mix  1  tablespoonful 
flour  with  Y2  gill  of  cold  water,  add  the  yolks  of  2  eggs,  stir  for  a 
few  minutes ;  then  add  gradually  IY3  cupful  asparagus  water  while 
stirring  constantly  over  the  fire  till  nearly  boiling ;  add  in  small 
portions  2  ounces  butter,  stir  until  the  butter  is  well  mingled  with 
the  sauce ;  then  add  1  gill  of  rich  sweet  cream  or  1  tablespoonful 
unsweetened  condensed  milk.  Arrange  the  asparagus  on  a  hot 
dish,  and  serve  the  sauce  in  a  sauce  bowl. 

Asparagus  Hollandaise. ‚Äî Boil  2  bunches  of  asparagus  as  in 
former  recipe ;  place  in  a  saucepan  1  tablespoonful  butter  and  1 
fine-chopped  onion ;  add  6  whole  peppers  and  Yg  bay  leaf,  cook  5 
minutes  without  browning ;  add  1  heaping  tablespoonful  flour,  stir 
and  cook  3  minutes ;  then  add  1  pint  of  chicken  or  veal  broth  ; 
season  with  1  even  teaspoonf  ul  salt,  Y2  teaspoonful  nutmeg,  cook  5 
31 


476  VEGETABLES. 

minutes ;  stndn  through  a  sieve  into  a  saucepan.  Mix  the  yolks  of 
2  eggs  with  1  tablespoonful  lemon  juice,  add  it  gradually  to  the 
sauce ;  set  the  saucepan  on  side  the  stove,  add  slowly  while  stirring 
1  ounce  butter  in  small  portions ;  stir  until  hot,  without  letting  it 
boil,  then  serve  in  a  sauce  bowl.     Sufficient  for  a  family  of  6. 

Asparagus  a  I'ltalienne. ‚Äî Boil  1  bunch  of  asparagus  as  in 
foregoing  recipe  ;  lay  it  in  layers  in  a  dish  ;  sprinkle  over  each  layer 

1  tablespoonful  grated  cheese  until  all  is  used.  Melt  2  ounces  but- 
ter in  a  small  saucepan,  add  2  tablespoonfuls  fine-chopped  onion, 
cook  5  minutes ;  spread  them  over  the  asparagus ;  sprinkle  2  table- 
spoonfuls  grated  cheese  over  the  top  and  1  tablespoonful  grated 
bread  crumbs.  Bake  till  light  brown  in  a  hot  oven,  and  serve  in 
the  same  dish. 

Asparagus  a  la  Tinaigrette. ‚Äî Boil  2  bunches  of  asparagus 
the  same  as  asparagus  with  melted  butter.  Eub  the  yolks  of  3 
hard-boiled  eggs  fine,  add  drop  by  drop  3  tablespoonfuls  salad  oil ; 
then  2  tablespoonfuls  white  vinegar,  2  tablespoonfuls  of  very  finely 
chopped  white  shallots  or  onions,  1  even  tablespoonful  of  salt,  1  even 
teaspoonf ul  white  pepper ;  mix  well  together ;  serve  with  the  boiled 
asparagus  either  hot  or  cold. 

Asparagus  with  Latana  Sauce. ‚Äî Rub  fine  with  a  spoon  the 
yolk  of  1  hard-boiled  egg,  add  gradually  V/s  tablespoonful  salad 
oil,  then  1  tablespoonful  white  vinegar,  1  even  teaspoonful  salt,  Yg 
even  teaspoonful  white  pepper,  1  tablespoonful  fine-chopped  onion, 
the  fine-minced  white  of  the  boiled  egg,  mix  all  together  ;  add  last 

2  tablespoonfuls  of  whipped  cream  (or  1  tablespoonful  unsweetened 
condensed  milk)  and  1  tablespoonful  fine-chopped  parsley.  Serve 
with  boiled  asparagus  either  hot  or  cold. 

Asparagus  with  Peas. ‚Äî Peel  1  bunch  of  asparagus  and  cut 
the  tender  parts  into  1-inch  pieces ;  place  in  a  saucepan,  cover 
with  boiling  water,  add  1  teaspoonful  salt,  and  boil  till  done.  At 
the  same  time  put  1  pint  of  young  green  peas  in  a  saucepan  over 


VEGETABLES.  477 

the  fire,  add  1  teaspoonful  sugar,  cover  with  boiling  water,  boil  till 
tender  and  nearly  dry.  Melt  in  another  saucepan  2  ounces  butter, 
add  1  tablespoonf ul  flour,  stir  and  cook  3  minutes ;  add  lYg  cupful 
asparagus  water,  cook  and  stir  a  few  minutes ;  mix  the  yolks  of  2 
eggs  with  Ys  cupful  cream,  add  it  to  the  sauce,  stir  until  hot,  not  allow- 
ing it  to  boil.  Drain  the  asparagus  on  a  sieve,  drain  also  the  peas  ; 
place  them  in  a  hot  dish,  pour  over  the  sauce,  and  serve. 

Asparagus,  Stewed. ‚Äî Cut  1  bunch  of  peeled  and  well-washed 
asparagus  into  Yg-inch  pieces,  place  them  in  a  saucepan,  cover 
with  boiling  water,  add  Ys  tablespoonful  salt,  and  boil  till  tender. 
In  the  meantime  melt  1  tablespoonful  butter,  add  Y2  tablespoonful 
flour,  stir  and  cook  3  minutes ;  add  1  cupful  of  asparagus  water 
and  Ys  cupful  milk,  cook  5  minutes ;  drain  the  asparagus  and  put 
it  in  the  sauce,  return  it  for  a  few  minutes  over  the  fire,  then  pour 
it  over  6  small  slices  of  buttered  toast. 

Asparagus,  Fried. ‚Äî Season  1  bunch  of  cooked  asparagus  with 
1  even  teaspoonful  seasoning  salt,  dust  with  flour,  dip  in  beaten 
egg,  and  roll  in  fine  sifted  bread  crumbs.  Place  Ys  ounce  lard  and 
Ya  ounce  butter  in  a  frying  pan  over  the  fire  ;  as  soon  as  hot  put  in 
as  many  asparagus  pieces  as  will  conveniently  go  into  the  pan,  fry 
light  brown,  and  serve  on  a  hot  dish.  In  place  of  lard,  beef  fat 
may  be  taken. 

Asparagus  Salad. ‚Äî See  my  book  Desserts  and  Salads,  recipe 
86G. 

CABBAGE,  Etc. 

Creamed  Cabbage. ‚Äî Eemove  the  outer  leaves  from  a  medium- 
sized  head  of  cabbage,  cut  the  head  into  quarters ;  core,  wash,  and 
place  the  cabbage  in  a  saucepan,  cover  with  boiling  water,  add  1 
tablespoonful  sugar,  and  boil  till  done ;  add  Y2  tablespoonful  salt, 
draw  the  saucepan  to  side  of  stove,  let  simmer  10  minutes.  Fifteen 
minutes  before  serving  melt  1  tablespoonful  butter  in  a  saucepan, 
add  1  tablespoonful  flour,  stir  and  cook  3  minutes ;  add  1  pint  of 


478  VEGETABLES. 

hot  milk,  1  even  teaspoonful  salt,  '/^  teaspoonful  white  pepper,  cook 
5  minutes.  Drain  the  cabbage  on  a  sieve,  place  it  in  a  hot  dish, 
pour  the  sauce  over,  and  serve. 

Cabbage  Rolls. ‚Äî Remove  the  outer  leaves  from  a  medium- 
sized  head  of  cabbage,  cut  out  the  root  and  heart ;  place  the  cab- 
bage in  a  saucepan  over  the  fire,  cover  with  boiling  water,  cook  10 
minutes ;  drain  on  a  sieve  and  rinse  off  with  cold  water,  then  divide 
the  leaves  into  6  parts,  season  with  salt  and  pepper,  and  set  aside 
until  following  forcemeat  is  prepared  :  Soak  2  ounces  bread  10  min- 
utes in  cold  water,  inclose  and  press  out  in  a  towel.  Place  a 
saucepan  with  Yg  tablespoonful  butter  over  the  fire,  add  1  table- 
spoonful  fine-chopped  onion,  cook  5  minutes  without  browning ; 
add  the  bread,  stir  and  cook  3  minutes ;  remove,  and  when  cold 
add  4  ounces  sausage  meat,  Yg  even  teaspoonful  salt  and  the  same 
of  pepper,  1  egg,  Ys  teaspoonful  thyme,  and  Y4  teaspoonful  nutmeg ; 
divide  this  equally  over  each  part  of  cabbage,  roll  up,  and  tie  with  a 
string.  Lay  3  thin  slices  of  salt  pork  in  a  pan  large  enough  to 
receive  the  rolls,  add  1  small  sliced  carrot  and  1  sliced  onion ;  put 
the  rolls  on  top,  add  1  cupful  white  broth,  lay  2  thin  slices  of  pork 
over  the  top,  cover  with  buttered  paper,  set  the  pan  in  a  hot  oven, 
and  bake  till  done  (about  40  to  50  minutes),  basting  frequently. 
Cabbage  prepared  in  this  way  is  mostly  used  as  a  garnish  for  boiled 
or  braised  beef,  lamb,  or  mutton. 

Cabbage,  StuflFed. ‚Äî Prepare  a  forcemeat  as  in  foregoing  recipe. 
Eemove  the  outer  leaves  from  a  nice  medium-sized  head  of  cabbage, 
cut  out  the  root,  place  the  cabbage  in  a  saucepan,  cover  with  boiling 
water,  add  Ys  tablespoonful  salt,  boil  10  minutes ;  then  drain  and 
cool  the  cabbage  in  cold  water ;  remove  and  drain  off  all  the  water, 
then  open  the  leaves  and  put  the  forcemeat  between  them,  tie 
securely  with  a  cord  so  that  the  forcemeat  can  not  escape  ;  sprinkle 
over  Y2  tablespoonful  salt  and  1  even  teaspoonful  pepper,  cover  the 
bottom  of  a  round  deep  pan  with  2  sliced  onions,  3  slices  of  salt 
pork,  and  a  few  slices  of  carrot ;  lay  the  cabbage  on  top,  add  1  pint 


VEGETABLES.  479 

white  broth,  cover  with  buttered  paper,  and  cook  till  done,  basting 
frequently.  TV  hen  ready  to  serve,  untie  the  cabbage,  lay  it  on  a  hot 
dish,  and  serve. 

Brown  Kale  a  la  Paysanne  d'Allemande. ‚Äî For  a  family  of 
6  take  4  large  or  6  small  heads  of  brown  kale,  remove  and  throw 
away  the  withered  leaves ;  strip  the  kale  from  the  stems,  cut  the 
small  center  leaves  into  small  pieces,  wash  thoroughly  several  times 
in  cold  water;  drain  well  and  put  in  a  large  covered  saucepan, 
cover  with  boiling  water  and  boil  10  minutes;  then  remove  the 
kale  with  a  skimmer  to  a  colander  to  drain ;  throw  the  water  in 
which  the  kale  was  boiled  away ;  return  the  kale  to  the  saucepan, 
cover  with  fresh  boiling  water ;  wash  2  pounds  of  bacon  in  warm 
water,  lay  it  in  the  center  of  kale ;  add  4  medium-sized  fine-cut 
onions,  4  tablespoonfuls  oatmeal,  4  ounces  fine-chopped  suet,  Yg 
tablespoonful  salt,  1  teaspoonful  pepper,  1  tablespoonful  sugar, 
cover  closely,  and  boil  till  done,  which  will  take  about  2  hours. 
Taste  ;  if  necessary,  add  more  salt. 

Brown  Kale  with  Pinkel. ‚Äî Prepare  the  kale  as  in  forego- 
ing recipe,  omitting  the  suet.  Procure  from  a  German  delicates- 
sen store  a  nice  pinkel,  wash,  lay  it  on  top  the  kale,  and  boil  till 
done. 

Brown  Kale  with  Chestnuts. ‚Äî Procure  3  nice  heads  of 
brown  kale,  remove  the  withered  leaves  and  strip  the  kale  from 
the  stems,  wash  it  thoroughly  several  times  in  cold  water ;  place  it 
in  a  saucepan,  cover  with  boiling  water,  set  over  the  fire,  and  cook 
10  minutes ;  drain  in  a  colander  and  chop  coarsely  on  a  board  ;  re- 
turn the  kale  to  the  saucepan,  add  2  tablespoonfuls  poultry  fat  or 
pure  leaf  lard  ;  season  with  1  even  teaspoonful  salt,  1  even  teaspoon- 
ful pepper,  and  1  fine-chopped  onion,  cover  with  boiling  water,  and 
boil  till  done,  which  will  take  IY2  hour.  At  the  same  time  place  1 
pound  large  chestnuts  over  the  fire,  cook  20  minutes ;  drain,  and 
remove  the  skin ;  return  the  chestnuts  in  a  saucepan  to  the  fire, 
cover  with  white  bouillon  or  broth,  add  1  teaspoonful  sugar,  and 


480  VEGETABLES. 

boil  till  tender ;  then  drain,  add  1  ounce  butter,  and  toss  for  a  few 
minutes  over  the  fire.  Arrange  the  kale  on  a  hot  dish,  around  it 
lay  the  chestnuts,  and  around  the  chestnuts  a  border  of  small  fried 
German  potatoes. 

Spinach  a  la  Creme. ‚Äî Cut  off  the  stalks  from  Yg  peck  of 
spinach,  trim  it  ueatl}^,  and  wash  it  4  times  in  plenty  of  cold  water ; 
place  in  a  saucepan,  cover  with  boiling  water,  add  Yg  tablespoonful 
salt ;  if  very  young  boil  it  10  minutes,  if  old  15  minutes.  Remove, 
drain,  and  press  out  all  the  water,  then  chop  it  very  fine.  Melt  2 
ounces  butter  in  a  saucepan,  add  1  tablespoonful  flour,  stir,  and  cook 
2  minutes ;  add  Yg  pint  cream  or  milk,  Ys  even  teaspoonful  salt,  Y4 
teaspoonful  white  pepper,  cook  a  few  minutes ;  add  the  spinach, 
stir  for  a  few  minutes ;  dress  on  a  hot  dish,  and  garnish  with  6 
poached  eggs  or  3  hard-boiled  eggs  cut  into  quarters. 

Spinach  a  I'Americaine. ‚Äî Prepare  and  wash  Y2  peek  of 
spinach  as  in  foregoing  recipe ;  place  it  over  the  fire  in  a  saucepan, 
cover  with  boiling  water,  add  Yg  tablespoonful  salt,  boil  15  minutes ; 
then  drain  well  in  a  colander,  cut  through  it  several  times  with  a 
knife,  place  it  in  a  hot  covered  dish,  put  1  ounce  butter  in  small 
pieces  over  the  top ;  cover,  and  set  the  dish  for  a  few  minutes  in 
front  of  oven  ;  garnish  with  3  hard-boiled  eggs  cut  into  quarters, 
and  serve  with  vinegar. 

Spinach  a  I'Espagnole. ‚Äî Clean  and  cook  Y2  peck  spinach  the 
same  as  spinach  a  la  creme  ;  chop  it  fine.  Melt  2  ounces  butter  in 
a  saucepan,  add  the  spinach,  Ys  cupful  seedless  raisins,  and  Y2  cup- 
ful fine-chopped  almonds ;  season  with  Y2  even  teaspoonful  pepper 
and  salt  to  taste ;  serve  on  a  hot  dish,  with  6  bread  croutons. 

Spinach  a  I'AUemande. ‚Äî Clean  and  boil  Y2  peck  spinach  the 
same  as  spinach  a  la  creme ;  drain,  and  chop  it  fine.  Melt  1  table- 
spoonful nice  fat  in  a  saucepan,  add  1  fine-chopped  onion,  cook  5 
minutes  without  browning ;  add  1  tablespoonful  flour,  stir  2  min- 
utes ;  add  IY2  cup  of  soup  stock,  cook  3  minutes ;  add  the  spinach, 
cook,  and  stir  for  a  few  minutes  over  the  fire ;  taste ;  if  necessary, 


VEGETABLES,  481 

add  more  salt.     Serve  on  a  hot  dish,  garnish  with  hard-boiled  eggs 
cut  into  quarters,  or  poached  eggs. 

Red  Cabbage  cooked  with  Apples. ‚Äî Place  a  saucepan  with 
lYa  heaping  tablespoonful  lard  over  the  fire,  add  2  quarts  fine- 
shredded  red  cabbage,  cook,  and  stir  5  minutes  over  the  fire ;  add 
ly^  pint  of  boiling  water,  2  onions  with  3  cloves  stuck  into  each,  1 
tablespoonful  salt,  V*  tablespoonful  pepper,  2  tablespoonfuls  sugar, 
Y4  pound  dried  apples  previously  soaked  Yg  hour  in  cold  water; 
cover,  and  cook  slowly  IY3  hour  ;  then  add  Y2  cup  of  white  vinegar, 
boil  10  minutes  longer,  and  serve. 

Red  Cabbage  a  PAllemande. ‚Äî Two  and  a  half  quarts  of  fine- 
shredded  red  cabbage,  IY2  even  tablespoonful  salt,  1  even  table- 
spoonful pepper,  1  cup  boiling  water,  1  glass  of  apple  jelly,  2  large 
onions  with  3  cloves  stuck  in  each  one,  2  cupfuls  red  wine,  Ys  cup 
vinegar,  1  cup  pure  lard.  Place  a  large  saucepan  with  the  lard 
over  the  fire,  add  the  cabbage,  stir  until  well  mixed ;  add  1  cup 
boiling  water,  the  salt,  pepper,  and  onions,  cook  15  minutes ;  then 
add  the  wine  and  jelly,  cover,  and  let  it  cook  gently  ;  when  tender, 
add  Y2  cup  vinegar,  cook  10  minutes  longer,  and  serve. 

Cauliflower  a  I'Allemande. ‚Äî Separate  the  roses  of  a  nice 
head  of  cauliflower ;  wash  in  cold  water,  and  place  the  roses  in  a 
saucepan ;  cover  with  boiling  water,  and  boil  till  tender ;  then  add 
Ys  tablespoonful  salt,  and  draw  the  saucepan  to  the  side  of  stove  to 
keep  hot  until  the  following  sauce  is  made :  Mix  in  a  saucepan  1 
heaping  tablespoonful  flour  with  Y2  cupful  cold  water,  add  the  yolks 
of  2  eggs;  when  well  mixed  add  slowly,  stirring  constantly,  1% 
cupful  of  the  cauliflow^  water  and  1  tablespoonful  butter ;  stir  the 
sauce  over  the  fire  till  nearly  boiling,  then  remove  instantly,  add  2 
tablespoonfuls  sweet  cream  or  1  tablespoonful  unsweetened  con- 
densed milk.  Put  the  cauliflower  in  a  dish,  and  pour  the  sauce 
over  it.  The  cauliflower  may  be  boiled  whole  without  separating 
the  roses. 


482  VEGETABLES. 

Cauliflower  au  Gratin. ‚Äî Clean  a  large  head  of  cauliflower 
and  wash  it  well  in  cold  water ;  place  it  in  a  saucepan,  cover  with 
boiling  water,  add  Yg  tablespoonful  salt,  boil  15  minutes ;  then  re- 
move the  cauliflower  from  the  saucepan  and  separate  the  roses. 
Melt  2  ounces  butter  in  a  saucepan,  add  2  heaping  tablespoonfuls 
flour,  stir  and  cook  2  minutes  ;  add  Yg  V^^^  ^^  chicken  broth  and  1 
pint  of  hot  milk,  1  teaspoonful  salt,  Ys  teaspoonful  nutmeg,  and  a 
small  bouquet,  cook  6  minutes;  remove  the  bouquet;  mix  the  yolks 
of  3  eggs  with  1  gill  of  cream,  add  it  to  the  sauce ;  remove  from 
fire ;  pour  a  few  spoonfuls  of  the  sauce  in  a  dish,  put  the  cauliflower 
on  top  of  the  sauce  with  the  stems  downward,  then  pour  the  remain- 
ing sauce  over  the  cauliflower ;  sprinkle  over  4  tablespoonfuls  grated 
Parmesan  cheese  or  American  cheese,  1  tablespoonful  grated  bread 
crumbs,  and  a  little  melted  butter ;  place  the  dish  in  a  medium-hot 
oven,  and  bake  to  a  fine  golden  color ;  then  serve  in  the  same  dish 
with  a  folded  napkin  around  it. 

Cauliflower  a  la  Tilleroi. ‚Äî Prepare  a  Villeroi  sauce  (see 
Sauces).  Separate  the  roses  of  a  nice  head  of  cauliflower,  place  in 
a  saucepan,  cover  with  boiling  water,  boil  15  minutes ;  then  add  Ys 
tablespoonful  salt,  draw  the  saucepan  to  side  of  stove,  let  it  remain 
5  minutes  ;  di-ain  the  roses  in  a  sieve,  dry  on  a  napkin,  sprinkle  over 
1  even  tablespoonful  salt  and  a  sprinkle  of  nutmeg,  dip  in  the 
Villeroi  sauce,  lay  on  a  flat  dish,  and  set  in  a  cool  place  till  cold  ; 
dip  them  in  fresh  grated  bread  crumbs,  then  in  beaten  egg,  and 
again  in  bread  crumbs  ;  fry  light  brown  in  deep  hot  fat,  like  crullers ; 
remove  them  with  a  skimmer  to  paper,  and  serve  on  a  hot  dish  ;  or 
use  as  a  garnish  around  roasted  veal  or  broiled  meat. 

Savoy  Cal)bage  a  la  Bechamel. ‚Äî Remove  the  outer  leaves 
from  a  nice  head  of  Savoy  cabbage,  cut  it  into  quarters,  remove  the 
core,  and  wash  the  cabbage  in  cold  water ;  drain  ;  place  it  in  a  sauce- 
pan, cover  with  boiling  water,  add  1  tablespoonful  sugar,  and  boil 
till  nearly  done  ;  then  add  Y2  tablespoonful  salt,  and  cook  till  tender. 
Shortly  before  serving,  melt  1  tablespoonful  butter  in  a  saucepan, 


VEGETABLES.  483 

add  1  tablespoonf  ul  flour,  stir  and  cook  3  minutes ;  add  1  pint  of 
boiling  milk,  1  even  teaspoonful  salt,  boil  3  minutes ;  drain  off  all 
the  water  from  the  cabbage,  lay  it  in  a  hot  dish,  and  pour  the  sauce 
over  it. 

Sayoy  Cabbage  with  Butter. ‚Äî Boil  a  head  of  Savoy  cabbage, 
as  in  foregoing  recipe  ;  drain  in  a  sieve ;  put  the  cabbage  in  a  hot 
covered  dish  ;  lay  2  ounces  butter  in  small  pieces  over  the  cabbage, 
cover  and  place  it  for  a  few  minutes  in  front  of  oven,  long  enough 
to  melt  the  butter ;  then  serve. 

Brussels  Sprouts  a  la  Creme. ‚Äî Clean  and  wash  1  quart  Brus- 
sels sprouts,  place  them  in  a  saucepan,  cover  with  boiling  water,  add 
1  even  teaspoonful  salt,  and  boil  till  tender,  about  20  minutes  ;  then 
drain  in  a  sieve.  Melt  1  ounce  butter  in  a  saucepan,  add  1  tea- 
spoonful flour,  stir  and  cook  3  minutes ;  add  %  pint  cream  or  milk, 
cook  2  minutes ;  season  with  a  sprinkle  of  salt  and  sugar.  Place 
the  sprouts  in  a  hot  dish,  pour  the  sauce  over  it,  and  serve. 

Brussels  Sprouts  sauted  in  Butter.‚Äî Clean  and  wash  in  cold 
water  1  quart  of  Brussels  sprouts  ;  place  them  in  a  saucepan,  cover 
with  boiling  water,  add  Yg  teaspoonful  sugar,  and  boil  10  minutes ; 
drain  and  rinse  off  with  cold  water.  Melt  1  tablespoonful  butter  in 
a  saucepan,  add  the  sprouts,  1  even  teaspoonful  salt,  and  Y4  even 
teaspoonful  white  pepper ;  cover  and  cook  till  done,  about  10  min- 
utes; then  serve. 

Sauerkraut  with  Pigs'  Tails.‚Äî For  a  family  of  6  take  2 
quarts  of  sauerkraut  and  3  pounds  pigs'  tails.  Hold  the  tails  over 
a  gas  jet,  light,  or  burning  paper  and  singe  off  the  hair ;  scald  in 
boiling  water  and  rinse  off  in  cold  water ;  place  the  tails  in  a  sauce- 
pan, the  kraut  on  top ;  add  sufficient  boiling  water  to  nearly  cover 
the  kraut,  put  on  the  cover,  and  boil  lYo  hour.  Peel  1  large  potato, 
wash  and  grate,  and  add  it  to  the  sauerkraut,  stir  and  boil  5  minutes ; 
serve  the  pigs'  tails  on  a  hot  dish  and  the  kraut  in  a  covered  dish. 
Sauerkraut  is  at  times  neither  salty  nor  sour  enough ;  in  that  case, 
add  some  salt  and  1  or  2  tablespoonfuls  of  vinegar ;  if  the  kraut 


484  VEGETABLES. 

is  too  salty  or  too  sour,  it  must  be  washed  in  cold  water  before 
boiling. 

Sauerkraut  with  Chestnut  Pur^e. ‚Äî Place  IV2  quart  of 
sauerkraut  in  a  saucepan,  cover  with  boiling  water,  add  4  ounces 
pure  lard  and  Y2  pound  of  parboiled  salt  pork,  cover  and  boil  IY4 
hour ;  then  pour  the  kraut  into  a  colander,  drain  off  all  the  water 
and  fat,  return  it  to  saucepan,  add  1  pint  white  wine,  and  cook  15 
minutes.  At  the  same  time  prepare  a  chestnut  puree.  When  ready 
to  serve,  dress  the  kraut  on  a  hot  dish  and  lay  the  chestnut  puree 
in  a  circle  around  the  dish ;  or  put  the  puree  in  a  border  form, 
turn  it  on  to  a  hot  dish,  and  put  the  sauerkraut  in  the  center. 
Serve  with  fresh  roasted  ham,  roasted  pork,  braised  poultry,  or  with 
boiled  ham. 

Sauerkraut  with  Puree  of  Peas.‚Äî Place  3  pints  sauerkraut 
in  a  saucepan,  add  3  pints  boiling  water.  Place  Vj^  pound  of  lean 
bacon  or  lean  salt  pork  in  another  saucepan  over  the  fire,  cover 
with  cold  water,  boil  30  minutes ;  remove  and  rinse  with  cold  water, 
then  add  it  to  the  sauerkraut,  and  boil  till  tender.  Shortly  before 
serving,  remove  the  pork  or  bacon  and  lay  it  on  a  hot  dish ;  dust  % 
tablespoonful  flour  over  the  sauerkraut,  and  cook  a  few  minutes. 
At  the  same  time  wash  1  pint  of  split  or  shelled  peas,  place 
them  in  a  saucepan  with  1  quart  of  cold  meat  broth,  add  1  whole 
onion  and  Yg  carrot,  boil  until  done  and  thick  (if  necessary  add 
more  broth) ;  when  done  press  the  peas  through  a  sieve  into  a  clean 
saucepan,  add  Y2  ounce  butter,  and  season  to  taste  with  salt  and  a 
little  white  pepper.  Dress  the  sauerkraut  on  a  dish,  and  lay  the 
pea  puree  as  a  border  around  the  kraut ;  cut  the  pork  or  bacon  into 
slices,  and  lay  them  around  the  pea  puree  ;  or  serve  each  in  separate 
dishes.  Another  way  is  to  put  some  pigs'  knuckles  in  a  saucepan 
over  the  fire,  cover  with  boiling  water,  and  cook  1  hour  ;  then  add 
the  sauerkraut  and  cook  IY2  hour.  Taste,  and  if  the  kraut  has  not 
enough  salt  add  some,  and  if  not  sour  enough  add  a  little  vinegar. 
When  done  serve  on  separate  dishes.     If  salted  pigs'  knuckles  are 


VEGETABLES.  485 

taken,  boil  30  minutes,  then  drain,  and  wash  off  with  cold  water ; 
return  the  knuckles  to  the  saucepan,  add  fresh  boiling  water,  and 
cook  30  minutes ;  then  add  the  kraut  and  boil  till  done. 

Sauerkraut  boiled  Plain. ‚Äî Place  3  pints  of  sauerkraut  in  a 
saucepan  over  the  fire,  cover  with  1  quart  boiling  water,  add  2  ounces 
pure  leaf  lard  or  beef  fat,  and  cook  lYg  hour ;  then  dust  over  Yg 
tablespoonful  flour,  stir  and  cook  a  few  minutes ;  serve  with  roasted 
or  fried  pork,  tenderloin,  or  boiled  corned  ham.  If  roasted  pork  is 
served  with  the  kraut,  add  in  place  of  lard  a  few  spoonfuls  of  the 
pork  fat  shortly  before  serving. 

Sauerkraut  with  Frankfurter  Sausages.‚Äî Cook  3  pints  of 
sauerkraut  as  in  the  foregoing  recipe  ;  15  minutes  before  serving, 
wash  lYa  pound  of  Frankfiirter  sausages  in  cold  water,  lay  them  on 
top  the  kraut,  cover  tightly,  draw  the  saucepan  to  side  of  stove,  let  it 
remain  10  minutes  ;  then  remove  the  sausages ;  grate  1  large  peeled 
raw  potato,  add  it  to  the  kraut,  stir  and  boil  5  minutes ;  then  serve. 

Sea  Kale. ‚Äî Prepared  and  cooked  the  same  as  Brussels  sprouts. 

BEANS. 

String  Beans  a  rAllemande.‚Äî Cut  off  the  tops  and  bottoms 
of  2  quarts  of  fresh  string  beans,  remove  the  strings  from  both 
sides,  cut  them  slantingly  into  fine  slices,  wash  in  cold  water,  then 
place  in  a  saucepan  over  the  fire,  cover  with  boiling  water ;  add 
Ys  tablespoonful  salt,  cook  till  tender,  which  will  take  about  2 
hours ;  drain  in  a  colander.  Melt  2  ounces  butter  in  a  saucepan, 
add  1  tablespoonful  flour,  stir  and  cook  3  minutes;  add  1  pint  of 
milk,  1  even  teaspoonful  salt,  and  Y4  teaspoonful  white  pepper,  cook 
3  minutes ;  add  the  beans,  stir  for  5  minutes  over  the  fire ;  taste ; 
if  necessary,  add  more  salt ;  add  1  tablespoonful  fine- chopped  pars- 
ley, and  serve. 

‚ñÝ  String  BeanS;  Hanovarian  Style.‚Äî Boil  2  quarts  of  string 
beans  as  in  foregoing  recipe.  Melt  1  tablespoonful  nice  drippings 
in  a  saucepan,  add  2  tablespoonfuls  fine-chopped  onion,  cook  5 


486  VEGETABLES. 

minutes;  add  1  tablespoonful  flour,  stir  and  cook  3  minutes;  then 
add  Ys  pint  of  broth  or  water  and  3  tablespoonf  uls  vinegar,  cook  3 
minutes.  Drain  the  beans,  add  them  to  the  sauce  ;  taste ;  if  neces- 
sary, add  more  salt ;  and  serve. 

String  Beans  a  I'Americaine. ‚Äî String  and  wash  2  quarts 
beans,  cut  them  slantingly  into  pieces,  place  in  saucepan,  cover  with 
boiling  water,  add  Yg  tablespoonful  salt,  and  boil  till  tender ;  then 
drain  in  a  colander,  put  in  a  hot  dish.  Melt  2  ounces  butter  in  a 
saucepan  and  pour  it  over  the  beans,  mix  with  2  forks,  and  serve. 

String  Beans,  Tiennoise.‚Äî Prepare  and  cook  2  quarts  of 
beans  as  in  foregoing  recipe ;  when  done  drain  them  in  a  colander. 
Melt  1  tablespoonful  butter  or  beef  fat  in  a  saucepan,  add  1  table- 
spoonful flour,  stir  and  cook  a  few  minutes ;  add  1  pint  of  mutton 
or  lamb  broth,  cook  3  minutes ;  add  the  beans,  stir  and  cook  a  few 
minutes ;  season  to  taste  with  salt  and  pepper,  then  serve. 

String  Beans,  Sauted. ‚Äî Procure  1  quart  very  young  fresh 
string  beans,  cut  off  the  top  and  bottom,  remove  the  strings  from 
both  sides,  wash  well  in  cold  water,  place  in  a  saucepan,  cover  with 
boiling  water,  add  Ys  teaspoonful  salt,  and  boil  30  minutes ;  drain, 
and  put  them  into  cold  water ;  when  thoroughly  cold  drain  again^ 
and  dry  on  a  towel ;  melt  IY2  ounce  butter  in  a  saucepan,  add  the 
beans,  toss  10  minutes  over  the  fire;  season  to  taste  with  salt,  then 
serve. 

String  Beans  a  la  Creme. ‚Äî Prepare  and  boil  2  quarts  of 
young  string  beans  in  salted  water  as  in  foregoing  recipe ;  return 
the  beans  to  the  saucepan,  add  2  ounces  butter,  toss  for  a  few  min- 
utes over  the  fire ;  mix  IY2  cup  of  cream  with  the  yolks  of  3  eggs, 
add  them  to  the  beans,  stir  until  nearly  boiling ;  season  to  taste 
with  salt,  add  1  tablespoonful  fine-chopped  parsley,  and  serve. 

Beans  with  Pork  and  Yinegar.‚Äî String  and  wash  2  quarts 
string  beans,  cut  them  slantingly  into  pieces,  boil  in  salted  water  as 
in  foregoing  recipe ;  when  done,  drain  in  a  colander,  place  a  sauce- 


VEGETABLES.  48Y 

pan  with  2  ounces  fine-cut  larding  pork  over  the  fire,  fry  until  it 
turns  a  straw-color ;  then  add  2  fine-chopped  onions,  cook  5  min- 
utes without  browning ;  add  1  tablespoonf  ul  flour,  stir  and  cook  2 
minutes ;  add  iVg  cupful  soup  stock  and  Yg  cupful  white  vinegar, 
season  with  Yg  even  teaspoonful  pepper,  1  even  teaspoonful  sugar, 
boil  5  minutes  ;  add  the  beans,  stir  and  cook  a  few  minutes  longer, 
then  serve.  In  place  of  pork,  2  tablespoonf  uls  drippings  or  butter 
may  be  taken. 

Salted  Beans. ‚Äî String  1  or  2  bushels  of  young  string  beans, 
cut  them  slantingly  into  thin  slices.  Have  ready  a  bag  of  un- 
bleached muslin,  made  like  a  pillowcase ;  mix  the  beans  with  salt, 
allowing  1  pint  of  salt  for  each  bushel  of  beans ;  pack  the  beans  in 
the  bag,  tie  the  bag  together,  put  it  in  a  well-cleaned  butter  tub, 
lay  a  board  over  the  bag,  and  a  heavy  stone  on  top  the  board ;  pour 
over  sufficient  salt  water  (strong  enough  to  float  an  egg)  to  cover 
the  bag,  and  set  the  tub  in  a  cool  place.  The  beans  will  keep  all 
winter,  in  perfect  condition,  providing  they  are  kept  under  the  salt 
water. 

Salted  Beans^  Boiled. ‚Äî Take  the  desired  quantity  of  salted 
beans  out  of  the  bag,  replace  the  board  and  stone ;  wash  the  beans 
thoroughly  several  times  in  cold  water,  drain  and  place  in  a  sauce- 
pan, cover  with  boiling  water,  cook  30  minutes ;  then  drain  in  a 
colander,  rinse  off  with  boiling  water ;  return  the  beans  to  the 
saucepan,  cover  with  fresh  boiling  water,  and  boil  till  done,  which 
will  take  about  2  hours.  Shortly  before  serving,  drain  the  beans, 
put  them  in  a  hot  dish,  add  a  piece  of  butter,  mix  butter  and  beans 
together,  then  serve. 

Beans  a  la  Mikado. ‚Äî String  and  wash  2  quarts  string  beans, 
place  in  a  saucepan,  cover  with  boiling  water,  add  Y2  tablespoonful 
salt,  and  cook  until  done  ;  remove  the  beans,  drain  in  a  colander. 
Melt  2  ounces  butter  in  a  saucepan,  then  remove ;  add  2  tablespoou- 
fuls  lemon  juice,  Y2  even  teaspoonful  white  pepper,  1  tablespoonful 
.chopped  parsley,  and  Ys  teaspoonful   nutmeg ;  mix  all   together ; 


488  VEGETABLES. 

add  the  beans,  toss  them  for  a  few  minutes  over  the  fire  ;  taste  ;  if 
necessary,  add  more  salt.  Arrange  the  beans  on  a  hot  dish,  pile 
them  up  high  in  the  center,  and  garnish  with  sausages  prepared  as 
follows  :  Put  1  cup  of  lard  and  2  cups  of  flour  in  a  bowl,  chop  the 
lard  in  the  flour  fine  with  a  knife,  add  1  teaspoonful  salt  and  Yg  cup 
cold  water  ;  mix  with  the  same  knife  into  a  stiff  paste,  turn  it  on  to 
a  floured  board,  roll  it  out  thin,  and  cut  out  from  the  paste  12  pieces  5 
inches  long  and  4  inches  wide,  wash  and  wipe  dry  12  fresh  sausages. 
Mix  1  even  teaspoonful  salt  with  Y2  even  teaspoonful  pepper, 
sprinkle  evenly  over  the  sausages ;  lay  1  sausage  in  the  center  of 
each  piece  of  paste,  fold  the  paste  around,  close  the  ends,  lay  in  a 
shallow  tin  pan,  brush  over  with  beaten  egg,  and  bake  in  a  medium- 
hot  oven  to  a  fine  golden  color ;  then  lay  them  around  the  beans 
and  serve  with  the  following  sauce  :  Boil  1  egg  12  minutes,  remove 
the  shell,  lay  it  in  cold  water ;  when  cold  wipe  dry  and  grate  on  a 
grater.  Melt  1  ounce  butter  in  a  cup,  add  it  gradually  to  the  egg, 
stirring  constantly  ;  season  with  1  even  teaspoonful  salt,  Y2  even  tea- 
spoonful white  pepper,  1  tablespoonful  fine-chopped  white  onion  or 
shallot,  1  tablespoonful  lemon  juice,  1  tablespoonful  white  vinegar, 
Y2  teaspoonful  English  mustard,  add  last  1  gill  of  whipped  cream. 
Put  1  teaspoonful  sauce  on  top  of  each  sausage  and  serve. 

String  Beans  with  Boiled  Mutton. ‚Äî Prepare  and  cook  the 
beans  as  in  foregoing  recipe ;  place  the  cooked  and  well-drained 
beans  in  a  saucepan ;  have  a  breast  of  mutton  or  lamb  boiled  in 
another  saucepan  ;  take  a  few  ladlef uls  from  the  mutton  broth,  add 
it  to  the  beans,  cook  them  a  few  minutes,  then  serve.  Salted  string 
beans  can  be  prepared  the  same  way  as  fresh  beans  after  they  have 
been  cooked  and  drained. 

Salted  Beans  with  Dried  White  Beans.‚Äî Soak  1  pint  dried 
white  beans  in  cold  water  over  night ;  in  the  morning  place  them 
in  a  saucepan,  cover  with  cold  water,  add  1  pound  lean  bacon,  and 
cook  till  tender.  Place  in  another  saucepan  1  quart  of  well-washed 
salted  beans,  cover  with  boiling  water,  cook  30  minutes  ;  drain  in  a 


VEGETABLES.  489 

colander,  rinse  off  with  boiling  water,  return  the  beans  to  the  sauce- 
pan, cover  with  fresh  boiling  water,  cook  40  minutes ;  drain  them 
in  a  sieve.  When  the  white  beans  are  done  add  the  string  beans, 
cook  both  together  10  minutes,  then  serve. 

String  Beans,  Preseryed. ‚Äî String  and  cut  the  beans  slant- 
ingly into  fine  slices,  place  them  in  a  saucepan,  cover  with  boiling 
water,  cook  20  minutes ;  then  place  some  clean  glass  Jars  on  a 
double  folded  wet  cloth  and  fill  them  with  the  hot  beans,  put 
as  much  salicylic  acid  into  each  jar  as  you  can  hold  on  the  point 
of  a  knife ;  fill  the  jars  to  overflowing  with  boiling  water,  close 
tightly,  place  in  a  large  kettle  of  warm  water  with  a  cloth  tied 
around  each  jar  (the  jars  should  be  2  inches  under  the  water),  boil 
them  20  minutes  ;  then  remove  them  from  the  kettle,  set  them  on  a 
table,  and  if  the  jars  are  not  full  open  and  fill  them  with  boiling 
water ;  close  them  quickly  and  set  the  jars  upside  down  till  cold ; 
then  examine  if  they  are  screwed  tightly  and  set  in  a  cool  place. 

PreserYed  Beans,  Cooked.‚Äî Open  a  jar  of  preserved  string 
beans,  drain  and  put  them  in  a  saucepan  with  boiling  water,  add  Yg 
teaspoonf  ul  salt,  and  cook  till  tender ;  then  drain  and  finish  the 
same  as  fresh  string  beans. 

String  Bean  Salad. ‚Äî See  my  book  Desserts  and  Salads,  recipe 
878. 

Red  Beans. ‚Äî Soak  1  quart  well-washed  red  beans  in  cold  water 
overnight ;  in  the  morning  place  them  with  fresh  cold  water  in  a 
saucepan  over  the  fire  ;  as  soon  as  they  boil  add  1  teaspoonf  ul  salt, 
Y4  teaspoonf  ul  pepper,  1  whole  onion,  and  a  small  bouquet,  boil 
until  done  ;  then  add  1  ounce  butter  and  Y3  gill  cream  or  unsweet- 
ened condensed  milk,  cook  for  a  few  minutes,  and  serve.  Another 
way  is  to  add  Y2  cupful  red  wine  and  1  onion  into  which  3  cloves 
have  been  stuck. 

Lima  Beans. ‚Äî Place  1  quart  shelled  Lima  beans  in  a  saucepan, 
cover  with  boiling  water,  add  Y2  teaspoonful  salt,  and  boil  till  ten- 


490  VEGETABLES. 

der.  Mix  y2  teaspoonful  cornstarch  or  flour  with  Yg  tablespoonful 
butter ;  add  it  to  the  beans,  cook  a  few  minutes ;  add  1  gill  of 
cream  or  unsweetened  condensed  milk,  a  little  fine-chopped  parsley, 
season  to  taste  with  salt,  and  serve. 

Lima  Beans,  Sauted, ‚Äî Boil  1  quart  fresh  shelled  Lima  beans 
in  salted  water  30  minutes,  then  drain  off  all  the  water,  put  the 
beans  into  cold  water  until  cold ;  then  drain  again,  and  return  to 
the  saucepan,  add  1  tablespoonful  butter,  Y2  even  teaspoonful  salt, 
74  teaspoonful  nutmeg,  toss  over  the  fire  until  hot,  add  Yg  giU  of 
cream  and  1  teaspoonful  fine-chopped  parsley,  then  serve. 

Dried  Lima  Beans. ‚Äî Soak  1  quart  dried  Lima  beans  in  cold 
water  overnight ;  in  the  morning  drain  and  place  them  in  a  sauce- 
pan with  Y2  pound  of  lean,  well-washed  salt  pork,  cover  with  cold 
water,  and  cook  till  tender  ;  remove  the  pork,  mix  Ys  tablespoonful 
butter  with  Yg  teaspoonful  flour,  add  it  to  the  beans ;  season  with  Y4 
teaspoonful  white  pepper  and  salt  to  taste,  cook  a  few  minutes ;  add 
1  tablespoonful  unsweetened  condensed  milk  and  a  little  fine- 
chopped  parsley,  then  serve. 

Dried  White  Beans. ‚Äî Soak  1  quart  dried  beans  in  cold  water 
overnight;  in  the  morning  drain  and  place  them  in  a  saucepan, 
cover  with  cold  water,  add  1  onion  and  1  teaspoonful  salt,  cook  till 
tender ;  then  drain  in  a  sieve.  Place  a  saucepan  with  4  ounces  fine- 
cut  larding  pork  over  the  fire,  fry  to  a  fine  golden  color ;  take  out 
the  small  pieces  of  pork  and  keep  them  warm ;  add  to  the  pork  fat 
1  gill  of  fine-chopped  onion,  cook  5  minutes ;  add  Ys  tablespoonful 
flour,  stir  and  cook  2  minutes ;  add  Ys  cupful  vinegar,  Ys  tablespoon- 
ful sugar,  Ys  even  teaspoonful  pepper,  Ys  even  teaspoonful  salt,  and 
1  cupful  soup  stock,  cook  a  few  minutes ;  then  add  the  cooked 
beans,  toss  for  a  few  minutes  over  the  fire,  put  in  a  hot  dish, 
lay  the  small  pieces  of  pork  which  were  set  aside  over  them,  and 
serve. 


VEGETABLES.  491 


PEAS. 

Green  Peas‚Äî Modern  Style.‚Äî Shell  Vg  peck  of  young  peas, 
put  them  in  a  saucepan,  add  1  tablespoonful  sugar  and  sufficient 
boiling  water  to  barely  cover ;  add  2  ounces  butter  and  1  head  of 
lettuce,  boil  15  minutes ;  then  add  1  even  teaspoonful  salt,  remove 
the  lettuce,  and  cook  till  nearly  dry ;  add  Y4  teaspoonful  white  pep- 
per. Mix  the  yolks  of  2  eggs  with  Y3  cupful  cream,  add  it  to  the 
peas,  let  it  remain  for  a  few  minutes  over  the  fire  without  boiling, 
then  serve. 

Oreen  Peas  a  PAUemande. ‚Äî Shell  Y3  peck  fresh  green  peas, 
place  them  in  a  saucepan  over  the  fire,  barely  cover  with  boiling 
water,  add  1  tablespoonful  sugar,  and  cook  till  tender ;  then  add  1 
even  teaspoonful  salt.  Mix  1  tablespoonful  butter  with  1  teaspoon- 
ful flour,  add  it  to  the  peas,  stir  and  cook  for  a  few  minutes ;  taste ; 
if  necessary,  add  more  salt;  add  last  1  tablespoonful  fine-chopped 
parsley,  and  serve. 

Stewed  Peas  and  Carrots  a  rAllemande.‚Äî Clean  and  cut 

into  slices  3  or  4  carrots,  lay  several  slices  over  one  another,  and  cut 
them  into  fine  narrow  strips,  like  straws,  then  measure ;  there  should 
be  1  pint.  Place  in  a  saucepan  over  the  fire,  cover  with  boiling 
water,  add  1  tablespoonful  sugar,  and  cook  30  minutes ;  then  add  1 
pint  of  fresh  green  shelled  peas,  cook  20  minutes ;  season  with  1  tea- 
spoonful salt;  mix  1  tablespoonful  butter  with  Yg  tablespoonful 
flour,  add  it  to  the  vegetables,  stir  and  cook  3  minutes ;  add  2  table- 
spoonfuls  cream  or  a  little  unsweetened  condensed  milk,  add  last  1 
tablespoonful  fine-chopped  parsley ;  taste,  and  if  necessary  add  more 
salt,  then  serve. 

Green  Peas  a  rAmericaine. ‚Äî Shell  Y2  peck  fresh  green  peas, 
place  them  in  a  saucepan  over  the  fire,  cover  with  boiling  water; 
add  1  teaspoonful  sugar,  cook  till  nearly  done,  then  add  1  teaspoon- 
ful salt,  and  cook  a  few  minutes  longer ;  add  1  tablespoonful  butter, 
stir  until  melted,  then  serve.     (Care  must  be  taken  not  to  have  too 


492  VEGETABLES. 

much  liquid  on  the  peas.)  Another  way  is  to  boil  the  peas  as  above, 
and  when  done,  drain  and  return  them  to  saucepan,  add  lYg  ounce 
butter,  toss  for  a  few  minutes,  then  serve. 

Green  Peas  a  I'Anglaise. ‚Äî Shell  V2  peck  fresh  green  peas, 
place  them  in  a  saucepan,  cover  with  boiling  water,  add  1  sprig  of 
mint,  1  teaspoonful  salt,  and  cook  till  tender;  remove  the  mint. 
Mix  1  tablespoonful  butter  with  Y2  teaspoonful  flour ;  add  it  to  the 
peas,  stir  and  cook  3  minutes ;  season  to  taste  with  salt,  and  serve. 
The  flour  may  be  omitted. 

Green-pea  Puree. ‚Äî Place  IY2  pint  shelled  green  peas  in  a 
saucepan,  cover  with  boiling  water,  add  1  teaspoonful  sugar,  and 
boil  till  tender ;  drain  and  press  through  a  sieve ;  melt  1  tablespoon- 
ful butter,  add  Yg  tablespoonful  flour,  stir  and  cook  3  minutes ;  add 
Y2  cupful  milk,  1  even  teaspoonful  salt,  cook  for  a  few  minutes ; 
add  the  puree  of  peas  and  Y2  gi^l  of  cream,  mix  all  well  together,  and 
use  as  directed  in  previous  recipe. 

CARROTS,  TURNIPS,  Etc. 

Carrot  Balls. ‚Äî Scrape  and  wash  4  large  carrots,  cut  them  into 
round  balls  with  a  vegetable  cutter,  then  measure  (there  should  be  1 
pint).  Place  in  a  saucepan  over  the  fire,  cover  with  boiling  water ; 
add  1  teaspoonful  sugar,  and  cook  till  done  ;  then  add  Y2  teaspoon- 
ful salt,  cook  for  a  few  minutes  ;  drain  of  the  water,  add  Y2  ounce 
butter,  toss  a  few  minutes  over  the  fire,  and  use  for  garnishing. 

Stewed  Carrots  a  PAllemande. ‚Äî Scrape  and  clean  3  to  4 
large  carrots,  wash,  and  cut  them  into  slices,  lay  several  slices  over 
one  another,  and  cut  into  narrow  strips,  like  straws  ;  then  measure 
(there  should  be  lYg  pint).  Place  in  a  saucepan,  cover  with  IY2 
pint  boiling  water,  add  1  tablespoonful  sugar,  and  cook  till  tender; 
then  add  1  teaspoonful  salt.  Mix  1  teaspoonful  cornstarch  or  flour 
with  1  tablespoonful  butter,  add  it  to  the  carrots,  cook  slowly  5 
minutes  ;  add  Y2  gill  of  cream  or  unsweetened  condensed  milk,  add 


VEGETABLES.  493 

last  1  tablespoonful  flue-chopped  parsley  ;  then  taste ;  if  necessary, 
add  more  salt,  and  serve. 

Young  Carrots  and  Lima  Beans. ‚Äî Scrape  and  wash  2  or  3 
bunches  of  young  carrots,  cut  them  into  small  dices,  then  measure 
(there  should  be  1  pint).  Place  in  a  saucepan  over  the  fire,  add  1 
teaspoonful  sugar,  boil  10  minutes  ;  then  add  1  pint  of  shelled 
Lima  beans,  cook  until  done  ;  add  1  teaspoonful  salt.  Mix  1  table- 
spoonful  butter  with  1  teaspoonful  flour,  add  it  to  the  vegetables, 
cook  a  few  minutes ;  add  1  gill  of  cream,  or  a  little  unsweetened 
condensed  milk,  and  1  tablespoonful  fine-chopped  parsley ;  if  neces- 
sary, add  more  salt,  and  serve. 

Creamed  White  Turnips. ‚Äî Peel  and  cut  into  slices  6  me- 
dium-sized white  turnips,  cut  each  into  2,  lay  3  slices  over  one 
another,  and  cut  into  strips.  Place  the  turnips  in  a  saucepan,  cover 
with  boiling  water;  add  1  teaspoonful  sugar,  and  boil  till  tender; 
then  add  Yg  teaspoonful  salt.  Ten  minutes  before  serving  set  a 
small  saucepan  with  1  teaspoonful  flour  and  Yg  tablespoonful  butter 
over  the  fire,  stir,  and  cook  2  minutes ;  add  1  cupful  boiling  milk, 
cook  3  minutes ;  season  with  Y2  even  teaspoonful  salt,  a  little  white 
pepper,  and  1  tablespoonful  fine-chopped  parsley,  drain  the  turnips 
in  a  colander  ;  pour  into  a  hot  dish  and  the  sauce  over  them. 

White  Turnips  a  la  Creme. ‚Äî Pare  and  wash  8  medium- 
sized  white  turnips,  cut  into  thick  slices,  the  slices  into  strips,  then 
measure  (there  should  be  1  quart) ;  place  them  into  a  saucepan, 
cover  with  boiling  water,  add  1  teaspoonful  sugar,  and  boil  till  ten- 
der ;  then  add  1  teaspoonful  salt,  cook  a  few  minutes  longer ;  drain 
in  a  colander.  Melt  1  ounce  butter  in  a  saucepan,  add  1  tea- 
spoonful of  flour,  stir,  and  cook  a  few  minutes,  add  lYs  cupful  hot 
milk,  cook  3  minutes ;  add  the  turnips,  cook  and  stir  lightly  a 
few  minutes  over  the  fire ;  taste ;  if  necessary,  add  more  salt ;  then 
add  Y-i  teaspoonful  white  pepper  and  1  tablespoonful  chopped  pars- 
ley, and  serve. 


494  VEGETABLES. 

White-turnip  Puree. ‚Äî Peel  8  medium- sized  white  turnips, 
wash  and  cut  them  into  quarters.  Place  with  1  quart  boiling  water 
over  the  fire ;  add  1  teaspoonful  sugar,  and  boil  till  tender ;  then 
drain,  and  press  through  a  sieve  into  a  clean  saucepan ;  add  1  ounce 
butter  and  1  tablespoonful  unsweetened  condensed  milk,  1  tea- 
spoonful  salt,  and  a  little  white  pepper ;  stir  for  a  few  minutes  over 
the  fire ;  and  serve.     Eussian-turnip  puree  is  prepared  the  same. 

Turnip  Balls. ‚Äî Peel  several  large  white  turnips,  wash,  and  cut 
them  with  a  vegetable  cutter  into  small  balls,  place  in  a  saucepan, 
cover  with  boiling  water ;  add  1  teaspoonful  sugar,  boil  until  nearly 
done ;  then  add  1  teaspoonful  salt,  cook  3  minutes ;  drain  on  a 
sieve  and  return  to  saucepan,  add  1  ounce  butter,  toss  for  a  few 
minutes  over  the  fire,  and  use  as  a  garnish.  Eussian  turnip  balls 
may  be  prepared  in  the  same  way. 

Russian  Turnips  with  Frankfurter  Sausages. ‚Äî Place  a 
saucepan  with  2  medium-sized  peeled,  washed,  and  finely  cut  tur- 
nips over  the  fire,  cover  with  boiling  water,  add  V2  tablespoonful 
sugar,  cook  1  hour;  then  add  1  quart  peeled  potatoes  cut  into 
quarters,  add  1  tablespoonful  salt ;  as  soon  as  it  begins  to  boil  lay 
2  pounds  Frankfurter  sausages  on  top  the  turnips,  cook  slowly  10 
minutes;  remove  the  sausages,  keep  them  warm.  Fry  4  ounces 
fine-cut  larding  pork  light  brown ;  add  2  fine-chopped  onions,  cook 
5  minutes ;  add  1  tablespoonful  flour,  stir,  and  cook  2  minutes ;  add 
the  water  from  the  vegetables,  cook  a  few  minutes ;  then  pour  it 
over  the  turnips  and  potatoes ;  taste ;  if  necessary,  add  more  salt ; 
add  Y2  teaspoonful  white  pepper,  and  serve  in  an  oblong  dish,  lay 
the  Frankfiirters  in  a  circle  around  it ;  sprinkle  1  tablespoonful  fine- 
chopped  parsley  over  the  whole,  and  serve. 

Russian  Turnips  with  Lamb. ‚Äî Place  a  saucepan  with  3 
pounds  of  lamb  from  the  forequarter  over  the  fire,  cover  with  boil- 
ing water,  add  1  tablespoonful  salt  and  1  even  teaspoonful  pepper, 
boil  30  minutes ;  then  add  1  quart  of  peeled  and  fine-cnt  Eussian 
turnips,  cook  1  hour ;  add  1  quart  of  potatoes,  peeled  and  cut  into 


VEGETABLES.  495 

quarters,  and  cook  until  done ;  take  out  the  meat.  Mix  1  table- 
spoonful  butter  with  1  tablespoonful  flour,  add  it  to  the  vegetables, 
cook  5  minutes ;  taste,  and  if  necessary  add  more  salt  and  pepper, 
then  serve  with  the  meat.  The  butter  may  be  omitted,  and  the 
flour  mixed  with  a  little  cold  water  and  then  added. 

Russian  Turnips^  Creamed. ‚Äî Peel  1  large  Russian  turnip, 
cut  it  into  slices,  then  lay  several  slices  over  one  another,  and  cut 
them  into  narrow  strips  ;  measure  them.  For  1  quart  of  the  cut 
turnips,  allow  1  quart  of  boiling  water  and  1  tablespoonful  sugar, 
boil  till  done ;  then  add  1  teaspoonful  salt,  cook  a  few  minutes 
longer ;  drain  in  a  colander.  Melt  1  tablespoonful  butter,  add  Yg 
tablespoonful  flour,  cook  2  minutes  ;  add  1  cup  of  boiling  milk, 
boil  2  minutes ;  add  the  turnips,  mix  and  cook  a  few  minutes 
longer,  then  add  a  little  fine-chopped  parsley,  and  serve. 

Turnip  with  Bouillon. ‚Äî Peel  and  cut  into  quarters  8 
medium-sized  white  turnips,  place  them  in  a  saucepan  over  the 
fire,  cover  with  boiling  water ;  add  1  teaspoonful  sugar,  and  cook 
till  nearly  done  ;  then  add  1  teaspoonful  salt,  cook  5  minutes  ;  drain 
in  a  colander.  Melt  1  tablespoonful  butter  or  good  fat  in  a  sauce- 
pan, add  Yg  tablespoonful  flour,  stir  and  cook  3  minutes ;  add  lYg 
cupful  white  broth  or  soup  stock,  cook  3  minutes  ;  add  the  turnips ; 
season  to  taste  with  salt ;  add  Y4  teaspoonful  pepper  and  1  table- 
spoonful flne-chopped  parsley  ;  toss  for  a  few  minutes  over  the  flre, 
and  serve. 

Russian  turnips  are  prepared  in  the  same  way,  only  cut  them  first 
into  slices,  then  into  strips. 

Hussian  Turnips,  Boiled. ‚Äî Peel  2  medium-sized  Russian 
turnips,  cut  each  one  into  quarters,  wash  and  place  in  a  saucepan 
over  the  fire,  cover  with  boiling  water ;  add  1  tablespoonful  sugar, 
and  boil  till  tender,  which  will  take  2  hours  ;  then  add  1  teaspoon- 
ful salt,  let  cook  10  minutes  longer,  then  drain  and  serve. 

Russian    Turnips  with   Bacon    and    Potatoes.‚Äî Peel  2 

medium-sized  turnips,  cut  them  into  slices,  the  slices  into  strips. 


496  VEGETABLES. 

Place  a  saucepan  with  lYg  pound  well-washed  lean  bacon  over  the 
fire,  and  coyer  with  cold  water ;  as  soon  as  it  boils  add  the  fine-cut 
turnips,  boil  1  hour ;  then  add  1  quart  potatoes  cut  into  quarters, 
boil  until  done ;  season  with  salt  and  pepper  to  taste.  Mix  Yg  table- 
spoonful  flour  with  1  ounce  butter,  add  it  to  the  vegetables,  cook  5 
minutes ;  cut  the  bacon  into  thin  slices,  and  serve. 

Squash. ‚Äî Place  1  quart  of  fine-cut  peeled  squash  in  a  saucepan, 
cover  with  1  quart  of  boiling  water,  add  1  tablespoonful  sugar,  and 
cook  till  tender ;  then  drain  ;  rub  it  through  a  sieve  or  colander,  let 
it  stand  5  minutes,  and  drain  again  ;  return  to  the  saucepan,  add  1 
tablespoonful  butter,  season  to  taste  with  salt,  stir  for  a  few  min- 
utes over  the  fire,  and  serve. 

CORN,  BEETS,  CELERY,  Etc. 

Corn  Fritters.‚Äî Mix  the  yolks  of  2  eggs  in  a  bowl  with  Vg 
cupful  milk,  add  1  cupful  sifted  flour,  1  even  teaspoonful  salt,  2 
cups  of  grated  or  chopped  corn,  and  the  whites  of  2  eggs  beaten  to 
a  stiff  froth  (if  too  thick,  add  a  little  more  milk).  Place  a  large 
frying  pan  over  the  fire  with  1  tablespoonful  lard  or  fat,  when  hot 
put  small  portions  of  the  mixture  with  a  spoon  into  the  hot  fat  to 
form  small  round  cakes,  and  bake  light  brown  on  both  sides.  Serve 
on  a  hot  dish. 

Mock  Oysters. ‚Äî Take  3  or  4  ears  of  young  green  corn,  cut  the 
corn  from  the  cob,  then  measure  it ;  there  should  be  1  pint.  Put 
the  corn  in  a  bowl,  add  the  yolks  of  2  eggs,  2  tablespoonfuls  of 
flour,  1  even  teaspoonful  salt,  Yg  even  teaspoonful  white  pepper,  and 
last  the  whites  beaten  to  a  stiff  froth.  Place  a  frying  pan  with  1 
tablespoonful  lard  or  fat  over  the  fire ;  put  the  mixture  with  a 
teaspoon  into  the  hot  fat  (the  size  of  an  oyster),  and  fry  light 
brown  on  both  sides.  Serve  for  breakfast  or  lunch  with  broiled  or 
fried  meat. 

Corn  Pudding. ‚Äî Cut  the  corn  from  the  cob  of  4  or  5  ears  of 
fresh  green  corn,  then  measure  it ;  there  should  be  1  heaping  pint. 


VEGETABLES.  497 

Put  the  corn  in  a  bowl,  add  the  yolks  of  2  eggs,  1  pint  of  milk, 
1  ounce  melted  butter,  1  even  teaspoonful  salt,  1  tablespoonful 
sugar,  the  2  whites  beaten  to  a  stiff  froth,  and  Y4  teaspoonful  white 
pepper,  mix  all  well  together.  Pour  the  preparation  into  a  quart 
buttered  pudding  dish,  and  bake  in  medium-hot  oven  till  firm  to 
the  touch ;  then  remove,  and  serve  in  same  dish  it  was  baked. 
Serve  with  broiled  chops  or  steaks,  or  with  roasted  lamb.  If 
canned  corn  is  taken,  use  1  can  of  corn,  and  prepare  in  the  same  way 
as  above. 

Green  Corn. ‚Äî For  a  family  of  6  procure  about  9  ears  of  young 
green  corn,  remove  the  leaves  and  silk,  place  the  com  in  a  saucepan, 
cover  with  boiling  water ;  add  1  tablespoonful  sugar,  and  boil  15 
minutes;  then  remove  and  serve  with  butter  and  salt.  Corn  is 
much  sweeter  if  boiled  with  sugar  in  place  of  salt. 

Creamed  Corn. ‚Äî Cut  the  corn  from  6  ears  of  fresh  young 
sweet  corn,  place  it  in  a  saucepan,  cover  with  milk,  add  1  table- 
spoonful sugar,  boil  slowly  10  minutes ;  then  add  1  even  teaspoon- 
ful salt,  Y4  teaspoonful  white  pepper;  mix  Yg  tablespoonful  corn- 
starch or  flour  with  1  tablespoonful  butter,  add  it  to  the  corn,  stir 
and  cook  for  a  few  minutes  ;  taste ;  if  necessary,  add  more  salt,  then 
serve. 

Snccotash  of  Corn  and  Lima  Beans. ‚Äî Place  a  saucepan 
with  1  pint  of  fresh  shelled  Lima  beans  over  the  fire,  cover  with 
boiling  water,  add  small  teaspoonful  salt,  and  cook  till  tender,  which 
will  take  about  30  minutes.  Cut  the  corn  from  4  ears  of  fresh 
green  corn,  place  the  corn  in  a  separate  saucepan,  cover  with  milk, 
add  1  tablespoonful  sugar,  cook  10  minutes ;  mix  Y2  tablespoonful 
cornstarch  or  flour  with  1  tablespoonful  butter,  add  it  to  the  corn, 
season  with  1  even  teaspoonful  salt,  Ys  even  teaspoonful  white  pep- 
per, cook  3  minutes ;  drain  the  Lima  beans,  add  them  to  the  corn, 
cook  3  minutes,  and  serve. 

Succotash  of  Corn  and  String  Beans. ‚Äî String  and  cut 
1  quart  fresh  string  beans  slantingly  into  pieces,  wash  and  drain ; 


498  VEGETABLES. 

place  them  in  a  saucepan,  cover  with  boiling  water,  add  Yg  table- 
spoonful  salt,  and  boil  till  tender,  about  lYg  hour.  Cut  the  corn 
from  the  cobs  of  6  ears  of  fresh  green  corn,  place  it  in  a  saucepan, 
cover  with  milk,  add  1  tablespoonful  sugar,  and  boil  10  minutes. 
As  soon  as  the  beans  are  done,  drain  in  a  colander,  return  the  beans 
to  the  saucepan,  add  the  corn ;  mix  1  tablespoonful  cornstarch  or 
flour  with  1  tablespoonful  butter,  add  it  to  the  succotash  (if  too 
thick,  add  a  little  milk) ;  season  with  Y^  teaspoonful  white  pepper, 
and,  if  necessary,  add  more  salt,  cook  a  few  minutes  and  serve.  In 
place  of  fresh  corn,  canned  corn  may  be  taken. 

Corn  a  la  Dore. ‚Äî Cut  the  corn  from  3  or  4  young  ears  of 
fresh  corn,  then  measure ;  there  should  be  1  heaping  pint.  Place 
the  corn  in  a  bowl,  add  Y2  tablespoonful  sugar,  2  eggs,  and  Ys 
teaspoonful  salt.  Set  at  the  same  time  a  saucepan  with  Yg  cupful 
fine-cut  onion  over  the  fire,  add  2  ounces  butter,  and  cook  5  min- 
utes; then  add  Ys  can  of  tomatoes,  1  teaspoonful  sugar,  Y2  teaspoon- 
ful salt,  and  Y4  teaspoonful  pepper,  cook  10  minutes ;  rub  the  toma- 
toes through  a  sieve,  add  them  to  the  corn ;  mix  all  together ;  put 
the  preparation  in  a  buttered  dish  and  bake  till  firm,  which  will 
take  from  10  to  15  minutes.     Serve  in  the  same  dish. 

Corn  I'ltalicnne. ‚Äî Place  a  saucepan  over  the  fire,  with  2  fine- 
cut  white  onions,  1  ounce  butter,  1  fine-chopped  green  pepper  with- 
out the  seeds,  Ys  cupful  fine-chopped  mushrooms,  cook  5  minutes ; 
add  Ya  can  of  tomatoes,  Y2  tablespoonful  sugar,  Y2  teaspoonful  salt, 
cook  15  minutes.  Open  1  can  of  sweet  corn  and  turn  it  into  a  dish, 
mix  with  2  well-beaten  eggs,  1  teaspoonful  sugar,  1  teaspoonful 
salt ;  remove  the  tomatoes,  set  them  aside  to  cool ;  then  mix  with 
the  corn.  Butter  a  pudding  dish,  one  which  can  be  sent  to  the 
table,  pour  in  the  mixture ;  place  in  a  medium-hot  oven  till  firm, 
which  will  take  from  10  to  15  minutes. 

Eggplant,  Fried. ‚Äî Peel  and  cut  the  eggplant  into  thin  slices, 
lay  them  in  a  bowl ;  mix  1  quart  water  with  1  tablespoonful 
salt,  pour  it  over  the  eggplant,  put  a  small  plate  on  top  the  slices 


VEGETABLES.  499 

to  keep  them  under  water,  let  remain  in  the  water  for  several 
hours ;  or,  if  wanted  for  breakfast,  all  night.  When  ready  to  cook, 
dry  the  egg  plant  on  a  towel,  dust  with  flour,  dip  in  beaten  egg, 
and  cover  with  bread  crumbs ;  place  a  frying  pan  with  Y2  table- 
spoonful  butter  over  the  fire,  when  hot  put  in  as  many  slices  as  will 
conveniently  go  in  and  fry  on  both  sides  to  a  fine  golden  color. 
Serve  on  a  hot  dish. 

Eggplant^  Stuffed. ‚Äî Select  3  small  eggplants,  cut  each  one 
in  half,  making  3  incisions  inside  of  each,  drop  into  hot  fat,  and 
fry  2  minutes ;  then  remove,  scoop  out  the  fleshy  part,  leaving  Y3 
inch  thickness  on  the  skin ;  fill  each  with  veal  or  chicken  force- 
meat, sprinkle  over  some  bread  crumbs  and  a  little  melted  butter ; 
lay  in  a  shallow  tin  pan  and  bake  till  light  brown,  then  serve  with 
tomato  sauce  a  I'allemande. 

Beets,  Boiled. ‚Äî Place  1  quart  well- washed  beets  in  a  sauce- 
pan, cover  with  boiling  water,  and  cook  till  done ;  then  drain  and 
peel,  cut  into  quarters,  place  in  a  hot  dish ;  sprinkle  over  the  beets 
1  teaspoonful  salt,  Yg  even  teaspoonful  pepper,  and  2  ounces  melted 
butter,  then  serve.  Another  way  is  to  prepare  and  cook  the  beets 
as  above,  but  adding  last  Ys  cupful  cream. 

Beets  in  Tinegar. ‚Äî Place  1  quart  well-washed  beets  with 
boiling  water  in  a  saucepan  over  the  fire,  boil  till  done  ;  then  drain 
oS  the  water,  remove  the  skin ;  put  the  beets  into  a  jar,  sprinkle 
over  1  teaspoonful  salt,  Ys  teaspoonful  pepper,  1  tablespoonful  sugar, 
add  sufficient  vinegar  to  cover,  then  close  tightly  and  keep  them  in 
a  cool  place.  Beets  prepared  in  this  way  are  very  handy  for  salads 
and  garnishing. 

Beets  sliced  in  Tinegar. ‚Äî Boil  the  beets  as  in  foregoing 
recipe  ;  remove  the  skin,  cut  into  slices,  place  in  a  dish  ;  season 
with  1  teaspoonful  salt,  Y2  teaspoonful  pepper,  1  tablespoonful 
sugar ;  mix  the  seasoning  and  beets  well  together ;  then  mix  IY2 
gill  of  vinegar  with  Ys  gill  of  cold  water,  pour  it  over  the  beets  and 
serve  when  cold.     If  onions  are  liked,  cut  2  medium-sized  onions 


500  VEGETABLES. 

into  thin  slices,  and  lay  them  between  the  beets,  or  chop  them  fine ; 
1  teaspoonful  caraway  seeds  may  be  added  if  liked. 

Beet  Tops,  Boiled. ‚Äî Pick  over  carefully  Y2  peck  of  young 
beet  tops,  wash  them  several  times  in  plenty  of  cold  water ;  place 
them  in  a  saucepan,  cover  with  boiling  water,  add  1  tablespoonful 
salt,  and  boil  till  tender  ;  then  drain  in  colander,  press  out  all  the 
water,  chop  coarsely,  and  place  them  in  a  hot  dish  ;  pour  over  2 
ounces  melted  butter,  season  with  ^2  even  teaspoonful  pepper. 
Serve  with  vinegar  and  boiled  meat. 

Celery  with  Oysters. ‚Äî Place  a  saucepan  with  1  pint  of  fine- 
cut  table  celery  over  the  fire,  cover  with  boiling  water,  and  boil  till 
tender ;  season  with  1  even  teaspoonful  salt,  Y4  teaspoonful  white 
pepper,  mix  1  teaspoonful  cornstarch  or  flour  with  1  ounce  butter, 
add  it  to  the  celery  ;  add  12  oysters  without  their  liquor,  cook  until 
the  oysters  begin  to  ruffle  ;  then  lay  6  slices  of  buttered  toast  on  to  a 
hot  dish,  pour  over  the  celery  preparation,  having  2  oysters  on  each 
piece  of  toast,  and  serve.     If  handy,  add  Ys  giU  of  cream. 

Celery  a  la  Creme. ‚Äî Clean  and  cut  2  heads  of  celery  into 
1-inch  pieces,  then  measure ;  there  should  be  IY3  pint.  Place  the 
celery  in  a  saucepan  over  the  fire,  cover  with  boiling  water,  add 
1  teaspoonful  salt  and  Y4  teaspoonful  pepper,  cook  till  done ;  then 
drain  off  the  water.  Melt  1  ounce  butter  in  a  saucepan,  add  1  tea- 
spoonful flour,  cook  and  stir  3  minutes ;  add  Y2  pint  hot  milk,  Y* 
teaspoonful  salt,  Ys  t¬ªay  leaf,  and  6  whole  peppers,  cook  5  minutes ; 
then  strain  the  sauce  into  a  clean  saucepan,  add  1  gill  of  cream  and 
the  celery,  toss  it  for  a  few  minutes  over  the  fire,  and  serve  on  a  hot 
dish ;  garnish  with  6  bread  croutons. 

Celery-root  Salad. ‚Äî See  my  book  Desserts  and  Salads,  recipe 
871. 

CUCUMBERS,  Etc. 

Cucumber  Fritee. ‚Äî Peel  4  medium-sized  cucumbers,  cut  them 
lengthwise  in  halves,  scoop  out  the  inside,  and  cut  each  half  length- 
wise in  2  pieces ;  place  in  a  saucepan,  cover  with  boiling  water ;  add 


VEGETABLES.  501 

7g  tablespoonf ul  salt  and  1  tablespoonf ul  vinegar,  boil  10  minutes ; 
then  remove  and  lay  them  in  cold  water ;  when  perfectly  cold,  take 
the  cucumbers  from  the  water,  dry  on  a  towel,  and  dust  with  flour  ; 
dip  each  piece  into  beaten  egg  and  roll  in  bread  crumbs.  Melt  1 
tablespoonful  leaf  lard  or  fat  in  a  frying  pan  over  a  moderate  fire, 
when  hot  lay  in  as  many  cucumber  pieces  as  will  conveniently  go 
in  ;  fry  light  brown  on  both  sides  and  well  done ;  remove,  lay  on  a 
hot  dish,  and  fry  the  remainder  the  same  way.  Serve  with  broiled, 
fried,  or  roasted  meat  or  fish. 

Cucumber  Saute. ‚Äî Peel  6  fresh  medium-sized  cucumbers, 
cut  them  lengthwise  in  quarters,  remove  the  seedy  part ;  place  the 
cucumbers  in  a  saucepan,  cover  with  boiling  water,  and  boil  10 
minutes,  then  drain  off  the  water  and  plunge  them  into  cold  water. 
Melt  2  ounces  butter  in  a  saucepan,  drain  and  dry  the  cucumbers 
on  a  towel,  add  them  to  the  butter,  season  with  1  even  teaspoonful 
salt,  Ya  even  teaspoonful  pepper,  Yg  teaspoonful  sugar,  2  gills  of 
white  broth,  and  cook  till  tender.  Melt  Ys  ounce  butter  in  a  small 
saucepan,  add  1  teaspoonful  flour,  cook  and  stir  2  minutes ;  add  Ys 
cup  of  hot  milk,  a  sprinkle  of  salt,  and  cook  a  few  minutes ;  add  the 
sauce  to  the  cucumbers,  cook  3  minutes,  and  serve. 

Cucumber  a  la  Bechamel. ‚Äî Peel  and  cut  6  small  cucumbers 
into  quarters,  remove  the  seedy  part,  and  place  them  with  boiling 
water  in  a  saucepan  over  the  fire,  add  Y2  tablespoonful  salt,  and  boil 
till  tender,  then  drain  and  plunge  them  into  cold  water,  remove  and 
drain  again.  In  the  meantime  melt  1  tablespoonful  butter  in  a 
saucepan,  add  Y2  tablespoonful  flour,  Ys  bay  leaf,  12  whole  peppers, 
stir  and  cook  2  minutes,  add  1  cupful  hot  milk,  Y2  Q^&^  teaspoonful 
salt,  Y4  even  teaspoonful  pepper  and  the  same  of  nutmeg,  1  gill  of 
mushroom  liquor,  cook  5  minutes,  strain  the  sauce  in  a  clean  sauce- 
pan, add  the  cucumbers,  let  them  simmer  a  few  minutes  over  the 
fire ;  then  serve. 

Cucumber,  Stuffed. ‚Äî Peel  6  small  cucumbers,  cut  off  the 
ends,  scoop  out  the  inside  with  a  vegetable  cutter,  place  the  cucum- 


502  VEGETABLES. 

bers  in  a  saucepan,  cover  with  boiling  water,  add  1  tablespoonful 
vinegar  and  1  teaspoonful  salt,  cook  5  minutes,  then  drain,  and  put 
them  in  cold  water.  Prepare  a  chicken  forcemeat  from  Yg  a  breast 
of  chicken ;  dry  the  cucumbers  and  fill  the  inside  with  the  force- 
meat, lay  3  thin  slices  of  pork  in  a  round  pan,  put  the  cucumbers 
on  top  the  pork,  sprinkle  over  1  teaspoonful  salt,  Y^  teaspoonful 
pepper,  add  Y2  pint  of  white  broth,  cover  with  buttered  paper,  and 
bake  in  a  medium-hot  oven  from  20  to  25  minutes.  In  the  mean- 
time fry  in  Yg  ounce  butter  1  fine-chopped  onion,  add  1  bay  leaf 
and  12  whole  peppers,  cook  5  minutes ;  add  Y2  tablespoonful  flour,  stir 
and  cook  3  minutes;  add  Y2  pint  broth  or  soup  stock,  Y2  even  tea- 
spoonful salt,  Y2  gill  of  sherry  or  Madeira  wine,  Y2  teaspoonful  beef 
extract,  cook  5  minutes,  then  strain.  Pour  the  sauce  on  a  hot  dish 
and  dress  the  cucumbers  over  it,  and  serve  with  roasted,  braised, 
fried,  or  broiled  lamb,  mutton,  or  beef. 

Cucumber  a  I'Allemande. ‚Äî Peel  and  cut  4  fresh  cucumbers 
into  halves,  remove  the  insides,  and  cut  each  half  into  pieces  1  inch 
in  size,  place  them  with  boiling  water  in  a  saucepan,  and  cook  30 
minutes ;  drain  and  lay  them  in  cold  water.  Melt  2  ounces  butter 
in  the  saucepan,  drain  the  cucumbers,  add  them  to  the  butter,  sea- 
son with  1  even  teaspoonful  salt  and  Y2  even  teaspoonful  pepper, 
toss  them  a  few  minutes  over  the  fire,  add  1  cupful  chicken  or  veal 
broth,  cook  until  the  cucumbers  are  done,  which  will  take  about  20 
minutes,  then  mix  the  yolks  of  2  eggs  with  Y2  cupful  cream,  add 
them  to  the  cucumbers,  stir  them  gently  for  3  minutes  over  the  fire, 
without  letting  them  boil,  add  last  1  teaspoonful  fine-chopped 
parsley.     Serve  on  a  hot  dish  with  roasted  lamb. 

Endives  with  Cream. ‚Äî Procure  about  4  heads  of  endives 
(chicory),  remove  the  outer  leaves,  wash  several  times  in  cold 
water ;  place  the  endives  in  a  saucepan,  cover  with  boiling  water, 
add  Y2  tablespoonful  salt,  and  boil  about  10  minutes ;  drain  on  a 
sieve,  rinse  off  with  boiling  water,  return  to  saucepan,  cover  with 
boiling  water,  boil  5  minutes,  then  drain ;  lay  the  endives  for  a 


VEGETABLES.  503 

few  minutes  in  cold  water,  drain  and  press  out  dry,  chop  fine,  and 
place  it  with  2  ounces  melted  butter  in  a  saucepan  over  the  fire ; 
stir  often  and  cook  10  minutes ;  season  with  1  teaspoonful  salt,  Yg 
even  teaspoonful  pepper,  y^  teaspoonful  nutmeg,  and  the  same  of 
sugar ;  sprinkle  over  Yg  tablespoonf  ul  flour,  mix  well  together,  add 
%  cupful  cream  or  milk,  stir  and  cook  2  minutes,  then  serve. 

Sorrel  with  Cream. ‚Äî Pick  over  and  wash  several  times  in 
cold  water  Y2  peck  of  sorrels,  chop  very  fine  with  1  head  of  lettuce ; 
place  the  sorrels  in  a  saucepan  over  the  fire,  cover  and  cook  about 
10  minutes ;  add  2  ounces  butter,  season  with  1  teaspoonful  salt,  Y2 
even  teaspoonful  pepper,  cook  until  done ;  then  mix  Y*  cupful 
cream  with  the  yolks  of  2  eggs,  add  it  to  the  sorrels,  stir  for  a  few 
minutes,  and  serve  with  boiled  or  roasted  meat. 

Lettuce,  Stuffed. ‚Äî Eemove  the  outer  leaves  from  6  round 
heads  of  lettuce,  wash  in  cold  water,  place  in  a  saucepan,  cover  with 
boiling  water,  and  cook  5  minutes ;  drain  and  cool  in  cold  water, 
remove  and  drain  again  ;  then  lay  1-  tablespoonful  forcemeat  either 
of  veal  or  sausage  meat  on  top  of  each  head  of  lettuce,  roll  them 
up,  and  tie  with  a  string  into  a  round  shape ;  lay  3  thin  slices  of 
larding  pork  in  a  round  pan  with  the  lettuce  on  top,  add  Yg  pint  of 
white  broth  ;  sprinkle  over  Ys  teaspoonful  salt,  Y4  teaspoonful  white 
pepper,  cover  with  buttered  paper,  place  in  the  oven,  and  bake  till 
done,  about  20  minutes.  In  the  meantime  melt  1  tablespoonful 
butter,  add  1  tablespoonful  fine-chopped  onion,  Y2  t)ay  leaf,  6  whole 
peppers,  cook  5  minutes  ;  add  Yg  tablespoonful  flour,  stir  and  cook  2 
minutes  ;  lay  the  lettuce  on  a  hot  dish,  add  the  gravy  from  the  lettuce 
to  the  sauce  and  sufficient  broth  to  make  a  creamy  sauce,  then  Ys 
teaspoonful  beef  extract,  cook  5  minutes.  Season  with  salt  and 
pepper  to  taste,  add  Y2  tablespoonful  lemon  juice  or  a  little  Madeira 
wine,  cook  2  minutes,  then  strain  ;  remove  the  strings  from  the 
lettuce,  pour  the  sauce  over,  and  serve  with  braised  beef  or  mut- 
ton. The  lettuce  may  be  prepared  in  the  same  way,  omitting  the 
forcemeat. 


504  VEGETABLES. 

OYSTER  PLANT,  PARSNIP,  ARTICHOKE,  Etc. 

Oyster  Plant,  Boiled. ‚Äî Scrape  and  wash  1  bunch  of  oyster 
plant,  drop  them  as  soon  as  one  is  cleaned  into  1  quart  of  cold  water  to 
which  y2  gill  of  vinegar  has  been  added  ;  when  they  are  all  cleaned 
tie  into  3  bundles,  cut  all  of  an  even  size.  Place  a  saucepan  with  3 
pints  of  boiling  water  over  the  fire,  mix  1  tablespoonf  ul  flour  with 
Ys  cupful  cold  water,  stir  it  into  the  boiling  water ;  add  the  juice 
of  Ya  lemon,  Ys  tablespoonful  salt,  and  Ys  ounce  of  butter,  put  in  the 
oyster  plant,  cook  till  tender.  When  done  remove  from  the  sauce- 
pan, cut  each  plant  in  half,  lay  in  a  hot  dish,  and  cover  with  the  fol- 
lowing sauce  :  Melt  1  tablespoonful  butter,  add  1  tablespoonful  flour, 
6  whole  peppers,  and  Y2  bay  leaf,  stir  and  cook  3  minutes  ;  add  IY2 
cupful  milk  (if  handy,  1  gill  of  mushroom  liquor),  1  even  teaspoon- 
ful  salt,  Ys  teaspoonful  pepper,  cook  5  minutes ;  then  strain  the 
sauce  over  the  oyster  plant  and  serve. 

Oyster  Plant,  Fried. ‚Äî Clean,  wash,  and  boil  1  bunch  of  oyster 
plant  the  same  as  in  foregoing  recipe.  When  cooked  remove  and 
wipe  dry,  dust  with  flour,  dip  into  beaten  egg,  roll  in  fine  sifted 
bread  crumbs,  and  fry  light  brown  in  hot  fat  to  a  fine  golden 
color. 

Oyster  Plant  Frite. ‚Äî Prepare  and  boil  1  bunch  of  oyster 
plant  as  in  foregoing  recipe.  Eemove  the  cooked  oyster  plant  and 
dry  on  a  towel.  Then  prepare  a  batter ;  mix  the  yolks  of  2  eggs 
with  Y2  cupful  beer,  1  teaspoonful  butter,  4  tablespoonfuls  flour,  Y* 
teaspoonful  salt,  and  lastly  the  whites  beaten  to  a  stiff  froth  ;  mix 
all  well  together.  Have  a  deep  pan  or  kettle  with  hot  fat  over  the 
fire,  dip  the  oyster  plants  in  the  batter,  drop  into  the  hot  fat,  not 
too  many  at  one  time,  and  fry  light  brown ;  then  remove  with  a 
skimmer  and  lay  for  a  few  minutes  on  paper.  Dress  them  on  a  hot 
dish  and  serve  with  roasted,  broiled,  or  fried  meat. 

Parsnips,  Boiled  and  Fried. ‚Äî Clean  and  wash  3  medium-sized 
parsnips,  place  them  in  a  saucepan,  cover  with  boiling  water,  and 


VEGETABLES.  505 

boil  till  done  ;  then  remove  from  the  water,  cut  them  lengthwise 
into  thick  slices.  Place  a  frying  pan  with  1  tablespoonf ul  drippings 
over  the  fire  ;  as  soon  as  hot  put  iu  the  parsnips  and  fry  light  brown 
on  both  sides,  then  serve.  Another  way  is  to  lay  the  parsnips  after 
they  have  been  boiled  in  the  pan  with  roast  meat  and  roast  to  a  fine 
golden  color. 

Artichokes  au  Naturel. ‚Äî Procure  6  fresh  artichokes,  remove 
the  lower  outer  leaves,  cut  the  tips  from  the  upper  ones,  trim  the 
bottoms  neatly,  wash  in  cold  water,  rub  over  each  a  little  lemon 
juice,  and  lay  in  cold  water.  Forty  minutes  befoi'e  serving,  put 
them  in  a  saucepan  of  boiling  water,  add  Yg  tablespoonful  salt  and 
the  juice  of  1  lemon,  cover  and  cook  till  tender,  or  until  the  leaves 
detach  easily.  Then  drain  the  artichokes,  remove  the  chokes  in 
center,  dress  them  upside  down  on  a  napkin,  and  serve  with  melted 
butter,  butter,  Hollandaise,  or  vinaigrette  sauce. 

Artichokes  a  la  Barigoule. ‚Äî Remove  all  the  lower  hard 
leaves  from  6  fresh  artichokes,  cut  the  points  from  the  remaining 
leaves,  remove  the  chokes  with  a  vegetable  borer ;  rub  over  with 
lemon  juice,  and  lay  in  cold  water.  Mix  1  tablespoonful  fine- 
minced  larding  pork  with  1  gill  of  fine-chopped  mushrooms,  1  tea- 
spoonful  fine-chopped  shallots,  the  same  of  fine-chopped  parsley,  1 
tablespoonful  bread  crumbs,  a  little  nutmeg,  Yg  even  teaspoonf ul  salt, 
Y4  even  teaspoonful  pepper ;  mix  all  together.  Drain  the  artichokes 
and  fill  them  with  the  preparation  ;  tie  up  with  a  string.  Cover  the 
bottom  of  a  round  pan,  thickly  buttered,  with  3  thin  slices  of  larding 
pork,  2  slices  of  carrot,  and  1  sliced  onion  ;  place  the  artichokes  on 
top  of  this ;  add  1  bay  leaf,  a  small  bouquet,  1  gill  of  white  broth,  and 
Y2  gill  Madeira  wine.  Lay  a  small,  thin  slice  of  pork  over  each  arti- 
choke, cover  with  buttered  paper,  set  the  pan  in  a  hot  oven  and  bake 
till  done,  basting  frequently,  which  will  take  from  40  to  50  minutes. 
When  ready  to  serve  remove  the  artichokes,  take  off  the  strings,  and 
dress  them  on  a  hot  dish  ;  remove  all  the  fat  from  gravy,  add  Ys 
tablespoonful  beef  extract  and  a  little  broth ;  let  boil  2  minutes ; 


506  VEGETABLES. 

then  strain,  and  either  pour  it  over  the  artichokes  or  serve  in  a  sepa- 
rate dish. 

Artichokes  Saute. ‚Äî Procure  Vg  dozen  fresh  artichokes,  re- 
move the  lower  leaves,  cut  the  points  from  the  remaining  leaves, 
pare  the  bottom  neatly.  Cut  the  artichokes  into  quarters,  remove 
the  choke  from  the  center,  and  lay  the  quarters  in  boiling  water, 
with  1  tablespoonf ul  white  vinegar  and  1  tablespoonf ul  salt ;  boil  a 
few  minutes,  drain  and  cool  in  cold  water.  Forty  minutes  before 
serving  drain  the  artichokes,  melt  3  ounces  butter  in  a  saucepan,  put 
in  tlie  artichokes,  season  with  1  teaspoonful  salt  and  Y4  teaspoonful 
pepper ;  cover  and  cook  10  minutes ;  then  add  1  gill  of  white  broth 
and  IY3  gill  of  Ehine  wine,  cover  and  cook  till  done.  Dress  the 
artichokes  on  a  hot  dish,  remove  the  fat  from  gravy,  add  1  table- 
spoonful  lemon  juice  to  the  gravy,  Y2  teaspoonful  beef  extract; 
cook  a  few  minutes,  then  strain ;  add  a  small  piece  of  fresh  butter, 
and  pour  it  over  the  artichokes. 

Artichoke  Bottoms,  Stuffed. ‚Äî Eemove  the  leaves  from  6 
fresh  artichokes,  place  the  artichokes  in  a  saucepan  of  boiling 
water,  add  1  tablespoonful  vinegar  and  72  tablespoonful  salt,  cook 
until  all  the  leaves  can  be  drawn  out  easily ;  then  remove  and  cool 
in  cold  water.  Drain  and  remove  the  chokes,  and  fill  them  with  the 
following  forcemeat:  Melt  1  ounce  butter  in  a  saucepan,  add  Yg 
tablespoonful  fine-chopped  white  onion  or  shallot,  cook  3  minutes ; 
add  Ys  gill  fine-chopped  mushrooms,  Ys  gi^l  fine-chopped  veal  or 
chicken  meat,  Y2  teaspoonful  chopped  parsley,  and  season  with  salt 
and  pepper,  stir  and  cook  5  minutes ;  then  remove,  add  Y2  table- 
spoonful bread  crumbs ;  fill  the  artichokes,  sprinkle  over  some 
bread  crumbs,  set  in  a  buttered  pan,  pour  over  a  little  melted 
butter,  add  Y2  gill  white  broth  ;  put  the  pan  in  a  medium-hot 
oven,  and  bake  15  minutes,  basting  frequently.  Serve  the  arti- 
chokes on  a  hot  dish.  Melt  Y2  tablespoonful  butter,  add  Y2  tea- 
spoonful flour,  stir  and  cook  a  few  minutes ;  add  the  gravy  from  the 
artichokes  and  a  little  beef  extract  and  bouillon :  cook  a  few  min- 


VEGETABLES.  507 

utes  ;  then  strain,  and  serve  with,  the  artichokes.    Or  pour  the  gravy 
on  the  dish  and  dress  the  artichokes  over  it. 


TRUFFLES. 

How  and  where  they  groiu. 

Truffles  are  an  underground  fungi  used  as  food,  those  of  com- 
merce belonging  to  the  genus  tuier,  while  others  which  bear  the 
name  are  of  related  but  different  genera,  their  name  being  derived 
from  the  Latin  terra  tuber.  They  are  somewhat  oblong  or  globose, 
varying  from  two  ounces  to  several  pounds  in  weight,  according  to  spe- 
cies and  locality ;  there  are  white  kinds,  but  the  surface  is  generally 
black  or  brownish  and  roughened  with  warty  protuberances.  When 
cut  open,  they  present  a  variously  marbled  appearance.  Truffles  are 
generally  found  in  calcareous  soils  and  always  in  woods  of  oak  or 
beech ;  they  are  found  in  many  parts  of  England  and  in  some  parts 
of  Germany,  but  more  abundantly  on  the  Continent  and  in  Africa. 
The  more  highly  prized  French  truffles  are  the  melanosporum  and 
the  Piedmontese,  which  bring  the  highest  price.  The  existence  of 
truffles  in  the  United  States  is  very  doubtful.  Truffles  have  an 
odor  and  flavor  peculiarly  their  own,  and  though  sometimes  cooked 
as  a  separate  dish,  they  are  most  generally  used  for  communicating 
their  flavor  to  meats  and  sauces.  The  truffles  used  in  this  country 
are  imported  in  sealed  tin  cans.  The  fresh  truffles  are  carefully 
selected  (those  with  a  musty  odor  being  rejected),  washed  in  cold 
water  with  a  brush  until  perfectly  clean,  then  pared  very  thin  or 
boiled  without  peeling. 

How  to  Prepare. ‚Äî Place  the  cleaned  truffles  in  a  saucepan 
with  enough  rich  stock  to  nearly  cover  them,  add  a  glass  of  claret 
or  Madeira  wine,  some  cloves,  a  few  whole  peppers,  a  small  piece  of 
ham,  1  carrot,  1  or  2  onions,  a  bouquet,  and  the  necessary  salt ;  boil 
from  Yj  hour  to  40  minutes.  They  may  also  be  boiled  in  claret  with 
a  little  glaze. 
33 


508  VEGETABLES. 

Truffles  au  Naturel. ‚Äî Wrap  the  well-cleaned  truffles  in  but- 
tered paper  and  bake  in  a  hot  oven  about  50  minutes.  In  serving, 
remove  the  paper  and  arrange  them  on  a  hot  napkin. 

Truffles  a  I'ltalienne. ‚Äî Place  in  a  small  saucepan  1  table- 
spoonful  butter,  1  fine-minced  shallot,  1  teaspoonful  flour,  fry  for- 
a  minute ;  then  add  Yg  gill  of  brown  stock,  a  little  Cayenne  pep- 
per, and  Y2  teaspoonful  salt ;  cut  into  small  slices  8  truffles,  add 
them  to  the  contents  in  the  saucepan,  stir  over  the  fire  about  10 
minutes ;  add  a  teaspoonful  fine-minced  parsley,  leave  it  1  minute 
longer  over  the  fire,  add  the  juice  of  Yg  lemon,  and  serve.  Or  place 
the  truffle  slices  over  the  fire  with  1  tablespoonful  butter,  1  minced 
shallot,  some  parsley,  salt  and  pepper  to  taste ;  stir  for  10  minutes 
over  the  fire.  Pour  off  some  of  the  butter,  add  a  piece  of  fresh 
butter,  a  few  tablespoonfuls  Spanish  sauce,  the  juice  of  Y2  lemon, 
and  a  little  Cayenne  pepper ;  let  the  whole  come  to  a  boil,  then  serve. 

MUSHROOMS. 

Hoiu  and  ivhere  they  grow. 

Mushrooms  grow  wild  in  Europe  and  America,  and  a  majority 
of  the  edible  species  are  common  to  both  continents.  The  edible 
fungus  called  mushroom  is  in  all  cases  to  be  distinguished  by  its 
white,  firm,  solid  stem,  its  fleshy  cap,  and  its  pink  gills ;  when  the 
cap  begins  to  expand,  the  gills  are  pale,  but  they  soon  become  pink, 
and  on  this  account  it  is  in  some  parts  of  this  country  known  as  the 
pink-gill.  When  older  the  gills  become  chocolate-colored,  then 
tawny  black,  in  which  state  they  are  regarded  as  unflt  for  food.  It 
has  a  pleasant  and  characteristic  odor,  by  which  those  familiar  with 
it  can  distinguish  the  plant.  This  species  is  found  in  pastures,  in 
some  years  in  great  abundance.  Its  proper  season  is  September  and 
October,  when  our  markets  are  abundantly  supplied  from  the  wild 
growth ;  at  other  times  cultivated  mushrooms  are  to  be  had,  but  at 
very  high  prices.  Mushrooms  resemble  flesh  in  flavor  more  nearly 
than  do  any  other  vegetable.     They  are  used  to  form  a  dish  by 


VEGETABLES.  509 

themselves,  either  stewed,  broiled,  or  baked,  and  are  largely  em- 
ployed to  flavor  other  dishes,  entering  into  a  great  variety  of  stews, 
fricassees,  and  sauces ;  many  are  consumed  in  the  preparation  of 
catsup,  which  is  the  juice  of  the  mushroom  extracted  by  sprinkling 
them  with  salt  and  flavoring  with  spices.  The  general  testimony  is 
that  mushrooms  are  highly  nutritious,  but  difficult  of  digestion,  and 
unsuited  to  persons  with  delicate  stomachs. 

Mushrooms,  Baked. ‚Äî Cut  off  a  portion  of  the  stalks  of  12 
medium-sized  mushrooms,  peel  the  tops,  and  wipe  the  mushrooms 
carefully  with  a  piece  of  flannel  and  a  little  fine  salt ;  wipe  dry.  Put 
them  into  a  baking  dish  with  a  small  piece  of  butter  placed  on  each 
mushroom,  sprinkle  over  a  little  white  pepper,  and  bake  20  minutes. 
Serve  on  a  hot  dish,  piled  up  high  in  the  center,  with  the  sauce 
poured  around. 

Mushrooms,  pickled. ‚Äî Choose  for  pickling  only  the  small 
button  mushrooms,  rub  off  the  skin  with  a  piece  of  cloth  and  salt, 
cut  the  stalks  off,  put  them  in  a  saucepan  over  the  fire ;  add  to  each 
quart  of  mushrooms  Y^  teaspoonful  ground  mace,  Yg  even  teaspoon- 
ful  ground  white  pepper,  1  even  teaspoonful  salt;  toss  them  well 
over  a  clear  fire  until  the  liquor  flows,  and  keep  them  there  until  they 
are  all  dried  up  again.  Then  add  enough  vinegar  to  cover  them,  1 
onion,  and  1  teaspoonful  sugar,  boil  a  few  minutes ;  put  the  mush- 
rooms in  small  glass  jars.  When  cold  screw  them  up  tightly  or 
paste  paper  over  them ;  keep  in  dry  places  for  further  use.  These 
are  nice  for  sauces  or  ragouts. 

Mushrooms  preserved  in  Butter. ‚Äî Peel  1  quart  of  nice 
white  small  button  mushrooms,  put  them  into  cold  water  with  a 
little  lemon  juice  ;  take  out  and  dry  with  a  clean  napkin.  Place  in 
a  saucepan  over  the  fire  with  Ys  pound  of  butter  and  1  gill  of  water, 
simmer  15  minutes ;  put  them  with  their  juice  into  glass  jars 
screwed  down  tightly ;  set  in  a  vessel  of  cold  water  over  the  fire  to 
boil  1  hour,     (If  there  should  not  be  juice  enough  to  cover  the 


510  VEGETABLES. 

mushrooms  in  the  jars,  more  melted  butter  must  be  added.)     When 
opened  in  winter  the  butter  can  be  used  for  sauce. 

Mushrooms,  Broiled. ‚Äî Select  1  dozen  medium-sized  fresh 
mushrooms,  cut  oil  a  portion  from  the  stalk,  peel  the  top,  and  rub 
off  with  a  little  fine  salt ;  drop  as  soon  as  cleaned  into  cold  salted 
water  with  the  juice  of  1  lemon ;  15  minutes  before  serving  lift  the 
mushrooms  out  of  the  water,  wipe  dry  ;  season  with  1  even  teaspoon- 
f ul  salt  and  Yg  even  teaspoonful  pepper ;  brush  each  one  over  with 
melted  butter,  lay  on  a  hot  broiler,  and  broil  over  a  moderate  clear 
fire  5  minutes  on  each  side,  turning  them  twice  while  cooking.  Lay 
6  small  slices  of  buttered  toast  on  a  hot  dish  ;  dress  2  mushrooms 
over  each  piece  of  toast,  spread  1  ounce  maitre  d'hotel  butter  over 
the  mushrooms,  and  serve. 

Mushroom  Bouchees. ‚Äî Melt  1  ounce  butter  in  a  saucepan ; 
add  Yg  tablespoonf ul  flour,  stir,  and  cook  3  minutes ;  add  Yg  cupful 
mushroom  liquor,  Y2  cupful  white  broth,  Y2  teaspoonful  beef  extract, 
1  even  teaspoonful  salt,  Y4  even  teaspoonful  white  pepper,  cook  2 
minutes ;  then  add  12  canued  mushrooms,  cook  slowly  15  minutes  ; 
mix  the  yolk  of  1  egg  with  Y2  gi^l  of  cream,  add  it  to  the  mush- 
rooms ;  draw  the  saucepan  to  side  of  stove,  not  allowing  it  to  boil, 
with  the  yolk ;  add  last  Ys  tablespoonful  lemon  juice.  Have  ready 
6  patty  cases  (bouch6es),  heat  them  in  the  oven,  fill  them  with  the 
mushrooms,  and  serve  at  once.  (For  Bouchees  see  Jelly  Tarts,  in 
my  book  Desserts  and  Salads,  recipe  711.) 

Mushrooms  preserved  in  Water. ‚Äî The  fresh  small  button 
mushrooms  are  rubbed  off  with  a  piece  of  flannel  and  salt,  washed 
in  cold  water,  the  ends  of  the  stalks  cut  off,  and  the  mushrooms 
dropped  into  cold  water,  to  which  some  lemon  juice  has  been 
added ;  when  all  are  cleaned  take  them  out,  place  over  the  fire  in  a 
preserve  kettle  with  enough  water  to  cover,  boil  5  minutes.  Fill  in 
small  glass  jars,  screw  tightly,  set  the  jars  in  a  vessel  of  cold  water 
over  the  fire,  and  boil  Y4  hour ;  then  remove,  and  keep  them  in  a 
cool  place. 


VEGETABLES.  511 

Mushroom  Saute. ‚Äî Cut  off  the  ends  of  the  stalk  from  IY2 
pint  fresh  button  mushrooms,  put  them  into  a  dish  of  water  with  a 
little  lemon  juice.  Then  take  them  out  of  the  water,  and  place  with 
4  ounces  butter  in  a  saucepan  over  the  fire ;  add  1  even  tablespoonful 
salt,  1  even  teaspoonful  white  pepper,  and  the  juice  of  1  lemon  ; 
cover,  and  stew  slowly  20  minutes ;  add  1  tablespoonful  flour,  a 
little  nutmeg,  and  gradually  sufficient  cream  or  milk  to  make  the 
sauce  of  a  proper  consistence,  and  serve. 

Mushrooms  in  Spanish  Sauce.‚Äî Cut  nearly  all  the  stalks 
away  from  1  pint  of  small  mushroom  buttons,  peel  the  tops,  or  rub 
them  off  with  salt ;  place  in  saucepan  with  Y2  pint  Spanish  sauce 
over  the  fire ;  simmer  slowly  20  minutes ;  season  with  a  little 
Cayenne  pepper,  nutmeg,  and  salt,  and  serve  very  hot. 

Mushrooms,  Stewed. ‚Äî Drain  off  the  liquor  from  1  can  of 
mushrooms,  place  the  mushrooms  with  2  ounces  butter  over  the 
fire  ;  season  with  Yg  teaspoonful  salt,  Y4  teaspoonful  pepper,  and  the 
juice  of  1  lemon ;  cover,  and  stew  slowly  Ys  tour  ;  then  add  ^j^  table- 
spoonful flour,  shake  the  saucepan  for  a  few  minutes,  add  the  mush- 
room liquor,  Ys  cupful  cream,  boil  5  minutes ;  add  Ys  teaspoonful 
grated  nutmeg,  and  serve  over  6  slices  of  toast. 

Mushroom  Catsup. ‚Äî Clean  1  peck  of  full-grown  mushrooms, 
put  them  in  a  stone  jar  with  Ys  pound  salt  sprinkled  between  them. 
Let  stand  for  3  hours,  then  break  up  with  the  hand,  and  put  in  a 
cool  place  for  3  days,  stirring  occasionally,  washing  well,  to  extract 
as  much  juice  as  possible.  Then  measure  the  quantity  of  liquor 
without  straining  and  add  to  each  quart  Ys  ounce  of  Cayenne  pep- 
per, Yz  ounce  of  allspice,  Y2  ounce  ginger,  Y2  teaspoonful  mace. 
Put  all  in  a  stone  jar,  cover  closely,  set  it  in  a  kettle  of  boiling 
water,  place  over  the  fire,  and  boil  3  hours.  Pour  the  liquor  into  a 
clean  saucepan,  boil  slowly  20  minutes  more,  then  into  a  jar,  and 
let  stand  till  next  day.  Strain  through  a  fine  cloth,  add  to  each 
pint  of  catsup  1  tablespoonful  brandy,  fill  into  small  bottles,  cork 


512  VEGETABLES. 

and  seal  tightly,  and  set  in  a  cool  place  for  further  use.    This  catsup 
is  used  for  flavoring  sauces. 

ONIONS. 

Onion  Farci. ‚Äî Peel  6  large  white  Spanish  onions,  scoop  out 
the  center  with  a  vegetable  cutter,  place  them  in  a  saucepan,  cover 
with  boiling  water,  cook  5  minutes ;  remove  and  lay  them  for  a 
few  minutes  in  cold'  water.  Prepare  a  veal  or  chicken  forcemeat, 
drain  the  onions,  and  fill  them  with  the  forcemeat.  Cover  the  bot- 
tom of  a  deep  round  pan  with  thin  slices  of  larding  pork,  lay  the 
onions  side  by  side  on  top  the  pork,  add  1  pint  of  chicken  or  veal 
broth,  cover  them  with  buttered  paper,  place  the  pan  in  the  oven, 
and  bake,  basting  frequently,  till  done.  Serve  the  onions  on  a  hot 
dish,  remove  the  fat  from  the  gravy,  add  Yg  teaspoonful  beef  extract 
and  a  small  piece  of  butter,  cook  a  few  minutes  ;  then  strain,  pour 
the  gravy  over  the  onions,  and  serve. 

Creamed  Onions. ‚Äî Peel  1  quart  medium-sized  white  onions, 
place  them  in  a  saucepan,  cover  with  boiling  water,  add  1  teaspoon- 
ful sugar,  boil  till  nearly  done ;  add  1  teaspoonful  salt,  boil  a  few 
minutes  longer,  then  drain  them  in  a  colander.  In  the  meantime 
melt  1  ounce  butter,  add  Yg  tablespoonful  flour,  stir  and  cook  2 
minutes ;  add  Yg  pi^t  of  hot  milk,  cook  2  minutes ;  season  with  Y4 
teaspoonful  white  pepper  and  a  sprinkle  of  salt,  put  the  onions  in  a 
hot  dish,  and  pour  the  sauce  over  it. 

Glazed  Onions. ‚Äî Peel  1  pint  of  small  white  onions,  place  them 
in  a  round  pan,  pour  over  1  ounce  melted  butter,  and  dust  with  1 
tablespoonful  powdered  sugar  ;  place  the  pan  in  a  medium-hot  oven 
and  bake  to  a  fine  golden  color,  remove,  and  use  them  for  gar- 
nishing. 

Onions,  Boiled. ‚Äî Peel  1  pint  of  small  white  onions,  place  them 
in  a  saucepan  over  the  fire,  cover  with  boiling  water,  add  Ys  tea- 
spoonful salt,  boil  10  minutes  ;  then  drain  them  on  a  sieve,  return 


VEGETABLES.  513 

the  onions  to  the  saucepan,  add  1  ounce  butter,  toss  them  3  min- 
utes over  the  fire,  then  use  for  garnishing. 

Onion  Saute. ‚Äî Peel  1  quart  white  onions  the  size  of  a  walnut 
(have  them  of  an  equal  size),  place  in  a  saucepan,  cover  with  boiling 
water,  add  1  teaspoonful  sugar,  boil  until  nearly  done ;  then  add  1 
teaspoonf  ul  salt,  draw  the  saucepan  to  side  of  stove,  let  stand  5  min- 
utes ;  drain  them  in  a  colander,  return  the  onions  to  the  saucepan, 
add  1  ounce  butter,  toss  them  a  few  minutes  over  the  fire,  serve  in  a 
hot  dish,  pour  2  tablespoonfuls  cream  over  them. 

Onions^  Fried. ‚Äî Cut  4  medium-sized  Spanish  or  Bermuda 
onions  into  slices,  season  them  with  1  even  teaspoonful  salt,  Ys  even 
teaspoonful  pepper  equally  distributed  ;  mix  1  well-beaten  egg  with 
3  tablespoonfuls  milk,  dip  the  onions  in  the  egg  and  milk,  roll  them 
in  flour,  drop  them  into  hot  lard,  and  fry  light  brown  ;  then  remove, 
lay  them  for  a  few  minutes  on  paper ;  when  all  are  fried  in  this 
way,  serve  them  on  a  hot  dish  with  broiled  or  fried  meat. 

Baked  Onions. ‚Äî Peel  6  medium-sized  large  Spanish  onions, 
place  them  in  a  saucepan  over  the  fire,  cover  with  boiling  water,  and 
cook  10  minutes  ;  remove  and  cool  them  in  cold  water.  Drain  and 
dry  the  onions,  season  with  1  even  tablespoonf  ul  salt  and  Yg  even  tea- 
spoonful pepper,  place  in  a  deep  round  pan  not  much  larger  than 
will  hold  the  onions  ;  pour  Y2  pint  of  boiling  milk  in  the  pan,  add 
1  ounce  butter,  cover  the  onions  with  buttered  paper,  and  bake  in  a 
medium-hot  oven  till  done,  basting  frequently.  Dress  the  onions 
on  a  hot  dish  and  serve  with  roasted  meat,  turkey,  ducks,  or  chickens. 

PUEEES,  Etc. 
Puree  of  Dried  Peas. ‚Äî Soak  1  quart  of  well- washed  dried 
peas  in  cold  water,  drain  and  place  in  a  saucepan  over  the  fire,  cover 
with  cold  water,  add  1  teaspoonful  salt,  and  boil  till  tender ;  drain 
off  all  the  water,  rub  the  peas  through  a  sieve,  mix  them  with  1 
ounce  butter,  and  if  necessary  add  more  salt.  Pea  puree  is  used 
for  pea  soup ;  it  is  also  served  with  sauei'kraut. 


514  VEGETABLES. 

Puree  of  Lentils,  Stewed. ‚Äî Place  1  quart  well- washed  lentils 
in  a  saucepan  over  the  fire,  cover  with  cold  water,  add  1  teaspoon- 
f ul  salt,  and  cook  till  tender ;  then  drain  in  a  sieve.  Fry  4  ounces 
fine-cut  larding  pork  light  brown,  add  1  gill  fine-chopped  onion, 
cook  5  minutes ;  add  Yg  tablespoonf  ul  flour,  stir  and  cook  3  min- 
utes ;  add  Yg  cupful  vinegar  and  1  cupful  soup  stock,  cook  5  min- 
utes ;  season  with  Y4  teaspoonful  pepper,  1  teaspoonful  sugar,  and 
Ys  teaspoonful  salt,  add  the  lentils,  toss  them  for  a  few  minutes, 
and  serve. 

Puree  of  Chestnuts. ‚Äî Place  1  pound  large  chestnuts  in  a 
saucepan,  cover  with  cold  water,  boil  about  15  minutes ;  drain,  peel, 
and  remove  the  skin  ;  return  in  a  clean  saucepan  to  the  fire,  cover 
with  1  quart  chicken  or  veal  broth,  add  Y2  teaspoonful  white  pepper, 
1  teaspoonful  salt,  2  ounces  butter,  and  1  teaspoonful  sugar ;  cook 
until  the  chestnuts  are  soft,  about  40  minutes ;  then  rub  them 
through  a  sieve,  and  use.  Another  way  is  to  add  1  quart  of  milk 
to  the  chestnuts  in  place  of  broth. 

Chestnut  a  I'Espagnole. ‚Äî Boil  1  pound  of  chestnuts  in  water 
as  in  foregoing  recipe  ;  skin,  peel,  and  return  them  in  saucepan  to 
the  fire,  cover  with  1  quart  of  soup  stock ;  add  Y2  tablespoonful 
sugar,  and  cook  till  tender.  Melt  1  tablespoonful  butter,  add  Y2  table- 
spoonful  flour,  stir  and  cook  2  minutes ;  add  Y2  bay  leaf,  12  whole 
peppers,  1  even  teaspoonful  salt,  Y2  piiit  stock,  Y2  teaspoonful  beef 
extract,  cook  5  minutes  (if  too  thick  add  a  little  more  stock) ; 
strain  the  sauce  into  a  clean  saucepan,  drain  the  chestnuts,  put 
them  in  the  sauce,  and  toss  for  2  minutes  over  the  fire  ;  then 
ersve. 

Chestnut  Saute  in  Butter. ‚Äî Boil  1  pound  of  chestnuts  15 
minutes  in  water ;  drain,  peel,  skin,  and  return  them  to  the  fire, 
cover  with  water ;  add  1  teaspoonful  sugar,  and  boil  till  tender, 
then  drain.  Melt  Y2  ounce  butter  in  a  saucepan,  add  the  chest- 
nuts, cook  10  minutes ;  toss  them  well,  and  serve  as  a  garnish. 


VEGETABLES.  515 

Chestnut  Puree  a  la  Creme.‚Äî Boil  1  pound  of  large  chest- 
nuts in  water  15  minutes  ;  peel  and  skin  them,  wash  in  cold  water ; 
place  with  1  quart  milk  over  the  fire,  add  Yg  tablespoonful  sugar, 
and  boil  till  tender ;  then  rub  them  through  a  sieve,  and  use  for 
stuffing  pigeons,  partridges,  and  birds.  This  puree  is  also  largely- 
used  for  frozen  puddings. 


MACARONI  AND  NUDLES. 

Macaroni  au  Gratin. ‚Äî Break  7g  pound  Italian  macaroni  into 
pieces,  place  them  in  a  saucepan,  cover  with  boiling  water,  add  Ya 
tablespoonful  salt,  and  boil  30  to  35  minutes ;  then  drain  ;  grate  4 
ounces  Parmesan  or  Swiss  cheese,  return  the  macaroni  to  the  sauce- 
pan, add  half  the  cheese,  2  ounces  butter,  and  Yg  even  teaspoonful 
white  pepper ;  toss  the  saucepan  for  a  few  minutes  over  the  fire ; 
mix  well  together,  then  put  the  macaroni  into  a  dish,  sprinkle  the 
remaining  cheese,  and  pour  Yg  ounce  melted  butter  over  the  top  ; 
place  the  dish  in  a  hot  oven,  and  bake  till  light  brown,  about  10 
minutes  ;  then  serve  in  the  same  dish. 

Croquettes  of  Macaroni. ‚Äî Boil  in  a  saucepan  4  ounces  Italian 
macaroni  in  salted  water  30  minutes,  then  drain  on  a  sieve  ;  return 
the  macaroni  to  saucepan,  add  Ya  tablespoonful  butter,  4  table- 
spoonfuls  grated  cheese,  and  3  ounces  fine-cut  ham  or  beef  tongue  ; 
mix  all  together.  Then  spread  the  preparation  in  a  shallow  buttered 
pan,  cover  with  buttered  paper,  put  a  light  weight  on  top,  and  set 
aside  to  cool.  Thirty  minutes  before  serving,  form  the  mixture 
into  cork-shaped  croquettes,  dip  into  beaten  egg,  and  roll  in  fresh 
grated  bread  crumbs  ;  fry  in  hot  fat  to  a  delicate  brown.  Lay  for  a 
few  minutes  on  paper,  then  dress  on  a  hot  dish;  garnish  with  fried 
parsley,  and  serve  with  tomato  sauce.  Croquettes  of  spaghetti  and 
nudles  are  prepared  in  the  same  way. 

Petites  Croustades  of  Spaghetti. ‚Äî Break  Y2  pound  spaghetti 
into  pieces,  place  it  in  a  saucepan,  cover  with  boiling  water,  add  Y2 
tablespoonful  salt,  and  cook  30  minutes ;  then  drain  on  a  sieve. 
Melt  Ys  ounce  butter  in  a  saucepan,  add  %  tablespoonful  flour,  stir 

516 


MACARONI  AND  NUDLES.  517 

and  cook  2  minutes ;  add  V2  cupful  milk  and  a  little  salt,  cook  3 
minutes ;  then  add  the  spaghetti,  1  ounce  butter,  and  IY2  ounce 
grated  cheese  ;  mix  all  well  together.  Put  the  preparation  2  inches 
thick  in  a  buttered  pan,  cover  with  buttered  paper,  and  lay  a  light 
weigh  tover  it.  When  cold,  turn  the  spaghetti  out,  cut  out  round 
pieces  with  a  lYg-inch-wide  cutter,  roll  in  freshly  grated  bread 
crumbs,  dip  into  beaten  egg,  and  cover  with  bread  crumbs ;  make 
an  incision  on  top  of  each  croustade  with  a  smaller  cutter,  to  form 
a  cover ;  then  fry  in  deep  hot  fat  to  a  fine  golden  color.  When 
done  remove  with  a  skimmer  to  blotting  paper,  lift  off  the  cover, 
take  out  the  inside  with  a  spoon,  and  fill  with  a  crab,  lobster,  or 
oyster  salpicon  ;  put  on  the  cover,  and  serve  in  a  napkin  on  a  hot 
dish. 

Timlbales  of  Macaroni. ‚Äî Place  4  ounces  macaroni  unbroken 
in  a  saucepan,  cover  with  boiling  water,  add  1  teaspoonful  salt,  and 
boil  till  tender ;  then  drain  in  a  sieve.  Butter  6  small  timbale  forms 
and  line  them  with  macaroni  thus :  Take  a  long  piece  of  macaroni, 
lay  one  end  in  the  center  of  the  form,  curl  the  macaroni  round  it  to 
form  a  coil  like  a  rope ;  when  the  bottom  is  covered  line  the  sides 
likewise.  After  lining  all  the  forms  in  this  way,  fill  them  %  full  of 
chicken  forcemeat,  press  it  on  sides  and  bottom  so  as  to  leave  a 
hollow  space  in  the  center.  Fill  1  spoonful  of  salpicon  into  each 
one,  and  cover  with  the  same  forcemeat ;  30  minutes  before  serving, 
set  the  timbales  covered  with  buttered  paper  in  a  pan  filled  with 
boiling  water  up  to  half  their  height.  Place  the  pan  in  a  medium- 
hot  oven,  and  bake  25  minutes ;  then  remove.  Have  ready  Yg  pio^^ 
of  tomato  sauce  a  I'allemande,  and  mix  it  with  3  tablespoonfuls 
whipped  cream ;  pour  the  sauce  on  a  hot  dish ;  unmold  the  timbales, 
and  dress  them  over  the  sauce,  then  serve. 

Tomato  and  Spaghetti  a  I'ltalienne. ‚Äî Bake  Vg  pound 
Italian  spaghetti  into  pieces,  put  it  with  two  quarts  boiling  water 
over  the  fire,  add  Yg  tablespoonful  salt,  and  boil  25  to  30  minutes. 
Melt  1  ounce  butter  in  a  saucepan,  add  1  fine-chopped  onion,  Y2 
fine-chopped  green  pepper  without  the  seeds,  cook  6  minutes ;  add 


518  MACARONI  AND  NUDLES. 

Ya  can  of  tomatoes,  Yg  cupful  fine-chopped  mushrooms,  1  teaspoonful 
salt,  1  teaspoonful  sugar,  Y4  teaspoonful  pepper,  cook  20  minutes. 
When  the  spaghetti  is  done,  drain  it  in  a  colander,  grate  4  ounces 
Parmesan  cheese  (or  4  ounces  American  cheese),  put  the  spaghetti 
in  alternate  layers  in  a  dish  with  the  tomatoes  and  grated  cheese. 
Place  the  dish  a  few  minutes  in  the  oven,  and  serve.  (The  cheese 
may  be  omitted  if  objected  to.)  Macaroni  can  be  prepared  in  the 
same  way. 

Spaghetti  or  Macaroni,  cooked  Plain.‚Äî Place  a  saucepan 
with  2  quarts  water  over  the  fire,  add  Yg  tablespoonful  salt ;  as  soon 
as  it  boils,  break  Ys  pound  of  spaghetti  or  macaroni  into  3-inch 
lengths,  put  into  the  boiling  water,  and  cook  from  25  to  35  minutes, 
till  tender.  When  done,  drain  in  a  sieve  or  colander,  put  into  a  hot 
dish,  add  2  ounces  butter  in  small  pieces,  mix  it  with  2  forks  until 
the  butter  is  melted ;  add  Ys  cupful  cream  or  milk  or  1  tablespoon- 
ful unsweetened  condensed  milk  ;  then  serve  with  roasted  meat. 

Spaghetti  a  I'Allemande. ‚Äî Boil  Y2  pound  of  Italian  spaghetti 
in  salted  water  as  in  the  foregoing  recipe.  Place  at  the  same  time 
a  saucepan  with  2  ounces  butter  over  the  fire,  add  Y2  cupful  fine- 
chopped  onions,  cook  5  minutes  without  browning;  add  1  can  of  toma- 
toes, 1  teaspoonful  salt,  Y2  ^ven  teaspoonful  pepper,  1  tablespoonful 
sugar,  cook  15  minutes;  press  the  tomatoes  through  a  wire  sieve,  mix 
the  yolks  of  2  eggs  with  1  tablespoonful  cold  water,  add  them  to  the 
tomatoes ;  stir  a  few  minutes  over  the  fire  without  boiling  (if  handy, 
add  Ys  cupful  whipped  cream).  Drain  the  spaghetti  in  a  sieve,  put 
it  in  a  hot  dish,  in  alternate  layers  with  the  tomatoes,  then  serve. 
Another  way  is  to  cover  the  top  of  dish  with  grated  cheese,  then 
bake  a  few  minutes  in  a  hot  oven. 

NUDLES. 

Nudles. ‚Äî Place  Y2  pint  of  flour  on  a  pastry  board,  make  a  hol- 
low in  center,  put  in  2  well-beaten  eggs,  Y2  teaspoonful  of  butter,  a 
sprinkle  of  salt,  2  tablespoonfuls  of  water,  work  this  with  sufficient 
flour  into  a  stiff  paste  until  it  does  not  stick  to  the  hands,  then  di- 


MACARONI  AND  NUDLES.  519 

vide  it  into  8  equal  parts,  roll  out  each  part  as  thin  as  paper,  and 
let  lie  for  15  minutes  ;  then  cut  each  part  into  long  strips  IY2  inch 
in  width  ;  lay  4  strips  on  top  of  one  another,  and  cut  as  fine  as  pos- 
sible ;  shake  the  nudles  apart  and  spread  on  the  board  to  dry  ;  they 
are  then  ready  for  use,  either  for  soup  or  other  dishes  mentioned  in 
various  recipes.  If  the  nudles  are  not  all  used  at  once  they  may, 
when  thoroughly  dry,  be  put  away  in  a  box,  where  they  will  keep  for 
several  weeks.  Another  way  is  to  take  4  yolks  and  no  water  in 
place  of  whole  eggs,  otherwise  prepare  in  the  same  way. 

Nudles,  Boiled,  dressed  with  Pork  and  Onions.‚Äî Prepare 
some  nudles  from  2  whole  eggs  as  directed,  cut  Yg  ir^ch  wide. 
Sprinkle  the  nudles  in  a  saucepan  of  boiling  water,  add  1  table- 
spoonful  salt,  and  cook  12  minutes  ;  then  drain,  and  put  in  a  hot 
dish.  Fry  4  ounces  fine-cut  larding  pork  to  a  straw-color,  add  Yg 
cupful  fine-cut  onions,  and  cook  5  minutes  without  browning  ;  pour 
it  over  the  nudles,  and  serve. 

Nudles  with  Tomato  Sauce  a  I'Allemande. ‚Äî Prepare  and 
boil  the  nudles  of  2  whole  eggs  as  directed.  Place  a  saucepan  with 
2  ounces  butter  over  the  fire,  add  2  fine-chopped  onions,  1  bay  leaf, 
and  12  whole  peppers,  cook  5  minutes  without  browning ;  add  1 
can  of  tomatoes,  1  teaspoonful  salt,  Y2  teaspoonful  pepper,  1  table- 
spoonful  sugar,  cook  15  minutes ;  mix  Ys  tablespoonful  cornstarch 
with  a  little  cold  water,  add  it  to  the  tomatoes,  cook  a  few  minutes. 
Draw  the  saucepan  to  side  of  stove ;  mix  the  yolks  of  2  eggs  with  a 
little  cold  water,  add  to  the  tomatoes,  stir  for  a  few  minutes  over 
the  fire  ;  add  1  tablespoonful  unsweetened  condensed  milk  (or  2 
tablespoonfuls  whipped  cream),  drain  the  nudles.  When  done  put 
them  in  a  hot  dish  in  alternate  layers  with  the  tomatoes,  and  serve. 

Nudles  a  I'ltalienne. ‚Äî Prepare  and  boil  the  nudles  from  the 
yolks  of  4  eggs.  Place  a  saucepan  with  1  ounce  butter  over  the  fire, 
add  1  gill  of  fine-chopped  onion,  Y2  fine-chopped  green  pepper, 
cook  5  minutes  ;  add  Ys  cupful  dried  mushrooms  previously  soaked 
in  cold  water,  Ys  can  of  tomatoes,  Ys  teaspoonful  salt,  1  teaspoonful 


520  MACARONI  AND  NUDLES. 

sugar,  cook  10  minutes  ;  drain  the  nudles  in  a  sieve.  Place  a  layer 
of  nudles  in  a  souffle  or  pudding  dish,  pour  over  some  of  the  toma- 
toes, and  sprinkle  over  2  tablespoonf uls  grated  cheese ;  repeat  until 
all  the  nudles  are  placed  in  the  dish,  then  cover  the  top  with  cheese, 
sprinkle  over  it  1  tablespoonful  bread  crumbs,  and  bake  light  brown 
in  a  hot  oven  about  10  minutes  ;  then  serve.  This  dish  can  also  be 
prepared  without  the  cheese. 

Nudle  Border. ‚Äî Prepare  nudles  from  the  yolks  of  4  eggs  as 
directed  in  foregoing  recipe ;  boil  6  minutes  in  salted  water,  then 
drain  on  a  sieve.  Return  the  nudles  to  the  saucepan,  add  2  ounces 
butter  and  Yg  teaspoonful  nutmeg,  toss  for  a  few  minutes  over 
the  fire ;  then  fill  into  a  buttered  border  form,  press  in  firmly  and 
smooth  evenly  on  the  top.  Set  the  mold  in  a  pan  of  hot  water,  the 
water  reaching  half  way  up  the  form,  cover,  and  let  it  stand  10 
minutes  on  side  of  stove,  then  turn  the  border  on  to  a  hot  dish,  and 
dress  the  articles  to  be  served  with  it  either  on  top  or  inside  the 
border. 

Boiled  Nudles  with  Bread  Crumbs. ‚Äî Prepare  some  nudles 
of  2  whole  eggs,  as  directed  in  foregoing  recipe.  Place  a  saucepan 
with  3  quarts  water  over  the  fire ;  as  soon  as  it  boils  add  1  table- 
spoonful  salt,  and  gradually  sprinkle  in  the  nudles;  stir  at  first 
lightly  to  prevent  sticking  to  the  saucepan,  then  cover,  and  boil  10 
minutes.  In  the  meantime  grate  some  stale  bread  on  a  grater,  put 
1  cupful  crumbs  in  a  tin  pan,  pour  over  1  ounce  melted  butter,  mix 
the  crumbs  and  butter  well  together ;  set  the  pan  in  a  hot  oven 
and  bake  till  light  brown,  stirring  often.  Drain  the  nudles  as  soon 
as  done  in  a  sieve  or  colander,  put  in  a  hot  dish,  pour  over  1  ounce 
melted  butter,  mix  with  2  forks,  spread  the  crumbs  over  the  top, 
and  serve. 

Petites  Croustades  of  Nudles.‚Äî Prepare  a  nudle  paste  of  the 
yolks  of  4  eggs,  Y4  teaspoonful  salt,  Y2  teaspoonful  butter,  and  1 
tablespoonful  cream.  Divide  the  paste  into  4  equal  parts,  roll  each 
part  out  as   thin  as    possible,   then   cut   into    6-inch-wide  strips, 


MACARONI  AND  NUDLES.  521 

let  lie  on  the  board  to  dry  for  a  few  minutes;  then  lay  4  strips 
over  one  another,  cut  these  into  fine  strips,  then  dust  with  flour, 
shake  up  well,  and  leave  to  dry  for  1  hour.  Place  a  saucepan  with 
2  quarts  of  boiling  water  over  the  fire,  add  Y2  tablespoonful  salt ;  as 
soon  as  it  boils  sprinkle  in  the  nudles,  cook  6  minutes ;  pour  in  a 
sieve  to  drain.  Eeturn  the  nudles  to  the  saucepan,  add  1  ounce 
butter  and  lYg  ounce  grated  Parmesan  or  American  cheese,  Yg  tea- 
spoonful  nutmeg ;  put  the  nudles,  2  inches  deep,  into  a  buttered 
pan.  Cover  with  buttered  paper,  put  over  a  light  weight,  and  set 
aside  to  cool.  When  thoroughly  cold  turn  the  nudles  on  a  board, 
cut  out  lYs-inch  pieces  with  a  round  cutter,  roll  in  fresh  grated 
bread  crumbs,  dip  into  beaten  egg,  and  roll  again  in  bread  crumbs ; 
make  with  a  small  cutter  an  incision  on  top  of  each  croustade,  to 
form  a  cover,  fry  in  deep  fat  to  a  fine  golden  color ;  carefully  re- 
move to  blotting  paper,  lift  off  the  cover,  hollow  out  with  a  spoon, 
and  fill  with  chicken  salpicon  or  a  chicken  piiree.  Replace  the 
cover,  and  serve  on  a  napkin.  Nudle  croustades  may  be  filled  with 
any  kind  of  salpicon. 


RICE,   HOMINY,  AND    BREAD   CROUSTADES. 

Boiled  B-ice  a  PAllemande. ‚Äî Place  a  saucepan  with  Y2  pound 
‚ñÝwell-washed  rice  over  the  fire,  cover  with  cold  water,  boil  5  min- 
utes ;  then  drain,  and  rinse  with  cold  water.  Put  the  rice  in  a  dou- 
ble boiler,  add  IV2  pint  milk,  Yg  teaspoonful  salt,  1  teaspoonful 
sugar,  and  Yg  tablespoonful  butter ;  cover  and  cook  till  tender ;  if 
necessary  add  more  milk.  The  rice  when  done  should  be  thick  and 
the  kernels  not  broken.     This  rice  is  served  as  a  vegetable  to  meat. 

Bice  Milanaise. ‚Äî Put  Y2  pound  well-washed  rice  in  a  sauce- 
pan of  boiling  water,  cook  10  minutes,  then  drain,  and  rinse  with 
cold  water.  Put  the  rice  into  a  double  boiler,  cover  with  1  pint  of 
water,  1  even  teaspoonful  salt,  and  cook  till  tender  and  thick,  with 
the  kernels  unbroken.  At  the  same  time  melt  2  ounces  of  butter  in 
a  saucepan,  add  2  fine-chopped  onions  and  Ys  fine-chopped  green 
pepper  without  the  seeds,  cook  5  minutes  without  browning,  then 
add  Ys  pint  of  stewed  tomatoes,  6  fine-chopped  mushrooms,  1  even 
teaspoonful  salt,  cover  and  cook  slowly  10  minutes.  When  the  rice 
is  done,  add  it  to  the  onion  and  tomatoes ;  mingle  lightly  together, 
and  serve  in  a  hot  dish.  Another  way  is  to  add  to  the  above  prepa- 
ration, 5  minutes  before  serving,  2  ounces  grated  cheese. 

Bice  with  Apples. ‚Äî Parboil  Y2  pound  of  rice  10  minutes  in 
water ;  then  drain,  and  rinse  with  cold  water ;  return  to  the  sauce- 
pan, cover  with  1  pint  fresh  water,  add  Ys  teaspoonful  salt,  IY2  table- 
spoonful  sugar,  and  6  peeled  and  fine-cut  apples ;  cook  until  done, 
then  serve  with  roast  pork. 

Bice  Timbales,  Plain. ‚Äî Wash  and  place  Y2  pound  rice  in  a 
saucepan   over  the  fire,  cover  with  cold  water,  cook  5  minutes ; 

522 


RICE,  HOMINY,  AND  BREAD  CROUSTADES.  523 

drain  and  rinse  with  cold  water;  return  to  the  saucepan,  cover 
with  1  pint  milk,  add  Y2  teaspoonful  salt,  1  ounce  butter,  cook 
until  done ;  then  remove  from  fire,  add  the  yolks  of  2  eggs, 
mix  well.  Fill  the  rice  into  small  buttered  timbale  forms,  set  the 
timbales  in  a  pan  half  filled  with  hot  water,  place  the  pan  in  a  me- 
dium-hot oven,  and  bake  10  minutes ;  then  unmold  and  serve. 
Rice  timbales  are  used  as  a  garnish  for  fricassees,  blanquet  of  veal, 
and  other  dishes.  They  may  also  be  served  as  a  dessert  with  fruit 
sauce  or  preserved  cherries  or  strawberries. 

Rice  Timbales  h  la  Financiere. ‚Äî Wash  and  blanch  Yg  pound 
rice,  place  in  a  saucepan,  cover  with  1  pint  chicken  broth,  add  ^/g 
teaspoonful  salt  and  Yg  ounce  butter,  cover  and  cook  till  tender  (if 
the  rice  should  be  too  dry,  add  a  little  more  broth).  When  done, 
mix  the  rice  with  the  yolks  of  3  eggs,  fill  6  small  buttered  timbale 
forms  three  quarters  full  with  the  rice,  press  it  against  the  bottoms 
and  sides  of  forms,  to  leave  a  hollow  space  in  center,  and  fill  1  spoon- 
ful salpicon  a  la  financiere  into  each  timbale.  Cover  the  forms  with 
rice,  place  the  timbales  in  a  pan  half  full  of  water,  and  the  pan  in  a 
medium-hot  oven ;  cover  with  buttered  paper,  and  bake  15  minutes. 
Then  remove,  unmold  the  timbales,  and  serve  with  sauce  financiere. 

Rice  Croquettes,  No.  1. ‚Äî Blanch  Y2  pound  of  rice  in  boiling 
water  for  5  minutes,  drain,  and  rinse  with  cold  water ;  return  the 
rice  to  saucepan,  cover  with  1  pint  of  white  broth,  season  with  1 
even  teaspoonful  salt,  and  cook  till  tender ;  then  remove.  Mix  the 
rice  with  IY2  ounce  butter,  3  ounces  grated  cheese,  and  3  table- 
spoonfuls  cream ;  spread  the  mixture  on  a  flat  dish  IY4  inch  high, 
and  set  aside  to  cool ;  half  an  hour  before  serving,  cut  the  rice  into 
pieces  3  inches  long  and  1  inch  wide,  roll  in  fresh  grated  bread 
crumbs ;  then  dip  in  beaten  egg  and  roll  again  in  bread  crumbs ; 
shape  nicely  and  fry  light  brown  in  hot  fat.  Lay  for  a  few  minutes 
on  paper,  then  serve  with  broiled  or  fried  meat. 

Rice  Croquettes,  No.  2. ‚Äî Parboil  Y2  pound  of  rice  5  minutes 
in  water,  then  drain  and  rinse  with  cold  water ;  return  the  rice  to 
34 


524  RICE,  HOMINY,  AND   BREAD  CROUSTADES. 

saucepan,  add  1  pint  milk,  1  ounce  butter,  1  even  teaspoonful  salt, 
and  boil  till  tender;  then  mix  with  the  yolks  of  2  eggs.  Spread  the 
rice  IV4  inch  thick  in  a  shallow  tin  pan  and  set  aside ;  when  cold 
cut  the  rice  into  strips  3  inches  long  and  1  inch  wide,  dip  in  beaten 
eggs,  and  roll  in  fresh  grated  bread  crumbs.  Fry  in  hot  fat  to  a 
fine  golden  color,  lay  for  a  few  minutes  on  paper ;  then  serve  on 
a  hot  dish.  They  are  nice  for  breakfast  with  broiled  chops  or 
steaks. 

Small  Rice  Croustades  a  la  Toulouse. ‚Äî Parboil  Y2  pound 
rice  5  minutes  in  water,  then  drain,  and  rinse  it  with  cold  water; 
return  to  saucepan,  cover  with  1  pint  of  chicken  broth ;  add  1  even 
teaspoonful  salt,  1  ounce  butter,  and  cook  till  tender  (if  the  rice 
should  be  too  dry,  add  a  little  more  bouillon).  When  done  mix 
with  3  tablespoonfuls  grated  Parmesan  or  American  cheese,  add 
lastly  the  yolks  of  2  eggs ;  spread  the  rice  IY4  inch  thick  in  a  but- 
tered pan,  and  set  aside  to  cool.  Then  cut  with  a  cutter  of  lYg  inch 
diameter  round  pieces,  cover  with  grated  bread  crumbs,  brush  over 
with  beaten  egg,  and  again  cover  with  grated  bread  crumbs.  Make 
an  incision  with  a  small  cutter  on  top  of  each  croustade  to  form  the 
cover  ;  fry  in  deep  hot  fat  to  a  fine  golden  color ;  carefully  remove. 
Set  the  croustade  for  a  few  minutes  on  paper,  removing  the  cover, 
hollow  out  with  a  teaspoon,  and  fill  with  a  salpicon  a  la  Toulouse ; 
lay  a  small  white  cooked  mushroom  on  top  of  each,  and  serve  on  a 
napkin. 

Petites  Croustades  of  Rice  h  la  Parmesan.‚Äî Prepare  6 

rice  croustades  as  in  foregoing  recipe.  Beat  3  eggs  until  very  light, 
add  a  small  pinch  of  salt  and  3  tablespoonfuls  cream  or  milk ;  beat 
again  for  a  few  seconds.  Place  a  small  frying  pan  with  Y2  table- 
spoonful  butter  over  the  fire ;  as  soon  as  hot,  pour  in  the  beaten 
eggs,  stir  and  cook  till  the  eggs  begin  to  thicken,  then  sprinkle  over 
3  tablespoonfuls  grated  cheese.  Mix  the  cheese  lightly  with  the 
eggs,  then  remove  from  fire.  Fill  the  croustades  with  the  egg 
preparation,  cover  them  either  with  their  own  cover  or  with  a  slice 


RICE,  HOMINY,  AND  BREAD  CROUSTADES.  525 

of  truffle ;  serve  on  a  napkin.     Croustades  of  farina  are  prepared 
in  the  same  way. 

Small  Timbales  of  Rice  a  la  Portuguese.‚Äî Parboil  for  5 
minutes  Yg  pound  rice ;  drain,  and  rinse  in  cold  water ;  return  to 
saucepan,  cover  with  1  pint  of  white  broth,  and  cook  10  minutes. 
Fry  1  fine-chopped  white  onion  in  1  ounce  butter  5  minutes  without 
browning,  add  it  to  the  rice ;  season  with  1  even  teaspoonful  salt 
and  Vs  even  teaspoonful  pepper,  cook  till  done ;  then  mix  with  lYg 
ounce  butter  and  3  tablespoonfuls  bechamel  sauce.  Butter  some 
timbale  forms,  decorate  the  bottom  and  sides  with  truffles,  fill  three 
quarters  full  with  rice,  press  the  rice  against  sides  and  bottom  to 
have  a  hollow  space  in  center,  fill  with  1  tablespoonful  salpicon  a  la 
royale,  cover  with  rice.  Set  the  timbales  on  a  shallow  tin  pan,  place 
for  5  minutes  in  the  oven ;  then  unmold,  and  serve  with  creme, 
I'allemande  or  bechamel  sauce. 

Rice  Border, ‚Äî Parboil  for  5  minutes  Yg  pound  of  rice  in  water ; 
drain,  and  rinse  with  cold  water ;  place  in  a  double  boiler,  add  1 
pint  of  milk,  1  even  teaspoonful  salt,  1  ounce  butter,  cook  until  ten- 
der ;  add  1  ounce  butter  in  small  pieces,  Ys  teaspoonful  nutmeg,  the 
yolks  of  2  eggs.  Fill  the  rice  in  a  border  form,  set  the  form  in  a 
vessel  of  hot  water,  the  water  reaching  half  way  up ;  place  in  a 
medium-hot  oven,  cover  with  buttered  paper,  and  bake  10  minutes. 
Shortly  before  serving  turn  the  rice  out  of  form  on  to  a  hot  dish, 
and  lay  the  articles  which  are  to  be  served  with  it  on  top  and  inside 
the  border. 

Risotto  a  la  Milanaise. ‚Äî Place  a  saucepan  with  1  ounce  but- 
ter over  the  fire  ;  add  Ys  cupful  fine-chopped  onion,  cook  6  minutes 
without  browning ;  add  Ys  cupful  fine-chopped  mushrooms,  and  draw 
the  saucepan  to  side  of  stove.  Wash  and  place  1  cup  of  rice  in  a 
saucepan  over  the  fire,  cover  with  cold  water,  boil  10  minutes; 
strain  in  a  sieve,  and  rinse  with  cold  water;  add  the  rice  to  the 
onion  in  saucepan,  stir  and  cook  5  minutes ;  then  add  3  cups  of 
white  broth,  1  teaspoonful  salt,  Y4  teaspoonful  white  pepper ;  place 


526  RICE,  HOMINY,  AND  BREAD   CROUSTADES. 

the  saucepan  in  a  vessel  of  hot  water,  cover  and  boil  till  done  with 
the  kernels  whole  (if  necessary,  add  a  little  more  broth  while  boil- 
ing) ;  add  lastly  a  little  Spanish  saffron  dissolved  in  1  tablespoonful 
broth.  Turn  the  rice  on  to  a  dish,  sprinkle  over  4  tablespoonfuls 
grated  cheese  and  1  ounce  butter  in  small  pieces ;  mix  the  whole 
together  with  2  forks,  and  serve. 

Foundations. ‚Äî Foundations  are  used  to  give  entrees  a  hand- 
some appearance.  They  consist  of  1  piece,  and  are  made  of  rice, 
bread,  forcemeat,  paste,  or  wood.  They  should  fit  exactly  on  the 
dish  on  which  they  are  to  be  served  ;  they  may  be  either  smooth  on 
top  or  hollowed  out  in  the  center,  and  are  also  made  of  2  or  3  pieces 
of  different  sizes,  the  top  smaller  than  the  lower ;  they  should  be 
firmly  made  and  rolled,  so  that,  if  necessary,  the  foundation  will  be 
able  to  carry  a  small  vase  or  cupola.  The  foundation  should  be  1 
to  IV2  inch  in  thickness. 

Rice  Foundation. ‚Äî Place  IY2  pound  well-washed  rice  in  a 
double  boiler  or  steamer,  add  3  pints  cold  water,  lYg  ounce  butter, 
and  1  teaspoonful  salt,  cook  until  soft ;  remove  from  the  fire,  put 
into  a  wooden  bowl,  and  mash  fine  ;  then  take  the  rice  on  to  a 
marble  slab  or  molding  board  and  work  with  wet  hands  until  per- 
fectly smooth.  Put  the  rice  V-jz  inch  deep  into  a  buttered  fluted 
or  plain  mold,  smooth  the  top  with  a  knife,  cover  with  buttered 
paper,  and  set  it  for  8  hours  in  a  cool  place  or  on  ice.  Shortly  be- 
fore serving  set  the  mold  for  a  few  minutes  in  hot  water,  then  turn 
it  on  to  the  dish  the  entree  is  to  be  served  on,  remove  some  rice  %  inch 
deep  from  the  center  and  1  inch  from  the  edge.  Arrange  a  ragout 
in  the  center  and  place  a  border  of  fillets  of  chicken,  game,  or 
cutlets  in  a  circle  around  it,  or  vegetables  may  be  put  in  the 
center. 

Bread  Foundation. ‚Äî The  bread  should  be  baked  in  a  round 
pan  Y2  inch  larger  as  used  for  the  foundations ;  it  should  be  2  days  old. 
Cut  the  bread  to  Y2  inch  in  thickness,  pare  off  the  crust,  make  an 
incision  on  top  with  a  small  pointed  knife  IY2  inch  from  the  edge, 


RICE,  HOMINY,  AND  BREAD  CROUSTADES.  527 

put  it  into  a  pan  of  hot  fat,  and  fry  light  brown  ;  remove  to  blot- 
ting paper,  and  where  the  incision  was  made  hollow  it  out  ^4  inch 
in  depth.  Or  spread  soft  butter  all  over  the  foundation,  set  it  on  a 
baking  pan,  and  bake  to  a  fine  golden  color  in  a  hot  oven ;  then 
fasten  it  on  to  the  dish  the  entree  is  to  be  served  on  with  white  of 
egg  and  flour. 

Petites  Croustades  of  Bread. ‚Äî Procure  1  large  long-shaped 
loaf  of  bread  2  days  old,  cut  from  the  middle  3  even  slices  lYg  inch 
in  thickness ;  then  cut  with  a  272-inch  cutter  2  rounds  out  of  each 
slice  of  bread.  Make  on  top  of  each  slice  with  a  pointed  knife  a 
round  incision  Y4  inch  from  the  edge  to  form  the  cover  ;  brush  the 
croustades  over  with  melted  butter,  set  in  a  shallow  pan,  and  bake 
to  a  handsome  golden  color  in  a  hot  oven.  Eemove  from  the  oven, 
scoop  out  the  insides  with  a  small  spoon,  and  fill  the  croustades  with 
any  kind  of  salpicon  or  kidney  saute. 

Canapes  of  Bread. ‚Äî Cut  from  the  middle  of  a  long  loaf  of 
stale  bread  3  lYg-inch- thick  slices,  cut  each  lengthwise  into  2  pieces 
4  inches  long  and  2  inches  wide,  pare  neatly  and  round  the  corners ; 
then  make  with  a  small  pointed  knife  a  circular  incision  on  top  of 
each  1^/4  inch  from  the  edge.  Spread  the  canapes  over  with  a 
little  soft  butter,  set  on  a  baking  sheet,  and  bake  in  a  hot  oven  to  a 
fine  golden  color.  Take  them  from  the  oven,  remove  the  bread 
where  the  incision  was  made,  hollow  the  crust  out  with  a  spoon,  and 
use  for  serving  small-boned  reed  birds,  lark,  and  game  fillets. 

Bread  Crotitons. ‚Äî Cut  several  slices  from  a  stale  loaf  of  baker's 
bread  Yg  inch  in  thickness,  cut  them  with  a  cutter  either  into  heart, 
round,  or  oval  shapes,  brush  over  with  melted  butter,  lay  on  a  tin 
pan,  and  bake  to  a  fine  golden  color  in  a  hot  oven  ;  remove  and  use 
them  for  garnishing. 

Crust  a  la  Duchesse. ‚Äî Cut  the  rind  in  large  sheets  from  a 
Vienna  loaf  of  bread,  then  cut  the  crust  with  a  small  cutter  into 
small  round  pieces,  lay  the  pieces  on  a  baking  tin,  and  bake  a  few 
minutes  in  the  oven  ;  then  serve  with  soup. 


528  RICE,  HOMINY,  AND  BREAD  CROUSTADES. 

Border  of  Crotltons. ‚Äî Cut  some  slices  from  a  2-day8'-olcl  loaf 
of  bread,  the  slices  with  a  cutter  into  round  pieces,  then  each  round 
piece  into  half,  and  spread  thinly  with  butter  on  both  sides.  Lay 
them  in  a  tin  pan  and  bake  in  a  hot  oven  to  a  fine  golden  color  on 
both  sides.  Eemove,  and  when  cold  fasten  them  with  a  paste  made 
of  white  of  egg  and  flour  in  a  circle  around  the  dish,  one  overlap- 
ping the  other.  Place  the  dish  for  a  few  minutes  in  the  oven,  then 
remove  and  serve.  The  bread  may  be  cut  in  different  ways  to  suit 
the  fancy,  like  half  moons,  round  or  oval  shapes,  pointed  or  square. 

Hominy,  Boiled. ‚Äî Place  1  quart  of  boiling  water  in  a  sauce- 
pan over  the  fire,  add  1  teaspoonful  salt ;  mix  1  cupful  hominy 
with  1  cupful  cold  water,  stir  it  into  the  boiling  water,  cook  slowly 
30  minutes,  stirring  often.     Serve  for  breakfast. 

Hominy,  Fried. ‚Äî Boil  1  cupful  hominy  as  in  foregoing  recipe  ; 
rinse  out  a  dish  with  cold  water,  pour  in  the  hominy,  and  set  aside. 
When  perfectly  cold  cut  into  slices,  dip  in  beaten  egg,  and  cover 
with  bread  crumbs,  then  fry  in  hot  fat  light  brown  on  both  sides. 
Serve  for  breakfast  or  use  for  garnishing  wild  ducks.  It  may  also 
be  cut  into  heart  shapes,  half  moons,  or  round  shapes. 


CHEESE  DISHES. 

Cheese  Souffle. ‚Äî Place  a  saucepan  with  Y2  pint  of  boiling  milk 
and  2  ounces  butter  over  the  fire,  add  4  ounces  sifted  flour,  stir  until 
it  forms  a  paste  and  loosens  itself  from  bottom  of  saucepan.  Turn 
the  paste  into  a  bowl,  and  when  nearly  cold  mix  it  gradually  with 
the  yolks  of  5  eggs,  4  ounces  grated  Parmesan  cheese,  Y2  cupful 
whipped  cream,  1  ounce  butter,  and  the  beaten  whites.  Fill  the 
preparation  into  a  buttered  souffle  dish,  set  the  dish  in  a  pan  of  hot 
water,  water  reaching  half  way  up  the  form ;  bake  about  25  minutes, 
till  done. 

Cheese  Koch  a  la  Yiennoise. ‚Äî Put  the  yolks  of  6  eggs  in  a 
small  saucepan,  add  gradually  4  ounces  partly  melted  butter,  while 
stirring  constantly  ;  place  the  saucepan  over  a  slow  fire  and  stir  till 
beginning  to  thicken,  then  instantly  remove,  add  slowly,  stirring 
continually,  3  ounces  Parmesan  and  3  ounces  grated  Swiss  cheese ; 
then  add  1  gill  of  whipped  cream.  Beat  4  whites  to  a  stiff  froth, 
add  slowly  the  cheese  preparation  to  the  whites,  fill  the  mixture  into 
a  buttered  souffle  dish,  set  it  in  a  pan  of  hot  water,  place  in  a  medium- 
hot  oven,  and  bake  till  done. 

Petites  Caisses  au  Fromage. ‚Äî Melt  in  a  small  saucepan  2 
ounces  butter,  remove  from  fire,  and  when  nearly  cold  add  the  yolks 
of  6  eggs  ;  return  the  saucepan  to  fire,  stirring  until  beginning  to 
thicken ;  instantly  remove,  add  2  ounces  grated  Swiss  and  2  ounces 
grated  Parmesan  cheese,  Y4  even  teapoonful  white  pepper,  and  the 
same  of  salt.  Beat  the  whites  to  a  stiff  froth,  add  them  to  the 
cheese  preparation.  Butter  6  small  paper  boxes,  set  them  on  a  tin 
pan,  place  in  a  medium-hot  oven  for  10  minutes ;  remove,  and  when 

529 


530  CHEESE  DISHES. 

cold  fill  tliera  with  the  above  preparation,  return  the  cases  to  the 
oven,  and  bake  from  10  to  15  minutes,  till  done.  Serve  as  soon  as 
done. 

Welsh  Rarebit, ‚Äî Toast  4  thin  slices  of  bread  to  a  fine  golden 
color,  lay  the  toast  on  4  hot  plates  and  keep  warm.  Place  a  sauce- 
pan with  Yg  pound  fine-cut  American  cheese,  4  tablespoonfuls  ale, 
and  Ya  ounce  of  butter,  over  the  fire,  stir  until  it  forms  into  a  creamy 
mixture,  then  pour  it  over  the  hot  toast,  and  serve  immediately.  In 
place  of  ale,  cream  or  water  may  be  taken ;  if  liked,  a  little  English 
mustard  may  be  added,  and  a  sprinkle  of  Cayenne  pepper. 

Golden  Buck. ‚Äî Prepare  a  Welsh  rarebit  the  same  as  in  fore- 
going recipe,  and  lay  on  to  each  1  poached  egg.  Another  way  is  to 
lay  1  slice  of  broiled  bacon  over  the  rarebit  and  a  poached  egg  on 
top  the  bacon. 

Cheese  au  Gratin. ‚Äî Toast  3  slices  of  bread  to  a  fine  golden 
color,  place  a  slice  of  cheese  over  each  one,  lay  them  into  a  tin  plate, 
and  bake  in  a  quick  oven  till  the  cheese  is  melted.  Kemove,  lay  the 
toast  on  3  hot  plates,  and  serve  at  once. 

Fondue  on  Toast. ‚Äî Crack  4  eggs  in  a  bowl,  beat  until 
very  light ;  add  4  tablespoonfuls  milk  or  cream,  beat  2  minutes 
longer ;  season  with  Y4  teaspoonful  salt  and  a  pinch  of  Cayenne 
pepper.  Place  a  small  frying  pan  with  Y3  tablespoonful  butter  over 
the  fire ;  as  soon  as  melted  pour  in  the  eggs,  draw  them  with  a  spoon 
from  the  side  of  pan  toward  the  center ;  when  the  eggs  begin  to 
thicken  add  4  tablespoonfuls  grated  American  cheese,  mix  and  stir 
for  a  few  minutes,  then  divide  it  over  4  small  slices  of  hot  buttered 
toast,  and  serve. 

Fondue  au  Parmesan. ‚Äî Brush  the  inside  of  6  small  paper 
boxes  with  butter,  set  aside  to  dry  till  the  following  mixture  is  made  : 
Place  a  saucepan,  with  Ys  cup  cream,  IY2  ounce  cornstarch,  Ys  ounce 
butter,  a  little  salt  and  nutmeg,  over  the  fire,  stir  this  until  it  boils  ; 
remove ;  when  cold,  add  the  yolks  of  3  eggs,  the  beaten  whites  of  2  ; 


CHEESE  DISHES.  531 

then  add  lYg  ounce  grated  Parmesan  cheese,  and  fill  the  boxes  three 
quarters  full  with  the  mixture.  Set  them  on  a  tin  pan,  not  too  close 
together,  and  bake  in  a  medium-hot  oven  15  to  20  minutes.  Serve 
at  once. 

Cheese  Straws. ‚Äî Four  ounces  flour,  2  ounces  butter,  the  yolks 
of  2  eggs,  4  ounces  grated  cheese,  a  little  Cayenne  pepper,  2  table- 
spoonfuls  sweet  cream  or  milk.  Put  the  flour  in  a  bowl,  make  a 
hollow  in  the  center,  put  in  the  butter,  add  the  yolks,  and  work 
the  ingredients  gradually  together ;  then  add  the  cream  and  pepper  ; 
when  this  is  well  mixed,  add  the  cheese,  form  into  a  round  ball,  and 
set  for  1  hour  on  ice.  Then  put  the  paste  on  a  floured  board,  roll  it 
out  Ys  inch  in  thickness,  brush  over  with  beaten  egg  cut  in  small 
strips.  Einse  out  some  tin  pans  with  cold  water,  put  in  the  straws, 
and  bake  in  a  quick  oven  to  a  delicate  brown.  A  little  fine  salt 
sprinkled  over  them  when  taken  from  the  oven  is  considered  by 
many  an  improvement. 

Raniequins. ‚Äî One  half  cup  milk,  2  ounces  butter,  2  ounces 
flour,  2  eggs,  1  ounce  grated  Parmesan  cheese,  1  ounce  Swiss  cheese 
cut  into  small  dice-shaped  pieces,  Yg  teaspoonful  sugar,  a  little 
salt  and  white  pepper,  1  tablespoonful  whipped  cream.  Place  the 
milk,  salt,  sugar,  and  pepper  and  half  the  butter  over  the  fire ;  as 
soon  as  it  boils  add  the  flour,  stir  until  formed  into  a  smooth 
paste.  When  half  cooled  off  add  the  remaining  butter,  the  eggs, 
then  the  grated  cheese,  and  the  pieces  of  Swiss  cheese ;  add  lastly 
the  cream,  place  with  a  tablespoon  small  portions  on  a  buttered 
baking  pan,  brush  over  with  beaten  egg,  and  bake  in  oven. 

Salted  Almonds. ‚Äî Place  Ys  pound  of  blanched  almonds  in  a 
shallow  tin  pan,  pour  over  1  ounce  melted  butter,  set  the  pan  in  a 
medium-hot  oven,  stir  frequently,  and  roast  till  light  brown.  Ke- 
move,  put  the  almonds  into  a  bowl,  sprinkle  over  1  tablespoonful  salt, 
mix  well,  let  stand  till  cold,  then  serve ;  or  put  them  in  a  glass  jar  to 
keep  till  wanted.  One  half  tablespoonful  olive  oil  may  be  taken  in 
place  of  butter.  Salted  peanuts  and  walnuts  are  prepared  the  same  way. 


EGG  DISHES. 

Poached  Eggs. ‚Äî Place  a  deep  frying  pan  or  a  low,  wide  sauce- 
pan with  2  quarts  water  over  the  fire,  add  Ys  teaspoonful  salt  and  Yg 
tablespoonf  ul  vinegar ;  as  soon  as  it  boils  crack  an  egg,  hold  it  close 
over  the  boiling  water,  and  let  it  drop ;  treat  the  remainder  the 
same  way ;  then  draw  the  pan  to  side  of  stove,  where  the  water  will 
stop  boiling.  As  soon  as  the  white  is  firm  remove  the  eggs  care- 
fully with  a  skimmer,  cut  them  into  a  round  shape  with  a  cake 
cutter,  and  slip  the  egg  on  to  a  piece  of  buttered  toast.  If  the 
poached  eggs  are  to  be  used  for  garnishing  spinach,  Welsh  rarebit, 
or  other  dishes,  the  eggs  may  be  cooked,  then  put  into  cold  water, 
and  reheated  when  wanted.  Care  must  be  taken  not  to  poach 
more  at  a  time  than  will  go  in  a  saucepan  without  crowding. 

Eggs  boiled  for  Garnishing.‚Äî Place  6  fresh  eggs  in  a  wire 
basket,  put  into  a  saucepan  of  boiling  water,  boil  exactly  5  minutes ; 
lay  the  eggs  at  once  in  cold  water,  remove  the  shell  without  impair- 
ing the  eggs,  lay  in  fresh  cold  water,  and  reheat  them  when  wanted. 
These  eggs  are  used  for  garnishing,  or  may  be  served  with  lettuce 
and  mayonnaise. 

Eggs,  Boiled. ‚Äî Only  fresh  eggs  should  be  taken  for  boiling ;  if 
they  are  not  clean  wash  them  in  cold  water.  Place  a  saucepan  with 
boiling  water  over  the  fire,  put  the  eggs  carefully  into  the  boiling 
water  with  a  spoon  or  ladle ;  if  wanted  soft,  boil  3  minutes ;  if 
medium,  5  minutes  ;  and  if  hard,  from  7  to  10  minutes.  Ke- 
move  the  eggs,  lay  in  cold  water  for  a  minute,  then  take  out, 
and  serve. 

533 


EGG  DISHES.  533 

Eggs,  Fried. ‚Äî Use  either  olive  oil,  lard,  or  butter  for  frying  eggs. 
Place  a  small  deep  frying  pan  with  1  tablespoonful  butter  over  the 
fire ;  as  soon  as  hot  break  into  it  1  egg,  incline  it  slightly  so  that 
the  butter  is  all  around  the  egg,  pour  the  hot  butter  with  a  spoon 
over  the  egg  for  1  minute,  then  turn  over  and  fry  Yg  minute  on  the 
other  side.  Lift  it  up  with  a  cake  turner,  dress  on  a  hot  dish  ;  pro- 
ceed and  fry  the  remaining  eggs  the  same  way,  until  the  desired 
quantity  is  cooked  ;  if  necessary  add  more  butter,  lard,  or  oil  as  the 
frying  continues  ;  season  with  a  little  salt  and  white  pepper. 

Eggs  fried  a  PAllemande. ‚Äî Place  a  small  frying  pan  with  1 
tablespoonful  pure  leaf  lard  or  butter  over  the  fire  ;  as  soon  as  hot 
break  in  1  egg,  keep  pouring  the  hot  butter  over  the  egg  with  a 
spoon  until  the  yolk  is  covered  with  a  thin  white  sheet ;  then  care- 
fully lift  it  up  with  a  cake  turner,  dress  on  a  hot  dish,  and  sprinkle 
over  a  little  seasoning  salt ;  proceed  until  the  desired  quantity  of 
eggs  are  cooked  ;  each  egg  must  be  cooked  separately,  and  more 
lard  or  butter  added  if  necessary. 

Eggs  an  Miroir,  Fried. ‚Äî Break  2  eggs  in  a  cup.  Place  a 
small  frying  pan  with  Yg  tablespoonful  butter  over  the  fire  ;  as  soon 
as  melted  put  in  the  eggs,  fry  over  slow  fire  till  the  white  is  firm 
and  the  yolk  soft ;  remove  them  with  a  cake  turner,  being  careful 
not  to  break  the  yolk,  and  serve. 

Eggs  ail  Miroir,  Baked.‚Äî Butter  a  pie  plate  large  enough  to 
hold  6  eggs  without  crowding  ;  break  in  6  eggs,  one  beside  the 
other;  season  with  Ya  even  teaspoonful  salt.  Place  the  plate  for 
a  few  minutes  in  a  hot  oven  to  bake  (about  2  to  3  minutes)  till 
the  white  is  firm.  Eemove  the  plate,  cut  with  a  round  cutter  the 
eggs  into  a  perfect  round  shape,  lift  with  a  cake  turner  on  to  a  warm 
dish,  and  serve,  or  use  for  garnishing.  Or  put  them  on  a  crouton 
of  same  size  as  the  egg,  which  should  be  cut  with  the  same  cutter, 
or  on  a  piece  of  toast  of  same  size.  Another  way  is  to  cut  boiled 
ham  into  round  slices  of  same  size  as  the  egg  and  crouton ;  fry  it 
for  1  minute  in  butter  on  each  side,  then  put  it  on  the  crouton,  on 


534  EGG  DISHES. 

top  the  ham  place  the  egg.  Another  way  is  to  butter  a  silver  dish 
large  enough  to  hold  the  desired  quantity  of  eggs  to  be  cooked, 
break  in  the  eggs  one  beside  the  other,  taking  care  to  keep  the 
yolks  apart ;  season  with  a  little  salt,  place  them  for  2  minutes  in  a 
hot  oven,  set  the  dish  into  another,  and  serve. 

Eggs  scrambled  a  la  Fran^aise.‚Äî Melt  1  ounce  of  butter  in 
a  small  low  saucepan,  break  into  it  4  eggs,  season  with  Y4  even  tea- 
spoonful  salt,  a  pinch  of  Avliite  pepper  and  nutmeg,  stir  for  3  min- 
utes, put  the  eggs  on  a  hot  dish,  sprinkle  over  1  tablespoonful 
lemon  juice,  and  serve. 

Eggs  scrambled  a  I'AUemande. ‚Äî Break  6  eggs  into  a  bowl, 
add  Ya  even  teaspoonful  salt,  and  beat  the  eggs  with  an  egg  beater 
until  very  light ;  then  add  to  every  egg  1  tablespoonful  cold  water, 
beat  a  few  minutes  longer.  Place  a  medium-sized  frying  pan  with  1 
tablespoonful  butter  over  the  fire ;  as  soon  as  melted  put  in  the 
eggs ;  when  they  begin  to  set  draw  the  eggs  with  a  spoon  from  the 
sides  of  pan  toward  the  center,  continue  until  the  eggs  are  firm, 
then  take  up  by  spoonfuls,  lay  on  a  warm  plate,  and  serve. 

Scrambled  Eggs  a  rAmericaine. ‚Äî Break  6  eggs  into  a 
bowl,  add  Yg  even  teaspoonful  salt  and  a  little  white  pepper,  beat 
until  light.  Place  a  small-sized  frying  pan  with  1  ounce  butter 
over  the  fire ;  as  soon  as  melted  pour  in  the  eggs  ;  when  they  begin 
to  set  draw  them  with  a  spoon  from  the  edge  of  pan  to  the  center 
until  they  become  thick  ;  then  serve  on  a  warm  dish. 

Scrambled  Eggs  and  Bacon. ‚Äî Cut  2  ounces  bacon  into 
pieces  Y2  finger  long  and  %  inch  thick,  place  it  in  a  frying  pan  over 
the  fire,  fry  until  light  brown;  Beat  up  6  eggs  until  very  light,  add 
them  to  the  pork,  season  with  Ys  even  teaspoonful  salt ;  as  soon  as 
they  begin  to  set,  draw  the  eggs  with  a  spoon  from  the  sides  of  pan 
to  the  middle ;  when  firm,  but  still  soft,  put  them  on  to  a  warm  dish 
and  serve. 

Scrambled  Eggs  with  Truffles.‚Äî Break  6  eggs  into  a  bowl, 
beat  with  an  egg  beater  until  very  light;  season  with  Y2  even  tea- 


EGG  DISHES.  535 

spoonful  salt,  add  4  tablespoonfuls  of  cream,  beat  2  minutes  longer. 
Place  a  small  saucepan  with  2  ounces  butter  over  the  fire,  as  soon  as 
melted  pour  in  the  eggs,  stir  until  they  thicken ;  then  draw  to  side 
of  stove,  add  2  tablespoonfuls  fine-cut  truffles,  and  stir  1  minute ; 
turn  the  eggs  on  to  a  warm  dish,  and  garnish  with  small  round 
bread  croutons.  In  place  of  truffles  1  cupful  boiled  asparagus  tops 
may  be  added,  or  Yg  pint  cooked  green  peas. 

Scrambled  Eggs  with  Boiled  Ham. ‚Äî Chop  6  ounces  boiled 
ham  very  fine,  crack  6  eggs  in  a  bowl,  beat  until  light ;  add  4 
tablespoonfuls  milk  or  water,  beat  2  minutes ;  then  place  a  small 
saucepan  with  1  tablespoonful  butter  over  the  fire;  as  soon  as 
melted  pour  in  the  eggs,  stir  until  they  begin  to  thicken,  then  add 
the  fine-chopped  ham,  stir  1  minute  longer.  Serve  on  a  warm  dish 
with  toast  or  bread  and  butter. 

Scrambled  Eggs  with  Fines  Herbes.‚Äî Place  a  saucepan  with 
2  ounces  butter  and  2  tablespoonfuls  fine-chopped  onions  over  the 
fire,  cook  3  minutes ;  add  2  tablespoonfuls  fine-chopped  mushrooms, 
cook  2  minutes ;  season  with  Yg  teaspoonful  seasoning  salt.  Beat 
6  eggs  in  a  bowl  until  very  light,  add  4  tablespoonfuls  cream,  beat 
2  minutes  longer ;  add  to  the  saucepan,  stir  until  the  eggs  begin  to 
thicken  ;  then  draw  to  side  of  stove,  add  1  teaspoonful  fine-chopped 
parsley,  stir  for  1  minute.  Serve  on  a  warm  dish,  garnish  with 
small  round-shaped  bread  croutons. 

Scrambled  Eggs  with  Smoked  Beef.‚Äî Place  6  ounces 
smoked  beef  in  a  saucepan,  cover  with  cold  water,  set  it  over  the 
fire ;  as  soon  as  it  begins  to  boil  drain  the  beef  and  chop  it  fine. 
Break  6  eggs  into  a  bowl,  beat  with  an  egg  beater  until  very  light ; 
add  6  tablespoonfuls  water,  beat  2  minutes  longer.  Place  a  small 
saucepan  with  1  tablespoonful  butter  over  the  fire ;  as  soon  as 
melted  pour  in  the  eggs,  stir  until  they  begin  to  thicken,  then  add 
the  beef,  stir  a  few  minutes  longer ;  serve  on  a  warm  dish  with 
toast  or  bread  and  butter. 


536  EGG  DISHES. 

Scrambled  Eggs  with  Shrimps. ‚Äî Place  a  saucepan  with  Yg 
tablespoonful  butter  over  the  fire,  add  Yg  pint  of  fresh  boiled 
shrimps,  stir  and  cook  a  few  minutes.  Scramble  6  eggs  the  same 
as  in  foregoing  recipe,  add  the  shrimps,  stir  for  1  minute,  and 
serve. 

Scrambled  Eggs  with  Tomatoes.‚Äî Peel  and  cut  into  quar- 
ters 2  ripe  tomatoes ;  place  a  small  frying  pan  with  Ys  tablespoonful 
butter  over  the  fire ;  add  the  tomatoes,  season  with  Y2  ¬©^'en  teaspoon- 
ful  salt,  Y4  teaspoonful  pepper,  and  the  same  of  sugar,  cook  10  min- 
utes without  a  cover.  Break  6  eggs  into  a  bowl,  beat  with  an  egg 
beater  until  very  light,  season  with  Y4  even  teaspoonful  salt.  Place 
a  saucepan  with  1  tablespoonful  butter  over  the  fire ;  as  soon  as 
melted  add  the  eggs,  stir  until  they  begin  to  thicken,  then  add  the 
tomatoes ;  stir  and  cook  2  minutes,  then  serve  on  toast. 

German  Omelet. ‚Äî Separate  the  whites  and  yolks  of  3  eggs, 
beat  the  whites  to  a  stiff  broth.  Mix  the  yolks  with  Y4  teaspoonful 
salt  and  3  tablespoonfuls  of  cold  water,  pour  the  yolk  mixture 
slowly  into  the  whites  while  beating  constantly.  Place  an  omelet 
or  a  medium-sized  frying  pan  over  the  fire  with  1  tablespoonful 
butter ;  as  soon  as  hot  pour  in  the  egg  mixture ;  do  not  stir,  but 
when  the  eggs  begin  to  set,  slip  a  broad-bladed  knife  under  the 
omelet  to  keep  it  from  burning  at  the  bottom,  and  shake  the  pan  to 
and  fro.  When  light  brown  on  the  under  side,  place  the  pan  for  2 
or  3  minutes  in  a  hot  oven  to  bake  it  a  little  on  top ;  then  remove, 
slip  the  knife  under  one  side  of  the  omelet  and  double  in  half,  slip 
it  on  to  a  hot  dish,  and  serve.  If  liked,  1  tablespoonful  fine- 
chopped  parsley  may  be  added  to  the  omelet  mixture  before  baking. 

French  Omelet. ‚Äî Break  6  eggs  into  a  pitcher,  beat  4  minutes 
with  an  egg  beater,  season  with  Ys  even  teaspoonful  salt.  Place  an 
omelet  pan  or  a  medium-sized  frying  pan  with  1  tablespoonful  but- 
ter over  the  fire ;  when  very  hot,  pour  in  the  eggs,  draw  with  a  fork 
from  the  edge  of  pan  to  the  center;  when  the  omelet  begins  to  get 
firm,  let  it  remain  Ys  minute  without  stirring,  then  fold  it  over  each 


EGG  DISHES.  53Y 

side  so  that  the  2  sides  meet  in  the  center.  Turn  the  omelet  on  to 
a  hot  dish,  the  folded  side  underneath,  and  serve.  A  tablespoonful 
of  fine-chopped  parsley  may  be  added  to  the  egg  mixture  before 
they  are  baked,  or  fine-cut  chives. 

Spanish  Omelet. ‚Äî Place  a  saucepan  with  1  ounce  butter  over 
the  fire ;  add  1  fine-chopped  onion,  1  fine-chopped  green  pepper 
without  the  seeds,  cook  5  minutes  without  browning ;  add  2  table- 
spoonfuls  fine-chopped  mushrooms,  Yg  cupful  canned  tomatoes,  1  even 
teaspoouful  salt,  Yg  even  teaspoonful  pepper,  1  tablespoonful  fine- 
chopped  ham,  Ys  teaspoonful  sugar,  and  Ys  teaspoonful  beef  extract, 
cook  10  minutes.  Prepare  a  German  omelet  of  3  eggs,  pour  3  table- 
spoonfuls  of  the  preparation  over  the  omelet,  fold  it  together,  slip  the 
omelet  on  to  a  hot  dish,  pour  the  remaining  sauce  over  it,  and  serve. 
The  dish  may  be  garnished  with  small  fried  codfish  balls  the  size  of  a 
hickory  nut  or  French  fried  potatoes. 

Oyster  Omelet. ‚Äî Prepare  either  a  German  or  French  omelet. 
Place  13  medium-sized  oysters,  without  their  liquor,  in  a  small 
saucepan,  add  Y2  ounce  butter,  Y2  even  teaspoonful  seasoning  salt, 
Y2  tablespoonful  lemon  juice ;  set  the  saucepan  over  the  fire,  cook 
a  few  minutes  till  the  oysters  stiffen  and  begin  to  ruffie ;  then  draw 
the  saucepan  to  side  of  stove.  Mix  the  yolk  of  2  eggs  with  Y2  giU 
of  cream,  add  it  to  the  oysters,  stir  for  1  minute  over  the  fire,  then 
remove.  As  soon  as  the  omelet  is  done  lay  the  oysters  over  the  ome- 
let, fold  it  double,  and  slide  on  to  a  hot  dish ;  pour  the  sauce  around 
it,  and  serve.     Fried  oysters  can  be  used  in  the  same  manner. 

Cheese  Omelet. ‚Äî Separate  the  yolk  from  the  whites  of  4  eggs ; 
mix  the  yolks  with  4  tablespoonfuls  cream,  Y2  even  teaspoonful  salt, 
and  a  pinch  of  Cayenne  pepper ;  beat  the  whites  to  a  stiff  froth, 
add  gradually  the  yolks  while  beating  constantly.  Grate  2  ounces 
cheese,  either  Swiss  or  American.  Place  a  frying  pan  over  the 
fire  with  1  tablespoonful  butter;  when  hot,  pour  in  the  eggs; 
when  they  begin  to  set,  draw  the  eggs  from  side  of  pan  toward  the 
center ;  when  thickening,  sprinkle  over  the  grated  cheese,  let  re- 


538  EGG  DISHES. 

main  without  stirring  till  light  brown  on  the  under  side  ;  then  place 
the  pan  for  2  minutes  in  a  hot  oven ;  remove,  fold  the  omelet  over 
and  slip  on  to  a  hot  dish,  ?nd  serve. 

Lobster  Omelet. ‚Äî Place  %  pint  cooked  lobster  meat  in  a  sauce- 
pan, cover  barely  with  cream.  Mix  1  teaspoonful  butter  with  Y2  tea- 
spoonful  cornstarch,  add  it  to  the  lobster,  season  with  Y3  even  tea- 
spoonful  seasoning  salt,  and  cook  3  minutes.  Prepare  either  a  French 
or  German  omelet,  put  part  of  the  lobster  over  the  omelet,  fold,  and 
slip  it  on  to  a  hot  dish,  pour  the  remaining  lobster  around  it,  and  serve. 

Crab^  Crawfish,  and  Shrimp  Omelets.‚Äî Prepared  the  same 
as  lobster  omelet. 

Tomato  Omelet,  No.  1. ‚Äî Place  a  frying  pan  with  1  ounce  of 
butter  over  the  fire ;  peel  and  cut  into  quarters  3  ripe  tomatoes,  add 
them  to  the  butter,  season  with  ^4  teaspoonful  salt,  the  same  of  pep- 
per and  sugar,  cook  10  minutes.  Prepare  a  French  or  German 
omelet,  lay  half  of  the  tomatoes  over  the  omelet,  fold  it  over  and 
slip  on  to  a  hot  dish,  pour  the  remaining  tomatoes  around  it,  and 
serve  with  toast  or  bread  and  butter. 

Tomato  Omelet,  No.  2. ‚Äî Drain  Y2  piii^^  of  canned  tomatoes 
in  a  sieve,  melt  2  ounces  butter  in  a  saucepan,  add  the  tomatoes, 
season  with  Yg  teaspoonful  salt,  Y4  teaspoonful  pepper,  and  the  same 
of  sugar  ;  cook  10  minutes.  Beat  6  eggs  until  very  light,  add  to 
the  tomatoes,  stir  a  few  minutes,  then  let  rest  for  1  minute.  Fold 
the  omelet  over,  slip  it  on  to  a  hot  plate,  and  serve. 

Omelet  a  I'ltalieiine. ‚Äî Place  a  frying  pan  with  2  ounces  but- 
ter over  the  fire,  add  2  tablespoonfuls  fine-chopped  onion,  1  small 
bruised  clove  of  garlic,  cook  3  minutes ;  add  6  dried  mushrooms, 
previously  soaked  in  water,  4  ripe  peeled  tomatoes  cut  into  quar- 
ters ;  season  with  Y2  teaspoonful  salt,  Yi  teaspoonful  pepper,  and  the 
same  of  sugar ;  cook  slowly  10  minutes.  Separate  the  whites  and 
yolks  of  5  eggs,  beat  the  whites  to  a  stiff  froth  ;  add  the  yolks  ;  beat 
1  minute  longer ;  add  the  eggs  to  the  preparation  in  pan ;  when 
beginning  to  set,  draw  them  gently  with  a  fork  from  the  side  of  pan 


EGG  DISHES.  639 

to  the  center.  When  nearly  firm  leave  for  a  few  minutes  without 
stirring ;  fold  the  omelet  over  from  both  sides,  and  turn  it  on  to  a 
dish,  with  the  folded  side  underneath,  and  serve. 

Kidney  Omelet. ‚Äî Place  a  small  saucepan  with  1  tablespoon- 
ful  fine-chopped  onion,  1  ounce  butter,  Yg  bay  leaf,  and  6  whole 
peppers,  over  the  fire,  cook  5  minutes  without  browning ;  add  1  tea- 
spoonful  flour,  stir  1  minute ;  add  1  gill  of  boiling  water,  Yg  tea- 
spoonful  liquid  beef  extract,  3  tablespoonfuls  Madeira  or  sherry 
wine,  Ys  even  teaspoonful  salt,  Y4  teaspoonful  pepper,  cook  5  min- 
utes ;  then  strain  the  sauce  into  a  clean  saucepan.  Cut  3  lamb  or 
sheep  kidneys  in  halves,  remove  the  white  part  in  the  center,  cut 
the  kidneys  into  small  slices,  add  them  to  the  sauce,  cook  5  min- 
utes. Prepare  either  a  German  or  French  omelet,  pour  over  the 
kidneys,  fold  and  slip  the  omelet  on  a  hot  dish,  and  serve. 

Eggs  a  la  de  Castellane. ‚Äî Boil  6  eggs  10  minutes,  remove 
and  lay  them  in  cold  water ;  when  cold  take  off  the  shells  and  cut 
the  eggs  in  halves,  remove  the  yolks,  and  mash  them  fine;  mix 
with  Ys  tablespoonful  butter,  Y2  cupful  whipped  cream,  Ys  even  tea- 
spoonful pepper,  1  even  teaspoonful  salt,  and  Y*  teaspoonful  nut- 
meg. Mix  all  together,  fill  into  the  eggs,  lay  them  on  the  dish  on 
which  they  are  to  be  served,  and  prepare  the  following  sauce  :  Place 
a  small  saucepan  with  1  ounce  butter  and  1  tablespoonful  fine- 
chopped  onion  over  the  fire,  add  Ys  bay  leaf,  6  coarsely  pounded 
peppers,  cook  5  minutes ;  add  Ys  tablespoonful  flour,  stir  2  minutes ; 
add  1  cupful  boiling  water,  1  teaspoonful  beef  extract,  2  tablespoon- 
fuls sherry  wine,  Ys  teaspoonful  salt,  Y4  teaspoonful  pepper,  cook  5 
minutes;  then  strain  into  a  clean  saucepan,  add  Ys  cupful  fine- 
chopped  mushrooms,  cook  5  minutes ;  add  1  teaspoonful  fine- 
chopped  parsley,  1  teaspoonful  lemon  juice,  and  a  little  nutmeg ; 
pour  the  sauce  over  the  eggs ;  set  the  dish  for  5  minutes  in  a  hot 
oven,  and  serve. 

Stuffed  Eggs. ‚Äî Boil  1  dozen  eggs  10  minutes,  lay  them  in  cold 
water.     When  cold  remove  the  shell,  cut  the  eggs  in  halves  leugth- 
35 


540  EGG  DISHES. 

wise,  take  out  and  mash  the  yolks  fine.  Mix  with  1  cupful  fine- 
minced  roasted  lamb,  1  grated  onion,  2  fine-rolled  soda  crackers, 
the  yolks  of  2  raw  eggs,  2  tablespoonfuls  milk  or  cream,  1  ounce 
melted  butter,  and  season  with  pepper  and  salt.  When  this  is  well 
blended,  fill  the  2  halves  with  this,  smooth  and  press  the  two  to- 
gether, dip  first  in  beaten  egg,  and  then  in  fine  bread  crumbs ;  put 
in  a  wire  basket  and  dip  into  boiling  lard,  fry  light  brown ;  drain 
off  all  the  fat  and  serve  in  a  napkin.  They  may  be  eaten  either  hot 
or  cold ;  are  also  excellent  to  take  to  a  picnic.  In  place  of  roasted 
lamb,  chicken  or  turkey  meat  may  be  used ;  also  ham  or  tongue. 

Cream  Eggs. ‚Äî Boil  some  fresh  eggs  for  5  minutes,  lay  them  in 
cold  water ;  when  cold  remove  the  shell,  and  wrap  each  egg  in  2  or 
3  lettuce  leaves.  Serve  to  each  person  1  egg  on  a  small  plate  with  1 
tablespoonful  mayonnaise  over  it.  A  few  capers  may  be  added  to 
the  mayonnaise. 

Snow  Eggs. ‚Äî Six  eggs,  1  quart  milk,  4  tablespoonfuls  sugar,  1 
teaspoonful  lemon  extract.  Separate  the  yolks  carefully  from  the 
whites  and  beat  the  latter  to  a  stiff  froth.  Put  the  milk  in  sauce- 
pan over  the  fire,  add  the  sugar  and  let  come  to  a  boil ;  drop  in  the 
snow  a  tablespoonful  at  a  time.  Cover  the  saucepan  for  2  minutes, 
turn  the  snowballs  around,  let  remain  for  2  minutes  longer,  then 
take  out  with  a  skimmer  and  lay  in  a  glass  dish.  Remove  the  milk 
from  fire,  let  cool  off  a  little ;  beat  up  the  6  yolks,  add  4  table- 
spoonfuls cold  milk  and  stir  slowly  into  the  hot  milk.  Place  the 
saucepan  with  the  milk  and  yolks  again  over  the  fire,  stir  constantly 
until  just  before  the  boiling  point.  Remove,  add  the  lemon  extract 
and  pour  it  over  the  snowballs  in  glass  dish,  dust  over  a  little  sugar 
and  cinnamon.  Serve  when  cold.  Vanilla  may  be  taken  in  place 
of  lemon. 

Shrimp  Nest. ‚Äî Cut  the  whites  of  8  hard-boiled  eggs  into 
shreds,  break  the  yolks  into  pieces  and  mix  them  with  1  pint  of 
shrimps.  Put  shrimps  and  yolks  in  center  of  a  shallow  round 
dish,   arrange   the   shreds    of  white   about    them   in    shape    of   a 


EGG  DISHES.  541 

bird's  nest,  and  pour  over  a  mayonnaise.  Lay  on  the  outside  a 
border  of  cresses  or  lettuce  leaves.  In  place  of  shrimps  fine-cut 
boiled  lobster  or  fish  may  be  taken.  (For  mayonnaise,  see  my  book 
Desserts  and  Salads,  846.) 

Nest  of  Oysters. ‚Äî Cut  the  whites  of  8  hard-boiled  eggs  into 
fine  shreds,  and  break  the  yolks  into  very  small  pieces  more  like 
crumbs.  Two  hours  before  serving,  scald  1  quart  oysters  in  their 
own  liquor,  drain  and  put  the  oysters  into  a  dish  and  cover  with 
cracked  ice.  Twenty  minutes  before  serving,  remove  the  ice,  drain 
off  the  water  from  oysters  and  squeeze  a  little  lemon  juice  over  each, 
let  lay  for  10  minutes,  then  pile  them  high  in  center  of  a  round 
shallow  dish.  Arrange  the  shreds  of  white  around  them  in  the 
shape  of  a  bird's  nest,  pour  over  a  mayonnaise,  and  sprinkle  over 
this  the  crumbled  yolks  ;  lay  on  the  outside  a  border  of  lettuce  leaves. 

Eggs  en  Croutons. ‚Äî Cut  6  rings  from  thin  slices  of  bread,  fry 
in  lard  or  butter  light  brown  ;  lay  in  rings  in  a  buttered  dish,  break 
and  drop  1  egg  into  each  ring.  Pour  Y2  cup  cream  or  milk  into  the 
dish,  sprinkle  a  little  salt  and  pepper  over.  Cover  the  dish  up  and 
bake  in  oven  till  the  white  of  egg  is  firm  and  the  yolks  soft.  Trans- 
fer the  eggs  carefully  to  a  hot  dish,  and  serve. 

Cup  Eggs  on  Toast. ‚Äî Butter  Ys  dozen  cups  and  dust  them 
with  fine  bread  crumbs,  put  into  each  one  a  raw  egg  and  a  little 
salt ;  set  the  cups  in  a  pan  of  hot  water  on  the  stove  till  the  whites 
are  hard.  In  the  meantime  cut  several  slices  of  bread  into  rounds 
with  a  cake  cutter,  toast  to  a  handsome  golden  color,  spread  with 
butter,  and  put  on  to  each  round  one  of  the  eggs  in  cup.  Serve 
hot. 

Eggs  on  Toast. ‚Äî Cut  the  bread  into  slices  Y4  inch  in  thick- 
ness, and  toast  them  on  both  sides  to  a  golden  color,  butter  and  lay 
the  toast  on  a  hot  dish  ;  put  on  to  each  piece  of  toast  a  poached 
egg  or  1  tablespoonful  scrambled  eggs  or  egg  miroir,  or  spread  the 
toast  with  anchovy  butter,  and  over  this  put  scrambled  eggs.  An- 
other way  is  to  free  some  anchovies  from  skin  and  bones,  lay  1 


54:2  EGG  DISHES. 

anchovy  over  each  piece  of  toast,  and  cover  with  scrambled  eggs ; 
or  cut  fine  some  smoked  herrings  and  put  it  over  the  toast ;  also  fine 
slices  of  salmon  may  be  used.  Boiled  ham  or  tongue  minced  fine 
may  be  used  in  the  same  way.  Clams  scalded  in  their  own  liquor, 
then  chopped  fine,  mixed  with  a  little  butter,  then  spread  over  toast 
and  with  eggs  over  it  are  good  ;  so  are  fine-cut  shrimps  mixed  with 
scrambled  eggs,  then  put  over  buttered  toast.  A  nice  way  is  to  cut 
the  bread  into  round  shapes  before  toasting,  spread  thickly  with 
fine-minced  tongue.  Heap  the  scrambled  eggs  upon  these  in  half- 
moon  shape,  and  garnish  with  parsley. 

Bird's  Nest. ‚Äî Separate  the  whites  and  yolks  of  Yg  dozen  or 
more  of  hard-boiled  eggs,  cut  the  whites  into  fine  shreds.  Pile  the 
yolk  in  the  center  of  a  round  shallow  dish,  arrange  the  shreds  of 
white  about  them  in  the  shape  of  a  bird's  nest,  pour  over  carefully 
a  mayonnaise.  Lay  a  border  of  lettuce  leaves  or  water  cresses  around 
the  nest,  and  serve. 

Eggs  Farces  a  rAllemande. ‚Äî Boil  6  eggs  10  minutes,  re- 
move and  lay  in  cold  water ;  when  cold  take  off  the  shell,  cut  the 
eggs  lengthwise  in  halves  ;  take  out  the  entire  yolk,  mash  fine  in  a 
bowl,  add  1  ounce  melted  butter,  Yg  cupful  fine-minced  boiled  ham 
or  tongue,  2  boneless  anchovies,  1  teaspoonful  fine-chopped  shallot 
or  white  onion,  Y4  clove  of  bruised  garlic,  Y4  teaspoonful  pepper, 
mix  all  well  together.  Fill  the  preparation  into  the  eggs,  lay  them 
on  the  dish  on  which  they  are  to  be  served,  brush  over  with  beaten 
egg,  and  place  for  a  few  minutes  in  a  hot  oven  ;  remove,  pour  Y2 
pint  of  tomato  sauce  a  I'allemande  over,  and  serve.  Garnish  with 
small  round  croutons.     The  garlic  may  be  omitted  if  not  liked. 


PANCAKES,  MUFFINS,  GEMS,  Etc. 

German  Pancakes. ‚Äî One  heaping  cup  flour,  Y2  teaspoonful 
salt,  2  cupfuls  milk  or  water,  3  eggs.  Sift  flour  and  salt  into  a 
bowl,  add  the  milk  and  the  3  yolks,  mix  it  into  a  smooth  batter ; 
beat  the  3  whites  to  a  stiff  froth,  add  gradually  the  batter  to  the 
beaten  whites  while  stirring  constantly.  Place  a  medium-sized 
frying  pan  over  the  fire,  with  Y2  tablespoonf ul  butter  or  lard ;  as 
soon  as  hot,  pour  in  suflBcient  of  the  mixture  to  cover  the  bottom  of 
pan,  shake  the  pan  to  and  fro  and  bake  till  light  brown  on  the 
under  side,  turn  over  and  bake  the  other ;  slip  the  pancake  on  to  a 
hot  plate,  bake  the  remaining  batter  the  same  way,  and  serve  at 
once.     This  will  make  4  pancakes. 

Eierkuchen. ‚Äî Separate  the  yolks  from  4  eggs,  mix  the  yolks 
with  1%  cupful  milk,  Yg  pint  sifted  flour,  Y2  teaspoonful  salt,  stir 
until  smooth ;  beat  the  whites  to  a  stiff  froth,  add  slowly  the  yolk 
mixture  while  beating  constantly.  Place  a  medium-sized  frying 
pan,  with  1  tablespoonful  lard  and  butter,  over  the  fire,  when  hot 
pour  sufficient  batter  to  cover  the  bottom,  bake  light  brown  on  the 
under  side,  then  turn  and  bake  the  other  side  light  brown.  Slip  the 
pancake  on  to  a  hot  plate,  and  serve  at  once.  Fry  the  remainder 
the  same  way.  These  pancakes  may  be  spread  with  marmalade  or 
jelly  and  rolled  up,  then  served. 

Potato  Pancake. ‚Äî Pare,  wash,  and  grate  12  large  raw  potatoes, 
mix  with  1  teaspoonful  salt  and  the  yolks  of  3  eggs ;  beat  the  whites 
to  a  stiff  froth,  add  the  potatoes  slowly  to  the  whites.  Place  a  large 
frying  pan  with  1  tablespoonful  fat  over  the  fire,  as  soon  as  hot  put 
small  portions  from  the  mixture  with  a  spoon  into  the  hot  fat,  to 

543 


544  PANCAKES,  MUFFINS,  GEMS,  Etc. 

form  cakes  the  size  of  a  saucer,  bake  light  brown  on  both  sides, 
transfer  them  to  a  hot  plate,  and  serve  with  apple  sauce  or  any  kind 
of  stewed  fruit.  Another  way  is  to  add  2  tablespoonfuls  grated 
bread  crumbs  to  the  grated  potatoes  before  they  are  mixed  with  the 
beaten  whites. 

Wheat  Cakes. ‚Äî Put  lYg  pint  of  flour  into  a  sieve,  add  2  tea- 
spoonfuls  of  baking  powder,  Yg  teaspoonful  salt ;  sift  the  flour  into 
a  bowl,  add  1  teaspoonful  sugar  and  1  ounce  of  butter,  rub  the  but- 
ter fine  in  the  flour.  Mix  the  yolks  of  3  eggs  with  1  pint  of  milk, 
add  to  the  flour,  stir  and  mix  to  a  smooth  batter ;  then  whip  the 
whites  to  a  stiff  froth,  add  the  batter  gradually  to  the  beaten  whites 
while  stirring  constantly.  Have  a  well-greased  griddle  over  the  fire; 
as  soon  as  hot  make  a  trial,  pour  a  spoonful  of  the  batter  on  the 
griddle,  and  if  it  should  be  too  thick  add  a  little  more  milk ;  then 
bake  them  and  serve  with  maple  sirup.     (SufiBcient  for  6  persons.) 

Dennett's  Pancakes. ‚Äî Sift  1  pint  of  flour,  with  2  teaspoonfuls 
baking  powder,  into  a  bowl,  add  Yg  teaspoonful  salt,  1  tablespoonful 
butter,  rub  the  butter  fine  in  the  flour,  add  Ys  pint  of  water,  2  eggs, 
and  2  tablespoonfuls  molasses ;  mix  this  into  a  smooth  batter,  and 
bake  on  a  hot  well-greased  griddle.     Serve  with  maple  sirup. 

Rice  Cakes. ‚Äî Mix  Ys  pint  of  cold  boiled  rice  with  the  yolks  of 
2  eggs,  Y2  gili  of  milk,  and  2  tablespoonfuls  of  prepared  flour ;  beat 
the  whites  to  a  stiff  froth,  add  slowly  the  rice  mixture  to  the  whites 
while  stirring  constantly.  Place  with  a  tablespoon  small  portions 
on  a  hot  well-greased  griddle,  and  bake  light  brown  on  both  sides 
(if  too  thick,  add  more  milk ;  if  too  thin,  more  flour) ;  continue  to 
bake  until  all  are  done.     Serve  on  hot  plates  for  breakfast. 

Hominy  Cakes. ‚Äî Prepare  the  same  as  Rice  Cakes. 

German  Buckwheat  Pancake. ‚Äî Place  1  pint  of  buckwheat 
flour  in  a  bowl,  add  3  gills  of  milk,  Y2  teaspoonful  salt,  and  the  yolks 
of  2  eggs.  Mix  this  into  a  smooth  batter,  beat  the  whites  to  a 
stiff  froth,  add  slowly  the  batter  to  the  beaten  whites  while  stirring 
constantly.     Place  a  medium-sized  frying  pan  with  1  tablespoonful 


PANCAKES,  MUFFINS,  GEMS,  Etc.  545 

lard  and  butter  over  the  fire  ;  as  soon  as  hot  pour  in  sufficient  bat- 
ter to  cover  the  pan,  bake  light  brown  on  the  under  side,  turn  and 
bake  the  same  on  the  other  side.  Slip  the  cake  on  to  a  hot  plate, 
and  finish  the  remaining  batter  the  same  way. 

Buckwheat  Cakes  with  Yeast. ‚Äî Put  IV3  pint  of  buckwheat 
flour  into  a  bowl,  add  Yg  teaspoonful  salt  and  V-j^  pint  lukewarm 
water,  add  it  to  the  batter,  stir  until  perfectly  smooth  ;  then  cover 
the  bowl,  set  it  in  a  warm  place  overnight  to  rise.  Next  morning 
add  2  tablespoonfuls  of  molasses,  and,  if  too  thick,  add  a  little  cold 
water  ;  bake  in  small  cakes  on  a  hot  well-greased  griddle,  and  serve 
on  hot  plates  as  soon  as  done.  Buckwheat  cakes  are  also  made  of 
prepared  flour,  which  is  sold  in  3-  and  6-pound  packages.  A  recipe 
will  be  found  printed  on  each  package. 

Muffins  with  Yeast. ‚Äî Eoll  some  bread  dough  into  round  balls 
the  size  of  an  egg ;  lay  buttered  muffin  rings  in  a  buttered  pan,  put 
the  balls  in  the  rings,  cover  the  rings  with  another  pan,  lay  a  weight 
on  top  the  pan,  set  in  a  warm  place  to  rise  till  light,  then  place  the 
pan  with  weights  and  all  in  a  medium-hot  oven,  bake  30  minutes 
or  till  done.     Then  remove,  and  serve  in  a  napkin. 

Graham  Muffins. ‚Äî Roll  Graham  bread  dough  into  balls,  and 
finish  as  in  foregoing  recipe. 

Graham  Gems. ‚Äî Mix  1  pint  of  Graham  flour  with  1  cup  of 

wheat  flour,  add  2  tablespoonfuls  sugar,  2  teaspoonfuls  of  baking 
powder,  Yg  tablespoonful  lard,  and  Y2  teaspoonful  salt,  rub  the  lard 
and  flour  together,  add  Yg  cupful  milk,  1  egg,  mix  all  together, 
fill  into  buttered  gem  pans,  bake  in  hot  oven,  and  serve  in  a 
‚Ä¢napkin. 

Gems.‚Äî Sift  1  pint  of  flour  with  lYg  teaspoonful  baking  pow- 
der into  a  bowl,  add  Y2  teaspoonful  salt,  Y2  tablespoonful  butter,  rub 
the  butter  flne  into  the  flour,  add  1  teaspoonful  sugar,  Y2  pint  of 
milk,  the  yolks  of  2  eggs,  and  the  beaten  whites.  Fill  this  into 
buttered  gem  pans,  and  bake  in  a  quick  oven.     Serve  in  a  napkin. 


546  PANCAKES,  MUFFINS,  GEMS,  Etc. 

Oems  with  Yeast. ‚Äî Sift  1  quart  of  flour  into  a  bowl,  add  1 
teaspoonful  salt  and  2  ounces  of  butter,  rub  the  butter  fine  into  the 
flour,  add  2  tablespoonfuls  of  sugar.  Break  1  yeast  cake  into  a  cup 
of  warm  milk,  add  1  teaspoonful  sugar,  and  let  it  stand  till  the 
yeast  rises  to  the  surface ;  then  add  it  to  the  flour,  add  1  cup  of 
warm  milk  and  2  eggs,  mix  all  well  together ;  set  in  a  warm  place 
till  light,  which  will  take  from  2  to  3  hours.  Thirty  minutes  before 
serving  fill  the  batter  into  well-buttered  gem  pans  half  full,  bake 
them  in  a  quick  oven,  and  serve  in  a  napkin. 

Northumbrian  Cakes. ‚Äî One  half  pound  flour,  Vz  teaspoonful 
salt,  3  ounces  butter,  '^|^  pound  currants,  V-j^  teaspoonful  baking 
powder,  1  teaspoonful  sugar.  Sift  flour,  powder,  and  salt  into  a 
mixing  bowl,  add  the  butter,  and  chop  it  fine  with  a  knife  ;  add  the 
currants  and  mix  with  sufficient  milk  to  make  a  soft  dough  ;  roll 
out  1  inch  in  thickness,  cut  into  3-cornered  pieces,  and  bake  on  a 
well-greased  griddle,  first  on  one  side  then  on  the  other.  When 
done  slit  them  open,  butter,  and  put  again  together.  Serve  at  once, 
or  they  may  be  cut  out  into  rounds  with  a  biscuit  cutter.  The 
cakes  are  excellent  for  breakfast  or  tea. 

Scotch  Scones. ‚Äî One  quart  prepared  flour,  Yg  cup  of  lard  and 
butter  mixed,  2  eggs,  1  teaspoonful  sugar,  nearly  2  cups  milk.  Sift 
flour  and  sugar  into  a  bowl,  add  the  lard  and  chop  it  fine  with  a 
knife  in  the  flour,  add  the  2  beaten  eggs  and  mix  with  the  milk 
into  a  soft  dough  ;  turn  it  out  on  to  a  floured  board,  roll  out  Yg  inch 
in  thickness,  cut  into  3-inch-square  pieces,  fold  each  in  half  to  form 
3-cornered  pieces.  Bake  on  a  hot  griddle  with  a  little  lard  on  both 
sides  light  brown.  Serve  in  napkin  as  soon  as  done.  If  plain  flour 
is  used,  mix  it  with  3  teaspoonfuls  baking  powder. 

Biscuits. ‚Äî Sift  1  pint  flour  with  V-j^  teaspoonful  baking  pow- 
der into  a  bowl,  add  Ys  teaspoonful  salt,  Y2  teaspoonful  sugar,  and 
1  heaping  teaspoonful  lard,  Eub  the  lard  and  flour  fine  together, 
add  Y2  pint  of  milk,  and  mix  it  with  a  knife  into  a  paste  ;  turn  the 
paste  on  to  a  fioured  board,  and  roll  it  out  with  a  rolling  pin  to  1 


PANCAKES,  MUFFINS,  GEMS,  Etc.  547 

inch  in  thickness  ;  cut  it  into  rounds  with  a  small  tin  cutter.  Mix  1 
well-beaten  egg  with  2  tablespoonfuls  milk,  brush  the  biscuits  over 
with  this,  and  bake  in  a  quick  oven  till  done ;  then  remove,  and 
separate  the  biscuits  ;  serve  in  a  napkin. 

Corn  Muffins. ‚Äî One  pint  yellow  Indian  meal,  1  pint  of  flour, 
3  ounces  sugar,  2  ounces  butter,  2  teaspoonfuls  cream  of  tartar,  1  of 
baking  soda,  1  pint  of  milk,  2  eggs,  and  Yg  teaspoonful  salt.  Sift 
the  flour  with  the  cream  of  tartar  and  salt  into  a  bowl,  dissolve  the 
baking  soda  in  a  little  boiling  water,  and  stir  it  into  the  milk.  Stir 
butter  and  sugar  to  a  cream,  add  gradually  the  eggs,  and  next  alter- 
nately the  flour  and  milk,  with  the  dissolved  soda.  Rub  the  inside 
of  small  muflan  pans  with  lard,  and  flll  each  three  quarters  full 
with  the  above  mixture ;  bake  in  a  very  hot  oven  to  a  golden 
brown.  If  muffin  pans  are  not  handy,  pour  the  mixture  into  square 
tin  pans  about  1  inch  in  thickness,  and  when  done  cut  the  cake  into 
squares.     Care  must  be  taken  to  obtain  only  fresh  Indian  meal. 

Rice  Muffins. ‚Äî One  cup  boiled  rice,  2  eggs,  1  cup  milk,  74  cup 
melted  butter,  2  teaspoonfuls  sugar,  sufiicient  prepared  flour  to  make 
a  stiff  batter ;  mix  all  together.  Put  muffin  rings  on  a  hot  griddle, 
lay  into  each  one  a  little  piece  of  lard  and  butter,  fill  them  three  quar- 
ters full  with  the  batter,  and  bake  slowly  first  on  one  side,  then  turn 
over  and  bake  the  other  side ;  they  should  be  light  brown  and  well 
done.     Serve  in  a  napkin.     (May  be  baked  in  a  medium-hot  oven.) 

Hominy  Muffins. ‚Äî Prepare  as  rice  muffins. 

Gluten  (jems.‚Äî One  pint  gluten  flour,  1  pint  milk,  1  egg,  2 
teaspoonfuls  baking  powder  mixed  with  the  flour,  Y^  teaspoonful 
salt ;  mix  all  together ;  put  the  mixture  into  buttered  gem  pans  and 
bake  in  a  quick  oven. 

Oatmeal  Gems. ‚Äî Two  cupfuls  boiled  oatmeal,  2  cupfuls  milk, 
2  tablespoonfuls  sugar,  2  tablespoonfuls  melted  butter,  2  teaspoon- 
fuls baking  powder,  and  sufiicient  flour  to  make  a  stiff  batter.  Stir 
butter  and  sugar  to  a  cream,  add  the  eggs,  next  the  oatmeal,  then 
the  milk  ;  sift  baking  powder  with  1  cup  flour,  add  it  to  the  batter 


54:8  PANCAKES,  MUFFINS,  GEMS,  Etc. 

(if  not  stiff  enough,  add  more  flour) ;  fill  the  mixture  into  buttered 
muflBn  pans,  and  bake  in  a  hot  oven.     Serve  hot. 

Yienna  Puffs. ‚Äî Two  cups  sifted  flour,  2  cups  milk,  Y2  ounce  of 
butter,  4  eggs,  a  pinch  of  salt,  and  Y2  teaspoonful  sugar.  Sift  flour, 
salt,  and  sugar  in  a  bowl ;  stir  butter  to  a  cream,  add  by  degrees  the 
yolks,  then  alternately  the  milk  and  flour,  and  last  the  whites  beaten 
to  a  stiff  froth.  Fill  the  mixture  into  buttered  cups  about  half  full 
and  bake  in  a  quick  oven.  Serve  at  once  in  a  napkin.  If  cups  are 
not  handy  take  muffin  pans.  Time  for  baking,  about  15  minutes. 
This  will  make  about  24  puffs ;  they  may  be  served  for  breakfast 
with  butter  or  as  a  dessert  with  fruit  or  wine  sauce. 

Plain  Muffins. ‚Äî One  quart  prepared  flour,  1  teaspoonful  sugar, 
2  cups  milk,  Y2  ounce  of  melted  butter,  2  eggs.  Sift  flour,  sugar,  and 
salt  together,  add  the  milk,  eggs,  and  butter.  Mix  the  whole  into  a 
thick  batter.  Put  mufl&n  rings  on  a  hot  griddle,  and  Y2  teaspoonful 
lard  into  each  one ;  fill  the  rings  half  full  with  the  batter.  "When 
baked  on  one  side  turn  them  over  gently  with  a  pancake  turner 
and  bake  till  done.  They  should  be  of  a  delicate  brown  color. 
Serve  hot  for  breakfast  or  tea. 

PopOYers. ‚Äî Mix  2  ounces  flour  with  Y2  pint  of  milk  into  a 
smooth  thin  batter,  add  the  yolks  of  2  eggs,  Y2  even  teaspoonful  salt, 
Ys  teaspoonful  sugar,  1  tablespoonful  melted  butter,  measured  after 
melted.  Beat  the  whites  of  2  eggs  to  a  stiff  froth,  add  the  batter 
slowly  to  the  whites  while  stirring  constantly.  Butter  8  gem  pans 
and  dust  with  flour,  fill  them  half  full  with  the  preparation,  and 
bake  in  medium-hot  oven  from  20  to  30  minutes.  Serve  in  a 
napkin. 

German  Puffs. ‚Äî Place  Y2  pint  milk  in  a  saucepan  over  the 
fire,  with  2  ounces  of  butter ;  as  soon  as  it  boils,  add  4  ounces  flour, 
stir  until  formed  into  a  smooth  paste;  then  remove,  and  when 
nearly  cold,  add  the  yolks  of  4  eggs  ;  mix  until  smooth  ;  then  add 
the  whites  beaten  to  a  stiff  froth  ;  stir  until  perfectly  smooth. 
Divide  this  mixture  into  8  small  tin  forms,  which  should  be  well 


PANCAKES,  MUFFINS,  GEMS.  Etc.  549 

buttered  and  dusted  with  flour ;  brush  each  over  with  beaten  egg 
and  bake  in  a  hot  oven  from  25  to  30  minutes.  Eemove,  turn  the 
puffs  out  of  forms,  and  serve  at  once  in  a  napkin.  These  puffs  are 
nice  for  breakfast  or  lunch. 

Tea  Puffs. ‚Äî Four  cups  sifted  flour,  %  yeast  cake  dissolved  in  2 
cups  of  warm  milk,  Yg  ounce  of  melted  butter,  4  tablespoonfuls 
sugar,  Y2  teaspoonful  salt,  and  1  egg.  Make  a  hollow  in  center  of 
flour,  put  in  the  egg  and  salt,  add  milk  and  yeast,  and  mix  all  well 
together ;  add  lastly  the  melted  butter,  and  set  in  a  warm  place  to 
rise.  Half  an  hour  before  serving  grease  some  muffin  or  patty  pans, 
fill  them  three  quarters  full  with  the  mixture,  and  bake  in  a  quick 
oven  ;  or  bake  in  a  long  or  square  pan  ^nd  cut  it  into  squares. 

Breakfast  Puffs. ‚Äî One  cup  milk,  1  egg,  1  cup  sifted  flour,  % 
teaspoonful  salt.  Mix  all  ingredients  well  together,  fill  the  mixture 
into  well-greased  small  patty  pans  or  muffin  pans,  let  them  be  half 
full ;  bake  in  a  quick  oven  about  10  minutes.     Serve  for  breakfast. 

Waffles. ‚Äî Sift  1  pint  of  flour  with  1  teaspoonful  baking  powder 
into  a  bowl,  add  2  tablespoonfuls  sugar,  Y2  teaspoonful  salt,  and  1 
tablespoonful  butter ;  rub  the  butter  and  flour  together,  add  1  pint 
of  milk  or  cream,  the  yolks  of  2  eggs,  mix  all  well  together ;  beat 
the  whites  to  a  stiff  froth  and  add  to  the  batter.  Place  a  waffle  iron 
over  a  clear  fire ;  when  hot,  brush  it  over  with  melted  butter,  and 
drop  into  each  square  2  tablespoonfuls  of  the  batter.  Bake  to  a  fine 
golden  color  on  each  side,  which  will  take  from  2  to  3  minutes. 
Serve  as  soon  as  done. 

Quick  Muffins. ‚Äî Mix  1  cup  of  prepared  flour  with  1  teaspoon- 
ful butter,  1  egg,  and  Y2  cupful  sour  cream  or  milk,  mix  into  a  thick 
batter,  place  6  lai'ge  muffin  rings  on  a  hot  griddle,  put  Y2  teaspoonful 
lard  into  each,  fill  each  ring  half  full  with  the  batter,  bake  over  a 
moderate  fire  light  brown,  turn  them  over  with  a  pancake  turner, 
and  bake  the  same  on  the  other  side  ;  serve  in  a  napkin.  The  rings 
may  be  placed  in  a  buttered  baking  pan  and  baked  in  the  oven. 


BREAD,  CAKES,  Etc. 

Bread. ‚Äî Sift  1  quart  flour  into  a  bowl,  add  Yg  teaspoonful  salt, 
1  teaspoonful  sugar,  and  Yg  ounce  of  lard  ;  rub  the  lard  and  flour 
together.  Make  a  hollow  in  the  center  of  flour ;  break  1  yeast  cake 
into  a  cup  of  lukewarm  water,  add  1  teaspoonful  sugar,  and  let  it 
stand  in  a  warm  place  until  the  yeast  rises  to  the  surface ;  then 
pour  it  into  center  of  flour,  add  1  cup  of  lukewarm  water,  and  mix 
the  whole  into  a  dough  ;  turn  it  on  to  a  floured  board,  and  knead 
till  no  longer  sticking  to  the  hands ;  then  return  the  dough  to  the 
bowl,  and  set  in  a  warm  place  to  rise  to  double  its  size.  Butter  a 
brick-shaped  tin  pan,  mold  the  dough  into  a  loaf,  put  it  in  the  but- 
tered pan,  let  it  rise  to  the  top,  then  place  it  in  a  moderate  oven, 
and  bake  1  hour.  When  done,  turn  the  bread  out  of  pan,  cover 
with  a  napkin,  and,  when  cold,  place  it  in  a  bread  box.  The  same 
quantity  of  yeast  will  be  sufficient  for  2  loaves  of  bread,  doubling 
all  the  ingredients  excepting  the  yeast. 

Graham  Bread. ‚Äî Put  1  quart  of  Graham  flour  into  a  bowl, 
add  Ys  teaspoonful  salt,  2  tablespoonfuls  sugar,  and  Yo  tablespoonful 
lard ;  rub  the  lard  and  flour  together,  make  a  hollow  in  center. 
Break  1  yeast  cake  into  a  cup  of  warm  milk,  add  1  teaspoonful 
sugar,  set  it  in  a  warm  place  till  it  rises  to  the  surface ;  then  pour 
the  yeast  in  the  center  of  flour,  add  Y2  cupful  warm  milk,  and  mix 
the  whole  into  a  stiff  batter  with  a  spoon ;  cover,  and  let  stand  in  a 
warm  place  till  double  its  size.  Then  add  sufficient  wheat  flour  to 
knead  into  a  soft  dough,  turn  on  to  a  floured  board,  and  knead  till 
ceasing  to  stick  to  the  hands  ;  mold  the  dough  into  a  loaf.  Butter  a 
brick-shaped  tin  pan,  place  the  loaf  in  the  pan,  let  rise  to  top  of 

550 


BREAD,  CAKES,  Etc.  55I 

pan,  place  in  a  moderate  oven  to  bake  1  hour.  When  done,  turn 
the  bread  out  of  pan,  cover  with  a  napkin,  and,  when  cold,  place  it 
in  a  bread  box. 

Gluten  Bread. ‚Äî One  quart  gluten  flour,  Yg  teaspoonful  salt,  1 
teaspoonf ul  butter,  lYg  cup  warm  milk  or  water,  Yg  yeast  cake.  Put 
flour,  salt,  and  butter  into  a  bowl,  rub  the  butter  fine  into  the  flour, 
dissolve  the  yeast  in  a  little  of  the  milk,  pour  it  in  the  center  of 
flour,  add  the  remaining  milk,  and  work  the  whole  into  a  dough ; 
turn  it  on  to  a  floured  board,  and  work  the  dough  until  it  does  not 
stick  to  the  hands.  Eeturn  it  to  the  bowl,  cover,  and  let  stand  to 
rise  to  double  its  height ;  then  mold  into  a  loaf,  place  in  a  buttered 
pan,  let  it  rise  again  till  very  light,  then  bake  in  a  medium-hot  oven 
1  hour. 

Rye  Bread. ‚Äî Sift  1  quart  of  rye  flour  into  a  bowl,  add  1  tea- 
spoonful  salt,  Y2  ounce  lard.  Break  1  yeast  cake  into  a  cup  of  luke- 
warm milk,  add  1  teaspoonful  sugar,  let  it  stand  in  a  warm  place 
until  the  yeast  rises  to  the  surface.  Eub  flour  and  lard  together, 
make  a  hollow  in  center,  pour  in  the  yeast,  add  1  cup  of  warm 
milk  or  water,  and  mix  this  with  a  spoon  into  a  thick  batter,  cover 
and  set  the  bowl  in  a  warm  place  to  rise  to  double  its  size ;  then 
add  sufficient  wheat  flour  to  work  it  into  a  smooth,  firm  dough, 
turn  on  to  a  floured  board  and  knead  it  till  it  does  not  stick  to 
the  hands.  Then  mold  it  into  a  long-shaped  loaf,  put  into  a  long, 
shallow  tin  pan  previously  buttered  ;  let  rise  until  it  begins  to 
crack ;  brush  over  with  cold  coffee  or  milk,  and  bake  1  hour  in  a 
medium-hot  oven.  When  done,  remove  and  wrap  the  bread  in  a 
napkin  until  cold.  The  dough  for  rye  bread  should  be  firmer  than 
for  wheat  bread ;  otherwise  it  will  spread  in  the  pan  and  become  too 
flat.  The  bread  when  done  should  have  a  fine  golden-colored  crust 
all  around. 

Boston  Brown  Bread. ‚Äî Put  Y2  pint  rye  flour,  Y2  pint  Graham 
flour,  Y2  pint  Indian  meal  in  a  bowl,  add  Y2  pint  water,  1  teaspoon- 
ful salt,  Y2  pint  molasses ;  dissolve  1  teaspoonful  baking  soda  in  a  lit- 


552  BREAD,  CAKES,  Etc. 

tie  hot  water,  add  it  to  the  flour,  mix  all  together,  fill  the  prepara- 
tion in  a  buttered  Boston-brown-bread  form,  set  the  form  in  a 
saucepan  of  boiling  water,  let  the  water  reach  half  way  up,  cover 
and  boil  4  hours. 

Baisin  Bread. ‚Äî Break  2  yeast  cakes  into  1  cup  of  lukewarm 
milk,  add  1  teaspoonful  sugar,  set  the  cup  in  a  warm  place  till  the 
yeast  rises  to  the  surface.  Sift  1  pint  of  flour  into  a  bowl,  add  1 
teaspoonful  salt,  1  cup  lukewarm  milk,  and  the  yeast,  mix  into  a 
smooth  batter ;  cover  and  set  it  in  a  warm  place  to  rise  till  very 
light,  which  will  take  about  1  hour.  In  the  meantime  stir  6  ounces 
butter  with  6  ounces  sugar  to  a  cream,  add  2  eggs  and  the  grated 
rind  of  1  lemon^  mix  well  together ;  then  add  the  sponge  and  suffi- 
cient flour  to  make  a  soft  dough.  Turn  it  on  to  a  floured  board  ;  add 
Ya  cupful  seedless  raisins  and  1  cupful  fine-sliced  citron  ;  work  until  it 
does  not  stick  to  the  hands.  Return  the  dough  to  the  bowl,  cover 
and  let  it  rise  in  a  warm  place  to  double  its  size,  then  mold  it  lightly 
into  a  loaf,  put  into  a  round  buttered  form  or  in  a  form  with  a 
tube  in  center ;  let  it  rise  again  to  double  its  size,  brush  over  with 
beaten  egg  mixed  with  a  little  milk,  and  bake  1  hour  in  a  medium- 
hot  oven,  or  till  done. 

Tienna  Rolls. ‚Äî Break  2  yeast  cakes  into  Yg  cup  of  lukewarm 
milk,  add  1  teaspoonful  sugar,  let  stand  till  the  yeast  rises  to  the 
surface.  Put  1  cup  sifted  flour  into  a  bowl,  add  the  yeast,  and  mix 
to  a  soft  dough ;  lay  it  into  a  bowl,  pour  over  Ys  gill  warm  milk, 
cover  and  let  stand  till  very  light  (this  is  called  leaven).  In  the 
meantime  sift  3  pints  flour  into  a  bowl,  add  2  tablespoonfuls  sugar, 
1  teaspoonful  salt,  and  IY2  cupful  lukewarm  milk,  and  work  into  a 
firm  dough ;  put  it  on  to  a  floured  board  and  knead  well ;  then  break 
the  dough  into  small  pieces,  knead  them  again  together  into  a  smooth 
dough  ;  repeat  this  three  times ;  then  add  in  small  pieces  2  ounces  of 
butter.  Knead  the  dough  five  minutes  longer,  then  add  the  leaven ; 
work  until  the  dough  is  perfectly  smooth  and  does  not  stick  to  the 
hands,  adding  more  flour  if  necessary.     Lay  the  dough  in  a  warm 


BREAD,  CAK:ES,  Etc.  553 

bowl,  cover  and  let  rise  to  double  its  size.  Then  divide  the  dough 
in  small  parts  2  ounces  in  weight ;  roll  each-  into  a  round  ball, 
then  roll  them  lengthwise  and  pointed  at  the  ends,  set  them  in 
buttered  tin  pans,  cover  and  let  rise  till  light.  Make  with  a  small 
sharp  knife  2  small  incisions  on  top  of  each  ;  mix  1  beaten  egg 
with  3  tablespoonfuls  milk,  brush  the  rolls  over  with  this,  and  bake 
in  a  medium-hot  oven  to  a  fine  golden  color  and  well  done.  Ke- 
move  and  serve  hot  in  a  napkin. 

HOrnchens. ‚Äî Prepare  and  divide  into  2-ounce  pieces  a  dough 
the  same  as  in  foregoing  recipe,  roll  with  the  hand  each  piece  of 
dough  into  a  round  ball,  and  place  them  for  Ys  hour  in  a  warm 
place.  Then  roll  with  a  rolling  pin  each  one  into  a  4-inch-square 
piece,  brush  over  with  melted  butter ;  start  rolling  up  at  one  corner 
and  roll  toward  the  opposite  corners,  lay  them  on  buttered  tins  in 
the  form  of  a  horseshoe ;  cover  and  let  rise  till  light,  which  will 
take  from  30  to  40  minutes.  Mix  1  beaten  egg  with  3  tablespoon- 
fuls milk,  brush  the  hornchens  over  with  this,  and  bake  in  a  medi- 
um-hot oven  to  a  delicate-brown  color. 

Horns. ‚Äî Prepare  a  dough  the  same  as  in  foregoing  recipe,  roll 
it  out  Y2  inch  in  thickness,  cut  it  out  with  a  cutter  in  shapes  like 
half  moons,  lay  these  in  a  buttered  pan,  not  too  close  together,  and 
let  rise  till  light ;  then  brush  over  with  beaten  egg  and  bake  light 
brown  in  a  medium-hot  oven.  Mix  the  white  of  1  egg  with  1  table- 
spoonful  milk  and  the  same  of  sugar ;  as  soon  as  the  horns  are  done 
draw  them  to  front  of  oven,  brush  over  with  the  egg  mixture, 
sprinkle  over  some  fine-chopped  almonds  and  granulated  sugar,  re- 
turn to  oven  a  few  minutes.     Eemove  and  serve  when  cold. 

Finger  Rolls. ‚Äî Prepare  a  dough  the  same  as  for  Vienna  rolls, 
divide,  the  dough  into  pieces  of  Y2  pound  each,  roll  these  into  a 
rope  and  cut  each  into  10  equal-sized  pieces,  roll  each  into  a  round 
ball ;  then  roll  out  to  the  shape  of  small  rolls  3  inches  long  and 
pointed  at  both  ends.     Lay  into  buttered  finger  pans,  not  too  close 


554:  BREAD,  CAKES,  Etc. 

together,  let  rise  till  light,  brush  over  with  beaten  egg,  and  bake  to 
a  fine  golden  color  iu  a  moderatly  hot  oven. 

Elsf elder  Kranzel. ‚Äî Break  2  yeast  cakes  in  a  cup  of  warm 

milk,  add  1  teaspoonful  sugar,  let  it  stand  until  the  yeast  rises  to 
the  surface.  Sift  1  pint  of  flour  in  a  warm  bowl,  make  a  hollow  in 
the  center,  pour  in  the  yeast  and  1  cup  of  warm  milk,  add  1  tea- 
spoonful  salt,  and  mix  the  whole  into  a  batter ;  cover  and  set  in  a  warm 
place  to  rise  till  light.  Then  stir  4  ounces  butter  with  4  ounces  sugar 
to  a  cream,  add  by  degrees  2  eggs  and  the  tine-chopped  peel  of  1  lemon, 
stir  this  into  the  light  sponge ;  add  sufficient  flour  to  make  a  soft 
dough,  turn  the  dough  on  to  a  board,  and  work  till  it  ceases  stick- 
ing to  the  hands.  Return  it  to  the  bowl,  cover  and  let  rise  to 
double  its  size ;  then  lay  the  dough  on  to  a  floured  board  and  roll  it 
out  1  inch  in  thickness,  spread  a  layer  of  fruit  marmalade  over, 
and  roll  up  like  a  music  roll.  Lay  the  roll  in  a  buttered  pan 
in  the  shape  of  a  horseshoe,  let  rise  again  until  very  light,  then 
brush  over  with  beaten  egg,  and  bake  in  a  medium-hot  oven  till 
done.  In  the  meantime  mix  the  white  of  1  egg  with  1  tablespoon- 
ful  milk  and  1  tablespoonful  sugar.  When  the  kranzel  is  done 
brush  this  all  over  the  cake  and  sprinkle  over  2  tablespoonfuls 
granulated  sugar,  return  it  for  a  few  minutes  to  the  oven,  and  serve 
when  cold. 

Hot  Cross  Buns. ‚Äî Break  1  yeast  cake  into  1  cupful  lukewarm 
milk,  add  1  teaspoonful  sugar,  place  the  cup  in  a  warm  place  till 
the  yeast  rises  to  the  surface.  Sift  1  cup  of  flour  into  a  bowl,  add 
the  yeast  and  ^/^  teaspoonful  salt,  mix  it  into  a  sponge,  cover  and 
let  stand  in  a  warm  place  till  light.  Then  stir  2  ounces  butter 
with  2  tablespoonfuls  sugar  to  a  cream,  add  the  grated  rind  of  Yg 
lemon  and  1  egg,  stir  this  into  the  light  sponge ;  add  1  cupful  well- 
washed  and  dried  currants  and  sufficient  flour  to  make  a  soft  dough. 
Turn  the  dough  on  to  a  floured  board  and  work  till  it  ceases  stick- 
ing to  the  hands,  return  to  bowl,  cover  and  let  rise  in  a  warm  place 
to  double  its  size.     Then  divide  the  dough  into  small  egg-sized 


BREAD,  CAKES,  Etc.  555 

pieces,  roll  these  with  the  palm  of  the  hand  into  round  balls,  set  in 
a  buttered  baking  pan,  not  too  close  together,  cover  and  let  rise  till 
light,  brush  over  with  beaten  egg,  and  bake  in  a  medium-hot  oven 
till  done.  The  dough  may  be  rolled  out  to  %  inch  in  thickness  and 
cut  out  the  same  as  biscuits  and  laid  Yg  inch  apart  in  buttered  pans. 

Nuss  Beugeln. ‚Äî Break  1  yeast  cake  into  1  cupful  lukewarm 
milk,  add  1  teaspoonful  sugar,  set  in  a  warm  place  till  the  yeast 
rises  to  the  surface.  Sift  %  pint  of  flour  into  a  bowl,  add  Yg  tea- 
spoonful  salt  and  the  yeast,  mix  all  into  a  smooth  batter,  cover  and 
let  it  rise  in  a  warm  place  till  light,  about  40  minutes.  Stir  2 
ounces  butter  with  2  ounces  sugar  to  a  cream,  add  2  eggs,  one  at  a 
time,  and  the  fine-chopped  peel  of  Ys  lemon  ;  add  the  above  sponge 
and  sufficient  flour  to  make  a  soft  dough,  turn  it  on  to  a  floured 
board,  and  work  until  no  longer  adhering  to  the  hands.  Eeturn  the 
dough  to  the  bowl,  cover  and  let  it  rise  in  a  warm  place  to  double 
its  size.  In  the  meantime  prepare  the  filling  as  follows  :  Mix  the 
yolks  of  3  eggs  with  the  grated  rind  of  Y2  lemon,  4  ounces  fine- 
chopped  blanched  almonds,  and  4  ounces  powdered  sugar.  As  soon 
as  the  dough  has  risen  to  the  desired  lightness  turn  it  on  to  a 
floured  board,  divide  it  into  2  parts,  roll  each  part  with  a  rolling  pin 
separately  out  to  Ys  iiich  thickness,  lay  1  part  aside,  and  cover  the 
remainder  with  small  portions  of  the  above-mentioned  almond  fill- 
ing (about  the  size  of  a  pigeon's  egg)  lYs  inch  apart ;  then  moisten 
the  dough  around  the  filling  with  a  brush  dipped  in  water.  Lay 
over  the  other  part  of  dough,  press  it  around  the  filling  with  the 
finger,  then  cut  them  out  with  a  round  cutter  either  into  round  or 
half-moon  shapes.  Set  in  buttered  shallow  tin  pans,  let  rise  in  a 
warm  place  till  light,  then  brush  over  with  beaten  egg,  and  bake  in 
a  medium-hot  oven  to  a  fine  golden  color  until  done.  Mix  the  white 
of  1  egg  with  1  tablespoonful  powdered  sugar  and  1  tablespoonful 
milk,  brush  this  over  the  cakes  as  soon  as  done.  Sprinkle  over  some 
fine-chopped  almonds  and  a  little  granulated  sugar,  return  for  a  few 
minutes  to  the  oven,  then  remove  and  serve  when  cold. 


556  BREAD,  CAKES,  Etc. 

Butterkuchen. ‚Äî Sift  lYg  cup  flour  in  a  bowl,  add  %  tea- 
spoonful  salt ;  break  1  yeast  cake  into  small  pieces  in  Y^  cup  of 
warm  milk,  add  1  teaspoonful  sugar,  and  let  stand  until  the  yeast 
rises  to  the  surface,  then  add  it  to  the  flour ;  add  1  cup  warm  milk 
and  mix  it  with  a  spoon  into  a  smooth  batter.  Cover  and  set  in  a 
warm  place  to  rise  till  very  light.  Then  stir  Y2  cup  butter  with  Y2 
cup  sugar  to  a  cream,  add  2  eggs  (one  at  a  time,  stirring  a  few  min- 
utes between  each  addition) ;  add  the  grated  rind  of  1  lemon,  the 
sponge,  and  sufficient  flour  to  make  a  firm  soft  dough.  Return  the 
dough  to  the  bowl,  cover,  set  in  a  warm  place  until  the  dough  has 
risen  to  double  its  size,  then  divide  it  into  3  equal  parts ;  the  best 
way  would  be  to  weigh  them.  Do  not  handle  the  dough  any  more 
than  may  be  helped.  Eoll  each  part  out  with  a  rolling  pin,  about 
Y2  inch  in  thickness,  put  it  into  a  long  shallow  buttered  pan,  set  it 
for  the  third  time  in  a  warm  place  to  rise  to  double  its  height ; 
then  pour  over  each  cake  2  ounces  melted  butter,  sprinkle  over  each 
3  tablespoonfuls  granulated  sugar  and  a  little  cinnamon  ;  place  in  a 
hot  oven,  and  bake  to  a  fine  color  and  well  done.  Then  turn  the 
butterkuchen  out  of  pan.  When  cold  cut  each  cake  into  half,  lay 
the  2  halves  together  with  the  sugared  sides  facing  each  other,  and 
then  place  them  in  a  stone  jar  or  cake  box. 


CAKES,  TOB.TEN,  Etc. 

Jessaline  Cake. ‚Äî Half  pound  butter,  Y2  pound  flour,  the 
of  8  eggs  and  6  whites,  1  teaspoonful  baking  powder,  the  grated 
rind  of  1  lemon,  and  Yg  teaspoonful  vanilla  extract.  Stir  the  butter 
to  a  cream,  add  the  sugar,  stir  30  minutes ;  then  add  the  yolks 
one  at  a  time.  Sift  flour  and  baking  powder  together,  beat  the 
whites  to  a  stiff  froth,  add  the  above  preparation  in  small  por- 
tions to  the  whites,  add  lastly  the  flour  and  Yg  pound  of  fine-sliced 
candied  fruit  lightly  dusted  with  flour,  put  the  preparation  in  a 
buttered  and  paper-lined  pan,  and  bake  1  hour  in  medium-hot  oven. 
When  done,  remove  the  cake,  let  it  rest  for  a  few  minutes,  turn  it 
out  of  pan,  and  when  cold  ice  with  wine  glaze.  (For  wine  glaze, 
see  my  book  Desserts  and  Salads,  recipe  924.) 

Bonsalina  Cake. ‚Äî Three  quarters  cupful  butter,  1  cup  powdered 
sugar,  the  whites  of  6  eggs,  1  pint  of  flour,  1  heaping  teaspoonful 
powder,  Y4  cupful  milk,  1  teaspoonful  orange  extract.  Wash  the 
butter  in  cold  water,  then  place  it  in  a  bowl,  add  the  sugar,  and  stir 
it  to  a  light  white  cream  ;  sift  the  baking  powder  and  flour  together, 
add  it  gradually  alternately  with  the  milk,  the  beaten  whites  to  the 
creamed  butter  and  sugar,  add  the  flavoring.  Pour  the  mixture 
into  2  jelly  tins  (previously  buttered  and  floured),  spread  it  even 
with  a  knife,  and  bake  in  a  medium-hot  oven.  When  done  remove 
and  let  them  rest  for  a  few  minutes,  then  turn  them  out  on  to  a 
paper,  which  should  be  dusted  with  powdered  sugar ;  when  cold 
prepare  a  filling  as  follows  :  Boil  1  cup  of  sugar  with  Ys  cupful 
water  until  it  forms  a  thread  between  2  fingers,  then  add  1  table- 
spoonful  best  rum.     Beat  the  whites  of  2  eggs  to  a  still  froth,  add 

557 


558  CAKES,  TORTEN,  Etc. 

a  little  pink  coloring,  pour  in  the  boiling  sugar  while  beating  con- 
stantly, add  Yg  teaspoonful  vanilla  and  4  ounces  fine-chopped  pecan 
nuts ;  spread  this  over  the  cake,  put  on  the  other  layer,  pour  over 
first  a  pink  sugar  glaze,  then  a  thin  white  glaze,  and  put  a  border  of 
candied  rose  leaves  around  the  edge.  For  glaze  :  Put  1  cup  of  sifted 
powdered  sugar  in  a  saucepan,  add  2  tablespoonfuls  water,  stir  over 
the  fire  until  lukewarm  ;  add  a  little  pink  paste,  pour  it  over  the 
cake,  leave  the  second  icing  white. 

Peanut  Cakes. ‚Äî Stir  4  ounces  butter  with  Y2  pint  of  powdered 
sugar  to  a  light  white  cream,  add  the  yolks  of  2  eggs  and  1  whole 
egg,  stir  5  minutes,  flavor  with  the  grated  rind  of  1  lemon  ;  then 
sift  Y2  pound  of  flour  with  1  teaspoonful  baking  powder,  add  the 
flour  alternately  with  1  gill  of  milk  to  the  above  mixture.  Butter  2 
medium-sized  jelly  tins  and  sprinkle  them  with  bread  crumbs, 
divide  the  cake  batter  equal  in  the  pans,  smooth  them  over  with  a 
broad-bladed  knife,  and  bake  in  a  medium-hot  oven  till  done.  In 
the  meantime  shell  1  quart  of  peanuts  and  break  half  of  them  in 
pieces.  Boil  1  cup  of  sugar  with  Ys  cupful  water  until  it  begins  to 
turn  yellow  ;  have  the  whites  of  2  eggs  beaten  to  a  stiff  froth,  add 
slowly  the  boiling  sugar  while  beating  constantly,  add  1  tablespoon- 
ful  Jamaica  rum  or  2  of  sherry  wine,  and  set  for  a  few  minutes 
aside  to  cool.  When  the  cakes  are  done  remove,  turn  them  on  to  a 
paper  on  which  a  little  powdered  sugar  has  been  sprinkled.  After 
a  few  minutes  move  them  to  keep  from  sticking  to  the  paper  ;  when 
nearly  cold  lay  1  cake  upside  down  on  a  plate,  spread  over  one  half 
the  icing,  cover  with  the  broken  peanuts,  lay  the  remaining  cake 
over  it,  cover  with  icing,  and  decorate  with  whole  peanuts. 

Genoises. ‚Äî Half  pound  flour,  Ya  pound  sugar,  Y2  pound  butter, 
3  whole  eggs,  2  yolks,  the  grated  rind  of  1  lemon.  Put  the  3  eggs 
and  the  2  yolks  in  a  bowl,  beat  them  until  light,  add  first  the  sugar, 
stir  10  minutes,  then  add  the  sifted  flour ;  next  add  slowly  the 
melted  butter,  the  lemon,  and  last  the  beaten  whites  of  2  eggs. 
Line  a  long  shallow  pan  with  buttered  paper,  spread  the  mixture  in 


CAKES,  TORTBN,  Etc.  559 

the  pan,  and  bake  in  a  medium-hot  oven.  When  done  remove  it 
from  the  oven,  glaze  it  with  wine  glaze,  and  cut  it  into  small  pieces. 
Or  cut  it  into  fancy  shapes,  like  half  moons,  etc.,  and  ice  them  with 
pink  and  white  icing.  (See  my  book  Desserts  and  Salads,  recipe 
927.) 

Konig's  Torte.‚Äî Chop  fine  4  ounces  blanched  almonds,  add  1 
teaspoonful  cinnamon,  a  pinch  of  cloves  and  mace,  2  ounces  fine- 
chopped  peanuts,  2  ounces  fine-cut  citron,  the  grated  rind  and  juice 
of  Y2  lemon,  2  ounces  seedless  raisins,  2Y3  ounces  bread  crumbs ; 
moisten  with  wine  or  brandy.  Stir  the  yolks  of  7  eggs  with  4 
ounces  sugar  to  a  cream,  add  the  above  ingredients  and  the  7  whites 
beaten  to  a  stiff  froth,  bake  in  a  paper-lined  form ;  when  done  and 
cold,  glaze  the  cake  with  the  following  glaze  :  Mix  1  cupful  sifted 
powdered  sugar  with  2  tablespoonfuls  sherry  wine,  stir  over  the  fire 
till  lukewarm,  then  pour  it  over  the  cake. 

Hazelnut  Torte  a  L'Emmita. ‚Äî Two  ounces  blanched  hazel- 
nuts, 2  ounces  almonds,  6  ounces  sugar,  the  yolks  and  the  whites 
separate  of  8  eggs,  2  ounces  fine  bread  crumbs,  1  ounce  sifted  flour. 
Pound  the  nuts  with  the  whites  of  eggs  to  a  paste  in  a  mortar,  add 
the  yolks  and  sugar,  and  stir  Yg  hour ;  add  the  bread  crumbs  and 
beaten  whites,  and  lastly  the  sifted  flour.  Bake  in  2  paper-lined 
jelly  tins  to  a  delicate  brown.  Prepare  filling  as  follows :  Stir  3 
ounces  butter  to  a  light  white  cream,  add  the  yolks  of  2  eggs,  one  at 
a  time,  while  constantly  stirring  ;  next  2Y3  tablespoonfuls  powdered 
sugar,  1  teaspoonful  vanilla  extract,  IY2  ounce  fine-cut  citron,  3 
ounces  fine-cut  hazelnuts,  2  ounces  fine-cut  pistachio,  and  3  to  4 
tablespoonfuls  Madeira  or  sherry  wine.  Mix  all  well  together  and 
put  between  the  2  cake  layers.  Ornament  the  top  with  white 
icing,  like  lattice  work. 

Schaumtorte  a  L'Annita. ‚Äî Make  2  layers  of  cake  as  in  fore- 
going recipe,  and  put  whipped  cream  sweetened  with  sugar  and 
mixed  with  fine-cut  hazelnuts  between  the  2  layers.  Cover  the 
cake  with  a  thick  layer  of  the  same  cream,  and  set  blanched  hazel- 


560  CAKES,  TORTEN,  Etc. 

nuts  around  the  edge  of  cake.     A  little  dissolved  gelatine  may  be 
added  to  the  cream. 

Brodtorte. ‚Äî One  half  pound  blanched  almonds  chopped  fine, 
14  eggs,  1  pound  powdered  sugar,  Y4  pound  rye  bread  crumbs,  y^ 
pound  macaroons  rolled  fine,  2  tablespoonfuls  grated  chocolate,  2 
teaspoonfuls  cinnamon,  1  nutmeg  grated,  the  grated  rind  of  2 
lemons,  Y4  pound  fine-cut  citron,  Yg  cup  of  brandy  or  rum.  Cut  rye 
bread  into  slices  and  dry  in  the  oven,  then  roll  fine  with  a  rolling 
pin  ;  after  rolling,  weigh  the  crumbs,  take  Y4  pound  and  wet  with 
the  brandy.  Put  the  sugar  into  a  large  wooden  bowl,  make  a  hollow 
in  center,  put  in  1  yolk  at  a  time  and  stir  with  a  wooden  spoon ; 
add  gradually  all  the  yolks,  continue  stirring  for  %  hour  ;  then  add 
by  degrees  while  stirring  constantly  all  the  above  ingredients,  and 
last  the  whites  beaten  to  a  stiff  froth.  Line  with  buttered  paper  a 
large  round  cake  pan  about  3  inches  deep  and  12  inches  in  diameter, 
pour  in  the  cake  mixture  and  bake  in  slow  oven.  AVhen  done  put  a 
chocolate  icing  over  the  top  and  sides  of  cake  and  place  it  for  5 
minutes  in  the  oven.  (For  chocolate  glaze,  see  my  book  Desserts 
and  Salads,  recipe  937.) 

Mandeltorte. ‚Äî Scald  Y2  pound  sweet  and  lYs  ounce  bitter  al- 
monds in  boiling  water,  remove  the  brown  skin,  spread  the  nuts  out 
on  a  paper,  and  when  dry  grind  thera  fine.  Stir  the  yolks  of  10 
eggs  with  IY4  cup  powdered  sugar  for  Y2  hour,  add  the  grated  rind 
of  1  lemon,  4  tablespoonfuls  fine  white  bread  crumbs,  the  grated  al- 
monds, and  lastly  the  whites  of  8  eggs  beaten  to  a  stiff  froth.  Bake  in 
a  buttered  and  paper-lined  form  for  1  hour.  Eemove  from  the  oven, 
let  stand  a  few  minutes,  then  turn  out  of  form,  and  when  cold  ice 
with  following  icing :  Place  2  cups  of  sifted  powdered  sugar  in  a  small 
saucepan,  add  3  tablespoonfuls  water,  1  tablespoonful  lemon  juice, 
stir  it  over  the  fire  until  lukewarm,  then  pour  it  over  the  cake ;  deco- 
rate the  top  with  blanched  almonds  or  with  pink  candied  almonds. 

Sandtorte. ‚Äî Twelve  ounces  powdered  sugar,  6  ounces  potato 
flour  or  cornstarch,  6  ounces  flour,  12  ounces  melted  and  strained 


CAKES,  TORTEN,  Etc.  561 

butter,  the  grated  rind  of  1  lemon,  12  eggs.  Beat  the  12  whites  to 
a  stiff  froth,  add  by  degrees  first  the  yolks,  then  the  sugar ;  set  the 
bowl  in  a  pan  of  hot  water  and  beat  till  warm  ;  then  remove.  Beat 
till  nearly  cold,  strain  the  melted  butter  into  a  cup,  continue  the 
beating  with  the  right  hand,  holding  the  cup  with  the  butter  in  the 
left ;  pour  the  butter  gradually  into  the  mixture.  Butter  a  round 
cake  pan,  line  it  with  tissue  paper,  pour  in  the  cake  mixture. 
Cover  the  bottom  of  a  pie  plate  with  salt,  set  the  pan  with  cake 
mixture  on  to  this,  and  bake  1  hour  in  an  oven  not  too  hot  (if  it 
browns  too  much,  put  buttered  paper  over).  When  done  remove  it 
from  oven,  let  rest  for  a  few  minutes,  then  carefully  turn  out  of 
pan,  and  when  cold  pour  over  following  glaze  :  Put  2  cupfuls  finely 
sifted  powdered  sugar  in  a  small  saucepan,  add  4  tablespoonfuls 
orange  Juice,  place  the  saucepan  over  the  fire,  stir  until  lukewarm  ; 
then  pour  it  over  the  cake,  and  decorate  with  pink  cinnamon  straws. 

Angel  Cake. ‚Äî One  and  a  half  cup  of  granulated  sugar,  the 
whites  of  11  eggs,  1  teaspoonful  essence  of  vanilla,  Yg  pint  flour,  1 
teaspoonful  cream  of  tartar ;  sift  flour  and  cream  of  tartar  3  times, 
beat  the  whites  to  a  stiff  froth,  add  gradually  the  sugar,  then  the 
vanilla,  and  last  the  flour.  Butter  a  cake  mold  and  dust  it  with 
flour,  pour  in  the  mixture,  and  bake  in  a  slow  oven  about  %  hour. 
Then  pour  the  following  glaze  over  it :  Mix  in  a  small  saucepan  1 
cup  of  sifted  powdered  sugar  with  Yg  gill  of  cold  water,  Ys  gi^l 
sherry  wine,  and  Ys  teaspoonful  vanilla  extract ;  stir  over  the  fire 
until  hot,  then  pour  over  the  cake,  and  when  dry  cover  it  with 
the  following  icing :  Mix  the  white  of  1  egg  with  6  ounces  sifted 
powdered  sugar,  beat  for  10  minutes,  then  spread  over  the  cake, 
let  dry  in  a  cool  place. 

St.  Julia  Sultana. ‚Äî Prepare  a  fine  paste  as  in  recipe  663  of 
my  book  Desserts  and  Salads ;  roll  out  Y4  inch  in  thickness,  lay  over 
it  a  tin  plate,  and  cut  the  paste  off  close  to  the  edge  ;  then  lay  the 
round  piece  of  paste  on  to  a  round  piece  of  buttered  paper,  lay  the 
paper  in  a  large  shallow  tin  pan,  decorate  the  edge  Avith  a  border  of 


562  CAKES,  TORTEN,  Etc, 

leaves  cut  from  the  remaining  paste ;  or  put  some  pate-a-chou  in  a 
paper  funnel  and  squirt  a  border  around  the  edge  1  inch  high; 
then  squirt  small  rills  toward  the  center  of  round,  so  that  the  sul- 
tana may  be  cut  by  these  rills.  Brush  the  whole  over  with  beaten 
egg,  and  bake  in  a  medium-hot  oven  till  done.  Then  prepare  a 
pate-a-chou  as  follows  :  Place  a  saucepan  with  2  ounces  butter,  Yg 
pint  milk,  a  pinch  of  salt,  1  tablespoonful  sugar  over  the  fire ;  as 
soon  as  it  boils  add  4  ounces  flour,  stir  until  it  loosens  from  the 
saucepan,  then  remove,  and  when  nearly  cold  mix  with  the  yolks  of 
5  eggs  and  the  beaten  whites  of  2 ;  stir  until  perfectly  smooth. 
Then  put  with  a  teaspoon  small  portions  on  a  buttered  tin,  brush 
over  with  beaten  egg,  and  bake  in  a  quick  oven  till  done.  Eemove, 
and  when  cold  fill  with  pink  whipped  cream  and  ice  with  pink  or 
white  icing  ;  then  fasten  with  white  of  egg  and  sugar  on  to  the  edge 
of  the  above  paste  V/^  inch  apart ;  put  between  the  cream  cakes 
some  candied  cherries,  pineapples,  and  plums ;  spread  over  the  sur- 
face strawberry  marmalade  and  fill  the  center  with  whipped  cream. 

Gateau  a  la  Carey. ‚Äî Two  cups  flour,  %  cup  butter,  1  cup  pow- 
dered sugar,  6  eggs,  1  teaspoonful  lemon  or  vanilla  extract.  Wash 
the  butter  in  several  cold  waters,  and  dry  it  in  a  napkin.  Put  but- 
ter in  a  mixing  bowl  and  stir  it  with  a  silver  spoon  for  10  minutes ; 
add  to  this  %  the  sugar,  and  stir  20  minutes  more ;  next  add  the 
yolks  one  at  a  time,  stirring  a  few  minutes  between  each  addition. 
Beat  the  whites  to  a  stiff  froth  ;  add  the  lemon  and  the  remaining 
Y2  cup  sugar,  beat  for  5  minutes ;  then  add  slowly  by  spoonfuls  the 
above  mixture  while  constantly  beating  with  an  egg  beater.  Sift 
the  flour  3  times,  stir  it  lightly  through  the  mixture,  bake  in  a  well- 
buttered  and  paper-lined  form  1  hour  in  medium-hot  oven.  If  the 
cake  should  brown  too  much  on  top  put  a  piece  of  buttered  paper 
over.  Eemove  when  done,  when  cold  cover  with  a  layer  of  pineapple 
marmalade,  then  ice  it  carefully  with  sugar  glaze  (see  recipe  927  in 
my  book  Desserts  and  Salads),  and  decorate  the  tops  with  candied 
plums. 


CAKES,  TORTEN,  Etc.  563 

Gateau  a  la  Clarita. ‚Äî One  half  cupful  butter,  2  cups  flour, 
with  1  heaping  teaspoonful  baking  powder,  1  cup  powdered  sugar, 
the  whites  of  6  eggs,  %  cupful  milk,  1  teaspoonful  orange  extract. 
Wash  the  butter  in  cold  water,  then  place  it  in  a  bowl,  add  the 
sugar,  and  stir  to  a  light  white  cream  ;  sift  the  baking  powder  and 
flour  together,  add  it  gradually  and  alternately  with  the  milk  and 
the  beaten  whites  to  the  creamed  butter  and  sugar,  lastly  add  the 
flavoring.  Pour  the  mixture  into  2  previously  buttered  and  floured 
jelly  tins,  spread  it  even  with  a  knife  and  bake  in  a  medium-hot 
oven.  When  done  remove  and  let  rest  for  a  few  minutes,  then  turn 
on  to  paper,  which  should  be  dusted  with  powdered  sugar.  When 
cold  prepare  a  filling  as  follows  :  Boil  1  cup  of  sugar  with  Yg  cupful 
water,  then  add  1  tablespoonful  best  rum.  Beat  the  whites  of  2 
eggs  to  a  stiff  froth,  add  a  little  pink  coloring,  pour  in  the  boiling 
sugar  while  constantly  beating,  add  Yg  teaspoonful  vanilla  and  4 
ounces  fine-chopped  pecan  nuts  ;  spread  this  over  the  cake,  put  on 
the  other  layer,  pour  over  first  a  pink  sugar  glaze,  then  a  thin  white 
glaze,  and  put  a  border  of  candied  rose  leaves  around  the  edge. 
For  glaze  put  1  cup  of  sifted  powdered  sugar  in  a  saucepan,  add  2 
tablespoonfuls  water,  stir  over  the  fire  until  lukewarm,  add  a  little 
pink  paste,  pour  it  over  the  cake,  prepare  the  second  icing  the  same 
way  without  the  pink  paste. 

Gateau  a  la  Maseras. ‚Äî Half  a  pound  each  of  sliced  candied 
fruit,  pineapple,  cherries,  and  plums  ;  Ys  pound  powdered  sugar,  Ys 
pound  flour  sifted  3  times  with  1  teaspoonful  baking  powder,  Y2 
pound  melted  butter,  7  eggs,  and  the  rind  of  1  lemon.  Beat  the 
7  whites  to  a  stiff  froth,  and  add  by  degrees  the  yolks,  and  then 
gradually  the  sugar,  beating  constantly  with  the  egg  beater  ;  set  the 
bowl  in  a  pan  of  hot  water,  beating  till  warm,  then  rem.ove  and  beat 
till  nearly  cold.  Strain  the  melted  butter  into  a  cup,  hold  the  cup 
in  the  left  hand,  pour  the  butter  slowly  into  the  mixture,  then  add 
the  sifted  flour,  next  the  floured  fruit ;  pour  into  a  paper-lined  form, 
and  bake  in  a  slow  oven  1  hour.     Remove  from  oven,  let  it  rest  a 


564  CAKES,  TORTEN,  Etc. 

few  minutes,  then  turn  it  out,  and  when  cold  cover  the  top  with  a 
layer  of  pineapple  marmalade.  Put  over  the  pineapples  the  follow- 
ing glaze  :  Mix  lYg  cupful  powdered  sugar  with  3  tablespoonfuls 
orange  juice,  stir  over  the  fire  till  lukewarm,  pour  it  over  the  cake 
and  sides  ;  then  decorate  with  8  candied  plums. 

Biscuit  a  L'Elcita. ‚Äî Four  ounces  powdered  sugar,  Yg  pound 
almond  paste,  4  ounces  flour  sifted  with  1  teaspoonful  baking  pow- 
der, the  yolks  of  4  eggs  and  the  whites  of  8,  4  ounces  melted  butter. 
Stir  the  sugar  and  4  yolks  to  a  cream,  add  the  almond  paste  in 
small  portions,  stir  15  minutes ;  then  gradually  add  the  melted 
butter,  stir  10  minutes.  Beat  the  whites  to  a  stiff  froth,  add  the 
almond  preparation  by  spoonfuls  to  the  whites  while  constantly 
beating.  Sift  the  flour  and  baking  powder  3  times,  add  it  slowly  to 
the  mixture,  stir  for  a  few  minutes,  then  fill  into  a  buttered  and 
paper-lined  form,  and  bake  in  a  slow  oven  about  1  hour  or  till  done ; 
then  remove,  let  the  cake  rest  for  a  few  minutes,  turn  it  out  of  form, 
and  when  cold  ice  it  with  following  glaze :  Put  V-j^  cup  of  sifted 
powdered  sugar  in  a  small  saucepan,  add  3  tablespoonfuls  sherry 
wine ;  place  the  saucepan  over  the  fire  and  stir  till  lukewarm,  then 
pour  it  over  the  top  and  sides  of  cake. 

Charlotte  de  Russe.‚Äî Whip  1  pint  of  cream  till  stiff  and 
place  it  for  1  hour  on  ice.  Fit  neatly  a  piece  of  writing  paper  in 
the  bottom  of  a  1-quart  charlotte-de-russe  form.  Split  12  lady 
fingers,  cut  them  into  even  lengths  and  straight  on  sides.  Mix  1 
tablespoonful  white  of  egg  with  2  or  3  tablespoonfuls  powdered 
sugar  to  a  thick  icing,  dip  one  side  of  each  finger  separately  into 
the  icing  and  fit  them  neatly  on  side  of  form.  Flavor  the  cream 
with  1  teaspoonful  vanilla  and  sweeten  with  2  tablespoonfuls  sifted 
powdered  sugar.  Fill  the  cream  into  the  form.  Cover  the  cream 
with  fine  slices  of  lady  fingers  ;  set  for  1  hour  on  ice.  When  ready 
to  serve  turn  the  charlotte  de  russe  into  a  dish  ;  remove  the  paper 
and  serve. 


CAKES,  TOKTEN,  Etc.  565 

Tanilla  Kipfeln. ‚Äî Six  ounces  butter,  3  ounces  fine-chopped 
almonds,  3  ounces  sugar.  Work  this  into  a  firm  paste,  cut  it  into 
small  pieces  the  size  of  a  walnut,  and  form  them  into  pyramids ;  bake 
in  slow  oven.  When  done  roll  in  vanilla  sugar,  and  set  on  paper 
to  cool.  (See  Vanilla  Sugar  in  my  book  Desserts  and  Salads, 
recipe  113.) 

Pound  Cake. ‚Äî Half  pound  flour,  Yg  pound  butter,  Yg  pound 
powdered  sugar,  6  eggs,  1  teaspoonful  lemon  extract.  Wash  the 
butter  in  several  cold  waters  and  dry  it  in  a  napkin.  Put  butter  in 
a  mixing  bowl  and  stir  it  with  a  silver  spoon  for  10  minutes,  add  to 
this  half  the  sugar  and  stir  20  minutes  more ;  next  add  the  yolks, 
one  at  a  time,  stirring  a  few  minutes  between  each  addition.  Beat 
the  whites  to  a  stiff  froth,  add  the  lemon  and  the  remaining  Ys  cup 
sugar,  beat  this  for  5  minutes;  then  add  slowly  by  spoonfuls  the 
above  mixture  while  beating  constantly  with  the  egg  beater.  Sift 
the  flour  3  times  and  stir  it  lightly  through  the  mixture,  bake 
in  a  well-buttered  and  paper-lined  form  1  hour  in  medium-hot  oven, 
do  not  touch  the  pan  while  the  cake  is  baking.  If  the  cake  should 
brown  too  much  on  top  put  a  piece  of  buttered  paper  over.  This 
will  make  a  medium-sized  cake. 

Economical  Pound  Cake. ‚Äî One  pound  sifted  flour  mixed 
with  1  teaspoonful  baking  powder,  1  pound  powdered  sugar,  Ys 
pound  butter,  6  eggs,  Ys  cup  milk,  the  juice  and  rind  of  1  lemon. 
Stir  butter  and  sugar  to  a  cream,  add  by  degrees  the  6  yolks,  then 
the  lemon ;  next  add  alternately  the  milk  and  sifted  flour,  and  lastly 
the  whites  beaten  to  a  stiff  froth ;  bake  1  hour  in  a  large  well-but- 
tered and  paper -lined  form  in  a  moderate  oven. 

Ringlets. ‚Äî Rub  the  bottom  of  long  shallow  tin  pans  with  butter 
and  dust  them  with  powdered  sugar.  Then  prepare  a  cake  mixture 
the  same  as  for  lady  fingers,  put  it  into  a  paper  funnel  and  drop  the 
mixture  in  the  form  of  rings  into  the  pan,  dust  over  some  sugar 
and  bake  in  a  cool  oven.  When  done  cut  them  even  with  a  round 
cake  cutter,  also  the  inside  so  that  the  rings  obtain  a  nice  shape ; 


566  CAKES,  TORTEN,  Etc. 

spread  the  under  side  with  marmalade  or  jelly ;  pour  over  this  a  wine 
glaze,  sprinkle  fine-chopped  nuts  over  and  let  them  dry  a  few  min- 
utes in  front  of  oven. 

Swiss  Ringlets. ‚Äî Mix  2  cups  sifted  flour  with  5  tablespoonfuls 
sugar,  %  cup  butter,  the  yolks  of  6  eggs,  and  the  grated  rind  of  1 
lemon  into  a  stiff  dough  ;  let  rest  on  ice  or  cool  place  for  1  hour. 
Then  roll  the  dough  out  on  a  floured  pastry  board  Vs  ot  an  inch  in 
thickness.  Cut  it  into  rounds  about  2  inches  in  diameter  with  a 
round  scalloped  cake  cutter,  then  cut  a  small  round  piece  from  the 
center  of  each  cake  ;  lay  them  into  buttered  tins,  brush  over  with 
beaten  egg,  and  bake  in  a  medium -hot  oven. 

Drop  Cocoaiiut  Cakes. ‚Äî One  half  cup  butter,  Y2  cup  sugar,  1 
cup  flour,  3  eggs,  1  grated  cocoanut  mixed  with  1  cup  powdered 
sugar,  1  teaspoonful  baking  powder  mixed  with  the  flour.  Stir 
butter  and  the  Y3  cup  sugar  to  a  cream,  add  the  yolks,  one  at  a  time, 
then  beat  the  whites  to  a  stiff  froth,  and  add  them  with  the  flour  to 
the  mixture ;  lastly,  stir  in  the  grated  cocoanut  mixed  with  sugar. 
Drop  with  a  spoon  into  buttered  pans,  not  too  close  together,  and 
bake  light  brown.  If  the  cocoanut  batter  should  be  too  stiff  to 
drop,  add  a  few  spoonfuls  milk. 

Cocoanut  Balls. ‚Äî One  pound  fresh  grated  cocoanut,  1  pound 
powdered  sugar,  the  whites  of  3  eggs ;  beat  the  whites  to  a  stiff 
froth.  Mix  cocoanut  and  sugar  together,  add  it  to  the  beaten  whites ; 
mix  the  whole  together  and  shape  with  your  hands  into  small  round 
balls  the  size  of  a  hickory  nut ;  lay  them  in  buttered  and  paper- 
lined  tins,  and  bake  in  a  moderate  oven.  If  the  whites  of  eggs 
should  not  be  sufficient  to  wet  cocoanut  and  sugar,  add  a  little 
more.     They  may  also  be  shaped  into  small  pyramids. 

Berlions. ‚Äî Three  cups  sifted  flour,  1  cup  butter,  1  cup  fine 
sugar,  the  grated  rind  of  1  lemon,  the  yolks  of  8  hard-boiled  eggs. 
Rub  the  yolks  fine  and  press  them  through  a  sieve ;  mix  all  the 
ingredients  into  a  stiff  paste.  Eoll  with  the  hands  into  thin  rolls 
about  Y2  inch  in  diameter,  cut  them  slantingly  into  lengths  of  3  to 


CAKES,  TORTEN,  Etc.  567 

4  inches  ;  form  into  rings,  dip  with  the  one  side  first  into  the  beaten 
white  of  egg,  then  into  sugar,  and  bake  in  a  slow  oven.  In  serving, 
a  little  jelly  may  be  put  in  center  of  each  one. 

Apple  Fruit  Cake. ‚Äî Two  cups  dried  apples,  IY2  cup  sirup,  1 
pint  milk,  1  cup  sugar,  Yg  cup  butter,  3  eggs,  1  pound  raisins,  1 
pound  currants,  2  teaspoonfuls  of  mixed  spice ‚Äî of  cinnamon,  of 
cloves,  and  of  allspice ‚Äî Yg  nutmeg,  3  teaspoonfuls  baking  powder,  1 
pound  flour.  Soak  apples  over  night.  Chop  fine,  put  apples  and 
siru23  over  the  fire,  cook  2  hours,  set  aside  to  cool.  Stir  butter  and 
sugar  to  a  cream,  add  by  degrees  the  eggs,  then  the  apples,  fruit, 
and  spice ;  sift  the  baking  powder  with  the  flour ;  add  flour  and 
milk  alternately,  mix  all  together,  pour  into  a  paper-lined  buttered 
form  and  bake  in  a  moderate  oven  till  done. 

Macaroons. ‚Äî Half  a  pound  of  almond  paste,  the  whites  of  3 
eggs,  Y2  pound  powdered  sugar,  the  grated  rind  of  Ys  lemon,  or  1 
teaspoonful  vanilla  sugar.  Add  first  1  white  to  the  almond  paste 
and  mix  it  with  the  hand  till  soft ;  then  add  alternately  the  sugar 
and  the  remaining  2  whites,  add  the  lemon,  and  fill  the  preparation 
into  a  paper  funnel  or  pastry  bag ;  press  small  portions  on  to  sheets 
of  paper  lYs  inch  apart,  moisten  each  one  with  a  little  cold 
water ;  sprinkle  over  some  granulated  sugar,  lay  the  paper  in  tin 
pans,  and  bake  in  a  moderatly  hot  oven  to  a  delicate  brown  color. 
When  done  and  cooled  off,  lay  the  paper  on  a  wet  board ;  as  soon  as 
the  moisture  penetrates  through  the  paper  the  macaroons  loosen 
themselves  ;  remove,  and  put  them  in  a  tin  box. 

Soft  Cookies. ‚Äî One  large  cup  butter,  IY2  cup  sugar,  2  eggs,  Yi 
cup  sour  cream,  Ys  teaspoonful  baking  soda  dissolved  in  a  little 
boiling  water,  then  added  to  the  sour  cream.  Stir  butter  and  sugar 
to  a  cream,  add  the  yolks,  next  a  few  spoonfuls  sifted  flour  and  the 
sour  cream  with  soda,  then  the  whites  beaten  to  a  stiff  froth  ;  add 
sufficient  flour  to  make  a  soft  paste,  roll  out  thin,  sprinkle  over 
some  granulated  sugar  and  a  little  grated  nutmeg ;  pass  over  this 


568  CAKES,  TORTEN,  Etc. 

the  rolling  pin,  cut  into  rounds  with  a  cake  cutter,  and  bake  in 
well-buttered  tins  to  a  delicate  brown. 

Cocoanut  Cookies. ‚Äî Three  quarters  of  a  cup  of  butter,  2  of 
sugar,  2  eggs,  1  cup  grated  cocoanut,  1  teaspoonful  baking  powder 
sifted  with  a  little  flour.  Stir  butter  and  sugar  to  a  cream,  add  the 
eggs,  the  grated  cocoanut,  and  powder ;  use  flour  enough  to  roll  out 
thin,  cut  into  rounds,  and  bake  in  buttered  tins  to  a  delicate  brown. 
Care  must  be  taken  not  to  get  them  too  brown. 

Zamara  Cake.‚Äî Stir  6  ounces  butter  with  10  ounces  powdered 
sugar  to  a  cream ;  beat  the  whites  of  6  eggs  to  a  stiff  froth ;  add 
them  alternately  with  12  ounces  prepared  flour  and  Yg  pint  of  cream 
to  the  butter  and  sugar,  flavor  with  1  teaspoonful  vanilla  sugar ; 
bake  in  2  well-buttered  and  floured  jelly  tins  in  medium-hot  oven. 
Filling :  Boil  1  cupful  sugar  with  Yg  cupful  water  till  it  turns  yel- 
low, then  add  1  tablespoonful  rum,  Y2  teaspoonful  vanilla  sugar, 
beat  the  whites  of  3  eggs  to  a  stiff  froth,  add  slowly  the  boiling 
sugar  sirup  while  beating  constantly,  put  this  preparation  between 
the  layers ;  sprinkle  over  Y2  cupful  fine-chopped  almonds,  cover  the 
top  of  cake  with  a  layer  of  pineapple  or  apricot  marmalade,  then 
pour  over  a  white  sugar  glaze ;  put  a  border  of  candied  apricots 
around  the  edge  of  cake. 

Cocoanut  Comforts. ‚Äî Mix  together  Y2  pound  powdered 
sugar,  Y2  pound  fresh  grated  cocoanut,  the  beaten  whites  of  3  eggs  ; 
drop  small  portions  separately  in  well-buttered  and  paper-lined  tins, 
and  bake  in  medium-hot  oven. 

Biscuit  Kippel. ‚Äî Stir  the  yolks  of  4  eggs  with  Y4  pound  pow- 
dered sugar  to  a  cream,  add  Y*  sifted  flour,  and  last  the  whites 
beaten  to  a  stiff  froth.  Put  small  bits  in  a  paper-lined  pan,  sprin- 
kle over  some  sugar  and  fine-chopped  almonds,  and  bake  in  a 
slow  oven. 

Tanilla  Waters. ‚Äî One  half  pound  sifted  flour,  7  ounces  butter, 
2  ounces  sugar,  1  teaspoonful  vanilla  extract,  the  yolks  of  3  eggs,  Y4 


CAKES,  TORTEN,  Etc.  569 

cup  cream,  %  teaspoonful  salt.  Mix  this  into  a  soft  dough,  wrap  it 
up  in  a  napkin,  and  lay  it  for  Yg  hour  in  a  cool  place,  then  roll  it 
out  on  a  floured  board  Yg  inch  in  thickness,  fold  it  up  so  that  3  layers 
lay  over  one  another,  roll  out  again  and  fold  up,  repeat  this  once 
more,  let  it  rest  for  Ys  hour,  roll  it  out  again  3  times.  Then  roll  it 
out  thin  and  cut  with  a  cake  cutter  into  rounds,  brush  over  with 
beaten  egg,  and  make  with  the  point  of  a  knife  small  rent  in  it, 
bake  in  a  hot  oven.  In  place  of  vanilla  any  other  kind  of  flavoring 
may  be  taken ;  also  fine-cut  citron  may  be  added  to  the  mixture. 

Aniseed  Wafers. ‚Äî Mix  Ys  pound  sifted  flour  with  Ys  tea- 
spoonful  baking  powder,  3  eggs,  Ys  pound  powdered  sugar,  2  tea- 
spoonfuls  aniseed.  Stir  the  sugar  and  yolks  to  a  cream,  add  the 
aniseed  and  the  beaten  whites,  last  the  sifted  flour.  Put  with  a 
teaspoon  small  cakes  on  a  buttered  pan,  and  bake  in  a  moderate 
oven. 

Talmouses. ‚Äî Place  a  saucepan  with  1  pint  milk  over  the  fire, 
add  lYs  tablespoonful  butter,  a  pinch  of  salt,  and  stir  when  it  boils 
Ys  pound  sifted  flour  into  it.  Continue  stirring  until  it  loosens  itself 
from  bottom  of  saucepan.  Transfer  the  paste  to  a  dish ;  when  nearly 
cold  mix  it  with  3  whole  eggs,  3  tablespoonfuls  sugar,  and  2  ounces 
grated  Parmesan  cheese  or  fresh  cream  cheese.  Koll  out  very  thin 
some  puff  paste,  cut  out  12  or  15  rounds  with  a  large  cutter  3  inches 
in  diameter,  put  a  tablespoonful  of  the  cheese  mixture  into  each  one, 
fold  it  over  from  3  sides  so  the  cheese  mixture  peeks  out  in  the  cen- 
ter, brush  over  with  beaten  egg,  and  bake  in  a  medium  oven. 
When  done  dust  them  with  sugar  and  serve  on  a  napkin.  This 
mixture  may  be  put  into  patty  pans  which  have  been  lined  with 
puff  paste. 

Almond  Cookies. ‚Äî Scald  Ys  pound  of  sweet  and  6  bitter 
shelled  almonds ;  remove  the  brown  skin  and  pound  the  almonds 
fine  with  the  white  of  an  egg.  Stir  1  tablespoonful  butter  with  Ys 
pound  sugar  to  cream ;  add  the  grated  rind  of  1  lemon,  a  pinch  of 
salt,  2  eggs,  Y2  pound  flour,  and  the  pounded  almonds.     Work  this 


570  CAKES,  TORTEN,  Etc. 

into  a  stiff  dough,  roll  it  out  thin,  cut  into  fancy  shapes  with  a 
cutter,  and  bake  on  buttered  tins  in  a  medium-hot  oven. 

Schneelballen. ‚Äî Sift  3  ounces  flour  into  a  bowl,  add  Y4  teaspoon- 
ful  salt,  a  little  grated  lemon  rind,  1  tablespoonf ul  lemon  juice,  the 
yolks  of  5  eggs,  and  sufficient  cold  water  to  make  a  firm  dough ; 
let  it  stand  a  half  hour,  then  roll  out  on  a  board  very  thin,  cut  into 
3-inch-square  pieces,  cut  into  each  square  3  slits  with  a  knife  Yg 
inch  from  the  sides  ;  bake  in  hot  fat,  like  crullers,  one  at  a  time, 
remove  with  a  skimmer,  and  dust  with  powdered  sugar.  In  place 
of  lemon,  wine,  rum,  or  any  other  kind  of  flavoring  may  be  used. 
Another  way  is  to  prepare  a  dough  of  4  ounces  flour,  1  ounce 
butter,  3  yolks,  V4  teaspoonful  salt,  and  sufficient  sour  cream  to 
make  a  dough ;  then  roll  it  out,  fold  it  together,  and  set  it  Vs  hour  in 
a  cool  place  ;  again  roll  and  fold  it,  let  rest  Ya  hour,  then  finish  the 
same  as  above. 

Hobelspane. ‚Äî Prepare  a  dough  the  same  as  for  schneeballen, 
roll  it  out  on  a  board  as  thin  as  possible,  cut  into  long  strips  Ys 
inch  wide,  roll  them  round  the  handle  of  a  wooden  spoon,  slip  into 
hot  fat,  and  cook  to  a  fine  golden  color ;  remove  with  a  skimmer, 
lay  them  on  a  dish,  dust  with  powdered  sugar,  and  serve  with  fruit, 
wine,  or  snow  sauce. 

NOhi'ling. ‚Äî Boil  Y2  pint  milk  with  1  ounce  butter,  add  Y2  tea- 
spoonful  salt  and  1  pint  of  flour,  stir  until  a  smooth  paste  is  formed, 
remove  from  fire,  let  rest  20  minutes,  then  roll  out  on  a  board  as 
thin  as  a  blade  of  a  knife,  cut  into  3-inch  square  pieces  ;  bake  to  a 
fine  golden  color,  and  serve  with  grape  sauce,  made  as  follows: 
Pick  1  pound  of  grapes  from  the  stems,  wash  and  place  them  in  a 
saucepan  over  the  fire ;  add  1  cupful  water,  the  thin  peel  of  Ys 
lemon,  2  cloves,  and  a  piece 'Of  cinnamon ;  cover  and  cook  10  min- 
utes ;  press  the  sauce  through  a  sieve  into  a  clean  saucepan,  return 
to  the  fire,  add  3  tablespoonf  uls  sugar  and  1  tablespoonf  ul  Zwieback 
crumbs,  boil  5  minutes ;  serve  either  hot  or  cold. 


CAKES,  TORTEN,  Etc.  5Y1 

Kolatschen. ‚Äî Eub  the  yolks  of  2  hard-boiled  eggs  fine,  add  2 
ounces  powdered  sugar,  4  ounces  flour  and  4  ounces  butter,  a  pinch 
of  salt,  1  raw  yolk,  1  tablespoonful  lemon  juice,  and  1  tablespoon- 
ful  rum  ;  mix  all  the  ingredients  well  together,  roll  out  on  a  board 
Ys  inch  in  thickness,  cut  it  into  rounds,  cover  them  with  meringue, 
sprinkle  over  some  fine-chopped  almond  dust  with  powdered  sugar, 
and  bake  in  a  slow  oven.  *‚ñÝ 

Krapfeln. ‚Äî Stir  the  yolks  of  6  hard-boiled  eggs  to  a  cream 
with  4  ounces  butter,  add  4  ounces  sugar,  the  grated  rind  of  Yg 
lemon,  and  5  ounces  flour ;  work  the  whole  into  a  dough,  roll  out 
Ys  iTich  in  thickness,  cut  into  rounds  with  a  cake  cutter,  and  bake  in 
medium-hot  oven.  These  cakes,  when  cold,  may  be  iced  with  sugar 
glaze  (see  recipe  927,  in  my  book  Desserts  and  Salads),  or  they  may 
be  cut  into  half  moons,  and  when  cold  put  2  together  with  marma- 
lade between  them  and  then  glazed. 

Cream  Cakes. ‚Äî Place  a  saucepan  with  Ys  pii^t  milk  and  2 
ounces  butter  over  the  fire ;  as  soon  as  it  boils  add  4  ounces  flour, 
stir  until  the  contents  have  formed  into  a  smooth  paste,  then  re- 
move, and  when  nearly  cold  add  the  yolks  of  5  eggs,  stir  until 
smooth,  then  add  the  beaten  whites  of  3  eggs.  Put  the  preparation 
in  a  pastry  bag,  and  press  out  upon  a  buttered  baking  pan  small 
portions  the  size  of  an  egg,  brush  over  with  beaten  egg,  and  bake 
in  a  medium-  hot  oven ;  when  done  cut  them  open  on  one  side 
and  fill  them  with  vanilla  cream  (139,  in  my  book  Desserts  and 
Salads). 

l^clairs.‚Äî Put  a  No.  3  tube  in  a  pastry  bag,  fill  in  the  same  prepa- 
ration as  for  cream  cakes,  press  it  into  a  buttered  tin  3  inches  long 
and  Ys  inch  wide,  brush  over  with  beaten  egg,  and  bake  in  a  me- 
dium-hot oven ;  when  done  cut  them  open  on  the  side,  fill  them 
with  vanilla  cream,  and  glaze  them  with  chocolate. 

Crullers. ‚Äî One  cup  sugar,  1  cup  milk,  4  ounces  butter,  2  whole 
^SS^^  1  yolk,  and  the  grated  rind  of  1  lemon.  Stir  butter  and 
sugar  to  a  cream,  add  lemon  and  the  eggs,  one  at  a  time,  stirring  a 
‚Ä¢67 


572  CAKES,  TORTEN,  Etc. 

few  minutes  between  each  addition  ;  then  add  alternately  the  milk 
and  sufficient  prepared  flour  to  make  a  stiff  dough ;  roll  it  out  on  a 
floured  board  Y4  inch  in  thickness,  cut  with  a  tin  cutter  into  rounds ; 
cut  a  small  piece  from  the  center  of  each,  which  will  give  them  the 
form  of  a  ring ;  drop  into  hot  fat,  and  fry  to  a  fine  golden  color. 
Eemove  the  crullers  with  a  skimmer,  lay  for  a  few  minutes  on 
blotting  or  brown  paper ;  remove  to  a  dish,  dust  with  powdered 
sugar,  and  serve  either  hot  or  cold.  In  place  of  prepared  flour, 
plain  flour  may  be  used  ;  with  2  teaspoonfuls  baking  powder. 

Frencli  Crullers. ‚Äî Boil  1  pint  milk  with  Yi  pound  butter,  stir 
in  while  the  milk  is  boiling,  1  pint  of  sifted  flour,  continue  stirring 
until  it  has  formed  into  a  smooth  paste  and  loosens  itself  from 
bottom  of  saucepan.  When  done,  transfer  the  paste  to  a  dish ; 
when  nearly  cold,  mix  with  the  yolks  of  8  eggs,  2  tablespoonfuls 
sugar,  and  lastly  the  whites  beaten  to  a  stiff  froth  ;  fill  this  into  a 
syringe  and  squirt  it  into  hot  lard.  Fry  light  brown.  When  done, 
pile  them  high  on  a  dish  and  dust  with  powdered  sugar. 

Berliner  Pfannkuclien.‚Äî One  pound  sifted  flour,  V4  pound 
butter,  the  yolks  of  8  eggs,  1  tablespoon  ful  sugar,  Y4  teaspoonful 
salt,  1  yeast  cake,  and  IY2  cup  warm  milk.  Put  flour,  salt,  and 
sugar  into  a  bowl,  make  a  hollow  in  the  center,  dissolve  the  yeast  in 
Y2  cup  milk,  pour  it  in  center  of  flour.  Melt  butter  in  the  remain- 
ing milk,  add  it  to  the  flour  with  the  yolks,  and  mix  all  into  soft 
dough.  Cover  with  a  napkin,  and  set  in  a  warm  place  to  raise  to 
double  its  height.  Then  put  half  of  the  dough  on  to  a  warm  floured 
board,  roll  it  out  about  Y4  inch  in  thickness  and  cut  with  a  cake 
cutter  into  rounds,  brush  over  with  beaten  egg,  put  in  the  center  of 
half  of  them  a  teaspoonful  fruit  jelly  or  marmalade.  Cover  them 
with  the  remaining  rounds,  press  the  edges  together,  and  cut  out 
once  more  with  a  smaller  cutter.  Then  turn  them  over  on  to  a 
board  with  a  floured  napkin  under  them.  Cover  with  a  warm  nap- 
kin and  form  the  remaining  dough  the  same  way  (this  must  be 
done  quick  so  that  the  dough  does  not  get  cold).     After  30  minutes 


CAKES,  TORTEN,  Etc.  573 

they  should  have  risen  to  double  their  height.  Then  fry  them  in 
hot  lard  the  same  as  crullers,  not  too  many  at  once.  Eemove  them 
with  a  skimmer  on  to  blotting  paper,  dust  with  powdered  sugar,  and 
serve  at  once  on  a  napkin. 

Banana  Fritters. ‚Äî Put  1  cup  of  sifted  prepared  flour  in  a 
bowl,  add  Yg  tablespoonful  butter,  rub  the  butter  and  flour  together ; 
add  Y2  cup  of  milk,  1  tablespoonful  sugar,  and  the  yolks  of  2  eggs. 
Beat  the  whites  to  a  stiff  froth,  add  the  batter  gradually  to  the 
whites.  Peel  6  bananas,  dip  each  one  separately  into  the  batter, 
and  fry  in  deep  hot  fat  to  a  golden  color  (if  the  batter  should  be  too 
thick,  add  more  milk) ;  remove,  and  lay  them  on  paper,  then  serve 
on  a  hot  dish  with  fruit  sauce,  described  below. 

Fruit  Sauce. ‚Äî Place  a  small  saucepan  with  V3  cupful  water 
and  Ya  cupful  sugar  over  the  fire,  boil  3  minutes ;  add  Y2  cupful  cur- 
rant jelly,  boil  a  few  minutes ;  then  strain  into  a  bowl,  add  1  gill  of 
sherry  wine  and  Ys  cupful  preserved  cherries. 

German  Kolatschen. ‚Äî Place  a  saucepan  with  Y2  pi^it  of  milk 
over  the  fire,  2  ounces  butter,  lYs  tablespoonful  sugar,  and  a  pinch 
of  salt ;  as  soon  as  the  milk  boils  sprinkle  in  4  ounces  sifted  flour 
while  stirring  constantly;  continue  the  stirring  until  formed  into  a 
smooth  paste  and  loosening  itself  from  bottom  of  saucepan ;  transfer 
it  to  a  dish,  and  mix,  when  cold,  with  1  whole  egg  and  the  yolks  of  4. 
Take  Y2  teaspoonful  and  drop  it  lightly  on  buttered  tins  2  inches 
apart,  brush  over  with  beaten  egg,  and  bake  in  a  moderately  hot  oven. 
When  done,  brush  over  the  top  of  each  with  a  mixture  made  of  1 
egg  mixed  with  1  tablespoonful  milk  and  1  of  sugar ;  sprinkle  over 
a  few  chopped  almonds,  then  return  to  oven  a  few  minutes.  Ee- 
move, and  when  cold  cut  an  opening  on  the  side  of  each  and  fill 
with  following  filling :  Whip  1  gill  of  sweet  cream  till  thick,  set  on 
ice  Ya  hour,  then  mix  with  Ya  cup  of  fresh  mashed  strawberries,  add 
1  tablespoonful  sifted  powdered  sugar.  They  can  be  served  as  a 
dessert  or  for  afternoon  teas  or  Jcaffeehlatsches. 


5Y4  CAKES,  TORTEN,  Etc. 

Molasses  Cake. ‚Äî Three  quarters  of  a  cup  of  lard  or  drippings, 
3  cups  prepared  flour,  1  cup  molasses,  1  cup  sour  milk  or  black 
coffee,  1  heaping  teaspoonful  ginger,  1  even  teaspoonful  cloves,  1 
teaspoonful  cinnamon,  1  teaspoonful  mace,  3  eggs,  1  cup  brown 
sugar.  Stir  sugar  and  lard  to  a  cream,  add  the  eggs  one  at  a  time, 
then  the  molasses  and  spice,  next  alternately  the  flour  and  milk. 
(The  flour  should  be  measured  before  sifted.)  Pour  the  mix- 
ture into  a  long  buttered  pan  and  bake  in  moderate  oven  till 
done.  If  plain  flour  is  used,  mix  it  with  2  teaspoonfuls  baking 
powder. 

Gingerbread. ‚Äî One  quart  flour,  V/s  cup  molasses,  2  teaspoon- 
fuls ginger,  Yg  cup  melted  butter,  1  cup  milk,  Yg  teaspoonful  salt,  1 
teaspoonful  soda  diluted  in  a  little  hot  water.  Mix  all  the  ingredi- 
ents together,  pour  into  a  well-buttered  and  floured  2-inch-deep 
baking  pan,  and  bake  in  medium-hot  oven  till  done. 

New  Year's  Cakes.‚Äî Four  ounces  sugar,  4  ounces  flour,  2 
ounces  butter,  2  eggs,  Ya  cup  milk,  1  teaspoonful  aniseed,  1  tea- 
spoonful fine-cut  lemon  peel,  2  pounded  cardamom  pods.  Put  the 
butter  in  a  bowl,  set  it  for  a  few  minutes  on  the  stove  to  soften  the 
butter,  then  add  the  sugar,  and  stir  the  two  to  a  cream ;  add  the 
eggs,  the  cardamom  seeds,  lemon,  aniseed,  and  milk ;  add  last  the 
flour.  Mix  all  well  together,  and  bake  in  following  manner :  Put  a 
wafer  iron  over  the  fire  ;  when  hot,  brush  it  over  with  melted  lard, 
put  a  teaspoonful  of  the  preparation  in  center  of  iron,  and  bake 
light  brown;  then  remove  from  the  iron  and  instantly  roll  up. 
When  cold,  put  away  in  a  tin  cake  box. 

Molasses  Coffee  Cake. ‚Äî One  cup  butter,  2  cups  brown  sugar,  1 
cup  molasses,  1  cup  cold  coffee,  5  cups  sifted  flour,  1  pound  seedless 
raisins,  1  pound  currants,  1  teaspoonful  cinnamon,  the  same  of  cloves, 
mace,  and  grated  nutmeg,  1  teaspoonful  baking  soda,  3  eggs.  Stir 
butter,  lard,  and  sugar  to  a  cream,  add  the  eggs  one  at  a  time,  stirring 
a  few  minutes  between  each  addition.  Put  soda  in  a  cup,  pour  a 
little  boiling  water  on  it,  stir  until  dissolved  ;  add  it  to  the  molasses ; 


CAKES,  TORTEN,  Etc.  575 

next  add  the  sifted  flour,  the  coffee,  and  molasses  alternately  to  the 
above  mixture ;  then  add  spice,  and  lastly  the  raisins.  Butter  a 
large  dripping  pan,  dust  with  bread  crumbs,  pour  in  the  mixture, 
spread  it  smooth,  and  bake  1  hour. 

Peppernuts. ‚Äî One  and  a  half  quart  of  molasses,  1  pound 
brown  sugar,  Yg  pound  butter,  Yg  pound  lard,  1  teaspoonful  ground 
cloves,  2  of  cinnamon,  2  of  ground  aniseed,  Y4  pound  chopped 
citron,  Y2  pound  chopped  almonds,  2  ounces  of  whole  coriander 
seeds,  1  grated  nutmeg,  4  teaspoonfuls  cream  of  tartar,  2  of  bak- 
ing soda  dissolved  in  a  little  boiling  water  ;  then  stir  into  the  mo- 
lasses 3  eggs  and  flour  enough  to  make  a  stiff  dough ;  mix  the 
cream  of  tartar  with  the  flour.  Stir  lard,  butter,  and  sugar  to  a 
cream,  add  the  eggs  one  at  a  time,  stirring  a  few  minutes  between 
each  addition  ;  next  add  the  spice,  citron,  and  nuts  ;  then  add  alter- 
nately the  molasses  and  sifted  flour.  Work  this  with  the  hands  into 
a  stiff  smooth  dough.  Shape  it  into  long  rolls  about  1  inch  in  di- 
ameter and  cut  it  into  slices  about  Y*  iiich  in  thickness  ;  set  these 
on  to  well-greased  tin  pans  and  bake  light  brown  in  a  quick  oven. 
When  all  are  done  and  cooled  off  put  them  in  a  tin  cake  box;  they 
will  keep  for  a  long  time.  They  can  also  be  rolled  out  very  thin  and 
cut  into  fancy  shapes,  then  brushed  over  with  beaten  egg  to  which  2 
tablespoonfuls  milk  has  been  added. 

Melrose  Pudding. ‚Äî Whip  1  pint  cream  till  stiff  and  place  for 
1  hour  on  ice  ;  then  mix  with  Ys  cupful  sifted  powdered  sugar  1 
teaspoonful  vanilla ;  add  of  candied  fruit  3  plums,  1  slice  of  pine- 
apple, 10  cherries,  3  marrons  glace  all  cut  into  fine  slices.  Put  3 
tablespoonfuls  of  the  cream  into  a  bowl  and  color  it  to  a  delicate 
pink  with  coloring  paste.  Have  a  3-pint  melon  mold  packed  in 
cracked  ice,  put  the  pink  cream  in  the  center  of  form ;  then  fill  in 
the  white  cream.  Close  the  form,  and  place  a  strip  of  buttered 
paper  around  the  edge  of  cover ;  then  pack  in  ice  and  rock  salt,  let 
remain  4  hours.  Shortly  before  serving,  remove  the  form,  rinse 
with  cold  water,  take  off  the  buttered  paper,  hold  the  form  for  a 


576  CAKES,  TORTEN,  Etc. 

secoud  in  hot  water,  wipe  it  dry,  turn  the  pudding  on  to  a  dish, 
and  serve. 

Nesselrode  Pudding. ‚Äî Boil  %  pound  large  chestnuts  in  water 
20  minutes,  drain  and  remove  the  shells  and  brown  skin,  return  the 
nuts  in  saucepan  to  the  fire,  cover  with  milk  and  cook  till  tender  ; 
remove  from  fire,  mash  fine,  and  rub  through  a  coarse  sieve.  Put 
the  chestnut  puree  in  a  saucepan,  add  the  yolks  of  6  eggs,  1 
pint  of  cream,  1  gill  of  pineapple  sirup,  6  ounces  sugar,  place  the 
saucepan  over  the  fire,  and  stir  till  nearly  boiling ;  then  instantly 
remove,  add  1  teaspoonful  vanilla  extract,  and  set  aside  to  cool. 
Place  a  small  saucepan  with  1  pint  of  water  over  the  fire,  add  lYg 
ounce  seedless  raisins  and  lYg  ounce  fine-cut  citron,  cook  5  minutes; 
then  drain,  and  lay  the  fruit  a  few  minutes  on  a  towel  to  dry.  Put 
the  fruit  into  a  bowl,  add  4  ounces  fine-cut  candied  cherries,  lYg  cup- 
ful fine-cut  preserved  pineapples,  and  1  gill  of  maraschino,  allow  to 
steep  for  2  hours.  Place  the  chestnut  puree  in  a  freezer  and  freeze 
till  it  begins  to  thicken,  then  add  the  fruit,  freeze  a  few  minutes ; 
next  add  Yg  pint  of  whipped  cream,  freeze  until  firm.  Fill  the 
cream  into  a  form  with  a  tube  in  the  center,  put  on  the  cover,  tie 
with  a  string,  and  paste  a  piece  of  buttered  paper  around  the  edge 
of  cover.  Put  a  layer  of  fine-chopped  ice  in  an  ice-cream  pail, 
sprinkle  over  Y2  pi^t  of  rock  salt ;  on  top  of  this  place  the  form,  fill 
the  space  between  form  and  pail  alternately  with  ice  and  rock  salt ; 
cover  the  form  completely  with  ice  and  salt ;  cover  the  top  with 
paper,  and  place  the  pail  in  a  cool  place  for  2  hours.  Shortly 
before  serving  take  out  the  form,  rinse  with  cold  water,  remove 
paper,  set  the  form  for  a  second  in  hot  water,  then  wipe  the  form 
dry.     Turn  it  on  to  a  dish  and  serve. 

Biscuit  Teutonia. ‚Äî Put  the  yolks  of  4  eggs  in  a  double  boiler, 
add  lYa  tablespoonful  sugar,  3  tablespoonfuls  maraschino,  and  1 
tablespoonful  Swiss  kirsch ;  or  add  2  tablespoonfuls  Madeira  or 
sherry  wine.  Place  it  over  the  fire  and  stir  for  5  minutes  or  until 
it  begins  to  thicken ;  then  remove,  place  it  in  ice  water,  and  when 


CAKES,  TORTEN,  Etc.  577 

cold  add  1  pint  whipped  cream,  2  ounces  powdered  sugar,  and  1  tea- 
spoonful  vanilla.  Cover  and  let  rest  10  minutes  ;  then  fill  the  prep- 
aration into  9  paper  cases,  and  sift  evenly  over  the  surface  2  ounces 
finely  powdered  macaroons.  Put  the  paper  boxes  into  a  square 
biscuit-glace  box,  and  cover  it  tightly.  Place  the  box  in  an  ice- 
cream tub,  cover  the  entire  form  with  cracked  ice  and  rock  salt,  and 
let  freeze  V-j^  hour. 

Biscuit  (xlace. ‚Äî Prepared  the  same  as  Biscuit  Teutonia,  omit- 
ting the  macaroons. 

Plain  Ice  Cream.‚Äî Sweeten  1  quart  of  sweet  cream  with  1' 
cupful  sugar  and  flavor  with  2  teaspoonfuls  vanilla  extract,  then 
freeze  according  to  direction  in  recipe  264  of  my  book  Desserts 
and  Salads. 

Boiled  Meringue. ‚Äî Place  a  saucepan  with  1  pound  granulated 
sugar  and  Yg  pint  cold  water  over  the  fire,  boil  the  sugar  to  the 
fifth  degree  (see  my  book  Desserts  and  Salads,  recipe  941).  Beat 
the  whites  of  5  eggs  to  a  stiff  broth,  add  slowly  while  constantly 
beating  the  boiling  hot  sugar,  then  remove  the  e^g  beater.  Place 
the  bowl  with  meringue  in  ice  water,  stir  for  a  few  minutes  with  a 
wooden  spoon,  add  Yg  teaspoonful  vanilla  extract,  cover  and  let 
stand  10  minutes. 

Sahnen  Baisses. ‚Äî Prepare  a  meringue  the  same  as  in  fore- 
going recipe  ;  lay  a  large  sheet  of  white  paper  on  a  baking  tin,  put 
the  meringue  with  a  tablespoon  on  the  paper  in  the  shape  of  an 
egg  IY2  inch  apart,  dust  with  powdered  sugar,  and  bake  in  a  slow 
oven  about  Y2  hour.  Eemove,  and  when  cold  lay  the  paper  on  a 
wet  board  ;  after  a  few  minutes  take  the  shells  carefully  from  the 
paper,  press  them  with  the  finger  to  give  a  perfect  shell  shape,  re- 
turn to  a  cool  oven,  leaving  the  door  ajar,  to  dry  thoroughly ;  re- 
move and  put  away  in  a  paper  box.  These  shells  may  be  filled  with 
marmalade,  jelly,  ice  cream,  or  whipped  cream,  and  served  as  a 
dessert. 


578  CAKES,  TORTEN,  Etc. 

Meringue. ‚Äî Sift  Y2  pound  powdered  sugar  on  a  plate,  put  the 
whites  of  3  eggs  into  a  bowl,  add  a  few  grains  of  salt,  and  beat 
until  the  whites  are  stiff ;  then  add  1  tablespoonf ul  of  the  sifted 
sugar,  beat  1  minute  longer ;  remove  the  beater,  add  gradually  the 
remaining  sugar  while  stirring  the  whites  lightly  with  a  spoon. 
Flavor  with  Yg  teaspoonful  vanilla  sugar  or  grated  lemon  rind. 

Lady  Fingers. ‚Äî Four  eggs,  the  weight  of  4  eggs  in  sugar,  the 
weight  of  2  in  flour.  Stir  sugar  and  yolks  with  Yg  teaspoonful 
lemon  juice  for  20  minutes,  beat  the  whites  to  a  stiff  froth,  add 
slowly  the  yolks  and  sugar  to  the  whites,  then  the  sifted  flour.  Put 
the  preparation  into  a  paper  funnel  with  a  tube  at  the  end ;  lay 
2  large  sheets  of  white  paper  on  a  table,  mark  it  off  with  a  pencil 
the  size  of  the  lady  fingers  ;  then  till  the  preparation  in  a  paper 
funnel,  press  the  batter  on  to  the  paper  in  straight  rows  of  7*  inch 
wide  and  4  inches  long  about  1  inch  apart ;  place  in  a  pan,  and  bake 
in  a  slow  oven.  Dust  them  with  powdered  sugar  and  bake  in  a  slow 
oven  to  a  fine  golden  color,  remove,  and  when  cold  lay  the  paper  on 
a  wet  table  to  loosen  the  fingers.     Put  2  and  2  together  and  serve. 

Jessina  Sultana. ‚Äî Sift  Yg  pound  of  flour  into  a  bowl,  make  a 
hollow  in  center,  put  in  the  yolks  of  2  eggs,  6  ounces  butter,  the 
fine-chopped  peel  of  Y2  a  lemon,  and  2  tablespoonfuls  cream ;  mix 
all  into  a  firm  paste.  Mix  4  ounces  almond  paste  with  the  whites 
of  2  eggs,  add  it  to  the  above  paste,  work  it  for  3  minutes  on  a 
board,  then  place  it  for  1  hour  on  ice;  then  roll  out  the  paste  Y2 
an  inch  in  thickness,  cut  it  out  into  a  round  piece,  lay  it  on  but- 
tered paper,  place  on  a  baking  sheet,  brush  over  with  beaten  eggs, 
and  bake  to  a  fine  golden  color  in  a  medium  hot  oven;  remove,  and 
when  cold  put  1  quart  fresh  strawberries  in  the  center,  sprinkle 
over  3  tablespoonfuls  powdered  sugar,  cover  with  1  pint  whipped 
cream,  sweeten  with  sugar,  and  flavor  with  vanilla;  fill  9  meringue 
shells  with  pink  whipped  cream,  lay  them  around  the  edge  in  the 
form  of  a  border,  set  3  shells  on  top  the  cream,  and  serve. 


PUNCHES. 

Roman  Ice  Punch. ‚Äî One  quart  sugar  sirup,  the  juice  of  5 
lemons  and  4  oranges,  the  thin  peel  of  3  lemons  and  4  oranges,  an 
Italian  meringue  of  4  eggs,  Yg  pint  rum,  Yg  pint  champagne.  For 
the  sirup  dissolve  1  pound  sugar  in  1  pint  water,  add  the  juice  of 
4  lemons  and  4  oranges,  cover  and  let  stand  for  5  minutes ;  then 
remove  the  peel,  strain  the  sirup  through  a  sieve,  weigh  it  with  the 
sugar  scale  to  20  degrees  ;  put  it  into  the  freezer  and  work  it  for  15 
minutes.  Next  prepare  the  meringue.  Put  ^4  pound  sugar  with  1 
teaspoonful  vanilla  extract  and  Y2  pint  water  over  the  fire  and  boil 
the  sugar  to  the  5th  degree  (for  sugar  boiling  see  Desserts  and 
Salads,  recipe  941).  In  the  meantime  whip  the  whites  of  4  eggs  to 
a  stiff  froth,  let  the  sugar  sirup  cool  off  a  little,  then  pour  it  slowly 
to  the  eggs  while  beating  constantly.  Half  an  hour .  before  serving 
put  the  meringue  into  the  freezer,  work  it  for  10  minutes ;  cover 
and  let  it  stand  10  minutes.  Before  serving  take  out  the  paddle, 
put  in  the  rum  and  champagne,  mix  it  well  together  and  serve  it  in 
small  glasses.  In  place  of  lemon  and  oranges,  pineapple  sirup  may 
be  taken. 

Imperial  Ice  Punch. ‚Äî Mix  1  quart  pineapple  sirup,  2  tea- 
spoonfuls  vanilla  extract,  the  juice  of  4  oranges  and  2  lemons,  the 
thin  peel  of  1  orange  and  1  lemon,  a  pinch  of  ground  mace,  cover 
and  let  stand  5  minutes ;  then  remove  the  peel,  put  the  sirup  into 
the  freezer,  work  it  for  15  or  20  minutes ;  then  add  Italian  me- 
ringue the  same  as  in  foregoing  recipe.  Shortly  before  serving  add 
2  gills  of  maraschino,  the  same  of  kirsch,  Curapoa,  and  champagne. 
Serve  in  glasses. 

579 


580  PUNCHES. 

Royal  Pimcli,  No.  1. ‚Äî Pare  and  grate  a  large  ripe  pineapple  ; 
mix  the  pulp  with  2  pounds  sugar  and  Yg  cup  water.  When  the 
sugar  is  melted  add  1  bottle  fine  claret,  1  bottle  Johannisberger,  1 
bottle  champagne,  Yg  bottle  arrack,  Y2  bottle  maraschino,  the  juice 
of  4  lemons  and  4  oranges,  and  the  peel  of  1  orange.  Mix  this  well 
together  and  let  it  stand  5  minutes,  then  strain  it  through  a  sieve ; 
fill  the  punch  into  bottles,  cork  them  tightly,  and  lay  them  a  short 
time  on  ice  before  serving. 

Royal  Punch,  No.  2. ‚Äî Pare  and  grate  1  large  ripe  pineapple, 
add  the  juice  of  20  sweet  oranges,  2  pounds  sugar  dissolved  in  Y2 
pint  of  cold  water,  1  bottle  arrack,  1  of  Madeira,  2  of  Moselle,  1  of 
old  Khine  wine,  1  of  Capavine,  1  of  white  Bordeaux,  Y2  bottle  red 
Burgundy  wine.  Mix  all  well  together,  strain  and  bottle  it,  cork 
tightly,  and  put  in  cellar  until  wanted.  Lay  the  punch  on  ice  for 
an  hour  before  serving.  None  but  the  best  wines  should  be  used 
for  this  punch. 

Regent  Punch. ‚Äî Put  into  a  large  porcelain  bowl  1  pound 
sugar,  Y2  piiit  strong  tea,  the  juice  of  2  lemons  and  4  oranges, 
Y2  pint  brandy,  Y2  V^^^  Jamaica  rum,  1  bottle  champagne.  Stir 
until  the  sugar  is  dissolved,  strain  into  a  punch  bowl  and  put  a 
large  piece  of  ice  in  center ;  or  bottle  it  and  before  serving  lay  the 
bottles  for  a  few  hours  on  ice. 

Hot  Punch. ‚Äî Dissolve  1  pound  sugar  in  IY3  quart  of  cold 
water  and  boil  5  minutes ;  add  the  juice  of  1  lemon  and  4  oranges 
and  a  little  thin  peel  of  both,  let  boil  up ;  remove  from  fire,  take 
out  the  peel,  add  Y2  pi^t  hot  strong  tea  and  Y2  pi^^^  good  rum; 
strain  through  a  fine  sieve  into  a  punch  bowl  and  serve  either  hot 
or  cold. 

Rum  Punch. ‚Äî Put  1  pound  sugar  and  IY2  quart  cold  water 
into  a  bowl,  set  this  in  a  vessel  of  hot  water,  cover  tightly  and  let 
it  stand  in  a  warm  place  for  1  hour.  Shortly  before  serving  boil  the 
sirup  until  clear ;  add  the  strained  juice  of  1  lemon  and  4  oranges ; 
let  boil  up  ;  remove  it  from  the  fire,  add  a  little  lemon  peel,  a  piece 


PUNCHES.  581 

of  vanilla  bean,  Yg  pint  strong  tea,  and  Y2  piii^  good  rum ;  strain  into 
a  punch  bowl  and  serve. 

Claret  Punch,  Hot. ‚Äî Boil  1  pound  sugar  witb  IY2  pint  water 
to  a  sirup ;  add  the  juice  of  2  lemons  with  1  bottle  claret ;  add  a 
piece  of  cinnamon  and  4  cloves.  Let  it  get  scalding  hot,  strain  and 
serve. 

Claret  Punch,  Cold. ‚Äî Dissolve  1  pound  sugar  in  lYs  pint 
cold  water,  add  the  juice  of  2  lemons  and  the  rind  of  1 ;  let  it  stand 
5  minutes ;  remove  the  rind,  add  1  bottle  claret,  and  strain  into  a 
punch  bowl.  Cut  1  orange  into  slices,  remove  the  pits,  put  the 
slices  into  the  punch,  and  also  some  fine-cut  pineapple  pieces.  Put 
a  large  piece  of  ice  in  the  center  and  serve. 

Lemon  Punch. ‚Äî Boil  1  pound  sugar  with  1  pint  of  water; 
add  the  peel  of  1  lemon  and  the  juice  of  3 ;  boil  it  to  a  sirup. 
When  cold  add  2  bottles  white  wine,  Yg  of  a  quart  of  arrack,  and  1 
pint  of  tea,  strain  through  a  napkin.  Heat  it  to  a  boiling  point 
and  serve. 

Strawberry  Punch. ‚Äî Wash  and  drain  2  quarts  ripe  strawber- 
ries, put  into  a  porcelain  bowl,  sprinkle  over  1  pound  sugar ;  add  3 
bottles  Moselle  wine  and  2  bottles  of  Bordeaux.  Cover  and  place 
the  punch  for  several  hours  on  ice.  Shortly  before  serving  stir  the 
punch  for  a  few  minutes,  pour  into  a  punch  bowl,  and  serve.  In 
place  of  Bordeaux,  2  bottles  of  Ehine  wine  may  be  taken,  or  add  1 
bottle  of  champagne. 

Orange  Cardinal. ‚Äî Put  1  pound  loaf  sugar  into  a  large  porce- 
lain bowl,  pour  over  1  bottle  Ehine  wine.  When  the  sugar  is 
melted,  put  in  the  thin  peel  of  2  oranges,  let  lay  5  minutes,  then  re- 
move the  peel ;  add  the  juice  of  12  oranges,  1  bottle  Rhine  wine, 
and  1  bottle  champagne.  Strain  the  cardinal  through  a  fine  sieve, 
cork  bottles  tightly,  and  set  in  a  cool  place. 

Pineapple  Cardinal. ‚Äî Pare  and  grate  a  large  ripe  pineapple 
into  a  large  porcelain  bowl,  add  1  pound  sugar,  2  bottles  Rhine 


582  PUNCHES. 

wine,  and  1  of  St.  Peray  wine.  Let  stand  until  sugar  is  melted, 
then  bottle,  cork,  and  set  in  cool  place.  Put  the  bottles  on  ice 
before  serving. 

Cold  Cream  Puncli. ‚Äî Place  a  porcelain  kettle  over  the  fire 
with  4  pounds  sugar,  4  quarts  boiling  water,  4  quarts  arrack,  the 
juice  of  8  lemons,  and  a  fine-cut  small  vanilla  bean ;  let  come  to  a 
boil,  then  add  while  beating  constantly  3  quarts  milk  or  cream. 
Eemove  from  the  fire,  cover  the  kettle  with  a  cloth,  and  let  it  stand 
for  2  hours ;  then  filter  and  fill  in  bottles,  cork  tightly,  and  set  away 
for  further  use. 

Claret  Punch. ‚Äî Put  into  a  large  tumbler  2  teaspoonfuls  pow- 
dered sugar,  1  slice  of  lemon,  2  of  orange,  and  2  gills  claret  wine ; 
fill  the  tumbler  with  fine-cracked  ice,  add  some  strawberries  (if  in 
season),  and  sip  through  a  straw. 

Sherry  Punch. ‚Äî Put  into  a  large  tumbler  some  fine  cracked 
ice ;  mix  a  wineglassful  sherry  wine  with  1  heaping  teaspoonf ul 
powdered  sugar,  add  3  slices  of  lemon  and  2  of  orange ;  carefully 
remove  the  pits.  Pill  into  the  tumbler,  and  if  berries  are  in  season, 
add  a  few  strawberries  or  raspberries.     Sip  through  a  straw. 

Port-wine  Punch. ‚Äî Prepare  the  same  as  sherry  punch. 

Tanilla  Punch. ‚Äî Add  to  1  gill  of  brandy  1  tablespoonful 
powdered  sugar,  Y4  teaspoonful  vanilla  extract,  1  teaspoonful  lemon 
juice.  Fill  the  tumbler  with  fine-cracked  ice,  and  sip  through  a 
straw. 

Champagne  Punch. ‚Äî Put  1  bottle  of  champagne  into  a  punch 
bowl,  add  3Y2  tablespoonfuls  powdered  sugar,  the  juice  of  1  lemon, 
1  orange  cut  into  slices  and  freed  from  the  pits,  3  slices  of  pineap- 
ple, and  2  tablespoonfuls  raspberry  sirup.  Serve  in  champagne 
glasses  with  fine-cracked  ice. 

Brandy  Punch  is  made  the  same  as  gin  punch  ;  take  brandy  in 
place  of  gin,  and  add  a  few  strawberries  or  raspberries  if  in  season. 
Sip  it  through  a  straw. 


PUNCHES.  583 

Eldorado  Punch. ‚Äî Two  tablespoonfuls  brandy,  1  of  Jamaica 
rum,  1  of  Bourbon  whisky,  2  teaspoonfuls  powdered  sugar,  1  slice 
of  lemon.  Fill  the  tumbler  full  of  cracked  ice,  add  a  few  pieces  of 
orange  or  strawberries  if  in  season.     Sip  through  a  straw. 

Gin  Punch,  Cold. ‚Äî Put  %  gill  of  gin  and  the  same  quantity 
of  water  in  a  large  tumbler,  add  1  tablespoonful  raspberries  and  2 
tablespoonfuls  gum  sirup,  1  slice  of  orange,  1  of  pineapple,  and  1  of 
lemon.  Fill  the  tumbler  with  fine-cracked  ice,  and  sip  through  a 
straw. 

Milk  Punch. ‚Äî Put  into  a  large  tumbler  2  teaspoonfuls  pow- 
dered sugar,  1  tablespoonful  raspberry  sirup,  1  of  Cura9oa,  2  table- 
spoonfuls Jamaica  rum,  1  teaspoonful  brandy,  1  tablespoonful  fine- 
cracked  ice.  Fill  the  tumbler  with  milk,  grate  over  the  top  a 
little  nutmeg,  and  serve. 

Milk  Punch_,  Plain. ‚Äî Put  1  wineglassful  brandy  in  a  tumbler, 
add  1  tablespoonful  powdered  sugar,  also  a  little  cracked  ice  ;  fill  the 
tumbler  with  milk,  grate  over  the  top  a  little  nutmeg,  and  serve. 

Milk  Punch,  Hot. ‚Äî Dissolve  1  tablespoonful  sugar  in  2  of  hot 
water,  add  2  tablespoonfuls  Cognac  and  1  of  St.  Croix  rum.  Fill  the 
glass  while  boiling,  and  grate  a  little  nutmeg  over  the  top. 

Milk  Punch  with  Egg,  No.  1. ‚Äî Stir  in  a  tumbler  the  yolk  of 
1  egg  with  1  tablespoonful  powdered  sugar  to  a  cream,  add  2  table- 
spoonfuls Cognac,  a  little  cracked  ice,  and  fill  the  tumbler  full  of 
milk  ;  grate  a  little  nutmeg  over  the  top,  and  serve. 

Milk  Punch  with  Egg,  No.  2.‚Äî Stir  the  yolk  of  1  egg  with  1 
tablespoonful  powdered  sugar  to  a  cream,  add  a  small  glass  of  brandy 
and  a  little  St.  Croix  rum  ;  then  beat  the  white  to  a  stiff  froth  in  a 
large  tumbler  ;  add  the  above  mixture  gradually  while  beating  con- 
stantly ;  then  add  sufficient  milk  to  fill  the  glass  while  stirring  all 
the  time  ;  add  a  little  ice,  and,  if  liked,  season  with  grated  nutmeg. 
(Milk  punches  with  egg  are  mostly  used  for  the  sick.) 


584  PUNCHES. 

Egguog. ‚Äî Stir  2  teaspoonfuls  sugar  with  the  yolk  of  1  egg 
to  a  cream,  add  1  tablespoonful  of  the  best  Jamaica  rum,  beat  the 
white  to  a  froth,  add  it  to  the  above  mixture,  and  serve.  Eggnog 
prepared  in  this  way  is  excellent.  In  place  of  rum,  sherry  wine  or 
Cognac  can  be  taken. 

Lemonade^  Extra  Fine. ‚Äî To  make  2  quarts  lemonade  put  2 
cups  sugar  into  a  bowl,  and  grate  the  rind  of  3  large  lemons  over  it. 
Be  careful  only  to  grate  off  the  yellow  part.  Then  press  out  the 
lemons,  strain  the  juice  and  pour  it  over  the  sugar,  add  1  cup  cold 
water,  stir  for  a  few  minutes.  Cover  and  let  stand  for  15  minutes, 
then  stir  until  the  sugar  is  dissolved  ;  strain  the  sirup  through  a 
sieve,  put  it  in  a  2-quart  pitcher,  fill  with  ice  water,  and  serve. 

Lemonade,  Hot. ‚Äî Dissolve  1  cup  sugar  in  1  cup  water,  add  the 
peel  of  1  lemon  and  the  strained  juice  of  2  ;  boil  2  minutes.  Then 
strain,  divide  this  sirup  into  4  tumblers,  and  fill  each  with  boiling 
water,  then  serve.  To  this  lemonade  any  kind  of  liquor  may  be 
added,  either  brandy,  rum,  white  or  red  wine,  if  liked. 

Whisky  Puiich,  Hot. ‚Äî Dissolve  1  tablespoonful  sugar  in  2 
gills  of  boiling  water,  add  1  gill  of  whisky  and  a  slice  of  lemon ; 
serve  hot. 

Rum  Punch,  Hot. ‚Äî Prepare  the  same  as  whisky  punch. 
Take  Jamaica  rum  in  place  of  whisky. 

Fruit  Punch. ‚Äî Put  the  juice  of  2  large  lemons  and  6  oranges 
in  a  punch  bowl,  add  1  pint  of  well  washed  strawberries  or  Yg  pint 
preserved  strawberries,  1  peeled  pineapple  cut  into  small  dice- 
shaped  pieces,  add  2  quarts  cold  water,  Y^  cup  of  sugar,  and  a  large 
piece  of  ice,  or  sweeten  to  taste. 

Orange  Punch, ‚Äî Put  2  pounds  Clement's  orange  sugar  into  a 
punch  bowl,  add  lYg  gallon  cold  water,  1  bottle  white  wine,  Yg  pint 
preserved  pineapple,  Ys  pint  preserved  pitted  cherries,  1  pint  of  fine- 
cut  fresh  pineapple,  a  large  piece  of  ice ;  mix  and  serve  in  small 
glasses. 


PUNCHES.  585 

May  Bowl. ‚Äî Procure  some  fresh  Waldmeister  {Asperula  odo- 
rata)  in  the  mouth  of  May,  tie  it  into  small  bundles,  and  hang  it  for 
2  hours  outdoors  in  the  shade.  Put  IY2  ounce  of  Waldmeister  into  a 
covered  jar;  add  2  pounds  sugar,  2  quarts  Khine  wine  or  white 
wine,  cover,  and  set  for  1  hour  on  ice ;  then  strain  and  serve,  or  put 
it  into  bottles,  cork  tightly,  and  put  in  a  cool  place.  May  bowl 
may  be  served  with  cracked  ice,  or  the  bottles  may  be  laid  on  ice  2 
hours  before  serving.  Another  way  is  to  put  the  May  bowl  in  a 
punch  bowl  and  add  1  fine  sliced  orange  without  the  seeds,  or  add 
1  pint  fresh  strawberries;  also  fine-cut  fresh  pineapple  may  be 
added. 


FRUIT  SHRUBS. 

Extensively  used  for  summer  beverages. 

Lemon  Shrub. ‚Äî Pare  the  rind  as  thin  as  possible  from  2  dozen 
fresh  lemons ;  press  out  the  juice.  Strain  the  juice,  and  add  to  each 
pint  of  juice  1  pound  of  sugar  and  Yg  gill  of  brandy,  cut  the  lemon 
peel  into  small  pieces  and  add  them  to  the  juice,  cover  and  let  it 
stand  24  hours ;  then  strain  and  bottle.  A  few  tablespoonfuls  of 
this  in  a  glass  of  ice  water  makes  a  delicious  drink. 

Currant  Shrub. ‚Äî Put  some  ripe  currants  in  a  saucepan,  set 
in  a  vessel  of  boiling  water,  and  let  it  boil  until  the  juice  flows 
freely ;  then  remove  it,  and  when  cold  strain  through  a  coarse  bag, 
add  to  each  pint  of  juice  1  pound  sugar,  let  it  boil  2  minutes,  and 
remove  the  scum  ;  add  to  every  quart  of  juice  1  gill  of  French 
brandy,  run  it  through  a  Canton-flannel  filter,  and  bottle. 

Cherry  Shrub. ‚Äî Put  some  ripe  cherries  in  a  kettle,  add  suffi- 
cient water  to  nearly  cover,  and  boil  till  tender ;  strain  through  a 
coarse  bag,  add  to  every  pint  of  juice  Y*  pound  sugar,  boil  10  min- 
utes ;  remove  from  fire,  add  to  every  quart  of  liquid  1  gill  of  brandy, 
filter  through  a  Canton-flannel  filter,  and  bottle. 

Raspberry  Shrub. ‚Äî Mash  3  pints  ripe  raspberries  in  a  stone 
jar,  pour  over  1  pint  white  vinegar,  let  it  stand  overnight.  Next 
day  strain,  add  to  the  liquid  4  pounds  sugar,  let  boil  up,  and  remove 
all  the  scum  ;  add  to  each  2  pints  of  liquid,  1  gill  of  brandy,  and 
bottle.     In  using,  put  2  or  3  tablespoonfuls  in  a  glass  of  ice  water. 

Lemon  Liqueur,  No.  1. ‚Äî Put  the  peel  of  5  lemons  in  2  quarts 
of  French  brandy   in  a  demijohn,  cork   tightly,  and  let  stand  2 

586 


FRUIT  SHRUBS.  587 

weeks  in  a  warm  place.  Boil  IY4  pound  sugar  with  2  quarts  water 
to  a  sirup,  add  to  this  the  brandy  and  lemon  peel,  put  it  in  a  porce- 
lain kettle  on  the  back  of  stove.  Let  get  hot,  but  do  not  allow  to 
boil ;  strain  and  keep  in  well-corked  bottles  in  a  cool  place. 

Lemon  Liqueur,  No.  2. ‚Äî Put  4  bottles  of  Cognac  with  peel 
and  juice  of  16  lemons  in  a  large  demijohn,  add  V-j^  pound  sugar 
and  2  quarts  boiling  water.  Shake  all  well  and  let  stand  for  2 
weeks,  shaking  each  day.  At  the  end  of  that  time,  filter  and  put 
with  the  liquor  in  well-corked  bottle. 

Albsinthe  Liqueur. ‚Äî Take  18  ounces  of  fennel  seed,  2V2  ounces 
aniseseed,  6Y2  ounces  licorice  root,  4  gallons  alcohol  of  95  degrees, 
3  gallons  water,  2  ounces  peppermint,  6  ounces  wormwood.  Let  all 
stand  10  days  to  infuse.  Press  it  in  a  fruit  press  and  filter  through 
prepared  filtering  paper. 

Raspberry  Liqueur. ‚Äî Put  2  quarts  raspberries  in  a  stone  jar, 
pour  over  2  bottles  Cognac,  cover  and  let  stand  for  1  week  in  a  warm 
place.  Then  strain,  add  1  quart  of  simple  sirup,  filter,  and  set 
away  in  well- corked  bottles. 

Yanilla  Liqueur. ‚Äî Dissolve  2  pounds  sugar  in  2  quarts  cold 
water,  add  2  vanilla  beans  split  in  two,  and  boil  slowly  for  7s  hour ; 
remove  from  fire,  and  when  cold  add  1  quart  French  brandy  and  a 
few  drops  prepared  cochineal,  filter  and  keep  in  well-corked  bottles. 
Or  mix  1  quart  French  brandy  with  2  quarts  vanilla  sirup. 


CHAFING  DISHES. 

Silon  Curry. ‚Äî Put  1  tablespoonful  fine-chopped  onion  with  1 
tablespoonful  butter  in  a  chafing  dish,  cook  five  minutes,  add  1  tea- 
spoonful  curry  powder  and  1  tablespoonful  flour,  stir  and  cook  3 
minutes ;  add  lYg  cupful  boiling  water  and  1  teaspoonful  beef  ex- 
tract, 1  teaspoonful  salt,  cook  6  minutes ;  add  1  pint  of  fine-cut  cold 
cooked  chicken,  turkey,  veal,  or  fish  meat,  1  cupful  fresh  grated 
cocoanut,  Yg  cupful  of  cream,  cook  ten  minutes,  then  serve. 

Oysters  a  la  Cress. ‚Äî Place  20  large  oysters  without  their 
liquor  in  a  chafing  dish,  add  1  tablespoonful  Rhine  wine  or  1  table- 
spoonful lemon  juice,  1  even  teaspoonful  salt,  ^j^  teaspoonful  white 
pepper,  and  1  ounce  butter,  cook  till  the  oysters  begin  to  ruffle. 
Pour  the  oysters  into  a  dish.  Put  Yg  tablespoonful  butter  into  the 
chafing  dish,  add  Ys  tablespoonful  flour,  stir  and  cook  2  minutes ; 
add  Y4  cupful  of  the  oyster  liquor,  a  little  beef  extract,  Y4  hay  leaf,  8 
whole  peppers,  season  with  Y4  teaspoonful  salt,  cook  5  minutes ;  re- 
move bay  leaf  and  peppers,  put  in  the  oysters  without  the  broth, 
mix  the  yolk  of  2  eggs  with  Y2  giU  of  cream,  stir  for  a  few  minutes, 
add  Y2  tablespoonful  lemon  juice,  and  serve. 

Oysters  Sauted. ‚Äî Place  12  large  oysters  without  their  liquor 
in  a  chafing  dish,  add  Yg  tablespoonful  butter,  Y2  teaspoonful  salt, 
Y4  teaspoonful  pepper,  cover  and  cook  till  the  oysters  stiffen,  then 
serve ;  Y2  gill  of  cream  may  be  added. 

Clams  a  la  Gude. ‚Äî Remove  the  bodies  from  20  soft-shelled 
clams,  throw  the  rest  away,  place  the  bodies  in  a  chafing  dish,  add  1 
tablespoonful  butter,  Y4  teaspoonful  pepper,  cook  5  minutes ;  mix 

588 


CHAFING  DISHES.  689 

the  yolk  of  2  eggs  with  Yg  cupful  cream,  add  to  it  the  clams,  let  it 
remain  a  few  minutes,  then  serve. 

Clams  a  la  Maryland. ‚Äî Remove  the  bodies  from  20  soft  clams, 
place  the  bodies  with  1  tablespoonful  butter  in  a  saucepan,  add  1 
tablespoonful  fine-cut  truffles,  2  tablespoonfuls  of  sherry  wine,  V4 
teaspoonful  of  pepper,  cook  8  minutes,  being  careful  not  to  stir 
them ;  mix  Yg  cupful  cream  with  the  yolks  of  2  eggs,  add  it  to  the 
clams,  let  it  remain  a  few  minutes,  to  heat  but  not  boil,  then  serve. 

Tripe  a  la  MacFallen. ‚Äî Wash  and  cut  1  pound  of  tripe  into 
3 -inch  pieces,  place  them  in  the  lower  pan  of  a  chafing  dish,  cover 
with  water,  add  1  bay  leaf,  12  whole  peppers,  1  sliced  onion,  Y2  giU 
of  vinegar,  and  1  teaspoonful  salt ;  cook  15  minutes  ;  put  in  the 
upper  saucepan  1  tablespoonful  butter,  add  1  tablespoonful  flour ; 
stir  and  cook  till  the  butter  has  absorbed  all  the  flour,  then  add  IY2 
cupful  of  milk  or  cream,  1  even  teaspoonful  salt,  Ys  teaspoonful 
nutmeg,  if  handy  Yg  gi^l  of  mushroom  liquor,  Ys  bay  leaf,  8  whole 
peppers ;  boil  5  minutes ;  mix  the  yolks  of  2  eggs  with  Ys  giU  of 
cream,  add  it  to  the  sauce,  add  1  tablespoonful  lemon  juice.  Put 
the  tripe  into  a  dish  and  strain  the  sauce  over  it.  Tripe  may  be 
prepared  in  the  same  manner  with  oyster  sauce,  Spanish  sauce,  or 
horseradish  sauce. 

Spring  Chicken  in  a  Chafing  Dish. ‚Äî Cut  1  well-cleaned 
spring  chicken  into  4  pieces,  season  with  1  teaspoonfiil  salt  and  Y* 
teaspoonful  pepper ;  melt  1  tablespoonful  butter  in  a  chafing  dish, 
add  Ys  tablespoonful  fine-chopped  onion ;  put  in  the  chicken ;  cover 
and  cook  till  done  ;  mix  the  yolk  of  1  egg  with  Ys  giU  of  cream,  add 
it  to  the  chicken ;  add  last  Ys  tablespoonful  lemon  juice,  and  serve. 

Quails  in  a  Chafing  Dish. ‚Äî Melt  1  tablespoonful  butter  in  a 
chafing  dish ;  season  2  well-cleaned  quails  with  1  teaspoonful  salt, 
put  them  into  the  butter ;  cover  and  cook  till  done ;  then  remove 
them ;  add  1  teaspoonful  flour  to  the  gravy,  stir  and  cook  2  minutes ; 
add  1  cup  of  boiliug  water,  stir  and  cook  3  minutes ;  put  the  birds 


590  CHAFING    DISHES. 

on  to  buttered  toast,  pour  over  the  gravy,  and  serve.    Pigeons  or  any 

kind  of  birds  can  be  cooked  in  the  same  manner. 

The  following  dishes  may  be  cooked  in  a  chafing  dish  : 
Creamed  Lobster,  Shad  Koe, 

Lobster  a  la  Newburg,  Terrapin, 

Creamed  Oysters,  Fondue  of  Cheese, 

Eggs  in  all  styles,  All  kinds  of  cereals, 

Chicken  a  la  Poulette,  Welsh  Rarebit. 

Sweetbreads, 

Shad  Roe. ‚Äî Place  the  roe  of  a  fine  fresh  shad  in  the  lower  pan 
of  a  chafing  dish,  cover  with  cold  water,  add  2  tablespoonf  uls  vine- 
gar, 1  sliced  onion,  Yg  tablespoonf ul  salt,  1  bay  leaf,  8  whole  peppers, 
and  V4  teaspoonful  white  pepper;  light  the  lamp,  place  the  pan 
over  it,  cover  and  boil  5  minutes ;  remove  the  roe,  place  it  in  the 
upper  chafing  dish  with  1  tablespoonful  butter,  cover  and  cook  5 
minutes ;  then  turn  it  and  cook  5  minutes  on  the  other  sides.  Mix 
1  tablespoonful  butter  with  the  juice  of  Yg  lemon,  Yg  teaspoonful 
fine-chopped  parsley,  and  Y2  teaspoonful  grated  nutmeg ;  lay  the  roe 
on  to  a  dish,  spread  over  the  butter,  and  serve. 

Flounders  a  la  Dresden. ‚Äî Remove  the  fillets  from  a  2-pound 
flounder,  season  them  with  Y2  tablespoonful  salt  and  Y4  teaspoonful 
pepper,  roll  them  up  cork-shaped,  and  tie  with  a  string  or  fasten 
with  a  toothpick.  Melt  1  tablespoonful  of  butter  in  a  chafing  dish, 
put  in  the  fillets,  add  1  slice  of  carrots,  2  slices  of  onion,  cover  and 
cook  till  done ;  remove  the  fillets,  add  Ys  tablespoonful  flour  to  the 
sauce,  stir  and  cook  3  minutes,  add  ^4  cupful  water,  Ys  teaspoonful 
beef  extract,  Y2  even  teaspoonful  pepper,  Ys  bay  leaf,  cook  five  min- 
utes ;  mix  the  yolk  of  2  eggs  with  Y2  g^^l  of  cream  or  milk,  add  it  to 
the  sauce,  add  Y2  tablespoonful  lemon  Juice,  stir  2  minutes,  then 
strain  the  sauce  over  the  fillets,  and  serve.  Flounders  prepared  in 
this  way  may  be  baked  in  a  medium  hot  oven,  covered  with  but- 
tered paper,  otherwise  treated  the  same  as  above.  Another  way  is 
to  cover  one  side  of  the  fillets  with  fish  forcemeat  mixed  with  fine 
herbs,  and  cooked  in  the  same  manner  and  served  with  oyster  sauce. 


INDEX. 


Almonds. 

Salted,  531. 
Artichokes. 
Artichoke  bottoms,  stuffed,  506. 
artichokes  a  la  Barigoule,  505. 
au  naturel,  505. 
saute,  506. 

ASPAKAGUS. 

a  I'Allemande,  475. 
a  l'Am6ricaine,  475. 
a  I'ltalienne,  476. 
h,  la  vinaigrette,  476. 
fried,  477. 
Hollandaise,  475. 
salad,  477. 
stewed,  477. 
with  Latana  sauce,  476. 
with  melted  butter,  475. 
with  peas,  476. 

Bass. 

a  I'Espagnole,  229. 
a  la  Eadzivill,  229. 
a  la  St.  Helair,  228. 
baked  a  I'Espagnole,  229. 

plain,  226. 
boiled,  227. 
broiled,  226. 
fillet  of  bass,  fried,  227. 
fish  croquettes,  230. 
fried,  227. 

stuffed  with  oyster  forcemeat,  227. 
Btriped  bass  a  la  Saragossa,  228. 
where  found,  etc.,  226. 
Beans. 

Dried  Lima  beans,  490. 

red  beans,  489. 

white  beans,  490. 


Beans. 
Lima  beans,  489. 

sauted,  490. 
string  beans,  a  I'Allemande,  485. 

a  I'Americaine,  486. 

a  la  creme,  486. 

a  la  Mikado,  487. 

Hanoverian  style,  485. 

preserved,  489. 

preserved  cooked,  489. 

salad,  489. 

salted,  487. 

salted  boiled,  487. 

siilfced  with  dried  white  beans, 

sauted,  486. 

Viennoise,  486. 

with  boiled  mutton,  488. 

with  pork  and  vinegar,  486. 
Beef. 

a  la  mode,  237. 
a  la  Tartare,  249. 
braised,  232. 

a  I'Americaine,  233. 


a  la  Fran^aise,  233. 

a  la  jardiniere,  233. 
brisket,  boiled,  a  I'ltalienne,  239. 
corned  beef  and  cabbage,  257. 

how  to  boil,  256. 

with  suet  dumplings,  256. 
falscher  base,  or  mock  hare,  259. 
fillet  a  I'Americaine,  241. 

a  I'Allemande,  242. 

a  la  Berlinoise,  242. 

a  la  princesse,  243. 

braise  a  la  printanier,  243. 
flank  a  I'Allemande,  250. 

a  la  Berlinoise,  253. 


591 


592 


INDEX. 


Beef. 

Flank,  a  la  Bremoise,  254. 

a  I'ltalienne,  255. 

boiled,  with  horseradish  sauce,  254. 

rolled,  a  la  Philip,  252. 

rolled,  filled,  252. 

rolled,  in  aspic,  251. 
gulash  of  beef,  267. 
Hamburger  steak,  247. 

with  onion  sauce,  248. 
Hanoverian  steak,  248. 
heart  a  la  mariniere,  268. 

potted,  269. 

stuffed,  268. 
kidney  a  la  Baden-Baden,  264. 

boiled,  263. 

bouch^es,  263. 

on  toast,  263. 

saute,  262. 
kloppse,  258. 
liver,  fried,  262. 
marrow  bones  on  toast,  268. 
meat  pudding,  259. 
ox-tail  a  la  printanier,  265. 

stew  a  la  Mexicaine,  266. 

stew  with  cabbage,  266. 
pot  roast,  235. 

a  TAllemande,  236. 
ragout,  256. 

ribs  of  beef,  boiled,  241. 
roast  beef,  240. 

how  prepared,  240. 

with  Yorkshire  pudding,  241. 
roll  of  beef,  239. 
rouladen,  No.  1,  257. 

No.  2,  258. 
sirloin  of  beef,  a  la  Hamburgoise,  237. 
smoked  beef  a  la  Bechamel,  267. 
sour  roast,  236.' 
spiced  beef,  238. 
steak,  244. 

a  la  Colbert,  246. 

a  la  maitre  d'hotel,  246. 

a  la  Stanley,  249. 

broiled,  244. 

broiled  a  la  Bearnaise,  245. 

chuck,  broiled,  250. 

chuck,  fried,  with  tomato  sauce,  250. 

flank,  with  onions,  249. 

fried,  245. 


Beef. 
Steak,  minced,  broiled,  249. 

pie,  269. 

raw,  248. 

round,  broiled,  with  vinaigrette  sauce, 
250. 

sirloin  k  la  Milanaise,  247. 

tenderloin  h,  la  Bordelaise,  244. 

tenderloin,  broiled,  244. 

with  mushroom  sauce,  246. 

with  onions,  245. 

witli  oysters,  246. 
stew  a  I'Americaine,  255. 

with  vegetables,  255. 
tongue  a  la  financiere,  260. 

a  la  jardiniere,  261. 

boiled,  a  la  Frankfurt,  261. 

corned,  boiled,  262. 

ragout,  261. 

suited,  261. 

smoked,  boiled,  260. 

with  raisin  sauce,  260. 
tripe  a  la  maitre  d'hotel,  264. 

a  I'Espagnole,  265. 

a  la  MacFallen,  589. 

fried  a  la  mariniere,  264. 

stewed,  265. 
Beef,  Cold. 

Corned  beef  hash,  272. 
drippings,  to  clarify,  273. 
fricadellen,  270. 
hash,  272. 

how  to  make  soap,  273. 
Irish  stew  of  cold  meat,  271. 
pillauofcold  beef,  271. 
roast  beef  warmed  over,  271. 

stewed  with  vegetables,  271. 
sour  ragout,  272. 
soup  meat  a  la  Fanny,  273. 
trolley  beef,  270. 
trying  out  suet,  272. 
Beets. 
Beet  tops,  boiled,  500. 
boiled,  499. 

in  vinegar,  499. 

sliced  in  vinegar,  499. 
Blackfish. 

a  la  Stamford,  225. 
baked,  225. 
fried,  225. 


INDEX. 


693 


Bluefish. 

k  la  Bearnaise,  223. 

baked,  222. 

broiled  witb  butter  a  I'Allemande,  223. 

en  papillotes,  223. 

fried,  222. 

with  fines  herbes,  224. 
Bread. 

Biscuits,  546. 

bread,  550. 

Boston  brown  bread,  551. 

finger  rolls,  553. 

gluten  bread,  551. 

Graham  bread,  550. 

hornchens,  553. 

horns,  553. 

hot  cross  buns,  554 

raisin  bread,  552. 

rye  bread,  551. 

Vienna  rolls.  552. 

BUTTERKISH. 

a  la  marini^re,  224. 
fried,  224. 
Butters. 

Anchovy,  112. 
black  butter  sauce.  111. 
coral,  112. 
crab,  112. 
crawfish,  112. 
horseradish.  111. 
lobster,  112. 
maitre  d'hotel.  111. 
melted.  111. 
scallion.  111. 
seasoning,  111. 

Cabbage,  etc. 
Brown  kale  a  la  paysanne  d'Allemande, 
479. 
with  chestnuts, 479. 
with  pinkel,  479. 
Brussels  sprouts  a  la  creme,  483. 

sauted  in  butter,  483. 
cabbage,  creamed,  477. 
red,  a  I'Allemande,  481. 
cooked  with  apples,  481. 
rolls,  478. 

Savoy,  a  la  b^cliamel,  482. 
with  butter,  483. 
478. 


Cabbage,  etc. 
Cauliflower  a  I'Allemande,  481. 

a  la  Villeroi,  482. 

au  gratin,  482. 
sauerkraut  boiled  plain,  485. 

with  chestnut  puree,  484. 

with  Frankfurter  sausages,  4) 

with  pigs'  tails,  483. 

with  puree  of  peas,  484. 
sea  kale,  485. 
Cake,  etc. 

Almond  cookies,  569. 
angel  cake,  561. 
aniseed  wafers,  569. 
apple  fruit  cake,  567. 
banana  fritters,  573. 
Berliner  pfannkuchen,  572. 
Berlions,  566. 
biscuit  a  I'Elcita,  564. 

glace,  577. 

kippel,  568. 

Teutonia,  576. 
bonsalina  cake,  557. 
brodtorte,  560. 
butterkuchen,  556. 
Charlotte  de  Eusse,  564 
cocoanut  balls,  566. 

comforts,  568. 

cookies,  568. 
cream  cakes,  571. 
crullers,  572. 
French  crullers,  572. 
drop  cocoanut  cakes,  566. 
eclairs,  571. 
elsfelder  kranzel,  554. 
gateau  a  la  Carey,  562. 

a  la  Clarita,  563. 

a  la  maseras,  563. 
Genoises,  558. 
gingerbread,  574. 
hazelnut  torte  a  I'Emmita,  559. 
hobelspane,  570. 
ice  cream,  plain,  577. 
jessaline  cake,  557. 
Jessina  sultana,  578. 
kolatschen,  571. 

German,  573. 
Konig's  torte,  559. 
krapfeln,  571. 
lady  fingers,  578. 


594 


INDEX. 


Cake,  etc. 

Macaroons,  567. 

mandeltorte,  560. 

Melrose  pudding,  515. 

meringue,  578. 
boiled,  577. 

molasses  cake,  574. 
coflPee  cake,  574. 

Nesselrode  pudding,  576. 

New  Year's  cakes,  574. 

nohrling,  570. 

nuss  beugeln,  555. 

peanut  cakes,  558. 

peppernuts,  575. 

pound  cake,  565. 
economical,  565. 

ringlets,  565. 
Swiss,  566. 

salinen  baisses,  577. 

St.  Julia  sultana,  561. 

sandtorte,  560. 

schaumtorte  a  I'Annita,  559. 

schneeballen,  570. 

soft  cookies,  567. 

talmouses,  569. 

vanilla  kipfeln,  565. 
wafers,  568. 

zamara  cake,  568. 
Cakapes  ;  see  Sandwiches  and  Canapes. 
Cakp. 

a  la  Chambord,  194. 

broiled,  193. 

en  matelote,  193. 

fried,  192. 

a  la  mariniere,  192. 

in  Polish  sauce  (beer  fish),  193. 

roasted,  with  creme  a  I'AUemande,  194. 

roe,  194. 

where  found,  etc.,  192. 
Cakrots. 

Carrot  balls,  492. 

carrots,  spring,  and  Lima  beans,  492. 
stewed  a  I'AUemande,  492. 
Celery. 

a  la  creme,  500. 

root  salad,  500. 

with  oysters,  500. 
Chafing  Dishes,  588-590. 
Cheese  Dishes. 

Cheese  au  gratin,  530. 


Cheese  Dishes. 
Cheese  koch  a  la  Viennoise,  529. 
souffle,  529. 
straws,  531. 
fondue  au  Pannesan,  530. 

on  toast,  530. 
golden  buck,  530. 
petites  caisses  au  fromage,  529. 
ramequins,  531. 
Welsh  rarebit,  530. 
Chicken,  etc. 
Capon,  roasted,  392. 

roasted  and  filled,  392. 
with  bread  filling,  393. 
chicken  a  la  Baltimore,  360. 
a  la  creme,  365. 
a  la  Creole,  358. 
boiled  with  rice,  364. 
boned,  362. 
casserole  of,  369. 
au  riz  garnee  d'un  eiiiince  de  volaille, 
369. 
cold,  L  la  creme,  389. 
fritee  of  cold  boiled,  387. 
cold,  minced,  389. 
silan  curry  of,  388,  588. 
risotto  of,  388. 
with  oysters,  387. 
croquettes,  382. 
a  la  bechamel,  384. 
a  la  poulette,  384. 
a  la  traviete,  383. 
curry,  364. 

Indian,  425. 
epigram  of,  374. 
fillet  a  la  Maltaise,  372. 
a  la  Toulouse,  871. 
how  to  prepare  for  entries,  370. 
supreme,  371. 
forcemeat,  373. 
fricassee,  a  I'AUemande,  361. 
a  I'Americaine,  361. 
plain,  363. 

with  dumplings,  363. 
with  forcemeat  balls,  364. 
legs,  broiled,  390. 

and  joints  a  I'AUemande,  391. 
saute,  373. 
livers,  a  I'ltalienne,  890. 
broiled  with  bacon,  390. 


INDEX. 


595 


Chicken,  etc. 
Chicken  livers 
old,  roasted,  386 
how  to  cook, ; 
with  dressiug, 


pillau  a  I'Espagnole,  364. 
pot  pie,  380. 
potted,  366. 

quenelles  a  I'AUeraande,  876. 
ragout,  375. 
ragoutant,  384. 
roasted,  366. 
with  giblet,  367. 
with  bread  dressing,  368. 
with  oyster  forcemeat,  367. 
saute,  359. 

a  I'Hongroise,  360. 
souffle,  374. 
spring,  broiled,  377. 
broiled  European  style,  377. 
devilled,  378. 
fried,  No.  1,  879. 
fried.  No.  2,  379. 
Hungarian  style,  878. 
in  a  chafing-dish,  589. 
timbales,  small,  381. 

large,  376. 
with  rice,  864. 
Clams. 
a  I'Espagnole,  127. 
a  la  Gude,  588. 
a  la  Maryland,  125,  589. 
k.  la  Newport,  126. 
Brooklynaise,  126. 
chops,  128. 
croquettes,  128. 
devilled,  125. 
fritters,  129. 
on  half-shell,  124. 
patties,  128. 
pepper  roast,  hot,  126. 
pickled,  129. 
pie,  127. 
pur6e  of,  129. 
roasted,  125. 
soft-shell,  fried,  125. 
fried  in  batter,  125. 
127. 


Codfish,  Feesh. 
k  I'Alleinande,  172. 
baked,  171. 
boiled,  171. 

whole,  170. 
fillet  of,  au  gratin,  170. 
fried,  171. 
tongue  a  I'AUemande,  174. 

boiled,  with  black  butter,  173. 

boiled,  with  pepper  sauce,  173. 

fried,  173. 
Codfish,  Salt. 
a  I'AUemande,  177. 
a  I'Americaine,  177. 
a  la  creme,  176. 
a  I'Espagnole,  174. 
a  I'ltalienne,  175. 
a  la  Eosano,  175. 
balls  a  la  Patricia,  178. 
boiled,  178. 
cakes,  178. 
croquettes,  174. 
fried,  173. 

COEN. 

a  I'ltalienne,  498. 

creamed,  497. 

fritters,  496. 

green,  497. 

pudding,  496. 
mock  oysters,  496. 
succotash    of    corn    and    Lima    beans, 

497. 
succotash  of  string  beans,  497. 
Ceab. 
boiled,  137. 
devilled,  138. 

ragout,  137.  -  ‚Ä¢ 

soft  shell,  a  la  maitre  d'hotel,  138. 

fried,  188. 
Ceoustades,  Foundations,  etc. 
Border  of  croutons,  528. 
bread  croutons,  527. 

foundation,  526. 
canapes  of  bread,  527. 
crust  a  la  duehesse,  527. 
foundations,  526. 

rice,  526. 
hominy,  boiled,  528. 

fried,  528. 


596 


INDEX. 


Ceoustades,  Foundations,  etc. 
Petites  croustades  of  rice,  a  la  Parmesan, 
524. 
of  bread,  527. 
rice,  boiled  a  I'Allemaude,  522. 
rice  border,  525. 
croquettes  No.  1,  523. 

No.  2,  523. 
Milanaise,  522. 
timbales  a  la  financiere,  523. 
plain,  522. 

small,  a  la  Portuguese,  525. 
with  apples,  522. 
risotte  a  la  Milanaise,  525. 
small    rice    croustades    a    la    Toulouse, 
524. 
Cdcumbee. 
a  I'Allemande,  502. 
a  la  bechamel,  501. 
frite,  500. 
saute,  501. 
stufied,  501. 

Duck. 
a  la  Catalonia,  417. 
a  la  Valencia,  416. 
aux  olives,  418. 
Hanoverian  style,  420. 
roasted  a  I'Allem.ande,  413. 

a  I'Am^ricaine,  413. 

in  butter,  414. 
salmi  of,  415. 

a  la  Milanaise,  415. 

of  cold  roasted,  418. 

of  ducklings,  417. 

with  brown  kale,  418. 

with  sauerkraut,  419. 

See  also  Game. 

Dumplings,  Small,  etc. 

Apple  balls  for  fruit  and  soups,  82. 

bread  dumplings,  84. 

chicken  forcemeat  balls,  84. 

chicken  forcemeat,  fine  dumplings,  85. 

crab  forcemeat  balls,  87. 

decorated  forcemeat  balls,  88. 

egg  balls,  86. 

dumplings,  83. 
fish  forcemeat  balls,  86. 
forcemeat  balls  of  fish,  pork,  and  veal,  87. 
kaiser  nockerls,  71. 


Dumplings,  Small,  etc. 
Oyster  forcemeat  balls,  87. 
rice  balls,  87. 

flour  dumplings,  82. 
sausage  forcemeat  balls,  88. 
sponge  dumplings  for  fricassees,  84. 
for  soup,  83. 
with  cheese,  83. 
turtle  forcemeat  balls,  86. 
veal  forcemeat  balls,  85. 

a  la  Frangaise,  84. 
zwieback  dumplings,  82. 
See   also   Forcemeat    Balls   and   Dump- 
lings. 

Eels. 
a  la  matelote,  147. 
a  la  Normande,  145. 
a  la  Tartare,  143. 
collared,  147. 
farci,  144. 
fried,  142. 
in  beer,  144. 
in  jelly,  145. 
how  to  smoke,  148. 
mariniere,  143. 
smoked,  broiled,  148. 
with  oysters,  146. 
Egg  Plant. 
fried,  498. 
stuffed,  499. 
Eggs,  etc. 
Bird's  nest,  542. 
Eggs  a  la  de  Castellane,  539. 
au  miroir,  baked,  533. 

fried,  533. 
boiled,  532. 

for  garnishing,  532. 
cream,  540. 
cup,  on  toast,  541. 
en  croutons,  541. 
farces  a  I'Allemaude,  542. 
fried,  533. 

a  I'Allemande,  533. 
on  toast,  541. 
poached,  532. 

scrambled,  a  I'Allemande,  534. 
a  I'Americaine,  534. 
a  la  Fran^aise,  534. 
and  bacon,  534. 


INDEX. 


597 


Eggs,  etc. 
Eggs  scrambled  with  boiled  ham,  535. 
with  fines  herbes,  535. 
with  shrimps,  536. 
with  smoked  beef,  535. 
with  tomatoes,  536. 
with  trufla;es,  534. 
snow,  540. 
stuffed,  539. 
omelet  a  I'ltalienne,  538. 
cheese,  537. 

crab,  crawfish,  and  shrimp,  538. 
French,  536. 
German,  536. 
kidney,  539. 
lobster,  538. 
oyster,  537. 
Spanish,  537. 
tomato.  No.  1,  538. 
No.  2,  538. 
oysters,  nest,  541. 
shrimp,  nest,  540. 
Endives. 

With  cream,  502. 


of  anchovies,  113. 

of  chicken,  115. 

offish,  114. 

of  game,  114. 

of  mushrooms,  113. 

of  poultry,  114. 

of  spice,  113. 

of  truffles,  113. 
fines  herbes,  114. 
herbs  salt,  115. 
seasoning  salt,  115. 

Floukder  and  Sole. 
Flounder  and  its  species,  150. 
a  la  Dresden,  590. 
farci  a  la  Messalina,  155. 
fillet  a  la  Berlinoise,  151. 
k  la  Frangaise,  153. 
a  la  Viennoise,  151. 
fried,  156. 
Sole,  fillet  farci,  154. 

with  Tartar  sauce,  154. 
or  flounder  a  la  Normandie,  153. 
fillet  a  la  Venetienne,  162. 
fillet,  how  to  prepare,  150. 


Forcemeat. 
Corn  filling,  76. 
forcemeat  a  I'Espagnole,  74. 

American,  75. 

Borden,  71. 

chestnut,  74. 

clam,  77. 

crab,  77. 

fine  chicken,  77. 

fine  fish,  75. 

French  fish,  76. 

game,  77. 

giblet,  74. 

liver.  No.  1,  71. 
No.  2,  71. 

lobster,  77. 

oyster,  74. 

plain  fish,  76. 

sausage,  75. 

tomato,  77. 

veal,  No.  1,  73. 
No.  2,  73. 

with  almonds,  75. 

with  fines  herbes,  73. 
Forcemeat  Balls  and  Dumplings. 
Beef  forcemeat  balls,  78. 
cream  dumplings  for  soup,  81. 
dumplings  with  prepared  flour,  80. 
flour  dumplings,  80. 
forcemeat  balls  of  sausage  meat,  78. 
liver  balls,  79. 

a  la  royal,  79. 

dumplings,  79. 
for  soup,  79. 
potato  dumplings  of  raw  potatoes,  80. 

balls  for  soup,  81. 
Thuringer  dumplings,  80. 
See  also  Dumplings,  Small. 
Foundations;   see    Croustades,  Founda- 
tions, ETC. 
Frogs. 
a  I'Espagnole,  139. 
a  la  poulette,  139. 
broiled  a  la  maitre  d'hotel,  140. 
fried,  139. 

in  batter,  139. 

Game. 
Doe  birds  en  canapes,  439. 
Dog  birds,  broiled,  438.. 


598 


INDEX. 


Game. 

Duck,  canvas-back,  boiled,  431. 
roasted,  430. 
with  currant-jelly  sauce,  430. 

mallard,  roasted,  432. 
salmi  of,  433. 

redhead,  boiled,  432. 
roasted,  431. 

wild,  433. 
Grouse,  lillets  of,  445. 

roasted,  436. 
Guinea  hen,  potted,  391. 

roasted,  391. 
Hare  roasted  a  I'Allemande,  451. 

a  I'Anglaise,  450. 

and  rabbits,  roasted,  450. 
Partridge  a  la  Soubise,  441.  ‚Ä¢ 
Partridge,  chartreuse  of,  442. 

fillets  of,  a  la  sancroise,  445. 

larded  and  roasted,  443. 

or  prairie-hen,  roast,  tilled  with  dress- 
ing, 436. 

roasted,  441. 

saut^,  444. 
Plieasant,  roasted,  434. 
Prairie-hen,  filled,  446. 

fillets  of,  445. 

or  partridge  with  cabbage,  443. 

potted,  435. 

roasted,  435. 
Quail  a  la  maitre  d'hotel,  438. 

broiled,  plain,  437. 

in  a  chafing-dish,  589. 

potted,  served  on  canapes,  437. 

on  toast,  438. 
Kabbits,  civet  of,  451. 

hasenpfeffer  of,  452. 

roasted,  452. 
Eed  birds,  potted,  439. 

roasted,  439. 
Snipe,  English,  roasted,  440. 
Teal,  broiled,  432. 

roasted,  432. 

salmi  of,  432. 
Venison,  civet  of,  a  la  Fran¬ßaise,  448. 

cold  roast,  in  aspic,  449. 

garnished  with  aspic,  449. 

leg  of,  in  aspic,  449. 

ragout  of,  447. 

saddle  of,  roasted,  a  I'Allemande,  447. 


Game. 
Venison,  saddle  of,  with  currant  jelly, 
446. 
steak  a  la  maitre  d'hotel,  448. 

broiled,  plain,  449. 
with  currant-jelly  sauce,  448. 
Woodcock,  broiled,  440. 
roasted,  440. 
Goose. 
Aspic  de  foie  gras,  410. 
Escalops  de  foie  gras  a  la  Badoiee,  411. 
a  la  dauphine,  411. 
a  la  Maintenon,  411. 
Ganseklein  or  Scliwarzsauer,  409. 
Goose  a  la  Chipolata,  408. 
a  la  St.  Martine,  406. 
braisee  a  la  flamande,  407. 
pickled,  408. 

roasted  with  apple  dressing,  404. 
with  chestnut  dressing,  405. 
with  potato  dressing,  404. 
with  raisin  dressing,  405. 
Pate  froid  de  foie  gras,  409. 
Petites  bouchees  de  foie  gras,  412. 
de  foie  gras,  412. 


Haddock. 

a  I'ltalienne,  206. 

baked,  207. 
stuft'ed,  205. 

boiled,  207. 

dried,  207. 

fillet  a  la  maitre  d'hotel,  206. 
a  la  Normande,  206. 
a  la  Tartare  Allemande,  206. 

where  found,  etc.,  205. 
Haliuut. 

a  la  maitre  d'hotel,  156. 

a  la  Tartare,  157. 

boiled,  157> 

croquilles  de  poisson,  230. 

in  Mayonnaise,  157. 
Heering. 

a  I'ltalienne,  169. 

aux  fines  herbes,  168. 

farci,  166. 

fried,  167. 

mariniere,  168. 

rolls,  168. 

salad,  167. 


INDEX. 


599 


Hereing. 
Salt,  fried,  167. 
broiled,  167. 
with  Mayonnaise,  167. 

KlNGFISH. 

ail  gratin,  205. 
fillets  a  la  Tartare,  205. 
where  found,  etc.,  204. 
Lamb. 

Haricot  de  mouton,  307. 
Lamb  k  la  Milanaise,  307. 
breast  of,  304. 
braised,  304. 
chops,  broiled,  311. 

fried,  311. 
Epigram  of,  311. 
a  la  Villeroi,  312. 
a  I'AUemande,  307. 
broiled,  307. 
hakel-lummels,  309. 
haslet,  braised,  309. 

ragout,  308. 
leg  of,  boiled,  305. 
boiled  with  pork,  301. 
braised  a  I'AUemande,  301. 
braised  a  la  Polonaise,  301. 
ragout,  306. 

roast  a  I'Ashwarden,  302. 
a  la  Eade,  303. 
plain,  302. 

with  mint  sauce,  302. 
roasted  forequarters,  303. 
shoulder  of,  braised,  300. 
braised  a  I'ltalienne,  300. 
stuffed,  304. 
stew,  305. 

a  I'AUemande,  305. 
with  dumplings,  305. 
tongue  a  I'AUemande,  310. 
a  la  jardiniere,  310. 
a  la  Tortonia,  311. 
broiled,  311. 
trotters,  boiled,  310. 
Spring  lamb  stew,  306. 
Lettuce. 

Stuff'ed,  503. 
Lobster. 
k  la  citizen,  134. 
a  la  creme,  133. 


Lobster. 

a  la  Kewburg,  133. 
au  naturel,  132. 
broiled,  133. 
chops,  135. 
coquilles,  134. 
croquettes,  136. 
devilled,  135. 
en  val-au-vent,  136. 
how  to  choose,  132. 
patties,  135. 
ragout,  134. 
where  found,  132. 

Macaroni  and  Nudles. 
Croquettes  of  macaroni,  516. 
Macaroni  au  gratin,  516. 
Nudle  border,  520. 
Nudles,  518. 

a  I'ltalienne,  519. 

boiled,  dressed  with  pork  and  onions, 
519. 
with  bread  crumbs,  520. 

with  tomato  sauce  a  TAUemande,  519. 
Petites  croustades  of  nudles,  520. 

of  spaghetti,  516. 
Spaghetti  a  I'AUemande,  518. 

or  macaroni,  cooked  plain,  518. 
Timbales  of  macaroni,  517. 
Tomato  and  sphagetti  a  I'ltalienne,  517. 

Mackerel,  Fresh. 
a  I'AUemande,  168. 
a  I'Anglaise,  162. 
baked,  162. 

to  serve  cold,  162. 
boiled,  162. 
broiled,  161. 
fried,  160. 

a  la  maitre  d'hotel,  161. 
Spanish  mackerel,  broiled,  163. 
en  Papellotte,  164. 

Mackerel,  Salt. 
Boiled,  with  potatoes,  165. 
broiled,  165. 
fried,  165. 
with  cream  sauce,  166. 

Muffins,  Gems,  etc. 
Biscuits,  546. 
Gems,  545. 


600 


INDEX. 


Muffins,  Gems,  etc. 
Gems,  gluten,  547. 

Graham,  545. 

oatmeal,  547. 

with  yeast,  546. 
Muffins,  corn,  547. 

Graham,  545. 

hominy,  547. 

plain,  548. 

quick,  549. 

rice,  547. 

with  yeast,  545. 
Popov  ers,  548. 
Putts,  breakfast,  549. 

German,  548. 

tea,  549. 

Vienna,  548. 
Scotch  scones,  546. 
Mushrooms. 
Baked,  509. 
bouch^es,  510. 
broiled,  510. 
catsup,  511. 

how  and  where  they  grow,  508. 
in  Spanish  sauce,  511. 
pickled,  509. 
preserved  in  butter,  509. 

in  water,  510. 
saut4,  511. 
stewed,  511. 
Mussels. 

a  la  Britannia,  130. 
a  la  mariniere,  130. 
a  la  Normande,  131. 
a  la  Villeroi,  130. 
farci,  130. 

how  to  prepare,  130. 
pickled,  131. 
Mutton. 
Cotelettes  d'agneau  a  la  Villeroi,.  329. 
Irish  mutton  stew,  325. 
mutton  a  I'AUemande,  313. 

boiled,  313. 

braised  a  la  Proven^alc,  318. 

breast  of,  boiled,  320. 

cold,  croquettes,  330. 
cuiTy  of,  330. 
hashballs  of,  331. 
minced,  329. 
chops  a  la  mariniere,  320. 


Mutton. 
Chops  a  la  maitre  d'hotel,  322. 

breaded  and  broiled,  321. 

broiled,  322. 

fried,  322. 
cutlets  a  la  marquise,  320. 

a  la  Pragoise,  328. 

braised,  324. 

a  la  Proven^ale,  328. 
kidney  a  la  Mayence,  324. 

croustade,  325. 

devilled,  323. 

on  skewers,  324. 

on  toast,  325. 

saute,  323. 

with  Madeira  sauce,  324. 

with  fines  herbes,  323. 
leg  of,  a  I'Americaine,  314. 

a  la  Westphalia,  313. 

braised,  317. 

mariniere,  316. 
neck  of,  braised,  319. 
pie,  327. 

potpie,  old-fashioned,  327. 
roast,  prepared  like  venison,  316. 
saddle  of,  k  I'AUemande,  315. 

a  la  Madeira,  315. 

a  la  Milanaise,  315. 

braised  a  laFrangaise,  318. 
shoulder  of,  boiled  with  cabbage,  31 

potted,  319. 
stew,  327. 

a  la  Galizienne,  325. 

a  la  Jaworski,  326. 

with  dumplings,  326. 
Nilrnberger  cutlets,  321. 
sheep's  liver,  fried,  327. 

Nudles  ;  see  Macaroni  and  Nudles. 

Olives. 

how  to  prepare,  112. 
Onions. 

Baked,  513. 

boiled,  512. 

creamed,  512. 

farci,  512. 

fried,  513. 

glazed,  512. 

saut6d,  513. 


INDEX. 


601 


OrSTER-PLANT. 

Boiled,  504. 
fried,  504. 
frite,  504. 

OrSTEKS. 

a  la  creme,  German  style,  118. 

a  la  cress,  588. 

a  ritalienne,  121. 

a  la  maltre  d'hotel,  116. 

a  la  New  burg,  118. 

a  la  Normandie,  121. 

a  la  Vidricaire,  116. 

k  la  Villeroi,  123. 

box  stew,  117. 

broiled,  121. 

cream  stew,  117. 

creamed,  a  la  Carey,  118. 

on  toast,  117. 
chops,  123. 
croquettes,  122. 
dumplings,  122. 
en  brochette,  120. 
fried,  116. 
farci,  123. 

frites  a  la  Bearnaise,  119. 
patties,  119. 
pi'e,  124. 
pickled,  121. 
puree  on  toast,  120. 
ragout,  123. 
raw,  119. 

with  Chantilly  sauce,  119. 
roasted,  119. 
rolls,  120. 
sauted,  588. 
stew,  117. 

with  milk,  117. 
with  celery,  124. 

Pancakes. 
Buckwheat,  with  yeast,  545. 

German,  544. 
Dennett's,  544. 
Eierkuchen,  543. 
German,  543. 
hominy,  544. 
Northumbrian,  546. 
potato,  543. 
rice,  544. 
wheat,  544. 


Pancakes. 

Waffles,  549. 
Paksley. 

fried,  112. 
Paesnips. 

boiled  and  fried,  504. 
Peas. 

a  I'AUemande,  491. 

a  I'Americaine,  491. 

a  I'Anglaise,  492. 

and  carrots,  stewed,  a  I'AUemande,  491. 

modern  style,  491. 

puree,  492. 
Perch. 

a  la  bechamel,  216. 

a  la  maitre  d'hotel,  214. 

a  la  Polonaise,  214. 

au  gratin,  215. 

broiled  a  I'Americaine,  213. 
a  la  FrauQaise,  213. 

fillets  a  la  Joinville,  215. 
a  la  Villeroi,  214. 
fritd,  216. 

fried,  214. 

stewed  a  I'Anglaise,  214. 

where  found,  etc.,  213. 

with  oysters,  215. 
Pigeon. 

Cutlets  a  la  Dauphine.  421. 
a  la  Toringo,  422. 
with  olives,  421. 

filled  and  roasted,  423. 

fillets,  a  la  Pompadour,  422. 

potted,  423. 

roasted,  422. 

with  peas,  424. 

with  rice,  424. 
Pike. 

Boiled,  217. 

collared,  217. 

farci,  217. 

fillets  of,  a  la  mariniere,  219. 
with  fines  herbes,  220. 

Pastete,  220. 

stewed,  217. 

stuffed  and  baked,  218. 

where  found,  etc.,  216. 

with  sauerkraut,  219. 

P0MP.\N0. 

ii  I'AUemande,  221. 


602 


INDEX. 


PoitPANO. 

Veronitia,  221. 
Pork. 
Bacon,  boiled,  354. 
broiled,  354. 
fried,  353. 
Ham  and  eggs,  350. 
boiled,  354. 
broiled,  356. 
champagne,  .'64. 
cold,  potted,  351. 
remnants,  No.  1,  3.51. 
remnants,  No.  2,  35". 
with  cream  sauce,  351. 
corned,  boiled,  349. 
fresh,  a  la  Frangaise,  334. 
a  la  mariniere,  336. 
potted,  334. 
roasted,  335. 
stutied,  336. 
fried,  356. 
hash,  350. 
in  Burgundy,  355. 
omelette,  353. 
pie,  352. 

with  macaroni,  352. 
pudding,  353. 
plain,  350. 

sandwiches  of  biscuits,  350. 
with  Cumberland  sauce,  355. 
with  nudles,  353. 
lard,  348. 

pig's  feet,  filled,  344. 

in  jelly,  345. 

pickled,  344. 

head  cheese,  346. 

cheese  a  I'Allemande,  346. 
head,  filled,  345. 
tails  with  sauerkraut,  343. 
tongue  a  la  jardiniere,  343. 
pickled,  344. 
ragout,  343. 
roasted,  331. 

with  oyster  forcemeat,  333. 
suckling,  with  apple  dressing,  332. 
pork  chops,  broiled,  337. 
fried,  337. 
cold,  how  to  utilize,  348. 
minced,  349. 
roasted,  sour  stew  of,  349. 


Pork. 

Croquettes,  348. 

loin  of,  roasted,  333. 

potpie,  337. 

sausages.  Frankfurter,  336. 

fried,  339. 
scrapple,  347. 

shoulder  of  fresh  pork,  roasted,  337. 
spare  ribs,  filled  and  baked,  342. 

pickled,  343. 

salted,  346. 

with  sauerkraut,  343. 
stew,  338. 

with  sweet  potatoes,  338. 
tenderloin  a  la  jardiniere,  339, 

a  la  mariniere,  340. 

a  la  Viennoise,  340. 

broiled,  341. 

farci,  341. 

fried,  341. 

larded,  roasted,  339. 

short,  342. 
to  pickle,  348. 
Weissauer,  333. 
Potatoes. 
Petitcs  croustades  de  pommc  de  terre, 

466. 
Potatoes  a  I'Allemande,  467. 

a  I'Anglaise,  465. 

a  la  Batiere,  466. 

a  la  Bismarck,  464. 

a  la  Diana,  468. 

a  la  Duchesse,  461. 

a  la  Florenza,  463. 

a  la  Hanovi-ienne,  467. 

a  I'ltalienne,  459. 

a  la  maitre  d'hotel,  467. 

a  la  Minden,  464. 

a  la  Parisienne,  463. 

a  la  Patricia,  460. 

a  la  Princesse,  464. 

a  la  Sarah  Bernhardt,  464. 

a  la  Teutonia,  459. 

a  la  Wurthfleth,  464. 

baked,  459. 

balls,  463. 

a  I'Allemande,  460. 

boiled  with  the  skin,  458. 

cakes  a  la  Limerick,  461. 

chateau,  462. 


INDEX. 


603 


Potatoes.  ' 
Cold,  hashed,  469. 

hashed  with  onions,  470. 

with  green  onions,  470. 
croquettes,  460. 
dumplings,  469. 

with  bread  croutons,  469. 

with  farina,  469. 
French  fried,  462. 
fried,  470. 
fritee,  467. 

fritee  a  I'Allenaande,  458. 
Lyonnaise,  461. 
Messalina,  466. 
mashed,  459. 
plain  boiled,  458. 
puree,  459. 

raw,  fried  with  pork,  461. 
sauted,  465. 

a  I'AUemande,  458. 
shaving,  464. 
soutfl.ee,  459. 
straws,  462. 
stuffed,  463. 
sweet,  balls,  471. 

boiled,  471. 

boiled  and  baked,  471. 

croquettes,  470. 
Viennoise,  468. 
with  parsley  sauce,  468. 
Saratoga  chips,  462. 
Poultry. 
drawing,  358. 
how  to  choose,  357. 
how  to  kill,  357. 
Punches. 
Eggnog,  584. 
lemonade,  extra  fine,  584. 

hot,  584. 
May  bowl,  585. 
orange  cardinal,  581. 
pineapple  cardinal,  581. 
punch,  brandy,  582. 

champagne,  582. 

claret,  582. 
cold,  581. 
hot,  581. 

cold  cream,  582. 

Eldorado,  583. 

fruit,  584. 

80 


Punches. 

Gin,  cold,  583. 
hot,  580. 

imperial  ice,  579. 
lemon,  581. 
milk,  583. 

hot,  583. 

plain,  583. 

with  egg,  No.  1,  583. 

with  egg,  No.  2,  583. 
orange,  581. 
port  wine,  582. 
regent,  580. 
Eoman  ice,  579. 
royal,  No.  1,  580. 

No.  2,  580. 
rum,  580. 

hot,  584. 
sherry,  582. 
strawberry,  581. 
vanilla,  582. 
whisky,  hot,  584. 

PUEEES,  ETC. 

Chestnut,  614. 

a  I'Espagnole,  514. 

a  la  creme,  515. 

saute  in  butter,  514. 
lentils,  stewed,  514. 
of  dried  peas,  513. 

Eed  Snapper. 
a  la  Bearnaise,  208. 
stuffed  and  baked,  208. 
where  found,  etc.,  207. 

Salmon. 
a  la  Bismarck,  187. 
a  la  mariniere,  183. 
a  la  Kichelieu,  182. 
boiled,  180. 

served  cold,  with  Mayonnaise,  180. 
broiled  a  PArminius,  184. 

a  rAmerieaine,  184. 

in  paper,  183. 

with  sauce  Bearnaise,  184. 
cotelettes,  184. 
en  papillottes,  184. 
grille  k  la  Periggueux,  182. 
how  to  truss  and  boil  a  whole  fish,  179. 
in  aspic,  185. 


604 


INDEX. 


Salmon. 
Pickled,  186. 
preserved,  188. 
Bmoked,  188. 
salted,  boiled,  187. 

broiled,  187. 
smoked,  broiled,  187. 
where  found,  etc.,  179. 
Salmon  Trout. 
a  la  Bearnaise,  189. 
a  la  creme,  189. 

cooked  in  wine  a  I'Allemande, 
where  found,  etc.,  188. 
with  Mayonnaise,  189. 
Salpicon. 

a  la  chasseur,  428. 

a  la  tinanciere,  426. 

a  la  Palerinotaine,  427. 

a  la  royale,  427. 

a  la  Toulouse,  No.  1,  426. 

No.  2,  426. 
of  fish,  428. 
of  lobster,  427. 
of  oysters,  428. 
Sandwiches  and  Canapes. 
Canapes  aux  ecrevisses,  455. 

d'anchovies,  455. 

of  herring,  456. 

of  lobster,  456. 

of  sardines,  454. 

Lorenzo  a  la  Filippini,  456. 

sauce  for,  454. 
Sandwiches,  454. 
Sauces. 
Anchovy,  102. 
bechamel,  99. 

a  I'Allemande,  99. 
bordelaise,  90. 
brown  onion,  93. 
butter,  101. 
caper,  102. 
celery,  101. 
champagne,  94. 
chestnut,  105. 
Colbert,  98. 
crab  and  lobster,  102. 
cream,  99. 
Cumberland,  97. 
egg,  101. 
English  bread,  95. 


Sauces. 
English  gooseberry,  96. 
German  cherry,  96. 
Helgolander,  91. 
Hollandaise,  tine,  90. 
horseradish,  90. 
lobster,  102. 
Madeira,  97. 
mushroom,  No.  1,  96. 

No.  2,  96. 
mustard,  a  I'Allemande,  103. 

economical,  103. 
olive,  94. 
onion,  92. 
oyster,  96. 
Paprika,  103. 
parsley,  101. 
Polish,  94. 

princess ;  see  fillet  of  beef  a  la  princcsse. 
raisin,  94. 

sauce  a  I'Allemande,  100. 
a  la  diable,  106. 
a  la  financiere,  97. 
a  I'ltalienne,  brown,  100. 

white,  100. 
a  la  Politaine,  97. 
a  la  Stanley,  103. 
a  la  Toulouse,  92. 
a  la  venaison,  105. 
au  Salmis,  104. 
Bearnaise,  98. 
de  Gourmets,  95. 
Hollandaise,  91. 
matelote,  92. 
piquante,  91. 
Poivrade,  No.  1,  90. 

No.  2,  104. 
Kobert,  105. 
shrimp,  102. 
sirup,  93. 
Spanish,  93. 
supreme,  99. 
tomato,  k  I'Allemande,  94 

a  la  FranQaise,  95. 
truflSe,  103. 
velvote,  98. 
Villeroi,  101. 
white  onion,  93. 
Sauces,  Cold. 
Benton,  109. 


INDEX. 


605 


Sauces,  Cold. 
Chantilly,  108. 
egg,  101. 

for  lettuce,  109. 
English  mustard,  how  to  mix,  109. 
game,  109. 

German  cream,  for  lettuce,  109. 
herring,  108. 

horseradish,  how  to  prepare,  110. 
latana,  108. 
Mayonnaise,  110. 

German,  110. 
mint,  108. 
radish,  108. 
ravigote,  109. 
remoladen,  107. 
sauce,  a  la  maitre  d'hotel,  109. 

Tartare,  107. 
German,  107. 

vinegretti,  108. 
Scallops. 
a  la  marini^re,  142. 
devilled,  142. 
fried,  141. 
on  toast,  142. 
Shad. 
a  I'Allemande,  197. 
a  la  Castellano,  201. 
baked,  199. 

with  tilling,  199. 
broiled,  196. 
fillet  a  la  Eoraaine,  200. 
fried,  196. 

a  I'Allemande,  200. 
roe,  187. 

a  la  jardiniere,  197. 

broiled,  198. 

in  a  chafiing-dish,  590. 

on  toast,  198. 
Bait,  boiled,  202. 

broiled,  202. 
where  found,  etc.,  196. 

SHEEPSHEAD. 

a  la  Creole,  204. 
a  la  Normande,  203. 
a  la  Tartare,  203. 
boiled,  202. 
Shrimps. 
Boiled,  131. 
with  Mayonnaise,  131. 


Shrubs,  Fruit,  etc. 
Liqueur,  absinthe,  587. 
lemon.  No.  1,  586. 
No.  2,  587. 

raspberry,  587. 

vanilla,  587. 
shrub,  cherry,  586. 

currant,  586. 

lemon,  586. 

raspberry,  586. 
Smelts. 
a  la  Bremoise,  149. 
a  la  Dresden,  148. 
broiled,  149. 
fried  in  pork,  148. 
mariuiere,  150. 
Sole  ;  see  Flounder  and  Sole. 
Soups. 
Asparagus,  13. 
barley,  how  prepared  for,  52. 

plain,  34. 
bisque  of  clams,  54. 

of  clam  bouillon,  55. 

of  crab,  57. 

of  crab  a  I'Allemande,  56. 

of  lobster,  57. 
bouillon  with  rice,  11. 
bouquets,  large,  1. 

small,  1. 
bread  croutons  for,  52. 
carp,  54. 

cheese  croutons  for,  52. 
chicken,  25. 

a  I'ltalienne,  26. 

a  la  Maryland,  26. 

broth,  3. 
chilfinade,  20. 
clam,  55. 

chowder,  55. 

cream  stew,  55. 
consomm^  a  la  Brunoise,  10. 

a  I'ltalienne,  8. 

au  Kisotto  a  I'ltalienne,  8. 

au  riz  a  la  Turque,  7. 

aux  profiteroles,  6. 
a  I'ltalienne,  6. 

aux  ravioles,  5. 
a  la  Genoise,  5. 
croutes  gratin^es,  5. 

garbure  a  I'ltalienne,  7. 


606 


INDEX. 


Soups. 
Consomme  Milanaise,  3. 

St.  Ilelaire,  9. 

with  garbure  aux  laitues,  10. 

with  Kaiser-nockerl,  6. 

with  macaroni  and  tomatoes,  10. 

with  potato  dumplings,  9. 

with  rice,  4. 

with  sago,  5. 
corn,  19. 

and  tomato,  18. 
cream  k  la  Printanier,  .36. 

of  asparagus,  .35. 

of  carrots,  37. 

of  cauliflower,  31. 
a  la  Fran^aise,  33. 

of  celery,  36. 

of  dried  beans,  38. 

of  dried  peas,  38. 

of  lentils,  38. 

of  fresh  Lima  beans,  38. 

of  oysters,  56. 

of  pearl  barley,  34. 

of  rice,  35. 

a  la  royale,  35. 

of  sorrel,  38. 

of  turnips,  37. 
dried  bean,  20. 
egg  crumbs,  71. 
egg  custard  for,  70. 
Einlauf,  24. 
farina  biscuit,  71. 
farina  for,  52. 
fish  chowder,  53. 

soup,  53. 
giblet,  22. 
glac6,  4. 
green  turtle,  59. 

how  to  preserve,  58. 
gumbo,  15. 
Italian  paste  for,  53. 

vegetable  (Menestra),  15. 
Julienne,  12. 
kidney,  22. 
lark,  26. 
lentil,  21. 
lettuce  cream,  39. 
macaroni  for,  53. 
macaroni,  53. 
matelote,  61. 


Socps. 
Miugle-mengle,  20. 
mock  turtle,  28. 
Mongole,  15. 
mutton,  22. 
mutton  broth,  3. 
nudle,  24. 
oxtail,  28. 

oyster,  with  milk,  56. 
pea,  with  pig's  feet,  21. 
pigeon,  a  la  creme,  30. 
for  the  sick,  27. 
with  dumplings,  27. 
plain  stock,  2. 
potage  k  la  Clermont,  50. 
a  la  Crecy,  40. 
a  la  creme  d'orge,  40. 
a  la  creme  d'orge  a  la  pur^e  de  vo- 

laille,  45. 
a  la  creme  de  riz  a  I'Allemande,  40. 
a  la  creme  de  riz  a  I'essence  d'ecre- 

visse,  61. 
a  la  dauphine,  49. 
a  I'imperiale,  39. 
a  la  raulligatawney,  39. 
a  la  puree  de  carottes  a  la  "Winton,  42. 
de  pommes  de  terre,  41. 
d'asperges,  48. 
de  celeri  a  la  creme,  43. 
de  choux-tieurs,  48. 
de  faisan,  46. 
d'haricots,  42. 

des  lentilles  a  la  Cond4,  41. 
de  marrons  a  la  dauphine,  42. 
de  navets  a  la  creme,  44. 
d'oignons  a  la  creme,  44. 
de  perdreaux  a  la  dauphine,  47. 
de  poireau,  41. 
de  pois  verts,  47. 
de  volaille  a  la  Eeine,  45. 
de  volaille  a  la  Comtesse,  47. 
a  la  Eegence,  49. 
vitricare,  44. 

d'abatis  de  dinde  a  la  Eusse,  49. 
d'anguille  a  la  Hambourgeois  (Ham- 
burger Aal-Suppe),  60. 
d'anguille  a  la  mariniere,  60. 
potato  cream,  37. 
without  meat,  19. 
rice  for,  52. 


INDEX. 


607 


Soups. 
Eoyal,  11. 
Kussian,  50. 

vegetable,  51. 
sago  for,  52. 
soup  a  la  Chesterfield,  13. 

k  la  duchesse,  29. 

k  I'ltalienne,  16. 

k  la  Printanier,  13. 

a  la  Eeine,  80. 

k  la  Vertpre,  31. 

a  la  Victoria,  81. 

biscuit,  70. 

de  mouton  Anglaise,  16. 

with    chicken  -  forcemeat     dumplings, 
27. 

with  marrow  balls,  28. 
split  pea,  21. 
spring,  12. 

herb,  13. 
Stchy  aux  choux  nouveaux,  51. 
tapioca  for  soup,  52. 
tomato,  17. 

corn,  18. 

cream,  17. 

without  meat,  17. 

with  egg  balls,  18. 
snapping  turtle,  59. 
turkey,  26. 
Turkish,  25. 
veal,  28. 

broth,  4. 
vegetable,  14. 
vermicelli  cream,  33. 

for  soup,  53. 
white  stock,  2. 
Xavier,  32. 
Soups,  Beer,  Milk,  and  Chocolate. 
Beer  a  la  creme,  67. 
milk  plain,  68. 

with  buckwheat  grits,  69. 

with  dumplings,  68. 

with  egg  crumbs,  69. 

with  farina,  69. 

with  nudles,  69. 

with  oatmeal,  68. 

with  rice,  68. 

with  sago,  68. 

with  snowballs,  68. 
soup  a  la  blere,  67. 


Soups,  Fruit  and  Wine. 
Apple,  No.  1,  64. 

No.  2,  64. 
buttermilk,  69. 

with  barley,  69. 

with  dumplings,  69. 

with  rice,  69. 
cherry,  69. 
cuiTant,  65. 
gooseberry,  65. 
grape,  65. 
huckleberry,  66. 
lemon,  66. 
peach,  64. 
pineapple,  66. 
prune,  66. 
raspberry,  65. 
strawberry,  65. 
wine,  67. 

cream,  67. 

zwieback,  67. 
Soups  without  Meat, 
Bean,  63. 
bread,  62. 
green  pea,  62. 
mushroom,  62. 
onion,  63. 
split  peas,  63. 
tomato,  63. 
Spaghetti  ;  see  Macaroni  ai7d  Nudles. 
Spinach,  etc. 
Sorrel  with  cream,  503. 
spinach  a  I'Allemande,  480. 

a  I'Americaine,  480. 

a  la  creme,  480. 

a  I'Espagnole,  480. 
Squash. 

Squash,  496. 
Sweetbreads,  etc. 
Calves'  brain  h.  1' Alfonso,  299. 

blanched,  297. 

coquilles  of,  298. 
petites  casses  de  cervelles,  298. 
sweetbreads  a  la  B^arnaise,  297. 

k  la  Fonchonette,  299. 

cooked  with  roast  veal,  296. 

frit6  k  la  mariniere,  285. 

how  to  blanch  and  prepare,  295. 
saute,  296. 
scallops  of,  with  mushrooms,  299. 


608 


INDEX. 


Sweetbreads,  etc.  ^ 

What  they  are,  295. 
with  green  peas,  296. 

Terrapin. 

a  la  Brooklyn,  Hamilton  club,  141. 
a  la  Maryland,  140. 
a  la  JSiewburg,  141. 
how  to  prepare  and  cook,  140. 
Morensi,  141. 
Tomatoes,  etc. 
Peppers,  stuffed  green,  474. 
Tomatoes  a  la  Traviata,  473. 

baked,  473. 

fried,  471. 

gratines,  473. 

roasted,  473. 

salad,  474. 

sauted,  472. 

stewed,  471. 
canned,  474. 

stuffed,  472. 

toast,  474. 

with  rice  forcemeat,  472. 
Trout. 
Baked  in  paper,  191. 
broiled,  191. 
fried,  190. 

where  found,  etc.,  190. 
See  also  Salmon  Trout. 
Truffles. 
a  ITtalienne,  508. 
au  naturel,  508. 

how  and  where  they  grow,  507. 
how  to  prepare,  507. 

TURBOT. 

American,  a  la  diplomate,  158. 
broiled,  159. 
English,  boiled, 
gratine,  159. 
glace  a  I'admiral,  160. 
where  found,  etc.,  158. 
Turkey. 
Aspic  or  jelly  for  boned  turkey,  402. 
boiled  a  I'Allemande,  396. 

with  celery  sauce,  397. 

with  oyster  sauce,  397. 
cold  a  la  bc^chamel,  398. 

and  oysters,  400. 

boned,  401. 


Turkey. 
Cold,  croquettes  of,  400. 

curry  of,  399. 

in  aspic,  403. 

in  jelly,  400. 

ragout,  401. 

salad,  399. 

silan  curry,  399. 
dressed  with  truffles  a  la  rran9ai8e,  398. 
roasted  a  TAllemande,  393. 

plain,  398. 

with  bread  dressing,  394. 

with  bread  dressing,  American  style, 
395. 

with  chestnut  dressing,  395. 

with  sage  dressing,  395. 
Turnips. 
Turnip  balls,  494. 
with  bouillon,  495. 
Kussian,  boiled,  495. 

creamed,  495. 

with  bacon  and  potatoes,  495. 

with  Frankfurter  sausage,  494. 

with  lamb,  494. 
white  a  la  creme,  493. 

puree,  494. 

Veal. 
Calfs  brain,  coquilles  of,  with  tomatoes, 
293. 

fried,  292. 
feet  frit^  with  Allemande  sauce,  282. 
head,  boiled,  283. 

how  to  bone  and  boil,  283. 
liver  a  la  maitre  d'hotel,  286. 
and  bacon,  fried,  286. 


broiled,  286. 

fried,  286. 

potted,  285. 

stewed,  287. 
tongue  a  la  Espagnole,  294. 

a  la  jardiniere,  293. 

ragout,  281. 
Veal  a  la  bdchamel,  289. 
blanquette  of,  a  PAllemande,  280. 
breast  of,  278. 
cold,  warmed  over,  288. 

with  cream  sauce,  288. 
croquettes.  No.  1,  289. 


INDEX. 


609 


Veal. 

Croquettes,  No.  2,  290. 
cutlets,  broiled,  291. 
fried,  291. 

en  papillotes,  290. 
in  paper,  291. 
larded,  with  spinach,  292. 
Macedoine,  291. 


hash,  288. 

with  oysters,  289. 
kidney,  283. 

loin  of,  a  la  princesse,  275. 
oysters,  290. 

roast,  breast,  k  I'Allemande,  277. 
roasted,  leg,  a  I'Allemande,  274. 

a  1' America!  ne,  274. 

loin,  275. 
rolls,  282. 
roulade,  279. 

saddle,  k  I'Allemande,  276. 
shoulder,  stuffed,  277. 
stew,  k  I'Americaine,  280. 

k  I'Espagnole,  284. 

k  ritalienne,  284. 

k  I'Hanovrienne,  281. 


Veal. 
fricandeau,  a  la  jardiniere,  294. 

a  I'Allemande,  295. 
Heidelberger  steak,  293. 
mock  turtle,  ragout,  284. 
pate  froid  de  veau  (Kalte  Kalbspastete), 

287. 
Vienna  schnitzel,  292. 

Weakfish. 

a  la  Polonaise,  211. 

a  la  Eothschild,  210. 

a  la  Tartare,  212. 

baked,  212. 
a  la  Eachel,  211. 

fillets  of,  212. 

fried,  212. 

where  found,  etc.,  210. 
Whitebait. 

a  la  Tartare  Allemande,  209. 

broiled,  209. 

description,  209. 

fried,  209. 
Whitefish. 

broiled,  210. 

where  found,  etc.,  210. 


THE    END. 


^l  /        <^*  'X' 


bo^ 


=6        .-0"  ^^ '!!*-/  ^<^ 


:'^ij 


vOo^ 


^^  '^ 


V    v'' 


K^'     ^ 


V 


,S^  ^, 


^t^^ 


.^^"^r>. 


.V 


'<t.         .^^-  .^ "::: ¬´ .  '9-.        ro--  x  ^ ';,:  %  '^^        .a'^^''  . ^  ¬∞ !  "^ ¬´ .  '^b. 


^         ->'^  a\  -s      .^ 


'%','-   :iiMk\  %-.<^^' 


:  -r-"^. 


:     o^  -r. 


<^\. 


vO  o^       r  ^;^ 


'\; 


,0( 


b^%,  V'^wi  / 


-^^  c<i 


'T  .' 


,0  o^ 


o  0' 

rv*^  Iff)         '^:-  \  >      s  -  ' 


V        K*-- 


¬´:   ‚ñÝ^..^-   .%^i.‚Äû  /:\./' 


‚Ä¢.s^  >^^. 


vO  o^ 


‚Ä¢^,^^'    :,ei¬´:   %/:V^^'^^%,#    ^^^"^"'- 


.o^ 


^'.^g 


^%  ^.srm:  ‚ñÝf 


.<^^^. 


-n^-    V^      =. 


'be 


V"--\o^V 


o  0^ 


.‚ñÝ^  *^;2r^ " 


j/i  /^ 


,"^^1^.^ 


x'^^      ."^ 


/  .^      xv 

V 

\ 


(^<>'.  '.^^v-^ 


v^^^ 


ex:,' 


rf 


-  0 


.v^^' 


,;^.^x^ 


vOo. 


'/'_  ' 


"     0 
\ 


>>"    <v'?- 


1^ 


)>  -        \V 


\        ^  '>r^' 


/  *    S    1    A  \\ 


\'.        ^'^      ^ 


^.  v^^ 


LIBRARY  OF  CONGRESS 


‚Ä¢','V:!;>:;;^i'i 


iitPi 


