THE  UNIVERSITY 
OF  ILLINOIS 
LIBRARY 

Prom  the  collection  of 
Julius  Doerner,  Chicago 
Purchased,  1918. 

04-15 

N3le 


REMC 


t’ 

■ • sH 


V 


THE  EVERYDAY  COOK-BOOK. 


Of  all  the  parts  upon  which  the  physical  well-being  of 
man,  in  his  social  state,  is  dependent,  none  has  been 
more  neglected  than  that  of  cookery,  though  none  is 
more  important,  for  it  supplies  the  very  fountain  of  life. 
The  preparation  of  human  food,  so  as  to  make  it  at 
once  wholesome,  nutritive,  and  agreeable  to  the  palate, 
has  hereto  been  beset  by  imaginary  difficulties  and 
strong  prejudices. 

Many  persons  associate  the  idea  of  wealth  with  culi- 
nary pei'fection;  others  consider  unwholesome,  as  well  as 
expensive,  everything  that  goes  beyond  the  categories 
of  boiling,  roasting,  and  the  gridiron.  ' All  are  aware 
that  wholesome  and  luxurious  cookery  is  by  no  means 
incompatible  with  limited  pecuniary  means;  whilst  in 
roasted,  boiled,  and  broiled  meats  which  constitute 
what  is  termed  true  American  fare,  much  that  is  nutri' 
tive  and  agreeable  is  often  lost  for  want  of  skill  in  pre- 
paring them.  Food  of  every  description  is  wholesome 
and  digestible  in  proportion  as  it  approaches  nearer  to 
the  state  of  complete  digestion,  or,  in  other  words,  to 
that  state  termed  chyme^  whence  the  chyle  or  milky 
juice  that  afterwards  forms  blood  is  absorbed,  and  con- 
veyed to  the  heart.  Now  nothing  is  further  from  this 
state  than  raw  meat  and  raw  vegetables.  Fire  is  there- 
fore necessary  to  soften  them,  and  thereby  begin  that 
elaboration  which  is  consummated  in  the  stomach.  The 
preparatory  process,  which  forms  the  cook’s  art,  is  more 
^ less  perfect  in  proportion  as  the  ailment  is  softened, 
without  losing  any  of  its  juices  or  flavor — for  flavor  is 

468966 


THE  EVERYDAY  COOKBOOK. 


not  only  an  agreeable  but  a necessary  accompaniment 
to  wholesome  food.  Hence  it  follows,  that  meat  very 
much  underdone,  whether  roasted  or  boiled,  is  not  so 
wholesome  as  meat  well  done  but  retaining  all  its 
juices.  And  here  comes  the  necessity  for  the  cook’s 
skill,  which  is  so  often  at  fault  even  in  these  simple 
modes  of  preparing  human  nourishment. 

Pork,  veal,  lamb,  and  all  young  meats,  when  not 
thoroughly  cooked,  are  absolute  poison  to  the  stomach; 
and  if  half -raw  beef  or  mutton  are  often  eaten  with  im- 
punity, it  must  not  be  inferred  that  they  are  unwhole- 
some in  their  semicrude  state,  but  only  less  wholesome 
than  the  young  meats. 

Vegetables,  also,  half  done,  which  is  the  state  in 
W'hich  they  are  often  sent  to  the  table,  are  productive  of 
great  gastric  derangement,  often  of  a predisposition  to 
cholera. 

A great  variety  of  relishing,  nutritive,  and  even 
elegant  dishes,  may  be  prepared  from  the  most  homely 
materials,  which  may  not  only  be  rendered  more  nour- 
ishing, but  be  made  to  go  much  farther  in  a large  family 
than  they  usually  do.  The  great  secret  of  all  cookery, 
except  in  roasting  and  broiling,  is  a judicious  use  of 
butter,  flour  and  herbs,  and  the  application  of  a very 
slow  fire — for  good  cooking  requires  only  gentle  sim- 
mering, but  no  boiling  up,  which  only  renders  the 
meat  hard.  Good  roasting  can  only  be  acquired  by 
practice,  and  the  perfection  lies  in  cooking  the  whole 
joint  thoroughly  without  drying  up  the  juice  of  any 
part  of  it.  This  is  also  the  case  with  broiling;  while  a 
joint  under  process  of  boiling,  as  we  have  said,  should 
be  allowed  to  simmer  gently. 

With  regard  to  made-dishes,  as  the  horrible  imitations 
of  French  cookery  prevalent  in  America,  are  termed, 
we  must  admit  that  they  are  very  unwholesome.  All 
the  juices  are  boiled  out  of  the  meat,  which  is  swim- 


TEE  EVERYDAY  COOK-BOOK, 


ming  in  a heterogenous  compound,  disgusting  to  the 
sight,  and  seasoned  so  strongly  Vvith  spice  and  Cayenne 
pepper  enough  to  inhame  the  stomach  of  an  ostrich. 

French  cookery  is  goneraH}'  mild  in  seasoning,  and 
free  from  grease;  it  is  formed  on  the  above  stated 
principle  of  reducing  the  aliment  as  near  to  the  state  of 
chyme  as  possible,  without  injury  to  its  nutritive  qual- 
ities, rendering  it  at  once  easy  of  digestion  and  pleas- 
ant to  the  taste. 

HINTS  ON  MARKETING 

In  the  first  place,  the  housewife  ought,  where  it  is 
possible,  to  do  her  marketing  herself,  and jpay  ready 
money  for  everything  she  purchases.  This  is  the  only 
way  in  which  she  can  be  sure  of  getting  the  best  goods 
at  the  lowest  price.  We  repeat  that  this  is  the  only 
way  compatible  with  economy;  because,  if  a servant  be 
entrusted  with  the  buying,  she  will,  if  not  a good  judge 
of  the  quality  of  articles,  bring  home  those  she  can  get 
for  the  least  money  (and  these  are  seldom  the  cheapest); 
and  even  if  she  is  a good  judge,  it  is  ten  to  one  against 
her  taking  the  trouble  to  make  a careful  selection. 

When  the  ready-money  sj^stem  is  found  inconvenient, 
and  an  account  is  run  with  a dealer;  the  mistress  of  the 
house  ought  to  have  a pass-book  in  which  she  should 
write  down  all  the  orders  herself,  leaving  the  dealer  tc 
fill  in  the  prices.  Where  this  is  not  done;  and  the  mis- 
tress neglects  to  compare  the  pass-book  with  the  goods 
ordered  every  time  they  are  brought  in,  it  sometimes 
happens,  either  by  mistake,  or  dishonesty  of  the  dealer 
or  servant,  that  goods  are  entered  which  were  never 
ordered  perhaps  never  had,  and  that  those  which  were 
ordered  are  ovei -charged;  and  if  these  errors  are  not 
detected  at  the  time,  they  are  sure  to  be  difficult  of 
adjustment  afterwards.  For  these  and  other  economic 
reasons,  the  housewife  should  avoid  running  accounts< 
and  pay  ready  money. 


THE  EVERYDAY  GOOK-BOOK. 


0 

RULES  FOR  EATING. 

Db-  Hall,  on  this  important  subject,  gives  the  follow- 
ing advice: 

1.  Never  sit  down  to  a table  with  an  anxious  or 
disturbed  mind;  better  a hundred  times  intermit  that 
meal,  for  there  will  then  be  that  much  more  food  in  the 
world  for  hungrier  stomachs  than  yours;  and  besides, 
eating  under  such  circumstances  can  only,  and  will  al- 
ways, prolong  and  aggravate  the  conditions  of  things. 

2.  Never  sit  down  to  a meal  after  any  intense  mental 
effort,  for  physical  and  mental  injury  are  inevitable, 
and  no  one  has  a right  to  deliberately  injure  body,  mind 
or  estate. 

3.  Never  go  to  a full  table  during  bodily  exhaustion 
— designated  by  some  as  being  worn  out,  tired  to  death, 
used  up,  over  done,  and  the  like.  The  wisest  thing  to 
be  done  under  such  circumstances  is  to  take  a cracker 
and  a cup  of  warm  tea,  either  black  or  green,  and  no 
more  In  ten  minutes  you  will  feel  a degree  of  refresh- 
ment and  liveliness  which  will  be  pleasantly  suprising 
to  you;  not  of  the  transient  kind  which  a glass  of  liquor 
affords,  but  permanent;  but  the  tea  gives  present  stim- 
ulus and  a little  strength,  and  before  it  subsides  nutri- 
ment begins  to  draw  from  the  sugar,  and  cream,  and 
bread  thus  allowing  the  body  gradually,  and  by  safe 
degrees,  to  regain  its  usual  vigor.  Then,  in  a couple  of 
hours,  a full  meal  may  be  taken,  provided  that  it  does 
not  bring  it  later  than  two  hours  before  sundown;  if 
later,  then  take  nothing  for  that  day  in  addition  to  the 
cracker  and  tea,  and  the  next  day  you  will  feel  a fresh- 
ness and  vigor  not  recently  known. 

No  lady  will  require  to  be  advised  a second  time,  who 
will  conform  to  the  above  rules;  while  it  is  a fact  of  no 
unusual  observation  among  intelligent  physicians,  that 
eating  hearty  under  bodily  exhaustion,  is  not  unfre- 


TEE  EVERYDAY  COOK-BOOK. 


11 


quently  the  cause  of  alarming  and  painful  illness,  and 
somestimes  sudden  death.  These  things  being  so,  lot 
every  family  make  it  a point  to  assemble  around  the 
table  with  kindly  feelings — with  a cheerful  humor,  and 
a courteous  spirit;  and  let  that  member  of  it  be  Sv^nt 
from  it  in  disgrace  who  presumes  to  mnr  the  reunion  by 
sullen  silence,  or  impatient  look,  or  angjy  tone,  or  com- 
plaining tongue.  Eat  ever  in  thankful  gladness,  or 
away  with  you  to  the  kitchen,  you  ^dll-tempered  thing, 
that  you  are.”  There  was  good  philosophy  in  the  old 
time  custom  of  having  a butfoon  or  music  at  the  dinner- 
table. 

HOW  TO  CHOOSE  MEAT. 

Ox-beef,  when  it  is  young,  will  have  a fine  open 
grain,  and  a good  red  color;  the  fat  should  be  white, 
for  when  it  is  of  a deep  yellow  color,  the  meat  is  sel- 
dom very  good.  The  grain  of  cow-beef  is  closer,  the 
fat  whiter,  and  the  lean  scarcely  so  red  as  that  of  ox- 
beef.  When  you  see  beef,  of  which  the  fat  is  hard  and 
skinny,  and  the  lean  of  a deep  red,  you  may  be  sure 
that  it  is  of  an  inferior  kind;  and  when  the  meat  is  old, 
you  may  know  it  by  a line  of  horny  texture  running 
through  the  meat  of  the  ribs. 

Mutton  must  be  chosen  by  the  firmness  and  fineness 
of  the  grain,  its  good  color,  and  firm  white  fat.  It  is 
not  considered  prime  until  the  sheep  is  about  five 
years  old. 

Lamb  will  not  keep  long  after  it  is  killed.  It  can  be 
discovered  by  the  neck  end  in  the  fore-quarter  if  it  has 
been  killed  too  long,  the  veins  in  the  neck  being  bluish 
when  the  meat  is  fresh,  but  green  when  it  is  stale.  In 
the  hind  quarter,  the  same  discovery  may  be  made  by 
examining  the  kidney  and  the  knuckle,  for  the  former 
has  a slight  smell,  and  the  knuckle  is  not  firm  when 
the  meat  has  been  killed  too  long. 


13 


THE  EVERYDAY  COOK-BOOK. 


Pork  should  have  a thin  rind;  and  when  it  is  fresh, 
the  meat  is  smooth  and  cool;  but,  when  it  looks  flabby, 
and  is  clammy  to  the  touch,  it  is  not  good;  and  pork, 
above  all  meat,  is  disagreeable  when  it  is  stale.  If  you 
perceive  many  enlarged  glands,  or,  as  they  are  usually 
termed,  kernels,  in  the  fat  of  the  pork,  you  may  con- 
clude that  the  pork  can  not  be  wholesome. 

Veal  is  generally  preferred  of  a delicate  whiteness, 
but  it  is  more  juicy  and  well-flavored  when  of  a deeper 
color.  Butchers  bleed  calves  profusely  in  order  to  pro- 
duce this  white  meat;  but  this  practice  must  certainly 
deprive  the  meat  of  some  of  its  nourishment  and  flavor. 
When  you  choose  veal,  endeavor  to  look  at  the  loin, 
which  affords  the  best  means  of  judging  of  the  veal 
generally,  for  if  the  kidney,  Avhicli  may  bo  found  on  the 
under  side  of  one  end  of  the  loin,  be  deeply  enveloped 
in  white  and  firm-looking  fat,  the  meat  will  certainly 
be  good;  and  the  same  appearance  will  enable  you  to 
judge  if  it  has  been  recently  killed.  The  kidney  is  the 
part  which  changes  the  first;  and  then  the  suet  around 
it  becomes  soft,  and  the  meat  flabby  and  spotted. 

Bacon,  like  pork,  should  have  a thin  rind;  the  fat 
should  be  firm,  and  inclined  to  a reddish  color;  and  the 
lean  should  firmly  adhei’e  to  the  bone,  and  have  no  yel- 
low streak  in  it.  When  you  are  purchasing  a ham, 
have  a knife  stuck  into  it  to  the  bone,  which,  if  the  ham 
be  well  cured,  may  be  drawn  out  again  without  having 
any  of  the  meat  adhering  to  it,  and  without  your  per- 
ceiving any  disagreeable  smell.  A short  ham  is 
reckoned  the  best. 


XMli  iitiiit  f f VUuK BOOK, 


Ik 


HOW  TO  CHOOSE  PISH. 

Turbot,  which  is  in  season  the  greater  part  of  the 
year,  should  have  the  underside  of  a yellowish  white, 
for  when  it  is  very  transparent,  blue,  or  thin,  it  is  not 
good;  the  whole  fish  should  be  thick  and  firm. 

Salmon  should  have  a fine  red  flesh  and  gills;  the 
scales  should  be  bright,  and  the  whole  fish  firm.  Many 
persons  think  that  salmon  is  improved  by  keeping  a day 
or  two. 

Cod  should  be  judged  by  the  redness  of  the  gills,  the 
whiteness,  stiffness,  and  firmness  of  the  flesh,  and  the 
clear  freshness  of  the  eyes;  these  are  the  infallible  proofs 
of  its  being  good.  The  whole  fish  should  be  thick  and 
firm. 

WniTE-FisH  may  be  had  good  almost  throughout  the 
year;  but  the  time  in  which  they  are  in  their  prime  is 
early  in  the  year.  The  white-fish  is  light  and  delicate, 
and  in  choosing  it  you  must  examine  whether  the  fins 
and  flesh  be  firm. 

Fresh- Water  Fish  may  be  chosen  by  similar  obser- 
vations respecting  the  firmness  of  the  flesh,  and  the  clear 
appearance  of  the  eyes,  as  salt-water  fish. 

In  a Lobster  lately  caught,  you  may  put  the  claws 
in  motion  by  pressing  the  eyes;  but  when  it  has  been 
long  caught  the  muscular  action  is  not  excited.  The 
freshness  of  boiled  lobsters  may  be  determined  by  the 
elasticity  of  the  tail,  which  is  flaccid  when  they  have 
lost  any  of  their  wholesomeness.  Their  goodness,  in- 
dependent of  freshness,  is  determined  by  their  weight 

Crabs,  too,  must  be  judged  of  by  their  weight,  for 
when  they  prove  light  the  flesh  is  generally  found  to  bo 
wasted  and  watery.  If  in  perfection,  the  joints  of  the 
legs  will  be  stiff,  and  the  body  will  have  an  agreeable 
smell.  The  eyes,  by  a dull  appearance,  betray  that 
the  crab  has  been  long  caught. 


14 


TEE  EVERYDAY  COOKBOOK. 


HOW  TO  CHOOSE  POULTRY. 

In  tne  choice  of  poultry  the  age  of  the  bird  is  the 
chief  point  to  which  you  should  attend. 

A young  turkey  has  a smooth  black  leg;  in  an  old 
one  the  leg  rough  and  reddish.  If  the  bird  be  fresh 
killed  the  eyes  will  be  full  and  fresh,  and  the  feet 
moist. 

Fowls,  when  they  are  young,  the  combs  and  the  legs 
will  be  smooth,  and  rough  when  they  are  old. 

In  geese,  when  they  are  young,  the  bills  and  the  feet 
are  yellow  and  have  a few  hairs  upon  them,  but  they 
are  red  if  the  bird  be  old.  The  feet  of  a goose  are  pli- 
able when  the  bird  is  fresh  killed,  and  dry  and  stijff 
when  it  has  been  killed  some  time.  Geese  are  called 
green  till  they  are  two  or  three  months  old. 

Ducks  should  be  chosen  by  their  feet,  which  should 
be  supple;  and  they  should  also  have  a plump  and  hard 
breast.  The  feet  of  a tame  duck  are  yellowish,  those 
of  a wild  one,  reddish. 

Pigeons  should  always  be  eaten  while  they  are  fresh; 
wlien  they  look  flabby  and  discolored  about  the  under 
part,  they  have  been  kept  too  long.  The  feet,  like 
those  of  poultry,  show  the  age  of  the  bird;  when  they 
are  supple,  it  is  young;  when  stiff,  it  is  old.  Tame 
pigeons  are  largc'T  than  wild  ones. 

HOW  TO  CHOOSE  GAME. 

Venison,  when  young,  will  have  the  fat  clear  and 
bright,  and  this  ought  also  to  be  of  a considerable 
thickness.  When  you  do  not  wish  to  have  it  in  a very 
high  state,  a knife  plunged  into  either  haunch  or  the 
shoulder,  and  drawn  out,  will  by  the  smell  enable  you 
to  judge  if  the  venison  is  sufficiently  fresh. 

With  regard  to  venison,  which,  as  it  is  not  an  every- 
day article  of  diet,  it  may  be  convenient  to  keep  for 


THE  EVERYDAY  COOK-BOOK. 


15 


grome  time  after  it  has  begun  to  get  high  or  tainted;  it 
is  useful  to  know  that  the  animal  putrefaction  is  checked 
by  fresh  burnt  charcoal;  by  means  of  which,  therefore, 
the  venison  may  be  prevented  from  getting  worse, 
although  it  cannot  be  restored  to  its  original  freshness. 
The  meat  should  be  placed  in  a hollow  dish,  and  the 
charcoal  powder  strewed  over  it  until  it  covers  the  joint 
to  the  thickness  of  half  an  inch. 

Hares  and  rabbits,  when  the  ears  are  dry  and  tough, 
the  haunch  thick,  and  the  claws  blunt  and  rugged, 
they  are  old.  Smooth  and  sharp  claws,  ears  that  read- 
ily tear,  and  a narrow  cleft  in  the  lip,  are  the  marks  of 
a young  hare.  Hares  may  be  kept  for  some  time  after 
they  have  been  killed;  indeed,  many  people  think  they 
are  not  fit  for  the  table  until  the  inside  begins  to  turn 
a little.  Care,  however,  should  be  taken  to  prevent 
the  inside  from  becoming  musty,  which  would  spoil 
the  flavor  of  the  stuffing. 

Partridges  have  yellow  legs  and  a dark  colored  bill 
when  young.  They  are  not  in  season  till  after  the  first 
of  September, 

HOW  TO  CHOOSE  EGGS. 

In  putting  the  hand  round  the  egg,  and  presenting  to 
the  light,  the  end  which  is  not  covered,  it  should  be 
transparent.  If  you  can  detect  some  tiny  spots,  it  is 
not  newly  laid,  but  may  be  very  good  for  all  ordinary 
purposes  except  boiling  soft.  If  you  see  a large  spot 
near  the  shell,  it  is  bad,  and  should  not  be  used  on  any 
account.  The  white  of  a newly-laid  egg  boiled  soft  is 
like  milk;  and  that  of  an  old  egg,  compact,  tough,  and 
difficult  to  digest.  A cook  ought  not  to  give  eggs  two 
or  three  days  old  to  people  who  really  care  for  fresh 
eggs,  under  the  delusion  that  they  will  not  find  any  dif- 
ference; for  an  amateur  will  find  it  out  in  a moment, 
not  only  by  the  appearance,  but  also  by  the  taste. 


5 


THE  EVERYDAY  COOK-BOOK. 


CARVING. 

The  seat  for  the  carver  should  be  somewhat  elevated 
above  the  other  chairs;  it  is  extremely  ungraceful  to 
carve  standing,  and  it  is  rarely  done  by  any  person 
accustomed  to  the  business.  Carving  depends  more  on 
skill  than  on  strength.  We  have  seen  very  small 
women  carve  admirably  sitting  down;  and  very  tall  men 
who  knew  not  how  to  cut  a piece  of  beefsteak  without 
rising  on  their  feet  to  do  it. 

The  carving-knife  should  be  very  sharp,  and  not 
heavy;  and  it-should  be  held  firmly  in  the  hand;  also 
the  dish  should  not  be  too  far  from  the  carver.  It  is 
customary  to  help  the  fish  with  a fish-trowel,  and  not 
with  a knife.  The  middle  part  of  a fish  is  generally 
considered  the  best.  In  helping  it,  avoid  breaking  the 
flakes,  as  that  will  give  it  a mangled  appearance. 

In  carving  ribs  or  sirloin  of  beef  begin  by  cutting 
thin  slices  off  the  side  next  to  you.  Afterwards  you 
may  cut  from  the  tenderloin,  or  cross-part  near  the 
lower  end.  Do  not  send  any  one  the  outside  piece,  un- 
less you  know  they  particularly  wish  it. 

In  helping  beefeteak  put  none  of  the  bone  on  the 
f late.  In  cutting  a round  of  corned  beef  begin  at  the 
top;  but  lay  aside  the  first  cut  or  outside  piece,  and  send 
it  to  no  one,  as  it  is  always  dry  and  hard.  In  a round 
of  heef  a-la  inode  the  outside  is  frequently  preferred. 

A leg  of  mutton  begin  across  the  middle,  cutting  the 
slices  quite  down  to  the  bone.  The  same  with  a leg  of 
pork  or  a ham.  The  latter  should  be  cut  in  very  thin 
slices,  as  its  flavor  is  spoiled  when  cut  thick. 

To  taste  well,  tongue  should  be  cut  crossways  in* 
round  slices.  Cutting  it  lengthwise  (though  the  prac- 
tice at  many  tables)  injures  the  flavor.  The  middle 
part  of  the  tongue  is  the  best.  Do  not  help  anyone  to 
a }iiece  of  the  root;  that,  l)eing  by  no  means  a favored 
part,  is  generally  left  in  the  disbr 


TSE  EVERYDAY  CO  OK- B DOE. 


i't 

In  carving  a fore-quarter  of  lamb  first  separa^*?  f.he 
shoulder  part  from  the  breast  and  ribs  hy  r^assing 
the  knife  under,  and  then  divide  the  ribs.  If  the  lamb 
s large,  have  another  dish  brough  t to  put  the  shoulder  in. 

For  a loin  of  veal  begin  near  the  smallest  end,  and 
separate  the  ribs;  helping  a part  of  the  kidney  (as  far  as 
it  will  go)  with  each  piece.  Carve  a loin  of  pork  or 
mutton  in  the  same  manner. 

In  carving  a fillet  of  veal  begin  at  the  toi3.  Many 
persons  prefer  the  first  cut  or  outside  pieoa  Help  a 
portion  of  the  stuffing  with  each  slice. 

In  a breast  of  veal  there  are  two  parts  v^ry  different 
in  quality,  the  ribs  and  the  brisket.  You  will  easily 
perceive  the  division;  enter  your  knifu  at  it  and  cut 
through,  which  will  separate  the  two  jj^^^rts.  Ask  the 
person  you  are  going  to  help  whether  fbey  prefer  a rib 
or  a piece  of  the  brisket. 

For  a haunch  of  venison  first  make  a,  deep  incission  by 
passing  your  knife  all  along  the  side,  cutting  quite  down 
to  the  bone.  This  is  to  let  out  the  gravy.  Then  turn 
the  broad  end  of  the  haunch  toward  you,  and  cut  it  as 
deep  as  you  can  in  thin  slices,  allowing  some  of  the  fat 
to  each  person. 

For  a saddle  of  venison,  or  of  mutton,  cut  from  the 
tail  to  the  other  end  on  each  side  of  the  backbone,  mak- 
ing very  thin  slices,  and  sending  the  fat  with  each. 
Venison  and  roast  mutton  chill  very  soon.  Currant 
jelly  IS  an  indispensable  appendage  to  venison,  and  to 
toast  mutton,  and  to  ducks. 

A young  pig  is  most  generally  divided  before  it  comes 
to  table,  in  which  case  it  is  not  customary  to  send  in  the 
licad,  as  to  many  persons  it  is  a revolting  spectacle  after 
it  is  cut  off.  When  served  up  whole,  first  separate  the 
head  from  the  shoulders,  then  cut  off  the  limbs,  and 
then  divide  the  ribs.  Help  some  of  the  stuffing  with 
each  piece. 


fBE  EVEEtDAt  COOK-BOOBt. 


To  carve  a fowl,  begin  by  sticking  yarn  forkcin  the 
pii>i()ii,  and  draw  it  towards  the  leg;  and  then  passing 
your  knife  underneath  take  off  the  wing  at  the  joint. 
Next,  slip  your  knife  between  the  leg  and  the  body,  to 
cut  through  the  joint;  and  with  the  fork  turn  the  leg 
back,  and  the  joint  will  give  away.  Then  take  off  the 
other  wing  and  leg.  If  the  fowl  has  been  trussed  (as  it 
ought  to  be)  with  the  liver  and  gizzard,  help  the  liver 
with  one  wing,  and  the  gizzard  with  the  other.  The 
liver-wing  is  considered  the  best.  After  the  limbs  are 
taken  off  enter  your  knife  into  the  top  of  the  breast,  and 
cut  under  the  merry-thought,  so  as  to  loosen  it,  lifting 
it  with  your  fork.  Afterwards  cut  slices  from  both 
sides  of  the  breast.  Next  take  off  the  collar-bones, 
which  lie  on  each  side  of  the  merry-thought,  and  then 
separate  the  side-bones  from  the  back.  The  breast  and 
wings  are  considered  the  most  delicate  part  of  the  fowl; 
the  back,  as  the  least  desirable,  is  left  on  the  dish.  Some 
j)ersons,  in  carving  a fowd,  find  it  more  convenient  to 
take  it  on  a plate,  and  as  they  separate  it  return  each 
part  to  the  dish,  but  this  is  not  the  usual  way. 

A turkey  is  carved  in  the  same  manner  as  a fowl; 
except  that  the  legs  and  wings,  being  larger,  are  sep- 
arated at  the  lower  joint.  The  lower  part  of  the  leg  (or 
drum  stick,  as  it  is  called),  being  hard,  tough,  and 
stringy,  is  never  helped  to  any  one,  but  allowed  to 
remain  in  the  dish.  First  cut  off  the  wing,  leg,  and 
breast  from  one  side;  then  turn  the  turkey  over  and  cut 
them  off*  from  the  other. 

To  carve  a goose,  separate  the  leg  from  the  body,  by 
putting  the  fork  into  the  small  end  of  the  limb;  pressing 
it  close  to  the  body,  and  then  passing  the  knife  under, 
and  turning  the  leg  back,  as  you  cut  through  the  joint. 
To  take  off  the  wing,  put  your  fork  into  the  small  end 
of  the  pinion,  and  press  it  closely  to  the  body;  then  slip 
the  knife  under,  and  separate  the  joint.  Next  cut  under 


THB  EVERYDAY  GOOKBOOE. 


i9 

th<3  merry-thought,  and  take  it  off;  and  then  cut  slices 
fro/n  the  breast.  Then  turn  the  goose,  and  dismember 
the  other  side.  Take  off  the  upper  side-bones  that  are 
next  to  the  wings,  and  then  the  lower  side-bones.  The 
breast  and  legs  of  a goose  afford  the  finest  pieces.  If  a 
goose  is  old  there  is  no  fowl  so  tough,  and,  if  difficult 
to  carve,  it  will  be  still  more  difficult  to  eat. 

Partridges,  pheasants,  grouse;  etc.,  are  carved  in  the 
same  manner  as  fowls.  Quail,  woodcock,  and  snipe  are 
merely  split  down  the  back;  so.  also  are  pigeons,  giving 
a half  to  each  person. 

Jn  helping  any  one  to  gravy,  or  melted  butter,  do  not 
pour  it  over  their  meat,  fowl  or  fish,  but  put  it  to  one 
side  on  a vacant  part  of  the  plate,  that  they  may  use 
just  as  much  as  they  like.  In  filling  a plate  never  heap 
one  thing  on  another. 

In  helping  vegetables,  do  not  plunge  the  spoon  down 
to  the  bottom  of  the  dish,  in  case  they  should  not  have 
btttk^n  perfectly  well  drained,  and  the  water  should  have 
seJIled  there. 

By  observing  carefully  how  it  is  done  you  may 
acquire  a knowledge  of  joints,  and  of  the  process  of 
carving,  which  a little  daily  practice  will  soon  convert 
inti)  dexterity.  If  a young  lady  is  ignorant  of  this 
useful  art,  it  will  be  well  for  her  to  take  lessons  of  her 
father,  or  her  brother,  and  a married  lady  can  easily 
learn  from  her  husband.  Domestics  who  wait  at  table 
may  soon,  from  looking  on  daily,  become  so  expert  that, 
when  necessary;  they  can  take  a dish  to  the  side-table 
and  carve  it  perfectly  well. 

At  a dinner-party,  if  the  hostess  is  quite  young,  she  is 
frequently  glad  to  be  relieved  of  the  trouble  of  carving 
by  the  gentleman  who  sits  nearest  to  her;  but  if  she  is 
familiar  with  the  business,  she  usually  prefer  doing  it 
herself. 


LLLUSTn^TWNb, 


a. 


The  following  Engraving  represents  the  method  of  dividing  an  Ox 
for  the  table,  in  England,  and  in  most  of  the  southern  cities  of  the 
United  States.  The  method  in  Boston  varies  considerably,  dividing 
into  smaller  pieces,  and  this  plan  we  pursue  in  the  following  tables, 
but  the  manner  of  cooking  each  is  nearly  the  same. 


1.  Sirloin. 

2.  Rump. 

3.  Edge  Bone. 

4.  Buttock. 

5.  Mouse  Buttock. 

6.  Veiny  Piece. 

7.  Thick  Flank. 

8.  Thin  Flank. 

% 


10  Fore  rib:  Five  ribs. 

11.  Middle  rib:  Four  ribs. 

12.  Chuck:  Three  ribs. 

13.  Shoulder  or  leg. 

14.  Brisket. 

15.  Clod 

16.  Neck,  or 

17.  Shin 
2li^ 


ILLUSTRATIONS. 


b. 


COD’S  HEAD  AND  SHOULDERS 


Introduce  the  fish-slice  at  1,  and  cut  quite  through  the  back  as  far 
as  3,  then  help  piece  from  between  3 and  4,  and  with  each  slice  give 
a portion  of  the  sound,  which  lines  the  under  side  of  the  back 
bone.  It  is  thin,  and  of  a darker  color  than  the  other  part  of  the  fish, 
and  is  esteemed  a delicacy. 

Some  persons  are  partial  to  the  tongue  and  palate,  for  which  you 
must  insert  a spoon  into  the  mouth.  The  jelly  part  is  about  the 
jaw,  the  firm  part  within  the  head,  on  which  are  some  other  delicate 
pickings;  the  finest  portions  may  be  found  about  the  shoulders. 


TURBOT. 


The  under  side  of  this  fish  is  most  esteemed,  and  is  placed  up- 
permost on  the  dish.  The  fish-slice  must  be  introduced  at  1,  and  an 
incision  made  as  far  as  2;  then  cut  from  the  middle,  which  is  tho 
primest  part.  After  helping  the  whole  of  that  side,  the  upper  part 
must  be  attacked,  and  as  it  is  difficult  to  divide  the  back  bone,  raise 
it  Math  the  fork,  while  you  seperate  a portion  with  thefish-slicej  this 
part  is  more  solid,  and  is  preferred  by  some,  though  it  is  less  delicate 
than  the  under  side.  The  fins  are  esteemed  a nicety  and  should  be 
attended  to  accordin^y. 


BRILL,  SOLES,  PLAICE. 

and  all  fish  in  general,  may  be  served  in  the  same  manner  as  a Turbot. 


tLWSTRATlONB. 


0* 


SECTION  II. 

JOINTS. 

In  helping  the  more  fleshy  joints,  such  as  a Sirloin  of  Beef,  Leg  of 
Mutton,  Fillet  of  Veal,  cut  thin  smooth  slices  and  let  the  knife  pass 
through  to  the  bones  of  Mutton  and  Beef. 

In  some  bailed  joints,  round  an  aitch-bone  of  beef  for  instance 
the  water  renders  the  outsides  vapid,  and  of  course  unfit  to  be  eaten; 
you  will  therefore  be  particular  to  cut  off  and  lay  aside  a thick  slice 
Irom  the  top,  before  you  begin  to  serve. 


(!ut  into  the  bone  at  the  line  1,  and  help  thin  slices  of  lean  from 
each  side  of  the  incision;  the  prime  part  of  the  fat  lies  at  the  outer 
edge  at  2. 

Should  more  meat  be  required  than  can  be  got  from  that  part  cut 
on  either  side  of  the  line  3,  which  represents  the  blade  bone,  and 
some  good  and  delicate  slices  may  be  procured.  By  cutting  hori- 
zoFitally  from  the  under  side,  many  “nice  bits”  will  be  obtained. 


LEG  OF  MUTTON. 

The  finest  part  is  situated  in  the  center,  at  1,  between  the  knuckle  ^ 
and  farther  end;  insert  the  knife  there,  and  cut  thin,  deep  slices  each 
way,  as  far  in  as  2.  The  outside  rarely  being  very  fat,  some  neat 
cuts  may  be  obtained  off  the  broad  end,  at  3.  The  knuckle  of  a tine 
leg  is  tender,  though  dry,  and  many  prefer  it,  al  hough  the  other  is 
the  most  juicy.  There  are  some  good  cuts  on  the  broad  e:  d of  the 
back  of  the  leg,  from  which  slices  may  b(}  ])i  ocured  lengthwise. 

The  cramp  bone  is  by  some  esteemed  a delicacy  ; to  get  it  out,  cut 
down  to  the  thighbone,  at  4,  and  pass  the  knife  under  it  in  a semi- 
circular course,  to  5. 


ILLVSTBATIONS. 


I 


LOIN  OF  MUTTON. 

As  the  bones  of  this  joint  are  divided,  it  is  very  easily  managed. 
Begin  at  the  narrow  end  and  take  of  the  chops;  when  the  joints  are 
cut  through,  some  slices  of  meat  may  be  obtained  between  the  bones. 


FORE  QUARTER  OF  LAMB. 

I irst  divide  the  shoulder  from  the  scoven,  which  consists  of  the 
breast  and  ribs,  by  passing  the  knife  under  the  knuckle,  in  the  direc- 
tion of  1,  2,  3,  and  cutting  so  as  to  leave  a fair  portion  of  meat  on 
the  ribs;  lay  it  on  a separate  dish,  and  squeeze  the  juice  of  half  a 
Seville  orange  over  the  other  part,  which,  after  being  sprinkled 
with  pepper  and  salt,  should  be  divided  in  the  line  3-4.  This  will 
separate  the  ribs  from  the  gristly  part,  and  you  may  help  from 
eitl  ler,  as  may  be  chosen,  cutting  as  directed  by  the  lines  5,  6. 

LOIN  OF  LAMB 

ma/f  be  helped  similar  to  a loin  of  mutton.  (See  loin  of  mutton.) 
This,  and  the  two  foregoing,  being  small  joints,  should  be  helped 
sparingly,  as  there  is  very  little  meat  on  them,  especially  when 
first  in  season. 


aitch  bone  of  beef. 

Cut  off  and  lay  aside  a thick  slice  from  the  entire  surface,  as 
marked  1-2,  then  help.  There  are  two  sorts  of  fat  to  this  joint,  and, 
as  tastes  differ,  it  is  necessary  to  learn  which  is  preferred.  The 
solid  fat  will  be  found  at  3,  and  must  be  cut  horizontally;  the  softer 
which  resembles  marrow,  at  the  back  of  the  bone  below  4. 

A silver  skewer  should  be  substituted  for  the  one  which  keeps 
the  meat  properly  together  while  boiling,  and  it  may  be  withdrawn 
when  you  cut  down  to  it. 


ILLUSTRATIONS, 


SIRLOIN  OF  BEEF. 

There  are  two  modes  of  helping  this  joint.  The  better  way  is  by 
.'^ai  ving  long  thin  slices;  the  other  way  is  by  cutting  it  across,  which 
however,  spoils  it.  There  will  also  be  found  some  delicate  fat,  part 
of  which  should  be  given  with  each  piece. 


RIBS  OF  BEEF 

ma;j^  be  carved  similar  to  the  Sirloin,  always  commencing  at  the 
thin  end  of  the  joint,  and  cutting  long  slices  so  as  to  give  fat  and 
lean  together. 


A TONGUE. 

Cut  clearly  through  the  middle,  at  the  line  1,  and  take  thin  slices 
from  each  side.  The  fat  is  situated  underneath,  at  the  root  of  th© 
tongue. 


Cut  thin  slices  from  1 to  2,  and  let  the  knife  penetrate  to  the  bone. 
At  the  thick  part  of  the  neck  end,  3,  the  throat  sweetbread  is  situ^ 
ated;  carve  slices  from  3 to  4,  and  help  with  the  other  part.  Should 
the  eye  he  asked  for  it  must  be  extracted  with  the  point  of  the 
knife,  and  a portion  given.  The  palate,  esteemed  a delicacy,  is 
situatecl  under  the  head,  and  some  fine  lean  may  be  found  by  remov- 
ing the  jaw  bone,  portions  of  each  of  these  should  be  helped  round. 


ILLUSTBATIONS.  /. 

A BREAST  OP  VEAL 

is  composed  of  the  ribs  and  brisket,  which  must  be  separated  by 
cu  ling  through  the  line  1-2;  the  latter  is  the  thickest  and  has  gris- 
tles. Divide  each  portion  into  convenient  pieces,  and  proceed  to 
he(p. 


FILLET  OF  VEAL 

re;  &mbles  a round  of  beef,  and  should  be  carved  similar  to  it,  in 
thi  a and  very  smooth  slices,  of  the  top;  cut  deep  into  the  flap, 
be  ween  1 and  2,  for  the  stuffing,  and  help  a portion  of  it  to  each 
person. 

Iflices  of  lemon  are  always  served  with  this  dish. 

HAND  OP  PORK. 

0 it  thin  slices  from  this  delicate  joint,  either  across  near  the 
knuckle,  or  from  the  blade  bone,  as  directed  for  a shoulder  of 
mutton.  This  forms  a nice  dish  for  a tete-a-tete  dinner;  there  is  not 
euificient  for  a third  person. 


ROAST  PIG^ 

As  this  is  usually  divided  as  above,  before  sent  to  table,  little 
remains  to  be  carved.  First  separate  a shoulder  from  the  body, 
and  then  the  leg;  divide  the  ribs  into  convenient  portions,  and  send 
round  with  a sufficiency  of  the  stuffing  and  gravy.  Msny  prefer 
the  neck  and  between  the  shoulders,  although  the  ribs  We  con- 
sidered the  finest  part;  but  as  this  all  depends  on  taste,  the  question 
should  be  put.  The  ear  is  reckoned  a delicacy. 

Should  the  head  not  be  divided,  it  must  be  done,  and  the  brains 
taken  out,  and  mixed  with  the  gravy  and  stuffing. 

A LOIN  Of  PORK 

is  cut  up  in  the  same  manner  as  a loin  of  Mutton.  See  page  xii, 


ILLUSTRATIONS. 


The  usual  mode  of  carving  this  joint,  is  by  long  delicate  slices, 
through  the  thick  fat,  in  the  direction  1-2,  laying  open  the  bone  at 
each  cut,  which  brings  you  to  the  prime  part  at  once.  A mere 
saving  way  is  to  commence  at  the  knuckle  and  proceed  onwards 

Some  persons  take  out  a round  piece  at  3,  and  enlarge  the  hole, 
by  cutting  thin  circular  slices  with  a sharp  knife.  This  keeps  the 
meat  moist,  and  preserves  the  gravy,  but  seldom  looks  handsome. 

SECTION  III. 

POULTRY,  GAME,  ETC. 

The  carving  knife  for  poultry  is  smaller  and  lighter  than  the 
meat  carver;  the  point  is  more  peaked  and  the  handle  longer. 

In  cutting  up  a Turkey,  Goose,  Duck  or  Wild  Fowl,  more  prime 
pieces  may  be  obtained  by  carving  slices  from  pinion  to  pinion, 
without  making  wings;  this  is  an  advantage  when  your  party  is 
large,  as  it  makes  the  bird  go  farther. 


A FOWL. 

It  will  be  more  convenient  in  carving  this  to  take  it  on  your  plate, 
and  lay  the  joints,  as  divided,  neatly  on  the  dish.  Fix  your  fork  in 
the  middle  of  the  breast,  and  take  the  wing  off  iii  the  direction  of 
1-2;  divide  the  joint  at  1,  lift  up  the  pinion  with  your  fork,  and  draw 
the  wing  toward  the  leg,  which  will  separate  the  fleshy  part  more 
naturrilly  than  by  die  knife;  cut  between  the  leg  and  body  at  3 to 
the  bone  2,  give  the  blade  a sudden  turn,  and  the  joint  will  break 


ILLUSTRATIONS, 


h. 


if  the  fowl  is  not  old . When  a -imilar  operation  is  performed  on  the 
other  side,  take  otf  the  merry  thought,  by  cutting  into  the  bone  at  4, 
and  turning  it  back,  which  will  detach  it;  next  remove  the  neck 
bones  and  divide  the  br>  ast  from  the  back,  by  cutting  through  the 
whole  of  the  ribs,  close  to  the  breast.  Turn  up  the  back,  press  the 
point  of  the  knife  about  half  way  between  the  neck  and  rump,  and 
on  raising  the  lower  end  it  will  separate  easily.  Turn  the  rump  from 
you,  take  off  the  sidesmen,  and  the  operation  is  complete. 

The  breast  and  wings  are  the  most  delicate  parts,  but  the  leg  is 
more  juicy  in  a young  bird.  Great  care  should  be  taken  to  cut  the 
wings  as  handsome  as  possible. 


A TURKEY. 


The  finest  parts  of  this  bird  are  the  breast  and  wings;  the  latter 
will  bear  some  delicate  slices  being  taken  off.  After  the  fore  quar> 
ters  are  servered,  the  thighs  must  be  divided  from  the  drumsticks, 
which,  being  tough  should  be  reserved  till  last.  In  other  respects, 
a turkey  must  be  dealt  with  exactly  as  recommended  for  a fowl, ex- 
cept that  it  has  no  merrythought. 

Give  a portion  of  the  stuffing  or  forced-meat,  which  is  inside  the 
breasc,  to  each  person. 


A PARTRIDGE 


is  cut  up  in  the  same  manner  as  a fowl,  only,  on  account  of  the  small- 
ness of  the  bird,  the  merrythought  is  seldom  divided  from  the  breast. 
The  wings,  breast,  and  met  ry thought  are  the  finest  parts  of  it,  but 
the  wing  is  considered  the  best,  and  the  tip  of  it  is  reckoned  the 
most  delicious  morsel  of  the  whole, 


WOODCOCKS,  GROUSE,  ETC. 


are  carved  similar  to  a fowl,  if  not  too  small,  when  they  may  be 
cut  in  quarters  and  helped. 

Snipes,  being  smaller,  should  be  divided  in  halves. 


PIGEONS. 


The  usual  way  of  carving  these  birds  is  to  insert  the  knife  at  1, 
and  cut  to  2 and  3,  when  each  portion  may  be  divided  into  two 
pieces  and  helped;  sometimes  they  are  cut  in  halves,  either  across 
or  down  the  middle,  but  as  the  lower  part  is  thought  the  b^st,  the 
first  mode  is  thought  the  fairest. 


20 


TEE  EVERYDAY  COOK-BOOK. 


SOUPS. 


GENERAL  REMARKS. 

Be  careful  to  proportion  the  quantity  of  water  to  that 
of  the  meat.  Somewhat  less  than  a quart  of  water  to  a 
pound  of  meat  is  a good  rule  for  common  soups.  Rich 
soups,  intended  for  company,  may  have  a still  smaller 
allowance  of  water. 

Soup  should  always  be  made  entirely  of  fresh  meat 
that  has  not  been  previously  cooked.  An  exception  to 
this  rule  may  sometimes  be  made  in  favor  of  the  remains 
of  a piece  of  roast  beef  that  has  been  very  much  under- 
done in  roasting.  This  may  be  added  to  a good  piece 
of  raw  meat.  Cold  ham,  also  may  be  occasionally  put 
into  white  soups. 

Soup,  however,  that  has  been  originally  made  of  raw 
meat  entirely  is  frequently  better  the  second  clay  than 
the  first,  provided  it  is  reboiled  only  a very  short  time,, 
and  that  no  additional  water  is  added  to  it. 

Unless  it  has  been  allowed  to  boil  too  hard,  so  as  to 
exhaust  the  water;  the  soup-pot  will  not  require  re- 
plenishing. When  it  is  found  absolutely  necessary  to 
do  so,  the  additional  water  must  be  boiling-hot  when 
poured  in;  if  luke-warm  or  cold,  it  will  entirely  spoil 
the  soup. 

Every  particle  of  fat  should  be  carefully  skimmed 
from  the  surface.  Greasy  soup  is  di.'^gusting  and  un- 
wholesome. The  lean  meat  is  much  .better  for  soup. 

Potatoes,  if  boiled  in  the  soup,  are  thought  by  sirme 
to  render  it  unwholesome,  from  the  opinion  that  the 
water  in  which  potatoes  have  been  cooked  is  almost  a 
poison.  As  potatoes  are  a part  of  every  dinner,  it  is 


THE  EVEBYDAY  COOHBOOH  %\ 

very  easy  to  take  a few  out  of  the  pot  in  which  they 
have  been  boiled  by  themselves,  and  cut  them  up  and 
add  them  to  the  soup  just  before  it  goes  to  the  table. 
Remove  all  shreds  of  meat  and  bone. 

The  cook  should  season  the  soup  but  very  slightly 
with  salt  and  pepper.  If  she  puts  in  too  much  it  may 
spoil  it  for  the  taste  of  those  who  are  to  eat  it;  but  if  too 
little  it  is  easy  to  add  more  to  yew  own  plate. 


22 


THE  EYEBYDAY  COOK-BOOK. 


SOUPS. 


STOCK. 

Four  pounds  of  shin  of  beef,  or  four  pounds  of 
knuckle  of  veal,  or  two  pounds  of  each;  any  bones, 
trimmings  of  poultry,  or  fresh  meat,  quarter  pound  of 
lean  bacon  or  ham,  two  ounces  of  butter,  two  large 
onions,  one  stuck  with  cloves;  one  turnip,  three  carrots, 
one  head  of  celery,  three  lumps  of  sugar,  two  ounces  of 
salt,  half  a teaspoon  of  whole  pepper,  one  large  blade 
of  mace,  one  bunch  of  savory  herbs,  four  quarts  and 
half  pint  of  cold  water. 

Cut  up  the  meat  and  bacon,  or  ham,  into  pieces  of 
about  three  inches  square;  rub  the  butter  on  the  bottom 
of  the  stewpan;  put  in  a half  a pint  of  water,  the  meat, 
and  all  the  other  ingredients.  Cover  the  stewpan,  and 
place  it  on  a sharp  fire,  occasionally  stirring  its  contents. 
When  the  bottom  of  the  pan  becomes  covered  with  a 
pale,  jelly-like  substance,  add  the  four  quarts  of  cold 
water,  and  simmer  very  gently  for  five  hours.  As  we 
have  said  before,  do  not  let  it  boil  quickly.  Remove 
every  particle  of  scum  while  it  is  doing,  and  strain,  it 
through  a fine  hair  sieve. 

Time:  five  and  one-half  hours.  Average  cost,  twenty- 
five  cents  per  quart. 

WHITE  STOCK  SOUP, 

Six  pounds  knuckle  of  veal,  half  pound  lean  bacon, 
two  tablespoonfuls  of  butter  rubbed  in  one  of  flour,  two 


THE  EVERYDAY  COOK-BOOK, 


33 


onions,  two  carrots,  two  turnips,  three  cloves  stuck  in  an 
onion,  one  blade  of  mace,  bunch  of  herbs,  six  quarts  of 
water,  pepper  and  salt,  one  cup  of  boiling  milk. 

Cut  up  the  meat  and  crack  the  bones.  Slice  carrots, 
turnips,  and  one  onion,  leaving  that  with  the  cloves 
whole.  Put  on  with  mace,  and  all  the  herbs  except 
the  parsley,  in  two  quarts  of  cold  water.  Bring  to  a 
slow  boil;  take  off  the  scum  as  it  rises,  and  at  the  end 
of  an  hour’s  stewing,  add  the  rest  of  the  cold  water — ' 
one  gallon.  Cover  and  cook  steadily,  always  gently, 
four  hours.  Strain  off  the  liquor,  of  which  there 
should  be  about  five  quarts;  rub  the  vegetables  through 
the  colander,  and  pick  out  bones  and  meat.  Season 
these  highly  and  put,  as  is  your  Saturday  custom,  into 
awide-mbuth  jar  or  a large  bowl.  Add  to  them  three 
quarts  of  stock,  well  salted,  and  when  cold,  keep  on 
ice.  Cool  to-day’s  stock;  remove  the  fat,  season,  put  in 
chopped  parsley,  and  put  over  the  fire.  Heat  in  a 
saucepan  a cup  of  milk,  stir  in  the  floured  butter;  cook 
three  minutes.  When  the  soup  has  simmered  ten  min- 
utes after  the  last  boil,  and  been  carefully  skimmed, 
pour  into  the  tureen,  and  stir  in  the  hot,  thickened 
milk. 

SHIN  OP  BEEP  SOUP. 

Get  a shin-bone  of  beef  weighing  four  or  five  pounds; 
let  the  butcher  saw  it  in  pieces  about  two  inches  long, 
that  the  marrow  may  become  the  better  incorporated 
with  the  soup,  and  so  give  it  greater  richness. 

Wash  the  meat  in  cold  water;  mix  together  of  salt 
and  pepper  each  a tablespoonful,  rub  this  well  into  the 
meat,  then  put  into  a soup  pot;  put  to  it  as  many  quarts 
of  water  as  there  are  pounds  of  meat,  and  set  it  over  a 
moderate  fire,  until  it  comes  to  a boil,  then  take  off 
whatever  scum  may  have  risen,  after  which  cover  it 
close  and  set  it  where  it  will  boil  very  gently  for  two 


<4  THE  EVERYDAY  COOK-BOOK. 

hours  longer,  then  skim  it  again,  and  add  to  it  the 
proper  vegetables,  which  are  these — one  large  carrot 
grated,  one  large  turnip  cut  in  slices  (the  yellow  or  ruta 
baga  is  best),  one  leek  cut  in  slices,  one  bunch  of  pars- 
ley cut  small,  six  small  potatoes  peeled  and  cut  in  half, 
and  a teacupful  of  pearl  barley,  well  washed;  then 
cover  it  and  let  it  boil  gently  for  one  hour,  at  which 
time  add  another  tablespoonful  of  salt  and  a thickening 
made  of  a tablespoonful  of  wheat  flour  and  a gill  of 
water;  stir  it  in  by  the  spoonful;  cover  it  for  fifteen 
minutes  and  it  is  done. 

Three  hours  and  a half  is  required  to  make  this  soup; 
it  is  the  best  for  cold  weather.  Should  any  remain 
over  the  first  day,  it  may  be  heated  with  the  addition 
of  a little  boiling  water,  and  served  again. 

Take  the  me>it  from  the  soup,  and  if  it  be  served 
with  it,  take  out  the  bones,  and  lay^^it  closely  and  neatly 
on  a dish,  and  garnish  with  sprigs  of  parsley;  serve 
made  mustard  and  catsup  with  it.  It  is  very  nice 
pressed  and  eaten  with  mustard  and  vinegar  or  catsup. 

MUTTON  SOUP  WITH  TAPIOCA. 

Three  pounds  perfectly  lean  mutton.  The  scrag 
makes  good  soup  and  costs  little.  Two  or  three  pounds 
of  bones,  well  pounded;  one  onion,  two  turnips,  two 
carrots,  two  stalks  of  celery,  a few  sprigs  of  parsley; 
if  you  have  any  tomatoes  left  from  yesterday,  add 
them;  four  tablespoonfuls  of  pearl  or  granulated  tap- 
ioca (not  heaping  spoonfuls),  four  quarts  of  water. 

Put  on  the  meat,  cut  in  small  pieces,  with  the  bones, 
in  two  quarts  of  cold  water.  Heat  very  slowly  and 
when  it  boils,  pour  in  two  quarts  of  hot  water  fi’om 
the  kettle.  Chop  the  vegetables,  cover  with  cold 
water.  So  soon  as  they  begin  to  simmer,  throw 
off  the  first  water,  replenishing  Avith  hot,  and 
stew  until  they  are  boiled  to  pieces.  The  meat  should 


THE  EVERYDAY  COOKBOOK.  25 

cook  steadily,  never  fast,  five  hours,  keeping  the  pot- 
lid  on.  Strain  into  a great  bowl;  let  it  cool  to  throw 
the  fat  to  the  surface;  skim  and  return  to  the  fire. 
Season  with  pepper  and  salt,  boil  up,  take  off  the  seumt 
add  the  vegetables  with  their  liquor.  Heat  together 
ten  minutes,  strain  again,  and  bring  to  a slow  boil  be- 
fore the  tapioca  goes  in.  This  should  have  been  soaked 
for  one  hour  in  cold  water,  then  cooked  in  the  same 
within  another  vessel  of  boiling  water  until  each  grain 
is  clear.  It  is  necessary  to  stir  up  often  from  the  bot- 
tom while  cooking.  Stir  gradually  into  the  soup 
until  the  tapioca  is  dissolved. 

Send  around  grated  cheese  with  this  soup. 

VEAL  SOUP. 

To  about  three  pounds  of  a joint  of  veal,  which  must 
be  well  broken  up,  put  four  quarts  of  water  and  set  it 
over  to  boil.  Prepare  one-fourth  pound  of  macaroni  by 
boiling  it  by  itself,  with  sufficient  water  to  cover  it;  add 
a little  butter  to  the  macaroni  when  it  is  tender,  strain 
the  soup  and  season  to  taste  with  salt  and  pepper,  then 
add  the  macaroni  in  the  water  in  which  it  is  boiled. 
The  addition  of  a pint  of  rich  milk  or  cream  and  celery 
flavor  is  relished  by  many, 

OX-TAIL  SOUP. 

Take  two  ox  tails  and  two  whole  onions,  two  carrots, 
a small  turnip,  two  tablespoonfuls  of  flour,  and  a little 
white  pepper,  add  a gallon  of  water,  let  all  boil  for  two 
hours;  then  take  out  the  tails  and  cut  the  meat  into 
small  pieces,  return  the  bones  to  the  pot,  for  a short 
time,  boil  for  another  hour,  then  strain  the  soup,  and 
rinse  two  spoonfuls  of  arrowroot  to  add  to  it  with  the 
meat  cut  from  the  bones,  and  let  it  boil  for  a quarter 
of  an  hour. 


TEE  EVERYDAY  COOK-BOOK. 


VEGETABLE  SOUP. 

Two  pounds  of  coarse,  lean  beef,  cut  into  strips,  two 
pounds  of  knuckle  of  veal  chopped  to  pieces,  two  pounds 
of  nautton  bones,  and  the  bones  left  from  your  cold  veal 
cracked  to  splinters,  pound  of  lean  ham,  four  large  car- 
rots, two  turnips,  two  onions,  bunch  of  herbs,  three 
tablespoonfuls  of  butter,  two  of  flour,  one  tablespoon- 
ful of  sugar,  salt  and  pepper,  seven  quarts  of  water. 

Put  on  meat,  bones,  herbs  and-  water,  and  cook 
slowly  five  hours.  Strain  the  soup,  of  which  there 
should  be  five  quarts.  Season  meat  and  bones,  and  put 
into  the  stock-pot  with  three  quarts  of  liquor.  Save 
this  for  days  to  come.  While  the  soup  for  to-day  is 
cooling  that  you  may  take  off  the  fat,  put  the  butter 
into  a frying  pan  with  sliced  carrots,  turnips  and  onions 
and  fry  to  a light  brown.  Now,  add  a pint  of  the 
skimmed  stock,  and  stew  the  vegetables  tender,  stir  in 
the  flour  wet  with  water,  and  put  all,  with  your  cooled 
stock,  over  the  fire  in  the  soup-kettle.  Season  with 
sugar,  Cayenne  and  salt,  boil  five  minutes,  rub  through 
a colander,  then  a soup-sieve,  heat  almost  to  boiling, 
and  serve. 

MACAEONI  SOUP. 

To  a rich  beef  or  other  soup,  in  which  there  is  no 
seasoning  other  than  pepper  or  salt,  take  half  a pound 
of  small  pipe  macaroni,  boil  it  in  clear  water  until  it  is 
tender;  then  drain  it  and  cut  it  in  pieces  of  an  inch  in 
length,  boil  it  for  fifteen  minutes  in  the  soup  and  serve. 

VERMICELLI  SOUP. 

Swell  quarter  of  a pound  of  vermicelli  in  a quart  of 
warm  water,  then  add  it  to  a good  beef,  veal,  lamb  or 
chicken  soup  or  broth  with  quarter  of  a pound  of  sweet 
butter;  let  the  soup  boil  for  fifteen  minutes  after  it 
is  added. 


TEE  EVERYDAY  COOK-BOOK. 

CHICKEN  CREAM  SOUP. 

Boil  an  old  fowl,  with  an  onion,  in  four  quarts  of  cold 
water j until  there  remains  but  two  quarts.  Take  it  out 
and  let  it  get  cold.  Cut  off  the  whole  breast,  and  chop 
very  fine.  Mix  with  the  pounded  yolks  of  two  hard- 
boiled  eggs,  and  rub  through  a colander.  Cool;  skim, 
and  strain  the  soup  into  a soup-pot.  Season,  add  the 
chicken-and-egg  mixture,  simmer  ten  minutes,  and  pour 
into  the  tureen.  Then  add  a small  cup  of  boiling  milk. 

MOCK-TURTLE  SOUP. 

Clean  and  wash  a calf’s  head,  split  it  in  two,  save  the 
brains,  boil  the  head  until  it  is  tender  in  plenty  of  water; 
put  a slice  of  fat  ham,  a bunch  of  parsley  cut  small;  a 
sprig  of  thyme,  two  leeks  cut  small,  six  cloves;  a tea- 
spooniui  of  pepper,  and  three  ounces  butter,  into  a stew- 
pan,  and  fry  them  a nice  brown;  then  add  the  water  in 
which  the  bead  was  boiled,  cut  the  meat  from  the  head 
in  square  pieces,  and  put  them  to  the  soup;  add  a pint 
of  Madeira  and  one  lemon  sliced  thin,  and  Cayenne  pep- 
per and  salt  to  taste;  let  it  simmer  gently  for  two  hours, 
then  skim  it  clear  and  serve. 

Make  a forcemeat  of  the  brains  as  follows:  put  them 
in  a stew-pan,  pour  hot  water  over,  and  set  it  over  the 
fire  for  a few  minutes,  then  take  up;  chop  them  small,  with 
a sprig  of  parsley,  a salt  spoonful  of  salt  and  pepper  each, 
a tablespoonful  of  wheat  flour,  the  same  of  butter,  and 
one  well-beaten  egg,  make  in  small  balls,  and  drop  them 
in  the  soup  fifteen  minutes  before  it  is  taken  from  the 
fire;  in  making  the  balls,  a little  flour  may  be  necessary. 
Egg-balls  may  also  be  added. 

HARD  PEA  SOUP. 

Many  persons  keep  the  bones  of  their  roast  in  order 
to  convert  them  into  stock  for  pea  soup,  which  is,  to  my 
taste,  one  of  the  most  relishable  of  all  soups,  and  a 
famous  dish  for  cold  weather,  with  this  advantage  in  its 


28 


THE  EVEErvAY  COOKBOOK. 


favor,  that  it  may  be  made  from  almost  ^anything. 
Capital  stock  for  pea  soup  can  be  made  from  akuokle  of 
ham  or  from  a piece  of  pickled  pork.  Supposing  that  some 
such  stock  is  at  hand  to  the  extent  of  about  two  quarts, 
procure,  say,  two  pounds  of  split  peas,  wash  them  well, 
and  then  soak  them  for  a night  in  water  to  which  add  a 
■''ery  little  piece  of  soda  has  been  added  (the  floating  peas, 
should  be  all  thrown  away),  strain  out  the  peas  and 
place  them  in  the  stock,  adding  a head  of  celery,  a cut 
down  carrot  and  a large  onion  or  two,  and  season  with 
a pinch  of  curry  powder,  oi-  half  an  eggspoonful  of  Cay- 
enne pepper.  Boil  with  a lid  on  the  pot  till  all  is  soft, 
skimming  off  the  scum  occasionally,  and  then  carefully 
strain  into  a well-warmed  tureen,  beating  the  pulp 
through  the  strainer  with  a spoon.  Serve  as  hot  as 
possible,  placing  a breakfastcupful  of  crumbled  toast 
(bread)  into  the  tureen  before  the  soup  is  dished.  Much 
of  the  success  in  preparing  this  soup  lies  in  the 
“straining,”  which  ought  to  be  carefully  attended  to. 
A vv^ire  sieve  is  best;  but  an  active  housewife  must  never 
stick.  If  she  has  not  a sieve  made  for  the  purpose,  she 
can  fold  a piece  of  net  two  or  three  times,  and  use  that. 
When  a knuckle  of  ham  has  been  used  to  make  the 
stock  it  should  form  a part  of  the  dinner,  with  potatoes, 
or  it  may  be  used  as  a breakfast  or  supper  relish. 

GREEN  PEA  SOUP. 

Wash  a small  quarter  of  lamb  in  cold  water,  and  put 
it  into  a soup-pot  with  six  quarts  of  cold  water;  add  to 
it  two  tablespoonfuls  of  salt,  and  set  it  over  a moderate 
fire — let  it  boil  gently  for  two  hours,  then  skim  it  clear; 
add  a quart  of  shelled  peas,  and  a teaspoonful  of  pepper; 
cover  it,  and  let  it  boil  for  one  hour,  then  having 
scraped  the  skins  from  a quart  of  smali  potatoes,  add 
them  to  the  soup;  cover  the  pot,  and  let  Jt  boil  for  half 
an  hour  longer;  work  quarter  of  a poum  oi  butter,  and 


THE  EVERYDAY  COOK-BOOK  29 

a dessert  spoonful  of  flour  together,  and  add  them  to 
the  soup  ten  or  twelve  minutes  before  taking  it  of  the 
fire. 

Serve  the  meat  on  a dish  with  parsley  sauce  over, 
and  the  soup  in  a tureen, 

POTATO  SOUP. 

Potato  soup  is  suitable  for  a cold  day.  Make  it  in 
the  following  manner:  Get  as  many  beef  or  ham  bones 
as  you  can,  and  smash  them  into  fragments.  Add  a 
little  bit  of  lean  ham  to  give  flavor.  Boil  the  bone  and 
ham  for  two  hours  and  a half  at  least.  The  bone  of  a 
roast  beef  is  excellent.  Strain  off  the  liquor  carefully, 
empty  the  bones  and  debris  of  the  ham,  restore  the 
liquor  to  the  pot,  and  place  again  on  the  fire.  Having 
selected,  washed  and  pared  some  nice  potatoes,  cut 
them  into  small  pieces,  and  boil  them  in  the  stock 
until  they  melt  away.  An  onion  or  two  may  also  be 
boiled  among  the  bones  to  help  the  flavor.  I do  not 
like  thick  potatoe  soup,  and  I usually  strain  it  through 
a hair  sieve,  after  doing  so  placing  it  again  on  the  fire, 
seasoning  it  with  pepper  and  salt  to  taste.  A stick  of 
celery  boiled  with  the  bones  is  an  improvement.  Make 
only  the  quantity  required  for  the  day,  as  potatpe  soup 
is  best  when  it  is  newly  made. 

TOMATO  SOUP. 

Tomato  soup  is  a much-relished  American  dish,  and 
is  prepared  as  follows:  Steam,  or  rather  stew  slowly,  a 
mess  of  turnips,  carrots  and  onions,  also  a stalk  of 
celery,  with  half  a pound  of  lean  ham  and  a little  bit 
of  fresh  butter,  over  a slow  fire  for  an  hour  or  so. 
Then  add  two  quarts  of  diluted  stock  or  of  other  liquor 
in  which  meat  has  been  boiled,  as  also  eight  or  ten  ripe 
tomatoes.  Stew  the  whole  for  an  hour  and  a half,  then 
pass  through  the  sieve  into  the  pan  again;  add  a little 
pepper  and  salt,  boil  for  ten  minutes  and  serve  hot. 


80  TEE  EVERYDAY  COOK-BOOK. 

GAME  SOUP. 

Two  grouse  or  partridges,  or  if  you  have  neither, 
use  a pair  of  rabbits;  half  a pound  of  lean  ham;  two 
medium-sized  onions;  one  pound  of  lean  beef;  fried 
bread;  butter  for  frying;  pepper,  salt,  and  two  stalks 
of  white  celery,  cut  into  inch  lengths;  three  quarts  of 
water. 

Joint  your  game  neatly;  cut  the  ham  and  onions  into 
small  pieces,  and  fry  all  in  butter  to  a light  brown. 
Put  into  a soup-pot  with  the  beef,  cut  into  strips,  6«id  a 
little  pepper.  Pour  on  the  water,  heat  slowly,  and 
stew  gently  two  hours.  Take  out  the  pieces  of  bird, 
and  cover  in  a bowl;  cook  the  soup  an  hour  longer; 
strain,  cool,  drop  in  the  celery,  and  simmer  ten  minutes. 
Pour  upon  fried  bread  in  the  tureen. 

CELERY  SOUP. 

Celery  soup  may  be  made  with  white  stock.  Cut 
down  the  whites  of  half  a dozen  heads  of  celery  into 
little  pieces  and  boil  it  in  four  pints  of  white  stock, 
with  a quarter  of  a pound  of  lean  ham  and  two  ounces 
of  butter.  Simmer  gently  for  one  full  hour,  then  drain 
through  a sieve,  return  the  liquor  to  pan  and  stir  in  a 
few  spoonfuls  of  cream  with  great  care.  Serve  with 
toasted  bread,  and,  if  liked,  thicken  with  a little  flour. 
Season  to  taste. 

OYSTER  SOUP. 

Two  quarts  of  oysters,  one  quart  of  milk,  two  table- 
<poonsfuls  of  butter,  one  teacupful  hot  water;  pepper,  salt. 

Strain  all  the  liquor  from  the  oysters;  add  the  water 
and  heat.  When  near  the  boil,  add  the  seasoning,  then 
the  oysters.  Cook  about  five  minutes  from  the  time 
they  begin  to  simmer,  until  they  “ruffle.”  Stir  in  the 
butter,  cook  one  minute  and  pour  into  the  tureen.  Stir 
in  the  boiling  milk,  and  send  to  table. 


THE  EVERYDAY  COOKBOOK. 


31 


LOBSTER  SOUP, 

Procure  a large  hen  fish,  boiled,  and  with  all  its  coral, 
If  possible.  Cut  away  from  it  all  the  meat  in  neat  little 
pieces;  beat  up  the  fins  and  minor  claws  in  a mortar, 
then  strew  the  results  in  a stew-pan,  slowly,  along  with 
a little  white  stock;  season  this  with  a bunch  of  sweet 
herb;  a small  onion,  a little  bit  of  celery,  and  a carrot 
may  be  placed  in  the  stock  as  also  the  toasted  crust  of  a 
French  roll.  Season  to  taste  with  salt  and  a little  Cay- 
enne. Simmer  the  whole  for  about  an  hour;  then  strain 
and  return  to  the  saucepan;  place  in  it  the  pieces  of 
lobster,  and  having  beat  up  the  coral  in  a little  flour  and 
gravy,  stir  it  in.  Let  the  soup  remain  on  the  fire  for  a 
few  minutes  without  boiling  and  serve  hot.  A small 
strip  of  the  rind  of  a lemon  may  be  boiled  in  the  stock, 
and  a little  nutmeg  may  be  added  to  the  seasoning.  This 
is  a troublesome  soup  to  prepare,  but  there  are  many 
who  like  it  when  it  is  well  made. 

E@G  BALLS  FOR  SOUP. 

Boil  four  eggs;  put  into  cold  water;  mash  yolks  with 
yolk  of  one  raw  egg,  and  one  teaspoonful  of  flour,  pepper, 
salt  and  parsley;  make  into  balls  and  boil  two  minutes. 

NOODLES  FOR  SOUP. 

Rub  into  two  eggs  as  much  sifted  flour  as  they  will 
absorb;  then  roll  out  until  thin  as  a wafer ; dust  over  a little 
flour,  and  then  roll  over  and  over  into  a roll,  cut  off  thin 
slices  from  the  edge  of  the  roll,  and  shake  out  into 
long  strips;  put  them  into  the  soup  lightly  and  boil  for 
ten  minutes;  salt  should  be  added  while  mixing  with  tiie 
flour — about  a saltspoonful. 


THE  EVERIDAT  COOKBOOK. 


8a 

IRISH  STEW.— STOVED  POTATOES. 

These  form  excellent  and  nutritious  dishes.  The 
former  dish  can  be  made  from  a portion  of  the  back 
ribs  or  neck  of  mutton,  the  fleshy  part  of  which  must 
be  cut  into  cutlets.  Flatten  these  pieces  of  meat  with 
a roller,  and  dip  them  in  a composition  of  pepper,  salt 
and  flour.  Peel  potatoes  and  slice  them  to  the  extent 
of  two  pounds  of  potatoes  for  every  pound  of  meat. 
An  onion  or  two  sliced  into  small  bits  will  be  required. 
Before  building  the  materials  into  a goblet,  melt  a little 
suet  or  dipping  in  it;  then  commence  by  laying  in  the 
pot  a layer  of  potatoes,  which  dust  well  with  pepper 
and  salt,  then  a layer  of  meat  sprinkled  with  the  chop- 
ped onions,  and  so  on  till  the  goblet  is  pretty  full.  Fill 
in  about  a breakfast-cupful  of  gravy,  if  there  be  any  in 
the  house;  if  not,  water  will  do.  Finish  off  with  a 
treble  row  of  potatoes  on  top.  Let  the  mess  stew  slow- 
ly for  about  three  houre,  taking  great  care  to  keep  the 
lid  so  tight  that  none  of  the  virtue  can  escape — letting 
away  the  steam  is  just  letting  away  the  flavor.  Shake 
the  pot  occasionally  with  some  force  to  prevent 
burning.  Some  cooks  in  preparing  this  dish,  boil 
the  potatoes  for  some  time,  and  then  pour  and  dry  them 
well;  others  add  a portion  of  kidney  to  the  stew;  while 
extra vagent  people  throw  in  a few  oysters,  a slice  or  two 
of  lean  ham,  or  a ham  shank.  Irish  stew  should  be 
served  as  hot  as  possible.  It  is  a savory  and  inexpen- 
sive dish  for  cold  weather. — Stoved potatoes  are  prepared 
much  in  the  same  way.  Cut  down  what  of  the  Sunday’s 
roast  is  left,  and  proceed  with  it  just  as  you  would  with 
the  neck  of  mutton.  Some  cooks  would  stew  the  bones 
of  the  roast,  in  order  to  make  a gravy  in  which  to  stove 
the  meat  and  potatoes,  but  the  bones  will  make  excell- 
ent potato  soup.  Irish  stew  is  an  excellent  dish  for 
skaters  and  curlers.  It  is  sometimes  known  as  ‘ ‘hot  pot’ 


THE  EVERYDAY  COOK-BOOK. 


33 


TO  GET  UP  A SOUP  IN  HASTE. 

Chop  some  cold  cooked  meat  fine,  and  pat  a pint  into 
a stew-pan  with  some  gravy;  season  with  pepper  and 
salt  and  a little  batter,  if  the  gravy  is  not  rich;  add  a 
little  flour  moistened  with  cold  water,  and  three  pints 
boiling  water;  boil  moderately  half  an  hour.  Strain 
over  some  rice  or  nicely  toasted  bread,  and  serve. 
Uncooked  meat  may  be  used  by  using  one  quart  of 
cold  water  to  a pound  of  chopped  meat,  and  letting  it 
stand  half  an  hour  before  boiling.  Celery  root  may  be 
grated  in  as  a seasoning,  or  a bunch  of  parsley  thrown 
in. 

TO  COLOR  SOUPS. 

A fine  amber  color  is  obtained  by  adding  finely 
grated  carrot  to  the  clear  stock  when  it  is  quite  free 
from  scum. 

Red  is  obtained  by  using  red-skinned  tomatoes  from 
which  the  skin  and  seeds  have  been  strained  out. 

Only  white  vegetables  should  be  used  in  white  soups, 
as  chicken. 

Spinach  leaves,  pounded  in  a mortar,  and  the  juice 
expressed,  and  added  to  the  soups,  will  give  a green 
color. 

Black  beans  make  an  excellent  brown  soup.  The 
same  color  can  be  gotten  by  addding  burnt  sugar  or 
browned  flour  to  clear  stock. 


FISH. 


Fish  are  good,  when  the  gills  are  red,  eyes  are  full, 
and  the  body  of  the  fish  is  firm  and  stiff.  After  wash- 
ing them  well,  they  should  be  allowed  to  remain  for  a 
short  time  in  salt  water  sufficient  to  cover  them;  before 
cooking  wipe  them  dry,  dredge  lightly  with  flour,  and 


84 


TEE  EVERYDAY  GOOK-BOOK. 


season  with  salt  and  pepper.  Salmon  trout  and  otL» 
small  fish  are  usually  fried  or  broiled;  all  large  fish 
should  be  put  in  a cloth,  tied  closely  with  twine,  and 
placed  in  cold  water,  when  they  may  be  put  over  the 
fire  to  boil.  When  fish  are  baked,  prepare  the  fish  the 
same  as  for  boiling,  and  put  in  the  oven  on  a wire  grid- 
iron, over  a dripping-pan. 

BOILED  SALMON. 

The  middle  slice  of  salmon  is  the  best.  Sew  up 
neatly  in  a mosquito-net  bag,  and  boil  a quarter  of  an 
hour  to  the.  pound,  in  hot,  salted  water.  When  done, 
unwrap  with  care,  and  lay  upon  a hot  dish,  taking  care 
not  to  break  it.  Have  ready  a large  cupful  of  drawn 
butter,  very  rich,  in  which  has  been  stirred  a table- 
spoonful of  minced  parsley  and  the  juice  of  a lemon, 
Pour  half  upon  the  salmon,  and  serve  the  rest  in  a 
boat.  Garnish  with  parsley  and  sliced  eggs. 

Here  is  a recipe  for  a nice  pickle  for  cold  salmoriy 
made  out  of  the  liquor  in  which  the  fish  has  been 
boiled,  of  which  take  as  much  as  you  wish,  say  three 
breakfast  cupfuls,  to  which  add  vinegar  to  taste  (per- 
haps a teacupful  will  be  enough),  a good  pinch  of  pep- 
per, a dessert-spoonful  of  salt.  Boil  for  a few  minutes 
with  a sprig  or  two  of  parsley  and  a little  thyme. 
After  it  has  become  quite  cold,  pour  it  oveif  the  fish. 

BROILED  SALMON. 

Cut  some  slices  about  an  inch  thick,  and  broil  them 
over  a gentle  bright  fire  of  coals,  for  ten  or  twelve  min- 
utes. When  both  sides  are  done,  take  them  on  to  a 
hot  dish;  butter  each  slice  well  with  sweet  butter; 
strew  over  each  a very  little  salt  and  pepper  to  taste, 
and  serve. 


THE  EVERYDAY  COOK-BOOR.  Sa 

BAKED  SALMON. 

Clean  the  fish,  rinse  it  and  wipe  it  dry;  mb  it  well  out- 
side and  in,  with  a mixture  of  pepper  and  salt,  and  fill  it 
with  a stuffing  made  with  slices  of  bread,  buttered 
freely  and  moistened  with  hot  milk  or  water  (add  sage 
or  t%me  to  the  seasoning,  if  liked);  tie  a thread 
around  the  fish  so  as  to  keep  the  stuiSng  in  (take  ofit 
the  thread  before  serving;)  lay  muffin-rings,  or  a trivet 
in  a dripping-pan,  lay  bits  of  butter  over  the  fish, 
dredge  flour  over,  and  put  it  on  the  rings;  put  a pint 
of  hot  water  in  the  pan,  to  baste  with;  bake  one  hour, 
if  a large  fish,  in  a quick  oven;  baste  frequently. 
When  the  fish  is  taken  up,  having  cut  a lemon  in  very 
thin  slices,  put  them  in  the  pan  and  let  them  fry  a little; 
then  dredge  in  a teaspoonful  of  wheat  flour;  add  a 
small  bit  of  butter;  stir  it  about,  and  let  it  brown 
without  burning,  for  a little  while;  then  add  half  a tea- 
cup or  more  of  boiling  water,  stir  it  smooth,  take  the 
slices  of  lemon  into  the  gravy-boat,  and  strain  the 
gravy  over.  Serve  with  boiled  potatoes.  The  lemon 
may  be  omitted,  if  preferred,  although  generally  it  will 
be  liked. 

SALMON  TROUT. 

Dressed  the  same  as  salmon. 

SPICED  SALMON  (PICKLED.) 

Boil  a salmon,  and  after  wiping  it  dry,  set  it  to  cool; 
take  the  water  in  which  it  was  boiled,  and  good  vinegar 
each  equal  parts,  enough  to  cover  it;  add  to  it  one 
dozen  cloves,  as  many  small  blades  of  mace,  or  sliced 
nutmeg,  one  teaspoonful  of  whole  pepper;  and  the  same 
of  alspiee;  make  it  boiling  hot,  skim  it  clear,  add  a 
small  hit  of  butter  (the  size  of  a small  egg);  and  pour  it 
over  the  fish;  set  it  in  a cool  place.  When  cold,  it  is  fit 
for  use,  and  will  keep  for  a long  time,  covered  close,  ia 


m THE  EVER  YD  A Y CODK-BOOR. 

a cool  place.  Serve  instead  of  pickled  oysters  for  supper. 

A fresh  cod  is  very  nice,  done  in  the  same  manner, 
as  is  also  a striped  sea  bass. 

SALMON  AND  CAPER  SAUCE. 

Two  slices  of  salmon,  one  quarter  pound  butter;  one 
half  teaspoonful  of  chopped  parsley,  one  shalot;  salt, 
pepper  and  grated  nutmeg  to  taste. 

Mode:  Lay  the  salmon  in  a baking-dish,  place  pieces 
of  butter  over  it,  and  add  the  other  ingredients,  rubbing 
a little  of  the  seasoning  into  the  fish;  baste  it  frequently; 
when  done,  take  it  out  and  drain  for  a minute  or  two; 
lay  it  in  a dish;  pour  caper  sauce  over  it,  and  serve; 
salmon  dressed  in  this  way,  with  tomato  sauce  is  very 
delicious. 

SALMON  CUTLETS. 

\ 

Cut  the  slices  one  inch  thick,  and  season  them  with 
pepper  and  salt;  butter  a sheet  of  white  paper,  lay  each 
slice  on  a separate  piece,  with  their  ends  twisted;  boil 
gently  over  a clear  fire,  and  serve  with  anchovy  or  caper 
sauce.  When  higher  seasoning  is  required,  add  a few 
chopped  herbs  and  a little  spice. 

DRIED  OR  SMOKED  SALMON. 

Cut  the  fish  down  the  back,  take  out  the  entrails,  and 
roe,  scale  it,  and  rub  the  outside  and  in  with  common 
salt,  and  hang  it  to  drain  for  twenty-four  hours. 

Pound  three  ounces  of  saltpetre,  two  ounces  ofjooarse 
salt  and  two  of  coarse  brown  sugar;  mix  these  well  to- 
gether, and  rub  the  salmon  over  every  part  with  it;  then 
lay  it  on  a large  dish  for  two  days;  then  rub  it  over 
with  common  salt,  and  in  twenty -four  hours  it  will  be  fit 
to  dry.  Wipe  it  well,  stretch  it  open  with  two  sticks, 
and  hang  it  in  a chimney,  with  a smothered  wood  fire, 
or  in  a smoke  house,  or  in  a dry,  cool  place. 

Shad  done  in  this  manner  are  very  &ie. 


THE  EVERY  DAY  COOK-BOOK. 


87 


BOILED  COD. 

Lay  the  fish  in  cold  water,  a little  salt,  for  half  an 
hour.  Wipe  diy,  and  sew  up  in  a linen  cloth,  coarse 
and  clean  fitted  to  the  shape  of  the  piece  of  cod.  Have 
but  one  fold  over  each  part.  Lay  in  the  fish-kettle, 
cover  with  boiling  water,  salted  at  disci’etion.  Allow 
nearly  an  hour  for  a piece  weighing  four  pounds. 

COD  PIE. 

Any  remaivvs  of  cold  cod,  twelve  oysters,  sufficient 
melted  butter  to  moisten  it ; mashed  potatoes  enough 
to  fill  up  the  dish. 

Mode:  , Flake  the  fish  from  the  bone,  and  carefully 
take  away  all  the  skin.  Lay  it  into  a pie-dish,  pour 
over  the  melted  butter  and  oysters  (or  oyster  sauce,  if 
there  is  any  left),  and  cover  with  mashed  potatoes. 
Bake  for  half  an  hour,  and  send  to  table  of  a nice 
brown  color. 

DBIED  CODFISH. 

This  should  always  be  laid  in  soak  at  least  one  night 
before  it  is  wanted ; then  take  off  the  skin  and  put  in 
plenty  of  cold  water ; boil  it  gently  (skimming  it  mean- 
while) for  one  hour,  or  tie  it  in  a cloth  and  boil  it. 

Serve  with  egg  sauce  ; garnish  with  hard  boiled  eggs 
cut  in  slices,  and  sprigs  of  parsley.  Serve  plain  boiled 
or  mashed  potatoes  with  it. 

STEWED  SALT  COD. 

Scald  some  soaked  cod  by  putting  it  over  the  fire  in 
boiling  water  for  ten  minutes ; then  scrape  it  white, 
pick  it  in  flakes,  and  put  it  in  a stew-pan,  with  a table- 
spoonful of  butter  worked  into  the  same  of  flour,  and 
ae  much  milk  as  will  moisten  it ; let  it  stew  gently  for 


8S 


THE  E VERY  EAT  COOK-BOOK. 


ten  minutes ; add  ]:»eppcr  tt)  taste,  and  serve  hot ; Jjut 
it  in  a deep  dish,  siico  hard  boiled  eggs  over,  and  sprigs 
of  parsley  around  the  cilge. 

This  is  a nice  relish  for  breakfast,  with  coffee  and 
tea,  and  rolls  or  toast. 

CODFISH  CAKES. 

First  boil  soaked  cod,  then  chop  it  fine,  put  it  in 
an  equal  quantity  of  potatoes  boiled  and  mashed , moist- 
en it  with  beaten  eggs  or  milk,  and  a bit  of  butter  and 
a little  pepper ; form  it  in  small  round  cakes,  rather 
more  than  a half  inch  thick  ; flour  the  outside,  and  fiy 
iii  hot  lard  or  beef  drippings  until  they  are  a delicate 
brown ; like  fish,  these  must  be  fried  gently,  the  lard 
being  boiling  hot  when  they  are  put  in  ; when  one  side 
is  done  turn  the  other.  Serve  for  breakfast. 

BOILED  BASS. 

Put  enongh  water  in  the  pot  for  the  fish  to  swim  in, 
easily.  Add  half  a cup  of  vinegar,  a tablespoonful  of 
salt,  an  onion,  a dozen  black  peppers,  and  a blade  of 
mace.  Sew  up  the  fish  in  a piece  of  clean  net,  fitted  to 
its  shape.  Heat  slowly  for  the  first  half  hour,  then 
boil  eight  minutes,  at  least,  to  the  pound,  quite  fast. 
Unwrap,  and  pour  over  it  a cup  of  drawn  butter,  based 
upon  the  liquor  in  which  the  fish  was  boiled,  with  the 
juice  of  half  a lemon  stirred  into  it.  Garnish  with 
sliced  lemon. 

PRIED  BASS. 

Clean,  wipe  dry,  inside  and  out,  dredge  with  flour, 
and  season  with  salt.  Fry  in  hot  buttei’,  beei-dripping, 
or  sweet  lard.  Half-butter,  half-lai’d  is  a good  mixture 
for  fi’ying  fish.  The  moment  the  fish  are  done  to  a 
good  i)ruwn,  take  them  from  the  fat  and  drain  in  n 1?** 
colafidef,  QaTOish  witit  psirsiei’, 


THE  EVE  BYDAY  COOK-BOOK, 


TO  FRY  OR  BROIL  FISH  PROPERLY. 

After  the  fish  is  well  cleansed,  lay  it  on  a folded 
towel  and  dry  out  all  the  water.  When  well  wiped  dry, 
roll  it  in  wheat  flour,  rolled  crackers,  grated  stale  bread, 
or  Indian  meal,  whichever  may  be  preferred;  wheat 
flour  will  generally  be  liked. 

Have  a thick-bottomed  frying-pan  or  spider,  with 
plenty  of  sweet  lard  salted  (a  tablespoonful  of  salt  to 
each  pound  of  lard),  for  fresh  fish  which  have  not  been 
previously  salted;  let  it  become  boiling  hot,  then  lay 
the  fish  in  and  let  it  fry  gently,  until  one  side 
is  a fine  delicate  brown,  then  turn  the  other;  when  both 
are  done,  take  it  up  carefully  and  serve  quickly,  or  keep 
it  covered  with  a tin  cover,  and  set  the  dish  where  it 
will  keep  hot. 

BAKED  BLACK  BASS. 

Eight  good-sized  onions  chopped  fine;  half  thatqualty 
of  bread-crumbs;  butter  size  of  hen’s  egg;  plenty  of 
pepper  and  salt,  mix  throughly  with  anchovy  sauce 
until  quite  red.  Stuff  your  fish  with  this  compound 
and  pour  the  rest  over  it,  previously  sprinkling  it  with 
a little  red  pepper.  Shad,  pickerel,  and  trout  are  good 
the  same  way.  Tomatoes  can  be  used  instead  of  an- 
chovies, and  are  more  economical.  If  using  them  take 
pork  in  place  of  butter  and  chop  fine, 

BROILED  MACKEREL 

Pepper  and  salt  to  taste,  a small  quantity  of  oil. 
Mackeral  should  never  be  washed  when  intended  to  be 
broiled,  but  merely  wiped  very  clean  and  dry  after  taking 
out  the  gills  and  inside.  Open  the  back,  and  put  in  ^ 
pepper^  and  oil;  broil  it  over  a olea« 


40 


THE  EVERYDAT COOK-BOOK. 


turn  it  over  on  both  sides,  and  also  on  the  back.  When 
sufficiently  cooked,  the  flesh  can  be  detached  from  the 
bone,  ■which  will  be  in  about  ten  minutes  for  a small 
mackerel.  Chop  a little  parsley,  work  it  up  in  the  but- 
ter, with  pepper  and  salt  to  taste,  and  a squeeze  of 
lemon-juice,  and  put  it  in  the  back.  Serve  before  the 
butter  is  quite  melted. 

Mode;  Scale  and  clean  the  pike,  and  fasten  the  tail 
in  its  mouth  by  means  of  a skewer.  Lay  it  in  coli 
water,  and  when  it  boils,  throw  in  the  salt  and  vinegar. 
The  time  for  boiling  depends,  of  course,  on  the  sizegof 
the  fish;  but  a middling-sized  pike  will  take  about  half 
an  hour.  Serve  with  Dutch  or  anchovy  sauce,  and 
plain  melted  butter. 

Mackerel  baked  will  be  found  palatable.  Clean  and 
trim  the  fish  nicely,  say  four  large  ones  or  half  a dozen 
small  ones,  bone  them  and  lay  neatly  in  a baking  dish, 
or  a bed  of  potato  chips  well  dusted  with  a mixture  of 
pepper  and  salt,  on  the  potatoes  place  a few  pieces  of 
butter.  Dust  the  fish  seperately  with  pepper  and  salt, 
and  sprinkle  slightly  with  a diluted  mixture  of  anchovy 
sauce  and  catsup.  Bake  three  quarters  of  an  hour. 

SALT  MACKEREL  WITH  CREAM  SAUCE. 

Soak  over  night  in  lukewarm  water,  changing  this  in 
the  morning  for  ice-cold.  Kub  all  the  salt  off,  and  wipe 
dry.  Grease  your  gridiron  with  butter,  and  rub  the 
fish  on  both  sides  with  the  same  melte<l.  Then  broil 
quickly  over  a clear  fire,  turning  with  a cake-turner  so  as 
not  to  break  it.  Lay  upon  a hot  water  dish,  and  cover 
until  the  sauce  is  ready. 

Heat  a small  cup  of  milk  for  scalding.  Stir  into  it 
a teaspoonful  of  cora-starch  wet  up  with  a little  water. 
When  this  thickens,  add  two  tablespoonfuls  of  butter, 
pepper,  saltj  chopped  parsley.  Beat  an  egg  light 


THE  EVERYDAY  COOK-BOOK. 


41 


pour  the  sauce  gradually  over  it,  put  the  mixture  agdn 
over  the  fire,  and  stir  one  minute,  not  more.  Pcur 
upon  the  fish,  and  let  all  stand,  covered,  over  the 
hot  water  in  the  chafing  dish.  Put  fresh  boiling  water 
under  the  dish  before  sending  to  table. 

BOILED  EELS. 

Four  small  eels,  sufficient  water  to  cover  them;  a 
large  bunch  of  parsley. 

Choose  small  eels  for  boiling,  put  them  on  a stewpan 
with  the  parsley,  and  just  sufficient  water  to  cover  them; 
simmer  till  tender.  Take  them  out,  pour  a little  pars- 
ley over  them,  and  serve  some  in  a tureen. 

PBICASSEED  EELS. 

After  skinning,  cleaning,  and  cutting  five  or  six  m 
pieces  of  two  inches  in  length,  boil  them  in  water  nearly 
to  cover  them,  until  tender;  then  add  a good-sized  bit 
of  butter,  with  a teaspoonful  of  wheat  flour  or  rolled 
cracker,  worked  into  it,  and  a little  scalded  and  chopped 
parsley;  add  salt  and  pepper  to  taste,  and  a wine-glass 
of  vinegar  if  liked;  let  theln  simmer  for  ten  minutes  and 
serve  hot. 

PRIED  EELS. 

After  cleaning  the  eels  well,  cut  them  in  pieces  two 
inches  long;  wash  them  and  wipe  them  dry;  roll  them  in 
wheat  flour  or  rolled  cracker,  and  fry  as  directed  for 
other  fish,  in  hot  lard  or  beef  drippings,  salted.  They 
should  be  browned  all  over  and  thoroughly  done. 

Eels  may  be  prepared  in  the  same  manner  and  boiled. 
COLLARED  EELS. 

One  large  eel,  peppered  and  salted  to  taste;  two  blades 
of  mace,  two  cloves,  a little  allspice  very  finely  pounded, 
six  leaves  of  sage,  and  a small  bunch  of  herbs  minced 
very  small. 

Mode:  Bone  the  eel  and  skin  it;  split  it,  and  sprinkle 
it  over  with  the  ingredients,  taking  care  that  the  fi|ttces 


^2 


TEE  EVERYDAY  COOEBOOK. 


are  very  finely  pounded,  and  the  herbs  chopped  very 
small.  Roll  it  up  and  bind  with  a broad  piece  of  tape, 
and  boil  it  in  water,  mixed  with  a little  salt  and  vinegar, 
till  tender.  It  may  either  be  served  whole  or  cut  in 
slices;  and  when  cold,  the  eel  should  be  kept  in  the 
liquor  it  is  boiled  in  but  with  a little  more  vinegar  put 
to  it. 

PRIED  TROUT. 

They  must,  of  course,  be  nicely  cleaned  and  trim- 
med all  round,  but  do  not  cut  off  their  heads.  Dredge 
them  well  with  flour,  and  fry  in  a pan  of  boiling  hot  fat 
or  oil.  Turn  them  from  side  to  side  till  they  are  nicely 
browned,  and  quite  ready.  Drain  off  all  fat  before 
sending  dish  to  table;  garnish  them  with  a few  sprigs 
of  parsley,  and  provide  plain  melted  butter.  If  pre- 
ferred, the  trout  can  be  larded  with  beaten  eggs,  and  be 
then  dipped  in  bread  crumb.  The  frying  will  occupy 
from  five  to  eight  minutes,  according  to  size.  Very 
large  trout  can  be  cut  to  pieces. 

TROUT  IN  JELLY  (or  other  Pish). 

This  is  a beautiful  supper  dish,  and  may  be  aranged 
as  follows:  Turn  the  fish  into  rings,  with  tails  in 
mouth,  prepare  a seasoned  water  in  which  to  boil  the 
trout;  the  water  should  have  a little  vinegar  and  salt  in 
it,  and  may  be  flavored  with  a shallot  or  clove  or  garlic. 
When  the  water  is  cold,  place  the  trout  in  it,  and  boil 
them  very  gently,  so  as  not  to  hash  or  break  them. 
When  done,  lift  out  and  drain.  Baste  with  fish  jelly, 
for  which  a receipt  is  given  elsewhere,  coat  after  coat, 
as  each  coat  hardens.  Arange  neatly,  aud  serve. 

BOILED  TROUT. 

Let  the  water  be  thoroughly  a-boil  before  you  put  in 
the  fish.  See  that  it  is  salt,  and  that  a dish  of  vinegar 


E VEE  YD  A Y COOK-BOOK.  4S 

has  been  put  m rr,  Kemove  all  scum  as  it  rises,  and 
boil  the  fish  tiu  th.ir  eyes  protudc.  Lift  them  without 
breaking,  drain  off  the  liquor,  and  serve  on  a napkin  if 
you  like.  To  be  eaten  with  a sauce  according  to  taste, 
that  is,  if  it  can  be  made  of  either  anchovies  or  shrimps, 

BEOILED  TROUT. 

Clean  and  split  them  open,  season  with  a little  salt 
and  cayenne;  dip  in  whipped  egg,  dredge  with  flour 
and  brandy  over  a clear  fire.  Serve  with  sauce. 

BAKED  HADDOCK. 

Choose  a nice  fish  of  about  six  pounds,  which  trim 
and  scrape  nicely,  gutting  it  carefully;  fill  the  vacuum 
with  a stuffing  of  veal,  chopped  ham  and  bread-crumbs, 
sew  up  with  strong  thread,  and  shape  the  fish  round, 
putting  its  tail  into  its  mouth,  or,  if  two  are  required, 
lay  them  along  the  dish  reversed — that  is  tail  to  head; 
mb  over  with  penty  of  butter,  or  a batter  of  eggs  and 
flour,  and  then  sprinkle  with  bread-crumbs.  Let  the 
oven  be  pretty  hot  when  put  in.  In  about  an  hour  the 
fish  will  be  ready.  Serve  on  the  tin  or  aisset  in  which 
they  have  been  baked,  placing  them  on  a larger  dish 
for  that  purpose.  Mussel  sauce  is  a good  accompani- 
ment. 

CURRIED  HADDOCK. 

Curried  haddock  is  excellent.  Fillet  the  fish  and 
curry  it  in  a pint  cf  beef  stock  slightly  diluted  with 
water,  and  thickened  with  a tablespoonful  of  curry 
powder.  Some  cooks  chop  up  an  onion  to  place  in  the 
stew.  It  will  take  an  hour  to  ready  this  fish.  If  pre- 
ferred, fry  the  fish  for  a few  minutes  in  clean  lard  oil 
before  stewing  it  in  the  curry. 


M 


THE  EVERYDAY  COOKBOOK. 


HISZABED  HADDOCK. 

First,  of  course,  procure  your  fish,  clean  them  thor- 
oughly, rub  them  well  with  salt,  and  let  them  lie  for 
one  night,  after  which  hang  them  in  the  open  air,  to 
dry,  in  a shady  place.  In  two  days  they  will  be  ready 
for  the  gridiron.  Before  cooking  them  take  out  the 
back  bone  and  skin  them,  if  desired  (I  never  do  skin 
them),  broil  till  ready,  eat  with  a little  fresh  butter. 

Haddocks  can  be  boiled  with  advantage:  all  that  is 
necessary  is  plenty  of  salt  in  the  water,  and  not  to  serve 
them  until  they  are  well  done.  As  a general  rule,  it 
may  be  ascertained  when  the  fish  is  suffiently  cooked  by 
the  readiness  with  which  the  flesh  lifts  from  the  bone. 
Stick  a fork  into  the  shoulder  of  a cod  or  haddock  and 
try  it.  If  living  sufficiently  near  the  sea,  procure  sea 
water  in  which  to  boil  your  haddocks. 

BROILED  WHITE  PISH— FRESH. 

Wash  and  drain  the  fish;  sprinkle  with  pepper  and 
lay  with  the  inside  down  upon  the  gridiron,  and  broil 
over  fresh,  bright  coals.  When  a nice  brown,  turn  for 
a moment  on  the  other  side,  then  take  up  and  spread 
with  butter.  This  is  a very  nice  way  of  broiling  all 
kinds  of  fish,  fresh  or  salted.  A little  smoke  under  the 
fish  adds  to  its  flavor.  This  may  be  made  by  putting 
two  or  three  cobs  under  the  gridiron. 

BAKED  WHITE-FISH. 

Fill  the  fish  with  a stuffing  of  fine  bread-crumbs  and 
a little  butter;  sew  up  the  fish;  sprinkle  with  butter, 
pepper  and  salt.  Dredge  with  flour  and  bake  one  hour, 
basting  often  and  serving  with  parsley  sauce  or  ^g 
sauce. 


TEE  EVERYDAY  COOKBOOK 

' TO  CnOOBE  LOBSTERS. 

These  are  chosen  more  by  weight  than  size,  the 
heaviest  are  the  best ; a good,  small-sized  one  will  not 
unfrequently  be  found  to  weigh  as  heavily  as  one  much 
larger.  If  fresh,  a lobster  will  be  lively  and  the  claws 
have  a strong  motion  when  the  eyes  are  pressed  with 
the  finger. 

The  male  is  best  for  boiling ; the  flesh  is  firmer,  and 
the  shell  a brighter  red  ; it  may  be  readily  distinguished 
from  the  female;  the  tail  is  narrower,  and  the  two 
uppermost  fins  within  the  tail  are  stiff  and  hard.  Those 
of  the  hen  lobster  are  not  so,  and  the  tail  is  broader. 

Hen  lobsters  are  preferred  for  sauce  or  salad,  on 
account  of  their  coral.  The  head  and  small  claws  are 
never  used. 

BOILED  LOBSTER. 

These  crustaceans  are  usually  sold  ready-boiled^ 
When  served,  crack  the  claws  and  cut  open  the  body- 
lay  neatly  on  a napkin-covered  dish,  and  garnish  with  a 
few  sprigs  of  parsley.  Lobster  so  served  is  usually 
eaten  cold. 

CURRIED  LOBSTER. 

Pick  out  the  meat  of  two  red  lobsters  from  the  shells 
into  a shallow  sauce-pan,  in  the  bottom  of  which  has 
been  placed  a thin  slice  of  tasty  ham,  with  a little 
Cayenne  pepper  and  a teaspoonful  of  salt.  Mix  up 
half  a cupful  of  white  soup  and  half  a cupful  of  cream 
and  pour  over  the  meat.  Put  it  on  the  fire  and  let  it 
simmer  for  about  an  hour,  when  you  will  add  a dessert- 
spoonful of  curry,  and  another  of  flour  rubbed  smooth 
in  a little  of  the  liquor  taken  out  of  the  pot ; in  three 
minutes  the  curry  will  be  ready  to  dish.  Some  add  a 
dash  of  lemon  to  this  curry  (I  don’t),  and  the  cream  can 
be  dispensed  with  if  necessary.  Put  a rim  of  well- 
boiled  rice  round  the  dish  if  you  like,  or  serve  the  rice 


*6 


THE  EVERYDAY  COOK-BOOK. 


LOBSTER  CHOWDER. 

Four  or  five  pounds  of  lobster,  chopped  fine ; take 
the  green  part  and  add  to  it  four  pounded  crackers  ; 
stir  this  into  one  quart  of  boiling  milk  ; then  add  the 
lobster,  a piece  of  butter  one-half  the  size  of  an  egg,  a 
little  pepper  and  salt,  and  bring  it  to  a boil. 

CHOWDER. 

Cut  some  slices  of  pork  very  thin,  and  fry  them  out 
dry  in  the  dinner-pot ; then  put  in  a layer  of  fish  cut  in 
slices  on  the  pork,  then  a layer  of  onions,  and  then 
potatoes,  all  cut  in  exceedingly  thin  slices ; then  fish, 
onions,  potatoes  again,  till  your  materials  are  all  in, 
putting  some  salt  and  pepper  on  each  layer  of  onions  ; 
split  some  hard  biscuit^,  dip  them  in  water,  and  put 
them  round  the  sides  and  over  the  top ; put  m water 
enough  to  come  up  in  sight ; stew  for  over  half  an 
hour,  till  the  potatoes  are  done  ; add  half  a pint  of  milk, 
or  a teacup  of  sweet  cream,  five  minutes  before  you 
take  it  up. 

TO  FRY  SMELTS. 

Egg  and  bread-crumbs,  a little  flour,  boiling  lard. 
Smelts  should  be  very  fresh,  and  not  washed  more  than 
is  necessary  to  clean  them.  Dry  them  in  a cloth, 
lightly  flour,  dip  them  in  egg,  and  sprinkle  over  with 
very  fine  bread-crumbs,  and  put  them  into  boiling  lard. 
Fry  of  a nice  pale  brown,  and  be  careful  not  to  take  off 
the  light  roughness  of  the  crumbs,  or  their  beauty  will 
be  spoiled.  Dry  them  before  the  fire  on  a drainer,  and 
serve  with  plain  melted  butter. 

TO  BAKE  SMELTS. 

Smelts,  bread-crumbs,  one-quarter  pound  of  fresh 
butter,  two  blades  of  pounded  mace ; salt  and  Cayenne 


TEE  EVEBYDAY  COOK-BOOK. 


to  taste.  Wash,  and  dry  the  fish  thoroughly  in  a cloth, 
and  arrange  them  nicely  in  a flat  baking-dish.  Cover 
them  with  fine  bread-crumbs,  and  place  little  pieces  of 
butter  all  over  them.  Season  and  bake  for  fifteen 
minutes.  But  before  serving,  add  a squeeze  of  lemon- 
juice,  and  garnish  with  fried  parsley  and  cut  lemon. 

RED  HERRINGS  or  YARMOUTH 
BLOATERS. 

The  best  way  to  cook  these  is  to  make  incisions  in 
the  skin  across  the  fish,  because  they  do  not  require  to 
be  so  long  on  the  fire,  and  will  be  far  better  than  when 
cut  open.  The  hard  roe  makes  a nice  relish  by  pound- 
ing it  in  a mortar,  with  a little  anchovy,  and  spreading 
it  on  toast.  If  very  dry,  soak  in  warm  water,  one 
hour  before  dressing. 

POTTED  PISH. 

Take  out  the  backbone  of  the  fish ; for  one  weighing 
two  pounds  take  a tablespoonful  of  allspice  and  cloves 
mixed ; these  spices  should  be  put  into  little  bags  of 
not  too  thick  muslin ; put  sufficient  salt  directly  upon 
each  fish ; then  roll  in  a cloth,  over  which  sprinkle  a 
little  Cayenne  pepper ; put  alternate  layers  of  fish, 
spice  and  sago  in  an  earthen  jar;  cover  the  jar  closely 
with  a plate  and  over  this  put  a covering  of  dough, 
rolled  out  to  twice  the  thickness  of  pie  crust.  Make 
the  edges  of  paste,  to  adhere  closely  to  the  sides  of  the 
jar,  so  as  to  make  it  air-tight.  Put  the  jar  into  a pot 
of  cold  water  and  let  it  boil  from  three  to  five  hours, 
according  to  quantity.  Ready  when  cold. 

OYSTERS  ON  THE  SHELL. 

Wash  the  shells  and  put  them  on  hot  coals  or  upon 
the  top  of  a hot  stove,  or  bake  them  in  a hot  oven ; 
open  the  shells  with  an  oyster-knife,  taking  care  to  lose 
none  of  the  liquor,  and  serve  quickly  on  hot  plates, 


49  THE  EVERY  DA  Y COOK-BOOK. 

T^ith  toast.  Oysters  may  be  steamed  in  the  shells,  and 
are  excellent  eaten  in  the  same  manner. 

OYSTERS  STEWED  WITH  MILK. 

’ Take  a pint  of  fine  oysters,  put  them  with  their  own 
liquor  and  a gill  of  milk  into  a stew  pan,  and  if  liked, 
a blade  of  mace,  set  it  over  the  fire,  take  off  any  scum 
which  may  rise  ; when  they  are  plump  and  white,  turn 
them  into  a deep  plate ; add  a bit  of  butter,  and  pepper 
to  taste.  Serve  crackers  and  dressed  celery  with  them. 
Oysters  may  be  stewed  in  their  own  liquor  without 
milk. 

OYSTERS  PRIED  IN  BATTER. 

Half  pint  oysters,  two  eggs,  half  pint  of  milk,  suffic- 
ient flour  to  make  the  batter,  pepper  and  salt  to  taste ; 
wffien  liked,  a nutmeg ; hot  lard.  Scald  the  oysters  in 
their  own  liquor,  beard  them,  and  lay  them  on  a cloth, 
to  drain  thoroughly.  Break  the  eggs  into  a basin,  mix 
the  flonr  with  them,  add  the  milk  gradually,  with  nut- 
meg and  seasoning,  and  put  the  oysters  in  a batter. 
Make  some  lard  hot  in  a deep  frying-pan,  put  in  the 
oysters,  one  at  a time ; when  done,  take  them  up  with 
a shaip-pointed  skewer,  and  dish  them  on  a napkin. 
Fried  oysters  are  frequently  used  for  garnishing  boiled 
fish,  and  then  a few  bread-crumbs  should  be  added  to 
{he  flour. 

SCALLOPED  OYSTERS. 

Two  tablespoonfuls  of  white  stock,  two  tablespoon* 
fuls  of  cream  ; pepper  and  salt  to  taste  ; bread-crumbs, 
oiled,  butter.  Scald  the  oysters  in  their  own  liquor, 
take  them  out,  beard  them,  and  strain  the  liqour  free 
from  grit.  Put  one  ounce  of  butter  into  a stewpao; 
when  melted,  dredge  in  sufficient  flour  to  dry  it  up;  add 
the  stock,  cream  and  strained  liquor,  and  give  one  boil. 


THE  EVERY  DAT  GOOHBOOK.  49 

Put  in  the  oysters  and  seasoning ; let  them  gradually 
heat  through,  but  do  not  boil.  Have  ready  the  scallop- 
shells  buttered  ; lay  in  the  oysters,  and  as  much  of  the 
liquid  as  they  will  hold-;  cover  them  over  with  bread- 
crumbs, over  which  drop  a little  oiled  butter.  Brown 
them  in  the  oven,  or  before  the  fire,  and  serve  quickly 
and  very  hot. 

PRIED  OYSTERS. 

Take  large  oysters  from  their  own  liquor  on  to  a 
thickly  folded  napkin  to  dry  them  off;  then  make  a table- 
spoonful of  lard  or  beef  fat  hot,  in  a thick  bottomed 
frying-pan,  add  to  it  half  a saltspoonful  of  salt;  dip 
each  oyster  in  wheat  flour,  or  cracker  rolled  fine,  until 
it  will  take  up  no  more,  then  lay  them  in  the  pan,  hold 
it  over  a gentle  fire  until  one  side  is  a delicate  brown; 
turn  the  other  by  sliding  a fork  under  it;  five  minutes 
will  fry  them  after  they  are  in  the  pan.  Oysters  may 
be  fried  in  butter  but  it  is  not  so  good,  lard  and  butter 
half  and  half  is  very  nice  for  frying.  Some  persons 
like  a very  little  of  the  oyster  liquid  poured  in  the  pan 
after  the  oysters  are  done;  let  it  boil  up,  then  put  it  in 
the  dish  with  the  oysters;  when  wanted  for  breakfast, 
this  should  be  done. 

Oyters  to  be  fried,  after  drying  as  directed,  may  be 
dipped  into  beaten  egg  first,  then  into  rolled  cracker. 

OYSTER  PATTIES. 

Make  some  rich  puff  paste  and  bake  it  in  very  small 
tin  patty  pans;  when  cool  turn  them  out  upon  a large 
dish;  stew  some  large  fresh  oysters  with  a few  cloves,  a 
little  mace  and  nutmeg;  then  add  the  yolk  of  one  egg, 
boiled  hard  and  grated;  add  a little  butter,  and  as 
much  of  the  oyster  liquid  as  will  cover  them.  When 
they  h^ve  stewed  ^ little  whiles  take  them  out  of  the 


50 


THE  EVERYDAY  COOK-BOOK. 


pan  and  set  them  to  cool.  When  quite  cold,  lay  two  os 
three  oysters  in  each  shell  of  puff  paste. 

BROILED  OYSTERS. 

Drain  the  oysters  well  and  dry  them  with  a napkin. 
Have  ready  a griddle  hot  and  well  buttered;  season  the 
oysters;  lay  them  to  griddle  and  brown  them  on  both 
sides.  Serve  them  on  a hot  plate  with  plenty  of  butter. 

CLAM  FRITTERS. 

Take  fifty  small  or  twenty -five  large  sand  clams  from 
their  shells;  if  large,  cut  each  in  two,  lay  them  on  a 
thickly  folded  napkin,  put  a pint  bowl  of  wheat  flout 
into  a basin,  add  to  it  two  well- beaten  eggs,  half  a pint 
of  sweet  milk,  and  nearly  as  much  of  their  own  liquor; 
beat  the  batter  until  it  is  smooth  and  perfectly  free 
from  lumps;  then  stir  in  the  clams.  Put  plenty  of  lard 
or  beef  fat  into  a thick  bottomed  frying  pan,  let  it 
become  boiling  hot;  put  in  the  batter  by  the  spoonful; 
let  them  fry  gently;  when  one  side  is  a delicate  brown, 
turn  the  other. 

SOFT  SHELLED  CLAMS. 

These  are  very  fine  if  properly  prepared.  They  are 
good  only  during  cold  weather  and  must  be  perfectly 
fresh. 

Soft-shelled  clams  may  be  boiled  from  the  shells,  and 
served  with  butter,  pepper  and  salt  over. 

TO  BOIL  SOFT  SHELL  CLAMS. 

Wash  the  shells  clean,  and  put  the  clams,  the  edges 
downwards,  in  a kettle;  then  pour  about  a quart  of 
boiling  water  over  them;  cover  the  pot  and  set  it  over 
a brisk  fire  for  three  quarters  of  an  hour;  pouring  boil- 
ing water  over  them  causes  the  shells  to  open  i^uicklv 
lot  6a«d  tybicti  rna^  he  m thes^. 


Shad  Balla-Carefully  aWnnl 

pint  of  shad  that  *>»  cupfuls  of  hot  mashed 

flaked  with  a fork.  Aoa  t y ^ butter,  a 

potatoes,  two  “gs-  Beat  to  a 

gill  of  cream  the  yott  of  of 

smooth  paste,  a gx  ogide  to  get  cold  and 

eelery  salt  and  paprika  and  set  asld^  to  K 
.tiff.  Form  into  balls,  roll  » crum 

and  are  very  nice).  

Dandelion  Salad-Kck  the 

of  the  ary  and  put  between 

hour.  thoroughly.  Turn  into  a chilled 

b'owl.“SvS  With  a Sf  Messing,  tossing  lightly 
each  leaf,  and  eerve. 

Foam ^Two  cupfuls  of  thick  cream 

Whl“tiff  ana  “«\tup£„",  -ordted  p"l»l 

Se  Inf'a  cn^fu/of^stoned  California  cherries. 
%?ve  cold  in  sherbet  cups. 


stop-over  point?  This  city  represents  one-thiidTI 
the  total  railway  mileage  of  the  country,  and 

e«slert 

Cities,  with  the  exception  of  Pittsburg. 

I am  informed  that  cheap  coach  excursions  are 
being  run  by  some  of  the  railroads  to  the  exposition 
from  points  within  fifty  miles  of  Chicago,  and  thu3 
far  this  privilege  has  been  denied  this  city.  Ifl 
this  is  a fact  the  business  interests  want  to  knoM 
the  reason  for  the  discrimination. 

The  South  Atlantic  and  Mexican  GulJ 
Railw'ay  Company  was  organi25ed  yesterday  a{ 
Savannah,  Ga..  with  a capital  of  $3,000,000,  witil 
the  privilege  of  increasing  it  to  $5,000,000  It  iJ 
proposed  to  construct  a railway  326  miles  in  length J 
beginning  at  Savannah  and  extending  in  a south4 
westerly  direction  thixnigh  Georgia  and  Florida  tcl 
a deep-water  port  on  the  gulf.  Captain  D.  g\ 
I urse  of  Atlanta  is  said  to  have  interested  Chicago! 
capital  in  the  enterprise.  " 

Stockholders  of  the  Mexican  Central  Rail-, 
way  Company  have  formed  a protective  commit- 1 
tee.  consisting  of  William  L.  Bull  as  chairman 
B \ancortIandt  and  Gerald  L.  Hoyt  ofl 


TEE  EVERYDAY  COOEBOOK. 


51 


Take  them  up  when  done,  take  off  the  black  skin 
which  covers  the  hard  part,  trim  them  clean,  and  put 
them  into  a stew-pan ; put  to  them  some  of  the  liquor 
in  which  they  were  boiled  ; put  to  it  a good  bit  of  but- 
ter and  pepper  and  salt  to  taste  , make  them  hot ; serve 
with  cold  butter  and  rolls. 

CLAM  CHOWDEE. 

Butter  a deep  tin  basin,  strew  it  thickly  with  grated 
bread-crumbs,  or  soaked  cracker ; sprinkle  some  pepper 
over  and  bits  of  butter  the  size  of  a hickory  nut,  and, 
if  liked,  some  finely  chopped  parsley  ; then  put  a double 
layer  of  clams,  season  with  pepper,  put  bits  of  butter 
over,  then  another  layer  of  soaked  cracker ; after  that 
clams  and  bits  of  butter ; sprinkle  pepper  over ; add  a 
cup  of  milk  or  water,  and  lastly  a layer  of  soaked 
crackers.  Turn  a plate  over  the  basin,  and  bake  in  a 
hot  oven  for  three-quarters  of  an  hour  ; use  half  a pound 
of  soda  biscuit,  dnd  quarter  of  a s)f  Gutter  with 

fifty  clams. 


63 


THE  EVERYDAY  COOK-BOOK. 


MEATS. 


ROAST  BEEP. 

Prepare  for  the  oven  by  dredging  lightly  with  flour, 
and  seasoning  with  salt  and  pepper ; place  in  the  oven, 
and  baste  frequently  while  roasting.  Allow  a quarter 
of  an  hour  for  a pound  of  meat,  if  you  like  it  rare ; 
longer  if  you  like  it  well  done.  Serve  with  a sauce 
made  from  the  drippings  in  the  pan,  to  which  has  been 
added  a tablespoon  of  Harvey  or  Worcestershire  sauce 
and  a tablespoon  of  tomato  catsup. 

ROUND  OF  BEEF  BOILED. 

See  that  it  is  not  too  large,  and  that  it  is  tightly 
bound  all  round.  About  twelve  pounds  or  fourteen 
pounds  form  a convenient  size,  and  a joint  of  that 
weight  will  require  from  three  hours  to  three  hours 
and  a quarter  to  boil.  Put  on  with  cold  water — as  the 
liquor  is  valuable  for  making  pea-soup— and  let  it  come 
slowly  to  the  boil.  Boil  carefully  but  not  rapidly,  and 
skim  frequently ; as  a rule,  keep  the  lid  of  the  pot  well 
fixed.  The  meat  may  be  all  the  better  if  taken  out 
once  or  twice  in  the  process  of  cooking.  Carrots  and 
turnips  may  be  boiled  to  serve  with  the  round ; they 
will,  of  course,  cook  in  about  a third  of  the  time  neces- 
sary to  boil  the  beef. 

BEEF  SALTED,  OR  CORNED,  RED. 

To  Keep  for  Years. 

Cut  up  a quarter  of  beef.  For  each  hundredweig  t 
take  half  a peck  of  coarse  salt,  quarter  of  a pound  of 
eaUpetre,  the  same  weight  of  saieratus  and  a (juarfrof 


THE  EVERYDAY  COOKBOOK. 


GB 

molasses,  or  two  pounds  of  coarse  brown  sugar.  Mace, 
cloves  and  allspice  may  be  added  for  spiced  beef. 

Strew  some  of  the  salt  in  the  bottom  of  a pickle-tub 
or  barrel ; then  put  in  a layer  of  meat,  strew  this  with 
salt,  then  add  another  layer  of  meat,  and  salt  and  meat 
alternately  until  all  is  used.  Let  it  remain  one  night. 
Dissolve  the  saleratus  and  saltpetre  in  a little  warm 
water,  and  put  it  to  the  molasses  or  sugar ; then  put  it 
over  the  meat,  add  water  enough  to  cover  the  meat,  lay 
a board  on  it  to  keep  it  under  the  brine.  The  meat  is 
fit  for  use  after  ten  days.  This  receipt  is  for  winter 
beef.  Rather  more  salt  may  be  used  in  warm  weather. 

Towards  spring  take  the  brine  from  the  meat,  make 
it  boiling  hot,  skim  it  clear,  and  when  it  is  cooled, 
return  it  to  the  meat. 

Beef  tongues  and  smoking  pieces  are  fine  pickled  in 
this  brine.  Beef  liver  put  in  this  brine  for  ten  days 
and  then  wiped  dry  and  smoked,  is  very  fine.  Cut  it 
in  slices,  and  fry  or  broil  it.  The  brisket  of  beef,  after 
being  corned,  may  be  smoked,  and  is  very  fine  for 
boiling. 

Lean  pieces  of  beef,  cut  properly  from  the  hind 
quarter,  are  the  proper  pieces  for  being  smoked.  There 
may  be  some  fine  pieces  cut  from  the  fore-quarter. 

After  the  beef  has  been  in  brine  ten  days  or  more 
wipe  it  dry,  and  hang  it  in  a chimney  where  wood  is 
burnt,  or  make  a smothered  fire  of  sawdust  or  chips, 
and  keep  it  smoking  for  ten  days ; then  rub  fine  black 
pepper  over  every  part  to  keep  the  flies  from  it,  and 
hang  it  in  a dry,  dark,  cool  place.  After  a week  it  is 
fit  for  use.  A strong,  coarse  brown  paper,  folded 
around  beef,  and  fastened  with  paste,  keeps  it  nicely. 

Tongues  are  smoked  in  the  same  manner.  Hang‘ 
them  by  a string  put  through  the  rc&t  end.  Spiced 
Swine  for  smoked  beef  or  tongues  will  be  generally 


64 


THE  EVERYDAY  COOK-BijOK 


For  convenience  make  a pickle  as  mentioned  fot 
beef,  keep  it  in  the  cellar,  ready  for  pickling  beef  at 
any  time.  Beef  may  remain  in  three  or  four  or  more 
days. 

TO  BOIL  CORNED  BEEP. 

□ Put  the  beef  in  water  enough  to  cover  it,  and  let  it 
heat  slowly  and  boil  slowly,  and  be  careful  to  take  off 
the  grease.  Many  think  it  much  improved  by  boiling 
potatoes,  turnips  and  cabbages  with  it.  In  this  case 
the  vegetables  must  be  peeled  and  all  the  grease  care- 
fully skimmed  as  fast  as  it  rises.  Allow  about  twenty 
minutes  of  boiling  for  each  pound  of  meat. 

A NICE  WAY  TO  SERVE  COLD  BEEP. 

Cut  cold  roast  beef  in  slices,  put  gravy  enough  to 
cover  them,  and  a wineglass  of  catsup  or  wine,  or  a 
lemon  sliced  thin  ; if  you  have  not  gravy,  put  hot 
water  and  a good  bit  of  butter,  with  a teaspoonful  or 
more  of  browned  flour  ; put  it  in  a closely  covered  stew- 
pan,  and  let  it  simmer  gently  for  half  an  hour.  If  you 
choose,  when  the  meat  is  down,  cut  a leak  in  thin  slices, 
and  chop  a bunch  of  parsley  small,  and  add  it ; serve 
boiled  or  mashed  potatoes  with  it.  This  is  equal  to 
beef-a-la-mode. 

Or  cold  beef  may  be  served  cut  in  neat  slices,  gar- 
nished with  sprigs  of  parsley,  and  made  mustard,  and 
tomato  catsup  in  the  castor  ; serve  mashed,  if  not  new 
potatoes,  with  it,  and  ripe  fruit,  or  pie,  or  both,  for 
dessert,  for  a small  family  dinner. 

SPICED  BEEP. 

Four  pounds  of  round  of  beef  chopped  fine;  take 
from  it  all  fat ; add  to  it  three  dozen  small  crackers 
rolled  fine,  four  eggs,  one  onp  of  milk,  one  tablespoon 
ground  mace,  two  tablespoons  of  black  pepper,  one 


TEE  EVERYDAY  COOKBOOK  5i 

tablespoon  melted  butter  ; mix  well  and  put  in  any  tin 
pan  that  it  will  just  fill,  packing  it  well ; baste  with 
butter  and  water,  and  bake  two  hours  in  a slow  oven. 

BROILED  BEEFSTEAK 

Lay  a thick  tender  steak  upon  a gridiron  over  hot 
coals,  having  greased  the  bars  with  butter  before  the 
steak  has  been  put  upon  it  (a  steel  gridiron  with  slender 
bars  is  to  be  preferred,  the  broad  flat  iron  bars  of  grid- 
irons commonly  used  fry  and  scorch  the  meat,  impart- 
ing a disagreeable  flavor).  When  done  on  one  side, 
have  ready  your  platter  warmed,  with  a little  butter  on 
it ; lay  the  steak  upon  the  platter  with  the  cooked  side 
down,  that  the  juices  which  have  gathered  may  run  on 
the  platter,  but  do  not  press  the  meat ; then  lay  your 
beefsteak  again  upon  the  gridiron  quickly  and  cook  the 
other  side.  When  done  to  your  liking,  put  again  on 
the  platter,  spread  lightly  with  butter,  place  where  it 
will  keep  warm  for  a few  moments,  but  not  to  let  the 
butter  become  oily  (over  boiling  steam  is  best);  and  then 
serve  on  hot  plates.  Beefsteak  should  never  be  seasoned 
with  salt  and  pepper  while  cooking.  If  your  meat  is 
tough,  pound  well  with  a steak  mallet  on  both  sides. 

FRIED  BEEFSTEAKS 

Cut  some  of  the  fat  from  the  steak,  and  put  it  in  a 
frying  pan  and  set  it  over  the  fire  ; if  the  steaks  are  not 
very  tender,  beat  them  with  a rolling  pin,  and  when 
the  fat  is  boiling  hot,  put  the  steak  evenly  in,  cover 
the  pan  and  let  it  fry  briskly  until  one  side  is  done, 
sprinkle  a little  pepper  and  salt  over,  and  turn  the  other; 
let  it  be  rare  or  well  done  as  may  be  liked;-  take  the 
steak  on  a hot  dish,  add  a wine^ss  or  less  of  boiling 
water  or  catsup  on  the  gravy  ; let  it  boil  up  once,  and 
pour  it  in  the  dish  with  the  steak. 


6S 


TEB  EVERIDAT  COOK-BOOS 


BEEFSTEAK  PIE. 

Take  some  fine  tender  steaks,  beat  them  a little, 
season  with  a saltspoonful  of  pepper  and  a tablespoon- 
ful of  salt  to  a two-pound  steak ; put  bits  of  butter,  the 
size  of  a hickory  nut,  over  the  whole  surface,  dredge  a 
teaspoonful  of  flour  over,  then  roll  it  up  and  cut  it  in 
pieces  two  inches  long ; put  a rich  pie  paste  around  the 
sides  and  bottom  of  a tin  basin ; put  in  the  pieces  of 
steak,  nearly  fill  the  basin  with  water,  add  a piece  of 
butter  the  size  of  a large  egg,  cut  small,  dredge  in  a 
teaspoonful  of  flour,  add  a little  pepper  and  salt,  lay 
skewers  across  the  basin,  roll  a top  crust  to  half  an  inch 
thickness,  cut  a slit  in  the  center ; dip  your  fingers  in 
flour  and  neatly  pinch  the  top  side  crust  together  all 
around  the  edge.  Bake  one  hour  in  a quick  oven. 

BOILED  LEG  OP  MUTTON. 

Mutton,  water,  salt.  A leg  of  mutton  for  boiling 
should  not  hang  too  long,  as  it  will  not  look  a good 
color  when  dressed.  Cut  oft'  the  shank-bone,  trim  the 
knuckle  and  wash  and  wipe  it  very  clean ; plunge  it 
into  sufficient  boiling  water  to  cover  it ; let  it  boil  up, 
then  di’aw  the  sauce-pan  to  the  side  of  the  fire,  where  it 
should  remain  till  the  finger  can  be  borne  in  the  water. 
Then  place  it  sufficiently  near  the  fire,  the  water  may 
gently  simmer,  and  be  very  careful  that  it  does  not  boil 
fast,  or  the  meat  will  be  hard.  Skim  well,  add  a little 
salt,  and  in  about  two  and  one  quarter  hours  after  the 
water  begins  to  simmer,  a moderate  sized  leg  of  mutton 
will  be  done  Serve  with  carrots  and  mashed  turnips, 
which  may  be  boiled  with  the  meat,  and  send  caper 
sauce  ix)  table  with  it  in  a tureen. 


THE  EVBBSDAS  000&  3U0K.  m 

EOAST  LOIN  OF  MUTTON. 

Loin  of  mutton,  a little  salt.  Cut  and  trim  oif  the 
supperfluous  fat,  and  see  that  the  butcher  joints  the 
meat  properly,  as  thereby  much  annoyance  is  saved  to 
carver,  when  it  comes  to  table.  Have  ready  a nice 
clear  fire  (it  need  not  be  a very  wide,  large  one),  put 
down  the  meat,  dredge  with  flour,  and  baste  well  until 
it  is  done.  ‘ 

BOILED  MUTTON  CHOPS. 

Loin  of  mutton,  peppered  and  salted,  a small  piece  of 
butter.  Cut  the  chops  from  a well  hung,  tender  loin 
of  mutton,  remove  a portion  of  the  fat,  and  trim  them 
into  a nice  shape;  slightly  beat  and  level  them;  place 
the  gridiron  over  a bright,  clear  fire,  rub  the  bars  with 
a little  fat,  and  lay  on  the  chops.  While  broiling, 
frequently  turn  them,  and  in  about  eight  minutes  they 
will  be  done.  Season  with  pepper  and  salt,  dish  them 
on  a hot  dish,  rub  a small  piece  of  butter  on  each  chop, 
and  serve  very  hot  and  expeditiously. 

MUTTON  CHOP  PEIED. 

Cut  some  fine  mutton  chops  without  much  fat,  rub 
over  both  sides  with  a mixture  of  salt  and  pepper,  dip 
them  in  wheat  flour  or  rolled  crackers,  and  fry  in  hot 
lard  or  beef  drippings;  when  both  sides  are  a fine  brown, 
take  them  on  a hot  dish,  put  a wineglass  of  hot  water  in 
the  pan,  let  it  become  hot,  stir  in  a teaspoonful  of 
browned  flour,  let  it  boil  up  at  once,  and  serve  in  the 
pan  with  the  meat. 

ROAST  PORE-QUARTER  OP  LAMB. 

Lamb,  a little  salt.  To  obtain  the  flavor  of  lamb  in 
perfection  it  should  not  be  long  kept,  time  to  cool  is  all 
that  is  required;  and  though  the  meat  may  be  some- 
what thr^y,  the  juices  and  flavor  will  to  innnitdy 


TBE  EVERYDAt  COOK-BOOR. 


superior  to  that  of  lam!)  that  has  been  killed  two  or 
three  days.  Make  up  the  lire  in  good  time,  that  it  may 
be  clear  and  brisk  when  the  joint  is  put  down.  Place 
it  at  sufficient  distance  to  prevent  the  fat  from  burning, 
and  baste  it  constantly  till  the  moment  of  serving. 
Lamb  should  be  very  thoroughly  done  without  being 
dried  up,  and  not  the  slighest  appearance  of  red  gravy 
should  be  visible,  as  in  roast  mutton;  this  rule  is  applic- 
able to  young  white  meats.  Serve  with  a little  gravy 
made  in  the  dripping-pan,  the  same  as  for  other  roasts, 
and  send  to  table  with  a tureen  of  mint  sauce. 

LAMBS’  SWEETBBSJADS. 

Two  or  three  sweetbread,  one-half  pint  of  veal  stock, 
white  pepper  and  salt  to  taste,  a small  bunch  of  green 
onions,  one  blade  of  pounded  mace,  thickening  of  butter 
and  flour,  two  eggs,  nearly  one-pint  of  cream,  one  tea- 
spoonful of  minced  parsley,  a very  little  grated  nutmeg. 

Mode:  Soak  the  sweetbreads  in  lukewarm  water, 
and  put  them  into  a saucepan  with  sufficient  boiling 
water  to  cover  them,  and  let  them  simmer  for  ten 
minutes;  then  take  them  out  and  put  into  cold  water. 
Now  lard  them,  lay  them  in  a stewpan,  add  the  stock, 
seasoning,  onions,  mace,  and  a thickening  of  butter  and 
flour,  and  stew  gently  for  one-quarter  of  an  hour  or 
twenty  minutes.  Beat  up  the  eggs  with  the  cream,  to 
which  add  the  minced  parsley  and  very  little  grated  nut- 
meg. Put  this  to  the  other  ingredients;  stir  it  quite  hot, 
but  do  not  let  it  boil  after  the  cream  is  added,  or  it  will 
curdle.  Have  ready  some  asparagus  tops,  boiled;  add 
these  to  the  sweetbreads,  and  serve. 

Lamb  Steak  dipped  in  eggs,  and  then  in  biscuit  or 
breadcrumbs,  and  fried  until  it  is  brown,  helps  to  make 
variety  for  the  breakfast  table.  With  baked  sweet  pota< 
toes,  good  coffee,  and  buttered  toast  or  corn  muffins^ 
one  nwy  begm  the  day  with  courage^ 


ms  EVERYDAY  COOKSOOJL]  SI 

TO  ROAST  VEAL. 

Rinse  the  meat  in  cold  water;  if  any  part  is  bloody, 
wash  it  off;  make  a mixture  of  pepper  and  salt, 
allowing  a large  teaspoonful  of  salt  and  a saltspoonful 
of  pepper  for  each  pound  of  meat;  wipe  the  meat  dry; 
then  rub  the  seasoning  into  every  part,  shape  it  neatly, 
and  fasten  it  with  skewers,  and  put  it  on  a spit,  or  set 
it  on  a trivet  or  mufBn  rings,  in  a pan;  stick  bits  of 
butter  over  the  whole  upper  surface;  dredge  a little 
flour  over,  put  a pint  of  water  in  the  pan  to  baste  with, 
and  roast  it  before  the  fire  in  a Dutch  oven  or  reflector, 
or  put  it  into  a hot  oven;  baste  it  occasionally,  turn  it 
if  necessary  that  every  part  may  be  done;  if  the  water 
wastes  add  more,  that  the  gravy  may  not  burn;  allow 
fifteen  minutes  for  each  pound  of  meat;  a piece  weigh- 
ing four  or  five  pounds  will  then  require  one  hour,  or 
an  hour  and  a quarter. 

VEAL  CHOPS. 

Cut  veal  chops  about  an  inch  thick;  beat  them  flat 
with  a rolling-pin,  put  them  in  a pan,  pour  boiling 
water  over  them,  and  set  them  over  the  fire  for  five 
minutes;  then  take  them  and  wipe  them  dry;  mix  a 
tablespoonful  of  salt  and  a teaspoonful  of  pepper  for 
each  pound  of  meat;  rub  each  chop  over  with  this, 
then  dip  them,  first  into  beaten  egg,  then  into  rolled 
crackers  as  much  as  they  will  take  up;  then  finish  by 
frying  in  hot  lard  or  beef  drippings;  or  broil  them. 
For  the  broil  have  some  sweet  butter  on  a steak  dish; 
broil  the  chops  until  well  done,  over  a bright,  clear  fire 
of  coals,  (let  them  do  gently  that  they  may  be  well 
done),  then  take  them  on  to  the  butter,  turn  them  care- 
fully once  or  twice  in  it,  and  serve.  Or  dri^  the  chop 


60 


THE  EVERYDAY  COOK-BOOK. 


into  a batter,  made  of  one  egg  beaten  with  half  a 
cup  of  milk  and  as  much  wheat  flour  as  may  be  neces- 
sary. Or  simply  dip  the  chops  without  parboiling  into 
wheat  flour;  make  some  lard  or  beef  fat  hot  in  a frying- 
pan;  lay  the  chops  in,  and  when  one  side  is  a fine  deli- 
cate brown,  turn  the  other.  When  all  are  done,  take 
them  up,  put  a very  little  hot  water  into  the  pan,  then 
put  it  into  the  dish  with  the  chops. 

Or  make  a flour  gravy  thus:  After  flying  them  as 
last  directed,  add  a tablespoonful  more  of  fat  to  that  in 
the  pan,  let  it  become  boiling  hot;  maiie  thin  batter, 
of  a small  teaspoonful  of  wheat  floui  and  cold  water; 
add  a little  more  salt  and  pepper  to  the  gravy,  then 
gradually  stir  in  the  batter;  stir  it  until  it  is  cooked  and 
a nice  brown;  then  put  it  ovei  the  meat,  or  in  the  dish 
with  it;  if  it  is  thieW  than  is  liked,  add  a little  boiling 
water. 

VEAI.  CUTLETS. 

Two  or  three  pounds  of  veal  cutlets,  egg  and  bread 
crumbs,  two  tablespponfuls  of  minced  savoiy  herbs, 
salt  and  pepper  to  taste,  a little  grated  nutmeg. 

Cut  the  cutlets  about  three-quarters  of  an  inch  in 
thickness,  flatten  them,  and  brush  them  over  with  the 
yolk  of  an  egg;  dip  them  into  bread-crumbs  and  minced 
herbs,  season  with  pepper  and  salt  and  grated  nuhn^, 
and  fold  each  cutlet  in  a piece  of  buttered  paper.  Broil 
them,  and  send  them  to  table  mth  melted  butter  or  a 
good  gravy. 

STUFFED  FILLET  OF  VEAL  WITH  BACON. 

Take  out  the  bone  from  the  meat,  and  pin  into  a 
round  with  skewers.  Bind  securely  with  soft  tapes. 
Fill  the  cavity  left  by  the  bone  with  a force-meat  of 
crumbs,  chopped  pork,  thyme,  and  parsley,  seasmied 


THE  EVERTDj^Y  COOKBOOK. 


61 


pepper,  salt,  nutmeg  and  a pinch  of  lemon-peel. 
Cover  the  top  of  the  fillet  with  thin  slices  of  cold 
cooked,  fat  bacon  or  salt  pork,  tying  them  in  place  with 
twines  crossing  the  meat  in  all  direct  ons.  Put  into  a 
pot  with  two  cups  of  boiling  water,  and  cook  slowly 
and  steadily  two  hours.  Undo  the  strings  and  tapes. 
Brush  the  meat  all  over  with  raw  egg,  sift  rolled  crackei- 
thicMy  over  it,  and  set  in  the  oven  for  half  an  hour, 
basting  often  with  gravy  from  the  pot.  When  it  is  well 
browned,  lay  upon  a hot  dish  with  the  pork  about  it. 
Strain  and  thicken  the  gravy,  and  serve  in  a boat. 

If  your  fillet  be  large,  cook  twice  as  long  in  the  pot. 
The  time  given  above  is  for  one  weighing  five  pounds. 

VEAL  CAKE  (a  Convenient  Dish  for  a Picnic). 

A few  slices  of  cold  roast  veal,  a few  slices  of  cold 
ham,  two  hard  boiled  eggs,  two  tablespoonfuls  of  minced 
parsley,  a little  pepper,  good  gravy,  or  stock  No.  109. 

Cut  off  all  the  brown  outside  from  the  veal,  and  cut 
the  eggs  into  thin  slices.  Procure  a pretty  mold;  lay 
veal,  ham,  eggs,  and  parsley  in  layers,  with  a little  pep- 
per between  each,  and  when  the  mold  is  full,  get  some 
stTO’nig  stock,  and  fill  up  the  shape.  Bake  for  one  half- 
hour,  and  when  cold,  turn  it  out. 

VEAL  PIE. 

Cut  a breast  of  veal  small,  and  put  it  in  a stewpan, 
with  hot  water  to  cover  it;  add  to  it  a tablespoonfid  of 
salt,  and  set  it  over  the  fire;  take  off  the  scum  as  it 
rises;  whm  the  meat  is  tender,  turn  it  into  a dish  to 
cool;  take  out  all  the  small  bones,  batter  a tin  or  earthen 
basin  or  pudding-pan,  line  it  with  a pie  paste,  lay  some 
of  the  parboiled  meat  in  to  half  fill  it  ; put  bits  of  butter 
thu  siii»  of  a hickory  nut  all  over  the  meat;  shake  pep- 


THE  EVERYDAY  COOK-BOOE. 

per  over,  dredge  wheat  flour  over  until  it  looks  white; 
then  fill  it  nearly  to  the  top  with  some  of  the  water  in 
which  the  meat  was  boiled;  roll  a cover  for  the  top  of 
the  crust,  puff  paste  it,  giving  it  two  or  three  turns, 
and  roll  it  to  nearly  half  an  inch  thickness;  cut  a slit 
in  the  center,  and  make  several  small  incisions  on  either 
side  of  it;  lay  some  skewers  across  the  pie,  put  the 
crust  on,  trim  the  edges  neatly  with  a knife;  bake  one 
hour  in  a quick  oven.  A breast  of  veal  will  make  two 
two-quart  basin  pies;  half  a pound  of  nice  corned  pork, 
cut  in  thin  slices  and  parboiled  with  the  meat,  will  make 
it  very  nice,  and  very  little,  if  any  butter,  will  be  re- 
quired for  the  pie;  when  pork  is  used,  no  other  salt  will 
be  necessary. 

BOILED  CALF  HEAD  "(without  the  skin). 

Calf’s  head,  water,  a little  salt,  four  tablespoonfuls 
of  melted  butter,  one  tablespoonful  of  minced  parsley, 
pepper  and  salt  to  taste,  one  tablespoonful  of  lemon- 
juice. 

After  the  head  has  been  thoroughly  cleaned,  and  the 
brains  removed,  soak  it  in  warm  water  to  blanch  it. 
Lay  the  brains  also  into  warm  water  to  soak,  and  let 
them  remain  for  about  an  hour.  Put  the  head  into  a 
stewpan,  with  suflBcient  cold  water  to  cover  it,  and 
when  it  boils,  add  a little  salt;  take  off  every  particle 
of  scum  as  it  rises,  and  boil  the  head  until  perfectly 
tender.  Boil  the  brains,  chop  them,  and  mix  with  them 
melted  butter,  minced  parsley,  pepper,  salt,  and  lemon- 
juice  in  the  above  proportion.  Take  up  the  head,  skin 
the  tongue,  and  put  it  on  a small  dish  with  the  brains 
round  it.  Have  ready  some  parsley  and  butter,  smother 
the  head  with  it,  and  the  remainder  send  to  the  table  in 
a tureen.  Bacon,  ham,  pickled  pork,  or  a pig’s  cheek 
are  indispensable  with  calf’s  head.  The  brains  are 
•ometitues  cbo{^)ed  with  hard-boiled  eggs. 


THE  EVERYDAY  COOKBOOK, 


68 


CALF’S  HEAD  CHEESE. 

Boil  a calf’s  head  in  water  enough  to  cover  it,  until 
the  meat  leaves  the  bones,  then  take  it  with  a skimmer 
into  a wooden  bowl  or  tray;  take  from  it  every  particle 
of  bone;  chop  it  small;  season  with  pepper  and  salt;  a 
heaping  teaspoonful  of  salt,  and  a teaspoonful  of  pepper 
will  be  sufficient;  if  liked,  add  a teaspoonful  of  finely 
chopped  sweet  herbs;  lay  a cloth  in  a colander,  put  the 
minced  meat  into  it,  then  fold  the  cloth  clos^  over  it, 
lay  a plate  over,  and  on  it  a gentle  weight.  When  cold 
it  may  be  sliced  thin  for  supper  or  sandwiches.  Spread 
each  slice  with  made  mustard. 

BOILED  CALF’S  FEET  AND  FABSLEY 
BUTTER. 

Two  calf’s  feet,  two  slices  of  bacon,  two  ounces  ot 
butter,  two  tablespoonfuls  of  lemon-juice,  salt  and 
whole  pepper  to  taste,  one  onion,  a bunch  of  savory 
herbs,  four  cloves,  one  blade  of  mace,  water,  parsley 
and  butter. 

Procure  two  white  calf’s  feet;  bone  them  as  far  as  the 
first  joint,  and  put  them  into  warm  water  to  seak  for 
two  hours.  Then  put  the  bacon,  butter,  lemon-juice, 
onion,  herbs,  spices,  and  seasoning  into  a stewpan;  lay 
in  the  feet,  and  pour  in  just  sufficient  water  to  cover  the 
whole.  Stew  gently  for  about  three  hours;  take  out 
the  feet,  dish  them,  and  cover  with  parsley  and  butter. 

The  liquor  they  were  boiled  in  should  be  strained  and 
put  by  in  a clean  basin  for  use;  it  will  be  found  very 
good  as  an  addition  to  gravies,  etc.,  etc. 

CALF’S  LIVER  AND  BACON. 

Two  or  three  pounds  of  liver,  bacon,  pepper  and  salt 
to  taste,  a small  piece  of  butter,  flour,  two  tabiespoon- 
fols  of  lemon-juice,  one-quarter  pint  of  wator. 


(M  THE  EVEBTDAT  COOKBOOK. 

Cat  the  liver  in  thin  slices,  and  cut  as  tfcrf/iy 
slices  of  bacon  ae  there  are  of  liver;  fry  the  bacon  first, 
then  put  that  on  a hot  dish  before  the  fire.  Fry  the 
liver  in  the  fat  which  comes  from  the  bacon,  after  sea- 
soning it  with  pepper  and  salt,  and  dredging  over  it  a 
little  flour.  Turn  the  liver  occasionally  to  prevent  its 
burning,  and  when  done,  lay  it  round  the  ctish  with  a 
piece  of  bacon  between  each.  Pour  away  the  bacon 
fat,  put  in  a small  piece  of  butter,  dredge  in  a little  flour, 
add  the  lemon-juice  and  water,  give  one  boil,  and  pour 
it  in  the  middle  of  the  dish. 

SWEETBREAD. 

Three  sweetbreads,  egg,  and  bread-crumbs,  oiled 
butter,  three  slices  of  toast,  brown  gravy. 

Choose  large  white  sweetbreads;  put  them  into  warm 
water  to  draw  out  the  blood,  and  to  improve  the  color; 
let  them  remain  for  rather  more  than  one  hoar;  then  put 
them  into  boiling  water,  and  allow  them  to  simmer  for 
about  ten  minutes,  which  renders  them  firm.  Take 
them  up,  drain  them,  brush  over  the  egg,  ^rinkle  with 
bread-crumbs;  dip  them  in  egg  again,  and  timn  into 
more  bread-crumbs.  Drop  on  them  a little  oiled  but- 
ter, and  put  the  sweetbreads  into  a moderately  heated 
oven,  and  let  them  bake  for  nearly  three-quarters  of  an 
hour.  Makb  three  pieces  of  toast;  place  the  sweet 
breads  on  the  toast,  and  pour  round,  but  not  over  them, 
a good  brown  gravy. 

EGGED  VEAL  HASH. 

Chop  fine  remnants  of  cold  roast  veal.  Moisten  with 
the  gravy  or  water.  When  hot,  break  into  it  thi’ee  or 
four  eggs,  according  to  quantity  of  veal.  When  the 
^gs  are  cooked,  stir  into  it  a spoonful  of  butter,  and 
ierve  quickly.  If  to  your  ta^te,  shake  in  a little  pars- 
liV.  Should  you  lack  quantity,  half  a cup  of  fine 
bread-crumdfl  are  no  disadvantage. 


THE  EVEBYDAY  COOKBOOK. 


65 


BOAST  BEEF,  WITH  YORKSHIEE 
PUDDING. 

Have  your  meat  ready  for  roasting  on  Saturday, 
always.  Eoast  upon  a grating  of  several  clean  sticks 
(not  pine)  laid  over  the  dripping-pan.  Dash  a cup  of 
boiling  water  over  the  beef  when  it  goes  into  the  oven; 
baste  often,  and  see  that  the  fat  does  not  scorch.  About 
three-quarters  of  an  hour  before  it  is  done,  mix  the 
pudding. 

YOEKSHIRE  PUDDING. 

One  pint  of  milk,  four  eggs,  whites  and  yolks  beaten 
separately;  two  cups  of  flour — prepared  flour  is  best; 
one  teaspoonful  of  salt. 

Use  less  flour  if  the  batter  grows  too  stiflF.  Mix 
quickly;  pour  off  the  fat  from  the  top  of  the  gravy  in 
the  dripping  pan,  leaving  just  enough  to  prevent  the 
pudding  from  sticking  to  the  bottom.  Pour  in  the  bat- 
ter and  continue  to  roast  the  beef,  letting  the  dripping 
fall  upon  the  pudding  below.  The  oven  should  be 
brisk  by  this  time.  Baste  the  meat  with  the  gravy  you 
have  taken  out  to  make  room  for  the  batter.  In  serv- 
ing, cut  the  pudding  into  squares  and  layabout  the  meat 
in  the  dish.  It  is  very  delicious. 

BEEF  HEART  BAKED  OR  ROASTED. 

Cut  a beef  heart  in  two,  take  out  the  strings  from 
the  inside;  wash  it  with  warm  water,  rub  the  inside 
with  pepper  and  salt,  and  fill  it  with  a stuffing  made  of 
bread  and  butter  moistened  with  water,  and  seasoned 
with  pepper  and  salt,  and,  if  liked,  a sprig  of  thy*me 
made  fine;  put  it  together  and  tie  a string  around  it,  rub 
the  outside  with  pepper  and  salt;  stick  bits  of  butter 
oiu  then  dredge  flour  over  and  set  it  on  a trivet,  ox 


86 


THE  EVERYDAY  COOK-BOOK, 


muffin  rings,  in  a dripping-pan;  put  a pint  of  water  in 
to  baste  with,  then  roast  it  before  a hot  fire,  on  in  a hot 
oven;  turn  it  around  and  baste  frequently.  One  hour 
will  roast  or  bake  it;  when  done,  take  it  up,  cut  a 
lemon  in  thick  slices,  and  put  it  in  the  pan  with  a bit  of 
butter,  dredged  in  a teaspoonful  of  flour;  let  it  brown; 
add  a small  teacup  of  boiling  water,  stir  it  smooth,  and 
serve  in  a gravy  tureen. 

BEEP  KIDNEY. 

Cut  the  kidney  into  thin  slices,  flour  them,  and  fry 
of  a nice  brown.  When  done,  make  a gravy  in  the 
pan  by  pouring  away  the  fat,  putting  in  a small  piece 
of  butter,  one-quarter  pint  of  boiling  water,  pepper 
and  salt,  and  a tablespoonful  of  mushroom  catsup.  Let 
the  gravy  just  boil  up,  pour  over  the  kidney,  and 
serve. 

POTTED  BEEF. 

□ Two  pounds  of  lean  beef,  one  tablespoonful  of  water, 
one-quarter  pound  of  butter,  a seasoning  to  taste  of  salt, 
Cayenne,  pounded  mace,  and  black  pepper.  Procure  a 
nice  piece  of  lean  beef,  as  free  as  possible  from  gristle, 
skin,  etc.,  and  put  it  in  a jar  (if  at  hand,  one  with  a 
lid)  with  one  teaspoonful  of  water.  Cover  it  closdy, 
and  put  the  jar  into  a saucepan  of  boiling  water,  let- 
ting the  water  come  within  two  inches  of  the  top  of  the 
jar.  Boil  gently  for  three  and  a half  hours,  then  take 
the  beef,  chop  it  very  small  with  a chopping-knife,  and 
pound  it  thoroughly  in  a mortar  Mix  with  it  by  de- 
grees, all,  or  a portion  of  the  gravy  that  will  have  run 
from  it,  and  a little  clarified  butter;  add  the  seasoning, 
put  it  in  small  pots  for  use,  and  cover  with  a little  but- 
ter just  warmed  and  poured  over.  If  much  gravy  is 
added  to  it,  it  will  keep  but  a shoit  time;  on  the  con- 
trary, if  a large  proportion  of  butter  is  used,  it  may  b© 
preserved  for  some  time. 


THE  EVERYDAY  COOKBOOK. 


m 


BOILED  TONGUE. 

One  tongue,  a bunch  of  savory  herbs,  water.  In 
choosing  a tongue,  ascertain  how  long  it  has  been  dried 
or  pickled,  and  select  one  with  a smooth  skin,  which 
denotes  its  being  young  and  tender.  If  a dried  one, 
and  rather  hard,  soak  it  at  least  for  twelve  hours  pre- 
vious to  cooking  it;  if,  however,  it  is  fresh  from  the 
pickle,  two  or  three  hours  will  be  sufBcient  for  it  to  re- 
main in  soak.  Put  the  tongue  into  a stewpan  with 
plenty  of  cold  water  and  a bunch  of  savory  herbs;  let 
it  gradually  come  to  a boil,  skim  well,  and  simmer  very 
gently  until  tender.  Peel  off  the  skin,  garnish  with 
tufts  of  cauliflowers  or  Brussels  sprouts,  and  serve. 
Boiled  tongue  is  frequently  sent  to  the  table  with  boiled 
poultry,  instead  of  ham,  and  is,  by  many  persons,  pre- 
ferred. If  to  serve  cold,  peel  it,  fasten  it  down  to  a 
piece  of  board  by  sticking  a fork  through  the  root,  and 
another  through  the  top,  to  straighten  it.  When  cold, 
glaze  it,  and  put  a paper  ruche  round  the  root,  and 
garnish  it  with  tufts  of  parsley. 

FRICASSEED  TRIPE. 

Cut  a pound  of  tripe  in  narrow  strips,  put  a small 
cup  of  water  or  milk  to  it,  add  a bit  of  butter  the  size 
of  an  egg,  dredge  in  a large  teaspoonful  of  flour,  or 
work  it  with  the  butter;  seasdn  with  pepper  and  salt, 
let  it  simmer  gently  for  half  an  hour,  serve  hot.  A 
bunch  of  parsley  cut  small  and  put  with  it  is  an  im- 
provement. 

BROILED  TRIPE. 

Prepare  tripe  as  for  frying,  lay  it  on  a gridiron  over 
a clear  fire  of  coals,  let  it  broil  gently;  when  one  side 
is  a fine  brown,  turn  the  other  side  (it  must  b©  nearly 


06 


THE  EVERYDAY  COOKBOOK. 


done  through  before  turning);  take  it  up  on  a hot  dish, 
butter  it,  and  if  liked,  add  a little  catsup  or  vinegar  to 
the  gravy. 

ROAST  RABBIT. 

Empty,  skin,  and  thoroughly  wash  the  rabbit;  wipe 
it  dry,  linej  the  inside  with  sausage-meat  and  force-meat 
(the  latter  of  bread-crumbs,  well-seasoned  and  worked 
up).  Sew  the  stuffing  inside,  skewer  back  the  head  be- 
tween the  shoulders,  cut  off  the  fore  joints  of  the 
shoulders  and  legs,  bring  them  close  to  the  body,  and 
secure  them  by  means  of  a skewer.  Wrap  the  rabbit 
in  buttered  paper,  keep  it  well  basted,  and  a few  minutes 
before  it  is  done  remove  the  paper,  flour  and  froth  it, 
and  let  it  acquire  a nice  brown  color.  It  should  be  done 
in  three-quarters  of  an  hour.  Take  out  the  skewers, 
and  serve  with  brown  gravy  and  red-currant  jelly.  To 
bake  the  rabbit,  proceed  in  the  same  manner  as  above*, 
in  a good  oven  it  will  take  about  the  same  time  as  roast- 
ing. Most  cooks  garnish  the  rabbit  with  slices  of 
lemon  and  serve  up  with  currant  jelly.  Sometimes  the 
head  is  cut  off  before  sending  to  the  table;  but  this  is 
a matter  of  individual  taste. 

STEWED  RABBIT,  Larded. 

One  rabbit,  a few  strips  of  bacon,  rather  more  than 
one  pint  of  good  broth  or  stock,  a bunch  of  savory 
herbs,  salt  and  pepper  to  taste,  thickening  of  butter  and 
flour,  one  glass  of  sherry.  Well  wash  the  i“abbit,  cut 
it  into  quarters,  lard  them  with  slips  of  bacon,  and  fry 
them;  then  put  them  into  a stewpan  with  the  broth, 
herbs,  and  a seasoning  of  pepper  and  salt;  simmer 
gently  until  the  rabbit  is  tender,  then  sti'ain  the  gi'avy, 
thicken  it  with  butter  and  flour,  add  the  sherry,  give 
«ne  boil,  pour  it  over  the  rabbit,  and  serve.  Garnish 
with  slices  of  cut  lemon. 


THE  ENEMY  DAY  COONBOOK. 

FRICASSEED  RABBITS. 


The  best  way  of  cooking  rabbits  is  to  fricassee  them. 
Cut  them  up,  or  disjoint  them.  Put  them  into  a stew^ 
pan;  season  them  with  Cayenne  pepper,  salt  and  some 
chopped  parsley.  Pour  in  a pint  of  warm  water  (or  of 
veal  broth,  if  you  have  it)  and  stew  it  over  a slow  fire 
till  the  rabbits  are  quite  tender;  adding  (when  they  are 
about  half  done)  some  bits  of  butter  rolled  in  flour. 
Just  before  you  take  it  from  the  fire,  enrich  the  gravy 
with  a gill  or  more  of  thick  cream  with  some  nutmeg 
grated  into  it.  Stir  the  gravy  well,  but  take  care  not 
to  let  it  boil  after  the  cream  is  in,  lest  it  curdle.  Put 
the  pieces  of  rabbit  on  a hot  dish,  and  pour  the  gravy 
over  them. 

A PRETTY  DISH  OP  VENISON. 

Cut  a breast  of  venison  in  steaks,  make  quarter  of  a 
pound  of  butter  hot,  in  a pan,  rub  the  steaks  over  with 
a mixture  of  a little  salt  and  pepper,  dip  them  in  wheat 
flour,  or  rolled  crackers,  and  fry  a rich  brown;  when 
both  sides  are  done,  take  them  up  on  a dish,  and  put  a 
tin  cover  over;  dredge  a heaping  teaspoonful  of  flour 
into  the  butter  in  the  pan,  stir  it  with  a spoon  until  it  is 
brown,  without  burning,  put  to  H a small  teacup  of 
boiling  water,  with  a tablespoonful  of  currant  jelly  dis- 
solved into  it,  stir  it  for  a few  minutes,  then  strain  it 
over  the  meat  and  serve.  A glass  of  wine,  with  a table- 
spoonful of  white  sugar  dissolved  in  it,  may  be  used  for 
the  gravy,  instead  of  the  jelly  and  water.  Venison  may 
be  boiled,  and  served  with  boiled  vegetables,  pickled 
beets,  etc.,  and  sauce. 

TO  BOIL  VENISON  STEAK. 

Let  the  gridiron  become  hot,  rub  the  bars  with  a bit 
of  suet,  then  lay  on  the  steaks,  having  dipped  them  in 


70 


THE  EVERYDAY  COOK-BOOK. 


rolled  crackers  or  wheat  flour,  and  set  it  over  a bright, 
clear,  but  not  fierce  fire  of  coals;  when  one  side  is  done, 
take  the  steak  oarefully  over  the  steak  dish,  and  hold  it 
so  that  the  blood  may  fall  into  the  dish,  then  turn  them 
©n  the  gridirom,  let  it  broil  nicely;  set  a steak  dish  where 
it  will  become  hot,  put  on  a bit  of  butter  the  size  of  an 
egg  for  eaeh  pound  of  venison,  put  to  it  a saltspoon  of 
salt,  and  the  same  of  black  pepper,  put  to  it  a table- 
spoonful  of  currant  jelly,  made  liquid  with  a table- 
spoonful of  hot  water  or  wine,  lay  the  steaks  on,  turn 
them  once  or  twice  in  the  gravy,  and  serve  hot.  Or 
they  may  be  simply  broiled,  and  sen’^ed  with  butter, 
pepper,  and  salt;  or  having  broiled  one  side,  and  turned 
the  steaks,  lay  thin  slices  of  lemon  over,  and  serve  in 
the  dish  with  the  steaks. 

BEEFSTEAK  AND  KIDNEY  PUDDING. 

Two  pounds  of  rump-steak,  two  kidneys,  seasoned  to 
taste  of  salt  and  black  pepper,  suet  crust  made  with 
milk  {see  Pastry),  in  the  proportion  of  six  ounces  of 
suet  to  each  one  pound  of  flour. 

Mode:  Procure  some  tender  rump-steak  (that  Avhich 
has  been  hung  a little  time),  and  divide  it  into  pieces 
about  an  inch  square,  and  cut  each  kidney  into  eight 
pieces.  Line  the  dish  (of  which  we  have  given  an  en- 
graving), with  crust  made  with  suet  and  flour  in  the 
above  proportion,  leaving  a small  piece  of  crust  to  over- 
lap the  edge.  Then  cover  the  bottom  with  a portion  of 
the  steak  and  a few  pieces  of  kidney;  season  with  salt 
and  pepper  (some  add  a little  flour  to  thicken  the  gravy, 
but  it  is  not  necessary),  and  then  add  another  layer  of 
steak  kidney,  and  seasoning.  Proceed  in  this  manner 
till  the  dish  is  full,  when  pour  in  suflEicient  water  to 
come  within  two  inches  of  the  top  of  the  basin.  Moisten 
the  edges  of  the  crust,  cover  the  pudding  over,  press 
ithe  two  crusts  together,  that  the  gravy  may  not  es/  ape. 


TEE  EVERYDAY  COOK-BOOK. 


71 


and  turn  up  the  overhanging  paste.  Wring  out  a cloth 
in  hot  water,  flour  it,  and  tie  up  the  pudding;  put  it  into 
boiling  water,  and  let  it  boil  for  at  least  four  hours.  If 
the  water  diminishes,  always  replenish  with  some,  hot 
in  a jug,  as  the  pudding  should  be  kept  covered  all  the 
time,  and  not  allowed  to  stop  boiling.  When  the  cloth 
is  removed,  cut  a round  piece  in  the  top  of  the  crust,  to 
prevent  the  pudding  bursting,  and  send  it  to  tahlo  in 
basin,  either  in  an  ornamental  dish,  or  with  a napkin 
pinned  round  it.  Serve  quickly. 


THE  EVERYDAY  COOK-BOOK. 


n 


BREAKFAST  DISHES, 


HASHED  COLD  MEAT. 

Take  your  bones,  and  stew  them  in  a little  water  with 
an  onion,  some  salt  and  pepper,  and,  if  you  like,  a little 
savory  herbs;  when  the  goodness  is  all  out  of  the  bones, 
and  it  tastes  nice,  thicken  the  gravy  with  a teaspoonful 
of  corn  starch,  and  if  it  is  not  very  strong  put  in  a bit 
of  butter,  then  place  your  stewpan  on  the  hot  hearth, 
and  put  in  your  slices  of  meat.  Wai’m  but  not  boil. 
Serve  with  toasted  bread. 

POTATO  AND  BEEP  HASH. 

Mince  some  cold  beef,  a little  fat  with  the  lean,  put 
to  it  as  much  cold  boiled  potatoes  chopped  as  you  like, 
(the  quantity  as  of  meat  or  twice  as  much),  season  with 
pepper  and  salt;  add  as  much  gravy  or  hot  water  as  will 
make  it  moist,  then  put  in  a stewpan  over  a gentle  fire; 
dredge  in  a small  quantity  of  wheat  flour,  stir  it  about 
with  a spoon,  cover  the  stewpan,  and  let  it  simmer  for 
half  an  hour — take  care  that  it  does  not  burn.  Dish  it 
with  or  without  a slice  of  toast  under  it,  for  breakfast. 
This  hash  may  be  made  without  potatoes,  if  water  is 
used  instead  of  gravy,  a bit  of  butter  may  be  added, 
more  or  less,  according  to  the  proportion  of  fat  with 
the  le^  meat 


THE  EVERYDAY  COOKBOOK. 


78 


DRIED  BEEP. 

The  most  common  way  of  serving  dried  or  smoked 
beef  is  to  shave  it  into  thin  slices  or  chips,  I’aw;  but  a 
more  savory  relish  may  be  made  of  it  with  little 
trouble.  Put  the  slices  of  uncooked  beef  into  a frying 
pan  with  just  enough  boiling  water  to  cover  them;  set 
them  over  the  fire  for  ten  minutes,  drain  off  all  the 
water,  and  with  a knife  and  fork  cut  the  meat  into  small 
bits.  Return  to  the  pan,  which  should  be  hot,  with  a 
tablespoonful  of  butter  and  a little  pepper.  Have 
ready  some  well-beaten  eggs,  allowing  four  to  a half 
pound  of  beef;  stir  them  into  the  pan  with  the  minced 
meat  and  toss  and  stir  the  mixture  for  about  two  min- 
utes. Send  to  table  in  a covered  dish. 

CHICKEN  CUTLETS. 

Season  pieces  of  cold  chicken  or  turkey  with  salt  and 
pepper.  Dip  in  melted  butter;  let  this  cool  on  the 
meat,  and  dip  in  beaten  egg  and  in  fine  bread-crumbs. 
Fry  in  butter  till  a delicate  brown.  Serve  on  slices  of 
hot  toast,  with  either  a white  or  curry  sauce  poured 
around.  Pieces  of  cold  veal  make  a pice  dish,  if  pre- 
pared in  this  manner. 

BEEP  PATTIES. 

Chop  fine  some  cold  beef;  beat  two  eggs  and  mix 
with  the  meat  and  add  a little  milk,  melted  butter,  and 
salt  and  pepper.  Make  into  rolls  and  fry. 

JELLIED  VEAL. 

Boil  the  veal  tender,  pick  it  up  fine,  put  in  a mold, 
add  the  water  it  was  boiled  in,  and  set  it  in  a cold  place; 
season  with  salt  and  pepper  to  taste;  a layer  of  hard- 
boiled  eggs  improves  it. 


74  THE  EVEETDAT  COOK-BOOK. 

RICE  AND  MEAT  CROaUETTES. 

One  cupful  of  boiled  rice,  one  cupful  of  finely- 
chopped  cooked  meat — any  kind;  one  teaspoonful  of 
salt,  a little  pepper,  two  tablespoonfuls  of  butter,  half 
a cupful  of  milk,  one  egg.  Put  the  milk  on  to  boil, 
and  add  the  meat,  rice  and  seasoning.  When  this  boils, 
add  the  egg,  well  beaten;  stir  one  minute.  After  cool- 
ing, shape,  dip  in  egg  and  crumbs,  and  fry  as  before 
directed. 

AMERICAN  TOAST. 

To  one  egg  thoroughly  beaten,  put  one  cup  of  sweet 
milk  and  a little  salt.  Slice  light  bread  and  dip  into 
the  mixture,  allowing  each  slice  to  absorb  some  of  the 
milk;  then  brown  on  a hot  buttered  griddle;  spread  with 
butter,  and  serve  hot. 

MEAT  AND  POTATOES. 

Mince  beef  or  mutton,  small,  with  onions,  pepper 
and  salt,  add  a little  gravy,  })ut  into  scalloped  shells  or 
small  cups,  making  them  three  parts  full,  and  fill  them 
up  Vvilh  potatoes  mashed  with  a little  cream,  put  a bit 
of  butter  on  t!ie  top  and  brown  them  in  an  oven. 

BREADED  SAUSAGES. 

Wipe  the  sausages  dry.  Dip  them  in  beaten  egg  and 
hread-criiinhs.  Put  them  in  the  frying  basket  and 
plunge  into  boiling  fat.  Cook  ten  minutes.  Serve 
with  a garnish  of  toasted  bread  and  parsley. 

HAM  CROQUETTES. 

One  cu})ful  of  finely-choppc  ^ cooked  harn,  one  of 
bread-crumbs,  two  of  hot  mashed  potatoes,  one  large 
tablespoouf  ul  of  butter,  three  eggs,  a speck  of  Cayenne. 


mE  EVERYDAY  COOK-^BOOK, 


75 


Beat  the  bam,  Cajeniie,  butter,  and  two  of  the  eggs 
into  the  potato.  Let  the  mixture  cool  slightly,  and 
shape  it  like  croquettes.  lioll  in  the  bread-erumbs,  dip 
in  beaten  egg  and  again  in  crumbs,  put  in  the  frying- 
basket  and  plunge  into  boiling  ini.  Cook  two  min- 
utes. Drain,  and  serve. 

i 

A NICE  BEEAKFAST  DISH. 

Chopped  cold  meat  well  seasoned ; wet  with  gravy, 
if  convenient,  put  it  on  a platter ; then  take  cold  rice 
made  moist  with  milk  and  one  egg,  seasoned  with  pepper 
and  salt;  if  not  sufficient  rice,  add  powdered  bread- 
crumbs ; place  this  around  the  platter  quite  thick ; set 
in  oven  to  heat  and  brown. 

CHICKEN  IN  JELLY. 

A little  cold  chicken  (about  one  pint),  one  cupful  of 
water  or  stock,  one-fifth  of  a box  of  gelatine,  half  a 
teaspoonful  of  curry  powder,  salt,  pepper.  Cut  the 
meat  from  the  bones  of  a chicken  left  from  dinner. 
Put  the  bones  on  with  w^ater  to  cover,  and  boil  down  to 
one  cupful.  Put  the  gelatine  to  soak  in  one-fourth  of 
a cupful  of  cold  water.  When  the  stock  is  reduced  as 
much  as  is  necessary,  strain  and  season.  Add  the 
curry  and  chicken.  Season  and  simmer  ten  minutes  ; 
then  add  the  gelatine,  and  stir  on  the  table  until  L is 
dissolved.  Turn  all  into  a mold  and  set  away  to  harden. 
This  makes  a nice  relish  for  tea  or  lunch.  If  you  have 
mushrooms,  omit  the  curry  and  cut  four  of  them  into 
dice.  Stir  into  the  mixture  while  cooking.  This  dish 
can  be  varied  by  using  the  whites  of  hard-boiled  eggs, 
or  bits  of  boiled  ham.  To  serve : Dip  the  mold  in 
warm  water,  and  turn  out  on  the  dish.  Garnish  with 
parsley. 


76 


THE  EVERYDAY  COOKBOOK. 


A GOOD  DISH. 

Mince  cold  beef  or  lamb ; if  beef  put  in  a pinch  of 
pulverized  cloves ; if  lamb,  a pinch  of  summer  savory 
to  season  it,  very  little  pepper  and  some  salt,  and  put 
it  in  a baking-dish  ; mash  potatoes  and  mix  them  with 
cream  and  butter  and  a little  salt,  and  spread  them  over 
the  meat ; beat  up  an  egg  with  cream  or  milk,  a very 
little,  spread  it  over  the  potatoes,  and  bake  it  a short 
time,  sufficient  to  wwnj  it  through  and  brown  the 
potatoes. 


TEE  EVERY  DAY  COOK-BOOK. 


W 


POULTRY,  GAME,  ETC. 


In  choosing  poultry,  the  best  way  to  determine 
whether  it  is  young,  is  to  try  the  skin  under  the  leg  or 
wing;  if  it  is  easily  broken  it  is  young;  or  turn  the 
wing  backwards;  if  the  joint  yields  readily,  it  is  tender; 
a fat  fowl  is  best  for  any  purpose. 

After  a chicken  or  fowl  is  killed,  plunge  it  into  a pot 
of  scalding  hot  water;  then  pluck  off  the  feathers, 
taking  care  not  to  tear  the  skin;  when  it  is  picked  clean, 
roll  up  a sheet  of  white  wrapping  paper,  set  fire  to  it, 
singe  off  all  the  hairs.  Poultry  should  be  carefully 
picked  and  nicely  singed. 

If  a fowl  is  fresh  killed  the  vent  will  be  close  and 
the  flesh  have  a pleasant  smell. 

ROAST  TURKEY. 

Carefully  pluck  the  bird,  singe  it  with  white  paper, 
and  wipe  it  throughly  with  a cloth;  draw  it,  preserve 
the  liver  and  gizzard,  and  be  particular  not  to  break  the 
gall-bag,  as  no  washing  will  remove  the  bitter  taste  it 
imparts  where  it  once  touches.  Wash  it  inside  well, 
and  wipe  it  thoroughly  with  a dry  cloth;  the  outside 
merely  requires  wiping  nicely.  Cut  off  the  neck  close 
to  the  back,  but  leave  enough  of  the  crop  skin  to  turn 
over;  break  the  leg  bones  close  below  the  knee;  draw 
out  the  strings  from  the  thighs,  and  flatten  the  breast- 
bone to  make  It  look  plump.  Have  realty  your  dxesskig 


fS  THE  EVEBTDA  Y COOK-BOOR. 

of  bread  crumbs,  mixed  with  butter,  pepper,  salt, 
thyme  or  sweet  marjoram;  fill  the  breast  with  this,  and 
sew  the  neck  over  to  the  back.  Be  particular  thut  the 
turkey  is  firmly  trussed.  Dredge  it  lightly  with  flour, 
and  put  a piece  of  butter  into  the  basting  ladle;  as  the 
butxer  m@lt«,  baste  the  bird  with  it.  When  of  a nice 
brown  and  well  frothed,  serve  with  a tureen  of  good 
brown  gravy  and  one  of  bread  sauce.  The  liver  should 
be  put  under  one  pinion,  and  the  gizzard  under  the  other. 
Fried  sausages  are  a favorite  addition  to  roast  turkey; 
they  make  a pretty  garnish,  besides  adding  much  to  the 
flavor.  When  these  are  not  at  hand,  a few  force-meat 
balls  should  be  placed  round  the  dish  as  a garnish.  Tur- 
key may  also  be  stuffed  with  sausage-meat,  and  a chest- 
nut force-meat  with  the  same  sauce  is,  by  many  persons, 
much  esteemed  as  an  accompaniment  to  this  favorite 
dish. 

Second  Recipe. — After  drawing  and  cleansing  the 
turkey,  prepare  a dressing  of  chopped  sausage  and 
bread  crumbs,  mixing  in  butter,  pepper,  salt  and  thyme 
to  flavor.  Fill  the  craw  and  the  body  of  the  turkey 
with  this,  and  sew  up  carefully.  Dredge  with  flour 
and  put  in  the  oven  to  roast,  basting  freely,  first  with 
butter  and  water,  then  with  the  gravy  fixym  the  pan. 
The  time  it  takes  to  roast  will  depend  both  on  the  age 
and  the  weight  of  the  turkey.  If  you  have  a good  fire, 
you  will  be  safe  to  allow  ten  minutes  or  so  to  the  pound. 
Roast  to  a fine  l)rown,  and  serve  with  the  chopped  gib- 
lets, which  should  be  well  stewed;  add  cranberry  sauce. 

BOILED  TURKEY. 

Hen  turkeys  are  the  best  for  boiling.  They  are  the 
whitest,  and  if  nicely  kept,  tenderest.  Of  course  the 
sinews  must  be  drawn,  and  thej^  ought  to  be  trussed 
with  the  legs  out,  so  as  to  be  easily  carved.  Take  care 


TEE  EVEBYDAT  COOKBOOK.  n 

to  clean  the  animal  well  after  it  has  beMi  singed.  Place 
the  fowl  in  a sufflca^tly  large  pot  with  clean  water  srsf- 
ficientto  cover  it,  and  little  more;  let  the  fire  be  a clear 
one,  but  not  too  fierce,  as  the  slower  the  turkey  boils 
the  plumper  it  will  be.  Skim  carefully  and  constantly, 
and  simmer  for  two  hours  and  a half  in  the  case  of  a 
large  fowl,  and  two  hours  for  a smaller  beast,  and  from 
an  hour  and  ten  to  forty  minutes  for  still  smaller  turkeys. 
Some  people  boil  thdr  turkeys  in  a floured  cloth.  I 
don’t;  the  whiteness  being  mostly  in  the  animal  itself. 
My  stuffing  for  a boiled  turkey  is  thought  good.  I 
prepare  it  of  crumbs  of  stale  bread,  with  a little  mar- 
row or  butter,  some  finely-shred  parsley,  and  two  dozen 
of  small  oysters,  minus  their  beards,  of  course,  and 
neatly  trimmed.  Stuff  with  this  and  a little  chopped 
ham  in  addition,  if  desired. 


TO  ROAST  A FOWL  OR  CHICKEN. 

Have  a bright,  clear,  and  steady  fire  for  roasting 
poultry ; prepare  it  as  dii-ected ; spit  it,  put  a pint  of 
hot  water  in  the  dripping-pan,  add  to  it  a small  table- 
spoonful of  salt,  and  a small  teaspoonful  of  pepper, 
baste  fsequently,  and  let  it  roast  quickly,  without  scorch- 
ing ; when  nearly  done,  put  a piece  of  butter  the  size  of 
a large  egg  to  the  water  in  the  pan  ; when  it  melts, 
baste  with  it,  dredge  a little  flour  over,  baste  again, 
and  let  it  finish  ; half  an  hour  will  roast  a full  grown 
chicken,  if  the  fire  is  right.  When  done  take  it  up, 
let  the  giblets  (heart,  liver,  and  gizzard)  boil  lender, 
and  chop  them  very  fine,  and  put  them  in  the  gravy  ; 
add  a tablespoonful  of  browned'  flour  and  a bit  of  but- 
ter, stir  it  over  the  fire  for  a few  minutes,  then  ser  ve  in 
a gravy  tureen.  Or  put  the  giblets  in  the  pan  and  let 
them  roast. 


60 


THE  EVERYDAY  COOK-BOOS. 


BOILED  CHICKEN. 

Clean,  wash,  and  stuff  as  for  roasting.  Baste  a 
floured  cloth  around  each,  and  put  into  a pot  with 
enough  boiling  water  to  cover  them  well.  The  hot 
water  cooks  the  skin  at  once,  and  prevents  the  escape 
of  the  juices.  The  broth  will  not  be  so  rich  as  if  the 
fowls  are  put  on  in  cold  water,  but  this  is  proof  that 
the  meat  will  be  more  nutritious  and  better  flavored. 
Stew  very  slowly  for  the  first  half  hour  especially. 
Boil  an  nour  or  more,  guiding  yourself  by  size  and 
tonghness.  Serve  with  egg  or  bread  sauce. 


BROILED  CHICKEN. 

Prepare  in  the  same  way  as  for  boiling,  cut  them  in 
two  through  the  back,  and  flatten  them ; place  on  a 
cold  gridiron  over  a nice  red  fire.  After  a little  time, 
when  they  have  become  thoroughly  hot,  set  them  on  a 
plate  or  other  dish,  and  lartl  them  well  with  a piece  of 
butter ; pepper  and  salt  them  to  taste,  chiefly  on  the 
inside,  then  place  them  on  the  brander  and  continue 
turning  till  done — they  will  take  fully  twenty  minutes. 
Serve  hot,  with  a little  dab  of  butter  and  plenty  of 
stewed  mushrooms — a delightful  dish. 


FRIED  CHICKEN. 

Cut  the  chicken  in  pieces,  lay  it  in  salt  and  water, 
which  change  several  times ; roll  each  piece  in  flour ; 
fry  in  very  hot  lard  or  butter ; season  with  salt  and 
pepper ; fry  parsley  with  them  also.  Make  a gravy  of 
cream  seasoned  with  salt,  pepper,  and  a little  mace, 
thickened  with  a little  flour  in  the  pan  in  which  the 
chickens  were  fried,  pouring  off  the  laxd- 


TEE  EVERY  I) A Y COOK-BOOK 


81 


FRICASSEE  OP  CHICKEN. 

Cnt  into  joints,  scald  and  skin,  place  in  a.  stewpan 
with  two  raw  onions  cut  into  eight  parts,  a little  chopped 
parsley,  salt  and  pepper,  and  the  least  squeeze  of 
lemon-juice.  Add  a bit  of  butter  as  large  as  an  egg, 
and  till  in  a pint  of  water.  Stew  for  an  hour  under  a 
very  close  lid,  then  lift  and  strain  off  the  gravy,  into 
which  beat,  gradually  a teacupful  of  cream  and  the  yolks 
of  two  eggs;  heat  up  the  gravy,  taking  care  that  it  does 
' lot  boil,  and  pour  it  over  the  fricpossee. 

TO  CURRY  CHICKEN. 

Slice  an  onion  and  brown  in  a little  butter;  add  a 
spoonful  of  curry  powdei-;  allovv  it  to  remain  covered 
for  a few  minutes  to  cook;  add  a little  more  butter  and 
put  in  chicken,  veal,  etc.;  cut  up  small,  thicken  with  a 
little  flour.  This  is  excellent. 

PRESSED  CHICKEN. 

Cut  up  the  fowls  and  place  in  a kettle  with  a tight 
cover,  so  to  retain  the  steam;  put  about  two  teacups  of 
water  and  plenty  of  salt  and  pepper  over  the  chicken, 
then  let  it  cook  until  the  meat  cleaves  easily  from  the 
bones;  cut  or  chop  all  the  meat  (freed  from  skin,  bone 
and  gristle)  about  as  for  chicken  salad;  season  well,  put 
into  a dish  and  pour  the  remnant  of  the  juice  in  which 
it  was  cooked  over  it.  This  will  jelly  when  cold,  and 
can  then  be  sliced  or  set  on  the  table  in  shape.  Nice  for 
tea  or  lunch.  The  knack  of  making  this  simple  dish  is 
not  having  too  much  water;  it  will  not  jelly  if  too  weak, 
or  if  the  water  is  allowed  to  boil  away  entirely  while 


02 


TEE  EVERYDAY  COOK-BOOK, 


CHICKEN  POT-PIE. 

Skin  and  out  up  the  fowls  into  joints,  and  put  the 
neck,  legs  and  back  bones  in  a stew  pan,  with  a little 
water,  an  onion,  a bunch  of  savory  he rl^s,  and  a blade  of 
mace;  let  these  stew  for  an  hour,  and,  when  done,  strain 
oif  the  liquor;  this  is  for  gravy.  Put  a layer  of  fowl  at 
the  bottom  of  a pie  dish,  then  a layer  of  ham,  then  one 
of  force-meat  and  hard  boiled  eggs,  cut  in  rings;  between 
the  layers  put  a seasoning  of  j)oanded  mace,  nutmeg, 
pepper  and  salt.  Pour  in  about  half  a pint  of  water, 
border  the  edge  of  d isli  wit  h putf-crust,  puit  on  the  cover, 
ornament  the  top  and  glaze  it  by  brushing  over  it  the 
yolk  of  an  egg.  Bake  for  about  an  hour  and  a half, 
and  when  done,  pour  in  at  toj:  the  gravy  made  from 
the  bones. 

CHICKEN  SALAD. 

Take  a fine  v/hite  bunch  of  celery  (four  or  five  heads), 
scrape  and  wash  it  white;  reserve  the  delicate  green 
leaves;  shred  the  white  part  like  straws,  lay  this  in  a 
glass,  or  white  china  dish,  in  the  form  of  a nest.  Mince 
all  the  white  meat  of  a boiled,  or  white  stewed  fowl, 
without  the  skin,  and  put  it  in  the  nest. 

Make  a salad  dressing  thus:  Rub  the  yolks  of  two 
hardboiled  eggs  to  a smooth  paste,  with  a dessertspoon- 
fill  of  made  mustard,  and  a small  teaspoonful  of  fine 
white  sugar,  and  put  to  it  gradually  (stiring  it  in)  a 
large  cup  of  strong  vineger. 

Make  a wreath  of  the  most  delicate  leaves  of  the  ceier} , 
around  the  edge  of  the  nest,  between  it  and  the  chicken; 
pour  the  dressing  over  the  chicken,  when  ready  to  serve; 
if  the  dressing  is  poured  over  too  soon  it  will  discolor 
the  celery. 

White  heart  lettuce  may  be  used  for  the  nest  instead 
of  celery. 


TEE  EVERYDAY  COOK-BOOK.  83 


JELLIED  CHICKEN. 

Boil  a fowl  until  it  will  slip  easily  from  the  bones  > 
let  the  water  be  reduced  to  about  one  pdijt  in  boiling  ; 
pick  the  meat  from  the  bones  in  good  sized  pieces,  tak- 
ing out  all  gristle,  fat  and  bones  ; place  in  a wet  mold  ; 
skim  the  fat  from  the  liquor ; a little  butter ; p^per 
and  salt  to  the  taste,  and  one-half  ounce  of  gelatine. 
When  this  dissolyes,  pour  it  hot  over  the  chicken.  The 
liquor  must  be  seasoned  pretty  high,  for  the  chicken 
absorbes. 

CHICKEN  PATES. 

Mince  chicken  that  has  been  previously  roasted  or 
boiled,  and  season  well  ; stir  into  this  a sauce  made  of 
half  a pint  of  milk,  into  which  while  boiling  a teaspoon- 
fill  of  corn  starch  has  been  added  to  thicken,  season 
with  butter,  about  a teaspoonful,  and  salt  and  pepper 
to  taste.  Have  ready  small  pate  pans  lined  with  a 
good  puff  paste.  Bake  the  crust  in  a brisk  oven  ; then 
fill  the  pans  and  set  in  the  oven  a few  minutes  to  brown 
very  slightly. 

SAGE  AND  ONION  STUPEIFG,  FOR 
GEESE,  DUCKS  AND  PORK. 

Four  large  onions,  ten  sage-leaves,  one-quarter  pound 
of  breacbcrumbs,  one  and  one-half  ounce  of  butter,  salt 
and  peppr  to  taste,  one  egg.  I eel  the  onions,  put 
them  iiito  boiling  water,  let  them  simmer  for  five  min- 
utes or  rather  longer,  and,  just  before  they  are  taken 
out,  pul  in  the  sage-leaves  for  a minute  or  two  to  take 
^ rawness^  Chop  both  these  yery  sudd 


84 


THE  EVERYDAF  COOK-BOOK. 


bread,  seasoning  and  butter,  and  work  the  whole 
together  with  the  yolk  of  an  egg,  when  the  stuffing  will 
be  ready  for  use.  It  should  be  rather  highly  seasoned, 
and  the  sage-leaves  should  be  very  finely  chopped. 
Many  cooks  do  not  parboil  the  onions  in  the  manner 
just  stated,  but  merely  use  them  raw.  The  stuffing 
then,  however,  is  not  nearly  so  mild,  and,  to  many 
tastes,  its  strong  flavor  would  be  very  objectionable. 
When  made  for  goose,  a portion  of  the  liver  of  the 
bird,  simmered  for  a few  minutes  and  very  finely 
minced,  is  frequently  added  to  this  stuffing ; and  where 
economy  is  studied,  the  egg  may  be  dispensed  with. 

TO  ROAST  A GOOSE. 

Haying  drawn  and  singed  the  goose,  wipe  out  the 
inside  with  a cloth,  and  sprinkle  in  some  pepper  and 
salt.  Make  a stuffing  of  four  good-sized  onions,  minced 
fine,  and  half  their  quantity  of  green  sage-leaves,  minced 
also,  a large  teacupful  of  grated  bread-crumbs,  a piece 
of  butter  the  size  of  a walnut,  and  the  beaten  yolks  of 
two  eggs,  with  a little  pepper  and  salt.  Mix  the  whole 
together,  and  incorporate  them  well.  Put  the  stuffing 
into  the  goose,  and  press  it  in  hard  ; but  do  not  entirely 
fill  up  the  cavity,  as  the  mixture  will  swell  in  cooking. 
Tie  the  goose  securely  round  with  a greased  or  wetted 
string  ; and  paper  the  breast  to  prevent  it  from  scorch- 
ing. The  fire  must  be  brisk  and  well  kept  up.  It  will 
require  from  two  hqurs  to  two  and  a half  to  roast. 
Baste  it  at  first  with  a little  salt  and  water,  and  then 
with  its  own  gravy.  Take  off  the  paper  when  the  goose 
is  about  half  done,  and  dredge  it  with  a little  flour 
towards  the  last.  Ha\ing  parboiled  the  liver  and  heart, 
chop  them  and  put  them  into  the  gravy,  which  must  be 
skimmed  well  and  thickened  with  a little  brown  flour, 

Send  apple  sauce  to  table  with  the  goose ; also  mashed 
potatoes. 


THE  &VERTDAY  COOK-BOOK. 


A goose  may  be  staffed  entirely  with  potatoes,  boiled 
and  mashed  with  milk,  butter,  pepper  and  salt. 

You  may  make  a gravy  of  the  giblets,  that  is  the 
neck,  pinions,  liver,  heart  and  gizzard,  stewed  in  a little 
water,  thickened  with  butter,  rolled  in  flour,  and  seasoned 
with  pepper  and  salt.  Before  you  send  it  to  table,  take 
out  all  but  the  liver  and  heai-t;  mince  them  and  leave 
them  in  the  gravy.  This  gravy  is  by  many  preferred 
to  that  wiiich  comes  from  the  goose  in  roasting.  It  is 
well  to  have  both. 

If  a goose  is  old  it  is  useless  to  cook  it,  as  when  hard 
and  tough  it  cannot  be  eaten. 

BOAST  DUCKS. 

Wash  and  dry  the  ducks  carefully.  Make  a stuffing 
of  sage  and  onion;  insert,  and  sew  up  completely  that 
the  seosoning  may  not  escape.  If  tender,  ducks  do 
not  require  more  than  an  hour  to  roast.  Keep  them 
well  basted,  and  a few  minutes  before  serving,  dredge 
lightly  with  flour,  to  make  them  froth  and  look  plump. 
Send  to  table  hot,  with  a good  brown  gravy  poured  not 
round  but  over  them.  Accompany  wdth  currant  jelly, 
and  if  in  season,  green  peas. 

BOAST  PIGEONS. 

Clean  the  pigeons,  and  stuff  them  the  same  as 
chickens;  leave  the  feet  on,  dip  them  into  scalding 
water,  strip  off  the  skin,  cross  them,  and  tie  them  to- 
gether below  the  breast  bone;  or  cut  them  off;  the  head 
may  remain  on;  if  so,  dip  it  in  scalding  water,  and 
pick  it  clean;  twist  the  wings  back,  put  the  livei'  be- 
tween the  right  wing  and  the  body,  and  turn  the  head 
under  the  other;  rub  the  outside  of  each  bird  with  a 
mixture  of  pepper  and  salt;  spit  them,  and  put  some 
water  in  ^e  dripping-pan;  for  each  bird  put  a bit  of 


8fl  THE  EVEBTDAT  COOK-BOOK. 

butter  the  size  of  a small  egg,  put  them  before  a hot 
fire,  and  let  them  roast  quickly;  baste  frequently;  half 
an  hour  will  do  them;  when  nearly  done,  dredge  them 
with  wheat  flour  and  baste  with  the  butter  in  the  pan; 
turn  them,  that  they  may  be  nicely  and  easily  browned; 
v/hen  done,  take  them  up,  set  the  pan  over  the  fire, 
make  a thin  batter  of  a teaspoonful  of  wheat  flour  and 
cold  water;  when  the  gravy  is  boiling  hot,  stir  it  in  for 
a few  minutes,  until  it  is  brown,  then  pour  it  through  a 
gravy  sieve  into  a tureen,  and  serve  with  the  pigeons. 

TO  MAKE  A BIRO’S  NEST. 

Boil  some  yellow  macaroni  gently,  until  it  is  quite 
swelled  out  and  tender,  then  cut  it  in  pieces,  the  length 
of  a finger,  and  lay  them  on  a dish  like  a straw  nest. 

Truss  pigeons  with  the  heads  on  (having  scalded  and 
picked  them  clean),  turmed  under  the  left  wing,  leave 
the  feet  on,  and  having  stewed  them,  arrange  them  as  in 
a nest;  pour  the  gravy  over  and  serve. 

The  nest  may  be  made  of  boiled  rice,  or  bread  cut 
in  pieces,  the  length  and  thickness  of  a finger,  and 
fried  a nice  brown  in  hot  lard,  seasoned  with  pepper 
and  salt.  Or,  make  it  of  bread,  toasted  a yellow 
brown.  Any  small  birds  may  be  stewed  or  roasted, 
and  served  in  this  way. 

PIGEONS  IN  JELLY. 

Wash  and  truss  one  dozen  pigeons.  Put  them  /n  a 
kettle  with  four  pounds  of  the  shank  of  veal,  six  cloves, 
twenty-five  pepper-corns,  an  onion  that  has  been  fried 
in  one  teaspoonful  of  butter,  one  stalk  of  celery,  a 
bouquet  of  sweet  herbs  and  four  and  a half  quarts  of 
water.  Have  the  veal  shank  broken  in  small  pieces. 
As  soon  as  the  contents  of  the  kettle  come  to  a boil, 
skim  carefully,  and  set  for  three  houi-s  whei-e  they  will 
just  simmer.  After  they  have  been  cooking  one  hour, 


THE  EYEBYDAT  COOK-BOOK. 


87 


add  two  tablespoonfuls  of  salt,  When  the  pigeons  are 
done,  take  them  up,  being  careful  not  to  break  them, 
and  remove  the  strings.  Draw  the  kettle  forward, 
where  it  will  boil  rapidly,  and  keep  there  for  forty  min- 
utes; then  strain  the  liquor  through  a napkin,  and  taste 
to  see  if  seasoned  enough.  The  water  should  have 
boiled  down  to  two  and  a half  quarts.  Have  two  molds 
that  will  each  hold  six  pigeons.  Put  a thin  layer  of  the 
jelly  in  these,  and  set  on  ice  to  harden.  When  hard, 
arrange  the  pigeons  in  them,  and  cover  with  the  jelly, 
which  must  be  cold,  but  liquid.  Place  in  the  ice-chest 
for  six,  or,  better  still,  twelve  hours.  There  should  be 
only  one  laj^er  of  the  pigeon  in  the  mold. 

To  serve:  Dip  the  mold  in  a basin  of  warm  water 
for  one  minute,  and  turn  on  a cold  dish.  Garnish  with 
pickled  beets  and  parsley.  A Tartare  sauce  can  be 
served  with  this  dish. 

If  squabs  are  used,  two  hours  will  cook  them.  All 
small  birds,  as  well  as  partridge,  grouse,  etc. , can  be 
prepared  in  the  same  manner.  Remember  that  the  bird? 
must  be  cooked  tender,  and  that  the  liquor  must  be  sft. 
reduced  that  it  will  become  jellied. 

PIGEON  PIE. 

Clean  and  truss  three  or  four  pigeons,  rub  the  ouk^dde 
and  in  with  a mixture  of  pepper  and  salt;  rub  the  inside 
with  a bit  of  butter,  and  fill  it  with  a bread-and-butter 
stuffing,  or  mashed  potatoes;  sew  up  the  slit,  butter  the 
sides  of  a tin  basin  or  pudding-dish,  and  line  (the  sides 
only)  with  pie  paste,  rolled  to  quarter  of  an  inch  thick- 
ness; lay  the  birds  in;  for  three  large  tame  pigeons,  cut 
quarter  of  a pound  of  sweet  butter  and  put  it  over  them, 
strew  over  a large  teaspoonful  of  salt,  and  a small  tea- 
spoonful of  pepper,  with  a bunch  of  finely-cut  parsley, 
if  liked;  dredge  a large  tablespoonful  of  wheat  flour 
over;  put  in  water  to  nearly  &ll  the  pie;  lay  skewers 


88 


THE  EVERTDAT  COOKBOOK. 


across  the  top,  cover  with  a puff  paste  crust;  cut  a slit 
in  the  middle,  ornament  the  edge  with  leaves,  braids,  or 
shells  of  paste,  and  put  it  in  a moderately  hot  or  quick 
oven,  for  one  hour;  when  nearly  done,  brush  the  top 
over  with  the  yolk  of  an  egg  beaten  with  a little  milk, 
and  finish.  The  pigeons  for  this  pie  may  be  cut  in  two 
or  more  pieces,  if  preferred. 

Any  small  bird  may  be  done  in  this  manner. 

WILD  DUCKS. 

Nearly  all  wild  ducks  are  liable  to  have  a fishy  flavor, 
and  when  handled  by  inexperienced  cooks,  are  some- 
times uneatable  from  this  cause.  Before  roasting  them 
guard  against  this  by  parboiling  them  with  a small  car- 
rot, peeled,  put  within  each.  This  will  absorb  the  un- 
pleasant taste.  An  onion  will  have  the  same  effect;  but 
unless  you  mean  to  use  onion  in  the  stuffing,  the  carrot 
is  preferable.  In  my  own  kitchen,  I usually  put  in  the 
onion,  considering  a suspicion  of  garlic  a desideratum 
in  roast  duck,  whether  wild  or  tame. 

BOAST  WILD  DUCK. 

Parboil  as  above  directed;  throw  away  the  carrot  or 
onion,  lay  in  fresh  water  half  an  hour;  stuff  with  bread- 
crumbs seasoned  with  pepper,  salt,  sage,  and  onion,  and 
roast  until  brown  and  tender,  basting  for  half  the  time 
with  butter  and  water,  then  with  the  drippings.  Add  to 
the  gravy,  when  you  have  taken  up  the  ducks,  a tea- 
spoonful of  currant  jelly,  and  a pinch  of  Cayenne., 
Thicken  with  browned  flour  and  serve  in  a tureen. 

WILD  TURKEY. 

Draw  and  wash  the  inside  very  carefully,  as  with  all 
game.  Domestic  fowls  are,  or  should  be,  kept  up  with- 


THE  EVERYDAY  COOK-BOOK 


89 


out  eating  for  at  least  twelve  hours  before  they  are 
killed;  but  we  must  shoot  wild  when  we  can  get  the 
chance,  and  of  course  it  often  happens  that  their  crops 
are  distended  by  a recent  hearty  meal  of  rank  or  green 
food.  Wipe  the  cavity  with  a dry,  soft  cloth  before 
you  stuff.  Have  a rich  force-meat,  bread-crumbs,  some 
bits  of  fat  pork,  chopped  fine,  pepper  and  salt.  Moisten 
with  milk,  and  beat  in  an  egg  and  a couple  of  table- 
spoonfuls  of  melted  butter.  Baste  with  butter  and 
water  for  the  first  hour,  then  three  or  four  times  with 
gravy;  lastly,  five  or  six  times  with  melted  butter.  A 
generous  and  able  housekeeper  told  me  once  that  she 
always  allowed  a pound  of  butter  for  basting  a large 
wild  turkey.  This  was  an  extravagant  quantity,  but 
the  meat  is  drier  than  that  of  the  domestic  fowl,  and  not 
nearly  so  fat.  Dredge  with  flour  at  the  last,  froth  with 
butter,  and  when  he  is  of  a tempting  brown,  serve. 
Skim  the  gravy,  add  a little  hot  water,  pepper,  thicken 
with  the  giblets  chopped  fine  and  browned  flour,  boil  up, 
and  pour  into  a tureen.  At  the  South  the  giblets  are 
not  put  in  the  gravy,  but  laid  whole,  one  under  each 
wing,  when  the  turkey  is  dished.  Garnish  with  small 
fried  sausages,  not  larger  than  a dollar,  crisped  parsley 
between  them.  Send  around  currant  jelly  and  cran- 
berry sauce  with  it. 

TO  ROAST  SNIPES,  WOODCOCKS  OR 
PLOVERS. 

Pick  them  immediately;  wipe  them,  and  season  them 
slightly  with  pepper  and  salt.  Cut  as  many  slices  of 
bread  as  you  have  birds.  Toast  them  brown,  butter 
them,  and  lay  them  in  the  pan.  Dredge  the  birds 
with  flour  and  put  them  in  the  oven  with  a brisk  fire. 
Baste  them  with  lard  or  fresh  butter.  They  will  be. 
done  in  twenty  or  thirty  minutes.  Serve  them  up  laid 
on  the  toast,  and  garnish  with  sliced  orange,  or  with 
orange  jelly. 


90 


TEE  EVERYDAY  COOKBOOK. 


ROAST  PARTRIDGE. 

Ihoose  young  birds,  with  dark-colored  bills  and  yel- 
iotf  ish  legs,  and  let  them  hang  a few  days,  or  there  will 
be  iao  flavor  to  the  flesh,  nor  will  it  be  tender.  The 
time  they  should  be  kept  entirely  depends  on  the  taste 
of  those  for  whom  they  are  intended,  as  what  some 
persons  would  consider  delicious,  would  be  to  others 
disgusting  and  offensive.  They  may  be  trussed  with  or 
without  the  head,  the  latter  mode  is  now  considered 
the  most  fashionable.  Pluck,  draw  and  wipe  the  par- 
tridge carefully  inside  and  out;  cut  off  the  head,  leaving 
suMcient  skin  on  the  neek  to  skewer  back;  bring  the 
legs  close  to  the  breast,  between  it  and  the  side-bones, 
anM  pass  a skewer  through  the  pinions  and  thick  part  of 
the  thighs.  When  the  head  is  left  on,  it  should  be 
brought  round  and  flxed  on  to  the  point  of  the  skewer. 
Wken  the  bird  is  firmly  and  plumply  trussed,  roast  it 
befi^re  a nice  bright  fire;  keep  it  well  basted,  and  a few 
misutes  before  serving,  flour  and  froth  it  well.  Dish 
it,  and  serve  with  gravy  and  bread-sauce,  and  send  to 
tabi'e  hot  and  quickly.  A little  of  the  gravy  should  be 
poured  over  the  bird. 

ROAST  QUAIL. 

Plucfc’and  draw  the  birds,  rub  a little  butter  over 
them,  tie  a strip  of  bacon  over  the  breasts,  and  set  them 
in  the  oven  for  twenty  or  twenty-five  minutes. 

ROAST  PRAIRIE  CHICKEN. 

The  bird  being  a little  strong,  and  its  flesh  when 
cooked  a little  dry,  it  should  be  either  larded  or  wide 
strips  of  bacon  or  pork  placed  over  its  breast.  A mild 
seasoned  stuffing  will  improve  the  flavor  of  old  birds. 
Dust  a little  flour  over  them,  baste  occasionally,  and 
serve.  Pheasants  may  be  managed  in  the  same  mannero 


THE  EVEBYDAT  COOK-BOOK. 


91 


LARDED  GROUSE. 

Clean  and  wash  the  grouse.  Lard  the  breast  and 
tegs.  Put  a small  skewer  into  the  legs  and  through  the 
tail.  Tie  firmly  with  twine.  Dredge  with  salt,  and 
rub  the  breast  with  soft  butter;  then  dredge  thickly 
with  flour.  Put  into  a quick  oven.  If  to  be  very  rare, 
cook  twenty  minutes;  if  wished  better  done,  thirty 
minutes.  The  former  time,  as  a general  thing,  suits 
gentlemen  better,  but  thirty  minutes  is  pi’eferred  by 
ladies.  If  the  birds  are  cooked  in  a tin-kitchen,  it 
should  be  for  thirty  or  thirty-five  minutes.  When  done, 
place  on  a hot  dish,  on  which  has  been  spread  bread- 
sauce.  Sprinkle  fried  crumbs  over  both  grouse  and 
sauce.  Garnish  with  parsley.  The  grouse  may,  in- 
stead, be  served  ^n  a hot  dish,  with  the  parsley  garnish, 
and  the  sauce  and  crumbs  served  in  separate  dishes. 
The  first  method  is  the  better,  however,  as  you  get  in 
the  sauce  all  the  gravy  that  comes  from  the  birds. 

PORK,  HAM,  ETC. 

To  Choose  Poek. — If  the  rind  of  pork  is  tough  and 
thick,  and  cannot  easily  be  impressed  with  the  finger, 
it  is  old. 

If  fresh,  the  flesh  will  look  cool  and  smooth;  wh^ 
moist  or  clammy  it  is  stale.  The  knuckle  is  the  first  to 
become  tainted. 

Pork  is  often  what  is  called  measly,  and  is  then  al- 
most poisonous;  measly  pork  may  easily  be  detected, 
the  fat  being  full  of  small  kernels.  Svdll  or  still-fed 
pork  is  not  fit  for  curing;  either  dairy  or  corn-fed  is 
good. 

Fresh  pork  is  in  season  from  October  to  April. 

In  cutting  up  a large  hog,  it  is  first  cut  in  two  down 
the  back  and  belly.  The  chine  or  back  bone  should  be 
cut  out  from  each  side  the  whole  length,  and  is  either 


TEE  EVERIDAY  COOK-BOOK. 


93 

boiled  or  roasted.  The  chine  is  considered  the  prime 
part.  The  sides  of  the  hog  are  made  into  bacon,  and 
the  inside  or  ribs  is  cut  with  very  little  meat. 

CURING  HAMS. 

Hang  up  the  hams  a week  or  ten  days,  the  longer 
the  tenderer  and  better,  if  kept  perfectly  sweet;  mix 
for  each  good-sized  ham,  one  teacup  of  salt,  one  table- 
spoon of  molasses,  one  ounce  of  saltpetre;  lay  the  hams 
in  a clean  dry  tub;  heat  the  mixture  and  rub  well  into 
the  hams,  especially  around  the  bones  and  recesses;  re- 
peat the  process  once  or  twice,  or  until  all  the  mixture 
is  used;  then  let  the  hams  lie  two  or  three  days,  when 
they  must  be  put  for  three  weeks  in  brine  strong 
enough  to  bear  an  egg;  then  soak  eight  hours  in  cold 
water;  hang  up  to  dry  in  the  kitchen  or  other  more 
convenient  place  for  a week  or  more;  smoke  from  three 
to  five  days,  being  careful  not  to  heat  the  hams.  Corn- 
cobs and  apple-tree  wood  trees  are  good  for  smoking. 
The  juices  are  better  retained  if  smoked  with  the  hock 
down.  Tie  up  carefully  in  bags  for  the  summer. 

TO  ROAST  A LEG  OP  PORK. 

Take  a sharp  knife  and  score  the  skin  across  in  nar- 
row strips  (you  may  cross  it  again  so  as  to  form 
diamonds)  and  rub  in  some  powdered  sage.  Raise  the 
skin  at  the  knuckle  and  put  in  a stuffing  of  minced 
onion  and  sage,  bread-crumbs,  pepper,  salt,  and  beaten 
yolk  of  egg.  Fasten  it  down  with  a buttered  string, 
or  skewers.  You  may  make  deep  incisions  in  the  meat 
of  the  large  end  of  the  leg,  and  stuff  them  also,  press- 
ing in  the  filling  very  hard.  Rub  a little  sweet  oil  all 
over  the  skin  with  a brush  or  a goose  feather,  to  make 
it  crisp  and  of  a handsome  brown.  A leg  of  pork  will 
require  from  three  to  four  hours  to  roast.  Moisten 


TEE  EVERT  DAY  COOK-BOOK.  93 

it  all  the  time  by  brushing  it  with  sweet  oil,  or  with 
fresh  butter  tied  in  a rag.  To  baste  it  with  its  own 
drippings  will  make  the  skin  tough  and  hard.  Skim 
the  fat  carefully  from  the  gravy,  which  should  be  thick- 
ened with  a little  flour. 

A roast  leg  of  pork  should  always  be  accompanied 
by  apple  sauce,  and  by  mashed  potatoes  and  mashed 
turnips. 

PORK  AND  BEANS. 

Pick  over  carefully  a quart  of  beans  and  let  them  soak 
over  night;  in  the  morning  wash  and  drain  in  another 
water,  put  on  to  boil  in  cold  water  with  half  a teaspoon 
of  soda;  boil  about  thirty  minutes  (when  done,  the  skin 
of  a bean  will  crack  if  taken  out  and  blown  upon), 
drain,  and  put  in  an  earthen  pot  first  a slice  of  pork  and 
then'  the  beans,  with  two  or  three  tablespoons  of 
molasses.  When  the  beans  are  in  the  pot,  put  in  the 
centre  half  or  three-fourths  of  a pound  of  well- washed 
salt  pork  with  the  rind  scored  in  slices  or  squares,  and 
uppermost;  season  with  pepper  and  salt  if  needed; 
cover  all  over  with  hot  water,  and  bake  six  hours  ot 
longer  in  a moderate  oven,  adding  hot  water  as  needed; 
they  cannot  be  baked  too  long.  Keep  covered  so  that 
they  will  not  burn  on  the  top,  but  remove  cover  an 
hour  or  two  before  serving,  to  brown  the  top  and  crisp 
the  pork. 

PORK  SAUSAGES. 

Take  such  a proportion  of  fat  and  lean  pork  as  you 
like;  chop  it  quite  fine,  and  for  every  ten  pounds  of 
meat  take  four  ounces  of  fine  salt,  and  one  of  fine  pep- 
per; dried  sage,  or  lemon  thyme,  finely  powdered,  may 
be  added  if  liked;  a teaspoonful  of  sage,  and  the  same 
of  ground  allspice  and  cloves,  to  each  ten  pounds  of 
meat.  Mix  the  seasoning  through  the  meat;  pack  it 
down  in  stone  pots  or  put  in  musUn  bags.  Or  fill  the 


94 


THE  EVERYDAY  COOK-BOOK. 


hog’s  or  ox’s  guts,  having  first  made  them  perfectly 
clean,  thus:  empty  them,  cut  them  in  lengths,  and  lay 
them  three  or  four  days  in  salt  and  water,  or  weak  lime 
water;  turn  them  inside  out  once  or  twice,  scrape  them; 
then  rinse  them,  and  fill  with  the  meat. 

If  you  do  not  use  the  skins  or  guts,  make  the  sausage 
meat  up  to  the  size  and  shape  of  sausages,  dip  them  in 
beaten  egg,  and  then  into  wheat  flour,  or  rolled  crackers, 
or  simply  into  wheat  flour,  and  fry  in  hot  lard.  Turn 
them,  that  every  side  may  be  a fine  color.  Serve  hot, 
with  boiled  potatoes  or  hominy;  either  taken  from  the 
gravy,  or  after  they  are  fried,  pour  a little  boiling 
water  into  the  gravy  in  the  pan,  and  pour  it  over  them; 
or  first  dredge  in  a teaspoonful  of  wheat  flour,  stir  it 
until  it  is  smooth  and  brown;  then  add  a little  boiling 
water,  let  it  boil  up  once,  then  put  it  in  the  dish  with 
the  sausages. 

Chopped  onion  and  green  parsley  may  be  added  to 
the  sausage  meat,  when  making  ready  to  fry. 

Or  sausage  meat  may  be  tied  in  a muslin  bag,  and 
boiled,  and  served  with  vegetables;  or  let  it  become 
cold,  and  cut  in  slices. 

POBK  CHOPS,  STEAKS  AND  CUTLETS. 

Fry  or  stew  pork  chops,  after  taking  off  the  rind  or 
skin,  the  same  as  for  veal. 

Cutlets  and  steaks  are  also  fried,  broiled,  or  stewed, 
the  same  as  veal. 

BOAST  PIG. 

Thoroughly  clean  the  pig,  then  rinse  it  in  cold  water, 
wipe  it  dry;  then  rub  the  inside  with  a mixture  of  salt 
and  pepper,  and  if  liked,  a little  pounded  and  sifted 
sage;  make  a stuffing  thus:  cut  some  wheat  bread  in 
slices  half  an  inch  thick,  spread  butter  on  to  half  its 
thickness,  sprinkled  with  pepper  and  salt,  if  not  liked, 


TEF,  EVEBTDAY  COOKBOOK. 


9S 

a little  pounded  sage  and  minced  onion;  pour  enough 
hot  water  over  the  bread  to  make  it  moist  or  soft,  then 
fill  the  body  with  it  and  sew  it  together,  or  tie  a cord 
around  it  to  keep  the  dressing  in,  then  spit  it;  put  a 
pint  of  water  in  the  dripping-pan,  put  into  it  a teaspoon- 
ful of  salt,  and  a teaspoonful  of  pepper,  let  the  fire  be 
hotter  at  each  end  than  in  the  middle,  put  the  pig  down 
at  a little  distance  from  the  fire,  baste  it  as  it  begins  to 
roast,  and  gradually  draw  it  nearer,  continue  to  baste 
occasionaly;  turn  that  it  may  be  evenly  cooked;  when 
the  eyes  drop  out  it  is  done;  or  a better  rule  is  to  judge 
by  the  weight,  fifteen  minutes  for  each  pound  of  meat, 
if  the  fire  is  right. 

Have  a bright  clear  fire,  with  a bed  ot  coals  at  the 
bottom;  put  the  roast  at  a little  distance,  and 
gradually  draw  it  nearer;  when  the  pig  is  done  stir  up 
the  fire,  take  a coarse  cloth  with  a good  bit  of  butter  in 
it,  and  wet  the  pig  all  over  with  it,  and  when  the  crack- 
ling is  crisp  take ’t  up,  dredge  a little  flour  into  the 
gravy,  let  it  boil  up  once,  and  have  boiled  the  heart, 
liver,  etc.,  tender,  and  chopped  it  fine,  add  it  to  the 
gravy,  give  it  one  boil,  then  serve. 

PIG’S  CHEEK. 

Is  smoked  and  boiled  like  ham  with  vegetables;  boiled 
cabbage  or  fried  parsnips  may  be  served  with  it. 

ROAST  SPARE-RIB. 

Trim  off  the  rough  ends  neatly,  crack  the  ribs  across 
the  middle,  rub  with  salt  and  sprinkle  with  pepper,  fold 
over,  stuff  with  turkey-dressing,  sew  up  tightly,  place 
in  dripping-pan  with  pint  of  water,  baste  frequently, 
turning  over  once  so  as  to  bake  both  sides  equally  until 
a rich  brown. 


m 


THE  EVEBYDAT  COOK-BOOK. 


POEK  FRITTERS. 

Have  at  hand  a thick  batter  of  Indian  meal  and  flour; 
cut  a few  slices  of  pork  and  fry  them  in  the  frying-pan 
until  the  fat  is  fried  out;  cut  a few  more  slices  of  the 
pork,  dip  them  in  the  batter,  and  drop  them  in  the 
bubbling  fat,  seasoning  with  salt  and  pepper;  cook  until 
light  brown,  and  eat  while  hot. 

BAKED  HAM. 

Cover  your  ham  with  cold  water,  and  simmer  gently 
just  enough  to  loosen  the  skin,  so  that  it  can  be  pulled 
off.  This  will  probably  be  from  two  to  three  hours, 
according  to  the  size  of  your  ham.  When  skinned, 
pat  in  a dripping-pan  in  the  oven,  pour  over  it  a teacup 
of  vinegar,  and  one  of  hot  water,  in  which  disolve  a 
teaspoonful  of  English  mustard,  bake  slowly,  basting 
with  the  liquid,  for  two  hours.  Then  cover  the  ham  all 
over  to  the  depth  of  one  inch  with  coarse  brown  sugar, 
press  it  down  firmly,  and  do  not  baste  again  until  the 
sugar  has  formed  a thick  crust,  which  it  will  soon  do 
in  a very  slow  oven.  Let  it  remain  a full  hour  in  after 
covering  with  the  sugar,  until  it  becomes  a rich  golden 
brown.  When  done,  drain  from  the  liquor  in  the  pan 
and  put  on  a dish  to  cool.  When  it  is  cool,  but  not 
cold,  press  by  turning  another  flat  dish  on  top,  with  a 
weight  over  it.  You  will  never  want  to  eat  ham  cooked 
in  any  other  way  when  you  have  tasted  this,  and  the 
pressing  makes  it  cut  firmly  for  sandwiches  or  slicing. 

TO  BOIL  A HAM. 

Wash  thoroughly  with  a cloth.  Select  a'  small  size  to 
boil,  put  it  in  a large  quantity  of  cold  water,  and  boil 
twenty  minutes  for  each  pound,  allowing  it  to  boilslowlyi 


TEE  EVERYDAY  COOK-BOOK. 


97 


take  off  the  rind  while  hot  and  put  in  the  oven  to  brown 
half  an  hour;  remove  and  trim. 

TO  BROIL  HAM. 

Cut  some  slices  of  ham,  quarter  of  an  inch  thick,  lay 
them  in  hot  water  for  half  an  hour,  or  give  them  a 
scalding  in  a pan  over  the  fire;  then  take  them  up  and 
lay  them  on  a gridiron,  over  bright  coals;  when  the  out- 
side is  browned,  turn  the  other;  then  take  the  slices  on 
a hot  dish,  butter  them  freely,  sprinkle  pepper  over  and 
serve.  Or,  after  scalding  them,  wipe  them  dry,  dip 
each  slice  in  beaten  egg,  and  then  into  rolled  crackers, 
and  fry  or  broil. 

FRIED  HAM  AND  EGGS  (a  Breakfast  Dish.) 

Cut  the  ham  into  slices,  and  take  care  that  they  are 
of  the  same  thickness  in  every  part.  Cut  off  the  rind, 
and  if  the  ham  should  be  particularly  hard  and  salt,  it 
will  be  found  an  improvement  to  soak  it  for  about  ten 
minutes  in  hot  water,  and  then  dry  it  in  a cloth.  Put 
it  into  a cold  frying-pan,  set  it  over  the  fire,  and  turn 
the  slices  three  or  four  times  whilst  they  are  cooking. 
When  done  place  them  on  a dish,  which  should  be  kept 
hot  in  front  of  the  fire  during  the  time  the  eggs  are 
being  poached.  Poach  the  eggs;  slip  them  on  to  the 
slices  of  ham,  and  serve  quickly. 

HAM  TOAST. 

Mince  finely  a quarter  of  a pound  of  cooked  ham 
with  an  anchovy  boned  and  washed;  add  a little  Cay- 
enne and  pounded  mace;  beat  up  two  eggs;  mix  with 
the  mince,  and  add  just  sufficient  milk  to  keep  it  moist; 
make  it  quite  hot,  and  serve  on  small  rounds  of  toast 
or  fried  bread. 


98 


rHE  EVEBTDAT  COOK-BOOK. 


HEAD  CHEESE. 

Having  thoroughly  cleaned  a hog’s  head  or  pig’s  head 
split  it  in  two  with  a sharp  knife,  take  out  the  eyes, 
take  out  the  brains,  cut  off  the  ears,  and  pour  scalding 
water  over  them  and  the  head,  and  scrape  them  clean. 
Cut  off  any  part  of  the  nose  which  may  be  discolored 
so  as  not  to  be  scraped  clean;  then  linse  all  in  cold  water, 
and  put  it  into  a large  kettle  with  hot  (not  boiling) 
water  to  cover  it,  and  set  the  kettle  (having  covered  it) 
over  the  fire;  let  it  boil  gently,  taking  off  the  scum  as  it 
rises;  when  boiled  so  that  the  bones  leave  the  meat  read- 
ily, take  it  from  the  water  with  a skimmer  into  a large 
wooden  bowl  or  tray;  take  from  it  every  particle  of 
bone;  chop  the  meat  small  and  season  to  taste  with  salt 
and  pepper,  and  if  liked  a little  sage  or  thyme;  spread 
a cloth  in  a colander  or  sieve;  set  it  in  a deep  dish,  an/ 
put  the  meat  in,  then  fold  the  cloth  closely  over  it,  la^ 
a weight  on  which  may  press  equally  the  whole  surfact 
(a  sfficiently  large  plate  will  serve).  Let  the  weight  be 
more  or  less  heavy,  according  as  you  may  wish  the 
cheese  to  be  fat  or  lean;  a heavy  weight  by  pressing  out 
the  fat  will  of  course  leave  the  cheese  lean.  When 
cold  take  the  weight  off;  take  it  from  the  colander  or 
sieve,  scrape  off  whatever  fat  may  be  found  on  the  out- 
side of  the  cloth,  and  keep  the  cheese  in  the  cloth  in  a 
cool  place,  to  be  eaten  sliced  thin,  wdth  or  without  mus- 
tard, and  vinegar  or  catsup.  After  the  water  is  cold  in 
which  the  head  was  boiled,  take  off  the  fat  from  it,  and 
whatever  may  have  drained  from  the  sieve,  or  colander, 
and  cloth;  put  it  together  in  some  clean  water,  give  it 
one  boil;  then  strain  it  through  a cloth,  and  set  it  to 
oecome  cold;  then  take  off  the  cake  of  fat  It  is  fit 
for  any  use. 


THE  EVERYDAT  COOK-BOOK. 


99 


PIGS’  FEET  SOUSED. 

Scald  and  scrape  clean  the  feet ; if  the  covering  of 
the  toes  will  not  come  off  without,  singe  them  in  hot 
embers,  until  they  are  loose,  then  take  them  off.  ]\Iany 
persons  lay  them  in  weak  lime  water  to  whiten  them. 
Having  scraped  them  clean  and  white,  wash  them  and 
put  them  in  a pot  of  hot  (not  boiling)  water,  with  a 
little  salt,  and  let  them  boil  gently,  until  by  turning  a 
fork  in  the  flesh  it  will  easily  break  and  the  bones  are 
loosened.  Take  off  the  scum  as  it  rises.  When  done, 
take  them  from  the  hot  water  into  cold  vinegar,  enough 
to  cover  them,  add  to  it  one-third  as  much  of  the  water 
in  which  they  were  boiled ; add  whole  pepper  and  all- 
spice, wuth  cloves  and  mace  if  liked,  put  a cloth  and  a 
tight-fitting  cover  over  the  pot  or  jar.  Soused  feet  may 
be  eaten  cold  from  the  vinegar,  split  in  two  from  top 
to  toe,  or  having  split  them,  dip  them  in  wheat  flout 
and  fry  in  hot  lard,  or  broil  and  butter  them.  In  either 
case,  let  them  be  nicely  browned. 

TO  MAKE  LAED. 

Take  the  leaf  fat  from  the  inside  of  a bacon  hog,  cut 
it  small,  and  put  it  in  an  iron  kettle,  which  must  be 
perfectly  free  from  any  musty  taste ; set  it  over  a steady, 
moderate  fire,  until  nothing  but  scraps  remain  of  the 
meat;  the  heat  must  be  kept  up,  but  gentle,  that  it 
may  not  burn  the  lard  ; spread  a coarse  cloth  in  a wire 
sieve,  and  strain  the  liquid  into  tin  basins  which  will 
hold  two  or  three  quarts  ; squeeze  out  all  the  fat  from 
the  scraps.  When  the  lard  in  the  pans  is  cold,  press  a 
piece  of  muslin  close  upon  it,  trim  it  off  the  ed^  of  the 
pan,  and  keep  it  in  a cool  place.  Or,  it  may  be  kept 
in  wooden  kegs  with  close  covers.  Lard  made  with 
one-third  as  much  beef  suet  as  fat,  is  supposed  by  many 
persons  to  keep  better. 


100 


THE  EVERYDAY  COOK-BOOK. 


TO  TELL  GOOD  EGGS.0 

Put  them  in  water — if  the  large  ends  turns  up,  they 
are  not  fresh.  This  is  an  infallible  rule  to  distinguish 
a good  egg  from  a bad  one. 

KEEPING  EGGS  PEESH. 

“All  it  is  necessary  to  do  to  keep  eggs  through 
summer  is  to  procure  small,  clean  wooden  or  tin  vessels, 
holding  from  ten  to  twenty  gallons,  and  a barrel,  more 
or  less,  of  common,  fine-ground  land  plaster.  Begin 
by  putting  on  the  bottom  of  the  vessel  two  or  three 
inches  of  plaster,  and  then,  having  fresh  eggs,  with  the 
yolks  unbroken,  set  them  up,  small  end  down,  dose  to 
each  other,  but  not  crowding,  and  make  the  first  layer. 
Then  add  more  plaster  and  enough  so  the  eggs  will 
stand  upright,  and  set  up  the  second  layer;  then  another 
deposit  of  plaster,  followed  by  a layer  of  eggs,  till  the 
vessel  is  full,  and  finish  by  covering  the  top  layer  with 
plaster.  Eggs  so  packed  and  subjected  to  a tempera- 
ture of  at  least  85  degrees,  if  not  90  degrees,  during 
August  and  September,  come  out  fresh,  and  if  one 
could  be  certain  of  not  having  a temperature  of  more 
than  75  degrees  to  contend  with,  I am  confident  eggs 
could  be  kept  by  these  means  all  the  year  round.  ■ Ob- 
serve that  the  eggs  must  be  fresh  laid,  the  yolks 
unbroken,  the  packing  done  in  small  vessels,  and  with 
clean,  fine-ground  land  plaster,  and  care  must  be  taken 
that  no  egg  so  presses  on  another  as  to  break  the  shell.” 

Eggs  may  be  kept  good  for  a year  in  the  following 
manner : 

To  a pail  of  water,  put  of  unslacked  lime  and  coarse 
salt  each  a pint ; keep  it  in  a cellar,  or  cool  place,"  and 
put  the  eggs  in,  as  fresh  laid  as  possible. 

It  is  well  to  keep  a stone  pot  of  this  lime  water  ready 


TEE  EVEjxTDAY  COOK-BOOK. 


101 


ttr  receive  the  eggs  as  soon  as  laid  ; make  a fresh  sup- 
ply every  few  months.  This  lime  water  is  exactly  the 
proper  strength  ; strong  lime  water  will  cook  the  eggs, 
Very  strong  lime  water  will  eat  the  shell. 

POACHED  EGGS. 

Two  eggs,  two  tablespoonfuls  of  • milk,  half  a tea- 
spoonful of  salt,  half  a teaspoonful  of  butter.  Beat 
the  eggs,  and  add  the  salt  and  milk.  Put  the  butter  in 
a small  saucepan,  and  when  it  melts  add  the  eggs.  Stir 
over  the  fire  until  the  mixture  thickens,  being  careful 
not  to  let  it  cook  hard.  About  two  minutes  will  cook 
it.  The  eggs,  when  done,  should  be  soft  and  creamy. 
Serve  immediately 

DSOPPED  EGGS. 

Have  one  quart  of  boiling  water  and  one  tablespoon- 
ful of  salt  in  a frying  pan.  Break  the  eggs,  one  by 
one,  into  a saucer,  and  slide  carefully  into  the  salted 
water.  Cook  until  the  white  is  firm,  and  lift  out  with 
a g riddle-cake  turner  and  place  on  toasted  bread.  Serve 
immediately. 

STUFFED  EGGS. 

Six  hard-boiled  eggs  cut  in  two,  take  out  the  yolks 
and  mash  fine;  then  add  two  teaspoonfuls  of  butter, 
one  of  cream,  two  or  three  drops  of  onion  juice,  salt 
and  pepper  to  taste.  Mix  all  thoroughly  and  fill  the 
eggs  with  this  mixture;  put  them  together.  Then 
there  will  be  a little  of  the  filling  left,  to  which  add  one 
well-beaten  egg.  Cover  the  eggs  with  this  mixture, 
and  then  roll  in  cracker-crumbs.  Fry  a light  brown  in 
boiling  fat.  Plain  baked  eggs  make  a quite  pretty 
breakfast  dish.  Take  a round  white-ware  dish  thick 
enough  to  stand  the  heat  of  the  ovair  put  into  it  sufii- 


108 


TEE  EVERYDAY  COOK-^BOOK, 


cient  fresh  butter,  and  break  as  many  eggs  in  ii  as  ».re 
desirable" putting  a few  bits  of  butter  on  the  top,  and 
set  in  rather  a slow  oven  until  they  are  cooked.  Have 
a dish  of  nicely  made  buttered  toast  arranged  sym- 
metrically on  a plate,  and  garnish  it  and  the  dish  of 
eggs  Avith  small  pieces  of  curled  parsley. 

EGGS  A LA  SUISSE. 

Spread  the  bottom  of  the  dish  with  two  ounces  of 
fresh  butter;  cover  this  with  grated  cheese;  break  eight 
whole  eggs  upon  the  cheese  without  breaking  the  yolks. 
Season  with  red  pepper  and  salt  if  necessary;  pour  a 
little  cream  on  the  surface,  strew  about  two  ounces  of 
grated  cheese  on  the  top,  and  set  the  eggs  in  a moder- 
ate oven  for  about  a quarter  of  an  hour.  Pass  a hot 
salamander  over  the  top  to  brown  it. 

EGGS  BROUILLB. 

Six  eggs,  half  a cupful  of  milk,  or,  better  still,  of 
cream;  two  mushrooms,  one  teaspoonful  of  salt,  a little 
pepper,  three  tablespoonfuls  of  butter,  a slight  grating 
of  nutmeg.  Cut  the  mushrooms  into  dice,  and  fry 
them  for  one  minute  in  one  tablespoonful  of  the  butter. 
Beat  the  eggs,  salt,  pepper,  and  cream  together,  and 
put  them  in  a saucepan.  Add  the  butter  and  mush- 
rooms to  these  ingredients.  Stir  over  a moderate  heat 
until  the  mixture  begins  to  thicken.  Take  from  the 
fire  and  beat  rapidly  until  the  eggs  become  quite  thick 
and  creamy.  Have  slices  of  toast  on  a hot  dish  Heap 
the  mixture  on  these,  and  garnish  with  points  of  toast. 
Serve  immediately. 

CURRIED  EGGS. 

Slice  two  onions  and  fry  in  butter,  add  a tablespoon 
€urry*powdei'aad  one  pint  good  broth  or  stock,  stew  til! 


Bv  Katherine  lUorhit. 


have  cleaned  my 
aughter  s dress,  which  is  elaboratelv 

hen  four  t',  S^’anite  dishpan. 

K-  1,  gasoline  onto  the  dress 

i^rts'’  *be  most  soiled 

ins  ou..  Coyer  and  leave  for  half  an 

V all  ^h°“  swishing  it  up  and  down  gen- 
Lr  the  ir  ‘be  bottom. 

on°whL'^yr®  “?  a warm 

“XT  there  is  no  odor  remaining. 

nra  T must  be  done  out  of 

"^t.  ANOTHER  HAPPY  WIPE.' 


■ANSWERS  TO  CORRESPONDENTS. 

^ Mary  M.  Don’t  use  benzoin  if  your  skin 
IS  oily.  It  is  b3tt>:r  for  a d.y  tkin.  After 
washing  the  face  give  it  a da^h  of  lavender 
water.  Women  need  to  study  the  nature 
or  their  complexions  before  they  try  to 
improve  them.  Such  and  such  a thing  is 
said  to  be  good  for  the  complexion  and  all 
the  maids  and  matio  s ruih  to  use  it.  No 
wonder  many  say:  -‘Oh,  such  a thing  is  no 
use.  I tried  it  and  it  wasn't  the  least  par- 
ticle of  good." 

Carrie  Careless — To  cure  dyspepsia  by 
means  of  exercise  try  punching  a bag.  Sus- 
pend it  at  a convenient  height  from  the 
floor  to  permit  of  pounding  it  vigorously 
after  the,  manner  of  a prize  flghter.  You 
must  wear  gloves  to  protect  your  knuckles. 
Twisting  the  body  around  in  both  directions 
from  the  waist  is  a g od  ex^rci^e  for  you. 
Leaning  forward  and  t len  ba  kward  as  far 
as  poss.ble,  aLo  the  right  and  to  the  left, 
IS  good  practice.  Interlock  the  thumbs 
and  with  the  knees  straight  bend  forward 
until  the  tips  of  the  fingers  touch  the  floor. 
Rise  to  an  uprig  ;t  position,  with  the  arms 
above  the  head  B sid-,s  cu  i.  g your  dys- 
pepsia, these  atbl  tics  shou  d expand  your 
chest  and  put  roses  in  your  cheeks  and 
grace  and  vigor  in  every  motion.  Don’t 
say  that  you  are  too  weak  and  breathless 
to  take  exercise.  This  is  a delusion.  The 


weakness  and  the  quick  and  short  respira- 
tion arise  from  wa.R  of  exercise.  The  less 
exercise  one  takes  the  less  one  is  fitted 
for  and  the  more  one  needs  it.  Nerves  will 
become  disordered,  the  blood  thick  and 
sluggish  and  muscles  will  grow  flaccid  with- 
out exercise. 


power,  It  IS  not 
like  other  soaps 
which  merely 
cleanse,  for  Life- 
buoy Soap  clean- 
ses thprough- 
ly  and 

perfectlyW^^^B 

at 


Your  dcalc 
money  if  , 
satisfie 


1 

1 

1 

n) 

[ 

tBB  BVEBYDAT  COOKBOOK. 


108 


onifina  are  quite  tender,  add  a cup  of  cream  thickened 
with  arrowroot  or  rice  flour,  simmer  a few  moments, 
then  ado  eight  or  ten  hard-boiled  eggs,  cut  in  slices,  and 
beat  them  well,  but  do  not  boil. 

CREAMED  EGGS. 

Boil  six  eggs  twenty  minutes.  Make  one  pint  of 
cream  sauce.  Hav  six  slices  of  toast  on  a hot  dish. 
Put  a layer  of  sauce  on  each  one,  and  then  part  of  the 
whites  of  the  eggs,  cut  in  thin  strips;  and  rub  part  of 
the  yolks  through  a sieve  on  to  the  toast.  Repeat  this, 
and  finish  with  a third  layer  of  sauce.  Place  in  the  oven 
for  about  three  minutes.  Garnish  with  parsley,  and 
serve. 

SOFT  BOILED  EGGS. 

Place  the  eggs  in  a warm  saucepan,  and  cover  with 
boiUng  water.  Let  them  stand  where  they  will  keep 
hot,  but  not  boil,  for  ten  minutes.  This  method  will 
cook  both  whites  and  yolks. 

EGGS  UPON  TOAST. 

Put  a good  lump  of  butter  into  a frying-pan.  Whe^ 
it  is  hot,  stir  in  four  or  five  well-beaten  eggs,  with  pep- 
per, salt,  and  a little  parsley.  Stir  and  toss  for  three 
minutes.  Have  ready  to  your  hand  some  slices  of  but- 
tered toast  (cut  round  with  a tin  cake  cutter  before  they 
are  toasted);  spread  thickly  with  ground  or  minced 
tongue,  chickeuj  or  ham.  Heap  the  stirred  eggs  upon 
these  in  mounds,  and  set  in  a hot  dish  garnished  with 
parsley  and  pickled  beets. 

DUTCH  OMELET. 

Break  eight  eggs  into  a basin,  season  with  pepper  and 

salt)  add  two  oaaces  of  butter  eut  beat  these 


m 


TBS  srssmAf  cookbook. 


together,  make  an  ounce  of  butter  hot  in  a frying-pan, 
put  the  eggs  in,  continue  to  stir  it,  drawing  it  away 
from  the  sides,  that  it  may  be  evenly  done,  shake  it  now 
and  then  to  free  it  from  the  pan;  when  the  under  side  is 
a little  browned,  turn  the  omelet  into  a dish,  and  serve; 
this  must  be  done  over  a moderate  fire. 

EGGS  POACHED  IN  BALLS. 

Put  three  pints  of  boiling  water  into  a stewpan;  set  it 
on  a hot  stove  or  coals;  stir  the  water  with  a stick  until 
it  runs  rapidly  around,  then  having  broken  an  egg  into 
a cup,  taking  care  not  to  break  the  yolk,  drop  it  into 
the  whirling  water;  continue  to  stir  it  until  the  egg  is 
cooked,  then  take  it  into  a dish  with  a skimmer  and  set 
it  over  a pot  of  boiling  water;  boil  one  at  a time,  until 
you  have  enough.  These  will  remain  soft  for  a long 
time. 

OMELET  AH  NATURAL. 

Break  eight  or  ten  eggs  into  a basin;  add  a small  tea- 
spoonful of  salt  and  a little  pepper,  with  a tablespoonful 
of  cold  water;  beat  the  whole  well  with  a spoon  or 
whisk.  In  the  meantime  put  some  fresh  sweet  butter 
into  an  omelet  pan,  and  when  it  is  nearly  hot,  put  in  an 
omelet;  while  it  is  frying,  with  a skimmer  spoon  raise 
the  edges  from  the  pan  that  it  may  be  properly  done. 
When  the  eggs  are  set  and  one  side  is  a fine  brown, 
double  it  half  over  and  serve  hot.  These  omelets  should 
be  put  quite  thin  in  the  pan;  the  butter  required  for 
each  will  be  about  the  size  of  a small  egg. 

OMELET  IN  BATTER. 

Fry  an  omelet;  when  done,  cut  it  in  squares  or  dia- 
monds, dip  each  piece  in  batter  made  of  two  eggs  and  a 
pint  of  milk,  w'ith  enough  wheat  flour,  and  fry  them  io 
nice  salted  lard  to  a delicate  browo.  Seiw©  hot 


ms  EVERTDAY  COOK-BOOK. 


105 


SCBAMBLED  EGGS. 

Four  eggs,  one  tablespoonful  of  butter,  half  a tea> 
spoonful  of  salt.  Beat  the  eggs  and  add  the  salt  to 
them.  Melt  the  butter  in  a saucepan.  Turn  in  the 
beaten  eggs,  stir  quickly  over  a hot  fire  for  one  minute, 
and  serve. 

OMELET  (SPLENDID). 

Six  eggs,  whites  and  yolks  beaten  separately;  half 
pint  milk,  six  teaspoons  corn  starch,  one  teaspoon  bak- 
ing powder,  and  a little  salt;  add  the  whites,  beaten  to 
stiff  froth,  last;  cook  in  a little  butter. 


06 


THE  EVERYDAY  COOK  BOOM. 


VEGETABLES. 


BOILED  POTATOS. 

Old  potatoes  are  better  for  being  peeled  and  put  in 
cold  water  an  hour  before  being  put  over  to  boil.  They 
should  then  be  put  into  fresh  cold  water,  when  set  over 
the  fire.  New  potatoes  should  always  be  put  in  a boil- 
ing water,  and  it  is  best  to  prepare  them  just  in  time 
for  cooking.  Are  better  steamed  than  boiled. 

MASHED  POTATOS. 

Potatoes  are  not  good  for  mashing  until  they  are  full 
grown;  peel  them,  and  lay  them  in  water  for  an  hour 
or  more  before  boiling,  for  mashing. 

Old  potatoes,  when  unfit  for  plain  boiling,  may  be 
served  mashed;  cut  out  all  imperfections,  take  oft  all 
'he  skin,  and  lay  them  in  cold  water  for  one  hour  or 
more;  then  put  them  into  a dinner-pot  or  stewpan,  with 
a teaspoonful  of  salt;  cover  the  stewpan,  md  let  them 
boil  for  half  an  hour,  unless  they  are  large,  when  three- 
quarters  of  an  hour  will  be  required;  when  they  are 
done,  take  them  up  with  a skimmer  into  a wooden  bowl 
or  tray,  and  mash  them  fine  with  a potato  beetle;  melt 
a piece  oi  butter,  the  size  of  a large  egg,  into  half  a 
pint  of  hot  milk;  mix  it  with  the  mashed  potatoes  until 
it  is  thoroughly  incorporated,  and  a smooth  mass;  then 
pet  it  in  . deep  dish,  emootl-  the  top  over,  and  it 


f BE  SVEBtDAY  COOK-BOOK.  Wt 

nsatly  with  a knife;  put  pepper  over  and  serve.  The 
quantity  of  milk  used  must  be  in  proportion  to  the 
quantity  of  potatoes. 

Mashed  potatoes  may  be  heaped  on  a flat  dish;  make 
it  m a crown  or  pineapple;  stick  a sprig  of  green  celery 
or  parsley  in  the  top;  or  first  brown  it  before  the  fire 
or  in  an  oven. 

Mashed  potatoes  may  be  made  a highly  ornamental 
dish;  after  shaping  it,  as  taste  may  direct,  trim  the  edge 
of  the  plate  with  a wreath  of  celery  leaves  or  green 
parsley;  or  first  brown  the  outside  in  an  ovot  or  before 
the  fire. 

PRIED  POTATOES. 

Feel  and  cut  the  potatoes  into  thin  slices,  as  nearly 
the  same  size  as  possible;  make  some  butter  or  dripping 
quite  hot  in  a frying-pan;  put  in  the  potatoes,  and  fry 
them  on  both  sides  to  a nice  brown.  When  they  are 
crisp  and  done,  take  them  up,  place  them  on  a cloth 
before  the  fire  to  drain  the  grease  from  them,  and  serve 
very  hot,  after  sprinkling  them  with  salt.  These  are 
delicious  with  rump-steak,  and  in  France  are  frequently 
served  thus  as  a breakfast  dish.  The  remains  of  cold 
potatoes  may  also  be  sliced  and  fried  by  the  above  re- 
cipe, but  the  slices  must  be  cut  a little  thicker. 

BROILED  POTATOES. 

Cut  cold  boiled  potatoes  in  slices  lengthwise,  quarter 
of  an  inch  thick;  dip  each  slice  in  wheat  flour,  and  lay 
them  on  a giddiron  over  a bright  fire  of  coals;  when 
both  sides  are  browned  nicely,  take  them  on  a hot  dish, 
put  a bit  of  butter,  pepper  and  salt  to  taste  over,  and 
serve  hot 


POTATOES  AND  CREAM. 

Mince  cold  boiled  potatoes  fine;  put  them  into  a 
spider  with  melted  butter  in  it;  let  them  tsf  httie^te 


108 


THE  EVERYDAY  COOK-BOOK 


the  butter,  well  covered;  then  put  in  a fresh  piece  of 
butter,  seasoned  with  salt  and  pepper,  and  pour  over 
rich  cream  or  milk;  let  it  boil  up  once  and  serve. 

POTATO  PUFFS. 

Prepare  the  potatoes  as  directed  for  mashed  potato. 
While  hot,  shape  in  balls  about  the  size  of  an  egg. 
Have  a tin  sheet  well  buttered,  and  place  the  balls  on  it. 
As  soon  as  all  are  done,  brush  over  with  beaten  egg. 
Brown  in  the  oven.  When  done,  slip  a knife  under 
them  and  slide  them  upon  a hot  platter.  Garnish  with 
parsley,  and  serve  immediately. 

POTATO  SNOW. 

Choose  large  white  potatoes,  as  free  from  spots  as 
possible;  boil  them  in  their  skin  in  salt  and  water  until 
perfectly  tender,  drain  and  dry  them  thoroughly  by  the 
side  of  the  fire,  and  peel  them.  Put  a hot  dish  before 
the  fire,  rub  the  potatoes  through  a coarse  sieve  on  to 
this  dish;  do  not  touch  them  afterwards,  or  the  fiakes 
will  fall,  and  serve  as  hot  as  possible. 

POTATO  BOBDER. 

Six  potatoes,  three  eggs,  one  tablespoonful  of  butter, 
one  of  salt,  half  a cupful  of  boiling  milk.  Pare,  boil 
and  mash  the  potatoes.  When  fine  and  light,  add  the 
butter,  salt  and  pepper,  and  two  well-beaten  eggs.  But- 
ter the  border  mold  and  pack  the  potato  in  it.  Let  this 
stand  on  the  kitchen  table  ten  minutes;  then  turn  out 
on  a dish  and  brush  over  with  one  well-beaten  egg. 
Brown  in  the  oven. 

WHIPPED  POTATOES. 

Instead  of  mashing  in  the  ordinary  way  whip  with  a 
fiork  until  light  and  dry;  then  whip  in  a little  melted 


THE  EVEBTDAY  COOK-SOOK.  109 

butter,  some  milk,  and  salt  to  taste,  whipping  rapidly 
until  creamy,  Pile  as  lightly  and  irregularly  as  you 
can  in  a hot  dish. 

SCALLOPED  POTATOS. 

Prepare  in  this  proportion:  Two  cups  of  mashed  po- 
tatoes, two  tablespoonfuls  of  cream  or  milk,  and  one  of 
melted  butter;  salt  and  pepper  to  taste.  Stir  the  pota^ 
toes,  butter,  and  cream  together,  adding  one  raw  egg. 
If  the  potatoes  seem  too  moist,  beat  in  a few  fine  bread- 
crumbs. Bake  in  a hot  oven  for  ten  minutes,  taking 
care  to  have  the  top  a rich  brown. 

POTATO  CROQUETTES. 

Pare,  boil,  and  mash  six  good-sized  potatoes.  Add 
one  tablespoonful  of  butter,  two-thirds  of  a cupful  of 
hot  cream  or  milk,  the  whites  of  two  eggs  well-beaten, 
salt  and  pepper  to  taste.  When  cool  enough  to  handle, 
work  into  shape,  roll  in  eggs  and  bread-crumbs,  and  fry 
in  hot  lard. 

POTATOS  A LA  CREME. 

Heat  a cupful  of  milk;  stir  in  a heaping  tablespoonful 
of  butter  cut  up  in  as  much  flour.  Stir  until  smooth 
and  thick;  pepper  and  salt,  and  add  two  cupfuls  of  cold 
boiled  potatoes,  sliced,  and  a little  very  finely-chopped 
parsley.  Shake  over  the  fire  until  the  potatoes  are  hot 
all  through,  and  pour  into  a deep  dish. 

TO  BOIL  SWEET  POTATOS. 

Wash  them  perfectly  clean,  put  them  into  a pot  or 
stewpan,  and  pour  boihng  water  over  to  cover  them; 
cover  the  pot  close,  and  boil  fast  for  half  an  hour,  or 
more  if  the  potatoes  are  large;  try  them  with  a fork; 
when  done,  drain  off  the  water,  take  off  the  skins,  and 
serve. 


110 


TEE  EVERYDAY  COOK- BOOM. 


Cold  sweet  potatoes  may  be  cut  in  slices  across  w 
lengthwise,  and  fried  or  broiled  as  common  potatoes;  or 
they  may  be  cut  in  half  and  served  cold. 

BOASTED  SWEET  POTATOES. 

Having  washed  them  clean,  and  wiped  them  dry, 
roast  them  on  a hot  hearth  as  directed  for  common  po- 
tatoes; or  put  them  in  a Dutch  oven  or  tin  reflector. 
Boasted  or  baked  potatoes  should  not  be  cut,  but  broken 
open  and  eaten  from  the  skin,  as  from  a shell. 

TO  BAKE  SWEET  POTATOES. 

Wash  them  perfectly  clean,  wipe  them  dry,  and  bake 
in  a quick  oven,  according  to  their  size — half  an  hour 
for  quite  small  size,  three-quarters  for  larger,  and  a full 
hour  for  the  largest.  Let  the  oven  have  a good  heat, 
and  do  not  open  it,  unless  it  is  necesary  to  turn  them, 
until  they  are  done. 

FRENCH  PRIED  SWEET  POTATOES. 

Prepare  and  fry  the  same  as  the  white  potatoes.  Or 
they  can  first  be  boiled  half  an  hour,  and  then  pared, 
cut  and  fried  as  directed.  The  latter  is  the  better  way, 
as  they  are  liable  to  be  a little  hard  if  fried  when  raw. 

TURNIPS. 

Boil  until  tender;  mash  and  season  with  butter,  pep- 
per, salt,  and  a little  rich  milk  or  cream. 

SPINACH. 

An  excellent  way  to  serve  spinach  is  to  first  look  it 
over  carefully,  wash  it  in  two  or  three  waters.  If  the 


THE  EVERYDAY  COOKBOOK.  Hi 

stalks  are  not  perfectly  tender,  cut  the  leaves  from  the 
stalk.  Boil  for  twenty  minutes  in  water  with  enough 
salt  disolved  in  it  to  salt  the  spinach  sufficiently. 
When  done  let  it  drain,  then  chop  it  fine,  put  on  the 
stove  in  a saucepan,  with  a lump  of  butter,  salt,  and 
pepper,  and  enough  milk  to  moisten  it.  When  the 
butter  is  melted  and  spinach  steaming,  take  from  the 
fire  and  put  it  in  the  dish  in  which  it  is  going  to  the 
table.  Garnish  with  hard-boiled  eggs  cut  in  slices  or 
rings — that  is,  with  the  yolk  removed  and  rings  of  the 
white  only  left. 

BEETS. 

Clean  these  nicely,  do  not  pare  them,  leaving  on  a 
short  piece  of  stalk.  Then  put  over  to  boil  in  hot  water. 
Young  beets  will  cook  tender  in  an  hour;  old  beets  re- 
quire several  hours’  boiling.  When  done,  skin  quickly 
while  hot,  slice  thin  into  your  vegetable  dish,  put  on 
salt,  pepper,  and  a little  butter,  put  over  a little  vinegar, 
and  serve  hot  or  cold. 

TO  PRESERVE  VEGETABLES  FOR  WIN- 
TER USE. 

Green  string  beans  must  be  picked  when  young;  put 
a layer  three  inches  deep  in  a small  wooden  keg  or  half 
barrel;  sprinkle  in  salt  an  inch  deep,  then  put  another 
layer  of  beans,  then  salt  the  beans  and  salt  in  alternate 
layers,  until  you  have  enough;  let  the  last  be  salt;  cover 
them  with  a piece  of  board  which  will  fit  the  inside  of 
the  barrel  or  keg,  and  place  a heavy  weight  upon  it; 
they  will  make  a brine. 

When  wanted  for  use,  soak  them  one  night  or  more 
in  plenty  of  water,  changing  it  once  or  twice,  until  the 
salt  is  out  of  them,  then  cut  them,  and  boil  the  same  as 
when  fresh. 

Caneots,  beans,  beet-roots,  parsnips,  and  potatoes 


112 


'tEB  EVERYDAt  COOK-BOOK, 


keep  best  in  dry  sand  or  earth  in  a cellar;  turnips  keep 
best  on  a cellar  bottom,  or  they  may  be  kept  the  same 
as  carrot,  etc.  Whatever  earth  remains  about  them 
when  taken  from  the  ground,  should  not  be  shaken  oflp. 

When  sprouts  come  on  potatoes  or  other  stored  vege- 
tables, they  should  be  carefully  cut  off.  The  young 
sprouts  from  turnips  are  sometimes  served  as  a salad, 
or  boiled  tender  in  salt  and  water,  and  served  with 
butter  and  pepper  over. 

Celery  may  be  kept  all  winter  by  setting  it  in  boxes 
filled  with  earth;  keep  it  in  the  cellar;  it  will  grow  and 
whiten  in  the  dark;  leeks  may  also  be  kept  in  this  way. 

Cabbage  set  out  in  earth,  in  a good  cellar,  will  keep 
good  and  fresh  all  winter.  Small  close  heads  of  cabbage 
may  be  kept  many  weeks  by  taking  them  before  the 
frost  comes,  and  laying  them  on  a stone  floor;  this  will 
whiten  them,  and  make  them  tender. 

Stored  onions  are  to  be  strung,  and  hung  in  a dry, 
cold  place. 

DELICATE  CABBAGE 

Remove  all  defective  leaves,  quarter  and  cut  as  for 
coarse  slaw,  cover  well  with  cold  water,  and  let  remain 
several  hours  before  cooking,  then  drain  and  put  into 
pot  with  enough  boiling  water  to  cover;  boil  until 
thoroughly  cooked  (which  will  generally  require  about 
forty-five  minutes),  add  salt  ten  or  fifteen  minutes  before 
removing  from  fire,  and  when  done,  take  up  into  a 
colander,  press  out  the  water  well,  and  season  with 
butter  and  pepper.  This  is  a good  dish  to  serve  with 
corned  meats,  but  should  not  be  cooked  with  them;  if 
prefered,  however,  it  may  be  seasoned  by  adding  some 
of  the  liquor  and  fat  from  the  boiling  meat  to  the  cab- 
bage while  cooking.  Drain,  remove,  and  serve  in  a 
dish  with  drawn  butter,  or  a cream  dressing  poured 
over  it 


Ui 


i tSS SWBEmAT  GOOK’BOOE, 

RED  CABBAGE. 

Select  two  small,  solid  heads  of  hard  red  cabbage; 
divide  them  in  halves  from  crown  to  stem;  lay  the  split 
side  down,  and  cut  downwards  in  thin  slices.  The  cab- 
bage will  then  be  in  narrow  strips  or  shreds.  Put  into 
a saucepan  a tablespoonful  of  clean  drippings,  butter, 
or  any  nice  fat;  when  fat  is  hot  put  in  cabbage,  a tea- 
spoonful of  salt,  three  tablespoonfuls  vinegar  (if  the 
latter  is  very  strong,  use  but  two),  and  one  onion,  in 
which  three  or  four  cloves  have  been  stuck,  buried  in 
the  middle;  boil  two  hours  and  a half,  if  it  becomes 
too  dry  and  is  in  danger  of  scorching,  add  a very  Uttle 
Water.  This  is  very  nice. 

CAULIFLOWER. 

Boil  a fine  cauliflower,  tied  up  snugly  in  coarse  tarle- 
tan,  in  hot  water,  a little  salt.  Drain  and  lay  in  a deep 
dish,  flower  uppermost.  Heat  a cup  of  milk;  thicken 
with  two  tablespoonfuls  of  butter,  cut  into  bits,  and 
rolled  in  flour.  Add  pepper,  salt,  the  beaten  white  of 
an  egg,  and  boil  up  one  minute,  stirring  well.  Take 
from  the  fire,  squeeze  the  juice  of  a lemon  through  a 
hair  sieve  into  the  sauce,  and  pour  half  into  a boat,  the 
rest  over  the  cauliflower 

MASHED  CARROTS. 

Scrape,  wash,  lay  in  cold  water  half  an  hour;  then 
cook  tender  in  boiling  water.  Drain  well,  mash  with 
a wooden  spoon,  or  beetle,  work  in  a good  piece  of 
butter,  and  season  with  pepper  and  salt.  Heap  up  in 
a vegetable  dish,  and  serve  very  hot  ^ 

BOILED  GREEN  CORN 

Choose  young  sjgar-com,  full  grown,  but  not  hard; 
tesl  with  the  oajl.  When  the  grain  is  pierced,  thn 


1!4  THE  EVEBTDAT  COOKBOOK. 

milk  should  escape  in  a jet  and  not  be  thick.  Clean  by 
stripping  off  the  outer  leaves,  turn  back  the  innermost 
covering  carefully,  pick  off  every  thread  of  silk,  and 
recover  the  ear  with  the  thin  husk  that  grew  nearest  it. 
Tie  at  the  top  with  a bit  of  thread,  put  boiling  water, 
salted,  and  cook  fast  from  twenty  minutes  to  half  an 
hour,  in  proportion  to  size  and  age.  Cut  off  the  stalks 
close  to  the  cob,  and  send  whole  to  table,  wrapped  in 
a napkin. 

Or  you  can  cut  from  the  cob  while  hot  and  season 
with  butter,  pepper  and  salt  Send  to  table  in  a veg- 
etable dish. 

GEEEIi  PEAS. 

Shell  and  lay  m cold  water  fifteen  minutes.  Cook 
from  twenty  to  twenty-five  minutes  in  boiling  salted 
water,  Drain,  put  in  a deep  dish  with  a good  lump  </ 
batterj  pepper  and  salt  to  taste. 

TO  BOn.  ONIONS. 

Take  off  the  tops  and  tails,  and  the  thin  outer  skin; 
bui  no  more,  lest  the  onions  should  go  to  pieces.  Lay 
them  on  the  bottom  of  a pan  which  is  broad  enough  to 
contain  them  without  piling  one  on  another;  just  cover 
them  with  water,  and  let  them  simmer  slowly  til]  they 
are  tender  all  through,  but  not  till  they  break 

Serve  them  up  with  melted  butter. 

FRIED  ONIONS. 

Cat  them  in  thin  slices  and  season  them;  have  a piece 
of  fat  bacon  frying  to  get  the  juice,  take  it  out,  and 
put  the  enions  m and  stir  until  a pretty  brown. 

BOILED  PARSNIPS. 

Wash  the  parsnips,  scrape  them  thoroughly,  and  with 
Uie  pOiiit  Kd  b knife  remove  my  black  spots  about  theiiiQi 


lEff  EVERY  DAT  COOKBOOK. 


118 


and  should  they  be  very  large,  cut  the  thick  part  into 
quarters.  Put  them  into  a saucepan  of  boiling  water, 
salted  in  the  above  proportion,  boil  them  rapidly  until 
tender,  which  may  be  ascertained  by  thrusting  a fork 
into  them;  take  them  up,  dram  them,  and  serve  in  a 
vegetable  dish.  This  vegetable  is  usually  served  with 
salt  fish,  boiled  pork,  or  boiled  beef,  when  sent  to  table 
with  the  latter,  a few  should  be  placed  alternately  with 
carrots  round  the  dish  as  a garnish. 

FABSNIFS  FBIED  IN  SUTTEE. 

Scrape  the  parsnips  and  boil  gently  forty-five  min- 
utes. When  cold,  cut  in  long  shoes  about  one-third  of 
an  inch  thick.  Season  with  salt  and  pepper.  Dip  in 
melted  butter  and  in  flour.  Have  two  tablespoonfuls  of 
butter  in  the  frying-pan,  and  as  soon  as  hot,  put  in 
enough  parsnips  to  cover  the  bottom.  Fry  brown  on 
both  sides  and  serve  on  a hot  dish. 

CREAMED  PARSNIPS. 

Boil  tender,  scrape,  and  slice  lengthwise.  Put  over 
the  fire  with  two  tablespoonfuls  of  butter,  pepper,  and 
salt,  and  a little  minced  parsley.  Shake  until  the  mix- 
ture boils.  Dish  the  parsnips,  add  to  the  sauce  three 
tablespoonfnls  of  cream  in  which  has  been  stirred  a 
quarter  spoonful  of  flour.  Boil  once,  and  pour  over 
the  paruips. 

PARSNIP  FRITTERS. 

Boil  four  or  five  parsnips;  when  tender;  take  off  the 
skin  and  mash  them  fine,  add  to  them  a teaspoonful  of 
wheat  flour  and  a beaten  egg;  put  a tablespoonful  of 
lard  or  beef  dripping  in  a frying-pan  over  tho  fire,  add 
to  it  a saltspoonful  of  salt;  when  boiling  hot,  put  in  the 
make  it  in  small  cakes  with  a spoon;  when 


116 


THE  EVERYDAY  COOK-BOOK. 


side  is  a delicate  brown,  turn  the  other;  when  both  are 
done,  take  them  on  a dish,  put  a very  little  of  the  fat 
in  which  they  were  fried  over,  and  serve  hot.  These 
resemble  very  nearly  the  taste  of  the  salsify  or  oyster 
plant,  and  will  generally  be  preferred. 

SALSIFY,  OR  VEGETABLE  OYSTER. 

Boil  and  serve  as  directed  for  parsnips,  either  plain 
boiled,  or  fried,  or  made  fritters. 

BOILED  VEGETABLE  MARROW. 

Have  ready  a saucepan  of  boiling  water,  properly 
salted;  put  in  the  marrows  after  peeling  them,  and  boil 
them  until  quite  tender.  Take  them  up  with  a slice: 
halve,  and,  should  they  be  very  large,  quarter  them. 
Dish  them  on  toast,  and  send  to  table  with  them  a 
tureen  of  melted  butter,  or,  in  lieu  of  this,  a small  pat 
of  salt  butter.  Large  vegetable  marrows  may  be  pre- 
served throughout  the  winter  by  storing  them  in  a dry 
place;  when  wanted  for  use.  a few  slices  should  be  cut 
and  boiled  m the  same  manner  as  above;  but  when  once 
begun,  the  marrow  rqust  be  eaten  quickly,  and  it  keeps 
but  a short  time  after  it  is  cut.  Vegetable  marrows 
are  also  very  delicious  mashed;  they  should  be  boiled, 
then  drained,  and  mashed  smoothly  with  a wooden 
spoon.  Heat  them  in  a saucepan,  add  a seasoning  of 
salt  and  pepper*,  and  a small  piece  of  butter*,  and  dish 
with  a few  snippets  of  toasted  bread  placed  round  as  a 
garnish. 

Vegetable  marrows  are  delightful  when  sliced  and 
fried  for  ten  minutes  in  butter.  Before  being  fried 
they  may  be  dipped  in  a batter*  of  flour*  and  water, 
seasoned  with  a little  salt.  Vegetable  marrows  may 
also  be  dressed  as  follov^s:  Boil  one,  md  when  it  is 


TH^'  EVERYDAY  GOOKBOOK. 


117 


about  ready,  cut  it  in  pieces,  which  place  in  a fresh 
saucepan,  covered  with  soup  stock,  either  white  or 
brown;  add  a little  salt  in  stewing.  Serve  in  a deep 
dish  when  thoroughly  tender.  Vegetable  marrows  are 
very  nice  plain  boiled,  and  served  upon  buttered  toast. 
Peel  them  and  cut  them  so  as  to  be  able  to  remove  the 
seeds.  Marrows  will  take  from  twenty  minutes  to  an 
hour  to  boil,  according  to  size  and  age.  After  being 
parboiled,  they  may  be  sliced  down,  dipped  in  egg,  and 
then  rubbed  among  bread-crumbs,  and  fried; serve  them 
as  hot  as  possible. 

Tomatoes  may  be  sliced  thin,  and  served  with  salt, 
pepper,  and  vinegar  over,  for  breakfast  ; or  sliced,  and 
strewn  with  sugar  and  grated  nutmeg,  for  tea  ; for  din- 
ner they  may  be  stewed  or  broiled,  or  baked. 

Tomatoes  may  be  preserved  in  sugar,  or  as  catsup, 
when  out  of  season.  Such  as  like  them,  declare  them 
to  be  equally  excellent  in  each  and  every  form  or 
dressing. 

STEWED  TOMATOES. 

Pour  boiling  water  over  six  or  eight  large  tomatoes 
or  a greater  number  of  smaller  ones;  let  them  remian 
for  a few  minutes  then  peel  off  the  skins,  squeeze  out 
the  seeds,  and  some  of  the  juice,  by  pressing  them 
gently  in  the  hand ; put  them  in  a well-tinned  stew- 
pan,  with  a teaspoonful  of  salt,  a saltspoonful  of  pep- 
per, a bit  of  butter,  half  as  large  as  an  egg,  and  a table- 
speonful  of  grated  bread  or  rolled  crackers  ; cover  the 
stev/pan  close,  and  set  it  over  the  fire  for  nearly  an 
hour ; shake  the  stewpan  occasionally,  that  they  may 
not  burn  ; serve  hot. 

This  is  decidedly  the  best  manner  of  stewing  tomat- 
oes ; they  may  be  done  without  th^  and 

with  less  stewing  if  prefenredU 


118) 


THE  EVEETDAl  COOK-BOOK. 


BAKED  TOXATOES. 

Wash  five  or  six  smooth  tomatoes;  cut  a piece  from 
the  stem  cud,  the  size  of  a twenty-five  cent  piece ; put 
a saltspoonful  of  salt,  half  as  much  pepper,  and  a bit  o 
butter  the  size  of  nutmeg,  in  each  ° set  them  in  a dish 
or  pan,  and  bake  in  a moderate  oven  for  nearly  one 
hour. 

STUFFED  TOMATOES. 

Twelve  large,  smooth  tomatoes,  one  teaspoonful  of 
salt,  a little  pepper,  one  tablespooaful  of  butter,  one 
cf  sugar,  one  cupful  of  bread-crumbs,  me  teaspoonful 
of  onion-juice.  Arrange  the  tomatoes  in  r baking-pan. 
Cut  a thin  slice  from  the  smooth  end  of  e..ch.  With  a 
small  spoon,  scoop  out  as  much  of  the  pulp  and  juice 
as  possible  without  injuring  the  shape.  When  all  have 
been  treated  in  this  way,  mix  the  pulp  and  juice  with 
the  other  ingredients,  and  fill  the  tomatoes  v/i'  inis 
mixture.  Put  on  the  tops,  and  bake  slowly  three- 
quarters  of  an  hour.  Slide  the  cake  turner  under  the 
tomatoes  and  lift  gently  on  to  a flat  dish.  Garnish 
with  parsley  and  serve. 

SCALLOPED  TOMATOES. 

Turn  nearly  all  the  juice  off  from  a can  of  tomatoes. 
Salt  and  pepper  this,  by  the  way,  and  put  aside  in  a 
cool  place  for  some  other  day’s  soup.  Put  a layer  of 
bread-crumbs  in  the  bottom  of  a buttered  pie-dish  ; on 
them  one  of  tomatoes ; sprinkle  with  salt,  pepper,  and 
some  bits  of  butter,  also  a little  sugar.  Another  layer 
of  crumbs,  another  of  tomatoes — seasoned — then  a top 
layer  of  very  fine,  dry  crumbs.  Bake  covered  until 
bubbling  hot,  and  brown  quickly. 

TO  PEEL  TOMATOES. 

Put  the  tomatoes  in  a fryiqg  basket  and  plunge  them 
into  boiling  water  for  about  three  n.  iaiiics.  Drain  ^n<l 
peel. 


THE  EVEBT  DA  Y COOK-BOOK.  m 

BAKED  BEANS. 

Pick  one  quart  of  beans  free  from  stones  and  dirt. 
Wash  and  soak  in  cold  water  over  night.  In  the  morn- 
ing pour  off  the  water.  Cover  with  hot  water,  put 
two  pounds  of  corned  beef  with  them,  and  boil  until 
they  begin  to  split  open  (the  time  depends  upon  the  age 
of  the  beans,  but  it  will  be  from  thirty  to  sixty  min- 
utes). Turn  them  into  the  colander,  and  pour  over 
them  two  or  three  quarts  of  cold  water.  Put  about 
half  of  the  beans  in  a deep  earthen  pot,  then  put  in 
the  beef,  and  finally  the  remainder  of  the  beans.  Mix 
one  teaspoonful  of  mustard  and  one  tablespoonful  oi 
molasses  with  a little  water.  Pour  this  over  the  beans, 
and  then  add  boiling  water  to  just  cover.  Bake  slowly 
ten  hours.  Add  a little  water  occasionally. 

STRING  BEANS. 

String,  snap  and  wash  two  quarts  beans,  boil  in 
plenty  of  water  about  fifteen  minutes,  drain  off  and 
put  on  again  in  about  two  quarts  boiling  water;  boil  an 
hour  and  a half,  and  add  salt  and  pepper  just  before 
taking  up,  stirring  in  one  and  a half  tablespoons  butter, 
rubbed  into  two  tablespoons  flour  and  half  pint  sweet 
cream.  Or  boil  a piece  of  salted  pork  one  hour,  then 
add  beans  and  boil  an  hour  and  a half.  For  shelled 
beans  boil  an  hour  in  water  enough  to  cover,  and  dress 
as  above. 

BUTTER  BEANS. 

With  a knife  cut  off  the  ends  of  pods  and  strings 
from  both  sides,  being  very  careful  to  remove  every 
shrea;  cut  every  bean  lengthwise,  in  two  or  three  strips, 
and  iejve  them  for  half  an  hour  in  cold  water.  Much 
more  than  cover  them  with  boiling  watery  boil  till  per- 


120 


TBE  ErEB7DA7  COOK-BOOK. 


fectly  tender.  It  la  well  to  allow  three  hours  for 
ing.  Grain  well,  return  to  kettle,  and  add  a dressing 
of  half  a gill  of  cream,  one  and  a half  ounces  of  butter 
one  even  teaspoon  salt,  and  half  a teaspoon  pepper. 
This  is  sufficient  for  a quart  of  cooked  beans. 

ASPARAGUS  WITH  EGGS. 

Boil  a bunch  of  asparagus  twenty  minutes;  cut  cff 
the  tender  tops  and  lay  in  a deep  pie-plate,  buttering, 
salting,  and  peppering  well.  Beat  four  eggs  just  enough 
to  break  up  the  yolks,  add  £ tahlespoonful  of  melted 
butter,  with  pepper  and  salt,  and  poui'  upon  the  aspara- 
gus. Bake  eight  minutes  iu  a quick  oven,  and  serve 
immediately. 

ASPARAGUS  UPON  TOAST. 

Tie  the  bunch  of  asparagus  up  with  soft  string,  when 
you  have  cut  away  the  wood,  and  cook  about  twenty- 
five  minutes  in  salted  boiling  water.  Have  ready  some 
slices  of  crustless  toast;  dip  each  in  the  asparagus 
liquor;  butter  well  while  hot  and  lay  upon  a heated 
dish.  Drain  the  asparagus,  and  arrange  upon  the  toast. 
Pepper,  salt,  and  butter  generously. 

MUSHROOMS,  STEWED. 

If  fresh,  let  them  lie  in  salt  and  water  about  an  hour, 
then  put  them  in  the  stewpan,  cover  with  water  and  let 
them  cook  two  hours  gently.  Dress  them  with  cream, 
butter  and  flour  as  oysters,  and  season  to  taste. 

MUSHROOMS,  PRIED 

When  peeled  put  them  into  hot  butter  and  let  them 
beat  thoroughly  through-— -too  much  cooking  tougbem 


tBB  BVJBRTDAf  000&  BOOK.  181 

them.  Season  well  with  butter,  pepper  and  salt.  Serve 
on  buttered  toast;  a teaspoon  of  wine  or  vingar  on  each 
mushroom  is  a choice  method. 

BAKED  MUSHROOMS. 

Place  some  large  flat  ones  nicely  cleaned  and  trimmed 
on  thin  slices  of  well-buttered  toast,  putting  a little 
nudgel  of  butter  in  each,  as  also  a snuff  of  pepper  and 
salt;  lay  then  on  a baking-tray,  and  cover  them  care- 
fully; heap  the  hot  ashes  upon  them,  and  let  them  bake 
on  the  hearth  for  fifteen  or  twenty  minutes. 

BROILED  MUSHROOMS. 

Choose  the  largest  sort,  lay  them  on  a small  gridiron 
over  bright  coals;  the  stalks  upward.  Broil  quickly, 
and  serve,  with  butter,  pepper,  and  salt  over. 

MASHED  SQUASH. 

Peel,  seed  and  slice  fresh  summer  squashes.  Lay  in 
cold  water  ten  minutes;  put  into  boiling  water,  a little 
salt,  and  cook  tender.  Twenty  minutes  will  suffice  if 
the  squash  be  young.  Mash  in  a colander,  pressing  out 
all  the  water;  heap  in  a deep  dish,  seasoning  with  pep- 
per, salt  and  butter.  Serve  hot. 

BAKED  SQUASH. 

Cut  in  pieces,  scrape  well,  bake  from  one  to  one  and 
a half  hours,  according  to  the  thickness  of  the  squash; 
to  be  eaten  with  salt  and  butter  as  sweet  potatoes. 

FRIED  SQUASHES. 

Cut  the  squash  into  thin  slices,  and  sprinkle  it  with 
salt;  let  it  stand  a few  moments;  then  beat  two  eggs, 
and  dip  the  squash  into  the  egg;  then  fry  it  brown  in 
butter. 


129  THE  EVERYDAY  COOK-BOOK. 

STEWED  CELERY 

Is  an  excellent  winter  disk,  and  is  very  easily  cooked. 
Wash  the  stalks  thoroughly,  and  boil  in  well-salted 
water  till  tender,  which  will  be  in  about  twenty  minutes. 
After  it  is  made  ready  as  above,  drain  it  thoroughly, 
place  it  on  toasted  bread,  and  pour  over  it  a quantity  of 
sauce.  A sauce  of  cream,  seasoned  with  a little  mace, 
may  be  served  over  the  celery.  It  may  also  be  served 
with  melted  butter. 

STUFFED  EGG-PLANT. 

Cut  the  egg-plant  in  two;  scrape  out  all  the  inside  and 
put  it  in  a saucepan  with  a little  minced  ham;  cover 
with  water  and  boil  with  salt;  drain  off  the  water;  add 
two  tablespoonfuls  grated  crumbs,  tablespoonful  butter, 
half  a minced  onion,  salt  and  pepper;  stuff  each  half  of 
the  hull  with  the  mixture;  add  a small  lump  of  butter  to 
each,  and  bake  fifteen  minutes. 


fss  EVEBYDAi  OQK’BQQK. 


i2d 


SAUCES  FOR  MEATS,  FISH,  POUL- 
TRY OR  VEGETABLES. 


TO  MAKE  DRAWN  BUTTER. 

Put  half  a pint  of  milk  in  a perfectly  clean  stewpan, 
and  set  it  over  a moderate  fire;  put  into  a pint  bowl  a 
heaping  tablespoonful  of  wheat  flour,  quarter  of  a 
pound  of  sweet  butter,  and  a saltspoonful  of  salt;  work 
these  well  together  v/ith  the  back  of  a spoon,  then 
pour  into  it,  stirring  it  all  the  time,  ha’"  a pint  of  boil- 
ing water;  when  it  is  smooth,  s’lr  1 into  the  boiling 
milk,  let  it  simmer  for  five  minutes  or  more,  and  it  is 
done. 

Drawn  butter  made  after  this  receipt  will  be  found 
to  be  most  excellent;  it  may  be  made  less  rich  by  using 
less  butter. 

PARSLEY  SAUCE. 

Make  a drawn  butter  as  directed,  dip  a bunch  of 
parsley  into  boiling  water,  then  cut  it  fine,  and  stir  into 
the  drawn  butter  a few  minutes  before  taking  it  up. 

EGG  SAUCE. 

Make  a drawn  butter;  chop  two  hard-boiled  eggs 
itnite  fine,  the  white  and  yolk  separately,  and  stir  it 
Jnto  the  sauce  befoi’e  serving  This  is  use^  for  boiled 
Ssh  or  vegetables. 


124 


TffE  EVEBYDAT  CCOK-BOOS. 


0IJION  SAUCE. 

Peel  some  nice  \vu  X c ■ Li.  \)  ij.  .r:  ^ i.  i boil  them  tender; 
press  the  water  from  them ; chop  them  fine,  and  put 
them  to  a half  pint  of  hot  milk;  add  a bit  of  butter, 
and  a teaspoonful  of  salt,  and  pepper  to  taste.  Serve 
with  boiled  veal,  or  pouity,  or  mutton. 

ANCHOVY  SAUCE. 

Make  the  butter  sauce,  and  stir  into  it  four  table- 
spoonfuls of  essence  of  anchovy  and  one  of  lemon-juice. 

BKEAD  SAUCE. 

One  pint  milk,  one  cup  bread-crumbs  (very  fine),  one 
onion,  sliced;  a pinch  of  mace,  pepper  and  salt  to  taste, 
three  tablespoonfuls  butter.  Simmer  the  sliced  onion  in 
the  milk  until  tender;  strain  the  milk  and  pour  over  the 
bread-crumbs,  which  should  be  put  into  a saucepan. 
Cover  and  soak  half  an  hour;  beat  smooth  with  an  egg- 
whip,  add  the  seasoning  and  butter;  stir  in  well,  boil 
up  once;  and  serve  in  a tureen.  If  it  is  too  thick,  add 
boiling  water  and  more  butter. 

This  sauce  is  for  roast  poultry.  Some  people  add 
some  of  the  gravy  from  the  dripping-pan,  first  strain* 
ing  it  and  beating  it  well  in  with  the  sauce. 

TOMATO  SAUCE 

Can  be  cheaply  made  either  from  the  fresh  fruit  or  fwwti 
the  canned  tomatoes,  which  are  on  sale  in  every  grocei*R 
shop.  Squeeze  as  much  as  you  require  through  a sieve, 
and  then  simmer  slowly  for  a little  time  in  a few  table- 
spoonfuls of  beef  gravy,  season  with  pepper  and  salt 
I^cellent  for  chops  and  cutlets,  or  for  roasted  beef. 


TEE  EVERYDAY  COOKBOOK. 


136 


TOMATO  MUSTABD. 

One  peck  of  ripe  tomatoes;  boiled  with  two  onions, 
six  red  peppers,  four  cloves  of  garlic,  for  one  hour;  tiien 
add  a half  pint  or  half  pound  of  salt,  three  tahlespG,ons 
black  pepper,  half  ounce  ginger,  half  ounce  allspice, 
half  ounce  mace,  half  ounce  cloves;  then  boil  again  for 
one  hour  longer,  and  when  cold  add  one  pint  of  vinegar 
and  a quarter  pound  of  mustard;  and  if  you  like  it  very 
hot,  a tablespoonful  of  Cayenne. 

MINT  SAUCE. 

Mix  one  tablespoon  of  white  sugar  to  half  a teacup  of 
good  vinegar;  add  the  mint  and  let  it  infuse  for  half  an 
hour  in  a cool  place  before  sending  to  the  table.  Serve 
with  roast  lamb  or  mutton. 

CELEBY  SAUCE. 

Mix  two  teaspoons  of  flour  with  half  a teacup  of 
butter;  have  ready  a pint  of  boiling  milk;  stir  the  flour 
and  butter  into  the  milk;  take  three  heads  of  celery,  cut 
into  small  bits,  and  boil  for  a few  minutes  in  water, 
which  strain  off;  put  the  celery  into  the  meltijd  butter, 
and  keep  stirred  over  the  fire  for  five  or  ten  minutes. 
This  is  very  nice  with  boiled  fowl  or  turkey, 

GOVEBNOB’S  SAUCE. 

One  peck  of  green  tomatoes,  four  large  onions,  six 
rep  peppers,  one  teacup  grated  horseradish,  one  teaspoon 
Cayenne  and  one  of  black  pepper,  one  teaspoon  mustard, 
half  cup  sugar;  slice  the  tomatoes  and  sprinkle  one  tea. 
cup  salt  on,  and  lay  all  night;  drain  well  in  the  morning, 
then  simmer  all  together  till  cooked  throu^. 


TEE  EVERYDAY  COOKBOOK. 


CKEAM  SAUCE. 

One  cupfull  of  milk,  a teaspoonful  of  flour  and  a 
tablespoonful  of  butter,  salt  and  pepper.  Pnt.the  butter 
in  a small  frying-pan,  and  -when  bot,  but  not  brown, 
add  the  flour.  Stir  until  smooth;  then  gradually  add 
the  milk.  Let  it  boil  up  once.  Season  to  taste  with 
salt  and  pepper,  and  servo.  This  is  nice  to  cut  cold 
potatoes  into  and  let  them  just  heat  through.  They  are 
then  creamed  potatoes.  It  also  ansvv’ers  as  a sauce  for 
other  vegetables,  omelets,  fish  and  sweetbi’eads,  or, 
indeed,  for  anything  that  requires  a white  sauce.  If 
you  have  plenty  of  cream,  use  it,  and  omit  the  butter. 

UUSSIAN  SAUCE. 

(Piquant)  may  be  thus  made:  Grated  horseradish, 
four  tablespoonful  weak  mustard,  one  spoonful,  sugar, 
half  a spoonfuls,  a little  salt,  two  or  three  grains  of  Cay- 
enne, and  a spoonful  or  two  of  vinegar.  Mix  thoroughly, 
and  serve  to  cold  meat.  When  wanted  for  fish,  let  it  be 
added  to  melted  butter — two  parts  butter  to  one  of 
sauce. 

MAYONNAISE  SAUCE. 

Mix  in  a two-quart  bowl  one  even  teaspoon  ground 
mustard,  one  of  salt,  and  one  and  a half  of  vinegar; 
beat  in  the  yolk  of  a raw  egg,  then  add  very  gradually 
half  a pint  pure  olive  oil  (or  melted  butter),  beating 
briskly  all  the  time.  The  mixture  will  become  a very 
thick  batter.  Closely  covered,  it  will  keep  for  weeks  in 
a cold  place,  and  is  delicious. 


TEE  EVERYDAY  COOK-BOOK. 


m 


OYSTER  SAUCE. 

Take  a pint  of  oysters,  and  save  out  a little  of  their 
(iquor.  Put  them  v/ith  their  remaining  liquor,  and 
some  mace  and  nutmeg,  into  a covered  saucepan,  and 
simmer  them  on  hot  coals  about  ten  minutes.  Then 
drain  them.  Oysters  for  sauce  should  be  large.  Having 
prepared  in  a saucepan  some  drawn  or  melted  butter 
(mixed  with  oyster  liquid  instead  of  water),  pour  it  into 
a sauceboat,  add  the  oysters  to  it,  and  serve  it  up  with 
boiled  poultry,  or  with  boiled  fresh  lish.  Celery,  first 
boiled  and  then  chopped,  is  an  improvement  to  oyster 
sauce. 

LOBSTER  SAUCE. 

Put  the  coral  and  spawn  of  a boiled  lobster  into  a 
mortar,  with  a tablespoonful  of  butter,  pound  it  to  a 
smooth  mass,  then  rub  it  through  a sieve;  melt  nearly 
a quarter  of  a pound  of  sweet  butter,  with  a wdneglass 
of  water,  or  vinegar;  add  a teaspoonful  of  made  mus- 
tard; stir  in  the  coral  and  spawn,  and  a little  salt  and 
pepper;  stir  it  until  it  is  smooth,  and  serve.  Some  of 
the  meat  of  the  lobster  may  be  chopped  fine,  and  stirred 
into  it. 

CAPER  SAUCE. 

Make  a butter  sauce,  and  stir  into  it  one  tablespoon- 
ful of  lemon-juice,  two  of  capers,  and  one  of  essence 
of  anchovy. 

MUSTARD  SAUCE. 

Stir  three  tablespoonfuls  of  mixed  mustard  and  a 
speck  of  Cayenne  into  a butter  sauce.  This  is  nice  for 
deviled  turkey  and  broiled  smoked  herrings. 


128 


TEE  EVERYDAY  COOK-BOOE. 


CUERY  SAUCE. 

One  tablespoonful  of  butter,  one  of  flour,  one  tea- 
spoonful of  curry  powder,  one  large  slice  of  onion,  one 
large  cupful  of  stock,  salt  and  pepper  to  taste.  Cut 
the  onion  fine  and  fry  brown  in  the  butter.  Add  the 
flour  and  curry  powder.  Stir  for  one  minute,  add  the 
stock,  and  season  with  salt  and  pepper.  Simmer  five 
minutes;  then  strain,  and  serve.  This  sauce  oan  be 
served  with  a broil  or  saute  of  meat  or  fish. 

CRANBERRY  SAUCE. 

After  removing  all  soft  berries,  wash  thoroughly, 
place  for  about  two  minutes  in  scalding  water,  remove 
and  to  every  pound  of  fruit  add  thi-ee-quarters  of  a 
pound  of  granulated  sugar  and  a half  pint  of  water; 
stew  together  over  a moderate  but  steady  fire.  Be  care- 
ful to  cover  and  not  to  stir  the  fruit,  but  occasionally 
shake  the  vessel,  or  apply  a gentler  heat  if  in  danger  of 
sticking  or  burning.  If  attention  to  these  particulars 
be  given,  the  berries  will  retain  their  shape  to  a consid- 
erable extent,  which  adds  greatly  to  their  appearance 
on  the  table.  Boil  from  five  to  seven  minutes,  remove 
from  fire,  turn  into  a deep  dish  and  set  aside  to  cool. 
If  to  kept,  they  can  be  put  up  at  once  in  air-tight  jars. 
Or,  for  strained  sauce,  one  and  a half  pounds  of  fruit 
should  be  stewed  in  one  pint  of  water  for  ten  or  twelve 
minutes,  or  until  quite  soft,  then  strained  through  a col- 
ander or  fine  wire  sieve,  and  three-quarters  of  a pound 
of  sugar  thoroughly  stirred  into  the  pulp  thus  obtained; 
after  cooling  it  is  ready  for  use.  Serve  with  roast  tur- 
key or  game.  When  to  be  kept  for  a long  time  with- 
out sealing,  more  sugar  may  be  added,  but  its  too  free 
use  impairs  the  peculiar  cranberry  flavor.  For  dinner 
sauce  half  a pound  is  more  economical,  and  really  pref- 
erable to  three-quarters,  as  given  above.  It  is  better, 


THE  EVERYDAY  COOK-BOOK. 


129 


though  not  necessary,  to  use  a porcelain  kettle,  Some 
prefer  to  add  sugar  till  the  fruit  is  almost  done,  think- 
ing this  plan  makes  it  more  tender,  and  preserves  the 
color  better. 

POET  WINE  SAUCE  FOR  GAME. 

Half  a tumbler  of  currant  jelly,  half  a tumbler  of 
port  wine,  half  a tumbler  of  stock,  half  a teaspoonful 
of  salt,  two  tablespoonfuls  of  lemon  juice,  four  cloves, 
a speck  of  Cayenne.  Simmer  the  cloves  and  stock  to- 
gether for  half  an  hour.  Strain  on  the  other  ingredients, 
and  let  all  melt  together.  Part  of  the  gravy  ixoni  the 
game  may  be  added  to  it. 

CURRANT  JELLY  SAUCE. 

Three  tablespoonfuls  of  butter,  one  onion,  one  bay 
leaf,  one  sprig  of  celery,  two  tablespoonfuls  of  vinegar, 
half  a cupful  of  currant  jelly,  ciie  tablespoonful  of 
flour,  one  pint  of  stock,  salt,  pepper.  Cook  the  butter 
and  onion  until  the  latter  begins  to  color.  Add  the 
flour  and  herbs.  Stir  until  brown;  add  the  stock,  and 
simmer  twenty  minutes.  Strain,  and  skim  off  all  the 
fat.  Add  the  jelly,  and  stir  over  the  fire  until  it  is 
melted.  Serve  with  game. 

APPLE  SAUCE. 

Peel,  quarter,  and  core  rich  tart  apples;  put  to  them 
a very  little  water,  cover  them,  and  set  the'ii  over  the 
fire;  when  tender,  mash  them  smooth,  and  serve  with 
roasted  pork,  goose,  or  any  other  gross  meat. 


180 


THE  EVEBYDAY  COOK-BOOK. 


BREAD  AND  BREAKFAST  CAKES. 


YEAST. 

Put  tvro  quarts  of  water  and  two  tablespoonfuls  oi 
hops  on  to  boil.  Pare  and  grate  six  large  potatoes. 
When  the  hops  and  water  hoil  strain  the  W'ater  on  the 
grated  potatoes,  and  stir  w^eli.  Place  on  the  stove  and 
boil  up  once.  Add  half  a cupful  of  sugar  and  one- 
fourth  of  a cupful  of  salt.  Let  the  mixture  get  blood- 
warm;  then  add  one  cupful  of  yeast,  or  one  cake  of 
compressed  yeast,  and  let  it  rise  in  a w^arm  place  five 
or  six  hours.  When  n'ell-risen  turn  into  a stone  jug. 
Cork  this  tightly  and  set  in  a cool  place. 

PLAIN  WHITE  FAMILY  BREAD. 

Take  one  pint  of  flour  and  half  a pint  of  good  hop 
yeast,  and  stir  it  together  about  five  o’clock  in  the  after- 
noon; at  nine  put  one-half  gallon  of  flour  in  a tray,  put 
the  sponge  in  the  middle  of  the  flour  with  a piece  of 
lard  as  large  as  a walnut.  Knead  it  all  up  with  tepid 
water  made  salt  with  two  teaspoonfuls  or  more  to  taste; 
work  it  well,  and  put  it  in  a jar  to  rise.  Next  morn- 
ing knead  it  over  with  a little  flour;  make  in  two  loaves, 
and  set  it  in  a warm  place  or  oven  until  ready;  then 
put  it  to  bake,  and  when  done,  wrap  it  in  a nice  coarse 
towel.  If  you  have  no  sugar  in  the  yeast  you  use,  stir 
a large  teaspoonful  in  it  before  putting  it  in  the  flour. 


THE  EVERYDAY  COOK-BOOK. 


GRAHAM  BREAD. 

Take  a little  over  a quart  of  warm  water,  one-hal  cu{» 
brown  sugar  or  molasses,  one-fourth  cup  hot  yeast,  and 
one  and  one-half  teaspoons  salt;  thicken  the  water  with 
unbolted  flour  to  a thin  batter;  add  sugai’,  salt  and 
yeast,  and  stir  in  more  flour  until  quite  stiff.  In  the 
morning  add  a small  teaspoon  soda,  and  flour  enough  to 
make  the  batter  stiff  as  can  bo  stirred  with  a spoon,  put 
it  into  pans  and  let  rise  again ; then  bake  in  even  oven, 
not  too  hot  at  first;  keep  warm  vMle  rising;  smooth  over 
the  loaves  with  a spoon  or  knife  dipped  in  water. 

BOSTON  BROWN  BREAD. 

One  heaping  coffee-cup  each  of  corn,  rye  a«u  Graham 
meal.  The  rye  meal  should  bo  as  fine  as  the  Graham, 
or  rye  flour  may  be  used.  Sift  the  three  kinds  together 
as  closely  as  possible,  and  beat  together  thoroughly 
with  two  cups  New  Orleans  or  Porto  Rico  molasses,  tv/o 
cups  sweet  milk,  one  cup  sour  milk,  one  dessertspoon 
soda,  one  teaspoon  salt;  pour  into  a tin  form,  place  in  a 
kettle  of  cold  water,  put  on  and  boil  four  hours.  Put 
on  to  cook  as  soon  as  mixed.  It  may  appear  to  be  too 
thin,  but  it  is  not,  as  this  receipt  has  never  been  known 
to  fail.  Serve  warm,  ivith  baked  beans  or  Thanksgiv- 
ing turkey.  The  bread  should  not  quite  fill  the  form 
(or  tin  pail  with  a cover  will  answer),  as  it  must  have 
room  to  swell.  See  that  the  water  does  not  boil  up  to 
the  top  of  the  form;  also  take  care  it  *joes  not  boil  en- 
tiaely  away  or  stop  boiling.  To  serve  it,  remove  the  lid 
and  set  it  a few  moments  into  the  open  oven  to  dry  the 
top,  and  it  v^fill  then  turn  out  in  perfect  shape.  This 
bread  can  be  used  as  a pudding,  and  served  with  a sauce 
made  of  thick  scmr  cream,  well  sweetened  and  seasoned, 
with  nutmeg,  or  it  is  good  toasted  the  next  day. 


IS2 


TEE  EVERYDAY  COOK-BOOK, 


COEN  BEEAD. 

Sift  three  quarts  of  corn  meal,  add  a tablespoonful  of' 
salt,  one  teaspoonful  baking  powder,  and  mix  sufficient 
water  with  it  to  make  a thin  batter.  Cover  it  with  a 
bread-cloth  and  set  it  to  rise.  When  ready  to  bake  stir 
it  well,  pour  it  into  a baking-pan,  and  bake  slov  ly.  Use 
cold  water  in  summer  and  hot  water  in  wdnter. 

STEAMED  BROWN  BREAD- 

One  quart  each  of  milk  and  Indian  meal,  one  pint  rye  . 
meal,  one  cup  of  molases,  two  tablespoonfuls  of  soda. 
Add  a little  salt  and  steam  four  hours. 

PARKER  HOUSE  ROLLS. 

One  teacup  home-made  yeast,  a little  salt,  one  table, 
spoon  sugar,  a piece  of  lard  size  of  an  egg,  one  pint 
milk,  flour  sufficient  to  mix.  Put  the  milk  on  the  stove 
cto  scald,  with  the  lard  in  it.  Prepare  the  flour  with 
salt,  sugar  and  yeast.  Then  add  the  milk,  not  too  hot. 
Knead  thoroughly  when  mixed  at  ni^t;  in  the  morning 
but  very  slight  kneading  is  necessary.  Then  roll  out 
and  cut  with  large  biscuit  cutter.  Spread  a little  but- 
ter on  each  roll  and  lap  togeAer.  Let  them  rise  very 
light,  then  bake  in  a quick  oven. 

FRENCH  ROLLS. 

One  pint  of  milk,  scalded;  put  into  it  while  hot  half 
a cup  of  sugar  and  one  teaspoon  of  butter.  When  the 
milk  is  cool,  add  a little  salt  and  half  a cup  of  yeast,  or 
one  compressed  yeast  cake;  stir  in  flour  to  make  a stiff 
sponge,  and  when  light,  mix  as  for  bread.  Let  it  rise 
until  light,  punch  it  dowm  with  the  hand,  and  let  it  rise 
again — repeat  two  or  three  times,  then  turn  the  dou^ 


THE  EVERYDAY  COOKBOOK. 


188 


on  to  the  moulding-board  and  pound  with  the  rolling-pin 
until  thin  enough  to  cut.  Cut  out  with  a tumbler, 
brvish  the  surface  of  each  one  with  melted  butter,  and 
fold  over.  Let  the  rolls  rise  on  the  tins;  bake,  and 
while  warm  brush  over  the  surface  with  melted  butter 
to  make  the  crust  tender. 

BUNS. 

Break  one  egg  into  a cup  and  fill  with  sweet  milk  ; 
mix  with  it  half  cup  yeast,  half  cup  butter,  one  cup 
sugar,  enough  flour  to  make  a soft  dough;  flavor  with 
nutmeg.  Let  it  rise  till  very  light,  then  mold  into  bis- 
cuits with  a few  currants.  Let  rise  a second  time  in 
pan;  bake,  and  when  nearly  done,  glaze  with  a little 
molasses  and  milk.  Use  the  same  cup,  no  matter  about 
the  size,  for  each  measure. 

BISCUIT. 

Dissolve  one  rounded  tablespoon  of  butter  in  a pint 
of  hot  milk;  when  lukewarm  stir  in  one  quart  of  flour, 
and  one  beaten  egg,  a little  salt,  and  a teacup  of  yeast; 
work  into  dough  until  smooth.  If  winter,  set  in  a warm 
place;  if  summer,  a cool  one  to  rise.  In  the  morning 
work  softly  and  roll  out  one-half  inch  and  cut  into  bis- 
cuit and  set  to  rise  for  thirty  minutes,  when  they  will  be 
ready  to  bake  These  are  delicious. 

TO  MAKE  RUSKS. 

To  every  pound  of  flour  add  two  ounces  of  butter, 
one-quarter  pint  of  milk,  two  ounces  of  loaf  sugar, 
three  eggs,  one  tablespoonful  of  yeast.  Put  the  milk 
and  butter  into  a saucepan,  and  keep  shaking  it  round 
until  the  latter  is  melted.  Put  the  flour  into  a basin 
with  11)0  sugar,  mix  these  well  together,  and  beat  the 
eggs,  otir  them  with  the  yeast  to  the  milk  and  butter, 


134 


THE  EVERYDAY  COOKBOOK. 


and  with  this  liquid  work  the  flour  into  a smooth  dough 
Cover  a cloth  over  the  basin,  .and  leave  the  dough  to  ris^ 
by  the  side  of  the  fire;  then  knead  it,  and  divide  it  into 
twelve  pieces;  place  them  in  a brisk  oven,  and  bake  for 
about  twenty  minutes.  Take  the  rusks  out,  break  them 
in  half,  and  then  set  them  in  the  oven  to  get  crisp  on 
the  other  side.  When  cold,  they  should  be  put  into  tin 
cannisters  to  keep  them  dry;  and,  if  intended  for  the 
cheese  course,  the  sifted  sugar  should  be  omitted. 

SWEET  MILK  GEMS. 

Beat  an  egg  well,  add  a pint  new  milk,  a little  salt, 
and  Graham  flour  until  it  will  drop  off  the  spoon  nicely; 
heat  and  butter  the  gem-pans  before  dropping  in  the 
dough;  bake  in  a hot  oven  twenty  minutes. 

BREAKFAST  GEMS. 

One  cup  sweet  milk,  one  and  a half  cups  flour,  one 
egg,  one  teaspoon  salt,  one  teaspoon  baking  powder, 
beaten  together  five  minutes;  bake  in  hot  gem-pans  in  a 
hot  oven  about  fifteen  minutes. 

GRAHAM  BREAKFAST  GEMS. 

Two  cups  of  Graham  flour,  one  cup  of  wheat  flour, 
two  eggs  well  beaten;  mix  with  sweet  milk,  to  make  a 
very  thin  batter;  bake  in  gem-irons;  have  the  irons  hot, 
then  set  them  on  the  upper  grate  in  the  oven;  will  bake 
in  fifteen  minutes. 

BUCKWHEAT  CAKES. 

One  quart  buckwheat  flour;  four  tablespoonfuls 
feast;  one  teaspoonful  salt;  one  handful  Indian  meal; 
Wo  tablespooofuls  tigqhissps — 7iot  syrup.  Warip  wiUff 


THE  EVERT  DAY  COOKBOOK 


enough  to  make  a thin  batter.  Beat  very  wek  ^ A set 
to  rise  in  a warm  place.  If  the  batter  is  in  the  least 
sour  in  the  morning;  stir  in  a very  little  soda  dissolved 
in  hot  water.  Mix  in  an  earthen  crock,  and  leave  some 
in  the  bottom  each  morning — a cupful  or  so — to  serve 
as  sponge  for  the  next  night,  instead  of  getting  fresh 
yeast.  In  cold  weather  this  plan  can  be  successfully 
pursued  for  a week  or  ten  days  without  setting  a new 
supply.  Of  course  you  add  the  umal  quantity  of  flour, 
etc.,  every  night,  and  beat  up  Vv^elL  Do  not  make  your 
cakes  too  small.  Buckwheats  should  be  of  generous 
size.  Some  put  two-thirds  buckwheat,  one-third  oat- 
meal, omitting  the  Indian. 

FLANNEL  OAKES. 

Beat  six  eggs  very  light,  stir  in  them  two  pounds  of 
flour,  one  gill  of  yeast,  small  spoonful  of  salt,  and 
sufficient  milk  to  make  a thick  batter.  Make  them  at 
night  for  breakfast,  and  at  ten  in  the  morning  for  tea. 
Have  your  griddle  hot,  grease  it  well,  and  bake  as  buck- 
wheat. Butter  and  send  them  hot  to  the  table,  com- 
mencing after  the  family  are  seated. 

RICE  GRIDDLE-CAKES. 

Boil  half  a cup  of  rice;  when  cold,  mix  one  quart 
sweet  milk,  the  yolks  of  four  eggs,  and  flour  sufficient 
to  make  a stiff  batter;  beat  the  wh^es  to  a froth,  stir 
in  one  teaspoon  soda,  and  two  of  cream  tartar;  add  a 
little  salt,  and  lastly,  the  whites  of  eggs;  bake  on  a 
griddle.  A nice  way  to  serve  is  to  spread  them  while 
hot  with  butter,  and  almost  any  kind  of  preserves  or 
jelly;  roll  them  up  neatly,  cut  off  the  ends,  sprinkle 
them  with  sugar,  and  serve  immediatoiy. 


186 


THE  EVERYDAY  COOK-BOOK. 


FEEHCH  PANCAKES. 

Two  eggs,  two  ounces  of  butter,  two  ounces  of  sifted 
sugar,  two  ounces  of  flour,  half  pint  of  new  milk. 
Beat  Ihc  eggs  thoroughly,  and  put  them  into  a basin 
with  the  butter,  which  should  be  beaten  to  a cream;  stir 
in  the  sugar  and  flour,  and  when  these  ingredients  are 
w%‘ll  mixed,  add  the  milk,  keep  stirring  and  beating  the 
mixture  for  a few  minutes;  put  it  on  buttered  plates, 
and  bake  in  a quick  oven  for  twenty  minutes.  Serve 
with  a cut  lemon  and  sifted  sugar,  or  pile  the  pancakes 
high  on  a dish,  with  a layer  of  preserves  or  marmalade 
between  each. 

PANCAKES. 

Two  cups  of  prepared  flour,  six  eggs,  one  saltspoon- 
ful  of  salt,  milk  to  make  a thm  batter.  Beat  the  eggs 
light;  add  salt,  two  cups  of  milk,  then  the  whites  and 
flour  alternately  with  milk,  until  the  batter  is  of  the 
right  consistency.  Run  a teaspoonful  of  lard  over  the 
bottom  of  a hot  frying-pan,  pour  in  a large  ladleful  of 
batter  and  fry  quickly.  Roll  the  pancake  up  like  a 
sheet  of  paper;  lay  upon  a hot  dish;  put  in  more  lard 
and  fry  another  pancake.  Keep  hot  over  boiling  water, 
sending  half  a dozen  to  the  table  at  a time. 

BREAD  FRITTERS. 

One  quart  milk — boiling  hot;  tw'o  cups  of  fine  bread- 
crumbs; three  eggs;  one  teaspoonful  nutmeg;  one 
tablespoonful  butter — melted;  one  saltspoonful  salt, 
and  the  same  of  soda,  dissolved  in  hot  water.  Soak 
the  bread  in  the  boiling  milk  ten  minutes,  in  a covered 
bowl.  Beat  to  a smooth  paste;  add  the  whipped  xoiks, 
<b'‘  butter,  salt,  soda,  and  finally  the  whites,  w'hipped 
fetJUtl, 


fHE  EVERYDAY  COOKBOOK. 


18? 


QUICK  SALLY  LUNN. 

One  cup  of  sugar,  half  cup  of  butter,  stir  well 
together,  and  then  add  one  or  two  eggs ; put  ia  one 
good  pint  of  sweet  milk,  and  with  sufficient  flour  to 
make  a batter  about  as  stiff  as  a cake ; put  in  three 
teaspoons  of  baking  powder ; bake  and  eat  hot  with 
butter,  for  tea  or  breakfast. 

BREAKFAST  CAKE. 

One  pint  of  flour,  three  tablespoons  of  butter,  three 
tablespoons  of  sugar,  one  egg,  one  cup  sweet  milk,  one 
teaspoon  cream  tartar,  half  teaspoon  soda  ; to  be  eaten 
wdth  butter. 

QUICK  WAFFLES. 

Two  pints  sweet  milk,  one  cup  butter  (melted),  sifted 
flour  to  make  a soft  batter  ; add  the  well  beaten  yolks 
of  six  eggs,  then  the  beaten  whites,  and  lastly  (just 
before  baking),  four  teaspoons  baking  powder,  beating 
very  hard  and  fast  for  a few  minutes.  These  are  very 
gocKl  with  four  or  five  eggs,  but  much  better  with  more. 

JOHNNY  CAKE. 

Two-thirds  teaspoon  soda,  three  tablespoons  sugar, 
one  teaspoon  cream  tartar,  one  egg,  one  cup  sweet 
milk,  six  tablespoons  Indian  meal,  three  tablespoonfuls 
flour,  and  a little  salt.  This  makes  a thin  batter. 

MUSH. 

Indian  o’*  oatmeal  mush  is  best  made  in  the  follow- 
ing manner  : Put  fresh  water  in  a kettle  over  the  fire 
to  boil,  and  put  in  some  salt ; when  the  water  boils,  stir 
in  handful  by  handful  corn  or  oatmeal  until  thick 
enough  for  use.  In  order  to  have  excellent  mush,  the 


THE  EVERIDAY  COOKBOOK. 


meal  should  be  allowd  to  cook  well  and  long  as  pos> 
si ble  while  thin,  and  before  the  final  handful  is  added. 
When  desired  to  be  fried  for  breakfast,  turn  it  into  an 
earthen  dish  and  set  away  to  cool.  Then  cut  in  slices 
when  you  wish  to  fry  ; dip  each  piece  in  beaten  egga 
and  fry  on  a hot  griddle. 

CORN  MUSH. 

Put  four  quarts  fresh  water  in  a kettle  to  boil,  salt 
to  taste  ; when  it  begins  to  boil  stir  in  one  and  a half 
quarts  meal,  letting  it  sift  through  the  fingers  slowly  to 
prevent  lumps,  adding  it  a little  faster  at  the  last,  until 
a s thick  as  can  be  conveniently  stirred  with  one  hand  ; 
set  in  the  oven  in  the  kettle,  (or  take  out  into  a pan), 
liake  an  hour,  and  it  will  be  thoroughly  cooked.  It 
< akes  corn  meal  so  long  to  cook  thoroughly  that  it  is 
very  difficult  to  boil  it  until  done  without  burning. 
Excellent  for  frying  when  cold.  Use  a hard  wood 
paddle,  two  feet  long,  with  a blade  two  inches  wide  and 
seven  inches  long,  to  stir  with.  The  thorough  cooking 
and  baking  in  oven  afterwards  takes  away  all  the  raw 
taste  that  mush  is  apt  to  have,  and  adds  much  to  its 
sweetness  and  delicious  flavor. 

GRAHAM  MUSH. 

Sift  meal  slowly  into  boiling  salted  water,  stirring 
briskly  until  it  is  thick  as  can  be  stirred  with  one  hand; 
serve  with  milk,  or  cream  and  sugar,  or  butter  and 
syrup.  It  is  much  improved  by  removing  from  the 
kettle  to  a pan  as  soon  as  thoroughly  mixed,  and  steam-; 
ing  for  three  or  four  hours.  It  may  also  be  eaten  cold, 
or  sliced  and  fried  like  corn  mush. 


THE  EVEBIDAY  COOKBOOK. 


SALADS,  PICKLES  AND  CATSUR 


LETTUCE. 

Th^  early  lettuce,  and  first  fine  salad,  are  five  or  six 
leaves  in  a cluster;  their  early  appearance  is  their  greatest 
recommendation;  cabbage  or  white-heart  lettuce  is  later 
and  much  more  delicate;  break  the  leaves  apart  one  by 
one  from  the  stalk  and  throw  them  into  a pan  of  cold 
water;  rinse  them  well,  lay  them  into  a salad  bowl  or  a 
deep  dish,  lay  the  largest  leaves  first,  put  the  next  size 
upon  them,  then  lay  on  the  finest  white  leaves;  cut  hard- 
boiled  eggs  in  slices  or  quarters  and  lay  them  at  equal 
distances  around  the  edge  and  over  the  salad ; serve  with 
vinegar,  oil,  and  made  mustard  in  the  castor.  Or,  hav- 
ing picked  and  washed  the  lettuce,  cut  the  leaves  small; 
put  the  cut  salad  in  a glass  dish  or  bowl,  pour  a salad 
dressing  over  and  serve;  or,  garnish  with  small  red  rad- 
ishes, cut  in  halves  or  slices,  and  hard-boiled  eggs  cut 
in  quarters  or  slices;  pour  a salad  dressing  over  when 
ready  to  serve.  Serve  with  boiled  lobster,  bo^^ed  fowls, 
or  roasted  lamb  or  veal. 

LETTUCE  SALAD. 

Take  the  yolks  of  three  hard-boiled  eggs,  add  salt  and 
mustard  to  taste;  mash  it  fine;  make  a paste  by  adding 
a dessertspoon  of  olive  oil  or  melted  butter  (use  butter 
always  when  it  is  difficult  to  fresh  oil);  mix  thor- 
oughly. and  then  dilute  bv  adding  qradjuaH/u  ^ of 


140 


THE  EVEBTDAT  COOKBOOK. 


vinegar,  and  pour  over  the  letto“e.  Garnish  by  slicing 
another  egg  and  laying  over  the  lettuce.  This  is  suffi- 
cient for  a moderate-sized  dish  of  lettuce. 

SALMON  SALAD. 

One  quart  of  cooked  salmon,  two  heads  of  lettuce, 
two  tablespoonfuls  of  lemon-juice,  one  of  vinegar,  two 
of  capers,  one  teaspoonful  of  salt,  ons-third  of  a tear 
spoonful  i>f  pepper,  one  cupful  of  mayonnaise  dressing, 
or  t he  French  dressing.  Break  up  the  salmon  with  two 
silver  forks.  Add  to  it  the  salt,  pepper,  vinegar  and 
lemon-juice.  Put  in  the  ice-chest  or  some  other  cold 
place,  for  two  or  three  hours.  Prepare  the  lettuce  as 
directed  for  lobster  salad.  At  serving  time,  pick  out 
leaves  enough  to  })order  the  dish.  Cut  or  tear  the  re- 
mainder in  pieces,  and  arrange  these  in  the  center  of  a 
flat  dish.  On  them  heap  the  salmon  lightly,  and  cover 
with  the  dressing.  Now  sprinkle  on  the  capers.  Ar- 
range the  whole  leaves  at  the  base;  and,  if  you  choose, 
lay  one-fourth  of  a thin  slice  of  lemon  on  each  leaf. 

LOBSTEB  SALAD. 

Put  a large  lobster  over  the  Are  in  boiling  water 
slightly  salted;  boil  rapidly  for  about  twenty  minutes; 
when  done  it  will  be  of  a bright  red  color,  and  should 
be  removed,  as  if  boiled  too  long  it  will  be  tough;  when 
cold,  crack  the  claws,  after  first  disjointing,  twist  ofl  tlie 
head  (which  is  used  in  garnishing),  split  the  body  in  two 
iengtWise,  pick  out  the  meat  in  bits  not  too  fine,  saving 
the  coral  separate;  cut  up  a large  head  of  lettuce 
slightly,  and  place  on  a dish  over  which  lay  the  lobster, 
putting  the  coral  around  the  outside.  For  dressing, 
take  the  yolks  of  three  eggs,  beat  well,  add  four  table- 
spoons adad  oil,  droppiiig  it  in  very  slowly,  beating  eS 


THE  EVERYDAY  COOK-BOOK. 


1# 


the  time;  then  add  a little  salt,  Cayenne  pepper,  hall 
teaspoon  mixed  mustard,  and  two  tablespoons  vinegar. 
Four  this  over  the  lobster,  just  before  sending  to  table. 

TOMATO  SALAD. 

Take  the  skin,  juice  and  seeds  from  nice,  fiesh 
tomatoes,  chop  what  remains  with  celery,  and  add  a 
good  salad-dressing. 

SALAD  DRESSING. 

Yolks  of  two  hard-boiled  eggs  rubbed  very  fine  and 
smooth,  one  teaspoon  English  mustard,  one  of  salt,  the 
yolks  of  two  raw  eggs  beaten  into  the  other,  dessert- 
spoon of  fine  sugar.  Add  very  fresh  sweet  oil  poured 
in  by  very  small  quantities,  and  beaten  as  long  as  the 
mixture  continues  to  thicken,  then  add  vinegar  till  as 
thin  as  desired.  If  not  hot  enough  with  mustard,  add 
a little  Cayenne  pepper. 

SARDINE  SALAD.1 

Arrange  one  quart  of  any  kind  of  cooked  fish  on  a 
bed  of  crisp  lettuce.  Split  six  sardines,  and  if  there 
are  any  bones,  remove  them.  Cover  the  fish  with  the 
sardine  dressing.  Over  this  put  the  sardines,  having 
the  ends  meet  in  the  center  of  the  dish.  At  the  base 
of  the  dish  make  a wreath  of  thin  slices  of  lemon. 
Garnish  with  parsley  or  lettuce,  and  serve  immediately. 

FRENCH  SALAD  DRESSING. 

Three  tablespoonfuls  of  oil,  one  of  vinegar,  one  salt- 
spoonful  of  salt,  one-half  a saltspoonful  of  pepper.  Put 
^ salt  and  pepper  in  a cup,  and  add  one  tet^e^on 
fli  qS  tim  oiL  When  thoroughly  mimd,  adid  tl»  m 


142 


THE  EVERYDAY  COOHBOOK. 


mainder  of  the  oil  and  the  vinegar.  This  is  dressing 
enough  for  a salad  for  six  persons.  If  you  like  the 
flavor  of  onion,  grate  a little  juice  into  the  dressing. 
The  juice  is  obtained  by  first  peeling  the  onion,  and  then 
grating  with  a coarse  grater,  using  a good  deal  of 
pressure.  Two  strokes  will  give  about  two  drops  of 
juice. 

CREAM  DRESSING  FOR  COLD  SLAW. 

Two  tablespoons  whipped  sweet  cream,  two  of  sugar, 
and  four  of  vinegar;  beat  well  and  pour  over  cabbage, 
previously  cut  very  fine  and  seasoned  with  salt. 

CHICKEN  SALAD. 

Boil  one  chicken  tender;  chop  moderately  fine  the 
whites  of  twelve  hard-boiled  eggs  and  the  chicken;  add 
equal  quantities  of  chopped  celery  and  cabbiigo;  mash 
the  yolks  fine,  add  two  tablespoons  butter,  two  of  sugar, 
one  teaspoon  mustard;  pepper  and  salt  to  taste;  and 
lastly,  one-half  cup  good  cider  vinegar;  pour  over  the 
salad  and  mix  thoroughly.  If  no  celery  is  at  hand, 
use  chopped  pickled  cucumbers  or  lettuce  and  celery 
seed.  This  may  be  mixed  two  or  three  days  before 
using. 

RED  VEGETABLE  SALAD. 

One  pint  of  cold  boiled  potatoes,  one  pint  of  cold 
boiled  beets,  one  pint  of  uncooked  red  cabbage,  six 
tablespoonfuls  of  oil,  eight  of  red  vinegar  (that  in 
which  beets  have  been  pickled)  two  teaspoonfuls  of  salt 
(unless  the  vegetables  have  been  cooked  in  salted  watei  ), 
half  a teaspoonful  of  pepper.  Cut  the  potatoes  in  thin 
slices  and  the  beets  fine,  and  slice  the  cabbage  as  thin 
as  possible.  Mix  all  the  ingredients.  Let  stand  in  a 
cold  place  one  hour;  then  serve.  Red  cabbage  and 
celery  may  be  iised  tojxel  ber 


THE  EVERYDAY  COOK-BOOK. 


14k 


CELERY  SALAD. 

One  boiled  egg,  one  raw  egg,  one  tablespoonful 
salad  oil,  one  teaspoonfn.l  white  sugar,  one  saltspoonful 
ef  salt,  one  saltspooiiful  of  pepper,  four  tablespoonfuis 
of  vinegar,  one  teaspoonful  made  mustard.  Pre{)are 
the  dressing  as  for  tomato  salad;  cut  the  celery  into 
bits  half  an  inch  long,  and  season.  Eat  at  once,  before 
the  vinegar  injures  the  crispness  of  the  vegetable. 

COLD  SLAW. 

Chop  or  shred  a small  white  cabbage.  Prepare  a 
dressing  in  the  proportion  of  one  tablespoonful  of  oil  to 
four  of  vinegar,  a teaspoonful  of  made  mustard,  the 
same  quantity  of  salt  and  sugar,  and  half  as  much  pepper. 
Pour  over  the  salad,  adding,  if  you  choose,  three  table- 
spoonfuls of  minced  celery;  toss  up  well  and  put  into  a 
glass  bowl. 

SALAD  DRESSING  (Excellent.) 

Four  eggs,  one  teaspoonful  of  mixed  mustard,  one- 
quarter  teaspoonful  of  white  pepper,  half  that  quantity 
of  Cayenne,  salt  to  taste,  four  tabiepoonfuls  of  cream, 
vinegar. 

Boil  the  eggs  until  hard,  which  will  be  in  about  one- 
quarter  hour  or  twenty  minutes;  put  them  into  cold 
water,  take  off  the  shells,  and  pound  the  yolks  in  a 
mortar  to  a smooth  paste.  Then  add  all  the  other  in- 
gredients, except  the  vinegar,  and  stir  them  well  until 
the  whole  are  thoroughly  incorporated  one  with  the 
other.  Pour  in  sufficient  vinegar  to  make  it  of  the 
eonsistency  of  cream,  taking  care  to  add  but  little  at  a 
time.  TSie  mixture  will  then  bp  ready  for  use. 


144 


THE  EVERYDAY  COOKBOOK. 


PICKLED  CUCUMBERS. 

Wash  and  wipe  six  hundred  small  cucumbers  and 
two  quarts  of  peppers.  Put  them  in  a tub  with  one 
and  a half  cupfuls  of  salt,  and  a piece  of  alum  as  large 
as  an  egg.  Heat  to  the  boiling  point  three  gallons  of 
cider  vinegar  and  three  pints  of  water.  Add  a quarter 
of  a pound  each  of  whole  cloves,  whole  allspice  and 
stick  cinnamon,  and  two  ounces  of  white  mustard  seed, 
and  pour  over  the  pickles. 

TO  PICKLE  ONIONS. 

Peel  the  onions  until  they  are  white,  scald  them  in 
strong  salt  water,  then  take  them  up  with  a skimmer; 
make  vinegar  enough  to  cover  them,  boiling  hot;  strev.' 
over  the  onions  whole  pepper  and  white  mustard  seed, 
pour  the  vinegar  over  to  cover  them;  when  cold,  put 
them  in  wide  mouthed  bottles,  and  cork  them  close, 
A tablespoonful  of  sweet  oil  may  be  put  in  the  bottles 
before  the  cork.  The  best  sort  of  onions  for  pickling 
are  the  small  white  buttons. 

PICKLED  CAULIFLOWERS. 

Two  cauliflowers,  cut  up;  one  pint  of  small  onions, 
three  medium-sized  red  peppers.  Dissolve  half  a pint 
of  salt  in  water  enough  to  cover  the  vegetables,  and  let 
these  stand  over  night.  In  the  morning  drain  them. 
Heat  two  quarts  of  vinegar  with  four  tablespoonfuls  of 
mustard,  until  it  boils;  add  the  vegetables,  and  boil 
for  about  fifteen  minutes,  or  until  a fork  can  be  thrust 
through  the  cauliflower. 

RED  CABBAGE. 

Procure  a firm,  good-sized  cabbage,  and  after  taking 
off  any  stra^ling  or  soiled  leaves,  cut  it  in  very  narrow 


THE  ENEBY  BA  Y COOKBOOK, 


145 


slices,  which  after  you  sprinkle  them  well  with  salt,  lay 
aside  for  forty-eight  hours.  Next  drain  off  the  sal 
liquor  which  has  formed,  and  pour  over  the  cabbage  % 
well  seasoned  pickle  of  boiling  hot  vinegar;  black  pepper 
and  ginger  are  best  for  seasoning.  Cover  the  pickle 
jars  till  the  cabbage  is  cold,  and  then  cork. 

TO  PICKLE  TOMATOES. 

Take  the  round,  smooth  green  tomatoes,  put  them  in 
salt  and  water,  cover  the  vessel  and  put  them  over  the 
fire  to  scald;  that  is,  to  let  the  water  become  boiling 
hot;  then  set  the  kettle  off;  take  them  horn  the  pot  into 
a basin  of  cold  water;  to  enough  cold  vinegar  to  cover 
them,  put  whole  pepper  and  mustard  seed;  when  the 
tomatoes  are  cold  take  them  from  the  water,  cut  each 
in  two  across,  shake  out  the  seeds  and  wipe  the  inside 
dry  with  a cloth,  then  put  them  into  glass  jars,  and 
cover  with  the  vinegar;  cork  them  close  or  with  a close- 
fitting  tin  cover. 

RIPE  TOMATO  PICKLES. 

To  seven  pounds  of  ripe  tomatoes  add  three  pounds 
sugar,  one  quart  vinegar;  boil  them  together  fifteen 
minutes,  skim  out  the  tomatoes  and  boil  the  syrup 
a few  minutes  longer.  Spice  to  suit  the  taste  with 
cloves  and  cinnamon. 

CHOPPED  PICKLE. 

One  peck  of  green  tomatoes,  two  quarts  of  onions 
and  two  of  peppers.  Chop  all  fine,  separately,  and 
mix,  adding  three  cupfuls  of  salt.  Let  them  stand 
over  night,  and  in  the  morning  drain  well.  Add  half 
a pound  of  mustard  seed,  two  tabiospoonfuls  of  ground 
allspice,  two  of  ground  cloves  and  one  cupful  of  grated 
horseradish.  Pour  over  it  three  quarts  of  buiiing 
Vinegar. 


146 


THE  EVEUYDaT  cook-book. 


CHOW  CHOW. 

One  peck  of  green  tqmatoes,  half  peck  strtng  beans; 
quarter  peck  small  white  onions,  quarter  pint  green  and 
red  peppers  mixed,  two  large  heads  cabbage,  four  table- 
spoons white  mustard  seed,  two  of  white  or  black 
cloves,  two  of  celery  seed,  two  of  allspice,  one  small 
box  yellow  mustard,  pound  brown  sugar,  one  ounce  of 
turmeric;  slice  the  tomatoes  and  let  stand  over  night  in 
brine  that  will  bear  an  egg;  then  squeeze  out  brine, 
chop.cabbage,  onions  and  beans;  chop  tomatoes  separ- 
ateljq  mix  with  the  spices,  put  all  m the  porcelain  ket- 
tle, cover  with  vinegar  and  boil  three  hours. 

PICCALILLL 

h ' 

One  peck  of  green  tomatoes;  (if  the  flavor  of  onions 
is  desired,  take  eight,  but  it  is  very  nice  without  any)  ; 
four  green  peppers;  slice  all,  and  put  in  layers,  sprinkle 
on  one  cup  of  salt,  and  let  them  remain  over  night;  hi 
the  morning  press  dry  through  a sieve,  put  it  in  a por- 
celain kettle  and  cover  with  vinegar;  add  one  cup  of 
sugar,  a tablespoon  of  each  kind  of  spice;  put  into  a 
muslin  bag;  stew  slowly  about  an  hour,  or  until  the 
tomatoes  are  as  soft  as  you  desire. 

PICKLED  WALNUTS^- VERY  GOOD. 

One  hundred  walnuts,  salt  and  water.  To  each  quart 
of  vinegar  allow  two  ounces  of  whole  black  pepper, 
one  ounce  of  allspice,  one  ouuiio  of  bruised  ginger. 
Procure  the  walnuts  while  young;  be  careful  they  are 
not  woody,  and  prick  them  will  with  a fork;  prepare  a 
strong  brine  of  salt  and  ivator  (four  pounds  of  salt  to 
each  gallon  of  wat('r),  into  which  put  the  walnuts,  let- 
ting them  remain  nine  days,  and  changing  the  brine 


THE  E VEE  YD  A Y CO  0KB  0 OK.  xnff 

every  third  day;  drain  them  off,  put  them  on  a dish, 
place  it  in  the  sun  until  they  become  perfectly  black, 
which  will  be  in  two  or  three  days;  have  ready  dry  jars, 
into  which  place  the  w'alnuts,  and  do  not  quite  till  the 
jars.  Boil  sufficient  vinegar  to  cover  tiiein,  for  ten 
minutes,  with  spices  in  the  above  proportion,  and  pour 
it  hot  over  the  walnuts,  which  must  be  quite  covered 
with  the  pickle;  tie  down  with  bladder,  and  keep  in  dry 
place.  They  will  be  fit  for  use  in  a month,  and  will 
keep  good  two  or  three  years. 

GREEN  TOMATO  PICKLE. 

One  peck  green  tomatoes  sliced,  six  large  onions 
sliced,  one  teacup  of  salt  over  both;  mix  thoroughly 
and  let  it  remain  over  night;  pour  off'  liquor  in  the 
morning  and  throw  it  away;  mix  two  quarts  of  water 
and  one  of  vinegar,  and  boil  twenty  minutes;  drain 
and  throw  liquor  aw'ay;  take  three  quarts  of  vinegar, 
two  pounds  of  sugar,  two  tablespoons  each  of  allspice, 
cloves,  cinnamon,  ginger,  and  mustard,  and  twelve 
green  peppers  chopped  fine;  boil  from  one  to  two  hours. 
Put  away  in  a stone  crock. 

CHILI  SAUCE. 

Eight  quarts  tomatoes,  three  cups  of  peppers,  two 
cups  onions,  three  cups  of  sugar,  one  cup  of  salt,  one 
and  a half  quarts  of  vinegar,  three  teaspoonfuls  of 
cloves;  same  quantity  of  cinnamon,  two  teaspoonfuls 
each  of  ginger  and  nutmeg;  chop  tomatoes,  peppers, 
and  onions  very  fine;  bottle  up  and  seal. 

MIXED  PICKLES. 

Three  hundred  small  cucumbers,  four  green  peppers 
lliced  fine,  two  large  pr  three  «mall  heasls  cauliflower* 


t48 


THE  EYERIDAT  COOKBOOK. 


three  heads  white  cabbage  shaved  fine,  nine  large  onions 
sliced,  one  large  root  horseradish,  one  quart  green  beans 
cut  one  inch  long,  one  quart  green  tomatoes  sliced;  put 
this  mixture  in  a pretty  strong  brine  twent)  -four  hours; 
drain  three  hours,  then  sprinkle  in  a quarter  pound 
black  and  a quarter  pound  white  mustard  seed;  also  one 
tablespoon  black  ground  pepper;  let  it  come  to  a good 
boil  in  just  vinegar  enough  to  cover  it,  adding  a little 
alum.  Drain  again,  and  when  cold,  mix  in  a half  pint 
ground  mustard;  cover  the  whole  with  good  cider 
vinegar;  add  turmeric  enough  to  color,  if  3^ou  like. 

PICKLED  MUSHROOMS. 

Sufficient  vinegar  to  cover  the  mushrooms,  to  each 
quart  of  mushrooms,  two  blades  pounded  mace,  one 
ounce  ground  pepper;  salt  to  taste.  Choose  some  nice 
young  button-mushrooms  for  pickling,  and  rub  off  the 
skin  with  a piece  of  flannel  and  salt,  and  cut  off  the 
stalks;  if  very  large,  take  out  the  red  inside,  and  reject 
the  black  ones,  as  they  are  too  old.  Put  them  in  a 
stewpan,  sprinkle  salt  over  them,  with  pounded  mace 
and  pepper  in  the  above  proportion;  shake  them  well 
over  a clear  fire  until  the  liqt.<  »r  flows,  and  keep  them 
there  until  it  is  all  dried  up  again;  then  add  as  much 
vinegar  as  will  cover  them;  just  let  it  simmer  for  one 
minute,  and  store  it  away  in  stone  jars  for  use.  When 
cold,  tie  down  with  bladder,  and  keep  in  a dry  place; 
they  will  remain  good  for  a length  of  time,  and  are 
generally  considered  delicious. 

FAVORITE  PICKLES. 

One  quart  raw  cabbage  chopped  fine;  one  quart  boiled 
beets  chopped  fine;  two  cups  sugar,  tablespoon  salt,  one 
li3a.spoon  black  pepper,  a quarter  teaspoon  red  pepper^ 


THE  EVERYDAY  COOK-BOOK. 


149 


one  teacup  grated  horseradish;  cover  with  cold  vinegar 
and  keep  from  the  air. 

TOMATO  MUSTARD. 

Slice  and  boil  for  an  hour,  with  six  small  red  peppers, 
half  bushel  ripe  tomatoes;  strain  through  a colander 
and  boil  for  an  hour  with  two  tablespoonfuls  of  black 
pepper,  two  ounces  of  ginger,  one  ounce  allspice,  half 
ounce  cloves,  one-eighth  ounce  mace,  quarter  pound 
salt.  When  cold  add  two  ounces  mustard,  two  ounces 
curry  powder,  and  one  pint  of  vinegar. 

INDIAN  CHETNEY. 

Eight  ounces  of  sharp,  sour  apples,  pared  and  cored, 
eight  ounces  of  tomatoes,  eight  ounces  of  salt,  eight 
ouaces  of  brown  sugar,  eight  ounces  of  stoned  raisins, 
four  ounces  of  Cayenne,  four  ounces  of  powdered  gin- 
ger, two  ounces  of  garlic,  two  ounces  of  shalots,  three 
quarts  of  vinegar,  one  quart  of  lemon-juice.  Chop  the 
apples  in  small,  square  pieces,  and  add  to  them  the 
other  ingredients.  Mix  the  whole  well  together,  and 
put  in  a well-covered  jar.  Keep  this  in  a warm  place, 
and  stir  every  day  for  a month,  taking  care  to  put  on 
the  lid  after  this  operation;  strain,  but  do  not  squeeze 
it  dry;  store  it  away  in  clean  jars  or  bottles  for  use, 
and  the  liquor  will  serve  as  an  excellent  sauce  for  meat 
or  fish. 

PICKLED  CHERRIES. 

Five  pounds  of  cherries,  stoned  or  not;  one  quart  of 
vinegar,  two  pounds  of  sugar,  one-half  ounce  of  cina- 
amon,  one-half  ounce  of  cloves,  one-half  ounce  of 
mace;  boil  the  sugar  and  vinegar  and  spices  together 
(grind  the  spices  and  tie  them  in  a muslin  bag),  and 
pour  hot  oxer  the  cherries 


160 


TEE  EVERYDAY  COOK-BOOK. 


PICKLED  PLUMS. 

To  seven  pounds  plums,  four  pounds  sugar,  two 
ounces  stick  cinamon,  two  ounces  cloves,  one  quart  of 
vinegar,  add  a little  mace;  put  in  the  jar  first  a layer  of 
plums,  then  a layer  of  spices  alternately;  scald  the  vin- 
egar and  sugar  together,  pour  it  over  the  plums;  reptsat 
three  times  for  plums  (only  once  for  cut  apples  and 
pears),  the  fourth  time  scald  all  together,  put  tht;m 
into  glass  jars  and  they  are  ready  for  use 

SPICED  PLUMS. 

Make  a syrup,  allowing  one  pound  of  sugar  to  one 
of  plums,  and  to  every  three  pounds  of  sugar  a scant 
pint  of  vinegar.  Allow  one  ounce  each  of  ground  cin- 
amon, cloves,  mace  and  allspice  to  a peck  of  plums. 
Prick  the  plums.  Add  the  spices  to  the  syrup,  and 
pour,  boiling,  over  the  plums.  Let  these  stand  thiee 
days;  then  skim  them  out,  and  boil  down  the  syrup 
until  it  is  quite  thick,  and  pour  hot  over  the  plums  in 
the  jar  in  which  they  are  to  be  kept. 

PEACHES,  PEARS  AND  SWEET  APPLES. 

For  six  pounds  of  fruit  use  three  of  sugar,  about  five 
dozen  cloves,  and  a pint  of  vinegar.  Into  each  apple, 
pear  or  peach,  stick  two  cloves.  Have  the  syrup  hot 
and  cook  until  tender. 

TOMATO  CATSUP. 

Take  one  gallon  of  skinned  tomatoes,  four  tablespoon- 
fuls of  salt,  four  ditto  of  whole  black  pepper,  half'  a 
spoonful  of  allspice,  eight  pods  of  red  pepper,  and 
three  spoonfuls  of  mustard,  boil  them  together  for  one 
hour,  then  strain  it  through  a sieve  or  coarse  cloth,  and 
when  cold,  bottle  for  use;  have  the  best  velvet  corlcft 


THE  EVEBY  DAY  COOK-BOOK. 


151 


WALNUT  CATSUP. 

Bruise  to  a mass  one  hundred  and  twenty  green  wal 
nuts,  gathered  when  a pin  could  pierce  one;  put  to  it 
three-quarters  of  a pound  of  salt  and  a quart  of  good 
vinegar;  stir  them  every  day  for  a fortnight,  then  strain 
and  squeeze  the  liquor  from  them  through  a cloth,  and 
set  it  aside,  put  to  the  husks  half  a pint  of  vinegar,  and 
let  it  stand  all  night,  then  strain  and  squeeze  them  as 
before;  put  the  liquor  from  them  to  that  which  was  put 
aside,  add  to  it  one  ounce  and  a quarter  of  whole  pep- 
per, forty  cloves;  half  an  ounce  of  nutmeg  sliced,  and 
half  an  ounce  of  ginger,  and  boil  it  for  half  an  hour 
closely  covered,  then  strain  it;  when  cold,  bottle  it  for 
use.  Secure  the  bottles  with  new  corks,  and  dip  them 
in  melted  rosin. 

MUSHROOM  CATSUP. 

To  each  peck  of  mushrooms,  one-half  pound  of  salt; 
to  each  quart  of  mushroom  liquor  one-quarter  ounce  of 
Cayenne,  one-half  ounce  of  allspice,  one-half  ounce  of 
ginger,  two  blades  of  pounded  mace.  Choose  full- 
grown  mushroom-flaps,  and  take  care  they  are  perfectly 
^resh-gathered  when  the  weather  is  tolerably  dry;  for, 
if  they  are  picked  during  very  heavy  rain  the  catsup 
from  w^hich  they  are  made  is  liable  to  get  musty,  and 
will  not  keep  long.  Put  a layer  of  them  in  a deep  pan, 
sprinkle  salt  over  them,  and  then  another  layer  of 
mushrooms,  and  so  on  alternately.  Let  them  remain 
for  a few  hours,  then  break  them  up  with  the  hand;  put 
them  in  a nice  cool  place  for  three  days,  occasionally 
stirring  and  mashing  them  well  to  extract  from  them  as 
much  juice  as  possible.  Now  measure  the  quantity  of 
liquor  without  straining,  and  to  each  quart  allow  the 
above  proportion  of  spices,  etc.  Put  all  into  a stone 
jar,  cover  it  up  very  closely,  put  it  in  a saucepan  cf 
boiling  water,  set  it  over  the  fire,  and  let  it  boil  for 


1»  TEE  EVEBTDA7  COOK-BOOK. 

three  hours.  Have  ready  a nice  clean  stewpan;  turn 
into  it  the  contents  of  the  jar,  and  let  the  whole  simmer 
very  gently  for  half  an  hour;  pour  into  a jug,  where  it 
should  stand  in  a cool  place  till  next  day;  then  pour  it 
off  into  another  jug,  and  strain  it  into  very  dry,  clean 
bottles,  and  do  not  squeese  the  mushrooms.  To  each 
pint  of  catsup  add  a few  drops  of  brandy.  Be  careful 
not  to  shake  the  contents,  but  leave  all  the  sediment  be- 
hind in  the  jug;  cork  well,  and  either  seal  or  rosin  the 
cork,  so  as  perfectly  to  exclude  the  air.  Wheu  a very 
clear,  bright  catsup  is  wanted,  the  liquor  must  be 
strained  thx"ough  a very  fine  hair-sieve,  or  flannel  bag, 
after  it  has  been  very  gently  poured  off;  if  the  opera- 
tion is  not  successful,  it  must  be  repeated  until  you 
have  quite  a clear  liquor.  It  should  be  examined  oc- 
casionally, and  if  it  is  spoiling  should  be  reboiled  with 
a few  peppercorns. 

BRINE  THAT  PRESERVES  BUTTER  A 
YEAR. 

To  three  gallons  of  brine  strong  enough  to  bear  an 
egg,  add  one-quarter  pound  of  good  loaf  sugar,  and  one 
tablespoonful  of  saltpetre;  boil  the  brine,  and  when  it  is 
cold  strain  carefully.  Pack  butter  closely  in  small  jars, 
and  allow  the  brine  to  cover  the  butter  to  the  depth  of 
at  least  four  inches.  This  completely  excludes  the  air. 
If  practicable  make  your  butter  into  small  rolls,  wrap 
each  carefully  into  a clean  muslin  cloth,  tying  up  with 
a string;  place  a weight  over  the  butter  to  keep  it  all 
submerged  in  the  brine.  This  mode  is  most  recom- 
mended by  those  who  have  tried  both. 

BUTTER  IN  HASTE, 

FROM  WINTER  CREAM,  OR  FROM  THE  MILK  OF  ONE  COW. 

Take  milk  fresh  from  the  cow,  strain  it  into  clean 
pans,  set  it  over  a gentle  fire  until  it  is  scalded  hot;  do 


JBj®  bvbrydaj  cookbook. 


153 


not  let  it  boil;  then  set  it  aside;  when  it  is  cold  skim  off 
the  cream;  the  milk  will  still  be  fit  for  any  ordinary  use; 
when  you  have  enough  cream,  put  it  into  a clean  earthen 
basin;  beat  it  with  a wooden  spoon  until  the  butter  is 
made,  which  will  not  be  long;  then  take  it  from  the 
milk  and  work  with  a little  cold  water,  until  it  is  free 
from  milk,  and  then  drain  off  the  water,  put  a small" 
tablespoonful  of  fine  salt  to  each  pound  of  butter,  and 
work  it  in.  A small  teaspoonful  of  fine  white  sugar, 
worked  in  with  the  salt,  will  be  found  an  improvement 
— sugar  is  a great  preservative.  Make  the  butter  in  a 
roll;  cover  with  a bit  of  muslin,  and  keep  it  in  a cool 
place. 

This  receipt  was  obtained  from  one  who  practiced  it 
for  several  winters. 


104 


TEE  EVEBIDAY  COOK-BOOK. 


PUDDINGS. 


GENERAL  REMARKS. 

All  boiled  pudding  should  be  put  on  mhoiling  water., 
which  must  not  be  allowed  to  stop  simmering,  and  the 
pudding  must  always  be  covered  with  the  water;  if 
requisite  the  saucepan  should  be  kept  filled  up.  To 
prevent  a pudding  boiled  in  a cloth  from  sticking  to  the 
bottom  of  the  saucepan,  place  a small  plate  or  saucer 
underneath  it;  if  a mold  is  used  this  pi’ecaution  is  not 
necessary;  but  care  must  be  taken  to  keep  the  pudding 
well  covered  with  water.  For  dishing  a boiled  pudding 
as  i600n  as  it  comes  out  of  the  pot,  dip  it  into  a basin 
of  cold  water,  and  the  cloth  will  then  not  adhere  to  it. 
Great  expedition  is  necessary  in  sending  puddings  to 
table,  as,  by  standing,  they  quickly  become  heavy,  bat- 
ter puddings  particularly.  F or  baked  or  boiled  puddings, 
the  molds,  cups,  or  basins  should  be  always  buttered 
before  the  mixture  is  put  into  them,  and  they  should  be 
put  into  the  saucepan  directly  they  are  filled. 

CHRISTMAS  PLUM  PUDDING. 

One  pound  butter,  one  pound  suet,  freed  from  string 
and  chopped  fine,  one  pound  sugar,  two  and  a half 
pounds  flour,  two  pounds  raisins,  seeded,  chopped  and 
dredged  with  flour,  two  pounds  currants,  picked  over 
carefully  after  they  are  washed,  one-quarter  pound  cit- 
ron, shred  fine,  twelve  eggs,  whites  and  yolks  beaten 
separately,  oue  pint  milk,  one  cup  brandy,  one-half 
ounbe  cloves,  one-half  ounce  mace,  two  grated  nutmegs, 


THE  EVERYDAY  COOK-BOOK. 


155 


Cream  the  butter  and  sugar,  beat  in  the  yolks  when 
you  have  whipped  them  smooth  and  light;  next  put  in 
the  milk,  then  the  flour,  alternately  with  the  beaten 
whites,  then  the  brandy  and  spice,  lastly  the  fruit,  well 
dredged  with  flour.  Mix  all  thoroughly,  wring  out 
your  pudding-cloth  in  hot  water,  flour  well  inside,  pour 
in  the  mixture  and  boil  five  hours. 

BOILED  BATTER  PUDDING. 

Three  eggs,  one  ounce  butter,  one  pint  milk,  three 
tablespoonfuls  flour,  a little  salt.  Put  the  flour  into  a 
basin,  and  add  sufficient  milk  to  moisten  it ; carefully 
rub  down  all  the  Inmps  with  a spoon,  then  pour  in  the 
remainder  of  the  milk,  and  stir  in  the  butter,  which 
should  be  previously  melted  ; keep  beating  the  mixture, 
add  the  eggs  and  a pinch  of  salt,  and  when  the  batter 
is  quite  smooth,  put  into  a well-buttered  basin,  tie  it 
down  very  tightly,  and  put  it  into  boiling  water ; move 
the  basin  about  for  a few  minutes  after  it  is  put  into 
the  water,  to  prevent  the  flour  settling  in  any  part,  aad 
boil  for  one  and  one-quarter  hours.  This  pudding  may 
also  be  boiled  in  a floured  cloth  that  has  been  wetted  in 
hot  water ; it  will  then  take  a few  minutes  less  than 
when  boiled  in  a basin.  Send  these  puddings  very 
quickly  to  table,  and  serve  with  sweet  sauce,  wine 
sauce,  stewed  fruit,  or  jam  of  any  kind ; when  the  latter 
is  used,  a little  of  it  may  be  placed  round  the  dish  in 
small  quantities,  as  a garnish.  ' 

BATTER  PUDDING. 

One  quart  milk,  four  eggs,  six  ounces  flour,  a little 
soda  and  salt.  Mix  the  flour  very  carefully  with  a 
little  milk  so  it  will  not  be  lumpy.  Bake  twenty  min' 
Qtes.  Serve  immediately. 


ISS  THE  EVEBTDAY  GOOE-BOOE. 

MADERIA  PUDDING. 

One-half  pound  cheap  suet,  three-quarters  of  a pound 
bread-crumbs,  six  ounces  moist  sugar,  one-quarter 
pound  flour,  two  eggs,  two  wine-glasses  sherry;  mix 
the  suet,  bread-crumbs,  sugar  and  flour  well  together. 
When  these  ingredients  are  well  mixed,  add  the  eggs 
and  two  glasses  of  sherry,  to  make  a thick  batter;  boil 
three  hours  and  a half.  Serve  with  wine  sauce. 

APPLE  SAGO  PUDDING. 

One  cup  sago  in  a quart  of  tepid  water,  with  a pinch 
of  salt,  soaked  for  an  hour;  six  or  eight  apples,  pared 
and  cored,  or  quartered,  and  steamed  tender,  and  p\it 
in  the  pudding- dish;  boil  and  stir  the  sago  until  clear, 
adding  water  to  make  it  thin,  and  pour  it  over  the 
apples;  this  is  good  hot  with  butter  and  sugar,  or  cold 
with  cream  and  sugar. 

QUEEN  OP  PUDDINGS. 

One  large  cup  of  fine  bread-crumbs  soaked  in  milk, 
three-quarters  cup  sugar,  one  lemon,  juice  and  grated 
rind,  six  eggs,  one-half  pound  stale  sponge  cake,  one- 
half  pound  macaroons — almond,  one-half  cup  jelly  or 
jam,  and  one  small  tumbler  sherry  wine,  one-half  cup 
milk  poured  upon  the  bread-crumbs,  one  tablespoonful 
melted  butter.  Rub  the  butter  and  sugar  together;  put 
the  beaten  yolks  in  next,  then  the  soaked  bread-crumbs, 
the  lemon,  juice  and  rind,  and  beat  to  a smooth,  light 
paste  bnfore  adding  the  whites.  Butter  your  mold-y^ 
well,  and  put  in  the  bottom  a light  layer  of  dry  bread- 
crumbs, upon  this  one  of  macaroons,  laid  evenly  and 
closely  together.  Wet  this  with  wine,  and  cover  with 
a layer  of  the  mixture,  then  with  shces  of  sponge  caKo, 
spread  thickly  with  jelly  or  jam;  next  maicarooQs,  wet 


TBE  EVERYDAY  COOK-BOOK. 


15? 


wHh  wine,  more  custard,  sponge  cake  and  jam,  and  so 
on  until  the  mold  is  full,  putting  a layer  of  the  mixture 
at  the  top.  Cover  closely,  and  steam  in  the  oven 
three-quarters  of  an  hour;  then  remove  the  cover  to 
brown  the  top.  Turn  out  carefully  into  a dish,  and 
pour  over  it  a sauce  made  of  currant  jelly  warmed,  and 
beaten  up  with  two  tablespoonfuls  melted  butter  and  a 
glass  of  pale  sherry. 

ORANGE  PUDDING. 

, Peel  and  cut  five  sweet  oranges  into  thin  slices,  taking 
out  the  seeds,  pour  over  them  a coffee-cup  of  white 
sugar;  let  a pint  of  milk  get  boiling  hot,  by  setting  it  in 
a pot  of  boiling  water;  add  the  yolks  of  three  eggs  well 
beaten,  one  tablespoonful  of  corn  starch,  made  smooth 
with  a little  cold  milk;  stir  all  the  time;  as  soon  as 
thickened  pour  over  the  fruit.  Beat  the  whites  to  a stiff 
froth,  adding  a tablespoonful  of  sugar,  and  spread  over 
the  top  for  frosting;  set  it  in  the  oven  for  a few  minutes 
to  harden;  eat  cold  or  hot  (better  cold),  for  dinner  and 
supper.  Berries  or  peaches  can  be  substituted  for 
oranges. 

CORN  STARCH  PUDDING. 

One  pint  sweet  milk,  whites  of  three  eggs,  two  table- 
spoons corn  starch,  three  of  sugar,  a little  salt.  Put  the 
milk  in  a pan  or  small  bucket,  set  in  a kettle  of  hot 
water  on  the  stove,  and  when  it  reaches  the  boiling 
point  add  the  sugar,  then  the  starch  dissolved  in  a little 
cold  milk,  and  lastly  the  whites  of  eggs  whipped  to  a 
stiff  froth;  beat  it,  and  let  cook  for  a few  minutes,  then 
pour  into  teacups,  filling  about  half  full,  and  set  in  a 
cool  place.  For  sauce,  make  a boiled  custard  as  follows: 
Bring  to  boiling  point  one  pint  of  milk,  add  three  table- 
spoons sugar,  then  the  beaten  yolks  thinned  by  adding 
one  tablespoon  milk,  stirring  all  the  time  till  it  thickens; 
flavor  with,  two  teaspoons  lemon  or  two  of  vanUla,  and 


158 


THE  EVERYDAY  COOK-BOOK. 


set  to  cool.  In  serving,  put  one  of  the  molds  in  a 
saucedish  for  each  person,  and  pour  over  it  some  ofthe 
boiled  custard.  Or  the  pudding  may  be  made  in  one 
large  mold. 

To  make  a chocolate  pudding,  flavor  the  above  pud- 
ding with  vanilla,  remove  two-thirds  of  it  and  add  half 
a cake  of  chocolate  softened,  mashed,  and  dissolved  in  a 
little  milk.  Put  a layer  of  half  the  white  pudding  into 
the  mold,  then  the  chocolate,  then  the  rest  of  the  white; 
or  two  layers  of  chocolate  may  be  used  with  the  whites 
between;  or  the  centre  may  be  cocoa  (made  by  adding  a 
cocoanut  grated  fine),  and  the  outside  chocolate;  or 
pineapple  chopped  fine  (if  first  cooked  in  a little  water, 
the  latter  makes  a nice  dressing),  or  strawberries  may 
be  used. 

FRENCH  PUDDING. 

One  quart  of  milk,  three  tablespoons  of  com  starch, 
yolks  of  four  eggs,  half  cup  sugar  and  a little  salt;  put 
part  of  the  milK,  salt  and  sugar  on  the  stove  and  let  it 
boil,  dissolve  the  corn  starch  in  the  rest  of  the  milk; 
stir  into  the  milk,  and  while  boiling  add  the  yolks. 
Flavor  with  vanilla. 

Frosting. — Whites  of  four  eggs  beaten  to  a stiff 
froth,  half  a cup  of  sugar;  flavor  with  lemon;  spread  it 
on  the  pudding,  and  put  it  into  the  oven  to  brown, 
saving  a little  of  the  frosting  to  moisten  the  top;  then 
put  on  grated  cocoanut  to  give  it  the  appearance  of 
snow-flake. 


BELLLE’S  PUDDING. 

Soak  for  an  hour  in  a pint  of  cold  water  one  box  of 
Cox’s  sparkling  gelatine,  and  add  one  pint  of  boiling 
water,  one  pint  of  wine,  the  juice  of  four  lemons,  and  three 
large  cupfuls  of  sugar.  Beat  the  whites  of  four  eggs  to  a 


THE  EVEBTDAT  OC  K-BOOK. 

stifi  froth,  and  stir  into  the  jelly  when  it  begins  to 
thhiken.  Pour  into  a large  mold,  and  set  in  ice-water 
in  H cool  place.  When  ready  to  serve,  turn  out  as  you 
woiiild  jelly,  only  have  the  pudding  in  a deep  dish. 
Po'fjr  one  quart  of  soft  custard  around  it  and  serve. 

CREAM  TAPIOCA  PUDDING. 

Soak  three  tablespoons  of  tapioca  in  water  over  night; 
put  the  tapioca  into  a quart  of  boiling  milk,  and  boil 
half  an  hour;  beat  the  yolks  of  four  eggs  with  a cup 
of  sugar;  add  three  tablespoons  of  prepared  cocoanut; 
stir  in  and  boil  ten  minutes  longer;  pour  into  a pudding- 
dish;  beat  the  whites  of  four  eggs  to  a stiff  froth,  stir 
in  three  tablespoons  of  sugar;  put  this  over  the  top  and 
sprinkle  cocoanut  over  the  top  and  brown  for  five 
minutes. 


A BACHELOR’S  PUDDING. 

Four  ounces  of  grated  bread,  four  ounces  of  currants, 
four  ounces  of  apples,  two  ounces  of  sugar,  three  eggs, 
a few  drops  of  essence  of  lemon,  a little  grated  nutmeg. 
Pare,  core,  and  mince  the  apples  very  finely,  sufficient 
when  minced,  to  make  four  ounces;  add  to  these  the  cur- 
rants, which  should  be  well  washed,  the  grated  bread, 
and  sugar;  whisk  the  eggs,  beat  these  up  with  the  re- 
maining ingredients,  and,  when  all  is  thoroughly  mixed, 
put  the  pudding  into  a buttered  basin,  tie  it  down  with 
a cloth,  and  boil  for  three  hours. 

MACARONI  PUDDING. 

One-half  pound  macaroni  broken  into  inch  lengths, 
two  cups  boiling  water,  one  teaspoonful  butter,  one 
large  cup  milk,  two  tablespoonfuls  sugar,  grated  peel  of 


«80 


fSE  EVERT  DAT  COOR-ROOS. 


half  a lemon,  a little  cinnamon  and  salt.  Boil  the  maca- 
roni in  the  water  until  it  is  tender,  and  has  soaked  up 
the  liquid.  It  must  be  cooked  in  a farina-kettle.  Add 
the  butter  and  salt.  Cover  for  five  minutes  without 
cooking.  Put  in  the  rest  of  the  ingredients.  Simmer, 
after  the  boil  begins,  ten  minutes  longer,  before  serv- 
ing in  a deep  dish.  Be  careful,  in  stirring,  not  to  break 
the  macaroni.  Eat  with  butter  and  powdered  sugar,  or 
cream  and  sugar. 

BAKED  INDIAN  PUDDING. 

Two  quarts  scalded  milk  with  salt,  one  and  one-havf 
cups  Indian  meal  (yellow);  one  tablespoon  ginger,  let- 
ting this  stand  twenty  minutes;  one  cup  molasses,  two 
eggs  (saleratus  if  no  eggs),  a piece  of  butter  the  size  of 
a common  walnut.  Bake  two  hours.  Splendid. 

BOILED  INDIAN  PUDDING. 

Warm  a pint  of  molasses  and  pint  of  milk,  stir  well 
together,  beat  four  eggs,  and  stir  gradually  into  mo- 
lasses and  milk;  add  a pound  beef  suet  chopped  fine, 
and  Indian  meal  sufficient  to  make  a thick  batter;  add 
a teaspoon  pulverized  cinnamon,  nutmeg  and  a little 
grated  lemon-peel,  and  stir  all  together  thoroughly;  dip 
cloth  into  boiling  water,  shake,  flour  a little,  turn  in 
the  mixture,  tie  up,  leaving  room  for  the  pudding  to 
swell,  and  boil  three  hours;  serve  hot  with  sauce  made 
of  drawn  butter,  wine  and  nutmeg. 

MARMALADE  PUDDINGS. 

Half  pound  suet,  half  pound  grated  bread-crumbs, 
half  pound  sugar,  three  ounces  orange  marmalade ; mix 
these  ingredients  together  with  four  eggs;  boil  four 
hours.  Lay  a few  raisins  open  in  the  bottom  of  the 


TEE  EVEBYDAY  COOK-BOOK. 


161 


mold.  Sauce:  Two  ounces  butter,  and  two  ounces 
white  sugar;  beat  to  a cream  and  flavor  with  brandy  or 
lemon. 

BOILED  APPLE  DUMPLINGS. 

Add  to  two  cups  sour  milk  one  teaspoon  soda,  and 
one  salt,  half  cup  butter,  lard,  flour  enough  to  make 
dough  a little  stiff er  than  the  biscuit;  or  make  a good 
baking  powder  crust;  peel  and  core  apples,  roll  out 
crust,  place  apples  on  dough,  fill  cavity  of  each  with 
sugar,  encase  each  apple  in  coating  of  the  crust,  press 
edges  tight  together  (it  is  nice  to  tie  a cloth  around  each 
one),  put  into  kettle  of  boiling  water  slightly  salted, 
boil  half  an  hour,  taking  care  that  the  water  covers  the 
dumplings.  They  are  also  very  nice  steamed.  To  bake 
make  in  same  way,  using  a soft  dough,  place  in  a shal- 
low pan,  bake  in  a hot  oven,  and  serve  with  cream  and 
sugai',  or  place  in  a pan  which  is  four  or  five  inches 
deep  (do  not  have  the  dumplings  touch  each  other);  then 
pour  in  hot  water,  just  leaving  top  of  dumplings  un- 
covered. To  a pan  of  four  or  five  dumplings,  add  one 
teacup  sugar  and  half  a teacup  of  butfer;  bake  from 
half  to  three-quarters  of  an  hour.  If  water  cooks  away 
too  much,  add  more.  Serve  dumplings  on  platter  and 
the  liquid  in  sauce-boat  for  dressing.  Fresh  or  canned 
peaches  may  be  made  in  the  same  way. 

NELLY’S  PUDDING. 

Half  pound  flour,  half  pound  treacle,  half  pound  suet, 
the  rind  and  juice  of  one  lemon,  a few  strips  of  candied 
lemon-peel,  three  tablespoonfuls  cream,  two  eggs.  Chop 
the^  suet  finely;  mix  with  it  the  flour,  treacle,  lemon- 
peel  minced,  and  candied  lemon-peel;  add  the  cream, 
lemon-juice,  and  two  well-beaten  eggs;  beat  the  pudding 
well,  put  it  into  a buttered  basin,  tie  it  down  with  a 
cloth,  and  boil  from  three  and  a half  to  four  hours. 


183 


TEE  EVEBTDAY  COOK-BOOK. 


RICH  BAKED  APPLE  PUDDmG. 

Half  pound  the  pulp  of  apples,  half  pound  loaf 
sugar,  six  ounces  butter,  the  rind  one  lemon,  six  eggs, 
puff  paste.  Peel,  core  and  cut  the  apples,  as  for  sauce; 
put  them  into  a stewpan,  with  only  just  sufficient  water 
to  prevent  them  from  burning,  and  let  them  stew  until 
reduced  to  a pulp.  Weigh  the  pulp,  and  to  every  half 
pound  add  sifted  sugar,  grated  lemon-rind,  and  six  well- 
beaten  eggs.  Beat  these  ingredients  well  together; 
then  melt  the  butter,  stir  it  to  the  other  things,  put  a 
border  of  puff  paste  round  the  dish,  and  bake  for  rather 
more  than  half  an  hour.  The  butter  should  not  be 
added  until  the  pudding  is  ready  for  the  oven. 

SNOW  BALLS. 

Pick  all  imperfections  from  half  pint  of  rice,  put  it 
in  water,  and  rub  it  between  the  hands;  then  pour  that 
water  off,  put  more  on,  stir  it  about  in  it,  let  the  rice 
settle,  then  drain  the  water  off;  put  the  rice  in  a two- 
quart  stewpan,  with  a teaspoonful  of  salt,  and  a quart 
of  water;  cover  the  stew-pan,  and  set  it  where  it  will 
boil  gently  for  an  hour,  or  until  the  water  is  all  ab- 
sorbed; dip  some  teacups  into  cold  water,  fill  them  with 
the  boiled  rice,  press  it  to  their  shap''*  then  turn  them  out 
on  a dish,  and  serve  with  butter  and  sugar,  or  wine 
sauce. 


RICE  PUDDING. 

' One  teacup  rice,  one  teacup  sugar,  one  teacup  raisins, 
small  piece  butter,  a little  salt,  two  quarts  milk.  Bake 
from  an  hour  and  a half  to  two  hours.  Serve  with 


sauce. 


TEE  EVERYDAY  COOK-BOOK 


163 


APPLE  CHARLOTTE. 

Cut  slices  of  wheat  bread  or  rolls,  and  having  rubbed 
the  bottom  and  sides  of  a basin  with  a bit  of  butter,  line 
it  with  the  sliced  bread  or  rolls;  peel  tart  apples,  cut 
them  small,  and  nearly  fill  the  pan,  strewing  bits  of  but- 
ter and  sugar  between  the  apples;  grate  a small  nutmeg 
over;  soak  as  many  slices  of  bread  or  rolls  as^will  cover 
it;  over  which  put  a plate,  and  a weight,  to  keep  the 
bread  close  upon  the  apples;  bake  two  hours  in  a quick 
oven,  then  turn  it  out.  Quarter  of  a pound  of  butter, 
and  half  a pound  of  sugar,  to  half  a peck  of  tart  apples. 

GROUND  RICE  PUDDING. 

This  is  an  economical  pudding,  made  with  two  pints 
of  sweet  milk,  a teacupful  of  ground  rice,  two  table- 
spoonfuls of  sugai,  three  eggs,  and  a little  ground  nut- 
meg. Bring  half  the  quantity  of  milk  to  the  boiling 
point,  with  the  nutmeg  or  any  other  kind  of  flavoring 
matter,  and  sugar.  In  the  other  half  of  the  milk  beat 
up  the  rice  flour  into  a thin  batter,  adding  to  it  through 
a strainer  the  hot  seasoned  milk,  stirring  all  the  time. 
A sprinkling  of  salt  is  an  improvement.  Bake  this  mix- 
ture in  a moderate  oven  for  a little  over  an  hour,  say 
seventy  minutes,  or  boil  m a buttered  basin  or  shape. 
Serve  with  apricot  preserves,  or  marmalade,  or  indeed 
any  kind  of  jam. 

FIG  PUDDING. 

One-half  pound  figs,  one-quarter  pound  grated  bread, 
two  and  a half  ounces  powdered  sugar,  three  ounces 
butter,  two  eggs,  one  teacup  of  milk.  Chop  the  figs 
small  and  mix  first  with  the  water,  then  all  the  other  im 


164 


THE  EVEBTDAY  GOOKBOOK. 


gredients  by  degrees;  butter  a mold,  sprinkle  with 
bread-crumbs,  cover  it  tight  and  boil  for  three  hours. 

BREAD  AND  BUTTER  PUDDING. 

Place  as  many  slices  of  thin  cut  bread  and  butter  as 
you  like  in  a pie  dish,  say  ten  or  twelve  slices,  sprinkle 
a few  well-washed  currants  between  the  layers,  beat  up 
half  a dozen  of  eggs  in  two  pints  of  new  milk,  adding 
sugar  to  taste  and  a little  flavoring,  such  as  nutmeg  or 
cinnamon,  and  pour  over  the  bread  and  butter.  Bake 
for  an  hour  and  ten  minutes  and  send  it  to  table  in  the 
dish  it  has  been  baked  in. 

CABINET  PUDDING. 

One  quart  of  milk,  four  eggs,  four  tablespoonfuls  of 
‘Ugar,  half  a teaspoonful  of  salt,  one  tablespoonfwl  of 
Gutter,  three  pints  of  stale  sponge  cake,  one  cupful  o.. 
raisins,  chopped  citron  and  currants.  Have  a little 
more  of  the  currants  than  of  the  two  other  fruits.  Beat 
the  eggs,  sugar,  and  salt  together,  and  add  the  milk. 
Butter  a three-pint  pudding  mold  (the  melon  shape  is 
nice),  sprinkle  the  sides  and  bottom  with  the  fruit,  and 
put  in  more  cake.  Continue  this  until  all  the  materials 
are  used.  Gradually  pour  in  the  custard.  Let  the 
pudding  stand  two  hours,  and  steam  an  hour  and  a quar- 
ter. Serve  with  wine  or  creamy  sauce. 

SNOW  PUDDING. 

One  half  package  Cox’s  gelatine;  pour  over  it  a cup 
of  cold  water  and  add  one  and  one-half  cups  of  sugar; 
when  soft,  add  one  cup  boiling  water,  juice  of  one 
lemon  and  the  whites  of  four  well-beaten  eggs;  beat  all 
^gftt^*er  until  very  light;  put  in  a glass  dish  and  pour 


THE  EVERYDAY  COOK-BOOK. 


165 


over  it  custard  made  as  follows:  One  pint  milk,  yolks 
of  four  eggs,  and  grated  rind  of  one  lemon;  boil. 
Splendid. 


CARROT  PUDDING. 

One  pound  grated  carrots,  three-fourths  pound 
chopped  suet,  half  pound  each  raisins  and  currants,  four 
tablespoonfuls  .sugar,  eight  tablespoonfuls  flour,  and 
spices  to  suit  the  taste.  Boil  four  hours,  place  in  the 
oven  for  twenty  minutes,  and  serve  with  wine  sauce. 

LEMON  PUDDING. 

Half  pound  of  sugar,  half  pound  of  butter,  five 
eggs,  half  gill  of  brandy,  rind  and  juice  of  one  large 
lemon;  beat  well  the  butter  and  sugar,  whisk  fhe  eggs, 
add  them  to  the  lemon,  grate  the  p^el,  line  a dish  with 
pufl* paste,  and  bake  in  a moderate  oven. 

ROLY-POLY. 

Take  one  quart  of  flour;  make  good  biscuit  crust; 
roll  out  one-half  inch  thick  and  spread  with  any  kind  of 
fruit,  fresh  or  preserved;  fold  so  that  the  fruit  will  not 
run  out;  dip  cloth  into  boiling  water,  and  flour  it  and 
lay  around  the  pudding  closely,  leaving  room  to  swell; 
steam  one  and  one-half  hours;  serve  with  boiled  sauce; 
or  lay  in  steamer  without  a cloth,  and  steam  for  one 
hour. 

COTTAGE  PUDDING. 

One-  half  cup  of  sugar,  one  cup  of  milk,  one  pint 
of  flour,  three  table-spoonfuls  of  melted  butter,  one  tea- 
spoonful soda,  two  of  cream  of  tartar,  two  eggs,  a 
little  salt;  bake  one-quarter  of  an  hour  in  small  pans. 


166 


THE  EVERYDAY  COOKBOOK. 


COCOANUT  PUDDING. 

Beat  two  eggs  with  one  cupful  of  new  milk;  add  one- 
quarter  of  a pound  of  grated  cocoanut;  ndx  with  it 
three  tablespoonfuls  each  of  grated  bread  and 
powdered  sugar,  two  ounces  of  melted  butter,  five 
ounces  of  raisins,  and  one  teaspoonful  of  grated  lemon- 
peel;  beat  the  whole  well  together:  pour  the  mixture 
into  a buttered  dish,  and  bake  in  a slow  oven;  then 
turn  it  out,  dust  sugar  over  it,  and  serve.  This  pud- 
ding may  be  either  boiled  or  baked. 

CREAM  PUDDING. 

Stir  together  one  pint  of  cream,  three  ounces  sugar, 
the  yolks  of  three  eggs,  and  a little  grated  nutmeg; 
add  the  well-beaten  whites,  stirring  lightly,  and  pour 
into  a buttered  pie-plate  on  which  has  been  sprinkled 
the  crumbs  of  stale  bread  to  about  the  thickness  of  an 
ordinary  crust;  sprinkle  over  the  top  a layer  of  bread 
crumbs  and  bake. 

TAPIOCA  PUDDING. 

Cover  three  tablesponfuls  tapioca  with  water;  stand 
over  night;  add  one  quart  milk,  a small  piece  of  butter, 
a little  salt  and  boil;  beat  the  yolks  of  three  eggs  with 
a cup  of  sugar,  and  boil  the  whole  to  a very  thick  cus- 
tard, flavor  with  vanilla;  when  cold  cavor  with  whites 
of  eggs  beaten. 

COMMON  CUSTARD. 

Beat  either  four  or  five  fresh  eggs  light;  then  stir 
them  into  a quart  of  milk;  sweeten  to  taste,  flavor  with 
a teaspoonful  of  peach- water,  or  extract  of  lemon,  or 
vanilla,  and  half  a teaspoonful  of  salt,  ruf)  butler  over 
the  bottom  and  sides  of  a baking  dish  or  iin  basin,  pour 
U)  the  custard,  grate  a little  nutmeg  over,  and  hake  ut  a 


THE  EVERYDAY  COOK-BOOK. 


167 


quick  oven.  Three-quarters  of  an  hour  is  generally 
enough.  Try  whether  it  is  done  by  putting  a teaspoon 
handle  into  the  middle  of  it,  if  it  comes  out  clean,  it  is 
enough. 

Or  butter  small  cups;  set  them  into  a shallow  pan  of 
hot  water,  reaching  nearly  to  the  top  of  the  cups; 
nearly  fill  them  with  the  custard  mixture;  keep  the 
water  boiling  until  they  are  doner  The  pan  may  be 
set  in  an  oven,  or  hot  shovel. 


TEE  EVERYDAY  COOKBOOK. 


ie» 


PUDDING  SAUCES. 

f 

i 

EICH  WINE  SAUCE. 

One  cupful  of  butter,  two  of  powdered  sugar,  half  a 
cupful  of  wine.  Beat  the  butter  to  a cream.  Add  the 
sugar  gradually,  and  when  very  light  add  the  wine, 
which  has  been  made  hot,  a little  at  a time.  Place  the 
bowl  in  a basin  of  hot  water  and  stir  for  two  minutes. 
The  sauce  should  be  smooth  and  foamy. 

WHIPPED  CREAM  SAUCE. 

Whip  a pint  of  thick  sweet  cream,  add  the  beaten 
whites  of  two  eggs,  sweeten  to  taste;  place  pudding  in 
centre  of  dish,  and  surround  with  the  sauce;  or  pile  up 
in  centre  and  surround  with  molded  blanc-mange,  or 
fruit  pudding. 


LEMON  SAUCE. 

One  cup  of  sugar,  half  a cup  of  butter,  one  egg,  one 
lemon,  juice  and  grated  rind,  three  tablespoonfuls  of 
boiling  water;  put  in  a tin  pail  and  thicken  over  steam, 

JELLY  SAUCE. 

Melt  one  ounce  of  sugar  and  two  tablespoons  grapei 
jelly  over  the  fire  in  a half  pint  of  boiling  water,  and 
stir  into  it  half  a teaspoon  corn  starch  dissolved  in  a 
half  cup  cold  water;  let  it  come  to  a boil,  and  it  will  be 
ready  for  use.  Any  other  fyuit  jelly  may  he  usetl  ia» 
of  grape. 


TEE  EVEBTEAT  COOK-BOOK. 


169 


CABINET  PUDDING  SAUCE- 

Take  the  yolks  of  five  eggs  and  whip  them  lightly, 
express  the  juice  of  a lemon  and  grate  down  a little  of 
the  peel.  The  other  ingredients  are  a tablespoon  of 
butter,  a cup  of  sugar,  a glass  of  good  wine,  and  a little 
spice.  Mix  the  sugar  and  butter,  adding  the  yolks, 
spice,  and  lemon-juice.  Beat  fifteen  minutes,  then  add 
the  wine,  and  stir  hai’d.  Immerse  in  a saucepan  of 
boiling  water,  beating  while  it  heats. 

FOAMING  SAUCE 

Beat  whites  of  three  eggs  to  a stiff  froth;  melt  teairup 
of  sugar  in  a little  water,  let  it  boil,  stir  in  one  glass  of 
wine,  and  then  the  whites  of  the  three  eggs;  servi?  at 
'^nce. 

SPANISH  SAUCE. 

One-half  cup  of  boiling  water,  one  tablespoon  com 
starch,  two  tablespoonfuls  vinegar,  one  tablespoonfui 
butter,  one  cup  sugar,  one-half  nutmeg. 

HARD  SAUCE. 

Beat  to  a cream  a quarter  of  a pound  of  butter,  add 
gradually  a quarter  of  a pound  of  sugar,  heat  it  until 
very  white;  add  a little  lemon  juice,  or  grate  nutmeg 
on  top. 

PUDDING  SAUCE. 

One  cup  of  sugar,  one-half  cup  of  butter,  yolks  of 
three  eggs;  one  teaspoon  of  corn  starch  or  arrow-root: 
stir  the  whole  until  very  light;  add  suflScient  boiling 
water  to  make  the  consistency  of  thick  cream;  wine  or 
brandy  to  suit  the  taste. 


170 


THE  EVERYDAY  COOKBOOK. 


SAUCE  FOR  PLUM  PUDDING. 

The  yolks  of  three  eggs,  one  tablespoonful  of  pow- 
dered sugar,  one  gill  of  nailk,  a very  little  grated  lemon- 
rind,  two  small  wineglassfuls  of  brandy.  Separate  the 
yolks  from  the  whites  of  three  eggs,  and  put  the  former  in- 
to a stew-pan, add  the  sugar,  milk,  and  grated  lemon-rind, 
and  stir  over  the  fire  until  the  mixture  thickens;  but  do 
not  allow  it  to  hoil.  Put  in  the  brandy;  let  the  sauce 
stand  by  the  side  of  the  fire,  to  get  quite  hot;  keep  stir- 
ring it,  and  serve  in  a boat  or  tu  een  separately,  or  pour 
it  over  the  pudding. 

VANILLA  SAUCE. 

£1 

The  whites  of  two  eggs  and  the  yolk  of  one,  half  a 
cupful  of  powdered  sugar,  one  teaspoonful  of  vanilla, 
three  tablespoonfuls  of  milk.  Beat  the  whites  of  the 
eggs  to  a stiff  froth,  next  beat  in  the  sugar,  and  then 
the  yolk,  of  the  egg  and  the  seasoning.  Serve  immedi- 
ately. Tht#’  sauce  is  for  light  puddings. 


THE  EVERYDAY  COOK-BOOK. 


171 


PASTRY. 


VERY  GOOD  PUFP  PASTB. 

‘fo  every  pound  of  flour  allow  one  pound  of  butter, 
and  not  quite  one-half  pint  of  water.  Cvarefully  weigh 
th^  flour  and  butter,  and  have  the  exact  proportion; 
sq-  leeze  the  butter  well,  to  extract  the  water  from  it, 
and  afterwards  wring  it  in  a clean  cloth,  that  no  mois- 
ture may  remain.  Sift  the  flour;  see  that  it  is  perfectly 
dry,  and  proceed  in  the  following  manner  to  make  the 
pa^^te,  using  a very  clean  paste-board  and  rolling-pin. 
Supposing  the  qua;ntity  to  be  one  pound  of  flour,  wo^k 
thci  whole  into  a smooth  paste,  with  not  quite  one-half 
pitkt  of  water,  using  a knife  to  mix  it  with;  the  pro- 
poktion  of  this  latter  ingredient  must  be  regulated  by 
th<k  discretion  of  the  cook;  if  too  much  be  added,  the 
pat  te,  when  baked,  will  be  tough.  Roll  it  out  until  it 
is  of  an  equal  thickness  of  about  an  inch;  break  four 
ounces  of  the  butter  into  small  pieces;  place  these  on 
th€  paste,  sift  over  it  a little  flour,  fold  it  over,  roll  out 
again,  and  put  another  four  ounces  of  butter.  Repeat 
the  rolling  and  buttering  until  the  paste  has  been  rolled 
out  four  times,  or  equal  quantities  of  flpur  and  butter 
have  been  used.  Do  not  omit,  every  time  the  paste  is 
rolled  out,  to  dredge  a little  flour  over  that  and  the  rolling- 
pin,  to  prevent  both  from  sticking.  Handle  the  paste 
as  lightly  as  possible,  and  do  not  press  heavily  upon  it 
with  the  rollmg-pm.  The  next  thing  to  be  considered 
is  the  oven,  as  the  baking  of  pastry  requires  particular 
attention.  Do  not  put  it  into  the  oven  until  it  is  suffi- 
ciently hot  to  raise  the  paste;  for  the  best-prepared 


173  THE  EVERYDAY  COOK-BOOK. 

paste,  if  not  properly  baked,  will  be  good  for  nothing 
Brushing  the  paste  as  often  as  rolled  out,  and  the  pieces 
of  butter  theron,  Avith  the  Avhite  of  an  egg,  assists  it 
to  rise  in  leaves  or  flaJees.  As  this  is  the  great  beauty 
of  puff-paste,  it  is  as  well  to  try  this  method. 

PLAINER  PASTE. 

One  pound  of  flour,  a little  more  for  rolling-pin  and 
board,  and  half  a pound  of  butter  and  half  a pound  of 
lard.  Cut  the  butter  and  lard  through  the  flour  (which 
should  be  sifted),  and  mix  Avith  sufficient  ice  Avater  to 
roll  easily.  Avoid  kneading  it  and  use  the  hands  as 
little  as  possible  in  mixing. 

SUET  CRUST,  FOR  PIES  OR  PUDDINGS. 

To  every  pound  of  flour  allow  five  or  six  ounces  of 
beef  suet,  one-half  pint  of  Avater.  Free  the  suet  from 
skin  and  shreds;  chop  it  extremely  fine,  and  rub  it  Avell 
into  the  flour;  Avork  the  Avhole  to  a smooth  paste  Avith 
the  above  proportion  of  Avater;  roll  it  out  and  it  is 
ready  for  use.  This  crust  is  quite  I'ich  enough  for  ordi- 
nary'purposes;  but  when  a better  one  is  desired,  use 
from  one-half  to  three-quarters  pound  of  suet  to  every 
pound  of  flour.  Some  cooks,  for  rich  crusts,  pound 
the  suet  in  a mortar,  Avith  a small  quantity  of  butter. 
It  should  then  be  laid  on  the  paste  in  small  pieces,  the 
same  as  for  puff-crust,  and  Avill  be  found  exceedingly 
nice  for  hot  tarts.  Five  ounces  of  suet  to  every  pound 
of  flour  Avill  make  a very  good  crust;  and  even  one- 
quarter  pound  will  answer  very  well  for  children,  ot 
where  the  crust  is  wanted  very  plain. 

TO  ICE  PASTRY. 

To  ice  pastrjq  which  is  the  usual  method  adopted  for 
fruit  tarts  and  sweet  dishes  of  pastry,  put  the  white  of 


THE  E VEE  YD  A Y COOK-BOOK.  1 73 

an  egg  on  a plate,  and  with  the  blade  of  a knife  be^it  it 
to  a stiff  froth.  When  the  pastry  is  nearly  baked, 
brush  it  over  with  this,  and  sift  over  ..some  pounded 
sugar;  put  it  back  into  the  oven  to  set  a glaze,  and  in  a 
few  minutes  it  will  be  done.  Great  care  should  b*? 
taken  that  the  paste  does  not  catch  or  burn  in  the  oven, 
which  it  is  very  liable  to  do  after  the  icing  is  laid  on. 

TO  GLAZE  PASTRY. 

To  glaze  pastry,  which  is  the  usual  method  adopted 
for  meat  or  raised  pies,  break  an  egg,  separate  the  ;y  oik 
from  the  white,  and  beat  the  former  for  a short  time. 
Then,  when  the  pastry  is  nearly  baked,  take  it  out,  of 
the  oven,  brush  it  over  with  this  beaten  yolk  of  C'gg, 
and  put  it  back  in  the  oven  to  set  the  glaze. 

MINCE-MEAT, 

Take  five  or  six  pounds  scraggy  beef — a neck  piece 
will  do — and  put  to  boil  in  water  enough  to  cover  it; 
take  off  the  scum  that  rises  when  it  reaches  the  boiling 
point,  add  hot  water  from  time  to  time  until  it  is  tender, 
then  remove  the  lid  from  the  pot,  salt,  let  boil  till 
almost  dry,  turning  the  meat  over  occasionally  in  the 
liquor,  take  from  the  fire,  and  let  stand  over  night,  tO' 
get  thoroughly  cold;  pick  bones,  gristle,  or  stringy  bits 
from  the  meat,  chop  very  fine,  mincing  at  the  same 
time  three  pounds  of  nice  beef  suet;  seed  and  cut  four 
pounds  raisins,  wash  and  dry  four  pounds  currants, 
slice  thin  a pound  of  citron,  chop  fine  four  quarts  good 
cooking  tart  apples;  put  into  a large  pan  together,  add 
two  ounces  cinnamon,  one  of  cloves,  one  of  ginger, 
four  nutmegs,  the  juice  and  grated  rind  of  two  lemons, 
one  tablespoon  salt,  one  teaspoon  pepper,  and  two 
pounds  sugar.  Put  in  a porcelain  kettle  one  quart 
lioiled  cideri  better  stiil,  one  quart  currant  or  grape- 


m TEE  EVERYDAY  COOK-BOOK. 

juice  (canned  when  grapes  are  turning  from  green  to 
purple),  one  quart  nice  molasses  or  syrup,  also  a good 
lump  of  butter;  let  it  come  to  boiling  point,  and  pour 
>ver  the  ingredients  in  the  pan  after  having  first  mixed 
them  well,  then  mix  again  thoroughly.  Pack  in  jars 
and  put  in  a cool  place,  and,  when  cold,  pour  molasses 
over  the  top  an  eighth  of  an  inch  in  thickness,  and 
cover  tightly.  This  will  keep  two  months.  For  bak- 
ing, take  some  out  of  the  jar;  if  not  moist  enough  add 
a little  hot  water,  and  strew  a few  whole  raisins  over 
each  pie.  Instead  of  boiled  beef,  a beef’s  heart  or 
roast  meat  may  be  used;  and  a good  proportion  for  a 
few  pies  is  one-third  chopped  meat  and  two-thirds 
apples,  with  a little  suet,  raisins,  spices,  butter,  and  salt. 

MOCK  MINCE  PIE. 

One  egg,  three  or  four  large  crackers,  or  six  or  eight 
small  ones,  one-half  cup  of  molasses,  one-half  cup  sugar, 
one-half  cup  vinegar,  one-half  cup  strong  tea,  one  cup 
chopped  raisins;  a small  piece  butter,  spice  and  salt. 

APPLE  CUSTARD  PIE. 

Peel  sour  apples  and  stew  until  soft  and  not  much 
\ater  is  left  in  them,  and  rub  through  a colander.  Beat 
turee  eggs  for  each  pie.  Put  in  proportion  of  one  cup 
butter  and  one  of  sugar  for  three  pies.  Season  with 
nutmeg. 

APPLE  MERINGUE  PIE. 

Pare,  slice,  stew  and  sweeten  ripe,  tart  and  juicy 
apples,  mash  and  season  with  nutmeg  (or  stew  lemon- 
peel  with  them  for  flavor),  fill  crust  and  bake  till  done; 
spread  over  the  apple  a thick  meringue  made  by  whip- 
ping to  froth  W'hites  of  three  eggs  for  each  pie,  sweet- 
ening with  three  tablespoons  powdered  sugar;  flavor 


TEE  EVERYDAY  COOK-BOOK 


175 


with  vanilla,  beat  until  it  will  stand  alone,  and  cover  pie 
three-quarters  of  an  inch  thick.  Set  back  in  a quick 
oven  till  well  ‘^set,”  and  eat  cold.  In  their  season  sub- 
stitute peaches  for  apples. 

APPLE  PIE 

Stew  green  or  ripe  apples,  when  you  have  pared  and 
cored  them.  Mash  to  a smooth  compote,  sweeten  to 
taste,  and,  while  hot,  stir  in  a teaspoon  of  butter  for 
each  pie.  Season  with  nutmeg.  When  cool  till  your 
crust,  and  either  cross-bar  the  top  with  strips  of  paste,  or 
bake  without  cover.  Eat  cold,  wdth  powdered  sugar 
strewed  over  it. 

LEMON  PIE. 

The  juice  and  rind  of  one  lemon,  two  eggs,  eight 
heaping  tablespoonfuls  of  sugar,  one  small  teacupful  of 
milk,  one  teaspoonful  of  corn  starch.  Mix  the  corn 
starch  with  a little  of  the  milk.  Put  the  remainder  on  . 
the  fire,  and  when  boiling,  stir  in  the  corn  starch.  Boil*" 
one  minute.  Let  this  cool,  and  add  the  yolks  of  the 
eggs,  four  heaping  tablespoonfuls  of  the  sugar,  and  the 
grated  rind  and  juice  of  the  lemon,  all  beaten  together. 
Have  a deep  pie-plate  lined  with  paste,  and  fill  with  this 
mixture.  Bake  slowly  half  an  hour.  Beat  the  whites 
of  the  eggs  to  a stiff  froth,  and  gradually  beat  into  them 
the  remainder  of  the  sugar.  Cover  the  pie  with  this, 
and  brown  slowly. 

CUSTARD  PIE. 

Make  a custard  of  the  yolks  of  three  eggs  with  milk, 
season  to  tast;  bake  it  in  ordinary  crust;  put  it  in  a quick 
oven,  that  the  crust  may  not  be  heavy,  and  as  soon  as 
that  is  heated  remove  to  a place  m the  oven  of  a more 
moderate  heat,  that  the  custard  may  bake  slowly  and  not 
curdle;  when  done,  beat  the  whites  to  a froth;  add  sugar 
and  spread  over  the  top,  and  return  to  the  oven  to  brown 


176 


THE  EVERYDAY  COOKBOOK. 


slightly;  small  pinch  of  salt  added  to  a custard  heiglitens 
the  flavor;  a little  soda  in  the  crust  prevents  it  from 
being  heavy.  Very  nice. 

COCOANUT  PIE. 

One-half  pound  grated  cocoanut,  three-quarters  pound 
of  white  sugar  (powdered),  six  ounces  of  butter,  five 
eggs,  the  whites  only,  one  glass  of  white  wine,  two 
tablespoonfuls  rose-water,  one  tablespoonful  of  nutmeg. 
Cream  the  butter  and  sugar,  and  when  well-mixed,  beat 
very  light,  with  the  wine  and  rose-water.  Add  the 
cocoanut  with  as  little,  and  as  light  beating  as  possible; 
finally,  whip  in  the  stiffened  whites  of  the  eggs  with  a 
few  skillful  strokes,  and  bake  at  once  in  open  shells. 
Eat  cold,  with  powdered  sugar  sifted  over  them, 

LEMON  TAETS. 

Mix  well  together  the  juice  and  grated  rind  of  two 
lemons,  two  cups  of  sugar,  two  eggs,  and  the  crumbs 
of  sponge  cake;  beat  all  together  until  smooth;  put  into 
twelve  patty-pans  lined  with  puff-paste,  and  bake  until 
the  crust  is  done. 

PASTEY  SANDWICHES. 

Puff-paste,  jam  of  any  kind,  the  white  of  an  egg, 
shifted  sugar. 

Roll  the  paste  out  thin;  put  half  of  it  on  a baking- 
sheet  or  tin,  and  spread  equally  over  it  apricot,  green- 
gage, or  any  preserve,  that  may  be  preferred.  Lay  over- 
this  preserve  another  thin  paste,  press  the  edges  to- 
geather  all  round,  and  mark  the  paste  in  lines  with  a 
knife  on  the  surface,  to  show  where  to  cut  when  baked. 
Bake  for  twenty  minutes  to  half  an  hour;  and  a short 
time  before  being  done,  take  the  pastry  out  of  the  oven, 


TEE  EVERYDAY  COOK-BOOK.' 

brush  it  over  with  the  white  of  an  egg,  sift  over  pounded 
sugar,  and  put  it  back  in  the  oven  to  color.  When 
cold,  cut  it  into  strips;  pile  these  on  a dish  pyramidically, 
and  serve.  These  strips,  cut  about  two  inches  long, 
piled  in  circular  rows,  and  a plateful  of  flavored  whipped 
cream  poured  in  the  middle,  make  a very  pretty  dish. 

CHERRY  PIE. 

Line  the  dish  with  a good  crust,  and  fill  with  ripe 
cherries,  regulating  the  quantity  of  sugar  you  scatter 
over  them  by  their  sweetness.  Cover  and  bake. 

Eat  cold,  with  white  sugar  sifted  over  the  top. 

SQUASH  PIE.- 

Two  cups  of  boiled  squash,  three-fourths  teacup  of 
brown  sugar,  three  eggs,  two  tablespoons  of  molasses, 
one  tablespoon  of  melted  butter,  one  tablespoon  of  gin- 
ger, one  teaspoon  of  cinnamon;  two  teacups  of  milk,  a 
salt,  Make  two  plate  pies. 

CREAM  PIE. 

Pour  a pint  of  cream  upon  a cup  and  a half  powdered 
sugar;  let  stand  until  the  whites  of  three  eggs  have 
been  beaten  to  a stiff  froth;  add  this  to  the  cream,  and 
beat  up  thoroughly;  grate  a little  nutmeg  over  the  mix- 
ture and  bake  in  two  pies  without  upper  crusts. 

TARTLETS. 

Puff-paste,  the  white  of  an  egg,  pounded  sugar. 

Mode:  Roll  some  good  puff-paste  out  thin,  and  cut 
It  into  two  and  a half  inch  squares;  brush  each  square 
over  with  the  white  of  an  egg,  then  fold  down  the  coi- 
oers,  so  tbat  they  aU  meet  in  tbo  middle  of  each  pieco 


178  TEE  EVERYDAY  COOKBOOK. 

of  paste;  slightly  press  the  two  pieces  together,  brush 
them  over  with  the  egg,  sift  over  sugar,  and  bake  in  a 
nice  quick  oven  for  about  a quarter  of  an  hour.  When 
they  are  done,  make  a little  hole  in  the  middle  of  the 
paste,  and  fill  it  up  with  apricot  jam,  marmalade,  or 
red-currant  jelly.  Pile  thorn  high  in  the  center  of  a 
dish,  on  a napkin,  and  garnish  with  the  same  preserve 
the  taitlets  are  filled  with. 

PEACH  PIE. 

Line  a pie-tin  with  pufif-paste,  fill  with  pared  peaches 
in  halves  or  quarters,  well  covered  with  sugar;  put  on 
upper  crust  and  bake;  or  make  as  above  without  upper 
crust,  bake  until  done,  remove  from  the  oven,  and  cover 
with  a meringue  made  of  the  whites  of  two  eggs,  beaten 
to  a stiff  froth  with  two  tablespoons  powdered  sugar; 
return  to  oven  and  brown  slightly.  Canned  peaches 
may  be  used  instead  of  fresh,  in  the  same  way. 

TART  SHELLS. 

Roll  out  thin  a nice  puff-paste,  cut  out  with  a glass 
or  biscuit  cutter,  with  a wine  glass  or  smallei  cup  cut  out 
the  centre  of  two  out  of  three  of  these,  lay  the  rings 
thus  made  on  the  third,  and  bake  immediately;  or  shells 
may  be  made  by  lining  patty-pans  with  paste.  If  the 
paste  is  light,  the  shell  will  be  fine,  and  may  be  used 
for  tarts  or  oyster  patties.  Filled  with  jelly  and  coverd 
with  meringue  (tablespoon  sugar  to  white  of  one  egg) 
and  browned  in  oven,  they  are  very  nice  to  serve  for  tea 

PUMPKIN  PIE. 

One  quart  of  stewed  pumpkin,  pressed  through  - 
sieve;  nine  eggs,  whites  and  yolks  beaten  separately;  two 
scant  quarts  of  milk,  one  teaspoonful  of  mace,  one  toa- 
spoonful  of  cinnamon,  and  the  same  of  nutmeg;  one  and 


THE  E VLB  FDA  F COOK  BOOK.  m 

a half  cups  of  white  sugar,  or  very  light  brown. 
all  well  together,  and  bake  in  crust  without  cover. 

MINCE  PIES. 

Three  pounds  of  raisins,  stone  and  chop  them  a little; 
three  pounds  of  currants,  three  pounds  of  sugar,  three 
pounds  of  suet  chopped  very  fine,  two  ounces  candied 
lemon  peel,  two  ounces  of  candied  orange-peel,  six 
large  apples  grated,  one  ounce  of  cinnamon,  two  nut- 
megs, the  juice  of  three  lemons  and  thc>  rinds  gratedj^ 
and  half  a pint  of  brandy.  Excellent. 


180 


TEE  EVEBYDAJ  COOK-BOOK. 


CAKES. 


WHITE  LADY-CAKE. 

Beat  the  whites  of  eight  eggs  to  a high  froth,  add 
gradually  a pound  of  white  sugar  finely  ground,  beat 
quarter  of  a pound  of  butter  to  a cream,  add  a teacup 
of  sweet  milk  with  a small  teaspoonful  of  powdered 
volatile  salts  or  saleratus  dissolved  in  it ; put  the  eggs 
to  1 lutter  and  milk,  add  as  much  sifted  wheat  flour  as 
will  make  it  as  thick  as  pound  cake  mixture,  and  a 
teaispoon  of  orange-flower  water,  or  lemon  extract,  then 
add  a quarter  of  a pound  of  shelled  almond'^,  blanched 
and  beaten  to  a paste  with  a little  white  of  egg;  beat 
the  whole  together  until  light  and  white;  line  a square 
tin  pan  with  buttered  paper,  put  in  the  mixture  an 
inch  deep,  and  bake  half  an  hour  in  a quick  oven. 
When  done,  take  it  from  the  pan;  when  cold,  take  the 
paper  oflf,  turn  it  upside  down  on  the  bottom  of  the 
pan  and  ice  the  side  which  was  down ; when  the  icing 
is  nearly  hard,  mark  it  in  slices  the  width  of  a finger, 
and  two  inches  and  a half  long. 

MACAROONS. 

One-half  pound  of  sweet  almonds,  one-half  pound  of 
sifted  loaf  sugar,  the  whites  of  three  eggs,  wafer-pa{)er. 
Blanch,  skin  and  dry  the  almonds,  and  pound  them 
well  with  a little  orange-flower  water  or  plain  water ; 
then  add  to  them  the  sifted  sugar  and  the  whites  of  the 

eggs,  which  ehouUl  be  beaten  to  a stiff  froth,  and  mut 


THE  EVERY  DaI  COOK-BOOK 


181 


all  i ite  ingredients  well  together.  When  the  paste  looks 
soft,  drop  it  at  equal  distances  from  a biscuit-syringe 
on  to  sheets  of  wafer-paper ; put  a strip  of  almond  on 
the  top  of  each  ; strew  some  sugar  over  and  bake  the 
macaroons  in  rather  a slow  oven,  of  a light  brown  color. 
When  hard  and  set,  they  are  done,  and  must  not  be 
allowed  to  get  very  brown,  as  that  would  spoil  their 
appearance.  If  the  cakes,  when  baked,  appear  heavy, 
add  a little  more  white  of  egg,  but  let  this  always  be 
well- whisked  before  it  is  added  to  the  other  ingredients. 
We  have  given  a receipe  for  making  these  cakes,  but 
we  think  it  almost  or  quite  as  economical  to  purchase 
such  articles  as  these  at  a good  confectioner’s. 

ALMOND  ICING. 

Whites  of  four  eggs,  one  pound  of  sweet  almonds, 
one  pound  powdered  sugar,  a little  rose-water.  Blanch 
the  almonds  by  pouring  boiling  water  over  them  and 
stri  pping  off  the  skins.  When  dry  pound  them  to  a 
paste,  a few  at  a time  in  a Wedgewood  mortar,  moist- 
ening it  with  water  as  you  go  on.  When  beaten  fine 
and  smooth,  beat  gradually  into  icing.  Put  on  very 
thic  k,  and,  when  nearly  dry,  cover  with^^pkim  icing. 

TO  MAKE  ICING  FOR  CAKES. 

Beat  the  whites  of  two  small  eggs  to  a high  froth; 
then  add  to  them  quarter  pound  of  white  sugar,  ground 
fine,  like  flour;  flavor  with  lemon  extract,  or  vanilla; 
beat  it  until  it  is  light  and  very  white,  but  not  quite  so 
stiff  as  kiss  mixture;  the  longer  it  is  beaten  the  more 
firm  it  will  become.  No  more  sugar  must  be  added  to 
make  it  so.  Beat  the  frosting  until  it  maybe  spread 
smoothly  on  the  cake.  This  quantity  will  ice  quite  a 
large  cake  over  the  top  and  side®. 


183 


TEE  EVERYDAY  COOK-BOOK, 


LOAF  CAKE, 

One  pound  of  butter  beaten  to  a cream;  two  pounds 
of  sugar  rolled  fine,  three  pounds  of  sifted  flour,  six 
well-beaten  eggs,  three  teaspoonfuls  of  powdered  saler- 
atus,  dissolved  in  a little  hot  water,  one  tablespoonful 
of  ground  cinnamon;  and  half  a nutmeg  grated;  add  one 
pound  of  currants,  well  washed  and  dried,  one  pound 
of  raisins  stoned  and  cut  in  two;  work  the  whole  well 
together,  divide  it  into  three  loaves,  put  them  in  ’*ut< 
tered  basins,  and  bake  one  hour  in  a moderate  oven 

RICH  BRIDE  CAEE. 

Take  four  pounds  of  sifted  flour,  four  pounds  of 
sweet,  fresh  butter,  beaten  to  a cream,  and  two  poujjd. 
of  white  powdered  sugar;  take  six  eggs  for  each  poi  ad 
of  flour,  an  ounce  of  ground  mace  or  nutmegs,  an<  a 
tablespoonful  of  lemon  extract  or  orange-flower  wa'‘«r. 

LADY  FINGERS. 

Take  eight  eggs;  whip  the  whites  to  a firm  snow. 
In  the  meantime,  have  the  yolks  beaten  up  with 
ounces  of  powdered  sugar.  Each  of  these  operati-  >U3 
should  be  performed  at  least  one  hour.  Then  mix  ail 
together  with  six  ounces  of  sifted  flour;  and  when  \>;I1 
incorporated,  stir  in  half  a pint  of  rose  or  orange- 
flower  water;  stir  them  together  for  some  time. 

Have  ready  some  tin  plates,  rubbed  with  white  w.ax; 
take  a funnel  with  three  or  four  tubes;  fill  it  with  he 
paste,  and  press  out  the  cakes  upon  the  plates,  to  the 
size  and  length  of  a finger;  grate  white  sugar  over  each; 
let  them  lay  until  the  sugar  melts  and  they  shine;  then 
put  them  in  a moderate  even,  until  they  have  a Me 
color;  when  cool,  take  them  from  the  tins,  and  iay 


TEE  EVERYDAY  COOKBOOK 


them  together  in  couples,  by  the  backs.  These  cakes 
may  be  formed  with  a spoon,  on  sheets  of  writing  paper. 
Half  this  quantity  will  be  trouble  enough  at  one  time. 

QUEEN  CAKE. 

^ Beat  one  pound  of  butter  to  a cream,  with  a table^ 
spoonful  of  rose-water ; then  add  one  pound  of  fine 
white  sugar,  ten  eggs,  beaten  very  light,  and  a pound 
and  a quarter  of  sifted  flour ; beat  the  cake  well  to- 
gether ; then  add  half  a pound  of  shelled  almonds, 
blanched  and  beaten  to  a paste  ; butter  tin  round  basins, 
line  them  with  white  paper  ; put  in  the  mixture  an  inch 
and  a half  deep ; bake  one  hour  in  a quick  oven. 

CHOCOLATE  MACAROONS. 

Put  three  ounces  of  plain  chocolate  in  a pan  and 
melt  on  a slow  fire ; then  work  it  to  a thick  paste  with 
one  pound  of  powdered  sugar  and  the  whites  of  three 
eggs  ; roll  the  mixture  down  to  the  thickness  of  about 
one- quarter  of  an  inch  ; cut  it  in  small,  round  pieces 
with  a paste-cutter,  either  plain  or  scalloped  ; butter  a 
pan  slightly,  and  dust  it  with  flour  and  sugar  in  equal 
quantities  ; place  in  it  the  pieces  of  paste  or  mixture, 
and  bake  in  a hot  but  not  quick  oven. 

CARAMEL  CAKE. 

One  cup  of  butter,  two  of  sugar,  a scant  cup  milk, 
one  and  a half  cups  flour,  cup  corn  starch,  whites  of 
seven  eggs,  three  teaspoons  baking  powder  in  the  flour ; 
bake  m a long  pan.  Take  half  pound  brown  sugar, 
scant  quarter  pound  chocolate,  half  cup  milk,  butter 
size  of  an  egg,  two  teaspoonfuls  vanilla  ; mix  thor- 
oughly and  cook  as  syrup  until  stiff  enough  to  spread : 
spread  on  cake  and  set  in  the  oven  to  dry. 


184 


THE  EVERYDAY  COOHBOOK. 


POUND  CAKE. 

One  pound  of  butter,  one  and  one-quarter  pounds  of 
flour,  one  pound  of  pounded  loaf  sugar,  ^ )ne  pound  of 
currants,  nine  eggs,  two  ounces  of  candied  peel,  one- 
half  ounce  of  citron,  one-half  ounce  of  sweet  almonds; 
when  liked,  a little  pounded  mace.  Work  the  butter 
to  a cream  ; dredge  in  the  flour ; add  the  sugar,  cur- 
rants, candied  peel,  which  should  be  cut  into  neat  slices, 
and  the  almonds,  which  should  be  blanched  and  chop- 
ped, and  mix  all  these  well  together;  whisk  the  eggs 
and  let  them  be  thoroughly  blended  with  the  dry 
ingredients.  Beat  the  cake  well  for  twenty  minutes, 
and  put  it  into  a round  tin,  lined  at  the  bottom  and 
sides  with  a strip  of  white  buttered  paper.  Bake  it 
from  one  and  one-half  to  two  hours,  and  let  the  oven  be 
well  heated  when  the  cake  is  first  put  in,  as,  if  this  is 
not  the  case,  the  currants  will  all  sink  to  the  bottom  of 
it.  To  make  this  preparation  light,  the  yolks  and 
whites  of  the  eggs  should  be  beaten  separately  and 
added  separately  to  the  other  ingredients.  A glass  oi 
wine  is  added  to  the  mixture  ; but  this  is  scarcely 
necessary,  as  the  cake  will  be  found  quite  rich  enough 
without  it. 

COCOANUT  SPONGE  CAKE. 

Beat  the  yolks  of  six  eggs  with  half  a pound  of  sugar 
and  a quarter  of  a pound  of  flour,  add  a teaspoonful  of 
salt,  a teaspoonful  of  lemon  essence  and  half  a nutmeg, 
grated  ; beat  the  whites  of  the  eggs  to  a fi'oth,  and  stir 
them  to  the  yolks,  etc.,  and  the  white  meat  of  a cocoa- 
nut,  grated  ; line  square  tin  pans  with  buttered  paper, 
and  having  stirred  the  ingredients  well  together,  put 
the  mixture  in  an  inch  deep  in  the  pans  ; bake  m a 
quick  oven  half  an  hour ; cut  it  in  squares,  to  serve 
with  or  without  icing. 


THE  EVERYDAY  COOK-BOOK.  !$• 

COCOANUT  POUND  CAKE. 

Beat  half  a pound  of  butter  to  a cream;  add  gradu- 
ally a pound  of  sifted  flour,  one  pound  of  powdered 
sugar,  two  teaspoonfuls  baking  powder,  a pinch  of  salt, 
a teaspoonful  of  grated  lemon-peel,  quarter  of  a pound 
of  prepared  cocoanut,  four  well-beaten  eggs,  and  a cup- 
ful of  milk;  mix  thoroughly;  butter  the  tins,  and  line 
them  with  buttered  paper;  pour  the  mixture  in  to  the 
depth  of  an  inch  and  a half,  and  bake  in  a good  oven. 
When  baked  take  out,  spread  icing  over  them,  and  re- 
turn the  cake  to  the  oven  a moment  to  dry  the  icing. 

COCOANUT  CUP  CAKE. 

Two  cups  sugar,  two  cups  of  butter,  one  cup  of  milk, 
one  teaspoonful  of  essence  of  lemon,  half  a nutmeg 
grated,  four  well- beaten  eggs  and  the  white  meat  of  a 
cocoanut  grated;  use  as  much  sifted  wheat  flour  as  will 
make  a rather  stiff  batter;  beat  it  well,  butter  square 
tin  pans,  line  them  with  white  paper,  and  put  in  the 
mixture  an  inch  deep;  bake  in  a moderate  oven  half  an 
Vour,  or  it  may  require  ten  minutes  longer.  When 
cold,  cut  in  small  squares  or  diamonds;  this  is  a rich 
cake  and  is  much  improved  by  a thin  icing.  This  cake 
should  be  made  with  fine  white  sugar. 

COCOANUT  DROPS. 

Break  a cocoanut  in  pieces,  and  lay  it  in  cold  wat^ew 
then  cut  off  the  dark  rind,  and  grate  the  white  meat  on 
a coarse  grater;  put  the  whites  of  four  eggs  with  half  e* 
pound  of  powdered  white  sugar;  beat  it  until  it  is  ligh*^ 
tund  white,  then  add  to  it  a teaspoonfui  of  lemon  ex 
tract,  and  gradually  as  much  grated  cocoanut  as  wt& 
ooake  it  thick  as  can  be  stirred  easily  with  a apooiu; 


186 


TBE  EVERYDAY  roOK-BOOR. 


lay  it  in  heaps  the  size  of  a large  nutmeg  on  sheets  of 
white  paper,  place  them  tlie  distance  of  half  an  inch 
apart;  when  the  paper  is  full,  lay  it  on  a baking  tin, 
set  them  in  a quick  oven;  when  they  begin  to  look  yel- 
lowish, they  are  done;  let  them  remain  on  the  paper 
until  nearly  cold,  then  take  them  off  with  a thin-bladed 
knife. 

CITRON  HEART  CAKES. 

Beat  half  a pound  of  butter  to  a cream,  take  six  eggs, 
beat  the  whites  to  a froth,  and  the  yolks  with  half  a 
pound  of  sugar,  and  rather  more  than  half  a pound  of 
sifted  flour,  beat  these  well  together,  add  a wineglass 
of  brandy,  and  quarter  of  a pound  of  citron  cut  in  thin 
slips,  bake  it  in  small  heart-shaped  tins,  or  a square  tin 
pan,  rubbed  over  with  a bit  of  sponge  dipped  in  melted 
butter;  put  the  mixture  in  a quick  oven.  These  are 
very  fine  cakes.  Shred  almonds  may  be  used  instead 
of  citron. 


IMPERIAL  CAKE. 

One  pound  of  flour,  half  a pound  of  butter,  three- 
quarters  of  a pound  of  sugar,  four  eggs,  half  a pound 
of  currants,  well-washed  and  dredged,  half  a teaspoon- 
ful of  soda  dissolved  in  hot  water,  half  a lemon,  grated 
rind  and  juice,  one  teaspoonful  of  cinnamon.  Drop 
from  a spoon  upon  well-buttered  paper,  lining  a baking- 
pan.  Bake  quickly. 

PLUM  CAKE. 

Make  a cake  of  two  cups  of  butter,  two  cups  of  mo- 
lasses, one  cup  of  sweet  milk,  two  eggs,  well-beaten, 
one  teaspoonful  of  powdered  saleratus,  dissolved  with 
a little  hot  water,  one  teaspoonful  of  ground  mace  or 
nutmeg,  one  teaspoonful  of  ground  allspice,  a table- 


THE  EVERYDAY  GOOK^BOOK.n 


IW 

ispconful  of  cinnamon,  and  a gill  of  brandy;  stir  in 
flour  to  make  a battei’  as  stiff  as  may  be  stirred  easily 
with  a spoon;  beat  it  well  until  it  is  light,  then  add 
two  pounds  of  raisins,  stoned,  and  cut  in  two,  two 
pounds  of  currants,  picked,  washed,  and  dried,  and 
half  a pound  of  citron,  cut  in  slips.  Bake  in  a quick 
oven.  This  is  a fine,  rich  cake,  easily  made,  and  not 
expensive. 

GOLD  AND  SILVER  CAKE. 

Gold  Part. — Yolks  of  eight  eggs,  scant  cup  butter, 
two  of  sugar,  four  of  flour,  one  of  sour  milk,  teaspoon 
soda,  tablespoon  corn  starch;  flavor  with  lemon  and 
vanilla. 

Silver  Part. — Two  cups  sugar,  one  of  butter,  four 
(scant)  of  flour,  one  of  sour  milk,  teaspoon  soda,  table- 
spoon corn  starch,  whites  of  eight  eggs;  flavor  with 
almond  or  peach.  Put  in  pan,  alternately,  one  spoon- 
ful of  gold  and  one  of  silver. 

TO  MAKE  SMALL  SPONGE  CAKES. 

The  weight  of  five  eggs  in  flour,  the  weight  of  eight 
in  pounded  loaf  sugar;  flavor  to  taste.  Let  the  flour 
be  perfectly  dry,  and  the  sugar  well  pounded  and  sifted. 
Separate  the  whites  from  the  yolks  of  the  eggs,  and 
beat  the  latter  up  with  the  sugar;  then  whisk  the  whites 
until  they  become  rather  stiff,  and  mix  them  with  the 
yolks,  but  do  not  stir  them  more  than  is  just  necessary 
to  mingle  the  ingredients  well  together.  Dredge  in  the 
flour  by  degrees,  add  the  flavoring;  butter  the  tins 
well,  pour  in  the  batter,  sift  a little  sugar  over  the  cakes, 
and  bake  them  in  rather  a quick  oven,  but  do  not  allow 
them  to  take  too  much  color,  as  they  should  be  rather 
pale.  Remove  them  from  the  tins  before  they  get  cold, 
and  turn  them  on  their  faces,  where  let  them  remain 
until  quite  cold,  when  store  them  away  in  ^ closed  tin 
canister  or  wide-mouthed  glass  bottle. 


THE  EVERYDAY  COOK-BOOK. 


LEMON  CHEESE  CAKE. 

Two  cups  sugar,  half  cup  butter,  three-quarters  cu) 
sweet  milk,  whites  of  six  eggs,  three  cups  flour,  three 
teaspoons  baking  powder. 

Sauce  for  Lemon  Cheese  Cake.- — Grated  rind  and 
juice  of  two  lemons,  yolks  of  three  eggs,  half  cup  but- 
ter, one  cup  sugar;  mix  all  together,  and  set  on  stove, 
and  cook  till  thick  as  sponge,  stirring  all  the  time;  then 
use  like  jelly  between  the  cakes. 

SNOW  CAKE. 

One  pound  of  arrowroot,  half  pound  pounded  white 
sugar,  half  pound  butter,  the  whites  of  six  eggs;  flavor- 
ing to  taste,  of  essence  of  almonds,  or  vanilla,  or  lemon. 

Mode:  Beat  the  butter  to  a cream;  stir  in  the  sugar 
and  arrowroot  gradually,  at  the  same  time  beating  the 
mixture.  Whisk  the  whites  of  the  eggs  to  a stiflf  froth, 
add  them  to  the  other  ingredients,  and  beat  well  for 
twenty  minutes.  Put  in  whichever  of  the  above  flavor- 
ing may  be  preferred;  pour  the  cake  into  a buttered 
mold  or  tin,  and  bake  it  in  a moderate  oven  from  one  to 
one  and  a half  hours. 

TILDEN  CAKE. 

One  cup  butter,  two  of  pulverized  sugar,  one  of 
sweet  milk,  three  of  flour,  half  cup  com  starch,  four 
eggs,  two  teaspoons  baking  powder,  two  of  lemon  ex- 
tract. This  is  excellent. 

CORN  STARCH  CAKE. 

Whites  of  six  eggs,  one  cup  of  butter,  two  cups  of 
flour,  one  cup  of  corn  starch,  two  cups  of  sugar,  one 
cup  of  sweet  milk,  one-half  teaspoonful  of  soda,  one  of 
cream  of  tartar. 


THE  EVERYDAY  COOK-BOOK, 


1B9 


BIRTHDAY  CAKE. 

One  pound  and  a half  of  fine  sugar,  one  pound  and  a 
half  of  butter,  three  pounds  and  a half  of  currants,  two 
pounds  of  flour,  one-half  pound  of  candied  peel,  one-half 
pound  almonds,  two  ounces  spices,  the  grated  rind  of 
three  lemons,  eighteen  eggs,  one  gill  of  brandy.  Pa- 
per the  hoops,  and  bake  three  hours.  Ice  when  cold. 

NAPLES  BISCUIT. 

Beat  eight  eggs  light;  add  to  them  one  pound  of  fine 
white  sugar,  and  one  pound  of  sifted  wheat  flour;  flavor 
with  a teaspoonful  of  salt,  and  essence  of  lemon  or 
orange-flower  water;  beat  it  until  it  rises  in  bubbles; 
bake  in  a quick  oven. 

CAKE  TRIPLE. 

Bake  a Naples  Biscuit;  cut  out  the  inside  about  one 
inch  from  the  edge  and  bottom,  leaving  the  shell.  In 
place  of  the  inside,  put  a custard  made  of  the  yolks  of 
four  eggs,  beaten  with  a pint  of  boiling  milk,  sweet- 
ened, and  flavored  with  half  a teaspoonful  of  peach- 
water;  lay  on  it  some  jelly^  or  jam;  beat  the  whites  of 
two  eggs,  with  white  ground  sugar,  until  it  will  stand 
in  a heap;  put  it  on  the  jelly,  and  serve. 

SAVOY  CAKE. 

The  weight  of  four  eggs  in  pounded  loaf-sugar,  the 
weight  of  seven  in  flour,  a little  grated  lemon-rind,  or 
essence  of  almonds,  or  orange-flower  water.  Break  the 
seven  eggs,  putting  the  yolks  into  one  basin  and  the 
whites  into  another.  Whisk  the  former,  and  mix  with 
them  the  sugar,  the  grated  lemon-rind,  or  any  other 
flavoring  to  taste;  beat  them  well  together,  and  add  the 


190 


TEE  EyEETDAT  cook-book. 


whites  of  the  eggs,  whisked  to  a froth.  Put  in  the 
flour  by  degrees,  continuing  to  beat  the  mixture  for 
one-quarter  of  an  hour,  butter  a mold,  pour  in  the  cake, 
and  bake  it  from  one  and  a quarter  to  one  and  a half 
hours.  This  is  a very  nice  cake  for  dessert,  and  may 
be  iced  for  a supper  table,  or  cut  into  slices  and  spread 
with  jam,  which  converts  it  into  sandwiches. 

COMPOSITION  CAKE. 

Five  cups  <rf  floor,  two  cups  of  butter,  three  of  sugar, 
one  of  milk,  five  eggs,  one  teaspoon  of  soda;  two  of 
cream  of  tartar,  fruit  as  you  please,  cinnamon,  nutmeg 
and  clove  to'taste. 

ALMOND  CBEAM  CAKE. 

On  beaten  whites  of  ten  eggs  sift  one  and  a half  gob- 
lets of  pulverized  sugar,  and  a goblet  of  flour,  through 
which  has  been  stirred  a heaping  teaspoon  cream  tartar; 
stir  very  gently  and  do  not  heat  it;  bake  in  jelly-pans. 
For  cream,  take  a half  pint  of  sweet  cream,  yolks  of 
three  eggs,  tablespoon  pulverized  sugar,  teaspoon  corn 
starch;  dissolve  starch  smoothly  with  a little  milk,  beat 
yolks  and  sugar  together  with  this,  boil  the  cream,  and 
stir  these  ingredients  in  as  for  any  cream  cake  filling, 
only  make  a little  thicker;  blanch  and  chop  fine  a half 
pound  almonds  and  stir  into  the  cream.  Put  together 
like  jelly  cake  while  icing  is  soft,  and  stick  in  a half 
pound  of  almonds,  split  in  two. 

ICE-CREAM  CAKE.  * . 

Make  good  sponge  cake,  bake  half  an  inch  thick  in 
jelly-pans,  and  let  them  get  perfectly  cold;  take  a pint 
thickest  sweet  cream,  beat  until  it  looks  like  ice-cream, 
make  very  sweet,  and  flavor  with  vanilla;  blanch  and 


TEE  EVERYDAY  COOEBOOK, 


191 


c&ap  a pound  almonds,  stir  into  cream  and  put  very 
thick  ^between  each  layer.  This  is  the  queen  of  alJ 
cakes. 

ECONOMICAL  CAKE. 

One  pound  of  flour,  one-quarter  pound  of  sugar,  one- 
quarter  pound  of  butter  or  lard,  one-half  pound  of  cur- 
rants, on^  teaspoonful  of  carbonate  of  soda,  the  whites 
of  four  eggs,  one-half  pint  of  milk.  In  making  maay 
sweet  dishes,  the  whites  of  eggs  are  not  required, 
if  well  beaten  and  added  to  the  above  ingredients,  make 
an  excellent  cake,  with  or  without  currants.  Beat  thf 
u utter  to  a cream,  well  whisk  the  whites  of  the  eggs  ^ 
and  stir  all  the  ingredients  together  but  the  soda,  whicA 
must  not  be  added  until  all  is  well  mixed;  and  the  cake 
is  ready  to  be  put  in  the  oven.  When  the  mixture  has 
been  well  beaten,  stir  in  the  soda,  put  the  cake  into  a 
buttered  mold,  and  bake  it  in  a moderate  oven  for  one 
and  a half  hours. 

DELICATE  CAKE. 

Three  cups  of  flour,  two  of  sugar,  three-fourths  cup 
if  sweet  milk,  whites  of  six  eggs,  half  cup  butter,  tea- 
spoon cream  tartar,  half  teaspoon  of  soda.  Flavor  with 

lemon. 

ORANGE  CAKE. 

One  cup  of  sugar,  half  a cup  of  butter,  half  a cup  of 
sweet  milk,  two  cups  of  flour,  three  f ggs,  one  and  a 
half  teaspoonfuls  of  baking  powder;  bake  in  jejly-tins. 

Orange  Frosting  for  Same.  One  orange,  gi^te  off 
the  outside,  and  mix  with  juice,  and  add  sugar , until 
quite  stiff,  and  make  like  jelly  cake;  make  four  layers 
tftbeoate. 


THE  EVERYDAY  COOK-BOOH. 

FRIED  CAKES. 


lii 


One  cup  of  sugar,  two  eggs,  half  a cup  of  shortening, 
one  teaspoon  of  soda,  one  cup  of  sour  milk,  cut  in 
rings;  have  your  lard  very  hot,  in  which  place  a peeled 
potato  to  keep  lard  from  burning,  and  drop  in  your 
cakes;  they  will  come  to  the  top  of  lard  when  light;  fry 
a dark  brown;  when  taken  out  sprinkle  sugar  over  them 

JELLY  KISSES. 

Kisses  to  be  served  for  dessert  at  a large  dinner, 
with  other  suitable  confectionery,  may  be  varied  in  this 
way:  Having  made  the  kisses,  put  them  in  a moderate 
oven,  until  the  outside  is  a little  hardened;  then  take 
one  off  carefully,  as  before  directed;  take  out  the  soft 
inside  with  the  handle  of  a spoon,  and  put  it  back  with 
the  mixture,  to  make  more;  then  lay  the  shell  down. 
Take  another,  and  prepare  it  likewise;  fill  the  shells 
with  currant  jelly,  or  jam;  join  two  together;  so  con- 
tinue until  you  have  enough.  Make  kisses,  cocoanut 
drops,  and  such  like,  the  day  before  they  are  wanted. 

COCOANUT  KISSES. 

Make  a kiss  mixture;  add  to  it  half  a cup  of  co<'oa- 
nut,  grated  (the  white  meat  only);  finish  as  directed  for 
kissses. 

HO  CAKE. 

SHwr  Pant. — ^Two  cups  sugar,  twothirds  cup  butter, 
not  quite  two-thirds  cup  sweet  milk,  whites  of  eight 
eggs,  three  heaping  teaspoons  baking  powder,  thor 
oughly  sifted,  with  three  cups  of  flour;  stir  sugar  and 
butter  to  a cream,  add  milk  and  flour,  and  last  whites 
of  e^. 

Chid  — One  cup  sugar,  three-forndhscup  butter, 


THE  E VEE  YD  A T COOHBOOE.  If  8 

half  cup  sweet  milk,  one  and  a half  teaspoons  baking 
powder  sifted  in  a little  more  than  one  and  a half  cups 
flour,  yolks  of  seven  eggs  thoroughly  beaten,  and  one 
whole  egg,  one  teaspoon  allspice,  and  cinnamon  until 
you  can  taste  it;  bake  the  whites  in  two  long  pie-tins. 
Put  half  the  gold  in  a pie-tin,  and  lay  on  one  pound 
halved  figs  (previously  sifted  over  with  flour),  so  that 
they  will  just  touch  each  other;  put  on  the  rest  of  the 
gold,  and  bake.  Put  the  cakes  together  with  frosting 
while  warm,  the  gold  between  the  white  ones,  and  cover 
with  frosting. 

CALIFORNIA  CAKE. 

Two  cups  of  sugar,  one  cup  of  butter,  one  cup  milk, 
two  eggs,  three  teaspoons  baking  powder,  put  in  three 
cufjs  sifted  flour,  flavor  and  add  fruit.  This  receipe 
makes  two  cakes. 

WHITE  MOUNTAIN  CAKE. 

One  cup  sugar,  one-half  cup  of  butter,  one-half  cup 
sw(}et  milk.v  one-half  cup  corn  starch,  one  cup  flour, 
whites  of  six  eggs,  a little  vanilla,  two  teaspoontuls 
baking  powder.  Bake  in  layers. 

Frosting  for  Above. — Whites  of  five  eggs,  twenty 
tablespoonfuls  sifted  sugar,  beaten  very  light;  a little 
vanilla.  Spread  between  layers,  and  outside  of  cake. 

LEMON  CAKE. 

One-half  cup  of  sugar,  one  teaspoon  butter,  one  table- 
spoonful of  milk,  three  eggs,  on  up  flour,  one  tea- 
spoon baking  powder;  bake  in  y-tins,  put  between 
two  apple  and  one  lemon,  grated  together  with  a little 
sugar. 

STRAWBERRY  SHORTCAKE. 

Make  good  biscuit  crust;  bake  in  two  tins  of  same 
«hapa  fv^d  size;  mix  berries  with  plenty  of  sugar;  opeo 


*194  THE  EVERYDAY  COOK-BOOK. 

the  shortcake,  butter  well  and  place  the  berries  in  layers, 
alternated  with  the  crust;  have  the  top  layer  of  berriea 
and  over  all  put  charlotte  russe  or  whipped  cream. 

MARBJaE  cake. 

White  Part.— -Whites  of  seven  eggs,  three  cups 
white  sugar,  one  of  butter,  one  of  sour  milk,  four  of 
flour,  sifted  and  heaping,  o',\e  teaspoon  soda;  flavor  to 
taste 

Dark  Part. — Yolks  of  r wen  eggs,  three  cups  brown 
sugar,  one  of  butter,  one  of  sour  milk,  four  of  flour, 
sifted  and  heaping,  one  tab? i.  spoon  each  of  cinnamon, 
allspice  and  cloves,  one  teaspoon  soda;  put  in  pans  a 
spoonful  of  white  part  and  tbrn  a spoonful  of  dark  and 
so  on.  Bake  an  hour  and  a quarter.  Use  coffee  cups 
to  measure.  This  will  make  one  large,  and  one  medium 
cake.  The  white  and  dark  pa'ts  are  alternate,  either 
putting  in  a spoonful  of  white,  then  of  dark,  or  a layer 
of  white  and  then  of  dark  part,  (being  careful  that  the 
cake  may  be  nicely  “marbelized.’^'’ 

WHITE  POUNF  CAKE. 

One  pound  sugar,  one  of  flour,  half  pound  butter, 
whites  of  sixteen  eggs,  teaspoon  batting  powder  sifted 
tho-oughly  with  flour;  put  in  cool  oven  with  gradual 
increase  of  heat.  For  boiled  iceing  for  cake,  take  three 
cups  sugar  boiled  in  one  of  water  until  clear;  beat  the 
whites  of  three  eggs  to  a very  stiff  froth,  and  pour  over 
them  the  boiling  liquid,  beating  all  the  time  for  ten 
minutes;  froth  while  both  cake  and  iceing  are  warm. 

NELLY’S  CHOCOLATE  CAKE. 

One  cup  of  batter,  two  of  sugar,  five  eggs,  leaving 
out  two  of  the  whites,  one  scant  cup^f  milk,  two  full 
teaspoons  of  baking  powder ; mix  well  in  three  cups 


TEE  EVERYDAY  COOKBOOK. 


19i 


flour;  bake  in  two  long  shallow  tins.  Dressing:  Beat 
the  whites  of  two  eggs  to  a stiff  froth,  add  a scant  cup 
and  a half  of  sugar;  flavor  with  vanilla,  add  six  table- 
spoons of  grated  chocolate;  add  the  dressing  when  the 
cake  is  cold,  and  cut  in  diamond  slices. 

RICE  CAKE. 

One  cupful  of  butter,  two  of  sugar,  two  and  one- 
fourth  of  rice  flour,  six  eggs,  the  juice  and  rind  of  a 
lemon.  Beat  .the  butter  to  a cream;  then  gradually 
beat  in  the  sugar,  and  add  the  lemon.  Beat  the  yokes 
and  whites  separately,  and  add  them  to  the  beaten  sugar 
and  butter.  Add  also  the  rice  flour.  Pour  into  a 
shallow  pan,  to  the  depth  of  about  two  inches.  Bake 
from  thirty-five  to  forty-five  minutes  in  a moderate  oven. 

CREAM  CAKE. 

Two  eggs,  one  cup  of  sugar,  one  cup  of  cream,  two 
cups  of  flour,  one  teaspoonful  of  cream  of  tartar,  and 
one  teasn'''""^*;;^  ^ " _.^ua. 

DOUGHNUTS. 

One  cup  of  sugar,  two  eggs,  two  tablespoons  of 
melted  butter,  two-thirds  cup  of  milk,  two  even  tea- 
spoons of  cream  tartar,  one  even  teaspoon  of  soda,  flour 
enough  to  roll,  salt  and  nutmeg. 

SPONGE  CAKE. 

One  pound  sugar,  one  of  flour,  ten  eggs.  Stir  yolks 
of  eggs  and  sugar  till  perfectly  light ; beat  whites  of 
eggs  and  add  them  with  the  flour  after  beating  together 
lightly;  flavor  with  lemon.  Three  teaspoons  baking 
powder  in  the  flour  will  add  to  its  lightness,  but  it 
never  fails  without.  ' Bake  in  a moderate  oven. 


m 


THE  EVERYDAY  COOK-BOOK. 


COFFEE  CAKE. 

Two  cups  brown  sugar,  one  of  butter,  one  of  mo- 
lasses, one  of  strong  coffee  as  prepared  for  the  table, 
four  eggs,  one  teaspoon  saleratus,  two  of  cinnamon, 
two  of  cloves,  one  of  grated  nutmeg,  pound  raisins, 
one  of  currants,  four  cups  flour. 

SOFT  GINGERBREAD. 

Six  cupfuls  of  flour,  three  of  molasses,  one  of  cream, 
one  of  lard  or  butter,  two  eggs,  one  teaspoonful  of 
sah^ratus,  and  two  of  ginger.  This  is  excellent. 

SPICE  CAKE. 

One  and  one-half  cups  of  sugar,  half  ’ci’p  butter,  half 
of  sour  milk,  two  cups  of  raisins  chopped,  three  eggs, 
hal  f a nutmeg,  one  teaspoon  cinnamon,  one  of  cloves, 
on<:;  saleratus;  mix  rather  stiff;  bake  in  loaf  tins  in 
mo  derate  oven. 

SWEET  STRAWBERRY  SHORTCAKE. 

Three  eggs,  one  cupful  sugar,  two  of  flour,  one  table- 
spoonful of  butter,  a teaspoonful,  heaped,  of  baking 
powder.  Beat  the  butter  and  sugar  together,  and  add 
the  eggs  well-beaten.  Stir  ia  the  flour  and  baking 
powder  well  sifted  together.  Bake  in  deep  tin  plates. 
This  quantity  will  fill  four  plates.  With  three  pints  of 
strawberries  mix  a cupful  of  sugar.  Spread  the  fruit 
between  the  layers  of  cake.  The  top  layer  of  straw- 
berries may  be  covered  with  a meringue  made  with  the 
white  of  an  egg  and  a tablespoonful  of  powdered  sugar. 

GINGER  NUTS. 

One  and  three-quarter  pounds  of  syrup,  one  pound 
of  moist  sugar,  onerpound  of  butter,  two  and  three- 


THE  EVERTDAT  COOKBOOK.  197 

quarter  pounds  of  flour,  one  and  a half  ounces  of 
ground  ginger,  one  and  a half  ounces  of  allspice,  one 
and  a half  ounces  of  coriander  seed,  sal  volatile  size  of 
a bean,  a little  Cayenne,  flour  enough  to  roll  out,  but 
not  thin,  cut  with  a wineglass  or  roll  between  your 
hands  into  small  balls,  and  pinch. 

RIBBON  CAKE. 

Two  cupfuls  of  sugar,  one  of  butter,  one  of  milk, 
four  of  flour  (rather  scant),  four  eggs,  half  a teaspoon- 
ful of  soda,  one  of  cream  of  tartar.  Beat  the  butter  to 
a cream.  Add  the  sugar  gradually,  beat  all  the  while; 
then  the  flavoring  (lemon  or  nutmeg).  Beat  the  eggs 
very  light.  Add  them  and  the  milk.  Measure'  the 
flour  after  it  hr<5  been  sifted.  Return  it  to  the  sieve, 
and  mix  the  soda  and  cream  of  tartar  with  it.  Sift  this 
into  the  bowl  of  beaten  ingredients.  Beat  quickly  and 
vigorously,  to  thoroughly  mix,  and  then  stop.  Take 
three  sheet  pans  of  the  same  size,  and  in  each  of  two  put 
one-third  of  the  mixture,  and  bake.  To  the  other  third 
add  four  tablespoonfuls  of  cinnamon,  a cup  of  currants 
and  about  an  eight  of  a pound  of  citron,  cut  fine.  Bake 
this  in  the  remaining  pan.  When  done,  take  out  of  the 
pans.  Spread  the  light  cake  with  a thin  layer  of  jelly, 
while  warm.  Place  on  this  the  darli  cake,  and  spread 
with  jelly.  Place  the  other  sheet  of  light  cake  on  this. 
Lay  a paper  over  all,  and  then  a thin  sheet,  on  which 
put  two  irons.  The  cake  will  press  in  about  two  hours., 

JELLY  ROLL. 

Make  the  sponge  cake  mixture  as  for  lady-fingers, 
and  bake  in  one  shallow  pan  twenty  minutes.  While  it 
is  yet  warm  cut  off  the  edges,  and  spread  the  cake  with 
any  kind  of  jelly.  Roll  up,  and  pin  a towel  around  it. 
Put  in  a cool  place  until  serving  time.  Cut  in  slices 
with  a sharp  knife. 


THE  EVERYDAY  COOK-BOOR. 


DELICATE  CRULLERS, 

Take  four  eggs,  four  tablespbonfuls  of  lard,  four  ta- 
blespoonfuls of  sugar,  a teaspoonful  of  salt,  and  half  a 
nutmeg  grated,  a teaspoonful  of  lemon  extract  may  be 
added;  work  into  these  as  much  sifted  flour  as  will 
make  a nice  dough,  roll  Jt  to  about  an  eighth  of  an 
inch  thickness,  and  fry  as  directed  for  doughnuts  and 
crullers. 

To  make  little  baskets,  cut  tlie  paste  in  strips  an  inch 
and  a half  wide,  and  three  inches  long,  and  with  a gig- 
gling iron  cut  slices  across  it  from  one  side  ^o  the 
other,  within  a quarter  of  an  inch  of  cither  edge,  and 
quarter  of  an  inch  apart;  then  join  the  two  ends  together 
in  a circle,  forming  the  basket;  press  it  down  slightly, 
that  the  strips  may  bulge,  and  so  form  the  basket,  like 
those  made  for  fly-traps  of  paper;  so  soon  as  they  are 
taken  from  the  fat  (five  minutes  will  do  them),  grate 
white  sugar  over. 


JSecipes  bylBoriorrotloi^d 

GRAPE  WINE. 

Pick  ripe  grapes  from  the  stems  and 
crush  out  all  the  juice  by  mashing  in  a 
tub  with  a potato  beetle.  Strain  through 
a bag,  pressing  out  every  drop  of  juice. 
To  each  quart  of  juice  add  a half-pound  of 
white  sugar  and  put  away  in  a clean  jar 
to  ferment.  Cover  the  mouth  of  the  jar 
with  cheesecloth  so  that  not  a particle  of 
any  foreign  matter  can  drop  in,  as  it  will 
ruin  the  wine.  Stand  for  three  or  four 
weeks,  or  until  all  fermentation  ceases, 
then  pour  carefully  off  the  lees  and  hot 


ELECTRO  DENTAL  ROOMS,  52  State-st 

Klectro  Process,  No  Pain,  Good  Work:. 
Prices.  lOj 

work.  ^ Free  extraction 
Saturday  between  12 
^^*^*^‘*‘*'®**®^  and  2 p.  m. 

*‘I  had  10  teeth  pulled  without  the  least  paih 
whatever.”— Joe  Simpson,  Sheboygan,  Mich. 

Office  Hours,  8 a.  m.  to  8 p.  m. ; Sundays,  10  to 
12.  Office  Opposite  Masonic  lemple.  Room  27. 


NEWS”  WANT  ADS  BRING  RESULTS. 


TBE  EVERYDAY  COOK-BOOK. 


19& 


DESSERT  AND  TEA  DISHES. 


BOILKD  OUSTABD. 

One  quart  milk,  eight  eggs,  one-half  pound  of  sugar; 
beat  to  a good  froth  the  eggs  and  sugar.  Put  the 
milk  in  a tin  pail  and  set  it  in  boiling  water;  pour  in  the 
eggs  and  sugar  and  stir  it  until  it  thickens. 

LEMON  CUSTARD. 

Beat  the  yolks  of  eight  eggs  till  they  are  white,  add 
pint  of  boiling  water,  the  rinds  of  two  lemons  grated, 
and  the  juice  sweetened  to  taste;  stir  this  on  the  fire 
till  it  thickens,  then  add.  a large  glass  of  rich  wine,  and 
one-half  glass  brandy;  give  the  whole  a good  boil  and 
put  in  glasses.  To  be  eaten  cold.  Or,  put  the  thin 
yellow  rind  of  two  lemons,  with  the  juice  of  three,  and 
sugar  to  taste,  into  one  pint  of  warm  water.  As  lemons 
vary  in  size  and  juiciness,  the  exact  quantity  of  sugar 
cannot  be  given.  Ordinary  lemons  require  three  gills. 
It  will  be  safe  to  begin  with  that  quantity,  more  may 
be  added  if  required.  Beat  the  whites  to  a stiff  froth, 
then  the  yolks;  then  beat  both  together,  pour  in  gradu- 
ally while  beating  the  other  ingredients;  put  all  in  a 
pail,  set  in  a pot  of  boiling  water,  and  stir  until  thick 
as  boiled  custard;  strain  it  in  a deep  dish;  when  cool 
place  on  ice.  Serve  in  glasses. 

SNOW  CUSTARD. 

Half  a package  of  Cox’s  gelatine,  three  eggs,  two 
cups  of  sugar,  juice  of  one  lemon;  soak  the  gelatine 


2Wf  TEE  EVESIEAY  COOK-BOOK. 

one  hour  in  a teacup  of  cold  water,  add  one  pint  of 
boiling  water,  stir  until  thoroughly  dissolved,  add  two- 
thirds  of  the  sugar  and  the  lemon-juice;  beat  the  whites 
of  the  eggs  to  a stiff  froth,  and  when  the  gelatine  is 
quite  cold  whip  it  into  the  whites,  a spoonful  at  a time 
from  half  an  hour  to  an  hour.  Whip  steadily  and 
evenly,  and  when  all  is  stiff  pour  in  a mold, 
or  in  a dozen  egg  glasses  previously  wet  with  cold 
water,  and  set  in  a cold  place.  In  four  or  five 
hours  turn  into  a glass  dish.  Make  a custard  of  one 
and  a half  pints  milk,  yolks  of  eggs,  and  remainder  of 
the  sugar,  flavor  with  vanilla,  and  when  the  meringue  or 
snowballs  are  turned  out  of  the  mold,  pour  this  around 
the  base, 

TAPIOCA  PUDDING. 

Three  ounces  of  tapioca,  one  quart  of  milk,  two 
ounces  of  butter,  quarter  of  a pound  of  sugar,  four 
eggs,  flavoring  of  vanilla  or  bitter  almonds.  Wash  the 
tapioca,  and  let  it  stew  gently  in  the  milk  by  the  side  of 
the  stove  for  quarter  of  an  hour,  occasionally  stirring  it; 
then  let  it  cool;  mix  with  it  the  butter,  sugar  and  eggs, 
which  should  be  well  beaten,  and  flavor  with  either  of 
the  above  ingredients.  Butter  a pie-dish,  and  line  the 
edges  with  puff-paste,  put  in  the  pudding,  and  bake  in 
a moderate  oven  for  an  hour.  If  the  pudding  is  boiled, 
add  a little  more  tapioca,  and  boil  it  in  a buttered  basin 
one  and  a half  hours. 

BLANC-MANGE 

One  quarter  pound  of  sugar,  one  quart  of  milk,  one 
and  a half  ounces  of  isinglass,  the  rind  of  half  a lemon, 
four  laurel  leaves.  Put  all  the  ingredients  into  a lined 
saucepan,  and  boil  gently  until  the  isinglass  is  dissolved; 
taste  it  occasionally  to  ascertain  when  it  is  sufficiently 
flavored  with  the  laurel  leaves;  then  take  them  out  and 


THE  EmBlHAJ  COOR-BCOK.  201 

keep  stirring  the  mixture  over  the  fire  for  about  ten 
minutes.  Strain  it  through  a fine  sieve  into  a Jug,  and, 
when  nearly  cold,  pour  it  into  a well-oiled  mold,  omit- 
ting the  sediment  at  the  bottom.  Turn  it  out  carefully 
on  a dish,  and  garnish  with  preserves,  bright  jelly  or  a 
compote  of  fruit. 

IVORY  BLANC-MANGE. 

Soak  one  ounce  of  gelatine  for  ten  minutes  in  a little 
cold  milk  and  pour  over  the  gelatine,  and  stir  it  con- 
stantly until  it  is  all  dissolved;  it  may  be  placed  in  the 
dish  and  set  on  top  of  a boiling  teakettle  for  a few 
minutes;  remove  it  and  add  a small  cupful  of  sugar  and 
two  tablespoonfuls  of  sherry  wine.  Strain  into  molds. 

RICE  BLANC  MANGE. 

One-quarter  pound  of  ground  rice,  three  ounces  of 
loaf  sugar,  one  ounce  of  fresh  butter,  one  quart  of 
milk,  flavoring  of  lemon-peel,  essence  of  almonds  or 
vanilla,  or  laurel  leaves.  Mix  the  rice  to  a smooth 
batter  with  about  one-half  pint  of  milk,  and  the  re- 
mainder put  into  a saucepan,  with  the  sugar,  butter, 
and  whichever  of  the  above  flavorings  may  be  preferred; 
bring  the  milk  to  the  boiling  point,  quickly  stir  in  the 
rice,  and  let  it  boil  for  about  ten  minutes,  or  until  it 
comes  easily  away  from  the  saucepan,  keeping  it  well 
stirred  the  whole  time.  Grease  a mold  with  pure  salad 
oil;  pour  in  the  rice,  and  let  it  get  perfectly  set,  when 
it  should  turn  out  quite  easily;  garnish  it  with  Jam,  or 
pour  round  a compote  of  any  kind  of  fruit.  Just  before 
it  IS  sent  to  table.  This  blanc-mange  is  better  for  being 
made  the  day  before  it  is  wanted,  as  it  then  has  time  to 
become  Arm.  If  laurel  leaves  are  used  for  flavoring, 
steep  three  of  them  m the  milk,  and  take  them  out  be- 
fore the  rice  is  added;  about  eight  drops  of  essenefi  of 


80^  THE  EVERYDAY  COOK-BOOK. 

almonds,  or  from  twelve  to  sixteen  drops  of  essence  of 
vanilla,  would  be  required  to  flavor  the  above  propor- 
tion of  milk. 

APPLE  TRIFLE. 

Ten  good-sized  apples,  the  rind  of  one-half  lemon, 
six  ounces  of  pounded  sugar,  one-half  pint  of  milk, 
one-half  pint  of  cream,  two  eggs,  whipped  cream.  Peel, 
core,  and  cut  the  apples  into  thin  slices;  and  put  them 
into  a saucepan,  with  two  tablespoonfuls  of  water,  the 
sugar;  and  minced  lemon-rind.  Boil  all  together  until 
quite  tender,  and  pulp  the  apples  through  a sieve;  if 
they  should  not  be  quite  sweet  enough,  add  a little 
more  sugar,  and  put  them  at  the  bottom  of  the  dish  to 
form  a thick  layer.  Stir  together  the  milk,  cream  and 
eggs,  with  a little  sugar,  over  the  fire;  and  let  the  mix- 
ture thicken,  but  do  not  allow  it  to  I’each  the  boiling 
point.  Wheir  thick,  take  it  off  the  fire;  let  it  cool  a 
little,  then  pour  it  over  the  apples.  Whip  some  cream 
with  sugar,  lemon-peel,  etc.,  the  same  as  for  other 
trifles;  heap  it  high  over  the  custard,  and  the  dish  is 
ready  for  the  table.  It  may  be  garnished,  as  fancy 
dictates,  with  strips  of  bright  apple  Jelly,  slices  of 
citron,  etc. 

LEMON  TRIPLE. 

Juice  of  two  lemons  and  grated  peel  of  one,  one  pint 
cream,  well  sweetened  and  whipped  stiff,  one  cup  of 
sherry,  a little  nutmeg.  Let  sugar,  lemon-juice  and 
peel  lie  together  two  hours  before  you  add  wine  and 
nutmeg.  Strain  through  double  tarlatan,  and  whip 
gradually  into  the  frothed  cream.  Serve  very  soon, 
heaped  in  small  glasses.  Pass  cake  with  this,  as  well 
as  with  the  tea. 


TEE  EVERYDAY  COOK-BOOK, 


FLOATING  ISLAND. 

Take  a quart  of  rich  cream,  and  divide  it  in  half, 
rfweeten  one  pint  of  it  with  loaf  sugar,  and  stir  it  into 
suflScient  currant  jelly,  to  color  it  of  a fine  pink.  Put 
it  into  a glass  bowl,  and  place  in  the  center  a pile  of 
sliced  almond  sponge  cake,  or  lady  cake;  every  slice 
spread  thickly  with  raspberry  jam  or  marmalade,  and 
laid  evenly  one  on  another.  Have  ready  the  other  pint 
of  cream,  flavored  with  the  juice  of  two  lemons,  and 
beaten  to  a stiff  froth.  Heap  it  all  over  the  pile  of  cake 
so  as  entirely  to  cover  it.  Both  creams  must  be  made 
very  sweet. 

APPLE  SNOW 

Forms  a showy,  sweet  dish,  and  may  be  made  as  fol- 
lows: Ten  or  a dozen  apples  prepared  as  before,  flav- 
oring with  a lettle  lemon-juice;  when  reduced  to  a pulp 
let  them  stand  to  cool  for  a little  time,  meanwhile  beat 
up  the  whites  of  ten  or  a dozen  eggs  to  a froth,  and 
stir  into  the  apples,  as  also  some  sifted  sugar,  say  a tea- 
cupful; stir  till  the  mixture  begins  to  stiffen,  and  then 
heap  it  up  in  a glass  dish  or  serve  m custard  cups,  or- 
namented with  spots  of  red  currant  jelly. 

Thick  cream  should  at  table  be  ladled  out  to  the 
snow. 

TROPICAL  SNOW. 

Ten  sweet  oranges,  one  cocoanut,  pared  and  grated, 
two  glasses  sherry,  one  cup  powdered  sugar,  six  ban- 
anas. Peel  and  cut  the  oranges  small,  taking  out  the 
seeds.  Put  a layer  in  a glass  bowl  and  wet  with  wine, 
then  strew  with  sugar.  Next,  put  a layer  of  grated 
cocoanut,  slice  the  bananas  thin,  and  cover  the  cocoanut 
with  them.  When  the  dish  has  been  filled  in  this  order, 
heap  with  cocoanut.  Eat  soon  or  the  oranges  will 
toughen. 


204 


TEE  EVERYDAY  OOOK-BOOJS:. 


SWISS  CREAM. 

One  quarter  pound  of  macaroons  or  six  small  sponge- 
cakes, one  pint  ot  cream,  five  ounces  of  lump  sugar, 
two  tablespoonfuls  of  arrowroot,  the  rind  of  one  lemon, 
the  juice  of  half  lemon,  three  tablespoonfuls  of  milk. 
Lay  the  macaroons  or  sponge-cakes  in  a glass  dish,  and 
pour  over  them  as  much  sherry  as  will  cover  them,  or 
sufficient  to  cover  them  well.  Put  the  cream  into  a 
lined  saucepan,  with  the  sugar  and  lemon-rind,  and  let 
it  remain  by  the  side  of  the  fire  until  the  cream  is  well- 
flavored,  when  take  out  the  lemond-rind.  Mix  the 
arrowroot  smoothly  with  the  cold  milk;  add  this  to  the 
cream,  and  let  it  boil  gently  for  about  three  minutes, 
keeping  it  well  stirred.  Take  it  off  the  fire,  stir  till 
nearly  cold,  when  add  the  lemon-juice,  and  pour  the 
whole  over  the  cakes.  Garnish  the  cream  with  strips  of 
angelica,  or  candied  citron  cut  thin,  or  bright-colored 
jelly  or  preserve.  This  cream  is  exceedingly  delicious, 
flavored  with  vanilla  instead  of  lemon;  when  this  flavor- 
ing is  used,  the  cherry  may  be  omitted,  and  the  mixture 
poured  over  the  dry  cakes. 

ITALIAN  CREAM. 

Take  one  quart  of  cream,  one  pint  of  milk  sweetened 
very  sweet,  and  highly  seasoned  with  sherry  wine  and 
vanilla;  beat  it  with  a Avhip  dasher,  and  remove  the  froth 
as  it  rises,  until  it  is  all  converted  into  froth.  Have 
ready  one  box  of  Cox’s  sparkling  gelatine  dissolved  in 
a little  warm  water;  set  the  froth  into  a tub  of  ice;  pour 
the  gelatine  into  it,  and  stir  constantly  until  it  thickens, 
then  pour  into  molds,  and  set  in  a cool  place. 

WHIPPED  CREAM. 

Mix  one  pint  of  cream  with  nine  tablespoons  of  fine 
sugar  undone  gill  of  wine  in  a large  bowl;  whiptbesewith 


TEE  EVERYDAY  COOK-BOOK 


205 


the  cream  dasher,  and  as  the  froth  rises,  skim  into  the 
dish  in  which  it  is  to  be  served.  Fill  the  dish  full  to 
the  top,  and  ornament  with  kisses  or  macaroons. 

TIPSY  CAKE. 

One  molded  sponge  or  Savoy  cake,  sufficient  sweet 
wine  or  sherry  to  soak  it,  six  tablespoonfuls  of  brandy, 
two  ounces  of  sweet  almonds,  one  pint  of  rich  custard. 
Procure  a cake  that  is  three  or  four  days  old — either 
sponge.  Savoy,  or  rice  answering  for  the  purpose  of  a 
tipsy  cake.  Cut  the  bottom  of  the  cake  level,  to  make 
it  stand  firm  in  the  dish;  make  a small  hole  in  the 
center,  and  pour  in  and  over  the  cake  sufficient  sweet 
wine  or  sherry,  mixed  with  the  above  proportion  of 
brandy,  to  soak  it  nicely.  When  the  cake  is  well  soaked, 
blanch  and  cut  the  almonds  into  strips,  stick  them  ali. 
over  the  cake,  and  pour  round  it  a good  custard,  allow- 
ing eight  eggs  instead  of  five  to  the  pint  of  milk.  The 
cakes  are  sometimes  crumbled  and  soaked,  and  a 
whipped  cream  heaped  over  them,  the  same  as  for 
trifles. 

SNOW  PYRAMIDS. 

Beat  to  a stiff  foam  the  whites  of  half  a dozen  eggs, 
add  a small  teacupful  of  currant  jelly,  and  whip  all  to- 
gether again.  Fill  as  many  saucers  as  you  have  guests 
half  full  of  cream,  dropping  in  the  centre  of  each  saucer 
a tablespoonful  of  the  beaten  eggs  and  jelly  in  the  shape 
of  a pyramid. 

AN  EXCELLENT  DESSERT. 

One  can  or  twelve  large  peaches,  two  coffeecups  of 
sugar,  one  pint  of  water,  and  the  whites  of  three  eggs; 
break  the  peaches  with  and  stir  all  the  ingredients  to- 
gether;  freeze  the  whole  into  form;  beat  me  eggs  to 

&otb. 


206 


THE  EVEBTDAY  COOK-BOOK. 


APPLE  FKITTEKS. 

One  teacup  of  sweet  milk,  one  tablespoon  sweet  light 
dough  dissolved  in  milk,  three  eggs  beaten  separately, 
one  teaspoon  of  salt,  one  and  a half  teacups  of  flour,' 
one  tablespoon  of  sugar,  and  the  grated  peel  of  a 
lemon,  peeled  apples  sliced  without  the  core;  drop  into 
hot  lard  with  a piece  of  apple  in  each  one;  sprinkle 
with  powdered  or  spiced  sugar.  Let  them  stand  after 
making  and  they  will  be  lighter.  Good. 

JELLY  CAKE  FRITTERS. 

Some  stale  sponge,  ov plain  cup  cake,  cut  into  rounds 
with  a cake  cutter.  Hot  lard,  strawberry  or  other  jam, 
or  jelly,  a little  boiling  milk.  Cut  the  cake  carefully 
and  fry  a nice  brown.  Dip  each  slice  for  a second  in  a 
bowl  of  boiling  milk,  draining  this  off  on  the  side  of  the 
vessel;  lay  on  a hot  dish  and  spread  thickly  with  straw- 
berry jam,  peach  jelly  or  other  delicate  conserve.  Pile 
them  neatly  and  send  around  hot,  with  cream  to  pour 
over  them.  This  is  a nice  way  of  using  up  stale  cake, 
and  if  rightly  prepared,  the  dessert  is  almost  equal  to 
Neapolitan  pudding. 

PEACH  MERINGUE. 

Pare  and  quarter  (removing  stones)  a quart  of  sound, 
ripe  peaches,  place  them  all  in  a dish  that  it  will  not 
injure  to  set  in  the  oven  and  yet  suitable  to  place  on  the 
table.  Sprinkle  the  peaches  with  sugar,  and  cover  them 
well  with  the  beaten  whites  of  three  eggs.  Stand  the 
dish  in  the  oven  untd  the  eggs  have  becom  ea  delicate 
brown,  then  remove  and,  when  cool  enough,  set  on  a 
dish  of  ice,  in  a very  cool  place.  Take  the  yolks  of  the 
eggs,  add  to  them  a pint  of  milk,  sweeten  and  flavor  and 
boil  same  in  a custard  kettle,  being  careful  to  keep  the 


TEE  EVEBYDAT  COOK-BOOK. 


207 


eggs  from  curdling.  When  cool,  pour  into  a glass 
pitcher  and  serve  with  the  meringue  when  ready  to  use. 

CHAELOTTE  RUSSE. 

Whip  one  quart  rich  cream  to  a stiff  froth,  and  drain 
well  on  a nice  sieve.  To  one  scant  pint  of  milk  add  six 
eggs  beaten  very  light,  make  very  sweet;  flavor  high 
with  vanilla.  Cook  over  hot  water  till  it  is  a thick 
custard;  Soak  one  full  ounce  Cox’s  gelatine  in  a very 
little  water,  and  warm  over  hot  water.  When  the 
custard  is  very  cold,  beat  in  lightly  the  gelatine  and  the 
whipped  cream.  Lrine  the  bottom  of  your  mold  with 
buttered  paper,  the  sides  with  sponge  cake  or  lady- 
fingers  fastened  together  with  the  white  of  an  egg.  Fill 
with  cream,  put  in  a cold  place  or  in  summer  on  ice. 
To  turn  out,  dip  the  mold  for  a moment  in  hot  water. 
In  draining  the  whipped  cream,  all  that  drips  through 
can  be  re  whipped. 

JELLIED  GRAPES. 

A very  delicate  dish  is  made  of  one-third  of  a cup  of 
rice,  two  cups  of  grapes,  half  a cup  of  water,  and  two 
spoons  of  sugar.  Sprinkle  the  rice  and  sugar  among  the 
grapes,  while  placing  them  in  a deep  dish;  pour  on  the 
water,  cover  close,  and  simmer  two  hours  slowly  in  the 
oven.  Serve  warm  as  sauce,  or  cold  as  pudding.  If 
served  warm  as  pudding,  increase  slightly  the  proportion 
of  rice  and  sugar. 

JELLY  AND  CUSTARD. 

One-half  package  of  gelatine,  soaked  in  water  enough 
to  cover  it;  when  soaked  pour  one  pint  of  boiling  water 
over  it,  then  add  one  cup  of  white  sugar  and  squeeze  the 
juice  of  one  large  lemon  into  it  and  a little  essence  of 
lemon  and  set  aside  to  stiffen. 

Make  a custard  with  a pint  and  a half  of  milk,  the 


206 


TEE  EVERYDAY  COOK-BOOK. 


yolks  of  three  eggs,  one  tablespoon  of  com  starch;  sugar 
and  flavoring.  When  the  jelly  is  set,  and  just  before 
using,  cut  the  jelly  into  squares,  laying  them  in  layers 
at  intervals  in  the  bottom  of  the  dish,  then  pour  in  some 
of  the  cold  custard,  another  layer  of  jelly,  and  so  on 
until  the  custard  is  all  used.  Beat  the  whites  of  the 
eggs  to  a stiff  froth,  adding  two  or  three  tablespoonfuls 
of  confectioner’s  sugar,  and  lay  on  in  pieces  with  jelly 
between.  All  these  recipes  are  better  when  prepared  in 
a tin  set  inside  of  another  in  which  there  is  a little  water 
to  prevent  danger  of  burning. 

LEMON  TOAST. 

Take  the  yolks  of  six  eggs,  beat  them  well  and  add 
three  cups  of  sweet  milk;  take  baker’s  bread  not  too 
stale  and  cut  into  slices;  dip  them  into  the  milk  and  lay  the 
slices  into  a spider,  with  sufficient  melted  butter,  hot,  to 
fry  a nice  delicate  brown;  take  the  whites  of  six  eggs, 
and  beat  them  to  a froth,  adding  a large  cup  of  white 
sugar;  add  the  juice  of  two  lemons;  heating  well,  and 
adding  two  cups  boiling  water.  Serve  over  the  toast  as 
a sauce,  and  you  will  find  it  a very  delicious  dish. 

piSH  OF  SNOWWHIPPED  CREAM. 

To  the  whites  of  three  eggs  beaten  to  a froth,  add  a 
pint  of  cream  and  four  tablespoonfuls  of  sweet  wine, 
with  three  of  fine  white  sugar  and  a tablespoonful  of 
extrilhtof  lemon  or  vanilla;  whip  it  to  a froth  and  serve 
in  a glass  dish;  serve  jelly  or  jam  with  it.  Or  lay  lady- 
fingers  or  sliced  sponge  cake  in  a glass  dish,  put  spoon- 
fuls of  jelly  or  jam  over,  and  heap  the  snow  upon  it. 

OMELET  FOR  DESSERT. 

Beat  six  eggs  light,  add  a teaspoonful  of  salt,  and 
four  or  five  macaroons  pounded  fine,  beat  them  well 
together;  fry  as  usual;  strew  plentifully  with  sugar  and 

serve. 


THE  EVERYDAY  COOK-BOOK. 


209 


JELLY  FRITTERS. 

Make  a batter  of  two  eggs,  a pint  of  milk,  and  a 
pint  bowl  of  wheat  flour  or  more,  beat  it  light ; put  a 
tablespoonful  lard  or  beef  fat  in  a frying  or  omelet-pan, 
add  a salt-spoonful  of  salt,  make  it  boiling  hot,  put  in 
the  batter  by  the  large  spoonful,  not  too  close  ; when 
one  side  is  a delicate  brown,  turn  the  other ; when 
done,  take  them  on  to  a dish  with  a doily  over  it;  put 
a dessert-spoonful  of  firm  jelly  on  each,  and  serve. 


THE  E VEB TDA  Y COOK-BOOK. 


PRESERVES,  CANNED  FRUITS, 
JELLY. 


TO  PRESERVE  PLUMS  WITHOUT  THE 
SKINS. 

Pour  boiling  water  over  large  egg  or  magnum  bonum 
plums,  cover  them  until  it  is  cold,  then  pull  off  the 
skir  s.  Make  a syrup  of  a pound  of  sugar  and  a tea- 
cup of  water  for  each  pound  of  fruit,  make  it  boiling 
hot,  and  pour  it  over ; let  them  remain  for  a day  or 
two,  then  drain  it  off  and  boil  again ; skim  it  clear  and 
pour  it  hot  over  plums ; let  them  remain  until  the  next 
day,  then  put  them  over  the  fire  in  the  syrup,  boil  them 
very  gently  until  clear  ; take  them  from  the  syrup  with 
a sHmmer  into  the  pots  or  jars ; boil  the  syrup  until 
rich  and  thick,  take  off  any  scum  which  may  rise,  then 
let  it  cool  and  settle,  and  pour  it  over  the  plums.  If 
brown  sugar  is  used,  which  is  quite  as  good,  except  for 
greengages,  clarify  it  as  directed. 

TO  PRESERVE  PURPLE  PLUMS. 

Make  a syrup  of  clean  brown  sugar,  clarify  it  as 
directed  in  these  receipes ; when  perfecly  clear  and 
boiling  hot,  pour  it  over  the  plums,  having  picked  out 
all  unsound  ones,  and  stems  ; let  them  remain  in  the 
syrup  two  days,  then  drain  it  off  ; make  it  boiling  hot, 
skim  it  and  pour  it  over  again;  let  them  lemain  another 
day  or  two,  then  put  them  m a preserving-kettle  over 
the  fire  and  simmer  gently  until  the  syrup  is  reduced 
and  thick  or  rich.  One  pound  of  sugar  for  each  pound 


THE  EVEEYDAY  COOK-BOOK, 


211 


of  plums.  Small  damsons  are  very  fine,  preserved  as 
cherries  or  any  other  ripe  fruit ; clarify  the  syrup  and 
when  boiling  hot  put  in  the  plums,  let  them  boil  very 
gently  until  they  are  cooked  and  the  syrup  rich.  Put 
them  in  pots  or  jars  ; the  next  day  secure  as  directed. 

PRESERVED  GREENGAGES  IN  SYRUP. 

To  every  pound  of  fruit  allow  one  pound  of  loaf- 
sugar,  one-quarter  pint  of  water.  Boil  the  sugar  and 
water  together  for  about  ten  minutes;  divide  the  green- 
gages, take  out  the  stones,  put  the  fruit  into  the  syrup, 
and  let  it  simmer  gently  until  nearly  tender.  Take  it 
off  the  fire,  put  it  into  a large  pan,  and,  the  next  day, 
boil  it  up  again  for  aboul  ten  minutes  with  the  kernels 
from  the  stones,  which  should  be  blanched.  Put  the 
fruit  carefully  into  jars,  pour  it  over  the  syrup,  and 
when  cold,  cover  down,  so  that  the  air  is  quite  excluded. 
Let  the  syrup  be  well  skimmed  both  the  first  and  second 
day  of  boiling,  otherwise  it  will  not  be  clear. 

TO  PRESERVE  CHERRIES  IN  SYRUP. 

Four  pounds  of  cherries,  three  pounds  of  sugar,  one 
pint  of  white-currant  juice.  Let  the  cherries  be  as  clear 
and  as  transparent  as  possible,  and  perfectly  ripe;  pick 
off  the  stalks,  and  remove  the  stones,  damaging  the 
fruit  as  little  as  you  can.  ' Make  a syrup  with  the  above 
proportions  of  sugar,  mix  the  cherries  with  it,  and  boil 
them  for  about  fifteen  minutes,  carefully  skimming 
them;  turn  them  gently  into  a pan,  and  let  them  remain 
till  the  next  day;  then  drain  the  cherries  on  a sieve,  and 
put  the  syrup  and  white-currant  juice  into  the  preserv- 
ing-pan again.  Boil  these  together  until  the  syrup  is 
somewhat  reduced  and  rather  thick;  then  put  in  the 
cherries,  and  let  them  boil  for  about  five  minutes;  take 


212 


TEE  EVERYDAY  COOK-BOOK. 


them  oflf  the  fire,  skim  the  syrup,  put  the  cherries  into 
small  pots  or  wide-mouthed  bottles;  pour  the  syrup  over, 
and  when  quite  cold,  tie  them  down  carefully,  so  that 
the  air  is  quite  excluded. 

PRESERVED  PEARS. 

To  six  pounds  of  pears,  four  pounds  of  sugar,  two 
coffee-cups  of  water,  the  juice  of  two  lemons,  and  the 
rind  of  one,  a handful  of  whole  ginger;  boil  all  together 
for  twenty  minutes,  then  put  in  your  pears  and  boil  till 
soft,  say  about  a quarter  of  an  hour;  take  them  out  and 
boil  your  syrup  a little  longer;  then  put  back  your  fruit 
and  give  it  a boil;  bottle  while  hot;  add  a little  cochi- 
neal to  give  them  a nice  color. 

TO  PRESERVE  PEACHES. 

Peaches  for  preserving  may  be  ripe  but  not  soft;  cut 
them  in  halves,  take  out  the  stones,  and  pare  them 
neatly;  take  as  many  pounds  of  white  sugar  as  of  fruit, 
put  to  each  pound  of  sugar  a teacup  of  watei',  stir  it 
until  it  is  dissolved,  set  it  over  a moderate  fire,  when  it 
is  boiling  hot,  put  in  the  peaches,  let  them  boil  gently 
until  a pure  clear,  uniform  color;  turn  those  at  the  bot- 
tom to  the  top  carefully  with  a skimmer  several  times; 
do  not  hurry  them ; when  they  are  clear,  take  each  half 
up  with  a spoon,  and  spread  the  halves  on  flat  dishes  to 
become  cold;  w'hen  all  are  done,  let  the  syrup  boil  until 
it  is‘ quite  thick,  pour  it  into  a large  pitcher,  and  let  it 
set  to  cool  and  settle.  When  the  peaches  are  cold,  put- 
them  carefully  into  jars,  and  pour  the  syrup  over  them, 
leaving  any  sediment  which  has  settled  at  the  bottom, 
or  strain  the  syrup.  Some  of  the  kernels  from  the  peach 
stones  may  be  put  in  with  the  peaches  while  boiling. 
Let  them  remain  open  one  night,  then  cover. 


TEE  EVEE7DA7  COOKBOOK. 


m 

TO  PRESERVE  CITEOH, 

Pare  the  citrons  and  cut  them  into  slices  about  an 
inch  and  a half  thick,  then  into  strips  about  the  same 
thickness,  leaving  them  the  full  length  of  the  fruit; 
take  out  all  the  seeds  with  a small  knife,  then  weigh, 
and  to  each  pound  of  citron  put  a pound  of  white  sugar, 
make  a syrup;  to  ten  pounds  put  a pint  of  water,  and 
simmer  gently  for  twenty  minutes;  then  put  in  the  cit- 
ron and  boil  for  one  hour,  or  until  tender;  before  taking 
off  the  fire  put  in  two  lemons;  sliced  thin,  seeds  taken 
out,  and  two  ounces  of  root  ginger;  do  not  let  them  boil 
long  after  the  lemon  and  ginger  are  put  in;  do  not  stir 
them  while  boiling.  The  above  is  very  fine  if  carefully 
attended  to. 

CRAB-APPLES. 

To  each  pound  of  fruit  allow  half  a pound  of  sugar, 
and  a pint  of  water  to  three  pounds  of  sugar.  When 
the  syrup  is  boiling  hot,  drop  in  the  apples.  They  will 
cook  very  quickly.  When  done,  fill  a jar  with  the 
fruit,  and  fill  it  up  with  syrup. 

PINEAPPLE. 

Pare  the  fruit  and  be  sure  you  take  out  all  the  eyes 
and  discolored  parts.  Cut  in  slices,  and  cut  the  slices 
in  small  bits,  taking  out  the  core.  Weigh  the  fruit, 
and  put  in  a pan  with  half  as  many  pounds  of  sugar  as 
of  fruit.  Let  it  stand  over  night.  In  the  morning  put 
it  over  the  fire  and  let  it  boil  rapidly  for  a minute  only, 
as  cooking  long  discolors  it.  Put  it  in  the  jars  as 
directed. 

GOOSEBERRY  JAM.  ^ 

To  every  eight  pounds  of  red,  rough,  ripe  gooseber- 
ries, allow  one  quart  of  red-currant  juice,  five  pounds  of 
{oaf  sugar.  Have  the  fruit  gathered  in  dry  weather,. 


214  TRK  EVERYDAY  COOK-BOOK. 

and  cut  off  the  tops  and  tails.  Prepare  one  quart  of 
red-currant  juice,  the  same  as  for  red-currant  jelly;  put 
it  into  a r)reservifig  pan  with  the  sugar,  and  keep  stiring 
until  the  latter  is  dissolved.  Keep  it  boiling  for  about 
five  minutes;  skim  well;  then  put  in  the  gooseberries, 
and  let  them  boil  from  one-half  to  three-quarters  of  an 
hour;  then  turn  the  whole  into  an  earthen  pan,  and  let 
it  remain  for  two  days.  Boil  the  jam  up  again  until  it 
looks  clear;  put  it  into  pots,  and  when  cold  cover  with 
oiled  paper,  and  over  the  jars  put  tissue  paper,  brushed 
over  on  both  sides  with  the  white  of  an  egg,  and  store 
away  in  a dry  place.  ' Care  must  be  taken  in  making 
this  to  keep  the  jam  well  stirred  and  skimmed,  to  pre- 
vent it  burning  at  the  bottom  of  the  pan,  and  to  have  it 
very  clear.  ^ 

BLACK-CURRANT  JAM. 

Pick  the  currants  carefully,  and  take  equal  quantities 
of  fruit  and  sugar.  Pounded  loaf-sugar  is  best.  Dis- 
solve it  over  or  mix  it  with  the  currants.  Put  in  a very 
little  water  or  red-currant  juice,  boil  and  skim  for 
twenty-five  minutes. 

RASPBERRY  JAM. 

To  five  or  six  pounds  of  fine  red-raspberries  (not  too 
ripe)  add  an  equal  quantity  of  the  finest  quality  of  white 
sugar.  Mash  the  whole  well  in  a preserving-kettle;  add 
about  one  quart  of  currant  juice  (a  little  less  will  do), 
and  boil  gently  until  it  jellies  upon  a cold  plate;  then 
put  into  small  jars;  cover  with  brandied  paper  and  tie  ai 
thick  white  paper  over  them.  Keep  in  a dark,  dryJ 
and  cool  place.  ^ 

QUINCE  PRESERVES.  ^ 

Pare,  core,  and  quarter  your  frust,  then  weigh  it  and 

allow  an  equal  quantity  of  white  sugar.  Take  the 


TEE  EVERYDAY  COOKBOOK 


215 


parings  and  cores  and  put  in  a preserving-kettle;  cover 
them  with  water  and  boil  for  half  an  hour;  then  strain 
through  a hair  sieve  and  put  the  juice  back  into  the 
kettle  and  boil  the  quinces  in  it  a little  at  a' time  until 
they  are  tender;  lift  out  as  they  are  done  with  a drainer 
and ’lay  on  a dish;  if  the  liquid  seems  scarce  add  mors 
water.  When  all  are  done  throw  in  the  sugar  and 
allow  it  to  boil  ten  minutes  before  putting  in  tha 
quinces,  let  them  boil  until  they  change  color,  say  om 
hour  and  a quarter,  on  a slow  fire;  while  they  are  boik 
ing  occasionally  slip  a silver  spoon  under  them  to  seis 
that  they  do  not  burn,  but  on  no  account  stir  them 
Have  two  fresh  lemons  cut  in  thin  slices,  and  when 
fruit  is  being  put  up  in  jars  lay  a slice  or  two  in  each. 

EED-CURRANT  JELLY. 

Eed-currants;  to  every  pint  of  juice  allow  three  quLL*  > 
ter  pounds  of  loaf-sugar.  Have  the  fruit  gathered  in 
fine  weather;  pick  it  from  the  stalks,  put  it  into  a jar^ 
and  place  this  jar  in  a saucepan  of  boiling  water  ovev 
the  fire,  and  let  it  simmer  gently  until  the  juice  is  v/eli 
drawn  from  the  currants;  then  strain  them  through  ix 
jelly  bag  of  fine  cloth,  and,  if  the  jelly  is  washed  ver}; 
clear,  do  not  squeeze  them  too  much^  as  the  skin  and 
pulp  from  the  fruit  will  be  pressed  through  with  ihit 
juice,  and  so  make  the  jelly  muddy.  Measure  the  juice, 
and  to  each  pint  allow  three  quarter  pounds  of  loaf  sugar; 
put  these  into  a preserving  pan,  set  it  over  the  fire,  and 
keep  stirring  the  jelly  until  it  is  done,  carefully  re- 
moving every  particle  of  scum  as  it  rises,  using  a 
wooden  or  silver  spoon  for  the  purpose,  as  metal  or 
iron  ones  would  spoil  the  color  of  the  jelly.  When  it 
has  boiled  from  twenty  minutes  to  a half  hour,  put  a 
little  of  the  jelly  on  a plate,  and  if  firm,  when  cool  it  is 
done.  Take  it  off  the  fire,  pour  it  into  small  gallipots, 
cover  each  of  the  pots  with  an  oiled  paper,  and  then 


816 


THE  EVERYDAY  COOKBOOK, 


with  a piece  of  tissue  paper  brushed  over  on  both  sides 
with  the  white  of  an  egg.  Label  the  pots,  adding  the 
year  when  the  jelly  was  made,  and  store  it  away  in  a 
dry  place.  A jam  may  be  made  with  the  currants,  if 
they  are  not  squeezed  too  dry,  by  adding  a few  fresh 
raspberries,  and  boiling  all  together  with  sufficient  sugar 
to  sweeten  it  nicely.  As  this  preserve  is  not  worth 
storing  away,  but  is  only  for  immediate  eating,  a smaller 
proportion  of  sugar  than  usual  will  be  found  enough; 
it  answers  very  well  for  children’s  puddings,  or  for  a 
nursery  preserve. 

APPLE  JELLY. 

Apples,  water;  to  evey  pint  of  syrup  allow  three- 
quarters  of  a pound  of  loaf  sugar.  Pare  and  cut  the 
apples  into  pieces,  remove  the  cores,  and  put  them 
in  a preserving-pan  with  sufficient  cold  water  to  cover 
them.  Let  them  boil  for  an  hour;  then  drain  the  syrup 
from  them  through  a hair  sieve  or  jelly-bag,  and  meas- 
ure the  juice;  to  every  pint  allow  three-quarters  of  a 
pound  of  loaf  sugar,  and  boil  these  together  for  three- 
quarters  of  an  hour,  removing  every  particle  of  scum 
as  it  rises,  and  keeping  the  jelly  well  stirred  that  it  may 
not  burn.  A little  lemon-rind  may  be  boiled  with  the 
apples,  and  a small  quantity  of  strained  lemon-juice  may 
be  put  in  the  jelly,  just  before  it  is  done,  when  the  fla- 
vor is  liked.  This  jelly  may  be  ornamented  with  pre- 
served greengages,  or  any  other  preserved  fruit,  and 
will  turn  out  very  prettily  for  desert.  It  should  be 
stored  away  in  small  pots. 

BLACK  CURRANT  JELLY. 

Pick  each  currant  individually,  and  heat  the  lot  in  a 
jar  set  in  boiling  water,  squeeze  as  before,  and  allow  a 
pint  of  juice  to  a pound  of  sugar;  a little  water  may 
be  added  if  thought  proper,  or  a little  red-currant  juice. 


TEE  EVEBTDAl  COOK  BOOS 


217 


Boil  for  half  an  hour,  carefully  removing  the  skim- 
mings.  Another  way:  Clarify  the  sugar,  and  add  the 
fruit  to  it  whole,  boil  for  twenty  minutes,  and  strain, 
then  boil  a few  minutes  additional.  Pot  it  and  paper 
it  when  cool.  The  refuse  berries  may  be  kept  as  black- 
currant jam,  for  tarts,  dumplings,  etc. 

GRAB  APPLE  JELLY. 

Wash  the  fruit  clean,  put  in  a kettle,  cover  with 
water,  and  boil  until  thoroughly  cooked.  Then  pour  it 
into  a sieve,  and  let  it  drain.  Do  not  press  it  through. 
For  each  pint  of  this  liquor  allow  one  pound  of  sugar. 
Boil  from  twenty  minutes  to  half  an  hour. 

OTHER  JELLIES. 

Jellies  can  be  made  from  quinces,  peaches  and  apples 
by  following  the  directions  for  crab-apple  jelly. 

WINE  JELLY. 

One  box  of  Cox’s  gelatine,  dissolved  in  one  pint  of 
cold  water,  one  pint  of  wine,  one  quart  of  boiling 
water,  one  quart  of  granulated  sugar,  and  three  lemons. 

CALVES’  FEET  JELLY 

Should  be  made  at  any  rate  the  day  before  it  is  required. 
It  is  a simple  affair  to  prepare  it.  Procure  a couple  of 
feet  and  put  them  on  the  fire  in  three  quarts  of  water; 
let  them  boil  for  five  hours,  during  which  keep  skim- 
ming. Pass  the  liquor  through  a hair  sieve  into  a 
basin,  and  let  it  firm,  after  which  remove  all  the  oil  and 
fat.  Next  take  a teacupful  of  water,  two  wineglass- 
fuls of  sherry,  the  juice  of  half  a dozen  lemons  and 
the  rmd  of  one,  the  whites  and  shells  of  five  eggs,  half 
a pound  of  fine  white  sugar,  and  whisk  the  whole  till 


S18 


TEE  EVEETDAY  COOKBOOK. 


the  sugar  be  melted,  then  add  the  jelly,  place  thc^whole 
on  the  fire  in  an  enameled  stewpan,  and  keep  actively 
stirring  till  the  composition  comes  to  the  boil;  pass  it 
twice  through  a jelly-bag,  and  then  place  in  the  molds. 

OBANGE  MARMALADE. 

Allow  pound  for  pound.  Pare  half  the  oranges  and 
cut  the  rind  into  shreds.  Boil  in  three  waters  until 
tender,  and  set  aside.  Grate  the  rind  of  the  remaining 
oranges;  take  off  and  throw  away  every  bit  of  the  thick 
white  inner  skin;  quarter  all  the  oranges  and  take  out 
the  seeds.  Chop  or  cut  them  into  small  pieces;  drain 
all  the  juice  that  will  come  away,  without  pressing  them, 
over  the  sugar;  heat  this,  stirring  until  the  sugar  is  dis- 
solved, adding  a very  little  water,  unless  the  oranges  are 
very  juicy.  Boil  and  skim  five  or  six  minutes;  put  in 
the  boiled  slmeds,  and  cook  ten  minutes;  then  the 
chopped  fruit  and  grated  peel,  and  boil  twenty  minutes 
longer.  When  cold,  put  into  small  jars,  tied  up  Avith 
bladder  or  with  paper  next  the  fruit,  cloths  dipped  in 
Avax  OA'er  all.  A nicer  Avay  still  is  to  put  away  in 
tumblers  Avith  self-adjusting  metal  tops.  Press  brandied 
tissue  paper  down  closely  to  the  fruit. 

LEMON  MARMALADE 

Is  made  as  you  would  prepare  orange — allowing  a 
pound  and  a quarter  of  sugar  to  a pound  of  the  fruit, 
and  using  but  half  the  grated  peel. 

QUINCE  MARMALADE. 

Gather  the  fruit  Avhen  fully  ripe;  pare,  quarter  and 
core  it;  boil  the  skins  with  as  many  teacupfuls  of  Avater 
as  you  have  pounds  of  quinces;  Avhen  they  are  soft, 
mash  them,  and  strain  the  Avater  from  them,  and  put  it 


THE  EVERYDAY  COOKBOOK 


2T9 


to  vie  quinces;  boil  them  until  they  are  soft  enough  to 
mabii  them  fine;  rub  them  through  a sieve;  put  to  the 
pulp  as  many  pounds  of  sugar;  stir  them  together,  and 
set  thorn  over  a gentle  fire,  until  it  will  fall  from  a 
spoon,  like  jell}^;  or  try  some  in  a saucer.  If  it  j ernes 
when  colvi,  it  is  enough. 

Put  it  in  pots  or  tumblers,  and  when  cold,  secure  as 
directed  foi  jelly. 

PEACH  MARMALADE. 

Peel  ripe  peaches,  stone  them,  and  cut  them  small; 
weigh  three  quarters  of  a pound  of  sugar  for  each  pound 
of  cut  fruit,  and  a teacup  of  water  for  each  pound  of 
sugar;  set  it  over  the  fire,  when  it  boils,  skim  it  clear, 
then  put  fS^he  peaches,  let  theni  boil  quite  fast;  mash 
them  fine,  and  let  them  boil  until  the  w^hole  is  a jellied 
mass,  then  put  it  in  small  Jars  or  tumblers;  when  cold, 
secure  it  as  directed  for  Jellies.  Half  a pound  of  sugar 
for  a pound  of  fruit  will  make  ni(3e  marmalade. 

APPLE  BUTTER. 

Boil  one  barrel  of  new  cider  down  half,  peel  and  core 
three  bushels  of  good  cooking  apples;  when  the  cider 
has  boiled  half  the  quantity,  add  the  apples,  and  when 
soft,  stir  constantly  from  eight  to  ten  hours.  If  done 
it  will  adhere  to  an  inverted  plate.  Put  away  in  stone 
jars  (not  earthen  ware),  covering  first  with  writing- 
paper  cut  to  fit  the  jar,  and  press  closely  upon  the 
apple  butter;  cover  the  whole  with  thick  brown  paper 
snugly  tied  down, 

LEMON  BUTTER. 

Beat  six  eggs,  one-fourth  pound  butter,  one  pound 
sugar,  the  rind  and  juice  of  three  lemons;  mix  together 


S30  THE  EVEBT  DAT  GOGK-BOOK. 

and  set  in  a pan  of  hot  water  to  cook.  Very  nice  for 
tarts,  or  to  eat  with  bread. 

PEACH  BUTTER. 

Take  pound  for  pound  of  peaches  and  sugar;  cook 
peaches  alone  until  they  become  soft,  then  put  in  one- 
half  the  sugar,  and  stir  for  one-half  hour;  then  the  re- 
mainder of  the  sugar  and  stir  an  hour  and  a half. 
Season  with  cloves  and  cinnamon. 

• APPLE  GINGER. 

(a  dessert  dish). 

Two  pounds  of  any  kind  of  hard  apples,  two  pounds 
of  loaf  sugar,  one  and  one-half  pints  of  water,  one  ounce 
of  tincture  of  ginger.  Boil  the  sugar  and  water  until 
they  form  a rich  syrup,  adding  the  ginger  when  it  boils 
up.  Pare,  core,  and  cut  the  apples  into  pieces;  dip  them 
in  cold  water  to  preserve  the  color,  and  boil  them  in  the 
syrup  until  transpfsrent;  but  be  careful  not  to  let  them 
break.  Put  the  pieces  of  apple  into  jars,  pour  over  the 
.syrup,  and  carefully  exclude  the  air,  by  well  covering 
them.  It  will  remain  good  for  some  time,  if  kept  in  a 
dry  place. 

ICED  CURRANTS. 

One-quarter  pint  of  water,  the  whites  of  two  eggs, 
currants,  pounded  sugar.  Select  very  fine  bunches  of 
red  or  white  currants,  and  well  beat  the  whites  of 
the  eggs.  Mix  these  with  water;  then  take  the  currants, 
a bunch  at  a time,  and  dip  them  in;  let  them  drain  foT 
a minute  or  two,  and  roll  them  in  very  finely-pounded 
sugar  Lay  them  to  dry  on  paper,  Avhen  the  sugar  will 
crystallize  around  each  currant,  and  have  a very  pretty 
effect.  All  fresh  fruit  may  be  prepared  in  the  same 


THE  EVERYDAY  GOOHBOOK. 


221 


manner;  and  a mixture  of  various  fruits  iced  in  this 
manner,  and  arranged  on  one  dish,  looks  very  v/eli  for 
a summer  dessert, 

TO  BOTTLE  FRESH  FRUIT. 

(VERY  USEFUL  IN  Vf INTER.) 

Fresh  fruit,  such  as  currants,  raspberries,  cherries, 
gooseberries,  plums  of  all  kinds,  damsoms,  etc. ; wide- 
mouthed glass  bottles^  new  corks  to  fit  them  tightly <, 
Let  the  fruit  be  full  grown,  but  not  too  ripe,  and  gath^ 
ered  in  dry  weather.  Pick  it  off  the  stalks  without 
bruising  or  breaking  the  skin,  and  reject  any  that  is  at 
all  blemished;  if  gathered  in  the  damp,  or  if  the  skins 
are  cut  at  all,  the  fruit  will  mold.  Have  ready  some 
perfectly  dry  glass  bottles,  and  some  nice  new  soft  corks 
or  bungs;  burn  a match  in  each  bottle,  to  exhaust  the 
air,  and  quickly  place  the  fruit  in  to  be  preserved;  gen- 
tly cork  the  bottles,  and  put  them  miofXY^ry  cool  oven, 
where  let  them  remain  until  the  fruit  has  shrunk  away 
a fourth  part.  Then  take  the  bottles  out,  do  not  open 
them^  but  immediately  beat  the  corks  in  tight,  cut  off 
the  tops,  and  cover  them  with  melted  rosin.  If  kept  in 
a dry  place,  the  fruit  will  remain  good  for  months;  and 
on  this  principally  depends  the  success  of  ^the  prepara- 
tion,  for  if  stored  away  in  a place  that  is  the  least  damp, 
the  fruit  will  soon  spoil. 

TO  GREEN  FRUIT  FOR  PEESEEVING  IN 
SUGAR  OR  VINEGAR. 

Apples,  pears,  limes,  plums,  apricots,  etc.,  for  pre- 
serving or  pickling,  may  be  greened  thus:  Putovine- 
ieaves  under,  between,  and  over  the  fruit  in  a preserv- 
ing-kettle; put  small  bits  of  alum,  the  size  of  a pea,  say 
a dozen  bits  to  a kettlexul;  put  enough  water  to  cover 
the  fruit,  cover  the  kettle  close  to  exclude  all  outer  air^ 


THE  EVERYDAY  COOK-BOOK. 


set  it  over  a gentle  fire,  let  them  simmer;  when  they 
are  tender  drain  off  the  water;  if  they  are  not  a fine 
green  let  them  become  cold,  then  put  vine-leaves  and  a 
bit  of  saleratus  or  soda  with  them,  and  set  them  over 
a slow  fire  until  they  begin  to  simmer;  a bit  of  soda  or 
saleratus  the  size  of  a small  nutmeg  will  have  the  desired 
effect;  then  spread  them  out  to  cool,  after  which  finish 
as  severally  directed. 

TO  @OLOR  PKESEEVES  PINK. 

By  putting  in  with  it  a little  cochineal  powdered  fine, 
then  finish  in  the  syrup. 

TO  COLOR  FRUIT  YELLOW. 

/ Boil  the  fruit  with  fresh  skin  lemons  in  water  to  cover 
them,  until  it  is  tender;  then  take  it  up,  spread  it  on 
dishes  to  cool,  and  finish  as  may  be  directed 

CANNED  STRAWBERRIES. 

After  the  berries  are  pulled,  let  as  many  as  can  be 
put  carefully  in  the  preserve  kettle  at  once  bo  placed  on 
a platter.  To  each  pound  of  fruit  add  three-fourths  of 
a pound  of  sugar;  let  them  stand  two  or  three  hours, 
till  the  juice  is  drawn  from  them;  pour  it  in  the  kettle 
and  let  it  come  to  a boil;  and  remove  the  scum  which 
rises;  then  put  in  the  bei’ries  very  carefully.  As  soon 
as  they  come  thoroughly  to  aboil  put  them  in  warm  jars, 
and  seal  while  boiling  hot.  Be  sure  the  cans  are  air- 
tight. 

CANNED  PEACHES. 

Select  some  fine,  free-stone  peaches;  pare,  cut  in  two 
and  stone  them.  Immerse  in  cold  water,  taking  caie 


ms  EVEBYDAY  COOK-BOOK. 


m 


not  to  break  the  fruit.  See  that  the  peaches  are  not 
over  ripe.  Place  in  the  kettle,  scattering  sugar  between 
the  layers — the  sugar  should  be  in  the  proportion  of  a 
full  tablespoonful  to  a quart  of  fruit.  To  prevent  burn- 
ing put  a little  water  in  the  kettle.  Heat  slowlj'^  to  a 
boil,  then  boil  for  three  or  four  minutes.  Can  and  seal 
the  fruit. 


CANNED  PEARS. 

Prepare  and  can  precisely  like  peaches  in  preceding 
receipe,  except  that  they  require  longer  cooking.  When 
done  they  are  easily  pierced  with  a silver  fork. 

CANNED  PLUMS. 

To  every  pound  of  fruit  allow  three-quarters  of  a 
pound  of  sugar ; for  the  thin  syrup,  a quarter  of  a 
pound  of  sugar  to  each  pint  of  water.  Select  fine 
fruit,  and  prick  with  a needle  to  prevent  burst'ng. 
Simmer  gently  in  a syrup  made  with  the  above  propor- 
tion of  sugar  and  water.  Let  them  boil  not  longer 
than  five  minutes.  Put  the  plums  in  a jar,  pour  in  the 
hot  syrup,  and  seal.  Greengages  are  also  delicious 
done  in  this  manner. 

CANNED  CURRANTS. 

Look  them  over  carefully,  stem  and  weigh  them, 
allowing  a pound  of  sugar  to  every  one  of  fruit ; put 
them  in  a kettle,  cover,  and  leave  them  to  heat  slowp' 
and  stew  gently  for  twenty  or  thirty  minutes  ; then  ar" 
the  sugar,  and  shake  the  kettle  occasionally  to  make  it 
mix  with  the  fruit ; do  not  allow  it  to  boil,  but  keep  as 
hot  as  possible  until  the  sugar  is  dissolved,  then  pour  it 


224  THE  EVEBYBAT  COOHBOOK. 

in  cans  and  secure  the  covers  at  once.  White  currants 
are  beautiful  preserved  in  this  way. 

CANHED  PINEAPPLE. 

For  six  pounds  of  fruit  when  cut  and  ready  to  can, 
make  syrup  with  two  and  a half  pounds  of  sugar  and; 
nearly  three  pints  of  water;  boil  syrup  five  minutes  and’ 
sldm  or  strain  if  necessary;  then  add  the  fruit,  and  let 
it  boil  up  ; have  cans  hot,  fill  and  shut  up  as  soon  as 
possible.  Use  the  best  white  sugar.  As  the  cans  cool 
keep  tightening  them  up. 

TO  CAN  QUINCES. 

Cut  the  quinces  into  thin  slices  like  apples  for  pies. 
To  one  quart  jarful  of  quince  take  a coftee-saucer  and  a 
half  of  sugar  and  a cofi'ecup  of  water;  put  the  sugar 
and  water  on  the  fire,  and  when  boiling  put  in  the 
quinces,  have  ready  the  jars  with  their  fastenings,  stand 
the  jars  in  a pan  of  boiling  water  on  the  stove,  and 
when  the  quince  is  clear  and  tender  put  rapidly  into 
the  jars,  fruit  and  syrup  together.  The  jars  must  be 
filled  so  that  tlic  syrup  overflows,  and  fastened  up 
tight  as  quickly  as  possible. 

CANNING  TOMATOES. 

Scald  your  tomatoes,  remove  the  skins,  cut  in  small 
pieces,  put  in  a porcelian  kettle,  salt  to  taste,  and  boil 
fifteen  minutes;  have  tin  cans  filled  with  hot  water; 
pour  the  water  out  and  fill  with  tomatoes;  solder  tops 
on  immediately  with  shellac  and  rosin  melted  together. 

CANNED  CORN. 

Dissolve  an  ounce  of  tartaric  acid  in  half  teacup 
water  and  take  one  tablespoon  to  two  quarts  of  sweet 


THE  ENEBY  DAY  COOK-BOOK. 


225 


corn;  cook,  and  while  boiling  hot,  fill  the  cans,  which 
should  be  tin.  When  used  turn  into  a colander,  rinse 
with  cold  water,  add  a little  soda  and  sugar  while  cook- 
ing, and  season  with  butter,  pepper  and  salt. 


226 


THE  EVERYDAY  COOKBOOK. 


ICES,  ICE-CREAM,  CANDY. 


CUHBANT  ICE, 

One  pint  of  currant  juice,  one  pound  of  sugar,  and 
pint  of  water;  put  in  freezer,  and  when  partly  frozen 
add  the  whites  of  three  eggs  well  beaten. 

STRAWBERRY  OR  RASPBERRY  ICE. 

One  quart  of  berries.  Extract  the  juice  and  strain; 
one  pint  of  sugar,  dissolved  in  the  juice;  one  lemon, 
juice  only;  half  pint  of  water. 

ORANGE  AND  LEMON  ICES, 

The  rind  of  three  oranges  grated  and  steeped  a few 
moments  in  a little  more  than  a pint  of  water;  strain 
one  pint  of  this  on  a pound  of  sugar  and  then  add  one 
pint  vof  oran|^  or  lemon-juice;  pour  in  a freezer,  and 
when  half  fro^n  add  the  whites  of  four  eggs  beaten  to 
a still  froth. 

ICECREAM. 

One  quart  of  new  milk,  two  egg-^,  two  tablespoons  of 
corn  starch;  heat  Lae  milk  in  a dish  set  in  hot  water, 
then  stir  in  the  corn  starch  mixed  smooth  in  a little  of 
the  milk;  let  it  boil  for  one  or  two  minutes,  then  remove 
from  stove  and  cool,  and  stir  in  the  egg  and  half  a 
pound  of  sugar.  If  to  be  extra  nice,  add  a pint  of  rich 


THE  EVEBYDAT  COOK-BOOK 


m 


cream,  and  one-fourth  pound  of  sugar,  strain  the  mix- 
ture, and  when  cool  add  the  flavoring,  and  freeze  as  fol- 
lows: Pi’epare  freezer  in  the  usual  manner,  turn  the 
crank  one  hundred  times,  then  pour  upon  the  ice  and 
salt  a quart  of  boiling  water  from  the  teakettle.  Fill 
up  again  Vfith  ice  and  salt,  turn  the  crank  fifty  times 
one  way  and  twenty-five  the  other  (which  serves  to 
scrape  the  cream  from  sides  of  freezer);  by  this  time  it 
will  turn  very  hard,  indicating  that  the  cream  is  frozen 
sufficiently. 

VANILLA  OR  LEMON  ICE-CREAM, 

Take  two  drachms  of  vanilla  or  lemon-peel,  one  quart 
ot  milk,  half  a pound  of  sugar,  one  pint  of  cream,  and 
the  yolks  of  three  eggs;  beat  the  yolks  well,  and  stir 
them  with  the  milk,  then  add  the  othe^  ingredients;  set 
it  over  a moderate  fire,  and  stir  it  constantly  with  a sil- 
ver spoon  until  it  is  boiling  hot,  then  take  out  the 
lemon-peel  or  vanilla,  and,  when  cold,  freeze  it. 

STRAWBERRY  ICE  CREAM. 

Sprinkle  strawberries  with  sugar,  wash  well  and  rub 
through  a sieve;  to  a pint  of  the  juice  add  half  a pint  of 
good  cream;  make  it  very  sweet;  freeze,  and  when  be- 
ginning to  set,  stir  lightly  one  pint  of  fi'eam  whipped, 
and  lastly  a handful  of  whole  strawberries;  sw’eetened. 
It  may  be  put  in  a mold  and  imbedded  in  ice,  or  keep 
in  the  freezer;  or  mash  with  a potato  pounder  in  an 
earthen  bowl  one  quart  of  strawberries  with  one  pound 
of  sugar,  rub  it  through  a colander;  add  one  quart  of 
sweet  cream  and  freeze.  Or,  if  not  in  the  strawberry 
season,  use  the  French  bottled  strawberries  (or  any 
canned  ones),  mix  juice  with  half  pint  of  cream,  sweeten 
and  freeze;  when  partially  set  add  whipped  cream  and 
strawberries. 


828 


THE  EVEETDAT  COOK-BOOK. 


CHOCOLATE  ICE-CEEAM. 

Take  six  ounces  of  chocolate,  a pint  of  cream,  half  a 
pint  of  new  milk,  and  half  a pint  of  sugar.  Rub  the 
chocolate  down  into  the  milk  and  mix  thoroughly,  add- 
ing the  cream  and  sugar.  The  milk  should  be  heated 
almost  to  boiling.  Heat  until  it  thickens,  stirring  con- 
stantly. Strain  and  set  aside  to  cool,  afterwards  freeze. 
This  makes  perhaps  the  most  favorite  of  ice-creams. 

CREAM  CANDIES. 

Three  and  one-half  pounds  of  sugar  to  one  and  one- 
half  pints  of  water;  dissolve  in  the  water  before  putting 
with  the  sugar  one-quarter  of  an  ounce  of  fine  white 
gum-arabic,  and  when  added  to  the  sugar  put  in  one  tea- 
spoon of  cream  of  tartar.  The  candy  should  not  be 
boiled  quite  to  the  brittle  stage.  The  proper  degree 
can  be  ascertained  if,  when  a small  skimmer  is  put  in 
and  taken  out,  when  blowing  through  the  holes  of  the 
skimmer,  the  melted  sugar  is  forced  through  in  feather 
filaments;  remove  from  the  fire  at  this  point  and  rub  the 
syrup  against  the  sides  of  the  dish  with  an  iron  spoon. 
If  it  is  to  be  a chocolate  candy,  add  two  ounces  of  choco- 
late finely  sifted  and  such  flavoring  as  you  may  prefer, 
vanilla,,  rolls,  or  orange.  If  you  wish  to  make  cocoa- 
nut  candy,  add  this  while  soft  and  stir  until  cold. 

PINEAPPLE  ICS-CEEAM. 

Three  pints  of  cream,  two  large  ripe  pineapples,  two 
pounds  powdered  sugar;  slice  the  pineapples  thin,  scat- 
ter the  sugar  between  the  slices,  cover  and  let  the  fruit 
stand  three  hours,  cut  or  chop  it  up  in  the  syrup,  and 
strain  through  a hair  sieve  or  double  bag  of  coarse  lace; 
beat  gradually  into  the  cream,  and  freeze  as  rapidly  as 
possible;  reserve  a few  pieces  of  pineapple  unsugared, 


THE  EVERYDAY  COOHBOOK. 


229 


cut  into  square  bits,  and  stir  through  cream  when  half 
frozen,  first  a pint  of  well-whipped  cream,  and  then  the 
fruit.  Peach  ice  cream  may  be  made  in  the  same  way, 

ITALIAN  CKEAM. 

Put  one  ounce  of  soaked  isinglass,  six  ounces  of  loaf- 
sugar,  half  a stick  of  vanilla,  and  one  pint  of  milk  into 
a saucepan;  boil  slowly,  and  stir  all  the  time  until  the 
isinglass  is  dissolved;  strain  the  mixture,  and  when  a 
little  cool  mix  with  a pint  of  thick  cream.  Beat  thor- 
oughly until  it  thickens.  Pour  into  large  or  individual 
molds,  and  put  in  ice-box  until  wanted. 

TO  MAKE  BARLEY-SUGAK. 

To  every  pound  of  sugar  allow  one-half  pint  of 
water,  one-half  of  the  white  of  an  egg.  Put  the  sugar 
into  a well-tinned  saucepan,  with  the  water,  and  when 
the  former  is  dissolved  set  it  over  a moderate  fire,  add- 
ing the  well-beaten  egg  before  the  mixture  gets  warm, 
and  stir  it  well  together.  Wh^n  it  boils,  remove  the 
scum  as  it  rises,  and  keep  it  boiling  until  no  more 
appears,  and  the  syrup  looks  perfectly  clear;  then 
strain  it  through  a fine  sieve  or  muslin  bag,  and  put  it 
back  into  the  saucepan.  Boil  it  again  like  caramel, 
until  it  is  brittle  when  a little  is  dropped  into  a basin  of 
cold  water;  it  is  then  sufficiently  boiled.  Add  a little 
lemon-juice  and  a few  drops  of  the  essence  of  lemon, 
and  let  it  stand  for  a minute  or  two.  Have  ready  a 
marble  slab  or  large  dish  rubbed  over  with  salad  oil, 
pour  the  sugar  on  it,  and  cut  it  into  strips  with  a pair 
of  scissors;  these  strips  should  then  be  twisted,  and  the 
barley-sugar  stored  away  in  a very  dry  place.  It  may 
be  formed  into  lozenges  or  drops,  by  dropping  the  sugar 
in  a very  small  quantity  at  a time  on  to  the  oiled  slab 
or  dish. 


830 


THE  EVERYDAY  COOK-BOOK. 


TO  MAKE  EVERTON  TOFFEE. 

One  pound  of  powdered  loaf-sugar,  one  teacupful  of 
water,  one-quarter  pound  of  butter,  six  drops  of  essence 
of  lemon.  Put  the  water  and  sugar  into  a brass  pan, 
and  beat  the  butter  to  a cream.  When  the  sugar  is  dis- 
solved, add  the  butter,  and  keep  stirring  the  mixture 
over  th  fire  until  it  sets  when  a little  is  poured  onto  a 
buttered  dish;  and  just  before  the  toffee  is  done  add  the 
essence  of  lemon.  Butter  a dish  or  tin,  pour  on  it  the 
mixture,  and  when  cool  it  will  easily  separate  from  the 
dish  Butter-Scotch,  an  excellent  thing  for  coughs, 
is  made  with  brown,  instead  of  white  sugar,  omitting 
the  water,  and  flavored  with  one-half  ounce  of  ginger 
It  is  made  in  the  same  manner  as  toffee. 

COCOANUT  DROPS. 

To  one  grated  cocoanut  add  half  its  weight  of  sugar 
and  the  white  of  one  egg,  cut  to  a stiff  froth;  mix  thor- 
oughly and  drop  on  buttered  white  paper  or  tin  sheets. 
Bake  fifteen  minutes. 

MOLASSES  CANDY. 

One  cup  of  molasses,  two  cups  of  sugar,  one  table- 
spoonful vinegar,  a little  butter  and  vanilla,  boil  ten 
minutes,  then  cool  it  enough  to  pull. 

CHOCOLATE  CARAMELS. 

Two  cups  of  brown  sugar,  one  cup  molasses,  one 
cup  chocolate  grated  fine,  one  cup  of  boiled  milk,  one 
tablespoonful  flour;  butter  the  size  of  a large  English 
walnut;  let  it  boil  slowly  and  pour  on  flat  tins  to  cool; 
markofll  while  warm. 


THE  EVEBTBA  7 COOK-BOOK 


2S1 


LEMON  CANDY 

Put  into  a kettle  three  and  one-half  pounds  of  sugar, 
one  and  one -half  pints  of  water,  and  one  teaspoon  of 
cream  of  tartar.  Let  it  boil  until  it  becomes  brittle, 
when  dropped  in  cold  water;  when  sufficiently  done 
take  off  the  fire  and  pour  in  a shallow  dish  which  has 
been  greased  with  a little  butter.  When  this  has  cooled 
so  that  it  can  be  handled,  add  a teaspoon  of  tartaric  acid 
and  the  same  quantity  of  extract  of  lemon,  and  work 
them  into  the  mass.  The  acid  must  be  fine  and  free 
from  lumps.  Work  this  in  until  evenly  distributed, 
and  no  more,  as  it  will  tend  to  destroy  the  transparency 
of  the  candy.  This  method  may  be  used  for  prepariiig 
all  other  candies,  as  pineapple,  etc.,  using  differciit 
flavors. 


m 


THE  EVERYDAY  COOK-BOOK, 


DRINKS. 


TO  MAKE  GEEEN  TEA. 

r~  Have  ready  a kettle  of  water  boiling  fast,  pour  some 
into  the  teapot,  let  it  remain  for  a few  minutes,  then 
throw  it  out;  measure  a teaspoonful  of  tea  for  each  two 
persons,  put  it  in  the  pot;  pour  on  it  about  a gill  of 
boiling  water,  cover  It  close  for  five  minutes,  then  fill 
it  up;  have  a covered  pitcher  of  boiling  water  with  it; 
when  two  cups  are  poured  from  it,  fill  it  up;  you  will 
thus  keep  the  strength  good  and  equal.  If  the  company 
is  large,  it  is  best  to  have  some  of  the  tea  drawn  in  the 
covered  pitcher,  and  replenish  the  teapot  or  urn  when 
it  is  exhausted. 

TO  MAKE  BLACK  TEA. 

Make  as  directed  for  green  tea. 

ICED  TEA. 

Prepare  tea  in  the  morning,  making  it  stronger  and 
sweeter  than  usual;  strain  and  pour  into  a clean  stone 
jug  or  glass  bottle,  and  set  aside  in  the  ice-chest  until 
ready  to  use.  Drink  from  goblets  without  cream. 
Serve  ice  broken  in  small  pieces  on  a platter  nicely 
garnished  with  well- washed  grape-leaves.  Iced  tea  may 
be  prepared  from  either  green  or  black  alone,  but  it  is 
considered  an  improvement  to  mix  the  two.  Tea  made 
like  that  for  iced  tea  (or  that  left  in  the  teapot  after  a 


THE  EVERYDAY  COOR-^BOOR. 


2B3 


meal),  with  sugar  to  taste,  a slice  or  two  of  lemon,  a 
little  of  the  juice,  and  some  pieces  of  cracked  ice,  makes 
a delightful  drink.  Serve  in  glasses. 

TO  MAKE  COFFEE, 

.Take  a good-sized  cupful  of  ground  coffee,  and  pour 
it  into  a quart  of  boiling  water,  with  the  white  of  an  egg 
and  the  crushed  shell.  Stir  well  together,  adding  a half- 
cupful of  cold  water  to  clear.  Put  into  the  coffee-boiler 
and  boil  for  about  a quarter  of  an  hour;  after  standing 
for  a little  while  to  settle,  pour  into  j^our  coffeepot, 
which  should  be  well  scalded,  and  send  to  the  table. 
The  coffee  should  be  stirred  as  it  boils.  To  make  coffee 
an  lait^  take  a pint  each  of  hot  made  coffee  and  boiling 
milk;  strain  through  thin  muslin  into  coffeepot,  to  get 
rid  of  the  grounds,  and  serve  hot. 

CHOCOLATE. 

Take  six  tablespoons  scraped  chocolate,  or  three  of 
chocolate  and  three  of  cocoa,  dissolve  in  a quart  of 
boiling  water,  boil  hard  fifteen  minutes,  add  one  quart 
of  rich  milk,  let  scald  and  serve  hot;  this  is  enough  for 
six  persons.  Cocoa  can  also  be  made  after  this  receipt. 
Some  boil  either  cocoa  or  chocolate  only  one  minute  and 
then  serve,  while  others  make  it  the  day  before  using, 
boiling  it  for  one  hour,  and  when  cool  skimming  off  the 
oil,  and  when  wanted  for  use,  heat  it  to  the  boiling  point 
and  add  the  milk.  In  this  way  it  is  equally  good  and 
nmch  more  wholesome.  Cocoa  is  from  the  seed  of  the 
fruit  of  a small  tropical  tree.  There  are  several  forms 
in  which  it  is  sold,  the  most  nutritious  and  convenient 
being  chocolate,  the  next  cocoa,  then  cocoa  nibs,  and 
last  cocoa  shells.  The  ground  bean  is  simply  cocoa; 
ground  fine  and  mixed  with  sugar  and  chocolate;  the 
beans  broken  into  bits  arc  ^ ^nibs.  ” The  shells  are  the 
shells  of  the  bean,  usually  removed  before  grinding* 


234 


THE  EVERYDAY  COOK-BOOK, 


The  beans  are  roasted  iike  coffee,  and  ground  between 
hot  rollers  0 

LEMON  SYRUP. 

Take  the  juice  of  twelve  lemons,  grate  the  rind  of  six 
in  it,  let  it  stand  over  night,  then  take  six  pounds  of 
white  sugar  and  make  a thick  syrup.  When  it  cools, 
strain  the  juice  into  it,  and  squeeze  as  much  oil  from 
the  grated  rind  as  will  suit  the  taste.  A tablespoonful 
in  a goblet  of  water  will  make  a delicious  drink  on  a hot 
day,  far  superior  to  that  prepared  from  the  stuff  com- 
monly sold  as  lemon  syrup. 

STRAWBERRY  SYRUP. 

Take  fine  ripe  strawberries,  crush  them  in  a cloth, 
and  press  the  juice  from  them;  to  each  pint  of  it  put  a 
pint  of  simple  syrup,  boil  gently  for  one  hour,  then  let 
it  become  cold,  and  bottle  it;  cork  and  seal  it.  When 
served  reduce  it  to  waste  water,  set  it  on  ice,  and  serve 
in  small  tumblers  half  filled. 

RASPBERRY  SYRUP. 

Make  as  directed  for  strawberry. 

STRAWBERRY  SHERBET. 

Take  fourteen  ounces  of  picked  strawberries,  crush 
them  in  a mortar,  then  add  to  them  a quart  of  water; 
pour  this  into  a basin,  with  a lemon  sliced,  and  a tea- 
spoonful of  orange-flower  water;  let  it  remain  for  two  or 
three  hours.  Put  eighteen  ounces  of  sugar  into  another 
basin,  cover  it  with  a cloth,  through  which  pour  the 
strawberry-juice;  after  as  much  has  run  through  as  will, 
gather  up  the  cloth,  and  squeeze  out  as  much  juice  at 


THE  EVEBY  DAY  COOK-BOOK, 


235 


possible  from  it;  when  the  sugar  is  all  dissolved,  strain 
it  again;  set  the  vessel  containing  it  on  ice,  until  ready 
to  serve. 

RASPBERRY  VINEGAR. 

To  four  quarts  red  raspberries,  put  enough  vinegar  to 
cover,  and  let  them  stand  twenty-four  hours;  scald  and 
strain  it;  add  a pound  of  sugar  to  one  phat  of  juice;  boil 
it  twenty  minutes,  and  bottle;  it  is  then  ready  for  use 
and  will  keep  for  years.  To  one  glass  of  water  adi  a 
great  spoonful.  It  is  much  relished  by  the  sick.  Very 
nice. 

LEMONADE. 

Take  half  a pound  of  loaf-sugar  and  reduce  it  to  a 
syrup  with  one  pint  of  water;  add  the  rind  of  five  lemons 
and  let  stand  an  hour;  remove  the  rinds  and  add  the 
strained  juice  of  the  lemons;  add  one  bottle  of  ‘^Apolli- 
naris”  water,  and  a block  of  ice  in  the  centre  of  the 
bowl.  Peel  one  lemon  and  cut  it  up  into  thin  slices, 
divide  each  slice  in  two,  and  put  in  lemonade.  Claret 
or  fine  cordials  may  be  added  if  desired.  Serve  with 
a piece  of  lemon  in  each  glass. 

EGGNOG. 

Whip  the  whites  and  yolks  of  six  eggs  into  a stiff 
cream,  adding  a half  cupful  of  sugar.  Pour  into  a 
quart  of  rich  milk,  adding  a half  pint  of  good  brandy, 
and  a little  flavoring  of  nutmeg.  Stiring  up  and  thor- 
oughly mix  the  ingredients,  and  add  the  whites  of  three 
additional  eggs  well  whipped. 

RASIN  WINE. 

Take  two  pounds  of  rasins,  seed  and  chop  them,  a 
lemon,  a pound  of  white  sugar,  and  about  two  gallons 


THE  EVERYDAY  COOK-BOOK. 


of  boiling  water.  Pour  into  a stone  jar,  and  stir  daily 
for  six  or  eight  days.  Strain,  bottle,  and  put  in  a cool 
place  for  ten  days  or  so,  when  the  wine  will  be  ready 
for  use. 


CURRANT  WINE. 

The  currants  should  be  quite  ripe.  Stem,  mash,  and 
strain  them,  adding  a half  pint  of  water,  and  less  than  a 
pound  of  sugar,  to  a quart  of  mashed  fi’uit.  Stir  well 
up  together  and  pour  in  clean  cask,  leaving  the  bung- 
hole  open,  or  covered  with  a piece  of  lace.  It  should 
stand  for  a month  to  ferment,  when  it  will  be  ready  for 
bottling. 

GINGER  WINE. 

One-half  pound  of  cinnamon  bark,  four  ounces  of 
pimento,  two  ounces  of  mace,  three-quarters  of  an  ounce 
of  capsicum,  three-quarters  of  a pound  of  ginger  root, 
five  gallons  of  alcohol;  macerate  and  strain  or  filter, 
after  standing  fifteen  days.  Now  make  syrup,  thirty 
pounds  of  white  sugar,  half  pound  of  tartar,  dissolved 
with  warm  water,  clarify  with  whites  of  two  eggs,  and 
add  soft  water  to  make  forty  gallons.  Color  with 
cochineal  and  let  it  stand  six  months  before  use. 

FINE  MILK  PUNCH. 

Pare  off  the  yellow  rind  of  four  large  lemons,  and 
steep  it  for  twenty-four  hours  in  a quart  of  brandy  or 
rum.  Then  mix  with  it  the  juice  of  the  lemons,  a pound 
and  a half  of  loaf-sugar,  two  grated  nutmegs,  and  a 
quart  of  water.  Add  a quart  of  rich  unskimmed  milk, 
made  boiling  hot,  and  strain  the  whole  thi’ough  a jelly- 
bag.  You  may  either  use  it  as  soon  as  it  is  cold,  or, 
make  a large  quantity  (in  the  above  proportion  and 
bottle  it.  It  will  keep  several  mouths.) 


TEE  EVEBYDAY  COOK-BOOK, 


237 


CLARET  CUP. 

One  quart  bottle  of  claret,  one  bottle  of  soda  water, 
cne  lemon  cut  very  thin,  four  tablespoons  of  powdered 
sugar,  quarter  of  a teaspoon  of  grated  nutmeg,  one 
liquor  glass  of  brandy,  one  wineglass  of  sherry  wine. 
Half  an  hour  before  it  is  to  be  used,  put  in  a large 
piece  of  ice,  so  that  it  may  get  perfectly  cold. 

ROMAN  PUNCH. 

Grate  the  yellow  rinds  of  four  lemons  and  two 
oranges  upon  two  pounds  of  loaf-sugar.  Squeeze  on 
the  juice  of  the  lemons  and  oranges;  cover  it,  and  let  it 
stand  till  next  day.  Then  strain  it  through  a sieve,  add 
a bottle  of  champagne,  and  the  whites  of  eight  eggs 
beaten  to  a froth.  You  may  freeze  it  or  not. 

CREAM  NECTAR. 

Dissolve  two  pounds  of  crushed  sugar  in  three  quarts 
of  water;  boil  down  to  two  quarts;  drop  in  the  white  of 
an  egg  while  boiling;  then  strain,  and  put  in  the  tartaric 
acid;  when  cold  drop  in  the  lemon  to  your  taste;  then 
bottle  and  cork.  Shake  two  or  three  times  a day. 

RED-CURRANT  CORDIAL. 

To  two  quarts  of  red-currants  put  one  quart  of 
whiskey;  let  it  stand  twenty-four  hours,  then  bruise  and 
strain  through  a flannel  bag.  To  every  two  quarts  of 
Ithis  liquor,  add  one  pound  of  loaf-sugar,  add  qu^ter 
of  a pound  of  ginger  well  bruised  and  boiled;  let  the 
whole  stand  to  settle,  then  strain  or  filter;  bottle  and 
cork,  seal  the  corks  tightly.  It  is  an  improvement  to 
have  half  red-raspberry  juice  if  the  flavor  is  liked.  The 
above  is  fit  for  use  in  a month* 


238 


TEE  EVERYDAY  COOEBOOK, 


ELDERBERRY  SYRUP. 

Take  elderberries  perfectly  ripe,  wash  and  strain 
them,  put  a pint  of  molasses  to  a pint  of  the  juice, 
boil  it  twenty  minutes,  stirring  constantly,  when  cold 
add  to  each  quart  a pint  of  French  brandy;  bottle  and 
cork  it  tight.  It  is  an  excellent  remedy  for  a cough. 


TEE  EVERYDAY  COOK-BOOK. 


239 


INVALID  COOKERY. 


POET  WINE  JELLY. 

Melt  in  a little  warm  water  an  ounce  of  isinglass; 
stir  it  into  a pint  of  port  wine,  adding  two  ounces  of 
sugar  candy,  an  ounce  of  gum-arabic,  and  half  a nut- 
meg, grated.  Mix  all  well  and  boil  it  ten  minutes;  or 
till  everything  is  thoroughly  dissolved.  Then  strain  it 
through  muslin  and  set  away  to  get  cold. 

TAPIOCA  JELLY. 

Wash  the  tapioca  carefully  in  two  or  three  waters, 
then  soak  it  for  five  or  six  hours,  simmer  it  then  in  a 
stewpan  until  it  becomes  quite  clear,  add  a little  of  the 
juice  of  a lemon,  wine  if  desired. 

AEKOWEOOT  WINE  JELLY. 

One  cup  boiling  water,  two  heaping  teaspoons  arrow- 
root,  two  heaping  teaspoons  white  sugar,  one  table- 
spoonful brandy  or  three  tablespoonfuls  of  wine.  An 
excellent  corrective  for  weak  bowles. 

JELLIED  CHICKEN. 

Cook  six  chickens  in  a small  quantity  of  water,  until 
the  meat  will  part  from  the  bone  easily,  season  to  taste 
with  salt  and  pepper;  just  as  soon  as  cold  enough  to 
handle,  remove  bones  and  skin;  place  meat  in  a deep 
pan  or  mold,  just  as  it  comes  from  the  bone,  using 
gizzard,  liver  and  heart;  until  the  mold  is  nearly  full. 
To  the  water  left  in  the  kettl^  add  three-fourths  o£  a 


240 


TEE  EVERYDAY  COOEBOOE 


box  of  Cox’s  gelatine  (some  add  juice  of  lemon),  dis 
solved  in  a little  warm  water,  and  boil  until  it  is  reduced 
to  a little  less  than  a quart,  pour  over  the  chicken  in  the 
mold,  leave  to  cool,  cut  with  a very  sharp  knife  and 
serve.  The  slices  will  not  easily  break  up  if  directions 
are  f ollowedo 

CHICKEN  BROTH. 

Half  fowl,  or  the  inferior  joints  of  a whole  one,  one 
quart  of  water,  one  blade  of  mace,  half  onion,  a small 
bunch  of  sweet  herbs,  salt  to  taste,  ten  peppercorns.  If 
a young  one  be  used  for  this  broth,  the  inferior  joints 
may  be  put  in  the  broth,  and  the  best  pieces  reserved 
for  dressing  in  some  other  manner.  Put  the  fowl  into 
a saucepan,  with  all  the  ingredients,  and  simmer  gently 
for  one  and  a half  hours,  carefully  skimming  the  broth 
well.  When  done,  strain,  and  put  by  in  a cool  place 
until  wanted;  then  take  all  the  fat  off  the  top,  warm  up 
as  much  as  may  be  required,  and  serve.  This  broth  is, 
of  course,  only  for  those  invalids  whose  stomachs  are 
strong  enough  to  digest  it,  with  a flavoring  of  herbs, 
etc.  It  may  be  made  in  the  same  manner  as  beef  tea, 
with  water  and  salt  only;  but  the  preparation  will  be  but 
tasteless  and  insipid.  When  the  invalid  cannot  digest 
this  chicken  broth  with  flavoring,  we  would  recom- 
mend plain  beef  tea  in  preference  to  plain  chicken  tea, 
which  it  would  be  without  the  addition  of  herbs, 
onions,  etc. 

TO  MAKE  GRUEL. 

One  tablespoonful  of  Robinson’s  patent  groats,  two 
tablespoonfuls  of  cold  water,  one  pint  of  boiling  water. 
Mix  the  prepared  groats  smoothly  with  the  cold  water 
in  a basin;  pour  over  them  the  boiling  water,  stiring  it 
all  the  time.  Put  it  into  a very  clean  saucepan;  boil 
tile  gruel  for  ten  minutes,  keeping  it  well  stirred; 


THE  EVERYDAY  COOK-BOOK. 


241 


sweeten  to  taste,  and  serve.  It  may  be  flavored  with 
a small  piece  of  lemon-peel,  by  boiling  it  in  the  gruel, 
or  a little  grated  nutmeg  may  be  put  in;  but  in  these 
matters  the  taste  of  the  patient  should  be  consulted. 
Pour  the  gruel  in  a tumbler  and  serve.  When  wine  is 
allowed  to  the  invalid,  two  tablespoonfuls  of  sherry  or 
port  make  this  preparation  very  nice.  In  cases  of  colds, 
the  same  quantity  of  spirits  is  sometimes  added  instead 
of  wine. 

BARLEY  WATER. 

Put  a large  tablespoonful  of  well-washed  pearl  barley 
into  a pitcher;  pour  over  it  boiling  water;  cover  it,  and 
let  it  remain  till  cold;  then  drain  off  the  water;  sweeten 
to  taste,  and,  if  liked,  add  the  juice  of  a lemon,  and 
grated  nutmeg. 

ARROWROOT  BLANC  MANGE. 

Put  a quart  of  milk  to  boil,  take  an  ounce  of  Bermuda 
arrowroot  ground  fine,  make  it  a smooth  batter  with 
cold  milk,  add  a teaspoonful  of  salt;  when  the  milk  is 
boiling  hot,  stir  the  batter  into  it,  continue  to  stir  it 
over  a gentle  fire  (that  it  may  not  be  scorched)  for  three 
or  four  minutes,  sweeten  to  taste  with  double  refined 
sugar,  and  flavor  with  lemon  extract  or  orange-flower 
water,  or  boil  a stick  of  cinnamon  or  vanilla  bean  in  the 
anilk  before  putting  in  the  arrowroot;  dip  a mold  into 
cold  water,  strain  the  blanc-mange  through  a muslin  in- 
to the  mold,  when  perfectly  cold  turn  it  out;  serve  cur- 
irant  jelly  or  jam  with  it. 

LEMONADE  FOR  INVALIDS. 

One-half  a lemon,  lump  sugar  to  taste,  one  pint  of 
boiling  water.  Pare  off  the  rind  of  the  lemon  thinly; 
cut  the  lemon  into  two  or  three  thick  slices,  and  remove 


242  TEE  EVEBTEAT  COOK-BOOK. 

as  much  as  possible  of  the  white  outside  pith,  and  all 
the  pips.  Put  the  slices  of  lemon,  the  peel,  and  lump 
sugar  into  a jug;  pour  over  the  boiling  water;  cover  it 
closely,  and  in  two  hours  it  will  be  fit  to  drink.  It 
should  either  be  strained  or  poured  off  from  the  sedi- 
ment. 

MUTTON  BROTH 

Is  frequently  ordered  as  a preparation  for  invalids.  For 
the  sick-room  such  broth  must  be  made  as  plainly  as 
possible,  and  so  as  to  secure  the  juice  of  the  meat. 
Boil  slowly  a couple  of  pounds  of  lean  mutton  for  two 
hours,  skim  it  very  carefully  as  it  simmers,  and  do  not 
put  in  very  much  salt.  If  the  doctor  permits,  some 
vegetable  as  seasoning  may  be  added,  and  for  some 
broths  a little  fine  barley  or  rice  is  added. 

FLAX  SEED  LEMONADE. 

Four  tablespoons  flax  seed  (whole),  one  quart  boiling 
water  poured  on  the  flax  seed,  j uice  of  two  lemons,  leav- 
ing out  the  peel.  Sweeten  to  taste;  stew  three  hours 
in  a covered  pitcher.  If  too  thick,  put  in  cold  water 
with  the  lemon- juice  and  sugar.  Ice  for  drinking.  It 
is  splendid  for  colds. 

ARROWROOT. 

This  is  very  nourishing  and  light,  either  for  invalids 
or  infants,  make  it  with  milk  or  water — put  a pint  of 
either  into  a stewpan,  make  it  boiling  hot,  add  a salt- 
spoonful  of  salt,  put  a heaped  teaspoonful  of  ground 
Bermuda  arrowroot  into  a cup,  make  it  smooth  with 
cold  milk,  stir  it  into  the  stewpan,  and  let  it  simmer  for 
two  or  three  minutes;  then  turn  it  into  a bowl,  sweeten 
and  grate  nutmeg  over,  if  liked;  should  it  be  preferred 
thin,  use  less  arrowroot.  This  should  be  made  only  as 
much  as  is  wanted  at  a time,  since  it  will  become  as 
thin  as  water  if  heated  over. 


THE  EVERYDAY  COOK-BOOK. 


243 


STEWED  RABBITS  IN  MILK. 

Two  very  yoong  rabbits,  uot  nearly  half  grown;  one 
and  one-half  pints  of  milk,  one  blade  of  mace,  one  des- 
sertspoonful of  flour,  a little  salt  and  Cayenne.  Mix 
the  flour  very  smoothly  with  four  tablespoonfuls  of  the 
milk,  and  when  this  is  well-mixed,  add  the  remainder. 
Cut  up  the  rabbits  into  joints,  put  them  into  a stewpan 
with  the  milk  and  other  ingredients,  and  simmer  them 
very  gently  until  quite  tender.  Stir  the  contents  from 
time  to  time,  to  keep  the  milk  smooth  and  prevent  it 
from  burning.  Half  an  hour  will  be  sufficient  for  the 
cooking  of  this  dish. 

SLIPPERYELM  BARK  TEA. 

Break  the  bark  into  bits,  pour  boiling  water  over  it, 
cover  and  let  it  infuse  until  cold.  Sweeten,  ice,  and 
take  for  summer  disorders,  or  add  lemon-juice  and  drink 
for  a bad  cold. 

BEEP  TEA. 

One  pound  of  lean  beef,  cut  into  small  pieces.  Put 
into  a jar  without  a drop  of  water;  cover  tightly,  and  set 
in  a pot  of  cold  water.  Heat  gradually  to  a boil,  and 
continue  .this  steadily  for  three  or  four  hours,  until  the 
meat  is  Ifke  white  rags,  and  the  juice  all  drawn  out. 
Season  with  salt  to  taste,  and,  when  cold,  skim. 

EGG  WINE. 

One  egg,  one  tablespoonful  and  one-half  glass  of  cold 
water,  one  glass  of  sherry,  sugar  and  grated  nutmeg  to 
taste.  Beat  the  egg,  mixing  with  it  a tablespoonful  of 
cold  water;  make  the  wine  and  water  hot,  but  not  boil- 
ing; pour  it  on  the  eggs,  stirring  all  the  time.  Add 
sufficient  lump  sugar  to  sweeten  the  mixture,  and  a little 
grated  nutmeg;  put  all  into  a very  clean  saucepan,  set  it 


U44 


THE  EVEn'^BAY  COOK-BOOK. 


on  a gentle  fire,  and  stir  the  contents  one  way  until  they 
thicken,  but  do  not  allow  them  to  hoil.  Serve  in  a glass 
with  snippets  of  toasted  bread  or  plain  crisp  biscuits. 
When  the  egg  is  not  warmed,  the  mixture  will  be  found 
easier  of  digestion,  but  it  is  not  so  pleasant  a drink. 

TOAST  WATER. 

Slices  of  toast,  nicely  browned,  without  a symptom 
of  burning.  Enough  boiling  water  to  cover  them. 
Cover  closely  and  let  them  steep  until  cold.  Strain  the 
water,  sweeten  to  taste,  and  put  a piece  of  ice  in  each 
glassful. 

ONION  GRUEL 

Is  excellent  for  cold.  Slice  down  a few  onions  and  boil 
them  in  a pint  of  new  milk,  stir  in  a sprinkle  of  oat- 
meal and  a very  little  salt,  boil  till  the  onions  are  quite 
tender,  then  sup  rapidly  and  go  to  bed. 


TEE  EVERYDAY  COOK-BOOK, 


»45 


COSMETIQUES. 


COMPLEXION  WASH. 

Put  in  a vial  one  drachm  of  benzoin  gum  in  powder, 
one  drachm  nutmeg  oil,  six  drops  of  orange-blossom  tea, 
or  apple-blossoms  put  in  half  pint  of  rain-water  and 
boiled  down  to  one  teaspoonful  and  strained,  one  pint 
of  sherry  wine.  Bathe  the  face  morning  and  night; 
will  remove  all  flesh-worms  and  freckels,  and  give  a 
beautiful  complexion.  Or,  put  one  ounce  powdered 
gum  of  benzoin  in  pint  of  whisky;  to  use,  put  in  water 
in  wash-bowl  till  it  is  milky,  allowing  it  to  dry  without 
wiping.  This  is  perfectly  harmless. 

TO  CLEAR  A TANNED  SKIN. 

Wash  with  a solution  of  carbonate  of  soda  and  a lit- 
tle lemon  juice;  then  with  Fuller’s  earth  water,  or  the 
juice  of  unripe  grapes. 

OIL  TO  MAKE  THE  HAIR  CURL. 

Olive  oil,  one  pound;  oil  of  organum,  one  drachm; 
oil  rosemary,  one  and  one-half  drachms. 

WRINKLES  IN  THE  SKIN. 

White  wax,  one  ounce;  strained  honey,  two  ounces; 
juice  of  lily-bulbs,  two  ounces.  The  foregoing  melted 
and  stirred  together  will  remove  wrinkles. 


246 


THE  EVERYDAY  COOK-BOOK. 


PEARL  WATER  FOR  THE  PACE. 

Put  half  a pound  best  Windsor  soap  scraped  fine  into 
half  a gallon  of  boiling  water;  stir  it  well  until  it  cools; 
add  a pint  of  spirits  of  wine  and  half  an  ounce  of  oil 
of  rosemary;  stir  well.  This  is  a good  cosmetique, 
and  will  remove  freckles. 

PEARL  DENTIFRICE. 

Prepared  chalk,  one-half  pound;  powdered  myrrh, 
two  ounces;  camphor,  two  drachms;  orris-root  powderd, 
two  ounces.  Moisten  the  camphor  with  alcohol  and 
mix  all  well  together. 

WASH  FOR  A BLOTHED  PACE. 

Rose-water,  three  ounces;  sulphate  of  zinc,  one 
drachm;  mix.  Wet  the  face  with  it,  gently  dry  it  and 
then  touch  it  over  with  cold  cream,  which  also  gently 
dry  oflf. 

PACE  POWDER. 

Take  of  wheat  starch,  one  pound;  powdered  orris- 
root,  three  ounces;  oil  of  lemon,  thirty  drops;  oil  of 
bergamot,  oil  of  cloves,  each  fifteen  drops.  Rub  thor- 
oughly together. 


BANDOLINE. 

To  one  quart  of  rose-water  add  an  ounce  and  a half 
of  gum  tragacanth;  let  it  stand  forty-eight  hours,  fre- 
quently straining  it,  then  strain  through  a coarse  linen 
cloth;  let  it  stand  two  days  and  again  strain;  add  to  it 
a drachm  of  oil  of  roses;  used  by  ladies  dressing  their 
hair,  to  make  it  lie  in  any  position. 


THE  EVERYDAY  COOK-BOOK. 


24? 


A GOOD  WASH  FOR  THE  HAIR. 

One  pennyworth  of  borax,  half  a pint  of  olive-oil, 
one  pint  of  boiling  water. 

Mode:  Pour  boiling  water  over  the  borax  and  oil; 
let  it  cool ; then  put  the  mixture  into  a bottle.  Shake 
it  before  using,  and  apply  it  with  a flannel.  Camphor 
and  borax,  dissolved  in  boiling  water  and  left  to  cool, 
make  a very  good  wash  for  the  hair;  as  also  does  rose- 
mary water  mixed  with  a little  borax.  After  using 
any  of  these  washes,  when  the  hair  become^  thoroughly 
dry,  a little  pomatum  or  oil  should  be  rubbed  in,  to 
make  it  smooth  and  glossy. 


THE  EVERYDAY  QOOK-BOOE, 


m 


MISCELLANEOUS. 


AN  EXCELLENT  HARD  SOAR. 

four  twelve  quarts  soft  boiling  water  on  two  and 
t^e  half  pounds  of  unslacked  lime;  dissolve  five  pounds 
sal  soda  in  twelve  quarts  soft  hot  water ; then  mix  and 
let  them  remain  from  twelve  to  twenty-four  hours. 
Pour  off  all  the  clear  fluid,  being  careful  not  to  allow 
any  of  the  sediment  to  run  off ; boil  three  and  one-half 
pounds  clean  grease  and  three  or  four  ounces  of  rosin 
in  the  above  lye  till  the  grease  disappears , pour  into 
a box  and  let  it  stand  a day  to  stiffen  and  then  cut  in 
bars.  It  is  well  to  put  the  lime  in  all  the  water  and 
then  add  the  soda.  After  pouring  off  the  fluid,  add 
two  or  three  gallons  of  water  and  let  it  stand  with  the 
lime  and  soda  dregs  a day  or  two.  This  makes  an 
excellent  washing  fluid  to  boil  or  soak  the  clothes  in, 
with  one  pint  in  a boiler  of  water. 

TO  WASH  WOOLEN  BLANKETS. 

Dissolve  soap  enough  to  make  a good  soda  in  boiling 
water,  add  a tablespoon  of  aqua  ammonia  ; when  scald- 
ing hot,  turn  over  your  blankets.  If  convenient,  use  a 
pounder,  or  any  way  to  work  thoroughly  through  ^the 
suds  without  rubbing  on  a board.  Rinse  well  in  hot 
water.  There  is  usually  soap  enough  from  the  first 
suds  to  make  the  second  soft : if  not,  add  a little  soap 
and  ammonia;  and  after  being  put  through  the  wringer 
let  two  persons,  standing  opposite  pull  them  into  shape; 


TEE  EVERY  DAY  COOK-BOOK  249 

dry  in  the  sun.  White  flannels  may  be  washed  in  the 
same  way  without  shrinking.  Calicoes  and  other  col- 
ored fabrics  can,  before  washing,  be  advantageously 
soaked  for  a time  in  a pail  of  water  to  which  a spoon- 
ful of  ox  gall  has  been  added.  It  helps  to  keep  the 
color.  A teacup  of  lye  to  a pail  of  water  will  improve 
the  color  of  black  goods  when  necessary  to  wash  them, 
and  vinegar  in  the  rinsing  water  of  pink  or  green  will 
brighten  those  colors,  as  will  soda  for  purple  and  blue. 

FOR  CLOTHES  THAT  FADE. 

One  ounce  sugar  of  lead  in  a pail  of  rain  water.  Soak 
over  night. 

LAMP  WICKS. 

To  insure  a good  light,  wicks  must  be  changed  often, 
as  they  soon  become  clogged,  and  do  not  permit  the 
fresh  passage  of  the  oil.  Soaking  wicks  in  vinegar 
twenty-four  hours  before  placing  in  the  lamp  insures  a 
clear  flame. 

TO  MAKE  OLD  CRAPE  LOOK  NEARLY 
EQUAL  TO  NEW.  . 

Place  a little  water  in  a teakettle,  and  let  it  boil  until 
there  is  plenty  of  steam  from  the  spout;  then  holding 
the  crape  in  both  hands,  pass  it  to  and  fro  several  times 
through  the  steam,  and  it  will  be  clean  ami  nearly 
equal  to  new. 

A CEMENT  FOR  STOVES. 

If  the  stove  is  cracked,  a good  cement  is  ma(>e  for  it 
as  follows:  Wood  ashes  and  salt  in  equal  prop  >rtions, 
reduce  to  a paste  with  cold  water,  and  fill  in  th<  cracks 
when  the  stove  is  cool.  It  will  soon  harden. 


sso 


THE  EVERYDAY  COOKBOOK. 


TO  CLEAN  KID  GLOVES. 

E.ub  with  very  slightly  damp  bread-crumbs.  If  not 
effectual,  scrape  upon  them  dry  Fuller’s  earth  or  French 
chalk,  when  on  the  hands,  rub  them  quickly  together 
m all  directions.  Do  this  several  times.  Or  put  gloves 
of  a light  color  on  the  hands  and  wash  the  hands  in  a 
basin  of  spirits  of  hartshorn.  Some  gloves  may  be 
washed  in  a strong  lather  made  of  soft  soap  and  warm 
water  or  milk;  or  wash  with  rice  pulp;  or  sponge  them 
well  with  turpentine,  and  hang  them  in  a warm  place  or 
where  there  is  a current  of  air,  and  the  smell  of  turpen- 
tine will  be  removed. 

STAINS  AND  SPOTS. 

Children’s  clothes,  table  linens,  towels,  etc.,  should  be 
thoroughly  examined  before  wetting,  as  soap-suds, 
washing-fluids,  etc.,  will  fix  almost  any  stain  past 
removal.  Many  stains  will  pass  away  by  being  simply 
washed  in  pure  soft  water;  or  alcohol  will  remove, 
before  the  articles  have  been  in  soap-suds,  many  stains. 
Ironmold,  mildew,  or  almost  any  similar  spot,  can  be 
taken  out  by  dipping  in  diluted  citric  acid;  then  cover 
them  with  salt,  and  lay  in  the  bright  sun  until  the  stains 
disappear.  If  of  long  standing,  it  may  be  necessary  to 
repeat  the  wetting  and  the  sunlight.  Be  careful  to  rinse 
in  several  waters  as  soon  as  the  stain  is  no  longer  visible. 
Ink,  fruit,  wine,  and  mildewstains  must  first  be  washed 
in  clear,  cold  water,  removing  as  much  of  the  spots  as 
<an  be,  then  mix  one  teaspoonful  of  oxalic  acid  and  half 
i pint  of  rain  water.  Dip  the  stain  in  this,  and  wipe  off 
m clear  water.  Wash  at  once,  if  a fabric  that  will  bear 
washing.  A tablespoonful  of  white-currant  juice,  if  any 
can  be  had,  is  better  than  lemon.  This  preparation  may 
be  used  on  the  most  delicate  articles  without  injury. 


THE  EVERYDAY  COOK-BOOK. 


m 


Sh  ike  it  up  before  using  it,  and  be  careful  and  put  out 
of  the  reach  of  meddlers  or  little  folks,  as  it  is  poisonous. 

TO  BEMOVE  GBEASE  SPOTS. 

An  excellent  mixture  to  remove  grease  spots  from 
boys’  and  men’s  clothing  particularly,  is  made  of  four 
parts  alcohol  to  one  part  of  ammonia  and  about  half  as 
much  ether  as  ammonia.  Apply  the  liquid  to  the 
grease  spot,  and  then  rub  diligently  with  a sponge  and 
clear  water.  The  chemistry  of  the  operation  seems  to 
be  that  the.  alcohol  and  ether  dissolve  the  grease,  and 
the  ammonia  forms  a soap  with  it  which  is  washed  out 
with  the  water.  The  result  is  much  more  satisfactory 
than  when  something  is  used  which  only  seems  to 
spread  the  spot  and  make  it  fainter,  but  docs  not  actu- 
ally remove  it.  If  oil  is  spilled  on  the  carpet,  and  you 
immediately  scatter  corn  meal  over  it,  the  oil  will  be 
absorbed  by  it.  Oil  may  also  be  removed  from  carpets 
on  which  you  do  not  dare  to  put  ether  and  ammonia, 
by  laying  thick  blotting  paper  over  it  and  pressing  a 
hot  flat-iron  on  it.  Repeat  the  operation  several  times, 
using  a clean  paper  each  time. 

STAINS  ON  MARBLE. 

Iron-rust  stains  on  marble  can  usually  be  removed 
by  rubbing  with  lemon  juice.  Almost  all  other  stains 
may  be  taken  off  by  mixing  one  ounce  of  finely  pow- 
dered chalk,  one  of  pummice  stone,  and  two  ounces  of 
common  soda.  Sift  these  together  through  a fine  sieve 
and  mix  with  water.  When  thoroughly  mixed,  rub 
this  mixture  over  the  stains  faithfully  and  the  stains 
will  disappear.  Wash  the  marble  after  this  with  soap 
and  water,  dry  and  polish  with  a chamoi^  skin,  and 
the  marble  will  look  like  new. 

A ^hin  coating  of  three  parts  lard  melted  with  one 
part  Tosin  applied  to  stoves  and  grates  W’U  prevent 
their  t'^^ting  in  summera 


852 


THE  EVERTBAY COOKBOOK. 


PAINT  OR  VARNISH. 

Oil  of  turpentine  or  benzine  will  remove  spots  of 
paint,  varnish,  or  pitch  from  white  or  colored  cotton  or 
woolen  goods.  After  using  it  they  should  be  washed 
in  soap-suds. 

TO  REMOVE  INK  PROM  CARPETS. 

When  freshly  spilled,  ink  can  be  removed  from 
carpets  by  rvetting  in  milk.  Take  cotton  batting  and 
soak  up  all  of  the  ink  it  will  receive,  being  careful  not 
to  let  it  spread.  Then  take  fresh  cotton,  wet  it  in 
milk,  and  sop  it  up  carefully.  Repeat  this  operation, 
changing  cotton  and  milk  each  time.  After  most  of 
the  ink  has  been  taken  up  in  this  way,  with  fresh  cot- 
ton and  clean,  rub  the  spot.  Continue  till  all  disap- 
pears; then  wash  the  spot  in  clean  warm  water  and  a lit- 
tle soap;  rinse  in  clean  water,  and  rub  till  dry.  If  the 
ink  is  dried  in,  we  know  of  no  way  that  will  not  take  the 
color  from  the  carpet  as  well  as  the  ink,  unles  the  ink  is 
on  a white  spot.  In  that  case  salts  of  lemon,  or  sof  tsoap, 
starch,  and  lemon-juice  will  remove  the  ink  as  easily  as 
if  on  cotton. 

TO  REMOVE  INK  PROM  PAPER. 

Put  one  pound  of  chloride  of  lime  to  four  quarts  of 
water.  Shake  well  together  and  let  stand  twenty-four 
hours;  then  strain  through  a clean  cotton  cloth.  Add 
one  teaspoonful  of  acetic  acid  to  one  ounce  of  this  pre- 
pared lime  water,  and  apply  to  the  blot,  and  the  ink  will 
disappear.  Absorb  the  moisture  with  blotting  paper. 
The  remainder  may  be  bottled,  closely  corked,  and  set 
aside  for  future  use. 


An  occasional  feed  of  hard-boiled  eggs  made  fine  and 
mixed  with  cracker-crumbs  is  good  for  canary  birds. 
Feed  a couple  of  thimblefuls  at  a time. 


THE  EVERYDAY  COOK-BOOK. 


253 


INK  ON  ROSEWOOD  OR  MAHOGANY. 

If  ink  has  been  unfortunately  spilled  on  mahogany, 
rosewood,  or  black  walnut  furniture,  put  half  a dozen 
drops  of  spirits  of  nitre  into  a spoonful  of  water,  and 
touch  the  stain  with  a featherwet  ip  this;  as  soon  as  the 
ink  disappears,  rub  the  place  immediately  with  a cloth 
ready  wet  in  cold  water,  or  the  nitre  will  leave  a white 
spot  very  difficult  to  remove.  If  after  washing  off  the 
nitre  the  ink  spot  still  lingers,  make  the  mixture  a little 
stronger  and.  'use  the  second  time,  and  never  forget  to 
wash  it  off  at  once, 

COAL  FIRE. 

If  your  coal  fire  is  low,  throw  on  a tablespoon  of 
salt,  and  it  will  help  it  very  much. 

POLISH  FOR  BRIGHT  STOVES  AND  STEEL 
ARTICLES. 

One  tablespoonful  of  turpentine;  one  tablespoonful 
^f  sweet  oil;  emery  powder.  Mix  the  turpentine  and 
sweet  oil  together,  stirring  in  sufficient  emery  powder 
to  make  the  mixture  of  the  thickness  of  cream.  Put  it 
on  the  article  with  a piece  of  soft  flannel,  rub  off 
quickly  with  another  piece,  then  polish  with  a little 
emery  powder  and  clean  leather. 

TO  PREVENT  PUMPS  PROM  FREEZING. 

Take  out  the  lower  valve  in  the  fall,  and  drive  a tack 
under  it,  projecting  in  such  a way  that  it  cannot  quite 
close.  The  water  will  then  leak  into  the  well  or  cis- 
tern, while  the  working  qualities  of  the  pump  will  not 
be  damaged. 

To  keep  starch  from  sticking  to  irons  rub  the  irons 
with  a little  piece  of  wax  or  sperm. 


254  THE  EVERTDAT  COOK-BOOK. 

TO  KEEP  OFF  MOSQUITOES. 

Rub  exposed  parts  with  kerosene.  The  odor  is  not 
noticed  after  .a  few  minutes,  and  children  especially  are 
much  relieved  by  its  use. 

TO  BRIGHTEN  GILT  FRAMES- 

Take  sufficient  flour  of  sulphur  to  give  a golden 
tinge  to  about  one  and  one-half  piats  of  water,  and  in 
this  boil  four  or  five  bruised  onions  or  g’SrJi?,  .iwhich 
will  answer  the  same  purpose.  Strain  off  the  liquid, 
and  with  it,  when  cold,  wash,  with  a soft  brush,  any 
gilding  which  requires  restoring;  and  when  dry  it  will 
come  out  as  bright  as  new  work. 

TO  MAKE  HENS  LAY  IN  WINTER. 

Keep  them  warm ; keep  corn  constantly  by  them,  but 
do  not  feed  it  to  them.  Feed  them  with  meat  scraps 
when  lard  or  tallow  has  been  tried,  or  fresh  meat. 
Some  chop  green  peppers  finely,  or  mix  Cayenne  pep- 
per with  corn  meal  to  feed  them.  Let  them  have  a 
frequent  taste  of  green  food,  a little  gravel  and  lime, 
or  clam-shells. 

TO  PRESERVE  STEEL  PENS. 

Steel  pens  are  destroyed  by  corrosion  from  acid  in 
the  ink.  Put  in  the  ink  some  nails  or  old  steel  pens, 
and  the  acid  will  exhaust  itself  on  them,  and  the  pens 
in  use  will  not  corrode. 

MICE. 

Pumpkin  seeds  are  very  attractive  to  mice,  and  traps 
baited  with  them  will  soon  destroy  this  little  uest. 


TEE  EVERYDAY  COOK-BOOK. 


255 


CAMPHOR 

Placed  in  trunks  or  drawers  will  prevent  mice  from  do- 
ing them  injury. 

TO  CLEAN  COMBS. 

If  it  can  be  avoided,  never  wash  combs,  as  the  water 
often  makes  the  teeth  split,  and  the  tortoiseshell  or 
horn  6f  which  they  are  made,  rough.  Small  brushes, 
manufactured  purposely  for  cleaning  combs,  may  be 
purchased  at  a trifling  cost;  with  this  the  comb  should 
be  well  brushed,  and  afterward  wiped  with  a cloth  or 
towel. 

FOR  CLEANING  INK  SPOTS. 

Ink-spots  on  the  fingers  may  be  instantly  removed  by 
a little  ammonia.  Rinse  the  hands  after  washing  in  clear 
water.  A little  ammonia  in  a few  teaspoonfuls  of  al- 
cohol is  excellent  to  sponge  silk  dresses  that  have  grown 
“shiny”  or  rusty,  as  well  as  to  take  out  spots.  A silk, 
particularly  a black,  becomes  almost  like  new  when  so 
sponged. 

FOR  CLEANING  JEWELRY. 

For  cleaning  jewelry  there  is  nothing  better  than 
ammonia  and  water.  If  very  dull  and  dirty,  rub  a lit- 
tle soap  on  a soft  brush  and  brush  them  in  this  wash, 
rinse*  in  cold  water,  dry  first  in  an  old  handkerchief, 
and  ttien  rub  with  buck  or  chamois  skin.  Their  fresh- 
ness and  brilliancy  when  thus  cleaned  cannot  be  sur- 
passed by  any  compound  used  by  jewelers. 

FOR  WASHING  SILVER  AND  SILVER- 
WARE. 

For  washing  silver,  put  half  a teaspoonful  ammonia 
int®  the  suds;  have  the  water  hot;  wash  qu’ckly,  using 
a small  brush,  rinse  in  hot  water,  and  dry  witk  a clean 


250 


TEE  EVERY  DAY  COOR-BOQK. 


linen  towel;  then  rub  very  dry  with  a clean  chamois 
skin.  Washed  in  this  manner,  silver  becomes  very 
brilliant,  requires  no  polishing  with  any  of  the  powders 
or  whiting  usually  employed,  and  does  not  wear  out. 
Silver-plate,  jewelry  and  door-plates  can  be  beautifully 
cleaned  and  made  to  look  like  new  by  dropping  a soft 
cloth  or  chamois  skin  into  a weak  preparation  of  ammo- 
nia-water, and  rubbing  the  articles  with  it.  Put  half  a 
teaspoonful  into  clear  water  to  wash  tumblers  or  glass 
of  anykind,  rinse  and  dry  well,  and  they  will  be  beam 
tifully  clear. 

FOR  WASHING  GLASS  AND  GLASSWARE 

For  washing  windows,  looking-glasses,  etc.,  a littl« 
ammonia  in  the  water  saves  much  labor,  aside  from 
giving  a better  polish  than  anything  else;  and  for  gen- 
eral house-cleaning  it  removes  dirt,  smoke  and  grease 
most  effectually. 

INSECTS  AND  VERMIN. 

Dissolve  two  pounds  of  alum  in  three  or  four  quarts 
of  water.  Let  it  remain  over  night,  till  all  the  alum  is 
dissolved.  Then,  with  a brush,  apply,  boiling  hot,  to 
every  joint  or  crevice  in  the  closet  or  shelves  where 
Croton  bugs,  ants,  cockroaches,  etc.,  intrude;  also  to 
the  joints  and  crevices  of  bedsteads,  as  bed  bugs  dislike 
it  as  much  as  Croton  bugs,  roaches  or  ants.  Brush  all 
the  cracks  in  the  floor  and  mop-boards.  Keep  it  boiling 
hot  while  using. 

To  keep  woolens  and  furs  from  moths,  two  things  are 
to  be  observed — first,  to  see  that  none  are  in  the  arti- 
cles when  they  are  put  away;  and  second,  to  put  them 
where  the  parent  moth  cannot  enter.  Tin  cases,  sol- 
dered tight,  whiskey  barrels  headed  so  that  not  even  a 
liquid  can  get  in  or  out,  have  been  used  to  keep  out 
moths.  A piece  of  strong  brown  paper  with  not  a hole 


TEE  EVERYDAY  COOK-BOOK. 


2^7 


through  which  even  a large  pin  can  enter,  is  just  as 
good.  Put  the  articles  in  a close  box  and  cover  every 
joint  with  paper,  or  resort  to  whatever  will  be  a com- 
plete covering.  A wrapper  of  common  cotton  cloth,  so 
put  around  and  secured,  is  often  used.  ^ Wherever  a 
knitting  needle  will  pass  the  parent  moth  can  enter. 
Carefully  exclude  the  insect  and  the  articles  will  be  safe. 

MOTHS  IN  CARPETS. 

Persons  troubled  with  carpet  moths  may  get  rid  of 
them  by  scrubbing  the  floor  with  strong  hot  salt  and 
water  before  laying  the  carpet,  and  sprinkling  the  car- 
pet with  salt  once  a week  before  sweeping. 

SMOOTH  SAD-IRONS. 

To  have  your  sad-irons  clean  and  smooth  rub  them 
first  with  a piece  of  wax  tied  in  a cloth,  and  afterwards 
scour  them  on  a paper  or  thick  cloth  strewn  with  coarse 
salt. 

TO  SWEETEN  MEAT. 

A little  charcoal  thrown  into  the  pot  will  sweeten 
meat  that  is  a little  old.  Not  if  it  is  anyway  tainted — 
it  is  then  not  fit  to  eat — but  only  if  kept  a little  longer 
than  makes  it  quite  fresh. 

STOVE  POLISH. 

Stove  lustre,  when  mixed  with  turpentine  and  applied 
in  the  usual  manner,  is  blacker,  more  glossy  and  more 
durable  then  when  mixed  with  any  other  liquid.  The 
turpentine  prevents  rust,  and  when  put  on  an  old  rusty 
stove  will  make  it  look  as  well  as  new, 


m 


THE  EVEBYBAT  COOK-BOOK. 


CLEANING  WHITE  PAINT. 

Spirits  of  ammonia,  used  in  sufficient  quantity  to  soften 
the  water,  and  ordinary  hard  soap,  will  make  the  paint 
look  white  and  clean  with  half  the  effort  of  any  other 
method  I ever  have  tried.  Care  should  be  taken  not  to 
have  too  much  ammonia,  or  the  paint  will  be  injured. 

TO  CLEANSE  THE  INSIDE  OP  JARS. 

This  can  be  done  in  a few  minutes  by  filling  the  jars 
with  hot  water  (it  need  not  be  scalding  hot),  and  then 
stirring  in  a teaspoonful  or  more  of  baking  soda.  Shake 
well,  then  empty  the  jar  at  once,  and  if  any  of  the  for- 
mer odor  remains  about  it,  fill  again  with  water  and 
soda;  shake  well,  and  rinse  out  in  cold  water. 

FURNITURE  POLISH. 

Equal  proportions  of  linseed  oil,  turpentine,  vinegar, 
and  spirits  of  wine. 

Mode:  When  used,  shake  the  mixture  well,  and 
rub  on  the  furniture  with  a piece  of  linen  rag,  and  polish 
with  a clean  duster.  Vinegar  and  oil,  rubbed  in  with 
flannel,  and  the  furniture  rubbed  with  a clean  duster, 
produce  a very  good  polish. 


Squeaking  doors  ought  to  have  the  hinges  oiled  by  a 
feather  dipped  in  some  linseed  oil. 


A soft  cloth,  wetted  in  alcohol,  is  excellent  to  wipe 
off  French  plate-glass  and  mirrors. 


A red-hot  poker  will  soften  old  putty  so  that  it  can  be 
easily  removed. 


THE  EVERTDA  Y COOK-BOOK. 


25D 


TO  REMOVE  STAINS  FROM  MATRESSES. 

Make  a thick  paste  by  wetting  starch  with  cold  water. 
Spread  this  on  the  stain,  first  putting  the  mattress  in 
the  sun;  rub  this  off  after  an  hour  or  so,  and  if  the 
ticking  is  not  clean  try  the  process  again. 

KALSOMINING. 

For  plain  white  use  one  pound  white  glue,  twenty 
pounds  English  whiting;  dissolve  glue  by  boiling  in 
about  three  pints  of  water;  dissolve  whiting  with  hot 
water;  make  the  consistency  of  thick  batter;  then  add 
glue  and  one  cup  soft  soap.  Dissolve  a piece  of  alum 
the  size  of  a hen’s  egg,  add  and  mix  the  whole  thor- 
oughly. Let  it  cool  before  using.  If  too  thick  to 
spread  nicely  add  more  water  till  it  spreads  easily. 
For  blue  tints  add  five  cents’  worth  of  Prussian  blue, 
and  a little  Venetian  red  for  lavender.  For  peach- 
blow  use  red  in  white  alone.  The  above  quantity  is 
enough  to  cover  four  ceilings,  sixteen  feet  square,  with 
two  coats,  and  will  not  rub  off  as  the  whitewash  does 
made  of  lime. 

PAPERING  WHITEWASHED  WALLS. 

There  are  many  ways,  but  we  mention  those  that  are 
the  most  reliable.  Take  a perfectly  clean  broom,  and 
wet  the  walls  over  with  clean  water;  then  with  a small, 
sharp  hoe  or  scraper  scrape  off  all  the  old  whitewash 
you  can.  Then  cut  your  paper  of  the  right  length, 
and,  when  you  are  all  ready  to  put  on  the  paper,  wet 
the  wall  with  strong  vinegar.  Another  way  is  to  make 
very  thin  paste  by  dissolving  one  pound  of  white  glue 
in  five  quarts  of  warm  water,  and  wash  the  walls  with 
it  before  putting  on  the  paper.  A very  good  way  is  to 
apply  the  paste  to  both  paper  and  wall.  The  paste  may 
be  made  from  either  wheat  or  rye  flour,  but  must  be 
put  on  warm. 


S60 


TEE  EVERYDAY  COOEBOOK. 


HOW  TO  CLEAN  CORSETS. 

Take  out  the  steels  at  front  and  sides,  then  scrub  thor- 
oughly with  tepid  or  cold  lather  of  white  castile  soap, 
using  a very  small  scrubbing  brush.  Do  not  lay  them 
in  water.  When  quite  clean  let  cold  water  run  on  them 
freely  from  the  spigot  to  rinse  out  the  soap  thoroughly. 
Dry  without  ironing  (after  pulling  lengthwise  until  they 
are  straight  and  shapely)  in  a cool  place. 

TO  CLEAN  HAIRBRUSHES. 

Do  not  use  soap,  but  put  a tablespopnf ul  of  harts 
horn  into  the  water,  having  it  only  tepid,  and  dip  up 
and  down  until  clean;  then  dry  with  the  brushes  down, 
and  they  will  be  like  new  ones.  If  you  do  not  have 
ammonia  use  soda;  a teaspoonful  dissolved  in  the  water 
will  do  very  well. 

HOW  TO  WASH  FLANNELS 

There  are  many  conflicting  theories  in  regard  to 
the  proper  way  to  wash  flannels,  but  I am  convinced 
from  careful  observation,  that  the  true  way  is  to  wash 
them  in  water  in  which  you  can  comfortably  bear 
your  hand.  Make  suds  before  putting  the  flannels  in, 
and  do  not  rub  soap  on  the  flannel.  I make  it  a rule 
to  have  only  one  piece  of  flannel  put  in  the  tub 
at  a time.  Wash  in  two  suds  if  much  soiled;  then  rinse 
thoroughly  in  clean,  weak  suds,  wring  and  hang  up; 
but  do  not  take  flannels  out  of  warm  water  and  hang 
out  in  a freezing  air,  as  that  certainly  tends  to  shrink 
them.  It  is  better  to  dry  them  in  the  house,  unless  the  sun 
shines.  In  washing  worsted  goods,  such  as  men’s  panta- 
loons, pursue  the  same  course,  only  do  not  wring  them,  but 
hang  them  up  and  let  them  drain;  while  a little  damp  bring 
in  and  press  smoothly  with  as  hot  an  iron  as  you  can  use 


THE  EVERYDAY  COOK  BOOK.  261 

without  scorching  the  goods.  The  reason  for  not 
wringing  them  is  to  prevent  wrinkles. 

CLEANING  LACE. 

Cream-colored  Spanish  lace  can  be  cleaned  and  made 
to  look  like  new  by  rubbing  it  in  dry  flour ; rub  as  it* 
you  were  washing  in  water.  Thcii.11:ake  it  outdoors  and 
shake  all  the  flour  out;  if  not  perfectly  clean,  repeat  the 
rubbing  in  a little  more  clean  flour.  The  flour  must 
be  very  thoroughly  shaken  from  the  lace,  or  the  result 
will  be  far  from  satisfactory.  White  knitted  hoods  can 
be  cleaned  in  this  way;  babies’  socks  also,  if  only 
slightly  soiled. 

NEW  KETTLES. 

The  best  way  to  prepare  a new  iron  kettle  for  use  is 
to  fill  it  with  clean  potato  peelings,  boil  them  for  an 
hour  or  more,  then  wash  the  kettle  with  hot  water ; 
wipe  it  dry,  and  rub  it  with  a little  lard;  repeat  the 
rubbing  for  half  a dozen  times  after  using.  In  this 
way  you  will  prevent  rust  and  all  the  annoyances  liable 
to  occur  in  the  use  of  a new  kettle. 

TO  KEEP  FLIES  OFF  GILT  FRAMES. 

Boil  three  or  four  onions  in  a pint  of  water  and  ap- 
ply with  a soft  brush. 

TO  PREVENT  KNIVES  FROM  RUSTING. 

In  laying  aside  knives,  or  other  steel  implements, 
they  should  be  slightly  oiled  and  wrapped  in  tissue 
paper  to  prevent  their  rusting.  A salty  atmosphere 

V ill  in  a siiori  thne  quite  ruin  all  steel  articles,  uuiebd 
some  such  precaution  is  takeft. 


262 


THE  EVERYDAY  COOKBOOK. 


CEUE.MT  FOR  GLASSWARE. 

For  rnendin.^  valaaMe  glass  objects,  which  would  be 
disfigured  by  coaiaion  cement,  chrome  cement  may  be 
used.  This  is  a mix(;ure  of  five  parts  of  gelatine  to  one 
of  a solution  of  acid  chromate  of  lime.  The  broken 
edges  are  covered  with  this,  pressed  together  and  ex- 
posed to  sunlight,  the  effect  of  the  latter  being  to 
render  the  compound  insoluble  even  in  boiling  water. 

WATERPROOF  PAPER. 

Excellent  paper  for  packing  may  be  made  of  old 
newspapers ; the  tougher  the  paper  of  course  the  bet- 
ter. A mixture  is  made  of  copal  varnish,  boiled  linseed 
oil  and  turpentine,  in  equal  parts.  It  is  painted  on 
the  paper  with  a flat  varnish  brush  an  inch  and  a half 
wide,  and  the  sheets  are  laid  out  to  dry  for  a few  min- 
utes. This  paper  has  been  very  successfully  used  for 
packing  plants  for  sending  long  distances,  and  is  prob- 
ably equal  to  the  paper  commonly  used  by  nursery- 
men. 

RECIPE  FOR  VIOLET  INK. 

To  make  one  gallon,  take  one  ounce  of  violet  analine; 
dissolve  it  in  one  gill  of  hot  alcohol.  Stir  it  a few 
moments.  When  thoroughly  dissolved,  add  one  gallon 
of  boiling  water,  and  the  ink  is  made.  As  the  analine 
colors  vary  a great  deal  in  quality,  the  amount  of  dilu- 
tion must  vary  with  the  sample  used  and  the  shade  de- 
termined by  trial. 

'I 

PERSPIRATION. 

The  unpleasant  odor  produced  by  perspiration  is  fre- 
quently the  source  of  vexation  to  persons  who  are  sub- 
ject to  it.  Nothing  is  simpler  than  to  remove  this 
odor  njucb  more  effectually  than  by  the  application  of 


THE  EVERYDAY  COOK-BOOK. 


such  costly  unguents  and  perfumes  as  are  in  use.  It 
is  only  necessary  to  procure  some  of  the  compound 
spirits  of  ammonia,  and  place  about  two  tablespoonfuls 
in  a basin  of  water.  Washing  the  face,  hands  and 
arms  with  this  leaves  the  skin  as  clean,  sweet  and  fresh 
as  one  could  wish.  The  wash  is  perfectly  harmless 
and  very  cheap.  It  is  recommended  on  the  authority 
of  an  experienced  physician. 

RENEWING  OLD  KID  GLOVES. 

Make  a thick  mucilage  by  boiling  a handful  of  flax- 
seed ; add  a little  dissolved  toilet  soap ; then,  when  the 
mixture  cools,  put  the  glove  on  the  hands  and  rub 
them  with  a piece  of  white  flannel  v ^t  with  tue  mix- 
ture. Do  not  wet  the  gloves  through. 

COLOGNE  WATER. 

Take  a pint  of  alcohol  and  put  in  thirty  drops  of  or 
of  lemon,  thirty  of  bergamot,  and  haif  a gill  of  water. 
If  musk  or  lavender  is  desired,  add  the  same  quantity 
of  each.  The  oils  should  be  put  in  the  alcohol  and 
shaken  well  before  the  water  is  added.  Bottle  it  for 
use. 

TO  CLEANSE  A SPONGE. 

By  rubbing  a fresh  lemon  thoroughly  into  a soured 
sponge  and  rinsing  it  several  times  in  lukewsrm  water, 
it  will  become  as  sweet  as  when  new. 

ICY  WINDOWS. 

Windows  may  be  kept  free  from  ice  and  polished  by 
rubbing  the  glass  with  a sponge  dipped  in  alcohol. 

To  remove  blood  stains  from  cloth,  saturate  with 
kerosenoj  and  after  standing  a little,  wash  in  warm 


264 


THE  EVERYDAY  COOK-BOOK. 


CAMPHOR  ICE. 

One  ounce  of  lard,  one  ounce  of  spermaceti,  one 
ounce  of  camphor,  one  ounce  of  almond  oil,  one-half 
cake  of  white  wax;  melt  and  turn  into  molds. 

STARCH  POLISH. 

Take  one  ounce  of  spermaceti  and  one  ounce  of  white 
wax,  melt  and  run  it  into  a thin  cake  on  a plate.  A 
piece  the  size  of  a quarter  dollar  added  to  a quart  of 
prepared  starch  gives  a beautiful  lustre  to  the  clothes 
and  prevents  the  iron  from  sticking. 

TO  CLEAN  FEATHERS. 

Cover  the  feathers  with  a paste  made  of  pipe-clay 
and  water,  rubbing  them  one  way  only.  When  quite 
dry,  shake  off  all  the  powder  and  curl  with  a knife. 
Grebe  feathers  may  be  washed  with  white  soap  in  soft 
water. 

TO  TEST  NUTMEGS. 

To  test  nutmegs  prick  them  with  a pin,  and  if  they 
are  good  the  oil  will  instantly  spread  around  the  punct- 
ure. 

TO  CLEAN  MICA. 

Mica  in  stoves,  when  smoked,  is  readily  cleaned  by 
taking  it  out  and  thoroughly  washing  with  vinegar  a 
little  diluted.  If  the  black  does  not  come  off  at  once, 
let  it  soak  a little. 

TO  SOFTEN  HARD  WATER. 

Add  half  a pound  of  the  best  quick  lime,  dissolved  in 
water  to  every  hundred  gallons.  Smaller  proportions 
may  be  more  conveniently  managed,  and  if  allowed  to 


fits  EVERYDAY  COOK  BOOK. 


Btand  a short  time  the  lime  will  have  united  with  the 
carbonate  of  lime  and  been  deposited  at  the  bottom  of 
the  receptacle.  Another  way  is  to  put  a gallon  of  lye 
into  a barrelful  of  water. 

TO  DESTROY  VERMIN  IN  THE  HAIR. 

Powdered  cevadilla  one  ounce,  powdered  staves-acre 
one  ounce,  powdered  panby  seed  one  ounce,  powdered 
tobacco  one  ounce.  Mix  well  and  rub  among  the  roots 
of  the  hair  thoroughly. 

TO  REMOVE  BRUISES  FROM  FURNITURE. 

W et  the  bruised  spot  with  warm  water.  Soak  a piece  of 
brown  paper  of  several  thicknesses  in  warm  water,  and 
lay  over  the  place.  Then  apply  a warm  flat-iron  until 
the  moisture  is  gone.  Repeat  the  process  if  needful, 
and  the  bruise  will  disappear. 

PEARL  SMELLING  SALTS. 

Powdered  3arbonate  of  ammonia,  one  ounce;  strong 
solution  of  ammonia,  half  a fluid  ounce;  oil  of  rose- 
mary, ten  drops ; oil  of  bergamot,  ten  drops.  Mix,  and 
while  moist  put  in  a wide  mouthed  bottle  which  is  to 
be  well  closed. 

POUNDED  GLASS. 

Pounded  glass,  mixed  with  dry  corn-meal,  and  placed 
within  the  reach  of  rats,  it  is  said,  will  banish  them 
from  the  premises ; or  sprinkle  Cayenne  pepper  in  their 
holes. 

POLISH  FOR  BOOTS. 

Take  of  ivory-black  and  treacle  each  four  ounces; 
sulphuric  acid,  one  ounce;  best  olive  oil,  two  spoon- 
fuls, best  white-wine  vinegar,  three  half  pints;  mix  the 
ivory-black  and  treacle  well  in  an  earthen  jar;  then 


m THE  EVERDAY  COOK-BOOR. 

add  the  sulphuric  acid,  continuing  to  stir  the  mixture; 
next  pour  in  the  oil,  and,  lastly,  add  the  vinegar,  stir- 
ring it  in  by  degrees  until  thoroughly  incorporated. 

TO  CLEAN  PLATE. 

Wash  the  plate  wdl  to  remove  all  grease,  in  a strong 
lather  of  common  yellow  soap  and  boiling  water,  and 
wipe  it  quite  dry ; then  mix  as  much  hartshorn  powder 
as  will  be  required,  into  a thick  paste,  with  cold  water 
or  spirits  of  wine ; smear  this  lightly  over  the  plate 
with  a piece  of  soft  rag,  and  leave  it  for  some  little 
time  to  dry.  When  perfectly  dry,  brush  it  off  quite 
clean  with  a soft  plate-bush,  and  polish  the  plate  with 
a dry  leather.  If  the  plate  be  very  dirty,  or  much 
tarnished,  spirits  of  wine  will  be  found  to  answer  bet- 
ter than  water  for  mixing  the  paste. 


TO  CLEAN  DECANTERS. 

Roll  up  in  small  pieces  some  soft  brown  or  blotting 
paper;  wet  them,  and  soap  them  well.  Put  them  into 
the  decanters  about  one-quarter  full  of  warm  water ; 
shake  them  well  for  a few  moments,  then  rinse  with 
clear  cold  water;  wipe  the  outsides  with  a nice  dry 
cloth,  put  the  decanters  to  drain,  and  when  dry  they 
will  be  almost  as  bright  as  new  ones. 


SPOTS  ON  TOWELS  AND  HOSIERY. 

Spots  on  towels  and  hosiery  will  disappear  with  little 
trouble  if  a little  ammonia  is  put  into  enough  water  to 
soak  the  articles,  and  they  are  left  in  it  an  hour  or  two 
before  washing ; and  if  a cupful  is  put  into  the  water  in 
which  white  clothes  are  soaked  the  night  before  wash- 
ing, the  ease  with  which  the  articles  can  be  washed, 
and  their  great  whiteness  and  clearness  when  dried  will 
be  very  gratifying.  Remembering  the  small  snm  paid 


fHB  EVERYDAY  COOK  BOOK.  26^ 

for  three  quarts  o£  ammonia  of  common  strength,  one 
can  easily  see  that  no  bleaching  preparation  can  be 
more  cheaply  obtained. 

No  articles  in  kitchen  use  are  so  likely  to  be  neg- 
lecied  and  abused  as  the  dish-cloths  and  dish  towels; 
and  in  washing  these,  ammonia,  if  properly  used,  is  a 
greater  comfort  than  anywhere  else.  Put  a b aspoon- 
ful  into  the  water  in  which  these  cloths  are,  or  should 
he  washed  every  day ; rub  soap  on  the  towels.  Put 
them  in  the  water;  let  them  stand  a half  hour  or  so, 
then  rub  them  out  thoroughly,  rinse  faithfully,  and  dry 
out-doors  in  clear  air  and  sun,  and  dish-cloths  and  tow- 
els need  never  look  gray  and  dingy — a perpetual  dis- 
comfort to  all  housekeepers. 

CROUP. 

Croup,  it  is  said,  can  be  cured  in  one  minute,  and 
the  remedy  is  simply  alum  and  sugar.  The  way  to 
accomplish  the  deed  is  to  take  a knife  or  grater,  and 
shave  off  in  small  particles  about  ja  teaspoonful  of 
alum ; then  mix  it  with  twice  its  amount  of  sugar,  to 
make  it  palatable,  and  administer  it  as  quickly  as  pos- 
sible. Almost  instantaneous  relief  will  follow. 


In  the  summer  season  it  is  not  an  uncommon  thing 
for  persons  going  into  the  woods  to  be  poisoned  by 
contact  with  dogwood,  ivy,  or  the  poisoned  oak.  The 
severe  itching  and  smarting  which  is  thus  produced 
may  be  relieved  by  first  washing  the  parts  with  a solu- 
tion of  saleratus,  two  teaspooufuls  to  the  pint  of  water, 
and  then  applying  cloths  wet  with  extract  of  hamam- 
mellis.  Take  a dose  of  Epsom  salts  internally  or  a 
double  Rochelle  powder. 


268 


THE  EVERYDAY  COOK  BOOK. 


CONVULSION  FITS. 

Convulsiou  fits  sometimes  follow  the  feverish  rest- 
lessness produced  by  these  causes;  in  which  case  a hot 
bath  should  be  - administered  without  delay,  and  the 
lower  parts  of  the  body  rubbed,  the  bath  being  as  hot 
as  it  can  be  without  scalding  the  tender  skin. 

BURNS  AND  SCALDS. 

A burn  or  scald  is  al  ways  painful ; but  the  pain  can 
be  instantly  relieved  by  the  use  of  bi-carbonate  of 
soda,  or  common  baking  soda  (saleratus).  Put  two 
tablespoonfuls  of  soda  in  a half  cup  of  water.  Wet  a 
piece  of  linen  cloth  in  the  solution  and  lay  it  on  the 
burn.  The  pain  will  disappear  as  if  by  magic.  If  the 
burn  is  so  deep  that  the  skin  has  peeled  off,  dredge  the 
dry  soda  directly  on  the  part  affected. 

CUTS. 

For  a slight  cut  there  is  nothing  better  to  control 
the  hemorrhage  than  common  unglazed  brown  wrap- 
ping paper,  such  as  is  used  by  marketmen  and  grocers; 
a piece  to  be  bound  over  the  wound. 

COLD  ON  THE  CHEST. 

A flannel  dipped  in  boiling  water,  and  sprinkled  with 
turpentine,  laid  on  the  chest  as  quickly  as  possible,  will 
relieve  the  most  severe  cold  or  hoarseness. 

BLEEDING  FROM  THE  NOSE. 

i Many  children,  especially  those  of  a sanguineous 
temperment,  are  subject  to  sudden  discharges  of  blood 
from  some  part  of  the  body;  and  as  all  such  fluxes  are 
in  ^T^n^ral  the  rrsuU*  of  an  effort  of  nature  to  relieve 
the  system  from  some  overload  or  pressure,  such  dis- 


THE  EVERYDAY  COOK-BOOK, 


269 


charges,  unless  in  excess,  and  when  likely  to  produce 
debility,  should  not  be  rashly  or  too  abruptly  checked. 
In  general,  these  discharges  are  confined  to  the  sum- 
mer or  spring  months  of  the  year,  and  follow  pains  in 
the  head,  a sense  of  drowsiness,  languor  or  oppression, 
and  as  such  symptoms  are  relieved  by  the  loss  of  blood, 
the  hemorrhage,  should,  to  a certain  extent,  be  en- 
couraged. When,  however,  the  bleeding  is  excessive, 
or  returns  too  frequently,  it  becomes  necessary  to  apply 
means  to  subdue  or  mitigate  the  amount.  For  this 
purpose  the  sudden  and  unexpected  application  of  cold 
is  itself  sufficient  in  most  cases  to  arrest  the  most  active 
hemorrhage.  A wet  towel  laid  suddenly  on  the  back, 
between  the  shoulders,  and  placing  the  child  in  a re- 
cumbent posture,  is  often  sufficient  to  effect  the  object; 
where,  however,  the  effusion  resists  such  simple  means, 
napkins  wrung  out  of  cold  water  must  be  laid  across 
the  forehead  and  nose,  the  hands  dipped  in  cold  water, 
and  a bottle  of  hot  water  applied  to  the  feet.  If,  in 
spite  of  these  means,  the  bleeding  continues,  a little 
fine  wool  or  a few  folds  of  lint,  tied  together  by  a piece 
of  thread,  must  be  pushed  up  the  nostril  from  which 
the  blood  flows;  to  act  as  a plug  and  pressure  on.  the 
bleeding  vessel.  When  the  discharge  has  entirely 
ceased,  the  plug  is  to  be  pulled  out  by  means  of  the 
thread.  To  prevent  a repetition  of  the  hemorrhage, 
the  body  should  be  sponged  every  morning  with  cold 
water,  and  the  child  put  under  a course  of  steel  wine, 
have  open-air  exercise,  and,  if  possible,  saltwater  bath- 
ing. For  children,  a key  suddenly  dropped  down  the 
back  between  the  skin  and  clothes,  will  often  immedi- 
ately arrest  a copious  bleeding. 

CHILBLAINS. 

Chilblains  are  most  irritating  to  children.  The  fol- 
lowing is  an  infallible  cure  for  unbroken  chilbiainp/ 


tilE  EVERYDAY  COOE  BOOk. 


Hydrochloric  acid,  diluted,  one-quarter  ounce;  hydro- 
cyanic  acid,  diluted,  30  drops;  camphor- water,  six 
ounces.  This  chilblain  lotion  cures  mild  cases  by  one 
application.  It  is  a deadly  poison,  and  should  be  ke})t 
under  lock  and  key.  A responsible  person  should 
apply  it  to  the  feet  of  children.  This  must  not  be  t^p- 
plied  to  broken  chilblains. 

TO  CURE  A STING  OF  BEE  OR  Vv  ASP. 

Mix  common  earth  with  water  to  about  the  consis- 
tency of  mud.  Apply  at  once. 

FOR  TOOTHACHE. 

Alum  reduced  to  an  impalpable  powder,  two 
dracijins;  nitrous  spirit  of  ether,  seven  drachms;  mix 
and  apply  to  the  tooth. 

CHOKING. 

A piece  of  food  lodged  in  the  throat  may  sometimes 
bo  pushed  down  with  the  finger,  or  removed  with  a 
hairpin  quickly  straitened  and  hooked  at  the  end,  or 
by  two  or  three  vigorous  blows  on  the  back  between 
the  shoulders. 


A very  excellent  carminative  ])owder  for  flatulant  in- 
fants may  be  kept  in  the  house,  and  employed  with  ad- 
vantage, whomever  the  child  i^  in  pain  or  griped,  by 
d napping  fi  ve  grains  of  oil  of  aniseenland  two  < f pepper- 
mint ou  hair  an  ounce  of  lump  sugar,  and  rubbing  it  in 
a mortar,  with  a drachm  of  maijfiiesia,  into  a fine  pow- 
der. A small  quintitv  of  this  may  be  given  in  a little 
wat^f  at  any  time,  and  always  with  benefit. 


THE  EVERYDAY  COOK  BOOK.  2fi 

CUBEB  BERRIES  FOR  CATARRH. 

A new  remedy  for  catarrh  is  crushed  cubeb  berries 
smoked  in  a pipe,  emitting  the  smoke  through  the 
nose;  after  a few  trials  this  will  be  easy  to  do.  If  the 
nose  is  stopped  up  so  that  it  is  almost  impossible  to 
breathe,  one  pipeful  will  make  the  head  as  clear  as  a 
bell.  For  sore  throat,  asthma,  and  bronchitis,  swal- 
lowing the  smoke  effects  immediate  relief.  It  is  the 
best  remedy  in  the  world  for  offensive  breathy  and  will 
make  the  most  foul  breath  pure  and  sweet.  Sufferers 
from  that  horrid  disease,  ulcerated  catarrh,  will  find 
this  remedy  unequaled,  and  a months’  use  will  cure  the 
most  obstinate  case.  A single  trial  will  convince  any- 
one. Eating  the  uncrushed  berries  is  also  good  for 
sore  throat  and  all  bronchial  complaints.  After  smok- 
ing, do  not  expose  yourself  to  cold  air  for  at  least 
fifteen  minutes. 


DIARRHOEA. 

For  any  form  of  diarrhoea  that,  by  excessive  action, 
demands  a speedy  correction,  the  most  efficacious  remedy 
that  can  be  employed  in  all  ages  and  conditions  of 
childhood  is  the  tincture  of  kino,  of  which  from  ten  to 
thirty  drops,  mixed  with  a little  sugar  and  water  in  a 
spoon,  are  to  be  given  every  two  or  three  hours  till  the 
undue  action  has  been  checked.  Often  the  change 
of  diet  to  rice,  milk,  eggs,  or  the  substitution  of 
animal  for  vegetable  food,  vice  versa,  will  correct  an  un- 
pleasant and  almost  chronic  state  of  diarrhoea. 


If  it  is  not  convenient  to  fill  flannel  bags  for  the  sick 
room  with  sand,  bran  will  answer  the  purpose  very 
well,  and  will  retain  the  heat  a long  time. 


279 


THE  EVERYDAY  COOK  BOOK. 


BITES  OF  DOGS. 

The  only  safe  remedy  in  case  of  a bite  from  a dog 
suspected  of  madness,  is  to  burn  out  the  wound  thor- 
oaghly  with  red-hot  iron,  or  with  lunar  caustic,  for 
fully  eight  seconds,  so  as  to  destroy  the  entire  surface 
of  the  wound.  Do  this  as  soon  as  possible,  for  no 
time  is  to  be  lost.  Of  course  it  will  be  expected  that 
the  parts  touched  with  the  caustic  will  turn  black. 

MEASLES  AND  SCARLATINA. 

Measles  and  scarlatina  much  resemble  each  other  in 
their  early  stages ; headache,  restlessness,  and  fretful- 
ness are  the  symptoms  of  both.  Shivering  fits,  suc- 
ceeded by  a hot  skin ; pains  in  the  back  and  limbs,  ac- 
companied by  sickness,  and,  in  severe  cases,  sore 
throat;  pain  about  the  jaws,  difficulty  in  swallowing, 
running  at  the  eyes,  which  become  red  and  inflamed, 
while  the  face  is  hot  and  flushed,  often  distinguish 
scarlatina  from  scarlet  fever,  of  which  it  is  only  a mild 
form,  While  the  case  is  doubtful,  a dessertspoonful  of 
spirit  of  nitre  diluted  in  water,  given  at  bedtime,  will 
throw  the  child  into  a gentle  perspiration,  and  will 
bring  out  the  rash  in  either  case.  In  measles,  this  ap- 
pears first  on  the  face:  in  scarlatina,  on  the  chest;  and 
in  both  cases,  a doctor  should  be  called  in.  In  scarla- 
tina, tartar-emetic  powder  or  ipecacuanha  may  be  ad- 
ministered in  the  mean  time. 

STYE  IN  THE  EYE. 

Styes  are  little  abscesses  which  form  between  the 
roots  of  the  eyelashes,  and  are  rarely  larger  than  a 
small  pea.  The  best  way  to  manage  them  is  to  bathe 
them  frequently  with  warm  water;  or  in  warm  poppy- 
water,  if  very  painful.  When  they  have  burst,  use  an 
ointment  composed  of  one  part  of  citron  ointment  and 


^ THE  EVERYDAY  COOK  BOOK,  273 

four  of  spermaceti,  well  rubbed  together,  and  smear 
along  the  edge  of  the  eyelid.  Give  a grain  or  two  of 
calomel  with  five  or  eight  grains  of  rhubarb,  according 
to  the  age  of  the  child,  twice  a week.  The  old-fash- 
ioned and  apparently  absurd  practice  of  rubbing  the 
stye  with  a ring,  is  as  good  and  speedy  a cure  as  that 
by  any  process  of  medicinal  application;  though  the 
number  of  times  it  is  rubbed,  or  the  quality  of  the  ring 
and  direction  of  the  strokes,  has  nothing  to  do  with  its 
success.  That  pressure  and  the  friction  excite  the  ves- 
sels of  the  part,  and  cause  an  absorption  of  the  effused 
matter  under  the  eyelash.  The  edge  of  the  nail  will 
answer  as  well  as  a ring. 

FOR  CONSTIPATION. 

One  or  two  figs  eaten  fastly  is  sufficient  for  some, 
and  they  are  especially  good  in  the  case  of  children,  as 
there  is  no  trouble  in  getting  them  to  take  them.  A 
spoon  of  wheaten  bran  in  a glass  of  water  is  a simple 
remedy  and  quite  effective. 

LEANNESS 

Is  caused  generally  by  lack  of  power  in  the  digestive 
organs  to  digest  and  assimilate  the  fat-producing  ele- 
ments of  food.  First  restore  digestion,  take  plenty  of 
sleep,  drink  all  the  water  the  stomach  will  bear  in  the 
morning  on  rising,  take  moderate  exercise  in  the  open 
air,  eat  oatmeal,  cracked  wheat,  Graham  mush,  baked 
sweet  apples,  roasted  and  broiled  beef,  cultivate  jolly 
people,  and  bathe  daily. 

SUPERFLUOUS  HAIRS 

Are  best  left  alone.  Shaving  only  increases  the 
strength  of  the  hair,  and  all  depilatories  are  dangerous 
and  sometimes  disfigure  the  face.  The  only  sure  plan 
is  to  spread  on  a piece  of  ieathei  equal  parts  of  garba* 


274 


THE  E VER  YD  A Y CO  OHB  0 OK, 


num  and  pitch  plaster,  lay  it  on  the  hair  as  smoothly  a«^ 
possible;  let  it  remain  three  or  four  minutes,  then  re- 
move it  with  the  hairs,  root  and  branch.  This  is  severe 
but  effective.  Kerosene  oil  will  also  remove  them.  If 
sore  after  using,  rub  on  sweet  oil. 

THE  BREATH. 

Nothing  makes  one  so  disagreeable  to  others  as  a 
bad  breath.  It  is  caused  by  bad  teeth,  diseased  stom- 
ach, or  disease  of  the  nostrils.  Neatness  and  care  of 
the  health  will  prevent  and  cure  it. 

THE  QUININE  CURE  FOR  DRUNKENNESS. 

Pulverize  one  pound  of  fresh  quill-red  Peruvian 
bark,  and  soak  it  in  one  pint  of  diluted  alcohol.  Strain 
and  evaporate  down  to  one-half  pint.  For  the  first  and 
second  days  give  a teaspoonful  every  three  hours.  If 
too  much  is  taken,  headache  will  result,  and' in  that 
case  the  doses  should  be  diminished.  On  the  third  day 
give  one-half  a teaspoonful;  on  the  fourth  reduce  the 
dose  to  fifteen  drops,  then  to  ten,  and  then  to  five. 
Seven  days,  it  is  said,  will  cure  average  cases,  though 
some  require  a whole  month. 

FOR  SORE  THROAT. 

Cut  slices  of  salt  pork  or  fat  bacon;  simmer  a few 
moments  in  hot  vinegar,  and  apply  to  throat  as  hot  as 
possible.  When  this  is  taken  off,  as  the  throat  is  re- 
lieved, put  around  a bandage  of  soft  fiannel.  A gargle 
of  equal  parts  of  borax  and  alum,  dissolved  in  water,  is 
aho  excellent.  To  je  used  frequently. 

A GOOD  CURE  FOR  COLDS. 

Boil  two  ounces  of  flaxseed  in  one  quart  of  water; 
Strain  and  add  two  ounces  of  rock  candy,  one-half  pint 


THE  EVERYDAY  COOK-BOOK. 


275 


of  honey,  juice  of  three  lemons;  mix,  and  let  all  boil 
well;  let  cool,  and  bottle.  Dose:  One  cupful  on  going 
to  bed,  one-half  cupful  before  meals.  The  hotter  you 
drink  it  the  better. 

TO  STOP  BLEEDING. 

A handful  of  flour  bound  on  the  cut. 

A HEALTHFUL  APPETIZER. 

How  often  we  hear  women  who  do  their  own  cooking 
say  that  by  the  time  they  have  prepared  a meal,  and  it 
is  ready  for  the  table,  they  are  too  tired  to  eat.  One 
way  to  mitigate  this  is  to  take,  about  half  an  hour  be 
fore  dinner,  a raw  egg,  beat  it  until  light,  put  in  a lit 
tie  sugar  and  milk,  flavor  it,  and  ‘‘drink  it  down.”  It 
will  remove  the  faint,  tired  out  feeling,  and  will  not 
spoil  your  appetite  for  dinner. 

TO  REMOVE  DISCOLORATION  PROM 
BRUISES. 

Apply  a cloth  wrung  out  in  very  hot  water,  and  re- 
new frequently  until  the  pain  ceases.  Or  apply  raw 
beefsteak. 

EARACHE. 

There  is  scarcely  any  ache  to  which  children  are 
subject  so  hard  to  bear  and  difficult  to  cure  as  the  ear- 
ache; but  there  is  a remedy  never  known  to  fail.  Take 
a bit  of  cotton  batting,  put  upon  it  a pinch  of  black 
pepper,  gather  it  up  and  tie  it,  dip  in  sweet  oil  and  in- 
sert into  the  ear;  put  a flannel  bandage  over  the  head 
to  keep  it  warm.  It  will  give  immediate  relief.  As 
soon  as  any  soreness  is  felt  in  the  ear,  let  three  or  four 
drops  of  the  tincture  of  arnica  be  poured  in  and  the 
orilici'  be  filled  with  a little  cotton 'wool  to  exclude  the 
air.  if  the  arnica  be  not  resorted  to  uiiUl  there  is 


276 


THE  EVERYDAY  COOK-BOOK, 


actual  pain,  then  the  cure  may  not  be  as  speedy,  but  it 
is  just  as  certain,  although  it  may  be  necessary  to  re- 
peat the  operation.  It  is  a sure  preventive  against 
gathering  in  the  ear,  which  is  the  usual  cause  of  ear- 
ache. 


TO  CURE  TOOTHACHE. 

The  worst  toothache,  or  neuralgia  coming  from  the 
teeth,  may  be  speedily  and  delightfully  ended  by  the 
application  of  a bit  of  clean  cotton,  saturated  in  a solu- 
tion of  ammonia,  to  the  defective  tooth.  Sometimes 
the  late  sufferer  is  prompted  to  momentary  laughter  by 
the  application,  but  the  pain  will  disappear. 

FOR  FELON. 

Take  common  rock  salt  as  usea  for  salting  down  pork 
or  beef,  dry  in  an  oven,  and  pound  it  fine  and  mix  with 
spirits  of  turpentine  in  equal  parts;  put  it  in  a rag  and 
wrap  it  around  the  parts  affected;  as  it  gets  dry  put  on 
mr)re,  and  in  twenty-four  hours  you  are  cured.  The 
felon  will  be  dead. 


Coffee  pounded  in  a mortar  and  roasted  on  an  iron 
plate,  sugar  burned  on  hot  coals,  and  vinegar  boiled 
with  myrrh  and  sprinkled  on  the  floor  and  furniture  of 
a sick  room,  are  excellent  deodorizers. 


The  skin  of  a boiled  egg  is  the  most  efficacious  rem- 
edy that  can  be  applied  to  a boil.  Peel  it  carefully, 
wet  and  apply  to  the  part  affected.  It  will  draw  off 
the  mutter  and  relieve  the  soreness  in  a few  boars 


l'£E  E f^EBYDAY  COOK-BOOK. 


TO  CUEE  A WHITLOW. 

As  soon  as  the  whitlow  has  risen  distinctly,  a pretty 
piece  should  be  snipped  out,  so  that  the  watery 
matter  may  readily  escape  and  continue  to  flow  out  as 
fast  as  produced.  A bread  and  water  poultice  should 
be  put  on  for  a few  days,  when  the  wound  should  be 
bound  up  lightly  with  some  mild  ointment,  when  a cure 
will  be  speedily  completed.  Constant  poulticing,  both 
before  and  after  the  opening  of  the  whitlow,  is  the  only 
practice  needed;  but  as  the  matter  lies  deep,  when  it  is 
necessary  to  open  the  abscess  the  incision  must  be  made 
deep  to  reach  the  suppuration. 

TAPE -WORMS. 

Tape-worms  are  said  to  be  removed  by  refraining 
from  supper  and  breakfast,  and  at  eight  o-clock  taking 
one-third  part  of  two  hundred  minced  pumpkin  seeds, 
the  shells  of  which  have  been  removed  by  hot  water; 
at  nine  take  another  third,  at  ten  the  remainder,  and 
follow  it  at  eleven  with  a strong  doze  of  castor  oil. 

FOR  A CAKED  BREAST. 

Bake  large  potatoes,  put  two  or  more  in  a woolen 
stocking;  crush  them  soft  and  apply  to  the  breast  as 
hot  as  can  be  borne;  repeat  constantly  until  relieved. 


A good  remedy  for  blistered  feet  rom  long  walking 
is  to  rub  the  feet  at  going  to  bed  with  spirits  mixed 
with  tallow  dropped  from  a lighted  candle  into  the  palm 
of  the  hand. 


A lady  writes  that  sufferers  from  asthma  should  get 
a muskrat  skin  and  wear  it  over  their  lungs,  with  the 
fur  side  next  to  the  body.  It  will  bring  certain  relief. 


278  THE  EVERYDAY  COOKBOOK. 

CHAPPED  HANDS. 

Powdered  starch  is  an  excellent  preventive  of  chap- 
ping of  the  hands,  when  it  is  rubbed  over  them  after 
washing  and  drying  them  thoroughly.  It  will  also  pre- 
vent the  needle  in  sewing  from  sticking  and  becoming 
rusty.  It  is  therefore  advisable  to  have  a small  box  of 
it  in  the  work-box  or  basket,  and  near  your  wash-basin. 

LUNAR  CAUSTIC. 

Lunar  caustic,  carefully  applied  so  as  not  to  touch 
the  skin,  wfll  destroy  warts. 

CURE  FOR  RHEUMATISM  AND  BILIOUS 
HEADACHE. 

Finest  Turkey  rhubarb,  half  an  ounce;  carbonate 
magnesia,  one  ounce;  mix  intimately,' keep  well  corked 
in  glass  bottle.  Dose:  One  teaspoonful,  in  milk  and 
sugar,  tie  first  thing  in  the  morning;  repeat  till  cured. 
Tried  with  success. 

FEVER  AND  AGUE. 

Four  ounces  galangal-root  in  a quart  of  gin,  steeped 
in  a warm  place;  take  often. 


For  a simple  fainting  fit  a horizontal  position  and 
fresh  air  will  usually  suffice.  If  a person  receive  a 
severe  shock  caused  by  a fall  or  blow,  handle  carefully 
without  jarring.  A horizontfil  position  is  best. 
Loosen  all  tight  clothing  from  the  throat,  chest  and 
waist.  If  the  patient  can  swallow,  give  half  teaspoon- 
ful aromatic  spirits  of  ammonia  in  a little  water.  If 
that  can  not  be  procured,  give  whiskey  or  brandy  and 
water.  Apply  warmth  to  the  feet  and  boweK 


TEE  E VER  YD  A Y GOOK-BOOK.  27S 

TO  RESTOKE  PROM  STROKE  OP  LIGHT 
NING. 

Shower  with  cold  water  for  two  hours;  if  the  patient 
does  not  show  signs  of  life,  put  salt  in  the  water,  and 
continue  to  shower  an  hour  longer. 

RELIEP  POR  INPLAMED  PEET. 

The  first  thinar  to  he  done  is  to  take  off  and  throw 

O 

away  tight-fitting  boots,  which  hurt  the  tender  feet  as 
much  as  if  they  were  put  into  a press.  Then  take  one 
pint  of  wheat  bran  and  one  ounce  of  saleratns,  and  put 
it  into  a foot-bath,  and  add  one  gallon  of  hot  water. 
When  it  has  become  cool  enough  put  in  the  feet,  soak 
them  for  fifteen  minutes,  and  the  rc'lief  will  be  almost 
immediate.  Repeat  this  every  night  for  a week,  and 
the  cure  will  be  complete.  The  burning,  prickly  sensa- 
tion is  caused  by  the  pores  of  the  skin  being  closed  up 
so  tightly  by  the  pressure  of  the  boots  that  they  cannot 
perspire  freely. 

WARM  WATER. 

Warm  water  is  preferable  to  cold  water  as  a drink  tc 
persons  who  are  subject  to  dyspeptic  and  bilious  com^ 
plaints,  and  it  may  be  taken  more  freely  than  cold 
water,  and  consequently  answers  better  as  a diluent 
for  carrying  off  bile  and  removing  obstructions  in  the 
urinary  secretion,  in  cases  of  stone  and  gravel.  When 
water  of  a temperature  equal  to  that  of  the  human 
body  is  used  for  drink,  it  proves  considerably  stimu^ 
lant,  and  is  particularly  suited  to  dyspeptic,  bilious, 
gouty  and  chlorotic  subjects. 

CLEANING  HOUSE. 

SITTING  AND  DINING-ROOMS. 

By  the  time  the  upper  part  of  the  house  is  well 
cleaned  and  in  good  order,  if  it  has  been  taken  one 


280 


THE  EVERYDAY  COOK-BOOK 


room  at  a time,  and  leisurely,  probably,  the  dining-, 
room  can  be  torn  up  on  a warm  and  pleasant  day,  and, 
unless  the  alterations  are  to  be  extensive,  scoured  md 
gotten  to  rights  again  before  nightfall.  And  the  sit- 
ting room  on  another  day.  House-cleaning,-  unless 
conducted  on  some  plan  which  occasions  little  if  any 
disturbance  in  the  general  domestic  arrangement,  is  a 
nuisance,  particularly  to  the  males  of  the  household. 
Nothing  can  be  (next  to  a miserable  dinner)  more  ex- 
asperating to  a tired  man  than  to  come  home  and  find 
the  house  topsy-turvy.  And  it  certainly  raises  his 
opinion  of  his  wife’s  executive  ability  to  find  everything 
freshened  and  brightened,  and  that  without  his  having 
been  annoyed  by  the  odor  of  the  soapsuds,  or  yet  'hr4,v- 
ing  been  obliged  to  betake  himself  to  the  kitchen  for 
his  meals. 

But  if  the  order  of  work  is  well  laid  out  the  night 
before-hand,  the  breakfast  as  leisurely  eaten  as  usual, 
and  the  family  dispersed  in  their  various  ways  before 
commencing  operations,  then  by  working  with  a will 
wonders  can  be  accomplished  in  a very  short  time.  It 
is  not  worth  while  to  undertake  a thorough  cleaning  of 
all  extra  china,  silver  and  glassware  which  may  be 
stored  in  the  china  closet,  in  addition  to  the  room  itself. 
They  can  readily  wait  over  until  another  morning,  as 
can  the  examination  of  table-linen.  In  cleaning  any 
room,  after  the  furniture  and  carpets  have  been  taken 
out  and  the  dust  swept  out  with  a damp  broom,  the. 
proper  order  is  to  begin  with  the  ceiling,  then  take  the 
walls  ,nd  windows,  and  lastly  the  floor.  Kalsomining 
or  whitewash  dries  most  quickly  when  exposed  to  free 
draughts  of  air,  the  windows  being  thrown  wide  open 
for  the  purpose ; this  process  can  also  be  aided  by  light- 
ing a fire  in  the  room,  either  in  the  stove  left  for  the 
purpose,  or  in  the  grate.  These  means  are  equally 
good  for  (Irving  a frcshly-scourc'd  floor. 

in  lieu  of  regular  carpet  wadding,  layers  of  newsr 


THE  EVERYDAY  COOKBOOK 


281 


papers  are  very  good  padding  under  a carpet,  or  better 
yet,  sheets  of  thick  brown  paper  will  answer  very  well. 
Matting  and  green  linen  shades  are  delightfully  cool  in 
either  sitting  or  dining-room  for  summer  use,  or  all 
through  the  hottest  weather;  if  - the  dining-room  can  be 
left  with  a bare  floor,  and  lightly  washed  off  with  cold 
water  before  breakfast  each  day,  it  will  add  greatly  to 
the  coolness  of  the  room.  A fireplace  can  be  arranged 
with  a screen  before  it,  or  it  can  be  left  open,  the  fix- 
tures taken  away,  and  a large  stone  or  pottery  jar  filled 
with  fresh  flowers  daily  set  into  it.  Very  showy  flowers 
can  in  this  way  be  made  effective  in  decorating  a room. 
Jars  covered  with  pictures  of  decalcomania  are  tawdry- 
looking. Better  far  to  paint  them  a dull  black  or  bottle- 
green,  or  a brick  red,  with  a plain  band  or  geometric 
design  traced  in  sOme  contrasting  color. 

In  dining-room  furniture  oak  wood  with  green  trim- 
mings and  light  paint  are  good  contrasting  colors,  while 
black  walnut  or  mahogany,  with  red  carpet  and  shades 
of  red  predominating  about  the  room,  look  well  with 
dark  paint. 

In  arranging  a sitting-room  large  spaces  left  empty 
look  more  comfortable  and  are  more  convenient  in  every 
way  than  a room  huddled  too  full  of  furniture.  A home 
is  not  a furniture  wareroom  nor  a fancy  bazaar,  but  a 
place  for  people  to  live  in,  and  to  grow  in  and  to  move 
about  in. 

House-cleaning  time  presents  an  opportunity  for  dis- 
posing of  many  ostensibly  ornamental  articles  which 
only  serve  to  fill  up  space,  without  being  either  beauti- 
ful or  well-made  of  their  kind. 

An  empty  wall  looks  better  than  one  hung  with  daubs. 
Good  engravings  and  plain,  cheap  frames  are  now  ob- 
tained at  such  a trifling  cost  that  almost  every  one  can 
afl'ord  one  or  two  excellent  ones  in  their  sitting-room. 
People  living  at  a distance  can  easily  send  to  some  large 
city  for  an  engraving  or  two^  or^  if  they  prefer  colored 


293 


The  everyday  cook-dooS:. 


pictures,  to  some  well-known  establishment  for  two  ot 
three  good  chromos.  I have  seen  some  of  the  best 
newspaper  engravings  pinned  upon  the  sitting-room 
wall,  framed  in  pressed  ferns,  with  very  good  eff ectf in- 
deed. Once  a very  simple  bracket  held  a glass  bumper 
of  unique  pattern,  from  which  was  trailed  cypress  vines, 
and  mingled  with  them,  a bunch  of  scarlet  lychnis. 
Against  the  white  wall  of  the  room  they  looked  brilliant, 
and  the  effect  was  really  beautiful. 

When  the  sitting-room  is  torn  up  frequently  an  array 
of  new'spapers,  missing  books,  etc.,  are  found  huddled 
together  in  some  corner.  In  settling  the  room  these 
should  find  their  proper  places,  and  it  would  be  a good 
thing  to  keep  them  there  ever  after,  for  no  matter  how 
thorough  the  cleaning  process,  untidiness  and  litter  wdll 
soon  make  any  room  appear  nearly  as  badly  as  before 
it  was  scoured. 

HOW  TO  DUST  A ROOM. 

Soft  cloths  make  the  best  of  dusters.  In  dusting  any 
piece  of  furniture  begin  at  the  top  and  dust  down,  wip- 
ing carefully  with  the  cloth,  which  can  be  frequently 
shaken.  A good  many  people  seem  to  have  no  idea 
what  dusting  is  intended  to  accomplish,  and  instead  of 
wiping  off  and  removing  the  dust  it  is  simply  flirted  off 
into  the  air  and  soon  settles  down  upon  the  articles 
dusted  again.  If  carefully  taken  up  by  the  cloth  it  can 
be  shaken  off  out  of  the  window  into  the  open  air.  If 
the  furniture  will  permit  the  use  of  a damp  cloth,  that 
will  more  easily  take  up  the  dust,  and  it  can  be  washed 
out  in  a pail  of  soapsuds.  It  is  far  easier  to  save  work 
by  covering  up  nice  furniture  while  sweeping,  than  to 
clean  the  dust  out,  besides  leaving  the  furniture  looking 
far  better  in  the  long  run.  The  blessing  of  plainness 
in  decoration  is  appreciated  by  the  thorough  house- 
keeper who  does  her  own  work  while  dusting. 


THE  EVEMYDAT  COOK-BOOK. 


m 


GIRLS,  LEARN  TO  COOK. 

Yes,  yes,  learn  how  to  cook,  girls;  and  learn  how  to 
cook  well.  What  right  has  a girl  to  marry  and  go  in- 
to a house  of  her  own  unless  she  knows  how  to  super- 
intend every  branch  of  housekeeping;  and  she  cannot 
properly  superintend  unless  she  has  some  pra^otical 
knowledge  herself.  It  is  sometimes  asked,  sneeringly, 
‘^What  kind  of  a man  is  he  who  would  marry  a cook?” 
The  fact  is,  that  men  do  not  think  enough  of  this; 
indeed,  most  men  marry  without  thinking  whether  the 
woman  of  his  choice  is  capable  of  cooking  him  a meal, 
and  it  is  a pity  he  is  so  shortsighted,  as  his  health,  his 
cheerfulness,  and,  indeed,  his  success  in  life,  depend  in 
a very  great  degree  on  the  kind  of  food  he  eats;  in  fact, 
the  whole  household  is  influenced  by  the  diet.  Feed 
them  on  fried  cakes,  fried  meats,  hot  bread  and  other 
indigestible  viands,  day  after  day  and  they  will  need 
medicine  to  make  them  well. 

Let  all  girls  have  a share  in  housekeeping  at  home 
before  they  marry;  let  each  superintend  some  depart- 
ment by  turns.  It  need  not  occupy  half  the  time  to  see 
that  the  house  has  been  properly  swept,  dusted,  and 
put  in  order,  to  prepare  puddings  and  make  dashes,  that 
many  young  ladies m pend  in  reading  novels  which  ener- 
vate both  mind  and  body  and  unfit  them  for  every-day 
life.  W omen  do  not,  as  a general  rule,  get  pale  faces 
doing  housework.  Their  sedentary  habits,  in  over- 
heated rooms,  combined  with  ill-chosen  food,  are  to 
blame  for  bad  health.  Our  mothers  used  to  pride  them- 
selves on  their  housekeeping  and  fine  needlework.  Let 
the  present  generation  add  to  its  list  of  real  accomplish- 
ments the  art  of  properly  preparing  food  for  the  human 
body. 

TEACH  THE  LITTLE  ONES. 

There  is  scarcely  a busy  home  mother  i«  the  land 


284 


THE  EVERYDAY  COOK-BOOK. 


who  has  not  at  some  time  or  other  felt  how  much  easier 
it  would  be  to  do  all  the  work  herself  than  to  attempt 
to  teach  a child  to  assist  her,  whether  it  be  in  house- 
hold matters  or  in  sewing.  Now  we  would  speak  par- 
ticularly of  the  latter.  But  it  seems  almost  the  right 
of  every  little  girl  to  be  taught  to  sew  neatly,  even  if 
it  does  cost  the  mother  some  self-sacrifice.  Very 
few  grown  women  are  wholly  exempt  from  ever  using  s 
needle.  On  the  contrary  almost  every  woman  must 
take  more  or  less  care  of  her  own  wardrobe,  even  if  she 
has  no  responsibility  for  that  of  any  one’s  around  her. 
Machines  cannot  sew  up  rips  in  gloves,  replace  missing 
buttons,  or  make  or  mend  without  any  needlework  by 
hand.  Some  stitches  must  be  taken,  and  how  to  sew 
neatly  is  an  accomplishment  quite  as  necessary,  if  not 
more  so,  to  the  happiness  of  a majority  of  women  than 
any  other.  If  a little  girl  be  early  taught  how  to  use 
her  needle,  it  very  soon  becomes  a sort  of  second  nature 
to  her,  and  very  little  ones  can  learn  to  thread  the 
needle  and  take  simple  stitches.  Only  the  mother  must 
be  patient  and  painstaking  with  them,  not  letting  poor 
work  receive  praise  or  permitting  the  child  to  slight 
what  she  undertakes.  The  stint  can  be  a very  short  one 
with  very  little  children.  It  is  usually  best  so,  but  fre- 
quent lessons  should  be  given. 

CHILDREN  LOVE  GAMES. 

Take  advantage  of  this  to  give  them  physical  train- 
ing. Furnish  them  the  apparatus  for  games  which  re- 
([uire  a good  deal  of  muscular  exercise.  Those  curi- 
ous little  affairs  which  require  them  to  sit  on  the  floor 
or  gather  about  the  table  and  remain  in  a cramped 
position,  are  not  advisable. 

It  is  particularly  desirable  that  the  games  should 
call  them  into  the  open  air  and  sunshine.  In  this  way 
children  lay  in  a stock  of  health  and  strength.  Be' 


THE  EVERYDAY  COOKBOOK. 


S85 


..  member  that,  particularly  in  our  early  \-ears,  this  is  in- 
finitely more  important  than  ail  adornments  of  the  per- 
son or  study  of  books. 

Let  it  not  be  forgotten  that  symmetrical  develop- 
ment of  the  body  is  of  the  utmost  Importance.  A 
child,  for  example,  is  weah  and  round-shouldered.  It 
is  important  that  he  should  bo  made  strong.  It  is  not 
less  important  that  he  should  be  made  straight.  Every 
conceivable  exercise  may  tend  to  increase  the  strength, 
but  only  special  exercises  tend  to  draw  the  shoulders 
back,  and  thus  secure  the  rectitude  which  is  the  basis 
of  spinal  and  visceral  tone.  It  is  not  difiieult  to  give 
children  such  games  and  sports  as  v/ill  have  this  special 
tendency. 

TEACH  YOUR  OWN  CHILDREN. 

Some  parents  allow  their  children  to  acquire  the  very 
rude  and  unmannerly  habit  of  breaking  in  upon  their 
conversation  and  those  of  older  persons  with  questions 
and  remarks  of  their  own.  It  is  very  uncivil  to  allow 
them  to  do  so.  So,  even  among  their  own  brothers  mid 
sisters  and  schoolmates  of  their  own  age,  let  them  speak 
without  interrupting.  If  one  begins  to  tell  a story  or 
bit  of  news,  teach  them  to  let  him  finish  it;  and  if  he 
makes  mistakes  that  ought  to  be  corrected,  do  it  after- 
wards. Don’t  allow  them  to  acquire  the  habit  of  being 
interrupters.  Most  of  those  who  allow  their  own  chil- 
dren to  form  this  agreeable  habit  will  be  exceedingly 
annoyed  at  the  same  conduct  in  other  folks’  children. 
The  fault  is  that  of  the  parents  in  not  teaching  their 
children.  If  they  interrupt  at  home,  tell  them  to  wait 
till  they  can  converse  without  annoying,  and  see  that 
they  do  it. 

CULTIVATING  SELFISHNESS  IN  CHIL- 
DREN. 

The  mother  who  in  the  fullness  of  generous  love 
runs  hither  and  thither  continually  to  ^o  for  the  vari- 


286  THE  EVERY  DAY  COOK-BOOK 

ous  members  of  the  family  those  things  which  they 
should  do  themselves,  comes  to  be  regarded  as  a useful 
piece  of  machinery,  suited  to  minister  to  their  wants, 
but  she  is  not  regarded  with  one  whit  more  of  love  or 
reverence,  rather  the  reverseo  By  and  by,  when  the 
mother  is  worn  out  in  body  and  spirit,  when  the  child, 
grown  older,  feels  no  need  of  her  as  its  slave,  it  finds 
other  more  attractive  playmates  and  companions. 

The  mother  has  necessarily  far  more  labor,  care,  and 
anxiety  than  any  other  member  of  the  household.  She  is 
continually  occupied,  and  her  work  seems  to  have  no 
end.  Neither  husband  nor  children  will  love  her  the 
more  for  sacrificing  herself  wholly  to  them,  as  many  a 
sad,  weary  mother  has  learned  to  her  cost.  Let  her  be 
just  to  herself.  Not  that  she  should  make  slaves  of 
the  children  any  more  than  they  should  make  a slave 
of  her.  But  children  like  to  be  useful,  like  to  feel  that 
they  are  a real  help  to  older  persons,  and  if  a little 
praise  and  perhaps,  too,  a little  money  is  given  them, 
they  will  learn  to  enjoy  the  pleasure  of  helping  mother 
and  of  earning  something  for  themselves,  and  early 
taught  the  dignity  of  labor  as  well  as  save  their  mother 
a little  time  to  keep  herself  in  advance  of  them  in 
study  and  thought,  in  general  information,  and  in  spir- 
itual growth,  so  as  to  be  always  reverenced  as  their 
intellectual  and  spiritual  guide  and  friend  and  coun- 
sellor. 

It  has  been  truly  said  by  Miss  Sewell,  author  of  an 
excellent  work  on  education,  that  ‘‘Unselfish  mothers 
make  selfish  children.’*  This  may  seem  startling,  but 
the  truth  is,  that  the  mother  who  is  continually  giving 
up  her  own  time,  money,  strength,  and  pleasure  for  the 
gratification  of  her  children  teaches  them  to  expect  it 
always.  They  learn  to  be  importunate  in  their  demands, 
and  to  expect  more  and  more.  If  the  mother  wears  an 
old  dress  that  her  daughter  may  have  a new  one,  if  she 
work  that  her  daughter  may  playi  she  is  helping  to 


fHM  EVERYbAY  COOK-BOOK. 


287 


toake  her  vain,  selfish,  and  ignorant,  and  very  likely 
she  will  be  ungrateful  and  disrespectful,  and  this  is 
equally  true  of  the  husband,  and  other  members  of  the 
family.  Unselfish  wives  make  selfish  husbands. 

PACKING  AWAY  FURS. 

All  furs  should  be  well  switched  and  beaten  lightly, 
free  from  dust  and  loose  hairs,  well  wrapped  in  news- 
paper, with  bits  of  camphor  laid  about  them  and  in 
them,  and  put  away  in  a cool  dark  place.  If  a cedar 
closet  or  chest  is  to  be  had,  laid  into  that.  In  lieu  of 
that,  new  cedar  chips  may  be  scattered  about.  It  is 
never  well  to  delay  packing  furs  away  until  quite  late  in 
the  season,  for  the  moth  will  early  commence  depre- 
dations. In  packing  them  they  should  not  be  rolled 
so  tightly  as  to  be  crushed  and  damaged. 

COURAGE. 

One  may  possess  physical  courage,  so  that  in  times 
of  danger,  a railroad  accident,  a steamboat  collision  or 
a runaway  horse,  the  heart  will  not  be  daunted  or  the 
cheek  paled,  while  on  the  other  hand,  one  may  be 
morally  brave,  not  afraid  to  speak  a word  for  the  right 
in  season,  though  unwelcome,  to  perform  a disagree- 
able duty  unflinchingly  or  to  refuse  to  do  a wrong  act, 
and  yet  be  a physical  coward,  trembling  and  terrified  in 
a thunder-storm,  timid  in  the  dark,  and  even  scream 
at  the  sight  of  a mouse.  Courage,  both  moral  and 
physical,  is  one  of  the  finest  attributes  of  character, 
and  both  can  be  cultivated  and  gained  if  desired  and 
sought  after.  Some  girls  think  it  interesting  and  at- 
tractive to  be  terrified  at  insects,  and  will  shriek  with 
fright  if  they  happen  to  be  chased  a few  rods  by  a flock 
of  geese,  but  they  only  excite  laughter  and  do  not  gain 
the  admiration  which  a brave  girl  who  tries  to  help 
herself  would  deserva 


THE  EVERYDAY  COOK  BOOK 


THE  ART  OF  BEAUTY  IN  DRE^Sf. 

It  is  far  easier  to  find  fault  with  existing  eus^ 
toms  than  to  devise  and  put  in  practice  other  and  tet- 
ter ones. 

Ladies  do  not  like  to  appear  singular,  and  make 
themselves  conspicuous  by  wearing  such  articles  of 
dress  as  are  laughed  at,  possibly,  certainly  not  worn  by 
any  other  persons  in  the  city  or  county  in  which  she 
may  belong.  And  so  the  matter  goes  on.  Manufac- 
turers, dry  goods  dealer?,  and  milliners,  and  dress- 
makers, carry  the  day  with  a high  hand.  Yet  there  is 
always  some  choice,  and  as,  thanks  to  our  civilized 
habits,  a full-length  mirror  is  obtainable  by  most 
ladies,  given  the  resolution  to  make  the  most  and  best 
of  themselves,  the  greater  number  of  women  can  so 
fitudy  the  art  of  dressing  well  as  to  produce  some  ex- 
cellent results. 

It  will  hardly  do  to  copy  the  old  masters  of  painting 
in  the  arrangement  of  drapery,  at  least  anyways 
closely,  for  no  matter  how  well  the  voluminous  folds 
may  look  painted,  they  certainly  would  be  very  much 
in  the  way  in  real  life,  and  impede  any  free  action  of 
the  muscles  somewhat,  while  the  length  of  sweeping 
gowns  certainly  looks  more  in  place  on  painted  canvas 
than  it  can  do  on  an  ordinary  walking  dress.  Ladies 
have  realized  this  fact,  however,  and  the  short  walking- 
skirt,  at  once  pretty  and  convenient,  has  been  the  re- 
sult. 

In  some  places  the  common-sense  shoe  can  be 
found,  and  this  permits  the  muscles  of  the  foot,  if  not 
the  freest,  yet  fair  play.  One  great  mistake  in  the 
dressing  of  the  feet  is  getting  the  covering  too  short. 
It  will  throw  back  the  toe  joints,  and  a bunion  is  only 
too  frequently  the  result.  If  the  soles  of  the  shoes  are 
too  thin,  the  feet  become  chilled,  and  disease  ensues. 
Yet  in  repeated  instances  they  have  been  known  to 


THE  EVERYDAY  COOK  BOOK. 


289 


draw  the  feet  and  made  them  exceedingly  tender 
and  sore.  A light  cork  sole  sowed  to  a knitted 
worsted  slipper  will  give  a foot  covering,  equally  light 
and  far  less  injurious  in  its  results. 

There  are  ladies  who  wholly  ignore  woolen  hosiery, 
preferring  lisle  thread,  cotton  or  silk.  Yet  in  winter 
time,  particularly  for  children,  woolen  stockings  are  al- 
most a necessity,  particularly  if  woolen  is  worn  over 
the  rest  of  the  body.  There  are  some  people  who  can 
not  abide  the  feeling  of  woolen  garments  next  the  skin, 
and  they  are  obliged  to  get  their  warmth  ot  clothing  in 
other  than  their  undergarments.  Heavy  outside  gar- 
ments are  not  quite  so  graceful  as  those  of  softer  and 
lighter  material  But  if  they  must  be  worn  they  will 
bear  a plainer  cut  than  such  clothes  as  are  natur- 
ally clinging,  and  adapt  themselves  to  the  figure. 

Solid  and  plain  colors  have  a greater  richness  than 
mixed  shades.  If  combined  tints  are  used,  they  should 
only  be  such  as  harmonize  well  and  in  the  full  length 
figure  give  a good  personal  effect  Probably  more  la- 
dies err  in  getting  good  general  effects  than  in  any  oth- 
er one  particular.  They  have  various  garments,  pretty 
enough,  possibly,  in  themselves,  yet  which  do  not  har- 
monize well  together,  either  in  material,  color  or  cut, 
or  possibly  with  their  particular  style  of  figure  and 
shade  of  hair  and  complexiono  For  example,  the  skirt 
will  have  one  style  of  trimming,  the  waist  another,  the 
bonnet  may  look  exceedingly  well  with  one  suit,  and  be 
quite  out  of  keeping  with  another  A short  dumpy 
person  will  wear  flounces,  a tall  slim  one  stripes,  while 
some  red-haired  woman  will  fancy  an  exquisite  shade 
of  pink,  while  green  or  blue  would  have  been  much 
more  becoming. 

Black  generally  makes  people  look  smaller,  and  white 
larger.  A very  pale  person  can  bear  a certain  amount 
of  bright  red.  Any  delicate  complexion  looks  well 
with  soft  ruchings  or  laces  at  neck  and  wrist.  Lace  is 


THE  EVERYDAY  COOK  BOOK. 


so  expensive  that  it  cannot  be  so  generally  worn  as  it 
might  be,  with  excellent  effect  Probably  no  prettier 
head  covering  has  ever  been  designed  than  the  veils 
worn  by  the  Spanish  women.  Certainly  they  are  in- 
finitely more  graceful  than  a modem  poke  bonnet. 

Dress  goods  cut  up  into  little  bits  and  sewed  togeth- 
er into  fantastical  shapes  called  trimmings,  are  apt  if 
too  freely  used  to  give  an  air  ot  fussiness  to  the  dress, 
and  be  withal  a source  of  endless  annoyance  in  catch- 
ing dust  and  dirt.  The  former  ideas  of  a border  or 
hem  to  finish  has  become  the  greater  part  of  the  gar- 
ment. 

Nothing  is  gained  in  grace  by  making  any  outside 
garment  skin-tight,  while  much  is  lost  in  comfort  by  so 
doing.  A sleeve,  for  instance,  to  be  serviceable  and 
look  well,  should  be  loose  and  adapt  itself  somewhat  to 
the  curve  of  the  arm.  Likewise  a dress  waist  looks  far 
better  a little  loose,  as  well  as  being  more  healthful  and 
wearing  better. 

Large,  stout  persons  can  add  to'  their  appearance 
much  by  wearing  all  outside  skirts  buttoned  on  to  fitted 
undergarments  below  the  hips  several  inches,  for  gath- 
ers about  the  waist  only  add  to  their  stoutness  of  look, 
and  are  uncomfortable  to  carry  about.  A yoked  petti- 
coat answers  the  purpose  very  well  in  lien  of  the  but- 
toned skirts. 

A wrapper  for  a tall  slim  person  can  have  a Spanish 
flounce,  while  a slashed  skirt  with  kilt  inserts  is  more 
becoming  to  a short  figure.  Large  folds  are  always 
more  graceful  than  small  pleats  and  puckers.  One  very 
great  fault  of  our  dressmaking  lies  in  not  allowing  the 
goods  to  fall  in  large  and  natural  folds,  but  in  buuch- 
iiig  and  pleating  it  in  folding,  and  pressing  the  goods 
down,  into  fantastic  and  inartistic  shapes.  Added  to 
this,  pauiers,  and  padding,  bustles,  and  hoops,  until 
an  ordinary  woman  is  forced  to  appear  like  a stuffed 
figure  instead  of  a living  human  being. 


THE  EVERYDAY  COOK  BOOK.  2^^ 

Every  woman  can  modify,  and  arrange,  and  simpli- 
fy, and  that  without  becoming  either  ultra  or  conspicu- 
ous. It  will  take  time.  That  cannot  be  helped,  yet 
possibly  the  saving  in  comfort  and  expense  may  fully 
compensate  for  the  few  hours  spent  in  studying  her  own 
dress  with  the  mirror  before  her  and  with  the  deter- 
mination to  make  the  very  best  and  most  of  herself.  > 

HOME  DRESSMAKING. 

The  art  of  dressmaking  in  America  has  been  of  late 
years  so  simplified  that  almost  anyone  with  a reasonable 
degree  of  executive  ability  can  manufacture  a fashion- 
able costume  by  using  an  approved  pattern  and  follow- 
ing the  directions  printed  upon  it,  selecting  a new  pat- 
tern for  each  distinct  style;  while  in  Europe  many 
ladies  adhere  to  the  old  plan  of  cutting  one  model  and 
using  it  for  everything,  trusting  to  personal  skill  or 
luck  to  gain  the  desired  formation.  However,  some 
useful  hints  are  given  which  are  well  worth  offering 
after  the  paper  pattern  has  been  chosen. 

The  best  dressmake  :s  here  and  abroad  use  silk  for 
lining,  but  nothing  is  so  durable  or  preserves  the  ma- 
terial as  well  as  a firm  slate  twill  This  is  sold  double 
width  and  should  be  laid  out  thus  folded : place  the 
pattern  upon  it  with  the  upper  part  towards  the  cut 
end,  the  selvedge  for  the  fronts.  The  side  pieces  for 
the  back  will  most  probably  be  got  out  of  the  width  , 
while  the  top  of  the  back  will  fit  in  the  intersect  of  the 
front.  A yard  of  good  stuff  may  be  often  saved  by 
laying  the  pattern  out  and  well  considering  how  one 
part  cuts  into  another.  Prick  the  outline  on  the  lin- 
ing ; these  marks  serve  as  a guide  for  the  tacking. 

In  forming  the  front  side  plaits  be  careful  and  do 
not  allow  a fold  or  crease  to  be  apparent  on  the  bodice 
beyond  where  the  stitching  commences.  To  avoid  this, 
before  beginning  stick  a pin  through  what  is  to  be  the 
top  of  the  plait.  The  head  will  be  on  the  right  side, 


292 


THE  EVERYDAY  COOK-BOOK. 


and  holding  the  point,  one  can  begin  pianing  the  seam 
without  touching  the  upper  part  of  the  bodice.  To  as* 
certain  the  size  of  the  buttonholes  put  a piece  of  card 
beneath  the  button  to  be  used  and  cut  it  an  eighth  of 
an  inch  on  either  side  beyond.  Having  tftrned  down 
the  piece  in  front  on  the  buttonhole  side  run  a thread  a 
sixteenth  of  an  inch  from  the  extreme  edge,  and  anoth- 
er the  width  of  the  card.  Begin  to  cut  the  first  but- 
tonhole at  the  bottom  of  the  bodice,  and  continue  at 
equal  distances.  The  other  side  of  the  bodice  is  left 
wide  enough  to  come  well  under  the  buttonholes.  The 
buttonholes  must  be  laid  upon  it  and  a pin  put  through 
the  centre  of  each  to  mark  where  the  button  is  to  be 
placed.  In  sewing  on  the  buttons  put  the  stitches  in 
horizontally;  if  perpendicularly  they  are  likely  to 
pucker  that  side  of  the  bodice  so  much  that  it  will  be 
quite  drawn  up,  and  the  buttons  will  not  match  the 
buttonholes. 

A WOMAN^S  SKIRTS. 

(Observe  the  extra  fatigue  which  is  insured  to  every 
woman  in  merely  carrying  a tray  upstairs,  from  the 
skirts  of  the  dress.  Ask  any  young  women  who  are 
studying  to  pass  examinations  whether  they  do  not 
find  loose  clothes  a sine  qua  non  while  pouring 
over  their  books,  and  then  realike  the  harm  we 
are  doing  ourselves  and  the  race  by  habitually  low- 
ering our  powers  of  life  and  energy  in  such  a man- 
ner. As  a matter  of  fact  it  is  doubtful  whether  any 
persons  have  ever  been  found  who  would  say  that 
their  stays  were  at  all  tight;  and,  indeed,  by 
a muscular  contraction  they  can  apparently  prove  that 
they  are  not  so  by  moving  them  about  on  themselves, 
and  thus  probably  believe  what  they  say.  That  they 
are  in  error  all  tho  same  they  can  easily  assure  them- 
selves by  first  measuring  round  the  waist  outside  the 
stays;  then  take  them  off,  let  them  measure  while  they 
take  a deep  breath,  with  the  tape  merely  laid  on  tbQ 


THE  EX  ERH DAY  COOK-BOOK. 


293 


body  as  if  measuring  for  the  quantity  of  braid  to  go 
round  a dress,  and  mark  the  result.  The  injury  done 
by  stays  is  so  entirely  internal  that  it  is  not  strange 
that  the  maladies  caused  by  wearing  them  should  be 
attributed  to  every  reason  under  the  sun  except  the 
true  one,  which  is,  briefly,  that  all  the  internal  organs, 
being  by  them  displaced,  are  doing  their  work  imper- 
fectly and  under  the  least  advantageous  conditions; 
and  are,  therefore,  exactly  in  the  state  most  favorable 
to  the  development  of  disease,  whether  hereditary  or 
otherwise. — Macmillan's  Magazine. 

TO  MAKE  THE  SLEEVES. 

As  to  sleeves.  Measure  from  the  shoulder  to  the 
elbow  and  again  from  elbow  to  the  wrist.  Lay  these 
measurements  on  any  sleeve  patterns  you  may  have, 
and  lengthen  or  shorten  accordingly.  The  sleeve  is 
cut  in  two  pieces,  the  top  of  the  arm  and  the  under 
part,  which  is  about  an  inch  narrower  than  the  outside, 
in  joining  the  two  together,  if  the  sleeve  is  at  all  tight, 
the  upper  part  is  slightly  fulled  to  the  lower  at  the 
elbow.  The  sleeve  is  sewn  to  the  armhole  with  no 
cordings  now,  and  the  front  seam  should  be.  about  two 
inches  in  front  of  the  bodice. 

Bodices  are  now  worn  very  tight-fitting,  and  the 
French  stretch  the  material  well  on  the  cross  before 
beginning  to  cut  out,  and  in  cutting  allow  the  lining  to 
be  slightly  pulled,  so  that  when  on,  the  outside  stretches 
to  it  and  insures  a better  fit.  An  experienced  eye  can 
tell  a French-cut  bodice  at  once,  the  front  side  pieces 
being  always  on  the  cross.  In  dress  cutting  and  fit- 
ting, as  in  everything  else,  there  are  failures  and  dis- 
couragements, but  practice  overrules  these  little  mat- 
ters, and  ‘ trying  again”  brings  a sura  reward  in  succ/'sf, 

A sensible  suggestion  is  made  in.  regard  to  the 
In  negk^  of  dresses  for  momiug  wear*  Plain  colom 


THE  EVERYDAY  COOK-BOOK. 


291 

have  Luiher  a stiff  a[>pearance,  tulle  or  crepe  lisse  fril 
ling  are  expensive  and  frail,  so  it  is  a good  idea  to  pur- 
chase a few  yards  of  really  good  washing  lace,  about  an 
inch  and  a half  in  depth;  quill  or  plait  and  cut  into 
suitable  lengths  to  tack  around  the  necks  of  dresses. 
This  can  be  easily  removed  and  cleaned  when  soiled. 
A piece  of  soft  black  Spanish  lace,  folded  loosely  around 
the  throat  close  to  the  frillings,  but  below  it,  looks  very 
pretty ; or  you  may  get  three  yards  of  scarf  lace,  trim 
the  ends  with  frillings,  place  it  around  the  neck,  leav- 
ing nearly  all  the  length  in  the  right  hand,  the  end 
lying  upon  the  left  shoulder  being  about  half  a yard 
lorg.  Wind  the  larger  piece  twice  around  the  throat, 
in  loose,  soft  folds,  and  festoon  the  other  yard  and  a 
half,  and  fasten  with  brooch  or  flower  at  the  side- 
— Philadelphia  Times, 

ALL  ABOUT  KITCHEN  WORK. 

A lady  who  for  a time  was  compelled  to  do  all  of  her 
own  kitchen  work  says.  ‘Tf  every  iron,  pot,  pan, 
kettle  or  any  utensil  used  in  the  cooking  of  food,  ibe 
washed  as  soon  as  emptied,  and  while  still  hot,  half  the 
labor  will  be  saved.”  It  is  a simple  habit  to  acquire, 
and  the  washing  of  pots  and  kettles  by  this  means  loses 
some  of  its  distasteful  aspects.  No  lady  seriously  ob- 
jects to  washing  and  wiping  the  crystal  and  silver,  biit 
to  tackle  the  black,  greasy,  and  formidable-looking  iron- 
ware of  the  kitchen  takes  a good  deal  of  sturdy  brawn 
and  muscle  as  well  as  common-sense. 

If  the  range  be  wiped  carefully  with  brown  paper, 
after  cooking  greasy  food,  it  can  be  kept  bright  with 
little  difficulty. 

Stoves  and  ranges  should  be  kept  free  from  soot  in 
all  compartments.  A clogged  hot-air  passage  will  pr9< 
vent  any  oven  from  baking  well. 

When  the  draught  is  imperfect  the  defect  frequently 


TEE  EVERYDAY  COOK-BOOK. 


295 


arises  from  the  chimney  being  too  low.  To  remedy 
the  evil  the  chimney  should  be  built  up,  or  a chimney- 
pot added. 

It  is  an  excellent  plan  for  the  mistress  to  acquaint 
herself  with  the  practical  workings  of  her  range,  unless 
her  servants  are  exceptionally  good,  for  many  hin- 
drances to  weU-cooked  food  arises  from  some  misun- 
standing  of,  or  imperfection  in,  this  article. 

A clean,  tidy  kitchen  can  only  be  secured  by  having 
a place  for  everything  and  everything  in  its  place,  and 
by  frequent  Hcourings  of  the  room  and  utensils. 

A hand-towel  and  basin  are  needed  in  every  kitchen 
for  the  use  of  the  cook  or  house-worker. 

Unless  dkh-towels  are  washed,  scalded  and  thor- 
oughly dried  daily,  they  become  musty  and  unfit  for 
use,  as  also  the  dish-cloth. 

Cinders  make  a very  hot  fire — one  particularly  good 
for  ironing  days. 

Milk  ke^ps  from  souring  longer  in  a shallow  pan 
than  in  a milk  pitcher.  Deep  pans  make  an  equal 
amount  of  cream. 

Hash  smoothly  plastered  down  will  sour  more  readily 
than  if  left  in  broken  masses  in  the  chopping  bowl, 
each  mass  being  well  exposed  to  the  air. 

Sauce,  plain,  and  for  immediate  use,  should  not  be 
put  into  a jar  and  covered  when  warm,  else  it  will 
change  and  ferment  very  quickly.  It  will  keep  -some 
days  with  care  in  the  putting  up.  Let  it  stand  until 
perfectly  cold,  then  put  into  a stone  jar. 

To  scatter  the  Philadelphia  brick  over  the  scouring 
board  onto  the  floor,  to  leave  the  soap  in  the  bottom  of 
the  scrubbing  pail,  the  sapolio  in  the  basin  of  water, 
and  to  spatter  the  black  lead  or  stove  polish  on  the 
floor  are  wasteful,  slatternly  habits. 

A olQok  in  the  kitoheu  is  both  useful  and  necessary. 


295 


TBE  ETEnYDAY  COOK  BOOK, 


A NICE  CLOTHES  I^RAME. 

Our  kitc?hen  is  very  small ; to  small,  in  fact,  to  be 
very  comfortable  in,  and  moreover,  has  to  serve  the 
double  purpose  of  kitchen  and  laundry.  There  was  no 
room  to  spare  for  the  large  clothes-horse  we  had  been 
accustomed  to  use,  nor  even  for  a smaller  clothes-screen 
we  thought  of  purchasing.  In  this  emergency  we  hap- 
pened upon  a nice  frame,  which  consists  of  bars  of 
wood  secured  at  one  end  in  an  iron  clamp,  which  screws 
on  the  side  of  a window  frame.  These  bars  move 
freely  around,  and  quite  a respectable  sized  ironing  can 
be  aired  upon  them.  We  found  they  were,  invented 
and  made  by  a dealer  in  the  country  who  had  no  pat- 
ent upon  them,  and  so,  of  course,  his  sales  must  be 
limited,  yet  they  are  very  convenient.  The  clothes  are 
hung  <juite  out  of  the  way,  and  can  be  well  aired. 

KEEP  THE  CELLAR  CLEAN. 

A great  deal  of  the  sickness  families  suffer  could  be 
easily  traced  to  the  cellar.  The  cellar  not  unusually 
opens  into  the  kitchen,  the  kitchen  is  heated,  and  the 
cellar  is  not. 

Following  natural  laws,  the  colder  air  of  the  cellar 
will  rush  to  take  the  place  of  the  warmer,  and,  there- 
fore, lighter  air  of  the  kitchen.  This  would  be  well 
enough  if  the  cellar  air  was  pure,  but  often  it  is  not; 
partly  decayed  vegetables  may  be  there,  or  rotten 
wood,  etc.  A day  should  be  taken  to  throw  out  and 
carry  away  all  dirt,  rotten  woods,  decaying  vegetables, 
and  other  accumulations  which  have  gathered  there. 
Brush  down  the  cobwebs,  and  with  a bucket  of  lime 
give  the  walls  and  ceiling  a good  coat  of  whitewash. 
If  a whitewash  brush  is  not  at  band  take  an  old  broom 
that  the  good  wife  has  worn  out,  and  spread  the  whde- 
wetsh  oa  thick  aad  strong.  It  will  swcotoa  up  the  m 


tBB  EVERYDAY  OOOg  BOOK. 


^1 

in  the  cellar,  the  parlor,  and  the  bedrooms,  and  it  may 
save  the  family  from  the  aflOiictions  of  fevers,  diphtheria 
and  doctors. 

SUNLIT  ROOMS. 

No  article  of  furniture  should  be  put  in  a room  that 
will  not  stand  sunlight,  for  every  room  in*  a dwelling 
should  have  the  windows  so  arranged  that  some  time 
during  the  day  a flood  of  sunlight  will  force  itself  into 
the  apartments.  The  importance  of  admitting  the  light 
of  the  sun  freely  to  all  parts  of  our  dwellings  cannot  be 
too  highly  estimated.  Indeed,  perfect  health  is  nearly 
as  much  dependent  on  pure  sunlight  as  it  is  on  pure 
air.  Sunlight  should  never  be  excluded  except  when 
80  bright  as  to  be  uncomfortable  to  the  eyes.  And 
walks  should  be  in  bright  sunlight,  so  that  the  eyes 
are  protected  by  veil  or  parasol  when  inconveniently 
intense.  A sun-bath  is  of  more  importance  in  pre* 
serving  a healthful  condition  of  the  body  than  is  gen- 
erally understood. 

A sun-bath  costs  nothing,  and  that  is  a misfortune, 
for  people  are  deluded  with  the  idea  that  those  things 
only  can  be  good  or  useful  which  cost  money.  But 
remember  that  pure  water,  fresh  air  and  sunlit  homes 
kept  free  from  dampness,  will  secure  you  from  many 
heavy  bills  of  the  doctors  and  give  you  health  and  vigor, 
which  no  money  can  procure.  It  is  a well  established 
fact  that  people  who  live  much  in  the  sun  are  usually 
stronger  and  more  healthy  than  those  whose  occupa- 
tions deprive  them  of  sunlight.  And  certainly  there 
is  nothing  strange  in  the  result,  since  the  same  law  ap- 
plies with  nearly  equal  force  to  every  animate  thing  in 
UHture.  It  is  quite  easy  to  arrange  an  isolated  dwelling 
so  that  every  room  may  be  flooded  with  sunlight  some 
time  in  the  day,  and  it  is  possible  many  town  housea 
could  be  so  built  as  to  admit  more  light  than  they  ncm 
receive.  ' 


THE  EVERYDAY  COOE  BOOK. 
PLEASANT  HOMES. 

Handsome  furniture  will  not,  unaided,  make  rooms 
cheerful.  The  charm  of  a cosy  home  rests  principally 
with  its  mistress.  If  she  is  fortunate  enough  to  have 
sunny  rooms,  her  task  is  half  done.  In  apartments 
into  which  the  sun  never  shines  recourse  must  be  had 
to  various  devices  to  make  up,  so  far  as  may  be,  for 
this  grave  lack.  A sunless  room  should  have  bright 
and  joyous  color  in  its  furnishings.  The  walls  should 
be  warmly  tinted,  the  curtains  give  a roseate  glow  to 
the  light  that  passes  through  them.  An  open  fire  may 
diffuse  the  sunshine  but  lately  imprisoned  in  oak  and 
hickory,  or  ages  ago  locked  up  in  anthracite.  Ferne- 
ries and  shade-loving  plants  may  contribute  their  gen- 
tle cheer  to  the  room  and  suggest  quite  forest  nooks. 
An  attractive  room  need  not  be  too  orderly.  A book 
left  lying  on  the  table,  a bit  of  needle- work  on  (he 
window-sill,  an  open  piano,  may  indicate  the  tastes  and 
occupations  of  the  inmates,  without  suggesting  that 
there  is  not  a place  for  everything  in  that  room.  There 
is  such  a thing  as  being  too  neat  and  nice  to  take  com- 
fort in  everyday  life,  and  this  is  anything  but  cheerful. 
And  then  there  is  such  a thing  as  being  so  disorderly 
and  negligent  that  comfort  and  cheer  are  impossible. 
If  the  house-mother  cannot  rest  while  there  is  a finger- 
mark on  the  paint  or  a spot  on  the  window-panes,  she 
may  make  a neat  room,  but  her  splint  will  keep  it  from 
ever  being  cheerful.  If  she  has  no  care  for  the  “looks 
of  things”  her  failure  will  be  equally  sure.  A bird 
singing  in  the  window,  an  aquarium  on  the  table  in 
some  corner,  plants  growing  and  blooming,  domestic 
pets  moving  about  as  if  at  home,  these  give  life  and 
brightness  to  an  apartment,  and  afford  constant  oppor- 
tunities for  the  pleasantest  occupation  and  companion- 
ship. Books  people  a room,  and  pictures  on  the  walls, 
if  selected  with  taste,  are  ever  fresh  sources  of  enjoy- 


THE  JEVEICVDAY  COOKBOOK.  m 

incnt  Y(/u  may  gauge  the  refinement  and  civilization 
of  a family  hy  these  infallible  tests,  unless  they  have 
been  selected  by  some  outsider.  Bits  of  embroidery, 
of  scroll-work,  and  a thousand  tasteful  devices  may 
contribute  to  the  charm  of  a room  and  make  it  irresist- 
ibly attractive. 

HOW  TO  BE  HANDSOME. 

Where  is  the  woman  who  would  not  be  beautiful  ? 
If  such  there  be — but  no,  she  does  not  exist  From 
that  memorable  day  when  the  Queen  of  Sheba  made  a 
formal  call  on  the  late  lamented  King  Solomon  until 
the  recent  advent  of  the  Jersey  Lily,  the  power  of 
beauty  has  controlled  the  fate  of  dynasties  and  the 
lives  of  men.  How  to  be  beautiful,  and  consequently 
powerful,  is  a question  of  far  greater  importance  to  the 
feminine  mind  than  predestination  or  any  other  abstract 
subject.  If  women  are  to  govern,  control,  manage,  in- 
fluence and  retain  the  adoration  of  husbands,  fathers, 
brothers,  lovers,  or  even  cousins,  they  must  look  their 
prettiest  at  all  times. 

All  w^omen  cannot  have  good  features,  but  they  can 
look  well,  and  it  is  possible  to  a great  extent  to  correct 
deformity  and  develop  much  of  the  figure.  The  first 
step  to  good  looks  is  good  health,  and  the  first  element 
of  health  is  cleanliness.  Keep  clean — wash  freely, 
bathe  regularly.  All  the  skin  wants  is  leave  to  act, 
and  it  takes  care  of  itself.  In  the  matter  of  baths  we 
do  not  strongly  advocate  a plunge  in  ice-cold  water;  it 
takes  a woman  with  some  of  the  clear  grit  that  Robert 
Collyer  loves  to  dilate  on  and  a strong  constitution  to 
endure  it.  If  a hot  bath  be  used,  let  it  come  before  re- 
tiring, as  there  is  lessdanger  of  taking  cold  afterwards ; 
and,  besides,  the  body  is  weakened  by  the  ablution  and 
needs  immediate  rest.  It  is  well  to  use  a flesh-brush, 
and  aftei  w^ards  rinse  off  the  soap-suds  by  briskly  rub* 


300 


THE  EVERYDAY  COOK  BOOK. 


bing  tbe  body  with  a pair  of  coarse  toilet  gloves.  The 
most  important  part  of  a bath  is  the  drying.  Every 
part  of  the  body  should  be  rubbed  to  a glowing  red- 
ness, using  a coarse  crash  towel  at  the  finish.  If  suf- 
ficient friction  cannot  be  given,  a small  amount  of  bay 
rum  applied  with  the  palm  of  the  hand  will  be  found 
efficacious.  Ladies  who  have  ample  leisure  and  who 
lead  methodical  lives  take  a plunge  or  sponge  bath 
three  times  a week,  and  a vapor  or  sun  bath  every  day. 
To  facilitate  this  very  beneficial  practice  a south  or 
east  apartment  is  desirable.  The  lady  denudes  herself, 
takes  a seat  near  the  window,  and  takes  in  the  warm 
rays  of  the  sun.  The  effect  is  both  beneficial  and  de- 
lightful. If,  however,  she  be  of  a restless  disposition, 
she  may  dance,  instead  of  basking,  in  the  sunlight. 
Or,  if  she  be  not  fond  of  dancing,  she  may  improve  the 
shining  hours  by  taking  down  her  hair  and  brushing  it, 
using  sulphur  water,  pulverized  borax  dissolved  in 
alcohol,  or  some  similar  dressing.  It  would  be  surpris- 
ing to  many  ladies  to  see  her  carefully  wiping  the  sep- 
arate locks  on  a clean,  white  towel  until  the  dust  of  the 
previous  day  is  entirely  removed.  With  such  care  it 
is  not  necessary  to  wash  the  head,  and  the  hair  under 
this  treatment  is  invariably  good. 

One  of  the  most  useful  articles  of  the  toilet  is  a bot- 
tle of  ammonia,  and  any  lady  who  has  once  learned  its 
value  will  never  be  without  it.  A few  drops  in  the 
water  takes  the  place  of  the  usual  amount  of  soap,  and 
cleans  out  the  pores  of  the  skin  as  well  as  a bleach  will 
do.  Wash  the  face  with  a flesh-brush,  and  rub  the  lips 
well  to  tone  their  color.  It  is  well  to  bathe  the  eyes 
before  putting  in  the  spirits,  and  if  it  is  desirable  to 
increase  their  brightness,  this  may  be  done  by  dashing 
soapsuds  into  them.  Always  rub  the  eyes,  in  washing, 
toward  the  nose.  Iv  the  eyebrows  are  inclined  to 
spread  irregularly,  pinch  the  hairs  together  where 
thickest.  If  they  show  a tendency  to  meet,  this  con- 


tut:  EVERYDAY  COOK  BOOK, 


BOi 


tact  may  be  avoided  by  pulling  out  the  hairs  every 
morning  before  the  toilet. 

The  dash  of  Orientalism  in  costume  and  lace  now 
turns  a lady’s  attention  to  her  eyelashes,  which  are 
worthless  if  not  long  and  drooping.  Indeed,  so  preva- 
lent is  the  desire  for  this  beautiful  feature  that  hair- 
dressers and  ladies’  artists  have  scores  of  customers 
under  treatment  for  invigorating  their  stunted  eye- 
lashes and  eyebrows.  To  obtain  these  fringed  cur- 
tains, anoint  the  roots  with  a balsam  made  of  two 
drachms  of  nitric  oxide  of  mercury  mixed  with  one  ©f 
leaf  lard.  After  an  application  wash  the  roots  with  a 
camel’s  hair  brush  dipped  in  warm  milk.  Tiny  scis- 
sors are  used,  with  which  the  lashes  are  carefully  but 
slightly  trimmed  every  other  day.  When  obtained, 
refrain  from  rubbing  or  even  touching  the  lids  with 
the  finger-nails.  There  is  more  beauty  in  a pair  of 
well-kept  eyebrows  and  full,  sweeping  eyelashes  than 
people  are  aware  of,  and  a very  inattractive  and  lustre- 
less eye  assumes  new  beauty  when  it  looks  out  from 
beneath  elongated  fringes.  Many  ladies  have  a habit 
of  rubbing  the  corners  of  their  eyes  to  remove  the  dust 
that  will  frequently  accumulate  there.  Unless  this 
operation  is  done  with  little  friction  it  will  be  found 
that  the  growth  of  hair  is  very  spare,  and  in  that  case, 
it  will  become  necessary  to  pencil  the  barren  corners. 
Instead  of  putting  cologne  water  on  the  handkerchief^ 
which  has  cOme  to  be  considered  a vulgarism  among 
ladies  of  correct  tastes,  the  perfume  is  spent  on  the 
eyebrows  and  lobes  of  the  ears. 

If  commenced  in  youth,  thick  lips  may  be  reduced 
by  compression,  and  thin  linear  ones  are  easily  modified 
by  suction.  This  draws  the  blood  to  the  surfaces,  and 
produces  at  fi»rst  a temporary  and,  later,  a permanent 
inflation.  It  is  a mistaken  belief  that  biting  the  lips 
reddens  them.  The  skin  of  the  lips  is  very  thin/ren- 
dering  them  extremely  susceptible  to  organic  derange. 


.i(j2  THE  EVERYDAY  COOK-BOOK 

mont,  and  if  the  atmosphere  does  not  cause  chaps  or 
parchment,  the  result  of  such  harsh  treatment  wUl  de- 
veyope  into  swelling  or  the  formation  of  scars.  Above 
al)  things,  keep  a sweet  breath. 

Everybody  cannot  have  beautiful  hands,  but  there 
is  no  plausible  reason  for  their  being  ill-kept.  Red 
hands  may  be  overcome  by  soaking  the  feet  in  hot  wa- 
ter as  often  as  possible.  If  the  skin  is  hard  and  dry, 
use  tar  or  oat-meal  soap,  saturate  them  with  glycerine, 
and  wear  gloves  in  bed.  Never  bathe  them  in  hot  wa- 
ter and  w^ash  no  oftener  than  is  necessary.  There  are 
dOirens  of  women  with  soft,  white  hands  who  do  not  put 
thv>m  in  water  once  a month.  Rubber  gloves  are  worn 
in  making  the  toilet,  and  they  are  cared  for  by  an  oint- 
ment of  glycerine  and  rubbed  dry  with  chamois-skin 
or  cotton  flannel.  The  same  treatment  is  not  unfre- 
quenlly  applied  to  the  face  with  the  most  successful 
res^ults.  If  such  methods  are  used,  it  would  be  just  as 
we^l  to  keep  the  knowledge  of  it  from  the  gentlemen. 

know  of  one  beautiful  lady  who  has  not  washed  her 
face  for  three  years,  yet  it  is  always  clean,  rosy,  sweet, 
and  kissable.  With  some  of  her  other  secrets  she  gave 
it  t;0  her  lover  for  safe  keeping.  Unfortunately,  it 
prt>ved  to  be  her  last  gift  to  that  gentleman,  who  de- 
cla^’ed  in  a subsequent  note  that  ‘T  cannot  reconcile 
my  heart  and  my  manhood  to  a woman  who  can  get 
along  without  washing  her  face.” 

SOME  OF  THE  SECRETS  OF  BEAUTY. 

There  is  as  much  a “fashion”  in  complexion  as  there 
is  in  bonnets  or  boots.  Sometimes  nature  is  the  mode, 
sometimes  art.  Just  now  the  latter  is  in  the  ascend- 
ant. thougli,  as  a rule,  only  in  that  inferior  phase  which 
has  not  reached  the  “concealment  of  art” — the  point 
where  extremes  meet  and  the  perfection  of  artifice  pre- 
sents all  the  appearance  of  artlessness.  No  one  of  an 


THE  EVERYDAY  COOK  BOOK.  ^3 

observant  turn  of  mind,  who  is  accustomed  to  the  sight 
of  English  maids  and  matrons,  can  deny  that  making- 
up  as  at  present  practiced,  partakes  of  the  amateurish 
elt/ment.  Impossible  reds  and  whites  grow  still  moie 
impossibly  red  and  white  from  week  to  week  under  the 
uii'^killed  hands  of  the  wearer  of  ‘‘false  colors,  ’ who 
doft^s  not  like  to  ask  for  advice  on  so  delicate  a subject, 
fo^'.  even  were  she  willing  to  confess  to  the  practice, 
the  imputation  of  experience  conveyed  in  the  asking 
for  counsel  might  be  badly  received,  and  would  scarce- 
ly be  in  good  taste. 

’ihe  prevalent  and  increasing  short-sightedness  of 
ou>*  times  is,  perhaps,  partly  the  cause  of  the  excessive 
usv^  of  rouge  and  powder.  The  wielder  of  the  powder 
pu'f  sec  s herself  afar  off,  as  it  were.  She  knows  that 
sho  cannot  judge  of  the  effect  of  her  complexion  with 
he^  face  almost  touching  its  reflection  in  the  glass,  and, 
standing  about  a yard -off,  she  naturally  accentuates  her 
rones  and  lilies  in  a way  that  looks  very  pleasing  to 
her,  but  is  rather  startling  to  any  one  with  longer 
sight.  Nor  can  she  tone  down  her  rouge  with  the 
pondered  hair  that  softened  the  artificial  coloring  of 
her  grandmother  when  she  had  her  day.  Powder  is 
on  y occasionally  worn  with  evening  dress,  and  it  is  by 
daylight  that  those  dreadful  bluish  reds  and  whites  look 
thrir  worst. 

On  the  other  hand,  there  are  some  women  so  clever 
ati:naking  up  their  faces  that  one  almost  feels  inclined 
to  ti^ondone  the  practice  in  admiration  of  the  result. 
These  are  the  small  minority,  and  are  likely  to  remain 
so  for  their  secret  is  of  a kind  unlikely  to  be  shared. 
The  closest  inspection  of  these  cleverly  managed  com- 
plexions reveals  no  trace  of  art. 

Notwithstanding  the  reticence  of  these  skilled  art- 
ists, an  occasional  burst  of  confidence  has  revealed  a 
few  of  their  means  of  accomplishing  the  great  end  of 
looking  pretty.  “Do  you  often  do  that?”  said  one  of 


THE  EVERYDAY  COOK-BOOE. 


m 

those  clever  ones,  a matron  of  37,  who  looked  like  a 
girl  of  19,  to  a friend  who  was  vigorously  rubbing  her 
cheeks  with  a coarse  towel  after  a plentiful  application 
of  cold  water. 

‘‘Yes,  every  time  I come  in  from  a walk,  ride,  or 
drive.  Why?” 

“Well,  no  wonder  you  look  older  than  you  are.  You 
are  simply  wearing  your  face  out!” 

“But  I must  wash?” 

“Certainly  but  not  like  that.  Take  a leaf  out  of  my 
book;  never  wash  your  fafi^e  just  before  going  out  into 
the  fresh  air,  or  just  after  coming  in.  Nothing  is  more 
injurious  to  the  skin.  Come  to  the  glass.  Do  you 
notice  a drawn  look  about  your  eyes  and  a general 
streakiness  in  the  cheeks?  That  is  the  result  of  your 
violent  assault  upon  your  complexion  just  now.  You 
look  at  this  moment  ten  years  older  than  you  did  twen- 
ty minutes  ago  in  the  park.” 

“Well,  I really  do.  I look  old  enough  to  be  your 
mother;  but  then,  you  are  wonderful.  You  always 
look  so  young  and  fresh!” 

“Because  I never  treat  my  poor  face  so  badly  as  you 
do  yours.  I use  rain-water,  and  if  I cannot  get  that, 
I have  the  water  filtered.  When  I dress  for  dinner  I 
always  wash  my  face  with  milk,  adding  just  enough 
hot  water  to  make  it  pleasant  to  use.  A very  soft 
sponge  and  very  fine  towel  take  the  place  of  your  ter- 
rible huckaback  arrangement.” 

Two  or  three  years  ago  a lady  of  Oriental  parentage 
on  her  father’s  side'  spent  a season  in  London  society. 
Her  complexion  was  brown,  relieved  by  yellow,  her 
features  large  and  irregular,  but  redeemed  by  a pair  of 
lovely  and  expressive  eyes.  So  perfect  was  her  taste 
in  dress  that  she  always  attracted  admiration  wherever 
she  went.  Dressed  in  rich  dark  browm  or  dullest 
crimsons  or  russets,  so  that  no  one  ever  noticed  much 
what  she  wore,  she  so  managed  that  suggestions  and 


THE  EVERYDAY  COOK-BOOK, 


305 


liints — no  ^nore — of  brilliant  amber  or  pomegranate 
Bcarlet  should  appear  just  where  they  imparted  bril- 
liaj&cy  to  her  deep  coloring,  and  abstract  the  yellow 
from  her  skin.  A knot  of  old  gold  satin  ucder  the  rim 
of  her  bonnet,  another  at  her  throat,  and  others  in 
among  the  lace  at  her  wrists,  brightened  up  the  other- 
wise subdued  tinting  of  her  costume,  so  that  it  always 
looked  as  though  it  had  been  designed  expressly  for 
her  by  some  great  colorist.  Here  rouge  was  unneces- 
sary. The  surroundings  were  arranged  to  suit  the 
complexion,  instead  of  the  complexion  to  suit  the  sur- 
roundings. There  can  be  no  doubt  as  to  which  is  the 
meithod  which  best  becomes  the  gentlewoman. 

Jn  addition  to  the  disagreeable  sensation  of  making- 
upif^  it  must  be  remembered  that  the  use  of  some  of  the 
white  powders  eventually  destroys  the  texture  of  the 
skibn,  rendering  it  rough  and  coarse.  Rimmel,  the  cel- 
ebii^ated  perfumer,  in  his  ‘‘Book  of  Perfumes,”  says  that 
rouge,  being  composed  of  cochineal  and  saffron,  is 
harmless,  but  that  white  cosmetics  consist  occasionally 
oi  deleterious  substances  which  may  injure  the  health. 
H#  advises  actors  and  actresses  to  choose  cosmetics, 
especially  the  white,  with  the  greatest  care,  and  women 
of  the  world,  who  wish  to  preserve  the  freshness  of 
thd^'r  complexion,  to  observe  the  following  recipe: 
Opfim  air,  rest,  exercise,  and  cold  water.  In  another 
part  of  this  pleasant  book  the  author  says  that  schonada, 
a wsmetic  used  among  the  Arabs,  is  quite  innocuous 
and  at  the  same  time  effectual.  “This  cream,  which 
consists  of  sublimated  benzoin,  acts  upon  the  skin  as  a 
slight  stimulant,  and  imparts  perfectly  natural  colors 
during  some  hours  without  occasioning  the  inconve- 
nieiices  with  which  European  cosmetics  may  justly  be 
reproached.”  It  is  a well-known  fact  that  bismuth,  a 
white  powder  containing  sugar  of  lead,  injures  the 
nerve-centres  when  constantly  employed,  and  ocoastoH; 
causes  paralysis  itseli 


306 


THE  EVERYDAY  COOK  BOOK. 


In  getting  up  the  eyes,  nothing  is  injurious  thafi  is 
not  dropped  into  them.  The  use  of  hohl  or  Jwhol  is 
quite  harmless,  and,  it  must  be  confessed,  very  effec- 
tive when  applied — as  the  famous  recipe  for  salad 
dressing  enjoins  with  regard  to  the  vinegar— by  the 
hand  of  a miser.  Modern  Egyptian  ladies  make  their 
kohol  of  the  smoke  produced  by  burning  almonds.  A 
small  bag  holding  the  bottle  of  kohol  and  a pin,  with  a 
rounded  point  with  which  to  apply  it,  form  part  of  the 
toilet  paraphernalia  of  all  the  beauties  of  Cairo,  v/ho 
make  the  immense  mistake  of  getting  up  their  eyes  in 
an  exactly  similar  manner,  thus  trying  to  reduce  the 
endless  variety  of  nature  to  one  common  pattern,  a 
mistake  that  may  be  accounted  for  by  the  fact  that  the 
Arabs  believe  kohol  to  be  a sovereign  specific  against 
opthalmia.  Their  English  sisters  often  make  the  same 
mistake  without  the  same  excuse,  A hairpin  steeped 
in  lampblack  is  the  usual  method  of  darkening  the  eyes 
in  England,  retribution  following  sooner  or  later  in  the 
shape  of  a total  loss  of  the  eyelashes.  Eau  de  Cologne 
is  occasionally  dropped  into  the  eyes,  with  the  effect  of 
making  them  brighter.  The  operation  is  painful,  and 
it  is  said  that  half  a dozen  drops  of  whiskey  and  the 
same  quantity  of  Eau  de  Cologne,  eaten  on  a lump  of 
sugar,  is  quite  as  effective. 

HEADACHE. 

One  of  our  English  contemporaries  has  wisely  been 
devoting  some  thought  and  space  to  the  common  and 
distressing  fact  that  a great  many  English  w^omen  suffer 
from  headache.  The  same  trouble  prevails  in  America, 
and  men,  no  matter  how  selfish  they  maybe,  are  deeply 
concerned  about  it,  for  a wife  with  a headache  cannot 
be  companionable;  the  best  of  sweethearts  wdth  a head- 
ache is  sure  to  be  unreasonable,  while  a lady  who  has 
neither  husband  or  other  special  cavalier  to  engross 
bei’  attention  can  r\uu  the  peace  of  mind  of  every  oa© 


THE  EVERYDAY  COOK-BOOK, 


m) 

she  meets  while  she  has  a headache  of  perceptible  size. 
No  amount  of  masculine  grumbling  is  likely  to  change 
all  this,  but  women  themselves  might  change  it  if  they 
would  comprehend  the  causes  of  the  malady,  and  then 
apply  their  nimble  wits  to  the  work  of  prevention  or 
cure. 

The  trouble  is  that  all  American  women  who  have 
headaches  live  indoors,  where  the  best  air  is  never 
good  and  the  worst  is  poison,  and  they  have  none  of 
the  exercise  which  saves  man  from  the  popular  femin- 
ine malady.  Were  a strong  man  to  eat  breakfast  at 
any  ordinary  American  table,  and  then  sit  down  at  a 
work-table  or  even  move  about  briskly  from  one  room 
to  another,  he  would  have  a splitting  headache  before 
noon,  and  the  chatter  of  his  innocent  children  would 
seem  to  be  the  jargon  of  fiends.  The  midday  meal 
would  increase  his  wretchedness,  and  by  dusk  he  would 
be  stretched  in  misery  upon  his  bed,  with  one  hand 
moping  his  forehead  with  ice-water,  while  the  other 
would  threaten  with  a club  or  pistol  any  one  who  dared 
to  enter  the  room  or  make  a noise  outside.  There  is 
no  reason  why  women  should  not  suffer  just  as  severely 
for  similar  transgressions  of  physical  law.  True,  in- 
door life  is  compulsory  for  a lai’ge  portion  every  day, 
but  special  physical  exercise  in  a well-aired  room  is 
within  the  reach  of  almost  every  woman,  and  so  is  a 
brisk  walk  in  garments  not  so  tight  as  to  prevent  free 
respiration.  There  is  very  little  complaint  at  summer 
resorts,  where  windows  are  always  open  and  games  and 
excursions  continually  tempt  women  who  do  not  value 
complexion  more  than  health.  Girls  who  ride,  row, 
sail,  and  shoot,  seldom  have  headaches;  neither  do 
those  unfortunate  enough  to  be  compelled  to  hoe  pota- 
toes or  play  Maud  Muller  in  hay-fields.  Let  women  of 
all  social  grades  remember  that  the  human  machine 
piusl  have  reasonable  ireatment,  and  be  Kept  at  wwkpr 


sm  THE  EVERDAY  COOK-BOOK. 

play,  to  keep  it  from  rusting,  then  headaches  will  be 
rare  enough  to  be  interesting. 

HIGH-HEELED  BOOTS  MUST  GO. 

A lady  looks  infinitely  taller  and  slimmer  in  a long 
dress  than  she  does  in  a short  costume,  and  there  is 
always  a way  of  showing  the  feet,  if  desired,  by  mak- 
ing the  front  quite  short,  which  gives,  indeed,  a more 
youthful  appearance  to  a train  dress.  The  greatest  at- 
tention must,  of  course,  be  paid  to  the  fee.t  with  these 
short  dresses,  and  I may  here  at  once  state  that  high 
heels  are  absolutely  forbidden  by  fashion.  Doctors, 
are  you  content?  Only  on  cheap  shoes  and  boots  are 
they  now  made,  and  are  only  worn  by  common  people. 
A good  bootmaker  will  not  make  high  heels  now,  even 
if  paid  double  price  to  do  so.  Ladies — that  is,  real 
ladies — now  wear  flat-soled  shoes  and  boots,  a la  Cin- 
derella. For  morning  walking,  boots  or  high  Moliere 
shoes  are  worn. 

If  you  wear  boots  you  may  wear  any  stockings  you 
like,  for  no  one  sees  them.  But  if  you  wear  shoes  you 
must  adapt  your  stockings  to  your  dress.  Floss  silk, 
Scotch  thread,  and  even  cotton  stockings  are  worn  for 
walking,  silk  stockings  have  returned  into  exclusively 
evening  wear.  Day  stockings  should  be  of  the  same 
color  as  the  dress,  but  they  may  be  shaded,  or  stripped, 
or  dotted,  just  as  you  please.  White  stockings  are  ab- 
solutely forbidden  tor  day  wear — no  one  wears  them— 
no  one  dares  wear  them  under  fashion's  interdiction, 

DON^T  STOOP. 

Grandmother  has  noticed  that  some  of  her  boys  lately 
have  acquired  a very  bad  habit.  They  go  about  with 
tlieir  backs  bent,  as  if  they  were  fifty  years  old,  and 
vrr^re  bearing  the  responsibilities  of  age  on  their  should- 
eiu  This  is  all  wrong,  ^tand  np  straight,  boysj 


THE  EVERYDAY  COOK  BOOK. 


809 


don’t  go  around  with  a “stoop  in  your  back,”  as  if  you 
had  a curvature  of  the  spine.  If  you  do,  depend  upon 
it,  you  will  have  it  sure  enough  long  before  you  get  to 
be  old.  Always  stand  erect,  and  when  you  walk,  throw 
back  your  shoulders,  and  take  that  kink  out  of  your 
backbone.  This  is  easier  said  than  done,  isn’t  it? 
Grandmother  will  tell  you  just  how  you  can  do  it,  and 
remember  every  word  she  says,  for  she  has  been 
through  it  all  herself,  and  has  straightened  up  many  a 
grandchild  in  more  respects  than  one.  Here  is  her 
rule: 

“THROW  UP  YOUR  OHIN!” 

The  whole  secret  of  standing  and  walking  erect  con- 
sists in  keeping  the  chin  well  away  from  the  breast. 
This  throws  the  head  upward  and  backward,  and  the 
shoulders  will  naturally  settle  backward  and  in  their 
true  position.  Those  who  stoop  in  walking  generally 
look  downward.  The  proper  way  is  to  look  straight 
ahead,  upon  the  same  level  with  your  eyes,  or  if  you 
are  inclined  to  stoop,  until  that  tendency  is  overcome, 
look  rather  above  than  below  the  level.  Mountaineers 
are  said  to  be  as  “straight  as  an  arrow,”  and  the  reason 
is  because  they  are  obliged  to  look  upward  so  much.  It 
is  simply  impossible  to  stop  in  walking  if  you  will  heed 
and  practice  this  rule.  You  will  notice  that  all  round 
shouldered  persons  carry  the  chin  near  the  breast  and 
pointed  downward.  Take  warning  in  time,  and  heed? 
grandmother’s  advice,  for  a bad  habit  is  more  easily 
prevented  than  cured.  The  habit  of  stooping  when  one 
walks  or  stands  is  a bad  habit  and  especially  hard  to, 
cure. 

MAKE  HOME  PLEASANT. 

A cheerful,  happy  home  is  the  greatest  safeguard 
against  temptations  for  the  young.  Parents  should 
©pare  no  pains  to  make  home  a cheerful  spot.  There 


310 


THE  EVERYDAY  COOK-BOOK. 


should  be  pictures  to  adorn  the  walls,  fl  )wers  to  culti- 
vate the  finer  sensibilities,  dominoes,  checkers,  and 
other  games,  entertaining  books  and  instructive  news- 
papers and  periodicals.  These  things,  no  doubt,  cost 
money,  but  not  a tithe  the  amount  that  one  of  the  less- 
er vices  will  cost — vices  which  are  sure  to  be  acquired 
away  from  home,  but  seldom  there.  Then  there  should 
be  social  pleasure — a gathering  of  young  and  old 
around  the  hearthstone,  a wrrm  welcome  to  the  neigh- 
bor who  drops  in  to  pass  a pleasant  hour.  There 
should  be  music  and  amusements  and  reading.  M^he 
tastes  of  all  should  be  consulted,  until  each  member  of 
the  family  looks  forward  to  the  hour  of  reunion  aro  und 
the  hearth  as  the  brightest  one  in  the  twenty-four. 
Wherever  there  is  found  a pleasant,  cheerful,  neat,  at- 
tractive, inexpensive  home,  there  you  may  be  sure  to 
find  the  abode  of  the  domestic  virtues;  there  will  be  no 
dissipated  husbands,  no  discontented  or  discouraijed 
wives,  no  *‘fast”  sons  or  frivolous  daughters. 

DINNER-TABLE  FANCIES. 

To  be  thoroughly  good  form  at  dinner  is  the  very  in- 
florescence of  civilized  life.  Like  many  other  regi  ila- 
tions  of  social  life,  dinner-table  etiquette  is  arbita  iry, 
but  not  to  know  certain  things  is  to  argue  yourself  un- 
known so  far  as  society  life  goes.  To  take  soup  pu  sh- 
ingthe  spoon  from  rather  than  toward  yourself;,  to 
touch  the  napkin  as  little  as  possible;  to  accept  or  de- 
cline what  is  offered  instantly  and  quietly;  these  and 
other  trifles  characterize  the  well-bred  diner-out.  The 
attempts  to  introduce  too  much  color  in  dinner-table 
decorations  are  rather  declining.  The  finest  white 
damask  still  holds  the  preference,  and  the  centre-piece 
of  plush  or  velvet  underlace  is  little  used  now.  Fewer 
flowers,  too,  are  seen,  and  those  in  very  low  forms.  The 
dessert  plates  come  in  deep  tones  in  Dresden  china,  and 


THE  EVERYDAY  COOK  BOOK. 


311 


the  doyley  on  which  the  finger-bowl  rests  should  be 
immediately  removed  with  the  bowl,  on  reaching  the 
guest.  The  latest  fashion  in  ice-cream  plates  is  the 
Bohemian  glass  in  oval  form  with  small  handles.  Menu 
cards,  hand-painted,  hold  the  preference,  but  many  are 
seen  on  tinted  cardboard  with  engraved  vignette  in  one 
corner  and  the  date  in  another. 

THE  USE  OF  AMMONIA  IN  BAKING  POW- 
DERS. 

The  recent  discoveries  in  science  and  cljemistry  are 
fast  revolutionizing  our  daily  domestic  economies.  Old 
naethods  are  giving  away  to  the  light  of  modern  inves- 
tigation, and  the  habits  and  methods  of  our  fathers  and 
mo' hers  are  stepping  d >wn  and  out,  to  be  succeded  by 
the  new  ideas,  v/ith  marvelous  rapidity.  In  no  depart- 
ment of  science,  however,  have  no  more  rapid  strides 
been  made  than  its  relations  to  the  preparation  and 
preservation  of  human  food.  Scientists,  having  dis- 
covered how  to  traverse  space,  furnish  heat,  and  beat 
time  itself,  by  the  application  of  natural  forces,  and  to 
do  a hundred  other  things  promotive  of  the  comfort  and 
happiness  of  the  human  kind,  are  naturally  turning 
their  attention  to  the  development  of  other  agencies 
and  powers  that  shall  add  to  the  years  during  which 
man  may  enjoy  the  blessings  set  before  him. 

Among  the  recent  discoveries  in  this  direction,  none 
is  more  important  than  the  uses  to  which  common 
ammonia  can  be  properly  put  as  a leavening  agent,  and 
which  indicate  that  this  familiar  salt  is  hereafter  to  per- 
fv)rm  an  active  part  in  the  preparation  of  our  daily 
food. 

The  carbonate  of  ammonia  is  an  exceedingly  volatile 
substance.  Place  a small  portion  of  it  upon  a knife 
and  hold  over  a flame,  and  it  will  almost  immediately 
be  entirely  developed  into  gas  and  pass  off  into  the  air. 


THE  EVERYDAY  COOK  BOOK, 


The  gas  thus  formed  is  a simple  composition  of  nitro- 
gen and  hydrogen.  No  residue  is  left  from  the  am- 
monia. This  gives  it  its  superiority  as  a leavening 
power  over  soda  and  cream  tartar  when  used  alone,  atid 
has  induced  its  use  as  a supplement  to  these  ardcles. 
A small  quantity  of  ammonia  in  the  dough  is  effective 
in  producing  bread  that  will  be  lighter,  sweeter,  and 
more  wholesome  than  that  risen  by  any  other  leaven^ 
ing  agent.  When  it  is  acted  upon  by  the  heat  of  bak- 
ing, the  leavening  gas  that  raises  the  dough  is  liberated. 
In  this  act  it  uses  itself  up,  as  it  were;  the  ammonia  is 
entirely  diffused,  leaving  no  trace  of  residuum  what- 
ever. The  light,  fluffy,  flaky  appearance,  so  desirable 
in  biscuits,  etc.,  and  so  sought  after  by  professional 
cooks,  is  said  to  be  imparted  to  to  them  only  by  the  use 
of  this  agent.  ^ 

The  bakers  and  baking  powder  manufacturers  pro- 
ducing the  finest  goods  have  been  quick  to  avail  them- 
selves of  this  useful  discovery,  and  the  handsomest  and 
best  bread  and  cake  are  now  largely  risen  by  the  aid  of 
ammonia,  combined,  of  course,  with  other  leavening 
material. 

Ammonia  is  one  of  the  best  known  products  of  the 
laboratory.  If,  as  seems  to  be  justly  claimed  for  it, 
the  application  of  its  properties  to  the  purposes  of  cook- 
ing results  in  giving  us  lighter  and  more  wholesome 
bread,  biscuit,  and  cake,  it  will  prove  a boon  to  dys- 
peptic humanity,  and  will  speedily  force  itself  into  gen- 
eral use  in  the  new  field  to  which  science  has  assigned 
it. 

LAUGHTER.! 

“The  laughter  of  girls  is,  and  ever  was,  among  the 
most  delightful  sounds  of  earth.”  Truly  there  is  noth- 
ing sweeter  or  pleasanter  to  the  ear  than  the  merry 
laugh  of  a happy,  joyous  girl,  and  nothing  dissipates 
gloom  aud  sadness  quicker,  and  drives  dull  care  away 


THE  EVERYDAY  COOK  BOOK. 


313 


like  a good,  hearty  laugh.  We  do  not  laugh  enough  ; 
nature  should  teach  us  this  lesson,  it  is  true;  the  earth 
needs  the  showers,  but  if  it  did  not  catch  and  hold  the 
sunshine,  too,  where  would  be  the  brightness  aud  beau- 
ty it  lavishes  upon  us?  Laugh  heartily,  laugh  often, 
girls;  not  boisterously,  but  let  the  gladness  of  your 
hearts  bubble  up  once  in  a while,  and  overflow  in  a 
glad,  mirthful  laugh. 


ITEMS  WORTH  REMEMBERING. 

A sun-bath  is  of  more  worth  than  much  warming  by 
the  fire. 

Books  exposed  to  the  atmosphere  keep  in  better  con- 
dition than  if  confined  in  a book-case. 

Pictures  are  both  for  use  and  ornament.  They  serve 
to  recall  pleasant  memories  and  scenes;  they  harmonize 
with  the  furnishing  of  the  rooms.  If  they  serve  neith^ 
er  of  these  purposes  they  are  worse  than  useless ; they 
only  help  fill  space  which  would  look  better  empty,  or 
gather  dust  and  make  work  to  keep  them  clean. 

A room  filled  with  quantities  of  trifling  ornaments 
has  the  look  of  a bazar  and  displays  neither  good  taste 
nor  good  sense.  Artistic  excellence  aims  to  have  all 
the  furnishings  of  a high  order  of  workmanship  com- 
bined with  simplicity,  while  good  sense  understands 
the  folly  of  dusting  a lot  of  rubbish. 

A poor  book  had  best  be  burned  to  give  place  to  a 
better,  or  even  to  an  empty  shelf,  for  the  fire  destroys 
its  poison,  and  puts  it  out  of  the  way  of  doing  harm. 

Better  economize  in  purchasing  of  furniture  or  car- 
pets tham  scrimp  in  buying  good  books  or  papers. 

Our  sitting-rooms  need  never  be  empty  of  guests  or 
our  libraries  of  society  if  the  company  of  good 
books  is  admitted  to  them. 


THE  EVERY  DAY  COOK-BOOK. 


SH 

THOSE  UNGRACEFUL  HABITS. 

A public  conveyance  brings  one  awkwardly  near  the 
faces  of  strangers.  Perhaps  from  sheer  insanity  one  is 
apt  to  take  undue  notice  o£  his  follow-passengers.  When 
glances  meet,  the  gaze  is  lowered  to  the  flounces  of  the 
lady  sealed  near,  or  to  the  trim,  polished  boot  of  a gent 
at  the  far  end  of  the  car.  There  are  nice  people  every- 
where, and  if  one  is  artistic  in  taste,  there  will  ever  be 
a looking  for  beauty  of  face  or  form,  in  dress,  or  car- 
riage, or  manner,  or  speech;  but  “why  is  the  fresh 
girl  face  so  often  marred  by  the  ugly  habit  of  cribbing  ?” 
“A  beautiful  woman,”  whispered  a friend,  and  the  eye 
was  attracted  toward  a grand  looking  lady  with  wide, 
white  forehead,  from  which  the  brown  glossy  hair  was 
smoothed  away  without  the  ghost  of  a crimp;  there 
were  pretty  arching  brows,  shading  lashes,  shapely 
nose,  but,  alas!  for  the  ruby  lips  bitten  and  moistened 
so  often  as  to  prevent  the  possibility  of  catching  the 
outline — the  profile  so  needful  to  the  sketcher  of  beau- 
ty. A poet  has  somewhere  said  that,  “affectation  be- 
gins with  the  mouth,”  but  “who  would  charge  the  gen- 
tle sex  with  vanity!” 

What!  To  redden  by  biting,  or  brighten  by  wet- 
ting; that  folly  could  not  be.  Let  us  rather  suppose 
the  fair  one  had  by  some  mishap  forgotten  to  lunch, 
and  all  this  is  due  to  the  gnawings  of  hunger.  While 
thus  seeking  to  palliate  the  fair  cribber,  a young  man 
becomes  noticeable  by  persistently  pulling  at  the  ends 
his  moustache,  chewing  them  in  a hungry  way,  now 
changing  the  exercise  by  twisting  them  to  needle-like 
points  which  he  seemed  to  be  coaxing  upward. 

“From  whence  has  come  this  ugly  habit?”  one  is 
fain  to  ask.  Certainly  not  from  pride.  A fine  flow- 
ing beard  and  full  moustache  ought  not  to  be  a cause 
of  folly  to  the  owner.  The  hairs  of  the  face,  given  to 
protect  the  throat  and  lungs,  never  to  be  shorn  in  the 


THE  EVERYDAY  COOK-BOOK 


815 


fcjeasons,  can  it  be  that  there  is  nutriment  in  them? 
While  thus  questioning,  the  writer’s  two  hands  were 
th^is  suddenly  jerked  from  his  side  pockets,  where  they 
had  been  comfortably  resting.  The  wife’s  gentle  re- 
monstrance had  been  brought  to  mind  by  the  entrance 
of  an  awkward  fellow,  with  hands  deeply  thrust  in  the 
po(jkets  of  his  torn  pants.  A caricature  of  one's  self 
is  often  a tacit  reproof.  That  very  morning  the  dear 
wife  had  said:  “Those  torn  side-pockets  are  the  most 
difficult  of  tears  to  mend.”  And  the  inward  monitor 
asked:  “From  whence  has  come  this  indolent  habit? 
From  love  of  ease  or  want  of  mittens,  which?  Perhaps 
indifference  of  the  patient  mender's.”  And  again  the 
monitor  asked: 

‘ ‘What  of  that  habit  not  com  parable  to  weeds  for 
growth  ?” 

'‘What  mean  you?”  was  meekly  asked. 

' ‘That  of  looking  well  to  one’s  own  faults,  that  les- 
sor the  hardest  and  the  latest  learned:  to  know  thy- 
seLl”  Then  writer  realized  that  he,  too,  was  not 
quJ  ite 


^fe.-  • 


"S^r- 


■.-/•  'L- 


INDEX 


BREAD  AND  BREAKFAST 


DISHES. 

PAGE. 

Yeast 

Plain  White  Family  Bread 130 

Graham  Bread 131 

Boston  Brown  Bread 131 

Corn  Bread 

Steamed  Brown  Bread  ...  .......  132 

Parker  House  Rolls 132 

French  Rolls 132 

Buns.... 133 

Biscuits 133 

To  make  Rusks 133 

Sweet  Milk  Gems 134 

Breakfast  Gems. 134 

Graham  Breakfast  Oakes 134 

Buckwheat  Cakes ..  134 

Flannel  Cakes 135 

Rice  Griddle  Cakes 136 

French  Pancakes. 136 

Pancakes 136 

Bread  Fritters 136 

Quick  Sally  Lunn 137 

Breakfast  Cake. 137 

Quick  Waffles . 137 

Johnny  Cake 137 

Mush 137 

Corn  Mush 138 

Graham  Mush  138 

CAKES. 

White  Lady  Cake 180 

Macaroons 180 

Almond  Icing 181 

To  Make  Icing  for  Cakes 181 

Loaf  Cake 182 

Rich  Bride  Cake.... 182 

Lady  Fingers 182 

Queen  Cake 182 

Chocolate  Macaroons 183 

Caramel  Cake 183 


Pound  Oaks ^ 184 


PAGK 

Cocoauut  Sponge  Cttke 184 

Cocoanut  Pound  Cake 185 

Cocoanut  Cup  Cake ^85 

Cocoanut  Drops..... ioo 

Citron  Heart  Cakes 1S6 

Imperial  Cakes..., ...  186 

Plum  Cakes 186 

Gold  and  Silver  Cakes 187 

To  Make  Small  Sponge  Cakes 187 

Lemon  Cheese  Cakes 183 

Snow  Cakes..... 188 

Tilden  Cakes 188 

Corn  Starch  Oak.  s 188 

Birthday  Cakes 189 

Naples  Biscuit 189 

Cake  Trifles 189 

Savoy  Cake 189 

Composition  Cake 190 

Almond  Cream  Cake 190 

Ice  Cream  Cake 190 

Economical  Cake 191 

Delicate  Cake 191 

Orange  Cake 191 

Jelly  Kisses . 192 

Fig  Cake 192 

Fried  Cake 192 

Cocoanut  Kisses 192 

California  Cake 193 

White  Mountain  Cake 193 

Lemon  Cake 193 

Strawberry  Short  Cake 193 

Marble  Cake 194 

White  Pound  Cake...... 194 

Nelly’s  Chocolate  Cake 194 

Rice  Cake 195 

Cream  Cake. 195 

Sponge  Cake....o 195 

Doughnuts 195 

Coffee  Cake 196 

Spice  Cake 196 

Soft  Ginger  Bread 196 


Sweet  StiMberry  Short  Cake 196 


tl 


INDE^. 


PAGE. 

Ginger  Nuts 196 

Ribbon  Cake 197 

Jelly  Roll 197 

Delicate  Crullers 198 

COSMETIQUES. 

Complexion  W ash 245 

To  Clear  a Tanned  Skin 245 

Oil  to  Make  the  Hair  Curl 245 

W rinkles  in  the  Skin 245 

Pearl  Water  for  the  Face 246 

Pearl  Dentifrice 246 

Wash  for  a Blotched  Face 246 

Face  Powder 246 

Bandoline 216 

A Good  Wash  for  the  Hair... 247 

DRINKS. 

To  Make  Green  Tea 232 

To  Make  Black  Tea—  Make  as  di- 
rected for  Green 232 

Iced  Tea. 232 

Coffee ........  233 

Chocolate 233 

Lemon  Syrup 233 

Strawberry  Syrup 234 

Raspberry  Syrup 234 

Strawberry  Sherbet 234 

Raspberry  Vinegar..... 235 

Lemonade.. 235 

Egg-Nog 235 

Raisin  Wine 235 

Currant  Wine 236 

Ginger  Wine..... 236 

Fino  Milk  Punch....  236 

Claret  Cup 237 

Roman  Punch. 237 

Cream  Nectar 237 

Red  Currant  Cordial 237 

Elderberry  Syrup 238 

DESSERT  and  TEA  DISHES. 

Boiled  Custard - .199 

Lemon  Custard ■ 199 

Snow  Custard 199 

Tapioca  Custard 200 

Blanc  Mange 201 

Rice  Blanc  Mange 201 

Apple  Tride...o.......^.  202 

Lemon  Trifle 202 

Floating  Island 203 

ApploSllOW.*«».f  ^ 


PAGBr 


Tropical  Snow 203 

Swiss  Cream 204 

Italian  Cream 204 

Whipped  Cream 204 

Tipsy  Cake 205 

Snow  Pyramids 205 

An  Excellent  Dessert 205 

Apple  Fritters 206 

Jelly  Cake  Fritters 206 

Black  Meringue 2:,6 

Charlotte  Russe 207 

Jellied  Grapes 20? 

Jelly  and  Custard 207 

Lemon  Toast.. 207 

Dish  of  Snowwhipped  Cream 208 

Omelet  for  Desert 208 

Jelly  Fritters 209 

FISH. 

Boiled  Salmon 34 

Broiled  Salmon. 34 

Baked  Salmon 34 

Salmon  Trout 35 

Spiced  Salmon  (Pickled) 35 

Salmon  and  Caper  Sauce 36 

Salmon  Cutlets 36 

Dried  or  Smoked  Salmon 36 

Boiled  Cod 37 

Cod  Pie 37 

Dried  Codfish 87 

Stewed  Salt  Ood 37 

Codfish  Cakes.... 38 

Boiled  Bass 38 

Fried  Bass 38 

To  Fry  or  Boil  Fish  Properly 39 

Baked  Black  Bass 39 

Broiled  Mackerel 39 

Salt  Mackerel  with  Cream  Sauce . . 40 

Boiled  Eels 41 

Fricasseed  Eels 41 

Fried  Eels 41 

Collared  Eels 41 

Fried  Trout 42 

Trout  in  Jelly  (or  other  Fish) 42 

Boiled  Trout 42 

Broiled  Trout 43 

Baked  Haddock 43 

Curried  Haddock 43 

FriAass<3d  Haddock-..  44 

) BroUed  Whita  Fifth  4# 


INDEX. 


PAGE. 

Bftied  White  Fish . 44 

To  Choose  Lobsters 45 

Boiled  Lobsters 45 

Curried  Lobsters 45 

Lobster  Chowder 45 

Chowder . 46 

•Oo  Fry  Smelts — 46 

Bea  ''  3rriiig3. or  Yarmouth  Bloaters  47 

Boiled  ^7ish 47 

Oysters  on  the  Shell 47 

Oysters  Stewed  with  Milk 43 

Oysters  Fried  in  Butter 48 

Oysters  Scalloped 48 

Oysters  Fried 49 

Oyster  Patties 49 

Oysi'ers  Broiled 50 

Clai?!  Fritters — 50 

Clams,  Seft  Shelled 50 

To  Ilroil  Soft  Shell  Clams 50 

Clau  1 Chowder 51 

ICES,  ICE-CKE AM,  CANDY. 

Currant  Ice 226 

Strawberry  or  Raspberry  Ice 226 

Orange  and  Lemon  Ices 226 

Ice-Cream 226 

Vanilla  or  Lemon  Ice-Cream. 227 

Strawberry  Ice-Cream 227 

Chocolate  Ice-Cream.. 227 

Cream  Gandies 228 

Pineapple  Ice  Cream 228 

Italian Oream 229 

To  Make  Barley  Sugar 229 

To  Make  Everton  Toffy 230 

Cocoanut  Drops.... 230 

Aioh^sses  Candy 230 

Chocolate  Caramels 230 

Lemon  Candy 231 

INVALID  COOKERY. 

Port  Wine  Jelly 239 

Tapioca  Jelly 239 

Ajrowroot  Wine  Jelly 239 

Jellied  Chicken 239 

Chicktn  Broth 240 

To  Make  Gruel 240 

Barley  Water 241 

Arr©  wroet  Blanc  M ange 241 

Lemonade  for  Invalids 241 

Mutton  Broth 242 

Flax  Seed  Lemonade. 242 

Arrowroot 243 

Stewed  Rabbits  in  Milk...  243 

Slippery  Elm  Bark  Tea. 243 


PAGE. 

BggWine 243 

Toast  Water : 244 

Onion  Gruel 244 

MEATS. 

Roast  Beef ^2 

Bound  of  Beef  Boiled 52 

Beef  Salted,  or  Corned  Beef 62 

To  Boil  Corned  Beef....  54 

A Nice  Way  to  Serve  Gold  Beef 54 

Spiced  Beef 54 

Broiled  Beefsteak 55 

Fried  Beefsteak 55 

Beefsteak  Pie 56 

Boiled  Leg  of  Mutton 56 

Roast  Loin  of  Mutton 67 

Broiled  Mutton  Chops 57 

Mutton  Chop,  Fried 57 

Roast  Forequarter  ©f  Lamb 57 

Lamb's  Sweet  Breads 58 

To  Roast  Veal 59 

Veal  Cutlets. — 60 

Stuffed  Fillet  of  Veal  with  Bacon — 60 

Veal  Cake 61 

VealPie..... 61 

Beiled-Calf *s  Head 62 

Calf's  Head  Cheese 63 

Boiled  Calf's  Feet,  Parsley  and  But- 
ter...........  — ..  63 

Calf's  Liver  and  Bacon 63 

Sweet  Breads..... 61 

Egged  Ve al  Hash. ....................  64 

Roast  Beef  with  Yorkshire  Pudding..  65 

Beef  Heart,  Baked  or  Roasted 65 

Beef  Kidney..... 66 

Rolled  Beef 66 

Boiled  Tongue 67 

Fricassed  Tripe 67 

Broiled  Tripe 67 

Roast  Rabbit. 63 

Stewed  Rabbit,  Larded 68 

Fricassed  Rabbit...... 69 

A Pretty  Dish  of  Venison 69 

To  Boil  Venison  Steaks 69 

Beefsteak  and  Kidney  Pudding. . . „ . . 70 

IKEAKFAST  DISHES. 

Hashed  Cold  Meat 71 

Potato  and  Beef  Hash.. 71 

Dried  Beef 72 

Chicken  Cutlets 72 

Beef  Patties...... 73 

Jellied  Veal ............  73 

Rice  and  Meat  Croguettes. 74 

Aanarioan  ^ 


It 


iNDEXc 


PAOK 

Meat  and  Potatoes... ...... 0....O..O.  74 

Breaded  Sausage. . . . . . 74 

Ham  Croquettes...... 74 

A Nice  Breakfast  Dish..... 75 

Chicken  in  Jelly 75 

A6k)odDisb. 75 

MISCELLANEOUS. 

An  Excellent  Hard  Soup 248 

To  Wash  Woolen  Blankets 248 

For  Clothes  that  Fade 249 

Lamp  Wicks.. 249 

To  Make  Old  Crape  Look  Nearly 

Equal  to  New. 249 

A Cement  for  Stoves 249 

To  Clean  Kid  Gloves 250 

Stains  and  Spots 250 

To  Remove  Grease  Spots 251 

Stains  on  Marble 251 

Paint  or  Tarnish 252 

To  Remove  Ink  from  Carpets 252 

To  Remove  Ink  from  Paper 252 

Feed  for  Canary  Birds...., 252 

Ink  on  Rosewood  or  Mahogony 253 

Coal  Fire 253 

Polish  for  Bright  Stoves  and  Steel 

Articles........ 253 

To  Prevent  Pumps  from  Freezing. . . 253 

To  Keep  Starch  from  Sticking, 253 

To  Keep  off  Mosquitoes 254 

To  Brighten  Gilt  Frames, 254 

To  Make  Hens  Lay  in  Wiijter 254 

To  Preserve  Steel  Pens 254 

Mice 254 

Camphor 255 

To  Clean  Combs 255 

For  Cleaning  Jewelry 255 

For  Washin&Silver  and  Silverware, . 255 
For  Washing  Glass  and  Glassware...  256 

Insects  and  Vermin 256 

Moths  in  Carpets 257 

Smooth  Sad  Irons 257 

To  Sweeten  Meat 257 

Stove  Polish 257 

Cleaning  White  Paint 258 

To  Cleanse  the  Inside  of  Jars 258 

Furniture  Polish 258 

Squeaking  Doors 258 

I'or  Cleaning  Mirrors 258 

To  Soften  Putty.. 258 

To  Remove  Stains  from  Mattresses. . 259 

Kalsomlning............. 259 

Papering  Whitewashed  Wallis. .......  259 

BovioOlctDCioneto ^ 


PAOB. 


To  Clean  Hairbrushes 260 

How  to  Wash  Flannels 2C0 

Cleaning  Lace 261 

New  Kettles 261 

To  Keep  Flies  off  Gilt  Frames 261 

To  Prevent  Knives  from  Rusting. ...  261 

Cement  for  Glassware 262 

Waterproof  Paper 262 

Recipe  for  Violet  Ink 262 

Perspiration  262 

Renewing  Old  Kid  Gloves ^263 

Cologne  Water 263 

To  Cleanse  a Sponge 263 

Icy  Windows 263 

To  Remove  Blood  from  Cloth 263 

Camphor  Ice 264 

Starch  Polish 264 

To  Clean  Feathers 264 

To  Test  Nutmegs... 264 

To  Clean  Mica 26* 

To  Soften  Hard  Water 264 

To  Destroy  Vermin  in  the  Hair 265 

To  Remove  Bruises  from  Furniture.  265 

Pearl  Smelling  Salts 265 

Pounded  Glass 265 

Polish  for  Boots 265 

To  Clean  Plate 266 

To  Clean  Decanters 260 

Spots  on  Towels  and  Hosiery 266 

Croup 267 

Poison  Ivy  or  Oak.... 267 

Convulsion  Fits 263 

Burns  and  Scalds 268 

Cuts 263 

Cold  on  the  Chest 268 

Bleeding  from  the  Nose 263 

Chilblains 269 

To  Cure  a Sting  of  Bee  or  Wasp 276 

For  Toothache 273 

Choking 270 

Excellent  Carminative  Powder  for 

Flatulent  Infants 270 

Cubeb  Berries  for  Catarrh 27t 

Diarrhoea. 271 

For  Sick  Room 271 

Bites  of  Dogs  2TZ 

Measles  and  Scarlatina. 273 

Stye  in  the  Eye 272 

For  Constipation 273 

Leanness 273 

Superfluous  Hairs 273 

The  Breath *74 


The  Quinine  OarelorDrokeoiieM...  33 


INDEX. 


% 


PAGE. 

For  Sore  Throat 274 

AGoodOure  for  Colds  ......o, .......  274 

To  Stop  Bleeding — » . 275 

A Health  Appetizer...  — ............  275 

To  Remove  Discoloration  from 

Bruises 275 

Earache 275 

To  Cure  Toothache — 276 

For  Felon 276 

filxcellent  Deodorizer  ^ 276 

To  Cure  a Boil 276 

To  Cure  a Whitlow 277 

Tape  Worms 277 

For  a Caked  Breast 277 

Remedy  for  Blistered  Feet 277 

Relief  for  Asthma 277 

Chapped  Hands 278 

Lunar  Caustic 278 

Rheumatism  and  Headache 278 

Fever  and  Ague 278 

For  a Fainting  Fit 278 


To  Restore  from  Stroke  of  Light- 


ning  279 

Relief  for  Inflamed  Feet 279 

Warm  Water 279 


Cleaning  House«  Sitting  and  Dining 

Room 279 

How  to  Dust  a Room 282 

Girls  Learn  to  Cook 283 

Te  .ch  the  Little  Ones 283 

Children  Love  Games 284 

Teach  Your  Own  Children 285 

Cultivating  Selfishness  in  Children. . 285 

Packing  Away  Furs 287 

Courage ^87 

The  Art  of  Eeauty  in  Dress 288 

Home  Dressmaking  200 

A Woman’s  Skirts 2 2 

To  Make  Sleeves 293 

All  About  Kitchen  Work 294 

A Nice  Clothes  Frame 296 

Sunlit  Rooms 297 

Pleasant  Homes 298 

How  to  be  Handsome. 209 

Headache ....co,....  306 

High-Heeled  Boots  898 

Make  Home  Pleasant 809 

Dinner  Table  Fancies . 310 

The  Use  of  Ammonia 

Laughter ’’  / * 2]  2 

Items  Worth  Remembering 313 

IgKMe  OQgraoefKLi  Habits 813 


PUDDINGS. 

p^sa. 


Remarks. 154 

Christmas  Plum  Pudding 154 

Boiled  Batter  Pudding 155 

Batter  Pudding 155 

Madeira  Pudding. — 156 

Apple  Sauce  Pudding  156' 

Queen  of  Puddings. 156 

Orange  Pudding. ... 157 

Corn  Starch  Pudding. .... ........  137 

French  [Pudding 153 

Belle’s  Pudding 158 

Cream  Tapioca  Pudding 159 

A Bachelor’s  Pudding........ 159 

Macaroni  Pudding  159 

Baked  Indian  Pudding  160 

Boiled  Indian  Pudding.  160 

Marmalade  Pudding........ 160 

Boiled  Apple  Pudding  161 

Nelly’s  Pudding  .............. ....  161 

Rich  Baked  Apple  Pudding  162 

Snow  Balls. 162 

Rice  Pudding 162 

Apple  Charlotte ......  163 

Ground  Rice  Pudding 163 

Fig  Pudding 163 

Bread  and  Butler  Pudding. 164 

Cabinet  Pudding 161 

Snow  Pudding 164 

Carrot  Pudding. 165 

Lemon  Pudding  165 

Roly-Poly  Pudding 165 

Cottage  Pudding 165 

Cocoanut Pudding.... I66 

Cream  Pudding. 166 

Tapioca  Pudding ................  166 

Common  Custard. ...................  168 

PUDDING  SAUCES 

Rich  Wine  Sauce. ......... ......o 168 

Whipped  Cream  Sauce. ....... ..coo.  168 

Lemon  Sauce I68 

Jelly  Sauce 163 

Cabinet  Pudding  Sauce  . 169 

Foaming  Sauce... |69 

Spanish  Sauce........ 169 

Hard  Sauce. J69 

PuddingSauce .,..0.........  169 

Sauce  for  Plum  Pudding............ . 170 

Vanilla  Sauce 0.,.^. ,.  170 

PASTRY. 

Very  Good  Puff  Paste Ill 

Fiainei  Paste. lU 


INDEX. 


Vi 


PAGE. 

Suet  Crusts  for  Pies  or  Puddings. . ..  172 


To  Ice  Pastry 172 

To  Graze  Pastry 173 

Mince  Meat 173 

Mock  Mince  Pie 174 

Apple  Custard  Pie 174 

Apple  Meringue  Pie 174 

Apple  Pie  175 

Lemon  Pie 175 

Custard  Pie 175 

Cocoanut  Pie 176 

Lemon  Tarts 176 

Pastry  Sandwiches  176 

Cherry  Pie 177 

Squash  Pie., 177 

Cream  Pie 177 

Tartlets. 177 

Peach  Pie 178 

Pumpkin  Pie 178 

Tart  Shells 178 

Mince  Pies 179 


PRESERVES,  CANNED 
FRUITS,  JELLY. 

To  Preserve  Plums  without  the 


Skins 210 

To  Preserve  Purple  Plums ..210 

Preserved  Greengages  in  Syrup  .....  211 

Preserved  Cherries  in  Syrup 211 

Preserved  Pears 2:2 

Preserved  Peaches 2 ' 2 

Preserved  Citron 2:3 

Crab  Apples  Preserved 213 

Pineapples  Preserved 213 

Gooseberry  Jam.... 213 

Blackcurrant  Jam 214 

Raspberry  Jam.... 214 

Quince  Preserve... 214 

Red  Currant  Jelly  215 

Apple  Jelly  216 

Black  Currant  Jelly. 216 

Crab  Apple  Jelly..,. 217 

Other  Jellies  217 

Wine  Jelly  217 

calves' Feet  Jelly. 217 

Orange  Marmalade.. 218 

Lemon  Marmalade 218 

Quince  Marmalade 218 

Peach  Marmalade  219 

Apple  Butter 219 

Lemon  Butter 219 

Peach  Butter 220 


PEESERVED  AND  CANNED 


FRUITS. 

PAGE 

Apple  Ginger  (A  Dessert  Dish).......  220 

Iced  Currants 220 

Te  Bottle  Fresh  Fruit 221 

To  Green  Fruit  for  Preserving  iu 

Sugar  or  Vinegar 221 

To  Color  Preserves  Pink 222 

To  Color  Fruit  Yellow 222 

Canned  Peaches 222 

Canned  Strawberries ?22 

Canned  Pears 223 

Canned  Plums. 223 

Canned  Currants  223 

Canned  Pineapple ; 224 

Canned  Quinces..  224 

Canned  Tomatoes 224 

Canned  Corn........ 224 

POULTRY,  GAME,  ETC. 

Roast  Turkey 77 

Boiled  Turkey. 78 

To  Roast  a Fowl  ©r  Chicken ... ...... . 73 

Boiled  Chicken 80 

Broiled  Chicken 80 

Fried  Qiieken 80 

Fricassee  of  Chicken 81 

To  Curry  Chicken  81 

Pressed  Chicken 81 

Chicken  Pot  Pie 82 

Chicken  Salad 82 

Chicken, Jellied 83 

Chicken  Pates.. 83 

Sage  and  Onien  Stuffing  forGeesf  , 

DucksandPerk 83 

To  Roast  a Goose 84 

Roast  Ducks 85 

Roast  Pigeons 85 

To  Make  a Bird's  Nest 86 

Pigeons  in  Jelly 86 

Pigeon  Pie. 87 

Wild  Ducks 88 

Roast  Wild  Duck 88 

Wild  Turkey 88 

To  Roast  Snipe,  Woodcock,  and 

Plover 89 

Roast  Partridge 90 

Roast  Quail 90 

Roast  Prairie  Chicken 90 

Larded  Grouse 91 

PORK,  HAM  AND  EGOS. 

To  Choose  Pork ^ 


INDEX. 


PA 

CurlEg  Hams 

To  Roast  a Leg  of  Pork . . . 

Pork  and  Beans  . . . ’ 

Pork  Sausages. ..... 

Pork  Chops,  Steaks  a id  Cutlets 

Roast  P'g 

Pigs*  Cheek .... 

Roast  Spare  Rib — 

Pork  Fritters 

Baked  Ham 

To  Boil  a Ham. 

To  Ereil  a Ham 

Fried  Ham  and  Eggs 

Ham  Toast. 

Head  Cheese 

Pigs*  Feet  Soused. 

To  Make  Lard 

To  Tell  Good  i^gs - . 

Keeping  Eggs  Fresh 

Poached  Eggs 

Dropped  Eggs....'. 

Stuffed  Eggs 

Egg  3 a la  Suisse., 

Eggs  Brouille 

Eggs  Curried.. 

Eggs  Creamed.. 

SoftBeiled  Eggs 

Eggs  Upon  Toast 

Dutch  Omelet 

Eggs  Poached  in  Balls 

Omelet  au  Natural 

Omelet  in  Batter 

Scrambled  Eggs 

Omelet  (Splendid) 

SOUPS. 

Remarks  on  Soups 

Stock  Soups 

White  Stock 

Shin  of  Beef 

Mutton  with  Tapioca 

?eai 

Ox  Tail... ” 

Vegetable 

Macaroni 

Vermicelli 

Chicken  Cream 

Mock  Turtle 

Hard  Pea 

Green  Pea 

Potato 

Tomato 

Game 

Celery 


PAGE. 

Oyster S < 

Lobster S\ 

Egg  Balls  for  Soup 3 1 

Noodles 31 

Irish  Stew 

To  get  up  Soup  in  Haste 31 

To  Color  Soup 5 3E 

SAUCES  FOR  MEATS,  ETO. 

To  Make  Drawn  Baiter 123 

ParsLy  Sauce 123 

Egg  Sauce 123 

Oaion  Sauce 124 

Anchovy  Sauce 124 

Bread  Sauce 124 

Tomato  Sauce 124 

Tomato  Mustard 125 

Mint  Sauce 123 

Celery  Sauce 123 

Governor’s  liauce 125 

Cream  Sauce 128 

Russian  Sauce 126 

May-  nnaise  Sauce 126 

Oyster  Sauce 127 

Lobster  Sauce 127 

Caper  Saucs 127 

Mustard  ^auce. 127 

Curry  ^uce 128 

Cranberry  Sauce 128 

Port  Wine  Sauce  for  Game. 129 

Currant  JeLy  Sa:;ce 129 

Apple  Sauce 129 

SALADS,  PICKLES  AN.O 
CATSUP. 

Lettuce 139 

Lettuce  Salad 139 

Salmon  Salad 140 

Lobster  Salad 140 

Tomato  Salad 141 

Sardine  Salad 141 

Salad  Dressing 141 

French  Salad  Dressing 141 

Cream  Dressing  for  Cold  Slaw 142 

Chicken  Saiad 142 

Red  Vegetable  Salad 142 

Celery  Salad 143 

Cold  Slaw 143 

Salad  Dressing  (Excellent) 143 

Pickled;  Cucumbers 144 

To  Pickle  Onions 144 

Pickled  Cauliflower 144 

Red  Cabbage . 144 

To  Pickle  Tomatoes . 149 


Ripe  Tomato 


• GE. 

9^ 

93 

93 

91 

94 

P5 

95 

96 

»6 

96 

97 

97 

97 

9S 

99 

99 

100 

100 

101 

101 

lOL 

102 

10  J 

102 

103 

103 

103 

103 

104 

, 104 

104 

, 105 

105 

, 20 

. 22 

. 22 

, 23 

, 24 

, 25 

, 25 

. 25 

. 26 

. 26 

, 26 

, 27 

. 27 

. 28 

. 29 

. 29 

. £0 

. 30 


INDEX. 


wii 


PAGE* 

Chopped  Pickle 145 

Chow-Ohow 146 

Piccalilli 146 

Pickled  Walnuts  (very  good) 146 

Green  Tomato  Pickle 147 

Chill  Sauce 147 

Mixed  Pickles 117 

Pickled  Mushrooms 148 

Favorite  Pickles 143 

Tomato  Mustard 119 

Indian  Chutney 149 

Pickled  Cherries 149 

Pickled  Plums. 150 

Spiced  Plums 150 

Peaches,  Pears  and  Sweet  Apples 150 

Tomato  Catsup 150 

Walnut  Catsup. 151 

Mushroom  Catsup 151 

Brine  that  Preserves  Butter  a Year. . 152 
Butter  In  Haste 152 

VEGETABLES. 

Boiled  Potatoes 106 

Mashed  Potatoes 106 

Fr.ed  Potatoes 107 

Broiled  Potatoes 107 

Potatoes  and  Cream 107 

Potato  Puffs 108 

Potato  Snow :.  108 


108 

103 

109 

100 

109 

109 

110 
110 
no 


Turnips IIO 

Spinach. 110 

Beets Ill 

To  Preserve  Vegetables  for  Winter. . Ill 

Delicate  Cabbage... 112 

Red  Cabbage 113 

Cauliflower 1.13 

Mashed  Carrots. i vi 

Boiled  Green  Corn 113 

Green  Peas.. 1I4 

ToBoilOnions 114 

Fried  Onions 114 

Boiled  Parsnips 114 

Parsnips  Fried  in  Butter 115 

Parsnips  Creamed. 115 

Parsnip  Fritters 115 

Salsify,  or  Vegetable  Oysters 116 

Broiled  Vegetable  Marrow. Ilf 

Stewed  Tomatoes ll7 

Baked  Tomatoes 117 

Stuff  ed  Tomatoes 118 

Scalloped  Tomatoes IIS 

To  Peal  Tomatoes 118 

Baked  Beans 119 

String  Beans ll9 

Butter  Beans 119 

Asparagus  with  Egg  3 120 

Asparagus  upon  Toa  t 120 

Mushrooms,  Stewed 120 

Mushrooms,  Fried 120 

Mushrooms,  Baked 121 

Mushrooms,  Broiled 121 

Mashed  Squash I2l 

Baked  Squash 121 

Fried  Squash 121 

Stewed  Celery.. 122 

Stuffed  Egg  Plant..,, 123 


Potato  Border 

Potatoes,  Whipped 

Potatoes,  Scollope.l 

Potato  Croquettes 

Potatoes  a la  Cream 

To  Boll  Sweet  Potatoes.. 
Roasted  Sweet  Potatoes, 
Baked  Sweet  Potatoes. . . 
French  Fried....... 


n 

r" 


