Google 


This  is  a  digital  copy  of  a  book  that  was  preserved  for  generations  on  library  shelves  before  it  was  carefully  scanned  by  Google  as  part  of  a  project 

to  make  the  world's  books  discoverable  online. 

It  has  survived  long  enough  for  the  copyright  to  expire  and  the  book  to  enter  the  public  domain.  A  public  domain  book  is  one  that  was  never  subject 

to  copyright  or  whose  legal  copyright  term  has  expired.  Whether  a  book  is  in  the  public  domain  may  vary  country  to  country.  Public  domain  books 

are  our  gateways  to  the  past,  representing  a  wealth  of  history,  culture  and  knowledge  that's  often  difficult  to  discover. 

Marks,  notations  and  other  maiginalia  present  in  the  original  volume  will  appear  in  this  file  -  a  reminder  of  this  book's  long  journey  from  the 

publisher  to  a  library  and  finally  to  you. 

Usage  guidelines 

Google  is  proud  to  partner  with  libraries  to  digitize  public  domain  materials  and  make  them  widely  accessible.  Public  domain  books  belong  to  the 
public  and  we  are  merely  their  custodians.  Nevertheless,  this  work  is  expensive,  so  in  order  to  keep  providing  tliis  resource,  we  liave  taken  steps  to 
prevent  abuse  by  commercial  parties,  including  placing  technical  restrictions  on  automated  querying. 
We  also  ask  that  you: 

+  Make  non-commercial  use  of  the  files  We  designed  Google  Book  Search  for  use  by  individuals,  and  we  request  that  you  use  these  files  for 
personal,  non-commercial  purposes. 

+  Refrain  fivm  automated  querying  Do  not  send  automated  queries  of  any  sort  to  Google's  system:  If  you  are  conducting  research  on  machine 
translation,  optical  character  recognition  or  other  areas  where  access  to  a  large  amount  of  text  is  helpful,  please  contact  us.  We  encourage  the 
use  of  public  domain  materials  for  these  purposes  and  may  be  able  to  help. 

+  Maintain  attributionTht  GoogXt  "watermark"  you  see  on  each  file  is  essential  for  in  forming  people  about  this  project  and  helping  them  find 
additional  materials  through  Google  Book  Search.  Please  do  not  remove  it. 

+  Keep  it  legal  Whatever  your  use,  remember  that  you  are  responsible  for  ensuring  that  what  you  are  doing  is  legal.  Do  not  assume  that  just 
because  we  believe  a  book  is  in  the  public  domain  for  users  in  the  United  States,  that  the  work  is  also  in  the  public  domain  for  users  in  other 
countries.  Whether  a  book  is  still  in  copyright  varies  from  country  to  country,  and  we  can't  offer  guidance  on  whether  any  specific  use  of 
any  specific  book  is  allowed.  Please  do  not  assume  that  a  book's  appearance  in  Google  Book  Search  means  it  can  be  used  in  any  manner 
anywhere  in  the  world.  Copyright  infringement  liabili^  can  be  quite  severe. 

About  Google  Book  Search 

Google's  mission  is  to  organize  the  world's  information  and  to  make  it  universally  accessible  and  useful.   Google  Book  Search  helps  readers 
discover  the  world's  books  while  helping  authors  and  publishers  reach  new  audiences.  You  can  search  through  the  full  text  of  this  book  on  the  web 

at|http: //books  .google  .com/I 


I 


EVEJB-Y    WOMAN 

HER     OWN 

HO  USiM^EEPER ; 

O  R, 

THE    LADIES'    LIBRARY. 

CONTAINING 
THE  CHEAPEST  AKD   MOST  EXTENSIVE 

SYSTEM  OF  COOKERY 

Ever  iiffertdto  the  Public. 

WITH  RECEIPTS  FOR  i&OVE  ONE  THOUSAND 

NECESSARY  AND  ELEGANT  DISHES ; 

Bpfaay^  of  them  Origina],  from  the  Manafcripts  of  the  late  Mf» 

Pe&kjkS)  Cook  to  Earl  Gower,  Sir  Matthew  Lamb^ 

and  Lord  Vifcount  Mblbourn. 

RULES  FOR  MARKETING, 

AND  TO  CHOOSE  PROVISIONS,  WITH  NECESSARY  TABLES. 

Trufling  and  Carvmg — Dirc£bions  for  Roafting,  Boiling,  Broiling^ 

Frfingt  and  Baking,  FIe(hy  Fifii,  and  Fowls ;  Potting,  Collar* 

ing,  Pickling,  Prcl'erving,  and  Confectionary ; 

including' 
MADE  DISHES,  FRICASSEES,  RAGOUTS,  SOUP^, ; 
GRAVIES,  STEWS,  PIES,  PUDDINGS,  TARTS,  CUSTARDS, 

JELLIES,  CHEESECAKLES,  &c. 

iMfiruSions  for  Decuratm^^  avd  properly  Setting  otf  a  Tabk* 

PJLKPAKATION  OF 

MADE  WINES;  BREWING  ALE  AND  BEER. 

^he  Culinary  and  Medical  Properties  and  Ufeiorall  Fruits  and  Vegetables) 

2iidS.coiarks  on  Culinary  Puifons.    Litis  of  every  thing  in  Scai'oa 

tor  each  Month.     Variety  of  Bills  of  Fare,  with  a  proper  ar- 

rangtment  of  the  Difhes.     Genteel  Light  Suppers, 

•  and  many  ufeful  Tables. 

ALSO, 

T^HE   FAMILY   PHYSICIAN; 

OR, 
A  COMPLETE  BODY  OF 

DOMESTIC    MEDICINE. 

^iirti  EJitiWy  -with  AlditwtU 

LONDON^ 
rrintvd  for  JAMES  RIDGWAY,Tork-ftrcet,  St  |am«'s-f<jutw 


/ 


Tic  7y-?7.  ^<^' *^ 


fMAi4.CnZ^ 


7H\^  .  Cia.iLtiL^  At.  VACt^ttsu^i^ 


••^s 


r^HH 


aasr^ 


PREFACE. 


1 

r 


1  H  E  intention  of  the  following  Work  is  to 
prefent  the  Female  Sex  with  a  complete  body 
OF  information,  refpefting  the  conduft  and 
arrangement  of  their  domeftic  concerns ;  and  to 
inftruft  them  in  whatever  is  neceflary  to  be 
known  by  the  Mijirefs  of  a  Family — ^to  exhibit 
fuch  a  fyftem  of  knowledge  as  will  not  only 
conduce  to  their  own  comfort  and  happinefs,  but 
difFufc  content,  latisfaftion,  and  utility  tlirough- 
out  their  families,  and-  the  circle  of  their  con« 
ne£lions  and  d^piendents* 

The  Editors  have  no  defign  to  apolo^ze  for 
introducing  a  New  ffbrk^  even  on  fubjefts  many 
of  which  may  have  been  thought  to  be  exhauft* 
•d;  the  plan  of  this  being  entirely  different  from 

A  a  any 


W  PREFACE. 

any  previous  publication ;  fo  very  extenfive,  and 
embracing  a  variety  of  fuch  highly  ufeful  and 
interejling  objefts,  renders  apology  unneceflary; 
they  intend,  therefore,  in  this  place,  to  give  a 
more  comprehenfive  view  of  the  undertaking  in 
general,  and  to  point  out  the  meafures  which  they 
purfued  in  the  feleftion  of  thofe  articles  which 
compofe  the  Ladies'  Library. 

One  of  the  three  eflential  parts- of  our  plan,  as 
relative  .to  domeftic  knowledge,  was  to  give  a 
PRACTICAL  SYSTEM  OF  COOKERY  ;  and,  for  this 
purpofe,  every  article  and  every  recipe,  that  had 
either  utility  or  claim  to  notice,  was  carefully  fe- 
ledled  from   almoft  7>&/r/y  different  authors:   in 

ft 

this  purfuit  frugality  and  elegance  were  our 
conftant  condudlors  ;  very  complicated  difhes  arc 
fcldom,  if  ever,  very  excellent,  yet  they  are  always 
cxpenlive,  and  never  conducive  to  health.  The 
colle£lion  thus  made  underwent  the  examination 
of  a  lady,  whofe  judgement  and  long  experience 
well  qualified  her  for  the  talk,  and  from  whofe 
hand  it  received  much  alteration,  and  more  im- 
provement. With  great  application  and  troublen 
this  divifion  of  the  work  has  been  completed? 

2  and 


PREFACE.  V 

dnd  ihould  it  prove  ufeful  to  thoie  for  whom  it 
is  peculiarly  intended,  we  fhall  think  our  labour 
well  beftowed. 

In  the  Confedionary  department,  and  the  lighter 
branches  of  Cookery,  we  acknowledge  ourfelves 
very  much  indebted  to  the  Gentleman  who  favour- 
ed us  with  the  Manufcript  Recipes  of  the  late  Mr. ' 
Pek&ins,  of  which  we  have  made  very  ample 
ufc. 

Pickling,  prefervlng,  diftilling,  the  preparation 
of  mad^  wines,  brewing,  &c.  are  very  fully  treat- 
ed oiF;  but  we  muft  not  omit  noticing  (what  in 
works  of  cookery  is  feldom  attended  to)  that  we 
have  given  the  culinary  and  medical  properties  of 
all  fruits,  vegetables,  &c.  in  common  ufe,  with 
aa  accurate  account  c£  whatever  may  come  under 
the  denomination  of  Culinary  Poifons^  or  articles, 
injurious  to  health  and  (afetyir  Extenfive  lifts  of 
every  thing  in  feafon ;  copious  bills  of  fare ;  trufl- 
iag  of  poultry,  &c.  the  arrangement  of  diflies  on 
die  table,  illuftrated  by  copper-plates  and  expla-- 
nations,  and  a  variety  of  genteel  light  fuppers,  are. 
alio  included  ;   fo  that  a  feryant,  by  giving  due 

aitemtion  to  our  remark^^  cannot  fail  of  fending 

a  dinner 


Ti  PREFACE. 


a  dinner  to  table  in  a  handibme  manner,  with  the 
greateft  eafe. 

Young  Ladies,  as  well  as  their  fervants,  are 
often  much  at  a  lofs  how  to  choofc  meat,  poultry, 
filh,  and  other  articles  of  provifion,  and  confe- 
quently  are  liable  to  be  impofed  upon  ;  we  have, 
therefore,  laid  down  a  good  deal  of  neceflary  in- 
formation on  Marketing,  and  have  given  fome 
lifeful  hints  that  may  prove  beneficial  even  to 
families  fettled  in  life. 

Carving,  or  the  Art  of  Differing  Poultry,  or 
Joints  of  Meat,  with  eafe  and  dexterity,  is  eflen- 
tially  neceflary,  efpecially  to  mafters  and  mif- 
trefles  pf  families,  and  frequently  to  upper-fer- 
vants:  plain  dire6lioni,  illuftrated  by  copper- 
plates, for  the  performance  of  this  daily  duty, 
will  be  given  under  its  proper  head. 

The  FOUR  FIRST  Rules  of  Arithmetic, 
viz*  Addition,  Subtraftion,  Multiplication,  and 
Divifion,  are  given  in  {o  very  plain  and  concifc  a 
manner,  that  any  young  woman  who  can  read  and 
write  may  eafily  become  mijftrefs  of  them,  with- 
out further  afliftance.  To  fervants  in  general  this 
appeared  to  us  a  very  neceflary  branch  of  know- 
ledge : 


PREFACE.  vu 

ledge:  to  thofe  of  the  higher  clafs,  as  cooks 
houfe-keepers,  aiid  ladies*  maids,  it  is  pofitively  not 
to  be  difpenfed  with.  This  little  treatife,  joined 
to  the  tables  for  marketing,  buying  and  felling, 
&c.  which  are  very  full  and  correft,  an3  the  plans 
for  keeping  a  houfe-keeper's  book,  we  hope  will 
will  be  of  much  fervice  towards  the  frugal  ma- 
nagement of  family  expences. 

In  a  word,  every  clafs  of  Female  Servants  will 
find  inftru£lion  from  this  work :  the  houfe-keep- 
er,  the  cook,  the  houfe-maid,  the  chamber-maid, 
the  laundry-maid,  the  dairy-maid,  and  the  nur* 
fcry-maid,  will  receive  information  for  the  did 
charge  of  their  refpe£live  duties;  and  young 
married  people  will  of  courfc  know  what  to 
expert  from  their  dependents. 

The  next  department  of  which  we  muft  more 
minutely  explain  the  fubjedl,  is  entitled,  The 
NURSERY ;  and  here  we  have  been  elpecially 
attentive  to  the  management  and  treatment  of 
Infants,  from  their  birth  to  the  age  of  adults . 
but  we  muft  obferve,  though  it  treats  of  their 
diibrders  and  complaints  very  fully,  that  it  is  not 
fdely  confined  to  the  rearing  of  children,   but 

forms 


▼ui  PREFACE. 

forms  a  very  cxtenfive  body  of  domestic  me- 
pici NE,  including  the  caufcs,  fymptoms,  pre- 
vention and  cure  of  difeafes,  free  from  all  the 
abftrufe  and  profeffional  terms  of  phyfic^  and 
entirely  accommodated  to  the  underftanding  and 
praftice  of  fuch  perfons  and  families  to  whofe 
ufe   thefe   volumes   are   more   particularly   dedi- 

cated. 

Not  only  in  many  remote  parts  of  the  king- 
dom, but  even  in  the  environs  of  the  metro- 
polis, medical  affiftance  is  frequently  obtained 
with  difficulty,  and  always  with  confideraU^ 
cxpence;  but  the  patient's  cafe  is  fomctimes 
even  rendered  defperate,  before  relief  can  be  ob- 
tained,  or  unfortunately,  perhaps,  circumftances 
may  preclude  the  poffibility  of  obtaining  it  at  all. 
The  Ladies,  in  particular,  are  often  prevented 
from  receiving  the  benefit  of  medical  advice  by 
an  unwillingnefs,  the  offspring  of  delicacy,  to 
apply  for  it.  This,  however,  is  here  fully  ob- 
viated; every  indifpofition,  to  which  tbey  are 
more  peculiarly  fubjeft,  is  fully  treated  of ;  all 
that  they  can  poffibly  wifli,  or  need  to  know,  is 
laid  down,  in  a  plain  intelligible  manner,  but  with 

every 


]^    R    E    F    A    C    Ei  ix 

tiery  attention  to  decent  propriety  ;  and  they  will 
happily  find  the  means  of  reftoring  themfelves  to 
health,  without  injuring  their  delicacy  by  a  com- 
munication of  their  feelings  to  any  perfon,  or  re- 
vealing the  nature  or  caiife  of  their  indifpofition* 
Nor  have  we  been  deficient  in  treating  of  thofc 

Common  difbrders,  and  ufual  cafualties,  to  which 
people  are  daily  fubjeft;  and  for  the  relief  of 
which  our  diredions  will  be  found  generally  very 
fufficient.  The  prudent  and  ienfible  miftrefs  of 
a  family  will  be  always  able  to  manage  fuch  flight 
indifpofitions  ;  and  we  muft  obferve,  that  it  is  by 
no  means  our  intention  to  fuperfede  the  ufe  of  a 
phyfician j  but  only  to  fupply  his  place  in  fituations 
where  medical  ailiflance  cannot  eafily  be  obtained* 

Cases  of  Surgery,  indeed,  require  not  only 
a  degree  of  judgement,  but  of  experience  alio, 
which  we  think  none  but  profefliorial  men  hardly 
ever  attain  :  the  judgement  of  the  anatomift,  and 
the  .hand  of  the  fldlful  operator,  are  ufually  indif* 
peniable ;  yet,  there  are  fome  flight  cafes  where 
even  thefe  may  be  difpenfed  with,  and  many  things 
may  be  done  to  fave  the  lives  of  our  fellow-crea- 
tures, by  thofe  who  are  no  adepts  in  anatomy. 

Vol.  L     .  b  Bleeding, 


.  * 


3t'  PREFACE. 

Bleedings  for  inftance,  is  often  praftifed  by  micl<» 
wives,  gardeners,  and  l^lackfiniths ;  and  the  coun- 
try barber  generally  takes  the  fuperintendance  of 
the  teeth,  aiul  often  with  as  much  fuccefs  as 
the  profefHonal  dentift.  Bnms,  fcalds,  whitloesy 
bruifes,  ftrains,  and  ulcers,  may  be  as  fuccefs* 
fiilly  managed  by  a  well-informed  nurfe,  as  by  ^ 
country  apothecary* 

Many  of  the  patent  medicines  have  htea  held  in 
deierved  efteem ;  and  we  have  taken  all  pains  to 
procure  the  original  recipes,  which  are  given  in 
the  work  :  many  prefcriptions  of  this  clafs — ^for 
inflance,  Skvainfon^s  Felno's  Syrupy  Jame^s  Fever 
Powders^^  t§c. — ^have  been  adminiftered  with  afto* 
niflhing  fuccefs ;  of  thefe,  the  bcft  accounts  that 
we  can  procure  will  be  related :  fuch  medicines 
being  the  property  of  men  of  probity  and  reputa-* 
tion,  thence  derive  a  ftrong  claim  to  our  atten- 
tion. 

To  prevent  the  poffibility  of  error  or  nuilake^ 

the  quantities  of  every  thing  direded  to  be  ufcd^ 
throughout  the  whole  work,  are  expreiied  in  words 
at  length ;  and,  to  guard  againft  every  mifappUca^ 
tion  or  ino^tfmice;  the  edi^nrs  have  carefully  at« 

KndediU)  the  corredlioo  of  the  prefs. 

The 


PREFACE.  jd 

The  Toilet  completes  the  circle  of  our  Fe^ 
MALE  Encyclopedia;  the  dcfign  of  which 
branch  is  to  exhibit  a  rational  method  of  pre* 
vdQbag,  or  corredingt .  the  natural  or  accidental 
deformities  and  blemifhes  of  the  huxxun  body>  and 
of  improving  and  heightening  natural  beautj[. 
Such  a  plan^  executed  upon  ju{l  principles,  will 
certainly  prove  of  general  utility, 

Phyiiciaas  *  ieem  to  have  coniidered  whatever 
xelates  to  cosmetics,  or  the  prefcrvation  of  beauty, 
as  a  fubjed  beneath^ the  <Iignity  of  their  pens: 
hence  it  has  bepn  confined  chiefly  to  mifcellaneous 
collediims  o£  recipes^  frequently  dangerous,  gene- 
lally  abfurd  in  ^heir  compofition,  and  always  ufe* 
lefs  from  the  ne^£t  of  difcriminating  their  appU-* 
cation,  as  our  readers  will  find  clearly  illuflrated 
under  the  head  Complexion. 

The  ingredients  of  the  numerous  ufeful  recipes 
peculiar  to  this  part  of  the  book,  will  be  found  to 
be  perfeftly  innocent  and  fimple,  and  may  be  pre-^ 
pared  at  much  leis  expence  than  what  is  paid  for 
a  far  lefs  quantity  of  thofe  ready-made  compofi- 
tions,  the  efFcfts  whereof  are  at  beft  uncertain, 
and  often  dcflrudive,  while  ours  are  uniformly 

b  %  lendcrecl 


L. 


xii  PREFACE. 

rendered  fubfervient  to  the  prefcrvation  and  im- 
provement of  healthy  as  well  as  beauty. 

We  have,  indeed,  been  particularly  folicitous  to 
give  fuch  preparations  as  are  at  leaft  totally  ds^. 
void'  (^  every  pernicious  quality ^  and  of  directing  the 
moft  cfFeilual  means  for  improving  and  preferving 
FEMALE  CHARMS,  without  having  recourfe  to  any 
baneftil  methods  of  difguifing  them ;  for  with  re*- 
fpeft  to  PAINTS  and  rouges,  we  can  juftly  lay, 
that  after  having  analyfed  all  the  compofitions 
which  have  been  impofed  upon  the  world  under 
that  denomination,  there  is  not  one  to  be  found 
which  is  not  abfolutely  incapable,  either  from  the 
texture  or  the  quality  of  its  ingredients,  to  anfwer 

fafely  or  effedualty  the  purpofe  for  which  it  is 

•  .  .  .  •      > 

propofed. 

If  the  fubftance  be  a  powder,  and  dry,  it  may 
exhibit  a  higher  complexion,  but  can  never  re- 
fle6t  that  polifhed  clearnefs  attendant  on  Nature^ 
and  a  delicate  Ikin ;  on  the  other  hand,  if  the 
compofition  be  an  adhefiye  moifture,  it  will  afford 
a  more  (hiuing  vaniifli,  but  will  totally  flop  the 
perfpiration ;  and  both,  if  fpread  oyer  a  confidera- 
ble  furface,  will,  in  time,  produce  fuch  diforders 

^  as 


P    R    E    F    A    C    J^!^  3da 

as  it  may  be  impoffible  to  extirpate ;— the  indif^ 
penfable  exhalations  of  the  vital  fluid  are  detain* 
ed  ;  let  the  ladies,  therefore,  beware,  left  in  the 
triumph  of  fupcrlative  beauty,  they  fall  a  iacrifice 
to  the  ambition  of  futile  allurements  ;  and  let  not 
fa^e  refinement  induce  them  to  deftroy  that  inefti- 
mable  bleffing,  health,  which  alone  can  give 
fragrance  to  the  lip,  bloom  to  the  countenance, 
and  luftre  to  the  eye. 

But  could  this  treacherous  art  even  be  prac- 
tifed  with  impunity,  what  plealure  can  it  poffibly 
yield  ? — Short  muft  be  the  triumph  of  impofture, 
and  when  deteded,  adieu  to  love  and  happinefs. 
If  any  thing  we  can  fay  on  this  fubjeA  fhall  have 
a  happy  tendency  to  refcue  beauty  from  the  hands 
of  cmpiricifm,  and  mark  the  nice  diftindlion  by 
which  its  charms  may  be  improved,  our  labour 
wHl  be  well  rewarded :  but  let  us  entreat  the  la- 
Aes  never  to  attempt  to  increafe  the  gifts  of  Nature 
by  methods  {o  inadequate,  and  deftrudlive  of  all 
gratification. 

There  will  be  little  need  to  urge  the  cultiva* 
tion  of  perfonal  charms,  upon  the  principle  of  a 
duty.    It  is  certainly  not  only  excufable,  but  high- 


xiY  ,P    R    E    F    A    C    E, 

]y  commendable,  to  paj  attention  to  perfonal  ac^ 
comp]ifhments^  while  fuck  attention  is  confined 
within  certain  bounds,  the  extent  of  which  realba 
will  didate,  though  cuilom  may  greatly  influence* 
There  are  ibme  little  arts  which  may  be  ufcd  ta. 
improve  beauty,  that  neither  deferve  cenfure,  or 
are  attended  with  dangcn  To  preferve  a  good 
head  <^  hair  by  nutritive  pomatums  and  powders  ; 
to  take  away  a  fuperfluous  quantity  on  die  fore- 
head, by  harralefs  ckpilatories }  to  remove  freckles^ 
or  an  ofienfive  pimple  from  the  ^ice ;  to  prevent; 

.the  lips  Of  hisinds  from  chapping,  by  an  iitdo* 
^ceoc  ialve;  or  an  emollient  walh<^ball ;  and  to  pre^ 
ierVe  the  teeth  white  and  found,  are  all  juftifiablc 
pra^ices*  We  are  born  for  each  other,  and  therc-^ 
fore  it  is  a  duty  we  owe  to  ibc^ty,  as  well  as  our^ 
felves,  to  endeavour  to  be  mutually  agreeaUe,  and 
to  corre^fl  every  thing  difguftfuL  Perfonal  neg-^ 
ligence  not  only  implies  an  infuiSerable  indolence, 
but  an  ihdiference  whether  we  plcafe  or  not.  It 
often,  alfo,  betrays  an  infolence  and  afieftation,^ 
?rifing  from  a  prefumption  of  being  fure  to  pfcafej^, 
without  having  rccourfe  to  the  m^ns  which  others 
«re  obliged  to  ufe^ 

I  it 


PREFACE.  xr 

It  would  not  only  be  exceedingly  tedious,  but 
would  fwell  this  preface  far  beyond .  any  reafon- 
able  bounds,  were  we  to  enumerate  all  the  ufcful 
lubje£ls  contained  in  the  Miscellaneous  Arti- 
cles of  thefe  voJ^umes : — they  will  be  found  to 
conftitute  an  immenfe  Fund  of  Ufeful  Dotnejiic  In^ 
formation.    No  pains,  attention,  npr  expence,  have 

ft 

been  omitted,  on  the  parts  of  the  Editors  and  Pub- 
lifher,  to  render  it  complete ;  and  they  flatter  them- 
fclves  with  being  juflly  entitled  to  approbation  and 
encouragement. 


LondoD, 
January  xft,  1790. 


THS 


mtir  1 


T    H    A 


LADIES'    LIBRARY. 


■  A> 

A  I  R. 

Jl  EOPLE  in  general  pay  very  mucK  attention  to  what 
they  eat  and  drink,  but  certainly  too  little  to  what  goes 
into  the  lungs ;  though  the  confequences  of  breathing  a 
vitiated  and  corrupt  air  prove  often  more  fuddenly  and 
laftingly  fatal  than  the  former*  Wherever  great  num- 
bers of"  people  are  crowded  into  one  place,  if  the  air  has 
not  a  free  current,  it  foon  becomes  unwholefome.  Hence 
it  is,  that  delicate  peribns  are  to  apt  to  turn  lick  or  (aint 
in  crowded  churches,  affemblies,  or  any  place  wher£  the 
:ur  is  injured  by  breathing,  fires,  candles,  or  the  like.  In 
great  cides,  fb  many  things  tend  to  pollute  the  air^  that 
it  is  no  wonder  it  proves  fatal  to  the  inhabitants : 

It  is  not  Air, 

That  from  a  thoufand  lungs  reeks  back  to  thlne^' 

Sated  wkh  exhalations  rank  and  fell. 

irhe  ipoil  of  dunghills,  and  the  putrid  thaW* 

Of  nbture,  when  from  ihape  and  texture  ihe 

Relapfes  into  fighting  dements ;     ^    ^ 

It  is  not  Air,  but  floats  a  naufebus  mafs 

Of  all  obfcehe,  corrupt,  ofienUve  things. 

*  Fotr  the  articles  Abscess,  fee  tfifiammaum'^A^Utf  fee  Uead^Jchep 
TMf'Acbef  Jkc.-*^6V£^  fee  £rt4fr. 

Vol.  I.  B  Atf 


fir  AIR. 

Air  that  is  too  hot,  diflipates  the  watery  part  of  the 
bloody  and  occafions  bHious  and  inflammatory  fevers: 
very  cold  air  obftruds  perljpiration ;  occafions  rheuma- 
dlins,  cbu^,  ^nd  many  diieafes  of  die  hreiifl  and  throat*; 
tvhile  air  that  is  too  moift  diipoies  the  body  to  dropfics, 
aguesj  and  intermittent  fevers.  Wherever  air  llagnates 
long,  it  becomes  unwholelbtae ;  and  the  various  methods 
which  luxury  has  invented  to  make  houfes  clofe  and  warm, 
has  not  contributed  a  litde  to  render  them  unhealthy ; 
for  no  houfe  can  be  wholefome  unlefs  the  air  has  a  free 
pailage  through  ic  Particular  car^  therefore  fliould  be 
taken  to  open  every  window  of  a  houfe  as  early  as  pofli- 
ble  in  a  morning,  to  admit  the  light  and  a  current  of 
free  air ;  and  beds  fliould  not  be  made  up  as  ibon  as  peo- 
ple rife  from  them,  but  ought  to  be  turned  down,  and 
expofed  to  the  frefli  ^  from  the  open  windows  through 
the  day.  Small  bed-chambers  are  a  very  imprudent 
choice ;  they  ought  efpecially  to  be  well  aired,  as  being 
only  occupied  when  all  the  doors  and  windows  are  fliut  i 
and  fires  are  a  very  dangerous  companion  in  a  fixiaU 
apartment.  If  frefli  air  be  neccflary  for  thofe  in  health, 
it  is  yet  more  fo  for  the  fick,  into  whofe  chambers  it 
ought  always  to  be  admitted,  gradually  indeed,  and,  if 
poilible,  by  opening  the  windows  of  Ibme  other  apart- 
ment. 

The  temperature  of  the  air  has  aUb  a  remarkable  in- 
fluence on  the  CoMPii^cTioif  $  fo  much  fo,  that  a  cha- 
raderiflic  colour  marks  the  bulk  of  the  people  of  every 
foil.  To  prefcrve  comple6bional  beauty,  it  is  therefore 
neceflary  to  avoid  the  extremes  of  too  cold,  or  too  hot 
911  iM,  the  impreflicMis  of  which  are  very  forcible,  and 
very  deftrudtivc.  The  effluvia  fromvifiarlhy  lands,  ftag- 
•    "  '"  nant 


ALE*'  ± 

nant  waters^  and  noiibme  exhalationd,  affisft  a  delicate 
€omple6tion  almoft  as  much  as  diey  do  delicaise  lungs  j 
the  Ueak  coldncls  of  north-caft  winds^  evening  dews, 
fogs,  and  mifts,  arc  all  dcftrufbivc  of  nature's  lilies  aiid 
rofes.  Too  dry  and  parching  a  wind  wrinkles  and  chops 
Ac  fkin,  makes  it  rough,  contrafts  the  pores,  and  checks 
that  kindly  tranfpiradon  to  eifentiai  both  to  health  an4 
beauty. — See  alio  the  article  CompUStion^ 


ALE. 

For  the  making  of  Ale  we  muft  refer  to  the  article 
Brewing:  but  medicated  Ales  are  frequently  pre- 
fcribed  as  diet-dirinks ;  and  in  cafes  which  require  a 
coDtimiance  of  medicme,  in  order  to  gain  upon  and  altef 
the  conflitution,  much  help  may  be  cxpcfted  from  themi 
they  are  befides  readily  and  eafily  prepared;  and  being  a 
fort  of  kitehen  phyjic^  arc  of  courfc  ncceflary  in  a  family 
£ipeniatbry. 

I.  Bitter  Ale.  Take  of  gendan  root,  lemon  peef 
frefh,  each  a  quarter  of  a  p6un3  i  bng  pepper,  one 
ounce }  ale,  one  galloQ :  let  them  fteep  together^  Thia 
is  a  cheap  and  ufeful  ftomachic  bitten 

1.  Dr.  Bntkr's  Ale.  Take  of  hctony,  fege,  agri- 
mony, garden  fcurvy  grafs,  and  Roman  wormwood,  each 
three  handfuls;  elecampane  roots,  horfe-^adifli  roots, 
each  a  quarter  of  a  pound ;  new  ale,  four  gallons.  The 
herbs  and  roots  to  be  put  in  a  hag,  and  hung  in  the  ale 
nhilc  working.  This  is  ufeful  in  the  Iprii^  for  purify- 
ing the  blood,  and  preventing  fcorbutic  difordcrs^  Half 
a  pint  may  be  taken  two  or  diree  times  a  daf . 


If.  ALMONPS. 

3,  Diuretic  Ale.  Take  of  muftard  feed,  whole,  and 
juniper  berries,  each  eight  ounces;  wild  carrot  feedj^ 
three  ounces  -,  common  wormwood,  two  ounces ;  new 
fqiall  ale,  jt^n  gallons. 

Or^  Take  of  broom-tops  and  muftard-fced,  each  fix-. 
teen  ounces ;  flower-de-  luce  roots,  iharp  pointed  dock 
rqptSj  each  twelve  ounces;  winter's  bark,  elder  bark> 
wild  carrot  feeds,  juniper  berries,  each  two  pounds ;  ney? 
ale,  twelve  gallons.  In  dropfical  and  corpulent  fcorbutic 
habits,  thefe  are  very  ufeful  diet  drinks,  half  a  pint  of 
which  may  be  taken  two  or  three  times  a  day. 

4.  Scorbutic  Ale.  Take  horfe-radilh  root,  frelh,  one 
pound }  great  water-dock  roots,  half  a  pound  -,  canella 
alba,  two  ounces ;  buck  bean  leaves,  frefh',  eight  ounces  j 
or  dried,  three  ounces ;  ;new  fina^l  ale,  ten  gallons.  In 
fcorbutic  diforders,  and  impurities  of  the  bbod  an4 
juices,  this  liquor  ufed  as  a  corpmon  drink  yfually  does 
much  feryice. 

In  all  the  above  preparations,  the  vegetables  are  to  be 
put  into  the  ale  while  in  ftate  of  fermentation,  and  boile^ 
with  it. 


ALMONDS. 

There  are  two  forts,  the  Iweet  and  bitter ;  Ijut  be-- 
^wccn  thefe,  or  the  trees  wjiich  produce  them,  the  eycf 
can  fcarcely,  if  %t  all,  diftinguiih.  Sweet  almonds  are 
ufed  in  food,  but  are  reckoned  to  afford  little  nourilh- 
ment,  and  when  eaten,  in  fubftance  are  not  eafy  of  digef-^ 
tion.  Bitter  almonds  have  been  found  poifbnous  to  Ibmc 
animals ;  and  a  water  diftilled  from  them,  when  made  of 
a  certain  degree  of  ftrength,  has  had  a  like  ^ffei^.    The 

oils 


ALMONDS.  5 

^  obtained  from  each  Ibrt  arc  precifcly  fimilar  in  dieir 
eflfefts,  being  feryiceable  internally  in  pains,  inflamma- 
tions, hoarfencfs,  tickling  covghs,  &c.  In  the  purpofes 
pf  cookery,  they  are  employed  as  follows : 

To  prefirve  Almonds  dry.  Take  a  pound  of  Jordan 
almonds  (one  half  blanched,  the  other  unblanched)  beat 
the  white  of  an  egg  very  well,  pour  it  on  the  almonds,, 
and  wet  them  well  with  it ;  then  boil  half  a  poi^nd  oi[ 
double-refined  fugar,  dip  the  almonds  in  it,  ftir  them  all 
together,  that,  the  fugar  may  hang  well  on  them,  lay 
chem  on  plates,  put  them  in  a  moderate  oven  (af^ 
bread  is  drawn,  if  convenient)  and  let  them  remain  all 
night,  by  which  means  they  will  keep. well  for  a  twelve- 
pQondi*  f 

A  Baked  Almond  Pudding.  Grate  the  Ikins  of 
two  lemons  very  fine ;  beat  half  a  pound  of  almpnds  in 
rofc  water,  and  a  pound  of  fugar  alfo  very  fine,  then 
mcjt  half  a  pound  of  butter,  and  let  it  fland  till  it  is 
quite  cold ;  beat  the  yolks  of  eight  eggs  and  the  whites. 
pf  four  'y  TtfOi  them,  and  beat  all  together,  with  a  little 
grange-flower  w^ter  j  bake  it  riirc;e  quarters  of  an  hour,- 
and  Icrve  it  up  for  a  fccond  courfc,  garnilhed  with  dices, 
of  oralige.  If  ^eeable,  the  diih  in  which  it  is  baked 
may  be  lined  with  light  pafte. 

A  Boiled  Almond  Pudding^  Strain  two  eggs  well 
beaten  into  a  qu^  of  cream,  a  penny  loaf  grated,  on« 
nutmeg,  fix  fpoonflils  of  flour,  half  a  pound  of  alttionds 
blanched  and  beat  fine,  and  hajf  a  dozen  bitter  almonds ; 
fwccten  with  fine  fiigar,  and  add  a  litde  brandy ;  boil  it 
half  an  hour ;  pour  round  it  melted  butter  and  wine,  and 
(ticH  i(  i^xh  almonds  blaaehed  and  flit,  » 


^  ALl^ONDS. 

Another  way.  Beat  a  pound  of  fweet  almonds  a#- 
finall  38  poilible^  with  three  ipoonfuls  of  rofe  watcr^  and 
a  gill  of  white  wine ;  mix  in  half  a  pound  of  frefli  but-- 
tcr  melted,  with  five  yolks  of  eggs,  and  two  whites  ;  d 
quart  of  xream,  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  fugar,  half  a 
nutmeg  grated,  one  Ipoonfiil  of  flour,  and  three  ipoonfuls 
of  crumbs  of  white  bread :  mix  all  together,  and  boil  it 
ludf  an  hour. 

Almond  Hoo's  Puddjtno.  Take  a  pound  of  bce^ 
marrow  chopped  fine  j  half  a  pound  of  iweet  almonds 
blanched,  and  beat  fine  widi  a  little  orange-flower  or 
rofe  water ;  half  a  pound  of  white  bread,  grated  fine  j 
half  a  pound  of  currants,  clean  wafhed  and  picked  $  a 
quarter  of  a  pound  of  fine  fugar,  a  quarter  of  an  ounce 
together  of  mace,  nutmeg,  and  cinnamon,  (equal  quan- 
tities of  each)  and  half  a  pint  (^  mountain  wine ;  mix 
all  together  well  with  half  a  pint  of  good  cream,  and  the 
yolks  of  four  eggs.  Fill  the  guts  half  full,  tie  them  up^ 
boil  them  a  quarter  of  an  hour,  pricking  diem  as  the^ 
boil,  to  keep  them  fixMti  breaking.  As  a  change  you 
may  leave  out  the  currants,  but  you  muft  then  add  a 
quarter  of  a  pound  more  fugan. 

Another  way.  Take  hsdf  a  pint  of  cream,  a  quartets 
qf  a  pound  of  currants,  as  much  fugar,  the  crumb  of  a 
halfpenny  rqll  grated  fine>  fix  large  pippins  pared  and 
(hopped  fine,  a  gill  of  wine  or  rofe  water,  fix  bitt©r  d- 
inond?  blanched  and  beat  fine,  the  yolks  of  two  egg& 
^nd  one  white  beat  fine  i  mix  all  tx>gether,  fill  the  guts-  aa 
above,  and  boil  diem.. 

Almond*^Soup.  Chop  a  neck  of  veal  am}  the  fcr^^ 
end  of  a  neck  of  mutton  into  fmatt  pieces,  put  them 
*mto  a  large  tofling  pan^  Oice  in.  a  turnip,  with  a  blade 

»  or 


A  LMO  N  D  $;  f 

or  two  of  mace,  and  five  quarts  of  water  j  boil  it  gently 
till  reduced  to  two  quarts,  ftraiii  it  through  a  hair  fieve 
into  a  clean  pot,  then  put  in  half  a  pound  of  blanched 
almonds,  beat  iine,  half  a  pint  of  thick  cream,  and  iea^ 
fan  it  to  your  tafte.  Have  ready  three  French  rolls,  not 
larger  than  a  finall  tea^-cup  each ;  blanch  a  few  Jordan 
almonds,  cut  them  length  wajrs,  ftick  them'  round  the 
edge  of  the  rolls  -flank  ways,  and  alfo  over  the  top  of  the 
roUs,  and  place  them  in  the  tureen,  pouring  the  foup 
over  them.  Thcfe  rolls  look  fomewhat  like  hedge-hogs, 
fitxn  whence  this  has  obtained  the  name  of  Med^e-bog 
Snp. 

Amtberwajf.  Blanch  a  quart  of  almonds,  and  beat  them 
in  a  marble  mortar,  with  the  yolks  of  fix  hard  eggs,  till 
diey  are  in  a  fine  pafte;  mix  them  by  degrees  with  two 
quarts  of  new  milk,  a  quart  of  cream,  and  a  quarter  of  a 
pound  of  double  refined  fugar^  beat  fine ;  ftir  all  toge- 
ther, and  when  well  mixed,  put  it  over  a  flow  fire,  and 
keep  ftiiTii^  it  quickly  all  the  time,  till  you  find  it  is 
thick  enough,  dien  pour  it  into  your  diih,  and  lend  it 
to  table».  Butobferve,  that  if  you  are  not  very  careful,  it 
will  curdle. 

Almond  Custards.  Put  a  pint  of  cream  into  a  tof-^ 
fing  pan,  widi  a  flick  of  cinnamon,  and  a  blade  or  taro 
CMf  mace,  boil  it,  and  iet  it  to  cool ;  blanch  two  ounces 
of  almonds,  faea^  them  fine  in  a  marble  mortar  with  rofe 
water ;  if  you  like  a  ratafia  taile,  put  in  a  few  apricot 
kernels,  or  bitter  almonds ;  mix. them  with  the  cream, 
iweeten  to  your  palate,  fet  it  on  a  flow  fire,  and  keep 
fBrring  dll  it  is  pretty  thick  i  but  it  muft  not  boil,  or  it 
win  curdle. 

The 


%  AMBERGRIS. 

The  above  are  the  chief  articles  of  food  in  which  tKe 
almond  is  ufed  -,  in  medicine  they  form  a  part  of  manjr 
Bmulsions,  (fee  this  article)   and  for  beautifying  the 
ikin>  we .  have  feveral  compofitions ;  but  muft  firft  ob^ 
ierve,  that  a  litde  of  the  powder  of  bitter  almonds 
.  formed  into  a  pafte  :with  water  in  the  hand>  will  anfwer 
the  purpofe  of  m^y  more  coftly  preparations, 
t    Almond  Pastes,     i*  Blanch  in  warm  water  any 
quantity  of  bitter  almonds,  let  them  dry>  and  then  beat 
them  in  a  marble  mortar  with  a  litde  milk>  to  form  them 
into  a  pafte.   To  prevent  its  turning  oily,  afterwards  add 
the  crumb  of  a/  light  white  loaf  foaked  in  milk  -,  beat 
it  with  the  almonds,  till  they  are  formed  into  an  uniform 
mais ;  then  put  the  whole  into  a  kettle  with  fome  frefli 
milk,  and.  let  them  fimmer  over  a  gende  fire,  ftirring  the 
compofidon  dil  it  is  boiled  into  a  foft  pafte« 
•    2.  Beat  a  quantity  of  each  fort  of  almonds  in  a  mar- 
ble mortar,  pouring  on  them  a  litde  vinegar  to  prevent 
their  turning  oily ;  then  add  two  drams  of  ftorax  in  fiiie 
powder,  two  ounces  of  white  honey>  and  two  yolks  or 
eggs  boiled  hard ;  mixing  the  whole  into  a  pafte. 

J.  Blanched  almonds,  one  pound;   pine  nuts,  four 
, ounces;  beat  them  into  a  pafte,  with  the  addition  of 
loaf  fugar,  two  ounces ;  an  ounce  of  the  fineft  honey,  aii 
ounce  of  bean  fk)ur,  and  half  a  gill  of  brandy.     Thi9 
pafte  may  be  fcented  with  any  of  the  perfumed  eflenceSf 


AMBERGRIS- 

This  IS  one  of  the  moft  agreeable  of  the  j&^r/«/«^^,  and 
Icarcely  ever  accompanied  with  the  inconvcnicncies  of 

that 


AMULETi  9 

diat  kind  of  fubftanccs.  We  cartnot  refill:  hera  giving 
the  following  elcga'nt,  efficacious,  and  eafily-prejpared 
medical  compofition,  from  die  Parifian  Dilpenfiltory. 

Take  ambergris,  on6  dram ;  tartarized  ipirit  of  winej 
and  %irit  of  roies^  each  one  ounce  and  a  half;  digeft 
together  in  die  heat  of  a  water  bath  juft  fufficient  to 
make  the  fpirit  fimmer.  Eight  or  ten  drops  may  be 
taken  on  fugar ;  or  the  fugar,  after  imbibing  the  dro|»j 
may  be  diffolved  in  a  glafs  of  white  wine.  This  is  ft 
high  cordial,  of  great  fervice  in  diforders  rf  the  head^ 
iod  in  nervous  complaints. 


i«ii^^a«i» 


AMULET. 

This  #tird  (which  is  more  properly  Amlet^  of  Ortie- 
let)  means  a  kind  of  pancake,' or  fricailee  of  egg^,  witt) 
Other  ingredients,  very  ufual  in  Spain  and  France, 

Amlets  for  Ornament*  Take  three  fmall  deep  plates ; 
break  into  one  of  them  three  eggs,  which  beat^  and  ftraia 
dirou^  a  (i6ve,  addmg  a  Ktde  cochineal  to  make  them 
red  i  then  break  fix  more  eggs,  putting  the  whites  inta 
one  phte,  and  the  yolks  into  another  ^  beat  thcmj  and 
colour  the  whites  with  Ipinage  juice,  to  make  them 
green  5  let  die  yol^s  be  of  their  own  colour  for  yellow  1 
have  ffeady  a  ftew-pan  with  fome  boiling  water,  fix  the 
plate  that  it  may  juft  touch  the  water,  put  a  cover  clofc 
over  it,  and  lome  fire  on  the  cover,  and  in  this  manner 
let  the  pan  boil  gently ;  when  the  firft  eggs  are  hard^ 
take  them  out,  and  do  the  others  in  the  fame  manner  -^ 
afterwards  cue  diem  'im>  ihapes  or  limct^  for  ornamei:its^ 
«sreqtnred«t 
•Y0L.L  C  Amleu 


I 
I 


10  ANDERSON'S    PILLS.' 

Amlbt  of  Egos.  Beat  and  ftrain  fix  eggs  through  a 
hair  fieve,  and  put  them  into  a  frying-pan,  in  which  is 
prepared  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  hot  butter  s  throw  in  a 
little  boiled  ham,  fcraped  fine,  fbme  (bred  parfley,  and 
ieaibn  them  as  you  pleafe ;  fry  it  brown  oh  the  under 
fide,  and  lay  it  on  the  difh,  but  without  turning ;  lala^ 
mander  them  for  half  a  minute,  to  take  oflf  the  raw  look 
pf  the  egg.  Some  put  in  clary  and  chiyes,  others  uie 
onions  I  ferve  it  up  with  curled  parfley  ftuck  in  it. 

AMtET  (/Asparagus.  Boil  fome  fyie  aiparagus,  and 
when  done,  cut  the  green  ends  very  fmall,  and  mix  them 
with  fix  eggs  which  have  been  beat  up  with  cream,  ad- 
ding pepper  and  fait ;  let  your  frying-pan  be^  hot,  put  in 
a  flice  of  butter,  then  fiy  ypur  amlets,  and  fend  them  up 
hot  on  buttered  toafts. 

A  cook  of  the  leaft  mgenuity  may  improve  on  t^ief^ 
re^r^pes,  and  in^ke  amlets  of  various  forts. 


ANCHOVY. 

A  fmall  fifh,  taken  in  the  Mediterranean,  and  Ih 
nearly  refembling  the  common  fprat,  that  the  latter  is 
often  pickled  and  fold  for  ^nchovics.    See  Sprats. 

Anchovy  Sauce,  Pyt  an  anchovy  ipto  a  pint  of 
gravy,  with  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  butter  rolled  in 
flour,  and  ftir  all  together  till  it  boils.  Yqu  may  add  a 
litde  lemon  juice,  catchup,  red  wine,  or  walnut,  if  agrecn 
^ble. 

A  N  D  E  R  S  O  N'ii      PILLS, 

This  very  popular,  and  indeed  ufeful  family  m^icme> 
is  prepared  in  the  following  manner;  take  fuccptrinc 

aloe^j^ 


ANGELICA.^  II 

aloes,  one  dram ;  aromatic  fpecies,  half  a  dram ;  lc2im« 
faiony^  one  fcniplc  5  foft  cxtraft  of  liquorice^  as  much 
as  is  fnfficient  to  reduce  them  into  a  mafs  of  a  due  con^ 
fiftence  for  being  formed  into  pills.  The  above  quantity 
mxy  be  made  into  diirty  pills>  of  which  fire  or  fix  are 
to  be  taken  for  a  dofe; 

It  is  a  warm  aild  fafo  purgadre>  much  r^commffnded 
for  removing  crudities  after  a  furfeit  or  debauch^  and  for 
preventing  gouty  and  other  complaints.  Many  of  the 
tommon  venders,  elpccially  thofe  who  travel  the  court* 
try^  compound  this  medicine  with  inferior  artides ;  and 
fay  fome  it  is  made  entirely  of  aloes,  moiftened  with  Am- 
ple fyrup.  This  medicine  is  particularly  ferviccabie  in 
habitual  coftivenefs  to  perlbns  of  phlegmatic  tempera* 
ment  and  fedentary  life,  and  where  the  ftoitlach  is  op- 
prefled  and  weakened. 

The  Aromatic  Species  is  thus  prepared :  take  cin- 
hamon,  two  ounces;  Icflcr  cardamom  feeds  (huiked) 
ginger,  and  long  pepper,  each  one  ounce  -,  beat  them 
into  a  powder,  of  which  fifteen  or  twenty  grains  is  a 
dofe,  taken  in  any  agreeable  liquid,  for  wanning  the  (lo« 
ftiach  and  promoting  digeftion. 


ANGELICA; 

This  is  a  very  elegant  aromatic,  tlioiigh  riot  mucll 
regarded  in  medicine ;  the  roots  have  a  pleafant,  bit- 
teriih,  warm  tafte,  glowing  orl  the  lips  a  iong  time  after 
they  have  been  chewed.  The  roots  are  candied  or  pre- 
icrved  by  the  chemifts;  and  by  the  confectioners  the 
branches  are  preferved  as  foUows : 

Ca  Takfl 


tft  APHTHA- 

Take  a  quantity  pf  the  branches  in  AprU^  and  boil 
them  in  vater  till  tender,  then  dra^  them  very  weU  s 
icrape  the  outfides>  and  dry  them  in  a  clean  cloth  i  lay 
(hem  in  fyrup,  and  let  diem  reniain  three  or  four  days 
covered  clofe :  the  fyrup  muft  be  ftrong  of  fiigar,  and 
keep  it  hot  a  good  while,  but  without  boiling ;  afterr 
wards  lay  them  upon  a  pie-plate  to  dry,  keeping  them 
near  the  fire,  left  they  diflolve. 


ANISEEDS. 

Thefc  are  aromatic  and  carminative,  much  ufed  in 
cold  windy  diforders,  and  in  the  ^ipes,  to  which  young 
children  are  fubjcft ;  and  many  phyficians  recommend 
them  in  weaknefs  of  the  ftomach.  There  is  an  elegant 
cordial  water  prepared  from  them,  well  deferving  a  place 
in  every  lady's  clofet,  under  the  tide  of 

Compound  Aniseed  Water.  Take  anifeeds  and  an- 
gelica feeds,  each  half  a  pound ;  proof-lpirit,  one  gal- 
lon i  and  as  much  water  as  is  fufficient  to  prevent  burn- 
ing. Draw  off  nearly  one  gallon.  The  angelica  in  thi§ 
water  greatly  improves  the  tafte  of  the  anife. 


mmm 


ST.  ANTHONY'S  FIRE.    See  Erysipelas. 


A  P  H  T  H  iE. 

The  aphthae,  or  thrujhy  are  litde  ulcerous  (wellings  in 
the  inlide  of  the  mouth,  ftomach,  and  bowels,  generally 
white,  chiefly  attacking  children.    The  fymptoms  are 

I  lownefi 


■ 


APOPLEXY.  \    i^ 

Vyvmefs  aiid  depFcflSon  of  fpirits ;  as  the  ^pots  rile,  die 
caccreme  Ibrafieis  of  the  infant's  mouth  prevents  its  fiick- 
log ;   and  bk>ods  and  Ibmetifnes  convtilfion  fits,  foOow 

As  the  dilbrder  proceeds  fiom  acid  humours^  fix 
grains  of  rhubarb  Md  thirty  grains  of  magnefia  may  be 
nibbed  tpgetkcr  and  divided  into  fix  doies,  one  of  which 
may  be  given  every  four  or  five  hours  till  diey  operate  i 
g^ve  tbem  either  in  the  child's  food,  or  a  little  of  the 
fyrup  of  pak  roles,  and  repeated  as  often  as  found  ne« 
ceffiuyioke^  the  body  open.    The  fyrup  of  mulberries 

.  paifird  into  the  mouth  by  very  jGnaU  quantities  at  a  time 
(or  in  die  &me  manner  a  litde  port  wine  or  claret,  di* 
hiced  with  warm  barley  water)  by  which  means  it  wi|[ 
%read  more  elQr^uaUy  over  the  affeifled  parts,  and  be 
conveyed  into  die  ftomach  and  inteftines;  and  diis  is  4 
much  better  method  than  fcouring  the  child's  mouth 
widi  a  rag  00  a  ^^n  or  (tick*  Five  grains  of  white 
vitriol  diflblved  in  a  quarter  of  a  pint  of  bran  tea,  may 
be  uied  in  the  fame  manner ;  and  the  mother  or  nurfe's 
aif^le  may  al£b  be  gently  touched  with  gum  arable  dif* 
fclved  in  warm  water  to  die  confiflenoe  of  a  jelly.    A 

.  little  borax  finely  powdered,  and  mixed  with  honey,  is 
much  and  ji#ly  recommenced.  When  the  thrufh  ap« 
pears  ac  the  fiindament,  the  danger  is  over. 


fm 


APOPLEXY. 

An  apople&ic  fit  is  known  from  any  other  by  die 
ffuik  being  full,  the  eyes  cloied  as  if  dead,  though  the 
hcait  and  topgue  fiiU  continue  to  move  ^  fnprj:ing,  inlen^ 

fibility. 


r*  APOPLEXf. 

iibility,  and  a  dq^rivation  of  all  voluntary  motion.    Tkl^ 
difeafe  generally  attacks  fcdentary  perfons  of  a  groik 
bzbit,  who  eat  and  drink  too  freely^     People  in  the  de-& 
cline  of  life  are  very  fubjeft  to  it ;  and  it  prevails  moft 
in  winter,  efpeciaily  in  rainy  feafons. 

The  caufes  are  manyj  but  thofe  moft  tiCily  prevented 
are,  intenfe  application  to  any  fubjeft ;  viewing  objefts 
a  long  time  obliquely  -,  wearing  any  thing  too  tight  about 
tl^e  neck ;  too  high  living  j  fufFering  the  body  to  cool 
fuddenly  after  having  been  gready  heatdd  j  bruifes  on  the 
head  -,  the  fudden  (biking  in  of  any  eruption  -,  or  long 
expofure  to  exceflive  cold* 

The  general  forerunners  of  an  apoplexy  afe  glddinelsj 
p^n  and  fwimming  in  the  head,  lofs  of  memory,  dro w- 
finefs,  noife  m  the  ears,  ahd  laborious  refpiration.  When 
perfons  of  an  apopleftic  make  obferve  thefe  fymptoms^ 
they  have  reafon  to  fear  the  approach  of  a  fit,  and  (hould 
endeavour  to  prevent  it  by  bleeding,  a  (lender  diet,  and 
opening  medicines. 

If  the  apopleftic  fit  is  fuppofcd  to  arife  from  an  excels 
of  blood,  every  method  imift  be  taken  to  leflcn  the  force 
of  circulation  towards  the  head.  The  patient  fhould  be 
kept  perfeftly  eafy  and  cool ;  his  head  Ihould  be  raifed 
pretty  high,  and  his  feet  fufFered  to  hang  down;  hi* 
cloaths  ought  to  be  loofcned,  efpeciaily  about  the  neck^ 
and  frefh  air  admitted  into  his  chamber.  His  garters 
fhould  be  tied  pretty  tight,  to  retard  the  motion  of  thd 
blood  fiom  the  lower  extremities.  When  the  patient  i^ 
placed  in  a  proper  pofturc,  he  fhould  be  bled  freely  in 
the  nefck  or  arm,  and  if  neccfTary,  the  operation  fhould 
be  repeated  in  three  or  four  hours  afterwards.  A  laxa-* 
tivc  clyftcr,  (Sec  Clxfier^  No*  a.)  with  plenty  of  fwcet  oji 

or 


APPETITE,  15 

er  frefli  butter,  fhould  be  adminiftered  every  two  hours  j 
fuid  bliftering  plafters  applied  betwixt  the  fhoulders^  (See 
flafiery  No-  4,)  and  to  the  calves  of  the  legs. 

When  the  fymptoms  are  a  little  abated,  and  the  pa- 
tient able  to  fwallow,  he  ought  to  drink  freely  of  cream 
of  tartar  whey,  common  whey  with  cream  of  tartar  dif- 
folved  in  it,  or  a  decodion  of  tamarinds  and  liquorice  5 
or  he  may  take  a  cooling  purge.  Strong  liquors  ought 
to  be  avoided  1  and  volatile  falts  held  to  the  nofe  do 
mifchief. 

An  apoplexy  occafioned  by  a  colledion  of  watery  hu-» 
mours  comprefling  the  brain,  is  attended  with  fimilar, 
but  not  {o  violent  fymptoms ;  and  bleeding  is  not  held 
to  be  ib  fafe.  When  the  fymptoms  are  fuppofed  to  pro- 
ceed from  opium,  vomits  are  abfolvtely  nccefTary.  Per- 
petual iflues  have  a  happy  efied-,  and  they  fhould  not 
be  fuffered  to  dry  up  without  opening  others  in  their 
place.  Apople£bic  perfons  ought  never  to  go  to  refl 
widi  a  full  flomach,  to  lie  with  their  heads  low,  or  wear 
any  thing  tight  about  their  necks. 

An  attention  to  the  foregoing  remarks  will  be  always 
attended  with  temporary  benefit,  and  afford  an  oppor^ 
tunity  of  calling  in  proper  medical  afliflance*  (See  alio 
fvwdcrs^  No.  8, 


tmm^m^m»mm 


APPETITE. 

A  depraved  appetite,  and  indigeftion,  may  proceed 
bom.  a  foul  flomach,  the  want  of  free  air  and  exercife> 
grief,  fear,  anxiety,  or  any  of  the  depreffing  pafTions ; 
ilieats  that  pall  the  appetite,  or  are  hard  of  digeflion  i  or 
l^p  imnnoderate  ufe  Qf  ftrong  li(^uor$  and  teait 

In 


%$  A   P    P   1^  E    S, 

In  gencriJ,  a  gentle  puke  fliould  precede  the  u(e  o^ 
other  remedies  j  and  for- this  purpofe  a  fcruple  of  ipeca-^ 
cubana  in  powder  may  be  taken  in  a  cup  of  warm  tea, 
and  worked  off  with  weak  chamomile  tea ;  after  this  a 
purge  or  two  of  rhubarb,  or  any  of  the  bitter  hits,  may 
be  taken.    The  patient  ought  next  to  ufe  fbmc  of  the 
flomachic  bitters  infufed  in  wine.    But  though  gentle 
evactiations  be  indifpenfably  ncceflary^  yet  ftrong  purges 
«d  vomits  are  to  be  avwded,  (See  Drau^hts^  No.  5,— . 
Jnfufions,  I,  a,  and  3. — Pills,  9. 

If  the  caufe  prt)ceed  from  errors  in  diet,  6r  any  other 
part  of  the  regimen,  it  ought  to  be  changed ;  a  change 
t€  air,  with  daily  exercife  therein,  either  walking  or 
riding,  and  early  nfrngi  will  prove  of  much  fervice. 
Twenty  or  thirty  drops  of  cMxir  of  vitriol  may  be  taken 
twice  or  thrice  a  day  in  a  glafs  of  wine  or  water.  Or  it 
may  be  mixed  with  the  tinBtfre  of  Bark,  one  dram  of 
the  fbrnner  to  an  ounce  of  the  latter,  and  two  tea-lpoon- 
fuls  of  it  taken  as  above.  The  Ipas  of  Harrowgatc  an^ 
Scarborough  may  be  ufed  wirfi  advantage. 

The  depraved  appetite,  and  other  coniequences  of 
too  free  an  indulgence  in  fptrituous  liquors,  are  in  many 
cafes,  from  their  own  nature,  incurable  j  or  at  all  events 
require  modes  of  treatment  too  various  to  be  ^nteredt 
upon  in  a  work  of  this  nature^ 


•9" 


APPLES. 

A  weH  known  fruit,  of  which  there  h  a  great  variety 
of  forts  in  ufe  for  culinary  purpofes  5  eaten  raw,  thcjfJ 
have  the  common  qurfity  of  cooKn^  or  abating  thirft  ^ 


APPLES.  17 

die  fourcr  kinds  loofen  the  belly  j  the  more  auftere  have 
a  contrary  cffcft.  Unlels  thoroughly  ripe,  they  arc  very 
hurtful  to  weak  ftomachs :  for  the  table^  they  are  dreffed 
in  the  following  different  ways : 

Applb-Pib,  Lay  fome  good  pufF-pafte  cruft  round 
the  (ides  of  adifh,  pare  and.  quarter  the  apples^  take  out 
die  cores^  lay  a  row  of  apples  thick  in  the  difh ;  put  in 
half  the  lugar  you  intend,  with  a  little  lemon-peel  cue 
or  grated  fine,  and  a  very  few  cloves ;  then  the  reft  of 
your  apples  and  fugar ;  ibme  put  in  a  litde  quince  or 
marmalade.  Boil  the  apple-peelings  and  cores  in  fome 
£iir  water  with  a  blade  of  maqe,  till  it  is  very  good ;  then 
fb-ain  and  bpU  it  again  with  a  litde  fugar,  pour  it  into  the 
pie,  put  on  tlie  upper  cruft,  and  bake  it.  You  may  but- 
ter it  when  baked :  or  beat  up  the  yolks  of  two  e^s  with 
half  a  pint  of  cream  and  a  litde  nutmeg  and  fugar  i  ftir 
them  over  a  flow  fire,  till  they  juft  boil,  and  pour  them* 
into  die  pie.  Cut  the  cruft  in  little  three-cornered  pieces^ 
flick  about  the  pie,,  and  fend  to  table  cold. 

ji  baked  AvvhJL  Pudding.  Pare  twelve  large  apples, 
and  take  out  the  cores;  boil  them  in  a  fauce-pan  with 
five  fpoonfuh  of  water,  till  they  are  fbft  and  thick :  then 
beat  them  well,  ftir- in  a  pound  of  loaf  fugar,  the  juice 
of  three  lemons,  and  the  peel  of  two,  cut  thin  and  beat 
fine  in  a  mortar,  and  the  yolks  of  eight  eggs  beaten. 
Mix  all  together,  and  bake  in  a  flow  oven.  When 
nearly  done,  throw  over  it  fome  fin|r  ftigar.  Or  you 
/nay  bake  it  with  puff-pafte  at  the  bottom  of  the  difh 
and  round  the  edges. 

Jpotber.  Scald  ten  or  a  dozen  large  apples  or  codlings ,; 
pulp  them  when  peeled  through  a  fieve  r  ftir  in  .a  quar- 
ter of  a  pound  of  butter,  half  a  pound  or  more  of  fugar 

Vol.  I,  D.  beaten 


i8  APPLE  S. 

r 

beaten  and  lifted ;  the  rind  of  an  orange  or  lenndn  grS*' 
ted,  and  the  juice ;  the  yolks  of  five  eggs,  and  a  littfe 
cream.     Bake  it  with  a  pufF  pafte. 

Boiled  Apple  Pudding.  Having  made  a  puff-pafte> 
roll  it  about  half  an  inch  thick  5  pare  and  core  the  apples, 
.fill  the  craft,  grate  a  little  lemon-peel,  (and  in  winter 
a  little  lemon  juice,  as  it  quickens  the  apples)  put  in 
fome  fugar,  clofe  the  cruft,  and  tie  it  in  a  cloth ;  boiling 
it  two,  three,  or  four  hours,  according  to  its  fize. 

Apple  Dumplings,  Pare,  and  take  out  the  core  of 
your  apples,  fill  the  hole  with  quinces,  or  orange  mar- 
malade, or  fugar,  as  beft  fuitsj  then  take  a  piece  of 
cold  pafte  and  make  a  hole  in  it,  ^  if  you  were  going  to 
make  a  pie,  lay  in  your  apple,  and  put  another  piece 
of  pafte  in  the  fame  form,  and  clofe  it  up  round  the  fide 
of  the  apple,  which  is  much  preferable  to  the  method  of 
*  gathering  it  in  a  lump  at  one  end.  Tic  it  in  a  cloth, 
^nd  boil  it  three  quarters  of  an  hour  5  pour  mdted  but- 
ter over  them,  and  fervc  them  up.  Five  is  fufficlenc 
for  a  difti. 

A  Green  Codling  Pie.  Put  twelve  green  codlings 
into  a  clean  fauce-pan,  widi  as  much  hard  water  as  wiU 
cover  them,  placing  vine  leaves  under  and  over,  and 
add  a  bit  of  alum ;  cover  riiem  clofe  down,  that  no 
^eam  may  get  out,  and  place  them  over  a  flow  fire  1 
wh,en  foft,  peel  off  the  (kin,  and  replace  them  in  the 
fame  water  with  the  vine  leaves  ;  hang  them  over  a  flow 
•fire,  at  a  foot  diftance,  till  they  become  green  j  then 
•take  them  from  the  water,  and  put  thena  into  a  deep 
difhy  with  as  much  loaf  fugar  as  ^ill  fweeten,  cover 
them  with  puff-pafte,  and  bake  them.  When  baked^. 
cut  the  lid  in  pieces  likefippets>  and  itick  th^tn  round 

the 


APPLES,  19 

the  infide  of  the  pie>  with  the  poiQts  downwards,  pour 
iog  over  the  codlings  a  ciiftard^  made  as  follows : 

Boil  a  point  of  cream  with  aftick  of  cinnamon,  and  let 
it  ftand  till  cold ;  add  the  yolks  of  four  eggs  well  bea* 
ten,  and  as  much  fugar  as  will  fweeten  itj  fet  it  on  the, 
fire,  and  ftir  it  till  it  grows  thick,  taking  care  to  prevent 
curdling  j  jwur  it  over  your  pie,  and  when  cold  ferve 
it  up  for  a  fecond  courfe. 

Apple-Tart.  Scald  eight  or  ten  large  codlings,  and 
when  cold,  Ikin  therp ;  beat  the  pulp  very  fine  with  a 
filver  fpoon^  then  mix  the  yolks  of  fix  eggs,  and  the 
iphites  of  fpur :  beat  them  dl  together  as  fine  as  poffi- 
ble,  and  put  in  grated  nutmeg  and  fugar  to  your  cade : 
then  melt  Ibme  fine  frefh  butter,  and  beat  it  up  to  a  thick 
cream;  make  a  fine  puff-pafte,  line  a  tin  patty  pan 
with  it,  and  pour  in  rfw  ingredients,  but  do  not  cover  it 
widi  the  pafte  i  bake  it  a  quarter  of  an  hour,  then  flip  it 
out  of  the  patty  pan  into  a  difh,  and  ftrew  over  it  fome 
filgar  finely  t^at  and  fifted. 

Apple  Fraze.  Cut  your  apples  in<hin  dices,  and 
fiy  diem  of  a  li^t  brown  ^  lay  them  to  drain,  keep  them 
as  whole  as  you  can,  and  either  pare  them  or  not,  as 
you  think  proper ;  then  make  a  batter  as  follows :  take 
five  eggs,  leavii^  out  two  whiter,  beat  them  up  with 
cream  and  flour,  and  a  little  fack,  makmg.it  the  thick- 
nds  c£  pwcake  batter ;  pour  in  a  litde  melted  butter, 
autmeg,  and  a  litdc  fugar.  Let  your  batter  be  hot, 
drop  in  your  fi-itters,  and  on  everyone  lay  a  (lice  of  ap- 
pk,'  and  then  more  batter  upon  them  -,  fry  diem  of  a 
ii^t  ferown  colour,  and  when  ready,  ftrew  them  over 
fridi  dou|>le-refiiied  fugar. 

D  2  Applb 


lo  APRICOTS. 

Apple  Fritters.  Pare,  core,  and  flice  (bme  ap- 
ples J  make  a  batter  with  three  eggs,  a  little  grated  gin- 
ger, and  about  a  pint  of  good  milk ;  a  little  falc,  and 
flour  enoiigh  to  thicken  them ;  put  in  the  apples,  and 
fiy  diem  hard. 

Apple  Marmalade.  Scald  fbme  apples  in  water^ 
and  when  tender,  ftrain  them  through  a  fieve ;  to  every 
pound  of  apples  add  three  quarters  of  a  pound  of  fugar  j 
put  them  in  a  preferving  pan,  and  let  them  fimmer 
over  a  gentle  fire,  fkimming  them  all  the  time.  When 
they  are  of  a  proper  thicknefs,  put  diem  into  pots  qr 
glafles.  Codlins  are  the  beft  apples  to  ufe  for  this  pur- 
pofe.  In  this  manner  is  made  a  marmalade  of  apricots^ 
peaches,  neftarines,  &c. 


pm 


APRICOTS 

Are  a  fruit  better  adapted  for  confcftionary  pur- 
pofes,  than  to  be  eaten  raw,  efpecially  after  other  fbod> 
and  fhould  always  be  followed  by  a  glafs  of  generous 
wine. 

To  preferve  Green  Apricots.  For  this  purpofc  the 
apricots  mud  be  gathered  before  the  flones  become 
hard ;  rub  them  in  a  coarfe  cloth  with  a  handfuU  of  fait, 
to  take  off  the  down,  then  lay  them  in  a  pan  of  hard  wa- 
ter covered  clofe  with  vine  leaves  over  and  under  them, 
placing  them  over  a  very  flow  fire,  till  they  become  of  a 
fine  light  green  5  if  any  are  broken,  or  of  a  bad  colour, 
throw  fuch  out;  weigh  the  beft^  and  for  every  pound  of 

apricots,  take  a  pound  of  double-refined  fugar,  and  make 

# 


APRICOTS.  11 

it  into  fyrup  with  a  pinjt  of  water  i  into  this  put  the  apri- 
cots, boiling  them  gently  two  or  three  times^  but  let 
them  be  quite  cold  eacK  time.  When  they  are  plump 
and  clear,  add  the  juice  of  a  lemon,  and  boil  them  gent- 
ly I  put  them  into  pots  or  glaffes,  and  cover  them  with 
paper  dipped  in  brandy,  and  bladder  tied  over  it.  The 
broken  or  difcoloured  ones  will  make  tarts  for  preient 
liie. 

To  preferve  Apricots  in  Jelly.  Pare  two  pounds  of 
apricots,  and  fcald  them  in  boiling  water,  taking  care 
hot  to  break  them ;  then  put  them  into  a  preferviog  pan, 
with  a  fyrup  made  of  one  pound  of  fugar  and  one  pint 
of  water  -,  let  them  fimmer  flowly  for  five  minutes,  turn- 
ing them  gently,  and  fet  them  off  for  half  an  hour  5  re- 
peat this  three  or  four  times,  letting  them  be  thoroughly 
cool  each  time;  then  lay  them  on  a  fieve  to  drain,  and 
make  a  fyrup  as  follows :  put  together  a  pound  and 
quarter  of  double-refined  fugar,  and  nearly  a  pint  of 
water  5  place  it  on  the  fire  for  fifteen  minutes,  Ikim  it 
clean,  and  add  to  it  half  a  pint  of  ilrong  apple  jelly  or 
marmalade,  boil  it  ten  minutes,  wipe  the  apricots  with 
a  clean  cloth,  put  them  into  the  fyrup,  let  them  fim- 
'  mcr  to  make  them  look  clear,  then  put  them  carefully 
into  pots,  cover  them  well  with  fyrup,  and  tie  paper,  &c. 
as  above  direfted. 

Jnoiher  way.  After  paring  the  apricots,  thruft  out 
the  ftpnes  with  a  Ikewer,  crack  them,  and  replace  the 
kernels  after  pealing  the  (kins  off.  In  other  relpefts  pro- 
ceed as  above. 

Apricot  Pudding.  Coddle,  ftone,  and  bruife,  ten 
9r  twelve  apricots  ^  put  a  pint  of  boiling  cream  to  the 

crumb 


12  APRICOTS. 

crumb  of  a  penny  loaf  grated ;  when  ccM,  add  the  yolks 
6[  four  eggs,  fugar  to  the  tafte,  and  al(b  a  g^afs  of  Ma« 
deira  wine,  or  a  litde  brandy.  Lay  a  puff-pafte  over 
your  difh,  and  pour  in  the  ingredients.  Bake  it  half  an 
hour,  but  the  oven  {hould  not  be  too  hot. 

To  dry  Apricots.  Pare  and  ftone  a  pound  of  apri- 
cots, and  put  them  in  your  tofling  pan,  then  beat  and 
lift  a  pound  of  double-refined  fugar,  ftrew  a  litde  among 
your  apricots,  and  lay  the  reft  over  diem.  Let  them 
fbnd  twenty-four  hours;  turn  them  three  o^  four  times 
in  the  iyrup,  and  boil  them  pretty  quick,  till  they  feem 
clear.  When  cold,  lay  them  upon  glaffes,  turn  them 
tjvery  half  hour  die  iirft  day,  the  next  day  every  hour^ 
iwd  afterwards,  as  may  appear  neccffary. 

Conserve  cf  Apricots.  Peel  ripe  apricots,  flicc 
them  and  boil  to  a  marmalade,  with  a  drop  of  water ;  re- 
duce it  pretty  thick  on  the  fire,  mix  a  quarter  of  a 
found  6f  this  marmalade  to  a  pound  of  fugar  properly 
prepared,  and  work  it  well  together  when  it  begins  to 
•cool. 

Apricot  Wine.  A  wine  is  prepared  fi*om  this  fi-uit, 
und  held  by  many  in  much  eftimation;  the  apricots 
muft  be  managed  as  for  preferving  j  then  boil  together 
•!ix  pounds  of  fugar  and  fix,  quarts  of  water,  fkimming  it 
well,  into  which  put  twelve  pounds  of  apricots ;  after 
9  gentle  boil,  let  it  cool,  and  botde  it  for  ufc. 


APRIL. 


r  ^3  ] 

A  P  R  I  U 

The  produ£b  and    provifions   of   this  month   (land 

as  follows:    . 


Meat. 

Mutton, 
Grafs  lamb. 

Veal,    ' 

PoiTLTRY. 

Chickens, 

Ducklings, 

Fowls, 

Levcret% 

Rabbits, 

Pullets, 

Pigeons. 


Fish. 
Salmon, 
Turbot, 
Carp, 
Tench, 
Trouts, 
Lobfters, 
Crabs, 
Cray-filh^ 
Herring, 
Mullets, 
Soles, 
Smelts, 
Prawns, 


Scate, 
Chubs. 

Vegetables. 

Small  falading, 

Afparagus, 

Lettuce, 

Celery, 

£ndive, 

Spinage, 

BrocoTi, 

Sprouts, 

Colewort, 

Young  carrot». 


.Young  onions. 

Beet, 

Chervil, 

Radifiies, 

Sorrel, 

Tarragon, 

Pot  herbs  of  all 

forts, 
Parfley. 

Fruit. 

Apples, 

Pears, 

Orange8« 


From  the  above  lift  of  things  in  feafon,  a  variety  of 
bills  of  fare  may  be  arranged,  of  which  the  following 
may  ferve  as  examples. 

DINNER    OF    TWO    COURSES. 

Firft  Courfe. 

Vermicelli  foup. 

Removed  with  ftewed  carp. 

Petty  potties  of  kmbk  Brocoli.  Three  finall  chlckeis 

boiled. 
Plain  butter.  Ham  boOed,  Pariley-fauce. 

Neckof  Teal  boiled.  Spinage.  Rice  pudding. 

Saddle  of  mutton  rdaited. 


Sntfiered  cakes«i 

AppleTi 
Oneam  paocakcf  • 


Second  Courfe^ 

^  DuckliotgB  roafted  with 
Green  fauce. 
Preferred  apricots. 

Jellies. 

Preferred  orange* 

Pigeons  roafted  witlv 
Pariley-iauce. 


Cuftaxds* 

^ifiachjo  nuts* 

Fri^d  fmelts. 


-DINNER 


S4 


ARITHMETIC. 


DINNER    OF    THREE    COURSES. 

Firji  Courfe. 

Crimp  cod  and  fmelts. 
Marrow  pudding. 
Breaft  of  veal  in  olio.  Beef  tremblant. 

Spring  foup. 
Chickens.  Cutlets  ^  la  Maintenon. 

Pigeon  pie. 
Lamb's  tsdls  ^  la  jiafliemel.  .  Tongue. 

Whitings  boiled  and  broiled. 

Second  Courfe* 

Ducklings. 

Tartlets. 


Aiparagus. 

Roaft  fweetbreads. 

Scewed  pears. 


Jellies  and  fyllabubs. 
Tanfey. 
Ribs  of  lamb. 


Black  caps. 

Oyfter  loaves. 

Mufhrooms* 


Mufhrooms. 
Marinated  fmelts; 
Blanched  almonds. 


Third  Courfe. 

Petit  Pigeons. 
French  plums. 

Sweetmeats. 

Raifins. 


Piftachio  nuts. 

Cream  pancakes* 

Artichoke  bottoms. 


Calves*  ears  ^  la  braife. 


ARITHMETIC. 

This  is  a  fciencc  which  explains  the  properties  of 
numbers,  and  fliews  the  arc  or  niethod  of  computing 
by  them.  As  the  knowledge  of  this  art  is.indifpenfably 
neceflary  to  young  women,  who  take  upon  them  the. 
ftation  of  Jioufekeeper  to  a  family,  or  to  young  mar-. 
ried  ladies,  who  wifli  to  conduft  their  families  with 
prudence  and  oeconomy;  and,  indeed,  to  cooks  (as  \^c 

2  have 


A  R  I  T  H  M  £  T  I  a  If 

have  obfdvcd  tuider  that  hdad)  we  ha^  iMfa  eticka- 
voured  to  gi^e  t  cleau*  afid  concife  tSi^at^e  on  th^  firll 
four  rules>  which  is,  pei^h;;^  aH  tlhat  in^  ndcoffiuy  to 
innety-nifle  pcopte  cwr  of  a  hundred,  and  which,  we 
hope,  may  be  pcrie^y  \ifiderftood  bf  a  little  atten<» 
tion,  without  help  of  a  maftcr,  particularly  with  the 
affiftanee  of  the  Tablss  wq  ffiall  give  in  th&  cowfe  of 
die  workt 

Tf9  xf  m^  ^  A  A,  T  I  o  ti 
Teaches  us  te  read'  or  write  any  fum  in  6gureS|  M- 

coxtSngf  tD'  die  foUowing  tabi^; 

12     Tens, 

2  ^4^4$.    fens  of  th6ufaod9. 
123,456    Hundreds  of  thofulands* 
i,>34,S67  _  MHlidns. 
x»,345^67S    Tens  /of.mfllkms*. 
i»3i4S.6t789    Hundreds  of  miUiOn»« 

The  aboire  Tabk,  rdad  from  top  to  bottom,  beginning 

with  the  fingle  figure^  trill  be  iil  Ixrords^  aa  follows ; 

r  One, 

J9f  T#elvc« 
r«3  One  hundred*airt'twc»sij?=thf«f. 

ii^3^4  OnethoitfakiAtWohuiLcfred^and  thhttt^fbmlt 
**>345  Twrfye  fteolSind  thre*  Iftfficfr^d  and 
i23t»4$i  One  hundred  and  tvretty^threc  tbjomfaad  tbilr  hundred 

atid  fIftjr-fijK 
'9^34«S^2  Oac  mtUioo^  twobutdr^d  am)thirt;j^ur.thouland, 

five  hundred  and  Exty-feven, 
129345,678  TweAremillioxl^thtieehtmdrtdaf^dfoity-fivtthoufand, 

fix  huitdriMl  aKi&vent}Mghj^ 
|S(3t456,789  One  hundred  and  tweitfy^tlu'te.xiiUtiohv  foUr  hundred 

and  fifty^i»thiiufa»d,  k^fiMt hjmtjfc^mAdkf/ktf^ 
wne. 

A   0   D   I  T   I  0   N« 

The  firft  rule  in  arkhmetic  is  Addition,,  by  which  we 
add  one  or  more  funnsi  tOgethcTv 

Yoi^nU       .  £  'Carc 


a6 


A  R  I  T  I^  M  E  T  I  C. 


Care  mxift  be  t^en  here  in  fetting  down,  or  pimping 
the  figures.  Units  muft  be  put  under  units,  tens  under 
tens^  and  &>  on,  as  in  the  following  fyrns : 

£.  To  add  thefe  firures  together,  begin  with  the 

units  in  t|:ie  lower  Tide,  and  add  theni  to  the  units 
above,  proceeding  on  fo  to  the  top.  Thus  %  and 
I  is  3  ;  3  and  5  is  8  jj  8  and  7  is  15;  then  fet 
down  the  5  under  the  units,  and  carry  the  10  to' 
the  tens ;  thus  i  ten  and  4  is  ^ ;  $  and  3  is  8  ^ 
8  anci  8  is  16,  that  is  16  tens ;  put  down  the  6 
under  the  tens,  and  carry  the  ten  6t  ten  tens,' 
that  is,  the  one  loq  to  the  hundreds ;  thus  i  and  i  is  2  ;  then  put 
dpwn  the  a,  and  the  fiim  total  will  be  265. 
*  'To  prove  whether  this  "be  done  right,  add  the  figures  over. again, 
but  begin  at  t^e  top,  and  reckoii  downwards  ;  for  esfj^mple,  f  and  ^ 
is  12 ;  12  and  i  is  13  ;  17  and  2  is  15  ;  and  fo  on;  and  if  the  fuiu' 
total  is  the  fame  as  the  firft,  the  Work  is  fuppofed  to  be  right  done* 

ADDITION    AND    SUBTRACTION    TABLE. 


?7 

S 

Total    »65;f. 


I 

2 . 

3 

'  4 

5 

1 

8 

9 

»•■ 

4 

S 

6 

7 

8 

9. 

10 

II 

3 

5 

6 

7 

1 

8 

# 

9 

10 

1 

II 

i» 

4 

6 

7 

8 

9 

10 

.  II 

• 

12 

»3 

S 

7 

8 

■ 

9 

10 

u 

:  12 

'13 

14' 

6 

8 

9 

10 

II 

12 

»3 

H 

'5. 

'  7 

9 

ID 

II 

l^ 

'3 

H 

•  •• 

16 

8 

10 

11 

* 

13 

H 

H 

1$ 

17 

9 

II 

12 

."3 

»4' 

ji 

16 

JT_ 

18 

The  ufe  of  this  table  in  addition. 

To  find  what  any  two  figures  make,  fuppofe  6  and  8  5  look  for  6 
ID  the  firft,  or  left-hand  column,  and  8  m  tne  top  Une,  and  the  fu|n 
in  the  angle  made  by  the  two  lineii  will  be  14,  llie  anfwer  required. 


Thus 


The 


ARITHMETIC* 
The  u(e  of  this  table  in  fubtra&ion. 


87 


To  find  what  film  any  one  fi^;ure9  fubti-a£ied  or  taken  from  the 
other,  will  leave ;  fuppofe  4  from  11;  look  for  4  in  the  firft  of 
left-hand  column,  and  i  i  iii  the  fame  line  with  4 ;  then  carry  your 
eye  to  the  top,  and  the  figure  in  the  top  liiie  over  the  1 1  will  b^  7, 
the  thing  required. 


thui 

7 

II 

14|" 

Sums  in  addition^  where  they  confifl  oiily  of  one 


uHJUumiiiuuii^ 

vriicuicr    ^ 

njun%A9^      iiuiiwj 

U^Ud)        illVIlL 

^75,  &c: 

1 

/. 

Cwt. 

Months; 

pays* 

HS 

»75 

' 

43 

3«i 

i3»x 

27014 

4 

48 

ic7d 
7650 

35766 

3* 

9 

4»x09 

'as  5 

43 

1   » 

8329 

89765 

Total  i439£' 

696  Cwt; 

18870  Mon. 

194738  Days 

ADt>ITION   OF   MONEYj   WEIGHTS,   AND    MEASURESi 


30 
40 

$0 
60 

70 

So 

90 

100 

110 


Of  Money. 


PENCE  TABLE. 


12 
*4 

48 
60 


s. 

d. 

• 

IS 

1 

8 

-- 

% 

6 

— 

3 

4 

-^ 

4 

* 

v\ 

7  6 

8  4 

9  • 
10    o 


r 


9 

108 

1 20 
13* 

»44 


%    = 


J, 

is  I 

—  3 

—  4  i 

—  9  ! 

—  i<5 

—  II 
— *  12 


SHILLING   TABLE. 


20 

30 
40 

SO 

60 

76 
80 
90 

loo 
no 

120 


18 


Thcfe  tables  Ihould  be  gotjby  heart. 


I.  s. 

X  o 

I  10 

2  O 

2  10 

3  ^ 

3  10 

4  o 

4  fO 

5  o 


£» 


If 


%« 


ARITHMETIC 


If  tbe  moiM^be  tn^ilk^  toM6xiZ^pafmAu  ftoICngs,  pence, 
Uii  fvtbinpv  tbc  (vim  muik  be  fp  placed,  that  tbf  pouadb  Ihsdt  be 
under  porund^  iUUliags  under  (hiQln^p,  and  to  on.    Tbut, 

Te  caft  up  thefe  Uam  hem  at  botton 
wkh  the  fartlHt)^ ;  tbiM  »aad«  t$|$  3  ami 
a  b  6 ;  now  6  farthings  is  enc  pMPf  >  and  » 
nirthings  over ;  fet  down  then  the  2  fisur- 
thingSy  and  cariy  the  penny  to  the  pence  : 
■  thus  I  penny  and  7  is  8  ;   8  and  7  is-  15  ; 

Total  ^85      8  I  if     1$  and  8  is  23;   now,  by  the  pence  table, 
^       t  you  will  &ui  that  23d.  is  is.  iid.  put  down 

the  tid.  under  the  pence,  SODd  cany  the  is.  to  the  fliillings:  thus 
I  and  j  is  6  ;  6  ao4  i^  »  iB  ;  18  and  10  is  ^8  ;  now  28s.  by  the 
ftflUtig  tabi«9  appears  to  be  il.  8s.  ict  down  then  8s*  under  the 
flyjiina^  and  cany  the  il.  to  the  pounds ;  thus  i  aad  4  is  $ ;  { 
and  5  IS  10;  10  and  5  is  15  ;  put  down  then  the  unit  5  under  the 
units  of  ^e  pounds,  and  carry  the  1  ten  to  the  tens ;  thus  i  and  4  u 
c  ;  ;  and  1  ]f6 ;  6  and  2  is  8 ;  then  put  down  the  8,  and  the  fum  it 
done;  viz.  ^^8$    8    xi|. 

In  cafting  up  weights  or  meafijres,  whether  the 
weights  be  troy  or  avoirdupois,  or  whether  the  mea- 
fures  be  cbth,  wine,  or  land,  it  is  done  in  tlic  fame 
manner  as  po^jnds,  (hillings,  and  pence,  knowing- only 
how  many  drams,  or  penny-weights,  make  an  ounce ; 
how  many  inches  a  foot,  &c.  which  may  be  known 
from  the  following  very  ufefol  tables: 

84  Gallons  r  puncheon, 
iJTiercc  i  hogfliead, 
2  Hogibeads  i  pipe  or  butt, 
2  Pipes  t  tun. 
By  this  meafiire-all  brandies, 
fpirits,  mend,  cyder,  perry,  and 
oil,,  are  nicafured. 


AME   AND  BEER   MEASURE. 

•  rinti  make  i  quart, 
4  Quarts  z  gallon, 

8  Gallons  i  fii  kin  of  ale, 

9  Gallons  i  firkin  of  beer, 
2  Firkins  1  kilderkin^ 

2  Kilderkins  »  b:uTel, 

3  Kilderkins  i  hogflicad, 
3  Barrels  i  butt. 

WINE    MEASURE. 

4  Gills  make  i  pmt, 

a  ri\it8  I  quart, 

4  C^iatts  1  gallon, 

42  Galluns  X  tierce, 

6j  Gallons,  t  ho)((licad| 


DRY    MBaSure, 
2  Pints  muke  i  quart| 
2  Quarts  t  pottle, 
2  Pottles  I  gallon, 
2  Gallons  I  peek^ 

4  Pecks  I  btifliel, 

8  Bufhels  I  quarter, 

5  Q^jarten  i  wcy  or'load. 


J  Pecks 


ARITHMETIC 


ft0 


J  Pecks   z   imfiiel  of  water 

mrafure^ 
4  Buihels  I  coooib^ 
2o  Coombs   I  wey, 
%  Weys  I  laRi)f  <;orn« 

By  this  vaMaett  fait,  lead- 
wt^  vfvtT%^  ooniy  fBd  cither 
dry  pmiB  are  mcc&red 


CLOTH    MEASURE. 

ft|Inche8  make  i  nail, 

4  Nails  I  qaaiterofajrH'4 

4  Quarters  i  yard, 

5  Quarters  I  dl  SngUft^ 
3  Quaiters  i  icll  Flemifli, 

6  Qiiarters  i  ell  French. 


NM 


LONG    MEASURS. 

3  Barky-coms  make  i  »nrh, 
IS  Inches  i  Foot^ 
I  3  Feet  1  yard, 

5|  Yards  i  pole, 
40  Poles  I  furbng; 

8  Furlongs  i  mile, 

3  Miles  I  leafue, 
£o  Leagues  i  degree, 
69|Miles  i  degree^ 

This  treats  of  length  only. 


CTTBIC    MEASURE. 

ijtS  Cttbi^  inches  t  foot, 
zy  Cubic  £eet  x  cubic  yard. 

Thig  cofapMkeiuis  kmnlv 
bi|padth»  and  tUclmf& 


S<2yARE    MEASURE. 

X44  Square    inches   1    fquare 

foot, 

9  Square  feet  i  fquare  yard, 

Sol^quife  yards  i  fqf.  poks, 

40  S^pure  poles  i  for.  ixxnl, 

4  Square  roods  i  (qr.  «cre, 

640  Square  acm  i  fqr»  mile. 

This  tadudes   ieagth   and 
weadth* 


CORK  MtASmt. 

a  Qgarts  imku  i  poitk^ 

a  Pottles  1  galloBy 

a  Gallons  2  peck, 

4  Pecfcs,arisalk>ft«,  tijuflid, 

8  Bufiels  t  quarter  or  vait, 

i  Quaiters  of  wheat,  bisans,  or 

peas,  I  kMid, 
10  QjjarDers  of  «au  i  ImJL 


COAL   MEASURE* 

4  Pecks  noake  i  bufhel, 
9  Buihels  I  vat  or  ftrike, 

36  Bufliels  I  chaldron, 

ai  Chaldron  i  fcore* 

Note*  In  $  chaldrons  of  coafs 
the  feller  always  gives  9  bufheb 
over. 


AV0IRDUP0I2E  WEIGHT* 

16  Drams  make  z  ouacCf 

marked        ■■   ■  ■        ez^ 

16  Ounces  i  pound,  /^« 

it  Pounds  I  quaner  of  a  hun* 

dred,         »     ■■  ^r* 

4  Quarters   i  hundred,  or 

112  lb.        -^         cvuu 

ao  Hundred  i  ton,       •—    T^ 

Butter,  cheefe^'fiefh,  grocery 

wares,  and  all  goods  that  hate 

wafie,  are  weighed  by  this. 


TROY   WEIGHT. 

4  GraiOB  make  c  cairatp 
£4  Grains  z  peony-weight, 

marked  --^  Jwi* 
ao  Pennyweights  1  ounce,  oz» 
la  Ounces  i  pound,  /^^ 

By  this  Weight  jewels,  gold, 
fil^^er^  amber,  Btc.  are  weigh* 
ed.  14  ounces,  it  penny* 
weightSf  and  f$}  graius  troy, 
are  equal  to^  a  pound  avioir^ 
dupoite. 

APOTHECAEteS 


13» 


ARITHMETIC. 


APOTHECARIES  WEIGHT. 

SO  Gi:aiiis.  make  i  fcniple^ 

marked,        ■  9 

3  Scruples  i  diachm,  3 

8  Dradims  i  ounce,  ^ 

IS,  Ounces   i  pounds  ot  pint 

of  water,        —         fc 

Apothecaries  compound  their 
medicines  by  this  weight,  but 
buy  and  iell  by  avoirdupoize. 


TIME. 

6o  Seconds  make  i  minute^ 
6o  Minutes  i  hour,  • 
34  Hours  I  day, 
7  Days  I  week, 
4  Weeki  I  months 
13  Months,  t  day,.  6  hours ;  or 
365  days  and  6  hours^  x 
year. 


EXAMPLES    FOR    EXERCISE; 


Troy  Weight; 

6  18     SI 

7  15      6 

S       23       IS 

8  14    23 


Doth  Ufcafure. 

35    *    * 
76    s     I 

38    3    3 
4s    I     I 


Avoirdupoize  Weight; 

3  ^7    »     H     13 

5  »3    3    ^7     'S 

6  5     I     16    IS 

4  18    s     is   '  9 


Jr. 

IS 

10 

s 

7 


Land  Meafure. 

Acres,  rds\f€r* 
16     1     35 

?9    3     19 

37    3     H 
79    s    27 


Wine  Meafure; 

Hiis.  gal.  qU* 

44    S5    3 

93     '9    * 
63    23     I 

47    41    * 


SUBTRACTION. 


By  fubtraftion  wc  take  a  lefs  nufnber  from  a  grciteri 
and  fhew  the  difference  or  remainder. 


From 
Take 


284 
19O 


Remainder     88 


To  do  this,  begin  with  the  uhits  in  the  lefs  6r 
bottom  number,  and  where  you  cannot  take  the 
lower  figure  out  of  the  upper,  you  muil  borrovf 
10,  and  add  to  the  upper  figure,  taking  care  tl^ 
repay  to  the  tens,  wtien  you  come  to  them,  the  i 
Proof  284  ten  you  bbrrowed.  Thus  in  the  fum  in  the  mar^ 
—  gin,  6  from  4  you  cannot,  but  borrow  10,  and 
add  it  to  the  4*  which  makes  14  ;  now  take  6  ^om  14,  and  there  re- 
mains 8 1  fet  down  8  then  under  the  units,  and  carry  the  i,  which 
is  the  10  you  borrowed,  to  the  tens :  thus,  i  and  9,  which  makes 
10;  now  19  from  8  you  cannot,  but  [)orrow  10  as  before,  and  take 
the  10  from  the  18,  and  there  remains  8;  fet  down  this  .8  then 
lender  the  tens,  and  carry  t^e  i,  or  the  i  ten  you  borrowed,  to  the 

I  next 


ARITHMETIC 


S\ 


pert  figure,  which  added  to  the  i  makes  2  ;  now  z  taken  firom  • 
leaves  nothing,  of  courfc  you  might  fet  down  an  o  ;  but  an  o.  Oianfi^ 
mg  the  firft  figure  on  the  left  hand  reckons  nothing,  therefore  yo^ 
may  omit  fetting  down  that  o,  and  the  anfw^r,  or  remainder,  wiU 
be  88,  as  in  the  margin.  ' 

To  prove  whether  this  be  done  nght,  add  th^e  remainder  and:  the 
Ids  number  together;  and  if  the  fum  total  be  the  famp  aa  tho 
nppfcr  or  greater  number,  it  is  right  done, 

.  SUBTRACTION    OF   MONEY,    WEIGHTS    AND    MEAS^URES. 
I.       s.     d. 
From       317     16    9  J        Begin  with  the  farthings:     3  from 
Take      «98     18  i^J     i  ca^inot,  bop*osw  theycfo^c  (not  i  tea 
■  as  in  the  pounds,  but)  id.  being  one  o^ 

Reou  18     17     9i    the  next  fuperior  number;   thus  id« 

■    :.     or  four  farthings  added  to  1  farthings 

Proof       317     16    9i    makes  5  ;  npw  take  3  from  5,  and  there 
*  remains  2 ;  fet  down  then  %  farthings 

imder  the  farthings,  and  carry  the  id.  which  you  borrowed  to  the 
pence ;  thus  \  and  1 1  is  12  ;  now  1%  from  9  you  cannot,  but  bor« 
row  IS.  or  isd.  being  one  of  the  next  fuperior  number ;  add  this  is 
to  the  9,  and  it  makes  ^i ;  npw  12  from  21  and  there  remains  9  ; 
fet  doxvn  then  9  under  the  pence,  and  carry  the  is.  you  borrowed 
to  the  fiiilliogs  ;  thus  fay^  i  that  I  borrowed,  and  18  is  19 ;  19  from 
16  I  cannot,  but  borrow  £,  i  from  the  next  fuperior  number,  and 
add  this  jf.i  pr  20s*  to  ^^  16  ;  thus  20  and  16  is  36 ;  take  19  from 
36,  and  ther^  remains  17;  now  fet  down  1 7  under  the  fliillings,  and  • 
cany  the  jf.;  you  borrowed,  to  the  poui^ds ;  then  fay,  i  that  I 
borrowed  and  S  is  9  ;  9  from  '7  I  cannot,  but  9  from  17  (borrow^ 
tng  10)  and  there  remains  8 ;  put  down  8  under  the.  pounds,  and 
cany  die  t  ten  borrowed  to*  the  next  figure  \  thus  i  that  I  bor- 
rowed and  9  is  10 ;  10  from  1 1  cannot,  but  10  from  ri  (borrow- 
mg  I  again)  and.  there  remains  i ;  put  down  that  i,  and  go  on,  e 
that  I  borroM^  and  ^  is  3  ;  3  from  3  and  there  remains  notliing. 

To  provie  this,  add,  as  before  dire£ted,  the  remainder  and  the 
kfier  fum  together,  and  if  the  amount  be  the  fame  as  the  greater 
fum,  it  is  right  done. 

In  Troy  Weight,  confifting  of  ounces,  pennyweights,  and  grains, 
when  fubtra£l;ing  the  grains  '(if  necefTary)  borrow  a  pennyweight; 
ID  6ibtni£hng  the  peany weights,  borrow  (if  neceflary)  an  outiCe, 
.and  fb.  oo.  Whatever  you  are  fubtrading,  always  borrow  from  the^ 
fiext  fuperior  number,  till  you  come  to  the  greatefl  number ;  I  mean 
greatelt  in  deoominatiop,  not  in  quantity,  and  then  you  mufl  bor^ 


row  ten. 

Borrowed 
Paid 


709 


16 
13 


d. 

7l 
9l 


£.  S.  dm 

Lent        718     16    3I 
Received  697     12     8^ 


^mains  tp  pay     104      »    9I 

Remains  due   21      3    6| 

Proof          813     16    7| 

?^f      718     16    3f 

<iyEs* 


3t 


A  R  I  T  H  M  E  T  I  C 


Q^V   1   S   T   I    O    N    S. 

I»    The  pre&Qt  year  is  17^909  smd  I  was  bom  in  1756;  Haw« 
aid  am  I  ?— -^s/I  34. 

11.  A  tradelman  has  four  cuftomers,  A*  B*  C.  and  D«  wba  all 
tDfetber  owe  him  3271.  of  "this  A*  B.  and  C.  owe  him  ^jL— -How 
flonch  does  D.  owe  him? 

in*  A  gentleman  died  worth  3680L  he  left  two  daughters  i  to 
the  eldefk  he  left  his  houfe,  worth  900  guineas  ;  the  furniture,  va- 
lued at  3ftoK  watcheSf  jewels^  and  paintings,  valued  at  680  guineat. 
How  much  remained' to  the  youngeft  i 


MULTIPLipATfON. 

ne  TaUtu 


1" 

2 


3 

4 


6 


8 


111 
8t6 


■J 

IQ 


ts 


10 


12 


18 


20 


IT22 


>4 


nt 


1520 


18 


21 


24 


3® 


i 

n 


4 


S 


12 


lio 

^5 


16 


243-0 


32 


36 


40 


33  44 


*S 


i8|3S 
40 


45 


12 


18 


2024 

30 


36 


50607080 


48I60 


54 


5566 


H 


21 


28 


35 


4* 


4»l49 
48 


63 


^ 


16 


24 


3* 


40 


48 


S6 


5664 


7» 


18 


27 


36 


45 


54 


63 


,7* 


10 


zo 


30 


4«j 


« 
60 


70 


81 


77 


7284 


88 


*> 


99 


106 


80 


90 


100 


ji 


22 


3J 


44 


55. 


66 


12 


24 


a* 


48 


77 


88 


9« 


TIO 


iro 


60 

7» 

84 
96 


108 


r«j- 


121 


tl2 


'3> 


r'4 


•44  I 


To'  ufs  Ms  table ;  fnppofc  you  wtnted  tor  kno\*»  how  maay  is 
^ftmes  7  ^  Loelf  for  the  frgore  9  iq  the  flrft  column  oar  ttie  left 
Itandy  and  the^  figure  7  in  thetoplioej  and  the  BunAer  fogght  far 
will  b»  foiMKt  in  tiie  angte-  Between  them. 


Thus. 


ftr 


ARITHMETIC.  SS 

By  nndtiplicati<Hi,  we  fave  the  trouble  of  a  great  many  addition! 
bf  the  fame  number.  ThTi?,  inllead  of  adding  3  ten  times  together 
to  make  30,  we  multiply  3  by  lo,  to  piioduce  &e  fame  amount. 

In  this  nilc  there  are  three  terms  to  be  remembered,  viz. 

I  •  The  miiltiplkand,  or  number  to  be  multiplied. 
s»  The  multiplier,  or  number  by  which  we  multiply* 
3.  Theproduft,  or  number  produced  by  multiplying. 

Multiply  3*5  ^y  7* 
Set  your  figures  down  thus  t 

Multiplicand-   325 
Multiplier  7 

Frodudt  £275 

This  done,  multiply  firft  the  units  of  the  mukiplicand  by  the 
iniiltiplier.  Thus  lay,.  ^  above,  f  times  5  is  35  ;  then  fet  down 
5  under  the  units,  and  cany  the  3  in  your  mind ;  then  multiply  the 
^d  figure  in  the  multiplicand  by  the  multiplier,  and  fay,  7  times  % 
is  14,  and  the  3  that  I  brought  from  the  units  is  17  ;  fet  down 
the  7,  and  carry  on  the  i,  as  before ;  then  multiply  the  next  figure, 
and  lay  7  times  3  is  2 1,  and  the  i  I  carried  is  22.  This  3  being 
the  lau  figure  to  multipty,  fet  down  the  22,  and  the  produd  or 
anfwer  win  be  2275.  • 

MULTIPLICATION   OF    MONEYj    &CC9 

Multiplicand      ^5     13    2^ 
Multiplier  3 

Produft  7*6    19    7i 

To  do  this  multiply  firft  the  farthings;  iay  3  times  2' farthings  is 
6,  that  is  id.  and  ±  farthings  over;  fet  down  the  2  farthings,  and 
cany  the  id.  to  the  pence;  then  fay  3  times  2d.  is^dd.  and  the 
penny  I  brought  from  the  farthings  is  7d»  fet  down  then  the  7d« 
under  the  pence^  and  proceed  to  the  fliilltngs.  Next  multiply  the 
ihilling?,  and  fay,  3  times  13  is  39  ;  that  is,  il.  19s.  put  down  the 
19s.  and  cany  the  il.  to  the  pounds^  faying  3  tinkes  5  is  15,  and  the  iL 
brought  from  the  IhiUings  is  16 ;  put  down  the  '6  under  the  units 
tof  the  p<)undsj  and  carry  the  r,  or  one  ten,  to  the^next  figure  ;  thus 
3  times  2  is  6  and  i  is  7^  put  down  the  fj  and  the  fum  is  done.-— 
76I.  I  OS.  7|d. 

Multiplication  of  any  meafure  or  weight  may  be  done  in  the  fame 
way,  remembering  only  to  divide  the  product  by  as  many  of  tha 
as  make  one  of  the  next  fuperior  quantity,  fetting  down  the  re* 
mainder  and  adding  the  quotient  or  produS  of  fuch  divifion  to  the 
next  fuperior  qu^tity^  after  it  is  multiplied,  as  was  done  in  pounds. 

Vol.  li  F  ihUlings, 


'^4  'ARITHMETIC. 

i  "   ' 

-  ihiliingsi  and  pence^  carrying  the  pence  to  the  fhillings,  and  tlie 
Ihillings  to  the  poundfl. 
To  bring  pounds  or  .{hillings  into  pence,  multiply  the  pounds  by 

•  «o  (there  being  ftos,  in  a  £.)  and  add  the  (hillings  to  them ;  that 
produdt  will  be  ihillinga  -,  then  multiply  tlie  faid  product  by  i  Zy 
adding  the  pence,  to  bring  them  into  pence,  there  being  i2d.  in  is. 

In  760I.  143*  I  od,  how  many  pence  ? — Proceeding  by  the  above 
direction,  you  will  find  this  fum  to.  contain  182578  pence. 

DIVISION. 

This  rule  teaches  us  to  find  how  often  one  number  is  contained 
in  another,  and  how  to  divide  any  number  into  as  many  parts  as  we 
pleafe. 

1 .  The  number  to  be  divided  is  called — The  Dividend. 

2.  The  nimiber  by  which  we  divide  is  called — The  Divifor. 

3.  The  number  that  fliews  how  often  the  divifor  is  contained  in 

•  the  dividend,  is  cailed-^The  Quotient,       .      ♦      • 

If  there  be  any  remaining  number,  after  the  work  is  done,  it  is  of 
^e  fame  name  or  denomination  as  the  dividend. 

When  the  divifor,  or  number  you  divide  by,  does  not  exceed  i2"g 
^  your  divifidn  may  be  ihort  and  eaiily  done. 
Thus,  divide  78510  by'4. 

Dividend. 
Divifot  4  )     78510     (  2  Remainder, 

19627  the  Quotient. 

Place  the  figures  as  above,  then  lay,  Haw  nuny  times  4  in  7  ? 
that  is,  How  many  times  is  the  divifor  contained  in  the  firfl  figure  of 
the  dividend  ?  i  and  3  over ;  put  down  i  then  under  the  7,  and 
carry  the  3,  as  3  tens  to  the  next  figure  8,  which  makes  38  ;  then- 
fay,  how  many  fours  in  38  ?  9  times  4  is  36 ;  there  are  nine  fours 
therefore  and  2. over  j  put  down  9  under  the. 8,  and  carry  the  2  to 
the  next  figure  5  j  then  fay,  how  many  fours  in  25  ?  6  times  4  is 
24,  and  I  over ;  put  down  the  6  under  the  5,  and  carry  the  i  to  the 
next  figure  i,  which  makes  that  i  11:  how  many  fours  in  11?  ^ 
'  times  4  is  8,.  and  3  over ;  put  down  2  under  the  r,  and  carry  the  3 
to  the  o,  which  makes  it  30 ;  then  fay,  how  many  times  4  is  30  ? 
7  times  4  is  28^^  and  2  over  ;  put  down  then  the  7  under  the  o^ 
and  place' this  laft  remaining  2  as  you  fee  it  placed  in  the  fum  above. 
This  remainder  is  of  the  lame  name  or  denomination  witli  the  di- 
vidend ;  if  that  be  pounds,  this  remainder  is  pounds ;  if  that  bo 
yards,   this  remainder  is  yards,  and  lb  on. 

When  the  divifor  coniifts  of  more  than  one  figure,  you  muH  pro- 
ceed in  the  foilo\7ing  manner.  To  divide  ^34^8  by  25,  place  the 
divifor  and  dividend  as  in  the  foregoing  example — tlien 

Say  how  many  times  25  in  53  ?  2.  Put  down  then  2  in  the  quo- 
tient, and  multiply  the  divifor  25  by  2*-  Twice  25  is  5a ;  put  down 
50  under  the  firft  two  figures  of  the  divideiKi,  and  fi^tra£t  it  fron^ 
tbemt  the  remainder  will  be  3  j  to  this  3>  bring,  down  the  next 
figure  of  the  dividepd^  4,  which,  .annexed  to  the  3,  will  make  34, 
for  a  new  dividend  3  then  l;iy>  how  many  times  25  in  34  ?  z  ••  Put  down 

the 


A  R  T  I  C  H  O  K  E  S.  3^ 

the  I  in  the  quotient  5  by  this  i  multiply  the  divifor  25,  fet  dowa 
the  produ4a  under  the  34,  and  fubtraft  die  25  from  34,  which  leaves 
9  ;  to  this  9  bring  down  the  next  figure  6  of  the  dividend,  as  before, 
and  continue  doing  the  fame  till  the  whole  is  finifhed,  and  you  will 
■find  there  is  ^138  times  25  in  53468,  and  18  ov^er. 

When  there  are  any  cyphers  at  the  end  of  the  divifor,  to  fhorten 
the  vvork,  thev  may  be  cut  off;  but  then  you  muft  aMo  cut  off^s* 
many  figures  n"om  the  end  or  right  hand  of  the  dividend  as  you 
cut  off  from  the  di^^for,  taking  care  at  the  laft  to  annex  thofe  figures 
cut  from  the  dividend  to  the  remainder.    Thus, 

Dividend. 
Divifor  2>oo  )  7896,54  (  54  is  remainder. 
Quot.  3948 

« 

To  bring  pence  into  pounds  divide  by  12,  to  bring  them  int» 
fliillin^s,  and  that  quotient  by  20,  to  bring  the  fhillings  into  pounds  ; 
but  when  you  have  brought  the  pence  into  fliillings,  infleadof  di<* 
viding  by  20,  you  may  cut  off  the  laft  figure  on  the  right  hand,  and. 
take  half  the  reft,  that  is,  divide  by  2  :  this  half  will  be  pounds  j 
if  there  be  i  remaining  that  i  will  be  ios«  to  which  add  the  laft 
figure  cut  off,  which  is  ihillings  alfo. 

In  7699d.  how  many  pounds  ? — An/l  32k  is.  yd. 

Jo  36^717  fliillbgs  how  many  pounds  ?— -rf/r/l  182851.  i78# 


ARTICHOKES, 

This  vegetable  is  employed  for  many  culinary  pur- 
poies,  the  moft.ufefol  of  which  we  fhall  enumerate  s  it 
is  laid  to  be  very  nutritive^  at  the  fame  time  it  is  ac- 
knowledged ^to  create  wind. 

To  drefs  Artichokes.  Twift  the  ftalks  off,  put  the 
heads  in  cold  water  and  wafh  them  well  j  when  the  wa- 
ter boils,  put  them  in  with  the  top  downwards,  that  all 
the  duft  and  fand  may  boil  out :  let  them  boil  till  the 
leaves  come  ofF  eafily ;  they  may  then  be  ferved  up  in 
little  cups  with  melted  butter. 

To  dry  Artichoke  Bottoms.  Pare  ofF  the  leaves  of 
a  quantity  of  artichokes,  boil  them  till  you  can  take  out 

F  ^  '  the 


^6  ARTICHOKES. 

the  chokes^  then  ftring  them  with  a  packthread  an(] 
needle,  hang  them  in  a  warm  kitchen,  or  put  them  in  i 
flow  oven  to  dry;  when  you  would  ufc  them,  Ibke  them 
all  night  in  warm  water,  hoil  them,  and  ferve  them  up 
with  gravy  and  butter,  and  a  little  lemon  juice. 

To  pickle  Artichoke^.  Cut  the  leaves  off  four  do-, 
zen  of  artichokes  5  boil  them  till  you  can  take  out  the 
chokes,  putting  them  into  a  pan  with  fomc  water  as  you 
do  them ;  when  you  have  finifhed,  fet  your  ftewpan  on 
the  fire,  with  a  large  handful  of  fait,  a  little  vinegar,  the 
juice  of  a  lemon,  and  fome  beef  fuet ;  let  it  boil  ten 
minutes,  and  let  your  brine  be  pretty  Talt ;  put  them 
into  a  jar  that  will  juft  hold  them,  then  pour  in  the  li- 
quor, with  Ibme  rinded  mutton  fuet  over  it ;  tie  them 
clofe  down  with  ^  bladder  and  leather,  and  keep  the^i 
in  a  dry,  cool  place : — when  ufed,  foke  them  in  warm 
water  for  twenty-four  hours. 

To  fricajfee  Artichokes,  Take  artichoke  bottoms^, 
cither  dried  or  pickled ;  if  dried,  you  muft  lay  them  in 
warm  water  for  three  or  four  hours,  fliifting  the  water 
two  or  three  thnes  j  then  have  ready  a  little  cream  and 
a  piece  of  frefh  butter,  into  which  put  the  artichokes 
when  it  is  melted  -,  and  when  they  are  hot,  difli  them 
up. 

Tofiy  Artichokes.  Cut  your  artichokes  into  fix  or 
eight  pieces  each,  (taking  out  the  chokes  and  infide 
leaves)  wafli  them  very  clean;  make  a  batter  with  a  little 
flour,  one  egg,  a  fpoonful  of  vinegar,  and  a  little  milk ; 
let  it  be  very  fmooth,  but  not  too  thin  1  dip  in  the  arti- 
chokes, and  fry  them  with  frefli  butter.  They  may  be 
difhed  up  with  gravy  and  butter  j  or  you  may  put  a  IJjt- 

tic 


ARTICHOKES.  37 

tile  red  wine  into  the  butter,  and  feafon  with  nutmeg, 

pepper,  and  fait.     Serve  them  up  hot  in  a  fecond  courfe* 

Artichoke  Bottoms  with  Eggs.     If  frelh,  boil  the 

artichoke  bottoms  in  hard  water,  if  dry,  in  foft ;  put  a  good 

lump  of  butter  in  the  water,  which  will  make  them  boil 

in  half  the  time,  and  render  them  white  and  plump ;  when 

you  take  them  up,  put  the  yolk  of  an^hard  egg  in  the 

middle  of  every  bottom ;  pour  good  melted  butter  upon 

them,  and  ferve  them  up.     You  may  lay  alparagus  or 

brocoii  between  every  bottom. 

Artichokes,  Italian  fajhxon.  Cut  a  litde  oflF  the  tops 
of  the  leaves  of  fix  or  eight  artichokes,  boil  them  very 
temier^  and  take  out  the  choke,  but  let  all  the  outfide 
leaves  remain ;  put  them  into  a  ftew-pan  with  a  litde 
good  gravy,  parfley,  pepper,  fait,  fweet  herbs,  and  a 
litde  butter  rolled  in  flour ;  let  them  (lew  gently  for  a 
ihort  time,  take  them  out  carefully,  and  having  poured 
the  lauce  over  them,  adding  a  fqueeze  of  lemon ;  fervc 
them  up  in  a  iecond  c6urfe. 

tiagoo  of  ARTicHoitE  Bottoms.  If  the  bottoms 
have  been  dried,  ^t  them  lay  in  water  for  two  or  three 
hours,  changing  the  water ;  put  to  them  fomc  good 
gravy,  muihroom  catchup  or  powder,  kyan,  and  fait  5 
thicken  with  a  little  flour,  and  boil  together. 

Befides  itsufe  at  table,  the  bitter  juice  of  the  artichoke 
Uaf  mixed  with  an  equal  quantity"*  of  Madeira  wine,  is 
recommended  in  an  ounce  dofe,  night  and  morning,  as  a 
powerful  diuretic  in  the  D^iopsv,  An  infufim  of  the 
|taf  may  likewife  be  ufed. 

A  S  P  A- 


[     38     3 

ASPARAGUS. 

This  plant  is  cultivated  entirely  for  the  ufe  of  the  tabic  i 
it. is  faid  to  promote  appetite,  but  afford  litde  nourifh- 
mcnt ;  it  gives  a  itrong  ill  fmell  to  the  urine  foon  after 
eadng. 

9o.i^(7/7  Asparagus.  Scrape  the  alparagus,  wafli  it 
dean,  and  tie  it  up  in  fmall  bundles,  cut  even ;  put 
thcoi  into  a  faucc-pan  with  hard  water  and  a  litde  fait, 
and  when  they  are  a  little  tender,  which  will  be  in  about 
too  or  twelve  minutes,  take  them  up,  for  boiling  them 
too  mucK.  will  make  them  lofe  their  colour  and  flavour  j 
lay  them,  on  a  toafl:  that  has  been  dipped  in  the  water 
the  alparagus  was  boiled  in,  and  ferve  them  up  hot,  ei- 
ther with  melted  butter  in  a  bafbn,  or  poured  over 
them. 

7h  pickle  Asparagus.  Take  the  largeft  a(paragua 
you  c^n  get,  cut  off  the  white  ends,  and  wafh  the  greea 
ends  in  fpring  water,  and  put  them  in  another  clean 
water  for  two  or  three  hours ;  then  put  them  in  a  broad 
ft€w-pan  full  of  fpring  water,  with  a  handful  of  fait  j  fet 
ic  on  the  fire,  and  when  it  boils  put  in  the  grafs,  not  tied 
up,  and  not  too  many  at  a  time,  for  fear  you  break  the 
heads.  Juft  fcald  them  and  no  more,  arid  lay  them  on  a 
clbth  to  cool.  For  your  pickle ;  to  a  gallon  of  vinegar 
add  one  quart  of  fpring  wa^er,  and  a  handful  of  bay  fait  i 
let  them  boil  and  put  your  alparagus  in  your  jars ;  to  a 
gallon  of  pickle,  two  nutmegs,  a  quarter  of  an  ounce  of 
mace,  the  fame  of  whole  white  pepper,  and  pour  the 
pickle  hot  over  them.  Cover  them  with  a  linen  cloth 
foyr  times  double,  let  them  fland  a  week,  and  boil  the 
pickle.  Let  them  ftand  a  week  longer^i  boil  t,he  picklo 
I  again^ 


ASPARAGUS.  39 

tigain,  and  pour  it  on  hot  as  before.    When  diey  arc 
cold,  cover  them  up  clofe. 

To  ragoo  Asparagus.  Cut  fome  heads  of  aiparagus 
in  fnnall  lengths  as  far  as  they  arc  tender ;  blanch  them 
in  boiling  water  and  drain  them ;  put  them  into  a  ftew- 
pan  with  fome  gravy  and  a  flice  of  ham ;  feafon  them 
with  pepper,  fak,  and  nutmeg,  ftewing  them  gently 
till  tender  3  take  out  the  ham,  and  thicken  up  the  reft 
with  butter  and  flour,  adding  a  tea  Ipoonftil  of  vinegar : 
it  is  fometimcs  poured  over  a  buttered  toaft,  and  fomc- 
dmes  garniihed  with  fried  bread,  for  a  fccond  courfe. 

Jnoihef  'voay.  Scrape  and  cut  your  afparagus  as  above  1 
then  take  two  heads  of  endive  and  a  young  lettuce^ 
clean  picked,  and  a  large  oJiion  peeled ;  cut  them  all 
very  fmall  \  melt  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  butter  in  a 
ftcw-pan,  and  throw  in  the  above  ingredients  \  tofs  them 
about  and  fry  them  ten  minutes,  feafon  them  with  pep- 
per and  fait,  fliakc  in  a  little  flour,  tofs  theni  about,  and 
pour  in  half  a  pint  of  gravy*  Stew  them  till  the  faucc 
is  very  thick  and  good,  pour  all  into  your  difh,  and 
gamifh  it  with  a  few  of  the  litdc  tops  of  the  grafs. 

Asparagus  PeAse.  Pick  the  afparagus  as  fai*  as 
tender,  and  cut  them  in  fmall  round  flices  to  imitate 
peaie ;  boil  them  in  hard  water,  and  drain  them  when 
tender; 'then  put  them  into  a  ftew-pan  with  a  litdc 
cream,  butter,  and  flour,  the  yolk  of  an  egg  mixed 
with  cream,  a  litde  pepper,  felt,  and  a  bit  of  fugar,  the 
fize  of  a  fmall  nutmeg;  ftir  them  over  the  fire  v/ith  a 
wooden  Ipoon  till  thick,  then  put  it  in  a  dilh,  and  fervc 
it  up  hot  in  a  fecond  courfe. 

Asparagus  Soup.     Cut  four  or  five  pounds  of  ^cef 
into  pieces  j  fct  it  Over  die  fire  at  a  litde  diflance  to  draw, 

with 


40  ASTHMA* 

with  an  onion  or  two,  a  few  doves,  fbme  whole  black, 
pepper,  a  head  or  two  of  celery,  and  a  litdc  bit  of  but- 
ter. Put  in  a  quart  of  warm  beer,  three  quarts  of  warm 
beef  broth,  or  water,  and  let  them  ftew  till  enough. 
Strain  it,  taking  off  the  fat  very  clean  j  put  in  fome  af- 
paragus  heads  cut  fmall,  ^nd  a  tdaftcd  French  roll,  tak- 
ing out  the  crumb* 

The  above  is  a  very  good  and  fcrviccablc  foup  in  fa-« 
milies,  without  the  addition  of  the  jdparagUs* 


ASSES    MILK.      Sec  Milk. 


ASTHMA. 

This  is  a  difeafe  of  the  lungs  which  fbmetimes  admite 
of  palliation,  but  feldom  of  cure,  and  is  generally  one  of 
the  attendants  of  declinmg  years.  There  arc  two  kinds  ; 
the  moift,  which  is  accompanied  with  much  (pitting  5 
and  the  dry,  in  which  the  patient  feldom  fpits  but  by 
the  mere  force  of  coughing.  An  afthma  is  known  by  a 
difficult  and  laborious  breadiing,  performed  with  a  fort 
of  wheezing  noife,  fometimes  compelling  the  patient  to 
fit  upright  to  prevent  fuffocation  j  the  fymptoms  grow- 
ing worfe  towards  night*  A  fit  generally  happens  after 
being  expofed  to  cold  eafterly  winds,  or  fi*om  being 
abroad  in  thick  foggy  weather. 

All  that  can  be  done  by  Medicine  in  this  diforder,'is  to 
relieve  the  patient  when  feized  with  a  violent  fit.  As 
die  body  in  fuch  cafe  is  generally  bound,  a  purging  cfyf- 

tcr> 


ASTHMA.  4t 

ter,  (6ee  Oyftefy  No,  a.)  with  a  iblution  of  afafoetida, 
Ihould  be  immediately  adminiflered^  aixl  repeated  if  ne* 
ceflary^  The  patient's  feet  and  legs  ought  to  be  im- 
kncrfed  in  warm  water^  and  be  well  rubbed  with  a  dry 
cloth.  Bleeding  is. very  proper>  unleis  forbid  by  ex* 
treme  weakne6 ;  and  warm  fomentations  may  be  ap- 
plied to  the  (h>mach  and  breaft^  Sometimes  a  vomit 
has  very  happy  efie£t$ ;  but  it  is  beft  alter  the  other 
evacuations  have  been  tried  The  patient  muft  drink 
freely  of  diluting  liquors ;  and  in  the  moift  afthma,  fiich 
things  as(  promote  expefloratkm  ought  to  be  ufed.  In 
the  dry  or  nervous  afthma,  ftrengtheners  are  th«  moft 
proper  medicines ;  a"  tea-fpoonful  of  the  paregoric  elixir 
(Sec  TinSuris,  No.  14.)  may  be  takoi  twice  a  day;  The 
Peruvian  bark  is  aUb  of  ufe,  and  may  be  taken  in  fub^ 
ftance>  or  inflifed  in  wine.  Cow's  mUk,  draiik  warm  ia 
the  morning^  is  faid  to  have  a  good  effeft.  But  in  every 
fpecies'of  this  difbrder^  (etons  and  iflues  fhoukl  be  nude 
in  the  back  or  fidei  and  never  be  allowed  to, dry  up :  if 
they  do  not  cure  the  difeafe^  they  will  often  prolong  the 
patient*s  life. 

Afthmadc  people  ought  daily  to  take  as  much  exer* 
cife  as  they  can  pofiibly  bear^  either  qq  foot,  horfeback 
dr  in  a  carriage*  Their  food  ought  to  be  lights  and  oC 
eafy  digeftion;  boiled  meat  is  preferable;  and  every 
thing  windy  ought  to  be  avoided.  Strong,  and  efpe- 
cially  malt  liquors,  muft  be  avoided ;  li^t  fuppers,  or 
rather  none  at  all ;  the  cloathing  warm ;  thick  fhoes,  and 
attention  to  whatever  may  promote  perlpiration. 

But  nothing  is  of  {o  great  importance  in  the  afthma 
as  pure  and  moderately  warm  air.  Ailhmatic .  people 
can  feldom  bear  either  the  clofe,. heavy  air  of  a  large  town; 

Vol.  I.  G  '        ©r 


4i  ASTHMA. 

or  the  fhaf p,  keen  atmofpher e  of  a  bleak  hilly  country  { 
a  medium  is  therefore  to  be  chofen:  though  the  air  near 
a  large  town  is  often  better  than  at  a  diftance,  provided 
the  patient  be  removed  fo  faf  as  not  to  be  afFedbed  by 
the  fmoke  where  much  coal  is  burnt 

An  attention  to  the  foregoing  advice,  with  the  ufc  of 
the  medicines  hereunto  fubjoined,  witt  always  prove 
grcady  cfontributit'e  to  the  relief  of  ifthmatic  patients. 

1.  Take  two  rtiiddle-fized  cmions,  (lice,  bruife,  and 
boil  them  in  a  pint  stud  half  of  water  to  a  pint,  fijueeze 
out  the  liquid,  put  an  ounce  of  fugar  to  it,  and  drink  a 
tea-cupful  three  times  a-day. 

2.  Take  a  tca-fpoonful  6(  the  juice  of  garlick  three 
times  a-day  in  a  glafi  of  Lifbon  wine. 

3.  Take  maiden-hair,  cok's-foot,  and  faflkfras  fha- 
rings,  each  equal  parts,  cut  them  fmall^  and  make  them 
into  tea. 

4.  Talce  of  the  gum  piU,  one  dram  and  a  half  r  gum 
ammoniac,  half  a  dram  j  make  this  into  twenty-four 
pills  with  balfam  of  Peru ;  take  this  three  times  a-day. 

5.  To  five  ounces  of  emulfion  of  gum  ammoniac  add 
two  ounces  of  fimple  cinnamon  water,  die  fame  quan- 
tity of  balfamic  fyrup,  and  half  an  ounce  of  the  paregoric 
elixir^  Of  this  take  two  table-lpoonfuls  every  three 
hours.     (See  article  Emnljioij.) 

6.  Take  an  ounce  and  half  of  Peru  vian  bark,  half  an 
ounce  of  the  cxtrad  of  liquorice,  or  Spanifti  liquorice ; 
make  an  eleftuary  with  fyrup  of  orange  peel,  taking 
thrice  a-day  the  fize  of  a  nutmeg. 

7.  Take  flowers  of  falphur,  three  quarters  of  an  ounce; 
elecampane  root  and  liquorice  root,  each  half  an  ounce-) 


Ifs 


A  U  G  U  S  T^ 


43 


gnUeeds^  a  quarter  of  an  ounce :  make  an  eleftuary  with 
huney  i  take  the  fize  of  a  walnut  thrice  a-d^y. 


AUGUST, 

This  month  aflfords  a  plentiful  fupply  of  ifniits  and 
veget4bles  for  preferving  and  pickling.  The  following 
are  the  chief  productions  i 


M£AT« 

Beef, 

Buck  veniibD, 

Lamb^ 

Mutton, 

Veal. 

Poultry. 
Turkey  poults. 
Green  geefe. 
Ducklings, 
WUd  ducks. 
Chickens, 
Fowls, 
Pigeons, 
Pullets, 
JPbeafants, 
Wheat  ears. 
Plovers, 
Leverets, 
Rabbits, 


Fish* 
Carp, 
Cod, 
Crayfifli, 
Pike, 
Plaice, 
Mackarel, 
Herring, 
Haddocks, 
Lobfters, 
Eels, 
Prawns, 
Oyfters, 
Flqundersj^ 
Mullet, 
Scate, 
Thomback. 


Vegetables. 
All  forts  offal- 
lad. 


All    forts   of 

herbs, 
Artichokes, 
Spinagc, 
/Sprouts, 
Turnips, 
Cucumbers, 
Cauliflowers^ 
Carrots, 
Cabbage, 
Celery, 
Endive, 
Beans, 

Kidney  beans^ 
Oniony, 
Potatoes, 
Radifhes, 
Parfley, 
Mufhrooms, 
Garlick, 


Sfchalot, 

Salfafy, 

Scorzonera. 

Fruit. 
Goofeberries^ 
Currants^ 
Apples^ 
Pean, 
Plums, 
Peaches, 
Nedbirines, 

Mulberries^ 
Grapes, 

Melons, 

Cherries, 

Pine  apples^ 

f^berte* 


yor  the  table,  the  following  arrangement  ^ill  be 
jbund  a  very  propef  guide. 

DINNERS    OF    TWO    COURSES^ 

Firft  Caurfe. 

Soup  fante,  removed  \vith 
Tenderon  of  veal.  Haddocks.  Rabbit  coUopi^ 

with  pariiey.  French  beans« 

Fii^  iauce.  Pickled  mangoes^ 

Ducks  and  green  peas. 
Chicken  pie.  Mutton  cutlets,, 

^  laMaiatanon^ 
Pickles^  Sallad^         Plain  butter. 

Lamb  ftveetbreads,  Fricaftdo  of  veaU 

Wimbed  and  fried.  Roaft  foeef^ 

G  \  Siconit 


^«» 


44 


Lemon  pudding. 
Grapes< 


Three  pigeons  roafted. 

Plums. 


AUGUST. 

Second  Courfe. 
Leveret  roafted* 

Collared  eeL 

Salver  with  jellies* 


Apple  fritters. 


Pbttcd  lobftcr. 


Two  moor  game  rpafted* 


FricafTeeofmuflv^ 
rooms. 
Fine  apples. 

Fried  finelts. 
Cherries. 

Currant  tart; 


DINNER    OF    THREE    COURSES. 

Firjt  Courfe. 
Stewed  Soals. 


FtOets  €if  pig^ops. 
Trench  patty* 
Chickens. 


'  Macaroni; 
Cheefecakes. 
Matelot  of  eels. 


Stewed  pears. 
Apricot  tart. 

Fcawns* 


Hams. 

Cray-fiih  foup. 

Fillet  of  veal. 
WWtings. 

Second  Courfcm 

Road  ducks. 
Tartlet. 

Jellies; 

Orange  puffs. 

Leveret. . 

Ihird  Courfe. 
Partridge  si  la  pair. 

Potted  wheatears. 

Fniit. 
Scraped  beef. 

Ruffs  and  rees. 


Turkey  a  la  daube« 
Petty  patties. 
Ro&rd  of  beef  palates^ 


Fillet  of  foalr. 
Apple  pie. 
Fricaffee  of  fweetbreads^ 


Cray-fiih. 
Cut  paftry. 

Blanched  xeleiy. 


B.  BA- 


t    4J     ] 


B. 


BACON. 

When  the  hog  h  killed^  it  may  be  either  fcalded  <v 
Ibged^  but  finging  is  bell ;  cut  off  the  hams  and  head, 
and  take  out  a  chine,  if  it  be  a  large  one,  but  leave  in  the 
^are-ribs,  as  thcypreferve  the  bacon  from  rufting,  and 
keep  in  the  gravy ;  take  off  the  infi4e  fat  of  the  flitches, 
lay  them  on  a  long  board  or  dreffcr,  that  the  blood  may 
run  away,  rub  ihem  with  good  fait  on  both  fides,  let 
them  lie  thus  one  day ;  then  beat  very  fine  a  pint  of  bay 
lalt  and  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  falt-petre, — mix  them 
with  two  pounds  of  coarfc  fugar,  and  a  quarter  of  a  peck 
of  common  fait ;  lay  your  pork  into  the  pickling  tub,  and 
rub  it  well  with  thefe  ingredients ;  place  the  flcinhy  fide 
downwards,  and  bafte  it  well  every  day  with  the  piclde 
£»■  a  formight ;  then  hang  it  in  a  wood  fmoke,  and  after- 
wards in  a  dry  place,  but  not  hot :  indeed,  bacon  and 
hams  fliould  always  hang  clear  of  every  thing,  and  not 
againft  a  wall.  Obferve  to  wipe  off  all  the  old  fait  be- 
fore you  put  the  pork  into  the  above  pickle  5  alfo  rub  on 
a  litde  dry  fait  before  you  hang  it  up ;  and  never  keep 
bacon  nor  hams  in  a  hot  kitchen,  or  in  a  room  where 
the  fun  comes,  for  it  will  certainly  make  them  rufty« 
After  being  taken  out  of  the  pickling  -tub,  it  is  fi*equent- 
ly  hung  up  to  dry  without  being  fmoaked. 

In  chufing  bacon  let  the  fat  be  clear,  almofl  of  a 
cherry  colour,  and  not  apt  to  break  or  crumble  j  and  if 
the  fleih  (ticks  well  to  the  bones,  and  bears  a  fine  clear 
C(^ur,  it  is  good;  but  if  the  contrary,  and  the  lean  has 
totnc  little  ftreaks  of  yeliow,  it  is  rufty^  or  will  loon  be 

iQ* 


J 

I 

A 


46  BAKING. 

fo.  Or  you  may  run  a  (kewer  or  fmall  knife  into  tho 
flioulder  or  back,  which,  if  the  bacon  be  good,  will 
come  out  clean,  and  have  a  good  fmell ;  but  if  fmeared^ 
the  bacon  is  certainly  rufty.  If  it  is  not  of  the  colour 
above  defcribed,  it  will  boil  grealjr. 
"  To  cure  Hams.  Mix  together  one  ounce  of  falt-petr^, 
one  ounce  of  coarfe  fugar,  and  one  pound  of  fait,  for 
each  ham ;  dry  it  well  before  a  fire,  and  rub  your  ham 
well  with  it  \  the  more  you  rub  them  the  better  they 
will  take  the  fait ;  lay  them  into  a  tub  or  large  tray,  and 
put  the  fait  over  them  that  is  left  from  rubbdngj  let 
them  lie  ten  days,  turn  them-  once  in  that  time,  rub 
on  them  half  a  pound  of  fait,  and  let  them  lie  ten  days 
more ;  take  them  out  of  the  pickle  j  forape  and  dry 
them  widi  a  cloth ;  fprinkle  on  them  a  little  more  lalt^ 
and  hang  them  up  to  dry. 

In  chufing  hamSy  put  a  fmall  knife  under  the  bonfc 
that  fticks  out  in  the  ham,  and  if  it  comes  out  clean^ 
with  a  good  flavour,  the  ham  is  fweet  j  but  if  fmeared^ 
gnd  of  an  unpleafing  fmeU,  it  is  tainted. 


w 


BAKING 

Is  the  art  of  preparing  bread,  or  reducing  meals  or 
•flours  of  any  kind  into  bread;  as  aUb  the  management 
of  the  oven  for  drelEng  this  and  feveral  other  vticles  of 
food. 

The  various  forms  of  baking  n>ay  be  reduced  intqt 
two,  the  one  for  unleavened^  the  other  for  leavened  bread. 
For  the  firft,  the  chief  is  manchet- baking,  the  procef^ 
is  as  follows :  the  flour  is  put  into  a  trough,  and  to  every 

bulhel 


BALM>    on    BAUM.  ^7 

bulhel  arc  poured  in  about  three  pints  of  warm  water^ 
with  barm  and  fait  td  feafon  it ;  this  is  kneaded  well  to- 
gcther,  and  moulded  into  manchets  6r  cakes,  pricked 
on  the  top  to  let  them  rife,  and  baked  in  the  oven  by  a 
gentle  fire; 

In  the  fecond  prep^ation,  fome  leaven  (faved  from  st 
fermer  batch)  filled  with  fait,  laid  up  to  four,  and  at 
kngdi  diilb]yed  in  water,  is  ftrained  through  a  cloth  into 
a  hole  made  in  the  middle  of  the  heap  of  flour  in  the 
trough ;  it  is  then  worked  with  fome  of  the  flour  into  a 
moderate  confifl:ence ;  covered  up  with  flour,  where  it 
lies  all  night,  and  in  the  morning  the  whole  heap  is  ftir- 
red  op,  and  mixed  with  a  litde  warm  water,  barm,  and 
iait,  by  which  it  is  feafoned,  foftened,  and  brought  to  an 
even  leaven :  it  is  then  kneaded,  moulded,  and  baked 
as  before. 

Bread  is  chiefly  divided  into  white,  wheate/i,  and 
houihold  bread,  differing  only  in  d^ees  of  purity.  Iii 
different  parts  of  England,  varibus  mixtures  of  grain  arc 
made  ufe  of;  but  the  management  or  art  of  making 
bread  well  depends  on  an  acquaintance  widi  fuch  vary- 
ing circumftances,  as  nothing  but  aftual  experience  cart 
ceach. 


•• 


BALDNESS.     See  Hair. 


BALM,    OR    BAUM. 

This  plant  is  among  the  milder  clafs  of  ftrengtheners ; 
firong  infiifions  of  this  herb,  drunk  as  tea,  and  continued 
for  fome  time,  have  done  fervicc  in  a  weak^  lax  (late  of 

I  the 


48  BALSAM. 

the  ftomach  and  bowtls  i  and  with  the  addition  of  a  lit- 
tle lemon  juice,  which  turns  it  of  a  fine  rcddifh  colour^ 
it  proves  a  ufeful  and  grateful  drink  in  dry^  parching 
fevers.  The  fimpfe  diftilled  water  is  not  in  the  Icaft 
more  efficacious  than  a  ftrong  inflifion  of  the  plant.  The 
compound  water,  or  Eau  de  Cannes,  will  be  found  under 
the  head  IVdurs^, 


m 


fi  A  L  S  A  M. 

This  term  is  applied,  in  medicine,  to  fuch  compofi^ 
tions  as  are  of  a  foftening,  reftoring,  and  healing  nature  j 
but  here  it  is  not  intended  to  confider  the  natural  bal- 
femfi,  but  certain  compofitioils  which,  from  their  balfamic 
quality,  go  by  that  name>  and  which  welUdifpofed  per- 
sons in  town  or  country  may  eafily  prepare  for  the  ufe 
of  their  families,  or  to  allift  their  afflicted  neighbours. 

I.  Anodyne  Balsam.  Take  of  white  Spanifh  foap^ 
one  ounce;  opium  unprepared,  two  drams i  re&ified 
fpirits  of  wine,  nine  ounces :  digeft  them  together  in  a 
gende  heat  for  three  days  j  then  ftrain  off  the  liquorj 
and  add  to  it  three  drams  of  camphor. 

This  balfam  is  of  fervice  in  violent  ftrains  and  rheu- 
matic complaints,  when  not  attended  with  inflammation* 
It  muft  be  rubbed  on  the  part  afflifted  with  a  warm 
hand,  or  a  linen  rag  moiftened  with  it  may  be  applied 
to  the  part,  and  renewed  every  three  or  four  hours  till 
the  pain  abates. 

By  leaving  out  the  opium,  the  fapdnaceous  balfam  is 
formed. 

II.  Lo- 


Balsam,  4^ 

a.  LocATELLi's  BAi^SAM.  Take  olive  oil,  one  pbt^ 
Strafburg  turpentine  and  yellow  wax,  each  half  a  pound; 
red  founders,  fit  drams :  nnelc  die  wax  with  feme  park  of 
die  efire  oil,  over  a  gende  fire ;  thta  add  the  remainder 
bf  die  oil  and  die  turpentine ;  afterwards  mik  in  the 
fimnders,  previoufly  reduced  to  a  powder^  and  keep  them 
fiimng  togedier  till  die  balfam  k  cold. 

This  baUam  is  reeommehded  in  forenefs  of  At  in-* 
teftines,  in  di^  d]^iit«ry  or  bloody  fltiT,  internal  brutfes> 
and  feme  complaints  of  tbe  breafl.  Outwardly,  it  il 
tifcd  fer  healing  and  cleailfing  wounds  and  ulcers«  The 
doie,  when  taken  intenially,  is  a&out  a  qoafter  of  an 
ounce; 

3.  yuBKeHARt'  BAisAJyi.  Take  gom-benjamin  In 
powder,  three  ounces;  balfam  of^Peru,  tvro  ounces i 
hepatic  aides  in  powder,  half  an  ounce  $  re6tif!ed  f|)!rit& 
tif  wine,  two  pints ;  digeft  them  in  a  gende  heat  for  three 
days,  ^d  then  ftrain  the  balfam. 

This  baUkm  is  5i|^lied  externally  to  frefli  wounds  and 
bruifes,  and  ihternally  fbr  coughs,  ailhmas,  and  moil 
complamts  of  the  bncaft.  It  is  alio  faid  to  eafe  th6 
choiic^  cleahfe  the  kidnies^  and  heai  intettial  ulcers* 
The  dofe  is  forty  or  fifty  drops,  oh  a  litde  fugftr,  of  m 
M  glafi  of  white  wine,  &ti 

This  medicine  is  precifely  the  fame  as  that  fold  undef 
the  difiwcnt  names  of  Turlington,  fVack,  and  Friar*% 
Mfkn;  F erjian' Balfam,  Jefuifs  Drops,  ^c.  applicable 
t»  die  fkttic  difi>rders,  and  of  the  fame  efEcacy. 


iAtfa 


BARSEGUE  A  PIG.    See  Pio. 


Voi.  I,  R  BAR* 


Barberries.       '  " 

Irhefc  berries  arc  gratefully  acid,  and  moderately 
•i^eftringcnt  5  have  been  given  widi  good  fucccfs  in 
'.bilious  fluxes,  and  difeafes  proceeding  from  heat,  acrU 
mony,  or  thinnefs  of  the  juices.  The  inner  bark  of  the 
branches,  which  has  a  bitter  tafte,  is  faid  to  be  fer-«- 
-viceaHe  in  the  jaundice.  The  berries  may  be  mace- 
rated for  a  day  and  a  night,  in  twelve  times  their  quani* 
jtity  of  water,  with  addition  of  a  little  fennel-feed,  to 
prevent  offence  to  the  ftomach ;  the  liquor  ftrained  off 
.and  fwcctened  with  fugar ;  and  of  this  the  patient  nmy 
drink  liberally  in  bilious  fevers,  or  locfenefs. 

Barberries  are  ufed  in  families  either  for  making 
fdrtSy  or  a  pickle  for  garnifhing. 

.  To  preferve  Barberries  for  Tarts.  Take  any 
quantity  of  barberries,  and  add  to  them  their  weight 
of  fugar ;  put  them  in  a  jar,  and  fet  them  in  a  kctdc 
pf  boiling  water,  till  the  fugar  is  melted,  and  the  bar- 
berries become  quite  foft :  next  day  put  them  into  a 
preferving  pan,  and  boil  them  a  quarter  of  an  hour^ 
fhen  put  them  in  jars,  and  keep  them  in  a  place  that 
is  dry  and  cool. 

To  pickle  Barberries.  Gather  the  berries  in  dry 
weather;  lay  them  in  bunches  into  a  glazed  earthen 
pot;  then  make  a  fufficicnt  quantity  of  water  ftrong 
|irith  fait;  boil  and  Ikim  it  well;  when  cold  pour  it  on 
the  barberries,  to  as  to  cover  them  an  inch,  and  cover 
them  up  clo'e.     Some  ufe  half  vinegar  and  half  water. 

Jelly  of  Barbekwes.     Take  a  pound  of  barberries 

picked  clean  from  the  ftalks,  and  the  fame  quantity  of 

;  I-  white 


-  -  -% 


B  A  R  L  E  Y,  ji 

i&fiitc  lugar :  boil  them,  with  a  gentle  heat,  to  a  due 
conliftcnce;  then  pals  the  jelly  through  a  flannel  cloth. 

This  isTather  a  medical,  than  a  culinary  preparation, 
and  diffolvcd  in  water  forms  an  agreeable  and  ufeful 
drink,    cfpecially  in   inflammatory  diftcmpers,    bilious* 
lluxes,   and  putrid  fcurvy. 


>« 


BARK,     Peruvian. 

.  The  tree  which  produces  this  bark  is  generally  about 
fifteen  feet  hi^,  and  fix  inches  duck;  fbmewhat  re-i' 
iembles  our  cherry-tree,  and  grows  naturally  in  forcfl^, 
particularly  the  hilly  parts  of  ^ito  in  Feru.     This  bark ' 
has  long  been  confidered  as  one  of  the  moft  ufeful  arti  - 
dcs  in  thQ  whole  catalogue  of  medicines,  particularly  in 
fevers,  agues,  and  general  wcakncfs  or  relaxation.     Its 
ijfc>  and  various  preparations,  will  be  pointed  out  in ' 
confidering  the  different  diforders  in  which  it  is  pre- 
fcribed,  as  they  arife  in  the  cpurfe  of  this  work.     Sec, 
^fb,  Deco£lion^  Infufion,   Tin£lure^  i^c^ 


BARLEY, 

Tfic  principal  ufc  of  this  grain  is  for  making  bcer^,^ 
being  the  Iweeteft  and  pleafanteft  for  that  purpofe  j  but 
it  is  firft  made  into  nialt.  We  have,  alfo,  for  kitchen  ufe, 
the  French  barky,  or  common  barley,  which  is  the  grain 
freed  from  the  fhell ;  and  pearl  barley y  prepared  in  Ger» 
many  and  Holland^  by  grinding  the  fhelled  barley  into 
litdc  round  grains,  which  appear  of  a  pearly  white-* 
pcfs. 


51  BARRENNE  S  S. 

Ba&lxv  Water  ii  ^n  article  very  ufeful^  and  vttf 
readily  nude.  Firft  waih  two  ounces  of  p.e^l-b»rley 
from  the  mealy  mam:r  that  clegs  it,,  then  p^it  it  inta 
two  quarts  of  boiling  water ;  let  it  boil  tiU  reduced  to. 
on^r,  and  ftrain  it  for  ufe. 

This  liquor  may  be  drank  freely  in  colcb^  fevers,  and 
other  diforders,  taking  care  to  keep  warm  j  and  how- 
ever trifling  it  may  appear,  is  of  greater  importance  in 
the  cure  of  acute  difeafes,  than  many  more  laborious 
preparations. 

Bakley  Soup«  To  a  gallon  of  water  put  half  z, 
pound  of  badey,  a  blade  or  two  of  macc^  a  large  crufb 
of  brea4»  wd  a  little  lemon  petl ;  let  it  boil  till  re-> 
duced  to  twQ  quarts,  then  add  half  a  pint  of  white 
wine>  and  iipecien  it  to.  your  tafte. 

To  a  weak  ftpmach,  this  will  prove  a  light,  refrcfli-* 
ing>  ai)d  nutritive  food,  and  much  fuperior,  as  a  re-> 
ftorative,  to  tin<£lures  prepared  with  ardent  fpirits  anc^ 
heating  gums. 


BARRENNESS. 

This  may  very  properly  be  reckoned  among  the 
difeafes  of  females^  as  few  married  women  who  havei 
not  children  enjoy  a  good  ftate  of  health.  It  may  pro- 
ceed from  various  caufes,  as  high  living,  grief,  relai^a- 
tion,  or  improprieties  antecedent  to  marriage,  though 
more  frequently  owing  to  obftruftion  or  irregularities  ia 
certain  periodical  eyacusjtions. 

It  is  very  certain,  that  high  living  is  one  caufe  of 
barrennefs,  for  fuch  a  cafe  is  feldoin  found  among  the. 
labouring  poor.     To  remove  this  complaint,  the  moft 

judicious 


•^•W' 


BATHS.  j^ 

|udicio\is  phyficians  haye  recommended^  firft»  fuffi-t 
pent  exercUe  in  the  ppen  air :  fecondly,  a  diet  confift^ 
ing  chiefly  of  milk  and  vegetables :  thirdly,  the  yfc  cC 
aflTiAgent  nied]cihei»  particularly  infuiioo^  of  the  bark 
ID  port  wine »  acid  the  li|;iteral  uie  of  ^old  (),athi()gj,  either 
fartiaUj  or  entiirely« 

X>T.  Cheyu  very  ftrongly  recommends  a  milk  and 
v^^etable  diet  to  both  fexes  s  and  obferves,  that  his 
friend,  Pn  T'^^r,  i?^hom  he  calls  the  milk-dodor  of 
Croydon,  had  brought  (everal  opulent  famiUes  in  hia 
oeighbourhoodi  who  had  continued  fevcral  year&  after 
mairiage  withoy^  progeny,  to  have  many  fine  children, 
by  keeping  both  parents,  for  a  confiderable  time,  to  a- 
m^  ^  v^et^e  diec  We  would,  aHb,  in  thi)  cafe, 
rrcommfiid  a  co^riepf  Vrlno's  Vecetabi^e  Sy&up,  a^ 
WBpar^  by  Swainson. 


BATHS 

Ai?e  convenient  recepuclfll  of  water,  for  perfom  ta 
walk  or  plunge  in,  either  fer  health  or  pleafure.  The  coU 
bidi  is  ccrtadnly  one  of  the  mod  univerial  and  innocent 
remedies  yet  discovered,  in  a  variety  of  difbrders,  thmigh 
(till  its  uie  is  not  to  he  adopted  without  precaution. 
BGO|>]e  are  apt  to  iqiagtste,  that  the  fimple  element 
pf  wafiKT  can  dp.  no  hurt,  and  therefixe,  that  they  may 
plwge  isfio  it.ae  ai^  time  without  danger;  and  this 
has  given  rife  to  the  faihionaBle  cuftonr  of  ufJimited 
fi^^iiatitteg.  In  this,  however,  thtsy  are  much  nraujBtaiicn; 
a9<9l^xm  arc  ^^n  oceafioned  by  going  iftto  tht  cold 
badi;  fevers  ^ei(fd  by  ftayiftg loo  long  in  it,  and  otikr 
^^Miladie^  mi^  aggrayated  by  its  improper  ufe.    UTarm 

baths^ 


|4  BAT  H  S. 

bathSy  too,  have  their  inconveniencies ;  but  being  gene- 
rally ufed  under  the  direiJtion  of  a  phyfician,  it  is  Icfi 
needful  here  to  confider  them. 

Bathing,  or  immerfion  in  cold  water,  is  certainly  a 
cuftom  of  great  antiquity,  and  ftands  recommended  for 
the  purpofe  of  cleanlinefs,  health,  and  pleafure.  It  is 
peculiarly  beneficial  to  the  inhabitants  of  populous 
cities,  and  thofe  who  lead  fedentary  lives  j  but  in  ob- 
ftinate  obftruftions  of  the  lungs,  or  any  of .  the  inteftines^ 
cold  bathing  ought  ftriftly  to  be  prohibited.  In  too 
great  a  fulnefs  of  blood,  and  great  corpulency,  it  is  alio 
highly  dangerous  to  ufc  the  cold  bath,  without  due  prc-t- 
paration. 

One  clafs  of  patients  who  ftand  peculiarly  in  need  of^ 

< 

tJie  bracing  effefts  of  cold  water,  is  the  nervous^  which- 
includes  almoft  all  the  female  inhabitants  of  great  cities ; : 
yet  even  thofe  ought  ^9.  be  cautious  in  uling  the  cold 
bath,  for  fuch  hav^  generally  weak  bowels :  for  them, 
therefore,  and  indeed  for  all  delicate  people^  the  beft  plas^ 
would  be  to  accuftom  thcmfelvcs  to  it,   by  the  moft 
pleafing  and  gentle  degrees,  beginning  with  the  tcmpc- ' 
rate  bath,  and  gradually  ufing  it  cooler,  till  cvcji  the ' 
coldeft  becomes  agreeable,  for  nature  revolts  againft  all  ? 
fudden  tranfitions ;  but  conftant  partial  bathing,  as  of 
the  face,  arms,  neck,   and  bofom,  and  of  certain  other 
parts  of  the  body,  may,  in  females  of  delicate  conftitu- 
tion,   be  pradtifed  with  fafety,  and  the  happieft  <;on<* 
fequences. 

To  young  people,  and  particularly  to  children,  cold 
bathing  is  of  the  lail   importance;   it  promotes  their'' 
growth,  increafes  their  ftrength,  and  prevents  a  variety? 
of  difeafes  incideat  tp  childhpod*    The  cold  bath,  wheft  > 

continue^ 


B^'A  ^  IT  S.  J  J 

continued  too  long,  phills  the  blood,  .cramps  the  mufcles> 
relaxes  the  nerves,  and  wholly  defeats  the  intention  of 
iiathing.  Every  beneficial  purpofe  might,  perhaps^  be 
anfwered  by  a  dip  or  two ;  or  by  fuch  a  partial  applica*- 
tioQ  of  cold  water  as  we  have  mentioned  above. 

Artificial  baths  are  fometimes  prepared  for  medical, 
«nd  other  purpofes  ;  the  following  preparations  of  that 
fart  are  of  much  utility* 

An  Aromatic  Bath.     Take  a  handfuU  of  the  fol- 
lowing herbs,  and  boil  them  for  about  five  minutes  in  a 
*fufiicient  quantity  of  foft  wafer;— -viz.  thyme,  rofemary, 
fwcct  marjoram,   lavender,  fage,    penny-royal,    balm, 
mint,  and  fennel,  and  throw  in  a  handful  of  fait  ^  ftraifi 
the  liquor  firom  the  herbs,  and  add  to  it  a  little  brandy, 
ot  camphorated  fpirit  of  wine.     This  is  an  excellent 
hath  to  ftrengthen  the  limbs,  to  remove  pains  proceed-- 
Ing  from  cold,  and  to  promote  peri'piration.     In  this 
medicinal  water  the  patient  is  to  be  bathed  in  a  bathing- 
tub.     It  produces  very  happy  efFefts  in  paralytic  difor-- 
'dcrs,  irftbecility,  and  weaknels  of  the  joints,  and  proves 
rcry  ferviceable  to  weak,  cold  conftitutions,  elpecially  in 
old  patients,  whofe  ftrength  is  impaired,  their  nerves 
weakened,  and  mufcles  relaxed. 

A  Cosmetic  Bath,  Take  two  pounds  of  barley,  or 
bean  meal,  eight  pounds  of  bran,  and  a  few  handfuls  of 
borage  leaves;  boil  thefe  ingredients  in  a  fufficient 
quantity  of  Ipring  water.  Nothing  can  exceed  this 
bath  for  cleanfing  and   foftening  the  (kin. 

An  Emollient  Bath,  for  the  Feet.  Boil  in  water 
a  pound  of  bran,  with  a  few  marfh-mallow  roots,'  and 
two  or  three  handfuls  of  mallow  leaves. 

BAT- 


[  si  1 

I 

ft  A  t  t  E  R; 

A  preparation  of  flour^  rtuSk,  watcr^  eggs^  &C;  ior 
pancakes,  and  other  ptirpofes. 

A  Batter  Pudding.  Take  a  pint  of  milk,  ibur 
tggs,  four  fpoonfuls  of  flour,  half  i,  graced  Autnneg^ 
and  a  little  fait;  mix  them  weD>  tic  the  clodi  Ycrf 
clofc,  and  boil  it  three  quarters  of  ah  hour.  Serve  it  up 
DPith  melted  butter^ 

Another.  Take  a  quart  of  rtiilk,  beat  up  the  yolk  of 
fix  eggs,  and  the  whites  of  three>  and  mix  them  witfi  * 
quarter  of  a  pint  of  milk ;  take  lix  fpoonfuls  of  flour,  A 
tea-fpoonful  of  fait,  and  one  of  beaten  ginger ;  mix 
diem  all  well  together,  boil  them  an  hour  and  a  quarter^ 
and  when  taken  up,  pour  melted  butter,  over  the  pud- 
ding* You  may  add  half  a  pound  of  prunes^  or  currants^ 
and  two  or  diree  more  eggs.  Or  fuch  a  pudding  maj^ 
be  thus  made>  without  eggs-— Take  a  quart  of  milki 
mix  fix  fpoonfuls  of  flour  with  a  litde  of  the  milk  firft, 
a  tea-fpoonful  of  fait,  two  of  beaten  ginger,  ancf  two  of 
die  tinfture  of  faflron ;  then  mix  all  together^  and 
it  an  hour. 


BEANS* 


A  very  ufeful  vegetable,  of  which  Acre  arc  fevcral 
forts,  but  gejierally  diftinguifhcd  by  the  names  of* 
JVindfoT^  and  Prench  beans. 

Ho  drefs  Frbnch  Beans.  Firft  fixing  thpm,  then  cur 
them  in  two,  and  afterwards  acrofs ;  but  if  you  would 
do  them  nice,  cut  the  bean  in  four,  and  then  acrofsj 

"Which 


BEEF.  57 

• 

which  is  eight  pieces :  lay  them  inta  water  and  fait,  and 
^en  your  pan  boils,  put  in  fome  f^t  and  the  beans : 
when  they  are  tender  they  are  enough,  they  will  be  foon 
done.  Take  care  they  do  not  lole  their  fine  green.  Then 
lay  them  in  a  plate,  and  have  butter  in  a  cup.  All  ve-* 
gctables  fhould  be  made  to  boil  as  quick  as  poflible^ 
to  preferve  their  colour. 

To  drefs  Windsor  Beans.  Boil  them  in  plenty  of 
water,  with  a  good  quantity  of  fait,  till  they  are  tender. 
Boil  and  chop  fome  parfley,  put  it  into  good  melted 
butter,  and  ferve  them  up  with  boiled  bacon,  and  the 
butter  and  parfley  in  a  boat  j — but  never  boil  your  beans 
with  the  bacon. 

To  blanch  Beans.  Boil  them  fb  that  the  ikins  may 
come  off;  then  fiy  fome  thin  flices  of  bacon,  and  fome 
parfley,  to  lay  round  the  beans  j  tois  them  up  with 
melted  butter,  and  ferve  thexn  up  hot. 

To  pickle  French  Beans.  Take  a  quantity  of  th^ 
fmallefl  of  this  fort  of  beans,  and  put  them  into  fait  and 
water  for  five  days ;  then  boil  them  up,  and  fet  them  to 
green  in  a  brafs  pan,  with  equal  quantities  of  the  beft 
white  wine  vinegar  and  hard  water :  when  they  are  quite 
green  put  them  into  a  jar,  with  as  much  white  wine 
vinegar  boiled  as  will  cover  them,  adding  cloves,  black 
pepper,  race  ginger,  and  fome  faltj  'then  ftop  them 
dole  down. 


JUai 


BEEF 


Is  the  flefli  of  black  cattle,  prepared  for  food.     In 

ihe  opinion  of  the  beft  phyficians,  beef>  though  of  a 

Yql.  L  I  more 


« 


5$  BEEF. 

more  finn  texture  than  mutton,  is  equally  nutritious ; 
and  if  in  the  fouthern  countries  it  is  not  efteemed  fo, 
that  is  merely  on  account  of  its  imperfedion  there, 

To  choofe  Beef.  Right  ox-beef  has  an  open  grain> 
and  if  young,  a  tender  and  oily  fmoothneis  $  when  old» 
it  is  tough  and  fpongy,  except  the  neck,  brifkct,  and 
fuch  parts  as  are  very  fibrous,  which  in  young  moat  will 
be  more  rough  than  in  other  parts.  A  fort  of  carnation- 
colour  betdcens  good  fpending  meat ;  the  fuet  of  a  fine 
6ear  white  i  yellow  is  not  fo  good. 

Cow-beef  is  clofer  grained  than  the  oxj  the  fat 
whiter,  but  the  lean  fomewhat  paler  5  if  young,  the  dent 
you  make  with  your  finger  will  rife  again  in  a  little 
time. 

Bull-beef  is  of  a  much  clofer  grain  than  either  of  the 
others  i  of  a  deep  duiky  red,  tough  in  pinching ;  the  fat 
fkinny,  hard,  and  has  a  rankifli  fmell :  for  newnefs  or  ftale- 
nefs,  this  fort  has  but  few  figns  1  the  more  material  is 
its  clamminefs,  and  your  fmell  will  judge  of  the  reft: 
Parts  that  have  been  bruifcd  will  look  more  dulky  or 
blackilh  than  the  reft. 

MADE    DISHES   OF    BIEF. 

As  this  is  one  of  the  moft  important  articles  in 
cookery,  it  may  not  be  improper  to  give  the  young 
cook  fome  general  hints.  It  is  an  important  point  to 
take  care  that  all  die  copper  veflcls  be  well  tinned,  and 
kept  perfeftly  clean  from  any  foulnefs  or  grittinels. 
Before  you  put  eggs  or  cream  into  your  white  fauce, 
have  all  your  ingredients  well  boiled,  and  the  whole  of 
a  proper  rfiicknels,  fiar  neither  eggs  nor  cream  will 
contribute  much  to  tkickcn  it.    After  you  have  put 

dicm 


B  .  E    E    F.  S9 

them  in,  do  not  ftir  them  with  a  Ipoon,  nor  fet  your  pan 
on  the  fire,  for  fear  it  fhould  gather  at  the  bottom,  and 
be  lumpy,  but  hold  your  pan  at  a  proper  height  from 
the  fire,    and  keep  fhaking  it  round  one  way,  which 
will  keep  the  lauce  from  curdling ;  and  be  particularly  - 
cautious  that  you  do  not  fufier  it  to  boif.     Remember 
to  take  out  your  collops,  meat,  or  whatever  you  arc 
drefling,  with  a  fifh  flice,  and  ftrain  your  fauce  upon  it, 
wkich  will  prevent  fmall  bits  of  meat  mixing  with  your 
fauce,  and  you  will  thereby  have  it  clear  and  fine.     In 
bmvfniQg  diflics,  be  particularly  cautious  that  no  fat 
floats  on  the  top  of  ,the  gravy,  which  will  be  the  cafe, 
if  you  do  not  p^)perly  fkim  it*     It  ihouki  be  of  a  fine 
brown,  without  any  one  particular  t^e,   which  muft 
depend  on  the  judicious  proportion  in  the  mixture  of 
your  various  articles  of  ingredients..    If  you  make  ulfe 
of  wine  or  anchovy,  take  ofi^its  rawnels,  by  putting  it  in 
fomc  time  before  your  difh  is  ready ;  for  nothing  in- 
jures the  reputadon/of  a  made  diih  fo  much  as  raw 
wine,  or  frefli  anchovy.     Be  fure  to  put  your  fried  force- 
meat balls  to  drain  on  a  fieye,  that  the  fat  may  run  from 
them,  and  never  let  them  boil  in  your  fauce,  as  that 
will  fofteH  them,  and  give  them  a  greafy  appearance. 
To  put  them  in  after  the  meat  is  dilhed  up,  is  indif- 
putably  the  bcft  method.     In  almoft  every  made  difh 
you  may  ufc  force-meat  balls,  morels,  truffles,  artichoke- 
bottoms,  and  pickled  muihrooms ;  and  in  feveral  made 
difiies  a  roll  of  force-meat  may  fupply  the  place  of  balls  j 
and  where  it  can  be  ufed  with  propriety,  at  is  to  be  pre- 
ferrred. 

I    2  BROWNING 


\6o  BEEF, 

BROWNING    FOR    MADE    DISHES. 

Beat  fmall  four  ounces  of  treble-refined  fugar,  put 
it  in  a  clean  iron  frying-pan,  with  one  ounce  of  butter ; 
fet  it  over  a  clear  fire,  mix  it  well  together  all  the  time: 
when  it  begins  to  get  frothy,  the  fugar  is  diflblving, 
hold  it  higher  over  the  fire ;  have  ready  a  pint  of  red 
wine ;  when  the  fugar  and  butter  is  of  a  deep  brown, 
pour  in  a  litde  of  the  wine,  and  ftil-  it  well  together ; 
then  add  more  wine,  and  keep  ftirring  it  all  the  time; 
put  in  half  an  ounce  of  Jamaica  pepper,  fix  cloves,  four 
Ihallots  peeled,  two  or  three  blades  of  mace,  three  Ipoon- 
fuls  of  mufliroom  catchup,  a  litde  fait,  the  out-rind  of 
one  lemon ;  boil  them  flowly  for  ten  minutes,  then  pour 
it  into  a  bafon.  When  cold  take  off  the  fcum  very  clean, 
and  botde  it  for  ufe. 

To  fait  Beef  for  boiling  immediately.  Pieces  of  beef 
for  this  purpofe  fhould  not  exceed  eight  pounds  :  fait 
them  very  well,  and  tie  them  clofe  up  in  a  coarfe  linen 
cloth,  which  muft  be  Very  well  covered  with  flour.  Put 
your  beef  into  boiling  water,  and  boil  it  the  ufijal  time 
according  to  its  fize.  If  to  the  common  fait  you  add  a 
fmall  quantity  of  falt-petre,  fine  powdered,  it  will  llrikc 
a  fine  rednefs  into  the  beef. 

Or,  having  boiled  a  piece  of  frcfh  beef  half  the  proper 
time,  take  it  out ;  cover  it  all  over  thick  with  fait,  and 
roll  it  in  a  linen  cloth  that  is  floured ;  the  fait  will  thus 
penetrate  very  efie61;pally,  and  when  boiled  till  enough, 
it  will  eat  as  well  as  if  faked  fix  or  feven  days. 

To  roaft  Beef.  Be  fure  to  paper  the  top,  2Lr\6.  bafte  it 
well  all  the  time  it  is  roauing,  and  throw  a  handfijl  of 
.iak  on  it.    When  you  fee  the  fnioke  draw  to  the  fire,  it 

is 


BEEF.  6i 

is  near  enough ;  then  take  off  your  paper,  bade  it  well, 
and  dredge  it  with  a  litde  flour,  to  make  a  fine  froth. 
Never  lalt  your  roaft  meat  before  you  lay  it  to  the  fire, 
/or  that  draws  out  all  the  gravy.  Take  it  up,  and  gar- 
nifli  your  dilh  with  nothing  but  horfe-radifli. 

To  roaft  a  piece  of  beef,  of  about  ten  pounds,  will 
take  an  hour  and  a  half,  at  a  good  fire.  Twenty  pounds 
weight  will  take  three  hours,  if  it  be  a  thick  piece  j 
but  if  it  be  a  thin  piece,  of  twenty  pounds  weight,  tWQ 
hours  and  a  half  will  do  it;  and  fo  on,  according  to  the 
weight  of  your  meat,  more  or  lels.  Obferve,  in  frofty 
weather  your  beef  will  talce  half  an  hour  longer. 

To  roaft  a  Bjeef  Tongue.  Boil  a  tongue  until  it  will 
peel,  in  broth  or  water,  with  fait  and  pepper,  onions,  car- 
rots, parlhips,  a  nofegay,  two  cloves  of  garlic,  laurel,  and 
thyme ;  then  lard  it  as  a  fricandeau,  and  finifh  it  in  roaft^* 
ing ;  ferve  under  it  a  relilhing  fauce,  or  plain. 

7b  -pot  Beef.  Take  a  piece  of  lean  buttock  of  bee^ 
rub  it  over  with  falt-petre;  and  let  it  lie  all  night;  then 
lalt  it  very  well  with  white  and  bay-falt ;  put  it  into  a 
pot  juft,  fit  for  it;  cover  it  with  water,  and  let  it  lie  for 
four  days  longer ;  then  take  it  out,  wipe  it  well  with  a 
cloth,  and  rub  it  with  pepper  finely  beaten ;  put  it  down 
clofe  into  a  pot,  without  any  liquor ;  cover  the  pot  with 
a  pafte,  and  bake  it  with  houlhold  bread  for  fix  hours. 

Then  take  it  out,  let  it  ftand  till  cold,  pick  it  cleart 
from  (kins  and  ftrings,  and  pound  it  very  well  in  a  ftonc 
mortar  i  feafoning  it  with  nutmegs,  cloves,  and  mace, 
pounded  very  fine,  pouring  in  melted  butter,  which 
work  up  with  it  like  pafte ;  put  it  down  clofe  and  even 
in  the  pots,  and  pour  clarified  butter  over  it. 

To  pot  a  Leg  of  Beef.    Take  off  the  (kin  as  whole 


62  BEE    F. 

as  you  can,  then  cut  ofF  all  the  flefh,  and  feafon  it  with 
pepper,  fait,  and  fpice :  having  broken  the  bone,  mix 
the  marrow  with  the  fliccs  of  beef;  being  put  into  a 
deep  earthen  pot,  lay  the  Ikin  over  the  meat,  and  the 
bones  over  the  fkin,  and  cover  the  pot  with  a  paper, 
and  tie  it  down  clofe ;  bake  it  with  houfhold  bread,  and 
let  it  (land  in  the  oven  all  night. 

When  it  is  baked,  take  out  the  bones  and  (kin,  and 
clear  it  as  well  as  you  can  from  the  liquor ;  and  having 
put  the  meat  into  a  wooden  bowl  or  mortar,  pound  it 
as  fine  as  you  can  with  a  wooden  peftle,  putting  in  every 
now  and  then  a  piece  of  butter,  and  fome  of  the  fat  of 
the  marrow,  that  will  fwim  upon  the  gravy  -,  but  let  none , 
of  the  gravy  be  put  into  it. 

Having  pounded  it  enough  while  it  is  warm,  butter 
the  bottom  and  fides  of  the  pan  in  which  you  intend 
to  keep  it,  and  prefs  the  meat  down  in  it  as  hard  as 
pofliblc,  then  cover  it  over  with  melted  butter. 

If  you  defire  your  meat  to  look  red,  rub  it  with  a 
little  fait  petre  before  you  feafon  it.  After  the  fame 
manner  you  may  pot  venifon,  mutton,  or  what  flelh 
meat  you  pleafe. 

Taking  notice,  that  you  muft  ufe  only  the  mufcular 
parts.  Let  thefe  meats  be  fet  in  a  dry  place,  and  they 
will  keep  good  feveral  months. 

To  collar  Beef.  Cut  a  piece  of  flank  beef  fquare; 
ftrijff  off  all  the  inner  flcin,  and  having  made  a  brine  of 
water  and  bay-falt,  as  ftrong  as  wiH  bear  an  egg  to  the 
breadth  of  fixpence,  lay  the  beef  into  it  for  a  week, 
then  rub  it  all  over  with  falt-petre,  and  let  it  lie  three 
days  longer ;  then  having  grofly  pounded  one  large 
nutmeg,  the  lame  weight  of  mace,  and  the  werght  of 
2  «  both 


B    E    E  .p.  63 

both  of  cloves,  with  a  quantity  of  chopped  parfley,  and 
fome  fwect  herbs  cut  fine>  ftrew  it  upon  the  beef;  then 
roll  it  up  hard,  and  tie  it  with  a  tape,  and  few  it  up 
in  a  cloth :  afterwards  lay  it  in  a  long  earthen  pan,  fill 
it  up  with  half  water  and  half  claret ;  cover  it  with  a 
coarie  cloth,  and  bake  it  for  twelve  hours  in  a  very  hot 
oven.  Take  off  the  tape,  and  roll  the  cloth  very  hard 
round  it  again;  tie  it  up,  and  hang  it  to  drain  and 
cooL  .  / 

Others  boil  the  beef  in  a  large  copper  of  water ;  and 
if  it  is  a  large  collar,  it  will  take  fix  hours  boiling,  but 
a  fixiall  one  may  be  done  in  five.  Take  it  out,  and  put 
it  in  a  preis  till  it  is  cold  j  but  if  you  have  no  pre(s  put 
it  between  two  boards,  and  a  large  weight  upon  it,  till 
cold.  Take  it  out  of  the  cloth,  cut  it  into  flices,  and 
garailh  with  raw  parfley. 

To  collar  flat  Ribs  of  Beef.  Bone  your  beef,  lay  it 
flat  on  a  table,  and  beat  it  half  an  hour  with  a  wooden 
mallet,  till  it  is  quite  foft ;  rub  it  with  fix  ounces  of - 
brown  fugar,  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  common  fait,  and 
one  ounce  of  falt-petre,  beat  fine ;  then  let  it  lie  ten 
days,  turning  it  once  every  day;  put  it  in  warm  water  for 
eight  or  ten  hours ;  then  lay  it  flat  upon  a  table,  with 
the  outward  flcin  down;  cut  it  in  rows,  and  acrofs^ 
about  the  breadth  of  your  finger,  but  be  careful  not  to 
cut  the  outfide  fkin;  then  fill  one  nick  with  chopped  parf- 
ley, the  iecond  with  fat  pork,  the  third  with  crumbs  of 
.  bread,  mace,  nutmeg,  pepper,  and  fak;  then  parfley 
again,  and  fo  on,  till  you  have  filled  all  your  nicks ;  then 
roll  it  up  tight,  and  bind  it  round  with  coarfe  broad  tape ; 
wrap  it  in  a  clothe  and  boil  it  four  or  five  hours ;  after- 
wards lumg  it  up  by  one  end  of  the  fl:ring,  to  keep  it 

round ; 


«4  BEEF. 

round ;  fave  the  liquor  it  was  boiled  in ;  the  next  day 
fkim  it,  and  add  to  it  half  as  niuch  alegar  as  you  havo 
liquor ;  a  litdc  more  mace,  long  pepper,  and  fal:  j  then 
put  in  your  beef,  and  keep  it  for  ufe.  When  you  fertd 
it  to  table,  cut  a  litde  off  at  each  end,  and  it  will  be  in 
diamonds  of  different  colours,  and  look  very  pretty  5 
fet  it  upon  a  difli  as  you,  do  brawn.  If  you  make  a 
frefh  pickle  every  week,  it  will  keep  a  long  time. 

To  Jlezv  a  Rump  of  Beef.  Take  a  fmall  rump  of 
beef,  lay  it  in  a  long  pan,  deep  enough  to  allow  the 
beef  to  be  covered  ;  then  put  in  a  quart  of  claret,  a  pint 
of  ale,  half  a  pint  of  verjuice,  or  the  juice  of  two  large 
lemons,  and  then  add  as  much  water  as  will  make  the 
liquor  cover  it ;  put  in  a  cruft  of  bread,  an  anchovy, 
Ibme  bits  of  lemon-peel,  and  a  bunch  of  iweet  herbs  ; 
two  large  turnips,  cut  into  dice,  and  two  large  onions, 
cut  into  halves.  Seafon  with  (alt,  pepper,  fome  mace> 
a  few  cloves,  and  fome  nutmegs  diced. 

Cover  diis  up  very  clofe,  and  let  it  ftew  at  leafl:  five 
hours;  then  lay  your  beef  in  a  dilh,  and  ftrain  the 
liquor  through  a  fieve,  and  fill  the  difh  with  it.  Gar- 
nifli  it  with  ojrnips  cut  into  dice,  boiled  tender,  and 
£*icd  in  hog's-lard  and  fliced  lemon. 
'  Or,  if  you  pleafe,  you  may  bake  the  rump  of  bcefi 
for  it  will  be  much  the  fame. 

After  die  fame  manner  you  may  drefs  a  leg  of  becfi 
or  an  ox-cheek ;  only  let  the  bone  of  the  leg  of  beef  be 
broken,  and  take  out  all  the  bones  of  the  ox-cheek. 

To  hajh  Beef.  Cut  fome  flices  of  tender  beef,  and 
put  them  into  a  ftew -pan,  well  floured,  with  a  flicc  of 
butter,  over  a  quick  fire,  for  three  minutes,  and  then 
put  to  theni  fome  water,  a  bunch  of  fweet  herbs,  or 

fome 


BEEF.  65 

Sosxht  marjoram  alone ;  an  onion,  Ibme  lemon-peel,  with 
fbme  pCK^r,  fait,  and  feme  nutmeg  grated;  cover  thcfc 
clofe,  and  kt  them  ftew  till  they  are  tender ;  then  put 
iino  it  a  glafc  of  claret,  or  beer  thalt  is  not  bitter,  and 
ftrain  your  fauce :  fervc  it  hot,  and  garnilh  with  red 
beet-roots  and  lemon  fliced.    This  i$  a  very  good  dilb. 
Beef  Alamode.    Take  a  flefcy  piece  of  beef,  with- 
out fat,  and  beat  it  well  with  a  rolling-pin ;  then  lard 
with  pietty  brge  pieces  of  fet  bacon,  and,  if  you  pleafc, 
put  it  over  the  fire  a  little  to  fiy,  dil  the  outfide  is  brown  i 
put  k  to  ftew  in  a  skep  ftew-pan,   or  ^xed  earthen 
v^0a,  with  falt>  pepper,  bay-leave3,  or  Jamaica  pepper  1 
^mc  kmon-pcel,  half  .a  dozen  large  muflirooms,  two 
cloves  of  garlick,  or  four  or  five  cloves  of  Ihalot,  a  pint 
of  water,  and  half  a  pint  of  wine ;  cover  it  clofe,  and  let 
it  ftew  gently  fill  it  is  tender :  when  it  is  enough,  fry 
ibme  flour  in  hog's  lard^  9nd  fidd  ip  it;  fom^  lemon^ 
jyice,  or  a  Utde  verjuice^ 

This  is  very  good  hot,  but  it  is  for  the  moft  part 
eaten  ccdd^  cut  into  dices  about  half  an  inch  thick. 

Jbtotbex  ^^.  Take  j(bme  pf  the  round  of  beef,  the 
vdny  piece,  ot  fmalt  round  (what  is  generally  called  the 
xpoufe  buttock)  cut  it  five  oc  fix  inches  thick;  cut  feme 
pieces  of  &t  bacon  into  long  bits ;  take  an  equal  quan- 
tity of  beaten  mace,  pepper,  and  nutmeg,  with  doublo 
the  qt^antity  of  fait,  if  wanted  5  mix  rhem  together,  dip 
the  bacon  into  fomc  vinegar  (garlick  vinegar,  if  agree- 
able) then,  into  the  fpiccj  laird  the  beef  with  a  larding- 
pin,  very  tluck  and  even ;  put  the  meat  into  a  pot  juft 
large  enough  to  hold  it,  with  a  gill  of  vinegar,  two  large 
oniony,  a  bunch  of  fweet  herbs,  half  a  pint  of  red  wine^ 
and  fomc  kfiiOQ-ped^    Covrr  it  down  very  clofe,  and, 


66  BEEP. 

put  a  wet  cloth  round  the  edge  of  the  pot,  to  prevents 
the  fteam  evaporating ;  when  it  is  half  done,  turn  it,  and 
.  cover  it  up  again  :  do  it  over  a  ftove  or  very  flow  fire. 
It  will  uke  five  hours  and  an  half  before  It  is  done« 
TrufRes  and  morels  may  be  added  to  it. 

Another  way.  Take  a  fmall  buttock,  or  leg  of  mut«- 
ton-piece  of  beef^  or  a  clod,  or  a  piece  of  buttock 
of  beef  i  alfo  two  dozen  of  cloves,  as  much  mace^ 
and  half  an  ounce  of  all-ipice  beat  fine;  chop  a 
large  handful  of  parfley,  and  all  forts  of  fweet  herbs^ 
fine  j  cut  ibme  fat  bacon,  as  long  as  the  beef  is  thick^ 
and  about  a  quarter  of  an  inch  fquare,  and  put  it  into  the 
Ipicc,  &c.  (and  into  the  beef  the  fame)  put  it  into  a  pot* 
and  cover  it  with  water  5  chop  four  large  onions  very 
fine,  and  fix  cloves  of  garlick,  fix  bay-leaves,  and  a 
fiandfiil  of  chan^ign6ns,  orfrefli  mufhroom^;  put  all  into 
the  pot,  with  a  pint  of  porter  or  ale,  and  half  a  pint  of 
red  wine;  put  in  fome pepper  and  lalt,  fome  kyan  pep- 
per, a  ipoonful  of  vinegar;  ftrew  three  handfuls  of 
bread  rafpings,  fiftcd  fine,  over  all ;  cover  the  pot  clofe, 
and  ftew  it  for  fix  hours ;  or  according  to  the  fize  of  the 
piece  r  if  a  large  piece,  eight  hours;  then  take  the  l?eef  out, 
and  put  it  in  a  deep  difh,  a^d  keep  it  hot  ov(r  fome  boil- 
ing water ;  ftrain  the  gravy  through  a  fieve,  and  pick  ovNt 
the  champignons  or  mufhrooms ;  Ikim  all  the  fat;  off 
clean,  put  the  beef  into  your  pot  again,  give  it  a  boil  up:  if 
not  feafoned  enough,  feafon  it  to  your  liking ;  then  put 
the  gravy  over  your  beef,  and  ffnd  it  to  table  hot ;  or 
you  may  cut  it  in  flices  if  you  like  it  beft,  or  fet  it  to 
get  cpld,  and  cut  it  in  flices  with  the  gravy  over  it ;  for 
when  the  gravy  is  cold,  it  wll  be  in  a  flrohg  jelly. 

Beef  a-la-mode  another  wc^.     Having  boned  a  rump 
of  beef,  lard  the  top  with  bacon,  and  make  the  follow- 

•    .      ipg 


BEEF;  67 

jng   ferce-meat — ^Taka   four  ounces  of  marrow^  the 

crumbs  of  a  penny-loa^  a  few  fweet  herbs  chopped 

finally  two  heads  of  garlicky  and  feafbn  them  to  your 

«afte,  with  falt>  pepper,  and  nutmeg ;  then  beat  up  the 

yolks  of  four  eggs.    Mix  all  together,  and  fluff  it  into 

the  beef  at  the  parts  from  whence  the  bone  was  extraA- 

cd,  and  alfo  in  feveral  of  the  lean  parts.    Skewer  it 

iouod,  and  &ften  it  properly  with  a  ftring.     Put  it  into 

the  pot,  thrbw  in  a  pint  of  red  wine,  and  tie  the  pot  down 

with  a  (bong  paper.    Put  it  into  the  oven  for  three  or 

four  hours,  and  when  it  comes  out,  if  it  is  to  be  eaten 

hoty  fkim  the  fat  from  the  gravy,  and  add  a  Spoonful  of 

pickled  mufhroonis,   and    half  an   ounce  of  nmorels. 

Thicken  it  with  flour  and  butter,  difh  it  up,  and  pour  on 

your  gravy.     Garnifh  it  with  force-meat  balls. 

Another  wey.  Cut  fomeofthe  round  into  pieces,  lard  ^ 
and  fry  them,  put  to  them  fome  beef  broth,  a  bunch  of 
fweet  herbs,  an  onion,  a  few  pepper-corns  and  cloves ; 
ftew  this  gendy  till  tender,  covered  clofe ;  then  fkim  off 
die  faty  and  add  a  few  muihrooms.  Water  may  be  uled 
inftqul  of  brodi. 

3o  fricaffie^oli  r^  Bebf.  When  you  have  cut  your 
roaft  beef  into  very  thin  fltces,  take  a  handful  of  parf^ 
ley,  ihrcd  it  very  fmall,  cut  an  onion  into  four  quarten^ 
put  them  all  together  into  a  flew-pan,  with  a  piece  'm 
butter,  and  a  good  quantity  of  fbong  broth ;  feafon  witib 
lalt  and  pepper,  and  let  it  flew  gendy  about  a  quarter 
of  an  hour  j  then  take  the  yolks  of  four  eggs,  beat  them 
in  fome  claret  and  a  fpoonful  of  vinegar,  and  put  it  to 
your  meat,  ftirring  it  till  it  becomes  thicki  rub  your  dTfh 
with  a  fhalot  before  you  ferve  it  up. 

Cold  roajl  Besf,.  family  fajhioti.     Slice  three  or  four 
onionsj  and  fry  them  in  butter ;  when  done}  add  a  litde 

K*2  broth^ 


6Z  B    E    t    'Ps 

broth,  three  llxalots  chopped,  pepper  and  fait ;  then  p^ 
fliccs  of  cold  beef  to  it  j  boil  for  a  moment ;  when 
rtzdy,  add  a  liafon,  made  of  three  yolks  of  eggs  and  a 
litde  vinegar.  Cold  beef  is  alio  very  good  with  cold 
faucc,  made  of  chopped  parfley,  fhalocs,  vinegar^  oil, 
muftard,  minced  anchovy,  &c. 

Bee?  a-la-DauIbe.  Take  a  round,  a  rtimp,  or  a 
veiny  piece  of  beef;  lard  it  with  bacon,  half  roaft  it,  or 
fry  it  brown  i  put  it  into  a  ftew-pan,  or  a  pot  that  will 
juft  hold  it,  fome  gravy,  an  onion  (hick  with  cfoves, 
half  a  pint  of  white  wine,  a  gill  of  vinegar^  a  bunch  of 
fweet  herbs,,  pepper,  cloves,  mace,  and  fait;  cover  it 
down  very  clofe,  let  it  but  iuft  fimmer  till  it  is  tender  ; 
take  two  ox-palates;  two  fweet-breads,  truffles,  mords^ 
and  artichoke  bottoms,  ftew  them  all  together  in  Ibme 
gravy,  and  pour  over  the  beef.  Have  ready  fome  force- 
meat balls  fried;  make  fome  long,  others  round;  dip  fome 
lippets  into  butter,  fry  and  cut  them  diree-corner  ways, 
and  flick  them  into  the  meat ;  lay  the  balls  round  the 
difh. 

Beef-Tremblant — Trembling  ^  Beef .  A  rump  of 
beef  is  the  beft  for  this,  but  it  muft  be  neatly  cut  and 
trimmed ;  cut  the  edge  of  the  edge-bone  off  quite  clofc 
to  the  meat,  that  it  may  lay  flat  in  your  difh;  and  if  it  is 
largfe,  cut  it  at  the  chump,  and  fo  as  to  make  it  fquarei 
hang  It  up  for  three  or  four  days,  or  more,  without  fait; 
prepare  a  marinade,  and  leave  it  all  night  in  fbak  ;  fillet 
it  two  or  three  times  acrofs, .  and  put  it  into  a  pot^  the 
fat  uppermofl;  put  in  as  much  water  as  will  a  little  more 
than  cover  it ;  take  care  to  fkim  it  well,  and  feafon  as 
you  would  for  a  good  broth,  adding  about  a  pint  of 
white  wine ;  let  it  fimmer  for  as  long  a  time  as  it  will 
hang  together.     There  are  many  fauces  for  this  piece 

of 


BEEF.  €^ 

ttf  meat,  pardcularly  carrots,  harbs,  &c.  minced.    Tour 

carrots  ihould  be  cut  an  inch  long,  and  boiled  a  littk 

in  water,  and  afterwards  ftewed  in  ieme  cuUis  propcM*^ 

donate  to  your  meat    When  they  are  done  tender,  diih 

in  a  g^  of  white  wine,  a  litt.e  minced   ihalot  and 

parfley,  and  the  juice  of  a  lemon  j  take  your  beef  out 

upcMi  a  cloth,  clean  it  neatly  from  its  fat  and  liquor; 

place  it  hot  and  whole  in  your  dilh,  and  pour  your  fauce 

over  it.    Strew  fome  minced-  parfley  over  it,  it  looks 

prettier. 

Afiotber  way.    Take  the  fat  end  of  a  brifket  of  beef, 
and  tie  it  up  dole  with  packthread  \  put  it  in  a  pot  of 
water,  and  boil  it  fix  hours  very  gendy ;  Icafon  the  wa- 
ter with  a  little  (alt,  a  handful  of  all-fpice,  two  onions, 
two  turnips,  and  a  carrot ;  in  the  mean  while  put  a  bit 
of  butter  in  a  ftew-pan,  and  melt  it  \  dien  put  in  two 
^)0onfu}s  of  flour,  and  flir  it  till  it  is  fmooth ;  put  in  a 
quart  of  gravy,  a  ipoonful  of  catchup,  the  fame  of 
browning,  a  gill  of  white  wine,  carrots  and  turnips,  and 
cot  die  fame  as  for  an  harrico  of  mutton  j  ftcw  them 
gently  till  the  roots  arc  tender,  fcafon  with  pepper  and 
iak,  (kirn  all  the  fat  clean  off,  put  the  beef  in  the  difh, 
and  pour  the  fauce  all  over :  garnilh  with  pickle  of  any 
forl^  or  make  a  (auce  thus ;   chop  a  handful  of  parfley, 
one  onion,  four  pickled  cucumbers,  one  walnut,  and  a 
gill  of  capers  j  put  them  in  a  pint  of  good  gravy,  and 
ducken  with  a  little  butter  rolled  in  flour,  and  feafon  it 
with  pepper  and  fait  5  boil  it  up  for  ten  minutes,  and 
then  put  it  over  the  beef  j  or  you  may  put  the  beef 
in  a  difli,  and  put  greens  and  carrots  round  it.  ' 

Beif  a-la-Royal— jB^^f-iJoy^/.  Bone  a  brifkct 
of  beef,  and  make  holes  in  it  with  a  knife,  about 
ao  inch    from    one  another ;    fill  one    hole  with  fat 

bacon. 


I 


f«  BEE    F^ 

bacon>  ^  fecOnd.  with  ohdppcd  parflcyj  and  at  tkifd 
with  chopped  oyftcrs,  feafoncd .  with  nutmeg,  pep- 
per, and  fait,  till  you  have  done  the  briiket  over  j 
then  pour  a  pint  of  red  wine,  boiling  hot,  upon  the  beef  9 
dredge  it  with  flour,  fend  it  to  the  oven,  and  bake  it 
three  hours,  or  better*  When  it  comes  out  of  the  oven 
take  off  the  fat,  and  ftrain  the  gravy  oyer  your  beef; 
garnifh  with  pickles,  and  ferve  it  up. 

Another  way.  Bone  a  fir  loin  or  large  rUmp  of  bcefi 
beat  it  very  well  j  then  lard  'it  with  bacon,  feafon  it  all 
over  with  fait,  pepper,  mace,  cloves^  and  nutmeg,  all  beat 
fine,  fomd  lemon-peel  cut  fmall,  and  fome  fweet  herbs.  In 
the  mean  time  make  a  ilrong  broth  of  the  bones ;  take 
a  piece  of  butter  with  a  litdc  flour,  brown  it,  and  put  it 
in  the  beef ;  keep  it  turning  often  till  it  is  brown  1  then 
ftrain  the  broth,  put  all  together  in  a  pot,  put  in  a  bay- 
leaf,  a  few  truffles,  and  fome  ox-palates,  cut  fmall ;  cover 
it  clofe,  and  let  it  ftew  till  it  is  tender  j  take  out  the 
beefi  fkim  oflT  all  the  fat,  pour  in  a  pint  of  claret,  fome 
fried  oyfters,  an  anchovy,  and  fome  gerkins  fhred  fmall  j 
boil  all  together,  put  in  the  beef  to  warm,  thicken  your 
fauce  with  a  piece  of  butter  rolled  in  flour,  or  mufliroom 
powder.  Lay  your  meat  in  a  difh,  pour  your  fauce 
over  it,  and  fend  it  to  table.  This  may  be  eat  cither 
hot  or  cold. 

Beef  Olives.  Cut  fteaks  from  the  rump,  or  infidc 
of  the  lirloin,  half  an  inch  thick,  about  fix  inches  long, 
and  four  or  five  broad;  beat  them  a  little,  and  rub 
them  over  with  the  yolk  of  an  egg  i  ftrew  on  bread 
crumbs,  parfley  chopped,  lemon-peel  Ihred,  pepper  and 
fait,  chopped  fuet  or  marrow,  and  grated  nutmeg  j  roll 
therA  up  tight,  Ikewer  them,  and  fiy  or  brown  them  in 
a  Dutch  oven  -,  ftew  them  in  fome  beef  broth  or  gravy, 

until 


BEEP.  71 

until  tender;  thicken  the  gravy  with  a  Httle  flour;  then 
add  a  litde  catchup,  and  a  litde  lemon-juice.  To  en^ 
rich  them,  add  pickled  mufhrooms^  hard  ^Iks  ^  e^gs, 
and  force-meat  balls. 

To  Ragoo  a  Piece  op  Beef.    Take  a  large  piece 

of  the  flank,  which  has  fkt  at  the  top,  cut  fquare,  or  any 

piece  diat  is  all  meat,  and  has  fat  at  the  top,  but  no  bones; 

the  rump  does  well :  cut  all  nicely  off  the  bcMie,  which 

makes  fine  Ibup ;  then  take  a  large  ftew-pan,  and  widi 

a  good  piece  of  butter  fiy  it  a  litde  brown  all  over, 

flouring  your  meat  well  before  you  put  it  into  the  pani 

dien  pour  in  as  much  gravy  as  will  cover  it,  made  thus  1 

take  about  a  pound  of  coarfe  beef,  a  litde  piece  of  veal 

cut  fmall,  a  bundle  of  iweet  herbs,  an  onion,  fbme  whole 

black  pepper^  and  white  pepper,  two  or  three  large 

blades  of  mace,  four  or  five  cloves,  a  piece  of  carrot,  a 

little  piece  of  bacon  fteeped  in  vinegar  a  little  while,  aqd 

^  cmft  of  bread  toafted  brown ;  put  to  this  a  quart  of 

white  wine,  and  let  it  boil  till  half  is  melted.    While  this 

is  making,  pour  a  quart  of  bpiling  water  into  the  ftcw- 

pan;  cove-  it  clofe,  and  let  it  be  ftewcd  foftly :  when  the 

gravy  is  done  ftrain  it,  pour  it  into  the  pan  where  the  beef 

is;  take  an  ounce  of  oxiffles  and  morels  cut  fmall>  fome 

fiefli  or  dried  muihrooms  cut  fmall,  two  fpoonftils  of 

catchup,  and  cover  it  clofe.    Let  all  this  flew,  till  die 

iauce  is  rich  and  thick ;  then  have  ready  fome  artichoke 

bottoms,  cut  into  four^  and  a  few  pickled  muflu-ooms  ; 

^ve  diem  a  boil  or  two,  and  when  your  meat  is  tender, 

and  your  iauce  quite  rich,  lay  the  meat  into  a  diih,  and 

your  fauce  over  it.    You  may  add  a  (weet-bread  cut  in 

fix  pieces,  a  palate  Hewed  tender,  cut  into  litde  pieces, 

fome  cock's  combs,  and  a  few  force-meat  balls.    Thefe 

are  a  great  addition,  but  it  will  be  good  without. 

X  Note. 


A 


^%  BEEF. 

Note.  For  variety,  when  the  beef  h  ready,  and  the 
gr^vy  put  to  it,  add  a  large  head  of  celery,  cut  fin^l 
and  waflied  clean  j  two  fpoonflils  of  catchup,  and  a  glaia 
of  red  wine.  Omit  all  the  other  irigiredients.  When 
the  meat  is  tender,  and  the  fauce  rich  and  good,  fcrvc 

« 

k  up.  It  is  alfo  very  good  this  way  i'  take  fix  large  cu- 
cumbers^  fcoop  out  the  feeds,  pare  them,  cut  thenv  into 
flicefi,  and  do  them  juft  as  you  do  the  celery, 

Rumf  au  Ragaut,  Cut  the  meat  from  the  bone,  flour 
tnd  fry  it,  pour  over  it  a  little  boiling  water,  and  about 
a  pint  of  fmall  beer;  add  a  carrot  or  two^  an  onion  duck 
with  cloves,  foine  whole  pepper,  fah,  a  piece  of  lemon* 
peel,  and  a  bunch  of,  fweef  herbs :  let  thefe  ftew  ati 
hour,  then  add  fome  good  gravy.  When  the  meat  i$ 
tender  take  it  out,  ftrain  the  fauce,  thicken  it  with  a  little 
flour ;  add  a  little  celery  ready  boiled,  and  a  little  catch*^ 
tip  J  pbt  in  the  meat,  and  juft  fimmer  it  up ;  or  the  celery 
may  be  omitted,  and  the  ragoo  enriched  by  adding 
mufhrooms  &efh  or  pickled,  artichoke  bottq!m3  boiled 
itnd  quartered,  and  hard  yolks  of  eggsi 

A  piece  of  flank,  or  any  piece  that  cm  ^  cut  fi^ec 
l^om  bone  -v^iU  do,  iilftead  of  the  rump., 

Rstmp  of  BzEF  fmeaked.  Bone  a  rump  of  beef  as  well 
Its  poffible  without'  ipoiling  the  ihape;  fait  it  with  a 
pound  of  fait,  and  two  ounces  of  falt-petre;  put  it  into 
a  faltingrpan  lengthways,  with  all  forts  of  fweet  herbs^ 
^  parfley,  flialots,  thyme,  laurel,  bafll,  winter  ikvory, 
half  a  handful  cxf  juniper-berries,  a  little  corialndery  fix 
cloves,  and  two  cloves  of  garlick ;  leave  it  about  a  week 
or  ten  days  in  ialt,  then  hang  it  in  the  chimney :  when 
dried,  keep  it  in  a  dry  place.  When  you  wapt  to  \jfc 
it,  boil  it  in  water  without  fait,  with  a  few  onions,  ctovcs, 
^  faggot  of  {wcet  hq-bs,  and  a  little  nutmeg  i  let  it  cool 


BEEF.  7j 

in  the  liquor,  and  fervc  it  cold  upon  a  napkin.  Gar- 
nifh  with  parflcy.  If  you  think  it  will  be  too  fait,  foak 
ic  fbme  time  before  boiling. 

5^  force  the  Injide  of  a  Sirloin  of  Beef.     Spit  your 

lirloin,  then  cut  off  from  the  inlide,  all  the  (kin  and  fat 

together,  and  then  take  off  all  the  fleih  to  the  bones ; 

chop  die  meat  very  fine  with  a  litde  beaten  mace,  two 

or  three  ihalots,  one  anchovy,  half  a  pint  of  red  wine, 

a  little  pepper  and  fait,  and  put  it  on  the  bonts  again ; 

lay  your  fat  aod'fkin  on  again,  and  fkewer  it  clofe,.  and 

paper  it  well.    When  roafted,  take  off  the  fat,  and  difli 

up  the  firloin;  pour  over  it  a  fauce  made  of  a  litde  red 

wine,  a  fhalot,    one  anchovy,  two  or  three  flices  of 

hoHe-radiih,  and  ferve  it  up. 

To  bake  a  Leg  o/Beef.  Cut  the  meat  off  a  leg  of 
bee^  and  break  the  bones ;  put  it  into  an  earthen  pan, 
with  two  onions  and  a  bundle  of  fweet  herbs ;  fealbn  it 
with  a  Ipoonflil  of  whole  pepper,  and  a  few  cloves  and 
blades  of  mace.  Cover  it  with  water,  and  having  tie4 
the  pot  clofe  down  with  brown  paper,  put  it  into  th? 
oven  to  bake.  As  foon  a3  it  is  enough,  take  it  out,  and 
ftnun  it  through  a  fieve,  and  pick  out  all  the  fat  and 
finews,  putting  them  into  a  feuqepan  with  a  litde  gravy, 
and  a  piece  of  butter  rolled  in  flour.  Set  the  faucepan 
on  the  fire,  ihake  it  often,  and  when  it  is  thoroughly 
hot,  pour  it  into  the  diih,  and  fend  it  to  table. 

Ox-Cheek  may  be  done  in  the  fame  manner;  and  if 
you  ihould  think  it  too  ftrong,  you  pnay  weaken  it  by 
pouring  in  a  fuificient  quantity  of  hot  water;  but  cold 
water  will  fpoil  it. 

BouiLLiE  Beef.    Take  the  thick  end  of  a  brifket  of 

beef,  put  it  into  a  kettle  of  water  where  it  may  be  quite 

Vol,  L  L  covered 


74  BEEF. 

covered  over ;  let  it  boil  faft  for  two  hours,  then  keep 
ftcwing  it  by  the  fire  for  fix  hours  more,  and  as  the  wa- 
ter waftes,  fill  up  the  kettle  j  pour  in  with  the  beef  fome 
turnips  cut  into  little  balls,  carrots,  and  fome  celery  cut 
in  pieces ;  an  hour  before  it  is  done,  take  out  as  much 
broth  as  will  fill  your  foup  dilh,  and  boil  in  it  for  that 
hour  turnips  and  carrots,  cut  out  in  balls,  or  in  little 
fquare  pieces,  with  fome  celery,  fait,  and  pepper  to  your 
tafte ;  ferve  it  up  in  two  diflies,  the  beef  by  itfelf,  and 
(he  foup  by  itfelf;  you  may  put  pieces  of  fried  bread, 
if  you  like  it,  in  your  foup  i  boil  in  a  few  knots  of 
greens,  and  if  you  think  your  foup  will  not  be  rich 
enough,  you  may  add  a  pound  or  two  of  fried  mutton 
chops  to  your  broth,  when  you  take  it  from  the  beef, 
and  let  it  flew  for  that  hour  in  the  broth  j  but  be  fure  to 
take  out  the  mutton  when  you  fend  it  to  the  table.  The 
foup  muft  be  very  clear. 

Beef  in  Epigram.  Rpaft  a  firloin  of  beef,  take  it  off 
the  ipit,  then  raifc  the  fkin  carefully  oflf",  and  cut  the 
lean  parts  of  the  beef  out ;  but  obferve  not  to  cut  near 
the  ends  or  fides.  Hafh  the  meat  in  the  following  man- 
ner :  cut  into  pieces  about  as  big  as  a  crown  piece,  put 
half  a  pint  of  gravy  into  a  tofs-pan,  an  onion  chopped 
fine,  two  fpoonfuls  of  catchup,  fome  pepper  and  fait, 
fix  fmall  pickled  cucumbers  cut  in  thin  flices,  and  the 
gravy  that  comes  from  the  beef;  a  little  butter  rolled  in 
flour.  Put  the  meat  in,  and  then  put  the  fkin  over,  and 
fend  it  to  table.  Garnifh  with  horfer^adifh.  You  may 
do  the  infide  inflead  of  the  outfide  if  you  pleafe. 

To  drefs  a  Fillet  of  Beef.  It  is  the  infide  of  the 
firloin.  You  mufl  carefully  cut  it  all  out  from  the  bone, 
grate  fome  nutmeg  over  it,  a  few  crumbs  of  bread,  a 

•     little 


BEEF.  75 

little  pepper  and  fait,  a  little  lemon-peel,  a  little  thymo, 
ibme  parfley  ihred  fmall,  and  roll  it  up  tight ;  tie  it  with 
a  piece  of  packthread,  roaft  it,  put  a  quart  of  milk  and 
a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  butter  into  the  dripping-pan,  and 
baftc  it.  When  it  is  enough  take  it  up,  unde  it,  leave 
a  little  (kewer  in  it  to  hold  it  together;  have  alitde  g6od 
gravy  in  the  difh,  and  fome  fweet  fauce  in  a  cup.  You 
may  bafte  it  with  red  wine  and  butter,  or  it  will  do  very 
ivell  with  butter  only. 

Another  way.  Lard  a  fillet  with  large  pieces  of  bacon ; 
let  It  catch  a  litde  in  a  ftew-pan  with  bytter,  a  botde  of 
white  wine,  and  broth,  fait,  and  pepper;  ftewonaflow 
fire.  When  three  parts  done,  fkim  off  the  fat,  add  to  it 
a  piece  of  butter  rolled  in  flour,  chopped  parfley,  fha- 
lots,  mufhrooms,  and  a  few  tarragon  leaves;  put  the 
fillet  in  it  to  finiih,  and  reduce  the  fauce  to  a  proper 
confiftence. 

Another  way.  Soak  fix  anchovies  in  water  about  two 
hours ;  fplit  them,  and  lard  the  fillet  with  them,  inter- 
mixed  with  bacon ;  flew  it  on  a  flow  fire,  with  a  little 
broth  and  white  wine,  a  clove  of  garlick,  •  two  cloves,  a 
faggot  of  parfley,  green  onions,  and  fweet  herbs.  When 
done,  fift  the  fauce  ;  add  a  litde  butter  rolled  in  flour, 
and  a  few  whole  capers;  make  a  liaibn  of  eggs  and 
cream ;  ferve  it  up  on  the  fillet. 

^RiB  (/Beef  Glajfi^  with  Spinach.  Provide  one  of 
the  prime  ribs,  trim  it  neatly,  and  lay  it  in  a  marinade 
for  an  hour  or  two ;  take  a  ftew-pan  exaftly  its  bignefs, 
put  a  flice  or  two  of  bacon  at  the  bottom,  lay  in  your 
beef,  and  cover  it  with  the  fame.  To  feafon,  put  in  an 
onion  or  two,  fome  bits  of  carrot,  a  little  fweet  bafil, 
%yme,  and  parfley,  a  little  pepper,  fak,  and  a  blade  or 
,i  La  two 


76  BEEF. 

two  of  mace ;  let  it  ftcw  gently  till  it  is  very  tender,  take 
it  out  upon  a  plate,  drain  your  braze,  clean  it  well  from 
the  fat,  put  it  into  a  clean  ftcw-pan,  and  boil  it  with  a 
ladle  of  gravy  very  fail,  and  you  will  find  it  come  to  a 
fort  of  gluey  conliftence ;  then  put  your  beef  in  and  keep 
it  hot  till  your  dinner  time,  and  ferve  it  up  with  Ipi- 

nach. 

At  another  time  ydu  may  ferve  it  with  favoys  or  red 
cabbage,  ftripped  fine  and  ftewed,  after  being  blanched* 
only  adding  a  bit  of  bacon,  with  a  few  cloves  ftuck  in 
it  in  the  ftewing,  but  not  to  fend  to  table. 

Fillet  of  the  firbin  is  done  pretty  much  in  the.  fame 
way,  marinaded  and  roafted,  with  bacon  over  it,  and 
the  fame  fort  of  fauces. 

Hodge  Podge  of  Beef  with  Savoys.  Provide  apiece 
of  the  middlemoft  part  of  brilket  beef,  of  about  fix 
pounds,  cut  it  in  (quare  pieces  fo  as  to  make  ten  or 
twelve  of  it  j  do  not  put  it  into  too  large  a  pot,  but  fuch 
a  one  as  will  be  full  with  a  gallon  of  water  in  it ;  tdke 
care  to  fkim  it  welli  and  feafon  it  well  with  onions, 
carrots,  turnips,  leeks^  and  celery,  add  a  litde  bundle  of 
parfley,  and  fome  pepper;  when  your  meat  is  boiled 
very  tender,  drain  your  broth  from  it,  and  put  it  into  a 
fbup  pot  or  ftew-pan  j  take  another  with  one  ounce  or 
litde  more  of  butter,  melt  it,  and  ptit  in  a  large  fpoonful 
of  flour,  ftir  it  over  the,  fire  till  it  becomes  brown,  take 
the  fat  ofi^your  broth  and  put  to  it,  boil  it  a  few  minutes, 
^nd  ftrain  to  your  beef;  your  favoys  fliould  be  well 
blanched,  and  tied  up  feparate  j  put  them  into  your 
meat,  and  ftew  very  gcndy  till  your  dinner  is  called ; 
take  it  ofi^  and  clear  all  from  the  fat ;  place  your  rrfcat 
in  neat  order  in  your  dilh,  lay  your  favoys  between, 

pour 


BEEF,  77 

pour  your  fbup  or  fauce  over  it,  and  fcrve  it  up  with  a 

Ikde  parflcy  fprinkled  gently  over  it.     This  dilh  is  frc- 

quendy  fent  to  table  widi  turnips  or  carrots^  inftead  of 

^▼oys,  cut  in  neat  bits  and  boiled^  before  you  put  them 

to  your  lbup«  / 

Hodge  Podge  of  veal  or  mutton  is  done  after  the^amc 
manner,  with  this  difference  only:  inftead  of  mallupg 
your  foup  brown>  ftir  your  flour  no  longer  than  while^i.^ 
rctainfi  it  whiteneis,  and  pour  your  gravy  in,  and  ftraui 
to  your  meat. 

Scarkt  Beef.     Take  a  piece  of  briiket  beef,  rub  it 
well  with  one  ounce  of  falt-petre,  half  an  ounce  of  bay 
lalt>  and  a  fmall  handful  of  common  fait ;  let  it  lie  for 
a  week,  turning  it  every  day,  and  rubbing  it  with  brine ; 
when  you  drefs  it,  wafh  it,  put  it  into  a  ftew-pot  with 
two  quarts  of  Water,  fome  fweet  herbs,  two  onions,  two 
carrots,  and  ibme  whole  pepper ;  let  it  ftew  till  tender, 
take  it  up,  and  put  it  in  a  foup-diih,  flrain  the  l^uor 
into  a  ftew-pan,  fet  it  on  a  ftove  to  boil,  and  fkim  off  the 
fat  i  lay  round  your  beef  fome  favoy  greens  boiled  ten- 
der, pour  your  liquor  over  it,  and  ferve  it  up  hot«    If 
there  be  any  left  when  it  comes  from  the  table,  fet  it  by 
to  cool,  and  ferve  it  up  in  flices  (the  fame  as  ham)  gar- 
niihed  with  parfley,  for  cither  dinner  or  fuppen 

Jnotber  way.  Bone  a  rump  of  beef,  foak  it  three  or 
four  times  in  a  marinade  made  of  oil,  feven  or  eight 
whole  cloves  of  garlick,  half  a  pound  of  fait,  half  an  ounce 
of  mixed  fpices,  thyme,  laurel,  and  bafil ;  boil  the  beef 
in  die  marinade,  with  a  pint  of  white  wine,  and  as  much 
broth  i  when  done,  wipe  the  fat  clean  off,  fift  part  of 
the  broth,  and  add  a  little  cuUis  i   reduce  it  to  a  pretty 

thick 


78  BEEF. 

thick  faucc.   The  brcaft,  or  any  part  of  the  brilket  majr 
be  done  the  fame. 

A  Fricando  o/Beef;  Cut  a  few  dices  of  beef  fire 
or  fix  inches  long,  and  half  an  inch  diick  5  lard  it  with, 
bac^n,  dredge  it  well  with  flour^  and  fet  it  before  a  briflc 
fire^to  brown ;  then  put  it  in  a  tofling  pan,  with  a  quart 
#f*jgravy,  a  few  morels  and  trufHes,  half  a  lemon,  and 
>KcW  them  half  a  hour;  then  add  one  Ipoonful  of  catch- 
up, the  fame  of  browning,  and  a  litde  Ryan ;  thicken 
your  fauce,  and  pour  it  over  your  fricando.  Lay  round 
them  force-meat  balls,  and  the  yolks  of  hard  eggs>i 

To  Fry  Beef  Steaks.  Take  rump  fteaks,  or  any 
other  tender  part  of  the  beef,  put  Ibme  fait  and  pepper 
upon  them,  put  them  in  a  pan  with  a  piece  of  butter  and 
an  onion,  over  a  flow  fire,  clofe  covered,  and  as  the 
gravy  draws,  pour  it  from  the  beef,  (lill  adding  more 
butter  at  times,  till  your  beef  is  enough ;  then  pour 
in  your  gravy,  with  a  glafs  of  ftrong  beer  or  claret ;  let 
it  juft  boil  up,  and  ferve  it  hot,  with  juice  of  lemon  or 
verjuice. 

Another  way.  Take  fome  fteaks  out  of  the  middle  of 
the  rump,  fry  them  in  butter,  and  when  they  are  donc^ 
put  a  litde  fmall  beer  (if  not  bitter),  into  the  pan  the 
gravy  that  runs  from  the  becfi  a  little  nutmeg,  a  (halotj 
fome  walnut  catchup,  and  a  piece  of  butter  rolled  in 
flour,  fliake  it  round  the  pan  till  it  boils,  and  pour  it 
over  the  fteaks.  Some  ftewcd  oyfters  may  be  added,  or 
pickled  muftirooms. 

Tb  Broil  Beef  Steaks.  Cut  your  fteaks  off  a  rump 
of  beef  about  half  an  inch  thick,  let  your  fire  be  clear, 
rub  your  gridiron  well  with  beef  fuet ;  when  it  is  hot  lay 
them  on,  let  them  broil  till  they  begin  to  brownj  turn 

them 


I  BEEF-  79 

tbem^  and  when  the  other  fide  is  brown,  ky  them  on  a 
hot  difli  with  a  flicc  of  butter  between  each  fteak  j  fprin- 
klc  a  little  fait  and  pepper  over  them,  let  them  ftand 
two  or  three  minutes,  then  (lice  a  ihalot,  as  thin  as  pof- 
fible,  into  a  fpoonful  of  water,  lay  on  your  fteaks  again, 
keep  turning  them  till  they  arc  enough,  put  them  on 
your  dilh,  pour  the  Ihalot  and  water  amongft  them,  and 
fend  them  to  table. 

Another  way.     Firft  hav^  a  very  clear  brifk  fire :  let 

your  gridiron  be  very  clean  j  put  it  on  the  fire,  and  take 

a  chafing-difix  with  a  few  hot  coals  out  of  the  fire  -,  put 

the  dilh  on  it  which  is  to  lay  your  fteaks  on,»  then  take 

fine  rump  fteaks,  about  half  an  inch  thick ;  put  a  litde 

pepper  and  fait  on  them,  lay  them  on  the  gridiron,  and 

(if  you  like  it)  take  a  ftialot  or  two,  or  a  fine  onion, 

and  cut  it  finall ;  put  it  into  your  difli :  keep  turning 

your  fteaks  quick  till  they  are  done,  for  that  keeps  the 

gravy  in  them.  When  the  fteaks  are  enough,  take  them 

carefully  oflT  into  your  difli,  that  none  of  the  gravy  be 

loft ;  then  have  ready  a  hot  dilh  and  cover,  and  carry 

them  hot  to  the  table  with  the  cover  on.   You  may  fend 

Ihalots  in  a  plate,  chopped  fine. 

If  you  love  pickles  or  horfe-radifli  with  fteaks,  never 
gamifh  your  difti,  becaufe  the  garnifliing  will  be  dry, 
and  the  fteaks  will  be  cold,  but  lay  thofe  things  on  little 
plates,  and  carry  to  table.  The  great  nicety  is  to  have: 
them  hot  and  fiill  of  gravy. 

Beef  Steaks  "with  Oyjlers.  Take  fbme  tender  beef 
fteaks,  pepper  them  to  your  mind,  but  no  fait,  for  that 
will  make  them  hard;  turn  them  often  till  they  are 
enough,  which  you  will  know  by  their  feeling  firm,  then 

Uk  them  to  your  mind. 

z  For 


8o  BEEF, 

For  the  fauce,  take  fomc  oyfters  with  their  liquor^  and 
wafli  them  in  fait  and  water ;  let  the  oyfter  liquor  (land 
to  fettle,  and  then  pour  off  the  clear  j  ftew  them  gcntl jr 
in  this,  with  fome  nutmeg  or  mace,  fome  whole  pepper 
a  clove  or  two,  and  take  care  you  do  not  ftew  them  too 
much,  for  that  will  make  them  hard ;  when  they  are  al-  " 
moft  enough,  add  fome  white  wine  and  a  piece  of  but* 
tcr  rolled  in  flour  to  thicken  it.  ^ 

Some  chufe  to  put  an  anchovy  or  mufhroom  catchup 
into  this  fauce. 

Beef  Steaks  A-la-mode.  Take  three  flices  of  a  round 
of  beef,  hack  them  with  the  back  of  a  knife,  feafon  them 
with  pepper,  fait,  and  one  onion  Ihred  fine  j  lay  them 
into  a  ftew-pan  with  fome  flices  of  bacon  under  and  over 
them,  and  a  piece  of  butter ;  fet  it  on  a  flow  fire  to  ftew 
for  a  quarter  of  an  hour  j  add  to  diem  one  pint  of  brown 
gravy,  a  few  pickled  muflirooms,  cucumber,  a  few  mo- 
rels, and  two  fpoenfuls  of  red  wine :  let  them  ftew  till 
your  fteaks  are  tender ;  take  out  your  bacon,  flcim  ofF 
the  fat,  thicken  them  with  butter  and  flour ;  lay  your 
fteaks  neady  in  a  difli  with  fome  fippets  of  bread  round 
them ;  pour  your  fauce  over  them,  and  fcrve  them  up 
hot  for  a  firft  courfc. 

Beef  Steaks  witbjlewed  Cucumbers.  Pare  four  large 
cucumbers,  take  out  the  feed,  cut  them  in  flices  one 
inch  long  and  half  an  inch  broad ;  put  them  into  a  ftew- 
pan,  with  four  onions  cut  in  dice  and  a  piece  of  butter; 
fry  them  till  brown ;  duft  in  a  little  flour,  add  a  pint  of 
gravy,  let  them  ftew  till  tender,  flcim  off  the  fat  i  then 
cot  fix  fteaks  off  a  rump  of  beef^  beat  them  a  litde, 
feafon  them  with  pepper  and  fait,  fry  them  quick  in 

butter  I 


BEEF.  8i 

butter;  'whendonCy  put  them  in  a  difh,  pour  your  fauce 
over  them^  and  fcrvc  them  up  for  a  fide  diih. 

If  you  put  them  in  among  the  cucumbers  to  ftew,  it 
makes  them  hard. 

Beef  Steaks  roUedj  with  Morels  fluffed.  Cut  fix  beef 
ftcaks  off  the  rump,  pretty  large,  flat  them  with  a  clca- 
Tcr,  and  make  a  force-meat  for  them  as  follows : 

Take  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  pith  marrow  out  of 
the  b^k  bone  of  veal  or  mutton,  fiired  it  fine,  add  to 
it  ibme  fweet  herbs,  half  an  anchovy,  a  fmail  onion 
Jhred  fine,  and  Ibme  bread  crumbs  i  mix  it  all  well  to-* 
gcthcr  with  the  yolks  of  two  eggs  j  feafon  your  fl:caks 
with  pepper,  fait,  and  fweet  herbs  pretty  high,  fpread 
on  your  force-meat  thin,  roU  them  up  tight,  wrap  them 
in  thin  lards  of  bacon^  tie  them  round  with  a  pack- 
thread, cut  them  even  at  each  end,  and  put  them  in  a 
ftew-pan,  with  a  thin  Qice  of  bacon  under  them ;  put 
to.  them  fome  good  gravy,  add  four  morels,  fcalded  and 
waflied  clean  in  hot  water,  and  ftufied  with  force-mea^ 
the  fanie  as  you  did  your  fteaks  with  j  ftew  them  till 
Aey  are  tender,  take  them  out,  take  off  the  packthread 
^nd  bacon,  and  lay  them  in  a  difii,  with  the  morels  be^ 
tween  them ;  fldm  the  fat  off  the  gravy,  add  to  it  a 
piece  of  butter  and  flour,  two  ipoonfijls  of  catchup,  a 
fltdc  kyan,  and  two  pickled  gerkins  cut  fmall  >  let  it  juft 
boil,  pour  it  over  your  fteaks,  and  fervc  them  up  hoc 
for  a  fide  or  corner  difli. 

Beef  Steaks  roUed.  Take  fome  beef  fteaks,  and 
beat  them  with  a  cleaver  to  make  them  tender  j  make 
fome  force-meat  with  a  pound  of  veal  beat  fine  in  a 
mortar,  the  flcfh  of  a  fowl,  hatfa  pound  ofcokl  ham  or 

Vou  I.  M.  gammoa 


81  BEE.  F. 

gammon  of  bacon>  fat  and  lean,  the  kidney  fat  of  a  loia 
of  vealj  and  a  fweetbroad,  all  cut  very  fmaU ;  fome  truf-< 

fles  and  morels  ftewed  and  then  cut  fmall^  two  fhalotSj 

I, 

fomeparfley,  alitdcthyme,  fome  ^emon-ped,  the  yolks 
of  four  eggs,  a  nutmeg  grated,  and  half  a  pint  of  cream: 
mix  thefe  all  together,  and  ftir  them  over  a  flow  fire  for 
ten  minutes  $  put  them  upon  the  fteaks,  and  roll  theia 
up,  then  fkewer  them  tight ;  put  Aem  into  the  fiying- 
pan  and  fry  them  of  a  nice  brown  s  then  take  them  from 
the  fat  and  put  them  into  a  ftew-pan,  with  a  pint  of 
good  drawn  gravy,  a  Ijpoonful  of  red  wine,  two  of  catch- 
up, a  few  pickled  mufhrooms,  and  let  them  flew  for  a 
quarter  of  an  hour ;  take  up  the  ileaks,  cut  them  in 
two,  lay  the  cut  fide  uppermoft :  garnifli  with  lemon« 
Before  you  put  the  force-meat  into  the  beef^  you  are  to 
ftir  it  all  together  over  a  flow  fire  for  eight  or  ten  mi^ 
nutes. 

Ta  fifw  Beef  Steaks.  Lard  the  fteaks  here  and  there 
with  large  pieces^of  bacon;  put  them  in  a  ftew-pan  with 
chopped  parfley,  fliallot,  thyme,  fait,  pepper,  and  a  liN 
de  wine  \  ftew  them  flowly  till  done,  and  ferve  them  up 
hot. 

Another  way.  Lard  thick  fteaks>  half  bacon  and  half 
anchovies;  put  them  in  a  ftew-pan  upon  flices  of  bacon^ 
feafbn  them  with  fine  fpices  (but  no  ialt,  as  the  anchovies 
will  anfwer)  a  faggot  of  parfley  and  fweet  herbs,  a  clove 
of  garlick,  two  flialots,  and  a  ^11  of  white  wine  j  ftew 
them  very  flowly  for  about  four  hourSj^  then  fift  the  fauce 
through  a  lawn  fieve ;  add  a  litde  butter  rolled  in  flour, 
according  to  the  quantity  of  fauce  you  want,  with  cuUis 
«nd  brothji  and  kmon-juice  if  you  like  it^ 

2  Another 


BEET.  ^5 

Another  way.    Take  nimp-ftcaks,  pepper   and  lalt 
them,  lay  them  in  a  ftew-pan,;  pour  in  half  a  pint  of  wa- 
ter, a  blade  or  two  of  mace,  two  or  three  cloves,  a  litde 
bundle  of  iwect  herbs,  an  anchovy,  a  piece  of  butter  rol* 
led  in  flour,  a  glafs  of  white  wine,  and  an  onion ;  cover 
them  dole,  and  let  them  ftew  foftly  till  they  are  tender ; 
then  take  out  the  fteaks,  flour  them,  fiy  them  in  frefli 
butter,  and  pour  away  all  the  fat ;  ftrain  the  fauce  they 
^crc  ftewcd  in,  and  pour  into  the  pan ;  tofs  it  all  up  to- 
gether till  the  fauce  is  quite  hot  and  thick.    If  you  add 
a  quarter  of  a  pint  of'-oyfters,  it  will  make  it  the  better. 
Hay  the  fl:eaks  into  the  dilh,  and  pour  the  faupe  over 
dkenu    Gamifh  with  any  pickle  you  like. 

Anothirway*  Cut-^lvee  poiHids  of  fteaks  from  the 
leg  of  mutton-piece  of  beef,  be^at  them,  put  them  into  a 
fiew-pan  with  a  pint  of  water,  the  feme  of  fmall  beer,  if 
not  bitter ;  if  it  is,  put  lefs  beer  and  more  water,  fix 
doves,  a  large  onion,  a  bunch  of  fweet  herbs,  a  carrot, 
a  tomip,  pepper  and  fait  ^  ftew  this  very  gendy  (cloie 
covered)  four  or  five  hours,  but  take  care  the  meat  does 
HOC  £0  to  rags  by  doing  too  faft ;  take  up  the  mea^ 
ftrain  the  feuce  over  it,  have  turnips  cut  into  balls,  and 
canots  cut  into  any  ihape  and  boiled,  which  lay  on  the 
meat    It  is  a  very  good  and  cheap  difh. 


mmm>^ 


BEET. 

« 

Diflerem  ibrts  of  this  plant  are  cultivated  in  our  gar* 
dens,  but  efpecially  the  white  and  red;  the  former  for  its 
leaves,  th^  latter  for  its  root,  which,  when  boiled,  cok)^ 
^  cut  into  thin  flices>  makes  a  grateful  mixture  with 

M  2  winter 


%4  BIRCH. 

winter  falad :  the  reddeft  and  largeft  roots  are  the  tefl-* 
dereil  and  moft  efteemed.    The  juice  both  of  the  rooo^ 
and  leaves  of  the  red  and  white  beetSj  Ihufied  -  up  the 
nofe^  occafion  a  copious  difcharge  without  provoking 
fheczing. 

To  pickle.  Beet  Roots.  Boil  them  tender,  peel  therff, 
and  if  agreeable,  cut  them  into  fhapes ;  pour  over  them 
a  hot  pickle  of  white  wine  vinegar,  a  little  pepper,  gin- 
ger, and  horfe-radifh  fliced.  They  are  a  pretty  garnifh 
for  made-difhe^. 


mm 


BILE  and  BILIOUS.    See  Colic^  Fever,  &c. 


i»* 


BIRCH. 

This  is  a  fmall  tree  common  in  moift  woods ;  on 
deeply  wounding  or  boring  the  trunk  of  which  in  the 
^ring,  there  ifllies  by  degrees  a  very  large  quantity  of 
afweetifh  watery  juice;  that  obtained  from  the  upper 
part,  or  from  the  branches,  is  much  the  beft :  after  the 
leaves  have  begun  to  appear,  the  juice  lofes  its  fweetnels 
;uid  'becomes  difagreeable.  .  This  juice  has  been  drank 
fuccefsfully  as  an  antifcorbutic  and  deobftruent ;  it  lenfi- 
bly  promotes  urine,  and  if  freely  taken  loofens  the  belly. 
In  keeping  it  turns  four,  unlefs  defended  from  the  air  by 
covering  its  furface  with  a  litde  oil.  It  may  be  convert- 
ed into  a  vinous  liquor  by  fermentation. 

About  the  beginning  of  March,  when  the  buds  begin 
to  iwell  and  before  they  open  the  leaves,  cut  a  flip  in  the 
tree  widi  a  chizzel  and  mallet,  ahiK^  as  deep  as  the  pith ; 

cut 


B  TR  C  H.  «5 

eyt  it  oblique,  and  not  loi^  wzys,  putting  in  a  finall 
ftone  or  chip  to  keep  the  wound  open  a  little.  Let  the 
wound  be  made  in  that  part  that  looks  to  the  fouth-weft> 
or  between  diefe  quarters ;  becauie  litde  or  no  fap  arifea 
from  the  northern  fide.  Into  this  flit  put  a  leaf  of  the 
tree  fitted  to  the  dimenfions  of  the  flit,  from  which  the 
lap  vnjl  diftil  in  the  manner  of  filtration  ^  take  away  the 
leai^  and  the  bark  will  clofe  agsdn,  a  litde  eardi  being 
preiled  into  the  flit.  Where  there  is  good  ftore  of  birch 
trees  many  gallons  of  juice  in  a  day  may  be  gathered 
from  the  boughs,  by  cutting  them  in  fuch  a  manner  that 
their  ends  may  be  fitted  to  go  into  bottles. 

To  preferve  this  juice  in  the  bcfl  condition  for  brew- 
ing, till  you  have  got  a  fufficient  quantity  of  it,  fet  what 
runs  firft  in  the  fun,  till  the  reft  is  procured,  to  prevent  its 
growing  ibur.  It  ought  immediately  to  be  flopped  up 
in  the  botdes  in  which  it  is  diftilled,  and  the  corks  well 
waxed  and  eatpofed  in  the  fun  till  you  have  a  fufficient 
quantity.  Then  let  fome  coarfe  bread  toafted  dry,,  but 
not  burnt,  be  put  into  it  to  let  it  a  workmg,  and  when  it 
b^;ins  to  ferment,  |ake  it  out  and  botde  it  immediately 
with  a  few  cloves  or  all*fpice  in  it,  and  it  will  keep  a 
whole  year.  In  extracts  the  tafte  and  dnfhire  of  the 
Ipicie  in  a  very  litde  time. 

Birch  Wine.  To  every  gallon  of  the  juice  of  birch 
put  a  quart  of  honey,  ftir  them  well  together,  and  boil 
them  with  a  few  cloves  and  a  litde  lemon-peel  for  al- 
mofl  an  hour,  taking  care  to  flcim  it  weU  all  the  while  it 
is  boiling ;  when  it  is  boiled  and  has  flood  till  it  is  grown 
cold,  put  in  three  or  four  fpoonfuls  of  new  ale  yeaft  to 
make  it  work,  which  it  will  do  hke  new  ale,  and  whei> 

the 


U  &  I  R  C  H. 

die  feaft  begins  to  fettle,  bottle  it  up.  It  will  in  a  com- 
petent tindc  become  l  moft  bride,  pleafant,  and  fpiritu- 
ous  drink. 

This  wine  may  be  rnadc  as  well  with  A  pound  of  fiigar 
to  a  galkm  of  juice>  or  it  may  be  fwcetencd  with  raifins^ 
and  made  a  raifin  wine. 

The  author  of  the  Vinetum  Britannicum  direfts  the 
boiKng  of  it  but  a  quarter  or  half  an,  hour,  and  dien  to 
fct  it  by  to  cool ;  to  add  a  very  litde  yeaft  to  purge  it, 
and  theh  to  put  it  up  m  a  barrd  with  about  a  quarter 
of  an  ounce  of  cinnamon,  and  the  like  quantity  of  mace, 
to  ten  gallons ;  to  ftop  it  tip  cloie  for  a  noonth  before  it 
is  botded.  The  botdes  muft  be  fet  in  a  cool  {dace,  to 
pTclerve  them  fiwn  flying. 

This  wine  is  rather  for  the  prefent  drinking  than  long 
keeping,  unlefs  die  place  where  it  is  fet  be  extraordinary 
cold. 

Another  thh^.  For  -cVery  gallon  of  frcfli  birch  water 
allow  two  pounds  lof  good  dean  fugar,  making  the  water 
boil  before  you  put  the  iugar  in,  and  keep  it  boiling 
over  a  clear  fire  for  ail  hour  and  a  half^  then  take  it  ofi^ 
and  when  it  is  almoll  cool,  put  fome  yeaft  to  it,  and  let 
k  work  (in^  vcflel  with  an  open  head)  for  three  or  four 
days  i  then  to  each  gallon  of  liquor  add  a  pound  of 
Malaga  raifms,  picked  clean  irom  the  Ibtlks,  and  fhred ; 
then  put  it  up  into  a  well-feafoned  cafk,  ftep  it  clof^^ 
and  kt  it  (land  a  mftnth  before  it  is  botded* 

Metier  •wttf.  To  a  hogfhead  of  water,  take  four  hun* 
dred  of  Malaga  faifms,  pick  them  clean,  and  cut  them 
finaUi  then  boil  the  birch  liquor  for  one  hour  at  Ica^, 
ftiim  it  well,  and  let  it  ftand  till  it  is  no  warnttr  than  milk* 
Then  put  in  the  raifins,  and  let  it  fland  dofe  covered, 

ftirring 


BISCUITS.  87 

fiirring  it  well  four  or  five  times  every  day.  Boil  all  the 
ftalks  in  a  gallon  or  two  of  birch-water,  which,  when 
added  to  the  other  when  almofl:  cold,  will  give  it  an 
agreeable  roughnefs.  Let  it  ftaiod  ten  days,  then  put  it 
in  a  cool  cellar,  and  when  it  has  done  hiding  in  the  vef* 
kiy  ftop  it  up  dofe.  It  muft  Hand  nine  months  at  leaft^ 
before  it  is  botded. 


BISCUITS. 

A  kind  of  bread  made  of  fine  flour,  eggs,  and  fiigar^ 
with  the  addition  of  various  ingredients. 

In  baking  bifcuits,  great  care  muft  be  taken  that  your 
OYen  be  not  too  hot;  eipecially  for  thofe  bifcuits  in 
which  there  are  any  almonds ;  becaufe  in  luch  a  cafe  the 
bifcuits  would  raife  quickly,  and  after  they  have  raifed 
they  fall  and  flatten  themfelves,  when  on  the  contrary  if 
your  oven  is  of  a  moderate  and  mild  heat,  the  biicuit 
dries  as  it  raifes ;  therefore  keep  it  fb  in  every  ftage  of  its 
rifing,  and  you  have  time  to  give  to  it  what  degree  of 
colour  you  pleafe,  either  light  or  deep,  as  you  fancy.  It 
is  not  the  fame  for  the  bifcuits  where  there  is  any  flour ; 
thcfe  require  an  oven  a  litde  hotter  than  the  others, 
though  you  muft  be  able  to  keep  your  hand  in  the  ovenf 
for  du-ee  or  four  minutes  j  the  rcafon  why  this  fort  re- 
quires a  greater  heat  is,  that  they  have  a  litde  more 
body  and  fh-ength :  it  is  nccefTary  the  heat  fhouM  prefs 
them  a  litde,  to  force  them  to  rife.  So  we  fee  that  all 
die  experienced  and  profefTed  bifcuit  makers  always  put 
firft  in  die  oven  thofe  where  there  is  flour,  and  a  little 
while  after  thofe  where  there  is  none,  and  which  are  com- 

pofed  with  almonds  otAj. 

Biscuit 


18  BISCUITS. 

Biscuit  Cakes^  or  Common  Biscuits.  Whifk  the 
yolks  often  eggs  to  a  light  froth ;  put  in  the  yolks,  and 
beat  them  a  little,  then  add  a  pound  of  double-reBned 
(ugar,  beaten  and  fifted ;  beat  it  well  together  for  twenty, 
minutes,  then  add  three  quarters  of  a  pound  of  flour, 
the  rind  of  one  lemon,  rafped  and  chopped,  and  a  little 
rofe- water  j  beat  together  for  a  quarter  of  an  hour,  form 
it  into  bifcuits,  and  bake  them  in  a  quick  oven. 

Spunge  Biscuits.  Beat  the  yolks  of  eleven  eggs 
TOth  a  pound  and  a  half  of  fine  fugar,  for  three  quarters 
pf  an  hour  -,  then  whifk  up  the  whites  to  a  fine  light 
froth ;  put  them  together,  and  whifk  them  well  with 
thirteen  ounces  of  flour,  and  the  rind  of  a  lemon  grated  s 
then  put  them  into  long  bifcuit-pans,  fift  fome  fugar  on 
the  top  of  them,  wd  bake  them  in  a  middling  hot  oven 
for  fifteen  minutes. 

Drop  Biscuits,  Beat  the  yolks  often  eggs,  and  the 
whites  of  fix,  with  one  fpoonful  of  rofe^water,  half  an 
hour;  then  put  in  ten  ounces  of  loaf  fugar,  beat  and  fif-i 
;ed ;  whifk  them  well  for  half  an  hour,  then  add  one 
ounce  of  carraway  feeds  crufhed  a  litde,  and  fix  ounces 
of  fine  flour ;  whifk  in  your  flour  gently,  drop  the  bif* 
cuits  on  wafer  papers^  and  ba|ce  them  in  a  moderate 
oven. 

Naples  Biscuit,     Put  three  quarters  of  a  pound  of 
Ytry  fine  flour  to  2i,  pound  of  fine  beaten  fugar;  fift  it  three 
times,  then  add  fix  eggs  well  beat,  and  a  fpoonful  of 
rofe-water :  when  the  oven  is  almoft  hot,  make  them  j 
but  take  care  that  they  are  not  made  up  too  wet. 

Italian  Biscuit.  Beat  the  whites  of  nine  eggs  to  a 
froth,  then  put  in  the  yolks  and  beat  them ;  add  a  pound 
}nd  4  half  of  fipe  fugar,  beaten  and  f^tedj^  and  a  pound 

and 


B  I  S  C  U I  T  S,  «5 

cmd  a  Kdf  of  fine  flour^  putting  a  little  in  at  a  time,  tiH 
ic  is  all  in  3  beat  it  well  for  an  hour,  drop  it  on  wafer  pa- 
per>  with  a  few  carraway  comfits  on  the  top ;  Ihake  a  lit« 
tie  fugar  over  it,  and  bake  it  in  a  quick  oven ;  for  if  it 
is  flow,  they  will  run.      ' 

French  Biscuits.  Having  a  pair  of  cl6an  fcales 
ready,  in  one  fcale  put  three  new-laid  eggs,  in  tke  other 
fcalc  as  much  dried  flour„  an  equal  weight  with  the  cgg^ ; 
nnix  the  flour,  with  as  much  fine  powdered  fugar; 
firft  beat  the  whites  of  the  eggs  up  well  with  the  whifk, 
dll  they  are  of  a  fine  froth ;  then  whip  in  half  an  ounce 
of  candied  lemon-peel,  cut  very  thin  and  fine^  and  beat 
well  i  then,  by  degrees,  whip  in  the  flour  and  fugar ; 
then  flip  in  the  yolks^  and  with  a  ipoon  temper  it  well 
together ;  then  fliape  your  bifcuits  on  fine  white  paper 
^th  your  fpoon,  and  throw  powdered  fugar  over  them. 
Bake  them  in  a  ^moderate  oven,  not  too  hot,  giving  them 
a  fine  colour  on  the  top.  When  they  are  baked,  with  a 
fine  knife  cut  them  off  fix>m  the  paper,  and  lay  them  in 
boxes  for  ufe. 

Palais  Royal  Biscuits.  .^  Break  eight  eggs,  put 
die  yolks  in  one  pan,  and  the  whites  in  another  j  then 
wdg^  half  a  pound  of  fugar,  which  put  in  the  pan  where 
the  yolks  are ;  bdat  them  and  the  fugar  together  with  a 
fpoon,  till  it  makes  a  \diite  pafte ;  weigh  fix  ounces  of 
flour,  put  it  on  a  clean  flieet  of  paper;  when  your  yolks 
of  eggs  are  well  beaten,  take  a  Imall  whiflc,  beat  well 
your  whites  of  eggs,  till  they  come  up  like  a  fyllabub, 
and  are  fo  hard  that  your  whiflc  can  (land  upright  in 
them ;  then  take  your  yolks  which  are  like  a  pafte,  and 
mix  them  with  the  whites,  turning  them  gently  with  your 
whiflc.  When  they  are  well  mixed>  take  a  fieve,  put 
.  Vol.  I.  N  your 


9«  BISCUITS. 

your  flour  in  iU  fift  it  gently  over  your  mixture,  and 
continue  ftirring  till  you  fee  dl  is  well  mixecl,  and  there 
is  no  lump  of  flour  in  your  pafte ;  when  your  compofi- 
tion  is  finiihed^  have  litde  paper  moulds  made  long  and 
fquarc^  fill  them  with  that  pafle,  and  fift  on  the  top  of 
each  of  them  a  litde  of  fine  pounded  loaf  fugar,  which  is 
called  the  icing  of  them  j  then  put  them  in  the  oven. 

Savoy  Biscuits-  Break  fifteen  eggs,  and  feparate 
the  yolks  from .  the  whites,  which  put  m  two  different 
pans ;  weigh  one  pound  and  a  quarter  of  fine  fifted  loaf 
fugfu*,  put  among  your  yolks,  and  work  well  till  it  comes 
of  a  fine  white.  Then  weigh  three  quarters  of  a  pound 
of  flour,  which  put  on  a  fheet  of  paper ;  then  take  your 
whites  of  eggs,  and  whip  them  as  before.  Next  pre- 
pare your  pafle  juft  the  fame  as  in  the  preceding  article 
for  Palais  Royal  Bifcuits  j  for  the  diflference  lies  only  in 
the  weight  of  the  eggs  and  that  of  the  flour,  which  you 
are  carefully  to  obferve*  When  your  pafte  is  quite 
ready,  ycu  take  half  a  fheet  of  paper,  which  you  fill 
with  pafte ;  drels  your  bifcuits  of  what  length  you  pleafe 
on  your  paper,  and  proceed  for  the  reft  as  before. 

Qoeen  Biscuits.  Take  half  a  pound  of  butter,  half 
a  pound  of  fugar,  half  a  pound  of  flour,  quarter  of  a 
pound  of  currants,  a  glafs  of  French  brandy,  eight  eggs,' 
and  a  litde  cinnamon  in  powder.  When  all  is  properly 
prepared,  take  your  butter,  put  it  in  a  pan,  and  work 
it  with  a  fpoon  till  it  is  quite  white  i  then  add  half  a 
pound  of  fugar  to  it,  and  continue  working  it  the  fame  i 
when  you  have  worked  them  bodi  well,  add  your  eight 
yolks  of  eggs  and  cinnamon,  continue  ft  ill  the  working 
of  the  whole  as  before  direAcd,  and  put  them  in  your 
pafte,  continuing  working  the  whole  togedier,  but  gent- 

I  hi 


» 


BISCUITS,  9t 

jy ;  when  your  pafte  is  thua  well  diluted  whh  die  Whites 
of  eggs  in  frothy  you  take  a  fieve  with  half  a  pouiid  4f 
flour^  ahd  fift  in  ibfdy  over  your  compofition^  mixing  it 
weli^  by  ftirring  it  geildy  with  the'whiflc;  when  diis  is 
done>  take  your  currants,  which  you  fliould  have  walhed 
and  dried  by  the  fire ;  you  will  put  them  in  your  paft«  to- 
giether  with  a  glals  of  brandy,  and  mix  the  whole 
by  fldrring  it  gendy :  then  rub  your  tin  moulds  well  on  th^ 
infide  with  butter ;  fet  them  upon  a  double  Iheet  of  pa* 
per,  which  muft  be  laid  upon  a  flxeet  of  copper  or  tin  i  fill 
with  your  pafte,  and  proceed  as  ufual. 

Punch  Biscuits,  Take  twelve  eggs,  their  weight 
in  lligar,  and  half  their  weight  in  flour ;  prepare  that 
pafte  as  mentioned  in  the  article  of  Palais  Rtyal  Bifcuits  | 
you  may  only  add  to  it  the  ralp^g  of  lemon-peel,  which 
if  you  do,  you  muft  add  when  you  are  working  your  iu- 
gar  abng  with  the  yolks  of  eggs.  When  your  pafte  is 
ready,  you  put  it  in  your  tin  fquare  moulds^  and  proiqqed 
as  before  direded. 

Slowed  Biscuits.  Put  the  white  of  an  egg  in  a 
mortar  with  the  raiping  of  a  lemon-peel,  and  Ibme  pow- 
dered fogar  lifted  very  fine  j  next  mix  your  fugar  aiid 
white  of  ^g  well  together  with  the  pounder,  adding,, 
fiom  time  to  time,  a  litde  Aour^^  till  your  pafte  is  come 
to  a  certain  thickneis ;  then  fet  it  upon  a  tin  plate,  wd 
finifh  by  filling  it  widi  fugar,  till  it  fticks  no  longer  ta 
your  fingers  i  then  take  a  roUing-pin,^  and  Ipread  your 
pafte  on  the  tin  plate,  till  you  bring  it  to  half  a  fioger 
thicknefs^  Have  tin  moulds  of  all  forts  of  figuresj:  cut 
your  pafte,  and  put  it  upon  paper  which  lies  on  a  Ihect 
of  ^^  and  place  th^m  in  an  oven^  which  ^ould  not  bet 

N?  toa 


94  BISCUITS. 

too  hot.  The  fmaller  your  tin  moulds^  the  prettier  your 
bifcuits  will  look. 

Chocolate  Biscuits.    Take  half  a  pound  of  al« 
monds^  pour  boiling  water  over  them,  to  rub  their  Ikin 
oflF;  then  fet  them  to  dry  in  a  ftove  j  when  you  take 
^m  out  of  the  ftove,  and  they  are  quite  dry,  pound 
them  in  a  mortar  widi  half  the  white  of  an  egg;  when 
they  are  well  pounded,  put  them  on  a  plate,  and  take 
two  ounces  of  chocolate,  which  you  melt  in  a  fmall  pan 
over  a  very  gende  fire ;  when  it  is  melted,  put  in  your 
pafte  of  almonds,  mixing  the  whole  well  with  a  fpoon  ; 
when  all  is  well  mixed,  add  the  white  of  an  egg  and  fu- 
gar,  till  you  fee  your  pafte  is  a  litde  thick,  and  that  it 
does  not  ftick  to  the  fingers  j  then  proceed  as  before. 

MiLLE  Fruits  Biscuits.     Take  any  quantity  of  al- 
monds, .  prepare  them  and  dry  them  as  above ;    when 
dried,  cut  them  lengthways  in  five  bits ;  take  a  litde  cla- 
rified fugar  of  the  firft  degree,  throw  your  almonds  in, 
and  let  them  boil  one  minute  only,  take  them  ofi^  from 
the  fire  and  ftir  tjiem  well  with  a  fpoon  till  your  fugar  is 
dried  into  a  powder ;  then  take  half  of  your  almonds, 
which  are  white,  away:  put  a  litde  cochineal  to  thofe 
which  remain  in  the  pan,  to  redden  them,  in  fetting  them 
a  litde  over  the  fire  to  dry  the  colour,  and  continue  ftir- 
ring  them  all  the  while ;  mix  the  red  and  white  almonds 
together,  take  candied  angelica,  lemon,  and  orange  peel, 
cut  them  in  fmall  bits,  and  mix  them  with  almonds. 
Have  the  white  of  an  egg,  beat  it  with  a  fork,  adding 
fome  powdered  loaf  fugar  to  make  a  royal  pafte ;  let  it 
be  very  clear,  put  your  fruits  in  it,  and  mix  them  well 
together  5  then  drcls  them  with  your  fingers  upon  paper, 

making 


BITTERS.  93 

making  fitderockr  works  Mrith  theai>  and  put  thein  ia 
the  oven. 

Orange  Flower  Biscuits.  Take  twelve  whites  <£ 
eggs  and  fix  yolks,  obferving  to  let  them  be  new  laid  i 
CD  which  add  a  little  rafped  or  grated  green  lemon^  and 
beat  them  well  together  i  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  fine 
flour :  when  all  is  property  mixed,  bake  m  proper  cafes, 
and  glofs  them  as  ^eAed  for  the  reft. 

?o  tnake  Long  Biscuit?.  Break  twenty-eight  eggs> 
take  the  whites  of  fourteen,  and  beat  diem  very  well 
with  two  fpoonfuls  of  rofe-water,  to  which  add  three 
pounds  of  lifted  fugar,  beating  it  all  the  while  the  oven  is 
heating,  and  having  dried  two  pounds  and  a  quarter  of 
fine  flour,  put  it  in  cold,  and  put  in  two  eggs  j  fKr  it 
well  and  drop  it.  It  muft  *have  a  very  quick  oven  s 
bake  it  almoft  as  faft  as  you  can  fill  the  oven ;  laying  the 
papers  on  tin  plates,  or  elfe  they  will  be  apt  to  bunt  at 
the  bottom. 

This  bifcuit  was  what  was  ufually  eaten  by  Queen 
Mary,  King  William's  Queen,  and  was  her  feed  bifcuit^ 
by  the  addition  of  half  a  pound  of  carraway  feeds,  and 
baked  in  large  fquare  tin  plates,  the.  pans  being  but- 
tered. It  is  beft  baked  in  a  cool  oven,  after  the  baking 
f/f  die  aforefaid  drop  bifcuit. 


BITTERS. 

The  intention  of  thefc  is  well  known ;  they  are  gene- 
rally taken  to  flrengdien  the  ftomach,  create  an  appe- 
tite, qr  remove  fickncis.    We  have  fubjpined  ^  few  of 

the 


1 
I 


94  BLANC  MANGE, 

the  moil  approved  and  elegant  forms  from  the  Urndtnt 
jyifpenfatory. 

Bitter  Wine.  Take  of  gentian  root,  and  yellow 
rind  of  lemon-peel,  frefh,  each  one  ounce ;  long  pepper, 
two  drams;  mountain  wine,  two  pints ; macerate  with- 
QUt  heat,  and  ftrain  the  wine  for  uie. 

Jnother.  Gentian  root,  half  an  ounce;  Peruvian 
b^k,  one  ounce ;  Seville  orange-*peel,  dried,  two  drams  i 
Canella  alba  (fVtnter^s  bark),  one  dram ;  proof  Ipirit, 
four  ounces ;  Spanifh  white  wine,  two  pints  and  a  halfl 
Firft  pour  on  the  fpffit,  and  after  twenty-four  hoivs,  add 
the  wine ;  then  macerate  three  days^  and  ftrain. 

The  virtues  of  this  are  the  fame  as  thofe  of  the  prece- 
ding preparation,  but  much  more  powerful  in  their  na« 
turc.  A  wine-glafs  full  of  either  of  th«fe  m>y  be  taken 
fer  a  dofe. 

^iTtER  Tincture.  Gentian  root,  two  ounces;  yel- 
low rind  of  Seville  orange-peel,  dried,  one  ounce ;  lefler 
cardamod  feeds,  fi-eed  from  the  hulks,  half  an  ounce ; 
gpod  brandy,  two  pints.  Digeft  without  heal;,  and  fh-ain 
©ff  the  tinfture. 

Two  or  three  tea-fpoonfuls  may  be  taken  in  a  glafs  of 
vine,  or  any  odier  agreeable  liquor. 

A  compofition  refembling  the  above,  but  neither  io 
elegant  nor  judicious,  is  ibid  under  the  name  oi^taughton'x 
Bitters. 


BLANC    MANGE, 

Pick  three  ounces  of  ifinglals,  put  it"  in  a  ftew-pan, 
with  a  pint  of  boiling  water  i  let  it  fimmcr  on  a  flow  fire 

till. 


BI.ANC  MANGE.  55 

t31  it  b  quite  diflblved  1  add  to  it  a  quart  of  cream^  a 
ftick  of  cinnamon,  a  few  coriander  feeds,  the  rind  of  a 
lemon  pared  very  thin,  and  two  laurel  leaves :  boil  for 
thrtc  minutes,  and  Xweeten  to  your  talle ;  take  it  ofi; 
ftrain  through  a  fieve,  and  keep  ftirring  it  till  almoft 
cdW ;  then  do  your  moulds  with  a  little  Iweet  oil,  wipe 
diem  with  a  clean  cloth,  and  put  in  the  blanc  mange ;  let 
it  Hand  till  cold  and  ftiff,  loofen  it  round  the  edges  of 
die  mould  with  a  pin,  lay  it  carefully  in  a  difh,  and  ferve 
it  up. 

Another  way.  Put  an  ounce  of  picked  ifinglais  to  % 
pint  of  water ;  put  to  it  a  bit  of  cinnamon,  and  boil  it 
till  the  ifinglafs  is  melted;  add  three  quarters  of  a 
pint  of  cream,  two  ounces  of  fweet  almonds,  fix  bitter 
almonds,  blanched  and  beaten,  and  a  bit  of  lemon-peel; 
fwecten  it,  ftir  it  over  the  fire,  and  let  it  boil ;  flrain  it, 
ftir  it  till  it  is  cool,  fqueeze  in  the  juice  of  a  lemon,  and 
put  it  into  what  moulds  you  plcafe.  Turn  it  out,  gar^ 
nifli  with  currant-jelly  and  jam,  or  marmalade  quinces^ 
&c. 

If  you  choofe  to  have  your  blanc  mange  of  a  green 
colour,  put  in  as  much  juice  of  fpinach  as  will  benccef- 
fary  for  that  purpofe,  and  a  Ipoonful  of  brandy  j  but  it 
(hould  not  then  retain  the  name  of  blanc  mange  (white 
food),  but  verde  mange  (green  food).  If  you  would 
have  it  yellow,  diflblve  a  little  fafFron  in  it ;  you  fhould 
then  call  it  jaune  mange.  Or  you  may  make  it  red,  by 
putdng  a  piece  of  cochineal  into  a  little  brandy,  let  it 
ftand  half  an  hour,  and  flrain  it  through  a  bit  of  cloth : 
it  is  then  intitled  to  the  appellation  of  rouge  mange. 

Always  wet  the  mould  before  you  put  in  the  blanc 
mange.     It  may  be  ornamented,  when  turned  out,  by 

fticking 


9^         teLEfiDlNG, 

fticking  about  it  blatiched  almonds  fliced^  or  citron^  ic^ 
cording  to  fancy. 

Qear  Blanc  Mange:     T^ake  a  qiiart  of  ftrbrig  calf's— 
loot  jelly,  fkim  off  the  fat,  and  ftrain  it ;  beat  the  whites 
of  four  eggs,  and  put  iilto  a  jelly  bag,  and  run  it  through 
feveral  times,  till  it  is  clear :  beat  one  ounce  of  fweet  al- 
monds, and  one  of  bitter  to  a  pafte.  With  a  fpoonflil  of 
lofe- water  fqueezed  through  a  cloth ;  then  mix  it  with 
the  jelly,  and  three  Ipoonfuls  of  very  good  cream ;  fet  it 
over  the  fire  again,  and  keep  ftirring  it  till  it  is  almofl: 
boiling  5  then  pour  it  into  a  bowl,  and  ftir  it  very  often, 
rill  it  is  almofl:  colds   then  wet  your  moulds  and  fill' 
(hem.    . 

Blanc  Mange,  "With  a  preferved  Orange.  Fill  your 
orange  widi  blanc  mange,  and  when  cold,  ftick  in  it  long 
flips  of  citron,  like  leaves ;  pour  blanc  mange  in  the 
difh ;  when  cold,  fet  the  orange  in  the  middle.  Garnifll 
with  prefefVed  or  dried  fruits. 

Or  J  you  may  pour  your  blanc  mange  into  a  mould 
like  a  Turk's  cap,  lay  round  it  jelly,  a  little  broken ;  put 
a  Iprig  of  myrtle,  or  fmall  preferved  orange  on  the  top. 


BLEEDING. 

This  is  a  furgical  operation,  the  manner  of  which  we 
fhall  not  fpend  any  time  in  defcribing  j  feeing  it  per- 
formed once,  in  a  (kilful  manner,  would  give  a  better 
idea  than  twenty  pages  of  direftion.  When  feafonably 
and  properly  performed,  it  is  of  Angular  fervice  to  thofd 
in  diftrefs ;  and,  as  we  dbferved  in  our  preface,  is  by  no 
means  neceflarily  confined  to  medical  gentlemen.    We 

nuy 


BLEEDING.  97 

may  here  further  add,  that  vihcrt  a  timidity  of  difpofition 
prevents  the  ufe  of  the  lancet,  keches  may  be  had  re- 
couric  to,  with  as  .certain,  though  a  flower  efFcdt. 

Bleeding  is  proper,  and  indeed  neceflary  in  fcvere 
coHs,  and  the  beginning  of  moft  inflammatory  diforders : 
it  is  likemfe  proper  in  luch  inflammations  as  tho(e  of  th6 
inteflines,  itomach,  eyes,  throaty  ^c.  *  as  alfo  in  head-^ 
aches,  rheumatifms,  and  dyfcntery  or  bloody  flux  ^  ind 
after  falls,  blows,  bruifes,  or  any  violent  hurt,  either  in- 
ternally or  externally.  But  in  all  disorders  proceeding 
from  relaxation,  and  *an  impoverifiied  ftate  of  the  bloody 
bleeding  is  improper. 

The  quantity  of  blood  to  be  taken  away  muft  be  al- 
ways  regulated  by  the  ftrengrfi,  age,  corifl:iturion,  manner 
of  life,  and  other  circumftances  relating  to  the  patient. ' 

lifvoluntary,  or  Spontaneous-  Difcharges  of  Blood  fre-r 
quendy  happen  from  various  parts  of  the  bpdy^  but 
thefc  are  fo  far  from  being  always  dangerous,  that  they 
are  often  advantageous :  nor  is  it  proper  at  any  time  to 
ftop  diem,  unlefs  they  be  fo  great  as  to  endanger  the 
peribn's  life ;  for  fuch  difcharges,  if  they  return  at  regular 
times,  are  the  effbrts  of  nature  to  relieve  herfelf,  and 
fatal  difeafes  have  often  been  the  confequence  of  ob-r 
ftrudingthem. 

Bl:eeding  at  the  Nose 

Is  commonly  preceded  by  fome  degree  of  quickneis 
of  the  pulle,  flufhing  in  the  hct^  pulfatioi)  of  the  tem- 
poral arteries,  heavinels  in  the  head,  dimnefs  of  the 
fight,  heat  and  itching  of  the  noftrils,  S^c. 

To  perfons  who  abound  with  blood,  this  difcharge  is 
very  falutary.  It  oftens  cures  a  vertigo,  the  head-ach, 
a  phrcnzy^  and  eyen  an  epileply.    In  feyer§a  where 

Y^E.  J,  0  ^«r9 


98  BI.EEDING. 

;here  is  a  ffczt  decenniaatioA  of  blood  towards  tbehcadf^ 
it  is  of  the  Dtmoft  fervice.  It  is  likewife  beneficial  in 
inflammatioxis  of  the  liver  and  fpleen^  and  often  in  the 
gout  and  rheumatiim.  In  a^  difeafes  where  bleediAg  is 
oeceflary>  ^  fpontancous  difcharge  of  blood  froni  the 
nofe  is  of  onuch  more  fervic^  tb«p  ^e  fymc  quantity  lee 
out  with  a  lancet. 

In  a  difcharge  of  blood  from  the  noicj  the  great  point 
is  to  determine^  whether  it  ought  to  be  flopped  ot  ndt. 
|t  h  a  common  practice  to  ilop  the  ble^ing,  ^thput 
confukring  whetiicr  it  be  a  di£^al^  or  the  cure  of  tho 
difeafe.  This  condufl  proceeds  from  fear,  but  it  is  oftco 
bfldj  and  Ibnoedmes  of  fatal  confequence. 
.  When  a  difcharge  of  blood  from  th^  noie  happf ns  in 
an  inflammajLory  difeafe,  there  is  always  reafon  to  believe 
diat  it  may  prove  fahitary ;  ^d,  therefore,  it  flxould  be 
fufiered  to  go  oi^  at  leaft  as  long  as  the  patifnt;  is  no( 
weakened  by  it. 

When  it  happens  to  pcrions;  in  perfed):  heakh,  who 
are  full  of  bloody  it  ought  not  to  be  fuddenly  flopped ; 
efpecially  if  the  fymptoois  o(  plethora»  noentioned  above, 
have  preceded  it.  In  this  cafe  it  cannot  be  flopped 
without  riiking  the  patient's  Iji^. 

In  fine,  whenever  bleeding  at  the  n^fe  relieves  any 
bad  fymptoms,  and  does  not  proceed  {o  far  as  to  enr 
danger  the.  patient's  life,  it  ought  not  to  be  flopped ;  but 
when  it  returns  frequently,  or  continues  till  the  pulfe  be- 
comes low,  the  extremities  begin  to  grow  cold,  the  lips 
pale,  or  the  patient  CQipplains  of  being  fick,  o;-  faint,  it 
mufl  immediately  be  flopped. 

For  th^s  purpore  the  patient  Ihoijd  be  fef  nearly  up- 
right, with  his  head  reclining  a  little,  and  his  legs  im- 

merfed 


mer^,  in  water,  about  Ac  warmth  of  new  milk ;  his 
Jiands  ought  likewife  to  be  put  in  luke-warm  water^  and 
his  garter  ihay  be  ti^  a  litde  tightei-  than  ufuai.  Bind- 
ings may  be  applied  k>  the  armsj  ibout  the  place  where 
tiiey  are  illually  made  fyc  bleedings  iM  with  nearly  the 
^me  dc^ec  of  tigfctndsi  Thefe  muft.be  gr^ujly 
flackened  as  the  blood  begins  to  ftopj  and  removed  en- 
tiifely  as  ibon  as  it  g^ves  over. 

Sometimes  dry  fiiit  put  up  the  noftrils  will  ftop  the 
bteedings  whto  this  does  not  fucceed^  bits  dT  fiht  dip«- 
ped  in  ftrong  fpiriis  6f  winCi  may  be  put  up  the  noftrilSj 
or  if  that  cannot  be  had^  they  may  be  dipped  in  brandy. 
Blue  vitriol  diflSlv^ed  in  water  may  likewife  be  ufed  for 
this  purp<5(e ;  or  a  &nt  dipped  ihto  the  white  of  an  egg^ 
well  beat  up,  may  be  rolled  in  a  powder,  made  of  equd 
parts  o^  white  filgar,  burnt  alumj  and  white  vitriol,  and 
put  up  the  noftril  from  whence  the  blood  ifliies. 

internal  meditirics  cart  hairdly  be  of  tife  here,  aS  they 
hate  fbldotn  time  to  opwate.  It  may  not,  however,  be 
fcmifi  to  give  the  patient  half  an  ounce  of  Glauber's  fait, 
and  the  fame  quantity  of  manha^  diOblved  in  fbui-  or  five 
ounces  of  barley-water.  This  may  be  taken  at  a  draught, 
and  repeated,  if  it  docs  not  operate  in  a  few  hours.  Ten 
or  twelve  grains  of  nitre  may  be  taken,  in  a  glafs  of  cold 
water  and  vinegar  every  hour,  or  oftener,  if  the  ftomach 
will  bear  it.  When  thde  things  eannot  be  had,  the  pa^ 
fient  may  drink  waiter  #ith  a  little  common  fait  in  it,  6t 
equal  patts  of  y^ir  and  yint^^ 

Sometimes,  when  the  bleeding  is  ftopped  outwardly, 
it  cbrttinws  inwartUy.  This  is  very  troublefome,  and 
requires  partKcukf  attention,  as  the  patient  is  apt  to  be 
fuffocatcd  with  thfe  blcida;   efpeciaJly  if  hc'  fails  allcep, 

O  2  which 


100  BLEEDING. 

which  he  is  very  ready  to  do  aftep  lofing  a  great  quintitjr 
of  blood. 

After  the  bleeding  is  (topped^  the  patient  ought  to  be 
Jcept  as  eaiy  and  quiet  as  poflible.  He  fhould  not  pick  his 
nofe^  nor  take  away  the  tent$  or  clotted  bloody  till  they* 
fall  off  by  their  own  accord^  and  fhould. not  lie  with 
his  head  low. 

Thofe  who  arc  afFedcd  witfi  frequent  bleeding  at  the 
nofe,  ou^t  to  bathe  their  feet  often  in  warm  water,  and 
to  keep  them  warm  and  dry.  They  ought  to  wear 
nothing  tight  about  their  necks,  to  keep  their  body  as 
much  in  an  ere£t  pofture  as  poflible,  and  never  to  view 
.any  objeft  obliquely.  If  they  have  too  much  blood,  a 
vegetable  diet,  with  now  and  then  a  cooling  purge,  is  the 
fafcft  way  to  leflfen  it, 

But  when  the  difeafe  proceeds  from  a  thin  diflblved 
llate  of  the  blood,  the  diet  fhould  be  rich  and  nourifhing ; 
as  ftrongbodis  and  jellies,  fago,  gruel  with  wine  andfu- 
^r,  &c.  Infufions  of  the  Peruvian  bark  in  wine  ought 
likewife  to  be  taken,  and  perfifled  in  for  a  confiderablc 
time.    (See  Bolus,  No.  i.) 

Spitting  of  Blood. 

We  mean  here  to  treat  of  that  difchargc  of  blood  from 

the  lungs  only,  which  is  called  (pitting  of  blood.  Perfons 

of  a  flendcr  make,  and  a  lax  fibre,  who  have  Jong  necks, 

•^nd  ftrait  breafts,  are  moft  liable  to  this  difeafe.  It  is  moft 

common  in  the  fpring,  ^nd  generally  attacks  people  before 

ihcy  arrive  at  the  prime  or  middle  period  of  life.     It  is  a 

common  obfervation,.  that  thofe  who  have  been  fubjeft 

.to  bleeding  of  the  nofe  when  young,  are  afterwards  moft 

liable  to  ai^  hemoptoej  or  fpitting  of  blood* 

CL  This 


SPITTING  OP  iBLOOD:  tot 

This  diforder  may  proceed  from  excefi  of  blood,  from 
z  peculiar  weakneis  of  the  lungs,  or  a  bad  conformation 
of  the  brcaft.  It  is  often  occafioned  by  exceflive  drink- 
ing, running,  wrcftling,  or  Ipeaking  aloud :  luch  as  have 
weak  lungs  ought  to  avoid  all  violent  paflions,  exceflive 
drinking,  and  every  diing  that  occafians  a  rapid  circu- 
lation of  die  blood. 

This  difeafe  may  likewifc  proceed  from  wounds  of  the 
lungs :  thefe  may  either  be  received  from  without,  or 
dicy  may  be  occafioned  by  hard  bodies  getting  into  the 
windpipe,  and  fo  falling  down  upon  the  lungs,  and  hurt- 
ing that  tender  organ.  The  obftruftion  of  any  cufto-* 
mary  evacuadon  may  occafion  a  ipitdng  of  blood ;  as 
fiegled  of  bleeding  or  purging  at  the  ufual  feafons,  the 
ftoppage  of  the  natural  and  cuftomary  evacuations  in 
women,  &c.  It  may  likewife  proceed  from  any  thing 
that  obftrufts  the  circulation  of  the  blood  in  the  lungs. 
It  is  often  the  eflfeft  of  a  long  and  violent  cough ;  in 
which  cafe  it  is  generally  the  forerunner  of  a  confump- 
tion.  A  violent  degree  of  cdd  fuddenly  applied  to  the 
external  parts  of  the  body  will  occafion  an  hemoptoe :  it 
may  likewife  be  occafioned  by  breathing  air  which  is  too 
much  rarefied  to  be  able  properly  to  expand  the  lungs. 

This  is  often  the  cafe  with  diofe  who  work  in  hot 
places,  as  furnaces,  glafs-houfcs,  or  the  like :  it  may 
Ekewife  happen  to  fuch  as  afcend  to  the  top  of  very  high 
mountsdns,  as  the  peak  of  Tenerifl^  &c. 

Spitting  of  blood  is  not  always  to  be  confidered  as  a 
primary  difeafe ;  it  is  often  only  a  fymptom,  and  in  fome 
difeafes  not  an  unfavourable  one :  this  is  the  cafe  in  ' 
pleunficsj  peripneumonics,  ai^d  fundry  other  fevers.   In 

a  dropfy^ 


loa         SPITTING  of  BLOOD. 

a  dropfy,  fcunry,  or  confutiiption  it  is  a  bad  fymptohn, 
and  fliews  that  the  Ivmgs  are  debated. 

Spitting  of  blood  is  generally  preceded  by  a  fcnfe  iy£ 
wei^  artd  oppreflSon  of  the  breafti  a  dry  tickling  coughj 
hoarfenefs,  and  a  difficulty  of  breathing.     Sometitnfes  it 
is  ulhered  in  with  (hiverii^,  cold  of  the  extremities>  cof^ 
tivenefs,  great  laflitude,  flatulence,  pain  of  the  back  send 
]oins»  &c.    As  thefe  ibew  a  general  (Irifbire  upon  the 
veflels,  and  a  tendency  <^  the  blood  to  inflanvnation/ 
they  are  commonly  the  forerunners  of  a  vefy  copious 
difchaiige.    The  above  fymptoms  do  riot  attend  a  dif- 
charge  of  blood  from  the  gums  or  fauces,  by  which 
means  thefe  may  atways  be  diitinguilhed  (torn  an  he^ 
moptoe.     Sometimes  the  blood  that  is  ipit  up  is  tfata 
and  of  a  florid  red  colour ;  and  at  other  titn^  it  is  thicliS 
and  of  a  blackiih  colour ;  nothing  however  can  be  infer- 
red from  this  circumftance,  but  that  the  blood  has  lain  a 
longer  or  Shorter  time  in  the  breaft  before  it  Was  diC- 
charged. 

Spitting  of  blood,  in  a  ftrong  healthy  pcrfon,  of  a 
ibund  conftitution,  is  not  very  dangerotis ;  but  when  it 
attacks  the  tender  and  delicate,  or  peribns  of  a  wesdc  lax 
fibre,  it  is  with  difficulty  removed.  When  it  proceeds 
from  a  fcirrhus  or  polypus  of  the  lungs,  it  is  bad.  The 
danger  is  greater  when  the  difcharge  proceeds  from  the 
rupture  of  a  large  vcflel  than  of  a  fmall  one.  When  the 
extravafated  blood  is  not  fpit  up,  but  lodges  in  the  breafr, 
it  corrupts,  and  greatly  incrcafes  the  danger.  When  the 
blood  proceeds  from  an  uker  in  the  lungs,  it  is  general-- 
ly.  fatal. 

The  patient  ought  to  be  kept  cool  and  eafy.  Every 
thing  that  heats  the  body  or  quickens  the  circulation, 

incrcafes 


^PITTING   p»  BLOOD;  103 

increaiies  the  ^^uiger.    The  m'md  ought  Ukewife  to  be 

ibothed^  and  every  occafion  of  exciting  the  pafiions 

avoided.     Thte  4^t  ih^Id  be  fiifc^  cooling,  ai>d  flender, 

as  rice  boi^cd  with  niilk,  iinaU  broths,  barley  gruels,  pa« 

BSkdo,  &c.    Thfi  diet,  in  this  cafe,  can  firarce  be  too 

\m ;  even  water-gruel  is  fufficient  to  fupport  the  patien( 

fer  (bme  days*    All  ftrong  liquors  muft  be  avoided :  the 

patient  may  drii;Jc  xn^  and  water,  barley-water,  whey^ 

buttcr-milk,   and  fuch  like.     Every  thbg,  however, 

ihould  be  drank  cold,  and  in  fniall  quantities  at  a  titne^ 

He  fliould  obierve  th,e  ft^iifleft  filence,  or  at  leaf):  Ipeal^ 

with  a  v^  law  voice. 

This,  like  the  other  involuntary  difcharges  of  bloody 
ought  not  to  be  fuddenly  ftopt  by  aftringent  medicines  $ 
Qoore  sfufchief  19  often  done  by  thefe  than  if  it  were  fuf- 
fisred  to  go  on  i  it  may,  however,  proceed  fo  far  as  to 
weaken  the  patient,  and  even  endanger  his  life,  in  which 
cafe  proper  means  muft  be  u.fed  for  retraining  it. 

The  body  (hould  be  kept  gently  open  by  laxadve 
<}iet,  as  loafted  apples,  ftewed  prynes,  and  fuch  like ;  if 
thefe  (hould  not  have  the  defired  effe£b,  a  tea-ipoonfiil 
of  the  lenitive  ele&uary  may  be  t^en  twice  or  thrice  a 
day,  as  is  found  neceffary.  If  the  bleeding  proves  vio- 
lent, ligatures  may  be  applied  to  the  extremities,  as  di- 
PcAed  for  a  bleeding  at  the  noie. 

If  the  patient  bp  hot  or  fevieriih,  bleeding  and  finall 
dofes  of  nitre  will  be  of  ul^ ;  a  fcruple  or  half  a  dranot 
of  nitre  may  be  taken  in  a  cup  of  Ms  ordinary  drink 
twice  or  thrice  ^^  day ;  his  drink  may  likewiic  be  fhar- 
pened  with  acids,  as  juice  of  lemon,  or  a  few  drops  of 
thefpirit  of  vitriol;  or  he  may  take  frequently  a  cup  of 
die  tia£hii:e  of  roij^s. 

Bathing 


io4        VOMITING  op  BLOOP. 

f 

Bathing  the  feet  and  legs  in  lukewarm  water  has  lik.^— 
wife  a  very  good  efFeft  in  diis  difeafe.  Opiates  too  are 
ibmetimes  very  beneficial ;  but  thefe  riiuft  be  adminin- 
tered  with  caution.  Ten  or  twelve  drops  of  laudanum 
may  be  given  in  a  cup  of  barley-water  twice  a  day,  and ' 
continued  for  fbme  time,  provided  they  be  found  bene- 
ficial. 

The  conferve  of  rofes  is  likewife  a  very  good  medi— 
cine  in  this  cafe,  provided  it  be  taken  in  fufficient  quan- 
tity, and  long  enough  perfifted  in.  It  may  be  taken  to 
the  quantity  of  three  or  four  ounces  a  day ;  and,  if  the 
patient  be  troubled  with  a  cough,  it  fliould  be  made  in- 
to an  eleftuary  with  balfamic  fyruj),  and  a  little  of  the 
iyrup  of  poppies. 

If  ftronger  aftringents  be  neceflkry,  fifcpen  or  twenty- 
drops  of  the  acid  elixir  of  vitriol  may  be  given  in  a  glafi 
of  water,  three  or  four  times  a  day.  , 

Thole  who  are  fubjeft  to  fi-equent  returns  of  this  dif^ 
eafe,  fhould  avoid  all  cxcefs.  Their  diet  fliould  be  light 
and  cool,  confifting  chiefly  of  milk  and  vegetables; 
above  all,  let  them  beware  of  vigorous  eflbrts  of  the 
body,  and  violent  agitations  of  die  mind. 

Vomiting  of  Blood. 

This  is  not  fo  common  as  the  other  difchargings  of 
blood  which  have  already  been  mentioned;  but  it  is 
very  dangerous,  and  requires  particular  attention.  Vo- 
mitting  of  blood  is  generally  preceded  by  pain  of  the 
ftomach,  ficknefs,  and  naufca ;  and  is  accompanied  with 
great  anxiety,  and  fi-equent  fainting  fits. 

This  difeafe  is  fometimes  periodical  j  in  which  cafe  it 
is  lefs  dangerous.     It  often  proceeds  from  an  obftruftion 

c4 


VOMITING    OF  BLOOD.         io$ 

of  nature  in  women ;  and  Ibmetimcs  from  the  ftop- 
ping  of  the  bleeding  piles  in  men.  It  may  be  occa- 
fioned  by  any  thing  that  gready  ftimulates  or  wounds  the 
ftomach^  as  ftrong  vomits  or  purges,  acrid  poifons,  fharp 
or  hard  fubftances  taken  into  the  ftomach,  &c.  It  is  of- 
ten the  effed  of  obftruftions  in  the  liver,  the  fpleen,  or 
ibme  of  the  other  vifcera.  It  may  likewife  proceed  from 
external  violence,  as  blows  or  bruifcs,  or  from  any  of  the 
caufcs  which  produce  inflammation.  In  hyfteric  women, 
vooiitting  of  blood  is  a  very  common^  but  by  no  means 
a  dangerous  fymptom. 

A  great  part  of  the  danger  in  this  difeafc  arifes  from 
the  extravafated  blood  lodging  in  the  boWek,  and  be- 
coming putrid,  by  which  means  a  dyfentery  or  putrid 
fever  may  be  occafioned.  The  bell  way  of  preventing 
this,  is  to  keep  the  body  gendy  open  by  frequendy  ex- 
hibiting emollient  clyfters.  Purges  muft  not  be  given 
till  the  difcharge  is  flopt,  otherwife  they  will  irritate  the 
ftomach,  and  increafe  the  difprder.  All  the  food  and 
drink  mufl  be  of  a  mild  cooling  nature,  and  taken  in 
fmall  quantities.  Even  drinking  cold  water  has  fome- 
times  proved  a  remedy,  but 'it  will  fucceed  better  when 
Ihaipened  with  the  fpirits  of  vitriol.  When  there  are 
figns  of  ^  inflammation,  bleeding  may  be  neceflfary ; 
but  the  patient's  weaknefs  will  feldom  permit  it.  Opiates 
may  be  of  ufe ;  but  they  mufl:  be  given  in  very  fmall 
doles,  as  four  or  five  drops  of  liquid  laudanum  twice  or 
thrice  a  day. 

After  the  difcharge  is  over,  as  the  patient  is  generally 
troubled  with  gripes,  occafioned  by  the  acrimony  of  the 
blood  lodged  in  the  inteltines,  gentle  purges  will  be  ne- 
ceflary. 

Vol.  L  P  In 


to6  BOILING. 

In  whatever  other  diforders  which  m(e  from  w  pc* 
tri^ordinvy  difch^ge  ^f  blood,  wf  woyld  recommend  wt 
immediate  r^courf^  to  IVilful  aflift^ce. 


B  L  O  Q  D  Y*  F  L  U  X.     See  Dysekterv* 


BOILING. 

NeatneTs  being  amoft  material  Fcquifition  in  a  kitchen^ 
the  cook  ftiould  be  particularly  cautious  to  keep  all  the 
uteniUs  perfe(5Uy  dean,  and  the  pots  and  faucepans  pro- 
perly tinned.  In  boiling  any  kind  of  meat,  but  parti^ 
cularly  veal,  much  care  and  nicety  are  required*  FiH 
your  pot  with  a  fufficient  quantity  of  fi>ft  water,  dud 
your  veal  well  with  flour,  put  It  into  your  pot,  and  fet 
over  i  large  fire.  It  is  the  cuftom  of  Ibme  people  tb 
put  it  in  milk  to  make  it  white,  but  this  is  of  no  ufe, 
and  perhaps  better  omitted ;  for  if  you  ufe  hard  water, 
it  wilt  curdle  the  milk,  give  to  the  veal  a  browmfh  yel- 
low caft,  and  will  oftea  hang  in  lumps  about  it ;  oat^. 
meal  will  do  the  famie  thing  i  but  by  duding  your  veal, 
and  putung  it  into  the  water  when  cold,  it  wiU  prevent 
the  fbulnefs  of  the  water  from  hanging  upon  it.  Take 
the  fcum  off  clearly  as  foon  as  it  begins  to  rife,  and 
cover  up  the  pot  clofely*  Let  the  meat  boil  as  flowly 
as  poffible,  but  in  plenty  of  water,  which  will  make  your 
veal  rife  and  look  plump.  A  cook  cannot  make  a  greater- 
niiftake  than  to  let  any  fort  of  meat  boil  faft,  fince  it 
hardens  the  outfide  before  it  is  warm  within,  and  con- 
tributes to  difcolour  it :  thus  a  leg  of  veal  of  twelve 

pounds' 


SOLUS'.  107 

pounds  weight  will  take  tUret  hoitrs  and  a  half  boiling, 

and  the  flowef  it  boib,  the  whiter  and  plumper  it  will 

be.  When  mutton  or  beef  is  the  ob^eiS  of  your  cookery, 

be  careful  to  dredge  them  well  with  flour  before' you  put 

them  Jftto  the  pcyt  of  cold  water,  and  keep  it  covered ; 

biit  do  ifW  fdfjget  t6  take  off  the  fcum  as  often  as  it 

rifcs :  mutton  and  beef  do  not  require  fo  mtich  boiling ; 

nor  is  it  infuch  minded  if  it  be  a  little  under  tht  mark ; 

but  kfnb,  pork,  and  veal  fliould  be  well  boiled,  as  they 

will  be  otherwife  unwhdefome,   A  leg  of  pork  will  take 

an  hour  nH>re  boiling  tlian  a  feg  of  veal  of  the  feme 

weight ;  but  lA  gerteral,  when  you  boil  beef  or  mutton, 

you  may  allow  an  hour  for  every  four  pounds  weight. 

To  put  in  the  te\t^t  when  the  wattr  is  cokl,  is  aUowed 

to  be  the  bfeft  method,  as  it  thereby  gets  warni  to  the 

.  heart  beft)rc  the  outfide  gets  hard. 

Cooks,  however,  as  well  as  do61:6i*s,  difegreej  for 
fome  fay,  that  ^^  all  forfe  of  freffi  meat  ftiould  be  put  in 
when  the  water  boils  /*  but  we  prefer  the  above  method 
for  the  reafon  given.  If  you  apprehend  that  your  fait 
tocat  is  not  fufficicntly  corned,  it  will  be  biift  tq  put  it 
Mot  hot  water,  as  that  will  ftrike  in  the  fak. 


•*■ 


BOLUS. 

This  is  a  form  of  medicine  fomewhat  ftiiffcr  than  an, 
dcftv^ary,  interred  for  immediate  ufe,  and  is  generally 
compofed  of  powders,  with  a  proper  quantity  of  fytup,^ 
confcrve,  or  mucilage.  The  moft  ufeful  compofitions 
of  this  clafs  for  domeftic  ufe  are  the  following:  . 


loS  BOLUS, 

I.  Astringent  Bolus.  Take  of  alum  in  powder, 
fifteen  grains ;  gum  kino,  five  grains  j  fyrup,  a  fufficient 
quantity  to  make  a  bolus. 

In  an  exceffivc  flow  of  certain  female  difchargcs,  and 
other  violent  evacuations  of  blood,  proceeding  from  re- 
laxation, this  bolus  tmy  be  given  every  four  or  five 
hours,  till  the  difcharge  abates. 

IL  DiAPJiORETic  Bolus.  Take  of  gum  guaiacum 
in  powder>  ten  grains  -,  flowers  of  fulphur  and  cream 
of  tartar,  each  one  fcruple^  fimple  fyrup,  a  fufficient 
quantity.  In  rheumatic  complaints,  <lnd  diforders  of  the 
Ikin,  this  bolus  may  be  taken  twice  a  day.  It  will  alfo 
be  of  fervice  in  the  inflammatory  lore  throat. 

III.  Bolus  OF  Rhubarb  AND  Mi&RcuRY.  Take  half 
a  dram  of  the  beft  rhubarb  in  powder  j  four  or  five 
grains  of  calomel,  and  make  into  a  bolus  with  fimple  fy- 
rup.  This  is  a  proper  purge  in  hypochondriac  confti- 
^utions  i  but  its  principal  intention  is  to  es^el  worms. 
Where  a  llronger  purge  is  judged  necefTary,  jalap  may 
be  ufed  inftead  of  the  rhubairb. 

IV.  Pectoral  Bolus.  Take  of  Iperma-ceti,  one 
fcruple ;  gum  ammoniac,  ten  grains ;  fait  of  hart(horn> 
fix  grains  -,  make  into  a  bolus  with  fimple  fyrup. 

To  be  given  in  colds  and  coughs  of  long  (landing, 
afthmas,  and  beginning  confumptions  of  the  lungs.  It 
is  proper  to  bleed  the  patient  previous  to  the  ufe  of  this 
^ledicine. 

V.  Purging  Bolus.  Take  jalap  in  powder,  one 
fcruple ;  cream  of  tartar,  two  fcruples ;  let  them  be  well 
rubbed  together,  and  formed  into  a  bolus  with  fimple 
fyrup. 

Where 


BRAWN.  !09 

Where  a  mild  purge  is  wanted,  this  will  anrwcr  the 
purpofe  very  well ;  if  a.ftronger  dofe  be  neceffary  the ja* 
lap  may  be  increafed  to  half  a  dram  or  upwards. 


BOWELS.    See  Stomach^ 


mrm 


BRAWN. 

Por  the  purpofe  of  making  brawn,  you  ftiould  chufe 
an  old  boar,  for  the  older  he  is,  the  more  horny  will  the 
brawn  be ;  he  ought  to  be  fed  plentifully  with  peafe  and 
fkimmed  milk ;  and  when  he  is  thus  feeding,  care  muft 
be  taken  that  he  has  always  meat  before  him^  for  ncg- 
fc&  in  this  will  Ipoil  the  whole  Uefign^ 

J%e  method  of  preparing  Brawn.  The  boar  being 
killed,  it  is  the  flitches  only  without  the  legs  that  arc 
made  brawn,  the  bones  of  which  are  to  be  taken  out, 
and  then  the  flefh  fprinkled  with  fait  and  laid  in  a  tray, 
that  the  blood  may  drain  off;  then  it  is  to  be  falted  a  lit- 
tie  and  rolled  up  as  hard  as  pofllble  j  fo  that  the  length 
ef  the  collar  of  brawn  be  as  much  as  one  fide  of  the 
boar  will  bear,  and  to  be,  when  it  is  rolled  up,  nine  or 
ten  inches  diameter. 

The  collar  being  thus  rolled  up,  is  to  be  boiled  in  a 
copper  or  large  kettle  in  a  good  quantity  of  water,  till  it 
is  lb  tender  that  you  can  run  a  very  flender  flcewer 
through  it ;  then  fet  it  by  till  it  is  thoroughly  cold,  and 
put  it  into  the  following  pickle : 

To  every  gallon  of  water  put  a  handful  or  two  of  fait, 
knd  as  much  wheat  branj    boil  them  well  together; 

then 


no  BRAWN. 

then  ftrain  the  brawn  as  clear  as  you  can  from  the  li- 
quor, and  when  the  liquor  is  quite  cold,  put  the  brawn 

to  it. 
This  pickle  muft  be  made  a^frefh  for  it  every  three 

weeks. 

Some  put  half  fmall  beer  and  half  water,  but  the  fmaU 
beer  muft  be  fuch'as  is  brewed  with  pale  malt. 

The  boar*s  head  being  well  cl^ane4>  may  be  boiled 
and  pickled  as  the  brawn  is  donOw 
.  To  nfuki  Brawn  o/Pio,  Let  the  p^  be  pretty  jargc 
and  fat,  but  by  no  means  fpotted  5  fcald  it,  draw  and 
bone  the  whole,  except  the  head ;  then  cut  it  into  col- 
lars overthwart  both  fides,  waih  it  and  let  it  lie  in  foak 
two  hoOTS  in  (alt  and  water,  dry  it  with  a  clean  cloth  and 
feafon  the  infide  with  fait  and  lemon-peel  mingled,  aiicl 
roll  the  two  fides  up  even  at  both  ends  j  put  them  up 
into  clean  cloths,  and  tie  them  about  very  tight  j  malqe 
your  water  boil,  put  them  in  with  fome  f?dt,  keeping  the 
pot  well  fkimmcd,  and  when  boiled  enough  hoop  thcm» 
and  keep  them  in  an  even  frame,  and  when  they  arc 
grown  cold,  put  them  into  a  fouie  drink,  made  of  whey 
^d  fait  or  oatmeal  boiled  and  ftraincd ;  and  then  put 
them  into  fuch  veffels  in  which  they  may  be  clofcly 
flopped  up  from  the  air. 

To  fmfe  Brawn.  Take  fat  brawn  about  three  years 
^Id,  cut  the  head  clofe  to  the  ears,  bone  the  fides,  and  cut 
fine  collars  off  a  fide  bone  and  hinder  leg,  an  inch  deeper 
in  the  belly  than  in  the  back ;  bind  them  up  equally  aD 
both  ends,  and  lay  them  in  fair  water  and  fait  for  twen- 
ty-four hours  i  then,  having  boiling  water  ready,  put 
;hem  in,  keeping  the  pot  conftantly  flymmed,  and  after 

;J^ey 


BRAWN.  Ht 

Acy  have  had  one  brifk  tx>iling,  let  them  boil  but  lei- 
iarety>  putting  in  freih  water  as  it  boils  away ;  lefien  the 
fire  by  degrees,  and  let  (land  all  night :  when  they  arc 
between  hot  and  cold,  take  them  out,  and  put  them 
into  hoops,  binding  them  with  packthread,  and  put . 
them  into  a  ibufe  made  of  oatmeal  and  bran  with  &ir 
water :  when  cold,  ftrain  it  through  a  fieve,  feafon  it 
with  &k  and  vinegar,  cloTe  up  the  veffel  tight,  and  keep 
it  for  ufe. 

To  keep  this  pickle  good  for  any  length  of  dme,  you 
fhould  add  a  qu^t  of  brandy  or  fpirit  of  wine  to  every 
gallon  of  foufe  drink. 

Mock  Brawn.  Take  a  piece  of  the  belly  part  of 
pork  and  a  cheek,  rub  them  with  fak  and  falt-petre,  let 
fliem  lay  four  days,  then  boil  the  cheek  and  take  out  the 
bones ;  bone  alfo  two  ox  feet  that  have  been  boiled  ten- 
der ;  cut  die  cheek  and  feet  into  dices,  lay  them  on  the 
pork,  feafon  with  the  ufual  Icafonings,  roll  all  up  tight, 
tic  it  in  a  cloth,  and  boil  it  in  foft  water  for  three  hours  } 
when  done,  take  it  out,  tie  it  tight  at  each  end  -y  fet  it 
up  on  one  end,  with  a  piece  of  wood  or  trencher,  and 
weight  on  the  other  to  prels  it ;  when  cold,  take  off  the 
weight  and  cfoth,  bind  it  round  with  a  fillet,  and  keep 
it  in  foufe. 

Another  way.  Take  two  pair  of  neat's  feet,  boil 
them  very  tender,  and  pick  the  flcfh  entirely  fi-om  the 
bones ;  take  the  belly  piece  of  pork,  boil  it  till  it  is  near 
enough,  then  bone  it,  and  roll  the  meat  of  the  feet  up 
in  the  pork  very  tight  j  then  take  a  ftrong  cloth,  with 
fome  coarfe  tape,  and  roll  it  round  very  tight ;  tie  it  up 
in  a  clodi,  boil  it  till  it  is  fo  tender  that  a  draw  may  be 

t*  run 


fit  B  R  E  A  T 

run  through  it^  let  it  be  hung  up  in  a  cloth  till  it  iS  quitif 
cold,  after  which  put  it  into  fome  fouling  liquor,  and 
keep  it  for  ufe. 

It  muft  be  obferved  that  the  Ibufing  liquor  ought  to 
be  rehewed  every  three  bf  four  weeks  j  befides  which  it 
renders  the  brawn  in  all  cafes  very  infipid ;  many  fami- 
Kcs  keep  both  the  real  and  mock  brawns  in  earthen  pots^ 
dofe  covered,  and  in  a  cool  place  5  and  fometimes  wrap- 
ping them  round  with  a  coarfe  cloth,  well  wet  in  vine- 
gar* 


BREATH. 

We  mean  here  only  to  confider  fuch  an  offenfive  breath 
as  is  conftantly  an  attendant  on  the  fcurvy  in  the  gums, 
or  may  alfo  proceed  from  putrefied  matter  lodged  in 
hollow  teeth ;  this  complaint  alfo  frequently  arifes  from 
debility  or  weaknefs  of  the  ftomach  and  digeftive  facul- 
ties :  in  any  cafe  it  may  at  leaft  be  difguifed,  if  not 
greatly  remedied,  by  gargling  the  mouth  frequently  with 
the  following  water : 

Take  frefti-gathered  (if  conveniently  procured,  if  not 
dried)  leaves  of  fage,  angelica,  wormwood,  favory,  fennel, 
mint,  hyflbp,  balm,  fweet  bafil,  rue,  thyme,  marjoram, 
rofemary,  origanum,  calamint,  and  wild  thyme,  each 
four  ounces,  the  fame  quantity  of  lavender  flowers,  cut 
them  fmall ;  pour  upon  them  one  gallon  of  good  bran- 
dy, or  fpirit  of  wine,  and  let  them  (land  in  a  warm  fitu- 
ation  for  a  week  or  thereabouts ;  then  decant  for  ufe. 

To  half  a  wine  glafs  of  this  tinfture,  add  the  fame 
quantity  of  rofe  water,  or  any  other  diftilled  water  you 
farxy,  gargle  the  mouth  well  (rubbing  the  gums  with 

your 


B  R.  E  W  I  N  G.  H3 

your  finger)  with  about  half  of  it,  and  rinfc  the  mouth 
with  the  remainder. 

If  half  or  a  whole  glafs  of  this  tinfture,  diluted  as  be- 
fore>  be  drank  every  morning,  after  the  above  operation, 
it  will  cherilh  the  lungs,  enliven  the  hearty  fortify  the 
flx>mach,  and  cleanfe  them  of  every  impurity  that  may 
affeffc  the  breath.  It  is  likewife  much  fuperior  to  prepa- 
rations fit)m  eaftcm  aromatics  and  perfumes,  whofe  very 
powerful  fcent  only  difcovers  what  their  ufe  is  defigned 
to  conceal. 

Thofe  who  attend  to  daily  clcanlinds  in  their  teeth 
and  gums,  are  never  troubled  with  a  foulneis  of  breathy, 
unle&  originating  in  the  ftomach. 


BREWING, 

The  operation  of  preparing  ale  or  beer /rom  malt.  In 
order  to  brewing  good  drink,  great  care  is  to  be  taken 
in  the  choice  of  the  water,  malt,  and  hops,  and  not  lels 
m  the  manner  of  mixing  and  fermenting  them. 

The  beft  water  for  brewing  is  that  of  a  clear  rivulet 
undifturbed  by  navigation  or  fording,  and  taken  up  while 
the  banks  have  not  been  wafhed  by  rain ;  fuch  as  is  fbft, 
and  has  partook  of  the  air  and  fun ;  for  this  eafily  infi- 
nuates  itlclf  into  the  malt,  and  extrafts  its  virtues;  while 
hard  waters  aftringe  and  bind  the  pores  of  the  malt,  and 
prevent  the  virtue  of  it  from  being  freely  communicated 
to  the  liquor.  It  is  a  rule  adopted  by  brewers,  that  all 
water  which  will  mix  and  laAer  with  foap  Js  pfopfer  for 
brewing,  and  they  wholly  difapprove  of  any  other.  The 
experiment  has  been  often  tried,  that  where  4he'firhc 

Vol.  I,     ^'{^    "      ••  •    quiftv 


ti4  B  R  E  W  I  N  G. 

cfuiritity'of  malt  hsisf  been  ufed  to  a  barrel  of  river  water 
as  to  a  barrel  of  ipring  water,  the  former  has  excelled  the 
latter  in  ftrength,  in  a  degree  almoft  double,  the  malt 
bciiig'  die  fame  in  quality,  as  well  as  in  quantity,  for  each 
barrel  -,  the  hops  the  fame  in  all  refpcdfe,  and  the  time  df 
boiling'  equal  in  each*  They  were  forked  in  the  fame 
manner,  tod  tunned  and  kept  in  the  fame  cellar.  Hence 
it  is  evident,  that  there  could  have  been  no  diffeitiice 
but  in  the  water. 

Pond  water,  and  other  (landing  waters,  in  rich 
(founds,  if  dear  and  fwcet,  will  make  ftronger  drink 
ifriffi  lefe  rtialt,  than  will  pump  or  conduit  waters.  Rain 
water,  where  it  is  faved  from  lead,  ahd  without  paiHng 
over  any  mortar  whence  it  may  extraft  fait,  will  do  very 
well  for  brewing  ale  that  is  to  be  drank  new ;  but  will 
not  be  proper  for  drinks  Aat  are  to  be  long  kept. 

Where  foft  water  is  not  to  be  procured,  that  which  is 
hard  may  be  fofrened,  by  expofing  it  to  the  air  and  fun, 
and  putting  into  it  fome  pieces  of  foft  chalk  to  infufe  ; 
or,  before  you  begin  to  boil  it,  in  order  to  be  poured  on- 
the  malt,  put  intp  it  a  quantity  of  bran,  which  will  foftcn 
it  a  little* 

In  manapiig  yeflcls  for  the  prefcrvation  of  beer,  they 
muft  not  at  one  time  be  fcalded^  and  at  another  time 
waihed  with  cold  water ; — But  obferve^,  the  day  before 
ttt-ewing,  tO'  have  ^1  your  veflels  very  clean^  ?uid 
ilever  ufe  your  tubs  for  any  other  ufe,  except  it  be  to 
lifiake  wincs^  L<et  your  caiks  ^c  well  cleaned  with  boil- 
ing water  i  and,  if  your  bung  is  large  enough,  fcrub 
ihtrn  well  with  a  li^dc  birch  broom,  pr  brufh*  If  they 
^e  yery  bad,  take  out  die  he^s^  and  let  them  be  forub- 
li^  ple^  W^th  A  hand-brulh,  fand^  and  fiiljer's  earth. 


B  RE  VI  NQw  ;fJ5 

in  a  piece  of  unfUcked  limej  ao^  ftpp  .the  hxmg  clofe« 
Xco  iQuch:  attentip^  can  never  bp  (^eite4  to  preveoc 
your  caflcs  .frpoi  becoining  tM&y,  pr  ^cguirit^  .a|i  jjX 
cafic 

Gbnsral  Rules  roR  Sutworo* 

l^our  fy^^7//  fhould  be  (bund  and  goo(t,  and  fuch.as  has 
lain  about  two  months  in  the  heap  after  it  l^is  been  mal^ 
ted. 

Heps  ought  to  be  chofen  of  a  bright  .cqlour,  wdl 
icented)  veil  dried  and  cured,  and  about  a  year  old. 

Fine  ftrong  Oftober  fliould  have  iive  quarters  of  malt 
and  twenty-four  pounds  ,of  hqps  to  three  h<^iheads : 
this  will  afterwards  make  two  hogfheads  of  good  keep« 
big  fmall  becr>  with  the  additiqn  of  five  pounds  of  hop?* 

Por  middling  beerj  a  quarter  of  nialt  m^es  ^  hogf-- 
head  of  ale,  and  another  of  fmall  beer  *,  or  it  will  m^e 
three  hogfheads  of  good  fmall  beer,  allowing  eight 
pounds  of , hops :  this  will  keq)  all  the  year.  Or  it  v^U 
tn^e  twenty  gallons  of  (trgog  ale,  ^nd  two  hogfhta^s 
of  .fmaQ  beer  that  will  keep  .all  the  year.  , 

Any  one  who  .intends  tp  ki^ep.^e  a  great  while,  fhould 
allow  a  pouQd  pf  hop?  ,tp  evQry  buihd ;  if  to  keep  pply 
fix  months,  five  poiiQ(ls  tp  a  hpgfhe^di  .if  for  prefent 
drinking,  tthree  ppvQds  to  a  hogfheadj  apd  the  fpftefl 
aixl  cleareil  w^ter  you  can, get. 

The  ingredients  jbejn^  prepared^  die  water  mufl  be 
.imde  to  boil. very  fpepdiiy,  and  while  boiling  with  ihc 
^eatefl  violence,  the  fire  n^uil  be  immediately  damped 
or  put  put,  and  the  :ff^U^  emptied  into  the  m^afhrtub> 
^letting  k  be  cgpl  opug^  to  fee  your  &ce  jn ;  .^h^n  jput 

CLa  in 


n5  BREWING. 

in  your  mak,  and  let  it  be  wdl  mafhed :  have  a  copper 

t)f  water  boiling  in  the  mean  time,  and  when  your  mdk 
is  well  maftied,  fill  your  mafliing-tub ;  ftir  it  well  again^ 

'and  cover  it  over  with  the  facks.  Let  it  (land  three 
hours ;  fet  a  broad  {hallow  tub  under  the  cock,  let  it 
run  very  fpfdy,  and  if  it  is  thick,  throw  it  up  again  till 
it  runs  fine,  then  throw  a  handful  of  hops  in  the  under 
tub,  let  the  malh*  run  into  it,  and  fill  your  tubs  till  ^ 
is  run  off.  Have  water  boiling  in  the  copper,  and  lay 
as  much  more  on  as  you  have  occaQon  for,  allowing  one 
third  for  boiling  and  wafte  i  let  that  ftand  an  hour,  boil- 
ing more  water  to  fill  the  mafh-tub  for  fmall  beer :  let 
the  fire  down  a  litde,  and  put  it  into  tubs  enough  to  fill 
your  mafli.  Let  the  fecond  mafh  be  run  off,  and  fill 
your  copper  with  the  firft  wort  j  put  i|i  part  of  your 
hops,  and  make  it  boil  quick  j  about  an  hour  is  long 
enough.  When  it  has  boiled,  throw  in  a  handfiil  of  fait. 
Have  a  clean  white  wand,  dip  it  into  the  copper,  and 
if  the  wort  feels  clammy,  it  is  boiled  enough ;  then 
llackcn  your  fire,  and  take  off  your  wort :  have  ready  a 

"  large  tub,  put  two  flicks  acrofs,  and  fet  your  ftraining 
balket  ov^r  the  tub  on  the  flicks,  and  ftrain  your  wort 
through  it.  ,  Put  your  other  wort  on  to  boil  with  the  reft 
of  the  hops  i  let  your  mafli  be  covered  again  with  water, 
and  thin  your  wort  that  is  cooled  in  as  many  things  as 
you  can  j  for  the  thinner  it  lies,  and  the  quicker  it  cools, 
the  better.  When  quite  cool,  put  it  into  the  tunning- 
tub.     Throw  a  handful  of  fak  into  every  boil.     When 

.  the  mafh  has  flood  an  hour,  draw  it  off;  then  fill  your 
mafti  with  cold  water,  take  off  the  wort  in  the  copper, 
and  order  it  -as  before.  When  cool,  add  to  it  the  firft  in 
the  tub.  As  foQn  as  you  empty  one  copper,  fill  the  other 

, .      ani 


BREWING.  «7 

and  boil  your  fmall  beer  well.   Let  the  lafl:  malh  run  ofF^ 

and  when  both  are  boiled  with  frefh  hops,  order  them  as 

the  two  firft  boilings.   When  cool,  empty  the  mafh-tuby 

and  put  the  fmall  beer  to  work  there.     When  cool 

enough,  work  it,  fet  a  wooden  bowl  foil  of  yeaft  in  the 

beer,  and  it  will  work  over  with  a  litde  of  the  beer  in 

the  boil.     Stir  your  tun  up  every  twelve  hours ;  let  it 

ftand  two  days,  then  tun  it,  taking  off  the  yeaft.     Fill 

your  veflels  foil,  and  fave  fome  to  fill  your  barrels ;  let  it 

ftand  till  it  has  done  working ;  then  lay  on  your  bung 

lightly  for  a  fortnight^  after  which  ftop  it  as  cloie  as  you 

can.     Take  care  to  have  a  vent-peg  at  the  top  of  the 

veflcl ;  in  warm  weather  open  it,  and  if  your  drink  hiffes, 

as  it  often  will,  looien  it  till  it  has  done,  and  then  ftop  it 

clofc  again.     If  you  can  boil  your  ale  in  one  boiling,  it 

will  be  beft,  if  the  copper  will  admit  of  it  j  if  not,  boil 

as  conveniency  ferves. 

If  ^en  you  come  to  draw  your  beer,  you  perceive  it 
is  not  fine,  draw  off*  a  gallon,  and  fet  it  on  the  fire,  with 
two  ounces  of  ifinglafs  cut  fmall  and  beat.  Diflblve  it 
in  the  beer  over  the  fire.  When  it  is  all  melted,  let  it 
ftand  till  it  5s  cold,  and  pour  it  in  at  the  bung,  which^ 
muft  lay  loofe  on  till  it  has  done  fermenting ;  then  ftop^ 
it  clofe  for  a  month. 

The  month  of  March  is  generally  confidercd  as  a 
proper  feafon  for  brewing  malt  liquor,  which  is  intended 
for  keeping ;  becaufe  the  air  at  that  time  of  the  year  is 
temperate,  and  contributes  to  the  proper  working  or  fer- 
mentation of  the  liquor,  which  principally  promotes  its 
prelcrvation  arid  good  keeping.  Very  cold,  or  very  hot 
weather,  prevents  the  free  fermentation,  or  working  of 

a  liquors  I 


«^9  3  R  E  W  1  N  0, 

liqu6r% ',  thefefbre,  if  you  brcw  in  very  cold  we^thcr^  yn^ 
Jefs  you  contrive  fome  .means  to  .vyarm  the  cell^  while 
fiew  liquor  is  workii)g>  it  y^ill  pever  de^r  itfelf  in  -th^ 
n^anncr  ypu  .wpulfl  wifh*     The  fame  piiffortune  wiU 
^ife  i^  in  very  hot  .weather,  you  cannot,  put  the  cellar 
into  a  temperate  ftate«     The  confequence  of  which  wiU 
he,  tbfiK  fuch  liquor  will  be  muddy  and  Ibur^  perhap;^ 
beyond  all  recovery.     Such  miafortunes  indeed  pftea 
happen^  even  in  the  proper  feafon  for  ^brewing,  owing 
ibkly  to  the'badnefs  of  a  cellar;  for  when  they  are  di|g 
in  iprin^  grpunds,  or  are  fvibjeit  to  danips  in  the  win- 
der, the  liquor  will  chiU>  and  become  vapid  or  .flat- 
Where  cellars  are  of  this  kind,  it  will  be  adviieable  to 
:br€w  in  March,  rather  than  0<5bober  3  for  you  may  be 
^ble  to:k^ep  fuch  cellars  teniiperate  in  fummer,  but  yo^ 
9innot  make  them  warm  in  winter.    The  beer  dicrefore 
which  is  brewed  in  March,  will  have  fufiicient  time  tp 
-fettle  and  adjufl:  it&i^  before  the  cold  can  do  it  any  paa* 
terial  injury. 

If  you  brew  in  March  or  0(ftober>  and  hop  it  for 
Jong  keeping,  you  are  then  upon  its  fecond  working  yp 
^o  a  yeaft  (after  .you  have  beaten  it  in  once)  to  put  it  up 
into  your  veffel  with^the  yeaft'in  it,  ftUing  it  up  ftiil  as 
it  worlds  over,  and  leave  a  good  thick  head  of  yeaft, 
.whcnyqu-ftqp  it  up* 

JP*or  M^ch  jand  0<5lober  beer  it  >^iU  be  requifitc  to 

have  large  yeflek  well  bound  with  iron  hoops,  contain- 

.ing  two,  diree,  or  four  hpgiheads,  if  you  brew  fo  large 

.a  qjiantii;y j  -this  fort  of  dripk  keeping,  d^fl^ng  and 

;0;*ellowing  be(l,  when  ,in  large  quantities. 

If  the  vcflels  be  not  hpope^  .with  iron,  this  March 
bqer  will  be  in  danger  of  being  Ipoiled.pr  lofti  to  leave 

the 


ft  R  E  W  I  N  G.  119 

the  wnt-p^g  always  open  palls  it,  and  if  it  happen  to  be 
faftened  but  fix  hours  together  inthe  fummer,  by  fudiieii 
Annder  or  a  ftormy  night,  you^  rinay  perK^  the  nejft 
morning  find  an  ciinpty  veflfel,  and^  a  covered  flooi*. 

S6itae  wifl  have  it  that  March  is^the  beKl  nrtohth  iii  th<6 
y«ff  for  bre#irig ;  but  it  has  be^ri  fouiid  by  eXjperi«nc^ 
that  OSal^ery  being  fbcceedcd^  by  fo  many  cold  months' to 
digtft  it  ihi  proves  the  better  drihR  by  much,  and  dofii 
A^it  require  fo  rtiuch' Watchirig  aiid  tending  as  Miuh  htet 
does,  iri  opening  arid  ftcjppiilg  the  vent-httte  oh  every 
change  of  weather. 

Ji&rcb  beer  broftfched  at  Chrijms,  and  OSober  at  M<#- 
fitmmtt^  arc  gerieraliy  at  the  b^ft:  blit  Will  keep  very 
well  in  bottles  a  year  c^  more ;  but  the  bung-hole  ought 
to  be  flx)pt  clofe,  not  with  clay  but  With  cork,  and  let 
there  be  a  litde  vent-hole  ftopt  with  a  ^ile  near  the  bung* 
hole;  which  Ibould  never  be  pulted  out  but  when  a 
quantity  is  drawn  off  together. 

And  by  beirig  kept  fo  clofe  ftopt,  it  will  flulh  violentif 
out  of  thfe  cock  for  about  a  quart,^  and  then  ftop  on  a 
Hidden,  and  pearl  and  fmile  in  a  glafs  like  botded  beer, 
jddibug^  it  be  in  winter.  But'  if  the  vent-p^  be  once 
puSed  out  to  draw  a  qtiantity,  it  Will  lofe  its  bri(kne& 
and' be  fomei  time  before  it  recoi^r  if. 

Several  countries  have  their  feveral  methods  of  brew- 
ing, as  it  is  pradifcd  in  Wales,  liorchefter,  Notting- 
ham, &c.  but  that  which  w*  think  nioft  ferviceablQ 
both  in  the  country  antf  London  private  families,  is  as 
fellows: 

SuppOfe  a  private  family  fliould  lir^w  five  bulhels  of 
m^k,  wHofe  coppiJr  holdsi,  brim  full,  thirty-fix-  gallons^ 
or  t  barrels  on  tlH^'Watei^  We  put^fiatf  a  peck  of  tx-an  or 

maltj 


120  BREWING. 

malt,  when  it  is  fomcthing  hot,  which  will  much  forward 
it,  by  keeping  in  the  fteam,  or  fpirit  of  the  water  j  when 
it  begins  to  boil,  if  the  water  is  foul,  Ikim  off  the  bran 
or  malt,  and  give  it  to  the  hogs,  or  lade  both  the  water 
and  that  into  the  mafli  vat,  where  it  is  to  remain  till  the 
fteam  is  near  fpent,  and  you  can  fee  your  face  in  it,  which 
will  be  in  about  a  quarter  of  an  hour  in  cold  weather ; 
then  let  all  but  half  a  bulhel  of  malt  run  very  leifurely 
into  it,  ftirring  it  all  the  while  with  an  oar  or  paddle, 
that  it  may  not  ball,  and  when  the  malt  is  nearly  mixed 
with  water  it  is  enough.     This  is  different  from  the  old 
way,  and  the  general  prefcnt  prafticej  but,  by  not  ftir- 
ing  or  maftiing  the  malt  into  a  pudding  confiftence,  or 
thin  mafh,  the  body  of  it  lies  in  a  more  loofe  condition, 
that  will  cafier  and  fooner  admit  of  a  quicker  and  more 
true  paflage  of  the  after-ladings  of  the  feveral  bowls  or 
jets  of  hot  water,  which  muft  run  through  it  before 
the  brewing  is  ended ;  by  which  free  percolation,  the 
water  has  ready  accefs  to  all  the  parts  of  the  broken 
malt,  fo  that  the  brewer  is  enabled  to  brew  quicker  or 
flower,  and  to  make  more  ale  or  fmall  been     If  more 
ale,  then  hot  boiling  water  muft  be  laded  over  fo  flow, 
that  one  boil  muft  run  almoft  off  before  another  is  put 
over,  which  will  occafion  the  whole  brewing  to  laft  ^bout 
fixteen  hours,  efpecially  if  it  be  fpent  out  of  the  tap  as 
fmall  as  a  ftraw,  and  as  fine  as  fack,  and  then  it  will  be 
quickly  fo  in  die  barrel.     Or  if  lefs  or  weaker  ale  is  to  be 
made,  and  good  fmall  beer,  then  the  fecond  copper  of 
boiling  water  muft  be  put  over  expeditioufly,  and  drawn 
out  with  a  large  and  faft  ftream.     After  the  firft  ftirring 
of  the  malt  is  done,  then  put  over  the  referve  of  half  a 
bvftipl  of  frefh  malt  to  the  four  buftiels  anii  a  half  that 

arc 


BREWING.  121 

{kre  alitadjr  in  the  tub,  ^lehich  mvift  be  fpread  all  over  it, 
and  aHb  cover  the  tub  with  fome  facks,  or  other  cloths, 
10  keep  in  the  fteam  or  fpirit  c(  the  malt$  then  let  it 
ftand  for  two  or  three  hours,  at  the  end  of  which,  put 
over  now  and  dien  a  bowl  of  the  boUing  water  in  the 
copper,  as  is  before  dire£led,  and  fo  continue  to  do  till 
as  much  is  run  off  as  will  almoft  fill  the  copper.    Then, 
in  a  canvas,  or  other  loofe-woven  cloth,  put  in  half  a 
pound  of  hops,  and  boil  them  half  an  hour,  when  thef 
muftbe  taken  out,  and  as  many  frefli  ones  put  in  their 
room  as  are  judged  proper,  ^to  boil  half  an  hour  more, 
if  (or  ale.    But  if  fw  keeping  beer,  half  a  pound  of 
firefli  ones  ought  to  be  put  in  every  half  hour,  and  boil 
an  hour  and  a  half  brifkly.    Now,  while  the  firft  copper 
of  wort  is  boiling,  there  ihouki  be  icalding  water  lei- 
iiirely  put  over,  bowl  hj  bowl,  and  run  off,  that  the 
copper  nnay  be  filled  again  immediately  after  the  firft  is 
out,  and  boiled  an  hour,  with  nearly  the  fame  quantity 
of  frelh  hdpsi,  and  in  the  fame  manner  as  thofe  in  the 
firft  copper  of  ale-wort  were.    The  reft  for  fmall  beer 
may  be  all  cold  water  put  over  the  grains  at  once,  or  at 
twice,  and  boiled  an  hour  each  copper,  with  the  hops 
that  have  been  boiled  before.    Where  hot  water  cannot 
readily  be  procured  for  m^ing  all  Ac  fecond  copper  of 
wort,  cold  muft  fopply  what  was  wanting.     Out  of  five 
huihels  of  malt,  a  hogihead  of  ale  may  be  made  with  the 
two  firft  cc^pers  of  wort,  and  a  hogihead  of  finall  beer 
widi  the  other  two ;  but  diis  more  or  Ids,  at  pleafiire, 
orfy  taking  care  to  let  each  copper  of  wort  be  ftraincd 
off  through  a  fieve,  and  cool  in  four  or  five  tubs,  to 
prevent  its  foxing.    But  for  ftrong  keeping  beer,  the 
firft  copper  of  wort  may  be  wholly  put  to  that  ufe,  and 
dl  the  reft  finall  beer.    Or,  when  the  firft  copper  of 
Vol,  L  R  »ort 


122  BREWING* 

wort  is  entirely  made  ufe  of  for.ftrong  beer,  it  may  be 
helped  with  more  frefti  malt,  according  to  the  London 
falhion,  and  water,  lukewarm,  put  over  at  firft  with  the 
bowl:  but  foon  after  ftiarp,  or  boiling  water,  which 
may  make  a  copper  of  good  ale,  and  fmall  beer  after 
that. 

In  fomc  parts  of  the  north,  they  take  a  few  cin- 
ders, red  hot,  and  throw  fome  fait  on  them,  to  over- 
come the  fulphur  of  the  coal,  and  then  dire6Uy  thruft 
them  into  the  frelh  malt,  where  they  lie  till  all  the 
water  is  laded  over,  and  the  brewing  done  i  for  there  arc 
©nly  one  or  two  malhings  or  ftirrings,  at  moft,  n^ceflary 
in  a  brewing.  Others,  who  brew  with  wood,  will  quench 
one  or  more  brands  ends  of  afh  in  a  copper  of  wort,  to 
mellow  the  drink,  as  a  burnt  toaft  of  bread  does  a  pot 
of  beer  j  but  it  muft  be  obferved  that  this  muft  not  be 
doiie  with  oak,  fir,  or  any  other  ftrong  fcented  woqd,  left 
it  does  more  harm  than  good. 

In  bottling  Malt  Uquorsy^-T^k^  care  that  your  bottles 
are  well  cleaned  and  dried  -,  for  wet  botdes  will  make  the 
liquor  turn  watery  or  mouldy;  and,  by  wet  botdes,  a 
great  deal  of  good  beer  has  been  fpoiled.  Even  though 
the  botdes  are  clean  and  dry,  if  the  corks  are  not  new 
and  found,  the  liquor  will  be  fliU  liable  to  be  damaged  ^ 
for,  if  the^  air  can  get  into  the  botdes,  the  liquor  will 
grow  fiat,  and  will  never  rife.  Many  have  plumed  them- 
fclves  on  their  faving  knowledge,  by  ufing  old  corks  on 
this  occafion,  and  have  fpoiled  as  much  liquor  as  cofl  them 
four  oi"  five  pounds,  to  fave  the  cxpcnce  of  three  or  four 
Ihillings.  If  bottles  are  corked  properly,  it  will  be  difficult 
to  pull  out  the  cork  without  a  fcrew ;  and,  in  order  to  be 
fure  to  draw  the  cork  without  breaking,  the  fcrew  ought  to 


BREWING.  i^j 

go  through  the  cork ;  of  courfe,  the  atr  will  find  a  paflage 
where  the  fcrew  has  pafled^  and  confequently  the  cork  mull 
have  been  ipoiled.  If  a  cork  has  once  been  in  a  botde> 
though  it  has ,  not  been  drawn  with  a  icrew,  yet  that 
cork  will  turn  mufty  as  foon  as  it  is  expofed  to  the  air, 
and  will  communicate  its  ill  flavour  fo  the  bottle  in  which 
it  is  next  put,  and  fpoil  the  liquor  that  way.  In  the 
choice  of  corks,  prefer  thofe  that  are  foft  and  free  from 
fpecks. 

When  once  you  begin  to  botde  a  veffel  of  liquor, 
never  leave  it  till  it  is  completed,  otherwile  it  will  bear 
(iiflerent  taftes. 

When  a  veflel  of  any  liquor  begins  to  grow  flat,  while 
it  is  in  common  draught,  bottle  it,  and  into  every  bottle 
put  a  {tndil  bit  of  loaf  fugar,  or  two  or  three  raifins> 
which  will  make  it  rife  and  come  to  itfclf j  and,  to  fbr- 
•  wani  its  ripening,  you  may  fet  fome  bottles  in  hay  in  a 
warm  place;  butflraw  will  not  affift  its  ripening. 

To  recover  a  barrel  of  beer  that  has  turned  four.  To  a 
kilderkin  of  beer,  throw  in  at  the  bung  a  quart  of  oat- 
meal, lay  the  bung  on  loofe  two  or  three  days,  then  flop  j 
it  down  dofe,  and  let  it  ftand  a  month.  Some  threw 
in  a  piece  of -'chalk  as  large  as  a  turkey's  egg,  and  when 
it  has  done  workings  (lop  it  clofe  for  a  month ;  then 
top  it.  .  . 
To  recover  a  mufly  cafk.  Boil  fome  pepper  in  water, 
and  fill  the  caflc  with  it  fcalding  hot. 

An  excellent  compofttion  for  keeping  beer  with.  Take  a 
quart  of  French  brandy,  or  as  much  Englifh,  that  is  free  i 

from  any  burnt  flavour,  c«"  other  ill  tafte,  and  is  k\\\  proof;  \ 

to  this  put  as  much  wheat  or  bean  flour  as  will  knead  it 
Wo  dough,  piit  it  in  long  pieces  into  the  bung-hole>  asi 

'      R  2  foon 


114?  BREWING; 

ibon  as  the  beer  has  done  workings  or  afterwards, 
let  it  gently  fallj  piece  by  piece,  to  the  bottom  of  tho 
buL  This  will  maintain  the  drink  in  a  mellow  frefhnefsj^ 
keep  ftsdeneis  ofF  for  fbme  tim%  and  caufe  it  to  be  die 
ftronger  as  it  g^ows  aged. 

Another  way.  Take  a  peck  of  egg-lhells,  and  dry 
them  in  an  oven,  break  and  mix  them  with  two  pounds 
of  fat  chalk,  and  mix  them  with  water,  wherein  four 
pounds  of  coarfc  fugar  have  been  boiled,  and  put  into 
the  but 

To  fiop  the  fret  in  malt  liquors.  Take  a  quart  of  Wack 
dierry  brandy,  and  pour  it  in  at  the  bung- hole  of  the 
koglhead,  and  ftop  it  clofe. 

So  recover  deadijb  beer.  When  ftrong  ak,  or  beer, 
grows  flat,  by  the  lofs  of  its  fpirits,  take  four  or  five 
gallons  out  of  a  hogfliead,  and  boil  it  with  five  pounds 
ii  honey ;  ikim  it,  and,  when  cold,  put  it  to  the  reft, 
and  ftop  it  dofe.  This  will  make  it  pleafant,  quick,  and 
firong. 

^9  fine  malt  liquors.  Take  a  pint  of  water,  and  half 
an  ounce  of  unflacked  lime,  mix  diem  well  together ; 
lee  it  ftand  three  hours,  and  the  lime  will  fettle  to  the 
bottom,  and  the  water  be  as  clear  as  glais.  Pour  the 
waticr  from  the  fediment,  and  put  it  into  your  ale  or 
been  Mix  it  with  half  an  ounce  of  ifinglafs,  firft  cut 
ihiall  and  boiled,  and  in  five  hours  time,  or  lefs,  the 
beer  in  the  barrel  will  fettle  and  clear. 

To  fine  ally  fort  of  drinks  Take  the  beft  ftaple  ifmgktfs ; 
cut  it  finall  with  fcil&rs,  and  boil  one  ounce  in  du^ee 
quarts  of  beer ;  let  it  lie  all  night  to  cool.  Thus  dif- 
Iblved,  put  it.  into  your  hogfliead  the  next  morning, 
perfedUy  cold^  for,  if  it  is  but  as  warm  as  new  milk, 

it. 


BROCCOLI,  115 

U  wUt  jdly  nU  ^  drink.  The  beer,  or  ale>  in  a  week 
^k^Ty  (bould  be  capped^  or  will  l^  apt  to  flat ^  fbrthis 
Vigredieni:  flats  as  well  as  fines.  R-eoiember  to  fttr  it 
ipell  with  a  wooden  padjcU^j^  when  the  iflo^^  is  Dut  into 
like  caik. 

Jtiqiher  tm^  Bofl  a  piat  of  wheat  in  two  quarts  of 
water,  then  fqueeze  out  the  liquid  part,  through  a  fine 
linen  cloth.  Put  a  pint  of  if  into,  a  kildprkin^  }t  noc 
only  fines,  but  preferyes. 

7b  cure  cloudy  beer.  Rack  off  your  but>  then  boil 
two  pounds  of  new  hops  in  a  fulHcient  quantity  of  wa* 
tcr,  with  a  due  proportion  of  coarfe  fugar>  and  put  all 
together  into  the  cade  when  cold.  Others  have  attenr^ted 
this  cure^  by  only  fbaking  new  hops  in  beer,  which, 
when  iqueezedx  they  put  into  a  caik  of  cloudy  beer. 


Mi 


BROCCOLI. 

To  drefs  Broccoli.  Firft  ftrip  off  all  the  litde  branches^ 
till  you  come  tt>  the  top  one,  and  then,  with  a  knife,  ped 
oflF  the  hard  outfide  Ikin  that  is  on  the  ftalks  and  litt^ 
branches ;  throw  them  intx>  water.  Have  ready  a  (lew- 
pan  of  boiling  water,  with  a  litde  fait  in  it,  in  which  boil 
your  broccoli  till  the  ftalks  are  tender.  Lay  a  piece  of 
roaflred  tM'ead,  foaked  in  the  water  your  broccoli  wa$ 
bmlcd  in,  at  the  bottom  of  the  difh,  and  the  broccoli 
thereon,  as  you  do  afparagus.  Serve  them  up  with 
plain  meked  butter.    * 

Broccoli  witif  Eggs.  Beil  your  broccoli  tender; 
then  toaft  a  (lice  of  bread  as  large  as  you  would  have  it 
for  your  di(h  or  butter  plate  -^  and  butter  fome  eggs  \n. 

thfr 


ii6  BROTH. 

the  following  manner: — Beat  as  many  |8  you  have.occa«« 
lion  for  very  welU  and  put  them  into  a  faucepan,  with 
a  good  piece  of  butter  and  a  little  fait ;  keep  beating 
them  with  a  fpoon  till  they  are  thick  enough,  then  pour 
them  on  the  toaft.  Set  die  largeft  bunch  of  broccoli  in 
the  middle,  and  the  lefler  ones  round  about,  garnilhing 
the  difli  with  litde  fprigs  of  broccoli.  This  is  a  pretty 
fidc-difh,  or  for  a  ligjit  fupper. 


BROTH 

In  general  is  the  liquor  in  which  flefli  is  boiled ;  hue 
l;>roths  are  fometimes  given  ^  reftorativc  medicines,  as 
well  .gs  .for  a  table  difh. 

Broth,  generally  called  the  Stock.  Take  eight  pounds 
of  lean  beef,  an  old  hen,  a  knuckle  of  veal,  and  a  fcrag 
of  mutton  J  put  to  them  three  gallons  of  water,  boil,^ 
and  fkim  it  very  clean ;  add  to  it  fix  heads  of  celery,  fix 
onions,  fix  carrots^  four  parley  roots,  four  leeks,  four 
cloves,  a  few  pepper-corns,  and  a  litde  lilti  let  it  boil 
5gwly  fix  hours,  then  ftrain  it  off,  and  keep  it,  for  ufe. 

Of  this  Stock  you  may  m^c  all  kinds  of  broth  or 
foi^. 

Chicken  Broth.  Skin  a  fmall  chicken,  cut  it  in 
four  pieces,  put  it  in  a  ftew-pan  with  one  quart  of  wa- 
.ter,  two  or  three  blades  of  mace,  a  few  white  pepper- 
jporns,  and  a  fmall cruft  of  bread;  boil,  and  fkim  it  clean, 
gently  for  three  quarters  of  an  hour ;  therx  ftrgin,  an4 
fervc  it  up  in  a  bafon  with  a  dry  toaft. 

Be£F  Broth.  Break  the  bone  of  a  leg  of  beef  in 
two  or  thiee  places,  put  it  into  a  gaUqn  of  water,  two  cff 

three 


\ 


\ 


BROTH.  Hi 

Arete  blades  of  mce,  a  little  parfley,  and  a  crufl:  of 
bread  jr  boil  the  beef  very  tender,  ftrain  the  broth,  and 
pour  it  into  a  tureen ;  if  agreeable,  the  meat  nriay  be  put 
b  vith  it*  Toaft  fome  bread,  cut  it?  into  fquares,  and 
put  it  in  a  plate.  ^ 

Strong  Beef  Broth  to  keep  for  ufe.  Take  part  of  a 
kg  of  beefi  and  the  fcrag_  end  of  a  neck  of  mutton, 
break  the  bones  in  pieces,  and  put  to  it  as  much  water  ^ 

as  will  cover  it,  and  a  little  fait ;  and  when  it  boils,  (kim 
it  dean,  and  put  into  it  a  whole  onion  ftuck  with  cloves, 
a  bunch  of  fweet  herbs,  fome  pepper,  and  a  nutmeg 
quartered.  Let  thcfe  boil  till  the  meat  is  boiled  in  pieces, 
and  the  ftrength  drawn  out  of  it.  Strain  it  out,  and  keep 
it  for  ufe* 

Jelly  Broth.  Put  in  your  pot  or  fteW  pan  flices  of 
beef,  a  fillet  of  veal,  a  fowl,  one  or  two  partridges,  ac-  J 

cordbg  to  the  quantity  required ;  put  it  on  the  fire  till  it 
catches  a  litde,  and  turn  the  meat  now  and  then  to  give 
it  a  proper  colour;  then  add  fome  good  clear  boiling 
broth,  and  fcaldcd  roots,  as  carrots,  turnips,  parfhips, 
parfley-roots,  celery,  large  onions,  a  few  cloves,  a  fmall 
bit  of  nutmeg,  and  fome  whole  pepper ;  boil  it  upon  a 
flow  fire,  about  four  or  five  hours  widi  attention,  and  add 
a  few  doves  of  garlic  or  ftialot,  a  fmall  faggot  or  bunch 
of  parfley  and  thyme  tied  together ;  -when  it  is  of  a  good 
colour,  fift  it}  it  lerves  for  fauces,  and  to  add  fb-cngth  to 
your  foups,  particularly  thofe  made  of  herbs. 

Spring  Broth.  Put  a  cruft  of  bread,  and  a  good 
bit  of  btitter,  in  a  foup-pot,  or  ftewpan  ;  two  or  three 
•handfuls  of  herbs,  as  beet,  fgrrel,  chervil,  lettuce,  leeks, 
andpurflain,  all  walhed  and  coarfcly  chopped.  Boil  in 
a  quart  of  water  till  reduced  to  half  s  fift  ft  for  ufe. 

I  V&AL 


/ 


ii«  B    R    O    T    tt. 

Veal  Broth.  Take  a  knuckle  of  veal,  ftew  it  ill 
about  a  gallon  of  water,  two  ounces  of  rice  or  vermicelfi^ 
a  litde  fait,  and  a  blade  of  mace. 

Scotch  Barley  Broth^^  Chop  a  leg  of  beef  all  to 
pieces,  boil  it  in  three  gallons  of  water,  with  a  piece  of 
carrot,  and  a  cruft  of  bread,  till  it  is  half  Y)oiled  away  5 
then  ftrain  it  off,  and  put  it  into  the  pot  again,  with  half 
a  pound  of  bstrley,  four  or  five  heads  of  celery  waihed 
clean  and  cut  fmall,  a  large  onion,  a  bundle  of  fweet 
herbs,  a  little  parfley  chopped  fmall,  and  a  few  mari« 
golds.  Let  it  boil  an  hour.  Take  an  old  cock,  or  a 
large  fowl,  clean  picked  and  Waihed,  and  put  it  into  the 
pot;  boil  It  till  the  broth  is  quite  good ;  then  fealbn  it 
with  fait,  and  fend  to  (able,  with  the  fowl  in  the  middle* 
This  brodi  is  very  good  without  die  fowl.  Take  out 
the  onion  and  fweet  herbs,  befiw-e  you  fend  it  to  table. 

This  broth  is  very  good,  when  made  with  a  fheep^s 
head  inftead  of  a  leg  of  beefi  but  you  muft  chop  the 
head  all  to  pieces. 

Mutton  Broth,  Cut  a  neck  of  mutton,  about  fix 
pounds  weight  in  two,  and  bgil  the  fcrag  in  about  four 
quarts  of  water ;  Ikim  it  well,  and  put  in  a  little  bundle 
of  fwcctherbs  and  an  onion  \  having  boiled  it  an  hour,  put 
in  the  other  part  of  the  mutton,  a  turnip  or  two,  feme 
dried  marigolds,  a  few  chives,  and  a  little  parfley  chopped 
fine  J  put  thefc  in  a  quarter  of  an  hour  before  your  broth 
is  enough,  and  ieafbn  it  with  falt^ 

Some  chufc  to  thicken  their  broth  with  barley,  rice, 
oatmeal,  or  bread  5  and  (bme  (eafon  it  with  mace,  inftead 
of  fweet  herbs  and  onions.  If  turnips  are  ufed,  they 
ihould  not  be  all  boUed  in  die  fame  pot  with  the  meat, 

but 


B  k  o  ir  tt,  fS9 

but  in  a  Separate  laucepan.    The  fcrag  is  fddom  fer- 
vedup. 

Broth  Cakbs.    Put  ten  or  twelve  pounds  of  beef  in 
a  glazed  earthen  pot^  fkim  it^  and  put  in  a  cock  or  an 
old  hen,  two  of  three  pounds  of  a  leg  of  veal^  or  a  calPs 
foot ;  feafon  the  whole  with  whole  white  pepper,  cloves, 
said  mace,,  a  finall  quantity  of  each}  let  your  meat  boil 
llowly,  about  eight  or  ten  hours ;  and  then  ftrain  your 
broth  through  a  fievcr  or  a  napkin,  to  extraft  ail  the 
gravy  i  take  off  the  fat,  and  let  the  broth  fettle  till  next 
day  i  after  which  put  it  again  into  an  earthen  pot^  and 
kt  k  ftew,  till  it  be  as  thick  as  fyrup.     This  being  done, 
put  it  into  an  earthen  difh,  and  let  it  dry  thoroughly  on 
hoc  cinders  or  fand,  or  in  an  bven  moderately  hot     In* 
ftead  of  an  earthen  difh,  you  may  take  tin  patty-pans, 
iquare  or  round,  of  the  bigncfs  of  half-a-crowns  your 
preparation  being  ftiiF,  take  it  out  of  the  diih  or  patty* 
pans,  •  put  it  into  a  hair  fieve,  and  in  a  place  that  is  al- 
ways warm  i  be  careful  to  turn  it  now  and  then;  when 
it  is  dreflcd,  put  it  in  a  tin  box,  with  paper  between 
every  two  cakes;  keeo  them  in  a  dry  place.    When  you 
make  ufc  of  thefe  caKcs,  boil  fome  water;  and,  when 
boiling,  put  in  as  many  as  you  think  fit,  according  to 
the  quantity  of  broth  you  defign  to  make*    One  cake 
is  enough  for  a  bafon  of  broth. 

Restorative  Broths,  for  CoilsuKiPtioNS,  &c* 

I.  Take  a  capon,  picked,  drawn,  and  cut  into  pieces; 
fheep's  trotters  and  calves'  feet,  four  of  each;  Ihavings 
of  hartihorn,  one  ounce;  raifins  diced  and  ftoned,  a 
quarter  of  a  pound;  pearl  barley,  one  ounce ;  boil  thefe 
in  a  gallon  of  water,  until  half  reduc^,  then  add  leaves 

Vol,  L       ^  S  of 


t  j<5        -   d  R  o  T  h: 

of  coIt*s-fbot,  maiden-hail-,  -and  (age,  each  a  handful; 
mace,  half  a  dram ;  one  nutmeg,  and  a  pint  of  Malaga 
fack*     Strain  out  the  liquor  for  ufe. 

II.  Take  conferve  of  red  roles,  four  ounces ;  com- 
frey-root,  two  ounces;  Ihavings  of  hartlhom,  one  ounce; 
maiden-hair>  a  handful;  fage,  two  handfuls;  plantain, 
one  half-handful ;  and  two  ounces  of  raifins  of  the  fun  ; 
—boil  thefc  together  with  a  chicken  and  the  fcrag-end 
of  a  neck  of  mutton  chopped  to  pieces,  and  three  ounces 
of  bread,  in  a  fufficient  quantity  of  Ipring  water : — 
when  cold,  take  off  the  fat. 

III.  Take  one  hundred  cray-fifh,  bruife  them  to  pieces 
alive  in  a  mortar,  and  boil  them  in  a  quart  of  Ipring 
water  to  a  pint  and  a  half;  adding,  towards  the  laft,  two 
blades  of  mace,  one  nutmeg,  and  a  pint  of  old  Malaga 
wine ;  then  ftrain  for  ufe. 

IV.  Take' the  tails  of  twenty  dray-filh;  candied 
cringo-root,  one  ounce;  the  bottom  of  a  white  loaf; 
raifins  diced  and  ftoned,  two  ounces;  liquorice,  one 
•ounce;  boil  in  three  pints  of  water  to  two,  and  (bain 
for  ufe. 

Any  of  thefe  may,  as  particular  circumflances  or  the 

appetite  direft,  be  made  ufe  of  to  reflore  perfbns  recover- 

^  ing  from  long  wafting  diflempers,  and  wherever  a  con- 

fumption  is  threatened ;  for,  where  the  ftomach  is  weak, 

.  it  cannot  digefl  folid  and  grofs  food,  and  therefore  a  diet 

of  rich  nouriihment  is  required,  that  needs  but  litde 

trouble  to  affimilate  and  diftribute  it  to  the  feveral  parts 

^  of*  the  body,   to  recruit  what  has  been  worn  away.     In 

'Sieftic  habits  thefe  arc  of  great  fervice, '  becaufe  they 

'  help  to  give  a  confiflence  and  foftnefs  to  tiiie  humours, 

whereby  they  neither  run  fd  fafl  in -the  canals,  nor  wafh 

%  'away 


3  R  U  I.S  E  S,  iji 

away  with  them  the  fiibftance  of  the  parts,  and  which 
inakes  them  on  the  contrary  leave  good  npurilhment 
behind. 


\ 


BRUISES. 

Bruifes  are  generally  produftive  of  worfe  confequences 
than  wounds*  The  danger  from  them  does  not  appear 
immediately,  by  which  means  it  often  happens  that  they 
are  negle&ed.  It  is  needlefe  to  give  any  definition  of  a 
difeaie  fo  tiniverfally  known ;  we  fhall  therefore  proceed 
to  point  out  the  method  of  treating  it. 

In  flight  bruifes  it  will  be  fufficient  to  bathe  the 
part  with  warm  vinegar,  to  which  a  little  brandy  or 
Ipirits  of  wine  may  be  occafionally  added,  and  to  keep 
cloths  wet  with  the  mixture  conft^ntly  applied  to  it. 
This  is  more  proper  than  rubbing  it  with  brandy,  Ipirits 
of  wine,  or  other  ardent  IpiritS;^  which  are  cqnamonly 
ufed  in  fuch  cafes. 

In  Ibme  parts  of  the  country  the  peafants  apply  to  a 
recent  bruife  a  poultice  of  frefh  cow-dung.  Dr.  Bu- 
chan  fays,  he  has  often  feen  this  cataplafm  applied  to  vio- 
lent contufions  occafioned  by  blows,  falls,  bruifes,  and 
fuch  like,  and  never  knew  it  fail  to  have  a  good  efFeft.  . 

When  a  bruife  is  very  violent,  the  patient  ought  im- 
mediately to  be  bled,  and  put  upon  a  proper  regimen. 
His  food  fhould  be  light  and  cool,  and  his  drink  wta^ 
and  of  an  opening  nature  j  as  whey  fweetened  with  honey^ 
deco<9:ions  of  tamarinds,  barley,  cream-tartar  whey, 
and  fuch  like.  The  bruifed  part  mufl  be  bathed  with 
vinegar  9n4  w^ter,  ^  diredted  above  s  and  a  poultice 

S  %  macfc 


132  .  BRUISES. 

made,  by  boiling  crumb  of  bread,  elder  flowers,  and  ca- 
momiilc  flowers,  in  equal  quantities  of  vinegar  and  water, 
applied  to  it.  Tjiis  poultice  is  peculiarly  proper  when  a 
wound  is  joined  to  the  bruife.  It.  may  be  renewed  tWQ 
or  three  times  a  day. 

A*,  the  ftrufture  of  the  veflTels  is  totally  deftroyed  by  a 
violent  bruife,  there  often  enfues  a  great  lofs  of  fuhftancc, 
which  produce^  an  ylcerous  fore  very  difficult  to  cur?. 
If  the  bone  be  aflTedted,  the  fore  will  not  heal  before  the 
difeafed  part  of  the  bone  feparates,  and  comes  out 
through  the  wound.  This  is  often  a  flow  operation,  and 
may  even  require  fcveral  years  to  be  completed.  Hence 
it  happens,  that  thefe  fores  are  frcquendy  miflaken  for 
the  King's  eyil^  and  treated  ^  fuch,  though  in  fa6t,  they 
proceed  folely  frorn  the  injury  which  die  folid  parts  re- 
ceived from  the  blow. 

Patients  in  this  fituation  are  pefl:ered  with  different  ad- 
vices. Every  one  who  fees  them  propofes  a  new  reme- 
dy, till  the  fore  is  fo  much  irritated  with  various  and  op- 
pofite  applications,  that  it  is  often  at  length  rendered  ab- 
fol^tely  incurable.  The  beft  method  of  managing  fuch 
fores  is  to  take  care  that  the  patient*s  confti^utiou  docs 
pot  fuffer  by  confinement,  or  improper  medicine^^  and  to 
apply  nothing  to  them  but  fome  fimple  ointment  fpread 
upon  foft  lint,  over  which  a  poultice  of  bre^  and  milk, 
with  boiled  camomile  flowers,  or  the  like^^  may  be  put, 
to  nourifli  the  part,  and  keep  it  foft  and  warm.  Nature^ 
thus  aflifted,  will  generally  in  time  operate  a  curt,  by 
throwing  dS  the  difeafed  parts  pf  the  bone,  after  whicj^ 
the  fore  foon  heals. 


I 

I 


# 


8  U  R  N  S, 


[    133    1 

B  U  R  N  S. 

In  flight  burns  which  do  noc  break  the  flcin,  ir  id  caC- 
tomary  to  hold  the  part  near  the  fire  for  a  competent 
time,  to  rub  it  with  fait,  or  to  lay  a  comprefs  upon  it 
dipped  in  fpirits  of  wine  or  brandy.  But  when  the  bum 
has  penetrated  fo  deep  as  to  blifter  or  break  the  (kin,  ic 
muft  be  drefled  with  fome  of  the  liniment  for  burns  y 
(See  Uniment.)  or  with  the  emollient  and  gendy  dry- 
ing ointn[)ent,  commonly  called  burner* s  cerate.  This 
may  be  mixed  with  an  equal  quantity  of  frelh  olive  oil, 
and  fpread  upon  a  foft  rag,  and  applied  to  ^e  part  af- 
fc&ed.  When  this  ointnient  cannot  be  had,  an  egg  may 
be  beat  up  with  about  an  equal  quantity  of  the  fweetefl:  ' 

iakd  oil.     This  will  ferve  very  well,  till  a  proper  oint-  1 

mcnt  can  be  prepared.  When  the  burning  is  very 
deep,  after  the  firft  iwo  or  diree  days,  it  Ihould  be  drefled 
with  equal  parts  of  yellofiv  bafilicum  and  Turner^ s  cerate 
mixed  together. 

When  the  bum  is  violent,  or  has  occafioned  a  high 
degree  of  inflammation,  and  diere  is  reafon  to  fear  a 
mordflcadon,  the  fame  means  muft  be  ufed  to  prevent  it 
as  are  recommended  in  other  violent  inflammations* 
The  patient,  in  this  cafe,  muft  live  low,  and  drink  fi-eely 
of  weak  diluting  liquors ;  he  muft  likcwife  be  bled, 
and  have  his  body  kept  open.  But  if  the  burnt  parts 
Ihould  become  livid  or  black,  with  other  fymptoms  of 
mordfication,  it  will  be  neceflary  to  bathe  them  frequent- 
ly with  warm  camphorated  fpirits  of  wine,  tinfhire  of 
myrrh,  or  other  antifeptics,  mixed  with  a  deco£tion  of 
the  bark.  In  this  cafe  the  bark  muft  likewife  be  taken 
internallyj  and  the  patient's  diet  niuft  be  more  generous, 

JUTTED- 


C    '3+    ] 
BUTTER 

• 

Is  a  fat,  unftuous  fubftancc  prepared  from  milk  hy 
heating  or  churning. 

Frefli  butter  which  has  undergone  no  change,  hasf 
fcarcely  any  fmell ;  its  tafte  is  mild  and  agreeable,  it  meltft 
with  a  weak  heat,  and  none  of  its  principles  are  difenga-> 
ged  by  the  heat  of  boiling  water. 

Butter  is  conftantly  ufed  in  food,  from  its  agreeable 
tafte  i  but  to  be  wholefome,  it  muft  be  very  freih  and 
free  from  rancidity,  and  alfo  not  fried  or  burnt ;  otherwife 
its  acrid  and  even  cauftic  acid  being  difengaged,  hurts 
digeftion,  renders  it  difficult  and  painful,  excites  hot,  four 
bekhings,  and  introduces  much  acrimony  into  the  blood. 
Some  perfons  have  ftomachs  fo  delicate,  that  they  are 
even  affected  with  thefe  inconveniences  by  frefti  butter 
and  milk.  This  obfervation  is  alfo  applicable  to  oil,  fet, 
chocolate,  and  in  general  to  all  oleaginous  matters. 

For  the  making  of  butter :  when  it  has  been  churned,i 
open  the  churn,  and  with  both  hands  gather  it  well  toge- 
ther, take  it  out  of  the  butter  milk,  and  lay  it  into  a  very 
clean  bowl,  or  earthen  pan,  and  if  the  butter  be  defigned 
to  be  ufed  fweet,  fill  the  pan  with  clear  water,  and  work 
the  butter  in  it  to  and  fro,  till  it.  is  brought  to  a  firm 
confiftence  of  itfelf,  without  any  moifture.  When  this 
has  been  done,  it  muft  be  fcotched  and  diced  over  with 
the  point  of  a  knife,  every  way  as  thick  as  poffible,  in 
order  to  fetch  out  the  fmalleft  hair,  mote,  bit  of  rag, 
ftrainer,  or  any  thing  that  may  have  happened  to  fall 
into  it.  Then  fpread  it  thin  in  a  bowl,  and  work  it  well 
together  with  fuch  a  quantity  of  fait  as  you  think  fit,  and 
ixiake  it  up  into  diflies,  pounds,  half  pounds,  &c. 

In 


BUTT  B«.  I3f 

In  the  Georglcal  EJfaySy  vol  v.  page  209,  we  have  the 
following  method  of  making  well-tafted  butter  from  the 
milk  of  cows  fed  on  turnips.  "  Let  the  bowls,  either 
lead  or  wood,  be  kept  conftantly  clean,  and  well  fcalded 
with  boiling  water  before  ufing.  When  the  milk  is 
brought  into  the  dairy,  to  every  eight  quarts  mix  one 
quart  of  boiling  water ;  then  put  up  the  milk  into  the 
bowls  to  ftand  for  cream." 

No  butter  is  efteemed  equal  to  that  which  is  made  in 
the  county  of  Eflex,  well  known  by  the  name  of  Epping 
butter.  The  following  direftions  concerning  the  making 
and  management  of  butter,  including  the  Epping  me* 
diod,  are  extrafted  from  the  third  volume  of  the  Batb 
Society  Papers. 

In  general  it  is  to  be  obferved,  that  the  greater  the 
quantity  made  from  a  few  cows,  the  greater  will  be  the 
former's  profit ;  therefore  he  fhould  never  keep  any  but 
what  are  efteemed  good  milkers.  A  bad  cow  will  be 
equally  expenfive  in  her  keep,  and  will  not,  perhaps^ 
(by  the  butter  and  cheefe  that  is  made  from  her)  bring 
in  more  than  from  three  to  fix  pounds  a  year  j  whereas 
a  good  one  will  bring  from  (even  to  ttn  pounds  per  an* 
num ;  therefore  it  is  obvious  that  bad  cows  Ihould  be 
parted  with,  and  goofl  ones  purchafed  in  their  room. 
When  luch  are  obtained,  a  good  fervant  ftiould  be  em- 
ployed to  milk  them  j  as  through  the  negledt  and  mif- 
management  of  fcrvants,  it  frequently  happens  that  the 
bcft»cows  are  Ipoiled.  No  farmer  Ihould  truft  entirely 
to  fcrvants,  but  fometimes  ought  to  fee  themfelves  that 
their  cows  are  milked  clean  i  for  if  any  milk  is  fuflSsrcd 
to  remain  in  the  udder,  the  cow  will  daily  give  Icfs,  till 

at 


136  BUTTER* 

at  length  flic  will  become  dry  before  the  proper  timc^ 
and  the  next  feafbn  flie  will  fcarce  give  milk  fufficient  ta 
pay  for  her  keep.  »     , 

It  fbmetimes  happens  that  Ibme  of  a  cow's  teats  may 
be  fcratchcd  or  wounded  as  to  produce  foul  or  corrupt 
milk :  when  this  is  the  cafe>  we  fhould  by  no  means  mix 
it  with  the  fweet  milk,  but  give  it  to  the  pigs  j  and  that 
which  is  conveyed  to  the  dairy  houfe  fhould  remain  in 
the  pail  till  it  is  nearly  cold,  before  it  is  drained,  that  is, 
if  the  weather  be  warm  j  but  in  frofly  weather  it  fhould 
be  immediately  itrained,  and  a  fmali  quantity  of  boiling 
water  may  be  mixed  with  it,  which  will  caufe  it  to  pro- 
duce cream  in  abundance,  and  the  more  fo  if  the  pans  or 
vats  have  a  large  furface. 

During  the  hot  fummer  months^  it  is  right  to  rife 
with  or  before  the  fun,  that  the  cream  may  be  fkimoied 
from  the  milk  ere  the  dairy  becomes  warm ;  nor  fhould 
the  milk  at  that  feafon  fland  longer  in  the  vats,  &c.  than 
twenty-four  hours,  nor  be  fkimmed  in  the  evening  till 
after  funfet.  In  winter  milk  may  remain  unfkimmed 
for  thirty-fix  and  forty-eight  hours ;  the  cream  fhould  be 
depofited  in  a  deep  pan,  which  fhould  be  kept  during 
the  fummer  in  the  coolcft  part  of  the  dairy ;  or  in  a  cool 
cellar,  where  a  free  air  is  admitted,  which  is  flill  better* 
Where  people  have  not  an  opportunity  of  churning  every 
other  day,  they  (hould  fhift  the  cream  daily  into  clean 
pans,  which  will  keep  it  cool,  but  they  fhould  never  fail 
to  churn  at  leafl:  twice  in  the  week  in  hot  weather ;  and 
this  work  fhould  be  done  in  a  morning  before  the  fun 
appears,  taking  care  to  fix  the  churn  where  there  is  a 
•  free  draught  of  air.     If  a  pump  churn  be  to  be  ufed,  it 

may^ 


^  ^  T  T  1  R-  t^ 

jgi9f  he  pldHlpii  a  foot  deq>  jitfo  ;i4:ub  of  cqld  w;tter^  a^d 
fiiDiiId  rcowQ  4ci?  duiii^  th^  wh^le  t;jine  of  chiMTikig, 
whjch  wiM  V«r7  tm^  h  ^4^n  ^  binttor.  ^  ftrop^  fi^MV- 
cid  %rour  will  be  given  tt>  Imttcr^  i^  wc  ckwn  i^  near 
the  fire  as  to  i^egx  die  ^vopd  in  t;he  ymMcr  fisaibn* 

After  the  butter  is  churned,  '^  Q^vi^  be  ainmedSMdIf 
sva(b<4  in  91^7  ^i^fitnt  ivmeif  tU|  iit  is  pcrfe^Uy  cfean* 

a  wmn  jb^  1^  ihfm  k,  and  mi^  k  appear  gce^fy^ 
^  idb^  jt  vUlbe  knpolSUe  (»  dIbtfUGi  die  ^eft  price  ^  it. 
Tbe  4itw^tlMMngm  ufe  4^0  piccM  of  wood  ior  tfack 
l^¥i»tri  jui^  jf  d^  Mfbo  have  a  vciy  hot  hand  ii^ere  to 
imre  fudv  flbqr  jsiifht  ^lotk  die  bttfter  ib  as  tp  oiake  it 
more  fideable. 

9v9cr  «iU  xfi^uise  and  mduce  nooi^  wotking  ito  win* 
Jterifaan  in  fungmer  s  biUt  it  is  j-emarked,  4iiat  iio  peribn 
wbok  2iaa4  is  ^arm  by  naOiice  can  make  ^ood  butter. 

Jm  mwf  parts  of  the  kingdom  they  cobur  their  boc*- 
fgf  ia?wM»b^stihh  ^ddBsot^g  to '^^  and 

it  rarely  happens  that  the  farmers  in  or  near  Epping  ulb 
any  cobur,  but  when  they  do,  it  is  very  innocent  j  they 
procure  fome  found  carrots,  whofe  juice  they  exprefi 
duiough  a  fieve,  and  mix  widi  die  cream  when  it  enters 
the  dium,  which  niakes  it  appear  like  May  butter ;  nor 
do  diey  at  any  time  ufe  much  ^t^  diough  a  little  is 
d>lblutely  necef&ry. 

As  Aqr  fludse  in  .diat  icouoay  wry  ^Me  ahcefe,  16  of 
MffS^  y/Qpy  lioie  ^libey-bytter  is  jsude;  nor,  indeed^ 
fimi4^^  pad<m  make  it,  c^ccopt  for  pMient  u&,  as  it 
mKi  AOt  Ifc^  ;good  moce ihaai  t;Mo4i^4  and  die  wkc^ 
^miJii,mA'»^ftflB^  ^fp^  p<^  widi:  nothing 


S  jft  C!  A  B  B  A  b  k 

feeds  tHcfe  ^er,  nor  will  any  thing  malff  ^crh  fd  deli* 
C2Xfif  ^(^rhite.  At  the  fame  time  it  is  to  be  obfcrvcd,, 
that  no  good  bacon  can  be  made  from  pigs  thus  fatted  ; 
'-^efe  much  butter  is  made,  good  cheefc  for  fcrvants  may 
be  obtained  from  ikinrrmed  milk,  and  the  whey  will  after^ 
wards  do  for  ^ott  pigs. 

Turnips  and  rape  afFefi:  milk  and  butter  j  but  brewer'^ 
.gridns  are  fweet  and  wholcfome  food,  and  will  make  cows 
give  abundance  of  milk ;  yet  the  cream  thereon  will  be 
thin,,  excqpt  good  hay  be  given  at  the  fame  time,  after 
every  meal  of  gr^ns;  Coleworts  and  cabbages  are  alio 
excellent  food  >  and  if  thefe  and  favoys  were  cultivated 
.for  this  purpofe,  the  farmers  in  general  would  find  theic 
account  in  it. 

Butter  Milk,  the  milk  which  remains  after  the  but- 

.ter  is  come  by  churning. ,  Butter-milk  is  efleemed  an 

otcelient  food^  in  the  fpring  efpecially,  and  particularly 

•recommended  in  hedic  fevers.     Some  tnake  curds  of 

butter-milk,  by  pouring  into  it  a  quantity  of  new  milk 

hotr 


•i»MaB>^ 


c. 


;  ■,-<:  A*B  B  AG  E. 

Varieties  of  this  plant  are  cultivated  rathor  for  ojlQxizrf 

iifes  than  medicinal  purpofes,viz.  whitcand  red-cabbag^^ 

:  coleworts,  favoy  cabbages,  &c.     They  are  all  fuppofed 

to  be  hard  of  digeftion,  to  aftbrd.little  nourifliment,  and 

:Xo  produce  wind:^  they. tend  ftrongly* to  putrefiidion,  and 

.IWkinto.tlii^  ftate  io/^ia^t  ihan  almoft  any  oth^  vegeta* 


K^ 


C  A  |i  B  A  G,E.  t3^ 

ble;  when  putrefied,  their  fmdl  is  likewife  the  moft  oft 
fenHyc,  greatly  refembling  that  of  putrefied  animal  fub* 
fiances.  A  deco&ion  of  them  is  faid  io  loofen  the  belly. 
The  white  is  the  mofl  fetid  -,  the  red  mofl  emollient  or 
Jaxative :  a  deco6Uon  of  the  lafl  is  recommended  for 
fofcening  acrimonious  humours  in  *  fbme  difbrders  of  the 
breafty  and  in  hoarfeneis. 

Sliced  cabbage  cafked  up  with  fait,  &c.  becomes  four, 
keeps  long,  is  uffed  in  Germany  at  table  undci^  the  name 
of  four  crout,  and  in  die  army  and  nary  as  an  antifcor- 
butic. 

To  drefs  Cabbage.  Quarter  the  Oabba^e,  and  boil  \t 
in  plenty  of  water  with  a  handful  of  fait;  when  it  is  ten- 
der, drain  it  on  a  fieve,  but  never  prefs  it.  Greens  ought 
always  to  be  boiled  by  themfelves.  Cabbages  and  all* 
ibrts  of  young  fprouts  mufi  be  boiled  in  a  good  deal  of 
Water.  When  the  flalks  are  tender,  or  fall  to  the  bot-* 
torn,  they  are  enough ;  then  take  theni  off  before  they 
lofc  their  colour,  '  Always  throw  fait  into  your  water  be- 
fore you  put  your  greens  in.-  Young  fprouts  you  fend 
to  table  juft  as  they  are,  but  cabbage  is  befl  chop- 
ped and  put  into  a  faucepan  with  a  piece  of  butter,  fKr- 
f  ing  it  about  frv'e  or  fix  minutes,  till  the  butter  is  melted^ 
and  then  fend  it  tb  table; 

Tb  pchU  Red  Cabbage.  Cut  a  fine  red  cabbage  in 
Ain  Ihreds,  put  it  in  a  wide  jar,  flrew  a  handful  of  fait 
over  it,  and  let  it  lie  all  night ;'  next  day  drain  it  on  a 
fieve,  and  put  it  into  a  faucepan  with  a  little  vinegar  % 
IKr  it  over  the  fire  till  it  is  quite  hot  j^  put  it  into  a  jar^' 
pour  the  liquor  from  the  cabbage  into  a  pan,  with  as 
piuch  vinegar  as  will  cover  the  cabbage  \  a  litde  race 

T  ^  gmger^ 


g2Ager,  Csi^  tiSi&i  arid  dov'e  ptj^i  *  fiOfe  Glt-^i,, 
sAd  3  Kt  Off  tfuMj  let  icitoil ttii  mimrfes,  tKdi  pour  k- 
^e^  tin  iiJSkn^s,  andwHftfi  it  is  c6ld,  c6yer  it  oycfr  inth 
filaddtt  jbid  teatfief . 


C  A  K  El 


* 

When  you  are  about  to  make  any  fo#t  of  c^kes,^ 
lake  care  to  haire  all  your  ingre£ent8  ready  befofe. 
you  begin.  Let  your  eggs  be  well  beaten,  and  dot 
not  leave  them  till  tbey  are  finiihed>  otherwife  your 
cakes  will  not  be  fe  li^.  When  you  pot  butcer  in- 
your  cakes,  bp  particularly  capefiil  in  beadng  it  to  a  iuie 
cream  be&re  you  put  m  your  (xjtffT^  or  k  will  not  ka^ 
Ip  good  an  efied  ^  dien  put  in  ike  ingredients  as  the  re^ 
cipes  direft.  Lay  in  your  cake-pair  five  or  fix  double 
of  paper,  batter  it  wdl,  put  in  your  cake^  and  bake  it  in 
a  hot  oven :  but  rice  cakes,  feed  cakes,  or  plum  cakes, 
are  beft  baked  in  wooden  frames  j  hr  when  they  are 
baked  in  tins  or  pots,  the  outfides  of  the  cakes  are  burn- 
^  i  and  they  are  £>  confined,  that  the  heat  cannot  pene* 
trate  into  the  middle,  which  hinders  their  cifing.  When 
your  cakes  are  of  a  light  brown,  cover  theni  with  two^ 
fheetsof  paper,.ftopping  the  oven-  dofe  up  to  ibak  th^m» 
Spanilh,  Portugal,  and  queen  cakes,  and  i^tecaroons^ 
Require  but  a  flow  oven. 

A  FoxrND  G  AK£*  Beat  a  pound  of  butter  in  an  ear^ 
then  pan  with  your  hand  one  way,  till  it  is  like  a  fine 
tliick  cream ;  then  have  ready  twelve  eggs,  but  half  the 
the  whites ;  Beat  them  well,  and  beat  them  up  with, 
the  butter,  a  pound  of  flour  beat  in  it,'a  pound  of  fugar 

and 


^  A  ft  ll  ^  I4I 

KkJ  &  fiN^  <4MM%j^.  BAM  it  &U  ^e^  «9ge8ifef  &#  «| 
kodr  vnxh  if«it  UstMi  ^  tt  ^m  iffcMe^  ^boA »  }sm« 

For  change,  700  may  put  ifl|  H  foi^itA  <f  m^fiStii 
|kan  waflwd  and  w«H  picked. 

llodAds  of  CtjfraAts;  dtrefe  ^dalfff^  6if  i  |>6\IAS  o^  al<< 
attRd*»  bl«ich«di  and  htkt  p^Vft  ibcMt  halfaii  ^^« 
4l^diftn  bi«ief,  »q\«ft«f  of  «  |>a')Md  of  f^aar^  ievMr 
fduf  and  fix  ^hke<f  of  eggs^  <3M  friA  of  «fe$tn^  t*f4f 
po^ds  of  lymt^,  fialf  ^  pite  of  goioid  ale  y^ift;  ftite 
Ae  egg»  and  the  yeaft-  tegetherj  fkain  them ;  fH  th6 
eMat6  on  ^  fke,  mek  <he  better  in  it ;  ftir  in  did  A^ 
OMdi  Md  hitf  ft  pint  of  faciei  ^  of  vrhidfi  ikot^  hH 
fttth^bM  aKhdlnd»  Wfiile  Bett^Ag;  ttvoL  t^tHAtc  the 
iMir,  €ttfMrtc»,  HM  f%)gi(#,  1rha«  ritictM|^  dchrt^,  atnd 
oiKcC  SM  lilBM}^  fti^  dief^  fe  IB6  e#6(»,  1^  iiit  the 

JbHtlat  mif,  J6  a  ^^iffMA  i^  a  htf f  of  firi6 
««U  di^edy  p«fe  fli»  ftMe  ^fhiri^  of  bti^^, 
<)(fttte#9  clf  a  pma  of  eufMAar,  W8ft^d  arid  W«li. 
picked  i  fione  and  flice  half  a  pound  of  raifii^  ^^ft* 
isen  otmcifis  of  fi^  beawa  and  fifted,  aiid  feiMeen 
tggs,  teav}n{(.  ^vAi  &tf  Atf  whites.  ShMd  ^  pc«l  df 
a  hti^  kmoB  exeeoSmf^  fiiiti  th#60  oiin^e*  of  ctnk*. 
dkd  oran^  die  fitMe  ^  UftHtltit  k  t^-fpooOM  of  bea<' 
ttt  niaee,  faiAT  «  fiMftwg  gi-isitcd,  a  t«^  evpfiil  44 
hfandy  «r  white  w)n6»  anid  fedr  %06lnfx(ki  of  oringS- 
ioMT  wafer.  Firft  i<rark  the  butt^,  wkh  fdUf  han^ 
to  a  cteam,  then  beat  yotfr  fogar  wdtt  in>  ^^flc  Vduf 
eggi  for  half  an  hour,  tbe/i  mix  them  with  yelur  nigif 

aiid 


»4ft  CAKES, 

iuid  butter,  ai^d  put  in  your  flour  and  fpices,  Thfli 
whol^  will  take  an  hour  and  a  half  beating.  *  What 
yoar  oven  is  ready,  mix  in  lightly  your  brandy,  fruit 
and  fwcet  meats,  then  put  it  into  your  hoop,  and  bakci: 
4t  two  hpqrs  and  a  hftlf, 

IcEiNG^or  a  Plum  Cake.  Beat  a  pound  and  a  hal£ 
ipf  tf  cbk-f eliiied  fugar,  fift  it  through  a  fine  ficve,  and 
pot  it;  into  a  bQwl,  wi^  the  whites  of  five  eggs  wellr 
whifked,  a  bit  of  gum  dragon  (half  the  fize  of  a  nut-* 
meg)  diflblved  in  rofe  water  5  whilk  it  an  hour,  till  it 
grows  ^yhite  and  thick,  if  ^t  is  thin  it  will  run  off  the 
C^?. .  'When  the  ca^ke  is  baked,  take  it  out  of  the  pan,, 
and  put.it  on  a  tin  j  then  fpread  on  half  of  the  keing 
with  a  knife,  dry  it  in  th^  oven,  ti\ke  it  out^  and  fpread 
on  the  other  half,  then  dry  it  as  before.  This  will, 
ixiake  it  look  much  whiter  than  laying  it  on  at  once.- 

A  common  Seed  Cake,  Take  one  piound  and  a  quar- 
ter of  flour,  and  three  quarters  of  a  pound  of  lump  fu- 
gar pounded,  the  yolks  of  ten  eggs,  and  the  whites  of 
four,  one  pound  of  butter  beat  to  a  cream  with  the 
hand.  Mix  thefe  well ;  add  almoft  an  ounce  of  carra- 
way-feeds  bruifed  j  butter  ^he  pan  or  hoftp'^  lift  fugsw: 
on  die  top,  .  "..     .    < 

A  rich  SeSd  Care,  .  Take  a  pound  of  flour  well 
dried,  a  pound-of  butter,  a  ppund  of  loaf-fugar  htzx, 
and  fifted,  eight  eggs,  two  ounces  of  carraway-feeds, 
one  nutmeg  grated,  and  its  weight  of  cinnamon;  Firfl: 
beat  your  butter  to  a  cream,  then  put  in  your  fugar, 
beat  the  whites  of  your  eggs  half  an  hour,  mix  them 
with  your  fugar  and  butter,  then  beat  the  yolks  half  an 
hour,  put  to  it  the  whites,  beat  in  your  flour,  fpiccs, 
and  feeds,  a  little  before  it  goes  to  the  oven  s  put  it  \f\ 

thtj 


CAKE  ±  143 

the  hoop  and  bake  it  two  hours  in  a  qliidk'  oven,  and 
let  it  Hand  two  hours.  It  will  take  two  hours  beating. 
A  good  Common  Cake*  Take  fix  ounces  of  rice 
flour^  and  the  fame  quantity  of  wheat  flour,  the  yol)cs 
and  whites  of  nine  eggs,  half  a  pound  of  lump  fugar 
pounded  and  fifted,  and  half  an  ounce  of  carraway- 
fceds ;  beat  this  an  hour,  and  bake  it  an  hour  in  ^ 
quick  oven.  This  cake  is  well  calculated  for  children 
ud  delicate  ftomachs^  a£  it  is  very  light,  and  has  no 
t^utter  in  it. 

To  make  a  Bride  Cake.  WaJh,  rub,  and  dry,  (even 
pounds  of  currants  j  take  four  pounds  of  flour,  dry  and 
-fift  it,  fix  pounds  of  frefli  butter,  which  you  will  beat 
up  till  it  comes  to  a  cream,  two  pounds  of  loaf  fugar 
beat  and  fifted  fine  j  blanch  two  pounds  of  almonds, 
pound  them  fine  j  a  quarter  of  an  ounce  of  mace, 
cloves  and  cinnamon,  three  nutmegs,  and  fome  ginger; 
half  a  pint  of  fack,  and  the  fame  quantity  of  brandy  5 
fweatmeats,  fuch  as  candied  orange,  lemon,  and  citron ; 
work  the  butter  well  into  a  cream,  then  put  in  your 
iugar ;  let  the  eggs,  which  muft  be  eight  to  every  pound 
of  flour,  be  beat  well,  and  ftrained  through  a  fieve ;  put 

*  in  your  almonds,  beat  them  well,  then  put  in  the  fack, 
the  brandy,  and  fpices  ;  fliake  the  flour  in  by  degrees. 
When  your  oven  is  ready,  put  in  your  currants  and  fweet- 
meats ;  tic  a  few  flicets  of  paper  at  the  bottom  of  the 
hoop,  but  rub  it  well  with  butter ;  it  will  take  four  hours 
baking." 

Almoki>  Iceing  /or  the  Bride  Cake.  Take  the 
iduces  of  fix  eggs,  a  pound  and  half  of  double  refined 
fi^;ari  beat  >a  ppund^f  Jordan  almonds^  blanch  them, 

•  •  I  and 


14*  iCAfc-E*. 

•II  t^Q^fctj^^  »o4  whii^  it  wdl  for  9a  boiv  ^  two  s  t|wri 
Uy  i^  ovgr  7001  ca1{:c;  md  put  k  in  ;ia  ovMf. 
-  4  V Amnion  Cajs^*  Mix  »  b»o4^}  of  fiwr  with  $, 
plof:  of  goo4  cre»m>  h»]f  3  pottn4  of  ^ef  fi)et»  melu^ 
*0<l  ftftcij,  »  qufurttf  of*  pound  of  fu^r  pow^o",  half 
ja  poijnci  of  j^fi^s  Honed  ^d  chopped^  d^icd  flowers  of 
<>rtii^e,  a  glafs  of  brandy,  a  little  coriander  «nd  (alt ; 
hake  it  a$  all  other  cakei,  itbout  an  hour,  91UI  glaze  9f 
gamilh  it. 

KiQZ  Cm^.  Take  what  qu^ntiqr  of  rice  yoy  jdfaink 
proper^  boil  it  in  good  biofk,  and  fooie  h(^'s-j^  i 
when  it  is  €old>  mix  it  with  as  iwch  <flour  ga  rke>  |i 
good  deal  of  butter^  fame  egg^^  9f4  4alt>  aojike  ag9o^ 
puff-pafle  of  it,  and  inake  cakes  gf  what  ihiipe  juyl 
bignds  you  plcafe  with  it ;  xub  xheoi  ^over  ^^h  f^ggF» 
bdpre  bakjuigy  to  give  them  a  good  A:osloun 

Rics  Cakb  (u»a/ii<r  «e?^.  Beat  :excce4ii\gl7  mt{l 
thirteen  eg^,  half  tthe  whites  l^/a^  ^ut ;  |)t\it  f^  fi^ 
eggs  three  quarters  pf  a  pound 'Ofiqgar^|(t^^e^*4p$9t 
it  well,  then  put  in  c;^ht  ounces  Qfflfic  rflour^  ^thc  JTAQd 
pf  two  lemons  grated,  a  glaii  of  bn^^djjr^  iind  l^lf  jt 
glais  of  orange  w^^r  -,  bake  it  in  a  quick  >aven  hfli^f  jp 
hour. 

Bean  Caus.  Take  weight  fbir  vrQight  of  ^e  fygfLt 
imd  blanched  almonds  cut  i^  long  nacp0w  flices  $  fiioc 
fe«ie  pr^ferved  JWnigc,  Ifinon,  wtd  citron  peej  -,  chm 
beat  the  white  of  a  new-laid  egg,  with  a  little  onangt* 
flpwer  water,  tp#  hiigh  froth  j  p\it  fo  much  of  the  froth 
ii«o:diic  Ai^  as  y^iJil  juft  wet  it,  and  wiikh  the  pQinc  ^f 

jf^JsnoA  i>»M  «p  iSBH'.ailinQafls,  fiii»%itnmA  as  ^^ 

as 


C    A    K    E    S,  i4i 

OS  you  can  upon  a  wafer ;  let  ibme  ambergreafc  be  in 
your  fugar,  and  bake  them  after  the  manner  of  a  man- 
chet. 

Gum  Cakes.  Take  gum  tragacanth,  commonly 
called  gum  drdgon,  let  it  lie  all  night  in  rofe  water,  till 
it  is  diflblved,  have  double  refined  lligar  beaten  and 
fifced,  and  mix  your  gum  and  fugar  together ;  make 
it  up  into  paftci  then  roll  up  fome  plain,  and  fome  with 
herbs  and  flowers ;  all  the  pafte  muft  be  kept  feparate* 
ly,  your  herbs  and  flowers  muft  be  beat  fmall  before 
you  make  them  into  paft«  -,  but  you  may  ufe  the  juice 
of  the  flowers  and  herbs  only;  which  are  generally 
marjoram,  red  rofes,  clove  gillyflowers,  and  blue-bot- 
tle berries,  all  clipped  from  the  white  again,  for  two 
colours  will  not  do  well;  fo  roll  them  up,  and  cut 
them  the  bigncls  6f  a  fixpence,  but  in  what  faihion  you 
pleafe,  minding  that  they  are  rolled  very  thin. 

HoneycombXakes.  Boil  your  fugar  to  a  candy 
height,  then  put  in  your  flowers,  which  muft  be  cut ; 
liave  little  papers  with  four  corners  ready  j  drop  fome 
of  your  candy  on  the  papers,  take  them  oflF  when  ready, 
and  if  they  are  rightly  done,  they  will  look  full  of  holes 
like  honeycombs. 

Lemon  Cakes.  Take  the  beft  coloured  lemons, 
fcrape  out  the  blacks,  and  grate  oflF  the  peel  clean ;  put 
the  peel  into  a  ftrainer,  wet  what  fugar  you  think  will 
ferve,  and  boil  it  to  a  candy  height ;  then  take  it  off 
and  put  in  your  lemon-peel ;  when  it  boils  take  it  oflT, ' 
Iqueefe  in  a  little  lemon  juice,  and  drop  them  on  but- 
tered plates  or  papers  j  you  may  put  in  mulk  or  am- 
bergreafe  if  you  pleafe. 

Vol.  I.  U  Lemon, 


146  CAKES* 

Lemon,  Orange,  and  Flower  Cakes.  Take  iugaf 
finely  fifted,  and  wet  it  with  the  juice  of  orange,  or 
any  flowers  you  fancy ;  there  muft  be  no  more  juice 
than  will  make  your  pafte  ftiff  and  thick  j  fet  it  upon 
the  fire,  when  it  begins  to  boil  drop  it  in  little  cakes, 
and  they  will  come  off  prefently  j  fcurvygrafs  done  thus 
,is  good  againft  the  fcurvy ;  if  it  boils  you  will  fpoil  it. 

ViotET  Cakes.  Beat  your  lugar  wherein  gum  hath 
been  ftecped,  pfit  in  the  violets  and  die  juice,  and  fo 
work  it  well  together  with  fifted  fugar,  and  dry  them 
in  a  ftove. 

Portugal  Cakes.  Put  a  pound  of  flour  into  a 
bowl,  with  ten  ounces  of  butter,  and  ten  ounces  of  loaf 
fugar  pounded,  rub  ft  till  it  is  like  grated  bread  ^  add 
fome  cinnamon,  mace,  and  nutmeg,-  half  a  pound  of 
citron  peel  cut  very  fmall,  two  ounces  of  carraway 
comfits  and  three  quarters  of  a  pound  of  currants  wafti- 
fid  and  dried  with  two  ounces  of  almonds  blanched  and 
cut  in  flices  j  mix  them  well  together  with  the  yolks  of 
fix  eggs  and  the  whites  of  three,  adding  a  little  brandy  -, 
then  drop  them  on  buttered  tins,  the  fize  of  a  crown 
piece,  bake  them  in  a  flow  oven  for  fifteen  minutes ; 
beat  a  little  white  of  an  egg,  do  them  over  with  it,  and 
fift  on  a  little  fine  fugar,  fet  them  in  the  oven  to  dry, 
and  fcrve  thefti  up  with  tea  or  wine. 

They  are  very  nice,  and  much  better  liked  than  ma- 
caroons. 

Another  tuay.  Mix  into  a  pound  of  fine  flour  a  pound 
of  loaf-fugar  beat  and  fifted,  then  rub  it  into  a  pound 
of  pure  fweet  butter  till  it  is  thick  like  grated  white 
bread ;  then  put  to  it  two  fpoonfuls  of  rofe-water,  two 
of  fack,  ten  eggs  ^  whip  them  very  well  with  a  whilk, 

thca 


CAKES.  147 

then  put  into  it  eight  ounces  of  currants,  mixed  all  well 
together ;  butter  the  tin  pans,  fill  them  but  half  full, 
and  bake  them ;  if  made  without  currants,  they  will 
keep  half  a  year.  Add  a  pound  of  almonds  blanched, 
and  beat  with  rofe-water,  as  above,  and  leave  out  the 
flour.     Thefe  are  another  fort,  and  better. 

Spanish  Cakes.  Put  a  pound  of  fine  flour  into  a 
bowl,  add  to  it  half  a  pound  of  loaf  fugar  pounded,  and 
half  a  pound  of  butter,  rub  it  well  together,  then  add 
half  a  pound  of  currants  waihed  and  dried,  the  yolks  of 
five  ^gs,  and  whites  of  three,  witk  ibme  cinnamon, 
jnace^  and  nutmeg  pounded  i  mix  it  lightly  with  a 
wooden  Ipoon,  flour  a  tin,  and  drop  it  on  in  little  cakesj 
then  bake  them  in  a  moderate  ovm  for.  twenty  minutes. 

They  are  very  pretty  for  tea,  and ,  will  keep  a  long 
lime  in  a  dry  place, 

A  Plain  Cake,     Take  two  pounds  and  a  half  of 
flour,  fifteen  eggs,  two  pounds  and  a  half  of  ^butter  beat 
to  a  cream ;  three  quarters  of  a  pound  of  pounded  liigar  5 
bake  it  in  a  hot,  but  not  a  fcorching  oven. 

'  Jm  Almond  Cake.  Take  two  ounces  of  bitter,  and 
one  pound  of  fweet  almonds,  blanched,  and  beat  with 
alitde  rofe  or  orange-flower  water,  and  the  white  of  one 
eggi  half  a  pound  of  fifted  loaf-fugar,  eight  yolks  and 
direc  whites  of  eggs,  the  juice  of  half  a  lemon,  the  rind 
graced ;  bake  it  either  in  one  large  pan,  or  fmall  pans. 

Queen  Cakes.  Take  a  pound  of  (ugar,  beat  and  fift 
it,  a  pound  of  well  drie^  flour,  a  pound  of  butter,  eight 
eggs,  half  a  pound  of  currants  wafhed  and  picked ;  grata 
a  nutmeg,  and  the  fame  quantity  of  mace  and  cinnamon. 
Work  your  butter  to  a  cream,  and  put  in  your  fugar  j 
beat  the  whites  of  your  c^  near  half  an  hoxir,  and  mix 

y  !j  them 


148  G    A    K    E    S, 

them  with  your  fugar  and  butter.  Then  beat  your  yolks 
near  half  an  hour,  and  putr  them  to  your  butten  Beat 
them  exceedingly  well  together,  and  when  it  is  ready  for 
the  oven,,  put  in  your  flour,  fpices,  and  currants.  Sift  a 
little  fugar  over  them,  and  bake  them  in  tins. 

Shrewsbury  Cakes.  Take  half  a  pound  of  butter, 
beat  it  to  a  cream,  then  put  in  half  a  pound  of  flour,  one 
egg,  fix  ounces  of  loaf-fugar,  beat  and  fifted, .  half  an 
ounce  of  carraway-feeds  mixed  into  3t  pafle ;  roll  them 
thin,  and  cut  them  round  with  a  fmall  glafs,  or  little  tins, 
prick  them,  and  hy  them  on  fheets  of  tin,  and  bake 
them  in  a  flow  oven. 

Bath  Cakes.  Taktf  half  a  pound  of  butter,  and  rub 
it.into  a  pound  of  flour ;  add  one  fpoonful  of  good  barm, 
warm  fome  cream,  and  make  it  a  light  pafte,  and  fet  it 
to  the  fire  to  rife.  When  you  make  them  up,  take  four 
ounces  of  carraway-comfits,  work  part  of  them  in,  and 
ftrew  the  rift  on  the  top.  Make  them  into  a  round 
cake,  about  the  fize  of  a  French  roll,  bake  them  on  flieet 
tins,  and  fend  them  in  hot  for  brcakfaft. 

Tunbridge  Wafer  Cakes.  Rub  a  quarter  of  a 
pound  of  butter  into  a  pint  of  flour,  add  three  ounces  of 
moifl:'  fugar,  and  a  few  carraway-feeds ;  wet  it  with  a  lit- 
tle new  milk,  make  them  pretty  ftiS^,  roll  them  out  into 

finall  thin  cakes,  and  bake  them  on  tins,  in  a  flow  oven. 

• 

Little  JiTieCAViE^.  Take  one  pound  of  butter  beaten 
to  a  cream,  a  pound  and  a  quarter  of  flour,  a  pound  qf 
toaf-  fugar  beat  fine,  a  pound  of  currants  clean  waflied 
and  picked,  fix  eggs,  two  ^whites  left  out ;  beat  them 
fine,  mix  the  flour,  fygar,  and  e^s  by  degrees  into  the 
)3atter,  beat  it  all  well  with  both  hands.  Either  make  it 
into  little  cakes,  or  bake  it  in  one. 

Heart 


«   . 


G    A    K    E    S.  149 

•  Heart  Cakes^  Work  a  pound  of  butter  with  th« 
hand  to  a  cream  j  pijt  to  it  a  4ozen  yolks  of  eggs,  arul 
half  the  whites,  well  beaten,  a  pound  of  flour  dried,  -  a 
p^und  of  fifted  lugar,  four  fpoQnftils  of  good  brandy,  and 
^  pound  of  currants  wafhed,  and  dried  before  the  fiir^  . 
As  the  pans  are  filled,  put  in  two  ounces  of  candied 
orange  and  citron  ;  continue  beating  jhe  cakes  till  they 
gp  into  the  oven.  This  <juai>tity  will  fiil  three  dozen  of 
middling  pans. 

Ratafia  Cak;es.     Take  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of 
fweet  almonds,  and  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  bitter  al-  ^ 

monds,  blancH  and  beat  them  fine  in  a  mortar  with  rofe  4 

Water,  to  keep  them  from '  oilmg ;  add  half  a  pound  of 
fine  loaf-lugar  beaten  and  fifted,  and  the  whites  of  two 
eggs  beaten  to  a  light  frotK ;  mix  it  well  together,  put  it  . 
in  a  preferving  pan,  fet  it  over  a  moderate  fire,  ftir  it 
quickly  one  way,  till  it  is  fealding  hot ;  take  it  off,  let  it 
cool,  then  roll  it  into  fmall  cakes,  the  fize  of  half  a  crown, 
Izy  them  on  wafer  paper,  fift  fotn.e  fine  fugar  on  them, 
and  bake  them  in  a  flow  oven. 
Gingerbread  Cakes  or  Nuts.  Take  three  pounds 
\  and  a  half  of  flour,  three  ounces  of  race  ginger  beaten 
I  and  fifted,  three  ounces  of  carraway-  feeds  bruifcd,  and 
three  tjuarters  of  a  pound  of  fugar ;  mix  them  well  toge- 
dier,  make  a  hole  in  the  middle,  melt  three  quarters  of  a 
pound  of  butter  in  a  faucepan,  put  to  k  three  pounds  and 
a  half  of  treacle;  let  it  be  juft  warm,  put  it  into^your 
flour,  with  four  eggs,  beat  it  well  for  half  an  hour  with  a 
wooden  ipoon,  let  be  pi|t  into  it  half  a  pound  of  lemon 
and  orange  peel ;  butter  the  cake  pan,  put  it  in,  and 
bake  it  in  aibaking  oven  two  hours  and  a  half* — You  < 

may 
2 


J50  C  A  L  F's     HEAD. 

jnay  let  ic  (land  to  cool>  then  make  it  into  nuts^  and  bake 
them  oh  tins. 

Nuns'  Cake.  Rub  four  ounces  of  butter  into  one 
quart  of  fine  flour;  add  a  little  yeaft^  three  eggs,  and  as 
much  warm  milk  as  will  make  into  a  light  pafte ;  fet  it 
before  the  fire  to  rife  for  one  hour ;  put  it  into  an  ear- 
then pot  to  bake ;  when  done,  cut  it  in  round  Hices,  buttei* 
'  \t^  and  fcive  it  up  hot  for  breakfaft. 


■■^ 


CALF'S      HEAD. 

'  J'o  bake  a  Calf's  Head.  •  Wafliit  dean  and  divide 
it,  dien  beat  the  yolks  of  three  eggs,  and  with  a  feather 
trace  it  over  the  outfideof  the  head,  then  take  fome  gra- 
ted bread,  fait,  pepper,  nutmeg,  fome  lemon-peel  grated, 
with  fome  f^e  cut  fmjill,  ftrew  this  mixture  over  the 
outfide  of  the  head,  lay  it  in  an  earthen  diih,  JM^d  cover 
the  head  with  fome  bits  of  butter,  put  a  litde  water  iq 
the  difh,  and  bake  it  in  a  quick  oven,  and  when  you 
ferve  it  pour  in  fome  ftrong  gravy,  with  the  brains  firfl: 
boiled  and  mixed  in  it.     Garnifh  widi  lemon. 

If  you  do  not  chufe  the  hrains  in  the  gravy,  put  them 
on  a  plate  with  the  tongue. 

Calf's  Head  boiled.  Wafti  it  very  clean,  beat  up 
the  yolk  of  an  egg,  and  rub  it  over  one  half  die  Ji^ad 
with  a  feather,  then  ftrew  over  it  a  feafoning  of  pepper, 
fait,  thyme,  parfley  chopped  fmall,  flired  lemon-peel, 
grated  bread,  and  a  litde  nutmeg ;  ftick  bits  of  butter 
over  it,  and  fend  it  to  the  oven  ;  boil  the  odier  half  white 
ifl  a  cloth,  put  both  into  a  difh ;  boil  the  t>.rains  in  a  feit; 
of  cloth,  with  a  very  little  parfley  and  a  leaf  or  two  of 

fagej 


CALF'S      HEAD.  151 

lag^  \  when  they  are  boiled,  chop  them  fmall,  and  warm 
thcfti  up  in  a  fauccpan  with  a  bit  of  butteV  and  a  little 
pepper  and  fait ;  lay  the  tongue,  boiled  and  peeled^  in 
the  middle  of  a  fmall  difli,  and  the  brains  round  it ;  have 
in  another  diih  bacon  or  pickled  pork  -,  greens  and  car- 
rots in  another. 

Tojlew  a  Calf's  Head.  FLnft  walh  it,  and  pick  it 
Tcry  clean,  lay  it  in  water  for  an  hour,  take  out  the 
brains,  and  with  a  Iharp  knife  carefully  take  out  the 
bones  and  the  tongue^  but  be  careful  you  do  not  break 
the  meat ;  then  take  out  the  two  eyes,  and  take  two 
pounds  of  veal  and  two  pounds  of  beef  fuet,  a  very  litdc 
thyme,  a  good  deal  of  lemon*peel  minced,  a  nutmdg 
grated,  and  two  anchovies  5  ^hop  aU  very  well  together  5 
grate  two  ftale  rolls,  and  mix  all  together  with  tfie  yolks 
of  four  eggs ;  fave  enough  of  this  meat  to  rnake  about 
twenty  balls ;  take  half  a  pint  6f  frelh  mufhrooms  clean 
peeled  and  wafhedj  the  yolks  of  fix  eggs  chopped,  half  a 
pint  of.  oyfters  clean  walhed,  or  pickled  cockles  j  mix 
all  thefe  together,  but  firft  ftcw  your  oyfters,  put  the 
force-meat  into  the  head  and  clofe  it,  tie  it  tight  with  a 
packthread,  and  put  it  into  a  deep  ftewpan  j  and  put 
to  it  two  quarts  of  gravy,  with  a  blade  or  two  oi 
mace.  Cover  it  clofe,  and  let  it  ftcw  two  hours  ;  in  die 
mean  time  beat  up  the  brains  with  fome  lemon-peel  cut 
fine,  a  litde  parfley  chopped,  lialf  a  nutmeg  grated,  and 
the  yolk  of  an  egg ;  have  fome  dripping  boiling,  fry  half 
the  brains  in  little  cakes,  and  fry  the  balls,  keep  them 
both  hot  by  tlie  fire  ;  take  half  an  ounce  of  tiuffles  and 
morels,  then  ftrain  the  gravy  the  head  was  ftcwed  in, 
put  the  truffles  and  morels  to  it  with  the  liquor,  and  a 
few  mulhrooms  ^  boil  all  togedier,  then  put  in  the  reft: 

of 


[ 


t^  CALF^s     head: 

txf  the  brains  that  are  not  fried^  flew  them  together  for  a 
xninute  or  two,  pour  it  over  the  head,  and  lay  the  fried 
brains  and  balls  round  it.  Garnifh  with  lemon.  You 
tnay  fry  about  twelve  oyftcrs  and  put  over. 

To  roajt  d  Calp^s  Head.  Walfti  the  head  very  clean> 
take  out  the  bcfnes^  and  dry  it  very  well  with  a  cloth  5 
make  a  feafoning  of  beaten  niacej  .pepper,  fait,  nutmegs 
and  cloves,  fome  fat  bacon  cut  very  fmall,  and  fomc 
grated  bread ;  ftrew  this  over  it,  roll  it  up,  fkewer  it 
with  a  fmall  fkewer,  and  tie  it  with  tape ;  roafl  it,  and 
bafle  it  with  butter ;  make  a  rich  veal  gravy,  thickened 
with  butter,  rolled  in  flour.  Some  like  mufhrooms  and 
the  fat  part  of  oyflers,  but  it  is  very  good  without. 

5o  hajh  a  Calf's  Head.  Clean  your  calfs  head 
exceeding  well,  and  boil  it  a  quarter  of  ^n  hour ;  when 
it  is  cold,  cut  the  meat  into  thin  broad  flices,  and  put 
it  into  a  toffing-pah,  with  two  quarts  of  gravy ;  and 
when  it  has  flowed  three  quarters  of  an  hour,  add  to  it 
one  anchovy,  a  little  beaten  mace,  and  kyan  to  your 
tafle,  two  tea-fpoonfuls  of  lemon-pickle,  two  meat 
fpoonfuls  of  walnut  catchup,  half  an  ounce  of  truffles 
and  morels,  a  flice  of  two  of  lemon,  a  bundle  of  fweet 
herbs,  and  a  glafs  of  white  wine  5  mix  a  quarter  of  a 
pound  of  butter  with  flour,  and  put  it  in  a  few  minutes 
before  the  ^  head  is  enough  j  take  your  brains  and  put 
them  into  hot  water,  it  will  make  them  fkin  fooner,  and 
beat  them  fine  in  a  bafon  j  then  add  to  them  two  eggs, 
one  fpoonful  of  flour,  a  bit  of  lemon-peel  fhrcd  fine ; 
chop  fmall  a  little  parlley,  thyme,  and  fage  ;  beat  them 
very  well  together,  flrew  in  a  little  pepper  and  fait, 
then  drop  them  in  little  cakes  into  a  pan  full  of  boiling 
.hog's  lard,  and  fry  them  a  light  brown ;  then  lay  them' 

on 


CALF'S      HEAD.  153 

on  a  ficvc  to'  drain  j  take  your  hafli  out  of  the  pan  with 
a  fifli  nice,  and  lay  it  on  your  difli,  tod  ftrain  your  gra- 
vy over  it ;  lay  upon  it  a  few  mulhrooms,  force-meat 
balls^  the  yolks  of  four  eggs  boiled  hard,  and  the  brain 
cakes.  Garnifh  with  lemon  and  pickles.  It  is  proper 
for  a  top  or  fide  difh. 

^To  hajh  a  Calf's  Head  hT(ywn.  Half  the  head  only 
fliould  be  haihed,  as  a  whole  one  makes  too  large  a  difh ; 
parboil  it ;  when  cold,  cut  it  into  thin  flices,  and  the 
tongue ;  flour  it  pretty  well,  and  put  it  into  a  ftew-pan 
with  fome  good  gravy,  a  quart  or  more,  a  glals  of 
Madeira,  an  anchovy  wiped  and  boned,  a  little  poun- 
ded cloves,  kyan,  a  piece  of  lemon-peel  5  let  thefe  ftcw 
gently  three  quarters  of  an  hour,  then  add  fome  catchupj^ 
a  few  truffles  and  morels,  firft  waHied  j  pickled  or  frcfh 
muflirooms  ;  if  frefh,  a  little  juice  of  lemon;  (lew  thefe 
a  few  minutes ;  add  force-meat  balls  fried,  and  hard 
yolks  of  eggs.  Dip  the  brains  in  hot  water,  (kin  them^ 
beat  them  fine,  and  mix  them  wkh  a  little  grated  lemon* 
peel,  parfley  chopped,  and  favoury  herbs,  favoury  fpicc^ 
kyan,  fait,  bread  crumbs,  and  the  yolk  of  an  egg  ;  fiy 
thefe  in  fmall  cakes  5  garnifh  the  hafh  with  them, 
oyfters  fried,  and  fliced  lemon.  If  for  a  large  company, 
boil  the  other  half  of  the  head,  rub  it  over  with  the  yotk 
of  an  egg,  ftrew  on  bread  crumbs,  with  pepper,  fait,  and 
nutmeg,  grated  lemon-peel,  and  chopped  parfley  5  bafte 
it  before  the  fire,  let  it  be  a  nice  brown,  and  ky  it  on 
the  hafh. 

7i  haJh  a  Calf's  Head  white.  Take  half  a  pint  of 
gravy,  a  gill  of  white  wine,  a  little  beaten  mace,  a  little 
nutmeg,  and  a  little  fak ;  throw  into  your  hafh  a  few 
mufhrooms,  truffles  and  morels,  -firft  parboiled,,  a  few 

Vol,  I.  X  arti- 


154  C  A  L  F"s      H  E  A  D* 

artichoke  1)ottoms  and  afparagus  fx>ps,  (if  they  are  in 
feafbn)  a  large  piece  of  butter  rolled  in  floury  the  yolks 
of  tw6  eggs,  half  a  pint  of  cream,  and  a  fpoonful  of 
n^uihroom  catchup.  Stir  thefe  all  together  till  it  be* 
comes'of  a  tolerable  thicknefs,  and  pour  it  into  the  dilh. 
Lay  the  other  half  of  the  head  as  above  mentioned,  in 
the  middle, 

To  bajh  a  cold  Calf's  Head.  Cut  the  meat  into  flices^ 
flour  it,  put  to  it  a  little  boiled  gravy,  a  little  white  wine, 
Ibme  cream,  a  little  catchup,  white  pepper,  fait,  and 
nutmeg,  $i  few  oyfters,  and  their  liquor,  and  flired  lemon 
peel ;  boil  this  up  gently  together  with  a  few  pickled, 
or  fre£b  mulhrooms  and  a  little  lemon  juice ;  or  lemon 
juice  only.  This  may  be  enriched  with  truffles  and 
morels  ^ar-boiled,  force-meat  balls,  and' hard  eggs* 

■ 

Calf*s  Head  wiibjharp  Sauce.  Take  a  calfs  head, 
being  well  cleaned,  bone  it  as  far  a$  the  eyes,  and  boil 
it  with  fome  pickled  pork  5  when  done,  ferve  both  in 
the  fame  difli  i  boil  half  a  glais  of  vinegar,  as  much 
broth,  chopped  (helots  and  onions  i  fift  it,  add  pepper 
and  fait,  4nd  ferve  it  upon  the  head. 

Calf's  Head  in  Caul  Take  a  calf  s  head,  being 
cleaned  and  boiled,  bone  and  tiim  it,  mince  the  trim-^ 
mings  and  tongue  together  with  a  large  fowl ;  add  tQ 
this  chopped  parfley,  chibbol,  mufhroqms,  ihalots,  pcp- 
perj,  and  fait ;  make  for?e-meat  with  the  brains,  four 
yolks  of  hard  eggs  and  two  raw  ones,  bread  crumbs,  an4 
(:ream  j  lay  fome  of  this  force-meat  upon  the  head,  thca 
the  fillets  as  prepared,  with  the  reft  of  the  force-meat  jj 
then  roll  it  in  the  caul,  and  braze  it  in  whi(e  wine  and 
broth.  When  done,  take  9fF  the  caul,  and  ferve  it  up 
with  good  rich  fau9c« 

To 


To  A-e/s  a  Calf*s  Head  another  wjjr.  Take  a  calfs 
head  with  the  (kin  on,  and  fcald  oflf  all  the  hair^  and  clean 
it  very  well ;  cut  it  in  two,  take  out  the  brains,  boil  the 
head  very  white  and  gender,  take  one  part  quite  off  the 
bone,  and  cut  it  into  nice  pieces  with  the  t6ngue^ 
dredge  it  with  a  little  flour,  and  let  it  ftcw  on  a  flow 
fire  for  about  half  an  hour  in  rich  white  gravy,  made  of 
veal,  mutton,  and  a  piece  of  bacon,  feafon  with  pepper, 
ialt,  onion,  and  a  very  little  mace ;  it  mufli.be  flxained 
oflf  before  the  hafli  is  put  in  it,  thicken  it  with  a  litde 
butter  rolled  in  flour  ^  the  other  part  of  the  head  muil 
be  taken  off  in  one  whole  piece,  ftuflT  it  with  nice  force- 
meat, roll  it  like  a  collar,  and  flew  it  tender  in  gra« 
vy ;  then  put  it  in  thie  middle  of  the  difli,  and  the  hafli 
ail  round.  Garnifla  it  With  force-meat  balls,  fried  oyfters 
luid  the  brains  made  into .  little  cakes  dipped  in  rich 
butter  and  fried^  ^You  may  add  wine>  nK>rels,  truffles^ 
or  what  you  pleaie,  to  make  it  good  and  rich* 

To  i^ill  a  Calf's  Head.  Wafti  your  calf's  head 
flean,  and  boil  it  alnru>ft  enough,  then  take  it  up  and 
hafli  one  half;  the  other  half  rub  over  widi  the  yolk  of 
an  egg,  a  litde  pepper  and  fait,  fl:rcW  over  it  bread 
Crumbs,  parfley  chopped  fmall,  and  a  little  grated 
lemon- peel  5  fet  it  before  the  fircj  and  keep  bailing  it  adl 
the  time  to  n>ake  the  froth  rile*  When  it  is  a  fine  light 
brown,  difli  up  your  hafli,  and  lay  the  grilled  fide  upoii 
it.  Blanch  the  tongue,  flit  it  do\Vn  the  middle,  and  lay 
it  on  afbup  plate ; •  flcin  the  brains,  boil  them  with  a 
litde  fage  and  parfley  j  chop  them  fine^  and  mix  them 
with  fome  melted  butter,  and  a  fpoonful  of  cream  j 
make  them  hpt,  and  pour  them  over  the  tongue  j  ferve 
>diem  up,  and  they  are  fauce  for  the  head* 
!  X  a  Calf's 

i 


156  CALF'S      HEAD. 

Caif's  HzAJy  furprize.  Take  a  calfs  head  with  the 
fkin  on,  and  widi  a  knife  raife  off  the  ikin  with  as  much 
meat  from  the  bone  as  you  can  poflibly  get,  fo  that  it 
may  appeal'  like  a  whole  head  when  ftufFed ;  then  make 
a  force-meat  in  the  following  manner;  take  half  a  pound 
of  veal,  a  pound  of  beef  fuet,  the  crumb  of  a  two-penny 
loaf,  half  a  pound  of  fat  bacon,  beat  them  well  in  a 
mortar,  with  fomc  fweet  herbs  and  parfley  fhred  fine> 
ibme  cloves,  mace,  and  nutmeg,  beat  fine,  fait  and 
ky an  pepper  enough  to  feafon  it,  the  yolks  of  four  eggs 
beat  up  J  and  mixed  all  together  in  a  force-meat ;  ftufF 
the  head  with  it,  and  Ikewer  it  tight  at  each  end;  then 
put  it  into  a  deep  pot  or  pan,  and  put  two  quarts  of 
water,  half  a  pint  of  white  wine,  a  blade  or  two  of  mace, 
a  bundle  of  fwect  herbs,  an  anchovy,  two  Ipoonfuls  of 
walnut  and  muihroom  catchup,  the  fame  quantity  of 
lemon  pickle,  a  little  fait  and  pepper ;  lay  a  coarfe  pafle 
over  it  to  keep  in  the  ileam,  and  put  it  for  two  hours 
and  a  half  in  a  (harp  oven.  When  you  take  it  out,  lay 
the  head  in  a  (bup  diih,  (kirn  off  the  fat  from  the  gravy^ 
and  ftrain  it  through  a  fieve  into  a  ftewpan ;  thicken  it 
with  butter  rolled  in  flour,  and  when  it  has  boiled  a  few 
minutes,  put  in  the  yolks  of  four  eggs  well  beaten,  and 
mixed  with  half  a  pint  of  cream  5  have  ready  boiled  fome 
force-meat  balls,  half  an  ounce  of  truffles  and  morels, 
but  don't  put  them  into,  the  gravy;  pour  the  gravy  over 
the  head,  and  gamifli  with  force-meat  balls,  truffles, 
morels,  and  mufhrooms* 

To  collar  a  Calf*s  Head  to  eat  like  Brawn.  Talce  the 
head  with  the  fkin  and  hair  on,  fcald  it  till  the  hair  will 
come  off,  then  cleave  it  down,  and  take  out  the  brains 
and  the  eyes  i  wafh  it  very  clean,  and  put  it  into  a  pot. 


CALF'S    BRAINS. 


«57 


of  clean  ^^zvcr ;  boil  it  till  the  bones  will  come  out ; 
then  flice  the  tongue  and  ears,  and  lay  them  all  even  ; 
throw  a  handful  of  fait  over  them,  and  roll  it  up  quite 
cloie  into  a  collar,  boil  it  near  two  hours  -,  when  the 
head  is  cold,  put  it  into  brawn  pickle. 

Calf's  Brains  with  Rice.  The  brains  of  two  heads 
are  enough  for  a  good  difh ;  blanch  them,  and  take  off. 
die  little  bloody  fibres,  cut  each  into  two  pieces,  and  fbak 
them  in  a  marinade  *  of  white  wine  and  vinegar,  &c.  for 
an  hoiir ;  boil  your  rice  in  water  a  few  minutes,  flrain  it 
off,  and  ftew  it  in  broth  till  it  is  tender,  with  a  litde  fait 
and  a  bit  of  mace ;  difh  up  the  brains,  and  pour  fome  of 
die  fauce  to  the  rice  $  fquecze  in  a  lemon  or  orange,  and 
pour  over  for  ferving  to  table. 

Calf's  Bkaiss  fried.  Cut  the  brains  in  four  pieces, 
hraze-^  them  about  half  an  hour  in  broth  and  white  wine, 
two  flices  of  lemon,  pepper  and  fait,  thyme,  laurel,  cloves, 
parfley,  and  ihalots ;  then  drain  and  fbak  them  in  batter 
made  of  white  wine,  a  litde  oil,  and  a  litde  fait,  and  fry 
them  of  a  fine  colour ;  you  may  likewife  baflc  thern  with 
eggs  and  bread-crumbs.     Garnifh  with  fi^ied  parfley. 

Calf's  Brains  with  Muftard  Sauce.  The  brains  be- 
ing brazed  as  above,  make  a  batter  with  cullis,  butter, 
and  muflrard ;  bathe  the  brains  in  it,  and  roll  them  in 
bread-crumbs  and  chefefe  i  give  them  colour  in  the  oven, 
or  with  a  falamander,  ferve  upon  cullis  and  muflard. 

Calf's  Chitterlings.  Clean  fome  of  the  largefl  of 
the  calfs  guts,  cut  them  into  lengths  proper  for  pud- 
dings, tie  one  of  the  ends  dofe,  take  fome  bacon^  and 


*  A  marinade  Is  a  kind  of  pickle  to  foak  in. 
f  To  hraze  i$  to  ftcw. 


cut 


*58  CALt*s      EARS. 

cut  it  like  dice,  a  calTs  udder,  and  the  fat  that  comes 
off  the  chitterlings ;  chardons  blanched  and  cut  alio ; 
put  them  in  a  ftewpan,  with  abay-leaf^  falt^  pepper^ 
ihalot  cut  fmall,  (bme  pounded  mace,,  and  Jamaica  pep-- 
per,  with  half  a  pint  or  more  of  milk,  and  let  it  jiift  fim- 
mer ;  then  take  off  the  pan,  and  thicken  it  with  four  or 
five  yolks  of  eggs,  and  fome  crumbs  of  bread ;  fill  the? 
chitterlings  with  this  mixture,  whidh  muft  be  kept  warm, 
and  make  the  links  like  hog's  puddings.  Before  they 
are  fent  to  table,  they  muft  be  boiled  oVer  a  moderate 
fire ;  let  them  cool  in  their  own  liquor.  They  ferve  in 
fummer,  i^Ken  hog^s  puddings  are  not  to  be  had* 

Calf's  Ears  with  Lettuci.  Six  ears  will  do ;  flew 
thena  very  tender ;  and  your  lettuce  muft  be  done  thus : — 
take  as  many  as  you  have  ears,  and  blanch  them  in  water, 
open  the  leaves^  and  put  into  the  middle  of  each  a  bit  of 
bacon,  with  a  clpve  or  two  ftuck  in  each;  clofe  the 
leaves  over,  and  bind  with  packthread  5  put  them  mto 
a  ftewpan  with  a  ladle  of  your  ciiUis,  and  a  little  gravy5 
-  pepper,  fait,  and  a  morfcl  of  ihaloc ;  ftew  thenni  till  very 
tender,  take  your  ears  out,  and  clear  them  from,  greaie, 
and  put  them  to  your  lettuces,  add  the  juice  of  a  lemon5 
^d  ftrve  them  up.  Take  care  your  lettuces  are  pre- 
ierved  whole,  and  laid  between  the  ears.  Lambs^  ears 
may  be  done  the  fame. 

Calf's  Ears  friid.  Braze  the  ears  in  a  ftrong  braze 
to  make  them  tender,  and  make  a  batter  dius  :-^-take  a 
hanc^l  of  flour,  put  it  in  a  bowl  or  ftewpan,  add  one 
egg,  and  a  little  fait ;  mix  with  as  much  fmall  beer  aa 
will  make  it  of  a  proper  confiftence,  then  add  about  a 
table  fpoonful  of  fine  oil  j  when  well  mixed,  put  the  ears 
to  it  i  have  ready  a  ftewpan  with  hog's  lard  properly 

hot. 


C  A  LF's^   H  E  A  RT.  ijj 

hoc,  put  in  the  ears  one  by  one,  with  as  much  of  the  bat- 
ter as  will  ftick  to  them ;  fry  of  a  fine  colour,  and  fcrve 
tbcm  with  fried  parfley ;  they  may  alfo  be  ftuflFed  with 
good  force-meat.  Inftead  of  the  above  batter,  you  may 
h^&c  them  with  yolks  of  eggs  and  bread-crumbs* 

Calf's  Ears  baufewtfe  fajhion^.  Make  a  fauce  with  a 
litde  jelly  broth  and  white  wine,  a  little  butter,  chopped 
parfley,  ihalots,  pepper,  and  fait ;  boil  it  to  a  diick  conr 
Sftence  s  (when  done,  add  the  juice  of  half  a  Seville 
orange,  and  ferve  it  upon  brazed  ears« 

A  MiDCALF.  Stuff  a  calf  s  heart  with  force-meat, 
Rnd  fend  it  to  the  oven  in  an  eartheii  diih,  with  a  litde 
water  tinder  it.  Lay  butter  over  it,  and  dredge  it  with 
flour*  Boil  half  the  liver,  and  all  the  lights,  for  half  an 
hour  I  then  chop  xktm  fmall,  and  put  them  in  a  tolling- 
pan,  with  a  pint  of  gravy,  a  ipoonful  of  catchup,  and  one 
of  lemon-pickle.  Squeeze  in  half  a  lemon,  feafon  with 
pepper  and  falc,  and  thicken  with  a  good  piece  of  butter 
iQUed  in  flour.  When  you  ^iih  it  up,  pour  the  niince- 
meat  in  the  bottom,  and  have  the  other,  half  of  the  liver 
ready  fried  of  a  fine  brown,  in  thin  ilices,  and  cut  little 
pieces  of  bacon.  Set  the  heart  in  the  middle,  and  lay  diQ 
tfver  and  bacon  over  the  mince-meat. 

Calf's  Heart  roafttd.  Having  made  a  force«*meae 
of  the  crumb  of  half  a  penny  loaf,  a  quarter  of  a  poundsof 
beef  fuet  chopped  fmall,  a  little  parfley,  fweet  marjoram^ 
aad  lemon-peel,  mixed  up  with  a  litde  pepper,  fait,  nut-» 
vosgi  and  the  yolk  of  an  egg;  fill  the  heart  with  it,  and 
lay  a  veal  caul  over  the  ftuffing,  or  a  Iheet  of  writing 
paper,  to  keep  it  in  i(;s  place.  Lay  it  in  a  Putch  oveoi 
and  keep  turning  it  till  it  b  thoroughly  roafted.    When 

you 


i^ 


t6o  C  A  L  F's    L  I  V  E  R. 

you  difh  it  up,  lay  dices  of  lemon  round  it, .  and  pour 
good  meked  butter  over  it. 

7b  roqfi  a  Calf's  Liver.  Lard  it  with  bacon,  but  Ipie 
it  firft,  and  roaft  it  j  ferve  it  up  with  good  gravy. 

To  fiew  a  Calf's  Liver.  Lard  the  liver  and  put  it 
into  a  ftewpan,  with  fome  fait,  whole  pepper,  a  bundle 
of  fweet  herbs,  an  onion,  and  a  blade  of  maee  j  let  it 
•ftcw  till  tender,  then  take  it  up,  and  cover  it  to  keep 
hot  J  ftrain  the  liquor  it  was  ftewed  in,  fkim  off  all  the 
fat,  thicken  it  with  a  piece  of  butter  rolled  in  flour,  and 
pour  it  over  the  liver.  \ 

Calf*s  Liver  with  Sbdtots.  Chop  green  fhalots 
and  muflirooms,  cut  the  liver  in  thin  flices,  put  altoge- 
ther in  a  ftewpan,  with  a  litde  bit  of  butter  rolled  in 
flour,  and  a  glafs  of  white  wine ;  ftcw  them  flowly  for 
about  half  an  hour ;  add  pepper  and  fait,  and  vinegar  to 
your  tafte.  If  you  would  have  it  white^  make  a  liafon 
of  yolks  of  eggs  and  cream,  with  lennon  or  verjuice. 

7(?  drefs  a  Calf's  Liver  in  a  Caul.  Take  off  the 
under  Ikin,  atid  ftu*ed  the  liver  very  fmall,  then  take  an 
ounce  of  truffles  and  morals  chopped  fmall,  with  parfley  j 
loaft  two  or  three  onions,  take  off  their  outermoft  coats; 
pound  fix  cbvcs,  and  a  dozen  coriander  feeds,  add  them 
to  the  onions,  and  pound  them  together  In  a  marble 
mortar ;  then  take  them  out  and  mix  them  with  the  liver ; 
take  a  pint  of  cream,  half  a  pint  of  milk,  and  feven  or 
eight  new  laid  eggs ;  beat  them  together,  boil  them,  but 
do  not  let  them  curdle,  fhred  a  pound  of  fuet  as  finall  as 
you  can^  half  melt  it  in  a  pan,  and  pour  it  into  your  egg 
and  cream  j  then  pour  it  into  your  liver,  and  mix  all 
well  together,  feafoq  it  with  pepper,  fait,  nutmegs  and  a 
little  thyme,  and  let  it  ftand  till  it  is  cold  j  fpread  a  caul 

over 


C  ALF's    3P  L  U  C  K.  iSt 

\aver  the  bottom  and  fides  of  the  ftewpan,  and  put  in 
your  halhed  liver  a|id  cream  together ;  foM  it  up  in  the 
caul  in  the  fliape  of  calf's  liver,  then  turn  it  upfide  dowa 
carefully,  lay  it  in  a  di(h  that  wiU  bear  the  heat,  .and  do 
it  over  with  beaten  egg ;  dredge  it  with  grated  breadi 
and  bake  it  in  itn  oven.  Serve,  it  up  hoc  for  a  firft 
courfe. 

To  d^e/s  a  Calf*s  Pluck.  Boil  the  lights  and  part  of 
the  liver  j  roaft  the  heart,  ftuffed  with  fuct,  fweet  herbv 
and  a  little  parfley,  all  chopped  fmall,  a  few  crumbs  of 
bread,  fbme  pepper,  fait,  nutmeg,  and  a  little  lemon- 
peel  5  mix  it  up  with  the  yolk  of  an  eggw  When  the 
lights  and  liver  are  boiled,  chop  them  very  finall,  and 
put  them  in  a  iaucepan,  with  a  piece  of  butter  rolled  in 
flour,  fome  pepper  and  fait,  with  a  litde  lemon  or  vine- 
gar, if  agreeable ;  fiy  the  other  part  of  the  liver,  cut 
in  llices,  with  fome  little  pieces  of  bacon;  lay  the 
mince  at  the  bottom,  the  heart  in  the  middle,  and  the 
fried  liver  and  bacon  round,  with  fome  crifpcd  parfley. 
For  fauce,  plain  butter.  It  is  a  large  difli,  but  it  may 
be  eafily  diminifhed. 

Calf*s  Feet  with  Fora-meat.  Bone  them,  and  fill 
them  with  force-meat,  made  of  whatever  you  pleafe,; 
tie  them  in  flices  of  lard,  ftew  them  flowly-in  broth  and 
ivhite  wine,  a  faggot  of  fweet  herbs,  a  few  cloves,  roots, 
and  onions.  When  done,  ferve  with  what  fauce  you 
pleale.      « 

Calf's  Feet  tjoith  Lemon  fauce.  Take  calPs  feet  plain 
boiled,  put  them  in  a  ftewpan  with  a  little  oil  or  but- 
ter, half  a  lemon,  peeled  and  fliced,  and  as  much  broth 
or  oillis  as  will  fimmer  them  on  a  flow  fire  for  about 
half  an  hourj  take  them  out  and  wipe  them,  fift  the 

Vol.  L  '  Y  fauce. 


t6i  CALF^s     P  E  E  T. 

faucc,  Ikim  it  well,  add  a  little  butter  rolled  in  flour,  a 
little  cuUis,  a  chopped  anchovy,  and  the  juice  of  half  a' 
lemon. 

Ragoo  of  Calf's  Feet.  Boil  the  feet,  bone  and  cut 
the  meat  in  dices  j  brown  them  in  the  frying-pan,  and 
tlicn  put  them  in  fome  good  gravy,  with  morels,  truf- 
fles, pickled  niufhrooms,  the  yolks  of  four  eggs  boiled 
hard,  fome  fait,  and  a  little  butter  rolled  in  flour.  For 
a  fick  perfon,  a  calf's  foot  boiled,  with  parfley  and  but- 
ter, is  efteemed  very  good. 

Calf's  Feet  and  Chaldron  after  the  Italian  zvay.  Take 
•  the  crumb  of  a  three-penny  loaf,  one  pound  of  iuet>  - 
a  large  onion,  two  dr  three  handfuls  of  parfley,  mince 
it  very  fmall,  feafon  k  with  fait  and  pepper,  three  or 
four  cloves  of  garlick,  mix  with  eight  or  ten  eggs, 
and  ftuflf  the  chaldron ;  then  put  the  feet  in  a  ftew- 
pan :  it  mufl:  (lew  upon  a  flow  fire  till  the  bones  arc* 
icofe ;  then  take  two  quarts  of  green  peas,  and  put  in 
the  liquor ;  and  when  done,  you  muft  thicken  it  with 
the  yolks  of  two  eggs,  and  the  juice  of  a  lemon.  It 
muft  be  feafoned  with  pepper,  fait,  mace,  and  onion, 
ibme  parfley  and  garlick.  You  muft  ferve  it  up  with 
the  aforefaid  pudding  in  the  middle  of  the  difh,  and 
gamifh  the  dilh  with  fried  fuckers  and  fliced  onion. 

Calf's  Foot  Jelly.  Boil  two  calPs  feet  in  a  gallon  of 
water  till  it  comes  to  a  quart,  then  ftrain  it,  let  it  ftand 
till  cold,  fkim  off  all  the  fafc  clean,  and  take  the  jelly  up 
clean.  If  there  is  any  fediment  at  the  bottom,  leave  it^ 
put  the  jelly  into  a  faucepan  with  a  pint  of  mountain 
wine,  half  a  pound  of  loaf-fugar,  the  juice  of  four  large 
lemons  3  beat  up  fix  or  eight  whites  of  eggs  with  a  whifk, 
then  put  Acm  into  »  faucepan,  and  ftir  all  together  till 

It 


C,A  L  F's      F  E  E  T.  i5j 

it  boils.  Let  it  boU  a  few  minutes.  Have  ready  a  large 
flannel  bag,  pour  it  in,  it  will  run  through  ^uick ;  pour , 
it  in  again  till  it  runs  clear  9  then  have  ready  a  large 
china  bafon,  with  the  lemon-peel  cut  as  thin  as  poflible^ 
let  the  jelly  run  into  that  bafon,  and  the  peels  both  give 
it  a  fine  amber  colour,  and  alfo  a  flavour ;  widi  a  clean 
filvcr  fpoon  fill  your  glafles,  and  ferve  them  up  on  falvers, 
or  round  defert  fi"amcs. 

Another  way.  Put  a  gang  of  calf's  feet,  well  cleaned, 
into  a  pan  with  fix  quarts  of  water,  and  let  them  boil 
gently  till  reduced  to  two  quarts  i  then  take  out  the  feet, 
ikim  oflT  the  fat  clean,  and  clear  the  jelly  from  the  fedi- 
ment;  beat  the  whites  of  five  eggs  to  a  froth,  add  one  pint 
of  Lifbon,  or  any  pale  made  winq^  if  you  chufe  it  j  then 
Iqueezc  in  the  juice  of  three  lemons.  When  your  ftock 
is  boiling,  take  three  fpoonfuls  of  it  and  keep  ftirring  it 
with  your  wine  and  eggs  to  keep  it  from  curdling ;  add 
a  litdc  more  flock,  and  ftill  keep  ftirring  it,  then  put  it 
in  the  pan,  and  fweeten  it  with  loaf-fugar  to  your  tafte  j  a 
glals  of  French  brandy  will  keep  the  jelly  fi-om  turning 
blue  in  frofty  air ;  put  in  ;he  outer  rind  of  two  lemons^ 
and  let  it  boil  one  minute  all  together ;  pour  it  into  a 
flannel  hag,  let  it  run  into  a  bafon,  and  keep  pouring  it 
back  gendy  into  a  bag  till  it  runs  clear  and  bright;  then 
fct  your  glafies  under  the  bag,  and  cover  it,  left  duft  get 
in.-— If  you  would  have  your  jelly  for  a  fifli-pond,  tranf* 
parent  pudding,  or  hen's  neft,  to  be  turned  out  of  the 
mould,  boil  half  a  pint  of  ifinglals  in  a  pint  of  water, 
till  reduced  to  one  quarter^  and  put  it  into  the  ftock.  be- 
fore it  is  refined. 

Another  way.  To  two  calf's  feet,  put  three  quarts  of 
water,  boil  it  to  one  quart ;  when  cold*  take  ofi^  the  faty 

y  2  an^ 


l54  CANCER, 

and  take  the  jelly  from  the  fediment  -,  put  to  it  one  pint 
^of  white  wine,  half  a  pound  of  fugar,  the  juice  of  duree 
lenrwns,  the  peel  of  one ;  whifk  the  whites  of  two  eggs  i 
put  all  into  a  faucepan,  boil  it  a  few  aiinutes  ^  put  it 
through  a  jelly-bag  till  it  is  fine. 

To  makefavmry  Calf*s-foot  Jelly.  Boil  cither  two 
or  four  calTs  feet,  according  to  the  quantity  which  is 
wanted,  with  ifinglafs  to  make  it  a  ftiflF  jelly;  one 
ounce  of  picked  ifinglafs  to  two  feet  is  about  fufficient, 
if  the  ifinglafs  is  very  good  5  boil  with  thcfe  a  piece  of 
kmon-pcel,  an  onion,  a  bunch  of  fweet  herbs,  fooic  pep- 
per corns,  a  few  cloves,  a  bit  of  mace,  nutmeg,  and  a 
little  fait.  When  the  jcUy  is  enough,  flrain  it,  put  to  it 
juice  of  lemon,  and  white  wine  to  your  tafte  j  boil  it  up, 
pulp  it  through  a  bag  till  fine  \  the  white  of  an  e^  may 
be  added  before  it  is  boiled. 

Another  way.  Spread  fbme  flices  of  lean  veal  and  ham 
in  the  bottom  of  a  flewpan,  with  a  carrot  and  turnip,  or 
two  or  three  onions  j  cover  it,  and  let  it  fweat  on  a  flow 
fire  till  it  is  as  deep  a  brown  as  you  would  have  it ;  then 
put  to  it  a  quart  of  very  clear  broth,  fome  whole  pepper, 
mace,  a  very  little  ifinglafs,  and  fait  to  your  tafle ;  let 
this  boil  ten  minutes,  then  flrain  it  through  a  French 
ftrainer  ;  fkim  off  all  the  fat,  and  put  to  it  the  whites  of 
three'  eggs  -,  run  it  feveral  times  through  a  jelly-bag,  as 
you  do  other  jellies. 


CANCER. 

This  is  a  hard,  indolent  tumour,  feated  in  fome  of 
the  glands  5  as  the  br eafls,   the  arni-^pits,  &c.     If  the 

I  (umour 


CANCER.  165 

tumour  becomes  large,  unequal,  of  a  livid,  blackifli* 
or  leaden  colour,  and  is  attended  with  violent  pain,  it 
gets  the  name  of  an  occult  cancer.  When  the  (kin  is 
broken,  and  2,fanieSy  or  matter  of  an  abominably  foetid 
fmell  is  discharged  from  the  fore,  it  is  called  an  open  or 
ulcerated  cancer.  Perfons  after  the  age  of  forty-five, 
particularly  women,  and  thofe  who  lead  an  indolentj^  ie- 
dentary  life,  are  moft  fubjeft  to  this  difeafe. 

This  difeafe  is  often  owing  to  fuppreffed  evacuations  1 
hence  it  proves  fo  frequently  fatal  to  women  of  a  grols 
habit,  particularly  old  maids  and  widows,  about  the  time 
when  the  certain  difchargcg  ceafe.  It  may  likewife  be 
occaiioned  by  exceflive  grief,  fear,  anger,  religious  melan- 
choly, or  any  of  the  deprefling  paffions.  Hence  the  un- 
^^brtunate,  the  choleric,  and  thofe  perfons  who  devote 
themfelves  to  a  religious  life  in  convents  or  monafteries, 
ve  often  affiliated  with  it.  It  may  alio  be  occafioned  by 
the  long-continued  ufe  of  food  that  is  too  hard  of  digef- 
tion,  or  of  an  acrid  nature ;  by  barrennefs,  celibacy,^ 
indolence,  cold,  blows,  friftion,  preflure,  or  the  like. 
Women  often  fuffer  by  the  laft  of  thefe,  by  means  of 
their  ftays,  which  fqueeze  and  comprefs  their  breads  fi> 
as  to  occafion  great  mifchief.  Sometimes  the  difeafe  is 
owing  to  an  hereditary  difpofition. 

This  diforder  feems  often  very  trifling  at  the  begin- 
mng.     A  hard  tumour  about  the  fize  of  a  hazel  nut,  or  1 

perhaps  fmaller,  is  generally  the  firft  fymptom.     This  j 

will  often  continue  for  a  long  time  without  feeming  to 
increafe,  or  giving  the  patient  great  uneafmefs  -,  but  if  the 
conftitution  be  hurt,  or  the  tumour  irritated  by  preflure, 
or  improper  treatment  of  any  kind,  it  begins  to  extend 
itfclf  toward;  the  neighbouring  parts,  by  pufhing  out 

a  kind 


! 


i 


i66  CANCER. 

a  kind  of  roots  or  limbs.  It  then  gets  the  name  of  caft'^ 
rery  from  a  fancied  refemblance  between  thele  limbs  and 
the  claws  of  a  crab.  The  colour  of  the  (kin  begins  to 
change,  which  is  firft  red,  afterwards  purple,  then  blucifli, 
livid,  and  at  laft  black.  The  patient  complains  of  hear, 
with  a  burning,  gnawing,  fhooting  pain.  The  tumour 
is  very  hard,  rough,  and  unequal,  with  a  protuberance, 
or  rifing,  in  the  middle ;  its  fize  increafes  daily,  and  the 
neighbouring  veins  become  thick,  knotty,  and  of  a 
blackifh  colour. 

The  flcin  at  length  gives  way,  and  a  thin,  fharp  mat- 
ter begins  to  flow,  which  eats  away  the  neighbouring 
parts  till  it  forms  a  large  unfightly  ulcer.  More  occult 
cancers  arife,  and  communicate  with  the  neighbouring 
glands.  The  pain  and  ftench  become  intolerable ;  the 
appetite  fails ;  the  ftrength  is  exhaufted  by  a  continual 
Ireftic  fever ;  at  laft,  a  violent  difcharge  of  blood  from 
Ibmc  part  of  the  body,  with  faintings,  or  convulfion 
fitSj  generally  put  an  end  to  the  nriiferable  patient's 
life. 

The  diet  ought  to  be  light,  but  nourifhing.  All 
ftrong  liquors,,  and  high-feafoned  or  faked  provifions, 
arc  to  be  avoided.  The  patient  may  take  as  much  ex- 
crcife  as  he  can  eafily  bear  i  and  Ihould  life  every  me- 
thod to  divert  thought,  and  amufe  his  fancy.  AH  kinds 
of  external  injuiy  are  carefully  to  be  guarded  againft, 
particularly  of  the  affcfted  part,  which  ought  to  be  de- 
fcixled  from  all  prefTure,  and  even  from  the  external 
air,  by  covering  with  fur  or  foft  flannel. 

This  is  one  of  thofe  dlf<^afes  for  which  no  certain 
remedy  is  yet  known.  Its  progrefs,  however,  may 
fomctimes  be  retarded,  and  feme  of  its  moft  diHigree- 

abl« 


CANCER.  167 

able  lymptoms  mitigated  by  proper  applicati<:)ns.  One 
misfortune  attending  the  difeafe  is,  that  the  unhappy 
patient  often  conceals  it  too  long.  Were  proper  means; 
ufcd  in  due  time,  a  cancer  might  often  be  cured ;  but 
after  the  diforder  has  arrived  at  a  certain  height,  it  ge-- 
nerally  iets  all  medicine  at  defiance. 

When  a  cancerous  tumour  is  firft  difcovered,  the  pa- 
tient ought  to  obferve  a  proper  regimen,  and^  to  take 
twice  or  thrice  a  week  a  dofe  of  the  common  purging 
mercurial  pill.  Some  blood  may  alfo  be  let,  and  the 
part  affeftcd  may  be  gently  rubbed  twice  a-day  with  a 
little  of  the  mercurial  ointment,  and  kept  warn^  with 
fiir  or  flannel.  The  food  muft  be  light,  and  about  a 
pint  of  the  dccoftion  of  woods  or  farfaparilla,  may  be 
drank  daily.  Hard  tumours,  which  had  the  appear- 
ance of  beginning  cancers,  have  fometimes  been  driven 
away  by  a  courfe  of  this  kind. 

Should  the  tumour,  however,  not  yield  to  this  treat- 
ment, but,  on  the  contrary,  become  larger  and  harder, 
it  will  be  proper  td  extirpate  it  either  by  the  knife  or 
cauftic.  Indeed,  whenever  this  can  be  done  with  fafe- 
ly,  the  fooner  it  is  done  the  better.  It  can  anfwcr  no 
purpofe  to  extirpate  a  cancer  after  the  conftitution  is 
ruined,  or  the  whole  mafs  of  humours  corrupted  by  it. 
This,  however,  is  the  common  way,  which  makes  the 
operation  fo  fcldom  fucceed.  Few  people  will  fubmk 
to  the  extirpation  till  death  ftares  them  in  the  face ; 
whereas,  if  it  were  done  early,  the  patient's  life  would 
not  be  endangered  by  the  operation,  and  it  would  gene- 
rally prove  a  radical  cure. 

When  the  cancer  is  fo  fituated  that  it  cannot  be  cut 
oflF,  or  if  the  patient  will  not  fubmit  to  the  operation, 

fuch 


iB9  C  A  N  C  E  ft. 

fiich  medicines  as  will  mitigate  6t  relieve  the  itioft  tif- 
gent  fymptoms  may  be  ufed.  Dr,  Home  fays,  that 
half  a  grain  of  the  corrofive  iublimatc  of  mercury,  dif- 
£>lved  in  one  ounce  of  brandy,  and  taken  night  and 
morning,  will  often  be  of  fervice  in  cancers  of  the  face 
and  nofe.  He  likewife  recommends  an  infufion  of  the 
'  foUmufHy  or  night  fliade,  in  cancers  of  the  breafts. 

A  medicine  much  in  repute  at  prefent  for  this  difcafe 
is  hemlock.  Dr.  Stork,  phyfidan  at  Vienna,  recom- 
mended the  extraft  of  this  plant  as  very  efficacious  in 
cancers  of  every  kind.  He  advifes  the  patient,  however, 
to  begin  with  very  fmall  dofes,  as  two  or  three  grains, 
and  to  increafe  the  dofe  gradually  till  fome  good  cfFeft 
be  perceived,  and  there  to  reft  without  farther  increafe. 

The  regimen  which  the  Doftor  recommends  during 
the  ufe  of  the  medicine,  is  to  avoid  all  preparations  of 
grain  or  corn  not  fermented,  and  too  acrid  aromatics* 
He  fays  good  wine  will  not  be  hurtftil  to  thofe  who  are 
accuftomed  to  it,  nor  a  moderate  ufe  of  acids ;  and  adds, 
that  the  patient  Ihould  live  in  a  pure,  free  air,  and  keep 
his  mind  as  quiet  and  cheerful  as  poffible. 

The  powder  of  hemlock  is  by  fome  preferred  to  the 
cxtraft :  they  are  both  made  of  the  frefh  leaves,  and 
may  be  ufed  nearly  in  the  fame  manner.  Dr.  Nichol- 
fon,  of  Berwick,  fays,  he  gradually  increafed  the  dofe  of 
the  powder  from  a  few  grains  to  half  a  dram,  and  gave 
near  four  drams  of  it  in  the  day  with  remarkably  good 
cfFefts.  The  hemlock  may  alfo  be  ufed  externally,  either 
as  a  poultice  or  fomentation.  The  fore  may  likewife  be 
kept  clean  by  injefVing  daily  a  ftrong  deco6Uon  of  the 
tops  and  leaves  into  it. 

Few 


CANCER.  i6) 

<  • 

Few  things  contribute  more  to  the  healing  of  foul, 
ibrdid  ukers  of  any  kind,  than  keeping  them  thoroughly 
clean.  This  ought  never  to  be  neglefted.  The  bell 
application  for  this  purpofe  feems  to  be  the  carrot  poul- 
tice. The  root  of  the  common  carrot  may  be  grated, 
and  moiftened  ,with  as  much  watef  as  will  bring  it  to 
the  confiftence  of  a  poultice  or  cataplafm.  This  muft 
be  applied  to  the  fore,  and  renewed  twice  a-day.  It 
generally  cleans  the  fore,  eafos  the  pain>  and  takes  away 
the  difagreeable  fmell ;  which  dre  objefts  of  no  Ihiall 
iitiportance  in  fuch  a  dreadful  diforder.  , 

Wort,  or  an  infufipn  of  malt,  has  been  recommended, 
not  only  as  a  proper  drink,  but  as  a  powerful  medicine 
in  this  difeafe.  It  muft  be  frequently  made  frefh,  and 
the  patient  may  tal^c  it  at  pleafure.  Two,  three,  or  even 
four  Englilh  pints  of  it  may  be  drank  eVdry  day  for  a 
confiderable  timel  No  benefit  can  be  expefted  from 
any  medicine  in  this  difeafe,  unlefs  it  be  perfifted  in  for 
a  long  time :  it  is  of  too  obflinate  a  nature  to  be  foon 
removed,  and,  when  it  admits  of  a  cure  at  all,  it  niuft 
be  brought  about  by  inducing  an  almoft  total  change  of 
the  habit,  which  muft  always  be  a  work  of  time.  Setdns, 
or  iffues  in  the  neighbourhood  of  the  cancer^  have  fome- 
times  good  effefts. 

When  all  other  medicines  fail,  recourfe  muft  be  |iad 
to  opium,  as  a  kind  of  folace.  This  will  riot,  indeed. 
Cure  the  difeafe,  but  it  will  eaie  the  patient's  agony,  and 
render  life  more  tolerable  while  it  continues. 

To  avoid  this  dreadful  diforder,  people  ought  to  ufo 
wholefome  food  j  to  take  fuflicient  exercife  in  the  open 
air  i  to  be  as  eafy  and  cheerful  as  poITibie  i  and  carefully 

Vol.  I.  Z  to 


lyo  Candying. 

to  guard  againft  all  blows^  bryifes^  md  every  kind  o€ 
preflurc  upon  the  brcafts,  or  other  glandular  parts. 

Perhaps  a  refolutc  perfeycrancc  in  a  courfe  of  Swains- 
fin's  Felno^  Vegetable  Syrup  might  be  as  happy  in  its  ten- 
dency as  any  medicine  whatever;  and  it  i&  certainly 
Dforth  the  trial. 


CANDYING. 

This  is  a  method  of  prcfcrv^ng  frclh  funples  in  gene- 
ral by  fteeping  or  boiling  them  firft  in  water,  and  then  in 
fyrup  or  folution  of  fugar :  they  are  afterwards  either 
kept  moiflr  in  the  fyrup,  (fee  Preferving)  or  dried,  that 
the  fugar  may  candy  upon  them,  which  indeed  is  the 
moft  ulual  method.         / 

The  firft  preparation  in  this  branch  is  to  boil  fugar  to  a- 
cani^  heighty  which  is  done  as  follows : 

Put  a  pound  of  double-refined  fugar  into  a  preferving 
pan,  with  half  a  pint  of  water,  fet  it  over  a  clear  flow  fire, 
flcim  it  as  it  rifes,  and  boil  it  till  it  looks  ftnt  and  clear> 
and  when  it  candies  about  die  edges  of  the  pan  it  will  be 
high  enough  for  any  fruit.  It  is  very  wrong  to  put  any 
kind  of  fweet-meats  into  too  thick  a  fyrup,  efpecially  at 
the  firft,  for  it  withers  the  fiuit>  and  takes  off  both  beau-  . 
ty  and  flavour. 

All  fruits  muft  be  preferved  before  they  can  be  candi- 
ed ;  but  they  muft  alfo  be  dried  in  a  ftove  or  before  the 
fire,  that  none  of  the  fyrup  may  remain  in  them.  Ha- 
ving boiled  your  fugar  to  a  candy  height,"  put  in  the  fi-uit» 
turning  them  frequendy  over,  and  when  fufficiendy  can- 
died, lay  diem  in  diflies,  and  put  them  in  a  drying  ftovc 
to  dry  gradually.    When  they  are.  done^  put  them  in 

paper 


C  A  N  D  T  I  N  or.  tyi 

|)apcr  boxes,  with  white  paper  between  thferh,  and  keep 
them  in  a  dry  place  for  ufc. 

So  make  a  Caramel.  Peel  and  divide  China  oran* 
ges'  into  quarters,  taking  care  not  to  break  the  (kins ; 
\xj  the  quarters  before  the  fire  and  turn  thehn  till  the 
flcin  is  very  dry  j  then  having  ready  a  pound  of  fugar 
fifted  through  a  fine  fieve,  put  it  in  a  brafs  pan  over  the 
fire,  keep  ftirring,  till  it  is  melted  and  looks  pretty  clear; 
then  take  it  off,  put  in  the  quarters  of  oranges,  one  at  a 
time,  take  thenn  out  quickly  with  a  little  fpoon,  and  lay 
them  on  a  difh,  which  mult  be  buttered,  or  they  will 
(tick  to  it. 

In  this  manner  may  be  roafted  chefhuts,  or  any  othei 
fitrit  in  fummer ;  firft  laying  the  fi-uit  before  the  fire  to 
tou^en  the  flcin,  for  if  any  wet  come  out  the  fugar  wiD 
not  ftick.  This  is  to  be  done  juft  befojre  they  are  to  be 
eaten  j  for  luch  preparations  will  not  keep. 

Candied  Orange  Flowers.  Boil  fugar  to  a  candy 
hei^t,  put  feme  orange-flowers  to  it,  and  take  it  off  the 
fire  for  about  a  quarter  of  an  hour,  or  till  the  flowers  diC- 
eharge  their  juice,  as  it  refi-efhes  die  fugar  jj  put  it  upon 
the  fire  again  to  bring  it  to  the  fame  degree }  let  it  cool 
to  half,  put  it  into  moulds  and  dry  it  in  a  ftove  of  a  mo- 
derate heat,  kept  as  equal  as  poflible.  It  is  known  to  be 
candied  by  thrufting  a  friiall  fkewer  into  the  comer  of 
each  mould  to  the  bottom,  and  the  top  muft  be  Iparkling 
)ike  a  diamond ;  put  the  moulds  upon  one  fide  to  drain 
a  good  while  before  you  take  out  the  candy,  turn  it  over 
upon  white  paper,  and  keep  it  always  in  a  dry  place. 

To  cauAf  Cassia.  Take  as  much  of  the  powder  of 
brown  caflla  as  will  lie  upon  two  broad  fhillings,  with 
whjit  rnuflc  and  ambergreafc  you  think  proper.    The 


n»  CANDYING. 

caflja  ^  and  perfume  muft  be  powdered  together.  Then 
take  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  fugar,  and  boil  it  to  a  can- 
dy height  5  then  put  in  your  powder  and  niix  it  well  to- 
gether, and  pour  it  into  pewter  faucers  or  plates,  which 
muft  be  buttered  very  thin,  and  when  it  is  cold  it  will 
flip  out. 

To  candy  Ginoeh*  Grate  an  ounce  of  race-ginger  ve- 
ry fine,  and  put  it  into  a  toffi/ig  pan,  with  a  pound  of 
loaf- fugar  beat  fine,  and  as  much  water  as  will  diflblvc 
It.  Put  them  over  a  flow  fire,  and  ftir  them  well  till  the 
lugar  begins  to  boil ;  then  ftir  in  another  pound  of  fine 
fiigar  beat  fine,  and  continue  ftirring  it  till  it  become^ 
thick.  Then  t^ke  it  off  the  fire,  and  d^pp  it  in  cakes 
upon  eardien  diflies ;  fet  them  to  dry  in  a  warm  places 
when  they  will  be  hard  and  brittle,  and  have  a  white  ap7 
pearance. 

To  candy  Lemon  or  Orange-peel.  Cut  your  lemons, 
or  oranges,  long  ways  j  take  out  ail  the  pulp,  and  put 
the  rinds  into  a.  pretty  ftrong  fait  and  hard  Water  fix  days^ 
then  boil  thenri  in  a  large  quantity  of  fpring  water  till 
they  are  tender  j  then  take  them  out,  and,  lay  them  on  a 
hair  fievc  to  drain ;  then  make  a  thin  fyrvp  of  fine  loaf- 
fugar,  a  pound  to  a  qujart  of  water  j  put  in  youx  peels 
and  boil  them  half  an  hour,  oi:  till  they  look  9lear ;  have 
ready  a  thick  fyrup  made,  of  fine  loaf-fugar,  with  as 
^nuch  water  as  will  diflblve  it  \  put  in  your  pe?ls,  and' 
boil  th.em  over  a  flow  fire  till  you  fee  the  fyrup  candy 
?ibout  the  pan  and  peels  j  tlien  take  them  oyt,  and  grate 
fine  fugar  all  over  them  \  lay  them  on  a  hair  fieve  to 
drain,  and  fet  them  in  a.  ftove,  or  before  the  fire  to  dry, 
^nd  keep  them  in  a  dry  place  for  v^c. 

'  I      "■"'■''    ■  Pa 


CANDYING.  I7J 

Do  not  cover  yoi^r  f^ucepan  when  you  boil  either 
lemons  or  oranges. 

To  candy  AvGELiOA.  Take  it  in  April;  boil  it  in 
water  till  it  is  tender,  then  take  it  up  and  drain  it  from 
the  water  very  well  s  then  fcrape  the  outfide  of  it,  and 
dry  it  in  a  clean  cloth,  and  lay  it  in  the  fyrup,  and  let 
^t  lie  three  or  four  days,  covered  clqfe ;  the  fyrup  muft 
\)e  flrong  of  fpgar,  and  keep  it  hot  a  good  while,  but 
without  boiling.  After  it  is  heated  a  good  while,  lay  it 
upoa  a  pie-plate,  and  fo  let  it  dry  i  keep  it  near  the  fore 
|cft  it  diflblve. 

Orange  Chips.  Pare  Ibme  of  the  beft  Seville 
oranges  aflant,  about  a  quarter  of  an  inch  broad,  and  if 
yon  can  keep  the  parings  whole,  they  will  have  a  pret- 
tier effcft.  When  you  have  pared  as  many  as  you  in- 
tend, put  them  into  fait  and  fpring  water  for  a  day  or 
two ;  then  boil  them  in  a  large  quantity  of  fpring  water 
till  they  are  tender,  and  drain  them  on  a  fieve.  Have 
seady  a  thin  fyrup,  made  of  a  quait  of  water  and  a  pound 
of  fine  fugar;  boil  them,  a  few  at  a  time,  to  keep  them 
from  breaking,  till  they  look  clear ;  then  put  them  into 
a  fyrup  made  of  fine  loaf-fugar,  with  as  much  water  as 
will  diflblve  it,  and  boil  them  to  a  candy  height.  When 
you  take  them  up,  lay  them  on  a  fieve,  and  grate  double- 
refined  fugar  over  them.  Then  put  them  in  a  ftove,  or 
before  the  fire,  to  dry. 

7(7  candy  Cinnamon.  Soak  fbme  cinnamon  bark  in 
water  about  twenty-four  hours,  cut  it  into  pieces  of  what 
length  you  pleafe,  and  boil  a  moment  in  fugar  of  candy 
height ;  drain  it  and  dry  it  in  the  ftove  upon  rails,  till  it 
comesi  to  a  proper  fubftance  to  p\it  in  candy  moulds ; 

gamifh 


ti4    '        c  A  N  i)  ^  i  N  a 

jgjirtiifli  ^th  Ibg^r^  and  when  it  is  half  cold>  piit  it  to  drjr 
9S  the  orange- flower  candy. 

Candied  Eringo  Roots.  Boil  them  iil  water  tUl  the 
find  will  eaflly  pfeel  ofF^  ^heft  peeled,  flit  them  through 
thtt  nfiiddle,  take  out  the  pithj  and  wafh  them  tliree  or 
four  tiities  ill  cold  water.  For  every  pound  of  the  roots 
jfo  prtptittAy  tjlke  two  pounds  of  double-refined  fugaf, 
MAvLch  is  tb  bfc  diflcilv<*d  id  a  proper  quantity  bf  water^ 
tnd  fet  bvfef  the  fire.  As  foon  as  the  ^  liquor  begins  t« 
boili  put  ill  the  rootsj  aiid.  eontinue  the  boiling  till  ihtj 
;trefbft. 

In  a  flmilar  manner  may  be  candied  or  preferved 
^figilicd  roots  and  Ekcampane  roots. 

Candied  SxtsL,  Put  any  quantity  of  clean  filings  of 
iriHi  into  a  brals  kettle,  fufpended  over  a  very  gentle  fire; 
Add  ta  them,  by  litdc  and  little,  twice  their  weight  of 
white  iugar^  boiled  to  the  confiflence  of  candy,  with 
which  powdered  flarch  has  been  prcvioufly  mixed  in  Ac 
"pto^mxioii  of  one  dram  to  every  pound ;  agitating  tho 
iLttAt  coritintiaUy,  that  the  filings  may  be  crufted  over 
with  the  ft]gar>  and  taking  care  to  prevent  the«r  nqming 
into  lumps. 

This  preparation,  which  is  a  medicinal  one>  had  been 
long  kept  as  a  lecret  in  the  hands  of  the  confe£tioners« 
]t  is  a  frfc  and  agreeable  compofition,  and  may  be  given 
to  the  quantity  of  half  a  dram,  wherever  fteel  or  iron  is 
to  be  ufed.  In  low,  languid  diforders,  and  in  certain 
jfopprefHons  in  women  of  delicate  conflitutions^  this  muft 
prove  a  fafe  and  efficacious  medicine. 

7b  dry  Damascens.  Gather  the  damafcens  when  full 
ripe,  lay  them  on  a  coarfe  cloth,  fet  them  in  a  very  cool 
oven-,  let  thcrn  ftapd  a  day  or  two }  they  muft  be  a3  dry 


C  A  K  D  Y  I  N:a  tli 

as  a  frefli  prune ;  if  they  are  not^  put  them  in  Another 
cool  oven  for  a  day  or  two  longer ;  then  take  them  out  i 
they  will  eat  like  frefh  damafcens  in  the  winter. 

To  dry  Apricots*  Pare  and  ftone  a  pound  of  apri- 
cots, and  put  them  in  your  toiling  pan ;  then  take  a  pound 
of  double-refined  fugar,  pound  and  fift  it,  and  ftrew  a 
litde  among  yow  apricots,  and  lay  the  reft  orer  th^qiv 
After  letting  them  ftand  twenty-four  hours,  turn  them 
three  or  four  times  in  the  fyrup,  then  boil  them  pretty 
quick  till  they  feem  clear.  When  coW,  take  them  out, 
and  lay  them  on  glafles ;  then  turn  them  every  half  hour 
die  firft  day,  the  next  day  every  hour,  and  afterwards  as 
may  appear  to  be  neceilary. 

To  dry  Pear  Plums.  Take  two  pounds  of  pear 
plums  to  one  pound  of  fugar  j  ftone  them,  and  fill  every" 
one  of  them  with  lugar ;  lay  them  in  an  earthen  pot^  put 
to  them  as  much  water  as  will  prevent  burning  them  % 
then  fet  them  in  an  oven  after  bread  is  drawn,  let  them 
ftand  till  they  are  tender  j  then  put  them  into  a  fieve.to 
drain  well  from  the  iyrup ;  and  fet  them  in  an  oven 
again  till  they  are  a  little  dry  \  then  fmooth  the  ikins  as 
well  as  you  can,  and  fb  fiill  them ;  fetting  them  in  the 
oven  again  to  harden ;  then  wafti  them  in  water  icalding 
hot,  and  dry  them  very  well  \  then  put  them  in  the  oven 
a^in  very  cool,  to  blue  them.  Put  them  between  two 
pewter  difhes,  and  fet  them  in  die  oven.  - 

To  dry  Currants  in  Punches.  Stone  your  currants, 
and  dc  them  up  in  bunches ;  to  every  pound  of  currants 
put  a  pound  and  a  half  of  fugar,  and  to  every  pound  of 
fugar  put  half  a  pint  of  water  i  boil  the  fyrup  very  well, 
lay  your  currants  in  it,  fet  them  on  the  fire,  and  let  them 
juft  boil  f  take  diem  off,  cover  it  clofe  with  a  paper,  let 

them 


t^6  CAPER  S. 

them  ftand  till  the  next  day^  then  make  them  fcaldihg 
hot,  and  let  them  ftand  for  two  or  three  days  with  a  paper* 
clofe  to  them ;  then  lay  them  on  earthen  plates,'  and  fift 
them  well  over  with  fugar ;  put  them  in  a  ftpve  to  dry  ; 
the  next  day  lay  them  on  fieve3,  but  do  not  turn  them 
till  the  upper  fide  is  dry,  then  turn  them,  and  fift  the 
other-  fide  well  with  fugar ;  when  they  are  quite  dry, 
lay  them  between  papers. 

To  dry  Green  Gages.  Slit  them  down  the  feam,  juft 
fcald  them  in  a  thin  fyrup,  with  vine  leaves  at  the  top ; 
put  them  by  till  the  next  day,  keeping  them  under  the 
fyrup  i  then  put  them  into  a  thick  fyrup  cold ;  fcald 
them  gendy  in  this,  fet  them  by,  repeat  it  the  next  day 
till  they  look  clear ;  fet  them  by  for  a  few  days.  If  there 
is  occafion,  boil  them  once  more  j  take  them  from  the 
fyrup,  and  dry  them.  When  they  arc  fet  by  in  the  fyrup^ 
let  it  be  in  Ibmething  rather  narrow  at  the  top,  as  they 
mull  be  covered,  or  they  will  be  difcoloured. 


CAPERS. 

» 

Thelc  are  the  flower-buds  of  a  fmall  flirub,  preferved 
in  pickle.  The  tree  which  bears  capers  is  called  the 
caper  fhrub,  or  bu(h.  It  is  common  in  the  weftern  part 
of  Europe.  We  have  them  in  fome  gardens,  but  Tou- 
lon is  the  principal  place  for  capers.  We  have  fome 
from  Lyons,  but  they  are  flatter,  and  lefs  firm  j  and  fome 
come  from  Majorca,  but  they  are  fait  and  difagreeable. 
The  fineft  flavoured  are  from  Toulon.  They  gather  the 
buds  from  the  bloflbms  before  they  are  open,  then  fpread 
them  upon  a  floor  in  die  room^  wher?  no  fun  enters,  and 

there 


CARP.  177 

there  let  them  he  till  they  begin  to  wither ;  they  then 
throw  them  into  a  tub  of  fharp  vinegar,  and,  after  three 
days,  they  add  a  quantity  of  bay  fait.  When  this  i$ 
diflblved,  they  are  fit  for  packing  for  fale,  and  are  fent 
to  all  parts  of  Europe. 

The  fineft  capers  are  thofe  of  a  moderate  fize>  firm, 
and  clofe,  and  fuch  as  have  the  piclde  highly  flavoured  -, 
thofe  which  are  foft,  flabby,  and  half  open,  are  of  little 
value* 


CAPILLAIRE. 

This  we  believe  to  have  been  originally  a  mecficinal 
compofition  under  the  title-  of  Syrup  of  Maidenhair  ^ 
being  of  an  agreeable  fweetneis,  it  is  frequently  ufed  in 
a  glafs  of  warm  or  cold  water. 

Take  fourteen  pounds  of  loaf-fugar,  three  pounds  of 
coarfe  lugar,  fix  eggs  beat  in  with  the  fliells,  and  three 
quarts  of  water,  to  which  add  a  large  handful  of  fweet 
briar  buds ;  boil  it  twice,  Ikim  it  well,  then  add  to  it  a 
quarter  of  a  pint  of  orange  flower  water  -,  ftrain  through 
a  jelly-bag,  and  put  it  into  bottles. 


I 

0 


CARP. 

To  broil  a  Carp.  Scale  and  gut  your  carp,  nick  it 
on  the  back,  do  it  over  with  melted  butter,  feafon  it 
with  pepper,  fait,  and  a  little  parfley  fhred  j  broil  it  of  a 
nice  brown,  and  make  a  fauce  for  it  as  follows : —  Take 
one  anchovy,  a  few  capers,  a  few  pickled  mufhrooma 
flired  fine,  put  them  into  a  ftewpan  with  half  a  pint  of 

Vol.  !•  A  a  gravy^ 


lyf  Cf    A    R    R 

gravy,  a  piece  of  butter  and  flour,  fiir  it  over  the  fire  tdH'  - 
it  boils,  then  lay  the  carp  in  a  diib?  pQur  the  iauce  over 
itj  and  krve  ix  up  hot. 

To  fry  Carp.  Take  a  brace  of  carp,  fcale,  gut,  «n4 
clean  theni,  dry  them  well  in  a  clqth,  flour  thenj*  and 
put  them  into  a  frying-p^n  of  boiling  lard;  let  them  be 
of  a  fine  brown.  Fiy  the  roe$,  |iad  cut  fome  thia  flices 
of  bread  with  three  corners  -,  fry  them.  Lay  the  fiih  Of^ 
a  coarfe  cloth  to  drain ;  then  put  diem  into  the  di^fh,  tbnf 
roes  on  each  fide,,  the  toafts  JbietWieen.    Anchovy  faucc. 

To  roqfi  Carp.  Take  a  carp  with  a  foft  roe,  let  it  be 
clean  fcaled  and  gutted,  and  make  a  Huffing  for  it  as 
follows : —  Take  the  foft  roe,,  one  anchovy,  a  few  cra(h- 
rooms,  one  onion,  parfley  and  thyme  fhred  fine,  pepper, 
ialt,  a  little  naace  pounded,  a  piece  of  butter,  aAd  fomc 
crumbs  of  bread ;  mix  it  all  well  together,  and  fluff  the 
carp  with  it,  few  it  up,  wrap  it  in  ^  paper  well  buttered, 
lie  it  on  a  fpit  with  a  tape,  let  i(  roaA  for  half  aA  hpur, 
bafling  it  well  witji  butter  and  a  liide  white  wine  -,  meaQ 
time  make  a  fauce  for  it  as  follows  : — Put  an  anchovy 
m  a  ftewpan  with  a  few  pickled  mufhrooms,  half  a  piQt 
of  good  gravy,  a  table  Ipoonful  of  red  wine,  a  piece  of 
butter  and  flour,  and  ftir  it  over  the  fire  till  it  boils ; 
when  your  carp  is  roafted,  take  off  the  paper,  lay  it  in 
the  difh,  and  pour  your  fauce  over  it. 

To  drefs  a  brace  of  Carp.  Put  a  piece  of  butt-er  into 
a  flewpan,  mielt  it,  and  put  in  it  a,  large  fpodnful  pf 
flour,  keep  it  ftirring  till  it  is  fmooth ;  then  put  in  ^ 
pint  of  gravy,  a  pi^it  of  red  port  or  claret  s  a  little  horie- 
radifh  fcraped,  eight  cloves,  four  blades  of  mace,  and  a 
dozen  corjos  of  all-fpice  i  tie  them  in  a  linen  rag,  put  iq. 
alfo  a  bundle  of  fweet  herbs,  half  a  lemon,  three  ancho- 

vies. 


^  k  "k  P,  -^79 

Vies,  a  litfle  onion  chopped  very  fine ;  fe^on  mth  pep- 
per, fait,  and  kyan  pepper,  to  your  liking ;  ftew  it  half 
an  hour,  then  ftrain  it  through  a-  fieve  into  the  pan  you 
intend  to  put  your  fi(h  in.  Let  your  earp  be  well  clean- 
ed and  fcaled ;  then  put  the  fi(h  in  with  the  lauce>  and 
ftcw  them  very  gently  for  half  an  hour ;  then  turn  them, 
and  ftew  them  fifteen  minutes  longer.  Put  in  along 
vnih  your  filh  fbmc  truffles  and  morels  fcalded,  fome 
pickled  muihrooms,  an  artichoke  bottom,  and  about  a 
dozen  large  oyfters ;  fqueeze  the  juice  of  half  a  lemon, 
ftew  it  five  minutes ;  then  put  your  carp  in  the  di(h,  and 
pour  all  the  fauce  over ;  garnifli  with  fiied  fippets,  and 
the  roe  of  the  fifli  done  thus  : — Beat  the  roe  up  well 
with  the  yolks  of  two  eggs,  a  litde  flour,  a  little  lemon- 
peel  chopped  fine,  Ibme  pepper,  fait,  and  a  little  ancho- 
vy liquor.  Have  ready  a  pM  of  beef  dripping  boiling; 
drop  the  roe  in  to  be  as  big  as  a  crown  piece ;  fry  it  of 
«  Kght  brown,  and  put  it  round  the  difli,  with  fome  oy- 
fters fi^ied  in  batter,  and  fome  fcraped  horfe-radifli.  Stick 
four  filed  fippets  in  the  fiih. 

If  you  are  in  a  great  hurry,  while  the  fauce  is  making 
you  may  boil  the  fiih  with  ipring- water,  half  a  pint  of 
vinegar,  a  little  horfe-radifli,  and  a  bay  leaf.  Put  your 
fifti  in  the  diih,  and  pour  the  fauce  over  it. 

To  Jtew  Carf  white.  Scale,  gut,  and  wafh  them ; 
put  them  into  a  ftewpan  with  two  quarts  of  water,  half 
a  pint  of  white  wine,  a  litde  mace,  whole  pepper,  and 
fak,  two  onions,  a  bunch  of  fweet  herbs,  and  a  flick  of 
horfe-radifh  5  cover  the  pan  clofe,  letitftand  an  hour 
and  a  half  over  a' flow  fire^  then  put  a  gill  of  white  wine 
into  a  faucepan,  with  two  anchovies  chopped,  an  onion, 
a  little  lemdn-peel,  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  butter  rolled 

A  a  2  in 


*    T 


i»o  CARP. 

in  flour^  a  liede  thick  cream,  and  a  large  tea^cop  fuU  of 
the  liquor  the  carp  was  ftewed  in ;  boil  them  a  few  mi- 
nutes, drain  your  carp,  add  to  the  faUce  the  yolks  of  two 
eggs  mixed  with  a  little  cream ;  when  it  boils  up,  iqueeze 
in  the  juice  of  half  a  lemon  i  difh  up  your  carp,  and 
pour  your  fauce  hot  upon  it. 

Tojietv  C  ARP  brawn.  Put  a  quart  of  good  gravy  into 
the  ftewpan,  add  the  blood  of  the  carp,  (if  agreeable) 
half  a  pint  of  fmall  beer,  (if  bitter,  only  a  quarter  of  a 
pint)  a  quarter  of  a  pint  of  red  wine,  a  large  onion,  half 
a  dozen  cloves,  a  piece  of  lemon-peel  and  horfc-radilh ; 
let  them  flew  gently  till  reduced  to  the  quantity  that  is 
wanted.  Strain  the  liquor;  add  to  it  oatchup,  lemon 
juice,  fome  of  the  hard  roe  b^uifed,  kyan,  a  litde  fait, 
if  neceflary.  Simmer  tlxis ;  and,  if  not  thick  enough, 
mix  a  little  flour  fmooth  in  fome  gravy,  andboil  it  up  in 
it,  ftirring  it.  Let  the  carp  be  boiled,  and  well  drained 
on  a  cloth ;  put  it  into  the  fauce,  fimmer  it  two  or  three 
minutes.  Let  the  remainder  of  the  roe  be  mixed  with 
egg,  a  little  grated  lemon-peel  and  nutmeg,  fry  it  in  little 
cakes ;  garnifh  the  dilli  with  thefc  and  fippets,  cut  with 
three  comers,  and  fried  dry,  horfe-radifli  and  diced 
lemon. 

To  drefs  Carp  the  heji  way.  When  you  kill  your  carp, 
fave  the  blood,  fcale  and  clean  them  well ;  have  ready 
fome  rich  gravy  made  of  beef  and  mutton,  feafoned  with 
pepper,  fait,  mace,  and  onion ;  ftrain  it  off  before  you 
ftew  your  fifti  in  it  5  boll  your  carp  firft  before  you  ftew 
it  in  the  gravy.  Be  caiefui  not  to  boil  them  too  much 
before  you  put  in  die  carp ;  then  let  it  ftew  on  a  flow 
fire  about  a  quarter  of  an  hour,  thicken  the  fauce  with  a 
good  lump  of  .butter  rolled  in  flour  \  garniih  your  dilh 

with 


-CARP.-  Ill 

wkh  fried  oyftcrs,  fried  toaft  cut  three  corner  ways^  pieces 
c^  Jcmon,  fcraped  horfe-radifh^  and  the  roe  of  the  <^Urp 
cut  in  pieces,  ibme  friedj  and  the  other  boiled ;  fqueeze 
the  juice  of  a  lemon  into  the;  fauce  juft  before  you  fend 
k  up.     Diih  it  up  handibmelvj  and  very  hot. 

Carp  a  la  Jacobinb,  Put.  two  dozen  of  imall  oni-, 
jOns  blanched  in  a  ftewpan  with  a  few  fliced  truffles, ,% 
piece  of  butter,  and  a  faggot  of  parfley  and  iweet  heri>s  i 
fimmer  this  on  a  ilow  fire  till  it  catches  a  litde ;  then  add 
three  half  pints  of  white  wine,  and  put  a  carp  to  it  cut  in 
pieces,  with  a  little  broth,  pepper,  and  fait  ^  reduce  the 
lauce  i  when  ready  to  ferve,  add  a  liafon  made  of  three 
yolks  of  eggs  and  cream,  and  the  juice  of  half  a  lemon. 

To  drefs  Car?  au  Blue.  Gut  a  brace  of  carp  aliv^ 
but  neither  wafh  nor  fcale  them;  tie  them  to  a  fifh 
drainer,  and  put  them  into  a  fij(h  kettle,  and  pour  boiling 
vinegar  over  till  they  are  blue  -,  or  you  may  hold  them 
down  in  a  fifti  kettle  with  two  forks,  and  another  perfon 
pour  the  vinegar  over  them.  Put  in  a  quart  of  boiling 
Water,  a  handful  of  fait,  fome  horfe-radifli'cut  in  flices ; 
boil  them  gendy  twenty  minutes.  Put  a  fifli  plate  in  the 
dilh,  a  napkin  over  that,  and  fend  them  up  hot.  Garnifli 
with  horfe-radifh.  Boil  half  a  pint  of  cream,  and  fwccten 
it  with  fine  fugar  for  fauce,  in  a  boat  or  bafon. 

yi  ^ew  Carp  or  Tench.  Gut  and  fcale  your  fifli, 
walh  them,  and  dry  them  weH  with  a  clean  cloth  j  dredge 
them  well  with  flour,  fiy  them  in  dripping  till  f hey  are  a 
light  brown ;  then  put  them  in  a  ftewpan,  with  a  quart 
of  water,  the  fame  quantity  of  red  wine,  a  meat  Ipoonful 
of  lemon-pickle,  another  of  Jbrowning,  the  fame  of  walnut 
or  muihroom  catchup ;  a  little  mufhroom  powder,  and 
kyan  to  your  taile;  a  large  onion  ftuck  with  cloves,  and  a 

fticiv 


\%2  C  A  AR  O  t  $. 

itkk  of  horfe-^fadifh.  Cover  your  pan  clofe  to  keep  m 
the  (team  5  let  dicm  (lew  gently  over  a  flow  fire  till  your 
gravy  is  reduced  to  juft  enough  to  cover  your  fifli  in  the 
difli.  Then  put  the  fifh  on  tjie  difli  you  intend  for  ta- 
ble ;  let  the  gravy  on  die  fire,  and  thicken  it  with  flour 
and  a  large  lump  of  butter ;  boil  it  a  litde,  and  ftrain  it 
ever  your  fifti.  Garnifti  them  with  pickled  mufhroomi?, 
and  fcraped  horfe^radilh ;  put  a  bunch  of  pickled  bar- 
berries^ or  a  fprig  of  mmle  in  their  mouths,  and  fend 
them  to  table. 

It  is  a  head  difh  for  a  grand  entertainment. 

To  fricajfee  Carp  Roes.  Put  u  Kttlc  good  butter  in 
a  ftewpan,  with  a  dozen  fmall  mufhrooms,  a  flice  of 
^m,  the  (queeze  of  a  lemon,  and  a  little  bundle  of 
fweet  herbs  5  foak  it  on  a  flow  fire  for  a  fhort  rime,  then 
add  a  little  flour,  and  as  many  carp  roes  as  you  thiidc 
proper,  with  fome  good  broth;  (lew  them  about  a 
quarter  of  an  hour,  feafoning  with  pepper  and  fait; 
when  ready  to  ferve,  thicken  it  with  a  mixture  of  the 
yolks  of  two  or  three  eggs  and  cream  and  chopped  par- 
fl«y. 


CARROTS. 

To  drefs  Carrots.  Let  them  be  fcraped  very  clean, 
and  when  they  are  enough,  rub  them  in  a  clean  cloth, 
then  flice  them  into  a  plate,  and  pour  fome  melted  but- 
ter over  them.  If  they  are  young  fpring  carrots,  half 
an  hour  will  boil  them;  if  large,  an  hour;  but  old 
Sandwich  carrots  in  general  take  two  hours. 

A  Carrot  Pudding.  Scrape  a  raw  carrot  very 
clean^  and  grate  it ;  take  half  a  pound  of  the  grated 

I  carrot 


e  A  R  V  I  N  0^  i8j 

carrot  and  a  pound  of  grated  bread ;  beat  up  eight  e^s,; 
leaving  out  half  the  whites,  and  mix  the  eggs  i^ith  half 
z  pint  of  cream.  Then  ftir  in  the  bread  and  carrot,  half 
9  pound  of  frefii  butter  mdted^^  half  a  pint  of  fack»  thref 
4)QQnfuis  of  oraoge-flower  water,  and  a  nutmeg  grated^. 
Sweecea  t^  your  palate.  Mik  all  wcU  together,  and  if  it 
is  not  diia  enough,  ftir  in  a  litde  new  nriilk  q^  preanv 
Ijct  it  be  of  a  moderate  thickneis,  h^y  a  pufiF  pafte  all 
lyyer  die  difh,  and  poiu*  in  the  ingredients.  It  will  tak^ 
M.  hour's  baking.  |f  you  would  boil  it,  you  mufi:  mel( 
h^tO^T,  and  put  in  whit^  wine  and  lugar. 

Afiother^  Scrape  three  or  four  carrots  very  final!  f 
mvL  them  with  the  crumb  of  two  penny  loaves  grated ;. 
|»ur  over  du&  a  quart  of  boiling  cream ;  when  cold,  ad4 
jfemni  yolks  of  eggs,  acid  four  whites  well  beaten,  a  quar* 
ter  of  a  pound  of  fugar,  fome  fait,  nutmeg,  and  a  litdc 
brandy^    Bake  it  an  hour  with  puff  pafte. 


CARVING. 

To  be  able  to  difled  a  fowl,  or  cut  up  a  jcrnit  of 
meat,  is  one  of  thole  uieful  parts  ofpraSkal  knowledge 
with  which  every  perfon  ought  to  be  acquainted.  It  is 
very  unpleafing  to  foe  any  one  hacking  for  half  an  hour 
about  the  bone  of  a  fowl,  and  befpattering  half  the  com- 
pany widi  the  fauce :  but  with  die  afliftance  of  the  re« 
marks  we  are  now  about  to  make,  the  exaft  delineation 
of  the  principal  things  where  any  dexterity  is  requifitc, 
(in  the  annexed  plate)  and  an  attcndon  to  the  manner 
in  nrhich  gOQ4  covers  proceed^  any  perfon  may,  widi  a 

little 


184.  CARVING. 

Kttlc  praftice,  readily  acquire  a  competent  knowledge 
of  carving.    • 

Fowls.     Figure  i,  is  a  fowl  crufled  for  boiling;  but 

whether  boiled  or  roaftcd,  the  bufincfs  of  carving  is  the 

^iaoie ;  t^  perform  which  the  fork  Ihoiild  be  fixed  in  the 

breaft,  where  the  two  dots  appear,  by  which  you  have 

a  perfeft  command  of  the  fowl ;  flice  down  the  breaft  in 

* 

die  lines  a^  *,  fig.  i,  then  proceed  to  take  off  the  leg 
Oft  one  fide  in  the  direftion  dy  f,  fig.  i,  or  in  the  dotted 
line  by  dy  fig.  2,  which  rcprefents  the  fowl  lying  on  its 
fide  with  its  back  to  the  carver  5  then  cut  off  the  wing 
on  the  fame  fide,  r,  rf,  fig.  i,  or  Cyhyb^  fig.  2.  But  in 
taking  off  the  wing  be  very  attentive  to  enter  at  the 
notch  ay  fig.  2,  as  by  cutting  lower  down  you  will  come 
againft  the  neck  bone  at  ^  j  the  wing  muft  be  feparated 
from  the  neck  bone :  proceed  in  the  fame  manner  with 
the  correiponding  leg  and  wing,  and  then  take  the  flic^ 
from  the  breaft,  which  you  had  before  fliced  down. 
The  merry-diought  is  next  to  be'cut  off  in  the  Ymtfyg^ 
fig-  i>  t>y  pafllng  the  knife  under  it  tpwards  the  neck. 

In  fig.  2,  k  and  i  reprefent  the  wing  and  leg  cut  off| 
the  next  thing  is  to  take  off  the  neck  bones  defcribed  at 
/,  which  is  to  he  done  by  putting  in  the  knife  at  g, 
and  palling  it  under  the  broad  part  of  the  bone  in  the 
line^g-,  hy  then  lift  it  up,  and  break  off  the  end  of  the 
Ihorter  part  of  the  bane  which  fattens  to  the  breaft  bone, 
Thefe  parts  being  feparated  from  the  carcafe,  divide  the 
breaft  from  the  back  by  cutting  through  the  tender  riba 
on  each  fide  from  the  neck,  quite  down  to  the  tail  or 
vent  5  then  laying.the  back  on  your  plate,  fix  your  fork 
tinder  the  rump,  place  the  edge  of  your  knife  in  the  line 
b^  c,  r,  and  preffing  it  down,  lift  up  the  tail  or  lower 

part 


TOVTL  . 


-^•<-^^^<!miy  i^  '(Part't^^oJ 


AHoASTUB  Pig 

Pig- 4 


( ^i^/^yCr /n.    i^    T9a7/ify-ni 


ir 


CARVING,  185 

part  of  the  back,  and  it  will  divide  eafily  in  that  line ; 
then  laying  the  lower  part  with  the  rump  &om  you,  cut 

« 

off  the  fide  bones  in  the  dire£bion  e,  f,  and  the  opera- 
tion is  finiihed. 

In  a  boiled  fowl  the  leg  bones  are  bent  inwards,  and 
tucked  within  the  flcin  near  the  bottom  of  the  belly ;  in 
-"  a  roaft  one,  the  legs  are  brought  to  crofs  each  other  juft 
at  the  apron  5  in  both,  the  head,  and  Ihank  bone  of  the 
legs  are  cut  off;  but  in  all  kinds  of  game  or  wild  foWl 
they  are  left  on,  the  head  being  tucked  under  one  of  the 
wings,  and  the  fhanks,  after  meeting  at  the  apron,  are  • 
bent  a  little  back  and  left  hanging.  Pheafants,  par- 
tridges, &c.  are  all  cut  up  in  the  fame  manner  as  fowls; 
but  before  they  are  font  to  table,  the  fkewers  are  drawn 
cut. 

The  moft  cfteemed  parts  of'  a  fowl  are  the  breaft, 
wings,  and  merry-thought;  the  neck  and  fide  bones  are 
pleaiant  picking ;  the  legs  are  rather  coarfe,  but  in  a 
boiled  fowl  or  chicken  are  very  juicy,  efpecially  the 
thigh,  which  may  be  feparated  from  the  drum-ftick  at 
the  joint  /,  by  introducing  the  knife  in  the  hollow,  and 
turning  the  thigh  bone  back  from  the  leg. 

A  Pheafant  is  feldom  entirely  cut  up,  but  the  parts 
are  feparated  as  they  become  wanted.     Many  perfons* 
like  the  head  on  account  of  the  brains ;  but  the  choiceft 
parts  are  the  fame  as  thofe  of  a  fowl. 

A  Partridge  is  alfo  cut  up  in  the  above  manner ;  the 
breafl,  merry-thought,  and  wings  are  the  prime  parts,  ■ 
and  the  tip  of  the  wing  is  particularly  efleemed  as  a 
choice  morfel. 

A  Turkey^  whether  roafted  or  boiled,  is  truflfed  and 
cut  \jp  exaftly  like  a  fowl,  except  that  it  has  no  merry- 

Vo^.  1%     '  ,         E  b  thought. 


iS$  CARVING, 

jthoug^tj  dxe  neck  being  taken  awa^j  and  the  liottov 
tinder  the  breaft  ftufFed  widi  force-meat^  which  t$  to  he 
cut  in  thin  dices  in  the  fame  direftion  as  thofe  from  the 
breaft :  the  beft  parts  are  the  white  oneSj  namely,  die 
breaft,  wings,  and  neck  bones ;  but  it  is  not  cuftomary 
to  cut  up  more  than  the  breaft,  or,  if  rcquiiite:)  to  taker 
off  the  wings. 

J  Goose,  fig.  3,  is  feldom  quite  diJHefted,  but  when 
neceflary,  the  following  is  the  metfiod  a  Turn  the  neck 
towards  you,  and  cut  two  or  three  flices  oq  eaph  fide 
the  breaft,  in  the  lines  a,  by  quite  to  the  bone,  and  take 
them  ofi^i  then  proceed  to  take  off  the  leg  by  turning 
(he  goolc  on  one  fide,  as  you  ^o  a  fowl,  putting  the  fi^rk 
through  the  finall  end  of  the  kg  bone  at  a,  preis  it  clofe 
to  the  body,  which  raifes  the  joint  d  from  the  body^^ 
where  you  muft  enter  the  knife,  pafling  it  undier  the 
leg,  in  the  diredion  d^  e^  which  will  eafily  ieparate,  if 
the  goofe  be  a  young  one,  by  turning  the  leg  back  at 
the  joint  e.  Take  off  the  wing  by  placing  the  fi>rk  in 
the  fmall  end  of  the  pinion,  preffipg  it  clofe  to  the  body,^ 
and  beginning  tp  cut  at  the  notch  c,  which,  however, 
it  is  fometimes  a  very  nice  thing  to  hit ;  ^ny  higher, 
comes  againft  the  neck  bone^  but  a  little  pradice  wiU 
foon  teach  the  difference. 

When  the  legs  and  wings  have  be^  taken  offi  cut 
out'the  apron,  /,  ^,  g^  takeoff  the  merry-thought,  i,  h^ 
and  proceed  in  all  pther  refpefts  a£  in  the  diredtions  for 
f  arying  a  fowl. 

The  flices  from  the  breaft,  the  flefhy  part  of  the  wing 
t^cn  from  the  pinions,  the  thigh  divided  fi-om  the 
druirirftick;  the  pinions,  and  the  fide  bones,  are  all 

mu<A 


CARVlKG,.  i«7i 

tapach  li&ed ;  the*carcaib  in  geha'al  of  a  yOung  gM>fe  is 
mtryjvocf  and  fiivory,  aod  afibrds  good  picking. 

GreenGeefi  and  Ducky  s^rc  drefled  and  oit  up  in  cvcrf 
rcfpeft  die  fame  as  in  die  foregoing  dire^ohs. 

A  Pio.  This  is  partly  diffefted  by  the  cook  before 
it  is  font  to  tables  the  head  is  cut  off,  the  body  fpiit 
down  die  back^  and  the  diih  gamiihed  with  ears  and 
cfaapst  as  in  fig.*4.  At  table  the  leg  muft  be  foparated 
from  the  carcafo,  by  pafling  the  knifo  under  it  in  die 
circular  direction  c,ij  c  ^  the  fhoulder,  g,  is  feparated 
in  the  fame  manneri  aild  the  ribs  are  divided  in  the 
line  ay  b.  The  moft  delitrate  part  is  die  mangular  piecfe 
of  the  neck  in  the  line  /,  g.  Reces  may  be  cut  froni 
die  \e%  and'  flioulden 

if  Hahe.  This  aiiimal  is  tru£M  and  font  to  table  as 
reprefeiited  in  fig«  5.  A  ikewer  is  pafied  through  the 
mbudi  at  a  into  the  body>  to  keep  the  head  in  its  place, 
two  others  throt^  the  rdots  of  the  ears,  as  fhewn  at  byf^ 
10  keep  them  erc^  ^  fkciwers  are  alfo  run  through  the 
Iboulders  and  legs,  the  points  of  which  appear  at  d  and 
0^,  and' they  geiferalLy  remain  tiU  the  Hare  is  cut  up^ 

The  u&al  ahd  moft  ready  way  of  cutting  up  a  harc^ 
when  z  y<mng  oriCy  is  to  begin  with  your  knife  at  the 
point  gy  and  oit  ftnEtt  down  to  the  rump  bone  in  the 
line^yiv  on  oncf  fide  the  back  bone;  cutting  it  in  the 
jame  ramner  on  the  other  fide,  and  at  an  eiqual  diftance 
fiom  the  bade  bone.  The  body  being  thus  feparated 
into  diree,  the  back  may  be  divided  into  ferer^  pieces, 
f,  *;  the  fcgs  .may  be  eafily  taken  fi-om  the  body,  and 
the  fliooklers  will  come  off  in  the  line  r,  /,  g.  When 
the  head  is  divided,  it  fliould  be  taken  on  a  clean  plate, 
and  held  fteady  with  a  fork,  turning  the  nofe  towards 

B  b  a  you^ 


i%t  CARVIN/G. 

you^  and  putting  the  point  of  the  knife  into  the  fkulf 
between  the' ears,   forcing  ic  down,* and  cutdng  with.* 
fbme  degree  of  ftrength  quite  down  thiough  to'the  nofc. 

An  old  hare  cannot  be  carved  in  this  manner  with  any 
dcgi'ee'  of  cafe ;  it  is  therefore  beft  to  put  your  knife 
pretty  clofe  to  the  back  bone,  turning  the-  back  of  the 
hare  towards  you,  in  order  to  hit  the  joint  between  the 
hip  and  thigh  bone ;  cut  both  the  legs  off  in  this  man* 
ner,  then  cut  a  long  narrow  (lice  or  two  on  each  fide  of 
the  back  bone  in  the  line  g^  h;  divide  the  back  bone 
into  as  many  parts  as  you  think  proper,  feparating  them 
by  the  feveral  joints  in  the  back,  but  which  may  require 
Ibme.  attention  and  patience  to  accomplilh. 

The  back  is  certainly  in  moft  eitimation;  but  th« 
fiioulders,  though  generally  Bloody^  and  the  legs,  are 
much  liked  by  many  people.  The  belly,  below  the 
letter  /,  is  ftuffed  with  pudding,  which  fhould  be  dif- 
tributed  with  the  parts  of  the  hare :  the  ears  Ibould  be 
cut  off  at  the  roots,  and  if  roafted  criip,  are  generally 
thought  nice. 

The  Rabbit  is  iirequently  thifled  like  the  hare,  though 
the  head  is  alio  fometimes  ttimed  on  one  fide,  and  ikew- 
Ciced  CO  the  neck^  and  is  cut  up  in  the  fame  manner: 
the  ears  are  taken  ofi^  before  the  rabbit  is  farved  up. 

Thi  Pigeon,  being  a  fniall  bird,  is  feldom  otherwi(c 
carved  than  by  dividing  it  in  two,  either  by  cutting  it 
ia  a  right  line  firom  the  neck  through  the  breaft  to  the 
rump,  or  by  entering  a  knife  it  the  bottom  of  the  breaft 
'and  cutting  in  a  flant  dire&ion  on  each  fide  to  the 
upper  part  pf  the  thigh,  between  that  and  the  wing, 
bringing  the  knife  through  the  back:   the  croup  or 

lower  part,  with  the  thigh,  1$  im&  preferred* 

Fish 


CAT  A  FLA  SM/ 


iSSf 


.  Fish  require  t?ut  Jitde  carving,  and  fliould  be  dways 
cut  with  a  filh  trowel;    the  middle  or  thickeft  part 
of  a  filh  is  juftly  accounted  the  niceft     In  fdmon  the 
belly,  pwt  is  the  fatteft.     Mackerel  fliould  be' opened 
along  the  back  with  the  trowel,  and  the  whole  fide 
taken  dSy  but  not  too  near  the  head,  for  the  meat  about 
the  ^s  is  generally  black  and  ill<fla:vouredi  and  the 
meat  about  ■  the  tails  of  mofb  fifh  being  ufually  thin,  is 
but  little  efl^emed ;  nor  do  jxiany  like  the  head  of  a  filh,  * 
^cept  that  of  ^  carp,  the  palaoe  of  which  is  thought 
the  greateft  delicacy  of  the  whole.    A  cod's  head  and 
Ihoulders  is  indeed  another  exception,  but  it  is  a  very 
hiandlbme  dilh  of  itfelf ;  the  parts  about  the  back  on 
the  Ihoulders  are  firm  and  good,  and  there  are  a  great 
lyany  delicate  parts,  and  Ibme  fine  kernels  about  the 
head.     Among' turbot  eaters  the  fins  are  thought  a  de- 
licate part» 

We  have  endeavoured  to  give  Ibme  plain  dire6Kon$ 
for  carving  thole  diflies  where '  difficulties  were  mofl: 
likely  to  occur. ; .  Plain  joints  of  meat  i|re  fo  familiar  and 
cafy,  as  to  require  only  a  good  carving  knife  and  a  (light 
degree  of  attention*  To  thole  who  wilh  for  more  infor- 
mation, we  \yould  recommend  a  litde  publication^ '  en- 
tid^j  Th£  Honours  of  the  Table.    ' 


mm 


CATAPLASM. 

This  is  a  medical  term  for  Poultices ;  for  in  eflFeft  Car 
taplafixis  pofieis  no  fuperior  nor  other  virtues :  they  are 
intended  to  difpel  or  drive  away  tumours  and  IwcUings, 
fTj  when  that  cannot  be  effected,  to  ripen  them. 


%pb         cataplasm: 

I.  DiscuTiENT  or  DisPELLrNo  Cataplasw*  Take 
€/ barley  meal,  fix  ounces;  frelh  hemlock  kaves  bruifed^ 
two  ounces;  vinegar,  a  fufiicient  qoancicy.  Boil  the 
itteal  and  henilock  in  die  vinegar  for  a  little,  and  then 
add  two  drams  of  the  fugar  of  lead. 

IL  Ripening  Cataplasm.    Take  of  white  lily  root, , 
&ur  ounces ;  good  figs  and  raw  onions,  bntifed,  of  each 
one  ounce ;  yellow  bafilicnm  ointment,  two  ounces ; 
g;um  galbanum,  half  an  ounce  ^  lintfeed  meal,  as  much 
as  neceflory.    Boil  the  ropts  alotig  with  die  figs  in  a  fuf^  - 
fkient  quandty  of  water ;  then  bruile  and  add  to  them  ' 
the  other  ingredients,  fb  as  to  form  the.  whole  into  a  fbft 
cataplafm.    The  galbanum  ninft  be  previoully  di&lved 
with  the  yolk  of  an  ^g. 

Where  it  is  neceflary  to  promote  iuppuration,  or  ripen 
ai|y  tumour,  this  cataplafixi  may  be  uied  by  thoie  who 
ch^ife  to  be  at  the  trouble  and  expence  of  making  it.  < 
But  perhaps  no  appHcadbn  will  be  found  more  proper 
fat  this  puipofe  thaii  a  poultice  of  bread  and  miUc,  with 
a  fufficieiit  quantity  of  either  boiled  or  raw  onioti  in  it^ 
and  foftened  with  oil  or  frefh  butter. 

Sinapisms  are  employed  to  recal  the  blood  and  ipirits 
to  a  weak  part,  as  in  the  palfy  and  atrophy.  They  are 
alfo  of  iervice  in  deep  feated  pains,  as  the  (ciadca,  &c. 
When  the  gout  feizes  the  head  or  the  ftomach,  they  arc 
applied  to  the  feet,  to  bring  the  diforder  to  thcfc  parts. 
They  are  likewife  applied  to  the  patient's  foles  in  the 
low  rfate  of  fevers.  They  fhould  not  be  fufFered  to  lie 
on,  however,  tiU  they  have  raifed  blifters,  but  till  the 
parts  become  red,  a^d  will  continue  fo  when  prefied 
with  the  finger. 

Th< 


C  A  15  L  I  F  L  O  W  E  R  S.         f^t 

The  lioapifin  b  only  a  poultice  made  with  vkiegar 
kftead  of  milk,  and  rendered  warm  and  ftimuVid^g  bf 
the  addition  of  muftvd,  horfe-radilh,  or  garlic. 

The  conamon  finapifm  is  made  by  taking  crumb  of 
bread  and  muftard-ieed  in  powder,  of  each  equal  quanti*- 
ties ;  ftrong  vinegar  as  much  as  is  fufficientj  and  mix« 
jng  diem  ib  as  to  make  a  poultice* 

When  finapifm?  of  a  more  ftimulating  nature  arr 
ws^ited,  a  li^rie  brMifcd  ga^rlic  may  be  added  to  the 
*ovc 

CAUDLE, 

White  Caudle.  Mix  four  Ipoonfuls  of  oatmeal  in 
{wo  quarts  of  water,  with  a  blade  or  two  of  mace^  ami 
a  piece  of  lemon-peel  j  let  it  boil  about  a  quarter  of  an 
hcHir,  flcimming  it  well,  and  ftirring  it  often,  and  be 
careful  not  p  let  it  boil  over,  then  ftrain  it  through  z 
coarfe  fieve.  When  you  ufe  it,  fweeten  it  to  your  tafte^ 
grate  in  a  little  nutmeg,  and  what  wine  you  think 
proper  5  and,  if  it  be  not  for  a  fick  perlbn,  iqueezeiia 
^he  juice  of  a  lemon. 

Brown  Caudle.  Make  your  gruel  as  above  with 
fix  fpoonfuls  of  oatmeal,  and  ftrain  it  j  then  add  a  quart 
of  ale  that  is  not  bitter,  boil  it,  and  fweeten  to  your 
palate,  adding  a  pint  of  white  wine,  or  half  a  pint  of 
brandy.  When  wine  or  brandy  is  not  ufed,  let  it  bo- 
b?lf  ^e. 

CAULIFLOWER  S. 

fodrefs  Cauliflowers.    Gut  off  all  the  green  part, 
%ad  thei)  (;ut  the  fiowefs  into  four,  and  lay  them  irf 

water 


t 


194  CELERY. 

water  for  an  hour,  have  ready  fome  milk  and  watcl* 
boiling,  put  in  the  cauliflower,  and  be  fure  to  fkim  the 
faucepanwelL  When  the  ftalks  arc  tender,  take  them 
carcfaUy  up  and  put  them  into  a  cullender  to  drain; 
'  dien-  put  a  fpoonful  of  water  in  a  ftewpan  wi;:h  fomc 
flour,^  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  butter,  (hake  it  round  till 
it  is  nielted,  with  fome  pepper  and  fajt,  then  take  half 
the  cauliflower,  and  cut  as  you  would  for  pickling;  lay  it 
into  the  ftewpan,  turn  it  and  fliake  the  pan  round: 
ten  minutes  will  do  it.  Lay  the  ftewed  in  the  middle 
of  your  plate,  and  the  boiled  round  it ;  pour  the  butter 
you  did  it  in  over  it. 

Others  again,  only  cut  the  ftalks  ofl^,  leaving  on  a 
fittle  green,  tjien  boil  them  in  fpring  water  and  fait; 
about  fifteen  minutes  will  do  them.  If  boiled  too  foift 
they  will  be  fpoiled. 

"To  ragoo  Cauliflowers.  Pick  your  cauliflowers  as 
if  intended  for  pickling;  ftew  them  till  they  are  enough 
in  a  rich  brown  cullis,  feafoned  with  pepper  and  fait; 
lay  them  in  a  difh  and  pour  the  cullis  over  them.  Let 
fome  fprigs  of  the  cauliflower  be  boiled  very  white  tjo 
lay  round  them.     See  Picklikg. 


CELERY, 

A  falad  herb  of  very  general  ufe ;  in  eating  of  which 
you  (hould  be  careful  of  a  fmall  red  worm,  that  is  often  ' 
lurking  among  the  long  ftalks  near  the  root. 

^0  fry  Celery.  When  boiled,  dijp  it  in  water,  fry  it 
in  hog's  lard  of  a  light  brown ;  lay  it  in  a  diib  and  pour 
naelted  butter  over  it. 

A  Ragoo  ofCsLERY*  Cut  the  blanched  part  of  the 
celery  into  lengths,  boil  it  till  very  tender^  fry  and  drain 


•  » 


CHAMBERMAID.  193 

hi  flour  it,  put  into  it  fome  rich  gravy,  a  very  little  red 
wine,  &lt)  pepper,  nutmeg,  and  catchup,  and  boil  it  up. . 
Jnotber  «wy.  Take  off  the  outfidcs  of  your  heads  of 
celoy,  cut  the  blanched  parts  in  pieces;  boil  them  in  a 
tolfing  pan  with  a  little  veal  gravy  till  they  are  tender, 
then  add  a  fpoonful  of  lemon  pickle,  one  of  white  wine, 
and  a  little  fait,  tDlcken  with  flour  and  butter,  and  fervc. 
up  with  fippets. 


CHAMBERMAID, 

The  bufinefs  of  a  chambermaid  lies  moftly  in  tha 
biri-roonns,  and  the  following  is  her  employment :  As 
flic  is  generally  the  laft  in  going  to  reft,  fomc  indulgence 
is  of  courfe  dlowed  in  the  morning ;  flid  fliould  however 
be  early  enough  up  to  do  her  ncceflary  bufinefs  of 
fweeping  drefling-rooms,  or  getting  brcakfaft  ready  aC 
the  appointed  hour. 

She  fliould  take  the  opportunity  of  the  family  beings 
at  breakfaft  to  open  all  the  bed-chamber  win4ows> 
throw  up  all  the  faflies,  and  put  the  roorhs  in  order. 
Beds  (with  thofe  who  pay  attention  to  their  health) 
fliould  not  be  made  fo  fbon  as  people  rife  fix)m  them, 
but  ought  to  be  turned  down  and  expofed  to  the  frefli 
wr  for  Ibme  time;  ftie  might  therefore  take  the  oppor^* 
tunity  of  firft  emptying  the'  bottles,  baibns,  &c,  which 
ought  to  be  well  waftied,  thoroughly  rubbed,  clcanedj 
and  rinfed,  and  then  filled  with  frefli  water ;  flie  might 
alio  clean  the  grates,  lay  the  fires,  when  ncceflary,  &c. 
leaving  her  bcd-mak,ing  laft,  except  the  fweeping  her 
bed-rooms.  Night  chairs  ought  to  be  examined  i  and 
pots,  bafons,  &c«  ought  never  to  ht  left  on  (tair-heada 

Vol.  I.  C  q  or 


r 


tf4  C  H  A  M  B  £  ti  M  A  1  a 

or  at  chamber-door^-— it  is  extremely  indecent;  liof 
Ihould  pieces  of  wet  foap,  or  wet  diih-cloths  be  left  on 
mahogany  or  painted  bdards  >  it  ftains  the  one^  and  de- 
ftroys  the  other. 

In  making  the  beds,  care  fhould  be  taken  not  to  ibii 
"the  ojrtains  or  bed-linen ;  the  bedllead  fhould  be  drawn 
afide  and  fwept  under  -,  and  in  ftimmer  frequendy  rub^ 
bed  with  a  wet  mop,  as  the  beft  prefervative  againd 
fleas  i  for  which  purpose  the  blankets  fhould  alfo  be 
well  looked-  Nighti-cloaths,  &c*.  fhould  be  folded  and 
laid  away ;  all  litter  properly  difpofed  of,  and  the  room 
thoroughly  dufted  and  fet  to  rights.  The  windows  o* 
4II  chambers  fhouM  be  kept  open  during  the  day>  ua-« 
lfi{s  in  wet  or  damp  weather. 

Whenever  a  mafter  or,  miftrels  is  done  dreiling,  th« 
chambermaid  ought  immediately  to  fwcep  and  duft  tho 
Itpartmcrjt,  fetting  alfo  every  thing  in  right  order.  An 
hour  or  two  before  bed-time  fhe  fhould  attend  to  the 
^effing-rooitis  and  bed-chambers^  taking  care  that  the 
windows  are  all  properly  fhut  and  made  fafl>  lighting 
fires  if  neceflary,  and  putting  all  utcnfils  in  their  refpcc- 
tive  places^  In  ufing  a  warming  pan,  nothing  but 
clear  coals  ought  to  be  put  m,  fufficiently  hot  to  warm 
the  bed  without  fcorching  the  ffaeets,  and  it  fhould  be 
carefully  wiped  from  dufl  above  and  below,  and  when  put 
into  the  bed^  fhould  .be  kept  by  the  hand  againft  the  up* 
per  cloaths,  without  refting  in  any  particular  fpot,  and 
not  fufFered  to  Batten  the  bed  i  when  done  with,  it  fhould 
be  placed  in  the  chimney,  for  fetting  it  on  boaixls  or 
carpets  is  dangerous  and  deflru&ive. 
.  On  retiring  to  her  own  apartment,  fhe  fhould  al\yay& 
place  her  tinder-bo]^^  candle,  &:c.  n^ar  her  bedi)dc>  that 

Bit 


C    H    A    ft    D    O    O    N    S.        19J 

flie  may  be  able  to  run  With  all  poflTiblc  hafte,  ihould  ihe 
be  rung  for  iii  the  night,  when  a  moment's  delay  may  be 
of  the  ucmoft  confequence. 

Cleanlinefs  is  a  duty  ib  incumbent  on  fervants  in  ge« 
neral,  thait  we  IbaU  not  fay  it  is  particularly  fb  in  a  cham- 
bemiaid;  eipecially  when  wages  are  now  fo  large>  and 
women's  apparel  fb  cheip,  as  that  a  fufficient  change  of 
decent  drefs  may  be  very  well  afforded^ 


CHARDOONS. 

To  drefs  Chardooks.  Cut  your  chardoons  into  pieces 
du'ee  inches  long,  boil  them  in  hard  water  with  a  bit  of 
fuet,  a  little  vinegar,  and  a  (lice  of  lemon  j  let  them  boi* 
till  tender  j  then  pick  off  the  firings  anid  Ikins,  put  them 
in  a  ftewpan,  with  Ibme  white  gravy,  and  a  flice  of  ham 
and  veal,  and  (tew  them  an  hour  -,  then  take  out  the  ham 
and  veai,  adding  a  lump  of  butter  and  flour;  pepper  and 
fait  to  your  tafte,  and  a  tea-cup  full  of  cream  -,  let  them 
juft  fiouner,  and  ferve  them  up  hot*  The  cream  may  be 
left  out  for  a  change^ 

fofiy  Chardoons*  Cut  them  about  fix  inches  long^ 
and  ffaring  themt  then  boil  'them  till  tender.  Take  them 
out»  have  fome  butter  melted  in  your  ftewpans  flour 
them,  and  fry  them  brown*  Send  0iem  in  a  difh,  with 
melted  butter  in  a  cup.  Or  you  may  tie  them  up  in 
bundles,  ^d  boil  them  like  afparagus.  Put  a  toaft 
under  them*  and  pour  a  little  melted  butter  over  them . 
or  cut  diem  into  dice,  and  boil  them  like  peas.  Toi& 
them  up  in  butter,  and  fend  them  up  hot. 

Another  way.    Boil  them  till  they  are  tender,  then  dip 

ibem  in  butter  made  of  a  fpoonful  of  flour  and  ale;  fry 

*         £  e  2  them 


1^6 


CHARS. 


them  in  a  pan  of  boiling  lard^  pour  melted  butter  over 
them,  and  ferve  them  up. 

Jnotber  way.    Boil  them  as  above  dire6ted>  tofe  them 

m 

up  in  a  little  gravy,  fome  catchup,  kyan,  and  fait, 
thicken  with  a  bit  of  butter,  mixed  with  a  little  flour  5 
adding  a  little  juice  of  lemon. 

Chardoons  a-la^Fromage.  String  them,  cut  thenx 
an  inch  long,  ftew  them  in  a  litde  red  wine  till  they  are 
tender ;  feafbn  with  pepper  and  fait,  and  thicken  it  widi  a 
piece  of  butter  rolled  in  flour ;  then  pour  them  into  your 
diih,  Iqueeze  fome  juice  of  orange  over  it,  then  fcrape 
Farmelan  or  Chefliire  theefe  all  over  them  5  brown  with 
a  cheefe-iron,  and  ferve  up  quick  and  hot. 


CHARS. 

This  fifh  is  chiefly  met  with  in  the  rivers  in  Lanca- 
Ihire ;  it  is  Ipotted  like  a  trout,  and  about  feventeen  or 
eighteen  inches  long.  They  are  generally  potted,  and 
frequently  in  that  ftate  fent  as  prefents. 

Td  pot  Chars.  Clean  them  well,  cut  off  the  heads, 
tails,  and  fins,  lay  them  in  rows  in  a  long  baking-pan, 
and  cover  them  with  butter;  when  they  are  enough^ 
take  them  out  with  a  fork,  and  lay  them  on  a  coarfc 
cloth  to  drain.  When  quite  cold,  feafon  them  well,  and 
lay  them  clofe  in  the  pot ;  then  take  off^  the  butter  they 
were  baked  in  clear  fix)m  the  gravy  of  the  fifli,  and  fet 
it  in  a  dilh  before  the  fire ;  when  melted,  pour  this  cla- 
rified butter  over  them,  and  let  them  be  covered  with  it« 


CHEESE^ 


[    197    ] 

# 

C    XT    £    £    S    £• 

A  fort  of  lood  prepared  from  curdled  mflk,  purged 
from  the  ferum  or  whey,  aqd  afterwards  dried  for  ufe. 

Cheefe  differs  in  quality  according  as  it  is  made  from 
new  or  Ikimmed  milk,  from  the  curd  which  feparattt  d 
itfelf  upon  Handing,  or  that  which  is  more  fpeedily  pro^i- 
duced  by  the  addition  of  rennet.  Cream  alfo  affords  a 
kind  of  cheele,  but  quite  fat  and  butyraceous,  and  which 
does  not  keep  long. 

As  a  food,  phylicians  condemn  the  too  free  ufe  of 
cheefe.  When  new,  it  is  extremely  difficult  of  digeflionj 
when  old,  it  becomes  acrid  and  hot,  and,  from  Dr.  Per^ 
civaFs  experiments,  evidehdy  promotes  fcorbutic  difor- 
ders.  It  is  a  common  remark^  that  old  cheefe  digef^ 
every  thing,  yet  it  is  left  undigefted  itfelf  j  but  this  is 
without  any  fblid  foundation.  Cheefe  made  from  the 
milk  of  fheep,  digefts  fooner  than  that  from  the  milk  of 
cows,  but  it 'is  Icfs  nourifhing;  that  from  the  milk  of 
goits  digefts  fooner  than  either,  but  is  alfo  the  leaft 
nourifhing.  In  general,  it  is  a  kind  of  food  fit  only  for 
the  laborious,   or  thofe  whofc  organs  of  digeftion  arc 

ffat>hg. 

Every  country  has  places  noted  for  this  commodity ; 
Aus,  Ghefter  and  Gloucefter  cheefe  arc  famous  in  En^ 
land;  and  the  Parmefan  cheefe  is  in  no  lefs  repute 
abroad,  efpecially  in  France.  This  fort  of  cheefe  is  en- 
tirely made  of  fweet  cow-milk;  but  at  Rochfort,  in 
Languedoc,  they  make  it  ofewe*s-milk;  and  in  other 
places  it  is  ufual  to  add  goat  or  ewe's-milk  in  a  certain 
proportion  to  that  of  the  cow.  There  is  likewife  a  kind 
•f  medicated  cheefe>  made  by  intimately  mixing  the 

a  expreflfcd 


i9«  CHEESE/ 

exprcflcd  juice  of  certain  herbs,  as  fage,  balm,  mint^ 
fee.  wkh  the  curd  before  it  is  fafhioned  into  a  cheefei* 

$efi  f^efbod  of  making  Chejsse  in  England.  The  double 
Gloucefter  is  a  cheeie  that  pleaies  ^moft  every  palate^ 
The  beft  of  this  kind  is  made  from  the  new,  ch*  (as  it  is 
called  in  that  and  adjoining  counties)  covered  milk.  An 
inferior  Con  is  mgde  from  what  is  called  half  covered  milk  s 
though  when  any  of  thefe  cheefcs  turn  out  to  he  good^ 
people  are  deceived,  and  often  purchafe  them  for  the 
beft  covered  milk  cheefe  j  but  fanners  who  are  honeft  have 
them  damped  with  a  piece  of  wood  made  in  the  fhape  of 
a  heart,  fo  that  any  per(bn  may  know  them* 

It  will  be  every  farmer's  intereft,  (if  he  has  a  fufficient 
number  of  cows)  to  make  a  large  cheefe  from  one  meal*$ 
milk :  this,  when  brought  in  warm,  will  be  eafily  chan^ 
•ged  or  turned  with  the  rennet  j  but  if  the  morning  or 
night's  milk  be  mixed  wifh  that  which  is  frelh  from  the 
cow,  it  will  be  a  longer  time  before  it  turns,  nor  wilj 
it  change  fometimes  without  being  heated  over  the  fire. 
by  which  it  often  gets  duft  or  foot  or  fmoke,  which  will 
jgive  the  cheefe  a  very  difagreeable  flavour. 

When  the  milk  is  turned,  the  whey  fhould  be  care-^ 
folly  ftrained  from  the  curd.  The  curd  fhould  be  broken 
fmall  with  the  hands ;  and  when  it  is  equally  broken,  it 
mufl  be  put,  by  litde  at  a  time?,  into  the  vat,  carefully 
breaking  it  as  it  is  put  in.  The  vat  fhould  be  filled  an 
inch  or  more  above  the  brim,  that  when  the  whey  is 
prcfied  out  it  may  not  fhrink  below  the  brim  j  if  it  does 
ithe  cheefe  will  be  Worth  very  litde.  But  firft,  before  the 
{:urd  is  put  in,  a  cheefe  cloth  or  Ibainer  0iould  be  laid 
at  the  bottom  of  the  vat ;  and  this  (hould  be  fb  large, 
*that  when  the  vat  is  filled  with  the  curd^  the  ends  of  the 

cloth 


C  li  E  E  S  fi.  »99 

doth  may  turn  again  over  the  top  of  it.  When  this'  }s 
done,  it  fhould  be  taken  to  the  pre(s,  an4  there  remain^ 
for  the  ipace  of  two  hours ;  vhen  it  ihould  be  turnedj 
and  hav€  a  clean  cloth  put  under  it,  arid  turned  over  aa 
before  -,  it  muft  then  be  prefled  again,  and  remain  in  the 
prels  fix  or  eight  hours ;  when  it  fhould  again  be  turned 
and  nibbed  on  each  fide  with  fait.  After  this  it  nnufi  be 
preflfed  again  for  the  fpace  of  twelve  or  fourteen  houra 
more,  when,  if  any  of  the  edges  proje^,  they  ftiould  be 
pared  oflT:  it  may  then  be  put  on  a  dry  board,  where  ic 
fiiould  be  regularly  turned  every  day.  It  is  a  good  way 
to  have  three  or  four  holes  bored  round  the  lower  part 
of  the  vat,  that  the  whey  may  drain  fo  perfeftly  fi*om  the 
cheeie  as  not  the  leafi  particle  of  it  itiay  remain. 

The  prevailing  opinion  of  the  people  of  Gloucefter-* 
fliirc,  and  the  neighbouring  counties,  is,  that  the  cheefes 
will  fpoil  if  they  do  not  fcrape  and  wafli  them  when  they 
are  found  to  be  mouldy.  But  others  think  that  fufFering 
the  mould  to  remain  mellows  diem,  provided  they  arc 
turned  every  day.  Thofe,  however,  who  will  have  th^ 
mould  off,  fhould  caufc  it  to  be  removed  with  a  clean 
dry  flarmel,  as  the  wafhing  the  cheefes  is  only  a  means  of 
making  die  mould  (which  is  a  fpecies  of  fungus  rooted 
in  the  coat)  grow  again  immediately. 

Some  people  fcald  the  curd ;  but  this  is  a  bad  and 
mercenary  praftice  ^  it  robs  the  cheefc  of  its  fatncfs,  and 
can  only  be  done  with  a  view  to  raifc  a  greater  quantity 
of  whey  butter,  or  to  bring  the  cheefes  forward  for  fkle, 
by  making  them  appear  older  than  they  really  are. 

As  nx)ft  people  like  to  purchafe  high  coloured  cheefes, 
it  may  be  right  to  mix  a  little  annotta  with  the  milk  he-» 
fsxx  it  is  turned.    No  cheefe  will  look  yellow  without 

it. 


ftod  en  E,£  S  E* 

it^  md  though  it  does  not  in  tlie  }eafl:  add  to  the  good- 
neis,  it  is  harmlefs  in  its  cfi^As. 
.  It  is  not  in  the  power  of  any  perfbn  to  make  a  godd 
cheefe  with  bad  rennet  j  therefore  the  following  receipt 
Ihould  be  attended  to.  Let  the  veUy  maWy  rennet  bag^ 
(or  by  whatever  name  it  is  called)  be  perfe<My  fweef  ', 
for  if  it  be  the  leaft  tainted^  the  cheefe  will  never  be 
good.  When  this  is  fit  for  the  purpofe,  three  pints  or 
two  quarts  of  foft  water  (clean  and  fweet)  fhould  be 
mixed  with  fait,  wherein  fhould  be  put  fweet  briar^ 
rofe  leaves,  and  flowers,  cinnamon,  mace,  cloves, 
and  in  ihort,  almoft  every  fort  of  fpice  and  $iromatic 
that  can  be  procured ;  and  if  thefe  are  put  into  two 
quarts  of  water,  they  muft  boil  gently  till  the  liquor 
is  reduced  to  three  pints,  and  care  fliould  be  taken, 
that  this  liquor  is  not  fmoked.  It  fhould  be  fbained 
clear  from  the  fpices,  &c.  and  when  found  to  be  not 
warmer  than  milk  from  the  cow,  ic  fhould  be  poured 
upon  the  veU  or  maw.  A  lemon  may  then  be  fliced  into 
it,  when  it  may  remain  a  day  or  two :  after  which  it 
fliould  be  flrained  again,  and  put  in  a  bottle ;  where,  if 
well  corked,  it  will  keep  good  for  twelve  months,  or 
more.  It  will  fmcU  like  perfume  5  and  a  fmall  quantity 
of  it  will  turn  the  milk,  and  give  die  cheefe  a  pleafing 
flavour.  After  this,  if  the  veil  be  falted,  and  dried  fi»  a 
week  or  two  near  the  fire,  it  will  do  for  the  purpofe  again 
almoft  as  well  as  before. 

.  The  cheefe  made  at  Chedder  (a  large  village  in  So- 
merfetfhire)  is  held  in  high  efteem,  but  its  goodnefs  is 
ikid  to  be  chiefly  owing  to  the  land  whereon  the  cows 
fecd^  4S  the  mctliod  of  making  it  is  the  fame  as  is  pur- 

fucd 


CHEESE.  aot 

fued  throughout  Somerietfhire,  and  die  adjoining  coun- 
tics. 

Cheihire  cheefc  is  much  admired ;  yet  no  people 
take  lefe  pains  with  the  rennet  than  the  Chefhire  farmers. 
But  their  cheefes  are  fo  large  as  often  to  exceed  one 
hundred  pounds  weight  each ;  to  this,  (and  the  age  they 
arc  kept,  the  richnefe  of  the  land,  and  the  keeping  fuch 
-a  number  of  co^is  as  to  make  fuch  a  cheefe  without 
adding  a  kc6nd  meal's  milk)  their  excellence  may  be 
attributed.  Indeed  they  fait  the  curd,  (which  may  make 
a  difierence)  and  keep  the^cheefes  in  a  damp  place  after 
they  are  made,  and  are  very  careful  to  turn  them  daily. 

But  of  all  the  cheefe  this  kingdom  produces,  none  is 
mare  highly  cfteemcd  than  the  Stilton,  which  is  called  the 
Parmefan  of  England,  and,  (except  faulty)  is  never  fold 
£>r  leis  than  is.  or  i s.  2d.  per  pound. 

The  Stilton  cheefes  are  ufually  made  in  Iquare  vat% 
and  weigh  from  fix  to  twelve  pounds  each  cheefe.  Im- 
mediately after  they  are  made,  it  is  necefTary  to  put  them 
into  fquare  boxes  made  exaftly  to  fit  them ;  they  being 
fo  extremely  rich,  that  except '  this  precaution  be  taken, 
they  are  apt  to  bulge  out,  and  break  afunder.  They 
(hould  be  continually  and  daily  turned  in  thefe  boxes, 
and  mufl  be  kept  two  years  before  they  are  properly 
mellowed  for  fale. 

Some  make  them  in  a  net,  fomewhat  like  a  cabbage 
net ;  fb  that  they  appear,  when  made,  not  unlike  an  acorn. 
But  thefe  are  never  fo  good  as  the  other,  having  a 
thicker  coat,  and  wanting  all  that  rich  flavour  and  mel- 
lownels  which  make  them  ib  pleafing. 

It  is  proper  to  mention,  that  the  making  of  thefe 
cheefes  is  not  confined  to  the  Stilton  farmers,  as  many 

Vol.  L  D  d  others 


aol  CHEESE. 

•bthers  in  Huntingdonftiire  (not  forgetting  Rutland  and 
Northamptonfhire)  make  a  finnilar  fort,  fell  them  for 
the  fame  price,  and  give  all  of  them  the  name  of  Stilton 

iheefes. 

Though  thefe  farmers  are  remarked  for  cleanlinefi, 
they  take  very  little  pains  witli  the  rennet,  as  they  in 
general  only  cut  pieces  from  the  veil  or  maw,  which 
they  put  into  the  milk,  and  move  gendy  about  with  the 
hand,  by  which  means  it  breaks,  or  turns  it  fo,  that  they 
eafily  obtain  the  curd.  But  if  the  method  above  defcri- 
bed  for  making  rennet  were  put  in  praftice,  they  would 
.make  their  cheefe  ftill  better ;  at  lead  they  would  not 
have  fo  many  faulty  and  unfound  cheelcs  j  for,  notwith- 
ftanding  their  cheefes  bear  fuch  a  name  and  price,  they 
often  find  them  fo  bad,  as  not  to  be  faleable  5  which  is, 
probably,  owing  to  their  being  fo  carelcfs  about  the 
rennet. 

It  has  been  alledged,  that  as  good  cheefe  mijght  be 
made  in  other  counties,  if  people  would  adhere  to  the 
Stilton  plan,  which  is  this — They  make  a  cheefe  every 
morning,  and  to  this  meal  of  new  milk  they  add  the 
cream  taken  from  that  which  was  milked  the  night  be- 
fore; this,  and  the  age  of  their  cheefes,  have  been  fup-. 
pofed  the  only  reafons  why  they  are  preferred  before 
others  \  for  from  the  niceft  obfervation  it  does  not  ap- 
pear, that  their  land  is  in  any  refpcft  fuperior  to  that  of 
©thcr  counties. 

Excellent  cream  cheefes  are  made  in  Lincolnfhirc, 
by  adding  the  cream  of  one  meal*s  milk  to  milk  which 
comes  immediately  from  the  cowj  thefe  are  prefled 
gently  two  or  three  times,  turned  for  a  few  days,  and  arc 

thea 


CHEESE.  aoj 

Aen  dilpofcd  of  at  the  rate  of  is.  per  pound,  to  be 
eaten  while  new  with  radilhes,  falad,  &c. 

Many  people  give  (kimmed  milk  to  pigs,  but  the 
whey  will  do  equally  as  well  after  cheefes  are  made  from 
diis  milk;  fuch  cheefes  will  always  fell  for  at  leaft  2d. 
per  pound,  which  will  amount  to  a  large  lum  annually, 
where  they  make  much  butter.  The  peafants,  and  many 
of  the  farmers  in  the  North  of  England,  never  eat  any 
better  cheefc,  and  though  they  appear  harder,  experi- 
ence hath  proved  them  to  be  much  eafier  of  digeftion, 
than  any  new  milk  cheefes.  A  good  market  may  al- 
ways be  found  for  the  fale  of  them  at  Briftol. 

Of  the  Rennet  for  making  Cheese.  This  is  made  of 
a  calf's  bag,  which  is  to  be  taken  out  as  foon  as  the  calf 
is  killed,  and  fcoured  infide  and  out  with  fait,  after  it 
has  been  difcharged  of  the  curd  that  is  always  found  in 
it  s  wafh  the  curd  with  water  in  a  cullender,  and  pick 
out  any  hairs  in  it,  walhing  it  till  it  becomes  very  white  $ 
then  putting  the  curd  into  the  bag  again,  adding  to  it 
two  good  handfuls  of  fait ;  then  clofe  up  the  mouth  of 
the  bag  with  a  (kewer,  and  lay  the  bag  in  an  earthen 
pan,  and  it  will  remain  fit  fof  ufe  twelv?  months. 

When  you  are  ro  ufe  this  bag,  fait  a  quart  of  water 
till  it  is  ftrong  enough  to  bear  an  egg,  then  boil  it,  fet  it 
by  till  it  is  quite  cold,  and  pricking  the  bag  into  a  great 
many  linall  holes,  put  it  into  a  pan  for  ufe. 

While  this  rennet  is  frefli,  one  fpoonful  of  the  liquor 
will  turn  or  fet  about  16,  18,  or  20  gallons  of  milk  j 
but  the  longer  it  is  kept,  the  weaker  it  grows,  and  re- 
quires a  greater  quantity :  this  rennet  will  laft  good  about 
a  month.  This  is  the  ufual  method  of  preparing  the 
rennet  i  but  the  method  before  defcribed,  though  a  little 

D  d  2  more 


t04  C  H  E  E  S  E- 

more  troublefome,  is  certainly  much  preferable  for  thfr 
more  valuable  forts  of  cheefe. 

The  calf  s  bag,  which  is  the  part  that  receives  the 
milk,  is  fo  diipofed  as  to  change  milk  into  curd  as  foon 
as  it  is  received  into  it,  and  the  curd  which  is  found  in 
it  partaking  of  that  quality  of  the  bag,  which  difpofes 
it  to  harden  the  milk ;  thefe  are  therefore  preferved  for 
the  fame  ufe  in  turning  common  milk  into  curd ;  and; 
as  the  calfs  bag  is  naturally  warm  when  it  receives  the 
milk  from  the  cow,  which  then  curdles  in  the  bag,  fo 
in  like  manner,  when  you  would  turn  or  fct  milk  for 
cheefe  or  any  other  ufe,  the  milk  opght  to  be  juft  of 
the  fame  warmth  as  the  body  of  the  calf  was,  and  the 
milk  itfelf,  when  the  calf  received  it  from  the  cow. 

In  order  to  procure  a  good  rennet  bt^,  the  calf  fliould 
fuck  it  fiill- about  an  hour  before  it  is  killed,  that  there 
may  be  the  more  and  frefher  curd  in  it ;  thougli  it  is  a 
general  praftice  to  let  calves  faft  fomc  time  before  they 
are  killed. 

Great  attention  muft  alfo  be  had  to  the  pafture  where 
the  cowjs  feed ;  for  thofe  cows  that  feed  on  rank  grals, 
have  of  courfe  more  watery  parts  in  their  milk,  which 
will  not  produce  two  thirds  of  the  cream  of  thofe  cows 
that  are  fed  upon  fine  fhort  grafs. 

Befides  the  goodnefs  of  the  milk  and  rennet,  if  a 
cheefe  is  over  preffed,  it  will  be  hard  and  unpleafant  j  but 
then  again,  the  harder  the  cheefe  is  preffed,  the  longer 
it  will  keep,  and  will  bear  to  be  carried  into  the  hotteft 
climates,  which  the  tender  made  cheefes  will  not  with- 
tout  corrupting. 

If  you  would  give  your  cheefe  any  rich  flavour, 
then  you  may  put  fuch  iwcct  herb&  or  ^ices  as  you  * 

pleafe 


CHEESE.  los 

{^ea(e  into  the  water^  while  you  are  boiling  it  for  the 
dieefe. 

A  plain  Sage  Cheese.  Bruife  the  tops  of  young  red 
fige  in  a  mortar,  till  you  can  prefs  the  juice  out  of 
them  J  bruife  likewife  fome  leaves  of  Ipinage,  and  having 
iqueezed  out  the  juice,  mix  it  with  that  of  the  iage  to 
render  it  of  a  pleafant  green  colour,  which  the  juice  of 
the  fage  alone  will  not  make  it,  and  this  will  alio  allay 
the  bitter  tafte  of  the  fage. 

Having  prepared  the  juice,  put  the  rennet  to  the  milk, 
and  at  the  fame  time  mix  with  it  as  much  of  the  fage, 
&c.  juice  as  will  give  the  milk  the  green  colour  you  de- 
fire,  putting  in  more  or  lels  of  the  fage  juice  to  that  of 
the  fpinage  juice,  according  as  you  would  have  the 
dfeefe  tafte  ftronger  or  weaker  of  the  fage. 

When  the  curd  is  come,  break  it  gently,  and  when  it 
is  all  equally  broken,  put  it  into  the  cheefe  vat  or  mote, 
and  prefs  it  gently,  which  will  make  it  eat  tender  and 
meUow:  when  it  has  ftood  in  the  prefs  about  eight  hours 
it  muft  be  falted. 

A  Sage  Cheese  in  Figures.  To  do  this  you  muft  be 
provided  with  two  cheefe  vats  of  the  fame  iize,  and  the 
milk  muft  be  fet  to  turn  in  two  different  veffels ;  one 
part  with  plain  rennet  only,  and  the  other  with  rennet 
and  Iage  juice.  Thefe  muft  be  made  as  you  would  do 
two  diftinft  cheefes,  and  put  into  the  prefles  at  the  fame 
time.  When  each  of  thefe  cheefes  have  ftood  in  the 
prels  for  half  an  hour,  take  them  out,  and  cut  fome 
fquare  pieces  or  long  flips  out  of  the  plain  cheefe,  and 
lay  them  by  on  a  plate  5  then  cut  the  fame  number  of 
pieces  out  of  the.  fage  cheefe  of  the  fame  figure  and  fize, 
and  immediately  put  the  pieces  of  the  iage  cheefe  into 

the 


4 


f^6  CHEESE. 

Ae  places  that  you  cut  out  of  the  plain  cheefe,  and  the 
pieces  cut  out  of  the  plain  cheefe  into  the  places  cut  out 
of  the  fage  cheefe;  for  this  purpofe  fome  have  a  tin 
plate  made  into  figures  of  feveral  (hapes,  by  which  thcjr 
cut  out  the  pieces  of  the  cheefes  fo  exaftly,  that  they  fit 
widfiout  any  trouble.  •  Having  done  this,  they  put  the 
cheefes  into  the  preffes  again,  and  manage  them  like 
common  cheefes  j  and  fo  there  will  be  one  fage  cheefe 
with  white  or  plain  figures  in  it,  and  another  a  white 
cheefe  with  green  figures  in  it. 

Great  care  lyiuft  be  taken  that  the  curd  be  very  equal- 
ly broke,  and  alfo  that  both  the  cheefes  be  preffed  as 
equally  as  it  is  poffible  before  the  figures  are  cut  out,  or 
odiervvife  when  they  come  to  be  preffed  for  the  laft  time, 
the  figures  will  prefs  unequally,  and  lofe  their  fhapes^ 
Thelc  cheefes  fhould  be  made  not  above  two  inches 
thick  J  for  if  they  are  thicker,  it  will  be  more  difliculfc 
to  make  the  figures  regular. 

Thefe  cheefes  muft  after  they  are  made  be  frequendy 
turned  and  fhifted  on  the  fhelf,  and  often  rubbed  with  a 
coarfe  cloth.  They  will  be  fit  to  be  eaten  in  about  eight 
months. 

Slipcoat  Cheese,  or  Cream  Cheese*  Take  twelve 
quarts  of  new  milk  and  vl  quart  of  cream,  put  it  together 
with  two  Ipoonfuls  of  rennet  (or  lefs  according  to  its 
ftrength)  juft  warm,  and  it  having  ftood  till  the  curd  i& 
come,  lay  a  cloth  in  the  cheefe  vat,  cut  out  the  curd 
with  a  (kimming  difh,  and  put  it  into  the  vat  till  it  is 
full,  turning  the  cheefe  cloth  over  it ;  and  as  the  curd 
fettles,  lay  more  on  till  you  have  laid  on  as  much  as  will 
make  one  cheefe.  When  the  whey  is  drained  out,  turn 
the  cheefe  into  a  dry  cloth,  and  then  lay  a  weight  of  a 

pound 


CHEESE.  ^f 

pound  upon  it;  at  night  turn  it  out  into  another  cloth, 
and  the  next  morning  fait  it  a  little  j  then  having  made  a 

ft 

bed  of  nettles  or  afh  leaves  to  lay  it  on,  cover  it  with 
the  lame,  fhifting  them  twice  a-day,  till  the  cheefe  is  fit 
to  eat,  which  will  be  in  about  ten  days. 

To  imitate  Cheshire  Cheese.  The  milk  being  fetp 
and  the  curd  come,  do  not  break  it  with  a  difh  as  is 
cuftomary  in  making  oth^r  cheefes,  but  draw  it  toge- 
ther with  your  hands  to  one  fide  of  the  veflel,  breaking 
it  gently  and  regularly  j  for  if  it  be  prefled  roughly  a 
great  deal  of  the  richnels  of  the  milk  will  go  into  the 
whey.  Put  the  curd  into  the  cheefe  vat  or  mote  as  you 
thus  gather  it,  and  when  it  is  full,  prefs  it  and  turn  ic 
often,  falting  it  at  feveral  times. 

Thcfe  cheefes  are  to  be  made  feven  or  eight  inches 
thick,  and  will  be  fit  to  be  eati  in  a  year.  .  You  muft 
turn  them  and  fhift  them  frequently  upon  a  fhelf,  and 
rub  them  with  a  dry  coarfe  cloth,  and  at  the  year's  end 
you  may  bore  a  hole  in  the  middle  and  pour  in  a  quar- 
ter of  a  pint  of  fack,  then  flop  the  hole  clofe  with  fbmc 
of  the  fame  cheefe,  and  fet  it  in  a  wine  cellar  for  fix 
months  to  mdlow,  and  you  will  find  the  fack  will  be  all 
lofl  and  the  hole  will  be  in  a  manner  clofed  up. 

To  imitate  Glocester  Cheese.  Set  the  milk  as  is 
before  direfted  for  other  cheefes  j  and  break  the  curd  as 
eqiially  and  tenderly  as  you  can,  put  it  in  a  cloth  into 
the.vat,  and  fet  it  in  the  prefs  for  an  hour ;  then  take  it 
out  of  the  vat  and  cut  it  into  fmall  pieces,  about  the  big- 
ncfs  of  a  nutmeg,  into  a  pan  of  fcalding  water,  and  fprin- 
klc  them  widi  fait,  to  what  quantity  you  think  fit. 

Then  fet  them  again  into  the  cheefe  vat,  where  let 
thcm.ltand  till  the  next  morning,  and. when  they  arc 

%  taken 


so8  CHEESE. 

9 

taken  out  fct  them  by,  not  forgetting  to  tiim.them  and 
wipe  them  very  often,  till  they  are  grown  very  dry ;  or 
elfe  when  you  have  preflfed  one  of  thefe  chcefes  two 
l^ours,  fait  it  on  the  upper  fide  and  turn  it  at  night,  and 
fait  the  fide  that  lies  uppermoft  to  lie  in  the  preis  till  the 
rext  mommg ;  but  the  firft  way  is  accounted  the  bcft  5 
the  chcefes  done  the  firft  way,  i.  e.  by  cutting  the  checfe, 
will  be  fmooth  coated;  they  will  be  fit  for  eating  in  ei^ic 
months  time. 

Marycold  Cheese.  Pick  the  frelheft  and  beft  co- 
loured leaves,  pound  them  in  a  mortar,  and  ftrain  out 
the  juice ;  pur  thL?  into  your  milk  at  the  fanfie  time  that 
you  put  in  your  rennet,  ftir  them  together.  The  milk 
being  fet  and  the  curd  come,  break  it  as  gently  and  as 
equally  as  you  poflible  ^  can,  put  it  into  the  cheefe  vat> 
and  prefs  it  with  a  gentle  weight,  tkcre  being  fuch  a 
number  of  holes  in  the  bottom  part  of  the  vat,  as  will  let 
the  whey  eafily  out,  or  elfe  let  there  be  a  fpout  to  cany 
off  the  whey  3  though  the  holes  will  be  the  bcft.  The 
cheefe  which  is  made  in  a  cloth,  muft  be  ufed  like  other 
cheefes  made  after  that  manner. 

Buckingham  Cheese.  Procure  a  cheefe  vat  of  a 
fquare  figure  fix  inches  over  and  nine  inches  deep,  full 
of  fmall  holes  for  the  conveniency  of  letting  out  the  whey 
when  the  curd  is  put  into  it ;  then  mix  the  night's  cream 
with  the  morning's  milk,  and  put  the  rennet  to  it  to  cool. 

When  the  curd  is  come,  take  it  gently  out  of  the  whey 
and  with  it  fill  the  cheefe  vat,  and  as  that  finks  fill  up 
the  cheefe  vat  with  curds,  doing  this  once  every  hour  till 
night.  The  next  morning  turn  the  cheefe  up  fide  down, 
turning  it  every  night  and  morning  till  it  Ihrinks  fi-om 
thtf  cheefe  yat,  and  is  grown  ftiff  enough  to  be  taken  out 

without 


c  rt  E  £:  s  £.  469 

without  breaking,  and  then  lay  it  upoii  a  ftielf  to  be  tuf- 
6ed  and  ihiit  it  night  and  morning,  till  it  is  dry  and  fit 
for  ule. 

Cream  Cheese.  Strain  the  milk  into  a  chcefe  tub 
often  in  the  fields,  and  to  fifteen  gallons  of  milk,  put 
two  fpoonfuls  of  rennet,  and  it  will  come  in  about  half  aft 
hour.  It  mufl  not  be  fet,  when  juft  hot  from  the  cows, 
(for  then  it  will  be  apt  to  be  tough)  but  lukewarm. 

When  it  is  come,  break  it  gently  with  a  fleeting  difti, 
ftirring  it  well  from  the  bottom ;  for  if  it  be  mafhed  all 
together  every  way,  it  will  be  leaft,  that  is,  the  butter 
will  run  more  in  the  whey.  This  being  done,  let  it 
ftand  to  fettle,  about  half  an  hour,  and  then  loofen  a 
plug,'  that  ftops  a  hole  in  the  middle  of  the  tub,  to  let 
out  the  whey  into  clean  vefTels.  Then  put  the  curd 
into  a  canvafs  cloth,  and  let  two.  perfons  roll  it  up  and 
down  gently^  till  the  whey  is  well  drained  from  it.  Then 
tie  up  the  cloth,  and  hang  it  up  to  drip,  and  when  it 
has  done  dripping,  put  it  into  a  cheefe  vat  that  is  big 

■ 

enough,  lay  a  board  over  itj  and  upon  the  board  fet  a 
fourteen  pound  weight,  and  fo  let  it  ftand  all  night. 

In  the  morning  the  cheefe  will  turn  out  feven  orvcight 
inches  thick ;  then  cut  it  into  cheefes  of  half  an  inch 
thick  with  a  long  filken  Ihread ;  lay  them  on  iinooth 
boards,  and  fait  them  lightly,  turning  them  twice  a-day 
for  the.  firft  four  days,  then  lay  them  oh  nettles  near  th« 
ground,  and  tu/n  them  twice  a-day  for  eight  days,  and 
the  next  day  lay  them  on  boards  to  dry. .  They  are 
finiflied  in  eight  days  in  hot  weather,  in  cooler  in  four. 

Stilton  Cheese.  Take  two  gallons  of  morning  milk 
and  five  gallons  of  fweet  cream,  l^eat  them  well  together, 
and  add  as  much  boiling  fpring  or  river  water  as  will 

Vot.  I.  £  €  make 


axo  C  H  E  E  S  E. 

make  the  whole  a  little  warmer  than  milk  from  the  cowi 
then  put  in  the  rennet  made  ftrong  of  mace,  by  boiling  a 
good  quantity  of  mace  in  the  rennet  liquor. 

To  make  Morning-milk  Cheese.  Tal^e  the  milk  av 
it  comes  from  the  cow  in  the  morning  and  fyle  it  into  a 
clean  tub ;  then  take  all  the  cream  off  from  the  milk  that 
was  milked  in  the  evening,  and  ftcain  it  into  the  new  milk  5 
and  having  made  a  good  quantity  c£  fair  water  fcalding 
hot,  pour  it  alfb  into  the  milk,  to  fcald  the  cream  and 
milk  together,  and  let  it  ftand,  cooling  it  with  a  difh,  till 
it  be  no  more  than  lukewarm ;  then  go  to  die  pot  where 
the  rennet  bag  hangs,  and  take  fb  much  of  the  rennet 
from  thence,  without  ftirring  the  bag,  as  will  fervc  for 
tlie  proportion  of  the  milk,  and  (train  the  fame  care- 
folly  into  it  J  for  if  the  ^eaft  mote  of  the  curd  of  the  earn-- 
ing  fall  into  the  cheefe,  it  will  make  it  rot  and  mould. 

When  the  rennet  is  put  in,  coyer  the  milk  and  let  it 
iland  for  half  an  hour  or  thereabouts,  and  in  that  time 
it  will. come,  if  die  rennet  be  good  ^  but  if  it  was  not>' 
you  muft  put  in  more ;  and  when  it  is  come,  break  and 
mafh  the  curd  together  with  a  difh  in  your  hand^  paf-» 
fing  and  turning  it  divers  ways ;  and  when  you  have 
broke  it  well  very  gendy  with  your  hand,  prels  the  curd 
down  into  the  bottom  of  the  tub,  then  with  a  thin  difl\ 
take  the  whey  from  it  as  clear  as  you  can ;  and  the  dieefe; 
rat  being  ready  according  to  the  proportion  of  the  curds^ 
put  the  curd  upon  it  with  both  your  hands  j<Mned  toge- 
ther, and  break  it,  preffing  it  hard  down  into  the  vat,  till 
it  is  full.  Then  lay  the  hard  cheefe  board  upon  the  top 
'  of  the  curd,  and  a  fmall  weight  upon  that,  that  ifiye  whey 
may  diop  from  it  into  the  under  veffel,  and  when  it  has. 
done  dropping,  take  a  large  cheefe  oloth^  and  having 

a  VC5ted; 


•  • 


CHEESE.  .         dii 


%cttcd  It  in  cold  water,  lay  it  on  the  cheefe  board,  and 
then  turn  the  cheefe  upon  it  j  then  lay  this  cloth  into  tlic 
cheefe  vat,  and  put  the  cheefe  into  it  again,  and  with  a 
thin  (iicc  thruft  the  fanne  down  on  every  fide;  then  lay 
the  cloth  over  the  top,  lay  on  the  cheefe  board,  carry  it 
to  the  prefs,  and  prefs  it  under  a  fufficient  weight  for 
half  an  hour,  dien  take  it  out  and  turn  it  into  a  dry 
doth,  or  put  it  into  the  prefs  ag^in,  and  let  it  remain 
there  till  the  next  day  in  the  evening,  and  when  you  turn 
it  the  laft  time,  turn  it  into  the  diy  vat  without  any 
cloth  at  all. 

When  it  has  been  prefied  enough,  and  is  taken  out 
of  the  vat,  iJien  lay  it  in  a  rimnel,  rubbing  it  firft  on  the 
one  fide,  and  then  on  the  other  with  felt,  and  fo  let  it 
ftand  all  night ;  the  next  morning  do  the  fame  agiiri, 
and  fo  turn  it  out  upon  die  brine  which  comes  from  the 
felt  two  or  three  days  more,  according  ais  the  cheefe  is  in 
largeneis.  After  this  lay  it  upon  a  clean  tlat  table  or 
Ihclf  to  dry,  not  omitting  to  rub  it  all  over  every  day 
with  a  clean  clotK,  and  turning  it  till  foch  time  as  it  is 
thoroughly  dry  and  fit  to  go  into  the  cheefe  treck.  At 
firft  it  muft  be  laid  in  a  place  where  it  will  dry  haftily, 
but  afterwards  where  it  may  dry  mart  at  leifure. 

To  make  a  cheefe  of  two  meals  of  the  morning's  new 
fnilk  and  the  evening's  cream  milk,  you  muft  do  alfo 
the  feme,  and  fo  you  muft  if  you  make  a  fimple  morn- 
ing milk  cheefe,  which  is  all  of  new  milk  and  nothing 
elfc,  except  only  that  you  muft  put  in  the  rennet  as 
ibon  as  the  milk  is  fyled,  if  it  has  any  warmth  in  it,  and 
tibt  fcdd  it ;  but  if  the  warmdi  be  gone,  it  muft  be  put 
into  a  kcttk  and  receive  the  warmth  of  the  fire, 

E  e  2  To 


lift  CHEESECAKES. 

To  fuch  of  our  readers  as  wifti  for  more  inftrudioa 
on  this  fubjcft,  we  recommend  a  work  lately  publilhed, 
entitled.  The  Rural  Economy  of  Ghucejierjhire ;  in  which 
the  manufadture  of  cheefe  is  entered  into  with  a  minute- 
nefs  that  muft  render  it  particularly  ufeful  to  thofe  who 
occupy  large  dairies.  We  muft  obferve,  however,  after 
all  the  information  we  have  been  able  to  coUeft,  that  the 
knowledge  even  of  praftitioners  is  in  a  manner  wholly 
confined  to  their  own  individual  praftice,  or  perhaps  to 
that  of  fome  fi^w  confidential  neighbours.  The  manu* 
hOtMvt  of  cheefe  is,  indeed,  a  craft  or  myftery,  concealed 
from  the  public  eye  i  the  dairy-room  is  generally  conr- 
fecrated  to  the  women  j  and  the  fecrcts  of  it  are  feldom 
familiar  even  to  the  mafter  of  the  dairy  in  which  they 
are  praftifedt 


^»mimmmm  t  iiH 


CHEESECAKES. 

Ckeam  Cukd  for  Cheesecakes.  Boil  a  pint  of  creant 
with  a  little  cinnamon,  mace,  and  rofe  water ;  when  it 
is  as  cold  as  new  milk,  put  in  about  half  a  fpoonful  of 
good  rennet,  and  when  it  curds,  fervc  it  up  in  a  cream 
difh. 

To  make  Cheesecakes.  Boil  eight  eggs,  well  beaten, 
with  a  quart  of  milk  or  cream,  ftir  it  till  it  is  a  curd, 
then  ftrain  it,  and  mix  it  with  the  curd  of  three  quarts 
of  milk,  two  grated  bifcuits,  three  quarters  of  a  pound 
of  butter,  two  ounces  of  pounded  and  blanched  al» 
jnpnds,  with  fome  fack  and  rofe  water,  feven  eggs,  half 
a  pound  of  currants,  add  fpice  and  fait,  beat  it  up  with 
more  cream  till  it  is  very  light,  and  fill  the  cheefecakes. 

The 


CHEESECAKES.  213 

The  fame  way  you  may  malce  cheefecakes  with  the  curd 
of  a  gallon  of  milk,  without  the  egg  curd. 

Rice  Cheesecakes.  After  boiling  two  quarts  of 
milk  or  cream  a  fhoirt  time  with  forne  whole  mace  or 
cinnamon,  take  it  off  the  fire ;  take  out  the  fpicc,  and 
put  in  half  a  pound  of  rice  flour,  then  (et  it  on  the  fire 
again,  and  make  it  boil,  ftirring  it  together ;  beat  and 
add  to  it  the  yolks  of  twenty-four  eggs,  then  fet  it  on 
the  fire  again,  and  keep  it  continually  ftirring  till  it  is 
as  thick  as  curds,  add  half  a  pound  of  almonds,  blanched 
.  and  pounded,  then  fweeten  it  to  your  palate  :  or,  if  you 
chufe  it,  you  may  put  in  half  a  pound  of  currants. 

Another  'wc^.  Boil  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  rice  till  it 
is  tender,  drain  it,  put  in  four  eggs  well  beaten,  half  a 
pound  of  butter,  a  pint  of  cream,  fix  ounces  of  iugar,  a 
nutmeg  grated,  and  a  glafs  of  ratafia  water  or  brandy. 
Beat  them  all  together,  and  bake  them  in  raifed  crufl:s. 

Lemon  Cheesecakes.  Boil  two  large  lemon  peels, 
pound  them  well  together  in  ^  mortar,  with  a  quarter  of 
a  pound  or  more  of  loaf-fugar,  the  yolks  of  fix  eggs,  arid 
half  a  pound  of  frefti  butter ;  pound  and  mix  them  to- 
gether, and  fill  the  patty  pans  about  half  fiiU. 

Orange  Cheesecakes  are  made  the  lame  way,  only 
the  pfcel  mud  be  boiled  in  two  or  three  waters;  to  take 
out  the  bittcmefs. 

Citron  Cheesecakes.  Boil  a  quart  of  cream; 
when  cold,  mix  it  well  with  the  yolks  of  four  eggs  well 
beaten  j  then  fct  it  on  the  fire,  and  let  it  boU  till  it  curds ; 
blanch  Ibme  almonds,  beat  them  with  orange-flower 
water,  put  them  into  the  crcani,  with  a  few  Naples  bif- 
cuits  and  green  citrons  Ihrcd  fine  \  fweeten  them  to  your 
taftcj  and  bake  them  in  tea* cups. 

Ftm 


•/ 


114  CHEESECAKES. 

Fsns  Cheesecakes.  Take  a' pint  of  cream,  vam 
it,  and  put  to  it  five  quarts  of  milk  warm  from  the  cow  5 
then  put  rennet  to  it,  and  give  it  a  flir  about.  When  it 
is  come,  put  the  curd  in  a  linen  bag  or  cloth,  let  it  drain 
well  away  from  the  whey,  but  do  not  fqueeze  it  much  5 
then  put  it  in  a  mortar,  and  break  the  curd  as  fine  as 
butter ;  put  to  your  curd  half  a  pound  of  fweet  almonds 
blanched,  and  beat  exceedingly  fine,  and  half  a  pound  of 
mackaroons  beat  very  fine.  If  you  have  no  macka- 
roons,  get  Naples  bifcuits ;  then  add  to  it  the  yolks  of 
nine  eggs  beaten,  a  whole  nutmeg  grated,  two  perfumed 
plums  diflblved  in  rofe  or  orange  flower  water,  and  half 
a  pound  of  fine  fugar ;  mix  all  well  together,  then  melt 
a  pound  and  a  quarter  of  butter,  and  ftir  it  well  in  it ; 
then  make  your  pufF  pafte  thus  :  Take  a  pound  of  fine 
flour,  wet  it  with  cold  water,  roll  it  out,  put  into  it  by 
degrees  a  pound  of  frieifh  butter,  and  fnake  a  little  flour 
over  each  coat  as  you  roll  itf. 

You  need  not  put  in  the  perfumed  plums,  if  you  dif- 
Hke  them  j  and,  for  variety,  when  you  make  them  of 
mackaroons,  put  in  as  much  tinfture  of  faflron  as  will 
give  them  a  high  colour,  but  no  currants.  This  we  call 
a  SaSron  Cheefecake. 

Almond  Cheesecakes,  Take  four  ounces  of  Jordan 
almonds,  blanch  them,  and  put  them  into  cold  water, 
beat  them  with  rofe  water  in  a  marble  mortar,  or  wood- 
en bowl,  with  a  wooden  peftle  j  put  to.it  four  ounces  of 
fugar,  and  the  yolks  of  four  eggs  beat  fine ;  work  it  in 
the  mortar  or  bowl  till  it  becomes  white  and  frothy ; 
then  make  a  rich  puflF  pafte  as  follows  : — take  half  a 
pound  of  flour,  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  butter,  rub  2 
liicle  of  the  butter  into  the  flour,  mix  it  ftifi^with  a  litde 
'  cold 


CHEESECAKES.  aij 

ccdd  water,  then  roll  your  paftc  ftraight  out,  ftrew  over 
a  little  flour,  and  lay  over  it  in  thin  bits  one  third  of 
your  butter ;  throw  a  little  more  flour  over  the  butter  i 
do  fo  for  three  times,  then  put  your  pafte  in  your  tins, 
fill  them,  grate  fugar  over  them,  and  bake  them  in  a 
gentle  oven. 

Jjiother  way.  •  Take  four  ounces  of  almonds,  blanch 
diem,  and  beat  them  with  a  little  orange-flower  water  5 
add  the  yolks  of  eight  eggs,  the  rind  of  a  large  lemon 
grated,  half  a  pound  of  melted  butter,  and  fugar  to 
your  tafte ;  lay  a  thin  puff  pafte  at  the  bottom  of  the 
tins,  and  litde  flips  acrois,  if  agreeable.  Add  about  half 
a  dozen  bitter  almonds. 

Common  Cheisecakes.  Put  a  quart  of  milk  on  the 
fire  J  beat  eight  eggs  well ;  whei>  the  milk  boils,  ftir 
them  upon  the  fire  till  it  comes  to  a  curd,  then  pour  it 
out ;  when  it  is  cold,  put  in  a  litde  fait,  two  ipoonfuh 
of  rofe  water,  and  three  quarters  of  a  pound  of  cunantsj 
put  it  into  puff-pafte,  and  bake  it.    • 

Bread  Cheesecakes.  Having  fliced  a  penny^loaf 
as  thin  as  pofllble,  pour  on  it  a  pint  of  boiling  cream^ 
and  let  it  ftand  two  hours  \  then  take  eight  eggs,  half  a 
pound  of  butter,  and  a  nutmeg  grated  i  beat  them  well 
together,  and  put  in  half  a  pound  of  currants  well  waflied 
and  dried  before  the  fire,  and  a  fpoonfol  of  white  wine 
or  brandy.  Then  bake  them  in  patty  pans,  or  raifed 
cruft. 

Court  Cheesecakes.  Boil  a  bit  of  butter  in  a  lit- 
tle water,  with  a  litde  fait ;  thicken  it  with  as  much  flour 
as  it  will  take,  ftirring  it  on  the  fire  conflandy  until  it 
become  quite  a'  paftc ;  then  mix  eggs  with  it  one  by 
one,  ta  VMkz  it  almoft  as  liquid  as  a  thick  batter,  and 

mix 


2i6  CHEESECAKES. 

mix  fbmc  good  cream-cheefe  with  it ;  bake  it  in  good 
pufF-pafte,  coloured  with'  yolks  of  eggs,  and  ferve  ic 
cither  hot  or  cold. 

Cheesecakes  the  French  way,  called  Ramequins. 
Take  good  Parmefan  or  Chefliire  cheefe,  melt  it  in  a 
ftewpan  with  a  bit  of  butter,  and  one  or  two  fpoonfulg 
of  water ;  then  add  as  nmuch  flour  as  will  make  it  pretty 
thick,  and  quit  the  fides  of  the  jpan  ;  put  it  into  another 
pan,  and  add  eggs  to  it,  one  by  one,  mixing  well  widi 
a  wooden  fpoon  till  it  becomes  pretty  light  and  clear  j 
add  one  of  two  pounded  anchovies,  and  a  little  pepper ; 
bake  the  cakes  fingly  upon  a  baking-plate,  or  in  paper 
cafes,  of  what  Ihape  you  pleafe ;  they  require  but  a 
ihort  time,  and  a  foft  oven,  and  muft  be  ferved  quite 
hot,  ^  ' 

A  Cheesecake  without  Curd.     Take  two  quarts  of 
cream,  and  fourteen  eggs,  bdth  yolks  and  whites,  beat 
half  a  dozen  of  the  eggs,  and  mix  with  them  as  much 
rice  flour  as  will  make  them  as  thick  as  a  pafte  :  then 
put  in  the  other  eight  eggs,  liaving  bcMten  them  a  little,  . 
and  ftir  all  well  together  j  fct  the  cream  on  the  fire,  put 
in  the  eggs  and  rice,  ftirrlng  it  all  the  while  it  is  boil- 
ing, till  it  comes  to  be  a  pretty  thick  curd :  let  it  (land  ^ 
till  it  is  cold,  and  into  one  part  put  in  fugar  and  cur- 
rants, and  to  the  odier  part,  put  two  or  three  fpoonfuls , 
of  orange-flower  water,   ambergris,   and  fugar.     Put 
this  meat  into  a  very  good  cruft.     It  will  be  baked  in  a 
very  little  time. 

A  good  Cheesecake  zi'ith  Curd.  To  diree  pounds  of 
cheefe  curd  add  a  pound  and  a  quarter  of  butter  i  pound 
both  in  a  mortar  till  all  looks  like  butter  y  then  add 

half 


C  H  E  R  R  I  E  S,  4tf 

ihalf  a  pound  of  almonds  blanched  and  pounded  with 
orange -flower  water,  two  pounds  of  butter,  the  yolks  of 
lixteen  eggs,  the  whites  of  eight,  a  little  beaten  mace> 
and  a  little  cream  i  beat  all  together  ^  put  it  in  pu& 
pafte,  and  they  will  be  baked  in  a  quick  oven  in  a  quar« 
ter  of  an  hour. 

A  Cheesecurd  PupDiNG.  Take  the  curd  of  three 
<iuarts  of  new  milk  well  drained  from  the  whey ;  pound 
it  very  well  in  a  mortar  with  fix  ounces  of  butter ;  then 
having  beaten  the  yolks  of  five  eggs,  and  the  whites  of 
two,  ftrain  them  to  the  curd ;  grate  a  couple  of  Naples 
bifcuits,  and  add  half  a  pint  of  flour ;  having  mixed  all 
together,  fweeten  it  to  your  taftc. 

Butter  patty-pans>  fill  them  and  let  them'  in  a  gentle 
oven  i  when  you  turn  them  btit,  put  over  them  fomo 
lack,  butter  and  fugar  melted  very  thick ;  fl:ick  flips 
of  candied  orange  or  citron  peel  in  them  i  and  if  you 
would  have  fome  withput  Iwfetmeats,  flice  blanched 
almonds  for  ^^m, 


ff^'mmm 


CHERRIES, 

There  arc  three  forts  of  this  fruit,  namely,  the  black, 
die  red,  and  the  morelle  cherries,  which  are  very  ufeful 
and  agreeable  coolers  and  quenchers  of  thirft,  and  are 
Ycrj  fafely  and  bencfici^illy  vfcd  in  hot,  bi\ious^  or 
^verifli  difiempers^ 

To  preferve  Cherries*  Take  two  pounds  of  cherricS;^ 
ene  pound  and  a  half  of  fugar,  half  a  pint  of  &ir  water, 
melt  your  fugar  in  it ;  when  it  is  melted  put  in  your* 
ortier  fugar  aud  cherries  j  then  boil  them  foftjy  till  the 

Vol.  I.      .  f  f  fugar 


tf  9  t^  H  E  R  R  t  £  9^ 

(bgar  be  melted^  after  which  boil  them  fsA  afkl  MtA 
diem  i  take  them  off  two  or  three  times  and  fliako 
them3  put  them  on  again^  and  let  them  \)ci\  faft^  and 
when  they  arc  of  a  good  colour  they  are  enough. 

To  dry  Cherribs.  To  four  pounds  of  cherries  put 
one  pound  of  lugar,  and  juft  as  much  water  to  the  fiigar 
as  will  w^  it ;  when  it  is  melted^  msdke  it  boil^  {kone 
your  cherries,  put  them  in^^  and  make  them  boil ;  fkim 
them  two  or  three  times,  take  them  off,  and  let  them 
ftand  in  the  fyrup  two  or  three  days ;  boil  your  fyrupj^ 
and  put  it  to  them  again,  but  do  not  boil  yoxxr  ^herrics 
again.  Let  them  ftand  three  or  four  days,  then  take 
them  out:j  and  lay  them  in  ficYes  to  dry ;  when  dry^^  lay 
them  in  rows  on  papers,  and  fo  a  row  of  <^herries  and  a 
row  of  white  paper  in  boxes. 

To  prefirve  Cherries  with  the  Leaves  and  Stalks  green^ 
Dip  the  ftalks  and  leaves  in  the  beft  vinegar  whe^  it  it 
boiling  hot ;  place  the  fprigs  upright  in  a  (ieye  tiD  they 
are  dry.  In  the  mean  time  boil  ibm?  doxible-refioed 
fugar  to  a  fyrup,  and  dip  the  cherries,  ftalks  and  leavesji 
therein,  juft  to  let  them  fcald ;  lay  them  on  ^  fievc ; 
then  boil  the  fugar  to.  a  candy  height,  dip  in  the  cher- 
ries, ftalks,  leaves  and  all ;  then  flit  the  branches  and 
leaves,  and  dry  them  as  you  do  other  fweetmeats. 

They  have  a  very  pretty  cffedt  l?y  candle-light  in  af 
defert. 

To  preferve  Morblle  Cherries.  Take  them  ^heq 
they  are  quite  ripe,  cut  off  the  ftalks,  take  oyt  the 
ftones,  weigh  the  cherries,  and  to  every  pound  of  cher- 
ries allow  one  pound  pf  loaf-fugar  pounded  ^  put.  the 
cherries  in  a  preferving  pan,  and  ftrew  the  fugar  over 
diemi  add  one  pint  of  the  juice;  of  red  currants,  jmd  let 

.  \  them 


t  HERRI  fig.  iiti^ 

^b^  ftaixi  all  nfgiit;  fet  them  over  a  flow  fire  to  ht» 
£u^  for  A  few  minutes^  then  kt  thmi  away  for  another 
mghi  i  gbre  them  another  boil ;  take  the  cherries  care- 
futtjr  out^  put  them  in  the  pdts^  b(^  die  lynip  till  it  ia 
-tiiickf  and  pour  it  oh  them. 

fb  frefttvt  Chs&ribs  in  Brandy.  Take  two  pounds 
of  Itf  ge  morcile  cherries,  ripe  and  free  from  bruiies  9 
cue  die  ftaScs  half  off,  flit  the  cherries  down  die  feam, 
ftin  deep,  with  a  penknife ;  dien  boil  a  pound  and  e 
liatf  of  loaf^fbgar  tp  a  candy  height ;  when  it  is  eold^ 
mix  it  with  a  pint  of  brandy,  put  it  in  a  jar,  and  pUt  in 
die  cherries/  If  this  fyrup  does  not  covfer  them,*  fill  the 
jar  Qp  with  brandy,  placing  a  fmall  weight  on  them  to 
kcsepthem  tinder  the  fyrup  $  tie  them  down  with  blad^ 
dcr'  and  leather,  and  keep  them  in  a  dry  cool  place* 
As  die  'fyrup  waftes,  fill  them  up  with  brandy. 

?a  make  a  ComfR)U  of  Chukkiies.  Take  large  niorelle 
cherri^  wbea  they  are  quite  ripe  ^  weigh  diem,  and  to 
every  pound. of  dierries  put  three  quarters  of  a  pound 
of  lugar,  and  clarify  it.  Cut  off  half  of  the  ftalks  of  the 
cherries,  leaving  the  other  half  on  $  nick  them  in  th6 
feam  widi  a  penknife,  put  fhem  in  the  fyrup,  and  let 
them  fimmer  for  fi^  pninutcs ;  keep  them  off  one  hour  ; 
fet  them  on  again  for  three  minutes,  and  cio  fo  three 
Wtfes  I  dike  them  carefully  6ut  with  a  fpoon,  and  lay 
dibm  in  a  difli ;  boit  the  fyrup  till  it  is  thick,  pour  i$ 
oirer  diifc  cherHes,  aAd  ferve  them  up  as  before^ 

IIlack  Cherry  Water.  Let  any  quantity  of  black 
cherries  be  bruifed,  (b  that  the  ftones  may  be  broken^ 
and  then  diflilled  with  only  a  fmall  proportion  of  water. 

This  is  a  very  grateful  water,  has  long  been  employ- 
€d  by  Phylicians  in  preference  to  other  diftiUed  waters  i 

Ff  a  and 


ARID  CHERVIL* 

mud  among  Nurfes  has  been  the  Hrll:  remedy  againft 
coavulfive  diferders;  to  which  children  are  fubjeA ;  it 
has  of  late  however  been  held  in  leis  efteem,  as  of  a  na<- 
ture  too  fimilar  to  laurel  *leaf  water,  which  is  known  to 
be  of  a  poifonous  tendency.  And  it  feems  probable  that 
this  watcr>  in  any  degree  of  ftrength  and  quantity,  may 
not  be  altogether  fafe  to  the  tender  age  of  infants^  where 
the  principles  of  life  are  but  juft  beginning  to  move^ 
elpecially  as  it  Jias  too  often  been  counterfeited  with  a 
wato-  diftilled  from  bitter  almonds,  which  are  known  t6 
communicate  a  poifonous  quality. 

Chbrrt  Brandy  is  ufually  made  with  black  cherries, 
by  filling  a  bbtde  half  full  with  them,  and  adding  brandy 
thereto,  till  the  botde  be  nearly  full ;  let  it  be  ihnken 
ibmetimes,  and  withia  a  month  it  wUl.  be  ceady  to  drink* 

Cherry  Wink,  Pick  and  ftoiie  a  quantity  of  the 
bdl  cherries,  to  evety  gallon  of  juice  add  .two  ^ound^  of 
Aigar ;  let  it  work  in  a  tub,  and  wbea  done,"  ftop  it  foF 
two  months  i  then  draw  and  bpttle  it  teitha  little  fugar^ 
and  in  fix  week*  it  wiU  be  fit  fbr  ufe^u  < ' .  .  :  > 

'  < 

'    i  '  «^         •  ^  .   .    "     ' 

C  H  E  R  V  il. 


J. 


This  is  a  plant  Ibmewhat  jefembling,  parfley>.  and 
pretty  well  known  in  die  kitchen  Mt  is  grateful  tO:th« 
palate  ancj  flomachj  gently  openings  and  diuretit;  -A 
very  eminent  Phylician  recommends  it  as  of  greaCi  be- 
nefit in  dropfies  \  he  fays,  that  in  this  diibrder  it  pro« 
iXiotes  the  difcharge  of  urine  when  fupprefled  $  renders  it 
clear  when  turbid  i  that  it  ads  without  irritation  i  and 
be  s^oes  ib  fiu*  as  to  %» that  dropfies  which  do  not  yielii 


to 


CH  re  KENS.  Oft 

fp  this  medkine,  are  fcarce  capable  of  bcmg  cu« 
jfid.  •  Three  or  four  ounces  of  the  juice,  tx)  be  givea 
every  four  hours,  and  continued  for  fome  time.  Thdugh 
ihould  the  patient  be  troubled  with  a  cough  or  fpitting;^ 
1^  Uood^  it  muft  be  ufqd  more  cautioufly. 


C  HI  C  K  E  N  S. 

They  are  in  general  better  for  being  killed  the  night 
before  you  ufe  (hem ;  but  if  in  hai^e  you  may  put  them 
into  Icalding  water>  ^q4  ^ioon  as  the  feathers  will  flip 
'  eff,  take  them  put,  yor  the  fidn  will  become  hard. . 
:  To  boil  CHitKjNs. .  After  they  are  plucked, .  drawn 
^ukI  trufTed,  fingc:  wd  dull  them  with  flour,  cover  therfi 
clofe  in  cokL  w^(^^i  ^d  fet  diem  over  a  flow  fire.  Ha-* 
ving  boile4.  a  proper  time,  according  to  their  fize,  drain 
them  from  the  .wa|£r,  diih  then^^ jap, .  and  pour  fauce 
©vcr  them*  >  .      .  .    , 

Sopie  recommend  to  lay  them  two  hours  in  fkiq^med 
milk,  previous  to  boiling ;  others,-  t;Q  bo^  thegi  in  milk 
and  water  with  a  little  fait.  But  in  all  cafes  they  fhould 
be  boiled  in  a  pot  by  themfelves  in  a  gqod  de;^l  of  water^ 
die  pot  fhould  be  well  fkimmedi  they  are  aifo  ufuaily 
boiled  in  a  ck>di. 

-^iXo  roaft  Chickeks.  Pluck  your  chicken  vefy  care- 
fully, draw  'and  trufs  it>  lay  it  down  to  a  good  fite,  finge 
it  dean  with  white  paper,  bafle  it  with  butter,  and  duft 
on  ibme  flour.  The  dn\e  depends  much  on  the  good- 
oels  of  your  fire :  twenty,  or  five  and  twenty  minutes. 
When  your  fowl  is  thoroughly  plump,  and  the  fmokc 

draip  fronn  th?  brcaft  to  th«  fire^  you  may  be  fure  that 

.     It 


it  is  very  near  done  $  then  bafte  it  with  .buttCTji  <iuft  oil 
a  very  littk  flour>  and  as  foori  as  it  has  a  good  frod^ 
fcnre  it  up. 

Jnothar  wa^.  Make  a  little  fbrCe-meat  with  die  Ji- 
vers^  fcraped  lard^  chopped  parfley^ '  fhalots,  peppery 
and  fait ;  ftufF  a  couple  of  chicken  with  .this>  trufled  for 
roailing ;  lay  a  couple  of  flices  of  lemon  on  each  breaft> 
and  wrap  them  up  in  thin  flices  of  lard  and  paper;  roaft 
them,  and  ferve  up  on  what  fort  of  ftewed  greens  you 
pleafe,  as  ipinach,  cucumbers,  &c^ 

To  mske  Sauce  for  the  Chickens.  .  Take  the  necks^ 
gizzards,  and  livers,  boil  them  in  water;  when  they  arre 
enough,  ftrain  ofF  die  gravy,  and  put  to  it  a  ipoon&i 
of  oyfter  pickle ;  take  the  livers,  break  them  fttiall,  mix 
(bme  gravy,  and  rub  them  through  a  hair  fieve  wi^  tht 
back  of  a  fpoon ;  then  put  to  It  a  ipoonful  of  creaixH 
fi>me  lemon,  and  lemon-peel  grated^:  chicken  it  up  with 
butter  and  flour.  Let  yoUr  faucc  be  no  thicker  diaii 
cream,  which  pour  upon  the  chickens.  GBxmtk  your 
difli  with  fippets,  muflirooms,  and  flices  of  lemon. 

They '  are  proper  for  a  fide  dilh  or  a  tap  difli,  cithei* 
lit  noon  or  night. 

To  fmajfee  Chickens.  Draw  and  wafli  your  chic- 
kens, half  boil  them,  then  take  them  up  and  cut  them 
in  pieces ;  put  them  in  a  fiying-pan,  and  fry  them  Jflf 
butter,  then  take  them  out  of  the  pan  and  clean  it;  ^ut 
In  fome  white  wmc,  fome  ftrong  bfoth,  ibme  grated 
nutmeg,  fak  and  pepper,  a  bunch  of  fwect  herbs,  an4 
a  fliabt  or  two ;  let  thefe,  with  two  or  three  anchovies^- 
ftew  on  a  flow  fire  and  boil  up,  then  beat  k  up  with- 
butter  and  eggs  tiU  it  is  thick^  put  your  chickens  in> 

an<^ 


CHICKENS,  MJ 

HmJi  tofi  them  wdl  together:  byfippets  in  the.dUhi; 
ierve  it  xip  w^th  0iced  lemon  and  fried  parfley. 

Some  direft  the  chicl(en$  to  be  fkirniec)  before  tbef 
are  cut  in  fmall  pieces. 

A  white  FricaJ^e  of  Chickens.  Cut  two  fmall  chk>9 
kens  in  pieces,  put  them  into  a  ftewpan  with  a  piece  of 
batter  and  a  litde  fk>ur,  fet  them  o^  the  fire  for  fj^  fxii-^ 
autes,  ftirring  them  ^li  the  tirne,  but  do  not  let  theni 
lyown ;  then  put  in  fbme  good  white  gravy,  with  a  little 
pariley  and  one  onion^  let  i;  flew  till  gender,  with  a 
blade  of  mace,  pepper  and  &lt  to  yoyr  tafte^  then  mix 
the  yolks  of  two  eg^  with  a  litde  cream,  put  it  to 
your  ch^ckeps,  let  it  fimmer,  but  not  boil ;  fqueeze  in  a 
iitde  lemon  juice,  and  ferye  them  \xp  hot  for  a  (ido 
difh  in  a  firfl  courfe. 

A  bnraun  Fricaffie  of  Chicrbns.  -  Cut  the  chickens 
into  fmall  pieces,  and  rub  them  over  with  the  yolks  of 
cggs;  have  ready  fome  grated  bread,  a  litde  beaten 
mace  and  nutmeg  mixed  together,  and  roll  them  in  it ; 
put  a  Uttle  butter  into  a  ftewpan,  and  when  melted  put 
in  your  meat.  Fry  them  of  a  fine  brown,  taking  care 
they  do  not  flick  to  the  bottom  of  the  pan ;  then  pour 
the^gravy  firom  them,  and  pour  in  half  a  pint  of  brown, 
gravy,  a  glafi  of  white  wine,  a  few  mufhrooms,  or  two 
fpoonfuls  of  the  pickle,  fait  if  neceflary,  and  a  piece  of 
butter  rolled  in  flour.  When  it  is  of  a  fine  thicknefs,^ 
(fiih.  it  up,  and  fend  it  to  table.  You  may  add  truffles, 
morels,  and  cocks  combs. 

Chickens  and  Peass.    Put  two  fmall  chickens  into 

abraife  of  fat  bacqn,  with  a  litde  broth,  and  a  blade  of 

maceji  let  them  ftew.  gendy  for  half  an  hour ;  wipe  them 

dcaoy^  and  lay  diem  in  your  difh  j  have  ready  a  faucc 

X  I  made 


t^  CHICKENS. 

jnadc  with  Haifa  pint  of  good  white  gravy,  a  litdc  good 
cream,  and  half  a  pint  of  green  peafe  boiled  tender  i 
thicken  it  with  a  piece  of  butter  and  flour,  let  it  fimmer, 
put  it  over  your  chickens,  and  ferve  them  up  hot  for  a 
fide  di(h. 

Chickens  and  Parsley  Roots,  Cut  fix  parflcy 
joocs  into  flices  one  inch  long,  and  fmall  -,  put  them  into 
a.  ftcwpan  with  a  pint  of  \^hite  gravy ;  let  them  ftew  till 
lender,  add  to  them  two  tea-cupsfuU  of  thick  cream, 
a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  butter,  a  little  flour,  with  pepper 
and  fait  to  your  tafte ;  have  ready  two  fmall  chickens 
boiled  in  milk  and  water  for  fifteen  minutes,  drain  them, 
lay  them  in  a  difli,  pour  the  fauce  over  them,  and  fervo 
them  up  hot  for  a  fide  or  corner  dilh  in  a  firft  courfe» 

Chickens  in  the  Dutch  way.    Three  large  diickenft 

will  be  enbugh ;  cut  off  die  pinions,  but  not  the  feet ; 

ftrip  off  the  fl:ockings  (as  they  are  called)  by  boiling 

water,  and  tie  them  down  upon  the  breafts ;  make  a 

force-meat  with  the  livers,  &c,  put  into  them  j  blanch 

them  nice  and  white  over  a  clear  ftove,  put  them  upon 

a«  lark  fpit,  and  tie  them  to  one  another,  with  fome  pjecca 

of  bacdn  and  plenty  of  buttered  paper ;  take  care  they 

are  cxadUy  coloured  as  you  would  roaft  a  chicken  in  the 

Englifh  way,  and  provide  your  fauce  as  follows :  Take 

fome  parOey  roots  that  are  not  fticky,  take  off  the  rinds, 

cut  them  in  thin  (liciss,  and  lay  them  to  foak  in  vinegar, 

ialt  and  water,  a  green  onion  or  two,  and  foipe  parfley 

and  fhalots,  with  a  blade  of  mace  and  whole  pepper, 

for  two  or  three  hours ;  fry  them  very  foftly  in  a  bit  of 

butter,  wafh  them  afterwards  in  viarm  water  j  put  them 

into  fome  cuUis,,  with  a  good  dafli  of  fome  iharp  white 

wine ;  boil  it  all  together  with  a  xnioced  tnuihroom  or 

two^ 


.1 
s 


CHICKENS,  jac 

•  ^  *     ^ 

tw^,  or  a  gceen  truffie,  -a  little  pepppr,  fait,,  and  nut- 
meg i  h^ve  a  good  quantity  of  parfley  leaves  boiled 
liice  and  ^een,  Hir  it  into  your  roots  juft  before  it  goes 
to  table  J  clean  your  chickens  frpai  greafe,  and  lay  thcnn 
in  your  difh ;  make  your  fauce  boiling  hot,  add  the  juice 
of  two  or  three  lenoons  or  oranges,  and  ferve  it  up. 

Jo  make  artificial  Chickens  or  Pigeons.  Make  a  rich 
force-meat  with  veal,  lamb,  or  chicken?,  feafoned  with 
pepper,  fait,  parfley,  a  fhallot,  a  piece  of  fat  bacon,  a 
little  butter,  and  the  yolk  o(  an  egg ;  work  it  up  in  the 
Ih^pe  of  pigeons  or  phickens,  putting  the  foot  of  the 
bird  you  intend  it  for  in  the  middle,  fo  as  juft  to  appear 
ac  the  bottom  i  roll  the  force-meat  very  well  in  the  yolk 
of  an  egg,  then  in  the  crumbs  of  bread,  fend  them  to 
the  oven,  on  tin  plates  well  buttered,  byt  do  not  let 
them  touch  each  other;  and  bake  it  a  light  brown. 
You  may  fend  them  to  the  table  dry,  or  gravy  in  the  difh, 
juft  as  you  like. 

Chicken  in  Jelly.  Pour  fame  jelly  into  a  bowl ;  when 
Fpld,  lay  in  a  cold  roafted  chicken,  breaft  downward; 
fill  up  the  bowl  with  jelly  juft  warm,  but  as  little  as  pol^ 
fible  fo  as  not  to  be  fet;  wJien  quite  cold,  fet  the  bowl 
in  warm  water,  juft  to  loofen  the  jelly,  turn  it  out.  Put 
the  chicken  into  the  jelly  the  day  before  it  is  wanted. 

Chickens  infavory  Jelly.  Take  two  chickens  and 
roaft  them.  Boil  fomc  calves  feet  to  a  ftrong  jelly ;  then 
take  out  the  ktt^  and  Ikim  off  the  fat  -,  beat  up  the 
whites  of  three  eggs,  and  mix  them  with  half  a  pint  of 
^hite  wine  vinegar,  the  juice  of  three  lemons,  a  blade  or 
two  of  mace,  a  few  pepper  corns,  and  a  little  fait.  Put 
them  to  your  jelly,  and  when  it  has  boiled  five  or  fix  mi- 
nutes, ftrain  it  fevcral  times  through  a  jelly  bag,  till  it 

Ysih  I.  Gg  i» 


aa$  CHICKENS. 

is  veiy  clear ;  then  put  a  little  in  the  bottom  of  a 
bowl  large  enough  to  hold  your  chickens,  and  when 
they  are  cold,  and  the  jelly  fct,  lay  them  in  with  their 
bre^  down.  Then  fill  your  bowl  quite  full  with  the 
reft  of  your  jelly,  which  you  muft  take  care  to  keep 
froip  fetting,  fo  that  when  you  pour  it  into  the  bowl  it 
will  not  break.  Let  it  ftand  all  night;  and  the  next  day 
put  your  bafbn  in  warm  water,  pretty  near  the  top.  As 
loon  as  you  find  it  loofe  in  the  bafon^  lay  your  difti  over 
it,  and  turn  it  out  whole. 

Chickens  a  la  Duchejfe.  Take  two  chickens,  draw 
and  fplit  them,  bone  them  all  byt  the  pinions,  and  leave 
the  feet  on, — flat  them  with  a  cleaver,  feafon  them  with 
pepper,  fait,  and  mace,  ^  litde  parfley,  two  fhallots, 
and  ;wo  muOiroqms  flired  fine;  put  a  piece  of  butter  in 
a  ftewpan,  and  fiy  them  a  little  i  add  to  them  a  pint  of 
gravy,  and  a  litde  lemon  juice  j  let  them  ftew  for  half 
^n  hour^  put  to  them  a  quarter  qf  a  pound  of  butter  and 
a  little  (lour,  let  it  juft  boil ;  lay  your  chickens  in  a  difh, ' 
pour  your  fauce  over  them  j  and  fervp  them  up  for  a  fide 
fir  corner  difh. 

ChickensuJ/j  braze.  Lard  a  pouple  of  fine  chickens, 
and  feafoA  them  with  pepper,  fait,  and  mace;  then  lay  a 
layer  of  ycal  in  die  bottom  of  a  deep  ftewpan,  with  a 
flice  or  nyo  of  bacon,  an  onion  cut  to  pieces,  a  piece  qf 
parrot,  and  a  layer  of  beef  j  then  lay  in  the  chickens  with 
^he  breaft  downward,  and  a  bundle  of  fweet  herbs;  after 
that  a  layer  of  beef,  and  put  in  a  quart  of  broth  or  water; 
pover  it  clofe,  let  it  ftew  very  foftly  for  an  hour,  after  it 
begips  to  fimmer.  In  the  mean  time  get  ready  a  ragoo 
thus :-— Take  a  good  veal  fwcct-bread,  or  two,  cut  theih 
foiall,  fct  them  on  the  fire,  widi  a  very  litde  broth  or 


Chickens.  227 

ii^ateri  a  few  cocks-combs,  tniffles,  and  morels>  cut  finally 
with  an  ox-palate,  if  you  have  it;  ttew  them  all  together 
till  they  arc  enough,  and  when  your  chickens  are  done^ 
take  them  lip,  and  keep  them  hot;  then  ftrain  the  liquor 
they  were  ftewed  jn,  (kimthefat  ofi^  and  pour  into  yoirf 
ragoo;  add  a  glafs  of  red  wine>  afpoonful  of  catchup, 
and  a  few  mulhrooms;  then  boil  all  together  with  a  few 
artichoke  bottoms  cut  in  four,  and  afparagus  tops.  If 
your  iauce  is  not  thick  enough,  take  a  little  piece  of 
butter  rolled  in  flour,  and  when  enough,  lay  yoiir 
chickens  in  the  difh,  and  pour  the  ragoo  over  theni* 
Garniih  with  lemon. 

Or  you  may  make  youi-  fauce  thus:  Take  the  gravy 
the  fowls  were  ftewed  in,  Ibrain  it,  fldm  oflF  the  fat;  have 
ready  half  a  pint  of  oyfters,  with  the  liquor  ftrained,  put 
them  to  your  gravy,  with  a  glafs  of  )vhite  wine,  a  good 
piece  of  butter  rolled  in  flour  1  then  boil  them  all  toge^^ 
thcr,  and  pour  over  yoiir  fowls.     Garnifh  with  lemon. 

Chickens  after  the  Scotch  manner.  Singe  the  chickc^ns, 
dien  waih  and  dry  them  in  a  clean  cloth;  cut  thein  into 
quarters,  and  pui  them  into  a  fauce-pan  with  juft  water 
.enough  to  cover  them;  put  in  a  litde  bunch  of  parfley,  si 
Utde  chopped  parfley,  and  a  blade  or  two  of  mace,  co- 
ver them  clofe  down;  beat  up  five  or  fix  eggs  ynth  the 
.  whites,  and  when  the  liquor  ix)iis,  pour  the  eggs  into  Ih 
.  When  the  chickens  arc  enough,  take  but  the  buricK  of 
parfley,  and  lend  them  to  table  with  the  liquor  in  A 
deep  difli.  •  They  mull  be  well  Ikimmed  while  they  are 
doing. 

CmcKMsroaJed  with  force-meat  and  tiucufHhers.  Drels 
two  chickens,  neady  break  the  breaft  bone,  and  make 
^ce-meat  thus:  take  the  flelh  of  afowl^  and  of  two  pigeons, 

tf  g  a  with 


laS  C  H  I  C  k  k  N  S. 

With  fome  iflices  of  hartn  or  bacon ;  chop  them  dl  vfS 
together,  take  the  crumb  6f  a  "penny-loaf  feaked  m 
imilk  and  boiled ;  when  it  is  cool,  mix  all  together ;  (ca- 
fon  It  with  beaten  mice,  nutmeg,  pepper,  a!nd  a  little 
.  fait,  a  very  Tittle  thyme,  (ome  paffley,  arid  ^  little  lemon 
peel,  with  the  yolk's  of  two  eggs;  then  fill  your  fowls, 
iplit  them,  and  tye  them  at  both  ends.  After  you  haV* 
papered  tlic  breaft,  take  four  cucumbers,  cut  them  in 
two,  and  lay  them  ih  fait  and  v^^ater  tw6  6r  three  hotirt 
before*;  'then  dry  them,  and  fill  therti  Vith  fome  of  die 
force-meat,  which  ydu  triuft  take  care  to  fav^e,  arid  tie 
them  with  a  packthread ;  flour  them,  and  ffy  tHenfi  of 'a 
fine  brown.  When  your  chickens  are'enoiigh,  lay  them 
In  the  difh,  arid  untie  your  cucumbers,  but  take  care  the 
jneat  does  hot  come  out;  then  lay  them  found  the 
chiclcens,  with  the  flat  fide  downwards,  and  the  harroii^^ 
end  upwards.  Yoii  muft  have  fome  'rich  fi'ied  gravy, 
and  pour  into  the  dilh ;  then  garnifh  with  lemon. 

One  large  fowl  dohe  this  way,  xvlth  the  encumbers  laid 
round  it,  looks  pretty,  and  is  a  very  good  ^iih, 

A  CuRREY  the  Indian  iibay.     Skin  two  fmall  chickens, 

'^^ctit  therii  as  for  a  fi'icaflee,  wafli  them  ckari,  ind  ftew 

them  in  about  a  quart  of  water  for  about  five  minutes, 

then  ftrain  ofFtKe  liquor,  and  put  the  chickens  in  a  clean 

difh;  take  three  large  onions,  chop  them  fmall,  and  fiy 

'them  in  about  two  otinc6s- of  butter;  then  put 'in  the 

'chickens^  and  fry  them  together  till  they  are  brown; 

take  a  quarter  of  an  ounce  of  turmeriek,  >  krge  Ipoori- 

ful  of  ginger  and  beaten  pepper  together,  and  a  little 

'fak  'to  your  palate;  ftrew  all  thefe  ingredients  over  the 

chickens,  whilft  fi^ying,  then  pour  in  the  liquor,  tmd let 

'it  ftew  about  half  an  hour;  then  pnt'ih  uqtiarter  of  ti 

pint 


CHICKENS.  44^ 

pint  of  cream,  and  the  juice  of  tw^  lentonsj  zxA  fcrvt  it 
lap.  The  ginger,  pepper,  and  turmei-ick,  muft  be  beat 
very  fine.  - 

To  fitw  Chickens.  Half-boil  two  fine  chickens,  cat 
them  up,  fcparatmg  every  joint  One  from  the  other,  and 
taking  out  the  breaft  bones.  If  the  fowls  do  ftOt 
produce  Jiquor  Efficient,  ^d  a  few  Ipoonfak  <^the 
water  in  which  they  were  boSed,  and  put  in  a  blade  of 
mace  and  a  little  fait.  Cover  it  clofe  with  another  difli, 
and  fet  it  over  a  ftove  or  chafing-difli  of  coals.  Let  it 
Itew  till  the^  chickens  are  enough,  and  then  fend  them 
hot  to  the  tabfe. 

The  above  is  a  very  pretty  dilhfbr  a  fick  perfon,  or  for 
a  lying-in  lady;  and  the  fauce  is  very  agreeable  andpretty» 
You  nnay  do  rabbits,  partridges,  or  moor-game  this  w^i 

TofteTV  Chickens  the  Dutch  way.  Trufs  two  chickens, 
as  for  boiling;  beat  fine  fix  cloves  and  four  blades  of 
mace,  a  handful '  of  parfley  flired  fine,  fome  pepper 
and  lalt;  mix  all  together  and  put  into  the  inlide  of 
your  chickens,  finge  them  and  flour  them,  *  put  them 
into  a  ftewpan;  <:larify^as  much  butter  as  will  cover 
them,  ftew  them  gently  one  hoiir,  put  them  into  a 
china  bowl  with  the  butter,  and  fend  them  up  hot. 

To  force  Chickens.  Roaft  your  chickens  better  than 
half,  take  ofi^  the  fkin,  then  the  meat,  and  chop  it  fmall 
with  (hred  parfley  and  crumbs  of  bread,  pepper  and  fal^ 
and  a  litde  good  cream;  then  put  in  the  meat,  and  clofe 
the  flcin;  brown  it  with  a  falamander,  and  ferve  it  up 
with  white  fauce. 

Chickens  hajhedy  calkd^Bichamele.  Cut  a  cold  chicken 
to  pieces,  litde  bones  and  all;  if  there  be  no  gravy,  make 
a  litde  yfixh  the  long  bones,  onion^  fpice,  *&c.  fldur  the 

chicken 


«36  CHICKENS; 

thicken,  put  it  into  the  gravy,  with  white  pepper^  faltj 
nutmeg,  and  grated  lemon  peel ;  let  it  boil,  then  ftir  in 
in  egg,  mixed  with  a  litde  cream.  When  it  is  taken  off 
flic  fire,  fqlleeic  in  a  litde  lemon  juice,  put  it  into  a  dilh^ 
lay  ovei-  it  fome  bread  crumbs,  and  brown  them  with  a 
ialamander; 

Stewed  Chickens,  t>r  MaTlot;  Cut  a  carp  with  the 
roe  in' pieces  $  aUb  a  chicken  cut  in  pieces,  one  dozen 
and  a  half  of  fmall  onions,  a  (lice  of  hdm,  a  faggot  of 
J)arflcy  and  green  onions,  thyme,  laurd,  bafil,  ahd  four 
cloves;  put  dl  togedier  into  a  ftewpan  with  a  pieee  of 
butter;  fimmer  a  litde  on  a  flow  Hre;  then  add  iH-oth, 
cullis,  a  litde  white  wine,  flour,  pepper j  and  fait;  let  it 
'ftew  till  the  chicken  is  done,  &c.  and  the  fauce  reduced; 
take  out  the  faggot  and  ham,  add  a  chopped  anchovy 
and  a  few  capers,  and  place  the  chicken  oh  a  difli;  fldnri 
the  fauce,  and  fcrve  it  with  the  rtieat.  Garnifli  widi 
^ed  bread. 

ChicreiIs  CHiitiNGRA^E.  Having iCut  ofi^the  fcct  df 
^ur  chickens,  beat  the  bread  bone  flat  widi  i  i-olling- 
J)in,  biit  take -card  yoti  do  itot  break  the  flcin.  Floilr 
'  them,  fry  them  of  a  fine  brcfwn  in  butter,  ind  then  drain 
all  the  fat  out  of  the  pan,  but  leave  the  chickehs  in.  Lsfjr 
a  poimd  of  gravy-beef,  cut  very  thin,  over  your  chicken^ 
and  a  piece  of  veal  cut  very  thin,  a  litde  mace,  two  dr 
three  cloves,  fome  whole  pepper,  an  onioon,  a  little 
bunch  of  fweet  herbs,  arid  a  piece  of  carrot.  Then  poiir 
in  a  quart  of  boiling  water,  cover  it  clofe,  and  let  it  fl:ew 
for  a  quarter  of  an  hour^  then  take  out  the  chickens^ 
and  keep  them  hot;  let  die  gravy  boil  till  it  is  quite  ricK 
and  good,  then  ftrain  it  off  and  put  it  into  yqur  pan  agaih^ 

wiih 


CHICKENS,  431; 

With  two  Ipoonfuls  of  red  wine,  and  a  few  muflirooim; 
Put  in  your  chickens  to  heat,  then  take  them  up,  lay 
diem  into  your  difh,  and  pour  the  iauce  over  them, 
Gamiih  with  lemon  and  a  few  fliccs  of  h?un  broiled. 

Chickens  inAfpic.  '  Put  the  pinions,  livers,  and  gi24 
zards  into  two  fmall  chickens,  with  a  piece  pf  butter^ 
fome  pepper  and  fait;  cover  them  with  fat  bacon,  then 
with  paper;  fpit  them  on  a  long  Ikcwer,  tie  them  to  a 
fpit,  rodl  them.  When  cold,  cut  them  up,  put  them 
into  die  following  Iauce,  fliake  them  round  in  it,  let 
them  lie  a  few  minutes  before  they  are  dijfhed. — ^Take 
what  cullis  is  fufficient  for  fauce,  heat  it  with  fmall  green 
onions  chopped,  or  fhallot,  a  litde  tarragon  and  green 
mint,  pepper  and  fait. 

Chickens  and  Tongubs,  Boilfix  fmall  chickens  vcrjr 
white;  then  take  fix  hogs*  tongues  boiled  and  peeled,  ^ 
cauliflower  boiled  whole  in  milk  and  water,  and  a  good 
deal  of  Ipinach  boiled  green.  Then  lay  your  cauliflower 
In  the  middle,  the  chickens  clofe  all  round,  and  the 
tongues  round  them  with  the  roots  outwards,  and  the 
Ipinach  in  litde  heaps  between  the  tongues.  Gamifh 
with  little  pieces  of  bacon  toafted,  and  lay  a  litde  piece 
op  each  of  the  tongues.  This  is  a  good  difli  for  a  large 
company. 

Chicken  PuUed.  Take  a  chicken  that  has  been 
f'oailed  or  boiled,  if  under  done  the  better,  cut  off  the  legs 
and  the  rump  and  fide-bones  together;  puU  all  the  white 
part  in  little  flakes,  fi-ee  from  Ikin;  tofi  it  up  with  a  little 
cream,  thicken  it  with  a  piece  of  butter  mixed  with  flour; 
ftir  it  till  the  butter  is  melted,  with  pounded  mace,  whole 
pepper^  ahd  ialt,  a  litde  lemon-juice.    Put  this  intp  a 


J 


43*  CHILBLAINS. 

dift»  ia]f  the  ramp  m  the  nuddk>  th^  legs  th  each  end, 
l^ppcped)  fiUted,  and  bxoiled. 

Sa  fij  cqU  Chicken.  Quvter  your  chicken,  rub 
the  quarters  wilh  yolk  of  egg;  flrew  on  bread-crumbs^ 
pepper,  fah,  nutmeg,  grated  lemon-peel,  and  chopped 
parfley ;  fry  them;  thicken  fome gravy  with  a  Utde  flour, 
add  kyan,  mufhroom  powder,  or  catchup,  a  little  lemon* 
jwicc;  pour  it  ipto  thedilh  with  the  chickens. 

fa  htcil  CfiiOK^Ns.  Slit  your  chickens  down  the  back, 
h^Soti  them  with  pepper  and  f^t,  and  lay  them  on  the 
gridiren  over  4  elear  iire,  and  at  z,  great  diftance.  Let 
the  tBilde  continue  next  the  fire  till  it  is  nearly  half  done; 
dien  turn  them,  taking  care  that  the  flefhy  Tides  do  not 
burn,  and  let  them  broil  till  they  are  of  a  fine  brown. 
fiwo  goo^  gravy-fauce,  with  Ibme  mufhrooms,  and 
g^nifh  thism  with  l^mon  and  the  liver  broiled,  and  the 
gizzards  cut,  flafhed,  and  broiled,  with  pepper  and  faltj 
©r  you  may  ufe  any  other  fauce  you  fanqy;  as  white 
nufhrooqi  fauce,  or  melted  butter  with  pickled  mulh^ 
sooms. 


CHILBLAINS: 

Chilblains  often  attack  children  and  grown  people  iij 
%^  wither.  They  are  generally  occafioned  by  the  feet 
1^  h^ds  being  kqpt  wet  w  cold,  and  afterwards  fudr- 
lUnly  he^ed.  When  children  ^e  cold,  inftead  of  takr 
«f)g  eiercife  ta  warm  thenifelvcs  gradually,  they  run  to 
tlie  foe  i  this  occafipns  a  fiidden  rarefaftion  of  the  hur 
fiiours,  and  a  fjureiiingof  Ae  veffels;  which  being  often 
f«p«tfcd,£be  Fcffel^are,  at  laft^over-diflended,  and  forced 

2 


CHILBLAINS.  ajj 

to  give  way:  and  hence  follow  chaps  and  flits,  that  if 
ucglcfted  become  ulcerous  and  difcharge  matter. 

For  prevention,  violent  cold  and  fudden  heat  muft  be 
equally  avoided.  When  the  parts  begin  to  look  red  and 
iwell,  the  patient  out  to  be  purged,  and  to  have  the  af- 
fefted  parts  rubbed  frequendy  with  muftard  and  brandy, 
or  fomething  of  a  warming  nature.  They  ought  like- 
wife  to  be  covered  with  flannel,  and  kept  warm  and  dry. 
Some  apply  warm  afties  betwixt  cloth  to  the  fwelled  parts, 
which  frequendy  help  to  reduce  them.  When  there  is  a 
fore,  it  muft  be  drefled  with  Turner's  cerate,  the  oint- 
ment of  tutty,  plafter  of  cerus,  or  fome  other  drying 
ointment.  Thefe  fores  are  indeed  troublefome,  but  lei- 
dom  dangerous  j  they  generally  heal  as  foon  as  the  warm 
weather  fets  in. 

Opodeldoc  is  found  to  be  a  very  fafe  external  applicatiou 
&r  chilblains  in  the  feet^ 

Chilblains  render  the  hands  exceflive  ugly,  by  the 
fwellings, .  and  fomctimes  the  chaps  they  occafion.  The 
IhA  preventative  to  guard  againft  colds,  is  wearing  foft 
leather  gloyes,  and  never  foaking  the  hands  in  any  thing 
hot. 

If  prevention  is  unfuccelsful,  and  chilblains  appear, 
you  may  diflblve  half  a  dram  of  aloes,  and  a  dram 
of  campl^re  in  (ix  ounces  of  good  brandy;  dip  a  linen 
doth  in  this  liquor,  and  apply  it  to  the  chilblains,  having 
firft  rubbed  them  gendy  with  the  oil  of  almonds,  and 
^ntinuc  this  till  the  complaint  is  remove^. 

There  being  no  room  to  doubt  but  th^t  cold  is  the 
caufe  of  chilblains,  it  follows  that  the  cure  muft  chiefly 
^fift  in  rcftoring  the  blood  to  its  former  fluidity  and 
fee  circulation  as  ibon  as  poflible.    In  the  external  ^ 

Vol,  I.  Hh  treatment 


^34  CHIL&REN. 

treatment  on  the  iirft  appearance  of  the  Inflamnudoq^ 
great  fervice  may  be  had  from  a  few  glafles  of  hot  win^ 
v^herein  ibme  cinnamon  and  fugar  have  been  difiblved^ 
giving  alternately  with  the  wine  a  Imail  quantity  of  fome^ 
fweating  mixture ;  or  good  ale^  boiled  w!Ch  cinnamon^ 
cloves^  and  fugar^  will  do  as  well  as  wine.  It  mv&  be 
continued  fb  as  tp  keep  the  fweat  for  an  hour  or  up--^ 
wardsj  according  to  the  degree  of  the  complaint.  And 
however  flight  the  diforder^  this  method  is  much  more; 
cert^n  than,  and  preferable  to  any  other. 

If  the  peribn  is  fubjeft  to  an  annual  return  of  this  com-^ 
plaint^  the  beft  prefervative  is  to  anoint  the  parts  affected 
with  petrioleum,  or  oil  (^  turpentine,  before  and  after. 
the  ieverity  of  the  winter:  when  the  difbrder  has  fliewA. 
itfelf,  the  application  recommended  above  may  be  had 
recourfe  to  5  or  the  afflided  pan  may  be  wrapped  in  a 
fwine's- bladder,  dipped  in  the  lad  mentioned  oil>  taking:^ 
care  to  avoid  cold  by  proper  doathing* 


CHILD-BED. ^See  Disorders  of  Womew. 


CHILDREN. 

.  The  bills  of  mortality  furniih  us  with  melancholy 
proofs  of  the  great  care  and  attention  neceflary  in  the 
f  refervation  of  infants.  In  the  metropolis>  where  air, 
cxercife,  and  cleanlinefs  are  too  tnuch  wanting,  e^ecially 
among  the  poorer  clais,  it  is  not  furprifing  that  fb  large 
a  proportion  of  their  offspring  ifaould  be  configned^  ap 
ciijy  and  untimdy  grave.    In  the  coiiQtry,  indeed^  chi^. 

<til 


..  J 


C  H  I  £  D  R  E  K.  a  j5 

erft  b  Ids  predominant :  where  the  parents  are  devoted 
to  the  labours  of  hufbaiidry  only,  Ae  children  are  in  ge- 
neral healthy;  but  ID  manufa£turing  towns  and  villages^ 
diey  partsJce  for  the  moft  part  of  the  fame  fate  which  at-- 
tends  the  inhabitants  of  the  metropolis. 

Nor  is  the  want  o(care  alone  dcftruftive  to  the  human 
Q>ecies  in  die  infant  ftatej  ignorant  nurfes,  and  other  af- 
fiftants,  too  frequently  and  ofHcioufly  introduce  fuch  a 
v^  number  of  articles,  wholly  unneceflary,  and  often  in* 
jurious>  in  the  food,  cloadis,  and  medicines  of  infants, 
that  the  lofs  of  great  numbers  may  be  attributed  to  this 
ifi-applied  and  over-bufy  zeal* 

Another  principal  caufe  of  the  dcftruftion  of  infants, 
is  the  want  of  that  nourtfliment  which  nature  has  pro- 
vided for  their  fuftenance,  and  the  ftibftitiition  of  foreign 
sdiment,  often  unwholefome,  and  always  unnatural. 

It  is,  however,  by  no  means  juft  to  fuggeft,  that  every 
mother  is  capable  of  fuckling  her  own  child,  or  that  all 
modiers  are  alike  capacitated  for  this  neceffary  tafk; 
many  cafes  offer  in  which  it  is  impraAicable,  and  others 
in  which  it  would  be  imprudent,  and  equally  dangerous  to 
die  mother  and  infant.  Women  who,  from  delicate  habits 
or  confiitutions,  are  fubjcft  to  nervous  or  hyfleric  com^ 
|4aints,  are  certainly  unqualified  to  obey  the  calls  of  nature 
in  the  perfiumance  of  a  duty  fo  tender,  agreeable,  and 
cflbndal.  But  the  mere  zSt  of  giving  fuck  is  by  no 
Means  to  be  xonfidcred  as  the  only  bufujefs  of  the  mo- 
Aer;  a  variety  of  other  circumftances  demand  her  atten- 
tion,  and  the  future  health,  happinefs,  and  comfort  of  her 
duld,  depend  on  her  care  and  managment  in  this  early 
fieriod  of  it;8  oaSctDct^ 

Hha  In 


^^6  C  H  I  I.  D  R  E  N. 

In  the  very  important  article  of  cleanlinefs,  the  m©* 
ther's  eye  is  above  all  things  neccflary:  nuries  and  fer- 
vants  are  but  too  apt  to  relax  in  their  regards  to  the  falu- 
tary  regulations  of  neatnels  and  delicacy^  yet  we  may 
venture  to  affirm,  that  many  lives  are  loft  by  negligence 
in  this  particular,  and  that  clean  water,  clean  linen,  and 
conftant  attention  to  the  evacuations  of  infants,  would 
prevent  many  difcafes,  and  in  general  confirm  and 
ftrengthen  the  moft  robuft  and  beft  conftrufted  conftitu- 
tions. 

The  milk  of  the  mother,  or,  where  for  the  foregoing 
reafons^  that  cannot  be  applied,  of  a  young,  whoUbme> 
and  Ibber  nurfc,  is  the  food  apparendy  pointed  out  for  an 
infant  by  Nature :  flie  has  in  general  provided  apd  pre- 
pared a  quantity  proper  for  its  fuftenance;  and  all  en-* 
dcavours  to  bring  up  children  without  the  breaft  are 
iuch  abilird  innovations  on  her  dictates,  that  it  is  by  no 
.means  to  ^  wondered  at,  that  in  fuch  attempts  not  one 
in  fifty  fucceeds;  and  that  even  where  they  fecm  to 
thrive  for  a  few  weeks,  or  months,  breeding  the  teeth, 
the  fmall-pox,  and  other  difeafes  to  which  young  chil- 
dren are  peculiarly  liable,  in  frequent  inftances  prove 
fatal  to  them. 

Children  commonly  fhew  a  difpofition  to  fuck  very 
fliordy  after  their  birth,  and  they  fhould  unqueftionably 
be  immediarely  indulged,  if  the  mother's  milk  begins  to 
flow  into  the  breaft  j  and  Ihogld  it  be  flow  in  its  pro- 
grefs,  the  natural  induftry  of  the  infant  will  fpcedily  fup* 
ply  the  deficiency :  the  firft  milk  it  can  draw  is  the  beft 
medicine  in  the  world  to  cleanfe  its  litde  ftomach  and 
bowels  of  the  matter  acquired  in  fhe  wombi  and  at  the 

fame 


C  H  I:LD  R  E1^;  «J7 

4tosne  drtie  It  contributes  to  die  fafctjr  of  the  mother,  by- 
preven^g  milk  fevers,  inflammations,  and  other  c6m« 
pJaints  incident  to  women  in  child-bed. 

But  if  the  bread  milk-  cannot  be  fpeedity  obtained,  4 
littfe  oatmeal  gruel,  or  thin  pap,  mixed  with  new  mijk 
in  equal  quantity,  or  rather  water,  with  the  addition  oC 
a  little  moift  fugar  only,  with  very  little  wine  or  Ipice^  is 
the  only  food  that  can  be  given  wkh  fafety,  and  without? 
incurring  the  danger  of  heating  the  blood,  and  pro- 
ducing gripes,  by  overcharging  the  ftomach,    . 

'  Nor  will  the  child  need  much  other  food  of  any  kind» 
for  the  firft  three  or  four  months,  if  the  ipother  or  hurle 
is  in  health,  and  has  a  lufficient  quantity  of  miUc*  -After 
that  time,  it  fliould  be  accuftomed  to  take  ibmewhat  eafy 
of  digeilion,  once  or  twice  in  a  day:  water  pap  is  the 
moft  common,  and  the  moft  light  and  wholfome  food* 
As  the  child  advances,  weak  broths  may  poflibly  be  bed: 
adapted  to  prepare  for  the  change  that  will  happen  on 
weaning,  as  it  is  extremely  ncceflary  to  guard  againft 
fudden  tranfittons.  To  avoid  which,  the  food,  even  be- 
foKy  and  for  fome  time  after  it  is  weaned,  ought  to  be 
wholly  of  a  very  funple  nature,  and  either  to  confift  prm-* 
cipally  of  milk  itfelf,  or  to  have  as  nearly  as  pofllble  the^ 
lame  properties* 

As  ibon  as  the  child  ihews  a  defire  to  chew,  good 
bread  may  be  given  it  in  any  realbnable  quantity :  the 
action  of  chewing  will  facilitate  the  cutting  the  teeth, 
and  helps  the  difcharge  of  the  fpitde  i  and  if^  inilead 
of  corals,  or  other  hard  fubftances,  a  cruft  of  bread  is 

put  into  the  child's  hands>  it  will  ^nfwer  the  4wble  pur-^ 

pofe 


43f  CMlLDlt  SK? 

pik  <feiff»df^Ag  tte  garni,  A]id  alMfIng  die  heat  andf 
kchiisg  which  accompanies  die  breeding  of  teedi. 

The  quantity  of  feod,  dMij^  fldtof  lApiai  impomnec 
'#ith  the  quality  of  it,  is  yeC4uv  (^je6i:  of  grdit  attehcton  ^ 
^  6verk)iadihg  their  little  ftomachs,  which  is  ofteit 
•cffedked  by  enticing  them  to  cat  of  pap  or  gruel  hi^jr 
l^eci:ened>  they  ^ow  fat,  heavy,  and  inaftive;  the  ^^ 
jpetites  of  iiifams  i^qmre  no  faucet  to  qiiideen  thaiv 
Irtii^er  6n]f  fliould  dir^ft  their  meals;  nor  can  any 
praflice  be*  more  abiurd,  than  that  of  perpetual  cram-- 
diing  tifem  wkb  food,  which  they  are  only  induced  to 
fake  by  its  being  made  fweec  and  palatable.  Even  as 
Ae  thild  advances,  bread  firft  boiled  in  waler,  and  d^eii 
^▼^n  in  fieW  milk,  light  broths  of  veal  or  chieken  withf 
fcread>  and  bread-puddings  wi&out  the  addition  of  fugar, 
yffW^  eohftitute  -s  wholfome  and  nourifking  diet.  CuftoM 
has  iintrodueed  an  imntoderate  ufe  of  fug^,  which  is 
ipt  to  product  heats  and  acidides;  and  if  the  child  ha^ 
BCTCf  tailed  ic,  it  wiH  feel  no  lofs  in  the  want  of  it.  Nor 
fi^uld  Ae  mother's  milfc  be  given  in  over-quantities,  lo 
iB  t*»-  induee  i«  to-  difcharge  what'  it  has  Iwdlowed  by  to- 

e         ^  » 

iiiittng;  a  praftice  too  comttion,  from  an  exeeis  of  mo- 
ftcrfy  tendcmefr.  At  the  fame  time  care  is  neceflaryi 
that  the  infant  fhould  have  fuftenance  enough.  Of 
Ae"  #wo  extrchics,  pinching  children  in  their  food  is 
iertaihly  t^  moft  dangerous;  Nature  wifl  difcharge  an 
fvMtoaded  (bMiach,  }Mi  cannot  fupply  the  calls  of 
j&^nger,  ot  tfic  ftrength  which  muft  be  ^rivcd  from 
AoiMftiment  alone.-  The  bcft  rule  that  cah  be  given,  i^ 
eo  fwtf  iSha  child  d^rtj  with  rttoderate  quantities;  thdi 

contiiary 


ff  regultMK]r»  ts  tp  diciiifnes  qf  giving /ood,  is  ^  greait 
Utility,  M  wdl  as  a  ibrijSb  jregulation  that  no  more  bt 
o6fcred  «:>  an  ux6int  after  it  difaovers  any  tokens  of  loadi^ 

iog. 

Aiusnal  (ood  ^ould  bf^  given  to  children  wkh  a  v^ 
Qitfing  hand;  tbfiy  ihould  not  ht  fuflT^red  to  tafte  k  till 
fhey  Imc  ceoth^  i^ibOtdd  they  be  permitted  to  take  ic 
m  any  confideral^  quantity  t^  after  they  are  weaned. 
Flcfh  occafions  heats>  and  produces  inflami:nations,  fevers^ 
and  odier  difeafes,  which  ufuatty  affeft  grois  habits  ^  and 
a  vegetable  diet  only  is  apt  to  turn  four  on  the  ftomacbc 
a  due  proportion  of  eachy  with  the  balance^  however^  19 
fevour  of  the  latter^  is,  widiout  doubt,  the  moft  lalutai^ 
fcgiBtien* 

Ovor-fbndnefs,  and  a  defire  that  the  child,  ihould  par«> 
cicipate  in  whatever  die  parents  particularly  eftMm,  loa 
^niintroduces  a  pernicious  cuftom,  of  permitting  it  0* 
partake  of  whatever  comes  to  their  table;  by  this  means 
It  is  not  only  indulged  in  a  ve^y  impropo-  mixture  of 
things  a£hially  hurtful  in  themfelves,  but  it  acquires  a 
relifli  for  high  feaibfied  meats,  and  rich  iauces;  which^ 
at  all  times  noxious^  in  the  early  ftages  i^life  certainlf 
vitiate  the  blood,  and  lay  the  foundation  for  a  thoufand 
<fifo«Ies.  Strong  broths  and  foups,  made  diihes,  very 
fit  meats,  falted,  fmoaked,  and  high  fpiced  provifions, 
fliould  be  totally  bankhed  from  the  bill  of  fare  for  chil^ 
drei^  and  ftrong  fermented  liquors  of  every  kind  ihould 
be  avoided  with  the  fameftrid:  attention.  Light,  plain^ 
and  fimple  food  in  moderate  quantities,  nreferving  a  pro-* 
portion  0f  folids  and  fluids,  and  clear,  pure  water^  will 
•.    ,  z  lay 


*40  CHILDREN. 

X 

lay  in  fuch  a  ftock  o^  healdi  and  ftren^  as  will  cnd>]e 
the  infant  to  combat  the.  various  diftempers  to  which  it  19 
liable;  and  fuch  a  regimen  will  difarm  the  fmall-^poic^ 
meafles,  hooping-eoughi  and  other  inflammatory  difor- 
^ers,  of  the  terrors  with  which  they  are  ufually  accom- 
panied :  but  if  fome  other  drink  muft  be  given  to  them> 
let  it  be  milk  and  water,  whey,  fmall-beer  of  a  proper 
age  and  fihenefs,  or  a  very  fmaU  portion  of  wine  mixed 
with  their  water;  the  latter,  however,  is  in  mod  cafes^ 
better  omitted.  ' 

Ripe  fruits  in  moderate  quantities,  and  of  particular 
kinds,  (iich  as  ftrawberries,  rafberies,  ciu-rants,  and  ap<^ 
pies,  far  from  being  injurious  to  children,  may  in  many 
cafes  produce  very  good  effects :  they  ferve  to  cool  and 
correft  hot  and  acrimonious  humours,  promote  digeftion^ 
and  keep  the  body  from  being  coflive. 

But  we  would  by  no  means  infinuate  that  it  is  neceliary  ^ 
to  confine  children  to  any  cmjfaut  courfe  of  food;  if  re- 
gard be  had  to  the  nature  of  their  fuftenance,  it  is  of 
litde  confequence  how  often  it  is  varied  in  form  or  fub- 
fiance* 

,  Various  opinions  prevail  with  reipefl  to  the  age  at 
which  the  child  fhould  be  weaned;  fome  recommend  fix 
months  as  the  critical  time,  others,  prefer  nine  or  twelve 
months,  and  many  inftances  occur  of  very  healthy  fami- 
lies of  children,  who  have  been  accuftomed  to  fuck  from 
eighteen  months  even  to  two  years*  The  befl:  diredtion 
that  can  be  given  on  this  fubjeft,  is  to  confult  the  flate  of 
health  of  the  mother  and  infant,  paying  particular  regard 
to  the  time  of  cutting  teeth;  it  is  cruel,  and  in  a  great  de« 
gree  dangerous  to  deprive  09  in£int  of  the  food  it  can  at^, 

tain 


CHILDREN*  ft4t 

lam  with  mod  eafe^  at  the  moment  it  is  ftruggling  under 
an  operation  painful  in  its  nature  and  frequently  alarm-* 
ing  in  its  confequences« 

Alike  doubtful  is  the  queflion  with  reipe£t  to  the 
manner  of  weaning;  many  contend  with  earneftnefs,  that 
die  bread  fhould  be  withdrawn  by  degrees^  nor  is  the 
contrary  condudt  without  advocates:  but  it  is  moft  pro- 
bable thateither  method  may  be  taken  with  fafety,  if  the 
child  is  in  perfefb  healthy  and  due  care  be  caken  to  keep 
it  fo,  by  adminiftering  fmall  quantities  of  rhubarb  and 
magnefiia^  for  a  few  days  after  the  child  has  been  weaned» 

The  next  material  article  in  the  management  of  in- 
fants, which  falls  under  our  confideration,  is  Cleanlinefs^ 

The  Ikins  of  fome  new-born  children  are  covered  with 
a  kind  of  flimy  matter,  for  the  removal  of  which  various 
methods  are  offered  i  but  Caflile  foap  and  warm  water, 
or  if  it  adheres  very  obftinately,  the  application  of  a  lit* 
de  loft  pomatum,  will  efFeftually  anfwer  the  purpofe . 
nor  is  it  of  any  conlequence  that  it  be  all  got  off  before 
die  child  is  dreJfled,  as  what  remains  on  the  Ikin  will  in  a, 
few  hours  harden  to  a  kind  of  dry  fcurf,  which  a  linen 
cloth  will  rub  off  with  eafc;  all  other  applications  on 
this  account  are  wholly  improper  and  unnecefTary. 

From  the  birth,  the  child  (hould  be  accuftomed  to 
a  daily  walhing,  from  head  to  foot,  in  cold  water;  this 
may  be  done  from  a  hafon,  without  immcrlion,  care  be- 
ing taken  not  to  omit  any  part  of  the  body,  and  to  wipe 
it  very  dry  with  afoft  linen  cloth:  by  the  conflant  ufe  of 
this  fpecies  of  cold  bath,  all  difagreeable  fmells  will  bo 
taken  off;  gall$,  excoriation  or  (tripping  of  the  ikin,  an4 

Vol,  I,  li  many 


^4^  C  tt  I  L  D  R  £  Nv 

many  difeafes  which  appear  on  the  furfacc  of  the  boctjr, 
will  be  prevented,  and  the  child  will  acquire  ftrengdi 
enough  to  refift  the  attacks  of  colds,  and  fuch  difordcrs 
as  are  in  general  produced  by  the  inclemencies  of  the  aii*, 
or  the  changes  of  the  feaibns. 

The  next  objefl:  of  the  modier's  care  fhould  be  a  fre- 
quent change  of  cloadis :  the  perfpiration  of  children 
being  more  copbus  than  that  of  grown  perlons,  x 
greater  degree  of  attention  is  necefiary  in  this  refpeA. 
But  2boyc  all  things,  the  evacuations  of  an  infant  (hould 
be  attended  to;  nor,  if  poffible  to  be  avoided,  fhould 
they  remiin  unchanged  a  fingle  minute;  rickets,  weak- 
nefs,  and  fwelled  jomts,  are  the  certain  efFefb  of  inat- 
tention in  this  momentous  article,  and  the  leafl  dangerous 
coniequences  are  galling,  fretfulnefs,  and  a  certain  de- 
gree of  feverifli  heat,  the  fymptoms  and  harbingers  of 
Worfe  complaints. 

Combing  the  heads  of  infants  fhould  by  no  means  be 
neglcfted ;  they  are  apt  to  acquire  a  kind  of  fcurf  be- 
neath the  hair,  which  flops  the  pores,  and  is  produftivc 
of  head-ach  and  weak  eyes;  to  which,  from  a  mere  omif^ 
fion  of  this  ufefiil  opep^don,  mod  young  children  ar^ 
iubjcft :  but  a  fine  comb  and  very  tender  hand  are  re- 
quired in  the  performance  of  this  talk.  For  the  cloaths 
cf  infents  few  general  direftions  can  be  given,  except  aa 
to  quantity :  great  care  fhould  be  taken  that  they  are  not 
kept  too  warm;  the  heat  of  a  child-bed  room,  the  addi«> 
lional  warmth  of  the  mother's  bed  when  the  child  is  ap- 
plied to  the  breaft,  and  the  fever  which  from  violent  agi*- 
cation,  afFefb  more  or  lefs  every  child  af|cr  the  birth^ 
make  fuch  a  caution  abfblutely  neceffiiry^ 

Aa 


CHILDREN.  243 

hn  fxeefiiTe  quantity  of  cloaths  is  on  all  accounts  ta 
be  avoided  1  but  a  flill  greater  degree  of  danger  attends 
die  commoa  manner  of  putting  them  on. 

For  many  centuries^  the  whole  apparel  of  infants  was 
iDchided  in  the  general  denomination  of  fwaddling,  (a^ 
corruption  offwathing  cloaths  ;)  and  they  were  fo  called 
becaufe  he  bodies  and  head^  of  die  wretched  litde  pati- 
ents were  encircled  in  repeated  and  redoubled  applications, 
of  rollers,  bandages,  and  binders. 

No  fboner  was  the  poor  litde  infant  born,  than  it  waa- 
abandoned  to  the  cruelty  of  midwives  and  nurfes,  the 
handmaids  of  female  vanity,  and  doomed  by  thefe  mer* 
dleis  operators  to  a  fpecies  of  torment,  fufficiently  fe- 
vere  at  the  moment  of  inflidion,  but  produflive  of  the 
mojQb  alarming  confequences  in  futures  fwathed,  iwad- 
dledt  plaited,  folded,  and  pinned,  it  was  reduced  to  the 
fiMxn  and  almoft  condition  of  an  Egyptian  mummy,  and 
exhibited  to  the  vifitors  as  a  fpeftacle  of  finery,  and  a 
proof  of  the  luperlati ve  fkill  •  of  the  attendants ;  its  ten* 
4er  cries  and  impatience  at  its  fetters  exciting  no  com* 
foffion,  nor  procuring  the  leaf^  hope  of  emancipation. 

This  abfurd  and  defbxidive  plan  of  fwadiing  infants  is 
however  gready,  we  wifh  we  ct)uld  fay  totally,  aboli/heds 
bodi  aigument  and  ridicule  have  been  fucceisfuUy  em- 
ployed againft  it  l^  many  able  and  humane  medical 
gentlemen. 

Natural  weakneis  or  difeafe  may  in  certain  cafes  occa« 
fion  deformity  j  but  very  &r  the  greater  part  of  the  in-* 
fiances  which  occur,  are  produced  by  mifmanagement 
in  clo^thing.  Nor  is  the  exterior  form  abne  facrificed 
ladiis  aUurd  cuftom  of  bracing  up  the  infant  body ;  the 
aonftitutiaa  iuSkn  equal  injury,    Refpiration,  the  cir« 

I  i  2  culadon 


t.    i 


444  CHILDREN. 

dilation  of  the  blood,  the  operations  of  the  lungs,  all  the 
various  motions  which  take  place  at  the  birth,  are  ob- 
ftrufted  and  impeded  in  their  firft  efforts  5  and  it  is  aa 
obfervation,  the  tnith  of  which  daily  experience  juftifies, 
that  deformity  of  body  is  feldom  accompanied  by  'health 
or  vigour. 

AH  the  cloaths  neceflary  for  an  infant  are,  a  light  cap 
on  its  head,  a  little  linen  Ihirt  next  its' body,  a  thin  flan- 
nel garment  without  plaits  or  folds,  and  a  loofe  gown  5  all 
thefe  Ihould  be  fattened  with  firings  inftead  of  pins,  a  fpe- 
cies  of  ofFenfive  weapon  too  often  applied  to  the  child's 
body  as  well  as  its  cloaths ;  and  if  a  cloth  to  receive  the 
evacuations  be  added,  the  child  will  ht  completely  drefled 
for  all  the  purpofes  of  neceflTary  warmth  and  comfort: 
whatever  elfe  is  admitted,  can  only  be  for  the  gratifica« 
tion  of  pride,  or  the  compliance  with  wretched  cuftoms. 

The  praftice  of  confining  growing  girls  in  ftrait  ftays, 
a  pradtice  produfti ve  of  all  the  evils  we  have  juft  enu- 
merated,  feems  now  to  be  happily  lofing  ground,  fron^ 
the  operations  of  fenfe,  and  the  convidion  of  woeful  ex- 
perience, that  unequal  fhoulders,  flat  breafls,  and  crooked 
backs,  are  the  natural  confequences  of  ftiffened  garments 
and  tight  lacing. 

If  the  mother  is  really  incapacitated  from  fuckling  her 
child,  great  care  fliould  be  taken  in  the  choice  of  a  nurfi, 
A  healthy  infant  at  her  breafl:  is  in  general  a  very  good 
diredtion.  The  ufual  defcription  ©f  good  milk  is,  that 
it  be  rather  thin  than  grofs,  of  a  colour  inclinable  to 
blue,  and  that  it  be  fweet  and  perfeftly  free  from  any 
pungent  or  faline  tafte  on  the  tongue. 

To  found  health,  a  good  conftitution,  and  a  body  pcr- 
feftly  free  from  every  kind  of  eruption,  and  a  breaft  wdl 

ftored 


^ 


k 


\ 


CHILDREN.  24f' 

Jftored  with  good  nnilk,  fliould  be  added  care,  cleanli- 
nefe,  and  a  great  Ihare  of  good-nature.  General  fond- 
nefe  for  children  is  no  certain  proof  of  a  good  nurfe; 
what  degree  of  affection  can  we  fuppofe  any  woman 
will  bear  to  the  child  of  another,  who  for  the  lake  of 
g^n  can  bring  herfelf  to  abandon  her  own  offspring,  or 
to  commit  a  robbery  on  both,  by  dividing  between  them 
the  noufilhment  allotted  by  Providence  to  fuftain  the 
fruit  of  her  own  womb  only:  if  this  circumflance  was 
cJuly  confidered,  it  might  probably  go  no  inconfiderablc 
way  towards  the  abolition  of  a  cuftom,  founded  princi* 
pally  on  idlenefs,  and  praftifed  even  to  inhumanity; 
•  If  the  child  is  nurfed  at  home,  the  mother  will  keep  a 
ftrift  watch  over  the  condudt  of  her  nurfe,  and  by  that 
means  difcover  her  vices  and  bad  cuftoms ;  of  the  for- 
mer, drunkennefs  is  the  moft  common,  becaufe  it  may 
10  general  be  indulged  without  much  rifque  of  difcovery. 
Mothers  arc  apt  to  permit  the  ufe  of  large  quantities  of 
ale,  and  other  fermented  liquors,  from  an  apprehenfion 
that  it'increafes  and  enriches  the  milk;  the  contrary  of 
which  is  undoubtedly  true.  Large  draughts  of  inflam- 
matory drink  fcrve  to  leflen  the  quantity  and  deftroy  its 
purityi  fpirituous  liquors  of  any  kind  have  ftill  worfc 
efFefts.  Fine  table  beer,  of  a  proper  age,  and  light 
broths  and  gruels,  are  the  moft  wholfome  fluids  that  a 
nurie  can  fwallow,  and  will  beft  anfwer  the  purpofe  of 
preparing  fweet  and  innocent  food  for  the  child.  Her 
food  ihould  as  nearly,  as  pofl[ible  be  fuch  as  ihe  has  been 
accuftomed  to,  nor  fhould  ihe  omit  to-takeher  uiual  ex-- 
crcife, — ^Inattention  to  thefc  rules  wiU  prove  truly  inju- 
ries to  the  infant. 

It 


34$.  CHILDREN. 

1 

It  is  by  no  means  unufvcal  with  nuHes,  if  the  child  !» 
reftleis>  to  quiet  it  with  ftupefying  drugs ;  theie  are  all  of 
-die  mod  pernicious  and  fatal  confequence;  as  well  ag 
ftrong  liquors^  another  Ipecie^of  poiibn»  too  often  admi- 
niftered  for  the  fame  purpofe,  the  operation  of  which>. 
tijiough  fomewhat  more  flow,  is  equally  lure  to  deprive 
tjie  unhappy  infent  of  the  benefit  of  a  good  conftitutioi^ 
if  not  of  life. 

Parents  fhould  lay  the  ftrifteft  injunftions  on  nurfes, 
never  to  pra(5life  on  the  healths  of  their  children,  or  to 
cpnceaJ  any  accident  they  ma,y  naeet  with,  or  any  dilbr- 
der  that  may  attack  thert,  in  confequence  of  negligence 
or  want  of  care.     The  adminiftration  of  medicine,  with- 

I 

out  confujting  the  parents,  fhould  be  abfolutely  prohi*- 
bited;  nine  times  in  ten  it  is  given  improperly  5  the  ef^ 
forts  of  nature  frequently  throw  out  in  eruptions  on  the 
ikin  fuch  bad  humours  as  threaten  infants  with  fever% 
and  other  violent  difeafes*  Nurfes  are  too  apt  to  treat 
fuch  eruptions  as  infedious  diforders,  and  ufe  means  to 
repel  them.  Attempts  of  this  kind,  which  go  in  dire6£ 
oppofition  to  Nature,  are  always  dangerous,  and  very  of- 
ten ^tal.  No  eruption  fhould  ever  be  haftily  ftoppcdj 
nor  even  checked,  till  the  nature  of  it  be  fully  afccr*- 
uined. 

*  The  trouble  occafioned  to  nurfes  by  frequent  ftools,  is. 
often  avoided  by  giving  the  infant  aftringcnt  medicines  r 
a^  moft  horrid  pradtice,  as  this  is  the  channel  by  which 
Nature  in  gaieral  works,  to  cleanfe  the  infaiit  body  from, 
inipurities,  and  to  couiiterad:  her  operations^  is  to  add:. 
Qoe  <Ufordar  more  to  thofc  fhe  meaiB  to  relieve.  If  the 
loofenefs  is  violent^  it  molt  probably  procoeds  from  acif 

2  dides. 


C  I!  I  Lt)  R  fi  N.  k0 

m 

4kies9  tiliich  a  finiU  quantity  of  rhubarb^  and  magne(a 
iXb2t,  or  a  gende  vomits  will  in  moil  cafes  infaliibly  cor^ 
tc&i  at  leail,  aftrii^nts  ihould  never  be  peroiiticed,  t^ 
the  others  have  been  firft  ufed  as  preparatives. 

But  one  rf  the  principal  faults  of  mercenary  nurfes  is, 
Aeir  denying  to  the  children  entrufted  to  th^ir  care,  ait 
snA  fxtrcifi. 

In  great  and  populous  cities,  and  In  large  manufac- 
turing towns,  where  die  inhabitants  are  crowded  toge- 
ther in  narrow  confined  Ibeets,  and  low,  dark,  and  dirty 
houfes,  it  is  no  wonder  that  the  children  Ihould  be  iickly. 
Grown  pcribns,  however  hardy  and  robuft,  are  generally 
affe£ted  by  fuch  fituations ;  but  their  children  feldom 
ftruggl^  through  infancy,  or  if  they  do,  are  common^ 
marked  by  deformity  or  weaknefs  j  but  it  is  the  duty  of 
iuch  parents  as  pan  afibrd  the  expence,  to  place  their 
children  in  a  dry,  healthy,  and  airy  habitation  j  and  to 
enforce,  by  the  flrongeft  injunftions,  and  frequent  vifits, 
the  carrying  them  out  in  the  open  air,  many  times  in  the 
day,  Nurfes  left  to  themfelves,  are  too  apt  to  indulge 
a  habit  of  indolence  in  this  eflential  article. 

Small  apartments  are  totally  unfit  for  nurferies,  nor 
ihould  fevcral  beds  be  fuffered  in  one  room ;  children 
are  relaxed  by  the  heat,  and  rendered  delicate  and  lia- 
ble to  colds ;  added  to  which,  the  air  of  confined  or 
crouded  rooms  is  unwholfome  in  itfelf,  and  difpofes  them 
more  readily  to  receive  the  infcftion  of  contagious  dif^ 
rafes.  Nor  is  the  pradice  lels  dangerous,  of  covering 
wp  the  infant  clofely  in  a  cradle,  depriving  it  of  the  com- 
fort  of  breathing,  and  compelling  it  to  fwallow  again,  in 
repeated  draughts  of  reipiration,  the  fame  air  it  has  emit- 
ted. 


54*  CHILDREN* 

tted.     If  fmall  beds  could  be  provided  for  children,  2& 
foon  they  are  weaned,  widi  bed-cloaths  fcparate  froirf- 
dioie  of  the  parent  or  nurfe,  it  might  produce  very  happy 
cffeds. 

If  children  are  laid  to  fleep  with  all  their  cloaths  on, 
great  care  fhould  be  taken  not  to  expofe  them  to  th© 
open  air  immediately  on  their  being  taken  out  of  the 
cradle;  the  fafer  way  Is  to  undrefs  them  in  a  great  mea- 
forc,  before  they  are  put  to  reft,  and  to  reftore  their 
cloaths  as  foon  as  they  awake :  no  cuftom  can  be  more 
abfurdj  than  that  of  heaping  additional  cloathing  on 
them  in  the  cradle,  where  they  have  naturally  fufEcient 
perfpiration,  to  induce  an  extraordinary  degree  of  it, 
■which  is  violently  checked  the  moment  they  awake,  t<» 
the  extreme  hazard  of  their  lives. 

Nor  fhould  children,  as  they  grow  tip,  be  confined  ta 
warm  rooms;  or  kept  wholly  within  doors;  at  a  certain 
age  they  are  fent  to  public  fchools,  and  other  places  of 
education,  where  the  treatment  is  fo  different,  tliat,  like 
exotics,  they  fhrink  at  the  expofure,  and  never  attain 
any  confiderable  degree  of  vigour  or  flrength.  And  the 
like  inconvenience  arifes  from  bringing  children,  who 
have  been  accuftomed  to  wholfome  country  air,  to 
fchools  in  confined  towns,  where  their  improvement  in 
learning  is  frequendy  impeded  by  the  lofs  of  health,  at 
a  time,  too,  when  the  application  of  every  hour  is  of 
ineflimable  value. 

To  prolong  and  render  comfortable  the  life  of  man, 
exercife  is  indifpenfably  neceffai-y ;  the  health,  growth, 
hay,  even  the  very  exiftence  of  the  infant,  depend  on  it. 

The  nature  of  the  exercife  ought  to  be  adapted  to  th?. 
age  of  the  child^  and  to  b^  increafed  by  degrees,  as '  it 

gains 


C  H  I  L  D  F,  E  N,  54^ 

gains  ftrength  of  body ;  but  it  muft,  in  many  cafesj  b« 
regulated  by  the  condition  of  the  parents.  Rocking  in 
the  cradle  has  been  the  praftice  of  centuries,  and  mode-» 
rately  ufcd  may  not  be  an  improper  kind  of  exercife  $ 
but  the  mother's  or  nurfe's  arms  is  the  moft  eafy  and 
natural  j  being  carried  from  place  to  place,  a  variety  of 
obje&s  offer,  which  amufe  its  fancy,  and,  under  the  in- 
formation which  it  receives  from  its  conduftor,  dircft 
its  opening  ideas.  Where  aftual  poverty  prevents  this 
kind  of  exercife,  frequent  rubbing  of  the  back  and  loins 
with  a  warm  hand  will  be  of  fingular  ufe.  Even  a  iwing^ 
not  high  enough  to  fufpcnd  the  infant,  is  preferable  to 
die  uilial  method  of  committing  one  child  to  the  care 
of  another ;  but  both  ihould  in  every  poffible  cafe  be 
avoided :  and  if  mothers  would  dedicate  more  of  theii^ 
time  to  their  children,  at  this  period  of  their  lives,  they 
would  be  repaid  by  the  forward  growth  and  ftrength  of 
their  offspring,  who  would  be  more  ijuickly  in  a  capa- 
city to  take  care  of  themfelves. 

It  is  a  common,  but  very  miftaken  notion,  that  chil- 
dren acqijire  crooked  legs  and  rickety  habits,  from  be- 
ing indulged  too  early  in  the  ufe  of  their  feet  *,  but  as 
exercife  contributes  to  the  ftrength  of  the  limbs,  thefe 
inBrmides  are  much  more  probably  derived  from  their 
being  kept  too  long  in  a  fitting  or  lying  pofture :  if  their 
limbs  are  weak,  the  weight  of  their  bodies  is  propor- 
tionable, and  the  moment  they  have  fkill  to  keep  them- 
felves ^eft,  they  may  very  fafely  be  fuffered  to  ufe  their 
legs.  Leading  ftrings  ought  never  to  be  permitted ; 
children  who  are  accuftomed  to  them  are  apt  to  depend 
entirely  on  this  fuptx)rt,  by  which  means  their  whole 
weight  i^  thrown  forward,  and  the  lungs,  ^ftomach,  and 

Yqu  U  K  k  bowels^ 


250  CHILDREN. 

bowck,  fuffcr  an  unnatural  and  dangerous  comprcflion. 
Sedentary  emplpyments  of  apy  kind,  whether  of  ftudy  or 
labour,  are  extremely  prejudicial  in  childhood  and  early 
youth :  when  the  calls  to  either  are  not  to  be  difpenfod 
with,  it  will  be  of  great  importance  to  divide  the  hours 
of  application  and  receis  in  fuch  a  manner,  as  to  give 
frequent  opportunities  for  exercifc,  i»1iich  fhould  always 
be  taken  in  the  open  air  if  poffible.  And  thefe  precau- 
tions arc  more  particularly  neceflary  for  female  children, 
who  will  feel  the  want  of  early  air  and  exercife,  not  only 
at  a  certain  critical  period  of  life,  but  in  the  ftill  more 
dangerous  circumftance  of  child-bearing  5  an  event  at- 
tended with  a  degree  of  hazard  to  all,  but  moft  to  thofe 
whofe  parents  or  friends  have  negleftcd  to  improve  their 
ftock  of  health  and  vigour  ia  the  precious  moments  of 
which  we  now  fpealo 

Having  laid  down  a  few  neceflary  and  fundamental 
rules,  for  the  management  of  infants  in  health,  we  ihall 
now  proceed  to  mention  certain  accidental  circumftance^ 
which  fometimes  affe6t  children  at  the  birth,  and  which 
yet  are  not  to  be  clafled  under  the  head  ofdtfeafesi  theic 
the  reader  will  find  properly  digefted  under  their  re- 
fpeftive  titles. 

On  the  examination  and  inipe£kion  of  a  new-born  in- 
fant, inquiry  is  generally  made  if  it  be  tongue-tied  ^  this 
fometimes,  though  very  rarely,  happens.  A  thin  flcin  or 
membrane  under,  and  extending  towards  the  narrow  part 
of  the  tongue,  prevents  the  child  from  fucking,  and  may 
be  remedied  by  a  very  gentle  fnip  with  a  pair  of  fine 
fciflars :  but  this  circumftance  fo  icldom  occurs,  that 
when  the  child  exhibits  an  inability  to  fuck,  the  im- 
pediment will  much  more  commonly  be  found  in  over 


(Children.  i^^ 

^llWcafts,  or  fore  nipples  of  the  mother,  or  in  fwel- 
ling  of  the  glands,  or  weak  jaws  in  die,  infant.  The 
operatioh  of  cutting  Ihould,  therefore,  never  be  per- 
formed without  attending  to  thefe  other  poffiblc  grounds 
of  the  complaint. 

It  is  laid,  that  there  have  been  inftanccs  of  children 
born  with  their  tongues  inverted  or  turned  5  or  that  the 
fame  accident  has  happened  from  fucking :  tickling  the ' 
child's  throat,  to  excite  vomiting,  has  been  recom- 
mended in  this  cafe,  as  the  only  means  to  prevent  im« 
mediate  fufFocation* 

The  breafts  of  infants  are  generally  found  to  contain 
a  fmall  quantity  of  milky  fluid  i  but  this  fliould  by  no 
means  be  drawn  or  prefled  out :  warm  milk  and  water, 
or  a  little  fweet  oil  warmed,  and  gently  rubbed  in,  will, 
in  moft  cafes,  remove  it  -,  or  if  it  fliould  retnain  beyond 
a  day  or  two,  a  poultice  of  bread  and  milk  is  an  effec- 
tual remedy.  A  fmall  plafter  of  diachylon  is  in  fome 
inftances  prefcribed,  when  the  breaft  grows  hard ;  but 
the  nurfe  Ihould  be  abfolutely  reftrained  from  ufmg  her 
finger  and  thumb,  a  pra&ice  both  cruel  and  dan* 
gerous. 

If  too  much  of  the  chord,  or  navel-ftring,  is  lieft  to 
the  body  of  the  child,  it  is  apt  to  occafion  inflamma- 
tion j  nay,  in  fome  cafes,  even  mortification^  The  befl: 
way  of  managing  it  is,  to  make  a  hole  in  a  piece  .of  fine 
linen,  many  times  doubled,  and  paflling  the  end  of  the 
navel-ftring  through  the  hole,  to  fold  the  cloth  feveral 
times,  till  it  gets  near  the  belly  j  to  which  it  fliould  be 
bound  by  a  fmooth  roller,  but  not  drawn  too  flrait. 
The  navel-fl^ring  commonly  feparates,  and  falls  ofi^  in 
four  or  five  days  s  when  that  happens,  which  fliould  be 

K  k  a  care- 


i;i  CHILDREN. 

carefully  attended  to,  a  bit  of  fmged  rag  may  be  laicj 
^  over  the  navel  5  and  if  any  rawnefs  or  forcnefi  fliould 
appear  round  it,  or  the  (kin  fhould  be  fretted  or  galled> 
a  raifin  fplit  and  lloncd  may  be  applied,  and  the  part 
wafhed  with  a  little  alum- water,  or  a  weak  folution  of 
fiigar  of  leadi  and  a  plaftcr  of  cerate  applied,  to  protcdt 
it  from  rubbing. 

When  the  navel  s^pears  to  protrude,  or  pulh  out,  it 
is  frequently  miftaken  for  a  rupture ;  but  as  the  latter  is 
by  no  means  a  common  cafe,  all  violent  attempts  to 
reduce  it  fhould  be  carefijjly  avoided :  nor  fliould  they 
be  made,  but  with  infinite  caution,  in  infant  fubjefts, 
even  in  cafes  of  aftual  ruptures  in  the  groin.  The 
body  may  be  kept  open,  and  the  hand  gently  applied  to 
the  part,  when  the  child  makes  any  extraordinary  exer* 
tion,  either  by  crying  or  otherwife.  And  as  this  com- 
plaint is  not  of  a  dangerous  nature,  a  cure  will  generally 
be  efFefted  without  the  application  of  bandages  or 
trufles,  which  ought  always  to  be  ufed  by  very  fkilfrd 
hands. 

If  the  retention  of  the  infant's  urine  fliould  afford  any 
reafon  to  fufpeft  that  the  paffage  from  the  bladder  is  ob- 
ftmfted  by  a  flimy  matter,  which  fometimcs  oppofes 
the  paffage  of  the  water,  a  warm  bath  of  milk  and  wa- 
ter, or  a  litdc  oil  gently  rubbed  on  the  belly,  will,  in 
moft  cafes,  remove  the  complaint ;  but  if  thefe  applica- 
tions prove  incffedual,  it  will  be  neceflary  to  coniuk 
Ipme  perfon  of  judgement,  as  it  may  then  be  appre- 
hended, that  the  difficulty  arifes  rather  from  Ibme  defeftj 
'"dian  from  accident  j  efpecially  in  female  infants,  where 
the  caufc  is  not  always  to  be  found  in  the  pafiage  front 

I  the 


C  H  I  L  D  R  E  N.  t$S 

&e  bladder^  but  in  a  kind  of  thin  fkin,  which  clofes  its 
orifice  or  mouth ;  and  the  fame  appearance  fometimes 
prefents  itfelf  at  the  gut^  and  prevents^  in  like  manner^ 
evacuation  by  ftool :  it  is  very  proper,  therefore,  that 
the  infant's  body  fhould  be  repeatedly  and  carefully  exa- 
mined, and  that  attention  be  paid  to  the  regularity  aad 
freedom  of  its  evacuations. 

The  nofes  of  infants  are  Ibmedmes  flopped  up  by  grofs 
onatter,  which,  gathering  in  the  noflrils,  occailons  diffi« 
culty  in  fucking,  and  even  obfb-udti  their  breathing :  4 
litde  oil  or  butter  applied  to  the  nofe  by  a  warm  finger^ 
will  fcarce  ever  fail  to  remove  this  complaint  -,  but  fhould 
it  refufe  to  yield  to  thefe  common  and  gende  prefcrip* 
tions,  two  graixis  of  white  vitriol  may  be  diflblved  in 
about  half  an  ounce  of  nnarjoram  water^  and  applied  t^ 
the  noflrils  with  a  fine  rag. 

Running  ears,  fore  or  weak  eyes,  and  excoriations, 
galls,  or  ibipping  of  the  fkin,  may  in  general  be  attri- 
buted^ to  the  fame  caufes ;  the  former  and  latter  are  al« 
ma&  confbntly  the  effe&s  of  want  of  care  and  cleanli- 
nefs,  and  may  bexemoved  by  a  careful  attention  to  thefe 
tflential  articles.  In  <he  former  cafe,  a  little  cerate 
plaHer  maybe  applied;  or  if  extremely  obflinate,  a  very 
weak  fblution  of  fugar  of  lead  may  be  lafed,  to  yiraih 
the  part.  In  the  latter  caie,  the  arm-pits,  groin,  or 
other  galled  parts,  may  be  powdered  with  fine  tutty,  or 
even  common  hair  powder ;  but  the  mofl  efFedual  re*;- 
medy  is  FuUer's-earth  diiTolved  in  warm  water,  an4 
when  made  quite  &>&  and  fmooth,  applied  with  th^ 
£oger. 

Sole  eyes  are  in  gf  neral  occafioned  by  the  negleft  of 
WsSbvig  the  infant's  head  with  water  from  its  birth. 

Where 


#  • 


^j4  C  HI  L  £)  R  fi  N. 

Where  that  method  is  praftifed,  this  complaint  feldonni 
occurs,  though  it  may  fometimes  happen,  by  expofing 
it  foon  after  the  birth  to  a  very  ftrong  light,  or  placing 
it  too  near  the  fire.  In  both  cafes,  the  moft  fimplc  ap- 
plicatjons  arc  the  fafeft ;  and  frequent  waihing  with  millc 
and  water,  .or  rofe-water,  will  in  general  remove  all  the 
difagf eeable  cfFefts  of  this  diforder. 

The  meconium  is  fo  little  confidered  as  a  difeale,  that 
it  has  not  yet  acquired  any  Englifh  name  j  it  is  the  ex- 
crement contained  in  the  ftomach  and  guts  of  a  new-* 
born  infant  j  for  which  the  mother's  milk  has  beeil  long 
confidered  as  the  moft  efficacious  medicine,  and  fcarce 
ever  fails  to  promote  the  difcharge  of  it.  If  the  mother 
does  not  fuckle,  or  the  breaft  is  not  ready  to  receive  it, 
|i  little  magnefia,  or  even  moift  lugar  diflblved  in  warm 
water,  will  anfwer  the  purpofe. 

The  red-gum  requires  little  more  attention,  than  to 
keep  the  body  open ;  which  may  be  done  by  fmall  dofcs 
of  rhubiarb  powc^red,  and  magnefia,  mixed  in  warm 
water.  The  yellow-gumy  which  is,  indeed,  a  ipecies  of 
jaundice,  is  attended  with  fbme  degree  of  danger  j  but 
the  fame  medicine  may  be  adminiftered :  and  in  many 
cafes  a  change  of  milk  is  required. 

The  fymptbms  q{  acidities  in  the  ftomach  of  an  infant 
art  at  firft  loathings  and  four  bclchings,  a  pale  complec- 
tion,  with  fi-equently  a  yellow  or  green  caft,  wind,  red 
Ipecks  or  fpots  in  the  forehead,  cheeks,  or  neck,  a  thick 
breath,  attended  with  a  fiioring  noife,  and  not  uncom- 
monly a  fharp  and  troubleibmc  cough.  Gripings,  purg- 
ings,  and  green  and  four-fmcUing  ftools,  arc  the  furc 
figns  of  acidities  in  the  bowels.    In  both  cafes,  the  beft 

'  mcdi- 


w 


« 

CHILDREN.  %$s 

medicine  known  is  magnefiaj  which  may  be  given  either 
in  its  common  food,  or  in  the  following  prepared' mix** 
ture: 

Six  grains  of  powdered  rhubarb,  thirty  grains  of  mag^  *• 
nefia;.  fimple  mint- water,  half  an  ounce;  fyrupoffugar 
(or  fqgar  diffolved  in  as  much  boiling  water  as  will  re- 
duce it  to  the  confiftency  of  fyrup)  half  an  ouncCi  com« 
ption  water,  an  ounce. 

Somewhat  more  than  the  quantity  of  a  tea-fpoonful 
pnay  be  adminiftered  every  three  or  four  hours. 

But  in  cafe  the  body  fhpuld  be  already  fufficiendf 
open,  a  like  quantity  of  prepared  powder  of  crabs  cyei^ 
may  be  lubftituted  for  the  magnefia;.  though  the  latter 
may,  in  moft  occafions,  be  ufcd  with  fafcty  and  itic- 
ccfs, 

Jf  the  lame  complaints  occur  after  the  child  is  weaned,  ' 
in  inftifion  of  about  fifteen  grains  of  powdered  rhubarb^ 
and  one  grain  of  fait  of  tartar,  in  any  fimple  water,  pour- 
ed carefully  ofi^,  after  it  has  flood  ne^r  the  fire  a  few 
hours,  may  be  given  in  the  quantity  of  two  fmall  tea- 
fpoonful$  at  a  time^  and  repeated  twice  or  thrice  in  the 
twenty-four  hours.  You  may  add  fugar  to  make  it 
palatable. 

If  the  gripes  are  fevere,  and  the  mixture  above  re- 
commended has  not  procured  ftools,  a  fmall  quantity  of 
peppermint  water,  diluted  with  common  water  warm, 
may  be  given,  and  a  flannel  dipped  in  brandy,  or  other 
fpirit,  applied  to  the  belly  ,•  and  a  glifter  of  a  table- 
fpoonful  of  Florence  oil,  die  like  quantity  of  coarfefl:  fu- 
gar, and  from  two  to  four  ounces  of  new  milk,  or  the 
decoftion  of  linfeed,  Ihould  be  immediately  adminifter- 
^.    Proper  care  muft  be  taken,  that  the  heat  of  the 

injec-- 


i5^  CHILDREN. 

injeftion  do  not  much  exceed  diat  of  milk  from  thd 
cow. 

For  vomitings  occafioned  alfo  by  acidities,  no  medi* 
fcine  is  more  effeftual  than  the  magnefia  and  rhubarb 
mixture  ;  but  if  the  continuance  of  the  complaint  has  fo 
weakened  the  ftomach,  that  it  can  neither  retain  food  or 
medicine,  without  loathings  or  aftual  vomitings,  Grom 
two  to  five  grains  of  ipecacuanha,  according  to  the  age 
of  the  infant,  may  be  very  fuccelsfuUy  given ;  it  fhould 
be  finely  powdered,  and  mixed  with  fugar  and  water, 
6r  the  common  fyrup,  and  its  operation  is  mild  and 
iafe. 

If  the  vomiting  is  apprehended  to  proceed  from  an 
irritation  of  the  nerves  of  the  ftomach,  a  drop  or  two  of 
liquid  laudanum  may  be  given  in  a  table- (poonful  of  the 
faline  draught,  which  may  be  compofcd  of 

Thirty  grains  of  fait  of  wormwood  or  tartar,  diflblved 
in  half  an  ounce  of  frefh  lemon-juice  j  half  an  ounce  of 
common  fyrup  of  fugar  j  one  ounce  of  fimplc  pepper- 
mint water,  and  one  ounce  of  common*  water. 

And  the  like  quantity  may  be  repeated  every  two^ 
four,  or  fix  hours,  according  to  the  violence  of  the  dif- 
eafe,  leflcning,  however,  the  quaintity  of  die  laudanum 
in  the  repetition. 

If  the  diforder  is  obftinate,  the  following  plafteTji 
from  the  fize  of  a  crown-piece,  in  proportion  to  the  age 
of  the  padent,  fpread  on  foft  leather,  and  applied  to  the 
pit  of  the  ftomach,  may  be  ufed  with  great  probability 
of  fuccefs. 

Take  gum  labdanum,  or  pkfterof  the  gums,  of  either 
thrcfe  ounces  5   camphorated  oil,  half  an  ounce  j  black 

pepper^ 


Children.  257 

pepper,  or  Indian  pepper,  three  drams  j  effential  oil*  of 
miat  or  nnace,  two  fcrupks. 

Melt  the  Ingredients  in  a  fmall  earthen  pipkin  or  pot, 
ftirring  in  the  powdered  pepper  as  it  diflblves,  and  ad- 
ding ^he  oil  of  mint  or  mace  in  the  laft  ftirring. 

When  the  fymptoms  abate,  it  may  be  proper  to 
ftrengthen  the  ftomach  by  the  following  medicine : 

Infufe  oneidram  of  Peruvian  bark,  fix  grains  of  rhu- 
barb,  and  a  fmall  quantity  of  orange  peel,  in  one  ounce 
of  fimple  cinnamon  wai^r,  and  one  otince  of  comitiQn 
water. 

And  a^  it  has  ftoixi  three  hours,  ftram  it  carefully 
^flF,  and  give  the  quantity  of  a  te^-ipooi^l  mofning 
.and  evening. 

But  aftef  all,  vomiting  rhty  be  occafionfed  by  die 
quantity  or  quality  of  the  infant's  jfood.  The  matter 
thrown  up  will,  in  a  great  nneafure,  afcertain  the  former 
caufe,  and  the  cure  is  too  obvious  to  need  pointing  out. 
In  the  latter  a  change  is  neceflary,  even  of  the  breaft 
milk^  if  that  Ihovld  be  found  too  grols  or  heavy)  at  leaft 
the  mother  or  nurfe  ihould  have  recourfe  to  a  moK 
fpare  diet,  and  diluted  liquors,  in  order  to  render  her 
milkle^  thickand  glutinous.— See  ApHtHiBorTHRus^, 
Convulsions,  Tebthikg,  ice. 


T0L.I.  LI  CHIN- 


(    ^58    ) 


CHIN -CO  UGH.— See  Hooping-Couch. 


CHIP  S. — See  Oranges* 


CINNAMON. 

This  is  a  very  elegant  and  ufeful  aromatic^  highly 
gratefiil  both  to  the  palate  and  ftomach,  which  it  greatly 
ftrengthens  as  well  as  the  bowels,  and  proves  of  nnuch 
fervice  in  feveral  kinds  of  fluxes  and  immoderate  dif- 
charges.  The  bark  of  Caflia  is  frequently  fold  for  cin* 
namon,  but  is  cafily  diftinguifhable  by  its  breaking 
fmooth,  while  cinnamon  always  fplinters;  and  by  a 
ilimy  kind  of  taftc,  without  any  thing  of  the  roughne& 
of  the  true  cinnamon. 

The  Oil  of  Cinnamon  is  of  a  nature  fo  extremely  hot, 
that  a  drop  of  the  genume  fort  let  fall  upon  the  tongue, 
undiluted,  will  produce  an  a6lual  fear :  in  debilities  of 
the  nervous  fyflem,  and  low  languid  cafes,  it  is  one  of 
the  moft  immediate  cordials  and  reftoratives.  The  dcife 
is  three  or  four  drops  on  a  knob  of  fugar,  and  diffolvcd 
in  a  glafs  of  fmall  wine,  or  in  fome  of  the  fimple  diftilled 
waters. 

Simple  Cinnamon  Water.  Take  of  cinnamon  one 
pound  i  water  as  much  as  will  prevent  burning  j  draw 
off  one  gallon. 

Care  muft  be  taken  in  the  choice  of  your  cinnamon, 
to  avoid  the  impofition  of  Caflia.  This  is  a  very  grate- 
ful watcr^  and  poficfles  the  virtues  of  the  cinnamon  in 

a  high 


C    I    T    R    O    N.  1S9 

a  high  degree  j  but  does  not  keep  fa  well  as  might  be 
wiflied. 

Spirituous  Cinkamon  Water.  Take  of  cinnamon 
one  pound,  proof  fpirit  one  gallon ;  as  much  water  as 
will  prevent  burning ;  and  draw  off  one  gallon  by  diftil- 
lation. 

This  is  a  very  agreeable  and  ufeful  cordial ;  but  not 
fo  ftrong  of  the  cinnamon  as  might  be  cxpefted :  it  has, 
therefore,  been  propofed  to  make  this  water  by  mixing  the 
fimple  cinnamon,  with  ibmewhat  lefs  than  an  equal  quan* 
tity  of  reftified  fpirit.  Onlhaking  them  together,  the  liquor 
lofes  it  milky  hue,  but  ibon  becomes  clear  and  more  ele* 
gant  than  the  water  diftilled  as  above :  it  is  equal!  v 
ftrong  of  the  cinnamon,  and  free  from  the  naufeous  fcent 
ufual  with  common  proof  fpirits. 


CITRON. 

This  fruit  has  much  the  fame  qiialitics  with  the  le- 
mon, from  which  it  is  diftinguilhcd  by  its  firmnefs, 
greater  bulk,  brifker  fmcU^r  and  higher  colour.  We 
have  cffences,  (fee  that  article)  oils,  and  waters  from 
the  citron. 

To  preferve  Citrons.  Take  the  largeft  Malaga  ci-- 
trons,  cut  them  into  quarters,  fcrape  the  rind  a  little, 
but  not  all  the  yellow  off  j  take  out  all  the  meat,  and 
lay  the  rind  in  water  all  night  j  then  boil  them  till  they 
are  very  tender,  and  lay  them  in  water  again  all  night  5 
then  lay  them  in  a  fieve  to  drain  very  well  5  and,  to  two 
pounds  of  citrons,  put  three  pounds  of  fine  fugar,  and 
three  pints  of  water  j   make  the  water  and  fugar  juft 

L  1  %  warm. 


i«o  C    I    T    R    O    N^ 

warmij  put  in  die  citipns,  let  it  boll  £br  balf  an  hour> 
then  fct  it  by  till  the  next  day ;  bpil  it  again  till  it  ifi  very 
dear,  and  add  a  pound  more  of  fugar ;  jufl:  wet  it  with 
water,  making  it  boil  brifkly  till  it  is  melted;  then 
put  in  the  juice  of  three  lennons,  and  put  it  into  large 
pots. 

CiTRov  Maxmaladd.  Let  the  citrons  be  boiled 
very  tender,  cut  off  all  fhe  yellow  rind,  ftamp  the  white 
▼ery  well  in  a  wooden  bowl,  fhred  the  rind,  and  to  two 
pounds  of  the  pulp  and  rind,  take  three  pouads  of  fu<- 
gar,  and  a  pint  of  water  i  nnake  the(e  boil,  and  then  put 
in  the  citrons ;  tDskt  it  boil  brifkly  till  it  becomes  clear, 
then  add  a  pint  ^f  pippin  jelly,  boil  it  till  it  jellies  yerf 
well ;  add  thejuiceof  a  eouple  of  lemons.  Put  it  in  pots 
or  glaffes. 

Citron  Water,  To  a  gallon  of  French  brandy,  or 
clear  fpirit,  put  four  ounces  of  citrons,  lemons,  or  orange 
flowers,  and  two  pounds  of  white  fugar-ear.dyfin^y  pow- 
dered i  add  to  thcfe  fix  ounces  of  citron  or  lemon  peels, 
and  let  them  ftecp  in  the  Ipirits  till  the  liquor  is  tinc- 
tured ftrong  enough,  then  ftrain  it  dirough  a  ficve.  You 
may  add  a  quarter  of  a  dram  of  mufk  to  the  quantity  of 
three  gallons  of  liquor. 

Another  way.  Take  of  good  proof  Ipirits  fix  quarts^ 
water  three  quarts,  the  peel  of  fifteen  lemons,  firefh  figs 
feven  pounds  i  in&fe  them  a  night,  and  diftill.  Sweeten 
widi  a  pound  and  a  quarter  of  refined  loaf-fiagar. 

This  is  the  citron  water  ufualiy  fold  in  the  <hops  j  and 
hardly  djftinguilhable  in  its  tafte,  when  well  managed, 
from  the  former,  which  is  the  genuine. 

f  CLY3r 


' 


(    a6i    ) 

CLYSTERS. 

This  cjafs  of  medicines  is  of  more  importance  than  k 
generally  im^igined.  Clyfters  fcrve  not  only  to  evacuate 
the  contents  of  the  belly,  but  alfo  to  convey  very  active 
mcdicxQes  into  the  fyftcni,  Opiun^,  for  example,  may 
be  adminiftered  in  thi3  way,  when  it  will  not  fit  upon 
the  ftomach,  and  alfo  in  larger  dofes,  than  at  any  tipie 
it  can  be  tak^n  by  the  mouth*  The  Peruvian  bark 
BUif  likewife  be,  with  good  effeft,  adminiftered  in 
form  of  a  cly fterj^  tp  perfpos  who  aannpt  take  it  by  the 
4nouth. 

Some  fiibftances  alfp,  ^s  the  fmoke  of  tobacco^  may 
be  thrown  into  the  bowels  in  this  way,  which  cannot  by 

my  other  nac^ns  whatever.   This  m^y  be  eafily  efefted 
by  means  of  a  pair  of  hand  bellows^  with  an  apparatus 

fitted  to  them  fpr  tlaat  purpofe. 

A  finlple  clyfter  can  feldom  do  hurt,  and  there  ar? 
many  caies,  where  it  m^y  do  much  gpod.  A  clyfter 
fvcn  of  w»rm  water,  by  ferviag  as  a  fomentation  to  the 
parts,  may  be  of  confidcrijblc  fcryice  in  inflaipjiuttignj 
pf  die  bidder,  and  the  lower  inteftines,  &c. 

Nor  is  the  ufc  of  clyfters  canfiaed  tp  medicines ;  ali- 
fncnt  n)iy  aliip  be  conveyed  in  this  way.  Perfon^  unable 
JO  fwaUpv  bav^  bwn>  fpr  %  confi4cr*ble.  time,  fijp- 
ported  by  clyfter^. 

I.  Emollient  Clyster,     Tal;i5  of  Unfeed  te^,  and 
oew  oii)k>  ^9f  h  fiK  oyncQS.     Mi^  th^, 
.    If  fifty  or  fi«ty  drop^  of  l^u^i^UQi  be  added  to  this, 
it  will  fupply  the  placr  9f  ^Aa»^w^  Qiffiiu 


i62  CLYSTERS. 

2.  Laxative  Clyster.  Take  of  milk  and  water, 
each  fix  ounces ;  fweet  oil,  or  frefli  butter,  and  brown 
fugar>  each  two  ounces.     Mix  them. 

If  an  ounce  of  Glauber's  falts,  or  two  table- fpoonfu Is 
of  common  fait  be  added  to  this,  it  will  be  the  Purging 
Clyjier. 

3.  Carminative  Clyster.  Take  of  camomile 
flowers,  an  ounce  j  anifeed,  half  an  ounce.  Boil  in  a  pint 
and  a  half  of  water  to  one  pint. 

In  hyfteric  and  hypochondriac  complaints,  this  may 
be  adminiftered  infteadof  the  Foetid  Clyjier^  the  fmcU  of 
which  is  fo  difagreeable  to  moft  patients. 

4.  Oily  Clyster.  Take  four  ounces  of  the  infufioii 
of  camomile  flowers ;  add  an  equal  quantity  of  Florence 
oil. 

This  clyfter  is  beneficial  in  bringing  ofi^  the  fmall 
wofms  lodged  in  the  lower  parts  of  the  alimentary  ca- 
nal. When  given  to  children  the  quantity  mufl:  bri  pro- 
portionably  Icflened. 

5.  Starch  Clyster.  Take  jelly  of  ftarch,  four 
ounces ;  linfeed  oil,  half  an  ounce.  Melt  the  jelly  over 
a  gende  fire,  and  then  mix  in  the  oil. 

In  the  dy fernery  or  bloody  flux,  this  clyfter  may  be 
adminiftered  after  every  loofe  ftnol,  to  heal  the  ukerated 
inteftines,  and  blunt  the  fharpnefs  of  corroding  hu- 
mours. Forty  or  fifty  drops  of  laudanum  may  be  occa- 
fionally  added  j  in  which  cafe  it  will  generally  lupply  the 
place  of  the  JJfringent  Clyjfer. 

Turpentine  Clyster.  Take  of  common  decoc- 
tion, ten  ounces ;  Venice  turpentine,  diflblved  with  the 
yolk  of  an  egg,  half  an  ounce ;  Florence  oil,  one  ounce. 

Mix  them.' 

This 


CLEAR-STARCHING.  263 

This  diuretic  clyfter  is  proper  in  obftruftions  of  the 
urinary  paffages,  and  in  cholicky  complaints,  proceed- 
ing from  gravel. 

Vinegar  Clyster.  This  clyfter  is  made  by  mixing 
th^ec  evinces  of  vinegar  with  five  of  water-gruel. 

It  anfwers  all  the  purpofes  of  a  common  clyfter,  with 
the  peculiar  advantage  of  being  proper  either  in  inflam- 
matory or  putrid  diforders  5  efpecially  in  the  latter. 

It  is  unneceffary  to  give  more  examples  of  this  clafe 
of  medicines,  as  ingredients  adapted  to  any  particular 
intention,  may  occafionally  be  added  to  one  or  other  of 
the  above  forms. 


CLEAR-STARCHING. 

This  we  conceive  to  be  an  article  of  {o  much  ufe  in 
female  oeconomy,  as  to  deferve  very  particular  atten- 
tion. In  wajhing  Muslins,  you  are  to  fold  every  arti- 
cle double,  putting  the  fclvedges  together,  then  the  ends 
together,  and  wafli  it  the  way  the  felvedge  goes, 
to  prevent  the  fraying ;  next  take  very  clear  water,  but 
not  too  hot,  for  that  makes  them  yellow,  and  ftrain  the 
water  through  a  clean  cloth  into  a  pan ;  then  take  of  the 
beft  foap  a  quantity  proportioned  to  your  wafli,  put  it 
upon  a  clean  ftick,  beat  up  your  lather ;  but  let  it  not 
be  with  a  whifk,  for  that  will  make  the  water  yellow, 
and  alfo  leave  fplinters,  which  will  tear  the  muflin. 

After  the  lather  is  beat,  put  in  your  fouleft  muflins,  one 
by  one,  fo  let  them  ftand  to  foak  out  the  dirt  j  then  wafh 
them  one  by  one,  to  prevent  tearing ;  whilft  the  water 
is  warm  Iqueeze  them  very  hard  between  both  hands, 

for 


«64        CLEAR. Starching: 

ibr  fear  of  leaving  the  dirty  fuds  in  them,  and  as  you 
wafh  them  out,  (hake  them  open  into  an  earthen  difh  ^ 
let  your  fecpnd  iaiiier  be  beat  up  as  your  firft,  only  Wc 
the  water  be  hotter,  but  not  fcakling  hot ',  but  wafh 
whilft  they  are  warm,  and  fqueeze  them  as  before :  as 
Ito  your  third  lather,  let  your  water  be  fcalding  hot,  but 
not  boiling,  for  that  makes  the  water  yellow ;  then  put 
fome  powder  bhie  into  ft  cup,  with  a  little  more  water 
'  than  will  juft  wet  itf  ihake  the  cup  about,  afterwards 
pour  it  into  the  fcalding  water,  and  fiir  it  about  till  ]rou 
perceive  it  blue  enough ;  then  take  feap,  beat  up  your 
"lather  as  before,  put  your  yellowed  muflins  in  firft,  aAd 
let  them  be  covered  over  with  a  clean  cloth :  you  may 
walh  them  out  whilft  warm,  or  let  them  ftand  all  night, 
it  will  do  them  no  harm,  but  clear  them. 

Obferve  when  you  wafh  them  out,  to  take  care  and 
wafh  tht  blue  out,  then  lay  them  in  clear  pump  water, 
and  if  you  have  not  time  toftarch  them  all  at  once,  put 
no  more  in  your  ftarch  than  you  can  Hniih  in  one  dny, 
for  lying  in  the  ftarch  makes  them  look  yellow. 

But  let  them  be  put  in  pump  wat^,  till  you  hare 
time  to  finifh  them,  but  do  not  exceed  two  days. 

Moft  ftarchers  boil  their  nniflins;  but  it  certainly 
wears  them  out :  the  icalding,  and  letting  the  muflins 
lie  therein,  does  them  more  good  than  a  boil.  Likewift, 
obferve  never  to  foap  your  muflins,  for  ws^ing  out  the- 
foap  will  caufe  you  to  fray  them. 

7i  rin/e  Muslins  before youjlarch  them.  Takd  pump 
water  in  a  clean  pan,  take  a  fnriaU  quantity  of  bkie  in  a 
cup,  and  put  a  little  pump  water  to  k  i  flidce  it  about 
in  the  cup,  and  pour  a  Kttle  of  it  into  Ae  rirtfing  water  i 
then  with  your  hand  ftir  it  about ;   put  your  wfctteft 

muflins 


CLEAR-StAkCrtlNG/  ^65 

tntJllins  in  firft,  one  by  one,  fqueezing  them  out  One  by 
one,  as  you  put  them  in  -,  but  put  no  moi*c  in  than  two 
or  three  at  a  time,  or  the  blue  will  fettle  Upon  them  j 
in  which  cafe  rub  them  with  your  hand  lightly  in  thfi 
water,  and  it  will  come  off;  and  if  any  of  your  muf- 
lins  be  yellow,  you  muft  make  the  rinflng  watera  little 
bluer ;  after  you  have  rinfed  them  all  out,  fqueeze  them 
<>ne  by  one  between  your  hands  very  hard,  becaufe  they 
will  not  take  the  ft  arch  if  any  water  is  left  in  them,  and 
pull  them  out  with  very  dry  hands.  One  by  one ;  double 
them,  lay  them  upon  a  clean  dry  cloth,  in  Order  to 
ftarch  them.  Some  people  ftarcl^  them  dry,  but  they 
ought  not,  for  it  makes  them  look  yellow  and  ftifF,  and 
is  alfo  very  apt  to  fray  them. 

To  make  Starch  for  Mijlin^.    Take  a  pint  of  pump 
water  to  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  ftarch  s  put  the  water 
in  a  clean  fkillet,  and  put  it  over  a  clear  fire  till  it  is 
luke-warm ;    then  put  in  your  ftarch,  keep  it  flirring 
flowly  One  way,  till  it  boils  one  boil,  and  no  more;  if  it, 
boils  too  much,  it  makes  it  yellow  j  pour  it  into  a  clean^ 
pan,  cover  it  with  a  clean  plate  till  it  is  cold,  then  take 
fome  upon  your  hand,  and  (bme  blue  in  the  other  hand, 
mix  them  together,  but  make  it  not  too  blue,  for  the 
lefs  blue  the  better,  fo  it  looks  a  litde  blue  it  is  enough: 
you  need  not  make  any  more  at  a  tinie,  for  if  you  keep 
it  above  a  week,  it  will  make  your  mufli^ns  look  yellow* 
Take  your  muflins  doubled,  as  before,  one  by  one,  in 
your  left  hand,  and  with  your  right  Ipread  the  ftarch, 
but  not  too  thick ;  firft  on  the  one  fide  and  then  on  the 
other,  but  do  not  open  them. 

When  you  have  ftarched  your  muflins,  lay  them  in 

the  fame  earthen  difh,  kneading  them  with  your  double 

Vot.I.  Mm  fift> 


a6€l 


CLEAR. STARCHINa 


fift,  till  the  ftarch  flicks  about  your  hands ;  then,  ^ring-^ 
ing  them  very  hard,  wipe  them  with  a  dry  cloth  j  aftc^: 
that  open  them,  and  rub  them  very  flightly  through 
your  hands. 

In  clapping  the  muflin,  take  the  oppofitc  ends  ot 
each  piece  in  your  hands,  and  clap  therp  very  hard^  but 
walh  your  hands  as  often  as  you  perceive  any  ftarch  or 
wet  upon  thenri  j  pull  out  the  muflin  very  well  with  botl^ 
hands,  to  you  and  from  you,  to  prevent  the  fraying; 
and  be.fure  your  hands  are  exceeding  dry;  for  if  any  of 
the  ftarch  remain  upon  them,  it  will  fray  as  you  pull  i^ 
out}  hold  it  againft  the  lights  to  fee  if  it  is  clapped 
enough. 

But  if  you  obferve  any  thing  that  looks  fhining>  whicb 
if.  the  ftarch,  you  muft  rub  it  over  gendy  with  your 
hands,  but  always  dry;  fo  that  when  it.  is  clapped 
cnoujgh,  you  will  obferve.  it  to  fly  afunder,  and  not  fluck 
to  your  hands.  Obferve  to  clap  very  quick  and,  very 
hard,  and  when  you  fee  no  fliining,  it  is.enpugh  :  you 
.rpuft  never  clap  by  the  fire  but  in  frofty  weather,  for 
that  fpoils  the  colour. 

Let  all  muflin  be  ironed  upon  a  clean  foft  woollen 
cloth,  two  or  three  times  doubled ;  the  thicker  the  iron- 
ipg-cioth,  for, worked  muflins,  the  richer  the  work  will 
appear.  You  muft  always  iron  on  the  wrong  fide. — Su 
Linen. 

Cambricks  and  lawns,  in  the  wafliing  and  rinfingj 
muft  be  managed  as  you  do  muflins ;  but  you  muft 
make  a  very  thin  ftarch,  dip  them  in,  and  fqueeze  them, 
out  very  hard,  and  clap  them  very  carefully,  for  they^ 
arc  very  apt  to  flip ;  then  fold  them  up,  and  put  them 
into  a  dry  clean  pan,  when  they  are  clapped :    if  you . 

tou^h 


COD-FISH.  i67 

touch  them  with  any  wet,  it  will  leave  a  fort  of  thick 
bok,  and  fo  will  alfo  muflins :  you  may  iron  them,  as 
well  as  coarfc  muflins,  within  a  damp  cloth,  laid  over 
and  under  them,  but  not  with  too  hot  an  iron;  and  alio 
iron  them  on  the  wrong  fide,  as  you  do  thick  muflins.  • 
Aprons  and  handkerchiefs  may  be  ftarched  in  a  very 
thin,  but  thicker  than  water  ftarch  5  a  fmall  matter  of  clap- 
pmgferves  them;  but  obferve  that  they  are  clear:  you  miift 
alfo  pull  them  out  towards  the  gathers,  to  prevent  the 
fraying  them.  E v-ery  way  double  them,  and  lay  them  on 
Ac  board  as  even  as  you  can,  and  let  them  lie  till  they 
are  pretty  near  dry  j  then  Ipread  them  fingle,  and  iron 
rti  the  wrong  fides. 


CO  D  -  F  I  S  H. 

The  head  and  fhoulders  are  a  very  favourite  part  of 
this  fifh,  and  generally  drefled  alone ;  but  for  this  pur* 
pofe,  the  fifli  ihould  be  chofen  very  thick  about  the 
fhoukiers^  and  at  leaft  fix  inches  of  tfit  body  left  to  the 
h/ead. 

To  boil  Cod.  Set  on  a  fifli-kettle  of  a  proper  fize  for 
the  cod  5  put  in  a  large  quantity  of  water,  with  a  quarter 
of  a  pint,  or  more,  of  vinegar,  a  handful  of  fait,  and 
half  a  ftick  of  horfc-radilh ;  let  thcfe  boil  together,  and 
then  put  in  the  filh.  When  it  is  enough  (which  will 
be  known  by  feeling  the  fins,  and  by  the  look  of  the  fifh) 
lay  it  t6  drain,  put  it  on  a  hot  fifh-plate,  and  then  in  a 
warm  diib,  with  the  liver  cut^n  half,  and  laid  on  each 
fide.    Sauce«^lhntnpsj  or  oyfter-fauce. 

Mm  a  TV 


a^8  COD-FISH, 

To  boil  Salt  Cod.  Steep  your  falt-filh  in  water  all 
night,  with  a  glafs  of  vinegars  it  will  take  out  the  fait, 
and  make  it  eat  like  fre(h  fifh.  The  next  day  boil  it,. 
When  it  is  enough,  pull  it  in  flakes  into  your  difli ;  then 
pour  egg  faucc  over  it,  or  parfnips  boiled,,  and  beat 
fine  with  butter  and  cream.     Send  it  to  the  table  on  a 

■ 

water  plate,  for  it  will  loon  grow  cold. 

Salt  Cod  the  Dutch  way.  Let  the  filh  be  well  fcaled, 
^d  the  whiteft  that  can  be  got ;  the  fait  being  taken  oflT, 
boil  fomc  fmall  carrots  in  water,  and  put  the  cod,  cut 
into  ilices,  into  it ;  when  the  cod  is  done,  diih  it  up, 
^d  with  each  flice  of  cod  two  or  three  fmall  carrots. 

Walh  and  mince  fome  parfley  fmall,  put  it  into  a, 
fauce  boat,  and  alfo  melted  butter  in  another  -,  you  may 
alfo  put  muftard  into  the  butter  (if  you  like  it) ;  fervc 
it  up  hot* 

To  drefs  Crimp  Cod.  Cut  the  cod  into  flices  one 
inch  thick,  put  them  into  hard  water  and  fait  for  two 
or  three  hours;  then  boil  'them  very  quickly  in  a  ftew- 
pan  almoft  full  of  fpring  water  and  fait :  fkim  them  wcry 
qlean,  aod  keep  them  boiling  for  about  eight  or  ten  mi-* 
nutes ;  then  take  them  out,  and  lay  them  in  a  fifh-plate. . 
Serve  up  with  flirimp  or  oyfter-fauce. 

Or,  after  they  arc  boiled  hrilkly  for  a  few  minutes, 
t^ke  out  the  flices,  and  having  drained  them  on  a  fieve, 
dry  them  well,  flour  them,  and  lay  them  at  a  diflance 
cn  a  very  good  fire,  to  broil.     Serve  the  above  fauce. 

Frejh  Cod  with  fweet  Herbs.  Cut  a  fmall  cod  in  five 
or  fix  pieces,  bone  it,  and  marinade  it  in  melted  butter, 
the  juipe  of  a  lemon,  chopped  parfley,  fhalots,  and  fweet 
herbs  I  then  lay  it  upon  the  difh  you  intend  for  table,  with 
hU  the  marinade  both  under  and  over,  and  ftrew  it  over 

with 


C  O  D  -  F  I  S  H.  a69 

with  bread  crumbs.  Bafte  ic  with  rhelted  butter,  bake 
it  in  the  oven,  and  ferve  with  what  fauce  you  think 
proper. 

Tofiew  Cod.  Lay  your  cod  in  thin  fliccs  at  the  bot- 
tom of  a  difli,  with  half  a  pint  of  white  wine,  a  pint  of 
gravy,  fomc  oyfters  and  their  liquor,  pepper,  fait,  and 
nutmeg  j  a  bunch  of  fweet  herbs,  and  an  onion  ftuck 
with  cloves :  let  it  ftew  foftly,  Ihaking  the  pan  often  to 
prevent  burning,  till  it  is  near  enough;  thicken  it  with 
ibme  butter  rolled  in  flour,  let  it  flew  a  litdc  longer, 
take  out  the  onion  and  fweet  herbs,  and  ferve  it  ho^ 
garnifhed  with  fliced  lemon. 

TCo  boil  a  Cod's  Head  and  Shoulders.  Clean  a  cod's 
head  and  fhoulders  well,  rub  it  over  with  lemon  and 
fait,  and  lay  it  on  a  fifh-plate  i  when  the  water  boils, 
throw  in  a  handful  of  fait,  and  a  litdc  vinegar ;  put  in"* 
the  head,  and  let  it  boil  flowly  for  half  an  hour,  or 
longer,  if  it  be  large.  Take  it  up  Carefully,  and  lay  it 
on  a  difh  $  lay  fbme  fried  (bah  or  fmelts  round  it,  and 
ferve  it  up  with  anchovy  and  fhrimp  fauce. 

Mother  way.  Cut  the  head  with  as  much  of  the 
fhoulders  as  you  think  proper ;  tie  it  up  with  pack^ 
thread,  and  put  it  in  a  fifh-kettle  with  a  falfe  bottom, 
with  as  much  water  as  will  cover  it,  a  handful  of  fait, 
and  about  a  pint  of  vinegar  ;  put  it  on  the  fire ;  when 
it  boils,  fkim  it  well ;  let  it  boil  flowly,  for  fear  of  break- 
ing the  fkin  5  then  fcald  the  oyflers  in  their  own  liquor, 
drsun  and  take  off  the  beards ;  fbain  the  liquor  into 
a  fauce  or  ftew  pan;  add  a  piece^f  butter  rolled  in  flour, 
a  litde  white  ii^ne,  nutmeg,  pepper,  and  fait ;  reduce  it 
to  a  proper  confiflcnce ;  then  add  two  anchovies  chop- 
ped, and  the  oyfbrs ;  warm  together  without  boiling, 

a  drain 


«70  d  O  D  -  F  I  S  H. 

drain  ahd  difli  the  fi(h,  and  ferve  fomc  of  die  fauce 
i:ipon  it,  and  the  remainder  in  a  fauce  boat. 

To  bake  a  Cod's  Head  and  Shoulders.  Make  the 
•head  and  Ihoulders  quite  clean;  make  a  ftulfing  of 
crumbs  of  bread,  fuet,  pepper,  fait,  parfley,  and  thyme 
Ihrddfine  j  add  two  eggs,  mix  itwell,  and  ftufFthe  head  and 
ihoulders  with  it :  do  the  cod  over  with  ^n  egg,  and 
crumb  it  with  bread ;  put  Ibme  pieces  of  butter  over  it, 
and  fonxe  gravy  under  it,  and  bake  it  in  a  quick  oven 
far  one  hour.  When  it  is  baked,  ftrain  the  gravy  from 
it  into  a  ftewpan,  add  two*  anchovies,  and  fome  juice  of 
lemon :  thicken  it  up  with  butter  and  flour;  lay  the  filh 
ih  a  dilh,  and  pour  your  fauce  into  it,  and  garnilh  it 
yfnth  flices  of  lemon. 

To  drtfs  a- Cod's  Head  and  Shoulders.  Having  ta- 
ken otit  the  gilfe,  and  the  blood  clean  from  the  bone, 
iWfli  the  head  very  clean,  rub  over  it  a  little  Iklt  and  a 
glafe  of  allegar,  then  lay  it  on  your  fifh-plate.  When 
your  water  boils,  throw  in  a  good  handful  of  fak,  with 
a  glafs  of  allegar,  tlitn  put  in  your  filh,  and  let  it  boil 
gently  for  half  an  hour ;  if  it  is  a  large  one,  three  quar- 
ters. Take  it  up  very  carefully,  and  ftrip  the  fkin  nice- 
ly ofF.  Set  it  before  a  briflc  fire,  dredge  it  all  over  with 
flouf,  and  bafte  it  Well  with  butter :  when  the  froth  be- 
gins to  rife,  throw  over  it  fome  very  fine  white  bread 
crumbs.  You  muft  keep  batting  it  all  the  time  to  make 
ic  froth  well.  When,  it  is  of  a  fine  white  brown,  difh  it 
up,  and  garnifli  it  with  a  lemon  cut  in  flices,  fcraped 
hbrfe-radiih,  barberries,'  a  few  fmall  fiifli  fried  and  laid 
round  it,  or  fried  oyfters.  Cut  the  roe  and  liver  in  flices, 

and 


C  O  D  .  F  I  S  H.  ft7# 

and  lay  over  it  a  little  of  the  lobfler  out  of  the  ikuce  m 
lumps,  ai)d  th<ra  ferve  it. — See  Sauces. 

To  broil  Cod.  Having  cut 'a  cod  into  ilice$  of  about 
two  inches  thick,  dry  and  flour  them  well ;  make  a  goo4 
clear  fire,  rub  the  gridiron  with  a  piece  of  ch^k,  and 
fet  it  high  from  the  fire.  Turn  them  often,  till. they  a» 
quite  enough,  and  of  a  fine  brown.  They  require  great 
ore  to  prevent  them  from  breaking.  Lofailer  or  ihrimp 
iauce. 

To  drefs  Coo  Sounds.  Steep  them  as  you  do  the 
lak  cod,  and  boil  them  in  a  large  quantity  of  milk  and 
water.  When  they  are  very  tender  and  whiter  take 
them  up,  and  drain  the  water  out  -,  th^n  pour  ihe  egg^ 
lauce,  boiling  hot,  over  them,  and  ferve  them  up. 

To  broil  Cod  Sounds.  Lay  them  a  few  minutes  in 
hot  water  -,  dien  take  them  out,  aod  rub  them  well  with 
£ilt,  and  take  ofF  the  fkin  and  black  dirt,  when  they  will 
look  white.  After  this,  put  them  into  water,  and  give 
them  a  boil.  Take  them  out,  flour  them  well,  pej^er 
and  fait  them,  and  then  put  them  on  the  gridiron.  As 
foon  as  they  are  enough,  lay  them  on  your  difli,  and 
pour  melted  butter  and  muftard  over  them. 

To  hoil  Cod  Sounds.  Cod  founds,  drefled  like  lit- 
tle turkies,  is  a  pretty  fide  difh  for  a  large  table,  or  for 
a  dinner  in  Lent.  Boil  your  founds,  as  for  eating,  but 
not  too  much.  Take  them  up,  and  let  them  ftand  till 
they  are  quite  cold ;  then  i^ake  a  forced-meat  of  chop- 
ped oyfters,  crumbs  of  brea(]l,  a  lump  of  butter,  the  yolk 
of  two  eggs,  nutmeg,  pepjpcr,  and  fait,  and  fill  your* 
ibunds  with  it.  Skewer  theiK  in  the  fliape  of  a  turkey, 
and  lard  them  down  each  fide,  as^  you  would  do  a  tur- 
key'^ 


*74  C    6    t)    L   I    N    G    S, 

key's  breaft.  'Duft  them  well  with  flour,  and  put  them 
before  the  fire  in  a  tin  oven  to  roaft.  Bafte  them  well 
with  butter.  When  they  arc  enough,  pour  on  them 
oyfter-fauce,  and  garnilh  with  barberries. 

To  fricajfee  Cod  Sounds.  Having  cleaned  them  very 
well,  cut  them  into  little  pieces,  boil  them  tender  in 
milk  and  water ;  then  throw  them  into  a  cullender  to 
drain ;  pour  them  into  a  clean  fauce-pan,  feafon  them 
with  a  litde  beaten  mace  and  grated  nutmeg,  and  a  very 
litde  fak ;  pour  to  them  juft  cream  enough  for  fauce, 
and  a  good  piece  of  butter  rolled  in  flour ;  keep  fhaking> 
your  fauce-pan  round  all  the  time,  till  it  is  thick  enough  i 
then  dilh  it  up,  and  garnifh  with  lemon. 


CODLINGS. 

.  To  preferve  Green  Codlings.  Gather  them  when 
they  are  half  grown,  lay  them  in  a  brals  pan,  with  fbmc 
vine  leaves  under  and  over  them  j  put  to  them  fome  wa- 
ter, cover  them  clofc  down,  and  fet  them  on  a  flow  fire. 
When  the  fkim  begins  to  rife,  take  them  out  and  peel 
them;  put  them  intb  the  pan  again,  with  fbme  hard 
water,  and  the  leaves  under  and  over  them ;  add  to  them 
half  a  pint  of  vinegar,  and  a  piece  of  roche  alum ;  cover 
them  clofe  down,  to  prevent  the  fleam  from  getting  out  i 
then  hang  them  over  a  flow  fire  till  they  are  quite  green, 
taking  care  they  do  not  crack.  Take  them  out,  and 
with  a  fmall  penknife  make  a  hole  in  them  to  the  heart, 
and  take  out  the  feeds.  Weigh  them,  and  to  every 
pound  of  codlings,  put  one  pound  and  a  quarter  of  dou- 
bie*refined  fugar^  clarify  half  of  it,  put  in  the  codlings, 

and 


CODLINGS.  -273 

and  fet  them  to  fimmcr,  ftirring  them  all  the  time. 
Pound  the  other  part  of  the  fugar,  arid  fprinkfe  fome  on  5 
let  them  fimmer,  take  them  ofF,  and  let  them  ftaqd  a 
little  j  put  them  on  again,  and  do  fo  for  three  times,*  ad- 
ding the  fugar  till  it  is  all  in ;  fet  them  by  for  fix  days^ 
turning  them  every  day ;  then  fet  them  on  the  fire,  let 
them  boil  for  five  minutes,  keep  ftirring  them,  that  they 
may  do  all  fides  alike ;  put  them  in  the  jars.  When 
they  arc  cold,  lay  on  them  a  brandy  paper,  and  cover 
them  with  bladders. 

To  pickle  Codlings.  Let  the  codlings  be.  but 
half  grown,  and  without  Ippts ;  for  if  they  arc^ 
ipottcd,  they  are  commonly  worm-eaten :  fcald  them 
in  water  till  the  flcin  will  come  ofi^  eafily  j  then  put 
them  again  into  cold  water,  and  a  fmall  piece  of  ^lumi 
to  green,  in  a  brals  pan  over  the  fire,  which  they  will 
loon  do  if  they  are  kept  clofe  covered. 

Some  advife,  that  the  codlings  be  green,  buc  near  to 
their  fbll  growth  j  firft  fcald  them  in  a  foft  water  till  the 
flcin  will  p^el  ofi^,  and  then  having  made  a  pickle  of  vi- 
negar and  bay  fait,  allowing  a  large  ipoonful  of  fait  to  » 
quart  of  vinegar,  a  quarter  of  an  ounce  of  fliced  ginger, 
three  or  four  cloves  of  garlicky  and  a  quarter  of  an  ounce 
of  white  pepper.  Boil  this  in  a  bi-afs  pan,  with  a  piece 
of  aliim  as  big  as  a  horfe-bean,  for  a  quarter  of  an  hour, 
and  pour  it  hot  upon  your  codlings,  covering  the  mouth 
of  the  jar  with  a  cloth,  and  let  it  ftand  by  the  fire  fide . 
boil  the  pickle  till  your  codlings  are  as  green  as  can  be 
defired,  and  when  they  are  quite  cpld,  cork  them  clofe, 
and  fet  them  by  in  a  dry  place. — i — See  alfo  the  articles 
Apple,  CreaMj  and  Pvodings, 

Vot.I.  Nh  COF- 


C    »74    ■) 


-> 


COFFEE. 

Many  virtues  have  been  afcribed  to  this  berry,  which 
it  never  poflefled ;  2uid  much  undeferved  cenfure  has 
been  thrown  upon  its  ufe.  It  is  certainly  good  in  weak- 
nels  of  the  ftomach,  head-ache,  and  want  of  appetite  ; 
in  lethargic  and  fleepy  difeafes  j  but  it  is  not  good  for 
lean  and  bilious  people,  nor  for  women  in  a  ftate  of 
pregnancy.  Its  invigorating  qualities  are  ftrongly  ex- 
perienced, by  taking  it  when  the  ftomach  is  over -loaded 
with  food,  naufeated  with  forfeit,  or  weakened  by  in- 
temperance ;  and  it  certsdnly  takes  away  that  liftleflhefe 
and  languor,  which  nervous  people  fo  feverely  feel,  af- 
ter any  deviation  to  excefs,  fatigue,  or  irrcguUrity.  It 
Is  faid  to  be  of  ufe  in  the  gravel ;  and  a  diih  of  ftrong 
coffee,  without  milk  or  fugar,  taken  frequently  in  the 
height  of  an  afthmatic  fit^  contributes  much  to  its  abate- 
ment. In  the  wet  and  damp  feafons,  to  which  the  cH- 
mate  of  England  is  fo  fubje£b,  there  is  no  doubt  buC 
great  advantage  muft  refult  frpm  the  ufe  of  coSee« 


COLDS    AND    COUGHS, 

All  coUs  are  accompanied  by  a  certain  degree  of  fe- 
ver. Extremes  of  heat  and  cold,  a  too  fudden  expofure 
to  either,  or  too  quick  a  change  from  the  one  to  the 
ether,  will  unqueftioriably  check  the  perfpiration,  dif- 
crder  the  body,  and  bring  on  a  degree  of  fever;  but  as 
<ach  of  thofc  circumftances  are  fometimes  unavoidable^ 


coLt)s  AMD  coughs;       syj 

Ktiman  precaution  can  extend  no  farther^  than  to  leflea 
the  ill  confequences  which  may  arife  from  them. 

In  order  to  this,  if  is  in  the  power  of  every  peribn  to 
Irrap  himfelf  well  up>  when  he  is  to  come  into  the  air 
from  a  warm  room>  and  to  endeavour  to  keep  np  the 
heat  of  his  body  on  flich  occafions,  by  moving  fader  tl^att 
ordinary ;  and  when  he  is  obliged  to  enter  a  clofe  room^ 
fix>m  the  cold  and  open  air,  to  keep  at  a  diftance  fix>iQ 
Ac  fire,  and  approach  it  by  very  flow  degrees. 

Changing  Wet  cloaths,  and  in  particular  ftockings 
and  Ihoes,  is  frequendy  neglefted  from  no  other  caufe 
than  idlenefs  or  inattention ;  yet  fitting  in  wet  garments^ 
and  efpecially  going  near  the  fire  in  them,  will  fcarce 
ever  fail  to  produce  a  violent  cold.  The  dangers  arifing 
from  damp  linen,  beds,  rooms,  and  houies,  may,  in 
various  inftances,  be  lefTened  by  ileeping  in  the  blan- 
kets, or  with  our  cloaths  on,  even  where  we  cannot 
dbipe  from  the  inconvenience  itfelf. 

Yet,  notwithftanding  our  utmoft  care,  we  are  perpe* 
tually  liable  to  obftru&ions  of  perfpiraticn,  and  conle<* 
quently  to  colds ;  for  the  treatment  and  management  of 
which,  the  following  diredions  wiU^  in  general,  be  found 
fufficient. 

The  fymptoms  which  give  us  notice  that  we  have 
Caught  cold,  are,  in  many  refpefts,  fimilar  to  thofe  which 
precede  and  accompany  the  attack  of  an  inflammatory 
fever ;  fuch  as  opprellion  of  the  breaft,  pains  in  the  headj 
<£fincrination  to'motion,  and  frequently  heats  and  fhiver^ 
ii^  3  but  there  are  alfb  other  figns  of  cold,  fuch  as  a 
fuUnefs  or  obftruftion  of  ;he  nbfe,  a  defiuxion  of  rheum 
from  the  noftrils  and  eyes,  and  a  difpofition  to  coughj 
which  are  in  general  the  firft  complaints,  and  where  pro- 

Nn  2  per 


=1 


y 


t76  COLDS   AifD  COUGHS*, 

per  care  is  taken  in  the  beginning)  the  only  ones  that 
appear. 

.  When,  from  thefc  fymptoms,  we  arc  taught  to  be- 
lieve that  we  have  taken  cold,  and  that  the  ill  effed^ 
of  it  are  approaching,  the  firft  ftep  towards  obviating 
danger  and  promoting  recovery,  is  abftinence  from  our 
accuftomed  food  and  liquors  $  nor  is  this  forbearance  to 
"be  exercifed  with  regard  to  the  quality  only,  the  quan- 
tity alfo  is  to  be  leflened ;  and  inftcad  of  full  meals  of 
flcfh  and  fifh,  and  plentiful  draughts  of  wine,  or  other 
ftrong  and  fermented  liquors,  the  patient  muft  be  con- 
tented with  a  fcanty  diet  of  weak  broths,  or  other  fpoon 
meat,  puddings,  tarts,  and  bif<^uits ;  and  for  common  I 
drink,  barley-water,  baum-tea,  or  the  deco6Gon  of  bar-  I 
ky  and  tamarinds^  with  the  addition  of  liquorice  \  dircc-  ^ 
tions  for  preparing  which  have  been  heretofore  given ; 
and  all  his  drinks  may  be  rendered  agreeably  acid,  by 
the  juice  of  lemons,  oranges,  the  infulion  of  tamarinds, 
or  currant-jelly. 

At  night,  white-wine  whey  will  be  very  proper  for 
diole  who  have  been  accuftomed  to  generous  liquors ; 
in  other  cafes,  the  fame  diluting  drinks  as  arc  above 
preferibed  ought  to  ferve  inftead  of  fupper. 

On  die  fucceeding  morning,  kt  the  patient  remain  in 
bed  a  few  hours  longer  than  ufual,  and  encourage  gendo 
perfpiration,  by  tea,  barley-water,  or  any  other  diluting 
liquids  and  if  the  fweating  Ihould  grow  profufe,  hft 
Ihould  be  careful  in  leaving  his  bed,  and  fhifting  his 
linen,  cautioufly  examining  that  what  he  is  to  put  on 
hath  been  aired  by  the  fire,  and  made  warm. 

Under  diefe  regulations,  we  may  venture  to  aflcrt, 
that  colds  would  very  feldom  continue  troubkfome  above 

twenty- 


COLDS  AND  COdGHSi  «77 

twenty-four  hoiirs ;  nor  would  they  be  attended  with 
confequences  which,  for  want  of  timely  attention,  foon 
become  dangerous,  and  very  frequendy  fatal ;  nor  would 
coughs,  inflammations  of  the  breafl  and  lungs,  pleurifies, 
and  coniumptions,  fo  often  follow  fuch  flight  colds,  as 
might  in  the  earlier  ftages  have  been  eafily  conquered 
by  a  vciy  ilhort  confinement  to  abftinence  and  regimen^ 

We  would  not,  indeed,  advife  confinement  and 
fweadng  on  every  flight  occafion  j  over  caudon  may,  in 
fome  infl:ances,  be  as  produftive  of  evil,  as  negleft ;  and 
thole  who  accufl:om  themfelves  to  take  to  their  beds  or 
rooms,  and  to  promote  pcrfpirarion  by  the  ufe  of  diluting 
liquors,  on  every  fufpicion  of  a  cold,  will  bring  on,  by 
degrees,  a  general  relaxation,  which  may  render  the  ha- 
bit fo  fufccptiblc  of  colds,  as  to  be  fcarce  ever  free  from 
them.  Thofe  who  are  very  apt  to  take  cold,  (hould  ufe 
conflant  moderate  exercife,  bathe  in  cold  water,  and 
take  fuch  medicines  ai  incrcafc  the  vigour  of  the  circu- 
lation, and  flrengthen  the  whole  fyft:em  5  and  the  diipo-^ 
fition  to  take  cold  may,  in  a  great  meafure,  be  lefTenecf, 
by  gradually  acquiring  a  habit  of  expofure  to  fudden 
changes  of  heat  and  cold :  nor  will  gendc  exercife  in 
dry  weather,  cither  in  walking,  on  horfeback,  or  in  a 
carriage,  be  at  all  improper  during  the  continuance  of 
a  cold  J  care  being  taken  not  to  be  out  after  fun-fet,  nor 
In  a  damp,  moift,  or  Iharp  air. 

But  if  the  cold  ftiould  refifl:  the  treatment  and  regimen 
which  we  have  prefcribed,  it  may  be  right  to  bathe  the 
l^ps  and  feet  in  blood -warm  water  immediately  before 
going  to  bed,  drinking  direftly  after  a  draught  of 
win«  wheyj  or  fome  other  diluting  liquor :  this  method 

wiU 


^7*  CbLBS  ANb  COUGHS. 

•  •  • 

will  often  liiccced  in  reftoring  the  perfpiratioh,  Wlicii 
other  attempts  fail. 

Should  rfie  cold"  notwithftanding  continue,  and  the 
V  IJrniptonis  increafe  iri  violence  5  Ihould  the  pulfe  become 
quick  and  ftrong ;  fhould  the  pain  in  the  breaftj  and 
die  difficulty  of  breathing  be  augmented ;  and  a  dry 
Ikin,  accompanied  with  much  thirft,  indicate  the  ap-^ 
proach  of  an  inflammatory,  or  ardent  fever ;  bleedings 
and  a  bliffer  between  the  (houlders  may  be  neceflary, 
'together  with  a  frequent  repetition  of  the  (aline  miscture, 
and  fmall  dofes  of  nitre  and  rhubarb,  treating  the  pa- 
tent, in  all  relpefts,  as  in  the  beginning  of  a  flight 
fever. 

By  thele  meafiires,  purlued  in  fealbn,  the  complaints 
will,  in  moft  cafes,  be  removed  in  three  or  four  days  j 
and  fymptoms  which  threatened  a  fever  of  a  very  ferioua 
Mature,  will  generally  give  way  to  well-timed  precautions, 
and  gentle,  but  early  applications. 

But  above  all  things,  let  heating  poflets  of  treacle, 
de,  and  the  like,  and  warm  medicines  to  promote  pcr- 
\^  Ipiration,  be  av6ided;  the  dilpofitlon  of  the  blood  to  fe- 
ver does  not  require  augmentation ;  nor  will  fweats,  pro- 
duced by  violence,  relieve :  all  tliat  is  neceflary  to  effeft 
the  cure  of  the  cold,  is  to  take  off  the  contraftion  of 
the  veflelis,  and  to  reftore  perfpiration ;  •  and  this  will 
more  fpecdily  be  done  by  abftinence,  moderate  warmth,  ^ 
a  little  indulgence  in  bed,  and  diluting  liquors,  than  by 
all  the  medicines  in  the  apothecary's  (hop ;  the  adminif- 
tritiort'  of  which,  when  they  are  unneceflary,  will  anfwer 
no  other  purpofe,  than  to  create  an  occafion  for  the  ufc 
of  them. 

Coughs 


r 

r  COLDS  ANi>  COUGHS.,  i^j^ 

^  Cough?  are  )n  general  occafioned  by  colds^  fbme-i 

times  attending  them  as  a  fymptom  from  the  beginning,, 
and  at  others  produced  by  mifmanagement  or  negled; 
in  either  cafe,  the  progrcls  of  a  cough  is  troublelbmci 
and  the  continuance  of  it  dangerous,  weakening  digef*. 
tion,  deftroying  the  appetite,  and  by  degrees  producing. 
a  general  relaxation  >and  bad  habit  of  body,  and  fine- 
quently  ending  in  heftic  fevers  or  confumptions, 

A  cough  is  a  violent  expulfion  of  fome  kind  of  matter. 
from  the  branches  of  the  lungs,  by  means  of  a  convul- 
five  fpafin  or  comprcffion,  and  is  always  accompanied 
vith  a  difficulty  of  breathing, 
L  '  The  regimen  which  we  have  prefcribed  in  colds,  muft 
I  be  ftill  more  ftriftly  pbferved  when  they  are  attended 
with  coughs ;  wines,  fpirits,  malt  liquors,  and  high, 
food,  muft  be  omitted,  and  a  light  diet  and  diluting  li- 
quors fubftitut^d ;  a  regular,  moderate  degree  of  warmth 
will  alfe  be  ufefuL 

Cou^s  are  ufually  dry  in  the  beginning,  and  in  thi% 
ftage  may  generally  be  removed  by  keeping  the  body: 
open,  promoting  gehde  perfpiration,  and  chewing  after 
every  fit  of  coughing  a  fmall  bit,  to  the  amount  of  a^ 
£:ruple  at  a  time,  of  the  Peruvian  bark. 

But  as  the  common  remedies  prefcribed  at  the  com- 
mencement of  a  cough  are  generally  oily  and  fweet  medi- 
cijies,  thedigefl;ion  is  foon  fpoiled,  the  cough  grows  moift^ 
the  breaft  is  opprefled  with  tough  and  glewy  phlegm,. 
and  it  beconEies  neceilkry  to  apply  to  fuch  medicines  as 
may  pronK>te  expeftqration,  and  aflift  in  throwing  it  off;, 
and  for  this  purpofe  the  folution  of  gum  ammoniac  may 

be  given  in  the  quantity  of  a  table- fpoon&d  or  two, 

'  ac« 


48o  COLDS  AND  COUGHS. 


according  to  circumftcuices,  twice  or  thrice  a  daf,  or 
oftcner  if  neceflary. 

The  vinegar  or  oxymel  of  Iqiiills  hath  alio  been  re- 
mmended  in  the  following  form  :  Take  of  the  vine- 
gar on  oxymel,  one  ounce;  fimple  nutmeg  water,  one 
ounce  J    common  water  and  balfamic  fyr«p,    of  each 
four  drams. 

A  table-fpoonful  or  two  to  be  taken  three  or  four 
times  a  day,  when  the  cough  is  mofl  troublefome. 

To  make  the  vinegar  of  fquills :  Take  of  fuch  of  the 
toots  of  fquills  as  are  plump,  frefli,  and  full  of  a  clam- 
my juice,  one  ounce ;  diftilled  vinegar,  a  pint.  Let  it 
ftand  twelve  or  fourteen  days,  fo  near  the  fire  as  to  re- 
ceive a  gentle  heat ;  then  ftrain  it  off,  and  add  about  an' 
ounce  of  proof  fpirits. 

For  the  oxymel :  Infufe  an  ounce  of  Iquills  well, 
bruifed,  for  ten  or  twelve  days,  in  a  pint  of  diftilled  vi- 
negar, near  the  fire ;  then  ftrain  it  off,  and  add  to  the 
vinegar  half  a  pound  of  honey,  and  boil  till  it  becomes 
%  fyrup. 

If  the  cough  is  violent,  bleeding  is  neceflary;  but 
•this  operation  fliould  only  be  performed  where  the  pa-r 
ticnt  is  young,  and  of  a  ftrong  conftitution  \^  and  if  a 
quick  and  high  pulfe  indicate  a  confiderable  degree  of  in* 
flammation.  In  weak  habits,  and  where  the  patient  is 
advanced  in  years,  the  lofs  of  blood  will  prove  in- 
jurious. 

It  may  alfo  be  right  to  give  a  gende  emetic  of  ipe- 
cacuanha, if  the  phlegm  feparates  with  difficulty,  or  oc- 
cafions  naufea  or  ficknefs. 

In  thefe  cafes  the  following  medicines  adminiftered  oc- 
cafionally,  as  the  violence  of  the  fymptoms  demand  re^ 

lief. 


GOLDS   AKO  COUQHS.,        ft8< 

« 

Jk^  Will  aniwer  the  purpofes'of  keeping  the  .body  6pen> 
and  allaying  the  irritation  or  ticklings  which  is  often  fo 
trouUeibme  as  to  prevent  the  patient  from  taking  reft. 

Take  about  the  fi2e  o^  a  large  nutmeg  of  knitive  decn 
tUary  at  going  to  bed. 

Take  of  oil  of  fweet  almonds^  and  iyrup  of  poppies^ 
of  each  one  ounce;  fine  fugar^  three  drams :  mixj  and 
take  a  tea-ipoonful  when  the  cough  is  urgent. 

Take  of  pure  water^  one  ounce  and  half;  of  fi-efh 
lemon  juice>  three  drams ;  of  fait  of  haitfliom^  eight 
grains;  of  ipermaceti ^  diilblved  with  yolk  of  egg,  half  a 
dram ;  of  nutmeg  watcr^  three  drams ;  of  baliamic  iy« 
nip,  one  dram.  Make  a  draught  to  be  taken  every  fix 
hours,  adding  to  that  ifehich  is  adminiftered  at  night  from 
five  to  fifteen  drops  of  liquid  laudanum^  if  the  patient  ia 
reftiefs* 

When  the  defluxion  is  thin  and  acrid>  ibftening  me^ 
dicines  wiU  be  proper,  and  a  decoction  or  infufion  of  the 
roots,  leaves,  and  flowers  of  the  wild  or  common  mal* 
low,  or  of  the  leaves  of  marfh*mallows,  colt's  foot,  or 
wild  poppy  leaves,  may  be  frequendy  taken  in  the  quan<», 
tity  of  a  tea-cupful,  to  which  may  be  added,  towarda 
night,  a.  tea-fpbonful  of  the  paregoric  elixir.  — -  S09 
Elixir. 

The  Spanifh  infufion  is  alfo  recommended:  Take 
an  ounce  of  Spanifh  juice,  commonly  called  Spanifh  li-- 
quorice ;  of  fait  of  tartar,  three  drams.  Pour  on  thefc 
ingredients  a  quart  of  boiling  water ;  let  them  infufc 
twelve  hours,  then  ftrain  off,  and  add  an  ounce  of  the 
iyrup  of  poppies. 

The  quantity  of  a  Ihiall  tea-cupful,  given  two  or  three 
times  a  day,  will  affift  in  relieving  die  cough ;  the  £ng* 
.  ;VoL.  I.  0%  lifli 


^^Phj 


^$«         COtPS  j^rtp   COUGHS. 

lifii  juice  «f  hffftQfm  is  ia  aU  relpeds  as  good  as 

$panUh- 
Lozenges  x^  various  ;kin4s  may  a^o  be  kqpt  in  ,'th4 

mouth  Qcca0Qiudl7»  as  wdl,^  the  cprnmon  barley  fugar» 
or  fugar-candy ;  in  particular^  fiiik  lozenges  wiU  be 
found  yfeful  in  l<K>iening  and  promotiqg  the  difcharge 
flf  the  tov|gh  .phlegm^  without  b^iqging  on  a  loathings 
fickneisj  and  difctgrjeeahle  fuhic^fs  of  the  ftoniach. 

Occafional  drains  or  evacitations  wiU  prove  fervice-- 
able  in  tedious  and  ^ftingte  coughsj  (ox  this  pivpofe» 
^i(Qns,  iflyes^  or  biifters,  may  be  opened  as  c^rcum- 
ikani^es  ihall  d|re6ti  if  the  h^btf  of  body  ifhould  £>r- 
bid  ,tiie  application  of  ,the  latter^  a  plafler  of  Burgundy 
ipitch  may  -be  fubftiiuted>  \^ich  fhould  be  placed  be-> 
mt^  the  ihou^diers^  and  taken  off"  and  wiped  every  three 
or  four  days,  renewing  it  at  the  end  of  fifteen  or  twen-»^ 
xy  days,  or  fopner,  if  appearances  belpeak  a  neceflity 
£^ric. 

Of  fiich  coughs  as  appear  to  proceed  fi-om  caules 
jtither  remote  ^om,  or  not  abfo}utdy  dependent  either 
on  colds,  or  other  difqrders,  it  may  be  necei£uy  to  give 
fome  account. 

Cou^  are  fometimes  occafioned  by  a  foul  or  weak 
ilomach  -,  and  this  may  be  difcovered  by  obferving,  that 
fhough  the  cough  is  extremely  troublelbme,  yet  it  is  not 
particularly  excited  by  drawing  the  breath,  which  never 
fails  to  produce  difiigree^le  confequenccs  in  that  cough^ 
;he  feat  of  which  is  in  the  lungs. 

The  cure  of  the  CQjt^gh  which  proceeds  from  a  fi>ul 
ftomach,  muft  be  effedted  principally  by  cleanling  and 
jftrengthening  medicines,  in  vomits  and  purges  fuited  to 
agq,  conftitudoiib  wd  drcumltances  i  the  former  may 

b« 


COLDS    AND   COUGHS.         a«a 

be  of  ipecacuanha,  or  the  antimonial  or  emetic  wine  $ 
the  latter  fhould  be  (Jf  the  bitter  ktnd ;  and  tinftura  fecra, 
or  the  facred  tinfture,  may  be  given  in  fmali  doles,  not 
exceeding  two  table  fpopnfuls^  every  day,  or  even  twice 
a  day,  {o  as  to  keep  the  body  moderately  open,*by  pro- 
<furing  two  or  three  ftools  in  every  twenty-four  hours. 
See  Tincture, 

Coughs  which  arife  from  weaknefs  of  ftomach  reiquire 
dxe  bark,  which  may  be  either  taken  in  fubftancc,  in  a 
deco6tion,  or  in  tinfture  prep^rfcd  as  follows : 

Take  of  Peruvian  bark  in  powder,  two  ounces  j  of  /x 
Virginia  fnake  root,  half  an  ounce ;  Seville  orange-pec! 
and  cinnamon  bruifed,  of  each  half  an  ounce  i  of  proof 
Ipirit,  a  quart'.    Infufe  the  whole  a  week  in  a  moderate 
warmth,  then  ftrain  or  pour  off  fine. 

Of  this  tindhire  ah  o'unCe  may  be  taken  once  or  twice 
a  day,  mixed  with  an  equal  quantity,  of  fimpie  cinnamon* 
water. 

If  a  cough  is  nervous,  which  may  be  difcovered  by 
its  being  accompanied  with  cramps  and  twitches,  not 
only  of  the  bre^  and  ftomach,  but  even  in  fome  cafes 
of  other  parts  of  the  body,  fuch  treatment  will  be  necel^ 
fery  as  in  the  flighteft  attacks  of  a  nervous  fever,  thoUjg^ 
change  of  air,  gentle  exercife,  and  opiates  adminiftered 
in  moderate  quantities,  will  frequently  be  found  fuffici* 
cm  to  remove  it.  If  the  fpafms  are  violent,  bathing  the 
lower  extremities  in  warm  water  will  fometimes  give 
immediate  relief:  in  almoft  every  cafe  the  Thebaic 
bnfhire,  or  liquid  laudanuni,  is  the  beft  opiate  that  can 
be  offered  j  in  this  it  may  be  taken,  in  quantity  fi-ooi 
Cen  to  twenty  drops^  once  in  the  twenty*four  hours* 

* 

Ooa  COLIC* 


C    284    1 
COLIC. 

■  ■ 

This  difor4^r  U  varioufljr  denominated,  according  t^ 
its  caufe*  Whrn  an  obftiqate  coftiveneis  and  a  vomi-. 
ting  of  bile  accompany  the  pain  in  the  bowels,  it  is  cal-^ . 
led  a  bilious  Colic  i  if  it  is  attended  with  violent  rum* 
blings  in  the  inteftines,  and  breakii^  of  wind,  it  is  de* 
aonum^ted  a  ^atulent  or  windy  cholic  ^  in  that  ipecies  of 
colic  which  is  faid  to  be  hyileric,  the  fpirits  are  TttMf^ 
kably  deprcfled,  apd  the  n^atter  vomited  up  is  generally 
greenifh  i  and  the  nervous  colic  principally  aiFeAs  thofe 
labourers  and  artificers  who  are  expofed  to  the  fumes  of 
melted  metals  or  minerals.  This  is  the  diforder  which  has 
alfb  taken  the  name  of  the  Devon/hire  colic,  and  hath  b^^n 
attributed  to  leaden  veflels,  conceived  to  be  employed 
ifi  preparmg  cyder ;  a  very  falfe^  miftaken  idea,  as  no 
fuch  are  ever  ufcd  in  the  management  of  that  liquor : 
and  this  colic  may  alfo  be  properly  termed  thtjpa/modic  j  J 
colic. 

FerlOns  qf  wc^  and  tender  conltitutions,  thofe  who 
lead  fedentary  lives,  and  fuch  as  are  frequently  expofed  to 
th^  .dangers  of  getting^ wet  in  the  feet,  are  moft  liable  tQ 
the  colic  ;  though  it  attacks  perfons  of  all  ages  and  ha« 
•  bits  i  and  the  whole  region  of  inteftines,  or  any  part  of 
|t,  may  be  the  feat  of  this  diforder. 

Various  are  the  caufes  by  which  this  difeafe  may  be 
occafioned  :  the  bilious  colic  may  be  produced  by  extra- 
ordinary agitations  of  the  mind,  by  acrid  and  ftimula- 
ting  matter  falling  on  the  bowels,  by  the  bile  or  other 
cxcrcmentitious  matters  being  retained  too  long,  or  ha- 
ving otherwife  loft  the  qualities  of  health.   Tht  JtatuUki 

or 


4^ 


C    O    I.    I    C  I8j. 

gr  windy  colic  may  JU'ifc  fropti  obftrufite4  perfpijration,: 
fix>m  hard  improper  food,  or  from  new  or  fermented  li- 
quors. And  the  nervous  colic  may  be  caufed  by  the 
(imes  of  metals  or  other  poilonoys  mi^tter  inhaled  with 
the  brei^thy  or  by  folutions  of  them  in  the  various  veileht 
which  ^e  CQipmoply  employed  for  the  purpofes  of  the 
Idtdien ;  it  may  i^ib  \>c  occafioned  from  gouty  matter  ' 
diverted  from  its  origixial  fe^t  to  the  inteftines,  by  worms 
or  by  the  obftruftion  of  periodical  or  other  ufual  cvacu-,  * 
ations :  ^nd  this  colic  fe^n)s  ^fo  ii)  many  inftan^es  to 
l}e  of  the  bilious  k|nd^ 

But  from  whatever  caufe  this  diforder  arifes,  the  i^ 
preach  and  progre{sof  itare  nearly  alike;  it  begins  widi 
a  dull  pain,  more  like  a  fenfe  of  preflure  or  weighty  juft 
s^bout  the  pit  of  the  ftomach ;  and  this  is  attended  by 
k>fi  of  appetite,  a  pale  or  yellowifh  cafl  of  countenance- 
jz  lickneis  or  naufea,  and  coftivenefs.  As  the  diieafe  pro- 
*  ceeds,  the  pain  increafes  gradually,  is  felt  in  different 
parts  of  the  belly,  but  at  laft  fixes  about  the  navel,  from- 
whence  it  feems  to  (hoot  and  dart  in  different  diredions^ 
and  wherever  it  is  felt,  leaves  behind  it  extreme  fbrenefij 
the  lickneis  at  the  ftomach  advances  with  the  pain,  and 
at  length  brings  on  a  vomiting,  and  frequently  of  bilious 
matter  i  the  urine  is  leQened  in  quantity ;  and  a  con^* 
flant  occaiion  to  go  to  ftool,  accompanies  the  other 
complaints.  ... 

In  the  bilious  colic,  the  pulfc  is  in  fome  cafes  fbong 
and  quick,  and  the  appearances  of  heat  and  thirfl  denote 
fpvcr  i  the  urine  is  fometimes  pale,  and  at  others  deep  ;• 
the  belly  feems  to  throb  and  beat,  and  is  frequendy  cold  5 
the  vomiting  becomes  by  degrees  fb  frequent  as  to  be 
almost  continual  i  quantities  of  hot,  yellow^  bitter  bile, 

2  are 


W»  C  O  ir  1  C 


dirawii  up>  yet  dib  difcharge  brings?  no  kfting^ 
htfi  and  the  difeaie  frequently  terminates  in  the  iiiae 
p2^on>  or  inflammauon  of  the  bowels. 

The  flatulent  or  windy  ct)lic,  proceeding  fretjtiently 
flam  colds  or  the  obftru£Hon  of  perfpiration^  may  be  re- 
sAoved  in  general  by  whatever  tends  .to  reftore  that;  fiiclr 
i6  rubbing  the  legs  and  feet  with  wdrrn  flannels^  or  im- 
stlerfing  thefe  extremities  in  warm  water ;  the  dtfeharge 
of  wind  may  alfe  be  promoted  by  clyftcrs  of  die  conr-' 
mbn  compoTidonj  by  fmall  dofes  of  the  tiittfhire  of  rim- 
barbj  and  by  frequent  draughts  of  camomile  te^  with  af 
£hr  drops,  of  oil  of  nnint  in  it. 

When  diis  connplaint  proceeds-fixjm  fbmewhat  impro-.^* 
])er  food  or  liqiK>r>  fuch  as  fruit,  vegetables,  four  or  ncW* 
malt  liquor,  or  the  likej  fbme  perfons  recommcml '  a' 
dhon  of  any  good  fpirits,  and  others  with  perhaps  rtk>fi 
pJDpriety,  a  glafs  of- peppermint  water:  the  dangers  of 
bringing  on  inflanunatory  dilbrders  in  the  intdtinesr 
.  fiiould  always  deter  us  from  applying  fpirituous  liquors 
in'  any  confideraUe  quantities  as  remedies  for  diis  difealeV 
we  apprehend  opening  medicines  of  a  compdlltion  tole- 
nibfy  wami,  external  applications  of  warm  flannels  of 
cfaths,  and  the  bath  for  the  legs  and  feet,  or  heatet}^ 
bricks  applied  to  the  latter,  would  in  getlend  be  more 
iafe  ahd  effeftuaL 

For  the  purge,  take  of  the  infufion  of  fefina  leaves; 
two  ounces ;  of  tinfture  of  fenna^  half  an  ouhce :  dif- 
fblve  m  the  infiilion  half  an  ounce  of  fairs.  Give  one 
half^  and  if  this  fails  to  produce  itools  in  two  hours^  let 
the  patient  take  the  remainder. 

Or  die  following;  take  tinfhire  of  rhubarb  and  fim- 
pte  cinnamon  water,  of  each  one  ounce ;  of  the  arom3[- 


COLIC  «8y 

nc  lioAurtj  two  dram$.    Mtfke  a  ^ntught,  dtp  4>e  lal^o 
at  once.  ' 

If  the  pains  are  £>  xiokitt  that  the  patient  can  ob- 
tain no  reft,  and  whore  theiiipprefilon  of  mine  is  con^ 
SdesAlk,  the  following  anody.ne  hath  been  I'ecprn^ 
neoded: 

Take  piire  water>  one  ofimce  i  oil  of  abxiondsj  three 
plains ;  nutmeg  water  and  fyrap  of  msuih-mallowsy  of 
<if.each  twodraim^  <£  tiie  Thebaic  tiq&ure,  or  liquid 
laudanunij  from  five  drops  to  twenty^  according  ip 


«<v%^-.*t 


Perfbna  whofe  digcflive  powers  are  w^ak,  m  mdk 
fut^eft  to  frequent  returns  of  the  flatulent  choiic ;  aid 
to  Aich  we  would  recbminend  die  following  medicine, 
not  only  as  a  preventative,  but  as  a  powerful  and  fpeed^ 

liof  in  choUcal  pains  proceeding  from  wmd  or  indigef- 
%on :  in  the  iomaer  .cafe  it  may  be  taken  to  the  <}qas^ 
lity  of  a  table  fpoonful,  either  in  mmt  water,  (m*  in  an 
iafijfian  of  orange-peel  in  common  water ;  ^en  Aie 
pains  are  violent  the  quanuty  may  be  fomewhat  m^ 
Cfeafed; 

Infiife  an  ounce  of  Columbo  root  powdered,  in  » 
pint  of  good  French  brandy  i  let  it  ftand  feven  dajra^ 
then  pour  it  off  fine. 

In  the  nervous  colic ^  the  cure  fliould  begin  by  cleanip- 
fu^  ;die  flxuxrach  widi  camomile  tea ;  or,  if  necei£ury, 
with  the  aiBflance  of  a  few  grains  of  ipecacuanha. 

After  diedomach  is  wafhed  out,  opiates  fhould  be 
^y^en  in  doles  proportioned  to  circumftances,  and  in 
'paiticular  to  the  violence  of  the  pain  $  but  they  muft 
be  repeated  every  two  or  three  hours,  until  they  procuxr 
41cep  and  fomc  degree  of  eafc#    The  apprchenfion  that 

opium 


<ftSt  COLIC. 

opium  occafioiu  the  paliy>  which  frequently  (uccccds 
this  difeaiej  feems  to  be  erroneous* 

Take  of  pure  watd'^  one  ounce  t  cf  the  Thebaic 
dndure,  or  liquid  laudantim,  twenty  diops  (more  or 
k&)  ^  of  fimple  fyrup^  two  dnuns :  make  a  draught, 
to  be  taken  immediatdy>  and  repeat  it  every  two  or 
three  hours,  as  circumAuces  may  demand.  * 

Or>  make  a  pill  of  one  grain  of  <^ium^  more  or  Icfi^ 
according  to  age,  ftrengch,  and  the  fymptoms;  and  re^ 
peat  as  before.       > .  . 

If  the  pain  refuies  to  yield  to  the  laudanum  fwallowedy 
the  following  clyfter  may  be  adminiftered^  and  repeat^ 
cd  till  it  gives  relief: 

Take  of  olive-oil  warmed,  four  ounces  5  of  liqiiid   ^ 
laudanum,  from  thiity  to  forty  drops ;  1 

And  a  plafler  of  the  following  compofition  may  be^fl 
'applied  to  the  patient's  belly,  about  the  navel.  \. 

Take  of  theriaca  Andromacbi  [vcnice  treacle]  and  of  ' 
fpecies  aromatic^e,  of  each  two  drams;  of  expreflcd  oil  of' 
-mace,  one  fcruple :  make  a  plaften 

As  foon  as  the  pains  are  abated  by  the  ufe  of  opiates^ 
then  gentle  purges,  and  fuch  as  operate  with  the  fmalleft 
irritation,  fhould  be  given  ;  fuch  as 

Common  infufion  of  fenna,  one  ounce ;  bitter  purg- 
ing falts,  two  drams ;  fyrup  of  ginger,  one  dram  and 
^alf.  Make  a  draught,  to  be  repeated  every  two  houit 
till  it  takes  cfFeft. 

•  But  where  caftor  oil  can  be  procured,  it  is  certainly 
preferable,  both  on  account  of  die  certointyof  its  opera- 
tion, and  becaufe  it  will  not  require  to  be  fo  frequendy 
repeated^ 

Take 


col!    C.  1S9 

Take  of  caftor  oil,  mixed  with  yolk  of  egg,  one 
ounce i  peppermint  water,  half  an  ounce;  nutmeg  wateiv 
two  drams :  mix  and  make  a  draught. 

If  the  caftor  oil  is  not  to  be  had,  one  dram  of  cream 
of  tartar,  or  half  a  dram  of  precipitated  fulphur,  may 
be  given  every  hour  or  two,  until  ftools  are  procured ; 
and  when  a  paffage  is  once  obtained,  laxative  medicines 
muft  ftill  be  continued,  till  all  danger  is  removed. 

One  ounce  in  powder  of  the  Columbo  root,  mfufed 
a  fhort  time  in  boiling  water,  fufFering  it  to  fettle,  and 
then  pouring  it  off  fine,  may  be  of  ufe  to  check  the 
vomiting,  and  relieve  the  ficknefs,  in  the  beginning  of 
this  difeafe ;  and  it  is  faid,  that  the  fmoke  of  tobacco 
conveyed  into  the  bowels  hath  occaConed  ftools,  when 
all  other  means  have  been  tried  unfuccefsfully. 

The  paralytic  complaints  which  frequendy  remain 
after  the  removal  of  this  colic,  are  in  general  relieved  by 
the  ufe  of  Bath  waters ;  but  thofe  whofe  circumftances 
and  fituation  will  not  admit  of  this  remedy,  may  ufe  an 
embrocation,  connpofed  of  Barbadoes  tar  diftblved  in 
rum,  to  rub  the  (pine  at  leaft  twice  every  day ;  and  for 
the  like  purpofe  any  ftrong  fpirits  or  aromatic  oils  may 
alio  be  applied  in  the  fame  manner.  After  this  difeafe^ 
the  bark  and  exercife  on  horfcback  may  be  neccfTary  to 
reftore  the  patient's  ftrength,  which  generally  fuffers 
confiderably. 

In  the  bilious  colic ^  if  the  pulfe  is  full,  and  the  paina 
violent,  accompanied  with  fever,  it  may  be  neceffary  to 
begin  the  cure  by  bleeding ;  but  this  muft  be  direftcd^ 
as  well  as  the  quantity  of  blood  to  be  tal^en  away,  by  the 
the  flrength  and  fityation  of  the  patients 

Vow  I,  .   P  p  It 


1290  C    O    L    I    G. 

It  may  alio  be  nep eflary  to  order  emollient  clyfters, 
and  diluting  liquors  to  be  taken  plentifully ;  thefe  may 
be  acidulated  with  lemon  juice,  cream  of  tartar,  or  ta- 
maripdsi  and  gentle  laxatives,  fuch  as  manpa  in  thin 
chicken  brqth,  or  the  like,  m^y  be  frequently  adoiir 

niilered- 

Warm  baths  arc  ftrongly  recommended  by  ibmc^ 
and  by  others  they  are  thought  to  be  rather  injurious 
than  beneficial ;  certain  it  is,  that  they  ^fFord  tempo- 
rary relief,  but  diis  feldom  continues;  and  until  thp 
bowels  are  evacuated  of  the  offending  contents,  it  can 
|iardly  be  expedbed  to  be  lafting. 

Jf  in  this  coli^  the  vomiting  fhould  be  violent,  and 
other  attempts  to  reflxain  it  Ihould  prove  ipeffcctu^ 
al,  falinc  draughts,  given  in  the  moment  of  fermenting 
or  during  the  boiling  wl^ich  the  niixture  occafions,  may 
be  of  ufe,  but  a  few  drops  of  liquid  laudanum  fhould  b^ 
added  to  each  draught  -,  and  a  plaft^r  pf  Mithridate  or 
Venice  treacle,  or  the  leaves  of  garden-mint  boiled  i^i 

?ort  wine,  may  be  applied  to  the  pit  of  the  ftomach ; 
and  clyfters,  with  Venice  treacle^  or  from  t^ycnty  to 
thirty  drops  of  liquid  laudanum  in  each,  may  be  fre- 
quently injefted. 

When  a  palfagc  hath  been  procured^  the  bowel? 
emptied,  and  the  pain  abated,  the  fgllowing  draught 
is  recommended: 

Take  of  fimple  min^  water,  one  ounce;  of  fpirituous 
cinnamon  water,  half  an  ounce ;  of  frclh  lemon-juice, 
half  an  ounce ;  fait  of  wormwood,  and  the  exordial  con- 
feftion,  of  each  a  fcruple;  fyrup  of  faffron,  one  dram. 
Make  a  draught,  to  be  taken  every  eight  liourj,  and  add 

from 

•      • 

I 


C    O    JL    I    C.  JS91 

from  five  to  twenty  drops  of  liquid  laudanum,  if  the 
pains  continue  troublefome. 

The  byfteric  cotrc  in  fome  inftances  relembles  the  bi- 
lious colic,  beginning  with  violent  pains  in  the  ftomach, 
accompanied  with  exceffive  vomitings  of  yellow  or  green 
matter,  and  .a  great  depreflion  of  Ipirits.  Women,  and 
thofc  of  grols  or  relaxed  habits,  are  moft  liable  to  the 
attacks  of  this  difeafe,  the  pain  of  which  fometimes  goes 
entirely  off  for  many  days,  and  then,  returns  with  in- 
creafed  violence.  A  difficulty  of  breathing  fometimes 
attends  this  diforder,  and  in  other  cafes  the  jaundice, 
which,  however,  feldom  continues  many  days,  but  va- 
ni(hes  of  its  own  accord,  and  without  the  aiSftance  of 
particular  medicines. 

Bleeding,  purging,  and  all  other  evacuations,  arc 
faid  to  be  prej\idicial  in  this  ipecies  of  colic,  except  in 
cafes  of  very  fanguine  habits,  or  robuft  conflitutions, 
where  it  occafions  a  confiderable  degree  of  fever ;  yet 
if  the  vomiting  fhould  continue  violent,  it  may  be  nc- 
ceflary  to  wafti  out  the  ftomach  with  whey,  carduus 
tea,  fmall  poffet,  or  the  like. 

After  the  ftomach  is  cleanfed,  fmall  dofes  of  liquid 
laudanum  may  be  taken  in  any  (imple  water,  once 
every  four,  fix,  or  eight  hours,  or  to  the  quantity  of 
twenty  or  twenty-five  drops,  to  be  repeated  at  the  end 
of  twelve  hours. 

Or  the  following: — Take  half  in  ounce  of  manna, 
and  diflblve  in  two  ounces  of  water ;  add  of  oil  of  al- 
monds, half  an  ounce  s  of  liquid  laudanum,  ten  drops. 
Make  a  draught  to  be  repeated  every  fi}*  hours. 

Afafcetida  in  pills  is  alfo  recommended,  and  tine  • 

P  p  2  turc 


^9^  COLIC. 

ture  of  caftor,  to  the  quantity  of  a  tea-fpoonful,  in  a 
glafs  of  the  infufion  of  penny-royal. 

But  the  ule  of  opiates  muft  be  continued  till  the  fymp-r 
toms  are  intirely  gone^  increafing  the  diftances  between, 
the  dofes ;  and  after  the  removal  of  the  diibrder^  the 
ftomach  and  bowels  may  be  ftrengthened>  and  the  re- 
ftoratipn  of  health  completed^  by  the  bark  and  aro- 
matic bitters,  taken  in  proper  quantities  daily,  the  pa- 
tient at  the  fame  time  enjoying  the  benefit  of  good  air, 
and  moderate  exercife  on  horfeback. 

To  prevent  colical  complaints,  thofe  who  are  lub- 
jeft  to  pains  in  the  bowels  fhould  avoid  as  much  as 
poffible  agitations  o(  the  fpirits  and  violent  exertions  ; 
fhould  be  careful  not  to  expofe  themfclves  to  northern 
blafts  of  wind,  or  to  extreme  and  fudden  vicifHtudes  of 
heat  and  cold  5  they  fhould  keep  their  feet  warm  and 
dry,  or  change  their  fhoes  and  ftockings  immediately^ 
in  cafe  of  their  accidentally  becoming  wet  5  they  fhould 
abftain  from  windy  food  and  fpirituous  liquors,  and 
from  all  excefs  cither  of  eating  or  drinking.  Thofe 
tvho  are  by  their  employments  fubjcdted  to  the  fumes 
of  lead,  or  to  the  influence  of  any  preparations  from 
that  metal,  fhould  eat  fat  and  oily  food,  or  even  take  a 
table-fpoonful  of  oil  in  the  morning,  before  they  enter 
on  the  bufmefs  of  the  day,  with  which  fbme  rccom-  ^ 
mend  the  mixture  of  a  fmall  portion  of  brandy,  or  other 
fpirits ;  and  all  thofe  who  have  once  fufFered  in  either 
of  the  diflFerent  colics  which  we  have  defcribed,  fhquld 
guard  againft  returns,  by  taking  the  earlieft  precautions, 
keeping  the  body  open  by  laxatives  and  emollient 
clyflers,  applying  fomentations  and  bladders  of  warm 
water^  and  bathing  the  legs  and  feet^  on  the  firfl  notice 

of 


COMFITS.  a^i 

of  wxf  complaint  in  the  bowels.  In  the  firft  ftages  of 
chefe  dilbrders  they  may  very  frequently  be  removed  un-^ 
der  fuch  management,  but  fufFcred  to  proceed,  they  Toon 
poiSeis  themfelves  of  the  vital  parts,  too  ftrongly  to  btf 
expelled ;  and  we  may  venture  to  lay,  that  more  livw 
are  facrificcd  to  inattention  and  ne^ed  in  thcfe  difor* 
ders,  than  in  any  other  clafc  of  thofe  numerous  maladiea* 
by  which  the  complicated  and  tender  frame  of  the  hu- 
man machine  is  liable  to  be  difcompofed,  difordered^ 
and  deftroyed. 


COLLARING. — See  Beef,  Mutton,  Brawn,  &c* 


C  O  L  L  O  P  S.— See  Veau 


COLOUR!  NG. — See  Cokfectionjirv. 


COMFITS. 

Whatfocver  your  feeds  are,  let  them  be  dry;  for  every 
two  ounces  of  feeds  ufe  a  pound  of  fine  fugar  beaten  j 
except  anifeeds,  for  which  ufe  but  half  the  quantity. 

At  die  beginning  of  this  work  put  into  the  bafon  half 
a  pint  of  water,  and  a  pound  and  a  half  of  fugar,  or 
proportionable  according  to  your  quantity  of  feeds; 
ftir  it  wcU  together  till  the  fugar  is  ^vet,  then  boil 
it  gendy  till  die  fugar  will  rope  fi-om  the  ladle  like 
lurpenrinc,  and  dicn  it  is  enough.  But  keep  it  warm 
OTer  warm  embers,  that  it  may  run  freely  in  a  ropy  way 

from 


«94  COMFITS* 

fiom  the  ladle  upon  the  feeds.  When  this  is  ready^ 
move  the  feeds  briflcly  in  the  bafbn^  flinging  on  them 
half  a  ladlefuU  of  hot  iugar  at  a  time^  keeping  conftant- 
ty  moving  die  feeds  for  feme  time^  which  will  make  them 
cake  the  fugar  the  better,  and  be  fure  to  dry  them  well 
after  every  covering,  by  moving  the  bafon  and  ftirring 
the  comfits* 

Thus  you  may  fugar  feeds  to  the  quantity  of  three 
pounds  of  comfits  in  an  hour's  time.  You  are  continu- 
ally to  keep  cafling  fugar  on  them  till  they  are  as  large 
as  you  would  have  them,  and  dry  them  well  after  every 
coating  of  fugar. 

If  you  would  have  your  comfits  ragged  or  rough, 
make  the  fugar  fo  liquid  that  will  run  from  the  ladle, 
and  let  it  fall  upon  the  feeds  half  a  yard  high.  Let  it 
alfo  be  very  hot,  for  the  hotter  the  fugar  is  the  rougher 
the  comfits  will  be.  Put  on  at  each  time,  but  only  one 
ladleflill  of  fugar,  and  repeating  this  ten  times,  the  com- 
fits will  be  cooled  perfeftly.  The  melted  fugar  ought 
not  to  be  too  hot  nor  too  thick  at  firfl  for  plain  comfits ; 
nor  hold  not  the  ladle  too  high  in  pouring  it  on  the 
feeds  i  but  the  laft  two  or  three  coverings  may  be  thick- 
er and  hotter. 

As  for  coriander  feeds  which  are  large,  a  quarter  of  a 
pound  of  them  will  take  up  three  pounds  of  fugar. 

While  you  arc  at  TX'ork,  you  mufl  take  care  to  keep 
the  melted  fugar  in  good  temper,  that  it  may  not 
gather  into  lumps  or  burn  to  the  bottom  of  the  pan ; 
if  you  perceive  it  to  grow  too  thick  at  any  time,  put  to 
it  a  Ipoonful  or  two  of  water,  flirring  it  gendy  now  and 
then  with  your  ladle,,  and  let  the  fire  be  kept  very  clear 
under  the  pan. 

When 


COMPLEXION.  «9$ 

When  the  comfits  arc  finifhed,  lay  them  on  papers  in 
difhcs,  and  either  fet  them  before  the  fire  or  in  a  cool 
oven,  this  will  make  them  ^  white  as  fiiow;  and  wh<rn 
they  arc  cool  put  them  either  ip  cryft^l  glaffes  or  boxes, 
and  keep  them  clofe  itopt  frqm  thp  ^ir  and  in  a  dry 
place. 

They  may  be  coloured  with  any  of  the  preparation^ 
^cfcribed  under  the  htzd/ConfeSionary. 


COMPLEXION. 

,  Tho*  in  the  Preface  to  this  work  we  have,  widi  equaj 
juftice  and  feverity,  Ipoken  againft  the  pernicious  prac- 
pce  of  paintingy  it  was  by  no  means  our  wilji  to  lay 
reftriftions  on  fuch  methods  of  improving  the  com- 
plexion, as  ^.re  innocent,  and  conliftent  with  health.  The 
beauty  of  the  (kin  depends  upon  a  great  variety  of  cau- 
fcs  J  of  which  the  teipper^ture  of  the  air  and  the  mode 
of  living  are  not  the  leaft  confiderable  j  to  thefe  may 
be  joined  the  Paflions.  Griefi  fear,  jealoufy  and  love 
itfelf,  has  often  withered  the  complexion ;  tvtn  too  long 
a  continuance  in  a  maiden  (late  may  diminilh  the  charms 
of  beauty,  and  change  them  into  a  pale  aiid  greenifli 
hue, 

^cfor^  we  give  any  preparations  fo/  aflifting  natural 
beauty,  it  is  neceflary  to  obferve,  that  there  is  a  mate- 
rial difference  in  the  qualities  of  the  fimple  and  com- 
pound liquids  for  wafliing  the  face  ^  nothing  is  more 
common  than  to  recommend  milk  and  Hungary  water 
indifcriminately  i  and  yet  it  is  evident,  from  the  very 
ixaturc  of  thcfc  lotions,  that  they  ad  in  a  manner  dircft^ 

If 


^9^  [C  O  M  P  L  E  X  I  O  N, 

ly  oppolite  to  each  other,  and  rribft  accordingly  produce 
very  different  effefts.    Milk  is  endowed  with  a  foftening 
relaxing  quality,  and  can  only  be  of  advantage  where 
the  (kin  is  rough  and  dry,  and  has  fuffered  from  the  in- 
juries either  of  extreme  hot  or  cold  air ;  whereas,  on  the 
contrary,  Hungary  water,  and  all  thofe  waters  which 
have  any  thing  Ipirituous  in  their  compofition,  are  of  a 
hardening  and  aftringent  quality,   and  muft  aftually 
prove  detrimental  in  fuch  circumftances  as  require  ap- 
plications of  the  oppofite  kind.     In  order  then  to  form 
a  judgment,  when  milk  and  the  cooling  lotions  on  one 
hand,  or  thofe  of  the  fpirituous  kind  on  the   other, 
are  moft  proper  for  beaudfying  die  complexion,  we 
would  lay  it  down  as  a  general  rule,  that  wherever  the 
ikin  is  fmooth  and  fbft,  the  blemiihes  of  the  face  will  be 
beft  removed,  and  the  complexion  preferved  clearcftji 
by,  the  moderate  ufe  of  the  hotter  kind  of  waters  j  but 
where  the  (kin  is  dry  and  rough,  milk,  and  eljpeciaHy 
the  compofition  called  virgin's  milk,  will  be  moft  fuc- 
ecfsful.  Another  rule  whereby  we  may  determine  pret- 
ty juftly  the  preference  of  thefe  applicationsi  is,  by  con- 
fidering  the  particular  conftitution  of  the  perfon,  to 
which  the  texture  of  the  (kin  is  generally  correfpondent : 
thus  a  perfon  who  is  young  and  vigorous,  will  reap 
greater  benefit  from  the  foftening,  than  the  fpirituoui^ 
wafhes  j  while  the  contrary  will  be  the  effedt  in  one  of 
an  oppofite  conftitution.     Thofe  of  a  blooming  com- 
plexion will  alfo  generally  be  more  injuried  by  hot  than 
cooling  lotions ;  though  the  cafe  will  be  different  with 
pc6ple  who  are  pale.   To  determine  the  matter  with  ftill 
more  certainty,  if  the  face  is  moift  and  fweaty  in  the 
morning ;  or  if,  after  wafliing  it  with  water,  the  towel 

with 


r 


Withwhich.lt  is  rubbed*  appears  more--than  coftiittohl]^ 
foul/*  we '  may  ccMitlude  ilife  flcin  to  be  df .  a  'rekxed  tex- 
turej  and  that,  in  fuch  a  conftitution, 'the  fpHtuous  bi* 
aftringent  applications  will  be  more  proper  than  th'ofe 

ivhJch  are  Ibftening.  At  firft,  hbweVef^  *'e  would  advife 

•  •  ....  . 

a  cautious  t&  of  the  former,  and  td  dilute  therh  by  th<! 

•      •  •  »  • 

addition  of  a  little  water,  that  they  may  not  ftop  the'^per- 
Ipiratiojt,  arid  thereby^ot  only  ii9tiii%'*^'complexioni 
but  pftiduce  more  fatal  confequences :  and  wh^thet"  you 
have  recourfe  to  the  Ibftehing  or  fpifituous  waflies,  you 
ought  to  continue  the  ufc  of  them  no  linger  "Aan  till 
the  ilat^  of  the  ftiri  h  rectified,  as  othcrwifc  you  might 
incur  the  oppofitd  lafxtf em*. '  On  this'atcolint,  it  would 
be  prbpcr  to  dil<xM)tinue  the  life  of  them  for  a  few^ays, 
now  aikl  th«n^  in*6rd*'^  obftrv^  what  efFeft  has  been 
produced  \  -and  if  you  find  that  the  -Ikin  is  altered,  you- 
•  ought  either  to  lay  thfiti  entirely  afide,  ot  only  ufe  them 
fparingly,  and  on  particular  occafions. 
-  Among  all  the  tk>t^ns  invented  for  tlie  afliftance'  of 
beauty,  nothing  fij^aps  cianexdecd  the  uie  of  fim^e 
fimperntl  «;^/^r,"which'iSl*fo  fovereign  a  beautifier  of  the 
Conn^lexioh,  as^^ to^^dferVe i  pkce'brt'crery  lady's  toileti^ 
it  is  quickly  prepared,  by  only  infofing  half  a  handful 
tS  tflis ''hcifc  in' a' quart^of  water,  letting  it  (hnd  all 
night*    It  hnay  be  ufed' 'a.  little  warmifhj  but  never 

A  very-de^hftdfiifefic 'fe  made  by' taking  equal' 
parts  of  gunv  BefajatMit  Wid  ftbrax/  and  diflblving  them 
in  a  firfBcicht  qiiahtitybf'  Ipiifit  of  wine,  the  fpirifwiU 
thence  bccbme  a*  ittddiih'  tinfhire,  atid  exhale  a  very 
fragrant  fmellr  A  ^w  drops  of  it  put  in  a  glafi  bf 

Vol.  !•  -        Qjq         water/ 


^fnuff,  nil)  ioft^y  become  milky.  Many  ladies  ufr 
it  iuccei^Uiy^  jto  dear  the  coinplciuopt  tlMUi  which  nor 
tbiog  (^n  be  more  fafe  or  innocent. 

It  mny  not  h^  improper  to  obierve,  that  all  ofid  aw) 
$km«OHt  Iptiona  and  beautificrs  are  pernicious  enenuea 
tp  the  ikin>  iMid  very  loon  bring  on  wiinkles. 

Pn  Gook>  pf  Leighj  recommends  the  fiibjoined  pne* 
fcrippon^^asa  £|fe  and  exceUent;  cofinetic  btioji,  which 
will  fet  off  the  countenance  co  the  beft  advants^  by 
tendering  an  ordinary  one  beautiful^  and  an  handibme 
9Pf  ^pfK>re  iau 

^  Boil  two  quarts  of  fok  wator  pi|  fgiur  (HUices  of  pure 
qfiyckfikrert  in  ^  earthen  pifdcinu  lUl  half  the  wat^  if 
Wi^ed;  then  ppur  th?  water,  ^th  quickiilver  aod  sdlj 
lato  JL  bottle,  to  be  ready  for  yfe.  Wit^  a  fioip  chsh 
4ip|>cid  i(i(o  a  little  of  tlw  4eco6Mffii  ^Ka&  the  fii^cc  two 
V  diree  dtn^^  a  we^lc  in  a  Qipmiiigj  after  having  walked 
as  uflial  with  frelh  water. 

<^  It  ^ves^  fne  hf&re  to  the  ikiQ>  4Qd  deanfes  it  of 
^  l^^nds.of  foij}|}efi|  as  fcu^i  infeA^j  morphiewsj,  &;Ci 
and  is  perfedJy  innocent:  it  may  b^  drank  freel]^;^;^ 
Ipec^fic  agnv^t  W9^Wh  and  ag^nft  ^  ^utaneQus  erup^ 
ttons«'' 

:  yf.h^  ^  complexion  is  natun^y  bp>xpH  pjdc;,  ^ 
tawny,  th^re  is  ooj^ffibilky  of  ch^ngpng  it  thoiroughlys 
all  that  can  be  done^  is  to  have  recourfe  to  palliatives^ 
not  to  paifitsii  which  in  the  end  produce  a  real  defor- 
ifncjf,  but  tt>.  walhes  and  cgn^poTi/^Dm^j  whi(;h  are  at  le^ 
entif  dy  harmlefs^  iuch  zk  rofe,  plantane,  or  piinpemd 
m^i  w^oer  made  with  bran,  9a^m»l,  jfcsfc^mcaJt^ 
powder  of  bitter  almonds,  barley  water^  and  fuch  limplf» 
^ccparyitigns,  from  which  there  is  nothing  to  fear, 

Impe- 


C  O  M  F  L  E  X  I  O  M.  099 

Imperial  WAtsR.  Take  fitre quarts  of  brandy,  or 
]VOof  ipirtty  in  which  diflblye  of  fbrikinccnfe^  nnffiic» 
benjamin,  and  gum  arable,  each  one  qimces  clovetf 
and  nuitmegs,  half  an  6tince  3  ptnerntit  kerntis  and 
iwcet  aimonds,  each  an  ounce  and  half;  to  thdb  add 
a  few  grains  of  mufk,  or  any  other  perfume  you  pkafer 
hniiie  them  very  well  in  a-marble  mortar,  then'  put 
thenr  into  a  gla&  bocde  with  die  brandy,  flBdELing'tAenf 
fiecpiently  during  a  week  $  after  which  kt  it  fett^,  and 
decant  for  nk.  When  applied  to  the  fkr,  dihateir 
widi  pimpernel,  or  rofe  waten 

This  is  faid  to  take  away  wrinkles,  render  the  flciir 
delicate,  and  fweeten  tfaebreadi.  The  diftilled  waters* 
of  fennel  and  white  lilies,  with  a  litde  gum  maftic,  will 
admirably  clear  the  complexion. 

A  Fluid  m  cbar  a  tanned  Jkift.  Soak  unripe  grapes 
in  water,  iprinkle  them  with  alumi  and  fait,  then  wrap 
diem  up  in  paper,  and  roaft  ^emin  hbt  afhes;  i^ueeze 
out  the  juice,  wafix  die  face  with  it  every'  niornmgi  and'' 
it  win  ibon  rettiorethe  tan« 

Another  very  elegant  Wn/h;    Take  barief  water  itrain^  * 
ed  through  a  fine  linen  cloth  1  drop  into  it  a  few  drops^ 
dT  bakn  of  Gilead,'  and  fhake  the  bottle  for  ibme  dme, 
dB  the  balfam  is-  incorporated  with  the  water,  which 
will  be  known  by  its  turbid,  milky  appearance.    T^his 
greatly  improves  the  complexion,  and  prefervcs  the 
Ifloom  of  youth,  if  only  ufed  once  a  day  for  a  continu- 
ance.   Before  this  fluid  is  ufed,  the  face  IhouW  be ' 
walhad  dean  with  common  water. 

Gold  Cr^am  for  the  Complexion.  Take  virgia' 
war  and  Ipcrmaceti,  of  each  a' dram  j  oil  of  fweet 
«Jmqnd$i  ^wo  ounces  i  iprihg  water^  an  ounce  and  half « 

Q^q  Z  melt 


300         CQNFECTIONA^HY. 

melt  the  wax  «nd  fpermaceti '  together  in  the  oil  of 
almonds,  in  a  glazed  earthen  pipkin,  over  hot  afhes,  or 
in  a  vapour  bath ;  po\ir  the  folution  into  a  marble  mor^ 
tar,  and  ftii'  it  till  it  'grows  cold  and  quite  fmooth;  then 
mix  the  •  water  gradually,  and  ^  keep  ftirring  till  the 
whole  is  incorporated.  ^ 

:  This  pomatum  becomes  extremely  white  and  light 
by  the  agitation,  and  much  refcmbles  cream,  from  the 
fimilitude  to  \diichit  has  obt^ned  its  name.  It  is  an 
exceilent  cofmetic,  rendering  the  ikin  fnuxsth. and.  deli- 
cate: its  fragrance  may  be  improved  by  ufing  rofe 
water  or  orange  flower  water,  inftead  of  Ipring  water  ^ 
or  with  a  few  drops  of  any  eflence,  as  fancy  dire^te. 


'       '  CoKltECTION  ARY. 

This  branch  .qf.,p\^«7  knowledge  includes  ^he 
whole  art  <f£.  candying j  drying.^  and.  preferylng  fruits,-^ 
making  comfit s^  cakes y  creams^  defer tSy  or  ornament  fon 
eQtertainmciitSt  &.c.  -which  fcci  under  their  refpeOaye 
heads. 

The  colo^^$  uicd    in  confedkiopary  are  chiefly  the* 
red,  blue,  yellow,  and  grecn^  or  Ihades  nrjade  by  a  mix- 
ture of  them. 

The  reJ  colour.  Boil  an  ounce  of  cochineal  in  half 
a  pint  of  water,, for  about  five  minutes,  then  add  half  an « 
ounce  of  creaiyi  of  tj^ar,  ajid  half  ^n  ounce  of  pounded, 
alum  i  boil  on  a  flow  fire  ab.out  as  long  again.  It  i%.- 
e^fily  known  to  ,h^,  done . by.  dipping  a  pen  intp  it;  if 
it  writes  freely  like  ink,  and  keeps  its  colour^  it  is  done  i. 
teke  it  oflTthe  fire,  add  two  ounces  of  fugar,  and  let  it 

fetde  i 


CONSERVES.  501 

fcttle;  pouf  the  flear  ofiT^  to  keep  in  a  botde  wdl 
ftoppra* 

7%r  Uue  colour.  This  is  Qoly  made  for  the  prefent 
ufe.  Put  a  little  warm  water  intq  a  plate^  and  rub  an 
indigo  ftone  in  it  tiU  the  colour  is  come  to  the  tint  yon 
fould  have  itj  >irhether  pale  or  deep  blue. 

The  yellow  colour.  This  is  done  in  the  lame  manner^ 
Iff  pouring  a  little  water  into  a  plate>  zpd  rubbing  it  with 
^  bit  of  gambpge;  but  W9y  be  done  better  with  yellow 
lily;  ta)ce  the  heart  of  the  (iQVfery  infufe  it  in  milH^wann 
Vater,  and  preferye  it  in  a  bottle  well  (topped. 

The  green  colour^  Trim  the  leaves  of  ipinach^  boil 
them  a  moment  in  water^  and  drain  theni  very  Well  (x> 
pound;*  lift  the  juice  in  a  lieve  for  uic 

« 

Of  thefe  cardinal  colours^  you  may  make  any  alteration 
\^  imitatipn  of  p^inters^  by  mixing  tq  what  Ihadq 
you  pleale ;  but  tafte  and  fancy  mutl  be  your  guide 
ypon  thofe  occafions. 


CONSERVES, 

Theie  are  compofitlons  of  frefh  vegetables  or  fruits, 
bfaten  together  with  fugar  into  a  ma(s.  In  the  prepa- 
^don  of  conierves,  the  leaves  or  flowers  are  carefully 
picked  from  the  ftalks^^  and  beat  in  a  marble  mortar 
with  a  wooden  peltle  into  a  fmooth  n[iafs ;  after  which 
thrice  their  weight  of  double-refin^  fugar  is  added  by 
^egreesj  and  the  beating  continued  till  they  are  uni« 
formly  mixed.  The  fugar  Ihouki  be  powdered  by 
jtfdf^  and  pafied  through  a  fieve  be^re  it  is  mixed  with 

the 


i 


509  CONSERVES. 

the  vegetables.    Orange  ^l  ai«d  fimilaf  artktes  fhauld^ 
be  rafpcd  or  grated  oflF  from  the  fruit. 

A  Conserve  of  Cherries.  Stone  the  cherries,  and  boil 
Acm  a  moment ;  pwt  Aem  dirough  a  ficve>  and  rcdvtce' 
iStt  jvAcc  on  a  flow  fire  till  it  comes*  to  a  pretty  tliick: 
marmalades  add  the  proportion  of  a  quarter  of  a  pound' 
to  a  pound  of  ftigar* 

Conserve  of  red  Rofes,  or  any  ofherjhwer.  Piefc  tofe 
buds j  or  any  other  flowers  j  cut  off  the  white  part  from 
fKe  red,  and  put  the  red*  flowers  through  a  fieve,  to  take- 
out  the  feeds  5  then  weigh  them,  and  to  every  pound  of 
flowers,  take  two  pounds  and' a  half  of  Ibaf-fligar;  beaf 
fhe  flowers  pretty  fine  in'  a  flone  mortar,  then-  by  de- 
grees put  the  fugar  to  diem,  and  beat  it  very  well  dip 
it  is  well  incorporated  tjogedicrj  then  put  it  into  galli* 
pots,  tie  it  over  with  paper,  and  over  diat  a  leather,  and^ 
jIt  will  keep  fev^n  years* 

In  the  fame  manner  are  made  confcrves  in  general^ 

Conserve  of  Scurvy  Grafs  retains  its  virtue  a  long 
time,  and  may  be  given  three  or  four  times  a  day  in 
|corbutic  habits. 

Conserve  of  Mnt  is  given  io  weakn^s  of  the  fto- 
xnach,  and  retching  to  vomit.  . 

CoNSER vr  of  Rtff  is*  excellent  in  promoting  digeftion^ 
and  in  hyfl:eric  diforders :  takei\  in  a  morning,  it  is  a 
prefervativc  againft  infeflBotis  air; 

Conserve  of  Oranges  is  a.  pleafant  warm  ftom^chic. 

Co!«f SERVE  of  Hips  v&  good  in  bilious  fluxes,  and  hot' 
indifpofitions  of  the  ftbmach  ;  but  care  ipuft'be  takeix 
in  the  majcing,  thsft  none  of  the  prickly  feeds  are  miwd, 
wicK  it,  as  they  wtil  occ^cii  vtomitifig.  , 


(    303    )     • 

t  « 

CONSUMPTION* 

Though  this  diibrder  malues  k»  GA  q^peirancv  m 
Ae  ^i^  of  a  cq]4jf€t  the  origiAal  cauics  maybe  more 
mnoce  ;  fuch  as  an  ho^^kary  difpofition,  weak  hmgs^ 
fdaxed  fibres^  an  iU  figure  or  con£;>nnation  of  fh^ 
\m&j  cur  of  th/Qlk  paru  whifh  it  contaiosi  ^  narrow 
and  flat  che((a  ak>ngiiedc^or  defontutypf  bodyt  what« 
prcr  tends  to  inflame  the  breaft^  or  vitiate  the  humourst 
muft  likewifc  be  cQnfidered  amongft  ii|e  caufi^^con* 
AnnpdbQa. 

Damp  beds>  rpoais^  and  hou(e$ ;  wee  feet,  ni^t  air, 
and  a  fedentary  or  coniined  cpurle  of  Ufe^  di^>ole  xht 
body  to  be  liable  to  coIds9  which  are  frequently  ^ 
fiuenmnersy  if  not  the  cauies  of  coAlumpcions, 

This  difeaie  has  been  al£>  held  tp  be  infedtioua;  at 
an;  r^u;^  it  will  be  always  advifabk  to  avoid  fieeping 
mh  tb^  ii^k^  which^  without  being  of  any  advantage  c^ 
dhf^^tiient^  may  probably  endanger  the  healthy. 

Anoth^  cavie  ia  the  fuckliia^  of  chiklren  linger  than 
die  nx>ther's  flrength  will  allow ;  a  cafe  which  oftev 
occuisjn  the  middJiipg  cUflb  of  fife^  and  ia  tti^der  and 
^dicace  cpfiftitutions>  whore  prompted  by  maiernat, 
lei4eroeftj  or  a  defire  to  difcharge  this  d^  ia  it^ 
fidkft  cttecu;,.  they  give  the  breaft  t»  the  infant  tiU  theic: 
<»mi  h<a|(h  is  impsuFcd;  4nd  in  fuch  a  Ikuation  the 
ilightefl:  crold.  occaikms  a  cough»  whiqht  fmn  hrings^  09 
a  cQofun^tion  i  t^hedifeifct  istpo  ofuii»  communicated 
M  the  qhildj  cpd  thus  the  lives  of  both  n(iay  be  £ict;ir 

Seed  tQ  n^iftakw.  and  over-a^Wd  afiir^n. 

From 


f 


e  •  • 


^4  CO  N  SU  M  P  T  I  O  N. 

From  fifteen  to  thirty-five  is  the  time  of  life  mofl 
fubjeft  to  con^mpiiops;  the  bipod  is  then  in  its  greateft 
fervour^  and  the  lungs  difpofed  to  be  afiefted  hj  all  oi* 
any  of  die  caufcs  we  haire  juft  mentioned.^ 
'    The  fymptoms  of  this  difeafe  are,  a  cough,  by  whiclk 
the  lungs  arc  firft  lacerated  or  torn,  »id  theii  ufcerated  "5 
*«  fever  particularly  troublefome  in  th4  night,  when  the 
cough  alfo  comes^  oh  with  increafed' violence  tfpittin^ 
of  blood,  ficknefe,  and  an  ihdination  to  vomidng  after 
eating  ;^  continual  heat,  pain,   and*  oppreflion  of  thfc 
brcaft ;  lofs  of*  appetite,  =  deprcfliOn  of  fpirits,  inadkivity 
and  reftlefnefs ;  the  Ipittie  is  of  a  faltilh,  difagrccaWe, 
•  and  oflFcnfive  t^e ;  die  pulfe  ibft  atid  fmall,  but  gcne- 
raHy  quick  5    and^  the  voice  becomes  fhrill,   yet  lofe 
its- Iwcetnefs.     -  '-  '  v         ' 

In  the  laift  ftages  of  ^conftimptl6ris;  theflngers  bc- 
cortie  fmall  and  ^  remarkably-  taper,  die  nails  lofe  their 
cl^icity,  and  being  bent  imvjirtJ,  Wtain 'that  pofition  5 
the  hair  begins  to  fall  ofF,  die  legs^  and  feet  fwdl,  tfifc 
eyes  become  dimy  and  a  difficulty  of  Iwallowitigy  and 
coklneis  of  the  extremities,  givetbkfens  of  approaicliing 
ocatn.         ■    "  .  ,    .  » 

Yet  under  the  preffure  of  fo  matty  fymptoms  of  mor- 
tality, confumptlvefjatieftte  are- frequcndy cheerful  in 
the  intervals  of  feKer  or  pain;  send  the  reifniffions  of  the 
cough,  and'coDfii^y  flatter  diernftlves  with  the  pleai^ 
ing  hope  of  ^recovery.  In  <^onAimptions  die  decay  firft 
afiefting  die « fleihy '  and  muftular  |^rts,  proceeds  io 
gradually  as  4fearfee  to  darm  th^  mind,  *and  die  patient 
often  lingers  on  to  the  laft*  ftage  of  the  difeafe  before  he 
entertains  the-  feafl:  apprehehfion  of  danger;  and  this 
^tal  fecurity  frequently  leads  hiifi  to  the  brink  of  the 

pre- 


CONSUMPTION.  505 

)>redpiee5  before  he  difcovers  diat  his  fall  is  inevitable^ 
and  prevents  his  feeking  advice  till  it  is  too  late  to  de*^ 
rive  benefit  from  it. 

Here  let  us  carefully  exhort  our  readd^s  never  ta 
xicgleA  the  leaft  tendency  to  this  diieaie>  which  ^Iway^ 
appears  in  an  obftinate  cough,  but  to  betake  themlelves 
immediately  to  proper  regimen,  which  will  in  many, 
perhaps  in  moft  cafes,  effcft  the  cure  of  this  difbrder^ 
if  it  is  taken  in  ieaibn;  but  if  fufiered  to  proceed  till 
the  conftitution  is  lhaken>  it  fcarce  ever  fails  to  prove 
fiical,  in  fpite  of  every  exertion  of  art,  and  all  the  powers 
of  medicine* 

The  efieds  of  r^imen  in  cafes  of  this  ibrt  have  been 
To  extraordinary,  that  by  ffa-ift  attention  to  it,  perfona 
aj^xirendy  confumptive  have  pafled  through  lives  of 
confiderable  length  without  having  all  the  fymptoms  re-> 
moved,  yet  without  their  being  increafed  to  any  degree 
ef  violence. 

Air  and  exereife  are  the  firft  great  articles.  Change 
of  air  is  of  fo  much  confequence  in  all  difeafes  of 
die  hings,  that  when  it  has  been  from  a  good  air  to  a 
worfe,  it  has  in  fbme  inftances  been  found  ferviceable^ 
Narrow  chef^ed  and  afthmatic  perfons  will  fometimes 
breathe  better  in  thofe  parts  of  the  metropolis  than  they 
could  in  the  country  j  but  in  confumptive  cafes,  the  air 
of  all  large  and  populous  places  has  been  proved  by  ex- 
perience to  be  injurious :  wl^en  the  patient  is  advifed  to 
a  change  of  air,  it  becomes  an  important  obje£i:  to 
point  out  the  moft  proper  change,  and  to  enforce  it 
without  delay. 

But  it  is  not  enough  to  recommend  air,  it  muft 
be  taken  where  it  is  moft  falutary,  and  received  at  pro- 

R  r  per 


3o6  CONSUMPTION/ 

per  rimes  and  feafons ;  when  the  open  air  of  the  dajr 
may  be  refrcfhing  and  highly  beneficial,  that  of  the 
night  would  be  noxious  and  injurious ;  and  every  pre- 
caution is  worth  attending  to,  where  life  itfelf  is  con- 
cerned. 

But  when  change  of  air,  or  change  of  climate  are  re- 
commended with  any  hope  of  aftually  removing  the 
diforder,  the  advice  muft  be  put  in  praftice  without  de- 
lay i  it  is  in  the  early  ftages  of  it  only  that  fuccefs  may 
be  expefted  to  attend  thefe  meaiures :  when  the  lungs 
are  obftrufted  to  a  violent  degree,  or  the  matter  has 
been  copioufly  received  into  the  blood,  journeys  or  voy- 
ages anfwer  little  other  purpofc  than  to  harrafs  the  alrea- 
dy cxhaufted  patient,  and  drag  him  to  breathe  his  laft 
hours  remote  from  his  friends,  and  deprived  of  the  com- 
forts and  conveniences  of  his  own  habitation. 

And  we  are  inclined  to  believe,  that  a  fea  voyage  of 
confiderable  length  would  be  ftill  more  likely  to  pro- 
mote the  cure  of  this  lingering  malady ;  fea  fickneis  of- 
ten proves  highly  beneficial  to  the  ccmfumptive,  as  well 
as  the  air  of  the  fea :  thefe  cafes  arc  not  only  firquently 
attended  with  an  impaired  digcftion,  but  aUb  with  a  re- 
dundancy of  bile  i  and  perhaps  the  emetic  operation  of 
fea  ficknefs  may  clcanfe  the  firft  paflages,  and  be  of  very 
lingular  ufe. 

•  The  benefit  of  excrcife  in  this  diftemper  has  been 
ftrongly  urged  by  every  phyfician  who  has  prefcribed  for 
it,  and  every  writer  who  has  treated  of  it  j  yet  fuch  cau- 
tions arc  frequently  omitted,  as  may  be  abfolutely  ne- 
ccflary  to  prevent  this  great  auxiliary  from  being  abufed, 
or  being  xifcd  in  fuch  a  way,  by  confumptive  patients^ 
as  to  prove  more  injurious  than  beneficial. 

The 


CONSUMPTION.  307 

The  befl:  exerciie  that  can  be  taken,  is  riding  on 
faorfeback ;  and  nioderate  journeys  in  temperate  weather 
arc  of  excellent  ufc  in  confumptivc  cafes  :  but  the  fea- 
fan  and  hours  for  riding  ihould  be  confulted ;  in  fharp, 
damp,  cold,  or  foggy  weather,  late  at  night,  or  too  early 
in  the  niorning,  confumptive  perfons  will  find  evpn  this 
exercife  prejudicial,  and  the  difeafe  will  be  increafed  by 
any  indifcretion  in  this  particular. 

If  the  patient  cannot  bear  this  kind  of  exercife,  he 
muft  feek  it  in  fome  vehicle  ;  but  it  ihould  be  as  open 
as  poflible  -,  care  being  taken  in  this  way  of  moving,  as 
well  as  on  horfeback,  to  avoid  the  rilques  of  being  wetj^ 
or  violently  afFefted  by  any  of  the  fudden  changes  in  the. 
air  and  weather,  to  which  this  climate  is  fo  liable. 

In  ufing  exercife  either  way,  it  Ihould  be  fo  difpofed 
as  to  create  variety  j  the  fame  ride  repeated  will  fooa 
tire,  and  when  it  ceafes  to  be  plcafing,  it  will  be  no  Ion* 
get  ufefulj  journeys,  therefore,  are  to  be  preferred  befbrp 
rides,  but  both  ihould  be  completed  before  dinner  j  for 
nding  on  a  full  itomach  will  rather  do  harm  than  good. 

Above  all  things,  exercife  ihould  be  enforced  in  the 
early  dages  of  this  difeafe ;  as  it  gains  ground,  and  the 
body  becomes  weak,  a  total  diiinclination  to  motion 
t^es  place  -,  and  the  p^in  and  fatigue  with  which  it  is 
accompanied,  iprv?  rather  to  hartais  the  patien?  than  tp 
benefit  him. 

Medicine  and  regimen  muil  go  |iand  in  hand  to  the 
cure  of  confumptive  cafes ;  and  when  the  latter  becomes 
ufeleis^  litde  expeftation  of  fyccefs  cap  be  foriped  fi-om 
the  former. 

But  zk  and  exercife  alone  will  not  b^  fufiicient  to  e& 
fe^  a  cure  3  a  regulation  of  diet  deniands  attention,  aqd 

R  r  2,  indeed 


36«  CONSUMPTION. 

indeed  is  indifpenfable  in  confumpdve  complaints.  Per^ 
Ions  labouring  under  this  diforder  ihould  xife  no  food  of 
a  heating  nature  or  which  ishardof  digeftion;  the  animal 
feod  fhould  be  taken  in  fmall  quantities,  and  of  thofe 
kinds  the  flefh  of  which  is  white  and  light ;  the  ddnk 
fliould  be  alfo  cooling,  and  vegetables  and  milk  ihould 
conftitute  the  greater  part  of  the  patient's  fullenance ; 
but  even  in  the  ufe  of  thefe,  the  conftitution  and  habit 
of  body  ought  to  be  confulted ;  for  whate;ver  produces 
ficknefi  or  griping,  mull  be  omitted  without  helitation.' 
'  Milk  diet  alone  has  been  recommended  as  almoft  in- 
£dlible  in  the  cure  of  this  difeafe ;  and,  perhaps,  it  has 
in  many  inftances  fucceeded  even  beyond  expectation. 

Of  all  milk  (except  the  milk  of  a  woman's  breaft  drawn 
by  the  patient  himfelf)  aflcs  milk  is  cfteemed  moft  lalu- 
tary  J  if  this  can  be  obtained  in  fufficient  quantities,  (for 
a  Ihiall  quantity  can  be  but  of  very  little  ufe)  it  may 
conftitute  a  principal  proportion  of  the  patient's  food,  at 
ieaft  of  the  liquid  part  of  it ;  drinking  half  a  pint  in 
twenty-four  hours  can  produce  but  a  very  trifling  change 
in  the  humours,  nor  indeed  will  either  ordinary  patience, 
or  a  common  conftitution,  hold  out  to  wait  a  cure  which 
is  to  be  produced  fo  flowly. 

But  in  obftinatc  coughs,  and  confequent  pains  in 
the  breaft,  which  threaten,  and  if  not  checked  in  time, 
would  certainly  occafion  confirmed  confumptions,  aflfes 
milk  will  produce  very  extraordinary  eflfcfts,  and  in  moft 
cafes  prevent  the  formation  of  matter  on  the  lungs ;  but 
if  the  ulcers  are  already  formed,  it  can  hardly  be  expcft- 
ed  to  fucceed. 

Aftes  milk'  ought  to  be  drank  immediately  as  it  is 
milked  from  the  beaft,  in  quantity  '^or  a  grown  perfon) 

a  not 


CONSUMPTION.  00^ 

p&t  Icfi  than  half  a  pint  at  a  time,  and  rq>eated  four 
times  in  the  twenty-four  hours  at  proper  diftances :  fome 
recommend  eating  a  bit  of  bread  or  bifcuit  with  it  as 
often  as  it  is  taken^  but  this  mufl  depend  principally  oq 

• 

the  patient^s  appetite.  Inftead  of  giving  it  whilil  he  k^ 
mains  in  bed,  we  apprehend  the  better  time  is  jull  be^ 
fere  he  is  about  to  ufe  his  exercife ;  if  it  ihould  occafioii 
purging)  that  quality  may  be  corrected  by  adding  a 
fmaU  quantity  of  confervc  of  rofes,  or  powder  of  craba 
claws. 

Next  to  afTes  niilk>  that  of  goats  ieems  moft  fuitable^ 
cows  milk,  though  not  ib  eafily  digefted  as  the  others, 
may  yet  be  ufed  to  a  very  confiderable  advantage,  if 
niixed  with  an  equal  quantity  of  barley  water  5  and  fisc^ 
ding  the  animal,  whofc  milk  is  to  compofe  the  fick  peiv 
ion's  diet,  on  particular  forts  of  herbage,  has  been  flig« 
gefted  as  a  method  of  adding  the  virtues  of  thofe  herbs 
to  that  of  the  milk  -,  or  perhaps  this  purpofe  may  be  an^ 
fwered  with  much  lefs  difficulty  and  greater  certainty^ 
by  mixing  infufions  of  thefe  herbs  with  the  milk,  inflead 
of  barley  waten 

But  a  milk  diet  will  not  fuit  every  conflitution ;  there 
are  ibme  with  which  this  nutriment,  excellent  as  it  is  in 
confumptive  cafes,  feems  to  difagree ;  if  this  is  occa- 
fioned  by  a  pronenefs  to  generate  bile,  or  too  ftrong  a  ten- 
dency to  acidities  from  weak  organs  of  digeftion,  in  the 
latter  cafe  lime  water  may  be  added  to  the  milk,  and  in 
the  former  it  is  probable,  that  whey  from  the  milk  of 
cows  or  goats  would  agree  beft. 

The  common  addition  of  rum  or  other  fpirhs  to 
milk  is  by  no  means  to  be  recommended ;  ardent  fpi-> 
tits  heat  a  frame  already  difpofed  to  fever>  and  coagulate 

the 


gift  CONSUMPTION- 

the  milk,  anfwering  the  purpofcs  of  dcftrojring  the  bcilr ' 
qualities  of  the  medicine,  and  incrcafing  the  moft  trou- 
bleibme  part  of  the  diforder. 

.  And  when  we  advife  a  milk  diet,  we  do  not  mean  to 
enjoin  an  immediate  departure  from  every  kind  of  food 
or  liquors  to  which  the  patient  has  been  accuftomed,  or 
to  confine  him  to  this  liquid  only ;  a  change  k  fudden 
and  violent  might  be  attended  with  danger ;  it  may  be 
right  to  eat  of  light  animal  food  once  a  day ;  by  degrees 
to  drop  the  flefli  for  the  broth  of  chickens,  veal,  or 
Iamb  J  and  gradually  to  omit  the  ufe  of  even  animal 
juices.  And  the  fame  methods  may  be  taken  to  break 
off  the  ufe  of  wine,  diluting  it  with  water  in  augmented 
proportions,  till  it  can  be  altogether  difufed  without  in- 
convenience. 

But  the  fooner  the  patient  can  be  brought  to  bear  a 
:diet  chiefly  of  milk  and  vegetables,  the  better  will  be 
-his  profpefts  of  fpeedy  and  perfeft  recovery ;  this  diet 
Jhould  be  compofed  of  every  variety  which  is  confident 
with  the  idea  j  iuch  as  rice  milk,  barley  boiled  in  milk, 
puddings  made  with  milk,  ripe  fruits  of  all  kinds  in  tarts 
or  puddings,  jellies  of  all  forts  of  fruits,  and  the  fruits 
themfelves  in  conferves,  marmalades,  and  preferved  with 
fugar. 

To  this  diet  nuy  be  added  moft  forts  of  Ihell-fifh : 
oyfters  in  particular  have  been  found  highly  beneficial, 
more  efpecially  if  the  patient  is  much  reduced  in  ftrength 
.  or  fpirits  ;  in  which  cafe  it  may  be  alfo  neceffary  to  al- 
low rich  broths,  jellies,  and  the  like ;  but  care  flaould  be 
taken  not  to  oppre(s  the  lungs  by  giving  the  patient 
eonfiderable  quantities  of  any  kind  of  nutridon  at  once. 

Patients 


CONSUMPTION.  3xf 

Parents  fhould  feed  like  infants  s  often^  but  litde  at  ^ 
time. 

The  caution  which  is  fo  often,  and  generally  fo  una- 
vailingly  repeated  in  other  diforders,  may  with  great 
px>priety  be  applied  in  confumptive  cafes  -,  let  the  ntiind 
be  kept  as  eafy,  undifturbed,  and  cheerful,  as  poiUblc 
Condimptions  frequendy  originate  in  grief,  difappoint-f 
ment,  or  a  melancholy  turn  of  mind ;  therefore,  mirth^ 
variety,  and  whatever  tends  to  infpire  cheerful  thoughts, 
muft  be  beneficial ;  but  this  advice,  as  we  have  before 
obferved,  is  more  properly  addreffed  to  the  friends  of  the 
patient  than  himfelf,  and  humanity  and  affeftion  will 
induce  them  to  ufe  every  endeavour  to  prevent  bis  ad- 
ding to  the  calamities  of  lickneis,  by  brooding  over  the 
misfortunes  which  may  have  occ^fioncd  it. 

The  ufe  of  the  Brillol  waters  is  always  recommended 
in  confumptive  cafes,  but  the  prefcription  in  general 
comes  too  late  -,  if  the  patient  is  fent  thither  before  the 
diieafe  is  confirmed,  and  in  the  very  firft  approaches  of 
it,  great  benefit  may  be  derived  both  from  the  journey 
and  from  the  waters  j  which  taken  frefli  at  the  pump, 
do  certainly  contain  principles  conducive  to  the  reco- 
very of  perfons  afix^fted  with  confumptive  complaints, 
and  dpecially  thofe  which  are  occafioned  by  ulcerated 
lungs.  But  the  misfortune  in  general  is,  that  either  the 
phyfician  flatters  himfelf  that  he  can  efFeft  the  cure  with- 
out this  afliftance,  or  the  patient  will  not  be  convinced 
of  the  neceffity  of  the  journey,  till  it  is  more  likely  to 
prove  detrimental  than  falutary :  and  thus,  from  felfe 
hopes  of  the  one,  or  the  want  of  determination  in  the 
other,  the  precious  moment  flips  by,  and  the  unfortunate 
patient  falls  a  facrifice  to  the  delay  -,  or  alarmed  by  the 

advan^ 


'i 

I 


311  CONSUMPTION. 

ildvances  of  the  difeaie,  and  the  opening  apprehenHoUd 
of  danger,  he  yields  to  the  entreaties  of  his  friends,  aixl 
wailes  the  Httle  remains  of  his  ftrength  in  fiiiitlefs  fa-  . 
ligue^  bringing  with  him  a  diforder  abfolutely  incurable^ 
and  adding  to  the  doubts  of  thofe,  who  not  knowing  or 
conlidering  the  fituation  in  which  he  arrives  at  the  Wells^ 
attribute  that  failure  of  cure  to  want  of  efficacy  in  the 
waters,  which  ought  to  be  imputed  to  the  negleft  of 
ufing  them  feafbnably^ 

Bleeding  in  very  fhnall  quantises,  and  frequently  re- 
peated, are  by  ibme  coniidered  as  highly  advantageous 
an  confumptive  cafes;  and  under  Ibme  circumftances 
they  are  undoubtedly  fb,  and  in  particular  where  th^ 
conftitution  apparently  abounds  with  blood  \  when  the 
blood  that  is  drawn  appears  extremely  fizy,  and  where 
there  is  much  pain  in  the  breaft,  if  by  this  operation  thefc 
fymptoms  are  abated,  it  fhould  be  continued;  but  inde-- 
licate  conftitutions,  though  the  pulfe  may  be  quick,  and 
in  ibme  degree  full,  and  though  the  blood  laft  drawn 
tnay  be  confiderably  fizy,  yet  bleedings  will  probably  bd 
attended  with  no  advantage.  And  in  the  repeated  per* 
Ibrmance  of  this  operation,  great  caution  is  certainly  ne« 
cefTary :  with  proper  care,  it  may  be  \ifeful ;  but  carried 
to  excels,  even  in  fmall  quantities,  it  may  be  produftive 
of  a  variety  of  ill  confequences. 

Where  this  difeafe  occafions  fpitting  of  blood,  blee- 
ding hath  been  alfo  recommended ;  but  we  apprehend 
even  in  this  cafe  the  fame  precautions  are  requifite,  and 
when  this  circumftance  occurs,  the  following  decodtion 
may  be  ufed  for  the  patient's  common  drink : 

Take  of  the  roots  of  marlh-mallows  moderately  dried^ 
fix  ounces;  or  of  the  leaves,  ftalks,  flowers,  and  roots 

of 


CONSUMPTION.  313 

of  the  common  mallow>  two  handfuls  ;  raifins  of  the  fun, 
two  ounces ;  water,  three  quarts.  Boll  the  ingredients 
till  one  third  of  the  water  is  confurtied. 

The  Peruvian  bark  hath  been  confidered  as  a  very- 
important  medicine  in  thefe  cafes  ;  and  perhaps  where 
the  caufe  of  the  difeafe  can  be  eafily  afcertained,  it  may 
be  ufed  with  fucccfs ;  in  confumptions  occafioned  by 
fuckling  children  longer  than  is  confiftent  with  the  mo- 
ther's ftrength,  the  bark  given  early,  and  in  moderate 
quantities,  may  be  of  excelleht^ufe  -,  under  fuch  circum- 
ftances  it  will  be  always  prudent  to  try  this  medicine, 
becaufe  it  certainly  has  retrieved  many  very  deplorable 
fituations  of  health. 

The  bark  may  alfo  be  given,  when  the  diforder  is 
fuppofed  to  arife  from  weakening  difcharges,  either  from 
^fceflcs  or  other  extraordinary  evacuations  ,•  and  where 
the  lungs  are  not  in^flamed,  or  but  in  an  inconfiderable 
degree,  it  will  no  doubt  be  of  ufe. 

One  third  of  a  dram  of  the  powder  may  be  taken  in 
thefe  cafes  every  three  or  four  hours,  in  jelly,  fyrup,  or 
the  patient's  ordinary  drink :  or  it  may  be  made  into  the 
form  of  an  eleftuary,  by  adding  conferve  of  roles,  and 
orange  or  lemon  fyrup,  and  taken  in  the  fame  propor- 
tion. 

If  the  bark  in  fubftance  Ihould  difagree,  an  ounce  of 
the  powder  may  be  infufed  twenty-four  hours 'in  a  pint* 
of  water ;  and  after  being  carefully  poured  off  or  drai- 
ned, taken  as  often  as  before  direfted,  in  the  quantity  of 
a  common  tea-cupful,  or  the  ftrength  of  the  'infiifion 
may  be  doubled,  and  then  joined  with  a  faline  mixture. 

But  ify  after  the  bark  has  been  adminiftered,  the 
breath  becomes  more  oppreffed  and  light,  the  dry  cough 

Vol.  I.  S  s  increa- 


314  CONSUMPTION. 

increafes,  and  the  puUe  grows  more  hard  and  quick,  or 
if  flight  twitching  pains  of  ihort  continuance  about  the 
brcaft  are  complained  of  more  frequently,  the  difeafc 
may  be  augmented  by  perfevering  in  the  ufe  of  the 
bark  ^  and  when  it  produces  fuch  efFedtS  in  the  progrefs 
of  confumptions,  from  whatever  caufe  they  arife,  it  will 
be  right  to  defift  from  the  ufe  of  it  immediately. 

If  no  additional  pain,  tightncfs,  or  oppreflion  is  per- 
ceivable, but  on  the  contrary,  there  is  an  apparent 
abatement  of  the  fymptoms,  it  will  be  right  to  proceed : 
but  the  adminiftration  of  this  medicine  requires  attentive 
obfervation,  that  it  be  neither  given  in  the  very  inflam- 
matory ftate  of  this  difeafe,  nor  the  ufe  of  it  continued 
after  it  produces  any  of  the  efFedts  abovementioned.  And 
upon  the  whole,  as  much  good  or  great  harm  may  be 
occafioned  by  this  bark,  fo  the  operations  of  it  cannot 
be  watched  with  too  much  attention. 

Nor  is  fhe  elixir  of  vitriol  in  certain  cafes  ufed  with 
Icfs  impropriety  than  the  bark ;  for  when  the  pulfe  is 
quick  and  hard,  when  the  difficulty  of  breathing  is  con- 
fklerable,  and  the  cough  frequent  and  attended  with 
much  heat,'  and  little  expedoration,  this  medicine  will 
often  increafe  every  fymptom,  and  bring  on  a  fpitting  of 
blood,  and  all  its  melancholy  confcquences.  But  in  the 
latter  ftages  of  the  difeafe,  when  there  is  a  tendency  to 
putrefaftion,  it  may  be  cooled  and  checked  by  the  ufe 
of  the  elixir  of  vitriol,  when  it  alfo  reftrains  the  wafting 
fweats,  and  may  prove  even  beneficial  to  the  lungs,  if 
they  fhould  not  be  fo  far  injured  as  to  be  paft  repair. 

Baliams  have  been  ufually  recommended  in  tlie  cure 
of  confumptions  5  with  what  propriety,  will  probably 
appear  from  the  following  confiderations.    Balfams  of 

every 


C  O  N  S  U  M  1>  T  I  O  N.  a^S 

every  denomination  (we  would  be  underftood  to  mean 
chofe  which  arc  known  in  the  fhops  by  the  names  of 
balfams  of  Tolu,  Peru,  Capivi,  &c.  and  the  prepared 
balfanis,  fuch  as  Locatelli's  baliam  of  lulphur,  &c.)  are 
of  a  gummous  and  refinous  nature,  and  of  a  hot  and 
acf^id  quality. 

Demulcent  medicines,  or  fuch  as  (heath  the  acrimony 
of  the  humours  and  render  them  mild,  and  all  luch  as 
are  of  a  cooling  nature,  are  to  be  recommended.  An 
unexceptionable  emulfion  may  be  alfo  made  with  frefh 
white  poppy  feed,  in  the  proportion  of  an  ounce  of  feed 
to  a  quart  of  pure  water,  or  rather  of  Briftol  water,  if  it 
can  be  cafily  procured. 

Beat  the  feeds  fine  in  a  mortar,  adding  the  water  by 
degrees,  fo  that  it  may  mix  perfectly,  and  then  ftrain  it 
off. 

Acids  in  general  produce  good  effefts  in  this  difeafe; 
the  vegetable  acids,  or  thofe  of  fruits,  are  to  be  prefer- 
red ;  ripe  oranges,  or  even  lemons,  may  be  fucked  with 
great  advantage  in  conliderable  quantities,  as  they  pro- 
mote expeftoration,  perhaps  better  than  the.  following 
medicines,  which  are  fometimes  prefcribed  for  this  pur- 
poie : 

Frefh  fqills,  powdered  cardamon  feeds,  and  gum  am- 
rtioniac,  of  each  half  an  ounce  j  beat  them  together  in  a 
mortar,  and  add  of  fimple  fyrup  fufficient  to  reduce  the 
mafs  to  a  confiftency  fit  for  pills ;  theie  may  be  made  of 
a  reafonable  fize,  and  two  or  three  of  them  taken,  once, 
twice,  or  thrice  a  day,  as  the  patient's  ftomach  will  bear 
them. 

The  following  mixture  has  been  alfo  recommended 
to  promote  expedoradon,  and  to  aA  as  a  gentld  ano^ 

S  s  a  dyne ; 


3i6  CONSUMPTION. 

dyne ;  which  may  in  fome  ftages  of  this  difeafe  be  ne^ 
ceflary>  in  particulaCr  when  the  cough  is  io  extremely 
troublefome  as  to  prevent  the  patient  from  taking  reft, 
and  by  that  means  increafing  his  fweats^  and  adding  to 
his  welknefs. 

Take  of  lemon  juice,  two  ounces ;  fine  honey,  twQ 
ounces  i  fyrup  of  poppies,  two  ounces.  Let  them  heat- 
together,  and  boil  a  few  minutes  over  a  gentle  fire,  ta- 
king off  the  froth  and  drofs  which  arifes.  Of  this  mix- 
ture let  a  large  tea-fpoonful  be  taken  as  often  as  the 
'cjough  is  troublefome. 

But  all  heating  anodynes  and  cordials  muft:  be  care- 
fully avoided ;  nor  (hould  any  others  be  ufed,  or  more 
in  quantity,  than  will  ferve  to  mitigate  a  fruidefs  conti- 
nual cough,  nor  until  the  inflammation  attending  it  is 
abated  by  a  cooling  regimen  and  proper  evacuations. 

Conferve  of  rofes  freely  taken,  even  to  the  quantity  of 
feveral  ounces  in  a  day,  hath  been  faid  to  produce  very 
favourable  efFcfts,  and  particularly  when  there  is  any 
difcharge  of  blood  from  the  lungs  j  it  may  be  mixed 
with  the  decoftion  recommended  for  common  drink,  or 
taken  by  itfelf,  if  more  agreeable  to  the  palate. 

Drains  are  alfo  efteemed  of  ufe  in  the  cure  of  difor- 
/  .ders  of  the  bread ;  iflTues,  fctons,  and  blifters,  both  tem- 
porary and  fuch  as  are  kept  open,  have  been  earneftly 
infifted  on,  as  abfolutely  neceffary ;  and  receiving  the 
vapours  or  fumes  of  refin  and  wax,  and  alfo  of  balfamic 
«:her,  hath  been  ftrongly  recommended  to  relieve  the 
fliortnels  of  breath :  neither  the  one  or  the  other  can  be 
attended  with  any  ill  confequences,  except  in  cafes  where 

the  ftrength  is  already  too  much  cxhaufted  to  admit  of 
the  drains. 

Young 


CONVULSION.  317 

Voung  and  delicate  females,  from  the  age  of  fifteen 
and  upwards,  are  frequently  fubjeft  to  confumptions ; 
in  the  advanced  ftate  of  this  diftemper,  the  periodical 
difchargeSi  if  they  have  ever  appeared,  generally  ceafe  ^ 
this  alarms  their  friends ;  and^  at  their  prefling  inftances, 
medicines  have  been  fometimes  adnriiniftered,  (under  an 
idea  that  this  ftoppage  has  occafioned  the  complaints) 
which  have  aggravated  the  fymptoms* 

But  the  faft  is,  that  the  want  of  this  difchargc  is  in 
thefe  cafes  attended  with  no  difadvantage,  and  the  return 
of  it  would  be  injurious,  by  depriving  the  patient  of  a 
portion  of  that  ftrength  which  is  already  infufficient^  for 
the  purpofes  of  life  5  if  the  fupprcflion  is  fudden,  it  may 
be  neccffary  to  take  a  fmall  quantity  of  blood  s  but  when 
the  evacuation  fails  through  adtual  lofs  of  ftrength,  or 
poornels  of  blood,  the  difeafe  will  be  increafed  by  fuch 
attempts  to  promote  this  difcharge. 

Temperance,  and  a  certain  degree  of  caution,  in  ma- 
ny of  the  ordinary  circumftandes  of  life,  are  the  chief, 
perhaps  it  may  be  faid  the  only  preventives  that  can 
poffibly  be  applied.  But  the  nature  of  the  difeafe  may 
fo  eafily  be  known,  and  the  progreis  of  it  generally  fo 
happily  flopped,  in  the  firft  ftages,  that  the  remedies  then 
ufed  may  be  in  feme  meafure  deemed  preventives. 
Early  applications  therefore  are  moft  earneftly  recom- 
nicnded. 


CONVULSION. 

This  kind  of  fits,  when  they  are  not  the  forerunner^ 
Or  companions  of  other  diforders,  are  occafioncd  by  ^ 

violent 


5it  CONVULSION. 

violent  agitation  of  the  brain,  affeding  the  whole  ner- 
vous (yftcm. 

But  the  occafion  of  convuUlons  in  infants  is  to  be 
feund  in  a  great  variety  of  other  caufes  more  evident  to 
our  fenfes  and  familiar  to  our  underftandings.  The  ap- 
]>eanence  of  convulfion  fits  is  in  diftortion  of  features, 
^brtings,.  twitchings,  and  contradtions,  attended  with 
blacknefs  about  the  mouth  and  eyes,  and  not  uncom- 
monly a  cough,  vomiting,  and  purging,  and  almoft  con« 
ftant  fleepinefs  between  the  fits. 

In  the  fmall-pox,  meafles,  and  other  diibrders  of  the 
lame  kind,  convulfion  fits  are  ufual  fymptoms ;  at  the 
feaibn  of  breeding  teeth  children  are  peculiarly  liable  to 
them,  and  they  are  frequently  produced  from  irritation 
c£  the  nervous  fyftem,  by  acrid  humours  in  the  ftomach 
or  bowels,  worms,  twitching  and  gnawing  the  inteftines, 
and  violent  pains  of  any  kind,  whether  proceeding  fi*om 
diforder  or  any  external  injury. 

Hence  it  will  be  clear,  that  the  caufe  being  removed, 
the  convulfions  will  be  at  an  end :  as  fbon  as  the  fitiall* 
pox  or  meafles  appear  on  the  (kin,  the  fits,  however  vi- 
olent before,  ceafe  immediately  \  in  cafes  which  pro- 
ceed fron)  gripings,  the  correction  of  the  indifpofition 
in  the  bowels  and  (tomach  will  put  a  flop  to  the  con* 
vulfions,  and  the  mixture  of  magnefia  and  rhubarb,  omit- 
ting one  half  of  the  former,  and  adding  the  like  quan- 
tity of  powder  qf  prepared  crabs-eyes,  will  more  eflfeftu- 
ally  anfwer  that  purpofe  than  any  other  medicine. 

When  the  fits  are  occafioned  by  teeth,  fmali  blifters  may 
be  kept  open ;  coftivenefs  ftiould  be  prevented^by  manna, 
or  other  cooling  phyfic,  and  the  common  clyfters,  if  ne- 
cefTary,  with  a  few  drops  of  laudanum.     A  fma^  quan- 
tity 


i 


•4 


CONVULSION.  31J 

tity,  not  exceeding  three  or  four  drops  of  the  tin6):ure 
of  caflor,  may  alfo  be  given  in  a  tea-fpoonful  of  penny- 
royal water,  and  repeated  more  or  Ids  often,  according 
to  the  frequency  of  the  fits. 

But  inftances  have  happened,  where  pins  thruft  into 
the  child's  body,  a  leg,  foot,  or  arm  forced  into  an  xin- 
natural  pofture,  or  even  the  flip  of  a  knot  in  tying  their 
deaths,  occafioning  unufual  ftrifture,  have  produced 
theie  fits ;  and,  perhaps,  if  examination  was  more  frc- 
quendy  made  into  the  fituatiori  of  the  child's  body,  a 
diieafe  fo  dreadful  in  appearances,  and  in  confequenccs 
fo  commonly  fatal,  might  fometimes  be  prevented,  and 
very  often  removed,  without  the  afliflance  of  art,  or  the 
interpofition  of  medicine. 

During  the  continuance  of  the  fit  all  operations  and 
applications  are  in  vain,  and  ferve  only  to  add  to  the 
torments  of  the  unhappy  litde  fufferer,  without  the  fmal- 
left  hope  of  affording  him  relief.  Patience,  and  the  mild 
and  gentle  treatment  which  we  have  recommended,  will 
always  produce  a  temporary,  and  in  moft  cafes  an  ef- 
fe£kual  cure.  Shaking  the  child  to  rouze  it,  and  the  ap- 
plication of  fpirits  or  effences  to  the  nofbils,  temples, 
&c.  have  very  often  dangerous  effedb.  Let  the  child 
be  kept  perfedtly  quiet,  and  the  ufe  of  opening  and  cor- 
reding  medicines  be  continued  between  the  fits,  and 
they  will  be  foon  found  to  return  lefs  frequently,  and 
with  abated  violence ;  till  the  canfe  being  totally  remo- 
ved, and  the  contents  of  the  ftomach  and  bowels  redu- 
ced to  a  natural  ftate,  the  difeafe,  with  all  the  dreadful 
fymptoms,  will  difappear,  and  the  return  may  be  in  a 
great  meafure  prevented  by  a  proper  attention  to  regi- 
men and  evacuations*  j 


I' 


3^0  COO    K. 

We  cannot  difinifs  this  article,  without  again  urging 
our  readers  not  to  confider  con vulfion- fits  in  children 
as  an  habitual  diforder,  but  to  feek  for  the  caufe  of  them 
on  the  firft  appearance  i  that  difcovercd  the  cure  will  be 
cafy :  but  to  load  the  ftomachs  of  infants  with  -  mufk, 
afafcetida,  caftor,  and  other  medicines  of  the  fame  tribe, 
ilfually  prefcribed  in  thefe  cafes,  is  to  weaken  and  diftrcls 
the  patient  without  forwarding  the  cure* 


COOK. 


By  the  name  of  Cook  we  mean  that  fervant  in  whole 
department  is  the  care  of  the  kitchen  in  general  -,  and 
which  place,  as  well  as  its  appendages  and  utenfils,  it  is 
her  office  to  keep  thoroughly  clean,  and  alfo  her  own 
pcrfon  : — Ckanline/s  in  the  drefling  of  her  viftuals  being 
as  indifpenfably  neceffary  as  a  knowledge  of  cookery* 
To  enumerate  every  little  iiem  of  dyty  belonging  to  a 
Cook,  would  be  an  endlefs,  indeed  a  needlefs  tafk,  for 
no  perfon  will  prefume  to  hire  thennfelves,  nor  will  any 
M  iftrefs  of  a  family  accept  a  fervant  of  this  clafs,  who 
wants  to  be  Ihewn  the  neceffity  of  keeping  clean  her  fauce 
pans  and  coppers,  or  to  be  told  that  (he  ftiould  not  fcrape 
their  bottoms  with  a  filver  fpoon. 

The  intercfl"  of  die  mafter  or  miftrefs  of  a  family  is 
fo  very  much  in  the  power  of  a  Cook,  that  an  honcft, 
fober,  and  frugal  one,  is  a  defirable  acquifition.  .  A 
kitchen  fire  is  a  heavy  confumer  of  coals,  and  they  arc. 
an  expenfive  article  in  every  family :  a  frugal  cook  who 
knows  her  duty,  and  is  in  her  employer's  intereft,  will 
take  proper  care  in  this  refpeft  -,  a  qaeat  fcreen  is  a  very 

2  great 


J 


1- 


± 


r 


X 


+ 


t 


; 


t 


COOK.  521 

great  faver  of  coals ;  and  a  bellows  is  their  deflxuc^ 
don.  Cooks  are  in  general  great  lovers  of  the  poker, 
for  which  reafbn  a  very  heavy  one  is  the  bed  preferva- 
tive  both  of  the  fire  and  itfelf.  The  general  duties  of 
a  Cook  may  be  comprifcd  under  the  following  heads : 

To  keep  herfelf  and  every  thing  about  her  very  clean, 
and  not  to  take  fnuff.  Never  to  let  tin  ware  ruft  j  to 
be  careful  of  filver  faucepans,  and  not  to  bruife  her  cop- 
per veffels.  To  keep  her  pewter  bright,  her  fpits  and 
jack  always  clean,  as  alio  her  candle  and  fait  boxes  $ 
the  chimney  fhould  alfo  be  attended  to.  To  be  guarded 
againft  cats,  dogs,  and  flies;  to  attend  to  lalted  provifions, 
and  fuch  cold  provilions  as  are  put  away,  to  keep  them 
cool;  and  if  carried  to  table  a  fecond  time  to  let  them 
be  handfomely  cut  with  a  clean  knife,  and  the  prime  parts 
left.  She  ought  not  to  be  liquorilh  after  the  young  men, 
nor  fond  of  dainties  and  fbong  liquors  ^  and  fhe  will 
have  too  much  hqnefly  to  give  away  or  deftroy  her  mal^ 
tcr's  property. 

In  an  agt:  when  the  lifeful  parts  of  education,  that  is, 
reading  and  writing,  are  fb  cheaply  to  be  attained^  a 
Cook  ought  to  be  acquainted  with  them,  and  a  little 
arithmetic.  Th^  wages  of  a  Cook  arc  ufually  higher 
than  thofe  of  the  other  fervants,  bcfides  being  frequently 
allowed  perquifites ;  a  maftcr  or  milbrefs  has  therefore  a 
^ght  to  expedt  every  degree  of  attention,  and  the  myoft 
fcrupulous  fidelity  aad  attachnient, 

In  the  arrangement  of  thi§  work  it  is  hoped  that  every 
^mg  will  be  found  that  can  be  ufeful  or  necefTary  ta 
*^e  a  complete  cook ;  and  here  we  fhall  add  fb.mc 
u»cfvil  niemorandums,  which  cannot  fb  well  be  reduced 
Mnder  any  particular  head. 

Vol,.  I,  T  t  Thus, 


f 


5«  COOK, 

Thus^  iuppofing  dinner  is  to  to  be  got  ready  agalnft 
a  certain  time,  and  you  have  any  of  the  following  difhes 
to  drefs ;  take  care  your  fire  is  in  good  order,  and  put 
them  into  the  pot,  or  on  the  (pit,  according  to  the  timo 
they  will  take  up,  as  follows : 

Dijbes  that  require  a  garter  of  an  Hour  roajling. 

Teals,  Partridges,  Pigeons,  Woodcocks,  according  to 
their  fize,  will  require  from  twenty  to  twenty-five 
minutes. 

A  Ihipe  will  take  front)  fifteen  to  twenty  minutes. 

A  wild  duck,  if  well  done,  will  take  twenty-five  minutes, 

A  widgeon  will  require  twenty  minutes. 

Joints  that  require  Half  an  Hour  drejfing^ 

Leg  of  lamb  boiled  of  five  pounds. 
A  fmall  fowl  or  chicken  roafted,  or  boiled, 
A  rabbit  roafted. 
Pigeons  boiled. 

Dijhes  that  require  three  ^arfers  of  an  Hour^ 

A  large  fowl  roaftcd. 

A  large  fowl  or  capon  boiled, 

A  rabbit  boiled. 

Dijhes  requiring  an  Hqur  and  a  ^arte>\ 

A  goofe  roafted. 
A  turkey  boiled. 

Joints  requiring  an  Hour  and  a  Half 

A  neck  of  mutton  boiled  of  feven  pounds. 
A  breaft  of  veal  roafted  of  ten  pounds. 
A  neck  of  veal  roafted  9f  nine  poupds, 

A  leg 


I 


^ 


COOK,  3aj 

A  leg  of  lamb  boilccf  of  nine  pounds. 

A  hare. 

A  turkey  roafted. 

Joints  requiring  Two  Hours. 

Leg  of  mutton  boiled  of  eight  pounds. 
Shoulder  of  mutton  roafted  of  ten  pounds; 
Leg  of  mutton  roafted  of  ditto. 
Chine  roafted  of  twelve  pounds. 
Loin  of  veal  roafted  of  eleven  pounds. 
Knuckle  of  veal  boiled  of  fix  pounds. 
Leg  of  pork  roafted  of  eleven  pounds. 
Leg  of  pork  boiled  of  ten  pounds. 

Joints  requiring  Three  HourSt 

Briflcet  of  fourteen  pounds. 

Edgebone  of  twenty-four  pounds. 

Chump  end  of  a  firloin  roafted  of  twenty-four  pounds* 

Rib  piece  of  twenty-four  pounds. 

Fillet  of  veal  roafted  of  fourteen  pounds. 

iL  rump  of  beef  roafted  of  about  eighteen  pottndsj  re« 
quires  three  hours  and  a  half:  and  a  buttock  of  beef 
of  twenty-four  pounds  takes  full  four  hours  i  aUb  a 
ham  of  fixteen  or  twenty  pounds. 

We  (hall  next  fet  down  the  different  names  of  the 
joints  of  meat^  &c.  for  a  help  when  fent  to  market^  as 
perfons  are  apt  to  forget  or  miftake  them. 

Beef. 

An  ox  cheek  is  half  the  head. 

The  ihin  is  cut  off  the  veiny  knuckle  of  the  fore  quarter- 
Ribs  of  beef  are  cut  off  the  fore  quarter. 

T  t  2  The 


^24  coo  k. 

The  (irloin  is  cut  off  the  chine  par?  of  the  hind  quarter^ 
Rump  of  beef  is  cut  oflF  the  chine,  and  joins  to  the  firloin. 
Buttock  of  beef  is  the  thick  piece  off  the  upper  part  of 

the  thigh. 
The  edgebone  joins  to  the  buttock* 
The  thick  flank  comes  off  one  fide  the  buttock. 
Brifket  comes  off  the  belly  part  of  the  ribs. 
The  veiny  part  is  cut  off  the  veiny  part  of  the  thick 

flank.. 
Thin  flank  is  the  belly  piece  fixun  the  briflcet,  and  cornea 

off  the  thin  part  of  the  thick  flank  and  veiny  piece, 
Moufe  buttock  is  a  piece  cut  from  between  the  buttock 

and  leg. 
A  baron  of  beef  is  the  fame  as  a  faddle  of  mutton. 

Bacon. 

Hock  of  bacon  is  cut  off  the  fore  or  hind  leg. 
The  befl:  is  the  thin  or  belly  end  of  the  ribs. 

Mutton. 

A  faddle  of  mutton  is  the  two  loins  roafted  whole. 
The  head  with  the  heart,  liver  and  lights. 
A  fliouldcr  is  the  fore  leg  cut  from  the  fore  quarter. 
A  neck  is  the  fore  quarter  next  after  the  fhoulder  is  cut 

from  it. 
A  bread,  the  belly  end  of  the  ribs  cut  from  the  neck. 
A  leg  cut  from  the  hind  quarter. 
A  loin,  the  hind  quarter  after  the  leg  is  cut  from  it. 
A  chine  is  two  loins  not  feparated,  with  the  thin  part  of 

the  belly  cut  off. 

Lamb  comes  under  the  fame  naftie,  only  the  neck  and 

ij  breaft  being  conamonly  together,  are  called  a  coaft  or 

ribs  of  lamb. 

Pork* 


!. 


COOK.  315 

Pork. 

Leg  of  pork  is  the  hind  leg  cut  from  the  loin. 
Spring  of  pork  is  the  fore  leg, 
A  fore  loin  is  cut  off  from  the  ipring. 
A  hind  loin  is  cut  from  the  hind  quarter  after  the  kg 
is  cut  from  it. 

Veal. 
A  calTs  head. 

Shoulder  of  veal  is  the  fore  leg  cut  from  the  neck 
and  breaft. 
Neck  of  veal  is  the  ribs  of  the  fame  quarter. 
Breaft  of  veal  is  the  belly 'part  of  the  ribs  from  the 

nCCK. 

Leg  of  veal  is  the  leg  cut  whole  from  the  loin. 
Fillet  of  veal  is  the  leg,  when  the  knuckle  is  cut  off. 
Knuckle  of  veal  is  cut  off  from  the  fillet. 
Loin  of  veal  is  the  hind  quarter  cut  off  from  the  leg. 

In  many  places  it  will  happen^that  the  houfe-keeper'a 
department  may  occafionally  fall  upon  the  cook ;  it  is 
ncccflary,  therefore,  that  fhe  fhould  know  in  what  man- 
ner to  fend  up  and  arrange  her  difhes  upon  the  table ; 
ihe  will,  for  this  end>  find  much  ufefulnefs  in  the  fol* 
lowing  remarks : 

Soups,  broth,  or  filh,  fhould  always  be  fet  at  the 
head  of  the  table  -,  if  none  of  thefe,  a  boiled  difh  goes  to 
*  the  head,  where  there  is  both  boiled  and  roafted. 

If  there  be  but  one  principal  difh,  it  goes  to  the  head 
Qf  the  table. 

If  four,  the  largeft  to  the  head ;  the  next  in  fize  to 
^  footj  and  the  two  fmalleft  difhes  on  the  fides. 

I  If 


5i4  C   6   o   it. 

If  three,  the  two  fmall  ones  to  ftand  oppofitc  nigh   ] 
the  foot. 

If  five,  you  are  to  put  the  fmallcft  ia  the  middle,  the 
ether  four  oppofite. 

If  fix,  you  are  to  put  the  top  and  bottom  as  before^ 
the  two  fmall  ones  oppofite  for  fide  difhes. 

Obferve,  though  we  have  called  all  thefe  diflies,  there 
are  many  of  them,  efpecially  fide  diflies,  only  faucey 
gravy,  pickles,  fallad,  or  greens,  anfwcrable  to  the  fea- 
fon  of  the  year,  or  nature  of  the  meat.     For  inftance. 

To  boiled  beef,  cabbage  or  iprouts,  and  carrots  with 
fome  butten 

To  boiled  mutton,  tui'nips  and  capers  mixed,  and  a 
litdc  butter. 

To  a  leg  of  pork,  parfnips  and  peas-pudding. 
.  To  boiled  veal,  bacon  and  greens. 

To  boiled  fowl  and  bacon,  cabbage  or  fprouts,  and 
Ipinach. 

To  boiled  fowls,  if  not  bacon,  liver  fauce. 

To  roafted  fowls,  good  gravy  fauce,  and  faufages 
fried  for  garnifh. 

Toroaftbeef,  mutton,  or  veal;  horfe-radifli,  fallad^ 
potatoes,  or  pickles. 

To  roafl:ed  lambj  mint  fauce  chopped,  with  fugar' 
and  vinegar. 

To  roaited  pork,  or  goofe,  apple  fauce  and  muftarcl. 

To  falt-fifh,  parfnips  and  eggs  boiled  hard,  minced 
and  mixed  with  butten 

To  roafted  rabbits,  liver  fauce  and  parfley  chopped 
together. 

To  boiled  rabbits,  onion  fauce,  boiled  and  buttered. 

The 


C    O    R    N    S,  ga7 

The  bcft  way  to  keep  meat  hot,  if  it  be  done  be- 
fore your  company  i$  ready,  is  to  fet  the  dilh  over  a  pan 
of  boiling  water  j  cover  the  difh  with  a  deep  cover,  fo 
as  not  to  touch  the  meat,  and  throw  a  cloth  over  it : 
thw  you  may  keep  viftuals  hot  a  long  time.  The  fleam 
of  the  water  keeps  the  meat  hot,  and  does  not  draw  the 
gravy  out,  or  dry  it  up ;  whereas,  if  you  fet  a  difli  of 
meat  for  any  time  over  a  chafing  dilh  of  coals^  it  dries 
up  the  gravy  and  fpoils  the  meat. 

As  a  piece  of  economy,  it  is  the  duty  alfo  of  a  cook 
when  they  ferve  up  dinners,  for  inflance,  with  boiled 
turbot  or  foles,  roafled  fweet-breads,  fowls,  turkeys, 
wood(:ocks,  partridges,  &c,  that  if  they  are  not  uied^ 
table,  to  fave  them,  as  they  will  be  ferviceabfc  to  make 
'  neat  little  difhes  for  fupper,  or  dinner  the  next  day» 


CORNS 

Are  commonly  occafioned  by  wearing  fhoes  too  tight, 
imd  made  of  too  tough  or  coarfe  leather.  They  may  be 
extirpated  by  foaking  die  feet  in  warm  water,  and  then 
cutting  the  corns  gently  off  widi  a  penknife  or  razor, 
always  taking  care  not  to  proceed  fb  far  as  to  wound  the 
foot. 

But  you  will  fbften  the  corns,  and  eafe  the  fttt  more 
effeAually,  by  ufing  a  decoftion  made  by  boiling  a 
pound  of  bran  with  a  few  marfh-mallow  roots,  and  two 
or  three  handfiils  of  mallow  leaves^  in  three  quarts  of 
water. 

You  may  apply  to  the  corns  a  litde  houfeleek  and 
ground  ivy,  dipped  i|i  yipcgar :   even  a  (lice  of  freih 

lean 


jiS  CORNS. 

lean  beef^  bound  on  like  a  plainer,  and  renewed  as  it 
grows  ftale,  often  takes  them  away :  a  plaifter  of  gal- 
banum  and  fal  ammoniac^  mixed  with  fbme  fafFron^  will 
jbften  them  for  cutting  away,  or  drawing  out ;  but  if 
they  rtfe  from  the  tendons,  they  can  fcarccly  be  rooted 
out  without  danger. 

The  progrcfs  of  corns  to  their  ftate  of  hardnels  is 
very  rapid,  being  generally  completed  in  the  fpace  of  a 
very  few  days,  though  the  advancement  of  their  growth 
is  more  flow ;  they  fhould,  therefore,  be  attacked  on 
their  firft  appearance,  which  may  be  known  by  the  rcd- 
iiels  and  pain  of  the  part  whence  they  fpring.  When 
Ac  pain  15  very  violent,  the  following  is  a  very  fuccefi- 
^  remedy. 

Take  equal  parts  of  a  roafted  onion,  and  foft  ibap ; 
beat  them  tip  together^  and  apply  them  in  a  linen  rag 
by  way  of  a  poultice. 

This  application  will  inftantaneoufly  appeafe  the  pain 
of  a  corp  i  and  is  equally  proper  to  mitigate  thofe  puins 
which  return  on  a  change  of  weather,  a?  frona  froft  tg 
fhaw,  or  the  contrary. 

If  a  total  extirpation  of  the  com  is  delired,  a  plaifter 
of  diachylon  with  the  gums,  fpread  on  a  linen  rag,  and 
kept  at  the  part  for  fome  time,  is  of  extraordinary  ef- 
ficacy :  the  plaifter  pught  tp  be  removed  every  Iccond 
or  third  nightj^  that  the  foot  may  be  bathed  in  warnri 
vater,  or  the  fomentation  recommended  above,  in  or-« 
der  to  foften  the  corn,  which  fhould  afterwards  be  cau- 
uoufly  pared,  as  cutting  too  deep  has  often  been  pro- 
^dive  of  fatal  confequences* 


(    3^9    )        '      • 

COSTIVENESS 

May  proceed  from  drinking  rough  red  wines,  er 
other  aibingent  liquors;  too  much  cxerciicy  efpectally» 
on  horfeback;  it  may  likewife  proceed  from  a  long  uSk 
of  cold  infipid  food>  which  does  not  fufficiently  flimu* 
late  the  inteilines ;  fomednnes  it  is  owing  to  die  bite 
not  defcending  to  the  inteftineS)  as  in  the  jaundicci  and 
at  other  dmes  it  proceeds  from  difeafes  of  the  tindtihct 
themldves,  as  a  palfy,  ipafms,  toipor^  tumours,  a  cold 
dry  ftateof  the  inteftines,  &c.  .     <     .        /. 

ElGceflive  coftiveneis  occafiona  pains  of  ifhe  Jiead,  yo^ 

midng,  colics,  and  other  complaints  of  the  bowels It 

is  peculiarly  hurtfbl  to  hypochondriac  and .  Kyfteric  per^ 
ions,  as  it  generates  wind  and  other  g^ievouB  .fymptonnai 

Peribns  who  are  generally  coftive  fhould  live  vpoan 
moiftening  and  laxadve.  diet,  as  roafted  or  boiled '  ap<* 
pies,  pears,  ftewed  prunes,  raifins,  gruels  with  cuijantSy 
honey,  fugar,  and  fuch  like.'  Broths  with  fpinach,.ledcs> 
and  other  foft  pot-herbs  are  likewife  proper.  Ryp*' 
bread,  or  that  which  is  made  of  a  mixtureof  wheat  aixi 
rye  together,  ought  to  be  eat.  No  perfon  tlX)9L)hlQd  witi| 
coftiveneis  Ihould  eat  white,  bread  alonc^  .eCp^ially  that 
which  is  made  of  iine.fioun  The  beft  bre^d  for  keep** 
ing  the  body  ibluble  is  what  in  fonie  parts  df  Eng^di 
diey  call  mejlin;  it  is  made  of  a  mixture.. of  wheat,  and 
rye,  and  is  ^reeable  to  thofe  who  are  accustomed  tg  iUj 

Coftivencfs  is  increafed  by  keeping.. the  body  too 
warm,  and  by  every  thing  that  promotes  the  pcrfpir^-i 
tion ;  as  wearing  flannel,  lying  too  loog!  in .  bed,  &c. 
Intenle  thought  and  aiedentary  life.  ace. l^kQwife  hurt^ 

Vql.  I.  Uu  ful 


1 


330 


COSTIVENESS. 


fuU  All  the  fecretions  and  excretions  are  promoted  hy 
moderate  exercife  without  doors^  and  by  a  gay,  cheerful, 
ipri^tly  temper  of  mind. 

The  drink  fliould  be  of  an  opening  quality.  AU  ar« 
dloit  ^iritSj  auftere  and  aftringent  wines,  as  port,  cU« 
f«t)  &c.  ought  to  be  avoided.  Malt  liquor  that  is  fine 
and  of  a  moderate  ftrength,  is  very  proper.  Butter^ 
milk>  whey,  and  other  watery  liquors,  are  likewife  pro- 
per^  and  may  be  drank  in  turns,  as  the  patient's  incli-* 
jiadoQ  dire^. 

7^^  V^o  ^^c  troubled  with  coftivenefs,  ought,  if 
poflible,  to  remedy  it  by  diet,  as  the  Gonftant  ufe  of  me-> 
dicines  fi>r  that  purpoie  is  attended  with  many  iacon-* 
veniences,  and  often  with  bad  confequences*  Thc^ 
who  acquire  a  habit  of  taking  niediicine  for  keeping  the 
body  open,  fekiom  are  able  to  leave  it  oflF;  and  it  ge* 
nerally  ends  in  a  total  relaxation  of  the  bowels,  indi- 
geftion,  lofs  of  appetite^  wafting  o£  the  ftrpngth,  and 
(death. 

When  the  body  cannot  be  keptopcii  without  medicine, 
we  would  recommend  gentle  dofcs  of  rhubarb  to  be 
taken  twice  or  thrice  a  week.  This  is  not  near  ib  in* 
jurioxis  to  the  ftomach  as  aloes,  jalap,  or  the  other  fe- 
yere  purgatives  fb  much  in  ufe.  Infufions  of  fenna  and 
manna  may  likewife  be  taken,  or  half  an  ounce  of  Iblu- 
bie  tartar  diflblved  in  water-grueL  About  the  fize  of  a 
nutmeg  of  knltive  ele£hiary,  taken  twice  or  thrice  a 
d^y,  generally  anfwers  the  purpoie  very  well. 

'  Such  perfbns  as  are  troubled  with  a  habitual  hojinefsy 
ought  likewife  to  fuit  their  diet  to  the  nature  of  their 
complaint.  They  ihould  ufelbod  which  braces  and 
ftrengthens  the  bowels,  and  which  is  rather  of  an  aftrin- 

gent 


C      R      A      ft      S.  331 

gent  qudity,  as  wheat  breads  made  of  the  fineft  flouTj 
cheefe,  eggs>  rice  boiled  in  milk^  &c.  Their  drink 
fliould  be  red  pcHt,  claret>  brandy^  and  water  in  which 
toaftcd  bread  has  been  boiled^  and  fuch  like. 

As  an  habitual  loofenefi  is  often  owing  to  an  obftruc- 
ted  perfpiration^  peiibns  afieded  with  it  ought  to  keep 
their  feet  warm,  to  wear  flannel  next  their  ikin,  and  tak# 
every  other  method  to  pronMte  the  perlpiration.  Fnm 
dier  dire6tions  with  regard  to  the  treatmdnt  of  this  com* 
plaint  will  be  found  under  die  article  of  dyfentery.]- 


C  O  U  G  H.— 1»^  Cold* 


mtmrnmrnm^H^mami^t 


C  O  W  SLIP  S.— 5VrWiNB^ 


R      A      B 


Chufe  thefe  by  their  weight,  the  heavieft  being  the 
beft  :-^the  hen  crabs  are  not  fo  good  as  the  cock-ones^ 
the  meat  in  the  claws  being  often  wafted,  and  the  infide 
fiill  of  fpawn  and  water. 

To  drefs  Crabs.  The  crabs  being  alive,  boil  them 
for  about  half  an  hour  in  a  kettle  with  fait  and  watery 
take  off  the  kettle,  let  them  be  cold,  then  take  off  their^'' 
great  (hell  to  open  them,  and  put  it  on  again;  break; ' 
their  great  claws  and  take  off  their  little  ones.  Lay  ^ 
folded  napkin  in  a  difhj  place  the  crabs  in  the  middle 
with  the  broken  claws  round  them. 

Garnifh  the  dilh  with  parfley  and  ferve  it  up. 

U  u  i.  Another 


3g»  C    R    A    Y  •  F    I    S    H. 

Another  way..  Having  boiled  the  crab  as  before^ 
ttke  off  the  great  fhell  without  breaking  it,  and  take 
out  the  fle(h  of  their  bodies^  and  alfo  that  of  their  great 
clawsy  and  mince  it  well. 

Then  put  ibaie  butter  in  a  ftewpan  with  chibbols, 
ptrfley  and  muihrooms  fhred  fmall^  fry  them  a  little  on 
ji  ftove>  and  put  in  the  minced  crab-filh  with  falt^  P^P* 
ftft  fweet  herbs,  and  half  a  gla(s  of  white  wine;  let  all 
thefe  ftew  very  gently,  and  when  done,  thicken  the 
fame  with  a  bit'  of  butter  dipt  in  fine  flour^  or  with  fome 
cullis.  * 

Having  made  this  relifliing,  mix  the  juice  of  a  le- 
mon with  it,  and  wUh  it  fill  the  Ihells  of  the  crab-filh. 

Then  place  the  filled  (hells  in  a  baking-pan,  ftrew 
jbme  crumbled  bread  over  them,  fet  them  in  an  oven  to 
give  them  a  colour,  and  fcrve  them  up. 


C    R    A .  Y  -  F    I    S    H. 

.  Cray -FISH  Soups.  Having  procured  as  many  cray- 
fifli  as  will  fervc  for  your  defign,  boil  them  in  fait  and 
water^  taking  off  the  fmall  claws  and  the  ends  of  the 
great  ones;  pick  their  tails,  and  garnifli  your  difh  to- 
wards die  middle  with  the  ends.  .  Pick  the  reft  very 
clean  and  pound  the  fhells. 

Then  having  a  carp,  fcale,  wafli,  and  cut  it  into 
quarters,  then  let  a  ftewpan  over  the  fire  with  butter 
aitd  onions  cut  in  flices,  put  in  the  carp  over  it,  and 
when  it  is  a  little  coloured^  moiften  it  with  your  ibak- 
log  broth,  feaibn  it  with  cloves,  flices  of  lemon>  mu(h« 
roomsj  fweet  balilj  parfley,  and  a  few  crun^bs  of  bread* 

^t 


C    R    A    Y  -  F    I    S    H.  3  j  j 

Let  the  cuUis  be  relifliing,  take  out  the  carp  and  onions, 
and  being  mixt  with  the-  pounded  fhells,  ftrain  off  the 
cullis>  put  it  in  a  little  kettle  or  faucepan  to  keq>  wa^m. 

Then  put  the  cruft  of  a  loaf  in  a  ftcwpan,  •  with  ibme 
foaking  broth,  let  it  foak  a  while,  diih  it  up  with  the 
cray-fiibes;  lay  a  large  cruft  in  the  middle,  pour  the 
cuUis  over  it,  and  ferve  it  up  hot. 

A  Ragoo  of  Cray-fish  for  a  FUJh  day.  Pick  your 
cray-filh,  put  their  tails  on  a  plate  with  fome  fmatl 
imifhrooms,  fome  dices  of  truffles  and  a  bunch  of  fweet- 
herbs;  feaibn  alf  with  fait  and  pepper,  and  fiy  it  a  little 
with  melted  bacon  or  butter,  in  a  fmall  ftewpan, 
moifteoing  it  with  fome  gravy,  letting  it  (lew  over  a 
gende  fire,  when  it  is  enough  take  off  the  fat,  and 
thicken  it  with  fome  cullis  of  cray-fifli ;  fet  it  on  hot 
alhes,  but  do  not  fuffer  it  to  boil,  left  it  Ihould  turn. 

You  may  alfo,  if  thejt  are  in  feafon,  put  therein  fcvc- 
ral  heads  of  aiparagus  or  artichoke  bottoms. 

When  the  ragoo  is  enough,  difh  it,  and  ferve  it  hot. 

This  ragoo  is  to  be  ufed  in  all  forts  of  dilhe?.  with 
cray-fiilu 

A  Ragoo  of  Cray-fish  for  Fijh  days.  Having  firft 
boiled  the  cray-fiih,  pick  them,  laying  their  tails  on  a 
plate,  with  fmaU  mulhrooms  and  truffles  cut  into  dices. 

Put  all  together  into  a  ftcwpan  with  a  litde  fait  and 
pepper,  and  give  them  a  diort  fry  in  fome  butter; 
moiftening  it  with  fome  fifti  broth,  let  it  ftew  on  a  gen- 
de firc;  when  the  ragoo  is  done,  and  relidiing,  take  off 
the  fat,  thicken  it  widi  a  cullis  of  cray-fifli,  didi  it  up, 
and  ferve  it  hot. 

.  This  is  to  be  ufed  in  all  Ibrts  of  diflies  with  cray-fidi 
on  iifli  days. 

%  CREAMS 


(    354    ) 

C    R    E    A    M    S* 

Wheft  you  make  any  kinds  of  cream>  take  Care  that 
yotir  pan  be  clean ;  you  muft  always  boil  your  feafbn- 
ings  in  the  creann,  and  lee  it  ftand  to  cool)  before  you 
put  in  your  eggs,  otherwife  they  lyill  curdle.  Such 
creams  as  are  fet  over  a  ftcwpan  of  boiling  water  to 
thicken^  are  better  don^  with  the  infide  flcin  of  a  fowl 
or  chicken's  gizzard,  than  with  runnet,  as  it  is  not  fo 
apt  to  break  with  the  Ikins.  Take  care  that  the  fire  ia 
not  too  hot  on  the  top,  nor  that  the  water  boil  too  faft, 
or  it  will  brealc  and  fpoil  the  beauty  of  them. 

Ice  Cream.  Pare  twelve  ripe  apricots,  ftone>  and 
jcald  them,  beat  them  fine  in  a  marble  mortar  j  put  to 
Atm  fix  ounces  of  double  refined  fugar,  and  a  pint  of 
icalding  cream,  and  woric  it  through  a  hair  fieve;  put  it 
into  a  tin  or  lead  mould  that  has  a  clofe  cover,  and  will 
hold  two  quarts,  which  is  generally  called  an  ice  well, 
and  fet  it  in  a  tub  of  ice  broke  fmall,  with  a  large  quan« 
tity  of  fait  put  among  it.  When  you  fee  your  cream 
freeze  round  the  edges  of  your  tin,  ftir  it,  and  let 
it  in  again  till  it  grows  quite  thick.  When  your  cream 
is  all  frozen  up,  take  it  out  of  the  tin,  and  put  it  into  the 
mould  you  intend  it  to  be  turned  out  of.  Then  put  on 
the  lid,  and  have  ready  another  tub,  with  fait  and  ice  in 
it  as  before.  Put  your  mould  in  the  middle,  and  lay 
your  ice  under  and  over  it;  let  it  ftand  four  or  five 
hours,  and  dip  your  tin  in  warm  water  when  you  turn 
it  out  J  but,  if  it  be  fummer,  remember  not  to  turn  it 
out  till  the  moment  you  want  it.  If  you  have  no 
apricots,  any  other  fruit  will  anlwer  the  purpofe,  pro- 
vided you  take  care  to  work  them  very  fine  in  your 
mortar.  Rasf 


CREAMS.'  335 

KaspJceX^ream*  Mix  half  a  pound  of  ralp  jam  m 
a  pint  of  thick  cream,  add  to  it  half  a  tea-fpoonfiil  of 
prepared  cochineal  to  give  it  a  fine  colour;  ftrain  ic 
through  a  fieve  to  take  out  the  feeds>  and  proceed  in  all 
reQ)eds  as  abQve,  % 

Ice  Creams,  another  way.  Squeeze  the  juice  of 
eight  iweet  oranges  into  a  bowl,  adding  half  a  pint  of 
water^  and  as  much  fugar  as  will  fweeten  it;  ftrain  i( 
through  a  fieve,  put  it  into  an  ice  well,  and  freeze  it 
till  it  becomes  ftifF;  put  it  into  a  lead  pine-apple  mould, 
wrapped  well  in  paper,  and  let  it  iland  (hree  hours  in  a 
pail,  with  ice  and  fait  under  and  over  it.  When  you  are 
about  to  ufe  it,  dip  the  pineapple  in  cold  water,  turn  it 
put  on  a  plate,  green  the  leaves  of  the  pine-apple  with 
fpinach-juice,  and  garnifli  it  with  green  leaves. 

You  may  put  this  cream  into  orange,  melon,  or  pear 
moulds:  but  if  into  orange  moulds,  you  mud  add  the 
rind  c^one  orange  in  preparing  the  cream;  if  into  me^ 
Ions,  you  muft  green  it  with  fpinach-juice ;  if  into  pears, 
you  muft  ftreak  it  with  red,  made  with  beet  or  cochin 
neal 

Brown  Bread  Cream  Ices.  Take  any  quandty 
of  cream,  prepare  it  as  bef9re,  boil  it  along  with  the 
yolks  of  eggs  and  the  fugar,  pafs  it  through  a  fieve  and 
put  it  in  the  mould;  when  your  cre^m  begbs  to  con- 
geal, have  crumbs  of  brown  bread,  which  you  have  gra- 
ted and  fifted  as  fine  as  powder,  put  it  in  the  mould, 
and  continue  to  work  your  cream  for  congealing.  You 
may  alio  make  this  ibrt  of  cream  with  plain  cream  alone 
without  yolks  of  eggs,  or  boiling,  adding  a  proper  quannty 
of  powdered  loaf-fugar,  and  fet  it  to  congeal,  and  when  it 
begins  to  ice,  then  put  your  fifted  crumbs  of  brown  breads 

But 


^^6  CREAMS, 

But  take  care  to  have  it  finely  fiftcd,  for  it  renders  ic 
infinitely  more  agreeable  to  the  mouth. 

Royal  Cream  Ices.  Take  any  quantity  of  cream^ 
join  to  it  yolks  of  eggs  in  proper  proportion,  put  a  lit- 
de  half  pounded  coriander,  cinnamon,  orange,  or  lemon 
peel,  add  fome  pounded  loaf-fugar,  and  fct  it  on  the  fire 
as  we  faid  before,  till  the  moment  you  fee  it  is  gjoing  to 
boil;  and  then  pafs  it  through  the  fieve  and  fet  it  to  ice 

us  ufual. 

Blanched  Cream.  Seafon  a  quart  of  very  thick 
aeam  with  fine  fugar  and  orange-flower  water j  boil  fc 
and  beat  the  whites  of  twenty  eggs  with  a  little  cold 
cream;  ftrain  it,  and  when  the  cream  is  upon  the  boil, 
pour  in  the  eggs,  ftirring  it  well  till  it  comes  to  a  thick 
curd;  dien  take  it  up,  and  ftrain  it  again  through  a 
hair  fieve;  beat  it  well  with  a  fpoon  till  it  is  cold,  then 
put  it  into  a  dilh: 

Steeple  Cream.  Take  five  ounces  of  hartfhorn, 
and  two  ounces  of  ivory,  and  put  them  in  a  ftone  bottle; 
fill  it  up  with  fair  water  to  the  neck;  put  in  a  linall 
quantity  of  gum-arabic  and  gum-dragon;  then  tye  up 
the  bottle  very  clofe,  and  fet  it  into  a  pot  of  water,  with 
hay  at  the  bottom.  Let  it  (land  fix  hours,  and  then 
take  it  out,  and  let  it  ftand  an  hour  before  you  open  it, 
left  it  fly  in  your  face;  then  ftrain  it,  and  ic  will  be  a 
ftrong  jelly;  then  take  a  pound  of  blanched  almonds, 
beat  them  very  fine,  mix  it  with  a  pint  of  thick  cream, 
and  let  it  ftand  a  little;  then  ftrain  it  out,  and  mix  it 
with  a  pound  of  jelly ;  fet  it  over  the  fire  till  it  is  fcald- 
ing  hot,  fweeten  it  to  your  tafte  with  double  refined  fu- 
gar; then  take  it  ofi^,  put  in  a  litde  amber,  and  pour  it 

into 


i 


CREAMS.  337 

into  fm all  high  gallipots,  like  a  fiigar-loaf  at  top;  when 
it  is  cold,  turn  them,  and  lay  cold  \^pt  cream  about 
diem  in  heaps.  Be  furc  it  docs  not  boil  when  the  cream 
is  in. 

Burnt  Cream.  Boil  a  pint  of  cream  with  a  little 
fugar,  and  a  litde  rind  of  lemon,  then  beat  the  yolks  of 
fix  eggs  and  the  whites  of  three  j  when  the  cream  is 
cdd,  put  in  the  eggs  with  a  fpoonful  of  rofe  water;  let 
j  it  over  the  fire,  and  keep  ftirring  it  till  it  become^ 
I  thick;  pour  it  into  a  diib,  and  when  cold,  fift  fome  fu- 
gar on  the  top ;  tfien  hold  a  hot  falamander  over  it  till 
it  becomes  very  brown. 

Coffee  Cream.  Grind  one  ounce  of  coffee,  and  put 
it  into  three  quarters  of  a  pint  of  boiling  milk,  let  it 
boil  for  ten  minutes,  then  let  it  ftand  a  little  to  fettle; 
pour  it  clear  off  from  the  grounds  into  a  clean  bowl;  add 
to  it  two  ounces  of  fugM*,  with  half  a  pint  of  thick  cream, 
and  put  to  it  the  infide  (kins  of  two  fowls'  gizzards ;  let 
it  ftand  for  one  hour,  ftrain  the  cream  two  or  three 
times  backwards  and  forwards;  then  put  it  into  a  china 
difh,  fet  it  over  a  ftewpan  of  boiling  water,  with  a  cover 
over  it,  and  fome  charcoal  on  the  cover;  itwillfoon  fet: 
when  it  is  done,  fet  it  in  a  cool  place,  and  ferve  it  \ip  for 
a  fecond  courfe,  or  for  fupper. 
-    Tea  Crea  m  is  made  in  the  fame  manner. 

Chocolate  Cream.  Scrape  fine  two  ounces  of 
chocolate  into  a  marble  mortar,  with  a  little  boiled 
cream  to  diflblve  it;  pound  it  for  half  an  hour;  put  it 
into  a  chocolate  pot,  with  one  pint  and  a  half  of  boiling 
cream  j  fet  it  on  the  fire  to  boil,  and  mill  it  all  the  time ; 
put  it  into  a  bowl,  and  fweeten  it  to  your  tafte;  when  it 
is  aimoft  cold,  put  in  two  infide  (kins  of  gizzards,  wafhed 
Vox,,  I.  Xx  clean 


3Ji* 


CREAMS. 


dean;  kt  it  (land  for  one  hour,ftrain  itthrou^  a  piece 
of  muilin  into  a  china  difh,  fct  it  over  a  ftewpan  of 
boiling  water,  with  a  cover  and  fire  on  it  as  before; 
i/^hen  it  is  fet>  take  it  off-,  let  it  cool>  and  ferve  it  up  as 

above. 

Raspberry  Cream*  Put  one  pint  and  a  half  of 
cream  into  a  china  bowl,  add  to  it  half  a  tea-fpoonfuU 
of  cochineal  to  give  it  a  colour,  whifk  it  to  railc  a  fix>th» 
and  as  it  rifes,  take  it  off,  and  lay  it  on  a  fieve  s  when 
you  have  got  as  much  froth  as  will  ferve  to  cover  the 
cream,  put  into  your  bowl  half  a  pound  of  rafp  jam,  mix 
it  well  together,  ftrain  it  through  a  fieve  to  take  the 
feeds  quite  out  of  it;  put  it  into  a  glafs  bowl  or  'deep 
china  dilh,  and  froth  over  it.  It  is  proper  for  a  comer 
diih  for  a  fecond  courfe,  or  a  middle  difli  for  Xupper. 
Strawberries  may  be  done  the  fame  way. 

Hartshorn  Cream.  Boil  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of 
hartfhom  ihavings  in  two  quarts  of  water,  till  it  comes 
to  half  a  pint;  run  it  through  a  jelly  bag,  put  to  it  one 
pint  of  thick  cream,  a  ftick  of  cinnamon,  and  two  laurd 
leaves;  fet  it  to  boil  for  five  minutes;  take  it  ofi^  let  it 
ftand  a  litde,  then  pour  it  into  jelly  glafles,  and  let  it 
ftand  all  night  to  cool :  dip  your  glafles  in  warm  water, 
turn  them  out  into  a  dilh,  and  ftick  them  over  with 
flices  of  almond  cut  longways.  Serve  it  up  for  a  fe* 
cond  courfe,  or  middle  difli  for  fupper.  It  eats  well 
with  white  wine  and  fugar,  like  flummery. 

Lemon  Cream.  To  a  pint  of  water  add  a  pound 
of  double  refined  fugar,  and  a  piece  of  lemon-peel ;  fet 
it  on  the  fire  to  boil,  and  then  let  it  ftand  till  cold ;  beat 
up  the  whites  of  fix  eggs,  and  one  yolk  with  a  tea 
•fpoonfiil  of  orange«flower  water,  fqueeze  the  juice  of  four 

lemons. 


340 


CREAMS. 


or  of  cedra,  a  litde  onuige*flower  water,  and  about  half 
a  pound  of  fugar ;  when  it  is  diflblved,  whip  the  cream 
to  a  fix>th,  and  take  it  up  with  a  (kimmer  }  drain  it  upon 
a  fieve  a  moment ;  if  for  icing,  let  it  fetde  a  good  while 
before  you  put  itin  the  cups  or  gkfles ;  continue  in  this 
manner  to  the  end,  and  ufe  what  drops  in  the  difh  under 
the  fieve  to  make  it  froth  better ;  put  one  or  two  whites 
of  eggs :  any  kind  of  perfumed  waters  may  be  d<Hie  with 
this  cream,  according  to  tafte  and  fancy. 

Codling  Cream.  Take  twenty  codlings,  core  them, 
btat  them  in  a  mortar  with  a  pint  of  cream,  ftrain  it 
into  a  difti,  and  put  intd  it  fome  brown  bread  crurnbs, 
with  a  little  fack,  and  diih  it  up ;  ib  you  may  order  goof- 
berries. 

Cream  of  any  Preserved  Fruit,  Take  half  a 
pound  of  the  pulp  of  any  prcferved  fruit,  jHit  it  in  a 
large  pan,  put  to  it  the  whites  of  two  or  three  eggs  beat 
together  exceedingly  well  for  an  hour,  then  with  a  fpoon 
take  it  off,  and  lay  it  heaped  on  die  difh  or  glafs  falver> 
with  other  creams,  or  put  it  in  the  middle  bafon. 

Ralpberries  will  not  do  this  way. 

Spanish  Cream.  Take  an  ounce  of  ifinglafs  cut 
fmaU,  diflblve  it  in  half  a  pint  of  role  water,  run  it 
through  an  hair  fieve,  add  to  it  the  yolks  of  four  eggs, 
beat  and  muted  widi  three  quarters  of  a  pint  of  cream, 
two  forrel  leaves,  and  fugar  to  your  tafl:e  j  dip  the  difh 
in  cold  water  before  you  put  in  the  cream,  then  cut  it 
out  into  what  form  you  pleafe,  and  Icrve  it  up. 

Barley  Cream.    Take  a  tea-cup  of  barley>  boil  it 

in  milk  and  water  till  it  is  tender ;  then  fbrain  the  Ikjuor 

rom  it,  put  your  barley  into  a  quart  of  cream  and  let 

It 


CREAMS.  341 

a  little,  then  take  the  whites  of  five  eggs  and  the 
if  one  beaten  with  a  fpoonful  offine  flour,  and  two 
fills  of  r9fe  water,  take  the  cream  off  the  fire,  mix. 
;gs  by  degrees,  fet  it  on  the  fire  again  to  thicken, 
;n  it  to  your  tafte  and  fcrve  as  before. 
een's  Cream.  Boil  a  pint  of  cream  till  half  re- 
,  with  fine  fugar,  and  orange-flower  water  -,  when 
old,  snix  it  with  fix  whites  of  ^gs  well  beat  up  j 
it  between  two  very  moderate  fires^  and  let  it  re- 
in its  natural  colour. 

[ENisH  WiKE  Cream.  Put  over  the  fire  a  pint  of 
ilh  wine,  a  fiick  of  cinnamon;  and  half  a  pound  of 

While  tjiis  is  boiling,  take  feven  yolkiand  whites 
TS,  beat  them  well  together  with  a  whilk,  put  them 
jr  wine,  and  ftrike  it  very  faft  with  the  whiflc  till  it 
s  to  thickncls  that  you  may  lift  it  on  the  point  of  a 

but  be  furc  you  let  it  not  curdle  }  add  to  it  the 
of  a  lemon,  and  orange-flonver  water ;  fo  pour  it  in 
dilh,  and  garnilh.it  with  citron,  fugar,  or  bifcuit^ 
;rve  it  up. 

AGUNDY  Cream.  With  a  pint  of  new  milk  boil 
of  lemon-peel,  orange-flower  water,  a  bit  of  fugar ; 
>oil  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  rice  in  a  little  water, 
b  tender  and  becomes  thick ;  then  add  the  milk 
by  a  litde  and  little,  until  all  is  boiled  quite  thick  j 

and  mix  it  well  with  fix  or  eight  whites  of  eggs, 
>eat  up }  put  it  in  Uie  table  difii,  and  bake  it  in  a 
oven,  or  with  a  brazing  pan ;  when  ready  to  ferve, 

it  with  a  little  fugar  flrewed  over  it,  and  the  fala- 
er,  or  a  hot  fliovcl,  to  catch  fllghtly  upon  the  fugar. 
ow  Cream.  Take  a  large  deep  difii,  ftrew  the 
m  widi  fine  fugar  beat  to  powder  i  then  fill  it  with 
a  ftraw- 


i4* 


CREAMS. 


ftrawbcrries ;  take  fome  fprigs  of  rofemary,  ftick  a  large 
6nt  in  the  middle,  and  feveral  round  about,  to  refemUe 
A  tree ;  then  take  a  quart  of  the  thickeft  cream  you  can 
get,  and  the  whites  of  eight  or  ten  eggs  j  thefe  'whiflc 
up  for  half  an  hour,  till  you  have  made  the  froth  very 
ftrong ;  let  it  ftand  ten  minutes,  and  with  a  proper  thing 
take  off  the  froth,  dirow  it  over  your  tree,  and  cover 
your  dilh  well  with  it  j  if  you  do  it  well  it  makes  a  grand 
pile  in  a  defert. 

Spanish  Cream.  Take  three  Ipoonfub  of  flour  of 
tice  beat  very  fine  j  the  yolks  of  three  eggs,  three  (poon- 
fills  of  fair  water,  two  fpoonfuls  of  orange-flower  water, 
mid  mix  them  well  together,  then  put  to  it  one  pint  of 
cream,  fct  it  on  a  good  fire,  keeping  it  ftirring  till  it  is 
of  a  proper  tfiickncfs,  and  then  pour  it  into  your  cups. 

Pompadour  Cream.  Beat  the  whites  erf"  five  eggs 
to  a  ftrong  fi-oth,  put  them  into  a  toffing  pan,  with  two 
poonfiils  of  orange- flower  water,,  two  ounces  of  fugar> 
ftir  it  gently  for  three  or  four  minutes,  then  pour  it  into 
your  dilh,  and  pour  good  melted  butter  over  ir,  and  lend 
it  in  hot.  It  is  a  pretty  corner  dilh,  for  a  fecond  courlc 
at  dinner. 

Almond  Cream.  Blanch  almonds,  bruife  them  fmall 
in  a  mortar,  and  ftrain  them  through  a  ftrainer  with  fair 
water  j  ftrain  them  again  with  thick  milk,  with  a  quar- 
ter of  a  pound  of  fugar  ;  put  them  into  a  pot,  add  a  little 
fait,  and  fet  it  over  die  fire ;  ftir  it  well,  that  it  burn  not 
to  the  pot ;  when  it  is  boiled,  take  it  from  the  fire,  caft 
a  ladle  of  fair  water  into  it,  cover  it  with  a  di(h,  and  let 
it  ftand ;  afterwards  take  a  clean  cloth*  of  an  ell  long,  let 
it  be  held  ftrait,  and  caft  the  cream  upon  it  with  a  ladle^ 
draw  fixjm  under  the  cloth,  the  water  fi-om  the  creamy 
pin  tke  four  corners  together,  and  hang  it  up  again. 

Pistachio 


CUCUMBERS.         34J 

iTACHio  Cream.  Peel  half  a  pound  <rf"  piftachi* 
ernels,  beat  them  very  fine  with  a  fpoonful  of 
y,  put  them  into  a  tofling  pan,  with  a  pint  of  good 
i,  and  the  yolks  of  two  eg^  beat  fine,  ftir  it  gently 
I  very  flow  fire  till  it  grows  thick,  put  it  into  your 
I  i  when  it  is  cold,  fcrve  it  up. 
other  -iVay.  Peel  your  piftachios,  beat  them  very 
n  a  marble  mortar,  boil  them  in  cream ;  if  it  i* 
;reen  enough  add  alittle  juice  (^  fpinach,  diick- 
with  eggs,  fweeten  it  to  your  palate,  pour  it  inta 
s,  and  fet  it  by  till  it  is  quite  cold. 


CHUST.— ^-wPiES. 


CUCUMBERS. 

preftrve  Greek  Cucumbers.  Take  Ibme  Sm2A 
omc  large  green  cucumbers,  free  from  fpots,  and 
^ceneft  you  can  get,  put  them  into  ajar,  and  potu* 
lem  fome  boiling  fait  and  water;  let  them  ftand  for 
ck,  changing  the  water  three  times;  put  them  into 
lis  pan,  with  a  babbage  leaf  under  and  over  them; 
r  them  with  hard  water,  a  little  fait,  and  half  a  pint 
fgar,  hang  them  over  a  flow  fire  till  they  are  quite 
1.  Take  them  out,  and  cut  a  piece  off"  the  end,  or 
»f  the  fide  of  the  large  ones,  and  fcoop  out  the  fcedj 
may  let  them  remain  in  that  form,  or  cut  them  m 
ters,  or  in  flowers,  fprigs,  half  moons,  or  in  what 
1  you  pleafe;  the  fmall  ones  to  remain  whole: 
a  lat^  needle  through  them,  that  the  fugar  may 
penetrate 


544 


CUCUMBERS. 


penetrate  into  them,  and  put  thenn  into  hard  water  for 
two  days  and  nights ;  take  them  out,  weigh  them,  and  to 
every  pound  of  cucumbers  put  a  pound  and  a  half  of 
double  refined  fugar;  make  a  thin  fyrup  of  one  third  of 
it,  and  when  it  is  cold,  put  in  the  cucumbers,  and  let 
them  ftand  for  a  fortnight,  boiling  up  the  fyrup  twice  a 
week  for  that  time.  Clarify  the  remainder  of  the  fugar, 
and  put  to  it  a  few  cloves,  a  ftick  of  cinnamon,  two  nut- 
megs, the  juice  of  two  lemons,  with  the  rinds  cut  like 
ftraws,  and  a  little  ginger  cut  in  flices;  let  them  fim- 
mer  for  ten  minutes,  then  put  in  the  cucumbers,  and  let 
them  fimmer  for  three  minutes  i  take  them  off,  pour 
them  into  the  jars,  and  pour  the  fyrup  over  them; 
when  they  arc  cold,  cover  them  with  a  brandy  paper  and 
a  bladder,  and  keep  them  in  a  dry  cool  place. 

To  pickle  Cucumbers.  Let  your  cucumbers  be  as 
free  fromfpots  as  poflible,  and  take  the  fmalleft  you  can 
getj  put  them  into  ftrong  fait  and  water  for  nine  or  ten 
days,  or  till  they  become  yellow;  and  ftir  them  at  leaft 
twice  a  day,  or  they  will  grow  foft.  Should  they  be- 
come perfedly  yellow,  pour  the  water  from  them,  and 
cover  them  with  plenty  of  vine-leaves.  Boil  it,  pour  it 
upon  them,  and  fet  them  upon  the  hearth  to  keep  warm- 
Do  this  a  fecond  time,  and  proceed  in  this  manner,  till 
you  perceive  they  are  of  a  fine,  green,  which  they  will 
be  in  four  or  five  times.  Be  careful  to  keep  them  well 
covered  with  vine-leaves,  with  a  cloth  and  difh  over  the 
top,  to  keep  in  the  fteam,  which  will  help  to  green 
them  the  fooner.  When  greened,  put  them  in  a  hair 
.fieve  to  drain,  and  then  make  the  following  pickle  for 
them :  To*  every  two  quarts  of  white- wine  vinegar,  p\it 
half  an  ounce  of  mace,  ten  or  twelve  cloves,  an  ounce 

of 


CUCUMBERS.  s^s 
ginger  cut  into  Ilices,  an  ounce  of  black  pepper,  and 
landfill  of  fait;  boil  thenn  all  together  for  five  mi- 
tes, pour  it  hot  upon  your  pickles,  and  tie  them  down 
:h  a  bladder  for  ufe.  You  may  pickle  them  with  ale, 
-vinegar,  ordiftilled  vinegar;  and  you  may  add  three 
(bur  cloves  of  garlic  or  Ihallots. 
Another  way.  Lrt  your  cucumbers  be  frefii  gathered, 
i  always  gather  them  on  a  dry  day;  put  them  into  ^ 

or  pitcher  with  a  narrow  top ;  put  to  them  a  few 
lite  muftjyd  feeds,  a  head  of  garlic>  and  a  few  blades 
mace,  half  an  ounce  of  black  pepper,  half  an  ounce 
long  pepper,  and  put  a  handful  of  fait  to  your  vine- 
r ;  pour  it  upon  your  cucumbers  boiling  hot,  fet  them 
the  fire,  and  keep  them  warm  for  diree  days,  and  boil 
ur  aUegar  once  every  day,  keeping  them  clofc  co- 
red till  they  arc  of  a  good  green.  Tie  them  down 
th  a  leather,  and  keep  them  for  ufe. 
To  pickle  Cucumbers  in  Jlicei.  Taktf  feme  large 
cumbers  before  they  are  too  ripe,  (lice  them  of  die 
cknefs  of  crown  pieces  in  a  pewter  diftii  tq  every 
clve  cucumbers,  (lice  two  large  onions  thin,  and  lb 

till  you  have  filled  your  dilh,  with  a  handftil  of 
t  between  every  row ;  cover  them  with  another 
wter  di(h,  and  let  them  ftand  twenty-four  hcjursj  then 
t  them  into  a  culknder,  and  let  them  drain  .v«y 
11.  Put  them  in  a  jar,  cover  them  over  with  white 
ne  vinegar,  and  let  them  ftand  four  hours;  pour 
:  vinegar  from  them  into  a  copper  faucepan,  and 
il  it  with  a  little  fait ;  put  to  the  cucumbers  a  little 
ice,  a  little  whole  pepper,  a  large  race  ■  of  ginger 
ced,  and  then  pour  the  boiling  vinegar  onj  cover 
Vol,  I.  Y  y  them 


46       CUCUMBERS. 

icm  clofe,  and  when  they  are  cold  tie  them  down, 
'hey  will  be  fit  to  eat  in  two  or  three  days. 

To  pickle  Cucumbers  Mi/tgo  fajhion.  Take  either 
idons,  or  very  large  cucumbersj  pouroverthem  fait  and 
'■ater  boiling  hot;  the  next  day  dry  them.  Cut  a  piece 
ut  of  the  fide,  fcrape  out  the  feed  very  clean,  fill  them 
'ith  garlic,  fcraped  horfc-radifh  and  muftard-feedj  put 
I  the  piece,  and  tie  it  clofe,  then  pour  over  them  boil- 
ig  hot  vinegar.  In  two  or  three  days,  boil  up  the  vi- 
egar,  with  pepper,  cloves,  and  gingerj  throw  in  the 
langoes,  boil  them  up  quick  for  a  few  minutes,  and 
ut  them  into  a  jarj  cover  them  clofe.  The  melons 
lould  be  fmall,  the  cucumbers  large.  If  they  are  not 
reen  enough  bo;!  the  vinegar  again. 

Another  wir^.  Cucumbers  ufed  for  this  purpofe  muft 
c  of  the  lai^ft  fort,  and  taken  from  the  vines  before 
ley  arc  too  ripe,  or  yellow  at  the  ends.  Cut  a  piece 
Lit  of  the  fide,  and  take  out  the  feeds  with  an  apple 
raper  or  a  tea-fpoon.  Then  put  them  into  very  ftrong 
It  and  water  for  eight  or  nine  days,  or  till  they  are 
;ry  yellow.  Stir  tiiem  well  two  or  three  times  each 
ly,  and  put  them  into  a  pan^,  with  a  large  quantity  of 
ine  leaves  both  over  and  under  them.  Beat  a  little 
)ach  alum  very  fine,  and  put  it  into  the  fait  and  water 
ley  came  out  of.     Pour  it  on  your  cucumbers,  and  fet 

upon  a  very  flow  fire  for  four  or  five  hours,  till  they 
■e  pretty  green ;  then  take  them  out  and  drain  them 
I  a  hair  fieve,  and  when  they  are  cold,  put  to  them  a 
ttle  horfcTradilh,  then  muftard-feed,  two  or  three  heads 
"garlic,  a  few  pepper-qirns,  a  few  green  cucumbers 
ced  in  fmall  pieces,  then  horfe-radifh,  and  the  fame  as 
^9rc  rncntioncd,  till  you  have  filled  them,    Then  take 


le  piece  y 
id  thread, 
ady  the  i 
it  half  an 
'fliced  gii 
'T,  and  b 
^  up  in 
irie-radil? 
e  allegar, 
)wn,  and  1 
CucuMB 
Ts,  flice 
ce  fome  c 
:  flour  OT 
me  good 
r  they  mi 
thout  bcii 
icumbersj 
ix  a  little 
ne,  and  v 
To  Ragoo 
ions>  and 
a  fieve,  a 
Is  of  grav 
them  lie 
ttcr  as  bi< 
an  peppe 
h  them  \3\ 
CucuMbi 
nibers,  ar 
;,  put  th 
:e  them  o 


34» 


C    U    L    L    I    S. 


with  an  onion  (hick  with  cloves^  a  good  (lice  of  ham,  a 
quarter  of  a  pound  of  butter,  and  a  litde  fait;  fet  it  over 
the  fire  a  quarter  of  an  hour,  keep  it  clofc  covered, 
flcim  it  well,  and  fhake  it  often,  as  it  is  apt  to  bum ; 
then  dredge  in  a  litde  flour  over  them,  and  put  in  as 
much  veal  gravy  as  will  juft  cover  the  cucumbers  >  ftirit 
well  together,  and  keep  a  gentle  fire  under  it  till  no 
fcum  wilt  rife ;  then  take  out  the  ham  and  onion,  and 
put  in  the  yolks  of  two  e^s,  beat  up  with  a  tea-cupfull 
of  cream  J  ftir  it  well  for  a  minute,  then  take  it  oflT  die 
foe,  and  jiift  before  you  put  it  into  the  difh,  fqueeze  in 
a  little  lemon  juice.  Have  ready  five  or  fix  poached 
eggs  to  lay  on  the  top. 

Cucumbers  fluffed  with  fcrcC'-meat.  Pare  as  many 
cucumbers  as  you  propofe  for  adilh;  take  out  die  mid- 
dle with  an  apple  corer,  blanch  them  a  litde  in  boiling 
water,  and  fill  them  with  a  force-meat  made  of  roafted 
poultry ;  braze  them  with  fome  thin  flices  of  bacon,  a 
iitde  broth,  two  or  three  onions,  a  faggot  of  parfley  and 
fweet  herbs,  one  carrot  fliced,  three  cloves,  a  litde  whole 
pepper  and  fait.  When  done,  drain  and  wipe  them> 
and  ferve  with  a  good  relifhing  cuUis-Iauce, 


C    U    L    L    I    S. 

This  is  a  compofition  for  thickening  ragoos,  fbup9, 
&c.  and  giving  them  an  agreeable  flavour.  Many 
rooks,  however,  are  of  opinion,  that  Lemon  P idle y  and 
Browning  (which  fee  the  latter  page  60)  anfwer  much 
better^  both  for  taile  and  beauty:  they  are  certainly 

much 


C    U    L    L    1    S. 

I  cheaper,  and  prevent  a  great  deal  of  unn 
le. 

-uLLis  for  all  forts  ofRagoas  and  rich  Sauces 
jounds  of  veal,  two  ounces  of  ham,  two-  < 
s,  a  little  nutm^,  a  blade  of  mace,  fome 
,  two  carrots  cut  to  pieces,  fome  ftialots,  I 
s :    fet  thefe  over  a  flove,  in  an  earthen  vel 

do  very  gently  for  an  hour,  clofc  cover 
ig  they  do  not  burn :  put  beef  broth  to  it 
till  it  is  as  rich  as  it  is  required  to  be,  z 

it. 

CuLLis  for  all  forts  of  Butcher's  Miat,  Tl 
jf  your  meat  muft  be  proportioned  to  yo' 
.  If  ten  or  twelve,  you  cannot  take  lefs  th 
eal  and  a  haiin,  with  all  the  fat,  ikin,  anc 
iff.  Cut  the  leg  of  veal  in  pieces  about  th 
of  your  fifl:  j  place  them  in  your  ftewpan, 
dices  of  ham,  two  carrots,  an  onion  cut 
r  it  clofe,  let  it  ftew  foftJy  at  firft,  and  as  i 
:  brown,  take  off  the  cover  and  turn  it,  to 

II  fides  the  fame  j  but  take  care  not  to  1: 
;.     When  it  has  a  pretty  brown  colour, 

cullis  with  broth  made  of  beef,  or  oth( 
n  your  cullis  with  a  little  fweet  baftl,  Tom 
fome  garlick }  pare  a  lemon,  cut  it  in  fli 
it  into  your  cxdlis,  with  fome  mulhrooms. 
wpan  a  good  lump  of  butter,  and  fet 
fire  J  add  to  it  one  or  two  handflils  of  i 
ith  a  wooden  ladle,  and  let  it  take  a  co 
■  cullis  be  pretty  brown,  you  muft  put  fc 
'  foftly  into  it,  keeping  it  ftirring  with  a  W' 
,  then  let  your  cullis  ftew  fofdy,  and  fkim  i 


«<5 


C    U    L 


1    S* 


fiit ;  put  in  two  glaiTes  of  white  wine ;  but  take  care  to 
keep  your  cuUis  very  thin,  fo  that  you  may  take  the  fat 
^  <iflr  and  clarify  it.  To  clarify  it,  you  muft  put  it  in  a 
ftove  that  draws  well,  and  cover  it  clofe,  and  let  it  boil 
without  uncovering  it  till  it  boils  over  -,  then  uncover  it 
and  take  off  the  fat  that  is  round  the  ftewpan,  then 
wipe  it  off  the  cover  alfo,  and  cover  it  again.  When 
your  cullis  is  done,  take  out  the  meat,  and  ftrain  your 
cuUis  through  a  (trainer.  This  cullis  is  for  all  forts  of 
ngoos,  fowls,  pies,  and  terrines. 

A  Cullis  for  Fijb.  Gut  a  large  pike,  and  lay  it 
whole  upon  the  gridfron ;  turn  it  often.  When  done^ 
take  it  off*;  take  oflf  the  fkin,  and  take  the  meat  from 
the  bones ;  boil  fix  eggs  hard,  and  take  out  the  yolks ; 
blanch  a  few  almonds,  beat  them  to  a  pafte  in  a  marble 
mortar,  and  then  add  the  yolks  of  the  eggs ;  mix  thefe 
well  with  butter,  and  puc  in  the  fifh :  beat  them  all  to 
mafli ;  then  take  half  a  dozen  onions,  and  cut  them  into 
dices,  two  parfnips,  three  carrots :  fet  on  a  itewpani 
put  in  a  piece  of  butter  to  brown,  and  when  it  boils 
put  in  the  roots;  turn  them  tUl  they  are  brown, 
and  then  pour  in  a  litde  pea  broth  to  moiften  them. 
When  they  have  boiled  a  few  minutes,  ftrain  it  into  an« 
other  faucepan ;  put  in  a  whole  leek,  fbme  parfley,  and 
fwect  bafil ;  half  a  dozen  cloves,  fome  muihrooms  and 
truffles,  and  a  few  crumbs  of  bread :  let  it  ftew  gendy  a 
quarter  of  an  hour,  and  then  put  in  the  fifh  from  the 
mortar;  let  it  flew  fome  time  longer*  It  mufl  not  boil 
up,  becaufe  that  would  make  it  brown*  When  it  is 
.done,  ftrain  it  through  a  coarfe  fieve. 

It  ferves  to  thicken  all  madediflies,  and  fbups  for 
Lent* 


C    U    L    L    I    S.'  3J1 

luLLis  of  Craw-jijh,  Get  the  middling  fort  of  craw- 
put  them  over  the  fire,  feafoned  with  fait,  pepper, 
onion  cut  in  tlices.  Being  done>  take  them  out, 
:  them,  and  ke^  the  tails  after  they  are  fcalded; 
nd  the  reft  together  in  a  mortar  ;  the  more  they  are 
nded,  the  finer  your  cuUis  will  be.  Take  a  piece 
eal  about  the  fize  of  your  fift,  widi  a  fmall  piece  of 
I,  an  onion  cut  into  four,  put  it  in  to  fweat  gendyi 
fticks  but  very  little  to  the  pMi,  powder  it  a  litdc  j 
!len  it  with  broth,  put  in  it  fome  cloves,  fweet  bafil 
ranches,  fome  mulhrooms,  with  lemon  pared  and 
in  flices.  When  done,  fkim  the  fat  well  ofl;  let  it 
jf  a  good  tafte }  then  take  out  your  meat  with  a 
imer,  and  go  on  to  thicken  it  with  a  little  eflence  of 
I J  put  in  your  craw-filh,  and  ftrain  it  off;  being 
ned,  keep  it  for  a  firft  courfc  of  craw-filh. 
(am  CuLLis.  This  is  done  with  flices  of  veal  fiUec 
ham  fufficient  to  give  it  a  pretty  (trong  tafte ;  add 
brts  of  roots ;  then  add  broth  without  fait,  a  glafi 
hitc  wine,  a  nofegay  of  thyme  and  parflcy,  half  a 
d  leaf,  one  clove  of  garlic,  a  few  muihrooms  and 
lots. 

'  WHITE  CuLLis.  Cut  a  piece  of  veal  into  fmall  bitSj, 
;  fome  thin  flices  of  ham,  and  two  onions  cut  into 
pieces;  moiften  it  with  broth,  feafoned  with  mu(h- 
ns,  a  bunch  of  parfley,  green  onion,  and  three 
csj  let  itftew.  Being  dewed,  take  out  all  your 
t  and  roots  with  a  fkimmer,  put  in  a  few  crumbs  of 
id,  and  let  it  ftew  foftly;  take  the  white  of  a  fowl,  or 
chickens,  and  pound  it  in  a  mortar;  when  well 
tided,  mix  it  in  your  cullis,  but  it  muft  not  boil, 
your  cutlis  mull  be  very  white;  but  if  it  is  not 

white 


3S^ 


CURRANTS. 


white  enough,  you  muft  pound  two  dozen  of  fwect  al- 
monds blanched,  and  put  into  your  cullis.  Let  it  be 
of  a  good  tafte,  and  ftrain  it  off,  then  put  it  in  a  fmall 
kettle,  and  keep  it  warm.  You  may  ufe  it  for  white 
loaves,  white  cruft  of  bread  and  bifcuits.  ' 

A  Family  Cullis,  Take  a  piece  of  butter  rolled  in 
flour,  ftir  it  in  your  ftewpan  till  the  flour  takes  a  fine 
yellow  colour;  then  add  fmall  broth,  a  litdegravy,  a 
glafs  of  white  wine,  a  bundle  of  parfley,  thyme,  laurel, 
and  fweet  bafil,  two  cloves,  a  little  nutmeg  or  mace,  a 
few  mufli rooms,  whole  pepper,  and  laltj  boil  for  an 
hour  on  a  flow  fire,  fift  it  through  a  lawn  fieve,  well 
flcimmed  from  fat.  The  cullis  is  made  either  with  meat 
or  fifti  broth,  according  to  your  fancy. 

A  Cullis  of  Roo/s.  Take  feme  carrots,  parfnips, 
parfley-roots,  and  onions;  cut  them  in  flices,  put  them 
into  a  ft:ewpan  over  the  fire,  and  fliake  them  round; 
take  a  dozen  and  a  half  of  blanched  almonds,  and  the 
crumb  of  two  French  rolls,  foaked  firft  in  good  fifli 
broth;  pound  them  with  the  roots  in  a  mortar,  then 
boil  all  together;  feafon  them  with  pepper  and  fait,  and 
ftrain  it  ofi^,  and  ufe  it  for  herb  or  fifli  foups. 


<m» 


CURRANTS, 

Thefe  are  of  three  forts;  the  red,  the  white,  awl 
black;  but  the  two  former  are  in  moft  general  ufe; 
they  are  of  a  pleafant  acid,  and  accounted  very  whole- 
fome  fruit,  aflTuaging  thirfl:,  cooling  and  ftrcngthening 
the  fl:omach,  and  aflifliing  digeftion* 

To  dry  Currants    in  bunches. — ^See  Candying^  page 


Currants.  3s3 

Yo  preferve  Red  Currants  in  bunches.  Gather  the 
efl  and  largeft  rtd  currants  you  can  get,  tie  them  up 
bunches  to  a  fmall  fkewer  two  inches  long  j  to  a 
und  of  cuitants  put  oile  pound  and  a  half  of  double 
ined  fugar  into  &  preferving  pan>  widi  a  pint  of  water, 
il  it  fifteen  minutes,  and  let  it  fUnd  to  cool ;  put  in 
:  bunches,  put  paper  clofe  to  them,  and  fet  them  by 

I  next  day,  then  make  them  fcaldii^  hot.  Set  them 
again  for  three  days,  then  fet  them  on  to  boil  for  three 
inutes;  take  them  off,  and  put  them  into  dte  pot  j 

II  the  fyrup  a  little  thicker,  when  it  is  cold,  pour  it  oa 
;  currants,  and  cover  them  with  brandy  paper. 

To  make  Red  or  ff^ite  Currant  Jelly.  Gather  the 
rrants  when  they  are  ripe,  ftrip  them  o£F  the  flalks, 
ih  them  clean,  put  them  into  a  jar,  tie  a  paper  over 
mt),  and  let  them  fiand  in  a  flow  oven  to  infufe  till  all 
^  juice  comes  out ;  then  ftrain  it  through  a  cloth  or  a 
m  fieve ;  meafure  it,  and  to  every  pint  of  juice  yoa 
jft  have  one  pound  of  fine  fugar ;  clarify  it,  and  fkim 
:lean ;  put  in  the  juice,  boil  it  till  it  will  jelly,  fkim 
well,  and  put  into  pots  or  glafTes  i  when  CoM,  cover 
frith  brandy  paper,  tie  it  down  with  paper  and  blad- 
r,  and  keep  it  in  a  cool  dry  place. 
Mother  way.  Take  two  quarts  of  red  currants,  and 
0  quarts  of  white,  pick  and  wafh  them  clean,  and  put 
;m  into  a  preferving  pan,  with  half  a  pine  of  water  ; 
it  over  a  flow  fire  to  fimm^  till  all  the  juice  come* 
t,  flrain  it  through  a  lawn  fieve,  and  for  every  pint  of 
ce  take  one  pound  of  fine  fugar  j  put  it  into  a  prcfer- 
ig  pan,  and  to  every  pound  of  fugar  put  half  a  pint  of 
Iter ;  boil  it  till  it  is  candy  height,  and  put  in  the 
ce ;  boil  it  till  it  jellies,  which  you  may  know  by  put- 
VoL.  I,  Z  z       ^  ting 


354 


CURRANTS. 


ting  a  litde  in  a  (poon  to  cool ;  if  it  jellies,  it  is  enoughs 
Put  It  in  the  pots,  and  cover  it  as  before. 

i>iw>frCuRRANT  Jbllv.  Gather  the  currants  when  they 
aire  ripe,  pick  and  wa(h  them  clean,  and  put  them  into 
9  jar  that  will  hold  them.  To  fix  quarts  of  currants 
put  oiie  quart  of  water,  tie  them  down  with  brown  pa-: 
per,  and  put  them  in  a  flow  oven  for  two  hours.  Take 
them  out,  and  drain  them  through  a  thin  cloth  or  fiicve  5 
£ar  one  quart  of  juice  you  mud  have  two  pounds  of  fu- 
gar ;  clarify  the  fugar  to  a  candy  height,  put  in  the  juice 
and  boil  it  till  it  jellies  ^  put  it  in  pots,  and  cover  it  as 
before. 

•  jR^/^CurrantJaMv  Take  two  pounds  of  red  currants, 
^hen  they  are  quite  ripe,  put  them  in  a  preferving  pan, 
and  boil  them  for  ten  minutes ;  put  them  through  a  hair 
fieve  to  take  out  the  feeds,  then  into  a  preferving  pan 
with  one  pound  and  a  quarter  of  fine  lligar,  fifted,  fet  it 
over  a  fire,  and  bpil  it  fifteen  minutes,  ftirring  it  all  the 
time ;  Ikim  it  clean,  put  it  in  pots,  and  cover  it  as  be« 
fore. 

-B^j^it  Currant  Jam,  Pick  two  pounds  of  ripe  black 
currants,  bruifc  them  fine  with  a  wooden  fpoon,  put 
them  in  a  preferving  pan  with  one  pound  and  a  half  of 
loaf- fugar  beaten  fine  j  boil  it  twenty  minutes,  Ikim  and 
air  it  all  the  time ;  put  it  into  pots,  and  cover  it  as  be- 
fore. 

Black  Currant  Wine.  Boil  fix  gallons  of  water,  put 
It  into  a  tub,  and  when  it  is  near  cold,  add  to  it  thirty- 
fix  pounds  of  black  currants  bruifed,  let  them  ftand  for 
two  days,  and  ftrain  the  juice  through  a  fieve,  add  to  it 
twenty  pounds  of  loaf-fugar,  and  a  little  yeaft ;  let  It 
ftand  for  three  days,  ftirring  it  three  times  each  day  j 

2  .  turn 


CUSTARDS.  35J 

turn  it  into  a  barrel,  with  two  quarts  of  brandy ;  when 
it  is  done  fermenting,  ftop  it  clofc  down,  keep  it  for 
twelve  monthsj  and  then  bottle  ir. 

Red  C-u kran.t'Wikz.  To  four  gallons  of  water  add  fif- 
teen pounds  of  fugar,  and  boil  it  for  ten  minutes  j  poiir 
it  into  a  clean  tub,  and  when  it  is  near  cold,  add  to  it 
twenty  pounds  of  red  currants  bruifed,  fix  pounds  of  red 
rafps,  and  a  litde  yeaft  j  let  it  ferment  for  three  day.', 
ftirring  it  three  times  a  day ;  then  ftrain  it  through  a 
fieve,  and  prefs  the  currants  dry ;  turn  it  into  a  clean 
caflc  that  will  juft  hold  it,  wilJi  one,quart  of  bi^ndy; 
when  it  has  done  fermenting,  ftop  it  clofc  dow.-i,  keep 
it  twelve  months,  then  bottle  it. 

You  may  make  white  currant  wine  the  fame  way, 
only  ufe  white  rafps  inftead  of  red. ' 

f^hite  CuRRAKT  Wine,  or  EngHJb  Champaign.  Boil 
three  gallons  of  water  with  twelve  pounds  of  loef-fugar, 
put  it  into  a  tub,  and  when  it  is  near  cold,  add  to  it 
four  quarts  of  wliite  currants  picked  and  bruifed,  the 
juice  of  eight  lemons,  the  rind  of  one  pared  thin,  and 
twoTpoonfuls  of  yeaft ;  let  it  ferment  for  three  days,  then 
ftrain  it  through  a  fieve,  and  turn  it  into  a  caflc  that  will 
juft  hold  it,  with  a  pint  and  a  half  of  brandy.  When  it 
has  done  working,  ftop  it  clofc  down,  keep  it  for  fix 
pionths,  dien  bottle  it. 


CUSTARDS. 

A  Vafie  for  Custards.     Take  a  pound  of  flour, 

twelve  ounces  of  butter,  the  yolks  of  four  e^s,   fix 

Z  z  2  fpoon- 


;6  CUSTARDS. 

oonftils  of  cream ;  mix  them  together,  and  let  them 
ind  a  quarter  of  an  hour,  then  work  it  up  and  downi 
id  roll  it  very  thin. 

To  make  a  Custard.  Boil  a  quart  of  milk  or  cream, 
ith  a  ftick  of  cinnamon,  large  mace,  and  quartered 
jtmeg,  when  half  cold,  mix  it  with  eight  yolks  of  eggs 
id  four  whites  well  beat,  Ibme  fklt,  (tigar,  and  orange- 
Dwcr  water :  fet  all  -on  the  fire,  and  (tir  it  till  a  white 
oth  arifes,  which  fkim  off,  then  flrain  it,  and  fill  your 
■ufb,  which  Ihould  be  firft  dried  in  the  oven,  and  which 
ju  mull  firft  prick  with  a  pin  before  you  dry  them,  tt> 
rcvent  their  riGng  in  blifters. 

Another  Custard.  Take  a  quart  of  cream  and  boU 
with  a  blade  of  mace,  beat  ten  eggs,  leaving  out  half 
le  whites ;  take  the  mace  out,  and  when  almoft  cold 
sat  in  the  e^s,  with  one  fpoonful  of  orange-flower 
ater;  fweeten  it  to  your  tafle,  and- put  it  "into  your 
uflard  cups,  and  let  them  but  juft  boil  up  in  the  ovenj 
nd  if  you  boil  the  e^s  in  the  cream  all  together,  then, 
qlu  may  put  it  in  your  cuftard  ci^s  the  oyer  night,-  and 
ley  will  be  fit  for  ufe. 

To  make  a  Cream  Custard.  Take  the  cri^  of  a 
>eiiny  loaf,  grate  the  crumb  very  fine  and  mix  with  it  a 
pod  piece  of  butter,  and  a  quart  of  cream,  beat  the 
oiks  of  twelve  eggs  .with  cream,  fweeten  them  with 
jgar,  let  them  thicken.over  the  fire,  make  your  cuftards 
lallow,  bake  them  in  a  gende  oven,  and  when  they  arc 
akcd  enough,  ftrew  fine  fugar  oyer  them. 

Almond  Custard.    See  Mmonds. 

To  make  a  Rice  Custard.    Boil  a  quart  of  cream 
'ith  a  blade  of  mace,  then  put  to  it  boiled  rice  well  bea- 
ten 


CUSTARDS.  357 

I  with  your  crcam^  pm  them  together,  and  ftir  them 
the  while  it  boils  on  the  flrej  when  it  is  enough^  take 
aff  and  fweeten  it  to  your  ^fte,  put  in  (pme  ^fc  viaxas 
ve  them  cold. 

To  make  a  Plain  Custard.  Sweeten  a  quart  of  neir 
Ik  to  your  tallcj  grate  in  fome  nutmeg,  beat  up  eight 
gs,  Ipave  out  half  the  whites,  ftir  them  into  the  milk» 
d  baike  it  in  china  balbns,  or  put  them  in  a  faucepaa 
boiling,  water,  taking  care  that  the  water  does  noC 
me  above  halfway  up  the  balbns,  for  fear  of  getting 
0  the  b^fons.  You  may  add  fame  rofe  water  in  the 
ikif^  or  a  fmall  glafs  of  brandy, 
i^  Custard  Puddino.  Put  apiece  of  cinnamon  in 
lint  of  thick  cream;  boil  it;  add  a  quarter  of  a  pound 
fugar ;  when  cold,  add  the  yolks  of  five  eggs  wdl 
iten ;  ftir  this  over  the  fire  till  pretty  thick,  but  ^ou 
)uld  not  let  it  boil.  When  quite  cold,  butter  a  doth 
U,  duft  it  over  with  flour,  tie  the  cuftard  in  it  verjr 
iTe,  boil  it  three  quarters  of  an  hour.  When  taken 
',  put  it  into  a  bafon  to  tool  a  litde ;  untie  the  cloth, 
'  die  dilh  on  the  baton,  turn  it  up.  If  the  clodi  is  noC 
ten  oflF  carefully,  the  pudding  will  break  j  grate  over 
a  litde  fygar.    Melted  bqtter  and  a  little  wine  in  a 


D. 

pAFFY'5   ELIXI  R.—Sec  Tinctures. 


C    358    1 

D  A  I  R  Y  -  M  A  I  D. 

Un4er  the  articles  of  butter  and  cheefe  we  have  en- 
tered fo  fully  into  the  bufinefs  of  the  dairy ^  that  we  have 
only  to  add  here  a  few  neceffary  cautions  to  the  fervant 
who  undertakes  this  employment. 

Cows  Ihould  always  be  milked  at  a  regular  hour ;  for 
the  detention  of  the  milk  not  only  tends  to  fpoil  it,  but 
keeps  the  animal  in  violent  pain :  in  fummer,  the  time 
of  milking  fhould  not  be  later  than  five  in  the  evening, 
that  they  may  have  time  to  fill  their  bags  by  morning, 
and  their  udders  fhould  be  well  emptied  at  each  milk- 
ing. 

Cows  in  general  require  gentle  treatment,  efpecially 
if  their  teats  happen  to  be  forc;  for  if  roughly  handled, 
they  will  not  only  kick  and  wince,  and  become  wild  and 
ungovernable,  but  even  retain  their  udders  half  full  of 
milk ;  in  confequence  of  which  their  bags  get  hard  .and 
ulcerous,  or  they  lofc  their  milk  entirely  till  they  calve 
again. 

"When  the  milk  is  brought  in,  it  fhould  be  well 
drained,  and  emptied  into  clean  pans.  White  ware  pans 
arc  of  all  others  preferable  on  the  fcore  of  cleanlinefs ; 
the  brown  fort  is  very  porous,  and  fcarce  any  fcalding 
will  be  fufficient  to  cleanfe  them  thoroughly.  Leaden 
troughs  are  much  ufed,  but  they  readily  receive,  and  for 
a  long  time  retain  any  degree  of  heat.  Want  of  clean- 
linefs is  no  where  fo  unpardonable  as  in  the  dairy,  where 
indeed  the  fuccefs  of  every  operation  depends  upon,  and 
requires  that  not  only  the  utenfils,   but  the  drefTers, 

Ihelves>  walls,  and  floor  fhould  be  kept  exceeding  clean 

and 


^DAMSONS.  35J 

I  well  ^rcd :  and  in  hot  weather  they  may  be  frc- 
:ntly  fluiced  with  cold  clean  water, 
the  PouUiyyard  alfo,  (which  generally  is  in  the  dairy 
id's  province)  and  the  place  where  they  rooft,  cannot 
kept  too  clean,  for  on  clcanlinefs  depends  the  hcaltk 
I  very  exiftence  of  the  fowls:  they  fhould  be  fed 
ce  a  day  at  regular  hours,  as  foon  after  fun-rife  as  cofli- 
licnt,  and  about  two  in  the  afternoon  j  and  fiiould 
ays  have  plenty  of  water  in  their  drinking  troughs, 
I  clean  ftraw  in  their  nefts.  When  cooped  up  to  fat- 
,  they  Ihould  be  kept  warm,  in  a  gloomy  phice,  un- 
urbed,  have  always  meat  and  water  before  them  : 
jf  Ihould  be  carefully  cleaned  every  day,  and  nevCT 
fqiFered  to  fight. 


0 

DAMSONS  OR  DAMASCENES. 
rhcy  are  dried  and  preferved  in  the  fame  manner  aJ 
tn-gages,  &c.  See  Candying,  page  174, 
Oamascene  Dumplings.  Having  made  a  good  hot 
te  cruft,  roll  it  pretty  thin,  lay  it  in  a  bafon,  and  put 
i  proper  quantity  of  danfufcenes;  wet  the  edge  of  the 
le,  and  clofe  it  upj  boil  it  in  a  cloth  one  hour,  and 
d  it  up  whole;  pour  melted  butter  over  it,  and  grate 
;ar  round  the  edge  6f  the  difli.  N.  B.  Dumplings 
y  be  -made  from  any  kind  of  preferved  fruit,  in  the 
le  maijaci;.. 


VEAFNESS.— iVfEAR. 

D  E  C  E  M- 


C  36s  ] 

bECEMBEli. 

"f  his  month  affords  the  follomng  articles  for  ths 
table: 


MEAT. 

Snipe*. 

Sblcf, 

Brocoti, 

tiO, 

TeU, 

Sturgeon^ 

RocoinboIe» 

Tiirkiesi 

Tur&rt, 

Sallaly, 

Houfelamb, 

Wigeons, 
Wild  ducki. 

Tcilch. 

Savoys, 

Mutton, 

I...I. 

Scorionei*! 

Brt, 

..  ■    ■ 

VEGETABLES. 

Skirreis, 

Veal. 

rtsii. 

Beets, 

Spinaclu 

^s 

Borecole, 

Sallad, 

FODLTKT. 

Cabbage., 

Turnip^ 

Caponi, 

Codling., 

Cardoons, 

Chicliciu, 

Dorces, 

Carrol., 

FRDITS 

Took, 

Eets, 

Celery, 

Chernutt, 

Geete, 

Haddocks, 

Creffci, 

Ham, 

Gudgeons, 

Endive, 

MetUari, 

Lat1», 

Gurnets, 

Efchalot. 

Panridges, 

Holobuf, 

l«ki. 

Oranges, 

Fhcaianii, 

Lobfters, 

Onion., 

Peari, 

te," 

Salmon, 

Faifnipt, 
Poiaioei, 

Services^ 
Wabuts; 

Rabbiu, 

Smelu, 

Pot  herbs, 

DINNERS    OF    TWO    COURSES. 
Firfl  Courfi. 

Peafc  Soup,  removed  with 

A  jowi  of  lalmon, 

Kgeons  in  Tun  falliion.  Calvet  Head  \  la  fiin>rU«. 

Sa\lad, 

For  qoarter  of  Iamb  roaited.  Fricafee  of  ok  palatcti 

Fetty  patties. 

Mint  faucc.  Fcntwl  &ac«* 

Bfcuf  U'cmblanta 

Sheep  tongues  fliced.  MutHta  kritotfd. 

Farlley  faiicc.  Melted  butter* 

Turltey  pie. 

Harricot  of  venifon.  Breaft  «f  Veal  portiqiiMd 

Brocoli. 
Two  chickens  boiled.  Hogs  fcCtaUtin  fSfBo'a* 

11am  roailed. 


DECEMBER.  ,^€i 

SectHJ  eoar/t. 

Two  wild  duck*  rosficd. 

MiDce  pie*.  Pean.  P^  de  more. 

Ueoo  of  euirei        Pohed  veoHbtlt      Ra^  of  cock'i  cmibti, 

jAedlan.  Cbelautt. 

Dtten  frame  with  dried  Iweet- 

Binuauljdliett 

Larkf  roaSedi  Snipet  foafted. 

Walauti.  Onpei. 

Btvra. 

tewed  lobflcr.  Sptnadi  and  cmiQ> 

Applet. 

Tutleti.  Crcasi  pancakca* 

{breroafted. 


DlNNIItS  OF  THREB  COURSES. 

FIrf  Cnrl>. 

Cod',  bed. 

CUekol. 

Stewed  bief. 

Fneandoaofvaalt 

bandpiiMgg. 

SoapSinU. 

Calmfeapi.. 

'illet  of  poiL 

Chin  of  lamb. 
SoalifncdaodboUd 

SMutCnrfi. 
Wild  fowli. 

Onmge  puffi. 

fji^ty. 

Jc1Ue>. 

StiujeoB. 

Gallmtiiie. 

Sarsurycuea 

Tutleu. 

TRmu. 

futridgea. 

Ragoo'd  palatet. 

2>utdi  bref  fcraped. 

Savoy  cakel.  ChW  oRUigot. 

Half  mooDt 

tjunbttailt.  Calvci  bun; 

Potted  larks. 

Jucoocl  pe^.  Lemon  bilcuitii 

Fiicafce  of  craw-iUh. 

Vouh  Aaa  DECOC 


t  362  1 


DEC  O  C  T  I  O  N  S.        .     ' 

Watery  decoi^ions-  and  inftifiens  of  vegetables  con- 
[litute  a.  large  and  not  unufeful  clafs  of  medicines.  Al- 
though raoft  vege.tables-  yield  their  virtues  to  water,  as 
weft  by  infufion  as  decoction,  yet  the  latter  is  often  ne- 
cefiary,  a»  it  fives  time,  and  does  in  a  few  minutes- what 
the  odier  would  require  hours,  and  fometimes  days  to 
rffeft.  The  mwiicines  of  this  clafs  are  all  inKnded  for 
immediate  ufe. 

DECOCTION  of.  Mthaa.  Take  of  the  rooti  of 
marfh- mallows,  moderately  dried,  three  ounces;  raifins 
of  the  fun,  one  ounce;  water,  three  pints.  Boil  die  ih- 
gredients  in  the  water,  till  one  third  of  it  is  confijmed; 
ifterwarda  ftrain  the  decoftTon,  and  let  it  ftand  for 
Tome  time  to  fettle.  If  the  ropts  be  thoroughly  dried, 
they  muft  be  boiled  rill  one  half  the  water  be  confumed, 
[n  cougfis  and  IharpdeBudtions  on  the  lungs,  this  decoc- 
tion may,  be  ufed  for  ordinary  drink. 

The  common  Decoction.  Take  of  camomile  flow- 
ers, one  ouncej  elder  flowers,-  and  fweet  fennel  feeds,  of 
Each  'h^f  an  ounce ;  water,  two  quarts.  Boil  diem  for 
1  little,  and  then  Arain  the  decodion.  A  medicine 
equally  good  may  be  prepared  by  infiifuig  the  ingre- 
dients for  feme  hours  in  boiling  water.  This  decoc- 
tion is  chiefly  intended  as  the  bafis  of  elyllers,  to  which 
Dther  ingredients  may.  be  occafionally  added.  It  will 
iikewife  fervc  as  a  common  fomentarioti^  fpirit  of  wine 
}r  other  things  being  added  in  fuch  quanticy  a  ibe  cafe 
Bay  require, 

'"  D'ecoc- 


D-ErC^Q  G  T  I  0,N  S,^  ^4j 

■  'Dvcoc^ioy.of  X^Vfod,  Boil  three  ounces  of  the 
ihavingSi,  or  chifa.pf:  logwood,  in  four  pints  of  water 
rill  one  h*lf  the  liqyor  U  wafted.  Two  or  tljree  ounces" 
offimple  cinnamon-water  inay  be  added  tpthisdecoftion. 
In  kuxKXsS  the  ,bcUy,.  a  t^a-cupful  of  -this  deco£tion 
nriay  be  ^kci*  with  -advantage  three  or  iEbur  timep  ^ 

*^Y- [     \         '   ■■' 

-  .TiviafCj^ov  of  the  Bark.  BoU  an  ounqe  of  the  Peru- 
yi^  ^ark,  grofly  powdered,  in  a  pint  and  a  half  of  water 
p),one  pinti  then  ftrain  the  decoiftion.  If  a  tea-fpoon- 
ful  of  the  we4t  fpirit  of  vitriol  be  added  to  this  medicine, 
it  will  .make  it  both  more  agreeable  and  efficacious. 
,  Con^tmnd  Decoction  of  the  Bark.  Take  of  Peru- 
vian bark  ind  Virginian  fnake-root,  ^o/ly  powdered, 
each  three  drams,  Bo)l  thenn  in  a  pint  of  water  to 
one  half.  To  the  ftrained  liquor  add  an  ounce  and  a 
tulf  of  aromatic  water. 

The  dofe  is  four  fpoonfuls  every  fourth  Or  fixth  hour. 

■  Sir  John  Pringle  recommends  this  as  a  proper  medi- 
cine towards  the  decline  of  malignant  fcVers»  when  the 
pulfe  is  loiW,  the  voice  weak,  and  the  head  affcfted  with 
a^por  but  with  little  dolinum. 

OzcocTiQN  <^  Sarfapanlls,  Take  of  frefh  far&pa- 
rilk  rppti  diced  and  bruifedj,  two  ounces;  fiiavings  of 
gu^iacum  wood,  one  .ounce.  Boil  over  a  flow  fire,  in 
three  quarts  of  water,  to  onej  addingtowards  the  end, 
half  an.  ounce  of  faflafiras  wood,  and  three  dra^n;  of 
liquorice  powder.    Strain  the  decoction. 

This  ftrcngthens    ihe  ftomacb^  and  reftorcs  frelh 

vigour  to  habits  emaciated  by  fcorbutic  complaints. 

It  may  alfo  be  taken  in  the  rheumatifm^  and  cutaneous 

A  a  &  %  -  dif* 


S4  DECOCTIONS. 

ilbrdera  proceeding  &om  foulnds  of  the  blood  and 
liccs,  For  all  thefe  intentions  it  is  greatly  prefcrablo 
)  ^c  decoStm  of  woods.  This  decoftion  may  be  taken 
opi  a  pint  4nd  a  half  to  two  quarts  in  the  day. 

The  fbllowing  deco£tion  is  faid  to  be  fimilar  ro, 
id  may  fupply  the  place  of  the  UJbon  diet  drink  .* 

T^e  of  rarfaparilla,  two  ounces ;  liquorice  and 
lezeroop  root,  of  each  half  an  ounce;  Ihavings  c£ 
uaiacum  an(l  faflafras  wood,  of  each  one  ounce;  crude 
ntimony  powdered,  an  ounce  and  a  half;  infufe  thefe 
igredicnts  in  eight  pints  of  boiling  water,  for  twenly- 
mr  hours,  then  boil  rfiem  till  one  half  of  the  water  is 
anfuiped,  afterwards  ftrdn  the  deco£tion.  This  majr 
e  ufed  in  the  fame  njanner  as  the  preceding. 

ff'bite  Dbcoction.  Take  of  die  pureft  chalky  in 
owdcr,  two  ounces  j  o£  gum  arable,  half  an  ounce  j 
-ater,  three  pints.  Boil  to  pne  quart,  and  ftrain  the 
ccoftion. 

Thi^  is  a  proper  drink  In  acute  difeafes  attended 
'ithj  or  inclining  to,  a  loofenefc,  and  where  acididcs 
bound  in  the  ftomach  or  bowels:  it  is  peculiarly  pro- 
er  for  children  when  afflifted  with  fourncls  in  the  IhK 
lach,  and  for  perlbns  who  arc  fubje£t  to  the  heart- 
urn.  It  may  be  fweetened  with  fugar  as  it  is  ufrd, 
nd  two  or  thr^  ounfxs  of  fimple  cinnamon  watcf 
dded  «)  it, 

An  ounce  of  powdered  chalk,  mixed  with  two  pints 
f  vatefj  will  pccafionally  fupply  the  place  of  this  dc-» 
ofUgn,  and  4(0  of^^  chalk  julep. 


DESERTS, 


P  £  S  £  R  T  S.-^ee  Orhamsnts, 


P    E    V    I    L. 

The  gizzard  and  rump  of  a  turkief,  or  dte  rump 
if  a  goc^e,  is  frequently  taken  faxn  the  bird  when 
[reOed,  and  being  cut  a  little  way  into  the  fubftanc^ 
s  peppered  well,  faltcd,  and  broiled :  in  this  ftate  it  is 
erved  up  agaiB,  and  being  very  laT<»7  and  rdiiliing, 
at  obtained  the  turn  of  a  Devil, 


PIE  T.— See  Health. 


P I  S  T I  L  L I  N  G.— See  Watbrs. 


DRAUGHTS. 

This  is  a  proper  form  for  exhibiting  fuch  medicinei 
IS  are  intended  to  operate  immediately,  and  which  da 
lot  need  to  be  frequently  repeated,  as  purges,  vomiD^ 
md  a  few  othen,  which  are  to  be  taken  at  one  dofe. 
Where  a  medicine  requires  to  be  ufed  for  any  length  of 
time,  it  is  better  to  imke  up  a  large  quantity  of  it  at 
uice,  which  faves  both  trouble  and  expence. 

Jxotfyiu  Dradoht.    Take  of   liquid  laudanuav 

[weotjTTfivc  drops  i  fimple  cinnamon  water,  an  ounces 

common 


366  D  R  ^  Vif  H  T  S. 

common  fyrup,  two  drams;  mix  them.  In  exccHive 
pain,  wher^;Wccding;Ss_not  jiece&iy,^[id«i  great  reft- 
leffnefs,  this  compofing  draught  may  be  taken,  and  re- 
peated occafionally.     ~~  -       - 

Diuretic  Draught.     Take  a£  the.diuretjc  fait,  two 
fcruplesj    fyrup   of  poppies,  two  dFams;    fimple  cin- 
BWMjn  water,  ind-oonamon  water,  of  each  an  oupce. 
Tiwf  draught  is  of.  fcrvicc  in  an  ob£bu£ticm  or  ^e&-% 
■  ckocf  of  mine.  5 

■,  fgrgiw^  Draijobt3\  Take  of  manna,  »i  outicej 
^tdiLclanar,  or  rochel  fait,  from  threato  four  draBis; 
diflblve  in  three  ounces  of  boifing  water,  to  whidi  4^ 
Jamaica  pepper  water,  half  an  ounce.  As  manna  fome- 
limes  will  not  fit  upon  fhe  flomach,  an  ounce  or  ten 
drams  of  the  bitter  purging  ialtt,  dJffolved  in  four 
punces  of  water,  may  be  taken  inftead  of  the  above. 
Thofe  who  cannot  trite- feks,  may  ufe  the  following 
draught:  Take  of  jalap  in  powder,  a  fcruplej  common 
water,  an  ounce;  aromatic  tinflure,  fix  drams.  Ruh 
the  jalap  with  twice  its  \;rei^t  .of  fpgar,  and  add  to  it 
the  other  ingredients. 

Sweating  Dr'Auoht,  Take  fpirit  of  Mindcrerus, 
two  ounces  j  fait  of  hartlhorD,  five  grains ;  fimple  cin- 
Ban)on  water,  and  fyrup  of  poppies,  of  each  half  an 
ouncei.make  them  into  a  draught. 

In  recent  colds  and  rheumatic  complaints,  thii 
■taught  is  of  fcrvice;  to  promote  its  effefts,  Tipw- 
cver,  (be  patient  o\jght  to  drink  freely  of  warm  water-- 
gruel,  or  of  fome  other  weak  diluting  liquor. 
,  Fmiii^  DRijUQHTS-  Ta^e  of  ipecacuanhji  ih 
powder*  a  Cfruj^ei  water,  ap  ounce  j  fimple  fyrup^  a 
(Jraflti^    mix   them.     Perfona  who  rctjuirc'a  Ilfongei: 

vomic 


^« 


D  R  O  P  S  Y. 


The  Anafarca^  which  is  a  coUeftion  of  water  dndef 
the  fkin,  generally  begins  with  a  (welling  of  the  feet  and 
ancles  towards  night,  which>  for  fome  time,  difappears 
in  the  morning.  In  the  evening,  the  parts,  if  prefied 
with  the  finger,  will  pic.  The  fwelling  gradually  ai^ 
cends,  and  occupies  the  trunk  of  the  body,  the  iarms» '' 
and  the  head :  afterwards  the  breathing  becomes  di& 
ficiilt,  the  urine  is  in  a  fmall  quantity ^  and  the  thirft' 
great;  the  body  is  bound,  and  the  perfpiration  is  greadf 
4>bflTu£):ed.  To  thefe  fucceed,  heayine&,  a  flow  wafting 
fever^  and  a  troublelbme  cough.  This  laft  is  generally 
«  fatal  (ymptom,  as  it  fhews  that  the  lungs  are  af^ 
fe5ted. 

In  an  Afcites^  or  a  coUeAion  of  water  in  the  belly^ 
befides  the  abore  fymptoms,  there  is  a  fwelling  of  the 
belly,  and  often  a  fluftuation,  which  may  be  perceived 
by  ftriking  the  belly  on  one  fide,  and  laying  the  palm 
of  the  hand  on  the  oppofite :  this  may  be  diftinguiihed 
from  a  tympany  by  the  weight  of  the  fwelling,  as  well 
as  by  the  flu&uation.  When  the  Jnafarca  and  Afcitet 
are  combined,  the  cafe  is  very  dangerous:  even  a  fimplc 
afcites  fcldom  admits  of  a  radical  cure :  almoft  all  that 
can  be  done  is  to  let  off  the  water  by  tapping,  which 
feldom  affords  more  than  a  temporary  relief. 

The  patient  muft  abftain,  as  much  as  pofliUei  from 
all  drink,  efpecially  weak  and  watery  liquors,  and  muft 
quench  hb  thirft  with  muftard-whey,  or  acids,  as  juice 
of  lemons,  oranges,  forrel,  or  fuch  like :  his  food  ought 
to  be  dry,  of  a  ftimulating  and  diuretic  quality,  as 
toafted  bread,  the  flefh  of  birds,  or  other  wild  animals, 
roaftedi  pungent  and  aromatic  vegetables,  as  garlic^ 
muftardf  onions,  crefles,  horfe-radi(h»  rocambole^  ftial- 

lot, 


J 


D  R  O  P  S  V*  S«f 

bt,  Sec.  he  may  alio  eat  lea  btflcet  dipped  in  wine ; 
This  is  not  only  nourilhing,  but  tends  to  quench  thtrft : 
lome  have  been  actually  cured  of  a  (Jropfy,  by  a  tQtal 
abftinence  from  all  liquids,  and  living  entirely  upon 
fuch  things  as  are  mentioned  above.  If  the  patient 
mull  have  drink,  the  Rheniih  wine,  with  diuretic  me^ 
dicincs  infiifed  in  it.  are  the  be& 

Exercije  is  of  the  greateft  imponance  in  a  dropfy. 
If  the  patient  be  able  to  walk,  dig,  or  the  like,  he  oug^t 
to  continue  thefe  exercifcs  as  long  as  he  can :  if  he  i& 
not  able  to  walk  or  labour,  he  muft  ride  on  hoHeback, 
or  in  a  carriage,  and  the  more  violent  the  motion,  io 
much  the  better,  provided  he  can  bear  it:  his  bed 
ought  to  be  hard,  and  the  air  of  hit  apartments  warm 
and  dry ;  if  he  lives  in  a  damp  country  he  ought  to  be 
renioved  into  a  dry  one,  and,  if  polBble,  into  a  warmer 
cliinate ;  in  a  word,  every  method,  fhould  be  taken  tQ 
promote  the  perfpiration,  and  to  ivace  the  foUds: 
for  this  purpofc  it  will  likewife  be  proper  to  nib  the 
patient's  body,  two  or  <hree  times  a  day,  with  a  har^ 
cloth,  or  the  fiefli  brufli ;  and  he  ought  conl^antly  to 
wear  flannel  neat  hts  flcin. 

If  the  patient  be  young,,  his  conftituuon  good,  and 
the  difcftfe  has  come  on  fuddenly,  it  may  genet;ally  be 
removed  by  ftrong  vunits,  brifk  purges,  and  fuch  me- 
dicines as  promote  a  difcharge  by  fweat  and  urin$. 
Fm-  young  peoplf;,  half  a  dram  of  ipecacuanha  in  powder, 
and  half  an  ounce  of  oxymel  of  iquills,  will  be  a  proper 
vomit.  This  may  be  repeated  as  often  as  is  found 
neceflary,  three  or  four  days  intervening  between  die 
dofes :   the  patient  nrtuft  not  drink  much  after  taking 

Vol,.  L  B  b  b  die 


DROPSY. 

vomit,  oUierwife  he  deftroys  its  effefts :  a  cup  or 
of  camomile  tea  will  bt  fufficient  to  work  it  off. 
etwixt  each  vomit,  on  one  of  the  intennediatc  days, 
patient  may  take  the  following  purge :  Jalap,  in 
der,  half  a  dram ;  cream  of  tartar,  two  drams ; 
mel,  fix  grains ;  thefe  may  be  made  into  a  bolus, 
1  a  little  fypjp  of  pale  rofcs,  and  taken  early  in  the 
ning :  the  fcfs  the  patient  drinks  after  it  the  bet- 
if  he  be  much  griped  he  may  take  now  and  then 
]p  of  chicken  broth. 

"he  patient  may  !ike\vife  take  every  night  at  bed- 
r,  the  following  bolus ;  To  four  or  five  grains  of 
iphor  add  one  grain  of  opium,  and  as  much  fy- 
of  orange-peel  as  is  fufficient  to  make  them  into  a 
is:  this  will  generally  prottiote  a  gcntte  fweat, 
:h  ihould  be  encouraged  by  drinking  now  and  then 
lall  cup  of  wine  whey,  with  a  tea-fpoonfuU  of  the 
its  of  hartihom  in  it.  A  tea-cupfiill  of  the  fot- 
ing  diuretic  infijfion  may  likewife  be  taken  every 
'  or  five  hours  through  the  day : 
i'ake  juniper  berries,  muftard  feed,  and  horfe-radifh, 
ach  half  an  ounce;  afhes  of  broonN,  half  a  pound; 
ife  them  in  a  quart  of  Rhenifh  wine,  or  ftrong  ale, 
a  few  days,  and  afterwards  ftrain  off  the  Hquor:  fuch 
:annot  take  this  infufion  may  ufe  the  decoAion  of 
:ka  root,  which  is  both  diuretic  and  fudorific.  Ob- 
ate  ana/areas  have  been  cured  by  an  infufion  of  the 
Fs  of  broom  in  wine.  {See  Chervil,  p.  220.} 
The  abov«  courfe  will  often  cure  an  incidental  drop- 
if  the  conftitution  be  good ;  but  when  the  difeafe 
ceeds  from  a  bad  habit,  or  an  unfound  ftate  ofthe 
ard  parts,  ftrong  purges  and  vomits  are  not  to  be 
2  ven- 


f)i  DROPSY. 

-  Kthc  patient  is  too  weak  to  ufe  othei*  exercife  •fter 
taking  die  powder,  the  body  and  limbs  may  be  rubbed 
with  a  flannel,  from  time  to  time,  during  the  hour  and 
half,  giving  reft  at  intervals  according  to  ftrength  %  and, 
indeed,  the  practice  of  this  exercife  for  fome  minutes 
every  night  tnd  morning,  may  be  of  ^eat  help. 

The  quantities  direfted  in  the  recipe  have  been 
given  alike  to  men  and  to  women,  and  there  never  has 
been  found  reafon  to  think,  that  they  were  too  little 
fer  the  one,  or  too  much  for  the  other. 

Nothing  can  be  more  gmtle  and  fafe  than  the 
OperatiOft  of  this  remedy,  and  it  often  has  little  or  no 
lenfiUe  one.  If  the  dropfy  is  in  the  body,  it  difcharge£ 
it  by  urine,  without  any  inconvenience ;  if  it  is  betwcoi 
the  Attn  and  flelh,  it  caufes  blifters  to  arife  on  the  legs, 
by  which  it  will  run  off;  but  this  does  not  happen  to 
more  than  one  in  thirty,  and  in  this  cale  no  plaifters 
rtiuft  be  ufed,  for  they  would  hinder  the  difcharge,  but 
yOKi  muft  apply  red  cabbage  leaves.  If  the  difordcr  is 
^ufed  by  wind,  it  difpets  the  phlegm  chat  retains  the 
wind.  It  cures  the  dropfy  in  pregnant  women,  with- 
out injury  to  the  mother  or  the  infant.  It  aUb  ttnrs 
the  afthma,  conftimption,  and  diforders  of  the  liver. 
k  is  good  for  bleeding  at  the  nofc,  and  for  venemoos 
bites  and  poifons. 

The  efficacy  rf  the  above  remedy  he  been  proved 
by  the  cure  of  upwards  of  ffty  dropfical  women  with 
child,  and  by  that  (^  more  than  tbret  hunirei  o&er 
people  of  both  feses. 

Not  long  fince  this  recipe  was  reconuncnded  to  a 
bdy,  who  fcemed  to  be  in,  or  nearly  in,  the  laft  ftagc  of 
■a  dropfy:  Ihe  was  fo  much  fwoln,  that  ibe  xppcAred  like 

a  wo- 


DROPSY.  873 

votttm  in  the  laft  month  of  her  ^nffmicf,  and  iw 

ifordcr  had  refilled  every  thing  that  had  been  done  fog 
cr  by  the  faculty.  She  todc  the  broom  feed,  but  could 
lot  t^e  the  whole  of  the  oil  j  however,  in  a  very  few 
nonths,  her  hufband  wrote  a  letter  of  thanks  for  her 
peedy  and  furprifing  recovery. 

Soon  ^ter,  the  report  of  this  extraordinary  cure  in* 
luced  another  lady,  who  was  aiHifted  with  a  dropfy,  to 
nake  trial  of  the  remedy  :  Ihe  was  noC  fo  much  fwola 
s  the  former  lady,  but  Ihe  was  exceedingly  emaciate^ 
nd  was  fo  weak,  that  Ihe  was  carried  like  an  in&nt  ini* 
CT  carriage,  when  Ihe  went  to  cake  the  air ;  and  flie 
ad  Billed  of  relief  ^m  the  advice  of  two  of  Am 
idl  eminent  phyficians  in  London,  who  had  pro* 
lOunced  it  an  afciws,  with  ehcyfted  watfcr.  f£ip- 
Hf  they  were  -too  liberal  mind^  to  fet  their  hcek 
W^A  the  remedy,  as  fome  others  have  fince  don^ 
ccaufe  it  was  not  of  their  acqu^tance.  This  lady 
idlawed  the  diredions  of  the  recipe  very  exaftly,  and 
OS  refiored  to  health  in  a  few  months. 

Thefe  fuccefles  induced  the  lady,  at  whofc  defire  it 
ns  puWiflied,  to  recomnwnd  the  remetiy  with  avidity 
rtienever  occafion  offered  j  and  it  has  pleafed  God  to 
TOwn  her  endeavours  with  fuch  wonderful  fuccels,  that 
be  thinks  flie  may  venture  to  affirm,  that  ihe  has  nevet 
3k)wn  it  fiul  to  cure,  when  taken  according  to  the  i^* 
ipe,  and  while  there  was  any  degree  of  ftrengdi  rcr 
naiiongi  and  that  it  is  almoU  as  certain  a  fpecihc  for 
be  dropfy,  as  the  bark  is  for  the  intermitting  fever. 

^he  Dropsy  in  the  Brain,  or  H'^ater  in  tbe  Head,  is  a 
lilbrder  to  which  children  are  more  than  others  pccu- 
iarly  liable  j  but  for  the  cure  of  which  no  medical 

treat- 


574  DUCKS- 

treatment  has  yet  betn  difcovered  of  any  degree  of  effi- 
tacy. 


•^^■* 


D R  Y IN G  F R U I T S.    See  CANDyiNc. 


<4^>«m 


DUCKS. 

■ 

.  To  chuji  tam^  or  wild  Ducks.  The  former  oug^t  to 
jbe  ckofen  plump  and  thick  on  the  breaft;  their  bills  wi^ 
ht  tender  if  young ;  but  hard  if  they  are  old.  A  right 
inrild  duck  has  reddifh  legs  and  feet  s  the  webs  are  of  a 
darkifh  colour^  and  it  is  fomething .  fmaller  than  the 
tame  one. 

7b  roaft  Ducks.  Kill  and  draw  your  ducks  j  then 
ihred  an  onion  and  a  few  fage  leaves  i  feaibn  thefe  widi 
fait  and  pepper,  and  put  them  into  your  ducks.  Sing^ 
duft,  and  bafte  them  widi  butter,  and  a  good  quick  fire 
will  roaft  them  in  twenty  minutes ;  for  the  quicks  diey 
are  done,  the  better  they  will  be.  Before  you  take  them 
up,  duft  them  with  flour,  and  bafte  them  with  butter,  to 
give  them  a  good  frothing  and  a  pleafing  brown.  Your 
gravy  muft  be  made  of  the  gizzard  and  pinions,  an  onion^ 
a  tea-fpoonfiill  of  lemon  pickle,  a  few  pepper-coms,  a 
large  blade  of  mace,  a  fpoonfuU  pf  catchup,  and  the 
fame  of  browning.  Strain  it>  pour  it  into  your  diib> 
and  fend  it  up  with  onion  fauce  in  a  bafon. 
I  Another  way.  Seafon  them  with  fage  and  onion  Ihred, 

pepper,  and  fait  j  half  an  hour  will  roaft  them ;  gravy 
fauce,  or  onion  fauce.  Always  flew  the  fage  and  onion 
in  a  littlft  water,  as  it  prevents  its  eating  fb'ong,  and 
takes  off  th.e  rawnefs. 


DUCKS.  37J 

irefs  Ducks  with  green  Peafi.  Half  road  your 
put  it  into  fomc  good  gravy,  with  a  little  mint, 
firce  or  four  fage  leaves  chopped ;  ftew  this  half  an 
thicken  the  gravy  with  a  little  flour,  throw  in  half 
:  of  green  peas  boiled,  or  ibme  celery,  then  take 
le  mint. 

hit  Ducks,  with  Onion  fauee.  Scald  your  ducks 
Ira*  them,  put  them  in  warm  water  for  a  few 
KS,  then  take  them  cut ;  put  them  in  an  earthen 
tour  over  them  a  pint  of  boiling  milk,  let  them  lie 
two  or  three  hours.  When  you  take  them  out, 
e  them  well  with  flour,  put  them  in  a  copper'  of 
vatcr,  cover  them,  and  boil  them  flowly  for  twenty 
;cs,  then  fmoihcr  them  with  onion  fauce. 
rcKS  3-la-mode.  Slit  two  ducks  down  the  back, 
wne  them  carefully,  make  a  force-meat  of  the 
D  of  a  penny  loaf,  four  ounces  of  fat  bacon  fcraped, 
:parfley,  thyme,  lemon-peel,  two'fliallotsoroiiions 
very  fine,  with  pepper,  fait,  and  nutm^,  and  two 
ftufi^  your  ducks  with  it,  and  few  them  up ;  lard 
down  each  fide  of  the  breaft  with  bacon,  dredge 
well  with  flour,  and  put  them  in  a  Dutch  oven  to 
1 ;  then  put  them  in  a  fliewpan,  with  three  pinti 
ivy,  a  glafs  of  red  wine,  a  tea-fpbonftil  of  lennon 
r,  a  large  one  of  walnut  and  muftroom  catchup^ 
if  browning,  and  one  anchovy,  with  kyan  pepper 
iir  tafte ;  ftew  them  gently  over  a  flow  fire  for  an 
When  enough  diicken  your  gravy,  and  put  in  a 
■uflles  and  morels  ;  ftrain  your  gravy,  and  pour  it 
dicm.  You  may  J-la-mode  a  goofe  the  fame  way. 
jSnothtr 


^6  DUCK   S. 

Another  way.  Cut  two  fine  docks  into  quarters,  fry 
them  in  butter  a  little  brown  j  then  pour  out  all  the  fat, 
and  throw  a  little  flour  over  them>  and  half  a  pint  o£ 
good  gravy,  a  quarter  of  a  pint  of  red  wine,  two  ihallots^ 
an  anchovy,  and  a  bundle  of  fweet  herbs  $  cover  them 
clofc,  and  let  them  ftew  a  quarter  of  an  hour  j  take  out 
the  herbs,  Ocim  off  the  fat  and  let  your  fauce  be  as  thick 
as  cream.    Garnifh  with  lemon. 

Ducks  ^-la-brahe.  Drefs  and  finge  your  ducks,  lard 
them  quite  through  with  bacon  rolled  in  (hred  parfley, 
thyme,  onions,  beaten  mace,  cloves,  pepper  and  fait ; 
put  in  the  bottom  of  a  ftewpan  a  few  dices  of  fat  bacon, 
two  or  three  dices  of  veal  or  beef  j  lay  your  ducks  in 
with  the  bread:  down,  and  cover  the  ducks  with  flices,^ 
the  fame  as  put  under  them ;  cut  in  a  carrot  or  two,  a 
turnip,  one  onion,  a  head  of  celery,  a  blade  of  mace,  four 
Of  five  cloves,  a  little  whole  pepper,  cover  them  clofe 
down,  and  let  them  fimmer  a  litde  over  a  gentle  fire  till 
^e  bread:  is  a  light  brown ;  then  put  in  fome  broth  or 
water,  cover  them  as  clofe  down  again  as  you  can ;  ftew 
them  gently  between  two  and  three  hours  till  enough  5 
;hen  take  pardey,  onion,  or  diallot,  two  anchovies,  a  few 
gcrkins  or  capers  ;  chop  them  all  very  fine,  put  them 
into  a  ftewpap,  with  part  of  the  liquor  from  the  ducks, 
a  little  browning,  and  the  juice  of  half  a  lemon ;  boil  it 
up,  and  cut  the  ends  of  Uxe  bacon  et^^n  with  the  bread 
of  ypur  ducks,  lay  them  on  your  diih,  pour  the  fauce 
hot  upon  rficm,  and  ferye  them  up. 

Another  way.  Lard  your  duck,  put  a  dice  or  two  of 
beef  at  the  bottom  of  the  veflel,  then  the  duck,  a  bit  of 
bacon,  and  Ibme  more  beef  diced,  a  carrot,  an  onion,  a 
dice  of'  lemon,  whole  pepper,  a  bunch  of  fwcct  herbs  5 

cover 


DUCKS.  377 

vrcr  this  dqfffj  fee  it  over  the  Ere  a  few  minutes,  fhake 
1  fome  Jlour,  pour  in  near  a  quart  of  beef  broth  or 
oiling  water,  a  little  red  wine  heated ;  ftew  it  about 
alf  an  hour,  ftran  the  fauce,  Ilcim  it,  put  to  it  kyan, 
nd  more  wine,  if  neceflarf,  Ihallot  and  tarragon  chop- 
ed,  a  very  little  juice  of  lemon.  If  agreeable,  add  ar- 
ichpke  bottoms,  boiled  and  quartered. 

Macedonian  Ducks.  Cut  four  artichoke  bottoms 
ito  pieces,  and  put  them  into  boiling  water,  with 
bout  a  pint  of  garden  beans,  firft  fcalded  and  hulked  t 
oil  thefe  together  till  atmofl  done,  then  drain  them,  and 
ut  the  whol?  into  the  ftewpan,  with  a  good  piece  of 
utter,  chopped  mulhrooms,  a  little  winter  lavory,  . 
larfley,  and  fhallots,  all  Bnely  choppedi  add  a  little  flour, 
vo  fpoonfuls  of  veal  gravy,  and  a  glafs  of  white  wine, 
iid  limmer  Oowly  till  all  is  well  done ;  reduce  the  fauce 
3  a  proper  confiftence,  and  when  ready  to  ferve,  add  a 
tdc  cullis,  lemon  juice,  fait,  and  pepper.  Serve  this 
agoo  under  two  ducks,  cut  into  quarters,  and  brazed 
1  a  well  fcafoncd  braze,  with  dices  of  veal  and  lard,  a3 
ifual. 

To  boil  a  Duck  a-la-Fran^oife.  Put  a  pint  of  rich, 
cef  gravy  into  two  dozen  roafted  chefnuts  peeled,  witli 

few  leaves  of  thyme,  twolhfiall  onions  (if  agreeable), 
litde  whole  pepper,  and  a  race  of  ginger ;  then  take 
fine  tame  duck,  lard  it,  half  rooft  it;  put  ic  into  th« 
ravy,  let  it  ftew  ten  minutes,  adding  a  quarter  o(  a  pint 
f  red  wine.  When  the  duck  is  enough,  take  it  out, 
oil  up  the  gtavy  to  a  proper  thicknels ;  Ikim  it  very 
lean  from  &t,  lay  the  duck  in  the  difli>  and  pour  the 
mce  over  it. 

Vol.  I.  C  c  c  29 


'8  DUCKS. 

To  hajh  a  wild  Duck.  Having  cut  up  your  dacfc  «» 
r  eating,  put  it  in  a  EolTing  pai,  with  a  fixwnful  of  good 
avy,  the  fame  of  red  wine,  and  an  onion  fliccd  excced- 
gly  thin.  When  it  has  boiled  two  or  three  minutes, 
^  the  duck  in  the  difti,  and  pour  the  gravy  over  it. 
ou  may  add  a  tea-fpoonful  of  caper  liquor,  or  a  little 
owning  j  but  remember  that  the  gravy  muft  not  be 
ickencd. 

To  haJh  Ducks  'different  zatt^s.  Roaft  two  ducks  till 
ree  parts  done,  and  let  them  cool ;  then  cut  the  breaft 
thin  dices,  anti  take  care  to  preferve  the  gravy.  The 
js  will  ferve  for  another  difh,  which  you  may  drcfi  by 
apping  them  in  caul  with  a  good  force-meat,  and 
■ve  with  cullis  iiitce.  For  the  fillets,  cut  cucumbers, 
d  marinade  them  about  an  hour,  with  a  little  vinegar 
t,  and  one  onion  flicedi  then  take  out  the  onion, 
Liceze  the  citcumbers  in  a  cloth,  and  put  them  into  a 
wpan  with  a  bit  of  butter,  a  (lice  of  hani,  a  little  broth, 
ur,  and  veal  gravy  ;  boil  ilowly,  ikim  it  well,  take  out 
c  ham,  and  add  the  meat  to  it,  to  warm  without  boil- 
;,  You  may  alfo  do  the  fame  with  chopped  truffles, 
mullirooms,  or  any  thing  elfe  yOu  think  proper,  ac- 
rtling  to  fcafon.  A  coM  roaftert  duck  will  anfwer 
jch  the  feme  end'for  this  dilh.- 

Another  way.  When  cut  to  pieces,  flour  it ;  put  into 
iewpan'fome  gravy,  a  little  red  wine,  fliallot  chopped, 
k,  pepper,  and  a  [ijece  of  lemon ;  boil  this,  pm  in  tfic 
ck,  tofs  it  up,  take  out  the  lemon.  Toafted  fippets. ' 
ToJir.v  Docks.  Lard  three  young  ducks  down  each 
e  the  breaft,  duft  them  with  flour,  and  fet  ihem  be- 
c  the  fire  to  brown ;  then  put  them  in  a  ftewpin,  with 
a  quart 


DUCKS.  379 

quart  of  water,  a  pint  of  red  wi  tie,  one  fpoonful  of 
alnut  catchup,  the  fame  of  browning,  one  anchovy, 
Ufa  lemon,  a  clore  of  garlic,  a  bundle  of  fwect  herbs, 
yan  pepper  to  your  taftc ;  let  them  ftcw  flowly  for  half 
1  hour,  or  till  they  are  tender ;  lay  them  on  a  dilh  and 
ecp  them  hot,  fldm  off  the  fat,  ftrain  the  gravy  through 
hair  fievc,  add  to  it  a  few  morels  and  truffles,  boil  it 
uick  till  reduced  to  a  little  more  than  haif  a  pint,  pour 

over  your  ducks,  and  ferve  it  up.  It  is  proper  for  a 
ic  difli  for  dinner,  or  bottom  for  fuppcr. 

Jaoiher  way.  Lard  your  duclc  or  not,  half  roaft  it, 
ut  it  inK)  a  ftcwpan,  with  a  pint  or  more  of  good  gravy, 
quarter  of  a  pint  of  red  wine,  onion  chopped  fmall,  or 
lallot,  a  piece  of  lemon-peel,  kyan,  and  fait ;  ftew  it 
intly,  clofe  covered,  till  tender;  take  out  the  duck, 
:im  the  fauce,  boil  it  quick,  pour  it  over  the  duck, 
]d  truffles  and  morels,  if  agreeable.    . 

DucKLiKG  rolled.  Make  a  good  force-meat  with 
■eafts  of  roafted  poultry,  as  ufual ;  cut  a  pretty  large 
uckling  in  two,  bone  it  thoroughly,  and  lay  on  the 
rce-meat ;  roll  it  up,  tic  flices  of  lard  round  it,  and 
jil  rt  in  a  litde  broth,  with  a  glafs  of  white  wine,  a  fag- 
>t,  and  two  cloves.  When  done  fquee2c  the  fat  gendy 
It,  and  wipe  the  duck  clean.  Serve  with  what  fauce 
)u  pleafe.  Small  ducklings  may  be  dreffed  in  the 
me  manner,  obferving  only  that  they  muft  not  be  cut 

two. 

To  dre/s  a  wild  Duck  sn  perfeElion.  Half  roaft  your 
ick,  lay  it  in  a  difh,  carve  it,  but  leave  the  joints  hang- 
g  together ;  throw  a  Hide  pepper  and  fait  over  ir,  and 
ueeae  the  juice  of  a  lemon  over  it  j  turn  it  on  the 
C  c  c  a  breaft, 


38(5  D  UTVI  FLINGS. 

breaft,  and  prds  it  hard  with  a  plate,  add  to  its  own 
gravy  two  or  three  Ipoonfuls  of  good  gravy  ;  cover  it 
with  another  dijh,  and  fet  it  over  a  ftovc  ten  minutes ; 
then  fend  it  to  table  hot  in  the  difh  it  was  done  in,  and 
garnifli  with  lemon.  You  may  add  a  little  red  wine, 
and  a  Ihallot  cut  fmall,  if  you  like  it ;  but  it  is  apt  to 
make  the  duck  eat  hard,  unlefs  you  firft  heat  the  wine, 
and  pour  it  in  jufl  as  it  is  done. 

Wild  Dock,  WicEON,  orEASTERttwo  tnperfeSion. 
Half  roaft  them ;  when  they  come  to  table,  flice  the 
breaft,  ftrew  on  pepper  and  fait,  pour  on  a  litde  red  wine, 
and  fqueeze  the  juice  of  an  orange  or  a  lemon  over  it  j 
put  fome  gravy  to  this,  fet  the  plate  on  a  lamp,  cut  up 
the  bird,  let  it  remain  over  the  tamp  till  enough,  tur« 
ning  it. 


DUMPLINGS. 

Hard  Dumplings.  Put  a  little  fait  into  fome  flour 
and  water,  and  make  it  into  a  pafle  ;  roll  them  in  ball^ 
fomewhat  larger  than  a  turkey's  egg.  duft  theni  (jver 
with  flour,  and  throw  them  into  boiling  water;  half 
an  hour  will  boil  them.  They  are  beft  boiled  with  a 
good  piece  of  beef.  For  a  change  you  may  add  a 
few  currants.  ' 

Norfolk  Dumplings.  To  half  a  pint  of  milk  put  two 
eggs  and  a  Htde  fait,  and  makethem  into  a  good  thick 
batter  with  flour.  Have  ready  a  clean  faucepan  of  wa- 
ter boiling,  and  drop  your  batter  into  it,  and  two  or  three 
minutes  will  boil  them.  Be  panicularly  careful  that  the 
water  boiis  faft  when  you  put  the  batter  in.  Then  throw 
theiii  into  a  fieve  to  drain,  tqrn  them  ipto  a  difl^,  and 

ftir 


1 


38*  DYSENTERY; 

This  ought  to  make  people  extremely  cautious  m  going 
near  iiich  perfons  as  laixiur  under  the  difrafe.  Eveit 
the  fmell  of  the  patient's  excrements  has  been  known  to 
confiniunicate  the  infeftion. 

It  commences  by  a  flux  of  the  belly  attended  widi 
violent  pain  of  the  bowels,  a  confl:ant  inclination  to  go  to 
ilool,  and  generally  more  or  lefs  blood  in  the  ftools.  It 
begins,  like  other  fevers,  with  chilnefs,  lofs  ofibcngth, 
3  quick  pulfe,  great  thirft,  and  an  inclination  lo  vomit. 
The  ftools  are  at  firft  greafy  or  frothy,  afterwards  they 
are  ftreaked  with  blood,  and,  i^  laft,  have  frequently  the 
appearance  of  pure  blood,  mixed  with  fmall  filaments 
refembling  bits  of  Jkin.  Worms  are  fomcrimes  paflcd 
downwards  through  the  whole  courfe  of  the  diieafe. 

Wl^n  the  dyfentery  attacks  the  old,  the  delicate,  or 
fuch  as  have  been  wafted  by  the  gout,  the  fcurvy,  or 
other  lingering  difcafes,  it  generally  proves  fatal.  Vo- 
miting and  hiccuping  are  bad  figns,  as  they  (hew-  an 
inflammation  of  the  ftomach.  When  the  ftools  arc' 
green,  black,  or. have  an  exceeding  difagreeable  fmell, 
the  danger  is  very  great,  as  it  Ihows  the  difeafe  to  be  of 
the  putrid  kind.  It  is  an  unfavourable  fymptom  when 
clyfters  are  immediately  returned;  but  ftill  more  fo, 
when  the  paflTage  is  fo  obftinately  (but,  that  they  cannot 
be  iiyefted.  A  feeble  pulfe,  coldnefs  of  the  extremities, 
with  difficulty  of  fwallowing,  and  convulfions,  are  figns 
of  approaching  death. 

Nothing  is  of  more  importance  in  this  difeafe  than 
cleanlinefs.  It  contjibutes  greyly  to  the  recovery  of 
the.  patient,  and  no  lefs  to  the  fafety  of  fijch  as  attend 
him.  In  all  contagious  difeafes  tlie  danger  is  iricreafed, 
and  the  infection  fpread,  by  pegleft  of  cleanlinefs ;  but 


L  N  T  E  R  T.  ■      38J 

■■,  Every  thing  about  the  patient 
tanged.  The  excrements  fhould 
idnue  in  his  chamber,  but  remo- 
buried  under  ground.  Aconibmt 
ould  be  admitted  into  the  room, 
ly  to  be  fprinlded  with  vinegar, 
ifr  other  ftrong  acid, 
lot  be  difcouTtiged,  but  his  fpirits 
:ure.  Nothing  tends  more  to  ren- 
Tiortal,  than  the  fears  and  appre- 
All  difeafes  of  this  nature  have  a 
ieprels  die  fpirits;  and  when  that 
d  alarms  from  thofe  vhom  the 
perfons  of  ikill,  it  cannot  6ul  to 
ence. 

worn  next  the  (kin  has  often  a 
le  dyfcntery.  Tiiis  promotes  the 
'erheating  the  liody.  Great  cau- 
ry  in  leaving  it  off;  A  dyfentery 
r  impnidendy  throi#ing  off  a  flan- 
he  feafon  «as  fufficiently  warm. 
m  this  piece  of  drels  is  worn,  it 
Fbut  in  a  warm  feafon. 
;reattft  attention  muft  be  paid  tqf 
^,  Bib,  and  every  thing  that  has 
itrid  or  rancid  on  the  ftotnach, 
I.  Apples  boiled  in  milk,  water* 
udding,  with  broth  made  of  the 
nals  may  be  eaten.  Jelly  broth  not 
)fe  of  food,  but  likcwifc  of  medi- 

Thc 


384  DYSENTERY. 

The  manner  of  making  this  broth  \s,  to  take  a  fheq>'s 
head  and  feet  with  the  ikin  upon  them,  and  burn  the 
wool  off  widi  a  hot  iron;  afterwards 'toboil  them  till  the 
broth  is  quite  a  jelly.  A  little  cinnamon  or  mace  may 
be  added,  to  give  the  broth  an  agreeable  flavour,  and 
the  patient  may  take  a  litde  of  it  warm  with  toafted 
bread,  three  or  four  times  a-day.  A  clyfter  of  it  may 
Ukewife  be  given  twice  a-day.  Such  as  cannot  ufe  the 
brodi  made  in  this  way,  may  have  the  head  and  feet 
fltinned;  but  we  have  reafon  to  believe  that  this  hurts 
the  medicine,  ft  is  not  our  bufinefs  here  to  realbn 
upon  the  nature"  and  qualities  of  medicine,  othcrwifc 
this  might  be  fiiewn  to  poflefs  virtues  every  way  fuited 
to  Ae  cure  of  a  dyfentery  which  does  not  proceed  from 
a  putrid  ftace  of  the  humours.  One  thing  we  know,  ' 
which  is  preferable  to  all  reafoning,  that  whole  fimilies 
have  ofien  been  cured  by  it,  after  they  had  ufed  many 
other  medicines  in  vaiji.  It  will  however  be  proper 
diat  the  patient  take  a  vomit^  and  a  dofe  or  two  of 
rhubarb  before  he  begins  to  ufc^e  broth.  It  will  like- 
wife  be  neceflkry  to  continue  the  ufe  of  it  for  a  confi- 
derable  time,  and  to  make  it  the  principal  food. 

Another  kind  of  food  very  proper  in  the  dyfentery, 
which  may  be  ufed  by  fuch  as  cannot  take  the  IwOth 
mentioned  above,  is  made  by  boiling  a  few  handfuls  of 
fine  flour  tied  in  a  cloth,  for  fix  or  feven  hours,  till  it 
becomes  as  hard  as  flarcli.  Two  or  three  table-fpoon" 
fuls  of  this  may  be  graced  down,  and  boiled  in  ^uch  a 
quantity  of  new  milk  and  water  as  to  be  of  the  thick- 
ncfs  of  pap.  This  may  be  fweetened  to  the  patient's' 
ta&e,  and  talcen  for  his  ordinary  food. 

In 


D  Y  S  fi  N  T  E  R  IT.  58J 

In  a  Putrid  Dyfenttty  the  patient  may  be  allowed  to 
:at  &eely  of  moll  kinds  of  good  ripe  fhiltsi  as  apple3> 
grapes,  goofeberries,  currants,'ftrawberrics,  &c.  Thefc 
my  either  be  eaten  raw  or  boiled,  with  or  without  milk, 
IS  die  patient  chufes.  The  prejudice  agiinft  fruit  in 
his  difeafe  is  fo  great,  that  many  believe  it  to  be  the 
:ommon  caufc  of  dyfentcrics.  This,  however,  is  an 
egregious  miftakei  both  reaibn  and  experience  lhew» 
hat  good  fruit  is  one  of  the  firft  medicines,  both  for  the 
ircvention  and  cure  of  the  dyfcntery.  Good  fruit  is  in 
Yery  refpcft  calcuUied  to  counteraft  that  tendency  ta 
)utrefaaion,  from  whence  the  moft  dangerous  kind  of 
lyfentery  proceeds.  The  patient  in  fuch  a  cafe,  there- 
ore,  may  be  allowed  to  eat  as  much  fruit  as  he  pleafes, 
>rovidcd  ic  b6  good. 

The  moft  proper  drink  in  this  diforder  is  whey.  The 
[yfemery  has  often  been  cured  by  the  ufe  of  clear  whey 
lone;  it  may  be  taken  both  for  drink,  and  in  form  of 
Jyfter.  When  whey  cannot  be  had,  barley-water 
iwpened  with  cream  of  tartar  n^^y  be  drunk,  or  ade- 
odion  oi  barley  and  tamarinds;  two  ounces  oS  the 
)rmer  and  one  of  the  latter  may  be  boiled  in  two  En^ 
Ih  quarts  of  water  to  one.  Warm  water,  water-gruel, 
r  water  wherein  hot  iron  has  been  frequendy  quenched, 
-e  all  very  proper,  and  may  be  drunk  in  turns.  Camo- 
lile  tea,  if  the  ftomach  will  bear  it,  is  an  exceeding  pro- 
cr  drink;  it  both  ftrengthens  the  ftomach,  and  by  its 
itifeptic  quality  tends  to  prevent  a  mortification  of  did 
owcls. 

At  the  beginning  of  this  difeafe  it  is  always  Qecellary 
»  cleanfe  die  firft  pafiages.  For  this  purpofe  a  vomit 
luft  be  given,  and  wrought  off  with  weak  camomile 

Vol,.  I.  D  d  d  tea. 


'^ 


58« 


DYSENTERY. 


tck.  Strong  vomits  arc  feldbm  neccflary  here*  A 
fcruplc,  or  at  nK)ft  half  a  dram  of  ipicaciianha,  ia 
generally  fufficient  for  an  adult,  and  fometimcs  a  vdy 
few  grsdns  will  foflice-  The  day  after  the  vomit,  half 
k  dram,  or  two^fcruplcs  of  rhubarb,  muft  be  taken; 
or  what  will  anfwer  the  purpofe  rather  better,  an  ounce, 
or  an  ounce  and  a  half  of  Epfbm  lalts.  This  dole  may 
be  repeated  every  other  day  for  two  or  three  times; 
rfterwards  fmall  dofes  of  ipicacuanha  may  be  taken  for 
ibme  time.  Two  or  three  grains  of  the  powder  may 
%e  mixed  in  a  table  fpoonful  of  the  lyrup  of  poppies^ 
'and  taken  three  times  a-day. 

Thefe  evacuations,  and  the  regimen  prefcribed  above, 
Vill  often  be  fufficient  to  effeft  a  cure;  fliould  it  how- 
ever happen  otherwife,  the  Mowing  aftringent  medi* 
cines  may  be  ufed. 

A  clyfter  of  ftarch  or  fat  mutton  broth,  with  thirty  or 
forty  drops  of  liquid  laudanum  in  it>  may  be  admi* 
"niftered  twice  a-day.    At  the  fame  time  an  ounce  of 
'gum-arabic,  and  half  an  ounce  erf  gum-tragacanth,  may 
be  diflblved  inapint  of  barley-water,  over  a  flow  fire,  and 
a  table  fpoonful  of  it  taken  every  hour* 
'    Pcrfons  who  have  been  cured  of  this  difeafe  are  very 
liable  to  fuffer  a  relapfej  to  prevent  which,  great  cir- 
^umlpeftiori  with  refpeft  to  diet  is  neceflary.    The  pa- 
tient muft  abftain  from  all  fermented  liquors,  except 
now  and  then  a  glafs  of  good  wine;  but  he  muft  drink 
no  kind  of  malt  Injuor.    He  fliould  likcwifc  abftain 
from  animal  food,  as  filh  and  flefli,  and  live  principally 
©n  milk  and  vegetables. 

Gentle  exercife  and  wholefbmc  rfr  are  likewife  of 
'  importance*    The  patient  fhould  go  to  the  cotmtry  t» 

z'  ■     '  fooa 


D  T  3  E  N  T  E  R  ¥.  .^ 

»!  as  bis  ftret^;th  will  permit,  and  fiiould  take  exerci 
\if  on  horleback,  or  in  a  carriage.  He  may  lik 
fc  ufe  bitters  ijifulcd  in  wine  or  brandy,  and  mi 
ink  twice  a-day  half  a  pint  of  lime  water  mixed  yi 
equal  quantity  of  new  milk. 
When  dyfenteries  prevail,  we  would  recomniend 
(k  Attention  to  cleanlincfs,  a  fpare  ufe  of  aoitiul  foot 
i  the  free  ufe  of  found  ripe  fruits>  and  other  vegcti 
s.  The  night  vr  is  to  be  c^efiilly  avoided,  and  a 
nmumcation  with  the  fick.  Bad  frndls  arc  likewife  i 
fhuoned,  cfpecially  thofe  which  arife  from  putrid  anj 
i  fubftances.  ,  The  necel£ries  where  the  fick  go  ai 
rflilly  to  be  avoided. 

When  the  firft  fymptoms  of  the  dyfentciy  appe*r»  th 
ioit  ought  immediatdy  to'take  a  vomit,  to  go  to  bee 
I  drink  plentifully  of  weak  warm  liquor  to  promote 
at;  this,  with  a  dofeor  two  of  rhubarb  at  the  b^n 
.would  often  cany  offthedifcafe.  In  countries  when 
enterics  prevail,  we  would  advife  fuch  as  are  liable  t 
m,  to  take  cither  a  vomit  or  a  purge  every  fpring  o 
limn,  as  a  preventive. 

rhere  are  fundiy  other  fluxes  of  the  belly,  u  thi 
LiENTBKY  and  CoELiAC  pASsiQu,  which,  though  ]e£ 
gprous  than  the  dyfentery,  yet  merit  confidcratiog 
ife  dileafes  generally  proceed  from  a  relaxed  Hate  o 
^mach  and  Inteftines,  which  is  fomctimes  fo  great 
;  the  food  pafles  through  them  without  Any  fenfibk 
9000}  and  the  pati«nt  dies  merely  from  the  wa^t  ci 
riHunent. 

?hcn  the  lieneery  or  cceliac  paffion  luccccd^j  to  i 

tuety,  the  ca^  is  bad.    They  are  always  dan^oui 

4^  age,  elpecially  when  the  conftitutioa  has  been 

D  d  d  a  broken 


t«8  E    A    R-A    C    H. 

jroken  by  excels  or  acute  difeafcs.  If  the  ftools  be  very 
requent,  and  quite  crude  -,  the  tUrft  great,  with  little 
irine,  the  mouth  ulcerated,  and  the  fece  marked  with 
'pots  of  different  colours,  the  danger  is  very  great. 

The  treatment  of  the  patient  is  in  general  the  fame  aa 
n  the  dyfentery.  In  all  obftinate  fluxes  of  the  belly, 
Jie  cure  muft  be  attempted,  by  firft  cleanfing  the  fto- 
mach  and  bowels  with  gentle  vomits  and  purges  j  after- 
irards  fuch  a  diet  as  has  a  tendency  to  heal  and 
[bengthen  the  bowek,  with  opiates  and  aftringent  me- 
dicines, will  generally  pcrfeft  the  cure. 

The  fame  obfcrvation  holds  with  rcfpcft  to  a  Te- 
KESMUS,  or  frequent  dcfire  of  going  to  ftool.  This  dif- 
pafe  refembles  the  dyfentery  fo  much  both  in  its  fymp.-. 
toms  and  method  of  cure,  that  we  think  it  needlels  ta 
inHil  iipon  it. 


E. 

E    A    R-A    C    H. 

"This  dilbrder  chiefly  affefts  the  tiiembranc  ^ich 
lines  the  inner  cavity  of  the  ear;  and  is  often  fo  violent 
as  to  occafion  great  reftkffncls,  anxiety,  and  even  deli- 
rium. Sometimes  epileptic  fits,  and  other  convuHive  dif-, 
orders,  have  been  brought  on  by  extreoie pjun  inthc 
car, 

The  ear-ach  may  proceed  from  any  of  the  caufes  which 
prodi;ice  inflammation.  It  often  proceeds,  from  a  fiwt- 
dcn  fupprcflion  of  perfpirarion,  or  from  the  head  being 
fuddenly  expofed  to  cold.  It  may  alfo  be  occafioned  by 

VonTH 


390  E    A    R  -  A    C    H. 

cd  to  the  car,  and  frequently  renewed  till  the  afa&eCa 
breaks,  or  can  be  opened.  Afterwards  the  humours  majr 
be  diverted  from  the  part  by  gentle  laxatives,  bllfters, 
or  ilTues ;  but  the  difchargc  muft  not  be  fuddenly  drictj 
up  by  any  external  application. 

Deafness  is  generally  the  efFcfb  of  old  agCj  fre- 
quently is  caufed  by  violent  colds  in  the  headj  and 
fometimcs  is  owing  to  an  original  fault  in  the  fomutioQ 
of  the  ear,  and  when  from  this  latter  caufe,  admits  of  no 
cure.  When  it  proceeds  from  cold,  care  muft  be  taken 
to  keep  the  head  warm,  efpecially  in  the  night  -,  the  feet 
Jhould  be  frequently  bathed  in  luke-warm  water  at  bed- 
time, and  a  few  gentle  pui^cs  may  be  taken.  - 

If  deafnefs  is  occaQoned  by  a  drynels  of  the  earSf  i^ch 
jnay  be  known  by  looking  into  them,  half  an  ounce  ©f 
the  oil  of  fweet  almonds,  and  the  fame  quantity  of  liquid 
opodcldock,  may  be  mixed  together,  and  a  few  drops 
put  into  the  ear  every  night  at  bed-time,  ftopping  them 
afterwards  with  a  little  wool  or  cotton.  But  from  what- 
ever caufe  Deafnefs  proceeds,  keeping  the  head  warm  is 
cf  the  moft  eflential  confequencc :  the  ears  are  a  very 
tender  orgMi,  they  require  a  very  delicate  toucfaj  and 
ought  not  to  be  tampered  with. 

"When  the  ears  arc  moift,  rub  them  with  die  powder 
of  burnt  alum  or  the  powder  of  vitriol.  To  prevent  the 
glutinous  huiTiours  falling  from  the  brain,  and  ib  com>- 
m\inicating  themfelves  to  the  ears,  drink  in  a  morning 
a  little  oil  of  olive  in  a  glafs  of  warm  water,  and  pEC&ndy 
-rub  the  palate  with  a  feather ;  this  will  caufe  you  to  brii^ 
up  by  vomit  that  glutinous  humour. 

Put  into  the  ear  hot  in  the  evening  two  drops  of  the 
4atof  a  rqafted  ed,  crra  dr^s  of ipirits  of  wine,  andtwo 

drop* 


EELS,  391 

IS  of  fine  oil,  and  it  will  do  them  much  good.  If 
3uz2ing,  whizzing  or  noife  of  the  ear  be  ncgle&ed* 
ill  in  time  grow  to  deafnefs. 

ingling  of  the  ^AR.  Take  oil  of  rue,  rfcaftoror  (pikei 

the  juice  of  leeksi  of  each  an  equal  quantity,  mixed 

together,  into  thefe  dip  a  fmall  lint  and  put  it  into 

zai,  ' 

T  take  radifhes,  oil  of  fweet  or  letter  almonds,  qoIo- 

itida,  and  whicewinc  in  equal  quantities,  and  having 

nded  the  radifhes,  but  not  the  leaves,  take  the  juice 

mix  it  with  the  other  ingredients,  drop  it  into  the 

and  (lop  them  with  cotton ;  the  juice  of  an  onion 

ars  is  alfo  a-ufcfiil  remedy. 

r  of  the  ear  proceeds  from  wind,  as  it 

put  a  little  aloes  into  a  little  wine,  warm 

two  into  the  ear,  and  Hop  it  with  cotton. 


EELS. 


'o  boil  Eels.  Having  Ikinned,  gutted,  and  taken 
blood  out  of  your  eels,  cut  off"  the  heads,  dry  them, 
turn  them  round  on  your  fifh-platc.  Boil  them  in 
and  water,  and  ferve  them  up  witli  parfley  fauce. 
inether  way.  Make  a  browning  of  butter  and  fiour, 
;n  it  u  of  a  good  colour,  add  a  little  broth  orcullis,  a 
c  of  white  wine,  one  dozen  and  a  half  of  fmall  oni- 
fitft  blanched,  a  few  mulhrooms,  a  faggot  of  parHey 
!  fweet  herbs,  three  cloves,  whole  pepper  and  fait ; 
r  this  until  the  onions  are  near  done,  then  put  the  eels 
t,  cut  in  pieces ;  ftew  wi  a  fmart  fire,  reduce  the  fauce 
\  proper  confiftence ;  when  ready,  add  a  chopped  an- 
chovy. 


39Z  EEL    S. 

chovy,  and  a  few  whole  capers.    Garnifh  the  dilli  with 
.fried  bread. 

To  pttcbcock  Eels.  Scour  a  large  eel  well  with  (alt  to 
dean  off  all  the  llime  ;  then  flit  it  down  the  back,  take 
out  the  bone,  and  cut  it  in  Icveral  pieces ;  take  the  yolk 
of  an  egg  and  put  over  the  infide,  fprinkle  cnimbs  of 
bread,  with  feme  fweer  herbs  and  parfley  chopped  very 
fine,  a  little  nutmeg  grated,  and  fome  pepper  and  fait 
mixed  all  together;  then  put  it  on  a  gridiron  over  a  clear 
fire,  broil  it  of  a  fine  light  brown  ;  difli  it  up,  and  gamilh 
with  raw  parfley  and  horfe-radifh  ;  or  put  a  boiled  eel  in 
the  middle,  and  the  pitchcocked  roupd.  Garnifh  with 
anchovy  fauce,  and  parfley  and  butter  in  a  boat. 

Jnolhtr  zvay.  Skin,  gut,  and  wafh  the  eels,  then  dry 
them  with  a  cloth ;  fprinkle  them  with  pepper,  fait,  and 
a  titde  dried  fage ;  turn  them  backward  and  forward> 
and  fkewer  them  ;  rub  your  gridiron  with  beef  fuet,  broil 
them  a  good  brown,  put  them  On  your  diili  with  good 
melted  butter,  and  lay  round  fried  parfley. 

To  Jew  EeLs.  Skin,  gut,  and  wafii  your"  eels  very  clean 
in  fix  or  eight  waters,  to  wafii  away  all  the  land  j  then  cut 
them  into  pieces  as  long  as  your  finger;  put  juft  water 
enough  for  fauce ;  put  in  a  fmall  onion  fl:uck  with  cloves* 
a  little  bundle  of  Iweet  herbs,  a  blade  or  two  of  mace, 
and  fome  whole  pepper,  in  a  thin  muflin  rag.  Cover  it 
clofe,  and  let  them  ftew  very  foftly.  Take  care  to  lo<rfc 
at  them  now  and  then  ;  put  in  a  little  piece  of  butter  rol-  ' 
led  in  fiour,  and  a  little  chopped  parfley.  When  you 
find  they  are  quite  tender,  and  well  done,  take  out  the 
onion,  fpice  and  fweet  herbs-  Put  in  fait  enough  to  fea- 
fon  it  J  then  difli  them  up  with  the  fauce.    . 

To  broil  Eels.    Having  fkinned  and  cicanfed  your 

eeli. 


EELS.  593 

It  rub  them  with  the  yolk  of  an  ^g,  ftrew  over  them 
:ad  crumbs,  chopped  parfley;  fage,  pepper,  and  falc ; 
te  them  well  with  butter,  and  fet  them  in  a  dripping 
1;  roaft  or  boil  them,  and  ferve  them  up  with  parfley 
1  butter. 

To  Broil  or  roaji  Eels.  Having  fltinned  and  cleaned  a 
gc  eel,  mix  bread  crumbs,  grated  lenion-pecl,  parfley 
jppcd,  pepper,  fait,  nutmeg,  a  few  oyftcrs  chopped, 
>it  of  butter,  and  a  yolk  of  an  egg :  fluff  the  eel,  few 
up,  turn  it  round,  rub  it  with  yolk  of  egg,  ftrew  over 
fine  bread  crumbs,  ftick  on  bits  of  butter,  put  a  little 
ter  in  the  difh :  bake  it  either  in  a  common  or  Dutch 
en;  ferve  it  with  white  fifti  fauce,  add  to  it  what 
ivy  comes  from  the  fifli,  firft  taking  off  the  fet:  the 
ftcrs  in  the  (luffing  may  be  omitted— Or,  ftrip  the  flcin 
*  the  eel  to  the  tail,  fcotch  it,  rub  it  with  pepper  and 
It ;  ftuff  it  with  the  above  ingredients,  draw  the  fkin 
er  it,  fkewer  it  round,  hang  it  in  the  Dutch  oven, 
ift  it;  or  put  it  on  a  gridiron,  at  a  great  diftance,  over 
clear  fire.  When  it  is  near  done,  fet  it  lower  .to 
jwn.  Anchovy,  or  white  filh  fauce. 
To  fry  Eels.  Cut  one  or  two  eels  in  pieces ;  cue 
t  the  back  bone,  and  fcore  it  on  both  fides ;  marinade 
in  hour  in  vinegar,  with  parfley,  fliced  onions,  flial- 
s,  and  four  cloves ;  then  drain  it,  bafte  it  with  eggs 
i  bread  crumbs,  fry  it  of  a  good  colour;  garnifh  with 
^  parfley,  and  ferve  with  a  reltfhing  fauce  in  a  fauce- 
it. 

Another  way.  Having  made  your  eels  very  clean,  cut 
;m  in  pieces,  feafon  them  with  pepper  and  fait,  flour  them, 
1  fry  them  in  butter.  Let  your  fauce  be  plain  melted 
Vot.  L  E  c  c  butter* 


394  EGGS. 

butter,  with  the  juice  of  a  lemon.  Let  them  be  well 
droned  from  the  fat  before  you  lay  them  in  the  difli. 

^0  collar  Eels.  Having  fcoured  the  flcin,  and  infide 
of  a  large  eel,  very  well  with  fait,  cut  off  the  head,  and 
fplit  it  down  the  back ;  then  feafon  it  well  with  fait, 
fpice,  and  a  good  deal  of  red  fage  Ihred  fine ;  fprinkle 
the  mixture  thick  upon  the  eel,  roll  it  up,  and  tie  it 
clofe  in  a  thin  cloth  at  each  end  and  in  the  middle ;  then 
boil  it  in  a  ftrong  pickle  made  of  vinegar,  fait,  fpice, 
and  a  bay  leaf  or  two,  and  when  it  is  enough  take  off 
the  cloth,  fef  it  by  to  be  cold,  and  let  the  pickle  be  cold 
iikewile  i  then  pour  it  into  a  glazed  pan,  and  put  the 
eel  into  it,  to  be  kept  for  tife :  this,  if  kept  clofe,  will 
keep  good  feveral  weeks. 

Jjt  Eel  Pye.  Skin,  gut,  wafli,  and  bone  the  eelsj 
cut  them  into  pieces,  blanch  them,  and  put  them  in 
water. 

Lay  fome  pafte  in  a  baking  pan,  put  a  carp  (luffing, 
and  lay  in  the  eels  with  fome  mufhrooms ;  feafoning 
with  lalt,  pepper,  fwect  herbs,  fine  fpice,  parfley,  and 
chibbol  cut  fmall ;  lay  butler  over  it,  and  cover  it  with 
an  abbefs ;  colour  it  with  eggs,  fet  it  in  the  oven  ;  when 
baked  open  it,  take  off  the  fat ;  dilh  it  and  put  in  fome 
beaten  eggs,  or  cray-filh  cullis,  and  fcrve  it  yp  hot. 


EGGS. 


The  white  of  an  egg  is  thought  to  be  one  of  the  moft 
proper  aliments  in  morbid  cafes,  where  the  organs  o( 
digeftion  are  weak  and  relaxed,  and  where  reftora- 
tives  are  neceHary  j  but  in  order  to  anfwcr  any  good 

pur- 


EGGS.  395 

irpofcs  in  this  view,  it  muft  be  given  frefh,  raw, 
d  without  the  application  of  the  leail  heat.    It  may 

given  in  milk  and  water,  or  may  be  taken  alone, 
it  feparated  from  the  yolk.    It  is  of  a  cooling,  af- 
ngent,  and  agglutinating  quality. 
Eggs  and  Broccoli.    Boil  your  broccoli  tender,  ob- 
ving  to  fave  a  large  bunch  for  the  middle,  and  Hx 

eight  little  thick  fprigs  to  ftick  round.    Toaft  a  bit 

bread  as  large  as  you  would  have  it  for  your  dilh  or 
tter  plate.  Butter  fome  eggs,  thus :  Take  fu  eggs, 
as  many  as  you  have  occafion  for ;  beat  them  well> 
It  them  into  a  faucepan  with  a  good  piece  of  butter, 
d  a  little  fait }  keep  beating  them  with  a  fpoon  till 
7  are  thick  enough,  then  pour  them  on  the  to3&. 
t  the  largeft  bunch  of  broccoli  in  the  middle,  and 
;  other  little  pieces  round  about,  and  garnifh  the 
(h  with  little  fprigs  of  broccoli.  This  is  a  pretty 
e  dilh,  or  a  corner  plate. 

To  broil  Eggs.  Cut  a  toaft  round  a  quartern  loaf, 
own  it,  lay  it  in  your  dilh,  butter  it,  and  very  care- 
ly  break  fix  or  eight  eggs  on  the  toaft.  Take  a  red- 
t  fiiovel,  and  hold  it  over  them.  When  they  are- 
ne,  fqueeze  a  Seville  orange  over  them,  grate  a  little 
tmcg  over,  and  ferve  it  up  for  a  fide  plate.  Or 
u  may  poach  your  eggs,  and  lay  them  on  a  toaft ; 

toaft  your  bread  crifp,  and  pour  a  little  boiling 
Iter  over  it :  fcafon  it  with  a  litde  fait,  and  then  lay 
ur  poached  eg^  upon  it. 

EoGS,  Ducbefs  fajhion.    Boil  a  point  of  cream  with 
gar,  a  little  orange-flower  water,  and  a  piece  of  le- 
an-peel i  poach  lix  or  eight  eggs  in  itj    take  out 
E  e  e  2  '  chc 


1 


396 


EGGS. 


the  eggSj  reduce  the  cream  for  fauce  to  (erve  uport 
them. 

Spinach  and  Egos*  Pick  and  wafh  your  Ipinach 
very  clean  in  feveral  waters,  put  it  into  a  faocepan 
with  a  little  fait;  cover  it  clofe,  and  Ihake  the  pan 
often.  When  it  is  juft  tender,  and  while  it  is  green, 
throw  it  into  a  fieve  to  drain  j  lay  it  into  your  dilh. 
Have  ready  a  ftewpan  of  water  boiling,  and  break  as 
many  eggs  into  cups  as  you  would  poach.  When  the 
water  boils  put  in  the  e^,  have  an  egg  flice  ready 
to  take  them  out  with,  lay  them  on  the  fpinach,  and 
garnifh  the  diih  with  orange  cut  into  quarters,  with 
melted  butter  in  a  cup. 

^0  force  Eggs.  Scald  two  cabbage  lettuces  with  a 
few  mulhrooms,  parlley,  forrel,  and  chervil ;  then  chop 
them  very  fmall,  with  the  yolks  of  hard  eggs,  feafbned 
with  fait  and  nutmeg ;  then  ftew  thenfi  in  butter,  and 
when  they  are  enough,  put  in  a  little  cream,  then  pour 
them  into  the  bottom  of  a  diih  j  and  chop  the  whites 
very  fine,  with  parfley,  nutmeg,  and  fait.  Lay  this 
round  the  brim  of  the  difh,  and  run  a  red-hot  fire- 
ihovel  over  it  to  brown  it. 

To  poach  Eggs  with  Toafis.  Put  your  water  into  a 
flat-bottomed  pan,  with  a  little  fait:  when  it  boils, 
break  your  eg^  carefully  in,  and  let  them  boil  two 
minutes  5  then  take  them  up  with  an  egg-fpoon,  and  lay 
them  on  buttered  toails. 

Eggs  with  Saufages.     Fry  fomc  faufages,  and  dien 

a  flice  of  bread ;  lay  the  faufages  on  the  bread,  with  a 

poached  egg  between  eiach  link.    If  the  toaft  is  too 

firong  £ried,  buaer  it  a  little. 

The 


ELDER.  397 

e  common  way  of  drefling  eggs  is  to  poach  them, 
brve  them  on  a  buttered  toaft,  or  on  ftewed  fpi- 
>r  forrel. 


ELDER. 

is  is  a  very  well-known  (hrub,  and  poflefled  of 
valuable  medicinal  qualities,  than  are  generally 
,ed  to.  An  infufion  of  the  inner  green  bark  of 
unk  in  wine,  or  the  cxprefled  juice,  in  dofcs  of 
quarters  of,  or  a  whole  ounce,  will  purge  modc- 
;  and  in  fmaller  doles  will  prove  an  efficacious 
K  gentle  opener.  The  young  buds  of  the  leaves 
3  ftrongly  purgative  to  be  ufed  with  fafety.  The 
s  have  an  agreeable  flavour,  and  a  dillilled  water 
hem  is  ranked  among  the  fafeft  beautifiers,  efpe- 
for  removing  tan  and  fun-bum,  or  freckles.  The 
I  are  ufed  in  the  preparation  of  a  wine  [fee  fFittes\ 
e  exprefled  juice  of  them,  dried  to  a  confillcnce, 
i  an  ufeful  medicine. 

'  of  Eldir  Berries.  Take  thejuiceof  ripe  elder 
s,  five  pounds;  pureft  fugar,  one  pound  j  evapo- 
ith  a  gentle  heat  to  the  confiftence  of  pretty  diick 
.  This  medicine  promotes  the  natural  fecretions 
ol,  urine,  or  perfpiration.  The  dofe  is  about  an 
;  a  Ipoonful  diluted  with  water  is  very  ufefully 
in  common  colds  at  bed-timej  and  if  continued 
length  of  time,  does  confiderablc  fervice  in  many 
ical  diforders. 

tea  may  be  made  with  the  elder  flowers,  cither 

)r  dried,  which  is  an  exc'ellent  remedy  for  the  St. 

Antho- 


598 


ELECTUARIES. 


Anthony's  fire,  and  leldom  fails  to  drown  the  SdiHt  t 
i%f<i  handfuls  of  the  flowers  when  green,  or  a  lefs  quan-- 
dty  dried,  is  fufficient  for  a  quart  of  boiling  water« 
Each  fingle  blofibm  need  not  be  picked  off,  but  the 
heads  from  the  main  ftalk.  The  dried  flowers  are  faid 
to  be  fuperior  to  the  green* 


ELECTUARIES. 

Eleftuarics  are  generally  compofcd  of  the  lighter 
powders  mixed  with  fyrup,  honey,  conferve,  or  a  muci- 
lage, into  fuch  a  confiftencc  that  the  powders  may  nei- 
ther feparate  by  keeping,  nor  the  mafs  prove  too  ftiff 
for  fwallowing. 

Aftringent  eleftuaries,  and  fuch  as  have  pulp  of  fruit 
in  them,  Ihould  be  prepared  only  in  fmall  quantities, 
as  aftringent  medicines  lofc  tiieir  virtues  by  being  kept 
in  this  form,  and  die  pulps  of  fruit  are  apt  to  fer- 
ment. 

For  the  extradion  of  pulps  it  will  be  necelTary  to 
boil  unripe  fruits,  and  ripe  ones  if  they  are  dried,  in  a 
fmall  quantity  of  water  till  they  become  fbft  j  the  pulp  is 
then  to  be  preffed  out  through  a  flrong  hair  fieve,  or 
thin  cloth,  and  afterwards  boiled  to  a  due  confiftencc 
in  an  earthen  vcITel,  over  a  gende  fire,  taking  care 
to  prevent  the  matter  from  burning,  by  continually 
flirring  it.  The  pulp  of  fruits  that  are  both  ripe  and 
frclh,  may  be  preffed  out  without  any  previous  boil- 
ing. 

Lenitive  Electuary.  Take  of  fenna,  in  fine  pow- 
der, eight  ounces  i    coriander  feed,   alfo  in   powder, 

four 


ELECTUARIES.  399 

ices;  pulps  of  tamarinds,  and  of  Frendi  prunes* 
pound:  mix  the  pulps  and  powders  together, 
1  a  fuiEcient  quantity  of  fimple  fynip  reduce 
le  into  an  clcftuary. 
.B-fpoonful  <?f  this  elcauary>  taken  two  or  diree 
a  day,   generally  proves  an  agreeable  laxative: 
wife  ferves  as  a  convenient  vehicle  for  exhibit- 
medicines,  as  jalaps,  fcammony,  and 
s  may  fupply  the  place  of  the  eicc- 

'or  the  Dyfentfty.  Take  of  the  Japo- 
which  is  beft  procured  from  the  che- 
ces ;  Locatelli's  balfam,  one  ounce ; 
sder,  half  an  owncej  fimple  fyrup, 
e  an  eleftuary. 

angerous  in  dyfenteries  to  give  opiates 

without   interpoling  purgatives :  the 

re  joined  with  thefe  ingredients,  which 

:ry  fafe  and  ufcful  medicine  for  the  pur- 

in  the  tide. 

out  the  bulk  of  a  nutm^  Ihould  be  taken  twice 

rice  9,  day,   as  the   fymptqms   and  conftitutions 

require. 

ECTUARY  for  the  Epilepjy,  Take  of  Peruvian 
in  powder,  an  ounce  %  of  powdfre^  tin,  and  wild 
an  rootj  each  half  an  ounce;  fimple  fymp,  enough 
ake  an  eleftuary. 

EcTyARY  of  the  Bark.  Take  of  Peruvian  bark, 
>wder,  three  ounces;  cafcarilla,  half  an  ounce; 
of  ginger,  enough  to  make  an  eleftuary.  In  the 
of  Qbftinate  intermitting  fevers,  the  bark  is  aOjft- 
y  the  cafcarilla.    In  he£tic  habits,  however,   it 

will 


400  EMULSIONS. 

will  be  better  to  leave  out  the  cafcarilla,  and  put 
three  drams  of  crude  fal  ammoniac  in  its  ftcad. 

Electuary  for  the  Piles.  Take  flowers  of  fulphur, 
one  ounce  j  cream  of  tartar,  half  an  ounce ;  treacle^ 
a  fufficient  cjuantity  to  form  an  cleftuary.  A  tea- 
fpoonfiil  of  this  may  be  taken  three  or  four  times  a 
day. 

"Elzctvarv  for  the  Pal^.  Take  of  powdered  muf- 
tard  feed,  and  confervc  of  rofcs,  each  an  ounce ;  fynip 
of  ginger,  enough  to  make  an  elcftuary.  A  tea-fpoon- 
ful  of  this  may  be  taken  three  or  four  times  a-day. 

Electuary  for  the  Rheumattfrn.  Take  of  conferve 
of  rofes,  two  oances ;  cinnabar  of  antimony  levi- 
gated, an  ounce  and  a  half;  gum  guaiacum,  in  powder^ 
an  ounce;  fyrup  of  ginger,  a  fuiEcienC  quantity  to 
make  an  ele(5hiary. 

In  obftinatc  rheumatifms,  which  are  not  accompa- 
nied with  a  fever,  a  tea-fpoonful  of  riiis  eleftuary  may 
be  taken  twice  a-day  with  confiderable  advantage. 


ELIXIR  S.— See  Tinctures, 


EMULSIONS. 

Emulfions,  bcfides  their  ufe  as  medicines,  are  aUb  pro- 
per vehicles  for  certain  fubftances,  which  could  not 
othcrwife  be  conveniently  taken  in  a  liquidform.  Thus 
camphor,  triturated  with  almonds,  readily  unites  with 
water  into  an  emulfton.    Pure  oils>  balfaras,  refin&j  and 

other 


72  ENDIVE. 

jnce ;  fliake  them  well  together,  and  add  of  fimpltf 
Tup,  half  an  ounce.  In  recent  colds  and  coughs,  this 
■nulfion  is  generally  of  fcrvice ;  but,  if  the  cougb 
roves  obitlnatc,  it  will  fucceed  better  when  made  with 
le  paregoric  elixir  inftead  of  the  volatile  aromatic 
)irit.  A  table  fpoonful  of  it  may  be  taken  evcr^wo 
r  three  hours. 


ENDIVE. 

This  is  a  plant  of  a  cooling  and  altrlngent  quality, 
nd  very  good  for  the  flomach  and  liver  j  if  boiled  in 
■inegar,  and  eaten,  it  is  good  to  flop  a  loofenels :  tho 
lecoftion  drank  is  of  great  ufe  in  a  hot  intemperature 
)f  the  liver,  and  in  fome  obftruftions  in  it,  being  taken 
n  white  wine ;  it  is  provocative  of  urine,  and  good  for 
ibftruflions  in  the  mcfentery. 

Endive  itvVA  Eggs.  Blanch  fome  endive,  put  it 
n .  cold  water,  and  prefs  it  well  to  fqueeze  the  juice  out 
of  it,  then  cut  it  with  a  knife,  and  put  it  in  a  ftewpan 
frith  a  bit  of  butter :  fet  it  on  the  fire,  and  let  it  ftew ; 
:urning  and  powdering  it  with  a  little  flour,  and  moiften 
(vith  maigre  broth  j  feafon  it  with  fait  and  pepper,  an4 
let  it  fimmer  gcndyj  afterwards  put  fome  frefti  butter 
in  a  little  ftewpan,  and  fet  it  on  a  ftovc ;  when  the  but- 
ter is  hot,  break  in  an  egg,  and  let  it  be  as  round  as 
can  be,  and  of  a  fine  colour,  but  do  not  let  the  yolk  be 
hard.  Fry  as  many  as  you  Iiave  occafion  for,  one  after  the 
other,  then  make  a  binding  with  dirce  or  four  yolks  of 
eggs,  beaten  in  maigre  broth,  a  little  nutmeg,  and  a. 
very  litde  vinegar, 

ERYNGO. 


{    373    3 
E  R  Y  N  G  O.— See  Candying. 


ERYSIPELAS. 

^iui  diieafe  affefts  every  part  of  the  body,  but  moft 
uently  the  face,  and  it  happens  at  all  times  of  the 
■j  but  whatever  part  is  aflFeited,  a  chillneis  and 
ering  generally  attend  the  diforder>  with  great  thirft, 
eflhefs,  and  other  figns  of  a  fever ;  the  face  fwells  of 
dden,  with  great  pain  and  rednefs,  and  abundance 
rnall  pimples  appear,' which  often  rifc  up  in  fmall 
£is,  and  fpread  over  the  forehead  and  head,  the  eye* 
ig  quite  clofed  by  the  lai^enefs  of  the  fwelling :  this, 
he  country,  is  ufually  called  a  blaft. 
^t  the  fick  perfon  Ipfe  eight  or  ten  ounces  of  blood, 
repeat  the  bleeding  more  than  once,  if  the  fymptonns 
high,  and  apply  to  the  part  a  poultice  of  white 
id  and  milk,  with  fome  hog's  lard  in  it  j  let  the 
iltice  be  chafiged  twice  in  a-day,  and  every  other 
■ning  take  the  following  purge,  till  the  diforder  is* 
xl,  viz.  Glauber's  fait,  one  ounce ;  manna,  half  an 
ce ;  mix  and  diFolve  it  in  water  for  one  dofe. 
rhe  diet  in  this  diforder  muft  be  very  low,  chiefly 
cr  gruel,  or  at  moft  weak  broth ;  all  ftrong  liquors 
[t  be  avoided  as  poifon. 

ir,  t^e  Narclflus  root,  one  ounce  j  frcfli  netde  feeds, 
"  an  ounce ;  beat  them  together  into  a  foft  pafte, 
1  a  fufficient  quantity  of  white  wine  vinegar,  and 
int  the  eruptions  therewith  every  night ;  or  bathe 
part  affcfted  with  the  juice  of  crefTes. 

Fff2  ESSEN- 


£     374    3 


ESSENCES. 

To  prepare  Essences  from  Flowers.  Take  a  bos 
lined  with  tin,  that  the  wood  may  not  impart  any  ill 
fmell  to  the  flowers,  nor  dry  up  any  of  the  effence  which 
may  drain  through ;  alio  have  frames  made  which  rhay 
enter  eafity  into  the  box  flat  ways ;  let  the  wood  be  two 
inches  chick,  and  befct  round  with  fmall  hooks:  to 
each  of  thefe  frames  muft  be  fixed  cotton  cloths,  which 
may  be  extended  thereon;  thefe  muft  be  put  into  a 
good  lye,  and  afterwards  wafhcd  out  in  fair  water,  and 
dried  very  well. 

The  oil  of  Ben  has  no  fmell  of  Itfelf,  but  will  readily 
receive  any  fmeli  that  you  would  impart  to  it :  having, 
therefore,  caufrd  your  cloths  to  imbibe  this  oil  as  much 
as  poflible,  fqueeze  them  a  little,  that  the  oil  may  not 
drain  off;  then  extend  them  on  die  frame,  and  faften 
them  to  the  hooks. 

Put  one  frame  in  the  bottom  of  the  box,  and  ftrew 
the  flowers  of  which  you  would  have  the  efl!encc  in  an 
even  manner  upon  the  cloth;  then  piit  in  another  frame, 
upon  the  cloth  whereof  you  muft  ftrew  more  flowers, 
and  fo  proceed  till  the  box  is  full. 

Having  difpofed  the  flowers  after  this  manner  in  the 
box,  let  them  lie  there  for  twelve  hours,  and  theft 
change  riicm,  that  is,  thofe  you  have  put  in,  in  the  morn- 
ing, take  out  in  the  evenings  and  thofe  you  put  in  ac 
evening,  take  out  the  next  morning;  thus  continue  to 
do  till  you  have  put  in  all  your  flowers. 

When  you  perceive  the  fcent  is  ftrong  enough,  take 
the  cloths  ofi'thc  frame,  and  fold  them  four  double ;  n^ 

them 


EXTRACTS.  37J 

up,  and  tye  them  with  feveral  rounds  of  fine 
diread,  to  keep  them  clofe  tt^ether;*  put  diem 
1  prefs,  and  prefs  otit  all  the  oil  you  can. 
ie  prels  ought  dib  to  be  lined  with  tin,  that  the  oU 
not  be  imbibed  hy  the  wood :  receive  the  oil  in  a 
velTcl,  and  afterwards  put  it  up  in  a  glafs  phia^ 
fe  for  ufc. 

t  be  but  the  cflcnce  of  one  fort  of  Sower 
box,  becaufe  the  fcent  of  the  onenill 
{  in  like  manner  mull  it  be  as  to  the 
hey  have  been  put  into  a  lye,  and  wafhoi 


EXTRACTS, 

Lxtrads  are  prepared  by  boiling  the  fubjeft  in  wa- 
and  evaporating  the  ftrained  deco^on  to  a  due 
fillence.  By  this  procel^,  fome  of  the  more  ac- 
parts  of  plants  are  freed  from  the  ufclefs>  indif- 
ible,  earthy  matter,  which  makes  the  larger  Ihare  of 
r  bulk.  Water,  however,  is  not  the  only  menftru- 
ufed  in  die  preparation  of  cxtrads,  fomcumcs  h  is 
led  with  fpirits,  and  at  other  times  rectified  jpirit 
le  is  employed  for  that  purpofe. 
Lxtrafts  are  prepared  from  a  variety  of  different 
gs,  as  the  bark,  gentian,  jalap,  &c.  but  as  they  re- 
re  a  troublefome  and  tedious  operadon,  it  will  be 
re  convenient  for  a  private  praftitioner  to  purchafc 
It  he  needs  of  them  from  a  profefled  dru^ft^.than 
prepare  them  himiclf. 

To 


$y6  EYE   S. 

Tc  thofc  we  have  mentioned,  may  be  ad 
fnBts  of  guiaacumj  poppies^  liquorice, 
«ood< 


EYES. 


-  An  Ophthalmia,  or  inflammation  in  the  e 
painful  but  well-known  complaint,  arifinj 
£rom  ct^>  and  frequently  Gxtm  a  very  acrid  I 
ftimulatcs  the  delicate  veffels  of  the  eye, 
inflaming  them. 

There  arc  two  forts  of  ophthalmia,  the 
the  other  moift ;  but  the  fame  method  of 
fucccfsful  in  each,  which  is>  to  fwecten  the 
the  blood,  as  well  by  internal  as  external  i 

Id  the  dry  c^hthalmiaj  wafh  the  inner 
leye  with  a  collyrium,  made  of  twelve  grain: 
tutty,  dilfolved  in  an  ounce  of  rofe,  and  the 
Tity  of  plantaine  water,  with  the  addition  < 
of  fpiritof  wine. 

Take  of  Paul's  betony,  thyme,  and  red 
■a  handful ;  two  flaUcs  of  mullein  j  boil  tli 
^on  of  white  wine  (or  leflen  the  ingredi' 
tionably)  and  at  night  apply  a  comprefs 
iSipped  in  this  wine. 

'  ■  In  the  watery  ophthalmia,  bleeding,  efpc 
■neck  and  foot,'  is  often  neceflary  ;  with  th 
•cf  an  eye  water  made  of  the  diftilled  watc 
■eye-bright,  and  plantaine,  each  an  ounce, 
fblve  two  grains  of  fugar  of  lead  :  if  tJiis  c 
^cd,  fubftitute  another,  more  aftringent. 


37«  EYE    S. 

CotLYRruM  of  AiUM.  Take  of  a 
dram;  agitate  it  well  together  with  the 

egg. 

This  may  be  ufcd  in  inflammation  of 
tUay  heat,  and  reftrain  the  flux  of  humoi 
be  fpread  upon  linen,  and  applied  to  th 
fliould  not  be  kept  on  above  three  or  fbu 
tinje. 

Vitriolic  Collyrium.  Take  of  whit( 
a-  dram  j  rofe  water,  fix  ounces ;  diflblve  ti 
the  water,  and  filter  the  liquor. 

This,  though  fimple,  is  perhaps,  equal 
0»ft  of  the  celebrated  coUyria ;  it  is  an  uf 
tion  in  weak,  watery,  and  inflamed  eyes : 
ilighter  inflanynations  will  generally  yield  ) 
thofe  of  the  more  obftinatc  nature,  the 
bleeding  and  bliftering  will  often  be  neci 

When  a  flxong  aftringent  is  judged  prop 
or  triple  quantity  of  the  vitriol  may  be  i 
folution  of  four  times  the  ftrength  of  the 
been  ufed  with  manifeft  advantage, 

Collyrium  of  Lead.  Take  fiigar  of 
crude  fal  ammoniac,  of  each  four  grains ;  d 
in  eight  ounces  of  common  water  :  forty  or 
of  laudanum  may  be  occafionally  added  to 
rium., 

Thofe  who  chufe,  may  fubftitute,  inftead 
collyrium  of  lead,  recommended  by  Goul 
is  m«3e  by  putting  twenty-five  drops  of  hi 
Saturn  to  eight  ounces  qf  water,  and  adding: 
fu!  of  brand)-. 


[     380    ] 


FEBRUARY. 


LIST    OF   THINGS  IN  SEASON, 


MEAT. 

FllH. 

VESETASLtl. 

Fiiriley. 

B«f, 

^ 

Beeti, 

Parfhriw, 

Houfc  lamb, 

Borwole, 

Fotatoei, 

Mutton, 

Crabj, 

Broccpli,purpl< 

;  Radifli, 

rorl. 
Veal. 

Cray-fifli, 
Eeli, 

and  while, 
Cabbage., 

SaS^. 

Flounderj, 

Cardooni, 

Savoyt, 

POtftTBT. 

Haddoclu, 

CatTOt», 

Scorzooera, 

Capoiu, 

Lobften, 

Celery. 
Chervil, 

Skirreti, 

CBckem 

Oyftert, 

Sorrel, 

Fowl.,    ' 

Plaice,  ■ 

Colewotti, 

Spinach, 

Harp, 

Prawm, 

Creffcs, 

Sprouts, 
Taragon. 

fjrtridge,, 

Salmon, 

Endive, 

Phcafanle, 

Scatc. 

Efchalot, 

Pigeoilh 
Fulleu, 

Smelt*, 

Garlic, 

FBUIT. 

Sole., 

Leeks, 

Apples, 

SnipM, 

Sturgeon, 

lettuce. 

Pear>, 

Tarn  Rabbia 

,  Tench, 

Mnftard, 

Chefnuti, 

Turkiti, 

Thoniback, 

Onions, 

Oranget. 

Womkocki. 

Turboi, 
Whiting*. 

DINNERS    OF    TWO    COURSES, 

Firjl  Ceur/e. 

$onp  la  Rein,  removed  with 

Turbot. 

Jf)w\  broiled  with  Bgeon  Cutleti  with 

Mulliroom  Sauce.  Ixbfter  Sauce. 

PJcUei.  Celery. 

Veal  Pie. 

Fricafee  of  Sheep         Anchovy  Sancc.         Mutton  CoUom, 

Troticri 

Roaft  Beef. 


F    E    V.E    R    S. 


3>t. 


Stctnd  Ceurftt 
Roailed  Rutridgct. 
K%ite-potFu<ldme<  Piawiu. 

Prderrad  Oranges,  in  quarten. 
H&Tved  Pineapple.  Frderved  (^ger.'  ' 

WWpt  Poflet. 
Collared  Pig.       .  Prefcrvcd  Rafpi.    Preferved  Currant  Tartt. 
Sweet  Bread  Roafted. 


DINNERS    OF    THREE    COURSES, 

Fir^  Cnr/e, 

Pcai  Soup. 


Chickeni. 
Hamcoof 
Mutton. 

PoritCiidtti. 

Chicken  Fatty. 

Oyfter  Pattiei. 
"$oupSantS. 
StctmJ  aurfi. 

Mutton  C<^pt. 
Rump  of  Beef.        . 
ik.Vdaub. 

Small  Hua^     ; 

Cardoons. 
»lloped  Oyftert; 
i^mport  Fcai. 

WUd  Fowl. 

Dffli  of  Jetly. 

Epcrgnc. 

Caramel. 

Hare. 

Stewed  Plppliw. 

RagoutMeli. 

Artichoke  Bottomi. 

CrawFHh. 

Two  Woodcocki. 
Afparagui. 

Prcfeivea  Chernei* 

;iEar». 

'    Crocant. 

Lamb  Chops 

mchtfd  -Almond), 
andRaifio). 

Muflvoomi, 
Larks-i-Ia-furprilc. 

larded. 

FEVERS. 


This  is  one  of  the  moQ  fatal  ctileafes  incident  to 

ankind>  and  the  cure  of  it  is  generallly  attended  with 

eater  difficulty,  becaufc  fymptoms  of  very  different 

G  g  g  a  kinds 


5l4  FEVER    S. 

kinds  frequently  appear.  The  various  caufcs  of  fever* 
may  be  confidcrcd  under  Jiifprtjfcd  evacuation,  bad  a'tr^ 
improptr  fbod,  intemperaHcef  excefs  tf  pa$ms,  fuiieti 
cbangts  fvim  beaf  to  cold,  or  the  contrary,  and  hlmis,  or 
other  injuries,  either  externa}  or  internal. 

It  will  be  obvious  to  ow  readerSj  chat  the  prevention  of 
difeafe  is  more  properly  the  obje6;  of  fuch  a  woric  as  the 
prefent,  than  the  ^r^/f//o«  ofmedtcine;  under  the  heads 
o(  Jiir,  Cold,  Cough,  Health,  &c.  will  be  found  every 
mode  of  prevention;  and  \rhen  they  are  unfucce&ful, 
common  prudence  will  diftace  a  ijecourfc  topri^)er  me- 
dical afllftance.  We  fiiai)  conAne  ourielves  tmder  this 
article,  chiefly  to  the  conlid^aitiin  of  that  fpecics  of  in- 
termittent fever,  called  the  Aoui.  

An  intermitting  Fever  quits  the  patient  for  a  certain 
time,  and  then  returns,  and  when  it  is  accompanied  widi 
cold  fits  of  great  violence  or  long  coiainuancc,  ii;  is  par- 
ticutaHy  catledan  Ague. 

Agues  obtain  different  names,  according  to  the  time 
of  the  fit's  returning.  When  the  fit  returns  every  day, 
it  is  called  a  quotidian;  when  it  wholly  intermits  one 
day,,  it  is  laid  to  be  z  tertian;  and  when  the  remifljon 
conunues  two  whole  days,  t):  is  a  quartan  ague ;  thqr 
geneniy  appear  about  the  month  of  February,  oi-  the 
Utter  end  of  Auguft, 

The  common  caufes  of  agues  are  a  moift,  foggy  at- 
mofphere,  exhaling  from  landing  or  ftagnate  waters, 
and  a  fwampy  foil,  or  a  cootinuancti  of  cold,  runy, 
diick,  and  heavy  weather;  they  may  alfo  be  occafioned 
by  improper  food,  particularly  fuch  as  is  of  a  cold, 
watery,  or  windy  natures  by  a  general  poverty  of  diet; 
by  lying  upon  the  dkmp  ground,  or  ia  damp  hoafes, 

rooms. 


FEVERS.  jfj 

ns,  beds,  or  Ibeets;  or  from  an  excclEve  fkdguc 
er  of  body  or  rnind. 

rhe  ufual  iya^itoim  are  heavinefs,  wearinela^  puns  in 
loins,  limbs,  and  head  j  yawning,  ibecctHt^,  chiU' 
i  in  the  extremities,  and  violent  Jhivcrings  and 
nblin^,  particularly  of  the  joints;  a  fmall  kw  puHe, 
A,  retclung,  and  fometimes  a  dtfcharge  of  bilious 
rtcr  by  vomit;  and  in  the  hot  fie,  an  intenfc  burmng 
fae  whole  body,  redne&  and  ftretching  of  the  fkin,  a 
ng  quick  pulfe,  watchftilneis,  ihort  breath,  deliriufn, 
L  high-coloured  urine  without  a  fcdiment;  as  thcfc 
^pioms  gradually  abate,  an  univerfid  fweat  focceeds, 
I  foon  temunates  the  fit. 

3n  the  day  of  remiffion,  when  none  of  the  violent 
ntmis  prcfent  themfetves,  the  patient  feels  himfelf 
i^K^edj  acbillncfs  and  difpofition to  fliiver,  accoim 
ly  a.fk}w  and  weak  pulfe;  his  urine  is  thick  and  pale^ 
i  eidier  depoHts  a  fcdiment  of  a  red  colour  refen^it^ 
:kduft,  or  contains  a  fufpended  cloud;  it  is  allb 
ai  frothy;  but  fometimes  there  is  a  very  thia  ikin  or 
1  upon  the  t(^  of  it,  which  feems  alfo  to  adhere  to 
fides  of  the  glafs:  and  this  oblervation  on  the  uriM 
jcculiarly  charadteriftic  of  the  fcvend  kinds  of  agues. 
During  the  continuance  of  the  ague  fit,  the  patienC 
y  drink  freely  of  diluting  liquors,  or  if  his  fpirits  fink, 
ite  wine  whey :  but  whatever  is  his  drink>  it  ffaoidd  b« 
dulated  either  with  juice  of  orange  or  lemon;  and 
:ry  thii^  he  takes  fhould  be  warm,  in  order  to  bring 
the  perfpiration. 

His  diet  during  intermifTions  fhould  be  of  a  light  and 

iirifhing  kind)  fuch  as  brodis  of  white  meats,  fago, 

ai  i»»ktin£?j  or  the  like;  animal  food  Dhould  be  ex- 

_  eluded: 


3U  F    E    V    E    ?    i 

duded}  his  ordinary  drink  may  be  « 
and  lemonadc>  widi  a  fmall  quandcy 
he  may  aUb  take  occafionally  a  glals  t 
which  orange  rind,  gentian  root,  or  bi 
kind>  have  been  infu&d ;  and  this,  po-ha 
tcr  adoiiniftration  of  bitters,  than  the 
momile,  wormwood,  or  other  bitter  h 
alio  recommended. 

The  natural  difinclination  to  motion, 
thefymptoms  of  thefe  fevers,  ftiould  by 
dulged:  if  the  patient's  ftrength  wiU 
fhould  ride  on  horfeback  during  the 
rate,  he  (hould  take  whatever  excrcife  h 
without  being  fubjeft  to  great  fatigue. 

If  the  exceflive  heat,  violent  thirft,  ai 
reaibnto  apprehend  inHammatton,  fc 
p^per ;  but  this  operation  is  not  lb  ge 
as  thcfe  fymptoms  do  not  often  occui 
ca&s. 

.  But  the  ftomach  and  bowels  deman 
mud  be  cleanfed  before  a  cure  can  b( 
this  purpofe,  purges  and  vomits  may  b 
though  in  many  cafes  vomits  alone  will 
ftomach  is  commonly  burdened  in  Uk 
cold  phlegm,  and  vomits  will  often  difc 
able  quantity  of  bile,  which  proves  the 
evacuation!  fromonefcruplc  to  haifat 
der  of  ipicacuanha  will  be  fuiRcient  foi 
and  the  quantity  mull  be  leffened  ii 
younger  perfons  and  children  i  and  ; 
operates,  it  may  be  promoted  by  t 
flowers,  with  the  addition  of  a  litde  of  th 


3«J 

rf  fliould  be  of 
)ne  ounce  of  the 
dofe  for  a  grovn 
)r  any  other  fim- 
1  and  phlegmatic, 
r  or  fix  drams  of 

,    ,    ,  ^ffuch  appeared) 

removed  or  abated  by  proper  evacuations, 

wiB  generally  be  after  three  or  four  returns 

»r  paroxifms,  the  Peruvian  bark  may  be  fafety 

d  in  any  way  that  will  be  moft  agreeable  to 

;  if  his  ftomach  will  bear  the  powder,  noprc- 

11  anfwer  the  purpofe  better. 

ice  of  this  bark  finely  powdered  will  make 

Ive  dofes,  and  nnay  be  taken  in  a  glals  of  Port  wine 

claret,  or  any  other  liquid,  or  reduced  to  a  bolus  t^ 

mixture  of  any  fyrup  or  jelly  of  fruit,  as  may  beft 

[  the  patient's  palate;  diefe  dofes  are  calculated  for 

iwn  perfons;  for  youth,  children,  and  perfons  of  vny 

der  and  delicate  habits,  the  quantities  muft  be  pro- 

tionably  lefs. 

[n  the  quotidian  or  daily  ague,,  one  of  thefe  doles 
uld  be  taken  every  two  hours  In  the  interval  of  the 
;  in  die  tertian  ague,  or  where  there  is  an  interaiiflion 
a  day,  once  in  three  hours  will  be  fufficient ;  and  io 
:  intervals  of  the  quartan  ague,  or  that  which  leaves 
:  patient  two  days  together  without  a  fit,  it  will  not 
neceilary  to  t^c  the  medicine  oftener  than  every 
ir  hours.  i 

For  fhofe  who  cannot  take  the  bark  in  fubltance,  the 
:oAioa  or  infiifion  of  it  m^  h^  prepared;  the. former 


tt6,  FEVER    S. 

If  boiling  two  ounces  of  th«  bark  and  hi 
h^e-root,  both  bruifcd,  in  twoquiwts  ol 
lalf  is  confumcd;  this  liquor  (hoiild 
towed  finely  off>  and  mixed  as  it  is  ufo 
|uantity  of  claret  or  port;  a  common  ' 
he  mixture  being  a  dofe  for  a  grown  p 
>catcd  its  we  have  directed,  the  barfc  in  : 
jrc^xjrtioned  to  age  and  ftrength  in  like 

Or  half  an  ounce  of  the  fine  powder  o 
X  infufed  in  a  pint  of  v^te-winei  the 
requently  fhaken,  and  after  it  has  fhn 
lays,  the  liquor  niuft  be  poured  off  pci 
akcn  in  the  quandty  of  a  wine  glafe  thrc 
iday.  or  more  or  lels  often,  according 
he  difordcr,  and  the  frequency  of  its  retii 
■  And  here  it  may  be  neccflary  to  ob£ 
■eaders  muft  not  underftand  us  to  mean. 
:il  quanttti^  c^tliefe  medicines  which  w 
90  be  prepared  at  once,  are  always  fuffii 
nnci  or,  that  if  the  fymptoms  abate,  tt' 
[he  medicine  may  be  omitted :  in  fonrw 
lifeafe  will  yield  even  to  the  quantities 
ikmed,  but  in  other  cafes  much  more  v 
Nor  is  it  fiifficient  diatthe  ufe  of  the  bat 
till  the  fits  are  flopped;  it  (hould  be  i 
ipprehenfions  of  a  return  of  the  diforde 
■nd  even  then  fhould  be  left  off  graduell; 

In  fome  conftitutiwu  the  bark  cannot  1 
uiyfbrm;  in  that  cafe  it  maybeinjeAe 
:he  following  compofition: 

Two  ounces  of  powdered  bark,  boiled 
ramnwa  water,  till  it  is  reduced  t«  half  i 


M  F    E    V    Z    R    S. 

iQured  ofTj  or  flrained,  'a  wine  gkfs  of  it  may  be  taken 
,vo  or  three  times  a  day. 

After  the  removal  of  an  intermitting  fever  by  the  ufe 
i  the  bark,  all  purgative  and  laxative  medicines  muft  be 
mitted  for  a  confidcrable  length  of  time. 

Where  children  are  afflifted  with  thefe  difeafcs,  the 
mpoffibiliiy  of  inducing  them  to  fwalloflr  fufficient 
[uantiiies  of  the  Peruvian  bark,  will  render  thff  cure 
nore  difficult;  but  even  if  clyfters  of  the  bark  Ihould 
irove  inefFcftual  with  children,  a  WMftcoat  with 
he  powder  of  the  bark  quilted  between  the'  folds 
nay  be  worn  next  the  fkin;  but  which  fhiuld  be 
rery  frequently  changed:  the  fpine  of  the  back  may 
ikewifc  be  often  rubbed  with  fpirits,  or  with  a  mixture 
if  equal  parts  of  laudanum,  and  opodeldoc. 

To  thofe  who  arc  obliged  to  fpend  their  lives  in  un- 
lealthy  fituations,  the  following  medicine  fcems  well 
:alculated  to  meet  the  approaching  diforder,  and  may 
in  many  cafes,  adiially  obviate  the  attack  : 

Take  of  Peruvian  bark  powdered,  half  an  ounce;    of 
V'irginianfnake-root,  two  dramsj  of  dried  orange  and 
lemon-peel,  ofeachadram;  cardamoms,  one  fcruplc. 
Bruifc  t!ie  latter  ingredients,  and  infufe  the  wholt 
quart  of  brandy,  Holland's  gin,  or  other  genuine  fj 
let  it  Hand  five  or  fix  days,  frequently  fliaking  the  i 
:Ucn  pour  it  off  fine,  and  drink  a  fmall  wine  g 
iwice  in  a  day.     The  infuiion  (hould  be  made  in  wine 
for  young  people,  and  for  fuch  as  are  wholly,  unufed  to 
rplritiious  liquors. 

To  fuch  as  do  not  objeft  to  bitters,  the  bark  ch 
2T  Gentian  root  taken  in  the  fame  way,  will  i 
preventatives;    and    the  ufe  of  camomile   tea, 


J94  F      r      S      H.        . 

then  to  fct  them  on  the  Bre  and  make  them  boil  as  quicic; 

as  poflibk,  without  covering  the  faucepan. 

Sauce  for  Boiled  Fish.  Boil  an  onion,  a  bunch  of 
fweet-herbs,  fome  horfe-radifli  fliced,  and  an  anchovy, 
in  beef  gravy,  and  a  little  white-wine ;  then  ftrain  the 
liquor,  and  add  to  it  a  fpoonful  of  mufhroom  ketchup, 
thickening  it  with  butter  mixed  with  flour;  and  if  \% 
be  for  fi/h  day,  you  may  ufe  mulhroom  gravy,  or  fiih 
gravy,  inftead  of  the  beef  gravy. 

Fish  Broth.  Cleanfe  tenches,  pikes,  eels^  and  carps 
from  their  (lime,  and  cut  off  their  gills,  then  put  all  into 
a  ketde  with  water,  fait,  a  bunch  of  fweet  herbs,  an  onion 
ftuck  with  cloves,  and  fome  butter;  boil  all  for  an  hour 
and  a  half,  ftrain  it  through  aHnen  cloth,  and  pour  fome 
of  it  feparately  into  three  pots,  into  one  of  which  put  in 
the  pickings  of  mufhrooms,  which  you  muft  afterwards 
take  out  by  llraining  them  through  a  fierc;  add  cullis, 
fried  flour,  and  a  piece  of  lemonj  this  thickening  liquor 
may  ferve  for  brown  pottages,  as  alfo  for  fide  diflica 
aod  inter-meffes. 

In  the  fecond  put  pounded  almonds  with  the  yolks 
t>i  hard  eggs  for  white  pottages,  particularly  thofc  of 
finclts,. perches,  foles,  and  other  filh  dreffed  in  white 
broth,  and  for  fome  ragoos  of  the  like  nature. 

In  the  diird  pot  the  fiOi  of  ail  the  pottages,  as  well 
white  as  brown,  both  for  the  fide  dilhes  and  intcr-meiles, 
may  be  boiled  together  to  make  fome  jelly. 

Another.  Hang  a  pot  over  the  fire  with  w^er,  whole 
onions,  parfnips,  parfley-roots,  forreland  all  fweet  herbs, 
and  good  butter,  feafon  all  well,  then  add  the  bones,  &c. 
of  fuch  filh,  the  flelh  of  which  has  been  taken  off 
to  make  farcesj  and  even  the  entrails  of  thofe  that  hav 

been 


F     L     E     A     S.  99t 

n  &rced  iftcr  they  have  been  welt  clcanfed^  and 
.  die  tails  of  cray-fifties  pounded,  with  four  or  fiy« 
onfiils  of  onion  juice. 

^hen  die  whole  mefs  is  finiflied  and  fuffictentfy 
led,  ftrain  it  throngh  a  iieve,  put  it  agun  into  die 
,  and  keep  it  hot,  while  you  prepare  the  fiJh  for  the 
tage  and  other  ufes. 

?"isH  Farce.      Take  carps,  pikes,  or  other  fiflj, 

.  mix  all  veil  upon  a  drelTer;  alfo  prepare  an  omelet 

t  is  not  fried  too  much,  with  muflirooms,  truffles 

fley,  and  chibbols,  and  let  all  be  put  upon  the  farce, 

been  well  ordered  and  feafbncd ;  you  maj 

>  thefe  the  crumb  of  a  loaf  foakcd  in  milk, 

and  yolks  of  eggs,  and  you  muft  take  care  to 

:  faucewcll;  this  farce  may  ferve  for  forcing 

rps,  to  make  andovillets,  croquets,  and  every 

may  be  thought  convenient,  .as  it  were  oa 

different    forts    of   filh. — Alfo  Gravt, 
[IPS,  Sec. 


FLATULENCE.—See  Wind. 


FLEAS. 
fa  defiroy  Fleas.     Sprinkle  the  room  wch  a  de- 
iUon  of  arfmart,  bitter  ap^e,  briar  leaves,  or  cab- 
;e  leaves;  or  fmoke  it  with  burnt  thyme  or  penny- 
al. 

Dr,  put  tanfy  leaves  about  <£Hercnt  parts  of  die  bed, 
,  under  the  maitrcfi,  or  between  the  blankets. 

ft  Or* 


J9«  F    L    P    W    E    R 

■  Or,  rub  the  bcd-f  ofts  well  with  a  ftroi 
ekicr  leaves. 

Or>  mercurial  ointment,  or  a  fumiga 
royftl.  leaves,  or.brimftonf,  infallibly  de 
ijkewife  do  the  frelh  leaves  qf  peanyrpya 
bag,  and  laid  upon  the  bed. 


F    L    O    U    N    D    E    f 

Flounders  and  Plaice  may  bedrelT 
manner,  and  in  all  die  different  ways  of  fr 
f— See  TuRBOT. 


FLOWERS 

To  diftil  an  inflamrnable  fpirit  from 
kinds,  the  method  direfted  below  for  the 
rhpft  be  obfervcd ;  as  alfo  to  procure  one  1 
of  vegetables }  only  obfcrve,  that  in  plai 
flowers,  as  thyme,  betony,  mint,  ftechaj 
jafmine,  the  feeds  muft  be  bruifed  with  tl 
roots;  as  they  alfb' mulljvidi  the  Bowen 
rofc,  lily,  angeUca,  iris;  in  odoriferous  fi 
ges,  lemons,  citrons,  Sec.  add  the  rind  c 
to  the  flowers;  and  to  the  flowers  of  elder 
of  the  valley,  acacia,  &c.  add  the  berries  v^ 
whether  green  or  dry  is  of  no  fignificatioi 
SriRiT  of  Roses.  To  make  die  inflai 
of  rofes,  take  twenty  pounds  of  damaflc  roi 
to  a  pafte  in  a  marble  mortar;  put  this  p 
layer,  with  fca  fait,  into  ft  large  ftone-  jar, 
if  one  is  not  large  enough  to  contain  the  wl 
ihatistofay,  fprinkle  every  .layer  of  paft 


394  FLOWERS. 

glafs  mitrals  of  a  realbnable  fize,  fill  it  about  tliree 
puts  full  wiih  your  unreftified  fpirit  of  rofes ;  fit  on  a 
bolt-head  and  receiver;  lute  the  joints  car  '  " 
diAit  in  a  v^^wur-bath  with  a  very  flow  fii 
you  have  drawn  off  qbout  a  tenth  part  of 
pvt  into  the  matrafs^  let  the  veflel  cool,  am 
the  Ipiric  that  is  found  in  the  receiver.    \SUi 
in  die  matrafs  muft  not  be  thrown  away  as 
k  is  a  rofe-water  fer  fupcrior  to  what  is  pr 
cording  to  the  ufual  method. 

After  a  firfl  rectification  of  a  part  of  the  (pi 
the  fame  operation  with  another  part,  till  th 
rcftified,  and  then  reftify  them  all  together  < 
After  this  laft  operation,  you  will  obtain  a  hi] 
trating  and  infiammable  fpirit  of  rofes.  T 
matic  part  that  remains  in  the  matrafe  may 
to  that  procured  from  the  preceding  reftifica 
the  whole  kept  for  ufe  in  a  cellar  or  other  coc 
a  bottle  well  corked.  . 

Toprefervt  Flowers.  Wafh  a  quantity  of 
until  it  contains  not  the  Icaft  earth  or  fait,  t 
for  ufe  J  when  thoroughly  dry,  fill  a  glafs  oi 
half  full  of  this  fand,  in  which  ftick  the  flow* 
natural  fituadon,  and  afterwards  cover  them  % 
riie  fame,  about  the  eiglith  part  of  an  inch 
flower.  Place  tlie  glals  in  the  fun,  or  if 
time,  in  a  room  where  a  ccwiitant  fire  is  ke[ 
flower  is  perfedly  dried.  Then  remove  the 
die  utmoft  precaiiuon,  and  clean  the  leaves  i 
dier  brulh.  Particular  flowers  lofe  in  fom 
then-  natural  lively  colours,  but  this  may  be 
die  afliftante  of  an. 


t    U    M    M    E    R    Y;  39J 

i  otbcr'flowers  of  a  delicate  (X)lipir,  n^-n^ 
luAre  b^  being  ocpoled  to  a  onodcnte  va<- 
iftonci  but  crimlbn  or  fcarkt  6ow«s,  by 
d  to  the  vapour  c^a  iblutioa  of  tin  in  ^irif 
te  vapour  of  a  fdutioa  of  filings  of  fteel 
ritiiol  reftorcs  to  thi  leaves  and  Sulks  their 
■ecn  colour.  This  method  focccficb  per- 
I  fingle  6owcrs.  There  are  Ibme  difficdties 
CO  pinks,  carnations,  and  other  double  fiowr 
xd  with  them,  iplit  the  ?up  on  each  fide, 
e  flower- is  quite  dry,  glw  it  Rigether  with 
or  prick  the  cup  in  different  paru  with  « 

:  Icent,  which  is  in  ^reat  meafure  loft  ia 
lay  be  reftored,  by  dropping  into  the  mid- 
ower  a  drop  of  iu  eflcntid  oil;  fbr  inftanci^ 
i  of  rofeson  arofe,  oil  of  cloves  on  ad(|vc-> 
oil  of  jafinine  on  a  jafinioe  flower. 


■    L    U    M    M    E    R    Y. 

for  Flummzrv  or  Jelliis.  Bruile  two  peQ»> 

:ochineel  with  a  knife,  and  put  it  intt>  half  a 
f  brandy ;  and  when  it  has  ftood  a  qiurter 
Biter  it  through  a  fine  cloth,  and  put  in  » 
Imakedieflumnwry,  or  jelly,  of  a  floe  piidt 
fellow,  tie  a  little  faffron  in  a  rag,  and  dif- 
»ld  water.  If  green,  bcnl  Ibme  ^>inach,  take 
,  and  mix  it  with  the  jelty.  If  white,  put  in 

'HTMMERY.  Put  diree  ia-ge  handfiili  of  fine 

ncal  to  fteep  for  twenty-four  hours  in  two 

lii  '  quaiti 


396  FLUMMERY. 

quarts  of  fair  wattr  f  then  pour  off  the  clear  witer  and 
put  two  quarts  of  freSh  water  to  it  j  ftnun  it  through  a 
fine  hair  fleve,  and  boil  it  till  it  is  as  thick  as  a  haftf 
pudding  i  ibrring  it  continually  while  it  is  boiling  that 
it  may  be  extraordinary  fmoothj  and  when  you  firft 
ftrain  it  out  before  you  fct  it  on  the  fire,  put  in  two 
Jpoonfiils  of  orange-fk)wer  water  and  a  Ipoonfiil  of  fugar, 
when  it  is  boiled  enough,  put  it  out  into  ihallow  di&es 
and  fcrve  it. 

One  way  ufed  in  the  weft  of  England  is  to  fteep  half  a 
peck  of  wheat  bran  for  three  or  four  days 
ind  then  to  ftrain  out  the  oily  and  milky 
to  boil  it  to  a  jelly,  and  afterwards  when 
fugar,  rofe  and  orange-flower  water,  li 
it  is  cold,  and  thickened  again,  and  eat  i 
Rhenifh  wine,  cream  or  milk. 

Hartjborn  Flummery.    Take  half  a 
ihavings  of  hartftiorn,  boil  them  in  ttiret 
till  it  comes  to  a  pint ;  ftrain  it  throug 
a  bafon,  and  fet  it  by  to  cool  -,  then  fct  it  o 
itjuft  melt,  and  put  to  ithalf  apint  of  th 
ded  and  grown  cool  again,  a  quarter  of  a  pint  of  white 
wine,  and  two  fpoonfiils  of  orange-flower  water  j  fwcet- 
en  it  with  fugar,  and  beat  it  for  an  hour  and  a  half,  <x 
it  will  neither  mix  well  nor  look  well  j  dip  your  cups  in 
water  before  you  put  in  the  flummery,  or  it  will  flot 
turn  out  well.     It  is  bcft  when  it  ftands  a  day  or  two 
before  you  turn  it  out.     When  you  ferve  it  up,  turn  it 
out  of  the  cups,  and  flick  blanched  almonds,  cut  in 
long  narrow  bits,  on  the  top.      You  may  eat  them 
cither  with  wine  or  cream. 


...F    L    U 
fTtlcb  Fluumbry. 

r  ftiff  hardhomjcllyi 
e  brandy,  and  fome  ] 
II  ic  ift  thick,  then  ftra 
kl  ttiree  ounces  of  i 
id  abouc  ten  bitxer  on 

TeUow  Fluumsry. 
inglalsj  put  it  inny  a  1 
ig  vatcTi  cover  it  tip 
int  of  white  wnc,  du 
m  lemons,  the  yolks  < 
reeten  it  to  your  talle 
id  caotinue.ftining  it. 
hen  almoft  cold,  put 

Solomon's  TtmpU  in 
Liart  of  fiiff  flummt 
lake  one  part  of  a  pi 
Khineel  bruifed  fine, 
rape  one  ounce  of  clu 
tde  Itrong  coffee,  and 
unimety  to  make  it 
irt  muft  be  white.  '. 
id  fix  it  in  a  pot  to  ft 
imple  with  red  flu[nnn< 
aints  widi  white;  ther 
lery.  Let  it  ftand  ti 
>una  with  a  pin,  and 
3  not  dip  your  mould 
Lc  glofs,  and  fpoil  the 
ick  a  fmall  fprig,  or  f 
r  every  point,  it  will  i 
ok  pretty.    Lay  roun 

proper  for  a  corner  d 


,g  |f  OMEN  T  AT  1  O  KS. 

Oa/iwji  Flummebv.  Put  fdmciwmodinto  abroad, 
«p  pan,  dien  cover  it  widi  water  j  ftir  h  togetfiw,  wbA 
t  it  ftand  twelve  hours  j  then  potjr  off  Aat  waar  diar, 
id  put  on  a  good  deal  of  frcft  waterj  ■ftrift  k  ^sb  ia 
/elve  hours,  and  fo  on  in  twdve  morcj  then  poor  oft 
ic  water  dear,  and  ftnun  the  oatmea!  ftrtw^  a  coarie 
ur  fieve,  and  put  it  into  a  faucepan,  keeping  k  ftir- 
ng  all  Ac  time  wrdi  a  ftick  rill  it  bwla,  snd  is  vtrf 
licfci  then  pourit  into  dfiflies.  Whencold,  torn  it  am 
[ates,  and  eat  it  with  what  you  fAetTe,  either  wiitc  anA 
igar,  or  beer  and  fogar,  or  tftflfc.  It  tats  vtry  weB 
ith  cyder  and  fugar. 

Frtttcb  Flvmmerv.  Take  a  quart  of  cream,  and 
alf  an  ounce  of  ifingla&,  Ixzt  k  'fine,  and  I&  it  into 
le  cream.  Let  it  boil  fofiJy  over  a  flo 
f  an  hour,  keep  it  Itirring  all  ilie  time; 
ffcetcn  it  to  your  palate,  and  put  in  a 
rater,  andafpoonfol  of  wtnge-flower 
nd  pour  it  into  a  glafi  or  haSon,  or  i 
nd,  when  it  is  coH,  turn  it  out.  It  n 
Too  may  eat  itwith  cream,  or  wine,  or 
jiy  round  it  baked  pears,  h  looks  i 
atsfine. ' 


FLUOR  ALBUS.— SrtWHrpsfc 


FOMENtATIONS. 

Foaaentations  are  generally  intended*  eidper  to  ode 
nin,  hjtAJnfitff  ttaGaaaaAfyt&tti  or  to  brace  and 

reftore 


FOM^NTATI'ONS.        ^99 

ore  Ac  tione  and  vigour  of  thole  parts  to  wliich  t^cf 
apf^ed.  The  iirft  of  thde  intentions  ^nay  gene- 
y  be  anfwercd  by  warm  water,  and  the.fecond  by 
i.  Certain  fubftaoces,  however,  are  v£i%\\j  added 
water,  with  a  vicv  to  heighten  its  «9e^  as  aao-. 
les,  aromatics,  aftringents,  &c.  We  (hall  thei^dbte 
)(Mn  a  few  o£  the  moft  uf^  naedicaced  ibmentatipns, 
tpeo{de.  may  have  it  in  their  power  19  make  «&  of 
m  irfienever  neceflary. 

AioifyHe  FoMENTATioM.  Take  of  white  poppy- 
ids,  two  ounces;  elder  flowers,  half  an  ounce;  water, 
ee  pints.    Btal  till  one  fane  is  cv^iQntCQd>  aad  ftrain 

TATioN.    Take  of  Jamaica  peppe^ 

I  wine,  a  pint.    Boil  them  for  a  litde, 

:  liquor.    This  is  intended^  not  only 

ttion  for  external  complaints,  but  al£) 

ntemal  parts.    Fains  of  the  bowels, 

dylenteries  and  diarrhoeas,  flatulent 

of  the  ftomach,  and  retching  to  vo- 

y  abated  by  fomenting  the  abdomen 

ftojnach  with  this  warm  iiquor. 

[TATioK.    Take  tops  of  wormwood 

d  camomile  flowers,  dried,  of  each  two  ounces;  wa- 

r,  two  quarts.    After  a  flight  boiling,  pour  off  ch( 

[uor.    Brandy  or  Qiirit  of  wine  may  be  added  to  this 

mentation,  in  fuch  quantity  as  the  particular  circum- 

inces  of  the  cafe  ih^  require;  but  thefe  are  not  al- 

lys  neceflary. 

Emollient  Fombntatioh.  This  is  the  feme  as  tlu 
)mmoR  decoction. 

StrtHph 


40O  FOWLS. 

Strengthening  Fomentatiok.  Take  of  oak  bark, 
one  ounce;  granatc  peel,  half  an  ounce;  alum,  two 
drams  i  fmith's  fbi^  water,  three  pints.  BoU  the 
water  with  the  bark  and  peel  to  the  confumption  of 
one  third;  then  flxatn  the  remaining  deco4 
diflbtve  it  in  alum. 

This  albingent  liquor  is  employed  as  a 
fiKnentauoa  to  weak  parts;  it  may  alfo  be  i 
nally. 


FORCE-MEAT     BALL 

Force-meat  balls  are  a  great  addition  to 
difhes,  and  are  made  thus: — Take  half  a 
veal>  and  half  a  pound  of  fuet  cut  fine,  an 
marble  mortar  or  wooden  bowl;  have  a 
herbs  and  parfley  Ihred  fine,  a  litde  mace 
beat  fine,  a  fmall  nutmeg  grated,  or  half  a 
a  little  lemon-pcel  cut  very  fine,  fcmc  pepp 
and  the  yolks  of  two  eggs.  Mix  all  thefewel 
then  roll  part  in  little  round  balls,  and  foi 
balls ;  roll  them  in  flour,  and  fry  them  browi 
are  for  any  thing  of  white  faucc,  put  a  litde 
faucepan,  and  when  it  boils,  put  them  in 
them  boil  for  a  few  minutes,  but  never  fry 
white  0Luce. 


FOWLS. 


Jtf  roafi  a  Fowl  with  Chefnuts.  Firfl  i 
chcfnuts,  very  carefully,  lb  as  not  to  bum  t 
them  i  cue  about  a  dozen  of  them  linall,  : 


FOWLS.  401 

n  in  a  mortar,-  parboil  the  liver  of  the  fowl,  bnule 
cut  about  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  ham  or  bacon*  and 
nd  itt  then  mix  them  alt  together*  with  a  good 
I  of  parfley  chopped  fmall,  alitde  fweet  herbs,  fome 
:e,  pepper,  fait,  and  nutmeg  1  when  well  mixed* 
f  it  into  your  fowl,  and  roaft  it.  The  beft  way  of 
ig  it  is  to  tie  the  neck,  and  hang  it  up  by  the  legs 
Qaft  with  a  ftring,  and  bafte  it  widi  butter.  For 
:e — take  the  reft  of  the  cheihuts,  peded  and  fidn- 
,  put  them  into  fome  good  gravy,  with  a  little  white 
:,  and  thicken  it  with  a  piece  of  butter  rolled  in 
r ;  then  lay  your  fowl  in  the  dilb,  and  poor  in  che 
X.     Gamilh  with  lemon. 

'0  force  a  Fowl  with  a  ragoo  of  Ofjlers.  Prepare  s 
e-meat,  to  which  add  a  dozen  oyfiers,  ftuff  die 
r;  cover  die  breaft  of  the  fowl  with  baron  fliced» 
1  a  ftieet  of  paper,  roaft  it  j  take  fome  cuSis,  or 
i  gravy,  put  in  the  oyfter^  with  their  liquor  firu- 
,  a  litde  mufiiroom  powder  or  catchup,  and  lemon- 
e,  thicken  it  with  Bourj  add  kyanand  fait,  if  wan*, 
boil  it  up.  When  the  fowl  is  done,  take  off  the 
3n.  Serve  the  fauce  in  the  difh. 
'his  iauce  Is  proper  for  any  roaftcd  fowls  or  chlc- 

(  Fowl  with  a  Jharp  fauce.  Trufs  a  fowl  for  roaft- 
I  make  a  force-meat  with  fcraped  lard  or  butter,  a 
:  tarragon,  chervil,  burnct,  gardcn-crefi,  pepper* 
and  the  yolks  of  two  or  three  eggs;  ftuff  the  fowl 
1  it,  make  a  fauce  with  a  litde  cuUis,  a  few  of  the 
ire  herbs  pounded,  two  anchovies,  and  a  fow  capers. 
en  done,  ftrain  ii^  then  add  a  litde  more  cuUis,  and 

a  lie- 


40S  t?    O    W    L    S. 

fl  Kttic  muftard,  pepper,  and  fah ;  wan 
ling,  and  fcnre  with  your  roafted  fowl. 

j1  Fowl  ^-la-braze.  Skewer  your  foi 
widi  the  t^  in  the  body,  then  Uy  over 
bact>n,  cut  in  pretty  thin  fliceSi  wrappi 
beet-leaves,  then  in  a  caul  of  veal,  a 
large  faucepan  with  three  jMnts  of  wi 
Madeira  wine,  a  bunch  of  fwcet  hert 
blades  of  mace,  and  half  a  lemonj  ftew 
der, '  take  it  up,  and  fkim  off  the  fat}  r 
pretty  thick  with  filour  and  butter,  and 
a  hair  fieVe,  and  put  to  it  a  pint  of  o; 
fuUof  thick  cream;  keep  fliaking your 
the  ftrtj  Ind  whm  it  has  (immcred  a  Httl 
fowl"  with  the  bacon»  beet-leaves,  an 
pour  your  fauce  hot  upon  it.  Gamilh 
or  red  beet-root. 

Mother  •aiiy,  Tnl&  your  fowl  mth 
into  the  belly,  fealbn  it  both  infide  uic 
ten  mace,  nutmeg,  pepper  and  lalt;  lay 
at  the  bottom  of  a  deep  (tewpan,  then 
and  afterwards  the  fowl  j  then  put  in  at 
three  cloves  ftuck  in  a  licde  bundle 
with  a  piece  of  carrot;  thin  put  at  th< 
bacon,  another  of  veal,  and  a  third  ol 
clofe,  and  let  it  Hand  over  the  fire  for  ti 
nutes,  then  pour  in  a  pint  of  broth  or  h 
it  clofe,  and  let  it  ftcw  an  hour;  aftcrwa 
fowl,  ftrain  the  fauce,  and  after  you  ha 
the  fat,  boil  it  down  till  it  is  of  a  gla 
over  the  fowl.  You  may  add  juft  whi 
the    fauce.     A  ragoo  of  fwceftreads 


FOWLS.  403 

iffles  and  morels ;  or  mufhrooms,  inth  force-meat  baUs, 
>k  very  pretty. 

A  Fowl  with  in  own  gravy.  Trufs  a  fowl  for  hoiluigi 
d  ic  through  and  through  with  bacon,  ham,  and  par- 
y;  put  it  in  a  pan  of  much  its  bigneis>  with  a  little 
itter,  two  or  three  dices  of  peeled  lemooj  a  &ggoc> 
ree  cloves,  fllced  onions,  and  carrots,  pepper  and  falt> 
=.tde  broth,  and  a  glafs  of  white  wine;  ftew  flowly  till 
IC}  fldm  andftr^thefauce,  and  ferve  with  the  fowl, 
<u  may  alfo  do  it  the  fame  without  larding. 
tl  Fowl  with  rice,  called  a  Pilau.  Boil  a  pint  of  rice 
IS  much  water  as  will  cover  it,  with  black  pepper,  a 
de  <H-  two  of  mace,  and  half  a  dozen  cloves,  tied  up 
a  bit  of  cloth}  when  the  rice  is  tender,  take  out  the 
cej  ftir  in  a  piece  of  butter ;  boil  a  fowl  and  a  piece 
bacon,  lay  them  in  the  diih,  cover  them  with  die 
a  lay  round  the  dilh,  and  upon  the  rice,  hard  eggs 
t  in  halves,  and  quarters,  lengthways;  and  onions, 
ft  boiled  and  th^  fried. 

A  Ragoo  of  Fowls.  Take  a  large  capon,  or  two 
llets,  and  blanch  nicely  in  a  little  butter  or  fcraped 
con,  but  cut  off  the  pinions  and  feet,  and  tuck  in 
:  legs.  Prepare  your  ragoo  in  the  following  raanneri 
rt  afweetbread  ofveal,  or  two  of  lambs,  the  fat  livers 
a  turkey  or  fowls,  fome  cocks  ftones,  three  or  four 
jflirooms,  a  thin  flice  or  two  of  lemon;  blanch  all 
U  with  hard  yolks  of  two  eggs,  cut  all  into  very  fmall 
:e,  and  flew  in  a  ladle  of  culUs;  and  you  may  add  to 
three  or  four  gizzards,  and  a  few  cocks  combs,  boikd 
ry  tender ;  fill  up  the  bellies  of  yow  fowls  or  caponsa 
d  few  up  at  both  ends,  but  make  a  relcrve  of  fome 
your  ragoo  to  pour  over;  put  them  upon  a  lark-lfdc 
Vol.  i,  K  k  k  acrofs,. 


^  FOWLS. 

v&y  and  tie  upon  aaocher;  lard  them 
^er  with  paper,  and  roaft  them  foftly,  t 
nice  and  i^te ;  firew  in  a  little  n\ine 
trie!  of  ihidloti  Iqueeze  in  the  juice  oj 
jige,  and  ferve  up  with  the  ragoo  under, 
draw  the  threads  out. 
Aiiihtr  way.  Take  a  good  lu'ge  fowl,  p 
flit  the  fkin  down  the  back,  and  take  t 
:  bones;  mince  it  very  fmall,  and  ntis 
und  of  beef  fuet  fhred,  a  pint  of  large 
I,  two  anchovies,  a  Ihallot,  a  litde  grao 
w  fweet  herbs;  flircd  all  this  vet) 
m  together,  and  make  it  up  with  t 
rs;  then  turn  all  thefe  ingredients  o 
tin,  and  draw  the  fkin  over  again; 
beck,  and  eiriier  boil  the  fowl  in  a  bla 
I  a  quarter,  or  roaft  it;  dien  Ifcew  feme 
Jic  gravy,  bruize  in  a  litde  of  your  iatct- 
with  a  liitle  frefti  butter,  and  a  very  littl 
e  it  a  bcMl  j  by  your  fowl  in  the  difli : 
ce  over  it,  gamifliing  with  lemon. 
A  Fowl  fervant  fajhion.  Trufs  a  fowl 
ke  a  force-meat  with  the  liver,  cho] 
illots,  butler,  pepper,  and  fait;  ftufFthe 
tp  it  in  buttered  paper,  and  roaft  it. 
ts  dmi^  take  off  the  paper,  bafte  it ' 
^  beat  up  with  melted  butccr,  and  a  j 
id-cnimbs;  finifti  roaftingj  it  muft  be  > 
f  colour.  Make  a  fauce  with  a  litde  bu 
ivy  chopped,  afewc^rs,  a  little  ftxir, 
'  and  fait,  and  a  litde  nutmeg ;  thicken 
1  ferve  under  the  fowl. 


F    Q   W    L    S.  4fi5 

Fowl.  Raife  the  fldn  fram  the  Iwall- 
fowl  wldi  your  finger,  then  take  a  veal 
ut  it  ftnall,  a  few  oyfterSi  a  few  muftf- 
ivy>  foine  pepper,  a  little  ttutmeg,  ibme 
a  little  thyine;  chop  all  together  fm^h 
die  yolk  of  an  egg,  ftufftt  in  between 
ildb>  but  uke  great  care  that  you  do 
kin;  and  then  fhiff  what  oyftcrs  you 
body  of  the  fowl.  You  may  lard  the 
rl  with  bacon,  if  you  chufe  it.  Paper 
^ft  it.  Make  good  gravy,  and  garniHi 
pu  may  add  a  few  mufhrooms  to  the 

Make  a  force-meat  with  half  a  pound 
much  crumb  of  bread  grated  fine^  the 
:ut  very  fmalli  beat  thefe  in  a  mortv, 
real  widj  them,  fome  truffles,  mords, 
cut  fmall,  a  few  fweet  herbs  and  par-r 
bme  grated  nutmeg,  pepper,  fait,  and 
^I  ]  Ikuic  the  fowls,  fill  them  with  du« 
roaft  them.  For  fauce — good  gravy, 
morels.  The  fowls  may  be  larded, 
.s.  Let  your  fowl  be  cut  up  as  fix- 
a  tofling-pan,  with  half  a  pint  of  gravy, 
of  lemon-pickle,  a  little  mufliroom 
of  lemon,  thicken  it  with  fiour  and 
ore  you  dilh  it  up,  put  in^a  fpoonful  of 
ay  fippcts  round  your  difli,  and  fcrve 

Cut  your  fowl  to  pieces,  and  put  it 

,  widi  a  little  cream  catchup,  or  mu'fh- 

;rated  Icmoa-peel,  and  nutmeg,  a  few 

K  k  k  3  oyfters 


4o6  FOWLS. 

-  oyfters  and  their  liquor,  a  piece  of  butter 
flourj  keep  it  ftirring  till  the  butter  is  mel 
pets  round  the  diih. 

To  fitao  a  Fowl.  Tnils  a  fowl  for  boi! 
in  a  ftewpan  wth  a  piece  of  butter,  chop 
Jhallots,^  and  mufhrooms;  foak  it  on  a  flo\i 
qnarter  of  an  hour,  turning  it  often ;  thi 
another  llewpan,  firil  gamilhed  with  Hiccs 
'  ham,  and  all  the  firft  fcafoning;  cover  ^n 
bacon  i  Ibak  it  for  a  quarter  c£  an  hour 
add  a  litde  whole  pepper  and  felt,  a  littl 
white  wine ;  finifli  it  on  a  flow  fire,  then  fki 
the  braze.  When  ready,  add  the  fqueeze 
and  fcrve  upon  the  fowl,  being  well  wiped  i 

A  nice  wtPf  to  drejs  a  coldFovL.  Peel  ofl 
of  the  fowl,  and  pull  the  flelh  off*  the  bone: 
pieces  as  you  can;  then  dredge  it  with  a  hn 
fry.  it  a  nice  brown  in  butter;  tofs  it  up  in 
well  feafoned,  and  thicken  it  with  a  piece  ol 
led  in  Sour.  Juft  before  you  fend  it  up,  fq 
juice  of  a  lemon. 

To  dreJs  cold  Fowl  or  Pigeon.  Cut  tl: 
quarters,  beat  up  an  ^g  or  two,  according 
drefs,  grate  a  little  nutmeg  in,  a  little  fait,  f 
chopped,  a  few  crumbs  of  breadj  beat  then 
ther,  dip  them  in  this  batter,  and  have  read) 
ping  hot  in  a  ftewpan,  in  which  fry  them  of 
brown.  Have  ready  a  little  good  gravy,  thi 
a  litde  flour,  and  mixed  with  a  fpoonftil  of  c 
die  fry  in  the  difli,  and  pour  the  fauce  ove, 
with  lemon,  and  a  few  mufhrooms  if  yot 
A  cold  rabbit  eats  well  done  thus. 


[     407     1 

F  R  A  Z  E. — See  Apples. 


RICASSEE.— -See  Chickens,  Fowls,  Lamb,  &c 


FRITTER  S.— See  Pamcakes. 


S. — See  Candying,  Drtinc,  FREsERriNC. 


END  OF  THE  FIRST  VOLUME. 


>fe£)  Soois,  printed  fir^i  JRi 

/^RITiaSMS  ON  THE  ROLLL 
^  the  Authentic  Edition,  Price  3«.  ( 

fetherwiththc  following  Articles,  will 
Ian  of  the  Authors,  and  m^ke  two  I 
lumes  O&nvo.    Namely, 

CRITICISMS  ON  THE  ROLU 
Price  3s.  6d. 

PROBATIONARY  ODES  for  the 
Price  3s.  6d.    And, 

POLITICAL  MISCELLANIES  i 
Verfe,  Price  3s.  6d. 

The  THiftoEDiTiOH,  Price  3 

THE  LIFE  of  the  LATE  JOHN  I 

Member  in  three  fuccellive  Farliamei 

fhtre,   (embelti/hed    with    his    Portrai 

Aiiftin),firftpubliftied  inthcPaper  of  t 

WORLD 

And  re-printed  with  Alterations  and 

By  EDWARD  TOPHAM, 

Late  Captain  in  the  2d  Troop  of  Horfc 

Magillrate  for  the  Counties  of  Eflex 

THE  LIFE  of  the  LATE  JOHN 
Efq.  with  a  REVIEW  of  his  TRAVE] 
ii  fubj'oined,  as  confirming  Mr.  How 
Solitary  Jmprifonment,  the  LETTE 
peared  in  the  Paper  of  the 

w     o     R     ],     r 

on  the  Cafe  of  Saville  for  Murder.  Th> 
EDWARD  TOPHAM,  Efq.  Price  3s. 


ADDRESS  of  the  NATIONAL 
to  the  People  of  France,  fhewing  what 
ready  done,  and  what  farther  they  i 
Price  2S. 

%*  While  Mr.  Burke,  Mr.Courtena 
are  advcrtifuig  their  Thoughts  on  the  1 
lution,  it  is  prefumed  it  caiinot  be  im 
hibitlheFafls. 


THE  WHOLE  DUTY  of  WO! 
Complctb  Syfteni  ot  FEMALE  W 
M'ritten  by  a  Lady.  To  which  arc  aJ 
Entertaixiing,  Moral,  and  Divine.   Pr 


T   H  jE 

$•    LIBRARY. 


G. 
&  L  L  I  N  G. 


biot  tb  which  children  are  rubje£i> 
iblefome }  it  chiefly  happens  about 
n  of  the  neck,  under  the  anm,  be- 
other  parts  that  are  jnoiftened  bf 
i'hlA  inconvenience  is  generally  ow- 
inefi  i  the  mc^  eSe&ual  means  o£ 
t  to  wafli  the  parts  frequently  with 
a  bit-  of  linen  n^  dipped  tfaore- 
'Kn  often,  and  keeping  the  iiiilA 
^hen  this  does  not  prove  fufficient» 
be  fprinkled  with  burnt  hartfliom, 
one  o£  the  beft  ap{JicatJoni>  is  to 
earth  in  a  fufficient  quantity  of  wa- 
l^iod  till  odd,  rub  ic  gently  upon 
or  twice  a  day. 

B  GAR. 


t  *  3 

GARGLE 

However  trifling  this  claTs  of  mi 
they  are  by  no  me^ms  without  theit 
indeed  cure  difeafes,  but  they  often 
grecablc  fymptoms,  as  a  parchedneH 
nek  of  the  tonguc'and'fauKs,  &c.- 
iifefiil  in  fcvtxi  and  fore  throat ;  , 
will  fomecimes  remove  the  diforder 
few  things  are  more  refrefhing  or  a] 
ent  than  to  have  hifr-mouch&equen 
foft  detergent  gargle. 

One  advantage  of  thefe  medicir 
eafdy  prepared.  A  little  batley  wat 
had  any  where ;  and  if  to  thefe  be  i 
gar  as  will  give  them  an  agrceaUe 
make  a  very  ufeful  gargle  for  fofteni 
mouth.  Gargles  have  the  beft  effc< 
a  fyringe. 

jUtenuating  Gargle.  Take  of 
honey,  one  ounce ;  nitre,  a  dran 
them.  This  cooling  gargle  may  I 
inflafnmatory  quinfey,  or  in  fevet 
tongue  and  fauces* 

Common  Gauole.  Take  of  roll 
fyrup  of  clove  July  flowers  half 
vitriol,  a  fufHcicnt  quantity  to  give  i 
nefs:  mix  them.  This  gargle,  b 
tongue  and  fauces,  a£h  as  a  gentl< 
fometimes  remove  a  flight  quinfey. 

Detergent  Garole.  Take  of  d 
a  pint  i  tinfture  of  myrrh>  an  ounce  j 


G  1  N  G  E  R.  3 

[  tfaem.  When  exulcerations  reqiiire  to  be  cleanled, 
he  raccretion  of  tough  vifcid  faliva  promoted,  this 
jic  will  be  of  ftrvice. 

JjMoliunt  Gargle.  Take  an  ounce  of  marfhmallow 
3,  and  two  or  three  figs ;  boil  them  in  a  quart  pC 
cr  till  near  one  half  of  it  be  confumedi  then  ftrain 
the  liquor.  If  aoounceof honey,.andhaIf anounce 
^irit  offal  ammoniac,  be  added  tt>  the  above,  it  mli 
bean  exceeding  good  ii///»Ka/i»^^<irffc.  This  gar- 
is  beneficial  in  fevers,  where  the  tongu^  and  fauces 
rough  and  parched,  to  foften  thefc  parts,  and  Eopro- 
e  the  difcharge  of  faliva. 


GARLIC. 

)t  is  much  recommended  in  difqrders  of  the 
lungs,  as  promoting  cxpeftoration,  as  alio  in 
}  but  is  fo  very  unpleafant,  as  to  be  little  ufed 
foreigners,  as  an  ingredient  in  many  of  their 


G  I  B  L  E  T  S.— See  Goose. 


GINGER. 
rhis  is  a  very  ufeful  fpice  in  cold  wndy  dilbrderti 
I  in  laxity  of  the  bowels  j  it  does  not  heat  lb  much  as 
fe  of  the  pepper  kind,  and  its  effefts  are  nwre  certain, 
1  durable.  Candied  gingpr,  which  i*  a  piealant  and 
ful  preferve,  is  chiefly  brougjit  &om  abr(»di  a  fyrup 
prepared  as  fbllowi. 

B  a  Take 


I;  G    O    &    S    B. 

,  Tdu  of  boten  ganger,  thiee  onnea}  boifingivatar 
i0tc  pou ;  {take  them  well  togcdier  durii^  die  ceatA^ 
sf  twai^-four  hours,  then  ftrun  ud  i 
fcven  pounds  of  refined  fi^jar,  and  nuk 

GOOSE. 

Goose  i-la-mo^.  Pick  a  lai^  fine ; 
■id  bone  it  nicdj.  and  take  off  the  £ 
teiq;uo*  and  pect  it.  Do  a  fowl  in  the 
the  goofe ;  realon  it  with  pepper,  fait,  a 
suid  roll  it  round  the  tongue.  Sealbn 
[amc  manner>  and  put  both  tongue  ai 
goole.  Put  it  into  a  little  pot  that  will 
two  quarts  of  beef  gravy,  a  bundle  of] 
an  onion.  Put  fome  flices  of  ham,  or : 
nvecfi  the  fowl  and  goofe,  then  cover  ii 
ftew  over  the  fire  for  an  hour  very  flov 
up  your  goofe,  and  fklm  off"  all  the  h 
put  in  a  ^als  of  red  wine,  two  fpoonfii 
veal  fweecbrcad  cut  fmall,  fome  truffles, 
morels,  a  piece  of  butter  rolled  in  flour 
fome  pepper  and  fait,  put  the  gpofe  i 
clofe,  and  let  it  ftew  half  an  hour  loi^ 
up,  pour  the  ragoo  over  it,  and  gam 
You  muft  remember  to  fave  the  bones 
fewl,  and  put  them  into  the  gravy  whet 
It  mil  be  an  improvement  if  you  wj 
marrow  between  the  tongue  and  the  (6 
the  ftfffl  and  goof^  as  it  will  make  then 
the  liner.    Before  we  conclude  this  u 


a  o  o  s  E,  s 

'•Bii&  to  obferve,  duu  the  bcft  qiediod  to  bone  ft 
ofe  or  &ml  of  any  Ibrt  is  to  begia  at  the  breaft,  ami 
Lc  out  all  the  bona  vitboyt  cutting  the  b*ckj  fbr 
len  it  is  finred  up,  and  you  come  to  ftew  it»  it  ge* 
rally  burfts  in  the  back,  whcrebjr  the  fh^  of  it  i» 
>iled. 

To  marinadt  a  GoosB.  Bone  the  goofe,,  ftuff  it  mth 
-ce-meat,  and  fiy  it  of  a  good  brown,  then  put  it 
D  a  deep  ilewpan,  widi  two  quarts  of  good  gravy, 
d  cover  it  clofe,  and  ficw  it  two  hours ;  dicn  take 
out,  and  ikim  off*  the  &t  j  add  a  large  Ipoooful  «f 
ncHi-[rickie,  one  of  browning,  and  one  of  redwinet 
e  anchovy  flircd  fine,  beaten  mace,  peppo-  and  fait 
your  pidate ;  thicken  it  with  flour  and  butter,  boil 
ft  link;  difli  up  your  £00&^  and  flrain  your  gravy^ 
eric. 

Make  your  ftuffing  thus :  Take  ten  or  twelve  ftge 
ives,  two  large  onions,  two  or  three  lai^c  apples,  Ihred 
ly  fine,  mix  them  widi  the  crumb  of  a  penny  loafv 
ir  ounces  of  betf  marrow,  one  glafi  of  red  wine,  hatf 
nitmeg  grated,  pepper,  fait,  and  a  litde  iemon-pect 
red  fmall  -,  make  a  light  ftufling  with  the  yolks  of  &ur 
gs.  Obfcrvo  to  make  it  one  hour  before  you  want  it. 
GoosB  different  wirjn.  Cut  a  goo&  into  quarters  (if 
e  whole  is  tM  much  for  a  difli,  ufe  only  die  1^  and 
ngs),  braze  them  with-llicea  of  laid  and  broth,  agla& 
w^ite  wine,  a  few  llices  of  onions  and  carrots,  and  aU 
ch  feafoning  as  is  ufed  in  other  brazes.  Being  done 
ry  tender  in  this  manner,  you  may  ferve  with  any  fort' 
'  garden-ftuffragoos,  filch  as  turnips,  green  peas,  Imall 
lioni,  and  cucumbers.  If  legs  and  wings  t^geefe  are 
ttTed  as  a  hotchpot,  they  muft  be  boiled  with  all  kinds 

of 


6  GOOSE. 

of  roots,  and  a  few  pieces  of  pickled  j 
wiAout  taking  off  the  rind. 
V  To  ragvo  a  GoosK.  Flat  the  brcaft  dow 
•war,  then  prefs  it  down  with  your  hand, 
into  fcalding  water  i  let  it  be  cold,  lard  i 
ieafbn  it  with  pepper,  fait,  and  a  little  beat* 
flour  it  alt  over,  take  a  pound  of  good  1 
finall,  put  it  into  a  deep  Aewpan,  let  it  be 
put  in  your  gocrfe ;  and  brown  it  on  both 
it  is  brown,  put  in  a  quart  of  boiling  grav 
twoi,  a  bundle  c£  fwcet  herbs, .  a  bay  leaf 
pepper,  and  few  cloves.  Cover  it  clofc,  ; 
foftly  till  it  is  tender.  About  an  hour  wil 
if  a  large  one,  an  hour  and  an  half.  In  t 
make  a  r^oo:— Boil  fome  turnips  alinoft 
carrots  and  onions  quite  enough ;  cut  yo 
carrots  the  fame  as  for  a  harrico  of  mutt 
into  a  faucepan  with  half  a  pint  of  good  1 
Ettlc  pepper  and  fait,  a  piece  of  butter  i 
and  let  this  ffew  all  tc^ther  a  quarter  of  ai 
the  goofe  and  drain  it  well }  then  lay  it  in 
pour  the  ragoo  over  it. 

Where  the  onion  is  diflikcd,  leave  It  ou 
add  cabbage  boiled  and  chopped  fmall. 

To /moke  a  Goose.  Take  a  large  ftubb 
off  all  the  fat,  dry  it  well  infide  and  out 
wafli  it  all  over  with  vinegar,  and  then  mi. 
fomc  common  fait,  faltpctre,  and  a  quartt 
of  coarfc  fugar ;  rub  the  fait  well  in,  let  it  1 
then  drain  it  well,  few  it  up  in  a  cloth,, dry 
die  of  a  chimney.  It  fhould  hang  a  im 
onionSj  greens,  &c. 


GOOSE.  i 

Tojitw  Giblets.  Scald  and  clean  them  well,  cut  <^ 
e  bill,  divide  the  head,  ikin  the  feet,  ft^w  them  wiA 
Iter  (enough  for  fauce)  a  fprig  of  thyme,  fome  whole 
ack  pepper,  an  onion ;  let  them  do  till  very  tendw, 
run  the  fauce ;  add  a  little  catchup  and  flour,  if  the 
uce  Ib  not  thick  enough.  Lay  fippets  toafted  round 
edifli. 

jinolber  way.  Cut  your  pinions  in  two,  the  neck  m 
ur  pieces,  flice  the  giazard,  clean  It  well,  ftew  them  in 
fo  quarts  of  water,  or  mutton  broth,  with  a  handful  of 
feet  herbs,  one  anchovy,  a  few  pepper  corns,  three  <w 
ur  cloves,  a  fpoonfiil  of  catchup,  and  an  onion.  When 
e  giblets  vrc  tender,  put  in  a  fpoonfiil  of  good  cream, 
icken  it  with  flour  and  butter,  ferve  them  up  in  a  foup 
ih,  and  lay  fippcts  round  it. 

Another  way.  Let  them  be  nicdy  fcalded  and  picked^ 
It  the  pinions  in  two  ;  cut  the  head  and  the  nedc  and 
gs  in  two,  and  the  gizzards  in  four ;  walh  them  very 
can,  put  them  into  a  ftewpan  or  ibup  pot,  with  du-ce 
>unds  of  fcrag  of  veal,  juft.  cover  them  vndi  water  j  let 
em  boil  up,  take  all  the  fcum  clean  off  i  then  put  three 
lions,  two  turnips,  one  carrot,  a  litde  thyme  and  par- 
vf  J  ftew  them  till  they  ate  tender,  ftrain  them  through 
fieve,  waih  the  ^blets  clean  with  fome  warm  watar  out 
■  the  herbs,  &c.  then  take  a  piece  of  butter  as  big  as  a 
rge  walnut,  put  it  in  a  ftewpan,  melt  it^  and  put  in  a 
rge  fpoonfiil  of  flour  {  keep  it  ftirring  nil  it  is  fmooth ; 
en  put  in  your  broth  and  giblets,  ftew  them  for  a  quar- 
r  of  an  hour ;  feafon  with  fait.  Or  you  may  add  a 
U  of  Lifbon,  and  juil  before  you  ferve  them  up,  chop 
handful  of  green  parfley  and  put  in }  pvc  them  a  boil 
3,  and  ferve  them  in  a  turem  or  foup  difh. 

Three 


«  G   0    O    S    B. 

Three  paif  wtlt  m^e  hancUbme  ture 

To  roafi  a  oreik  Goosi.  When  yot 
AeBhd,  put  in  a  good  'ump  of  butter,  ff 
and  finge  it  well^  dull  it  with  flour,  bafte 
butter ;  bafting  it  three  or  four  times  ^ 
will  make  the  flclh  rife  better  than  if  ] 
icoutofthedripping-panj  if  itisahtrgt 
;hree  quarters  (^  an  hour  to  roaft  it  {  wl 
is  enou^  dredge  it  with  Bour,  balte 
fitjth,  and  your  goofe  a  nice  brown,  am 
t  little  brown  gravy  under  it.  Gamifl 
pf  bread  grated  round  the  edge  of  your 

Jiiothtr  wfff  to  roafi  a  green  Goose. 
iwll  not  take  ntwre  than  three  quarters  < 
fire.  Unlefs  it  is  particularly  liked,  i 
put  any  diii^  into  \t  but  a  little  pc 
Bttle  gravy  in  the  dilh,  and  feme  in 
muft  be  green  fauce  in  another  boa 
lowi :  About  half  a  pint  of  veal  broth, 
(Mange  or  lemon  boiled  up  for  fix  oi 
then  put  in  fome  juice  of  forrcl,  cnou^ 
and  juft  boil  ic  up;  ftir  it  all  the-time  : 
(unUe,  which  it  is  :^  to  do,  and  it  o 
finooch. 

Amther  Sauce.  Take  fome  meked  ; 
fpoonful  ^  the  juke  of  forrel,  a  lia 
coddled  goofebcrries,  pour  it  into  your 
fend  it  hot  to  the  table.* 

To  roaft  a  GooiE,  Take  a  few  fage 
ontoDS,  chopped  as  fine  as  poflible  i  n 
Urge  [aece  of  butter,  two  fpooniuls  of 
pepper.     Put  this  into  the  gooic,  Ipit  iCj 


5  "  E,  'o  ] 

GOUT. 

As  there  are  flo  medicines  yet  known  that  Vill 
the  gout,  we  ihall  confine  our  obfervatiom  chiefly 
gimen,  both  in  and  out  of  the  fit. 

In  the  fit,  if  die  patient  be  young  and  ftrong,  hi 
ought  to  be  thin  and  cooling,  and  his  drink  of  a  dj] 
nature ;  but  when  the  conftitution  is  weak,  and  d: 
tient  has  been  accuftomed  to  live  high,  this  is  not  a 
per.  dme  to  retrench.  In  this  cafe,  he  mull  keepi  i 
to  his  ufual  diet,  and  fhould  take  frequently  a  c 
ftrong  negu!,  or  a  glafs  of  generous  wine.  Wine 
is  a  rery  proper  drink  in  this  cafe,  as  it  promote 
pcffpiration  without  gready  heating  the  patient.  ] 
anfwer  this  purpofe  better,  if  a  tea-(poonful  o(fai 
tile  oleo/Hirt,  or  fpirits  of  hartlhom,  be  put  into  a  c 
It  twice  a  day.  It  will  likewife  be  proper  to  give  ai 
time,  a  tea-fpoonfiil  of  the  volatile  tinfture  of  gam 
in  a  large  draught  of  warm  wine  whey.  This  will  j 
ly  promote  pcripiration  through  the  night. 

Many  things  will  Ihorten  a  ^t  of  the  gout,  and 
'Will  drive  it  off  altogether ;  but  nothing  has  yet 
found  which  mil  do  this  with  fafety  to  the  patient 


GRAPES. 

'  They  may  btf  preferyed  in  the  fame  manner  as 
rants  in  bunches,  or  as  Morelle  cherries. — Sec 
RANTS  and  Cherries. 


t  "  3  m; 

GRAVEL. 

PerTcmsaffliSed  with  the  gravel  or  ftone,  Ihould  avoid 
ments  of  a  windy  or  heating  nature,  as  lalc  meats,  four 
]its,  &c.  Their  diet  ought  chiefly  to  confift  of  fuch 
tng^  as  tend  to  promote  the  fecretion  of  urine,  and 
keep  the  body  open.  Artichc^cs>  afparagus,  fpinach> 
tuce,  parfley,  fuccory,  purflane,  turnips,  potatoes, 
trots,  and  radiflics,  may  be  fafely  eat.  Onions,  leeks, 
d  cdery  are,  in  this  cafe,  reckoned  medicinal.  The 
oft  proper  drinks  are  whey,  butter  milk,  and  water  i 
rley  water  i  deco^ons  of  the  roots  of  maifh-nnallows, 
rfley,  liquorice,  or  of  other  mild  mucilaginous  vege. 
Ues,  as  liufeed,  limetree  buds,  or  leaves,  &c.  If  the 
tient  has  been  accuflx>med  to  generotis  liquors,  he  may 
ink  Hollands  and  water  acid. 
Dr.  Whyte  advifes  patients  who  are  fubjeA  to  fre- 
lent  fits  of  the  gravel  in  the  kidnies,  but  have  no  ftone 
the  bladder,  to  drink,  every  morning,  two  or  three 
urs  before  break&ft,  an  Englifh  pint  of  ojrfter,  or 
ckle-flidl  lime  water.  The  doftor  very  juftly  ob- 
ves,  that  though  this  quantity  might  be  too  fmall  to 
ve  any  fenfible  cffeSt  in  diiTolving  a  ftone  in  the  blad-* 
r,  ytt  it  may  very  probably  prevent  its  growth. 


GRAVIES. 

As  gravy  Is  not  always  to  be  proaired,  efpccially  by 
jfe  who  live  remote  from  large  towns,  in  fuch  cafes 
:  following  direftions  may  be  ufefiil :  Take  a  piece 
bee^  veal,  and  mutton,  and  cut  them  in  fmall  pieces; 
K  a  Ltfge  deep  ^ucepan  with  a  covcrj  lay  your  beef 
C-a  at 


r3  G  R  A  V  1  £  S. 

at  the  bottom,  then  your  mutton,  then  a  vety  Utde  p 
of  bacon,  a  fllce  or  two  of  carroc,  fome  mace,  do 
whole  black  and  white  pq>pa',  a  targe  onion  cut  in 
ces,  a  bundk  <^  fiveet  herbs,  and  then  ky  in  your  i 
Cover  it  ctofe  over  a  flow  fire  for  fix  or  fevsn  num 
fliake  the  faucepan  often  *.  then  duft  fome  flbur  infi 
and  pour  boiling  waur  till  the  meat  is  fomething  n 
iJian  covered.  Cover  it  clofe  again,  and  let  it  &c* 
it  is  rich  and  good ;  then  feafon  it  to  your  tafte  ■< 
lalt,  and  ftrain  it  off;  when  you  will  Iwve  a  gravy 
will  anlVcr  moft  purpofes, 

Attothtr  wtpf.  TAe  a  rafher  or  two  of  bacon  or  Y 
and  lay  it  at  the  bottom  of  your  ftcwpan.  Put  d 
veal,  mutton,  or  beef,  cut  in  thin  fliccs,  over  it.  1 
cut  fonw  onions,  turnips,  carrots,  and  celery,  a  1 
thyme,  and  fmne  all-fpice.  Pot  a  little  water  at  the 
torn,  then  fet  it  on  a  gentle  fire,  and  draw  it  till 
brown  at  the  bottom,  which  you  will  know  by  the  { 
hifling  i  then  poiir  boiling  water  over  it,  and  fte 
gently  for  an  hour  and  a  half}  but  the  time  it  will 
mud  be  regulated  by  the  quantity.  Scafon  it  with 
SroWK  Gravy  without  Meat.  Melt  a  piece  of  b 
OS  big  as  a  walnut  in  a  faucepan  -,  ftir  it  round,  and  i 
the  froth  (inks,  duft  fome  flour  in  it.  Then  take 
a  pint  of  fmall  beer  that  is  not  bitter,  and  half  a 
of  water,  a  fpoonful  of  walnut  liquor,  or  catchupi 
fame  quantity  of  mulhroom  liquor,  one  anchov 
litde  blade  of  mace,  fome  whole  pepper,  and  a  t 
carrot.  Let  it  Iimmer  for  a  quarter  of  an  hour, 
then  ftrain  it  off.    Ufe  it  for  fiOi  or  fowl. 

Good  krown  Gravy.  To  half  a  pintflf  beei;< 
that  is  not  bitter,  put  half  a  pint  of  water,  anottioi 
fmsDl,  a  little  bit  of  kmon-ped  cue  iinall,  three  cl< 


GRAVIES.  ij 

ilade  of  mace,  kinx  wftde  pepper,  a  fpoonfiil  of 
fliroom  pickk,  a  {pootAA  of  walnut  pidde,  a  fpoon- 
of  catchup,  and  an  -anchovy.  Firft  put  a  piece  rf 
ter  inoo  a  fauc^ian,  as  tng  as  an  hen's  egg ;  when  it 
netted,  fluke  in  a  Httle  Bour,  atld  let  it  be  a  fittk 
torn ;  then  by  degrees  ftir  in  the  above  ingredients, 
[  let  it  boil  a  quarter  of  an  hour,  then  ftrun  it,  and 
I  *&  for  fifii  or  roots. 

3ravy  for  white  Sauce.  Take  a  pound  of  any  part 
the  veal,  cut  it  into  fmall  pieces,  boil  it  in  a  quart  of 
cer,  with  an  onion,  a  blade  of  mace,  two  cloves,  and 
tw  ■(rfiole  pepper-corns.  Boil  it  till  it  is  as  rich  as  you 
tltd  have  it. 

Gravy /or  a  Turkey,  Fowl,  or  Ra^.  Take  a  pound 
lean  beef,  cut,  hack,  and  flour  it  well.  Put  a  piectf 
butter,  as  big  as  an  hen's  egg,  in  a  flewpan,  and 
.en  it  is  melted,  put  in  your  beef,  fiy  it  on  all  fides  % 
]£  brown ;  then  pour  in  three  pijits  of  boiling  wawr, 
d  a  bundle  of  fweet  herbs,  two  or  three  blades  of  mace, 
ree  or  four  cloves,  twelve  whole  pq)pcr-corns,  a  little 
[  of  carrot,  a  little  piece  of  cruft  of  bread  toafted  brown; 
fver  it  clofe,  and  let  it  boil  till  there  is  about  a  pint  or 
s,  then  feafon  it  with  fait,  and  ftrain  it  off*. 
Amthtr  way.  Boil  the  neck,  liver,  and  gizzard  of  the 
wl  in  half  a  pint  of  water,  with  a  Uute  piece  of  bread 
afted  brown,  a  little  pepper  and  lalt,  and  a  litde  bit 
'  thyme.  Let  them  boil  till  there  is  a  quarter  of  a  pint, 
len  pour  in  half  a  glafs  of  red  wine,  boil  it,  and  ftrain 
,  then  bruife  the  liver  well  in,  and  ftrain  it  agun,  thick- 
1  it  with  a  little  piece  of  butter  rolled  in  flour,  and  it 
ill  bs  very  good. 

An  tn's  kidney  makes  good  gravy,  cut  all  to  pieces. 
Eld  boiled  with  fpices,  &c.  ^ 

I  Betf 


U  GRAVIES; 

JteffGnAvv.  Take  fome  lean  bce^  ac 
quantity  rf  gravy  that  is  wanted,  cut  it  int 
kintoaftewpan,  with  an  onion  fliced,  and 
cover  it  clore,  fet  it  over  a  gentle  firej  pot 
vy  as  it  draws  from  it,  dien  let  the  meat  b 
that  it  may  not  bum.  Pour  over  it  boilir 
a  few  cloves,  pepper-coras^  a  bit  of  lemon' 
of  fweet  herbs.  Let  this  furuner  gently; 
At  gravy  that  was  drawn  from  the  meat. 
fill  of  catchup  and  fbme  laic. 

A  pound  of  meat  will  make  a  pint  of  gi 

Mttton  or  Fed  Gravy.  Take  your  m 
cut  and  hack  it  very  well,  fet  it  on  the  fir 
Iweet  herbs,  mace,  and  pepper.  Let  it  b 
good  as  you  would  have  it,  then  llrain  i 
great  cooks  always,  if  they  can,  chop  a  par 
and  put  into  the  gravies. 

■AJlTon^  Fijh  Gravy.  Take  two  or  thre 
other  fiih  you  may  have,  (kin  or  fcale  the 
and  wa(h  them  from  grit,  ctit  them  into 
put  them  into  a  ftcwpan,  cover  them  with 
cruft  of  bread  toaftcd  brown,  a  blade  or  t 
and  fome  whole  pepper,  a  few  fweet  herf): 
little  bit  of  lemon-peel.  Let  it  boil  till 
good  i  then  have  ready  a  piece  of  butter, 
your  gravy — if  a  pint,  as  big  as  a  walnut, 
the  faucepan,  then  (hake  in  a  litde  floufj 
about  till  it  is  brown,  and  then  ftrain  in  thi 
Let  it  boil  a  few  minutes,  and  it  will  be  g( 

Stock  for  brown  or  white  FiJh.  Take  a  pc 
four  or  five  flounders,  and  two  pounds  of  ec 
into  pieces :  put  to  them  as  much  water  j 


G  R  1  L  L  A  D  E.  «^ 

em  i  feafon  them  vith  mace,  an  ooion  ftuck  vr^ 
ovcs,  a  head  of  celery,  two  parfiey  roots  fUced»  Sasac 
epper  and  falti  a  bui^ch  of  fweet  herbs.  Let  itfinuner 
1  hour  and  a  half,  covered  down  dole;  ftraio  it  offfiir 
fe.  If  it  is  for  brQwi^  foup,  fi?  the  fifh  fiift  brown  i* 
atto-i  and  then  do  ic  ^  before  mendoiMd,  It  vqI^  W^ 
eep  ipore  than  vw>  or  three  days. 


GREEN-GAGE  PLUMS.     See  Cahdyih^ 

and    pRESERTIlfO. 


GRILLADE 

Is  meat  broiled  upon  a  gridironi  vheh  turkeys  or  any 
dicr  forts  of  fowls  are  left  ^d,  you  may  make  a  fide 
ilh  of  them  in  the  following  manner;  broil  their  ieg% 
dngs,  and  rumps  on  a  gridiron,  with  lalt  and  peppers 
nd  having  fried  fome  flour  in  lard  ^th  oyflers,  ancbo- 
ics,  capers,  nutmeg,  a  bay  leaf  and  a  piece  of  green 
emon,  with  a  titde  vin^ar  and  broth^  let  tl^cm  be  aQ 
i^ell  foaked  together. — S?e  alfo  Muttok, 


GREEN  SICKNESS.— Sec  WoMEK, 


Q  R I P  E  S.— See  ChIldrbk. 


H.  HAD. 


H. 
HADDOCKS. 

* 

9S^  ir$il  Haddocks*  Gut  and  wafli  them,  dry  them 
mitk  a  cloth^  and  rub  a  little  vinegar  over  them,  which 
will  keep  the  (kin  on  better.;  diift  them  with  flour,  rab 
the  gridiron  with  bvitter,  and  let  it  be  very  hot  when 
you  lay  the  fifh  on,  or  they  mlLftick :  turn  them  two 
or  three  times  on  the  gridiron^  When  eBOugK>  fervc 
them  up,  and  lay  pickles  round  them,  with  plain  melted 
butter,  or  cockle  fauce.  They  are  a  pretty  dUh  fox 
fuppen 

I  _  • 

•     H      A      I      », 

A  fine  head  of  hair  is  generally  confidercd  as  a  neceP* 
fyry  appendage,  or  indeed  as  an  eflcntial  part  of  beauty, 
^dpecially  in  the  ladies;  and  though  this  depends  very 
imich  upon  the  natural  temperament  of  the  body,  yet 
it  may  be  certainly  improved  by  the  afliftance  of  art. 
Daily  combing,*  frequent  drefling,  and  the  nfe  of  plain^ 
unadulterated  ftarch  powder,  with  fimple  pomatum,  will 
contribute  more  to  its  nourifhment  and  prefervation, 
than  all  the  boafted  preparations  of  perfumery.  Appli- 
cation of  hot  irons  is  always  prejudicial;  and  much  friz- 
zing will  filially  tear  it  all  from  th^  head. 

PomaturVis  and  powders  for  the  hair  may  generaUy  be 
purchafed  cheaper,  at  leaft  more  conveniently,  than  they 
^an  be  made;  but  as  many  readers  might  think  a  work 
of  this  kind  deficient,  that  did  not  give  recipes  for  fucH 
compofitions,  we  ofier  the  following  as  fooje  of  the  beft 
that  can  be  prepared : 


HAIR.  ff 

Pomatum  for  the  Hair.  Cut'a  fullicieAt  quftntlt;r  of 
g*s  cheek  into  fmall  pieces,  ftecp  >t  fix  or  eight  d«ys 
clean  water,  which  muft  be  changed  three  times  a-dayi 
d  every  time  the  water  is  changed,  let  the  flelh  be  ftir- 
1  with  the  fhank  of  a  lilver  tiible  fpoon ;  drain  the  flefli 
r,  and  putting  it  into  a  clean  earthen  pipkin,  with' a 
tt  of  rofe  water,  and  a  lemon  ftuck  with  cloves  j  fim- 
T  them  over  the  fire  till  the  (kim  looks  reddiih,  which 
:e  ofFj  remove  the  pipkin  from  the  fire,  and  ftrain  the 
uor.  When  it  has  cooled,  take  off  the  fat,  beat  it  fe- 
■al  times  well  with  cold  water,  till  thoroughly  purified, 
ng  rofe  water  the  laft  time  inftead  of  common ;  drain 
:  pomatum  from  the  water,  and  (cent  it  with  any  pcr- 
ne  to  your  choice,  as  eflenceof  bergamot,  lemon,  &c. 
lis  is  an  elegant  and  excellent  compofition  for  almoft 
;ry  cofmetic  purpofe ;  but  particularly  for  the  hair, 
ich  it  nourifhes,  ftrengchens,  preferves,  and  thickens, 
i  in  that  refpeft  feems  a  natural  pabulum  or  food, 
rhe  beft  ftarch  dried  is  the  bafis  of  all  hair  powders, 
1  in  this  fimple  ftatc  is  doubriefs  nourilhing  to  the  hair; 
:  is  too  generally  adulterated  with  perhicioos  ingre- 
dients, fuch  as  unflacked  lime,  dried  bones,  or  bone? 
cined  to  whitenefs,  fliells  of  fifli  calcined,  and  worm- 
en,  or  rotten  wood,  which  are  fifted  through  a  fine 
r  fieve,  after  they  have  been  beaten  to  powder.  The 
lowing  is  the  method  of  preparing  the  common  while 
'!ier: 

rake  four  pounds  of  ftarch,  half  a  pound  of  Florcn- 
:  orrice  root,  lix  cuttle  Blh  bones,  ox  and  (hecp  bones, 
'  led  Eo  whitenefs,  of  each  a  handful  -,  beat  them  'nto 
er,  and  lift  it  for  ufe. 

e  Florentine  orrice  root  is  the  ufual  periume,  which     _ 
lily  pofliffcfc  a  violet   fmcll.      The  whiteft  and 
X..  ^,  P  foundeft 


st  HAIR. 

&uod«ft.r«ot9  muft  be  nude  chtnee  of,  and  «re  b>  fae 
powdered  as  Bne  as  polEble,  which  can  only  be  dooo 
Ruling  the  fummer. 

The  following  powder  ftands  highly  recommended^ 
jbr  promoting  the  regencratitxi  o&thc  hair,  and  llrength- 
cning  and  ncniril}iing  its  roots : 

Take  roots  of  calamus  aromaticus,  (prfweet  Bag)  and 
red  rofes  dried,  of  each  an  ounce  and  a  halfj  gqm  Ben-<. 
jainin>  an  ounce  j  aloes  wood,  three  quarters  (^an  ounce, 
bean  flour  and  Florentine  orrice  root,  of  each  half  ^ 
pound ;  mix  them  all  together,  and  reduce  them  to  a 
fine  powder.  You  may  add,  if  agreeable,  a  few  grains 
of  muflc  or  civet. 

Though  evety  perfor>  docs  not  poflefs  a  fine  bead  of 
lair,  yet  there  are  very  few  who,  by  taking  a  little  pains, 
may  not  preferye  it  from  certMn  defe6:s,  that  are  very 
obfervable,  fuch  as,  ftrft,  the  hair  falling  off;  fecondly, 
becoming  forky  and  fplitting ;  thirdly,  being  eat  away 
byruft. 

The  falling  off  of  the  hair  is  gencraUy  the  confe- 
qucnce  of  the  cavities  in  which  the  rooti  are  lodged  be-< 
coming  too  lai^e. 

It  is  remarked  alfo  that  die  hair  frequently  fails  off  ^^'■ 
tcr  certajn  diftafcs,  as  fevers,  fmall-pox,  &c.  thefe  d 
eales  being  accMnpanied  with  profufe  fwcats,  or  otl 
fymptoms,  which  enlai^  the  cavities  of  the  hair.  T 
caufc  being  explained  it  follows,  that  there  can  be 
better  method  employed  to  prevent  the  hair  falling  t 
than  having  recourfe  to  fuch  thin^  as  ftraiten  the  po: 
whence  it  iffues.  It  has  been  recommended  to  Wi 
the  head  at  times  with  a  little  verjuice.  The  juice 
of  onions  produces  the  fame  eficft;  it  may  be  Ibmetia 
neceflary  to  try  various  methods  to  obtain  our  defi 

A 


H   A   1    3^^  t| 

fbHowing  preparadofU  all  ftand  re^ionimended  ' 

;  btfis  of  expei^ence : 

iwder  your  head  with  bruifed  pardey  feed,  at 

ficc  in  two  or  three  months,  and  the  hak  will 

1  off.  . 

>  quicken  the  growth  of  your  haifj  dip  yout 
,^  w/cry  morning  in  the  exprefied  juice  of  nettles, 
comb  tHie  hair  the  wrong  way.  This  expedient  will 
rifii^ly  quicksn  its  groMh. 
.  After  Iharing  the  head,  foment  it  frequently  with 
xx>dion  of  worinwood>  ibuthemwood^  fage,  bciony, 
'ain,  marjoram,  myrtle,  and  rofes. 
.  Take  die  tops  of  heinp  as  fxm  as  the  plants  ap* 
above  ground,  and  infiife  them  in  wmct  twenty- 
houn.    Dip  die  leedt  of  your  comb  in  this  fliiid 
7  morning  when  cotnlHng  the  head,  and  it  mil  <^-' 
J  quicken  die  grOwUi  of  the  hur. 
.  The  MHamog  liniment  is  wefl  cal<:ulated  to  an- 
the  fame  intention : 

'ake  fix  drams  of  hbdanum,  two  ounces  of  bear's 
fe,  half  an  ounce  of  honey,  three  drams  of  powdered 
hemnrood,  a  dram  and  half  of  the  affacs  of  calamus 
nadoB,  with  a  fufficient  quantity  of  the  oil  of  fweet 
)nds,  to  make  it  into  a  liniment,  nearly  of  the  con- 
nce  of  pCHnatum. 

.  We  fhall  conclude  with  the  following  compound 
br  Ae  fame  intention  j  which  rery  quickly  makes 
bir  fhoot  out: 

'tkt  hdf  a  pound  cf  green  fonthemwood  bnnfed» 
K  in  a  pint  and  a  half  of  fweet  oil,  and  half  a  pint 
d  wine ;  when  fufficiendy  boiled,  remove  it  from 
ire,  and  fltain  the  liquor  dirough  a  linen  bag^j  re- 
D  a  peas 


se  H    A    I    It 

pcKt  this  opera  aon  three  denes  wtdi  frefli  Jbutherm 
the  lafl:  time  add  to  the  ftrained  liquor  two  ouik 
bears  greafe. 

.  The  hairs  are  apt  to  fplit  ia  ^e  end  into  two  or 
fibres  J  which  proceeds  moft  commonly  from, 
gence  and  want  of  cuniag. 

To  change  ihe  colour  of  the.  hair  is  certainly  dif 
though  by  no  ipeaps  impoffible.  When  the  hair  is 
from  old  age,  it  is  common  to  life  a  leaden  con 
make  it  darker ;  and  the  fame  expedioit  is  often  | 
fed  with  ''cd  hair.  This  method,  htiwever,  makes  nc 
cal  change  of  the  colour,  an^  only  (Jil^ifes  it  foi 
times  the  troe .colour  alw^s, returning, uidcfs  per 
recourie  is  ha4rt»  the  lead. 
-  When  the  hair  js  -grey  in  ^wg  people,  or  ind 
any  difagreeaWe  colour,,  it  m^-bc  coireftfrf,  or 
ged,  though  not  without  much  trouble  and  p»i 
The  moll:  certain  way  of  accomplilhing  this  end 
cutting  otF  the  hair  as  clofe  to  the  fkin  as  po^bli 
then  walhing  the  head  with  any  of  the  foUoying  < 
tion&i  fo  tha{  the  remedy  may  pepetrate  the  deep 
the  roots  of  the  hair ;  and  afterwards,  .in  propon 
the  hair  grows,  more  care  ough^  to  be  taken  in  w 
the  head,  which  mediod  miift  be  continued  for } 
weeks.  If  thefe  do  not  abfolutely  change  the.c 
tiiey  will  at  leafl  do  much  better  than  a  leaden  co 
Decoi^ions  9f  night  ihade,  mugwort,  arfefmitri 
mander,  colombine,  penny  royal,  or  die  root  of  t 
rick ;  the  leav£S-.of  the  wild  vinf;  change  the  t^int 
and  prevent -thpir  ■failing  off  J  burnt  ijorks,  rpptt. 
holm  oak,  and  caper  tree^  barks  of  willow,  vtfdxvi 
and  pomegranate;  leave;  U*  artichokes,  th^jni 


H    A    I    &.  it 

rec,  fi^tree,  rafberry-tnifk ;  llidls  of  beans,  gall  ind 
yprcls-nutsj  leaves  of  myrtle  j  green  Ihells  of  walnuts, 
vy.  berries,  cockle,  and  red  beet  feeds,  and  poppy  flow- 
rs.  Any  of  thefe  ingredients  may  be  boiled  in  rain 
rater,  vine,  or  vinegar,  with  the  addition  of  fome  ce- 
halic  plant,  as  fage,  marjoram,,  balm,  betony,  clove 
jty  flowers,  &c. 

Compofaion  to  change  Hair  Black.  Firft,  wa(h  your 
ead  Mith  fpring  water,  then  dip  your  comb  in  oil  of 
utar,  and  comb  yourfelf  in  the  fun ;  repeat  this  ope- 
otion  three  tinnes  a  day  for  the  courfe  of  ei^t  or  ten 
aysy  St  the'  expiration  of  which  time  the  hair  will  be- 
if  a  fine  black ;  to  give  it  a  delightful  peifv]me>  anoint 
»th'  a  little  oil  of  Benjamin. 

The  following  is  perhaps  as  eafy,  cheap,  and  eflictoi- 
ms  a  method  of  changing  the  colour  of  hair,  as  any  ever 
nvented,  and  has  been  frequently  advertifcd,  and  fold 
t  the  moderate  rate  of  ten  (hillings  a  pint : 

To  two  ounces  oC  black  lead  finely  powdered  add 
ine  ounce  of  ebotxy  (havings ;  boil  therp  in  a  qu»t  of 
lear  water  tilt  reduced  to  about  a  pint;  (Uter  the  de-, 
o^cm,  add  a  little'  bergamot,  or  any  other  perflime, 
nd  botde  die  liquidfor  ufe. 

The  beft  method  bf  ufing  fuch  liquids  is  by  fixirtg  a 
stall  fpdnge'  on  the  upper  part  of  the  comb,  and  dip- 
ling  it  in  the  prep«ruion,  as  tiie  hair  will  thus  be  more 
fieduatly  -wetand  tinged,  i^an  by  the  comb  alone. 

Red,  cir  lilndy  c<)kHjred  hair<  may  in  a  very  Ihort  time 
e  changed  to  a  beautiful  flaxen  by  afliftance  of  the  fol- 
Bwing*  centficiftlteh  i~ 

.  Take  a  tfoaa  tiQ  lye  pr«paFed  from  the  aihes  of  vine 
wigsj  briony,  celandine  roots,  and  turmeric,  of  each 
,  -i    ■  .half 


M  H   A    I    A. 

fcjlf  an  ounce;  faffion  and  tiljr  roots,  of  each  two  dnins# 
flowers  of  mullein,  yellow  ftechas,  broom,  and  St.  John's   • 
wort,  each  a  dram ;  boil  thefc  ingredients  tt^cthcr,  and 
ftrwn  off  the  liquor. 

It  muft  be  (^lervcd,  that  as  the  hair  does  not  fiioot 
•uc  6-om  the  cxtremuies,  but  from  the  rocKs,  frequcni 
application  of  any  of  the  foregoing  compOGnons  b  tie- 
et&ryt  or  the  hair  viU  in  time  ^pear  of  two  coloun. 

When  the  hair  is  much  n^leded,  it  is  very  apt  to 
become  rully,  as  well  as  forked ;  and  a  kind  of  Scab 
forms  at  the  roots  j  this  ruft  is  often  lb  corroGv^  diat  riie 
hair  will  &U  off  in  fpots,  juft  as  the  hair  of  a  muff  which 
h»  been  a  long  time  expofed  a>  dampncfs. 

This  may  eafily  be  prevented  by  frequendy  comlMng 
it :  and  indeed  thofe  ladies  and  gentlemen  who  hjivc 
their  hair  drefTed  daily,  fhould  yet  nnake  a  point  to  hsve 
k  often  combed  frwn  the  rooo,  to  prevent  die  powder, 
pomatum,  &c.  from  obftrufting  the  perfpirationi  a 
circun^iattce  that  will  more  readily  create  diforders  in 
die  head  and  eyes;  than  any  quantity  of  hair,  iwwever 
great. 

When  this  defctf-mity  has  alreadytaken  place,  the  beft 
procedure  is  to  cut  off  the  hair  entirely,  and  then  waflt 
the  head  with  a  ftrong  deco£tiofi  c^  ceUndine,  woim- 
wood,  &ge,  balm,  and  tobacco,  bmi&d  all  together  and 
btuled  in  a  fujHcient  qoaotity  of  red  wine.  After  wafli' 
ing  the  head  with  this  deeoftim,  a  littk  warm,  dip  a 
linen  cloth  inm  it,  which  mtift  be  ajiidicd  10  the  bead, 
and  continued  on  it  for  two  or  threv  di^. 

To  this  may  be  joined  the  ufc  of  SixOt  other  oi  die 
forgoing  prefcriptions  j  or  one  of  the  feUowing  may 
prove  no  lefs  efieftual :  . 

Take 


HAMS.  ij 

Tike  roots  of  a  maiden  vine,  roots  of  hemp,  and  cores 

'  &>h  cabbages,  of  each  two  hxndfuls!  dtyuid  burn 

em,  and  make  a  lye  trith  the  afiies  j  after  rubbing  the 

irt  veil  with  honey,  wafli  it  with  this  lye  feverai  days 

cccflively. 

To  tiiofc  who  are  more  fond  of  preparatioos  in  die 

rm  of  pomatums,  the  following  may  be  deferredly  re- 

rmmended: 

Take  hen's  fat, oil  ofhempfeed,  and  honey,  of  eacha 

nind ;  melt  them  together  in  an  an  earthen  pipkin* 

id  keep  Sirring  the  mixture  with  a  wooden  fpoon'dU 

lid.    This  pomatum,  to  produce  the  defired  effeft, 

ufi  be  rubbed  on  the  part  dght  or  ten  dsfs  fucceffivety. 


HAMS. 

90  nre  Hams.  Cut  off  a  fine  ham  from  a  fat 
nd  quarter  of  pork.  Take  two  ounces  of  falt-petre, 
pound  of  coarie  fugar,  a  pound  of  common  fait, 
k)  two  ounces  of  fal-prunella ;  mix  all  tc^ether, 
id  rub  it  well.  I.et  it  lie  a  month  in  this  pickle, 
iming  and  bafting  it  every  day ;  then  liang  it  in 
ood  fmoke,  as  you  do  beef,  in  a  dry  place,  fo  as  no 
nt  comes  to  it  -,  and,  if  you  keep  them  long,  hang 
lem  a  month  or  two  in  a  damp  place,  and  it  will  make 
kcm  cut  fine  and  fhon.  Never  lay  thefe  hams  in  water 
11  you  boil  them,  atid  theft  boil  them  in  a  copper,  if 
ttu  have  one,  Qr  the  largeft  pot  you  have.  Put  them 
1  the  cold  water,  and  let  them  be  four  or  five  hours 
eibre  they  boil.  Skim'  the  pot  well,  and  often,  till  it 
oils.  If  it  is  a  very  large  one,  three  hours  will  boil  it  t 

if 


-4  HAM    S. 

if  a  fmall  one,  two  hours  will  do,  provided  it  be  a  great 
while  before  the  water  boib;  Take  it  up  half  an  hour  ' 
liefore  dinner,  pull  off  the  (kin,  and  throw  rafpings, 
findy.fifted,  all  over.  Hold  a  red  hot  fire-ftiorelover, 
and  when  dinner  is  ready,  take  afew  rafpings  in  a  fievc, 
and  fife  all  over  the  difli ;  then  Jay  in-  your  ham,  and, 
with  your  finger,  make  fine  figures  round  the  edge- of 
your  diih.  Be  fure  to  boil  your  ham  in  as  much  water 
its  you  can,  and  keep  it  fkimming  all  the  time  it  boils. 
}t  mud  be  at  leaft  four  hours  before  it  both. 

This  pickle  docs  finely  for  tongues  afterwards,  to  lie 
in  it  a  fortnight,  and  then  hang  in  the  wood  fmoke  a 
fortnight,  or  to  boil  them  out  of  the  pickle. 

Yorkfhlre  is  famous  for  hams,  and  the  rcafon  U  this, 
their  fait  is  much  finer  than  ours  in  London  ;  it  is  a  large 
clear  fait,  and  gives  the  meat  a  fine  flavour.  That 
from  Maiden,  in  EfTex,  will  make  any  ham  as  fine  as 
you  can  defire.  It  is  by  much  the  beft  fait  for  falling 
tneat. 

When  you  broil  any  of  thefe  hams  in  flices,  or  bacon, 
have  fome  boiling  waar  ready,  and  let  die  flices  lie  a 
minute  or  two  in  water,  then  broil  them ;  it  takes  out 
the  fait,  and  makes  them  eat  finer.     See  alfo  Bacon. 

To  boil  a  Ham.  ^  Steep  it  all  night  in  foft  water ; 
a  Jarge  one  fliould  fimmer  three  hours,  and  boil  gendy 
two ;  a  fmall  wie  fliould  fimmer  two  hours,  and  boii 
about  one  and  a  half.  Pull  off  the  fkin,  rub  it  over  with  a 
yolk  of  egg,  ftrew  on  bread  crumbs,  fet  it  before  the 
fire  till  of  a  nice  light  brown. 

Or,  Put  your  ham  into   a  copper  of  cold  water, 

and  when  it  boils,  take  care  that  it  boils  (lowly.    A  ham 

pf  twenty  pounds  will  take  four  hours  and  a  half  boiling, 

2  and 


^6  HARE. 

as  sbove^  and  let  it  ftand  a  quarter  of 
(he  fat  out.  Strain  the  liquor  it  was  ftei 
mtng  off  all  the  fat>  put  it  into  the  ^ra 
with  a  fpoonfiU  of  browoing.  Sometii 
it  up  with  carp  iauce,  and  fometitiu 
craw-fifh. 

7b  roafi  a  Ham>  or  a  Gammok  o/B 
your  ham  or  gammon,  then  take  (M\ 
with  oatmeal  fifted  very  fine,  baAc  it 
it  will  make  a  ftronger  froth  than  eit 
crumbs,  then  roafl  it.  When  it  is  ei 
and  pour  brown  gravy  in  your  dif 
green  parHey,  and  fend  it  to  tab^e. 

T^ajied  Bread  and  Ham  with  Eca 
bread  of  what  bigncfs  you  pleafe,  fry 
t  good  colour  J  take  as  many  fliccs  ( 
them  over  a  flow  fue  in  butter  tiU  th< 
ing  them  often ;  then  lay  them  upon 
cullis  into  the  flxwp^,  give  it  a  boi 
flcar  off)  and  add  a  little  broth  and  vi 
mcnt,  and  ferve  upon  the  toaft. — Th 
the  feme,  if  you  would  ferve  it  with 
^y  fort  of  ftcwed  greens. 


HARE. 
To  roaji  a  Hare.  When  the  hare 
(his  manner;  bring  the  two  hind  legs  i 
the  fore  legs  back,  put  your  fkewcr  fi 
then  into  the  fore  leg,  and  thrufl  it  tl 
put  the  fore  leg  on,  and  then  the  hind 
;hro'  the  top  of  the  fhoulders  and  bac] 


will  hoH  die  head 

a  quarter  of  a  pound 

,  a  handful  of  parllt 

ts,  (uch  as  bafil,  ir 

hyme,  chopped  fiiu 

cut  fine,  pepp 

with  two  cgj 

and  lb  fkcwei 

which  muft  I 

upwards  of  an 

mode  of  truC 

e  of  carving. 

ipijy.    Skewer 

:r,  the  fore  lej 

1}  imke  your 

a  quarter  of  a 

Iter  of  a  poui 

_  or  two  of  win 

e  anchovy,  a  little  kya 

1 }  mix  diem  up  in  a  li 

i  wine  and  two  eggs ; 

re,  few  it  up,  put  a  qij 

ng-pan,  ta&e  your  hart 

lint,  then  duft  and  bdl 

arge  one,  it  will  requir 

Another  way.   Stuff  the 

Cad  crumbs,  chopped 

ifed,  lemon-peel  grated 

pper,  fall,  nutmeg,  the 

re,  put  a  quart  of  fmal! 

ree  pints,  according  to 

th  this  till  idl  is  ufed  j 


ftS  HARE. 

it  with  butter  j  fend  it  to  table  with  a  fine 
have  tried  all  the  different  ways  recommei 
ft  hare  with,  and  never  found  any  thing  fo  f 
beer.  For  fauce,  gravy,  melted  buttei 
faucc."     [Ma/on's  Jrt  of  Cookery.'] 

Different  Sauces  for  a  Hare.  Take  for  i 
of  cream,  and  half  a  pound  of  frefli  butter  j 
a  faucepan,  and  keep  Ilirring  it  with  a  fpooi 
ter  is  melted,  and  the  fauce  is  thick :  ther 
hare,  and  pour  the  fauce  into  the  difti. 
to  make  fauce  for  a  hare  is,  to  make  good  j 
ened  with  alitde  piece  of  butter  rolled  in  flc 
it  into  your  difli.  You  may  leave  the  butt 
do  not  hke  it,  and  ha^e  fome  currant  jelly 
cup,  or  red  wine  and  fugar  boiled  to  a  fyru 
.Take  a  pint  of  red  wine,  a  quarter  of  a  po 
and  fet  over  a  flow  fire  to  fimmcr  for  abou 
an  hour.  You  may  do  half  the  quantity,  aj 
your  fauce  boat  or  bafon. 

To  forendine  a  Hare.  Take  a  grown  1 
her  hang  up  four  or  five  days,  then  cafe  h 
on  the  cars ;  and  take  out  all  the  bones  exc 
which  muft  be  left  on  whole ;  lay  your  ha 
table,  cover  the  infide  with  a  force-meat,  an 
up  to  the  head }  fkewer  it  with  the  head  a 
ing  back,  ye  it  with  packthread  as  you  v> 
of  veal,  wrap  it  in  a  cloth,  and  boil  it  an  h< 
in  a  faucepan  with  a  cover  on  it,  with  two  > 
ter.  When  your  liquor  b  reduced  to  one 
a  pint  of  red  wine,  a  fpoonful  of  lenion-pi( 
of  catchup,  the  £ime  of  browning,  and  ft 


HARE.  2j 

educed  to  a  pint;  thicken  it  in  butter  rolled  in  flour> 
ly  round  your  hare  a  few  morels,  and  four  dices  of 
jrce-meat,  boiled  in  a  caul  of  leg  of  veal.  When  you 
jlh  it  up,  draw  the. jaw-bones,'  and  ftick  them  in  the 
yes  for  horns;  let  the  ears  lie  back  On  the  roll,  and  fticfc. 
fprig  of  myrtle  in  the  mouth ;  ftrain  over  your  fauce, 
nd  fcrve  it  up.  Garnilh  with  barberries  and  parfley. — 
i'orcc-meat  for  the  hare:  take  the  crumb  of  a  penny 
oaf,  the  liver  flired  6ne,  half  a  pound  of  fat  bacon 
craped,  a  glafs  of  red  wine,  one  anchovy,  two  eggs, 
1  little  winter  favory,  fweet  marjoram,  lemon-thyme^ 
lepper,  fait,  and  nutm^  to  your  tafte. 

To  drefs  a  Har^,  When  the  hare  is  cafcd,  cut  it  in 
wo  juft  below  the  ribs ;  cut  the  fore  quarters  into 
nieces,  and  put  them  into  a  clean  llewpan,  with  a 
slade  or  two  of  mace,  an  onion  ftuck  with  cloves,  foihc 
ffhole  pepper,  an  anchovy,  and  a  bunch  of  Iweet  herbs ; 
:over  them  with  water,  and  let  them  ftew  gently;  make  a 
pudding andpiit  into  the  belly  of  the  other  part;  lardand 
roaft  it,  flour  and  bafte  it  well  with  butter  or  fmall  beer. 
When  the  flew  is  tender,  take  it  out  with  a  fork  into  adifh, 
and  flrainoffthe  liquor;  put  into  it  a  glafs  of  red  wine,  a 
fpoonful  of  good  catchup,  and  a  piece  of  butter  rolled 
in  flour;  Ihake  all  together  over  the  fire  till  it  is  of  a 
good  thicknefs;  take  up  the  roafted  hare,  and  lay  it  in 
the  middle  of  the  dilh,  with  the  flew  rounl,  and  faucc 
poured  over  it,  and  fome  good  gravy  in  a  boat. 

Hare  O'la-daube,  Cut  a  hare  in  fix  pieces;  bone 
and  lard  them  with  bacon,  feafon  with  fpices,  powder 
of  laurel,  chopped  parfley,  thyme^  fhallots,  and  one 
clove  of  garlick;  braze  it  with  flices  of  lard,  theboncs,a 
little  broth,  as  much  of  the  blood  as  you  can  fave,  a  glafs 

of 


to  HARE. 

£  brandy,  and  a  quarter  <rf"  a  pound  of  good  buttcrj 
fcop  the  pan  well>  and  ftew  it  on  a  very  flow  fire,  or  in 
heovai,  ^wuc  four  hours i  then  takeout  the  bones, 
nit  the  hare  into  a  cureen,  and  the  flices  of  bacon  upm 
li  lift  the  feuce,  and  put  it  into  the  turcenj  let  it  cool 
tefbre  ufing.    It  ought  to  be  like  a  pie. 

^0  fiare a'HKM.,  Lard  a  hare,  and  put  a  pudding  in 
he  belljT;  put  ic  into  a  pot  or  filh  kettle,  then  put  to  if 
wo  quarts  of  ftrong-drawn  gravy,  one  of  red  wine,  a 
rhole  lenwn  cut,  a  faggot  of  fwect  herbs,  nutmeg,  pcp- 
icr,  a  little  fait,  and  fix  cloves ;  cover  it  clofe,  and  ftew 
t  over  a  flow  fire  till  it  is  three  parts  done  j  then  take  it 
ip,  put  it  into  a  difh,  and  drew  it  over' with  crumbs 
f  bread,  fwect  herbs  chopped  fine,  feme  lemon-peel 
;rated,  and  half  a  nutmcgj  fet  it  before  the  fire,  and 
laftc  it  till  it  is  of  a  fine  light  brown.  In  the  mean 
:me,  take  the  fat  off  your  gravy,  and  thicken  it  with  the 
oik  of  an  egg.  Take  fix  e^p,  boiled  hard  and  chop- 
ed  fmall,  feme  pickled  cucumbers  cut  very  tlun  j  mix 
lefe  with  a  fauce,  and  pour  it  into  the  difli. 

A  fillet  of  mutton,  or  neck  of  vcnifon,  may  be  done 
»e  fame  way. 

Note. — You  may  do  rabbits  the  fame  way,  but  it 
luft  be  veal  gravy  and  white  wine,  adding  muflirooms 
<r  cucumbys. 

A  Hare  Civet.  Bone  your  hare,  and  take  out  all 
lefinewsj  cut  one  half  in  thin  flices,  and  the  other 
ilf  in  pieces  an  inch  thick,  flour  them,  and  fry  them  in 
little  frefh  butter,  as  collops,  quick,  and  have  ready 
me  gravy  made  with  the  bones  of  the  hare  and  beef; 
It  a  pint  of  it  into  the  pan  to  the  hare,  fome  muflard, 
id  a  little  elder  vincgai*;  cover  it  clofe,  and  let  it  do 
I  fofUy 


HARE.  31 

(bfcly  till  it  is  as  thick  99  crcan^  thcadiOiit  ui^^thibi 
bead  in  the  middle. 

ToJIew  a  HaI^e.    When  you  have  paunehed  and 

cafed  your  hare>  cut  her  as  for  eating,  put  faer  into  t 

large  faucepan  iffith  three  pints  of  beef  gravy,  a  pint  ol 

red  wine,  a  large  onion  fiuck  widi  cloves,  a  bundle  o 

'ory,  a  (lice  of  horfe-radifh,  two  blades  on 

ace,  one  anchovy,  a  fpoonful  of  walnut  01 

hup,  one  of  browning,  half  a  lennoo,kyan  and 

ir  taftc;  put  on  a  dofe  cover,  and  fet  it  ova 

re,  and  ftew  it  for  two  hours;  then  take  it  up 

p-dilh,  and  thicken  your  gravy  with  a  lumj 

rolled  in  flour  j  boil  it  a  little,  and  Ifaaio  11 

-  hare.    Gamifh  with  lemon-peel  cut  likt 

d  ferve  it  up. 

w^r/.  Take  a  young  hare,  and  cut  it  iatc 
ten  pieces,  the  two  1^,  two  wings  or  flioulders,  iht 
chine  in  four,  and  the  ftomachand  fkirts  in  two;  put  i 
into  your  Itewpan,  with  about  three  half  pints  of  Pen- 
wine,  two  or  three  onions,  a  carrot  or  two,  fome  Iwee 
baTil,  thyme,  and  parfley,  and  a  ladte  of  gravy;  a  littli 
f^t  and  pepper,  a  clcve  or  two,  and  a  bit  of  mace,  an 
let  it  ftew  gcndy  for  two  hours.  Take  out  your  ban 
clean  into  anodier  ftcwpan,  and  ftrain  your  lauce  ti 
it,  adding  a  ladle  of  cuUis,  and  if  not  thick  encnigfa 
put  in  a  bit  of  butter  and  flour ;  boil  it  a  minute,  ant 
keep  it  hot  till  your  dinner  i^  ready;  throw  in 
:^)OonfuI  or  two  of  capers,  fome  minced  pariley,  and  th 
juice  of  a  lemon  or  orange ;  and  fcrve  it  up  with  fom 
fried  bits  of  bread  in  the  difh,  andround  it. 

jiaotbtr  wojf.     Cue  off  the  legs  and  fboulders,  cu 
em  the  back-bonci  cut  the  meat  which  comes  off  th 

fide 


J» 


HARE. 


fides  into  pieces;  put  all  into  avcflel,  witi; 
ters  of  a  pint  of  fmall  beer,  the  fame  of  w; 
onion  ftuck  With  cloves,  fome  whole  pepp 
Jemon,.  fome  faltj  ftew  this  gently  for  a 
coTercd,  then  put  to  it  a  quart  of  good  gi 
gently  for  two  hours  longfer,  or  till  tender: 
hkrc,  rub  half  a  fpoonful  of  flour  fmooi 
gravy,  put  it  to  the  fauce,  boil  It  upj  add  k 
-  if  neceflary,  and  put  in  the  hare.  When  I 
fcrvc  it  in  a  tureen  difli.    It  is  an  exceedin 

To  hodge-podge  a  Hare.  Take  your  1 
■  it  in  pieces  as  if  you  intended  it  for  ftew 
into  the'pitcher,  with  two  or  three  onions 
and  pepper,  a  bunch  of  fwpet  herbs,  ant 
butter;  ftop  the  pitcher  very  clofe  to'previ 
from  getting  out,  fet  it  in  a  ketde  full  of  b 
keep  the  kettle  filled  up  as  the  water  wafte 
four  or  five  hours  at  leaft.  You  may,  w 
put  the  hare  into  the  ketde,  put  in  lettuce, 
celery,  and  turnips,  if  you  like  it  better. 

To  jug  a  Hare.  Cut  your  hare  into 
and  Jard  them  here  and  there  with  litde  fli 
fcafon  them  with  a  little  pepper  and  fal 
them  into  an  earthen  jug  with  a  blade  or 
an  onion  ftuck  with  cloves,  and  a  bun 
herbs.  Coyer  the  jug  clofe,  that  nothing 
fet  it  in  a  pot  of  boiling  water,  and  three 
it}  then  turn  it  out  into  the  difh,  uke  ( 
and  fweet  herbs,  and  fend  it  hot  to  table 
larding  you  may  omit  it  if  you  plcafe. 

Mother  way.  Take  the  hare,  and  cut  it 
leafon  it  with  pepper,  fait,  and  beaten  mac 


H 

a  jug  or  pitcher,  with  a 
fweet  herbs,  and  fet  it  i 
it  Hand  till  it  is  tender, 
gravy  into  a  tofling  pan, 
mchovy,  a  large  onion  fl 
nace,  and  kyan  pepper 
ind  thicken  it.  Difli  up 
>ver  it,  then  fend  it  up. 

To  hajh  a  Hare.  C 
f  any  of  the  pudding  is  le 
0  which  pijt  a  glafs  of  r< 
in  onion,  a  flicC  of  lemo 
ake  out  the  onion  and  le 

AHother  way.  Cut  it  ii 
ny  of  the  pudding  left,  n 
f  red  wine,  the  fame  qua 
hopped  fine,  an  onion  ftui 
;r  of  a  pound  of  butter  ro 
?ther  over  a  flow  fire  till ; 
:isa  bad  cuftom  to  let  an; 
ardens  the  meal.  Send  yc 
ut  before  you  fcnd  it  uj 
ppets  rQund  the  difli. 

To  collar  aYiA-ki.  Bon 
ieces  of  bacon,  feafoned 
x)d  force-meat  in  it,  or  ; 
•  it  well ;  braze  it  with 
hite  wine,  and  a  pint  o: 
ices  of  bacon.  You  ma] 
afoning  to  make  a  jelly 
ehare  cold  with  it,  cither 
Vol,  II, 


j4  HARE. 

Hare  Cake,  Chop  the  Belh  of  a  hare  va 
fome  bacon  in  dice  about  half  the  quantit/; 
pepper,  a  little  fait,  and  fpice,  a  green  on 
and  a  morfel  of  Ihallot;  mix  all  well  togethi 
pare  a  ftcwpan  juft  wide  enough,  that  it  msy 
jjjout  two  inches  thick  j  line  your  bottom  w 
con,  and  cover  it  with  the  fan^e;  pour  in 
broth,  and  a  glafs  of  red  wine,  fome  flici 
onion,  and  herbs;  lee  it  limmcr  gently  for 
hours,  take  off  the  cover  and  let  it  cool;  tl 
take  ic  out,  and  trim  it  nice  round;  pound 
bacon  it  was  ftewed  in,  and  when  you  fervi 
fpread  it  upon  the  top  like  fugar  upon  a 
and  ferve  it  to  table  upon  a  napkin.  If  it  is 
will  keep  a  fortnight  for  flices. 

Veal  cake  may  be  done  in  the  fame  mani 
ftead  of  red  wine  put  white,  and  do  not 
much,  but  that  every  one  at  cable  may  fee 

Hare  Cake  m  jelly.  Having  boned  tl 
picked  out  the  linews,  add  an  equal  quant 
chop  thefe  and  pound  them;  add  frefli 
fhallot,  (and  garlick  if  agreeable)  fweet  hci 
and  fait,  two  or  three  cggs;  mix  thefe  wit 
pickled  cucumbers  cut  like  dice,  put  it  ii 
Iheeted  with  flices  of  bacon ;  cover  it,  bake 
rate  oven ;  when  cold,  turn  it  out.  Lay 
following  jelly: — A  pound  and  a  half  of  fen 
flice  of  ham,  two  or  three  cloves,  a  little  ni 
fweet  herbs,  a  carrot  or  two,  fome  IhaUoi 
leaves,  an  ounce  of  ifinglals,  with  fome 
ftew  this  till  it  will  jelly,  pafs  it  through 
then  through  a  bag;  add  fome  lemon  juice. 


[    35    1  . 

HARTSHORN.— Sec  Flummery  W  Jellies,, 


HAS  H.— See  Calves  Head,  &c.  &c. 


H  A  T  L  E  T  S 

Are  proper  for  lide  diflies,  and  are  made  as  follows : 
rft  parboil  veal  fwcet-breads,  and  cut  them  into  fmall 
ieces,  with  livers  of  capons,  and  young  ftreaked  baoon 
kewiie  parboiled^  then  feafon  all,  and  fry  them  with 
larttey,  chibbols,  and  fine  flour ;  and  when  they  are  al- 
noft  ready,  fo  that  only  a  thin  fauce  is  left,  make 
atlets  according  to  the  bignefs  you  would  have  them 
e,  then  dip  them  in  the  fauce,  and  bread  them  well  j 
ley  may  be  either  broiled  upon  a  gridiron  or  fried. 

Hatlets  are  often  ufed  for  garninitngdifhes  ofroaft 
meat. 


H  E  A  D-A  C  H. 

Whatever  obftruds  the  fi-ee  circulation  of  the  bloocil 
[irough  the  vefTels  of  the  head,  may  occafion  a  hcad- 
ch.  In  perfons  of  a  flill  habit,  who  abound  with  blood, 
r  other  humours,  the  head-ach  very  often  proceeds  from 
fic  fuppreflion  of  cuflomary  evacuations,  as  bleeding  at 
lie  nofe,  &c.  It  may  likewife  proceed'  from  cotdnefs 
f  the  extremities,  or  hanging  down  the  head  for  a  long 
ime.  Whatever  prevents  the  return  of  the  blood  from 
ic  head,  will  likewife  occafion  a  head-ach;  as  looking 
F  i  long 


36  H    E    A    D  -  A    C    H. 

long  obliquely  at  any  object,  wearing  any  thing  tight 
about  the  neck,  or  the  like. 

When  a  hcad-ach  proceeds  from  the  ftoppage  of  a 
running  at  the  nofe,  there  is  a  heavy,    obtufe.  Dreflloe- 
pain  in  the  fore  part  of  the  head,  in  which  t 
to  be  fuch  a-  weight,  that  the  patient  can 
it  up. 

Want  of  food  will  alfo  occafion  head-achs 
in  nurfes  who  give  fuck  too  long,  or  do  not  t 
cient  quantity  of  folid  food. 

There  is  likewife  a  moft  violent  fixed,  coi 
almofl:  intolerable  head-ach,  which  occalion 
bility  both  of  body  and  mind,  prevents  flee] 
the  appetite,  caufes  a  vertigo,  dimnefs  of  fig 
in  the  cars,  convulfions,  epileptic  fits,  and 
vomiting,  coftivenefs,  coldncfs  of  the  extren 
is  likewife  a  very  common  fymptom  in  hyftej 
pochondriac  complaints. 

In  this,difeafe  the  cool  regimen  in  gener: 
obfcrved.'  The  diet  ought  to  confift  of  fuch 
fubftances  as  will  keep  the  body  openj  as  apj 
in  milk,  fpipach,  turnips,  and  fuch  like.  ' 
3ught  to  be  diluting,  as  barley  water,  infufio 
■nucilaginoiis  vegethbles,  dccOftions  of  the 
voods,  See.  The  feet  and  legs  ought  to  be  k 
ind  frequently  bathed  in  luke-warm  water  j 
iromatlc  bath,  recommended  vol.  I.  p.  55.  1 
)ught  as  much  as  pofllble  to  keep  in  an  ere^ 
md  not  to  lie  with  his  head  too  low. 

When  the  head-ach  is  owing  to  excefs  of 
n  hot  bilious  conftitution,  bleeding  is  itece 


HEAD-AC    H.  37 

;  operation  to  be  repeated  if  tliere-  be  any  occafion. 
ipping  alfo,  or  the  application  of  leeches  to  the  tem- 
s  and  behind  the  ears,  will  be  of  fcrvice.  After- 
rds  a  bliftering  plafter  may  be  applied  to  the  neck, 
bind  the  ears,  or  to  any  part  of  the  head  that  is  moft 
e&ed.  In  fome  cafes  it  will  be  proper  to  blifter  the 
cAe  head,  In  perfons  of  a  grofs  habit,  iffues  or  per- 
cual  blifters  will  be  of  fervice.  The  body  ought  likc- 
c  to  be  kept  open  by  gentle  laxatives. 
When  the  head  -ach  is  occaGoned  by  the  ftoppagc  of 
\3nning  at  the  nofe,  the  patient  fhould  frequently  fmell 
a  bottle  of  volatile  falts;  he  may  likewife  take  fnuff, 
any  thing  that  will  irritate  the  nofe,  fo.as  to  pro- 
)te  a  difcharge  &om  it,  as  the  herb  maftick,  ground- 
f>  &c. 

A  periodical  head-ach  is  generally  owing  to  a  foul- 
fs  of  the  ftomach,  for  which  gentle  vomits  muft  be 
nniniftered,  as  alfo  purges  of  rhubarb.  After  the 
wels'have  been  fufficiently  cleared,  fuch  bitters  as 
cngthen  the  ftomach  will  be  neceflary. 
When  the  head-ach  arifes  from  a  vitiated  ftate  of  the  ■ 
mourSi  as  in  the  fcurvy,  the  patient,  after  proper  cva- 
ations,  muft  drink  freely  of  the  decoftions  of  woods, 
the  decoftion  of  farfaparilla,  with  raifins  and  Jiquo- 
;e.  Thefe  promote  perfpiration,  fwecten  the  hu- 
ours,  and,  if  duly  perfifted  in,  will  produce  very 
ppy  effefts.  When  a  cplleftion  of  matter  is  felt  un- 
r  the  Ikin,  it  muft  be  difcharged  by  an  incifion,  oiher- 
fe  it  will  render  the  bone  carious. 
When  the  head-a<;h  is  fo  intolerable  as  to  endanger 
e  patient's  life,  or  is  attended  with  continual  watching, 
lirium,  &c.  rccourfe  muft  be  had  to  opiates.    Thefe, 

after 


38  HEALTH. 

after  proper  evacuations  by  clyfters,  or  mild  j 
may  be  applied  both  externally  and  interna 
affeifted  part.ma^  be  rubbed  with  anodyne  bj 
cloth  dipped  in  it  may  be  applied  to  the  p 
patient  may  at  the  fame  time  take  twentj 
laudanum,  in  a  cup  of  valerian,  or  penny- 
twice  a-day.  This  is  only  to  be  done  in  c; 
treme  pain.  Proper  evacuations  ought  a!w; 
company  and  follow  the  ufc  of  opiates. 

When  the  patient  cannot  bear  the  lofs  of 
feet  ought  frequently  to  be  bathed  in  lukc-w; 
or  fome  preparation  fimilar  to'  the  aromatic 
well  rubbed  with  a  coarfe  cloth.  Cataplafms 
tard,  or  horfe-radifli,  ought  likewife  to  be 
them.  This  courfe  is  peculiarly  ncceiTary, 
pain  proceeds  from  a  gouty  humour,  aff 
head. 

When  the  hcad-ach  is  occafioned  by  j 
hard  labour,  or  violent  cxercifc  of  any  kind, 
allayed  by  cooling  medicines;  as  the  falini 
with  nitre,  and  the  like. 

A  litde  of  Ward's  eflence,  or  Hungary,  ( 
water,  dropt  into  the  palm  of  the  hand,  and 
the  forehead,  will  fometimes  remove  a  vio 
ach:  and  fu  will  aether,  wheh  applied  in 
manner. 


HEALTH. 

Of  all  the  bleflings  which  mankind  can  enj 
a  found  mini- in  a  healthful  body  is  the  moft 
and  without  which,  all  others  are  nugatoi 


E    A    L    T    H.  39 

tis  neceflary  to  the  prefervation  of 
)f  them  are  not  always  at  command  i 
1  efiential  is  always  in  our  power — a 
lET,  which  is  not  of  lefs  confequencc 
than  to  cure  dlfeafe ;  its  effe^  are  not 
quick  as  thofe  of  medicine,  but  they- 
're lafting.  On  the  other  hand,  it  is 
cable  to  the  patient,  nor  fo  hazardous 
I  always  more  eafily  obtained, 
ition  be  the  chief  rule  with  regard  to 
the  quality  of  food  merits  a  farther 
nimal,  as  well  as  vegetable  food,  may 
olefomc  by  being  kept  too  long.  All 
have  a'  natural  tendency  to  putrc&c- 
lat  has  proceeded  too  far,  they  notonly 
to  the  fenfes,  but  hurtful  to  health. 
I  feed  grofsly,  as  tame  ducks,  hogs, 
eafily  digeftcd,  nor  afford  fuch  whoie- 
:  as  others.  No  animal  can  be  whole- 
ot  take  fuflicient  exercife.  Molt  of 
u-e  crammed  with  grofs  food,  but  not 
lor  free  air  j  by  which  means  they  in- ' 
ut  their  humours  not  bang  properly 
ilated,  rem^  crude,  and  occafion  in-. 
;rofs  humours,  and  oppreffion  of  the 
ho  feed  upon  them, 
ften  rendered  unwholfome  by  being 
[ceflive  heat  caufes  a  fever,  exalts  the 
1  mixes  the  blood  fo  intimately  with 
t,  cannot  be  feparated.  No  perfon 
:  the  Hefh  of  an  animal  who  had  died  In 
hat  is  the  cafe  with  all  over  drove  cat- 
tle; 


40  HEALTH. 

tie;  and  the  fever  is  often  raifed  even  to 
madnefs. 

No  people  in  the  world  eat  fuch  quantii 
food  as  the  Englifh,  which  is  one  reafon 
fo  generally  tainted  with  the  fcurvy,  and 
train  of  confequences;  low  fpirits,  hypoi 
&C.  Animal  food  was  furely  defigned  f 
with  a  proper  mixture  of  vegetables,  it  will 
moft  wholefome;  but  to  gorge  beef,  mutt< 
and  fowl,  twice  or  thrice  a-day,  is  certain 
AH  who  value  health  ought  to  be  contentf 
one  meal  of  flefti  in  the  twenty-four  ho 
ought  to  confift  of  one  kind  only. 

Our  aliment  ought  neither  to  be  too 
dry;  moift  aliments  relax  the  folids,-an 
body  feeble.  Thus  we  fee  females,  who 
tea,  and  other  watery  diet  generally  becoi 
unable  to  digeft  folid  food.  Hence  proc 
and  all  their  dreadful  confequences  j  on  th 
food  that  is  too  dry,  renders  the  folids  in  a 
and  the  humours  vifcid,  which  difpofcs  th 
flammatory-fevcrs,  fcurvies,  and  the  like. 

Much  has  been  faid  on  the  ill  effefts  t 
they  are,  no  doubt,  numerous,  but  they  p 
from  the  imprudent  ufe  of  it,  than  from  a 
tics  in  the  tea  itfelf.  Tea  is  now  the  univ 
in  this  part  of  the  world;  but  the  momin] 
moft  improper  time  of  the  day  for  drink 
delicate  perfons,  who,  by  the  bye,  are  tl 
drinkers,  cannot  cat  any  thing  in  the  mori 
perfons,  after  fafting  ten  or  twelve  hours, 
five  cups  of  tea,  without  eating  almoft 


H    E    A 

uft  hurt  them.  Good  tea 
7,  not  too  (bong,  nor  toi 
npty  ftoinach>  will  leldbni 
iich  is  often  the  cafe,  or 
lid  food>  it  muft  have  man 
The  liquid  port  of  our  alii 
ntion.  Water  is  not  onl] 
It  alfo  compofes  a  g^ax  pai 
Uer  muft  therefore  be  of 
et.  The  bell  water  is  th 
X  from  any  mixture  of  fori 
The  com.mon  methods  ol 
tration,  or  loft  by  expofin^ 
e  Co  generally  known,  that 
ne  in  explaining  them.  \ 
fc  all  to  avoid  waters  wh 
inds,  or  the  like,  as  fuch  v 
'  the  corruption  of  animal 
iich  they  abound.  Even 
inking,  in  dry  feafons,  wai 
lall  refervoirs,  without  bei 
ilhencd  with  Ihowo?.  Al 
ran,  and  to  have  a  free  com 
As  fermented  liquors,  notu 
clwmed  againft  by  many  ' 
c  common  drink  of  alm< 
brd  them,  we  (hall  rather 
dke  choice  of  thefe  liquors 
mn  what  cuftom  has  ib  fi 
c  moderate  ufe  of  found  fei 
T«i.JI.  < 


9  H    E    A    L    T    H. 

mi^dfKt,-  it  k  exocii,  or  ufing  fucb  as  an 

If  vitiated. 

Atf  families  who  can,  ought  to  prepu 
tefMn.  Since  preparing  and  vending  c4 
lame  one  of  the  molt  general  branchc! 
Tcry  inethod'  has'been  tried  to  xlulterate 
jireat  objed,  both  to  the  makers  and  vend 
s  to  render  it  intoxicating.  But  it  h  wei 
his  may  be  done  by  othf  r  ingredients  thai 
nig^t  to  be  iiicd  for  rnaking  itftrong: 
mprudcnt  even  to  name  thofc  things  wh 
nade  ufe  of  to  render  liquors  heady.  Sul 
hat  the  prafticc  is  very  common,  and  that 
Jicnts  ufed  for  this  purpofe  arc  of  a  narco 
iiAive  nature.  But  as  alt  opiates  are  ol 
quality,  it  is  eafy  to  fee  what  muft  be  the 
/their  getieralufe.  Though  they  do  not 
nt  diey  hurt  the  nerves,  relax  and  weaken 
md  ^il  the  digdtioD. 
*  We  would  recommend  it  to  families,  no 
Mre  their  own  liqw»s,  but  likcwile  chnr  b 
i  fo  neccl&rya.percofdict,  thattoomucl 
}e  beftowed  in  order  to  have  it  found  an( 
or  diis  purpofe,  it  is  not  only  necellary  ttu 
jf^ood  grain,  buc  likewife  properly  prepa 
aee^rom  unwholfome  ingredients.  This, 
taJre  icalbn-  to  bdieve,  is  not  always  t 
>read  prepared  by  thoie  who  make  a  crai 
ii  ihdr  bbjeft  b '  rather  to  pleafe  the  ^e, 
heKeaUh.  .... 
,.P«ifiKi5  whofe  folids  are  weak  andrehu 
ivoid  alt  vifcid  food,  or  fuch  things  as  are 


H    E    A    L    T"  Hi  4s 

gdNcM.  Thdrdlet,  howevWjOughttobenourilWngi 
and  they  Ihould  take  plentjr  of  exercire  ih  ^he  open  sir. 
Stich  as  flbound'inth  blood,  fhouldbe  Ipating  in^e 
tde  of  evdy  diingthat  is  highly  nourishing,  as&t  meat, 
rich  wines,  ftrong  ale,  and  fuch  like.  Their  food 
IhoiHd  coriW  moHly  of  bread  and  other  vegetable  fub- 
**"rcai  and  their  drttrictrught  to  be  water,  whey,  or 
Ibeer.  -      ■■■  '  ■■■■ 

at  people  ffaio^  AOt'eiiC  freely  bf  oily,  nouriihing 
;  Aejr  oughtf  {reqiiehdy  co  ufe  radUh,  garlic,  fjHces, 
ich  thii^  as  mt  heating,  and  promote  perfpiratioii 
urine.  Thor  drink  ftookl  be  wiAer,coffi%,  tea  ot* 
tikej  and  diejroaght  to  taki  ihuch  exerdle  and 
^flecp. 

hole  who  zxt  too  tedi  nnift  follD>ff  an  oppofite 
fe. 

jch  as  are  troubled  with  acidities,  or  ^<^fooa  ia 
i^iv  to  four  on  the  Itomach,  Ihould  live  much  on  Bcfh 
tncats;  and  thcA  ■who  are  affliS'ed  vrith  hoc  alkaline 
eru£btions,  ought  to' ule  «  diet  confifting  clu^y  k£ 
Kid  vegetables. 

People  who  are  affefted  with  the  gout,  low  Ipirits, 
iypochondriac,  or  hyfleric  diforders,  ought  to  av<Hd  al 
3atulcnt  food,  every  thing  that  is  vifdd  ot  hard  of  di- 
veftbn,  all  falted  or  fonoke  dried  provifions,  and  what- 
nrer  is  ftuftcre,  acid,  or  apt  to  four  on  the  flomacju 
rhrir  ibod  ihould  be  light,  fpare,  cool,  and  of  an 
ipimng  nature. 

It  b  not  only  neceflkry  for  health  that  our  diet  be 

vhokfome,  but  aUb  that  it  be  taken  at  regular  periods, 

iome  imagine  long  Siting  will  atone  for  exce&i  but 

fais,  inftcad  of  mending  the  matter,  generally  makes  it 

C  a  worfe. 


t4  H    E    A    L    T 

rorie.  When  the  ftonuch  and, 4 
iftendod  with  foad>  they  lofe  their.  [ 
aog  &fdng>  chc7  become  weak*  uk 
Thus  either  gluttony  or  fafting  deftro 


The  &equ^t  npetidpn  of  alime 
eOary  for  repairii^  the  continual  v 
lut  likewife  to  keep  the  humoun 
)ur  humours*  even  in  the  moAb 
onftant  tendency  to  putrefaction*  ' 
Tcyentcd  by  .&!K]uent  fupplies  flf 
rhen  that  is.  wanting  too  kuig,  dv 
iroceeds  fb  far,  ai  to  occafion  ver 
^rom  hence  we  may  Icam  the  necefli 
>To  perfon  can  enjoy  a  goo<d  ftate  of 
^  are  either  fiequendy  overcharge 
ang  deprived  of.frcfh  fv^pli«  of  ch; 

l^ng  fafting  is  cxtrenicly  hi^rtfi^ 
lOt  only  vitiates  dieir  hum^i^*.,! 
^owth;  nor  is  it  leJs  inj^riou?  tp  the 
3ns*  in  the  decline  of  life*  arcaffli£be 
omplaint  is  not  only  increafed*  tnii 
;erous*  and  often, fatal*  by  long  faf 
rhen  their  flomachs  are  empty*  ar< 
^ith  giddinels*  head-achs*  and  &ir 
ildnt  may  generally  be  removed  b) 
.  glafs  of  wine*  or  taking  any  other 
>lainly  points  out  the  method  of  prev 

It  is  a  very  common  pradtice  to  < 
nd  a  heavy  fupper.  This  cuftom 
kI.  When  people  fup  late,  their  fu] 
g^i;^  but  the  breakfaft  ou^t  alwaya 


HEALTH.  4j 

eats  a  light  fupp^-,  goes  foon  to  bed,  and  rifes  be« 
4  in  the  morning,  he  wiU  be  liire  to  find  an  appetite 
lis  brcak£ift,  and  he  may  freely  indulge  it 
he  ftrong  and  healdiy  do  not  indeed  fuffw-  fo  much 

—  fafting,  as  the  weak  and  delicate  j  but  they  ran 
hazard  from  its  oppofite,  viz.  repletion.  'Many 

is,  cfpecially  Severs,  are  the  effeft  of  a  too  great 
^  of  the  vellUs.  Strong  people,  in  high  health, 
generally  a  great  quantity  of  blood  and  humours.' 
n  chde  are  fuddenly  Increaled  by  an  overchai^  of 
ind  nouridung  diet,  the  veflels  become  coo  moch 
ided,  and  oUbudions  and  inflammations  enlbe. 
X  ib  many  people  arc  feized  with  ihflammawry  and 
ivc  feven,  after  a'feaft  or  debauch. 
1  great  and  fudden  changes  in  diet  are  dangerous. 
t  the  ftomach  has  been  accufiomed  to  digcft;  al- 
^  Ids  wholefome,  will  agree  better  with  it  dian 
of  a  more  falutary  nature  which  it  has  not  been 
™  to.  When  therefore  a  change  becomes  neceflkry, 
oug^t  always  to  be  made  gradually  i  a  fudden  trarifi- 
m  from  a  poor  and  low,  to  a  rich  and  luxurious  diet, 

-  the  contrary,  might  fo  difturb  the  functions  of  the 
>dy  as  to  endanger  health,  or  even  to  occafion  death. 

In  recommending  regularity  of  diet,  we  would  not  be 
iderfiood  as  condemning  every  fmall  deviation  from  it. 

is  next  to  impoICble  for  people  at  all  times  to  avoid 
me  degree  of  excefs,  and  living  too  much  by  rule 
light  make  evoi  the  fn^allefl  deviation  dangeroiis.  It 
lay  therefore  be  prudent  to  vary  a  litde,  fometimcs  ta- 
ing  more,  fometimcs  lefs,  than  the  ufual  quantity  of 
leat  and  drink,  provided  always  that  regard  be  had  to 
lodcration. 

To 


45  H    E    A    L    T 

.  To  the  forgoing  dire&ions  ib 
health  b7  ittentioo  to  Duty  we  hav 
cellent  remarks  on  that  fubjeA  fr 
ktc  Dr.  FoTHiRCiLL  i  to  this  we 
)Dduced>  as  the  volume  &om  who 
not  likely  to  fall  incp  die  haods  off 
Nothing  is  of  ib  much  confeque 
the  more  delicate  (^both  kxca,  as 
in  diet.  There  are  maaj  people* 
fedof  Aich  powo^ofdigeftionastc 
on  diat  account,  and  who  nerer  fei 
moded  either  with  quantity  <x  the  i 
cure  of  thdr  food;  they  rife  from  th 
cd  and  rich  repafts,  without  any  ki 
line&.  But  dui  is  noc  the  cafe  witl: 
are  affisSxd  with  incomrenience^  & 
another,  by  the  unnatural  load. .  j 
hear  fuch  complaining  of  the  ill  i 
particular  kind  of  diet,  when,  peri 
^arife  from  the  ^»tity  ofall,  rather 
of  any.  - 

.  It  demands  attention  to  obfer^ 
and  no  lefs  refolution  to  keep  to  it 
invariably  p(nnu  out  in  refpe&  to 
imtcb  muft  be  dftermined  by  every  i 
who  are  happy  enough  to  abftain  a 
faciety,  have  made  great  progrefs  ii 
ing  fuch.a  command  of  appetite, 
nic  indifpofitions,  is  one  of  the  gre 
and  in  health,  is  one  of  the  fureft 
them. 


HEALTH.  47 

K  negkA  of  this  attention  to  die  quantity  t^  feod 
ipomoned  to  the  necelBty  of  each  individtal,  is  (boner 
later  ft^owed  with  the  n}oft  ferious  confequences. 
I  the  ftrong  and  robuft  inflammatory  dtfeafes  happen* 
>  the  more  tender  and  delicate  it  is  the  parent  of  a 
mcrous  progeny  of  difteoipos  affe£ting  both  body 
I  mind  i  there  is  fcarcety  a  malady,  which  either  doea 

'Tiginace  from  this  ne^eA  of  diet,  a*  is  not  increa- 
y  it.  ,  . 

le  culloms  of  coontries,  in  refpeift  to  meals,  are  dif- 

:.   Break&ft,  dinner,  and  fuppcr  hare  been,  in  thb 

ly,  habitual.     Slippers,  at  prefcnt,  are  difcouraged 

ig  the  affluent ;  and  exceflive  ones,  fuch  as  have 

:n  in  ufe  among  our  anceftors,  very  probably  wilJi 

xl  reaTon  ;  yet  there  arc  fome  conftitutions  to  which 

)  practice  may  not  be  beneficial ;  two  very  modcrata 

als,  at  a  luitabte  diftance,  -may  perhaps  be  digdted 

h  much  more  eale  than  one  fiill  meal,  and  be  made 

re  conGftent  with  the  duties  of  lilr  in  various  fitua- 

IS.  From  obfervation  I  am  led  to  iuppofe,  when  peo- 

allbre  vs  they  eat  no  fupper,  tbsu  ii  would  ItrbetKr 

them  if  they  ^id,  than  to  oppreJs  nature  with  a 
nbrous  load,  diat  may  be  much  more  detrimentaL 
rhe  general  break&A  of  pe<^e,  from  the  h^jhcft  to 

lowcft„  b  tea,  coffee,  or  chocolate. 
ro  thele  articles  bread  of  fome  kind,  with  inore  or 

butter  and  fugar^  are  commonly  joined  to  make  up 

meal  We  are  often  afked,  and  not  improperly, 
at  are  our  opinion  of  thefe  articUs  refpeilively,  in 
jcft  to  their  being  more  orIef»whokibme.  Perhaps 

mofl:  pcrdaent  anfwer  in  cohuihhi  would  be  that 

\dx  is  EcpOEted  of  the  b«e  Dr.  Mandeville,  of  &mous 

memory, 


4«  HEALTH. 

memory,  who  bdi%  often  the  convivia 
Earl  of  Macclcsfidd,  was  fixquently  intei 
lut^e£t  of  diet;  Doftorj  is  this  wholefon 
Lwdfliip  like  it  ?  Ves.  Does  it  agree  wi 
fliip  ?  Yes.    Why  then  it  is  wholefomc. 

Perhaps  this  is  the  beft  dirfdtion  that 
provided  we  can  caution  the  inquirer  agaii 

From  many  inconceftable  proofs  that  > 
derable  quantities  is  injurious,  it  is  lefs  uf 
milies.  It  is  founds  by  many,  to  be  very 
gellion>  efpecially  when  toafted  before  th< 
as  well  as  in  fauces.  Many  people,  app 
and  whofe  organs  of  digeflion  are  ftro. 
tfiemfclves  much  difordered  by  large  quan 
Nothing  more  fpeedily  and  effeftually  \ 
head-ach,  and  fometimcs  within  a  very  fei 
ter  break6tft,  if  much  toaft  and  butter  ha; 
begins  with  a  lingular  kind  of  glimmcrin 
ot^efts  fwiftly  changing  their  apparent  pol 
ded  with  numerous  angles,  lilu  thofe  of 
giddinefs  comes  on,  head-ach,  and  ficknel 
and  warm  water  foon  waih  off  the  ofiendir 
remove  thefc  diforders ;  thefe  are  circumfts 
happen  to  people  who  are  inattentive  to  t 
butter  they  eat  at  breakfaft,  and  which  are 
tempted  to  be  cured  by  very  diflferent  remi 
proper  ones.  A  fudden  giddinefs,  let  it  ai 
caufe  it  may,  and  it  arifes  oftener  from  foi 
the  ftomach  than  from  all  other  caufes  pi 
a  fufficient  motive  to  call  the  furgeon,  wh 
large  ihare  of  difintereltednefs  and  fldll,  n 
peUed  to  bleed  the  patient,  fomedmesuiidi 


HEALTH.  49 

C«s  that  do  not  admit  of  it  with  impunity.  A  moderate 
quantity  of  frelh  butter,  with  bread  expofcd  as  litde  to 
the  fire  as  poflUile,  or  not  at  all,  but  uled  cold,  appears 
to  me  to  be  wholefome ;  it  is  capable  of  becoming,  with 
tfle  other  alimuits,  as  foft,  and  inoffenlive  chyle,  perhaps 
as  any  part  of  diet. 

The  fame  thing  may,  perhaps,  be  fald  of  coffee  as  of 
the  ftrength,  and  the  quantity  make  it 
r  othernnfe.     There  are  nations  who  al- 
it,  as  others  do  on  tea ;  amongft  neither 
h  difeafes  that  canjuftly  be  Scribed  to 
s  in  the  common  courfe  of  living, 
lay  feem  to  require  more  confideration. 
know,  the  fruit  of  a  tree  growing  in  the 
round  into  a  pafte  with  other  ingredients, 
"epaft  to  multitudes  of  people  of  all  con- 
.  not  been  obferved,  I  believe,  that  thofe 
who  in  this  manner  make  chocolate  a  part  of  their  food, 
0  any  particular  diftempers.   It  may  be  con- 
refore,  as  a  wholefome  kind  of  breakfaft  to 
^e  it,  and  with  whom  it  agrees.    It  b  of  an 
cure,  therefote  little  or  no  butter  Oiould  be 
:.    Were  it  commonly  made  thinner  than 
il  practice,  and  a  larger  proportion  of  milk 
uld  feem  to  be  much  more  proper  for  com- 
mon ufc,  than  as  it  is  generally  lerved  up  at  prelent. 

To  all  thefe,  fugar  is  for  the  moft  part  aneceffary  ad- 
dition ;  and,  perhaps,  much  depends  on  the  quantity  of 
thb  addition,  whether  they  are  to  be  ftyled  wholefome 
or  otherwife.  Nothing  is  more  common  than  to  hear 
perfons  complaining  of  the  heart-burn  after  brcakfaft, 
afcribing  it  to  the  tea,  or  die  other  articles  they  have 
Vol.  II.  H  (wen 


56         *i  e  A  t  T  «. 

been  drinkiing.  The  liquors  thcmftlvcs 
br  very  little,  in  producing  this  cotr^ 
from  the  bread,  tTie-buttcr,  the  fugar,  i 
^4nd  is  a  proof  tliat  more  of  feme  of  thcfe 
together,  has  been  taken  than  the  ftom« 
and  this  circumftance  ought  to  be  a  fti 
againft  excels  in  quantity,  even  of  thii 
ttioft  inoffenfive. 

Cofltc,  perhaps,  is  an  exception  to  iff 

Ijove,  that  the  liquors  themfelvcs  hSvc  'li 

ih  producing  the  heart-bum.  Coffee  mat 

,  £uls  to  produce  it ;  and  it  would  be  righ 

•J  fugar  with  it  as  pofTible. 

The  efFefts  of  improper  conduft,  in  i 
things  which  now  conftitute  oar  brcakfai 
confeqoence,  compared  with  thofc  which 
^lll  ctfvered  table  at  noon.  The  indulge 
farts  fupply  but  very  few  materials  for  de 
repeated  exccflts  at  dinner,  are  ferious  ; 
been  tfiought,  that  more  people  fuffcr  bj 
than  immoderate  eatingj  my  oblervitic 
i/ lake  The  oppofite  fide.  At  prefent,  indi 
prafticc  is  generally  banlfhcd  to  the  vulg£ 
prevailed  to  the  utmoft,  it  feems  to  me 
injured  by  exccfs  of  diet,  than  of  drinking. 

Though  I  think  the  quantity  of  fc 
principally  to  be  regarded,  yet  the  qiialit 
ter  of  indifference. 

One  of  the  firfl:  aiticles  of  diet  I  Jhall  m( 
and  that  only  to  fay,  that  to  digefl  it  pro 
in  confidcrable  quantities,  very  ftrong  or| 
fite.    The  hufbandnian  and  labourer  find 


H    E    A    L    T    H. 

in  this  refpeft ;  but  to  many  others,  this  is  nc 
In  weak  ftonoachsj  a  large  proportion  of  brea 
geftible;,ittumslbur,  produces  the  heart-burr 
cies,  and  iuterrupis  the  pcrfeft  concoftion  of  c 
clfe.  This  is  not  owing  to  any  fuppofed  aduh 
common  ;  nor  do  I  believe  bread  is  adultQrat( 
a  degree,  as  many  imagine ;  but  to  its  ow 
which  requires  organs  of  a  certain  ftrengch  to 
it  properly  j  and  if  not  fo  aiTimilaced  it  happt 
many  other  cafes,  the  corruption  of  what  is  goi 
it  the  worft  of  all  others. 

On  this  principle  I  have  endeavoured  to  inci 
neceflity  of  paying  much  attention  to  this  capii 
of  diet  to  valetudinaiies  in  general ;  never  t 
from  it  wholly,  but  to  ufe  it  with  moderation  ; 
dcr  it  as  one  of  thofe  things  which,  fparjngly  i; 
rattremely  neceflary  and  beneficial;  if  othen 
fruitful  fource  of  many  complaints,  which  were 
pc^ed  to  arifc  from  this  caufc. 

In  this  country  animal  food  of  one  kind  or 
conftitutes  the  chief  part  of  our  nourilhment 
there  are  fome  kinds  of  more  eafy,  fome  of  hard 
tion  than  others,  is  well  known  to  every  body;  ; 
inclined  to  think,  there  is  fcarccly  any  part  ol 
diet  in  ufe,  chat  would  not  occasionally  be  made  i 
that  is,  to  be  digefted  without  much  difficult 
were  fiill  as  anxious  in  refpeift  to  excefs  of  qua 
the  unfuitablenefs  of  the  kind;  at  leaEl  this  opin 
refponds  with  my  own  obfervation  and  experien 
perfon  eats  as  much  of  ham,  lalted  beef,  or  baco 
ought  to  do  of  fiflj  or  of  chicken,  he  may  fuff 
'  f  he  article  f:£ puddings,  on  an  ^n^Ulh  tabl$> : 
Hi 


54  H    E    A    L    T    ft. 

fair  of  confcquence.  After  a  plentiful  din; 
food,  rich  fweet  puddings,  deferts,  or  ever 
very  unnatural  and  improper  addition  ;  ir 
if  the  puddings  are  baked  i  for  a  litde  bui 
pofed  to  the  heat  of  an  oven,  becomes  ofter 
of  much  fuffering. 

Of  vegetables  it  will  be  neccflary  to  I 
The  rule  in  general  b,  to  appeal  to  what  1 
this  refpeftj  with  each  particular  conftitu 
only  one  fhort  cauuoii  to  give  on  this  heac 
think  it  neccffary  to  pay  any  attention  to  i 
table,  Hiould  take  care  that  the  quantity  i 
of  meat,  and  of  puddings,  and  of  greens,  (h 
y  pofe  each  of  them  a  meal,  as  if  feme  were  < 
to  make  a  weight ;  but  carefully  to  obf< 

yfum  of  all  together  does  not  exceed  due  t 
croach  upon  the  firft  feelings  of  fatiety. 

In  refpeft  to  fruit,  I  apprehend  it  is  a 
praftice  to  eat  it,  as  is  generally  done,  a 
meal.  There  are  fomc  people  who  may  be 
not  to  feel  themfclves  incommoded  by  an] 
can  take ;  but  this  is  not  the  cafe  with  t 
to  whom  I  appeal  for  the  proof  of  this  aff 

Fruit  was  given  us  for  ufe,  as  well  ai 
contribute  to  our  health,  not  to  hurt  it. 
feems  of  all  others  the  moil  fuitable  feali 
taken  inftead  of  a  meal.  This  I  believe 
in  many  parts  of  the  world,  and  feems  n 
with  health  and  right  reafon.  This  and  a 
which  I  believe  prevails  in  France,  I  fhoi 
fee  introduced  into  England  more  gener 
fannilies  have  long  been  in  the  pra£Ucc  of 


t    E    A    L 

vcr  may  be  nee 

res,  during  the  i 

■ely. 

m  not  impropej 

the  different  ki 

ive  advanuges. 

uantity  of  femv 

le  better. 

irom  /pints  of 

IS  may  be. 

I,  well  brewed  I 

r  does  not  difa 
inue  it. 

CO  ivint,  cuftor 
lefs  the  excels  ii 
1th  and  long  life 
ivourite  with  m 
ins,  it  feems  n 
Like  what  has 
:  it  may  be  adde 
■  in  common,  i 
people,  efpecia 
folicitoijs  to  Ihv 
■ituous  liquors. 
>ther  repaft  whi 
ome  a  kind  ol 
1  in  every  famil 
t  may  not,  perl 
e  conliderations 
r  dinner.  If  « 
from  the  tim 


f4  H    E    A    L    T    I 

perfiMTTiing  during  the  courfe  of  feveral 

that  power,  which  we  call  nature,  is 

talk,  a  fecond  is  added,  which,  thoui 

quality,  adds  to  the  quantity,  and  as  it 

^ited  to  the  chyle  now  forming,  is  an  adt 

.  To  the  robuil  this  may  appear  tilfiing, 

but  to  thofc  who  may  be  fald  co  be  ba 

dinary,  it  is  a  matter  of  fomc  confcquen 

It  is  thought  by  many  that  tea  afTills  i 

additional  ftimulus  of  its  quality :  it  i 

ftonfiaCh  and  bowels  to  pais  ihc  djgcftir 

than   they  otherwife  would    have   dor 

than  the  chyle  is  properly  elaborated, — i 

afTift  in  carrying  off  flatulency  and  the 

This,  at  leaft,  is   my  opinion  of  it;  ai 

thin}:  the  perlbns  of  whom  I  have  been  fj 

to  drink  either  tea  orcoiFet  with  great  mgi 

to  make  it  fweet,  coffee  efpecially;  andt 

fcldom  as  poffible ;  for  cither  fweet  cake 

■  or  butter  in  any  proportion,  rather  retard 

promote  it.     The  only  proper  time  to  d 

or  coffee,  or  any  fuch  beverage,  witli  fal 

tage,  is  to  take  it  as  foon  after  dinner  as 

inftead  of  fitting  down  to  the  bottle. — T 

thofe  cuftoms,  which,  perhaps,  might  be 

■with  fewer  difadvantages  than  m^ny  of  tl 

fcccive  from  our  neighbours.     As  on  tb 

mancc  of  digcftion  depends  much   of  ou 

and  profpeft  of  longevity;  ib  wc  ought  n 

■  to  avoid  every  thing  that  has  a  probable  cl 

rupting  It. 

I  have    provifionally  recommended    fi 
obje^  of  thefe  ren  arliS;  as  thinking  thi 


j6  HERRINGS 

When  the  diforder  is  caufed  by  aciditit 
nuchj  the  following  Lozenges-  may  be  fre 
of,  as  the  moft  effeftual  for  the  purpofe,  i 
the  inconvenience  that  is  often  complaincc 
preparations,  namely,  binding  the  belly, 
chalk,  and  moft  preparations  of  oyfter  Ih^ 

T  ake  magnefia  alba,  fix  ounces  ■,  double 
three  otmces  j  nutmeg,  one  fcruple ;  mix  t 
and  fonn  them  iilto  lozenges  with  a  foh 
tragacanth. 

When  wind  is  the  caufe  of  the  compl 
cine  may  be  made  by  infufuig  an  ounce -of 
a  quarter  of  an  ounce  of  cardamon  feeds 
brandy;  digeft  this  for  two  or  three  days, 
and  add  four  ounces  of  white  fugar  cand 
ipoonful  may  be  taken  occafionally. — Or 
of  cinnamon  or  peppermint  water,  or  good 
be  ufed  when  the  diforder  arifes  &om  eatin; 
grcafy  food  of  any  kind. 

When  the  heart-burn  arifes  from  biliou; 
tea-fpoonful  of  the  fweet  fpirlts  of  nitre,  i 
water  or  a  cup  of  tea,  will  generally  give^ 

The  Peruvian  bark,  and  any  of  the  ft 
ters,  are  highly  ufefol. 


HERRING 

9oio(7  Herrings.  The  properefl:  tin 
herrings,  which  however  is  not  a  general 
ihey  come  before  and  at  die  beginning  of 


HERRINGS. 


57 


feafbn ;  thcjr  arc  by  many  people  reckoned  better  than 
when  full  of  roe;  the  flefh  is  much  poorer  than  at  this 
feaibn  when  their  breeding  time  is  over,  and  they  have 
had  time  to  recover  their  flefh. 

Clean  half  a  dozen  herrings,  and  throw  them  into  a 
pan  of  cold  water,  ftir  them  about,  and  change  the  wa* 
ter  once  i  let  on  a  ftewpan,  with  water  enough  to  cover 
them,  ibme  fait,  and  a  little  vinegar.  When  the  water 
boils,  put  in  the  herrings ;  when  they  are  enough,  lay 
them  on  a  fifh  plate,  in  a  warm  difh.  Sauce — -fennel 
boiled  and  chopped  fmall,  with  melted  butter. 

Another  way.  Scale,  gut,  and  wafh  your  herrings ; 
dry  them  clean,  and  rub  them  over  with  a  litde  vinegar 
and  fait  %  fkewer  them  with  their  tails  in  their  mouthy 
and  lay  them  on  your  fifh  plate.  When  your  water  boils 
put  them  in,  they  will  take  ten  or  twelve  minutes  boil* 
ing.  When  you  take  them  up,  drain  them  over  the 
water,  then  turn  the  heads  into  the  middle  of  your  difh. 
Lay  round  them  fcraped  horfe-radifh,  parfley  and  butter 
for  lauce. 

But  the  naofl:  general  way  of  drefting  herrings  is  to 
broil  or  fry  them  widi  melted  butter. 

To  fry  Herrings.  Scale  them,  gut  them,  cut  off 
th^ir  heads,  wafh  them  clean,  dry  them  in  a  cloth,  flour 
them,  and  fry  them  in  butter.  Have  ready  a  good  ma* 
ny  onions  peeled  and  cut  thin.  Fry  them  of  a  light 
brown  with  the  herrings.  Lay  the  henings  in  your  diih, 
and  the  onions  round  \  butter  and  muftard  in  a  cup. 
You  muft  do  them  ijwdi  a  quick  fire. 

Another  way.  Scale,  clean,  and  dry  them  well ;  dufl 
them  with  flour  \  and  when  your  dripping  or  butter  is 

VOL.  II,  \  boiling 


5>  HICCUP 

boiling  hDt>  put  in  your  Bfhi  a  few  at  a 
orcr  a  brilk  fve.  When  you  hav«  fri 
the  uih  QBc  tip  agtinft  another  in  the  mi 
then  67  a  large  handful  of  pa/fley  cri 
beffM^e  it  k^  ic3  cobur,  lay  it  rouad  th 
lauce  in  a  boitC ;  or,  ifyou  likeonioDs  t 
lay  £iine  round  yoot  diih  and  make  ooioi 

Hkrkimgs  with  Ahfiard  Sauce.  G\i 
hetrb^  very  clean.  Mete  ibme  butte 
parfley,  fliaUoCs,  green  omens,  pepper, 
the  herrings  in  this,  and  rc^  them  in 
then  broil  theoi,  and  ferve  them  with : 
melted  bucter>  flbiir,  broth,  vinegar,  ] 
When  ready  to  fare,  add  muftard  acc< 
meoc. 

to  baie  Harrinos.  Having  well  c 
rings,  take  a  little  black  and  Jamaic 
cloves,  and  a  good  deal  c^  lalCi  mil 
thea  nib  it  aU  over  die  filh,  lay  them 
cover  them  with  allegar,  tie  ftrong  pa 
and  bake  them  in  a  moderate  ov«i.  ] 
good,  diey  will  keep  two  or  three  mo, 
cat  tkem  «cb«-  hoc  or  cold. 


HICCUP 

A  gla&  of  gpod  wine,  or  a  fmall 
good  fpirits,  will  generally  remove  thii 
a  fingle  d^op  of  chymical  oil  of  cinnat 
a  kqob  of  fugar,  and  diiTcilya;!  leiHireJ 
b  very  efficacious.  In  ver^  feverc  cal 
bcnecelTaryi  or  the  ftomach  may  bt 


HOOPING,  OitCHIN  COUGH. 


Sf 


dotbs  dipped  la  wiann  vnter^  or  m  infufion  of  <c«nomilc 
Bowcxs* 


HOG's-HEAD.-^SccPouk 


HOOI'ING,  OR  CHIN  COUGH, 

One  of  the  moft  efieftual  remedies  in  die  chih  coirgli 
is  chinge  of  ^ir.  This  oftfcn  removes  die  malady,  even 
when  th^  change  feems  to  be  from  a  purer,  to  a  lefs 
wholelbme  air.  This  majr,  in  fome  meafure,  depend 
oa  the  padent's  being  removed  from  the  place  where  the 
infeftion  prevails^  Moft  of  the  difeafes  of  children  art 
infeftiovisi  nor  is  it  at  all  uncommon  to  find  the  chitl 
cough  prevailing  in  one  town  orvillage^  when  another^ 
at  tf  very-fmall  diftance,  is  quite  free  fh>m  it.  But 
iriiatevttf  be  thci  caufe,  we  are  fure  of  the  fa6t.  Nd 
time  ought,  thtrtfore,  to  be  loft  in  removing  the  pati* 
cue  €0  fome  diftance  from  the  place  where  he  caught  the 
diieafes  and,  if  poflible,  into  a  more  pure  and  wamt 
air. 

The  garlic  ointment  is  a  well  known  remedy  in  North 
Britain  for  the  chin  cough.  It  is  made  by  beating  in  a 
mortar^  garlic,  with  an  equal  quantity  of  hog*s  lard. 
With  Ais  the  foles  of  the  feet  may  be  rubbed  twice  or 
thrive  a-^dayj  but  the  beft  method  is  to  fpread  it  upon  a 
rag,  and  apply  it  in  the  form  of  a  plafter.  It  fhould  be 
renewed  every  ni^t  and  morning  at  leaft,  as  the  garlic 
foon  lofes  its  virtue. 

I  a  Woodr 


6o  HOOPING.  OR  CHIN 

Wood-licCi  or  miUipedeSj  infilled 
KC  alTo  much  rccommeoded: — T 
mUlipedes  dried  and  powderedj  win 
quarter  of  a  pint,  let  ic  ftand  about 
it  off  quite  bright,  and  give  two  tea 
four  tinnes  a-^y.  And  if  the  coi 
tremely  violent,  this  inftifion  may  b< 
tea  ijxx>nfijl  of  fyrup  of  poppies  in 
have  the  addition  of  five  drops  of  1 
young  child,  and  more  in  proportion 

Bathing  the  feet  in  warm  water 
dramatic  kat&i  as  aUb  blifters,  in  viol 
duced  much  good. 

The  food  of  new-bom  in&nts,  or  ii 
five  or  fix  months  old,  will  admit  o 
fipn.  When  the  hooping  coug^  atl 
weaned,  great  care  fhould  be  taken 
diet,  as  not  to  admit  the  ufeof  any 
creafe  the  load  of  phlegm :  butter,  i 
be  ^voided:  bran  tea,  or  weak  wh< 
acid,  and  fweetencd  with  honey,  n 
dfinki  or,  indeed,  tea  made  from 
herbs,  fuch  as  pennyroyal,  hyflbp, 
roots  of  the  common  mallow. 

Whenihe  difcafc  proves  violent,  ; 
danger  of  being  fuffbcated  by  the  c 
be  bled,  efpecially  if  there  be  a  feve 
pulfe.  But  as  the  chief  intention  of 
vent  an  inflanunatien  of  die  lung: 
more  fofe  to  give  vomits,  it  will  be 
r^eat  the  operation. 


H  O  us  E-KE  fiP  E  R. 


et 


The  beft  and  moft  eafy  way  to  excite  vomiting,  i&  co 
diflblye  one  grainof  emetic  tartar  in  two  ounces  of  wa* 
teo  and  give  a  tea  ipoonful  at  a  timci  at  the  diftahce  of 
half  an  hour,  till  it  procures  a  difcharge. 

The  body  ought  to  be  kept  gcndy  open.  The  bcft 
medicines  for  this  purpofe  are  rhubarb  and  its  prepara- 
tions, as  the  fyrup,  dn£hire,  &c.  Of  diefe  a  tea  fpooii- 
hl  or  two  may  be  given  to  an  infant  twice  or  thrice 
a-day,  as  diere  is  occafion;  to  fuch  as  are  Luther 
advanced,  the  dofe  muft  be  proportionally  increafed, 
and  repeated  till  it  has  the  defired  cffe6L  Thofe  who 
cannot  be  brought  to  take  the  bitter  tinfture,  may  have 
an  infuAon  of  fenna  and  prunes,  fweetened  with  manna, 
eoarie  fugar,  or  honey;  or  a  few  grains  of  rhubarb 
mixed  with  a  tea  fpoonful  or  two  of  fyrup,  or  currant 
jelly,  fo  as  to  difguife  the  tafte.  Mod  children  are 
fond  of  fyrups  and  jellifcs,  and  feldom  refufe  a  difegrcc- 
able  medicine  when  mixed  with  them. 
;  No  cxprefs  reliance  muft  be  placed  on  a  change  of 
air,  independent  of  attention  to  other  regulations. 


H  O  U  S  E  -  K  E  E  P  E  R. 


The  ftation  of  houfe^keeper  is  fo  frequently  joined 
with  other  employments  in  the*  family,  that  it  may  not 
be  ealy  to  point  out  the  duties  of  any  perfon  in  that 
line,  when  engaged  to  aft  alfo  in  other  capacities,  as  for 
inftance,  houfe-kecpcr  and  lady*s  nfiaid,  or  houfe-kecper 
and  cook,  &c.  but  we  will  endeavour  to  give  the  out- 
lines of  what  may  properly  be  expe£l:ed  from  a  perfon 
who  takes  the  whole  fuperiatendance  of  a  family,  and' 


in 


€Z 


HO  US  E-KE  EP  E  R. 


m  whom>  of  couric»  great  tnik  is  rq)oicd>  fhe  being 
refpooSbic  to  the  maAer,  miftrcTs,  or  licad  ftewan]^ 
according  to  the  orders  which  fhe  msLj  have  received. 

She  muft  be  well  acqtiainted  with  the  bu(ine&  of  a 
cook  and  confe&ioner,  before  flie  can  be  duly  qualified 
&>r  her  own ;  and  mtifl:  know  how  to  order  and  keep  a 
good  economy  throughout  the  whole  family. 

At  her  firft  entrance  upon  duty>  fhe  fhould  draw  up 
a  general  account  of  all  things  committed  to  her  charge 
by  her  employer,  who(e  orders  fhe  is  to  follow  in  every 
particular;  fhe  fhould  keep  a  good  underftanding  with 
the  cook  and  other  infin*ior  fervants^  by  fupplying  them 
regularly  with  all  neceflaries;  and  then  give  in  a  fuU 
account  of  all,  which  account  fhe  mufl  keep  ready  to 
produce  when  called  for. 

It  is  her  bufinefs  to  provide  good  ferVants  for  the 
kitchen,  and  to  change  them,  and  tradefmen  alfo,  when*- 
ever  they  are  found  unfit  for  their  bufinefs,  or  negligent 
in  it ;  without  particular  care  in  this  refpeftj  fhe  can 
never  do  juflice. 

She  mufl  take  care  to  lay  in  all  neceffiuies  in  due 
time,  and  give  every  fervant  what  he  may  want,  with 
this  provifo,  however, '  that  fhe  grant  nothmg  unreafbn- 
able.  She  is  to  bargain  with  all  tradefmen  whatever^ 
who  fupply  the  family  with  eatables. 

She  muft  be  a  judge  of  butcher's  meat,  and  make 
an  agreement  in  writing,  at  fo  much  a  pound,  whether 
beef,  mutton,  or  veal,  for  the  whole  year;  taking  care 
to  fee  all  weighed,  and  keep  a  memorandum  thereof. 

In  like  manner^  let  her  bargain  with  the  poulterer  to 
be  fervcd  yearly  or  quarterly,  at  fo  much  a  piece,  fi)r 
tame  as  well  as  for  wild  fowl;  fhe  muft  duly  inform  her* 

I  fclf 


HO  U  S  E-K  E  EP  E  R. 


«J 


" 


felf  of  the  market  prices  of  every  thing  in  its  proper  fca^ 
fon,  for  the  fake  of  her  employer's  intereft. 

She  muft  take  the  fame  method  with  the  cheefe^ 
monger,  in  order  to  be  better  fupplied  with  larding  ba•^ 
con,  with  hams,  &c.  hog's-lard,  faufages,  chitterlings^ 
neats  tongues,  and  whatever  is  requifite  for  fide  difhes. 

She  muft  be  a  good  judge  of  fi(h  of  all  kinds,  both  of 
iait  and  frelb  water,  and  of  all  forts  of  fiiiit  and  herbs; 
an  which  neceflarily  imply  a  previous  knowledge  of 
cookery  and  confeftionary. 

It  is  fikcwife  her  bufinefi  to  agree  with  the  grocer, 
chandler,  and  oilman,  for  fogar^  fpices^  candles,  links^ 
oil,  &c.  as  alfo  to  provide  felt,  pepper,  cloves,  nut- 
megs, &c.  Alfo  flour,  butter,  and  cheefo;  and  in  a 
word,  every  thing  wanting  in  the  kitchen  and  offices. 

All  the  kitchen  furniture  fell  likewife  under  her  care, 
which  fhe  muft  fee  mended  or  fupplied,  when  necelfery. 

A  houfe-keeper  muft  be  able  alfo  to  form  the  plan  of 
an  entertainment,  to  draw  up  a  bill  of  fare,  and  to  order 
the  courfes  for  every  diflfcrent  table;  (he  fhould  know 
what  is  moft  liked  of  all  forts  of  entries,  foups,  roalf 
dilhes,  and  fide  ones,  otherwife  it  will  be  impoffibic 
for  her  to  make  a  bill  of  fare  as  it  ought  to  be.  So 
diat,  here  again,  fome  ikill  in  the  cook  and  confec^ 
doner's  arts  is  requifite,  unlefs  fhe  will  be  always  aflc- 
ing  advice  of  them.  When  any  great  entertainment 
is  to  be  made,  it  is  her  bufinefs  to  take  her  precau- 
tions accordingly,  inquiring  of  the  butcher,  poul- 
terer, &c.  what  they  have  by  diem,  that  Ihe  may  pro^ 
vide  the  beft  of  every  thing. 

Whl^n  an  entertainment  is  to  be  made^  fhe  ought  td 
be  informed  of  the  number  of  guefts,  in  order  to  lay  but 

the 


<4  "H  O  U  S  E-K  E  E  P  E  R. 

tfie  table  in  a  proper  manner;  and  order  th< 
chat  no  two  of  the  fame  fort  may  be  near  on< 
ibr,  befides  that  this  has  an  ill  appearance,  it  r 
fine  feme  of  the  company  to  what  they  do  not 

She  ought  to  form  a  regular  plan  of  the  ' 
certainment>  and  make  a  drai^ht  of  each 
well  as  the  defcrti  ranging  every  one  in 
place,  oUcrving  well  the  fizes  t^  the  dilhes, 
they  are  to  contain;  and  if  the  family  lervani 
fiifiicient,  Ihe  will  call  in  afTifbmce  on  whoi 
depend^  that  every  thing  may  be  done  in  g 
and  nothing  loft  or  deftroyed. 

The  form  of  the  table  ought  likemfe  tp 
dered,  in  order  for  ranging  of  the  plates 
in  fuch  a  manner,  that  every  peribn  may  con: 
he  Tikes;  and  that  the  waiters  may  not  be 
difturb  the  company,  in  ferving  or  taking  awa 
cumftance  that  is  Ihocking,  and  yet  tlus  ha] 
too  often,  ^  want  of  taking  proper  care  befor 

As  an  ill-attended  or  iU-lenred  table  is 
caufe  of  cenfure  on  the  mafter  of  ;hf  fanpily, 
never  fail  to  have  the  tat^  covered  in  good 
fee  every  thing  in  readtnefi  and  well  arranged 
company  is  announced;  and  whoever  of  thi 
vaits  at  table,  will  inform  her  when  any  thing 
&ult  widi,  and  alfq  what  gave  fatisfaAioin,  tha 
avoid  futiire  errpre,  apd  continue  to  plCaf?, 

When  the  laft  courfe  }$  fcryed  up,  flie  muft  i 
range  the  defert  in  die  ^nanper  in  which  it  is  i 
Tcd ;  and  then  go  to  the  kit^hep  to  fee  wha 
jrom  table;  and  if  any  articles  will  ferve  anoi 
diey  ought  to  be  taken  care  of,  and  locked  u] 
{iven  to  the  fervants. 


SPECIMEN 


HOUSE-KEEPING     BOOK. 


Bjner     - 

:heefe     -       - 

rioahs     ■       ■ 

ndWood 

dHlllCT 


Sfice  »d  I 


Tci,  CoBir,  to. 


i       vo..n. 


[    66    1 


SPECIMEN  OF  TEE  LAST  PAGE  OF  THE  HOrSE-KEHnNO  BOOK* 
lOR,  A  CINEBAL  STATEMENT  IN  THE  YEAR. 


-i  r  ift  Wok,  7*.. 

^ 

'     MH 

.        .            1 

k. 

■■  ■  ■"■] 

Brought  up 

1 

r  »7th  w«k,  y^fy 

|-     3dW«k,       - 

^      »8th  Week       . 

t^  I  4tliW«k,     - 

'^IjO.hWcck     - 

i  f  5lh  WtdL,  Ftd. 

I       6ih  W«lt.        - 

,j,ft  WtA,  ^. 

4  ■    7ih  W«k    - 

tj     idWcd.      - 

i;  Lfkhw«k    - 

■^  1  M"h  W«k    . 

,9lh   Week,  Mar. 

t,SthW<dt      - 

^       lodiWak    - 

%.    iiriiWttk     - 

J   ri6thVf^,S.f,. 

^       ii[hW«k    • 

*  1  jTth  W«k     - 

C.i<hW«k      - 

n   j8th  W«k      - 
li  L  39i'i  W«k    - 

f  I4tl.W«rk,,^j(.,7 

.   ^4othW«k,0A. 

il    i6thW«k      - 
^  I,  I7lh  Wrtk    - 

1      4ift   Wttk     - 
;      4id    Week    • 

a   1.43d  WKk    - 

i-iSdiw«k,M.r 

J,       i,thW«k      - 

.   (-44tl>W«k,  Ww. 

5      loth  Wnk      - 

^      4«h  W«k       - 
1  i  46ih  W«k    . 

lilt  Week     - 

i       47ih  W«k      - 
^  l48lKW«k    - 

ftlJ   WMk,>« 

^      zjd  W«k 

J  i  S41J.  W«k      - 
'->     i5(hW«k     - 

^-  r4.,:hW«k,0,.-.    ! 

■lisothW^k     - 

n  s'ft  WMk,  - 

Li«ihw«)i     . 

q  I  iid  W«k      - 

£>fc. 

C-rioJo„^|                               ; 

Tohd  Eiptncn  of  ihe  «hole  Ym^.  X- 

- 

MARKETING    TABLES,  67 

Slewing  at  one  View'  the  Account  of  any  Commodity^  from  One  Pouni,  Ouncey 
Yardy  &c.  to  One  Hundred ;  and  from  One  Farthing  to  One  Shilling. 

I  No.  ot  I  Farth.  1  Farths.  3  Farths 
lbs.  &c    s.       d.     s.      d.     s.     d. 


1 

3 

4 

5 
6 

7 
8 

9 

lo 

II 

12 

»3 

H 

»5 
16 

17 
iS 

«9 

10 

21 

21 

as 

»4 

^5 
x6 

47 

C»8* 

29 

30 

31 

3» 

33 

34 

35 

36 

37 

38 

39 

40 

4T 

4» 

43 

44 

45 
46 

47 
48 
49 
50 
51 
5* 
53 
54 

C56f 
LS4t 

r  foo 
Ct"li 


o 
o 
o 

u 

o 

o 
o 
o 

o 
o 
o 
o 
o 
o 
o 
o 
o 
o 
o 
o 
o 
o 
o 
o 
o 
o 
o 
o 
o 
o 
o 
o 
o 
o 
o 
o 
o 
o 
o 
o 
o 
o 
o 
o 
o 
o 


I 
I 
I 

I; 

2 

»f 

It 

4 
4} 

5 

5} 
si 

si 
6 

'A 

7 

■I* 

H 

H 

9 

9j 

10 

.of 

'A 

II 

"J 

Il| 

o 
of 


I 
ll 

.1 

2 

9 

I 

4 


o 
o 
o 
o 
o 
o 
o 
o 
o 
o 
o 
o 
o 
o 
o 
6 
o 
o 
o 
o 
o 
o 


2 

3 

4 
4 


I 

'i 

2 

4 
4i 

7 

I* 

9 

9i 
to 

loj 

II 

«'i 

o 

ol 
1 

li 

2 

6 

?f 

8 
8l 

\i 

10 
loi 

IT 

..{ 

o 

of 

I 

it 

2 

^\ 

\k 

4 
6 

2 
% 


'> 

o 
o 
o 
o 
o 
o 
o 
o 
o 
o 
o 
o 
o 


2 
2 
2 
2 
2 
2 
2 
2 
2 
2 

3 
3 
3 
3 
3 
3 
3 
3 
3 

<; 

7 


^i 

3 

3 

'^\ 

Si 
6 

6 

7 
8 

9 
9} 

ji| 
o 

;l 

3 

3 

4 

5 
6 

6 

7 
8 

9 
91: 

lO:; 

W\ 
O 

»•; 
21: 

3, 

V- 

4; 

6 

;j 

?i 
.0* 

"J 

o 

of 
IV 

2t: 

\ 

4: 

6 

3 

3 

o 


I  Fenny 
s.   d. 


X  Penny  \ 
\.     d. 


I  Fcnnyf 
s.  d. 


o 
o 
o 

o 
o 
o 
I 
I 
I 

X 

I 
I 

1 

X 

2 
2 
% 

2 
2 
2 
2 

a 

3 
3 
3 

3 

3 

3 

3 

3 

4 

4 

4 

4 

4 

4 

4 

4 

5 

S 

5 

5 

5 

5 

5 

5 
6 

6 

6 

6 

6 

6 

6 

6 

7 

lo 
I2 


3 

4i 
6 

7i 

9 
10} 

o 

9 
10} 

o 

»1 

3 

J* 

7§ 

9 

loi 

o 

'§ 

3 

4i 

6 

7iJ 
9 
104 

o 

li 

3 

4i 
6 

7i 

9 

loj 

o 

>u 

3 

4i 
6 

7f 
9 

o 

«4 

3 

74 
9 

'Of 
O 

6 

6 

o 


"  ■  Quarter  of  the  Great  Hundred. 
\  Half  of  the  Great  Hundred. 


J  Thres  Quarters  of  the  Great  Htaodrf^ 
II  The  Great  HundrW  Weight. 


^8  M.ARKETING    TABJLES* 

From  one  PENNY  THREE TARTHINGS  to  THREE  PENCE  p«  lb. 


No.  of 

1  i*«my  J 

2  P<nc<.     2 

Peiicc  J      2  ] 

Peace  ^ 

2  Peuce  ^ 

3    Pence. 

lbs.  &c. 

$.     d. 

s. 

d !  1. 

s.     d. 

I. 

s.  N  d. 

1.     s.     d. 

L      9.   d. 

2 

0     3l 
0     5^ 

Q 

4 

0 

0    41 
0     6| 

0 

0     5 

0     0     5^ 

006 

.3 

0 

6 

0 

c 

0     7j 

008} 

009 

4 

0'    7 

0 

8 

0 

0     9 

0 

0  10 

0     0  ji 

010 

5 

0    8i 

0 

10 

0 

0  ii{ 

0 

I     o-i 

0     I      \\ 

0     1     3 

6 

0  loi 

Z 

0 

0 

I      ll. 

0 

I     3 

0    J     4* 
0     1     7} 

016 

7 

I     o| 

I 

2 

0 

»     3I 

0 

i     5i 

0     1     9 

8 

I       2 

I 

4 

0 

I     6 

0 

I     8 

0    J   10  ' 

0   ;2    0 

9 

>    3J 

I 

6 

Q 

I    8f 

0 

1    lO^ 

0      2       Qj; 

023 

ao^ 

I 

8 

0 

2    o| 

0 

2     I 

013! 

026 

ir 

I 

10 

0 

0 

^    3f 

0     2     6{ 

029 

12 

I  9 

2 

0 

0 

1     3 

0 

2     6 

0     2  ""9 

030 

13 

I    10: 

2 

2 

0 

1     5} 

0 

2     8i 

O      2    llj* 

'o    '3     3 

14 

a    0, 

I     l:r 

'     2 

4 

0 

2     7i 
1     9J; 

0 

2  II 

03       2: 

0      3      5' 

036 

»5 

2 

6 

0 

0 

3    li 

0    .3     9 

i6 

»    4 

2 

8 

0 

3     0 

0 

3  4, 

038 

040 

17 

*   Ji 

2 

10 

0 

3     2i 

0 

3     6i 

0     3  loj 

043 

i8 

»     9t 

3 

0 

0 

3     4| 
-3     6l 

0 

3     9, 

0      4       li- 

0.  4>  6 

19 

3 

2 

0 

0 

3   111 

0      4      4I 

049 

20 

»  II 

3 

4 

0 

3     9 

0 

4     1 

047 

050 

21 

?    o| 

3 

6 

0 

3   11} 

0 

4    4l 

0     4     9j 

0     5     3 

22 

3     i 
3    4- 

3 

8 

0 

4     i| 

0 

^    7^ 

0     c     o^ 

056 

>3 

3 

10 

0 

4     3I 

0 

4    9i 

0    5     3i 

0    .5    9 

14 

3     « 

4 

0 

0 

4    6 

0 

5    0 

056 

060 

15 

3     7l 

4 

2 

0 

4    ^ 

0 

5     ij 

0     5     %\ 

063 

26 

J    9i 

4 

4 

0 

4  loj 

5  0} 

0 

5     5 

0    5  III 

066 

27 

3   "} 

4 

6 

0 

0 

5     7{ 

0      6      2J^ 

069 

28 

4     ' 

4 

8 

0 

5     3 

0 

5  ^^- 

065 

070 

*? 

4    »J 

4 

10 

0 

5     5i 

0 

6     cl 

067} 

^073 

3° 

:n- 

5 

0 

0 

5     7* 

0 

6     3 

0     6  loi 
071} 

076 

3' 

5 

2 

0 

5     9{ 

0 

6  a 

079 

3* 

4 « 

5 

4 

0 

6     0 

0 

6     8 

074 

080 

33 

4    9i 

^ 

6 

0 

6      2j 

0 

6  icj 

0    7    H 

083 

34 

4  "-5 

5 

8 

0 

6     4i 

0 

7     I 

0     7     9j 
0    8     o| 

086 

35 

5'«l 

5 

10 

0 

6     6} 

0 

7     3i 

089 

36 

5    3 

6 

0 

0 

6       Q 

0 

7     6 

083 

090 

77 

S    4i 

6 

2 

0 

6  iij 

0 

7     8{ 

0     8     5l 

093 

38 

39 

lEI 

6 

4 

0 

7  a 

0 

.7  J» 

0     8     81 

096 

6 

6 

0 

7     3{ 

0 

8     li 

0    8  iij 

099 

40 

c  10 

6 

S 

0 

7     6 

6 

8    4* 

092 

0  la    0 

• 

41 

5  "i 

6 

IC 

0 

7     8{ 

0 

8     6} 

094} 

0  10     3 

4^ 

6     1^ 

7 

0 

0 

7  xoj 

8  c] 

0 

8     9 

0    9     71 

0  10     6 

4? 

^    3l 

7 

2 

0 

0 

8  ii| 

0    9  10} 

0  10     9 

44 

6      c; 

7 

4 

0 

8     3 

0 

9     1 

0   lo     I 

0   11     0 

4S 

6      6} 

7 

6 

0 

8     5i 

0 

9     4? 

0  10     3i 

0  II     3 

46 

6     S4 

7 

8 

0 

8     7f 
8     9I 

0 

9     7 

0  10     6J 
0  lo     9I 

0  It     6 

47 

6   ic| 

7 

lO 

0 

0 

9     9l 

0  II     9 

4^ 

7     <^ 

8 

f 

0 

9     0 

0 

lo     0 

Olio 

0  II     0 

49 

7     li 

S 

2 

0 

9     2{ 

0 

10       2\ 

0    II       2^ 

0  12     3 

5° 

7     3^ 
7     5; 

8 

4 

0 

9     4| 

9    <>i 

0 

lo     t, 

0    II       51 

0  11     8| 

0  12     6 

•  5* 

8 

6 

c- 

0 

10    :^ 

0  12     9 

5^ 

7     7 

8 

8 

c 

t*     9 

0 

10  10 

0  ii   11 

0  13     0 

53 

7    «i 

8 

ic 

0 

9  i»f 

0 

11     c\ 

0  12     ij 

0  13     ^ 

54 

7    10.^ 

9 

0 

0 

10     1* 

10    sl 

0 

'^    3' 

0  12     4^^ 

0  13     6 

$5 

8     c; 

9 

2 

0 

0 

''       c^i 

0  12     7J 

0  13     9 

'{6 

8     2 

9 

4 

© 

ro  .  0 

0 

II     8 

0  12  lo 

0  14     0 

1^4 

M     3 

14 

9 

C     1 

">     9 

0 

17     6 

0  19     3        I      1     0 

f  itc 

M    : 

!«> 

8 

0  J 

i3     9 

I 

0  to 

I       2    IT           150 

1   r,,j 

15     4 

18 

8     J 

I     0 

r 

34       I     5     8     1  I     8     0  J 

1 


MA«.«ETING    TABLES,  69 

From  THREEPENCE  pARTiUNG  to  FOUR  PENCE  HALFPENNY jier  lb. 


Ko.  of 

3  Ponce  i 

3P«iKe-^ 

3" 

Pei\ee4 

4-5 

Pence   1 

^  Peace  ^ 

4P«ncc  \ 

ibs.  Sec. 

I. 

».  a. 

1.      s.     d. 

1. 

5.     d. 

1. 

s. 

d. 

\,     ».      d. 

1.     s.  .  d. 

2 

0 

0        6    ; 

007 

0 

0     7| 
0  iij 

0 

0 

8 

0     0     8f 

009 

3 

0 

0      9;; 

0     0  loj- 

0 

0 

I 

0 

0     I     6J 

0     I     i{ 

4 

0 

I       I 

012 

0 

I     3 

0 

I 

4 

0     I     5 

0     I     6< 

5 

0 

'    4i 

0     I     5i 

0 

I     61 

P 

I 

8 

0     I     9f 
oar} 

0     1    lof 

6 

0 

1    7i 

019 

0 

I   iq\ 

0 

2 

c 

0*3 

7 

0 

I    lOj 

0     2     c| 

0 

2     2} 

0 

2 

4 

0    2     5} 

027} 

8 

0 

'2     1 

024 

0 

2     6 

0 

2 

8 

0    2  10 

030 

9 

0 

AS   f 

0     2     7i 

0 

2  9} 

3  5^ 

0 

3 

0 

0     3     *l 
0     3     61 

0     3     4i 

»o 

0 

2    u 

0      2    11* 

0 

0 

3 

4 

039 

II 

0 

a  ii| 

0      3       2} 

0 

0 

3 

8 

0     3  io| 

041! 

12 

0 

3     ^r 

036 

0 

3       9 

0 

4 

0 

043 

046 

^3 

0 

3     6} 

0     3     9I 

'0 

4    o| 
4    4| 

0 

4 

4 

0    4    7l 

0    4  ,oJ 

H 

0 

3     9f 

0    4     I 

0 

0 

4 

8 

0    4  I  If 

0     5     3, 

»5 

0 

4    o| 

044} 

0 

4    «J 

0 

5 

0 

0     !     3i 

0     5     7| 

16 

0 

4    4 

048 

0 

?    0 

0 

5 

4 

058 

060 

17 

0 

4    7f 

0    4  ii4 

0 

5     3t 

0 

5 

8 

0   -6    o| 
0    6    4I 

0    6    4 

1% 

0 

4  10* 

053 

0 

5     7I 

0 

6 

0 

069 

»9 

0 

5     i| 

0     5     6i 

0 

5'«J 

0 

6 

4068} 

0,   7     ij 

20 

0 

5    5 

0     5   10 

0 

6     3 

0 

6 

8071 

,076 

21 

0 

5    8J 

5  "i- 

0    6     rl 

0 

6     6J 

0 

7 

0 

0     7     5$     0.  7  loJI 

22 

0 

06^       0 

6  10^ 

7  2t 

0 

7 

4 

079? 

083 

^3 

0 

6    2I 

0  6  n 

0 

0 

7 

8 

0    8     ij 

0     S     7f 

24 

0 

6     6 

070 

0 

7     6 

0 

8 

0 

086 

090; 

25 

0 

6  9| 

7  of 

^     7     3t 

0 

7     9? 

0 

8 

4 

0    8  loj 

094! 

26 

0 

077 

0 

8     1* 

0 

8 

8 

0    9     2I 
0    9.    6| 

099, 

27 

0 

7     3I 

0     7   icj 

■^0 

8    5i 

0 

9 

0 

0  lo     j| 

[28 

0 

7     7 

082 

0 

8     9 

0 

9 

4 

0    9  ir 

0  10     6 

29 

0 

7  'oj 

0    8     5i 

0 

9     o| 

0 

9 

8 

0  lo    35 

0  lo  lof 

30 

0 

8-   '1 

089 

0 

9     4j 

0  1 

fo 

0 

0  lo     7{ 

0  II    3 

3» 

0 

8    4i 

0     9     rl 

0 

9     8i 

0  1 

fo 

4 

0    lo   IlJ 

0  II     7{ 

32 

0 

8     8 

094 

0 

lo     c 

0  1 

0 

8 

0  ii     4 

0  12     0 

33 

0 

8  11} 

0     9     7i 

0 

lo     3I 

0  1 

0 

0  ii     %\ 

0    12      4J 

34 

0 

9     *4 

0     9   II 

0 

lo     75 

0  1 

4 

0  I2     o| 

0    12       9" 

35 

0 

9    si 

0    lO      2v 

0 

lo  11} 

0  1 

8 

0    12      4} 

0    13       l{ 

«      36 

0 

9     9_ 

0  lo     6 

0 

''  h 

0  1 

0 

0    I2       9 

0  13     6 

37 

0  ^ 

fo    ol 

0  10    9-I 

0 

II     6  J 

0  1 

4 

0    M       li 

0  13   I0§ 

38 

0  ^ 

'0     3t 

0  If     I 

0 

ii   icj 

0  1 

8 

0  '3     5V 
0  13    9i 

0  14     3" 

39 

0  1 

10     6i 

0  II     4$, 

0 

12     2} 

0  1 

0 

0  14     7{ 

40 

0  ^ 

to  lo 

0  11     8 

0 

12     6 

0  1 

4 

0  14    2 

0  15     0 

41 

0  1 

n  li 

0  II   iij 

0 

I2     9' 

0  1 

8 

0  14    Gl 
0  14  10^ 

0  T5    4{ 

42 

0  J 

[I     4i 

0  12     3 

0 

I3     i^ 

0  ] 

0 

0    T<      9 

1 

43 

0  1 

ti     7j 

0  12     6J 

0 

'3     5^ 

0  1 

4 

0  '5     2j 

0  16     ij 

44 

0  1 

f!     If 

0   12   10 

0 

'3     9, 

0  1 

8 

0  15     7 

0  16     6 

4S 

0   1 

12       2i 

OJ3     »f 

0 

U    ^i 

0  ] 

0 

0  IS  iij 

0  16  ji 

0  16  io{ 

46 

0  ] 

'2  5i 

°  '3     5 

0 

14    ^4 

0  1 

4 

0  17     "3     \ 

47 

0  J 

r2     H 

0  13     8J 

0 

14    8i 

0  " 

8 

0   16     7J 

0  17     7i  ' 

dfl 

0  1 

'3     0 

0  14    0 

0 

k;     c 

0 

0 

0  17    0 

0  18     0 

40 

0  ] 

^3     ?} 

0  14    3i- 

0 

'5     5j 

0 

16 

4. 

0  17     A^ 

c  18     4^ 

50 

0  1 

li     Gl 

0   14     7 

0 

'5     :^ 

0 

r6 

8 

0  17     81 

0  18     o" 

5» 

0 

'3     9I 

0  14  I')! 

0 

1;   ir} 

0 

0 

0  18     cj 

0  19     ,f 

52 

0  ] 

[4     1 

0   l^     2 

0 

16     3 

0 

n 

4 

0  18     5 

0   19     6 

53 

0  5 

14    4^ 

0  15    si 

0 

16    ri 

0 

\i 

S 

0  18     9?" 

0   TO   ic{ 

54 

"  0  I 

'4     7^, 

0  M     9 

• 

0 

TO     ici 

0 

18 

c 

0    TQ        ll 

\     0     ^ 

55 

0  1 

[4  loj 

0  16     o|     "0 

^r  ^^' 

0 

r8 

4 

0  19      rj 

I     0     74 

[«;6 
,[84 

0  1 

15     2 

0  16    4        0 

17     6 

'  0 

\9. 

8 

0   iq   10 

I       T       0 

1 

2     9 

146        r 

6     3 

I 

8 

0 

I     9     9 

I   ir     6 

[100 

I 

7     I 

192         T 

11     3 

T 

4 

I    15      c 

117,6 

lU2 

I   1 

ro    4 

1    12     8        I 

I?     0 

] 

r  ** 

4  1    I    19      8    1    2      2     0    J 

I 


MARK 

«  FOUR  PENCE 


ETING    TABLES, 

THBEE  FARTHINGS  To  SIX  PENCE  pt 


jTa* 

f.  T". 

IT  I 

f.T.* 

5  P«.i«  ( 

1.    J.  'd. 

~ 

l\'\ 

0    0  10 

::1 

0  0 II 

:;■;! 

0     I     0 

0    1    .3 

° ; ,? 

a     I     t 

6      I      8 

t    \  ni 

0  t  * 

0 ;  '°i 

HI 

0    1     6 

019 

0     3     0 

o    »    9J 

0  J ,} 

■>     3     < 

0     J    4 

0    3    8 

040 

Hi 

0    3    9 

0    ]  n 

'    4    ■) 

"43 
049 

0   i   i 

»     4     6 

0    4    I 

044 

047 

0    s    0 

0     4     7 

049 

0    5    oi 

0.6 

049 

p    S    0 

°    S     3 

0    s     6 

059 

0   S   t. 

:i,il 

0     S     5 

066 

0  ;,ii 

»  I  h 

0    S     6 

0     s  10 

•    6     J 

0     6    81 

070 

0    6     , 

0    6,=} 

0  7  n 

064 

0     6     g 

0     7    8 

08b 

nil 

a     7     I 

0    7    s 

°    I    Jl 

HI 

0    8    ( 

0     7     6 

Cf    J     3 

:lli 

090 
0    9    £ 

0     S     4 

089 

091 

ni 

0    8    9 
091 
097 

ui 

I "  I* 

0   to     6 

0  Ii    f 

096 

on* 

■:  i't 

0  10    5 

i:°"^ 

I  ii  J* 

0  1      6 

0  II    s 

0  ir     3 

I" " 

Hi !? 

0  11     8 

0  11   5 

0  tr   10 
0  II     1 

0  I]    6 

0  "1  '°i 

.  I  ili 

0  I       6 

0  I]     S 

0  ij  9 

•  .4  4} 

0  'i  n 

0,4 ,1 

.  .4  ..( 

0  II     g 

0  ij    4 

0  14    8 

0 15  4 

0  13    9 

0  IJ    .j 

in 

0  13     5 

0  14    1 
0  14    7 

IH 

:;m 

0  I      6 

0  14     3 

0  15    0 

0  16    6 

0 17 1 

0  IS      5 

0 16  ii 

0   16   .Ij 

0  17    8 
0  iS    S 

0  IS  '0 

Q    I'.       ,t 

"    '^      ^r 

0  i«     t 

017     Oj 

0  .7  ..f 

0  16    s 

0  17     6 

0  ig    4 

^   ,6     li 

0  17  n* 

0  i«    5i 

0  ,9     7 

:;;:| 

0  17     6 
0  17  II 

::p! 

y.ik 

J  ;  6 

0  17     s 

0  18    4 

m 

0  >g     9 

0   ^9     g 

1 0  -j 

I     I     & 

I     1     S 

0  19    t 

I     3    <> 

0  19     7 

r     0    6 

I     I     4| 

I     3    6 

:;!;! 

I     0     5 

'     I     i 

•     •    !i 

'     3     5 

I     4     6 

s° 

I      0  lo 

I     I    10 

I      1     0 

1 .  ■( 

'  '  ^ 

1     1     3 

'     J    4i 

I    4     5 

I    5   i 

5^ 

I      I      X 

I      z      9 

I     3  10 

I    e    n 

Si 

>    4     Ii 

'     5    4 

I    6    & 

.14 

;;;] 

1      1     6 

'      ?     4 

'     3    7 
I     4     6 

in* 

1     <  ic* 

I  7  0 
1  7  < 
1    S    0 

114 

'   '3     3 

I    >6     9 

I    ig     6 

103 

1   19     7 

I     .     S 

»      J     9 

S       5    J3 

I      S     8 

1    It     4 

1  '1     8 

t  .6    r 

v^ 


MARKETING 

TABLES, 

n 

From  six  pence  halfpenny   to   NINE  PENCE  per  lb.   . 

No.  of 

6  Fence  ^ 

7  Fence. 

7  Pence  ^ 

8  Fence. 

8  Fence  4 

9  Fence. 

lbs.  &c 

L     t.     d. 

1.     s.     d. 

1.     s.     d. 

L     s.    d. 

1.     u    d. 

1.     s.     d. 

2 

oil 

Q     I     2 

0     I     3 

0      X     4 

0     X     5 

016 

3 

0     I     7} 

0x9 

0      I    io{ 

020 

0   2   i4 

*    »     3 

4 

022 

024 

026 

028 

0     2  xo 

030 

5 

028} 

0      2   IX 

0     3      xj 

0     3    4 

0    3     64 

039 

6 

033, 

036 

039 

040 

043 

046 

7 

0    3     94 

0      4     I 

0    4    44 

048 

0    4  1x4 

060 

8 

044 

0    4    8 

050 

054 

058 

9 

0    4  x&l 

0    5     3 

0    5    74 

060 

064! 

069 

io 

055, 

0     5  xo 

063 

068 

0     7     X 

076 

II 

0    5  ,1} 

065 

0     6  xof 

074 

0    7    94 

083 

iz 

066 

070 

076 

080 

086 

090 

M 

0    7     o| 

077 

0    8     1} 

088 

0    9     24 

0    9     q 

'4 

077 

082 

089 

094 

0.    9    XI 

0  10     6 

>5 

0    8     1} 

0    8     9 

0    9    44 

0  10    0 

0  10     7f 

0  II     3 

i6 

.>7 

088 

094 

0  10    0 

0  xo    8 

0    XI      4 

0  12     0 

0      9      2j 

0      9    IX 

0  10    7J 

0   XI     4 

0    12       ot 

0  12     ^ 

i8 

099 

0  Io    6 

0  II     3 

0  11     0 

0    12       9 

0  13     6 

«9 

0  10     3| 

0   II       X 

0    II    lOj 

0  12    8 

0  13     5* 

0  14     J 

20 

0  xo  10 

0  XX     8 

0  12     6 

0  13    4 

0  14    1 

0   15     0 

21 

0  "     4i 

0    12      3 

0  13     1} 

0  14    0 

0  14  lof 

0  15     9 

22 

0    IX    II 

0    12    10 

0  13     9 

0  14    8 

0  15     7, 

0  16     6 

a3 

0    12       si 

0  «3     5 

0  14    4I 

0  15    4 

0  16     3f 

0  17     3 

»4 

0    13      0 

0   14    0 

0  15    0 

0  16     0 

«  17    0 

0  18    0 

*5 

0  13     6} 

0  14    7 

0  ,5     74 

0  16    8 

0  17    84 

0  ig    9 

26 

0  X4     X 

0  15     2 

.0  16     3 

0  17    4 

0  18     5 

0  19     6 

27 

0  14    7f 

0  15    9 

0  16  loj 

0  18    0 

0  19     it 

I     0     3 

[28 

0  x5    2 

0   16    4 

0  17     6 

018    8 

0   19   Io 

I     I     0 

29 

0  ,5    8i 

0    16    IX 

0  18     xj 

0  19    4 

I     0     64 

I     I     9 

30 

0  16    3 

0  17     6 

0  18     9 

loo 

'     ^     3, 

I     2     6 

3« 

0  x6    9} 

0  18     I 

0  19    4j 

I     0    8 

t    I  iii 

«     3     3 

3» 

0  17    4 

0  18    8 

I     0    0 

'     1     4 

I    2    8 

t     4    0 

33 

•0  17  io| 

0  19     3 

I     0     74 

120 

I     3    44 

»     4    9 

34 

0  18     5 

0   19  10 

'            *           ^T 

I     2    8 

«     4    « 

I     «;    6 

35 

0  18  iij 

I     0     5 

I      I    lof 

^     3    4 

'    4    94 

163 

36 

0  19     6 

I     I     0 

I      2      6 

I    4    0 

»     5     6 

I     7    0 

37 

100} 

I     I     7 

'     3     i4 

I     4    8 

I     6     2^ 

I     7     9 

38 

I     •     7 

12       2 

^     3     9 

'     5    4 

I     6  II 

I     8    6 

33 

'     '     J* 

I      2     9 

«     4    44 

t     6    0 

X     7     74 

»     9     3 

40 

I     x     8 

«     3    4 

I     5     0 

I     6    8 

1.8    4, 

I  ro    0 

41 

I     2     2} 

I     3  If 

'     5     74 

I     7    4 

I     9     of 

I  10    9 

4» 

I     2    9 

f     4    6 

I     6       3 

I    8    0 

"     9    9- 

I  II    ^ 

43 

'     3     3i 

'     5     I 

f     6  io| 

I    8    8 

I  10    54 

I  12    t 

44 

I     3  10 

I     5    8 

i     7     6 

»     9    4 

I   II     2 

I  13     0 

45 

I    4    4* 

X     6     3 

I     8     14 

I  lo     0 

I   II  io4 

1   13     9 

46 

I     4   IX 

I     6  10 

I     8    9 

I  10    8 

I    12      7 

I   14    6 

47 

»     5     5i 

I     7     5 

1     9    44 

I  II    4 

'  »3     3* 

'  '5     3 

~  4S 

X     6     0 

I     8    0 

I   lo    0 

I  12    0 

I  14    0 

I  16    0 

49 

I     6     6| 

I     8    7 

I  10     74 

I  12    8 

I  14    84 

I  16    9 

50 

I     7     I 

t     9     2 

I   II     3 

'  «3    4 

;  \l  u 

I  17    6 

51 

f     7     7} 

X     9    9 

I   II  104 

I   14    0 

I  18     3 

5» 

1     8     2 

X  to    4 

I  iz     6 

I  14    8 

t  16   10 

i'  19    0 

53 

I     8    8i 

X    Io    II 

I   13     14 

I  15    4 

T   17     64 

1  19    a 

54 

«     9     3 

I   II     6 

I   13     9 

f   16    0 

I   18     3 

t    0    6 

<< 

I     9     94 

X    12      I 

I  H    44 

I  16    8 

I   18  11} 

»   «   r 

US 
[84 

I    lo     4 

I   12    8 

I   15    0 

I  17    4 

I   19    8 

220. 

*     5    6 

290 

1  12     6    1  2  16     0 

z  19    6 

3     3    0 

fT^O 

a  14     a 

2  r8    4 

^26368 

3  10  10 

3  15    0 

Tu'.  ho    8 

3      <     417    10     r»     |7Td     8 

^   IQ     4 

440 

7a  MARKETING 

FKoar  MINE  fiVCZ  KALFP6NKY 


tables; 

TO  OKE  SHILLING  par  lb. 


No.  of 

9  Pence  ^ 

10  Pence. 

voPcDce  4- 

II  Penes. 

1 1  Pence  i 

I  Shil. 

lbs.  ^ 

.  1.     s.      d. 

1.     s.    d. 

1.  $.  d: 

1.     s.     d. 

I.     8.     d.' 

L     s. 

s 

.0'    I     7 

0     I     8 

019 

a     X    to 

Q       1    11 

0     2 

3 

^     *     4i 

026 

0     2     7f 

029 

0      X    lOf 

0     3 

4 

032 

0     3     4 

036 

038 

0      3    10 

0    4 

5 

0     3   11} 

042 

0    4    4| 

047 

049* 

<>     5 

0 

049 

050 

«    5     3 

056 

0     5     9 

0     6 

7 

0     5     6* 

0;    5   to 

0     6     if 

d     6     5 

0    6     81 

0     7 

8 

064 

068 

,    0     7     0" 

074 

078 

0     8 

9 

0  '7    «4 

076 

0     7  xof 

0     8.    3 

a     8     7* 

0     9 

10 

0     7  n 

•  0     8    4 

089 

092 

097" 

0  10 

H 

0     8     8| 

09     2 

'  0    0     7i 

0  10     I 

0  lo     6^ 

0    XI 

Ift 

096 

0  xo    0 

'  0   xo     d 

O    IX       0 

0  xi     d" 

>  0    12 

IS 

0  ie»    34 

0   10  id 

"04  ft      4:l 

oi  rx   n 

• 

0  12     5f 

'  0    13 

14 

on     I 

0  M     8 

0    IX       3 

0    12     10 

013      «; 

0  14 

^5 

0  II   if>| 

0  It     6 

»   »3     i| 

o(  13     9 

a  14     4f 

0  15 

i( 

0   IS     8 

0  15     4 

.0   14    0 

o"  14     8 

0   M     4 

0  16 

17 

0   13     5^ 

0   14    2 

0    14    in^ 

0  »5     7 

016     4f 

0  17 

x8 

^   14    3 

0  »5     0 

0    15      9' 

0   t6     6 

017     3 

0  18 

^9 

0   15.    of 

0  i<  10 

0   i6     7^ 

ol  17     f 

0    iS      2f 

0  19 

20 

0    r  ^   10 

0  16     8 

0   17     6" 

0.  18     4 

0  19     2^ 

I     0 

21 

0    ifi     7f 

0  17     6 

0  t8    4| 

0  19     , 

X      0      t| 

'  I     I 

2£ 

0   17     5^ 

0  lU    4 

019     3' 

102. 

I       I       X 

K       2 

13 

0    iS      2| 

0  19     1 

I     0     xf 

X     I     i 

t       2       of 

»     3 

»4 

0   19     0         I     0     0 

X      t     0 

X,    2     w 

t       3       0 

t    4 

a^ 

0  19     9f      1     6  ro 

I      I   lof 

X'     2    II 

I     3   xtf 

«     5 

26 

I     0     7 

I     I     8 

t     2     9 

X'      3     ID 

X    4  IX 

X     6 

27 

I     I     4i 

T     2     6 

<     3     7f 

I     4    ^ 

t     5  xof 

«     7 

[28 

I     i     2 

I     3    4 

146 

X     5     8 

X     6  xo 

X     8 

29 

1     t  iif 

^  4  X 

I     «»     4^ 

I     6     7 

"     7     9i 

I     9 

30 

f     3     9. 

15  0 

X     6     ,' 

t     7     6 

X     8     9 

X    xo 

3< 

I     4     64 

t    5  10 

t     7     iJ 

t.    8     5 

«     9    8f 

X     IX 

3» 

I     5     4^ 

I     6     8 

1      8      n 

X     9    4 

X   Xo    8 

X      12 

33 

I  6   a 

1     7     6 

I      8    loj 

1    xo     3 

I    XI     7f 

I    13 

J4 

I     6  II 

1     8     4 

T       9      9 

X     xf       2 

I    xz      7    . 

X    »4 

35 

I   7   H 

1     9     a 

X    10     7f 

1     12        I 

X    f3  .6| 

1    »5 

3< 

I     8     6 

I    lo     0 

XII     6 

X   13     0 

X    14     6 

I    x6 

3T 

I     9     3i 

I     TO    10 

I     12      4.}- 

X     X3    If 

^  "■?     5l 

X    X7 

38 

I   10     I 

I   IX     8 

»    M     ^ 

X    X4  10 

I   16     5 

X    x8 

39 

X  10  ic4 

T     11       6 

I   14     li 

I   X5     9 

I    17    4| 

x>  19 

40 

I  II    8' 

t  M     4 

115     0 

I    16     8 

X   x8    4 

2     a 

4« 

I  11   si 

I   14     2 

I    I>    Tfr| 

X    17     7 

«   »9     34 

2     I 

42 

'  n   3^ 

I   IS     0 

X    16     9 

I    18     6 

203 

i    a 

-   43 

t    14     of 

X    i^    to 

X    t7      74 

T     19        5 

2       t       2f 

i     3 

44 

I  14  10 

t   16     8 

X   i3     6 

204 

2      2       2 

2    4 

4^; 

t    15     7| 

I    17     6 

I  19    4f 

2        X       3 

2     3     if 

2     < 

^46 

1    16     5 

I   t8     4 

:i     0     3 

2      2      1 

241 

2     6 

47 

I     17      2f 

I   19     * 

2     X     xf 

2       3       T 

2        5       of 

2     7 

4» 

I     18      0 

Zoo 

220 

240 

260 

2    S 

49 

I    1%     9^ 

2       0     To 

2       2    Inf 

2       4    Xt 

2     6  xxf 

2     9 

5^ 

I    t9     7 

2        I       8 

230' 

z     ^    to 

2     7  xt 

2   xo 

51 

2    0    4i 

S       2       6 

147* 

2      6     n 

2       8     Tof 

2    XI 

5* 

2       12 

234 

z.   *:    6' 

i     7     8 

2       9     XO 

2     12 

53 

2     I   irf 

a    4    * 

2     6     4^ 

2     8     7 

2     XO      9I 

*   «3 

54 

229 

250 

273 

z     9     6 

2    II      9 

2  14 

r^*; 

*    3    6* 

2     s  **> 

2       8      rjl 

2     TO       5 

*  "   l^ 

*  »5 

[^6 

244 

2'    6    8 

1     9     f» 

2     IT      4 

2  13     8 

2    x6 

[«4 

3     6    6 

^   to    0 

3    13     <> 

3   »7     0 

4     06 

4    4| 

(too     3   19     2. 
ffii     488 

4    3    4 

476 

4  u     8 

4  t«J   "•> 

5     ^ 

4.U      4: 

4  t!j     6 

■Hi 

^74 

5  1^1 

C    73   "^ 


it 


-9      - 


t  r 


«  'I        it      •/ 


H  6  tf  §  E  :k  A  i  rf; 


w 


n 


J    * 


It  is  die  bufincfs  oCthia^  fcrxant  to  keep  the  whole 
houfe  in  a  ftate  of  cleanlinels,  by  carefully  waihing  the 
rooms,  ftair  cafes>  &cJ  cleaning  the  fi^e-^ates,  irons^ 
and  hearths,  dufting  caijjcts,  and  rubbinjg  the  furniture, 
as  i^cl|  as  ^e  locks, .  knockers,  glaffe§,  chimney  ornar 
mentis,  pidhire  framesl '&c.. 

For  cleaning  mahogany  furniture,  the  beft  prepara- 
tion is,  to  mix  together  a  quart  of  cold-drawn  Bnleed 
^11,  with  half^an  ounce  of'role-pink,  and  two  ounces  of 
Alkanc^t  root:,  the  iurnitur(6  muft  be, well  cleared  of 
.duft  and  a  little  of  ,tFie  above  rubbed  over* it. with  a 
linen  rag,  and  foon  afterwards  again  well  rubbed  with 
linen  cloths,  fo  as  not  to  leave  the  leaft  clammihefs: 
once  a  week  will  be  f\ifficient  to  ufe  the  oil,  but  the  fur- 
niture ought  to  be  rubbed  every  day ;  by  which  it  will 
foon  obtain  a  fmooth  anc^  glofly  appearance,  and  arnply 
recompenfe  the  trouble.-— Nor  is  hard  rubbing  necef- 
iary;  a  brifk,  light  mot^qn,  tiHthe  wood  becomes  warm 
under  the  hand,  will  give  mahogany  a  polifh  like 
•  marble.  ••     ;  •;..'•;.  ■  : ' 

« 

A  little  kmon  juieci  w  tfe^t  pulp  which  remains  in  a 
leoion  after  bein^  iqueA^,  will  take  oujt  f^s  of  ink 
preferably  to  iaqua-foitis  or  oil  of  vitriol,  which  have 
bcoi  direfted  by  ^peop)^  who  pretend  tp  much  knowr 
ledgc^n  thisfubjf  61^ 

Beck; wax rwiU  make:  nfiahpgany  fhine,  Iput  is  leis  be« 
neficial  to  furniture  than  the  above  mixture;  befides  that 
it  wtU  recfkid  .tvcry  ma^k  of,  ^  firmer  laid  upon  it. 


w-  ^1 


.  . . 

.Vol,  11. 


'i; 


Many 


74     ^  J     A     Ml   $. 

Many  things  mentioned  under  our  direction  to  Cham^ 
bir-ffiaidSy  will  dcferve  the  attention  of  the  diligent  and 
cleanly  Houfe^maid. 


H    Y    S    T    E    R    I    C    S- 

The  fyniptonis  of  this  complaint  arc,  an  intercepted 
breathing,  almdft  to  fuffocation,  fainting,  lofs  of  fpeech, 
drowfinefs,  cpftivenefs,  and  making  large  quantities  c^ 
urine,  almoft  as  clear  as  ip^ing  watch 

Take  fimplc  peppermint  water,  twelve  ouric^;  one 
ounce  of  valerian  f  and  half  an  ounce  of  lavender  drops; 
mix  them  together,  and  take  three  large  ipDonfuIs  two  or 
three  times  in  a  day,  and  alfo  apply  to  £he  navel  a  large 
j;albanum  plafter. 


>  t 


'    1       ' 


^  I. 


~         /A     MS. 

Cmer](y  Jam.  Stone  fome  cherries^  boil  them  welli 
and  break  them;  take  them  off  the  fire^  let  die  juice 
-run  from  them ;  to  three  pounds  of  cfacirics;  boil  toge- 
ther half  a  pint  of  red  currant  juice,  and  half  a  pouml 
of  biif  fugar ;  put  in  the  cherH^  as  they  boil,  fift  in 
three  quarters  of  a  pound  of  fugar ;  boil  the  cherriflt 
Ycry  iadd  for  more  than  half  to  hour.  When  cold,  put 
•ion  brandy  paper. 

Red  Raspberry  Jam.  Gather  your  raf^bories  when 
they  are  ripe  and  dry ;  p|ck  them  very  carefully  from 

I  tfat 


■^P" 


'  J.     A     M      S.  ff 

the  ftalks  and  dead  ones,  cmOx  them  in  whofA  mdi  -m 
fiiver,  or  wooden  ipoon  (pewter  is  apt  tn  turn  tl^em  % 
pprple  colour);  as  foon  as  you  Inve  cniflied  Asn^&rcur 
in  dieir  own  weight  of  loaf  ii^ar,  and  half  tfaeicwBcig^e 
0f  currant  juice,  baked  andftrained  as  fiir  jelly;  then 
fee  them  orer  a  clear  flow  fire,  boil  them  half  amhoui^ 
4um  them  weU,  and  keq>  ftirring  them  at  the  time;^ 
then  put  diem  into  pots  or  ^afles,  with  brandy  paper 
over  them,  and  keep  them  for  ufe*- 

As  foon  as  you  have  got  your  berries,  ftrew  in  youe 
fogar;  dp  not  let  them  ftand  long  before  you  boil  them^ 
it  will  prefcrve  their  flavour. 

Apricot  Jam.  Provide'Ibme  fine  rich  apricots,  cut 
them  in  thin  pieces,  and  infufe  them  in  an  earthen  pot 
till  they  are  tender  and  dry ;  put  a  pound  of  double- 
refined  fugar,  and  three  fpoonfiills  of  water  to  every 
pound  and  half  of  apricots;  then  boil  your  fugar  to  a 
candy  height,  and  put  it  upon  your  apricots*  Set  them 
over  z  flow  fire,  and  flir  them  till  they  appear  clear  and 
thick ',  but  they  muft  only  fimmer,  not  boil ;  then  put 
them  in  your  glafles. 

Black  Currant  Jam*^  Gather  your  currants  when  they 
are  full  ripe,  and  pick  them  clean  fix>m  die  ftalks^  then 
bruife  them  well  in  a  bpwl,  and  to  every  two  pounds  of 
ctirrants  put  a  pound  an4  a  half  of  loaf  fugar^  fineljF 
beaten.  Put  them  into  a  preferving  pan,  boil  them  half 
an  hour,  fldm  and  (Ur  them  all  the  time,  and  then  put 
them  into  pots. 

Green  Gooseberry.  J  am.  Take  fome  large  fiiU  growa 
green  goofeberries,  but  not  too  ripe ;  cut  them  in  half^ 
take  out  the  feeds;  put  them  in  a  pan  of  cold  fpring  wa« 
ffCT^  lay  fome  vine  leaves  at  the  bottom^  then  ibme  goolc* 

L  a;  berries^ 


JAN    U    A    Rf  Y. 

berries^  Sagstiti^ine  ka^res^^  tili  ^.the  fruit  is  in  the  panr 
cover  It  very:  dofe,  that  no  ftdam  can  evaporate^  and 
fet  them  on  a  very  flow^  fire.  When  they  are  fcalding 
hot>  take  thrm  off;  then  fet  them  on  ag^n,  and  then 
take  them  o&y  they  muft  he  done  lb  till  they  are  of  a. 
good  green;  lay  them  <m  ,a  fieve  to  drkin,  beat  them  in 
a  marUc  mortar  with  their  weight  in  fiigar;  then  take  w 
qu^t  of  water^  and  ^  quart  of  goofeberries>  boil  them 
to  a  malh,  fqueeze  them ;  to  every  pint  of  this  liquoc 
put  a  pound. bf  fine  Ipafrfugar,  boil  and  fldm  it;  then 
put  in  thc^ecfi  goofeberries,  let  them  bpU  till  they  ^xt 
thick  and  clear^  and  of  a  good  green. 


\  • . 


"*. 


J    A    N    U    A    R    Y. 

LIST   OF  PRODUCTIONS. 


Meat. 
BEEF 
Houfe  Iamb 
Mutton  '  ' 
Pork 


pari 


Fifi. 


'$ . 


Capons 

Fowls 

Hare 

Partridge 

Phetfant- 

Pullets 

t(abbif8 

Snipes 

Tame  pigeons 

Turkeys 

Woodqocks 


irp     ' 

Cod- 
Crabs 
Cray-fifh 
Eels 

Flounders 
Lampreys 
Lobuers  " 
Ojriiers 
Perch 
Plaice 
Prawns 
Scate 
Smelts 
Soles 
Sturgeon 
Tench    ' 
Jurbot  . 


FegetaUes. 
Beets 
Borecole 
Biocoli,  purple 

and  w|ute    ' 

CiUTOtS 

Celery' 

ChertU  . 

Coleworts 

Creiles    ' 

Endive 

Garlic 

Leeks 

Lettuce 

Muftard 

Mint 

Parfley 

Fdr&ips 


Potatoes 

Radifh' 

Saliafy 

Savoys 

Spnel 

Spinach 

Sprouts 

Skirrets 

Taragon 

Fruit. 
Almonds ' 
Apples . ' 
Grapes 
AlecUar^ 
Nuts 
Pearl 


DINNERS 


J    A    N    U    A    R    Y. 


77 


DINNERS    OF   TWO   COURSES. 

Firjl  Courfi. 

Soup  Sant^,  removed 
witn  crimp  ialmont 

Brown  veal  coUqit, 
Stewed  celery. 
Turkey  boiled  with       Fennel  4auce; 
oyfter  &uce» 
Sallad. 

Baked  bread  pudding, 
Quarter  of  lamb  roafied* 


Petit  Fatties; 
Plain  butter. 

Fricaflee  of  chicken* 


Buttered  lobften 
Preiervcd  qumces* 
Flummery* 


Second  Courfe. 

Fheafant   roafted« 
China  oranges* 

Jellies* 
Golden  pppent* 
Hare* 

■»  »  |i»'i    ^  I  I  i  i  I  I 


Tartlets* 

Frefiffved  rafberiier 
in  bunches. 


A^aragus 


DINNERS    OF   THREE  COURSES. 

Firft  C9wf€. 


Leg  of  lamb. 

Chicken  and  veal 

pie. 

Tongue* 


Marinated  Imelts. 

jKoSift  fweetbreadg. 

Almond  tart. 


Cbe&utfoup. 
Petit  patties* 

Cod's  head. 

Refold* 
Vermicelli  foup* 

Second  CBurft* 

Roaft  Turkey. 

Tartlets. 
Stands  of  Jellies. 
Maids  of  Honour* 
Woodcocks* 


Boiled  chickens* 
Roaft  beef.    . 

m 

Scotch  coUopSfr 


Mince  pies. 
Larks. 
Lobfiers.  ^ 


'•»  '<■<' 


Artichoke  bottoms. 

Cuftards. 
Scolloped  oyfters. 


Third  Comrfu 

Morels. 
Dutch  beef, 

fcraped. 
Cut  paih^'. 
Potted  Chars* 
Rabbit  fricafleed. 


MacaronL 

Black  caps. 
Stewed  celeiy; 


Thb 


[    7»    j 
J  A  XJ  N  D  ICE. 

This  difeafe  is  firft  obfervable  in  the  white  of  the  tj^M 
whicR  aippears  yellow ;  afterwards  the  whole  flcin  puts 
on  the^  iame  appearance.  The  urine  too  is  of  a  (aSroq 
colour,  and  dyes  a  white  cloth  of  the  fame  colour. 

If  ^^  padent  be  young,  and  the  difeafe  conopUtated 
with  no  other  malady,  it  is  feldom  dangerous;  but  in 
old  people,  where  it  continues  long,  returns  frequendy^ 
oris  complicated  wiA  the  dropfy,  or  hypochondriac 
fymptoms,.  it  generally  proves  fatal.  The ,  black  jaun- 
^ce  is  more  dangerous  than  the  yellow. 

I£^  patient  be  youngs  of  a  full  fanguine  habit,  and 
compbina  of  apaini  in  the  right  fide,  aboot  the  region 
of  the  liver,  bleeding  will  be  neceflary  ^  after  this,  ^ 
▼omit  muft  be  adminilleredj  and  if^  the  diie^e  proves 
obftinate,  it  may  be  repeated  once  or  twice^  No  me- 
dicines are  more  beneficial  in  the  jaundice  than  vomiisi 
tfpccizWy  where  it  is  not  attended  with  inflannnation^ 
Haifa  dram  of  ipecacuanha,  in  powder,  will  be  a  fufHcU 
tnt  dofe  for  a  grown  perfon..  It  may  be  wrought  off  wiA, 
weak  camomile  tea,  or  luke^wamv  water.  The  bodjp 
muft  likewife  be  kept  open,  by  taking  a.  fufficient  quaivi 
tity  of  Caftile  foap. 

The.  foluble  tartar  is  a  very  proper  medicine  in  the 
jaundrce.  A  dram  of  it  may  be  taken  every  night  anc^ 
morning  in  a  cup  of  tea  or  water  gruel :  if  it  does  not 
open  the  body,  the  dofe  may  be  increafed.  A  very 
obftinate  jaundice  has  been  cured  by  fwallqwing  raw 
eggs- 

Per- 


J    £   L   t.   1   E  -  §",  <7$ 

t^er£>iis  ftibjdEl:  to  jthe  jaundice>  ought  to  take  .astlluch 
accrcife  as  pofllble,  and  to  avoid  aU  heating  andafllria* 
gent  afiments* 


t  C  £. — See  Cakes  and  Creams. 


JELLIES. 

In  making  jellies  of  all  kinds,  avoid  letting  any  leed^ 
from  the  fruit  fall  into  your  jelly;  and  be  careful  not  t6 
iqueeze  it  too  near,  which  woilld  render  your  jelly  left 
tranlparent.  Pound  your  fugar,  and  let  it  diflblve  in 
the  lyrup  before  you  fet  it  on  the  fire,  the  fcum  will  diea 
rife  the  better,  and  the  jelly  will  be  of  a  finer  coloitr. 
Boiling  jellies  too  high,  gives  them  a  darkifh  hue,  ^diich 
(hould  therefore  be  avoided.  Tie  them  well  down  with 
white  paper,  with  two  folds  of  thick  cap  paper  over 
them.  Leaving  the  pots  open^  or  negligently  tied,  is 
deftrudive  to  them.  . 

HartshornJelly.  Put  twoquarts  of  water  into  a  cle^n 
.pan,  with  half  a  pound  of  hartlhorn. (halvings,  let  it  fim- 
mer  till  near  one  half  is  reduced;  (bain  it  off,  then  put 
in  the  pcel^f  four  oranges  ^nd  two.  lemons,  pared  very 
thin;  boil  them  five  minutes,  put  to  it  the  juice  of  the 
before-mentioned  lemons  and  oranges,  with  about  ten 
ounces  of  double  refined  fugar;  beat  the  whites  of  (ix 
eggs  to  a  froth,  mix  them  carefully  with  your  jelly,  that 
you  do  not  poach  the  eggs ;  juft  let  it  boil  up^  and  rua 
it  through  a  jelly  bag  till  it  is  clear.. 


to 


J  E  L  L  r  E  a 


Amther  ^of.  Prepare  as  above,  and  put  to  h  tpvat 
Rhenifh  wine,  and  z  quarter  of  a  p6und  of  k>af  iV^ 
gar;  beat  the  whites  of  four  eggs  or  more  to  a  frothy 
mix  them  well  with  the  jelly,  and  pour  it  iii  as  if  you 
were  cooling  it*  Let  it  boil  two  or  three  minutes,  then 
put  in  the  juice  of  three  or  four  lemoilS;  let  it  boil  a 
minute  or  two  longer.  When  it  is  finely  curdled,  and 
of  a  pure  white  colour,  have  ready  a  fwan-fkin  jelly  bag 
over  a  china  bafon,  poilr  in  your  jeJly,  and  pour  back 
again  till  it  is  as  clear  as  rock  water ;  then  fet  a  very  clean 
^chinabaibn  ynder; Jjtave  your  glaflcs  ^s  clean  as  ppfliblc, 
and  fin  them  with  a  clean  fpopfi.  Have  ready 
ibme  thin  rind  of  the  lemons,  and  when  you  have  filled 
half  your  glafles,  throw  your  peel  into  the  bafon ;  and 
when  the  jelly  is  all  run  out  of  the  bag,  with  a  clean 
fpoon  fill  the  reft  of  the  glafTes,  and  they  will  look  of  ^ 
fine  amber  colour. 

To  make  Ribband  Jelly.  Take  oy t  the  great  bones  of 
four  calves  feet,  put  them  into  a  pot  with  ten '  quarts 
of  water,  three  ounces  of  hartfhorn,  three  ounces  of  ilin- 
glals,  a  nutmeg  quartered,  and  four  blades  of  mace ; 
tlien  boil  this  till  it  comes  to  two  quarts,  fbain  it  through 
ja  flannel  bag,  let  it  fiand  twenty-four  hours,  fcrapc  off 
alf  the  fat  from  the  top,  very  clean,  flice  the  jelly,  put 
to  it  the  whites  of  fix  eggs  beaten  to  a  froth,  boil  it  a 
little,  and  flrain  it  through  a  flannel  bag,  then  run  the 
jelly  into  litde  high  glafTes  j  run  every  colour  as  thick  as 
jour  finger,  but  one  colour  muft  be  thorough  cold  before 
you  put  another  on,  and  that  you  put  on  mufl  not  be 
"but  blood  warm,  for  fear  it  mix  together.  You  iHufl 
colour  red  with  cochineal,  green  with  fpinach,  yellovjr 
With  faffron,  blue  with  fyrup  of  violets,  white  with  thick 

cream 


JELLIES. 


U 


cream,  and  ibmetimcs  the  jelly  by  itfclf.  You  may 
add  orange  flower  .water ;  or  wine  and  fugar,  and  lemon, 
if  you  pleafe  j  but  this  is  all  fancy.  See  Calves  Feet, 
p.  162.  Vol.  I.. 

To  make  Currant  Jelly.  Strip  the  currants  from 
the  ilalks,  put  them  in  a  ilone  jar,  (lop  it  cloie,  iet  it 
in  a  kettle  of  boiling  water  halfway  up  the  jar,  let  it  boil 
half  an  hour,  take  it  out  and  ftrain  the  juice,  through  a 
coarfe  hair  lieve :  to  a  pint  of  juice  put  a  pound  of  fu* 
gar,  fet  it  over  a  quick  clear  fire  in  your  preferving 
pan  or  bell-metal  flcillet  i  keep  flirring  it  all  the  time, 
till  the  fugar  is  melted  j  then  fkim  the  fcum  off  as  faft 
as  it  rifes.  When  your  jelly  is  very  clear  and  fine,  pour 
it  into  gallipots ,  when  cold  cut  white  paper  juft  the  big- 
nels  of  the  top  of  the  pot,  and  lay  on  the  jelly  j  dip 
diofe  papers  in  brandy,  then  cover  the  top  clofe  with 
white  paper,  and  prick  it  full  of  holes;  fet  it  in  a 
^  place,  put  feme  into  glaflTes,  and  paper  them. 

Orange  Jelly.  Take  half  a  pound  of  hartfliom 
ihavings,  or  four  ounces  of  ifinglafs,  and  boil  it  in 
fpring  water  till  it  is  of  a  ftrong  jelly ;  take  the  juice  of 
three  Seville  oranges,  three  lemons,  and  fix  china 
oranges,  and  the  rind  of  one  Seville  orange  and  one  le- 
mon, pared  very  thin;  put  them  to  your  jelly,  fwecten 
it  with  loaf-fugar  to  your  palate ;  beat  up  the  whites  of 
fight  eggs  to  a  fi"oth,  and  mix  well  in,  then  boil  it  for 
ten  minutes,  and  run  it  through  a  jelly  bag  till  it  is 
very  clear ;  put  it  in  moulds  till  cold ;  then  dip  your 
mould  in  warm  water,  and  turn  it  out  into  a  china  dfli, 
or  a  Hat  glafs,  and  garnifh  with  flowers. 

m/pberry  Jelly.     Make   it  in  the. fame  manner  as 
currant  jelly,  pnjy  put  one  half  currants  and  the  other 
half  rafpbcrries. 
Vol.  11.  M  Vtnglafs 


tt 


INFLAMMATIONS,  &c. 


yinglafi  Jelly.  Boll  an  ounce  of  ifinglais  and  a 
quarter  of  an  ounci  of  cloves  in  a  quart  o(  water  till  it  k 
reduced  to  a  pint  i  then  drain  it  over  fome  fugar^ 


IKFLAMMAtlONS,  (>r  ABSCESSES, 

From  whatever  caufe  to  inflammation  proceeds,  it 
miift  terminate  either  by  difperfion,  ripening,  or  a  gan- 
grene ;  though  it  is  impoflSble  to  foretell  with  certainty 
in  which  of  thefc  ways  it  will  end.  Inflammations  in 
eonfequence  of  a  flight  cold,  and  without  any  previous 
indilpofition,  will  moft  probably  difperfe  by  proper  fo- 
mentadons,  joined  to  a  flender  diet,  and  repeated  pur^ 
ge&.-— The  flcin  of  the  inflamed  part  may  be  bathed 
with  a  mixture  of  three  parts  of  fweet  cil,  and  ond 
^urth  of  vinegar,  and  afterwards  covered  with  a  piece 
of  wax  plafl:er. 

Such  inflammations  as  follow  clofe  upon  any  difbrder, 
oi*  happen  to  perfons  of  a  grofs  habit  of  body,  generally 
fi^purate  i  the  beft  application  to  promote  which  is,  a 
foft  poultice  of  white  bread  and  milk,  with  a  fmall 
quantity  of  fweet  oil,  renewed  twice  a-day.  If  the  tu- 
mour ripens  but  ftowly,  a  raw  onion  cut  fmall  or  bruifed, 
fnay  be  fpreadon  the  poultice. — ^When  the  abfcefs  is  fit 
for  opening,  which  may  be  eafily  known  by  the  thin- 
nefs  of  the  fkin,  it  may  be  done  with  a  lancet,  or  pair 
of  fine-pointed  feiflars. 

This  includes  the  treatment  of  all  thofe  diforders 
which  go  under  the  names  of  blks^  impqfthumeSy  zvhit^ 
loiSf  &c.  for  they  are  all  abfcefles  in  confequence  of  a 
previous  itSxraXBOhn  i   and  ought>  if  poffible  to  be 

di%crfed; 


INFUSIONS, 


8:? 


difpcriod;  but  if  fQund  ncceflqiy  tQ  ripen  thrm,  tht 

fore  may  be  afterwards  drefled  with  yellow  bftAUcuFn^ 
In  cafes  of  gangrfen^  qt  raprtification,  ^e  woyld  re- 
commend the  calHng  in  of  proper  fwrgic^  ^ffiftanc?. 


IN   F  -U  S   I  O  N    S. 

Vegetables  yield  nearly  the  fame  properties  to  water, 
by  infufion,  as  by  decoftion ;  and  though  they  may  re-- 
quire  a  longer  time  to  give  out  virtues  in  this  way,  yet 
it  has  feveral  advantages  over  the  other ;  fince  boiling 
is  found  to  diflipate  the  finer  parts  of  many  bitter  and 
aromatic ^ubftances,  without  more  fully  extrafting  their' 
medicinal  principles. 

Even  from  thofe  vegetables  which  are  weak  in  virtue, 
rich  infijfions  may  be  obtained  by  returning  the  liquor 
upon  frefti  quantities  of  the  fubjeft,  the  water  loading  it- 
fclf  more  and  more  with  the  aftive  parts;  and  thefe 
loaded  infufions  are  applicable  to  valuable  purpofes  in 
medicine,  as  they  contain  in  a  fmaU  compafe  the  finer, 
mprcfubde,  and  aftivc  principles  of  vegetables,  in  s 
form  readily  mixable  with  the  fluids  of  the  human  body. 

Bitter  Infusion.  Take  tops  of  the  leffer  centaury 
and  camomile  flowers,  of  each  half  an  ounce  ^  yellow 
rind  of  lemon,  and  orange-peel,  carefully  freed  from  the 
inner  white  partjj  of  each  two  drams  j  cut  them  in  fmall 
pieces,  and  infiife  them  in  a  quart  of  boiling  water. 

For  indigefl:ion^  weaknefs  of  the  ftomach,  or  want  of 
appetite,  a  tea-cupfiii  of  this  infufion  maybe  taken  twica 

or  thrice  a-day. 

Inpvsion  ofih  Bark.    To  an  ounce  of  the  bark  ill 

powder,  add  four  or  five  table-fpoonfuls  of  brandy,  m4 

Ma  a  pint 


84 


INFUSIONS. 


a  pint  of  boiling  water.    Let  them  infufc  for  two  of 
three  days. 

This  is  one  of  the  beft  preparations  of  the  bark  for 
weak  ftomachs.  In  difordcrs  where  the  corroborating 
virtues  of  that  medicine  are  required,  a  tea-cupfiil  of 
it  may  be  taken  two  or  three  times  a-day. 

Infusion  ofCarduus.  Infiife  an  ounce  of  the  dried 
leaves  of  carduus  benediftus  in  a  pint  of  common  wa- 
ter, for  fix  hours,  without  heat ;  then  filter  the  liquor 
through  paper.  This  light  infofion  may  be  given  with 
great  benefit  in  weaknefs  of  the  flomach,  where  the 
common  bitters  do  not  agree.  It  may  be  flavoured  at 
pleafure  with  cinnamon,  or  other  aromatic  materials. 

I  NFus  I  ON  of  Linfeed.  Take  of  linfeed  two  fpoonflils  j 
liquorice  root,  diced,  half  an  ounce;  boiling  water, 
thiee  pints.  Let  them  ftand  to  .infufe  by  the  fire  for 
fome  hours,  and  then  flrain  off  the  liquor.  If  an  ouAce 
of  the  leaves  of  <:olt's-foot  be  added  tp  thefe  ingredients, 
it  will  then  be  the  PeStoral  Infufion.  Both  thefe  arc 
enaollient,  mucilaginous  liquors^  and  may  be  taken  with 
advantage  as  ordinary  drink  in  di^iculty  of  making  wa-> 
tcr ;  and  in  coughs  and  other  complaints  of  the  bread. 

Infusion  ofRo/es.  Take  of  red  rofes,  dried,  half  an 
ounce ;  boiling  water,  a  quart ;  vitriolic  acid,  com- 
monly called  oil  of  vitriol,  half  a  dram  -,  loaf-fugar,  an 
ounce. 

Infufe  the  rofes  in  the  water  for  four  hours,  in  an  un- 
glazed  earthen  velTel ;  afterwards  pour  in  the  acid,  and 
having  fb-ained  the  liquor,  add  to  it  the  fugar. 

In  an  exceffive  flow  of  the  wenfes,  or  in  vomiong  of 
blood,  a  tea-cupful  of  this  gende  aftringent  infufion 
may  be  taken  every  three  or  four  hows.    It  likc^c 

makes 


INFUSIONS. 


«^ 


makes  an  exceeding  good  gargle :  but  as  the  quantity 
of  rofes  ufed  here  can  have  little  cSc6t,  an  equally  va-^ 
luable  medicine  may  be  prepared  by  mixing  the  acid 
and  water  without  infulion. 

Infusion  of  Tamarinds  and  Senna.  Take  of  tanu- 
rinds^  one  ounce  i  fenna  and  cryftals  of  tartar,  each  two 
drams.  Let  thefe  ingredients  be  infufed  four  or  five 
hours  in  a  pint  of  boiling  water ;  afterwards  let  the  li- 
quor be  (trained,  and  an  ounce  or  two  of  the  aromatic 
tin6h2re  added  to  it.  Pcrfbns  who  are  eafilj^  purgedj 
may  leave  out  either  the  tamarinds  or  the  cryftals  of 
tartar.  This  is  an  agreeable  cooling  purge.  A  tea- 
cupful  may  ^  be  given  every  half  hour,  till  it  ope- 
rates. This  fupplies  the  Decoction  of  Tamarinds  and 
Senna. 

Spaniji  IsFvsioN.  Take  of  Spanilh  juice,  cut  inta 
imall  pieces,  an  ounce ;  fait  of  tartar,  three  drams.-— 
Infule  in  a  quart  of  boiling  water  for  a  night.  To  the 
ftrained  liquor  add  one  ounce  and  a  half  of  the  fyrup  o£ 
poppies.  In  recent  colds,  coughs,  and  obftrudions  of 
the  breaft,  a  tea-cupful  of  this  infufion  may  be  taken 
with  advantage  three  or  four  times  a-day. 

Infusion  for  the  Paljy.  Take  of  horfe-radifli  root, 
ihaved,  muftard  feed,  bruifed,  each  four  ounces ;  outer 
rind  of  orange-peel,  one  ounce.  Infufe  them  in  twa 
quarts  of  boiling  water  in  a  clofe  vcflcl  for  rwcnty-four 
hours. 

In  paralytic  complaints,  a  tea-cupful  of  this  warm 
ftimulating  medicine  may  be  taken  three  or  four  times 
a-day.  It  excites  the  aftion  of  the  folids,  proves  diu- 
retic^ and,  if  the  patient  be  kept  warm,  promotes  per- 
Ipiration.    If  two  or  three  ounces  of  the  dried  leaves  of 

marih'* 


94 


ITCH. 


mcrfli'tyefiul  be  uTed  inftead  of  ii\c  muftard,  it  mSk 
auke  die  Auifcorbutk  hfufim. 


■P**^ 


I     T     C      H. 

This  diieafe  is  commonly  coiiimunicated  by  infec- 
tion^  yet  it  feldom  prevails  where  due  regard  is  paid  to 
deanlinefs,  frefh  air,  and  wholcfome  diet.  Its  fymp- 
tonris  arc  v^  well  known }  and  it  is  feldom  a  dangerous 
d^afe,  unlefi  when  rendered  fo  by  neglcA,  or  impro- 
per  treatment.  If  it'  be  fuffered  to  continue  too  long, 
it  may  vitiate  the  whole  mafs  of  humours ;  and>  if  it  be 
&ddcnly  drove  in,  without  proper  evacuations^  it  may 
occafion  fevers,  inflammation  of  the  bowels,  or  odier 
internal  diforders. 

-  The  beft  medicine  yet  known  for  the  itch  is  fulphur, 
which  ought  to  be  ufed  both  externally  and  internally. 
The  p^ts  Tr)G&  affefted  may  be  rubbed  with  an  oint- 
ment made  of  the  flowers  of  fulphur,  two  ounces ; 
crude  fal  anamoniac,  finely  powderedi  two  drams :  hog's 
lard  or  butter,  four  ounces  $  a  little  efTence  of  lemoii 
will  entirely  take  away  the  dif^greeable  fmell.  About 
the  bulk  of  a  nutmeg  of  this  may  be  rubbed  upon  the 
extremities  at  bed  time,  twice  or  thrice  a-week.  It  is 
feldonr)  neceflfary  to  rub  the  whole  body;  but  when  fo, 
it  ought  not  to  be  done  all  at  once,  but  by  turns,  as  it  is 
dangerous  to  flop  too  many  pores  at  the  fame  time. 

Before  the  patient  begins  to  ufe  the  ointment,   he 

ought,  if  he  be  of  a  full  habit,  to  bleed,  or  take  a  purge 

or  two.     It  will  likewife  be  proper,  during  the  ufe  of 

it,  tQ  take  every  night  and  morning,  as  much  of  the 

X  flower 


ITCH.  fy 

flower  of  brimftone  and  cream  of  tkrtar,  iii  a  litde  treai* 
cie,  or  new  inilk^  as  will  keep  the  body  gently  open.— ^ 
He  fliould  beware  of  catching  coidj  ihould  wear  more 
clbaths  than  ufual>  and  take  every  thing  warm.  The 
fame  deaths,  the  linen  excepted,  ought  to  be  worn  all 
the  time  of  ufmg  the  ointment ;  and  fuch  clothes  at 
have  be^n  worn  while  the  patient  was  under  the  diieale9 
are  not  to  be^  ufed  again ;  for  unlefs  they  have  been  fu»- 
migated  with  brimftone,  and  thoroughly  cleaned^  they 
Will  comrtiunicate  the  infeftion  anew. 

Brinnftone,  when  ufed  as  direfted  above,  never  f$Sk 
to  cure  the  itch  ^  but  if  it  be  pnly  ufed  once  or  t^ee^ 
and  deanlinefs  negle&ed,  it  is  no  wonder  if  the  diforder 
returns.  It  is  both  more  fafe  and  efficacious  when  per* 
fifted  in  for  a  confiderable  time^  than  when  a  large  quan- 
tity is  applied  at  once. 

The  powder  of  white  hellebore  root^  made  up  into  ai| 
ointment,  in  the  fame  manner,  will  feldom  fail  to  curCv 
the  itch. 

People  ought  to  be  extremely  cautious  left  they  take 
other  erupdons  for  the  itch  i  as  the  ftoppage  of  theft 
may  be  attended  with  fatal  confequences.  Many  of  the 
ehipdve  difiirders  to  which  children  are  liable  have  a 
near  refemblance  to  this  difeafe ;  and  infants  have  crfceA 
been  killed  by  being  rubbed  with  grdafy  ointments,  that 
made  thefe  eruptions  ftrike  fuddenly  in,  which  nature 
had  thrown  out,  to  preferve  the  patient's  life,  or  prevent 
fome  other  malady. 

Much  mifchief  is  likewife  done  by  the  ufe  of  mer- 
tury  in  this  difeafe.  Some  perfons  are  ib  fool-hardy,  aa 
to  wafh  the  parts  affected  with  a  ftrong  folytion  of  the 
eontsffive  fubUmate.   Othetsufe  the  mercurial  ointment^ 

without 


«« 


IT    C    H. 


without  taking  the  leaft  care  either  to  avoid  cold,  keep 
the  body  open,  or  obferve  a  proper  regimen.  The  con- 
icquences  of  fuch  conduft  may  be  cafily  gUeffed.  Even 
the  mercurial  girdles  produce  tragical  efFcds.  Mer- 
icury  ought  never  to  be  ufed  as  a  medicine,, without  the 
.^cateft  care.  Ignorant  people  look  upon  thefe  girdles 
as  a  kind  of  charm,  without  confidering  that  the  mer- 
cury enters  the  body. 

It  is  not  to  be  told  what  mifchief  is  done  by  ufihg 
mercurial  ointment  for  curing  the  itch,  and  killing  ver- 
ifnin ;  yel  it  is  unneceffary  for  either :  the  former  may 
be  always  more  certainly  cured  by  fulphur,  and  the  lat- 
ter will  never  be  found  where  due  regard  is  paid  to  clean- 
Jinefs. 

Thofe  who  would  avoid  this  deteftable  difeafe,  ought 
to  beware  of  infe6^ed  perfons,  to  ufe  wholcfome  food, 
md  to  ftudy  univcrfal  cleanlineis. 

As  an  external  remedy  in  the  itch,  the  following  is 
not  only  more  elegant,  but  equally,,  if  not  more  ejicacious^ 
than  all  the  prefcriptions  at  prefcnt  in  ufe :  Take  a 
quarter  of  a  pound  of  fulphur  in  rolls,  and  holding  it 
with  a  pair  of  tongs,  fct  it  on  fire,  letting  it  drop  into 
an  earthen  vejBcl,  containing  a  quart  of  white  wine ;  put- 
ting the  wine  into  a  botde  for  the  following  ufe : 

Pour  as  much  of  this  wine  into  a  bafon,  as  is  (uflicient 
to  wafli  the  hands,  and  let  them  foak  in  it  for  a  quarter 
of  an  hour.  This  muft  be  renewed  feveral  times  a-day^ 
taking  care  that  the  fame  wine  is  not  ufed  twice. 

Even  when  thofe  critical  eruptions  .  (which  appear 
about  the  end  of  fome  difordcrs,  and  prognofticate  a 
cure)  continue  too  long,  and  threaten  to  deform  the 
^in,  this  lotion  may  h^  fafely  had  recourfc  to,  oQt  he- 


uig 


JUNE.  89 

ing  in  the  lead  of  a  repellent  nature.  BefideSj  that  this 
fulphurated  wine  renders  the  hands  fofc^  fmooth,  and 
white. 


t 

J  u 

N   E. 

* 
1* 

PRODUCTIONS   OF   THIS  MONTH. 

Meat. 

Turkey  pouts 

Tench 

Onions 

Beef 

Wheat-ears 

Trout 

Pariley 

Buck  venifon 

Turbot 

Peafc 

Lamb 

Fi/h. 

Potatoes 

Muttoa 

Carp 

Kej^etahles. 

Purflanc 

Veal 

Cray-filh 

Artichokes 

Radiihe^ 

Eels 

Afparagus 
Allfmallfallad 

Poultry. 

Herrings 

Fruit. 

Chickens 

Lobflers 

Beans 

Apples 

Ducklings 

Mackarel 

Cababges 

Apricbts 

Fowls 

Mullets 

Carrots 

Cherries 

Green  gcefc 

Pike 

Cauliflowers 

Currants 

Leverets 

Prawns 

Cucumbers 

Goofeberriet 

PlovecB 

Salmon 

Kidney  beans 

Pears 

Pullets 

Smelts 

Lettuce 

Strawberries 

Babbits 

Soles 

- 

DINNERS    OF    TWO    COyRSES. 

Firfi  Cour/f. 

. 

Green  peafe  foup,  removed 

with  macLareL 

Pricaflee  of  chickens*  Neck  of  mutton  boiled, 

and  caper  iauce. 
Fiih  fauce. 


Hare  collops. 
Tongue  boiled« 

Vol,,  u. 


Calf's  head  pie.  Pig^ns  in  furprize. 
Currant  jelly.  Papiets  de  veau. 

Haunch  of  venilbn« 

N  ^C9ni 


9© 


Cheefe  cakes. 
Potted  beef. 
Artichokes 


JUNE. 

Second  Courfe* 

Two  turkey  pouts  roafted. 

Rajg;oo  of  mufhrooms^ 
Freferved  codlins. 


Orange  jelly* 
Compote  of  apncots* 

Wheat-ears  roailed« 


Collared  pig* 
Blanc  mange^ 


^♦-•- 


DINNERS    OF    THREE    COURSES, 


Chickens* 
Lamb  pie. 
Veal  cutlets. 


Flrft  Courfe. 

Green  peafe  foup« 

Haunch  of  venifon. 

Turbot. 

Neck  of  venifon* 

Lobfler  foup* 


Harrico. 
Ham. 
Orange  pudding. 


*^  <  «■•  <» 


Peafe, 
Fricaifeeof  lamb« 
Smelts. 


Second  Courfe* 

Turkey  pouts. 
Apricot  puffs. 
Half  moon. 

Cherry  tart. 
Roailed  rabbits. 


Lobfters. 
Roafted  fweetbreads. 
Artichokes. 


■<  r<  <  •■  »■ 


Fillets  of  foles, 

Peafe. 
Freferved  oranges* 


Third  Courfe. 

Sweetbreads  ^-la-blanche« 

Potted  wheat-ears. 

Green  goofcberry 
tart. 

Potted  ruff. 
Lamia's  tails  ^-la-bnufe. 


Ratafia  cream. 

Forced 
artichokes. 

Matelot  of  eels 


JULEPS. 


t    9»    1 


JULEPS. 

\ 

The  bafis  of  juleps  is  generally  common  water,  or 
fome  fimple  diftilled  water,  with  one  third  or  one  fourth 
its  quantity  of  diftilled  fpirituous  water,  and  as  much 
fugar  or  fyrup  as  is  fufficient  to  render  the  mixture  agree- 
able. This  is  fliarpened  with  vegfetable  or  mineral  acids, 
or  impregnated  with  other  medicines  fuitable  to  the  in- 
tention. 

Camphorated  J VLEP.  Take  of  camphor,  one  dram; 
gum  arabic,  half  an  ounce  -,  double  refined  fugar,  an 
ounce ;  vinegar,  a  pint.  Grind  the  camphor  with  a  few 
drops  of  reftified  fpirits  of  wine,  till  it  grows  foft ;  then 
add  the  gum,  previoufly  reduced  to  a  mucilage,  with 
equal  its  quantity  of  water,  and  rub  them  together  till 
they  arc  pcrfeftly  united.  To  this  mixture  add,  by  little 
and  little,  the  vinegar  with  the  fugar  diffolved  in  it, 
ftill  continuing  the  rubbing. 

In  hyfterical  and  other  complaints,  where  camphor  is 
proper,  this  julep  may  be  taken  in  the  dofe  of  a  fpoon- 
ful  or  two  as  often  as  the  ftomach  will  bear  it. 

Cordial  Julep.  Take  of  fimple  cinnamon  water,  four 
ounces ;  volatile  aromatic  fpirit,  and  compound  fpirit  of 
lavender,  each  two  drams  j  fyrup  of  orange-peel,  an 
ounce.     Mix  them. 

This  is  given  in  the  dofe  of  two  fpoonfuls  three  or 
four  times  a-day,  in  diforders  accompanied  with  great 
weaknefs  and  depreflion  of  fpirits. 

ExpeStorating  Julep.  Take  of  the  emulfion  of  gum 
ammoniac,  fix  ounces  j    fyrup  of  fquills,  two  ounces. 

'N  2  Mix 


^t  J  U  L  E  i>  S. 

Mix  thcnf>.  In  coughs,  afthmas,  and  obftruftions  of 
xht  brcaft,  two  table  fpoonfuls  of  this  julep  may  be  ta* 
ken  every  three  or  four  hours. 

Mujk  Julep.  Rub  half  a  dram  of  muflc  well  toge- 
ther with  half  an  ounce  of  fugar,  and  add  to  it,  gra- 
dually, of  limple  cinnamon  and  peppermint  water,  each 
two  Ounces }  of  the  volatile  aromatic  fpirit,  two  drams. 

In  the  low  ftate  of  rtervous  fevers,  hiccuping,  con- 
vuldons,  and  other  fpafmodic  affeftions,  two  table 
ipoonfuls  of  this  julep  may  be  taken  every  two  or  three; 
hours. 

Saline  Julep.  Diflblve  two  drams  of  fait  of  tartar  in 
three  ounces  of  frefh  lemon  juice,  drained :  when  the 
cffervefccnce  is  over,  add  of  mint  Water,  knd  common 
water,  each  two  ounces  j  of  fimple  fyrup,  one  ounce. 

This  removes  ficknefs  at  the  ftomach,  relieves  vo- 
miting,  promotes  perfpiration,  and  may  be  of  fomc 
fervice  in  fevers,  efpecially  ofthe  inflammatory  kind. 

Fomiting  Julep.  Diflblve  four  grains  of  emetic  tar- 
tar in  eight  ounces  of  water,  and  add  to  it  half  an  ounce 
ofthe  fyrup  of  clove  July  flowers. 

In  the  beginning  of  fevers,  where  there  is  no  topical 
Inflammation,  this  julep  may  be  given  in  the  dofe  of 
one  table  fpoonful  every  quarter  of  an  hour,  till  it  ope- 
rates. Antimonial  vomits  ferve  not  only  to  evacuate 
the  contents  of  the  ftomach,  but  likcwifc  to  promote  the 
different  excretions. 


JULY 


[    93    } 


JULY. 

Articles  for  the  table. 


Meat. 

Wheat-cars 

TcncL 

Potatoes 

Beef 

Thomback 

Purflane 

Buck  venifon 

FiJb. 

SaHafy 

Lamb 

Carp 

Cod 

F'egetahUs* 
Artichokes 

Scorzoner» 

Muttoa 

Sorrel 

Veal 

Cray.fiih 

Sallad 

Radiihrs 

Eels 

Beans 

Poultry. 

Haddock 

Cabbage 

Fruit. 

Chickens 

Herrings 

Carrots 

Apples 

Ducklings 

Lobfters 

Cauliflowers 

Apricots 
Cherries 

Fowls 

Mackarcl 

Celery 

Green  gcefc 

Mullet 

ChervU 

Goofeberries 

Leverets 

Pike 

^  Cucumbers 

Melons 

Pigeons 

Prawns 

'  Endive 

Nedarines 

Plovers 

Plaice 

Finochia 

Peaches 

Pullets 

Salmon 

Kidney  beans 

Plums 

Rabbits 

Scate 

Mufhrooms 

Rafpberries 

Turkey  pouts 

Soles 

Peafe 

Strawberries 

DINNERS    OF    TWO    COURSES. 


Fir^  Courfe. 

Soup  with  artichoke  bottoms^ 
removed  with  crimp  cod* 

Young  potatoes. 


A  breaft  of  veal 
ragoo'd. 
Anchovy  iauce. 
Swine's  cheek  boiled. 

Plain  butter. 
Lamb's  feet  wi^ 
mufiard.  Leg  of  mutton  roafled, 

with  ftewed  cucumbers. 


Venifon  pafly. 
Sallad. 


Beef-fteaks 
^-la-mode. 
Parfley  fauce. 
Windfor  beans. 
Shrimp  fauce. 
Giblets 
ftewed. 


Trifle. 

Green  gages. 
Artichoke  bottoms 
forced. 
Peaches. 
Cuftardt. 


Second  Courfe. 
Two  ducklings  roafted* 

Cray-fi(h. 

Apricot  tart. 

Potted  char. 

Leveret  roafted. 


Flummery." 

Apricots. 
Ragoo  mille. 

Melon. 
Italian  cream. 

DIN- 


94 


Ketchup,  or  catchup* 


DINNERS    OF    THREl    COURSE  $• 


Breaft  of  veal 
^-la«l)rai{e. 

VenifoD  pafty. 
Chickens. 


Stewed  peafe. 
Sweetbreads. 
Cii4ard«» 


Apricoti. 

Craw-fifh 
ragoo'd* 

Jeruialcxn 
artichokes* 


Flrft  Courfe. 

Mackarel,  &c« 

Tongue  and 
turnips. 

Herb  foup. 

Boiled  gopfe  and 
flawed  red  cabbage. 

Trout  boiled. 

Second  Courfe^ 

Roaft  turkey. 
Apricot  tart. 
Jellies. 
Green  codlin  tart. 
Roafled  pigeons. 

7hird  Courfe. 

FricalTee  of  rabbits. 
Pains  i-la*Duchefle. 

Morel  cherry 
tart. 

Apricot 
puffs. 

Lamb  fiones. 


Pulpeton. 

Neck  of  Tenifon* 

Mutton 
cutlets. 


Blanc  mange 

FricalTee  of  rabbits. 

Blaized  pippins. 


Forced  cucumbers. 

Lobfter  ^-la* 
braife. 

Green  gage 
plums. 


K. 


KETCHUP,    or   CATCHUP* 

Take  two  quarts  of  ftrong  ftale  beer,  and  half  a 
pound  of  anchovies,  walh  them  cleans  cloves  and 
mace,  of  each  a  quarter  of  an  ounce  5    a  race  or  wo 

2  of 


LAMB.  9S 

of  ginger,  half  a  pound  of  fliallots,  and  a  pint  of  flap 
mulhrooms,  well  boiled  and  pickled.  Boil  all  thefe  over 
a  flow  fire  till  one  half  is  confumed ;  then  run  it  through 
a  flannel  bag :  let  it  (land  till  it  is  quite  cold>  then  put 
It  up  in  a  bottle,  and  ftop  it  clofc* 

One  fpoonful  of  this  to  a  pint  of  melted  butter 
gives  both  tafte  and  colour  above  all  other  ingredients ; 
and  gives  the  moft  agreeable  relifli  to  fifh  fauce. 

It  is  eftecmed  by  many  to  exceed  what  is  brought 
from  India,  and  will  keep  twenty  years. 

Ketchup  of  Mujhrooms.  Fill  a  ftewpan  foil  of  the 
large  flap  muflirooms,  and  the  tops. of  thofe  that  are 
commonly  wiped  for  pickling ;  fet  it  on  a  gentle  fire, 
with  a  handful  of  fait  i  they  will  yield  a  great  ddal  of  li- 
quor :  flj-ain  it,  and  add  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  fliallots, 
two  cloves  of  garlick,  pepper,  ginger,  cloves,  mace, 
and  a  bay  leaf.  Boil  and  fcum  it  very  well,  let  it  fland 
till  it  is  quite  cold,  bottle  it,  and  fliop  it  clofe. 


L. 

LAMB. 

In  chufing  lamb,  you  muft  attend  to  the  following 
particulars : — If  the  eyes  of  a  lamb's  head  be  wrinkled, 
or  funk  in,  it  is  ftale ;  on  the  contrary,  when  frefli  and 
lively,  it  is  new  killed  and  fwect.  In  a  fore-quarter, 
the  neck  vein  fliould  be  of  a  bright  flcy-blue ;  for  if  in- 
clined to  green  or  yellow,  the  meat  is  generally  tainted- 
In  a  hind-quarter,  if  the  knuckle  be  limber,  and  there 

be 


5^  LAMB. 

be  a  faint  fmcU  under  the  kidney,  you  may  depend  upon 
its  being  ftalc :  the  contrary  denotes  goodnefs.  And  in 
chufing  houfe-lamb,  always  feleft  that  which  is  very  fat 
and  plump. 

Todrefs  a  Lamb'j  Head.  Boil  the  head  and  pluck  ten- 
der, but  do  not  let  the  liver  be  too  much  done ;  riien 
hack  the  head  crofs  and  crofs  with  a  knife  \  grate  fomc 
nutmeg  over  it,  and  lay  it  in  a  dilh  before  a  good  fire ; 
grate  ibme  crumbs  of  bread,  fome  fweet  herbs  rubbed, 
a  little  lemon-peel  chopped  fine,  a  very  little  pepper  and 
falc,  and  bafte  it  with  a  litde  butter  \  then  throw  a  little 
flour  over  it,  and  juft  as  it  is  browned,  do  the  fame  j  bafte 
it,  and  dredge  it.  Take  half  the  liver,  the  lights,  the 
heart  and  tongue,  chop  them  very  fmall,  with  fix  or 
eight  ipoonRils  of  gravy,  or  water  ^  but  firft  fhake  ibme 
flour  over  the  meat^  and  ftir  it  together,  then  put  in  the 
gravy,  or  water,  a  good  piece  of  butter  rolled  in  a  little 
flour,  a  litde  pepper  and  fait,  and  what  runs  from  the 
head  in  the  difh ;  fimmcr  all  together  a  few  minutes,  and 
add  half  a  ipoonfiil  of  vinegar  j  pour  it  into  your  dilh, 
lay  the  head  in  the  middle  of  the  mince^meat  \  have 
ready  the  other  half  of  the  liver  cut  thjn,  with  fojne  lUces 
of  bacon  broiled,  and  lay  round  the  head,  Qar^ifh  ^^ 
difli  with  lemon,  an4  feqd  it  tp  ta^le, 

Another  w(xy.  Wafh  the  head  very  clean,  take  ^hc 
black  part  from  the  eyes,  and  the  gall  from  the  liver ; 
lay  the  head  in  warm  water ;  boil  the  lights,  heart,  {uk} 
part  of  the  liver  ^  chop  and  flour  them,  and  tofs  them 
up  in  a  faucepan,  with  fome  gravy,  ketchup,  a  litde 
pepper^  fait,  lemon-juice,  and  a  fpoonful  of  cream  ; 
boil  the  head  very  white,  lay  it  in  the  middle  of  the  difli, 
the  mince-meat  round  \x  y  the  other  part  of  the  liver 

fried. 


LAMB.  ^7 

fried^  with  ibme  very  fmall  bits  of  bacon  on  dye  mince- 
tneat^  and  the  brains  fried  in  little  cakes,  and  laid  on 

,  the  rim  of  the  diih,  with  fome  crilp  parfley  put  be- 
tween/ Pour  a  little  plain  nnelted  butter  over  the  head* 
Lamb's  Heads  with  Par/ley  juice.  Provide  two  heads 
of  houfe*lambs,  take  out  the  under  jaw-bones,  and  *the 
bone  in  the  neck;  cut  out  the  eyes,  and  chop  off  the 
tioftrils  i  walh  them  well,  and  let  them  lay  in  water  in 
hour,  blanch  them  well,  put  them  into  a  little  foup 
pot,  pour  enough  water  to  cover  them,  ikim  it  well, 
and  feafbn  with  an  onion,  carrot,  a  bunch  of  herbs  and 
pariley,  whole  pepper,  and  mace;  to  pncferve  chdr 
whitenels,  you  muft  put  in  a  bit  of  butter  and  Hour  milt- 
ed, a  diced  lemon,  and  a  morfcl  of  fuct;  let  them  boil 
gently  till  very  tender,  and  provide  yourTauce  widi  a 
ladle  of  broth  well  feafoned,  dafh  in  a  glafs  of  white 
wine,  a  bit  of  butter  and  flour  to  thicken  it,  pepper, 
felt,  and  nutmeg  j  provide  fome  juice  of  parfley,  boil 
all  a  few  minutes,  dilh  up  your  heads,  taking  the  IkuU 
bones  off  with  the  point  of  your  knife,  peel  the  tongues, 
and  take  care  not  to  break  the  brains  ;  (queeze  in  the 
juice  of  lernon  or  orange,  and  ferve  them  up. 

Sheep  or  lambs  trotters  are  frequendy  done  in  the  - 

\        fame  manner,  or  \vith  a  brown  fauce  j  and  make  a  pretty 
dilh. 

Lamb*s  Head,  Pontiff  Sauce.  Take  a  lamb's  head, 
about  three  parts  boiled,  chop  fome  muflirooms,  and 
fat  livers  cut  in  dice ;  put  them  in  a  ftewpan  with  a  little 
cullis  and  white  wine,  a  faggot  of  fwcct  herbs,  a  little 

» 

chopped  Ihallots,  pepper  and  fait  5  cut  the  tongue  in 

I        dice,  which  you  mix  with  the  faucej  then  take  the  brains 

Vol.  IL  O  out 


' — t.  «P  V       * 


9«  LAMB. 

out  of  the  head,  put  the  head  into  the  ragoo  or  fauce; 
cover  it  with  the  brains  cut  in  dices;  bafte  them  with 
a  little  of  the  fauce,  bread  crumbs,  and  melted  butter; 
bake  in  the  oven  till  of  a  good  colour;  fcrve  with  Pontiff 
Sauce. — Sec  Sauces. 

Tojiew  tf  Lamb's  Head.  Wafh  the  head  and  pick  it 
very  clean.  Lay  it  in  water  for  an  hour,  take  out 
the  brains,  and  carefully  extraft  the  bones,  the  tongue, 
and  eyes ;  but  be  careful  to  avoid  breaking  the  meat, 
.Take  two  pounds  of  veal,  two  of  beei^fuet,  a  very  lit- 
tle thyme,  a  good  piece  of  lemon-peel  minced,  a  nut- 
meg grated,  and  two  anchovies:  chop  them  well  toge- 
ther, grate  two  ftale  rolls,  and  mix  all  with  the  yolks  of 
four  eggs.  Save  enough  of  this  meat  to  make  about 
twertty  balls.  Take  half  a  pint  of  frefti  mufhrooms, 
clean  peeled  and  walhed,  the  yolks  of  fix  eggs  chopped, 
half  a  pint  of  oyfters  clean  waftied,  or  pickled  cockles* 
Mix  all  thefe  together;  but  firft  ftew  your  oyfters,  and 
put  to  them  two  quarts  of  gravy,  with  a  blade  or  two  of 
mace.  Tie  the  head  with  packthread,  cover  it  dole, 
and  let  it  ftew  two  hours.  While  this  is  doing,  beat  up 
the  brains  with  fome  lemon- peel  cut  fine,  a  litde  chopped 
parfley,  half  a  nutmeg  grated,  and  the  yolk  of  an  egg.  Fry 
the  brains  in  litde  cikes  in  boiling  dripping,  and  fry  the 
balls,  and  keep  them  both  hot.  Strain  the  gravy  the 
head  was  ftewed  in,  and  put  to  it  half  an  ounce  of  truf- 
fles and  morels,  and  a  few  mufhrooms,  and  boil  all  to- 
gether; then  put  in  the  reft  of  the  brains  that  are  not 
fried,  and  ftew  them  together  for  a  minute  or  two.  Pour 
this  over  the  head,  lay  die  fried  brains  and  balls  round 
ir,  and  gamifh  with  lemon, 

2i 


LAMB.  99 

t 

7b  font  a  Leg  of  Lamb.  Carefully  take  out  all  the 
nieat^  leaving  the  (kin  whole,  and  the  fat  on  it.  Make 
the  lean  you  cut  out  into  a  force-meat  thus :— To  two 
pounds  of  meat,  add  two  pounds  of  beef  fuet,  Ikinned 
and  cut  fmall;  beat  it  in  a  marble  mortar  till  very  fine; 
and  then  mix  it  with  four  fpoonfuls  of  grated  bread,  eight 
or  ten  cloves,  five  or  fix  large  blades  of  mace  dried  and 
beaten  fine,  half  a  large  nutmeg  grated,  a  little  pepper 
and  fait,  a  little  lemon -peel  cut  fine,  a  very  little  thyme, 
fbme  parfley  and  four  eggs.  Mix  all  together,  put  it 
into  the  flcin  in  the  fame  fliape  it  was;  few  it  up,  roaft 
it,  and  bade  it  with  butter.  Cut  the  loin  into  fteaks,  and 
fry  it  nicely  j  lay  the  leg  on  the  difti,  and  the  loin  round 
it,  with  ftewed  cauliflowers  all  round  upon  the  loini 
pour  a  pint  of  good  gravy  into  the  difti,  and  fend  it  to 
table  5   the  cauliflower  may  be  omitted. 

Leg  of  Lamb  boiled,  and  Loin  fried.  Cut  your  leg 
fi-om  the  loin,  boil  the  leg  three  quarters  of  an  hour, 
cut  the  loin  in  handfome  fteaks,  beat  them  with  a  clea- 
ver,  and  fry  them  a  good  brown ;  then  ftew  them  a  lit- 
tle in  ftrong  gravy  j  put  your  leg  on  the  dilh,  and  lay. 
your  fteaks  round  it;  pour  on  your  gravy,  lay  round 
lumps  of  ftewed  fpinach,  and  crifped  parlley  on  every 
ftcak.     Send  it  to  the  table  with  goofeberry-fauce  in  a 

i  boat. 

!  Another  TVay.     Let  the  leg  be  boiled  very  white.     Cut 

the  loin  into  fteaks,  dip  thenri  into  a  few  crumbs  of 
bread  and  eggs,  fry  them  nice  and  brown ;  boil  a  good 
deal. of  fpinach  and  lay  in  the  difh;  put  the  leg  in  the 
middle,  lay  the  loin  round  it,  cut  an  orange  in  four, 
and  garnifh  the  difh,  and  have  butter  in  a  cup.     Some; 

O  2  like 


joo  LAM      B. 

like  the  fpinach  boiled^  then  drained,  put  into  a  faucc- 
pan  with  a  good  piece  of  butter,  and  ftewed. 

^ofry  a  Loin  of  Lamb.  Cut  your  lamb  into  chopsj 
rub  it  over  on  both  fides  with  the  yolk  of  an  egg,  and 
fprinkle  fome  bread  crumbs,  a  little  parfley,  thymcj 
marjoram,  and  winter  iavory,  chopped  very  fine,  and  a 
little  lemon-peel  chopped  finei  fry  it  in  butter  of  a 
-nice  light  brown,  and  fend  it  up  in  a  difh  by  itfelf.  Gar- 
nifli  with  a  good  deal  of  fried  parfley. 

Or,  you  may  drefs  lamb,  chops  as  above,  and  put 
them  round  in  a  difh,  as  clofe  as  you  can,  leaving  a 
hole  in  the  middle,  into  which  put  a  fauce  made  with  all 
forts  of  fweet  herbs,  and  parfley,  chopped  fine,  and 
ftewed  in  Ipmc  thick  good  gravy. 

7b  ragoo  a  for€  Quarter  of  LsAMb.  Cut  off  the  knuc- 
kle  bone,  take  off  the  flcin,  lard  it  all  over  with  bacon, 
arid  fry  it  of  a  nice  light  brown,  then  put  it  in  a  flewpan, 
and  juft  cover  it  with  mutton  gravy,  a  bunch  of  (wcet 
herbs,  fome  pepper,  fait,  beaten  mace,  and  a  little 
whole  pepper ;  cover  it  clofe,  and  let  it  ftew  for  half  aa 
hour ;  pour  out  the  liquor,  and  take  care  to  keep  the. 
lamb  hoti  ftrain  off  the  gravy,  and  have  ready  half  a 
■pint  of  oyfters  fried  brown,  pour  all  the  fat  from  them, 
add  them  to  the  gravy,  with  two  fpoonfuls  of  red  wine,  a 
few  muftirooms,  and  a  bit  of  butter  rolled  in  flour  j  boil 
all  together,  with  the  juice  of  half  a  lemon;  lay  the, 
lamb  in  the  difti,  and  pour  the  fauce  over  it. 

Afore  garter  of  Lamb  in  caul.  Bone  a  fore  quarter 
of  lamb,  taking  care  not  to  cut  the  flcin.  Make  a  force- 
meat thus: — Cut  four  onions  in  dice,  and  fry  them  ii^ 
lard  or  butter;  when  near  done,  add  a  little  chopped 
Ihallots,  parfley,  pepper  and  fait  to  your  tafl:e,  the  yolks 

of 


L      A     M     B«  101 

of  five  eggs,  and  half  a  pint  of  cream,  fimmer  over 
the  fire  without  boiling  till  it  becomes  pretty  thick;  put 
this  force-meat  in  the  lamb,  and  faften  it  well ;  roll  it  ir^ 
a  caul  and  roaft  it,  bafting  with  butter,  or  a  thin  batter 
and  bread  crumbs,  When  done,  and  of  a  good  colour^^ 
fervc  witK  what  fauce  you  pleaie. 

It  may  alfo  be  done  without  caul  or  larding. 

7b  force  a  hind  Quarter  af  House  Lamb.  Cut  ofF 
the  flank,  and  with  a  knife  raife  the  thick  part  of  the 
meat  from  the  bone.  Make  a  force-meat  with  ibme 
fuct,  a  few  fcaldcd  oyfters  cut  fmall,  fome  grated  bread. 
It  little  beaten  mace,  pepper  and  fait,  mixed  up  with  the 
yolks  of  two  eggs;  ftufF  it  with  this  under  where  the 
meat  is  raifed  up,  and  under  the  kidney.  Let  it  be  half 
rpafted,  then  put  it  in  a  large  ftewpan,  with  a  quart  of 
mutton  gravy;  cover  it,  and  let  it  ftcw  very  gently. 
When  it  is  enough,  keep  it  hot,  fkim  off  the  fat  and 
ftrain  the  gravy ;  add  to  it  a  glafs  of  Madeira,  one 
fp^3onful  of  walnut  ketchup,  half  a  lemon,  a  little  kyan, 
half  a  pint  of  ftewed  oyfters,  with  a  piece  .of  butter  rol- 
led in  flour;  pour  this  over  the  lamb. 

Two  hind  ^jfftrters  q/Lam^  with  Spinach.  Take  your 
two  quarters  of  lamb,  trufs  your  knuckles  in  nicely,  and 
lay  it  in  foak  two  or  three  hours  in  ibme  milk,  corian- 
der feed,  a  litde  fait,  two  or  three  onions,  and  parfley  j 
put  it  boiling  in  but  little  water,  flcim  it  well,  put  in 
fom6  floUr  and  water  well  mixed,  a  lemon  or  two  pared 
and  fliced,  a  bit  of  fuet,  and  a  litde  bunch  of  onions 
and  parfley;  ftir  it  well  from  the  bottom,  and  boil  it 
gently,  and  thefe  ingredientSv  will  make  it  as  white  as  a 
curd.  Boil  your  fpinach,  put  to  it  about  a  pint  of 
9ream,  a,  bit  of  butter,  a  little  pepper,  fait,  and  nutmeg; 


I02  LAM      B. 

ftir  it  over  a  flow  (love  till  it  is  of  a  nice  confiftencc, 
iqueeze  in  the  juice  of  a  lemon,  pour  it  into  the  difh, 
and  lay  your  lamb  upon  il,  after  draining  it  from  fat  and 
water,  and  take  off  any  of  your  feafonings  that  may 
chance  to  hang  to  it, 

A  neck  of  veal  may  be  done  in  the  fame  way,  taking 
(he  chine  bone  off,  and  trimming  it  neady. 

Baked  Lamb  and  Rice.  Half  roaft  a  neck  or  loin  of 
Iamb,  then  cut  it  into  fteaks;  take  half  a  pound  of  rice 
boiled  in  a  quart  of  water  ten  minutes,  put  it  into  a  quart 
of  gootl  gravy,  with  two  or  three  blades  of  mace  and  a 
little  nutmeg.  Do  it  over  a  flove  or  flow  fire  rill  the 
rice  begins  to  be  thick  j  then  take  it  off,  ftir  in  a  pound 
of  butter,  and  when  that  is  quite  melted,  ftir  in  the  yolks 
rf  fix  eggs,  firft  beat;  then  take  a  difti  and  butter  it  all 
over  I  put  a  little  pepper  and  fait  over  the  fteaks ;  dip 
them  in  a  little  melted  butter,  lay  them  into  the  difts 
pour  the  gravy  which  comes  out  of  theni  over  them,  and 
then  the  rice ;  beat  the  yolks  of  three  eggs,  and  pour  all 
over;   bake  it  better  than  half  an  hour. 

Shoulder  ()/Lamb,  Dauphin  fajhion.  Bone  a  ftioulder 
of  Iamb  all  to  the  fhank  bone;  make  a  force-meat  of  fat 
livers  chopped,  mufhrooms  or  truffles,  fcraped  lard, 
chopped  parfley  and  fhallots,  pepper,  falt>  and  three 
yolks  of  eggs ;  mix  it  well,  and  put  it  in  the  Ihoulder; 
faften  it  well  to  hinder  the  force-meat  from  getting  out ; 
then  put  it  in  a  pan  of  much  its  bignefs,  with  a  little 
broth  and  white  wine,  a  faggot  of  parfley  and  fweet 
herbs,  pepper,  fait,  and  flices  of  bacon  over:  ftew  it  flowly 
till  done,  and  fcrve  it  upon  ftewed  fpinach,  or  any  fort 
pf  garden  greens,  ragoo,  or  lauce,  you  think  proper. 

S}oouldef 


L      A      M.     Bi  icj 

Shoulder  of  Lamb>  Neighbour  fajhion.  Prepare  the 
Jhoulder  as  the  preceding  j  make  a  force-meat  of  cold 
boiled  or  roafted  fowls,  calfs  udder  or  fuet,  bread  crumbs 
foaked  in  cream,  chopped  parfley,  fhallots,  pepper,  fait, 
and  four  yolks  of  eggs  J  then  fill  the  fhoulder  with  it, 
and  make  it  as  round  as  polfiblei  faften  it  well,  that  the 
force-meat  may  not  get  out;  lard  it,  and  ftew  it  in  broth, 
with  a  faggot  of  fweet  herbs.  When  done,  ftrain  the 
fauce  through  a  lawn  fieve,  reduce  it  to  a  glaze,  and 
glaze  the  larded  part.  Serve  with  what  fauce  or  ragoo 
you  pleafe. 

Lamb's  Sweetbreads.  Blanch  your  fweetbreads,  and 
put  into  cold  water  awhile,  put  them  into  a  ftewpan 
with  a  ladle  of  broth,  pepper,  fait,  a  fmall  bunch  of 
green  onions  and  parfley,  and  a  blade  of  mace ;  flir  in 
a  bit  of  butter  with  flour,  and  ftew  all  about  half  an 
hour.  Make  ready  a  liafon  of  two  or  three  eggs  and 
cream,  w.ith  a  little  minced  parfley  and  nutmeg;  put  in 
tops  of  afparagus  that  you  have  ready  boiled,  and 
pour  in  your  liafon,  and  take  care  it  does  not  curdle; 
add  fome  juice  of  lemon  or  orange,  and  fend  it  to  table. 
You  may  ufe  peas,  young  goofeberries,  or  kidney 
beans  for  this,  and  all  make  a  pretty  difh. 

A  Dijfj  (/Lamb's  Bits.  Skin  and  fplit  the  ftones,  lay 
them  on  a  dry  cloth  with  the  fweetbreads  and  liver, 
dredge  tliem  well  with  flour,  and  fry  them  in  boiling 
lard  or  butter  a  light  brown;  then  lay  them  on  a  fieve 
to  drain;  fry  a  good  quantity  of  parfley,  lay  your  bits 
on  the  difli,  and  the  parfley  in  lumps  over  it.  Pour 
melted  butter  round  them. 

Iloiife 


td4  LAMPREYS. 

House  or  Grass  Lamb  Steaku  Scafbn  them  with 
pepper^  fAlc^  nutmeg,  grated  lemon  peel^  and  parfley 
chopped  (but  dip  them  firft  in  egg) ;  fry  them  quick, 
thicken  fome  good  gravy,  add  a  very  litde  red  wine, 
ketchup,  and  ibme  oyfters;  boil  thefe  together,  put  in 
the  fteaks;  juft  heat  them.  Palates  nuy  be  added  dew- 
ed tender,  force-meat  balls  and  hard  eggs. 

This  is  a  very  good  difli,  and  convenient  when  poul- 
try is  dear. 

To  fry  a  Neck  or  Loin  of  Lamb.     Cut  it  into  thin 
fteaks,  beat  them  with  a  rolling-pin,  fry  them  in  half  a 
pint  of  ale,  feaibn  them  with  a  little  fait,  and  cover  them 
dofe.    When  enough,  take  them  out  of  the  pan,  lay 
them  in  a  plate  before  the  Hre  to  keep  hot,  and  pour  all 
out  of  the  pan  into  a  bafon;  then  put  in  half  a  pint  of 
white  wine,  a  few  capers,  the  yolks  of  two  eggs  beat, 
with  a  little  nutmeg  and  a  little  fait;  add  to  this  the 
liquor  they  were  fried  in,   and  keep  ftirring  it  one  way 
all  the  time  till  thick,  then  put  in  the  lamb,  keep  (ba- 
king the  pan  for  a  minute  or  two,  lay  the  fteaks  in  the 
dilh,  pour  the  fauce  over  them,  and  have  fome  parfley 
in  a  plate  before  the  fire  to  crifp;  garnifh  with  that  and 
lemon.      "" 


LAMPREYS. 

To  drefs  a  Lamprey.  Cleanfe  the  fifli  from  flime 
well  with  hot  water,  faving  their  blood ;  then  cut  them 
in  pieces  and  ftew  them  in  an  earthen  pipkin  with  white 
wine  J  feafon  with  fait,  pepper,  nutmeg,  burnt  butter,  a 
bunch  of  fweet  herbs  and  bay  leaf  5  then  put  to  them 

their 


LARKS.  10^ 

d^eir  blood  ^kich  ^ou  fk^ed,  with  a  little  fried  flour  and 
capers^  atid  giu-nifh  them  with  flices  of  lemons. 

Lamprey  withJUreet  Sauce:  Having  as  before  clea- 
red theih  from  the  (lime,  iiew  them  in  red  wiiie  with  falc» 
pepper,  fugar,  cinnamon,  burnt  butter  i  adding  fome  le- 
mon juice  and  a  piece  bf  green  lemon>  when  you  fcrvc 
them  up  to  a  table: 

To  make  a  Lamprey  Pye.  The  lampreys  having  been 
firft  weU  cleanfed  from  their  iOime,  dnd  r^ferved  their 
blood,  put  it  into  a  pye  of  fine  pafte^  feafoned  with  fait, 
pepper,  beaten  cinnamon,  fugar,  currants^  and  candy'd 
lemon-peel ;  b^e  it  in  a  moderately  heated  oven,  and 
Vrficii  it  is  half  baked^  put  in  the  blood  and  a  glais  of 
white  wine ;  and  before  you  ferve.  it  lip  put  in  fome  le- 
mon juice. 

To  pot  LaMpreVs.  Seafon  them  with  falt^  pepper  and 
nutmeg ;  add  a  large  onion  ftuck  with  doVes,  and  three 
or  four  ipoohfuls  of  daret  j  put  it  in  a  pot,  cover  it  with 
butter,  and  bake  it ;  when  baked  take  it  out,  and  ftrain 
the  liquor  frbita  it ;  pour  oflF  the  clear  butter,  and  put- 
ting it  into  a  fit  pan  to  keep  it>  add  to  it  as  much  more 
as  will  cover  the  filh. 


i-M 


L    A    R    K    Sw 

To  roafi  LARks.  Put  a  fmall  bird  fpit  through  them, 
and  tie  them  on  another ;  roaft  them,  and  all  the  time 
they  are  roafting,  keep  batting  them  very  gently  with 
butter,  and  fprinkle  crumbs  of  bread  on  them  till  they 
are  almoft  done  j  then  let  tliem  brown  before  you  take 
them  up. 

Vol.  M  P  The 


lo^  Lark    8. 

• 

The  bcft  way  of  making  cntmbs  of  bread  is  to  rub 
them  dirgugh  a  fine  cullender,  and  put  a  little  butter 
into  a  ftcwptn  j  mdt  it^  put  in  your  crumbs  of  bread, 
jmd  keep  them  ftirring  till  they  are  of  a  light  brown  $ 
put  them  on  a  fieve  to  drain  a  few  minutes  j  lay  your 
larks  in  a  dilh,  and  the  crumbs  all  round,  zkaoA  as  hi^ 
as  the  larks,  with  plain  butter  in  a  cup,  and  fomc  gravy 

in  another. 

A  Rag0o  of  Larks.    Fry  your  larks  with  an  onion 
ftuck  with  cloves,  a  few  truffles  and  mulhrooms ;  pour 
oflf  the  fat;  Ihake  over  die  larks,  &c.  a  little  flour ;  put 
to  them  fomc  good  gravy  5  ftew  them  till  they  are  c- 
nough.    If  there  is  any  fat,  fkim  it  off.    Add  chopped 
parfley,  lemon-juice,  pepper,  and  fait,  if  ncceffary. 
Other  fmall  birds  may  be  drefled  in  the  lame  maniien 
I. ARKS,  Pear  fajhian.    Trofs  diem  chrfc,  and  cui  off 
ibctlegs;  feafon  them  with  fak«  pepper,  cloves  and  mace> 
make  a  farce-meat  thus  j7--Take  a  veal  fweetbnwi^  a& 
much  beef  fuct,  a  few  morels  and  mufhrooms ;  chc^- 
all  fine  together,  ibme  crumbs  of  bread,  and  a  few  Iwect 
herbs,  a  litde  lemon  peel  cut  fmall ;  mix  all  together 
widi  the  yolk  of  an  egg,  wrap  up  the  lyks  in  lorce^meat 
and  (hape  them  like  a  pear  j  ftick  one  leg  in  the  top, 
like  the  ftalk  of  a  pear,  rub  them  over  with  the  yolk  of 
art  egg  and  crumbs  oi  bread ;.  bake  them  ii),a  gende 
oven,  ferve  them  without  fauce »  or  they  make  a  good 
garniih  to  a  very  fine  difli. 
You  may  ufe  veal,  if  you  have  not  a  fweetbrcad. 
Larks  a-la-Franfoife.    Trufs  yotir  larks  widi  the  le^ 
acrofs,  and  put  a  fagc  leaf  over  their  breafts ;  put  them 
upon  a  long  thin  ikewer  i  between,  every  lark  put  ^ 

piece 


LAUNDRY.MAID,  107 

piece  of  thin  bacon,  then  tie  the  ikewer  to  a  Ipit,  and 
roall  them  at  a  briflc  clear  fire ;  bafte  them  with  butter^ 
and^ftrew  over  them  fome  crumbs  of  bread  mixed  with 
flour ;  fry  (bme  bread  crumbs  of  a  fine  brown  in  butter. 
Lay  the  larks  round  the  dilh|  the  bread  crumbs  in  th^ 
imiddle, 


L  A  U  N  D  R  Y-M  A  I  D. 

To  what  we  have  already  laid  under  the  head  of  dSwr- 
Jlarchingy  we  Ihall  add  fome  remarks  not  lefi  ufefiil  to 
this  particular  fervant,  than  to  families  in  general. 

A  copper  for  the  purpofe  of  waihtng  is  what  every  fa* 
mily  ought  to  have,  on  a  principle  of  economy,  as  it  will 
fave  almoft  two  thirds  of  the  coals  otherwife  confumcd  i 
for  if  the  ftove  draws  well,  (which  it  may  be  made  to 
do)  it  will  burn  cinders,  and  alnrtoft  every  kind  of  refufe, 
and  when  die  water  is  once  made  to  boil,  a  fmall  fire 
will  rrake  it  continue.  Care  (hould  however  be  takea 
to  keep  the  copper  fufficiendy  full  of  water,  left  the  fire 
fhould  rife  on  the  fides  and  fcorch  the  linen. 

Clear  water,  and  plenty  of  it,  is  indifpenfably  neceflary, 
particularly  for  feconding  and  rinfing  cloaths ;  but  as 
rain  and  river  water  is  often  thick  or  cloudy,  care  fliould 
be  taken  to  have  it  properly  fctded,  by  putting  it  into 
vcffcls  a  day  or  two  previous  to  your  walhing. 

The  Laundry-maid  ought  to  be  very  corrcft  in  couht 
ting,  and  fctting  down  the  various  articles  fhe  receives, 
and  to  return  whatever  has  been  delivered  to  her.  It 
will  be  unneceflary  to  caution  an  honeft  fervjhit  againft 
being  wafteful  of  foap,  tearing  th^  linen,  &c.  either  in 

.  P  2  wafliing^ 


io8  LAITNDRY-MAID. 

waihing>  or  drying  it  upon  Hedges  and  fruit  trees ;  cmt 
ftirring  the  linen  in  the  copper  with  fticks  that  arc  fpUnr 
tered  or  hav:e  nails  in  them  3  or  to  {uSet  it  to  mildew,  by 
laying  too  long  undried  ojr  unirpned;  the.  neceflity  of  thefe 
things  is  toQ  obvious  to  Qeed  reniark  i  but  tt^e  are 
fome  other  obfervations  worth  attending  to. 

To  take  out  Iron  moulds  before  wafhing  is  a  part  of 
her  buflnefs  that  demands  attention,  and  die  beft  ixiethod 
of  doing  it  is,  to  hold  the  iron  mould  over  the  fume  of 
boiling  water  for  fome  time,  then  pour  on  the  (pot  a 
little  juice  of  forrel  and  a  litde  fait,  and  when  the  cloth 
has  thoroughly  imbibed  the  juice,  wafti  it  in  lee. 

To  take  out  Stains  of  Oil.  Take  Windfor  foap  fhaved 
thin,  put  it  into  a  bottle  half  full  of  lee,  throw  in  the  fizc 
of  a  nut  of  fal  s^mrnoniac,  a  little  cabbage  juice,  two 
yolks  of  new  laid  eggs,  and  ox-gall  at  difcretion,  and 
laftly,  an  ounce  of  powdered  tartar:  then  cork  thq 
bottle,  and  expqfe  it  to  the  heat  of  the  noon  day  fun  four 
days,  at  the  expiration  of  which  time  it  becomes  fit  for 
life.  Pour  this  liq\ior  on  the  ftains,  and  rub  it  w^U  on 
both  fides  of  the  cloth ;  then  wafh  the  ftains  quickly  in 
clear  water,  with  Caftile  foap,  and  when  the  cloth  i^ 
dryj  they  will  no  longer  appear. 

When  linen  is  ftained  by  claret  or  other  r^d  wine^ 
foak  the  ftained  part;  in  hot  milk  three  or  four  times  a 
day  for  feveral  days.  Or  a  little  fait  rubbed  on  the  part 
immediately,  will  prevent  the  ftain  from  becoming  in- 
j;urious,  and  it  may  afterwards  be  wafhed-  in  hot  milk. 

Spots  of  Ink  will  abfolutely  ruin  the  fipeft  linen :— • 
Lemon  juice,  and  the  effential  fait  of  lemon,  will  by  np 
means  anfwpr  the  purpofe  of  taking  them  out :  the  Ipots 
will  indeed  difappear,  but  the  maJignity  of  the  ink  ftill 

■V.  .-.4.  ^         I 

remains 


tAUNDRY-MAXD.  tof 

remains  to  corrode  the  lin^  and  finatty  produce  a  hole ) 
\t  has  been  recommended  in  this  cafe  to  lay  the  ftained 
part  of  the  linen  in  frelh  chamber-lye,  for  three  or  four 
days  togetherjj  rubbing  the  ftaiped  part  every  time  you 
change  the  lye.  But  the  nK)ft  efiedhial  way  is  to  take  si 
mould  candle,  or  ion^c  very  p^re  tallow^  melt  it,  wd  dip 
the  fpotted  part  of  the  linen  in  the  melted  tallow,  then 
put  it  to  the^alh,  vhen  it  will  corne  peifeftly  wbifte,  nor 
^ill  there  CYcr  \^  any  hole  ir\  the  fpQtte^  part.  This  14 
given  from  experience. 

When  linen  has  hctn  fcorcied,  boil  two  ounces  of  ful** 
ler's  earth,  and  the  fame  quantity  of  Caftile  ibap,  in  half 
a  pint  of  white  wine  vinegar,  and  a  quart  of  water,  mth 
^wo  onions  quartered  and  h4lf  an  ounce  of  hen  dung,  till 
it  begins  to  grow  ftickifh  i  then  fet  it  by  to  cool,  and 
^hen  it  is  in  a  fort  of  jelly,  put  in  a  little  (larch  and  ^hite 
y^ine,  fpread  it  upon  the  fcorch'd  part  o^  the  %eo,  and 
if  it  be  but  flighdy  done,  it  will  foon  recoycr  it ;  but  if 
the  linen  is  ftained,  take  two  ounces  of  Caftile  {bap,  boil^ 
^t  to  a  jelly  in  a  quart  of  miUc,  preventing  it  from  curd^ 
ling;  fpread  it  on  as  you  do  fuller's  earth,  and  let  it  lie 
on  all  night,  and  yihttt  that  is  taken  off,  wet  the  place 
with  the  juice  of  a  lemon  and  the  ft^in^  wiy  ibon  difap- 
pear. 

The  beft  method  of  getting  up  Lace,  is  to  few  a  bit 
of  muAin  to  each  fide  of  it^  then  waih  it  among  muflins, 
9r  by  itfelf,  in  three  lathers ;  and  if  does  not  look  white, 
put  ic  into  warm  Uuttsr-milk,  and  let  it  lie  a  day,  then 
hang  it  up  to  dry  ;  and  if  it  is  not  white  enough,  you 
muft  put  it  into  fcalding  hot  butter-milk,  and  fo  let  lie 
;ill  it  is  cold  i  tjien  walh  it  out  in  two  or^three  lathers, 
;^cor4iQg  as  you  fee  occauon :  but  the  lathers  mufl'not 


no  LAUNDRY-MAID. 

he  blue ;  then  rinic  it  in  pump  water  ^  z(ict  which  pin  it 
upon  four  board  by  the  mullin  vetf  even ;  then  take 
nmAin  the  length  of  the  lace,  and  dip  it  in  water  ftardi^ 
md  ib  lay  it  upon  the  lace  till  it  is  dry ;  obferve  not  to 
ique^ze  any  of  the  ft^ch  out  of  the  muflin. 

When  the  lace  is  dry,  pick  out  die  purk  and  the  foot 
very  tenderly. 

!f  you  open  the  purls,  you  muft  make  a  round  har- 
^ifh  pillow,  and  lay  paper  on  it,  which  will  (hew  the  purls 
the  plainer ;  afterwards  lay  your  lace  upon  the  paper, 
and  with  a  long  fltmdcr  needle,  and  very  clean  hands,  you 
may  eafily  open  them,  if  they  are  well  picked  out  at  firft  ; 
after  you  have  opened  them,  lay  them  upon  the  boards 
with  a  muflin  oyer  them,  and  iron  riiem  with  an  iron 
l!ot  too  hot,  ^ 

To  do  lace  as  it  is  done  in  Holland,  you  muft  pick 
it  off  your  linen,  then  take  a  clean  piece  of  glafe,  and 
few  a  thick  piece  of  muflin  over  it  (but  let  the  glafs  be 
fijuarc)  then  roll  the  l^icc  very  even  upon  the  glafs,  and 
between  every  roll  foap  it;  when  it  is  all  foaped  and 
rolled  up,  cover  it  with  another  piece  of  thick  muilin„ 
and  let  it  lie  in  hot  water  till  the  water  is  cold,  which 
will  fbak  out  the  dirt ;  then  put  it  in  a  large  faucepan 
of  water<|  and  boil  it,  which  repeat  j  but  in  youi*  laft 
boil  you  muft  put  in  foap  enough  to  make  a  lather  ^ 
when  you  have  done  boiling  it,  lay  it  in  a  dry  cloth  to 
foak  out  the  fuds  j  when  you  perceive  the  fuds  to  be 
out  of  it,  and  it  appears  fomewhat  dry  on  the  outfide, 
rinfe  it  in  two  clear  pump  waters  with  a  litde  blue  in 
them,  and  lay  it  in  a  dry  cloth  as  before,  to  Ibak  out 
the  water  till  it  is  almoft  dry  -,  then  lay  it  in  ftargh  water 

a  very 


A  very  Uttte  whik,  and  wipe  the  ftarch  off  on  the  out* 
{ide,  and  fi^ueeze  k  not  too  hard  to  make  the  ftarck 
come  thncmgh  to  the  gkfs ;  then  dry  it  quickly,  becaufe 
if  it  is  too  long  a  dryings  it  wiU  make  it  look  yellow  2 
let  It  be  a  little,  damp  when  you  take  it  off  the  glais,  or 
it  will  ftick  one  roll  to  another,  and  be  apt  to  tear; 
then  lay  it  on  a  clean  dry  cloth,  and  pull  out  the  purb 
where  you  fee  occafion  j  if  your  lace  be  new  the  purls 
wil  open  j  next  few  it  upon  the  muflin,  and  rub  it  open 
with  a  warm  iron,  that  it  may  not  look  tumbled ;  your 
lace  will  look  white  as  fhow,  and  as  like  new  as  pof- 
iible. 

Some  have  done  them  on  a  board,  but  that  makes 
them  look  ycUow,  and  is  apt  to  iron  mould  them. 

This  is  a  very  excellent  way  to  do  any  fringes ;  but 
they  muji  not  be  ftarched. 


L  E  P  R  O  S  Y.~Sce  Scurvy. 


LIPS. 


The  lips  are  covered  with  a  delicate  Ikin,  which  be- 
comes chapped,  and  very  eafily  cracks,  elpecially.during 
frafty  weather,  or  in  a  north  wind.  A  fever,  of  an  ex- 
Ceflive  heat  in  the  bowels,  fometimes  withers  this  fkin 
too,  and  makes  it  break,  fo  as  to  fall  off  in  litde  fcales 
fike  bran.  It  alfo  happens,  very  frequently,  that  when 
you  have  been  touching  any  thing  that  is  unclean,  and 
put  your  fingers  immediately  afterwards  to  j'our  mouth, 

the 


Ill  L   1   P   S, 

the  fkin  of  the  lips  thereby  becomes  chapped  and  pitti* 
pled;  but  if  you  have  touched  any  venomous  fubftancci 
you  may  not  get  off  fo  cafy.  Drinking  immediately  af- 
ter people  who  have  any  bad  diibrder  is  very  often  the 
caufe  of  pimples  and  puftules  on  the  lips.  The  bcft  re- 
medy for  l^hich  is  a  cruft  of  bread  applied  hot  to  the 
lips. 

The  readicft  method  of  curing  fimple  diaps^  and 
pimples>  or  fcabs  of  the  lips,  is  to  rub  them  with  the 
following  pomatum : 

Take  three  ounces  of  the  fat  of  vedl  kidney,  melt  it 
over  a  gentle  fire,  then  ftraiti  it,  and  wafli  it  feveral  times 
in  water.  Put  it  again  upon  a  very  flow  fire,  with  the 
fame  quantity  of  white  wax,  two  ounces  of  the  expreflcd 
oil  of  fweet  almonds,  half  an  ounce  of  IpermaCeti,  and  a 
litde  alkanet-root,  well  bruifed.  Melt  ail  together  gent-* 
ly,  and  ftir  them  well,  till  the  alkanet  has  communicated 
its  red  colour  to  the  pomatum :  then  take  it  off  the  fire, 
and  put  it  up  in  a  gallipot. 

Or,  take  hog's  lard  waflied  in  rofe  water,  half  a  pounds 
red  rofes,  and  damaflc  rofes,  bruifed,  a  quarter  of  a  pounds 
knead  them  together,  and  let  them  lie  two  days ;  then 
melt  the  hog's  lard,  and  ftrain  it  from  the  rofes  : — add 
a  fi-clh  quantity  of  the  latter,  knead  them  in  the  hog's 
lard,  and  let  them  lie  together  two  days  as  before ;  then 
gently  fimmer  the  mixture  in  a  vapour  bath :  prefs  out 
the  lard,  and  keep  it  for  ufc. 

Either  of  the  foregoing  will  perfe6lly  anfwer  the  in- 
tention ;  and  compofitioris  of  this  kind  may  be  varied 
without  end. — 'Thcfe  falves,  however,  will  not  be  of  Icr-*^ 
vice  when  the  lips  are  pimpled  or  fcabbed  from  a  veno- 

I  mous 


L  I  VE  H   A»D  C  H  O  W.  iij 

iq^s  infed^W  i  or  £cpm  Stoking  ^er  people  \?ho  have 
anydUeafe, 

A  praf^cf  v^ry  hurtful  and  dangerous  to  tbe  lips  of 
chiUrmt  and  which  pepple  ^re  in  general  npt  fufficsenc^ 
ly  aw^re  of^  is  pvii^  therri  whittles ;  they  are  confioion* 
ly  daiubed  over  with  paint  j  every  body  plays  upon  them  i 
and  thi9ie  is  not  a  iieryant  in  the  houfe^  though  his  lips 
ve  never  To  fcabbe4>  but  muft  ufe  the  chUd's  whittle  ^ 
to  whom  it  is  given  ^gain  wet>  moft  likely  with  faliva* 
and  what  nuy  be  the  cosofequencej  it  is  e^ify  to  guefs. 

piibrdcrs  in  the  lips  are  many  times  coi3itra<3:ed  fr^n 
a  caufe  which  is  never  fufpefted,  and  yet  is  very  ww* 
mon.    We  have  a  cuftonii  when  begii^nbg  to  write 
with  a  newrmade  pen,  of  putting  th/c  point  of  it  to  our 
mouth  tt>  wet  it,  md  thereby  make  it  draw  ink  more  ea- 
sily. This  we  ought  to  take  care  of,  unleA  we  make  the. 
pen  ouriiblves,  or  are  iui£  that  the  peribn  who  made  it  is 
free  from  difcafe;  becaufe,  whoever  makes  a  pen,  always 
■wets  it,  in  order  to  try  whether  it  will  write.     It  is  true, 
he  wipes  it  ^terwards ;  bjjt  feldom  ib  well  as  to  take  off 
all  the  falivai  and  what  is  left  of  this,  though  it  be  dri«- 
ed>  or  iu  eyer  fb  fmall  a  quantity,  is  a  leavejnt  which  may 
^communicate  a  difcafe  of  the  lips,  or  any  other  contagi- 
ous iUnefs,  from  one  perfon  co  another.     This  remark 
will  be  corroborated  by  xefleftmg  on  what  ibrtqf  people 
arr  employed  in  making  pens  for  fyk. 


LIVER  and  CROW  of  an  Hoo. 

Tdce  thefe  with  the  fwcetbreads  foon  after  the  hog 

has  been  killed,  cut  the  \i^er  in  pieces,  twice  as  big  as 

Vol.  n.  Q  awal- 


114  LOBSTERS. 

a  walnut ;  but  not  in  thin  pieces,  fw  then  they  will  be- 
come hard  in  the  drcfling. 

Alfo  cut  the  crow  and  fweetbrcads  into  flips  about 
die  breadth  of  two  fingers :  then  parboil  the  pieces  of 
liver,  and  having  ready  a  thick  batter  of  flour,  water  and 
cggs>  feafoned  with  a  litdc  fait ,  and  having  alfo  fomc 
red  fagc  flired  very  fine,  grated  bread  and  beaten  pep- 
per, mix  all  thefe  latter  together ;  and  having  heated 
butter  or  lard  very  hot  in  a  frying  pan,  dip  the  crow  and 
fweetbread  in  the  batter ;  and  immediately  dip  the  pie« 
ces  of  liver  in  the  mixture  of  bread,  fage,  &c.  and  put 
them  into  the  pan. 

When  the  meat  is  enough,  fet  it  to  drain  before  the 
fire,  and  then  dip  the  bits  of  liver  into  the  batter  i  and 
after  that  into  the  crumb  bread  and  give  them  a  turn  or 
two  in  the  pan  over  a  quick  fire ;  then  drain  them  alfo, 
and  ferve  them  up  hot  with  butter  and  muftard. 


«■■ 


LOBSTERS. 

A  hen  lobflicr  is  broader  in  the  middle  of  the  tail  than 
the  cock,  but  its  claws  are  not  fo  large  j  they  are  prefe- 
rable on  account  of  the  fpawn,  particularly  when  it  is  on 
the  outfide  of  the  tail.  The  heavieft  are  the  befl:,  if 
there  be  no  water  in  them  j  it  is  befl.  to  buy  them  alivct 
but  when  boiled,  if  they  were  frcfli,  the  tail  will  fly  up 
like  a  fpring  when  opened  j  and  the  middle  of  the  tail 
will  be  full  of  hard,  reddifli  flcinned  meat* 

To  roaft  Lobsters.  Put  a  fkcwcr  into  the  vent  of  the 
tail  of  the  lobfter,  to  prevent  the  water  getting  into  the 
body  of  it,  and  put  it  into  a  pan  of  boiling  water,  with  a 
iittle  fait  in  it  i  and  if  it  be  a  large  one^  it  will  take^half 

an 


LOTION.  115 

an  hour  boiling;  then  lay  it  before  the  jfire,  and  bafte 
it'  with  butter  till  it  has  a  fine  froth.  Difli  it  up  with 
plain  melted  butter  in  a  boat.  This  is  a  better  way  than 
actually  roafting  them^  and  is  not  attended  with  half  the 
trouble. 

Another  wcy  te  r$ajl  Lobsters.  Half  boil  your  loh- 
fters^  then  lay  them  before  the  fire,  and  baite  them  with 
butter  till  they  have  a  fine  frothj  and  the  fliell  looks  of  a 
dark  brown.  Diih  them  up  with  plain  melted  butter 
in  a  cup. 


LOOSENES  S.— Sec  D  vsENTERy. 


LOTION. 

The  following  may  be  ufed  as  one  of  the  fafeft  prepa« 
rations  for  taking  away  fi'eckles,  fiin-burn,  and  fimiiar 
inconveniences :  though  we  would  only  recommend  an 
occafional,  not  a  conftant  ufe  of  fuch  compofitions: 

Take  Damafk  rofe  water,  three  quarters  of  a  pint ; 
olive  oil,  one  quarter  of  a  pint  5  ley  of  tartar,  half  an 
ounce  by  meafure,— ^Grind  the  ley  of  tartar  and  the  oil 
together  until  they  unite  i  then  gradually  add  the  role 
water. 

If  this  lotion  be  applied  to  the  removal  of  pimples 
or  flufhing  in  the  face,  We  muft  recommended  to  the  la* 
dies  that  they  will  at  the  lame  time  take  a  few  dofe;  of 
cooling  phyfic. 

Q  a  M.  MAC- 


\ 


[    ii6    3 

M. 
MACKAREL. 

When  the  gills  of  mackarel  are  of  a  fine  fliinifig  red- 
nfcft,  their  eyes  ftand  full,  and  the  fiefh  is  ftiff,  then  they 
are  new  J  but  if  the  eyes  arc  dufky  6t  faded,,  the  fkin 
finking  and  wrinkled,  and  the  tails  linriber,  they  are  cer- 
tiiftly  ftale. 

To  boil  Mackarel.  Make  a  fauce  with  half  a  pint 
of  white  wine,  fome  weak  broth,  fweet  herbs,  bits  of 
roots,  dices  of  onions,  pepper  and  fait  j  boil  chefe  toge- 
ther about  an  hour  j  then  boil  the  filh  therein,  and  fcrvc 
with  a  fauce  made  of  butter,  a  little  flour,  fome  fcalded 
chopped  fennel,  one  ftiallot  chopped  very  fine,  a  little 
of  the  boiling  liquid,  and  a  lemon  fquecze  when  ready. 
..jtbMhir  tudjf^  B<m1  them  in  fait  and  Water;  a  very 
little  itiitegar,  patfley  and  batter,  fennel  fauce,  and 
qoddled  goofeberries. 

MackaKel  i-la  Maitre  tHottl.  Wipe  three  mac- 
kard  very  dry  with  a  clean  cloth  J  Cut  them  down  the 
boick  from  head  to  tail,  but  not  opens  flour  them,  and  ' 
broil  thim  nicely  s  chop  a  handful  of  pariley^  and  a 
htodfiil  of  green  dnions  very  fine,  mix  them  up  with 
butter,  pepper,  and  fait.  Put  your  mackarel  in  the  diih, 
and  the  pariley,  &c.  into  the  cut  in  the  back,  and  put 
them  before  the  fire  till  the  butter  is  melted.  Squeeze 
tiie  juice  of  two  lemons  over  them,  and  fend  them  up 
hot. 

■ 

To  broil  Mackarel  whole.  Cut  oflf  the  heads,  gut 
and  wafh  them  clean,  pull  out  the  roe  at  the  neck  end, 
bi^l  it  in  a  little  water,  then  bruife  it  with  a  ipoon ; 

beat 


M  A  C  It  A  It  EL. 


n> 


beat  tip  the  yolk  of  kn  egg,  with  a  tittle  nutm^  a  Uttle 
lemon-peel  cut  fine,  a  little  thyme>  fdme  parfley  boiled 
and  chopped  fincj  a  litde  pepper  and  tik,  a  few  crumbs 
of  bread.  Mix  all  well  together,  and  fill  the  mackarel  $ 
flour  it  well,  and  broil  it  nicely.  Let  your  fauce  be 
plain  butter,  with  a  little  catchup  or  walnut  pickle. 

Another  way.  Clean  your  mackarel,  fplit  them  down 
the  back,  and  feafon  them  with  pepper  and  Iall>  fome 
mint,  parfley,  and  fennel,  chopped  very  fine.  Flour 
them,  and  fry  them  of  a  fine  ligh^  brown,  and  put  them 
on  a  di(h  and  (trainer.  Let  yout  fauce  be  fennd  and 
butter,  and  garnifh  with  parfley. 

Mackarel  au  Court  Bouillon.  Put  in  a  ftewpan  fom^ 
weak  broth,  half  a  pint  of  white  wine,  fliced  roots,  oni* 
ons,  fweet  herbs,  pepper,  and  fait;  boil  this  together 
about  half  an  hour,  then  boil  the  fifli  in  it;  make  a 
fauce  with  a  piece  of  butter,  a  little  flour,  one  flialloc 
chopped  rery  fine,  Ibme  fcalded  fennel  chopped,  and  a 
litde  of  the  boiling  liquid.  When  ready  to  ferve,  add 
the  fqueeze  of  a  lemon. 

To  bake  Mackarel.  Cut  the  heads  ofi;  wafli  and 
dry  the  bodies  in  a  cloth,  cut  them  open,  rub  the  bone 
with  a  little  bay  fait  beat  fine ;  take  mace,  black  and 
white  pepper,  a  few  doves,  all  beat  fine ;  lay  the  fifl\ 
in  a  long  pan,  and  between  every  layer  of  them,  put 
two  or  three  bay  leaves,  cover  them  with  vinegar;  tie 
writing  paper  over  them  firft,  and  then  thick  brown 
paper  doubled  j  they  muft  be  put  into  a  very  flow  oven, 
and  will  take  a  long  time  doing.  When  they  are  enough, 
uncover  them,  let  them  ftand  till  they  are  cold,  then 
pour  away  all  the  vinegar  they  were  baked  in,  cover 
thto  with  fomt  more  vinegar,  and  put  in  an  onion  Ijtuck 
I  with 


iiS 


MAR 


H. 


doves.  Let  them  ftand  two  hours  longer  in  a  verv 
flow  oven.  They  will  keep  a  great  while.  Always 
lake  them  out  with  a  ilice;  the  hands  will  Ipoil  them. 


MANGOES. — See  Cucumbers  and  Pickling. 


M 


R 


H. 


PRODUCTIONS  OF  THE  MONTH. 


Mint 

Mufhrooms 

Muftard 

Onions 

Parfley, 

Parfnips 

Potatoei 

Purilane 

RadiOi 

Rape 

Savory 

Spinach 

Tanfey 

Tamgon 

Fruiu 
Apples 
Pears 


Miot* 

jF^. 

Beets 

Beef 
Heafelamb 

Carp 

Crabs 

Brocoli,  purple 
and  white 

Miman 

Cray,6flt 

Burnet 

JWf 

Eels 

Cabbage 

Veal 

Flounders 

Cardoons 

Lobfters 

Carrots 

T^Mltrf. 

Mullets 

Celery 

Capons 

Pl^e 

Coleworts 

Chickens 

Scare 

ChervU 

Ihicklings 
Fowls 

Soles 
Tench 

Clary 
Creffes 

ngeoos 

Pi^eu 

Thornback 

Endive 

Turbot 

Efchalot 

Tame  Rabbht 

Whitings 

Garlic 

Turkeys 

Jerufalem  Arti- 

Figeiahles. 
Afparagus 

chokes 
Lettuce 

DINNERS    OF   TWO   COURSES^ 

Firfi  Courfe^ 

Onion  Soup  removed 

with  ftewed  Soals. 

Greens. 

CalPs  head  i^*la  turtle. 


Pigeon  pie. 

Melted  butter. 
Veal  cutlets. 


Pcafe  pudding. 
Leg  of  pork  boiled. 


Harrico  of  mntlon. 

Wine  iauce. 
T^^*  puddiQg^ 

Second 


MARCH. 


119 


Apricot  fritters. 

Stewed  pears. 
Blamofigc. 


^    •       Second  C9ur/i» 

Two  fmall  chickens  roafted. 

Letnon  craun* 
Freferved  cherries. 

Afparagus  boiled*      r»^««_.     r    •     • 
Peaches^iQ  biandy.      Comjy^  of  pippms. 

Ahnond  cheele  cake. 
Scalloped  o/fters. 


DINNERS    OF   THREE  COURSES* 


Sheeps  rumps. 
Chine  of  Mutton, 
and  ftewed  celery. 

Veal  collops* 


Firjl  Cpurft. 

Soup  Lorrain. 
Almond  pudding. 
Stewed  carp 
or  tench. 
Beef  fteak 

pie. 
Onion  foup* 


Fillet  of  pork. 
Lftmb's  head. 

Calves  ears.' 


Afparagus. 

Ragoo'd  fwcet- 

breads. 

Craw-fiih. 


Second  Courfe. 

A  poulard  larded  and  roafted. 
Bianc  mange. 

A  trifle. 

Cheefecakes; 
Tame  pigeons  roafled» 


Prawns. 
Fricaflee  of 

rabbits. 
Fricaflee  of 
mufhrooms. 


Tartlets. 
Cardoons. 

Black  caps. 


7bird  Conrfe. 

Ox  palates  fhivered. 

rotted  larks. 

Jellies. 

Potted  partridge. 

Cocks  combs. 


Stewed  pippins. 
Spaniflipede. 
Almond  cheefe* 
cakes* 

MAR 


£    lao    ] 

V 

MA  R  M  A  L  A  D  E. 

OrMge  Marmalade.  .Take  the  clearcft  Seville 
oranges^  and  cut  thejn  in  two ;  p^i:  the  pulp  and  juice 
into  a  pan,  and  pick  the  ikins  and  feeds  out;  boil  the 
rinds  in  hard  water  tiU  thej  are  very  tender,  change  the 
water  three  times  while  they  are  boiling,  then  pound 
them  in  a  mortar,  and  put  in  the  juice  and  pulp;  put 
them  in  a  prefcrying  pai>,  with  d^ubl^  their  weight  of 
loaf-fligar,  fet  it  over  a  flow  fire,  boil  it  gendy  forty  mi- 
nutes; put  it  into  pots.  Cover  it  with  brandy  paper> 
and  tie  it  down  clofe. 

Red  ^ince  Makmalade..  Pare  quinces  that  are  fuU  , 
ripe,  cut  them  in  quarters,  and  core  them;  cover  them  \ 
widi  the  parings,  in  a  fauccpan  almoft  full  of  (pring 
water,  cover  it  clofe,  and  ftew  them  gently  till  they  are 
quite  foft,  and  of  a  deep  pitik  colour;  then  pick  out 
the  quinces  from  the  parings,  and  beat  them  to  a  pulp  in 
a  mortar;  take  their  weight  in  loaf-fugar,  put  in  as 
much  o(  the  water  they  were  boiled  in  as  will  diflblve  it, 
and  boil  ar^  ikim  it  weU;  then  boil  the  quinces  gently 
three  quarters  of  an  hour;,  keep  ftirring  them  all  the 
time,  or  it  will  ftick  to  the  pan  and  bum;  put  it  into 
fiat  pots,  and  when  cold,  tie  it  down  clofe. 

fThite  ^ince  Marmai^aoe.  .  To  a  pound  and  a  half 
'  of  quinces  take  a  pound  of  doxible-refined  fugar,  make 
it  into  a  fyrup,  boil  it  high;  pare  and  flice  the  fruit,  and 
boil  it  quick;  when  it  begins  to  look  clear,  pour  in  half  a 
pint  of  juice  of  quinces,  or  if  quinces  are  fcarce,  pippins; 
boil  it  till  xhick,  take  ofFthefcum  with  a  paper.  To 
make  a  juice,  pare  the  quinces,  or  pippins,  cut  them 
'  -  •  * •  from 


M 


Y. 


121 


from  the  core^  beat  them  in  a  ftone  mortar>  ftrain  the 
juice  through  a  thin  cloth ;  to  every  half  pint,  put  more 
than  a  pound  of  fugar;  let  it  ftand  at  leaft  four  hours 
be£>reit  is  ufed.---See  ^o  Appls  Marmalade. 


M 


ARTICLES  IN   SEASON. 


Meai. 

Fifi. 

Trout, 

Potatoes, 

tccf. 

Carp, 

Turbot. 

Radifhes^ 

Lamb, 

Chub, 

Spinach, 

Mutton, 

Crabs, 

Articnokes, 

Sorrel, 

Veal. 

Cray-fifli, 

Turnips. 

P^ubry. 

Eels, 
Herrings, 

^*^" 

Chickens, 

Lobfters,  • 

Beans, 

Apples, 

Ducklings, 

Prawns, 

Beets, 

Goofeberries,  tc 

Fowls, 

Salmon, 

Carrots,  ' 

Currants,  for 

Green  Geefe^ 

Smelts, 

Cauliflowers, 

Tarts, 

Leverets, 

Soles, 

Cucumbers, 

Fears^ 

Pullets, 

Tench, 

Lettuce, 

Strawberricf, 

Rabhiu, 

Peafc, 

PINNERS    OF    TWO    COURSES. 

Firji  C0mfi. 


Beef  coUops. 

Wine  £iuce. 
Plum  pudding. 

Plam  butter. 
Tonjpe  boiled. 


Rice  foup,  remoYed  with  fiewed 
carp  ana  white  fauce. 

T,..**:,..  Two  fmall  chicken! 

Turnips-  i^ii^d. 

Parfley  and  butter. 
Pig  roafted;        Sbeep»  rumps  and  ricc« 

Cauliflower  Ourrant  fauce,  qe 

ij^^uuuowcr^   ..  panada. 

Bgeon  in  form  oft 
\/m  pf  veal  rpafted^ 


Y9i.I^ 


Sicpn^ 


122 


MAY. 


Cuftards. 
Rafps  in  jelly- 
Green  Peafe* 
Cherries. 
Fried  imelts. 


Second  Courfe, 
Green  goofe. 

Potted  veal. 

Defert  frame. 
Eggs  noarinaded. 
Ijcxertt  roafted. 


Fricafiee  of  lobfters* 

«  • 

Strawberries. 

Artichokes. 
Preferred  jgrreen  gagef« 
Green  goofeberry  tartt. 


W  »  »»    '♦■#<■<  4 


DINNERS    OF    THREE    COURSES.' 

*  ft 

Firfi  Courfe. 


Rabbits  with 

onions. 

Pigeon  pie  raifed. 

Ox  palates. 


Salmon  broiled. 

Olives. 

Veal 

Vermicelli  foup. 

Chine  of  Lamb^ 

Mackarei,' 


Collared 

Mutton. 

Tart  de  moi. 

Matelotof  tame  duclu 


Afparagus. 
Green  goofebery 
tarts. 
Lamb  9Utlets, 


Stewed  lettuce. 

Lobfters' 

ragooed. 

Lemon  cakies* 


Second,  Courfe, 

Green  goofe* 
Cuilards. 

Epergne. 

Bianc  mange. 
Roail  chickens. 

nird  Courfe. 

» 

Lamb  fweetbreads. 
Rhenifh  cream. 

Compot  of 

green  apricots. 

Orange  jelly. 

Ragout  of  fat  livers. 


Cocks  combs;* 
Green  apricot 

tarts. 
Stewed  celery. 


Rafpberry  puifti 
Buttered 
cilab. 
f  rcnch  beans. 


MEAD. 


r  123  j 

MEAD. 

To  ten  gallons  of  water  add  two  gallons  of  honey 
and  a  handful  of  rafce  ginger  i  alfo  two  lemons  cut  m 
flices;  boil  the  mixture  very  well,  and  keep  it  carefully 
clean  of  fcum ;  turn  it  into  a  clean  earthen  or  wooddi' 
vcflel  to  (land  ^11  night>  and  the  next  morning  barrel  it 
up  with  two  or  three  Ipoonfuls  of  good  yeaft :  in  a  month 
afterwards  you  may  botde  it. 

The  country  ladies  who  make  meid  for  family  ufe, 
have  various  deviations  from  the  foregoing,  though  not 
cflcntially  different ;  it  would  nOt  be  improper  to  mix 
fome  white  of  eggs  with  it  before  it  is  fet  on  the  fire ; 
and  though  the  boiling  is  indifpenfably  neceflary,  yet 
too  long  continuance  will  render  it  a  mere  fbum.  A/er- 
ment  is  equally  ncceffary,  but  whatever  is  made  ufe  for 
that  end,  ought  to  be  very  fweet  and  good,  for  the  feaft 
taint  will  be  communicated  to  the  whole  liquor.  Some 
have  added  hops  to  their  mead,  which  as  the  bitternels 
goes  off,  gives  a  very  plealant  flavour  to  the  liquor.  ^,.  .* 

Qnvjlip  Mead.  Take  fifteen  gallons  of  water,  afta'; 
thirty  pounds  of  honey,  boil  them  together  till  one  gal-  ' 
Ion  is  wafted,  fkim  it,  and  take  it  off  the  fire.  Have 
ready  fixteo^^ibnons  cut  in  halves,  put  a  gallon  of  the 
liquor  to  the  lemons,  and  the  reft  into  a  tub  with  feven 
packs  of  cowflips;  let  them  ftand  all  night,  then  put  in 
the  liquor  with  the  lemons,  and  eight  fpoonfuls  of  pew 
yeaft,  and  a  handful  of  fweet-briar;  ftir  them  all  well 
together,  and  let  it  work  three  or  four  days;  then  fbain 
it,  and  put  it  in  your  cafk,  and  in  fix  months  time  you 
may  bottle  it. 

R  2  M  E  A. 


t    »H    3 
MEASLES. 

« 

The  approach  of  the  mcaflcs  is  foretold  by  complaints, 
frequently  differing  in  difiercnt  conftitutiorts.     It  is  ufli* 
ally  preceded  by  fhiverings  and  hot  fits  in  alternate  fbc^ 
cejQGk>n>  by  dulncfe  and  inclination  to  (leep,  in  children  i 
aAd  in  grown  perfons,  very  violent  and  continued  head- 
achs,  an  univerfal  reftleflhefs,  fore  throat,  every  mark 
of  inflammation  in  the  eyes,  accompanied  with  the  cmif- 
fion  of  ftiarp  fcaldiiig  water,  fwoln  eyelids,  and  a  dif- 
ability  to  endure  the  light  without  fcnfations  extremely 
painful;  a conftant  deHuxion  from  the  noie^  promoted 
by  frequem  freezings,  tbirft,  lofs  of  appetite,  a  difco- 
loured  yet  not  dry  tongue,  fickneis,  an  inclin^on  to 
vomit,  or  more  ufually  a  loofcnefs  with  green  and  foetid 
ftools,  iweadng,  a  cough  and  fuf£bcation :  in  ibme  cafes 
the  cough,  which  is  fmall,  dry,  and  irritating,  is  the  firft' 
lymptom,   and  attacks  the  patient  feveral  days  before 
any  other  indifpofition  appears. 

The  fymptoms  generally  proceed  with  increafing  vio- 
lence till  the  fourth,  or  in  fome  cafes,  till  the  fifth  day, 
when  the  eruption  begins  to  make  its  appearance  in  fmall, 
round,  red  fpots  on  the  face,  and  thence  fpreading  over 
the  whole  body  in  a  fort  of  continued  figure;  for  though 
many  parts  of  the  fkin  remain  free  from  eruption,  yet  it 
always  appears  joined  together  by  a  chain  or  ftring  of 
puftulcs,  by  which  circumftahce  it  may  in  the  early  fU- 
ges  of  it  be  difhnguifhed  fiom  the  fmall  pox;  in  Ibme 
cafes  the  breaft  and  ftomach  arc  the  firft  feats  of  the 
eruption.  Thefe  inflammatory  appearances  occafion  a 
fwelling  of  the  face,  and  in  fome  infbanccs  aftual  blind- 
nefs.  The  appearance  of  the  eruption  makes  but  litdc 
alteration  in  tlie  fymptoms. 

a  From 


MEASLES.-  i^i 

From  the  fifth  day  to  the  fcventh,  the  forehead  and 
face  begin  to  grow  rough  from  the  drying  up  of  the 
puftules,  which,  from  thence  to  the  ninth  day,  conti- 
nue to  peel  off  from  the  whole  body  in  fmall  fcales, 
which  have  the  appearance  of  bran ;  and  by  this  time  no 
external  remains  of  the  difeafe  can  be  difcovered  but  a 
trifling  rednefs  on  the  fkin>  which  difappears  in  a  day  or 
two  at  fartheft. 

But  the  fymptomatic  complaints  ye  not  lb  eafily  dif- 
pofed  of;  on  the  contrary,  they  rather  feem  to  aft  with 
redoubled  vigour ;  the  cough  becomes  more  frequent, 
and  difturbs  the  patient's  reft  by  night  as  well  as.  day, 
threatening  an  inflammation  on  the  lungs,  which  too 
often  proves  fatal;  the  difficulty  of  breathing  increafes; 
and  thefe  unpromifing  fymptoms,  which  are  frequendy 
occafioned  by  a  regimen  and  medicines  improperly  warm, 
arc  followed  by  a  loofenefs,  which  in  many  cafes 
reduces  the  padent  fo  low  that  his  life  is  in  imminent 
danger. 

The  fpots  Ibmetimes  aflTume  a  livid  colour,  and  at 
others  become  quite  black ;  appearances  from  whence 
the  worft  confequences  may  be  apprehended. 

If  this  difeafe  is  accompanied  with  an  inclination  to 
fweat  moderately;  if  the  body  continue  rather  open  than 
otherwife,  but  without  fhewing  any  tendency  to  a  loofe- 
nefs; if  the  difcharge  of  urine  is  confiderable,  ^d  the 
various  complaints  in  the  head  and  eyes,  the  fever,  and 
cough  decreafe,  as  the  diftemper  advances — ^little  dan- 
ger need  be  apprehended  from  the  meafles  themfclves, 
pr  of  their  leaving  any  ill  confequences  behind  them. 

But  if  the  fever  and  accompanying  fymptoms  gain 
ftrength  in  the  progrels  of  the  difeafe ;  if  ^  the  Ipots 
fliould  fuddcnly  grow  pale  or  livid,  or  totally  difappear, 

and 


'  146  MEASLES; 

and  be  fucceedcd  by  coldncfi  of  the  extreme  partsi  reft- 
leflhels,  or  delirium  i  if  the  patient  fhould  be  affliSed 
with  great  difficulty  of  fwallowingi  exceflive  fweats>  a 
violent  propenfity  to  vomit,  or  convulfion  fits ;  the  ut- 
moft^  exertions  will  be  required  to  produce  a  change  in  hi» 
favour. 

Through  the  whole  ccurfe  oF  this  diforder  great  at- 
tention Ihouid  be  paid  to  the  regimen,  which  fhould  bt 
generally  of  the  farric  cooling  kind  as  will  be  hereafter 
rccomnlended  in  the  inoculated  firiall  pox  >   but,  except 
under  particular  circumflances,  acids  may  be  avoided, 
on   account  of  the  Cough ;  nor,  for  the  fame   reafbh, 
Ihould  the  patient  be  indulged  in  the  ufe  of'  (mall-beer: 
whey,  barley-water,  baulm-tea,  dccodlion  of  the  leases 
and  roots  of  the  common  mallow,  or  of  marfh-mallows, 
and  liquorice  root,  linfeed  tea,  or   any  other  diluting 
drinks,  may  be  taken  freely,  fvveetencd  with  honey  or 
fine  fugar,  according  to  ihe  ftate  of  the  patient's  body  i 
the  former  being  calculated  to  promote,  th«  latter  to  re- 
ftrain  loofenefs.      But  the  meafles  does  not  admit  of  the 
fame  freedom  with  refpeft  to  air  and  expofure  as  the 
fmall  pox  i  a  fudden  change^  or  a  damp  or  cold  air,  will 
in  the  former  frequently  occafion  very  troublefome  and 
obftinate  pains  in  the  breafl,  with  a  fupprcffion  of  breath, 
approaching  to  afthma. 

If  the  fymptoms  are  at  all  fevere,  bleedingwill.be 
found  necefikry  in  the  firft  flages  of  this  difeafe,  and 
muft  be  repeated  according  to  age  and  ftrength,  when- 
ever thQ  continuance  of  the  fever,  fufFocation,  flraitnefs 
acrofs  the  breaft,  or  other  fymptoms  which  feem  to  threa- 
ten inflammations  of  the  lungs,  appear  in  any  degree  to 
require  it.  Nor  is  this  operation  attended  with  danger 
in  any  ftate  of  the  difeafe  i  though  it  will  be  prudent  to 

omit 


MEASLES.  127 

cimit  bleeding  where  it  proceeds  mildly,  and  is  not  ac- 
companied with  unfavourable  tircunnftances.  Bliftering 
alio  may  be  ufeful  on  the  occurrence  of  violent  lymp* 
toms. 

The  cough  may  be  foftened  by  a  mixture  of  fperma-r 
ceti,  or  oil  of  almonds  and  fugar-candy  j  but  the  moft 
cSe&udl  method  to  relieve  both  the  cough  and  hoarfe-r 
nets  with  which  it  is  frequently  attended,  is  to  receive 
the  fteams  of  warm  water,  or  of  tea  made  with  any  of 
the  peftoral  herbs,  into  the  throat;  and  for  this  purpofi? 
the  patient  fliould  hold  his  head  over  any  narrow- 
mouthed  vcflel,  about  half  full  of  fuch  water  or  decep- 
tion, at  leaft  three  or  four  times  a  day. 

Gentle  anodynes,  fuch  as  fyrup  of  poppies,  or  a  fmall 
quantity  (not  exceeding  a  drop  or  two  for  a  child)  oif 
laudanum,  in  a  fpoonful  of  any  fimple  water,  may  be 
repeated  every  night  after  the  eruption,  in  cafe  of  con- 
fiderable  reftlcflhefs  or  uneafihefs  from  the  cough;  but 
thefe  medicines  fhould  not  be  adminiftered  if  the  patient 
is  tolerably  eafy,  and  his  fleep  undifturbed.  Great  care 
is  at  all  times  neceflary  to  prevent  coftivenefe,  a 
tendency  to  which  fhould  be  removed  by  frequent 
clyftcrs.* 

In  cafe  of  a  fudden  check  or  difappearance  of  the 
eruption,  attended  with  ficknefs,  faintneft,  and  a  low  or 
irregular  pulfc,  negus,  or  even  wine  and  cordials,  Ihould 
be  frequently  taken,  the  body  fhould  be  gently  chafed 
with  warm  cloths,  and  blifters  applied  to  the  limbs* 
Warm  plaifters  to  me  infides  of  the  hands,  and  fbles  of 
the  {cct,  or  cat^plafrps  of  bread  with  muftard-feed  or 
horfe-radifli,  may  alfo  be  p'ied  in  cafes  of  emergency; 

and  the  immediate  application  of  bliflers  is  advifed  on 

.  »    -  -  •  ■ 

the 


^ 


laJ         ,      M    E    A    S    L    E    S. 

the  firft  appearance  of  cpnvnUions,  to  which  very  young 
f  jbje6ls  are  fometimes  liable. 

The  bark  may  be  given  with  advantage  in  almoft 
every  ftage  of  this  diftemper,  efpecially  after  the  prepa- 
ration of  bleeding  and  opening  the  body  5  it  relieves 
the  cough,  leflens  the  hoarfenefs,  and  prevents  the  ad- 
vance of  other  difagreeabile  fymptoms.  It  is  of  fingu* 
lar  ufe  in  the  appearance  of  purple  or  black  ipots,  ta- 
ken in  fubftance  from  ten  grains  to  thirty,  in  propor- 
tion to  the  patient -s  age,  in  a  Ipopnful  of  any  liquid ; 
to  which  may  be  added  a  few  drops  of  Ipirit  of  vitrioL 
And  as  many,  if  not  moft  of  the  al«-ming  fymptomsr 
which  attend  the  going  off  of  the  eruption,  are  occafi- 
oned  by  the  return  of  the  difeafed  matter  into  the  bloods 
the  bark,  adminiftered  at  this  period  of  the  difeaie,  can- 
not fail  to  produce  very  happy  effedb. 

Purges  are  neceflary  a&er  the  meafles,  but  by  na 
means  violent  ones;  nor  fhould  they  in  general  be  given 
till  the  eruptions  have  entirely  difappeared ;  but  gentle 
peripiration,  during  the  wearing  off  of  this  difeafe,  may, 
in  moil  cafes  be  promoted  with  advantage. 

Among  the  other  difagreeable  relics  ofthis  diibrder,  ^ 
looleneis  is  not  uncommon;  and  when  it  proceeds  to 
fuch  violence  as  to  occafion  confiderable  weaknels,  it 
fhould  be  cautioufly  checked,  but  by  no  means  fud- 
denly  ftopped:  a  few  grains  of  rhubarb,  which  may  be 
accompanied  with  a  fmall  quantity  of  faffron,  and  pow. 
der  of  crab's  eyes  or  oyfter-Ihells,  will  in  general  aniwer 
the  purpofe  effedually. 

Air  and  exercife  are  great  affiftants  in  the  recovery 
from  this  diibrder;  but  the  former  fliould  never  he  ta-» 
ken  during  the  prevalence  of  fliarp  or  nv4ft  ^inds, 

which 


MIXTURES.  i2> 

.  which  will  aggravate  the  cough  and  endanger  the  lungs ; 
nor  (hould  the  latter  be  ufed  in  fo  violent  a  degree  as  ^^ 
to  produce  fatigue :  a  light  diet,  abftinence  from  flcfli, 
weak  and  diluting  liquors,  and  in  cafes  of  extraordinary 
weaknefs,  afles  milk,^  will  conduce  to  the  re-eftablilh^ 
ment  of  the  patient's  health. 


MIXTURES. 

This  IS  ieldom  either  an  elegant  or  agreeable  form  of 
medicines ;  it  is  neverthelefs  neceflary.  Many  perfbns 
can  take  a  mixture,  who  are  not  able  fwallow  a  bolus  or 
an  elefhiary :  befides,  there  are  medicines  which  afb 
better  in  this  than  in  any  other  form. 

AJiringent  Mixture.  Take  fimple  cinnamon  water 
and  common  water,  of  each  three  ounces  j  Ipirituoua 
cinnamon  water,  an  dunce  and  a^half  j  Japonic  confec- 
tion, half  an  ounce ;  mix  them.  In  dyfcntcries  which 
are  not  of  long  ftanding,  after  the  neceflary  evacuations, 
a  fpoonfiil  or  two  of  this  mixture  may  be  taken  every 
four  hours,  interpofing  every  fecond  or  third  day  a  dole 
of  rhubarb. 

X)/»r^//c  MiXTURK.  Take  of  mint  water,  five  oun- 
ces ;  vinegar  of  fquills,  fix  drams ;  fweet  fpirits  of  ni- 
tre, half  an  ounce ;  fyrup  of  ginger,  an  ounce  and  a  half. 
Mix  them*  In  obfl:ruftions  of  the  urinary  paflages,  two 
fpbonfuls  of  it  may  be  taken  twice  or  thrice  a  day. 

Laxative  Abforbent  Mixture.  Rub  one  dram  of 
magnefia  alba  in  a  mortar  with  ten  or  twelve  grains  of 
the  beft  Turkey  rhubarb,  and  add  to  them  three  ounces 
of  common  water ;  fimple  cinriamon  water,  and  fyrup 
of  fugar,  of  each  one  ounce. 

Vol.  IL  S  Aa 


13*  MUSHROOMS. 

As  moft  difeafes  of  infants  are  accompanied  tvich  acU 
dities,  this  mixture  may  either  be  given  with  a  view  to 
corredt  thefc,  or  to  open  the  body.  A  table  fpoonful 
may  be  taken  for  a  dofe,  and  repeated  three  times  a  day. 
To  a  very  young  child  half  a  fpoonful  will  be  fiafficient* 

When  the  mixture  is  intended  to  purge,  the  dofc  may 
cither  be  increafcd,  or  the  quantity  of  rhubarb  doubled. 
This  is  one  of  the  moft  generally  ufeful  medicines  for 
children  widi  which  we  arc  acquainted. 

Saline  Mixture.  Diflblve  a  dram  of  the  fait  of 
tartar  in  four  ounces  of  boiling  water  j  and  when  cold, 
drop  into  it  fpirit  of  vitriol  till  the.efFervefccnce  ceafes  i 
then  add  of  peppermint  water,  two  ounces ;  fimple  fy- 
rup,  one  ounce.  When  frefli  lemons  cannot  be  had,  this 
mixture  may  occafionally  fupply  the  place  of  the  faline 
julep. 


MUSHROOMS. 

This  fungus  has  been  fo  long  admitted  to  the  tabley 
and  by  fo  many  eftecmcd  a  delicate  difh,  that  we  are 
of  courfe  obliged  to  give  its  culinary  preparations,  at  the 
fame  time  we  muft  caution  our  readers  not  only  againft 
too  liberal  a  ufe  of  them,  but  alfo  to  be  very  careful  in 
their  choice,  and  of  whom  they  purchafe. 

To  ragoo  Mushrooms.  Scrape  the  infide  of  fomc 
large  muflirooms,  and  broil  them ;  when  a  litde  brown 
put  them  into  fome  gravy  thickened  with  ale,  a  little 
flour,  a  very  little  Madeira,  fait,  kyan,  and  a  little  juice 
of  lemon.     Boil  thefe  together. 

Toftew  Mushrooms.  Firft  put  your  mufhrooms  In 
fait  and  watetj  then  wipe  them  with  a  flannel,  and  put 

them 


MUTTON.  i3t 

them  again  in  fait  and  water ;  then  throw  them  into  4 
faucepan  by  themfelveS)  and  let  them'  boil  up  as  quick 
as  pollible ;  then  put  in  a  little  kyan  pepper^  and  a  little 
mace ;  let  them  flew  in  this  a  quarter  of  an  hour,  then 
add  a  tea-cupflil  of  cream>  with  a  little  flour  and  butter 
the  (ize  of  a  walnut    Servt  them  up  as  fbon  as  done. 

Mushroom  Loaves.  Take  fmall  buttons,  and  wafh 
them  as  for  picUing,  boil  them  a  few  minutes  in  a  little 
water ;  put  to  tlwn  a  little  cream^  a  piece  of  butter  rol* 
led  in  flour^  falc>  and  pepper ;  boil  this  up^  and  fill  fbme 
finaU  Dutch  loaves.  If  they  arc  not  to  be  had,  fmall 
French  rolls  will  do,  the  crumb  taken  out  5  but  not  iQ 
well  as  the  loaves*  . 

Tofricafe€  Mushrooms.  Peel  your  mufhrooms,  and 
fcrape  the  infide  of  them,  throw  them  into  fait  and  water 
if  buttons,  rub  them  with  flannel,  take  them  out  and  boil  • 
them  with  frefli  fait  and  water.  When  they  are  tender, 
put  in  a  little  flired  parflcy,  an  onion  ftuck  with  cloves  1 
tofs  them  up  with  a  good  lump  of  butter  rolled  in  a  lit-» 
tie  flour.  You  may  put  in  three  fpoonfuls  of  thick 
cream,  and  a  litde  nutmeg  cut  in  pieces ;  but  take  care 
to  take  out  the  nutmeg  and  onion  before  you  (end  it  to 
table.  You  may  leave  out  the  parfley,  and  (lew  in  a. 
glafs  of  wine,  if  you  like  it^ 


MUTTON. 

To  chufi  Mutton.  When  mutton  is  old,  the  flefli  Irt 
pinching  will  wrinkle,  and  remain  fo  j  if  young  the  flelh 
will  pinch  tender,  and  the  fat  will  eafily  part  fro;n  the 
lean  s  but  if  old  it  will  Aick  l^y  fjcins  and  ftrings.     The 

*  S  a  flcfli 


f3t  mutton: 

fidh  of  ew6  mutton  is  paler  than  wedicr  mutton^  is  tzR^ 
er  parted,  and  has  a  clofer  grain.  When  the  flefli  has 
a  pallid  whitenefs,  inclining  to  yellow,  and  is  looie  at  the 
bone,  you  hare  re^on  to  expe£b  its  being  rotten,  or  in* 
dining  dut  way.  To  know  whether  it  be  new  or  ftal^ 
obienre  the  directions  in  chuiing  Iamb. 
^  In  roafting  Mutton,  the  loin,  the  chine,  and  the 
hAAlt  muft  be  papered,  and  have  the  fkin  raifed  and 
ikewered  on ;  and,  when  near  done,  take  off  the  (kin, 
bafte  and  flour  it,  to  froth  it  up.  All  other  pares  of 
mutton  and  lamb  muft  be  roafted  with  a  qxiick  clear 
£bre,  without  the  (km  being  raifed,  or  paper  put  on.  You 
Ihould  always  obferve  to  bafte  your  meat  as  foon  as  you 
lay  it  down  to  roaft,  fprinkle  fome  fait  on,  and,  when 
near  done,  dredge  it  with  a  little  flour  to  fix>th  it  up^ 
Garnifli  mutton  with  horfe»radifli.  If  garlic  is  not  dif- 
liked,  flaiflf  the  knutkle  part  of  the  leg  with  two  or 
three  cloves  of  it.  For  fauce-^potatoes,  pickles,  fallad, 
celery  rawor  ftcwed,  broccoli,  French  beans,  cauliflowers, 
or,  to  a  flioulder  of  mutton,  onion  fauce. 

yj?  collar  a  Breafi,  of  MvTXOjf.  Take  the  flcin  off  and 
bone  it,  roU  it  up  in  a  collar  like  the  breaft  of  veal,  put 
a  quart  of  milk  and  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  butter  in  the 
dripping-pan  and  bafte  it  well  while  it  is  roafting.  Sauce, 
good  gravy  in  the  difti  and  in  a  boat,  and  currant  jelly- 
in  another. 

Mother  w<^.  Bone  your  mutton,  and  rub  over  it 
the  yolk  of  an  egg,  then  grate  over  it  a  little  lemon  peel 
and  a  nutmeg,  with  a  little  pepper  and  fait,  then  chop 
fir>aU  one  tea-cupfol  of  capers,  two  anchovies,  Ihred  fine, 
a  handful  of  parfley,  a  few  fweet  herbs,  mix  them  with 
the  crumb  of  a  penny  loafi  and  ftrew  it  oyer  your  mut- 
ton^ 


MUTTON; 


«3J 


ion,  and  roll  it  up  tight ;  hcil  it  t;wo  hours^  then  take  it 
upi  and  put  it  in  a  pickle  made  as  fbllows  i  To  one  pint 
of  fait  and  water^  put  half  a  pint  of  vinegar. 

Mutton  Kebobbed.  Joint  a  loin  of  mutton  between 
eveiy  bone ;  feafbn  it  with  pepper  and  fait  tnoderately^ 
grate  a  fmall  nutmeg  all  oyer^  and  rub  it  with  crumbs 
of  bread  $^nd  fweet  herbs  mixed  in  the  yolks  of  eggs,  and 
put  it  on  a  fmall  fpit ;  roail  before  a  quick  fire^  and  bafte 
it  with  a  little  piece  of  butter,  and  then  with  what  comet 
&om  it ;  when  it  is  enough,  lay  it  in  the  diih,  and  have 
ready  half  a  pint  of  good  gravy,  and  what  comes  from 
it.  Take  two  fpoonfuls  of  catchup,  and  mix  a  tea- 
fpoonful  of  flour  widi  it,  and  put  to  the  gravy ;  ftir  ic 
together,  give  it  a  boil,  and  pour  over  the  mutton. 
.  You  muft  obferve  to  take  off  all  the  fat  of  the  infid^ 
and  the  ikin  off  the  top  of  the  meat,  and  fome  of  the  fat 
if  there  be  too  much.  When  you  put  what  comes 
from  your  meat  into  the  gravy,  ohferve  »  pour  off  all 
tfie  fat. 

Jnother  way.  Having  cut  a  loia  of  mutton  into  four 
pieces,  take  off  the  ikin,  rub  them  with  the  yolk  of  aa 
egg,  and  ftrew  over  them  a  few  crumbs  of  bread,  and  a 
little  parficy  fhred  fine.  Spit  and  foaft  them,  and  keep  * 
batting  them  all  the  time  with  frdh  butter,  in  order  to 
make  the  froth  rife.  When  they  are  properly  done,  put 
a  little  brown  gravy  under  them,  and  make  ufe  of  pic- 
kles for  garnifli. 

A  liarrico  of  Mvrrov.  Take  a  neck  or  loin  of  mut- 
ton, cut  it  into  thick  chops,  flour  them,  and  fry  them 
brown  in  a  little  butter  i  lay  them  to  drain  on  a  fieve^ 
\htn  put  them  into  aftcwpan,  and  cover  them  with  gra- 
yy  i  put  VI  a  whole  bni^n^  and  a  turnip  or  two,  and  ftew 

\  them 


134  MUTTON, 

diem  till  tender ;  then  take  out  the  chops,  ftrain  the  li^ 
quor  through  a  fieve  and  Ikim  off  all  the  fat  -,  melt  fomc 
butter  with  a  little  flour,  add  the  liquor,  and  ftir  it  well 
all  the  time  you  are  pouring  it,  or  it  will  be  in  lumps  ; 
put  in  your  chops  and  a  glafs  of  Lifbon ;  have  ready 
fome  carrots  about  three  quarters  of  an  inch  long,  and 
cut  round  with  an  apple  corer,  fome  turnips  cut  with  a 
turnip  fcoop,  a  dozen  fmall  onions  blanched  well ;  put 
them  to  your  meat,  and  feafon  with  pepper  and  felt  j 
ftcw  them  very  gently  for  fifteen  minutes,  tlien  take  out 
the  chops  with  a  fork,  lay  them  in  your  difli,  and  pour 
(he  ragoo  over  it.     Garnifli  with  beet  root. 

Another  way.  Cut  a  neck  of  mutton,  or  a  loin,  into 
ihort  fbeaks ;  fry  them,  flour  them,  put  them  into  a  fl:ew- 
pan  wth  a  quart  or  three  pints  of  beef  broth,  a  carrot 
fliced,  a  turnip,  an  onion  fluck  with  cloves,  a  few  pep- 
per corns,  and  fome  fait ;  let  them  ftew  till  tender,  they 
will  take  three  hours,  as  they  (hould  do  gently :  take 
out  the  mutton,  ftrain  the  fauce,  put  to  it  carrots  cut  in 
wheds,  or  any  fliape,  turnips  in  balls,  and  celery  cut  to 
pieces,  all  boiled  ready ;  fimmer  thefe  a  minute  pr  two 
in  the  feuce,  lay  the  mutton  in  the  difh,  and  pour  the 
lauce  over.  If  it  cannot  be  ferved  immediately,  put  the 
mutton  into  the  fauce  to  keep  hot. 

1<(eck  0/ Mutton  calUi  the  Hafty  Drfh.  Get  one  of 
thofe  diihes  called  a  necromancer ;— Take  a  neck  of  mut- 
ton of  about  fix  pounds,  take  oflF  the  (kin>  cut  it  into, 
chops,  not  too  thick,  flice  a  French  roll  thin >  flice  a  very 
large  onion,  flice  three  or  foyr  turnips,  lay  a  row  of  mut- 
ton in  the  difli,  on  that  a  row  of  roll,  then  a  row  of  tur- 
nips, and  then  onions  \  a  little  fait,  then  the  meat,  and 
fo  on  5  put  to  it  a  little  bundle  of  fweet  herb3j  and  twa 

or 


MUTTON.  ^35 

or  three  blades  of  mace ;  have  a  tea  kettle  of  water  boil- 
ing, fill  the  diihy  and  cover  it  clofe ;  hang  the  diih  on 
the  back  of  two  chairs  by  the  rim,  have  ready  three  Ihects 
of  brown  paper,  tear  each  Iheet  into  five  pieces,  and  draw 

I  diem  through  your  hand,  light  one  piece,  and  hold  it 

under  the  bottom  of  the  diih,  moving  the  paper  about 
as  faft  as  it  burns ;  light  another  till  all  are  burnt,  and 
your  meat  will  be  enough.   Fifteen  minutes  juft  does  it. 

I  Send  it  to  table  hot  in  the  difti. 

To  drefs  a  Neck  of  Mutton  like  Venison.     Cut  a 
large  neck  and  the  flap  of  the  Ihoulder  with  it,  to  make 

i  it  look  handfomer ;  (tick  it  all  over  in  little  holes  with 

a  (liarp  penknife,  pour  a  little  red  wine  upon  it,  and  let 
it  lie  in  the  wine  four  or  five  days ;  turn  and  rub  it  thr^e 
or  four  times  a  day,  then  take  it  out  and  hang  it  up  for 
three  days  in  the  open  air  out  of  the  fun,  and  dry  it  of- 
ten with  a  cloth  to  keep  it  from  mufling ;  when  you 
roaft  it,  bafte  it  with  the  wine  it  was  (beeped  in,  or  frefh 
wine  i  put  white  paper  three  or  four  folds  to  keep  in  the 
fat,  roaft  it  thoroughly,  take  off  the  fkin,  froth  it  nicely, 
and-  ferve  it  up. 

Neck  of  Mutton  krd^d  with  Ham  and  Anchovies. 
Lard  the  fillet  of  a  neck  of  mutton  quite  through  with 
ham  and  anchovies,  firft  rolled  in  chopped  parfley,  ihal-* 
lots,  fweet  herbs,  pepper  and  fait ;  then  put  it  to  braze 
or  ftew  in  a  little  broth,  with  a  glafs  of  white  wine ; 
when  done,  fife  and  fkim  the  (auce,  and  add  a  little  cul- 
lis  to  give  it  a  proper  confiftence  j  add  the  juice  of  half 
a  lemon,  and  ferve  it  upon  the  neck  of  mutton. 

To  drefs  a  leg. of  Mvtton  to  eat  like  Fenifon.  Cut  the 
leg  in  the  fhape  of  a  haunch  of  venifon  i  fave  the  blood 
of  the  iheep,  and  deep  it  for  five  or  fix  hours  i  then  roll 

it 


13«  MUTTON. 

it  in  three  or  four  (heets  6f  white  paper,  well  buttered 
oh  the  infide ;  tie  it  with  a  packthread,  and  roaft  it, 
bafting  It  widi  good  be*f  dripping  or  butter.  It  will 
take  two  hours  at  a  good  fire,  for  your  muttoA  muft  be 
fat  and  thick.  About  five  or  fix  minutes  before  you 
take  it  up,  take  oflT  the  paper,  bafte  it  with  a  piece 
of  butter,  and  (hake  a  little  flour  over  it  to  make  it  have 
a  fine  froth,  and  then  have  a  litde  good  drawn  gravy  in 
a  bafon,  and  fome  fweet  fauce  in  another.  Do  not  gar* 
nifh  with  any  thing. 

Another  way.  Lay  the  mutton  in  a  pan,  with  the 
backfide  of  it  down,  and  pour  a  bottle  of  red  wine  over 
it,  in  which  let  it  lay  twenty-four  hours.  Spit  it,  and 
roaft  it  at  a  good  quick  fire,  and  keep  bafting  it  all  the 
time  with  the  fame  liquor  and  butter.  It  will  require 
an  hour  and  half  roafting ;  and,  when  it  is  done,  fend  ic 
up  with  a  litde  good  gravy  in  one  boat,  and  fweet  fauce 
in  another.  A  good  fat  neck  of  mutton  done  in  this 
manner  is  efteemed  delicate  eating. 

Or,  after  fteeping  it  in  the  blood  for  five  or  fix  hours^ 
let  it  hang  up  as  long  as  it  will  keep  fweet ;  dry  it  well 
with  a  cloth,  rub  it  over  with  fi^fli  butter,  flrew  fomc 
fait  and  flour  over  it,  and  drefs  it  as  above. 

Leg  of  Mutton  ^  la  mode.  Lard  a  leg  of  muttbn 
through  with  large  pieces  rolled  in  chopped  fweet  herbs 
and  fine  fpices ;  braze  it  on  a  pan  of  die  fame  bignefs, 
with  flices  of  lard,  onions,  and  roots ;  ftop  the  fteam 
very  clofe.  When  done,  add  a  glafs  of  white  wine, 
and  fift  the  fauce  to  fcrve  with  it. 

Leg  0/ Mutton  a  la  haut-gout.  Let  a  leg  of  mutton 
hang  for  a  fortnight  in  any  place  j  dien  ftuflF  every  part 
of  it  with  fomc  cloves  of  garlick,  rub  it  with  pepper  and 

fait. 


M    U    T    T    O    N.  IJ7 

falt>  and  then  roaft  it.  When  it  is  properly  roafted^ 
fend  it  up  with  fbme  good  gravy  and  red  wine  in  the 
dilh. 

Leg  of  Mutton  a-la-daube.  Lard  a  leg  of  mutton 
with  bacon,  half  roaft  it,  and  then  put  it  in  as  frnall  a 
pot  as  will  hold  it,  with  a  quart  of  mutton  gravy,  half  a 
pint  of  vinegar,  fome  whole  fpice,  bay  leaves,  (weet  mar- 
joram, winter  favory,  and  fome  green  onions.  When 
it  is  tender,  take  it  up,  and  make  the  faucc  with  fome 
of  the  liquor,  mufhrooms,  iliced  lemon,  two  anchovies^ 
and  a  piece  of  butter  j  pour  fome  over  the  mutton^ 
and  the  reft  in  a  boat. 

Toragoo  a  Leg  (jf  Mutton.  Take  all  the  (kin  and  fat 
ofi^  cut  it  very  thin  the  right  way  of  the  grain,  then  but- 
ter your  ftewpan,  and  Ihake  fome  flour  into  it  i  flice  half 
a  lemon  and  half  an  onion,  cut  them  very  fmall,  a  little 
bundle  of  fwect  herbs,  and  a  blade  of  mace.  Put  all 
together  with  your  meat  into  the  pan,  ftir  it  a  minute 
or  two,  and  then  put  in  fix  fpoonfuls  of  gravy,  and  have 
ready  an  anchovy  minced  fmall ;  mix  it  with  fome  but- 
ter and  flour,  ftir  it  all  tog.ether  for  fix  minutes,  and 
then  difh  it  up. 

Another  way.  Let  a  fmall  leg  of  mutton  hang  as 
long  as  it  will  keep;  cut  thin  coUops  fi-om  it  the  long 
way,  pick  out  the  finews,  feafon  the  meat  with  pepper 
and  fait,  and  ftrew  over  it  two  or  three  Ihallots  chopped, 
and  a  little  parflcyj  flour  it,  put  it  into  a  ftewpan  with 
a  bit  of  butter,  ftir  them  till  near  done,  put  to  them  half 
a  pint  or  more  of  cuUIs  or  good  gravy,  kyan,  (if  necef- 
fary)  a  little  catchup  or  mulhroom  powder,  more  flour 
if  the  fauce  is  not  thick  enough;  fimmcr  the  meat  a  few 

Vol.  II.  T  minutes. 


ij8  MUTTON. 

minutes>  fcrvc  it  dircdkiy,  or  it  will  grow  hard.    Garnilh 
with  pickles. 

To  drefs  a  Leg  of  Mvttos  a-la-Royak.    Take  ofFall 

the  fkin>  fat,  and  (hank  bone;  lard  it  with  bacon,  feafbn 

it  with  pepper  and  fait,  take  three  or  four  pounds  of 

thick  flank  beef,  pr  any  lean  piece,  or  a  piece  of  leg  of 

veal }  let  that  alfo  be  larded,  flour  the  meat,  and  brown 

them  in  a  frying  pan;  then  put  it  into  a  pot  with  three 

quarts  of  water^  a  bunch  of  fweet  herbs,  an  onion  ftuck 

with  cloves,  a  few  blades  of  mace,  fome  pepper  and  falt^ 

a  glafsof  red  wine,  a  little  catchup;  let  thefe  flew  very 

foftly  for  two  hours,  or  till  the  meat  is  tender  5  there 

may  be  added  trufRes,  morels,  muftirooms,  and  gravy, 

all,  or  ibme  of  them,  but  it  is  good  without ;  lay  the 

mutton  in  the  middle  of  the  diih,  and  cut  the  other  meat 

in  flices,  and  lay  round  it;  ftrain  the  fauce  over  it. 

To  roafi  a  Leg  of  Mutton  with  Oyjlers.  Make  a 
force-meat  of  beef  fuet  chopped  fmall,  the  yolks  of  eggs 
boiled  hardj  with  three  anchovies,  a  fmall  bit  of  onion, 
thyme,  favory,  and  fome  oyftcrs,  (a  dozen  or  fourteen) 
all  cut  fine;  fome  falt^  pepper,  grated  nutmeg,  and 
crumbs  of  breads  mixed  up  with  raw  eggs;  fluff  the 
mutton  under  the  fkin  in  the  thickefl  part,  under  the 
flap,  and  at  the  knuckle.  For  fauce — ^fbme  0)rfter  li- 
quor, a  little  red  wine,  an  anchovy,  and  fome  more 
oyflers  flcwcd,  and  laid  under  the  mutton. 

Another  wy.  Take  a  leg  of  mutton  that  has  been 
two  or  three  days  killed,  fhiflT  every  part  of  it  with 
oyfters,  roafl:  it,  and  garnifh  with  horfc-radifh. 

A  leg  of  mutton  may  be  drcflfed  with  cockles  in  the 
fame  manner* 


MUTTON.  139 

fo  force  a  Ltg  t?/ Mutton.  Raifc  the  Ikin,  and  take 
out  the  lean  part  of  the  mutton,  chop  it  exceeding  fine, 
with  one  anchovy;  fhred  a  bundle  of fweet  herbs,  grate 
a  penny  loaf,  half  a  lemon,  nutmeg,  pepper  and  fait  to 
your  tafte;  make  them  into  a  force-meat,  with  three 
eggs  and  a  large  glafs  of  red  wine;  fill  up  the  Ikin  with 
the  force-meat,  but  leave  the  bone  and  (hank  in  their 
place,  and  it  will  appear  like  a  whole  leg;  lay  it  on  an 
earthen  diih,  with  a  pint  of  red  wine  under  it,  and  fend 
it  to  the  oven;  it  will  take  two  hours  and  an  half: 
when  it  comes  out,  take  off*  all  the  fkt,  drain  the  gravy 
over  the  mutton,  lay  round  it  hard  yolks  of  eggs,  and 
pickled  muihrooms.  Oarnilh  with  piokles,  and  ierve 
it  up. 

Split  Leg  of  Mvrr OS  and  Onion  Sauce.  Split  the  leg 
from  the  ihank  to  the  end,  ftick  a  Ikewer  in  to  keep  the 
nick  open,  bafte  it  with  red  wine  till  it  is  half  roafted, 
then  take  the  wine  out  of  the  dripping-pan^  and  put  to  it 
one  anchovy;  fet  it  over  the  fire  till  the  anchovy  is  dif- 
folved,  rub  the  yolk  of  a  hard  egg  in  a  little  cold  butter, 
mix  it  with  the  wine,  and  put  it  into  your  fauce-boat ; 
put  good  onion  fauce  over  the  leg  when  it  is  roafted,  and 
fcrve  it  up. 

To  make  Mutton  Hams.  Cut  a  hind  quarter  of 
mutton  like  a  ham,  take  an  ounce  of  falt-petre,  a  pound 
of  coarfe  fugar,  a  pound  of  common  fait;  mix  them, 
and  rub  your  ham,  lay  it  in  a  hollow  tray  wifih  the  fkin 
downwards,  bafte  it  every  day  for  a  fortnight,  then  roll 
it  in  faw-duft,  hang  it  in  the  fmoke  of  wood  a  fort- 
night, and  then  in  a  dry  place;  cut  it  out  in  rafhers, 
and  broil  it  as  you  want.  It  eats  better  brdled  than 
boiled. 

T  2  Ttgsot 


14^ 


MUTTON. 


Jiggot  ^/Mutton  with  Spanijh  Onions.  A  jiggot  of 
mutton  is  the  leg  with  part  of  the  loin;  provide  fuch  a 
one  as  has  been  killed  two  or  three  days  at  leaft,  thump 
it  well,  and  bind  it  with  packthread,  that  it  may  keep 
whole  when  you  take  it  out  5  put  it  into  a  pot  about  its 
bignefs,  pour  in  a  litde  broth,  and  cover  it  with  water ; 
put  in  about  a  dozen  of  Spanifh  onions,  with  the  rinds 
on,  three  or  ^our  carrots,  a  turnip  or  two,  fome  parfley, 
and  any  other  herbs  you  like;  cover  down  clofe,  and 
ftew  it  gendy  for  three  or  four  hours;  but  take  out  your 
onions  after  an  hour's  ftewing,  and  take  the  firft  and  ic- 
cond  rinds  ofri  put  them  into  a  fte  ^  pan,  witlu  a  ladle 
or  two  of  cullis,  a  mufhroom  or  two,  or  truffles  minced, 
and  a  litde  parfleyj  drain  the  mutton  clean  from  the  fat 
and  liquor;  make  your  fauce  hot  and  well  feafoned, 
fqueeze  in  a  lemon,  and  ferve  it  up  with  the  onions  round 
it,  and  pour  the  fauce  over  it. 

Shoulder  of  Mutton  furprijed.  Put  a  fhoulder  of 
mutton,  having  .firit  half  boiled  it,  into  a  tofling-pan, 
with  two  quarts  of  veal  gravy,  four  ounces  of  rice,  a 
litde  beaten  mace,  and  a  tea-Ipoonful  of  mufhroom 
powder.  Stew  it  an  hour,  or  till  the  rice  is  enough, 
and  then  take  up  your  mutton  and  keep  it  hot.  Put  to 
the  rice  half  a  pint  of  cream,  and  a  piece  of  butter  tolled 
in  flour ;  then  fhake  it  well,  and  boil  it  a  few  minutes. 
Lay  your  mutton  on  the  difh,  and  pour  your  gravy  over 
it.     You  may  garnilh  with  either  pickles  or  barberries, 

J  Shoulder  of  Mutton  en  epigram.  Roafl  it  almofl 
enough,  then  very  carefully  take  off  the  fkin  about  the 
thicknefs-of  a  crown  piece,  and  the  fhank-bone  with  it 
at  the  end;  then  feafon  that  ikin  and  fhank-bone  with 
pepper  and  falt^  a  litde  lemon-peel  cut  fmall,  and  a  few, 

fweet 


MUTTON  Ht 

^eet  herbs  and  crurpbs  of  bread;  then  lay  this  on  the 
gridiron^  and  let  it  be  of  a  fine  brown :  in  the  mean 
time^  take  the  reft  of  the  meat^  and  cut  it  like  a  ha(h 
about  the  bignefs  of  a  ihiUing^  f^ve  the  gravy  and  put 
Ito  it^  with  a  few  fpoonfuls  of  ftcQng  gravy^  half  an  onioa 
put  fine,  a  Utde  nutnKg,  a  litde  pepper  and  fait,  ^  little 
bundle  of  fweet  l^erbs>  fomc  gcrkvns  cut  very  fnaall, 
a  few  naufhrooms,  two  or  three  tniffles  cut  fmall,  two 
ipoonfuls  of  wine,  either  red  or  white,  and  throw  a  little 
flour  oyer  the  meat:  let  all  tbefe  ftew  together  very 
ibftly  for  five  or  fix  minntes,  but  be  fure  it  does  not 
boil  3  take  out  the  fweet  herbs,  and  put  the  haih  into  t;hfi 
diih;  lay  the  broiled  Qpon  it,  and  fend  it  to  table, . 

A  Shoulder  of  Mi^tton  called  Hen  and  Chickens,  or  h 
^fguife.  Half  roaft  a  fhoulder,  then  cut  ofF  the  blade  at 
the  firft  joint,,  and  both  the  flaps  to  make  the  blade 
rounds  fcore  the  blade  over  in  diamonds,  throw  a  lit* 
de  pepper  and  fait  over  it,  and  fet!it  in  a  tin  oven  to 
broil;  cut  the  flaps,  and  the  meat  of  the  fhank,  in  thin 
dices,  into  the  gravy  that  runs  out  of  the  mutton,  and 
put  a  litde  good  gravy  to  it,  with  two  fpoonfuls  of  wal- 
nut catchups  one  of  browning)  a  little  kyan  pepper,  and 
one  or  two  Ihallots.  When  your  meat  is  tender,  thicken 
it  with  flour  and  butter,  put  your  meat  in  the  difh  with 
the  gravy,  and  lay  the  blade  on  the  top,  broiled  a  dark 
brown.     Garnifh  with  green  pickles,  and  ferve  it  up. 

A  Shoulder  q/*  Mutton  with  a  Ragoa  of  Turnips.  Get 
the  blade-bone  taken  out  of  a  fhoulder  of  mutton,  as 
neat  as  polTible,  and  in  the  place  put  a  ragoo,  done  thus : 
— Take  one  or  two  fweetbreads,  Ibme  cocks'-combs, 
iialf  an  ounce  of  truffles,  fome  muihrooms,  a  blade  or 
two  of  mace,  a  litde  pepper  and  faltj  flew  all  thefe  in  a 
quarter  of  a  pint  of  good  gravy,  and  thicken  it  with 

a  piece 


J4i  MUTTON. 

a  piece  of  butter  rolkd  in  flour,  or  yolks  of  eggs,  which 
you  pleafe;  let  it  be  cold  before  you  put  it  in,  and  fiD 
up  the  place  where  you  took  the  bone  out  juft  in  the 
form  it  was  before,  and  few  it  up  tight;  take  a  deep 
ftewpan,  or  one  of  the  round  deep  copper  pans  with  two 
handles,  lay  at  the  bottom  thin  (lices  of  bacon,  thin  flices 
of  veal,  a  bundlt  of  parfley,  thyme,  and  fwcet  herbs, 
Ibme  whole  pepper,  a  blade  or  two  of  mace,  three  or 
four  cloves,  a^  large  onion,  and  put  in  juft  thin  gravy 
enough  to  cover  the  meat;  cover  it  clofe,  and  let  it  flew 
two  hours,  then  take  ei^t  or  ten  turnips,  pare  themj 
And  cut  them  into  what  fhape  you  pleafe  -,  put  them 
into  boiling  water,  and  let  them  be  jufl  enough;  throw 
them  into  a  fieve  to  drain,  over  the  hot  water,  that  they 
may  keep  warm;  then  take  uf)  the  mutton,  drain  it 
from  the  fat,  lay  it  in  a  difh,  and  keep  it  hot  covered; 
firain  the  gravy  it  was  flewed  in,  and  take  off  all  the 
&t,  put  in*  a  little  fait,  a  glafs  of  white  wine,  two  fpoon* 
iuls  of  catchup,  and  a  piece  of  butter  rolled  in  flour; 
boil  them  together  till  diere  is  juft  enough  for  fauce^ 
then  put  in  die  turnips,  give  them  a  boil  up,  pour  them 
over  the  meat,  and  fend  it  to  table.  You  may  fry  the 
turnips  of  a  light  brown,  and  tofs  them  up  for  fauce; 
but  that  is  according  to  your  palate. 

For  a  change,  you  may  leave  out  the  turnips,  and 
add  a  bunch  of  celery  cut  and  wafhed  clean,  and  flewed 
in  a  very  little  water  till  it  is  quite  tender,  and  the  water 
almoft  boiled  away.  Pour  the  gravy,  as  before  di- 
rected, into  it,  and  boil  it  up  till  the  fauce  is  good.  Or 
you  may  leave  both  thefe  out,  and  add  truffles,  morels, 
frefh  and  pickled  mufhrooms,  and  artichoke  bottoms. 

A  fhoulder  of  veal  without  the  knuckle,  half  roafled> 
very  quick  and  brown^  and  then  done  like  the  mutton,' 

eats 


M    U    T    T    O    K  I4J 

eats  well.    Do  not  garnifh  your  mutton^  but  garnifh 
your  veal  with  bacon. 

To  boil  a  Shoulder  of  Mutton  and  Onion  Sauce.  Put 
your  Ihoulder  in  when  the  water  is  cold;  when  enough, 
fmother  it  with  onion  (auce,  made  the  fame  as  for  boiled 
ducks.    You  may  drefs  a  ihoulder  of  veal  the  fame 

I        way. 

Breqfi  of  Mutton  grilled.  Half  boil  it,  fcorc  it, 
pepper  and  fait  it  well,  rul)  it  with  yolk  of  egg,  ftrcw 
on  crumbs  of  bread  and  chopped  parfley;  broil  it, 
or  roaft  it  in  a  Dutch  oven.  Serve  it  up  with  caper 
fauce. 
,  A  Bafque  (?/ Mutton.    Lay  the  caul  of  a  leg  of  veal 

i  in  a  copper  dilh  of  the  (ize  of  a  fmall  punch-bowl,  and 
take  the  lean  of  a  leg  of  mutton  that  has  been  kept  a 
week.  Having  chopped  it  exceedingly  fmall,  take  half 
its  weight  in  beef  mairow,  the  crumb  of  a  penny  loaf^ 
the  rind  of  half  a  lemon  grated,  half  a  pint  of  red  wine, 
two  anchovies,  and  the  yolks  of  four  eggs.  Mix  it  as 
you  would  faufage-meat,  and  lay  it  in  the  caxil  in  the 
inlide  of  the  difh ;  fallen  the  caiil,  bake  it  in  a  quick 

I  oven,  and  when  it  comes  out,  lay  your  diih  upfide  down, 
and  turn  the  whole  out.  Pour  over  it  brown  gravy  j 
pour  veniibn  fauce  into  a  boat,  and  make  ufe  of  picklea 
for  garniih. 

Ftllet  ^/Mutton  with  Cucumbers.  Provide  one  large 
or  two  fmall  necks  of  mutton^  cut  off  a  good  deal  of  the 

!  fcrag,  and  the  chine  and  fpay  bones  clofe  to  the 
ribs,  tear  off  the  fat;  beat  the  mutton  with  your 
cleaver,  that  it  may  lay  neat  in  your  dlfhi  foak  it  in  a 

I         marinade,  and  roaft  it  wrapped  up  in  paper  well  butter^ 

\         cd.   For  your  fauce  in  the  ipring  and  fummer,  quarter 

i  I  fome 


144  MUTTON.- 

Ibme  cucumbers  nicely,  and  fiy  them  in  a  bit  of  butter, 
after  laying  in  the  fame  maiinade ;  dew  them  in  a  ladle 
or  two  of  your  cuUis,  a  morfel  of  Ihallot  or  green  onion, 
pepper  and  fait,  a  little  minced  {)arfley,  the  juice  of  a 
lemon,  and  fcrve  it.  The  only  difference  between  this 
and  the  cclcry-fauce  i$,  inftead  of  frying  your  celery, 
boil  it  very  tender  in  a  little  water,  or  broth  if  you  have 
plenty,  and  (lew  it  for  a  quarter  of  an  hour.  Be  cau- 
tious you  do  not  break  the  cucumbers. 

To  French  a  hind  Saddle  of  Mutton.  It  is  the  two 
chumps  of  the  loins.  Cut  off  the  rump,  and  carefully 
lift  up  the  (kin  with  a  knife,  beginning  at  the  broad  end, 
but  be  fure  you  do  not  crack  it  nor  take  it  quite  off; 
then  take  fome  dices  of  ham  or  bacon  chopped  fine,  k 
few  truffles,  fome  young  onions,  fome  parfley,  a  little 
thyme,  fweet  marjoram,  winter  favory,  a  little  lemon-, 
ppel,  all  chopped  fine,  a  little  mace,  and  two  or  three 
cloves  beat  fine ;  half  a  nutmeg,  and  a  little  pepper  and 
lalt.  Mix  all  together  and  throw  over  the  meat  where 
you  took  off  the  ikin ;  then  lay  on  the  (kin  again,  and 
iaften  it  with  two  fine  fkewers  at  each  fide,  and  roll  it  in 
well  buttered  paper.  It  will  take  two  hours  roafling ; 
theti  take  off  the  paper,  bafte  the  meat,  ftrew  it  all  over 
with  crumbs  of  bread,  and  when  it  is  of  a  fine  brown, 
take  it  up.  For  fauce,  take  fix  large  ihallots,  cut  them 
very  fine,  put  them  into  a  faucepan  with  two  fpoonfuls' 
of  vinegar,  and  two  of  white  wine ;  boil  them  for  a  mi- 
nute or  two,  pour  it  into  the  difli,  and  garnilh  with 
horfe-radilh. 

To  drefs  a  Saddle  a  St.  Menehout.     Take  the  Ikin  oflT 
the  hind  part  of  a  chine  of  mutton,  lard  it  with  bacon, 
fcafon  it  with  pepper,  fait,  mace,  beaten  cloves,  and  nut- 
meg. 


M    U    T    T    O    N,  145 

meg,  Iwect  herbs,  young  onions,  and  parfley,  all  chop- 
ped fine  5  take  a  large  oval  or  gravy-pan,  lay  layers  of* 
bacon,  and  then  layers  of  beef  all  over  the  bottom  5  lay 
in  the  mutton,  then  layers  of  bacon  on  the  mutton,  and  * 
then  a  layer  of  beef  j  put  in  a  pint  of  wine,  and  as  much 
g6od  gravy  as  will  ftew  it ;  put  in  a  bay  leaf  and  two  or 
three  (ballots,  and  cover  it  clofe  j  put  fire  over  and  un- 
der it,  if  you  have  a  clofe  pan,  or  put  it  in  an  oven,  and 
let  it  ftew  for  two  hours  j  when  done,  ftrew  crumbs  of 
bread  all  over,  and  put  it  into  the  oven  to  brown ;  ftrain 
die  gravy  it  was  ftewed  in,  and  boil  it  till  there  is  juft 
enough  for  fauce  1  lay  the  mutton  into  a  difh,  polir  the 
fauce  in,  and  ferve  it  up.   If  you  have  not  an  oven,  you 
muft  brown  it  before  a  fire. 

Saddle  of  Mvrr on  matted.  Take  up  the  Ikin,  fcarify 
the  meat,  and  ftick  in  it  diced  fat  livers,  trufBes,  fi^Ih 
pork,  diced  onions  and  anchovies;  cover  all  ov'er  with  a 
good  force-meat,  made  of  ralped  lard,  fuct  or  marrow^ 
fwect  herbs  chopped,  muflirooms,  pepper  and  fait,,  and 
three  yolks  of  eggs,  all  pounded  together ;  cover  it 
over  with  the  flcin  well  fattened,  braze  it  (with  Ae  ficin 
undermoft)  with  broth,  and  a  faggot  of  Iweet  herbs ; 
When  done,  reduce  the  fauce  to  a  glaze.  Glaze  all 
die  upper  fide. 

MutTON  a-la-Malntenon.  Cut  fonae  Ihort  ^fteaks 
from  a  leg  of  mutton,  make  a  force-meat  with  crumbs 
of  bread,  a  little  fuct  chopped,  or  a  bit  of  butter,  lemon 
peel  graced,  Ihred  parfley,  pepper,  fait,  and  nutmeg, 
mix  them  up  with  the  yolk  of  an  egg ;  pepper  and  fait 
the  fteaks,  lay  on  the  force-meat ;  butter  fomc  half  dieets 
of  writing  paper,  in  each  wrap  up  a  ftcak,  twitting  the 
paper  neatly  j  fry  them,  or  do  them  in  a  Dutch  oven  j 
Vot.  IL  U  fcnrc 


1 


h6  mutton. 

ferve  them  in  the  paper,  a  little  gravy  m  the  diihj  land 
ibme  in  a  boat.     Garnifh  with  pickles. 

ChiHe  of  Mutton  with  Cucumber  Sauce.     You  muft 
provide  the  two  fore-quarters  of  mutton,  fmall  and  fat  j 
cut  it  down  the  fides,  and  chop  through  the  Ihoulders 
and  breafts,  fo  that  it  may  lay  even  in  your  diih ;  raife 
the  fldn  all  off,  without  cutting  or  tearing ;  fcrape  a  lit- 
-  tie  fat  bacon,  and  take  a  litde  thyjne,  marjoram,  favory, 
parfley,  three  or  four  green  onions,  a  mufhroom  or  two, 
and  a  Iballot  i  mince  all  very  fine,  and  fry  them  gcndy 
in  the  bacon  -,  add  a  litde  pepper,  and  when  it  is  almoft 
cold,  .with  a  pafte  brufh  daub  it  all  oyer  the  back  of 
your  meat,  flcewer  the  (kin  over  it,  Ipit  it  widi  three  or 
four  large  (kewers,  and  wrap  fome  paper  over  it  well 
buttered ;  roaft  it  enough  very  gendy,  and  for  fauce  pro- 
vide fome  cucumbers,  (if  in  fcafon)  nicely  quartered 
and  fried  in  a  bit  of  butter  to  a  brown  colour  5  ftrain 
them  upon  a  fieve  for  a  minute  or  two,  and  put  them 
into  a  ladle  or  two  of  your  cuUis  j  boil  them  a  litde 
while,  and  throw  in  fome  minced  parfley,  the  juice  of  a 
•  lemon,  and  fcrvt  it  up.     For  your  fauce  of  herbs,  pre- 
pare juft  fuch  matters  as  are  fried  for  the  firft  part  of  it; 
take  a  ftewpan  with  as  much  of  your  cullis  as  is  neceflary, 
and  ftrew  all  in,  and  boll  about  half  an  hour  very  foftly; 
take  the  paper  and  flcin  off  your  chine,  and  fend  it  to 
table  with  the  fauce  poured  over  it,  adding  the  juice  of 
a  lemon ;  and  iafte  it  to  try  if  it  is  well  flavoured. 

Mutton  kumps  and  Kidneys.  Boil  fix  flieeps'  rumps 
in  vcal  gravy,  then  lard  your  kidneys  with  bacon,  and 
fet  them  before  the  fire  in  a  tin  oven  j  when  the  rump^ 
are  tcndcr,^  rub  them  over  with  the  yolk  of  an  egg, 
a  lltrie  kyan  and  grated  nutmeg ;  flcim  the  fat  off^  the 
the  gravy,  put  it  in  a  clean  toflli\g-pan,   with  three 

^  ounces 


MUTTON.  147 

ounces  of  boiled  rice,  a  Ipoonful  of  good  cream,  a  litdltf 
mufhroom-powdcr  or  catchup,  thicken  it  with  flour 
and  butter,  and  give  it  a  gentle  boil  -,  fry  your  rumps  a 
little  brown.  When  you  difli  them  upj  lay  them  round 
on  your  rice,  fo  that  the  fmall  ends  may  meet  in  thfe 
middley  and  l&y  a  kidney  between  every  rump*  Gar^^ 
niih  with  red  cabbage  or  barberries,  and  ferve  it  tip; 
It  is  a  pretty  fide  or  corner  dilh. 

Another  way.  Stew  half  a  dozen  rumps,  in  (bme 
mutton  gravy,  more  than  will  cover  them  1  let  them 
ftew  gently  for  half  an  hour,  take  them  up  and  fet  theni 
to  cool ;  put  into  the  gravy  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of 
boiled  rice,  an  onion  (hick  with  cloves,  and  a  blade  of 
mace  $  let  it  boil  till  the  rice  is  very  thick ;  take  the 
rumps  and  rub  them  over  with  die  yolk  of  an  egg  wcU 
beat,  and  then  ftrew  in  crumbs  of  bread,  a  little  pepper^ 
fait,  grated  nutmeg,  and  lemon-peel,  and  a  very  little 
thyme  5  fry  them  in  butter  of  a  fine  brown.  When  the 
rumps  are  ftewing,  lard  fome  kidneys,  and  fet  them 
in  a  tin  oven  to  roall. 

When  the  rumps  are  fried,  take  them  out  to  drain^ 
poxir  the  fat  out  of  the  frying-pan^  put  in  the  rice;  ftir 
it  all  together  round  the  pan,  and  then  lay  the  rice  in 
the  difh;  lay  the- rumps  round  upon  the  rice,  the  nar- 
row ends  to  meet  in  the  middle ;  boil  four  eggs  hard^ 
cut  them  in  quarters,  and  lay  the  kidneys  and  hard  eggs 
upon  the  rice  between  the  rumps. 

Mutton  Rumps  a-la-haife.  Boil  (ix  mutton  rumps 
for  fifteen  minutes  in  water ;  then  take  them  out  and 
cut  them  in  two,  and  put  them  into  a  ftewpan,  with 
half  a  pint  of  good  gravy,  a  gill  of  white  wine,  an  onion 
ftuck  with  cbvcs>  and  a  litde  fait  and  kyan  pepper,  Co«^ 

U  a  vcr 


I4f  M    U    T    T    O    N, 

yer  &em  clofej  and  dew  them  till  ihcy  are  tender. 
X^ke  them  and  the  cyiion  out^  and  thicken  the  gravy 
with  a  little  butter  rolled  in  0puri  a  ippoftful  of  biown« 
ing>  and  the  juice  of  half  a  lemon.  Boil  i^up  till  it  is 
£iiooth,  but  not  tdo  ch^cki  then  put  ki  your  rumpsn 
give  them  a  top  or  tvo>  ^nd  d^  them  up  hi>t.  Gar* 
nifli  with  horfe-radifli  and  bcetwoot.  For  variety^  yoo 
may  leave  the  rumps  whole^  ^Ad  1^  fix  kidneys  on  one 
fide^  and  do  diem  the  fame  as  the  rumps^  only  not  boU 
thedti^  and  put  the  rumps  in  the  nuddle  of  the  dilbj  an4 
kidneys  round  them9  ^tfh  the  £uice  over  alL  f^  ^^^ 
ncys  make  a  predy  fide  difli  of  themfdves. 

To  hajb  Mutton.  Cut  your  mutton  in  little  bits  aa 
ts  thin  as  you  can^  flrew  a  little  flour  over  it }  have 
ready  fbme  gravy  (eiu>ugh  for  fauce)  wherein  fweei 
herbs^  omon,  pPppcr^  and  fak  have  been  boiled  y  Ibaiii 
itj  put  in  your  meat,  with  a  piece  of  better  rolled  io 
flour^  and  a  little  fak>  a  fhallot  cut  ikie^  a  few  capera 
and  gerkins  chppped  fine;  tofs  ^11  togedier  for  a  minut^ 
or  two;  have  ready  fbme  bread  toadied  and  cut  into  thii^ 
fippejts,  lay  them  round  the  diih>  and  pour  in  your  haih^ 
Garnifh  your  diih  with  pickles  and  horfe-radifh* 

Some  love  a  glals  of  red  wine  or  walnut  pickle.  You 
may  put  jufl  what  you  will  int^  a  hafii.  If  (he  fippets 
are  toafted  it  is  better. 

AuMthtr  wqy.  Cut  mutton  into  fiicesj  put  a  pint  of 
gravy  or  broth  into  a  tofling-pan,  with  one  fpoonful  of 
mufliroom  catchup^  and  one  of  browning;  flice  in  an 
Onion,  a  litde  pepper  and  fait,  put  it  over  the  fire,  and 
thicken  it  with  flour  and  butter ;  when  it  boils>  put  in 
your  mutton,  keep  fbaking  it  till  it  is  thoroughly  hot^ 
put  it  into  a  fbup  difl}^  and  ferve  it  up^ 

JnotbiT 


MUTTON,  149 

Another  way.  Put  9Xi  onion  into  fome  gravy^  widi 
ibme  pepper  and  f^t^  a  little  catchup  or  walnut  pickle  § 
thicken  this  a  little  with  ibme  flouo  boil  it  a  few  nu« 
ntitess  take  out  the  onion>  put  in  the  mutton  cut  thin^ 
^ny  gravy  that  may  have  run  fronn  itj  and  a  little  gar- 
lic vinegar  $  juft  fimmer  itup^  fhaking  it  till  thoroughly 
hotj  but  do  not  let  it  boil^  for  (hat  makes  all  hafhe^ 
hard.  G^nifli  with  pickles^  If  there  is  no  gravy^  boil 
the  mutton  bones  with  an  onion^  or  a  dove  or  two^  a 
bit  of  lemon-peel,  a  bun^  of  fweet  herbsj  and  a  few 
pepper  corns ;  ftrain  it. 

Ji  bajh  Cold  Mutton,  Cut  your  mutton  with  a  very 
iharp  knife  in  very  litde  bits,  as  thin  as  poffible;  then 
boil  the  bones  with  an  onion,  a  litde  fweet  herbs,  a  blade 
of  mace^  a  very  litde  whole  pepper,  a  little  fait,  a  piece 
of  cruft  toafted  very  crifpi  let  it  boil  till  there  is  juft 
enough  for  fau^e,  ftrain  it,  and  put  it  into  a  faucepant' 
with  a  piece  of  butter  rolled  in  fk>ur  j  put  in  the  meat) 
when  it  is  very  hot,  it  is  enough.  Seafon  with  pepper 
9nd  fait.  Have  ready  fome  thin  bread  toaft^  brown, 
oit  three-corner  ways,  ky  them  round  the  difh,  and 
pour  in  th^  hafh.  As  to  walnut  pickle,  and  all  forts  of 
pickles,  you  muft  put  in  according  to  your  fancy.  Gar* 
nifk  with  pickles.  Some  love  a  fmall  onion  peeled,  cut 
very  finall,  and  done  in  the  hafb.  Or  you  may  ufe 
inade  gravy  if  you  have  not  time  to  boil  the  bones. 

Oxford  John.  Take  a  flale  leg  of  mutton,  cut  it  in  as 
thin  coUops  as  you  pofTibly  can,  take  out  all  the  fat 
Jinews,  feafon  them  with  mace,  pepper,  and  falt^  flrew 
WK>ng  them  a  little  fhred  parfley,  thyme,  and  two  or 
three  fhallots;  put  a  good  lump  of  butter  into  a. flew-' 
paiu    When  it  is  hot>  put  in  all  your  collops,  keep  flir* 

ring 


15*  MUTTON. 

ring  them  with  a  wooden  fpoon  till  they  arc  three  par« 
done,  then  add  half  a  pint  of  gravy,  a  little  juice  cf 
lemon,,  thicken  it  a  little  with  flour  and  butter,  let  them 
fimmer  four  or  five  minutes,  and  they  will  be  quite 
enough.  If  you  let  them  boil,  or  have  them  ready 
before  you  want  them,  they  will  grow  hard.  Serve 
them  up  hot,  with  fried  bread  cut  in  dice,  over  and 
round  them. 

A  Hodge-podge  of  Mutton.  Cut  a  neck  or  loin  of 
mutton  into  (leaks,  take  off  all  the  fat,  then  put  the 
(leaks  into  a  pitcher,  with  lettuce,  turnips,  carrots,  two 
cucumbers  cut  in  quarters,  four  or  five  onions,  and  pep- 
per and  fait 5  you  mud  not  put  any  water  to  it,  and  flop 
the  pitcher  very  clofe,  then  fet  it  in  a  pan  of  boiling  wa« 
ter,  let  it  boil  four  hours,  keep  the  pan  fupplied  witK 
fi-efh  boiling  water  as  it  waftes. 

Mutton  Cutlets^  Lover's  fajhion.  Make  the  cutlets 
pretty  thick,  lard  them  with  ham  and  bacon,  then  give 
them  a  few  turns  in  a  little  butter,  chopped  parfley,  and 
a  litde  winter  favory;  then  put  them  in  a  ftewpan,  with 
finall  bits  of  ham,  fliced  onions,  carrots,  and  parfnips> 
which  you  fird  give  a  fry  in  oil  or  butter;  add  a  gla(s  of 
white  wine  and  a  little  cuUis.  When  done,  (kim  the 
fauce,  and  ferve  with  all  the  roots  and  ham. 

Mutton  Cutlets  en  Surtout,  or  in  Difguife.  Cut  cut- 
lets in  the  common  way,  and  fimmer  them  with  broth 
to  about  three  parts,  with  a  faggot  of  fweet  herbs }  re- 
duce the  fauce  till  no  more  remains  than  what  will  bathe 
the  cutlets;  garnilh  them  with  force-meat  round,  made 
of  fillet  of  veal,  (uet,.  chopped  parfley,  (ballots,  pepper 
and  fait,  and  bread  crumbs  foaked  in  cream,  all  being 
well  pounded)  add  three  yolks  of  eggs,  then  bafte  youf 

cudets 


MUTTON*  151 

cutlets  with  eggs  and  bread  crumbs ;  b^ke  in  the  oven 
till  of  a  good  colour  j  ferve  with  confommee  iauce^ 
gravy,  &c. 

Mutton  Chops  in  Difguife.  Take  as  many  mutton 
chops  as  you  want;  rub  them  with  pepper,  fait,  nut- 
meg, and  a  little  parfley  5  roll  each  chop  in  half  a  (heet 
of  white  paper,  well  buttered  on, the  infide,  and  rolled 
on  each  and  clofe.  Have  fome  hogs  lard,  or  beef  drip* 
ping,  boiling  in  a  flewpan;  put  in  the  fteaks,  fry  themi 
of  a  fine  brown,  lay  them  in  your  difh,  and  garnilh 
with  fi-ied  parfleyj  throw  fome  all  over,  have  a  little 
good  gravy  in  a  cup,  but  take  great  care  you  do  not 
break  the  paper,  nor  have  any  fat  in  the  difh;  but  let 
thenn  be  well  drained. 

To  broil  Mutton  Steaks.  Cut  yourfleaks  half  an  inch 
thick;  when  your  gridiron  is  hot,  rub  it  with  frefh  fuet, 
lay  on  your  fteaks,  keep  turning  them  as  quick  as  polli- 
ble ;  if  you  do  not  take  great  care,  the  fat  that  drops 
from  them  will  fmoak  them.  When  they  are  enough, 
put  them  into  a  hot  difh,  rub  them  well  with  butter, 
nice  a  fhallot  very  thin  into  a  fpoonflil  of  water,  pour  ic 
on  them  with  a  fpoonful  of  mufhroom  catchup  and  fait j 
ferve  them  up  hot. 

Mutton  Steaks  baked.  Cut  a  loin  of  mutton  into 
fteaks,  feafon  them  with  pepper  and  fa't,  butter  a  difh 
and  lay  them  in;  take  a  quart  of  milk,  fix  eggs  well 
beat,  and  four  fpoonfuls  of  flour;  beat  the  flour  and  egg 
together  in  a  litde  milk,  and  then  put  the  reft  to  it;  put 
in  fome  beaten  ginger  and  fait,  pour  it  over  the  fteaks. 
Half  an  hour  will  bake  it. 

Sheeps*  TongueSy  Province  fajhion.  Fry  fliced  onions 
m  butter  f  when  half  done,  add  a  little  flour,  chopped 

par-^ 


tfi  M   t;   t   T   O   N. 

pftrflefy  a  clove  of  garlic,  pepper  and  falty  a  Ctflc  cuf* 
Ksj  and  a  g1a(s  of  white  wine;  let  it  ftew  till  the  onions 
are  done,  then  add  as  many  fplit  tongues  (being  ready 
boiled)  as  you  think  proper;  ftew  them  a  quarter  of  an 
kour  in  the  fauce;  ferve  all  together.  Garnifh  the  difh 
'With  fried  bread. 

Sbeeps*  Tongues^  as  Fricanieau.  Boil  them  three 
parts,  peel  and  lard  them,  then  ftew  them  in  good 
gravy,  with  a  faggot  of  Iweet  herbs,  three  cloves,  and 
a  flice  of  ham.  When  done,  reduce  the  fauce  to  a 
glaze,  and  glaze  them  as  a  fiicandeau* 

Shieps*  Tongues,  Royal  fajhion.  Boil  as  the  fbrmcri 
then  lard  them  quite  through;  marinade  them  an  hour 
in  a  little  pepper  and  fait,  chopped  parfley,  Ifaallots,  and 
mufhrooms;  put  a  few  dices  of  lard  under  and  over,  add 
a  little  gravy,  a  glafs  of  white  wine,  with  ail  the  fea* 
ibnings. .  When  done,  take  out  the  dices  of  lard,  ikim 
the  fauce,  add  a  little  cuUis,  or  butter  rolled  in  flour, 
ihc  juice  of  half  a  lemon,  and  fervc  it  upon  the  tongues, 

Sheeps^  Tongues y  plain  Family  fajhion.  Split  ready  boi- 
led tongues  in  two;  marinade  in- melted  butter,  pepper 
and  fait,  chopped  parfley,  and  ftiallots;  roll  them  ii\ 
bread-crumbs,  and  broil  them  dowly;  ferve  them  widi 
a  fauce  made  of  a  fpoonful  of  vinegar,  a  bit  of  butter 
rolled  in  flour  and  broth,  grated  nutmeg,  and  chop- 
ped fhallots;  reduce  the  fauccj  and  kxYC  it  imder  die 
tongues. 

Sheeps*  Trotters  of  different  fajhions.  When  well  fed-, 
ded,  boil  them  in  water  till  you  can  take  out  the  great 
bone;  then  fpiit  and  clean  them  properly;  boil  them 
again  till  they  are  very  tender,  and  drcfs  them  in  what 

man* 


NAIL    S.  J5J 

manner  you  pleafe,  either  as  a  fricaflec,  or  with  a  cullis 
fauce,  &c.  taking  care  to  make  the  fauce  relifhing. 

Sheeps*  Trotters  fried  in  pafie.  The  trotters  being  firft 
brazed  or  ftewed,  bone  them  without  cutting  them; 
roll  them  in  good  force-meat,  then  dip  them  in  thick 
batter  made  of  flour,  white  wine,  one  egg,  and  a  little 
oil,  pepper,  and  fait ;  fiy  them  of  a  good  colour,  and 
garnilh  with  fried  parfley. 

Sheep!?  Trotters  Afpic.  Alpic  is  a  ftiarp  fauce  or  jelly, 
wherein  is  commonly  ufed  elder  or  tarragon  vinegar, 
chopped  ♦  parfley,  fliallots,  taitagon  leaveSj^  pepper  and 
fait,  oil,  muftard,  lemon.  Any  forts  of  cold  meat,  poul* 

try  or  game  nwy  be  ferved  in  afpic,  either  hot  or  cold. 


N, 


NAILS* 


« 

x4 


A  material  ufc  of  the  nails  is  to  ftrengthcn  the  ends 
of  the  fingers  and  toes,  and  to  hinder  them  from  being 
inverted  towards  the  convex  fide  of  the  hand  or  foot, 
when  we  handle  or  prefe  •  upon  any  thing  hard.  The 
extremity  of  the  nail  does  not  adhere  to  any  thing,  and 
grows  as  often  as  it  is  cut.  The  colour  is  owing  to  the 
veffels  underiieath  the  nail,  the  body  of  which  is  tranf- 
parent,  and  exhibits  a  lively  red  in  a  ftate  of  health. 

To  preferve  the  nails  in  a  ftate  of  elegance,  you  muft 
take  care  never  to  foak  the  fingers  either  in  oily  or  acid 
liquors;  refigning  them  to  the  operation  of  that  natural 
^  VoL.n.  X  balfam 


I  j4  N    A    I    L    6. 

balfam  which  nouriihes  them^  and  by  the  means  of  which 
thefe  borders  increafe  and  are  renewed. 
^  That  blacknefs  which  fometimes  gathers  between  the 
flefli  and  the  top  of  the  nail,  may  be  removed  by  brui* 
fing  two  or  three  6)m  grapes,  and  rubbing  the  juice  upon 
the  part. 

The  nails  are  often  renHered  crooked  by  ufing  a  tooth 
pick,  pin,  or  ear  pick,  to  take  away  the  dirt  that  giathera 
between  the  extrentiity  of  the  nail  and  flefh,  which  makes 
the  extremity  leparate  from  itt  wd  aflume^  a  hook-like 
forpn. 

When  they  are  allowed  to  grow  too  long,  the  nails 
arc  very  ugly  j  but  you  ihoukl  take  care,  in  cutting 
them,  not  to  make  them  too  fhort.  Their  edges  fhould 
never  be  cut  down  below  the  ends  of  the  fingers,  nor 
Ihould  they  be  fuffered  to  grow  longer  than  the  fingers. 

When  the  nails  are  accuftomed  to  be  kept  very  fliort, 
the  flefh  at  the  top  of  the  fingers  is  apt  to  rife  above 
them  in  the  form  of  a  pad,  which  becomes  an  excres- 
cence, and  a  real  deformity;  befidea  being  always  ac- 
_companied  with  dirt  entangled  about  it,  .which  fticks  ib 
clofe  diat  there  is  no  wafhing  it  away.  It  is  a  deformity 
not  eafily  to  be  corre£bed^  on  account  of  the  pain  which 
die  nail  occafions  when  growing,  by  pufhing  againft  die 
flefli  which  overgrows  it,  and  compelling  you  to  cut 
the  nail  when  it  becomes  of  that  length,  and  thus  the 
deformity  continues. 

The  nails,  from  a  fuperfluity  of  nutriment,  may  be- 
come too  large  and  thick.  To  remedy  this,  fcrape 
them  gently,  but  pretty  ofcen^  with  a  bit  of  glafs,  or  a 
i^ry  iharp  knife,  taking  care  not  to  go  too  deep,  fbrftar 


NERVOUS   £)ISORDER$*        ij^ 

of  hurtihg  th<!  membrane  which  lines  the  infide  of  the 
nail,  and  which  abounds  with  tendinous  fibres^  extremely 
fufceptible  6(  pain. 

When  nails  become  blacky  in  confequencc  of  a  bruife, 
or  other  accident,  you  may  apply  a  p)^r  made  with 
capon's  greafe,  and  oil  of  camomile,  each  one  dram; 
flour  of  fulphur,  two  ferules  j  powder  of  cummin 
feed,  ten  grains;  oil  of  rofes,  a  ferxiple;  tlicorporate 
them  into  a  plafter  with  a  flifficient  quantity  of  dia« 
chyloii. 


NASTURTIUMS.— See  Picklino. 


NERVOUS   DISORDERS. 

A  volume  would  be  infufEcient  to  defcribe  the  vari- 
ous forts  of  nervous  complaintSj  and  the  different  appear- 
ances they  aflume  s  for  they  imitate  almoft  every  difeafe^ 
and  are  conilantly  changing  ihape :  nor  is  the  mind  leis 
afieftcd  by  them  than  the  body. 

They  may  arife  from  :wrhatever  has  a  tendency  to  relax 
or  weaken  the  body^  as  indolence,  on  the  one  hand,  or 
too  much  application  or  thought  on  the  other;  grief 
and  difappointments;  exceflive  evacuations  of  whatever 
nature;  drinking  too  much  tea,  or  weak  watery  liquors; 
long  failing,  windy,  crude,  or  tmwholelbmc  food,  or 
aukward  poftures  of  the  body  in  working,  reading,  &c. 
Whatever  weakens  the  body  or  deprefTes  the  fpirits,  as 
unwholefome  air,  want  of  fleep,  great  fatigue,  difagree- 

X  2  able 


15^         NERVOUS    DISORDERS. 

able  apprehenfionsj  or  vexation,  may  occaiion  nervous 
diforders. 

Women  arc  certainly  from  many  caufes  more  fubjed: 

to  thb  tinhappy  complaint  than  the  other  fcx: — ^not  only 

the  peculiar  organization  of  their  frame,  and  the  cafualdes 

they  experience  from  pregnancy,  and  other  incidental 

circumftances,  but  their  very  mode  of  living,  too  ofcea 

lays  the  foundation  of  this  calamity.     The  paffions  of 

the  mind,  of  fome  of  which  they  are  more  powerfully 

fufceptible,  operate  to  the  deftruftion  of  health.     Daily 

examples  fumilh  us  with  melancholy  proofs  of  the  faireft 

ftrudtures  of  health,  and  mod  blooming  conftitutions 

being  overturned  by  an  excefs  of  the  moft  amiable  paf- 

fion  which  aftuates  the  human  mind.     LovCy  though  fo 

noble,  fo  innocent,  and  pleafing,  may,  when  mifplaced 

or  unreturned,  prove  as  injurious  to  health,  as  it  is  too 

often  deftru&ive  of  happinels.     Corroding  care,  opprcf- 

fiye  melancholy,  hypochondriac  difeafes,  the  whole  train 

of  nervous  diforders,  and  too  often  confumption,  fill  the 

fad  cataftrophe  of  dif appointed  love-, — and  on  fuch  occa- 

fion,  medical  afliftance  is  in  vain. 

The  violent  impulfes  of  Anger  are  more  fudden  in  their 
cffefts,  but  they  are  fuch  as  we  hope  the  ladies  fcldom 
experience — but  when  they  have  an  ill  run  at  cards. 

The  indulgence  of  Grief  is  more  fatal  in  its  refult:  the 
effeft' is  uninterrupted,  and  acquires  ftrength  from  du- 
ration ;  its  impreflions  are  made  more  lafting  by  reflec- 
tion; and  the  means  generally  employed  to  turn  its  keen 
edge,  anfwer  litde  other  purpofe  than  to  convert  it  into 
deep  melancholy— the  wretched  forerunner  of  zll  nervous 
€omplaintSy  and  too  often  of  the  confummate  of  huifnan 

mis-* 


.    NERVOUS    DISORDERS.  157 

misfortunes^  the  deprivation  of  thofc  faculties  which 
diftinguifh  the  human  .race  among  the  works  of  Deity, 

In  the  firft  attacks  of  affliftion^  we  ought  not  to  ftem 
the  torrent,  but  let  forrow  have  its  courfej  and  rather 
th^  endeavour  to  prevent  the  effeft,  foothc  the  mind  bj 
participating  the  caufe.  In  the  violence  of  anguifh^ 
nothing  tends  fo  much  to  quiet  the  fpirits^  as  an  appa- 
rent divifion  and  communication  of  misfortune:  aiur- 
viving  parent,  overwhelmed  with  the  lofs  of  a  beloved 
and  afFeflionate  p^tner,  hath  often  been  brought  back 
to  reafon  and  refignation,  by  the  embraces  and  tears  of 
a  darling  child,  when  arguments  of  religion  have  been 
fi-uidefs,  and  the  efforts  of  condolence  unavailing. 

When  the  tumult  of  paffion  fubfides,  when  nature, 
tired  with  the  conflift,  furrenders  the  fufferer  to  the  nc- 
ceflary  though  unwelcome  approach  of  fleep,  watch  the 
nioment  of  waking  with  the  moft  friendly  attention!  ob- 
icrve  the  change  wrought  by  this  fulpenfion  of  forrow, 
and  guard  againft  the  violent  return  of  it,  by  introdu- 
cing interefting  fubjcfts,  and  awakening  the  mind  to  the 
avoc^Ltions  of  bufinefs,  parental  duties,  or  offices  of  hu- 
manity,  to  which  it  is  in  fuch  moments  peculiarly  dif- 
pofed.  Having  fucceeded  in  diverting  the  ftream,  the 
difficulty  of  drying  it  up  will  be  leflened  :  from  bulineis, 
proceed  to  amufement  j  engage  t^ie  faculties  in  conftant 
employment;  and  as  the  objeft  of  grief  prefents  itfelf 
lefs  frequently,  the  effcft  will  be  lefs  feverely  felt,  till  its 
poignancy  be  foftened  to  regret,  and  the  recolleftion 
produce  fenfations  of  melancholy  pleafure. 

But  ^hen  grief  does  not  arife  from  any  immediate 
ilroke  i  when  it  is  occadoned  only  by  difappointment, 
^d  an  untoward  combination  of  the  common  occur- 

fences 


15«         NERVOUS    DISORDERS, 

rcncfcs  of  life,  we  muft  ourfehres  cxcrcife  the  rcafon  vtith 
which  we  are  endowed,  fince  to  yield  to  flich  calamities^ 
Is  to  arraign  the  difpenfations  of  Heaven,  and  repine  at 
being  fubjeft  to  the  ordinary  accidents  of  mortality. 

The  efFefts  of  grief  will  foon  become  vifible  on  the 
ftrongeft  conftitutionj  lofs  of  reft  is  fucceedcd  by  lofi  of 
appetite,  the  neceffary  confequence  of  whicb  is  indigef- 
tion,  flatulencies,  depreflion  of  fpirits,  relaxation,  con- 
ftant  pains  in  the  head  and  fide,  and  flow  or  intermitting 
fevers :  yet  thefe  arc  but  the  diftant  confcquences;  the 
firft  and  more  violent  impreflions  occasion  frenzy,  fufib^ 
Cation,  lethargy,  and  death. 

To  obviate  the  deplorable  effefts  laft  mentioned,  we 
have  already  oflfered  die  beft  directions  which  occur  to 
us :  to  remove  the  canker  when  it  is  flowly,  and  almoft 
imperceptibly,  gnawing  its  way  to  the  heart,  change  of 
air,  and  of  fituation,  objefts  and  employments,  are  the 
.  beft  'remedies  that  can  be  recommended.  Where  the 
condition  of  Kfe  prevents  our  feeking  the  cure  by  thefe 
means,  others  muft  be  fubftituted;  and  when  the  atten* 
tion  once  begins  to  fix  on  a  new  objeft,  it  will  naru- 
rajly  draw  off  from  the  old,  the  mind  will  colleft  itfel^ 
and  exercife  its  powers  in  eager  purfuit  of  die  pleafbre 
which  it  expefts  to  derive  from  this  untafted  fburce,  and 
will  foon  refume  its  vigour,  and  expel  the  dilagrccablc 
and  dangerous  intruder. 

But  when  grief  has  been  fuffered  to  prey  too  lon^ 
when  ft  has  been  too  deeply  rooted  to  be  difpoflcfled  by 
the  charms  of  variety,  or  the  common  expecfients  of 
travelling,  amufements,  and  company;  the  efforts  of 
iu-gument  have  fometimes  been  ufed  with  fliccefe :  and 
comparifon  with  others  fuffering  with  fortitude  the  fkmc 

1  i^>ecie4 


NERVOUS    DISORDER!         i^ 

]pecks  of  calamity,  in  a  iiixire  eminent  degree,  has  in 
ibme  inftances  been  known  to  excite  emulation,  and  lift 
the  ddponding  vi&im  from  the  regions  <A  defpair  to 
thofe  of  expeftation,  hope,  and  reliance. 

Nor  ihould  the  duties  oi  religion  be  omitted ;  a  due 
application  to  which  will  difpole  the  mind  to  fubmit 
without  murmurkig  to  die  ordinary  decrees  of  Provi- 
dence: but  let  it  always  be  remembered,  that  cheerfiil- 
nefi  is  the  refult  of  perfeA  refignation,  and  that  a  me« 
famcholy  and  broken  heart  muft  be  a  very  unacc^tabie 
facrifice  to  that  God,  who  animates  univerfal  nature  widi 
the  light  of  his  countenance. 

Sudden  Fear  produces  violent  ef&fts:  efulepfies  and 
convulfions  arefi^quently  occafioned  by  it;  and  nuny  a 
noble  fabrick  of  hedth  hath  been  deftroyed  in  a  moment, 
by  a  fajie  alarm,  an  un&unded  tale,  or  a  ridiculous  and 
miferable  attempt  at  mirth  and  humour. 

But  where  it  fails  to  a£t  with  fuch  ioimediate  violence^ 
the  impreifions  may  be  equally  injurious,  and  are  in  ge« 
neral  lafting;  the  nervous  fyftem  once  afieded  is  hardly 
ever  perfe&ly  reftored;  and  hyfteric,  hypochondriac, 
and  rtielancholy,  are  the  wretched  companions  for  life^ 
€9f  thofe  who  eicape  the  more  fuddenly  fatal  confer 
quences. 

Tales  of  horror  are  the  common  entertunments  of  a 
fick  room.  Is  a  woman  in  child-birth — every  ftory  of 
hard  labours,  confequential  difbrders,  and  unnatural 
birdis,  is  induftrioufly  recollefbed,  and  recounted  with 
all  the  accompaniments  of  woe  and^xpreffions  of  pity. 
Is  the  patient  feverifh — delirium,  frenzy,  and  every 
aggravating  fymptom,  are  the  ufual  topics  of  converfa^ 
tJODi  nor  can  we  altogether  acquit  the  phyfician  himfelf 

of 


J 


t6o  NERVOUS    DISORDERS. 

of  contributing  to  the  prevalcncy  of  this  uiliiatural  cuf- 
toiii>  when  by  fhnigs,  and  nods,  and  winks,  he  denouti-* 
ces  his  apprehenfions  of  danger,  and  meaning  only  to 
convey  reafbnable  doubt  and  anxiety,  is  underflood  by. 
the  fick  man  to  pronounce  a  (entence  of  death,  which 
his  own  fears  too  often  carry  into  a£tual  execution^    « 

But  whatever  influence  the  paffions  may  have  in  pro- 
duCing  nervous  diforders,  fuch  inftances  of  their  eSeSts, 
we  apprehend,  are  not  very  frequent,  wid  the  complaint 
may  more  properly  be  afcribed  to  another  origin,  an 
acquired  weaknefs  or  debility  of  cdnfiitution. 

To  what  caufe  we  muft  attribute  this  evident  degene^ 
racy  of  conftitution,  may  be  a  point  not  eafily  afcCTtain-- 
cdj  but  we  know  that  the  intempcrature  of  the  air  and 
feafbns,  the  various  accidents  of  life,  and  the  paflions  of 
the  mind  which  afleft  the  conftitution,  have  ever  been 
the  fame  in  all  ages  :-*-we  know  too  that  an  exceffive 
luxury  and  effeminacy  has  for  almoft  a  century  over- 
run and  enervated  the  greateft  part  of  this  country; 
and  that  women  in  particular,  from  an  abfurd  and  mif- 
taken  plan  of  education,  have  more  peculiarly  become 
its  vidkim — before  that  period,  nervous  diforders  were 
extremely  rare,  and  the  Rickets  were  abfolutely  xinknown 
among  us: — to  that  increafing  luxury  we  may  perhaps 
very  jufUy  afcribe  the  degeneracy  of  conftitution  which 
we  lament. 

It  is  not  to  the  article  of  diet,  that  the  charge  of  lux- 
urious innovation  is  confined :  on  the  high  furnifhed  tabic 
there  is  indeed  enough  to  cenfure;  but  the  bedchamber 
has  a  well-founded  claim  to  its  equal  fhare.  Among 
other  pernicbus  pendencies  to  weaknefs,  the  too  general 
pradice  of  laying  long  in  the  morning  is  greatly  coniri- 

butivej 


r 


NERVOUS    DISORDERS.  tU 

butivci  we  do  not  indceci  fuppofe  that  a  ^eater  numbed 
of  hours  are  conAimed  in  fleep ;  but  the  ciiftom  k  too^ 
ofteii  induced  from  the  prafbice  of  protracting  the  time 
of  fupper^  or  frdrtl  art  un^fonable  indulgence  in  fafhio- 
hable  recreation» 

Before  die  introduftion  df  luKury  and  iucb  an  endleft 
train  of  faihionable  and  expenfive  atiuifements,  earlior 
hours  of  going  to  reft  were  certainly  uiiial;  the  confc^ 
iquence  of  whkh  was^  people  role  much  ibdner  in  the 
morning,  ^nd  alntoft  the  whole^  cveii  of  the  Idngeft  dajr 
was  devoted  to  bufinefi^  or  the  amufements  of  ckofo 
times,  which  were  not  of  the  fedentary  kind^  now  in  uie 
among  us.    By  this,  an^  die  fimplicity  of  their  diet, 
their  conftitutions  were  j^eferved  in  full  vigour,  which 
is  Hill  the  cafe  in  the  country,  and  among  llich  of  the 
people  whom  fafliion  has  not  yet  corrupted,  or  whole 
fortunes  do  not  enable  them  to  enter  into  fuch  modes  of 
diflipation.    And  it  is  likely  as  much  owing  to  thefe  cxr- 
cumftances,  as  the  difference  of  air  (o  much  infilled  on, 
that  a  country  life  has  always  been  thought  the  moft 
healthy :  for  We  do  not  find  in  faft  that  fuch  of  the  in« 
habitants  of  great  towns,  who  are  not  luxurious  or  inac- 
tive, are  either  weaker  in  their  conftitutions,  or  more 
difpofed  to  difeafes.    But  whatever  efiedts  may  refult 
from  the  diverlity  of  a  town  and  country  life,  "t  is  cer- 
tain that  there  is  an  infinite  difference  in  point  of  health 
between  a  life  of  aBivity  and  one  of  indolence  j  which  is 
the  whole  that  we  would  infift  upon  j  efpecially  z&  fe- 
male employments,  and  indeed  from  falfe  tafte  and  ab- 
furd  refinement,  their  very  amufements  are  all  of  the 
fedentary  kinds  the  more  they  apply  to  them,  the  more 

Vol.  IL  Y  they 


i6a         NERVOUS    DISORDERS. 

they  require  intenrals  of  exercile ;  for  in  h&,  what  is 
▼ery  unfortunate  for  them>  their  very  induflry  produces 
the  effefts  of  indolence. 

We  have  dius  endeavoured  to  give  a  general  idea  of 
the  caufe  of  Nervous  Dtfordersi  the  more  immediate 
lymptoms  of  which  it  would  be  impoffible  to  enume- 
rate. Wind>  and  diftenfion  or  fweliing  of  the  ftomach 
is  generally  e^cperienced ;  the  appetite  becomes  bad,  the 
food  turns  four  on  the  llomach^  pains  are  felt  about  the 
navel,  and  the  body  is  moftly  coftive.  There  is  fome- 
dmes  a  difficulty  of  breathing,  with  a  flraitneis  of  the 
bread: ;  pain  in  the  back,  yawning,  and  a  fenfe  of  iufib* 
cation,  as  if  from  a  ball  or  lump  in  the  throat:  the  mind 
alfo  becomes  difturbed  on  the  moft  trifling  occalions, 
and  is  hurried  into  the  moft  perverfe  commotions. 

Pcrfons  afHifted  with  nervous  complaints  ought  never 
to  faft  long ;  and  their  food  fhould  be  light  and  nourifh- 
ing: — ^wine,  in  very  moderate  quantities,  ftrengthcns 
the  ftomach,  and  promotes  digeftion : — all  weak  warm 

y liquors  are  hurtful  ^  and  above  all  things,  ipirits  or 
drams  ought  to  be  avoided.  Nervous  people  arc  too 
apt  to  lay  hold  of  the  momentary  relief  afforded  by 
tei  and  ardent  fpirits,  to  which  too  many  of  them  fall 
victims. 

A  cool  dry  air  is  proper,  as  it  invigorates  the  whole 
body: — ^heat,  efpecially  that  of  fires  in  fmall  apartments, 
y  is  peculiarly  relaxing  and  enervating.  Exercife,  in 
•/whatever  nunner  it  can  be  taken,  is  fuperior  to  all  me- 
dicines. Cold  badiing,  when  otherwife  confiftent  with 
fafety,  is  of  all  things  the  moft  ftrengthening  to  the  ner- 
vous lyftetx!. 

1  When 


/ 


i 


I 

r 


NOVEMBER. 


162 


/da 


When  the  body  is  cojiive,  a  little  rhubarb,  or  Ibmc 
of  the  milder  purges,  or  an  infufion  of  fenna  and  rhu- 
barb in  brandy,  may  be  taken ;  but  ftrong  purgatives 
y  muft  be  avoided. 

When  wind  is  troublefome^  twenty  or  thirty  drops  of 
le  acid  elixir  of  vitriol  may  be  taken  twice  or  thrice  a- 
day  in  a  glals  of  water:  this  expels  the  wind,  ftrengthena 
die  ftomach,  and  promotes  digeftion. 

But  for  complaints  of  the  ftomach  in  general,  the 
following  infufion  may  be  ufed  with  great  advantage :— -* 
Take  pf  Peruvian  bark,  one  ounce;  gentian  root,  orange 
y'peel,  and  coriander  feed,  each  half  an  ounce  -,  bruife  them 
weU,  and  infufe  them  in  a  quart  of  brandy  for  five  or  fix 
d^s :  a  table  fpoonfui  may  be  taken  in  half  a  glals 
of  ^ater^  an  hour  before  breakfaft,  dinner,  and  fupper. 
But  whoever  wiifaes  for  a  thorough  cure  in  nervous 
diforders,  muft  expedt  it  from  regimen  alone;  without 
mentioning  any  more  medicines,  we  ihall  conclude  by 
again  recommending  the  ftri£teft  attention  to  Diet,  Jir, 
Exercife,  and  Jmufement. 


NOVEMBER. 

ARTICLES    FOR    THE    TABLE. 


Meat. 

Beef 
Pork 
Muttoa 
Veal 

Chickens 
Dotterels 
Fowls 


Geefe 

Hares 

Larks 

Partridges 

Pheafants 

Pigeons 

Pulleu 

Rabbits 

Snipes 

Teal 


Turkeys 

Wigeons 
Wild  ducks 
Woodcocks 

FJb. 
Barbet 
Carp 
Cockles 
Doree 


Gurnet 

Gudgeons 

iioiobut 

Lobft'ers 

Mufcles 

Oyiiers 

Pike 

Salmon 

Salmoii  trout 


Ya 


Smelts 


164 

Smelti 
Tench 

Beet 

Borecole 

Cabbages 

Cardoons 

Carrots 

Cauliflowers 

Cclerjr 


NOVEMBER. 


Chard  beet' 

ChervU     ' 

CreiTes 

Endive 

Eichalot 

Jenifalem  arti- 
chokes 

Lettuce  &  fmall 
&Uad 

Leeks 

Onions 


Farikjr 

Parfnips 

Potatoes. 

kocombolp 

Salfafy 

Savoys 

Scorzonera 

Skirretii 

Spinach 

Sprouts 

Turhiptf 


Fruity 
Apples 
BmlaDe 
Chefnutf 
Grapes 
Hazieftittf 
Medlars 
Pears 
Walnuts 


1 


>f» » 1 1  #'»'■  < 


DINNERS    OF    TWO    COURSIES. 

Firfi  Courfe. 

Lentel  foup  removed  with 

Pigroaftcd.  aL"/w^_  Ha«  jugged. 


Apple  fauce. 
Pork  fteaks.      Sweetbreads  il-Ia-daube, 


Mutton  rumps  and 

kidneys. 

.  Currants  in  a  faucer.         Cauliflower.  Lobfter  lauce. 

JL  nufed  beef  fteak  pie.  Lemon  pudding. 

Xeg  of  veal  larded. 
Sorrel  £mce.  Greens.  Melted  butter. 

1[r]C9!ifeepf  double  tripe*  Mutton  cutlets  ^-U 

Rabbits  in  furprife.  Maintenon. 

Venilbn  fence. 
Pigeons  in  fancy.  Fowls  Ma:faice« 

Onion  foup  removed 
with  haunch  of  venifon* 


Second  Courfe* 
Pheafant  roafled. 

Grapes. 

Smelts  in  jelly. 


Apricot  fritters, 
Brawn. 


Walnuts. 

Italian  truffles. 

Preferred  cherries. 
Anchovy  and  butter.    Potted  moor  game. 


Salver  with 
jellies. 


Ghcefecake. 


Pears. 
Woodcocks  roafted. 


Piftachio  cream. 

»  > 

Macaroni. 

Preferved  oran^. 

Spinach  and  fried 

bread. 

Chefnuts. 

Sturgeon. 

Apple  tarf. 
DINNERS 


NURSERY,  AND  NURSERY-MAID.      $^5 

PINNERS    OF    THREE    pDUILSESt 


Veal  cutlets. 
Two  chickenf 

mnd  brocolL 
Bipefcoliop. 


Sheep^s  ruinpi, 
Pyuer  loayet  • 
^lanc  ipange* 


Stewed  ppaiSf 

Gallantine. 
f  Ulets  of  whitisgSi 


Firjl  Courfe. 

Difli  of  fifli. 
Roafted  turkey^ 

Vermicelli 
-    foup* 
Chine  of  pork* 

Piflipffiih/ 


Second  Courji, 

Woodcocks. 

Apple  puffs. 

Crocant.  • 

Lemon  tart. 

Hare. 


fbird  Courfe. 

Petit  patties. 

Potted  chars. 

'       Ice  cream. 

Potted  craw-fifli. 

Lambs  ears  ^-la-braife. 


Ox  palates* 
Leg  of  lamb 
fmd  ipinacht 
Harric(v 


Difli  of  jelly* 

Ra£Ooedlobfters* 

Lambs  ears. 


Fried  oyfiers. 

Collared  eeL 

Pippins. 


NURSERY,!  AND  NURSERY  MAID. 

The  nurfcry  ought  to  be  one  of  the  largefl  and  moft 
airy  rooms  in  ahoufes  for  when  children  are  confined  in 
fmall  apartments,  the  air  not  only  becomes  unwhole-^ 
fome,  but  the  heat  relaxes  the  fi>lids,  renders  them  deli- 
cate, and  diipofes  them  to  colds  and  many  other  difbr- 
ders.  Not  one  child  in  five  thoufand  will  continue 
healthy  in  a  dole,  confined  fituatioii  $  though  the  moft 
obftinate  difeafes  have  often  been  cured  by  removing 
them  from  fix:h  places  to  a  free,  open  air*    • 

Thofc 


i66       NURSERY,  and  NURSERY-MAID. 

Tlioie  mothers  whole  peculiar  circumftances  do  not 
prohibit  fuch  a  conduA,  (hould  certainly  not  only  iee 
their  children  carried  abroad  daily,  but  fliould  go  along 
with  them ; — ^they  need  air  as  well  as  their  children,  and 
can  feldom  be  better  employed ;  for  fervants  are  too 
often  criminally  negligent  in  thefe  matters,  and  allow 
children  to  fit  or  lie .  on  the  damp  ground,  ihftead  of 
leading  or  canying  them  about. 

We  have  already  been  very  particular  in  giving  direc- 
tions for  the  management  of  Children: — of  Nurses 
we  muft  obferve,  that  though  they  certainly  engage  to 
take  on  them  the  place  of  a  mother^  yet  that  very  few 
women  who  become  nurfes  for  hire,  will  do  their  duty 
unleis  carefully  looked  after: — it  is  impoflible  they 
Ihould  feel  the  affedtions  of  a  parent  for  their  nur(lings> 
and  they  have  therefore  recourfe  to  every  art  to  hide 
their  negligence.  Inftead  of  promoting  flcep  by  cxer- 
cife,  they  will  induce  it  by  medicines  or  ipirits;  and  a 
nurfe  may  be  always  juftly  fufpefted,  who  is  an  advo- 
cate for  Godfrey's  Cordial,  or  Dafiy's  Elixir.  Wc 
would,  in  one  word,  earneftly  recommend  it  to  all  pa- 
rents to  look  carefully  after  their  children,  and  not 
trufl  fo  valuable  a  treafure  entirely  in  the  hands  of  an 
hireling. 


O.  OCTO. 


[    ««7    ] 


O. 
OCTOBER. 

ARTICLES    FOR    THE    TABLE. 


Mutt^ 

Turkeys 

Beef 

Widgeon 

DocvmCon 

Wild  ducks 

Lamb 

Mutton 

Fifi. 

Pork 

Barbet 

Veal 

BriUs 

P^mltpy. 

Carp 
Cockles 

Chickent 

Doree 

Dotterels 

Gudgeons 
Holobut 

Fowls 

Geefe 

Lobfters 

Hares 

Mufcles 

Larks 

Oyfters 

Partridges 

Pereh 

Pheafants 

Pike 

Pigeons 

Salmon  trout 

Pullets 

Smelts 

Rabbits 

Snipes 

Teil 


PegetalUs* 
Artichokes 


All    forts  of 

herbs 
Beets 
BroccoH 
Carrots 
Cauliflowers 
Celery 
Chard  beets 
ChervU 
Colewort 
Endive 
Efchalot 
Finochia 
Leeks 
Lettuce  &linaU 

fallad 
Muihrooms 
Onions 
Parfnips 
Potatoes 
Rocombole 
Saliafy 


Sa¥oya 

Skirret 

Scorzonera 

Sprouts 

Turnips 

Turnip- footed 
&  black  Spa* 
nifliradiik 

Fruii. 
Apjples 
Bullace 
Fi« 
FiKerts 
Grapes 
Mecilars 
Nuts 
Peaches 
Quinces 
Services 
WabuU 


»        »■!•       »l 


DINNERS    OF    TWO    COURSES. 

Firjl  Courfe. 

Soup  fant^  removed 
with  a  roaft  pike. 


Rabtnts  boiled 
with  onion  fauce* 

Greens. 


Ragooed  celery. 

Marrow  pudding. 
Sbeeps*  trotters  forced. 
Sweet  wine  and  fugar       Breaft  tX  veal 

in  a  boat.  in  a  furtout. 

Chine  of  pork  roafted* 
Apple  iauce. 

PetQr  patties  fried. 
Ducks  i-la  braize. 

Pickles.  Sallad. 

Lobfler  removed 
with  a  faddle  of  mutton. 


Kgeons  in  fcallop 
flielli. 

Potatoes. 

Beef  coUops. 

Melted  butter. 

A  perigoe  turkey. 
Gravy  fauce. 


Turnips  and  carrots. 
Boued  tongue. 


Sec&nd 


168 


O    C    T    O    B    E    IL 


CauUfionrtr  and 
FanndaQ  cheefe* 


Second  Courfe* 

Tfaxee  moor  gameioafieiiL 

jPeacbes. 
Cdlared  pig. 


Sisxlottereh  roafted* 
toTfM  mseecbreads, 
italtaft  cream. 


Hum  tart. 

VotHd  bbfler. 

Grapes. 

Hare  roafied* 


Ctifiardfi 

Two  t(iIa.f«dkaU 

Wabutk 
Forced  inofeiki* 

Blanc  rowij?ff# 


i<<<<i  ■<<<■<  tf  •■ 


DINNERS    OF    THREE    COURSES< 


Jugged 

hare. 

French 

patty. 

Chickens. 


Firfi  Ccurfe. 

Cod  and  oyfterfauce* 
Neck  of  veal 
d-Ia-braifci 
Almond 
foup. 
Tongue  and  udder. 
Broiled  falmon. 


Small 
puddings. 
Fillet  of  beef 
larded  and  roaftKl4 
Torrent  de  rem* 


Stewed  pears. 

Roaft  lobfters. 

White  fricaflee* 


Second  Caurfe* 

Fheaiant. 
Apple  tarts. 

Jellies. 
Cufbrds. 
Turkey. 


Muihrooms. 

Oyiler  loaves« 

fippiBI. 


■<»■♦>  »>.   01  >  i  »  I  »> 


Fried  artichokes. 
Almond  cheefecakes. 
Amlet. 


Third  Courfe* 

Sweetbfiead  iL-la4>mife# 

Potted  eel8« 

Fruit. 

Potted  lobften* 

Lacks. 


Pig's  eaH^ 
Apricot  puffs. 
Foiced  celery. 


OINT- 


•   [     i69    ]         • 

\ 

\ 

OINTMENTS. 

Though  ointments  do  not  heal  wounds  and  fores,  yet 
they  ferve  to  defend  them  from  the  external  air,  and  to 
retain  fuch  fubftances  as  may  be  neceflary  for  drying, 
deterging,  deftroying  proud  flefh,  and  fuch  like.  For 
thefe  purpofes,  however,  it  will  be  fulScient  to  infert 
only  a  few  of  the  moft  fimple  forms,  as  ingredients  of  a 
more  aftive  nature  can  occafionally  be.added  to  them. 

Tellow  Bafilicum  Ointment.  Take  of  yellow  wax, 
white  refin,  and  Burgundy  pitch,  each  a  quarter  of  a 
pound  I  melt  them  together  over  a  gentle  fire  j  then  add 
of  hog*s  lard  prepared,  one  pound  i  ftrain  the  ointment 
while  warm.  This  ointment  is  employed  for  cleanfing 
and  healing  wounds  and  ulcers. 

Ointment  of  Calamine.  Take  of  olive  oil  a  pint  and 
a  half  j  white  wax,  and  calamine  ftone  levigated,  of  each 
half  a  pound.  Let  the  calamine  ftone,  reduced  into  a 
fine  powder,  be  rubbed  with  fome  part  of  the  oil,  and 
afterwards  added  to  the  reft  of  the  oil  and  wax,  previ- 
oufly  meltied  together,  continually  ftirring  them  till 
^  quite  cold.  This  ointment,  which  is  commonly  known 
by  the  name  of  Turner's  Cerate,  is  an  exceeding  good 
application  in  burns  and  excoriations,  from  whatever* 
caufe. 

Emollient  Ointment.  Take  of  palm  oil,  two 
pounds  J  olive  oil,  a  pint  and  a  half;  yellow  wax,  half  a 
pound ;  Venice  turpentine,  a  quarter  of  a  pound.  Melt 
the  wax  in  the  oils  over  a  gentle  fire  j  then  mix  in 
the  turpentine,  and  ftrain  the  ointment.     This  fupplics 

Vol.  II.  Z  the 


170  •  I  N  T  M  E  N  T  S. 

the  place  of  Althsea  Ointment.     It  may  be  ufed  for 
anointing  inflamed  parts,  &c. 

Eye  Ointments.  Take  of  hog*s  lard  prepared,  four 
ounces;  white  wax,  two  drams  j  tutty  prepared,  one 
ounce;  melt  the  wax  with  the  lard  over  a  gende  fire, 
and  then  fprinkle  in  the  tutty,  continually  ftirring  thcnt 
till  the  ointment  is  cold.  This  ointment  will  be  more 
efficacious,  and  of  a  better  confiftence,  if  two  or  three 
drams  of  camphor  be  rubbed  up  with  a  little  oil,  and 
intimately  rtnixed  with  it. 

Another.  Take  of  camphor,  and  calamine  ftone  le- 
vigated, each  fix  drams ;  verdigreafe  well  prepared,  two 
drams;  hog's  lard,  and  mutton  fuet  prepared,  of  each 
two  ounces.  Rub  the  camphor  well  with  the  powder; 
afterwards  mix  in  the  lard  and  fuet,  continuing  the  rub- 
bing till  they  be  perfedly  united.  This  ointment  ha» 
been  long  in  efteem  for  difeafes  of  the  eyes.  It  ought^ 
however,  to  be  ufed  with  caution,  when  the  eyes  are  much 
inflamed,  or  very  tender. 

•  IJjue  Ointment.  Mix  half  an  ounce  of  Spani(h 
flies,  finely  powdered,  in  fix  ounces  of  bafilicum  oint- 
ment. This  ointment  is  chiefly  intended  for  drefling 
blifters  in  order  to  keep  them  open  during  pleafure. 

Ointment  of  Lead,  Take  of  olive  oil,  half  a  pint^ 
white  wax,  two  ounces ;  fugar  of  lead,  three  drams. 
Let  the  fugar  of  lead,  reduced  into  a  fine  powder,  be 
rubbed  with  fome  part  of  the  oil,  and  afterwards  added 
to  the  other  ingredients,  previoufly  melted  together, 
continually  fl:irring  them  till  quite  cold.  This  cooling 
and  gently  aftringent  ointment  may  be  ufed  in  all  cafes 
where  the  intention  is  to  dry  and  fkin  over  the  part,  as 
in  fcalds,  Sec. 

Afrr- 


OINTMENTS.  171 

.  Mercurial  Ointment.  Take  of  quickfilver,  two 
ounces;  hog's  lard,  three  ounces;  mutton  fucc,  one 
ounce.  Rub  the  quickfilver  with  an  ounce  of  the  hog'£ 
lard  in  a  warm  mortar,  till  the  globules  be  perfeftly  ex* 
tinguiihed^  then  rub  it  up  with  the  reft  of  the  lard  and 
fuetj^  previoufly  melted  together.  The  principal  inten- 
tion of  this  ointment  is  to  convey  mercury  i^ito  the  body 
by  being  rubbed  upon  the  fkin. 

Ointment  of  Sulphur.  Take  of  hog's  lard  prepared, 
four  ounces ;  flowers  of  fulphur,  an  ounce  and  a  half; 
crude  fal  ammoniac,  two  drams ;  eflence  of  lemon,  ten  or 
twelve  drops;  majce  them  into  ^n  ointment.  This 
ointmenti  rubbed  upon  parts  affefted,  will  generally 
cure  the  itch.  It  is  both  the  fafeft  and  bed*  application 
for  that  purpofe,  and,  when  made  in  this  way,  has  no 
difagreeable  fmell. 

IVhite  Ointment.  Take  of  olive  oil,  one  pint; 
white  wax  and  fpermaceti,  of  each  three  ounces.  Melt 
them  with  a  gentle  heat,  and  keep  them  conftantly  and 
brifldy  ftirring  tc^ether,  -till  quite  cold.  If  two  drams 
of  camphor,  previoufly  rubbed  with  a  fmall  quantity  of 
oil,  be  added  to  the  above,  it  will  make  the  fVhite  r^/^- 
pboratedOiviTUTiHT. 

Liniment  for  Burns.     Take  equal  parts  of  Florence 
oil,  or  of  frefli  cold-drawn  linfeed  oil,  and  lime-water; 
'  ftiake  them  well  together  in  a  wide-mouthed  bottle,  fo 
as  to  form  a  liniment. 

This  is  found  to  be  an  exceeding  proper  application 
for  recent  fcalds  or  burns.  It  may  either  be  fpread  upon 
a  cloth,  or  the  parts  zSc&td  may  be  anointe<l  with  it 
twice  or  thrice  a-day. 

Z  2  W:it^ 


172  OINTMENTS. 

If'biU  Liniment.  This  is  made  in  the  fame  manner 
as  the  white  ointment,  two  thirds  of  the  wax  bebg  left 
out.  This  liniment  may  be  applied  in  cafes  of  exco- 
riation, where,  on  account  of  the  largcncfs  of  the  fur- 
face,  the  ointments  with  lead  or  calamine  might  be  im- 
proper, 

Unitnent  far  the  Piles.  Take  of  emollient  ointment, 
two  ounces  \  -liquid  laudanum,  half  an  ounce.  Mix 
thefe  ingredients  widi  the  yolk  of  aa  egg,  and  work 
them  well  together. 

Volatile  Liniment.  Take  of  Florence  oil,  an  ounce; 
ipirit  of  hartihorn,  half  an  ounce;  ifaake  diem  tc^* 
then  This  ointment  made  with  equal  parts  of  the  fpirit 
'  and  oil,  will  be  more  efficacious,  where  the  patient's 
ikin  is  able  to  bear  it.  Sir  John  Pringle  obferves,  that 
in  the  inflammatory  quinfey,  a  piece  of  flannel  moiftened 
with  this  liniment,  and  applied  to.  the  throat,  to  be  re- 
newed every  four  or  five  hours,  is  one  of  the  moft  effi- 
cacious remedies  i  and  that  it  feldom  fails,  after  bleed- 
ing, either  to  leflcn  or  carry  oflf  the  complaint.  The 
truth  of  this  obfervation  we  have  often  experienced. 

Camphorated  Oil.  Ruh  an  oiuice  of  camphor,  with 
two  ounces  of  Florence  oil,  in  a  mortar,  tiU  the  cam- 
phor be  entirely  diflblved.  This  antilpafnwdic  lini- 
ment may  be  ufed  in  obftinate  rheumatifm  j  and  in 
fome  other  cafes  accompanied  with  extreme  pain  and 
tenfion  of  the  parts. 


ONION  S— See  Pickling. 


ORAN- 


C     »73     1 


ORANGf  S.«— See  Candying,  Presirvino,  ice. 


ORGEAT. 

• 

Take  two  pounds  of  almonds,  thirty  bitter,  and  beaC 
chem  to  a  pafte  $  mix  it  with  three  quarts  of  water,  and 
llrain  it  through  a  Bne  cloth ;  add  orange  and  lemon^ 
juice,  with  fomd  of  the  peel ;  fweeten  to  your  palate. 

The  above  is  a  very  pleafing  and  refreihing  beverage; 
and  a  fimilar  preparation  may  be  made  from  lemons  in 
the  following  manner: 

Lemonade.  Take  two  Seville  oranges  and  fix  le- 
mons, pare  them  very  thin,  fleep  the  parings  four  hours 
in  two  quarts  of  water  -,  put  the  juice  of  fix  oranges  and 
twdve  lemons  upon  twelve  ounces  of  fine  fugar;  when 
the  fugar  is  melted,  put  the  water  to  it  Add  a  little 
orange  flower  water,  and  more  fugar,  if  neceflary.  Pafs 
it  through  a  bag  till  it  is  fine. 


ORTOLANS. 

Thefc  birds  are  brought  from  France,  and  are  fed  in 
large  cages  with  canary  feed,  till  they  become  a  lump 
of  fat;  and  when  they  are  become  fully  fatted  they  niufl 
be  killed,  or  elfe  they  will  feed  upon  their  own  flefh. 

To  kill  them,  you  mufl  take  them  by  the  beak,  and 
hold  it  clofe  with  your  finger  and  thumb,  and  the  bird 
will  be  flifled  in  about  the  fpace  of  a  minute. 

Then 


174       ORNAMENTAL   DISHES. 

Then  pick  ofF  the  feathers,  even  thofe  of  the  head, 
and  put  a  fine  fkewer  through  them,  juft  under  the 
wings,  and  roaft  them  quick ;  putting  fmall  toafts  in  a 
difli  under  them  to  drip  upon. 

Serve  them  up  with  ftrong  gravy,  and  as  much  white 
wine  made  hot;  garnilh  with  dices  of  lemon  and  raf- 
ping^  of  bread,  fif ted  and  roafted  before  the  fire. 

Or,  fpit  them  fideways,  with  a  vine-leaf  between  i 
bafte  them  with  butter,  and  have  fried  crunibs  of  bread 
round  the  difh, 


ORNAMENTAL   D I S H E S  for  Desertj  and 

Entektainments. 

A  Ftjh'pond.  Fill  one  large  fifh-mould  and  fix  fmall 
ones  with  flummery;  put  half  a  pint  of  ftifF  clear  calfs- 
foot  jelly  into  a  china  bowl  3  let  it  (land  till  cold;  then 
lay  two  of  the  fmall  fifhes  on  the  jelly,  the  right  fide 
down.  Put  in  half  a  pint  more  jelly,  let  it  ftand  till 
cold,  then  lay  in  the  four  fmall  fiflies  acrofs  one  another, 
that  when  you  turn  the  bowl  upfide  down,  the  heads 
and  tails  may  be  feen.  Then  almoft  fiH  your  bowl  widi 
jelly,  and  let  it'ftand  till  cold;  lay  in  the  jelly  four  large 
fifhes,  and  fill  the  bafon  quite  full  with  jelly,  and  let  it 
ftand  till  the  next  day.  When  you  want  to  ufe  it,  fet  your 
bowl  to  the  brim  in  warm  water  for  one  minute ;  take 
care  that  you  do  not  let  the  water  go  into  the  bafon. 
Lay  your  plate  on  the  top  of  the  bafon,  and  turn  it  up- 
fide down.  If  you  want  it  for  the  middle,  turn  it  out 
upon  a  falvcr.     Be  furc  you  make  your  jelly  very  ftiil 

znd  clear. 

A  Float 


ORNAMENTAL  DISHES.        175 

A  Floating  I/land.  Take  a  foup  difli  according  to  the 
fize  and  qiianticy  you  intend  to  m^ke^  but  a  pretty  deep 
glafs  is  beft>  and  fet  it  on  a  china  difh  -,  take  a  quart  of 
thick  crcann,  make  it  pretty  fweet  with  fine  fugar^  pour 
in  a  gill  p(  fack,  grate  the  yellow  rind  of  a  lemon  in, 
and  mill  the  cream  till  it  is  all  of  a  thick  frotii ;  then 
carefully  pour  the  thin  from  the  froth  into  a  difh ;  take 
a  French  roll,  or  as  many  as  you  want,  ctit  it  as  thin  as 
you  can)  lay  a  layer  of  that  as  light  as  poflfible  on  the 
cream,  then  a  layer  of  currant  jelly,  then  a  very  thin 
layer  of  roll,  and  then  hartlhorn  jelly,  then  French  roll, 
and  over  that  whip  your  froth  which  you  have  faved 
off  the  cream  very  well  milled  up,  and  lay  at  the  top 
as  high  as  you  can  heap  it;  and  as  for  the  rim  of  the 
di{h,  fet  it  round  with  fruit  or  fweetmeats  according  to 
your  fancy.  This  looks  very  pretty  in  the  mid- 
dle of  a  table,  with  candles  round  it,  and  you 
may  make  it  of  as  many  different  colours  as  you  fancy, 
and  according  to  what  jellies  and  jams,  or  fweetmeats 
you  may  have  5  or  at  the  bottom  of  the  difti  you  may 
put  the  thickeft  cream  you  can  get;  but  that  is  as  you 
fancy. 

Floating  IJland  of  Apples.  Bake  or  fcald  eight  or  nine 
large  apples;  when  cold,  pare  them,  and  pulp  them 
through  a  fieve ;  beat  this  up  with  fine  fugar ;  put  to  it 
the  whites  of  four  or  five  eggs  that  have  been  beaten, 
with  a  little  rofe  water  j  mix  it  a  litde  at  a  time,  beat 
it  till  it  is  light ;  heap  it  on  a  rich  cold  cuftard,  or  on 
jeUy/ 

Floating  IJland  of  Chocolate.  Take  the  whites  of  two 
eggs,  and  mix  them  up  with  two  ounces  of  chocolate 

fcraped  i  pile  it  on  z,  thin  cuftard  or  jelly. 

ADe^ 


176         ORNAMENTAL   DISHES. 

A  Defert  IJland.  Form  a  lump  of  pafte  into  a  rock 
three  inches  broad  at  the  top^  then  colour  ]t>  and  fet  it 
in  the  middle  of  a  deep  china  difh.  Set  a  caft  figure 
on  \ty  with  a  crown  on  its  had,  and  a  knot  of  rock- 
candy  at  its  feet;  then  make  a  roll  of  pafte  an  inch 
thid^^  and  ftick  it  on  the  inner  edge  of  the  dilh>  two 
parts  round.  Cut  eight  pieces  of  eringo  root5> 
about  three  inches  long,  and  fix  them  upright  to  the  roll 
of  pafte  on  the  edge.  Make  gravel  walks  of  fhot  com- 
fits round  the  difh,  and  fet  fmall  figures  in  them.  Roll 
out  fbme  pafte,  and  cut  it  open  like  Chinefe  rails.'  Bake 
11^  and  fix  it  on  either  fide  of  the  gravel  walks  with 
gum,  and  form  an  entrance  where  the  Chinefe  rails  are^ 
with  two  pieces  of  eringo  root  for  pillars. 

To  make  a. Hedgehog.  Take  two  pounds  of  blanched 
almonds,  beat  them  well  in  a  mortar,  with  a  little  ca- 
nary and  orange  flower  water,  to  keep  them  from  oiling. 
Make  them  into  a  ftiff  pafte,  then  beat  in  the  yolks  of 
twelve  eggs,  leave  out  five  of  the  whites  i  put  to  it  a 
pint  of  cream,  fweetened  with  fugar,  put  in  half  a 
pound  of  fweet  butter  melted,  fet  it  on  a  furnace  or  flow 
fire,  and  keep  it  conftantly  flirring,  till  it  is  ftiff  enough 
to  be  made  in  the  form  of  a  hedgehog }  jthen  ftick  it 
fiiU  of  blanched  almonds^  flit  and  fhick  up  like  the 
brifUes  of  a  hedgehog,  then  put  it  into  a  difh ;  take  a 
pint  of  cream  and  the  yolks  of  four  eggs  beat  up^  fweet- 
ened with  fugar  to  your  palate.  Stir  them  together 
over  a  flow  fire  till  it  is  quite  hot>  then  pour  it  .round 
the  hedgehog  in  a  difh,  and  let  it  ftand  till  it  is  cold^ 
and  ferve  it  up.  Or  ufe  a  rich  calf  s  foot  jelly  made 
clear  and  good  i  pour  it  into  the  difh  round  the  hedge^ 

hog; 


ORNAMENTAL   DISHES.  177 

hog;  and  when  it  is  cold>  it  nnakes  a  pretty  dUh;  or  it 
iooks  well  in  die  middle  of  a  table  for  fupper. 

A  Dijbiff  8mw.  Put  cwelv^e  laige  apples  into  cotd 
vater,  fct  them  over  a  flotw  fire,  and  when  they  are  foft, 
|x>iir  them  upon  a  hair  fieve.  Take  off  the  (kins,  and 
put  the  pulp  into  a  bafoni  dien  beat  the  whites  of  twelve 
eggs  to  a  ^viery  (bong  froth,  beat  and  fift  half  a  pound  of 
double-refined  Ingar,  and  ftrew  it  on  the  eggsj  then  bea^ 
the  pulp  of  your  apples .  to  a  ftrong  froth ;  laftly,  beat 
them  all  together  till  they  are  like  a  fliff  fnow ;  lay  it 
upon  a  china  difh,  and  heap  it  up  as  high  as  you  can. 
Set  round  it  green  knots  of  pafte,  in  imitation  of  Chi- 
nefe  rails,  and  ftick  a  (prig  of  myrde  in  the  middle  of 
the  di(h. 

Moonjkine.  Take'  the  fhapes  of  half  a  moon^  and 
five  or  ievenltars;  wet  them,  and  fill  them  with  flym- 
mery ;  let  them  ftand  till  they  are  cold,  then  turn  them 
•into  a  deep  china  di(h,  and  pour  lemon  cream  round  them> 
ofnade  thus :  Take  a  pint  of  fpring  water,  put  to  it  the 
juice  of  three  lemons,,  and  the  yellow  rind  of  one  lemon; 

\       the  whites  of  five  eggs,  well  beaten,  and  four  ounces  of 

I  Joaf-fugar;  then  (et  it  over  a^ilow  fire,  and  ftir  one  way 
t?n  h  looks  white  and  thick :  if  you  let  it  boil  it  will 
curdle.     Then  ftrain  it  through  a  hair  fieve,  and  let  it 

'  ftand  till  it  is  coldj  beat  the  yolks  of  five  eggs,  mix 
them  with  your  whites,  fet  them  over  the  fire,  and  keep 
ftirring  it  till  it  is  aln(f$^  ready  to  boil,  then  pour  it  into 

I  aba(bn.  When  it  is  cold,  pour  it  among  your  moon 
and  ftars.  Garnifh  with  flowers.  » It  is  a  proper  di(h 
for  a  (ccond  courfe,  either  for  dinner  or  fuj^r. 

j 

Voh.  II.  A  A  J  Crew 


178  PALATES. 

A  Crow  Cant.  Take  wet  or  dry  fwcetmcats,  and  fiD 
a  di(h  as  full  as  for  a  pye ;  then  take  a  deep  difh  of  the 
fame  breadth  of  the  other  diat  your  Iweetmeats  are  m, 
turn  it  upfide  down,  and  cover  it  with  a  fheet  of  pafte 
of  milk  and  fugar  boiled,  wrought  with  flour,  and  rolled 
out  thin ;  then  cut  it  out  in  various  fhapes  and  forms^ 
bake  it  on  the  di(h,  and  take  great  care  not  to  have  any 
burnt  (pots  on  it ;  when  it  is  enough  take  it  out  of  the 
diih,  and  fet  it  upon  the  fweetmeats.. 


6  X  -  C  H  E  E  K.~Sec  Soups. 


OYSTERS. 

jTo  fricaffte  Oyster s.  Put  a  little  butter  in  a  ftewpan, 
with  a  (lice  of  ham,  a  faggot  of  par  (ley  and  fweet  herbs, 
and  one  onion  (luck  with  two  cloves ;  ioak  it  a  little  on 
a  flo\Y  fire,  adding  a  little  flour,  fbme  good  broth,  and 
a  piece  of  lemon-peel  j  then  put  fcalded  oyfters  to  it, 
and  fimmer  them  a  litde.  When  ready  to  ferve,  thick- 
en it  with  a  mixture  made  of  the  yolks  of  two  eggs,  a 
little  cream,  and  a  bit  of  good  butter;  take  out  the  ham, 
faggot,  onion,  and  lemon-peel,  and  add  the  (ijueeze  of  a 
lemon. 


PALATES 

'foYoafirOx  Palates.     Having  boiled  diem  tender,, 
blanch  them,  cut  them  into  flices  about  two  inches  long, 
lard  half  with  bacon ;  then  have  ready  two  or  three  pi- 
geons. 


PALATES.  179 

geons,  and  two  or  three  young  chickens,  draw  them, 
trufs  them,  and  fill  them  with  force-meat ;  let  half  of 
them  be  nicely  larded)  fpit  them  on  a  bird  Ipit  thus  :— 
A  birdj  a  palate,  a  fage  leaf,  and  a  piece  of  bacon ;  and 
fo  on.  Take  cocks'  combs  and  lambs'  ftones,  parboiled 
and  blanched,  lard  them  with  litde  bits  of  bacon ;  large 
oyflers  parboiled,  and  each  larded  with  one  piece  of  ba- 
con 5  put  thefe  on  a  Ikcwcr,  with  a  litde  piece  of  bacon 
and  fage  leaf  between  them  -,  tie  them  on  a  fpit  and 
roaft  them^  then  beat  up  the  yolks  of  three  eggs, 
fome  nutmeg,  a  little  fait,  and  crumbs  of  bread ;  bafte 
them  with  thefe  all  the  time  they  are  roafling,  and  have 
ready  two  fweetbreads,  each  cut  in  two,  ibme  artichoke 
bottoms  cut  in  four  and  fried,  and  then  rub  the  difh 
with  Ihallots  ;  lay  the  birds  in  the  middle,  piled  upon 
one  another,  and  lay  the  other  things  all  fcparate  by 
themfclvcs  round  about  in  the  difh.  Have  ready  for 
iauce  a  pint  of  good  gravy,  a  quarter  of  a  pint  of  red 
wine,  an  anchovy,  the  oyfter  liquor,  a  piece  of  buttei^ 
rolled  in  flour;  boil  all  thefe  together,  and  pour  into  the 
difli,  with  a  little  juice  of  lemon,  Garniih  your  dilb 
with  lemon. 

To  Jew  Ox  Palates.  Wafli  four  ox  palates  in  feve- 
ral  waters,  then  lay  them  in  warm  water  for  half  an 
hour,  then  wafh  them  out,  put  them  in  a  pot,  tie  them 
down  with  ftrong  paper,  and  fend  them  to  the  oven  with 
as  much  water  as  will  cover  them,  or  boil  them  till  ten- 
der ;  then  Ikin  them  and  cut  them  in  pieces  half  an  inch 
broad,  and  three  inches  long ;  put  them  in  a  tofling-pan 
with  a  pint  of  veal  gravy,  one  fpoonful  of  Madeira  wme, 
the  fame  of  catchup  and  browning,  one  onion  ftuck  with 
cloves,  and  a  flicc  of  lemon ;  (lew  them  half  an  hour> 

A  a  2  thea 


i8o  P    A    L    A    T    E    S* 

then  take  out  the  onion  and  lemon,  thicken  your  hntce 
and  put  them  in  a  difli ;  have  readjr  boiled  artichoke 
bottonfis,  cut  them  in  quarters,  and  lay  them  over  ywir 
palates,  wich  force-meat  balls  and  morels.  Garnifii  with 
lemon,  and  fervc  them  up. 

Jnother  zvay.  Braze  the  palates,  and  cut  them  in 
fmall  pieces ;  put  them  in  a  ftewpan  with  a  bit  of  but-? 
ter,  two  fpoonfiils  of  oil,  fait,  whole  pepper,  a  Btde  nut- 
meg, two  chopped  Ihallots,  a  clove  of  garlick,  a  littte 
tarragon,  mufhrooms,  and  parfley ;  fimmer  if  a  quarter 
of  an  hour,  then  add  a  little  cuUis,  a  gla6  of  white  wine, 
and  a  little  jelly  broth ;  boil  it  a  little,  flcim  it  well* 
When  ready  to  fcrve,  add  the  fijuceze  of  a  lemon. 

Another  way.  Boil  the  palates  till  tender ;  peel  and 
Cut  them  in  eight  or  ten  pieces ;  put  theni  in  a  ftewpan 
with  a  flice  of  ham,  a  faggot  of  parfley,  chibbol,  a  clove 
of  garlick,  t\s^  cloves,  a  litdc  butter ;  let  it  catch  a  little, 
then  add  a  litde  white  wine  and  cuUis )  boil  it  flowly  for 
fome  time,  flcim  it  well,  add  pepper  and  fait  according 
to  tafte,  and  fwect  herbs  finely  chopped.  When  ready 
to  ferve,  add  the  juice  of  a  lemon.  ^ 

Another  zvay.  Clean  four  or  five  palates,  put  them 
into  an  earthen  pan  with  water  to  cover  them,  tie  them 
down,  bake  them  or  boil  them  j  when  tender  peel  them, 
cut  them  in  pieces,  flour  them ;  put  them  into  fome 
good  gravy,  with  an  onion,  a  litde  pounded  doves,  a 
piece  of  lemon-peel,  and  fome  catchup ;  ftew  them  half 
an  hour,  take  out  the  peel  and  onion^  add  fonrie  morels, 
force-meat  balls,  and  lemon-juice,  and,  if  tobehad^  ar- 
tichoke bottoms  boiled' and  quartered.  Garniih  with 
lemon  fliced,  or  the  peel  cut  like  ftraws. 

Xo  broil  Ox  Palates.    Boil  in  water  as  many  palates 

as 


PALATES.  i8i 

as  you  pleaie ;  peel  them,  and  fbak  them  in  Saint  Me-« 
hoult,  which  is  thus : — Put  in  a  ftewpan  a  little  butter 
rolled  in  flour,  fait  and  pepper,  two  Ihallots,  a  clove  of 
garlicfc,  two  cloves,  parfley,  a  laurel  leaf^  thyme,  with  as 
much  milk  as  will  fimmer  your  palates  till  tender ;  then 
take  them  out,  and  bafte  diem  with  the  yolks  of  eggs 
^nd  bread  crumbs  5  broit  them  flowly,  and  fcrve  thenx 
with  fharp  fauce. 

To  ragoo  Ox  PaItATes.  Take  four  ox  palates,  and 
boil  them  very  tender,  clean  them  well,  cut  fomc  in^ 
iquaf  e  pieces,  and  fome  long.  Make  a  rich  cuUis 
thus  :-r-rPut  a  piece  of  butter  in  your  ftewpan,  and  melt 
it  i  put  a  large  fpoonful  of  flour  to  it,  ftir  it  well  till  it 
is  fmooth,  then  put  a  quart  of  good  gravy  to  it,  chbp 
three  ihallots,  and  put  in  ^  gill  of  Li/bon ;  cut  fome 
lean  ham  very  fine  and  put  in,  alio  half  a  lemon  ^  boil 
them  twenty  minutes,  then  ftrain  it  through  a  ficve,  put 
it  into  your  pan,  and  the  palates,  with  ibme  ibrce-meat 
ballsj  truffle^,  morels,-  and  pickled  or  fi*eih  muihrooms 
ftewed  in  gravy ;  ieafon  with  pepper  and  fait  to  your  li- 
king, and  tois  them  up  five  or  fix  minutes,  then  diih 
them  tip.     Gamiih  with  lemon  or  beet  root. 

Feal  Palates.  Provide  two  nice  palates,  and  boil 
them  half  an  hour;  take  off  the  ikins,  and  cut  th^ 
into  pieces,  as  you  do'  ox  palates ;  put  them  into  a  fteMf 
pan  with  a  glais  of  champagne,  a  litde  minced  greei^ 
onion,  parfley,  pepper  and  fait;  tois  it  often  till  the 
wine  is  gone,  pour  in  a  ladle  of  cuUis  mixed  with  gravy,^ 
():ew  them  ibftiy  in  it  till  very  tender,  daih  in  a  iinall 
glais  more  of  wine  ^  add  the  juice  of  a  lemon  or  orange^ 
and  fend  it  up. 

PANADA. 


[     181    1 

PANADA. 

Grate  the  crumb  of  a  penny  white  loaf  into  a  quart  of 
cold  water,  put  in  a  blade  of  mace,  fet  it  on  the  fire, 
and  when  it  is  boiled  fmooth,  take  it  off  and  put  in  a 
bit  of  lemon-peel,  the  juice  of  a  lemon,  a  glafs  of  fack, 
and  IWeeten  with  fugar  to  your  palate. 

Or  you  may  leave  out  the  wine  and  fugar,  and  pilt  in 

a  little  fait. 

Another  way.     Put  a  blade  of  mace,  a  large  piece  of 

crumb  of  bread,  and  a  quart  of  water  into  a  faucepam 
Let  it  boil  two  minutes,  then  take  out  the  bread,  and 
bruife  it  very  fine  in  a  bafon.  Mix  as  much  water  as 
you  think  it  will  require,  pour  away  the  reft,  and  IWeet- 
en it  to  your  palate.  Put  in  a  piece  of  butter  as  big  as 
a  walnut,  but  do  not  put  any  wine,  as  that  will  fpoil  it^ 
Orate  in  a  little  nutmeg. 


PANCAKES  tf«iFRITTERS. 

Cream  Pancakes.  Take  half  a  pint  of  cream,  mix 
with  it  the  yolks  of  two  eggs,  two  ounces  of  fugar,  a  litrie 
cinnamon,  mace,  and  nutmeg.  Rub  your  pan  with  lard, 
and  fry  them  as  thin  as  poffible.    Grate  fugar  over  them. 

Another  way.  Take  a  quart  of  good  milk,  beat  in  fix 
or  eight  eggs,  leaving  half  the  whites  out;  mix  it  well, 
till  your  batter  is  of  a  fine  thicknefs.  You  muft  obferve 
to  mix  your  flour  firft  with  a  litde  milk,  then  add  the 
"reft  by  degrees ;  put  in  two  fpoonfuls  of  beaten  ginger, 
a  glafs  of  brandy,  and  a  little  fait;  fl:ir  all v together, 
make  your  ftcwpan  very  clean,  put  in  a  piece  of  butter 

as 


PANCAKES  end  FRITTERS,     rtj 

as  large  as  a  walnut^  then  pour  in  a  ladleful  of  batter^ 
vrhich  will  make  a  pancake^  moving  the  pan  round  that 
the  batter  may  be  all  over  the  pan ;  Ihake  the  pan>  and 
ivhen  you  think  that  fide  is  enough^  tois  it^  if  you  can- 
jK>t  turn  it  cleverly ;  and  when  both  fides  are  done>  lay 
it  in  a  difh  before  the  fire,  and  fo  do  (he  reft.  You  mufl: 
cake  care  that  they  are  dry.  Whsn  you  fend,  them  to 
cable,  flrew  a  little  fugar  over  them. 

Jnotber  way.  Mix  the  yolks  of  two  eggs  with  half  a 
pint  of  cream,  and  two  ounces  of  fugar ;  rub  your  pan 
iwith  lard,  and  fiy  them  as  thin  as  poflible ;  grate  fugar 
over  them,  and  ferve  them  up  hot 

Common  Pancakes.  Take  a  pint  of  milk>  a  pound 
of  flour,  and  three  eggs ;  put  the  milk  by  degrees  into 
the  floiir;  add  a  little  fait,  and  grated  ginger;  fiy^em 
in  lard,  and  grate  fugar  over  them. 

Baiter  Pancakes.  Take  a  pound  of  flour  and  threo 
eggs,  beat  them  well  together  i  put  to  it  a  pint  of  milk, 
and  a  litde  fait  s  fry  them  in  lard  or  butter ;  grate  fugar 
over  them,  cut  them  in  quarters,  and  ferve  them  up. 

Fine  Pancakes.  To  a  pint  of  cream  add  the  yolks 
of  eight  eggs,  but  no  whites,  three  fpoonfuls  of  fack,  or 
orange-flower  water,  a  little  fugar,  and  a  grated  nutmeg, 
the  butter  and  cream  mufl  be  melted  over  the  fire ;  mix 
all  well  together  with  three  fpoonfuls  of  flour  j  butter 
the  frying-pan  for  the  firfl,  let  them  run  as  thin  as  you 
can  in  the  pan,  fiy  them  quick,  and  fend  them  up  hot. 

Rice  Pancakes.  Wafh  and  pick  clean  half  a  pound 
of  rice,  boil  it  till  it  is  tender,  and  all  the  water  boiled 
away  5  put  it  into  a  tin  cullender,  cover  it  clofe,  and  let 
it  fland  all  night  i  then  break  it  very  fmall ;  take  four- 
tcqn  eggs^  beat  and  ftrain  them,  and  put  them  to  the 

rice. 


i«4  fANCAlCES.     - 

rice,  with  t  quart  of  cremi^  a  nutmeg  gratod ;  beat  well 
together,  then  ftidce  in  ^  much  flour  as  will  hdd  them 
fogpther,  and  fo  in  as  much  butter  as  will  fiy  them. 

Pahcakis  caUed  ^  ^mr  ff  Paper.  Take  a  pint  of 
icream,  fix  eggs,  three  fpoonfuk  of  fine  flower,  tliree 
Ipocmfuls  of  fack,  one  of  orange  ftewer  water,  a  litstk  fti- 
gar,  hatf  a  nutmeg  grated,  and  half  a  pound  <3f  melted 
butter  almofl:  cold ;  mingle  all  well  together,  and  butter 
the  pan  for  the  firfl:  pancake.  Let  them  run  as  thm  as 
poflibJe ;  when  they  are  juft  coloured,  they  are  enough-  j 
take  them  carefully  out  of  the  pan,  and  ftrcw  fine  fugar 
between  each,  laying  them  even  on  the  dilh  j  and  fo  do 
with  aB  the  fine  pancakes. 

Fink-cahured'PAjf  CAKES.  Boil  a  large  beet-root  ten- 
der, beat  it  fine  in  a  marble  mortar,  adding  to  i3ic  jiricc 
the  yolks  of  four  eggs,  twoipoonfuls  of  flour,  and  three 
Ipoonfiils  of  cream  5  fweeten  it  to  your  tafte,  and  grate 
in  half  a  nutmeg,  and  add  aglafs  of  brandy  i  beat  them 
all  together  half  an  hour,  fry  them  in  butter,  and  garnilh 
them  with  green  fweetmeats,  prefer ved  apricots,  or  green 
fprigs  of  myrtle.  It  is  a  pretty  corner  difh  for  either 
dinner  or  fupper. 

Clary  Pancakes.  Take  three  eggs,  three  fpoonfuls 
of  fine  flour,  and  a  little  fait,  beat  them  well,  and  mix 
them  well  with  a  pint  of  milk;  put  lard  into  your  panj 
when  it  is  hot,  pour  in  your  batter  as  thin  as  pofllble^ 
then  lay  in  fome  clary  leaves,  wafhed  and  dried,  and 
pour  a  little  more  batter  thin  over  them^  fry  them  a  fine 
brown,  and  ferve  them  up. 

Common  Fritters.      Get  fome  large  baking  apples, 

pare  them,  and  t^ke  out  the  core  j  cut  them  in  round 

flices,  and  dip  them  in  batter  made  as  follows :  Take 

2  half 


J 


PANCAKES.  rSs 

half  a  pint  of  ale,  and  two  eggs,  and  beat  them  in  as 
much  flour  as  will  make  it  rather  thicker  than  a  com- 
mon pudding,  with  nutmeg  and  fugar  to  your  taftc. 
Let  it  ftand  three  or  four  minutes  to  rife.  Having  dip- 
ped your  apple  into  this  batter,  fi  y  them  crifp,  and  fervc 
them  up  with  fugar  grated  over  them,  and  wine  fauce  in 
a  boat. 

Strawberry  Fritters.  Make  a  batter  with  flour;  a 
fpoonflil  of  oil,  white  wine,  a  little  rafpcd  lemon-peel, 
and  the  whites  of  two  or  three  eggs;  make  it  pretty  fofc, 
juft  fit  to  drop  with  a  fpoon.  Mix  fome  large  flrawbcr- 
ries  with  it,  and  drop  them  with  a  fpoon,  the  bignefs  of 
a  nutmeg,  into  the  hot  fritter.  When  of  a  good  colour, 
take  them  out,  and  drain  them  on  a  fieve  5  when  ready 
to  ferve,  ftrew  them  over  with  fugar. 

Plain  Fritters.  Grate  the  crumb  of  a  penny  loafi 
and  put  it  into  a  pint  of  milk  j  mix  it  very  fmooth; 
ivhen  cold,  add  the  yolks  of  five  eggs,  three  ounces  of 
fifted  fugar,  and  fome  grated  nutmeg;  fry  them  in  hog's 
lard;  pour  melted  butter,  wine,  and  fugar,  into  the 
difti.     Currants  may  be  added,  as  an  improvement. 

Tanfey  Fritters.  Pour  a  pint  of  boiling  milk  on 
the  crumb  of  a  penny  loaf,  let  it  fl:and  an  hour,  and 
then  put  as  much  juice  of  tanfey  to  it  as  will  give  it  a 
flavour  (too  much  will  make  it  bitter)  j  then,  with  the 
juice  of  fpinach,  make  it  a  pretty  green.  Put  to  it  a 
Ipoonful  of  ratafia- water,  or  brandy,  fweeten'it  to  your 
tafte,  grate  the  rind  of  half  a  lemon,  beat  the  yolks  of 
four  eggs,  mix  them  all  together;  put  them  in  a  toflTzng- 
pan,  with  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  butter ;  fl:ir  it  over 
a  flow  fire,  till  it  is  quite  thick ;  take  it  ofi^,  and  let  it 
{land  two  or  three  hours  3  then  drop  them  into  a  pan  o£ 

Vol.  II.  B  b  boiling 


186  PANCAKES* 

boiling  lard,  a  fpoonful  is  enough  for  a  fritter  i  feffc 
them  up  with  fliccs  of  orange  round  thcm>  grate  fugar 
ever  them,  and  ferve  wine  fauce  in  a  boat. 

Currant  Fritters.  Take  half  a  pint  of  ale  diat  is 
not  bitter,  ftir  a  fufEcient  quantity  of  flour  in  it  to  maki; 
it  pretty  thick ;  add  a  few  currants ;  beat  this  up  quick> 
have  the  lard^  boiling,  throw  in  a  large  Ipoonful  at  a 
time. 

•  R&yal  Fritters:  Put  a  quart  of  new  milk  into  a 
faucepan,  and  as  the  milk  boils  up,  pour  in  a  glals  of 
fack.  After  boiling,  let  it  ftand  five  or  fix  minutes ; 
then  (kim  off  all  the  curd  and  put  it  into  a  bafon ; 
beat  it  up  well  with  fix  eggs,  fcafon  it  with  nutmeg ; 
then  beat  it  with  a  whifk ;  add  flour  to  make  it  as  thick 
as  batter  ufually  is,  put  in  fome  fine  fugar,  and  67 
them  thick. 

Hajly  Fritters.  Heat  Ibme  butter  in  a  ftewpan. 
Stir  a  litde  flour  by  degrees  into  half  a  pint  of  ale;  put 
in  a  few  currants,  or  chopped  apples;  beat  them  up 
quick,  and  drop  a  large  fpoonfiil  at  a  time  all  over  the 
pan.  Take  care  to  prevent  their  (licking^  together,  tum 
them  with  an  egg-flice;  and,  when  they  are  of  a  finq 
brown,  lay  them  on  a  dilh,  and  throw  fome  fugar  over 
them.  You  may  cut  an  orange  into  quarters  for  gar- 
nifli. 

Heater  Fritters.  For  thefc  fritters,  the  batter  muft 
be  very  thick.  Take  five  or  fix  fpoonfuls  of  flour,  a 
little  fait,  a  quart  of  water,  the  yolks  and  whites  of  eight 
eggs  well  beat,  with  a  little  brandy ;  ftrain  them  through 
a  hair  fieve,  and  mix  them  with  the  other  ingredients. 
The  longer  they  are  made  bdbrc  they  arc  friedj  the  bet- 
ter, V 


P  A  R  TJ^  I  D   G  E  S.^  187 

ten  Juft  before  they  are  fried,  meft  half  a  pound  of 
butter,  and  beat  it  well  in.  The  beft  thing  to  fry  them 
in  is  lard. 

jR'/i^  Fritters.  Take  Ibmc  very  fine  flour,  and  dry 
it  well  before  the  fire«  Mix  it  with  a  quart  of  milkj 
but  be  careful  not  to  make  it  too  thick;  put  to  it  fix  or 
eight  eggs,  a  little  fait,  nutmeg,  mace,  and  a  quarter 
of  a  pint  of  fack,  or  ale,  or  a  glafs  of  brandy.  Be^t 
them  well  together,  then  make  them  pretty  thick  with 
pippins,  and  fry  them  dry. 


PARSLEY.— See  Sauces. 


PARSNIPS, 

.  To  drefs  Parsnips.  Parfnips  ihould  be  boiled  in  a 
great  deal  of  water,  and  when  they  are  foft,  which  may 
be  known  by  running  a  fork  into  them,  they  are  enoi^h. 
They  either  may  be  ferved  whole  with  melted  butter, 
or  beat  fmooth  in  a  bowl,  heated  with  a  little  cream^ 
|>utter,  and  flour,  and  a  little  fait. 


MP«^ 


PARTRIDGES, 

Taroaft  Partridges.  Dufl:  them  with  flour,  and 
bafte  them  often  with  frefli  butter,  keeping  them  at  a 
good  diftance  from  the  fire ;  fprinkle  a  litde  fait  on,  and 
froth  them  up  nicely.  Make  your  gravy  of  a  fcrag  of 
mutton,  a  tea  fpoonful  of  lemon  pickle,  a  large  fpoonful 
of  catchip,  ^d  the  fame  of  browning ;  ftrain  it,  and  put 

B  b  2  a  lit- 


i88  PAR   T   Rvl   DOES. 

a  little  of  it  into  the  difti.  Serve  them  up  with  bread 
fauce  in  a  boat,  made  thus :  Take  a  handful  or  two  of 
bread  crumbs,  put  them  to  a  pint  of  milk  or  qnore,  a 
fmall  whole  onion,  a  little  whole  pepper,  fait,  and  a  bit 
of  butter ;  boil  all  well  together,  then  take  the  onion 
out,  and  beat  it  well  with  a  fpoon ;  to  the  whole  add  a* 
bout  a  gill  of  Poivrade  fauce ;  boil  them  a  minute,  and 
put  it  in  a  boat. 

To  boil  a  Partridge.  Boil  your  partridges  quick  in 
a  good  deal  of  water,  and  fifteen  minutes  will  be  fuffici- 
cnt.  For  fauce — ^take  a  quarter  of  a  pint  of  cream,  and 
a  piece  of  frefh  Gutter  as  large  as  a  walnut ;  ftir  it  one 
way  till  it  is  melted,  and  pour  it  into  the  difti. 

Another  way.  Trufs  two  or  three  partridges  as  for 
boiling ;  lard  them  with  ham,  bacon,  and  anchovies ; 
braze  them  as  ufual  j  when  done,  fkim  and  fift  the  fauce, 
and  add  a  little  cuUis.  When  ready  to  ferve,  add  the 
fqueezc  of  a  lemon. 

For  fauce — take  a  few  mulhrooms,  frefh  peeled,  and 
wafli  them  clean  j  put  them  in  a  faucepan  widi  a  litde 
fait,  put  them  over  a  quick  fire,  let  them  boil  up,  then 
put  in  a  quarter  of  a  pint  of  cream  and  a  little  nutmeg ; 
fliake  them  together  with  a  piece  of  butter  rolled  in  flour, 
give  it  two  or  three  fhakes  over  the  fire ;  three  or  four 
minutes  will  do  \  then  pour  it  over  the  birds. 

Or,  boil  half  a  pound  of  rice  very  tender  in  beef  gra- 
vy ;  feafon  with  pepper  and  fait,  and  pour  over  your 
birds.  Thele  fauces  do  alfo  for  boiled  fowls.  A  quart 
of  gravy  will  be  enough  \  and  let  it  boil  till  it  is  quite 
thick. 

Or,  bniife  the  livers  very  fine,  with  fome  chopped 
pariley ,  melt  a  little  nice  frefli  butter,  adding  the  livers 

and 


PARTRIDGES.  189 

and  padley,  fqueeze  in  a  kmon^  give  it  a  boilj  and  poty 
over  the  birds. 

Partridoks  in  Panes.  Take  two  roafted  partridges, 
and  the  flefh  of  a  large  fowl,  a  little  parboiled  bacon,  a 
litde  marrow  or  fwcct  fuet  chopped  fine,  a  few  morels 
or  mufhrooms  chopped  fine,  truffles  and  artichoke  bot- 
toms. Seafon  with  beaten  mace,  pepper,  a  little  nut- 
meg, fait,  fweet  herbs  chopped  fine,  and  the  crumb  of  a 
two  penny  loaf,  foaked  in  hot  gravy.  Mix  all  well  to- 
gether, with  the  yolks  of  two  eggs ;  make  your  panes  on 
paper,  of  a  round  figure,  and  the  thicknefs  of  an  egg, 
at  a  proper  diftance  one  from  another.  *  Dip  the  point 
of  a  knife  in  the  yolk  of  an  egg,  in  order  to  ihape  them, 
bread  them  neatly,  and  bake  them  a  quarter  of  an  hour 
in  a  quick  oven.  Obferve  that  the  truffles  and  moreb 
are  boiled  tender  in  the  gravy  you  foak  the  bread  in* 
Serve  them  up  for  a  fide  difh. 

When  you  have  cold  fowls  in  the  houfe,  this  makes  a 
pretty  addition  in  an  entertainment.  Or  you  may  omit 
the  fowl. 

Partridges  en  afpic.  Chop  fliallots,  parfley,  tarra^ 
gon,  chives,  garden-crefies,  a  litde  bafil,  one  clove  of 
garlic,  and  a  few  anchovies.  Mix  thefe  with  muftard, 
oil,  tarragon,  vinegar,  pepper  and  fait.  If  you  ferve  the 
partridges  whole,  ferve  the  iauce  cold  in  a  fauce  boat. 
If  for  hot,  cut  the  partridges  as  for  a  hafh  s  warm  them 
in  a  littje  broth,  then  put  them  to  the  fauce ;  warm  them 
together  without  boiling.  You  may  alfo  mix  it  in  the 
iame  manner  cold.  If  cold,  it  will  be  better  to  be  mix- 
•cd  an  hour  or  more  before  ufing. 

Partridges  in  Ragoo,  with  Oranges.    Roaft  them 

as  above,  only  ufe  no  flour.    Make  a  fauce  of  the  livers 

»  pounded^ 


I90         PARTRIDGES, 

pounded^  and  add  two  or  three  of  chickens  s  put  it  intck 
a  ftewpan  with  a  green  onion  or  two,  a  mufhroom,  pep- 
|)er  and  fait,  and  parfley.  Boil  all  in  cuUis  a  few 
minutes  s  cut  the  partridges  as  fi>r  a  fricaflee,  and  put  to 
your  fauce.  Let  it  boil  but  juft  long  enough  to  make 
the  meat  hot  through.  Strip  in  a  moriel  or  two  of  le- 
nion*peel,  a  bit  of  minced  Iballot  and  parfley,  fqueeze 
in  a  good  deal  of  juice^  and  dilh  it  up,  Garnifh  widi 
oranges  in  quarters. 

Partridges  a-la^hraize.  Take  two  brace  of  par- 
tridges, truis  the  legs  into  the  bodies,  lard  them,  and 
proceed  in  every  refpcjft  as  direfted  for  chickens  a-la-^ 
haize.    See  that  article.  Vol.  i^  page.  216. 

To  fiew  Partridges.  Trufs  them  as  for  roafting, 
ftuffthe  craws  with  bread  crumbs,  a  bit  of  butter,  lemon 
peel  grated,  chopped  Ihallot,  parfley,  pepper,  lalt,  nut- 
meg, yolk  of  egg.  Rub  the  infide  with  pepper  and  fait, 
and  you  may  lard  them  down  each  fide  of  the  breafl:. 
Half  roafl:  them.  Stew  them  with  cuUis  or  rich  gravy, 
and  a  little  Madeira,  an  onion,  a  piece  of  lemon-peel^ 
favoury  fpice,  if  neceflary,  for  about  half  an  hour.  Take 
CMit  the  onion  and  lemcm-peel,  thicken  it  with  a  little 
^our ;  add  kyan,  catchup,  &c.  if  neceflary.   Boil  it  up. 

*    ■ 

(Jarnifti  with  hard  yolks  of  eggs ;  add  artichoke  bot-v 
corns  boiled  and  quartered. 

Partridgesi  roUed.  Lard  young  partridges  with 
ham  or  bacon ;  ftrew  over  them  fome  pepper  and  fair, 
with  fome  beaten  mace,  fome  ihred  lemon-peel,  and 
fweet  herbs  cut  fmall  $  then  take  fome  thin  beef  fteaks 
(there  muft  be  no  holes  in  them) ,-  flrew  over  thcfe  fom^ 
of  the  feafoning,  and  then  iqueeze  on  them  fome  lemon 
,  juices  lay  a  partridge  upon  ea^ch  fl:eak>  a/id  coU  it  up^ 
.1  X^ 


•PARTRIDGES.  191 

tie  it  round  to  keep  it  together,  and  pepper  the  outfidc. 
Set  on  a  ftewpan  with  Ibme  dices  of  bacon,  and  an  onion 
Cut  into  pieces ;  lay  the  partridges  carefolly  in,  put  to 
them  fome  rich  gravy,  and  let  them  (lew  gently  till 
they  are  done;  then  talce  the  partridges  out  of  the 
beef,  lay  them  in  a  difh,  and  pour  over  them  fomc 
rich  effence  of  ham. 

Partridges  broiled  with  fweet  Herbs.  Trufs  them 
as  for  boiling ;  fplit  them  down  the  back,  and  mari- 
nade them  about  an  hour  in  a  little  oil,  with  pepper 
and  fait,  and  all  forts  of  fweet  herbs  chopped  -,  then 
roll  them  in  paper  with  all  the  feafoning  j  broil  flowly. 
When  done^  take  off  the  paper,  mix  the  herbs  with  a 
little  good  cull  is,  add  the  fqueeze  of  a  lemon^  and 
fcrve  with  the  partridges 

Partridges  with  Confommee  Sauce.  Trufs  your  par- 
tridges as  for  boiling ;  put  them  in  a  ftewpan,  with 
fliccs  of  veal  and  bacon  above  and  below,  a  flice  of 
ham,  a  faggot,  three  cloves,  diced  onions  and  carrots  j 
braze  on  a  very  dow  fire.  When  done,  fift  and  (kim 
the  fauce,  and  ferve  upon  the  partridges. 

Partridges  a-la-paifanne.  Pick,  draw,  and  truft 
your  partridges,  and  put  them  upon  an  iron  fkewer  5 
tie  them  to  the  fpit,  lay  them  down  to  roaft ;  put  a 
piece  of  fat  bacon  upon  a  toafling-fork,  and  hold  it 
over  the  partridges,  that  as  it  melts  it  may  drop  upon 
them  as  they  roaft.  When  they  are  well  baftcd  with 
this,  duft  over  them  fome  crumbs  of  bread  and  fome 
falti  cut  fome  fh  allots  very  fine,  with  a  Hcde  gravy, 
fait,  and  pepper,  and  the  juice  of  half  a  lemon.  Mix 
all  ihefc  together  over  the  fire,  and  thicken  them  up. 

Pour 


t^i  PASTES* 

Pour  them  into  a  difh,  and  lay  the  partridges  Upon 
them. 

Partridges  hajhed  with  Rocombole  Sauce.  Truls 
thcfc  as  to  roaft  them  ;  make  a  force-meat  with  the  li- 
vers, &c.  and  roaft  them  gendy  with  a  lard  of  bacon 
and  paper ;  lodge  a  bit  or  two  of  rocombole  upon 
the  breafts,  and  when  done,  cut  all  the  flelh  from 
the  breafts  into  very  thin  dices;  keep  your  carcafes 
hot,  and  provide  a  faucc  for  the  hafh,  with  a  ladle 
of  cuUis,  minced  rocombole,  pepper,  fait,  and  nut- 
meg s  boil  this  a  few  niinutes,  and  put  in  your  hafh. 
When  your  dinner  is  ready,  put  it  to  the  fauce.  Make 
it  only  boiling  hot,  throw  in  a  little  parfley,  fqueeze  in 
ibme  lemon  or  orange,  and  dilh  up  upon  the  bones  or 
carcafes.  Put  enough  of  your  cuUis,  that  fome  may 
flow  over  into  the  di(h. 

Woodcocks  make  a  good  difh  done  in  this  fafliion. 
—See  alfo  Woodcocks. 


PASTES. 

Paste  for  large  Pies.  Put  the  yblks  of  dirce  eggs 
to  a  peck  of  flour,  pour  in  fbmc  boiling  water,  then 
put  in  half  a  pound  of  fuet,  and  a  pound  and  a  half  of 
butter.  Skim  off  the  butter  and  fuet,  and  as  much  of 
the  liquor  as  will  make  it  a  light  good  cruft.  Work  it 
up  well,  and  roll  it  out. 

ji  Paste  for  Cujiards.  Pour  half  a  pound  of  boiling 
water  on  two  pounds  of  flour,  adding  as  much  water 
as  will  make  it  into  a  good  pafte.  Work  it  well,  and 
when  it  has  cooled  a  litde,  raife  your  cuftards,  put  a 

paper 


PASTES.  193 

paper  tcuhd  the  infide  of  them,  and  when  they  are 
half  baked>  fill  them.  1 

Another  way.  To  half  a  pound  of  flour,  put  fix 
ounces  of  butter,  the  yolks  of  two  eggs,  and  three 
fpoonfuls  of  cream.  Mix  them  together,  let  them  fland 
for  a  quarter  of  an  hour,  then  work  it  up  and  down, 
and  roll  it  very  thin. 

Short  Crufi.  Rub  fome  flour  and  butter  together, 
full  fix  ounces  of  butter  to  eight  of  flour ;  mix  it  up 
with  as  little  water  &s  poflible,  fo  as  to  have  it  a  ftiififh 
pafte ;  beat  it  well,  and  roll  it  thin.  Th^  is  the  beft 
cruft  for  all  tarts  that  are  to  be  eaten  cold,  and  for  pre- 
lerved  fruit.  Ufe  a  moderate  oven.  An  ounce  and  a 
half  of  fifted  fugar  may  be  added. 

Paste  fot  Tarts.  Take  one  pound  of  flour,  three 
quarters  of  a  pound  of  butter ;  mix  up  together,  and 
beat  well  with  a  rolling-pin. 

Crijp  Paste  for  Tarts.  To  one  pound  of  fine  flour, 
put  one  ounce  of  loaf  fugar  beat  and  fifted.  Make  it 
into  a  ftiflF  pafte,  with  a  gill  of  boiling  creatn,  and  three 
ounces  of  butter  to  it ;  work  it  well,  and  roll  it  very 
thin.  When  you  have  made  your  tarts,  beat  the  white 
of  an  egg  a  little,  rub  it  over  diem  with  a  feather,  fift 
a  little  double-refined  fugar  over  them,  and  bake  them 
in  a  moderate  oven. 

Another  way.  Having  beat  the  while  of  an  egg  to  a 
flrong  froth,  put  in  by  degrees  four  ounces  of  double- 
refined  fugar,  .with  about  as  much  gum  as  will  lie  upon 
a  fixpence,  beat  and  fifted  fine.  Beat  them  half  an 
hour,  and  then  lay  it  thin  on  your  tarts.  # 

Puff  Paste.  Mix  the  flour  with  cold  water,  and 
weigh  the  pafte  ^  to  every  pound  of  pafte  put  half  a^ 

Vol.  II.  Cc  poynd 


t94  IP    A    S    T    E    S. 

pound  of  butter  i  roll  out  the  pafte  and  divide  the  trat^ 
ter  into  three  parts,  laying  one  part  on  each  iheet^ 
throwing  fiour  on  every  time,  and  roll  it  diree  times  af' 
ter  all  die  butter  is  laid  on  i  if  it  is  frofty^  mix  the  flour 
tridi  the  water  miUc«wann„ 

Be  Aire  to  roll  the  pafle  until  all  the  butter  is  welt 
mixed,  or  it  will  run  out  in  the  baking.  This  pafte  is 
for  puddings,  pafties,  difh>pies,.  florentinesj  or  minced 
pies.  ' 

Jnotber  Witf,  Take  a  quarter  of  a  peck  of  flour, 
rub  in  a  pound  of  butter  very  fine,  make  it  up  in  a  light 
pafte  with  cold  water,  juft  ftifi^  enough  to  work  it  up ; 
then  rdl  it  out  about  as  thick  as  a  crown  piece ;  put  a 
layer  of  butter  all  over ;  fprinkle  on  a  little  flour,  dou- 
ble it  up,  and  roll  it  out  again;  double  it  and  roll  it  three 
times,  then  it  is  fit  for  all  pies  and  tarts  that  require  a 
puff  pafte. 

Pastb  for  Handing  Orufts.  To  feven  pounds  of  flour 
cake  three  pounds  of  butter  and  three  pints  of  water, 
boil  the  butter  and  water  till  it  is  melted,  dien  fl&im  ofF 
die  butter  and  mix  it  with  flour,'  likewife  the  remaining 
flour  with  water.  Work  the  pafte  all  together  with  your 
hands }  when  it  is  well  mix^,  cut  the  pafte  into  little 
pieces  and  lay  on  the  table  to  cool ;  then  work  them  all 
together,  and  raifc  it  into  a  pie  or  pies. 

jtnoiber  awy.  Take  fome  beef  or  Iheep  fuet,  which 
tut  fmall  and  put  into  a  brals  pan,  fet  it  on  a  clear  fire 
at  a  good  diftance;  if  it  ftands  over  hot,  it  is  in  danger 
of  burning  the  fat ;  and  when  it  is  meltied,  take  ^  if 
off  the  fire,  and  drain  all  the  fat  into  a  fieve,  letting  it 
run  into  a  clean  broad  earthen  pot  i  when  it  is  cold,  to 
a  pound  of  this  ht  take  a  pine  of  mXk,  a  Uttle  kit,  and 


PEASE,  15J 

iiotl  and  mix  it  with  the  flour  as  above :  this  makes  a 
much  better  cruft  in  winter^  when  butter  is  ftrong,  than 
butter  does. 

Sugar  Pastes.  Sift  the  fugar  through  a  lawn  fievei 
then  (lit  ftarch  as  fine^  allowing  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of 
ftarch  to  a  pound  of  lugar^  make  it  into  a  ftifl^  pafte> 
putting  thereto  gumdragon  fteeped  in  orange  flower,  wa«^ 
ter;  pound  it  in  a  mortar^  and  make  into  knots  or  (hells 
in  a  mould  or  mo&,  widi  rubbing  it  through  an  hair  (ievet 

This  pafte  may  be  coloured  of  what  colour  you 
pleafe^  by  tinging  it  with  carmine  for  red^  gamboge  for 
yellow,  fteeped  in  water  and  gummed;  with  yeUow 
gum  and  ftone  blue>  fteeped  in  water  for  green  i  with 
fmait  for  blue^  and  with  chocolate  for  brown. 


PAST  Y,— See  Venisok. 


PEASE. 


Peafe  (hould  xipt  be  (helled  till  juft  before  you  want 
them.  Put  diem  into  boiling  water  with  a  licde  &1^ 
and  a  lump  of  loaf  fugar,  and  when  they  begin  to  dent 
in  the  middle,  they  are  enough.  Strain  them  into  a 
jieve,  put  a  good  lump  of  I^Mutter  in  your  difli>  and  ftir 
then  till  the  butter  is  melted.  Boil  a  fprig  of  mint  by 
itfelf,  chop  it  fine,  and  lay  it  roupd:  the  ed^e  of  your 
difli  in  lumps. 

71?  preferve  green  Peasi.  In  an  earthen  p^t  put  one 
half  water,  and  the  other  half  vinegar,  into  this  put 
green  peafe  5  cover  the  pot,  and  let  it  be  well  flopped,, 

C  c  2  and 


196  PEASE. 

and  when  you  take  them  out  to  cat,  put  them  in  frefh 
water. 

Thcfe  may  be  gathered  when  they  are  thoroughly 
ripe,  that  is,  when  the  cod  begins  to  turn  black :  and 
when  you  have  taken  out  the  peafe,  pull  off  the  ikin 
that  covers  them. 

To  ragoo  Pease.  Gather  them  while  they  are  green, 
(hell  them  and  put  them  into  a  pan  with  butter  or  lard ; 
to  which  add  a  little  water  to  make  them  boil,  feafoning 
all  with  fait)  a  little  parfley  and  chibbol  cut  in  pieces, 
and  when  they  are  done  enough  thicken  the  fauce  with 
a  little  cream,  and  ferve  it  up. 

Tojlew  Pease.  Put  them  into'  a  pot  widi  a  little 
water,  butter,  fait,  artd  pepper  j  or  you  may  fry  them 
in  a  pan  with  butter,  or  odicrwifc  with  fait  and  pepper 
and  a  litdc  flour,  moiftened  with  fome  milk  or  fweet 
cream,  which  is  the  better,  or  elfe  with  fome  eggs  with 
a  litde  miik  put  to  them. 

Stewed  Pease  and  Lettuce.  Take  a  quart  of  green 
peafe,  and  two  large  cabbage-lettuces,  cut  fmall  acrofs, 
and  walhed  very  clean  $  put  them  in  a  ftewpan  with  a 
quart  of  gravy,  and  ftew  them  till  tender  j  put  in  fome 
butter  rolled  in  flour,  feafon  with  pepper  and  fait. 
When  of  a  proper  thicknefs,  difli  them  up. 

Some  like  them  thickened  with  the  yolks  of  four 
cggsj  others  prefer  an  onion  chopped  very  fine,  and 
ftcwed  with  them,  with  two  or  three  rafliers  of  lean 
ham. 


PERCH. 


[    197    3 


P    E    R    C    H. 

To  fry  TsKCH.  Scale  and  gut  your  perCh,  and  walh 
them  clean  -,  fcore  them  at  fome  diftance  on  the  fides, 
but  not  very  deep ;  dry  them  well,  and  flour  them  all 
over^  fry  them  in  oiled  butter.  When  they  are  of  a 
fine  brown,  lay  fome  criiped  parflcy  round  the  fifh. 
For  fauce,  take  plain  butter.  Some  make  the  follow- 
ing fauce:  Two  ounces  of  browned  butter;  put  to  it 
fome  flour,  a  few  chives  chopped  fmall,  fome  parfley, 
a  few  frefh  muflirooms  qut  fniall,  and  a  litde  boiling 
water.  Lay  the  perch  in  this  liquor  after  they  arc 
fried,  and  let  them  ftew  gently  for  four  or  five  minutes  j 
then  lay  them. in  a  warm  dilh ;  add  two  large  ipoonfub 
of  capers  cut  fmall,  thicken  it  up  with  butter  and  flour, 
and  pour  it  over'them. 

To  drefs  Perqh  in  Water  Souchy.  JHaving  fcaled, 
gutted,  and  wafiied  theifi,  put  fome  fait  in  your  water ; 
when  it  boils^  put  in  your  filh,  with  an  onion  cut  in 
flices,  and  feparated  into  round  rings,  and  a  handftil  of 
parfley;  put  as  much  milk  as  will  turn  the  water  white. 
The  perch  being  enough,  put  them  in  a  foup  difh,  an<i 
pour  a  litde  of  the  water  over  them,  with,  the  parfley 
and  the  onions :  ferve  it  up  with  butter  and  parfley  in  a 
boat;  onions  may  be  omitted,  if  you  think  proper. 
Trout  may  be  boiled  the  fame  way. 

To  prepare  Perch  with  Mujhroomu  Pick  and  cleanfe 
your  muflirooms ;  cut  them  into  fmall  pieces,  then  ftew 
them  in  a  faucepan  over  a  gende  fire  without  any  li* 
quor,  but  what  comes  from  them,  till  they  are  tender ; 
then  pour  oflT  the  liquor  and  put  a  little  cream  to  them; 

in 


198  P  H  E  A  S  A  N  T  $• 

in  the  mean  time  prepare  a  brace  of  large  perch,  by 
fcalding,  walhing  and  cutting  them  in  thick  flices  and 
parboiling  them ;  then  put  the  fifh  to  the  mufhrooms 
and  alfo  the  yolks  of  three  eggs  beateni  p^ey  boifed 
^d  chopped  fmali,  fak,  grated  nutmeg,  and  lemon 
juice  1  keep  continually  ftkring  ail  thcfe  together  over  a 
gentle  fire ;  but  tak^  care  ndt  to  break  die  fifh  i  and 
vhen  enough,  garoUh  with  ffices  of  lemon  and  pickled 
barberries^ 


PHEASANTS. 

To  roafi  Pheasants,  Make  a  little  force-meat  with 
the  Uvers,  breadcrumbs,  fcraped  lard  or  butter,  chop- 
ped parfley,  fhaliot$,  mufhrooim,  pepper,  and  ialti 
ihiff  the  partridges  with  it,  and  wrap  them  in  flices  of 
bacon  and  pager,  or  buttered  paper  only,  and  roaft 
them. 

Jnotber  way.  Pick  and  draw  your  pheafants,  and 
fing9  them ;  lard  one  with  bacon^  but  not  the  other  2 
i^it  them,  roaft  diem  fine,  and  paper  them  all  over  the 
bread.  When  they  are  juft  done,  flour  and  bafle  them 
with  a  little  nice  butter,  and  let  them  have  a  fine  white 
froth ;  then  take  them  up,  and  pour  your  gravy  in  the 
difli,  and  bread  fauce  in  boats  or  bafons. 

Or  you  may  put  water  cre&s  with  gravy  in  the 
difli,  and  lay  the  crefles  under  the  pheafants. 

Or  you  may  make  cdery  fauce,  ftewcd  tender,  ftrain- 
cd  and  mixed  with  cream,  and  poured  into  the  difli.   . 

To  koil  Pheasants.  Boil  them  in  a  great  deal  of 
waters  if  large,  three  quarten  of  an  hour  will  boil 

thems 


PHEASANTS.  t^ 

xhem  1  if  fmail^  half  an  hour.  For  fauce^-^whifie  ce^ 
lery  ftewed  and  thickened  with  cream^  and  a  bit  of  but** 
ter  rolled  in  flour.  Lay  the  pheafants  in  the  difli^  and 
pour  the  fauce  over  diein. 

Obferve  fo  to  ftew  your  celery,  that  die  liquor  may 
not  be  all  wafted  before  you  put  in  your  creilm^  Sea« 
ion  with  fait  to  your  palate.    Gamifli  with  lemon. 

Pheasants  d-la-braze.  Having  put  a  layer  of  beef 
all  over  your  pan,  a  layer  of  veal,  a  litde  piece  of  ba- 
con, a  piece  of  carrot,  ah  onion  ftuck  with  cloves,  a 
blade  or  two  of  mace,  a  fpopnful  of  pepper,  black  and 
white,  and  a  bundle  of  fweet  herbs,  lay  in  the  phcafant ; 
then  a  layer  of  beef  and  a  layer  of  veal  to  cover  it.  Set 
it  on  the  fire  for  five  or  fix  minutes,  and  pour  in  two 
quarts  of  boiling  gravy.  Cover  it  clofe,  and  let  it  ftew 
very  fofdy  an  hour  and  a  halfj  then  take  up  your  phea- 
lant  and  keep  it  hot :  let  the  gravy  boil  till  it  is  reduced 
to  about  a  pint,  then  ftrain  it  ofi^  and  put  it  in  again  $ 
pur  in  a  veal  fweet-bread,  firft  being  ftewed  with  the 
pheafant;  fome  truffles  and  morels,  fomc  livers  of  fowls, 
artichoke  bottoms,  and  alparagus  tops,  if  you  have 
them :  let  thefe  fimmer  in  the  gravy  about  fivejor  fix 
minutes,  add  two  fpoonfiils  of  catchup,  two  of  red 
wine,  and  a  little  piece  of  butter  rolled  in  flour,  with  a 
Ipoonful  of  browning;  Ihake  all  together,  put  in  your 
pheafant,  let  them  ftew  all  together,  with  a  few  muih- 
rooms,  about  five  or  fix  minutes  more ;  then  take  up 
your  pheafant,  and  pour  your  ragoo  all  over,  ^rfi  a 
few  force-meat  balls.  Garnilh  with  lemon.  You  may 
lard  it  if  you  think  proper. 

Phsasants  a-la-Mongelas.  Provide  a  large  pheafant, 
cut  off  the  pinions  as  to  roaft,  and  make  a  good  force- 
meat i 


900  PHEASANTS. 

meat ;  put  it  into  your  pheafant  and  (pit  ic^  widi  (octit 
lards  of  bacon  and  paper ;  take  care  you  roaft  it  nicely, 
and  prepare  your  fauce  as  follows : — Take  ibme  fat  li-> 
vers  of  turkies  or  fowls,  blanch  them  till  thoroughly 
done,  and  pound  them  to  a  pafte :  add  fome  gravy  ^d 
cullis,  mix  it  well  together,  and  pais  it  through  a  fieve  § 
cut  ofi'  the  fleih  of  the  pheafant,  Qice  it  very  thin  and 
put  to  it,  and  preferve  the  carcaie  hot;  add  to  your 
iauce,  which  fhbuld  be  about  the  thickne&  of  your  cul- 
lis,  a  little  pepper,  fait,  ibme  minced  parfley,  and  the 
juice  of  two  or  three  oranges ;  and,  if  you  approve  of 
it,  you  may  ftrip  a  few  morfels  of  the  orange  peel  in, 
and  ierve  it  up  with  the  hafh  poured  over  the  breaft, 
and  garniih  with  fome  oranges  in  quarters. 

To  Jew  a  Pheasant.  Stew  your  pheafant  in  veal 
gravy;  take  artichoke  bottoms  parboiled,  fomechefhuts 
roailed  and  blanched.  When  your  pheafant  is  enough 
(but  it  muft  ftew  till  there  is  juft  enough  for  fauce,  then 
fkim  it)  put  in  the  chefhuts  and  artichoke  bottoms,  a 
little  beaten  mace»  pepper,  and  fait  enough  to  feafbn  it, 
and  a  glafs  of  white  wine;  if  you  do  not  .think  it  thick 
enough,  thicken  it  with  a  litde  piece  of  butter  rolled  in ' 
flour.  Squeeze  in  a  litde  lemon,  pour  the  fauce  over 
the  pheafant,  and  have  fome  force-meat  balls  fried  and 
put  into  the  difh. 

A  good  fowl  will  do  full  as  well,  truiTed  with  the  head 
on  like  a  pheafant.  You  may  fiy  faufages  inftead  of 
force-meat  balls. 

Pheasants  a-ritaUenne.  Cut  the  livers  fmaU.  If 
only  one  pheafant  is  to  be  drefl,  take  but  half  a  dozen 
oyflers,  parboil  them,  and  put  them  into  a  ftewpan, 
with  the  liver,  a  piece  of  butter,  fome  green  onions, 

I  and 


I 

1 


PICKLING.  fiot 

andfi>tntf  parfley»  pepper  and  falt^  fome  fweet  herbs^ 
and  a  litde  all-fpice  i  let  them  ftand  a  very  litde  dme 
over  the  fire^  and  ftuff  the  pheafant  with  them  i  then 
put  ic  into  a  ftew-pan>  with  ibme  oU,  green  onions^ 
parfley,  fweet  bafil,  and  lemon  juice^  for  a  few  minutes  $ 
cake  them  ofFj  cover  the-  pheafant  with  flices  of  bacon# 
and  put  it  upon  a  fpit  i  de  fbme  paper  round  it  whilft  ife 
if  rosing.  Take  fome  oyfters^  flew  them  a  litde  in 
their  own  liquor;  put  the  yolks  of  four  eggs  into  aftew* 
pan  with  half  a  lemcMi  cut  in  dice^  a  litde  beaten  pepper 
and  nutmeg,  chopped  parfley,  an  anchovy  cut  fmall^  a 
glafs  of  white  wine,  a  piece  of  butter,  and  a  litde  ham 
cuUis :  let  (he  fauce  thicken  without  butning,  put  in  the 
oyftersy  apd  make  the  fauce  rdifhing.  When  die 
pheafant  ii  done,  lay  it  in  the  difh  and  pour  ttu:  fauce 
aver  it. 


■k 


P    I    C    K    L    I    N    6. 

The  knowledge  of  pickling  is  very  e0endal  iil  a  fk^ 
mily,  but  it  is  to  be  lamented  that  the  health  of  indi^ 
viduals  is  often  endangered,  merely  to  gratify  fancy^ 
Things  known  to  be  pernicious  are  frequently  niade 
u(e  of,  to  give  a  brighter  coloiir  to  the  article  meant  to 
be  pickled.  It  is  indeed  a  Common  pradice  t<rmake 
ufe  of  brafs  utenfils,  that  the  verdigreafe  extrafted  fix>m 
it  may  give  an  additional  tint  to  all  pickles  intended  to 
be  green;  not  conGdering  that  this  is  communicatii^  an 
abibkjte  poifon  to  that  which  b  preparing  for  food. 
Such  inconfiderate  proceedings,  it  is  boped^  will  here- 
after be  avoided^  efpecially  as  there  is  fto  neceffity  for 

Vol.  II.  D  d  having 


•f*-. 


aoa 


PICKLING. 


recdurlc  to  luch  pernicious  means,  when  thefe-  articles 
will  become  equally  green,  by  keeping  them  of  a  pro- 
per heat  upon  the  hearth,  without  the  help  of  brals  or 
verdigreafe  of  any  kind.  It  is  therefore  highly  proper 
to  be  very  particular  in  keeping  the  pickles  from  fuch 
thingSj  and  following  ftridtly  the  direftions  given  with  re- 
Ipedb  to  all  kinds  of  pickles,  which  are  greeoed  only  by 
pouring  your  vinegar  hot  upon  them,  and  it  will  keep 
them  a  long  time.  Stone  jars  are  moft  proper  for  all 
forts  of  pickles,  for  though  they  are  expenfive  in  the 
.  firft  purchafe,  yet  they  will,  in  the  end,  be  found  much 
cheaper  than  earthen  veffels,  through  which,  it  has  been 
found  by  experience,  fait  and  vinegar  will  penetrate^ 
cfpecially  when  put  in  hot.  Be  careful  never  to  put 
your  fingers  in  to  take  the  pickles  out,  as  it  will  foon  ipoil 
them,  but  always  make  ufe  of  a  fpoon  upon  thofe  oc- 
cafions. 

Whenever  pickles  are  wanted  to  look  white,  you  muft 
ufe  double  diitiUed  vinegar. 

Lemon  Pickle.  Take  twenty-four  lemons,  grate  ofF 
the  out-rinds  very  thin,  and  cut  them  in  four  quarters, 
but  leave  the  bottoms  whole  i  ftrew  on  them  equally 
half  a  pound  of  bay-falt,  and  fpread  them  on  a  lai^ 
pewter  dilh;  either  put  them  in  a  cool  oven,  or  let 
them  dry  gradually  by  the  fire,  till  all  the  juice  is  dried 
into  the  peels ;  then  put  them  into  a  well  glazed  pitch* 
er,  with  an  ounce  of  mace,  and  half  an  ounce  of  cloves 
beat^fincat  an  ounce  of  nutmeg  cut  into  thin  dices,  four 
ounces  of  garlic  peeled,  half  a  pint  of  muftard  feed 
bruifed  a  littlc>  and  tied  in  a  muflin  bag  i  pour  two 
quarts  of  boiling  white  wine  vihcgar  upon  them,  clofc 
rhe  pitcher  well  up,  and  let  it  ftand  five  or  fix  days  by 

the 


PICKLING.  aos 

the  fire;  fhakeit  well  up  every  day,  then  tie  it  up,  and 
let  ftand  for  three  months  to  take  off  the  bitter.  When 
you  bottle  it,  put  the  pickle  and  lemon  in  a  hair  fiev^ 
prefs  them  well  to  get  out  the  liquor,  and  let  it  ftand  till 
another  day,  then  pour  off  the  fine  and  botdc  it.  Let  the 
other  ftand  three  or  four  days^j  ahd  it  will  refine  itfelf : 
pour  it  ofi^  and  proceed  thus  till  the  whole  is  refined.  It 
may  be  put  into  any  white  fauce,  and  wiU  not  hurt  the 
colour.  It  is  very  good  for  fifh-fauce  and  made-diflies : 
a  tea  fpoonful  is  enough  for  white,  and  two  for  brown 
(auce  for  a  fowl.  It  is  a  moft  ufeful  pickle,  and  gives 
a  pleafant  flavour.  Always  put  it  in  before  you  thicken 
the  fauce,  or  put  any  cream  in>  left  the  iharpneis  ihould 
inake  it  curdle. 

To  pickle  Gherkins.  Put  what  quantity  of  fmalJ 
cucumbers  you  think  fit  in  a  ftone  jar,  and  take  as 
much  fpring  water  as  will  cover  them ;  to  every  gallon 
of  water  put  as  much  fait  as  will  make  it  bear  an  egg, 
fet  it  on  the  fire,  and  let  it  boil  two  or  three  minutes, 
then  pour  it  on  your  cucumbers,  cover  them  widi  a 
woollen  cloth,  over  that  a  pewter  difh ;  tie  them  down 
clofe,  and  let  them  ftand  twenty-four  hours,  then  lay 
them  in  a  cloth,  with  another  over  them  to  dry  them : 
then  put  them  in  a  jar  with  a  little  dill  and  fennel.  Tq 
every  three  quarts  of  vinegar^  one  quart  of  fpring  water, 
till  you  have  enough  to  cover  them,  put, in  fome  bay 
felt  and  white.  To  every  gallon  of  pickle  allow  one  nut- 
tneg  cut  in  quarters,  a  quarter  of  an  ounce  of  cloves,  a 
quarter  of  an  ounce  of  mace,  a  quarter  of  an  ounce  of 
whole  pepper^  and  a  large  race  of  ginger  fliced ;  boil  the 
vinegar  in  a  bell  metal  or  copper  pot,  pour  it  boiling 
hot  on  your  cucumbers,  and  coyer  them. 

D  d  a  You 


n 


»04  PICKLING. 

You  .are  to  put  the  fpice  in  the  jar  mth  the  cucuncw 
bets,  and  boil  the  vinegar^  water,  and  fait,  and  pour 
ftver  them.  The  boiling  of  your  fpice  in  all  pickles 
fpoiis  them,  and  lofcs  the  flavour  of  the  fpice — See  alfo 
Cucumbers. 

^0  pickle  Bbet  Roots.  Boil  them  tender,  peel  them* 
and'  if  agreeable,  cut  them  into  (hapes  i  pour  over  them 
a*  hot  pickle  of  white  wine  vinegar,  a  little  pepper,  gin<» 
ger,  and  hor£b-radifh  diced.  They  are  a  pretty  garnifli 
for  made  difhes. 

To  pickle  Onions.  Peel  fome  fmall  oniona,  and  put 
(hem  into  fait  and  water ;  fhift  them  once  a  day  (or  three 
days,  then  fet  them  over  the  fire  in  milk  and  water  till 
ready  to  boil ;  dry  them,  pour  over  them  the  fbjjowing 
pickle  when  boiled,  and  cold :  Douhle-diftilled  vinegar, 
fait,  mace,  apd  one  or  two  bay-leaves ;  they  will  not 
look  white  with  any  other  vinegar. 

Jbiother  way.  Take  a  fufficient  number  of  the  fmalleft 
pnions  you  can  get,  and  put  them  into  fait  and  water  for 
nine  days,  obferving  to  change  the  water  every  day : 
then  put  them  into  jars,  and  pour  frefli  boiling  fait  and 
water  over  them.  Let  them  fland  clofe  covered  till  they 
are  cold,  then  make  fome  more  fait  and  water,  and 
pour  it  boiling  hot  upon  them.  When  it  is  cold,  put 
your  onions  into  a  hair  ficve  to  drain,  then  put  them 
into  wide-mouthed  bottles,  and  fill:  them  up  with  dif- 
tilled  vinegar.  Put  into  every  botde  a  flice  or  two  of 
ginger^  a  blade  of  mace,' and  a  large  tea  fpoonful  of  eating 
oil,  which  will  keep  the  onions  white.  If  you  like  thetafte 
of  bay-leaf,  you  may  put  one  or  two  into  every  botde, 
and  as  much  bay-falt  as  will  lie  on  a  fix-pence  :  cork 
them  well  up. 

I  To 


P    1    C    K    L    I .  N    O.  «c| 

To  fickk  Nastujitivm  Buds.  After  the  bloflbmt 
are  gone  off^  gather  the  litde  knobsj  an4  put  them  intct 
cold  fait  and  water  $  Ihift  them  once  a  day  for  diree  fuc-» 
ceffive  days,  then  make  a  coM  pickle  of  white  win^ 
vinegar,  a  little  white  wine,  ihallot»  pepper,  cloves, 
mace,  nutmeg  quartered,  and  horfe-radifli*  Put  in 
the  buds. 

To  fickk  Walnuts.  Waih  them  and  put  them  intti 
a  kettle,  fcald  them,  then  rub  off  the  outer  Ikin  nis^h  a 
piece  of  flannel,  and  let  them  lie  till  they  are  quite 
edld  i  then  throw  them  into  cold  water  and  fait,  and 
liaving  lain  in  it  twenty-four  hours,  fliift  them,  repeat* 
ing  this  for  twelve  or :  fourteen  days  s  then  dry  thenv 
and  put  them  into  a  glazed  earthen  ve0el,  layer  upott 
layer :  interfperfe  with  fpice,  whole  muftard  feed,  horfe** 
radiih  diced,  fliallots,  and  three  or  four  doves  of  gar-* 
lick  i  or  if  you  think  that  too  ilrong,  as  many  cloves  of 
fliallot.  This  continue  till  the  pot  is  full ;  then  fill  up 
die  pot,  or  fo  much  as  will  cover  them,  with  boiling 
hot  vinegar,  and  cover  the  pot  clofe;  the  next  day 
pour  off  the  vinegar  from  them,  without  difturbing  or 
difplacing  the  walnuts  and  fpices,  &c.  and  boiling  it 
again  pour  it  upon  them  as  before  i  flop  them  up  clofe, 
and  let  them  by  for  ufe. 

They  may  be  eaten  in  three  weeks  or  a  month,  but 
not  iboner ;  will  grow  better  and  better  by  being  kept  a 
few  months. 

Anotbir  way,.  Tak«  French  walnuts  in  July,  beforet 
the  Ihell  is  grown  hard,  jufl:  give  them  a  fcald  that  tho 
firfl  fkin  may  rub  off;  then  put  them  into  water  and 
iait  for  nine  or  ten  days,  ihifting  them  every  other  day, 

keep- 


fo^        PI  c  K  r  I  N  g: 

kecpinj^  tHem  clofe  covered  from  the  air ;    then  dry 
thern,  and  prepare  the  pickle  as  follows : 

For  half  a  hundred  of  large  nuts,  take  two  quarts  of 
white  wine  vinegar,  long  pepper,  black  pepper  and 
ginger,  of  each  half  an  ounce ;  cloves,  mace,  and  nut-» 
fnegs^  of  each  a  quarter  of  an  ounces  pound  the  fpice^ 
and  with  it  a  Ipoonful  of  muftard  feed  -,  ftrew  this  be* 
tween  every  layer  of  walnuts,  and  pour  the  liquor  boil- 
ing hot  upon  them  three  or  four  times,  or  oftener,  if  you 
find  occafion.     Take  care  to  keep  them  clofe  (topped. 

To  ftckk  Mushrooms.  Take  the  fmalleO:  mufli^ 
rooms  you  can  get,  and  put  them  into  ipring  water> 
dicn  rub  them  with  a  piece  of  new  flannel  dipped  in 
ialt,  and  put  them  into  cold  ipring  water  as  you  rub 
them  to  keep  their  colour  j  then  put  them  into  a  laucc- 
pan,  throw  a  handful  of  fait  over  them,  cover  them 
clofe,  and  fet  them  over  the  fire  four  or  five  minutes,  or 
till  you  fee  they  are  thoroughly  hot,  and  the  liquor  is 
drawn  out  of  them  5  then  lay  them  between  two  clean 
cloths  till  they  are  cold  5  put  them  into  glafs  bottles^ 
and  fill  them  up  with  diftilled  vinegar  5  pvt  a  blade  or 
two  of  mace,  and  a  tea-fpoonful  of  good  oil  in  every 
bptde ;  cork  them  up  clQfe>  and  fet  them  in  a  cool 
place. 

If  you  have  not  any  difKUcd  vinegar,  you  may  ule 
white  wine  vinegar,  or  even  allegar,  but  it  muft  be 
boiled  with  a  little  mace,  fait,  and  a  few  flices  of  gin- 
ger ;  and  muft  be  cold  before  you  pour  it  on  your  mufh- 
rooms.  If  your  vinegar  or  allegar  is  too  Iharp,  it  will 
make  your  muihrooms  foft ;  neither  will  they  keep  fb 
long,  or  appear  fo  whit*. 


A 


P    I-C    K    LI    N    G.  407 

To  fickle  Cauliflowers.  Take  the  largeft  and 
clofcft  you  can  get  -,  pull  them  into  Iprigs,  put  them  in 
an  earthen  difh,  and  fprinkle  fak  over  them :  let  them 
Itand  twenty-four  hours  to  draw  out  all  the  water,  then 
put  them  in  ajar,  and  pour  fait  and  water  boiling  over 
them;  cover  them  clofe,  and  let  them  ftand  till  the 
next  day ;  then  take  them  out  and  lay  them  on  a  coarfe 
cloth  to  drain  -,  put  them  into  glafs  jars,  and  put  in  a 
nutmeg  diced,  and  two  or  three  blades  of  mace  in  each 
jar:  cover  them  with  difliiled  vin^r,  and  tie. them 
down  with  a  bladder,  and  over  that  a  leather.  They 
wjll  be  fit  for  ufe  an  a  month. 

Another  way.  Take  the  clofeft  and  whiteft  cau-' 
liSowers  you  can  get,  pull  them  in  branches,  and 
^rcad  them  on  an  earthen  dilh,  laying  fait  all  over 
them  J  let  them  ftand  for  three  days  to  bring  out  all  the 
water,  then  put  them  in  earthen  jars,  and  pour  boiling 
fk\t  and  water  upon  them,  and  let  them  ftand  all  night ; 
drain  them  on  a  hair  fieve,  and  put  them  into  glafi 
jars ;  fill  up  your  jars  with  diftiUed  vinegar,  and  tic 
them  clofe  down  with  leather. 

To  pickle  French  Beans.  Pour  boiling-hot  wine 
over  your  French  beans,  and  cover  them  clofe  j  the  next 
day  drain  them  and  dry  them ;  then  pour  over  them  a 
boiling-hot  pickle  of  white  wine  vinegar,  Jamaica  pep- 
per, black  pepper,  a  litde  mace  and  ginger:  repeat 
this  for  two  or  three  days,  or  till  the  French  beans  look 
green. — See  Beans. 

To  pickle  Red  Cabbage.  Slice  your  cabbage  crofi- 
ways,  put  it  on  an  earthen  dilh,  and  fprinkle  a  handful 
of  fait  over  it  j  cover  it  with  another  difh,  and  let  it 
ftand  twqity-four  hours,  then  put  it  into  a  cuUendar  to 

drain. 


sol  P    1  .C    K    L    I    N    O. 

drain^'and  lay  it  in  your  jar*  Take  white  wine  vinegar 
enough  CO  cover  it>  a  little  cloves^  mace^  and  all-fpice  ; 
put  them  in  whole^  with  a  little  cochineal  bruiled  fine  : 
then  boil  it  up>  and  pour  it  either  hot  or  cold  on  your 
cabbage :  cover  it  clofe  with  a  cloth  till  it  is  cold,  if 
you  pour  on  the  pickle  hot,  and  then  tie  it  up  clofe,  as 
you  do  other  pickles. 

Another  way.  Take  a  fine  clofe  red  cabbage  and  cut 
it  diin ;  then  take  fbme  cold  allegar,  and  put  to  it 
two  or  three  blades  of  macci  and  a  few  white  pepper- 
corns ;  make  it  pretty  ffa-ong  with  fait,  and  put  your 
cabbage  into  the  allegar  as  you  cut  it ;  tie  it  clofe  down 
with  a  bladder,  and  a  paper  over  that.  In  a  day  or 
two  it  win  be  fit  for  ufe.<«^ee  Cabbagb. 

Indian  Picklb,  or  Peccadillo.  Quarter  a  white 
cabbage  and  cauliflower ;  take  alio  cucumbers^  melons^ 
apples,  French  beans,  plums,  all  or  any  of'thefe;  lay 
them  on  a  hair  fieve,  Ifa-ew  over  a  large  handful  of  fait, 
let  them  in  the  fun  for  three  or  four  days,  or  till  very 
dry :  put  them  into  a  ftone  jar  with  the  following  pickle : 
Put  a  pound  of  race  ginger  into  fait  and  water,  the  next 
day  fcrape  and  flice  it,  fait  it,  and  dry  it  in  the  fun; 
ffice,  fait,  and  dry  a  pound  of  garlic ;  put  thefe  into  a 
gallon  of  vinegar,  with  two  ounces  of  long  pepper,  half 
an  ounce  of  turmeric,  and  four  ounces  of  muflard  feed 
bruifcd;  flop  the  pickle  clofe,  then  prepare  the  cab^ 
bage^  &c«    If  the  fruit  is  put  in,  it  mufl  be  green. 

The  jar  need  not  ever  be  emptied,  but  put  in  the 
things  as  they  come  into  feafon,  adding  frefh  vinegar^ 

^0  pickle  Samphire.  Take  the  famf^ire*  that  is 
green>  piit  it  into  a  clean  pan,  and  throw  over  it  two  6r 
three  handfula  of  fait  i  then  cover  it  with  fpring  water : 

let 


PIES.  ao9 

fet  it  lie  twenty-four  hours,  then  put  it  itito  a  clean 
faucepan,  throw  in  a  handful  of  (alt,  and  cover  it  with 
good  vinegar :  cover  the  pan  clofe  and  fet  it  over  a  flow 
fire.  Let  it  Hand  till  it  is  juft  green  and  criip,  and  theii 
take  it  off  at  that  moment ;  for  if  it  fhould  ricmain  till 
it  is  foft,  it  wiU  be  Ipoikd :  put  it  in  your  pickling-poti 
and  cover  it  clofe.  As  ibon  as  it  is  cold,  tie  it  down 
with  a  bladder  and  leather,  and  keep  it  for  ufe.  Or  yoti 
may  keep  it  all  the  year  in  a  very  ftrong  brine  of  fait 
and  water,  and  throw  it  into  vinegar  juft  before  you  ufe 
k.--^ee  likewife  the  articles,  Artichokssj  Capzks^ 
and  Cucumbers* 


1      E 


All  raifed  pies  fhould  have  a  quick  oveni  and  be  well 
doled,  or  they  will  fall  in  the  fides ;  nor  fhould  any 
water  be  put  into  them,  until  immediately  before  you 
bake  them  s  as,  beCides  giving  it  a  fbdden  appearance^ 
it  would  likely  occafion  the  pafte  to  nin.  Light  paftc 
requires  a  moderate  oven  -,  too  flow  a  one  makes  it  look 
heavf  i  and  a  quick  oven  bums,  without  giving  it  time 
to  rife. 

Ingredients  for  fweer  Fns,  The  meat,  fifli,  or  fowls> 
Ipice,  balls,  citron,  lemon  and  orange  peel  candied> 
Spanifh  potatoes,  flcirrics,  raifins^  currants,  grapes, 
damfonS)  goofeberries,  fugar,  and  a  caudle^ 

Ingredients  forfavoury  Pies.  The  meat,  fifh,  or  fowls^ 
ipice,    ballsi    bacon,   lambs-ftones,    fliivcred  palates, 

Vot.  IL  E  c  cocks 


4td  P       1       E       S. 

cocks-combs  and  ftones,  oyfters^  artichoke  bottoms* 
mufhrooms,  tru01es,  and  a  lear. 

An  Jfple  Pie.  Scald  about  a  dozen  appks  very 
tender^  and  take  off  the  (km,  then  take  the  pulp  of  them 
and  put  to  it  twelve  eggs,  but  fix  whites,  beat  them 
very  well,  and  take  the  crumb  of  a  penny  k>af  grated^ 
iugar  it  to  your  tafte,  and  put  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of 
butter  melted,  mix  them  tc^ether  and  bake  them  in  a 
difti  J  butter  your  dilh,  and  mind  that  the  oven  is  not 
too  hot.— See  Apples,— You  may  make  a  pear  pie  in 
the  above  manner,  or  according  to  the  recipe,  vol.  L 
p.  1 7  i  but  omit  the  quince  in  the  latter  way. 

An  Artichoke  Pie.  Boil  twelve  artichoke  bottoms 
tender,  boil  the  yolks  of  twelve  eggs  hard;  three 
ounces  of  candied  orange,  lemon,  and  citron  peel,  half 
a  pound  df  raifins  ftoned,  fbme  grated  nutmeg,  a  blade 
of  mace,  and  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  fugar ;  put  thefe 
into  your  pie  with  half  a  pound  of  butter, .  obfe'rving  to 
lay  the  iweetmeats  uppermoft ;  when  it  comes  out  of 
the  oven,  put  in  half  a  pint  of  cream  and  as  much 
fack. 

A  Beaf'Jleak  Pie.  Take  four  or  five  rump  fteaks, 
beat  them  very  well  with  a  pafte-pin,  feafon  them  with 
pepper  and  fak,  lay  a  good  pufi^-pafte  round  the  difli, 
and  put  a  little  water  in  the  bottom ;  then  lay  the  fteaks 
in,  with  a  lump  of  butter  upon  every  fl:eak,  and  put  on 
the  lid.  Cut  a  little  pafte  in  what  form  you  pleafe,  and 
lay  it  on. 

A  Bridies  Pie.  Having  boiled  two  calves  feet,  take 
the  meat  ifrom  the  bones,  and  chop  it  very  finall  j  take 
a  pound  of  btef  fuct  and  a  pound  of  apples,  (bred  them 
&wli,  wafh  and  pick  one  pound  of  currants,  dry  them 

before 


PIES.  an 

be&re  the  fire,  ftone  a^d  chop  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of 
jar  raifins>  a  quarter  of  an  ounce  of  cinnamon,  the  fame 
quantity  of  mace  and  nutmeg,  two  ounces  of  candied 
citron,  the  fame  of  lemon  cut  thin,  a  glals  of  brandy, 
and  one  of  champagne  ;  put  them  in  a  china  diih,  with 
4  rich  pufT-pafte  over  it ;  roll  another  lid,  and  cut  it  in 
leaves,  flowers,  figures,  &c, 

.  4  Calfsfo^t  Pie,  Put  your  calves  feet  into  a  fauce^ 
pan,  with  three  quarts  of  water,  and  three  or  four 
blades  of  mace ;  let  them  boil  foftly  till  there  is  about  a 
pint  and  a  half:  then  take  out  the  feet,  ftrain  the 
liquor,  and  make  a  good  cruft.  Cover  your  diih,.  then 
pick  olF  the  flelh  fi-om  the  bones,  and  lay  half  in^the 
diih :  flxew  over  it  half  a  pound  of  currants,  clean 
waflied  and  picked,  and  half  a  pound  of  raifins  ftoned  i 
then  lay  on  the  reft  oCthe  meat  i  fldm  the  liquor,  iweeten 
it  to  your  taftc,  and  put  in  half  a  pint  of  white  wine ; 
pour  all  into  the  difh,  put  on  your  lid,  and  bake  it  an 
hour  and  a  half. 

A  Trennill  Pie.  Take  a  trennill  of  a  good  fat  cal^ 
open  and  walh  it  in  many  waters  very  clean,  let  it  lie 
all  night  in  fait,  and  boil  it  till  it  is  tender  i  then  Ihred 
it  as  fmall  as  minced  pie  meat,  and  feaibn  it  with 
Jamaica  pepper  and  fait ;  take  prunes,  raifins,  currants, 
and  fugar,  of  e^ich  half  a  pound  j  pick  the  currants, 
ftone  the  raifins  and  prunes,  cut  and  mix«  them  all 
together. 

.  ji  Calfs'head  Pie.  Take  a  calPs  head  and  parboil 
it ;  when  it  is  cold,  cut  it  in  pieces,  and  feafon  it  well 
with  pepper  and  fait :  put  it  in  a  raifed  cruft,  with  half 
a  pint  of  firong  gravy ;  let  it  bake  an  hour  and  a  half, 

E  e  2  When 


212  PIES. 

When  it  comes  out  of  the  oveo^  cut  off  the  lid^  aa^ 
chop  the  yolks  of  three  hard  eggs  fmall ;  ilrew  thein 
over  die  top  of  the  pie,  lay  on  three  or  four  flices  of 
lemon,  and  pour  on  fbme  melted  butter.  Send  it  to 
table  without  a  lid. 

Another.  Parboil  half  a  calf's  head,  then  cut  it  inte 
thin  flices ;  feaibn  with  pepper  and  fait  i  lay  it  in  a  cruft 
with  a  litde  good  gravy,  ibme  force-meat  balls,  and  the 
yolks  of  eggs  boiled  hard ;  bake  it  about  an  hour  and  9- 
hal^  and  then  cut  off  the  lid :  thicken  fome  good  gravy 
with  a  litde  flour,  add  fome  oyfters,  and  ferve  it  without 
a  lid.  You  niay  indeed,  if  you  choofe  it,  ferve  it  with 
the  lid  on. 

A  Cherry  Pie.  Make  a  good  cruft,  lay  a  little  of  it 
round  the  iides  of  your  difli,  and  throw  fugar  at  the  bot- 
tom; then  lay  in  your  fruit,  and  fome  fugar  at  the  top^ 
Some  red  currants  added  to  the  cherries  are  a  great  im- 
provement. Then  put  on  your  lid,  and  bake  it  \n  a 
flack  oven. 

A  plum  pie,  or  a  goofoberry  pie,  may  be  made  in 
the  fame  nftanner. 

Afavoury  Chicken  Pie.  Procure  fome  fmall  chickens^i 
feafon  them  with  mace,  pepper,  and  fait :  put  a  )ump 
of  butter  into  each  of  them,  lay  them  in  the  difli  with 
the  breafls  up,  and  put  a  thin  flice  of  bacon  over  them, 
it  will  give  them  a  pleafant  flavour ;  then  put  in  a  pint 
of  ftrong  gravy,  and  make  a  good  puff-pafl:e ;  lid  it, 
and  bake  it  in  a  moderate  oven.  French  cooks  uiually 
add  morells  and  yolks  of  eggs  chopped  fmall, 

A  rich  Chicken  Pie.  Cover  the  bottom  of  the  ifti 
with  a  pvff-paftc,  and  upon  that,  round  the  fide,  lay  a 

thin 


\ « 


PIES.  aij 

thin  layer  of  force-meat ;  cut  two  fmall  chicjccns  inta 
pieces>  feafon  them  high  with  pepper  and  fait ',  put  fomc 
of  the  pieces  into  the  difh,  then  a  fweetbread  or  two, 
cut  into  pieces  and  well  feafbned^  a  few  truffles  and 
morels^  ibme  artichoke  bottoms^  cut  each  into  four 
pieces^  then  die  remainder  of  the  chickens^  ibme  force-* 
nieat  balls^  yolks  of  eggs  boiled  hard^  chopped  a  littl^ 
^nd  ftrewed  over  the  top,  a  little  water ;  cover  the  pic; 
when  it  comes  from  the  oven,  pour  in  a.  rich  gravy, 
thickened  with  a  litde  dour  and  butter,  To  make  the 
pie  ftill  richer,  frefh  mulhrooms,  alparagus  tops,  an4 
cocks-combs  itiay  be  added'. 

The  chickens  are  fometimes  larded  with  bacon,  and 
ftuffed  with  fweet  herbs,  pepper,  nutmeg,  and  mace : 
yqq  Ihould  then  only  (lit  ;hem  4own|  and  lay  them  in 
the  pie. 

Codling  PiE.-T-See  Apple, 

J  'Devonjhire  Squab  Pie.  Cover  the  dilh  with  a  good 
cruft,  put  at  the  bottom  a  layer  of  flicefl  pippins,  then 
a  layer  of  mutton-fteaks  cut  from  the  loin,  well  foafoned 
with  pepper  and  fait,  then  another  layer  of  pippins; 
peel  fome  onions,  and  ilice  them  thin,  lay  a  layer  all 
pver  the  apples,  then  a  layer  of  mutton,  then  pippins 
and  oniony  i  pour  in  a  pint  of  water^  clofe  your  pie,  and 
bake  it. 

A  Duck  Pie.  Take  two  ducks,  fcald  thenp,  and 
make  them  very  clean  5  cut  off  the  feet,  the  pinions^ 
the  neck,  and  head,  pick  them  all  clean,  and  fcald  them. 
Pick  out  the  fat  of  the  infide,  lay  a  good  puff-pafte  croft 
^  over  yqur  difli,  feafon  the  ducks  both  infide  and  out 

with 


CI4  PIES. 

with  ptpper  and  falt^  and  lay  them  in  your  difh>  witb 
the  giblets  at  each  end  properly  feaibnq;! :  put  in  as 
much  water  as  will  almoft  fill  the  pie>  and  lay  on  the 
cruft. 

jin  Eel  Pie.  Having  cut  your  eels  in  pieces,  feafon 
them  with  pepper  and  falt^  and  a  very  little  dried  fage  i 
put  them  into  a  piiff-pafte,  fiU  the  pie  widi  water,  and 
butter  it  well. 

Another.  After  flcinning  and  walhing  your  eels»  cut 
fhem  in  pieces  of  about  an  inch  and  a  half  long,  feafon 
them  with  pepper,  (alt,  and  a  litde  dried  fage  rubbed 
fmall  I  raife  your  pies  about  the  fize  of  the  infide  of  a 
plate^  fill  your  pies  with  eels;  lay  a  lid  over  them,  and 
bake  them  in  a  quick  oven.  They  require  to  be  well 
baked. 

A  French  Pie.  Lay  a  pufF-pafle  half  an  inch  thicl( 
at  the  bottom  of  a  deep  dilh ;  lay  a  force-rtieat  round 
the  fides  of  4he  difh ;  cut  fome  fweetbreads  in  pieces, 
three  or  four,  according  to  the  fize  the  pie  is  iotended 
to  be  made ;  lay  diem  in  firfl,  then  fome  anichoke  bot-^ 
toms,  cut  into  four  pieces  each,  then  fome  cocks-., 
combs,  (or  they  may  be  omitted)  a  few  truffles  and 
morels^  fome  afparagus  tops,  and  frelli  muihrooms,  if 
to  be  had,  yolks  of  eggs  boiled  hard,  and  force-meat 
balls ;  feafon  with  pepper  and  fait.  Almofl  fill  the  pic 
with  water,  cover  it,  and  bake  it  two  hours :  when  it 
comes  from  the  oven,  pour  in  fome  rich  veal  gravy, 
thickened  with  a  very  litrie  cream  and  flour. 

A  plain  Goofe  Pie.  Quarter  your  goofc,  feafon  it 
well,  and  lay  it  in  a  raifed  crufl ;  cut  half  a  pound  of 

butter 


PI      E      S»  fti^ 

butter  into  pieces^  and  put  it  on  the  top  i  lay  on  the 
lid,  and  bake  it  gently. 

J  rich  Goofe  Pie,  Take  a  goofe  and  a  fowl,  bone 
them,  ajui  feafon  them  well;  put  the  fowl  into  the 
goofe,  and  fome  force-meat  into  the  fowl ;  put  thcfe 
into  a  raifed  cruft,  and  fill  the  corners  with  a  little  force- 
meat ;  lay  half  a  pound  of  butter  on  the  top,  cut  into 
pieces ;  cover  it,  and  let  it  be  well  baked. 

Goofe  pie  is  eaten  cold. 

A  good  Goofe  Pie.  Make  the  walls  of  a  goofe  pie 
with  about  half  a  peck  of  flour,  raife  your  cruftjuft  big 
enough  to  hold  your  goofe ;  firft  have  a  pickled  dried 
tongue,  boiled  tender  enough  to  peel,  cut  off  the  roo^ 
bone  the  goofe  and  a  large  fowl,  take  half  a  quarter  of 
an  ounce  of  mace  beat  fine,  three  tea*lpoonfUls  of  fait, 
a  tea-fpoonful  of  beaten  pepper,  and  mix  all  together, 
feafon  your  fowl  and  goofe  with  it,  then  lay  your  fowl  in 
the  goofe,  and  the  tongue  in  the  fowl,  and  the  goofe  in 
the  iame  form  as  if  whole :  put  half  a  pound  of  butter 
on  the  top,  and  lay  on  the  lid.  This  pie  is  delicious 
other  hot  or  cold,  and  will  keep  a  great  while.  A  Dice 
of  this  pie  makes  a  pretty  fide-difh  for  fupper. 

A  Giblet  Pie.  Let  two  pair  of  giblets  be  nicely 
cleaned,  put  all  but  the  livers  into  a  faucepan,  with  two 
quarts  of  water,  twenty  corns  of  whole  pepper,  three 
blades  o(  mace,  a  bundle  of  fweet  herbs,  and  a  large 
onion  j  cover  them  clofe,  and  let  them  flew  very  fofdy 
till  they  are  quite  tender ;  then  have  a  good  cruft  ready, 
cover  your  difh,  lay  a  fine  rump  fteak  at  the  bottom, 
feafoned  with  pepper  and  fait ;  then  lay  in  your  giblets 
with  the  livers,  and  fbain  the  liquor  they  were  ftewed 
I  in. 


• 


ai6  PIES. 

in.    Scafon  it  with  falt^  and  put  into  youf  pie  >  pot  on 
the  lidy  and  bake  it  an  hour  and  a  half. 

A  Ham  Pib.    Bone  the  ham>  and  trim  it  property  $ 
in  the  trimming  take  care  to  cut  ofF  all  the  rufty  fat  or 
lean,  till  you  come  to  the  wholefbme-looking  flefli :  if 
an  old  ham>  foak  it  twenty-four  hours ;  if  fiefh>  fix  or 
eight  hours  -,  then  braze  it  with  flices  of  beef^  flices  oF 
bacon>  fome  butter,  and  hog's  lard>  a  large  faggot  oT 
fweet  herbs,  all  forts  of  roots,  and  whole  pepper;  braze 
it  till  three  parts  done ;  then  let  it  cool,  and  put  it  in  a 
raifed  pafte,  with  the  liquid,  and  a  gill  of  brandy ;  bake 
it  an  hour,  and  let  it  cool  before  ufing*     If  it  is  to  be 
fcrvcd  hpt,  (kimoflfthe  fat  very  clean,  and  fervewith  a 
lelifhing  cullis  fauce,  without  fait. 

jt  Hare  Pie.  Cut  your  hare  in  pieces,  and  feaibn  it 
well  with  pepper,  fait,  nutmegs  and  mace ;  then  put  it 
in  a  jug  with  half  a  pound  of  butter  -,  cover  it  clofe  up 
with  a  pafte  or  doth,  fet  it  in  a  copper  of  boiling  water, 
m^  let  it  flew  an  hour  and  a  half;  then  take  it  out  to 
cool,  and  make  a  rich  force-meat^  of  a  quarter  of  a 
pound  of  fcraped  bacon,  two  onions,  a  glais  of  red 
wine,  the  crumb  of  a  penny  loaf,  a  little  winter  favoury, 
the  liver  cut  fmall,  a  litde  nutmeg,  feaibn  it  high  with 
pepper  and  fait ;  mix  it  well  up  with  the  yolks  of  three 
eggs,  raife  the  pie,  anc^  lay  the  force-meat  in  the  bot- 
tom ;  lay  in  the  hare,  with  the  gravy  that  came  out  of 
it ;  lay  the  lid  oii,  and  put  flowers  or  leaves  on  it :  bake 
it  an  hour  and  half  It  is  a  very  handfbme  fide-difh  for 
a  large  table. 

Jn  Herb  Pie  for  Lent.    Take  an  equal  quantity  of 
Ipinach,   lettuce,   leeks,   beets,  and  parfley,   about  a 

hand* 


F     I      E      S.  917 

handful  of  etch ;  boil  them,  and  chop  them  fmalL  Have 
ready  boiled  in  a  cloth>  a  quart  of  groai:s,  with  two  or 
tjirce  onions  among  them ;  put  them  and  the  herbs  into 
a  fiying-pan,  with  a  pretty  large  quantity  of  fait,  a 
pound  of  butter,  and  Ibme  apples  cut  thin  -,  ftcw  them 
a  few  minutes  over  the  fire,  fill  your  di(h  or  raifed  cruft 
with  it  5  bake  it  an  hour,  and  fervc  it  up, 

ALohfttr  Pie.  Boil  two  lobfters,  and  take  the  meat 
out  of  the  fliells ;  feafbn  them  with  pepper,  nuK:e,  and 
nutmeg,  beat  fine ;  bruife  the  bodies,  and  mix  them 
with  ibme  oyfters,  if  in  feafbn ;  cut  fine  a  fmall  onion, 
and  a  little  parfley,  and  add  a  little  grated  bread  i  f^iibn 
with  a  little  fait,  pepper,  fpice,  and  the  yolk?  of  two 
raw  eggs  %  make  this  into  balls,  then  make  fbme  good 
puiF-pafte,  butter  the  difh,  lay  in  the  tails,  daw^^  and 
balls  $  cover  them  with  butter,  pour  in  a  little  fiih 
gravy,  and  cover  the  pie*  Have  a  Uttle  filh  gravy 
ready  to  put  into  it  when  it  is  taken  out  of  the  oven. 

JAince  Pies.  Shred  three  pounds^  of  fuet  very  fine, 
and  chop  it  as  fmall  as  pofliblei  take  two  pounds  of 
raifins  ftoned  and  chopped  very  fine,  the  fame  quantity 
of  currants,  nicely  picked,  wafhed,,  rubbed,  and  dried 
at  the  fire.  Pare  half  a  hundred  of  fine  pippins^  core 
them,  and  chop  them  fmall  \  take  half  a  pound,  of  fine 
fugar,  and  pound  it  fine,  a  quarter  of  an  ounce  of 
mace,  a  quarter  of  an  ounce  of  doves,  and  two  large 
nutmegs,  all  beat  fines  put  all  togedier  into  a  krge 
paa»  and  mix  it  well  together  with  Ralf  a  pint  of  bran- 
dy, and  half  a  pint  of  iacks  put  it  down  clofe  in  a  fbnt 
pot,  and  it  will  keep  good  three  or  four  months.  When 
you  make  your  pies^  take  a  little  difh,  fomewhat  larger 

Vol,  II.  F  f  than 


2i8  FIES. 

than  a  ibug-plate,  lay  a  very  diin  cruft  all  over  it  i  lay 
a  thin  layer  of  mcat^  and  then  a  thin  layer  of  citron^  cut 
very  thin,  then  a  layer  of  mince-meat,  and  a  layer  of 
orange-peel  cut  thin,  over  that  a  litde  meat,  iqueeze 
half  the  juice  of  a  fine  Seville  orange  or  lemon,  lay  on 
your  cruft,  and  bake  it  nicely.  Thefe  pies  eat  very  fine 
cold.  If  you  make  them  in  little  parties,  mix  your 
meat  and  fweet-meats  accordingly.  If  you  choofe  meat 
in  your  pies,  p^boil  a  neat's  tongue,  peel  it,  and  chop 
the  meat  as  fine  as  pofllble,  and  mix  with  the  reft ;  or 
two  pounds  of  the  infide  of  a  firloin  of  beef  boiled.  But 
when  you  ufe  meat,  the  quantity  q(  fruit  muft  bo 
doubled. 

Another  way.  T<dce  a  neat's  tongue,  and  hoil  it  two 
hcmrS)  then  ikin  it,  and  chq>  it  exceedingly  fmall:  chop 
vefy  imall  three  poynds  of  beef  fuet,  three  pounds  of 
good  baking  apples,  four  pounds  of  currants  desw 
walhedjr  picked,  and  well  dried  before  the  fire,  a  poun4 
of  jar  raiftns  ftoned  and  chopped  fmall,  and  a  ppund  of 
powder  fugars  mix  them  all  together  with  half  an  ounce 
of  nrnce,  as  much,  nutmcig,  a  quarter  of  an  oqnce  of 
cloves,  a  quarter  of  an  oun^e  of  cinqamon,  and  9  pint 
c^  French  brfudy.  Make  a  rich  puff-ps^e,  ^nd  as  you 
fill  up  the  pie,  put  in  a  litde  candied  citron  and  orange> 
cut  in  litde  pieces.  What  mipce-mc^t  ypu  have  to 
ipare  put  dole  down  In  a  pot,  and  cover  it  upi  but 
never  put  any  citron  or  orange  to  it  till  you  Die  it. 

Another  firt  of  minced  Pies.  Take  a  pound  of  calves 
feet  ihred  very  fmall,  with  two  pounds  of  beef  fuet,  but 
all  the  ikin  muft  be  taken  fit>m  it  \  add  two  pounds  of 
Mjrrants  clean  pickcfl  and  wa&cdj  a  pound  o(  prunes 

fcalde4| 


PIS      S.  ai9 

Icalded,  ftoned^  and  cut  finally  half  a  pound  6f  applc^ 
pidp,  a  pound  of  almonds  blanched  and  beat  to  a  pafte^ 
half  a  pound  of  lemon-peel  cut  fmall^  half  a  pound  of 
moift  iugar^  of  red  wine  and  fack  each  half  a  gill;  fea« 
ion  to  your^afte  with  an  equal  quantity  of  cinnamon, 
mac^  nutmeg,  and  cloves  i  mix  all  weU  together,  and 
bake  as  you  need  the  pies. 

Another  way  to  make  minced  Pies.  Take  a  pound  of 
die  iatceft  btef^  and  two  pounds  of  the  kidney  (uet,  ihrcd 
them  together  till  both  are  fo  fmall  as  you  cannot  per* 
ccire  the  leaft  bit  of.  the  bee^  only  as  it  gives  a  carnation 
colour  to  the  fiiet  i  then  add  two  pounds  of  well-picked 
currants,  a  pound  of  ftoned  raifins,  and  half  a  pound  of 
prunes  fcalded,  fioned,  and  cut  finall  with  the  raifins  i 
ieaibn  with  the  above*named  fealbnings :  alio  the  wine, 
lack,  aod  the  above  quantity  of  iiigar,  with  four  ounces 
of  lemon,  and  three  ounces  of  citron-peel  cut  iinall,  and 
to  be  all  well  mixed  tc^edier. 

Mitton  and  Lamb  Pis.  Take  off  the  (kin  and  infide 
fat  of  a  loin  of  mutton,  cut  it  into  fteaks,  leafon  thend 
well  with  pepper  and  fait;  almoft  fill  the  diih  with 
water ;  put  puff-pafte  top  and  boopm :  bake  it  Well. 

Afavoury  Lamb  Pie.  Having  ieaibned  your  lamb 
widi  ialt,  pepper,  cloves,  mace,  andnutm^  put  it 
into  your  cruft,  with  a  few  fweet>  breads  and  lamb  ftonel 
feafboed  as  your  lamb;  alio  fome'hvge  oyilers,  and 
favoury  f6rce-meat  baUs,  hard  yolks  of  eggs,  and  the 
tops  of  afparagus  two  inches  long,  firft  boiled  grecn^ 
dien  put  butter  all  over  the  pie  and  lid  it,  and  fet  it  in 
a  quick  oven  an  hour  and  a  half;  dten  make  a  lear  with 
oyfter  liquor,  as  niuch  gravy,  a  little  claret  with  one 
^hovv  in  it  abd  a  grated  nutmegi    Let  diefe  have  a 

f  f  ^  boil. 


jtv>  P      I      B     S. 

boil,  thldcen  it  widi  the  yolks  of  two  or  three  tgp,  tod 
when  the  pie  is  baked  enough  put  it  in. 

Jm  Otivi  PiK.  Take  a  fillet  of  veal^  cut  it  in  thin 
flices,  rub  the  flices  over  with  yolks  of  eggs  %  ftrew 
over  tfaem  a  few  crumbs  of  bread  i  flired  a  little  kmoA 
peel  very  fine,  and  put  it  on  thexiii  with  a  little  grated 
nutmeg,  pepper  and  fait ;  roll  them  up  very  tight,  and 
lay  diem  in  a  pewter  di(h ;  pour  overthem  half  a  pint 
df  good  gravy  madeof  bones,  put  half  a  pound  of  but- 
ter over  it,  make  a  light  pafte^  and  lay  it  round  die 
difh  I  roU  thd  lid  half  an  inch  diick,  and  lay  it  on. 

A  beef  olive  pie  may  be  made  the  fame  way. 

A  Partfidgi  Fia.  Singe,  draw,  and  trufs  your  par* 
fridges  a»  for  boilbg,  flatten  the  hteaft  bones,  and  make 
a  fotte^meat  with  the  livers,  a  piece  of  butter  or  fcraped 
tard,  pepper,  fal^  chopped  parfley,  (ballots,  winter 
£ivoury,  thyme,  and  fweet  nuujoram ;  fiuff  the  par-» 
tridges  with  this,  and  fiy  them  a  little  in  butter ;  then 
put  them  in  a  raifed  cruft,  upon  flices  of  veai,  well  fea- 
ibned  >  finifli  it  as  all  others.  When  done,  if  it  is  to 
ferve  up  ho^  add  a relifhing  fauoe;  if  coU,  add  fiimc 
good  jelly  broth  fae^Mte  it  is  quite  cold. 

A  Pigemt  Pn.  Cover  your  difli  with  a  ptifi^-pafte 
truft,  let  your  pigeons  be  very  nicely  picked  and 
tkwitd,  feafoa  them  with  pepper  and  fait,  and  put  a 
good  piece  of  firefli  butter,  widi  pepper  and  fait,  in 
their  bellies  ^  lay  them  in  your  pan ;  the  necks,  gi2* 
tfurds,  livers,  pinions,  and  hearts,  lay  between,  with 
the  yolk  of  a  haid  egg,  and  beef-fteak  in  the  mkldle  i 
put  in  as  much  water  as  will  ahxx>fl:  fill  the  difli,  lay  on 
the  top  cruft,  and  bake  it  well  This  is  a  very  good 
way  to  make  a  pigeon  pie  s  but  ibme  French  cocks  fill 

the 


PIES-  ^ir 

flie  pigeons  with  a  very  high  force*n^cat^  and  lay  force* 
meat  balls  round  the  infide^  with  aipafagus  top^^  am* 
choke  bottoihsj'  imiffarooniSy  truHies^  and  onorebt  and 
ieafon  high.' 

ji  Ch^ire  Pork  Pie.  .  Having  ikiiined  a  bin  of  pork» 
cut  it  into  fteaks ;  fealbn  it  with£dt,  nutmeg,  and  pep* 
per  s  make  a  good  crufl;,  lay  a  layer  of  pork,  then  a 
layer  iA  pippins,  pared  and  cored,  and  a  little  fugar^ 
enough  CO  fweeten  the  pie,  and  then.a  layer  of  pork ;  put 
in  half  a  pint  of  white  wine,  ky  Ibme  butted  on  the  tqs, 
and  clofe  your  pie  i  if  it  be  large,  it  will  require  a  pint 
of^itewine. 

A  Rook  Pi8»  Take  half  a  dozen  young  rooks^  fkia 
diem  and  draw  them,  cut  out  the  back  bones,  iea<-  , 
ioa  ^tfi  w^l  with  pepper  and  fait,  and  lay  them  in  a 
deep  diih,  with  a  quarter  of  a  pint  of  water;  lay  half  a 
jx>und  <^  butter  6ver  them ;  make  a  good  puflT^pafte, 
and  cover  die  diih;  lay  a  paper  over.  It  requires  to 
JbeweUbekcki. 

<  '  A  RakUt  Pi£.  Cut  a  couple  of  young  rabbits  into 
quarters ;  rake  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  bacon,  and  bruife 
it  to  pieces  in  a  noarble  nnortar,  with  the  livers,  Ibme 
pq)per,  &lt,.  a  little  mace,  and  ibme  parflcy  cut  fmaU, 
fome  chives,  and  a  few  leaves  of  fweet  bafil ;  when  thele 
ore  all  beaten  fine,!  make  the  pafte,  and  cover  the  bot- 
toni  of  die  pie  with  the  feafonbig,  then  put  in  .the  rab- 
bits }  pound  ibme  more  bacon  in  a  mortar,  mix  with  it 
Sokt^  freih  fanttec,  and  cover  die  raU>iDs  with  it,  and 
over  that  lay  (bine  thin  flices  of  bacon ;  put  on  the  lid, 
and  fend  it  to  the  oven*  Itv^ill  require  two  hours 
baking.  When  done,  take  off  Jthe  lid,  take  ovu  the 
bacon,  and  fkim  off  the  fat.   ,If  there  is  not  gravy 

enough 


•222  FIE       S. 

enough  in  the  pic,  pour  in  (bme  rich  mutton  or  vc^ 
gravy^  boiling  hot. 

A  Salmon  Pib,  Lard  your  fainion  with  eel  and  an- 
chovies, foakcd  and  fcafoncd  with  fpiccs  and  fwcct  herbs, 
chopped  J  put  it  in  a  raifed  cnift  or  puff-pafte,  as  you 
think  proper;  put  butter  under  and  over,  widi  fbme  of 
the  lame  feafbning. 

Pikes,  eels,  or  any  other  kind  of  fi(h,  nuy  be  dreA 
fed  in  pies  after  the  fame  manner.  Make  all  pies  of  diis 
fort  pretty  relifliing  with  lemon :  you  may  alio  make  it 
without  larding  it,  as  above. 

Another*  Boil  your  falmon  as  if  you  intended  it  Tor 
eating ;  take  the  (kin  off,  and  all  the  bones  out ;  pound 
the  meat  in  a  mortar  very  fine,  with  mace,  nutmeg, 
pepper,  and  fait,  to  your  tafte ;  raiie  the  pie,  and  put 
flowers  or  leaves  on  the  walls ;  put  in  the  (almon  and 
lid  it  s  let  it  bake  an  hour  and  a  half  When  done* 
take  off  the  lid,  and  put  in  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  rich 
melted  butter ;  cut  a  lemon  in  fliccs,  and  lay  over  it ; 
ftick  in  two  or  three  leaves  of  fennel,,  and  lend  it  to 
uble  without  a  lid. 

A  Sok  Pie.  Make  a  good  cruft,  cover  your  dilh, 
boil  two  pounds  of  eels  tender,  pick  the  flefli  from  the 
bones,  put  the  bones  into  the  liquor  the  eels  were 
boiled  in,  with  a  blade  of  mace  and  fait ;  let  them  boil 
till  there  is  only  a  quarter  of  a  pint  of  liquor,  then  ftrain 
it;  cut  the  flelh  of  the  eel  very  fine,  with  a  little  lemon- 
peel  cut  fmall,  a  litde  fah,  pepper,  and  nutmeg,  a  few 
crumbs  of  grated  bread,  parfley  cut  fine,  and  an  an«- 
chovy.  Mix  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  butter,  and  lay  it 
in  the  difli;  cut  the  meat  from  a  pair  of  large  foles,  and 

uke 


PIES.  223 

-fiskc  off  the  fins,  lay  it  on  the  force-meat,  then  pour  in 
the  liquor  the  eels  were  boiled  in,  and  dole  the  pie« 

Turbot  pie  may  be  made  in  the  fame  manner. 

ji  Sucking-pig  PiE^  Bone  die  pig  thoroughly,  lard 
the  legs  and  ihoulders  with  bacon,  ieaibned  with  ipices, 
and  fweet  herbs  chopped ;  put  it  in  a  raifed  cruft  of  its 
own  length ;  feafon  it  with  fpkres,  fweet  herb$  chopped, 
and  a  pound  of  butter  or  fcraped  bacon ;  cover  it  over 
with  thin  flices  of  bacon :  finifh  the  pie,  and  bake  it 
about  three  hours.  When  near  done,  add  two  glafles  of 
brandy ;  let  it  be  cold  before  ufing. 

A  rich  Feal  Pie.  Cut  veal  fteaks  either  from  a  neck, 
a  breafl,  a  fillet,  or  a  loin  i  feaibn  them  with  pepper, 
fait,  nutmeg,  and  a  very  finall  quantity  of  pounded 
cloves ;  flice  two  iweetbreads,  feafbn  them  in  the  fame 
manner;  lay  pufF-pa(te  round  the  dilh  half  an  inch 
thick;  then  the  meat,  yolks  of  eggs  boiled  hard,  and 
oyfters  at  the  topi  fill  it  with  water,  cover  it.  When 
taken  from  the  oven,  pour  in  at  the  top,  through  a  fun- 
nel, fome  good  boiled  -gravy,  thickened  with  a  litdc 
cream  and  flour,  and  boiled  up. 

A  fweet  Vealy  or  Lamb  Pie.  Cut  your  veal  or  lamb 
mtQ  litde  pieces,  feafbn  it  with  pepper,  fait,  cloves,^ 
mace,  and  nutmeg,  beat  fine.  Make  a  good  puff-paftc 
cruit,  lay  it  in  your  difh,  then  lay  in  your  meat,  and 
fb^w  on  it  ibme  ftoned  raifins  and  currants  clean  wafhed, 
and  fome  iugari  then  lay  on  it  fbme  force-meat  balls 
nude  Iwect,  and  in  the  fummer  fome  artichoke  bottomr 
boiled  I  and  in  die  winter  Icalded  grapes.  Boil  Spanifh 
potatoes  cut  in  pieces,  candied  citron,  candied  orange^ 
kmon-peel,  and  three  our  four  blades  of  mace;  put 
2  butter 


a24  PIE      S. 

butter  on  the  t6p,  clofc  up  your  pic,  and  bake  it  j  have 
ready,  when  it  comes  from  the  ovenj  a  caudle  made  ^s 
fo\\ov/si  Take  a  pint  of  white  wiiie^  and. mix  in  the 
yolks  of  three  eggs ;  ftir  it  well  together  over  the  fire 
one  way  aU  the  timej  till  it  i%  thick;  then  take  it  ofi> 
ftir  in  fugar  enough  to  fweeten  it>  and  fqueeze  in  the 
jiuce  of  a  ionon ;  put  it  hot  into  your  pie,  and  dole  it 
up  again.    Send  yow  pie  hot  to  taUe. 

Afavomy  Fed  Pj£«  Seafon  the  fteaks  of  a  loin  of 
▼eal  with  pepper,  (alt,  beaten  mace,  and  nutmeg ;  put 
the  meat  in  a  diih  with  fweetbreads  feaibned  widi  the 
meat,  and  the  yolks  of  fix  hard  eggs,  a  j^nt  of  oyfters> 
and  half  diat  quantity  of  good  gravy ;  lay  a  puff-pafte^ 
of  half  an  inch  thick,  round  your  diih^  and  cover  it 
with  a  lid  of  the  fame  thickne&  i  bake  it  an  hour  and  a 
quarter  in  a  quick  oven  $  when  done,  cut  off  the  lid^ 
cut  the  Hd  into  eight  or  ten  pieces,  and  ftick  it  round 
the  infide  of  the  rim  j  cover  the  meat  with  /liccs  of 
lemon,  and  ferve  it  up. 

A  Firmicilli  Pi£.  Seaibn  four  pigeons  with  a  little 
pepper  and  fait,  ftuflf  them  with  a  piece  of  butter,  a  few 
Crumbs  of  bread,  and  a  litde  parfiey  cut  foiall  i  butter  a 
deep  earthen  diih  well,  and  then  cover  the  bottom  of  it 
with  two  ounces  of  vermicelli.  Make  a  pufT-pafte^  roll 
it  pretty  thick,  and  lay  it  on  the  di(h ;  then  lay  in  the 
pigeons,  the  breafts  downwards ;  put  a  thick  lid  on  the 
{Me,  and  bake  it  in  a  moderate  oven.  When  it  isk 
enough,  take  a  difli  proper  for  it  to  be  ient  to  table  in^ 
and  turn  the  pie  on  it :  the  vermicelli  i$  thea  on  the  top» 
and  looks  very  pretty. 

PIGS. 


t    "5    3 


PIGS. 

To  roafi  aVio.    Stick  your  your  pig  juft  above  the 
breaft-bone,  running  your  knife  to  the  heart ;  when  it  is 
dead,    put  it  in  cold  water  for  a  few  minutes,   then 
rub  it  over  with  a  little  rofin  beat  exceeding  fine  and  its 
own  blood ;  put  your  pig  into  a  pail  of  fcalding  water 
half  a  minute;  take  it  out,  lay  it  on  a  clean  table,  pull 
off  the  hdlx  as  quick  as  poflible ;  if  it  does  not  come 
clean  off,  put  it  in  again :  when  you  have  got  it  all  clean 
off,  walh  it  in  warm  water,  then  in  two  or  three  cold 
waters,  for  fear  the  rofin  fhould  tafte :  take  off  the  fore 
feet  at  the  firft  joint,  make  a  flit  down  the  belly,  and 
take  out  all  the  entrails;   put  the  liver,   heart,    and 
lights  to  the  pettitoes ;   walh  it  well  out  of  cold  water, 
dry  it  exceedingly  well  with  a  cloth,  hang  it  up,  and 
when  you  roaft  it,  put  in  a  little  fhred  fage,  a  tea- 
Ipoonful  of  black  pepper,  two  of  fait,  and  a  cruft  of 
brown  bread ;  fpit  your  pig,  and  few  it  up ;  lay  it  down 
to  a  brilk  clear  fire,  with  a  pig-plate  hung  in  the  mid- 
dle of  the  fire.     When  your  pig  is  warm,  put  a  lump 
of  butter  in  a  cloth,  and  rub  your  pig  often  with  it  while 
it  is  roafting.     A  large  one  will  take  an  hour  and  a  half. 
When  your  pig  is  a  fine  brown,  and  die  fteam  draws 
near  the  fire,  take  a  clean  cloth,  rub  your  pig  quite  dry, 
then  rub  it  well  with  a  litde  cold  butter,  it  will  help  to 
Criip  it;  then  take  a  fharp  knife,  cut  off  the  head,  and 
tike  off  the  collar ;  then  take  off  the  cars  and  jaw-bone, 
iplit  the  jaw  in  two :  when  you  have  cut  the  pig  down 
the  back,  which  muft  be  done  before  you  draw  the  fpit 
out,  then  lay  your  pig  back  to  back  on  your  diih,  and 
Vol.  IL  Gg  the 


726  P      I      G,     S. 

the  jaw  on  each  fide,  the  ears  on  each  fhoulder^  and 
the  collar  at  the  fhouldjcri  and  pour  in  your  fauce,  and 
ferve  it  up.  Garnifh  widi  ^  cruft  of  brown  bread 
grated. 

Another  way.  The  pig  being  prepared,  as  above, 
Ipit  it,  and  lay  it  to  the  fire,  which  muft  be  a  very  good 
one  at  each  end,  or  hang  a  flat  iron  in  the  middle  of 
the  grate.  Before  you  lay  it  down  to  the  fire,  ftired  a 
little  fage  very  fmall,  take  a  piece  of  butter  as  big  as  a 
walnut,  and  a  little  fait  and  pepper,  put  this  into  the 
pig,  and  few  it  up  ftrongly ;  then  flour  it  all  over,  and 
continue  to  do  fo  till  the  eyes  drop  out,  or  the  cratk- 
ling  will  be  hard.  Take  care  to  fave  all  the  gravy  that 
comes  fi-om  it,  and  for  this  purpofe  put  a  large  bafon  or 
pan  in  the  dripping-pan,  as  foon  as  the  gravy  begins  to 
run.  When  the  pig  is  enough,  ftir  up'  the  fire  briflcly, 
take  a  coarfe  cloth,  with  about  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of 
butter  in  it,  and  rub  the  pig  all  over  till  the  crackling 
is  quite  crifp,  wheri  it  muft  be  taken  up.  Lay  it  in  the 
djlh,  and  cut  off  the  head  with  a  fharp  knife,  and,  be- 
fore you  draw  out  the  fpit,  cut  the  pig  in  two :  cut  off 
the  ears,  and  lay  one  at  each  end}  divide  the  under 
jaw,  and  difpofe  of  them  in  the  fame  manner:  put  the 
gravy  you  faved  into  fome  melted  butter,  and  boil 
them  J  pour  it  into  the  difh,  with  the  brains  bruifcd 
fine,  and  the  fage,  mixed  all  together,  and  ferve  it  up. 

Another  way.  Chop  fome  fage  and  onion  very  fine, 
a  few  crumbs  of  bre^d,  a  little  butter,  pepper,  and  fait, 
rolled  up  together ;  put  it  into  the  belly,  and  few  it  uj>, 
before  you  lay  down  the  pig  j  rub  it  al/  over  with  fwee^ 
oil.    When  it  is  done,  take  a  dry  cloth  and  wipe  it  i 

then 


P      1      G      Sj  aij 

r 

llien  tak<i  it  into  a  diih^  cut  it  up^  and  fend  it  to' tabic 
with  the  fame  fauce  as  above.  ' 

Another  way.  Stick  the  pig  in  the  throaty  as  deep  as 
the  hearty  that  it  may  bleed  well^  and  die  the  fooner^  as 
it  makes  it  eafier  to  fcald.  When  the  water  is  pretty 
Warm  put  the  pig  in  it>  holding  it  by  the  hind  legs  $ 
when  you  find  the  briftles  come  off  the  tail  by  rubbings 
take  it  out>  and  rub  it  with  a  little  rofhi)  then  haf d  with 
the  hand.  When  it  is  well  fcald^>  walh  it  clean9  and 
cut  it  open  while  warm ;  take  all  out  except  the  kidneys^ 
truis  it  with  three  flccwersi  one  in  the  hind  leg,  pne  in 
the  fore,  and  one  in  the  middle :  put  into  it  a  faggot  of 
parilcy^  fhallots,  thyme,  laurel,  with  pepper  and  fait, 
and  wipe  it  very  dry  before  Ipitting ;  cut  the  fkin  a  lit- 
tle near  the  neck,  and  alfo  near  the  rump,  to  hinder  it 
from  breaking  in  roafting.  When  it  begins  to  be  warm, 
rub  it  all  over  pretty  often  with  oil,  which  will  make 
the  fkin  very  crifp.  Take  out  the  faggot  when  you 
ferve  it  up. 

To  roajl  the  Hind-quarter  of  a  Fig  Lamb^fajhion.  At 
the  time  of  the  year  when  houfe-lamb  is  very  dear,  take 
the  hind-quarter  of  a  large  roafling  pig,  take  off  the 
fkin,  and  roaft  it,  and  it  will  eat  like  lamb,  widi  mint 
fauce,  or  with  a  fallad  or  Seville  orange.  Half  an  hour 
ijvill  roaft  it. 

To  make  fauce  for  a  Pro.  .  Chop  the  brains  a  little, 
then  put  in  a  tea*-cupful  of  white  gravy  with  the  gravy 
that  runs  out  of  the  pig^  and  a  little  bit  of  anchovy  j 
inix  near  half  a  pound  oi  butter  with  as  much  flour  as 
Will  thicken  the  gravy^  a  flice  ^f  lemon>  a  fpoonful  of 
li^hite  wine,  a  little  caper  liquor  and  fait  i  fhake  it  over 
the  fire^  and  pour  it  into  your  difh*     Some  like  cur- 

G  g  2  rants  J 


aaS  PIG     'S. 

m 

rants ;  boil  a  few^  andfend  them  in  a  tea^f^ucer^  with 
a  glafs  of  currant  jelly  in  the  middle  of  it. 

Different  forts  of  Sauce  for  aPio,  Nothing  fhews  the 
variety  of  taftes  more  than  the  feveral  ways  of  making 
fauce  for  a  pig  -,  fome  do  not  love  any  iage  in  the  pig^  only 
a  cruft  of  bread ;  but  then  you  fhould  have  a  little  dried 
Iage  rubbed  and  mixed  with  the  gravy  and  butter.  Some 
love  bread  fauce  in  a  baibn^  made  thus : — ^Take  a  pint 
of  water,  put  in  a  good  piece  of  crumb  of  breads  a  Uade 
of  mace^  and  a  litde  whole  pepper  i  boil  it  for  about 
five  or  Gk  minutes^  and  then  pour  the  water  off:  take 
out  the  fpice,  and  beat  up  the  bread  with  a  good  piece 
of  butter,  and  a  little  milk  or  cream :  fome  love  a  few 
currants  boiled  in  it,  a  glafs  of  wine,  and  a  litde  fugar ; 
but  that  you  muit  do  juft  as  you  like  it.  Others  take ' 
half  a  pint  of  good  beef  gravy,  and  the  gravy  which 
comes  out  of  the  pig,  with  a  piece  of  butter  rolled  in 
flour,  two  fpoonfuls  of  catchup,  and  boil  them  all  toge- 
ther 5  then  take  the  brains  of  the  pig  and  bruifc  them 
fine  i  put  all  thefe  together,  with  the  fage  in  the  pig, 
aid  pour  into  your  difh :  it  is  a  very  good  fauce.  When, 
you  have  not  gravy  enough  comes  out  of  your  pig,  with 
the  butter,  for  fauce,  take  about  half  a  pint  of  veal 
gravy  and  add  to  it ;  or  flew  the  pettitoes,  and  take  as 
much  of  that  liquor  as  will  do  for  fauce,  mixed  with  the 
other.    Some  like  the  fauce  fent  in  a  boat  or  baibn. 

A  Sham  Pig.  Boil  and  peel  as  many  potatoes  as  will 
be  the  bulk  of  a  litde  pig,  which  you  muft  take  while 
they  are  hot,  and  beat  a  quarter  of  a  poundof  butter  in 
them,  break  fix  eggs  (leaving  out  the  whites  of  four) 
very  well,  and  mix  with  the  potatoes  -,  add  to  them 
fugar,  nutmeg,  and  fait,  to  your  tafle :  let  them  Hand 

to 


PIGS.  42J 

to  cool,  and  then  make  it  up  in  the  form  of  a  roaft^ 

pig ;  make  a  ikin  to  cover  it  of  pafte  as  for  a  (landing 

pie  i  let  it  have  head,  ears,  and  mouth,  in  the  form  of 

a  roafted  pig;   let  it  be  iet  in  an  oven  and   baked 

brown:  then  take  a  little  clarified  butter,  and  a  few 

clean  feathers,  dip  their  ends  in  the  butter,  and  whifk 

all  the  pig  with  it,  juft  as  it  is  taken  out  of  the  oven  i 

this  will  make  the  pafte  fhine  as  a  natural  pig's  ikin. 

For  fauce,  have  melted  butter,  fugar,  and  red  wine  i 

then  ferve  it  up. 

To  barbecue  a  Pio.    Drcfs  a  pig  of  nine  or  ten  weeks 

old  as  if  it  were  to  be  roafted ;  make  a  force-meat  of 

two  anchovies,  fix  lage  leaves,  and  the  liver  of  the  pig, 

all  chopped  very  fmall  s  then  put  them  into  a  marble 

mortar,  with  the  crumb  of  half  a  penny  loafi  four  ounces 

of  butter,  half  a  tea-fpoonful  of  kyan  pepper,  and  half 

a  pint  of  red  wine ;  beat  them  all  together  to  a  pafte, 

put  it  in  your  pig's  belly,  and  few  it  up ;  lay  your  pig 

down  at  a  good  diftance  before  a  large  brifk  fire,  finge 

it  well,  put  in  your  dripping-pan  three  bottles  of  red 

wine,  ,bafte  it  with  the  wine  all  the  time  it  is  roafting: 

when  it  is  half  roafted,  put  under  your  pig  two  penny 

loaves ;  if  you  have  not  wine  enough,  put  in  more* 

When  your  pig  is  near  enough,  take  the  loaves  and  lauce 

out  of  your  dripping-pan,  put  to  the  fauce  one.  anchovy 

chopped  fmall,  a  bundle  of  fweet  herbs,  and  half  a 

lemon ;  boil  it  a  few  minutes,  then  draw  your  pig,  put 

a  fmall  lemon  or  apple  in  the  pig's  mouth,  and  a  leaf 

on  each  fide ;  ftrain  your  fauce,  and  pour  it  on  them 

.boiling  hot ;  lay  barberries  and  flices  of  lemon  round  it, 

and  fend  it  up  whole  to  table :  it  is  a  grand  bottom  diih. 

It  will  uke  four  hours  roafting. 

2  Some 


n 


25tf  V      I      G      S. 

Some  vafiatiorts  rhay  be  made  from  theabovereclpei' 
either  as  the  judgement  of  the  cook,  or  die  tafte  of  her 
employer  may  determinei  Madeira  is  fbmetimes  chofen 
in  preference  to  red  wine.  A  pig  of  fix  or  feven  mofidis 
old  may  be  barbecued  as  above,  and  ftuck  over  with 
blanched  almonds;  but  is  generally  bailed  with 
Madeira. 

To  drefs  a  Pig  au  Pert  DuiUet.  Cut  off  the  head,  and 
divide  it  into  quarters ;  lard  them  with  bacon,  feafon 
them  with  mace,  cloves,  pepper,  nutmeg,  and  fait: 
lay  a  layer  of  fat  bacon  at  the  bottom  of  a  kettle,  lay 
the  head  in  the  middle,  and  the  quarters  round  j  therf 
put  in  a  bay-leaf,  an  onion  fliced,  lemon,  carrots,  par- 
fiiips,  parfley,  and  chives ;  cover  it  again  with  bacon, 
put  in  a  quart  of  broth,  ftew  it  over  the  fire  for  an  hour, 
and  then  take  it  up.  Put  your  pig  into  a  ftewpan  or 
kettle,  pour  in  a  bottle  of  white  wine,  cover  it  dole, 
and  let  it  ftew, for  an  hour  very  fofdy.  If  you  would 
lerve  it  cold,  let  it  fl:and  till  it  is  cold,  then  drain  it 
well,  and  wipe  it  that  it  may  look  white,  and  lay  it  in 
a  difli  with  the  head  in  the  middle  and  the  quarters 
round,  then  throw  fome  green  parfley  all  over :  or  any 
one  of  the  quarters  is  a  pretty  little  difti,  laid  on  water 
creflles.  If  you  would  have  it  hot,  whilft  your  pig  is 
ftewing  in  the  wine,  take  the  firft  gravy  it  was  ftewed 
in,  and  flrrain  it,  flcim  off  all  the  fat,  then  take  a  fwcct- 
bread  cut  into  five  or  fix  flices,  fome  truffles,  morels, 
and  muflirooms  j  ftew  all  together  till  they  are  enough> 
thicken  it  with  the  yolks  of  two  eggs,  or  a  piece  of 
butter  rolled  in  flour ;  and  when  your  pig  is  enough^ 
take  it  out  and  lay  it  in  your  difli  i  put  the  wine  it  was 

ftewed 


PIGS. 


231 


ftcwed  in  into  the  ragob^  then  pour  all  over  the  pig,  and 
garnifh  with  lemon. 

A  Pig  Mateht.  Gut  and  fcald  your  pig,  cut  off  the 
head  and  pettitoes,  then  cut  your  pig  in  four  quarters, 
put  them,  with  the  head  and  toes,  into  c6ld  water; 
cover  the  bottom  of  a  ftewpan  with  dices  of  bacon,  and 
place  over  them  the  faid  q'jarters,  with  the  pettitoes  an4 
the  head  cut  in  two  :  feafon  the  whole  with  pepper,  fait, 
thyme,  bay-leaf,  an  onion,  and  a  botde  of  white  wine; 
lay  over  more  dices  of  bacon,  put  over  it  a  quart  of 
witter,  and  let  it  boil.  Take  two  large  eels,  flcin  and 
gut  them,  and  cut  them  about  five  or  fix  inches  long. 
When  your  pig  is  half  done,  put  in  your  eels,  then  boil 
z  dozen  of  large  craw-fifli,  cut  off  the  claws,  and  take 
off  the  dwells  of  the  tails ;  and  when  the  pig  and  eels  aVe 
enough,  lay  firft  your  pig  and  the  pettitoes  round  it, 
but  do  not  put  in  the  head  (it  will  be  a  pretty  didi  cold), 
then  lay  your  eels  and  craw-fidi  over  them,  and  take 
the  liquor  they  were  Hewed  in,  dcim  off  ^11  thie  fat,  then 
add  to  it  half  a  pint  of  ftrong  gravy,  thickened  widi  a 
litde  piece  of  butter  rolled  in  flour,  and  a  ipoonful  of 
l^rowning,  and  pour  over  it ;  then  garnidi  with  craw-* 
fifla  and  lemon.  .  This  will  do  for  a  firfl:  courfe,  or  re- 
move. Fry  the  brains  and  lay  round,  and  all  over  the 
didi. 

Collared  Pic.  When  the  pig  is  fcalded,  &c.  cut  off 
the  head  and  feet,  and  bone  it  without  cutting  the  dcin; 
cut  fome  of  the  flcdi  to  chop  with  beef  fuet,  pepper 
^d  fait,  four  or  five  yolks  of  eggs,  chopped  pardey, 
muflirooms,  ham  and  bacon,  truffles,  piftachio  nuts,  a 
few  fweet  almonds,  and  hard  yolks  of  eggs,  bread 
^f|imbs  foaked  in  cream  3  lay  a  layer  of  this  force-meat 

upon 


232  PIGS. 

upon  the  pig,  then  thin  fliccs  of  ham  and  ffices  of  pig's 
fleih>  and  fo  on  till  all  is  ufed  i  roll  it  up  in  the  (kin^ 
and  de  it  Very  tight  in  a  cloth  or  roller,  with  or  without 
dices  of  lard  round  it ;  boil  it  in  broth,  with  a  pint  of 
white  wine,  a  faggot  of  fweet  herbs,  three  cloves^  and 
three  bay  leaves ;  boil  it  about  an  hour  and  ^  half  on  a 
flow  fire :  when  done,  let  it  cool  in  the  breeze.  Serve 
cold,  whole  or  fliced. 

N.  B.  In  this,  as  in  moft  other  recipes,  fome  of  the 
above  articles  are  hard  to  be  got  at  all  times,  and  fome* 
times  difliked  by  the  eaters.  To  obviate  which,  it  is 
left  to  thie  judgement  of  the  cook  to  add  or  diminiflx  2Si 
he  or  ihe  fhall  fee  neceilary. 

Another  way.  Kill  a  fine  young  roafling  pig,  drels 
off*  the  hair  and  draw  it,  and  wafh  it  clean ;  rip  it  open 
from  one  end  to  the  odier,  and  take  out  all  the  bones  ; 
rub  it  all  over  with  pepper  and  fait,  a  little  cloves  and 
mace  beaten  fine,  fix  fage  leaves  and  fweet  herbs  chop- 
ped finall ;  roll  up  your  pig  tight,  and  bind  it  with  a 
fillet  \  fill  the  pot  you  intend  to  boil  it  in  widi  foft  water, 
a  bunch  of  fweet  herbs,  fbme  pepper-corns,  fome  cloves 
and  mace,  a  handful  of  fait,  and  a  pin(  of  vinegar; 
when  the  liquor  boils  put  in  your  pig ;  boil  it  till  it  is 
tender  \  take  it  up,  and  when  it  is  almoft  cold,  bind  it 
over  again,  put  it  into  an  earthen  paii,  and  pour  the 
liquor  your  pig  was  boiled  in  over  it,  and  always  keep 
it  covered.  When  you  want  it,  take  it  out  of  the  pan, 
untie  the  fillet  as  far  as  you  want  to  cut  it,  then  cut 
it  in  flfces,  and  lay  it  in  your  difh.  Garnifh  \^th 
parfley. 


fo 


PIGS.  ajj 

*  fo  hake  u  Pig,  When  necelEfcy  obliges  you  to  bake 
a  pig,  lay  it  in  a  diih,  Hour  it  well  all  over>  and  rub 
it  alfo  over  with  butter.  Butter  the  difh  in  Which  you 
intend  to  bake  it>  and  put  it  in  the  oven.  Take  it  out  as 
loon  as  it  is  enough,  and  having  rubbed  it  over  with  a 
butter  cloth^  put  it  into  the  overt  again  till  it  is  dry ; 
then  take  it  out,  lay  it  in  a  difh,  and  cut  it  up.  Take 
off  the  fat  frond  the  difh  it  was  baked  in,  and  fome 
good-  gravy  will  remain  at  the  bottom.  Add  to  this  a 
little  veal  gravy,  with  a  piece  of  butter  rolled  in  flour, 
and  boil  it  up ;  put  it  into  the  difh,  widi  the  brains  and 
iage  in  the  belly. 

A  Pig  in  jfelfy.  Trufs  a  pig  as  for  roafting ;  much 
of  its  length,  take  a  fmall  knuckle  of  veal,  three  or 
four  calves*  feet,  according  to  riieir  bignefs,  a  little  ham^ 
a  large  faggot  of  parfley,  fliallots^  a  iprig  of  thyme^ 
two  bay-icavcs,  two  cloves  of  garlic,  fix  cloves,  a  bit 
of  nutmeg,  whole  pepper,  and  a  little  fait  j  cover  it 
^ver  or  not  widi  flices  of  bacon ;  put  to  it  a  bottle  of 
white  wine,  and  twice  as  much  broth  -,  let  it  ftew  about 
an  hour,  flowly  or  it  will  be  apt  t6  crack.  When 
done,  take  the  pig  out  gendy,  wipe  it  clean,  and  put 
ali  the  red:  in  another  pan  to  fimmer  for  fbme  time ; 
then  clean  the  pan  the  pig  was  in,  and  garnifli  the 
bottom  with  green  parfley,  "boiled  craw-fifh  or  prawns, 
in  a  pretty  form  ^  lay  the  pig  upon  this,  with  the  back 
uppcitnoft ;  then  fift  and  fkim  the  broth  very  well,  and 
.add  the  juice  of  four  lemons,  the  whites  of  eight  eggs 
-be^t  up  with  the  fheUs,  and  boil  till  it  is  quite  clear  s 
ftrain  it  through  a  jelly-^bag,  and  pour  it  upon  the  pig  ; 
it  fhould  be  quite  covered  with  the  jelly  j  let  it  cool. 
'NoL.  II.  H  h  When 


aj4  PIGS* 

When  ready  to  ule,  dip  the  pan  in  warm  water,  and 
turn  it  over  upon  a  napkin. 

Another  way.  Take  a  pig  and  cut  it  into  quarters  5 
put  it  into  a  ftcwpan,  with  a  pint  of  Rhenifh  or  Liibod 
wine,  a  quart  of  water,  a  little  lemon -peel,  the  juice  of 
three  or  four  lemons^  two  or  three  cloves  5  (lew  it  over 
a  very  flow  fire  for  two  hours,  take  it  up,  lay  the  pig  in 
the  difli  it  is  intended  for ;  ftrain  the  liquor,  and  when 
it  is  cold,  (kim  ofF  the  fat  j  leave  the  fettling  at  the  bot- 
tom }  warm  the  jelly  again,  and  pour  over  the  pig  j  fcrvc 
it  up  cold  in  the  jelly. 

Another  way.  Cut  it  into  quarters,  and  lay  it  into 
your  ftcwpan  i  put  in  one  calPs  foot,  and  the  pigs  feer, 
a  pint  of  Rhenifli  wine,  the  juice  of  four  lemons,  and 
pne  quart  of  water,  three  or  four  blades  of  mace,  two  or 
three  cloves,  fome  lalt,  and  a  very  little  piece  of  lemon- 
peel  i  ftove  it,  or  do  it  over  a  flow  fire  two  hours ; 
then  take  it  up,  lay  the  pig  into  the  difh  you  intended 
fpr  it,  then  ftrdn  the  liquor,  and  when  the  jelly  is  eold^ 
ikim  off  the  fat,  and  leave  the  fettling  at  the  bottom. 
Beat  up  the  whites  of  fix  eggs,  and  boil  up  with  the  jel- 
ly about  ten  minutes,  and  put  it  through  a  bag  nil  it  is 
clear ;  then  pour  the  jelly  over  the  pig,  and  fcrvc  it  up 
cold  in  the  jelly. 

To  drefs  a  Pio  like  a  fat  Lamb.  Take  a  fat  pig, 
cut  off  its  head,  trufs  it  up  like  a  lamb.  When  it  is 
flit  through  the  middle  and  flcinned,  parboil  it  a  little, 
then  throw  fome  parfley  over  it,  roaft  it  and  dredge  it. 
Let  your  fauce  be  half  a  pound  of  butter,  and  a  pint 
of  cream,  ftirring  it  all  together  till  it  is  fnnootji;  then 
pour  it  over,  and  fend  it  to  table. 

Pxa 


PIGS.  23^ 

t 

Pig  fVhite  Monk* s  fajhion.  Bone  the  pig  thoroughly* 
except  the  head  and  feet  ^  take  care  not  to  cut  the  fkin ; 
make  a  force-meat  with  fillet  of  ve^,  beef-fuet,  chopped 
parfley,  fhallots,  mufhrooms^  pepper  and  falt^  crumbs 
of  bread  foaked"  in  cream,  and  the  yolks  of  fix  raw 
eggs  5  cut  dice  of  ham  and  bacon  to  mix  with  the 
force-meat  5  ftufF  the  pig  with  this  as  if  it  was  whole, 
tie  it  well  in  a  napkin,  and  cover  or  not  the  back  with 
thin  flices  of  bacon ;  boil  it  in  broth  and  a  pint  of  white 
wine,  with  a  faggot  of  parfley,  fliallots,  a  clove  of  gar- 
lic, fliced  onions,  carrots*  and  other  roots,  whole  pep- 
per, and  fait.  When  done,  if  to  be  fcrved  hot,  wipe  it 
clean,  and  ferve  widi  what  fauce  you  pleaie.  If  for 
cold,  let  it  cool  in  the  braze,  then  take  ofi^  the  nap- 
kin, fcrape  the  fat  gently  ofi^,  and  ferve  upon  a  napkin. 
Garnifh  with  green  parfley, 

3o  drefs  a  Pio  the  French  way.  Spit  your  pig,  lay 
it  down  to  the  fire,  let  it  roaft  till  it  i^  thoroughly 
warm,  then  cut  it  off  the  fpit,  and  divide  it  into 
twenty  pieces. .  Set  them  to  flew  in  half  a  pint  of  white 
wine  and  a  pint  of  ftrong  broth,  fcafoned  with  grated 
nutmeg,  pepper,  two  onions  cut  fmall,  and  fome  flrip* 
ped  thyme.  Let  it  ftew  an  hour,  then  put  to  it  half  a 
pint  of  ftrong  gravy,  a  piece  of  butter  rolled  in  flour, 
fome  anchovies,  and  a  fpoonful  of  vinegar,  or  mufli-< 
room  pickle.  When  it  is  enough,  lay  it  in  your  difli, 
and  pour  the  gravy  over  it^  th^n  garnifli  Ayith  orange 
and  lemon. 

To  drefs  Pig's  Pettitoes.  Put  your  pettitoes  into  a 
fauccpan  with  half  a  pint  of  water,  a  blade  of  mace,  a 
little  whole  pepper,  a  bundle  of  fweet  herbs,  ai\d  an 
(^nion.    Let  them  boil  five  minutes,  th^n  take  out  the 

Hh2  liver,, 


136  PIGS. 

liver,  lights,  and  heart,  mirvce  them  vcrjr  fine,  ^ate  a 
little  nutmeg  ova-  them,  and  ihake  a  little  flour  oi^ 
them ;  let  the  feet  do  till  they  are  tender,  then  take 
them  out  and  ftntin  the  liquor,  put  all  together  with  a 
little  fait,  and  a  piece  of  butter  as  big  as  a  walnut  j 
ihake  the  faucepan  c^en,  let  it  fimmer  five  or  fix 
minutes,  then  cut  fome  toafted  fippets  and  lay  round 
the  diih ;  lay  the  mince-meat  and  fauce  m  the  middle^ 
and  the  pettitoes  fplit  round  it.  You  may  add  the 
juice  of  half  a  lemon,  or  a  very  little  vinegar. 

Jnotbtr  way.  Boil  the  heart,  liver,  and  lights,  a  few 
minutes,  (let  the^  feet  do  till  tender)  ;  fhred  them,  take 
a  little  of  the  liquor  they  were  boiled  in,  fome  pepper, 
iait,  and  nutmeg,  a  little  grated  lemon-peel ;  ftir  in  the 
mince  with  a  bit  of  butter  and  flour,  and  give  it  a  boil 
up.  Serve  it  with  the  feet  fplit,  laid  on  the  top,  and 
toaded  fippets. 

A  Ragoo  vf  Pi  as'  Feet  and  Ears.  Having  boiled  the 
feet  and  earsy  (plit  the  feet  *d6wn  the  middle,  and  cut 
the  ears  in  narrow  flices.  Dip  them  in  butter  and  fry 
them  brown.  Put  a  little  beef-gravy  in  a  tofling-pan^ 
with  a  tea-fpoonfiil  of  lemon-pickle,  a  large  one  of 
mufhroom  catchup,  the  fame  of  browning,  and  a  little 
fait.  Thicken  it  with  a  lump  of  butter  rolled  in  flour, 
and  put  in  your  feet  and  cars.  Let  them  boil  gently, 
and  when  they  are  enough,  lay  your  feet  in  the  middle 
of  the  dilh,  and  the  ears  round  them ;  then  ftrain  your 
gravy,  pour  it  over  them,  and  garnifli  with  curled 
parfley. 

Another  %vay.  Take  them  out  of  the  fauce,  (plit 
riiem,  dip  them  in  egg,  then  in  bread  crumbs  and 
^hopped  par  (ley;  fry  them  in  hogs'  lard,  drain  (hems 

cut 


PIGEONS,  237 

((Tut  the  ^ars  in  long  narrow  flips>  flour  them,  put  thenx 
into.  Tome  good  gravy  i  add  catchup,  morels,  and 
pickled  muihrooms ;  flew  them,  pour  them  into  the 
difh,  and  lay  on  the  feet. 

Or  they  are  very  good  dipped  in  butter  and  fried ; 
eat  with  melted  butter  and  muftard* 


P    I    G    E    O    N    S, 

To  roajl  Pigeons.  Make  a  force-meat  with  the 
livers",  mufhrooms,  parlley,  Ihallots,  fcraped  lard,  two 
yolks  of  eggs,  pepper  and  fait ;  ftufF  the  pigeons  with 
it,  and  roaft  them  with  a  flice  of  lard  wrapped  in  paper, 
or  without.  You  may  alfo  braze  them,  and  ferve  them 
with  what  fauqe  you  pleafe. 

Another  way.  Trufs  two  or  three  large  tame  pigeons 
as  for  roafting ;  rnake  a  Huffing  with  the  livers,  chop- 
ped with  parfley,  chibol,  a  trifle  of  garlic,  fcraped 
lard,  pepper  and  fait,  and  mix  it  well  with  two  yolks  of^ 
eggs^  lard  the  pigeons  with  fprigs  of  green  parfley 
pretty  thick,  and,  while  roafling,  bafte  them  often  with 
with  frefh  hogs'  lard,  to  keep  the  parfley  green  and  crifp, 

Ti.^wV  Pigeons.  Scald  and  draw  your  pigeons,  and 
take  out  the  craw  as  clean  as  pofTible.  Wafh  them  in 
feveral  water3,  and,  having  cut  off  the  pinions,  turn 
their  legs  und?r  their  wings,  dredge  them,  and  put 
them  into  foft  cold  water.  Having  boiled  them  very 
flowly  a  quarter  of  an  hour,  difh  them  up,  and  pour 
over  them  good  melted  butter.  Lay  round  them  a 
little  broccoli,  and  fcrye  them  up  with  butter  and 
parfley. 

Pigeons 


ijS  P    I    G    E    O    N    $• 

Pigeons  will  not  take  more  than  a  quarter  of  an  hour 
boiling. .  They  Ihould  be  boiled  by  themfelvesj  and 
may  be  eaten  with  bacon>  greens,  ipinach^  aiparagus,  or 
parflcy  and  butten 

Another  way.  Boil  your  pigeons  by  thcmfclvcsj  for 
fifteen  minutes ;  then  boil  a  handlbme  iquare  piece  of 
bacon^  and  lay  in  the  middle ;  ftew  fome  fpinach  to  lay 
round,  and  lay  the  pigeons  on  the  fpinach.  Gamiih 
your  di{h  with  parQey  laid  in  a  plate  before  the  fire  to 
criip.  Or  you  may  lay  one  pigeon  in  the  middle,  and 
the  reft  round,  and  the  Ipinach  between  each  pigeonj^ 
and  a  dice  of  bacon  on  each  pigeon.  Garnifh  with  fli- 
Ces  qI[  bacon,  and  melted  butter  in  a  cup. 

Another  way.  Peel  as  many  whole  truffles  as  you  have 
pigeons,  and  put  them  into  a  ftewpan  with  a  glais  of 
white  wine,  a  flice  of  ham,  broth,  a  faggot,  and  two 
cloves,  and  (immer  them  fome  time.  Trufs  four  or 
five  fmall  pjgeoqs,  the  legs  inwards ;  take  a  litde  broth 
and  flour,  with  a  few  flices  of  lard  and  lemon,  pepper 
and  falts  make  this  t^i|  and  ilir  it  condnually,  then  boil 
the  pigeons  Howly  therein.  The  truffles  being  donc^i 
take  out  the.  faggot  and  ham,  put  the  pigeoi\s  ^  them, 
and  finuner  them  fome  time  together.  Make  a  litdd 
forced-meat  with  the  livers  of  poultry,  chopped  mufh- 
rooms,  truffles,  parfley,  and  (ballots,  mixed  with  a  litde 
fcraped  lard,  two  yolks  of  eggs,  pepper  and  (alt.  Put 
this  into  the  bottom  of  your  difh,  and  place  it  on 
hot  afhes,  to  make  it  catch  at  bottom.  Drain  the  fat 
off,  and  ferve  the  pigeon  upon  it^  intermixed  with 
truffle$. 

Pigeons  in  a  hole.    Pick,  draw,  and  walh  four  young 
pigeoi\s,  ftick  their  legs  in  their  bel^es  a&you  do  hoWtd 

pigeons^ 


PIGEONS. 


2J9 


p^eons^  feafbn  them  with  pepper^  fait,  and  beaten  mace. 

Put  into  the  belly  of  every  pigeon  a  lump  of  butter  the 

fize  of  a  walnut.    Lay  your  pigeons  in  a  pie  di(h,  pour 

.  ovef  them  a  batter  made  of  three  eggs,  two  fpoonflijsr 

of  flour,  and  half  a  pint  of  good  milk.     Bake  it  in  a 

moderate  oven,  and  ferve  them  to  table  in  the  fame  difh. 

Pigeons  hailed  with  Rice.     StuflT  the  bellies  of  fix 

pigeons  with  parfley,  pepper,  and  fait,  rolled  in  a  very 

little  piece  of  butter ;  put  them  into  a  quart  of  mutton 

broth,  with  a  little  beaten  mace,,  a  bundle  of  fweet  herbs, 

and  an  onion;  cover  them  clofe,  and  let  them  boil  a 

full  quarter  of  an  hour ;  then  take  out  the  onion  and 

fweet  herbs,  and  take  a  good  piece  of  butter  rolled  in 

flour,  put  it  in,   and  fhake  it ;  feaibn  it  with  ialt,  if 

it  wants  it ;  then  have  ready  half  a  pound  of  rice  boiled 

tender  in  milk.     When  it  begins  to  be  thick  (but  take 

great  care  it  does  not  burn)  take  the  yolks  of  two  or 

three  eggs,  beat  up  with  two  or  three  ipoonfuls  of 

cream,  and  a  litde  nutmeg.    Sdr  it  together  dll  it  is 

quite  thick  s  then  take  up  the  pigeons  and  lay  them  in 

a  diih.     Pour  the  gravy  to  the  rice,  ftir  it  all  together, 

and  pour  over  the  pigeons.    Garnifli  with  hard  eggs  cut 

into  quarters. 

Another  way.  Pick  arid  draw  your  pigeons,  and  turn 
the  legs  under  their  wings.  Cut  off  the  pinions,  by 
over  each  pinion  thin  dices  of  bacon,  and  a  large  beet 
leaf.  Wrap  diem  feparately  in  clean  cloths,  and  boil 
them  till  enough.  Have  ready  four  ounces  of  rice  boil* 
ed  foft,  and  put  into  a  fieve  to  drain.  Put  thq  rice,  into 
a  litde  good  veal  gravy  thickened  with  flour  and  butter. 
Boil  your  rice  a  little  in  the  gravy,  and  add  two  4>oon- 
fuls  of  good  cream.    Take  your  pigeons  out  of  the 

cloths. 


^p  tIGEONS. 

cloths^  and  leave  on  the  bacon  and  beet  leaves.  FouiT 
the  rice  over  them^  and  ferve  them  up. 

9a  hroil  Pigeons.  When  you  fet  about  to  broil  pi- 
geons, take  care  your  fire  is  clear.  Take  fome  pariky^ 
fhred  fine  ^  a  piece  of  butter  as  big  as  a  walnut,  widi 
a  litde  pepper  and  fait,  and  put  into  their  bellies.  Tic 
them  at  both  ends,  and  put  them  on  the  gridiron.  Or 
you  may  fplit  and  broil  them,  having  firft  ieafbned 
them  with  pepper  and  fait.  Serve  them  with  a  little 
parfley  and  butter  in  the  difh. 

jinotber  way.  Tnife  and  ftufF  your  pigeons  in  the 
laoie  manner  as  for  roafting.  Let  the  fire  be  very  dear, 
and  the  gridiron  high  from  the  fire.  Take  care  they  do 
not  burn.  For  lauce— parfley  and  butter^  They  may 
be  fplit  and  broiled,  and  confequently  fooner  done,  but 
they  are  in  general  reckoned  beft  broiled  whole. 

Jugged  Yiozons.  Pluck  and  draw  fix  pigeons,  walh 
them  clean,  and  dry  them  with  a  cloth  3  icoSon  them 
with  beaten  nuce,  white  pepper,  and  (alt.  Put  them  in 
a  jug,  and  put  half  a  pound  of  butter  upon  them.  Stop 
up  your  jug  clofe  with  a  cloth,  that  no  fteam  can  get 
out,  fet  it  in  a  kettle  of  boiling  water,  and  let  it  boil  one 
hour  tod  a  half.  Then  take  out  your  pigeons,  and  put 
die  gravy  that  is  ^ome  from  the  pigeons  into  a  pan,  and 
piit  to  it  one  fpoonfiil  of  wine,  one  of  catchup,  a  llice  of 
lemon,  half  an  anchovy  chopped  fmall,  and  a  bundle  of 
Iweet  herbs.  Boil  it  a  little,  thicken  it  with  a  little  but- 
ter rolled  in  flour,  lay  your  pigeons  on  the  dilh,  and 
ftrain  the-  gravy  on  them.  Garnilh  with  parfley  and  red 
cabbage,  and  ferve  them  up.  You  may  lay  mufhrooms 
or  force-meat  balls.  It  is  a  pretty  fide  or  corner  difii. 
.  '  I  BoiUi 


PIGEONS.  a4i 

Soiled  PiOBONS  and  Sac<m.  Take  fix  young  pigeons^ 
waih  them  clean^  turn  their  legs  under  their  wings>  boil 
them  in  milk  and  water  by  themfelves  twenty  minutes ; 
have  ready  boiled  a  Iquare  piece  of  bacon^  .take  off  the 
ikin  and  brown  it^  put  the  bacon  in  the  middle  of  your 
diih>  and  lay  tibe  pigeons  round  it>  and  lumps  of  ftewed 
^inach ;  pour  pl^  melted  butter  over  them^  and  fend 
pariley  and  butter  in  a  boa(. 

PiQBONs  au  Gratifii  When  your  pigeons  are  picked^ 
drawn,  and  Wialhed,  flit  them  down  the  back,  and  then 
{tuff  them ;  making  a  ftufBng  as  follows  :-rCut  the  livers 
very  fmall,  young  onions^  mufhrooms,  pariley^  truffles^ 
morels,  and  fwseet  herbs,  all  cut  fmall,  fome  bacon  fcra- 
ped  fine,  with  ibme  pepper,  fait,  and  nutmeg.  When 
^ey  are  ftufied,  lay  in  a  difh  fome  flices  of  veal  and 
ham,  and  the  pigeons  upon  them,  then  more  flicea  of 
ham  and  veal  upon  the  pigeons,  but  no  more  ieafbning ; 
cover  them  with  janother  dilh,  much  fmaller  than  diat 
they  are  put  in  j  take  a  wet  napkin  and  put  round  the 
rim  of  the  di£h,  to  prevent  the  fteam  evaporating ;  put 
it  into  a  ftewpan  over  a  fmall  ftovc,  and  let  it  ftew  very 
iofdy  tiU  it  is  done.    When  it  is  taken  up,  put  in  a  little 

warm  ei&nee  of  ham. 

PiGEOKS  a-la-foujel.  Bone  four  pigeons,  and  make 
ft  force-m^  as  fer  pigeons  compote.  Stuff  them,  and 
put  them  into  a  ftewpan  with  a  pint  of  veal  gravy.  Stew 
ihem  half  an  hour  very  gendy,  and  then  take  them  out. 
In  the  mean  dme,  make  a  veal  force-meat,  and  wrap  it 
all  round  them.  Rub  it  over  with  the  yolk  of  an  egg, 
and  fiy  them  of  a  nice  brown  in  good  dripping.  Tak^ 
the  gravy  they  were  ftewed  in,  flcim  oflf  the  fat,  thicken 
with  a  litde  buuer  rolled  in  flow,  the  yolk  of  an  egg^ 

Vol.  II,  1  i  and 


a4^  P    I    G    fi    O    N    S- 

and  a  gill  of  cream,  beat  tip.  Seafon  it  with  pepper 
and  fait,  mix  it  all  together,  and  keep  it  ftirrbg  one  way 
till  it  is  fmooth.  Strain  it  into  your  di(h,  and  put  the 
pigeons  on.  Garoifti  with  plenty  of  fried  parfley.  You 
may  leave  out  the  egg  and  <:ream>  and  put  in  a  ipoon* 
ful  of  browning,  and  a  little  lemon  pickle  and  catchup, 
'  Tojlew  Pigeons.  Let  your  pigeons  be  feafoned  with 
pepper  and  fait,  a  few  cloves  and  mace,  and  Ibmc  fweet 
herbs ;  wrap  this  feafoning  up  in  a  piece  of  butter,  and 
put  it  in  their  bellies  j  then  tie  up  the  neck  and  vent, 
and  half  road  them.  Put  them  in  a  (tewpan>  with  a 
tjuart  of  good  gravy,  a  litde  white  wine,  a  few  pepper 
corns,  three  or  four  blades  of  mace,  a  bit  of  lemon,  a 
bunch  of  fweet  herbs,  and  a  fmall  onion.  Stew  them 
gently  till  they  arc  enough  ;  then  take  the  pigeons  out, 
and  ftrain  the  liquor  through  a  fieve ;  fkim  it  and  thick- 
en it  in  your  ftewpan,  put  in  the  pigeons,  with  fomc 
pickled  TTiulhrooms  and  oyfters ;  ftew  five  minutes, 
and  put'  the  pigeons  in  a  difli,  and  the  fauce  over. 

Another  way.  Half  roaft'or  fry  the  pigeons,  ftew  them 
in  cuUis  ;  when  thfey  are  tender,  (kim  the  faucc ; 
thicken  it  with  a  little  flour,  add  a  little  chopped  Ihal- 
Iot>  force-meat  balls,  hard  yolks  of  eggs,  kyan,  and  Ic- 
Unon-juice.  ' 

'  PiOEONS  in  favoury  Jelly.  Roaft  your  pigeons  with 
the  head  and  feet  on,  put  a  fprig  of  myrtle  in  their  bills ; 
make  a  jelly  fdr  them,  the  fame  way  as  for  the  chickens, 
pour  a  little  into  a  bafon.  When  it  is^^fet,  lay  in  the 
pigeons  with  their  breafts  down ;  fill  up  your  bowl  with 
youf  jelly,  and  airn  it  out. 

To  bake  Pigeons:     Seafon  thenfi  with  pepper  and  fait, 
put  a  bit  of  bmtcr  into  each,  pour  over  them  the  fol- 
lowing 


#  • 


P    I    G    E  •  O    N    S.  .243 

lowing  batter-^Thrce  eggs,  two  fpoonfuls  of  flour,  half  a 
pint  of  niilk,  and  a  little  fait. 

Pigeons  /«  compote.  Trufs  the  pigeons  with  their  legs 
in  their  bodies/but  firft  ftufFthem  with  good  force-meat 
(made  in  the  fame  manner  as  for  pigeons  i-lai-daube), 
let  them  be  parboiled,  then  lard  them  with  bits  of  ba^ 
con,  fcafoned  with  pepper,  fpices,  minced  chires,  and 
parfley;  let  them  ftew  as  gendy  as  pofllblc;  While 
they  are  (tewing  make  a  ragoo  of  cock's-combs,  fowls 
livers,  truffles,  morels,  and  mufhrooms^  melt  a  litde 
bacon  in  a  frying-pan,  and  put  them  in,  ihake  the  pan 
round' two  or  three  times  ;  then  put  in  fomc  rich  gravy, 
let  it  fimmer  a  little,  and  put  in  fome  cuUis  of  veal  and 
ham  to  thicken  it.  Take  the  pigeons,  drain  them,  and 
put  them  into  this  ragoo.  Let  them  juft  fimmer  in  if, 
then  take  them  up,  put  them  into  a  di(h,  and  pour  the 
ragoo  over  them.    • 

Another  way.  Take  fix  young  pigeons,  and  fkewer 
them  as  for  boiling  j  make  a  force-meat  thus — Grate 
the  crumb  of  a  penny  loaf,  half  a  pound  of  fat  bacon^ 
Ihred  fome  fweet  herbs  and  parfley  fine,  two  fliallots,  or 
a  litde  onion,  a  little  lemon  peel,  a  litde  grated  nut- 
meg ;  feaibn  it  with  pepper  and  fait,  and  mix  it  up  with 
the  yolk  of  two  eggs ;  put  it  into  the  craws  and  bellieSj 
lard  them  down  the  breaft,  and  fry  them  brown  with  a 
litde  butter  \  then  put  them  in  a  ftewpan,  with  a  pint 
of  flrrong  brown  gravy,  a  gill  of  white  wine  j  ftew  them 
three  quarters  of  an  hour,  thicken  it  with  a  litde  butter 
rolled  in  flour,  feafon  with  fait  and  kyan  pepper,  put 
the  pigeons  in  the  difli,  and  ftrain  the  gravy  over  them; 
lay  Ibme  hot  force-meat  balls  round  them,  and  fend 

chem  up  hot. 

I  i  2  Tigetms 


B44  PIGEONS. 

Pigeons  a^Ia^uxelk.  Cut  off  the  feet  aad  pimcei  6t 
four  or  five  pigeons,  and  fplit  them  down  the  breaft, 
then  take  out  the  liver^  and  flat  them  with  a  cleaver : 
make  a  hot  marinade  of  Ibme  icraped  bacon,  feafbned 
with  a  mulhroom  or  two,  green  onions,  pef^^er,  ial^ 
thyme,  and  parflcy,  and  a  litde  nutm^ :  fiy  all  a  few 
minutes,  and  let  the  pigeons  be  heated  through  in  ir» 
and  let  them  renuun  till  you  put  them  upon  your  grid* 
iron :  take  a  thin  flice  of  ham  for  each  pigeon,  and  put 
them  with  the  ham  always  at  top.  I  mean,  when  yon 
turn  your  pigeons,  turn  your  ham  upon  them.  For 
your  fauce,  take  a  ladle  of  gravy,  ibme  iweet  bafd^  a 
litde  thyme,  parfley,  and  fhallot,  minced  very  fine,  and 
a  few  dices  of  mufhrooois,  .boiled  all  togedier  a  few 
minutes;  diih  up,  your  breaft  downwards,  let  your 
ham  continue  upon  them,  and  pour  your  iauce  over, 
with  the  juice  of  a  lemon  or  orange. 

Pigeons  a-la-daube.  Put  a  layer  of  bacon  in  a  large 
faucepan,  then  a  layer  of  veal,  a  layer  of  coaiie  beeiQ 
and  another  litde  layer  of  veal,  about  a  pound  of  beef^ 
and  a  pound  of  veal,  cut  very  thin ;  a  piece  of  carroty 
a  bundle  of  fweet  herbs,  an  onion,  fome  blade  and 
white  pepper,  a  blade  or  two  of  mace,  and  four  or  five 
cloves:  cover  the  faucepan  clofe,  fet  it  over  a  flow  fire, 
draw  it  till  it  is  brown,  to  make  the  gravy  of  a  fine  light 
brown  i  then  put  in  a  quart  of  boiling  water,  and  let  it 
ftew  till  the  gravy  is  quite  rich  and  good  j  then  ftrain 
it  o£F,  and  flcim  off  all  die  fat.  In  die  mean  time,  ftuflF 
<he  bellies  of  the  pigeons  with  force-meat  made  th\is : — 
Take  a  pound  of  veal,  abound  of  beef  fuet,  and  beat 
both  fine  in  a  mortar ;  an  equal  quantity  of  crumbs  of 
bread,  fome  pepper,  fait,  nutmeg,  beaten  mace,  a  lit^ 

dc 


PIGEONS.  1245 

tk  knion-ped  cut  fmaU,  Ibmc  pariley  cut  fmaO,  and  a 
very  little  thyme  ftripped:  mix  all  together  wkh  the 
yolks  of  two  eggs,  fill  the  pigeons^  and  flat  the  breaft 
down ;  then  fiour  them^  and  fry  them  in  Srcfh  butter  a 
litde  brown  $  then  pour  the  fat  clean  out  of  the  pan,  and 
put  the  gravy  to  the  pigeons  j  cover  them  dofe,  and 
let  them  ftew  a  quarter  of  an  hour,  or  till  yo^  think 
they  arc  quite  enough ;  then  take  them  up,  lay  them 
in  a  difh,  and  pour  in  your  fauce  *,  on  each  pigeon  lay 
a  bay  leaf,  and  on  the  leaf  a  flice  of  bacon.  You  may 
garniflx  widi  a  lemon  notched ;  but  it  will  do  without. 
You  may  leave  out  the  Huffing,  as  it  will  be  rich 
enough  without  it. 

F lonons  iu  dijguije.  Draw  and  truis  your  pigeons, 
feaibn  them  with  pepper  and  fait  -,  make  a  nice  puff- 
pafte,  and  roll  each  pigeon  in  a  piece  of  it ;  tic  them 
in  a  ck>th,  and  take  care  the  pafte  does  not  break ;  boil 
chem  in  a  great  deal  of  water ;  they  will  take  an  hout 
and  a  half  boiling.  Take  great  care  when  they  are 
ui^d  they  do  not  break :  put  them  into  a  difh,  and 
j)0ur  a  little  good  gravy  to  theou 

PiGSONS  ^^Uhchar$Hante.  Scald  five  or  fix  fmall  pi- 
geoAS,  and  braze  them  with  a  few  dices  of  lard  and 
fieekd  lemon,  pepper,  fait,  a  faggot  of  fweet  herbs,  and 
broth  s  laid  three  or  feur  fweetbreads  as  for  fricandeaus, 
and  put  thefe  laft  into  a  ftewpan  by  themfelves,  with 
ibme  broth,  a  few  thin  flices  of  veal  fillet,  a  faggot,  a 
few  chibols,  two  cloves,  and  a  litde  bafil :  braze  flow;- 
ly,  and  when  done,  fife  and  fkim  the  braze,  and  reduce 
it  to  a  glaze^  to  rub  over  the  larded  fide  of  the  fweet- 
breads I  add  a  litde  conibmmce,  to  gathe^^ilibe  remain- 
der <^  the  glaze  which  may  ftick  to  the  bottom  of  the 

pans 


h6  pigeons. 

pan ;  fift  it  again  through  a  ficve,  and  add  a  little  more 
peppci'  and  fait  (if  neccflary),  and  a  good  Iqueezc  of 
lemon.     Intermix  the  pigeons  and  fweetbreads  upon  th? 
table-difh,  and  pour  the  fauce  over  the  former,  but  not 
over  the  latter,  as  it  would  fpoil  the  colour  of  the  glaze. 

PicEO'ssin  Fricandeau.  Pick,  draw,  and  walh  your 
pigeons  very  clean,  ftufF  the  craws,  and  lard  them  down 
the  fides  of  the  breaft,  fry  them  in  butter  a  fine  brown, 
and  then  put  them  into  a  tofliiig-pan  with  a  quart  of 
gravy :  ftew  them  till  they  are  tender,  then  take  off  the 
fet,  and  put  in  a  tea-fpoonful  of  lemon  pickle,  a  large 
fpoonful  of  browning,  the  fame  of  walnut  catchup,  a 
little  kyan  and  fait :  thicken  your  gravy,  and  add  half 
an  ounce  of  morels,  .and  four  yolks  of  hard  eggs.  Lay 
die  pigeons  in  your  diih,  and  put  the  morels  and  eggs 
found  them,  and  ftrain  your  fauce  over  them.  Ganulk 
with  barberries  and  lemon-peel,  and  ferve  it  up. 

Amther  u^ay.  After  having  truffed  your  pigeons  with 
dieir  1^  in  their  bo'dies,  divide  them  in  two,  and  lard 
them  with  bacon  j  then  lay  them  in  a  flewpan,  with  the 
larded  fide  downwards,  and  two  whole  leeks  cut  fmaU^ 
two  ladlefuls  of  mutton  broth  or  veal  gravy  j  cover 
tficm  clofe  over  a  very  flow  fire,  and  when  they  arc 
€QOUgh>  make  your  fire  very  briflc,  to  wafte  away  what 
liquQt  remains :  when  they  are  of  a  fine  brown,  take 
diem  up,  and  pour  out  all  the  fat  that  is  left  in  the  pan  i 
then  pour  in  fome  veal  gravy  to  loofcn  what  flicks  to 
the  pan,  and  a  little  pepper :  ftir  it  about  for  two  or 
three  minutes,  and  pour  it  over  the  pigeons.  This  is 
a  pretty  litde  fide-dilh. 

Pigeons  au  SoleiL  Make  a  force-meat  with  half  a 
pound  of  vea!,  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  mutton,  and  tw 

ounces 


PIGEONS.  «47 

ounces  of  beef  i  beat  them  in  a  mortar,  wi^h  fome  pq>- 
per,  fait,  and  mace,  till  they  are  a  pafte :  then  take  the 
yolks  of  three  or  four  eggs,  beat  them  up  well,  and  put 
them  into  a  plate :  mix  alio  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of 
grated  bread,  and  two  ounces  of  flour,  put  it  intq  ano- 
ther plate.  Put  on  a  ftewpan  with  a.  little  rich  beef 
gravy,  tie  up  three  or  four  cloves  in  a  bit  of  muflin^ 
and  put  into  the  gravy ;  put  in  the  pigeons,  let  them 
ftew  till  they  are  almoft  enough,  then  take  them  up, 
and  fet  them  before  a  fire  to  keep  warm ;  then  iet  on  a 
frying-pah  with  fome  good  beef  dripping,  enough  to 
cover  the  pigeons :  when  it  boils,  take  them,  one  at  a 
time,  roll  them  in  the  meat  that  was  beat,  then  in  the 
yolk  of  egg  j  roll  them  in  it  till  they  are  quite  wet^dien 
ftrew  over  with  the  bread  and  fiour,  pour  them  into  the 
boiling  dripping,  and  let  them  remain  till  they  are  of  a 
fine  brown« 

Jinotber  way.  Blanch  your  pigeons,  and  ftew  them 
about  an  hour  in  a  braze,  make  them  very  dry  and 
clean  from  fat  and  foil,  and  make  a  batter  of  nothing 
more' than  ale  or  fmall  beer,  with  flour,  and  a  morfel 
of  butter  boiled  and  put  into  it,  well  ftirred  together. 
Have  a  large  ftewpan  of  lard  ready,  dip  in  your  pi- 
geons, without  cutting  off  either  heads,  legs,  or  wings, 
and  fiy  them  of  a  fine  colour,  and  fend  them  to  table 
with  parfley. 

Pigeons  Surtout.  Havii^  forced  your  pigeons,  lay  a 
flice  of  bacon  on  the  breaft,  and  a  flice  of  veal  beat  with 
the  back  of  a  knife,  and  feaioned  with  mace,  pepper, 
and  fait ;  tie  it  on  with  a  fmall  packthread,  or  two  fmall 
fine  fkewers  are  better  \  fpit  them  on  a  fine  bird  fpit, 
roaft  themj  and  bafte  them  with  a  piece  of  butter,  then 

with 


14>  PIGEONS. 

vith  die  yolk  of  art  egg»  and  then  bade  them  again  wkb 
die  crumbs  of  breads  a  Bttle  nutmeg,  and  fWeec  herbs* 
When  they  are  enough,  lay  them  in  your  dilb  i  have 
good  gravy  ready,  with  truffles,  morels,  and  nniAi* 
rooms  to  pour  into  your  diib ;  and  garnifh  with  Jemoa* 

Pigeons  tranfmogrijUd.  Pi<:k  and  clean  fix  finafl 
pigeons,  but  do  not  cut  off  their  heads ;  cut  off  their 
|>inions,  and  boil  them  ten  minutes  in  Water,  then  cut 
•ff  the  ends  of  fix  large  cucumbers,  and  fcrape  out  the 
feeds ;  put  in  your  pigeons,  but  Idt  the  heads  be  cut  at 
the  ends  of  the  cucumbers,  and  ftick  a  bunch  of  bar- 
berries in  their  Hlis  ;  and  then  put  them  in  a  toflkig* 
^an  with  a  pint  of  veal  gravy,  a  litttle  anchovy,  a  ^a6 
of  red  wine,  a  fpoonfu)  of  browning,  a  little  flfcc  of 
lemon,  kyan  and  fait  to  your  t^Ae,  ftew  them&MB 
rtiinutes,  take  them  out,  thicken  your  gravy  with  a  lit- 
tle butter  rolled  in  flour,  boil  it  up,  and  ftrain  it  over 
your  pig^ns,  and  ferve  them  up. 

Pigeons  a-la-braze.  Pick,  draw,  and  trufs  fbme  hrgb 
pigeons,  then  take  a  ftewpan  and  lay  at  the  bottom  fonM 
flices  of  bacon,  veal,  and  onions ;  feafon  the  pigeons 
with  pepper,  fait,  fome  Ipice  beat  fine,  and  fome  fweet 
herbs ;  lay  them  into  the  ftewpan,  then  lay  upon  them 
ibme  more  flices  of  veal  and  bacon ;  let  them  ftew  very 
gently  over  a  ftove,  the  top  of  the  ftewpan  put  down 
very  clofe.  When  they  are  ftewed,  make  a  ragoo  with 
,  yeal  fweetbreads^  truffles,  morels,  champignons  j  the 
fweetbreads  muft  be  blanched,  and  put  into  a  ftev^pan 
with  a  ladleful  of  gravy,  a  litde  cullis,  the  truffles/ 
morels,  &c.  let  them  all  ftew  together  with  the  pigeoos. 
When  they  are  enough,  put  them  into  a  difh,  and  pour 
the  ragoo  over  them. 

2  A  pup^ 


PIGEONS.  1249 

Apupton  ^/PiOBONS.  Take  favoury  force-meat,  rolled 
out  like  a  pafte,  put  it  in  a  butter  diih,  lay  a  layer  of 
very  thin  bacon,  fquab  pigeons,  diced  fwcetbread,  aC 
paragus  tops,  mufhrooms,  cocks-combs,  a  palate  boiled 
tender  and  cut  in  pieces,  and  the  yolks  of  bard  eggs. 
Make  another  force-meat  and  lay  over  like  a  pie ;  bake 
it,  and  when  enough^  turn  it  into  a  difh,  and  pour  gra« 
yy  round  it. 

PiOEONs  in  Pimlico.  Take  the  livers,  with  fome  fat 
and  lean  of  ham  or  bacon,  muihrooms,  truffles,  parfley^ 
and  fweet  herbs ;  feafon  with  beaten  mace,  pepper  and 
fait  i  beat  all  this  together  with  two  raw  eggs,  put  it 
into  the  bellies,  roll  them  all  in  a  thin  flice  of  veal,  over 
them  a  thin  flice  of  bacon ;  wrap  them  up  in  white 
paper,  fpit  them  on  a  fmall  fpit,  and  roail  them.  In 
the  mean  time  make  for  them  a  ragoo  of  truffles  and 
muihrooms,  chopped  fmall,  with  parfley  cut  fmall ; 
put  to  it  half  a  pint  of  good  veal  gravy,  thicken  with  a 
piece  of  butter  rolled  in  flour.  An  hour  will  do  your 
pigeons.  Bafl:e  them ;  and  when  enough,  lay  them  in 
your  difli,  take  ofi^  the  paper,  and  pour  your  fauce 
over  them.  Garnifli  with  patties  made  thus : — ^Takc 
veal  and  cold  ham,  beef  fuet  an  equal  quantity,  fbmc 
muibroom$,  fweet  herbs,  and  fpice ;  chop  them  fmall, 
fet  them  on  the  fire,  and  moiften  with  milk  or  cream ; 
then  make  a  litde  puff-pafl:e,  roll  it,  and  niakc  litde 
patties  about  an  inch  deep  and  two  inches  long ;  fill 
them  with  the  above  ingredients,  cover  them  clofe,  and 
bake  them ;  lay  fix  of  them  round  a  difli«  This  makes 
a  fine  difli  for  a  firfl:  courfe. 

PiGSONS  Royal  fajhwn.  Singe  what  number  you  plcafe 
of  pig^ns  that  are  of  an  equal  hignefs,  put  a  peeled 

Yov  II,  K  k  truffle 


i. 


ft5o  ?      I      K      £♦ 

truffle  in  eacli>  and  give  diem  a  fty  in  butter,  HFith 
diopped  muihnx)ms3  parfley^  thihoh,  a  flice  of  hamj 
|)epper9  and  fait;  thbn  put  diem  into  a  &ucepan  tq 
braze,  with  a  fpw  dices  of  veal  firil  (balded,  and  die 
firft  feafoniftg  over  the  pigeons  j  cover  diem  with  thin 
flices  of  bacon  and  a  laurel4eaf^  and  put  a  (heet  of  white 
paper  over  the  whole ;  ftop  the  pan  clofe,  and  fimmer 
on  a  flow  fire  till  they  are  quite  tender.  Take  out  die 
pigeons,  and  wipe  off  die  fat ;  fift  the  fara^,  boil  k  9, 
moment  and  fkim  it  very  clean;  when  ready,  add  il 
lemoh  fqueezc,  and  ferye  it  upon  die  pigeons. 


PIKE. 

To  Ml  a  iPtitB.  Clean  a  krge  pil^e,  and  take  out  die 
giiks  make  a  (luffing  with  fometrumbs  of  bread  grated 
fkie,  fom^  fweet  hetb^  chopped  imall,  feme  graced  le^ 
mcAi  peel,  nutmeg,  pepper,  fait,  ibme  oyibers  d]q>p€d 
£nall,  and  a  piece  of  buiter ;  mix  up  thefe  ingredients 
widi  di^  yolks  of  tm>  eggs,  put  it  into  the  fifh,  and  few 
h  lap }  turn  the  tail  into  the  moudi,  and  boH  it  in  pump 
water,  m\ii  feme  vinegar  and  fait  in  it.  When  it  boils^ 
fmt  in  the  fi(h ;  it  will  take  more  than  haif  xn  faour^r  if 
k  is  a  large  one.  Oyfter  fauce :  pour  fome  over  the 
fMii,  the  t*eft  in  a  boat. 

JbMim'  w(^n  Make  a  browning  with  butter  and 
lk>ur  I  add  a  pint  off  red  wine,  a  faggot,  four  doves^ 
t9^  do^sen  of  fmaH  onions  half  b<nled,  pepper  and  £dt| 
xxtt  the  p4ke  in  pieces,  itew  it  itaiAy  all  done,  take  out 
the  faggot,  and  add  a  piece  6f  butter.  When  reaidy  tft 
ferve^  add  two  chopped  anchovies,  and  a  ^oisful  of 
capers.    Garnifli  with  fried  bread>  and  ferve  dve  fauce 

ever 


PIKE.  asi 

4)Ver  al)«    Tou  may  alTo  add  artichoke  bottoms^  rnulh^ 
.rooms,  carproesj  &C. 

Amabtr  waf.  Take  oi)t  the  gilU  iSmd  guts^  wa(H  it 
wdl»  then  piake  a  good  force-meat  of  oy(^er$j  chopped 
finet  the  cnimb  of  half  a  penny  loafs  a  few  fweetherb^i 
Rnd  a  Uttle  lemon-pee)  ihred  (inei  nu6n^  p^ppcr^ 
and  fait,  to  your  tafte;  a  good  lump  of  butter>  and  die 
yolks  of  two  eggs ;  mix  them  well  together,  and  put 
diem  in  the  belly  of  your  fifh ;  few  it  up,  fkewer  it 
roundt  put  hard  water  in  your  iilh-pan^  add  to  it  a  tea* 
cupful  of  vinegar^  and  a  litde  ialt :  when  it  boiU  put 
in  the  fifh ;  if  it  be  a  middle  fiste,  it  wiU  take  half  aa 
hour's  boiling.  Garnilh  it  with  wahiuts  and  piekled 
barberries ;  ferve  it  up  with  oyfter  fauce  in  a  boatj  and 
pour  a  little  fauce  on  the  pike^ 

To  roajl  a  Pikb.  Draw  a  pike>  walh  it  clean>  mako 
the  feaibning  of  a  litde  parfley,  an  onion  or  fliallo^ 
nutmeg,  cloves  and  mace^  three  or  four  anchovies,  a 
pmt  of  oyfters  or  fhrimps ;  Ihred  and  grate  all  thefe 
very  fmall,  and  mix  it  up  with  half  a  pound  of  butter  i 
jill  the  belly  of  the  pike  widi  this  feafoning,  fpit  and 
roaft  it,  and  ftrew  (bme  on  the  outfide  of  it  i  bafte  it  aa 
it  roafts  with  claret  and  butter. 

Make  your  fauce  of  wine^  oyfter  liquor^  anchovy, 
^tce,  butter,  and  vinegar,  which  is  always  to  be  the  laft 
ingredient  {  when  you  ftir  in  your  butter^  take  care  not 
to  put  in  more. than  will  make  it  mix  well.  Thus  alio 
you  may  roaft  four  mackerel^  fattening  them  on  the  fpit 
Wtth  la^  flat  ikewers  and  a  broad  tape^  ftuffing  them 
widi  the  fame  ftuffing. 

K  2  »  PILLS. 


I  ^54  ] 

PILLS. 

As  the  ingredients  which  enter  the  conDpofition  of 
pills  are  generally  fo  contrived,  that  one  pill  of  an  ordi- 
nary fize  may  contain  about  five  grains  of  the  com- 
poundj  ia  mentioning  the  dofe  we  (hall  only  ipecify  the 
number  of  pills  to  be  taken ;  as  one,  two,  three,  &c. 

Compofing  Pill.  Take  of  purified  opium,  ten  gndns^ 
Caftile  fo^p,  half  a  dram;  beat  them  tc^thcr,  and 
^rm  the  whole  into  twenty  pills.  When  a  quietiiig 
draught  will  not  fit  upon  the  (lomach,  one,  two^  or 
three  of  thefe  pills  may  be  taken,  as  occafion  requires, 

FatidFiLL.  Take  of  afafcetida  half  an  ounce:  fim- 
pie  fyrup,  as  much  as  is  neceflfary  to  form  it  into  pills. 
In  hyfteric  complaints,  four  or  five  pills,  of  an  ordinary 
fize,  may  be  taken  twice  or  thrice  ^  day.  They  may 
likewife  be  of  fervice  to  perfons  afHidted  with  the  afth- 
ma.  When  it  is  necefifary  to  keep  the  body  open,  a 
proper  quantity  of  rhubarb,  aloes,  or  jalap,  may  occa- 
fionally  be  added  to  the  above  mafs. 

A Jlrengihening  Pill»  Take  foft  extrad  of  the  bark} 
and  fait  of  fieel,  each  half  an  ounce ;  make  into  pills. 
In  diforders  arifing  from  exceflive  debility,  or  rdaxa* 
tion  of  the  folids,  as  the  chlorolis,  or  green  fickneis, 
two  of  thefe  pills  may  be  taken  three  times  a  day. 

J^ urging  V ILLS.  Take  of  fuccotrine  aloes,  and  Caf* 
tile  foap,  each  two  drams ;  of  fimple  fyrup^  a  fuffici* 
ent  quantity  to  nnake  them  into  pills. 

Four  or  five  of  thefe  pills  will  generally  prove  a  fuf- 
fcient  purge.  For  keeping  the  body  gently  open,  one 
may  be  taken  night  and  morning.  They  are  reckoned 
both  deobflruent  and  ftomachicj  and  will  be  found  to 

aniwer 


r,- 


P      I      L     L      S»  as3 

anfwcr  all  the  purpofcs  of  Dr.  Andcrfon^s  pills,  the 
principal  ingredient  of  which  is  aloes. 

Where  aloetic  purges  are  irtiproper,  the  following 
pills  may  be  ufed :  Take  extraft  of  jalap,  and  vitrio- 
lated  tartar,  of  each  two  drams ;  fyrup  of  ginger,  as 
much  as  will  make  them  of  a  proper  confiftence  of  pills. 
Thcfc  pills  may  be  taken  in  the  fame  quatitity  as  the 
above. 

Pill  for  the  Jaundice.  Take  of  Caftile  foap,  fucco- 
trine  aloes,  and  rhubarb,  of  each  one  dram:  mix 
them  into  pills,  widi  a  fuiHcient  quantity  of  fyrup  or 
mucilage.  Theft  pills,  as  their  title  cxprefles,  arc 
chiefly  intended  for  the  jaundice  j  which,  with  the  aC- 
fiftance  of  proper  diet,  they  will  often  cure.  Five  or 
fix  of  them  may  be  taken  twice  a  day,  more  or  lels,  as 
is  neceflary  to  keep  the  body  open.  It  will  be  proper, 
however,  during  their  ufe,  to  interpofc  now  and  then  a 
vomit  of  ipecacuanha  or  tartar  emetic. 

Stomachic  Pill.  Take  extract  of  gentian,  two 
drams;  powdered  rhubarb  and  vitriolated  tartar,  of 
each  one  dram;  oil  of  mint,  thirty  drops;  fimple 
fyrup,  a  fufficient  quantity.  Three  or  four  of  thefe 
pills  may  be  taken  twice  a  day,  for  invigorating  the 
ftomach,  and  keeping  the  body  gently  open. 

Squill  Pills.  Take  powder  of  dried  fquills,  a  dram 
and  a  half;  gum  ammoniac,  and  cardamon  feeds  in 
powder,  of  each  three  drams;  fimple  fyrup,  a  fuffi- 
cient quantity.  For^dropfical  and  afthmatic  complaints, 
two  or  three  of  thefe  pills  may  be  taken  twice  a  day,  or 
•ftcncr,  if  the  ftomach  will  bear  them. 

PLAICE. 


PLAICE. 

Thefe,  as  well  as  flounders^  &c.  are  drelTed  in  chtf" 
fame  way  as  Soles,  which  fee. 

To  fricafee  VhAicZy  (?r  Flounders.  Clean  the  filh, 
and  cake  off  the  black  fldn^  but  not  the  white;  cut  the 
flefh  from  the  bones  into  long  dices,  and  dip  them  into 
yolk  of  egg  j  ftrew  over  them  fome  bread  rafpings,  and 
fry  them  in  clarified  butter.  When  they  arc  enough^ 
lay  them  upon  a  plate,  and  keep  them  hot.  For  fauce 
-^Take  the  bones  of  the  fiih,  boil  them  in  fome  water  i 
then  put  in  an  anchovy,  fome  thyme,  parfley,  a  little 
pepper,  (alt,  cloves,' and  mace:  let  thefe  fimmer  till 
the  anchovy  is  diflblved,  then  take  the  butter  the  fifh 
was  fried  in,  put  it  into  a  pan  over  the  fire  $  (hake  Ibme 
flour  into  it,  and  keep  ftirring  it  while  the  flour  is 
fliaking  in ;  then  ftrain  the  liquor  into  it,  and  let  it  boil 
till  it  is  thick  \  fqueeze  fome  lemon-juice  into  it  j  put 
the  fifli  into  a  difli,  and  pour  the  fauce  over  them. 

Another  way.  Put  on  a  ftewpan,  with  water  fufficienc 
to  cover  the  quantity  of  flounders,  &c.  which  are  to  be 
drcfled  \  put  in  fome  vinegar  and  hor(e-radi(h.  When 
the  water  boils,  put  in  the  fiih,  but  let  them  be  well 
cleaned,  and  their  fins  cut  ofi^;  do  not  let  them  boil  too 
faft,  left  they  break.  When  they  arc  enough^  lay  them 
on  a  fifh-plate,  the  tails  in  the  middle.  Sauce— ^Parfley 
and  butter.     Dabs  are  boiled  in  the  fame  manner. 


MM* 


PLAISTERS. 

Thefe  preparations  are  compofed  of  6ily  and  un^hioua 
ftibftances,  united  with  powders  into  a  confiftence,  thac 


P  L  A  I   S   T   E    R,  «J5 

wiU  remain  firm  in  the  cold  without  {ticking  to  the  fin* 
gers.'SK^uch  as  are  intended  for  die  breaft  or  flomachy 
oug}«  to  be  foft  and  yielding ;  thofe  defigned  for  the 
liirfes^  more  firm  and  adhefivc. 

7^^  common  Plaister,  wr  ffhite  Diachylon,  which  19 
indeed  die  foundarion  of  moft  others,  may  be  purchafed 
^  die  chymifts,  both  cheaper  and  better  prepared  'than 
can  b;  done  in  private  practice :— ^it  is  generally  applied 
in  flight  wounds  and  excoriations  of  the  fkin^  to  keep^ 
the  part  ibft  and  warfn>  and  defend  it  fix^qi  the  air,  M^ch 
is  all  that  is  necei&ry  in  iiich  cafes. 

Mbefive  or  picking  Plaister.  Melt  together  half  a 
pound  of  common  pkufter  with  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of 
fBurgup^y  pitch.  This  is  principally  ufed  for  keeping, 
pn  other  dreflings. 

Diachylon  with  the  Gums.  Take  three  quarters  of  a 
pound  of  white  diachylon,  two  ounces  of  fbained  gal* 
l>anumi  turpen^ne,  and  frankincenfe,  of  each  three 
quarters  of  9Xk  ounce ;  mdt  them  together  over  a  flow 
fire. 

This  is  ufed  to  ripen  andcleanfe  fores,  as  alfb  for  dif«- 
pefling  indolent  tumors. 

Anodyne  Plaister.    Melt  half  an  ounce  of  adhefive 
plaifter,  and  when  it  is  cooling,  mix  it  with  a  dram  of 
powdered  opium,  and  the  &me  quantity  of  camphor, 
rubbed  up  with  a  litde  oil.    This  generally  gives  eafe 
in  acute  pains,  efpecially  of  die  nervous  kind. 

An  exceUent  Jlrengtbening  Plaister.  Take  white 
diachylon,  half  a  pound;  frankbcenfe,  two  ounces  i  dra- 
gon's blood,  three  quarters  of  an  ounce ;  m^  the  dia- 
^ylon  over  a  flow  fire,  then  add  die  other  ingredients 


^5^  PLOVERS. 

fineljr  powdered,  and  mix  diem  aU'well  togedicr,  by 
flirring  them  continually  till  the  plaifter  is  quite  cold. 

This,  if  conftantly  worn  with  a  proper  bandage^  will 
frequently  do  fervice  in  weakncilesji  and  particularly  in 
diofe  to  which  children  are  fubjedt. 

Bliftering  Plaister.  Take  hogs'  lard,  yellow  wax^ 
iivhite  rofin,  and  powdered  Spanifh  flies,  each  equal 
weights  \  melt  the  lard,  wax,  and  rofm,  and  add  the 
powder  before  the  mixture  cools, 

Bliftering  plaifter  ought  to  be  kept  in  oiled  bladder ; 
if  rubbed  with  a  litde  vin^ar  before  laying  on,  it  will 
fticl5^  better, 

Spanifh  flies  powdered,  and  ipread  upon  coauiioa 
plaifter,  feenis  to  anfwer  all  the  purpofes  of  other  pre- 
parations. 

Stomach  Plaist£r.  Take  gum  plaifter,  half  a 
pound ;  camphorated  oil,  an  ounce  and  a  half  ^  black 
pepper,  finely  powdered,  one  ounce  j  melt  the  plaifter^ 
and  mix  it  with  the  oil ;  then  fprinkle  in  the  pepper. 

An  ounce  of  this  plaifter  fpread  upon  fbft  leather,  an<J 
applied  to  the  ftomach,  (or  rather  to  the  five  lower  ribs 
of  the  left  fide,  toward  the  back)  will  be  of  fervice  ia 
weaknefs  and  many  other  complaints. 

A  little  of  the  eflcntial  oil  of  mint  may  be  rubbe^ 
upon  it  before  it  is  applied. 


PLOVERS. 

Thefe  arc  drcflcd  in  the  general  way  of  other  bird&t 
Plovers  PerigordfaJIAon.  Truls  therp  as  chickens  or 
pigeons  for  ftcwing  i  braze  them  in  a  good  braze.  When 

donCji 


•  > 


POISON.  ftJ7 

done)  ikim  and  lift  (he  braze:  when  ready  to  ierve>  add 
die  fqueeze  of  a  Jeoion*  You  may  alio  (hiiF  and  roaft 
them  as  partridges^  &c.  Thrufhes  and  lapwings  may 
be  drefled  in  the  iame  manner^  fcrved  with  a  cullis 
&uce. 


PLUM^-^cc  Priserving,  PubdivOj  &C4 


POISONS,    q/"  various  Kinds. 

Poifons  are  generally  taken  unawares,  and  their  d&fts 
Arc  often  fo  fuddcn  and  violent,  as  not  to  admit  of  delay, 
or  allow  rime  to  procure  the  affiftance  of  phyficians. 
Happily,  indeed,  the  remedies  for  moft  poifons  being 
generally  at  hand,  or  eafily  obtained,  nothing  but 
common  prudence  is  needftil  in  the  application  of  them. 

In  treating  of  this  ardcle,  we  include  all  the  noxious 
ingredients  which  lujtury  has  brought  into  the  kitchen  i 
as  truffles,  morels,  mulhrooms,  laurel  water,  and  a 
long  tribe  of  others  5  befides  what  arifcs  from  the  ufe  of 
rufty  copper-pans,  &c, 

Poifon  is  fcldom  long  in  the  ftomach  before  it  occa- 
fions  ficknefe,  with  an  incKnation  to  vomit;  which 
0iould  be  immediately  procured :  and  were  tfiis  duly  re- 
garded, the  danger  arifmg  from  poifons  might  generally 
be  avoided. 

Poifons  either  belong  to  the  mineral,  the  vegetable, 
or  the  animal  kingdom* 

Vol.  n.  t  1  Minc^ 


258         poison; 

Mineral  poifons  are  comn^only  of  an  acrid  or  corro- 
fivc  quality ;  as  arfcnic,  cobalt^  the  corrofive  fublimatc 
of  mercury,  &c.  • 

Thofe  of  the  vegetable  kind  are  generally  of  a  nar- 
cotic, or  ftupcfadive  quality  j  as  poppy,  hemlock^  hen- 
bane, berries  of  the  deadly  nightfhade,  &c. 

Poiibnous  animals  communicate  their  iofeftion  only 
when  received  into  the  body  by  a  wound. 

Arfenic  is  the  mod  common  mineral  poifon ;  and,  as 
the  whole  of  them  are  pretty  fimilar  both  in  their  eflFedts  . 
and  method  of  cure,  what  is  faid  with  refpeft  of  it,  will 
be  applicable  to  every  other  fpecies  of  corrofive  poifon. 

When  a  perfon  has  taken  arfenic,  he  foon  perceives  a 
burning  heat,  and  a  violent  prickling  pain  in  his  ftp- 
mach  and  bowels,  with  an  intolerable  third,  and  an  in- 
clination to  vomit.  .  The  tongue  and  throat  feel  rough 
and  dry ;  and,  if  proper  means  be  not  foon  adminif- 
tercd,  the  patient  is  feized  with  great  anxiety,  hiccup- 
ing,  faintings,  and  coldnefs  of  the  extremities.  To 
thefe  fucceed  black  vomits,  foetid  ftools,  with  a  morti- 
fication of  the  ftomach  and  inteftines,  which  arc  the 
immediate  forerunners  of  death. 

The  patient  fliould  drink  large  quantities  of  new  milk 
and  fallad  oil  till  he  vomits ;  or  he  may  drink  warm 
water  mixed  with  oil.  Fat  broths  are  likewife  proper, 
provided  they  can  be  got  ready  in  time.  Where  no  oil 
is  to  be  had,  frefti  butter  may  be  melted  and  mixed 
with  the  milk  or  water.  Thefe  things  are  to  be  drank 
;as  long  as  the  inclination  to  vomit  continues.  Some 
have  drank  eight  or  ten  quarts  before  the  vomitins 
ceafed ;  and  it  is  never  fafe  to  leave  off  drinking  while 
pne  particle  of  the  poifon  remains  in  the  ftoouclu 

If 


POISON.  259 

If  thcfc  ihould  not  make  the  perfon  vomit,  half  a 
dram  or  two  fcruples  of  the  powder  of  ipecacuanha  muft 
be  given,  or  a  few  Ipoonfuls  of  the  oxymel  or  vinegar 
of  iquills  may  be  mixed  with  the  water  which  he  drinks. 
Vomiting  may  likewife  be  excited  by  tickling  the  infide 
of  the  throat  with  a  feather.  Should  thefe  methods 
however  fail,  half  a  dram  of  white  vitriol,  or  five  or  fix 
grains  of  emetic  tartar  muft  be  adminiftcred. 

If  tormenting  pains  are  felt  in  the  lower  belly,  and 
there  is  reafbn  to  fear  that  the  poifon  has  got  down  to 
the  inteftines,  clyfters  of  miJk  and  oil  muft  be  very  fi^e- 
quently  thrown  up,  and  the  patient  muft  drink  emollient 
decoftions  of  barlq',  oatmeal,  marflimallows,  and  fuch 
like.  He  muft  likewife  take  an  infijfion  of  fenna  and 
manna,  a  folution  of  Glauber's  falts,  or  ibmc  other 
purgative. 

After  the  poifon  has  been  evacuated,  the  patient 
ought,  for  fome  time,  to  live  upon  fuch  things  as  arc 
of  a  healing  and  cooling  quality  :  to  abftain  fi-om  flefii 
and  all  ftrong  liquors. 

Vegetable  Poisons,  befides  heat  an4  pain  of  the  fto- 
mach,  commonly  occafion  fome  degree  of  giddinefi, 
and  often  a  kind  of  ftupidity  or  folly.  Pcrfons  who 
have  taken  thefe  poifons  niuft  be  treated  in  the  fame 
manner  as  for  the  mineral  or  corrofive,  and  the  danger 
is  generally  over  as  loon  as  they  are  difcharged. 
.  Opium,  being  fi-equently  taken  by  miftake,  merits 
particular  attention. 

An  over-dofe  of  opium  generally  occafions  great 

drowfinefs,  with  ftupor  and  other  apopleftic  fymptoms. 

'  Sometimes  the  perfon  has  fb  great  an  inclination  to 

ileep,  that  it  is  almoft  impoffible  to  keep  him  awake* 

H  2  Every 


a^  P     O      I      S      O      N, 

Every  method  nnuft»  howcvefj  \fc  tried  for  this  puppofe. 
He  ibould  be  toflbd^  ihakedj  and  moved  dboat.  Sharp 
blifteriqg-plaifters  fhould  be  2q;>plied  (o  his  legft-and 
arms>  and  ftimula(ing  medicinesj  as  ialts  ei  hartdhori^ 
$:c,  held  under  his  nofe.  It  will  be  jM-oper  to  lee  ktood^ 
At  the  fame  time  every  method  mufl:  be  taken  to  naake 
him  diicharge  the  poifon.  This  may  be  done  in  die 
manner  direfted  above>  viz.  by  the  ufe  cf  ftrong  yo^ 
mits,  drinking  plenty  of  warm  water  with  oil»  fi(c. 

If  the  body  fiioukl  remain  weak  and  languid  after  the 
poilbn  has  been  difcharged>  nouriihing  diet  and  cor- 
rals will  be  ptapcr  i  but  when  there  is  realbn  to  fear 
that  the  ftomach  or  bowels  are  inflamed,  the  greate^ 
circumfpe^ion  is  neceffary  both  with  regard  to  food  and 
medicines. 

Of  the  bites  of  poifonous  animals,  wp  Ihall  confin 
dcr  only  the  bite  o£  a  mad-dog,  as  it  is  both  the  nioft 
common  and  cbuagerous  animal  poifon  in  this  country* 
And  amidft  all  the  methods  of  managing  this  unhappy 
complaint,  we  have  not  been  able  to  feleft  any  mode  of 
treacment  fuperior  to  the  following  direAionS).  which 
onginaUy  appeared  in  the  Chejitr  newfpapQrs».  and  nu* 
merous  copies  t£  thena  were  diiiperfixl  in  that,  and  the 
neighbouring  towns.  They  were  reprinted  into  the 
Mancheji^  Chfonich,  on  the  fecontmendatloa  of  »  Phy- 
fician  of  great  eminence  in  th^  place,  who  is  generdl]f» 
and  juftly  celebrated  for  his  medical  publications.  And, 
at  the  requcft  of  a  yery  intelligent  Sui^ffon  of  OJwfJtyi 
in  Shro0fire^  50a  copies  wefeprtnted  by  the  Chief  Ma- 
giftrate  of  the  town>  and  difperfed  through  the  wholfc 
neighbourhood  by  the  people  aflembled  at  an  aamiat 
fair* 

BITE 


POISON-  aSt 

BITEotAMADDOO. 

^^  Near  fTrexham,  in  North  fVales^  three  men  died 
of  canine?  m^dnefs  in  Oflobcr  and  November,  1788. 

*'  Thefc  melancholy  cafes  (pread  a  general  alamu 
But  it  ought  to  give  great  comfort  and  fatisfaAion  ta 
any  one  who  may  be  bit,  to  know  that  there  is  a  lafc^ 
eafy,  and  eSedual  method  of  preventing  infedion^ 
which  can  feldom  give  pain,  or  require  ikill,  and  is  ia 
the  power  of  every  perfon  to  employ.  It  is  univerfally 
allowed  by  phyficians,  that  the  fpittle  of  a  mad  animal, 
ir/u(ed  into  a  wound,  is  the  only  cauie,  hitherto  known, 
that  can  communicate  canine  madnefs  to  the  huma» 
body.  This  poifbn  does  no  immediate  mifchief^  but  is 
(lowly  abfbrbed  into  the  .blood,  and  fulEctent  *opportu«< 
nity  is  given  to  remove  it,  before  any  danger  can  ariie. 

**  Whenever  a  perfon  is  bit,  the  plain  and  obvioxK  means 
of  preventing  future  injury  is^  firft,  to  wipe  off  the 
fpittle  with  a  dry  cloth,  and  then  to  wafh  the  wound 
with  warm  water  j  not  (lightly  and  fuperficially,  but 
abundandy,  and  with  the  moft  perfevering  attention, 
in  bad  cafes,  for  feveral  hours.  A  continued  llream  of 
it,  poured  from  the  fpout  of  a  tea-pot  or  tca-ketde,  held 
up  at  a  confiderable  diftance,  is  peculiarly  well  adapted 
to  the  purpofe.  If  the  canine  poifon  infufed  into  a 
wound  were  of  a  peculiar  colour,  as  black,  like  ink» 
we  (hould  all  be  aware  that  plenty  of  water  and  patient 
diligence  would  effeftually  wa(h  out  the  dark  dye  i  but 
this  couUr  not  be  cxpeded  by  a  flight  and  fuperficia} 

^bkicion.  ^ 

«  As 


s6i  P      O      I      S      O      N. 

"  As  a  proof  that  flight  wafliing  of  the  woutid  is  not 
iufficienc  to  cleanfe  it  effeftu^y  from  the  poifoD^  we 
may  mehtion,  that,  in  feme  cafes,  after  inoculation  for 
die  fmall  pox,  the  poifonous  matter  has  been  attempted 
to  be  waflied  out  of  the  wound,  by  perfons  who  wiihed 
fo  prevent  its  cffeds ;  yet  the  inoculated  fmall  pox  ap- 
peared at  its  proper  period.  Thpfe  unfuccefeful  attempts 
were  performed  fecrctly,  haftily,  and  timidly,  by  a  fe^ 
male  hand.  They  teach  us  the  importance  of  patient 
perfeverancc  in  wafliing  away  the  poiibn ;  but  they  need 
not  abate  our  confidence  that  fuch  perfeverance  will  cer- 
tainly be  fuccefsfuL 

**  The  ablution  ffiould  be  accompliflied  with  great  di- 
Hgence  and  without  delay,  and  may  be  performed  by 
Ac  patient  or  any  afllftant.  However,  as  the  appre- 
kcnfion  of  this  dreadful  diforder  always  excites  the 
greateft  anxiety,  a  fiirgeon's  advice  and  affiftance  ought 
to  be  obtained,  as  foon  as  poflTible,  in  all  cafes  where 
Ae  Ikin  is  injured.  He  will  execute  thefe  direftions 
moft  dexteroufly  and  completely.  In  a  bad  wound,  the 
poifon  may  be  conveyed  deep  into  the  flefli,  by  long 
teeth  or  by  lacerations :  in  fuch  circumftances,  he  will 
open  and  wafli  every  fufpicious  place.  And,  whenever 
any  uncertainty  can  remain,  that  may  occafion  future 
folicitude,  he  fliould  cup  the  wound.  By  this  method 
of  purification,  it  cannot  be  doubted  that  every  particle 
ofpoifon,  aid,  confequently,  that  every  caufe  of  dan- 
ger may  be  efftd^ually  removed. 

"If  this  method  of  treatment  fliall  have  been  ne- 
gledted,  till  an  inflammation  of  the  bitten  part  has  com- 
menced, it  will  be  neceflary  to  fliave  ofi^  the  inflamed 

fur- 


P      0      1      S      O      N.  A63 

fiirfacc,  apply  a  cupping  glaft  repeatedly,  and  alier*- 
nately  with  a  plentiful  effufion  of  warm  water," 

It  may  be  neceflary  to  obferve,  that  the  fymptoms  of 
madneis  in  a  dog  ar/e  as  follow  :  At  firfl:  he  looks  duU* 
Ihews  an  averfion  to  food  and  company :  he  does  not 
bark  as  ufual,  but  feems  to  murmur ;  is  peeviih,  and 
apt  to  bite  ftrangers :  his  ears  and  tail  droop  more  thaa 
tilual,  and  he  appears  drowfy :  afterwards,  he  begins  to 
loll  out  his  tongue,  and  froth  at  the  mouth,  his  eyes 
fccming  heavy  and  watery.  He  now,  if  not  confined, 
takes  off,  runs  panting  along  with  a  kind  of  dejefted^ 
air,  and  endeavours  to  bite  every  one  he  meets.  Other 
dogs  are  faid  to  fly  from  him.  Some  think  this  is  a 
certain  lign  of  madnefs,  fuppofing  that  they  know  him 
by  the  fmell,  but  it  is  not  to  be  depended  on.  If  he 
^icapes  being  killed,  he  feldom  runs  above  two  or  three 
days^  till  he  dies  exhaufked  with  heat,  hunger,  and 
fatigue. 

This  difeafe  is  moft  frequent  after  long,  dry,  hot 
feafbns ;  and  fuch  dogs  as  live  upon  putrid  ftinking  car- 
rion, without  having  enough  of  frefh  water,  are  moft 
liable  to  it. 

With  regard  to  poifonous  infefts,  as  the  bee,  the 
waip,  the  hornet,  &c.  their  flings  are  feldom  attended 
with  danger,  unlefs  when  a  perfon  happens  to  be  ftung 
by  a  great  number  at  a  time,  in  which  cafe,  fomething 
ftiould  be  done  to  abate  the  inflammation  and  fwelling. 
Some,  for  this  purpofe,  apply  honey;  others  lay 
pounded  parfley  to  the  part.  A  mixture  of  vinegar 
and  Venice-treacle  is  likewife  recommended ;  but  nib- 
bing the  part  with  warm  fallad-oil  fucceeds  very  well. 
Indeed,  when  the  flings  are  fo  numerous  as  to  endan- 
ger 


264  FOR      K. 

ger  the  patient's  life^  which  is  Ibmctimes  the  cafe,  he 
muft  not  only  have  oily  poultices  applied  to  the  part,  but 
muft  likewife  be  bled,  and  take  Ibnrie  cooling  medi- 
cines, as  nitre,  or  cream  of  tartar,  and  (hould  dnnk 
plentifully  of  diluting  liquors. 


PORK.. 

^0  pickle  Pork.  Having  cut  your  pork  in  pieces  of 
a  convenient  fize  to  lie  in  the  powdering  tub,  rub  them 
all  over  with  fait  petre ;  then  make  a  mixture  of  two* 
diirds  of  common  (alt,  and  one-third  bay  fait,  and  nib 
every  piece  with  it :  lay  the  pieces  in  your  tub  as  doft 
as  pofTible,  and  throw  a  Ittde  (alt  over  diem. 

To  roajl  Pork.  Pork  muft  be  well  done,  or  it  is  ape 
to  furfeit.  When  you  roaft  a  loin,  take  a  fharp  pen* 
knife  and  cut  the  fkin  acrofs,  to  make  the  crackling  eat 
the  better.     Tho  chine  muft  be  cut,  and  £>  muft  all 

pork  that  has  the  rind  on.     Roaft  a  leg  of  pork  thus :— « 

♦ 

Take  a  knife,  as  above,  and  (core  its  ftufT  the  knuckle 

ft 

part  with  fage  and  onion  chopped  fine,  with  pepper  and 
fidt ;  or  cut  a  hole  under  the  twift,  and  put  the  fage, 
&c.  there,  and  (kewer  it  up  with«  a  fkewer :  roaft  it 
cri(p,  becaule  moft  people  like  the  rind  criip,  which 
they  call  crackling.  Make  ibme  good  apple  fauce,  and 
fend  it  up  in  a  boat ;  then  have  a  little  drawn  gravy  to 
put  in  the  diih.  This  they  call  a  mock-goofe.  The 
ipring,.  or  hand  of  pork,  if  very  young,  roafted  like  a 
pig,  eacs  very  well  i  or  take  the  fpring,  and  cut  off  the 
Ihank  or  knuckle,  and  Iprinkle  £ige  and  onion  over  it, 
and  roll  it  rounds  and  tie  it  wiihi  a  ftvingi  and  roaft  k 

two 


POUR.  25< 

two  hourSj  othefwife  it  is  better  boiled.  The  fpait-rib 
Ihould  be  bafted  with  a  little  bit  of  butter,  a  very  little 
duft  of  flour,  aAd  ibme  fage  Ihred  fiimll ;  but  we  nevei* 
make  any  faute  to  it  but  apple  fauce.  The  beft  way  t6 
dtdk  pork  gtiiktns  is  to  rosdt  them,  bafte  them  with  d 
little  butt^f  and  fage^  ^nd  a  litde  pepper  and  fait.  Ftr^ 
eat  any  thing  with  thefe  but  muftard. 

Pork  Saais.  They  require  mofe  broiling  tharf 
mutton  fteaks.  When  th€y  are  enough  put  iii  a  little 
good  gravy.  A  little  fage,  rubbed  very  fine,  ftrewed' 
over  them,  gives  them  a  fine  tafte. 

Or,— Cut  a  neck  of  pork  which  has  been  kept  fomti 
time,  and  pare  the  ftcaks4)fopefly :  you  may  drefs  them 
irt  the  fame  manner,  in  every  refpeft,  as  veal  cudets, 
and  in  as  many  different  \vays>  ferving  them  with  an/ 
fort  of  ftewed  greens  of  fauces. 

Pork  Qitkts.  Skin  a  bin  of  pork,  and  divide  it  intd 
cutlets  I  ftrew  fome  parfley  and  thyme  cut  fmall,  with 
ibme  pepper,  fa|t,  and  grated  bread  over  them ;  bfoil 
them  of  a  fine  brown  i  have  ready  fome  good  gravy,  4l 
fpoonful  of  feady-nr>ade  muftard,  two  ihallots  flired 
finall  {  boil  thefe  together  over  the  fire,  thickened  With 
a  piece  of  butter  rolled  in  flour,  and  a  little  vinegar^  if 
agreeable.  Put  the  cutlets  into  a  hot  difli,  and  pouf 
the  (auce  over  them. 

tdfatce  ihg^  ]&ars.  Take  two  or  three  pair  of  cars^ 
jparboil  them,  or  take  them  foufed;  then  take  an  an« 
^hovy,  ibme  fage,  fome  parOey,  half  a  pound  of  fueti 
chopped  fmall,  fome  crumbs  of  bread,  and  a  little  pep^^ 
pet  J  mix  all  of  them  together  with  the  yolk  of  an  egg; 
ftufTthem,  artd  fry  them  in  frefli  butter  till  they  are  of 
A  light  brown ;  'Otan  pQW  away  all  die  faCj  and  ^t  to 

Vdt.  11.  Mm  them 


a66  JP    O    R    K. 

them  half  z  pint  of  very  rich  gravy,  a  glafs  of  Madcirt> 
three  tea^fpoonfuls  of  muftard,  a  little  bit  of  butter 
rolled  in  flour,  a  fmall  onion  whole,  and  a  little  pepper  i 
cover  them  clofe,  ftcw  them  very  gently  for  half  an 
hour,  and  fhake  the  pan  often ;  when  they  are  enough^ 
take  them  out,  and  pour  the  fauce  over  them,  but  firft 
take  out  the  onion.  To  improve  the  dilh,  the 
meat  may  be  fliced  from  the  feet,  and  added*  Put 
in  fait  enough  to  give  it  a  proper  flavour. 

Hogs*  Ears  a  la  St.  Menhoult.  One  feet  and  ears  for 
this  is  quite  enough ;  blanch  them  in  water,  fplit  the 
fttty  and  with  a  couple  of  Alices  of  bacon,  and  a  flat 
ftick  like  a  bit  of  lath,  tie  them  together  again  to  keep 
of  a  neat  fhape ;  ftew  them  in  a  braze  ieparate  from  any 
thing  elfe,  till  they  are  very  tender  j  (fa-ip  the  ears  as 
fine  as  poflible ;  and  for  your  fauce,  take  a  large  onion 
cut  very  thin  in  flices,  and  fry  brown  in  a  bit  of  butter  5 
flrain  them  off,  and  put  them  into  a  clean  ilewpan  to 
the  ears,  with  a  ladle  of  cuUis,  and  a  daih  of  white 
wine,  pepper,  and  fait ;  let  it  ftcw  a  quarter  of  an  hour, 
with  a  n^orfel  of  fhallot,  a  fpoonful  of  good  muftard  % 
fqueeze  in  a  lemon  or  orange,  and  a  little  minced  par« 
fleyi  and  di(h  up  with  your  feet  fried  in  the  fame  man* 
ner  as  fheeps'  rumps,  to  lay  round. 

Mogs^  Feet  brazed  and  broiled.  Clean  the  feet  very 
well,  and  cut  them  in  two ;  put  thin  flices  of  lard  be- 
tween each  two  halves ;  tie  them  two  and  two  together  j 
then  fimmer  them  about  flx  hours,  with  two  glafles  of 
white  wine,  one  of  brandy,  a  little  hog's-lard,  lpiccs>  a 
faggot  of  parfley  and  fweet  herbs,  three  fhallots,  and 
one  clove,  of  garlick.  When  done,  let  them  cool  in 
the  braze ;  untie  them,  bafte  with  their  own  fat,  and 

drew 


PORK.  267 

ftrew  them  over  ^th  bread-crumbs  j  broil  of  a  Hne  co- 
lour ;  fcrvc  with  or  without  fzucc.  They  may  alfo  b^ 
iried^  baked^  ragoo'd,  &c. 

Chine  of  Pokk,  poivrade  fauce.     Salt  it  about  three  ^ 
days;    then  roaft  it,   and  ferve  with  fauce-poivrade. 
You  may  alio  fend  Robert  fauce  in  the  fame  boat. 

Ho^^  Tails  of  different  fajhions.  Stew  the  tails  very 
tender  in  broth,  with  a  clove  of  garlic,  whole  pepper, 
fait,  a  little  thyme,  and  two  laurel  leaves.  When  done, 
fcrve  with  what  fauce  you  pleafe;  or  broited  with 
crumbs  of  bread,  with  muftard  fauce  in  a  fauce-boat, 
alib  with  (tewed  cabbages,  &c. 

To  Barbecue  a' Leg  of  Pokk.  Chufe  a  fine  large  leg^ 
lay  it  down  to  a  good  fire,  and  bade  it  well  with  red 
wine  all  the  time  it  is  roailing.  When  it  is  enough, 
take  up  what  is  left  in  the  pan,  put  to  it  two  anchovies, 
the  yolks  of  three  eggs  boiled  hard  and  pounded  fine, 
with  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  butter  and  half  a  lemon,- 
a  bunch  of  fweet  herbs,  a  tea-fpoonful  of  lemon-pickle, 
a  fpoonful  of  catchup,  and  one  of  tarragon  vinegar,  or 
a  little  tarragon  Ihred  fmall  i  boil  them  a  few  minutes, 
theii  draw  your  pork,  and  cut  the  fkin  down  from  the 
bottom  of  the  Ihank  in  rows  an  inch  broad,  raife  every 
other  row,  and  roll  it  to  the  (hank  3  (fa-ain  your  faucc^ 
and  pour  it  in  boiling  hot,  lay  oyfter  pattie$  all  round 
the  pork,  and  fprigs  of  green  parfley. 

To  fluff  a  Chine  of  Por  k.  Take  a  chine  of  pork  that 
has  hung  four  or  five  days ;  make  four  holes  in  the  lean, 
and  ftuflf  it  with  a  little  of  the  fat  leaf,  chopped  very 
fmall,  fome  parfley,  thyme,  a  Htde  fage  and  (hallot  cut 
very  fine,  feafoncd  with  pepper,  fait,  and  nutmeg.    It 

Mm  2  muft 


fi6t  PORK. 

muft  be  fiufied  pretty  thick.    Have  ibine  good  gravy 
ia  the  ^ifh.    For  fauce^  apple-fauce^  and  potatoes. 

Mother  way.  Make  a  duffing  of  the  fat  leaf  of  pork» 
parfley,  thyme,  fage,  eggs^  crumbs  of  bread;  fk^&n 
it  with  pepper^  ia}t>  fhaliot,  and  nutmeg,  and  fluff  it 
thick ;  then  roaft  it  gently,  and  vhen  it  is  abcnit  a  quar« 
ter  roafted,  cut  the  fkia  in  flips ;  and  make  your  fauce 
with  apples,  lemon-peel,  two  or  three  ciovea,  and  ^ 
blade  of  mace ;  fweeten  it  with  fugafj  put  fbme  buttor 
in,  and  have  muftard  in  a  cup. 

Another  xvay.  Take  a  chine  that  has  been  hwg 
about  a  month,  boil  it  half  an  hour,  then  take  it  up 
and  make  holes  in  it  all  oyer  the  lean  part,  one  inch 
fi-om  another,  fluff  them  betwixt  the  joints  with  fhred 
parfley,  rub  it  all  over  with  the  yolk  of  eg^,  flxew  ovcp 
it  bread- crumbs»  bafte  it,  and  fet  it  in  a  JDutch  oven» 
When  it  is  enough,  by  round  it  boiled  broccoli,  or 
ftewed  fpinach.     Garnifh  with  parfley. 

iftg-*i  Head  oh  SangUer,  or  fVtlc^boar  fajbion.   Cut  xhm 
head  cbfe  to  the  fhoulder,  bone  the  neck  part,  part  the 
flefh  from  the  nofe  as  far  as  the  eyes,  cut  off  the  hoiac^ 
lard  the  infide  with  bacon,  feafoned  with  pepper,  &lc^ 
and  fpices  i  vih  it  all  over  with  £dt,  and  half  an  ounce 
of  pounded  falt-petre ;  put  it  in  a  pickle  pan  with  half  a 
handful  of  juniper  berries,  fweet  herbs,  fix  laurel  leaves^ 
bafil,  eight  cloves,  whole  pepper,  and  half  a  handful  of 
coriander  feed ,  let  it  lie  for  about  eight  days,  rubbing  it 
^ery  day;  then  take  il  out  and  wipe  it  dry;  tie  it  well, 
boil  it  with  three  pints  of  red  wine,  and  as  much  wafiep 
as  will  properly  boil  it,  with  onions,  cairots,  a  large 
faggot  of  fweet  herbs,  two  cloves  of  garlic,  four  cloves^ 
and  two  pounds  of  hogsMard  s  when  near  done,  tafle 

the 


"^ 


POSSETS.  ^f 

Ac  brwcj  and  add  Uk,  if  ncceflary  -,  when  it  ^es  vii* 
der  the  finger^  it  is  done ;  let  it  cool  in  the  braze  s  ferre 
cold  upon  ^  aaplcin.  You  may  gamifb  with  bay  leaves 
or  p^fley^  according  to  f^iicy.  You  may  drefi  it  with* 
pi)(  the  hog^'-lardj  as  direQed. 

4  Hog's  Head  Uh  Brawn.  Walh  it  well,  boU  it  tiU 
the  boBca  will  come  out ;  when  cold,  put  the  infide  6[ 
the  cheeks  toge^ier,  widi  fait  between;  put  die  ears 
rQun4  the  fidest  put  the  pheeks  into  a  cloth,  prels  diem 
into  a  fieve>  pr  any  thing  round,  put  on  a  weight  for 
two  days  i  have  ready  a  pickle  of  fait  and  water,  with 
about  a  pint  of  nialt  boiled  tpgetheri  when  cold,  put 
in  die  head. 


POSSETS. 

An  Orange  Posset.  Put  the  crumb  of  a  penny  loaf, 
grated  very  fine,  into  a  pint  of  water,  or  radier  more  % 
and  half  the  peel  of  a  Seville  orange  grated,  or  fugar 
nibbed  upon  it  to  take  out  the  eflence ;  boil  all  toge« 
ther  till  it  looks  thick  and  clear,  then  beat  it  very  well. 
Then  take  a  pint  of  mountain  wine,  the  juice  of  half  a 
Seville  orange,  three  ounces  of  Jordan  almonds,  and' 
one  ounce  of  bitter,  beat  fine,  with  a  licde  French 
brandy  and  fugar  to  your  tafte  i  mix  it  well,  and  put  it 
in  your  poflet,  and  ferve  it  up. 

A  lemon  poflet  is  made  in  the  fame  manner. 

fVine  Posset.  Boil  the  crumb  of  a  penny  loaf  in  a 
quart  of  milk  till  it  is  foft,  then  take  it  oflTthe  fire,  and 
grate  in  half  a  nutmeg ;  put  in  fbgar  to  your  tafte  j  then 
put  ii  in  a  china  bowl,  and  put  in  by  degrees  a  pint  of 

Liiboa 


rfo  POSSETS. 

liflxm  wine.    Serve  it  up  with  toaft  and  butter  upon  m 
fine* 

Ak  Posset.  Put  a  little  white  bread  into  a  pint  of 
milky  and  fet  it  over  the  fire ;  then  put  fomc  nutmeg 
and  fugar  into  a  pint  of  a]e>  warm  it^  and  when  your 
milk  boils^  pour  it  upon  the  ale.  Let  it  (land  a  few 
minutes  to  dear^  and  the  curd  will  rife  to  the  top. 

A  JUjite-pot.  Take  two  quarts  of  milk,  eight  eggs, 
and  half  the  whites,  beat  up  with  a  little  rofe-watcr,  a 
nutmeg,  and  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  fugar ;  cut  a  penny 
loaf  \t[  very  thin  flices,  and  pour  milk  and  eggs  over. 
Put  a  litde  piece  pf  butter  on  the  top.  Bake  ic  half  an 
bour  in  a  flow  oven. 

A  Rice  fVhite-pot.  Boil  a  pound  of  rice  in  two  quarts 
cf  milk  till  it  is  tender  and  thick ;  beat  it  in  a  mortar 
with  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  fwcet  almonds  blanched; 
then  boil  two  quarts  of  cream,  with  a  few  crumbs  of 
white  bread, .  and  two  or  three  blades  of  mace  5  mix  it 
Well  with  eight  eggs,  and  a  little  rofe-water,  and  fwpeten 
to  your  taflre.  Cut  fome  candied  orange  or  citron  peels 
thin,  and  lay  it  in.    It  muft  be  put  into  a  flow  oven. 

Sack  Posset.  Grate  three  Naples  bifcuits  to  one 
quart  of  cream,  or  new  milk ;  let  it  boil  a  litde,  fweeten 
it,  grate  Ibme  micmeg.  When  a  litde  cool,  pour  it 
high  from  a  tea-pot  to  a  pint  of  fack  a  litde  warmed^ 
and  put  it  into  a  bafon  or  deep  difh. 

Anather  way.    Beat  the  yolks  and  whites  of  fifteen 
eggs  very  well,  and  flrain  them ;   then  put  three  quar- 
ters of  a  pound  of  white  fugar  into  a  pint  of  canary,  and, 
mix  it  with  your  eggs  in  a  bafon ;  fet  it  over  a  chafing- 
dilh  of  coals,  and  keep  continually  ftirring  it  till  it  is 

fcald<- 


POTTING.  ttTt 

Icalding  hoL  In  the  mean  time,  grate  fome  nutmeg  ia 
a  quart  of  milk,  and  boil  it,  then  pour  it  into  your  eggs 
and  wine,  they  being  fcalding  hot.  Hold  your  hand 
▼cry  high  as  you  pour  it,  and  let  ibmebody  ftir  ic  afl 
the  time  you  are  pouring  in  the  milk ;  then  take  it  off 
the  chafing-diih,  fetjt  before  the  fire  half  an  hour,  and 
Ssrvc  it  up. 

Another  way.  Take  four  Naples  biicuits,  and  crum* 
ble  them  into  a  quart  of  new  milk,  when  ic  boiis«  Juft 
give  it  a  boil,  take  it  off,  grate  in  fbme  nutmeg,  and 
fwecten  to  your  palate;  then  pour  in  half  a  pintof  fack, 
ftirring  it  all  the  time,  and  ferve  it  up.  You  may,  if 
you  pleafe,  crumble  white  bread  inftead  of  bifcuit. 


POTTING. 

All  potted  articles  Ihould  be  well  covered  widi  butter 
before  they  are  fent  to  the  oven  ^  it  is  aUb  neceflary  to 
tie  them  over  with  (Irong  paper,  and  to  bake  them  well* 
When  your  meat  is  taken  from  the  oven,  pick  out  all 
the  ikins  quite  clean,  and  drain  the  meat  from  the  gravy, 
otherwife  the  ikins  will  appear  as  blemifiies,  and  the 
gravy  will  foon  turn  it  four.  Let  your  feafoning  be 
well  beat  before  you  put  in  your  meat,  and  put  it  in  by 
degrees  as  you  are  beating.  Prefs  your  meat  well  when 
you  put  it  in  your  pots,  and  let  it  be  quite  cold  before 
the  clarified  butter  is  poured  over  it. 

To  Pot  Beef  like  Fenifon.  Cut  the  lean  of  a  buttock 
of  beef  into  pound  pieces ;  for  eight  pounds  of  beef 
take  four  ounces  of  falt-petre,  a  pint  of  white  fait,  and 
aa  ounce  of  fal  prunella  i  beat  the  falts  all  very  fine, 

mix: 


«7d  p  o  r  T  I  N  A 

rnnx  them  wdl  tbgether^  rub  t^e  laltB  int^  the  beeT^ 
ihen  let  it  lie  four  dayi^  tumifig  it  twice  a  day;  then 
fHit  it  into  4  pan>  cover  it  witn  pump  watdr>  and  a  Iit-« 
de  of  its  own  brine  i  dien  bake  it  in  an  oven  with 
houlhokl  bread»  till  it  is  as  tender  as  a  chicken ;  take  it 
fionv  the  gravy»  bfuife  k  abroad,  and  take  out  all 
the  (kin  and  finews ;  then  p6und  it  in  a  marUe  mortar^ 
and  ky  it  in  a  broad  diih  $  mix  in  it  an  ounce  of  dOves 
ttd  mace»  three  quarters  of  an  ounce  of  pepper>  and 
•ne  nutmeg,  all  beat  very  fine.  Mix  it  all  very  weU 
with  the  meat)  then  ckrify  a  little  frefh  butter>  and  mA 
with  the  meat,  to  make  it  a  litde  dnoift  ^  mix  it  verf 
well  together,  pre&  it  down  into  pots  very  hard,  iet  it 
at  the  oven's  mouth  jufl:  to  fetde,  and  cover  it  two 
inches  thick  with  clarified  butter.  When  cold»  cover 
it  with  white  paper. 

To  POT  Venifon.  If  your  venlibn  happen  to  be  ftalct 
fub  it  with  vinegar,  and  let  it  lie  one  hour ;  then  dcf  it 
dean  with  a  cloth,  and  rub  it  all  over  widi  red  wine  i 
Ifeafbn  it  with  beaten  mace,  pepper,  and  fait  i  put  it  oh 
an  earthen  di(h,  and  pour  over  it  half  a  pint  of  red 
wine,  and  a  pound  of  butter,  and  fct  it  in  the  oven ; 
(if  it  be  a  fhoulder,  put  a  Coarfe  pafte  Over  it)  and 
bake  it  all  night.  When  it  comes  out,  pick  it  clean 
from  the  bones,  and  beat  it  in  a  marble  mortar,  with 
die  fat  from  your  gravy.  If  you  find  it  not  leafoned 
enough,  add  more  feafoning  and  clarified  butter,  and 
keep  beating  it  till  it  is  a  fine  pafle :  then  prefs  it  hard 
down  into  your  pots,  and  pour  clarified  butter. over  it;^ 
keep  it  in  a  dry  place. 

To  POT  a  Hdre.  Let  the  hare  hang  for  feme  days^ 
then  cut  it  int6  pieces,  bake  it,  with  a  little  \f^€f  m  the 

bot- 


p    O    T    T    I    N    Q.  fl73 

bottom  of  the  pan^  and  fome  butter  on  the  top ;  pick 
it  from  the  bones  and  finews^  and  beat  it  with  the  but* 
ter  from  the  top  of  the  gravy^  adding  enough  to  make 
it  very  mellow  -,  add  falt^  pepper^  and  pounded  cloves ; 
put  it  into  pots,  and  fet  it  a  few  minutes  in  a  flack  oven> 
pour  over  clarified  butter. 

Jnother  way.  Hang  up  your  hare  four  or  five  days 
.with  xht  ikin  on,  then  c^fe  it,  and  cut  it  in  quarters ; 
put  it  in  a  pot,  feafon  it  with  pepper,  fait,  and  mace  s 
put  a  pound  of  butter  over  it,  and  bake  it  four  hours. 
When  it  comes  out,  pick  it  from  the  bones,  and  pound 
it  in  a  nK)rtar  with  the  butter  that  comes  off  your  gravy, 
and  a  little  beaten  cloves  and  mace,  till  it  is  fine  and 
fmooth,  then  put  it  dole  down  in  potting-pots,  and  put 
clarified  butter  over  it  j  tie  it  over  with  white  paper. 

To  POT  Eels.  Skin  and  cleanfe  a  large  eel,  wafh  it 
very  clean,  dry  it  in  a  cloth,  and  cut  it  into  pieces  as 
long  as  your  finger.  Seaibn  them  with  a  litde  beaten 
mace  and  nutmeg,  pepper,  fait,  and  a  litde  fal  prunella 
beat  fine ;  lay  them  in  a  pan,  then  pour  as  much  good 
butter  over  them  as  will  cover  them,  clarified  as  above.  . 
When  they  are  baked,  lay  them  on  a  coarfe  cloth  to 
drain.  When  quite  cold,  feafon  them  again  with  the 
fame  feaibning,  and  lay  them  in  the  pot  cloie  j  then  take 
off  the  butter  they  were  baked  in  clear  from  the  gravy 
of  the  fifh,  and  fet  it  in  a  difh  before  the  fire :  when  it 
is  melted  pour  the  clear  butter  over  the  eels,  and  let 
them  be  well  covered  with  it. 

To  POT  Tongues,     Rub  a  neat's  tongue  with  an  ounc6 

of  fak-petre,  and  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  brown  fugar; 

let  it  lie  two  days,  and  then  boil  it  till  it  is  quite  tender; 

take  off  the  fkin  and  fide-bits,    cut  the  tongue  into 

Vol.  II.  »   N  n  very 


474  POTTING. 

very  thin  fliccs;  and  beat  it  in  a  marble  mortar,  with  ^ 
pound  of  clarified  butter,  pepper,  fait,  and  mace  to 
your  tafte*  Beat  the  whole  very  fine,  then  put  it  clofe 
dowii  into  fmall  potting-pots,  and  pour  clarified  butter 
over  them. 

To  POT  Lampreys.  Skin  them,  cleanfe  them  with 
iklt,  arid  then  wipe  them  dry ;  beat  fome  black  pepper, 
mace,  and  cloves  -,  mix  them  with  fait,  and  feafon  them* 
Lay  them  in  a  pan,  and  cover  them  with  clarified 
butter :  bake  them  an  hour.  In  other  refpefts,  ma- 
nage them  as  above  diredted  for  eels,  and  one  will  be 
enough  for  a  pot.  You  muft  feafon  them  well^ ;  lee 
your  butter  be  good,  and  they  will  keep  a  long  time. 

To  POT  Pigeons.     Seafon  your  pigeons  very  high  with 
pepper  and  fait,  put  them  into  a  pot  with  butter  ia 
lumps;  bake  them,  and  pour  off  the  fat  and  gravy; 
when  it  is  cold,  take  the  butter  from  the  top,  put  more 
to  it  s    clarify  it,  pour  it  over  the  pigeons,  put  fingly 
into  a  pot,  with  a  little  more  feafoning  added  to  them. 
Woodcocks  and  fnipes  are  done  in  the  fame  way. 
Motker  way    Pick  and  draw  your  pigeon,  cut  off  the 
pinions,  wafti  them  clean,  put  them  into  a  fieve  to  drain^ 
t;Jicn  dry  them  with  a  cloth,  and  feafon  them  with  pep- 
per and  fait ;  roll  a  lump  of  butter  in  chopped  parfley, 
and  put  it  into  the  pigeons :  few  up  the  vent,  then  put 
them  into  a  pot  with  butter  over  them ;  tie  them  down^ 
and  fct  them  in  a  moderately- heated  oven.     When  they 
arc  taken  out,  put  them  into  potting-pots,  and  cover 
them  well  with  clarified  butter. 

To  POT  Feal.     Take  part  of  a  knuckle  or  fillet  of 
veal  that  has  been  ftcwed,  or  bake  it  on  purpofe  for 
potting  >  beat  it  to  a  pafte  with  butter,  fait,  white  pep- 
per. 


P-    O    T    T    I    N    G.  ijs 

per,  and  mace  pounded;  prcfs  it  down  in  pots,  and 
pour  over  it  clarified  butter. 

Another  way.  Take  a  fillet  of  veal,  cut  it  into  three 
or  four  pieces,  feafoa  it  with  pepper,  fait,  and  a  little 
mace;  put  it  into  pots  with  half  a  pound  of  butter;  tie 
a  paper  over  it,  fet  it  in  a  hot  oven,  and  bake  it  three 
hours.  When  you  take  it  out,  cut  off  all  the  outfides, 
tlien  put  the  veal  into  a  marble  njortar,  and  beat  it  with 
the  fat  from  your  gravy ;  then  oil  a  pound  of  frefti  but-r 
ter,  and  put  it  in,  a  litde  at  a  time,  and  keep  beating 
it  till  you  fee  it  is  like  a  fine  pafte;  then  put  it  clofc 
down  into  your  potting-pots,  put  a  paper  upon  it,  and 
let  on  a  weight  to  prefs  it  hard.  When  your  veal  is 
cokl  and  ftiff,  pour  over  it  clariRed  butter,  the  thickneis 
of  a  crown  piece,  and  tie  it  down. 

7b  POT  Salnwn.  Scale,  walh, '  and  dry  a  falmon  that 
is  quite  quite  frefh ;  flit  it  up  the  back,  and  take  out  the 
bone;  mix  Ibme  grated  nutmeg,  mace,  pepper,  and 
felt,  and  flrew  over  the  fifti ;  let  it  lie  for  two  or  three 
hours,  then  lay  it  in  a  large  pot,  and  put  to  it  half  a 
pound  of  butter ;  put  it  in  an  oven,  and  let  it  bake  an 
hour:  when  it  is  done,  lay  it  on  fomething  fla,t,  that  the 
pil  may  run  from  it ;  then  cut  it  tOi  the  fize  of  the  pots 
it  \%  to  be  put  in,  lay  the  pieces  in  layers  till  the  pots  arc 
filled,  with  the  (kin  uppermoft ;  put  a  board  over  it, 
and  lay  on  a  weight  to  prefs  it  till  cold ;  then  take  the 
t>o^rd  and  weight  off,  and  pour  over  it  clarified  butter. 
It  may  be  fent  to  table  in  pieces,  or  cut  in  fliqes, 

To  POT  Moor  Game.  Pick  and  draw  them,  wipe  them 
clean,  and  let  them  be  well  feafoned  wid>  pepper,  fait, 
and  mace ;  put  one  leg  through  the  other,  roafl  them 
Vll  th^y  ^e  enoiJgh,  and  when  cold,  put  theih  into  pot- 

N  n  a  ting; 


ijS  POTATOES. 

dng-pota,    pour  clarified  butter  over  them,  and  kee|» 
them  in  a  dry  place. 


POTATOES. 

I 
a 

To  drefs  Potatoes.  Boil  them  in  as  littk  water  as  you 
can  without  burning  the  fauccpan ;  cover  the  &.ucepaa 
clofe^  and  when  the  Ikin  begins  to  crack,  they  are 
enough:  drain  all  the  water  out^  aiid  let  them  Hand 
-covered  for  a  mmute. 

To  fry  Potatoes.  Cut  your  potatoes  into  thm  ffices, 
as  large  as  a  crown  piece,  fry  them  brown,  lay  them  in 
the  plate  or  dilh,  pour  melted  butter  and  lack  and  fugar 
dv*  them.     Thefe .make  a  pretty  corner  plate. 

To  n^Jh  Potatoes.  Boil  them,  peel  them,  and  put. 
them  into  a  &ucepan  ;  mafh  them  well,  and  put  &  pint 
of  milk  to  two  pounds  of  potatoes ;  add  a  Htde  fait,  ftir 
them  well  together,  and  take  care  that  they  do  not  ftick 
to  die  bottom ;  then  take  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  butter, 
ftir  it  in,  and  ferve  it  up. 

Tofcollop  Potatoes.  Having  firft  boiled  your  pota- 
toes, beat  them  fine  in  a  bowl  with  good  cream,  and  a 
lump  of  butter  and  fait  5  put  them  into  fcollop  (hells, 
make  them  fmooth  on  the  top,  fcore  them  with  a  knifej 
lay  thin  flices  of  butter  on  the  top  of  them,  put  them  in 
a  Dutch  oven  to  brown  before  the  fire.  Three  fhells  is 
fufficient  for  a  dilh. 

Anothtr  xvay.  The  raeally  fort  ^re  beft.  Boil  them, 
beat  them  vciy  fine,  put  to  them  cream,  the  yolk  of  an 
egg,  pepper,  fait,  a  piece  of  butter :  do  not  make  them 
too  moift.  Fill  fbnrte  fcoUop-lhcUs,  fmooth  the  tops 
with  the  back  of  a  fpoon,  rub  them  over  with  a  little 
y6lk  of  egg,  fet  than  in  a  Dutch  oven  to  brown :  they 

viU 


POWDERS.  i77 

will  rife  before  Ae  fire^  and,  if  fticdy  done,  are  a  pretty 
Aipper  dUh.— ^— Sec  Pvddin^s. 


ri^ 


POWDERS, 

tke  heavier  chfs  of  powders  is  moft  conveniently 
taken  in  fyrups,  jeHy,  or  honey; — the  Kghter  fbf ts  may 
be  taken  in  tea,  water  gruei,  or  any  thin  liquid. 

Strengthening  Powder.  .  Take  of  alum  and  Japan 
carthj  each  two  dcams ;  pound  them  together,  and  di^ 
vide  them  into  ten  or  twelve  doles: — ^in  certain  diC- 
charges,  when  too  exceffive,  one  dofe  may  be  taken 
^vcry  hour  or  half  hour. 

Steel  Powder.  This  is  for  the  feme  purpofe  as  die 
above :— -Take  filings  of  fteel  and  loaf-ftigar,  each  two 
ounces ;  ginger,  two  drami;  s  mix  them  well  together : 
where  the  ufe  of /^^/ improper,  (ko^i/orJers  ofpybmen) 
a  tea-fpoonful  of  diis  powder  may  be  taken  twice  a  day, 
with  a  little  wine  after  it. 

'  Carminative  Powder.  Coriander  feeds,  half  an 
ounce  i  ginger,  one  dram ;  nutmegs,  half  a  dram ;  fin^ 
fligar,  a  dram  and  a  half.  Make  them  into  a  powder 
for  twelve  dofes. 

In  expelling  wind  arifing  from  indigeftion,  ^nd  in 
rnoft  hyfteric  and  hjrpochondriacal  qafes,  this  powder 
may  be  fafely  employed ;  and  may  alfo  be  given  in  fmall 
quantities  to  children  who  are  troubled  with  the  gripes. 

« 

Aromatic  opening  Powder.  Beft  Turkey  rhubarb, 
cinnamon,  and  fine  fugar,  each  two  drams  i  pound  the 
ingredients,  and  mix  them  well  afterwards. 

In  wind  accompanied  with  coftivenefs,  a  tea-lpoonful 

of  this  powder  may  be  taken  once  or  twice  a  day,  as 

circitmftances  render  ncceffary. 

-"      '  •  Sweats 


Tj^  POWDERS. 

Sweating  Powder.  Take  purified  nitre  and  vitrio- 
lated  tartar,  each  half  an  ounce ;  opium  and  ipecacu*^ 
anha,  each  one  dram :  mix  the  ingredients^  and  reduce 
riiem  to  a  fine  powder. 

In  obftinate  rhcumatifms,  and  other  cafes  where  it  ]% 
ncceflary  to  excite  a  copious  iweat,  this  powder  may  be 
given  in  the  dofe  of  a  fcruple,  or  half  a  dram ;  and  muft 
be  accompanied  with  a  plentiful  ufe  of  warm  diluting 
liquors. 

Cephalic^  or  SneezingPowDZK.  Take  of  afarnjn,  mar- 
joram, marum  fyriacum  leaves,  dried ;  lavender  flowers, 
•  dried ;  each  equal  weights :  rub  or  beat  them  together 
intb^a  fine  powder. — This  powder  is  equally  agreeable 
and  efficacious,  and  very  fuperior  to  thofc  compofition^ 
ibld'Sinder  the  name  of  herbfnuff. 

ff^rm  Powder.  Take  of  tin  reduced  inta  a  fiijc 
powder,  an  ounce ;  ^thiops  mineral,  two  drams  i  miiE 
them  well  together,  and  divide  the  whole  into  fix  dofes. 

One  of  thefe  powders  may  be  taken  in  a  little  fyrup, 
honey,  or  treacle,  twice  a  day:  and  after  they  have  been  all 
ufed,  givye  a  few  dofes  of  rhubarb  (x- jalap. — Sec  Worms* 

Reftorative  Powder.  Take  extraft  of  Peruvian  bark> 
twelve  grains ;  fait  of  fteel,  two  grains ;  oil  of  cinnamon^ 
one  drop;  fine  fugar,  half  a  dram.  Having  mixed  the 
oil  with  the  fugar,  add  the  other  ingredients,  and  grind 

the  whole  well  together  for  two  dofes. In  lax  habits, 

debilities  of  the  nervous  fyftem,  and  weaknefles  of  either 
fcx,  this  compofition  has  fingular  good  efitjds.. 

Chalk  Powder.  Take  white  chalky  pjrepared^  four 
ounces;  nutmeg,  half  a  dram;  ginnamon,  half  a  di:am : 
mix  them  into  a  powder. — ^For  weaknefs  or  acidity  of 
the  ftonaach,  heart  burn,  andfimilar  indilpofitions,  thi^s 

wiU 


PRESERVING.  fi;^ 

will  be  found  very  beneficial^  and  equal  to  more  coftly 
medicines. 

PREGNANCY.— See  Disorders  of  Womek. 


PRESERVING. 

Topreferve  Walnuts  white.  Pare  your  walnuts  till 
only  the  white,  appears,  and  be  Careful  in  doing  them 
that  they  do  not  turn  black,  and  as  faft  as  you  do  them 
throw  them  into  fait  and  water,  and  let  them  lie  till  your 
fugar  is  ready.  Take  three  pounds  of  good  loaf-fugar, 
put  it  into  your  preferving-pan,  fct  it  over  a  charcoal 
fire,  and  put  as  much  water  as  will  juft  wet  the  iug^. 
Let  it  boil,  then  have  ready  ten  or  twelve  whites  of  eggs 
drained  and  beat  up  to  froth ;  cover  your  fugar  wf th  a 
fioth  as  it  boils,  and  fkim  it;  then  boil  it,  and  Ikim  io 
till  it  is  as  clear  as  chryftal,  then  throw  in  your  walnuts, 
juft  give  them  a  boil  till  they  are  tender,  then  take  them 
out,  and  lay  them  in  a  di(h  to  cool ;  when  cool,  put  them 
in  your  preferving-pan,  and.  when  the  fugar  is  as  warm 
as  milk,  pour  it  over  them.  When  quite  cold,  paper 
chem  down. 

Thus  clear  your  fugar  for  all  preferves,  apricots, 
peaches,  goofeberries,  currants,  &c. 

To  preferve  Walnuts  black.  Take  walnuts  of  the 
imaller  kind,  put  them,  in  fait  and  water,  and  change 
the  water  every  day  for  nine  days ;  then  put  them  in  a 
fieve,  and  let  them  ftand  in  the  air  till  they  begin  to 

■ 

turn  black.  Put  them  into  a  jug,  pour  boiling  water 
over  them,  and  let  them  ftand  till  the  next  day :  then 
put  them  into  a  fieve  to  d^ain,  ftick  a  clove  in  each  end 
of  your  walnut,  put  them  into  a  pan  of  boiling  water, 

and 


«gO  T*  R  E  S  E  R  V  I  N  G. 

tnd  let  them  hokl  five  miautes.  Make  a  thin  iynip,  and 
fcald  them  in  it  three  or  four  times  a  day^  till  your  wal- 
nuts are  black  and  bright.  Make  a  thick  fyrup  with  a 
lew cbvies,  and  a  Uttle ginger  cut  in  (Ucest  ildm kwell, 
put  in  your  wahiuts,  boil  them  five  or  fix  minutes^  and 
then  put  them  into  your  jars,  Ljry  brandy-paper  over 
themj  and  tie  them  down  doTe  with  a  bladder.  They 
will  eat  better  the  fecond  year  after  their  keeping  than  in 
the  &r%  as  their  bitcemefs  goes  ofi^  with  time. 

To  prifervi  Wai-kuts  gran.  GtU^er  your  walnuts 
when  they  are  not  much  larger  than  a  good  nutmeg, 
wipe  them  very  clean,  and  lay  them  in  ftrong  fait  fund 
watfjr  twenty-four  hours  j  then  take  them  out,  and  wipe 
them  very  clean  i  have  ready  a  ftewpan  of  boiling  water, 
throw  them  in>  let  them  boil  a  minute,  and  take  them 
out  I  lay  them  on  a  coarfe  cloth,  and  boil  your  fugar  a$ 
direded  for  the  white  walnuts ;  then  jufl  give  your  wal- 
nuts a  fcald  in  the  fugar,  take  them  up,  and  lay  them 
to  cooL  Put  them  in  your  prcferving-pot,  and  pour  oa 
-your  fyrup. 

Topreferve  Barberries  far  Tarts.  Take  female  bar- 
berries, and  add  to  them  their  weight  in  fugar,  put  them 
into  a  jar,  and  fct  them  in  a  kettle  of  boiling  water  till 
the  fugar  is  melted,  and  the  barberries  are  beconie  quite 
loft  i  the  next  day  put  them  into  a  prcferving^pan,  and 
boil  them  a  quarter  of  an  hour  j  then  put  them  in  jars, 
a^  keep  them  in  a  place  that  is  dry  and  cool. 

Topreferve  Oranges  whole.  Get  the  beft  Bermudas 
or  Seville  oranges,  pare  them  very  thin  with  a  penkmfe, 
and  iay  your  oranges  in  water  three  gur  four  days,  fhift- 
ing  them  every  day ;  then  put  them  in  a  kettle  with  fair 
Water,  and  put  a  board  on  them  to  keep  them  down  in 

the 


T 


P  R  E  S  E  R  V  I  NO.  a8i 


tke  water,  and  have  a  Ikilkc  on  the  fire  Midth  water»  that 
may  be  ready  to  fupply  the  kettle  with  boiling  water ;  as 
it  waftes,  it  muft  be  filled  up  three  or  four  times  while 
the  oranges  are  doing,  for  they  will  take  up  feven  or 
eight  hours  boiling  -,  they  muft  be  boiled  till  a  white 
draw  will  run  through  them,  then  take  them  up  and 
tcoop  the  feeds  out  of  them  very  carefully^  by  making 
a  little  hole  in  the  top ;  then  weigh  them>  and  to  every 
pound  of  oranges^  put  a  pound  and  three  quarters  of 
double-refined  fugar,  beat  well^  and  fifted  through  a 
clean  lawn  fieve  -,  fill  your  oranges  with  fugar^  and  ftrew 
Ibme  on  them.  Let  them  lie  a  little  while,  and  make 
your  jelly  thus :— Take  two  dozen  pippins  of  john-ap- 
lesj  and  ilice  them  into  water,  and  when  they  are  boiled 
tender,  ftrain  the  liquor  from  the  pulp,  and  to  every 
pound  of  cH'anges  you  muft  have  a  pint  and  a  half  of  this 
liquor^  and  put  to  it  three  quarters  of  the  fugar  you  left 
in  filling  the  oranges ;  (et  it  on  the  fire,  and  let  it  boil ; 
Ikim  it  well,  and  put  it  in  a  clean  earthen  pan  till  it  is 
cold,  then  put  it  in  your  Ikillct  -,  put  in  your  oranges  j 
with  a  fmall  bodkin  job  your  oranges  as  they  are  boil- 
ing, to  Jet  the  fyrup  into  them  j  ftrew  on  the  reft  of 
your  fugar  while  they  are  boiling,  and  when  they  look 
clear,  take  them  up,  and  put  them  in  your  glafles  j  put  4 

each  one  in  a  glafs  juft.  fit  for  it,  and  boil  the  fyrup  tiU  -*  ^ 

almoft  a  jelly,    then  fill  up  your  glaffes :   when  they 
are  cold,  paper  them  up,  and  keep  them  in  a  dry  place. 

To  preferve  Oranges  carved.  Get  fome  fine  Seville 
oranges,  cut  the  rinds  with  a  penknife  in  what  form  you 
pleafe,  draw  out  the  part  of  your  peel  as  you  cut  them^ 
and  put  them  into  fait  and  hard  water  i  let  them  ftand 
&r  three  days  to  take  out  the  bitter,  then  boil  them  an 

Vol.  II.  O  o  hour 


' 


28a   .  PRESERVING. 

hour  in  a  large  faueepan  of  frefh  water^  with  fak  m  k, 
but  do  not  cover  cheiHj  as  it  will  Ipoil  the  colour ;  dien 
take  them  out  of  the  fait  and  watcr^  and  boil  them  ten 
minutes  in  a  thin  fyrup  fi)r  four  or  five  days  together  ; 
then  put  them  into  a  deep  jar,  let  them  ftand  two 
months  j  afterwards  make  a  thick  fyrup,  and  juft  give 
them  a  boil  in  it ;  let  them  ftand  till  the  next  day,  then 
put  them  in  your  jar,  with  brandy-papers  over  5  tie 
thein  down  with  a  bladder,  and  keep  them  for  ufe. 

You  may  preferve  whole  oranges,  without  carving, 
the  lame  way,  only  do  not  let  them  boil  fo  long,  and 
keep  them  in  a  very  thin  fyrup  at  firft,  or  it  will  make 
them  flirink  and  wither.  Always  obicrve  to  put  fait  in 
the  water  for  either  oranges  preferved,  or  any  kmd  of 
orange  chips. 

To  preferve  Morel  Cherries.  Gather  your  cherries 
when  they  are  ripe,  take  off  the  ftalks,  and  prick  them 
with  a  pin.  To  every  pound  of  cherries,  put  a  pound 
and  a  half  of  loaf-fugar.  Beat  part  of  your  fugar,  ftrew 
it  over  them,  and  let  them  ftand  all  nig^t.  Diifolve 
the  reft  of  your  fugar  in  half  a  pint  of  the  juice  of  cur- 
rants, fct  it  over  a  flow  fire,  and  put  in  the  cherries 
with  the  fugar,  and  give  them  a  gentle  (cald  %  then  take 
them  carefully  out,  boil  your  fyrup  till  it  is  thick,  and 
pour  it  upon  your  cherries. 

Jnother  way.  Stone  your  cherries,  and  to  one  pound 
of  them,  allow  ori^  pound  of  fugar,  and  half  a  pint  of 
water,  with  which  make  a  fyrup,  well  boiled  and  fldm- 
med  \  put  in  the  cherries,  give  them  a  fcald  \  the  next 
day  boil  them  on  a  flow  fire  till  they  look  clear :  when 
cold,  lay  a  paper  on  them,  let  them  ftand  ail  night,  then 
boil  and  fldm  half  a  pint  of  currant-juice  (half  red,  half 

white) 


PRESERVING.  aSj 

white)  aod  a  pound  of  fogar ;  warm  the  cherries,  put 
diem  into  this>  with  more  than  a  quarter  of  a  pint  of  the 
Srft  fyjTup,  in  proportion  to  each  pound  of  cherries ;  juft 
boil  them  in  this,  ftir  them  gendy  till  cool;  cover  them 
with  brandy-paper. 

To  preferve  Green-^gage  Plums.  Gather  fome  of  your 
fineft  plums  juft  before  they  are  ripe,  and  put  them  into 
a  pan  with  a  layer  of  vine  leaves  und^  them,  then  put 
a  layer  of  vine  leaves  over  them,  and  a  layer  of  plums 
on  them,  and  proceed  in  the  fame  manner  till  your  pan 
is  almoft  fuU,  then  fill  it  with  water,  and  (et  them  on  a 
flow  fire :  when  they  are  hot, '  and  the  flcins  begin  to 
rife,  take  them  ofi^  take  the  (kins  carefully  off,  and  put 
them  on  a  (ieve  as  you  do  them ;  then  lay  them  in  the 
fame  water,  with  a  layer  of  leaves  as'  before  -,  cover  them 
clofe,  that  no  fteam  may  get  out,  and  hang  them  a  con*- 
fiderable  diftance  from  the  fire  till  they  appear  green> 
which  will  be  five  or  fix  hours,  or  longer ;  then  take 
them  carefully  up,  lay  them  on  a  hair  fieve  to  drain, 
make  a  good  fyrup,  boil  them  gently  in  it  twice  a  day 
for  two  days,  then  take  them  out,  and  put  them  into  a 
fine  clean  fyrup ;  cover  them  with  brandy-paper,  and 
keep  them  for  ufe. 

To  preferve  white  Citrons.  Having  cut  fome  white 
citrons  inco^  pieces,  put  them  into  fait  and  water,  and  let 
diem  remain  there  four  or  five  hours,  then  take  them 
01^  and  walh  them  in  dean  water;  boil  them  till  they 
are  tender,  drain  them,  and'  cover  them  with  clarified 
iugar ;  after  letdng  them  (land  twenty-fours,  drain  the 
iyrup  and  boil  it  fmooth :  when  cold,  put  in  die  citronifl^ 
auid  let  them  ftaiid  till  the  next  day  -,  then  boil  the  fyrup 
iquite  finoodi^  and  pour  it  over  the  citrons ;  boil  all  to* 

.      O  0  2  gerfif  r 


iU  P  R  fe  S  E  R  V  I'N  G- 

gedler  the  next  day,  and  put  chcm  into  a  pot  lo  be 
died,  or  into  jellies. 

To  freJirvehtMoss.     Pare  jour  lemom  vtry  thin, 
then  make  a  round  hole  on  the  top,  of  the  fise  of  a 

(hilling,  and  cake  ouc  all  the  pulps  and  fkins.  Rub 
them  with  falc^  and  put  them  in  fpring  water  a$  jou  do 
them,  which  will  prevent  their  turning  Mack  j  kt  them 
tie  in  it  five  or  fix  days^  and  then  boil  them  in  Mh  filt 
and  w^ter  fifteen  minutes :  have  ready  made  a  thin  fyrup^ 
of  ^  quart  of  water  and  a  pound  of  loaf-fitgar ;  boil  them 
in  it  for  five  minutes  once  a  day,  for  fbur  or  fii^  days, 
and  then  put  them  in  a  large  jar :  let  them  ftaad  fer  fix 
dr  eight  weeks,  and  it  will  make  them  look  dear  and 
plump;  thefi  take  them  ouc  of  that  iynip,  or  dtey  will 
moulds  Make  a  f^rup  of  fine  fugar,  put  aa  much  i»a^ 
ter  to  it  as  wiU  difTolve  it,  boit  and  fkim  it ;  theft  put  iit 
your  kmons,  and  boil  them  gendy  till  they  are  clwff ; 
put  them  into  ajar,  with  brandy-paper  over  them>  «nd 
tie  them  down  ctofe. 
.  Toprefeii've  Eringo  Roots.  Parboil  fome  cnngo  roots 
mU  they  are  tender,  peel  them,  walh  them,  and  dry 
them  with  a  cloth,  and  cover  them  with  clarified  fiigar ; 
boil  them  gently  till  they  look  clear,  and  the  fyrup  fccmi 
to  be  thickifli  i  put  them  up  when  half  cold. 

Currants  preferved  in  Jelfy.  Clip  your  currants 
from  the  flraiks,  cut  ofF  the  black  top,  and  ftone  them. 
To  tyery  pound  of  fruit,  add  two  pounds  of  fugar,and 
boil  it  till  it  blows  very  ftrong :  put  in  the  currants,  and 
fet  them  boil.  Take  them  fi-om  the  fire,  let  them  Hand 
to  fettle,  then  let  them  boil  again :  put  in  a  pint  of  air- 
rant  jelly,  let  it  all  Cmmer  a  little,  then  take  itfitjm 
the  fire.     Let  it  fettle  a  little,  Ikim  it :  when  cold,  put 

it 


F  RE  SER  V  I  N"G.  185 

k  into  glafibs.      Take  care  to  difperfe  the  currants 
equally. 

To  prefervi  CtntRAkTs  for  Tarts.  Put  a  pound  of 
ftigar  into  a  prdeifvkig-pan;  for  every  pound  and  a 
quarter  of  currant^  with  a  fufficient  quantity  of  juice  <rf 
currants  to  diflbhre  the  fuga ;  when  it  boils,  ftim  it, 
and  put  in  your  Currants,  and  boil  them  till  Aey  art:  very 
clear.  Put  them  into  a  jar,  cover  them  with  brandy- 
paper,  and  keep  them  in  a  dry  place. 

To  prefirve  Raspbbrries,    If  you  intend  to  prdcrvc 
the  red  fort  of  raipberries,  gather  them  on  a  dry  day, 
when  they  are  juft  turning  red,  with  the  ftalks  on  about 
an  inch  long  j  lay  them  fingly  on  a  diih,  beat  and  fift 
their  weight  of  double-refined  fugar,  and  ftrew  it  over 
them.    To  eveiy  quart  of  rafpberries,  take  a  quart  of 
red  currant  jelly,    and  put  to  it  it^  weight  of  dou- 
ble-refined fugar :  boil  and  Ikim  it  well,  then  put  in* 
your  rafpberries,  and  give  them  a  fcald.     Take  them 
off,  and  let  them  ftand  for  two  hours ;  then  fet  them  on 
again,  and  make  them  a  litde  hotter;  proceed  hi  this 
manxter  two  or  three  rimes  till  they  look  clear ;  but  take 
care  to  prevent  their  boilings  as  that  win  ogcafion  the 
ftalks  to  come  ofi^.     When  they  are  tolerably  cool,  put 
them  into  jefly-glafles,    with  the   ftalks  downwards. 
White  rafpberries  may  be  preferved  in  the  lame  manner, 
only  ufing  white  currant  jelly  inftead  of  red. 
Topreferve  Grapes. — See  Morel  Cherries. 
To  preferve  Golden  Pippins.     Pare  and  flicc  your 
pippins,  and  boil  them  in  fome  water  to  a  mafh,  run  the 
liquor  through  a  jelly-bag ;  put  two  pounds  of  loafu 
fugar  into  a  pan,  with  almoft  one  pint  of  water  5  boi! 
and  ikim  it  ^  put  in  twelve  pippins,   pared  and  cored 

^  with 


29$  PRESERVING. 

with,  a  fcoop,  and  the  peel  of  an  orange  cut  thin  5  let 
them  boil  £ift  till  the  lyrup  is  thick>  taking  them  off 
when  they  appear  to  part,  putting  them  on  the  fire  again 
nvhen  they  have  ftoodalittle  time;  then  put  inapiatof 
the  pippin-juice>  boil  them  fail  till  they  are  clear^  then 
take  them  out ;  boil  the  lyrup  as  much  more  as  is  nc* 
ceflary^  with  the  juice  of  a  lemon.  The  orange-peel 
muft  be  6rft  put  into  water  for  a  day^  then  boiled^  to 
take  out  the  bitternels. 

Tv  preferve  Green  Peas  till  Cbrijlmas.  Take  fine 
young  peas,  (hell  them,  throw  them  into  a  cullender  to 
drain,  then  lay  a  cloth  foiu*  or  five  times  double  on  a 
table,  and  ipread  tt^em  on,  dry  them  yery  well  and  have 
your  botdes  ready,  fill  them,  and  cover  them  with  mut- 
,  ^n  fuet ;  when  it  is  a  little  cool,  fill  the  necks  almoft  to 
the  top,  cork  them,  tie  a  bladder  and  a  lath  over  them 
«nd  fet  them  in  a  cool  dry  place. 

To  preferve  French  Beans  aU  the  Tear.  Take  young 
beans  gathered  on  a  dry  day,  have  a  Urge  fbne  jar 
ready,  put  a  layer  of  fait  at  the  bottom,  and  then  a  layer 
of  beans>  and  io  on  till  the  jar  is  full ;  cover  them  with 
fait  and  tie  a  coarfe  cloth  over  them,  and  a  board  on  the 
top,  and  then  a  weight  to  keep  it  dole  from  the  air  s  fet 
them  in  a  dry  cellar,  and  when  you  ufe  them,  take  ibme 
out,  and  cover  them  up  again  i  wa(h  them,  you  take 
out  very  clean,  and  let  them  lie  in  foft  water  twenty-four 
hours,  fhifting  the  water  often  i  when  you  boil  thenri  do 
not  put  any  fait  in  the  water. 

To  keep  white  BuUace^  Pears y  Plums,  or  Dam/ens,  &c. 
for  Tarts  or  Pies.  Gather  them  when  full  grown,  and 
juft  as  they  begin  to  turn.  Pick  all  the  largeft  oitt, 
fave  about  two  thirds  of  the  fruit,  to  the  other  third  put 


n    > 


PRESERVING.  287 

is  much  water  as  you  think  will  cover  them^  boil  and 
ikim  them;  when  the  fitiit  is  boiled  foft,  ftrain  it 
through  a  coarie  hair  fieve^  and  to  every  quart  of  this 
liquor  put  a  pound  and  a  half  of  fugar^  boil  it  and  ikim 
ity  dien  throw  in  your  fruity  juft  gi\ne  them  a  fcald^  take 
them  oflf  the  firej  and  when  cold  put  them  into  botdes 
with  wide  mouths>  pour  your  iyrup  over  them^  lay  a 
piece  of  white  paper  over  them  and  cover  them  with 
oiL 

Topreferve  GoosmKKi-gs  whole  without ftoning.  Take 
die  largeft  preferving  goofeberries^  and  pick  oiF  the 
black  eye,  but  not  the  ftalk ;  then  fet  them  over  the  fire 
in  a  pot  of  water  to  fcald,  cover  them  very  clofe,  but  not 
to  boil  or  breaks  and  when  they  af  e  tender,  take  them  up 
into  cold  water ;  then  take  a  pound  and  a  half  of  dou 
ble-refined  fugar  to  a  pound  of  goofeberries,  and  clarify 
the  fugar  with  water,  a  pint  to  a  pound  of  fugar,  and 
when  your  fyrup  is  cold,  put  the  goofeberries  lingle  in 
your  preferving-pan,  put  the  fyrup  to  them,  and  fet  them 
on  a  gende  fire ;  let  them  boil,  but  not  too  faft,  left 
they  break  i  and  when  they  have  boiled,  and  you  per- 
ceive that  the  fugar  has  entered  them,  take  them  ofi^ 
cover  them  with  white  paper,  and  fet  them  by  till  the 
next  day.  Then  take  them  out  of  the  fyrup,  and  boil 
the  fugar  dll  it  begins  to  be  ropy  i  fkim  it,  and  put  it  to 
them  again,  then  fet  them  on  a  gentle  fire,  and  let  them 
fimmer  fbfdy  till  you  perceive  the  fyrup  will  ropci, 
then  take  them  off,  fet  them  by  till  they  arc  cold,  cover 
them  with  paper ;  then  boil  ibme  goofeberries  in  fair 
water,  and  when  the  liquor  is  ftroi^  enough,  ftrain  it 
out :  let  it  fland  to  fetde,  and  to  every  pint  take  a  pound 
of  double-refined  fugar,  then  make  a  jelly  of  it;  put 

the 


t»  PUDDING    6. 

the  goofebcrrics  in  glaflb  wh^h  they  arc  cojd  i  cover 
them  with  the  jdly  the  next  day,  paper  them  wet,  and 
then  half  dry  the  paper  that  goes  in  the  infide,  it  clofes 
down  better,  and  then  white  paper  over  the  glsik  Set  ia 
yoiir  ftovc,  or  a  dry  pUcc. 

?(7 /r^r^r  Damascenes,  Pick  tlie  damafcenes  off 
the  ftalks>  and  prick  them  with  a  pin,  then  put  them 
into  a  deep  pot,  and  with  them  half  their  weight  of 
pounded  loaf-fugar  i  fet  them  in  a  moderate  oven  tiU 
diey  are  foft,  then  take  them  o(F  and  give  the  fyrvtp  a 
boil,  and  pour  it  upon  them.  Having  done  ib  two  or 
three  times^  take  them  carefully  out,  and  piit  them  into 
the  jars  you  intend  to  keep  them  in ;  then  pour  over 
them  rendered  nmitton  fuet,  tic  a  bladder  over  thein» 
and  keep  them  for  ufe  in  a  very  cool  place. 


PUDDINGS. 

In  boiled  puddings,  particular  care  is  recjuired  that 
the  cloth  be  clean,  and  remember  to  dip  it  in  boiling 
water,  let  it  be  well  ftoured,  and  give  your  cloth,  a  fhake* 
If  it  is  a  bread  pudding,  tie  it  loofc;  if  a  batter-pud^ 
ding,  tie  it  clofe ;  and  never  put  your  pudding  in  till 
the  water  boils.  If  you  bml  in  a  bafon,  butter  it,  an4 
boil  it  in  pknty  of  water,  without  covering  the  pan, 
and  turn  it  often.  When  it  is  enough,  take  it  up  in  the 
bafon,  let  it  (land  a  few  minutes  to  cool,  then  untie  the 
ftring,  wrap  the  cloth  round  the  bafon,  lay  your  difli 
over  it,  and  turn  the  pudcling  out ;  then  take  off  the 
baSxi  and  cloth  with  great  care,  otherwife  a  Ught  pud* 
ding  is  liable  to  be  broken  in  turnii^  out.     When  you 

mak^ 


P    U    b    b    1    N    G    S*  ?89 

tanake  a  batter-pudding,  firft  mix  the  floiir  well  with  a 
little  milkj  then  gradually  put  in  the  ingredients,  by 
which  means  it  will  be  perfeftly  fmooth  and  without 
lumps.  But,  for  a  plain  batt'er-puddingi  the  beft  me- 
thod is  to  flrain  it  through  a  coarie  hair  fieve>  that  it 
may  neither  have  lumps  nor  the  treadles  of  the  eggs ; 
and  for  all  other  puddings,  ftrain  the  eggs  when  you 
beat  them.  With  refpcft  to  baking  all  bread  and 
cuftard  puddings  require  time,  and  a  moderate  oven^ 
that  will  raife  and  not  burn  them.  Batter  and  rice 
puddings,  a  quick  oven.  Be  particularly  careful  to 
butter  the  pan  or  difh  before  you  put  in  your  pudding. 

To  make  a  Bread  Pudding.  Put  a  quarter  of  a  pound 
of  butter  into  a  pint  of  cream,  fet  it  on  the  fire  and 
keep  it  ftirringi  the  butter  being  melted,  put  in  as 
much  grated  manchet  as  will  make  it  light,  a  nutm*g 
or  fome  other  fpice,  and  as  much  fugar  as  you  plea(e» 
riiree  or  four  eggs  and  fome  fait,  mix  them  together^ 
butter  a  difh,  then  put  it  in  and  bake  it  half  an  hour.  . 

A  boiled  Bread  Pudding.  Take  a  pound  of  the. 
crumbs  of  French  rolls,  boil  a  pint  of  new  milk  and 
pour  upon  it ;  take  the  yolks  of  feven  eggs,  and  the 
whites  of  three,  beat  very  well,  and  mix  with  the  milk 
and  bread ;  grate  in  a  little  nutmeg,  butter  your  doth, 
pour  in  your  pudding,  tie  it  up  tight,  and  boil  it  an 
hour  :  for  fauce  plain  butter. 

A  Bread  and  Butter  Pudding.  Take  a  penny  FrenqH 
roll  two  days  old,  cut  off  all  the  cruft,  and  cut  thl{ 
crumb  into  thinflices,  fpreading  it  as  you  cut  it  very 
thin  with  butter  on  ea^  flice  \  then  take  a  quarter  of  9 
pound  of  raifins  ftoned,  half  a  pound  of  currants  well 
walhed  and  picked  >  then  lay  a  layer  of  bread  and  but^ 

Vol.  II.  P  p  ter. 


a$o  PUDDINGS. 

tcr,  and  upon  that  fruit  in  a  pudding-di(hj  fo  cover  die 
fruit  with  the  buttered  bread,  «id  when  it  i»  diQx>fed  of 
into  your  difti,  beat  up  five  eggs  with  a  quart  of  ncvr 
itiilk,  fwcctcn  it  to  your  tafte,  ahd  put  to  it  a  glafs  of 
rofc-watcr,  pour  it  into  the  dilh  upon  the  bread  and 
fruit,  and  bake  it  an  hour. 

To  make  a  tight  Puddiwg.  To  a  pint  of  cream  put 
tome  dinnamon,  mace,  and  nutmeg,  boil  it  with  the 
fpicc,  when  it  is  boiled  take  out  the  Ipice,  then  take  out 
the  yolks  of  eight  eggs  and  four  of  the  whites ;  beat 
them  well  with  fbme  iack,  then  mix  them  with  your 
cream,  ibme  fak  and  fugar,  take  a  halfpenny  white  loaf 
and  a  (poonfiil  of  flour,  dien  put  in  fome  rofc-watcr, 
beat  all  thefe  well  together,  and  wet  a  thick  cloth  and 
flour  it,  then  put  your  pudding  into  it  and  tie  it  up, 
and  Ivhen  the  pot  boils,  it  mufl  boil  an  hour.  Melt 
fome  butter,  fack,  and  fugar,  and  pour  oyer  it. 

Jpj^  Pudding.  Take  four  or  five  codlings,  foald 
them  and  bruife  them  through  a  fieve,  put  a  quarter  of 
a  pound  of  bifcuits,  fome  nutmeg,  a  pint  of  aeam,  and 
fweeten  to  your  tafte,  ten  eggs  and  half  the  whites,  to 
bake. 

-rf  baked  Jpple  Pudding.  Boil  half  a  pound  of  ap- 
ples, and  potind  them  well  j  take  half  a  pound  of  butter 
beaten  to  a  cream,  mix  it  with  the  apples  before  they 
are  cold;  add  fix  eggs,  with  the  whites,  well  beaten 
and  ftrained,  half  a  pound  of  fugar  pounded  and  fifted, 
the  rinds  of  two  lemons  well  boiled  and  beaten ;  fift  the 
peel  into  clean  water  twice  in  the  boiling ;  put  a  thin 
cruft  in  the  bottom  and  rims  of  your  difli.  It  will  take 
half  an  hour  to  bake  it.— See  Afplss^ 

An 


PUDDINGS.  a9X 

I 

-  jIh  J^rkot  PvDDiuo.  Pare  ten  or  twelve  apricots  i 
icaldj  Aone^  and  bruife  them  j  put  a  pint  of  boiling 
cream  to  the  crumb  of  a  penny-loaf  ghaced;  when  cok^ 
add  the  yolks  of  four  eggs^  fugar  to  the  tafte,  aixi  a  lit- 
tle bnndy  or  a  gla(s  of  Madeira.  Bake  it  half  an  hpur^ 
with  puflF-pafte. 

Grren  Codling  Puodino.  Green  about  a  quart  of 
codlings  as  for  a  pie,  rub  them  through  a  hair  fievex 
widi  as  much  c^  the  juice  of  beets  as  will  green  your 
puddings  put  in  the  crumb  of  half  a  penny-loa^  hs^n 
pound  of  butter,  and  diree  eggs  well  beaten  ;  beat  theni 
all  together  with  half  a  pound  of  fugar^  and  two  ipooo^ 
fuls  of  cyder.  Lay  a  good  pafte  round  the  rim  of  tbp 
diihy  and  pour  it  in. 

{jrixfebirry  Puddikg.  Scald  a  pint  of  green  gopie- 
berriesj  and  rub  them  through  a  fieves  put  to  them 
half  a  pound  of  fugar^  and  an  equal  quandty  of  butter^ 
two  or  three  Naples'  bifcuits,  and  four  eggs  well  beateoi 
mix  it  well>  bake  it  half  an  hour. 

wf  Grateful  Pudding.  Take  a  poimd  of  fine  flour^ 
and  a  pound  of  white  bread  grated  j  take  eight  eggs^ 
with  half  the  whites,  beat  them  up,  and  mix  with  them 
a  pmt  of  milk  i  then  ftir  in  the  bread  and  flour,  a  pound 
of  raifins  fioned,  a  pound  of  currants,  half  a  pound  of 
fugar,  a  little  beaten  ginger ;  mix  all  well  together^  and 
either  bake  or  boil  it.  It  will  take  three  quarters  of  an 
hour  baking.  Put  in  cream,  if  you  have  it,  inflead  of 
milks  the  pudding  will  be  much  improved  by  it. 

4  Hafiy  Pudding.  Take  a  pint  of  cream,  and  a 
pint  of  miJk,  a  little  fait,  and  fweeten  it  with  loaf-fugar^ 
make  it  boil  \  then  put  in  fbnie  fine  Sour,  and  keep  it 
continually  ftirring  while  the  flour  is  putting  in^  till  it  is 

Pp  %  thick 


a^t  PUDDINGS. 

thick  enough ;  when  boiled  enough,  pour  it  out^  and 
ftick  the  tops  full  of  little  bits  of  butter.  It  may  be 
eaten  with  lugar  or  fak. 

Jnothen  Put  four  bay-leaves  into  a  quart  of  milky 
and  fet  it  on  die  fire  lo  boil  j  then  beat  up  the  yolks  of 
two  eggs,  and  ftir  in  a  little  fait.  Take  two  or  three 
Ipoonfuls  of  milk  and  beat  up  with  your  eggs,  and  flir 
in  your  milk ;  then  with  a  wooden  fpoon  in  one  hand, 
and  the  flour  in  the  other,  ftir  it  in  till  it  is  of  a  good 
thicknefs,  but  not  too  thick.  Let  it  boil,  and  keep  it 
-ftirring ;  then  pour  it  into  a  dilh,  and  ftick  pieces  of 
•butter  here  and  there.  You  may  omit  the  eggs  j  but 
they  are  a  great  addition  to  the  pudding.  A  little  piece 
of  butter  ftirred  in  the  milk  makes  it  eat  ftiort,  and 
much  improves  it.  Take  out  the  bay-leaves  before 
you  put  in  the  flour. 

<  Herb  Pudding.  Of  Ipinach,  beet,  parfley,  and 
leeks,  take  each  a  handful ;  wafli  them  and  fcald  them, 
then  (hred  them  very  fine ;  have  ready  a  quart  of  groats 
fteeped  in  warm  water  half  an  hour,  and  a  pound  of 
hogs'-lard  cut  in  little  bits,  three ^  onions  chopped 
fmall,  and  three  fage- leaves  hacked  fine ;  put  in  a  little 
fait,  mix  all  well  together,  and  tie  it  clofe  up.  It  will 
require  to  be  taken  up  in  boiling  to  loofen  the  ftrtng  a 
litde. 

A  Hunting  Pudding.  Mix  a  pound  of  flour  with  a 
pint  of  cream,  and  eight  eggs  that  havfr  been  well 
beaten,  a  pound  of  beef  fuet,  the  fame  of  currants,  have 
a  pound  of  raifins  ftoned  and  chopped,  two  ounces  of 
candied  citron,  two  ounces  of  candied  orange  cut  fmall> 
a  nutmeg,  and  a  glafs  of  brandy. 

An 


PUDDINGS.  apj 

An  Italian  Pudding.  Take  a  pint  of  cream,  and 
ilice  in  fome  French  rolls,  as  much  as  you  think  will  . 
m^e  it  thick  enough ;  beat  ten  eggs  fine,  grate  a  nut- 
meg, butter  the  bottom  of  the  dilb,  flicc  twelve  pippins 
into  it,  throw  fome  orange-peel  and  fugar  over,  and 
half  a  pint  of  red  wine  j  then  pour  your  cream,  bread, 
and  eggs  over  it  j  firft  lay  a  pufF-pafte  at  the  bottom  of 
the  dilh,  and  round  the  edges,  and  bake  it  half  aa 
hour. 

A  Lemon  Puddzno.  Take  three  lemons  and  grate 
tfic  rinds  off,  beat  up  twelve  yolks  and  fix  whites  of 
eggs,  put  in  half  a  pint  of  cream,  half  a  pound  of  fine 
fugar,  a  little  orange  flower  water,  a  quarter  of  a  pound 
of  butter  melted.  Mix  all  well  together,  iqueeze  in  the 
juice  of  two  lemons ;  put  it  over  the  fiove>  and  keep 
ftirring  it  till  it  is  thick ;  put  a  puff-pafte  round  the  rith 
of  the  difh,  put  in  pudding-ftuff,  with  fome  candied 
iweetmeats  cut  fmall  over  it,  and  bake  it  three  q\|^ei;i 
of  an  hour. 

Another.  To  a  pound  of  flour,  well  dried  and  fiftedj 
put  a  pound  of  fine  fugar  beat  and  fifted,  the  rind  of  a 
lemon  grated,  twelve  eggs,  the  yolks  beat  a  litde  by 
themfelves,  and  the  whites  beat  till  they  are  all  fi-oth  ; 
then  gendy  mix  all  together,  put  it  in  a  pan,  and  bake 
k  half  an  hour. 

A  Marrow  Pudding.  Grate  a  penny-loaf  into 
q-umbs,  and  pour  on  them  a  pint  of  boiling-hot  cream. 
Cut  very  thin  a  pound  of  beef-marrow,  beat  four  eggs 
well,  and  then  add  a  glafs  of*  brandy,  with  fugar  and 
nutmeg  to  your  tafle.  Mix  them  all  well  together,  and 
cither  boil  or  bake  it.    Three  quarter;  of  an  hour  will 

de 


S9«  PUDDING& 

do  it.    Cut  two  ounces  of  citron  very  thin ;  and  vhca 
jott  diih  it  up,  ftick  them  all  over  it. 

Another.  Take  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  ric^  half 
boil  it,  half  a  pound  of  marrow  fhred  very  iin^  a  quar- 
ter of  a  pound  of  raifins,  ftoned  and  chopped  imall^  with 
two  ounc^  of  currants^  beat  four  eggs  a  quarter  of  an 
Jiour>  mix  it  all  together,  widi  a  pint  of  good  cream,  a 
ipoonful  of  brandy,  and  fugar  and  nutmeg  to  your  tafte, 
Tou  may  either  bake  it,  or  put  it  into  ikins  for  hogV 
puddings. 

4  Millet  Pudding*  Spread  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of 
butter  at  the  bottom  of  a  difti ;  lay  into  it  £x  ounces  of 
millet,  and  a  quarter  ol  a  pound  of  fugar.  When  going 
4D  the  oven,  pour  over  it  three  pints  of  milk* 
(  Another. ^  Take  half  a  pound  of  millet-Iced,  waih  it, 
an4  pick  it  dean,  put  to  it  half  a  pound  of  ivfgar,  a 
iKboIe  nutmeg  grated,  and  duee  quarts  of  milk.  When 
you  have  mixed  all  well  together,  breadc  in  half  a  pound 
of  frclh  butter,  and  buuer  your  difh  i  pour  it  it^  ao4 
|>ake  k. 

Jm  Oat  PuDDiKO.  Take  two  pounds  of  oats  Ikinned, 
4uid  new  milk  enough  to  drown  it^  eight  ounces  of 
raifins  of  the  fun  ftoned>  the  fame  quantity  of  currants 
neady  picked ;  a  pound  of  fweet  fuet  finely  ibred,  fix 
new-laid  eggs  well  beat ;  feafbn  with  nutmeg,  beaten 
ginger,  and  iak ;  mix  it  all  well  toge Aer,  it  wiil  make 
an  excellent  pudding. 

An  Oat  mad  Pudding.  Boil  a  pint  of  fine  oatmeal 
in  three  pints  of  new  milk^  fiirring  it  till  it  is  as  thick  as 
^hafty-pudding ;  take  it  off*,  and  fkir  in  half  a  pound  of 
-freih  butter,  a  little  beaten  mace  and  nutmc;g,  and  a 
^il  of  fack  i  then  beat  up  eight  eggs,  half  the  whites^ 

tt\x 


] 


P    U    D    D    I    N.G    S:  25f 

ftir  all  well  together,  lay  pufF-pafte  all  over  tht  difh, 
pour  in  the  puddings  and  bake  it  Half  an  hxMr.  Or  you 
may  boil  it  with  a  few  currants. 

An  Orange  Pudding.  Take  the  rind  of  a  Seville 
orange,  boil  it  very  foft,  beat  it  in  a  marble  mortar, 
with  the  juice  j  put  to  it  two  Naples*  bifcuits  grated  very 
fine,  half  a  pound  of  butter,  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of 
fugar,  and  the  yolks  of  fix  eggs ;  mix  them  well  toge- 
ther j  lay  a  good  puflF-paftc  round  the  edge  of  your 
China  difh,  bake  it  in  a  gende  oven  half  an  hour.  You 
may  make  a  lemon  pudding  the  fame  way»  by  putting 
in  a  lemon  inftead  of  the  orange. 

J  Calfs  Foot  Pudding.  Boil  four  feet  tender ;  pick 
the  niceft  of  the  meat  from  the  bones,  and  chop  it  very 
fine ;  add  the  crumb  of  a  penny  -loaf  grated,  a  pound 
of  beef'fuet  ihred  fmall,  half  ^  pint  oi  cream,  feven 
cggs»  ^  pound  of  currants,  four  ounces  of  citron  cut 
fmall,  two  ounces  oPcandied  orange-peel  cut  like  £bniws» 
a  nutmeg,  and  a  large  gls^s  of  brandy.  Butter  the 
cloth  and  flour  it,  tie  it  clofe,  let  it  bdl  three  hours. 

When  you  take  the  pudding  up,  it  is  beft  to  put  it 
in  a  bowl  that  will  juft  hold  it^  and  let  it  ftand  a  quar- 
ter of  an  hour  before  you  turn  it  out ;  lay  your  difh 
upon  the  top  of  die  bafon^  and  turn  it  upfade  down. 

Another.  Take  the  outfide  rind  of.  three  Seville 
oranges,  boil  them  in  feveral  waters  till  they  are  tender, 
then  pound  them  in  a  mortar,  with  three  quarters  of  a 
pound  of  iugar ;  then  blanch  half  a  pound  of  iweet  aU 
monds,  beat  them  very  fine,  with  rofe-wato*  to  keep 
them  from  oiling  j  then  beat  fi^tteen  eggs,  with  only  tat 
whites,  a  pound  of  frelh  butter,  and  beat  all  diefe  tc^e- 
ther  till  it  is  light  and  hc^low ;  then  kty  a  Ain  puff-pafte 

all 


29«  t    U    i)    D    I    N    G    S. 

all  ovcf  a  difh^  and  put  in  the  ingrediciSls.    Bake  if 
with  your  tarts. 

A  Suet  Pudding.  Take  a  pound  of  (bred  fuet,  a 
quart  of  milk,  four  eggs,  two  tea-(poonfuls  of  grated 
ginger,  a  little  (alt,  and  flour  enough  to  nnake  it  a  thick 
batter;  boil  it  two  hours.  It  may  be  made  into  dump* 
lings,  when  half  an  hour  will  boil  them. 

ATanfey  Pudding.  Take  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of 
ahnonds,  blanch  them,  and  beat  them  very  fine  with 
rofe- water ;  flice  a  French  roll  very  thin,  put  in  a  pint 
of  erc^m  boiling-hot ;  beat  four  eggs  very  well,  and 
mix  with  the  eggs  when  beaten,  a  little  fugar  and  grated 
nutm^,  a  glafs  of  brandy,  a  litde  juice  of  taniey,  and 
the  juice  of  fpinach  to  make  it  green.  Put  all  the  in- 
gredients into  a  ftewpan,  with  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of 
butter, '  and  give  it  a  gentle  boil.  You  may  either  boil 
it  or  bake  it  in  a  difh,  either  with  a  crufl  or  writing 
paper. 

Another  way.  Put  as  much  boiling  cream  to  four 
Naples'  bifcuits  grated  as  will  wet  them,  beat  the  yolks 
of  four  eggs :  have  ready  a  few  chopped  tanfcy-leaves, 
widi  as  much  fpinach  as  will  make  it  a  pretty  green« 
Be  careful  not  to  put  too  much  tanfey  in,  becaufe  it 
will  make  it  bitter.  Mix  all  together  when  the  cream 
is  cold,  with  a  little  fugar,  and  fee  it  over  a  flow  fire  till 
;t  grows  thick ;  then  take  it  ofi;  and,  when  cold,  puc 
it  in  a  cloth,  well  buttered  and  floured  -,  tie  it  up  clofe» 
and  let  it  boil  three  quarters  of  an  hour ;  take  it  up  in  a 
balbn,  and  it  let  (land  one  quarter,  then  turn  ic  carefully 
put,  and  put  white  wine  fauce  round  it. 

A  Tranjparent  Pudding^  Beat  eight  eggs  well,  put 
them  in  a  pan  with  half  a  pound  of  £i-cih  butter,  half  a 

pound 


PUDDINGS.  297 

pound  of  fine  powdered  fugar,  and  half  a  nutmeg 
grated  -,  fet  it  on  the  fire,  and  keep  ftirring  it  till  it  is 
of  the  thicknefs  of  buttered  eggs  j .  then  put  it  away  to 
cool ;  put  a  thin  puflT-pafte  round  the  edge  of  your  difli; 
pour  in  the  ingredients^  bake  it  half  an  hour  in  a  mode*- 
rate  oven,  and  fend  it  up  hot.  It  is  a  pretty  pudding 
for  a  corner  for  dinner,  and  a  middle  for  fupper, 

.  FermiciUi  Pudding.  Boil  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of 
vermiceUi  in  apint  of  milk,  till  it  is  foft,  with  aftickof 
cinnamon ;  then  take  out  the  cinnamon,  and  put  in  half 
a  pint  of  cream^  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  batter  meked^ 
and  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  fugar,  with  the  yolks  of 
^f  ^gs  ^^U  beaten.— *Bake  it  in  an  earthen  difli  with'^ 
out  ii,  pafte. 

A  Ycrkjhir^  PuDDmc.  Take  a  quart  of  xniik  and 
five  eggs,  beat  them  up  well  together,  and  mix  them 
with  flour  till  it  is  of  a  good  pancake  batter,  and  very 
fmooth ;  put  in  a  little  ialt,  ibme  grated  nutmeg  and 
finger  \  butter  a  dri^^ping  or  frying-pan,  and  put  it 
WKler  a  piece  of  beef,  mutton,  or  a  loinof  Teal>  that  Is 
Toafting,  and  then  put  in  your  batter ;  and  when  the 
cop-fide  is  browp,  cut  it  in  fquare  pieces,  and  turn  it, 
and  then  let  the  under  fide  be  brown.  Put  it  in  la  hot 
diifa,  as  clean  ifrom  fat  as  you  can,  and  iend  it  to  tabk^ 
hot, 

'  Another  way*  Tdce  a  quart  of  milk,  three  eggs,  a 
litde  fak,  fome  grated  ginger,  and  flour  enough  tp 
make  it  as  a  batter  pudding ;  put  it  into  a  fmall  tin 
dripping-pan,  of  the  fize  for  the  putpofe ;  put  it  under 
l)eef,  mutton,  or  veal,  while  roafting.  When  it  is 
brawn,  cut  it  into  few  or  five  lengths^  and  turn  it,  that 
^  other  fide  rnay  become  brown*, 

Vot,  II,  Qjl  miu 


ftoS  PUDDINGS. 

IViUe  Puddings  tnjkins.  Boil  half  a  pound  of  rice 
in  milk  till  it  is  foit,  having  firft  waihed  the  rice  weU  in 
warm  water.  Put  it  into  a  fieve  to  drain^  and  beat  half 
a  pound  of  Jordan  almonds  very  fine  with  (bme  rofe- 
water.  Wafh  and  dry  a  pound  of  currants^  cut  a  pound 
of  hog's-lard  in  fmall  bits>  beat  up  fix  eggs  well,  half  a 
pound  of  fugar,  a  large  nutmeg  grated,  a  ftick  of  cin- 
namon, a  little  mace,  and  a  litde  fait.  Mix  them  well 
together,  fill  your  fkins,  and  boil  them. 

To  make  Black  Puddings.  Before  you  kill  a  hog,  get 
a  peck  of  groats,  boil  them  half  an  hour  in  water,  then 
drain  them,  and  put  them  into  a  clean  tub,  or  large 
pan;  then  kill  your  hog,  and  fave  two  quarts  of  the 
blood,  and  keep  ftirring  it  till  it  becomes  quite  cold  i 
then  mix  it  with  your  groats,  and  ftir  them  well  toge- 
ther. Seaibn  with  a  large  ipoonful  of  fait,  a  quarter  of 
an  ounce  of  cloves,  mace^  and  nutmeg  together,  an 
equal  quantity  of  each  j  dry  it,  beat  it  well,  and  mix 
in.  Take  a  little  winter  favoury,  fweet  marjoram,  and 
thyme,  penny-royal  ftripped  of  the  ftalks  and  chopped 
very  fine  i  juft  enough  to  feafon  them,  and  to  give  them 
a  flavour>  but  no  more.  The  next  day  take  the  leaf  of 
die  hog,  and  cut  into  dice,  fcrape,  and  wafh  the  guts 
very  clean,  then  tie  one  end,  and  begin  to  fill  them. 
Mix  in  the  fat  as  you  fill  them,  be  fure  to  put  in  a  goo(| 
deal  of  fat,  fill  the  fkins  three  parts  full,  tie  die  other 
end,  and  make  your  puddings  what  length  you  pleafe  ; 
prick  them  with  a  pin,  and  put  them  in  a  ketde  of  boil- 
ing water.  Boil  them  very  Ibftly  an  hour^  then  take 
them  out,  and  lay  them  on  clean  fbaw. 

?eas  Pcddino.    Boil  it  till  it  is  quite  tender,  then 
take  it  up,  untie  it,  Ilir  in  a  good  piece  of  butter,  a 

^tde 


P    U    D    D    I    N    G    S.  299 

little  fkltr  affd  a  gpod  deal  of  beaten  pepper  5  then  tie  it 
up  tight  again,  boil  it  an  hour  longer,  and  it  will  eac 
fine.       » 

A  Plain  Puddino.  Put  into  a  pint  of  milk  three 
laurel  leaves,  a  litde  grated  lenK>n-peel5  and  a  bit  of 
mace ;  boil  ity  then  ftrain  it  off,  and  twith  a  litde  flour 
make  it  into  a  pretty  thick  haily  pudding ;  then  flir  into 
it  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  butter,  two  ounces  of  fugar, 
half  a  fmall  nutmeg  grated,  five  yolks  and  three  whites 
of  eggs ;  beat  them  well  up  all  together,  pour  it  into  a 
difh,  and  bake  it. 

Another.  Take  the  yolks  and  whites  of  three  eggs, 
beat  them  together,  with  two  large  fpoonfuls  of  flour,  a 
little  fait,  and  half/  a  pint  of  milk  or  cream  i  make  it 
the  thicknefs  of  a  pancake  batter,  and  beat  all  very  well 
together.     It  will  take  half  an  hour  to  boil  ic 

P/k»i  Pudding.  Cut  a  pound  of  fuet  into  little 
pieces,  but  not  too  fine;  take  a  pound  of  currants 
wafhed  clean,  a  pound  of  raifins  floned,  eight  yolks  of 
eggs,  and  four  whites,  half  a  nutmeg  grated,  a  tea- 
ipoonful  of  beaten  ginger,  a  pound  of  flour,  and  a  pint 
of  inilk:  beat  die  eggs  firft,  then  put  to  them  half  the 
milk,  and  beat  them  together  $  and,  by  degrees,  ftir  in 
the  flour,  then  the  fuet,  ipice,  and  fi^it,  and  as  much 
milk  as  will  mix  it  well  together  very  thick.  It  will 
take  five  hours  boding. 

An  excellent  Plum  Pudding.  Take  one  pound  of 
fuet,  one  pound  of  currants,  and  one  pound  of  raifins 
ftoneds  the  yolks  of  eight  eggs,  and  the  whites  of  four; 
the  crumb  of  a  penny*loaf  grated,  one  pound  of  flour, 
half  a  nutmeg,  a  tea-fpoonful  of  grated  ginger,  a  littlt 
fait,  and  a  fmall  glafs  of  brandy  j  beat  the  eggs  firft, 

Q^q  2  miat 


300  PUDDINGS. 

mix  them  with  ibmc  milk.     Bf  d^ecs  add  the  flour 
.and  other  ingredients,  and  what  more  milk  may  be  ne* 
ceiTary  -,  it  muft  be  very  thick  and  well  ftirred.     It  will 
require  five  hours  boiling. 

A  Potatoe  Pudding.  Boil  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of 
potatoes  till  they  are  ibft^  peel  them,  and  mafli  them 
with  the  back  of  a  fpoon,  and  rub  diem  through  a  fieve 
to  have  themfineand  finooth ;  then  take  half  a  pound 
of  fi-efh  butter  melted,  half  a  pound  of  fine  fugar,  and 
beat  diem  well  together  dll  thiey  arc  finooth:  beat  fix 
eggs,  both  yolks  and  whites,  ftir  them  in  with  a  glais 
of  fack  or  brandy :  you  may,  if  you  pleafe,  add  half  a 
pint  of  currants.  Boil  it  half  an  hour.  Melt  fbme  but- 
.ter,  and  put  into  it  a  gkfs  of  white  wine,  fweeten  it  with 
fugar,  and  pour  it  over  it. 

Another »  Take  two  pounds  of  potatoes,  boil  them 
foft,  and  beat  them  in  a  mortar  fine  i  beat  in  half  apint 
of  melted  butter,  boil  ichalfaniiour,  pour  melted  buf>- 
ter  over,  with  a  gla&  of  white  wine,  or  die  juice  of  a 
^eviUe  orange,  and  throw  fugar  all  over  the  pudding 
arid  difli. 

A  Quaking  Pudding.  .  Take  a  quart  of  cream,  boil 
it,,  and  let  it  ftand  till  almofl  cold,  then  beat  four  ^gs 
a  full  quaiter  of  an  hour^  with  a  ipoonful  and  a  half  of 
flour  s  then  mix  them  with  joxxr  cream,  add  fugar  and 
nutmeg  to  your  palate,  tie  it  dofe  up  in  a  cloth  wcU 
truttered  i  kc  it  boi\  an  liour,  and  turn'  it  carefully. 

A  BxibbU  PtJDDiNG.  Take  the  meat  of  a  Urge 
roafted  rabbit,  chop  it  very  fine  with  the  liver,  fpak  tbe 
bones  m,  a  pint  of  cream  about  an  hour ;  boil  fix  onions 
in  bioth«  with  a  faggot  of  parfley,  Ihallots,  two  cloves^ 
pepper/  and  fait }  boil  it  till  the  liquid  is  of  a  tluck 

con^ 


«  • 


J 


p  u  p  t>  I  N  a  ^.       301 

confiftence,  chop  the  onjons  very  finej  jn«|f  ^cm  \wich 
the  meat  and  bn-ead-crumbs  foaked  in.cre9m»  and  the 
cream  wherein  you  fi>aked  .the  bqnes  ^  ^d  .^wght  yolks 
Df  eggS|f  three  quarters  of  a  poynd,  of  lard  cut.iafmal^ 
pieces^  ialt,  andfpiccs  to^t^ftc.  ,    , 

Puddln2;s  may  thus  be  made  of  ^U  forts  of  poultry  or 
jgame.  They  may  be  boiled  in  a  clpth,  2^  ^,90^^1^0(1 
bread  pudding  and  ierved  with  a  relifhing  &uce. . 

,  A  Rice  PuDDiNXJ,  Put  arquarter  of  a  pound  of  ricp 
into  a  faucepan^  with  a  quart  of  new  milk>  and  «  fiick 
of  cinnamon ;  flir  it  often  to  keep  it  from  flicking  to  du: 
iaucepan..  When  it  has  boiled  thick,  pour  it  into  ^  pan^ 
ftir  in  a  quaiter  of  a  pound  of  frefh  butter,  and  iugar  t^ 
your  palate ;  grate  in  half  a  nutmeg,  add  three  or  fi>ttr 
ipoonfuls  of  rofe-*water,  and  ilir  it  all  weH  togetlper* 
When  it  is  coid,  beat  up  eight  eggis»  with  half  the 
whites,  beat  it  all  well  together,  butter  a  difh,  pour  it 
in,  and  bake  it..  You  may  fkft  lay  a  ppff'pafte  all  over 
|he  difli.  For  a  change,  you  may  put  in  a  few  currants 
and  fweetmeats. 

A  Ground  Rice  Pudding.  Boil  a  quarter  of  a  pound 
of  ground  rice  in  water  till  it  is  fbft,  then  beat  the  yolk;s 
of  four  eggs,  and  put  to  them  a  pint  of  cream,  a  qu^r&qr 
of  a  pound  of  fugar^  and  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  but- 
ter ;  mix  them  wcU  together*  You  may  either  boil  or 
bake  it. 

A  cheap  plain' Rice  Pudding.  Take  a  quarter  of  a 
pound  of  rice,  and  half  a  pound  of  raifuis  flx>ned,  and 
tie  them  in  a  cloth.  Give  the  rice  a  great  deal  of  room 
to  fwell  Boil  it  two  hour«*  When  it  is  enough,  turn 
it  into  your  dilb,  and  pour  melted  butter  andiugar  over 
it^  with  »  little  nu;meg, 

Ano^ 


>>a  PUDDINGS. 

Another  Rice  Pudding.  Take  a  quarter  of  a  pound 
of  rice^  boii  it  in  water  till  it  is  fbft>  and  drain  it  through 
m  hair  fieve ;  beat  it  in  a  marble  mortar,  with  the  yolks 
of  four  eggs,  four  ounces  of  butter,  and  die  £uiic  quan- 
tity of  fugar ;  grate  the  rind  of  half  a  lemon,  and  half  a 
nutmeg,  work  them  well  together  for  half  an  hour  -,  then 

0 

put  in  half  a  pound  of  currants  well  wafhed  and  cleaned, 
mix  them  well  together,  butter  your  cloth,  and  de  it  up. 
'Boil  it  an  hour,  and  fenre  it  up  with  white  wine  fauce. 
-  A  Sago  PuDDrNG.  Take  two  ounces  of  (ago,  boil  it 
with  fome  cinnamon  and  a  bit  of  lemon  peel  till  it  is  foft 
mid  thick.  Grate  the  crumb  of  a  halfpenny  roll,  put  to 
it  aglafs  of  red  wine,  four  ounces  of  chopped  marrow, 
the  yolks  of  /our  eggs  well  beaten,  and  fugar  to  your 
tafte.  When  the  fago  is  cold,  put  thefe  ingredients  to 
it.  Mix  it  all  welltogedier.  Bake  it  with  a  pufi^-pafte. 
When  it  comes  from  the  oven,  (lick  over  it  citron  cut 
into  pieces,  and  almonds  blanched  and  cut  into  flips. 

J  Spoonful  Pudding.  Take  a  fpoonful  of  flour,  a 
ipoonful  of  cream  or  milk,  an  egg,  a  litde  nutmegs 
ginger,  and  fait ;  mix  all  together,  and  boil  it  in  a  little 
wooden  difli  half  an  hpur.  You  may  add  a  few 
currants. 

A  Spinach  Pudding.  Take  a  quarter  of  a  peck  of 
Ipinach,  picked  and  waflied  clean,  put  it  into  a  fauce- 
pan  With  a  little  fait ;  cover  it  clofe,  and  when  it  is  boiled 
juft  tender,  throw  it  into  a  fieve  to  drain;  then  chop  it 
with  a  knife,  beat  up  fix  eggs,  muc  well  with  it  half  a 
pint  of  cream,  and  a  ftale  roll  grated  fine,  a  fitde  nut- 
meg, and  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  melted  butter  i  ftir  all 
well  together,  put  it  into  the  faucepan  the  fpinach  was 
ilkewed  in>  keeping  it  Airring  till  it  begins  to  be  thick, 

then 


P    U    ?-   F    S.  Jb3 

• 

then  wet  the  pudding-cloth  and  flour  it  well  j  tic  it  up, 
and  boil  it  an  hour  ^  turn  it  into  a  diih^  and  pour  over 
it  melted  butter,  with  a  littlaSeville  orange  iqueezed  iit 
itj  and  fugar.  You  may  bake^  it,  but  then  you  fhoul^ 
put  Ui  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  fugar. 


PUFFS. 

German  Puffs.  Mix  two  Ipoonfuls  of  fine  flour  with 
^^o  ^gs  well  beat,  half  a  pint  of  cream  or  milk,  and 
two  ounces  of  melted  butter ;  ftir  it  all  well  together, 
and  add  a  litde  lalt  and  nutmeg :  put  them  in  tea-cups, 
or  litde  deep  tin  moukls,  half  full,  and  bake  them  a 
quarter  of  an  hour  in  a  quick  oven ;  but  let  it  be  hot 
eriough  to  colour  them  at  top  and  bottom.  Turn  thent 
into  a  difli,  and  ftrew  powder-fugar  over  them. 

Lemon  PuFpi  Beat  and  fift  a  pound  of  double-re« 
fined  Aigar,  put  it  into  a  bowl  with  the  juice  of  two  lc« 
mons,  and  beat  them"  well  together  i  then,  having 
beat  the  white  of  an  egg  to  a  very  high  froth,  put  it  alfo 
in  your  bowl,  and  beat  it  half  an  hour  ^  add  three  eggs, 
and  two  rinds  of  lemons  grated;  mix  it  well  up,  duft 
fome  fugar  on  your  papers,  drop  on  the  pufls  in  fmall 
drops,  and  bake  them  in  an  oven  moderately  hot. 

jilmond  Puffs.  Take  two  ounces  of  fweet  almonds, 
blanch  them,  and  beat  them  very  fine,  with  orange- 
V  flower  water ;  beat  the  whites  of  three  eggs  to  a  very 
high  froth,  and.  then  ftrew  in  a  litde  fifted  fugar.  Mix 
your  almonds  with  your  fugar  and  eggs,  and  then  add 
more  fugar  till  it  is  as  thick  as  pafte.  Lay  it  in  cakes, 
and  bake  it  in  a  cool  oven,  on  paper. 

Sugar 


J04.         BOTTLED    PUNCH. 

Su^ar  Puffs.  Beat  the  vr)xLtt%  of  ten  eggs  till  they 
rife  to  a  high  firoth,  put  them  into  a  ftone  mortar,  or  a 
ifdcAtn  bowl,  add  as  much  double-refined  fugar  as  will 
ihake  them  thick  \  put  in  a  little  ambeip-is  to  give  them 
a  flavour^  rub  them  round  the  mortar  for  half  an  hour^ 
put  in  a  few  carraway-feeds.  Take  a  fheet  of  wafersj^ 
lay  them  on  as  broad  as  a  fixpence,  and  as  high  as  they 
can  be  laid ;  put  them  in  a  moderate  oven  half  a  quar- 
ter qf  an  hoyrj  and  they  will  look  as  white  as  fnow« 


yi"^^wi '   ■■  I  < 


BOTTLED      PUNCH, 

Take  a  gallon  of  good  brandy,  and  put  to  it  the 
jparings  of  fix  lemons^  and  as  many  oranges ;  let  them 
infufe  for  four  days. 

In  the  mean  time,  take  fix  quarts  of  loft  water,  an4 
a  pound  and  a  half  of  fine  fiigar,  with  the  whites  of  fix 
iggs,  beaten  up  to  a  froth  in  a  little  of  the  cold  water  i 
mix  them  together,  and  fet  the  liquor  over  the  fire,  and 
when  it  boils  fcum  it,  as  long  as  any  fcum  rifes ;  then 
fct  it  by  till  it  is  cold,  and  then  put  it  up  into  a  proper 
veifel,  and  add  to  it  the  brandy  with  the  peels,  and  as 
much  of  the  pieces  of  lemon  as  you  think  fit ;  ftop  up 
^e  veiTel  clofe  and  let  it  ftand  for  fix  weeks ;  then  rack, 
itolFforufe. 

This  is  a  ftrong  punch  to  be  ufed  only  as  a  cordial 
dram  of  a  gratefiil  tafte  and  flavour,  and  is  fold  in  fome 
taverns  under  a  foreign  name, 

0:,   QUAILS, 


[    305  .  3 

Q^  U    A    I    L    S. 

They  are  generally  done  as  chickens ;  but  may  be 
dreffed  in  all  the  different  ways  of  other  fmall  birds. 

Or  roaft  them  like  woodcocks^  without  drawing,  and 
the  trail  to  run  upon  a  toaft;  with  good  gravy  for  faucc. 

Spit  them  fide- ways,  with  a  vine-leaf  between ;  bafte 
them  with  butter,  and  have  fried  crumbs  of  bread  round 
the  difli. 

Or  you  may  make  a  force-meat  with  the  yolks  of  two 
hard  eggs  bruifed,  fome  marrow  cut  fine,  artichoke- 
bottoms  cut  fmall,  and  fweet  herbs,  feafoned  with  pep- 
per, fait,  and  nutmeg.  Stuff  the  birds,  then  put  them 
into  a  faucepan  with  fome  good  grayy  ( juft  enough  to 
cover  them),  a  glafs  pf  white  wine,  and  a  blade  of  mace. 
Cover  them  clofe,  and  let  them  ftew  very  fqfdy  till  diey 
are  tender ;  then  take  up  the  cjuails,  lay  them  in  9 
diih,  keep  then)  hot,  put  a  piece  of  butter  rolled  in 
flour  to  thicken  the  fauce ;  let  them  boil  till  fmooth> 
fqueeze  in  a  little  lemon,  fkim  clean,  and  pour  it  over 
them. 

Quails,  or  Small  Birds  in  favoury  Jelly.  Put  a  good 
piece  of  butter  into  the  bellies  of  eight  fmall  birds,  with 
their  heads  and  feet  on,  and  few  up  their  vents.  Put 
them  in  a  jug,  cover  it  clofe  with  a  cloth,  and  fet  thenfi 
in  a  kettle  of  boiling  water  till  they  are  enough.  Wheii 
the  jelly  is  fet,  lay  in  three  birds  with  their  brc^fts  down, 
and  coyer  them  with  it;  when  fet  again^  put  in  the 
other  fiye,  with  their  heads  in  the  middle,  and  proceed 
in  the  fame  manner  as  before  directed  for  chickens. 

Vol.  II.  R  r  OyiN- 


T  306  3 

OyiNSEY,  or  Inflammation  oftht  Throat. 

This  difeaie  prevails  much  in  the  winter  and  ipring, 
and  is  moft  £ital  to  young  people  of  a  (anguine  tempe- 
rament. 

It  proceeds  in  general  from  an  obftrufted  perlpira- 
tioHj  or  whatever  heats  or  inflames  the  blood:  or  may 
be  often  occafioned  by  omitting  fome  part  of  the  cover- 
ing ufually  worn  about  the  neck,  by  drinking  qold  liquor 
when  the  body  is  warm^  by  riding  or  walking  againft  a 
cold  northerly  wind,  or  any  thing  that  greatly  000b  the 
throat>  and  parts  adjacent.  It  may  likewife  proceed  - 
from  the  negled  of  bleeding,  purging,  or  any  cultomary^ 
evacuation. 

Singing,  fpeaking  loud,  and  long,  or  whatever  ftrains 
the  throat,  may  likewife  caufe  an  inflammation  of  that 
organ.  The  quinfey  proves  fatal  to  thole  who^  aftcr 
fitting  long  in  a  warm  room^  go  abroad  in  the  cold 
night  air.  Sitting  with  wet  feet,  or  keeping  on  wee 
deaths,  are  very  apt  to  occafion  this  malady.  It  is 
likewife  frequendy  occafioned  by  contbuing  long  in  a 
moifr  place>  fleeping  in  a  damp  bedj  fitting  in  a  room 
that  has  lately  been  new  plaftered,  &c. 

The  inflammation  of  the  throat  is  evident  fitxn  in* 
fpeftion,  the  parts  appearing  red  and  fwelled  \  befides, 
the  patient  complains  of  pwis  in  fwallowing.  His  pulfe 
is  quick  and  hard,  with  other  fymptoms  of  a  fever.  If 
blood  be  let,  it  is  generally  covered  with  a  tough  coat 
of  a  whitiih  cobur^  and  die  patient  Ipits  a  tou^ 
phlegm.  As  the  fwellbg  and  inflammadon  increafi^ 
ijie  breathing  and  fw^owing  become  more  difficult  % 

the 


Q^  U    I    N    S    E    Y.  307 

die  pain  affe&s  the  ears ;  the  eyes  generally  appear  red> 
and  the  fiice  fwells.  The  patient  is  often  obliged  to 
keep  himfelf  in  an  ered  pofture^  bemg  in  danger  of  fuf- 
focation ;  there  is  a  conftant  naufea^  or  inclination  to 
romity  and'  the  drink^  inftead  of  palling  into  the  do- 
machy  is  often  returned  by  the  nofe.  .The  padent  it 
firquendy  flarved  at  Iaft>  merely  from  an  inability  to 
fwallow  any  kind  of  food. 

When  the  breathing  is  laborious^  with  ftraitneis  of 
the  breaft  and  anxiety,  the  danger  is  great.  Though 
the  pain  in  fwallowing  be  very  great,  yet  while  the  pa- 
tient breathes  eafy,  there  is  not  ib  much  danger.  An 
external  fwelling  is  no  unfavotirable  fymptom;  but  if  it 
Suddenly  falls,  and  the  dileafe  affeds  the  breaft,  the 
danger  is  very  great*  When  a  quinfey  is  the  confe* 
quence  of  Ibme  other  difeafe,  which  Jias  already  weak« 
encd  the  padent,  his  fituation  is  dangerous.  A  froth^ 
ing  at  the  mouth,  with  a  fwelled  tongue,  a  pale,  ^aftly 
countenance,  and  coldneis  of  the  extremides,  bode  fatal 
confequences. 

The  food  ihuft  be  lig^t,  and  in  fmall  quantity,  and 
the  drink  plentiful,  weak,  and  diluting,  mixed  with 
acids. 

It  is  peculiarly  neceflary  that  the  neck  be  kept  warm^^ 
for  which  purpofe  feveral  folds  of  flannel  may  be  wrap- 
ped round  it ;  that  alone  will  often  remove  a  (light 
complaint  of  the  throat,  efpecially  if  applied  in  due 
time.  We  cannot  here  omit  obferving  the  propriety  of 
a  cuflom  which  prevails  amongft  the  peafants  of  this 
country.  When  they  feel  any  uneafinefs  of  the  throat, 
they  wrap  a  ftocking  about  it  all  night*  So  eflFedtual  is 
this  reooedy,  that  in  many  places  it  pafTcs  for  a  charm^ 

Rr  2  «nd 


3o8  Q_  U    I    N    S    E    y. 

and  the  Hocking  is  applied  with  particular  ceremonies  r 
the  cuftom^  however,  is  undoubtedly  a  good  one,  and 
ihould  never  be  n^lefted.  When  the  throat  has  thus 
been  wrapped  up  all  night,  it  mud  not  be  expofed  t» 
the  C0I4  ^ir  through  the  day,  but  a  handkerchief  or  a 
piece  of  fl&nnel  kept  about  it  till  the  inflammation  be 
removed. 

The  jelly  of  black  currants  is  a  medicine  very  much, 
in  efteem  for  compl^nts  of  the  throat ;  it  fhould  almod 
be  conftantly  kept  in  the  mouth,  and  (wallowed  down 
leifurely.  It  may  likewife  be  mixed  in  the  patient's 
drink,  or  taken  any  other  way.  When  it  cannot  be 
obtained,  the  jelly  of  red  currants,  or  of  mulberries  may 
be  ufed  in  its  ftead 

Gargles  for  the  throat  arc  very  beneficial.  They  may 
be  made  of  fage  tea,  with  a  litde  vinegar  and  honey,  or 
by  adding  to  half  a  pint  of  the  pedoral  deco£lion  two  or 
three  fpoonfuls  of  honey,  and  the  fame  quantity  of  cur- 
rant jelly.  This  may  be  ufed  three  or  four  times  a  day  ; 
and  if  the  patient  be  troubled  with  tough  vifcid  phlegm, 
the  gargle  may  be  rendered  more  iharp  and  cleanling, 
by  adding  to  it  a  tea-fpoonful  of  the  fpirit  of  faUam^ 
i^oniac. 

There  is  no  difeafe  wherein  the  benefit  of  bathing  the 
feet  and  legs  in  lilkewarm  water  is  more  apparent:  that 
praftice  ought  therefore  never  to  be  negUEUd.  li  people 
were  careful  to  keep  Warm,  to  wrap  up  their  throats 
with  flannel,  to  bathe  their  legs  and  feet  in  warm  water, 
and  to  ufe  a  fpare  diet,  with  diluting  liquors,  at  the  be- 
ginning of  this  difcaie,  it  would  feldom  proceed  to  a 
great  height,  or  be  attended  with  any  danger: — but 
when  thcfe  prccatitiohs  are  ncgleftcd,  and  the  dileafe 
.,         *  *  become!^ 


Q^  U    I    N    S    E    Y.  309 

becomes  violent,    more  powerful  medicines  are  nc- 
ccffary. 

An  inflammation  of  the  throat  being  a  moft  acute 
and  dangerous  diftemper,  which  fometimes  takes  off*  die 
patient  very  foddcnly,  it  will  be  proper,  as  foon  as  the 
lymptoms  appear,  to  bleed  in  the  arm,  and  to  repeat 
the  operation  if  circumftances  require. 

The  body  ihould  likewife  be  kept  gently  open.  This 
may  either  be  done  by  giving  the  patient  for  his  ordinary 
drink  a  decoAion  of  figs  and  tamarinds,  or  fmall  dofes 
of  rhubarb  and  nitre  $  thefe  may  be  increafed  accor* 
ding  to  the  age  of  the  patient,  and  repeated  till  they 
have  defired  cffeft. 

Good  cffefts  are  often  experienced  from  ,a  bit  of/al 
prunely  or  purified  nitre,  held  in  the  mouth,  and  fwal^ 
lowed  down  as  it  melts.  This  promotes  the  difcharge 
of  fall va,  by  which  means  it  anlwers  the  end  of  a  gargle, 
and  at  the  fame  time  abates  the  fever,  by  promoting 
the  difcharge  of  urine,  &c^ 

The  throat  ought  likewife  to  be  rubbed  twice  or 
thrice  a  day  with  a  litde  of  the  volatile  liniment  j  this 
feldom  fails  to  produce  fome  good  effefts.  At  the  fame 
time  the  neck  ought  to  be  carefully  covered  with  wool 
or  flannel  to  prevent  the  cold  from  penetrating  the  flcin, 
as  this  application  renders  it  very  tender.  Many  other 
external  applications  are  recommended,  though  none  of 
them  are  preferable  to  a  common  poultice  of  bread  and 
milk. 

Some  recommend  the  gum  guaiacum  as  a  fpecific  in 
this  difeafe.  Half  a  dram  of  the  gum  in  powder  may  be 
made  into  an  cleftuary  with  the  rob  of  elder  berries,  or 

the 


I 


^lo  Q^  U    I    N    S    E    Y. 

the  jelly  of  currants  for  a  dole,    and  repeated  occa« 
fionally, 

Bliftering  upon  the  neck  or  behind  the  ears  in  Tic- 
lent  inflanunations  of  the  throat,  is  very  beneficial  a  and 
in  bad  cafes  it  will  be  neceflary  to  lay  a  bliftering  plaifler 
quite  acrofs  the  throat,  ib  as  to  ^each  fix>m  ear  to  ear« 
After  the  plaifters  are  taken  off,  the  parts  ought  to  be 
kept  running  by  die  application  of  ifliie  ointment,  dU 
die  inflamnution  is  gone  i  otherwife,  upon  thdr  drying 
up,  the  patient  will  be  in  dai^r  of  a  relaple. 

When  the  patient  has  been  treated  as  above,  a  (up* 
puration  feldom  happens :  this  however  is  fbmetimea 
die  cafe,  in  (pite  of  all  endeavours  to  prevent  it.  When 
die  inflammadon  and  fwelling  continue,  and  it  is  evident 
diat  a  fiippuration  will  enftie,  it  ought  to  be  promoted, 
by  drawing  the  fteam  of  warm  water  into  the  throat 
dirough  a  tunnel,  qr  the  like.  Soft  poultices  ou^t  like- 
wife  to  be  applied  outwardly,  and  the  patient  may  keep 
a  roafted  fig  conftantly  in  his  mouth. 

It  Ibmetimes  happens,  before  the  tumour  breaks,  that 
the  fwcUing  is  fo  great,  as  entirely  to  prevent  any  diing 
froin  getting  down  into  the  ftomach.  In  this  cafe,  the 
patient  muft  inevitably  perifh,  unlefs  he  can  be  (up** 
ported  in  fome  other  way :  this  can  only  be  done  by 
nouriftiing  clyfters  of  broth,  or  gruel,  with  milk,  &c. 
Patients  have  often  been  fupported  by  thelc  for  feveral 
days,  till  the  tumour  has  broke  i  and  afterwards  they 
have  recovered. 

When  a  difficulty  of  fwallowing  is  not  attended  with 

an  acute  pain  or  inflammation,  it  is  generally  owing  to 

an  obftrudtion  of  the  glands  about  the  throat,  and  only 

;  ^"  reqiiirc» 


CL  U    I    N    S^  E    Y.  3it 

requires  that  the  part  be  kept  warm^  and  the  thn>at  fi^ 
quendy  gargled  with  ibmethii^  diat  may  gendy  ftimu* 
hte  the  glands,  as  a  dec6£tion  of  figs  widi  vinegar  and 
honey ;  to  which  may  be  added  a  litde  muftard^  or  z 
fmall  quantity  of  iptrits.  But  this  gargle  is  never  to  be 
vied  where  tKere  are  figns  of  an  inflammadon. 

Thofe  who  are  lubjeft  to  inflammadons  of  the  throaty 
in  order  to  avoid  that  difeafe^  ou^t  to  Uve  temperate. 
Such  as  do  not  chufe  to  oblerve  thb  rule,,  muft  have 
frequent  recourle  to  purging,  and  odier  evacuations,  to 
difcharge  the  fuperfluous  humours.  They  ought  like- 
wife  to  beware  of  catching  cold,  and  Ihould  abftain 
from  aliment  and  medicines  of  an  aitringent  or  ftimu* 
lating  nature. 

Much  good  is  often  done  by  only  wearing  a  ribband 
dipped  in  ipirit  of  hartihorn,  or  a  bit  of  flannel,  con* 
ftantly  about  their  necks,  or  by  wearing  thicker  fhoes, 
a  flannel  waifl:coat,  or  the  like.  Thefe  may  fcem 
trifling,  but  diey  have  great  eflfefb :  there  is  danger 
indeed  in  leaving  them  off  after  peribns  have  been  ac« 
cuftomed  to  them;  but  furdy  the  inconvehiency  of 
ufing  fuch  things  for  life,  is  not  to  be  comparoi  widi 
die  danger  which  may  attend  the  negleft  of  them. 

Sometimes,  after  an  inflammadon,  the  glands  of  the 
diroat  continue  fwelled,  and  become  hard  and  callous. 
This  compl^nt  is  not  eafily  removed,  and  is  often  ren« 
dered  dangerous  by  the  too  frequent  application  of  ftrong 
flimulating  and  ftypdc  medicines.  The  befl:  method  is 
to  keep  it  warm,  and  to  gargle  it  twice  a  day  with  a 
deco&ion  of  figs  Iharpened  a  litde  with  the  elixir  or  fpi« 
rit  of  vitrioL 

R.    RAB- 


f 


C  31a  1 


R. 


RABBITS, 

When  frcfli,  arc  white  and  firm,  which  you  will  per- 
ceive in  the  belly ;  and  the  claws  and  wool  will  be 
fmooth.     The  contrary  denotes  age. 

To  boil  a  Rabbit  with  onions.  Boil  it  in  a  good  deal 
of  wa^r  i  be  fure  to  flcim  your  water,  for  there  will  al- 
ways rife  a  iciim,  which  if  it  boils  down,  will  dilbolour 
them,  &c.  They  will  take  about  half  an  hour  boiling* 
For  faucc— your  onions  muft  be  peeled,  and  throw  them 
into  water  as  you  peel  them ;  then  cut  them  into  thin 
fitces,  boil  them  in  milk  and  water,  and  (kirn  the  li- 
quor. Half  an  hour  will  boil  them.  Throw  them  into 
a  clean  fieve  to  drain  5  chop  them,  and  rub  them  through 
a  cullender ;  put  them  into  a  faucepan,  fliake  in  a  litde 
flour ;  put  to  them  two  or  three  fpoonfiils  of  cream,  and 
a  good  piece  of  butter  j  ftew  them  all  together  over  the 
fire  till  they  are  thick  and  fine  if  lay  the  rabbit  in  the 
difh,  and  pour  the  fauce  all  oven  But  you  muft  pluck 
out  the  jaw-bones,  and  ftick  one  in  each  eye,  the  fmall 
end  inwards. 

To  roajl  Rabbits.  Cafe  your  rabbits,  Ikewcr  their 
heads  with  their  mouths  upon  their  backs,  ftick  their 
fore  legs  into  their  ribs,  and  fkewer  their  hind  legs  dou- 
ble. Break  half  a  penny  loaf  into  crupibs,  a  litde  par- 
fley,  thyme,  fweet  marjoram,  and  lemon  peel:  fhred 
all  thefe  fine,  and  feafon  them  with  pepper,  fait,  and 
nutmeg.  Mix  them  up  into  a  light  ftuifing^  with  two 
eggs,  a  little  cream,  and  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  butter. 

Put 


Put  it  into  their  bellies,  few  them  up,  and  dredge  aoi 
bafte  them  wdl  with  butter.  -  Take  them  up  when  they 
hive  roafted  an  hour ;.  chop  the  livers,  and  lay  them  in 
himps  round  ffhe  edge  of  your  difh.  Serve  them  up 
i^ith  pariley  and  butter  for  fauce.  Or  you  may  ftufF 
them  with-  chopped  liiet,  the  liver  part  boiled  and 
brutfed,  bread- crumbs,  grated  bread,  and  a  little  lemoil 
peel ;  chopped  parfley  and  fweet  herbs,  yolk  of  e^ 
mixed,  pepper,  fait,  and  nutmeg ;  gravy  in  the^fh,    - 

Another  tvay.  Bafte  them  with  good  buttCT,  and 
dredge  theni  with  a  fitfle  flour.  Half  an  hour  will  do 
them  at  a  very  quick  clear  fire  5  and,  if  they  are  finally 
twenty  minutes  will  do  them.  Take  the  liver,  with  a  ^ 
litde  bunch  of  parfley,  and  boil  them,  and  then  chop 
them  very  fine  together.  Melt  fome  good  butter,  and 
put  half  the  liver  and  parfley  into  the  butter ;  pour  it 
into  the  difli,  and  garnifli  the  difh  with  the  other  half« 
Let  your  rabbits  be  done  of  a  fine  light  brown,  and  put 
the  fauce  in  a  boat. 

lo  roafi  a  Rabbit  Hare  faflnon^  I^ard  a  rabbit  with 
bacon,  roail  it  as  you  do  a  hare,  with  a  iluiHng  in  the 
belly,  and  it  eats  very  well :  but  then  you  mud  make 
gravy  fauce.  But  if  you  do  not  lard  it,  white  fauce 
made  thus  t  Take  a  little  veal  broth,  boil  it  up  with  a 
little  flour  and  butter,  to  thicken  it ;  then  add  a  gill  of 
cream ;  keep  it  (tirring  one  way  till  it  is  fmooth^  their 
put  it  in  a  boat,  or  in  the  difh. 

^0  Jhrendine  Rabbits,  Skin  three  young  rabbits, 
but  leave  on  the  ears ;  wafh  and  dry  them  with  a  cloth^ 
take  out  the  bones  carefully,  leaving  the  head  wholes 
then  lay  them  flat;  make  a  force-meat  of  a. quarter  of  a 
pound  of  bacon  fcraped,  it  anfwers  better  than  fuet,  it 

Vol.  II.  S  f  make* 


314  K    A    B    B    I    T    S. 

makes  the  rabbits  eat  tenderer^  and  look  whiter  -,  add  u% 
the  bacon  the  crumb  of  a  penny  loaf,  a  little  lemon- 
thyme,  or  lemon-peel  Ihred  fine,  parfley  chopped  fmall, 
nutmeg,  kyan,  and  fait  to  your  palate ;  mix  them  up 
together  with  an  ^gg,  and  fpread  it  over  the  rabbits,  roll 
them  up  to  the  head,  Ikewer  them  ilraight,  and  cloic 
the  ends,  to  prevent  the  force-meat  from  coming  out  $ 
Ikewer  the  ears  back,  and  tie  them  in  fcparate  cloths> 
and  b^-  them  half  an  hour.  When  you  difh  them  up, 
take  OTt  the  jaw-bones  and  ftick  them  in  the  eyes  for 
horns ;  put  round  them  force-meat  balls  and  mufhrooms. 
Have  ready  a  white  fauce  made  of  veal  gravy,  a  litdc 
anchovy,  the  juice  of  half  a  lemon,  or  a  tea-fpoonful  of 
kmon-pickle ;  ftrain  it,  take  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of 
butter  rolled  in  flour,  fo  as  to  make  the  fauce  pretty 
thick ;  keep  ftirrti^  it  whilft  the  fk>ur  is  diliblving,  beat 
the  yolk  of  an  egg  s  put  to  it  Ibme  diick  cream,  nut- 
meg, and  fait ;  mix  it  with  the  gravy,  and  let  it  fimmer 
a  little  over  the  fire,  but  not  boil,  for  it  will  curdle  the 
cream  j  pour  it  over  the  rabbits,  and  ferve  it  up. 

Rabbits  Surprize.  Take  two  half-grown  rabbits, 
roaft  them,  cur  off  the  heads  clofc  to  the  fhoulders  and 
the  firft  joints  ^  then  take  off  all  the  lean  meat  from  the  | 
back-bones,  cut  it  fmall,  and  tofs  it  up  with*  fix  or 
feven  fpoonfuls  of  cream  and  milk,  and  a  piece  of  but- 
(er  as  big  as  a  walnut  rolled  in  flour,  a  litde  nutmeg, 
and  a  little  fait ;  fliake  all  well  together  till  it  is  as  thick 
as  good  cream,  and  fet  it  to  cool ;  then  make  a  force- 
meat with  a  pound  of  veal,  a  pound  of  fuet,  as  much 
crumbs  of  bread,  two  anchovies,  a  little  piece  of  lemon- 
peel  cut  fine,  a  little  fprig  of  thyme,  and  a  little  nutmeg 
grated ;  let  the  veal  and  fuet  be  chopped  very  fine,  and 

beat 


n 


RABBITS.  315. 

beat  in  a  mortar,  then  mix  it  afl  together  ^ith  theyolks- 
of  two  rifiw  eggs  5  place  it  all  round  the  rabbits,  leaving 
a  long  trough  in  the  back-bone  open,  that  you  think 
■will  hold  the  meat  you  cut  out  with  the  fauce  -,  pour  it 
in,  and  cover  it  with  the  force-meat,  fmooth  it  all  over 
with  your  hand  as  well  as  you  can  with  a  raw  eggi 
then  throw  on  a  litde  grated  bread,  and  butter  a 
magazine  or  pan,  and  take  them  from  the  drefler 
where  you  formed  them,  and  place  them  on  dt  very 
carefully.  Bake  them  three  quarters  of  an  hour,  till 
they  are  of  a  fine  brown  colour.  Let  your  faucc  be 
gravy  thickened  with  butter,  and  die  juice  of  a  lemon ; 
lay  them  in  the  difh,  and  pour  in  the  fauce.  Garnifh 
with  orange  cut  into  quarters,  and  fei-ve  it  up  for  a  firft 
courfe. 

Another  way.  Take  young  rabbits,  Ikewer  them, 
and  put  the  fame  pudding  into  them  as  direfted  for 
roafted  rabbits.  When  they  are  roafted,  draw  our  thd 
jaw-bones,  and  ftick  them  in  the  eyes  to  appear  like 
horns  5  then  take  off  all  the  meat'  from  the  back  cleart 
from  the  bone;s,  but  leave  them  whole  ;  chop  the  meat 
exceedingly  fine  with  a  little  (hred  parfley,  lemon-peel| 
one  ounce  of  beef-marrow,  a  fpoonful  of  good  cream, 
and  a  little  fait ;  beat  the  yolks  of  two  hard  eggs,  and  a 
piece  of  butter  the  fize  of  a  walnut  in  a  marble  mortar 
very  fine,  then  mix  all  together,  and  put  it  in  a  toffing- 
pan.  When  it  has  ftewed  five  minutes,  lay  it  on  the 
rabbit  when  you  take  the  meat  pfF,  and  put  it  clofe  down 
with  your  hand,  to  appear  like  a  whole  rabbit ;  then 
heat  a  lalamander,  and  brown  it  all  over  5  pour  a  good 
brown  gravy  made  as  thick  as  cream  in  the  dilb,  ftick 

S  r  2  a  bunch 


314 

makes  the  rabbits  < 
the  bacon  the  cm 
thyme,  or  lemon-; 
nutmeg,  kyan,  an 
together  with  an  c 
them  up  to  the  I . 
the  ends,  to  prevc 
fkewer  the  ears  I 
and  bdl'them  hi! 
take  out  the  jav, 
horns;  putroun 
Have  ready  a  ^' 
anchovy,  the  i' 
Icmon-picklc  : 
butter  rolled 
thick;  keep 
the  yolk  of 
meg,  and  1 
a  little  ove: 
cream;  p 
Rabbi 

Maft  the 

•fte  firft 
*#sfk>l 


*" 

-      -  ^> .—  ■p-^—    n  ^  JSl  uy 

_    — 

»- 

— .»-       -•  -  — ■■ 

_. 

'^ zi^:SSl^-^ 

—  ^ .  2r  arc  ri 

-*rt^^^ 

-      ----..-2C-i 

-  -z^i-'^^ 

_-i^^ 

•r!cr:s=- 

_    -J-  i^-  "^ 

.-^'P^- 

.-r:*-^ 

_  ^-tiiki 

.  -  r   .=?P- 

•^TJCC 

.^'i 

--  :tt 

—  :^ 


^  f^ 


j=X 


j^ 


II  il  RABBITS.  317 

^,ve  them  on  with  the  head  i  prepare  a  nice  hot 

"neat  of  fome  bits  of  the  rabbits  that  may  be  fpared, 

r  veal  or  lamb  fat,  a  litdc  fcraped  bacon,  a  morfel 

^n  onion,  a  mufhroom,  pepper,  fait,  and  a  litde 

^ ;  fry  all  together  for  a  few  minutes ;  put  it  into 

ir  with  fome  crumbs  of  a  French  roll  foaked  io 

or  milk,  with  a  litde  nutmeg;  pound  all  well 

T  with  the  yolks  of  two  or  three  eggs ;  fpread 

ibits  in  a  difh,  and  lay  your  force-meat  on,  roll 

up  to  the  wings,  and  bind  with  a  bit  or  pack^ 

(lew  them  in  a  braze  about  an  hour  and  a  hal^ 

prepare  your  fauce  thus :— Take  all  forts  of  ftrong 

fuch  as  tarragon,  pimpernel,  thyme,  marjoram^ 

favoury,  a  green  onion  or  two,  muihrooms,  and  a 

of  fhallot,  all  mixed  very  fine  and  feparate.    To  a 

•le  or  two  of  gravy  and  cuUis  mixed'  put  in  juft  as 

ich  of  each  as  will  make  palatable  in  boiling  a  quarter 

an  hour  with  pepper,  fait,  and  nutmeg,  and  a  fpoon- 

!  or  two  of  good  oil ;  throw  in  a  handful  of  capers, 

.an  your  rabbits  well  from  grealc  j  add  the  juice  of  a 

juple  of  lemons  or  oranges,  and  difh  up  with  your  faucc 

vver. 

Rabbits  Pulled.  Half  boil  your  rabbits,  with  an 
onion,  a  litde  whole  pepper,  a  bunch  of  fweet  herbs, 
and  a  piece  of  lemon- peel ;  pull  the  flefh  into  flakes, 
put  to  it  a  little  of  the  liquor,  a  piece  of  butter  mixed 
with  flour,  pepper,  fait,  nutmeg,  chopped  parfley,  and 
the  liver  boiled  and  bruifed  -,  boil  this  up,  fhaking  it 
round. 

A  Scotch  Rabbit.  Having  toafted  a  piece  of  bread 
very  nicely  on  both  fides,  butter  it>  and  toaft  a  Ilice  of 

cbeefe 


3,«  RABBI    T    S^ 

a  bunch  of  myrtle  in  their  mouths^  and  (brve  them  up 
with  their  livers  broiled  and  frothed. 

Rabbits  in  Cafferok.  Take  a  couple  of  rabbits^  di« 
vide  them  Jnto  quarters,  flour  them  if  they  arc  not 
larded,  and  fry  them  in  butter ;  then  put  them  into  a 
fiewpan,  with  fbme  good  gravy  and  a  glafs  of  white 
wine  i  ie2£oii  them  with  pepper  and  fait  and  a  bunch  of 
fweet  herbs ;  cover  them  down  clofe,  and  let  them  Aew 
till  te^er  i  then  take  up  the  rabbits,  ftrain  off  the  fauce^ 
thicken  it  with  butter  and  flour,  and  pour  it  over  them. 

Jnother  wa^.  Having  divided  your  rabbits  into 
quarters,  you  may  lard  them  or  not  juft  as  you  pleafe. 
Shake  fome  flour  over  them,  and  fry  them  in  lard  and 
butter  \  then  put  them  into  an  earthen  pipkin,  with  a 
quart  of  good  broth,  a  glafs  of  white  wine,  a  litde  pep- 
per and  fait,  a  bunch  of  fweet  herbs,  and  a  fmall  piece 
of  butter  rolled  in  flour.  Cover  them  cloTe,  and  let  them 
ftew  half  an  hour  j  then  difli  them  up,  and  pour  the 
fauce  over  them.  Garnifli  with  Seville  oranges,  cut 
Jnto  thin  flices,  and  notched. 

Tortuguefe  Rabbits.  Get  fome  rabbits,  truls  them 
chicken  fafhion,  the  head  muft  be  cut  off,  and  the  rab- 
bit turned  with  the  back  upwards,  and  two  of  the  legs 
ftripped  to  the  claw-end,  and  (b  truflied  with  two 
fkewers  :  lard  them,  and  roafl:  them  with  what  iauce  you 
pleafe.  If  you  want  chickens,  and  they  are  to  appear 
as  fuch,  they  mufl:  be  dreffed  in  this  manner :— rScnd 
them  up  hot  with  gravy  in  the  difh,  and  gamifli  with 
lemon  and  beet-root. 

Rabbit^  Collaredy  with  a  Sauce  a  V  Ivernoife.  Two 
couple  of  young  rabbits  are  not  too  many  for  this  difh. 
Take  the  bones  out  quite  up  to  the  wings  or  fliouldersj 

but 


RABBITS.  317 

but  leave  them  on  with  the  head  $  prepare  a  nice  hot 
force-meat  of  fome  bits  of  the  rabbits  that  may  be  fpared, 
a  bit  of  veal  or  lamb  fatj  a  little  fcraped  bacon^  a  morfel 
of  green  onion,  a  mufhroom,  pepper,  fait,  and  a  litdc 
parfley ;  fry  all  together  for  a  few  minutes ;  put  it  into 
a  mortar  with  fome  crumbs  of  a  French  roll  foaked  10 
cream  or  milk,  with  a  litde  nutmeg;  pound  all  well 
together  with  the  yolks  of  two  of  three  eggs  -,  fpread 
your  rabbits  in  a  difh,  and  lay  your  force-meat  Qn,  roll 
them  up  to  the  wings,  and  bind  with  a  bit  or  pack* 
thread ;  ftew  them  in  a  braze  about  an  hour  and  a  hal^ 
and  prepare  your  fauce  thus :-— li'ake  all  forts  of  ftrong 
herbs,  fuch  as  tarragon,  pimpernel,  thyme,  marj6ram» 
and  favoury,  a  green  onion  or  two,  muihrooms,  and  a 
bit  of  ihallot,  all  mixed  very  fine  and  feparate.  To  a 
Ia41e  or  two  of  gravy  and  cullis  mixed^  put  in  juft  as 
much  of  each  as  will  make  palatable  in  boiling  a  quarter 
of  an  hour  with  pepper,  fait,  and  nutmeg,  and  a  fpoon«- 
ful  or  two  of  good  oil  -,  throw  in  a  handful  of  capers^ 
clean  your  rabbits  well  from  greafe  5  add  the  juice  of  a 
couple  of  lemons  or  oranges,  and  difh  up  with  your  faucc 
over. 

Rabbits  Pulkd.  Half  boil  your  rabbits,  with  an 
onion,  a  litde  whole  pepper,  a  bunch  of  fweet  herbs, 
and  a  piece  of  lemon- peel ;  pull  the  fiefh  into  flakes, 
put  to  it  a  little  of  the  liquor,  a  piece  of  butter  mixed 
with  flour,  pepper,  fait,  nutmeg,  chopped  parfley,  and 
the  liver  boiled  and  bruifed  -,  boil  this  up,  ihaking  it 
round. 

A  Scotch  Rabbit.  Having  toafted  a  piece  of  bread 
very  nicely  on  both  fides,  butter  it>  and  toaft  a  flice  of 

cheeie 


3i8  R  H  E  U  M  A  T  I  S  M. 

cheefe  about  as  big  as  the  bread  on  both  fides,  and  lay 
it  on  the  bread. 

A  fVeUb  Rabbit.  Toaft  a  piece  of  bread  on  both 
fideSy  then  toaft  the  cheefe  on  one  fide ;  lay  it  on  the 
toaft,  and  with  a  hot  iron  brown  the  other  fide.  You 
niay  rub  it  over  widi  muftard. 

J»  Englt/h  Rabbit.  Toaft  the  bread  brown  on  both 
fides,  and  lay  it  in  a  phtte  before  the  fire,  then  pour  a 
glafs  o£  red  wine  over  it,  and  let  it  foak  the  wine  up ; 
then  cut  fome  cheefe  very  thin,  and  lay  it  pretty  diick 
over  the  bread,  and  put  it  ii^  a  tin  oven  before  the  fire, 
and  it  will  be  prefently  toafted  and  browned.  Serve  it 
ifway  hot. 


RAGOO, — Sec  the  various  articles  drefTed  in  that 
manner. 


RAMEQUINS. — Sec  Cheesecakes^ 


RASPBERRIES.-— See  Jam,  Jelly,  &c 


RHEUMATISM. 

This  difeafe  has  often  a  refcmbUnce  to  the  gout.  It 
generally  attacks  the  joints  with  exquifite  pain,  and  is 
Ibmetimes  attended  with  inflamnnation  and  fwelling.  It 
is  mod  common  in  the  fpring,  and  towards  the  end  of 
autumn;  and  is  ufually  diftinguifhed  into  acute  and 
chronic ;  or  the  rheumatifm  with  and  without  a  fever. 

.    The 


RHEUMATISM.  ;|i9 

The  cauies  of  a  rheumatifm  are  frequently  the  Tamo 
as  thofe  of.  an  inflammatory  fever  i  viz.  an  obftrufted 
perfpiration^  the  immoderate  ufe  of  flrong  liquors>  and 
the  like.  Sudden  changes  of  the  weather^  and  all  quick 
tranQtions  from  heat  to  cold  are  very  apt  to  occafion 
the  rheumatifm.  Very  obftinate  rhcumatifnrs  have 
likewife  been  brpught  on  by  perfons  not  accuftomed  tx> 
it,  allowing  their  feet  to  continue  long  wet.  The  fame 
efieds  are  often  produced  by  wet^cloaths,  damp  beds, 
or  lying  on  the  damp  ground,  travcUing  in  the  nighty 
&c.  The  rheumatifm  may  likewife  be  occafioned  by 
excefCve  evacuations,  or  the  ftoppage  of  cuftomary  dif- 
charges.  The  rheumatifm  prevails  in  cold,  damp, 
marfliy  countries.  It  is  mod  common  amongft  the 
poorer  forts  of  peafants,  who  are  ill  cloathed,  live  in  kwr 
damp  houfes,  and  eat  coarfe  unwholefbme  feod,  which 
contains  but  little  nouriihment,  and  is  not  eafily  di- 
geftcd. 

.  The  acuk  rheumatifm  commonly  begins  with  weari« 
nefs,  fhivering,  a  quick  pulfe,  reftleflhefs,  thirft,  and 
Other  fymptoms  of  fever.  Afterwards  the  patient  com- 
plains of  flying  pains,  which  are  increafed  by  the  lead 
motion,  Thefe  at  length  fix  in  the  joints,  which  arc 
often  affeded  with  fwelling  and  inflammation.  If  blood 
be  let  in  this  difeafe,  it  has  generally  the  fame  appear- 
ance as  in  the  pleurify. 

In  this  kind  of  rheumatifm  the  treatment  of  the  pa- 
tient  is  nearly  the  fame  as  in  an  acute  or  inflammatory 
fever.  If  he  be  young  and  ftrong,  bleeding  is  necef- 
fary,  which  may  be  repeated  according  to  the  exigencies 
of  the  cafe.  The  body  ought  likewife  to  be  kept  open 
by  emollient  clyfters,  or  cool  opening  liquors  ;  as  de- 

co^ion 


^20  RHEUMATISM. 

coAion  of  tamarinds,  cream  tartar  whey,  fenna  tea,  and 
the  like.  The  diet  fhouki  be  light,  and  in  foiall  quan- 
tity, confifting  chiefly  of  roafted  apples,  groat  grueU  or 
weak  chicken  broth.  After  the  feverilh  fymptoms  have 
abated,  if  the  pain  ftill  continues,  the  patient  muft  keep 
his  bed,  and  take  fuch  things  as  promote  per^iration  i 
as  wine  whey,  mth  fpiritus  Mindereri^  &c.  He  may 
Ukewife  take  for  a  few  nights,  at  bed-time,  in  a  cup  of 
wine  whey,  a  dram  of  the  cream  of  tartar,  and  half  a 
dram  of  gum  guaiacum  in  powder. 

Warm-bathing,  after  proper  evacuations,  has  often 
an  exceeding  good  efieft.  The  patient  may  either  be 
put  into  a  bath  of  warm  water,  or  have  cloths  wrung 
out  of  it  applied  to  the  parts  a^efked.  Great  care  muft 
be  taken  that  he  do  not  catch  cold  after  bathing. 

The  chronic  rheumatifm  is  ieldom  attended  with  any 
considerable  degree  of  fever,  and  is  generally  confined 
to  Ibmc  particular  part  of  the  body,  as  the  Ihoulders, 
the  back,  or  the  loins.  There  is  feldom  any  inflam- 
mation or  fwelling  in  the  cafe.  Perfons  in  the  decline 
of  life  ^e  moft  fubje£b  to  the  chronic  rheumatifm.  In 
fUch  patients  it  often  proves  extremely  obftinate,  and 
ibmetimes  incurable. 

In  this  kind  of  rheumatifm  the  regimen  (hould  be 
nearly  the  fame  ais  in  the  acute.  Cool  and  diluting  diet, 
confifting  chiefly  of  vegetable  fubftanccs,  as  ftewed 
prunes,  coddled  apples,  currants  or  goofeberries  boiled 
in  milk,  is  moft  proper.  Arbutbnot  fays,  "  If  there  ht 
a  fpecific  in  aliment  for  the  rheumatifm,  it  is  certainly 
whey  i"  and  adds,  "  That  he  knew  a  perfon  fubjeft  to 
this  difeafe,  who  could  never  be  cured  by  any  other 
method  but  a  diet  <^  whey  and  bread/'    He  likewife 

feys. 


RHEUMATISM,  aat 

feys,  ^^  That  cream  of  tartar  in  water-grucl,  taken  for 
feveral  days>  will  eafe  rheumatic  pains  confiderably/' 
This  is  more  efficacious  when  joined  with  gum  guaiacum 
twice  a  day^  and  likewife  a  tea-fpoonful  of  the  volatile 
tin&ure  of  gum  guaiacum>:,at  bed-time^  in  wine  whey< 
.  Thb  courfe  may  be  continued  for  a  week>  or  longer, 
if  the  cafe  proves  obftinate^  and  the  patient's  ftrength  will 
permit  -,  it  ought  then  to  be  omitted  for  a  few  days,  and 
repeated  again.  At  die  fame  time  leeches  or  a  bliftering- 
plaifter  may  be  applied  to  the  part  affeded.  What  an- 
swers better  than  either  pf  thefe,  inobftinate  fixe^  rheu- 
matic pains>  is  the  warm  plaijier.  A  plaifter  of  Bui^undy 
<|>itc.hj  worn  for  ibme  time  on  the  part  afFefted,  gives 
great  relief  in  rheumatic  pains.  Very  obftinate  rheu-- 
niatic  pains  have  been  cured  by  rubbing  the  part  af* 
fefted  wirfi  tinfture  of  cantharides.  When  the  common 
cinfhire.  does  not  fucceed,  ufe  that  of  a  double  or  treble 
ftrength.  Cupping  upon  the  part  afie&ed  is  likewife 
often  very  beneficialj  and  i^  greatly  preferable  to  the  ap-> 
plication  of  leeches. 

Though  this  difeafe  may  not  feem  to  yield  to  medi« 
rcines  for  fome  time,  yet  they  ought  ftill  to  be  periifted 
in.  Peribns  who  are  fubjedt  to  frequent  returns  of  the 
rbeumatifm>  will  often  find  their  account  in  ufing  me* 
:dicines,  whether  they  be  immediately  affe&ed  with  the 
difeafe  or  not.  The  chronic  rheunvatifm  is  fimilar  to 
the  gout  in  this  refpeft,  that  the  moft  proper  tinfc  for 
ujjng  medicines  to  extirpate  it>  is  when  the  patent  is 
moft  free  from  the  diforder. 

There  are  feveral  of  our  own  domeftic  plants  which 
may  be  ufed  with  advanuge  in  the  rheumatifm«  On^ 
o[.  the  beft  is  the  white  muftard :  a  tablc*ipoonful  of 

Vol.  II.  T  t  the 


321  RHEUMATISM, 

4 

the  feed  of  this  plane  may  be  taken  twice  or  dince  a  day, 
irt  a  glafs  of  water  or  fmall  wine.  The  water-trefoil  is 
fikcwife  of  great  ufc  in  this  complaint :  it  may  be  in- 
fiifed  m  wine  or  ale,  or  drank  in  form  of  tca^  The 
ground-ivy,  camomile,  and  feveral  other  Utters,  are 
aHb  very  beneficid,  and  may  be  ded  in  the  fanle  man- 
ner. No  benefit,  however,  is  to  be  esqpeded  from 
thefe^  uniefs  they  be  taken  for  a  confiderable  time.  Ex* 
cellent  medicines  are  often  defpifed  in  this  diieafo,  be». 
canfe  they  do  not  perform  an  immediate  cure ;  whereas 
nothing  would  be  more  certjun  than  their  effWt,  were 
they  duly  perfiftcd  in.  Want  of  perfevcrance  in  the  ufe 
of  medicines  is  one  reafon  why  chronic  dileafes  are  & 
Tddom  cured. 

Cold  bathing,  cfpecially  in  fait  water,  often  cures 
the  rhetfmatifm.  We  would  alfo  recommend  riding  on 
horfeback,  and  wearing  flannel  next  to  the  (kin.  Ifiiies 
are  likewife  very  proper,  cfpecially  in  chronic  cafes.  If 
the  pain  aflfedbs  the  (houlders,  an  iflue  may  be  made  in 
the  arm ;  but  if  it  afFcfts  the  loins,  it  ihould«be  put  in 
the  leg  or  thigh. 

Perfons  afflifted  with  the  fcurvy  arc  very  lubjeft  to 
rheumatic  complaints.  The  beft  medicines  in  this  cafe 
are  bitters  and  mild  purgatives.  Thefe  may  either  be 
taken  feparately  or  together,  as  the  patient  inclines.  An 
ounce  of  Peruvian  bark,  and  half  an  ounce  of  rhubarb 
In  powder,  may  be  infufed  in  a  botde  of  wine  i  and 
one^  two,  or  three  wine  glafles  of  it  taken  daily,  as  &all 
be  found  necefTary  for  keeping  the  body  gently  open. 
In  cafes  where  the  bark  itfelf  proves  fufficiently  purga- 
tive^ the  rhubarb  may  be  omitted. 

Such 


RICKETS..  315 

Stich as arefubjefl:  tb  fre^uem  attacks  <rf*  the  i-hcu* 
matifm  ought  to  tiokt  choice  of  a  <ky,  warm  fitu^tioft^ 
to  siroU  tbe  lught  air^  wet  cloaths^  and  wet  &et^  ^ 
much  as  poffible.  Their  cloathing  fhould  be  warm>  and 
they  Aottld  wttar  flaaod  nexC  tbeir  ikin,  and  make  fre* 
queue  ufe  q£  the  fldOi-bru(h. 


RICKETS* 

As  this  difeafe  is  often  attended  with  evident  ligns  of 
iveaknefi  and  relaxation^  our  chief  aim  in  the  cure  mult 
be  to  brace  ^nd  ilrengthen  the  folids^  and  to  pix)mote 
digeftion>  and  the  due  preparation  of  the  fluids.  Thefe 
important  ends  will  be  teft  anfwered  by  wholefome  nou- 
rilhing  diet,  fuited  to  the  age  and  ftrength  of  the  patient, 
open  dry  air,  and  fuffickat  ^exercife.  If  the  child  has  a 
bad  nurfe,  who  cither  neglefts  her  duty,  or  does  not 
underftand  it,  fhe  fheuld*  be  changed.  If  the  feafon  be 
cold,  .the  child  ought  to  be  kept  warm ;  and  when  the 
weather  is  Jhot,  it  ought  to  be  kept  cool ;.  as  fweating  is 
apt  to  weaken  it,  and  too  great  a  degree  of  cold  has.thp 
iame  cffcdb.  The  limbs  fhould  be  rubbed  frequently 
with  a  warm  hand,  and  the  child  kept  as  cheerful  as 
poffible. 

The  diet  ought  to  be  dry  and  nouriftiing,  as  good 
.bread,  K>a{ted  flefh,  &c.  Bifcuit  is  generally  reckoned 
the  bcft  bread,  and  pigeons,  puUets,  veal,  rabbits,  or 
mutton,  roafted  or  minced,  are  the  moil  proper  flefh. 
If  the  child' be  too  young  for  flefh  meats,  he  may  have 
idee,  millet,  or  pearl  barley,  boiled  widi  ^raifms,  to 
which:  may  be  added  a  lltde  wine  and  Ipice.     JFIis  drink 

T  t  2  may 


314  ROASTING. 

may  be  good  claret,  mixed  with  an  equal  iquantit/  of 
water.  Thofe  who  cannot  afibrd  claret,  may  give  the 
child  now  and  then  a  wine-g^  of  mild  ale,  or  good 
porter. 

Sometimes  iflues  have  been  found  beneficial  in  this 
difeafe.  They  are  peculiarly  neceflary  for  diildren  who 
abound  with  grofs  humours.  An  infufion  of  the  Peru- 
vian bs^-k,  in  wine  or  ale,  would  be  of  fcrvice,  were  it 
poflible  to  bring  children  to  take  it.  I  might  here  men* 
tion  many  other  medicines  which  have  been  recom- 
mended for  the  rickets ;  but  as  there  is  far  more  danger 
in  trufting  to  thefe,  than  in  negledting  them  altogether, 
I  chufe  rather  to  pafs  them  over,  and  to  recommend  a 
proper  regimen  as  the  thing  chiefly  to  be  dependc4 
upon. 


«i" 


ROASTING. 

When  you  roaft  any  kind  of  meat,  it  is  a  very  good 
way  to  put  a  little  fait  and  water  in  *your  clripping-pan ; 
bafte  your  meat  a  litde  with  it ;  let  it  dry,  then  dufl:  it 
well  with  flour  5  bafte  it  with  frcfli  butter,  it  will  make 
your  meat  a  better  colour.  Obfervc  always  to  have  a 
brifk  clear  fire ;  it  will  prevent  .your  meat  from  dazing, 
and  the  fi-oth  from  falling ;  keep  it  a  good  diftance  from 
the  fire  s  if  the  meat  is  fcorched,  the  outfide  is  hard,  and 
prevents  the  heat  fi-om  penetrating  into  the  meat,  which 
will  appear  enough  before  it  is  litde  more  than  half 
done.  Time,  diftance,  bafting  often,  and  a  clear  fire, 
is  t^ic  beft  method  we  can  prefcribe  for  roafting  meat  to 
perfection  5  when  die  fteam  draws  near  the  fire,  it  is  afign 
^^  '  of 


R    O    A    &   T    r  N    G.  3aj 

of  its  -being  enough ;  but  you  will  be  the  beft  judge  of 
ihat  from  the  time  you  put  it  down.  Be  care^l^  wheil 
you  roaft  any  kind  of  wild -fowl,  to  keep  a  clear  brifk^ 
firei  roaft  them  a  light  brown,  but  not  too  much*  It 
is  a  great  fault  to  roaft  them  till  die  gravy  runs  out  of 
them,  it  takes  off  the  fine  flavour.  Tame  fowls  require 
more  roafting ;  they  are  a  long  time  before  they  are  hot 
through,  and  muft  be  often  bafted  to  keep  up  a  flrong 
£roth  s  it  makes  them  rife  better,  and  with  a  finer  colour, 
pigs  and  geefe  fhould  be  roafted  before  a  good  fire,  and 
turned  quick.  Hares  and  rabbits  require  time  and 
care,  to  lee  the  ends  are  roafted  enough ;  when  they  are 
half  roafted,  cut  the  neck*(kin,  and  let  out  die  blooc^ 
or  when  they  are  cut  up,  they  often  appear  bloody  at 

the  neck. 

We  muft  defire  the  cook  to  order  her  fire  according  to 
what  flie  is  to  drefs ;  if  any  thing  very  litde  or  thin,  thai 
a  pretty  litde  brifk  fire,  that  it  may  be  don^  quick  and 
nice ;  if  a  very  large  joint,  then  be  fure  a  good  fire  be 
{aid  to  cake :  let  it  be  dear  at  the  bottom ;  and  when 
your  meat  is  half  done,  move  the  ddpping-pan  andlpit 
a  little  fiom  the  fire,  and  ftir  up  a  good  briik  fire ;  for> 
according  to  the  goodnefs  of  your  fire,  your  meat  will 
be  done  fooner  or  later. 

As  foon  as  the  mkat  is  put  to  the  fiVe,  poiir  over  k 
fome  warm  water,  which  throw  away  5  this  is  very  neoef- 
fary  to  thofe  who  are  nice  in  the  drefling  their  meat>  it 
being  a  good  deal  handled  in  the  (pitting ;  fliake  fome 
flour  over  it,  bafte  it  with  butter,  and  do  not  put  it  too 
near  the  fire  -,  this,  with  fi-equendy  bafting  it,  a  briflc 
'fire,  and  albwing  time  enough^  are  the  only  means  of 
roafting  in  perfe&ion  -,  when  the  fteam  draw^to  the  fir<r, 

the 


$a6  SAGO. 

tke  nleat  is  done;  flour  and  bafte  it  juft  before  k  is  Seat 
» the  tabki  that  it  may  have  a  nice  froth ;  always  aUow 
«  kmger  time  for  the  ofteaC  to  ros^  in  frofty  weather^ 
t*ke  particular  ca^e  «o  have  the  ffHt  clean,  as  nothing  is 
Horc  dflfiignmthte  Aan  a  fpit-nttark;  aad  reoiember^ 
mhm  ^  iMai  is  half  done,  to  remove  the  drippuig^ 
|Hn  and  ifk  a  Ktde  from  the  firei  and  ftir  it ;  if  it  is  .a 
fpod  fke  befiare  the  meat  is  laid  d^wn,  once  ftitring  it 
wJM  in  ^eoef ai  roafi  a  joint  of  naeat.  Never  fak  the 
meat  bifbre  k  is  put  to  the  ike,  it  draws  out  die  :g^vy 
t)Qa  roacfa ;  if  it  is  to  be  kept  fome  time  before  it  is 
ifeeftd^  as  indeed  mutton  and  beef  are  liot  gpod  frdh 
hiHsDi,  be  fure  to  dry  it  wdl  wkk  a  clothj  and  haf^  it 
triicreit  wiH  hove  a  thorough  air ;  look  at  it  every  day, 
and  wipe  off  all  the  damp  i  it  will  keep  a  loiq^.  time. 
&»K  pepper  it  a  litde* 


RUFFS    AND    REEFS. 

Thefe  bicds  arc  priocipaBy  Ibund^ia  :Lincolaihirc» 
Tl^ey  may  be  htscA,  Kke  chickens,  yfifh  lmad>  milk> 
and  fogar* .  They  feed  very  fafi^  and  will:  die  mih  £it  if 
not  killed  in  timr*  i>saw  and  trufs  them  <!ro&-kgged 
like  fiiipes;  roaft  them.  For  fauee— «gpod  gravy 
thickened  with  butter,  and  a  teaO:  under  them* 


SAGO. 


To  three  quarters  of  a  pint  of  water  put«  lai^ge^fpcWH* 

ful  of  fago,  ftir  it,  and  boil  it  fofrly  till  it  is  as  tfcic*  ^ 

you 


SALMON,  ,    S2i 

you  would  have  k ;  then  put  in  wine  and  fug«r,  wttk  a 
little  mitmeg  to  your  palate. — See  PuopiNo. 


SALMON. 

Tite/7  Salmon.  It  requires  to  be  welMx>tfed.  A 
piece  not  very  thick  will  take  half  an  hoiv.  BoilhoHe^ 
radiih  in  die  water.  Fried  finelts  may  be  kkt  round  k. 
Garnifh  with  horfe^radifh  and  fliced  lemon.  Anchovy 
iauce,  and  plain  butter. 

Another  way.  Scale  your  fiilmon,  take  out  the  bloody 
wafli  it  weH>  and  lay  it  on  a  fifh-plate ;  put  your  wate# 
in  a  fifh-pan  with  a  litde  lalt :  when  it  b<Hls>  put  ia 
your  fifh  for  half  a  minute,  then  take  it  out  for  a  minute 
or  two :  when  you  have  done  it  four  times,  boil  it  tiH 
it  is  enough.  When  you  take  it  out  of  the  fUh-pan,  fet 
it  over  the  water  to  drain  j  cover  it  well  with  a  clean 
cloth  dipped  in  hot  water ;  fry  Ibme  fmall  fiihes,  or  9, 
ftw  ilices  of  falmon,  and  lay  round  it.  Garniih  with 
icraped  hoHe-radifh  and  foinel. 

To  hil  Salmoij  crijp.  When  the  falmon  is  fcaled 
and  gutted,  cut  off  the  head  and  tail,  cut  the  bodjr 
through  into  flices  an  in(^h  and  a  half  thick,  throw  them 
into  a  large  pan  of  pump- water.  When  they  are  all  put 
in,  Iprinkle  a  handful  of  bay  fait  upon  the  water,  ftir  it 
abeuc,  and  then  take  out  the  fifh ;  fet  on  a  large  deep 
ftewpan,  boil  the  head  and  tail,  but  do  not  iplic  the 
head ;  put  in  ibnne  fait,  but  no  vinegai.  When  the^ 
have  boiled  ten  minutes,  fkim  the  water  v^  clean,  and 
put  in  the  ilices ;  when  they  are  boiled  enough,  take 
diem  9Mt,  lay  the  head  and  tb<  tail  in  the  dilh,  and  the 

Aices 


32t  B   A    L    U    O    NT* 

flices  round.  This  muft  be  for  a  laige  com|>any.  The 
head  or  uul  may  be  dreiled  alone^  or  with  one  or  two 
flices ;  or  the  dices  alone. 

It  is  done  in  great  perfection  in  the  falmon  countries; 
but,  if  th»  falmon  is  very  freflij  it  will  be  very^  good  in 
London^ 

Another  w^  to  boil  Salmon.  Take  a  bit  of  lalnioii> 
of  any  bigneis,  without  being  fcaled;  tie  it  up  in  a 
doth^  or  with  packthread ;  put  it  in  a  veflel  much  of 
its  bignefs,  with  a  good  bit  of  butter  or  broth,  and  half 
red  wine,  fait,  whole  pepper,  a  faggot  of  parfley,  thyme, 
laurel,  two  or  three  cloves,  bits  of  tarrots,  and  diced 
onions.  When  done,  drain  it,  and  fcrve  it  upon  a  nap- 
kin, and  the  fauces  in  boats. 

Another  way.  Take  a  piece  of  falmon,  of  what  big* 
nefs  you  pleafe,  foak  it  according  to  your  judgement, 
and  boil  it  a  litde  $  then  drain  it,  and  pull  it  in  flakes. 
Make  a  fauce  with  a  piece  of  butter  and  flour,  a  little 
pepper,  chopped  parfley,  one  clove  of  garlick  bruiied^ 
and  fome  good  cream ;  make  the  fauce  pretty  thick^ 
and  put  the  falmon  to  it ;  give  it  a  few  turns  on  the 
fire,  then  put  it  on  the  di(h  you  intend  for  table ;  flrew 
it  over  with  bread-crumbs,  and.  bafte  it  widi  butter. 
Give  it  a  colour  in  the  oven,  with  a  falamander,  or  be« 
fore  the  fire. 

• 

Salmon  a-la-bralfe.  Make  a  force-meat  thus:— 
Take  a  large  eel,  flit  it  open,  take  out  the  bone,  and 
take  the  meat  quite  clean  from  i( ;  chop  it  fine,  with 
•two  anchovies,  fome  lemon-peel  cut  fine,  a  litde  pepper, 
and  grated  nutmeg,  with  fome  parfley  and  thyme  cut 
fine,  a  yolk  of  an  egg  boiled  hard :  mix  them  ail  toge- 
ther, and  roll  them  up  in  a  piece  of  butter  i  th«n  take 

a  large 


S    A    L    M    O    N*  349 

a  large  pitce  of  fine  falmon,  or  a  falmon-trout,  put  the 
force-meat  in  the  belly  of  die  fifh,  few  it  up,  and  lay  it 
in  an  oral  ftcwpan  that  will  juft  hold  it ;  then  take  half 
a  pound  of  frcfh  butter,  put  it  into  a  ftewpan ;  when  it 
is  meteed,  fliake  in  a  little  flour  j  Air  it  till  it  is  a  little 
brown,  then  put  to  it  a  pint  offilh  broth,  with  a  pint  of 
Madeira.  Ses^n  ic  with  fak,  mace,  clores,  and  whole 
pepper,  tied  in  a  muflin  rag ;  put  in  an  onion  and  a 
bunch  of  fweet  herbs ;  ftir  it  all  together,  and  put  it  to 
die  fifli :  cover  it  down  very  dole,  and  Jet  it  ftew. 
When  the  fifli  is  aimoft  done,  put  in  fbme  frefh  ot 
pickled  mutiiroonuj  truffles,  or  morels,  -  cut  in  pieces  1 
let  them  ftew  all  together  till  the  filh  is  quite  done* 
Take  die  Salmon  up  carefiilly,  lay  it  in  a  difli,  and  pour 
the  fauce  over  it. 

To  roH  Salmoic.  Take  a  fide  of  falmbn ;  when  IpUt 
and  the  bone  taken  out  and  fcalded,  ftrew  ovtr  the  in- 
fide,  pepper,  lak,  nutmeg,  and  mace,  a  few  diopped 
oyfters,  parfley,  and  crumbs  of  bread,  roU  it  up  tight, 
put  it  into  a  deep  pot,  and  bake  it  in  a  quick  oven ; 
make  the  common  fifh  fauce  and  pour  over  it.  Gamifh 
"with' fennel,  lemon,  and  horfe-radifh. 

To  byoil  Salmon.  Cut  your  frelh  falmon  into  thick 
pieces,  and  flour  them  and  broil  them  j  lay  them,  in 
your  difli,  and  fcrve  them  up  with  plain  mcked  butter 
in  a  boat. 

Another  "way.  Cut  fome  ilices  from  a  frefli  falmon^ 
wipe  them  dean  and  dry :  melt  fome  butter  (mooth  and 
fine^  with  a  Kttle  flour  and  baikct  fak ;  put  the  pieces 
of  falnK>n  into  it,  and  roll  them  about,  that  the  butter 
may  cover  them  all  over :  then  lay  -them  on  a  nice  clean 
gridiron^  and  broil  them  over  a  dear  but  very  flow  firc# 

Vol.  IL  U  u  WhUc 


330  SALMON* 

While  the  falmon  is  broiling,  make  fauce  with  a  coi^Ic 
of  anchovies,  waihed,  boned,  and  cut  into  fmall  pleces^ 
and  a  leek  cut  into  three  or  four  long  pieces.  Set  on  a 
/aucepan  with  fbme  butter  and  a  little  flour,  put  in  the 
ingredients,  with  fome  capers  cut  fmall,  ibme  pepper 
and  fait,  and  a  litde  nutmeg  j  add  to  them  Ibme  warm 
water,  a^id  two  fpoonfuls  of  vinj^ar  i  fliake  the  ikuce- 
pan  till  it  boils,  and  the  fa^ce  is  done.  When  the  fal* 
mon  is  enough  on  one  fide,  turn  it  on  the  other  till  ic  is 
quite  enough ;  take  the  leek  out  of  the  iauce,  pour  it 
into  a  difb,  and  lay  the  broiled  falmon  upon  it. 

Saxmon  in  Cafes.  Cut  your  falmon  intofinall  piecesi 
fuch  as  will  lay  rolled  in  half  fheets  of  paper :  feafon  it 
with  pepper,  fait,  and  nutmeg  $  butter  the  infide  of  the 
paper  well,  fold  the  paper  fo  as  nothing  can  come  out, 
then  lay  them  in  a  tin  plate  to  be  baked ;  pour  a  little 
meked  butter^over  the  papers,  and  then  crumbs  of  bread 
over  them.  Do  not  let  your  oven  be  too  hot,  for  fear 
of  burning  the  paper.  A  tin  oven  before  the  fire  does 
beft.  When  you  think  they  are  enough,  fcrve  them  up 
juft  as  they  are.  There  will  be  fauce  enough  in  the  pa- 
pers ;  or  put  the  falmon  in  buttered  papers  only,  and 
broil  them. 

Salmon  wilh  Shrimp  fauce.  Of  a  falmon,  the  jowl 
is  preferred  to  any  other  part  -,  notch  it  to  the  bone  on 
both  fides  about  an  inch  apart,  lay  it  in  a  marinade,  put 
it  intp  a  long  ftewpan  jufl:  its  bigne(s,  if  you  can, 
/tvith  a  filh-plate  under  it,  that  you  may  take  it 
out  without  breaking ;  put  to  it  a  pint  of  white  wine, 
a  dalh  of  vinegar,  Ibme  fweet  bafil  and  thyme,  whole 
pepper,  fait,  and  mace,  two  or  three  fhallots,  a  bunch 
.i^f  p<irQey  and  green  onions  s  pour  in  as  much  water  as 

will 


SALMON-  33t 

trill  juft  cover  it,  let  your  lid  be  fhut  clofc  upon  it,  and,* 
about  an  hour  before  your  dinner,  put  it  over  a  flow^ 
ftovc  to  fimmer,  and  prepare  your  fauce  as  follows :— ' 
Provide  as  many  fmall  prawns  or  fhrimps  (the  tails 
only)  as  you  think  neceffary  for  your  piece  of  falmon ;. 
put  into  your  ftewpan  to  them  a  proportionate  quantity 
of  cuUis  $  add  to  it  a  little  bafil,  pimpernel,  thyme,  and 
parfley,  all  minced  very  fine,  with  a  dalh  of  white  wine. 
Boil  all  about  a  quarter  of  an  hour,  fqueeze  in  the  juice 
of  a  lemon  or  two.  Take  care  that  the  falmon  is 
well  drained,  put  it  into  your  dilh ;  pour  your  fauce 
over,  and  ferve  it  up.  Gamilh  with  lemons  cut  in 
quarters. 

Trouts  may  be  done  in  the  fame  manner. 

Hajlets  of  Salmon-.  Cut  the  falnfion  in  middling 
pieces ;  feafon  them  with  fweet  herbs,  pepper,  and  fait, 
mixed  with  butter,  and  the  yolk  of  a  raw  egg  or  two  ^ 
Ikewer  them  like  hailets,  with  all  the  feafoning.;  ftrew 
them  with  bread-crumbs,  and  either  roaft  or  boil  them, 
balling  with  oil  or  butter.  When  they  are  done  of  a 
good  colour,  ferve  dry,  with  what  fauce  you  think  pro- 
per in  a  boat. 

Salmon  with  fweet  herbs.  Take  a  piece  of  butter, 
and  mix  it  with  chopped  pariley,  ihallots,  fweet  herbs, 
muflirooms,  pepper,  and  fait;  put  fome  of  this  in  the 
bottom  of  the  dilh  you  intend  for  table,  then  fome  thin 
llices  of  falmon  upon  it,  and  the  remainder  of  the  butter 
and  herbs  upon  the  falmon ;  ftrew  it  over  with  bread* 
crumbs,  and  b^fte  it  with  butter  j  bake  it  ip  the  oven. 
When  it  is  done,  ^xz!y\  the  fat  from  it,  ai)d  ferve  with  a 
dear  relifhing  fauce. 

Uu  2  To 


33*  SAUCE    S. 

To  drefs  dried  Salmon,  Iaj  your  dried  fidiMa  lit 
^ak  fi>r  two  or  three  hours,  then  lay  it  on  the  giri^rcm, 
^d  Ihakc  a  little  pepper  over  it. 

to  drefs  a  J(ml  of  pickled  Sai^moit.  Lay  your  &InKm 
in  frelh  water  all  nig^^  then  lay  it  in  a  fifh-platei  put 
it  into  a  large  ftewpan,  fealbn  it  with  a  little  whdbpq>« 
iper,  a  blade  or  two  of  mace  tied  in  a  coprfe  myOin  rag^ 
a  whol$  onionj  a  nutmeg  bruised,  a  bulidle  of  fweet 
herbs  and  parfley,  a  little  kn)on-peel ;  puc  td  it  tfatee 
Urge  fpoDnfuls  of  vineg^^  a  pint  of  white  wine,  aad  a 
quarter  of  a  pound  of  fi-e0i  butter  rolled  in  flour  i  cover 
it  clofe^  and  let  it  fimmer  over  a  flow  fire  for  a  quarter 
of  an  hour,  then  carefully  take  up  your  falmon,  and  lay 
it  in  your  diih  j  fet  it  over  hot  water  and  cover  it.  In 
the  mean  time,  let  your  fauce  boil  till  it  is  thick  and 
good.  Take  out  the  fpice,  onion,  and  fweet  herbs,  and 
pour  it  over  the  fifli*    Gamifh  with  lonaon* 


SAUCES, 

jifple  Sauce.  Pare,  core,,  and  flice  your  apples, 
then  put  a  little  water  in  the  fauccpan  to  keep  them 
from  burning,  and  a  bit  of  lemon-peel.  When  they 
ate  enough,  take  out  the  peel,  bruife  the  apples,  add  a 
luftip  of  buttpr,  and  a  little  fugar. 

Onion  Sauce.    Boil  eight  or  ten  large  onions,  change 

the  Water  tWo  or  three  times,  while  they  are  boiling. 

When  enqjgh,  chop  diem  on  a  board,  to  keep  them 

from  growing  of  a  bad  colour ;  put  them  in  a  faucepan 

with  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  butter,  and  two  Q)OonfuIs 

pf  thick  cream  ^  boil  it  a  little^  and  pour  it  byer  your 

difli,  . 

Ano- 


SAUCES*  33J 

Jnother  way.  Having  peded  ]roiir  oniony  boii  tlkm 
in  milk  and  water^  put  a  turnip  with  them  into  the  poc 
(it  draws  out  die  ftrength)  i  change  the  water  twke ; 
pulp  them  through  a  cullender,  or  chop  them;  then 
put  them  in  a  faucepan  with  fome  cream,  a  piece  of 
butter,  a  little  flour,  fome  pepper  and  ialL  Tbej  muft 
be  very  (mooth. 

Goofeberry  Saucs«  Put  fome  coddled  goo&berries^ 
a  litde  juice  of  forrd,  and  a  little  ginger,  into  Ibme 
melted  butter* 

Fennel  Sauce.  Having  boiled  a  bunch  of  fennel  and 
parfley,  chop  it  fmall,  and  ftir  into  fome  melted  butten 

Bread  Sauce.  Put  a  pretty  laige  piece  of  crumb  of 
bread,  that  is  not  new^  into  half  a  pint  of  water,  with 
an  onion,  a  blade  of  mace,  and  a  few  pepper- corns- in 
a  bit  of  cloths  boil  thefe  a  few  minutes ;  take,  out  the 
onion  and  fpice,  ma(h  die  bread  very  fnKX)th,  add  a 
piece  of  butter,  and  a  litde  lalt. 

Bread-fauce  for  a  pig  is  made  the  fame,  with  the 
addition  of  a  few  Currants  picked,  waihed,  and  boiled 
in  it. 

Mni  Sauce.  Wafh  your  mint  perfedly  clean  from 
grit  and  dirt,  chop  it  very  fine,  and  put  to  it  vinegar 
and  fugar. 

Saucb  Robert.  Cut  feme  large  onions  into  fquare 
pieces,  cut  Ibme  fat  bacon  in  the  fame  manner,  put 
them  together  into  a  faucepan  over  the  fire,  (hake  them 
round  to  prevent  their  burning.  When  they  are  brown^ 
put  in  fome  good  veal  gravy,  with  a  little  pepper  and 
iidt ;  let  them  ifcew  gently  till  the  onions  are  tender,  then 
put  in  a  litde  ialt,  fome  muftard  and  yinegar^  and  ierve 
it  hot. 

Ano^ 


33*  SAUCES. 

Another  way.  Slice  fcvio-al  onions,  fry  them  in  but- 
ter, turning  often  till  they  take  colour ;  then  add  a  lit- 
tle cuUis  and  good  broth,  pepper  and  fait ;  let  them 
boil  half  an  hour,  and  reduce  to  a  fauce ;  v^hen  ready, 
add  muftard.  You  may  fift  it  for  thofc  who  otdy  like 
-  the  flavour  of  onions. 

Anchovy  Sauce.  Put  an  anchovy  into  a  pint  of  gravy, 
then  take  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  butter  rolled  in  flour, 
and  fkir  all  together  till  it  boils.    You  may  add  a  little 
juice  of  a  lemon,  catchup,  red  wine,  and  walnut  liquor, . 
juft  as  you  think  proper. 

Plain  butter  melted  thick,  with  a  fpoonful  of  walnut 
pickle,  or  catchup,  is  a  good  fauce,  or  anchovy :  in 
Ihort,  you  may  put  as  many  things  as  you  pleafe  into 
fauce. 

Shrimp  Sauce.     Wafh  half  a  pint  of  fhrimps  very . 
clean,  and  put  them  into  a  ftewpan,  with  a  fpoonful  of 
anchovy  liquor,  and  a  ^ound  of  butter  melted  thick ; 
boil  it  up  for  five  minutes,  andfqueeze  in  half  a  lemon. 
Tofs  it  up,  and  put  it  into  ypur  fauce-boat. 

Another  way.  Mix  a  good  handfome  piece  of  butter 
with  fome  flour,  boil  it  up  in  fome  rich  gravy ;  put  yi 
the  ihrimps ;  give  them. a  boil. 

To  crifp  farjley.  Having  picked  and  wafhed  your . 
parfley,  pi^  it  into  a  Dutch  oven,  or  on  a  fheet  of 
paper  \  do  not  iet  it  too  near  the  fire  5  turn  it  till  it  is 
quite  crifp :  lay  little  bits  of  butter  on  it,  but  not  to 
be  greafy.  It  is  a  better  method  than  that  of  frying. 
•  Vlain  Sour  Sauce.  Take  fome  frelh  Ibrrel-leaves, 
pick  oflf  the  flalks,  bruife  the  leaves,  and  put  theft)  in 
a  plate  with  their  juice ;  ilrew  on  fome  .pepper  and  b\t% 
ftir  it  all  together,  and  ferve  it  cold. 

mite 


SAUCES.  ^J5 

.  lyhiU  SAVCzfor  Fijh.  Having  waihed  two  ancho«> 
vieSj  put  them  into  a  faucepanj  ^ith  one  glafs  of  white 
wine^  and  two  of  water^  half  a  nutm^,  and  a  litde  le- 
mon-peel. When  it  has  boiled  five  or  fix  minutes, 
ftrain  it  through  a  fieve:  add  to  it  a  fpoonfiil  of  white 
wine  vinegar^  thicken  it  a  little^  then  put  in  near  a 
pound  of  butter  rolled  in  flour  i  boil  it  well^  and  pour 
it  hot  upon  your  filh. 

7()  make  Sauce  for  Fcnvls.  Boil  any  bones  or  bits  of 
vea},  with  a  fmall  bunch  of  fweet  herbs^  an  onion^  a 
nice  of  lemon,  a  few  white  pepper-corns,  and  a  little 
(celery ;  ftrain  it ;  there  ihould  be  near  half  a  pint  ^  put 
to  it  fome  good  cream,  with  a  litde  flour  mixed  imooth 
in  it>  a  good  piece  of  butter,  a  little  pounded  mace,  and 
ibme  fait ;  keep  it  ilirring ;  add  muflirogms,  or  a  little 
lemon  juice* 

lyiite  Sauce  for  Fowls  or  Chickens.  Take  a  little 
flrong  veal  gravy,  with  a  little  white  pepper,  mace^ 
and  fait,  boiled  in  it  s  have  it  clear  from  any  flcin  or  ht ; 
as  much  cream,  with  a  little-flour  mixed  in  the  cream, 
A  litde  mountain  wine  to  your  liking :  boil  it  oip  gently 
for  five  minutes,  then  ftrain  it  over  your  chickens  or 
fowls,  or  in  boats. 

.  J  white  Sauce  for  Veal.  To  a  pint  of  good  veal 
gravy  put  a  fpoonful  of  lemon-pickle,  half  a^  anchovy, 
a  tea-fpoonful  of  mufliroom  powder^  or  a  few  pickled 
mufhrooms ;  give  it  a  gende  boil ;  then  put  in  half  a 
pint  of  cream,  the  yolks  of  two  eggs  beat  finei 
ihake  it  over  the  fire  after  the  eggs  and  cream  are 
in,  but  do  not  let  it  boil,  as  that  would  curdle  .the 

cream* 

Sauce 


53«  S    A    U    C    E    S. 

Sactce  Ravfg6ti€  a^-Reurgeoifi.  Pfcmdc  fomc  Ctgc, 
pflrfley,  a  litde  mint^  thyme^  and  bafil^  tie  diem  in  a 
bunchy  and  put  chenn  into  a  (aucepan  of  boHing  watery 
let  diem  hok\  a  rnmute5  then  take  them  out>  and  iqueeze 
tfie  water -from  tfaem$  cKop  diem  vety  fioe^  and  add  to 
diem  a  dove  of  garlicky  and  two  large  onions  minced 
fine:  put  diem  into  a  ftewpan  with  half  a  pintof  brodi^ 
Ibme  pepper^  and  a  little  fait  i  boil  them  up,  and  put  ia 
« Ipoonful  of  vinegar, 

Sauc£  a-la^Nsverftois.  P\it  in  a  (frnSk  fte>f7pan  tnvo 
flices  of  ham,  a  ctove  of  gwKck,  a  laurd4eaf,  flked 
onions  ahd  roots ;  lee  it  catch,  then  add  a  litde  braift> 
two  (poonfuls  of  cuUis,  a  fpoonful  of  tarragon  vinegars 
Atw  It  an  hour  on  «  ikyw  fire,  then  fift  it  throu^  a 
fieve,  and  ferve  it  for  a  refifhing  fimce, 

Savc2  for  Pheafanis  or  Partridges.    Thefe  birds  are 

•  •  • 

nfually  fcrved  up  with  gravy-fauce  ixi  the  diSi,    and 
bread-iaiice  in  a  boat. 

Sajitce  for  Wild  Duck,  Tea!,  ^f»  Take  a  proper 
quantity  of  veal  gravy,  wkh  feme  pepper  and  fait ; 
iqueeze  in  the  jtiice  of  two  Scv31e  oranges  j  add  a  fittlc 
red  wine,  and  let  die  red  wtne  boil  Same  time  in  die 
gravy. 

AftanUng  S  attoe  for  a  Kitchen.  Take  a  quart  of  ela* 
ret  or  while  wine,  put  it  in  a  gkzed  jar,  die  juice  df 
two  lemons,  five  large  anchovies,  fome  Jamaica  pep* 
per  whole,  fame  lliced  ginger,  fome  mace,  a -few  cloves, 
a  Iftde  lemon  peel,  horfe-radilh.  fliced,  ibme  (weet 
herbs,  fixIhaiHots,  two  ipoonfuls  of  capers,  and  their 
fcfuor ;  put  all  thefc  in  a  linen  bag,  and  put  it  into  the 
wine,  ftop  it  clofe,  and  fct  the  vcffcl  in  a  ketde  of  hot 

water 


SAUCES.  337 

water  for  an  hour^  and  keep  it  in  a  warm  place.    A 
ipoonful  or  two  of  this  liquor  is  good  in  any  (auce. 

Sauce  or  Lear  far  a  Jweet  Pie.  Take  Ibme  white 
wine,  lemon  juice,  or  verjuice,  and  Ibme  fugar  5  boil 
it>  then  beat  two  eggs>  and  mix  chem  well  together^ 
then  open  your  pic  and  pour  it  in.  This  may  be  ufed 
for  veal  or  lamb  pies. 

Very  good  Sauce  for  roajkd  NIeau  Take  an  anchovy, 
wa(h  it  very  clean,  and  put  to  it  a  glafs  of  red  wine,  a 
little  ftrong  broth  or  gravy,  fome  nutmeg,  one  IhaUot 
iliced,  and  the  juice  of  a  Seville  orange;  ftewthefeto^ 
gether  a  little,  and  pour  it  to  the  gravy  that  runs  from 
the  m^at. 

A  Travelling  Powder  for  Sauce.  Take  pickled 
mango,  and  let  it  dry  three  or  four  days  in  the  room  $ 
then  reduce  it  to  powder  by  grating  of  it.  To  fixouncea 
of  this  powder  add  three  ounces  of  mulhrooms  dried  in 
an  oven  and  powdered,  by  pounding  it  in  a  mortar  1  ' 
add  to  thefe  a  dram  of  mace  powdered,  half  a  dram  of 
cloves  in  powder,  or  inftead  of  the  two  laft  a  nutmeg 
grated,  and  a  dram  of  black  pepper  in  powder  1  having 
mixt  all  tbefejcogcther,  very  well,  fift  them  through  an 
hair-fieve  i  put  this  up  carefully  in  a  paper,  and  take  ic 
with  you  when  you  go  a  journey. 

Half  a  tea-fpoonful  of  this  powder  will  r^lifh  any 
iauce  you  have  a  mind  to  make  to  the  quantity  of  a 
quart,  when  it  is  warm. 

You  may,  tf  you  pleafe,  add  nine  or  ten  grains  of 
fwect  bafil,  or  of  fummcr  fweet  marjoram^  dried  and 
powdered. 

If  you  ufe  this  fauce  for  fifli,  adding  a  litde  anchovy  - 
and  white  wine,  it  will  be  very  good. 

Vol.  It.  X  X  Saucji 


^3»  $    A    U    C    E    S. 

Saucb  Poivrade.  Take  a  Ikde  huWSTi  diced  Oni<ms> 
bits  of  carroty  parilef-root,  two  cloves  of  garlick,  two 
cbtes^  a  laurel'feaf ;  (oak  all  tbgether  t^  h  t^e&  <x>- 
lour ;  then  add  fbme  cullis,  a  lird^  vinegar  Knd  broths* 
fak  and  pepper ;  boil  it  to  die  coAfiftence  cf  iauces  ^ 
flcim  and  fife  it  fdr  ufe. 

Another  way.  Take  half  a  pint  of  veal  gravy^  a  qoar- 
ter  of  a  pint  of  vinegar,  with  ten  young  ohiohs  whole,  a 
large  one  fliced^  and  half  an  anchovy ;  let  them  boil 
feme  time>  and  then  ftrain  it  off,  prefling  it  very  hard  % 
ad4  to  the  liqtior  a  litde  fait,  and  as  nrudi  pepper  at 
Will  make  it  agreeable  to  the  tafte. 

Parjlrf  and  Butter.  Tie  up  Ibme  parfley  in  a  bunch; 
walli  it,'  and  put  it  into  fome  boiling  Water  with  %  Itede 
iaks  after  it  has  boiled  up  very  quick  two  or  diree 
lim^s,  take  ill  out  and  chop  it  very  finti  dim  itiit  it 
with  foine  melted  butter. 

Foot  MatCs  Sauce.  Cut  (bihe  young  onions  into 
Water,  with  fome  chopped  parfley.  It  is  very  good 
with  roailed  mutton. 

Or,  flice  half  a  lemon,  boil  it  in  a  litde  broth  with 
two  Or  thr^e  chopped  Ihallots,  pepper  and  iai^  and  a 
ipooiiful  of  oil ;  and  ferve  in  a  fauce-boat. 

Lemon  Sauce  for  boiled  Fowls.  Take  a  lemon  and 
pare  off  the  rind,  cut  it  intoflices,  and  taketht  kernels 
out,  cut  it  into  fquare  bits ;  bUuich  the  liver  of  the  fowl 
and  chop  it  fine ;  mix  the  lemon  and  liver  togedier  ib  a 
boat,  and  pour  fbme  hot  melted  butter  on  it,  and  f&c  it 
op..    Boiling  it  will  make  it  go  to  oil. 

Mijhroom  Sauce  for  white  Fowls  of  all  forts.  l*afce 
about  a  quart  of  frefh  ihufhrooms,  wdll  cleku»6d  and 
walhed,  cut  them  in  cwo>  putxhem  id  a  fteif^n,  witb 

a£t« 


M    A    tt   C    t    S.  $.j^ 

«iittte  Butter,  a  Ua^c  dfqiace^  and  a  Ifttle  fait;  ft^wit 
gttidf  ibr  half  w  iiour,  tfaep  add  a  piiit  of  cream,  and 
the  yolks  of  two  eggs  beat  very  well,  and  keep  ftixring 
it  till  itiboils  up ;  then  fqu^eselialf  a  lemon,  put  it  over 
your  SawU  or  turki^s,  or  in  bafons,  or  in  a  dilfa,  with  a 
piece  of  f  rench  breads  firft  buttered,  ^en  toal^ed 
(blown,  and  juft  dip  it  in  boiling  water  *,  put  it  in  die 
dUh,  and  die  myflirooms  over  it. 

Mother  way.  Take  a  piece  of  butccr,  mix  it  wit|i 
flougr ;  boil  it  up  in  fome  cream,  not  forgetdng  to  ihakc 
.the  faucepan;  throw  in  loQie  muihrooms,  ialt>  and 
nutmegs  and  boil  it  up.  Or  you  nruy  put  the  mulb- 
raoms  into  butter  melted,  with  a  litde  veal,  gravy,  ialt^ 
and  grated  nutmeg. 

Ofkiy  Sauce.  .Wafk  and  clean  (en  heads  of  cdery, 
tut  off  t|ie  green  tops,  and  take  out  H\c  outfide  ftall^^ 
cut  them  into  thin  bits,  and  boil  it  in  gcavy  till  it  is  tei\<- 
der  i  thicken  it  withfbur  atid  l)vttef,*  and  pour  it  over 
your  meat.  A  Ihoulder  of  mutton^  or  a  fliqulder  of 
veal  roafied,  is  very  good  with  this  fauce% 

£aper  Sauce.  Take  (bme  czpetiSj  chqp  half  of  them^ 
put  die  nA  in  whole ;  chop  aUb  a  Utile  paiilQr  very 
fine,  with  a  litde  bread  grated  very  fine,  and  ibme  ialt^ 
put  tfaefe  into  butter  malted  very  finpoth.  Some  only 
chop  the  capen  a  little,  and  put  them  into  (he  butter* 

SbdUot  Sauce.  Take  five  or  fix  ihallots  chopped 
•fine,  put  them  into  a  faucepan  with  a  gill  of  gravy,  a 
fpoonfiil  of  vinegar,  and  ibme  pepper  and  fait;  ftew 
them  for  a  minute,  then  pour  them  into  your  diih^  or 
put  it  in  ^uce-boats. 

£^  Sauce.  Take  two  eggs  and  boil  them  hard  e 
firft  chop  the  whites^  then  the  yolks,  but  neither  of  them 

Xz  2  very 


:^jfiy  S    A    U    C    E    S« 

vciy  fine>  and  put  them  together ;  then  put  diem  into 
ft  quarter  of  a  pound  of  good  nndced  buttcfj  and  ftir 
diem  well  together. 

.  Qxfifr  Savce.  Take  a  pint  of  large  oyfters,  feald 
them,  and  then  ftrain  them  through  a  fieve,  wafh  the 
oyftcFS  very  dean  in  cold  w^ter,  and  take  the  beards 
off;  put  them  in  a  ftewpan,  pour  the  liquor  over  them, 
but  be  careful  to  pour  the  liquor  gently  out  of  the  veflol 
you  have  ftrained  it  into,  and  it  will  leave  all  the  fediment 
at  the  bottom,  which  you  muft  avoid  putting  into  your 
!ftewpan  -,  then  add  a  large  fpoonful  of  anchovy  liquor, 
two  blades  of  mace,  half  a  lemon,  enough  butter  rolled 
,in  Aqut  to  thicken  it ;  then  put  in  half  a  pound  of  but^ 
ter,  boil  it  up  till  the  butter  is  melted,  then  take  out  the 
.mace  and  lemon,  fqueeze  the  lemon-juipe  into  the  (auce, 
^ve  it  a  boil  up,  ftir  it  all  die  tipiie,  and  then  put  it  into 
your  boats  or  batons. 

You  may  put  ip  a  fpoonful  of  catchup,  or  tluc  fame 
quantity  of  mountain  wine. 

Sauce  for  a  boiled  Salmon.  Having  boUed  a  bunch 
of  fennel  and  parfley,  chop  them  fhuU,  and  put  it  into 
•^me  good  mdted  butter,  ^nd  iend  it  to  t-abk  in  a  fauce«- 
Jboat ;  another  with  gravy-fauce. 

To  make  the  gravy-fauce,  put  a  Utde  brown  gravy 
into  a  faucepan  with  one  anchovy,  a  tea-fpoonful  of  le-^ 
mon-pickle,  a  meat-fpoonful  of  liqiior  from  your  wal- 
nut-pickle, one  or  two  Ipoonfuls  of  the  water  that  the 
fifh  was  boiled  in,  it  gives  a  pleafant  flavour  -,  a  ftick  of 
horfe-radiih,  a  litde  browning  and  fait  i  boil  them  three 
or  four  minutes,  thicken  it  with  flqur  and  a  good  lump 
pf  butter,  and  ftrain  it  through  a  hair  ficve, 

Tl^s  is  a  good  fauce  for  vno&  kinds  of  fift* 


1 

I 


SAUCES.  54t 

An  excellent  S  attce  for  mofi  kinds  of  Fijh.  Take  fomc 
mutton  or  veal  gravy^  put  to  it  a  little  of  the  water  that 
drains  Srom  your  fifh ;  when  boiled  enough^  put  it  into 
a  iaucepan,  and  put  in  a  whole  onion,  one  anChovy,  a 
Ipoomflil  of  catchup,  and  a  gla&  of  white  wine ;  thicken 
it  with  a  htmp  of  butter  rcdled  in  Bdur,  and  aipoonful 
of  cream ;  if  you  have  oyfters,  cx)ckle$, .  or  flirknps,  put 
them  in  after  you  take  it  off  the  fire,  but  it  is  extremely 
good  without.  You  may  uie  red  wine  inftead  of  white^ 
by  leaving  out  th6  cream. 

Pontiff  Sauc£.  Sodk  Ibme  flices  of  vea}»  halt),  flked 
onions,  carrots,  parfley,  a  head  of  cekcy ;  let  it  oux^h  $ 
then  add  a  little  white  wine,  and  fome  good  broth,  a 
clove  of  garlick,  four  Ihallots,  two  cloves,  a  litde  co-> 
riander,  two  flices  of  peeled  lemon;  boil  on  a  flo.w  fire 
till  the  meat  is  done ;  Ikim  it,  and  fift  it  in  a  lieve ;  add 
a  little  cuUis,  and  fome  fine  chopped  parfley, .  a  Jittk 
before  you  ufe  it. 

Sauce  for  Cod's  Head.  Chufe  a  good  lobfter ;  if 
it  be  alive,  ftick  a  ikewer  in  the  rent  of  the  tail  to  keep 
out  the  water ;  throw  a  handful  of  fait  into  the  water, 
and,  when  it  boils,  put  in  the  lobfter,  which  muft  boll 
half  an  hour.  If' it  has  fpawn,  pick  them  off,  and 
pound  them  exceedingly  fine  in  a  marble  monzr :  put 
them  into  half  a  pound  of  melted  butter,  then  take  the 
meat  out  of  your  lobfter,  pull  it  in  bits,  and  put  it  in 
your  butter,  with  a  large  fpoonful  of  lemon-pickle,  the 
fame  quantity  of  walnut-catchup,  a  flice  of  an  end  of  a 
lemon,  one  or  two  flices  of  horfe-radifli,  as  much  beaten 
,mace  as  will  lie  on  a  fixpence,  and  feaibn  to  your  tafte 
with  fait  and  kyan  pepper ;  boil  them  one  minute,  and 
then  take  out  the  h<»fe*radifli  and  lemon,  and  ferve  it 

in 


> 


34«  S     ilt    U    S    A    G    £    S. 

in  your  £tuce-boat.  if  lohfters  carax^t  be  bad^^yoir 
jna^make  uie  of  ojAers  or  flurop^  ^  (amevajr :  and 
ityxxa  cao  get  no  kind  offhoH-fiihy  t^'i^  niay  then  add 
two  anchovies  qatifiDall,  a/fpoonfiiliof  .waJnut^liquor^ 
4nd  a  laigr  onion  ftuck  iaith  cloves^    - 

j^pic  Sav43£.  « ii&Rjic  idievriH^  taiTa§oo^  burnctj  gar- 
deiKodSy  and  a  Itcdemint,  ina  littile  ^cqliis^  ibr  aboM 
hsM  an bour ;  iiien£ft it^  and  add  to  it  a ^xxxiful  of 
gaffick-^vinegaT)  P^P^>  andialts  ieuve  up  in  a  fauces- 
boat. 

L6ijfiir  Sauce.  Bratfe  the-  body  of  a  lobfter  into 
chick  Aidbcd  butter^^^and  cut  diedfe^  into  it  in  fiiudi 
pieces;  ftew  aU  together,  and  give  it  abcnl;  feaibn 
iimh  a  lit^e  ^pepper,  falt^  and  a  very  fmoll  quantity  of 
mace. 

jlMO$her  way.  Procuiae  a  k>bfter  that  has  a  good  deal 
oTipawni  pull  die  rQ«at  to  pieces  with  a  fi)rk,  do  i|ot 
chop  it$  bruife  the  body  and  the  fpattrnvftth  the  back 
^f  a  fpoon ;  break  the  tbtll,  boil  it  in  ^  litde  water  to 
give  it  a  colour ;  ftrain  it  off,  melt  &>mc  butter  in  it 
very  fmooth^  with  a  little  liode«»radiiK  and  a  very  litdc 
kyan  $  take  out  the  horie-radifli,  .mix^he  body  of  die 
lobfter  well  with  the  bucterj  then  add -die  meat,  and  give 
it  a  boil,  with  a  fpoonful  of  catchup  or  gravy,  if  agree- 
able«    Some  people  choofeonly  plain  butter. 


wir«^«M 


S    A    U    S    A    G    E    §. 

•Common  Sausages.  Take  three  pounds  of  nice  pork, 
fat  and  lean  together,  free  from  (kin  or  griftles,  chop  it 
very  (ine^  feafon  it  with  two  tea-fpoonfuk  of  (alt,  and 

one 


S    A   tJ    S    A    6    E    S.  j4$ 

tJne  of  beaten  J)cppcr,  feme  iage  Ared  fine,  about  thr^ 
te^-fpoonfuls  j  mix  it  well  togctfier>  feve  fte  guts  v<Tf 
nicely  deantd  and  fHI  them,  or  put  thcfn  do^h  ih  a 
pot  t  fo  rdl  tfieitT  of  what  fize  you  pleafe^  and  frj^ 
them. 

MitfoH.SAVSAcis  rimy  be  made  in  Acf  fzTMrmahct^ 
omttfing  the  fage,  and  adding  a  fitde  tlratei- ;  thyme; 
marjoram;  and  nutmeg  to  the  feafoning. 

Oiford  SAVSAo^i  Take  a  pound  of  yotiftg  poflc, 
ftt  and  Icffli  without  fkin  or  griftle,  a  pound  of  Icatt 
real,  and  a  poiind  of  beef  luct,  chopped  all  fine  toge- 
ther? put  in  half  a  pound  of  grated  bread,  half  the  ptd 
of  a  lehfion  Ihred  flne>  a  nutnteg  grated,  fix  f^e  leaver 
walhcd  and  dtdppted  very  fine,  a  tea-fpoonful  of  pepper, 
and  t^6  of  fait,  fomc  thyme,  favoury,  and  marjoram, 
flirfed  fine  *,  rtiix  it  ^  well  together,  and  put  it  dofc 
doWn  in  a  pan  when  you  ufe  it ;  roll  it  out  the  fize  of  a 
coitithon  faulage,  and  fry  them  in  fi^efli  butter  of  a  fine 
brown,  or  broil  them  over  a  clear  fire,  and  fend  them 
to  table  a^  hot  as  pofllble. 

firie  SAJSSAGts.  Take  part  of  a  leg  of  pork  or  vea1, 
pick  it  clean  fit>m  ikin  or  fat ;  to  every  pound  add  two 
jjounds  bf  beef  ftiet ;  fhred  both  feverally  very  fine ;  * 
liiik  tfietn  well  with  fege  leaves  chopped  fine,  pepper, 
fait,  nutmeg,  and  pounded  cloves,  and  a  little  grated 
lemon-peel ;  put  this  clofe  down  in  a  pot.  When  it  is 
ufed,  mix  it  with  the  yolk  of  an  egg,  and  a  few  bread- 
crumbs.   Roll  ic  into  lengths. 

Another  way.    To  a  couple  of  pounds  of  lean  pork 
put  tftrec  pounds  of  chine  fht,   free  from  Ikin*,  fome 
pounded  cloves^  pepper  and  fait,  and  fome  fige-teaVcS' 
cliiojpped  J  beat  it  fine,  and  iitbcr  pitfi  it  intx>  piitr,  and . 

Y  '  roll 


344  S    C    A    T    £• 

roll  it  when  it  is  iifed,  or  put  it  into  (kins.    Beef  and 
Juet  make  very  good  lauiages. 

Anoiher  fort.  Take  fix  pounds  of  good  pork^  fite 
fromikin^  griftlesj  and&t;  cut  it  very  fmali^  and  beat 
it  in  a  mortar  till  it  is  very  fine;  then  fhred  fix  pounds 
of  beef  fuet  very.  fine>  and  firee  fix>m  all  Ikin;  ihred  it 
as  fine  as  poflible  i  then  take  a  good  deal  of  fage,  waih 
it  very  clean^  pick  ofi^  the  leaves,  and  fiired  it  very  fine : 
Ipread  your  meat  on  a  clean  drefler  or  table,  then  fliake 
the  fage  all  over,  about  three  large  (poonfiils ;  fhred  the 
diin  rind  of  a  middling  lemon  very  fine  and  throw  over> 
with  as  many  fweet  herbs,  when  Ihred  fine,  as  will  fill, 
a  large  fpoon;  grate  two  nutmegs  over,  throw  over 
two  tea-ipoonfiils  of  pepper,  and  a  large  fpoonfiil  of 
£dt  I  then  throw  over  the  fuet,  and  mix  it  all  well  toge- 
ther :  put  it  down  clofe  in  a  pot.  When  you  ufe  them, 
roll  them  up  with  as  mxich  egg  as  will  make  them  roll 
finooth.  M^e  them  the  fize  of  a  faufage,  and  fi-y  them 
in  butter  or  good  dripping.  Be  fure  it  be  hot  before  you 
put  them  in,  and  keep  them  rolling  about:  when'they 
ve  thoroughly  hot,  and  of  a  fine  light  brown,  they  arc 
^ough*  You  may  chop  this  meat  very  fine,  if  you  do 
oot  like  it  beat«  Veal  eats  well  done  thus;  or  veal  and 
pork  together.  You  may  clean  Ibme  guts  and  fill 
them. 


S    C    A    T    E. 

Tofricajee  Scats.  Cut  the  meat  firom  the  bones^ 
fins,  &c.  and  nuke  it  very  clean  i  then  cut  it  into  thin 
pieces,  about  an  inch  hro4d«  and  two  inqhos  long,  and 

lay 


-  • 
ft 


S  C  R  O  P  H  U  L  A.  345 

lay  them  in  your  (tewpan :  to  one  pound  of  the  flefh 
put  a  quarter  of  a  pint  of  water,  a  little  beaten  maccj 
Ibme  grated  nutmeg,  a  fmall  bundle  of  fweet  herbs,  and 
a  little  fait ;  cover  it,  and  let  it  boil  fifteen  miutes :  take 
out  the  Iweet  herbs,  put  in  a  quarter  of  a  pint  of  good 
cream,  a  piece  of  butter  the  fize  of  a  walnut,  rolled  in 
flour,  and  a  glais  of  white  wine.  Keep  ihaking  the  pan 
all  the  time  one  way,  till  it  is  thick  and  fmooth  $  then 
difh  it  up,  and  gamifh  with  lemon. 


SCRQPHULA. 

This  difeafe  chiefly  affeAs  the  glands,  efpecially  thofe 
of  the  neck.  It  is  one  of  thofe  difeafes  which  may  be 
removed  by  proper  regimen,  but  Icldom  yields  to  me- 
dicine. THe  inhabitants  of  cold,  damp,  marfhy  coun- 
tries are  moft  liable  to  the  fcrophula. 

Children  who  have  the  misfortune  to  be  born  of  fickly 
parents,  whofc  conftitutions  have  been  gready  injured 
by  chronic  difeafes,  are  apt  to  be  affedted  with  the 
fcrophula.  It  may  likewife  proceed  fix)m  fuch  difeafes 
as  weaken  the  habit  or  vitiate  the  humours,  as.  the 
finall  poxj  meafles,  &c.  and,  in  fhort,  whatever  tends 
to  vitiate  the  humours  or  relax  the  folids,  paves  the 
way  to  this  difeafe  j  as  the  want  of  proper  cxercife, 
too  much  heat  or  cold,  confined  air,  unwholefomc- 
food,  bad  water,  the  long  ufc  of  poor,  weak,  watery 
aliments,  the  negleft  of  cleanlinefs,  &c.  Nothing 
tends  more  to  induce  this  difeafe  in  children>  than  allow- 
ing them  to  continue  long  wet. 

Vol.  II.  Y  y  At 


^6  S  C  R  O  P  H  U  L  A. 

At  firft  fmall  knots  appear  under  the  chin  or  behind 
the  ears>  which  gradually  increafe  in  number  and  fize, 
till  tficy  form  one  large  hard  tumour :  this  often  con- 
tinues for  a  long  time  M^thout  breakiitg,  and  when  it 
does  break,  it  only  difcharges  a  thin  watery  humour. 
Odier  parts  of  the  body  are  likewife  liable  to  its  attack; 
nor  arc  the  internal  parts  exempt  from  it.  It  often  af^ 
fe6ts  die  lungs,  liver,  or  ^leen  j  and  phyficians  have 
frequendy  feen  tht  glands  of  the  mefehtery  gready 
enlarged  by  it. 

Thofe  obftinate  ulcers  which  break  out  upon  the  feet 
and  hands  with  fwelling,  and  litde  or  no  rednels,  are  of 
the  fcrophulous  kind.  They  feldom  difcharge  good 
matter,  and  are  exceedingly  difficult  to  cure.  The 
'white  fwellings  of  the  joints  feiem  likewife  to  be  of  this 
Icind :  they  are  with  difficulty  brought  to  a  fuppuration, 
'and  when  opened  they  only  difcharge  a  thin  ichor. 
There  is  not  a  more  general  fyrriptom  of  the  fcrophula 
than  a  fwelling  of  the  upper  lip  and  nofe. 

As  this  difeafe  proceeds,  in  a  great  meafiirc,  from  re- 
laxation, the  diet  ought  to  be  generous  and  nourifturtg, 
but  at  the  fame  time  light  and  of  eafy  digeitibn  s  as 
well  fermented  bread,  made  of  found  grain,  the  flelh 
and  broth  of  young  animals,  with  now  and  then  aglafs 
of  generous  wine,  or  good  ale.  The  air  ought  to  Be 
open,  dry,  and  not  too  cold,  and  the  patient  ihould 
take  as  much  exercife  as  he  can  bear.  This  is  of  the 
utmoft  importance.  Children  who  have  ehou^  of 
cxercife  are  feldom  troubled  with  the  fcrophula. 

There  is  nothing  more  pernidous  than  the  cuftom'  of 
plying  children  in  the  fcrdphiila'with  ftroVig  purgative 
medicines.    People  imagine  it  proceeds  from  humours, 

which 


S  C  R  O  P  H  U  L  A.  347 

which  rauft  be  purged  off,  without  confidering,  that 
thefe  purgatives  increafe  the  debility,  and  aggravate  the 
difeafe.  It  has  indeed  been  found,  that  keeping  the 
body  gendy  open  for  fome  time,  elpecially  with  fea- 
water,  has  a  good  effeft;  but  this  (hould  only  be  given 
in  grofs  habits,  and  in  fuch  quantity  as  to  procure  one^ 
or  at  moft  two  ftools  every  day. 

Batfa^g  in  the  fait  water  has  likewife  a  very  good  ef- 
fed,  efpecially  in  the  warm  feaibn.  A  courie^  of  bathing 
in  fait  water,  and  drinking  \t  in  fuch  quantities  as  to 
keep  the  body  gendy  open,  have  cured  a  fcropKula^ 
after  many  other  medicines  had  been  tried  in  vain^ 
^yhen  (sit  water  cannot  be  obtained,  the  patient  may 
be  bathed  in  freih  water,  and  his  body  kept  open  by 
final!  quantities  of  fome  mild  purga;tive. 

Next  to  cold-bathing,  and  drinking  the  fait  water^ 
we  would  recommend  the  Peruvian  bark.  The  cold 
bath  may  be  ufed  in  fumnn(br,  and  the  bark  in  winter. 
To  an  adult,  half  a  dram,  of  the  bark  in  powder  may 
be  given,  in  a  glafs  of  red  wine,  four  or  five  times  a 
day.  Children,  and  fuch  as  cannot  take  it  in  fubftance, 
may  ufe  the  deco<flion  made  in  the  following  manner : 

Boil  an  ounce  of  Peruvian  bark,  and  a  dram  of  Win- 
ter's bark,  both  grofsly  powdered,  in  a  quart  of  water 
to  a  pinti  towards  the  end,  half  an  ounce  of  fliced  li- 
quorice-root, and  a  handful  of  raifins  may  be  added^ 
which  will  both  render  the  decodbion  lefe  difagreeable, 
and  make  it  take  up  more  of  the  bark.  The  liquor 
muft  be  ftrained,  and  two,  three,  or  four  table-ipoon- 
fuls,  according  to  the  age  of  the  patient,  given  three 
times  a  day« 

Y  Y  2  .  Extern 


348  S    C    U    R    V    Y. 

External  applications  arc  of  little  ufc.  Before  the 
tumour  breaks  nothing  ought  to  be  applied  to  it,  unlefs 
a  piece  of  flannel,  or  fomething  to  keep  it  warm.  After 
it  breaks,  the  fore  may  be  dreffed  with  fome  digeftivc 

ointment. 

The  yellow  bafilicon  anfwers  beft,  mbced  with  about 
a  fixth  or  eighth  part  of  its  weight  of  red  precipitate 
of  mercury.  The  fore  may  be  dreffed  with  this  twice 
a  day  ;  and  if  it  be  very  fungous,  and  does  not  digeft 
well,    a  larger  proportion  of  the  precipitate  may  be 

added. 

Medicines  which  mitigate  this  difcafe,  though  they 

do  not  cure  it,  are  not  to  be  defpifed.    If  the  patient 

can  be  kept  alive,  by  any  means,  till  he  arrives  at  the 

age  of  puberty,  he  has  a  great  chance  to  get  weU,  but 

if  he  does  not  recover  at  this  rime,  in  all  probability  he 

never  will. 

There  is  no  malady  which  parents  are  fo  apt  to  com- 
municate to  their  offsprings  as  the  fcrophula,  for  which 
reafon  people  ought  to  beware  of  marrying  into  families 
affefted  with  this  difeafe. 


SCURVY. 

The  fcurvy  is  occafioned  by  cold  moift  air  j  by  tlic 
long  ufe  of  faked  or  fmoke-dried  provifions,  or  any 
kind  of  food  that  is  hard  of  digeftion,  and  affords  little 
nourifhment.  It  may  alfo  proceed  from  the  fuppreffion 
of  cuftomary  evacuations. 

It  is  fometimes  owing  to  an  hereditary  taint,  in  which 
cafe,  a  very  fmall  caufc  will  excite  the  latent  diforder^ 

Grief, 


SCURVY.  549 

Grief*  fear,  and  other  deprelfing  paffions,  have  a  great 
tendency  both  to  excite  and  aggravate  the  difeafe.  Th© 
fame  obfervation  holds  with  regard  to  negledt  of  clean- 
linefs;  bad  cloathing;  the  want  of  proper  exercife; 
confined  air ;  unwholefome  food^  or  any  difeafe  which 
greatly  weakens  the  body>  or  vitiates  the  humours. 

This  difeafe  may  be  known  by  unufual  wearinefs^ 
heavinefsj  and  difficulty  of  breathing,  efpecially  after 
motion  j  rottennefs  of  the  gums,  which  are  apt  to  bleed 
on  the  flightef):  touch;  a  flinking  breath;  frequent 
bleeding  at  the  nofe ;  crackling  of  the  joints;  difficulty 
of  walking;  fbmetimes  a  fwelling,  and  fbmetimes  a 
falling  away  of  the  le^,  on  which  there  are  livid,  yel- 
low, or  violet-coloured  Ipots ;  the  face  is  generally  of 
a  pale  or  leaden  colour.  As  the  difeafe  advances,  other 
fymptoms  come  on ;  as  rottennefs  of  the  teeth,  ha^mor* 
rhages,  or  difcharges  of  blood  from  different  parts  of 
the  body,  fb\il  obflinate  ulcers,  pains  in  various  parts, 
e^cially  about  the  breaft,  dry  fcaly  eruption3  all  over 
the  body,  &c.  At  lafl,  a  wafting  hcftic  fever  comes 
one,  and  the  miferable  patient  is  often  carried  off"  by  a 
dyfentery,  a  diarrhoea,  a  dropfy^  the  palfy,  famting 
fits,  or  a  mortification  of  fbme  of  the  bowels. 

There  is  no  way  of  curing  this  difeafe  but  by  pur- 
fuing  a  plan  dire£Uy  oppofite  to  that  which  brings  it 
on.  It  proceeds  from  a  vitiated  date  of  the  humours, 
occafioned  by  errors  in  diet,  air,  or  exercife ;  and  this 
cannot  be  removed  but  by  a  proper  attention  to  thefe 
important  articles. 

Tf  the  patient  has  been  obliged  to  breathe  a  cold, 
damp,  or  confined  air,  he  fhould  be  removed,  as  fbon 
as  polfible,  to  a  dry,  open,  and  moderately  warm  one. 

If 


350    '^  SCURVY. 

If  th^re  is  reafon  to  belkve  that  the  difeafb  propeedd 
from  a  fedentar3r  life,  or  deprefling  paffioos^  as  griefj 
fear,  &c.  the  patient  mpft  take  daily  as  much  exercife 
in  the  open  air  as  he  can  bear^  and  his  mind  ifaould  be 
diverted  by  cheerful  company  and  good  humour.  But 
this^  alas  !  is  feldom  the  lot  of  perfons  sM£kcd  with 
the  fcurvy;  they  are  generally  furiy>  pceviihy  md 
morofe* 

When  die  fcurvy  has  been  brought  on  by  a  long  uic 
of  falted  provifions,  the  proper  medicine  is  a  diet  con- 
fiding chiefly  of  frelh  vegetables ;  as  oranges,  apples, 

.  lemons,  limes,  tamarinds,  water-crefles,  fcurvy-grais, 
brook-lime,  &c.  The  v£c  of  thefe,  with  milk>  pot- 
herbs, new  bread,  and  frefti  beer  or  cyder,  will  ieldom 
&il  to  remove  a  fcurvy  of  this  kind,  if  taken  before  it 
be  too  far  advanced  s  but  to  have  this  efieS:,  .they  muil 
be  perfifted  in  for  a  confiderable  time.  When  frefli 
ivegetables  cannot  be  obtained,  pickled  or  prefervcd 
ones  may  be  ufed,  and  where  thefe  are  wandng,  recourfe 
muft  be  had  to  the  chymical  acids.  All  the  patlent'a 
food  and  drink  ihould,  in  this  c?ife,  be  fharpened  with 

,  cream  of  tartar,  elixir  of  vitriol,  vinegar,  or  the  fpirit 
of  fea  fait. 

Very  extraordinary  effe<5ls  in  the  land  fcurvy  have 
been  produced  from  a  milk  diet.  When  thefe  cannot 
be  had,  found  cyder,  perry,  or  fpruce  beer,  may  he 
ufed.  Wort  has  likewife  been  found  to  be  a  proper 
drink  in  die  fcurvy.  A  deco£tion  of  the  tops  of  the 
Ipruce  fir  is  likewife  proper.  It  may  be  drank  in  the 
quantity  of  a  pint  twice  a  day.  Tar-water  may  be 
•ufed  for  the  fame  purpofe,  or  deco£tions  of  any  of  the 
mild  mucilaginous  vegetables  j  as  farlkparilla,  marili- 


S    G    U    R    V    Y.  55i 

mallow  rootS)  &c.  Infufibns  of  the  bkter  plants^  as 
grotind-ivy>  the  ieflcr  centaury,  marih  trefoil,  &Ct  arc 
likewife  very  benfeficial. 

A  flight  degree  of  fcuiry  may  be  carried  off  by  fre* 
quently  fucking  a  litde  of  the  juice  of  a  bitter  orangey 
or  a  lemon.  When  the  difeafe  sffe&s  the  gums  only, 
this  pra6l:ice»  if  condmJed  for  ibme  time,  will  generally 
carry  it  off.  We  would,  however,  recommend  the 
bitter  orange  as  gready  preferable  to  lemon,  it  proves 
as  good  a  medicine,  and  is  not  near  fb  hurtful  to  die 
ftomach.  Perhaps  our  own  Ibrrel  would  be  litde  infe* 
xior  to  either  of  fliem. 

All  kind  of  fallads  are  good  in  the  fcurvy,  and  ought 
to  be  eat  very  plentifuly,  as  fpinach,  lettuce,  parfley, 
celery,  endive,  radilh,  dandelion,  £cc.  It  is  amazing 
to  fee  how  foon  frielh  vegetables  in  the  fpring  cure  the 
brute  animals  of  any  fcabor  foulneis  which  is  upon  their 
ikins.  It  is  reafonable  to  fuppbfe  that  their  effedts 
would  be  lis  great  upon  the  human  ipccies,  were  they 
ufed  in  proper  quantity  for  a  fufficient  length  of  time* 

We  have  known  good  effedls  in  fcorbutic  complaints 
of  very  long  Handing,  from  the  ufe  of  a  decoftion  of 
the  roots  of  water-dock.  It  is  ufually  made  by  boiling 
a  pound  of  the  frelh  root  in  fix  pints  of  water,  till  about 
one-third  of  it  be  confumed.  The  dofe  is  from  half  a 
pint  to  a  whole  pint  of  the  deco£lion  every  day.  The 
fafeft  Way,  however,  is,  for  die  patient  to  begin  with 
fmall  dofes,  and  increafe  them  both  in  ftrength  and 
quantity,  as  he  finds  his  ftomach  will  bear  it.  Ic  muft 
be  ufed  for  a  confiderable  time. 

Tjie  Leprojyy  which  was  fo  common  in  this  country 
long  ago,  fcems  to  have  been  near  a-kin  to  the  fcurvy. 

Perhaps 


9 


3S^ 


SEPTEMBER. 


Perhaps  its  appearing  fb  fddom  now,  may  be  owing  to 
the  inhabitants  of  Britain  eating  more  vegetable  food 
than  formerly,  living  more  upon  tea  and  other  diluting 
diet,  ufing  lefs  faited  meat,  being  more  cleanly,  better 
lodged  and  cloathed,  &c. 

For  the  cure  of  this  difeafe  we  would  recommend 
the  fame  courfe  of  diet  and  medicine  as  in  the  fcurvy. 


SEPTEMBER. 


ARTICLES    FOR    THE    SEASON. 


Meat* 

Fi/b. 

Beef 

Buck  venifon 

Carp. 
Cocl 

Lamb 

Flounders 

MuttOQ 

Haddocks 

Veal 

Lobfters 

Oyfters 

Poultry. 

Pike 

Chickens 

Plaice 

I>ucks 

Salmon 

Fowls 

Scate     . 

Gccfe 

Smelts 

Hares 

Sdes 

Larks 

Tench 

Partridges 

Thomback 

Fheafanu 

Pigeons 

F'egetahUs. 

Pullets 

Artichokes 

Rabbits 

All    forts  of 

Teal 

herbs 

Turkies 

BeaoA 

Cabbases 
Cardo^ 
Carrots 
Cauliflowers 
Celery 
Cucumbers 
Endive 
Efchalots 
Finochia 
Garlic 
Leeks 

Lettuce  and  all 
forts  of  fallad 
Mulhrooms 
Onions 
Parfley 
Parfnips 
Peafe 
Potatoes 
Radiilies 


Salfafy 
Scorzooera 
Sprouts 
Turnips 

Fruiu 
Apples 
Cherries 
Currants 
Figs 
Filberts 
Grapes 
Hazlenuts 
Medlars 
Melons 
Peac(iits 
Pears 
Plums 
Quinces 
Walnuts 


DIN- 


SEPTEMBER. 


351 


DINNERS    OF    TWO    COURSES. 

Ftrjl  C«urft. 

» 

Soup  Crefli  removed 

,  with  crimp  cod* 

The  fifh  removed  with  roaft  goofe. 


Fried  tripe. 

Melted  butter. 
Papiets  de  Veau* 

iKun  boiled. 


Sheeps'  tongues, 
Spaniih  way* 
Currant  jelly. 

Turkey  and 
qrficriauce.  - 


Salm!gundy< 


Artichokes,  Ita- 
lian way.  ^ 
Peaches. 
Potted  char« 

Plums. 


Fiih  fauce. 
Rabbit  pie. 

Cauliflower. 
C^'s-head  roafted. 

Kidney  beans. 
Petty  patties  of 

iauce. 
Soup  le  Rein  removed 
with  ftewed  tench. 

Fiih  removed 
with  haunch  of  venifon. 

Second  Courfem 
Phealants  loafled* 

Pine  apple. 

Raip  cream. 

Cray  fifii. 
Defisrt  franoe. 
Crabs  drefled  in  their 
fliell. 


Cluckens  boiled. 

Pariley  fauce* 
Ox  palates; 

Shoulder  of 
mutton  in  epigram; 

Ragoo  of  pigeons* 

Apple  iauce. 

Pork  fteaks. 


Eggs  Duchefs  fidhion. 


tigi 
CI 


heefecakes. 


A  trifle. 
Melon.  . 
Partridges  roafled. 


Tartlets. 

Ragido  mille. 

Pears. 
Collared  eeL 

Grapes. 

Mulhrooms  fncaflee*' 
Green  codling  tart. 


DINNERS    OF    THREE    COURSES. 


Chickens. 
Pigeon  Pie. 
Hurico  of  mutton. 


FirJlCourfe. 

Diihoffiih. 

Chine  of  Lamb. 

Gravy  Soup. 

Roait  Beet. 

Diih  of  fifh. 

Z  z 


Veal  collops. 
Alnaondtart. 

Ham* 

Stfni 


354 


S    X    I    R    R    E    T    S< 


Peas. 

Sweetbreads* 

Craw  fiih. 


Sec&mt  Ceurfe^ 

WUd  Fowk. 
DamaiceQe  Tarts. 

Crocanc. 

Maids  of  HoDour. 

Partridges. 


Ragooedlobflert. 

Fried  piths. 
Fried  aiticfaokes« 


Compot  of  bifcuitSi 
Green  tmAes. 
BlaocmaDge* 


Ragooed  palates.    ^ 
Tarttecf. 
Epergne* 
Cheeiirakes. 
Calves  ears  ii-Uhbraiie« 


Fnitt  in  jelly; 
Cardoom. 
Rataffa  droptt 


SKIRRETS. 

TCo  fricajfee  Skir  rets.  Having  walhed  the  roots  very 
weU>  and  boiled  them  till  they  are  tender,  take  the  (kin 
off  the  roots,  and  cut  theminto  dices :  have  ready  a  little 
cream,  a  piece  of  butter  rolled  in  flour,  the  yolk  of  an 
egg  beat,  a  litde  nutmeg  grated>  two  or  three  fpoonfids 
of  white  wine,  a  very  little  fait,  and  (Br  all  together. 
Your  roots  being  in  the  difl^  pour  the  fauce  over  them. 
It  is  a  pretty  fide  diih. 

Another  way.  Boil  the  roots  till  they  arc  tender^^ 
blanch  them,  cut  them  in  pieces ;  put  ibme  cream,  a 
little  butter  rolled  in  flour,  a  litde  kyan,  fait,  and  nut- 
meg, into  a  ftewpan  $  boil  it  up,  put  in  the  fkirrttSj 
and  let  it  juft  heat  through. 

SMALL. 


t    3«    1 

SMALLPOX. 

.  The  fiti^H  pox  is  diftiriguifbed  by  two  difFerent 
names;  die  dtftinSl,  and  tht  confluent :  each  denomina^ 
tion  defcriptive  of  die  kind  it  denotes. 

The  approach  of  both  forts  is  preceded  by  fimilar 
fymptoms :  die  firft  of  which  is^  generally  unuiual  wea* 
rinefs  and  dIfincUnatioh  to  motion;  then  follow  ihiver* 
ings  fucceeded  by  violent  heats^  thirfl:^  pains  in  the 
head^  back^  and  all  the  limbs ;  and^  more  particularly 
in  grown  perlbns^  a  difpofitioa  to  iweat^  psuns  at  the 
pit  of  the  ftomach^  iicknefs,  inclination  to  vomits  of- 
fenfive  breath>  a  di&greeable  tafte  in  the  mouthy  hea* 
vinlels,  and  inclination  to  fleep,  which  \&  generally  a,c- 
companied  with  reftleflhefs  and  une^Qnefs^  and  difturbed 
with  ftartings  and  dreams  of  horror ;  and  immediately 
before  the  a;ppearance  of  the  en^ption,  children  and 
perfons  of  very  delicate  cdhftitutions  are  frequendy  fub* 
jeft  taconvulfions* 

This  difeafe  has  been  divided  into  ibiir,  but  mor^ 
commonly  into  three  period; >  each  attended  widi  a  fever 
of  a  different  kind :  the  firil  is  thenervous>  and  accompa* 
nies  the  efforts  of  nature  to  feparate  the  infeded  matter 
froni  ^e  bloodj  and  ^hrow  it  out  on  the  iurface  of  the 
Ikini  (he  fecond  is  of  the  ardent  or  burning  kinc^ 
which  a^ppears  during  the  maturation  or  ripemng  of  the 
eruption9  and  whiph  is  commonly  called  the  fecondary 
fever ;  %nd  the  third,  which  is  occaGoned  by  a  retu^^n 
of  the  difeafed  matter  i.n;q  the  blood,  and  is  therefore 
Q\otre  or  lets  putrid 


356  SMALL       POX. 

The  appcarartec  and  progrcls  pf  the  fmall  pox» 
(which  is  undoubtedly  a  difeafe  of  its  own  kind,  and 
pcrfcdly  diftindt  from  all  others)  is,  for  the  moft  part, 
as  follows :  In  the  mild  and  favourable  fort,  the  puflules 
will  begin  to  appear  on  the  fourth  or  fifth  day  from  the 
firft  illnefi,  when  the  preceding  fymptoms  will  abate, 
and  the  difeafe  will  (hew  itfelf  in  fmall  fpots  of  a  pale 
red,  Iprinkled  here  and  there  over  the  fece,  neck,  and 
breaft,  which  are  the  parts  in  general  firfl  affefted  -,  and 
at  this  period  a  fweating,  which  the  ftridjteft  attention  to 
keeping  the  patient  cool  will  hardly  prevent,  com- 
mences till  the  puftulcs  begin  to  ripen,  when  it  difap- 
pears  naturally.  On  the  fecond  day,  thefe  fpots  begin 
to  be  vilihle  in  a  more  diflind  form  in  different  parts  of 
^e  body  s  and  from  this  time  they  rife  and  fill  with  a 
thick  digefled  matter  of  a  white  colour,  which  changes 
to  yellow  about  the  ninth,  tenth,  or  eleventh  day  j  after 
which  they  will  form  into  crulls,  or  fcabs,  and  gradually 
fall  off,  the  intermediate  fpaces  of  (kin  between  the  puf^ 
tules  appearing,  during  the  progrefs,  of  a  lively  red, 
which  continues  even  after  the  eruptions  have  difap- 
peared. 

As  the  puftulcs  increafe  in  quantity  and  fize,  the 
throat  is  frequendy  afFefted  with  forenefs,  and  the  eye. 
lids  are  fometimcs  fo  charged  with  eruptions  and  dif- 
tcnded  with  the  fwelling,  that  the  patient  becomes 
blind  i  and  this  fwelling  extends  not  only  over  the  whole 
head,  but  even  to  the  hands,  fingers,  and  feet,  and  is 
proportioned  to  the  quantity  of  eruption  ^  but  this  is  by 
no  means  an  unfavourable  fymptom,  and  it  abates  as 
foon  as  the  puftules  are  arrived  at  the  full  fize  and  ripe* 
nefs,  and  goes  ofii  as  it  firft  appeared,  by  degrees.       jt 

The 


SMALL        POX.  357 

The  regular  declenfion  or  going  oflF  of  this  difeafe  is 
marked  by  the  falling  of  die  face,  and  change  of  colour 
in  the  puftules  there,  in  the  firft  place,  whilft  thofc  in 
othir  parts  continue  fiiU  and  krge.  An  alteration  is 
next  difcovered  in  the  hands  and  fingers,  and  the  change 
£>Uows  over  the  odier  parts  of  the  body  i  on  the  fingers 
and  hands  there  is  feldom  or  ever  any  fcurf,  or  Italy 
matter,  but  the  burfting  of  the  pock  finifhes  the 
procefs. 

The  confluent  or  malignant  fmall  pox  has  alfo  th« 
lame  fymptoms  as  the  diftinA  and  favourable  fort ;  but 
the  eruption  appears  generally  a  day  or  two  earlier,  after- 
the  beginning  of  illneis ;  and  inftead  of  the  fweating,  it 
is  frequendy  accompanied  by  a  loofenefs:  thefooner 
the  puftules  break  through  the  fkin,  the  greater  appre- 
henlion  there  is  that  they  will  run  together.  This  fort 
feldom  comes  out  later  than  the  third  day,  except  in 
cafes  attended  by  very  extraordinary  fymptoms;  fuch 
as  acute  pdns  in  the  loins  or  (ide,  violent  rheumatic 
aches  in  the  linnbs,  and  uncommon  pains  in  the  fto* 
mach,  occafioning  ficknefs  and  vomiting;  and  whea 
.  the  eruption  is  delayed  by  fuch  complaints,  much  dan* 
ger  may  be  apprehended. 

Nor  do  the  fymptoms,  as  in  the  diftinfi;  fort,  vanilh 
on  the  appearance  of  the  eruption ;  on  .the  contrary,' 
they  continue  with  great  Tcverity,  and  frequendy  for 
many  days  after  this  event.  In  the  firft  ftage,  the  fpots 
'  are  hardly  to  be  diftinguifhed,  but  by  the  time  of  com* 
ing  out,  and  the  preceding  fymptoms,  from  the  meafles ; 
after  a  time,  they  join  or  run  together,  and  refemble  a 
red  bladder,  which  covers  the  whol^  face,  occafioning 
m  earlier  fwelling  than  the  diflinft  fort  s  and  as  th^dif*- 

temper 


J58  SMALL        POX. 

temper  advanceis,  the  wbc^  (uHace  of  the  face  appears 
as  if  a  thin  white  ikin  was  ftretched  tightly  oyer  it ; 
from  the  eighth  day,  or  thereabout;,  this  ikin  becomes^ 
more  rough  to  the  touchj  and  changes  to  a  d^k  brown^ 
inftcad  of  a  yellow  colour^  as  in  the  milder  Ibrt :  and 
this  roughaefs  and  alteration  of  colour  increales^  until 
the  fuperficial  ikin  cracks  and  falls  oflF^  which  does  ik>C 
fbmetimes  happen,  where  the  difeafe  has  been  of  die 
woril  kind,  till  towards  the  twentiedi  day;  when  the 
&in  beneath  appears  at  iirfl;  fmooth,  but  is  6xm  c&vered 
with  fcales>  of  {o  corrofive  a  quality,  as  not  only  to  oc- 
cafion  pits,  fears,  and  even  feams,  but  in  ibme  very 
bad  cafes  to  flxip  off  the  ikin  of  the  back  and  ihoulden* 
leaving  the  fleih  bare,  and  producing  a&uai  fores. 

Upon  the  whole,  when  the  puilules  appear  diitindlyj, 
flowly,  and  gradually ;  when  they  increaie  in  height 
and  iize,  and  as  well  as  the  intermediate  ikin,  preierve 
.  a  proper  colour ;  when  the  fwelling  commence  and 
goes  o£F  gradually ;  and  when  the  feveral  fevers  ape  mo- 
derate, and  the  change  or  ripening  is  cffcSttd  without 
Ae  intervention  of  any  extraordinary  iymptom  i  this 
diieafe  is  of  the  moil  mild  and  favourable  kind,  ^jod  is 
feldom  attended  with  any  confiderable  degree  of  danger. 

But  when  the  whole  furface  o[  die  face  is  covered 
with  puftuks ;  or  when  they  are  intermixed  with  dark» 
black,  or  purple  fpots  or  blotches ;  when  a  continual 
retention  of  urine,  violent  unintermitting  pains  in  the 
head  and  eyes,  and  throbbings  in  the  neck,  indicate  ai^ 
iflcreaibg  fever ;  when  the  fwellings  of  the  head  and  face 
fiiU  before  the  eruption  has  arrived  to  ripeneis ;  when  a 
black  ilough  or  cruil  covers  the  tongue ;  when  the  pa- 
tient^ at  the  maturity  of  the  puftules,  is  feized  wid\ 

ihivcr^ 


SMALL       POX.  35^ 

fliiverings,  faintnefsj  or  violent  palpitations;  when 
there  is  a  difcharge  of  bloody  either  in  the  urine,  or 
from  die  lungs,  by  exploration  or  (pitting :  in  either 
of  diefe  caies  the  patient  is  in  imminent  danger^  and 
die  moft  fatal  confequences  may  be  dreaded. 

The  introduftion  and  very  general  ufe  of  inoculatwm 
has  been  produftive  of  the  moft  happy  and  advantage-* 
ous  changes,  both  in  the  management  and  medical 
treatment  of  the  natural  fmall  pox. 

That  thoufands  of  lives  are  annually  faved  in  thefe 
kingdoms  by  inoculation,  is  beyond  the  pofllbility  of 
queftion ;  that  many  thoufands  more  might  be  in  like 
manner  preferved  by  rendering  it  univerlally  extenfivc, 
is  a  propofition  too  evident  to  be  contended :  and  wc 
fubmit  to  thofc  patriotic  members  of  the  legiflature^ 
who  have  exerted  great  powers  of  ability  in  providing 
for  the  health  and  comfort  of  their  fellow-citizens,  in  a 
variety  of  inftances,  whether  the  eftablilhment  of  fomc 
general  and  national  plan,  for  the  purpofe  of  enabling 
all  ranks  and  conditions  of  people  to  avail  themfelvesof 
this  life-prelerving  difcovery,  might  not  be  attended 
with  the  moft  advantageous  confequences,  and  executed 
at  a  very  moderate,  if  not  a  trifling  expence. 

Under  the  improved  methods  of  inoculation,  little  ob- 
jefkion  is  made  to  the  age  or  conftitiition  of  the  patient^ 
or  to  the  feafon  of  the  year  in  which  the  operation  is 
performed. 

As  to  the  former,  it  feems  to  be  the  general  opinion, 
that  although  many  children  under  two  years  old  have 
been  inoculated  with  fucceis,  yet  the  fafer  way  is  to  let 
them  pais  their  teething  i  previous  to^    and  during 

which. 


36o  SMALL        POX* 

which,  they  are  peculiarly  fubjcft  to  a  variety  of  difer« 
ders;  fuch  as  fevers,  convulfions,  and  fluxes;  which 
requiring  nunagement  in  fome  nneafure  difiering  from 
the  treatment  of  the  fmall  pox,  may  occafiori  inconve-* 
niences :  nor  is  i&  altogether  reaibnable  to  muidply  dii^ 
orders  in  frames  fb  tender,  as  to  run  great  hazard  in  get-* 
dng  through  thofe  which  commonly  attack  them  in  the 
ftate  of  in&ncy ;  more  efpecially  as  young  fubjefb  have 
ttlually  a  larger  burden  of  puftules  than  thofe  of  a  more 
advanced  age,  though  they  are  lefs  able  to  bear  them. 

To  this  may  be  added,  the  extreme  difficulty  of  prc- 
v^ing  on  children  to  fwallow  mecUcine  of  any  kind,  in 
the  greateft  emergency  -,  and  as  an  eruption  heavier  than 
uiual^  or  other  circumftances  may  occur,  in  which  there 
may  be  an  abiblute  neceflity  for  adminiftering  phyfic, 
we  may  in  ilich  cafes  have  the  melancholy  prolpeft  pf 
infants  dying  before  us  for  want  of  that  help,  which, 
though  at  hand,  we  are  utterly  unable  to  afford  them 
from  this  untoward  circumflance :  and  the- forcing  me- 
dicine down  their  Utde  throats  is  attended  with  fo  much 
uncertainty,  that  no  dependance  can  be  placed  on  the 
quantity  actually  taken  down,  and  is  productive  of  fuch 
dread  and  agitadon  in  the  patient,  as  frequently  to 
occaflon  convulfions,  and  other  deplorable  confequences. 

For  thefc  reafons,  it  fcems  more  prudent  to  defer  the 
operation  till  after  the  cutting  the  firft  teeth  is  com- 
pleted, as  the  delay  is  fo  fhort,  and  the  rifque  of  infants 
being  expofed  to  natural  infeSion  not  very  imminent ; 
but  if,  from  fituation,  the  neceflity  of  removing  them, 
or  other  circumftances,  there  is  great  probability  of 
their  being  infedted,  recourfe  fhould  be  had  to  inocu- 

•  lattooj 


S   MALL       POX.  36J 

hcion,  us  at  every  period  of  life  attended  with  much  left 
danger. 

In  (he  inoculation  of  children^  attention  is  recom- 
mended  to  an  obfcrvation,  that  thofe  who,  from  the  un- 
common fize  of  their  heads,  may  be  fufpe^ed  of  being  a& 
flifted  with  any  degree  of  the  hydrocephalus,  or  dropfy 
in  the  brain,  have  from  experience  been  found  impro- 
per fubje£b  of  inoculation;  children  labouring  under 
diis  complaint,  being  always  liable  to  a  flupor  or  hea- 
vinels,  which  this  operation  hath,  in  fome  inftances, 
been  known  to  promote^  though  the  diieafe  of  the  fmall 
pox  hath  proceeded  with  very  favourable  fymptoms. 

The  fuccefsful  pra6lice  of  admitting  &eih  air  to  pa- 
tients in  the  fmall  pox,  as  an  indifpeniable  regulation^ 
render^  the  feafon  o£  the  year  when  the  difeafe  is  to  be 
taken  of  very  little  confequencej  it  being  at  all  times 
neceflary  to  guard  againft  tqo  much  warmth^  even  in 
the  winter,  and  the  heats  of  funruner  beii%  never  fi>  in- 
tenfe  in  this  country  as  ix)t  to  be  eafily  avoided,  by 
chuiing  an  apartment  with  a  northern  a^eA,  which 
ihould  always  be  attended  to  when  this  operation  is  per- 
formed in  the  midft  of  fummer. 

Not  but  that  fome  regard  Ihouki  be  paid  to  circum* 
ftances  of  particular  kinds :  at  whatever  feafon  of  the 
year  any  epidemic  diftemper,  foch  as  the  lever  or  Qxc 
throat,  prevails,  it  will  be  proper  to  Xufpend  our  inten- 
tions to  inoculate,  whiUt  the  polfible  occurrence  of  fuch 
a  diftemper  may  render  the  bufineis  we  have  in  hand  his 
manageable. 

Preparation  for  inoculation  hath,  till  very  lately,  beei» 
held  to  be^ndifpenfable;  and  thoii^h  modem  experience 

Vol.  II.  A  a  a  hath 


36a  SMALL        POX. 

hath  tended  to  lefien  the  cautions  uAul  on  ihat  head, 
yet  we  do  not  conceive  they  are  to  be  altogether  rejefted 
in  regulating  a  regimen :  perhaps  little  attention  is  ne- 
cefllary  to  fuch  as  are  moderate  in  flefh^  and  enjoy  per* 
fedk  health  i  but  where  a  very  full  habit  indicates  gtois 
humours^  or  where  the  conftitution,  reduced  too  low, 
requires  corroboration  or  flrengthening,  or  where  the 
ftomach  or  bowels  appear  to  abound  with  crude  matter, 
Ibme  regulation  may  unqueftionably  be  attended  with 
advantage. 

In  the  former  cafe,  a  total  or  pretty  general  abffi- 
nence  from  animal  food,  or  the  juices,  in  broth ;  from 
cheefe,  and  any  confiderable  quantity  of  butter ;  from 
fermented  liquors,  except  a  moderate  ufe  of  well-con- 
coded  fmall-beerj  and  from  every  kind  of  fpice,  or 
whatever  elfe  is  of  a  heating  nature,  is  certainly  advife- 
able.  The  diet  to  confift  of  fruit-pies,  pudding,  rice- 
milk^  and  other  milk  meats ;  fago,  and  roots,  greens, 
and  vegetables  of  all  kinds,  not  excepting  fallads ;  toge- 
ther with  eggs  and  butter  in  the  puddings  and  pie-cruft, 
but  not  otherwife  5  tea,  coffee,  or  milk-chocolate,  for 
breakfail :  and  ail  to  be  taken  in  fuch  moderate  quan- 
tities, as  not  to  offend  or  load  the  ftomach. 

The  ufual  time  of  preparation  is  nine  or  ten  days  be- 
fore the  operation  s  and  under  the  circumftances  which 
render  this  preparation  neceffary,  it  will  be  prppcr  for 
the  patient  to  take,  at  equal  diftances,  three  doies  of 
the  following  powder,  which  may  be  either  fwallowed 
in  the  form  of  pills,  or  made  into  a  bolus  with  jelly  or 
fw^et-mcats : 

Calpmel,  fixteen  grains  j  powder  of  crabs-claws,  ten 
grains  i  golden  fulphur  of  antimony,   two-thirds  of  a 

grain  i 


SMALL        POX.  263 

grain ;  emetic  tartar,  one  quarter  of  a  grain,— Thefe 
muft  be  carefully  rubbed  and  mixed  in  a  mortar  s  and 
the  dofe  is  from  three  to  four  grains  for  children,  and 
from  five  to  fix  grains  for  grown  per(bn$,  to  be  taken 
the  lad  thing  at  night,  and  to  be  purged  off  the  follow* 
ing  morning  with  Glauber's  fairs  diflblved  in  warm  water 
or  gruel,  and  the  quantity  proportioned  to  the  age  and 
ftrcngth  of  the  patient :  on  the  days  of  purging  it  will 
be  proper  to  refrain  £rom  eating  v^etables. 

But  all  that  has  been  faid  of  regimen  and  medicine 
fhould  be  applied  only  to  habits  of  particular  flillnefs  or 
groflhefs  -,  where  there  is  no  fuch  appearance,  and  where 
there  is  no  fufpicion  of  bad  humours  or  vitiated  juices, 
no  fuch  preparation  is  at  all  neceilary,  nor  any  reftric* 
dons  as  to  diet,  till  after  the  infeftion  is  afhially  applied. 
In  the  evening  of  the  day  in  which  the  inoculation 
hath  been  performed,  a  dofe  of  the  above  powder  may 
be  given  in  quandty  as  before  ipecified ;  and  fi-om  this 
time  the  regulations  concerning  food  fhould  be  carefully 
attended  to,  nor  any  deviation  pemiitted,  unlefs  in 
cafes  and  under  circumftances  which  will  hereafter  be 
particularly  noticed. 

«The  communication  of  the  fmall  pox  by  inoculation 
hath  been  performed  in  a  variety  of  ways  j  on  the  flrfl 
introdu£tion  of  the  jn^adbice,  large  quantities  of  infeded 
matter  were  applied  on  pledgets  of  lint  or  cotton,  to  nu- 
merous incifions  of  certain  lengths,  depths,  and  even 
forms  i  but  this  method  being  produ£tive  of  diiagreea- 
ble  ulcers  and  fores  on  the  parts,  which  continued  to 

be  troublefbme,  and  were  fometimes  found  to  be  obfti* 

« 

nate,  leng  after  the  total  difappearance  of  the  difeafe,  a 
thread  moiftcned  with  the  matter,  by  drawing  it  through 

A  a  a  2  a  ripe 


364       smallpox!. 

a  ripe  puftulc,  was  fuWHcutcd,  and  being  laid  between 
the  lips  of  the  incifion,  was  fecurcd  with  a  plaiftcr ;  but 
this  method  producing  the  fame  inconveniences,  though 
in  a  Ids  degree,  the  following  is  now  recommended, 
as  liable  to  none  of  die  objcftions  of  the  former 
practices : 

tt  haring  been  long  determined  by  experiments 
idiich  kavc  no  room  for  doubt,  that  if  the  padent  re- 
'ceives  infeftion  naturally  and  artificially  at  the  fiimc 
time,  or  if  the  natural  infeftion  fhotild  even  have  pre- 
ceded inocnlatton,  buf  has  yet  occafioned  no  fymptoms 
of  approaching  illnefs,  diat  which  is  received  by  the 
wound,  mingling  with  the  blood  at  once,  operates  fir^ 
and  ddtroys  the  <iifpofition  of  the  body  to  be  afiefbed 
by  the  natural  taint  j  it  will  be  advifeable  to  peiform 
the  operation  in  the  fame  houfe,  or,  if  convenient,  in 
the  fame  room,  with  the  peifon  *fit>m  whom  the  matter 
is  intended  to  be  taken. 

The  point  of  a  lancet  or  needle  being  dipped  in  the 
frefh  infcfted  matter,  either  from  a  puftule,  if  in  the  na- 
tural way,  or  from  the  place  of  infertion,  if  the  perfon 
from  whom  it  is  taken  is  under  inoculation,  make  a  flight 
pun\Shire  or  incifion  on  the  middle  of  each  arm  aboVe 
the  elbow,  which  may  be  juft  deep  enough  to  pals  die 
external  flcin,  but  need  not  draw  blood  (whidi  is,  how- 
ever, no  way  material)  and  the  inftrument  being  intro- 
duced, let  it  be  gently  turned,  and  a  flight  preflurfi 
made  with  the  finger  towards  the  point  of  it,  by  which 
fricans  fome  of  the  matter  will  be  certainly  wiped  ofi^ 
and  left  within  the  punfturc  or  icratch. 

The  infection  thus  introduced,  no  applicatton  of  any 
kind  ihould  be  made  to  the  places  where  it  is  commu- 

nicatedi 


SMALL        P    O   X.  s^i 

hicated^  for  either  bandage  or  plaifter  are  fo  far  frool 
being  neccflary,  that  they  ferve  to  prevent  the  certain 
difcovery  of  the  in&ftion  having  taken  place,  which 
will  ihew  itfelf  by  a  degree  of  inflammation  about  the 
part ;  nor  are  thefe  (light  per^ations  of  the  outer  ikiia 
attended  with  the  dangers  of  ukers^  Cores,  and  mortifi- 
cations, which  were  frequently  occafioned  by  incifiom 
and  drefluigs. 

It  does  not  appear  to  be  in  die  fmal^eft  degree  mate- 
rial, whether  the  infedfcion  be  taken  from  a  ,fubje£b  of 
inoculation,  or  from  one  diieafed  in  the  natural  way, 
either  may  be  indifferently  tiled,  and  either  will  produoe 
the  fame  cffefts. 

But  as  doubts  have  arilen  widi  rcfpcA  to  the  pai^u« 
lar  ftage  of  the  difeafe,  at  which  the  matter  ibr  infelSiir^ 
ihouid  be  obtained,  it  may  be  neoeflary  to  remark^  ^iM 
the  lime  generally  pointed  out  for  this  purpofe  is  during 
the  continuance  of  the  fever  which  accompanies  -^ 
eruption. 

The  infe^on  thus  communicated,  on  the  evening  of 
the  fame  day  give  a  dofe  of  the  powder  before  de- 
fcribed ;  and  from  this  time  let  the  regimen  be  particu- 
larly attended  to.  To  grovm  perfons  it  will  'be  proper 
to  give  a  fmall  dofe  of  Glauber's  lalts,  or  manna^  and 
the  infufion  of  fenna,  on  the  mornings  following  after 
the  powders  are  taken ;  but  uhle&  the  powders  Ihould 
fail  to  produce  a  ftool  or  two,  this  wiU  not  be  ncceflary 
for  children. 

The  prpgrefi  of  the  infeftion  will  appear  in  a  fmall 
degree  gf  inflammation  about  the  punftured  part,  fo 
flight  at  firil  as  ortly  to  be  difcoverable  by  the  help  of  a 
magnifying  gkfs,  and  this  frcqoenriy  ib  -early  as  the 

fecond 


366  SMALL        POX* 

&cond  day :  on  the  fourth  or  fifth  day  the  part  will  btf 
fbmewhat  hard  to  the  touch>  the  inflammaiioii  will  be 
more  vifible^  attended  with  itching^  and  the  immediate 
fcratch  or  punfture  will  appear  to  be  covered  with  a 
kind  of  thin  /kin,  beneath  which  a  fmall  quantity  of 
fluid  will  be  difcernible ;  the  whole  aiTuming  the  ap- 
pearance of  a  bura» 

About  the  fixth  day  a  pain  and  ftiffhefs  is  generally 
felt  in  the  arm-pit ;  and  this  is  confidered  as  an  agree- 
able fymptom,  foretelling  the  near  approach  of  the 
cruption>  and  denoting  a  favourable  progrefs  of  the  dif- 
cafe :  and  at  this  time  another  dofe  of  the  powder  may 
)be  adminiftered,  under  the  foregoing  directions, 

Sometiriies  on  the  feventh  day,  but  more  frequently 
on  the  eighth,  the  iymptoms  of  the  eruptive  fever  will 
begin  to  appear,  fuch  as  flight  remitting,  pains  of  the 
head  and  back;  increafed  flilFnefs  in  the  arm-pits; 
(hiverings  of  fliort  duration  3  and  alternate  heats,  which 
continue,  more  or  lefe,  till  the  whole  eruption  is  com- 
plete. .  A  very  difagreeable  tafte  in  the  mouth,  and  an 
ofienfive  breath,  are  alio  ufual  fymptoms  about  this 
time ;  and  the  body  begins  to  emit  a  fmell  peculiar  to 
this  dilbrder,  at  the  particular  period  of  eruption :  and 
to  thcfe  fymptoms  may  be  added  the  appearance  of  the 
infefted  parts,  where  the  inflammation  now  fpreads 
fall,  and  the  puniSbures  generally  appear,  upon  infpefting 
theni^  through  a  glals,  to  be  almoft  furrounded  with 
fmall  puflules,  ib  clofe  together,  as  to  be  in  a  manner 
confluent  s  and  thefe  puflules  increafe  in  fize,  and  ex«n 
tend  as  the  difeafe  advances. 

On  the  tenth  or  eleventh  day,  a  partial  eruption,  of  a 
^vel^  cotour,  furrounds  the  place  of  inferupn^  and  fre- 
quently 


"^ 


SMALL       POX.  367 

quendy  extends  half  way  round  the  arm,  but  more  com* 
monly  is  about  the  iize  of  a  fhilling ;  and  being  under 
the  cuticle,  or  external  flcin,  is  neither  perceptible  by 
the  touch,  or  painful.  When  this  appearance  accom* 
panics  the  eruption  of  the  fmall  pox,  it  is  of  a  very 
pleafing  nature,  as  it  almoft  infallibly  predicts  a  mode^* 
rate  quantity  of  puftules,  the  fever  and  every  other  dis- 
agreeable fymptom  loon  fubfidcj  and  all  danger  and 
difficulty  are  at  an  end. 

At  this  ftage  of  the  difeafe  it  may  be  necefTary  to  re- 
peat the  powder,  in  which  cafe  it  Ihould  be  given  as 
ufual  at  night ;  and  on  the  following  morning  this  lax* 
^tive  draught : 

Infufion  of  fenna,,  two  ounces  j  manna,  half  an 
ounce ;  tindture  of  jalap,  two  drams. — ^But  neither  the 
former  medicine,  nor  this,  will  be  necefTary,  unlefs  the 
appearance  of  the  eruptive  fymptoms  is  accompanied 
with  any  particular  degree  of  violence  j  and  m  that  cafe 
thefe  prefcriptions  are  calculated  for  grown  perfons  of 
robufl:  habits  and  conftitutions.      • 

And  here  it  may  be  neceflary  to  repeat  the  remark^ 
that  although  preparation  by  regimen  and  purging  me- 
dicine may  be  necefTary,  in  the  habits  lafl  defcribed,  yet 
infants,  children,  and  young  people  in  perfeft  health, 
not  remarkably  grofs  or  full  of  blood,  will  need  few  or 
none  of  thefe  precautions ;  the  lingle  dofe  of  the  pow- 
der, adminiftered  the  day  on  which  the  infedlion  is  com- 
municated, will  generally  be  very  fufficient  for  fuch 
fubjeds,  and  in  fome  cafes  even  that  may  be  difpenfed 

with. 

> 

The  progrefs  of  the  eruption  is  unqueflionably  the 
mofl  intercfting  period  of  this  diftcmper  3  and  the  ma^ 

n^gement 


368  SMALL        POX. 

mgement  of  the  patient,  according  to  the  modem  tnc- 
thod,  at  this  particular  ftage  of  it,  differing  fo  very 
widely  from  former  prad:ice,  it  will  be  requifite  that  the 
dire&bns  on  this  head ihould  be  pkiri  and  intelligible: 
dut  no  fiec^ffary  fteps  may  be  omitted  for  want  of  die 
rdblution  which  follows  perfeft  ioforn^iadonj  nor  any 
Jiazardous  expefioKnts  tried  which  may  produce  the 
dangers  of  the  difeafe  in  attempting  to  avoid  them.    . 

When  the  fymptoms  of  the  eruptive  fever  begin  tQ 
make  theu-  appearance,  the  patient  is  by  no  means  to 
be  confined  to  his  bed,  or  even  to  his  room  s  on  the 
contrary,  as  foon  as  the  purging  nnedicine  has  operated 
(if  it  has  been  neceffary  to  adminifter  it  J  let  hin:!  keep 
abn5sd  in  the  open  air,  nor  (brink  &om  it,  however  dif- 
agreeable;  being  equally  cautious  not  to  (land  ftil^ 
and  to  avoid  the  contrary  extreme  of  violent  exercife ; 
and.  if  he  is  troubled  with  thirft,  kt  him  quench  it  in 
flights  of  o^d  water. 

By  the  regimtQ  above  prefcribed>  and  die  alterative 
purging  medicines  and  cool  air  at  the  period  of  erup- 
tion»  terrifying  fynfiptoms,  and  large  quandties  of  puf- 
toles^  are  in  mod  cafes  avoided:  and  cercain  it>is,  that 
€hofe  ^hb  ait  mtfft  iliclined  to  ksep  sd>road,  confinr* 
^yilifig,  m  ^  ofcheir  re^e<93,  to  the  regulations  laid 
iomHy  gea^sNly  paTs  dirough  the  difeafe  moiie  «(ily 
tfian  dlofe  who  cbsSti^  themfelves  w^hin  doors  s  and 
are  m  generdrl  fo  fonfibk  of  the  benefit  they  derive  from 
the  air,  a^  to  ^ft^it  ethers  in  the  fame  fituation,  rather 
to  fobmit  to  it  tit  ihrft/as  «  hardih^,  than  to  forfeit  the 
advantages  with  which  the  ufe  of  it  will  be  cerM^y 
aiteiided. 

As 


«i 


SMALL         POX.  366 

As  foon  as  the  maturation  or  ripening  is  completed, 
and  no  farther  apprehenfion  remains  of  danger  from  the 
clifea(e>  the  courfe  of  diet  may  be  altered  to  one  fome- 
what  more  generous :  boiled  meats,  fuch  as  chicken, 
mutton,  or  veal,  may  be  allowed  in  fmall  portions; 
but  particular  caution  fhould  be  ufed  in  the  return  to 
the  ordinary  quantities  of  animal  food ;  and  fome  re- 
ftraint  will  be  neceffaryfor  a  certain  time,  both  with 
refpeft  to  this  kind  of  diet  and  the  ufe  of  fermented  li- 
quors. 

If  the  parts  where  the  infe6tion  was  received  fhould 
liot  completely  heal  up  at  the  time  the  fcabs  of  the 
pock  fall  ofi^  but  fhould  continue  to  difcharge  matter 
after  that  event  j  this  appearance  is  occalioned  by  fbme 
peculiarity  in  the  habit,  which  fhould  be  removed  by 
gende  purgatives  and  alteratives,  the  wounds  being  in 
the  mean  time  covered  from  the  air,  and  the  inconveni- 
ency  which  may  arife  from  the  adherence  of  the  linen 
prevented  by  a  plaifter  of  white  cerate,  or  any  other  inof- 
fenfive  ointment. 

In  the  inoculated  fmall  pox  it  fbmetimes  happens^ 
that  a  confiderable  fever  remains  after  the  eruption,  the 
fkin  feems  fbetched  and  painful,  and  the  throat  be- 
comes fo  fore  as  to  occafion  difficulty  in  fwallowing ;  in 
fuch  cafes  a  blifter  plaifter  has  been  recommended  to  be 
applied  on  the  incifions,  which  are  generally  the  princi- 
pal feats  of  complaint,  being  furrounded  by  a  clufter  of 
puftules,  frequently  confluent,  and  occafioning  fbme 
fwelling  or  flraitnefs  of  the  fkin,  and  inflammation ;  a 
difcharge,  therefore,  of  the  acrid  matter  from  this  fourcc 
of  the  whole  difeafe  feems  the  obvious  method  of  pro- 
curing relief.  The  blifter  may^be  about  the  fize  of  a 
Vol.  II.  Bbb  crown 


370  S    M    A   I^   L        POX. 

crown  piece,  or  Icfs,  according  to  the  extent  of  the  in- 
flammation, and  may  be  compofed  of-*-Powdered  can* 
tharidcs,  or  Spanilh  flies  i  and  common  yellow  bafilicon. 
The  plaifter  fliould  be  laid  on  foft  linen  cloth,  and  the 
edges  of  it  prepared  to  adhere,  by  being  fpread  with  the 
common  fliicking  plaifter,  fo  that  the  blifter  may  be  pre- 
vented from  flipping,  or  being  rubbed  off  from  the  part, 
in  the  patient's  fleep;  but  the  immediate  incifion  or 
pun6hire  fliould  be  covered  with  a  doflil  of  lint  or  cot- 
ton before  the  blifter  plaifter  is  laid  on,  which  fliould 
remain  about  twelve  hours,  and  then  be  removed  and 
dreflied  with  yellow  bafilicon  fpread  on  a  pledget  of  lint, 
and  the  whole  covered  with  a  plaifler  of  the  following 
cerate ;  the  prdfcription  for  which  is  given,  as  not  only 
making  the  beft  plaifter  for  drefling  blifters,  but  in  other 
cafes  an  innocent  healing  falve  .or  ointment,  and  very 
j)roper  to  be  applied  as  the  exterior  drefling  of  many  other 
wounds  and  ulcers : 

Take  of  olive  oil,  half  a  pound ;  yellow  wax  and  pre- 
pared calamy,  of  each  a  quarter  of  a  pound.  Melt  the 
wax  with  the  oil,,  and  as  foon  as  the  mixture  begins  to 
congeal,  fprinkle  in  the  calamy,  and  ftir  well  till  die 
whole  is  quite  cold.  This  is  the  common  Turner's  ce- 
rate, and  called  in  the  London  Difpenfary,  cerate  epu- 
lotic. 

Though  this  method  of  applying  blifters  in  the  inocu- 
lated fmall  pox  hath  not  been  ufually  praftifed,  yet  it 
hath  been  fo  frequently  tried  of  late,  and  hath  fo  con» 
ftantly  been  attended  with  fpeedy  and  effeftual  relief, 
that  it  ought  to  be  recommended  to  general  ufe  on  fuch 
occafions,  blifters  on  the  other  parts  of  the  body  being 
much  more  troublcfome  and  Icfs  efiicaciousj  befiiies, 

that 


SMALL        POX.  371 

that  the  little  additional  pain  which  follows  bliftering 
the  part  already  fore  and  inflamed,  is  no  confidcrable 
objedt,  with  children  more  efpeciallyi  nor  does  the  blif- 
tering protraft  the  healing  of  the  incifions ;  on  the  con- 
trary, it  hath  been  remarked,  that  thofe  which  have 
been  bliftered  are  generally  whole  before  others  to  which 
no  application  hath  been  made. 

To  what  has  been  faid  of  variations,  fymptoms,  and 
cfFefts,  in  the  inoculated  fmall  pox,  may  be^  added,  that 
in  fome  cafes,  but  particularly  thofe  of  children,  though 
the  eruption  hath  been  moderate,  and  the  puftules  of  a 
good  kind,  yet  very  early  in  the  difeafe  the  inoculated 
parts  have  been  highly  inflamed,  and  have  occafioned 
reftleflhels,  and  even  a  degree  of  fever  j  whenever  this 
happens,  a  common  poultice  of  bread  and  milk  will  re- 
move the  complaint  with  certainty. 

The  confluent  fmall  pox,  the  melancholy  efiefts  of 
which  are  but  too  vifible  in  many  unfortunate  individu- 
als who  have  been  the  viftims  of  its  malignity,  claims 
^ur  attention ;  and  if  the  fubftitution  of  a  mode  of  treat- 
ment, different  in  all  refpe6ts  from  that  under  which 
thofe  melancholy  confequences  enfued,  will  produce 
fymptoms  lb  different  as  to  Icflen  our  fears  of  death  and 
deformity,  and  increafe  our  hopes  of  not  only  prelerving. 
our  lives,  but  the  comforts  of  them,  it  is  an  objeft  to  be 
purfued  with  zeal,  earneflnefs,  and  affiduity. 

It  is  of  great  importance  to  be  acquainted  with  the 
means  of  diftinguifhing  the  approach  of  this  difeafe 
from  that  of  certain  fevers,  to  the  preceding  fymptoms 
of  which  thofe  of  the  fmall  pox  bear  a  very  ftrong  refem- 
bbnce ;  but  knowledge  of  this  fort  mufl  be  acquired  by 
great  attention,  which  will  in  mofl  cafes,  where  oppor- 

Bbb2  tunity 


yji  SMALL        POX. 

tunicy  oflfcrs  of  making  the  obfervations  in  time,  enable 
us  to  prognofticate  with  tolerable  certainty  what  particu- 
lar difeafe  will  follow. 

If  the  fever  runs  remarkably  high  j  if  the  hot  and 

cold  fits,  but  in  particular  the  latter,  be  long  and  fevere; 
if  loathing  and  vomiting  fucceed,  and  are  accompanied 
with  pains  in  the  head,  back,  and  loins;  if  the  patient 
appears  opprefled.^  with  wearinefs,  and  difturbcd  with  a 
great  degree  of  reftlcflhels  i  if  his  breath  is  uncommonly 
offenfive,  and  he  complains  of  a  very  difagreeable  taftc 
in  his  moudi ;  and  if  thefe  fymptoms  fhould  have  the 
additional  Aipport  of  any  probable  danger  of  recent  in- 
fedion,  litde  doubt  can  be  entertained  of  their  indica- 
ting the  approach  of  the  fmall  pox :  but  ihould  that  not 
happen  to  be  the  cafe,  there  is  no  reafon  to  apprehend  that 
the  regimen  which  fuch  a  belief  points  out,  will  prove  in 
the  fmalleft  degree  injurious,  fhould  the  complaints  ter- 
minate in  any  other  kind  of  fever. 

Suppofing,  therefore,  that  we  arc  apprized,  by  al^  or 
feveral  of  thefe  fymptoms,  of  the  approach  of  the  fmall 
pox,  the  fame  medicines,  adminiftcred  at  the  fame 
times,  in  the  fame  proportions,  and  fubje6b  to  the  fame 
exceptions  i  the  fame  regimen  as  to  diet,  and  the  fame 
treatment  as  to  air,  which  hath  been  already  dire<fted 
for  inoculated  patients,  may  be  recommended  on  the 
bcft  authority,  that  of  experience,  as  the  fureft  means  to 
obviate  the  difficulties,  and  furmount  the  dangers,  to 
which  the  fufferer  under  this  difeafe  is  much  more  cer- 
tainly liable  under  the  old  and  very  contrary  praftice. 

In  all  cafes  where  the  preventive  methods  could  not 
be  tried,  and  when  the  eruption  is  already  out  or  begin- 
ning to  appear,  the  mercurial  powder  may  be  immedi- 
ately 


SMALL        POX.  373 

ately  adminiftered,  and  the  purging  draught  Ihould  follow 
it  on  the  fucceeding  morning,  as  direfted  in  the  fmaU 
pox  by  inoculation  ;  the  patient  Ihould  alfo  be  moved 
about  in  the  open  ah- ;  and  if  the  progrefe  of  the  erup- 
tion does  not  occafion  an  abatement  of  the  fymptoms, 
but  they  Ihould  continue  or  increafe  in  violence,  the  me- 
dicines fhould  alfo  continue  to  be  repeated  at  intervak 
during  the  courfe  of  the  eruptive  fever ;  and  from  this 
treatment  great  hopes  may  be  entertained  that  the  erup- 
tion may  be  checked,  and  the  conflux  and  confequenc 
dang^  in  a  great  meafure  prevented. 

But  we  are  not  to  expeft  that  the  efFefts  of  regimen 
or  management  will  be  fo  immediately  and  fenfibly  felt 
in  the  natural  difeafe,  where  the  fymptoms  are  generally 
violent,  as  in  inoculation,  where  they  are  for  the  moft 
part  inuch  more  moderate. 

Though  the  pain  in  the  head  derives  certain  relief 
from  the  cool  air,  yet  it  doth  not  fo  certainly,  at  leaft  not 
fo  immediately,  follow  in  the  complaints  of  the  back 
and  loins ;  fo  that  the  neceflary  motion  is  produftive  of 
much  trouble  and  fatigue :  notwithll^nding  which,  the 
patients  themfelves  are  in  general  fo  fenfible  of  the  be- 
nefit they  receive  from  this  toilfome  undertaking. 

If  the  patient  has  complained  of  confiderable  fick- 
nefs  at  his  ftomach,  the  medicines  will  in  all  proba- 
bility promote  it  to  vomiting;  and  this  difpofitioa 
fhould  be  encouraged  by  drinking  freely  of  fome  warm 
diluting  liquid,  avoiding  the  cool  air  during  this  opera- 
tion of  the  medicines,  and  for  fome  time  after,  till  the 
fatigue  and  perfpiration  occafioned  by  it  are  entirely 
gone  off. 

ThU 


J74  SMALL        POX. 

This  efFeft  of  the  medicines,  being  followed  by  ftools, 
will  in  a  great  degree  leffen  the  fever  heat,  thirft,  fick- 
nefs,  and  univerfal  pains  j  and  though  the  patient  will 
fometimes  appear  low  after  thefe  evacuations,  yet  the 
lymptoms  being  abated,  and  the  ftomach  capable  of  ta- 
king: nourifliment,  a  little  thin  broth  of  chicken  or  mut- 
ton,  tea,  gruel,  and  milk,  will  in  moft  cafes  procure  con- 
fidcrable  rcfreflimenti  and  a  difpofition  to  fleep  fuc- 
ceeds,  which  (hould  be  indulged,  but  upon  the  bed  only, 
in  the  day-time,  nor  fhould  the  patient  go  into  it  till  he 
lays  down  for  the  night. 

By  this  condyft'thc  fever  preceding  the  eruption,  and 
the  many  painful  and  difagreeble  fymptoms  which  at- 
tend it,  will  in  moft  cafes  be  alleviated,  and  the  appear- 
ance of  the  puftules  be  delayed ;  and  however  dangerous 
fuch  a  confequence  may  have  appeared  in  the  old  me- 
thod of  treatment,  yet  experience  has  convinced  us,  that 
tlie  later  the  eruptions  appear,  the  more  mild  in  general 
is  the  difeafe. 

If  any  degree  of  coftivenefs  Ihould  attend  the  rifing 
of  the  fmall  pox,  it  ihould  be  removed  by  gentle  emol- 
lient clyfters ;  at  any  rate  ftools  Ihould  be  procured,  nor 
Ihould  the  patient  be  fufFered  to  remain  much  more  than 
twenty-four  hours  without  this  evacuation :  a  ftool  or 
two  every  day  will  greatly  tend  to  cool  and  relieve. 
And  the  following  drink  hath  been  recommended  as  ex- 
tremely refrefhing,  and  very  ufeful  to  abate  the  heat, 
and  allay  the  thirft,  which  generally  attends  the  fmall 
pox,  and  in  particular  the  fevere  or  malignant  fort, 
about  the  time  of  maturation. 

Mix  one  part  of  the  weak  fpirit  of  vitriol  With  two 
parts  of  the  fwect  fpirit  of  vitriol,  to  tlie  quantity  toge- 
ther 


SMALL        POX. 


375 


tker  of  half  an  ounce ;  add  to  this  three  pints  of  barley 
water,  or  other  diluting  peftoral  drink,  and  take  it  at 
pleafurc. 

A  foul  mouth,  or  dry  and  chopped  tongue,  fhould  be 

frequently  waflied,  and  the  throat  gargled  with  jelly  of 

*  black  currants  diflTolved  in  warm  water ;  or  with  honey 

and  water,  and  a  fufficient  quantity  of  the  currant  jelly, 

or  of  vinegar,  to  Iharpen  it. 

A  fuppreffion  of  the  urine,  or  difficulty  of  making 
water,  is  a  complaint  very  common  in  this  difeafe ;  a 
tea  fpoonful  of  fweet  fpirit  of  nitre  may  in  fuch  a  cafe 
be  added  to  the  patient's  drink  j .  but  moving  him  either 
out  of  the  bed,  or  if  that  cannot  be  accompliflied,  fet- 
ting  him  upon  his  knees,  will  ufually  procure  relief,  and 
4  free  and  large  difeharge  of  urine  is  attended  with  very 
good  efFe£ts  in  the  fmall  pox. 

When  this  difeafe  is  in  fp  malignant  a  ftate  as  to  be 
accompanied  with  black,  purple,  or  livid  fpots,  it  will 
be  neceflary  to  have  immediate  recourfe  to  the  Peru- 
vian bark,  which  may  be  given  in  fubftance,  and  repeated 
as  often  as  the  patient's  ftomach  will  bear  it  -,  and  ic 
fhould  be  adminiftered  in  the  following  form : 

One  dram  of  the  bark  powdered  ;  one  ounce  and  a 
half  of  common  water  -,  half  an  ounce  of  finiple  cinna- 
mon water  i  and  one  ounce  of  lemon  or  orange  fyrup. 
-This  may  be  fharpened  by  the  addition  of  a  fmall  quan- 
tity of  the  fpirit  of  vitriol. 

To  a  child,  a.  table  fpoonful  fhould  be  given  every 
hour,  and  to  grown  perfons  three  or  four ;  and  as  the 
cfFeft  depends  on  a  fufficient  quantity  being  taken,  it 
fhould  not  be  omitted,  as  often  as  it  will  remain  on  the 
ftomach  without  exciting  vomitings  or  retchings. 

When 


376  SMALL        POX. 

When  thefe  deplorable  fymptoms  appear,  the  patient's 
food  and  drink  ihouid  be  particularly  regulated  :  die  for- 
mer (hould  be  preferved  fruits,  of  an  acid  quality,  and 
apples  boiled  or  roafted ;  and  the  latter  (hould  confift  of 
generous  wines,  moderately  diluted,  and  fpirit  of  vitriol, 
lemon  juice,  orange  juice,  currant  jelly  or  vinegar, 
Ihould  be  added  to  every  draught. 

Nor  is  the  bark  only  prefcribed  in  the  putrid  or  fpot- 
ted  fmall  pox ;  it  may  be  adminiftered  with  fuccefs  in 
thofe  kinds  where  the  puftules  do  not  maturate  in  die 
ufual  form,  but  where  they  fill  with  a  thin,  clear,  and 
acrid  matter,  of  a  paler  colour  than  that  of  the  mild  and 
favorable  fort  of  this  difeafe  i  and  is  often  of  great  effi- 
cacy in  promoting  a  due  preparation  of  the  matter,  and 
filling  the  pock  with  that  of  a  proper  colour  and  confif- 
tence  ;  and  inftances  have  frequently  occurred  where 
the  ufe  of  the  bark  and  acids  hath  affefted  this  change, 
when  the  eruption  hath  been  quite  flat,  the  matter  tranf- 
parent,  and  the  whole  appearance  very  unpromifing. 

Bleeding,  alfo,  has  in  fome  inftances  been  found  very 
ferviceable,  when  the  puftules  have  flattened  or  fubfided. 
Cataplafms  to  the  hands  and  feet  maV  ferve  to  promote 
the  fwelling,  and  very  ingenious  phyficians  have  in  fuch 
cafes  recommended  badiing  the  extremities  in  warm 
milk  and  water,  and  even  the  whole  body  to  the  breaft. 

Such  a  number  of  boils  on  the  body  are  attended 
with  fo  much  forenefs  and  uneafinefs,  that  the  moderate 
ufe  of  gentle  opiates  is  generally  neceflary  about  this 
time,  to  afluage  the  pain  occafioned  by  the  violent  in- 
flammation of  the  puftules  and  (kin :  for  though  the 
forenefs  and  anxiety  complained  of  are  generally  good 
fymptoms,  and  the  want  of  thofe  fcnfations  would  indi- 
cate 


J8  M  A  L  L       P  O  ».  377 

0ate  danger^  yet  ie  is  neceflary  to  contribute  as  much  as 
poflible  to  the  patient's  cafe,  which  in  this  cafe  can  only  be 
procured  by  opiates ;  of  which  the  fyrup  of  poppies  may 
anfwer  the  purpofe  with  children,  but  grown  perfbns 
will  require  a  fmail  quantity  of  laudanum. 

The  fecondary  fever  comes  on  with  die  firft  appear« 
ance  of  an  alteration  or  change  of  colour  in  the  puftules ; 
and  this  is  confidered  as  the  moft  dangerous  period  of 
the  diieafe,  which  generally  proves  more  mortal  in  this 
than  in  any  ^ther  ftage. 

At  this  turn  ofthediftemper,  nature  frequently  makes 
her  effort  to  relieve  the  patient  by  the  evacuation  of 
purging ;  and  this  diipolition  ought  to  be  encouraged, 
a  change  being  made  in  the  patient's  regimen  as  to  diet 
.and  drink,  which  fhoiikl  at  this  time  be  more  nouriflx-* 
ing  and  generous,  in  order  to  fupport  thole  critical  and 
ialutary  difchai^ges. 

Opening  the  puftules,  when  they  arrive  at  maturity, 
hath  been  alfb  adviied ;  nor  do  we  fee  any  reafbn  why 
:the  taking  off  a  load  of  acrid  matter,  and  leffening  the 
tenfion  ot  ftretching  of  the  fkin,  both  which  no  doubt 
contribute  to  keep  the  fecondary  fever  high,  fhould  be 
/attended  with  any  ill  confequence  j  it  has  certainly  been 
praftifed  with  fafety,  and  may  probably  prevent  the 
marks  which  the  matter  corroding  under  the  fcab  gene- 
rally occafions. 

But  this  operation  fhould  not  be  performed  till  the 

pufhiles  turn  of  a  yellow  colour,  and  may  either  be  cf- 

•  fe&ed  with  fciflars  or  the  point  of  a  needle^  and  the  • 

matter  taken  off  as  it  flows  ^ith  dry  lint  $  t^ut  as  the 

puftules  fill  again,  and  fometimes  even  a  third  time,  it 

^wiU  be  neceffary  to  open  them  repeatedly,  and  at  leaft 

Vol,.  11.  Ccc  » 


37«  SMALLPOX, 

as  long  as  they  ihew  any  confiderable  quantity  of  nnattcf^ 
The  eruption  in  the  face  generally  changing  firft,  the 
operation  will  begin  there>  and  may  be  extended  to  the 
other  parts  of  the  body* 

Nor  is  this  operation  attended  with  any  degree  of 
pain  or  inconvenience  j  with  children  it  may  be  perfor- 
med whilft  they  fleep^  without  the  fmalleft  danger  of 
awakening  them ;  nor  does  it  occafion  the  leaft  fmardng 
or  forenefs,  but  generally  alleviates  the  inflanunation 
which  accompanies  this  ftage  of  the  difeafc. 

At  this  period  of  the  difbemper  it  is  of  no  finall  ad* 
vantage  to  ihift  the  linen  of  the  fick,  which  muft  by 
this  time  be  grown  extremely  foul,  ftiffj  and  offenfive, 
and  exceedingly  troubleibme  and  uneafy  to  them  ^  be- 
fides  that  it  pollutes  the  air  of  the  chamber,  and  renders  it 
fo  unfit  for  refpiration,  as  not  only  to  affed  the  patient^ 
but  to  be  almofl  int<Jerable  to  thofe  in  health,  who  are 
engaged  in  attendance,  and  other  neceflary  offices  about 
the  difeafed :  nor  is  the  inconvenience  confined  to  the 
immediate  loathfome  eflfefls  of  this  ipecies  of  impurity  ^ 
the  contagious  particles  of  this  poifonous  exhalation  paf* 
ling  into  thb  blood  again  through  the  lungs,  tend  to  its 
farther  corruption.     Nor  ihould  frelh  air  be  excluded, 
under  proper  precautions,  and  with  due  regard  not  to 
make  too  fudden  a  change,  or  too  violent  an  impreffion  5 
_but  the  removal  of  the  offenfive  linen,  and  opening  win- 
dows and  doors  with  prudence,  will  frequently  produce 
very  extraordinary  effefts  in  the  recovery  of  thdc  who 
have  fufFercd  under  the  feverity  of  this  difeafe ;  nor  is  it 
at  all  neceflary,  or  even  proper,  that  the  linen  intended  to 
change  the  patient  ihould  be  previouOy  worn  by  another 
perfon,  whofc  pcrfpiration  will  certainly  render  it  unfit 

for 


SMALL       VOX.  379 

for  the  intended  purpofe  of  refrefhing  and  comforting 
the  fick ;  whatever  apprehenfions  may  have  been  fbr^ 
merly  entertained^  no  manner  of  danger  attends  the  put- 
ting on  clean  jinen,  provided, it  be  made  perfeftly  dry, 
«nd  rtafonably  warm. 

Though  it  has  been  generally  thought  right  to  purge 
.after  the  fmall  pox,  yet  it  will  be  found  to  be  more  or 
leis  neceflary,  according  as  the  patient  hath  been  cof- 
tive,  or  the  contrary,  during  the  courfe  of  the  difeafe; 
but  at  any  rate  it  will  not  be  proper  to  neglect  it 
wholly,  left  biles,  fwelled  glands,  and  ulcers  fliould 
follow,  which  is  not  unfrequently  the  cafe. 

Stewed  prunes,  in  which  have  been  infuled  the  leaves 
of  (enna,  is  a  proper  purge  for  young  children,  to  which 
may  be  occafionaUy  added  a  litde  rhubarb  in  powder. 
Youths  and  grown  peribns  may  take  from*  eight  to 
twelve  grains  of  rhubarb  at  night,  and  the  like  quandty 
of  jalap  the  following  morning  i  and  thefe  purging  dofes 
may  be  repeated  three,  four,  or  five  times,  as  clrcum^ 
ftances  require. 

When  the  difeafe  has  been  fevere,  ulcers  and  impoft« 
humes  will  fometimes  follow :  no  attempts  fbould  be 
made  to  repel  or  diiperfe  thefe  humours,  but  they 
ihould  be  ripened  by  common  pouhices  of  bread,  milk, 
and  oil,  as  fpeedily  as  poffible;  and  after  they  have 
burft,  or  been  opened,  as  neceffity  may  direft,  the 
patient  Ihould  be  purged,  and  for  fome  time  confined. 
to  a  milk  diet,  and  advifed  to  the  ufe  of  the  Peruvian 
bark,  which  may  be  adminiftered  in  fubftance  in  Port ' 
wine  and  water,  or  wine  alone,  according  to  the  age  and 
fituation  of  the  patient,  which  will  alfo  direft  the  pro- 
portion of  quantity,  from  one  dram  to  five  or  fix,  which 

C  c  c  a  ihould 


jSo  s  o  £  £  ^. 

ihould  be  repeated  daily  as  long  as  dieie  complaint! 
continue^- 


SMELTS, 
They  are  dreflixl  like  odier  finall  filh. 


SNlPES.r-:Sce  Woodcocks,  &c. 


mtm^m^k 


SNOW.-r-Scc  CiLEAM  and  Ornamental  Dishes^ 


SOLES, 

7b  hoil  Soles*  Take  two  or  dirce  pa^r  of  nuddllng 
foles ;  when  they  are  (kinned  and  gu(ted>  waih  them  ia 
Ipring  water^  then  put  them  on  a  difh^  and  pour  half  a 
pint  of  white  wine  over  them  j  turn  them  two  or  three 
times  in  it,  and  poqr  it  away  ^  then  cut  off  the  heads 
and  tails  of  the  foles,  andfet  on  a  ftewpan,  with  a  litde 
rich  fifh  broth  5  put  in  an  onion  cut  to  pieces,  a  bunch 
of  fweet  herbs^  P^PP^^ «  fait,  and  a  blade  of  mace  j 
when  this  boils  put  in  the  foles,  and  with  them  half  a 
lemon,  cut  in  dices  with  the  peel  on  j  let  them  (immer 
(lowly,  dien  take  out  the  fweet  herbs^  and  put  in  a  pint 
of  ftrong  white  wine,  and  a  piece  of  butter  rolled  in 
flour  i  let  them  all  fimmer  together  till  the  foles  are 
enough* 

While 


s  a  h  E"  sr;  5Jl 

* 

WKile  die  iiih  are  doing,  put  in  half  a  pint  of  vtaf 
gravy,  and  a  quarter  of  a  pint  of  cflcnce  of  ham ;  let  it 
boil  a  little^  take  up  the  Ibles,  and  pour  this  over  it. 

Another  way.  Clean  a  pair  of  foles,  lay  them  in  vi- 
negar, fait,  and  water,  two  hours ;  dry  them  in  a  cloth^ 
put  them  into  a  ftewpan,  put  to  them  a  pint  of  white 
wine,  a  bundle  of  fweet  herbs,  an  onion  ftuck  with  fix 
cloves,  fome  whole  pepper,  and  a  litde  fait;  cover 
them,  and  let  them  boil.  When  they  are  enough^ 
take  them  up,  lay  them  in  your  difli,  ftrain  the  liqii6r, 
and  thicken  it  up  with  butter  and  flour.  Pour  the  fauce 
over,  and  garnifh  with  fcraped  horfe-radifh  and  lemon.* 
In  this  manner  drefs  a  litde  turbot.  It  is  a  genteel  diih 
for  fupper.  You  may  add  prawns,  or  flirimps,  or  muf* 
fels,  to  your  fauce. 

To  fiew  Soles.  Having  taken  the  flelh  from  the' 
bones  of  your  foles,  cut  each  of  them  into  eight  pieces. 
Put  into  a  ftewpan  a  quart  of  boiled  gravy,  a  quarter  of 
a  pint  of  Madeira,  or  white  wine,  fome  white  pepper 
pounded,  grated  nutmeg,  a  piece  of  lemon-peel ;  ftew 
thefe  together  for  near  an  hour;  add  fome  cream,  a 
piece  of  butter  mixed  with  flour :  keep  the  lauce  ftirring 
till  it  boils,  put  in  the  fifl),  ftew  it  for  a  quarter  of  an 
hour ;  take  out  the  lemon-peel,  fqueeze  in  fome  lemon« 
juice.  The  fifti  may  be  ftewed  whole  in  the  fame  fauce, 
and,  if  more  convenient,  cut  the  fifh  as  before  direfted, 
and  make  a  little  gravy  with  the  bones  and  head. 

7J>  ^ra;  Soles,  Plaice,  or  Flounders.  Half  fry 
them  in  a  proper  quantity  of  butter  of  a  fine  brown, 
then  take  up  your  fifli,  put  to  your  butter  a  quart  of 
water,  and  boil  it  flowly  a  quarter  of  an  hour,  with  two 
anchovies  and  an  onion  fliced;  then  put  in  your  fifh 

again. 


^igts  S    O    L    E    Sv 

9gvn,  With  an  herring  and  ftew  them  gendy  twnty 
minutes  i  then  take  out  your  fifli^  and  thicken  die  Ikuce 
with  butter  and  flour^  and  give  it  a  boil ;  dien  ftrain  it 
through  a  hair  fieve  over  the  fifhj  and  fend  them  up 

hot. 

If  you  chuie  cockle  or  oyfter  liquor^  put  ic  in  Juft 
before  you  thicken  the  fauce^  or  you  may  fend  oyfters^ 
cocklesj  at  ihrimps,  in  a  fauce-boat  to  table. 

Toffy  Soles.  Having  fkinned  them,  rub  them  over 
with  yolk  of  egg,  ftrcw  on  them  very  fine  bread- 
crumbs, or  flour  them  j  fry  them  with  a  brifk  fire- 
Anchovy  fauce. 

Another  way.  Scale  and  trim  die  ibles  properly,  and 
ikin  the  black  fide  j  mix  fome  bread-crumbs  with  a 
very  litde  flour  i  bafte  the  foles  with  beat  tgg^^  and  ftrew 
them  over  with  the  bread-crumbs;  fry  them  in  hogs'- 
lard  of  a  good  colour.  Garnifh  with  fi-ied  parfley,  and  - 
lerve  with  anchovy  fauce,  &c.  in  a  fauce-boat. 

Flounders,  Plaice,  and  flat  filh  in  general  are 
dreflfed  in  the  manner  of  Soles :  in  regard  of  frying^ 
obferve, 

Flounders  are  only  to  be  gutted  and  their  flcin  wafhed 
with  water  and  fait ;  well  dried  with  a  cloth,  floured  and 
put  into  the  pan,  and  managed  as  the  fobs. 

And  Tlaice  after  the  fame  manner  as  flounders. 

IVhitings  are  alfo  done  as  the  former. 

Smelts  are  only  to  be  rubbed  with  a  coarfe  clothj 
floured  and  fiied. 

Gudgeons  muft  be  fcaled,  gutted  and  waflied,  then 
floured  and  put  into  hot  lard.— But  in  all  thefe  your  fire 
muft  be  quick. 

If 


S    O    L    fi    S.  ^Jj 

If  you  would  fiy  them  very  crifp,  ufe  fallad  ofl  in'- 
ftead  of  lard ;  or  you  may  ufe  good  beef  or  muttoa 
dripping  $  but  it  muft  be  made  as  hot  as  poflible  in  the 
pan  before  you  put  in  the  fiffa. 

The  fauce  for  thele  is  melted  butter  and  anchovy 
liquor^  with  flirimps  or  oyfters,  if  they  are  fingle. 

To  marinade  Soles.  Boil  them  in  fait  and  water, 
bone  and  tlrain  them>  and  lay  them  on  a  difh  with  their 
belUes  upwards :  boil  fome  fpinach^  and  pound  it  in  x 
mortar ;  then  boil  four  eggs  hard>  chop  the  yolks  and 
white  feparate^  and  lay  green,  white,  and  yellow 
among  the  folesj  and  ferve  them  up  with  mdted  butter 
in  a  boat. 

To  bake  Soles.  Gut,  wa&i,  and  (kin  them,  cut  oflT 
their  heads  and  tails,  flit  them  along  the  back,  and  fea* 
fon  them  with  fait,  pepper,  fweet  herbs,  parfley,  and 
whole  chives :  rub  a  difh-  with  butter,  and  lay  iiv  the 
{o\t&  \  pour  a  little  melted  butter  over  them,  and  ftrew 
over  that  fome  bread  grated  fine.  Bake  them  of  a  fine 
brown ;  and,  when  enough,  take  off  all  the  ht :  pour 
fome  anchovy  fauce  into  a  difh,  and  lay  the  fbles  upon 
it. 

Soles  with  force-meat.  Provide  a  pair  of  large  fbles, 
or  three  or  four  of  a  lefler  fize,  take  the  fkin  off  from 
both  fides,  and  foak  them  in  a  marinade  for  an  hour  $ 
dry  them  upon  a  cloth,  cut  them  down  the  middle,  and 
and  with  the  point  of  yotir  knife  raife  up  the  fillets : 
make  a  little  force-meat  of  the  flefh  of  a  couple  of  plaice 
or  flounders,  a  morfel  of  fuet,  feafen  with  a  mufhroom 
or  two,  a  green  onion  and  parfley  minced,  pepper  and 
folt,  and  nutmeg :  fcrape  a  bit  of  bacon,  and  fiy  it 
very  gently  i  let  it  cool,  and  pound  it  well  with  a  bit 

of 


jS4  S    b    ]j    £    S. 

of  bread  well  foaked^  and  a  couple  of  eggs^  takuig 
away  one  white;  lift  up  the  flefli  of  the  fbles^  and 
Oram  b  as  much  as  you  can :  brafli  ibme  egg  over 
them,  and  ftrew  crumbs  of  breads  a  little  oil>  or  oiled 
butter,  poured  upon  it.  Bake  them  about  half  an  hour 
6t  a  fine  colour,  and  fend  them  up,  gamilhed  with  iome 
Jittle  pats  of  your  foroe-meat  fried,  tnd  fome  parHey. 
For  your  lauce,  take  a  litde  iWeet  bafil,  pimpem^ 
thyme,  and  parfley,  a  (ballot  or  two  minced  fine,  with 
a  ladle  of  your  clear  gr^vy,  and  a  daih  of  white  wine, 
pepper,  and  fait ;  boil  all  together  for  a  few  minutes, 
iqueeze  in  a  lemon  or  two,  and  fend  it  up  in  a  fifh 
fauceboar. 

Small  grills  are  good  done  m  this  manner,  or  any 
other  firm-flefhed  filh. 

Soles  a-la-Frangoife.  Put  a  quart  of  water  and  half 
a  pint  of  vinegar  into  an  earthen  difh ;  (kin  and  clean  a 
pait  of  foles,  put  them  into  the  vinegar  and  water,  let 
them  lie  two  hours,  then  take  them  out  and  dry  them 
with  a  cloth ;  then  put  them  into  a  ftewpan  with  a  pint 
of  white  wine,  a  quarter  of  a  pint  of  water,  a  very  littk 
thyme,  a  little  fweet  marjoram,  winter  favoury,  and  an 
onion  (tuck  with  four  cloves :  put  in  the  Ibles,  fprinkle 
a  very  little  bay-falt,  and  cover  them  dofe ;  let  them 
fimmervery  gently  till  they  are  enough:  take  them 
out,  lay  them  in  a  warm  difh  before  the  fire  i  put  into 
the  liquor,  after  it  is  ilrained,  a  piece  of  butter  rolled 
in  flour,  let  it  boil  till  of  a  proper  thicknefs.  Lay  the 
foles  in  a  difh,  and  pour  the  (auce  over  them. 

A  fmail  turbot,  or  any  fiat  fiih,  may  be  drefled  in 
the  fame  manner, 

FtUcU 


S    O    U    t»    S.  3^5 

'kiUis  of  Solus  Be/b-a-mell.  Take  tWo  cold  boiled 
foles,  cut  them  in  fillets  two  inches  long  and  one  inch 
broad>  lay  them  into  a  ftewpan,'  and  make  a  ftuce  for 
them  as  follows :  Take  a  pint  of  cream,  put  it  in  a 
ftewpan,  with  a  flice  of  ham,  one  onion,  a  bit  of  par- 
ley, and  half  a  fmall  carrot ;  let  it  boil  till  it  comes  to 
half  a  pint,  IHrring  it  all  the  time ;  then  thicken  it  up 
\rith  a  little  butter  2tnd  flour,  ftrain  it  ujion  your  folest 
fet  it  upon  the  fire  to  boil,  add  a  little  pepper  and  fal^ 
ttid  fome  juice  of  lemon,  let  it  jufl  fimmer,  but  not 
boil,  and  fenre  it  up  hot  This  is  a  pretty  firfl  pr 
Second  courfe  difli. 

Fillets  of  Turbot  arc  done  the  lame  way» 


rtta 


S     O     UP     s. 

Observations.— ^Great  care  is  neceflary  to  be  taken 
that  the  potsi  or  faucepans,  and  covers,  be  very  clean> 
and  free  from  all  greafe  and  fand,  and  that  they  are  Well 
tinned,  for  fear  of  giving  the  broth  or  foups  any  brafiy 
tafte,  or  of  injuring  the  health  of  thofe  who  partake  of 
the  fcveral  difhes*  When  you  make  any  kind  of  foups^ 
Jjarticularly  portable,  vermicelli,  or  brown  gravy  faup> 
or  any  other  that  has  roots  or  herbs  in  it,  always  obferve 
to  lay  the  meat  in  the  bottom  of  yoiff  pan,  with  a  good 
tump  of  butter  j  cut  the  herbs  and  roots  fmall,  lay  thcnpt 
over  your  meat,  cover  it  clofe>  fet  it  over  a  very  flo# 
fife ;  it  will  draw  all  the  virtue  out  of  the  roots  Of  herbs, 
and  turn  it  to  a  good  gravy,  and  give  the  foup  a  very 
different  flavour  from  putting  water  in  at  the  firflr, 
Wheh'your  gravy  is  alhloft  dried  up,  fill  your  pan  widi 
'  tou  II,  D  d  d  water  : 


jW  S^O    U    P    s. 

water ;  when  tt  begins  to  boiU  take  ofF  the  fat,  a&d 
follow  the  dircftions  of  ydur  recipe  ibr  what  fort  of  foup 
y<5u  are  making.  When  you  make  old  peas  foup,  take 
foft  water ;  for  green  peas,  hard  is  preferable,  it  keeps 
the  peas  of  a  better  colour.  When  you  make  any  white 
foup,  do  not  put  in  cream  till  you  take  it  off  the  &€• 
Always  diih  up  your  foups  the  laft  thing.  If  it  be  a 
gravy  foup>  it  will  Ikim  over  if  you  let  it  ftand :  if  it 
be  a  peas  foup,  it  often  fetdes^  and  the  top  looks  thin. 
You  muft  obferve  in  all  broths  and  foups,  that  one 
thing  does  not  tafte  more  than  another,  but  that  the 
tafte  be  equal,  and  that  it  has  a  fine  agreeable  relilh^. 
according  to  what  you  defign  it  for  j  and  you  muft  be 
furethat  all  the  greens  and  herbs  you  put  in  are  cleaned^ 
wafhed,  and  picked. 

Rich  Fermicelli  Soup.  Put  four  ounces  of  butter  inta 
a  large  tofling  pan;  cut  a  knuckle  of  veal  and  a  fcrag 
<>f  mutton  into  fmall  pieces  about  the  iize  of  walnuts  ^ 
(lice  in  the  meat  of  a  fhank  of  ham,  with  three  or  four 
blades  of  mace,  two  or  three  carrots,  two  parihips,  two. 
large  onions^  "with  a  clove  ftuck  in  at  each  end :  cut  ii\. 
four,  or  five  heads  of  celery  walhed  clean,  a  bunch  of 
fwcct  herbs,  eight  or  ten  morels,  and  an  anchovy. 
Cover  die  pan  clofe,  and  let  it  over  a  flow  fire,  without 
any  water,  till  the  gravy  is  drawn  out  of  the  meat;  pour 
the  gravy  out  into  a  pot  or  bafon  j  kt  the  meat  brown 
in  the  fame  pan,  and  take  care  it  does  not  burn;  then 
pour  in  four  quarts  of  water,  let  it  boil  gendy  till  it  is 
wafted  to  diree  pints :  ftrain  it,  and  put  the  gravy  to  it,^ 
fct  it  on  the  fire,  add  to  it  two  ounces  of  vermicelli,  cut 
the  niceft  part  of  a  head  of  celery,  add  kyan  pepper,! 
lalt  to  your  tafte,  and  let  it  boil  for  fqur  minutes*    it 

not 


SOUPS.  '387 

hot  a  good  colour,  put  in  a  little  browning,  lay  a  fmall 
French  roll  in  the  foup-difli,  pour  in  the  foup  upon  it,' 
and  lay  fonnc  of  the  vermicelli  over  it. 

Another  way.  Take  three  quarts  of  the  broth,  and 
fbme  of  the  gravy  mixed  together,  a  quarter  of  a  pound 
of  vermicelli  blanched  in  two  quarts  of  water  \  put  it 
into  the  fbup,  boil  it  up  for  ten  minutes,  and  feafon 
with  fait,  if  it  wants  any.  Put  it  in  your  tureen,  with 
ft  cruft  of  a  French  roll  baked. 

Vermicelli  Soup,  with  Meat  or  Ftjh.  For  a  middling 
difh,  take  about  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  vermicelli, 
which  you  (cald  a  moment  in  boiling  water ;  then  drain 
it,  and  boil  in  good  broth  or  gravy,  and  a  bit  of  bacon. 
.When  boiled  tender,  take  out  the  bacon,  feafon  it  with 
fait,  and  fkim  off  the  fat  very  clean  \  it  muft  be  ferved 
of  a  middling  confiftence.  If  you  would  make  it  of  a 
craw-fifli  cuUis,  or  any  other,  you  will  only  mix  it  a 
moment  before  you  fervc.  If  it  is  for  meagre,  fcald 
y^ur  vermicelli  as  above,  and  boil  it  with  fifli  broth 
and  butter ;  adding  a  lialbn  of  yolks  of  eggs,  made 
with  the  fame  broth  and  gravy. 

Macaroni  Soup.  Mix  three  quarts  of  ftrong  broth^ 
and  one  of  gravy.  Take  half  a  pound  of  fmall  pipe- 
macaroni,  and  boil  it  in  three  quarts  of  water,  with  a 
little  butter  in  it,  till  it  is  tender  $  then  ftrain  it  through 
a  fieve :  cut  it  in  pieces  of  about  two  inches  in  lengthy 
put  it  into  your  feup,  and  boil  it  up  for  ten  minutes^ 
Send  it  to  table  in  a  tureen,  with  the  cruft  of  a  French 
roll  toafted. 

SouPE  au  Bourgeois.  Cut  ten  or  a  dozen  heads  of 
endive,  and  four  or  five  bunches  of  celery  into  fmaU 
bits  i  wafh  them*  let  them  be  well  dnuncd  from  the 

D  d  d  2  wato>a 


^8$  SOU    P    9. 

wateTjt  and  put  into  a  large  pan ;  pour  upon  them  fow 
quarts  of  boiling  water  i  fet  on  three  quarts  of  beef 
gravy  made  for  ibup^  in  a  large  faucepan,  ftrain  the 
herh|S  ftom  the  water  very  dry :  when  the  gravy  txnl^^  pu^ 
f  hem  in.  Cut  off  rfic  ^rufts  of  two  French  roUs,  break 
fhem^  and  put  into  the  reft.  When  the  herbs  are  ten- 
^er^  the  ibup  is  enough.  A  boiled  fowl  may  be  pu^ 
into  the  nUddle,  bu(  it  is  very  good  without. 

If  a  whit?  foup  is  liked  hcpscTy  it  ihould  be  veal 
pavy.  .   . 

Another.  ^4y.  Bo^  abaut  ^^e  pounds  of  beef  if) 
three  piot$  pf  water^  and  ikim  it  ^eU ;  then  add  three 
or  four  carrots^  two  parfnips^  a  few  onions^  accordiag 
to  their  bignefs>  ftuck  with  two  c^ovesij^  a  few  leeks,  ^ 
lettuce^  celery,  ibrrel>  and  n  finaU  knuckle  of  vcalj 
fitft  fcalded :  boil  all  together  about  two  hours.  Serve 
your  broth  and  the  knuckle  of  veal  in  it, 

Onion  Soup.  Boil  cm^  or  ten  large  Spanifh  onions  in 
milk  and  water,  change  it  three  times  i  when  they  arc 
quite  foft,  rub  them  through  a  hair  fieve.  Cut  an  old 
cock  in  pieces,  and  boil  it  for  gravy,  with  one  bkde  of 
mace :  ftrain  it,  and  pour  it  upon  the  pulp  of  the 
onions ;  boil  it  gently  with  die  crumb  of  an  old  peony 
loaf,  grated  into  half  a  pint  of  cream  -,  add  kyan  pepper 
and  fait  to  your  tafte :  a  few  heads  of  afparagus»  or 
boiled  ipinach,  both  make  it  eat  well  and  look  very 
pretty.  Grate  a  crufl:  of  brown  bread  round  the  edge 
of  the  difk 

Ox-cheek  Soup.  Break  the  bones  of  an  ox -cheeky 
and  wafh  them  till  diey  are  perfe£bly  clean ;.  lay  diem 
in  warm  Vater,  and  throw  in  a  litile  fait,  which  wiH 
letch  out  the  flioie :  thA  take  a  laige  ftewpan,  and  put 

tiWQ 


S    O    U    P    Si  .  ^ 

fwo  ounces  of  butter  at  the  bottom  of  1%  and  Uj  ths 
flcfhy  fide  of  the  cheek-bone  iq  iti  ad4  %o  1%  half  9 
pound  of  fhank  of  ham  cut  in  flicesj  and  four  heads  ai 
celery^  with  the  leaves  puUed  (^>  and  the  heads  wafheii 
dean  j  cut  them  mto  the  foiip  with  thre^  U^^  onions^ 
fwo  carrot9>  a  parfnip  (licedj  a  few  beets  cut  fhiaU|  am} 
three  blades  of  mace  1  f^  it  over  Or  moderate  fire  lor  4 
quarter  of  aa  hour,  wh^ch  will  draw  the  virtue  from  ;he 
roots»  aod  give  to  the  gravy  ai)  agreeably  ftrength,  Ai 
very  good  gravy  noay  be  itiadie  by  this  methodi  with 
roots  and  buttrcj  addiiig^oiily  a  little  t»pw(ii^g  to  ^iv^ 
k  a  good  eolpur,  When  th^  head  h^  fimmered  a  quar^ 
ter  of  an  hour^  put  to  it  fix  quarts  pf  water^  and  let  it 
tflew  till  it  is  reduced  to  two  quarts.  Jf  yo\(  ivould  hav^ 
it  eat  Uke  jfoupji  ftra^n  and  take  out  the  meat  and  the 
other  ingredients^  and  put  yi  the  white  part. of  a  hea4 
of  celery  cut  in  imall  pieces^  with  a  little  browning  to 
snake  it  .of  a  fine  colour,  T^^^  ^o  ounces  of  veroair 
celli,  give  it  a  fcald  in  the  ibop^  and  put  it  intq  the  ta^ 
Tccn,  with  the  top  of  a  French  roll  in  the  middle  of  it. 
If  you  would  have  it  eat  Uke  a  fteWj  take  up  the  facfi 
as  whole  as  poffible^  and  have  ready  a  boilod  turnip  and 
carjtot  cut  ;n  fquare  piece6>  and  a  flice  of  bread  toafted 
and  cut  in  fmall  dice  s  put  in  a  little  kyan  pepper>  and 
^ain  the  foup  through  a  hair  fieve  upon  the  mea^ 
breads  turnip>  and  carrot* 

Soup  Lorraine.  Take  a  pofund  o(  fweet  almond^ 
blanch  and  be^t  them  in  a  mortar>  with,  a  very  little  ' 
water  tx>  keep  them  from  oiling  s  put  to  them  all  the 
li?hi;e  part  of  a  large  roail  fowl,  and  the  yolks  of  fi>ur 
poached  eggs  i  pound 'all  together  as  fine,  as  poflible^ 
Take  three  quarts  of  ftrong  veal  broth  ^  let  it  be  very 

whitQ 


^Sf>  *  d  u  p  s. 

.    •  •  •  -  • 

And  fldm  off  aQl  the  fat  •  put  it  into  a  ftcwpan  with  aU 
Ihe  other  ingredients,  and  mix  them  well  together,  boil 
diem  fofdy  over  a  ftove,  or  on  a  clear  fire :  cut  the 
iN^iite  part  ^  another  roaft  fowl  very  fine ;  feaibn  with 
^pepper,  (ale,  nutmeg,  and  a  little  beaten  mace;  put  in 
«  piece  of  butter  as  big  as  an  egg,  and  a  fpoonful  or  two 
of  the  foup  drained,  and  fet  it  over  the  ftovc  to  be  quite 
hot.  Cut  two  French  rolls  in  thin  flices,  and  fet  them 
before  the  ftre  to  crifp :  take  one  of  the  hollow  rolls, 
which  are  made  for  oyfter  loaves,  and  fill  it  with  the 
inince ;  lay  on  the  top  as  clofe  as  poffible,  and  keep  it 
hot :  jfh*ain  the  foup  through  a  piece  of  dimity  into  a 
dean  faucepan,  and  let  it  ftew  till  it  is  the  thickneis  of 
cream,  '  Put  the  crifped  bread  in  the  difli  or  tureen» 
pour  the  fauce  over  it,  and  place  the  roll  with  the 
tninced  meat  in  the  middle. 

*  Dauphin  Soup.  Put  a  few  flices  of  lard  in  the  bot« 
torn  of  your  faucepan,  iliced  ham  and  veal,  three  onions 
fliced,  a  carrot  and  parfnip :  foak  over  the  fire  till  it 
catches,  then  add  weak  broth  or  boiling  water ;  l)oil  it 
on  a  flow  fire  till  the  meat  is  done.  Pound  the  breaft 
of  a  roafted  fowl,  fix  yolks  of  hard  eggs,  as  many 
Iweet  almonds;  fift  your  broth,  and  add  fomc  of 
it  to  your  compound.  Soak  your  bread,  till  tender, 
in  brodi ;  warm  your  cullis  without  boiling,  and  mix 
it  with  as  much  broth  as  gives  it  a  pretty  thick  con^ 
fiftence.  You  may  garnifli  this  foup  with  a  fowl,  or 
knuckle  of  veal,  as  in  all  white  foups. 

Calfs  Head  Soup.  After  wafhing  a  calf's  heai3  clean^ 
ftew  it  viixh  a  bunch  of  fwect  herbs,  an  onion  ftuck  with 
tlovcs,  mace^  pearl  barleyj  and  Jamaica  pepper :  when 


S"0    U    P    S,  s^n. 

h  is  very  tender,  put  to  it  fome  ftewed  celery  j  feafon. 

it  with  pepper,   and  fcrve  it  with  the  head  in  the , 
aiiddle^ 

Grazy  Soup  thickened  with  yellow  Peas.  Put  in  fix 
quarts  of  water^  a  fliin  of  bee^  a  pint  of  peas,  and  fuc 
onions ;  fet  them  over  the  lire,  and  let  them  boil  gendy 
till  all  the  juice  is  out  of  the  meat ;  then  ilram  it  through 
a  fieve ;  add  to  the  ftrained  liquor^  one  quart  of  ftrong 
gravy  to  make  it  broWn ;  put  in  pepper  and  fait  to  your 
tafte ;  then  put  in  a  little  celery  and  beet-leaves,  and 
boil  all  till  they  are  tender. 

Giblet  Soup.  Provide  about  two  pounds  of  fcrag  of 
mutton,  the  fame  quantity  of  fcrag  of  veal,  and  four 
pounds  of  gravy -beef;  put  this  meat  in  two  gallons  of 
water,  and  let  it  ftew  very  fofdy  till  it  is  a  ftrong  broth. 
Let  it  (land  till  it  be  cold,  and  fkim  off  the  fat.  Take 
two  pair  of  giblets,  fcalded  and  cleaned,  put  them  into 
the  broth,  and  let  them  fimmer  till  they  are  very  tender : 
take  out  the  giblets  and  (train  the  foup  through  a  cloth  i 
put  a  piece  of  butter  rolled  in  flour  into  a  flewpan, 
pnake  it  of  a  light  brown.  Have  ready,  chopped  fmall, 
fome  parfley,  chives,  a  little  penny-royal,  and  a  little 
fwcet  maijoram ;  put  the  foup  over  a  very  flow  fire : 
put  in  the  giblets,  fried  butter,  herbs,  a  little  Madcir* 
wine,  fome  fait,  and  fome  kyan  pepper ;  let  them  fim- 
mer till  the  herbs  are  tender,  then  fend  the  foup  to 
table  with  the  giblets  in  it. 

Hare  Soup.  This  being  a  rich  foup,  is  proper  for 
a' large  entertainment,  and  may  be  placed  at  the  bottom 
of  the  table,  where  two  foups  are  required,  and  almond 
or  onion  foup'  be  at  the  top.  Hare  foup  is  thus  made : 
Qut  a  large  .old  hare  into  fmall  pieces,  and  pyt  it  in  a 

mug* 


39»  SOUPS. 

mug,  with  three  blades  of  mace,  a  little  Adtj  two  }arg0 
onions,  a  red  herrings  fix  morels,  half  a  pint  of  red 
wine,  and  three  quarts  of  water :  bake  it  three  hours  in 
a  quick  oven,  and  then  drain  it  into  a  toiEng-pan* 
Have  ready  boiled  three  ounces  of  French  barley,  or 
ftgo,  in  water  j  then  put  the  liver  of  the  hare  two  mi- 
nutes in  fcalding  water,  and  rub  it  through  a  hair  fieve 
with  the  back  of  a  wooden  fpoon  j  put  it  into  the  foup 
with  the  barley,  or  fago,  and  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of 
butter :  fct  it  over  the  fire,  and  keep  it  ftirring,  but  do 
not  let  it  boil.  If  you  dilapprove  of  the  liver,  you  may 
put  in  crifped  bread,  fteeped  in  red  wine. 

Soup  a-la-Reine.  Take  a  knuckle  of  veal,  and  three 
or  four  pounds  of  lean  beef,  put  to  it  fix  quarts  of  watef 
with  a  litde  fait :  when  it  boils,  flcim  it  well,  then  put 
in  fix  large  onions,  two  carrots,  a  head  or  two  of  celery, 
a  parfiiip,  one  leek,  and  a  little  thyme  -,  boil  them  all 
together  till  the  meat  is  boiled  quite  down,  then  ftrain  it 
through  a  hair  ficve,  and  let  it  fl:and  about  half  an  hour^ 
then  Ikim  it  well,  and  clear  it  off  gently  from  the  fct- 
clings  into  a  clean  pan.  Boil  half  a  pint  of  cteam,  and 
pour  it  on  the  crumb  of  a  halfpenny  loaf,  and  let  it 
(oak  well :  take  half  a  pound  of  almonds,  blanch  and 
beat  them  as  fine  as  poflible,  putting  in  now  and  then  a 
litde  cream  to  prevent  them  from  oiling  j  then  take  the 
yolks  of  fix  hard  eggs,  and  the  roll  that  is  foaked  in  the 
cream,  and  beat  them  all  together  quite  fine;  then 
make  your  broth  hot,  and  pour  it  to  your  almonds : 
ftrain  it  through  a  fine  hair  fieve,  rubbing  it  with  a 
fpoon  till  all  the  goodnefs  is  gone  through  into  a  ilew« 
pan,  and  add  more  cream  ta  make  it  white  -,  fct  it  over 

the  fire,  keep  ftirring  it  tiU'  it  bgSi,  Qim  off  the  froth  aa 

■ 


SOUPS.  393. 

it  rlfes,  Ibak  the  tops  of  two  French  rolls  in  melted 
butter,  in  a  ftewpan,  till  they  are  crilp,  but  not  brown ; 
then  take  them  out  of  the  butter,  and  lay  them  ^n  a 
plate  before  the  fire  -,  and  a  quarter  of  an  hour  before 
you  fend  it  to  the  table,  take  a  litde  of  the  foup  hot, 
and  put  it  to  the  roll  in  the  bottom  of  the  tureen ;  put 
your  foup  on  the  fire,  keep  ftirring  it.tili  ready  to  boil, 
then  put  it  into  your  tureen,  and  ferve  it  up  hot.  Be 
fure  you  take  all  the  fat  off  the  broth  before  you  put  it 
f:o  the  almonds,  or  it  will  ipoil  it ;  and  take  care  it  does 
not  curdle. 

Another  way.  Cut  two  pounds  of  lean  veal  into  flices, 
and  put  into  a  ftewpan,  with  two  or  three  flices  of  ham, 
or  lean  bacon,  a  carrot,  a  large  onion  diced,  four  pep- 
per corns,  a  dozen  coriander  feeds;  let  thefe  draw  very 
gently  j  add  four  quarts  of  beef  broth,  and  let  it  boil 
gendy  for  one  hour ;  ftrain  it,  pound  the  white  of  ^ 
roaft  fowl,  blanch  and  beat  t^df  a  pound  of  (weet  al- 
monds, half  a  dozen  of  bitter  i  bruife  four  yolks  of  eggs 
boiled  hard  5  mix  thefe  with  the  foup,  rub  it  through  a 
napkin,  heat  it,  and  add -a  little  cream ;  keep  it  ftirring, 
but  do  not  let  it  boil ;  put  into  the  tureen  the  crumb  of 
French  roll  whole. 

Soup  Crejjy.  Take  a  pound  of  lean  ham,  and  cut  It 
into  fmall  bits,  and  put  at  the  bottom  of  a  ftewpan,  then 
cut  a  French  roll  and  put  over  the  ham  :  take  half  a 
dozen  heads  of  celery  cut  fmall,  fix  onions,  two  tur* 
nips,  one  carrot,  cut  and  wafhed  very  clean,  fix  cloves, 
four  blades  of  mace,  two  handfuls  of  water-crefTes ;  put 
them  all  into  the  ftewpan,  with  a  pint  of  good  broth ; 
cover  them  clofe,  and  fweat  it  gendy  for  twenty  nrii- 
nutes ;  then  fill  it  up  with  veal  broth,  and  ftew  it  for 

Vol.  II.  JE  e  c  four 


J94  SOUPS. 

four  hours :  rub  it  through  a  fine  fievc  or  clothj  put  it 
in  your  pan  again ;  feafbn  it  with  fait  and  a  little  kyan 
pepper ;  give  it  a  fimmer  upj  and  fend  it  to  table  hot* 
with  fome  French  roll  toafted  hard  in  it :  boil  a  handful 
of  creffes,  till  tender,  in  water,  and  put  it  over  the 
bread. 

JImond  Soup.     Chop  a  neck  of  veal,  and  the  (crag' 
end  of  a  neck  of  mutton  into  fmall  pieces,  put  them  in 
a  large  tolling-pan ;  cut  in  a  turnip,  with  a  blade  or 
two  of  mace,  and  five  quarts  of  water ;  fet  it  over  the 
fire,  and  let  it  boil  gently  till  it  is  reduced  to  two 
quarts  j  ftrain  it  through  a  hair  fieve  into  a  clear  pot, 
then  put  in  fix  ounces  of  almonds  blanched  and  beat 
fine,  half  a  pint  of  thick  cream,  and  kyan  pepper  to 
your  tafte ;  have  ready  three  fmall  French  rolls,  made 
for  that  purpofe,  ^the  fize  of  a  fmall  tea-cup ;   if  they 
are  larger,  they  will  not  look  well,  and  drink  up  too 
much  of  the  foup ;  blanch  a  few  Jordan  almonds,  and 
cut  them  lengdiways,  ftick  them  round  the  edge  of 
the  rolls  flank-ways,  then  ftick  thcni  all  over  the  top  of 
the  rolls,  and  put  them  in  the  tureen.     When  difhed 
up,  pour  the  foup  upon  the  rolls :  thefe  rolls  look  like 
a  hedge-hog.     Some  French  cooks  give  this  foup  the 
liame  of  Hedge-hog  Soup. 

Soup  Sant^,  or  Grairy  Souf.  Put  fix  good  rafhers  of 
Jean  ham  in  the  bottom  of  a  ftewpan ;  then  put  over  it 
three  pounds  of  lean  beef,  and  over  the  beef  three 
pounds  of  lean  veal,  fix  onions  cut  in  dices,  two  carrots, 
and  two  turnips  fliced,  two  heads  of  celery,  and  a  bundle 
of  fweet  herbs,  fix  cloves,  and  two  blades  of  mace  i  put 
a  little  water  at  the  bottom,  draw  it  very  gently  till  it 
fticks,  then  put  in  a  gallon  of  boiling  water  j  let  it  ftcw 

for 


SOUPS.  39$ 

Ibr  two  hours>  feafon  with  falt^  and  ilrain  it  off;  then 
have  ready  a  carrot,  cut  in  fmall  pieces  of  two  inches 
long,  and  about  as  thick  as  a  goofe-quill,  a  turnip,  two 
heads  of  Icfeks,  two  heads  of  celery,  two  heads  of  endive 
cut  acrbfs,  two  cabbage-lettuces  cut  acrofs,  a  very  litdc 
forrel,  and  chervil;  put  them  in  a  ftewpan,  and  fweat 
them  for  fifteen  minutes  gendy ;  then  put  them  in  your 
Ibup,  boil  it  up  gently  for  ten  minutes ;  put  it  in  your 
tureen,  with  a  craft  of  French  roll. 

You  may  boil  the  herbs  in  two  quarts  of  water  for  ten 
minutes,  if  you  like  them  beft  fb ;  your  foup  will  be  the 
clearer. 

Soup  Sanie,  with  Herbs.  Of  herbs  or  vegetables^ 
you  muft  make  (hift  with  celery  and  endives  in  the  win- 
ter, but  add  a  lettuce,  if  you  can  get  it ;  provide  a 
duckling,  or  a  chicken  neady  blanched,  and  boil  it  in 
your  foup,  which  is  nothing  more  than  broth  or  gravy^ 
with  the  celery,  &c.  cut  in  bits  about  an  inch  long  s 
let  it  boil  gently  for  an  hour  or  {p  i  and,  when  it  is  al^ 
moft  your  rime  of  dining,  add  a  litde  fpinach,  forrel, 
and  chervil,  chopped,  but  not  fmall,  and  boil  it  about 
five  minutes ;  prepare  your  crufts  in  a  ftewpan,  and  lay 
at  the  bottom  of  your  dilh  j  put  your  duckling  in  the 
middle,  and  pour  your  foup  over  it  j  and  ferve  it  up 
with  fome  thin  bits  of  celery  for  gamifh,  or  without,  as 
you  like  beft* 

For  the  fummer  feafon,  you  may  add  a  handful  of 
peas,  heads  of  afparagus,  nice  litde  firm  bits  of  cauli- 
flower, bottoms  of  artichokes,  &c,  and  you  may  vary 
it  with  many  odier  things  diat  the  feafon  afibrds*  * 

Soup  «Ka»//,  thi  Englifh  way.  Provide  about  ten  or 
twelve  pounds  of  gravy-beef,  a  koilcklc  of  veal,  and 

E  e  e  a  the 


396  SOUPS. 

the  knuckle  part  of  a  leg  of  mutton,  a  coaple  of  fowls 
(or  two  old  cocks  will  do  as  well)  and  a  gallon  of  water i 
let  thcfe  (lew  very  foftly,  till  reduced  to  one  half  (fct 
them  on  to  ftew  the  night  before)  ;  add  to  them  fomc 
crufts  of  bread ;  put  in  a  bunch  of  fwect  herbs^  ibme 
celery,  ibrrel,  chervil,  and  purflain,  if  agreeable  ^  or 
any  of  them  may  be  left  out :  when  it  is  ftrong  amf 
good,  ftrain  it ;  fend  it  to  table,  with  either  a  roaft  or 
boiled  fowl,  or  a  piece  of  roaftcd  or  boiled  neck  of  real, 
ih'the  middle,  and  Ibme  fried  bread  in  a  plate. 

Crcm-jifh  Soup.  Take  a  gallon  of  water,  and  fct  it 
a  boiling ;  put  in  it  a  bunch  of  fweet  herbs,  three  or 
four  blades  of  mace,  an  onion  ftuck  with  cloves,  pep- 
per, and  fait ;  then  have  about  two  hundred  craw-filh, 
fave  about  twenty,  and  pick  the  reft  from  the  IheQs, 
faving  the  tails  whole  j  beat  the  body  and  ihells  in  a  mor- 
tar, with  a  pint  of  peas,  green  or  dry,  firft  boiled  tender 
in  fair  water ;  put  your  boiling  water  to  it,  and  ftrain  it 
boiling  hot  through  a  cloth,  till  you  have  all  the  good- 
nefs  out  of  it  J  fet  it  over  a  flow  fire  or  ftcw-hole;  have 
ready  a  French  roll,  cut  very  thin,  and  let  it  be  very 
dry  J  put  it  to  your  foup,  let  it  ftew  till  half  is  wafted, 
then  put  a  piece  of  butter  as  big  as  an  egg  into  a  faucc- 
pan,  let  it  fimmer  till  it  has  done  making  a  noife,  fliake 
in  two  tea-fpoonfuls  of  flowch,  ftirring  it  about,  and  an 
onion  j  put  in  the  tails  of  the  fi/h,  give  them  a  ihake 
round,  put  to  them  a  pint  of  good  gravy ;  let  it  boil 
four  or  five  minutes  fofUy  \  take  out  the  onion,  and  put 
to  it  a  pint  of  the  foup  j  ftir  it  well  together ;  bruife  the 
live  Ipawn  of  a  hen  lobfter,  and  put  it  all  together,  and 
let  it  iimmer  very  foftly  a  quarter  of  an  Jiour ;  fry  a 
French  roll  very  nice  and  brown,  and  tlie  twenty  craw- 

filhi 


[ 


If 


S    O    tr    I>    S.  5j7 

fiih ;  pour  your  Ibup  into  the  difh^  and  lay  the  rdl  in 
the  middle,  and  the  craw-fifh  round  the  di(h« 

Craw-Jifh  Soup,  another  way.  Boil  about  fifty  fretit 
craw-fifh ;  pick  out  all  the  meat,  which  you  muft  fave ; 
pick  out  all  the  meat  of  a  frefli  lobfter,  which  you  muft 
likewife  fave;  pound  the  Ihells  of  the  craw-fifti  (but. 
pick  out  all  the  bags  and  the  woolly  part)  and  lobfter 
fine  in  a  marble  mortar,  and  boil  them, in  four  quarts  of 
water,  with  four  pounds  of  mutton,  a  pint  of  green  Iplit 
peas,  nicely  picked  and  waftied,  a  large  turnip,  carrot 
onion,  mace,  cloves,  anchovy ,  a  little  thyme,  pepper,  and 
falc ;  ftew  them  on  a  flow  fire,  till  all  the  goodnefs  is 
out  of  the  mutton  and  fliells,  then  ilrain  it  through  a 
fieve,  and  put  in  the  tails  of  your  craw-fifh,  and  th« 
lobfter-meat,  but  in  very  fmall  pieces,  with  the  red  coral 
of  the  lobfter,  if  it  has  any ;  boil  it  half  an  hour,  and 
juft  before  you  fcrve  it  up,  add  a  little  butter  melted 
thick  and  fmooth ;  ftir  it  round  fcvcral  times,  when  you 
put  it  in  i  fend  it  very  hot  -,  but  do  not  put  too  much 
(pice  in  it. 

Prawns  make  an  excellent  foup,  done  juft  in  the  fame 
manner. 

Plum  Pottage  _/&r  Chriftmas.  Put  a  leg  and  fhin  of 
beef  into  eight  gallons  of  water,  and  boil  them  till  they 
are  very  tender :  when  the  broth  is  ftrong,  ftrain  it  out; 
then  wipe  the  pots,  and  put  in  the  broth  again :  flice 
Tix  penny  loaves  thin,  cut  oiF  the  tops  and  bottoms,  put 
fome  of  the  liquor  to  them,  and  cover  them  up,  and  let 
them  ftand  for  a  quarter  of  an  hour ;  then  boil  and  ftrain 
it,  and  put  it  into  your  pot ;  let  them  boil  a  little,  and 
then  put  in  five  pounds  of  ftewed  raifins  of  the  fun,  and 
two  pounds  of  prunes ;  let  it  boil  a  quarter  of  an  hour, 

then 


\ 


J98  SOUPS. 

then  put  in  five  pounds  of  currants  dean  wafiied  ancf 
picked.  Let  thefc  boil  till  they  fwell,  and  then  put  in 
three  quarters  of  an  ounce  of  mace,  half  an  ounce  of 
cloves,  and  two  nutmegs,  all  beat  fine.  Before  you 
put  tbefe  into  the  pot,  mix  them  with  a  little  cold  liquor, 
and  do  not  put  them  in  but  a  litde  while  before  you  take 
ofi^  the  pot ;  when  you  take  off  the  pot,  put  in  three 
pounds  of  fugar,  a  little  fait,  a  quart  of  fack,  a  quart  of 
claret,  and  the  juice  of  two  or  three  lemons.  You  may 
thicken  with  fago  inftead  of  bread,  if  you  pleafc.  Pour 
your  pottage  into  earthen  pans,  and  keep  it  for  ufe. 

Soup  and  Bouillie.  For  the  bouilUe,  roll  five 
pounds  of  brifket  of  beef  tight  with  a  tape  j  put  it  into 
a  fiewpan,  widi  four  pounds  of  the  leg  of  mutton  piece 
of  beef,  and  about  feven  or  eight  quarts  of  water.    Boil 

^  thefe  up  as  quick  as  poffible,  (kim  it  very  clean  j  add 
one  large  onion,  fix  or  feven  cloves,  fome  whole  pepper, 
two  or  three  carrots,  a  turnip  or  two,  a  leek,  and  two 
heads  of  celery.  Stew  this  very  gendy,  clofe  covered^ 
for  fix  or  feven  hours.  About  an  hour  before  dinner, 
ftrain  the  foup  through  a  piece  of  dimity  that  has  been 
dipped  in  cold  water.  Put  the  rough  fide  upwards. 
Have  ready  boiled  carrots  cut  like  little  wheels,  turnips 
cut  in  balls,  fpinach,  a  little  chervil  and  forrel,  two  heads 
of  endive,  one  or  two  of  cciisry  cut  in  pieces.  Put  thefe 
into  a  tureen,  with  a  Dutch  loaf,  or  a  French  roll  dried, 
after  the  crumb  is  taken  out.     Pour  the  foup  to  thefe 

.  boiling  hot  -,  add  a  litde  fait  and  kyan.  Take  the  tape 
from  the  bouillie  -,  ferve  it  in  a  feparate  dilh ;  maflied 
turnips,  and  fliced  carrots,  in  two  litde  dirties.  The 
turnips  and  carrots  (hould  be  cut  with  an  inftrument 
that  may  be  bought  for  that  purpofe. 


^ 


SOUPS.  399 

•  A  Tranjparent  Soup.  Cut  the  meat  from  a  leg  of 
veal,  in  fmall  pieces,  and  when  you  have  taken  all  the 
meat  from  the  bone,  break  the  bone  in  fmall  pieces. 
Put  the  meat  in  a  large  jug,  and  the  bones  at  top,  with 
a  bunch  of  fwect  herbs,  a  quarter  of  an  ounce  of  mace, 
half  a  pound  of  Jordan  almonds,  blanched  and  beat  fine* 
Pour  on  it  four  quarts  of  boiling  water ;  let  it  ftand  all  night 
by  the  fire,  covered  clofe.  The  next^day  put  it  into  a  well 
lined  faucepan,  and  let  it  boil  flowly  till  it  is  reduced  to 
two  quarts.  Be  fure  y^ou  take  the  fcum  and  fat  off  as  it 
rifes,  all  the  time  it  is  boiling.  Strain  it  into  a  punch 
bowl,  let  it  fetde  for  two  hours,  pour  it  mto  a  clean 
faucepan,  clear  from  the  fediments,  if  any,  at  the  bottom. 
Have  ready  three  ounces  of  rice,  boiled  in  water.  If 
you  like  vermicelli  better,  boil  two  ounces«  Whea 
enough,  put  it  in,  and  ferve  it  up. 

Green  Peas  Soup.  Cut  a  knuckle  of  veal,  and  one 
pound  of  lean  ham  into  thin  dices  s  lay  the  ham  at  the 
bottom  of  a  foup  pot,  the  veal  upon  the  ham  -,  then  cut 
fix  onions  in  dices,  and  put  on  two  or  three  turnips,  two 
carrots,  three  heads  of  celery  cut  fmall,  a  little  thyme, 
four  cloves,  and  four  blades  of  mace.  Put  a  litde  water 
at  the  ^bottom,  coyer  the  pot  clofe,  and  draw  it  gendy, 
but  do  not  let  it  flick  -,  then  put  in  fix  quarts  of  boiling 
water,  let  it  ftew  gendy  for  four  hours,  and  Ikim  it  wclL 
Take  two  quarts  of  green  peas  and  flew  them  in  fbmc 
of  the  broth  till  tender ;  then  ftrain  them  off,  and  put 
them  in  a  marble  mortar,  and  beat  them  fine.  Put  the 
liquor  in  and  mix  them  up,  (if  you  have  no  mortar,  you 
mufl  bruife  them  in  the  befl  manner  you  can).  Take 
a  tammy,  or  fine  cloth,  and  rub  them  through  till  you 
have  rubbed  all  the  pulp  out,  and  then  put  your  foup 

into 


4o.>  S    O    U    P    S, 

jpto  a  clean  pot,  with  half  a  pint  of  fpinach  juice,  an^ 
boil  it  up  for  fifteen  minutes.  Seafon  with  fait,  and  a 
little  pepper*  If  your  foup  is  not  thick  enough,  take 
die  crumb  of  a  French  roll,  and  boil  it  in  a  litde  of  the 
foup,  beat  in  the  m.ortar,  and  rub  it  through  your  tam- 
my or  cloth  J  then  put  in  your  foup  and  boil  it  up. 
Then  put  it  in  your  tureen,  with  dice  of  bread  toaftecf 
▼try  hard. 

Jmther  way.  Take  four  or  five  pounds  of  the  knuc- 
kle or  fcrag  of  veal,  boil  it  to  rags  in  four  or  five  quarts 
frf"  water,  with  fait,  pepper,/ a  little  mace,  and  an  onion. 
Strain  this ;  put  to  the  liquor  one  quart  of  old  peas  \ 
boil  them  till  tender,  pulp  them  through  a  fievc;  add 
about  a  pint  or  more  of  young  peas,  half  boiled,  fpioadi^ 
lettuce,  and  cabbage,  firft  boiled,  then  fried.  Soil  aho-» 
gether  till  the  peas  are  enough  ^  add  a  little  kyan,  fkim 
off*  the  fat  that  rifcs  fi-om  the  greens.  Add  a  little  chop- 
ped mint  I  boil  the  meat  the  night  before.  Neck ,  of 
lamb  will  fupply  fhe  place  of  veal. 

Aaother  way*  Provide  a  peck  of  peas,  fhcU  thenrij 
and  boil  them  in  fpring  water  till  they  are  foft ;  then 
work  them  through  a  hair  fieve ;  take  the  water  that 
your  peas  were  boiled  in,  and  put  in  a  knuckle  of  yeal^ 
three  fiices  of  ham,  and  cut  two  carrots,  a  turnip,  and  a 
iew  beet  leaves,  ihred  fmail ;  add  a  little  more  water  to 
the  meat,  fet  it  over  the  fire,  and  let  it  boil  one  hour 
and  a  half;  then  ftrain  the  gravy  into  a  bowl,  and  mix 
it  with  the  pulp,  and  put  in  a  little  juice  of  fpinach, 
which  mufi:  be  beat  and  fqueezed  through  a  cloth ;  put 
in  as  mudi  as  will  make  it  look  a  pretty  colour,  then 
give  it  a  gentle  boil,  which  will  take  off  the  tafte  of  the 
fpinach  i  (lice  in  the  whitcfl  part  of  a  head  of  celery^ 

put 


Ji 


SOUPS.  40t 

put  in  &  lump  of  fugar  the  fize  of*  a  walnlit,  take  a  (lice 
of  bread,  and  cut  it  in  little  fqUare  pieces  -,  cut  a  little 
bacon  the  fame  w^y^  fry  them  i  light  brown,  in  frelh 
butter  i  cut  a  large  cabbage  lettuce  in  flices,  fiy  it  after 
the  other,  put  it  in  the  tureen  with  the  fried  bread  and 
bacon :  have  ready  bbiled,  as  for  eating,  a  pint  of  young 
peas,  and  put  them  in  the  ibup>  with  a  litde  chopped 
mint,  if  you  like  it,  and  pour  it  into  your  tureen. 

Gre^n  Pias  Sout»,  for  Fqft^da^s.  In  {helling  your  peas^ 
feparate  the  old  ones  from  the  youhg,  and  boil  the  old 
ones  foft  enough  to  ftrain  through  a  cullender ;  then  put 
the  liquor,  and  what  you  ftrained  through,  to  the  young 
peas,  which  muft  be  whole,  and  fome  whole  pepper, 
mint,  and  a  little  onion  fhred  {hnall ;  put  thetn  in  a 
large  faucepan,  with  near  a  pound  of  butter ;  as  they 
boil  upi  fhake  irt  fomc  flour ;  then  put  in  a  French  roll 
fried  in  butter  to  the  foup ;  you  muft  feafon  it  to  your 
tdfte  with  fait  and  herbs.  When  you  have  done  fo,  add 
the:  yoUng  peas  to  it,  which  muft  be  half  boiled  firft* 
You  iftay  leave  out  the  floUri  if  you  think  proper,  and 
inftead  of  it,  put  in  a  little  fpina(ih  and  cabbage  lettuce^ 
cut  frtiall,  which  muft  be  fried  in  butter,  and  well  mixed 
with  the  broth. 

Sbup  a-k'Mufquetaire.  Take  a  pint  of"  green  peas^ 
and  &  handftil  of  forrel  \  boil  in  your  broth  and  gravy 
on  a  flow  fire,  a  neck  of  inUtton ;  which,  when  done> 
glaze  it  as  a  fricandeau,  and  ferve  it  altogether^ 

A  common  Peas  Soup*  Take  a  quart  of  Iplk  peas, 
put  to  them  a  gallon  of  foft  water,  a  little  lean  bacon, 
or  roaft  beef  bones  j  wafh  one  head  of  celery,  cut  it, 
arid  put  it  in  with  a  turnips  boil  it  till  reduced  to  two 
quarts,  then  work  it  through  a  cullender^  with  &  wooden 

Vol.  IL  Fff  fpooni 


w. 


4C1  SOUPS. 

ipoon ;  mix  a  little  flour  and  water>  and  boil  it  well  in 
the  foup,  and  flice  in  another  head  of  celery,  kyan  pep- 
per, and  fait  to  your  tafte ;  cut  a  flice  of  bread  in  fmall 
dice,  fry  them  a  light  brown,  and  put  them  in  your  difli ; 
then  pour  the  foup  over  it. 

Another  way.  Take  about  four  pounds  of  lean  beefi 
cut  it  in  fmall  pieces,  about  a  pound  of  lean  bacon,  or 
pickled  pork,  fet  it  on  the  fire  with  two  gallons  of  water, 
let  it  boil,  and  flcim  it  well ;  then  put  in  flx  onions,  two 
turnips,  one  carrot,  and  four  heads  of  celery  cut  fmall, 
and  put  in  a  quart  of  Iplit  peas  j  boil  it  gendy  for  three 
hours,  then  fl:rain  them  through  a  fieve,  and  rub  the 
peas  well  through  j  then  put  your  foup  in  a  clean  pot, 
and  put  in  fome  dried  mint  rubbed  very  fine  to  powder, 
cut  the  white  of  four  heads  of  celery  and  two  txirnips, 
in  dice,  and  boil  them  in  a  quart  of  water  fifteen  minutes ; 
then  fl:rain  them  off,  and  put  them  in  your  foup ;  take 
about  21  dozen  of  fmall  rafliers  of  bacon  fried,  and  put 
them  into  your  foup ;  feafon  with  pepper  and  fait  to 
your  liking,  boil  it  up  for  fifteen  minutes ;  then  put  it 
in  your  tureen  with  dice  of  bread  fried  criip. 

Another  way.  When  you  boil  a  piece  of  beef,  or 
a  leg  of  pork,  favc  the  liquor ;  when  it  is  cold  take  off 
the  £at-  The  next  day  boil  a  leg  of  mutton,  favc  the 
liquor,  and  when  it  is  cold,  take  off  the  fat,  and  let  it 
on  the  fire  with  two  quarts  of  peas.  Let  them  boil  till 
they  are  tender,  then  put  in  the  pork  or  beef  liquor, 
with  the  ingredients  as  above,  and  let  it  boil  till  it  is  as 
thick  as  you  would  have  it,  allowing  for  the  boiling 
again  i  then  flirain  it  off,  and  add  the  ingredients  as 
above.  You  may  make  your  foup  of  veal  or  mutton 
gravy  if  you  pleafe,  according  to  your  fancy. 

Z  Feat 


% 


SOUPS.  403 

P^as  Soup  without  Meat.  A  Britlfh  herring,  with  a 
pint  of  peas,  celery,  &c.  make  good  peas  foup. 

fFhite  Peas  Soup.  Put  four  or  five  pounds  of  lean 
beef  into  fix  quarts  of  water,  with  a  little  fait,  and  as 
loon  as  it  boils,  take  ofl^the  fcum.  Put  in  three  quarts 
of  old  green  peas,  two  heads  of  celery,  a  little  thyme, 
three  onicms,  and  two  carrots.  Boil  them  till  the  meat 
is  quite  tender,  then  ftrain  it  through  a  hair  fieve,  and 
rub  the  pulp  of  the  peas  through  the  fieve.  Split  the 
blanched  part  of  three  gofs  lettuces  into  four  quarters, 
and  cut  them  about  an  inch  long,  with  a  little  mint  cu; 
fmall  i   then  put  half  a  pound  of  butter  in  a  ftewpan 

■ 

large  enough  to  hold  your  foup,  and  put  the  lettuce  and 
mint  into  the  butter,  with  a  leek  fliced  -very  thin,  and  a 
pint  of  green  peas.  Stew  them  a  quarter  of  an  hour, 
and  fliake  them  frequently  ;  then  put  in  a  litde  of  the 
foup,  and  ftew  them  a  quarter  of  an  hour  longer.  Then 
put  in  your  foup  as  much  thick  cream  as  will  make  it 
white,  and  keep  ftirring  it  till  it  boils.  Fry  a  French 
roll  a  litde  crifp  in  butter,  put  it  at  the  bottom  of  your 
tureen,  and  pour  it  over  your  foup.  ^ 

Partridge  Soup.  Skin  two  old  partridges,  and  cut 
riiem  into  fmall  pieces,  with  three  flices  of  ham,  two  or 
three  onions  fliced  and  fome  celery  5  fry  diem  in  butter 
till  they  are  as  brown  as  they  can  be  made  without  bur- 
ning ;  then  put  them  into  three  quarts  of  water  with  a^ 
few  pepper  corns.  Boil  it  flowly  till  a  little  more  than 
a  pint  is  confumed,  then  ftrain  it,  put  in  fome  ftewed 
celery  and  fried  bread. 

Soup  a-la-Chartre.  Take  three  or  four  fweetbreads 
well  cleaned  in  warm  water,  and  fcalded  in  boiling  5  put 
thenx  in  your  pot  with  fcalded  cock's^combs,  a  faggot 

Fff2  of 


c 


404  SOUPS. 

of  parflcy,  green  (ballots^  three  cloves,  and  a  few  mu(h« 
rooms :  ftew  all  with  good  broth  on  a  flow  fire ;  have 
crufts  of  rolls  well  ibaked  in  broth  in  the  foup  diih,  then 
put  upon  diis  the  fweetbreads,  mufliroomsj  and  cock's- 

combs, 

Portable  Sow  for  ^ravetters.  Cut  ipto  fmall  pieces 
three  large  legs  of  veal,  one  of  beef^  and  the  lean  part 
of  half  a  ham.  Put  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  butter  at 
the  bottom  of  a  large  cauldron,  then  lay  in  the  meat 
and  bones,  with  four  ounces  of  s^nchovies,  and  two 
ounces  of  mace.  Cut  off  the  green  leaves  of  five  or  fix 
heads  of  celery,  walh  the  heads  quite  clean,  cut  them 
fmall,  put  them  in  with  three  large  carrots  cut  thin, 
cover  the  cauldron  clofe,  and  fet  it  over  a  nH)dcratc  fire^ 
When  you  find  the  gravy  begins  to  draw,  keep  taking 
it  up  till  yQu  have  got  it  all  out,  then  put  water  in  to 
cover  the  mea? ;  fet  it  on  the  fire  again,  and  let  it  boil 
flowly  for  four  hours,  then  ftrain  it  through  a  hair  ficvc 
into  a  clean  pan,  and  let  it  boil  three  parts  away  -,  then 
ftrain  the  gravy  that  you  drew  from  the  meat,  into  the 
pan,  let  it  boil  gently  (obferving  to  fkim  the  fat  off  a$ 
it  rifes)  till  it  looks  thick  like  glue.  You  muft  take 
great  care,  when  it  is  near  enough,  that  it  doe$  not  burn  j 
put  b  kyan  pepper  tp  your  tafte,  then  pour  it  on  flat 
earthen  difhes  ^  qwrter  of  an  inch  thick,  ^nd  let  it  ftand 
till  the  next  d^y,  s^nd  cut  it  put  with  round  tins  a  litde 
larger  than  a  crown  piece ;  lay  the  cakes  on  dishes,  and 
fet  them  in  the  fi\n  to  dry,  Thi§  foyp  will  anfwer  beft 
to  be  nriade  in  frofty  weather,  When  the  cakes  are  dry, 
put  them  in  a  tin  boxj^  with  writing  paper  between  every 
^ake,  and  Iceep  them  i^i  a  dry  place.  This  is  a  very 
ufefyl  foup  tQ  fee  kept  \\\  gcfttlenie(i*s  families,  for  by 

pouring 


SOUPS.  4J05 

pouring  a  pint  of  boiling  water  on  one  cake,  and  a  little 
falt^  it  will  nrtake  a  good  bafon  of  broth.  A  little'boiU 
ing  water  poured  on  it  will  make  gravy  for  a  turkey  or 
fowls.    The  longer  it  is  kept  the  better. 

It  will  be  neceffary  to  keep  turning  the  cakes  as  they 

dry. 

Soup  Maign.  Put  half  a  pound  of  butter  into  % 
deep  ftewpan,  (hake  it  about,  and  let  it  ftand  till  it  has 
done  making  a  noifei  then  have  ready  fix  middling 
onions  peeled  and  cut  fmall,  throw  them  inj  and  fhake 
them  (about.  Take  a  bunch  of  celery,  clean  walhed 
and  picked,  cut  it  in  pieces  half  as  long  as  your  fingef, 
a  large  handful  of  fpinach  clean  wafhed  and  picked,  i 
good  lettuce  clean  wafhed  (if  you  have  it)  and  cut  fmaU^ 
a  little  bundh  of  parfley  chopped  fme;  fhake  all  thii 
well  together  in  the  pan  for  a  quarter  of  an  hour,  then 
Ihake  in  a  little  flonr ;  fUr  all  together,  and  pour  into  xht 
ftewpan  two  quarts  of  boiling  water.  Take  a  handdil 
of  dry  hard  crufl,  throw  in  a  tea-fpoonful  of  beatert 
pepper,  three  blades  of  mace  beat  fine  j  ftir  aU  together,* 
and  let  it  boil  ibftly  for  half  an  hour  i  then  take  it  ofF  the' 
fire,  and  beat  up  the  yolks  of  two  eggs,  and  flir  in,  and 
one  ipoonful  of  vinegar ;  pour  it  into  the  fbup  difh,  and 
fend  it  to  table.  If  you  have  any  green  peas,  boil  half 
a  pint  in  the  ibup  for  change. 

Another  wa)f.  Take  a  quart  of  green  Moratta  peas^ 
three  quarts  of  foft  water,  four  onions  fliced,  floured^i 
and  fried  in  frefh  butter,  the  coarfe  flalks  of  celery,  s( 
carrot,  a  turnip,  and  a  parfnip }  and  feafbn  the  whole 
with  pepper  and  mace  to  your  tafte.  Stew  all  thefe 
very  gendy  together  till  the  pulp  will  force  through  a' 
fi^c,    H^9  ready  a  handfpl  ^  beet-leaf  wd  toot^  fomf 

celery 


'4fs£  s  o  u  p  s:  ^ 

celery  and  fpinach,  which  mull  be  blanched  and  ftewed 
tender  in  the  drained  liquor.  Have  ready  the  third 
part  of  fpinach  juice,  which  muft  be  ftirred  in  with  cau- 
tion>  when  the  foup  is  ready  to  be  ferved  up,  and  not 
fufiered  tp  boil  after  it  is  put  in,  as  that  will  curdle  it. 
You  may  add  a  cruft  of  bread,  fome  tops  of  afparagus, 
and  artichoke  bottoms. 

^eerCs  Rice  Soup  Maigre.  Take  half  a  pound  of 
rice,  well  walhed.in  warm  water,  boil  it  tender  in  broth 
and  butter  \  make  a  gravy  without  colouring,  with  carp,, 
onions,  carrots,  and  parfnips.  When  it  is  ready  to  catch, 
add.broth,  and  boil  it  fome  time,  then  fift  it ;  pound  a 
dozen  fwcet  almonds,  with  fix  hard  yolks  of  eggs,  a  few 
bits  of  boiled  fifli,  crumbs  of  bread  (baked  in  milk  or 
cream;  mix  all  together  with  the  gravy  and  fift  it. 
Warm  it  without  boiling,  and  ferve  this  cuUis  upon  the 
rice. 

Rice  S0rp.  Put  a  pound  of  ricfc  and  a  little  cinna- 
mon to  two  quarts  of  water  j  and  cover  it  clofc,  and  let 
it  fimmcr  very  foftly  till  the  rice  is  quite  tender.  Take 
out  the  cinnamon,  then  fweeten  it  to  your  palate  s  grate 
half  a  nutmeg,  and  let  it  ftand  till  it  is  cold ;  then  beat 
up  the  yolks  of  three  eggs  with  half  a  pint  of  white  wine. 
Mix  them  very  well,  and  ftir  them,  into  the  rice,  {^t 
them  on  a  flow  fire,  and  keep  ftirring  all  the  time  for 
fear  of  curdling.  When  it  is  of  a  good  thicknefs,  and 
boils,  take  it  up.  Keep  ftirring  it  till  you  put  it  into 
your  dilh. 

Oyfter  Soup,  Take  a  proper  quantity  of  fifli  ftock  ; 
then  take  two  quarts  of  oyfters  without  the  beards; 
beat  the  hard  part  in  a  mortar,  with  the  yolks  of  t<^n 
bard  eggs  i  put  them  to  the  fifli  ftock,  fet  it  over  the 

firci 


SOUPS.  407 

fire ;  feafon  it  with  pepper,  felt,  and  grated  nutmeg. 
When  it  boils,  put  in  the  eggs^  let  it  boil  till  it  is  of  a 
good  thickncfs,  and  like  a  fine  cream. 

Another  way.     Make  your  ftock  of  any  fort  of  filh 
the  place  affords ;  let  there  be  about  two  quarts ;  take  . 
a  pint  of  oyfters,  beard  them,  put  diem  into  a  faucc-  ^ 
pan,  ftrain  the  liquor,  let  them  ftew  two  or  three  mi- 
nutes in  their  own  liquor  i  then  take  the  hard  parts  of 
the  oyfters,  and  beat  them  in  a  mortar  with  the  yolks 
of  four  hard  eggs  j  mix  them  with  fome  of  the  ibup  5 
put  them  with  the  other  part  of  the  Oyfters  and  liquor  * 
into  a  iaucepan,  a  little  nutmeg,  pepper,  and  fait ;  fiir  . 
them  well  together,  and  let  it  boil  a  quarter  of  an  Jiour* 
Difh  it  up,  and  fend  it  to  table. 

Onion  Soup.  Brown  half  a  pound  of  butter  with  a  » 
little  flour  J  take  care  it  does  not  burn.  When  it  has 
done  hifllng,  i1  ice  a  do:^n  of  large*  white  oniolis,  fry 
them  very  gently  till  they  are.  teJlkdef  i  then  pour  to 
them,  by  degrees,  twp  quarts  of  bpiling  water,  ibaking  . 
the  pan  well  round  as  it  is  pQuj-^^d  in ;  add  alio  a  cruft 
of  bread.  Let  it  boil  gently  fpr .  half  an  hour ;  feafon 
it  with  pepper  and  fait.  Take  the  top  of  a  French  roll 
and  dry  it  at  the  fire  j  put  it  into  a  faucepan,  with  fomc 
x)f  the  foup  to  foak  it;  then  put  it  into  the  tureen. 
Let  the  foup  boil  fome  time  after  the  onions  are  tender, 
as  it  gives  the  foup  a  great  richnefs  5  ftrain  it  oft>  and 
pour  it  upon  the  French  roll. 

Eel  Soup.  Take  a  pound  of  eels,  which  will  make 
a  pint  of  good  foup,  or  any  greater  quantity  of  eels,  in 
proportion  to  the  quantity  of  foup  you  intend  to  make. 
To  every  pound  of  eels,  put  a  quart  of  water,  a  cruft 
pf  breads  two  or  three  blades  of  mace,  a  little  whole 

pep- 


40t  SOUPS. 

pepper^  an  onion^  and  a  bundle  of  fweet  herbs.  Co« 
vcr  them  clofe,  and  let  them  boil  till  half  the  liquor  is 
wafted;  then  ftrain  ir^  and  toaft  Ibme  bread;  cut  it 
fmall,  lay  the  bread  into  your  di(h>  and  pour  in  the 
Ibup.  If  you  have  a  ftew-hole,  fet  the  difli  oVer  it  for 
a  minute,  and  fend  it  to  cable.  If  you  find  your  jfbup 
not  rich  enough,  you  may  let  it  boil  till  it  is  as  ditck 
as  you  would  have  it.  Yoti  may  add  a  piece  of  carrot 
to  brown  it. 

'.Peas  Soup.  Put  a  quart  of  fplit  peas  ;nto  a  gallon 
of  water  to  boil.  When  they  are  quite  foft,  put  in  half 
a  red  herring,  or  two  anchovies,  a  good  deal  of  whole 
pepper,  black  and  white,  two  or  three  blades  of  mace, 
four  or  five  cloves,  a  bundle  of  fweet  herbs,  a  large 
onion,  the  green  tops  of  a  bunch  of  celery,  and  a  good 
bundle  of  dried  mint ;  cover  them  doie,  and  let  them 
boil  fofcly  till  there  is  about  two  quarts :  then  ftrain  it 
off,  and  have  ready  die  white  part  of  the  celery  walhed 
clean,  and  cut  fmall,  and  ftcwed  tender  in  a  quart  of 
water,  fome  fpinach  picked  and  wafhed  clean,  put  to 
the  celery ;  let  them  ftew  till  the  water  is  quite  wafted, 
and  put  it  to  your  foup. 

Take  out  the  cnimb  of  a  French  roll,  fiy  the  cruft 
brown  in  a  little  frelh  butter ;  take  fome  ipinach,  ftew 
it  in  a  little  butter  after  it  is  boiled,  and  fill  the  roll ; 
take  the  crumb,  cut  it  in  pieces,  beat  it  in  a  mortar 
with  a  raw  egg,  a  little  fpinach,  and  a  little  forrel,  a 
little  beaten  mace,  a  little  nutmeg,  and  an  .anchovy ; 
then  mix  it  up  with  your  hand,  and  roll  them  into  balls 
with  a  litde  Hour,  and  cut  fome  bread  into  dice,  and 
fry  them  crifp;  pour  your  foup  into  your  difti,  put  in 
the  b^lA  and  bread,  and  the  roll  in  the  middle.    Gar* 

« 

,   */  nifli 


S    O    U    P    SC  409 

nilh  your  difh  with  Ipinach.    If  it  wants  falCi  you  iriuft 
ieafon  it  to  your  palate  *,  rub  in  fome  dried  mint. 

Barley  Soup.     To  a  gallon  of  water,   put  half  3 

pound  of  barley,  a  blade  or  two  of  mace,  a  large  cruft 

-of  bread,  and  a  little  lemon-peel.    Lee  it  boil  till  it 

comes  to  two  quarts';  then  add  half  a  pint  of  white 

wine,  and  fweeten  to  your  palate. 

Scate  Soup*  Having  fkinncd  and  wafhed  two  pounds 
of  fcate,  boil  it  in  fix  quarts  of  water.  When  it  is 
boiled,  t^ke  the  meat  from  the  bones ;  take  two  pounds 
of  flounders^  wafh  them  clean,  put  them  into  the  waiier 
the  fcate  was  boiled  in,  with  fome  lemon-peel,  a  bunch 
of  fwcet  herbs,  a  few  blades  of  mace,  fome  horfc-ra* 
difh,  the  cruft  of  a  penny  loaf,  a  litde  parfley,  and  the 
bones  of  the  fcate ;  cover  it  very  clofe,  and  let  it  fim- 
mcr  till  it  is  reduced  to  two  quarts ;  then  ftrain  it  off,  and 
put  to  it  an  ounce  of  vermicelli  5  fet  it  on  the  fire,  and 
let  it  boil  very  fbftly.  Take  one  of  the  hollow  roll^ 
which  arc  made  for  oyflers,  and  fry  it  in  butter.  Take 
the  meat  of  the  fcate,  pull  it  into  little  flices,  put  it 
into  a  faucepan  with  two  or  three  fpoonfuls  of  the  foup^ 
fhake  into  it  a  little  flour  and  a  piece  of  butter,  fome 
pepper  and  fait ;  fhake  them  together  in  a  faucepan  till 
it  is  thick,  then  fill  the  roll  with  it ;  pour  the  fbup  into 
the  tureen,  put  the  roll  into  it,  and  fend  it  to  table. 

Egg  Soup.  Beat  the  yolks  of  two  eggs  in  a  difh, 
with  a  piece  of  butter  as  big  as  a  hen's  egg  $  take  a  tea, 
kettle  of  boiling  water  in  one  hand,  and  a  i^oon  in  the 
other ;  pour  in  about  a  quart  by  degrees,  then  keep  ftii'- 
ring  it  well  all  die  rime,  till  the  eggs  are  well  mixed^ 
and  die  butter  melted  i  then  pour  it  into  a  faucepan, 
and  keep  ftirring  it  all  die  time  rill  it  begi  is  to  fimmer. 

VouII;  Ggg  Take 


i 


/ 


4t0  SOUPS. 

Take  it  off  the  fire,  and  pour  it  between  two  vcflcb, 
out  of  one  into  another  till  it  is  quite  fmooth^  and  has  a 
great  froth;  fct  it  on  the  fire  again^  keep  ftirring  it 
till  it  is  quite  hot,  then  pour  it  into  your  foup-difh^  and 
fend  it  hot  to  the  table. 

Milk  Soup.  Put  into  two  quarts  of  milk  two  (licks 
of  cinnamon,  two  bay  leaves,  a  very  little  baiket  fait, 
and  a  very  little  fugar  -,  then  blanch  half  a  pound  of 
fweet  almonds  while  the  milk  is  heating ;  beat  them  up 
CO  a  pafte  in  a  marble  mortar,  mix  with  them,  by  de- 
grees, fome  milk.  While  they  are  beatii^,  grate  the 
peel  of  a  lemon  with  the  almonds  and  a  little  of  the 
juice ;  then  ftrain  it  through  a-  coarfe  (ieve,  and  mix  it 
with  the  milk  that  is  heating  in  the  ftewpan,  and  let  it 
boil  up. 

Cut  fome  dices  of  French  bread,  and  dry  them  before 
the  fire ;  foak  them  a  little  in  the  milk,  lay  them  at  the 
bottom  of  the  tureeni  and  then  pour  in  the  foup. 

Milk  Soup,  the  Dutch  way.  Boil  a  quart  of  miJk 
with  cinnamon  and  moift  fugar;  put  fippets  into  the 
difli,  pour  the  milk  over  it,  and  fet  it  over  a  charcoal 
fire  to  fimmer  till  the  bread  is  foft.  Take  the  yolks  of 
two  eggs,  beat  them  up,  and  mix  it  with  a  little  of  the 
milk,  and  throw  it  in.  Mix  it  all  together,  and  fend 
it  up  to  table. 

Turnip  Soup,  Italian  fa/hion.  Cut  turnips  in  what 
fhape  you  pleafe,  colour  them  with  butter  in  a  ftewpan, 
and  two  fpoonfuls  of  oil ;  add  dices  of  roots,  &c.  and 
boil  them  in  good  fifh  gravy ;  give  it  a  confiftcncc  with 
any  fort  of  pottage. 


SPRATS. 


SPRATS.     ' 

To  bake  Sprats.  Rub  them  with  fait  and  pepper,  ' 
and  to  every  pint  of  vinegar  put  half  the  quantity  of 
red  wine,  diifolving .  therein  a  little  cochineal;  lay  the 
iprats  in  a  deep  earthen  diih,  pour  in  as  much  vinegar, 
&c.  as  will  cover  them  -,  tie  a  paper  over  them,  and  fet 
them  in  an  oven  all  night.  They  will  eat  well,  and 
keep  for  fome  time. 

To  pickle  Spkats  for  Jftcbovies.  Take  an  anchovy 
barrel  or  a  deep  glazed  pot,  put  a  few  bay  leaves  at  th^ 
bottom,  fome  bay  fait,  faltpetre  mixed  together,  then  a 
layer  of  fprats  crouded  clofe,  then  bay  leaves  and  the 
fame  lalt  and  fprats,  and  ib  till  your  pot  or  barrel  be 
full,  then  put  in  the  head  of  your  barrel  clofe,  once  a 
week  turn  the  other  end  upwards.  In  three  months 
they  will  be  fit  to  eat  raw  as  anchovies. 


STEAK  S.— See  Beef,  Mutton,  &c^ 


S    T    E    W- 

See  the  various  articles  drcfled  in  this  manner. 


S    T    O    M    A    C    a 

Pains  of  the  Stomach  may  proceed  from  various 
Wufesi  as  i{idigeftion ;  wind;  the  acrimony  of  the  bile  ; 

G  g  g  2  from 


412  STOMACH. 

• 

from  worms ;  the  flopping  of  cuftomary  evacuations  ; 
a  cranflation  of  gouty  matter  to  the  ftomach^  the  bow- 
els>  &c. 

Women  in  the  decline  of  life  are  very  liable  to  pains 
of  the  ftomach  and  boweb^  efpecially  (uch  as  are  af- 
fli£ted  with  hyfteric  complaint*  .  It  is  likewife  very 
common  to  hypochondriac  men  of  a  fedentary  and 
luxurious  life  5  ill  fuch  perfons  it  often  proves  fo  ex- 
treme as  to  baffle  all  the  powers  of  medicine. 

When  the  pain  of  the  ftomach  is  moft  violent  after 
eating,  there  is  reafon  to  fulpcfl:  that  it  proceeds  from 
Ibme  fault  either  in  the  digeftion  or  the  food ;  in  this 
cafe  the  patient  ought  to  change  his  dietj  till  he  finds 
what  kind  of  food  agrees  beft  with  his  ftomach,  and 
ihould  continue  chiefly  to  ufe  it.  If  a  change  of  diet 
does  not  remove  the  complaint,  the  patient  may  take  a 
gentle  vomit,  and  afterwards  a  dofe  or  two  of  rhubarb. 
He  ought  likewife  to  take  an  infiifion  of  camomile 
flowers,  or  Ibme  other  ftomachic  bitter,  either  in  wine 
or  water. 

When  a  pain  of  the  ftomach  proceeds  from  flatu- 
lency, the  patient  is  conftantly  belching  up  wind,  and 
feels  an  uneafy  diftenfion  of  the  ftomach  after  meals.  In 
general,  the  patient  ought  to  avoid  all  windy  diet,  and. 
every  thing  that  fours  on  the  ftomach,  as  greens,  roots, 
&c.  This  rule,  however,  admits  of  fome  exceptions. 
There  are  many  inftances  of  pcrfbns  very  much  trou- 
bled with  wind,  who  received  great  benefit  from  eating 
parched  peafe,.  though  that  grain  is  generally  fuppofed 
to  be  of  a  windy  nature.  Thefe  are  prepared  by  fteep- 
ing  or  foaking  peafe  in  water,  and  aiterwards  drying 

dieo^ 


STOMACH.  4tj 

tKem  in  a  pot  or  kiln  till  they  become  quite  hard. 
They  may  be  ufcd  at  pieafure. 

Wheri  pain  of  the  ftomach  proceeds  from  a  tranfla* 
tion  of  gouty  matter,  warm  cordials  are  neceflary,  as 
generous  wines,  French  brandy,  &c.  It  is  impoflible 
to  afcertain  the  quantities  neceflary  upon  thefe  occafions* 
This  muft  be  left  to  the  feelings  and  direftion  of  the 
patient ;  the  fafer  way  however  is,  not  to  go  too  far. 
When  there  is  an  inclination  to  vomit,  it  may  be  pro- 
moted by  drinking  an  infliffon  of  camomile  flowers,  or 
€arduus  benediSlus. 

If  a  pain  of  the  ftomach  proceeds  from  the  ftoppage 
of  cuftomary  evacuations,  bleeding  will  be  neceflary, 
clpecially  in  fanguine  and  very  full  habits.  It  will 
likewife  be  of  ufe  to  keep  the  body  gently  open  by 
mild  purgatives;  as  rhubarb  or  fenna,  &c.  WhcR 
this  difeafe  affefts  women  in  the  decline  of  life,  after 
the  ftopping  of  the  menfes,  making  an  iflfue  in  the  leg 
or  arm  will  be  of  peculiar  fervice. 

When  the  difeafe  is  occafloned  by  worms,  they  muft 
be  deftroyed  or  expelled  by  fuch  means  as  are  recom- 
mended under  that  head. 

When  the  ftomach  is  greatly  relaxed,  and  die  digef- 
tion  bad,  which  often  occaflons  flatulencies,  the  acid 
elixir  of  vitriol  will  be  of  Angular  fervice.  Fifteen  or 
twenty  drops  of  it  may  be  taken  in  a  glals  of  wine  or 
water  twice  or  thrice  a  day. 


&TUR- 


[    4U    1 

STURGEON. 

To  boil  Sturgeon.  Clean  your  fturgeon,  and  pre- 
pare as  much  liquor  as  will  jufi  boil  It.  To  two  quarts 
of  water  put  a  pint  of  vineg^^  a  fticl^  of  horfe-radi/h^ 
two  or  three  bits  of  Icmon^ecl,  fome  whole  pepper^  a 
bay  leaf,  and  a  fmall  handful  of  fait.  Boil  your  fifh  in 
thb,  and  ferve  it  in  the  following  fauce : — ^Mclt  a  pound 
of  butter,  diflblve  an  anchovy  in  it,  put  in  a  blade  or 
two  of  mace,  bruife  the  body  of  a  crab  in  the  butter,  a 
few  fhrimps  or  craw-fifti,  a  little  catchup,  a  litde  lemon 
juice  i  give  it  a  boil,  drain  your  fifh  well,  and  lay  it  in 
your  difh.  Garnifh  with  fried  oyflers,  fliced  lemon» 
and  fcraped  horfe-radiih ;  pour  your  fauce  into  boats  or 
bafons*     So  you  may  fry  it,  ragoo  it,  or  bake  it. 

Another  way.  Stew  the  fhirgeon  in  as  much  liquid  / 
as  will  flew  it)  being  half  fifh-broth  or  water,  and  half 
white  wine,  with  a  little  vinegar,  fliced  roots,  onions, 
fweet  herbs,  whole  pepper,  and  fait;  when  done„ 
ferve  upon  a  napkin.  Garnifh  with  green  parfley,  and 
ferve  with  what  fauces  you  pleafe  in  fauce  boats,  fuch 
as  capers,  anchovies,  &c. 

To  drefs  Sturgeon  in  CoUops.  Lard  and  flour  them  a 
little,  and  bring  them  to  a  colour  with  lard ;  then  boil 
them  in  a  faucepan  with  good  gravy,  fine  herbs,  flices 
of  lemon,  truffles,  muflirooms,  veal  fweetbreads,  and 
a  well-feafoned  cullis ;  drain  the  fat  very  well  from  them 
and  Iprinkle  them  with  a  little  lemon-juice,  and  ferve 
it  up  to  table. 

Sturgeon  Mayence  fajhioriy  or  d-la-Mayence.  Take 
a  piece  of  flurgeon,  of  what  fize  you  think  proper, 

and 


SUPPERS.  415. 

smd  lard  it  with  Weftphalia  ham,  fat  and  lean  cut  to« 
gethcr.  ^  Wrap  it  in  paper  and  roaft  it^  bailing  it  with 
butter.  Make  a  faucc  as  follows : — Put  in  a  ftewpan  a 
few  flices  of  hann  and  veal,  diced  carrots,  onions,  part- 
ley  roots,  Ihallots,  and  three  cloves.  Soak  it  on  the 
fire  till  it  begins  to  catch  at  bottom,  then  add  a  litde 
cullis,  half  a  pint  of  white  wine,  fome  whole  pepper, 
and  a  little  fait.  Reduce  it  to  a  proper  confiftence, 
then  (kim  and  ftr^  it  5  when  done,  add  the  juice  ot 
jialf  A  ienx>n,  and  lerve  if  upon  the  fturgeon. 


r 

"S  U  G  A  R.— ^ee  Candvikg,  &c. 


SUPPERS. 

Light  Suppers  of  four  Dijhes. 

Houfe  lamb  ftcaks,  ^•la-fricaffee,  wbtCe« 
Collared  eel.  I^ckles. 

Chicken  roafled. 

Whitings  broiled. 
Tongue  fliccd.  Bifcuits. 

CalPs  heart. 


#        Roafted  chicken. 


Potted  beef.  Cheefecakca, 

Saufagej,  with  eggs  poached. 

»■»■»»  i.^.^^^ 

Minced  veal. 
Pit  of  butter  in  a  glafs.  RadifliCH* 

Poached  eggs  on  a  toaft. 

Maintenons*- 
SUced  ham.  TuU 

Rabbit  roafied. 

Haibcd 


41^        suppers: 


HafliednnittoD. 
Anchovy  and  butter.  Fkklcf* 

Scollopped  or  roafted  potatoes. 

Veal  cutlet. 
Tart#  Radiffaes  and  biitfetf 

Afparagus.  in  the  mkidie. 


BcHled  chicken. 
Cold  beef  or  mutton  iliced.  Picldcs. 

Scollopped  oyfters. 

Boiled  tripe. 
Bdogma  (ku&ge  fficed.  Fat  of  butter  in  a  j^aft«. 

Hafhedhaie. 


»■»  »  ».i  4  4  <  « 


Gudgeons  fried. 
BiicuitSf  Rafped  beef,  and  a  pat  of 

butter  in  tttc  middle. 
I>uck  roafted. 

Light  Suppers  of  five  Dijhes. 
Scotch  collc^i. 

jotted  pigeon*  Sallad.  Lobfier. 

Feafe. 

Eels  broiled  or  boiled. 
Butter  fpOD.  Tart.  Radifh^. 

Sweetbread  roafted. 

>  »  »  »     <  <i4  < 

Cold  veal  hafhed. 
Anchovies  and  butter.        Plain  fritters.  Pickles. 

Teal  roafted. 


Pigeons  roafted. 
prawns.  Tart.  Cold  mutton  fiiced, 

Afparagus. 

Poached  eggs  and  (pinach  ftewed. 
Alices  of  beef.  Mince  pies.  Baked  fprats. 

Chicken  roafted. 

Boiled  chickens. 
Goofebeny  Parflcy  and  butter 

f^e*  Cream.  and  melted  butter. 

Fricaffee  of  ox  palatei. 

Duck 


SYLLABUBS* 

Duck  roaftccL 


Sliced  tongue; 


Tart. 
Peafe. 


1 1 1  I    n  t  $* 

Boiled  chicken^  lemon  £iuce« 
Ham  iliced.  Butter  in  a  glafi. 

Lambda  tiy. 


f 
Collared  betf.         Rafpbeny  fritters* 


Spitchcock  eel. 
ipb 
Veat  cutlet. 


>■»  »»"»-4'»< 

Giblets  ftewed* 
Collared  veal  fliced»  Tart. 

Roafled  pigeons* 

» » » I  <  1 1 » 

Buttered  lobfler* 
Potted  Rafpberry 

beef{  creami 

CalPs  heart. 


4»7 


Crayfifh. 


Radiihen 


Kckles« 


Crab* 


Collared  pig's 
head. 


SWEET-BREADS.— Sec  VEAt, 


*«■ 


>i    n-i 


SYLLABUBS. 

A  whipt  Syllabub.  Rub  a  lump  of  fugar  on  the 
outfide  of  a  lemon,  put  it  into  a  pint  of  thin  cream, 
and  (weeten  it  to  yout  tafte  y  then  put  in  the  juice  of 
a  lemon,  and  a  glafs  of  Madeira  wine  or  French  brandy; 
tnill  it  to  a  froth  with  a  chocolate  mill,  and  take  it  oflF 
as  it  rifes,  and  lay  it  into  a  hair  fieve.  Then  fill  onq 
half  of  your  poflet-glalTes  a  litde  more  than  half  full 
with  white  wine,  and  the  other  half  of  your  glades  a 
little  more  half  full  with  red  wine  i  then  lay  on  your 

Vol.  II.  Hhh  froth 


418         SYLLABUBS* 

froth  as  high  as  you  can,  but  take  care  that  it  be  well 
drained  on  your  fieve,  otherwife  it  will  mix  with  your 
wine,  and  your  fyllabub  will  be  fpoiled. 

Another  wa>/.  Take  a  quart  of  thick  cream,  -and 
half  a  pint  of  fack,  the  juice  of  two  Seville  oranges  or 
lemons  j  grate  in  the  peel  of  two  lemons,  half  a  pound 
of  double-refined  fugar,  pour  it  into  a  broad  earthen 
pan,  and  whiflc  it  well.  '  But  firft  fweeten  fome  red  wine 
or  fack,  and  fill  your  glaffes  as  fiiU  as  you  chufe ;  then, 
as  the  froth  rifes,  take  it  olF  with  a  fpoon,  and  lay  it  on 
a  fieve  to  drain ;  then  lay  it  carefully  into  your  glafTcs, 
till  they  are  as  full  as  they  will  hold.  Do  not  make 
thefe  loQg  before  you  ufe  them.  Many  ufe  cyder 
fweetencd,  or  any  wine  they  pleafe,  or  lemon  or  orange 
whey  made  thus:  Squeeze  the  juice  of  a  lemon  or 
orange  into  a  quarter  of  a  pint  of  milk ;  when  the  curd 
is  hard,  pour  the  whey  clear  ofi^,  and  fweeten  it  to  your 
palate.  You  may  colour  fome  with  the  juice  of  Ipinach, 
fome  with  faffron,  and  fome  with  cochineel,  juft  as  you 
fancy. 

Another  n^y.  Take  a  pint  of  cream,  the  whites  of 
twa  eggs,  a  pint  of  white  wine,  and  the  juice  and  rind 
of  a  lemon  5  grate  the  rind  into  the  wine,  and  then  put 
in  the  cream ;  fweeten  them,  and  whifk  them  up  with  a 
clean  whilk. 

A  Lemon  Syllabub.  Take  a  pint  of  cream,  a  pint 
of  white  wine,  the  rinds  of  two  lemons  grated,  and 
the  juice;  fugar  it  to  the  tafle;  let  it  ftandfome  time; 
mill  or  whip  it  j  hy  the  froth  on  a  fieve ;  put  the  re- 
mainder into  glaflesj  lay  on  the  froth;  make  them 
the  day  before  they  are  wanted. 

If 


SYLLABUBS.        419 

If  they  are  to  tafte  very  ftrong  of  the  lemon,  put  the 
juice  of  fix  lemons,  and  near  a  pound  of  fugar ;  they 
will  keep  four  or  five  days. 

Solid  Syllabub.  To  a  quart  of  rich  cream,  put  a 
pint  of  white  wine,  the  juice  of  two  lemons,  and  the 
rind  of  one  grated ;  fwecten  it  to  your  tafle.  Whip  it 
up  well,  and  take  oiF  the  froth  as  it  rifes ;  put  it  upon  a 
hair  fieve,  and  let  it  fland  in  a  cool  place  tiU  the  next 
day.  More  than  half  fill  your  glafles  .with  the  thin, 
and  then  heap  up  the  froth  as  high  as  you  can ;  the 
bottom  will  look  clear,  and  keep  four  or  five  days. 

Syllabub  under  the  Cow.  Put  into  a  punch  bowl  a 
pint  of  cyder,  and  a  bottle  of  ftrong  beer ;  grate  in  a 
fmall  nutmeg,  and  fweeten  it  to  your  tafte  $  then  milk 
from  the  cow  as  much  milk  as  will  make  a  ftrong  froth. 
Then  let  it  ftand  an  hourj  ftrew  over  it  a  few  currants 
well  wafhed,  picked,  and  plumped  before  the  fire,  and 
it  will  be  fit  for  fervice. 

Everlafting  Syllabub.  Take  five  half  pints  of  thick 
cream,  half  a  pint  of  rhenifh,  half  a  pint  of  fack,  and 
the  juice  of  two  large  Seville  oranges ;  grate  in  juft  the 
yellow  rind  of  three  lemons,  and  a  pound  of  double-re* 
fined  iugar  well  beat  and  fifted ;  mix  all  together  with 
a  fpoonfiil  of  orange  flower  water;  beat  it  well  with  a 
whifk  half  an  hour,  then  with  a  ipoon  take  it  off,  zgA 
lay  it  on  a  fieve  to  drain;  and  fill  your  glafles.  Thefc 
will  keep  above  a  week,  and  are  better  made  the  day 
before* 


Hhhji  T-    TARTS. 


I    4»P    ] 


T. 
TARTS. 

If  tarts  arc  meant  to  be  eaten  cold,  make  the  fbortr 
cruft.  J[See  the  article  Pastes.]  An  apple  tart  is  made 
the  fame  as  the  pie^  but  if  to  be  eaten  cold>  make  the 
fliort  cruft. 

If  you  ufe  tin  patties  to  bake  in>  butter  them,  and 
put  a  little  cruft  all  over  them,  or  you  will  not  be  able 
to  take  them  out ;  but  if  you  bake  them  in  glafs  or 
china,  only  an  upper  cruft  will  be  necefiary,  as  you  wiU 
not  want  to  take  them  out  when  you  fend  them  to  table. 
Lay  fine  fugar  at  the  bottom,  then  your  cherries,  plums, 
or  whatever  you  may  want  to  put  in  them,  and  put  (u« 
gar  at  the  top.  Currants,  rafpberries,  and  cherries  re* 
quire  but  litde  baking ;  goofeberries,  to  look  red,  muft 
ftand  a  good  while  in  the  oven.  Apricots,  if  green, 
require  more  baking  than  when  ripe ;  quarter  or  halve 
ripe  apricots,  and  put  in  fbme  of  the  kernels. 

Prefcrved  fruit,  as  damafcc;nes  and  buUace,  require  but 
litde  baking  j  fruit  that  is  prefcrved  high  fhould  not  be 
baked  at  all ;  but  the  cruft  fliould  firft  be  baked  upon 
a  tin  the  fize  the  tart  fhould  be  j  cut  it  to  a  proper  fize, 
and  when  cold,  take  it  off,  and  lay  it  on  the  fruit.  Ap- 
ples and  pears  intended  to  be  put  into  tarts  muft  be 
pared,  cut  into  quarters,  and  cored.  Cut  the  quarters 
acrofs  again,  fet  them  on  in  a  faucepan  with  as  much 
water  as  will  barely  cover  them,  and  let  them  fimmer 
on  a  flow  fire  juft  till  the  fruit  is  tender.  Put  a  good 
piece  of  Icmon-pcd  into  the  water  with  the  fruit,  and 

2  then 


TARTS.  4*1 

then  have  your  patties  ready.  Pour  over  each  tart  a 
tea-fpoonfui  of  lemon-juice,  and  three  tea-fpoonfuls  of 
the  liquor  they  were  boiled  in  >  then  put  on  your  lid^ 
and  bake  them  in  a  flack  oven.  In  apricot  tarts  you 
muft  not  ufe  any  lemon-juice. 

A  buttered  Tart.  Take  eight  or  ten  large  codlings^ 
and  fcald  them,  when  cold,  ikin  them,  take  the  pulp 
and  beat  it  as  fine  as  you  can  with  a  (ilver  fpoon,  thea 
inix  in  the  yolks  of  fix  eggs  and  the  whites  of  four  beat 
all  well  together,  a  Seville  orange,  iqueeze  in  the  juice^ 
and  fhred  the  rind  as  fine  as  poifible,  with  fome  grated 
nutmeg  and  fugar  to  your  tafte ;  melt  fome  fine  frefli 
butter,  and  beat  up  with  it  according  as  it  wants,  till  it  i^ 
all  like  a  fine  thick  cream,  and  then  make  a  fine  pufiF-- 
paile ;  have  a  large  tin  patty  that  will  juft  hold  it,  cover 
the  patty  with  the  pafte,  and  throw  in  the  ingredients;  do 
not  put  any  cover  on,  bake  it  in  a  quarter  of  an  hour^ 
then  flip  it  out  of  the  patty  on  a  difh,  and  throw  fine  fugar 
well  beat  all  over  it.  It  is  a  very  pretty  (kle  difh  for  a  fe^- 
cond  courfe.  You  may  make  tliis  of  any  large  applca 
you  plcafe. 

A  rafpberry  Tart  with  Cream.  Roll  out  fome  thin 
pufFpafle,  and  lay^it  in  a  patty  pan;  lay  in  fome  rafp- 
berries,  and  flrew  over  them  fome  very  fine  fugar  j  put 
on  the  lid  and  bake  it ;  cut  it  open^  and  put  in  half  a 
pint  of  cream,  the  yolks  of  two  or  three  eggs  well  beat, 
and  a  little  fugar.  Let  it  fland  to  be  cold  before  it  is 
fent  to  table. 

To  make  Rhubarb  Tarts.  Cut  the  thick  ftem  of  the 
•  rhubarb  leaf  into  pieces  the  fize  of  a  goofeberry,  and 
make  it  as  a  goofeberry  tart. 


42a  TEA. 

A  Spinach  Tart.  Scald  the  fpinach  in  boiling  water, 
and  drain  it  very  well  to  chop,  then  ftew  it  in  butter 
and  cream,  wth  a  litde  fait,  fugar,  a  few  fmall  pieces 
of  dried  comfit  citron,  and  a  few  drops  of  orange  flower 

"water. 

.  Tart  ie  MoL  Make  fome  good  puff  pafte,  and  Jay 
round  your  dilh,  put  fome  bifcuits  at  the  bottom,  add 
ibme  marrow  and  a  litde  butter ;  then  cover  it  with 
dif&rent  kinds  of  fweetmeats,  as  many  as  you  have,  and 
£>  on  till  your  difh  is  full ;  then  boil  a  quart  of  cream, 
and  thicken  it  with  four  eggs  and  a  fpoonful  of  orange 
flower  water.  Sweeten  it  with  fugar  to  your  palate^ 
and  pour  over  the  reft,    ^alf  an  hour  will  bake  f  r« 


T    E    A. 


We  h^vt  {o  frequently  had  occafion  to  remark  on  the 
cffefts  of  Tea  during  the  courfe  of  this  wirk,  that  wc^ 
mv&  here  be  very  concife  on  the  fubjeft;  obfeiving 
again,  that  the  injuries  attributed  to  it  are  chiefly  owing 
to  its  impmdent  ufc. 

Tea  was  firft  imported  from  Holland  by  the  Earls  of 
Arlington  and  Oflbry  in  1666  j  their  ladies  taught  the 
ufe  of  it  to  women  of  quality,  for  fuch  only  were  then 
aljle  to  afford  it,  the  price  being  very  great,  not  lels  than 
three  pounds  fterling  per  lb.  It  continued  at  this  price 
even  to  the  year  1707*  In  17 15,  we  began  to  ufc 
green  tea ;  and  as  great  quantities  were  imported,  and 
the  prices  conft^quently  leffened,  the  practice  of  drinking 
it  defccnded  to  the  lower  cUfs  of  people.  Jn  i7^o>  the 
French  began  to  fend  it  hidicr  by  a  clandeftine  com- 

mcrce. 


E      A.  4^3 

mcrce.  From  17 17  to  1726,  we  imported  annually 
fcvcn  hundred  thoufand  pounds.  From  1732  to  1742, 
a  million  and  two  hundred  thoufand  pounds  were  aimu- 
ally  brought  to  Lx>ndonj  in  fome  years  afterwards  three 
millions,  and  in  1755  near  four  millions  of  pounds<  ' 
Such  has  been  the  progrcfs  of  tea  drinking,  and  thus 
general  it  has  become  in  a  fpace  of  time  not  more  than 
eighty  years  i  for  before  1707,  it  was  an  article  of  ex* 
penfive  luxury,  entirely  confined  to  perfons  of  rank  and 
fortune. 

Trcatifcs  have  been  written  to  prove  the  pernicious 
efFefts  of  tea  drinking,  which,  it  is  plain,  have  been 
very  little  attended  to.  People  of  the  loweft  ranks  make 
their  breakfafts  of  it ;  and,  according  to  the  prefent  ftate 
of  men's  conftitutions,  it  would  be  difficult  to  find  a 
cheaper  breakfaft.  Thofe  phyficians  who  have  repre- 
fcnted  it  as  occafioning  nervous  diforders,  feem  not 
fofficiently  to  have  confidered,  that  where  tea  difagrees, 
the  habit  lias  been  relaxed  \>y  other  means;  and  if 
nervous  diforders  and  infanity  are  more  common  'now 
than  formerly,  the  caufc  will  be  found,  where  it  is  more 
natural  to  feck  it,  in  the  ufe  of  fpiritmus  liquors,  and 
particularly  thofe  which  are  the  produce  of  our  own 
diftilleries. 

Too  much  ftrefs  has  been  laid  upon  experiments 
made  with  the  plant ;  thefe  are  fallacious,  becaufe  the 
quantity  drank  at  a  time,  of  the  flight  infufion  com- 
monly ufed,  rarely  exceeds  three  cups.  The  mifchief 
of  tea  drinking  arifes  principally  from  its  being  drank 
boty  which  is  a  praftice  too  general  among  the  fair  fex ; 
but  the  fame  effefts  would  be  felt  from  the  fame  quan- 
tity of  water  made  palatable  by  fugar.    Let  thofe  who 

diink 


404 


T    E    E    T    tt. 


think  that  tea  injures  them  try  the  experiment^  and  they 
will  find  that  water  drank  hot  will  have  the  fame  efieds« 
In  truth,  cea  is  to  be  confidered  as  a  palatable  and 
cheap  beverage^  and  that  only.  In  the  nnoming,  it  re- 
moves the  nauiea  from  the  ftomach  contracted  by  ileep^ 
and  reftorcs  the  organs  of  tafte  to  their  proper  difcrimi- 
nation  In  the  afternoon  it  brings  people^  and  particii* 
larly  the  ladies^  together  for  a  little  converfation. 


TEAL. 

To  roqft  Teal.  When  your  teals  are  ready  drefled^ 
put  in  them  a  fmall  onion,  pepper,  fait,  and  a  fpoon- 
fill  of  red  wine  j  if  the  fire  be  good,  they  will  roaft  in 
twenty  minutes  j  make  gravy  of  necks  and  gizzards,  a 
fpoonful  of  red  wine,  half  an  anchovy,  a  blade  or  two 
of  mace,  a  (lice  of  an  end  of  a  lemon,  one  onion,  and 
a  little  kyan  pepper;  boil  it  till  it  is  wailed  to  half  £t  pint^ 
ftrain  it  through  a  hair  fieve,  put  in  a  fpoonful  of  brown- 
hig,  pour  it  on  your  te^ls ;  ferve  them  up  with  onion 
iauce  in  a  boat.  Garnifh  your  difh  with  raipings  of 
bread. 


^mik 


T    E    E    T    M. 

To  prefcrve  the  teeth  in  order,  and  in  any  degree  of 

beauty,   requires  lefs  trouble  than  perfcverance.     Five 

minutes  labour  every  morning    is  amply  fufiicient: 

indeed,  to  produce  a  fet  of  fine,  regular  teeth,  they 

ihould 


TEETH.  425 

fhould  be  taken  under  management/ from  their  very  firft 
appearance,  and  every  afliftance  given  to  make  them 
cut  eafy,  and  pulh  out  regularly,  othcrwife  they  have 
left  chance  to  be  well  Ihaped,  well  ranged,  and* make  a 
beautiful  appearance. — ^The  firft  teeth  prepare  fockets 
for  thofe  which  are  to  fucceed  them;  and  upon  the 
right  dilpofition  of  thefe  fockets  will  the  regularity  and 
beauty  of  the  fecond  fet  of  teeth  depend. 

The  breeding  and  cutting  of  the  teeth  often  prove 
prove  fatal  to  infants,  at  all  times  is  attended  with  vio- 
lent pains,  and  frequently  with  convulfions  and  fevers, 
Loofenefs,  if  not  fcvere,  is  rather  a  favourable  fymptom, 
Dihiting  liquors,  as  milk  and  water,  balm  tea,  &c. 
fliould  be  plentifully  adminiftered,  but  by  no  means  too 
warm.  The  appearance  of  the  teeth  are  ufually  foretold 
by  a  fmall  white  circle  furrounding  that  part  of  the 
gum,  and  defcribing  the  fize  of  the  future  tooth ;  at 
this  time  it  will  be  neceffary  to  rub  the  gums  with  a 
little  fine  honey  mixed  with  liquorice  powder,  which 
frequently  prevents  convulfions  j  the  white  fhank  of  a 
boiled  afparagus,  or  the  rib  of  a  large  lettuce  lea^  la 
often  fucccfsfully  employed  to  rub  the  gums  with. 

The  diffitulties  and  dangers  which  attend  teethingj^ 
may  frequendy  be  obviated,  and  confiderably  leffened, 
by  attending  to  a  few  plain  general  rules :  To  keep  the 
body  open  by  cooling  and  correftive  medicines; — to 
guard  againft  any  violent  loofenefles  by  a  proper  change 
of  phyfic ; — to  fupply  the  want  of  immediate  operation 
by  gentle  clyfters  or  vomits ;  and  taking  care  that  the 
food  be  very  light,  (if  the  child  is  weaned)  as  chicken 
broth,  beef  tea,  or  palatable  flops,  which  are  preferable 
to  flefli  meals. 

Vol.  IL  *  I  i  i  For 


42fi  TEETH. 

For  this  purpofr,  rhubarb,  with  magnefia>  in  cafe  of 
tofti vcncfs ;  or  with  prepared  crabs  claws,  in  cafe  of  too 
great  a  degree  of  loofenefs ;  clyfters  made  with  mutton 
or  chicken  broth ;  common  fait,  coarfe  fugar,  and  fweet 
Oil,  adapting  the  quantity  to  the  age  of  the  child. 

From  the  earliefl:  infancy,  children  fhould  be  taught 
to  wafl^  their  teeth  and  gums  every  morning  and  even- 
ing with  cold  water^  and  continue  this  practice  through 
Ufe. 

About  fix  or  feven  years  of  age  they  begin  to  flied 
thefe  firft  teeth,  and  new  ones  fucceed,  the  prefervation 
and  management  of  which  demand  our  vigilant  atten- 
tion. 

Even,  regular  teeth  contribute  fo  much  to  the  beauty 
of  the  human  countenance,  that  without  their  aid  the 
vifage  would  appear  deformed,  and  the  harmony  of  the 
fineft  features  be  incomplete.  Irregularity  might  be 
often  prevented  by  a  tiniely  removal  of  the  firft  fet  of 
teeth,  whenever  they  appear  crooked,  projefting  for- 
ward, inclining  inwards,  or  othcrwife  tending  to  defor- 
mity, as  they  give  the  fhape  to  the  bony  focket  for  thofe 
which  are  to  follow  -,  and  hence  diftort  the  mouth,  and 
jLfSk6t  the  fliape  of  the  whole  face. 

There  is  another  deformity,  which  feems  caufed  by 
inattention  to  the  teeth  in  early  life,  namely,  when  the 
teeth  of  the  under  jaw  projedt  forward  beyond  thofe  of 
the  upper,  and  inclofe  them ;  the  contrary  to  which  be- 
ing the  natural  fituation :  this  being  under-jawed,  not 
only  renders  the  fi-ont  teeth  ufelefs  in  both  jaws  in  eat- 
ing, hut  makes  the  under  one  grow  confidcrjJdy  Iqi\^ 
than  it  otherwife  would. 

The 


TEETH.  4^7 

The  teeth  (hould  be  often  examined  from  ten  or 
twelve  years  of  age,  to  obferve  their  decay,  and  make 
the  neceflary  provifion  againft  it ;  to  prevent  rottennefi 
iix)m  reaching  the  nerve ;  and  alfo  to  remove  all  tarta* 
reous  accumulations  which  may  have  adhered  to  them. 

Thofc  concretions  about  the  teeth  and  gums  which 
arc  called .  the  tartar  of  the  teeth,  proceed  from  a  hurt- 
ful nutriment ;  partly  from  the  faliva,  impregnated  with 
the  excrementitious  juice  of  the  gums,  which  by  con* 
tinually  moiftening  the  teeth  gradually  adds  thefe  tarta« 
reous  particles  to  them. 

This  tartar,  in  confequence  of  its  acrimony,  imper- 
ceptibly confumes  the  fubftance  of  the  teethe  produces 
i>lackneis,  and  frequently  a  caries  or  rottennefs.  Acid 
Ipirits,  fuch  as  the  fpirit  of  fait,  fpirit  of  vitriol,  &c, 
diflblve  the  tartareous  fubftance  on  the  teeth,  yet  too 
frequent,  too  long,  or  any  injudicious  application  there* 
ofi  will  deftroy  the  tooth  itfelf.  Acids  of  every  deno- 
mination are  unfriendly  to  the  teeth,  whether  fpirit  of 
lalt,  vitriolic  fpirit,  tartar  of  vitriol  in  its  acid  ftate, 
cream  of  tartar,  or  alum,  burnt  or  unburnt.  Nor  are 
thefc  the  oiily  preparations  from  which  danger  is  to  be 
apprehended  j  powder  of  coral,  cutde  fifh  bone,  pu- 
mice flone,  and  fimilar  fubftances,  when  frequently 
ufcd,  defboy  the  enamel  not  lefs,  though  in  a  different 
manner,  than  the  foregoing  acids :  the  one  difTolves^ 
the  other  by  its  afperities  afts  like  a  file,  and  rubs  it  off. 
This  feems  to  exclude  all  the  generally  received  prepa- 
rations for  the  teeth,  and  with  great  jufticej  but  wc 
hope  to  offer  others  in  their  place,  which  will  equally 
anfwer  every  good  intention,  without  caufing  the  Icafl 
dijfagrceabk  confequence. 

liii^  Mof^ 


4^8  T    E    E    T    H. 

Moll  people  nniay  obferve,  that  however  clean  their 
teeth  are  on  going  to  bed  at  night,  yet  on  palling  a  fin- 
ger over  them  next  niorning,  they  will  be  found  covered 
with  a  thin^  ilimy  fubflance,  which  feems  the  refiduum 
of  the  faliva,  united  with  an  excrementitious  juice  fiDnA 
the  gums,  gathers  about  the  teeth,  and  acquires  a  de- 
gree of  hardnefs  litde  inferior  to  themfeives.  A  com- 
pofition>  therefore,  which  will  abforb  this  mucous  fub- 
fiance,  prevent  it  from  adhering  to  the  teeth,  and  pre« 
(crrt  their  natural  colour,  is  the  beft  tooth  powder  that 
can  be  made  u(e  of:  that  artificial  whitenefs  which  is 
cau(ed  by  ufing  alum  and  fimilar  fubftances,  is  a  cer- 
tain indication  of  their  approaching  decay,  which  is 
loon  after  more  fenfibly  announced  by  duUn^  and 
pain. 

When  the  teeth  are  once  perfectly  freed  from  tartar, 
(which  often  lurks  under  the  gums,  unknown  to  one's 
felf )  the  frequent  ufe  of  the  following  powder  will  pre« 
ferve  them  for  years : 

Rejlorathe  Powder  for  the  Teeth  and  Gums. 

Take  French  bole,  one  ounce  i  dragon's  blood  and 
myrrh,  each  half  an  ounce ;  maftic,  a  dram  and  a  half  j 
cinnamon  and  cloves,  each  half  a  dram :  reduce  them 
into  a  very  fine  powder,  and  with  your  finger  dipped 
therein,  rub  die  teeth  and  gums  weU  two  or  three  times 
a  week,  rinfuig  the  mouth  afterwards  with  coW  water. 
This  comforts  and  ftrengthens  the  gums,  abforbs  all 
that  acrimonious  flime  and  foulnefs  which  would  accu* 
mulate  to  die  deftrudtioa  of  the  teeth,  and  has  this  pe« 
liar  property,  that  it  can  never  do  them  an  iiigury. 

To  fuch  as  are  defirous  of  preparations,  that  Jwili  mom 

z  fpec-H 


V 


TEETH.  41^ 

(peedily  whiten  the  teeth,  we  (hall  communicate  a  few 
receipts  for  that  purpofe : 

Take  myrrh,  roch  alum,  dragon's  blood,  and  cream 
of  tartar,  each  one  ounce  j  mufk,  two  grains :   make . 
them  into  a  fine  powder. 

The  author  of  this  recipe  is  fo  honeft:  as  to  add^ 

*  that,  though  fimple,  it  is  ah  efficacious  dentifrice ;  yc? 

*  nothing  of  the  kind  fhould  be  applied  too  frequently 

*  to  the  teeth,  for  fdar  of  hurting  the  enamel/ 

If  the  teeth  and  gums  are  rubbed  with  a  piece  of 
clean  rag  dipped  Jn  vinegar  of  fquills,  it  will  not  only 
vs^hiten,  but  fallen  the  roots  of  the  teeth,  and  corred  an 
offcnCwf  breathe 

When  the  enamel  of  the  teeth  is  wafted>  either  by  a 
Icorbutic  humour,  or  any  external  caufe,  the  tooth  can- 
not long  remain  found,  and  muft  therefore  be  cleaned 
with  great  caution  -,  for  which  purpofe  a  piece  of  wood, 
like  a  butcher's  fkewer,  rriade  foft  at  the  end,  and  either 
ufed  alone,  or  dipped  in  the  reftorative  powder  recom- 
mended above. 

The  large  double  teeth  (two'  on  each  fide  next  the 
Jentes  fapientU)  are  often  difcovered,  even  at  their  firft 
appearance,  to  have  feveralfmaJl  holes;  and  as  thefe  teeth 
arc  not  fucceeded  by  any  others,  care  fhould  be  taken, 
as  early  as  poflible,  to  ftop  the  holes  up,  otherwife  they 
daily  enlarge,  brealv  into  one,  and  become  attended 
with  much  pain. 

When  the  hollows  of  decayed  teeth  are  filled  up, 
whether  with  gold  or  other  materials,  the  perfbn  fhoul4 
avoid  cracking  nuts,  ^r  fqueezing  any  hard  fubftance 
between  them,  as  that  will  not  only  cauie  the  flopping 
to  come  our,  but  frequently  break  even  found  teeth. 

Thp 


C  430  ] 

The    TOOTH-ACrt 

l^rocecds  from  a  variety  of  caufes,  but,  perhaps,  from 
no  one  more  frequently  than  negleft  of  deanlineft  j  roc- 
tennefs  of  the  teeth  is  only  a  fecondary  caufc,  or  a  con- 
iequence  of  the  former  5  and  it  is  certain  that  no  in- 
ftances  arc  to  be  met  with  of  diforders  originadng  in 
the  internal  part  of  a  found  tooth,  which,  however,  is 
cx)mmonly  the'  feat  of  complaint ;  always,  indeed,  in 
decayed  teeth,  probably  occafioncd  by  the  air  entering 
tfie  decayed  part,  and  afFefting  the  blood -veflcls,  or 
nervous  membranes. 

Remedies  for  this  complaint  are  without  mimber. 
When  the  diforder  is  flight,  it  may  frequently  be  alle- 
viated by  applying  a  bit  of  cotton  dipped  in  oil  of 
tloves,  or  Turlington's  balfam,  to  the  hollow  part,  and 
if  frequently  repeated,  will  oft-times  efFe<5t  a  cure  i 
dnfhire  of  laudanum  or  opium  may  alfo  be  ufed  for  the. 
&me  purpofe. 

When  the  exdrpation  of  tartar  from  under  the  gums 
iias  long  been  neglefted,  it  frequently  corrodes  that 
part  of  the  tooth  where  the  enamel  ends,  and  brings  on 
a  difagreeable  fenfation,  which  is  generally  heightened 
by  eating  acids,  fruit,  fweetmeats,  &c.  The  fame  com* 
plaint  is  frequently  brought  on  by  ufing  hard,  cutting 
iubftances,  under  the  name  of  tooth  powders  j  it  may 
be  prevented  from  going  farther  by  the  ufe  of  the  refto- 
rative  powder  before  recommended.  Indeed,  the  very 
clofe  adhefion  of  the  tartareous  matter  will  produce  a 
pain  not  eafily  diftinguifliable  from  the  common  tooth- 
a^,  but  which  always  fubfides  on  removing  the  caufc. 

Severe 


T  O  O  T  H  -  A  C  H.  431 

Severe  colds,  violent  exercife,  fitting  up  late,  or  ex- 
ceflive  drinking,  will  bring  on  a  tooth-ach  of  different 
kind  from  the  foregoing,  being  attended  with  violent 
head-ach,  fwelling  of  the  cheeks,  and  an  inflammation 
of  the  gums  that  frequently  fuppurates :  it  moftly  be- 
gins with  a  gnawing  pain  about  the  roots,  e^cially  of  ' 
the  dpuble  teeth,  the  pulfe  quickens,  and  a  fever  cn- 
fues,  with  increafcd  pain  for  three  or  four  days^  till  the 
inflammation  rifes  to  its  height,  the  difcharge  whererf 
commonly  gives  relief. 

Slight  eleArical  Ihocks,  or  rather  fparks  drawn  from 
the  tooth ;  bleeding,  efpecially  by  leeches  applied  near 
the  feat  of  the  complaint,  and  evacuations  by  ftool,  wjll 
be  found  of  great  fervice.  Sometimes  a  flannel  cloth 
Ibaked  in  a  ftrong  decoftion  of  camomile,  applied  warm 
as  it  can  be  borne,  and  repeated  quickly,  will  vciy  • 
much  alleviate  the  complaint. 

A  blifter  behind  the  ear,  when  the  pain  is  extremely 
violent,  may  be  applied  with  advantage ;  and  fmoaking 
cither  common  or  herb  tobacco  (the  latter  is  lead  weak* 
cning  to  the  ftomach)  will  aflbrd  a  temporary  relief; 
though  fuch  means  cannot  totally  remove  the  diforder, 
which  is  too  deeply  rooted  to  be  eradicated  by  thefe  fii- 
perficial  remedies. 

When  bleeding  and  other  applications  fail,  let  the 
patient  take  an  ounce  of  nitre  divided  into  fucteen 
doles;  abftaining  from  flefh-meat,  wine,  and  hot  li« 
quors. 

Generally,  as  the  inflammation  increafes,  the  fcverity 
of  the  pain  declines ;  and  in  fome,  though  few  cafes, 
the  inflammation  will  be  very  confiderable  without  any 
pain  whatever.    Should  the  diibrder  be  (o  violent  as  tor 

endanger 


432  T  O  O  T  H  -  A  C  H. 

endanger  the  palace  of  the  mouthy  by  the  fecret  lodge- 
ment of  any  acrimonious  matter,  the  cafe  becomes 
highly  alarming,  and  requires  the  choiceft  itiedical  al^ 
fiftance. 

Opiates  may  be  advantageoufly  adminiftered,  and  of- 
ten afford  confiderable  relief,  when  applied  as  a  plaifler  ib 
as  to  cover  the  affeftcd  part. 

The  inflammatory  tooth-ach  is  the  common,  and  per- 
haps the  only  origin  of  gum-boils,  a  morbid  affcdtion  of 
the  gums,  fo  called;  and  one  of  the  very  few  canfes 
which  can  render  it  neceflary  to  extraft  a  tooth. 

It  ihould  be  obferved,  that  during  the  inflammation^ 
It  will  be  very  improper  to  attempt  extrading  the  pain- 
ful tooth;  the  roots  being  at  that  time  fo  tightly  wedged 
in  their  fockcts,  as  to  render  it  liable  to  be  broken  in  the 
operation ;  without  faying  any  thing  of  the  very  excru- 
ciating pain  it  caufes  at  this  time. 

There  is  a  third  tooth-ach,  which  feems  to  be  a  par- 
ticular fort  of  rheumatifm;  for  we  may  often  obfcrvc 
pains  of  the  joints  and  fhoulders  tranflated  to  one  fide  of 
the  head,  the  teeth  of  which  they  attack  in  the  moft  vio- 
lent manner.  On  the  contrary,  pains  in  die  head  and 
teeth  are  obferved  frequently  to  change  their  feats,  and 
fall  upon  die  fhoulders  and  arms.  As  a  rheumadfm  is 
brought  on  by  an  intemperate,  or  fudden  change  of  air, 
jb  a  tooth-ach  of  this  cla^s  is  generally  excited  by  a  fud- 
den removal  from  a  warm  to  a  cold  air;  or  by  the  fudden 
changes  of  heat  and  cold  in  the  fpring  and  autumn. 
Rheumatifms  are  more  incident  to  women  than  men> 
6>  alfo  are  tooth-achs,  though  they  generally  prove  far 
more  fcvere  in  the  latter  than  in  the  former.  Beftdes,  it 
U  confirmed  by  experience^  that  fuch  as  are  fubjed  to 

rheumatiQ 


T  O  O  T  H  -  A  C  H.  43  f 

rheumatic  and  gouty  complaints^  are  much  iefs  afflifted 
Yfixh  this  tooth-ach :  hence  it  fhould  follow,  that  the  re-> 
gimen  and  method  of  cure  fhould  be  fimilar  with  thofe 
difbrders. 

As  in  rheumatifms  and  gouts,  fo  in  this  tooth^ach, 
thofe  who  have  been  once  afflifted  are  eafily,  and  by  every 
flight  caufe,  fubjefted  to  frefli  attacks  of  the  diforder, 
on  account  of  the  weakncfs  left  behind.  Thefe  pains, 
too,  are  fometimes  periodical ;  often  continue  a  week  or 
ten  days,  almoft  without  intermiifion,  and  then  fubfide 
entirely  for  a  fortnight,  or  longer,  when  they  return  as 
before. 

This  diforder  is  ufually  treated  as  nervous  or  rheu- 
matic ;  and  when  the  pain  has  been  fo  intenfely  violent 
as  to  refift  the  force,  and  elude  the  efficacy  of  all  other 
medicines,  Hoffman  tells  us,  that  he  has  obferved  a  mofl 
fingular  and  unexpefted  relief  afforded  by  the  following 
pills  invented  by  himfelf : 

Take  ofaloetic  pills, one  dram;  oftheftorax  pills,  half 
a  dram;  and  of  the  extraS  offaffron  fix  grains;  mix  them 
into  a  mafs,  of  which  form  fixty  piUs;  f^  or  eight  of 
them  are  to  be  given  for  a  dofe. 

Extraction  of  the  tooth  is  the  laft  remedy  that  can  be. 
propofed,  when  the  particular  one  can  be  difcovered. 
But  it  mufl  be  obferved,  that  there  are  rheumatic  and 
nervous  pains  in  the  head,  entirely  unconncftcd  with, 
and  independent  of  the  teeth  i  and  from  which,  were  all 
the  teeth  in  the  head  drawn  out,  the  patient  would  not 
find  the  fmalleft  relief.  And,  indeed,  thofe  who  fufFer 
their  teeth  to  be  pulled  out  when  firm  and  found,  pay 
very  little  regard  to  their  own  welfare;  for  tooth  draw- 
ing is  not  only  a  painful  operation,  but  is  often  attended  . 

Vol.  II.  K  k  k  with 


4X4^  TOOTH-AC  H. 

vith  bad  accidents^  and  even  ibmedmes  endangers  the 
patient's  life. 

,Toodi*drawing,  kowever  wrong,  injudicioufly,   or 
wantonly  performed  in  fome  cafes,  is  certainly  right  and 
neceflkry  in  others.     It  is  fometimes  neceflary  to  draw  a 
tooth  for  the  curing  a  fiftula,  or  ulceration  of  the  gums 
near  the  roots  of  the  teeth. 

One  argument  that  might  diiluade  people  from  flying 
to  this  operation  on  every  trifling  caufe,  is  the  very  great 
injury  the  face  fuftains  in  its  beauty.  A  diminution 
takes  place,  both  in  length  and  breadth ;  the  cheeks  in 
particular  fall  in  and  look  lanky;  and  the  whole  vifage 
appears  no  larger  than  that  of  a  child. 

We  fhall  conclude  this  ardcle  with  enumeradng  a  few 
particulars,  a  want  of  attention  to  which  is  often  a  preju* 
dice  not  only  to  people's  teeth,  but  fl-equently^even  ta 
healdi  itfelf. 

I .  Expofing  themfelves  to  catch  cold,  by  walking 
late  abroad,  fleeping  with  the  head  too  thinly  covered, 
or  ftanding  too  long  oppofite  to  a  gate,  or  window,  half 
open — which  occafion  a  flux  of  humours  to  fall  on  the 
teeth,  creating  the  tooth-ach,  fwelling  of  the  cheeks,  &c. 

a.  Negleding  to  keep  the  arms  and  legs  fulEciendy 
warm,  is  often  attended  with  as  great  prejudice  to  the 
teeth,  as  fufFcring  cold  in  the  head  from  the*  fame  negleft. 

3.  Not  taking  proper  care  of  the  head,  by  combing 
it  frequendy;  which  negligence  prevents  this  part  from 
perfpiring  fo  freely  as  it  ought,  whence  the  fuperfluous 
humour  falls  down  upon  the  teeth  and  gives  birth  to  fc- 
veral  complaints. 

4.  Eadng 


1 


V 


T  O  O  T  H  -  A  C  H.  435 

4.  Eating  or  drinking  things  that  are  too  hot,  as  cof- 
fee,, tea,  &c.  or  holding  hot  (pirituous  liquors,  cauftic 
oils,  and  Ipices  in  the  mouth  for  the  tooth-ach,  which 
give  a  temporary  eafe,  but  lay  the  foundation  for  future 
pains. 

5.  Nothing  is  more  apt  to  loofen  the  teeth,  and  rub 
off  the  enamel,  than  picking  them  with  a  quill  tooth- 
pick ;  for  that  part  of  the  quill  which  the  tooth-pick  is 
made  of,  is  a  very  hard  elaftic  fubftance,  and  very  Iharpj 
by  being  pafTed  backwards  and  forwards  between  the 
teeth,  it  afts  almoft  as  a  file,  wears  the  enamel,  and 
at  laft  totally  drffrovs  it;  and  we  may  very  readily  ob- 
ferve,  that  the  teeth  generally  grow  carious  firft'  at  the 
fides,  where  the  tooth-pick  is  moft  employed.  Gold 
and  filver  are  not  fo  elaftic  as  the  point  of  a  quill,  nor  do 
the  leaft  injury  by  friftion  againft  the  teeth.  Ivory  finely 
polifhed,  and  wrought  into  tooth-picks,  is  not  injurious; 
but  maftic  wood  or  biftort  root  are  much  fuperior,  as  by 
their  aftringent  quality  they  ftrengthen  and  preferve 
the  gums. 

6.  Eating  fweetmeats,  which  by  their  vifcidity  ftick 
clofe  to  the  teeth,  and  corrode  them ;  chewing  things 
that  are  toS  hard,  or  cracking  the  ftones  of  firuit  or  nuts, 
&c.  eating  green  fi-uit,  pickles,  &c.  which  fret  the  gums; 
chewing  food  that  is  tough  and  fibrous,  as  falted  meat  or 
fifh,  neglecting  to  wa(h  the  mouth  after  eating,  eipecially 
any  of  the  foods  juft  mentioned;  with  the  frequent  ufe  of 
faigh-feafoned  dilhes. 


l^kkz  TENCH. 


[  '43«   ] 

E      N      C      H. 

To  boil  Tench.  Take  tench  frcfh  from  the  ponds, 
gut  them,  fcale  them  clean,  then  put  them  into  a  ftcw- 
pan  with  as  much  water  as  will  juft  cover  them,  a  little 
fait,  whole  pepper,  and  lemon  peel,  a  few  cloves,  a  bunch 
of  fweet  herbs,  and  a  ftick  of  horfe-radilh ;  let  them 
boil  till  they  are  tender,  and  when  they  are  enough, 
take  out  fome  of  the  liquor,  with  which  mix  a  glals  of 
white  wine  and  a  little  lemon-juice  or  verjuice,  and  an 
anchovy  fhred. 

Boil  it  a  few  minutes  and  thicken  it  with  butter 
tubbed  in  flour,  and  with  the  fauce  tofi  up  a  pint  ot 
Ihrimps ;  pour  this  over  the  filh. 

Garnifh  with  fried  bread  cut  in  the  length  of  a  finger. 
Dices  of  lemon  and  horfe-radifh  fcraped,  and  pickled 
mufhrooms  if  you  pleafe,  or  you  may  tofe  up  fome  of 
them  in  the  fauce. 

To  fry  Tench.  Gut,  waffi,  and  dry  them  well  in  a 
cloth;  flit  them  down  the  back,  fprinklc  a  little  fait 
over  them,  and  dredge  them  with  flour;  fiy  them  of  a 
fine  brown  in  boiling  lard.  Sauce — anchovy,  with 
muflirooms,  truffles,  and  capers,  all  chopped  fmall,  and 
ftewed  in  gravy,  with  the  juice  of  a  lemon,  and  a  litdc 
fifli  cullis. 

To  bake  TEVicn,  Let  the  tench  be  frefli  from  the 
pond,  ^ut  and  fcale  tliem  clean;  then  kill  them  by  giv- 
ing them  a  hard  ftrokeon  the  back  part  of  the  head,  or 
elfe  they  will  live  for  feveral  hours,  and  even  jump  out 
of  the  pan  in  the  oven;  when  they  are  half  enough,  lay 
them  in  a  pan  with  fome  ftrong  gravy,  mufliroom  ket- 
chup, half  a  pint  of  white  wine  and  as  much  of  pickled 

mulh- 


T    E    R    R    I    N    E-  437 

inuflirooms,  feme  fait,  pepper,  cloves  and  nutmeg,  a 
bunch  of  I'weet  herbs  and  lemon  peel,  two  Or  three  flicea 
of  fat  bacon,  an  anchovy  or  two,  and  three  or  four  large 
fhallots;  lay  fome  bits  of  butter  upon  the  fifh,  cover  all 
as  clofe  as  you  can,  and  let  them  have  an  hour's  baking* 

When  they  are  baked,  lay  them  in  a  hot  dilh,  and 
pour  off  the  liquor  and  drain  it,  only  preferving  die 
inufhrooms;  then  add  a  Ipoonful  of  lemon  juice  and 
thicken  the  fauce  with  the  yolks  of  four  eggs,  beatea 
with  cream  and  mixt  by  degrees  with  the  fauce. 

Pour  this  over  the  filh  -,  garnifh  with  beet  roots  diced, 
lenrion  diced  and  horfe-radidi  fcraped,  and  ferve  it  up 
hoc. 


T    E    R    R    I    N    E- 

Terrine  is  a  French  didi,  fo  called  from  Ternne, 
which  fignifies  an  earthen  pan ;  it  is  made  of  half  a  dozen 
quails,  four  young  pigeons,  a  couple  of  chickens,  and 
a  bread  of  mutton  cut  to  pieces ;  bake  or  dew  them  in 
an  earthen  pan  between  two  gentle  fires,  with  lards  of 
bacon  at  the  bottom  to  keep  them  from  burning,  or 
young  drcakcd  bacon  cut  into  pieces;  then  draining  o^ 
the  fat  put  fome  veal  gravy  into  its  place,  and  add  fom^ 
boiled  lettuce^  a  little  green  peas  or  alparagus  tops. 

Stew  all  again  together  for  fome  time,  and  clear  \f 
well  from  the  fat  before  it  is  fcrved  up. 


TOOT  HA  C  H.— Sec  Teeth^ 


TONGUES, 


C  438  3 

TONGUES. 

To  fait  Tongues.  Scrape  and  dry  them  with  a 
clean  cloth  j  fait  them  well  with  common  fait,  add  half 
an  ounce  of  falrpetre  to  every  tongue,  lay  them  in  a 
deep  pot,  turning  them  every  day  for  a  week  or  ten  daysi 
ialt  them  again,  and  let  them  lie  a  week  longer;  then 
dry  them  with  a  cloth,  flour  them,  and  hang  them  up^ 

To  boil  a  Tongue.  If  it  is  fait,  foak  it  in  loft  water  all 
night;  boil  it  three  hours ;  if  frelhout  of  the  pickle,  two 
hours  and  a  half,  and  put  it  in  when  the  water  boils ; 
take  it  out  and  pull  it,  trim  it ;  garnifti  with  greens  and 
carrots^ 

Another  way.  If  your  tongue  be  a  dry  one,  ftcep  it 
in  water  all  night ;  then  boil  it  three  hours.  If  you 
would  have  it  eat  hot,  flick  it  with  cloves,  rub  it  over 
with  the  yolk  of  an  egg,  ftrew  over  it  bread  crumbs, 
bafte  it  with  butter,  let  it  before  the  fire  till  it  is  a  light 
brown.  When  you  difh  it  up  pour  a  little  brown  gravy, 
or  red  wine  fauce,  mixed  the  fame  way  as  for  venifon ; 
lay  flices  of  currant  jelly  round  it. — N.  B.  If  it  be  a 
pickled  one,  only  wafli  it  out  of  water. 

Jnother  way.  Lard  a  tongue  with  pretty  large 
pieces,  and  boil  it  in  the  broth  pot,  or  in  water,  with  a 
few  onions  and  roots;  when  it  is  done,  peel  it,  and 
ferve  it  with  broth,  fprinkling  a  little  pepper  and  fait 
over  it. 

It  is  alfo  ufcd  without  larding,  and  being  boiled  frelh 
in  this  manner,  is  preferable  to  any  diing  eUe  for  mince- 
pie  meat, 

Anothtt 


TONGUES.  439 

Another  way.  Scald  a  tongue,  and  parboil  it ;  then 
peel  it,  and  lard  it  through  with  coarfc  pieces ;  finilH  it 
by  itfelf  in  a  fmaU  pot,  with  broth,  pepper,  fait,  carrots, 
parfnips,  two  onions,  dices  of  lard,  a  faggot,  fhallots, 
two  cloves,  a  laurel  leaf,  thyme,  bafil,  a  few  tarragon 
leaves,  and  a  glafs  of  white  wine;  boil  on  a  flow  fire^ 
and  put  to  it  what  fauce  you  pleafe. 

Calves,  flieep,  or  porker's  tongues  arc  drefied  the 
feme  way. 

^oftew  Neat's  Tongues.  Put  two  tongues  in  wa- 
ter juft  fufficient  to  cover  them,  and  let  them  ftew  two 
hours;  then  peel  them,  and  put  them  in  again  with  a  pint 
of  ftrong  gravy,  half  a  pint  of  white  wine,  a  bundle  of  fweet 
herbs,  a  little  pepper  and  fait,  fome  mace,  cloves,  and 
whole  pepper,  tied  in  a^  muflin  rag;  a  fpoonful  of 
capers  chopped,  turnips  and  carrots  fliced,  and  a  piece 
of  butter  rolled  in  flour.  Let  all  ftew  together  very 
fbftly  over  a  flow  flre  for  two  hours,  and  then  take  out 
the  fpice  and  fweet  herbs,  and  fend  the  difli  to  table. 
You  may,  juft  as  you  like,  leave  out  the  turnips  and 
carrots,  or  boil  them  by  themfclves,  and  lay  them  in  a 
difli. 

Neat's  Tongue  a  le  Remoulade — ^Neat's  Tongue 
with  a  relljhing  Sauce.  Scald  a  frefli  tongue  and  peel  it, 
lard  it  with  large  pieces  of  bacon,  boil  it  into  the  ftock 
pot,  or  in  broth,  with  a  little  fait,  and  a  nofegay ;  fplit 
it,  but  not  quite  in  two ;  make  a  fauce  with  parfley, 
fliallots,  capers,  anchovies,  all  very  finely  chopped,  a  lit- 
tie  vinegar,  a  few  crumbs  of  bread  or  rafpings,  a  litde 
cuUis  and  broth,  fome  fait  and  pepper;  boil  all  to- 
gether a  litde,  then  put  the  tongue  in  it  to  fimmer  for 
a  quarter  of  an  hour.  When  you  ferve,  add  a  litde 
muftard.  7b 


440  TONGUES. 

To  force  a  Neat's  Tongue.  Boil  it  till  it  is  tendkr; 
let  it  ftand  till  it  is  cold^  then  cut  a  hole  at  the  root  end 
of  it,  take  out  fome  of  the  meat|  chop  it  with  as  much 
beef  fuetj  a.  few  pippins,  fome  pepper  and  fait, 'a  litde 
mace  beat,  fome  nutmeg,  a  few  fweet  herbs,  and  the 
yolks  of  two  eggs ;  beat  all  together  well  in  a  msablc 
morta/;  fluff  it,  cover  the  end  with  a  veal  caul,  or  but- 
tered paper ;  roafl  it,  bafle  it  with  butter,  and  difh  it  up. 
Have  for  lauce  good  gravy,  a  little  aielted  butter,  the 
juice  of  an  orange  or  lemon,  and  fome  grated  nutmeg ; 
boil  it  up,  and  pour  it  into  the  difh. 

3a  marinade  Neat's  Tongues.  Boil  them  rill  ten- 
der>  and  peel  them ;  when  cold,  put  them  into  a  veffd 
that  will  hold  them  at  full  length ;  make  a  pickle  of 
white- wine  vinegar  (as  much  as  will  fill  the  vefiel)  fome 
nutmegs,  ginger  fliced,  mace,  whole  cloves,  a  buadi  of 
fweet  herbs,  confifling  of  parfley,  fweet  marjoram,  fagc, 
winter  favory,  thyme,  and  bay-leaves ;  boil  them  well. 
When  cold,  put  them  to  the  tongues,  with  fome  ialt 
and  fliced  lemon;  clofe  them  up.  Serve  them  in  flices 
in  fome  of  the  liquor.  They  may  be  larded  if  agreea* 
ble. 

A  Neat's  Tongue  en  Crepine-^A  Neat's  Tongue 
in  Veal  caul.  Boil  a  tongue  fufRcicntly  to  peel ;  then 
jard  and  fplit  it  without  feparating  it* in  two;  Qicc  fome 
onions,  fry  them  in  hog's  lardj  put  to  it  three  or 
four  fpoonfuls  of  hog's  bloo<.l,  about  a  quarter  of  a 
pound  of  frefh  lard  chopped,  a  fev(  fpices,  and  fait  i 
fimnfKr  it,  flirring  it  continually  till  the  blood  is  well 
mixed ;  then  lay  a  caul  in  the  bottom  of  your  difh,  and 
fpread  upon  it  part  of  your  preparation,  then  the  tongue* 
then  the  fame  as  before  on  the  tongue ;  roll  it  up  in  the 

fi  cauli 


T    O    H    Q    U    E    S,  441 

Caiil/and  girnilh  it  mh  brc^  cnnnbs  j  put  ^t  ip  the  oya^ 
to  bake,  anci  t^k^  4  good  cobur^^  clean  the  diih  free 
^flVm  fat,  and  ferve  it  under  a  fauce  made  with  cuUisn 
jelly  broth,  and  lcnrK>n. 

To  farce  a  Neat's  Tonoue  and  Udder.  Firft  parboi) 
the  tongue  and  udder,  blanch  the  tongqcj  and  ftick  it 
with  cloves.  As  for  the  udder,  you  muft  carefully  raifo 
it,  and  fill  it  with  force-meat  made  of  vc^;  firlt  walhing 
the  infide  *ith  the  yolk  of  an  egg,  then  put  in  th^  force-r 
meat,  tie  the  ends  clofe  and  fptt  themi  roail:  them,  and 
bade  them  with  butter;  when  enQi|gh>  have  good  gravy 
in  thedifh,  and  fweet  fauce  in  a  pup. 

N.  B.  For  variety,  you  may  lafd  the  udder. 

To pQt Neat's  Tonoue.  Take  aneat^s tqr^^, wA 
rub  it  with  an  ounce  of  &ltpetre,  and  four  ounces  of 
brown  fugar,  and  let  it  lie  two  days;  then  boil  it  till  it  is 
quite  tender,  taking  off  the  fkin  and  fide  bi£s ;  then  cut 
the  tongue  in  -^ttj  thin  flices,  and  beat  it  in  a  marble 
mortar,  with  one  pound  of  clarified  butter,  mace,  pep- 
per and  fait  to  your  tafte;  beajt  it  exceeding  fine,  then 
put  it  clofe  down  into  fmall  potting  pots,  and  poyr  din 
rified  butter  over  them. 


TRIPE. 

To  fricajee  Tkipi^  Cut  a  piece  of  double  tripe  in 
pieces  of  about  two  inches;  put  them  in  a  fauccpan  o£ 
water,  with  an  onion,  and  a  bundle  of  fweet  herbs;  boil 
k  till  it  is  quite  tender,  then  have  ready  a  bilhamel  made 
thus :  take  fome  lean  ham,cut  it  in  thin  pieces^  and  put  ic 
in  a  ftewpan,  with  fome  veal,  having  firft  cut  off  the  fat. 

Vol.  II,  L  U  put 


44^  T      R      I      P      E. 

put  it  over  the  ham ;  cut  an  onion  in  dices,  fomc  carrot 
and  turnip,  a  little  thyme,  cloves,  and  mace,  and  fbmc 
frefh  muflirooms  chopped ;  put  a  little  milk  at  the  bot- 
tom, and  draw  it  gently  over  the  fire ;  be  careful  it  docs 
notfcorch,  then  put  in  a  quart  of  milk,  and  half  a  pint 
of  cream;  ftewit  gently  for  an  hour,  thicken  it  with  a 
little  flour  and  milk,  feafon  it  with  fait,  and  a  very  litde 
kyan  pepper  bruifed  fine;  then  drain  it  ofi^  through  a 
tammy;  put  your  tripe  into  it,  to(s  it  up,  and  add  fbme 
force-meatballs,  mulhrooms, and oyfters  blanched;  then 
put  it  into  your  diih,  and  garnifh  with  fried  oyfta-s,  or 
fweetbreads,  or  lemons. 

Another  way.  Take  fome  lean  tripe,  cut  and  fcrzpc 
from  it  all  the  loofe  ftufi^,  and  cut  it  into  pieces  two  inches 
iquare;  cut  them  acrols  from  corner  to  corner,  or  in 
iVhat  ftiapc  you  pleafe;  put  them  into  a  ftcwpan,  with 
half  as  much  white  wine  as  will  cover  them,  fliccd  gin- 
ger, white  pepper,  a  blade  of  mace,  a  bundle  of  fwcct 
herbs,  and  an  onion.  When  it  begins  to  ftew^  a  quar- 
ter of  an  hour  will  do  it;  then  take  out  the  herbs  and 
onion,  ajid  put  in  a  little  Ihred  parfley,  the  juice  of  a 
lemon,  half  an  anchovy  cut  fmall,  a  few  fpoonfiils  of 
cream,  and  the  yolk  of  an  egg,  of  a  piece  of  butter. 
Scafon  it  to  your  tafte,  and  when  you  difh  it  up,  garnifh 
it  with  lemon. 

Another  way.  Cut  fome  nice  white  tripe  into  flips, 
put  it  into  fame  boiled  gravy  with  a  litde  cream,  and  a 
bit  of  butter  mixed  with  flour;  ftir  it  till  the  butter  is 
melted;  add  a  little  white  wine,  lemon-peel  grated, 
chopped  parfley,  pepper,  and  fait,  pickled  muihrooms, 
or  lemon  jqice;  Ihakc  all  together;  ftew  it  a  little. 

TROT- 


i;  443 1 

> 

TROfTiERg. 

A  Fricajfee  o/ Sheep's  Trotters.  Firft  cleanfe  them 
very  well  from  the  hair,  and  walh  them  in  vinegar  and 
water;  then  take  out  the  bones  and  boil  them  in  fait  and 
water,  with  a  little  lemon-^peel,  ^nd  when  they  are  hot 
give  them  cither  of  the  following  fauces  i 

For  a  white  fauce  take  white  wine,  with  a  litde  faltj 
a  few  fweet  herbs,  ifome  whole  pepper,  a  litde  lemons- 
peel,  a  bit  of  horfe-radifh,  and  a  (haloti 

When  it  is  ftrong  enough  relifhed,  ftrain  it  off 
and  take  a  little  of  it,  and  mix  it  with  buttei:  to  thicken 
it ;  or  about  half  a  pint  of  cream,  which  is  better ;  pour 
this  over  the  trotters  with  a  few  capers,  and  fcrve  it  up 
with  dices  of  lemon. 

Abrtnpn  Fricajfee  o/ Trotters.  Drefs  them  as  be* 
fore,  and  when  they  are  fit  for  fauce,  make  Ibme  hog's 
lard  very  hot  in  a  pan,  and  then  put  in  the  trotters,  being 
well  covered  with  flour;  and  when  they  are  enough  pour 
over  them  a  fauce  made  of  gravy,  clareti  and  mu(hrooms| 
thicken  with  burnt  butter* 

Serve  it  up  garnifhed  with  ilices  of  lemon,  pickled 
barberries,  fome  rafpings  of  bread  fifted  and  toafted  bc« 
fore  the  fire. 


T  .    k      O      U      T      S. 

Itojlew  a  Trout.  Stuff  a  fmall  trout  with  grated 
bread,  a  piece  of  butter,  parfley  chopped,  lemon -peel 
grated,  'pepper,  fait,  nutmeg,  favory  herbs,  and  yolk  of 
egg,  mixed  s  put  it  into  a  ftewpan  with  a  quart  of  good 

L  1 1  2  boiled 


44^  T      R      I      P      E. 

put  it  over  the  ham;  cut  an  onion  in  dices,  fbme  carrot 
and  turnip,  a  little  thyme,  cloves,  and  mace,  and  fomc 
frefh  muflirooms  chopped ;  put  a  little  milk  at  the  bot- 
tom, and  draw  it  gently  over  the  fire ;  be  careful  it  docs 
not  fcorch,  then  put  in  a  quart  of  milk,  and  half  a  pint 
of  cream;  ftewit  gently  for  an  hour,  thicken  it  with  a 
little  flour  and  milk,  feafon  it  with  fait,  and  a  very  litde 
kyan  pepper  bruifed  fine;  then  ftrain  it  off  through  a 
tammy;  put  your  tripe  into  it,  tois  it  up,  and  add  fomc 
force-meat  balls,  muflirooms,  and  oyfters  blanched;  then 
put  it  into  your  difli,  and  garnifli  with  fi-ied  oyfters,  or 
fweetbreads,  or  lemons. 

Another  wcr/.  Take  feme  lean  tripe,  cut  and  Icrapc 
from  it  all  the  loofe  duff,  and  cut  it  into  pieces  two  inches 
fquare;  cut  them  acrofs  from  corner  to  corner,  or  in 
what  ftiapc  you  pleafe;  put  them  into  a  ftewpan,  with 
half  as  much  white  wine  as  will  cover  them,  fliced  gin- 
ger, white  pepper,  a  blade  of  mace,  a  bundle  of  fwect 
herbs,  and  an  onion.  When  it  begins  to  fl:ew^  a  quar- 
ter of  an  hour  will  do  it;  then  take  out  the  herbs  and 
onion,  and  put  in  a  little  flired  parfley,  the  juice  of  a 
lemon,  half  an  anchovy  cut  fmall,  a  few  fpoonfuls  of 
cream,  and  the  yolk  of  an  egg,  of  a  piece  of  butter. 
Scafon  it  to  your  tafte,  and  when  you  difli  it  up,  garnifli 
it  with  lemon. 

Another  way.  Cut  fome  nice  white  tripe  into  flips, 
put  it  into  fame  boiled  gravy  with  a  litde  cream,  and  a 
bit  of  butter  mixed  with  flour;  ftir  it  till  the  butter  is 
melted;  add  a  little  white  wine,  lemon-peel  grated, 
chopped  parfley,  pepper,  and  fait,  pickled  muflirooms, 
or  Icnion  JMicc;  ftiakc  all  together ;  ftew  it  a  litde. 

TROT- 


t    443    1 

ir  R  o  f  T  iE  R  3. 

A  Frkajee  o/ Sheep's  Trotters.  Firft  clcanfe  theni 
very  well  from  the  hair,  and  walh  them  in  vinegar  and 
vfaz^r;  then  take  out  the  bones  and  boil  them  in  fait  and 
water,  with  a  little  lemon^peel,  ^nd  when  they  are  hot 
give  them  either  of  the  following  fauces  t 

For  a  white  fauce  take  white  wine,  with  a  licde  faltj^ 
a  few  fweet  herbs,  fbme  whole  pepper,  a  little  lemon- 
peel,  a  bit  of  horfe-radilh,  and  a  fhalot« 

When  it  is  ftrong  enough  relifhed,  ftrain  it  off 
and  take  a  litde  of  it,  and  mix  it  with  battel:  to  thicken 
it ;  or  about  half  a  pint  of  cream,  which  is  better ;  pour 
this  over  the  trotters  with  a  few  capers,  and  fcrve  it  up 
with  dices  of  lemon. 

A  bro^VH  Fricajfee  (?/ Trotters,  l^refs  them  as  be«* 
fore,  and  when  they  are  fit  for  fauce,  make  fbme  hog's 
lard  very  hot  in  a  pan,  and  then  put  in  the  trotters,  being 
weU  covered  with  flour;  and  when  they  are  enough  pour 
over  them  a  fauce  made  of  gravy,  claret^  and  mufhroomsi 
thicken  with  burnt  butter* 

Serve  it  up  garnifhed  with  llices  of  lemon,  pickled 
barberries,  fome  ralpings  of  bread  fifted  and  toafted  bc« 
fore  the  fire. 


«h«*i 


T .    k      O      U      T      S* 

^oftew  a  Trout.  Stuff  a  fmall  trout  with  grated 
bread,  a  piece  of  butter,  parfley  chopped,  lemon-peel 
grated,  'pepper,  fait,  nutmeg,  favory  herbs,  and  yolk  of 
egg,  mixed;  put  it  into  a  ftewpan  with  a  quart  of  good 

L  1 1  2  boiled 


444  T      R      O      U      T      S. 

boiled  gravy>  ibme  Madeirai  an  onioo,  a  licde  whole 
pepper,  a  few  cloves,  and  a  piece  of  lemon -peel;  ftcw 
it  in  thi6  genUf  dll  >^naugh  ^,  add  a  little  flour  mixed 
In  feme  crealt^  a  liftk  catcliupi  boil  it  lipj  fqueezc  ih 
ibme  kmoA  juice. 

To  trail  T  ROUTS.  Prepare  a  ragoo  with  muflirdoms, 
truffles,  fifh  rdes  and  pike's  livers  fried  browns  alfo  an 
anchovy  ahd  Ibme  fW6dt  he/bd,  and  a  few  capen.  Lay 
the  troutB  a  foaking  for  ibme  tkne^  and  afterwards  ferve 
|hem  up  with  lemon  juice. 

Or  you  may  brdad  them,  havii)g  cut  them  in  pieces, 
firft  fteeped  in  a  good  marinade  for  an  hour,  that  they 
may  take  the  whole  relilh ;  then  broil  Aem  over  a 
gende  fire,  fprinkle  them  with  lemon  juice. 

Another  way.  Gut  two  or  three  trouts  at  the  gilk, 
fcfapc  them,  wipe  them  and  lay  them  on  a  dreflfer,  and 
pafs  a  red  hot  fire-lhovcl  gently  over  themi  but  io  as 
hot  to  touch  them,  and  repeat  this  from  time  to  time; 
Ivhen  they  have  by  diis  means  been  well  hardened,  lard 
them  with  fmail  flips  of  bacon  in  rows,  then  hy  thin 
llices  of  bacon  in  the  bottom  of  anovalftewpan;  lay  the 
larded  trouts  in  order  upon  them,  and  kindle  a  litdc  fire 
underneath,  and  put  fome  light  coals  on  the  top  of  a 
cover,  to  give  the  filh  a  fin€  colour  j  you  muft  alio  ftir 
them  feveral  times  left  they  fhould  ftick  to  the  bottom. 

When  they  are  well  coloured,  take  away  all  the  ba- 
con, fbak  the  trouts  in  good  gravy,  with  a  little  wine  and 
an  onion  ftuck  with  cloves ;  ftew  all  gently  together, 
find  feafon  in  the  fame  pan;  when  they  are  almoft 
enough,  and  a  little  fauce  is  left,  put  mufhrooms,  truf- 
fles, and  all  forts  of  garniture  into  a  fitde  gammon  ef- 
fence,.  in  order  to  make  a  well-feafoncd  and  fomcwhat 

chick 


T      U      R     B      O      T.  441 

thick  ragoo;  dicn  drefs  the  trouts  in  ft  large  difh,  cither 
tof  an  oval  or  round  figure;  drain  off  all  tlie  fac,  and 
pour  die  ragoo  round  about.  You  may  garniih  tlit 
difli  with  artichoke  bottoms^  andouillets  or  fmall  trout 
coUops,  larded  and  ordered  like  thofe  of  foles. 

To  pot  Trovts.  Scale  and  clean  your  fifli  very  wcll> 
Walh  them  in  vinegar  and  flit  them  down  the  back, 
putting  fait  and  pepper  into  the  flit  and  on  the  out  fides  j 
then  lay  them  in  a  difli  for  three  hours,  and  after  that 
in  an  earthen  glazed  pan  with  pieces  of  butter  upon 
them;  then  fet  them  in  an  oven  for  two  hours,  if  the 
<routs  be  of  fourteen  inches  long,  tying  a  paper  oyer  the 
pan. 

When  they  come  out  of  the  oven  take  thcm.out  of 
the  liquor  and  put  them  in  a  pot,  and  as  foon  as  they 
are  quite  cold  pour  clarified  butter  over  them. 

You  may,  if  you  pieafe,  bone  them,  when  you  fplit 
their  backs. 

Trout  may  be  drefled  in  all  the  different  ways  of 
PsRCH, — which  fee. 


U      R      B      O      T. 

To  boil  a  TuRBOT.  Lay  it  in  a  good  deal  of  fait  and 
water  an  hour  or  two,  and  if  is  not  quite  fwect,  fhift 
your  water  five  or  fix  times ;  but  firft  put  a  good  deal  o^ 
fait  in  the  mbuth  and  belly. 

In  mean  time  fet  on  youriifli  kettle,  with  clean  (pring 
water  and  fait,  a  little  vinegar,  and  a  piece  of  horfe-radiih. 
When  the  water  boils,  lay  the  turbot  on  a  fifh-plate,  put 

it  into  a  kettle,  let  it  be  well  boiled,  but  take  great  care 

• 
It 


44^  T    U    R    B    O    T. 

it  is  not  too  much  done ;  when  enough,  take  oflF  tfac 
fifh-kettle,  fct  it  before  the  fire,  then  carefully  lift  up 
the  fifti-plate,  and  fct  it  acrofs  the  kettle  to  drain.  In 
the  mean  time  melt  a  good  deal  of  fi-efh  butter,  and 
bruife  in  either  the  fpawn  of  one  or  two  lobfters,  and 
the  meat  cutfmall,  with  a  fpoonful  of  anchovy  liquor; 
then  give  it  a  boil,  and  pour  it  into  balbns.  This  is 
the  beft  fauce ;  but  you  may  make  what  you  pleafe. 
Lay  the  fifli  in  the  dilh,  Gamifh  with  fcraped  horfe- 
radiih  and  lemon. 

Another  way.  Make  a  brine  with  a  handful  of  fait  or 
two,  and  a  gallon  or  more  of  water;  let  die  turbot  lie  in  it 
two  hours  before  it  is  to  be  boiled  j  then  fet  on  a  fifli- 
ketde,  with  water  enough  to  cover  it,  and  about  half  a 
pint  of  vinegar  (or  lefs  if  the  turbot  is  fmall)  \  put  in 
a  piece  of  horfe-radifh.  When  the  water  boils,  put  in 
the  turbot,  the'  white  fide  uppermoft,  on  a  fifh-plate. 
Let  it  be  done  enough,  but  not  too  m.uch,  which  wiU 
be  eafily  known  by  the  look,  A  fmall  one  will  take 
twenty  minutes ;  a  large  one,  half  an  hour.  Then 
take  it  up,  and  fet  it  on  a  fifn-plate  to  drain  before  it 
is  laid  in  the  dilli.  Sauce — lobfter  fauce  and  white- 
fauce. 

Another  way.  Make  a  brine  after  this  manner :  Boil 
two  quarts  of  water  for  about  an  hour  (more  or  lefs 
according  to  the  fize  of  the  filh)  with  bits  of  carrots, 
parfnips,  parQey  roots,  two  onions  diced,  two  ihallots, 
thyme,  laurel,  a  little  bafil,  and  a  good  deal  of  fait  j 
then  fift  the  brine,  and  boil  the  turbot  therein,  with  as 
much  milk  and  a  little  butter ;  fimmer  it  a  fufEcicnt 
time  on  a  flow  fire,  with  a  fifti-plate  under,  tliat  it  may 
drain  -,  and  fcrve  it  with  what  fauce  you  think  proper. 

Turbot 


T    U    R     B    O    T.  447 

TuRBOT  au  Court  Bouillon^  zvith  Capers.  Wafli  and 
dry  a  fmall  turbot,  then  take  fomc  thyme,  parflcy, 
Iwect  herbs,  and  an  onion  fliced  j  put  them  into  a  ftcw- 
pan,  then  lay  in  the  turbot  (the  ftewpan  fhould  be 
juft  large  enough  to  hold  the  fUh)  ftrew  over  the  fifli 
the  fame  herbs  that  are  under  it,  with  fome  chives  and 
fweet  bafil ;  then  pour  in  an  equal  quantity  of  white 
wine,  and  white  wine  vinegar  till  the  filh  is  covered  % 
then  ftrew  in  a  little  bay-falt,  with  fomc  whole  pep- 
per J  fct  the  ftewpan  over  a  gende  ftove,  incrcafing  the 
heat  by  degrees  rill  it  is  enough ;  then  take  it  off  the 
fire,  but  do  not  take  the  turbot  out ;  iet  a  faucepan  on 
the  fire  with  a  pound  of  butter,  two  anchovies  iplit, 
boned  and  walhed,  two  large  fpoonfuls  of  capers  cut 
fmall,  fome  chives  whole,  and  a  little  pepper,  fait, 
fome  hutmeg  grated,  a  little  flour,  a  ipoonful  of  vine- 
gar, and  a  little  water;  let  the  faucepan  over  the 
(love,  and  keep  (baking  it  round  for  ibme  time,  and 
fet  the  turbot  on  to  make  it  hot ;  put  it  in  a  difh,  and 
pour  fomc  of  the  fauce  over  it ;  lay  fome  horfe-radilh 
lound  it,  and  put  what  remains  of  the  fauce  in  a  boat. 

Soles,  flounders,  large  plaice,  or  dabs,  arc  very  good 
done  this  way. 

Turbot  a-ta-St.  MeneboulL  Half  boil  your  turbot 
in  water  and  a  little  white  wine,  with  a  piece  of  butter, 
fliced  carrots,  a  faggot  of  parfley,  four  cloves,  a  little 
whole  pepper,  and  half  a  handful  of  fait;  then  drain  it, 
Ikim  the  butter  off  the  liquor,  and  mix  it  with  the 
yolks  of  three  or  four  eggs,  and  a  litde  cuUis ;  thicken 
it  over  the  fire,  and  bafte  the  turbot  with  it ;  then  put 
it  on  the  dilh  you  intend  for  table,  ftrew  it  over  with 
bread-crumbs,    bafte  it  with  butter,   bake  it  jp  the 

ove» 


44»  T    U    R    B    O    f . 

oven  till  of  a  good  colour^  and  fcrve  with  a  rdifiung 
fauce* 

'  To  fry  a  Turbot.  Take  a  fmall  turbot,  and  cut  it 
aciofs  as  if  it  were  ribbed.  When  it  it  quite  dry,  flour 
\U  and  put  it  in  a  large  frying-pan,  with  boiling  lard 
enough  to  cover  it ;  fry  it  until  it  is  brown,  then  drain 
h  i  clean  the  pan,  put  into  it  claret  or  white  wine,  ,al- 
moft  enough  to  cover  it,  anchovy,  fait,  nutmeg,  and 
^  little  ginger  i  put  in  the  fi(h,  and  let  it  ftew  till  half 
*the  liquor  is  wafted  $  then  take  it  out,  and  put  in 
a  piece  of  butter  rolled  in  flour,  and  a  minced  lemon  -, 
let  them  fimmer  till  of  a  proper  thicknefi,  rub  a  hot 
difli  with  a  piece  of  (ballot,  lay  the  turbot  in  the  dUh, 
and  pour  the  fauce  over  it. 

To  bake  a  Turbot.  Take  a  difh  about  the  fizc  of  the 
turbot,  rub  butter  thick  all  over  it,  mix  a  litde  falt» 
beaten  pepper,  and  half  a  large  nutmeg,  fome  parfley 
minced  fine,  and  throw  all  overj  pour  in  a  pint  of 
white  wine  s  cut  off  the  head  and  tail,  lay  the  turbot 
m  die  difti,  pour  another  pint  of  white  wine  all  over, 
grate  the  other  half  of  the  nutmeg  over  it,  and  a  little 
pepper,  fome  (alt,  and  chopped  parfley.  Lay  a  piece 
of  butter  here  and  there  all  over,  alfo  throw  a  little 
flour  all  over,  and  then  a  good  many  cnjmbs  of  bread. 
Bake  it,  and  be  fure'that  it  is  of  a  fine  brown;  then 
lay  it  in  your  di(h,  ftir  the  fauce  in  your  di(h  all  toge- 
ther, pour  it  into  a  faucepan,  (hake  in  a  little  flour, 
let  it  boil,  ftir  in  a  piece  of  butter  and  two  fpoonfuls 
of  catchup ;  let  it  boil  again,  and  pour  it  into  bafons. 
Garnifti  your  di(h  with  lemons ;  and  you  may  add  what 
you  fancy  to  the  fauce,  as  (hrimps,  anchovies,  mu(h- 
rooms,  &c.  If  a  fmall  turbot,  half  the  wine  will  do. 
It  eats  findy  thus.    Lay  it  in  a  dllh,  (kirn  ofFaU  the 

a  fat, 


TURKEY.  449 

f$t,  md  pour  the  reft  over  it^  Let  it  ftand  till  cold> 
wd  it  18  good  with  vbegar,  and  a  fine  di(h  to  fet  out  a 
cold  tabic* 


<— y^T      ■■  * 


TURKEY. 

To  roqfi  a  Tu&kby.  A  middle  fized  one  mpiU  be  roafted 
in  an  hour.  M^ke  a  ftuffing  wid)  four  ounces  of  but« 
ter  or  chopped  fuet^  grafed  bread>  a  little  lemon-peel^ 
par(ky>  and  fweet  herbS)  chopped,  pepper,  fait,  and 
])uuneg>  a  little  cream  and  yolk  of  eggs  j  fill  the  craw 
with  this^  or  with  force-meat  i  paper  the  breaft  till  near 
done,  then  flour  and  bafte  it.  For  fauce — gravy  alone^ 
or  brown  c<dery  fauce,  pr  nuilhrooni  fauce.  For  a  tur«> 
Ipey-poult,  gravy  aAd  bread  fauce. 

Another  way.  The  beft  way  to  rpaft  a  turkey,  is  to 
loofah  the  ikin  on  the  breaft  of  the  turkey,  and  fill  it 
with  force*meat  made  thus :  Take  a  quarter  of  a  pound 
pf  beef  fuet,  as  many  crumbs  of  bread,  a  litde  lemon^ 
peel,  an  anchovy,  fomc  nutmeg,  pepper,  parfley,  and 
a  little  thyme.  Chop  and  beat  them  all  well  together, 
miK  them  with  the  yolk  of  an  egg,  and  ftufT  up  die 
breaft  %  when  you  have  no  fuet,  butter  will  do  j  or  you 
m^y  make  your  force-meat  thus :  Spread  bread  and 
butter  thin ;  and  grate  Ibme  nutmeg  over  it ;  when  you 
have  enough,  roll  it  up,  artd  ftuff  the  breaft  of  the  tur-. 
key  i  then  roaft  it  of  a  fine  tMX)wn,  but  be  fure  to  pin 
fome  white  paper  on  the  breaft  till  it  is  near  enoughs 
You  muft  have  good  gravy  in  the  difti,  and  bread-fauce 
made  thus :  Take  a  good  piece  of  crumb,  put  it  inta 
a  pint  of  water,  with  a  blade  or  two  of  mace,  two  or 

M  m  m  three 


450  T    U    R    IC    E    Y. 

thret  clovesy  and  fome  whole  pepper.  Boil  it  up  fife 
or  fix  times  j  then  with  a  fpoon  take  out  the  ^ice  yoQ 
had  before  put  in ;  and  then  you  niuft  pour  off  die 
water  (you  may  boil  an  onion  in  it  if  you  pleafe) ;  then 
beat  up  the  bread  with  a  good  piece  of  butter  and  a  lit- 
de  fair. 

Hen  turkeys  are  moftly  preferable  to  cocks»  for 
whitenefs  and  tendemefs ;  the  fmall  flefhy  ones  are  the 
moft  efteemed,  and  they  ought  to  be  kept  as  long  as 
the  weather  will  admit* 

Another  way.  Having  drefled  your  turkey,  trufe'  its 
head  down  to  the  legs,  and -make  your  force-meat^ 
which  muft  be  thus  prepared:  Break  a  penny-loaf  into 
crumbs,  Ihred  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  beef  fuet  very 
fine,  a  licde  iauiage  meat,  or  veal  minced  and  pounded^ 
and  feafon  to  your  taJle  with  pepper,  fait,  and  nutmeg< 
Mix  up  all  together  lighdy  with  three  eggs,  and  Ihiff  it 
into  the  craw*  Spit  it,  and  lay  it  down  to  a  good  fire^ 
which  muft  be  clear  and  brifk.  Singe,  duft  it  with 
flour,  and  bafte  it  feveral  times  widi  cold  butter,  which 
will  froth  it  much  better  than  the  hot  contents  of  the 
dripping-pan,  and  make  the  turkey  more  plump. 
When  it  is  properly  done,  renew  the  frothing  in  the 
fame  manner  as  before,  and  difh  it  up.  A  middle  fize 
turkey  may  be  down  at  the  fire  an  hour  and  a  quarter. 
Pour  into  your  dilh  your  fauce.  Serve  it  up ;  gar- 
niih  with  lemon  and  pickles. 

Sauce  for  a  Turkey.     Cuft  the  cruffcs  off  a  penny 

loaf,  cut  the  reft  in  thin  dices,  put  it  in  cold  water, 

with  a  few  pepper  corns,  a  litde  fait  and  onion ;  boil  it 

till  the  bread  is  quite  foft,  then  beat  it  well;  put  in  a 

-  quarter 


TURKEY;  451 

quarter  of  a  pound  of  butter,  two  fpoonfuls  of  thick 
cream,  and  ferve  it  in  a  baibn. 

Another  fauce.  Take  half  a  pint  of  oyfters,  ftrain 
the  liquor,  and  put  th^  oyfters  with  the  liquor  into  a 
faucepan  with  a  blade  or  two  of  mace ;  let  them  juft 
lump,  then  pour  in  a  glafs  of  white  wine ;  let  it  boil 
once,  and  thicken  it  with  a  piece  of  butter  rolled  in 
flour.  Serve  this  up  in  a  balbn  by  itfelf,  with  good 
gravy  in  the  dilh,  for  every  body  does  not  love  oyfter- 
fauce.  If  you  chafe  it  in  the  difh,  add  half  a  pint  of 
gravy  to  it,  and  boil  it  up  together.  This  fauce  is 
good  either  with  boiled  or  roaftcd  turkies,  or  fowls ;  but 
you  may  leave  the  gravy  out,  adding  as  much  butter  a« 
will  do  for  fauce,  and  garniihing  with  lemon.- 

To  boil  a  Turkey.  Let  die  turkey  be  trufled  for 
boiling ;  fet  on  the  pot  with  fome  water  and  fome  fait, 
a  large  handful  of  chopped  parfley,  and  four  or  five 
pepper  corns  \  when  it  boils,  put  in  the  turkey,  and 
let  it  boil  very  gently  till  it  is  enough,  but  be  very 
careful  it  is  not  done  too  much ;  when  it  Is  near  done, 
fet  on  a  faucepan,  with  a  piece  of  butter  rolled  in  flour, 
and  a  litde  water  5  cut  fome  parfley  very  fmall,  and  put 
into  it  a  thin  flice  of  garlic,  two  anchovies,  a  tea- 
ipoonful  of  lemon^peel,  cut  like  dice,  a  little  juice  qf 
lemon,  and  fome  fait.  Let  thefe  ftew  together,  and 
then  thicken  it.  Take  up  the  turkey,  and  pour  the 
fauce  over  it. 

Another  way.  Let  your  tuf  key  have  no  food  the  d^y 
before  you  kill  it ;  when  you  are  going  to  kill  it,  give 
it  a  fpoohful  of  allegar ;  it  will  make  it  white,  and  eat 
tender.  When  you  have  killed  it,  hang  it  vp  by  the 
legs  for  four  or  five  days  at  leaft  j   when  you  have 

M  m  m  a  pluckqd. 


452  TURKEY. 

plucked  it»  draw  it  at  the  rump ;  if  you  can  takt  die 
breaft-bone  out  nicely^  it  will  look  much  better.  Cut 
off  the  legs,  put  the  end  of  die  thighs  into  the  body  of 
the  turkey,  ikewer  them  down,,  ^and  tie  them  with  a 
ftring ;  cut  off  the  head  and  neck,  then  grate  a  penny^ 
loaf^  chop  a  fcore  or  more  of  Oyfters  fine,  ifared  a  little 
lemon-peel,  nutmegs  pepper  and  fait  to  your  palate. 
Mix  it  up  into  a  light  force-meat,  with  a  quarter  of  a 
pound  of  butter,  a  fpoonful  or  two  of  cream,  and  duw 
eggs ;  ftuff  the  craw  with  it,  and  make  the  reft  into 
balls,  and  boil  them.  Sew  up  the  turkey,  dredge  it 
well  with  floqr,  put  it  into  a  kettle  of  cold  water,  cover 
it,  and  fet  it  ever  the  fire.  When  the  fcum  begins  to 
rife,  take  it  off,  put  on,  your  cover,  and  let  it  boil 
very  flowly  for  half  an  hour  ^  then  take  off  your  ket- 
tle, a,nd  keep  it  ck)fe  covered.  It  it  be  of  a  nuddb 
fize,  let  it  (land  half  an  hour  in  the  hot  water,  the 
fteam  being  kept  in  will  flew  it  enough,  make  it  rife, 
keep  the  flcin  whole,  tender,  and  very  white.  When 
you  difh  it  up,  pour  over  it  a  little  of  your  oyfter-fauce, 
lay  your  balls  round  it,  and  ferve  it  up  with  the  reft  of 
your  fauce  in  a  boat.  Garnifti  with  lemon  and  barber- 
ries.—N.  B.  Obferve  to  let  on  your  turkey  in  time, 
that  it  may  fl6w  as  above :  it  is  the  beft  way  to  boil 
one  to  perfeftion.  When  you  are  going  to  dilh  it  up, 
fet  it  over  the  fire  to  make  it  quite  hot. 

Celery  Sauce  for  a  boiled  Turkey.  Take  the  white 
part  of  the  celery,  cut  it  about  one  inch  long ;  boil  it 
in  fome  water  till  it  is  tender,  then  take  half  a  pint  of 
veal  broth,  a  blade  of  mace,  and  thicken  it  with  a  lit- 
tle flour  and  butter  i  put  in  half  a  pint  of  cream,  boil 

them 


T    U    R    K    E    r.  4JJ 

Atfm  tip  gently  together  j  put  in  your  celery  and  boU 
it  up,  then  pour  it  into  your  boats* 

Turkey  i-h-iauhe^  to  hefent  up  hot.  Cut  the  tur- 
key down  the  back,  juft  enough  to  bone  it,  without 
fpoiling  the  look  of  it,  then  ftuff  it  with  a  nice  force* 
ttieat,  made  of  oyftcrs  chopped  fine,  cnlmbs  of  breads 
pepper,  fa!t,  (ballots,  a  very  little  thyme,  parfley,  and 
butter  I  fill  it  as  full  as  you  like,  and  few  it  up  with  ti 
thread,  tie  it  up  in  a  clean  cloth,  and  boil  it  very  white^ 
but  not  too  much.  You  may  ferve  it  up  with  oyfter- 
fauce  made  good  $  or  take  the  bones,  with  a  piece  of 
▼eal,  mutton,  and  bacon,  and  make  a  rich  gravy,  fea« 
Ibned  with  pepper,  fait,  ihallots,  and  alitde  bit  of  mace» 
ilnun  it  oflF  through  a  fieve,  and  ftew  your  turkey  in  it 
(after  it  is  half-boiled)  juft  half  an  hour,  dilh  it  up  in 
Ac  gravy  after  it  is  well  fkinruned,  ftrained,  and  thick- 
ened, with  a  few  muflirooms,  ftewed  white,  or  ftewed 
palates,  force-meat  balls,  fried  oyfters  or  fweetbreads, 
and  pieces  of  lemon.  Dilh  them  up  widi  the  breaft  up- 
wards. If  you  fend  it  up  garniflied  with  palates,  take 
care  to  have  them  ft?ewed  tender  firft.  Before  you  add 
them  to  the  turkey,  you  may  put  a  few  morels  and  truf- 
fles in  your  fauce,  if  you  like  it,  but  take  great  care  to 
wafh  them  clean. 

TvRKBY  i-la'daube,  to  be  fent  up  cold.  Bone  the 
turkey,  and  feafon  it  with  pepper  and  fait,  then  fpread 
over  it  fbme  dices  of  ham,  upon  that  fome  force-meatj 
upon  that  a  fowl,  boned  and  feafoned  as  above ;  then 
more  ham  and  force-meat,  and  few  it  up  with  thread  i 
cover  the  bottom  of  the  ftewpan  with  veal  and  ham, 
then  lay  in  the  turkey,  the  breaft  downj  chop  all  the 

bonei 


454  1"    U    R    K    E    Y; 

bones  to  pieces,  and  put  them  on  the  turkey ;  cover  the 
pan,  and  fet  it  on  the  fire  five  minutes ;  then  put  in  as 
much  clear  broth  as  will  cover  it,  let  it  boil  two  hours  i 
\vhen  it  is  more  than  half  done,  put  in  one  ounce  of 
ifingafs  and  a  bundle  of  herbs.  When  it  is  done 
enough,  take  out  the  turkey,  and  ftrain  the  jelly 
through  a  hair  fieve,  (kirn  ofi^  all  the  fat,  and  when  it  is 
cold,  lay  the  turkey  upon  it,  the  bread  down,  and  co- 
ver it  with  the  reft  of  the  jelly-  Let  it  ftand  in  fomc 
cold  place.  When  you  ferve  it  up,  turn  it  on  the  difli 
it  is  to  be  ferved  in.  If  you  chule,  you  may  fpread 
butter  over  the  turkey's  breaft,  and  put  fomc  green 
parfley  or  flowers,  or  what  you  pleafe^  and  iawhat  form 
you  like. 

To  ftrj)  a  Turkey  hown.  Bone  a  fmall  turkey  ; 
fill  it  with  force-meat  made  as  follows :  Take  half  a 
pound  of  veal,  and  the  meat  of  two  pigeons,  a  tongue 
out  of  the  pickle,  boiled  and  peeled ;  chop  all  thefe  in- 
gredients together,  and  beat  them  in  a  mortar,  widi 
fame  marrow  from  a  beef  bone,  or  a  pound  of  fuetfrom 
a  loin  of  veal ;  feafon  them  with  two  or  three  cloves, 
two  or  three*  blades  of  mace,  and  half  a  nutrpeg  dried 
at  the  fire  and  pounded,  with  fome  fait.  Mix  all  thefe 
well  together,  fill  the  turkey,  and  fry  it  of  a  fine  brown; 
put  it  into  a  pot  that  will  juft  hold  it,  lay  Ibme  fkew- 
crs  at  the  bottom  of  the  pot,  to  keep  the  turkey  from 
fticking  5  put  in  a  quart  of  good  beef  gravy,  cover  it 
clofe,  and  let  it  ftew  for  half  an  hour  very  gently  ;  then 
put  in  a  gl^fs  of  red  wine,  one  fpoonful  of  catchup,  a 
large  fpoonful  of  pickled  mulhrooms,  fome  truffles, 
pnorels  and  a  picge  of  butter  rolled  in  flour ;  cover  it 

dole 


TURKEY.  455 

tlofe,  ind'let  it  ftew  half  an  hour  longer.  Fry  fomc 
hollow  French  loaves;  then  take  fonic  oyfters,  ftew 
them  in  a  faucepan  with  a  bit  of  mace^  tlieir  liquor,  a 
little  white  wine,  and  a  piece  of  butter  rolled  in  flour ; 
let  them  ftew  rill  they  are  pretty  thick,  fill  the  loavea 
with  them  i  lay  the  turkey  in  the  dilh,  pour  the  faucc 
over  it,  and  lav  the  loaves  on  each  fide. 

Tojiew  a  Turkey  with  Celery.  Stuff  the  turkey  is 
when  ftcwed  brown  (leaving  out  the  oyfters)  or  with 
force-meat ;  boil  it  till  near  enough,  with  an  onion,  a 
little  whole  pepper,  a  piece  of  lemon -peel,  and  a 
bunch  of  fweet  herbs  in  the  water ;  have  fome  celery 
cut  into  lengths  and  boiled  till  near  enough  i  put  them 
into  fome  of  the  liquor  the  turkey  was  boiled  in,  lay  in 
the  turkey  breaft  downwards,  ftew  it  a  quarter  of  an 
hour,  or  till  it  is  done;  but  do  not  overdo  it.  Take 
it  up,  thicken  the  faucc  with  a  piece  of  butter  rolled  in 
flour,  and  fome  good  cream ;  add  fait  and-  kyan. 

Another  tvcty.  Take  a  large  turkey,  and  make  a  good 
white  force-meat  of  veal,  and  ftuflFthe  craw  of  the  tur- 
key J  Ikewer-  it  for  boiling,  then  boil  it  in  foft  water  till 
it  is  alnrK)ft  enough,  and  having  taken  up  your  turkey, 
and  put  it  into  a  pot  with  fome  of  the  water  it  was 
boiled  in,  to  keep  it  hot,  put  fcven  or  eight  heads  of 
celery,  that  are  waftied  and  cleaned  very  well,  into 
the  water  that  the  turkey  was  boiled  in,  till  they 
are  tender;  then  take  them  up,  and  put  in  your 
turkey  with  the  breaft  down,  ftewing  it  a  quarter  of 
^Xi  hour ;  then  take  it  up,  and  thicken  your  fauce  with 
half  a  pint  of  butter  and  flour  to  make  it  pretty  thick, 
an^i  a  quarter  of  a  pint  of  rich  cream,  adding  your 

celery 


456  TURKEY. 

cdery  i  pour  the  fauce  and  celery  hot  upon  the  turluy  V 
Jbreaft>  and  ferve  it  up.  It  is  a  proper  dilh  for  diDDer 
or  fupper. 

7o  roqft  a  Turkjy  the  genteel  way.  Cut  your  turkey 
down  the  back^  and  bone  it  with  a  ibarp  penknife; 
then  make  your  force-meat  thus :  Take  a  lai^  ibwlj 
or  a  pound  of  veal  j  as  much  grated  breads  half  a  pouod 
offueti  cut  and  beat  very  finej,'  a  litde  beaten  mace^ 
two  cioves>  half  a  nutmeg  grated,  about  a  large  tea- 
fpoonful  of  lemon-peel,  and  the  yplks  of  two  ^jgs  i  mix 
all  together  with  a  little  pepper  and  faltj  fill  up  the 
places  where  the  bones  came  out,  and  fill  the  body^ 
that  it  may  look  juft  as  it  did  before  j  few  up  the  bac^ 
and  roaft  it*  You  may  have  oyfter-Iauce,  celery -fiuice^ 
or  juft  as  you  pleafe.  Put  good  gravy  in  the  dilh»  and 
garnifh  with  lemon.     Be  fure  to  leave  the  pinions  on. 

Turkey  in  a  Braize  with  Chefnuts.  Lard  you  turkey 
with  a  few  large  iquare  pieces  of  bacon,  fealbned  with 
ft  litde  beaten  fpices,  pepper  and  (alt,  and  a  little  par- 
(ley;  take  a  pot  about  its  bignefs,  and  line  with  thin 
dices  of  bacon,  and  cover  it  with  the  fame  %  feafim 
pretty  high  with  onions,  carrots,  a  turnip  or  two,  fuch 
herbs  as. you  like,  a  little  fpice  and  pepper^  parfley» 
and  a  head  or  two  of  celery ;  fill  up  with  a  little  broth 
and  water  mixed,  cover  it  down  dole,  and  let  it  go 
gently  on  till  every  part  of  your  turkey  is  very  tender. 

N.  B.  This  braize  will  ferve  for  any  thing  tMk  the 
fame  day,  or  for  four  or  five  days  following.  We  Ihould 
firft  have  fpoke  of  preparing  the  chefiiuts,  by  blanch- 
ing, peeling,  and  putting  into  the  body  of  the  turkey, 
with  a  little  force-meat  in  the  crop,  and  (kewered  up  \ 
let  your  turkey  lay  in  the  braize  till  towards  dinner 

time  i 


-I 
.#1 


t    tJ    ft    K    E    t.  '457 

**  lime  J  and  now  prepare  your  ragoo ;  ^  take  a  thin  (lice  or 
two  of  boiled  ham,  a  veal  fweetbrcad,  the  yolk  or  two 
of  hard  eggs,  or  a  knot  is  better,  a  pickled  cucumber 
w  two,  or  two  or  three  mufhrooms,  cut  all  into  fmall 
dice,  and  put  ih  as  much  cullis  as  is  fuitable  for  your 
di(h ;  da(h  in  a  glafs  of  white  wine.  Boil  all  a  litde 
while,  throw  in  a  little  minced  parfley,  try  if  it  be  fea- 
foned  to  your  mind,  fqueeze  in  the  juice  of  fi  lemon, 
pour^'the  whole  over  your  turkey  well  drained,  and 
fcrve  it  up, 

A  couple  of  large  fowls  done  in  the  fame  manner 
fervcs  very  well  for  a  large  entree,  with  the  fame  faucb> 
only  leave  out  the  chefnuts. 

2i  TukicEY  in  ^Jelfy.  Bdil  a  turkey  or  a  fowl  as  white 
ias  you  can,  let  it  (land  till  cold,  and  have  ready  a  jelly 
made  thus :    Take  a  fowl,  fkin  it,  take  off  all  the  fat, 

.  do  not  cut  it  to  pieces,  nor  break  the  bones  j  take  four 
pounds  of  a  leg  of  veal,  without  any  fat  or  fkin,  put  it 
into  a  well-tinned  faucepan,  piit  to  it  foil  three  quarts 
of  watery  let  it  on  a  very  clear  fire  till  it  begins  to  fim- 
mer ;  be  fure  to  fkim  it  well,  but  take  great  care  it 
does  not  boil.  When  it  is  well  flcimmed,  fet  it  fo  as 
it  will  but  juft  feem  to  fimmer ;  put  to  it  two  large 

'  blades  of  mace^  half  a  nutmeg,  arid  twenty  corns  o( 
white  pepper,  a  little  bit  of  lemon-peel  as  big  as  a  fix- 
pence.  This  will  take  fix  or  feven  hours  doing.  When 
you  think  it  is  a  fl:iff  jelly,  which  you  will  know  by 
taking  a  litde  out  to  cool,  be  fure  to  fkim  off  all  the 
fat,  if 'any,  and  be  fure  not  to  ftir  the  meat  in  the  fauce- 
pan. A  quarter  of  an  hour  before  it  is  done,  throw  in 
a  large  tea-fpoonfol  of  fait,  iquecze  in  the  juice  of  half 
a  Seville  orange  or  lemon.  When  you  think  itts 
•   Vol.  II.  N  nn  enough^ 


45«  TURKEY. 

enou^y  ftraifi  it  (^through  a  ckan  fieve>  but  do  not 
pour  it  off  quite  to  the  bottom^  for  fear  of  ietdings. 
Lay  your  turkey  or  fbwl  in  the  diih  you  intend  to  leni 
it  to  die  table  in^  beat  up  the  whites  of  fix  ^gs  to  a 
fiotfai  and  put  the  liquor  to  it,  then  boil  it  five  or  fix 
minutes/  and  run  it  through  a  jelly^i-bag  till  it  is  quite 
clear,  pouring  the  liquor  over  it  s  let  it  (land  till  quite 
coM ;  colour  ibme  of  the  jelly  in  different  colours,  and 
when  it  is  near  cold,  with  a  fpoon  iprinkle  it  over  in 
what  form  or  fancy  you  pleafe,  and  lend  it  to  table.  A 
few  naftertium  Bowers  ftuck  here  and  there  look  pretty, 
if  you  can  get  them  s  but  lemon,  and  all  thofe  things, 
are  entirely  fancy. 

This  is  a  very  pretty  dilh  for  a  cold  collation,  or  a 
fupper.  AH  forts  of  birds  or  fowls  may  be  done  thia 
way. 

^  T  u  R  KEY  the  Italiaii  way.  Mince  the  liver  of  a  young 
turkey  very  fine,  with  fome  chopped  parlley,  and  two 
Qr  three  handfub  of  frefli  mufluooms,  ibme  pepper, 
0ilt,  and  more  than  an  ounce  of  butter  \  mix  thefe  well 
together,  and  put  them  into  the  body  of  the  turkey  % 
put  on  a  ftewpan  with  a  piece  of  butter,  fome  fhallots, 
fome  pepper  and  fait;  when  it  is  hot,  put  in  the  tur- 
key, turn  it  often  that  it  nuy  be  of  a  fine  brown,  and 
lay  it  to  cool ;  then  wrap  fome  fliccs  of  bacon  over  it, 
and  cover  it  all  over  with  paper;  put  it  upon  a  jfpit, 
and  lay  it  down  to  roaft.  For  fauce— cut  foMe  larg^ 
mulhrooms  very  fine>  with  twice  the  quantity  of  par- 
fley,  a  few  green  onions  cut  fmall.  Put  on  a  laucepan 
with  half  a  pint  of  white  wine ;  when  it  is  hot,  put  ia 
tliefe  ingredients;  add  fome  pepper  and  fait,  the  juice 
of  a  lemon,  two  cloves  of  garlic  whole ;  let  them  boil, 

and' 


T    U    R    K    E    Y.'  4S9- 

and  then  put  in  a  quarter  of  a  phit  of  rich  gravy,  and 
a  fmall  t^a^upfiil  of  oil  -,  let  all  boil  up  once  or  twice, 
then  take  out  the  garlic,  and  put  in  a  piece  of  butter 
rolled  in  flour. 

Lay  die  turkey  in  the  difti,  and  pour  the  fauce 
over  it. 

Turkey  in  a  hurry.  Trufs  a  turkey  with  the  1^ 
inward^and  flatten  it  as  much  as  you  can  j  put  it  in  St 
ftewpah,  with  melted  lard,  ciK>pped  parfley,  fliallots, 
muflu'ooms,  and  a  litde  garlic  s  give  it  a  few  turns  on 
the  fire,  and  add  the  juice  of  half  a  lemon  to  keep  it 
white :  then  put  it  in  another  fl:ewpan,  widi  flices  of 
veal,  one  iOlcc  of  ham,  die  melted  lard,  and  every 
thing  as  ufed  before,  adding  whole  pepper  and  fdt  % 
cover  it  over  with  flices  of  lard,  and  foak  it  about  half 
an  hour  on  a  flow  fire ;  dien  add  a  ^afi  of  white  wino 
and  a  litde  broth,  and  finifli  the  braizing  $  ikim  and 
flft  the  iauce,  add  a  little  cullis  to  mddce  it  a  lialbn  i 
reduce  it  to  a  good  confiftence,  and  ferve  upon  di« 
turkey. 

TuRKiES  i^er  the  Dutch  way.  Boil  them^  feafini 
them  with  ialt,  pepper,  and  cloves;  then  to  ev^ 
quart  of  broth  put  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  rice  or  ver- 
micelli. It  is  eat  with  fugar  and  cinnamon.  The  twa 
laft  nuy  be  left  out. 

TvVLVitY  puffed  after  the  Hamhurgh  way.  Take  one 
pound  of  beef,  three  quarters  of  a  pound  of  fuet,  mince 
it  very  fmall^  fcafon  it  with  fait,  pepper,  cloves,  mace, 
and  fweet  majpram  i  then  mix  two  or  three  eggs  widi 
it,  loofcn  the  fldn  all  round  the  turkey,  and  ftufl^it.-  It 
muft  be  roafted, 

*  ■ 

N  n  n  4  Ja 


4$Q  T    U    R    K    E    Y. 

.  fo  drefs  a  TvKKHY  or  Fozvl  to  perfe8J0n.  Bonetliem^. 
smd  make  a  force*meat  thus :  Take  the  flefh  of  a  fowl» 
cut  it  fmsdl^  then  take  a  pound  of  veal>  beat  it  in  a 
mortar,  with  half  a  pound  of  beef  fuet,  as  much, 
crumbs  of  breach  fome  mufhrooms,  truffles,  and  mo« 
rels,  cut  fmall,  a  few  fweet  herbs  and  parfley,,  with 
ibme  nutmeg,  pepper,  and  fait,  a*  little  miace  beaten, 
Ibmc  lemon-peel  cut  fine  j  mix  all  thefc  together  with 
the  yolks  of  two  eggs,  th^ri  fill  yOur  turkey,  and  roaft  it. 
This  will  do  for  a  large  turkey,  and  fo  in  proportion 
for  a  fowl.  Let  your  fauce  be  good  gravy,  with  mufh- 
rooms,  truffles,  and  morels  in  it ;  then  garniih  widi 
lemon,  and,  for  variety  fake,  you  may  lard  your  fowl 
Qr  turkey. 

•  Turkey  cohured.  Cut  a  turkey  in  two,  and  bone  it 
thoroughly;  make  a  gpod  force-meat  with  breaft  of 
roafted  fowl|  and  every  thing  as  already  repeatedly  di- 
XtdxA  i  lay  fome  of  it  upon  each  half  pretty  thick, 
then  lay  on  minced  ham,  gerkins,  truffles  or  muih- 
rooms,  or  both,  bacon  cut  into  dice,  hard  yolks  of 
eggs,  white  of  fowl,  a  few '  fweet  almonds,  and  pifta- 
chio-nuts ;  cover  thefc  again  with  fome  of  the  force- 
meat, roll  up  each  half,  wrap  them  in  ilices  of  bacon, 
and  fallen  them ;  put  them  in  a  brazing-pan  much  of 
their  own  bignefs,  with  good  broth,  half  a  pint  of 
•white  wine,  flices  of  veal  and  beef,  Iweet  herbs,  two 
or  three  IhaUots  or  cloves  of  garlic,  three  of  fpices, 
thyme,  and  laurel,  braze  them  on  a  flow  fire  about 
three  hours  5  let  them  cool  in  the  broth,  to  fcrve  cold 
upon  a  napkin,  ox  in  flices* — It  may  alfo  be  done 
yrhole,  and  equally  well* 


T-    U    RK    E    Y.  4^1 

•  /f  glazed  Turkey.  .  The  turjcey  muft  be  young, 
but  not  fmall.  When  it  is  picked,  drawn,  and  finged, 
l^y  it  a  little  while  over  a  clear  charcoal  fire,  but  turn 
it  often  i  have  ready  a  ragoo  of  fweetbreads,  take  off 
the  turkey,  Iplit  it  down  the  back,  fill  it  with  this  ra- 
goo, few  it  up,  and  lard  it  with  bacon  j  then  lay  at 
the  bottom  of  a  deep  ftcwpan,  firft  fome  dices  of  ham, 
dien  fome  flices  of  veal,  and  then  fome  dices  of  beef; 
lay  the  turkey  upon  thefe,  drew  oyer  fome  fweet  herbs, 
And  cover  them  clofe ;  let  thefe  ftew  over  a  dow  fire, 
,  When  they  are  enough,  take  off  the  ftewpan,  take  out 
the  turkey,  and  then  pour  into  the  turkey  a  little  good 
broth,  ftir  it  about,  and  drain  off  the  liquor  5  dcim  off 
the  fat,  fet  it  over  the  fire  again,  and  boil  it  to  a  jelly  1 
tjaen  p^t  in  the  turkey,  and  fet  the  pan  over  a  gentle^ 
fire  or  a  dove.;  it  will  foon  be  well  glazed ;  then  pow 
into  a  didi  fome  effence  of  ham,  and  then  put  in  the 
turkey. 

To  roaft  a  Turkey  with  Qray-fifh.  Take  a  young 
turkey,  in  Odober  or  November,  let  it  be  truded  as  for 
roading ;  make  fome  force-meat  with  fome  fat  bacon, 
fuet,  and  the  white  of  a  chicken,  all  cut  as  fine  as  pof- 
fible,  and  fome  fredi  mudiropms  minced  very  fine ;  mix 
thefe  ingredients  well  together,  with  fome  fait,  pepper, 
the  leaves  of  fweet  herbs  picked  clean,  from  the  d^ks, 
zfA  a  litde  grated  nutmeg ;  <;hop  them  all  together 
after  they  are  mixed,  then  boil  fome  crumbs  of  bread 
in  rich  cream,  put  it  to  the  force-meat ;  then  take  the 
yolks  of  two  new-laid  e^s,  beat  them  well,  and  mix 
the  force-meat  with  them  \  duff  the  crop  of  the  turkey, 
raife  the  flcin  a  little  upon  the  bread,  and  put  as  much 
gf  the  force-meat  as  will  go  in  without  tearing  it  5  if 

any 


462  TURKEY. 

any  is  left,  put  it  into  the  body,  and  with  it  a  ragoo  of 
f  ray-fifli  made  as  follows :  Wafli  fomc  cray-fifh^  and 
boil  them  in  water,  then  pick  out  the  tails  and  bo- 
dies ;  cut  fome  mulhrooms,  but  not  fmall,  fomc  truf- 
fles in  thin  flices,  fome  artichoke  bottoms  and  afpara- 
gus  tops,  boiled  and  cut  in  pieces ;  mix  all  thefe  toge- 
ther with  the  cray-fiih,  put  them  into  a  faucepan,  with 
a  piece  of  butter,  fomc  nutmeg  cut  in  flices,  pep- 
per, fait,  three  or  four  flices  of  lemon,  a  little  onion 
cut  fmall ;  let  thefe  all  fimmer  pver  a  flow  fire,  and 
when  enough,  puc  in  fome  cullis  of  cray-filh  to  thicken 
it.  Put  fome  of  this  ragoo  into  the  body  of  the  tur- 
key, tie  up  both  ends ;  flcewer  and  Ipit  it  for  roafting ; 
ftrew  fomc  ftuffing  over  it,  then  fome  flices  of  bacon, 
and  over  all  fomc  buttered  paper ;  let  it  have  a  good 
fire,  and  be  thoroughly  done.  When  it  is  enough, 
take  off  the  paper  and  bacon,  and  pour  over  it  the  reft 
of  the  ragoo. 

To  baJJj  a  Turkey.  Mix  fome  flour  with  a  piece  of 
butter,  ftir  it  into  fome  cream  and  a  little  veal  gravy  till 
it  boils  up  'f  cut  the  turkey  in  pieces,  and  not  too  finally 
but  take  off  all  the  flcin,  put  it  into  the  fauce,  with 
grated  lemon-peel,  white  pepper,  and  mace  pounded,  ar 
little  mulhroom  powder  or  catchup;  fimmer  it  up. 
Oyfters  may  be  added. 

Another  way.  Cut  the  remains  of  a  roafted  turkey 
properly ;  put  them  into  a  fliewpan,  with  a  glals  of  white 
wine,  chopped  parflcy,  ftiallots,  muflirooms,  truffles  (if 
wy)  fait  and  pepper,  two  fpoonfuk  of  cuUis,  and  a  litdc 
broth ;  boil  half  an  hour,  and  reduce  to  a  fliort  iaucc. 
When  iTady,  add  a  pounded  anchovy,  and  a  fquccze  of 
lemon ;  flcim  the  fauce  free  fi-om  fat,  and  fcrve  all  toge- 
ther. T  U  R- 


[    463    3 


TURTLE  AND  MOCK  TURTLE. 

To  drefs  Turtle  -the  fVeft  India  way.  Take  the  turtle 
out  of  the  water  the  night  before  yoii  dreis  it,  and  lay 
it  on  its  back.  In  the  morning  cut  its  head  off,  and 
hang  it  up  by  i^s  hind  fins  fof  it  to  bleed  till  die  blood 
is  all  out ',  then  cut  the  callipee,  which  is  die  belly, 
round,  and  raife  it  up ;  cut  as  much  meat  to  it  as  you 
can ;  throw  it  into  fpring  water  with  a,  little  fait,  cut  the 
fins  ofi^,  and  fcald  them  widi  the  head ;  take  off  all  the 
fcales,  cut  all  the  white  meat  out,  and  throw  it  into 
fpring  water  and  (lilt  -,  the  guts  and  lungs  muft  be  cut 
out.  Wafl;i  the  lungs  very  clean  from  the  blood,  then 
take  the  guts  and  maw  and  flit  them  open,  wafli  them 
very  clean,  and  put  diem  on  to  boil  in  a  large  pot  of 
water,  and  boil  them  till  they  are  tender.  Then  lake 
oB^  the  inCde  Ikin,  and  cut  them  in  pieces  of  two  or 
three  inches  long.  Have  ready  a  good  veal  broth  made 
as  follows :  Take  one  large,  or  two  fraall  knuckles 
pf  veal,  and  put  them  on  in  three  gallons  of  water  ^  led 
it  boil,  ikim  it  well,  feafon  with  turnips,  onions, 
rots,  and  celery,  and  a  good  large  bundle  of  fwefctr 
herbs  ;  boil  it  till  it  is  half  wafted,  then  (train  it  off. 
Take  tlie  fins,  and  put  them  in  a  ftewpan,  coyer  them 
with  veal  broth,  feafon  with  an  onion  chopped  fine,  all 
forts  of  fweet  herbs  chopped  very  fine,  half  an  ounce  of 
cloves  and  mace,  half  a  nutmeg  beat  very  fine ;  ftew  it 
very  gently  till  tender ;  then  take  the  fins  out,  and  put 
in  a  pint  of  Madeira  wine,  and  ft^w  it  for  fifteen  mi- 
JiUtes.     Beat  up  the  whites  gf  fix  eggs  with  the  juice 

of 


4^4  T    tj    1^    f    L    E. 

of  two  lemons,  put  the  liquor  in  and  boil  it  up,  run  it 
through  a  flannel  bag,  Hiakc  it  very  hot,-  walh  the  -fins 
very  clean,  and  put  them  in.  Take  a  piece  of  butter 
and  put  at  the  bottom  of  a  ftewpan,  put  your  white 
meat  rn,  and  fweat  it  gently  till  it  is  almoft  tender. 
Take  the  lungs  and  heart,  and  cover  them  with  veaJ 
broth,  with  an  onion,  herbs,  and  fpice ;  as  for  the  fins, 
ftew  them  till  tender ;  take  out  the  lungs,  ftrain  the 
/liquor  ofF,  thicken  it,  and  put  in  a  bottle  of  Madeira 
wine,  feafon  with  kyan  pepper  and  fait  pretty  high ; 
put  in  the  lungs  and  white  meat,  ftew  them  up  gendy 
for  fifteen  minutes ;  have  foitie  force-meat- balls  made 
out  of  the  white  part  inftead  of  veal,  as  for  Scotch  col- 
lops.  If  any  eggs,  fcald  them;  if  not,  take  twelve 
hard  yolks  of  eggs,  made  into  egg  balls.  Have  your 
callipafh,  or  deep  Ihell,  done  mund  the  edges  witn 
pafte,  feafon  it  in  the  infide  with  kyan  pepper  and  fair, 
and  a  litde  Madeira;  bake  it  half  an  hour,  then  put  in 
the  lungs  and  white  meat,  force-meat,  and  eggs  over, 
and  bake  it  half  an  hour.  Take  the  bones,  and  three 
quarts  of  veal  broth,  feafoned  with  an  onion,  a  bundle 
of  fweet  herbs,  two  blades  of  mace;  ftew  it  an  hour, 
ftrain  it  through  a  fieve,  thicken  it  with  butter  and 
flour,  put  in  half  a  pint  of  Madeira  wine,  ftew  it  half 
an  hour ;  feafon  with  kyan  pepper  and  fait  to  your  lik- 
ing. This  is  the  foup.  Take  the  callipee,  run  your 
knife  between  the  meat  and  fliell,  an'd  fill  it  full  of 
of  force-meat ;  feafon  it  all  over  with  fweet  herbs  chop- 
ped fine,  a  fh allot  chopped,  kyan  pepper  and  lalt,  and  a 
little  Madeira  wine;  put  a  pafte  round  the  edge,  arid 
bake  it  an  hour  and  a  half.  Take  the  guts  and  maw, 
j)ut  therri  in  a  ftewpan,  with  a  little  broth,  a  bundle  of 
7f  '  fweec 


T    U    R    T    t.    £•  4^5 

fweet  herbsj  two  blades  of  mace  beat  fine  t  thicken 
ivith  a  little  butter  rolled  in  flour  i  flew  them  gently  for 
half  an  hour^  feafon  with  kyan  pepper  and  falt^  beat 
up  the  yolks  of  two  eggs  in  half  a  pint  of  cream,  put 
it  in,  and  keep  ftirring  it  up  one  way  till  it  boils  up> 
then  diih  them  up  as  follows : 

Callipee. 
Fricallee#  Soup.  Fing. 

Cailipaflu 

The  fins  cat  fine  when  cold,  put  by  in  the  liquor. 

To  drefs  d  Turtle  of  about  thirty  pounds  weights 
When  you  kill  the  turtle>  which  muft  be  done  the  night 
before,  cut  ofF  the  head,  and  let  it  bleed  two  or  three 
hours  I  then  cut  off  the  fins,  and  the  callipee  fi-om  the 
callipafh  $  take  care  you  do  not  burfl  the  gall;  throw 
all  the  inwards  into  cold  water,  the  guts  and  tripe  keep 
by  thenifelves,  and  flip  them  open  with  a  penknife, 
wafh  them  very  clean  in  fcalding  water^  and  fcrapc  off 
all  the  inward  fkin ;  as  you  do  them,  throw  them  into 
cold  water,  wafh  them  out  of  that  and  put  them  into 
fi^fh  water,  and  let  them  lie  all  night,  fcalding  the  fins 
and  edges  of  the  callipafh  and  callipee;  cut  the  meat  off 
the  fhoulders,  and  hack  the  bones,  and  fet  them  over 
the  fire  with  the  fins  in  about  a  quart  of  water :  put  in 
a  little  mace,  nutmeg,  kyan,  and  fait  i  let  it  flew  about 
three  hours,  then  ftrain  it,  and  put  the  fins  by  for  ufe. 
The  nejct  morning  take  fome  of  the  meat  you  cut  off 
the  fhoulders,  and  chop  it  fmall,  as  for  faufages,  with 
about  a  pound  of  beef  or  veal  fuet;  feafon  with  nuce^ 
nutmeg,  fweet  marjoram,  parfley,  kyan,   and  fait  to 
your  tafle,  and  three  or  four  glaffes  of  Madeira  wine, 
fo  fluff  it  under  the  two  flefhy  parts  of  the  meat  i  and 
..Vol.  II,     ^  Ooo  if 


46«  t    O    R    T    L    E.  ' 

if  you  have  any  left,  lay .  it  6vcr  to  pf event  the  iMik 
from  burning ;  then  cut  the  rertisdnder  df  the  meat  and 
fins  Iti  pieces  the  fize  of  an  egg ;  feafon  it  pretty  high 
\vith  kyan,  fait,  arid  a  little  nutmeg,  and  put  it  into  the 
callipafli  i  take  care  that  it  be  fewed  or  lecurcd  up  at 
the  end,  to  keep  in  the  gravy  5  then  boU  up  the  grtvy', 
and  add  more  wine,  if  required,  and  thicken  it  a  little 
with  butter  and  flour  -,  put  fbme  of  it  to  the  turde,  and 
fct  it  in  the  oven  with  a  well-buttered  paper  over  it  to 
ke(ip  it  from  burning,  and  ^hen  It  is  ^bout  half  baked, 
iqueeze  in  the  juice  of  one  or  two  lemoils,  and  iUr  it 
tip.  Callipafh,  or  back,  will  takk  half  an  hour  more 
baking  thaii  the  caUipee,  which  two  hoUrs  will  do.  The 
guts  muft  be  cut  In  pieces  two  or  three  hicties  kMig» 
tripes  in  lefi,  and  put  into  a  itiug  of  clear  water,  iUid 
let  in  the  oven  with  the  callipafh,  and  whM  it  is  enough 
drained  from  the  Water,  it  is  to  be  mixed  with  iStit  other 
parts,  and  feftt  up  very  hot. 

Another  wav.  When  the  turtle  is  killed,  cttt  A^ 
back  fix)m  die  belly,  and  wafh  it  cleah  from  tilt  blood 
in  three  or  four  waters,  with  fbme  fait.  Cut  die  fins 
from  the  back,  fcald  and  fcrape  them  clean  from  the 
fcales ;  put  the  meat  in  a  faucepan,  with  a  littk  ial^ 
and  rather  more  water  than  will  cover  it  j  let  it  ftew, 
but  fkim  it  very  tlean  all  the  time.  If  die  turtle  k 
large,  put  into  it  a  botde  of  white  wine ;  if  (hiail,  a 
pint  will  do.  The  wine  mufl  not  be  put  in  dU  it  has 
frewed  an  hour  and  a  half,  and  the  fctf m  has  done 
rifing«  If  the  wine  is  put  in  before,  it  wiS  make  the 
turde  hard.  Put  into  it,  whilfl  it  is  fleWingi  aft  OittOfl 
Or  two  fhred  fine,  with  a  little  thyme,  parflcy,  blade 
pepper,  and  fait,  when  it  is  ftewcd  Very  tender^  tkk^ 

it 


TURTLE.  4^7 

talse  it  out  of  the  iduc«pan>  and  9ut  it  into  fmaU 
pieces  i  waih  the  bwJc  Ibell  very  clean  from  the  bloQ<L 
ihcft  rub  it  with  pepper,  fait,  thyme,  parflcy,  and 
ipiiioQ$  ihred  fine,  and  mi^ed  together  j  pi^t  the  meat 
ii^o  the  fhell,  with  a  layer  of  feaibning  between  every 
layer  of  meat  tiU  the  (heU  is  ^Us  cover  it  with  Iea(bn* 
ing.  If  it  i«  a  large  turtle,  two  pounds  of  butter  muft 
be  oit  into  bits^  and  laid  between  the  feaibning  and  the 
meat.  The  foup  mu^  be  thickened  with  butter  rollo) 
in  flour*     A  liu'gc  turde  will  take  an  hour  and  tfi 

haJfl 

Jbuaber  W0f.  Mrt  Vo'ral  (ays,  he  gives  the  £)llow« 
jag  receipt  from  his  own  experiepc^  i  Let  its  head  be 
chopped  off  clc^e  to  dae  ihell,  fet  it  on  dut  part  diat 
idl  the  blood  may  run  aw^iyi  have  plenty  of  water  in 
iev^  pails  or  tubsi  lay  your  fifh  upon  the  back  qr 
/(allipaihj  cut  off  the  under  ihell,  or  callipee,  in  die 
'iirft  line  or  partidon,  from  die  edge  of  die  callipaflis 
cake  off  dia^  and  immediatdy  put  it  into  ytrater.  Nei^t 
cut  off  the  four  ^s  in  the  flioukler  and  aich-bona 
joints^  and  put  intS  water  too,  and  with  a  cjcaver  chop 
out  the  booes  from  the  friQukiers  and  hinder  parts,  and 
put  to  the  reft.  Take  out  your  guts  and  tripe  deao^ 
and  the  other  entrails^  and  lay  your  callipalh  in  water 
while  you  prepare  your  caUipee^  which  flv>uld  be  done 
as  follows ;  Cut  o|r  all  fuperQuous  bits  &j:  your  foup^ 
and  trim  it  neady.  Cut  little  holes  in  the  thick  flefb, 
with  the  point  of  your  knife ;  lay  it  in  a  dilh,  and  ibak 
(t  well  in  Madeira  wine,  and  feaib^  with  kyan  pepper 
(but  not  too  much)  a  Uttle  fait,  pknty  of  ihallot  and 
parfley  minced  and  ftrewed  upon  it.  Ne^i^t  take  the 
cjlUipq^fh^  ^d  order  in  the  fame  monnei:  \  firft  cutting 

O002  off 


46S  T    U    R    1*    L    E. 

off  the  fheU  to  the  crcafe  on  the  other  fide  of  the  edge, 
and  put  a  neat  rim  of  pafte  quite  round,  and  adorn' it 
well;  pour  a  little  cuUis  round,  and  fqueezc  the  juice 
of  fome  lemons  or  oranges  s;  and  they  are  ready  for 
your  oven.  The  common  way  is  to  put  Ibmc  of  the 
flelh  into  the  callipafii  i  but,  in  my  c^inon,  it  is  beft 
to  put  none.  The  next  to  be  made  ready  is  your  fins 
and  head ;  blanch  them  till  you  can  take  off  the  outer 
ikin;  trim  them,  and  put  them  into  a  ftewpsm  with 
the  head ;  pour  in  fbme  Madeira,  a  ladle  of  broth,  a 
.  pinch  of  kyao>  a  fmall  bundle  of  onions,  herbs,  and 
fhaOots,  and  ftew  them  tender  with  a  h'ttle  fait,  and 
it  is  ready ;  the  two  biggeft  fins  for  one  difli,  and  the 
head  and  two  fmalleft  for  another.  Now  cut  the  fide 
fiiells  m  pieces,  and  blanch  them  fo  that;  you  may  take 
out  the  griftles  or  jelly  part  whole.  While  this  is  do- 
ing, prepare  the  tripe  or  guts  widi  a  fharp  knife ;  flit 
them  from  end  to  end,  and  care  muft  be  taken  that  all 
is  waflied  and  fcraped  clean;  cut  them  into  pieces 
about  two  inches  in  length,  and  blanch  them.  When 
your  broth  is  made  of  the  flelh,  to  the  tripe  in  a  ftew- 
pan  put  as  much  as  will  cover  it ;  put  in  a  branch  of 
herbs,  with  an  onion  or  two,  a  couple  of  whole  flial- 
lots,  fome  mace,  and  a  litde  fait ;  ftew  all  till  pretty 
tender ;  take  out  the  herbs,  &c.  and  put  butter  and 
flour  to  thicken  it ;  provide  a  liafon  as  for  a  fricaflee  of 
chickens,  and  at  your  dinner-time  tols  it  up  with  the 
juice  of  lemon  or  orange,  and  it  is  ready.  Next  take 
the  jellies  of  your  fide  fliells,  and  prepare  for  a  difli 
done  in  the  fame  manner  as  the  fins  and  heads ;  Iqueeze 

in  fome  juice  of  orange  or  lemon,  and  it  is  ready. ;- 

And  now  for  the  foup.    Moft  of  which  that  I  have 

fccn^ 


TURTLE.  46J 

(een  or  tailed  has  been  poor  infipid  ftuiF;  to  fay  why 
it  was,  is  faying  lefs  than  nothing.  The  whole  matter 
is,  to  fliew  how  it  nnay  be  made  good ;  thus  then  cut 
all  the  fleih  from  the  bones  into  fmall  pieces,  and  to 
about  a  pound  of  meat  put  a  quart  of  water,  and  to  five 
or  fix  quarts,  a  pint  of  Madeira.  Take  care  that  it  is 
well  (kimmed.  Tie  up  in  a  bit  of  linen  three  or  four 
onions,  Ibme  bits  of  carrot,  a  leek,  ibme  herbs  and 
parflcy,  with  two  or  three  pinches  of  kyan,  and  let  it 
boil  with  the  meat,  and  fait  according  to  your  taftc. 
Let  it  fimmer  ah  hour,  or  a  litde  more,  and  fend  it  up 
in  a  tureen  or  foup-dilh,  only  the  meat  and  the  broth. 

Thefe  fevcn  dilhes  make  a  pretty  firft  courfe ;  the 
callipafii  and  callipee  at  top  and  bottom,  fbup  in  the 
middle,  and  the  other  four  the  corners. 

^0  drefs  a  Mock  Turtle.  Take  the  largefl:  oalfU 
head  you  can  get,  with  the  fldn  on,  put  it  in  (balding 
water  till  you  find  the  hair  will  come  ofi^  clean  it  wellj 
and  wafli  it  in  warm  water,  and  boil  it  three  quarteri 
of  an  hour.  Then  take  it  out  of  the  water,  and  flit  it 
down  the  face,  cut  oIF  all  the  meat  along  with  the  flcin 
as  clean  from  the  bone  as  you  can,  and  be  careful  you 
do  not  break  the  ears  ofi^.  Lay  it  on  a  flat  diflij  and 
fl:ufF  the  ears  with  force-meat,  and  tie  them  round  with 
cloths.  Take  the  eyes  out,  and  pick  all  the  refl:  of  the 
meat  clean  fi-om  the  bone,  put  it  in  a  tofling^pan,  widi 
the  niceft  and  fatted  part  of  another  calf  s  head,  without 
the  flcin  on,   boiled  as  long  as  the  above,   and  three  < 

quarts  of  veal  gravy.     Lay  the  fl^in ,  in  the  pan  on  the  J 

meat,  with  the  flefti-fide  up,  cover  the  pan  clofe,  and 
let  it  ftew  over  a  moderate  fire  one  hour  1  then  put  in 
three  fweetbreads,  fried  ^  litlic  brown^  one  ounce  of 
f  morelsg^ 


470  T    U    R    T    L    E. 

sxirelsy  the  fame  of  mi£3es,  fiire  articfaoke  betMw 
bdkMi  one  anchdvy  boned  and  chopped  finally  a  tet- 
fpoonfo)  of  kyan  pepper^  a  little  fait,  half  a  leinoii, 
Ar^  pints  of  Madeira  wine,  two  meat  ipoonfuls  of 
pmiihroom  catchup,  one  of  lemon  pickle,  and  half  i 
liint  of  mufhfooms.  Let  them  ftew  (fewly  half  an  bom 
longer,  and  thicken  it  with  ilour  and  bucter.  Havna 
ready  the  yolka  of  four  eggs  boiled  hard»  and  the 
brains  of  both  heads  boiled  i  cut  the  brains  the  fi»  of 
nutmegs,  and  make  a  rich  ibrce-meat,  and  fpread  it 
on  the  caul  of  a  leg  of  veal,  roll  it  up,  and  boil  it  in  f 
cloth  one  hour^  When  boiled,  cut  it  in  throe  pait», 
Ibe  middle  largeft  s  then  take  up  the  meat  imp  ch^  difb^ 
and  lay  the  head  over  it  with  the  (kin  fide  up,  and  pyc 
the  largeft  piece  of  fbrce-'meat  between  the  ears,,  anci 
Slake  the  top  of  the  ears  to  meet  round  it  (thit  is 
faUed  die  cmwn  of  the  turtle),  lay  the  other  Oic€$  of 
ibe  force-0ieat  oppofoe  to  each  other  at  the  narrov 
pdp  and  lay  a  few  of  the  truffles,  morels,  brains,  mu&« 
sooms,  eggs,  and  artichoke  bottoms  upoo  the  face,  aa^ 
found  it  i  flraiit  the  gravy  boiling  hot  upon  it,  9e  a^ 
quick  in  dilhing  it  up  as  poffihle»  for  it  fi^n  grow$ 

Another  woy.  Take  a  calfs  head,  and  icald  oflT^ 
iuir^  as  from  a  pig  %  then  clean  it,  cut  off  the  horny 
part  in  thin  ilices,  with  as  litde  of  the  lean  as  poffible  y 
^hop  the  brains ;  have  ready  between  a  quart  and  three 
pints  of  ftrong  mutton  or  veal  gravy,  witi  a  quart  of 
Madeira  wine,  a  lai^  tea  fpoonful  of  kyan,  a  large 
^ion  cut  very  fnnalJ,  half  the  peel  of  a  lar^  lemon 
flired  as  fine  as  pofllble,  a  litde  (alt,  the  juice  of  four 
lenoons,  and  fome  fweet  herbs  cut  imadl.    Stew  all  liitS^ 

to- 


^■i^^"T»^ 


VEAL.  47t 

together  till  the  head  is  ray  tender.  Let  them  ftew 
about  an  hour  and  a  half  ^  Acn  have  ready  die  \miL 
ihell  of  a  turde>  lined  with  a  pafte  made  of  flour  and 
water,  which  muft  firft  be  fet  in  the  oven  to  harden^ 
then  put  in  the  ingr^ients^  and  let  it  in  die  oven 
to  brown  i  when  that  is  done>  lay  die  yolka  of  egg^ 
boiled  hard,  and  force-meat  balls  round  the  top« 

Some  parboil  die  head  the  day  bdfoitj  take  out  die 
bone^  and  then  cut  it  into  flices« 

Mock  TvKTht:  from  Calves  Feei.  Provide  two  calvtit 
feet  and  one  chicken  i  cut  them  into  pieces  of  a  proper 
fize  for  a  fHcaflee ;  make  the  feafbning  widi  three  lat^ 
onions,  a  large  handful  of  parfley,  and  a  few  iweet 
herbs ;  chop  them  all  together,  then  feafon  the  meat* 
Xiet  die  calves  feet  ftew  two  hours  and  a  half  in  three 
quarts  of  water;  then  put  in  the  chicken;  let  it  ftew 
hatf  an  hour.  Then  take  the  juice  of  two  lemons,  « 
tea^upful  of Maddra  wine,  fome  kyan  pepper;  put 
that  in  laft.  Let  it  ftew  all  together  half  an  hour,  auA 
ferve  it  up  m  a  foup-difh* 

Force-meat  balls  of  veal  may  be  laid  at  top,  and  hard 
eggs. 


mm 


V    E    A    U 

To  marinade  a  Sreaft  o/Vial.  i  Cut  the  breaft  of  veal 
in  pieces;  ftew  it  in  broth  till  about  three  quarters 
done;  then  marinade  about  an  hour  with  two  ipoonfuls 
of  vinegar,  a  litde  of  its  own  broth,  whxAt  pepper  and 
£dtj  four  cloves,  two  cloves  of  garlic,  fliccd  onions, 

and 


4^4  VEAL* 

and  thyme;  then  drain  it,  and  fry  of  a  good  cobun 
Gamilh  with  fried  parilcy.  You  may  alfo  do  it  with  a 
batter,  or  bafte  it  with  bread-crumbs  and  yolks  of  eggs, 
and  fry  it  as  above. 

A  Ragoo  of  a  Breafi  0/ Veal.  Half  roafl:  the  bcft  end 
of  it,  flour  it  and  ftew  it  gently  with  three  pints  ofgood 
gravy,  an  onion,  a  iew  cloves,  whole  pepper,  and  a  bit  of 
lemon-peer;  turn  it  while  ftewing  5  when  very  tender, 
ftnun  the  iauce ;  if  not  thick  enough,  mix  a  litde  more 
flour  fmooth;  add  catchup,  kyan,  truiBes,  mortis, 
and  pickled  mufhrooms ;  boil  it  up,  put  in  hard  ydks 
©feggs. 

Another  way.  Half  roaft  a  bread  of  veal,  then  bone 
it,  and  put  it  into  a  tofling-pan,  with  a  quart  of  veal 
gravy,  one  ounce  of  morels,  the  fame  of  truffles ;  ftew 
it  till  tender,  anci  juft  before  you  thicken  the  gravy,  put 
in  a  few  oyfters,  pickled  mufhrooms  and  pickled  cu- 
cumbers, cut  in  fmall  fquare  pieces,  the  yolks  of  four 
eggs  boiled  hard ;  cut  your  fweetbread  in  flices,  and 
fry  it  a  light  brown  \  difli  up  your  veal,  and  pour  the 
gravy  hot  over  it ;  lay  your  fweetbread  round,  morels, 
truffles,  and  eggs  upon  it.  Garnilh  with  pickled  bar- 
berries. This  is  proper  for  either  top  or  fide  for  din- 
ner, or  bottom  for  fuppen 

Put  your  veal  into  a  large  ftewpan,  with  a  bUhdle  of 
Iweet  herbs,  an  onion,  fomc  black  and  white  pepper,  a 
blade  or  two  of  mace,  two  or  three  cloves,  a  very  little 
piece  of  lemon-peel,  and  juft  cover  it  with  water. 
When  it  is  tender,  take  it  up,  bone  it^  put  in  the 
bones,  boil  it  up  till  the  gravy  is  very  good,  then  ftrain 
it  off,  and  if  you  have  a  little  rich  beef  gravy,  add  a 
quarter  of  a  pint ;  put  in  half  an  ounce  of  truffles  and 

morels. 


.Jl 


"VEAL.  473 

mor^ls^  a  ipooufbl  Dr  two  of  catcfaup>  two  or  thret 
fpoonflik  of  white  wine,  and  let  diem  ail  boil  together : 
in  die  mean  time  floiv  the  veal>  and  fry  it  in  butter  till 
it  Is  of  a  fine  farolvny  then  drain  out  ail  the  butter,  and 
pour  t&e  gravy  you  are  boifing  to  the  "v^al  with  a  few 
fmifhrooBfis.  Boil  all  together  till  the  fiiuce  is  rich  and 
thick,  aad  cut  the  fweetbread  into  fi^tir.  A  few  jforce^ 
meat  balls  are  proper  in  it*  Lay  the  veal  in  a  difli^ 
and  pour  the  i^uce  all  over  it«    Garnifh  with  lemocu. 

Ch*  tfaos:  Half  road  a  breaft  of  veal,  then  cut  it  id 
iquare  pieces ;  put  it  into  allewpan,  with  half  a  pint 
of  gravy,  a  pint  of  water,  a  bundle  of  iweet  herbs,  an 
onion  fhick  with  cloves,  a  little  mace,  and  flew  it  tifl 
it  h  tender;  then  take  it  out,  and  pull  out  all  the 
bones,  flrain  the  gravy  through  a  fieve,  then  pot  it 
into  the  ftewpan  again,  with  a  ipoonful  of  muftard, 
ibme  truffles  and  mords,  a  fweetbread  cut  in  pieceaj^ 
an  artichoke  bottom,  about  twenty  Ibrce-meat  bfl^ 
ibme  butter  rolled  in  £bur>  enough  to  thicken  it.  Box 
it  up  till  it  is  of  a  proper  thicknefs  i  ieaibn  it  with  pep- 
per and  fftk,  then  put  in  your  veal,  ftew  it  for  five  mi* 
nutes  J  add  the  juice  of  half  a  lemon,  then  pour  your 
meat  into  the  dtih,  the  ragoo  all  over  it.  Garnilh  with 
lemon  and  beet-root. 

7i  Jizv  a  Breqfi  of  Veal  in  its  own  fima.  Pot  a 
breaft  of  veal  into  a  ftewpan  of  its  own  length,  with  a 
lictle  broth,  a  glals  of  white  win^  a  faggot  of  fweet 
herbs,  a  few  mufhrooms,  a  litde  coriander  tied  in  a 
bag,  (Iked  roots,  onions,  pepper^  and  fait;  ftew  it 
flowly  till  very  tender.  When  ready  to  ferve,  ^xnix 
and  (kim  the  fauce,  and  ferve  it  upon  the  meat. 

Vol.  11.  Ppp  BmH 


« k 


474  VEAL. 

Breafi  of  Veal  ftewid  white.  Cut  a  piece  off  cadK 
end ;  make  a  fiirce-meat  as  follows :  Boil  the  fweet* 
brea4»  and  cut  it  very  fmalU  ibme  grated  bread,  a  little 
beef  fuet,  two  eggs,  a  littfe  cream,  fbme  nutmeg,  (alt 
and  pepper ;  mix  it  >  well  together,  and  (hiff  the  thin 
part  of  die  breaft  with  fome  of  it,  the  reft  make  up 
into  litde  balls ;.  ikewer  the  fkin  clofe  down,  flour  and 
boil  it  in  a  cloth  in  milk  and  water ;  make  fbme  gravy 
of  the  ends  that  were  cut  off,  with  half  a  pint  of  oyf- 
ters,  the  juice  of  a  lemon,  and  a  piece  of  butter  rolled 
in  flour  \  when  the  veal  is  enough,  put  it  in  the  difli. 
Garnilh  with  the  balls  ftewed,  and  pour  the  iauce  over 
It. 

Breaft  of  Vzal  JUwed  with  Teas  or  AJparagus.  Cut 
it  into  pieces  about  three  inches  in  fize,  fry  it  nicely  ; 
mix  a  litde  flour  with  fome  beef  broth,  an  onion,  two 
or  three  cloves;  flew  this  fome  time,  flrain  it,  add 
three  pints  or  two  quarts  of  peas,  or  ibme  heads  of  af^ 
paragus  cut  like  peas ;  put  in  the  meat,  let  it  flew  gent* 
ly ;  add  pepper  and  fait. 

Breaft  0/ Veal,  Italian  fajhion.  Scald  it,  then  flew  it 
over  a  flow  fire,  with  broth  and  a  little  white  wine,  a 
ipoonful  of  oil,  two  flices  of  peeled  lemon,  whole  pep- 
per and  fait,  a  faggot  of  fweet  herbs,  two  onions  fhick 
with  four  cloves,  one  clove  of  garlic,  and  a  litde  bafil. 
When  done,  wipe  the  fat  clean  off,  take  the  Ikin  off 
the  griftle,  or  leave  it  on,  juft  as  you  pleafe.  Serve  it 
with  an  Italian  fauce. 

Breaji  of  Veal  in  Hodgepodge.     Cut  the  brifket  into 

little  pieces,  and  every  bone  afunder,  then  flour  it,  and 

put  half  a  pound  of  good  butter  into  a  ftewpan ;  when 

,it  is  hot,  throw  in  the  veal>  fiy  it  all  over  of  a  fine  light 

brown. 


mm 


VEAL.:  475 

brown,  and  then  have  ready  a  tta-ketde  of  water  boil- 
ing; pour  it  in  the  ftewpan,  fill  it  up,  and-ftir  it 
round ;  throw  in  a  pint  of  green  peas>  a  fine  lettuce 
whole,  clean  wafhed,  two  or  three  blades  of  mace,  a 
little  whole  pepper  tied  in  a  muflin  rag,  a  litde  bundle 
of  fweet  herbs,  a  fmall  onion  ftuck  with  a  few  clove$> 
and  a  little  fait.  Cover  it  clofe,  and  let  it  ftew  one 
hour,  or  till  it  is  boiled  to  your  palate,  if  you  would 
have  foup  made  of  it  i-^if  you  would  only  have  fauce  to 
eat  with  the  veal,  you  muft  ftew  it  till  there  is  juft  aa 
much  as  you  would  have  for  lauce,  and  feafon  it  with 
fait  to  your  palate  5  take  out  the  onion,  fweet  herbs^ 
and  fpice,  and  pour  it  all  tc^ether  into  your  dilh.  It 
is  a  fine  difh.  If  you  have  no  peas,  pare  three  or  four 
cucumbers,  fcoop  out  the  pulp,  and  cut  it  into  litde 
pieces,  and  take  four  or  five  heads  of  celery,  clean 
waihed,  and  cut  the  white  part  fmall  \  when  you  have 
ho  lettuces,  take  the  little  hearts  of  favoys,  or  the  lit- 
tle young  fprouts  that  grow  on  the  old  cabbage  ftalk% 
about  as  big  as  the  top  of  your  thumb. 

N,  B.  If  ypu  would  make  a  very  fine  dilh  of  it,  fill 
the  infide  of  your  lettuce  with  force-meat,  and  tie  the 
top  clofe  with  a  thread  i  ftew  it  till  there  is  but  juft; 
enough  for  fauce ;  fet  the  lettuce  in  the  middle,  and 
the  veal  round,  and  pour  the  fauce  over  it.  Garnifti 
your  dilh  with  rafped  bread,  inade  into  figures  with 
your  fingers.  This  is  the  cheapeft  way  of  drefling  ai 
t^reaft  of  veal  to  be  good,  and  ftrvc  a,  number  of 
people. 

Xo  (oUar  a  Breaft  ofViiAi.  Take  a  fine  breaft  of 
veal,  bone  it,  and  rub  it  over  with  the  yolks  of  two 
eggs,  and  ftrew  over  it  feme  crumbs  of  bread,  a  litde 

P  p  p  z  grated 


[ 


47*  VEAL. 

grated  lemon^  a  iitde  jttppcr  and  fale^  a  handful  of 
dhoppcd  parfley^  roll  it  up  tight,  and  bind  it  hard  with 
r^ine  $  wrap  it  in  a  cloth>  and  boil  it  one  hour  and  a 
half  5  then  take  it  up  to  cool :  when  a  Kttle  coW^ 
take  off  the  clothe  and  clip  off  the  twine  carefuUy^  left 
you  open  the  veal ;  cut  it  in  five  flicea>  lay  them  on  a 
diih  with  the  fweetbread  boiled  and  cut  in  thin  fllces, 
and  laid  round  them,  with  ten  or  twelve  force-meat 
balls  5  pour  over  your  white  fauce,  and  gamifli  with 
barberries  or  green  pickles^. 

The  white  fauce  muft  be  made  thus:  Take  a 
pint  of  good  veal  gravy,  put  to  it  a  fpoonfiil  of  lemon 
pickle,  half  an  anchovy,  a  tea-fpoonful  of  mufhroom 
powder,  or  a  few  pickled  mulhrooms  -,  give  it  a  gentle 
boil,  then  put  in  half  a  pint  of  cream,  the  yolks  of 
two  eggs  beat  Bne  $  (hake  it  over  the  fire  after  the  eggs 
and  cream  are  in,  but  do  not  let  it  boil,  it  will  curdle 
the  cream.  It  is  proper  for  a  top  difli  at  night,  or  a 
fide  dilh  for  dinner. 

The  Grijiles  of  a  Breafi  of  Vial  with  a  white  Sauce. 
About  the  half  of  a  bread  of  veal  will  do  for  this 
fmall  diih ;  take  off  all  the  upper  part,  and  xxit.  the 
griftles  in  fmall  bits,  blanch  them,  and  put  into  a  flew- 
pan  to  a  ladle  of  broth  $  ftew  it  very  tender,  and  put  a 
bit  of  butter  mixed  with^fiour,  a  bunch  of  onions  and 
parfley,  a  blade  of  mace,  pepper  and  fait.  For  your 
fauce,  you  may  prepare  eidier  peas,  or  asparagus ; 
make  a  liafon  i^  and  juft  htioct  you  ferve,  pour  it  hi  j 
add  the  juice  of  a  lemon,  and  diih  it  up. 

Breafts.  of  lamb  are  done  in  the  fame  manner,  and 
make  an  deganc  dilh. 


VEAL.  Iffy 

fb  rag(^  a  Neck  qf  Veal.  Cut  a  neck  of  veal  into 
fteaks,  flatten  them  with  a  rolling-pin,  feafbn  thenni 
with  fait,  pepper,  cloves,  and  mace  j  lard  them  widi 
bacon,  lemon-peel,  and  thyme  5  dip  them  in  the  yolks 
of  eggs,  make  a  fliect  of  ftrong  cap-paper  up  at  the 
four  corners,  in  the  fprm  of  a  dripping-pan  5  pin  up 
the  corners,  butter  the  paper  and  alfo  the  gridiron,  and 
fct  it  over  a  fire  of  charcoal ;  put  in  your  meat;  let  it 
do  leifurely,  keep  it  bafting  and  turning  to  keep  in  the 
gravy  5  and  when  it  is  enough,  have  ready  half  a  pint 
of  ftrong  gravy  -,  feaibn  it  high,  put  in  mufhrooms  and 
pickles,  force-meat  balls  dipped  in  the  yolks  of  eggs, 
oyfters  ftewcd  and  fried  to  lay  round  and  at  the  top  of 
your  difli,  and  tfien  fervc  it  up.  If  for  a  brown  ragoo, 
put  in  red  wine  i  if  for  a  white  one,  put  in  white  wine, 
with  the  yolks  of  eggs  beat  up  with  two  or  three  fpoon^ 
fills  of  cream. 

Neck  of  Veal  and  Jharp  Sauce.  Make  a  marinade 
with  butter  and  a  litde  flour,,  fliced  onions,  roots,  and 
a  litde  coriander-feed,  one  clove  of  garlic,  three  Ipice 
cloves,  thyme,  laurel,  balil,  pepper,  and  fait;  warm 
it,  and  put  in  it  a  larded  neck  of  veaP;  let  it  lie  in  die 
inarinade  about  two  hours,  then  wrap  it  in  buttered  pa«* 
per,  and  roaft  itj  and  ferve  with  a  poivrade-  or  fliarp 

iauce. 

J' 

Neck  ofYthLjlewed  with  Celery.  Take  the  beft  end 
of  a  neck,  put  it  into  a  ftewpan  with  fome  beef  broth, 
or  boiling  water,  fome  fait,  whole  pepper,  and  cloves, 
tied  in  a  bit  of  muflin,  an  onion,  a  piece  of  lemon- 
peel  ;  ftew  this  till  tender ;  take  out  the  fpicc  and  peelt 
put  in  a  little  cream  and  flour  mixed,  fom^  celery  ready 
boiled  and  cut  into  lengths ;  boil  it  up. 

Neck 


^S  V    E    A    L. 

Neck  of  Yt Ah  a-la-hraife.  Lard  die  beft  end  imh 
bacon  rolled  m  parfley  chopped,  pepper,  fait,  and  niit- 
meg ;  put  it  into  a  ftewpan,  and  cover  it  with  water ; 
put  in  the  fcrag-end,  with  a  little  lean  bacon  or  a  bit 
of  ham,  an  onion,  two  carrots,  fbme  ihallots,  a  head 
or  two  of  celery,  and  a  litde  Madeira  i  let  thefe  ilew 
gently  for  two  hours,  or  till  tender  3  ftrain  the  liquor, 
mix  a  litric  butter  with  fome  flour,  ftir  it  in  a  ftcw- 
pan  till  it  is  brown ;  lay  in  the  veal,  the  upward  fide 
to  the  bottom  of  the  pan,  let  it  do  a  few  minutes 
till  it  is  coloured  j  lay  it  in  the  difli,  ftir  in  fome  more 
liquor,  boil  it  up,  and  fqueeze  in  orange  or  lemon 
juice. 

Bomharded  Veal.  Cut  out  of  a  fiUet  of  veal  five 
lean  pieces,  as  thick  as  your  hand,  round  them  \ip  a 
little,  then  lard  them  very  thick  on  the  round  fide  with 
little  narrow  thin  pieces  of  bacon,  and  lard  five  Iheepa^ 
Uingues  (being  firft  boiled  and  blanched)  very  neatly, 
lerc  and  there  with  very  little  bits  of  lemon-peel,  and 
make  a  well-feafoncd  force-meat  of  veal,  bacon,  ham, 
beef  fuet,  and  an  anchovy  beat  well ;  make  another 
tender  force-meat  of  veal,  beef  fuet,  mufhrooms,  Ipi- 
nach,  parfley,  thyme,  fweet  marjoram,  winter  lavory, 
and  gre^  onions,  Sealbn  with  pepper,  fait,  and  mace, 
beat  it  well,  make  a  round  ball  of  the  other  force-meat^ 
and  ftuflf  in  the  middle  of  this,  roll  it  up  in  a  veal  caul, 
and  bake  it ;  what  is  left,  tie  up  like  a  Bologna  fau* 
fage,  and  boil  it,  but  firft  rub  the  caul  with  the  yolk 
of  an  egg;  put  the  larded  veal  into  a  ft^wpan  mth 
fome  good  gravy,  and  ftew  it  gently  till  it  is  enough  \ 
fkimofi^the  fat,  put  in  fome  truffles  and  morels,  and 
fome  mufhrooms.      Your  force-meat    being   bakect 

enough,^ 


VEAL.  47JI 

^ough,  lay  it  in  the  middle,  the  veal  round  it,  and 
the  tongues  fried,  and  laid  bw.'#lje#;  the  boiled,  cut 
into  dices,  and  fried,  and  ihrow  all  over.  Put  on 
them  the  fauce.  You  oiay  add  aiiSdioke  bottoms, 
Iweetbreads,  and  cock*s-combs,  if  you  pleafe.'^-  Garnifli. 
with  lemon. 

Veal  Olives.  Make  a  good  force-meat,  cut  l^»-gc 
thin  dices  of  fillet  of  veal,  bade  them  ^ith  eggs,  roll 
force-meat  in  them  to  what  bignefs  you  pleafe,  and  bind 
them  with  yolks  of  eggs.  If  for  dewing,  tie  cadi 
with  packthread  j  dew  dowly  with  white  wine  and  cul- 
lis,  a  feggot  of  fweet  herbs,  a  few  cloves  and  diallots  | 
when  done,  flcim  and  fift  the  fauce  to  ferve  upon 
them.  If  you  mud  road  or  bake  them,  cut  dices  of 
bacon  of  the  fame  Cze  with  the  veal ;  upon  each  dice 
of  bacon  put  a  dice  of  veal,  with  force-meat,  and  bade 

« 

widi  eggs  and  bread-crumbs  i  when  ready,  ferve  with 
what  fauce  you  think  proper.     Olives  may  be  nutde  <rf 
what  forts  of  meat  you  pleafe,  after  the  fame  manner^ 
'  ferving  with  different  fauces. 

Another  way.  Take  a  fillet  of  veal,  and  having  cut 
off  large  coUops,  hack  them  well  with  the  back  of  a 
knife;  fpread  very  thinly  force-meat  over  each  of 
them,  and  roll  them  up  and  road  them,  or  bake  them 
in  an  oven.  Make  a  ragoo  of  oyders  and  fweetbreads 
cut  in  fquare  bits,  a  few  mudirooms  and  morels,  and 
lay  them  in  the  didi  with  the  rolls  of  veal.  If  you  have 
oyders  enough,  chop  and  mix  fome  of  them  with  the 
force-meats,  as  it  will  add  much  to  its  goodnels.  Put 
nice  brown  gravy  into  the  didi,  and  fend  them  up  hot^ 
with  force-meat  balls  round  theni, 

I  VKAt 


d^so  y  £  A  iu 

Veal  OUws  i-U^madi.  Take  two  pounds  of  vealj. 
fiune  marroWf  two  aachovicf,  the  yolks  of  two  hard 
tgg^,  t  few  mufhroom^  and  fbme  oyfters^  a  litde 
thynie>  snujoran^^  parfley,  Ipinach,  leaion-ped,  fidi^ 
fcfp&r,  mitntei;,  and  mace  finely  beaten  i  take  your  veai 
caul.  Jay  a  layer  of  bacon  and  a  layer  of  the  ingre- 
dien&Si  roll  it  in  the  veal  caul^  and  either  roaft  it  or 
fake  it.  An  hour  will  do  either.  When  enou^  cut 
it  into  dices,  lay  it  into  your  diib,  and  pour  good  ^avj 
0>irer  it»    Garniih  with  lemon. 

FiUel  of  Veal  Jewed.  Stuff  it,  half  bake  it  with  a 
little  water  in  the  di/h,  then  ftew  it  with  the  liquor  and 
fomc  good  gravy,  and  a  little  Madeira :  when  enough, 
thicken  it  with  flour ;  add  catchup,  kyan,  a  Iktie  &Jttj 
juice  of  orange  or  lemon  j  boil  it  up. 

To  ragoo  u  FiUet  of  Veal.  Lard  your  fillet  and  half 
roaft  it,  then  put  it  in  a  tofllng.pan,  with  two  quarts  of 
good  gravy  5  cover  it  cloft,  and  let  it  ftew  till  tender, 
then  add  one  fpoonful  of  white  wine,  one  of  browning, 
one  of  catchup,  a  tca-lpoonfol  of  len[K>n-pickle,  a  littk 

caper  liquor,  half  an  ounce  of  morels ;   thicken  with 

• 

flour  and  butter,  and  lay  round  it  a  few  yolks  of  eggs. 
Leg  //Veal  with  white  Sauce.  Lard  a  leg  of  veal 
with  laige  pieces  of  bacon,  let^it  fbak  twelve  hours  m 
marinade  made  after  this  nmnner :  A  piece  of  but<» 
ter  and  fk>ur,  a  quart  of  milk,  two  lemons  peeled  and 
diced,  fix  fhallots,  two  cloves  of  garlic,  fix  onioas 
fliced,  eight  cbves,  three  laurel-leaves,  thyme  and' 
parfley,  whole  pepper  and  (ak.  Warm  the  marinade, 
and  put  it  into  a  pot  much  about  the  bignefs  of  the  veal  1 
wipe  it  dry  before  Ipitting,  and  cover  it  with  flices  of 
lard  and  two  fhcets  of  paper,  or  with  buttered  paper 
alone  5  and  fcrve  with  poivrade,  or  a  cream  lauce  made 

of 


V    E    A    U  481 

of  a  piece  of  butter  and  flour,  a  chopped  anchovy, 
chopped  parfley  and  ihallots,  grated  nutmeg,  pepper, 
and  fait,  and  as  ipuch  cream  as  neceflary.  When 
ready  to  ferve,  add  the  juice  of  a  lemon.  It  may  alf<i 
be  done  without  larding. 

Leg  of  Veal  daubed  a-la-tnode'.  It  is  larded  and 
brazed  with  all  forts  of  roots  and  Ipices;  reduce  the 
fauce  to  a  jelly,  and  ferve  it,  with  it,  either  hot  or 
cold. 

A  Leg  of  Veal  in  Dijguife.  Lard  the  top  fide  of  a 
1^  of  veal  in  rows  with  bacon,  and  flufF  it  well  with 
force-meat  made  of  oyfters ;  then  put  it  into  a  largQ 
fauccpan,  with  as  much  water  as  will  cover  it,  put  on 
a  clofe  lid  to  keep  in  the  fleam ;  flew  it  gendy  till  quite 
tender,  then  take  it  up  and  boil  down  the  gravy  in  the 
pan  to  a  quart ;  fkim  off  the  fat,  and  add  half  a  le- 
mon, a  fpoonful  of  mufhroom  catchup,  a  little  lemon- 
pickle,  the  crumbs  of  half  a  penny-loaf  grated  exceed- 
ing fine,  boil  it  in  your  gravy  till  it  looks  thick,  then 
add  half  a  pint  of  oyflers ;  if  not  thick  enough,  roll  a 
lump  of  butter  in  flour,  and  put  it  in,  with  half  a  pint 
of  good  cream,  and  the  yolks  of  three  eggs  5  fhakc 
your  fauce  over  the  fire,  but  do  not  let  it  boil  after  the 
eggs  are  in,  left  it  curdle ;  put  your  veal  in  a  deep  difh, 
and  pour  the  face  over  it.  Garnifh  with  crifped  parfley 
and  fried  oyflers.  It  is  an  excellent  difh  for  the  the  top 
of  a  large  table. 

Tojiew  a  Knuckle  of  Veal.  Be  fure  you  let  the  pot 
x>r  faucepan  be  very  clean,  lay  at  the  bottom  four 
clean  wooden  fkewers,  wafh  and  clean  the  knuckle  very 
well,  then  lay  it  in  the  pot  with  two  or  three  blade* 
of  mace,  a  little^hite  p^per,  a  little  piece  of  thyme. 
Vol.  IL  Q  q  q  fmall 


482  V    E    A    L. 

finall  onion,  a  cruft  of  bread,  and  two  quarts  of  water. 
Cover  it  down  clofe,  make  it  boil,  then  only  let  it  fim- 
mer  for  two  hours,  and  when  it  is  enough,  take  it  up, 
lay  it  in  a  dilh,  and  ftrain  the  broth  over  it. 

Shoulder  of  Yzal  a-la-Fiedmontoife.  Cut  die  (kin  off 
a  ihoulder  of  veal,  fo  that  it  may  hang  at  one  end  5 
then  lard  the  meat  with  bacon  and  ham,  and  feafon  it 
with  pepper,  fait,  mace,  fweet  herbs,  parfley,  and  le- 
mon-peel. Cover  it  again  with  the  Ikin,  ftew  it  with 
gravy,  and  when  it  is  juft  tender  enough,  take  it  up  j 
then  take  fome  forrel,  fome  lettuce  chopped  fmall, 
and  ftew  them  in  fome  butter,  with  parfley,  onions,  and 
muftirooms.  The  herbs  being  tender,  put  to  them 
fome  of  the  liquor,  fome  fweetbreads,  and  fome  bits  of 
ham.  Let  all  ftew  together  a  little  while,  then  lift  up 
the  Ikin,  lay  the  ftcwed  herbs  over  and  under,  cover  it 
again  with  the  fkin,  wet  it  with  melted  butter,  ftrew  it 
over  with  crumbs  of  bread,  and  fend  it  to  the  oven  to 
brown.  Serve  it  up  hot,  with  fome  good  gravy  in  the 
difh.  The  French,  before  it  goes  to  the  oven,  ftrew 
it  over  with  Parmefan  chcefe. 

A  flioulder  of  veal  may  be  drefled  in  every  re(pe6t 
and  fafliion  as  the  leg. 

A  Harrico  of  Veal.  Take  a  neck  or  breaftofvcal 
(if  the  neck,  cut  the  bones  fliort)  and  half  roaft  it  j 
then  put  it  into  a  ftewpan  juft  covered  with  brown 
gravy,  and  when  it  is  near  done,  have  ready  a  pint  of 
boiled  peasj  fix  cucunjbers  pared,  and  two  cabbage- 
lettuces  cut  in  quarters,  ftewed  in  brown  gravy,  with  a 
few  force-meat  balls  ready  fried  j  put  them  to  the  veal, 
and  let  them  juft  fimmcr.   When  die  veal  is  in  the  dilh, 

pour 


m^^tW 


VEAL.  483 

pour  the  fauce  and  the  peas  over  it,  and  lay  the  let-* 
tuce  and  balls  round  it. 

Loin  of  Veal  in  Epigram,  tiaving  roafted  a  fine 
loin  of  veal,  take  it  up,  and  carefully  take  the  fkin  off 
the  back  part  of  it  without  breaking ;  cut  out  all  the 
lean  meac,  but  mind  and  leave  the  end  whole,  to  hold 
the  following  mince-meats :  mince  all  the  meat  very 
fine  with  the  kidney  part,  put  it  into  a  litde  veal  gravy, 
enough  to  moiften  it,  with  the  gravy  that  comes  from 
,  the  loin;  put  in  a  little  pepper  and  fait,  fome  lemon* 
peel  fhred  fine,  the  yolks  of  three  eggs,  a  fpoonful  of 
catchup,  and  thicken  it  with  a  litde  butter  rolled  in 
flour ;  give  it  a  fhake  or  two  over  the  fire,  and  put  it 
into  the  loin,  and  then  pull  the  fkin  over.  If  the  fkin 
fhould  not  quite  coVer  it,  give  it  a  brown  with  a  hot 
iron,  or  put  it  into  an  oven  for  a  quarter  of  an  hour. 
Send  it  up  hot,  and  garnifh  with  barberries  and 
•  lemon. 

Veal  Szveetbreads.  Sweetbreads  are  very  ufefiil  in 
"many  diflies,.  as  in  pies,  ragoos,  fricaffees,  &c.  and  to 
ufe  alone,  either  Tried,  roafted,  broiled,  or  otherwifc. 
They  muft  be  foaked  in  warm  water  an  hour  or  tw:o, 
then  fcalded  about  an  hour  or  two  in  warm  water,  which, 
is  commonly  called  fetting  or  blanch ingy  which  will 
make  them  keep  longer,  and  are  ready  for  any  ufe  you 
pleafe  to  put  them  to.  . 

To  roajl  Sweetbreads  with  Afparagus.  Two  good 
fwcet breads  are  enough  for  this  fmall  difh ;  blanch 
them,  and  lay  them  in  a  marinade,  fpit  them  tight 
upon  a  lark-fpit,  and  tie  them  to  another,  with  a  flice 
of  bacon  upon  each,  and  covered  with  pepper ;  when 
almoft  done,  take  that  off,  and  pour  a  drop  of  butter 

Qjq  q  2  upon 


4*4  V    E    A    L. 

upon  them,  with  a  few  crumbs  of  bread,  and  roait 
them  of  a  nice  colour  j  take  two  bunches  of  afparagus, 
and  boil,  not  fo  much  as  to  boil  to  eat  them  with  but- 
ter 5  difli  up  your  iweetbreads  and  your  grafs  between- 
them  r  take  a  little  cullis  and  gravy,  with  a  bit  of  fhal- 
lot  and  minced  parfley ;  boil  it  a  few  minutes,  Iqueezc 
in  the  juice  of  a  lemon  or  orange,  and  fefve  it  up. 

Forced  Sweetbreads.  Put  three  fwectbreads  in  boil* 
ing  water  five  minutes,  beat,  the  yolk  of  an  egg  a  little, 
and  rub  it  over  them  with  a  feather  j  ftrew  on  bread- 
crumbs, lemon-peel,  and  parfley  Ihred  very  fine,  nut- 
meg, fait,  and  pepper  to  your  palate ;  fct  them  before 
the  fire  to  brown,  and  add  to  them  a  L'ttle  veaJ  gravy ; 
put  a  littde  mufhroom  powder,  caper  liquor,  or  juice 
of  lemon,  and  browning ;  thicken  it  with  flour  and 
butter,  boil  it  a  little,  and  pour  it  into  your  dilb  j  lay  it 
in  your  fweetbreads,  and  lay  over  them  lemon-peel  in 
rings,  cut  like^  flraws.     Garnifh  with  pickles, 

Szveethreads  as  Hedge-hogs.  Scald  the  fweetbreads,  and 
lard  them  with  ham  and  truffles,  cut  in  Irnall  pieces ;  fiy 
a  fliort  time  in  butter ;  let  the  pieces  ftick  out  a  litde 
to  make  the  appearance  of  bridles  j  fimmer  them  in 
the  fame  butter,  with  broth  and  a  litde  white  wine, 
very  litde  fait  and  pepper  5  when  done,  Ikim  and 
ftrain  the  fauce;  add  a  little  cullis,  and  ferve  upon 
them.  You  may  alfo  ufe  any  other  fauce,  as  fweet- 
breads arc  of  an  inCpid  tafte  of  themfelves,  obferve,  as 
a  general  rule,  ta  ferve  a  (harp  relifliing  fauce  with 
them,  either  cuUis-fauce,  fricafTee,  or  fweet  herbs. 

To  ragoo  Szveetbreads.  Rub  them  over  with  the  yolk 
of  an  egg,  flrew  over  them  bread-crumbs  and  parfley, 
thyme,  and  fweet  marjoram,  fhred  fmall,  and  pepper 
and  lalt :  make  a  roll  of  force-meat  like  a  fweetbread, 

-aad 


u     ^ 


V    E    A    t.  4$ 

and  put  It  in  a  veal  caul,  and  roaft  them  in  a  Dutch 
oven  J  take  fome  brown  gravy,  and  put  to  it  a  little 
lemon-pickle,  mulhroom  catchup,  and  the  end  of  a  le-- 
mon;  boil  the  gravy,  and  when  the  fweetbreads  ar6  . 
enough,  lay  them  in  a  dilh,  with  a  force-meat  in  the 
middle ;  take  the  end  of  the  lemon  out,  and  pour  the 
gravy  into  the  difli,  and  ferve  them  up. 

Another  way.  Parboil  them,  rub  them  with  the  yolk 
of  an  egg,  ftrew  on  bread-crumbs,  lemon-peel,  nut- 
meg, pepper,  and  fait  i  roaft  them  in  a  Dutch  oven ; 
thicken  fome  good  gravy  with  a  little  flour  \  add  catch- 
up, kyan,  and  a  little  juice  of  lemon:  boil  this  up, 
pour  it  to  the  fweetbreads*  Artichoke  bottoms  may 
be  added,  cut  in  quarters.  Cut  lemon  or  orange-peel 
like  ftraws,  for  garnilh. 

Sweetbreads  a-la-Pauphine.  Take  the  largeft  fweet- 
breads you  can  get,  and  lard  them ;  open  them  in  fuch 
a  manner  that  you  can  ftuff  in  force-meat ;  three  will 
make  a  fine  difli.  Make  your  force-meat  with  a  large 
fowl,  or  young  cock ;  Ikin  it,  and  pluck  off  all  the  fle/hi 
take  half  a  pound  of  fat  and  lean  bacon,  cut  thefe 
very  fine,  and  beat  them  in  a  mortar ;  fcafon  it  with 
an  anchovy,  fome  nutmeg,  a  little  lemon-peel,  a  very 
little  thyme,  and  fome  parfley ;  mix  thefe  up  with  die 
yolks  of  two  eggs,  fill  your  fweetbreads,  and  fatten  them 
with  fine  wooden  fkewers  ^  take  the  ftewpan,  lay  layers 
of  bacon  at  the  bottom  of  the  pan,  feafon  them  with 
pepper,  fait,  mace,  cloves,  fwect  herbs,  and  a  large 
onion  fliced ;  upon  that  lay  thin  flices  of  veal,  and  then 
lay  on  your  fweetbreads  ^  cover  it  clofe,  let  it  ftand 
eight  or  ten  minutes  over  a  flow  fire,  and  ihcn  pour  in 
a  quart  of  boiling  water  or  broth  i  corcr  it  clofe,  and 
2  let 


486  V    E    A    U 

kt  it  ftew  two  hours  very  foftly ;  then  take  out  the 
fwectbreads,  keep  them  hot,  flxain  the  gravy,  fkim  all 
the  fat  off,  boil  it  up  till  there  is  about  half  a  pint, 
put  in  the  fweetbreads,  and  give  them  two  or  three 
minutes  ftew  in  the  gravy ;  then  lay  them  in  the  dilh, 
and  pour  the  gravy  over  them.     Garnifli  with  Jemon. 

Szveetbreads  larded.  Parboil  two  or  three  fweetbreadsj 
when,  cold,  lard  them  down  the  middle  with  litde  bits 
of  bacon,  on  each  fide  with  bits  of  lemon-peel,  on  each 
fide  of  that  with  a  little  pickled  cucumber  cut  very 
fmall ;  ftew  them  gently  in  cuUis,  or  rich  gravy,  thick- 
ened with  a  litde  flour  j  add  mufiiroom  powder,  kyan, 
and  fait,  if  neceffary,  and  a  little  lemon-juice.  Lamb 
ftones  nrmy  be  added,  parboiled  and  fried. 

Szveetbreads  a-la-daube.  Take  three  of  the  largeft: 
and  fineft  fweetbreads  you  can  get,  put  them  in  a 
faucepan  of  boiling  water  for  five  minutes,  then  take 
them  out,  and  when  they  are  cold,  lard  them  with  a  row 
down  the  middle,  with  very  little  pieces  of  bacon,  then 
a  row  on  each  fide  with  lemon-peel,  cut  the  fize  of 
wheat  ftraw ;  then  a  row  on  each  fide  of  pickled  cucum- 
bers, cut  very  fine  j  put  them  in  a  toffing-pa^n,  with 
good  veal  gravy,  a  little  juice  of  lemon,  a  ipoonful  of 
browning ;  ftew  them  gently  a  quarter  of  an  hour ;  a 
little  before  they  are  ready,  thicken  them  with  flour 
and  butter,  dilTi  them  up,  and  pour  the  gravy  over, 
lay  round  them  bunches  of  boiled  celery,  or  oyftcr  pat- 
ties. Garnifli  'with  ftewed  fpinach,  green-coloured 
parfley,  ftick  a  bunch  of  barberries  in  the  middle  of 
each  fweetbread.  It  is  a  pretty  corner  difti  for  either 
dinner  or  fupper. 

5a 


VEAL,  487 

TCo  fry  Sweetbreads.  Cut  them  in  long  flices,  beat  up 
the  yolk  of  an  egg,  and  rub  it  over  them  with  a  fea- 
ther; make  a  feafoning  of  pepper,  fait,  and  grated 
bread ;  dip  them  into  it,  and  fry  them  in  butter.     For 

fauce catchup  and  butter,  with  gravy,  or  lemon- 

lauce.     Garnifh  with  fmall  flices  of  toafted  bacon  and 
crifped  parfley. 

Sweetbreads  en  Gordineere,  Parboil  three  fweetbreads ; 
take  a  ftewpan  and  lay  layers  of  bacon,  or  ham  and 
veal ;  over  that  lay  the  fweetbreads,  with  the  upper  fide 
downwards.    .  Put  a    layer  of  veal   and   bacon  over 
them,  a  pint  of  veal  broth,  and  three  or  four  blades 
of  mace.     Stew  them  gently  three  quarters  of  an  hour, 
then  take  out  the  fweetbreads,  drain  the  gravy  through 
a  fieve,  and  fkim  oiF  the  fat.     Make  an  amulet  of 
yolks   of  eggs,    in  the  following  manner:    Beat  up 
four  yolks  of  eggs,  put  two  on  a  plate,  and  put  them 
over  a  ftewpan  of  water  boiling  over  the  fire;  put 
another  plate  over  it,  and  it  will  foon"  be  done.     Put 
a  little  fpinach-juice  into  the  other  half,   and  fcrve  it 
the  fame.     Cut  it  out  in  fprigs  of  what  form  you  pleafe, 
and  put  it  over  the  fweetbreads  in  the  difli,  and  keep 
them  as  hot  ^  you  can.     Put  fome  butter  rolled  in 
flour  to  thicken  the  gravy,  and  two  yolks  of  eggs  beat 
up  in  a  gill  of  cream;  put  it  over  the  fire,  and  keep 
ftirring  it  one  way  till  it  is  thick  and  fmooth.     Put  it  , 
under  the  fweetbreads,  and  fend  it  up.     Gacnifli  with 
beet-root  and  lemon. 

Veal  a-la-Bourgeoife.  Lard  fome  pretty  thick  flices 
with  bacon,  and  feafon  them  with  pepper,  fait,  beaten 
mace,  cloves,  nutmeg,  and  chopped  parfley;  then 
cover  the  ftewpan  with  flices  of  fat  bacon,  lay  the  veal 

upon 


488  VEAL. 

upon  them,  cover  it,  and  let  it  over  a  very  flow  fire! 
for  eight  or  ten  minutes,  Co  as  to  be  juft  hot^  and  no 
m<M*e ;  then  briik  up  your  fire,  and  brown  your  veal 
on  both  fides ;  then  fhake  (6a\c  flcur  over  it  and  brown 
it.  Pour  in  a  quart  o(  good  broth  or  gravy,  cover  it 
clofe,  and  let  it  dew  gendy  till  it  is  enough  -,  then  take 
out  the  dices  of  bacon,  and  (kim  all  the  fat  o£f  dean^ 
and  beat  up  the  yolks  of  three  eggs  with  (omc  pf  the 
gravy. ,  Mix  all  together,  and  keep  it  Hirring  one  way 
till  it  is  faKX)th  and  thick  i  then  take  it  up,  lay  your 
meat  in  the  di(h,  pour  the  fauce  over  it,  and  gamtih 
with  lemon.  ^ 

Veal  Griftles  and  Green  Peas.  Cut  the  griftles  of  a 
breaft  of  veal  in  pieces :  fcald  them,  if  you  would  have  ' 
them  white ;  ftcw  them  in  broth  with  a  few  flices  of 
lard,  half  a  lemon  >  peeled  and  diced,  whole  pepper  and 
fait,  and  a  faggot  of  fweet  herbs  y  when  done,  wipe  them 
clean,  and  ferve  the  fl:ewed  peas  upon  them.  You 
may  alfo,  when  the  meat  is  about  a  quarter  done,  take 
it  out  of  the  braze,  and  put  it  in  a  ftewpan  with  die 
peas,  a  little  butter,  pardcy,  a  litde'winter-favory,  a 
dice  of 'ham,  and  a  few  cabbage  lettuces  cut  fmallji 
add  a  little  cullis  and  flour ;  reduce  the  lauce  pretty 
thick ;  fait  only  a  little  before  you  ferve. 

Veal  Griftles  another  way.  About  the  half  of  a  breaft 
of  veal  will  do  for  this  fmall  difli ;  take  off  all  the  up- 
per part,  and  cut  the  griftles  in  fmall  bits ;  blanch 
them,  put  them  into  a  ftewpan  to  a  ladle  of  broth ;  ftcw 
very  tender,  and  put  a  bit  of  butter  mixcti  with  flour, 
a  bunch  of  onions  and  parfley,  a-  blade  of  mace,  pepr 
per  and  fait.  For  your  fauce,  you  may  prepare  either 
peas  or  afparagus  -,  make  a  liafon,  and  juft  before  you 

fervc 


1 


VEAL.  489 

fcrve,  pour  it  in ;  add  the  juice  of  a  lemon,  and  difh  it 

up. 

Breads  of  lamb  are  done  in  the  fame  manner,  and 
make  a  favourite  dilh. 

To  drefs  Scotch  Collops  white.  Cut  them  off  the  thick 
part  of  a  leg  of  veal,  the  fize  and  thicknefs  of  a  crown 
piece,  put  a  lump  of  butter  into  a  toffing-pan,  and  fet 
it  over  a  flow  fire,  or  it  will  difcolour  your  coUopaj 
before  the  pan  is  hot,  lay  the  collops  in,  and  keep 
turning  them  over  till  you  fee  the  butter  is  turned  to  a 
thick  white  gravy  j  put  your  collops  and  gravy  in  a 
pot,  and  fet  them  upon  the  hearth  to  keep  warm  j 
put  cold  butter  again  into  your  pan  every  time  you  fill 
it,  and  fi-y  them  as  above,  and  fo  continue  till  you  have 
finiflied.  When  you  have  fried  them,  pour  your  gravy 
from  them  into  your  pan,  with  a  tea-ipoonful  of  le- 
mon^-pickle,  mulhroom-catchup,  caper  liquor,  beaten 
mace,  kyanpeper,  and  faltj  thicken  with  flour  and 
butter.  When  it  has  well  boiled,  put  in  the  yolks  of 
two  eggs  well ,  beat  and  mixed,  with  a  tca-fpoonful  of 
rich  cream;  keep  fliaking  your  pan  over  the  fir?  till 
your  gravy  looks  of  a  fine  thicknefs,  then  put  in  your 
collops,  and  fliake  them;  when  they  are  quite  hot, 
put  them  on  your  difti  with  force-meat  balls,  ftrew 
over  them  pickled  muflirooms,  Garnilh  with  barber- 
ries and  kidney  beans. 

Jnother  way.  Cut  the  veal  the  fame  as  above  di- 
reftedi  throw  the  collops  into  a  ftewpan,  put  fomc 
boiling  water  over  them,  and  ftir  them  about,  then 
{train  them  ofi^,  take  a  pint  of  good  veal  broth,  and 
thicken  it ;  add  a  bundle  of  fweet  herbs  with  fome 
mace  I    put  fweetbread,  force-meat  balls,  and  frcfh 

Vol.  II,  R  r  r  mufli- 


490  VEAL. 

mulhrooms ;  if  no  frefh  to  be  had,  iife  pickled  ones 
walhed  in  warm  water ;  ftew  them  about  fifteen  mi- 
nutes ;  add  the  yolk  of  two  eggs  and  a  pint  of  cream, 
beat  them  well  together  with  fome  nutmeg  grated,  and 
keep  ftirring  it  till  it  boils  up ;  add  the  juice  of  a  quar- 
ter of  a  lemon,  then  put  it  in  your  dilh.  Garnilh  with 
lemon. 

•  To  drefs  Scotch  CoUops  Irozvn.  Cut  your  collops  the 
fame  way  as  the  white  ones,  but  brown  your  butter 
before  you  lay  in  your  collops ;  fry  them  over  a  quick 
fire,  ihake  and  turn  them,  and  keep  them  in  a  fine 
froth  5  when  they  are  a  light  brown,  put  them  into  a 
pot,  and  fry  them  as  the  white  ones ;  when  you  ^havc 
fried  them  all  brown,  pour  all  the  gravy  from  them 
into  a  clean  tofling-pan  with  half  a  pint  of  gravy  made 
of  the  bones  and  bits  you  cut  the  collops  off,  two  tea- 
^oonfuls  of  lemon-pickle,  a  large  one  of  catchup,  the 
fame  of  browning,  half  an  ounce  of  morels,  half  a  le- 
mon, a  Kttle  anchovy,  kyan,  and  fait  to  your  tafte  j 
thicken  it  with  flour  and  butter,  let  it  boil  five  or  fix 
minutes,  then  put  in  your  collops,  and  fliake  them 
over  the  fire  j  if  they  boil  it  will  make  them  hard. 
When  they  hav^  fimmered  a  little,  take  them  out  with 
an  egg  fpoon,  and  lay  them  on  your  difh  i  drain  your 
gravy  and  pour  it  hot  on  them,  lay  over  diem  force- 
meat balls,  and  little  dices  of  bacon  curled  round  a 
flcewer  ?ind  boiled  i  throw  a  few  mulhrooms  over.  'Gar** 
nifti  with  lemon  and  barberries,  and  ferve  them  up. 

Another  w^.  Ciit  them  fi-om  the  leg,  fry  them  a 
good  brown,  but  not  tbo  much;  take  foiric  g663 
gravy,  thicken  it  with  a  little  flour,  boil  it  a  few  mi- 
liutcsi  add  kyan,  catchup,  truffles,  morels,  fait,  muih- 

rooms 


^^mmmm^|^^fm^^l^^mmmmmmm^^^^^mm^ 


V    £    A    I*  49i 

1-ooms  pickled,  gratc4  Icipon-peel,  fimmer  this  up; 
juft  heat  the  collops  through,  and  what  gravy  came 
from  them,  but  do  not  let  them  boil,  or  they  will  be 
hard,  which  is  a  great  fault ;  add  force-meat  balls,  hard 
yolks  of  eggs  -,  lay  rpund  little  flices  of  bacon  notched 
and  toalled,  and  fliced  lemon. 

To  drefs  Scotch  Collops  the  Frencit  wcy.  Take  a  leg  of 
veal,  and  cut  your  chops  pretty  thick,  five  or  ^ 
inches  Ipng,  and  three  inches  broad ;  rub  them  over 
with  the  yolk  of  an  egg,  put  pepper  and  fait,  and  grate 
a  little  nutmeg  on  them,  ^d  a  little  ihred  parfley  \  lay 
them  on  an  jcarthcn  di(h,  ^d  fet  them  beforp  the  fire ; 
bafte  them  with  butter,  and  let  them  be  a  fine  brown> 
then  turn  them  on  the  other  fide,  and  rub  them  as  above  j 
bafte  smd  brown  them  the  fame  way.  When  they  arc 
thoroughly  enough,  make  a  good  brown  gravy  with 
truffles  and  morels  ^  difh  up  your  collops,  lay  truffles 
and  morels,  and  the  yolks  of  hard  boiled  eggs  over 
them.     GarniQi  with  crifp  parfley  and  lemon* 

To  hajh  Veal.  Cut  your  veal  into  roui^d  thin  ilices, 
of  the  fize  of  half  a  crown,  and  put  them  into  a  iauce- 
pan  with  a  little  gravy  j  put  to  it  fome  lemon-peel  cut 
exceeding  fine,  and  a  tea-fpoonful  of  lemon-pickle  j  put 
it  on  the  fire,  and  thicken  it  with  butter  and  flour  j  put 
in  your  veal  as  foon  as  it  boils,  and  jufl:  before  you  difli 
it  up,  put  in  a  fpoonful  of  cream,  and  lay  fippets  round 
the  difli. 

To  tofs  up  cold  Veal  white.  Cut  the  veal  into  litde 
tliin  bits,  put  milk  enough  to  it  for  fauce,  grate  in  a 
little  nptmeg,  a  very  little  fait,  a  little  piece  of  butter 
rolled  in  flour ;  to  half  a  pint  of  milk,  the  yolk  of  two 
eggs  well  beat,  a  fpoonful  of  muftiroom  pickle,  ftir  all 

R  r  r  2  toge- 


49^  VEAL. 

together  till  it  is  thick^  then  pour  it  into  your  diih,  and 
garnifh  with  lemon. 

Cold  fowlj  fkinned  and  done  this  way,  eats  well ;  or 
the  beft  end  of  a  cold  breaft  of  veal ;  firft  fry  it,  drain 
it  from  the  fat,  then  pour  this  fauce  to  it. 

To  fry  cold  Y I.  Ah.  Cut  your  veal  into  pieces  of  the 
thicknefe  of  a  half-orown,  and  as  long  as  you  pleafe  ; 
dip  them  in  the  yolk  of  an  egg,  and  then  in  crumbs  of 
bread,  with  a  few  fweet  herbs  and  ihred  lemon-peel  in 
it  J  grate  a  litde  nutmeg  over  them,  and  fiy  them  in 
frefh  butter ;  the  butter  muft  be  hot,  juft  enough  to 
fiy  them  in.  In  the  mean  time,  make  a  little  gravy  of 
the  bone  of  the  veal,  and  when  the  meat  is  fiied,  take 
it  out  with  a  fork,  and  lay  it  in  a  diih  before  the  fire  ; 
then  Ihake  a  litde  gravy  into  the  pan,  and  ftir  *  it 
round  i  then  put  in  a  litde  gravy,  fqueeze  in  a  little 
lemon,  and  pour  it  over  the  veal.  Gamilh  with 
.  lemon. 

To  mince  Veal.  Cut  your  veal  in  fllces,  then  cut  it 
in  little  fquare  bits,  but  do  not  chop  it ;  put  it  into  a 
fauccpan,  with  two  or  three  fpoonfuls  of  gravy,  a  dice  of 
lemon,  a  litde  pepper  and  fait,  a  good  lump  of  butter 
rolled  in  flour,  a  tea-fpoonfiil  of  lemon-pickle,  and  a 
large  fpoonfijl  of  cream  ;  keep  fhaking  it  over  the  fire 
till  it  boils,  bdt  do  not  let  it  boil  above  a  minute;  if 
you  do,  it  will  make  your  meat  eat  hard :  put  fippefs 
round  your  difh. 

•  Veal  Steaks  Fenetian  fajhion.  Cut  thick  flices  of  veal 
pretty  large;  marinade  an  hour  in  a  litde  oil,  with 
chopped  parfley,  Ihaiiots,  muihrooms,  fweet  herbsj 
pepper  and  fait  -,  make  as  much  of  the  nurinade  (tick 
to  them  as  poflible  i  roll  them  in  bread-crumbs  and 

boU 


VEAL.  49^ 

boil  flowly,  bafting  with  the  remainder  of  the  mari- 
nade. ScrV^e  with  the  fqueeze  of  a  lemon  or  Seville 
orange. 

Slices  o/Veal  Venetian  fajhion.  Cut  thin  fliccs  of 
veal,  and  between  every  two  put  a  flice  of  ham  of  the 
lame  fize^  firft  dipped  in  eggs,  chopped  parfley,  fhal- 
lots,  mufhrooms,  truffles,  anu  a  litde  pepper;  roll 
them  ia-41ices  of  latd,  and  (lew  flowly  with  a  little 
broth  and  whitc.wine ;  when  done,  take  off  the  bacon, 
(kim  and  drain  the  fauce,  add  a  litde  butter  and  flour, 
and  ferve  with  a  relifliing  fauce.  Infl:ead  of  bacon,  you 
may  bafte  them  with  eggs  and  bread-crumbs,  and  fry 
or  bake  them.  Serve  with  a  fauce  as  above,  and  gar- 
nifll  with  /ried  parfley. 

VEAhlOu^lets.  Cut  part  of  the  neck  into  cutlets 5 
ftiorten  them,  fry  them  nicely  brown,  ftcw  them  in 
ibme  good  gravy  till  tender,  with  a  little  flour  mixed 
finooth  in  it ;  then  add  catchup,  kyan,  fait,  a  few  truf- 
fles, morelsj  and  pickled  mufliroom*.  Force-meat 
balls  may  likewife  be  added. 

Veal  Cutlets  in  Ragoo.  Take  fome  iarge  cudete 
from  the  fillet,  beat  them  flat,  and  lard  them ;  drew 
over  them  Ibme  pepper,  fait,  crumbs  of  bread,  and 
flired  parfleyj  then  make  a  ragoo  of  veal  fweetbreads  and 
muftirooms ;  fry  the  cutlets  in  melted  butter  of  a  fine 
brown  -,  then  lay  them  io  a  hot  difli,  and  pour  the  r^- 
goo  boiling  hot  over  them. 

Afavoury  Dijh  o/Veal.  Having  roafted  a  fine  loin 
of  veal,  take  it  up,  and  carefully  take  the  flcin  off  the 
back  part  without  breaking  it;  cut  out  all  the  lean 
meat,  but  leave  the  ends  whole,  to  hold  the  following 
mince-meat :  mix  all  the  meat  very  fine  with  the  krd- 
Jicypart,  put  it  into  a  little  veal  gravy,   enough  to 

moiftep 


494-   •  V    E    A    L. 

it  vith  die  gnurv  that  comes  &om  the  loin.  Put  in  t 
little  pepper  and  fait,  fbme  lemoii-peeji  fhred  fine^  the 
yolks  of  three  eggs,  and  a  fpoonful-  of  catchup ; 
thicken  it  with  a  lictk  butter  rolled  in  flour ;  give  it 
a  ihake  or  two  .over  the  fijcci  ^d  put  into  it  the  k^j 
and  then  pull  the  flcjn  over :  if  the  f)dn  ihouid  not 
qxdte  cover  it,  give  it  a  brown  nyith  a  hot  iron,  or  put 
jt  in  an  pven  for  fifteen  nainutes.  Send  it  up  hot^  and 
garniih  with  barberries  and  lemon. 

Another  way.  Cut  large  coUops  out  of  a  leg  of  veal, 
fpread  them  abroad  on  a  drefier,  hack  them  with  the 
back  of 'a  knife^  and  dip  them  in  the  yolks  of  eg^ ; 
ieaibn  them  with  cloves,  mace,  nutmeg,  and  pepper, 
beat  fine ;  make  force-meat  with  fome  of  your  veal, 
Jbeef  fuet,  oyftcrs  chopped,  fweet  herbs  fcred  fiije,  and 
the  aforef^id  fpice  i  flxew  all  thcfe  over  your  i;oUopSj 
rpll  and  tie  them  up,  put  them  on  fkewers,  tie  them  to 
a  fpic,  and  roaft  them  i  to  the  reft  of  your  force-meat 
^dd  a  raw  egg  pr  two,  roll  them  in  balls  and  fry  them ; 
put  them  in  your  difti  with  your  n?eat  yffhen  rpafted^ 
and  make  the  fauce  with  ftrong  broth,  an  apchovy,  a 
ihallot,  a  little  white  wine,  and  fome  fpice.  :Let  it 
ftevv,  ;^)d  thicken  it  with  la  piece  of  butter  rolled  ip 
flour ;  pour  the  fauce  into  a  diih,  lay  the  meat  in,  ancl 
garnifh  with  lepion. 

Veal  RollSf  Take  ten  or  twelve  little  thin  flices  pf 
veal,  lay  on  them  fome  force-meat  according  to  your 
fiuicy,  roll  them  up,  and  tie  them  juft  acrofs  the  pnid- 
dle  with  a  coarfe  thread :  put  them  on  a  bird  ipit,  rub 
them  over  with  yolks  pf  eggs,  flour  them,  and  baftc 
them  .with  butter.  Half  an  hour  will  dp  them.  Lay 
them  into  a  difli,  and  have  ready  fome  gpod  gravy, 

with 


VENISON.  49^ 

.  with  a  few  tniiHes  and  morels,  and  fbthe  tnulhrooms, 
Garniih  with  lemon. 


VEGEt  ABLES.-— See  the  ways  of  dreffing  under 
thfeir  refpeAi^e  heads. 


VENISON. 

To  roqft  Venison.  In  order  to  roaft  a  haunch  <» 
venifon  jproperly,  as  icon  as  you  have  ipitted  it,  you 
muft  lay  6ver  it  a  large  flieet  of  paper,  and  then  a  thin 
common  pafte,  with  another  paper  over  that ;  tic  it 
faft,  in  order  to  keep  the  pafte  from  dropping  off;  and 
if  the  liaunch  be  a  large  one,  it  will  take  four  hours 
roafting.  As  foon  as  it  is  done  enough,  take  off  borii 
paper  and  pafte,  dredge  it  well  with  flour,  and  baftc 
it  with  butter  j  as  foon  as  it  becomes  of  a  light  htown, 
difli  it  up  with  brown  gravy  or  currant  jelly  fauce^  and 
fend  up  fome  in  a  boat. 

Atotber  way  to  roqft  Venison.  Take  a  haunch  of  ve- 
nifon andfpit  it;  rub  fome  butter  all  over  your  haunch; 
take  four  fheets  of  paper  well  buttered,  put  two  on  the 
haunch ;  then  make  a  pafte  with  fome  flour,  a  littk 
butter  and  water;  roll  it  out  half  as  big  as  your 
haunch,  and  put  it  over  the  fat  part;  then  put  the 
other  two  flieets  of  paper  on,  and  tie  them  with  the 
fame  packthread  j  lay  it  to  a  briflc  fire,  and  bafte  it 
well  all  the  time  of  roafting;  if  a  large  haunch  of 
twenty-four  pounds,  it  will  take  three  hours  and  a  hal^ 
3  except 


496  VENISON.- 

except  it  is  a  very  large  fire,  then  three  hours  will  do 
it;  ftrialler  in  proportion. 

A  Venison  Pajly.  Take  a  neck  and  breaft  of  veni- 
fon,  bone  them,  and  feafon  them  weU  widi  pepper  and 
fait,  put  them  into  a  deep  pan,  with  the  beft  part  of  a 
neck  of  mutton  diced  and  laid  over  them  j  pour  in  a 
glafs  of  red  wine,  put  a  coarfe  pafte  over  it,  and  bake 
it  two  hours  in  an  oven ;  then  lay  the  venifon  in  a 
difh,  and  pour  the  gravy  over  it,  and  put  one  pound 
of  butter  over  it ;  make  a  good  puff- pafte,  and  lay  it 
near  half  an  inch  thick  round  the  edge  of  the  difh ;  roll 
out  the  lid,  which  muft  be  a  little*  thicker  than  the 
pafte  op  the  edge  of  the  di(h,  and  lay  it  on ;  then  roll 
out  another  lid  pretty  thin,  and  cut  in  flowers,  leaves^ 
Iff  whatever  form  you  pleafe,  and  lay  it  on  the  Bd.  If 
you  do  not  want  it,  it  will  keep  in  the  pot  that  it  was 
baked  in  eight  or  ten  days  j  but  let  the  cruft  be  kept  on 
that  the  air  may  not  get  to  it.  A  breaft  and  alhoulder 
of  venifon  is  moft  proper  for  a  pafty. 

Sweet  Sauce  foi'V Elf is6tj.  Melt  fome  currant  jelly 
in  a  little  water  and  red  wine,  or  fend  in  currant  jelly 
only  J  or  fimmer  red  wine  and  fugar  for  about  twenty 
minutes. 

For  different  Sauces^ — ^fee  that  article  i — ^and  allbt 
die  article  Mutton. 


VERMICELLI.— See  Pudding  and  Pie, 


VINEGAR. 


t    497    1 


V    1    K    E    G    A    ft. 

Wine  vinegar  is  con^dera^ly  purer  th^  that  pro^ 
duce4  froO)  m^Jt-licjuors ;  and  better  adaptecj  to  pick« 
Jing,  ^c.  cipeciajlly  where  the  colour  of  the  article  to 
be  pickled  is  any  pjbjeft.  As  a  medicine,  it  is  excel* 
,fcnt  in  all  inflamniatory  and  putrid  difprders^  either 
.e^tt^rnal  or  internal. 

The  common  tO^  of  making  Vinegar^  Brew  a  mid- 
dling fort  of  beer,  hopping  it  well,  and  when  it  has 
, worked  well,  and  grown  fine,  put  in  fome  rape  orhuflc 
of  grapes ;  mafh  them  together  in  a  tub>  and  when  the 
rape  has  fettled,  draw  off  the  liquid  part ;  put  it  into 
a  caik  and  fet  it  in  the  fun  as  hot  as  may  be^  the  bbng . 
being  only  covered  widi  a  tile  or  fl^te  ftone^  and  in 
about  a  month  or  five  weeks  it  will  be  excellent 
vinegar. 

JMOther  Vjtry  ffnoii  w0.  T,6  a  gallon  of  jJ^riAg  watq^ 
put  jdiree  pounds  of  M4aga  raifins  in  ,d  jar^  add  plaqe 
«cbem  ib  jdi&t  they  may  have  the  hottefl:  lun  from  May 
to  MicfaaqloiSLS  t  then  prefi  out  the  liquof ,  and  ptit  \t 
up  in  a  very  fttong  iron  jtiooped  calk^  th^^  it  may  not 
burft  I  and  though  it  will  appear  very  thick  ai^d  muddy 
when  newly  prefled>  if  will  refine  in  the  vefiel,  and  be 
AS  ckar  as  wine» 

4 

Let  it  itand  after  it  hgs  hfjtjx  dra^Q  off  three  ipontfaf* 

Another.  The  country  people  make  vinegar  of  hon^e 

brewed  ale,  by  fetting  it.  in  the  flu\  ijjl  it  foTit8>  and 

then  they  call  it  alegar,  but  this  is  not  fo  good  as  that 

which  is  made  of  wine* 

Vol.  II.  S  s  9  3> 


498  WAFERS. 

To  make  Vinegar  of  Cyder.  Vinegar  may  be  made 
of  the  meaneft  cyder ',  for  which  purpofe  the  cyder 
muft  be  drawn  ofF  as  fine  as  may  be  into  another  veflcl, 
and  a  fmall  quantity  of  the  muft  or  pouz  of  apples  muft 
be  added  thereto,  and  let  it  be  fet  in  the  fun  for  a  week 
or  nine  days,  at  the  end  of  which  you  may  draw  it  off: 
now  if  you  do  this,  your  cafk  of  muft  or  pouz  muft  be 
kept  in  a  dry  place,  till  there  is  occafion  to  uie  it» 
and  you  muft  not  ufe  any  of  it  that  is  mufly  or 
mouldy. 


W. 
WAFERS. 

This  is  a  kind  of  paftry : Mix  your  flour  (what 

quantity  you  judge  proper)  with  cream  in  the  evening  5 
next  day  knead  it  well,  clearing  it  from  lumps,  and 
add,  finely  powdered  fugar,  equal  in  quantity  with 
the  flour ;  mix  them  well,  add  more  cream,  and  a  lit- 
tle orange  flower  water,  till  the  whole  is  ibmewhat 
thicker  than  rich  milk. 

Having  heated  your  wafer  iron,  rub  it  a  few  times 
with  a  bit  of  frelh  butter  in  the  corner  of  a  napkin ; 
then  put  in  about  a  (poonful  and  a  half  of  batter  for 
each  wafer,  prels  the  iron  a  little  clofe,  and  bake  it  on 
each  fide  by  cuming  the  iron. 


WALLNUTS.— See  Pickles. 

WARTS. 


[    499    1 

WARTS. 

7*0  deftroy  Warts.  .  Steep  the  inner  rind  of  a  lemc^n 
twenty-four  hours  in  diftilled  vinegar^  and  apply  it  io 
the  warts ;  it  muft  not  be  left  on  the  part  above  three 
hours  at  a  time,  and  is  to  be  applied  frelh  every  day. 

Ofy  Divide  a  red  onion,  and  rub  the  warts  wcl^ 
w^th  it. 

Or^  Anoint  the  warts  with  the  milky  juice  of  the  herb 
Mercury  feveral  times,  and  they  will  gradually  waile 
away. 


WATERS. 

It  was  our  intention  to  have  entered  very  largely 

into  the  article  of  diftilled  water Sy  efpeclally  thofe  corduid 
ones  adapted  to  the  clofet;— -but  upon  accurate  in* 
quiry  we  found  that  they  can  never  be  made  to  perfect 
tion  in /matt  quantities;  and  in  large  ones  it  would  re-- 
quire  an  apparatus,  with  a  degree  of  expence  and 
trouble  improper  for  private  families,  fetting  afidc  the 
inconveniences  that  litigious  people  might  occafion. 
Such  articles  will  therefore  be  obtained  belt  from  chy« 
niifts  and  difiiller$  of  repute.  ~ 


WHEY. 

White-^ne  Whey.  Put  a  pint  of  fkimmed  milk^ 
and  half  a  pint  of  white  wine  into  a  baibn.  I^et  it 
fland  a  few  minutes,  then  pour  over  it  a  pine  of  boiling 
water ;  let  it  ftand  a  litde,  and  the  curd  will  gather 
in  a  lump,  and  fetde  to  the  bottom;  then  pour 
your  whey  into  a  china  bowl,  and  put  in  a  lump  of 
fugar,  a  iprig  of  balm,  or  a  flice  of  lemonj^ 

S  5  s  a  W  H  U 


I   • 


500       WlNp,  ok  tftAf  ULENCE, 


WHITINQS— to  drefi,  fee  HAftttocfts,  &Ci 


Or*  W|Np,  OK  FLATULENCE. 

I 

All  nenrou3  patients^  \^ithout  e^ceptlon^  are  affic^ 
fed  with  w\nd  i>r  flatulencies  in  the  ftomach  and  bav« 
cls»  which  ariie  chiefly  from  iht  want  of  tone  or  vigoiiC' 
in  theic  organs.  Vegetable  food  may  increafe  thi$ 
complaint ;  but  ilrong  and  healthy  people  are  feldom 
troubled  with  wind^  unlels  they  either  overload  their 
ftomachSj(  or  drink  liquors  that  are  in  a  fermenting 
ftate, 

.  To  relieve  this  complaint,  fuch  medicines  ought  ta 
be  yfed  as  have  a  tendency  to  ex^l  wind,  and,  by 
ftrength^ing  the  alimentary  canal j^  to  prevent  its  being 
produced  there. 

The  liil  of  medicines  for  expelling  wind  is  very  nu- 
merous ;  they  often  however  diiappoint  the  expedations 
ef  bodi  the  phyfician  and  his  patient.  The  mofl;  cde^ 
brated  among  the  clafs  of  carminatives  are  juniper-^ 
berries ;  the  roots  of  ginger  and  zedoary ;  the  feeds  of 
anile,  carraway,  and  coriander,  gum,  afafcetida,  and 
opium  i  the  warm  waters,  tinftures,  and  fpirits.,. 

No  medicines  arc  more  efficacious,  in  expelling 
wind,  thah  aether  and  laudanum.  The  laudanum  to  be 
taken  in  a  mixture  With  pepper-mint  water  and  tinc- 
ture of  caftor,  or  fwcet  fpirits  of  nitre.  Sometimes,  in 
place  of  this,  opium  pills  with  aiafoetida.  The  good 
fefFefts  of  opiated  are  equally  confpicuous,  whether  Ac 
flatulence  be  contained  in  the  flbmach  dr  inteftinesi 
and  thefe  warm '  medicines,    commonly  called  car^ 

minatives 


WIKt),  OR  FLATULENCE.         501 

fninativeSy  do  not  often  giVe  irhmediate  relief^  except 
when  Ae  wind  is  in  the  ftomach. 

The  dofe  of  *thcr  is  a  tea-fpoonftil  mixed  with  two  ta- 
ble fpoohfuls  of  water.  Though  the  patient  may  begin 
with  this  quantity,  it  will  be  neceflary  to  increafe  the 
dofe  gradually  as  the  ftomach  can  bear  it.  ^ther  is 
Jiow  given  in  confiderably  grdater  dofes. 

When  the  cafe  of  flatulent  patients  is  fuch  as  makes 
k  irtiproper  to  give  them  warm  medicines  in^^wutlly, 
external  applications,  are  fometimes  of  advantage. 
Equal  parts  of  antl-hyfteric  and  ftomach-plafter  may 
be  fpread  upon  a  piece  of  loft  leather,  of  fuch  fize  as  to 
cover  the  greateft  part  of  the  belly ;  this  ihould  be 
kept  on  for  a  confiderable  time,  provided  the  patient  be 
able  to  bear  it  j  if  it  fhould  give  great  unealinefs^  it 
may  be  taken  off^  and  die  following  ointment  be  ufed. 
\a  its  ftead :  \     * 

Take  of  Bate*s  anodyne  bdfaman  ounce;  ofthe'ex- 
prefled  oil  of  mace,  half  an  ounce  1  oil  of  mint,  two 
drams.  Let  thefe  ingredients  be  mixed  together,  and 
about  a  table-rfpoonful  well  rubbed  on  the  parts  at  bed« 
time. 

For  ftrengthening  the  ftomach  and  bowels,  and  con* 
fequently  for  leflening  the  produdlion  of  flatulence,  the 
Peru^ikn  bark,  bitters,  chalybeates,  and  exercife  arc 
neceflary.  In  flatulent  cafes,  fomc  nutmeg  or  ginger 
fhould  be  added  to  the  tinfture  of  the  bark  and  bitters, 
and  die  aromatic  powder  fliouid  be  joined  with  the 

filings  of  iron. 

When  windy  cpmplaints  arc  attended  with  coflivew 
hefe,  which  is  often  the  c4fcj  feW  thing?  will  be  found 

to 


501         WIND,  OR  FLATULENCE. 

to  anfwcr  better  than  four  or  five  of  the  following  pilk 
taken  every  night  at  bed-time : 

Take  of  alkfoetida  two  drams;  fuccotrine  aloes, 
fait  of  iron,  and  powdered  ginger,  of  each  one  dram; 
as  much  of  the  elixir  proprietatis  as  will  be  fufficient  to 
form  them  into  pills. 

On  the  other  hand,  when  the  body  is  too  open, 
twelve  or  fifteen  grains  of  rhubarb,  with  half  a  dram, 
or  two  fcruples  of  the  Japonic  cpnfeftion,  given  every 
other  evening  will  have  very  good  efFeds. 

In  thofe  flatulent  complaints  which  come  on  about 
the  time  the  menfes  ceafe,  repeated  fmall  bleedings  of- 
ten give  more  relief  than  any  other  remedy. 

With  regard  to  diet,  tea,  and  likewife  all  flatulent 
aliments,  are  to  be  avoided ;  and  for  drink,  water  with 
a  little  brandy  or  rum  is  not  only  preferable  to  malt  li- 
quor, but,  in  moft  cafes,  alfo  to  wine. 

Exercife  is,  however*  fuperior  to  all  medicine,  both 
for  preventing  the  produftion,  and  likewife  for  expel- 
ling of  flatulencies.  Thefe  efFedls,  however,  are  not  to 
be  expedted  from  fauntering  about,  or  lolling  in  a  car- 
riage, but  from  labouring,  or  fuch  aftive  amufements 
as  give  exercife  to  every  part  of  the  body. 

Perlbns  afflifted  with  flatulency  are  generally  unhappy 
unlefs  they  be  taking  fome  purgative  medicines  ^  thefe, 
though  they  may  give  immediate  eafe,  tend  to  weaken 
and  relax  the  ftomach  and  bowels,  and  confcquently 
increafe  the  diforder.  Their  beft  method  is  to  mix 
purgatives  and  ftomachics  together.  Equal  parts  of 
Peruvian  bark  and  rhubarb  may  be  infufed  in  brandy 
or  win*,  apd  taken  in  fuch  quantity  as  to  keep  the  body 
gently  open. 

WINES. 


C   503  ] 


WINES. 

Ratfi/kWi^t.  Put  two  hundred  weight  of  raifins, 
flalks  and  all,  into  a  large  hogfhead ;  fill  it  with  water 
let  them  fteep  a  fortnight,  ftirring  them  every  day ; 
then  pour  ofF  the  liquor,  and  prefs  the  raifiiis.  Put 
both  liquors  together  in  a  nice  clean  veffd  that  will 
juft  hold  it,  for  it  muft  be  full ;  let  it  ftand  till  it  has 
done  hifling,  or  making  the  leaft  noife,  then  ftop  it 
clofe,  and  let  it  ftand  fix  months.  Peg  it,  and  if  you 
jfind  it  quite  clear,  rack  it  off  in  another  veffel  i  ftop 
it  clofe,  and  let  it  ftand  three  months  longer  ^  then 
bottle  it,  and  when  you  ufe  it,  rack  it  off  into  a  de* 
canter. 

Another  way.  Take  three  hundred  and  a  half  of  Ma^ 
laga  raifins,  fixty-fix  gallons  of* water,  in  a  large  tub 
with  a  falfe  bottom ;  let  them  ftand  for  twenty-two  or 
twenty-three  days,  ftirring  them  once  or  twice  a  day ; 
then  draw  them  off  into,  a  clean  hogfliead,  and  let 
^hem  work  as  long  as  they  will,  filling  the  hogfhead 
fiill  every  day  for  five  or  ,fix  months  j  then  rack  the 
liquor  into  another  caflc,  and  put  to  it  two  gallons  of 
brandy. 

Another  way.  Boil  ten  gallons  of  Ipring  water  an 
hour,  but  as  fbon  as  it  is  milk  warm,  add  fix  pounds  of 
Malaga  raifins,  clean  picked  and  half  chopped,  to  every 
gallon ;  ftir  it  up  together  twice  a  day  for  nine  or  tea 
days,  then  run  it  through  a  hair  fieve,  and  fqueeze  the 
raifins  well  with  your  hands,  and  put  the  liquor  in  your 
barrel  \  bung  it  clofe  up,  let  it  ftand  three  months^  and 
then  botde  it  off. 


■  I 


504  WINES. 

Eider  Wine.  Pick  your  elder-berries  when  they  arc 
full  ripe,  put  them  in  a  ftone  j^,  and  fet  them  in  the 
oven,  or  in  a  kettle  of  boiling  water  till  the  jar  is  hot 
dirough ;  then  take  them  out,  and  drain  them  throu^ 
a  coarle  Iieve,  wringing  die  berries,  and  put  t^e  juice 
into  a  dean  ketde.  To  every  quart  of  juice,  put  ^ 
pound  of  fine  Li/bon  (ugar,  let  it  boil,  and  iki^  it 
well ;  when  it  is  dean  and  fine,  pour  it  mQ  &  jar ; 
when  cold,  cover  it  dole,  and^  keep  it  dll  you  make 
raifin  wine ;  then,  when  you  tun  your  wine,  to  every  . 
gallon  of  wine  put  half  a  pint  of  elder  fyrup. 

Anothet  way.  Chop  fixtcen  pounds  of  Malaga  raifin^ 
very  finaU ;  take  fix  pounds  of  powder  fugar,  and  five 
gallons  of  water  \  boil  them  all  togedier  a  quarter  of  an 
hour,  then  pour  the  liquor  boiling  hot  upon  the  rai- 
fins ;  itir  them  well  together,  and  let  them  fiaod  ten 
days,  ftirring  it  well  every  day ;  then  ilrain  the  liquor, 
and  prefs  out  the  raifins ;  add  to  each  gallon  a  pint  of 
the  pure  juice  of  ekler^berries;  put  to  it  a  very  little 
ale-yeaft  ipread  on  a  bit  of^oaft,  juft  enough  to  make 
it  move,  not  to  work  up ;  let  it  Hand  two  or  three  days 
to  ferment,  dien  tun  it  up  ioto  a  veflel,  but  let  it  not  be 
full,  that  the^e  may  be  room  for  it  to  work ;  fiop  it 
clofe,  let  it  Hand  to  be  thoroughly  fine,  and  then  bot« 

tleit« 

*. 

Elder 'fiffwer^iynz^  Take  the  flowers  of  ekler,  bat 
carefully  rejeft  the  ftalks.  To  every  quart  of  fk>wers 
put  a  gallon  of  waver,  and  three  pounds  of  loaf  fugar ; 
boil  the  water  and  fugar  a  quarter  of  an  hour,  then 
pour  it  on  the  flowers^  and  kt  it  Jrork  three  days ; 
t^en  drain  the  wine  through  a  hair  fieve,  and  put  it 
into  a  cafk.     To  every  ten  gallons  of  wine,    add  an 

ounce 


■^^^ 


W    I    N    E    Si  505 

ounce  of  iiinglafs  diflblved  in  cyder,  and  fix  whole 
eggs.  Clofe  it  up>  let  it  ftand  fix  months^  and  then  bot^ 

tie  it. 

To  make  Elder-fozverW iue^  very  like  Frmttniac.  Take 

fix  gallons  of  fpring-watcr,  twelve  pounds  of  white 
fugar,  fix  pounds  of  raifins  of  the  fun  chopped  5  boil 
thefe  together  one  hour,  then  take  the  flowers  of  elder, 
when  they  are  falling,  and  rub  them  off  to  the  quan- 
tity of  half  a  peck.  When  the  liquor  is  cold,  put 
them  in,  the  next  day  put  in  the  juice  of  three  lemons, 
and  four  fpoonfuls  of  good  ale-yeaft :  let  it  (land  co« 
vered  up  two  days,  then  drain  it  ofi^  and  put  it  in  a 
veffel  fit  for  it.  To  every  gallon  of  wine  put  a  quart 
of  Rhenifh,  and  put  your  bung  lightly  on  a  fbrmight, 
then  fl:op  it  down  clofe.  Let  it  ftand  fix  months  j  and 
if  it  be  fine,  botde  it  off. 

Smyrna  Raifin  Wine.  Put  twenty-four  gallons  of 
water  to  an  hundred  pounds  of  raifins ;  after  letting  it 
ftand  about  fourteen  days,  put  it  into  your  caflc;  when 
it  has  remained  there  fix  months,  put  a  gallon  of  brandy 
to  it :  when  it  is  fine,  bottle  it. 

Grape  Wine.  Put  a  gallon  of  grapes  to  a  gallon  of 
water ;  bruife  the  grapes,  and  let  them  ftand  a  week 
without  ftirring,  then  draw  it  off  fine.  Put  to  a  gallon 
of  wine,  three  pounds  of  fugar,  and  then  put  it  in  a 
veflel,  but  do  not  ftop  it  till  it  is  done  4iifi[ing. 

Rafpberry  Wine.  Bruife  fome  rafpberries  with  the 
back  of  a  fpoon,  and  ftrain  them  through  a  flannel 
bag  into  a  ftone  jar.  Put  a  pound  of  double-refined 
fUgar  to  every  quart  of  juice,  ftir  it  well  together,  and 
cover  it  clofe ;  after  letting  it  ftand  three  days,  pour  it 
clear  off.     Put  two  quarts  of  white  wine  to  one  quart 

Vol.  II.  T 1 1  of 


r^ 


506  WINES. 

of  juice^  then  bottle  it  oflF,  and  it  will  be  fit  to  drink 
in  about  a  week.  Rafpberry-brandy  made  thus  i^  a 
very  excellent  dram. 

Orange  Wike.  Take  twelve  pounds  of  the  beft  pow- 
der fugar,  with  the  white*  of  eight  or  ten  eggs  wefi 
beaten^  into  fix  gallons  of  fpring  water^  and  boiJ 
three  quarters  of  an  hour ;  when  it  is  cold,  put  into 
it  fix  fpoonfuk  of  yeaft,  and  alio  the  juice  of  twelve  le- 
nions,  which  being  pared  muft  ftand  with  two  pounds 
of  white  fugar  in  a  tankard,  and  in  the  morning  fkim 
off  the  top>  and  then  put  it  into  th^  water  1  then  add 
the  juice  and  rinds  of  fifty  oranges,  but  not  the  white 
parts  of  the  rinds,  and  fo  let  it  work  aH  together  two 
days  and  two  nights  i  then  add  two  quarts  of  Rhenilh 
or  white  wine,  and  put  it  into  your  reflel. 

Orange  Wine  with  Raifins.  Take  thirty  pounds  of 
Makga  raifins  picked  clean,  chop  them  fmall ;  you 
muft  have  twenty  large  Seville  oranges>  ten  of  them 
you  muft  pare  as  thin  as  for  prefcrving ;  boil  about 
eight  gallons  of  foft  water  till  a  third  part  be  confumed> 
let  it  cool  a  little,  then  put  five  gallons  of  it  hot  upon 
your  raifins  and  orange-peel ;  ftir  it  well  together>  cover 
it  up,  and  when  it  is  cold,  let  itIRand  five  days,  flir« 
ring  it  once  or  twice  a  day,  then  pafs  it  throu^  a  hair- 
fieve,  and  with  a^  fpoon  prefs  it  as  dry  as  yoi|^can,  pur 
it  in  a  rundlet*  fit  for  it,  and  put  to  it  the  rind  of 
the  other  ten  oranges,  cut  as  thin  as  the  firft ;  then 
make  a  fyrup  of  the  juice  of  twenty  oranges,  with  a 
pound  of  white  fugar.  It  muft  be  made  the  day  before 
you  tun  it  up  i  ftir  it  well  together,  and  ftop  it  clofc  ^ 
let  it  ftand  two  montlis  to  clear,  then  bottle  it  up.  It 
will  keep  three  years,  and  is  bettqr  for  keeping. 

To 


>s 


"•■^ 


WINES.  J07 

To  make  Goofeberty  Wine.  Gather  your  goofeberries 
in  dry  weather,  when  they  are  half  ripe,  pick  them, 
and  bruife  a  peck  in  a  tub/  with  a  wooden  mallet  i 
then  take  a  horfe-hair  cloth,  and  prefs  them  as  much  as 
polfible,  without  breaking  the  feeds.  When  you  have 
prcfled  out  all  the  juice,  to  every  gallon  of  goofeber- 
ries put  three  pounds  of  fine  dry  powder  fugar ;  ftir  it  - 
all  together  till  the  fugar  is  all  diflblved,  then  put  it  in 
a  veffel.or  caflc,  which  muft  be  quite  full.  If  ten  or 
twelve  gallons,  let  it  ftand  a  fortnight ;  if  a  twenty  gal- 
lon calk,  let  it  ftand  five  weeks*  Set  it  in  a  cool  place, 
then  draw  it  off  from  the  lees,  clear  the  veffel  of  the 
lees  and  pour  in  the  clear  liquor  again.  If  it  be  a  ten 
gallon  caik,  let  it  ftand  three  months ;  if  a  twenty  gal- 
Ion,  four  or  five  months,  then  bottle  it  off. 

Attothir  way.  Put  three  pounds  of  lump  fugar  to  a 
gallon  of  water,  boil  it  a  quarter  of  arf*hour,  and  Ikim 
it  very  well,  then  let  it  ftand  till  it  is  almoft  coW,  and 
take  four  quarts  of  full-ripe  goofeberries,  bruife  them 
in  a  marble  mortar,  and  put  them  in  your  veflcl  j  then 
pour  in  the  liquor,  and  let  it  ftand  two  days,  and  ftir  it 
every  four  hours  5  fteep  half  an  ounce  of  ifinglafs  two  " 
days  in  a  pint  of  brandy,  flrain  the  wine  through  a 
flannel-bag  into  the  cafk,  then  beat  the  ifinglafs  in  a 
marble  mortar  with  five  whites  of  eggs  j  then  whifk 
them  together  half  an  hour,  and  put  it  in  the  wine,  and 
beat  them  all  together ;  clofe  up  your  cafk,  and  put 
clay  over  it  j  let  it  ftand  fix  nwnths,  then  bottle  it  off 
for  ufe  'j  put  in  each  botde  a  lump  of  fugar,  and  two 
rai£ns  of  the  fun.  This  is  a  very  rich  wine,  and  when 
it  has  been  kept  in  botdes  two  or  three  years,  will 
drink  like*  channpaigne, 

T  1 1  a  "^Cumlp 


5o8  woodcocks; 

Turnip  Wine.  Pare  and  flice  a  quantity  of  turnips, 
and  put  them  in  a  cyder-prefs,  and  prcls  out  all  the 
juice.  To  every  gallon  of  juice,  allow  three  pounds  of 
lump  fugar.  Have  a  veflel  ready,  large  enough  to 
hold  the  juice,  put  your  fugar  into  the  veflel,  and  half  a 
pint  of  brandy  to  every  gallon  of  juice.  Pour  in  the 
juice,  and  lay  fomething  over  the  bung  for  a  week,  to 
fee  if  it  works ;  if  it  does,  you  mull  not  bung  it  down 
till  it  has  done  workings  then  ftop  it  clofe  for  three 
months,  and  draw  it  off  in  another  veffcl :  when  it  is 
fine,  bottle  it  off. 

Cowjlip  W iJiJE.  Take  two  pounds  and  a  half  of 
powder  lugar,  and  two  gallons  of  water ;  boil  them  half 
an  hour,  taking  care  to  ikim  it  as  the  fcum  rifes; 
then  pour  it  into  a  tub  to  cool,  adding  to  it  die  rind 
of  two  lemons ;  when  cold,  put  four  quarts  of  the 
flowers  of  cowflips  to  the  liquor,  and  the  juice  of 
two  lemons.  Let  it  ftand  in  the 'tub  two  days,  ob- 
ferving  to  ftir  it  every  two  or  three  hours ;  then  put  it 
in  the  barrel,  and  after  it  has  flood  about  three  weeks, 
or  a  month,  botde  it,  not  forgetting  to  put  a  lump  of 
fugar  into  each  botde. 


WOODCOCKS. 

To  roajl  Woodcocks  or  Snipes.  Having  put 
your  birds  on  a  little  fpit,  take  a  round  of  a  three- 
penny loaf  and  toaft:  it  brown;  lay  it  in  a  difli  under 
the  birds,  and  when  you  lay  them  down  to  the  fire, 
bafte  them  with  a  little  butter,  and  let  the  trail  drop 
on  the  toafl:.    When  they  arc  roafted  enough,  put  the 

toaft 


\ 


.yt 


WOMEN.  509 

toaft  in  the  dilh,  and  lay  the  birds  on  it.  '  Pour  about 
a  quarter  of  a  pint  of  gravy  into  the  difli,  and  fet  it 
over  a  lamp  or  chafing-difti  for  three  or  four  minutes, 
when  the  whole  will  be  in  a  prpper  condition  to  be  fcnt 
to  the  table.  Obferve  never  to  take  any  thing  out  of  4 
woodcock  or  fnipe. 


W  O  M  E  N — Disorders  of. 

When  a  female  has  arrived  at  that  period  of  IJfe  when 
the  MENSES  ufually  begin  to  flow,  and  they  do  not  ap- 
pear, but,  on  the  contrary,  her  health  and  Ipirits  be- 
gin to  decline,  we  would  advife,  inftead  of  fhutting  the 
poor  girl  up  in  the  houfe,  and  dofing  her  with  ftee^ 
afafoetida,  and  other  naufeous  (Jrugs,  to  place  her  in  2, 
fituation  where  Ihe  can  enjoy  the  benefit  of  free  air  and 
agreeable  company;  there  let  her  eat  wholefbmc 
food,  take  fufficient  exercife,  and  amufe  herfelf  in  the 
moft  agreeable  manner ;  and  we  have  little  reafbn  to 
fear,  but  nature,  thus  ailifted,  will  do  her  proper 
work.  Indeed  ihe  feldom  fails,  unlels  where  the  fault 
is  on  our  fide. 

This  difcharge,  in  the  beginning,  is  feldom  fo  in- 
ftantaneous  as  to  furpriie  females  unawares ;  it  is  gene- 
rally preceded  by  fymptoms  which  foretel  its  approach  ; 
as  a  fenfe  of  heat,  weight,  and  dull  pain  in  the  loins ; 
diftendon  and  hardnefs  of  the  breads ;  head-ach ;  lois  of 
appetite;  lalfitude;  paleneis  of  the  countenance;  and 
fometimesa  flight  degree  of  fever.  When  thefe  fymptoms 
appear  about  the  age  at  which  the  menftrual  flux  ufually 
beginsj  every  thing  Ihould  |pe  carefully  avoided  which 

may 


I 


J 


510  WOMEN. 

may  obftrud  that  neceflary  and  ialutaiy  evacu^doii) 
and  all  means  ufed  to  promote  it ;  as  fitting  frequently 
over  the  fleam  of  warm  water^  drinking  warm  diluting 
liquors^  &c« 

After  the  menfes  have  once  begun  to  flow,  the  greatcft 
care  Ihould  be  taken  to  avoid  every  thing  that  may 
tend  to  obftruA  them.  Females  ought  to  be  exceeding 
cautious  of  what  they  eat  or  drink  at  the  time  they  arc 
out  of  order.  Every  thing  that  is'  cold,  or  apt  to /our 
on  the  ftomach,  ought  to  be  avoided  ;  as  fruit,  butter- 
milk, and  fuch  like.  Fifh,  and  all  kinds  of  food  that 
arc  hard  of  digeftion,  are  alfo  to  be  avoided.  As  it  is 
impofTible  (x>  mention,  every  thing  that  may  di/agree 
with  individuals  at  this  time,  we  would  recommend  it  to 
every  fdnale  to  be  very  attentive  to  what  difagrees 
with  hcrfelf,  and  carefully  to  avoid  it. 

From  whatever  caufe  this  flux  is  obfbiiAed,  except 
in  the  fbite  of  pregnancy,  proper  means  fhould  be  ufed 
to  rcftore  it.  For  this  purpofe,  we  would  i^commend 
(ufEcient  exercile  in  a  dry,  open^  and  rather  cool  air  $ 
wholefbme  diet,  and  if  the  body  be  weak  and  languid^' 
generous  liquors  {  alfo  cheerfiil  company,  and  all  man- 
ner of  amufements.  If  thefe  fail,  recourfe  muft  be  had 
to  medicine. 

When  obfh-u6tions  proceed  from  a  weak  relaxed  ftace 
of  the  Iblids,  fuch  medicines  as  tend  to  promote  digef- 
tion, to  brace  Ac  folids,  and  aflUl  the  body  in  prepar- 
ing good  blood,  ought  to  be  ufed.  The  principal  of 
thefe  are  iron,  and  the  Peruvian  bark,  with  all  other 
bitter  and  aflringent  medicines.  "  Filings  of  iron  may 
be  infufcd  in  wine  or  ale,  two  or  three  ounces  to  an 
Englifli  quart,  and  after  it  has  ftood  for  two  or  three 

weeks,  * 


WORMS.  '511 

weeks^  it  may  be  filtered ;  about  half  a  wine  glafs  of 
it  taken  twice  a-day  :  or  prepared  fteel  may  be  taken 
in  the  dofe  of  half  a  dram^  mixed  with  a  little  honey, 
or  treacle,  three  or  four  times  a-day.  The  bark,  and 
other  bitters,  may  either  be  taken  in  fubftance,  or  in- 
fufion,  as  is  mod:  agreeable  to  the  patient. 

But  the  menflrual  flux  may  be  too  great,  as  well  as 
too  fmall :  when  this  happens^  .the  patient  becomes 
weak,  the  cobur  pale,  the  appetite  and  digeftion  arc 
bad,  and  oedematous  fwellings  of  the  feet,  dropfies, 
and  confumptions  enfue.  This  frequendy  happens  to 
women  about  the  age  of  forty-five  or  fifty,  and  is  very 
difficult  to  cure.  It  may  proceed  from  a  iedentary  life, 
a  fiill  diet,  confifting  chiefly  of  faked,  high-feafoned,  or 
acrid  food ;  the  ufe  of  fpirituous  liquors ;  exceflive  fa- 
tigue i  relaxation  -,  a  diflfolved  ftate  of  the  blood  j  vio- 
fcnt  paflSons  of  the  mind,  &c. 

The  treatment  of  this  difeafe  muft  be  varied  accord* 
ing  to  its  caufe.  When  it  is  occafioned  by  any  error 
,  in  the  patient's  regimen,  an  oppofite  courfe  to  that 
which  induced  the  diforder  muft  be  purfued,  and  fuch 
medicines  taken  as  have  a  tendency  to  reib-ain  the  fluXj 
and  counteract  the  morbid  aflfedions  of  the  lyftem 
from  whence  it  proceeds. 


WORMS. 

In  general,  the  moft  proper  medicines  for  the  expul^ 

fion  of  worms  are  ftrong  purgatives  j   and  to  prevent 

their  breeding,  ftomachic  bitters,   with  now  and  then 

8  glai^  of  good  wine* 

3  The 


1 


"5 


W    O    R    M    S, 


The  beft  purge  for  an  adult  is  jalap  and  caloird. 
Five-and-twenty  or  thirty  grams  of  the  former,  with  fix 
or  feven  of  the  latter,  mixed  in  fyrup,  may  be  taken 
early  in  the  morning,  for  a  dofe.  It  may  be  proper 
that  the  patient  keep  the  houfe  all  day,  and  drink  no- 
thing cold.  The  dole  may  be  repeated  once  or  twice 
a- week,  for  a  formight  or  three  weeks.  On  the  inter- 
mediate days,  the  patient  may  take  a  dram  of  the 
powder  of  tin,  twice  or  thrice  a-day,  mixecf  with  fyrup, 
honey,  or  treacle. 

Thofe  who  do  not  chufe  to  take  calomel,^  may  make 
ufe  of  the  bitter  purgatives ;  as  aloes,  hicra  picra,  tine-* 
tare  of  fenna,  and  rhubarb,  &c. 


^•' 


FINIS. 


