BOSTON  PUBLIC  LIBRARY 

illllllliliilllllllllllll 

3  9999  07801  030  1 


'• 

-♦v^ 


G-i  ve:  n    B  y 


^^xj  ^  CN>  *    v^NjiSkAj 


^ 


t.:^- 


WC  NOV  10 


^  ^.  ^ 


1909 


C^^EB  71 


'y 


3 


A 


iltl    -i> 


eV^y'V^ 


Digitized  by  the  Internet  Archive 
in  2013 


http://archive.org/details/everyladyscookboOOcrow 


^mm^wmitmm 


^ 

t 


EVERY 


LADY'S  COOK  BOOK.    1 


BY 


RS.    T.  J.    CROWEN, 


AUTHOR  OF  AMERICAN  LADY  S  COOK  BOOK,  ETC. 


NEW  AND  GREATLY  IMPROVED  EDITION. 


NEW   YORK: 

KIGGINS  AND  KELLOGG. 

123  k  125  William  St. 

1856. 

mmmwM 


EVERY 


LADY'S  COOK  BOOK. 


BY 


MRS.    T.  J.    CR-0WEN. 


AUTHOR  OF  AMEHICAN  LADT^S  COOK  BOOK,  ETO« 


SEW  AND  GEEATLY  IMPEOVED  EDITION. 


NEW  YORK : 

KIGGINS  &  KELLOGG,  PUBLISHERS 

No?.  123  &  125,  William  St., 

Between  Jolin  &  Fulton, 


c? 


/. 


Entered  according  to  Act  of  Congress,  in  the  year  1854,  by 

KIGWJIXS  AND  KELLOGG, 

In  the  Clerk's  Office  of  the  District  Court  of  the  United  States,  for  the  Southern 

District  of  New  York. 


■VriLLIAM   n.   SHAIX   &  CO., 
HUDSON  STZEEOTYPZ  FcUNDBl 


PKEEACE, 


Every  Lady's  Cook  Book^  as  its  name  indicates,  has 
been  written  for  all  classes  of  people  :  both  for  those  who 
desire  rich,  well-seasoned  dishes^  and  for  those  who  prefer 
more  plain  diet. 

How  to  prepare  the  articles  of  food  in  general  use  in  the 
nicest  and  most  appetizing  manner,  without  being  an  extreme 
in  either  way,  has  been  the  object  of  the  author,  and  success 
has  so  far  attended  the  effort,  that  an  appreciating  public 
has  given  it  the  most  unmistakable  approval  in  the  almost 
unprecedented  sale  the  book  has  met  with ;  over  two  hundred 
thousand  copies  having  already  been  sold. 

These  receipts  may  be  followed  to  the  letter,  and  success 
insured.  It  many  not  here  be  amiss  to  say,  that  the  author 
has  had  the  pleasure  of  receiving  letters  from  persons  (en- 
tire strangers)  in  different  parts  of  the  United  States,  express- 
ing their  extreme  satisfaction  in  the  possession  of  receipts 
which  they  found  to  be  of  such  practical  value.  She  trusts 
the  present  volume,  which  has  many  valuable  additions,  may 
be  received  with  no  diminution  of  public  favor. 


CONTENTS  — PART  I. 


Albany  Br'kfast  Cakes  59 

Almond  Cake 28 

"  Drop  Cakes...  32 
"  Macaroons....  35 
«       Pound  Cake..  30 

•<        Pudding 56 

Apples  in  Jelly 47 

Apple  Jelly 40 

Batter  Pudding 57 

Bisc't&  Jelly  Sandwich  24 

Blanc  Mange 39 

Bride  Cake 14 

Calves'  Feet  Jelly 40 

Chicken  Salad 75 

Chocolate 51 

Citron  Comp.  Cake 17 

"      Pudding ,  57 

Cocoarnut  Cup  Cake....  21 

"         Drops 35 

"         Grated 48 

"  Macaroons.  36 
"         Pound  Cake  29 

"         Pudding 57 

"         SpongeCake  21 

Coflfee 51 

"     French 52 

Composition  Cake 16 

Crackers 13 

Cranberry  Jelly 46 

Cream  Cake 23,  28 

"      Tea  Cakes 13 

Crullers 19,  20 

Crumpets 13 

Cup  Cake,  Common....  19 
"       "      Molasses....  21 

Curd  Cakes 33 

Currant  Ice  Water 45 

Custard 68 

Democratic  Tea  Cakes  31 

Diet  Biscuit 22 

"    Bread 34 

Drop  Cakes 25 

Doughnuts 20 

Domestic  Cakes 30 

Egg  Rusk 29 

Floating  Island 56 

French  Rolls 12 

"       Tea  Cakes 22 

Pried  Cakes 18 

1 


Frosting.  Ornamental..  38 

Fruitcake 15 

"     Candied 44 

Gingerbread,  Soft 27 

Hasty  Pudding 56 

Heart  Cakes 17 

Hickory  Nut  Cakes 30 

Honey  Cake 23 

Ham  or  Tongue 52 

Ice  Cream,  To  make...  41 

Icing  for  Cakes 38 

Indian  Meal  Cakes 12 

"      Muffins 12 

Isinglass,  To  Clarify...  38 

Ivory  Dust  Jelly 45 

Jaun  Mange 45 

Jumbles 19,  25 

Kisses 30 

Kringles 35 

Lafayette  Cake 34 

Lemon  Cream 46 

"      Drop  Cakes 33 

"      &.  OrangeSugar  43 
"      or     "     Water  43 

"      Pudding 55 

"      Sherbert 46 

«      or  Van.  I.  Cr'm  43 

Lemonade  Syrup 47 

Loaf  Cake 24 

Love  Cakos 37 

Marlborough  Cakes 34 

Mince  Pies 58 

Mock  Cream 53 

Molasses  Candy 48 

"         Fruit  Cake...  16 

Mottoes 49 

Mrs.  Madison's  Whim  17 

Muffins 13 

Naples  Biscuit 24 

New  Year's  Cakes 34 

Nothings 25 

Orange  or  Lemon  Juice, 

Tokeep 41 

Orange  Sherbert 43 

"       Water  Ice 41 

Oranges,  To  preserve..  41 

in  Jelly 47 

Paste  Cakes,  or  Jelly 
Tarts 27 


Paste  Pudding 56 

"     and  Puff  Paste...  54 

"      Puffs 26 

Plum  Cake 16 

"     Pudding 54 

"    Pudding,  Cbristr 

mas 54 

Pound  Cake 18 

"      Cakes,  small....  31 

Prune  Pudding 56 

Puddings 52 

Puftets 23 

Pumpkin  Pie? 58 

Pyramid  of  Cocoa-nut 

Drops,  &c 49 

Quaking  Pudding 57 

Queen  Cake 32 

Rice  Cake 26 

"    Paste  Cakcfs 13 

Rich  Small  Cake 19,  31 

Rose  Jelly,  Acidulated  47 

Saleratus  Cakes 32 

Sandwiches 50 

Savoy  Biscuit 29 

Scotch  Cakes 30 

Short  Cakes,  Common  14 

Snow  Balls 55 

Soda  Cakes 28 

Sponge  Cake 33,  34 

Strawberry  Ice  Cream  45 

Sugar.  To'Clarify 44 

SweetPaste  Jelly  Tarts  27 
Sugar    "      Cr'm     "      27 

Tea  Cup  Cake 28 

"   Rusk 14 

ThanksgivingTea  Cake  32 

Trifles 25 

Yanilla  Whipped  Cr'm  43 

Velvet  Cakes 12 

Wafers 22 

"      and  Jelly 22 

WafSes 24 

Washington  Cake 23 

Wheat  Bread 11 

Whig  Cakes 31 

White  Cakes 34 

Wine  Jelly 41 

"      Sangaree 4S 

Yeast  Wafers 23 


PAET    II. 


Beef  and  Veal. 

Baked  Beef 93 

XJeef  Bouiiie 95 

"    Cakes 96 

"    Heart,  baked  or 

roasted 98 

"    Salted,  for  imme- 
diate use 94 

"    for  roasting 92 

"     Skirts 96 

«     Steaks 97 

"     Steak  Pie 98 

"         "     Pudding...  98 

"     Tripe 99 

Breast  of  Veal 102 

Boiled  Veal 101 

Calf's  Head 103 

Corned  Beef. 94 

Hashed   "    95 

«      Veal 101 

Neck  of  Veal 102 

Ox-Head  Cheese 100 

Pickled  Beef 96 

Potted  Head 100 

Round  of  Beef  stewed..  94 

Smoked  Beef... 95 

Stewed       "    96 

Veal  Broth 101 

"    Fritters 101 

"     Sausages 101 

"     Sweetbreads 102 

EsgrS)  Fufldines, 
Pies,  etc. 

Apple  Bread  Pudding..l39 

"      Dumpling 139 

"      Fritters 139 

«     Pies 141 

"     Pudding 141 

"      Puflfs 143 

"      Tart 141 

Batter  for  Apple  Frit- 
ters  141 

Brown  Betsey 139 

Cherry  Pie 142 

Custard,  Common 138 

"       Pie 142 

Dried  Cherry  Pie 142 

"     Fruit        "   142 

Dumplings,  Hard 138 

Eggs, 136,  137 

Farina  Pudding 143 

Good  Sauce 139 

Hasty  Pudding 138 

Paste    Pudding,   with 

Fruit , 133 

Peach  Pie  or  Pudding.142 
Plum  Pie 142 


Rhubarb  Pie 142 

Rich  Pie  Crust 141 

Superior  Lemon  Pie. ...143 

Wiue  Sauce 138 

Yeast  Dumplings. 139 

Fish. 

Black  Fish 81 

Chowder 83,  84 

Chub 83 

Codfish 77,  78 

"      Balls 79 

Eels 75,  76 

Flounders 74,  75 

Haddocks 79 

Halibut 83 

Herring 82 

Mackerel 80,  81 

Perch 82 

Salmon 72,  73,  74 

Sea  Bass 82 

Shad 79,  80 

Striped  Bass 81 

Sturgeon 82 

Shell  Fish. 

Clams 86,  87 

Crabs 85 

Lobsters 84,  85 

Mussels 91 

Oysters 88,  89,  90 

liamb. 

Broiled  Breast.. 110 

Haslet,  Hashed 112 

Lamb        "        110 

'•        Pot  Pie Ill 

"    stewed  with  Peaslll 
Quarter  of  Lamb 110 

Meat  Pies. 

Pork  Pie 104 

Potato"  104 

Veal     "    103 

"    Pot  Pie 103 

Mutton. 

Breast  of,  Broiled 113 

Broiled  Mutton  Steaks  116 

Leg  of  Mutton 114 

''     "      "       stuffed...ll4 

Loin  of  Mutton 114 

Mutton  Collops 113 

"       Cutlet  Sjbr'ded  113 

«       Hams 116 

"       Pastry,  to  eat 

like  Venison.114 
«       Pie 115 


Mutton  Slices  in  Cr'm..ll6 
"       Steaks,  stewed  113 

Neck  of  Mutton 114 

Shoulder  of  Mut'n  115,116 

Pickles,     Mangoes* 
Vecetables,   tfec. 

Asparagus 130,  131 

Artichokes 132 

Beans,  Dried 135 

Beets 1.33 

Cabbage 135 

Carrots 130 

Celery 134 

Cucumbers 132 

'•         Pickled 127 

Egg  Plant 131 

Green  Peas 134 

"    or  Str'gd  Beans..l34 

Hominy  135 

Lettuce 135 

Lima  Beans 133 

Melon  Mangoes 126 

Nasturtions,  To  pickle.125 
Onions 132 

"    To  pickle 126 

Parsnips 129 

Pickled  Peaches 126 

"       Plums 127 

Potatoes 128 

Radishes 134 

Rice 135 

Salsify, or  Oyster  Plant  132 

Spinach 130 

Squashes,  or  Cymlines  130 

Sweet  Corn 133 

Tomatoes 131 

Fork)  Hani)  <&c. 

Hog's  Head,  Pickled...  109 

Loin,  To  Roast 106 

Leg  of  Pork,  To  Roast.106 

Pig's  Head  Cheese 105 

Pig  to  taste  as  Lamb. ..108 

Pig's  Feet  Pie 109 

Pork,  Tender  Loin 108 

Roast  Pig 107 

Sauces  for  Roast  Pig. ..108 

Soused  Pig's  Feet 109 

Spring  orlland  of  PorklOT 

To  Bake  a  Pig 107 

To  Choose  Pork 104 

To  Dress  Fresh  Pork.. .106 
To  Stew  Fresh    "     ...108 

Poultry,  &c. 

rown  Fricassee 120 

Chicken  Fritters 119 


CONTENTS. 


Cliicken   and   Turkey 

Pattie? 120 

Chickens,  Pulled 119 

Fricassee  of  Chicken. ..120 

Game 119 

Goose 117 

Pigeon  or  Bird's  Cut- 
lets  117 

Babbits 117 

To  Broil  Birds 117 

Wild  Fowl 120 

Preserves. 

Apple  Jelly 124 

Baked  Pears 121 

Candied  Orange  Peel. ..121 

Currant  Jelly 124 

Grapes 124 

Peach  Preserves 121 

Peaches  in  Brandy. ...122 
Pine-apples    preserved 
without  Cooking 125 


Pippins  in  Slices 122 

Quinces 123 

To  Stev?  Dried  Fruit...  125 
■Watermelon  Preserved  123 

Soups. 

Beef  Broth 70 

Cabbage  Soup 64 

"       &  Milk  Soup.  65 
Catfish  or  Bullh'd  Soup  68 

Chicken  Soup 63,  64 

Clam  "     68 

Eel  «     69 

Egg  Balls  for  Soup 67 

Green  Bean  Soup 67 

«     Pea       "     65 

Lobster  "     61 

Macaroni         "     70 

Mock  Turtle  "    66 

Mutton  Broth 61 

"       Soup 66 

Onion      « 66 


Ox-Head  Soup 67 

Oyster      "    61 

Pea  "    06 

Savoy        "    62 

Shin  of  Beef  Soup 65 

Soup  for  Lent 67 

Soup  Maigre 68 

Soup  vrithout  Meat...  69 
Stock  for  Gravy  Soup..  62 

Strong  Fish  Gravy 69 

Turtle   Soup 62 

Vermicelli" 70 

Venison. 

Breast  of  Venison 117 

To  choose  Venison 116 

Venison    Steaks 117 

ninte  on  the  Etiquette 

of  the  Dinner  Table  147 
CaxTing 15? 


UECEIPTS 


roB 


MAKING   AND   BAKING  CAKES. 


INTRODUCTORY  REMARKS. 


Receipts  of  this  description  are  usually  accompanied 
with  such  a  formidable  array  of  directions  and  unnecessary 
preliminaries,  as  to  bewilder  and  discourage  a  beginner.  In 
preparing  these,  the  great  object  has  been,  to  simplify,  as 
much  as  possible,  the  process. 

All  receipts  herein  contained,  will  be  found  to  be  just 
what  they  are  represented;  and  give  full  satisfaction  if 
strictly  followed.  A  great  number  of  them  have  never  be- 
fore been  in  print,  but  are  the  result  of  the  experience  of 
practical  housewives. 

In  making  cakes,  if  you  wish  them  to  be  pleasing  to  the 
eye,  as  well  as  the  palate,  use  double-refined  white  sugar ; 
although  clean  brown  sugar  makes  an  equally  good  cake. 

For  variety  you  may  try  each,  and  so  make  two  sorts  from 
the  same  receipt ;  that  is,  take  a  receipt,  and  if  you  please, 
divide  the  ingredients,  or  make  a  double  quantity,  making 


8  EVERY    lady's    BOOK. 

the  one  with  white  and  the  other  with  brown  sugar,  and  fla- 
vor with  lemon  and  rose. 

In  receipts  in  which  milk  is  used  as  one  ingredient,  either 
sweet  or  sour  may  be  used,  but  not  a  mixture  of  both,  as 
that  has  a  tendency  to  make  the  cake  heavy. 

None  but  good  sweet  butter  should  be  used  for  cake-mak- 
ing; if  the  batter  should  be  a  little  salt  it  will  do  no  harm. 

Butter  in  the  least  degree  rank  or  strong  will  spoil  any 
cake. 

It  is  well  as  a  general  rule  in  cake-making,  to  beat  the 
butter  and  sugar  (which  must  first  be  rolled  fine)  to  a  light 
cream ;  then  beat  the  eggs  until  you  can  take  up  a  spoonful ; 
that  is,  in  all  common  cakes  in  which  only  a  few  eggs  are 
used;  for  Sponge,  Pound,  or  other  fine  cakes,  follow  each 
particular  direction. 

Cake  mixture  cannot  be  beaten  too  much.  It  is  not 
enough  to  beat  it  whilst  mixing ;  but  the  operation  should 
be  continued  after  ail  the  parts  are  added,  until  the  whole  is 
light  and  creamy. 

Before  beginning  to  mix  a  cake,  see  that  all  of  the  ingre- 
dients are  before  you ;  otherwise  by  omitting  one  or  more 
you  may  spoil  your  cake. 

An  earthen  basin  is  the  best  for  beating  eggs  or  cake  mix- 
ture in. 

Cake  should  be  beaten  with  a  wooden  spoon  or  spatula, 
like  an  old-fashioned  pudding-stick ;  butter  may  bo  beaten 
with  the  same. 

Eggs  should  be  beaten  with  rods  or  a  broad  fork  ;  a  silver 
fork,  or  one  made  of  iron  wire  is  best,  as  it  is  broadest. 
Eggs  must  be  perfectly  fresh. 

Almonds  for  macaroons  and  other  cakes  should  be  pounded 
in  a  marble  mortar,  or  one  of  hard  wood  (lignum  vitae). 


EVERY    lady's   BOOK.  9 

To  blanch  almonds,  pour  boiling  water  on  them,  until  the 
sldns  are  easily  removed,  then  throw  them  into  cold  water 
to  whiten  them ;  drain  them  from  the  water  to  pound  them, 
but  do  not  wipe  them  dry,  as  the  water  will  prevent  their 
oiling. 

To  ascertain  whether  a  cake  is  done,  if  it  is  a  small  one, 
take  a  broom  splint  and  run  it  through  the  thickest  part ;  if 
it  is  not  done  there  will  be  some  of  the  dough  sticking  to  it ; 
if  done,  it  will  come  out  clean.  If  the  cake  is  large,  take 
a  teaspoon  handle,  or  small  knife-blade,  instead  of  the  broom 
splint,  and  run  it  through  the  thickest  part. 

An  oven,  to  bake  well,  must  have  a  regular  heat  through- 
out, but  particularly  a  good  heat  at  the  bottom,  without 
which  a  cake  will  not  rise.  It  is  quite  as  often  the  case  that 
a  cake  is  spoiled  in  baking  as  in  making.  If  you  are  not 
quite  sure  of  having  a  cake  well  baked  at  home,  that  is,  a 
large  one,  send  it  to  a  competent  family  baker.  Small 
cakes,  such  as  drop-cakes,  jumbles,  &c.,  bake  well  in  sum- 
mer ovens ;  these  should  be  often  looked  to,  as  the  side  near- 
est the  fire  will  first  be  done ;  when  they  are  so,  either  turn 
the  pan  about,  or  remove  them. altogether,  putting  the  unfin- 
ished ones  in  their  places,  and  fresh  ones  in  the  place  of 
them. 

These  ovens  also  bake  pies  well.  Bakers  do  not  generally 
give  these  proper  care,  frequently  drying  them  so  completely 
as  to  spoil  them,  particularly  mince  or  pumpkin  pies. 

For  baking  plum  cake,  or  other  large  cakes,  have  round 
tin  pans  with  sides  nearly  perpendicular,  line  them  with 
white  paper  buttered,  and  fill  them  two  or  three  inches  deep 
of  the  cake  mixture,  but  not  more.  Pans  with  straight 
sides  bake  more  evenly,  and  are  more  easily  iced  than  slant- 
ing sides. 


10  EVERY   lady's   BOOK. 

In  using  saleratus  or  sal  volatile  for  cakes,,  it  must  be 
powdered,  and  measured,  and  dissolved  with  a  little  hot  wa- 
ter before  putting  it  to  the  cake. 

A  bit  of  volatile  salts  of  the  size  of  a  hickory  nut,  and  a 
piece  of  alum  of  the  same  size,  powdered  fine,  dissolved  and 
added  to  Pound  or  Sponge  cake  mixture,  will  insure  a  light 
cake.  It  is  much  used  by  cake-bakers.  It  is  generally  put 
with  the  beaten  eggs,  and  beaten  with  them  ten  minutes 
or  so. 

An  oven  for  bread-baking  should  be  as  hot  as  you  could 
bear  your  hand  in  for  twenty  seconds,  or  whilst  counting 
twenty. 

What  is  termed  in  these  receipts  a  quick  oven,  is  one  in 
which  you  could  hold  your  hand  no  longer  than  to  count 
twenty -five ;  in  a  slow  oven  you  could  hold  your  hand  to 
count  thirty.  Any  person  accustomed  to  baking  would  not 
require  the  above  rules. 

Cakes  to  be  kept  should  be  folded  in  a  linen  napkin  and 
put  in  a  stone  jar. 


EECEIPTS. 


To  MAKE  Wheat  Bread.  —  To  one  quart  of  warm  wa- 
ter  put  a  gill  of  good  yeast,  stir  in  flour  to  make  a  thin  bat- 
ter, and  let  it  stand  in  a  warm  place  all  night. 

Next  morning  put  seven  pounds  of  flour  in  a  wooden 
bowl  or  tray ,  heap  it  around  the  sides,  leaving  a  hollow  in 
the  center;  add  to  the  sponge  or  yeast  batter,  a  bit  of  vola- 
tile salts  the  size  of  a  small  nutmeg,  dissolved  in  hot  water, 
and  a  piece  of  alum  as  large  as  a  hickory  nut,  finely  pow- 
dered ;  stir  it  with  a  spoon  until  it  is  a  light  foam ;  then  pour 
it  into  the  hollow  of  the  flour ;  add  to  it  a  heaping  tablespoon- 
ful  of  salt,  and  a  quart  or  more  of  warm  ^  water ;  with  this, 
work  all  the  flour  into  a  dough ;  dip  your  hands  in  flour 
frequently,  to  keep  the  dough  from  sticking  to  them ;  work 
the  dough  well ;  when  it  is  a  smooth  mass,  divide  it  into 
two  or  three  loaves,  and  put  it  into  buttered  basins;  stick 
the  top  of  each  with  a  fork;  let  them  stand  for  one  hour; 
then  bake. 

The  rule  for  bread-baking  is  a  hot  oven,  and  one  hour ; 
if  the  loaves  are  large,  they  may  require  longer  baking.  If 
this  receipt  is  strictly  followed  there  can  be  no  failure. 

One  teaspoonful  of  saleratus  may  be  used  in  place  of  the 
volatile  salts  and  alum,  but  the  bread  is  not  as  white  or 


12  EVERY    lady's   BOOK. 

sweet.     When  the  volatile  salts  are  used,  more  than  a  quart 
of  water  will  be  necessary. 


French  Rolls.  —  Work  one  pound  of  butter  into  a 
pound  of  flour ;  put  to  it  one  beaten  egg,  two  tablespoon- 
fuls  of  yeast,  one  teaspoonful  of  salt,  and  as  much  warm 
milk  as  will  make  a  soft  dough ;  strew  flour  over ;  cover  it 
with  a  cloth,  and  set  it  in  a  warm  place  for  an  hour  or  more, 
until  light;  flour  your  hands  well;  make  it  in  small  rolls; 
bake  in  a  quick  oven. 


Velvet  Cakes.  —  To  one  quart  of  flour  put  a  pint  of 
warm  milk,  and  a  gill  of  yeast ;  stir  it  well ;  then  set  it  in 
a  warm  place  to  rise  for  two  hotrPs :  then  work  into  it  two 
large  tablespoonfals  of  melted  butter,  or  beef-dripping; 
flour  your  hands  well,  and  make  it  in  small  cakes ;  rub  a  bit 
of  butter  over  a  pan,  and  lay  them  in ;  dip  your  hand  in 
milk,  and  pass  it  over  the  tops  of  them ;  and  bake  in  a  quick 
oven. 


Indian  Meal  Breakfast  Cakes. — Pour  boiling  wa- 
ter into  a  quart  of  yellow  corn-meal ;  stir  it  until  it  is  wet ; 
then  add  two  well-beaten  eggs,  and  milk  enough  to  make  a 
thick  batter ;  measure  a  small  teaspoonful  of  dry  saleratus, 
and  dissolve  it  in  warm  water,  and  put  it  to  the  batter  with 
the  same  quantity  of  salt;  butter  square  tin  pans,  fill  them 
two-thirds  full,  and  bake  in  a  quick  oven  for  one  hour;  when 
done,  cut  it  in  small  squares,  and  serve  hot. 


Indlin  Muffins.  — Pour  boiling  water  into  a  quart  of 
yellow  corn-meal,  stir  it  well,  let  it  be  a  thick  batter ;  when 


EVERY   lady's   BOOK.  13 

it  is  cooled  a  little,  add  to  it  a  tablespoonfu;  of  yeast,  two 
eggs  well  beaten,  and  a  teaspoonful  of  salt ;  set  it  in  a  warm 
place  to  rise,  for  two  hours ;  then  butter  square  tin  pans, 
two-thirds  fill  them,  and  bake  in  a  quick  oven ;  when  done, 
serve  hot,  cut  in  squares ;  or  bake  as  wheat  muffins. 


Muffins.  —  Mix  two  pounds  of  flour  with  a  pint  of  warm 
milk,  two  eggs  well-beaten,  half  a  spoonful  of  melted  but- 
ter, and  half  a  gill  of  yeast ;  stir  it  well  together,  and  set  it 
in  a  warm  place  for  two  hours,  then  bake  on  a  griddle  in 
rings  two-thirds  full ;  then  when  one  side  is  done,  turn  the 
other. 


Rice  Paste  Cakes.  —  Rub  three  ounces  of  butter  into 
half  a  pound  of  rice  flour,  moisten  it  with  water,  work  it 
well,  and  roll  it  out  thin ;  then  cut  it  in  small  cakes,  and 
bake  in  a  quick  oven. 


Crumpets.  —  Put  half  a  gill  of  yeast  into  a  quart  of 
warm  milk,  with  a  teaspoonful  of  salt;  stir  in  flour  to  make 
a  good  batter ;  set  it  in  a  warm  place  to  rise ;  when  light, 
add  a  cup  of  melted  butter,  and  bake  as  muffins. 


Crackers.  —  One  pound  of  flour,  and  two  ounces  of  but- 
ter, mixed  to  a  stiff  paste  with  milk;  beat  it  smooth  with 
the  rolling-pin,  then  roll  it  thin,  and  cut  it  in  round  or 
square  cakes ;  prick  each  with  a  fork,  and  bake  on  tins. 


Cream  Tea  Cakes. — To  a  pound  of  flour,  put  a  pint  of 
sour  cream,  and  a  cup  of  butter;  dissolve  half  a  teaspoonful 
2 


1:4 


EVERY   LADY  S  BOOK. 


of  saleratus  in  a  little  hot  water,  and  put  to  it;  mix  it 
lightly,  flour  your  hands  well ;  make  it  out  in  small  cakes, 
each  about  the  size  of  an  egg ;  lay  them  close  in  a  buttered 
basin,  and  bake  in  a  quick  oven. 


Common  Short  Cakes.  —  Mix  two  pounds  of  flour  into 
a  paste  with  sour  milk  or  buttermilk ;  work  into  it  half  a 
pound  of  butter,  lard,  or  beef-dripping;  add  a  teaspoonful 
of  saleratus  (first  dissolved  in  hot  water),  and  a  teaspoonful 
of  salt;  make  it  as  soft  as  can  be  moulded  in  well-floured 
hands ;  butter  a  pan  and  lay  them  close ;  bake  in  a  quick 
oven.    If  lard  is  used  for  the  shortening,  add  rather  more  salt. 


Tea  Rusk.  —  One  pint  of  warm  milk ;  put  one  gill  of 
yeast;  make  it  a  dough  with  flour;  let  it  stand  to  rise; 
when  light,  add  a  cup  of  butter  and  a  teaspoonful  of  salera- 
tus, dissolved  in  water  (or,  in  the  place  of  saleratus,  use  a 
bit  of  sal  volatile,  the  size  of  a  small  nutmeg,  and  a  piece 
of  alum  of  the  same  size,  finely  ground). 

Flour  your  hands  well,  and  make  the  dough  in  cakes  the 
size  of  an  egg,  and  lay  them  close  in  a  buttered  basin ; 
bake  in  a  hot  oven ;  when  nearly  done,  wet  them  over  with 
milk  in  which  some  sugar  is  dissolved,  then  return  them  to 
the  oven  to  finish  baking;  doing  them  over  with  milk  gives 
them  a  fine  color. 


Rich  Bride  Cake.  —  Take  four  pounds  of  fine  flour ; 
dry  it;  four  pounds  of  sweet,  fresh  butter,  beaten  to  a 
cream;  and  two  pounds  of  white  sugar;  add  six  eggs  to 
every  pound  of  flour;  mace  and  nutmeg,  half  an  ounce  each ; 
pound  them  fine. 


EVEPvY   lady's   book.  15 

Wash  througli  several  waters  and  pick  clean  from  grit, 
four  pounds  of  currants ;  spread  them  on  a  thickly  folded 
cloth  to  dry;  stone  and  chop  four  pounds  of  raisins;  cut 
two  pounds  of  citron  in  slices  of  a  quarter  of  an  inch  thick- 
ness ;  and  chop  or  cut  in  slices  one  pound  of  almonds. 

Beat  the  yolks  of  the  eggs  with  the  sugar,  to  a  smooth  paste, 
beat  the  butter  and  flour  together,  and  add  them  to  the 
yolks  and  sugar ;  and  lastly,  add  the  spices,  half  a  pint  of 
brandy,  and  the  whites  of  the  eggs,  beaten  to  a  high  froth. 

Beat  the  cake  mixture  well  together ;  then  stir  into  it,  by 
degrees,  the  currants,  citron,  raisins,  and  almonds. 

Butter  the  pans,  line  them  with  paper,  and  put  the  mix- 
ture two  inches  deep  in  each. 

Bake,  according  to  the  depth  of  the  cakes,  three  or  four 
hours,  in  a  moderate  oven. 


Fruit  Cake.  —  Make  a  cake  of  one  pound  of  flour ;  one 
pound  of  sugar ;  three  quarters  of  a  pound  of  butter ;  and 
ten  eggs. 

First  beat  the  yolks  and  sugar  together;  then  add  the 
flour  and  butter,  beaten  to  a  cream;  and  lastly,  mix  in 
lightly  the  whites  of  the  eggs,  beaten  to  a  high  froth. 

Then  have  a  pound  and  a  half  of  raisins  stoned  and  chop- 
ped ;  two  pounds  of  currants,  well  washed,  picked  clean  and 
dried ;  one  pound  of  citron  cut  in  slips ;  mace  and  nutmeg, 
each  half  an  ounce ;  and  half  a  pint  of  brandy. 

Strew  half  a  pound  of  flour  over  the  currants  and  raisins, 
and  then  stir  them  well  into  the  cake. 

Line  tin  basins  with  buttered  paper,  fill  them  two  inches 
deep,  and  bake  in  a  moderate  oven  for  three  or  four 
hours. 


16  EVERY   lady's   BOOK. 

Plum  Cake.  —  One  pound  of  flour;  nine  eggs,  the 
whites  and  yolks  beaten  separately  ;  one  pound  of  butter ; 
half  a  pint  of  brandy ;  one  cup  of  molasses,  and  one  pound 
of  brown  sugar;  nutmegs  and  mace,  each  half  an  ounce. 

Beat  this  mixture  well;  then,  having  washed  and  dried 
three  pounds  of  currants,  and  stoned  and  chopped  three 
pounds  of  raisins,  strew  half  a  pound  of  flour  over  them ; 
rub  it  well  through  them,  and  then  stir  them  into  the  cake, 
with  a  pound  of  citron  cut  in  slips. 

Line  round  tin  pans  with  buttered  paper,  and  fill  them 
two  inches  deep  with  the  mixture. 

Bake  in  a  moderate  oven  for  three  or  four  hours. 


Molasses  Fruit  Cake.  —  Make  a  cake  of  two  cups  of 
butter ;  two  cups  of  molasses ;  two  eggs ;  one  cup  of  milk  or 
buttermilk ;  one  teaspoonful  of  saleratus,  or  volatile  salts 
(which  is  better) ;  a  gill  of  brandy ;  one  teaspoonful  of  essence 
of  lemon ;  two  nutmegs ;  and  flour  to  make  it  a  stiff  batter. 

Beat  it  well ;  then  add  one  pound  of  raisins,  stoned  and 
chopped ;  one  pound  of  currants,  well  washed,  and  dried  by 
the  fire ;  and  one  or  two  quarters  of  citron. 

Bake  in  a  quick  oven. 

This  is  a  fine  rich  cake,  easily  made,  and  not  expensive. 


Composition  Cake.  —  One  pound  of  sugar;  half  a 
pound  of  butter;  four  eggs;  one  cup  of  milk;  half  a  tea- 
spoonful of  saleratus,  or  volatile  salts,  dissolved  in  hot  wa- 
ter; half  a  nutmeg;  one  teaspoonful  of  essence  of  lemon, 
and  as  much  flour  as  will  make  a  stiff  batter. 

Beat  there  well  together ;  then  add  one  pound  of  currants 
or  chopped  raisins. 


EVERY   lady's    BOOK.  17 

Line  square  tin  pans  with  buttered  paper,  and  put  in  the 
mixture  an  inch  deep,  and  bake  in  a  quick  oven. 

When  cold,  cut  it  in  small  squares  or  oblong  pieces. 

To  ice  it,  take  it  from  the  pan  and  paper ;  turn  the  pan 
upside  down;  set  the  cake  on  it  to  ice;  when  the  icing  is 
done,  cut  the  cake. 


Mrs.  Madison's  Whim.  —  Two  pounds  of  flour;  two 
pounds  of  sugar ;  two  pounds  of  butter,  beaten  to  a  cream ; 
twelve  eggs,  the  yolks  beaten  with  the  sugar,  and  the  whites 
to  a  froth;  two  wiue-glasses  of  rose-water  or  brandy,  in 
which  lemon  rinds  have  been  steeped  ;  two  nutmegs  grated ; 
and  one  teaspoonful  of  saleratus,  dissolved  in  hot  water, 
or  volatile  salts,  in  the  place  of  saleratus,  as  it  will  make  a 
lighter  cake. 

Beat  it  well  together;  then  add  two  pounds  of  raisins, 
stoned  and  chopped. 

Bake  in  a  quick  oven. 

This  cake  is  good  for  three  months'  keeping. 


Heart  Cakes.  —  Beat  half  a  pound  of  butter  to  a  cream ; 
take  six  eggs ;  beat  the  whites  to  a  froth,  and  the  yolks  with 
half  a  pound  of  sugar  and  half  a  pound  of  flour ;  beat  these 
well  together;  then  add  a  wine-glass  of  brandy;  half  a 
pound  of  currants,  washed  and  dried ;  and  a  quarter  of  cit- 
ron, cut  in  slices.  Mix  it  well,  and  bake  in  small  heart- 
shaped  tins,  half-filled.  In  a  quick  oven,  fifteen  minutes 
will  bake  them 


Citron  Composition  Cake.  —  One  pound  and  a  half 
of  flour ;  one  pint  of  milk ;  one  pound  and  a  quarter  of  sugar ; 

2* 


18  EVERY   liADY'S  BOOK. 

three-quarters  of  a  pound  of  butter;  and  half  a  pound 
of  citron  cut  in  slips ;  one  teaspoonful  of  saleratus,  dissolved 
in  milk ;  and  four  well-beaten  eggs ;  add  half  a  nutmeg  and 
a  teaspoonful  of  essence  of  lemon.  Beat  the  whole  well  to- 
gether, and  bake  in  square  tin  pans,  in  a  quick  oven. 

When  cold,  cut  it  in  squares  or  diamonds,  and,  if  you  like, 
ice  it. 


Fried  Cakes.  —  One  quart  of  milk;  half  a  pound  of 
butter;  six  eggs,  and  two  pounds  of  sugar;  one  pound  of 
raisins,  one  teaspoonful  of  saleratus,  and  as  much  flour  as 
will  make  a  stiff  batter.     Beat  it  well,  and  fry  in  boiling  lard. 

Take  up  the  batter  by  spoonfuls,  and  drop  it  in  the  hot 
fat.  Each  spoonful  makes  a  cake.  If  the  fat  is  not  boiling 
hot,  the  cakes  will  absorb  it,  and  thereby  be  made  unfit  for 
eating.  If  too  hot,  they  will  be  too  dark  colored  —  try  it 
by  dropping  in  one.  Shake  the  pot  while  the  cakes  are  in, 
to  make  them  boil  evenly. 


Pound  Cake.  —  One  pound  of  flour;  one  pound  of 
sugar;  one  pound  of  butter;  and  eight  eggs;  one  tea- 
spoonful of  essence  of  lemon,  or  rose-water,  and  half  a 
nutmeg. 

Beat  the  butter  to  a  cream ;  beat  the  yolks  and  sugar  to- 
gether; then  add  them,  with  the  flour,  to  the  butter;  and, 
lastly,  add  the  whites  of  the  eggs,  beaten  to  a  high  froth. 
Continue  beating  the  mixture  until  the  oven  is  ready ;  line 
some  pound  or  square  tin  pans  with  buttered  paper;  put  in 
the  mixture  an  inch  and  a  half  deep,  and  bake  in  a  quick 
oven.  If  the  pans  are  square,  cut  the  cake  in  small  squares, 
when  cold. 


EVERY   lady's   BOOK.  19 

Rich  Small  Cake.  —  Three  eggs  3  three  tablespoonfuls 
of  butter;  ditto  of  sugar;  three  cups  of  fiour;  one  tea- 
spoonful  of  essence  of  lemon,  and  half  a  nutmeg;  work 
these  together,  roll  it  thin,  cut  it  in  small  cakes  and  bake. 


Jumbles.  —  Three  pounds  of  flour ;  one  pound  and  a 
half  of  butter;  one  pound  of  sugar;  and  six  well-beaten 
eggs ;  make  it  in  rings,  and  bake  in  a  quick  oven ;  when 
half-done,  strew  them  with  grated  loaf-sugar;  twelve  or  fif- 
teen minutes  bakes  them. 


Common  Jumbles.  —  One  cup  of  butter ;  two  cups  of 
sugar ;  one  cup  of  sour  milk ;  one  teaspoonful  of  saleratus, 
and  one  egg;  add  half  a  nutmeg  grated,  and  flour  enough 
to  make  it  so  as  to  mould  in  well-floured  hands.  Make  it 
in  thin  rings,  and  bake  in  a  quick  oven ;  grate  sugar  over, 
when  half  done ;  or  as  soon  as  taken  from  the  oven.  Fif- 
teen minutes  will  do  them. 


Common  Cup  Cake.  —  One  cup  of  butter ;  two  cups  of 
sugar ;  four  cups  of  flour ;  four  eggs ;  one  cup  of  sour  milk ; 
one  teaspoonful  of  saleratus  in  water ;  one  teaspoonful  of 
essence  of  lemon,  and  half  a  nutmeg.  Beat  the  mixture 
well.  Butter  a  couple  of  two  quart  basins  and  divide  the 
mixture  between  them.  Bake  it  in  a  quick  oven  for  three 
quarters  of  an  hour. 


Crullers.  —  One  pint  of  milk;  two  cups  of  sugar;  one 
cup  of  butter;  three  eggs;  one  teaspoonful  of  saleratus  dis- 
solved in  water ;  one  teaspoonful  of  salt,  and  half  a  nutmeg 
grated,  and  a  teaspoonful  of  essence  of  lemon ;  use  as  much 


20  EVERY    lady's    BOOK. 

flour  as  will  make  a  good  dough ;  flour  a  cake-board,  and 
roll  out  the  cake  about  half  an  inch  thick;  cut  them  accord- 
ing to  fancy,  and  fry  in  hot  fat.  (See  Fried  Cakes,  or 
Doughnuts.) 


Doughnuts.  —  Take  one  pound  of  flour;  a  quarter  of  a 
pound  of  butter ;  three-quarters  of  a  pound  of  brown  sugar, 
rolled  fine ;  one  nutmeg,  grated ;  one  teaspoonful  of  gi'ound 
cinnamon  ;  one  tablespoonful  of  brewers'  yeast;  make  it  into 
a  dough  with  warm  milk ;  sprinkle  flour  over  it,  and  cover  it 
with  a  cloth ;  set  it  in  a  warm  place  to  rise,  for  one  hour  or 
more.  When  light,  roll  it  out  to  .half  an  inch  thickness ; 
cut  it  in  squares  or  diamonds.  Have  a  small  iron  kettle 
half  filled  with  lard ;  let  it  be  boiling  hot.  Drop  in  a  bit 
of  the  dough  to  try  it;  if  it  is  a  fine  color,  drop  in  two  or 
three  of  the  cakes  at  once ;  keep  the  kettle  in  motion  all 
the  time  the  cakes  are  in,  else  the  lard  will  burn ;  when  the 
cakes  are  a  fine  color,  take  them  out  with  a  skimmer,  and 
lay  them  on  a  sieve  to  drain. 


Doughnuts. — One  pound  of  butter;  one  quart  of  sour 
milk ;  one  pound  and  a  quarter  of  sugar ;  five  eggs ;  one  tea- 
spoonful  of  saleratus,  and  as  much  flour  as  will  make  a 
smooth  dough;  flavor  with  essence  of  lemon  or  nutmeg; 
roll  it  half  an  inch  thick,  and  cut  it  in  squares  or  diamonds ; 
drop  them  in  boiling  lard;  when  they  are  a  fine  brown,  take 
them  from  the  fat  with  a  skimmer  and  lay  them  on  a  sieve 
to  drain. 


Crullers.  —  Two  pounds  of  flour ;  one  pound  of  butter ; 
one  pound  of  sugar;  six  eggs,  and  one  nutmeg,  grated; 


EVERY   lady's   BOOK.  21 

mix  them  well  together;  roll  half  an  inch  thick,  and  cut 
them  in  fancy  shapes,  or  make  them  in  rings,  and  finish  as 
the  last  receipt. 


Molasses  Cup  Cake.  —  Two  cups  of  molasses;  two 
cups  of  butter;  one  cup  of  milk;  one  teaspoonful  of  sale- 
ratus,  dissolved  in  a  little  hot  water ;  one  teaspoonful  of  es- 
sence of  lemon;  half  a  nutmeg,  and  two  eggs;  and  flour 
sufficient  to  make  it  stiff  as  you  can  stir  with  a  spoon ;  beat 
it  well.     Bake  in  a  quick  oven. 


CocoA-NuT  Cup  Cake.  —  Two  cups  of  sugar;  two  cups 
of  butter;  one  cup  of  milk;  one  teaspoonful  of  essence  of 
lemon  ;  one  teaspoonful  of  saleratus ;  half  a  nutmeg,  grated ; 
four  eggs,  and  the  white  meat  of  a  cocoa-nut  grated ;  use  as 
much  flour  as  will  make  a  stiff  batter;  beat  it  well;  butter 
square  tin  pans,  and  put  in  the  mixture  an  inch  deep;  bake 
in  a  quick  oven.  When  cold,  cut  it  in  small  squares.  This 
is  a  rich  cake,  and  is  improved  by  icing.  It  should  be 
made  with  white  sugar. 


CocoA-NuT  Sponge  Cake.  —  Beat  the  yolks  of  six 
eggs  with  half  a  pound  of  sugar,  and  a  quarter  of  a  pound 
of  flour;  add  a  teaspoonful  of  salt,  one  teaspoonful  of  es- 
sence of  lemon,  and  half  a  nutmeg,  grated ;  beat  the  whites 
to  a  froth,  and  stir  them  in  together  with  the  white  meat  of 
a  cocoa-nut,  grated;  add  these  last  ingredients  when  the 
oven  is  ready.  Line  square  tin  pans  with  buttered  paper, 
and  put  in  the  mixture  an  inch  and  a  half  deep.  Bake  in 
a  quick  oven.     Cut  in  squares  when  cold 


22  EVERY   lady's   BOOK. 

Diet  Biscuit.  —  Beat  the  yolks  of  four  eggs  for  ten 
minutes,  with  half  a  pound  of  powdered  sugar,  and  rather 
less  flour;  beat  the  whites  to  a  high  froth;  flavor  with  es- 
sence of  lemon  or  rose-water ;  add  the  whites  of  the  eggs  to 
the  yolks;  flour  and  sugar  when  the  oven  is  ready;  bake  in 
small  tins. 


French  Tea  Cakes.  —  Beat  ten  eggs  to  a  high  froth ; 
dissolve  half  a  teaspoonful  of  volatile  salts  in  hot  water,  and 
let  it  stand  to  cool ;  then  put  it  with  the  eggs,  and  beat  them 
for  ten  minutes ;  add  four  ounces  of  powdered  loaf-sugar, 
and  the  same  of  fine  flour.  Put  the  mixture  in  square 
tins,  and  bake  in  a  quick  oven. 


Wafers.  —  Two  tablespoonfuls  of  white  sugar ;  two  ditto 
of  butter;  one  cup  of  flour;  and  a  teaspoonful  of  essence 
of  lemon ;  use  milk  to  make  a  thick  batter. 

Heat  the  wafer-irons,  rub  the  inside  well  with  butter,  and 
bake  the  wafers  a  delicate  brown.  Strew  sugar  over  when 
taken  from  the  irons. 


Wafers  and  Jelly  — Take  three  ounces  of  butter; 
the  yolks  of  three  eggs ;  three-quarters  of  a  pound  of  flour ; 
and  three-quarters  of  a  pound  of  sugar;  melt  the  butter 
and  put  it  to  the  eggs,  then  beat  the  whole  together  with 
water  sufficient  to  make  a  thick  batter. 

Heat  the  wafer-irons,  and  bake  five  or  six  wafers. 

Spread  one  with  jelly,  lay  another  on  that,  and  spread  it 
also  with  jelly  or  jam ;  continue  to  do  so  until  all  are  used; 
then  trim  off  the  edges  neatly  and  serve,  cut  in  quarters. 


EVERY   lady's   BOOK.  '  23 

Yeast  Wafers.  —  Three  eggs ;  one  pint  of  warm  milk  3 
one  tablespoonful  of  yeast;  one  tablespoonfiil  of  butter; 
half  a  nutmegs  and  flour  to  make  it  as  stiff  as  you  can  stir 
with  a  spoon ;  set  it  in  a  warm  place  to  rise  for  two  or  three 
hours;  then  bake. 

It  may  be  baked  in  muffin  rings  on  a  griddle ;  when  one 
side  is  done  turn  the  other. 


Washington  Cake.  —  One  pound  and  three  quarters 
of  flour ;  one  pound  and  a  half  of  sugar ;  four  eggs ;  half 
a  pint  of  sour  milk ;  and  one  teaspoonful  of  saleratus ;  work 
the  sugar  and  butter  together ;  then  add  the  milk  and  beaten 
eggs  and  saleratus  dissolved  in  hot  water;  and,  lastly,  a 
glass  of  brandy  and  a  teaspoonful  of  essence  of  lemon. 
Beat  it  well,  and  bake  in  a  quick  oven. 


Honey-Cake.  —  Three  pounds  and  a  half  of  flour ;  one 
pound  and  a  half  of  honey ;  half  a  pound  of  sugar ;  half  a 
pound  of  butter;  half  a  nutmeg;  and* a  spoonful  of  ginger; 
one  spoonful  of  saleratus.  Roll  it  thin,  and  cut  it  in  small 
cakes.     Bake  in  a  hot  oven. 


PuFFETS.  —  Two  pounds  of  butter ;  three  quarters  of  a 
pound  of  sugar;  four  eggs;  one  pint  of  milk;  a  gill  of 
yeast ;  and  as  much  flour  as  will  make  a  good  dough ;  set  it 
in  a  warm  place  to  rise,  for  an  hour  or  more,  until  it  is  light ; 
then  roll  it  thin ;  cut  it  in  small  cakes.  Bake  in  a  quick 
oven. 

Cream  Cake.  —  Four  cups  of  flour ;  three  cups  of  sugar; 
twc  (Mips  of  butter;  one  cup  of  cream;  five  eggs;  one  tea- 


24  EVEKY   lady's   BOOK. 

spoonful  of  essence  of  lemon ;  and  one  teaspoonful  of  sale- 
ratus,  dissolved  in  a  little  milk ;  beat  it  well  and  bake  in  a 
quick  oven. 

Waffles.  —  Three  tea-cups  of  sugar;  one  cup  of  butter; 
three  eggs ;  one  teaspoonful  of  saleratus  dissolved  in  milk ; 
stir  flour  in  gradually  unj;il  it  is  as  thick  as  you  can  stir  with 
a  spoon;  jidd  to  this  one  teaspoonful  of  essence  of  lemon, 
half  a  nutmeg,  and  half  a  teaspoonful  of  salt;  heat  the  waf- 
fle irons,  rub  over  the  inside  with  a  sponge  dipped  in  melted 
butter ;  put  a  large  spoonful  of  the  mixture  for  each  cake ; 
hold  it  over  hot  coals  or  a  stove,  until  both  are  a  fine  color. 

Jumbles'  mixture  or  cup  cake  makes  good  waffles. 


Naples  Biscuit.  , —  Beat  eight  eggs ;  add  to  them  one 
pound  of  flour,  one  pound  of  powdered  sugar^  and  one  tea- 
spoonful of  essence. of  lemon. 

Bake  in  a  quick  oven. 


Biscuit  and  Jelly  Sandwich.  —  Mix  a  Naples  bis- 
cuit, and  bake  it  in  a  basin  with  straight  sides ;  when  cold, 
cut  it  in  slices  three-quarters  of  an  inch  thick ;  spread  each 
with  some  jelly,  and  replace  them,  according  to  their  origi- 
nal form  ;  have  ready  an  icing,  and  cover  it,  both  the  top 
and  sides,  and  dry  it  in  a  warm  room.  (See  Icing  for 
Cake.) 


Loaf  Cake. — One  pound  of  butter;  two  pounds  of 
sugar ;  three  pounds  of  flour ;  six  eggs,  well  beaten  ;  one 
pint  of  milk;  three  tablespoonfuls  of  dry  saleratus, —  dis- 
solve it  in  a  little  warm  water;  spice  to  taste;  add  one 


EVERY   lady's   BOOK.  25 

pound  of  currants,  well  washed  and  dried,  and  one  pound 
of  raisins;  work  it  well  together,  and  make  it  into  three 
loaves. 

Bake  for  one  hour  in  a  quick  oven. 


Drop  Cakes. — Beat  eight  eggs  very  light,  with  one  pound 
of  sugar  and  twelve  ounces  of  flour  j  drop  them  on  paper, 
sprinkle  fine  sugar  over  each,  and  bake  in  a  quick  oven. 

Take  them  from  the  paper  with  a  knife. 


Trifles.  —  One  egg  to  a  tablespoonful  of  sugar,  and  as 
much  flour  as  will  make  a  stifi"  dough;  roll  it  very  thin,  and 
cut  them  in  small  round  or  square  cakes ;  drop  two  or  three 
at  a  time  in  boiling  lard.  When  they  rise  to  the  surface 
and  turn  over,  they  are  done.  Take  them  out  with  a  skim- 
mer, and  lay  them  on  a  sieve  to  drain;  heap  jelly  or  jam 
on  the  center  of  each  when  served. 


Nothings. — Break  two  orthree  eggs  in  a  basin;  use 

^  flour  enough  to  make  a  very  stiff  paste ;  then  roll  them  very 

thin,  cut  them  in  small  cakes,  and  finish  the  same  as  trifles. 

These  make  a  very  pretty  dish,  or  they  are  good  with  a  slice 

of  jelly  between  each  two. 


Soft  Jumbles.  —  Two  cups  of  sugar  rolled  fine ;  one 
cup  of  butter,  one  cup  of  milk,  with  half  a  teaspoonful  of 
saleratus  dissolved  in  it,  and  four  eggs  beaten ;  use  flour 
enough  to  yaake  it  rather  thicker  than  pound-cake. 

Beat  it  well  after  all  the  ingredients  are  in ;  rub  some 
square  tin  pie-pans  over  with  a  bit  of  sponge  dipped  in^ 
3 


26*  EVERT    lady's   BOOK. 

HI  sited  butter,  and  put  in  the  mixture  rather  more  than  an 
inch  thick. 

Bake  in  a  quick  oven ;  when  cold  cut  it  in  squares. 


EiCE  Cake.  —  Mix  five  ounces  of  rice  flour  with  an 
ounce  and  a  half  of  wheat,  and  four  ounces  of  sugar ;  beat 
six  eggs,  the  whites  and  yolks  separately,  with  a  teaspoonful 
of  essence  of  lemon,  and  stir  them  with  the  flour  and  sugar 
gradually ;  then  put  it  in  a  stew-pan  over  a  slow  fire ;  stir  it 
quickly  for  a  few  minutes;  then  put  in  a  buttered  basin^ 
and  bake  in  a  quick  oven. 


Paste  Puffs.  —  Have  one  pound  of  fine  flour,  and  the 
same  weight  of  sweet  butter;  work  one-fourth  of  the  but- 
ter into  the  flour,  with  ]ust  enough  cold  water  to  bind  it ; 
pour  hot  water  on  a  piece  of  volatile  salts  the  size  of  a  hick- 
ory nut,  to  dissolve  it;  when  cold,  add  it  to  the  paste;  work 
it  well ;  roll  it  about  half  an  inch  thickness ;  spread  over 
the  whole  surface  one-third  of  the  remaining  butter,  then 
fold  it  up ;  flour  your  cake-board  and  rolling-pin  well,  then 
roll  it  out  again,  always  rolling  from  you;  spread  on  another 
third  of  the  butter;  and  fold,  and  roll,  and  spread  on  butter 
as  at  first,  until  all  is  used. 

Cut  it  in  cakes  with  the  top  of  a  tumbler,  or  a  tin-cutter 
of  that  size ;  then  take  a  wine-glass  or  tin-cutter  the  size  of 
a  dollar  piece,  and  mark  the  size  of  it  in  the  center  of  the 
larger  cake. 

Bake  them  on  tins  in  a  hot  oven ;  when  two-thirds  donC; 
wet  the  top  of  each  with  the  white  of  eggs  beaten ;  sprinkle 
sugar  over,  and  finish  baking. 


EVERY   lady's   BOOK.  27 

Paste  Cakes,  or  Jelly  Tarts. — Mix  one  pound  of 
flour  with  three-quarters  of  a  pound  of  butter,  and  a  bit  of 
sal  volatile  the  size  of  a  pea,  dissolved  in  hot  water ;  beat  it 
well  with  a  rolling-pin ;  roll  it  thin ;  cut  it  in  small  squdre 
or  round  cakes;  wet  the  tops  over  with  beaten  egg,  and 
sprinkle  sugar  over;  bake  in  a  quick  oven.  When  wanted 
for  use,  put  a  heaping  spoonful  of  jelly  in  the  centre  of  each. 


Sweet  Paste  Jelly  Tarts.  —  Mix  half  a  pound  of 
butter,  half  a  pound  of  sugar,  and  half  a  pound  of  flour, 
well  together;  dissolve  a  bit  of  volatile  salts,  the  size  of  two 
peas,  in  hot  water  (about  a  tablespoonful  of  water) ;  let  it 
be  all  dissolved,  and  add  it  to  the  paste ;  beat  it  well  with 
the  rolling-pin ;  then  roll  it  out  to  half  an  inch  thickness ; 
cut  it  in  cakes  the  size  of  a  tumbler ;  wet  the  top  of  each 
with  milk,  and  put  them  on  tins  in  a  quick  oven.  When 
done,  heap  a  spoonful  or  two  of  jellv  in  the  center  of  each. 

These  are  fine  for  dessert  or  evening  parties. 


Sugar  Paste  Cream  Tarts.  —  To  one  pound  of  flour 
put  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  sugar,  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of 
butter,  and  one  beaten  egg ;  work  it  well  together  with  a  lit- 
tle cold  water  in  which  is  dissolved  a  bit  of  volatile  salts, 
half  the  size  of  a  nutmeg ;  roll  it  rather  thin ;  butter  some 
small  tin  tartlet  pans,  and  line  them  with  the  paste.  Bake 
in  a  quick  oven.  When  done,  fill  with  mock  cream,  sprin- 
kle a  little  powdered  sugar  over,  and  return  them  to  the 
oven  for  a  few  minutes,  to  brown  the  tops.  Either  of  the 
two  last  receipts  for  paste  may  be  used  instead  of  this. 


Soft   Gingerbread,  without   Eggs.  —  Six  cups  of 
flour;  three  cups  of  molasses;  one  or  two  cups  of  butter; 


28  EVERY   lady's   BOOK. 

one  tablespoonful  of  ground  ginger ;  and  three  teaspoonfuls 
of  saleratus,  or  two  of  sal  volatile,  dissolved  m  a  cup  of 
milk.  Beat  it  well,  and  bake  in  a  quick  oven,  in  square  tin 
pans. 

One  cup  of  butter  is  sufficient,  but  tbe  additional  cup  of 
butter  is  a  great  improvement. 


Tea  Cup  Cake,  without  Eggs.  —  One  cup  of  butter; 
two  cups  of  sugar ;  one  cup  of  sour  milk  or  cream ;  a  bit 
of  volatile  salts,  tbe  size  of  a  small  nutmeg,  or  a  teaspoon- 
ful  of  saleratus ;  half  a  nutmeg,  grated ;  a  gill  of  brandy ; 
and  a  teaspoonful  of  essence,  or  the  rind  of  a  lemon,  grated ; 
use  flour  enough  to  make  a  stiff  batter ;  beat  it  well ;  put  it 
an  inch  and  a  half  deep  in  buttered  basins,  and  bake  in  a 
quick  oven. 

Cream  Cake.  —  Four  cups  of  flour;  three  cups  of  sugar; 
two  cups  of  butter;  one  cup  of  sour  cream;  one  teaspoonful 
of  saleratus,  dissolved  in  milk,  and  four  eggs;  add  a  tea- 
spoonful of  essence  of  lemon,  and  half  a  nutmeg,  grated. 
Beat  it  well,  and  bake  in  a  quick  oven. 


Soda  Cakes.  —  Dissolve  half  a  pound  of  sugar,  and  a 
teaspoonful  of  soda,  in  a  pint  of  milk,  and  put  it,  with  half 
a  pound  of  melted  butter,  on  two  pounds  of  flour.  Knead 
it  well  together,  until  light;  butter  shallow  pans;  nearly 
fill  them,  and  bake  in  a  quick  oven. 


Almond  Cake.  —  Weigh  three  eggs  in  their  shells ; 
t-ake  the  same  weight  of  flour,  fresh  butter  and  fine  white 
sugar;  take  the  skins  from  three  ounces  of  almonds,  and 


EVERY   lady's   BOOK.  2& 

pound  them  in  a  mortar,  with  a  tablespoonful  of  essence  of 
lemon,  until  they  are  a  smooth  paste;  add  to  them  the  three- 
eggs,  and  gradually  the  other  ingredients.  Beat  it  well 
Butter  a  basin ;  put  tjie  cake  mixture  in,  an  inch  and  a  half 
deep,  and  bake  in  a  quick  oven. 

Egg  Rusk.  —  Melt  four  ounces  of  butter  in  a  pint  of 
warm  milk ;  beat  seven  eggs  until  you  can  take  them  up  by 
spoonfuls;  and  with  these,  three  ounces  of  sugar,  a  gill  of 
yeast,  and  as  much  flour  as  may  be  necessary,  make  a  bat- 
ter; cover  it,  and  set  it  in  a  warm  place  to  rise.  When 
light  (which  it  will  be  in  two  or  three  hours),  add  to  it  as 
much  more  flour  as  may  be  necessary  to  make  a  dough  just 
stiff"  enough  to  mould  in  well-floured  hands.  Make  it  in 
small  cakes;  lay  them  close  together  in  a  buttered  basin; 
bake  in  a  quick  oven.  When  nearly  done,  wet  the  tops  over 
with  milk  made  sweet  with  sugar,  and  return  them  to  the 
oven  to  finish  baking 


Savoy  Biscuit.  —  Beat  the  whites  of  six  eggs  to  a 
froth,  and  the  yolks  with  rather  more  than  half  a  pound  of 
sugar;  then  add  half  a  pound  of  flour,  and  a  teaspoonful  of 
essence  of  lemon ;  butter  small  tin  pans ;  nearly  fill  them, 
and  bake  in  a  quick  oven. 


CocoA-NuT  Pound  Cake.  —  One  pound  of  sugar ;  half 
a  pound  of  butter;  one  teacup  of  milk;  one  teaspoonful  of 
saleratus,  or  a  bit  of  sal  volatile  the  size  of  a  small  nutmeg, 
dissolved  in  hot  water;  one  tablespoonful  of  essence  of 
lemon,  and  four  eggs. 

Beat  the  whole  well  together  until  it  is  light  and  creamy ; 
3* 


30  EVERT  lady's  BOOK. 

then  grate  the  white  meat  of  a  cocoa-nut,  and  stir  it  lightly 
in ;  line  a  tin  basin  or  square  tin  pan  with  wcll-buttered  pa- 
per, and  put  in  the  mixture  an  inch  and  a  half  deep. 

Bake  in  a  quick  oven,  and  cut  it  in  square  pieces  when 
done. 

Icing  is  a  great  improvement. 


Almond  Pound  Cake.  —  Make  a  cake  as  for  cocoa-nut 
pound  cake ;  take  the  skins  from  half  a  pound  of  almonds ; 
pound  them  small  but  not  to  a  paste,  and  use  them  in  the 
place  of  cocoa-nut. 


Hickory  Nut  Cake.  —  Pick  hickory  nut  meats  from 
the  shell,  until  you  have  half  a  pint.  Make  a  cake  as  for 
cocoa-nut  cake,  and  stir  in  the  hickory  nut  meats. 

Raisins  chopped  and  stoned,  or  currants  well  washed  and 
dried,  is  an  improvement. 


Domestic  Cakes.  —  One  pound  of  flour,  and  half  a 
pound  of  sugar;  beat  half  a  pound  of  butter  to  a  cream; 
add  half  a  grated  nutmeg,  and  work  it  to  a  smooth  paste; 
roll  it  about  half  an  inch  thick,  and  cut  it  in  square  or  round 
cakes.     Bake  in  a  quick  oven. 


Scotch  Cakes.  —  Take  two  pounds  of  flour;  mix  with 
it  one  pound  of  powdered  sugar,  and  half  a  pound  of  cara- 
way seeds;  melt  half  a  pound  of  butter,  and  with  it  mix  the 
sugar  to  a  paste ;  work  it  well ;  add  to  it  a  teaspoonful  of 
essence  of  lemon  ;  roll  it  out  to  about  half  an  inch  thickness; 
cut  it  in  square  cakes;  lay  them  on  buttered  paper;  crimp 
the  edges  of  each  cake  with  your  finger;  stick  them  with  a 


EVERY   LADY^S   BOOK.  81 

fork,  and  bake  in  a  quick  oven.     They  should  be  of  a  pale 
brown  when  done. 


Small  Pound  Cakes.  —  One  pound  and  a  half  of  flour; 
seven  eggs  well  beaten ;  one  teaspoonful  of  volatile  salts  dis- 
solved in  hot  water;  when  cold,  add  it  to  the  eggs  and  beat 
for  t€n  minutes;  one  pound  and  a  half  of  white  sugar,  and 
one  pound  of  butter ;  beat  the  eggs  and  sugar  well  together ; 
then  add  the  butter  beaten  to  a  creani  and  the  flour ;  beat 
all  well  together;  bake  in  a  quick  oven,  in  small  tins  well 
buttered. 


Rich  Small  Cakes.  —  Beat  one  pound  of  butter  to  a 
cream;  one  pound  and  a  quarter  of  flour;  one  pound  of 
sugar  and  four  eggs ;  work  it  well  together ;  roll  it  half  an 
inch  thick ;  cut  it  in  small  cakes,  and  bake  in  a  quick  oven. 


Whig  Cakes.  —  One  pound  and  a  half  of  fine  flour; 
half  a  pint  of  warm  milk;  one  gill  of  brewer's  yeast;  work 
this  to  a  dough ;  set  it  in  a  warm  place,  to  rise  for  an  hour 
or  two;  then  add  one  pound  of  sugar,  rolled  fine;  half  a 
pound  of  butter,  and  half  a  grated  nutmeg;  work  them 
well  into  the  risen  dough ;  roll  it  thin,  cut  in  small  cakes, 
and  bake  in  a  quick  oven. 


Democratic  Tea  Cakes.  —  Take  three  quarts  of  fine 
flour;  half  a  teacup  of  yeast,  and  half  a  pound  of  butter, 
dissolved  in  warm  milk;  the  yolks  of  three  eggs  well  beaten  ; 
a  teaspoonful  of  salt,  and  a  nutmeg  grated;  use  enough 
warm  milk  to  make  a  good  dough ;  lay  it  in  a  buttered  ba- 
sin, and  set  it  in  a  warm  place  for  an  hour  to  rise ;  then  bake 
in  a  quick  oven.     Serve  hot. 


82  EVERY   LADY^S    BOOK. 

Saleratus  Cakes.  —  Take  half  a  pint  of  molasses; 
half  a  pint  of  water;  half  a  cup  of  butter;  one  teaspoon- 
ful  of  ground  ginger;  one  spoonful  of  essence  of  lemon; 
one  tablespoonful  of  saleratus  dissolved  in  the  water,  and 
flour  to  make  it  as  stiff  as  you  can  stir  with  a  spoon  ;  bake 
in  square  tins  well  buttered,  in  a  quick  oven ;  to  ascertain 
when  it  is  done,  see  Introductory  Remarks  on  Cake-baking. 


Queen  Cake.  —  Beat  one  pound  of  butter  to  a  cream, 
with  a  tablespoonful  of  essence  of  lemon  or  rose-water ;  then 
add  one  pound  of  fine  flour;  one  pound  of  powdered  white 
sugar,  and  ten  eggs  beaten  light ;  beat  the  cake  well ;  then 
add  half  a  pound  of  almonds  blanched  and  beaten  fine ;  but- 
ter square  tin  pans ;  put  in  the  mixture  rather  more  than  an 
inch  deep,  and  bake  in  a  quick  oven. 


Thanksgiving  Tea  Cake.  —  One  teacup  of  butter,  one 
teacup  of  white  sugar,  two  eggs,  two  coffee-cups  of  flour, 
alum  and  volatile  salts,  each  the  size  of  half  a  small  nutmeg; 
rolled  or  pounded  fine,  and  dissolved  with  a  little  milk,  and 
one  teaspoonful  of  essence  of  lemon.  Beat  them  all  to- 
gether until  light  and  creamy,  then  put  it  into  a  small  basin 
lined  with  buttered  paper,  and  bake  in  a  quick  oven.  Cit- 
ron cut  in  slips  and  added  to  this  is  an  improvement. 


Almond  Drop  Cakes.  —  Take  the  skins  from  an  ounce 
of  almonds,  and  pound  them  fine  with  a  teaspoonful  of  es- 
sence of  lemon ;  beat  the  yolks  of  three  eggs,  and  put  them 
to  the  almond ;  then  add  sugar  and  flour  each  an  ounce  and 
a  half ;  mix  all  well  together ;  strew  sugar  and  flour  on  a 
tin  plate,  and  drop  the  mixture  from  a  spoon  in  small  cakes, 


EVERY   lady's   BOOK.  33 

either  round  or  the  length  and  size  of  a  finger ;  let  them  be 
an  inch  apart.     Bake  in  a  quick  oven. 


Curd  Cakes.  — Beat  four  eggs  light,  and  stir  them  into 
a  quart  of  boiling  milk ;  sweeten  it  very  sweet,  and  let  it 
cool;  then  stir  in  one  large  cofiee-cup  of  flour;  one  tea- 
spoonful  of  essence  of  lemon,  and  two  more  well-beaten 
eggs ;  beat  it  well ;  make  some  sweet  butter  hot  in  a  thick- 
bottomed  frying-pan ;  drop  the  mixture  in,  in  small  cakes, 
some  little  distance  apart;  fry  them  a  fine  brown,  then  take 
them  out  on  a  sieve  to  drain. 


Lemon  Drop  Cakes.  —  Grate  the  rinds' from  three  large 
lemons;  put  to  it  three  heaping  tablespoonfuls  of  white 
powdered  sugar,  and  a  tablespoonful  of  flour;  work  the 
whole  well  together  with  the  white  of  one  egg;  drop  it  in 
small  cakes  on  buttered  paper  about  an  inch  apart.  Bake 
in  a  moderate  oven. 


Sponge  Cake.  —  One  pound  of  sugar ;  half  a  pound  of 
flour;  eight  eggs;  one  teaspoonful  of  essence  of  lemon  or 
rose-water,  and  half  a  nutmeg,  grated. 

Beat  the  yolks  of  the  eggs,  flour  and  sugar  together; 
then  add  the  whites  beaten  to  a  high  froth,  when  just  ready 
for  the  oven. 

Butter  some  square  tin  pans,  and  put  in  the  cake  mixture 
rather  more  than  an  inch  deep. 

Bake  in  a  quick  oven  for  twenty  minutes  ;  when  cold,  cut 
it  in  squares. 


34  EVERY   LADY^S  BOOK. 

Small  Sponge  Cakes.  —  Five  eggs,  half  a  pound  of 
sugar,  and  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  flour ;  mix  as  above  di- 
rected.    Butter  small  tins  and  bake  in  a  quick  oven. 


Marlborough  Cakes. — Eight  eggs  and  a  pound  of 
powdered  sugar;  beat  them  well  together,  then  by  degrees 
mix  it  into  twelve  ounces  of  flour,  and  two  ounces  of  cara- 
way seeds,  and  bake  in  a  quick  oven. 

Diet  Bread.  —  One  pound  of  flour,  one  pound  of  sugar, 
and  nine  eggs ;  finish  as  directed  for  sponge  cake. 


New  Year's  Cake.  —  Seven  pounds  of  flour,  two 
pounds  and  a  half  of  sugar,  two  pounds  of  butter,  and  a 
pint  of  water,  with  a  teaspoouful  of  volatile  salts  dissolved 
in  it.  Work  the  paste  well ;  roll  it  thin  and  cut  it  in  small 
cakes,  with  a  tin  cutter;  lay  them  on  tin  plates,  and  bake 
in  a  quick  oven  for  fifteen  minutes. 


White  Cakes.  —  Take  half  a  pound  of  flour,  rub  into 
it  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  white  sugar,  rolled  fine ;  one 
ounce  of  butter,  one  egg,  some  essence  of  lemon,  and  milk 
to  make  it  a  stiff  dough ;  add  caraway  seeds  if  liked ;  roll 
it  thin ;  cut  it  in  small  cakes,  and  bake  in  a  quick  oven. 
Fifteen  minutes  will  do  them. 


Lafayette  Cake.  — Make  a  S^kvoy  biscuit,  and  bake  it 
in  a  tin  pan  with  straight  sides;  when  cold  cut  it  in  thin 
slices  (a  quarter  of  an  inch  thickness) ;  spread  each  with 
jelly  or  jam,  and  put  it  together  again,  three  or  four  slicea 


EVERY   lady's    BOOK.  85 

for  each  cake,  or  put  them  all  together ;  ice  the  cake  on  the 
top  and  sides,  and  serve  cut  in  quarters. 


'Cringles.  —  Beat  the  yolks  of  eight  eggs  with  the 
whites  of  two;  add  to  them  four  ounces  of  butter  just 
warmed,  and  with  it  work  one  pound  of  flour  and  four  oun- 
ces of  sugar,  rolled  fine  to  a  stiff  paste,  sprinkle  flour  over  a 
cake-board  and  roll  them  half  an  inch  thick,  then  cut  them 
in  small  cakes;  bake  in  a  quick  oven. 

Flavor  with  essence  of  lemon  or  nutmeg. 


Almond  Macaroons.  —  Throw  scalding  water  on  half 
a  pound  of  almonds ;  take  the  skins  off  and  throw  them  into 
cold  water  until  all  are  done;  then  take  them  out  and  pound 
them  (adding  a  tasblespoonful  of  essence  of  lemon)  to 
a  smooth  paste.  Add  to  them  an  equal  weight  of  fine  pow- 
dered white  sugar  and  the  white  of  two  eggs;  work  the 
paste  well  together  with  the  back  of  a  spoon.  Then  dip 
your  hands  in  water,  and  roll  the  preparation  in  balls  the 
size  and  shape  of  a  nutmeg,  and  lay  them  on  a  sheet  of  pa- 
per, the  distance  of  at  least  an  inch  apart;  when  all  are 
done,  dip  your  hands  in  water,  and  pass  them  gently  over 
the  macaroons.  This  will  make  their  surface  smooth  and 
shining.  Put  them  in  a  cool  oven  and  close  it ;  in  three- 
quarters  of  an  hour  they  are  done. 

If  this  receipt  is  strictly  followed,  there  can  be  no  failure, 
and  the  macaroons  will  be  found  equal  to  any  made  by  pro- 
fessed confectioners. 


CocoA-NuT  Drops.  —  Break  a  cocoa-nut  in  pieces,  and 
lay  it  in  cold  water,  then  cut  off  the  dark  rind,  and  grate 


36  EVKRY   lady's   BOOK. 

the  white  meat  on  a  cArse  grater;  put  the  whites  of  four 
sggs  with  half  a  pound  of  white  powdered  sugar ;  beat  it 
until  very  light  and  white;  then  add  to  it  some  essence  of 
lemon  and  grated  cocoa-nut,  until  as  thick  as  you  can  stir  it 
easily  with  a  spoon ;  then  lay  it  in  heaps  the  size  and  shape 
of  a  large  nutmeg  on  a  sheet  of  paper;  let  them  be  placed 
at  least  the  distance  of  an  inch  apart ;  when  all  are  done, 
lay  the  paper  on  a  baking-tin  and  set  them  in  a  quick  oven. 
When  they  begin  to  look  yellowish  they  are  done ;  let  them 
remain  on  the  paper  until  cold. 


CocoA-NuT  Macaroons.  —  Make  these  in  the  same 
manner  as  almond  macaroons,  substituting  grated  cocoa-nut 
for  pounded  almonds;  and  finish  in  the  same  manner  as  al- 
mond macaroons. 


Kisses.  —  Beat  the  whites  of  four  small  eggs  to  a  high 
firm  froth;  then  stir  into  it  half  a  pound  of  ground  or  finely- 
powdered  white  sugar;  flavor  it  with  essence  of  lemon  or 
rose. 

Continue  to  beat  until  very  light;  this  being  done,  lay 
the  mixture  in  heaps  on  letter  paper,  in  the  size  and  shape 
of  half  an  egg,  and  at  least  the  distance  of  an  inch 
apart. 

Then  place  the  paper  containing  them  on  a  piece  of  wood, 
half  an  inch  thick,  and  put  them  into  a  hot  oven ;  watch 
them,  and  as  soon  as  they  begin  to  look  yellowish,  take  them 
out,  take  the  paper  from  the  wood  to  a  table,  and  let  them 
cool  for  three  or  four  minutes.  Then  slip  a  thin-bladed 
knife  under  one  very  carefully,  turn  it  into  your  left  hand, 
then  take  another  from  the  paper  in  the  same  manner,  and 


EVERY   lady's   BOOK.  37 

join  the  two  together  by  the  sides  that  were  next  the  paper; 
then  lay  the  kiss  thus  made  on  a  dish ;  so  continue  until  all 
is  used ;  handle  them  gently  whilst  making. 

These  are  delicious  eating,  the  outside  being  hard,  and 
the  inside  a  rich,  creamy  moisture ;  and  they  present  a  beau- 
tiful appearance. 

Following  this  receipt  for  making  kisses,  will  insure  suc- 
cess, unsurpassed  by  any  professed  confectioner,  and  that, 
too,  without  the  least  difficulty;  after  the  mixture  is  pre- 
pared, the  time  required  for  finishing  is  short. 

By  placing  the  paper  containing  the  kisses  on  a  baking- 
tin  instead  of  the  board,  the  bottom  will  be  dried  as  well  as 
the  upper  surface,  and  thereby  finish  the  kiss  without  join- 
ing two  together;  those  made  in  this  manner  are  not  as  de- 
licious as  the  others,  as  they  contain  less  of  the  moisture  or 
cream;  they  however  look  very  well  —  the  upper  surface 
may  be  made  smoother  by  dipping  a  spoon-handle  or  knife- 
blade  in  water  and  passing  it  carefully  over  it;  in  this  way 
they  may  be  moulded  to  any  shape  you  may  prefer. 


Love  Cakes.  —  To  one  pound  of  powdered  sugar,  and 
six  well-beaten  eggs^  put  as  much  flour  as  will  make  a  stiff 
paste;  flavor  with  essence  of  lemon.  EoU  it  about  half  an 
inch  thick,  and  with  a  tin  cutter  the  size  of  the  top  of  a 
wine-glass,  cut  it  in  small  cakes ;  strew  some  sugar  and  flour 
over  a  baking-tin,  and  lay  the  cakes  on  it ;  bake  them  in  a 
quick  oven  for  ten  or  twelve  minutes ;  when  cold,  ice  the 
tops  with  plain  white  frosting,  and  set  them  in  a  warm  place 
to  dry;  finish  by  putting  a  bit  of  jelly,  the  size  of  a  large 
nutmeg,  in  the  center  of  each.  The  edge  may  be  finished 
with  ornamental  frosting. 
4 


38  EVERY   lady's   BOOK. 

Icing  for  Cakes.  —  Beat  the  whites  of  two  small  eggs 
to  a  high  froth ;  then  add  to  them  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of 
white  ground  or  powdered  sugar;  beat  it  well  until  it  will 
lie  in  a  heap;  flavor  with  lemon  or  rose;  this  will  frost  the 
top  of  a  common-sized  cake. 


Ornamental  Frosting.  —  For  this  purpose  have  a 
small  syringe,  draw  it  full  of  the  icing,  and  work  it  in  any 
design  you  fancy. 

Wheels^  Grecian  border,  or  flowers,  look  well ;  or  borders 
of  beading. 

For  Icing  or  Frosting  a  Cake.  —  Make  an  icing  as 
above,  and  more  or  less  as  may  be  required ;  heap  what  you 
suppose  to  be  suflacient  in  the  center  of  the  cake,  then  dip  a 
broad-bladed  knife  in  cold  water,  and  spread  the  ice  evenly 
over  the  whole  surface. 

If  the  sides  are  to  be  iced,  turn  over  the  basin  in  which 
it  was  baked,  and  set  the  cake  on  the  bottom  of  it,  then  lay 
the  icing  over  the  sides  with  a  broad-bladed  knife ;  then  take 
another  knife,  dip  it  in  water  and  smooth  it  over  evenly ; 
ice  the  top  as  above  directed,  and  set  it  in  a  warm  place  to 
dry ;  after  which,  ornament  it  as  you  may  fancy. 


To  Clarify  Isinglass.  —  Break  up  an  ounce  of  isin- 
glass, pour  on  it  a  cup  of  boiling  water,  and  set  it  on  a 
etove  to  dissolve ;  when  it  is  entirely  dissolved  take  off  any 
scum  that  may  rise,  or  strain  it  through  a  coarse  cloth ;  use 
for  Jellies,  Blanc  mange,  &c. 

Blanc  mange,  Jellies,  Preparing  Ice-Creams,  Candy-mak- 
ing, &c.,  should  be  done  in  a  bright,  clean  brass  kettle,  and 


EVERY    lady's    BOOK.  39 

be  stirred  with  a  silver  spoon :  tin  or  any  other  metal  thin- 
ner than  brass  or  copper,  will  heat  through  too  quickly. 


Blanc  Mange.  —  Boil  a  quart  of  milk  with  a  pint  of 
'  cream ;  clarify  an  ounce  and  a  half  of  isinglass,  stir  it  into 
the  milk,  add  fine  white  sugar  to  taste,  one  teaspoonful  of 
fine  salt,  and  flavor  with  essence  of  lemon  or  orange-flower 
water.  Let  it  boil  up,  stirring  it  well,  then  have  ready  your 
moulds  dipped  in  cold  water,  and  strain  the  blanc  mange 
through  a  coarse  white  muslin  into  them ;  turn  it  out  when 
perfectly  cold. 

Three  ounces  of  almonds  pounded  to  a  paste  and  stirred 
into  the  milk  with  the  isinglass  is  considered  an  improve- 
ment by  some. 

Blanc  Mange  may  be  flavored  with  vanilla  by  boiling  a 
vanilla  bean  in  the  milk;  when  sufficiently  flavored,  take 
out  the  bean,  rinse  it  in  cold  water,  wipe  it  dry,  and  keep  it 
to  use  again. 

Or,  by  boiling  cinnamon-sticks  in  the  milk,  it  may  have 
that  flavor. 


Dutch  Bianc  Mange.  —  Put  a  pint  of  clear  calf's-foot 
jelly  into  a  stewpan ;  mix  it  with  the  yolks  of  six  eggs,  and 
Bet  it  over  the  fire,  and  stir  it  till  it  begins  to  boil ;  sweeten 
and  flavor  it  according  to  fancy;  then  set  it  into  a  pan  of 
cold  water  and  stir  the  mixture  until  nearly  cold  to  prevent 
't  curdling;  when  it  begins  to  thicken  fill  the  moulds. 


EiBBON  Blanc  Mange.  —  Put  into  a  mould  some 
white  blanc  mange  two  inches  deep ;  let  it  become  perfectly 
cold;  then,  having  colored  some  other  blanc  mange  with 


40  EVERY   lady's   BOOK. 

cochineal,  or  carmine  of  a  deep  rose  color,  put  the  same 
depth  of  this.,  and  when  that  is  cold,  more  of  the  white; 
and  white  and  red  alternately  until  the  mould  is  full. 

Color  red  with  carmine  or  the  expressed  juice  of  boiled 
beets ;  yellow  with  saffron ;  and  blue  with  indigo. 


Apple  Jelly.  —  Pare  tart  apples  and  cut  them  up ;  put 
to  them  a  little  water,  and  let  them  boil  until  it  becomes 
glutinous  and  reduced;  then  strain  it;  put  one  pound  of 
white  sugar  to  each  pint  of  juice;  flavor  with  lemon  essence 
and  boil  until  it  is  a  fine  clear  jelly;  then  strain  it  into 
moulds. 


Calves'  Feet  Jelly.  —  Wash  and  clean  a  set  of  calves' 
feet,  boil  them  in  eight  quarts  of  water  until  reduced  to 
four,  then  strain  it  and  set  it  away  to  cool ;  when  cold,  take 
off  every  particle  of  fat,  take  up  the  jelly,  leaving  any  sedi- 
ment that  there  may  be  at  the  bottom,  then  set  it  over  the 
fire  again,  and  when  it  is  dissolved,  add  the  whites  of  six 
eggs  beaten  to  a  high  froth,  the  juice  of  six  lemons  and  a 
pint  of  white  wine;  sweeten  it  to  taste  with  loaf-sugar;  let 
it  boil  (skimming  it  well)  until  it  is  perfectly  clear,  then 
strain  it  over  some  of  the  skins  in  a  jelly  bag  (this  gives  it 
a  fine  amber  color);  if  it  should  not  be  a  good  clear  jelly, 
strain  it  again;  if  not  sufficiently  solid  a  jelly,  boil  it  until 
it  is  so. 

Calves  head  makes  equally  good  jelly. 

From  the  meat,  after  boiling  for  jelly,  take  every  parti- 
cle of  bone,  chop  it,  season  to  taste  with  pepper  and  salt, 
tie  it  in  a  cloth,  lay  it  on  a  plate  and  a  weight  on  it ;  when 
cold,  take  it  from  the  cloth,  and  cut  in  slices.  This  is  fine 
for  lunch  or  supper. 


EVERY   lady's    book.  41 

Wine  Jelly.  —  One  pint  of  Madeira  wine,  one  pint  of 
water,  one  ounce  of  the  best  of  isinglass,  dissolved  in  a  tea- 
cup of  hot  water;  sweeten  to  taste.  Let  the  wine  and  wa- 
ter be  boiling  hot,  then  stir  into  it  the  dissolved  isinglass 
and  sugar,  and  let  it  boil;  try  it  by  putting  a  little  of  it  in 
a  saucer,  and  when  cold,  if  it  is  not  a  good  jelly,  boil  it 
until  by  trying  it  you  find  it  to  be  so. 


To  KEEP  Orange  or  Lemon  Juice. — To  every  pint 
of  juice,  put  three-quarters  of  a  pound  of  double-refined 
sugar ;  let  it  boil  for  a  short  time ;  then  bottle  it. 


To  Preserve  Oranges.  —  Boil  oranges  in  clear  water, 
until  you  can  pass  a  straw  through  the  skins;  then  clarify 
three-quarters  of  a  pound  of  sugar  to  a  pound  of  oranges, 
and  pour  over  the  fruit  while  hot;  let  them  stand  one  night, 
then  boil  them  in  the  syrup  until  they  are  clear,  and  the 
syrup  thick.  Take  them  from  the  syrup  and  strain  it  clear 
over  them. 


Orange  Water  Ice.  —  Take  ten  or  twelve  fine  orang.es, 
take  ofi"  the  peels  and  divide  them  in  quarters,  and  after 
taking  out  the  pips  pound  them  with  the  grated  rinds  of  two 
of  the  oranges ;  then  put  them  into  a  coarse  cloth  and  press 
out  all  the  juice,  and  put  it  to  a  pint  of  water  in  which  is 
dissolved  half  a  pound  of  sugar.  Freeze  as  directed  for  ice- 
cream. 


To  MAKE  Ice  Cream.  —  Buckets  for  making  ice-cream, 

or  water-ice,  are  made  of  two  sorts  of  materials  —  block-tin, 

and  pewter.     Of  these,  pewter  is  best,  the  substance  to  be 
4* 


4#  tVERY    lady's   book. 

iced  congealing  more  gradually  than  in  the  former,  an  object 
much  to  be  desired,  as  when  the  ice  is  formed  too  quickly  it 
is  apt  to  be  rough  and  coarse  like  hail,  especially  if  it  is  not 
well  worked  with  a  spatula  or  wooden  spoon. 

The  other  utensils  necessary  for  this  operation  are,  a 
deep  pail  with  a  cork  at  the  bottom,  and  a  wooden  spatula 
about  nine  inches  long.  Being  so  far  provided,  fill  the  pail 
with  ice  pounded  fine,  and  coarse  salt  spread  over  it ;  then, 
having  put  the  cream  (or  whatever  it  is)  into  the  ice- 
pot  or  mould,  put  on  the  cover  close,  and  immerse  it  in  the 
center  of  the  ice-pail ;  see  that  the  ice  touches  the  mould  in 
all  parts.  Then  throw  into  the  ice  two  or  three  more  hand- 
fuls  of  coarse  salt,  and  let  it  stand  for  a  quarter  of  an  hour; 
then  take  the  cover  from  the  mould,  and  with  the  spatula 
stir  the  contents  up  together,  so  that  those  parts  that  touch 
the  sides  of  the  mould,  and  consequently  congeal  first,  may 
be  mixed  with  the  liquid  in  the  middle.  Work  it  well  for 
seven  or  eight  minutes,  then  replace  the  cover,  take  the  ice- 
pot  by  the  ears,  and  shake  it  round  and  round  for  a  quarter 
of  an  hour;  then  open  the  mould  a  second  time,  and  stir  as 
before.  Continue  these  operations  alternately  until  the 
cream,  or  whatever  is  to  be  frozen,  is  perfectly  smooth  and 
free  from  lumps.  During  the  process,  take  care  to  let  out 
the  water  which  will  collect  at  the  bottom  of  the  pail,  by 
means  of  the  cock,  and  keep  the  ice  pressed  close  to  the 
mould  by  means  of  the  spatula.  If  it  is  frozen  in  a  mould, 
take  it  from  the  ice-pot,  dip  the  mould  for  an  instant  in 
water,  then  dry  it  quickl}^,  turn  it  out,  and  serve  as  soon  as 
possible.  Any  ice-cream  may  be  made  in  this  way,  using, 
to  flavcr  it,  ripe  strawberries,  or  pine-apple  passed  through  a 
sieve,  or  raspberry  jam.  (See  Lemon  and  Vanilla  Ice- 
Cream  ) 


EVERY   lady's   BOOK.  4S 

Orange  Sherbet.  —  Squeeze  the  juice  from  oranges, 
pour  boiling  water  on  the  peel,  and  cover  it  closely;  boil  wa- 
ter and  sugar  to  a  syrup;  skim  it  clear;  when  all  are  cold, 
mix  the  syrup,  juice,  and  peel  infusion  with  as  much  water 
as  may  be  necessary  for  a  rich  taste  ;  strain  it  through  a  jelly- 
bag,  and  set  the  vessel  containing  it  on  ice. 

Or  make  it  in  the  same  manner  as  lemonade,  using  one 
lemon  to  half  a  dozen  oranges. 


Lemon  and  Orange  Sugar.  —  Grate  the  yellow  rind 
of  oranges  or  lemons  to  an  equal  quantity  of  loaf-sugar, 
powdered ;  dry  it,  and  keep  it  for  flavoring  cakes,  pies,  &c. 


Lemon  or  Orange  Water.  —  Peel  the  outside  rinds 
from  oranges  or  lemons,  pound  it  fine  in  a  mortar,  and  pour 
boiling  water  on  it,  and  cover  close  when  cold ;  bottle  for 
use  as  a  substitute  for  essence. 

Or,  pare  off  the  yellow  rinds,  pound  them  in  a  mortar, 
and  put  it  in  brandy  or  wine. 


Vanilla  Whipped  Cream.  —  Put  a  pinch  of  gum 
dragon  into  a  pint  of  cream,  add  a  little  orange-flower  water, 
and  a  little  milk  in  which  a  vanilla  bean  has  been  boiled ; 
add  loaf-sugar  to  taste ;  whisk  it  to  a  strong  froth,  and  lay 
it  carefully  on  a  dish  in  a  pyramidal  form. 


Lemon,  or  Vanilla  Ice  Cream.  —  Take  two  drachms 
of  vanilla  or  lemon  peel,  one  quart  of  milk,  the  yolks  of 
three  eggs,  half  a  pound  of  sugar,  and  a  pint  of  cream  ; 
beat  the  eggs  well  with  the  milk,  then  add  the  other  ingre- 
dients, set  it  over  a  moderate  fire,  and  stir  it  constantly  with 


44  EVERY  lady's  book. 

a  silver  spoon  until  the  cream  will  adhere  to  it;  then  strain 
it;  when  cold  freeze  it. 

The  cream  will  be  richer  if  it  is  made  of  a  greater  pro- 
portion of  cream,  or  it  maj  be  made  of  cream  alone,  sweet- 
ened and  flavored. 


Fruit  Candied.  —  When  the  fruit  is  preserved,  take  it 
from  the  syrup,  dry  it  in  an  oven,  then  dip  it  in  sugar  boiled 
to  candy  weight,  and  dry  it  again. 


To  Candy  Fruit.  —  Take  it  from  the  syrup,  drain  it 
dry,  and  roll  it  in  fiaely-powdered  sugar,  and  set  it  on  a 
sieve  in  an  oven  to  dry. 


To  Clarify  Sugar. — Take  four  pounds  of  sugar  and 
break  it  in  pieces ;  put  into  a  preserving  pan  the  white  of 
an  egg  and  a  glass  of  spring  water;  mix  them  well  with  a 
whisk,  and  add  water,  a  glass  at  a  time,  until  two  quarts  are 
in.  When  the  pan  is  full  of  froth,  throw  in  the  sugar,  and 
set  it  on  a  moderate  fire,  being  careful  to  skim  it  as  the 
scum  rises.  After  a  few  boilings  up,  the  sugar  will  rise  so 
high  as  to  run  over  the  sides  of  the  pan  —  to  prevent  which, 
throw  on  a  little  cold  water ;  this  will  lower  it  instantly,  and 
leave  time  for  skimming.  The  scum  should  never  be  taken 
off  whilst  the  sugar  is  bubbling  —  when  the  cold  water  stills 
it,  is  the  moment  for  skimming. 

Repeat  the  above  operation  three  or  four  times,  when  a 
light  scum  only  will  rise ;  then  take  the  pan  off,  lay  a  napkin, 
slightly  wetted  in  cold  water,  over  a  basin,  and  strain  the 
sugar  through  it.  Put  the  scum  thus  taken  off,  into  a  ba- 
sin.    When  the  sugar  is  clarified,  wash  the  skimmer  and 


EVERY   lady's   BOOK.  45 

basin  with  a  glass  of  water,  put  it  to  the  scum,  and  set  it 
aside  for  common  purposes. 


Strawberry  Ice  Cream.  —  Take  a  pint  of  picked 
strawberries,  rub  them  through  a  sieve  with  a  wooden  spoon ; 
add  four  ounces  of  powdered  sugar  and  a  pint  of  cream. 


Currant  Ice  Water.  — Press  the  juice  from  ripe  cur- 
rants; strain  it  clear;  to  one  pint  of  juice  put  nearly  a 
pound  of  loaf-sugar.  When  wanted  for  use,  put  to  it  ice- 
water  enough  to  make  a  pleasant  drink.  Grate  nutmeg 
over,  and  serve.  Or,  it  may  be  frozen  like  ice-cream ;  for 
this,  it  should  be  sweet  and  rich. 


Jaune  Mange.  —  Break  up  and  boil  an  ounce  of  isin- 
glass in  rather  more  than  half  a  pint  of  water,  till  it  is 
melted;  strain  it;  then  add  the  juice  of  two  large  oranges, 
a  gill  of  white  wine,  and  the  yolks  of  four  eggs,  beaten  and 
strained ;  sweeten  to  taste,  and  stir  it  over  a  gentle  fire  till 
it  just  boils  up;  dip  a  mould  in  cold  water  and  fill  it  with 
the  preparation;  if  there  should  be  any  sediment,  do  not 
put  it  in. 


Ivory-Dust  Jelly.  —  Boil  one  pound  of  ivory-dust  iu 
five  pints  of  water,  till  reduced  to  a  quart ;  then  strain  it, 
and  add  to  it  one  quart  more  water;  boil  it  till  reduced  to  a 
stiff  jelly ;  then  add  lemon  or  orange  juice,  and  the  yellow 
rind  of  a  lemon  or  orange.  Sweeten  to  taste ;  then  strain  it 
into  a  mt  uld. 


46  EVERT  lady's  BOOK. 

Lemon  Cream,  or  Floating  Island.  —  Beat  the 
yolks  of  twelve  eggs  to  the  juice  of  four  lemons;  make  it 
sweet,  and  set  it  over  a  furnace  or  chafing  dish  of  coals ; 
stir  it  till  it  becomes  thick;  then  pour  it  into  a  dish ;  whip 
the  whites  of  the  eggs  to  a  high  froth,  and  serve  it  on  the 
cream. 


Lemon  Sherbet. — Dissolve  a  pound  and  a  half  of 
white  sugar  in  a  quart  of  water ;  take  nine  large  lemons, 
cut  them  across,  and  squeeze  the  juice  into  the  dissolved  su- 
gar; plunge  the  lemons  into  the  sugared  water,  and  press 
them  so  as  to  extract  not  only  the  juice,  but  the  oil  contain- 
ed in  the  rind ;  mix  the  whole  well  together,  and  strain  it 
through  a  fine  hair  sieve ;  then  put  the  liquid  into  an  ice- 
pot,  and  finish  as  ice-cream. 


Cranberry  Jelly.  —  To  one  quart  of  cranberries  put 
a  quart  of  water,  and  boil  them  to  a  pulp ;  mash  them  with 
a  wooden  ladle  whilst  boiling ;  then  strain  them,  and,  to 
each  pint  of  the  juice,  add  half  a  pound  of  loaf-sugar;  set 
it  over  a  slow  fire,  and  stir  with  a  silver  spoon ;  try  it  often, 
by  taking  some  of  it  in  a  saucer.  When  cold,  if  it  is  not  a 
fine  jelly,  continue  to  boil  until  it  is  so. 


Syllabub.  —  Take  the  juice  of  a  large  lemon  and  the 
yellow  skin,  pared  very  thin;  a  glass  of  brandy;  two 
glasses  of  white  wine,  and  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  powdered 
sugar.  Put  these  ingredients  into  a  pan,  and  let  them  stand 
one  night;  the  next  day,  add  a  pint  of  thick  cream  and  the 
whites  of  twi  eggs.  Whip  the  whole  well.  Serve  in  jelly 
glasses. 


EVERY   lady's    BOOK.  47 

Lemonade  (Syrup).  —  Squeeze  the  juice  from  twelve 
lemons;  add  to  it  one  pound  of  loaf-sugar;  pour  a  little 
boiling  water  over  the  peels,  cover  them  close,  and,  when 
cold,  strain  it  to  the  lemon  juice  and  sugar.  Put  the  syrup 
in  decanters,  and  make  with  ice  water  in  summer  or  hot  wa- 
ter in  winter.  One  wine-glass  of  this  to  three-quarters  of 
a  tumbler  of  water. 


Acidulated  Rose  Jelly.  —  Make  a  clear  apple,  or 
isinglass  jelly;  color  it  with  cochineal  powder  infused  in 
double-distilled  rose-water.  Just  before  taking  it  up,  add 
the  juice  and  yellow  rind  of  a  large  lemon,  and  a  wine- 
glass of  double-distilled  rose-water.     Strain  it  in  moulds. 

Apples  in  Jelly.  —  Pare  some  small-sized  apples,  and 
core  them  without  cutting  them  open ;  then  put  them  with 
some  lemons,  in  water  to  cover  them.  Let  them  boil  slowly, 
until  so  tender  as  to  pass  a  straw  through  them ;  then  take 
them  out  carefully,  without  breaking.  3Iake  a  syrup  of  half 
a  pound  of  white  sugar  to  a  pound  of  the  apples.  Cut  the 
lemons  in  slices  and  put  them  and  the  apples  into  the  syrup; 
boil  them  very  slowly,  until  the  apples  are  clear ;  then  take 
them  out  in  a  deep  glass  dish ;  put  to  the  syrup  an  ounce  of 
isinglass  dissolved ;  let  it  boil  up ;  lay  a  slice  of  lemon  on 
*»each  apple;  then  strain  the  syrup  over  them.  This  is  a 
very  ornamental  dish. 


Oranges  in  Jelly. — Take  the  smallest  sized  oranges, 
boil  them  in  water  until  a  straw  will  easily  penetrate  them ; 
clarify  half  a  pound  of  sugar  for  each  pound  of  fruit ;  cut 
them  in  halves  or  quarters^  and  put  them  to  the  syrup ;  set 


48  EVEBV  lady's  book. 

them  over  a  slow  fire,  until  the  fruit  is  clear;  then  stir  into 
it  an  ounce  or  more  of  dissolved  isinglass,  and  let  it  boil  for 
a  short  time  longer.  Before  taking  it  up,  try  the  jelly.  If 
it  is  not  thick  enough  to  suit  your  fancy,  add  more  isinglass, 
first  taking  out  the  oranges  into  a  deep  glass  dish.  Strain 
the  jelly  over  them. 

Lemons  may  be  done  in  the  same  manner. 


Grated  Cocoa-Nut  —  A  Dish  of  Snow.  —  Take  a 
large  cocoa-nut ;  break  it  in  pieces ;  pare  ofi"  the  outside 
dark  skin  ;  throw  them,'  as  they  are  done,  into  a  pan  of  cold 
water;  then  grate  it  on  a  coarse  grater,  and  lay  it  in  a  glass 
dish.     Serve  to  eat  with  preserves,  jellies,  or  jams. 

Cranberry,  or  currant  jelly,  served  with  this,  has  a  pretty 
appearance  and  fine  relish. 


Wine  Sangaree.  —  Put  a  gill  of  wine  (Port  or  Madei- 
ra) into  a  tumbler;  add  to  it  water  (hot  or  cold),  to  nearly 
fill  the  tumbler ;  sweeten  with  loaf-sugar,  grate  nutmeg  over, 
and  serve  with  sponge  cake,  savoy  biscuit,  or  diet  bread. 


Molasses  Candy. — Put  a  pint  of  common  molasses 
over  a  slow  fire ;  let  it  boil;  stir  it  to  prevent  its  running 
over  the  top  of  the  kettle.  When  it  has  boiled  for  some 
time,  try  it,  by  taking  some  in  a  saucer :  when  cold,  if  it  is 
brittle  and  hard,  it  is  done.  Flavor  with  essence  of  lemon, 
and  Stir  shelled  pea-nuts  (ground-nuts),  or  almonds,  into  it, 
and  pour  it  into  a  buttered  basin,  or  square  tin-pans,  to  cool. 

Or,  it  may  be  made  a  light  color  by  pulling  it  in  your 
hands,  after  first  having  rubbed  them  over  with  sweet  but- 


EVERY    lady's   BOUK.  49 

ter,  to  prevent  the  candy  from  sticking  to  them  during  the 
process. 


To  MAKE  A  Pyramid  of  Cocoa-Nut  Drops,  Maca- 
roons, OR  Kisses.  —  Boil  some  loaf-sugar  to  candy  height 
(see  lemon  candy);  have  a  tin  form,  or  make  one  of  stiff 
paper ;  rub  butter  over  the  outside,  to  keep  the  candy  from 
sticking;  set  it  firmly  on  a  plate  or  table ;  begin  at  the  bot- 
tom by  putting  a  row  around  it,  and  sticking  them  together 
with  the  prepared  sugar;  then  add  another  row,  and  so  con- 
tinue until  the  pyramid  is  finished.  When  the  cement  is 
cold  it  may  be  taken  from  the  form. 

Kisses  or  cocoa-nut  drops  are  more  difficult  to  make  in 
this  form  than  macaroons,  the  former  being  so  much  more 
heavy. 

To  MAKE  Mottoes.  —  Cut  colored  tissue  paper  in  pieces 
of  about  four  inches  width  and  five  long ;  cut  the  ends  in 
fine  fringe  of  one  inch  depth ;  put  in  the  center  of  each  a 
sugared  almond  or  any  other  candy,  and  a  motto  verse  or 
two ;  fold  the  paper  around  it,  and  twist  each  end  close  to 
the  candy ;  so  continue  until  you  have  enough. 


DIRECTIONS  FOR  SETTING  REFRESHMENT  TABLES. 

Tables  of  refreshment  for  an  evening  party,  or  New  Year's 
day,  are  generally  arranged  in  the  following  manner : 

A  long  table  running  through  the  center  of  the  room,  or 
placed  against  the  broad-side  of  it,  and  covered  with  a  whit« 
5 


^0  ETEKY  lady's   BOOK. 

aamask  cloth,  for  confectionery,  jellies,  pistrj,  cakes,  &c. ; 
and  a  table  at  each  side  of  the  mantel,  recess,  or  pier;  the 
one  for  sandwiches,  oysters,  salads,  celery,  and  wines,  if 
used;  the  other  for  coffee,  chocolate,  lemonade,  and  punch, 
if  used. 

Or,  all  are  sometimes  placed  on  one  long  table  in  this 
manner ; 

Cakes,  confectionery,  jellies,  &c.,  in  the  center. 

At  one  end,  coffee,  lemonade,  &c. 

At  the  other,  oysters,  sandwiches,  celery,  wines,  &c. 

The  long  table  may  be  placed  at  one  side  of  the  room, 
through  the  center,  or  across  the  end. 

In  either  case,  the  most  ornamental  dishes,  such  as  pyra- 
mids, or  stands  of  jelly,  are  to  be  placed  in  the  center,  the 
smaller  ones  surrounding  it;  those  directly  opposite  each 
other  should  correspond  both  in  shape  and  size. 


Sandwiches.  —  These  are  made  of  different  articles,  but 
always  in  the  same  manner. 

Cold  biscuit  sliced  thin,  and  buttered,  and  a  very  thin 
slice  of  boiled  ham,  tongue  or  beef,  between  each  two  slices 
of  biscuit,  is  best. 

Home-made  bread  cuts  better  for  sandwiches  than  baker's 
bread. 

The  meat  in  sandwiches  is  generally  spread  with  mustard } 
the  most  delectable  are  those  made  with  boiled  smoked  tongue. 


Chicken  Salad.  —  Mince  the  white  meat  of  a  chicken 
fine,  or  pull  it  in  bits. 


EVERY   lady's   BOOK.  61 

Chop  the  white  parts  of  celery ;  prepare  a  salad  dressing 
thus  : 

Rub  the  yolks  of  hard-boiled  eggs  smooth  with  a  spoon ;  put 
to  each  yolk  one  teaspoouful  of  made  mustard,  half  as  much 
salt,  a  tablespoonful  of  oil,  and  a  wine-glass  of  strong  vine- 
gar; put  the  celery  in  a  glass  salad  bowl;  lay  the  chicken  on 
that;  then  pour  it  over  the  dressing.  Lettuce  cut  small  in 
the  place  of  celery  may  be  used ;  cut  the  whites  of  the  eggs 
in  rings  to  garnish  the  salad. 


To  MAKE  CoFFjCE.  —  Take  a  tablespoonful  of  fresh- 
browned  and  ground  coffee  for  each  person  (or  a  pint  of  wa- 
ter);  break  white  of  eggs  into  it  enough  to  moisten  it;  stir 
it  well  together ;  then  put  it  in  the  coffee-kettle  and  pour 
boiling  water  into  it ;  then  cover  it  close,  and  set  it  where  it 
will  simmer,  but  not  boil,  for  an  hour;  it  will  then  be  clear, 
and  have  the  color  of  brandy.  Coffee  may  be  made  in  this 
way  the  day  before  it  is  wanted.  Pour  it  off  clear,  and 
when  wanted,  heat  it  in  a  coffee-pot.  A  little  isinglass  clar- 
ified (see  receipt),  and  used  in  the  place  of  egg,  is  equally 
good,  if  not  an  improvement.  Loaf-sugar  and  boiled  milk 
to  be  served  with  it,  allowing  each  person  to  suit  their  own 
taste.  The  yolks  of  eggs  beaten  and  stirred  into  the  boil- 
ing milk,  enrich  it.  Some  persons  like  the  flavor  of  vanilla 
in  coffee ;  if  so,  boil  a  vanilla  bean  in  the  milk. 


To  MAKE  Chocolate.  —  Divide  a  pound  of  chocolate  in 
twelve  parts;  put  the  kettle  over  the  fire  with  as  many  cups 
of  water  as  you  wish  to  make  chocolate,  and  for  each  cup 
take  one  part  of  the  chocolate ;  make  these  a  smooth  paste 
with  some  milk,  and  when  the  water  boils  stir  in  the  paste; 


52  EVERY   lady's   BOOK. 

let  it  boil  slowly,  or  just  simmer  for  half  an  hour ;  add  cream 
or  milk  to  it,  and  sugar  to  taste;  or  the  sugar  may  be  omit- 
ted until  served ;  then  set  it  where  it  will  keep  hot,  but  not 
boil,  until  served. 


To  MAKE  French  Coffee  (without  boiling).  —  Get 
a  block-tin  coflfee-pot  or  biggin,  which  has  strainers  attached, 
take  out  the  loose  upper  one,  put  in  the  dry,  finely-ground 
coflfee  up  to  the  first  rim  on  the  inside ;  then  return  the 
strainer  to  its  place,  and  pour  through  it  boiling  water  until 
the  top  is  full;  when  that  has  run  through,  pour  in  more, 
according  as  you  wish  the  cofi*ee.  It  is  best  to  make  it  very 
strong,  and  reduce  it  when  served  with  hot  milk  and  water, 
or  boiling  milk  alone  in  the  cups.  A  teaspoonful  of  fresh- 
browned  and  ground  coffee  will  make  a  pint  of  rich  coffee 
in  this  way,  and  there  is  no  other  clearing  required. 


Ham  or  Tongue  for  Sandwiches,  will  be  found  much 
finer  eating  if  prepared  according  to  the  following  receipt : 

Lay  ham  or  tongue  in  soak  over  night,  in  cold  water ;  the 
next  morning  scrape  them  well  and  put  them  in  cold  water 
to  cover  them,  and  let  them  boil  gently  or  simmer  until  per- 
fectly tender,  then  take  them  up  and  skim  them.  Keep  the 
skin  of  the  ham  to  lay  over  it  until  wanted  for  use. 


Remarks  on  making  and  boiling  Puddings.  —  For 
boiling  puddings  there  should  be  a  tin  form,  or  a  muslin 
bag.  The  former  should  have  a  closely-fitting  cover;  the 
latter  should  first  be  dipped  in  boiling  water,  and  then  well 
floured  on  the  inside  to  prevent  the  pudding  sticking  to  the 


EVERY   lady's   BOOK.  63 

cloth ;  the  tin  form  should  first  be  rubbed  over  with  suet  or 
butter  before  putting  in  the  pudding. 

Tie  batter  puddings  very  close. 

Bread  puddings,  or  those  made  of  corn-meal,  should  be 
loose,  as  they  swell  very  much  in  boiling. 

The  water  must  be  boiling  when  the  pudding  is  put  in. 

The  pudding,  if  boiled  in  a  bag,  must  be  turned  fre- 
quently whilst  boiling,  otherwise  it  will  stick  to  the  pot. 

There  must  be  enough  water  to  cover  the  pudding,  and 
the  water  must  be  kept  boiling  all  the  time. 

If  boiled  in  a  tin,  do  not  let  the  water  reach  the  top  of  it. 
When  the  pudding  is  done,  give  whatever  it  is  boiled  in  one 
sudden  plunge  into  cold  water,  and  turn  it  out  immedi- 
ately. If  it  is  not  to  be  served  soon,  lay  the  cloth  in  which 
it  was  boiled  over  it.  It  is  best  to  serve  as  soon  as  turned 
out. 

Baked  puddings,  bread,  Indian  meal,  or  custard,  require 
a  moderate  heat.     Batter  or  rice,  a  quick  oven. 


Mock  Cream.  —  Beat  three  eggs  well ;  then  add  to  them 
three  heaping  teaspoonfuls  of  fine  flour ;  beat  them  well  to- 
gether; then  stir  them  into  a  pint  and  a  half  of  boiling 
milk ;  add  to  it  a  saltspoon  of  salt,  and  loaf-sugar  to  taste ; 
flavor  with  essence  of  lemon;  stir  it  while  boiling;  when  it 
is  perfectly  smooth  it  is  done. 

Line  pie  or  tartlet  pans  with  rich  pufi"  paste,  and  bake 
them  in  a  quick  oven;  when  done,  fill  them  with  mock 
cream ;  strew  powdered  sugar  over  the  top  of  each,  and  set 
them  again  into  the  oven  to  brown ;  when  a  fine  color  they 
are  done.  These  will  be  found  to  be  altogether  superior  to 
custard  pies,  and  quite  equal  to  pumpkin 
5* 


64  EVERY   lady's   BOOK. 

Christmas  Plum  Pudding.  —  Chop  half  a  pound  of 
beef-suet  very  fine ;  stone  and  chop  one  pound  of  raisins 
wash,  pick  clean  from  grit,  and  dry,  a  pound  of  currants 
soak  half  of  a  sixpenny  loaf  of  bread  in  a  pint  of  milk 
when  it  has  taken  up  all  the  milk,  add  to  it  the  raisins,  cur- 
rants, chopped  suet,  and  two  eggs  beaten,  a  tablespoonful  of 
sugar,  one  wine-glass  of  brandy,  one  nutmeg,  grated,  and 
any  other  spice  that  may  be  liked.     Boil  four  hours.     For 
sauce,  beat  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  butter  to  a  cream,  then 
stir  into  it  half  a  pound  of  powdered  loaf-sugar.     Or,  melt 
butter  and  sugar,  and  if  liked,  add  more  brandy. 


To  BOIL  Plum  Pudding.  —  Flour  a  cloth,  put  the  pud- 
ding in  and  tie  it  close,  or  put  it  in  a  tin  basin  ;  tie  a  floured 
cloth  over,  or  in  a  covered  tin  pail;  put  it  into  boiling  wa- 
tery boil  for  three  hours.  Cold  remains  of  plum  pudding 
are  very  fine,  if  put  in  an  oven  and  warmed  through,  after 
having  the  sauce  poured  over  them. 


Plum  Pudding. — Take  half  a  pound  of  flour,  half  a 
pound  of  raisins  stoned  and  chopped,  and  some  currants 
washed,  picked  and  dried ;  use  milk  enough  to  stir  easily 
with  a  spoon ;  add  half  a  pound  of  suet  chopped  fine,  a  tea- 
spoonful  of  salt,  and  four  well-beaten  eggs ;  tie  it  in  a  floured 
cloth,  and  boil  four  hours. 

The  water  must  boil  when  it  is  put  in,  and  contiue  boil- 
ing until  it  is  done.  


Paste  and  Puff  Paste  for  Tarts  and  Pies.  —  Rub 
half  a  pound  of  sweet  butter  into  a  pound  of  flour;  dissolve 
a  little  bit  of  volatile  salts  in  a  little  water,  and  put  it  to  tho 


EVERY   LADY  S    BOOK.  OD 

flour  and  butter;  use  just  enougU  water  to  bind  it;  then  roll 
it  out  rather  thin,  and  use  it. 

Or,  after  preparing  it  and  rolling  it  out  as  above,  spread 
butter  all  over  the  surface ;  fold  it  up ;  roil  it  out  again ; 
flour  the  pie-board  and  rolling-pin  well ;  spread  on  more  but- 
ter ;  fold  and  roll  it  as  before ;  do  it  in  all  three  times,  using 
for  it  half  a  pound  of  butter,  and  it  is  done. 


Lemon  Pudding.  —  Beat  half  a  pound  of  fresh  butter 
to  a  cream,  with  half  a  pound  of  powdered  sugar;  then  add 
to  it  eight  eggs,  well  beaten,  with  the  juice  and  grated  peel 
of  a  large  lemon ;  stir  it  well  together;  line  a  dish  with  puff 
paste ;  fill  with  the  pudding,  and  bake  in  a  moderate  oven. 


Snow  Balls.  —  Put  a  stew-pan  one-quarter  full  of  well- 
washed  rice ;  put  to  it  a  teaspoonful  of  salt,  and  fill  it  up 
with  water;  let  it  boil  until  it  absorbs  all  the  water;  dip 
some  small  bowls  in  water;  fill  them  with  the  rice;  press  it 
lightly  in,  so  as  to  have  the  form  of  the  cup;  when  a  little 
cooled,  turn  them  out  on  a  dish,  and  serve  with  a  sauce. 

Butter  and  sugar  melted  together  with  a  little  grated  nut- 
meg, and  if  liked,  some  brandy  or  wine;  or  squeeze  the 
juice  of  a  large  lemon  to  rather  less  than  half  a  pint  of  mo- 
lasses ;  let  it  boil  to  a  good  syrup ;  add  a  good  bit  of  butter 
and  serve. 


Dish  of  Snow. — To  a  quart  of  cream,  add  the  whites 
of  three  eggs  well  beaten;  four ' spoonfuls  of  sweet  wine; 
sugar  to  taste,  and  a  tf^aspoonful  of  essence  of  lemon ;  whip 
it  ^  >,  fv^t'\  and  serv-ij  in  a  dieep  glass  dish. 


56  EVERY    LADT*S   BOOK. 

Hasty  Pudding.  —  Put  some  milk  over  the  fire,  with  a 
bit  of  lemon-peel  or  essence  of  lemon;  let  it  boil;  then 
having  made  a  large  cup  of  flour  to  a  smooth  paste  with  a 
little  cold  milk,  stir  it,  by  degrees,  into  the  boiling  milk  ;  let 
it  boil,  stirring  it  all  the  time  until  it  is  thick ;  then  dip  a 
bowl  in  cold  water;  pour  the  pudding  in,  and  let  it  cool  a 
little  before  turning  it  out;  eat  with  butter  and  sugar  sauce. 
The  juice  of  a  lemon  or  a  glass  of  wine  is  an  improvement. 


Paste  Pudding.  —  Make  a  paste  crust;  roll  it  rather 
thin;  chop  apples,  and  spread  them  with  some  chopped 
lemon-peel  over  it;  then  begin  at  one  side  and  roll  it  up; 
tie  it  in  a  pudding-cloth,  and  boil  for  two  hours ;  unless  very 
small  serve  with  wine  sauce. 

In  the  place  of  apples,  any  other  fruit,  jelly  or  preserves 
may  be  used. 


Prune  Pudding.  —  Make  a  batter  of  eggs ;  two  to  a 
pint  of  milk;  make  a  rather  thick  batter  with  flour;  wash 
Bome  prunes  in  water,  and  stir  them  in ;  tie  it  in  a  cloth, 
and  boil  two  hours ;  butter  and  sugar  sauce. 


Almond  Pudding.  —  Boil  a  pint  of  milk ;  let  it  cool ; 
beat  three  eggs  very  light,  with  three  tablespoonfuls  of  flour  ; 
pound  two  ounces  of  sweet  almonds  to  a  paste,  with  a  little 
essence  of  lemon  or  rose-water.  Melt  a  tablespoonful  of 
butter  in  the  milk;  then  add  the  other  ingredients  and  two 
spoonfuls  of  sugar.  Bake  in  buttered  cups.  Warm  wine 
for  sauce. 


Floating  Island.  —  Set  a  quart  of  milk  to  boil;  then 
stir  into  it  the  beaten  yolks  of  six  eggs ;  flavor  with  lemon 


EVERY    LADY^S    BOOK.  57 

or  rose,  and  sweeten  to  taste ;  whip  the  whites  of  the  eggs 
to  a  strong  froth.  When  the  custard  is  thick,  put  it  into  a 
deep  dish,  and  heap  the  frothed  eggs  upon  it.     Serve  cold. 


Citron  Pudding.  —  Beat  three  eggs  with  two  spoonfuls 
of  flour;  add  half  a  pint  of  boiled  milk  and  a  quarter  of 
citron,  cut  small.  Put  it  in  buttered  cups ;  bake  in  a  quick 
oven.     When  done,  turn  them  out  in  a  large  dish. 


CocoA-NuT  Pudding.  —  Grate  half  a  cocoa-nut  meat, 
and  stir  into  a  good  custard,  and  bake  in  a  buttered  basin. 

Make  the  custard  of  four  eggs  to  a  quart  of  milk.  Serve 
with  wine  sauce. 

This  may  be  baked  with  an  under-crust.  A  quick  oven 
for  this;  thirty  or  forty  minutes. 


Quaking  Pudding.  —  Grate  a  small  loaf  of  stale  bread ; 
add  to  it  six  well-beaten  eggs,  and  half  a  spoonful  of  rice 
flour.  Stir  into  it  a  quart  of  milk ;  add  essence  of  lemon 
and  some  nutmeg,  and  boil  two  hours ;  or  bake  on  a  buttered 
basin.     Wine  or  brandy  sauce. 


Rich  Batter  Pudding.  —  To  eight  eggs  put  eight 
spoonfuls  of  flour;  beat  them  well;  then  add  a  quart  of 
milk.  Butter  a  dish,  and  bake.  Serve  with  wine  or  brandy, 
and  butter  and  sugar  worked  together.  For  wine  or  brandy, 
substitute  lemon  juice. 


Batter  Pudding. — Beat  three  fresh  eggs  with  six 
spoonfuls  of  flour;  add  to  it,  by  degrees,  a  quart  of  milk,  a 
tablespoonful  of  sugar,  the  same  of  butter.     Flavor  with 


5S  EVERY   lady's   BOOK. 

nutmeg  and  essence  of  lemon,  and  bake  in  a  buttered  basin, 
in  a  quick  oven,  for  an  hour  and  a  half.  When  done,  turn 
it  out. 


Custard.  —  Beat  four  or  six  eggs  light,  and  stir  them  to 
a  quart  of  milk ;  sweeten  to  taste ;  flavor  with  essence  of 
lemon  and  nutmeg,  and  bake  in  a  buttered  basin,  or  small 
cups. 


Mince  Pies. — Boil  a  beef  heart  gently  in  water,  till 
very  tender  y  then  take  it  out,  and  chop  it  very  fine ;  add  to 
it  enough  common  molasses  to  moisten  it;  plenty  of  spice, 
cinnamon,  nutmeg,  allspice  and  cloves.  Put  it  in  a  stone 
pot,  and  keep  it  in  a  cold  place.  It  will  keep  all  winter,  and 
make  richer  pies  than  when  first  prepared.  Other  pieces  of 
beef  will  do  instead. 


To  FINISH  THE  PiE  MIXTURE.  —  Pare,  core  and  chop 
some  rich,  juicy  apples;  take  one-third  as  much  of  the  pre- 
pared meat,  add  it  to  the  apples,  with  chopped  raisins,  lemon 
peel,  and  a  quarter  of  citron,  cut  up ;  a  gill  of  brandy,  and 
sweet  cider  enough  to  make  it  wet.  Sweeten  to  taste  with 
sugar.     Mix  it  well  together. 

Butter  pans  or  pie-dishes,  with  pie  paste  (see  Paste  and 
Puff  Paste  receipts),  fill  with  the  mixture,  and  cover  with 
puff  paste. 

When  the  crust  is  baked,  the  pie  is  done.  They  are  bet- 
ter for  being  baked  in  a  hot  oven.  Make  an  incision  in  the 
upper  crust  to  let  out  the  steam. 


Pumpkin  Pies.  —  Pare  the  outer  rind  from  a  pumpkin  ; 
cut  it  up  and  take  out  the  seeds ;  then  put  it  ovei  the  fir© 


EVERY    lady's    BOOK.  69 

with  a  cup  of  water;  cover  it,  and  let  it  boil  until  it  is  per- 
fectly tender,  and  will  mash ;  then  take  it  into  a  colander  or 
sieve,  with  a  skimmer;  let  it  drain;  then  rub  it  through  the 
fiieve  or  colander,  into  a  deep  basin;  add  to  it  enough  milk 
to  make  it  quite  thin,  one  teaspoonful  of  salt,  a  nutmeg 
grated,  some'essence  of  lemon,  and  six  well-beaten  eggs,  and 
sugar  to  taste.  Line  a  dish  with  paste  or  puff  paste  (see 
receipt),  and  fill  with  the  prepared  pumpkin.  Some  like  gin- 
ger in  the  mixture. 

There  may  be  more  or  less  eggs  than  is  here  directed ;  but 
this  number  to  a  common-sized  cheese  pumpkin  makes  ex- 
cellent pies. 


Albany  Breakfast  Cakes.  —  Ten  eggs,  three  pints 
of  milk,  quarter  of  a  pound  of  butter,  two  teaspoonfuls  of 
salt,  half  a  teaspoonful  of  saleratus,  and  white  Indian  meal 
to  make  thick  batter;  butter  scalloped  oval  tins,  two-thirds 
fill  them  (they  should  hold  about  a  pint),  bake  for  half  an 
hour  in  a  quick  oven. 


PART  II. 


RECEIPTS  FOE  SOUPS,  MEATS,  POULTRY  AND  FISH. 
REMARKS  ON  SOUP  aiAKING. 

Great  care  must  be  taken  that  the  vessel  in  which  soups 
are  made  should  be  perfectly  clean,  and  free  from  any  grease 
or  sand,  otherwise  the  soup  will  be  spoiled.  An  iron  dinner- 
pot  or  a  well  tinned  or  porcelain  kettle  is  best  for  this  pur- 
pose. 

Soup  must  have  a  long  time  to  make;  the  meat  can 
scarcely  be  boiled  too  long  a  time;  but  it  must  be  done 
slowly,  the  meat  will  then  be  more  tender,  and  the  soup  of 
finer  flavor.  There  should  be  but  little  more  water  put  on 
the  meat  than  you  intend  to  have  soup,  and  the  pot  must  not 
be  uncovered  oftener  than  is  absolutely  necessary  for  skim- 
ming it  clear.  A  little  salt  put  in  with  the  meat  will  cause 
the  scum  to  rise,  and  therefore  make  the  soup  clearer. 

Care  should  be  taken  that  it  tastes  equally  of  each  sort  of 
seasoning. 

The  greens  and  vegetables  used  must  be  carefully  prepar- 
ed—  that  is,  picked  and  washed. 

See  that  every  particle  of  scum  is  taken  off  as  it  rises,  and 
before  the  vegetables  are  put  in. 

When  fat  soup  is  not  liked,  the  grease  may  be  skimmed 
off,  before  the  vegetables  are  put  in,  as  it  will  then  be  fit  for 
other  uses. 


EVERY    lady's    book.  61 

The  meat  must  be  put  in  when  the  water  is  cold,  as  put- 
ting it  into  boiling  water  prevents  the  juices  from  being 
given  out  and  renders  the  meat  tough. 

The  water  in  which  fowls  or  meat,  has  been  boiled  will 
make  a  good  dish  of  soup,  by  adding  vegetables  and  season- 
ing, as  any  other  soup. 

The  meat  of  which  soup  has  been  made,  is  good  when 
cold,  cut  in  thin  slices,  or  may  be  served  in  several  nice  lit- 
tle made  dishes  (see  Made  Dishes). 

The  vegetables  most  used  for  soups  are  the  green  parts  of 
celery,  carrots  grated,  or  sliced  turnips,  leeks  and  parsley. 


Oyster  Soup.  —  Take  of  water  and  milk,  each  three 
pints,  set  it  on  the  fire  to  boil ;  roll  half  a  pound  of  crack- 
ers or  soda  biscuit,  and  add  to  it,  with  one  pint  of  oysters  j 
let  it  boil  until  the  flavor  of  the  oyster  is  given  to  the  soup, 
and  the  crackers  are  well  swelled,  then  add  salt  and  pepper 
to  taste,  and  three  pints  more  of  oysters,  and  a  quarter  of  a 
pound  of  fresh  butter ;  put  some  crackers  in  the  tureen,  and 
pour  the  soup  over.  A  sprinkle  of  cayenne  pepper  is  by 
some  considered  an  improvement. 


Lobster  Soup.  —  After  having  boiled  the  lobster,  take 
it  from  the  shell,  roll  two  or  three  crackers,  and  put  them  to 
the  meat  which  may  be  cut  small,  melt  some  butter  in  a 
stew-pan,  two  quarts  of  boiling  milk  or  water,  and  salt  and 
pepper  to  taste  —  let  it  boil  for  half  an  hour;  put  some 
crackers  in  a  tureen,  pour  over  the  soup,  and  serve. 


Mutton  Brcth. — Take  a  neck   of  mutton,  cut  it  in 
pieces,  reserving  a  good  sized  piece  to  serve  in  the  tufeen, 
6 


62  EVERY   lady's   BOOK. 

put  it  into  cold  water  enougli  to  cover  it,  and  cover  the  pot 
close ;  set  it  on  cnals  until  the  water  is  lukewarm,  then  pour 
it  off,  and  skim  it  well,  then  put  it  again  to  the  meat  with 
the  addition  of  five  pints  of  water,  a  t^aspoonful  of  rice  or 
pearl-barlej,  and  an  onion  cut  up;  set  it  on  a  slow  fire,  and 
when  you  have  taken  all  the  scum  off,  put  in  two  or  three 
quartered  turnips.  Let  it  simmer  very  slowly  for  two  hours ; 
then  strain  it  through  a  sieve  into  the  tureen ;  add  pepper 
and  salt  to  taste. 


Savoy  Soup.  —  Cut  into  quarters  and  boil  in  clear  water, 
one  or  two  heads  of  savoy  cabbage ;  when  tender  drain  the 
water  off,  and  press  all  the  water  from  them,  then  put  them 
to  as  much  beef-broth  as  will  cover  them,  put  it  into  a 
closely-covered  stewpan  over  a  moderate  fire  for  two  hours ; 
then  set  on  the  fire  a  large  frying-pan  with  a  quarter  of  a 
pound  of  fresh  butter,  shake  some  fiour  from  a  dredging-box 
into  it  and  let  it  brown,  stir  all  the  time,  peel  and  cut  up' 
two  onions,  and  stir  it  well  about ;  as  soon  as  they  are  nicely 
colored  add  it  to  the  soup ;  soak  some  rolls  or  crackers  in  a 
quart  of  boiling  milk  or  water,  and  add  it  to  the  soup.  Mut- 
ton or  veal  broth  may  be  used. 


Stock  for  Gravy  Soup  or  Gravy  —  Cut  a  knuckle  of 
veal  into  slices,  and  a  pound  of  lean  beef,  put  these  with  the 
knuckle-bone  into  two  quarts  of  water ;  cover  it  close  and 
let  it  stew  till  very  tender,  then  strain  it  off.  When  made 
in  this  way,  it  may  be  used  for  soups  or  gravies. 


Turtle  Soup.  —  Cut  the  head  of  the  turtle  off  the  day 
before  vou  dress  it,  and  place  the  body  so  as  to  drain  it  well 


EVERY    lady's    BOOK.  63 

from  blood;  the  next  day  cut  it  up  in  the  following  man- 
ner :  Divide  the  back,  belly,  fins  and  head,  from  the  intes- 
tines and  lean  parts;  take  care  to  cut  the  gall  clean  out 
without  breaking;  scald  in  boiling  water  the  first-named 
parts,  so  as  to  take  ofi"  the  skin  and  shell,  cut  them  in  pieces 
small  enough  to  stew,  and  throw  them  into  cold  water;  boil 
the  back  and  belly  in  water  long  enough  to  extract  the 
bones;  put  the  meat  on  a  dish,  then  make  a  good  stock  of 
a  leg  of  veal,  lean  ham  and  the  flesh  of  the  inside  of  the 
turtle,  draw  it  down  to  a  color,  then  fill  it  up  with  beef 
stock,  and  the  liquor  and  bones  of  the  boiled  turtle.  Sea- 
son with  stalks  of  marjoram,  and  boil  some  onions,  a  bunch 
of  parsley,  cloves  and  whole  pepper.  Let  it  boil  slowly  for 
four  hours,  then  strain  it  to  the  pieces  of  back,  fins,  belly, 
and  head  of  the  turtle,  take  the  bones  from  the  fins,  and  cut 
the  rest  in  neat  square  pieces,  with  as  little  waste  as  possi- 
ble. Thicken  the  stock  with  butter  rolled  in  flour,  and 
boil  it,  to  cleanse  it  from  grease  and  scum ;  then  stra"in  it 
through  a  cloth;  then  boil  your  herbs  that  have  been 
washed  and  pickled,  in  a  bottle  of  Madeira  wine,  with  a  lit- 
tle sugar.  The  herbs  to  be  used,  are  marjoram,  thyme,  ba- 
sil and  parsley ;  then  put  together  soup,  herbs,  meat,  and 
some  forcemeat,  and  egg-balls.  Boil  it  for  a  short  time,  and 
put  it  away  in  clean  pans  until  the  following  day,  as  the  raw- 
ness will  go  off,  and  the  flavor  be  improved  by  so  doing.  In 
cutting  up  the  turtle  the  fat  should  be  taken  great  care  of. 
It  should  be  separated,  cut  in  neat  pieces,  and  stewed  tender 
in  a  little  of  the  soup,  and  put  into  the  tureen  at  last. 


Chicken  Soup.  —  An  old  fowl  makes  good  soup.  Cut 
it  up ;  first  take  off  the  wings,  legs  and  neck ;  then  divide 
it  down  the  sides,  and  cut  the  back  and  breast  each  in  two 


64  EVLKY    lady's    BOOK. 

pieces;  cut  half  a  pound  of  poik  iu  tbin  slices,  aud  put  it 
with  the  cut  up  fowl  into  four  or  five  pints  of  water,  set  it 
over  a  gentle  fire,  skim  it  clear,  taking  care  not  to  keep  it 
open  longer  than  is  necessary,  add  a  cup  of  rice  or  pearl 
barley,  cayenne  and  black  pepper  to  taste,  a  leek  sliced,  and 
potatoes  cut  in  halves;  if  liked,  a  grated  or  sliced  carrot, 
and  a  turnip  cut  small  may  be  added. 


Another  Chcken  Soup.  —  Take  two  or  three  pounds 
of  veal  and  one  small  chicken  cut  up,  boil  these  in  two 
quarts  of  water,  cut  up  four  onions  or  a  leek,  grate  two  car- 
rots and  add  them  to  the  soup ;  salt  and  pepper  to  taste,  skim 
it  clear.  Other  vegetables  may  be  substituted  or  added  as 
may  be  preferred ;  thicken  the  soup  with  a  little  batter  of 
flour  and  water  with  an  egg  beaten  in. 


Cabbage  Soup.  —  Boil  corned  beef  in  a  pot  of  water 
until  half  done,  then  add  two  small  heads  of  cabbage,  cut  in 
quarters  and  well  washed  (examine  carefully,  as  insects  are 
sometimes  concealed  between  the  leaves) ;  when  it  is  done 
tender  take  out  the  largest  pieces  and  drain  them  in  a  colan- 
der, and  set  it  over  a  pot  of  hot  water  to  keep  it  hot;  if  the 
meat  is  tender,  take  that  up  also,  and  add  to  the  soup  a  cup 
of  pearl  barley  or  rice,  a  dozen  or  more  potatoes  peeled  and 
cut  in  halves,  two  or  three  turnips  and  some  sliced  or  gra- 
ted carrots ;  if  liked,  an  onion  or  two  may  also  be  added ; 
let  it  boil  until  the  vegetables  are  all  done ;  put  the  meat  on 
a  large  dish,  and  the  cabbage  and  other  vegetables  on  small 
dishes,  for  side  dishes.  This  makes  a  good  family  dinner. 
Serve  the  soup  in  a  tureen,  hot;  thicken  with  a  tablespoon- 
ful  of  flour  made  in  thin  paste  with  water. 


EVERY    lady's   BOOK.  65 

Mutton  Soup. — Boil  the  neck  or  scrag  of  mutttn  in 
two  quarts  of  water;  when  boiled  slowly  for  two  or  three 
hours,  add  grated  or  sliced  carrots,  tomatoes  peeled,  quar- 
tered and  sliced  turnips  and  potatoes;  boil  slowly  until  the 
meat  falls  from  the  bones;  season  high  with  black  and  cay- 
enne pepper;  salt  to  taste;  beat  an  egg  with  a  spoonful  of 
flour,  and  stir  it  into  the  soup,  and  serve  with  or  without  the 
meat  and  ven;etables. 


Shin  of  Beef  Soup.  —  Take  a  shin  of  beef,  wash  it, 
break  the  bones,  and  put  it  in  a  pot  of  water,  skim  it  as  it 
boils;  do  not  use  much  more  water  than  you  wish  soup, 
more  can  be  added  if  necessary,  but  it  must  be  boiling  hot. 
Should  too  much  fat  rise,  skim  it  off  before  putting  in  the 
vegetables  (as  they  would  impart  a  taste  which  would  render 
it  unfit  for  other  uses) ;  add  salt  to  taste,  a  teaspoonful  of 
black  pepper,  and  a  cup  of  pearl  barley,  grits  or  rice ;  have 
ready  five  or  six  potatoes  peeled  and  cut  in  halves,  three  or 
four  ripe  tomatoes  peeled,  and  some  turnips  pared  and  cut 
in  slices  or  quarters;  when  the  meat  has  boiled  slowly  for 
at  least  three  hours,  put  in  the  vegetables ;  when  these  are 
done  take  up  the  meat  on  a  dish,  and  the  vegetables  on 
smaller  dishes.     Serve  the  soup  in  a  tureen. 


Cabbage  and  Milk  Soup. — Boil  a  large  white  heart 
cabbage  in  water ;  when  half  done  take  one  quart  of  the  wa- 
ter, add  to  this  three  pints  of  boiling  milk ;  finish  by  adding 
four  ounces  of  butter,  and  salt  and  pepper  to  taste. 


Green  Pea  Soup.  — Boil  two  pounds  of  veal  or  lamb  in 
about   two    quarts   of   water;    when    boiled    enough   and 


66  EVERY   lady's   book. 

skimmed  clear,  add  a  quart  of  shelled  peas  and  a  slice  or 
two  of  corned  pork  (say  a  quarter  of  a  pound)  with  five  or 
six  potatoes  pared  and  sliced,  and  let  it  boil  until  they  are 
done;  then  take  up  the  peas  in  a  deep  dish  by  themselves, 
add  a  piece  of  butter  and  some  pepper ;  take  up  the  pota- 
toes (new  ones),  add  a  bit  of  butter  and  some  pepper,  and 
serve  the  soup  in  a  tureen  with  the  meat. 


Pea  Soup.  —  Put  a  quart  of  split  peas  into  a  gallon  of 
water,  w^ith  a  pound  or  two  of  corned  pork,  let  it  boil  slowly 
until  the  peas  are  tender;  then  add  potatoes,  and  when  they 
are  done  add  pepper  to  taste,  and  serve. 


Onion  Soup.  —  Put  half  a  pound  of  butter  into  a  stew- 
pan  and  let  it  boil ;  have  ready  ten  or  twelve  large  onions 
peeled  and  cut  small,  put  them  into  the  butter  and  fry  a  nice 
brown,  sprinkle  in  a  little  flour,  and  shake  the  pan  often ; 
keep  it  over  the  fire  for  some  minutes,  then  pour  in  three 
pints  of  boiling  milk,  stir  it  well ;  cut  some  pie-crust  in 
slips,  throw  it  in,  add  salt  to  taste,  then  let  it  boil  for  ten 
minutes,  stirring  it  frequently,  then  take  it  from  the  fire ; 
beat  the  yolks  of  two  hard-boiled  eggs  with  a  tablespoonful 
of  vinegar;  first  mix  some  of  the  soup  with  this,  then  stir 
it  to  the  remainder.     Serve  very  hot. 


Mock  TtiitTLE  Soup.  —  Take  one  pound  and  a  half  of 
lean  veal  or  tripe  (which  is  best),  cut  it  into  small  slices,  and 
fry  to  a  delicate  brown.  Cut  the  meat  from  three  cow-heels 
m  tolerably  large  pieces,  then  put  it  with  the  fried  veul  or 
tripe  into  a  pint  and  a  half  of  weak  gravy,  with  thre6  an- 
chovies, a  little  salt,  some  cayenne  pepper,  three  blades  of 


EVERY   lady's   BOOK.  67 

mace,  nine  cloves,  the  green  parts  of  three  leeks,  three  sprigs 
of  lemon  thyme,  some  parsley  and  lemon  peel;  chop  these 
last  very  fine  before  adding  them,  let  the  whole  stew  gently 
for  three  hours;  then  squeeze  the  juice  of  three  lemons  to 
it;  add  three  glasses  of  Madeira  wine,  and  let  it  stew  for 
one  hour  more,  then  skim  off  the  fat  and  serve. 


Green  Bean  Soup.  —  String  half  a  peck  of  beans  and 
cut  them  in  pieces  of  about  an  inch  in  length,  and  finish  the 
same  as  green  pea  soup. 


Soup  for  Lent.  —  Put  a  quart  of  milk  over  the  fire  with 
four  ounces  of  butter  and  a  tablespoonful  of  flour  rolled  in 
it,  and  pepper  and  salt  to  taste;  put  some  rolled  crackers 
or  slices  of  bread  into  a  tureen,  and  pour  it  over.  A  blade 
of  mace  may  be  added  to  the  seasoning. 


To  MAKE  Egg  Balls  for  Soups.  —  Take  the  yolks  of 
six  hard-boiled  eggs,  pound  them  in  a  mortar,  with  a  little 
flour,  a  sprinkle  of  salt,  and  the  yolks  of  two  raw  eggs;  mix 
all  well  together,  roll  it  into  little  balls,  drop  each  into  boil- 
incf  water. 


Ox  Head  Soup.  —  Take  half  an  ox  head,  lay  it  in  cold 
and  salt  water  over  night,  then  break  the  bones  and  wash  it 
in  warm  water;  after  which,  put  it  over  the  fire  with  more 
waiter  th ail  will  cover' it;  let  it  boil  slowly,  skin  it  clear,  and 
when  the  meat  is  terider,  add  two  or  three  turnips,  a  grated 
carrot,  an  dniori  of  two,  some  potatoes,'  a'nd  salt  and  pepper 
to  taste ;  then  cover  and'st^w  it  gently  until  the  meat  leaves 


68  EVERY    lady's   BOOK. 

the  bones  —  then  take  up  the  meat.     If  the  soup  is  too  rich, 
add  some  boiling  water. 

Chop  the  meat,  season  high  with  pepper  and  salt,  and  tie 
it  in  a  cloth,  to  be  eaten  cold  cut  in  slices,  or  it  may  be  eaten 
hot.     Serve  the  soup  in  a  tureen. 


Soup  Maigre.  —  Melt  half  a  pound  of  butter  in  a  stew- 
pan,  slice  six  onions  into  it,  add  celery  cut  small,  one  very 
small  head  of  cabbage  and  some  parsley  cut;  shake  these 
together  over  the  fire  for  fifteen  minutes,  then  stir  in  some 
flour  or  rolled  crackers ;  add  further,  two  quarts  of  boiling 
milk  or  wat-er,  and  pepper  or  salt  to  taste;  stir  the  whole 
well  together,  and  let  it  boil  gently  for  three-quarters  of  an 
hour,  then  take  it  from  the  fire,  stir  in  the  well-beaten  yolks 
of  two  eggs,  and  serve  hot. 


Clam  Soup.  —  Take  fifty  or  more  hard-shell  clams,  wash 
them  clean,  and  put  them  in  a  pot  with  the  edges  of  the 
shells  turned  downwards,  that  they  may  be  clear  of  sand ; 
just  cover  with  water,  and  let  them  boil  until  the  shells 
open,  then  take  them  and  the  shells  from  the  water  and 
strain,  then  put  to  it  one  pound  of  rolled  crackers,  a  quart 
of  milk,  and  pepper  and  salt  to  taste ;  let  it  boil  until  the 
clams  are  tender,  then  add  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  butter, 
and  serve  hot. 


Cat-fish  or  Bull-head  Soup.  —  Cut  the  heads  from 
the  fish,  skin  and  clean  them,  and  wash  them  well ;  cut 
them  in  pieces,  put  with  them  one  pound  of  fat  ham  or  salt 
pork,  som«  pepper  and  salt,  and  two  quarts  of  water;  let  it 
boil  until  the  fish  is  tender;  beat  t^o  fresh  eggs  with  two 


EVERY   lady's   BOOK.  69 

Spoonfuls  of  flour  and  half  a  pint  of  boiled  milk ;  add  a  ta- 
blespoonful  of  butter,  let  all  boil  up  once,  then  take  out  the 
ham  or  pork,  and  serve  in  a  deep  tureen. 


Soup  without  Meat.  —  Put  two  quarts  of  water  in  a 
stewpan  with  a  penny  roll  cut  up,  some  pepper,  an  onion  or 
two,  and  one  teaspoonful  of  salt,  cover  it  close,  and  boil  it 
for  half  an  hour,  cut  the  white  parts  of  celery  and  lettuce 
into  it,  boil  it  for  some  time,  then  strain  it  into  a  clean  stew- 
pan,  add  a  piece  of  butter,  soak  some  crackers  in  a  part  of 
it,  and  pour  the  whole  into  a  deep  tureen. 


Eel  Soup.  —  To  one  quart  of  water  put  one  pound  of 
eels  cut  into  pieces,  some  crumbs  of  bread,  whole  bhick  pep- 
per, an  onion,  and  half  a  cup  of  milk,  with  a  teaspoonful  of 
flour  stirred  into  it;  cover  close  and  let  it  boil  until  the  eels 
are  done;  toast  some  bread  cut  in  bits,  butter  them,  and 
pour  the  soup  over. 

Eel  soup  may  be  made  ttie  same  as  oyster  soup,  putting 
in  all  the  eels  when  the  crackers  are  put  in. 


To  make  a  strong  Fish  Gravy. — Take  two  or  three 
eels,  or  any  other  fish,  skin  or  scale  them  clean,  and  wash 
them ;  cut  them  in  small  pieces,  put  them  in  a  saucepan  and 
cover  them  with  water;  add  a  crust  of  bread  toasted,  some 
whole  pepper,  and  salt  to  taste ;  if  liked,  a  few  sweet  herbs 
may  be  added.  Let  it  boil  slowly  until  it  is  rich  and  good, 
have  ready  a  bit  of  butter  (a  piece  the  size  of  a  walnut  for 
every  pint),  melt  it  in  a  saucepan,  then  shake  in  a  little 
flour,  and  toss  it  about  until  it  is  browned ;  then  strain  if 
through  a  gravy  strainer,  and  let  it  boil  for  a  few  minutes 
If  liked,  add  a  glass  of  wine. 


?6  EVERY    lady's   BOOK. 

Beef  Broth.  —  Take  a  leg  of  beef,  crack  the  bone  in 
two  or  three  parts,  wash  it  clean,  and  put  it  into  a  gallon  of 
water;  let  it  boil  slowly  and  skim  it  well,  then  put  in  salt 
and  pepper,  a  little  bundle  of  parsley,  and  a  crust  of  bread  ; 
let  it  boil  until  the  beef  is  tender  3  cut  toast  into  square 
bits,  put  them  in  a  tureen,  lay  in  the  meat  without  the 
boneS;  and  pour  the  broth  over. 


Vermicelli  Soup.  —  Swell  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  ver- 
micelli in  two  quarts  of  warm  water,  then  add  it  to  a  strong 
broth  or  gravy  soup,  let  it  boil  for  ten  minutes,  then  serve. 


Macaroni  Soup. — Take  three  quarts  of  strong  broth, 
and  one  of  gravy  mixed  together  3  take  half  a  pound  of  small 
pipe  macaroni,  and  boil  it  in  three  quarts  of  water,  with  a 
little  butter  in  it,  until  it  is  tender;  then  drain  in  a  sieve,  cut 
it  in  pieces  of  about  an  inch  length,  boil  it  for  ten  min- 
utes in  the  soup,  and  serve  in  a  ^tureen. 


RE3IARKS   ON   FISH. 

There  is  a  general  rule  in  choosing  most  sorts  of  fish. 
If  the  gills  are  red,  the  eyes  full,  and  the  whole  fish  firm 
and  stiff,  they  are  fresh  and  good;  if  on  the  contrary  the 
gills  are  pale,  the  eyes  sunk,  and  the  flesh  flabby,  they  are 
stale. 

Great  care  must  be  taken  that  fish  are  properly  cleaned 
before  being  dressed;  that  is,  they  must  be.  entirely  fvea 
from  scales  and  every  particle  of  the  insides  scraped  from 


EVERY   lady's   BOOK.  71 

them ;  they  must  not  be  crushed  beyond  what  is  necessary 
for  cleaning  then),  as  that  diminishes  the  flavor. 

When  cleansed,  if  the  fish  is  to  be  boiled,  put  some  salt 
and  vinegar  into  the  water  to  make  it  firm ;  care  must  be 
taken  to  boil  the  fish  well,  but  not  to  let  it  break. 

Fresh  cod,  haddock,  whiting,  and  shad,  are  better  for  be- 
ing salted  the  night  before  cooking  them. 

There  is  often  a  muddy  smell  and  taste  attached  to  fresh- 
water fish,  which  my  be  got  rid  of  by  soaking  it  after  it  has 
been  thoroughly  cleaned  in  strong  salt  and  water,  after  which 
iry  it  in  a  napkin,  and  dress  it.  Put  the  fish  in  cold  water 
and  boil  it  gently,  otherwise  the  skin  will  break  before  the 
fish  is  cooked. 

If  fish  is  not  taken  from  the  water  as  soon  as  done,  it  will 
be  woolly;  to  ascertain  if  it  is  done,  draw  up  the  fish-drain- 
er on  which  it  is  laid,  and  if  the  flesh  parts  from  the  bones, 
it  is  done;  if  so,  set  it  crosswise  of  the  kettle  and  throw  a 
thickly-folded  cloth  or  napkin  over  to  keep  it  hot. 

To  fry  small  fish,  they  may  be  done  plain  or  dipped  in 
flour,  or  first  dipped  in  the  beaten  yolks  of  eggs  and  then 
in  grated  bread  crumbs,  and  fried  in  hot  lard  or  beef- 
drippings,  or  you  may  use  equal  parts  of  lard  and  butter; 
butter  alone  takes  out  the  sweetness,  and  gives  a  bad  color; 
the  fat  must  be  boiling  hot  before  putting  in  the  fish. 

Fried  parsley,  grated  horse-radish,  or  slices  of  lemon,  are 
used  as  garnish. 

To  fry  or  broil  fish  properly,  after  it  is  well  cleansed,  it 
should  be  laid  on  a  folded  napkin,  and  all  the  water  dried 
out ;  when  perfectly  dry  dip  it  in  wheat  flour  or  beaten  epgs, 
and  then  into  bread  crumbs;  if  wet  over  and  sprinkled 
twice  with  bread  crumbs  before  frying  or  broiling,  it  will 
look  better  for  it. 


72  EVERY   lady's   BOOK. 

Have  a  thick-bottomed  fryiDg-pan,  with  plenty  of  lard  or 
beet-drippiQg  boiling  hot,  lay  the  fish  into  it,  and  let  it  fry 
quickly  till  it  is  done  of  a  rich  yellow  brown ;  when  one  side 
is  done  turn  the  other.  If  wanted  particularly  nice,  a  sheet 
of  cap  paper  must  be  laid  to  receive  the  fish,  or  if  :t  is  boiled, 
let  a  buttered  paper  be  folded  about  it;  have  a  clean  grid- 
iron rubbed  over  with  suet,  and  a  clear,  bright  fire  of  coals ; 
to  prevent  its  tasting  smoky  it  may  be  done  without  the  pa- 
per;  a  fluted  gridiron  is  best  for  any  broiling. 

For  broiled  fish  have  butter  on  a  hot  dish  with  pepper  and 
salt  to  taste,  the  same  as  for  a  steak. 

All  salt  fish  require  soaking  before  cooking,  according  to 
the  time  it  has  been  in  salt ;  that  which  is  hard  and  dry  re- 
quires two  nights  soaking,  changing  the  water  three  or  four 
times;  when  not  hard  or  very  salt,  twenty-four  hours  will  be 
sufficient. 


Salmon.  —  When  salmon  is  fresh  and  good,  the  gills  and 
flesh  are  of  a  bright  red,  the  scales  clear,  and  the  fish  is  stifi*. 
When  just  killed,  there  is  a  whiteness  between  the  flakes, 
which  by  keeping,  melts  down,  and  the  fish  becomes  richer. 

Salmon  requires  to  be  well  boiled,  as  it  is  very  unwhole- 
some when  under-done  —  boil  with  horse-radish  in  the  water, 
anchovy,  lobster,  or  plain  drawn  butter-sauce ;  garnish  with 
horse-radish  and  sliced  lemon. 


Boiled  Salmon.  —  Run  a  packthread  through  the  tail, 
centre  of  the  body,  and  head  of  fish,  to  bring  it  in  the  form 


EVERY   lady's    BOOK,  73 

of  a  letter  S;  then  put  it  into  a  kettle  with  spring  water, 
and  plenty  of  salt.  Cut  three  or  four  slanting  gashes  ou 
each  side  of  the  fishj  before  making  it  in  a  form,  otherwise  the 
skin  will  break  and  disfigure  the  fish.  Serve  with  lobster 
sauce. 


Broiled  Salmon. — Cut  some  slices  (about  an  inch 
thick),  season  with  pepper  and  salt;  wrap  each  slice  in  half 
a  sheet  of  well-buttered  white  paper ;  twist  the  ends  of  the 
paper  and  broil  them  over  a  fire  of  bright  coals  for  ten  min- 
utes. Serve  in  the  butter  with  drawn  butter  or  anchovy 
sauce. 


Dried  Salmon.  —  Cut  the  fish  down  the  back,  take  out 
the  inside,  and  roe  —  scale  it,  and  rub  the  whole  with  com- 
mon salt,  and  hang  it  to  drain  for  twenty-four  hours. 
Pound  three  or  four  ounces  of  saltpetre,  two  ounces  of 
coarse  salt,  and  two  ounces  of  brown  sugar ;  mix  these  well, 
and  rub  into  the  salmon,  and  lay  it  on  a  large  dish  for  two 
days ;  then  rub  it  well  with  common  salt,  and  in  twenty -four 
hours  more  it  will  be  fit  to  dry ;  wipe  it  well  after  draining. 
Stretch  it  open  with  two  sticks,  and  hang  it  in  a  wood  chim- 
ney, or  in  a  dry  place. 


Broiled  Salmon,  —  Dried  salmon  is  eaten  broiled  in 
paper,  and  only  just  warmed  through.  Egg  sauce  and  mashed 
potatoes  are  usually  served  with  it;  or  it  may  be  boiled,  or 
lay  it  in  soak  in  pure  water  for  an  hour  or  two  before  boil- 
ing ;  rub  the  gridiron  over  with  a  bit  of  suet,  lay  on  the 
salmon,  shake  a  little  pepper  over,  and  serve, 
•  7 


74  EVERY   lady's   BOOK. 

To  i>RESS  DRIED  Salmon.  —  Pall  some  dried  salmon  is 
flakes,  chop  some  hard-boiled  eggs  iu  large  pieces,  and  put 
the  salmon  and  eggs  into  half  a  pint  of  thick  cream,  and 
three  ounces  of  butter  with  a  teaspoouful  of  flour  rubbed 
into  it ;  skim  and  stir  it  boiling  hot ;  make  a  wall  of  mashed  po- 
tatoes around  the  sides  of  a  dish,  and  pour  the  aboye  into  it. 


To  BAKE  A  Salmon  Whole.  —  Clean  the  fish  and  sea- 
son well  outside  and  inside  with  pepper  and  salt;  mix  some 
butter  together,  and  lay  it  in  bits  over  the  inside,  and  stick 
it  over  the  fish  outside  from  it  in  a  circle  (by  running  a 
string  through  the  head  and  tail  and  tying  them  together), 
put  three  or  four  muffin-rings  in  a  deep  pan  or  dish,  lay  the 
fish  on,  and  baste,  while  baking,  with  melted  butter. 


Pickled  Salmon.  —  Boil  a  salmon,  and  afler  wiping  it 
dry,  set  it  to  cool.  The  next  day  take  vinegar  enough  to 
cover  it,  add  to  it  cloves,  mace,  whole  pepper,  and  allspice ; 
make  it  boiling  hot,  and  then  pour  it  over  the  cold  fish.  It 
will  be  fit  for  use  in  three  or  four  days. 


To  CHOOSE  Flounders.  —  They  must  be  thick  and  stifle, 
the  eyes  bright  and  full,  and  must  be  dressed  as  fresh  as 
possible,  as  they  soon  become  flabby  and  bad. 

To  boil  them,  put  them  in  a  stew-pan,  with  water  to  cover 
them,  in  which  there  is  a  little  vinegar,  salt,  and  horse-radish  ; 
have  the  fish  well  cleaned,  both  outside  and  in,  and  boil 
them  slowly,  for  fear  of  breaking  —  serve  with  drawn  but- 
ter; garnish  with  parsley. 


Flounders  Boiled.  —  Wash  the  fish,  scrape  them  clean 
outside  and  in,  dry  them  in  a  cloth^  and  dredge  them  well 


EVERY    lady's    BOOK.  75 

with  flour ;  then  have  a  clear  fire  of  coals,  rub  the  bars  of  a 
gridiron  with  a  bit  of  suet^or  fat  pork,  and  lay  on  the  fish; 
when  done  well  on  both  sides  lay  them  on  a  hot  dish,  butter 
them  well,  and  add  pepper  and  salt  to  taste. 


Flounders  Fried.  —  Having  well  cleaned,  washed  and 
dried  the  fish,  dredge  it  well  with  flour ;  have  a  pan  of  lard 
boiling  hot  (salt  the  lard),  lay  in  the  fish,  and  fry  one  side 
a  nice  brown ;  then  turn  the  other :  when  both  are  done, 
serve  hot.  If  the  fish  are  large,  for  frying  or  broiling,  gash 
the  sides  wifh  a  sharp  knife  rather  more  than  skin  deep. 


Eels.  —  Eels  must  be  dressed  as  fresh  as  possible,  or  they 
loose  their  sweetness.  Cut  ofi"  the  head  and  skin  them;  cut 
them  open,  and  scrape  them  free  from  every  string. 

They  are  good  all  the  year,  except  the  hottest  summer 
months;  the  fiit  ones  are  best. 


Baked  Eels.  —  After  skinning  and  cleanning  the  eels, 
take  a  shallow  pan,  cut  the  eels  in  length  the  depth  of  the 
pan,  and  stand  them  upright  into  it;  the  pan  must  be  filled; 
put  in  a  little  water,  strew  salt  and  pepper  over,  and  if  liked, 
one  or  two  onions  chopped  fine,  and  some  parsley  cut  small. 
Set  them  in  an  oven  to  bake ;  when  they  are  well  done, 
take  them  from  the  liquor,  thicken  it  with  a  piece  of  butter, 
rolled  in  flour;  let  it  boil  up  once;  then  pour  it  over  the 
fish  and  serve.  A  little  vinegar  in  the  sauce  improves  it  for 
some. 


Boiled  Eels.  — The  smallest  are  best  for  boiling;  they 
should  be  boiled  in  a  small  (juantity  of  water,  in  which  is 


76  EVERY   lady's   BOOK. 

some  parsley  and  horse-radish.     Serve  with  drawn  butter  or 
eo:2;-sauce. 


Eels  Broiled.  —  Skin  and  cleanse  the  eels,  and  roll  them 
in  flour,  or  dip  them  in  eggs,  and  then  roll  them  in  grated 
bread  crumbs  3  lay  them  on  a  buttered  paper  on  a  gridiron 
(or  they  may  be  done  without  the  paper),  have  some  butter 
sprinkled  with  pepper  and  salt  on  a  hot  dish,  and  lay  the 
eels  on  as  they  are  cooked ;  large  ones  must  be  cut  in  pie- 
ces; small  ones  may  be  done  whole.     Garnish  with  parsley. 


Collared  Eels.  —  Cut  a  large  eel  open,  take  out  the 
bones,  cut  off"  the  head  and  tail,  and  lay  the  eel  flat  3  rub 
it  over  with  a  mixture  of  pepper,  chopped  sage,  and  salt; 
then  roll  it  up,  and  tie  it  in  a  cloth ;  then  set  over  the  fire 
some  water  in  which  is  some  pepper  and  salt,  a  clove  or  two, 
and  a  little  vinegar,  and  the  bones,  head,  and  tail,  of  the 
eel;  boil  these  well;  then  put  in  tlie  eel,  and  boil  it  until 
it  is  tender;  then  take  it  out,  boil  the  liquor  for  some  time, 
and  then,  afier  having  cooled  it,  put  it  over  the  eel.  Do  not 
take  off  the  cloth  until  you  use  them. 


A  little  dish  of  Eels.  —  Take  some  good-sized  eels, 
bone  them,  and  cut  them  in  pieces  of  a  finger  length,  then 
put  them  over  the  fire,  in  water,  with  a  little  vinega?,  pep- 
per, salt,  a  bit  of  butter,  and  an  onion  chopped  ;  when  nearly 
done,  take  them  from  the  liquor,  roll  them  in  flour  or  bread 
crumbs,  and  finish  by  frying  or  broiling. 


Fricasseed  Eels.  —  After  skimming,  cleaning  and  cut- 
ting them  in  pieces,  boil  them  in  a  little  water  until  tender ; 


EVERY   lady's   BOOK.  77 

then  add  a  piece  of  butter  rolled  in  flour,  pepper  and  salt, 
to  taste ;  and  if  liked,  a  little  parsley.     Serve  hot. 


Codfish.  —  A  codfish,  when  good,  is  firm,  the  flesh  white, 
the  gills  red,  and  the  eyes  full ;  if  at  all  flabby,  it  is  not 
good.  A  fine  fish  is  thick  at  the  back  of  the  neck ;  it  is  best 
in  cold  weather. 


Boiled  Fresh  Cod.  —  Tie  the  fish  up  in  a  cloth,  put 
plenty  of  water  into  the  kettle,  put  some  salt  and  scraped 
horse-radish  in  with  the  fish  ;  boil  it  gently  until  done,  and 
serve  with  drawn  butter,  oyster  or  egg-sauce;  lay  a  napkin 
folded  on  a  dish,  and  turn  the  fish  on  it. 


Baked  Cod.  —  Parboil  a  small  fish,  or  a  piece  of  a  large 
one,  then  dry  it  in  a  cloth,  dredge  it  well  with  flour,  stick  it 
full  of  bits  of  butter,  sprinkle  salt  and  pepper  over;  lay 
some  muffin-rings  in  a  dripping-pan ;  place  the  fish  on  these, 
and  put  some  water  in  the  pan  to  baste  with.  When  done, 
serve  with  the  gravy. 

Broiled  Cod.  —  Split  a  small  cod  from  head  to  tail,  cut 
the  sides  in  pieces  of  about  three  inches  width,  dip  them  in 
flour,  and  broil ;  have  some  butter,  pepper  and  salt,  on  a  hot 
dish ;  lay  the  fish  on  this,  and  serve. 

Or,  take  the  steaks,  broil  them  in  the  same  way,  or  with 
buttered  paper  folded  around  them. 


Fried  Cod.  —  Take  steaks  of  about  an  inch  thickness, 
dredge  them  with  flour,  and  fry  them  in  hot  fat,  or  if  a 
7* 


78  EVERY   lady's   BOOK. 

small  one,  cut  it  the  same  as  for  boiling,  and  flour  it,  or  first 
dip  it  in  the  beaten  yolks  of  eggs,  and  then  in  bread  crumbs. 


Salt  Codfish.  —  Put  the  fish  in  soak  over  night,  tie  it 
in  a  cloth,  and  boil  in  clear  water ;  serve  with  plain  boiled 
potatoes  and  drawn  butter  or  egg  sauce. 


Dried  Codfish.  —  This  should  always  be  laid  in  soak 
with  plenty  of  water,  at  least  one  night  before  cooking;  af- 
ter which,  scrape  it  well,  and  put  it  in  plenty  of  cold  water; 
let  it  boil  gently,  skim  it ;  when  done,  serve  with  egg  sauce 
over,  or  cut  hard-boiled  eggs  in  slices,  lay  them  over  the  fish, 
and  serve  with  drawn  butter  in  a  boat. 


Stewed  Salt  Cod.  —  Scald  some  cod,  scrape  it  white, 
then  pick  it  in  pieces,  and  put  it  in  a  stewpan  with  some  but- 
ter rolled  in  flour,  milk  enough  to  moisten  it,  and  pepper  to 
taste,  and  let  it  stew  slowly  for  some  minutes ;  then  serve  hot. 


To  make  a  dish  of  cold  boiled  Cod.  —  Take  some 
boiled  fish,  chop  it  fine,  pour  some  drawn  butter  or  egg 
sauce  over,  add  pepper  to  taste ;  warm  it  thoroughly,  stir- 
ring it  to, prevent  its  burning;  make  a  roll,  or  any  other 
form  of  it;  put  little  spots  of  pepper  over,  and  if  you  please, 
brown  the  outside  before  a  fire. 


A  little  dish  of  dried  Cod.  —  Pick  some  dried  cod 
in  flakes,  pour  boiling  water  over,  scald  it  up  once,  then 
throw  the  water  off";  put  some  hot  milk  or  water  over,  to 
which  add  a  bit  of  butter,  and  pepper  to  taste,  and  serve. 


EVERY    LAi>i'*IS    BOOK  79 

Codfish  Balls.  —  First  boil  the  fish,  then  take  the 
white  part,  chop  it  fine  with  a  chopping-knife,  add  potatoes 
mashed  with  milk,  and  a  little  butter,  an  equal  quantity, 
and  form  them  in  cakes,  with  a  raw  egg  or  two,  and  a  little 
flour ;  dredge  the  outside  with  flour,  and  fry  in  hot  lard  or 
drippings ;  garnish  with  fried  parsley. 


Haddocks.  —  These  are  chosen  by  the  same  rules,  and 
dressed  in  the  same  manner  as  cod. 


Shad.  —  These  are  chosen  by  the  same  rules  as  other 
fish.     They  may  be  baked,  fried  or  broiled. 


Fried  Shad.  —  Scale  the  fish,  cut  off  the  head,  and  then 
cut  down  the  back,  and  take  out  the  entrails ;  keep  the  roes 
to  be  dressed  with  the  fish,  then  cut  it  in  two,  and  cut  each 
side  in  pieces,  about  three  inches  wide  5  flour  them,  and  fry 
in  hot  lard,  in  which  put  salt  to  taste.  When  the  inside 
(which  must  always  be  first  cooked  in  any  fish)  is  done  a  fine 
brown,  turn  the  other. 

The  soft  roe  is  much  liked  by  some ;  fry  it  in  the  same 
manner,  as  also  the  eggs  from  the  female  shad ;  these  last 
must  be  well  done. 


Broiled  Shad.  —  Prepare  them  the  same  as  for  frying, 
or  merely  cut  them  in  two ;  lay  them  on  a  gridiron  (the  in- 
side first  to  the  fire),  then  have  ready  a  hot  plate  and  some 
butter,  with  a  little  salt  and  pepper  worked  in.  When  both 
sides  are  done,  rub  them  well  over  with  this^  and  serve. 


80  EVERY    lady's   BOOK. 

Baked  Shad.  —  Scale  and  clean  the  shad,  split  it  down 
the  back;  make  a  stuffing  of  bread  and  butter,  seasoned 
with  pepper  and  salt,  and  moistened  with  a  little  hot  water 
or  milk ;  fill  the  belly  with  this,  first  rubbing  the  inside 
with  a  mixture  of  pepper  and  salt.  Tie  a  thread  around  the 
fish  to  keep  the  stuffing,  dredge  the  outside  well  with  flour, 
stick  bits  of  butter  over  it ;  sprinkle  lightly  with  pepper  and 
salt,  then  lay  some  muffin  rings  in  a  dripping  or  bake-pan, 
and  lay  the  fish  on  and  bake.  When  done  take  it  up,  add  a 
little  hot  water  to  its  own  drippings ;  shake  a  little  flour  to 
it,  give  it  one  boil,  and  serve  as  sauce  for  the  fish.  Cod 
may  be  done  the  same. 


Fresh  Mackerel. — Mackerel  is  chosen  by  the  same 
rule  as  other  fish  ;  when  fresh,  the  eyes  are  full,  the  gills  red, 
and  the  body  firm ;  if  the  contrary,  they  are  not  fit  to  eat. 


Boiled  Mackerel. — Boil  them  in  salt  and  water,  in 
which  put  a  little  vinegar,  serve  with  drawn  butter  or  pars- 
ley sauce. 


Broiled  Mackerel.  —  Do  them  the  same  as  shad. 


Fried  Mackerel.  — The  same  rules  as  for  shad. 


Baked  Mackerel.  —  Prepare  it  the  same  as  shad. 


To  DRY  Mackerel.  —  They  must  be  very  fresh,  gut 
and  wash  them  clean;  cut  ofi"  their  heads,  split  thera'down 
the  back,  and  lay  them  quite  flat,  and  hang  them  by  their 


EVERY   lady's   BOOK.  81 

tails  in  a  cool  place  to  drain.  Strew  some  salt  in  the  bot- 
tom of  a  pan ;  sprinkle  the  fish  thoroughly  with  salt,  and 
lay  them  two  by  two,  the  insides  together.  Let  them  lie  in 
salt  twelve  or  fourteen  hours,  then  wash  ofi"  the  salt  and 
hang  them  to  drain  for  half  an  hour;  then  pepper  the  in- 
sides a  little,  and  lay  them  on  stones  aslant  towards  the  sun 
to  dry ;  take  care  never  to  put  them  out  when  the  sun  is  not 
on  them,  nor  till  the  stones  are  warm  and  dry ;  they  will  be 
perfectly  cured  in  a  week.  They  may  be  fried  in  hot  fat,  or 
broiled,  and  well  buttered  when  dished. 


Salt  Mackerel.  —  Lay  them  in  soak  in  plenty  of  clear 
water  before  using  them  at  least  twelve  hours,  and  fry,  or 
broil  them,  or  put  them  in  a  frying-pan.  Cover  with  boil- 
ing water,  and  give  them  fifteen  minutes  cooking,  then  pour 
oflf  the  water;  butter  them  well;  pepper  to  taste,  and  serve. 


Black  Fish.  —  These  may  be  boiled  or  fried ;  small  sized 
ones  may  be  broiled  or  fried,  without  gashing  the  sides.  If 
large,  they  must  be  gashed  or  scored  to  the  bone. 


Black  Fish  stewed.  —  Clean  the  fish,  and  after  wiping 
the  inside  dry,  fill  it  with  a  stuffing  or  dressing,  the  same  as 
baked  shad ;  put  it  into  a  deep  bake-pan  with  some  water 
and  a  glass  of  wine ;  add  a  blade  of  mace ;  put  bits  of  but- 
ter over  the  fish,  and  dredge  it  white  with  flour ;  put  the  pan 
into  a  hot  oven;  baste  the  fish  often  for  one  hour;  then  take 
it  up,  strain  the  gravy  over,  and  serve. 


Striped  Bass.  —  These  are  a  dry  fish  fried ;  they  are 
better  boiled ;  serve  with  egg  or  drawn  butter  sauce ;  gar- 
nish with  parsley 


82  EVERY   lady's  BOOK. 

Sea  Bass.  —  The  small  sized  fish  may  be  fried  or  broiled ; 
the  largest  must  be  boiled,  and  served  with  a  sauce. 


Perch.  —  Clean  them  well,  flour  them,  and  fry  or  broil 
them.  The  merit  of  fried  fish  depends  on  their  being  well 
done,  and  of  a  fine  delicate  brown ;  the  fat  in  which  they 
are  fried  should  be  slightly  salted. 


Sturgeon.  —  If  good,  the  flesh  will  be  white,  the  gristle 
and  veins  blue,  the  grain  even,  and  the  skin  tender. 


Baked  Sturgeon.  —  Clean,  and  take  the  skin  from  a 
small  sturgeon,  split  it  along  the  belly  without  separating  it, 
lay  it  on  a  baking  dish ;  season  well  with  salt  and  pepper; 
dredge  it  well  with  flour,  stick  bits  of  butter  over,  and  bake 
with  a  little  water  in  the  pan ;  baste  frequently,  and  serve 
with  its  own  gravy. 

Sturgeon  Steaks.  —  These  may  be  fried  or  boiled. 


Herring.  — These  are  of  three  sorts  —  fresh,  salted  and 
drie(},  or  red  herrings. 

Salted  herring  should  be  soaked  in  water .  before  it  is 
cooked. 

iCed  herrings  are  split  in  two,  the  head  and  tail  cut  ofi*, 
and  the  fish  broiled. 


Fresh  Herrings  Boiled.  —  Scale  and  otherwise  pre- 
pare the  herrings  the  same  as  other  fish.  Dry  them  well, 
rub  them  over  with  a  little  salt  and  vinegar,  skewer  their 


EVERY    lady's    BOOK.  83 

tails  in  their  mouths,  lay  them  on  a  fish  plate,  and  put  them 
into  boiling  water  for  twelve  or  fifteen  minutes.  Serve  with 
butter  sauce ;  garnish  with  parsley. 


Halibut  Boiled. — Take  a  large  piece  of  the  fish, 
Bcrape  the  outside  with  a  knife,  dredge  a  little  flour  over, 
and  boil  it  according  to  its  weight,  fifteen  minutes  to  a  pound. 
Serve  with  egg  sauce  or  drawn  butter. 


Halibut  Steaks.  —  These  may  be  broiled  or  fried  the 
same  as  other  fish ;  first  cut  off  the  thick  skin. 


Chub  Boiled.  —  Put  as  much  vinegar  and  water  into  a 
fish  kettle  as  will  cover  the  fish ;  add  some  salt ;  scale  and 
clean  the  fish,  and  when  the  water  boils,  put  it  in.  When 
boiled  enough,  lay  it  to  drain  for  an  hour,  then  put  it  into  a 
pewter  dish  over  a  chafing  dish  of  coals,  with  melted  butter, 
and  serve  very  hot. 


Broiled  Chub.  —  Scale  a  chub,  take  off  the  tail  and 
fins,  make  two  or  three  cuts  on  each  side,  and  broil  it  over  a 
clear  fire  of  coals ;  butter  it  well,  season  with  pepper  and 
salt. 


CH0Vn)ER.  —  Slice  some  fat  salt  pork  very  thin,  strew  it 
over  with  onions  chopped  small,  and  some  pepper ;  then  cut 
a  haddock,  fresh  cod,  or  any  other  firm  fish  in  thin  steaks, 
and  lay  it  on  the  pork ;  then  put  a  layer  of  soaked  biscuit 
or  crackers,  then  another  layer  of  pork,  onions,  and  fish, 
and  lastly,  a  layer  of  biscuit  until  the  pan  is  full;  season 
with  pepper.     Pour  a  pint  or  more  water  over,  set  the  dish 


84  EVERY    lady's   BOOK. 

in  a  bake-pan,  with  fire  above  and  below.     When  done  turn 
it  out  on  a  dish. 


Clam  Chowder.  —  Make  the  same  as  the  above,  using 
clams  in  the  place  of  fish. 

SHEIili   FISH. 

To  choose  Lobsters.  —  The  heaviest  are  considered 
best ;  they  are  chosen  more  by  weight  than  size ;  if  quite 
fresh,  the  claws  will  have  a  strong  motion  when  you  press 
the  eyes  with  your  finger.  The  male  is  thought  to  have  the 
highest  flavor,  the  flesh  is  firmer,  and  the  shell  is  a  brighter 
red ;  it  may  readily  be  distinguished  from  the  female,  as  the 
tail  is  narrower,  and  the  two  uppermost  fins,  within  the  tail, 
are  stiff  and  hard ;  those  of  the  female  are  soft,  and  the  tail 
broader.  Hen  lobsters  are  prepared  for  sauces  on  account 
of  their  coral.     The  head  and  smallest  claws  are  never  used. 


To  BOIL  Lobsters.  — Put  water  enough  to  cover  the  lob- 
ster in  a  kettle,  with  salt  in  proportion,  a  tablespoonful  to  a 
quart  of  water ;  when  it  boils  hard  put  in  the  lobster,  and 
keep  it  boiling  briskly  for  an  hour  (if  a  large  one),  then  take 
it  from  the  water  with  tongs,  lay  it  to  drain,  wipe  ofi"  all  the 
scum  from  it,  rub  the  shell  with  a  little  butter  or  sweet  oil, 
break  off  the  great  claws,  crack  each  joint,  so  that  they  may 
not  be  shattered  and  yet  come  to  pieces  easily ;  cut  the  tail 
down  the  middle,  and  serve  the  body  whole  with  the  large 
claws  laid  on  each  side  of  it. 

Or,  you  may  take  all  the  meat  from  the  shell,  serve  it  in 
a  dish  plain  or  with  a  salad  dressing. 


EVERY    lady's    BOOK.  85 

Broiled  Lobster.  —  After  boiling  the  lobster,  split  the 
tail  and  body,  crack  the  claws,  and  pepper  and  salt  them, 
take  out  the  body  and  what  is  called  the  lady ;  then  put  the 
meat  again  into  the  shell,  then  put  them  on  a  gridiron  over 
a  clear  fire,  with  the  tails  and  claws,  baste  %ith  butter,  and 
serve  with  buttered  sauce. 


Buttered  Lobster.  —  Boil  them,  and  take  the  meat 
from  the  shell,  mince  it,  or  chop  it  small ;  put  to  it  the  in- 
side of  the  lobster  and  the  spawn  bruised,  add  a  little  vine- 
gar, pepper,  and  salt,  and  some  butter  rolled  in  floury  stir 
this  together,  put  it  in  a  stew-pan,  set  it  on  coals;  when 
thoroughly  heated  through,  serve. 

Or,  neatly  trim  the  shells,  and  fill  them  with  the  prepared 
lobster,  strew  bread  crumbs  and  bits  of  butter  on  the  top, 
and  brown  it  with  a  salamander  or  hot  shovel. 


Lobster  Salad.  —  Lay  some  fine  white-heart  lettuce  in 
a  dish,  and  having  chopped  a  boiled  lobster  small,  lay  it  on 
the  salad,  pour  a  salad  dressing  over,  and  serve. 

Or,  instead  of  lettuce^  take  a  hard  head  of  cabbage,  cut 
it  in  two,  shave  it  as  fine  as  possible,  and  lay  this  in  the  dish 
under  the  prepared  lobster. 

To  choose  Crabs.  — If  fresh,  the  joints  of  the  legs  will 
be  stiff,  and  the  inside  have  an  agreeable  smell.  The  heav- 
iest are  the  best,  the  light  ones  are  watery ;  they  are  stale 
when  the  eyes  look  dull. 


To  boil  Crabs.  —  Have  a  pot  of  boiling  water,  in  which 
is  a  tablespoonful  of  salt  to  each   quart  of  water  throw  tho 


86'  KVERY    lady's    BOOK. 

crabs  in,  and  keep  it  boiling  for  three-quarters  of  an  hour; 
then  take  them  out,  wipe  the  shell  clean,  rub  it  over  with  a 
little  butter,  break  off  the  small  claws,  and  lay  them  in  a 
large  dish  covered  with  a  napkin. 


To  CHOOSE  Scollops.  —  These  are  a  kind  of  shell  fish 
not  much  used,  but  delicious.  When  fresh,  the  shell  closes 
tight,  the  same  as  hard  shell  clams. 


To  boil  Scollops.  —  Throw  them  in  boiling  salt  and 
water,  and  boil  until  the  shell  opens,  then  take  them-  out, 
trim  them  clean,  add  pepper,  salt,  and  butter  rolled  in 
flour,  warm  them  up  in  a  stew-pan,  and  serve  poured  over 
toast. 


To  CHOOSE  Soft  Shell  Clams.  —  These  are  onl}-  good 
in  cold  weather,  and  must  be  fresh.  They  may  be  boiled  in 
the  shell,  and  when  trimmed  clean,  served  with  drawn  but- 
ter, and  pepper  and  salt,  and  some  like  a  little  vinegar. 


To  FRY  Soft  Shell  Clams.  —  When  taken  from  the 
shell,  and  the  black  skin  taken  off,  wash  them  in  their  own 
liquor,  and  lay  them  on  a  thickly  folded  clean  cloth,  to  dry 
out  the  moisture ;  then  have  a  pan  of  hot  lard  and  butter, 
equal  parts,  roll  the  clams  well  in  flour,  and  fill  the  pan,  let 
them  fry  until  one  side  is  a  fine  brown,  and  before  turning 
the  other  side,  dredge  it  well  with  flour;  serve  with  their 
own  gravy.  Grated  horse-radish  moistened  with  vinegar,  to 
eat  with  them,  and  plain  boiled  or  mashed  potatoes.  In  city 
markets  they  will  be  found  ready  opened  and  cleanea. 


EVERY   lady's    BOOK.  87 

Hard  Shell  Clams.  —  Hard  shell  clams  may  be  cooked 
in  a  variety  of  ways  j  there  are  large  and  small  ones. 

To  boil  them,  wash  the  shells  clean,  and  put  them  in  a 
kettle  with  the  edges  downwards ;  after  they  are  all  in,  add 
a  pint  or  more  of  water;  cover  the  pot  close,  and  set  them 
over  a  fire ;  when  done,  the  shells  will  open ;  take  them  out 
of  the  liquor  with  a  fork,  that  they  may  be  clear  of  grit,  add 
butter  and  pepper,  and  if  liked,  a  little  vinegar. 


Stewed  Clams.  —  Take  the  clams  from  the  shells,  put 
them  in  a  stewpan  with  some  of  their  own  liquor,  some  but- 
ter rolled  in  flour,  and  some  pepper,  let  them  stew  slowly 
until  the  clams  are  tender,  then  butter  some  slices  of  toast, 
and  pour  them  over.     Serve  in  a  deep  dish. 


Fried  Hard  Clams.  — Wash  them  in  their  own  liquor, 
roll  them  well  in  flour,  and  fry  them  in  hot  lard  and  butter. 


Clam  Fritters.  —  For  twenty-five  good  sized  clams, 
make  a  thin  batter,  of  some  of  their  own  liquor,  two  eggs 
and  some  flour,  stir  them  in,  and  fry  in  hot  lard  and  butter; 
when  one  side  is  nicely  browned,  turn  the  other;  when  this 
is  done,  serve  with  grated  horse-radish  wet  with  vinegar. 


Pickled  Clams.  —  Boil  them  out  of  the  shell,  and  cover 
with  cold  vinegar,  in  which  is  whole  pepper  and  some  salt; 
they  will  be  fit  for  use  in  twenty-four  hours. 


Clam  Pie.  —  {See  Oyster  Pie,) 


88  EVERY   lady's   BOOK. 

Oysters. — To  choose  oysters,  if  alive  and  healthy,  the 
shell  will  close  tight  upon  the  knife.  They  are  best  from 
September  till  May ;  and  may  be  dressed  in  a  variety  of 
ways.  To  be  eaten  raw,  they  should  be  eaten  as  they  are 
opened,  with  pepper  and  salt,  or  with  pepper  and  vinegar. 


Oyster  Fritters.  —  Strain  some  of  their  own  liquor, 
and  make  a  thin  batter  with  two  eggs,  and  some  salt  and 
flour,  stir  the  oysters  in,  make  some  butter  and  lard  hot,  in 
a  thick-bottomed  frying-pan,  and  pour  in  the  frittters;  let  it 
fry  a  nice  brown  on  one  side,  then  carefully  turn  it  whole, 
and  brown  the  other. 

Or,  put  it  in  the  pan  with  a  large  spoon,  allowing  an  oys- 
ter for  each  spoonful  of  batter;  the  oysters  for  these  last, 
must  be  large,  the  former  may  be  small. 


Fried  Oysters.  —  Have  large  fine  oysters,  dry  them  on 
a  folded  napkin,  dip  each  one  singly  in  flour  or  rolled  crack- 
ers, have  some  butter  and  lard  hot,  in  a  thick-bottomed 
frying-pan ;  lay  the  oysters  in,  turn  each  as  soon  as  it  is 
browned ;  when  both  sides  are  done,  take  them  up,  and  serve. 
Grated  horse-radish  wet  with  vinegar,  or  pickles,  should  be 
served  with  them. 


Oyster  Soup.  —  {See  Soups.) 


Oysters  Roasted.  — Wash  the  shells  clean,  wipe  them 
dry,  and  lay  them  on  a  gridiron,  over  a  bright  fire  of  coals; 
when  the  shells  open  they  are  done;  lay  a  napkin  on  a  dish, 
put  the  oysters  on^  and  serve  with  cold  butter,  and  rolls.       \ 


EVERY   lady's   BOOK.  89 

Oysters  Boiled.  —  Have  them  nicelj  washed,  lay  them 
in  a  pot,  with  the  edges  downwards,  put  a  pint  or  so  of  wa- 
ter in,  cover  close,  put  them  over  the  fire ;  as  soon  as  the 
shells  open,  take  them  up,  strain  the  liquor  over,  add  butter, 
plenty  of  pepper  and  a  little  salt,  garnish  with  parsley. 


Fricasseed  Oysters.  —  Wash  them  in  their  own  liquor, 
strain  some  of  it  to  them,  add  a  good  bit  of  butter,  with  a 
tablespoonful  of  flour  worked  into  it,  pepper  to  taste,  put 
them  in  a  covered  stew-pan,  and  when  nearly  done,  stir  in 
the  beaten  yolk  of  an  egg-,  let  it  simmer  for  a  few  minutes 
and  serve. 


Pickled  Oysters.  —  Wash  the  oysters  in  their  own 
liquor,  then  strain  it,  and  put  it  with  the  oysters,  in  a  stew- 
pan  ;  heat  the  oysters  through  without  boiling  them,  then 
take  them  from  the  liquor,  with  a  skimmer;  take  enough 
vinegar  to  cover  them ;  if  very  strong,  add  some  of  the  oys- 
ter juice  to  it,  with  whole  pepper,  a  blade  or*  two  of  mace, 
give  it  one  boil,  and  when  cold,  pour  it  over  the  oysters; 
cover  them  close ;  they  will  keep  a  week  or  more,  but  are  fit 
for  use,  after  a  few  hours. 


Stewed  Oysters.  —  Open  the  oysters,  and  wash  them 
clear  from  grit  in  their  own  liquor,  then  strain  it,  and  put  it 
to  them,  with  a  blade  or  two  of  mace  and  some  whole  pep- 
per ;  stew  them  gently,  add  a  little  cream  and  some  butter 
rolled  in  flour,  let  them  simmer  for  a  few  minutes  longer, 
with  toast  or  crackers,  and  serve. 


Oyster  Pie.  —  Butter  a  deep  dish,  line  the  sides  and 
bottom  with  a  rich  pufi"  paste ;  dredge  a  little  flour  over ; 


90  EVERY   LADY*S   BOOK. 

pour  in  the  oysters^  washed  in  their  own  liquor,  then  strain 
over  liquor  enough  to  nearly  fill  the  dish,  work  some  butter 
and  flour  together,  and  put  it  in  pieces  the  size  of  a  walnut, 
about  an  inch  apart,  over  the  whole  surface,  and  pepper  and 
a  little  salt,  and  cover  with  a  rich  crust,  cut  a  slit  in  the  top, 
and  ornament  it  with  leaves  cut  of  paste,  or  a  paste  tulip ; 
bake  in  a  hot  oven.  The  paste  must  be  rather  thick,  else 
the  oysters  will  be  cooked  too  much  before  the  crust  is  done. 


Stewed  Oysters  Plain.  —  Have  your  oysters  freshly 
opened,  put  them  with  their  own  liquor  into  a  stew-pan,  give 
them  one  good  scald,  then  add  a  good  bit  of  sweet  butter 
and  some  pepper,  and  serve  with  cold  butter  and  crackers, 
and  dressed  celery. 

Oysters  stewed  with  Milk.  —  For  a  dozen  oysters  in 
their  own  liquor,  put  half  a  pint  of  milk;  set  it  over  the 
fire;  let  it  have  a  quick  boil,  then  add  to  it  a  good  bit  of 
butter  and  pepper  to  taste ;  some  oysters  require  salt ;  pour 
it  over  crackers  in  a  soup-dish. 

Oysters  may  be  stewed  also  in  the  following  manner :  To 
one  dozen  oysters  in  their  own  liquor,  put  a  heaping  tea- 
spoonful  of  flour,  mix  it  well  in,  add  a  small  pinch  of  ground 
mace,  the  same  of  pepper,  and  a  bit  of  butter,  put  it  in  a 
Btewpan  over  the  fire,  stir  it  with  a  silver  spoon  until  it  is 
done;  serve  with  dressed  celery  and  cold  bread  and  butter. 


Best  Pickled  Oysters.  —  Take  fine  large  oysters,  put 
them  over  the  fire  with  their  own  liquor,  add  to  them  a  bit 
of  butter,  and  let  them  simmer  until  they  are  plump  and 
white ;  when  they  are  so,  take  them  up  with  a  skimmer, 


EVERY    lady's    BOOK.  91 

have  a  large  napkin  folded,  lay  the  oysters,  each  spread 
nicely  out,  then  take  of  the  oyster  liquor  and  vinegar  equal 
parts  —  enough  to  cover  the  oysters  —  have  a  large  stone  pot 
or  tureen,  put  in  a  layer  of  oysters,  lay  over  it  some  whole 
pepper,  allspice  and  cloves,  and  some  ground  mace,  then  add 
another  layer  of  oysters,  then  more  spice,  and  then  a  layer 
of  oysters  and  spice,  until  all  are  done ;  then  pour  over  the 
oyster  liquor  and  vinegar,  let  them  stand  one  night,  and  they 
are  done;  the  vinegar  and  liquor  must  be  warm.  Oysters 
prepared  in  this  way  are  delicious. 


Oysters  Scolloped.  — Butter  some  scollop  shells,  strew 
them  over  with  bread  crumbs,  sprinkle  with  pepper,  a  little 
salt  and  some  bits  of  butter,  and  if  liked,  some  finely-chop- 
ped parsley ;  then  put  in  the  oysters,  season  with  the  above- 
named  ingredients,  add  some  of  the  liquor,  with  a  little 
flour  dredged  in,  and  bits  of  butter,  cover  thickly  with  bread 
crumbs,  put  some  melted  butter  over,  and  brown  in  a  hot 
oven  for  half  an  hour ;  then  turn  it  on  a  dish ;  it  must  be 
well  browned. 


Mussels.  —  Wash  the  shells  clean,  and  put  them  in  a 
kettle  with  a  little  water,  set  them  over  the  fire,  until  the 
shells  are  all  open,  then  take  them  out,  take  out  the  beard, 
put  butter,  pepper,  and  a  little  salt  over,  and  serve,  with  vin- 
egar for  those  who  like  it. 


Stewed  Mussels.  —  Having  boiled  them  out,  take  the 
beard  out,  and  put  them  in  a  stew-pan  with  some  of  the 
liquor,  in  which  they  were  boiled,  strained  to  them,  add  a 
little  cream  or  milk,  and  some  butter;  pepper  and  salt  to 


92  EVERY   lady's    BOOK. 

taste,  dredge  flour  over,  and  let  them  simmer  slowly  for  ten 
minutes;  serve  hot,  with  toast. 


BEEF. 

Beef.  —  When  beef  is  good  it  may  be  known  by  its  tex- 
ture and  color.  The  lean  will  have  an  open  grain  of  a  deep 
coral  or  bright  carnation  red,  the  fat  rather  inclining  to 
white  than  yellow,  and  the  suet  firm  and  white.  Very  yel- 
low fat  is  generally  considered  a  sufficient  proof  of  inferior 
beef. 

If  you  wish  to  keep  beef  two  or  three  days  before  dress- 
ing, do  not  salt  it,  but  dry  it  well  with  a  clean  cloth,  sprinkle 
pepper  over  it  first,  then  flour  it  well,  hang  it  where  the  air 
will  come  to  it;  be  sure  always  that  there  is  no  damp  place 
about  it ;  if  there  is,  dry  it  well  with  a  cloth. 

The  best  roasting  pieces  are  the  ribs  and  sirloins.  The 
best  steaks  are  cut  from  these  parts;  the  legs  and  head  make 
good  soup. 


For  roasting  Beef.  —  Have  a  clear  bright  fire  before 
putting  down  the  roast;  if  a  large  one,  ha\e  a  large,  clear, 
and  steady  fire,  with  a  bed  of  coals  at  the  bottom. 

"Wash  the  meat  in  cold  water,  rub  it  all  <wer  with  a  mix- 
ture of  salt  and  pepper;  have  some  water  and  bits  of  suet 
in  the  dripping  pan,  to  baste  with  at  first.  Fasten  a  piece 
of  paper  over  the  fat  to  prevent  its  wasting;  baste  freely. 
When  your  meat  is  half  done,  move  it  a  little  from  the  fire, 
and  stir  up  a  brisk  heat ;  do  not  set  it  too  near  at  first,  for 
fear  the  outside  may  be  burnt  before  the  inside  is  done.  Put 
it  evenly  on  the  spit,  taking  care  not  to  run  it  through  tUa 


EVERY   lady's   BOOK.  93 

best  parts.  Turn  it  often,  and  baste  well,  that  it  may  be 
evenly  cooked  and  seasoned.  The  length  of  time  required 
for  roasting  must  depend  on  the  shape  and  size  of  the  piece, 
and  whether  it  is  liked  rare  or  well  done.  When  done,  and 
juicy,  the  steam  will  draw  towards  the  fire;  then  baste  it 
well.  Dredge  it  freely  with  flour,  baste  again,  give  it  a  turn 
or  two,  and  it  is  done.  Add  to  the  gravy  a  cup  of  hot  wa- 
ter, dredge* in  a  little  flour,  and  let  it  boil  up  once  )  then  skim 
ofi"  nearly  all  the  fat,  and  serve  in  a  gravy  boat. 

If  the  piece  to  be  roasted  is  small,  the  fire  must  be  in  pro- 
portion. 

Pickles,  muacard,  and  grated  horse-radish  are  served  with 
roast  beef. 

To  save  the  dripping  from  roast  beef,  pour  hot  water  to  it, 
let  it  boil  up  once,  then  pour  it  through  a  gravy  sieve  into 
a  dish ;  when  cold,  take  the  cake  of  fat  from  the  top,  scrape 
the  under  side,  and  put  it  away  in  a  cool  place  for  use ;  it  is 
good  for  frying,  or  shortening  paste. 


Baked  Beef. — This  is  by  no  means  the  best  or  most 
profitable  way  of  dressing  meat,  although  it  is  a  very  good 
family  dish.  Wash  the  meat  in  cold  water,  rub  it  over  with 
pepper  and  salt,  put  a  trivet  or  some  muffin  rings  in  a  drip- 
ping-pan, and  lay  the  meat  on;  put  water  in  the  pan  to 
baste  with,  and  dredge  the  meat  with  flour.  The  oven  must 
be  hot  when  it  is  put  in ;  baste  often.  When  done,  take  it 
up,  add  more  water  to  the  gravy  if  necessary,  dredge  in  a 
little  flour,  let  it  boil  up  once,  and  serve  in  a  gravy.  Pota- 
toes neatly  pcred,  and  laid  in  the  dish  under  the  meat,  to  be 
baked  with  it,  and  served  up  on  a  separate  dish,  make  a 
good  family  dinner. 


94  EVERY   lady's   BOOK. 

To  STEW  A  Round  of  Beep.  — Boil  it  till  rather  more 
than  half  done,  then  rub  it  Avell  over  with  salt  and  pepper, 
and  sweet  herbs  chopped  small,  gash  it,  dredge  it  well  with 
flour;  then  put  the  meat  in  a  deep  pan,  put  to  it  a  pint  of 
the  water  in  which  it  was  boiled ;  cover  it  close,  and  let  it 
bake  slowly  for  two  hours,  and  send  it  to  the  table  with  the 
gravy  poured  over. 


Corned  Beep  —  For  one  hundred  loeigJit  of  Beef  .  —  Cut 
it  up,  have  half  a  peck  of  coarse  salt,  a  quarter  of  a  pound 
of  saltpetre,  the  same  weight  of  saleratus,  and  a  quart  of 
molasses,  or  two  pounds  of  coarse  brown  sugar. 

Strew  some  salt  in  the  bottom  of  a  tub,  then  put  in  a 
layer  of  meat;  strew  this  with  salt;  add  another  layer  of 
meat,  and  salt  and  meat  alternately,  until  all  the  meat  is  put 
down.  Let  it  lie  one  night,  then  dissolve  the  saleratus  and 
saltpetre  in  a  little  water,  and  put  it  with  the  molasses  or 
sugar.  Add  water  to  the  salt  and  meat,  nearly  to  cover  it; 
then  take  out  the  meat,  and  boil  the  brine,  skim  it  clear; 
then  add  the  saltpetre,  &c.,  to  it,  and  pour  it  hot  over  the 
meat,  or  (as  some  prefer  it)  let  it  become  cold  before  putting 
it  over  the  meat.  If  the  brine  is  put  on  hot,  it  will  be  fit 
for  use  in  twenty-four  hours ;  if  cold,  it  is  good  in  ten  days. 
Beef  tongues  may  be  done  the  same. 


Beef  salted  for  immediate  use.  —  Take  a  piece 
weighing  five  or  six  pounds  (it  should  not  weigh  more),  rub 
salt  all  over  it;  then  take  a  coarse  clean  cloth,  flour  it  well, 
put  the  meat  in,  and  fold  it  up  close ;  then  put  it  in  a  pot 
of  boiling  water,  and  let  it  boil  gently  as  long  as  any  other 
piece  of  the  same  weight. 


EVERY    lady's   BOOK.  96 

SxMOKED  Beef.  —  After  the  beef  has  been  in  brine  (see 
Corned  Beef)  ten  days,  hang  it  in  a  chimney  where  wood 
or  saw-dust  is  burnt;  it  must  be  a  smothered  fii'e  if  made 
of  wood;  it  must  hang  for  ten  days  or  a  fortnight;  then 
keep  it  hung  in  a  dry  place  for  a  week  or  more.  The  hard 
piece  is  best;  to  be  eaten  chipped  thin,  or  cut  in  thin  chips, 
and  broiled  and  buttered;  any  other  piece  should  first  be 
boiled.  Tongues  are  smoked  in  the  same  way;  hang  them 
by  the  root  end. 


Beef  Bouille.  — •  Take  a  round,  or  part  of  one,  take  out 
the  bone  and  tie  it  together  in  a  neat  form,  with  any  odd 
bits  of  butcher's  meat  you  have,  whether  of  beef,  veal,  or 
mutton ;  or  the  gillets  of  game  or  poultry ;  put  the  pot  over 
a  moderate  fire,  with  water  to  cover  the  meat;  when  it  boils, 
skim  it  clear;  when  it  has  boiled  a  short  time  put  in  some 
salt,  pepper,  sliced  carrots,  and  onions;  let  the  whole  boil 
gently  till  the  beef  is  tender;  then  take  it  up,  strain  the 
gravy,  thicken  it  with  the  yolks  of  two  eggs,  beaten  with  a 
little  vinegar,  and  serve  in  a  boat. 


Hashed  Beef.  —  Take  some  very  rare  or  uncooked  beef, 
chop  it,  the  lean  with  some  fat,  and  moisten  it  with  gravy 
or  water;  if  with  water,  add  butter  rolled  in  flour,  put  it  on 
the  coals  to  simmer  slowly,  dredge  flour  in  by  degrees,  sea- 
son with  pepper  and  salt  to  taste.  Meat  that  has  been 
partly  done  will  of  course  require  less  time  to  do  than  raw 
meat. 

Cold  boiled  potatoes  hashed  wnth  the  meat  make  a 
good  dish ;  stir  it  while  making,  as  it  will  be  spoiled  if  at 
all  burnt. 


96  EVERY   lady's   BOOK. 

Beef  Cakes.  —  Chop  small  some  under-done  beef,  lean, 
with  such  a  proportion  of  fat  as  you  may  like,  season  with 
pepper  and  salt,  and  if  liked,  some  chopped  onions  or  shalot; 
mix  them  well,  flour  your  hand,  and  form  it  in  small  round 
cakes,  about  an  inch  in  thickness,  and  fry  them  a  fine  brown 
in  beef-drippings  or  butter. 


Fried  Steaks.  —  Cut  your  beef  in  steaks,  half  an  inch 
in  thickness;  beat  them,  to  make  them  tender  (with  a  roll- 
ing-pin), take  out  all  the  fat,  rub  the  frying-pan  over  with 
butter,  lay  in  the  steaks,  set  it  over  a  fire  of  coals,  as  the 
gravy  runs  out  pour  it  on  a  dish ;  turn  it  often ;  then  fry 
the  fat  by  itself  and  lay  it  on  the  lean ;  season  the  gravy 
from  the  fat  with  pepper  and  salt,  and  a  small  quantity  of 
hot  water,  let  it  boil  up,  then  pour  it  hot  over  the  meat. 


Pickled  Beef.  —  Take  a  piece  of  beef,  season  with  pep- 
per and  salt;  stick  it  full  of  cloves,  cover  the  meat  with 
vinegar,  and  turn  it  every  day  for  a  fortnight.  As  the  vin- 
egar wastes,  add  more ;  then  put  it  down  in  a  stewpot  with 
vinegar  and  water,  cover  it  close,  and  if  a  large  piece,  stew 
it  six  hours.  Add  more  vinegar  if  necessary,  as  it  stews. 
Serve  with  onions  stewed ;  or  it  may  be  eaten  cold,  sliced 
thin. 


Beef  Skirts.  — This  part  of  the  beef  may  be  broiled,  or 
be  made  in  a  pie,  or  stewed,  with  onions  and  potatoes. 


Beef  stewed.  —  Take  some  beef,  cut  it  quite  small,  put 
it  with  a  little  water  in  a  stewpan  with  some  small  onions 
peeled;  some  potatoes  cut  small,  and  salt  and  pepper  to  taste ; 


EVERY    lady's    BOOK.  97 

dredge  it  well  with  flour;  add  a  few  bits  of  butter  if  the 
meat  is  lean,  and  stew  it  down ;  let  it  brown  without  burn- 
ing, and  it  is  done. 


Beef  Steaks  broiled.  —  Gut  the  steaks  rather  more 
than  half  an  inch  in  thickness,  beat  them  well  with  a  rolling- 
pin,  have  a  clear,  bright  fire  of  coals,  when  the  gridiron  is 
hot,  rub  it  over  with  a  bit  of  suet.  Have  some  butter  with 
pepper  and  salt  on  a  hot  plate ;  before  turning  the  steaks  hold 
them  over  the  dish  to  save  the  gravy  (which  would  other- 
wise fall  in  the  fire  and  spoil  the  meat) ;  when  both  sides  are 
done,  lay  it  on  the  dish,  and  cover  close  j  serve  very  hot. 


Beef  Steaks.  —  Sirloin,  and  what  is  known  as  porter- 
house steaks,  are  the  choicest  cuts.  If  it  is  not  very  tender 
and  young  beef,  it  may  be  improved  by  beating  with  a  roll- 
ing-pin, before  cooking.  The  steaks  should  be  nearly  an 
inch  in  thickness.  Steaks  must  on  no  account  be  washed, 
but  fresh  cut. 


Broiled  Beef  Steaks. — Have  a  bright,  clear  fire  of 
coals,  rub  the  gridiron  over  with  a  bit  of  beef  suet,  lay  on 
the  steak ;  when  it  begins  to  broil  turn  the  upper  side  down, 
and  so  continue  to  turn  it  back  and  forth  every  two  or  three 
minutes  until  it  is  done  to  taste.  Have  a  steak  dish  ready 
with  a  good  bit  of  sweet  butter ;  work  as  much  pepper  and 
salt  with  it  as  you  like  on  your  steak  (taking  care  not  to 
have  too  much  and  so  spoil  it,  as  more  may  be  added  when 
it  coraes  to  table).  If  not  sent  to  table  as  soon  as  ready,  set 
it  where  it  will  be  kept  hot, 
9 


EVERY   LADY  S   BOOK. 


A  wire  gridiron  is  best  for  any  broiling,  being  double,  and 
the  steak  put  between  it  can  be  turned  without  taking  it  out. 


Steaks  fried  to  eat  like  a  broil.  —  Have  a  quick 
fire,  put  a  bit  of  butter  in  a  pan,  and  when  hot,  lay  the  steaks 
evenly  in;  let  it  fry  quick,  turn  it  often  to  keep  the  juice 
in;  work  some  butter,  pepper  and  salt  together  as  for  a 
broiled  steak,  take  your  meat  on  a  dish,  and  with  a  knife 
press  it  on  every  part  of  the  steak.  Set  the  dish  where  it 
will  keep  hot  until  served. 


Beef  Steak  Pie.  —  Take  some  fine  steaks,  beat  them 
well,  season  with  pepper  and  salt  to  taste,  dredge  flour  over, 
roll  them  up,  after  sticking  bits  of  butter  all  over  the  sur- 
face of  each,  put  a  rich  paste  around  the  sides  of  a  deep 
dish,  lay  in  the  rolled  steaks,  nearly  fill  it  with  water,  dredge 
flour  over,  cover  with  a  paste  crust,  cut  a  slit  in  the  top,  or- 
nament it  with  paste  or  a  tulip,  and  bake. 


Beef  Steak  Pudding.  —  Beat  the  steak  well,  make  a 
crust  in  this  way,  take  some  flour,  rub  a  small  bit  of  short- 
ening in,  make  it  to  a  paste  with  buttermilk  or  sour  milk, 
and  a  little  saleratus  dissolved,  add  a  little  salt,  knead  the 
paste  well  with  your  hands,  roll  it  out  about  half  an  inch  in 
thickness,  lay  on  the  steak,  season  with  pepper  and  salt, 
stick  some  bits  of  butter  over,  let  the  paste  be  at  least  an 
inch  larger  every  way  than  the  steak,  then  roll  it  up,  flour 
a  cloth,  and  tie  it  up  tight;  put  it  into  a  pot  of  boiling  wa- 
ter and  let  it  boil  for  two  hours.     Serve  with  butter  sauce. 


Beef  Heart  baked  or  roasted.  —  Cut  a  beef  heart  in 
two,  take  out  the  string  from  the  inside,  wash  it  in  warm 


EVERY   lady's   BOOK:  99 

water,  rub  the  inside  with  pepper  and  salt,  fill  ix  tvith  a  stufliug, 
made  of  bread  and  butter  moistened  with  water,  and  season- 
ed with  pepper  and  salt ;  tie  it  together,  rub  the  outside  with 
pepper  and  salt,  and  dredge  flour  over,  stick  bits  of  butter 
on,  and  roast  or  bake  it.  Serve  hot  with  its  own  gravj  and 
currant  jelly  sauce. 


To  CLEAN  Beef  Tripe. — Einse  it  clean  in  cold  water, 
sprinkle  lime  over,  then  put  it  in  a  tub,  cover  with  warm 
water,  and  let  it  stand  for  two  or  three  hours ;  then  scrape 
it  with  a  knife,  and  if  the  dark  does  not  all  come  off  easily, 
sprinkle  more  lime  on,  and  let  it  lie  for  an  hour  longer,  then 
scrape  it  again  and  rinse  it  in  cold  water  until  it  is  clean, 
and  put  it  in  salt  and  water  for  a  day  and  night,  change  the 
salt  and  water  three  times,  let  it  remain  in  each  time  for  a 
day  and  a  night,  then  take  it  out,  cut  it  in  pieces  about  six 
inches  wide,  and  twice  that  length,  lay  it  in  buttermilk  for  a 
few  hours,  to  whiten  it ;  then  rinse  it  clean  in  cold  water ; 
boil  it  tender.  After  this,  you  may  dress  it  as  you  may 
prefer. 


To  FRY  Tripe.  —  Lay  a  piece  of  tripe  in  salt  and  water 
over  night,  then  dry  it  with  a  clean  cloth,  dredge  it  with 
flour,  have  some  lard  or  other  fat  hot  in  a  pan,  lay  the  tripe 
in,  season  with  pepper,  when  done  on  one  side  and  a  delicate 
brown,  turn  the  other ;  when  both  sides  are  done,  lay  it  on 
a  dish,  add  some  vinegar  to  the  gravy  and  pour  it  over  the 
tripe ',  or  the  vinegar  may  be  omitted,  and  the  gravy  added 
by  those  who  like  it. 

Fricasseed  Tripe.  —  Cut  the  tripe  in  narrow  slips,  put 
some  water  or  milk  to  it,  add  a  good  bit  of  butter  rolled  in 


iOO  EVERY   lady's   BOOK. 

flour,  season  with  pepper  and  a  little  salt,  let  it  simmer  slowly 
for  some  time,  and  serve  hot;  garnish  with  parsley. 


Ox  Head  Cheese.  —  Split  an  ox  head  in  half,  and 
crack  the  side  bones,  and  take  out  the  eyes,  lay  in  wa- 
ter one  night  to  draw  out  the  blood,  then  put  it  in  a  kettle 
with  sufficient  water  to  cover  it,  let  it  boil  gently,  skimming 
if  often,  until  the  meat  leaves  the  bones,  then  take  it  up 
with  a  skimmer,  take  out  every  particle  of  bone,  season  to 
taste  with  pepper  and  salt,  chop  it  fine,  then  tie  it  in  a  cloth, 
and  press  it  by  laying  a  gentle  weight  on  it.  When  cold  it 
is  fit  to  serve ;  cut  in  thin  slices. 


Potted  Head.  —  Thorougly  clean  a  head,  split  it  open, 
take  out  the  eyes,  &c. 

Then  boil  it  gently  in  water  sufficient  to  cover  it,  skim  it 
clear,  when  the  meat  leaves  the  bones  it  is  done  enough, 
then  take  it  up,  take  out  every  particle  of  bone,  strain  the 
liquor  in  which  it  was  boiled,  add  pepper  and  salt  to  taste, 
put  with  the  meat  in  a  stewpan,  and  let  it  do  slowly  until 
nearly  all  the  water  is  done  away ;  then  put  it  in  a  stone 
pot,  press  it  down,  and  set  it  away  to  become  cold;  to  be 
eaten  sliced  for  lunch  or  supper. 


Yeal.  — Veal  should  never  be  kept  long  before  dressing, 
as  it  by  no  means  improves  by  keeping.  The  loin  is  apt  to 
taint  under  the  kidney ;  it  will  be  soft  and  slimy  when  stale. 

In  the  shoulder,  if  the  vein  is  a  clear  red  it  is  good ;  when 
there  are  any  yellow  or  dark  spots  it  is  stale. 

The  breast  and  neck,  when  good,  look  white  and  clear. 
Veal  must  in  all  cases  be  well  cooked. 


EVERY  lady's  BOOK.  101 

Veal  Broth.  — Boil  a  knuckle  of  veal  in  a  gallon  of  wa- 
ter, with  two  ounces  of  rice  or  vermicelli,  and  a  littk  salt ; 
when  thoroughly  boiled,  and  the  water  reduced  to  half,  it  is 
done. 


Boiled  Veal.  —  Veal  should  be  boiled  in  plenty  of  wa- 
ter ;  if  boiled  in  a  cloth  it  will  be  whiter ;  it  should  be  boiled 
by  the  same  rule  as  other  meats ;  that  is,  to  be  put  in  when 
the  water  is  cold,  and  boiled  gently  till  tender,  serve  with  a 
sauce  of  drawn  butter,  parsley  or  oyster  sauce ;  allow  fifteen 
minutes  to  each  pound  of  meat. 


Hashed  Veal.  —  Take  some  cold  boiled  or  roast  veal, 
chop  it,  add  to  it  some  gravy  or  drawn  butter,  and  pepper 
and  salt  to  taste;  let  it  simmer  slowly,  and  pour  it  on  a  dish, 
with  toast  laid  under. 

Or  chop  some  veal  fine  with  cold  boiled  potatoes  moistened 
with  gravy,  or  a  little  water,  add  some  butter  rolled  in  flour, 
and  pepper  and  salt  to  taste ;  set  it  on  the  coals,  keep  stir- 
ring all  the  time,  that  it  may  not  burn  ;  when  thoroughly 
heated  through  it  is  done ;  form  it  in  a  roll  and  serve. 


Veal  Fritters.  —  Cut  cold  veal  in  thin  slices,  dip  them 
in  batter,  and  fry  them,  sprinkle  salt  over  and  serve.  Make 
the  batter  of  eggs,  milk  and  flour. 


Veal  Sausages.  —  Take  equal  quantities  of  lean  veal 
and  fat  pork,  chop  it  very  fine,  season  with  pepper,  salt,  and 
a  little  chopped  sage,  if  liked.  When  wanted  for  use,  flour 
your  hands,  form  it  in  cakes,  and  fry  it ;  serve  with  boiled 
vegetables. 

9* 


102  EVERY  lady's  BOOK. 

Breast  of  Veal.  —  The  breast  of  veal  may  be  stuffed, 
and  roasted  or  baked;  baste  it  well,  and  serve  with  the 
gravy  in  a  boat.     It  is  often  served  as  a  broil. 


Breast  of  Yeal  Stewed.  —  Cut  a  breast  of  veal  in 
pieces,  with  a  bone  in  each,  put  it  in  a  stew-pan  with  some 
thin  slices  of  corned  pork,  and  a  little  water  (not  enough  to 
cover  it;  let  it  simmer  until  the  meat  is  tender;  it  must 
be  kept  covered  close;  then  add  a  quarter  of  a  pound 
of  butter,  with  two  tablespoonfuls  of  flour  worked  in  it,  and 
some  chopped  parsley.  Let  it  simmer  for  ten  minutes ;  lay 
some  thin  slices  of  toasted  bread  on  a  dish,  lay  the  meat  on, 
pour  the  gravy  over,  and  serve 

A  fillet  of  veal  may  be  stuffed,  and  roasted,  or  stewed. 

A  loin  of  veal  should  be  roasted;  a  shoulder  may  be 
roasted  with  the  bone  in ;  or  bone  it,  fill  the  place  with  a 
stuffing  of  bread,  seasoned  with  butter,  pepper  and  salt ;  rub 
salt  and  pepper  all  over  before  stuffing,  skewer  it  to  a  good 
shape ;  dredge  the  outside  well  with  flour,  stick  bits  of  but- 
ter over,  and  roast  or  bake  it.  Have  some  water  in  the  pan 
to  baste  with  when  it  is  done,  and  take  the  meat  up ;  dredge 
a  little  flour  to  the  gravy,  and  if  necessary,  add  more  water ; 
let  it  boil  up  once,  strain  it,  and  serve  in  a  boat. 


Neck  of  Yeal.  —  This  may  be  boiled,  and  served  with 
drawn  butter,  or  stewed.     See  Breast  of  Yeal  stewed. 


Yeal  Sweetbreads.  —  These  are  best  roasted  with  the 
meat,  or  they  may  be  fried  in  butter,  or  stewed  in  a  drawn 
butter  sauce. 


EVERY    lady's    BOOK.  103 

Calf's  Head.  —  Clean  it  very  nicely,  soak  it  in  salt  and 
water,  that  it  may  look  very  white ;  take  out  the  tongue  to 
salt.  Boil  the  head  until  very  tender,  then  strew  it  over 
with  bread  crumbs ;  baste  with  water  and  butter,  and  roast 
it  brown.  After  washing  the  brains  in  salt  and  water,  boil 
them  till  tender;  add  to  them  butter,  pepper  and  salt,  and 
serve  in  a  little  dish. 

Or  boil  the  head  until  the  meat  leaves  the  bones  (boil  the 
brains  and  tongue  with  the  head)  ;  then  take  it  up.  Take 
out  all  the  bones ;  sprinkle  pepper  and  salt  to  taste ;  chop  it 
small ;  then  lay  a  coarse  cloth  in  a  colander ;  lay  the  minced 
meat  in  cover  with  the  cloth,  lay  a  weight  on  it,  to  press. 


MEAT    PIES. 


Veal  Pie.  —  Line  a  deep  tin  pan  with  a  good  crust ;  par- 
boil the  meat,  and  put  it  in,  season  high ;  nearly  fill  the  pan 
with  water,  in  which  the  meat  was  parboiled.  Sprinkle 
flour  over,  add  a  piece  of  butter,  and  cover  with  a  tolerably 
thick  crust. 

Chicken,  clam,  or  oyster,  may  be  made  in  the  same  man- 
ner. Oysters  must  not  be  cooked  before  putting  into  the  pie. 


Veal  Pot  Pie.  —  Cut  veal  in  small  pieces,  parboil  it 
with  some  pieces  of  salt  pork ;  make  a  good  crust,  roll  it  tol- 
erably thin,  and  line  the  sides  (not  the  bottom)  of  an  iron 
pot,  cut  and  pare  as  many  potatoes  as  you  wish,  halve  them, 
put  them  in  the  pot  with  water,  season  well  with  pepper  and 
salt,  shake  some  flour  over,  and  a  bit  of  butter,  and  finish  by 


104  EVERY   lady's   BOOK. 

covering  it  with  a  crust.  Dish  it  with  the  crust,  and  two- 
thirds  of  the  gravy  on  one  dish,  and  the  ^eat,  potatoes,  and 
remainder  of  gravy  on  another. 


Pork  Pie.  —  Chop  some  cold  roast  fresh  pork,  season  it 
well  with  pepper,  salt,  and  sweet  herbs ;  line  a  deep  dish 
with  a  short  crust,  put  in  the  meat,  nearly  fill  it  with  water, 
shake  a  little  flour  over,  cover  with  a  good  crust,  and  bake. 


Potato  Pie.  —  Skin  some  cold  boiled  potatoes,  cut  them 
in  slices  with  cold  meat  of  any  kind ;  let  the  meat  be  cut 
small,  lay  some  of  it  on  the  bottom  of  a  dish,  then  add  a 
layer  of  potatoes;  then  meat  and  potatoes  alternately  until 
the  dish  is  full ;  then  add  a  little  gravy,  or  water  and  a  piece 
of  butter,  and  cover  with  a  short  crust. 


PORK,   HAM,    <&e. 


To  choose  Pork. — If  the  pork  is  fresh,  the  flesh  ap- 
pears cool  and  smooth.  If  the  rind  is  tough,  thick,  and 
cannot  be  easily  impressed  by  the  finger,  it  is  old. 

Pork  fed  at  still-houses  is  not  fit  for  curing  in  any  way. 
Corn-fed  pork  is  good,  as  is  also  dairy-fed. 

In  cutting  up  large  hogs,  the  chine  or  back-bone  should  be 
cut  down  on  each  side  the  whole  length,  and  is  either  boiled 
or  roasted ;  the  chine  is  considered  the  prime  part. 

The  sides  of  the  hog  are  made  into  bacon,  and  the  inside 
is  cut  with  very  little  meat  to  the  bone ;  there  is  a  large 
spare-rib  on  each  side,  which  is  generally  divided  in  two,  a 
sweet-bone,  and  a  blade-bone. 


EVERY   lady's   BOOK.  105 

The  bacon  is  the  whole  outside,  and  contains  a  fore  leg 
and  a  ham ;  the  latter  is  the  hind  leg ;  but  if  left  with  the 
bacon  is  called  a  gammon. 

There  are  also  the  griskins.  Hog's  lard  is  the  inner  fat 
of  the  bacon  hog. 

Pickled  pork  is  made  of  the  flesh  of  the  hog,  as  well  as 
bacon. 

Porkers  are  not  as  old  as  hogs ;  their  flesh  is  whiter,  and 
less  rich,  but  not  equally  tender. 

A  porker  is  usually  divided  into  four  quarters ;  the  fore 
quarter  consists  of  the  spring,  or  fore-leg ;  the  fore  loin  or 
neck  'j  the  spare-rib,  and  griskin. 

The  hind  quarter  consists  of  the  leg  and  loin. 

A  variety  of  nice  dishes  may  be  made  of  the  feet  of  pork  ; 
they  should  be  cut  off  before  the  legs  are  cured.  The  same 
may  be  said  of  the  ears. 

The  bacon  hog  is  sometimes  scalded,  to  take  off  the  hair, 
and  is  sometimes  singed ;  the  porker  is  always  scalded. 


Pig's  Head  Cheese.  —  Having  thoroughly  cleaned  a 
hog  or  pig's  head,  split  it  in  two,  take  out  the  eyes  and  the 
brain^  clean  the  ears,  throw  scalding  water  over  the  head 
and  ears,  then  scrape  them  well ;  when  very  clean,  put  it  in 
a  kettle  with  water  to  cover  it,  and  set  it  over  a  rather  quick 
fire;  skim  it  as  any  scum  rises;  when  boiled  so  that  the 
flesh  leaves  the  bones,  take  it  from  the  water  with  a  skim- 
mer into  a  large  wooden  bowl  or  tray;  then  take  out  every 
particle  of  bone,  chop  the  meat  fine,  season  to  taste  with 
salt  and  pepper  (if  liked  a  little  pounded  sage  may  be 
added),  spread  a  cloth  over  a  colander,  and  put  the  meat  in, 
then  fold  the  cloth  closely  over  it,  lay  a  weight  on  that  may 


106  EVERY  lady's   BOOK. 

press  equally  the  whole  surface ;  and  if  preferred  lean,  let 
the  weight  be  heavy ;  if  fat,  a  lighter  one. 

When  cold,  take  off  the  weight,  take  it  from  the  colander, 
and  keep  it  folded  in  the  cloth. 

Scrape  whatever  fat  may  be  found  on  the  outside  of  the 
cloth  and  colander,  and  after  the  water  is  cold  in  which  it 
was  boiled,  take  the  fat  from  that  also ;  put  it  in  some  clean 
water,  give  it  one  broil,  then  strain  it  through  a  cloth,  and 
set  it  to  become  cold ;  when  it  is  so,  take  off  the  cake  of 
fat ;  it  is  fit  for  any  use. 


To  DRESS  FRESH  PoRK.  —  Pork  should  always  be  well 
done,  as  it  is  both  unwholesome  and  unpalatable  otherwise. 


To  ROAST  A  Loin.  —  Take  a  sharp  pen-knife  and  cut  the 
skin  across,  then  go  over  it  in  the  opposite  direction  so  as 
to  form  small  squares  or  diamonds,  to  make  the  crackling 
eat  better. 

All  pork  to  roast  or  bake  that  has  the  rind  on,  should  be 
done  in  this  way. 


To  ROAST  A  Leg  of  Pork.  —  Score  it  as  above  directed, 
rub  it  all  over  with  pepper  and  salt,  and  pounded  sage  if 
liked ;  stick  bits  of  butter  over  the  whole  surface,  roast  it 
crisp,  have  some  water  in  the  dripping-pan  under  the  meat, 
with  a  little  salt  in  it  to  baste  with,  and  continue  to  baste 
with  it  and  the  gravy,  as  it  runs  into  the  pan  from  the  meat ; 
when  the  steam  from  the  meat  draws  towards  the  fire,  it  is 
done ;  then  dredge  a  little  flour  to  the  gravy,  and  let  it  boil 
up  once ;  and  serve  in  a  gravy  boat.  This  is  called  mock 
goose. 


EVERY  lady's  BOOK.  107 

The  Spring  or  Hand  of  Pork.  —  This  piece,  if  young 
and  roasted  as  pig,  eats  well ;  or  take  the  spring,  cut  off  the 
shank  or  knuckle;  rub  it  over  with  pepper  and  salt,  and 
chopped  sage,  if  liked ;  roast  it  for  two  hours.  Or  it  may 
be  boiled. 


To  ROAST  A  Pig.  —  Fill  the  pig  with  a  stuffing,  made  of 
bread  and  butter  moistened  with  milk  and  water,  and  season- 
ed with  pepper,  salt,  and  herbs  if  liked,  and  sew  it  up,  or  tie 
a  string  around  it ;  then  put  it  to  the  fire,  dredge  it  well  with 
a  little  flour,  baste  it  well  with  a  little  butter  and  hot  water, 
until  the  eyes  drop  out ;  the  fire  must  be  hotter  at  each  end 
than  in  the  middle ;  save  all  the  gravy  that  runs  from  it. 
When  the  pig  is  done  enough,  stir  up  the  fire ;  take  a  coarse 
cloth,  with  about  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  butter  in  it,  and 
rub  the  pig  all  over  until  the  crackling  is  crisp ;  then  take 
it  up. 

It  may  be  served  whole  if  small,  or  lay  it  in  a  dish,  cut 
off  the  head,  then  split  the  body  in  two  before  drawing  out 
the  spit ;  cut  off  the  ears  from  the  head,  and  lay  them  at 
each  end,  lay  the  two  halves  of  the  body  close  together  in 
the  middle  of  the  dish,  split  the  head  and  lay  it  at  each  side 
with  the  ears. 

Take  the  gravy  which  has  run  from  the  meat,  chop  the 
liver,  brains,  and  heart  small,  and  put  them  to  it  (boil  them 
before  chopping  till  tender)  and  put  it  in  a  stewpan,  with 
some  bits  of  butter,  dredge  in  flour,  and  give  it  one  boil, 
and  serve  in  a  gravy  boat. 


To  BAKE  A  Pig.  —  Prepare  a  pig  as  for  roasting,  lay  it 
on  a  trivet,  or  on  muffin  rings  in  a  pan  }  stick  bits  of  butter 


108  EVERY   lady's   BOOK. 

over  and  dredge  it  well  with  flour,  put  some  water  in  the 
pan,  that  the  gravy  may  not  be  burnt;  when  it  is  done 
enough,  which  it  will  be  in  from  two  to  three  hours,  accord- 
ing to  the  size  of  the  pig,  rub  it  over  with  a  buttered  cloth, 
then  put  it  in  the  oven  again  to  dry ;  then  take  it  on  a  dish 
and  cut  it  up,  or  serve  whole ;  add  more  water  to  the  gravy 
in  the  pan,  and  having  boiled  and  chopped  the  heart,  liver, 
&c.,  add  them  with  more  seasoning  if  necessary ;  dredge  in 
flour,  give  it  one  boil,  and  serve  in  a  gravy  boat. 


Sauces  to  serve  with  roast  Pig  or  Pork.  —  Mashed 
potatoes,  onion  sauce,  bread  sauce,  turnips  mashed,  salad, 
and  apple  sauce,  cranberry  sauce,  and  currant  jelly. 

Pickled  cucumbers,  pickled  beets,  grated  horse-radish,  and 
pickled  nasturtions,  &c. 


To  make  Pig  taste  as  Lamb.  — Take  the  hind  quarter 
of  a  large  roasting  pig,  take  ofi"  the  skin,  rub  it  well  with 
pepper  and  salt,  and  pounded  herbs,  and  roast  it ;  serve  with 
a  salad. 


Pork  Tender  Loin.  —  This  part  is  delicate  eating,  ei- 
ther broiled  or  fried.  It  may  generally  be  had  at  packing- 
houses, or  where  pork  is  cut  up  for  salting.  Steaks  cut  from 
this  part  are  good,  but  not  equal  to  the  tender  loin,  which  is 
out  with  the  grain  ;  steaks  are  cut  across  it. 


To  stew  fresh  Pork.  —  Chop  the  spare-rib,  or  any 
other  part  in  pieces,  put  it  in  a  stewpan,  with  some  water; 
season  with  pepper  and  salt ;  let  it  simmer  till  very  tender, 
skim  it  clear,  dredge  flour  in,  add  bits  of  butter  (if  the  meat 


EVERY    lady's    BOOK.  109 

is  rather  lean  there  should  not  be  too  much  water);  lay 
slices  of  toast  in  a  deep  dish,  and  pour  the  stew  over. 

Potatoes  may  be  stewed  with  it,  or  boiled  separately,  and 
served  with  it. 


Soused  Pig's  Feet.  —  Having  thoroughly  cleaned  and 
scraped  them,  put  them  in  a  pot  of  water,  and  boil  until  the 
bones  or  joints  are  loose ;  then  take  them  from  the  hot  wa- 
ter, into  cold  vinegar,  enough  to  cover  them ;  add  whole  pep- 
per; keep  them  covered  with  vinegar. 

They  are  eaten  plainly  soused,  or  they  may  be  split  in 
two,  and  broiled ;  then  rub  butter  over,  and  pepper  them. 


Pig's  Feet  Pie.  —  Having  prepared  and  boiled  them  as 
for  sousing,  make  a  good  paste  crust,  line  a  deep  dish,  split 
each  foot,  and  put  a  layer  on  the  crust ;  lay  bits  of  butter 
over,  dredge  on  some  flour,  then  another  layer  of  the  split 
feet,  then  bits  of  butter,  and  flour  dredged  over,  and  pepper 
sprinkled  over;  nearly  All  it  with  water,  put  a  paste  crust 
over;  cut  a  slit  in  the  top,  ornament  it  with  paste  leaves,  or 
a  flower,  and  bake  in  a  quick  oven 


Hog's  Head  Pickled.  —  Put  the  head  in  some  beef 
pickle  for  three  or  four  days,  then  take  it  out,  wash  and 
scrape  it  clean,  and  boil  it  until  the  bones  come  out;  then 
take  it  up,  take  out  every  particle  of  bone,  chop  it,  season 
high  with  pepper  and  salt,  and  herbs ;  lay  a  cloth  in  a  ba- 
sin, and  put  in  the  chopped  head,  then  fold  the  cloth  closely 
about  it,  and  lay  a  weight  on  to  press  it.  When  cold,  put 
a  cold  spiced  vinegar  over  it ;  do  not  remove  the  cloth  ;  serve 
slices  of  it  garnished  with  parsley ;  serve  with  mustard  and 
grated  horse-radish,  wet  with  vinegar. 
10 


110  EVERY  lady's   BOOK. 


IiAMBc 


The  vein  in  the  neck  of  a  fore  quarter  of  lamb  should  be 
a  fine  blue,  it  is  then  fresh ;  if  it  is  a  green,  or  yellow  east, 
it  is  stale.  If,  in  hind  quarter,  there  is  a  faint  disagreeable 
smell,  or  if  the  knuckle  is  limber,  it  is  not  good. 

In  the  head,  if  the  eyes  are  full  and  bright,  it  is  fresh ;  if 
the  eyes  are  sunken,  it  is  stale. 

A  fore  quarter  includes  the  shoulder,  neck,  and  breast. 

The  hind  quarter  is  the  leg  and  loin. 

The  pluck,  generally,  is  sold  with  the  head,  liver,  heart, 
lights,  nut,  and  swell 

The  fry  contains  the  sweetbreads,  skirts,  lamb-stones,  and 
some  of  the  liver. 


To  PREPARE  A  Quarter  of  Lamb  for  roasting.  — 

Wash  it  in  cold  water,  rub  it  all  over  with  pepper  and  salt, 
stuflf  the  breast  with  a  stuffing  of  slices  of  bread  buttered 
and  peppered,  and  moistened  with  water;  skewer  it  in; 
strew  bread  crumbs  over  the  outside,  and  stick  bits  of  butter 
over  the  whole  surface,  and  roast  or  bake  it.  Have  enough 
water  in  the  dripping-pan  to  baste  with,  and  for  gravy. 

The  neck  and  the  leg  make  good  soup,  or  a  stew.     (See 
Veal  Stewed.) 


Laihb  Hashed.  —  (See  Veal  Hashed.) 


Broiled  Breast  of  Yeal.  —  Have  a  clear,  bright  fire 
of  coals,  when  the  gridiron  is  hot  rub  it  over  with  suet,  lay 
on  the  meat,  the  inside  down ;  let  it  be  well  done,  then  turn 


EVERY   lady's   BOOK.  Ill 

the  other  side  ;  have  a  hot  dish,  with  plenty  of  butter,  sprin- 
kled with  pepper  and  salt ;  lay  the  meat  on,  turning  it  from 
side  to  side,  that  it  may  be  well  seasoned. 


Lamb  stewed  with  Peas.  —  Cut  the  neck  or  breast  in 
pieces,  put  it  in  a  stewpan  with  some  salt  pork,  sliced  thin, 
put  enough  water  to  cover  it ;  cover  it  close,  and  let  it  stew 
until  the  meat  is  tender,  then  skim  it  free  from  scum,  put 
to  it  a  quart  of  green  peas  shelled,  add  more  hot  water,  if 
necessary ;  cover  it  till  the  peas  are  done  tender,  then  add  a 
bit  of  butter  rolled  in  flour,  and  pepper  to  taste ;  let  it  sim- 
mer for  a  few  minutes,  and  serve. 


Lamb  Pot  Pie.  —  Take  the  neck  and  breast  of  lamb,  cut 
it  small,  cut  half  a  pound  of  sweet  salt  pork  in  thick  slices, 
and  parboil  it  with  the  lamb.  When  half  done,  take  it  out, 
make  a  pot-pie  crust  (^See  Pastry) ,  strain  the  water  in  which 
the  meat  was  parboiled,  roll  the  paste  about  half  an  inch 
thick )  line  the  sides  only  of  a  large  stewpan  or  a  dinner 
pot,  then  lay  in  some  of  the  meat ;  season  with  pepper  and 
salt,  dredge  a  little  flour  over,  and  some  of  the  crust  cut  in 
slips,  the  length  and  size  of  your  finger  ]  then  put  in  more 
of  the  meat,  add  the  seasoning  as  before,  then  put  in  the 
strained  liquor ;  if  not  enough  to  cover  the  meat,  add  more 
water ;  work  some  flour  in  a  tablespoonful  of  butter,  and  lay 
it  on  the  meat;  then  cover  with  a  top  crust,  cut  a  slit  in  the 
top,  cover  the  pot  with  a  close  cover,  and  keep  a  gentle  but 
regular  heat  under.  When  the  top  crust  is  cooked,  the 
whole  is  done. 

Take  the  crust  on  one  dish,  with  some  of  the  gravy,  and 
the  meat  on  another,  and  serve. 


112  EVERY  lady's  BOOK. 

Haslet  Hashed. — Boil  the  haslet  (liver,  lights,  &c.); 
when  done,  chop  it  fine,  put  it  in  a  stewpan,  with  pepper  and 
salt  to  taste,  and  a  dredging  of  flour  over,  and  just  enough 
water  to  keep  it  from  burning;  put  it  over  a  fire,  keep  stir- 
ring with  a  spopn ;  when  thoroughly  cooked,  serve. 


MUTTON. 

OBSERVATIONS    ON    MUTTON. 

The  pipe  that  runs  along  the  bone  on  the  inside  of  a  chine 
or  saddle  of  mutton,  should  be  taken  out,  and  if  it  is  to  be 
kept  any  length  of  time,  the  part  close  around  the  tail  must 
be  rubbed  with  salt,  after  cutting  out  the  kernel.  The  ker- 
nel should  also  be  taken  out  of  the  thick  part  of  the  leg,  as 
that  part  is  most  likely  to  become  tainted. 

The  chine  and  rib-bones  should  be  wiped  every  day,  and 
the  bloody  part  of  the  neck  cut  off,  otherwise  it  will  not  keep. 

In  the  breast,  the  brisket  changes  first ;  therefore  it  is  best 
to  rub  it  with  a  little  salt. 

Mutton  for  roasting,  should  hang  in  a  cool,  dry  place,  as 
long  as  it  will  keep  without  tainting.  For  broiling  or  fry- 
ing, it  is  also  best  to  hang.  For  boiling,  if  kept  too  long, 
it  will  not  be  a  good  color. 

When  roasted,  a  paper  should  be  skewered  over  the  fat, 
until  it  is  nearly  done,  when  it  must  be  taken  off,  and  the 
meat  basted  with  butter,  and  dredged  well  with  flour. 

To  choose  mutton,  see  that  the  lean  is  a  bright  color,  and 
close,  fine  grain,  and  tender  to  the  touch,  and  the  fat  white 
and  firm. 


EVERY    lady's   book.  113 

Mutton  Steaks  Stewed.  —  Cut  the  mutton  in  thin 
steaks,  and  put  it  in  a  saucepan,  with  some  \Yhole  pepper,  a 
cup  of  rice,  and  two  onions,  and  water  to  cover  the  whole ; 
stew  it  slowly,  skimming  it  often.  When  the  meat  is  ten- 
der, take  out  the  onions,  lay  the  rice  in  a  dish,  and  the  meat 
on  it. 


Breast  of  Mutton  Broiled.  —  Boil  the  mutton  till 
nearly  tender,  then  broil  it  over  a  bright  fire  of  coals,  have 
a  hot  dish,  with  plenty  of  butter,  pepper  and  salt  to  taste; 
serve  hot. 

Steaks  or  chops  may  be  broiled  in  the  same  way,  without 
parboiling. 


Mutton  Cutlets  Breaded.  —  Season  them  well  with 
pepper  and  salt,  and  lay  them  into  melted  butter,  turn  them 
often,  that  they  may  imbibe  sufficient  of  the  butter ;  then 
rub  them  well  over  with  bread  crumbs,  and  broil  them  over 
a  clear  fire ;  take  care  that  the  bread  does  not  burn. 


Mutton  Collops.  —  Cut  some  thin  collops  from  a  leg 
of  mutton,  take  out  all  the  sinews,  and  rub  them  over  with 
a  mixture  of  pepper,  salt,  and  a  little  flour,  or  bread  crumbs ; 
melt  some  butter  and  lard  in  a  frying-pan,  and  when  it  is 
quite  hot,  put  in  the  collops  or  steaks  ;  fry  both  sides  a  nice 
brown,  then  lay  them  in  your  dish,  and  serve  with  or  with- 
out the  gravy. 

Or  you  may  finish  with  a  sauce  made  thus :  Beat  an  egg 
with  two  spoonfuls  of  water,  add  it  to  the  gravy  in  which 
the  meat  was  fried,  keep  it  stirring  until  the  egg  is  cooked, 
then  pour  it  over  the  meat. 

Fry  mutton  chops  in  the  same  manner. 
10* 


114  EVERY   lady's   BOOK. 

Leg  of  Mutt  on.  —  If  a  leg  of  mutton  is  roasted,  serve 
with  currant  jelly  or  onion  sauce,  or  both. 

If  it  is  boiled,  serve  caper  or  nasturtion  sauce,  or  plain 
drawn  butter  and  vegetables. 


Leg  of  Mutton  Stuffed.  —  Make  a  stuffing  of  beef 
suet,  chopped  fine,  or  butter  and  bread  crumbs,  seasoned  to 
taste  with  pepper,  salt  and  sweet  herbs  (if  liked) ;  mix  all 
together  with  the  yolk  of  an  egg,  or  some  warm  water ;  put 
it  under  the  skin  of  the  thickest  part  of  the  leg,  under  the 
flap,  and  at  the  knuckle ;  have  some  salt  and  water  to  baste 
with  first,  afterwards  baste  with  the  gravy,  as  it  runs  out. 
When  nearly  done,  baste  with  butter  and  dredge  with  flour ; 
serve  with  some  of  the  gravy  in  the  dish. 

It  may  be  boiled  after  stuffing  it ;  serve  with  drawn  but- 
ter, oyster,  or  nasturtion  sauce. 


Loin  of  Mutton.  —  Roast  a  loin ;  some  prefer  to  have 
it  cut  lengthwise,  like  a  saddle. 

The  loin  makes  good  steaks,  pies,  or  broth ;  take  care  to 
cut  ofi"  enough  of  the  fat. 


Neck  of  Mutton.  —  This  piece  is  particuxdrly  useful,  as 
so  many  dishes  may  be  made  of  it.  The  bone  should  be  cut 
short.  The  best  end  may  be  boiled,  and  served  with  boiled 
turnips,  and  a  sauce ;  garnish  with  parsley. 

Or  it  may  be  roasted,  or  dressed  in  steaks,  made  in  pies, 
or  stewed.  To  make  the  fat  look  very  nice,  take  off  the  skin 
after  it  is  boiled. 


Mutton  Pastry  to  eat  like  Venison.  —  Take  a  fat 
loin  of  mutton,  let  it  hang  several  days,  then  bone  it,  beat 


EVERY  lady's  BOOK.  115 

it  well  with  a  rolling-pin.  To  ten  pounds  of  meat,  take  a 
quarter  of  a  pound  of  sugar,  rub  it  well  with  this,  then  pour 
over  it  a  glass  of  Port  wine,  and  a  glass  of  vinegar;  let  it  lie 
in  this  for  five  days,  then  wsfsh  it,  and  wipe  it  dry,  and  sea- 
son it  highly  with  pepper  and  salt ;  lay  it  in  a  dish,  and  to 
ten  pounds  of  meat  take  one  pound  of  butter,  spreading  it 
all  over  the  meat;  put  crust  around  the  edge  of  the  dish, 
and  cover  with  a  thick  crust.  If  thin,  it  will  be  overdone 
before  the  meat  is  cooked ;  bake  in  a  slow  oven. 

Put  the  bones  in  a  pan,  in  the  oven,  with  sufficient  water, 
and  a  glass  of  Port  wine,  to  cover  them  ;  add  a  little  pepper 
and  salt ;  this  will  make  a  rich  gravy,  which  must  be  added 
to  the  pastry,  when  done. 

Sugar  gives  a  greater  shortness  to  the  meat,  and  a  better 
flavor  than  salt,  too  great  a  quantity  of  which  hardens  it; 
sugar  will  be  found  a  great  preservative. 


Mutton  Pie.  —  Take  off  the  meat  from  a  loin  of  mutton, 
cut  it  in  chops,  and  season  them  with  pepper  and  salt,  put  a 
layer  of  chops  in  the  bottom  of  a  deep  dish  ;  upon  these  lay 
some  peeled  potatoes,  cut  in  slices  about  an  inch  in  thick- 
ness ;  then  (if  liked),  some  thin  slices  of  onion ;  put  more 
chops  over,  fill  half  full  of  water,  add  butter,  with  plenty  of 
flour  rolled  in  (a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  butter  to  a  common 
sized  pie) ;  cover  with  a  puff  taste  or  raised  crust,  and  bake 
two  hours  in  a  hot  oven. 


Shoulder  of  Mutton. — Roast  it,  serve  with  onion 
sauce,  turnips  mashed,  and  mashed  potatoes.  The  blade- 
bone  may  be  broiled. 


116  EVERY   lady's   BOOK. 

Shoulder  of  Mutton  with  Oysters.  —  Let  it  hang 
till  tender,  then  rub  it  over  with  salt,  bone  it,  and  sprinkle 
it  well  with  pepper;  lay  some  oysters  over,  tie  it  in  a  cloth, 
and  boil  it  in  just  enough  water  to  cover  it  till  tender;  have 
ready  an  oyster  sauce,  and  when  the  meat  is  dished,  pour  it 
over,  and  serve. 


Mutton  Slices  in  Cream.  —  Cut  from  roasted  or  broiled 
mutton,  and  put  them  in  a  stewpan  with  a  good  drawn  but- 
ter of  cream  sauce;  add  a  little  salt  and  pepper,  let  them 
simmer  till  thoroughly  heated ;  lay  toast  in  a  dish,  lay  the 
slices  on,  and  pour  over  the  sauce ;  serve  hot. 

Lamb  may  be  done  in  the  same  way. 


Mutton  Hams.  —  These  are  prepared  in  the  same  man- 
ner as  beef  hams.  —  (See  Smoked  Beef.^ 


Broiled  Mutton  Steaks.  —  Cut  some  steaks  about 
half  an  inch  thick,  take  off  some  of  the  fat,  and  all  of  the 
skin,  beat  them  well  with  a  rolling-pin,  to  make  them  ten- 
der, have  a  bright  fire  of  coals ;  as  soon  as  the  gridiron  is 
hot,  rub  it  over  with  bits  of  butter,  place  it  over  the  fire, 
and  turn  the  steaks  frequently ;  when  they  are  done,  sprinkle 
with  pepper  and  a  little  salt;  rub  them  over  with  butter,  and 
serve  with  horse-radish  or  pickles. 


VENISON. 


To  choose  Venison.  —  The  choice  of  venison  should  be 
regulated  by  the  fat,  which,  when  the  venison  is  young, 
should  be  thick,  clear,  and  close. 


EVERY   lady's    BOOK.  117 

As  it  always  begins  jSrst  to  taint  towards  the  haunches, 
run  a  knife  in  that  part;  if  tainted,  you  will  perceive  a  rank 
smell,  and  it  will  have  a  dark  greenish  appearance. 

If  you  wish,  you  may  keep  it  a  long  time  with  careful 
management  and  watching,  by  the  following  process  :  Wash 
it  well  in  milk  and  water,  and  dry  it  perfectly  with  a  cloth, 
till  there  is  not  the  least  damp  remaining,  then  dust  ground 
pepper  over  every  part ;  this  is  a  good  preservative  against 
the  fly. 

When  to  be  dressed,  wash  it  with  a  little  lukewarm  water, 
and  wipe  it  dry. 


Breast  of  Venison.  —  Either  roast  or  fry  it ;  put  some 
gravy  into  a  stewpan  with  some  red-wine,  currant  jelly  and 
lemon  juice,  dredge  in  some  flour;  boil  these  together,  then 
put  in  the  venison ;  when  thoroughly  heated  through,  serve. 
This  is  for  venison  that  has  been  once  cooked. 


Venison  Steaks.  —  Fry  or  broil  the  steaks,  and  serve 
hot,  with  currant  jelly  by  itself,  or  warmed  with  Port  wine. 


POUIiTRY,   &c. 


Be  careful,  in  choosing  a  goose,  that  the  feet  and  bill  are 
yellow;  if  they  are  red  they  are  old.  When  fresh,  the  feet 
are  pliable;  if  stale,  they  are  dry  and  stiff;  if  the  skin  and 
joints  are  tender,  it  is  good. 


To  ROAST  Goose.  —  Draw  the  inside  from  the  goose,  take 
out  the  loose  fat,  wash  it  inside  and  out  with  warm  water, 
then  rub  it  well  over  with  a  mixture  of  pepper  and  salt; 


118  EVERY   lady's   BOOK. 

prepare  a  stuflBng  as  follows :  Cut  up  nearly  a  whole  six- 
penny loaf,  butter  it  well,  put  to  it  enough  warm  water  to 
moisten  it,  and  pepper  and  salt  to  taste ;  if  liked,  a  little  fine 
thyme  or  sage  may  be  added  to  it.  Fill  the  goose,  and  then 
fasten  it  together  with  a  coarse  needle  and  thread,  have  a 
bright  fire,  baste  first  with  salt  and  water,  turn  it  often ; 
from  one  hour  to  an  hour  and  a  half  will  roast  a  good  sized 
goose ;  thicken  tne  gravy  with  a  little  flour  and  water ;  if 
there  is  much  fat  skim  it  off  and  strain  the  rest.  Apples 
stewed  without  sugar,  boiled  turnips,  celery  and  mashed  pota- 
toes, are  served  with  it,  also  boiled  onions 


To  BROIL  Birds.  —  To  prepare  birds  or  chickens  for 
broiling,  split  them  up  the  sides,  take  off  the  leg  at  the  hip 
joint,  and  also  take  off  the  wing,  and  flatten  the  breast  and 
back-bone;  lay  the  pieces  on  a  gridiron  over  bright  coals, 
turn  them  often  until  they  are  well  done,  then  rub  them  well 
over  with  sweet  butter,  in  which  pepper  and  salt  are  worked ; 
cover  them,  and  keep  the  dish  hot  until  they,  are  served. 


Pigeon  or  Bird's  Cutlets. — Divide  pigeons  in  half 
from  the  neck  to  the  rump,  turn  the  foot  inwards,  so  that  it 
may  appear  like  the  bone  of  a  cutlet  chop;  season  it  with 
salt  and  pepper,  roll  it  in  flour,  and  fry  it  in  hot  butter  and 
lard;  keep  it  covered  whilst  frying;  have  a  quick  fire. 
Chickens,  turkeys,  ducks  and  game,  may  be  roasted  the  same 
as  geese,  with  the  exception  that  all  the  fat  is  to  remain. 


Rabbits.  —  Cut  off  the  fore  legs  at  the  first  joint,  raise 
the  skin  of  the  back  and  draw  it  over  the  hind  lcg«,  leave 
the  tail  on  them,  draw  the  skin  over  the  back  and  slip  out 


EVERY  lady's  BOOK.  119 

tbe  fore  legs,  cut  it  from  the  neck  and  head,  cut  off  the  ears, 
cut  it  open,  clean  it,  and  fill  it  with  a  stuffing;  bring  the 
hind  Icizs  forward  and  run  a  skewer  from  one  to  the  other 
through  the  body ;  do  the  same  with  the  fore  legs,  turn  the 
head  back  and  put  a  skewer  in  at  the  mouth  and  through 
the  back  of  the  neck  to  keep  the  head  in  its  place ;  tie  a 
string  around  the  body  to  keep  the  stuffing  in,  and  roast  it 
the  same  as  a  goose ;  or  it  may  be  broiled  to  eat  with  a  sauce. 


Game.  —  Game  may  often  be  made  fit  for  eating,  when 
apparently  spoiled,  by  nicely  cleaning  it  and  washing  with 
vinegar ;  if  you  have  any  birds  which  you  fear  will  not  keep, 
draw,  crop,  and  pick  them;  wash  in  two  or  three  waters, 
and  salt  them  ;  have  in  readiness  a  saucepan  of  boiling  wa- 
ter, and  plunge  them  in  one  by  one,  drawing  them  up  and 
down  by  the  legs,  that  the  water  may  pass  through  them ; 
do  this  for  five  minutes,  then  hang  them  up  in  a  cold  place ; 
when  perfectly  cold,  rub  some  salt  and  pepper  on  the  inside, 
wash  them  before  dressing;  the  most  delicate  birds  may  be 
preserved  in  this  way. 


Chicken  Fritters.  —  Make  a  batter  with  two  eggs,  a 
quart  of  new  milk  and  flour;  to  this  add  a  cold  roast  or 
boiled  chicken  cut  small ;  season  with  salt  and  pepper,  fry 
in  lard. 


Chickens  Pulled.  —  Take  off  the  legs,  rump  and  side 
bones  of  a  cold  chicken,  and  pull  the  white  parts  into  shreds, 
toss  them  up  in  a  little  cream,  flour,  butter,  salt  and  pepper; 
stir  them  together  till  the  butter  is  melted,  lay  it  in  a  dish ; 
lay  the  rump  in  the  middle,  and  the  legs  at  each  end,  having 
previously  broiled  and  seasoned  them. 


120  EVERY  lady's  BOOK. 

White  Fricassee  of  Chicken.  —  Cut  up  the  fowls,  and 
soak  tTiem  in  milk  and  water  for  two  hours ;  then  put  them 
in  a  stewpan  with  butter  rolled  in  flour,  add  salt  and  pepper, 
and  half  a  pint  of  milk,  with  an  egg  beaten  in  it ;  let  them 
stew  gently  for  one  hour. 


Brown  Fricassee.  —  Cut  up  the  fowls,  take  out  the  en- 
trails and  crop ;  take  the  gall-bag  carefully  from  the  liver, 
clean  the  gizzard  and  heart,  then  give  the  whole  a  good  rinse, 
then  put  them  in  a  stewpan  with  rather  more  water  than  to 
cover  them,  and  then  simmer  until  tender,  then  add  a  quar- 
ter of  a  pound  of  butter,  worked  together  with  a  tablespoon- 
ful  of  flour,  add  pepper  and  salt,  and  chopped  parsley  to 
taste,  give  it  one  good  boil  and  serve. 


Chicken  and  Turkey  Patties.  —  Mince  some  cold 
chicken  or  turkey,  put  to  it  some  of  the  gravy,  or  if  you  have 
none,  line  your  pie-dish  with  a  paste,  put  in  your  minced 
meat ;  work  some  butter  and  flour  together,  and  lay  bits  all 
over  the  meat,  then  nearly  fill  the  dish  with  water,  season 
with  pepper  and  salt;  and  if  liked,  a  little  ground  mace, 
cover  v/ith  a  nice  paste,  and  cook  until  the  crust  is  done. 


Wild  Fowl.  —  The  flavor  of  wild  fowl  is  preserved  bet- 
ter by  not  stuffing  them ;  put  in  each  pepper,  salt,  and  a  bit 
of  butter.  Wild  fowl  do  not  require  as  much  dressing  as 
tame;  they  should  be  done  of  a  nice  color,  and  nicely  froth- 
ed, and  a  rich  gravy  served  in  the  dish  with  them ;  if  you 
wish  to  remove  the  fishy  smell,  put  an  onion  and  salt,  and 
hot  water,  in  the  dripping-pan,  and  baste  for  the  first  ten 
minutes  with  this ;  then  remove  the  pan,  and  keep  constantly 
basting  with  butter. 


EVERY   lady's   BOOK.  121 


PRESERVES. 


Marmalade  may  be  made  of  almost  any  fruit.  The  best, 
however,  are  peaches,  quinces,  oranges  and  apples. 

It  is  usually  made  by  boiling  the  fruit  and  sugar  togeth- 
er, and  constantly  stirring  it  to  a  kind  of  pulp.  When 
done,  put  it  in  stone  or  white  earthen  jars  ;  covet  close  when 
cold. 


Candied  Orange  Peel.  —  Boil  the  rind  of  thick-skin- 
ned oranges  in  several  waters,  until  all  the  bitter  is  extract- 
ed, then  boil  it  until  tender  in  clarified  sugar;  when  perfectly 
clear  and  transparent  it  is  done. 


Baked  Pears.  —  Wash  half  a  peck  of  good  baking 
pears,  and  lay  them  in  an  iron  pot  or  pan,  pour  over  them 
of  molasses  and  water  each  a  pint ;  when  the  syrup  is  rich 
and  thick,  and  the  pears  tender,  they  are  done. 

In  making  fine  preserves,  when  double-refined  sugar  is 
used,  it  is  much  less  trouble  than  when  brown  sugar  is  made 
use  of.  As  in  the  first  case,  one  has  but  to  put  just  enough 
water  to  dissolve  the  sugar  and  give  it  a  boil,  and  it  is  ready 
for  the  fruit ;  whereas  in  the  latter,  it  must  go  through  a 
long  process  of  clarification.  A  clean  brass  or  porcelain  ket- 
tle must  be  used  for  preserves. 


Peach  Preserves.  —  Take  ripe,  sound   peaches,  peel 

them  and  cut  them  in  halves,  take  of  white  sugar  a  pound 

for  each  pound   of  fruit;  add  a  teacup  of  water  to  each 

pound;  set  it  on  a  gentle  fire  or  furnace,  stir  it  with  a 

11 


122  EVERT  lady's  BOOK. 

wooden  or  silver  spoon  until  it  is  all  divssolved  and  hot,  thea 
add  the  fruit  and  let  it  boil  until  it  is  clear.  Take  it  up  in 
pots  with  a  skimmer,  give  the  syrup  one  more  boil,  take  off 
any  scum  which  may  rise,  then  pour  it  over  the  fruit. 
When  perfectly  cold,  lay  a  piece  of  paper  saturated  with 
brandy  over  the  preserves,  and  paste  a  piece  of  fine,  close 
writing  paper  over  the  top  of  the  jar  or  pot;  this  will  keep 
out  all  the  air,  and  consequently  keep  the  preserves  from 
working. 

The  above  is  not  the  usual  method  of  preserving  ripe  fruit, 
but  it  will  be  found  to  have  this  advantage  over  the  usual 
method  :  The  juice  not  being  drawn  out  by  the  sugar,  the 
fruit  has  more  of  the  natural  taste,  and  is  not  made  hard, 
as  in  the  other  method.  Peaches  may  be  done  whole; 
punch  the  stones  out  before  paring.  Pine-apple  slices,  ber- 
ries, cherries,  plums,  or  any  other  ripe  fruit,  may  be  done  in 
this  way. 


Peaches  IN  Brandy.  —  Take  the  finest  white  peaches 
you  can  get,  not  over  ripe,  rub  off  the  lint  with  a  flannel 
cloth,  cut  them  down  the  seam  with  a  large  needle,  and 
cover  them  with  white  brandy ;  let  them  stand  for  a  week, 
then  make  a  syrup  of  a  pound  of  sugar  for  each  pound  of 
peaches,  take  the  fruit  from  the  brandy  to  the  syrup,  and 
boil  them  until  they  are  clear;  then  take  them  out,  give  the 
gyrup  another  boil,  then  put  it  to  the  brandy,  and  then  pour 
it  over  the  fruit ;  cover  close. 


Pippins  in  Slices. — Take  the  fairest  pippins,  pare 
them  and  cut  them  in  slices  without  taking  the  cores  out, 
take  the  same  weight  of  white  sugar,  put  to  it  just  water 
enough  to  dissolve  it  (not  more  than  a   gill  to  a  pound)  ; 


EVERY  lady's  BOOK.  123 

when  it  is  so,  put  it  over  a  gentle  fire,  let  it  come  to  a  boil, 
then  add  the  sliced  apples,  with  two  or  three  lemons  sliced; 
then  when  they  look  transparent,  take  them  up  in  a  shallow 
glass  dish.  Give  the  syrup  one  more  boil,  then  when  a  lit- 
tle cooled,  pour  it  over.  These  may  be  done  whenever  they 
may  be  wanted;  two  hours  will  do  them. 


Watermelon  Preserved.  —  Cut  off  the  green  outside 
and  the  inside,  leaving  only  the  white  part;  cut  it  in  form, 
scald  them  in  water  in  which  is  a  little  alum  and  peach 
leaves,  or  lemon  skins,  when  tender  take  them  in  a  colander. 
Make  a  syrup  of  equal  weight  of  sugar,  strain  it,  and  put 
it  to  the  fruit.  Add  to  it  some  thin  slices  of  lemon,  and  let 
it  boil  gently  until  it  looks  clear,  when  it  is  done  enough ; 
take  it  from  the  syrup  with  a  skimmer,  give  it  a  good  boil, 
skim  it,  and  put  the  whole  in  jars  or  pots. 

Citron,  melon  or  muskmelon,  may  be  done  in  the  same 
manner  ;  the  muskmelon  must  be  cut  in  long  strips.  >  A  lit- 
tle green  ginger  done  with  it  is  liked  by  some. 


Quinces.  —  The  large  apple  quince  makes  the  finest  pre- 
serve. Pare,  halve,  and  take  the  cores  from  your  quinces, 
then  put  them  in  clear  water  to  cover  them,  cover  them  and 
let  them  boil  gently  until  you  can  pass  a  broom  splint  through 
them,  then  take  them  from  the  hot  water  with  a  skimmer 
into  a  pan  of  cold  water  (this  will  preserve  the  light  color), 
take  as  many  pounds  of  sugar  as  you  have  quinces,  put  to  it 
enough  of  the  water  in  which  the  quinces  were  boiled,  to 
dissolve  it,  put  it  over  a  gentle  fire  and  let  it  come  to  a  boil, 
then  put  in  the  quinces  until  they  are  transparent,  after 
which  take  them  from  the  syrup,  give  it  one  more  boil,  then 


124  EVERY   lady's   BOOK. 

pour  it  over  the  quinces.  When  they  are  cold,  lay  a  paper 
dipped  in  brandy-upon  them,  and  paste  a  fine  writing  paper 
over  the  pot  or  jar. 


Grapes.  —  A  new  and  excellent  way  to  preserve  grapes, 
is  to  pick  the  fruit  from  the  stems,  take  an  equal  weight  of 
sugar,  dissolve  it  with  as  little  water  as  possible,  and  put  it 
over  a  gentle  fire;  then  squeeze  the  pulp  from  the  skins, 
save  them,  put  the  inside  or  pulp  to  the  syrup,  bruise  them 
to  get  out  all  the  juice.  After  one  or  two  good  boils,  strain 
and  squeeze  it  through  a  tliin  muslin,  this  will  take  out  the 
seeds.  Then  put  in  the  skins  to  the  syrup,  and  return  to 
the  fire,  they  will  fill  up  in  one  or  two  boils.  Finish  by 
pouring  them  out,  and  when  cold,  cover  them  as  nearly  air- 
tight as  possible. 

Small  glass  jars  are  best  for  any  preserve,  but  of  course, 
the  preserve  must  be  cold,  or  nearly  so,  before  putting  it  in 
glass. 


Apple  Jelly.  —  Take  the  core  from  fine  rich  pippins  or 
tart  apples,  put  enough  water  to  them  to  cover  them.  When 
boiled  to  pulp,  strain  them  through  a  thin  muslin;  measure 
the  liquor,  and  to  each  pint  put  a  pound  of  white  sugar,  fla- 
vor with  lemon,  and  boil  it  to  a  fine  jelly;  try  it  by  taking 
some  into  a  saucer  to  cool.  Keep  it  in  large  tumblers  or 
wide-mouthed  jars.  Wet  tissue  paper  and  press  it  closely 
over  it. 


Currant  Jelly.  —  For  each  pint  of  the  juice  take  a 
pound  of  white  sugar,  dissolve  it  with  as  little  water  as  pos- 
sible, then  put  it  over  a  gentle  fire,  and  put  the  currant  juice 


EVERY   lady's   BOOK.  125 

to  it.     Let  it  simmer  until  it  is  a  fine  jelly ;  to  ascertain 
which,  cool  some  in  a  saucer. 

Finish  the  sauce  as  apple  jelly.  Currants  for  jelly  must 
not  be  too  ripe,  but  merely  red;  fully  ripe  currants  make  a 
ropy  jelly. 

To  STEW  Dried  Fruit.  —  Wash  the  fruit  (peaches,  cher- 
ries, or  plums),  and  to  it  put  twice  as  much  water  as  will 
cover  it.  Let  it  stew  until  it  is  swelled  to  its  full  size,  then 
add  to  it  a  sufficiency  of  sugar  to  make  it  sweet  to  your  taste, 
add  more  water  if  necessary,  and  let  it  simmer  gently  until 
the  syrup  is  rich  enough.  Cherries  and  plums  take  at  least 
two  pounds  of  sugar  to  a  quart ;  peaches  require  rather  less. 


Pine  Apples  preserved  without  Cooking.  —  Pare 
off  the  rough  coat  of  the  pine-apple  and  cut  it  in  thin  slices, 
have  pulverized  white  sugar  ready,  put  some  at  the  bottom 
of  a  glass  jar,  then  put  in  a  layer  of  sliced  pine-apple,  strew 
this  plentifully  with  the  sugar,  say  as  thick  again  as  the  layer 
of  fruit,  then  another  layer  of  pine-apple,  and  then  one  of 
sugar,  and  so  sugar  and  fj  uit  alternately  until  the  jar  is  full. 
It  must  be  pressed  down  as  tightly  as  possible ;  and  lastly, 
fill  it  top  full  of  sugar,  then,  by  sealing  it,  make  it  as  nearly 
air-tight  as  possible,  and  set  them  away  in  a  dry,  cool  place; 
do  not  open  them  until  the  weather  is  cool. 


PICKIiES,  MANGOES,  VEGETABLES,  &c. 

To  pickle  Nasturtions. — Put  them  in  wide-mouthed 
bottles,  and  cover  with  cold  vinegar ;  cover  close. 
11^ 


126  EVERY    LADY'S   BOOK. 

To  PICKLE  Onions.  —  Peel  off  the  skins  of  the  onions, 
scald  them  in  salt  and  water,  then  take  them  up.  Scald 
some  vinegar,  with  allspice,  whole  cloves,  and  mustard  seed 
in  it;  pour  it  hot  over  the  onions;  there  must  be  sufficient 
vinegar  to  cover  the  onions.  When  cold,  cover  close.  Some 
sweet  oil  on  the  vinegar  keeps  the  air  from  them.  The  small 
white  onions  are  the  sort  for  pickling. 

Another.  —  Peel  the  onions  until  they  are  white,  boil 
some  strong  salt  water  and  pour  it  hot  over  them,  cover 
them  and  let  them  stand  twenty-four  hours,  then  take  them 
up  with  a  skimmer,  and  pour  boiling-hot  spiced  vinegar  over. 
Any  pickle  must  have  enough  vinegar  to  cover  it. 


Melon  Mangoes.  —  Have  small  green  melons,  cut  a  bit 
the  size  of  a  twenty-five  cent  piece,  take  out  the  seeds,  then 
secure  each  piece  to  its  own  melon.  Make  a  strong  brine  of 
salt  and  water,  and  pour  it  over  the  melons,  let  them  remain 
for  twenty-four  hours,  then  take  them  out  and  prepare  the 
following  stuffing :  Sliced  horse-radish,  small  cucumbers, 
beans,  nasturtions,  mustard  seed,  whole  cloves,  and  black 
pepper;  fill  each  melon,  then  sew  the  piece  on,  and  when  all 
are  done  lay  them  in  a  stone  jar;  make  some  good  cider 
vinegar  boiling  hot,  and  pour  it  over  them.  Cover  it  with 
a  cloth,  and  let  them  stand  all  night,  then  pour  the  vinegar 
off,  give  it  another  boil,  and  again  pour  it  over  hot.  Repeat 
this  three  or  four  times,  and  they  are  done.  This  is  not  the 
usual  way,  but  much  the  best. 


Pickled  Peaches.  —  Take  ripe,  sound  clingstone  peach- 
es; remove  the  down  with  a  brush;  to  a  gallon  of  good  vin- 
egar made  hot,  add  four  pounds  of  coarse  brown  sugar,  boil 


EVERY    lady's    BOOK.  127 

it  down  and  skim  it  clear,  stick  five  or  six  cloves  in  each 
peach,  put  them  into  a  stone  jar,  and  strain  the  vinegar  over 
them  whilst  hot,  cover  the  vessel  and  set  it  in  a  cold  place 
for  a  few  days,  then  drain  off  the  vinegar,  make  it  boiling 
hot  again,  strain  it  over,  and  set  them  away. 
•  Freestone  peaches  may  be  used. 


Pickled  Plums.  —  Make  the  same  as  pickled  peaches'. 
Damsons  are  best.  Instead  of  draining  off  the  vinegar  the 
last  time,  turn  plums  and  all  together  into  the  kettle,  and 
let  them  boil  gently  until  the  syrup  is  rich.  These  pickles 
are  a  good  substitute  for  currant  jelly,  or  to  use  in  turn 
with  it. 


Pickled  Cucumbers.  —  Make  a  strong  brine  (which 
will  float  an  egg),  and  pour  over  it  your  pickles,  let  them 
stand  in  this  for  a  day  and  night,  then  take  them  from  it, 
put  them  into  a  bright  brass  kettle  with  vinegar  and  water, 
and  a  good  bit  of  alum,  to  green  and  harden  them.  Fold  a 
thick  coarse  towel  over  them,  and  simmer  them  until  thor- 
oughly heated  through,  then  take  them  up  with  a  skimmer 
into  a  stone  pot  or  firkin,  and  cover  with  cold  strong  vinegar, 
with  plenty  of  spice,  cloves,  mustard  seed,  and  whole  pepper. 

Green  peppers  may  be  done  in  the  sam.e  manner.  It  is 
best  to  slit  one  seam  and  take  out  part  of  the  seeds,  other- 
wise they  will  be  too  strong. 


VEaETABIiES. 


Most  vegetables  require  to  be  well  washed,  in  plenty  of 
water.     Green  vegetables  are  good  in  proportion  as  they 


128  EVERY  lady's  book. 

are  fresh.     Spinach,  cucumbers,  new  potatoes  and  turnips, 
should  lie  in  cold  water  for  some  time  before  dressing. 


Potatoes.  —  The  easiest  way  to  dress  potatoes,  is  to  wash 
them  well  in  two  or  three  waters,  taking  off  bits  of  the  skin 
from  each  end  about  the  size  of  a  two-shilling  piece,  theci 
throw  them  into  a  pot  of  boiling  water  with  a  teaspoonful 
of  salt;  they  will  be  done  (if  common  sized  potatoes)  in 
about  three-quarters  of  an  hour;  when  done,  take  the  skin 
off,  lay  them  close  on  a  dish,  butter  them,  shake  pepper  over, 
and  serve  in  a  covered  dish.  New  potatoes  must  be  scraped 
with  a  knife  to  take  the  skin  off,  then  boiled  and  served  up 
in  the  same  way.  Old  potatoes,  if  not  the  very  best,  may 
be  made  good  by  cutting  out  all  imperfections,  and  after 
boiling  them,  finish  as  follows :  Mash  them  fine  with  a  po- 
tato beetle,  add  milk  and  sweet  butter  to  make  them  smooth, 
and  form  them  in  a  roll,  ornamenting  them  with  spots  of 
'  pepper,  or  browning  them  in  an  oven,  or  before  the  fire. 


Potatoes  IN  HASTE. — A  very  nice  little  dish  maybe 
made  of  potatoes,  in  about  fifteen  minutes  (or  less  if  the 
water  is  boiling),  peel  and  cut  some  potatoes  in  slices,  a 
quarter  or  half  an  inch  thick,  pour  on  them  boiling  water 
enough  to  cover  them,  and  let  them  boil  till  tender;  skim 
them,  then  add  butter  with  flour,  worked  in  it  in  proportion 
to  the  quantity  of  potatoes,  let  it  boil  up  once,  add  a  little 
chopped  parsley,  and  serve  with  the  addition  of  pepper  to 
taste. 


Fried  or  boiled  Potatoes.  —  Cut  cold  boiled  potatoes 
in  slices  a  quarter  of  an  inch  thick ;  have  ready  a  frying-pan 


EVERY   lady's    BOOK.  129 

with  hot  lard  or  dripping,  in  which  put  some  salt,  lay  in  the 
potatoes,  and  let  them  fry  a  delicate  brown,  turning  them  as 
they  require,  or  lay  them  on  a  gridiron  over  bright  coals, 
and  as  they  are  done  take  them  on  a  hot  dish,  with  butter, 
pepper,  and  salt,  to  taste. 

To  ROAST  Potatoes.  — Wash  them  perfectly  clean  from 
sand  or  earth,  and  lay  them  in  a  hot  oven  or  on  a  hearth  be- 
fore a  bright  fire,  turn  them  so  that  they  may  bake  evenly. 


Sweet  Potatoes.  —  These  are  much  better  roasted  than 
any  other  way.  They  are  boiled  the  same  as  common  pota- 
toes ;  cold  boiled  sweet  potatoes  may  be  fried  or  broiled. 


Turnips.  — Peel  turnips  and  boil  them  the  same  as  pota-- 
toes;  they  require  about  the  same  length  of  time  to  do; 
serve  the  whole  with  butter,  and  pepper  over,  or  a  drawn 
butter  sauce,  or  mash  them  with  butter,  pepper,  and  salt. 
The  yellow  or  Russia  turnip  requires  longer  time  than  the 
white. 


Hashed  Potatoes.  —  Cold  boiled  potatoes  may  be  chop- 
ped or  cut  small,  and  heated  over  with  a  little  water,  butter, 
pepper,  and  salt;  they  must  be  thoroughly  warmed,  with 
only  water  to  moisten  them. 


Parsnips. — Wash  parsnips  and  boil  them  with  their 
skins  on,  when  done,  scrape  them  and  slice  them  with  but- 
ter, pepper,  and  salt;  or  fry  them  as  potatoes  in  hot  lard;  or 
they  may  be  stewed  down  with  meat. 


130  EVERY    lady's    BOOK. 

Carrots.  —  Carrots  may  be  plain  boiled,  and  served  with 
a  drawn  butter  sauce.  They  are  generally  used  in  soups^ 
sliced  or  grated. 


Squashes  or  Cymlines.  —  Cut  off  the  outside  skin  of 
squashes  ;  cut  it  open  and  take  out  the  seeds  and  insides, 
boil  the  same  as  potatoes ;  when  tender  take  them  from  the 
water  into  a  colander,  press  ail  the  water  from  them,  and  sea- 
son with  butter,  pepper,  and  salt. 


Spinach.  —  Spinach  must  be  well  washed  in  two  or  three 
waters,  each  cluster  of  leaves  should  be  examined ;  put  it  in 
boiling  water  with  a  little  salt;  twelve  or  fifteeen  minutes 
will  do  it ;  when  done  take  it  into  a  colander  and  press  all 
the  water  from  it;  serve  with  hard-boiled  eggs  sliced  over  it, 
or  chopped,  and  season  with  butter,  pepper,  and  salt. 


Asparagus. — This  is  a  constant  dish  in  the  Spring. 
While  it  is  in  season,  the  largest  is  considered  best.  There 
are  several  ways  of  dressing  it. 


Asparagus  (Italian).  —  Break  the  asparagus  in  pieces, 
boil  them  soft,  then  drain  the  water  from  them,  then  take  a 
little  butter  or  sweet  oil,  water,  and  vinegar,  let  it  boil,  then 
throw  in  the  asparagus,  and  thicken  with  the  beaten  yolks 
of  eggs 

Buttered  Asparagus.  —  Trim  off  the  hard  part  of  a 
bundle  of  asparagus  neatly,  and  boil  the  remainder  in  clear 
water  until  tender.  Then  toast  some  thin  slices  of  bread  of 
a  delicate  brown,  and  place  the  boiled  asparagus  neatly  over 
it,  and  pour  over  it  melted  butter  or  butter  sauce. 


EVERY    lady's    BOOK.  ISl 

Asparagus  and  Eggs. — Butter  some  thin  slices  of 
toast  and  lay  them  on  a  dish,  then  cut  some  boiled  asparagus 
about  the  size  of  peas,  break  some  eggs  in  a  basin,  beat  them 
well,  and  then  add  salt,  pepper,  and  the  asparagus,  with  two 
ounces  of  butter,  put  these  into  a  stewpan,  and  set  it  on  the 
coals  and  stir  it  until  it  is  thick,  then  pour  it  over  the  toast, 
and  serve. 


Asparagus  Salad.  —  Boil  a  bundle  of  asparagus  in  salt 
and  water  till  tender,  then  take  them  from  the  hot  water  with 
a  skimmer  and  throw  them  into  cold  water  for  about  five 
minutes,  then  drain  them  dry,  lay  them  in  rows  in  a  salad 
bowl,  and  pour  over  a  dressing  as  for  celery  or  salad. 


Tomatoes.  —  Tomatoes  may  be  baked  or  stewed.  To 
stew  them,  peel  them  and  press  the  seeds  and  juice  out  with 
the  hand,  and  put  them  in  a  covered  stewpan  with  a  little 
salt.  They  must  be  stirred  with  a  silver  spoon  to  prevent 
their  burning.  When  dissolved,  add  a  good  bit  of  butter 
and  some  pepper,  and  serve. 

Or,  after  peeling  and  pressing  them,  add  to  them  bread 
crumbs,  bits  of  butter,  and  some  pepper,  and  bake  or  stew 
them. 


Egg  Plant.  —  Cut  the  plant  in  thin  slices,  take  off  the 
rind,  then  lay  them  on  a  plate  with  salt  sprinkled  between 
the  slices,  for  an  hour  or  two  before  cooking ;  then  lay  an- 
other plate  over  and  drain  off  the  liquor;  have  a  batter 
made  of  an  egg  to  a  teacup  of  milk,  and  sufficient  flour,  and 
.having  dried  the  slices  dip  each  one  into  the  batter,  and  fry 
them  a  nice  brown  in  some  butter  or  beef-dripping  made  hot 


132  EVERY   lady's   BOOK. 

in  a  frying  pan.     Let  the  fat  be  hot  when  they  are  put  in, 
and  when  one  side  is  done,  brown  the  other. 


Salsify,  or  Oyster  Plant.  —  The  vegetable  oyster,  to 
eat  well,  may  be  prepared  in  the  following  manner :  Scrape 
the  roots  well,  and  wash  them  till  tender.  They  may  then 
be  cut  in  slices,  and  served  with  drawn  butter,  or  fried  as 
parsnips,  or  mashed  and  beaten  with  a  batter  of  eggs,  milk 
and  flour,  and  fried  as  fritters. 


Artichokes  —  Must  be  stripped  of  leaves,  and  the  stalks 
cut  close,  then  lay  them  in  cold  spring  water  for  some  hours. 
They  may  then  be  made  a  salad  of  by  slicing  them  very  thin 
and  serving  with  vinegar,  pepper,  and  salt,  and  if  liked,  a 
teaspoonful  of  oil,  or  boiled  till  tender,  and  served  with 
drawn  butter. 


Cucumbers.  —  The  fresher  this  vegetable  is,  the  more 
palatable  and  wholesome.  To  dress  them,  cut  off  about  an 
inch  of  the  stem  end,  which  is  generally  bitter,  and  take  off 
every  particle  of  the  green  outside,  then  lay  them  in  a  pan 
of  cold  water  before  slicing.  Leaving  them  in  water,  after 
they  are  sliced,  takes  away  that  peculiar  flavor  which  is 
their  characteristic.  Send  them  to  the  table  sliced  thin, 
with  vinegar,  salt,  and  pepper. 

Young  onions  are  sometimes  sliced  with  them,  and  are 
thought  to  render  them  less  injurious.  Cucumbers  are  liked 
cut  in  quarters  to  eat  with  salt. 


Onions.  —  White  onions  are  best  for  boiling.     Take  off 
the  skins  and  lay  them  in  cold  water  for  an  hour  or  two  be- 


EVERY   lady's   BOOK.  133 

fore  boiling.  When  boiled  tender,  serve  them  with  butter, 
pepper,  and  salt  over,  or  a  drawn  butter.  The  red  ones  are 
good  sliced  thin,  with  vinegar,  pepper,  and  salt.  Onions 
may  be  fried  like  potatoes. 


Beets.  —  Break  off  the  leaves,  but  do  not  cut  beets,  as 
that  spoils  both  the  flavor  and  appearance,  wash  them  and 
boil  them  till  tender,  then  take  them  out  into  a  basin  of  cold 
water  and  rub  all  the  outside  skin  off  with  the  hands,  then 
slice  them  thin  in  a  dish  and  just  cover  them  with  cold  vin- 
egar, and  sprinkle  with  pepper  and  salt,  or  quarter  them, 
and  lay  them  for  a  day  or  two  in  cold  vinegar,  as  they  are 
then  fit  for  use.  The  tops  of  young  beets  are  dressed  as  as- 
paragus. 


Sweet  Corn.  —  Sweet  corn,  or  sugar  corn  as  it  is  called, 
is  best  for  the  table.  Strip  off  all  the  husks  and  break  the 
ears  in  two  or  three  pieces,  then  put  them  in  boiling  water 
to  cover  them,  with  a  teaspoonful  of  salt.  If  young  and 
tender,  one  hour  will  boil  them ;  if  not  very  young,  it  will 
require  longer  boiling.     Eat  with  salt  and  cold  butter. 

Or,  after  taking  off  the  leaves  and  silk,  cut  the  corn  clean 
from  the  cob  with  a  sharp  knife,  and  put  it  in  a  stewpan  with 
water  enough  to  keep  it  from  burning,  let  it  boil  gently  for 
an  hour  and  a  half,  then  add  to  it  butter,  pepper,  and  salt  to 
taste,  and  serve  hot.     Lima  beans  are  served  with  this. 


Lima  Beans.  —  After  taking  these  from  the  pod,  lay  them 

in  cold  water  for  a  short  time,  then  boil  them  in  water  to  cover 

them,  until  they  are  tender,  which  will  be  in  about  an  hour. 

They  must  boil  gently ;  then  if  the  water  is  not  boiled  nearly 

12 


13  4  EVKrtY    lady's    book. 

out,  drain  it  off.     Add  to  them  butter,  pepper,  and  salt,  and 
serve. 

Green  corn  is  frequently  boiled  and  served  mixed  with 
them.     (See  Green  Corn.') 


Green,  or  Stringed  Beans.  —  Get  young,  tender 
beans,  take  off  the  stem  end,  and  the  strings  from  the  sides 
of  the  beans,  and  cut  them  in  lozenges  of  an  inch  length, 
then  boil  them  tender  in  water  to  cover  them.  Some  boil 
a  bit  of  salt  pork  with  them,  or  add  to  them  when  dished, 
butter,  salt,  and  pepper  to  taste.  Green  corn  cut  from  the 
cob  is  cooked  with  them,  and  called  succotash. 


Radishes.  —  The  red  early  radishes  are  good  only  when 
fresh.  Trim  them  neatly,  leaving,  if  you  please,  a  little  of 
the  green  at  the  top.  Lay  them  in  cold  water  for  an  hour 
or  more  before  using,  and  serve  with  salt. 

Winter  radishes  must  be  pared  or  scraped,  and  cut  in 
halves. 


Celery.  —  Scrape  and  wash  the  celery,  cut  the  white 
part  in  thin  slices  and  serve  in  a  deep  dish  (glass  is  best), 
with  a  dressing  of  a  cup  of  vinegar,  a  teaspoon ful  of  made 
mustard,  and  the  same  of  sweet  oil  well  mixed ;  a  little  salt 
may  also  be  added ;  ornament  the  edge  of  the  dish  with  a 
vine  of  the  most  delicate  of  the  green  leaves,  and  finish  with 
a  sprig  in  the  center.  Or  send  it  to  the  table  in  a  celery 
glass  to  eat  with  salt. 


Green  Peas.  —  (See  Lima  Beans.)   Peas  are  prepared  in 
the  same  manner. 


EVERY    lady's    BOOK  135 

Hominy.  —  There  are  three  sizes  of  hominy ;  the  middle 
size  is  best.  Wash  a  teacup  of  it  well  in  two  or  three  wa- 
ters, all  that  is  not  good  wnll  rise  to  the  top ;  drain  it  care- 
fully oflF;  then  put  to  it  a  quart  of  water,  and  let  it  stand  all 
night;  in  the  morning  add  to  it  a  teaspoonful  of  salt,  and 
set  the  vessel  which  contains  it  over  the  fire,  in  a  kettle  of 
boiling  water;  one  hour  will  boil  it.  The  reason  for  putting 
it  in  water  is,  that  otherwise  it  is  very  apt  to  turn  :  when  it 
has  absorbed  all  the  water,  stir  it  well  with  a  spoon  and 
serve.  Coarse  hominy  requires  five  or  six  hours  boiling ; 
dried  beans  are  cooked  with  it. 


Dried  Beans.  —  Get  good  white  beans,  lay  them  in  soak, 
after  having  picked  out  all  the  imperfect,  for  one  night,  then 
put  them  in  fresh  water  two  inches  more  than  to  cover  them, 
add  a  bit  of  salt  or  corned  pork,  and  boil  them  for  an  hour 
and  a  half  or  two  hours,  until  they  are  perfectly  tender. 
Coarse  hominy  boiled  and  added  to  them  is  succotash;  cay- 
enne pepper  improves  them. 


Rice.  —  Wash  and  pick  a  pint  of  rice,  and  put  it  in  wa- 
ter three  inches  more  than  to  cover  it,  add  a  teaspoonful  of 
salt,  and  let  it  boil  gently  until  the  water  is  all  absorbed  or 
taken  up;  it  is  then  done.  If  the  vessel  containing  it  is 
set  in  another  in  which  is  boiling  water,  there  is  less  danger 
of  its  burninsr. 


Lettuce.  —  Separate  all  the  leaves  and  lay  them  in  a  pan 
of  cold  water  for  an  hour  before  using,  then  take  first  the 
outer  leaves,  and  spread  them  over  the  sides  and  bottom  of 
the  dish,  reserving  the  white  tender  leaves  for  the  top ;  have 


136  EVERY  lady's  BOOK. 

ready  some  hard  boiled  cold  eggs,  and  slice  or  quarter  them 
and  lay  them  over  the  salad  3  have  vinegar,  oil,  and  mus- 
tard, in  the  castor  Some  like  the  addition  of  a  spoonful  of 
white  sugar. 


Cabbage.  —  Take  ofi"  the  outside  leaves,  and  cut  the 
heads  in  four;  look  well  between  the  leaves  to  see  that  there 
are  no  insects  secreted.  Wash  the  quarters  and  put  them 
in  boiling  water,  with  a  little  salt,  and  boil  for  an  hour; 
when  perfectly  tender,  take  it  up  in  a  colander,  and  press  all 
the  water  out,  then  take  it  out  and  chop  it  small ;  add  but- 
ter, pepper,  and  salt  to  taste,  and  serve.  Or,  it  may  be 
boiled  with  salt  beef  or  pork. 


Cabbage  Salad  and  cold  Slaw.  —  Take  a  hard  close 
head  of  cabbage,  cut  it  in  two,  and  with  a  sharp  knife  shave 
it  fine,  lay  it  in  a  dish,  and  garnish  and  finish  as  lettuce. 
For  cold  slaw  cut  it  in  the  same  way,  then  add  to  it  a  good 
bit  of  butter,  some  vinegar,  pepper,  and  salt  to  taste,  and 
put  it  in  a  clean  stewpan,  set  it  on  the  fire,  and  stir  it  with  a 
silver  spoon  until  the  seasoning  is  mixed,  and  the  butter 
melted.     Serve  in  a  covered  dish. 


EGGS,   PUDDINGS,   PIES,    &c. 

Fresh  eggs,  when  held  to  the  light,  will  look  clear,  and 
yolk  distinct ;  if  not  good  they  will  have  a  clouded  appear- 
ance; if  sta^.e  they  will  be  watery  when  broken.  Eggs  will 
keep  good  for  years,  if  prepared  as  follows :  One  pint  of 


EVERY  lady's  BOOK.  137 

coarse  salt  and  one  pint  of  unslacked  lime,  to  a  pail  of  wa- 
ter ;  keep  it  in  a  cellar  or  cool  place. 


Omelet  for  Breakfast.  —  Whip  up  some  fresh  eggs 
with  pepper  and  salt,  melt  some  lard  in  a  thick-bottomed 
frying-pan,  add  a  little  sauce  to  it,  and  when  hot,  put  in  the 
whipped  eggs,  let  them  fry  a  nice  brown,  slip  a  knife  around 
the  edges  while  frying;  when  done,  turn  it  out  on  a  dish,  it 
is  only  to  be  done  on  one  side.  Ham  chopped  fine  and  put 
to  the  eggs  before  cooking  is  very  much  liked  by  some.  The 
Spanish  add  chopped  onions. 


To  BOIL  Eggs.  —  Have  a  stewpan  of  water  boiling  hot, 
into  which  put  the  eggs  for  five  minutes  for  soft,  or  six  for 
hard.  Eggs  are  said  to  be  more  delicate  when  boiled  in  the 
following  manner :  Have  a  stewpan  of  boiling  water,  put  in 
the  eggs,  and  cover  close  for  five  minutes  without  putting 
the  stewpan  over  the  fire.  Or,  have  ready  a  stewpan  with 
clear  boiling  water,  add  to  it  a  little  salt,  break  the  eggs  one 
by  one  in  a  cup,  and  from  it  slip  them  into  the  boiling  wa- 
ter ;  when  the  white  is  set  take  them  up  with  a  skimmer, 
put  a  bit  of  butter  and  a  shake  of  pepper  on  each. 


Eggs  poached  in  Balls. — Put  three  pints  of  boiling 
water  in  a  stewpan,  set  it  on  coals,  stir  it  with  a  stick  until 
it  runs  round  quickly,  then  break  an  egg  into  the  middle  of 
it,  and  continue  to  turn  it  until  the  egg  is  cooked,  then  take 
it  up  with  a  skimmer  and  lay  it  in  a  hot  dish  until  you  have 
enou«ih. 


Frothed  Eggs.  —  Take  eight  eggs,  beat  the  yolks  of  all 
■with  four  of  the  whites  and  a  spoonful  of  water,  add  salt, 
12* 


138  EVERY    lady's   book. 

sugar,  and  the  juice  of  a  lemon;  fry  this  as  an  omelet,  whip 
the  four  remaining  whites  with  white  sugar  to  a  high  froth, 
and  lay  it  on  the  omelet,  then  brown  it  before  the  fire  or  in 
a  dutch-oven. 


Common  Custard.  —  Beat  four  or  five  eggs  to  a  froth 
and  stir  them  to  a  quart  of  milk;  sweeten  to  taste,  flavor 
with  peach  or  rose-water,  or  lemon  essence,  and  half  a  tea- 
spoonful  of  salt,  butter  a  tin  pan  and  pour  in  the  custard; 
bake  in  a  moderate  oven.  Try  it  when  it  is  done,  by  put- 
ting a  spoon-handle  into  the  middle  of  it;  if  it  comes  out 
clean  it  is  enough.  Or,  the  above  preparation  may  be  put 
into  buttered  cups,  and  set  into  a  shallow  pan  of  boiling  wa- 
ter, which  must  be  kept  boiling  until  they  are  done. 


Hasty  Pudding.  —  Put  some  milk  in  a  stewpan  over  a 
clear  fire ;  when  it  boils  stir  it  into  a  thick  batter  made  of 
flour,  to  make  a  stifi"  paste,  stir  it  all  the  time  with  a  wooden 
spoon  until  the  flour  is  cooked,  add  a  teaspoonful  of  salt,  dip 
a  mould  or  a  deep  dish  in  cold  water,  pour  the  pudding  into 
it  and  let  it  cool ;  when  sufficiently  so  to  keep  its  form,  turn 
it  out  on  a  flat  dish,  and  serve  with  butter  and  sugar  or  wine 
sauce. 


Wine  Sauce.  — Work  equal  quantities  of  butter  and  su- 
gar together  with  a  glass  of  wine,  add  more  or  less  wine  as 
you  prefer  it  liquid  or  otherwise;  a  little  nutmeg  is  an  im- 
provement. A  fine  sauce  may  be  made  of  sugar  and  butter, 
flavored  with  lemon  essence. 


Hard  Dumplings.  —  Mix  some  Indian  meal  and  a  little 
salt  into  a  paste  with  water,  form  it  in  balls  about  the  size 


EVERY    lady's   BOOK.  139 

of  an  apple,  flour  the  outside,  and  throw  them  into  boiling 
water  and  let  them  boil  for  three-quarters  of  an  hour  or  an 
hour;  when  served  with  boiled  meats  they  may  be  cooked 
with  the  same  water.  For  dessert  have  a  sweet  sauce  or  the 
following : 

Good  Sauce.  —  A  cup  of  molasses  made  hot  with  the 
juice  of  one  or  two  lemons  and  a  good  bit  of  butter. 


Paste  Pudding  with  Fruit.  —  Make  a  good  pie-paste, 
roll  it  out,  and  cover  the  whole  surface  with  ripe,  stewed,  or 
preserved  fruit,  then  begin  at  one  side  and  fold  or  roll  it 
neatly,  tie  it  in  a  pudding-cloth,  secure  each  end,  and  if  a 
large  one,  boil  it  for  two  hours.  Serve  with  butter  and  su- 
gar, or  a  sauce.  (See  Remarks  on  Mahing  and  Boiling 
Puddings.) 

Apple  Bread  Pudding. — Butter  a  deep  mould;  cut 
some  slices  of  bread  very  thin,  and  butter  them  with  sweet 
butter.  Lay  some  in  the  bottom  of  a  tin  basin  or  pudding- 
pan,  then  put  on  it  a  layer  of  peeled  and  sliced  apples,  strew 
them  with  sugar  and  chopped  lemon  peel,  and  then  another 
layer  of  buttered  bread,  and  so  fill  the  dish,  the  last  layer 
being  bread  —  bake.  It  may  be  made  in  this  way  without 
the  butter,  and  boiled  to  eat  with  a  sauce. 


Yeast  Dumplings.  —  Make  a  dough  with  a  tablespoon- 
ful  of  yeast,  a  little  salt,  and  warm  milk,  and  flour,  set  it  to 
rise.  When  light,  flour  your  hands,  and  make  it  in  balls 
the  size  of  a  common  apple,  throw  them  into  boiling  water, 
and  cover  close.  In  half  an  hour  take  them  up  with  a  skim- 
mer ;  serve  plain,  with  butter  or  with  a  sweet  sauce. 


140  EVERY   lady's   BOOK. 

Apple  Dumplings.  —  Pare,  core,  and  quarter  your  ap- 
ples ;  make  a  pie-crust,  roll  it  about  half  an  inch  in  thick- 
ness, lay  one  apple  in  a  piece  large  enough  to  cover  the  ap- 
ple, press  it  tight  around  the  apple  with  the  finger,  then 
throw  them  into  a  pot  of  boiling  water  for  an  hour.  Take 
them  up  with  a  skimmer ;  eat  with  sugar,  butter,  and  nutmeg. 

A  good  pudding  paste  may  be  made  of  sour  milk,  or  but- 
termilk and  water,  and  a  little  saleratus,  with  flour  enough 
to  make  a  good  paste. 


Apple  Fritters.  — Make  a  batter  of  sour  milk  and  wa- 
ter, each  half  a  pint,  a  bit  of  saleratus  the  size  of  a  small 
nutmeg,  a  little  salt,  and  flour  enough  to  make  a  batter,  then 
stir  it  thick  with  peeled  and  chopped  apples.  Have  a  thick 
frying-pan,  in  which  put  some  sweet  lard  with  a  little  salt. 
When  it  is  hot  put  in  the  batter  by  spoonfuls;  when  one  side 
is  a  good  brown,  turn  the  other;  as  they  are  done  take  them 
on  a  dish,  add  a  bit  of  butter  and  a  teaspoonful  of  sugar. 


Brown  Betsey  —  Apple  Pudding.  —  Chop  rich  apples 
with  an  equal  quantity  of  stale  bread;  when  fine  break  into 
them  two  eggs  (to  a  quart  or  more  of  the  apples  and  bread), 
grate  half  a  nutmeg  to  it,  add  a  large  tablespoonful  of  sweet 
butter  and  a  teacup  of  sugar;  stir  all  well  together,  then  add 
gradually  enough  milk  to  make  it  a  batter,  put  it  into  a  but- 
tered dish,  and  bake  for  three-quarters  of  an  hour  in  a  quick 
oven. 

Tliis  pu-Iding  may  be  made  without  the  eggs ;  the  sugar 
and  butter  may  be  omitted,  and  a  sauce  served  with  it  in- 
stead, either  of  plain  butter  and  sugar,  or  a  wine  sauce. 


EVERY    lady's    BOOK.  141 

Boiled  Apple  Pudding.  —  Make  the  batter  the  same  as 
for  apple  fritters,  stir  into  it  some  quartered  apples,  tie  it  la 
a  cloth,  and  boil  for  two  full  hours;  serve  with  a  sauce. 
Blackberries  may  be  used  fur  apples. 


Another  Batter  for  Apple  Fritters.  — Two  eggs,  a 
pint  of  milk,  and  half  a  pint  of  water,  with  flour  enough  to 
make  a  good  batter.     Finish  as  above. 


Rich  Pie  Crust. — To  two  pounds  of  flour  put  one 
pound  of  lard  or  beef-drippings.  Eub  the-  shortening  well 
into  the  flour,  add  to  it  a  large  teaspoonful  of  salt,  and  wa- 
ter enough  to  bind  it.  Take  as  much  as  will  cover  jour  pie, 
and  a  bit  of  butter  nearly  as  large,  work  these  two  together 
with  your  hands,  flour  your  cake-board  well,  and  roll  it  out. 
This  is  a  fine  flaky  paste. 


Apple  Pie.  —  Bub  a  pie-dish  over  with  butter,  line  ifc 
with  the  above-mentioned  paste,  peel  some  good  pippin  ap- 
ples, cut  them  in  small  pieces,  and  fill  the  pie-crust  as  evenly 
as  you  can ;  then  if  the  apples  are  tart,  strew  ifc  well  with 
sugar,  sprinkle  over  some  ground  cinnan^ion,  grate  half  a 
nutmeg  over,  cover  with  a  paste,  and  bake  until  the  crust  is 
well  done. 

The  above  recipe  will  answer  for  almost  any  ripe  fruit  pies, 
except  in  the  matter  of  spices.  Peaches,  cherries,  plums, 
and  such  fruits,  require  none. 


Apple  Tart. — Slice  some  nice  apples,  and  stew  them 
with  sugar  and  spice,  line  a  dish  with  puff  paste,  and  fill 
with  the  stewod  apples  (they  must  be  allowed  to  become  cold 


142  EVERY   lady's   BOOK. 

first) ;  finish  by  laying  strips  of  paste  in  bars  across  it,  and 
bake.     Apples  stewed  in  this  way  for  two  crusts  are  good. 


Custard  Pie.  —  Boil  a  pint  of  milk;  when  nearly  cold 
add  three  well  beaten  eggs,  a  little  essence  of  lemon;  a  pinch 
of  salt,  and  sugar  to  taste.  Grate  nutmeg  over,  and  bake 
with  an  under  crust. 


Peach  Pie,  or  Pudding.  —  Take  small  sized  peaches, 
not  very  ripe,  peel  them  without  cutting  them  up,  line  a 
square  pie  dish  with  paste,  strew  some  sugar  over  it,  then 
lay  in  the  peaches  rather  close  together,  then  strew  them 
plentifully  with  sugar,  pour  a  little  water  over,  dredge  on 
some  flour,  and  cover  with  a  good  paste  crust;  when  the 
crust  is  done,  it  is  enough. 

Or,  the  peaches  may  be  cut  in  rather  thick  slices.  Leav- 
ing the  stones  in  the  peaches  improves  the  flavor. 


Cherry  Pie.  —  Lay  a  crust  in  the  dish,  then  put  in  one 
or  two  layers  of  cherries  without  stoning  them,  sprinkle 
plentifully  with  sugar.  Dredge  flour  over,  add  some  water, 
and  cover  with  a  good  paste. 


Plum  Pie.  —  Stew  the  fruit  for  a  few  minutes,  sweeten 
them  well,  and  finish  as  any  other  pie. 

Currant,  grape,  &c.,  make  the  same  as  plum  pie. 


Rhubarb  Pie.  —  Let  the  stalks  be  of  a  good  size,  cut 
them  in  pieces,  and  stew  them  slowly  with  a  little  water, 
until  tender,  sweeten  and  grate  nutmeg  over,  and  finish  as 
other  pies  or  tarts. 


EVERY   lady's    BOOK.  143 

Dried  Fruit  Pie.  —  Dried  fruit  for  pies  should  be  put 
in  soak  before  stewiog,  then  stewed  till  tender;  have  plenty 
of  juice,  and  well  sweetened. 


Dried  Cherry  Pie.  —  Put  the  fruit  into  the  pie,  sweet- 
en much  more  than  for  eating.  If  not  plenty  of  juice,  add 
water,  and  a  dredging  of  flour.     Cover  and  bake. 


Apple  Puffs.  — Roll  out  a  good  crust,  have  some  apples 
peeled,  cored,  and  quartered.  Cut  the  paste  in  round  or 
square  pieces,  lay  some  of  the  quarters  on  it,  sprinkle  well 
with  sugar  and  spice,  and  fold  the  paste  around  it,  pressing 
the  edges  tightly  together,  lay  them  on  a  buttered  pan  and 
bake.     Peaches  may  be  done  in  the  same  manner. 


Superior  LeivION  Pie. — Boil  six  fine  fresh  lemons  in 
a  large  quantity  of  water,  until  a  straw  will  penetrate  the 
skin,  then  take  them  out  with  a  skimmer,  chop  them  fine, 
taking  care  to  take  out  all  the  pips  or  seeds;  when  perfect- 
ly fine,  dredge  over  them  two  teaspoonfulls  of  flour.  To 
one  pound  of  refined  or  crushed  sugar,  put  a  pint  of  water, 
and  set  it  to  boil;  when  it  is  a  nice  syrup,  stir  into  it  the 
chopped  lemon ;  continue  to  stir  it  until  it  thickens  and  be- 
comes clear,  then  set  it  by  in  an  earthen  or  china  dish  to 
cool ;  cover  a  pie-plate  with  a  rich  paste,  put  in  the  prepared 
lemon  as  thick  as  you  may  like,  cover  with  a  nice  puff  paste, 
and  bake.  Lemons  prepared  in  this  way  are  nice  for  many 
other  uses. 


Farina  Pudding.  —  Boil  a  quart  of  milk  in  a  vessel 
set  into  boiling  water;  then,  without  taking  it  from  the 


144  EVERY   lady's   BOOK. 

fire,  thicken  into  it  the  dry  farina  (stirring  it  all  the  time), 
enough  to  make  it  like  a  good  batter,  continue  to  stir  it  for 
a  few  mioutes;  have  the  yolks  of  three  eggs  beaten  smooth, 
and  pour  them  gradually  into  the  hot  farina,  beating  it  all 
the  time  as  you  would  beat  eggs,  then  rub  some  butter  over 
the  inside  of  a  china  pudding  dish,  pour  in  the  mixture,  and 
bake  in  a  hot  oven  until  the  top  is  a  nice  brown.  Serve 
hot  with  wine  sauce. 

Or  the  pudding  may  have  the  addition  of  a  small  table- 
spoonful  of  butter  and  sugar,  and  nutmeg,  or  any  other  fia* 
voring  to  taste.     A  glass  of  wine  may  be  added. 


BEEF  —  MUTTON, 
BEEF. 


142 


The  Sirloin. 

The  Rump,  or  Round. 

Edge-Bone. 

Buttock. 

Mouse  Buttock. 

Leg. 

Thick  Flank. 

Veiny  Piece. 

Plate  Piece. 

Ribs. 

Prime  Ribs. 

Chuck  Ribs. 

Brisket. 

Shoulder. 

Clod. 

Neck. 

Shin. 

Head. 


MUTTON. 


a     Leg. 

b     Shoulder. 

c    Loin. 


13 


d  Loin. 
e  Neck. 
/    Breast. 


146 


a 

Loin,  best  end. 

c 

Chump  End. 

b 

Fillet. 

d 

Kjiuckle. 

t 

Neck,  best  end. 

f 

Breast,  best  end. 

h 

Knuckle. 

9 

Blade-Bone. 

3 

Scrag,  or  Neck. 

I 

Breast. 

PORK. 


/ 


Ham. 

Hind  Loin. 
Fore  Leg. 
Spare  Rib. 
Hand,  or  Spring. 
BeUy. 


HINTS 


ETIQUETTE    OF   THE   DINNER   TABLE. 


Without  a  perfect  knowledge  of  the  art  of  Carving,  it  is  impos* 
eible  to  perform  the  honors  of  the  table  with  propriety  ;  and  noth- 
ing can  he  more  disagreeable  to  one  of  a  sensitive  disposition,  than 
to  behold  a  person  at  the  head  of  a  well-furnished  board,  hacking 
the  finest  joints,  and  giving  them  the  appearance  of  having  been 
gnawed  by  dogs. 

It  also  merits  attention  in  an  economical  point  of  view ;  a  bad 
carver  will  mangle  joints  so  as  not  to  be  able  to  fill  half  a  dozen 
plates  from  a  sirloin  of  beef  or  a  large  tongue ;  which,  besides  cre- 
ating a  great  difference  in  the  daily  consumption  of  families,  often 
occasions  disgust  in  delicate  persons,  causing  them  to  loathe  the 
provisions,  however  good,  which  are  set  before  them,  if  helped  in 
a  clumsy  manner. 

One  cannot,  therefore,  too  strongly  urge  the  study  of  this  useful 
branch  of  domestic  economy ;  and  I  doubt  not  that  whoever  pays 
due  attention  to  the  following  instructions,  will,  after  a  little  prac- 
tice, without  which  all  precept  is  unavailing,  speedily  acquire  the 
reputation  of  being  a  good  carver. 

A  few  hints  are  prefixed  on  the  etiquette  of  the  dinner-table, 
which  will  be  found  useful.  In  that,  however,  much  must  be  left 
to  a  quick  and  observant  eye,  and  a  determination  to  render  your- 
self as  agreeable  as  possible. 


J.43  HINTS    ON    ETIQUETTE. 

As  Host.  —The  important  day  on  which  you  feast  your  friends 
being  arrived,  you  will  be  duly  prepared  to  receive  the  first  detach- 
ment. It  were  almost  needless  to  observe  that  the  brief  interval 
before  dinner  is  announced,  may  be  easily  filled  up  by  the  common- 
place inquiries  after  health,  and  observations  on  the  weather ;  as 
the  company  increases,  pro\'ided  they  were  previously  acquainted, 
you  will  find  your  labors  in  keeping  up  the  conversation  very  agree- 
ably diminished. 

While  your  guests  are  awaiting  the  announcement  of  dinner,  it 
will  be  expedient  that  you  should  intimate  to  the  gentlemen  of  the 
party  as  unobtrusively  as  possible,  which  lady  you  wish  each  to 
take  in  charge,  that,  when  the  moment  arrives  for  your  adjourn- 
ment to  the  dining-room,  there  may  not  be  half  a  dozen  claimants 
for  the  honor  of  escorting  la  plus  belle  of  the  party,  while  some  plain 
demoiselle  is  under  the  painful  necessity  of  escorting  herself.  Such 
a  scene  as  this  should  be  carefully  provided  against  by  the  mode 
above  suggested. 

When  dinner  is  announced,  you  will  rise  and  request  your  friends 
to  proceed  to  the  dining-room,  yourself  leading  the- way,  in  compa- 
ny with  your  most  distinguished  female  visitor,  followed  immedi- 
ately by  the  hostess,  accompanied  by  the  gentleman  who  has  the 
best  claim  to  such  an  honor.  The  i  emainder  of  the  guests  then 
follow,  each  gentleman  accompanied  by  the  lady  previously  pointed 
out  to  him. 

-■  Arrived  at  the  dining-room,  you  ^vill  request  the  lady  whom  you 
conducted  to  take  her  seat  on  your  right  hand ;  then,  standing  behind 
your  chair,  you  will  direct  all  your  visitors  to  their  respective  seats. 

Having  taken  your  seat,  you  will  now  dispatch  soup  to  each  of 
your  guests,  from  the  pile  of  plates  placed  on  your  right  hand, 
without  questioning  any  whether  you  shall  help  them  or  not ;  but, 
dealing  it  out  silently,  you  will  first  help  the  person  at  your  right 
hand,  then  at  your  left,  and  so  throughout  the  table. 

You  will  not  ask  to  be  allowed  to  help  your  guests,  but  siipply  a 
plate  in  silence,  and  hand  it  to  your  servants,  who  will  ofi'er  it  to 
such  of  the  company  as  are  unprovided.  Never  offer  soup  or  fish 
a  second  time. 

If  a  dish  be  on  the  table,  some  parts  of  which  are  preferred  iA 


HINTS    ro:    ETIQUF.TT!!:.  149 

others,  acct)rding  to  tlie  taste  of  tlie  indiYidu<ils,  all  should  have  the 
opportunity  of  choice.  You  will  simply  ask  each  one  if  he  has  any 
preference  for  a  particular  part ;  if  he  replies  in  the  negative,  you 
are  not  to  repeat  the  question,  or  insist  that  he  must  have  a  pref- 
erence. 

Do  not  attempt  to  eulogize  your  dishes,  or  apologize  that  you  can- 
not recommend  them,  —  this  is  extreme  bad  tast« ;  as  also  is  the 
vaunting  of  the  excellence  of  your  wines,  &c.,  &c. 

Do  not  insist  upon  your  guests  partaking  of  particular  dishes. 
Do  not  ask  persons  more  than  once,  and  never  force  a  supply  upon 
their  plates.  It  is  ill-bred,  though  common,  to  press  an}^  one  to  eat ; 
and,  moreover,  it  is  a  great  annoyance  to  be  crammed  like  turkeys. 

Neither  send  away  your  plate,  nor  relinquish  your  knife  and  fork, 
till  your  guests  have  finished. 

Soup  being  removed,  the  gentleman  who  supports  the  lady  of 
the  house  on  her  right,  should  request  the  honor  of  taking  wine 
with  her ;  this  movement  will  be  the  signal  for  the  rest.  Should  he 
neglect  to  do  this,  you  must  challenge  some  lady. 

Until  the  cloth  be  removed,  you  must  not  drink  wine  except  with 
another.  If  you  are  asked  to  take  wine,  it  is  a  breach  of  etiquette 
to  refuse.  In  performing  this  ceremony  (which  is  very  agreeable 
if  the  wine  be  good),  you  catch  the  person's  eye,  and  bow  politely. 
It  is  not  necessary  to  say  anything. 

If  you  have  children,  never  introduce  them  after  dinner,  unless 
particularly  asked  for,  and  then  avoid  it  if  possible. 

Never  make  any  observations  to  your  servants  at  dinner,  other 
than  to  request  them  to  provide  you  with  what  you  require,  or  to 
take  away  that  which  may  be  removed. 

With  the  dessert,  you  will  have  a  small  plate,  two  wine-glasses, 
and  doyles,  placed  before  each  guest.  If  fresh  fruit  be  on  the  ta- 
ble, as  pears,  apples,  nectarines,  &c.,  a  knife  with  a  silver  or  silver- 
plated  blade  should  be  placed  by  the  side  of  each  plate ;  a  steel 
blade,  in  addition  to  being  discolored  by  the  juices,  imparts  an  un- 
pleasant flavor  to  the  fruit. 

As  Guest.  —  To  dine  out,  it  is  usually  understood  that  you  must 
be  invited ;  there  are,  however,  some  gentlemen,  who  have  attained 
to  that  high  degree  of  refinement  which  enable?  Va<?rik  to  dispense 

13* 


ioO  HINTS    ON    EIIQUETTE. 

with  such  a  stupid  ceremony.  They  drop  in  as  dinner  is  being 
served  up,  when  it  is  impossible  that  the  party  on  whom  they  in- 
trude can  do  other  than  to  request  them  to  stay  and  dine,  though 
we  suspect  he  has  a  much  stronger  inclination  to  kick  the  unwelcome 
guest  into  the  street. 

We  would  recommend  you  to  eschew  such  practices ;  but  when 
invited,  return  an  answer  in  plain  terms,  accepting  or  declining. 
If  you  accept,  be  there  at  the  appointed  time.  It  is  inconvenient, 
on  many  accounts,  to  yourself  and  to  your  friends,  either  to  be  too 
late  or  too  early. 

You  will  probably  have  to  wait  a  little  time  before  dinner  is  an- 
nounced. During  this  short  period  render  yourself  as  agreeable  as 
possible  to  the  assembled  company. 

Your  host  will  doubtless  point  out  to  you  the  lady  he  wishes  you 
to  escort  to  the  dining-room.  You  will  be  in  readiness  to  attend 
upon  her  the  moment  you  are  summoned  to  adjourn.  Offer  her 
your  right  arm,  and  follow  in  order.  Should  you  have  to  pass  down 
stairs,  you  will  give  the  lady  the  wall.  You  will  take  your  seat  at 
the  table  on  the  right  hand  of  the  lady  you  conducted. 

Being  seated,  soup  will  be  handed  round.  When  offered,  take  it ; 
but  if  you  prefer  fish,  pass  it  on  to  your  neighbor.  You  must  not 
ask  for  soup  or  fish  a  second  time ;  it  will  not  be  offered  —  you 
would  not  be  so  rude  or  selfish  as  to  keep  the  company  waiting  for 
the  second  course,  that  you  may  have  the  pleasure  of  demolishing 
a  double  portion  of  fish. 

Fish  must  be  eaten  with  a  silver  fork,  as  the  acid  in  the  sauce, 
acting  on  the  steel  of  an  ordinary  fork,  gives  an  unpleasant  flavor 
to  the  dish.  For  this  reason,  also,  a  knife  should  not  be  used  in 
eating  fish. 

If  asked  whether  you  have  a  preference  for  any  dish,  or  any  par- 
ticular part  of  a  dish,  answer  plainly  and  distinctly  as  you  wish. 

Pay  as  much  attention  to  your  companion  on  your  left,  as  polite- 
ness requires,  but  do  not  be  unnecessarily  officious.  People  do  not 
like  to  be  stared  at  when  eating. 

When  you  arc  helped  to  anything,  do  not  wait  until  the  rest  of 
the  company  are  proyided.  This  is  very  common  in  the  country, 
but  shows  a  wnnt  of  good  breeding 


HINTS    ON    ElIQUETTE.  151 

Do  not  allow  your  plate  to  be  o-^erloaded  with  a  multifarious 
assortment  of  vegetables,  but  rather  confine  yourself  to  one  kind. 
When  you  take  another  sort  of  meat,  or  a  dish  not  properly  a  veg- 
etable, you  must  change  your  plate. 

If  you  have  the  honor  of  sitting  on  the  right  hand  of  the  hostess, 
you  will,  immediately  on  the  removal  of  the  soup,  request  the  hon- 
or of  taking  wine  with  her. 

Finally,  to  do  all  these  things  well,  and  to  be  ait  fait  at  a  dinner 
party,  be  perfectly  at  your  ease.  To  be  at  ease  is  a  great  step  to- 
wards enjoying  your  own  dinner,  and  making  yourself  agreeable  to 
the  company.  Fancy  yourself  at  home,  performing  all  the  cere- 
monies without  any  apparent  effort.  For  the  rest,  observation  and 
your  own  judgment  will  be  the  best  guide,  and  render  you  perfect 
in  the  etiquette  of  the  dinner-table. 


CARVING 


In  carving,  your  knife  should  not  be  too  heavy,  but  of  a  sufficient 
size,  and  keen  edge.  In  using  it,  no  great  personal  strength  is  re- 
quired, as  constant  practice  will  render  it  an  easy  task  to  carve  the 
most  difficult  articles ;  more  depending  on  address  than  force. 

The  dish  should  be  sufficiently  near  to  enable  the  carver  to  reach 
it  without  rising,  and  the  seat  should  be  elevated  so  as  to  give  com- 
mand over  the  joint. 

Show  no  partiality  in  serving,  but  let  each  person  have  a  share 
of  such  articles  as  are  considered  best ;  for  however  you  conciliate 
the  one  you  favor,  you  must  bear  in  mind  that  you  make  enemies 
of  the  other  guests. 

FISH 

Requires  very  little  carving.  It  should  be  carefully  helped  with 
a  fish-slice,  which,  not  being  sharp,  prevents  the  flakes  from  being 
broken ;  and  in  salmon  and  cod  these  are  large,  and  add  much  to 
their  beauty.  A  portion  of  the  roe,  milt  or  liver,  should  be  given 
to  each  person. 


Mackerel. 


In  helping,  first  cut  oflf  the  head  at  1,  as  that  part  is  very  infe- 
rior and  unsavory ;  then  divide  down  the  back,  and  give  a  side  to 


CARVING. 


153 


each.  If  less  is  asked  for,  the  thickest  end,  which  is  the  most  choice, 
should  be  served.  Inquire  if  the  roe  is  liked.  It  may  be  found 
between  X  and  2.     That  of  the  female  is  hard,  of  the  male,  soft. 


Salmon 

Is  rarely  sent  to  the  table  whole,  but  a  piece  cut  from  the  middle 
of  a  large  fish,  which  is  the  best  flavored  part  of  it.  Make  an  in- 
cision along  the  back,  1-2,  and  another  from  5-6 ;  then  divide  the 
side  about  the  middle,  in  the  line  3-4 ;  cut  the  thickest  part,  be- 
tween 1-3,  2-4,  for  the  lean,  the  remainder  for  the  fat.  Ask  which 
is  preferred,  and  help  as  the  fancy  of  your  guests  may  demand. 
When  the  fish  is  very  thick,  do  not  venture  too  near  the  bone,  as 
there  it  has  an  ill  flavor,  and  is  discolored. 

In  paying  your  respects  to  a  whole  Salmon,  you  will  find  -the 
choice  parts  next  the  head,  the  thin  part  next ;  the  tail  is  consid- 
ered less  savory. 

Carp,  Perch  J  Haddock ,  Etc., 

will  be  easily  helped,  by  attending  to  the  foregoing  directions.  The 
head  of  the  Carp  is  esteemed  a  delicacy,  which  should  be  borne  in 
mind. 


Cod's  Head  and  Shoulders. 

Introduce  the  fish-slice  at  1,  and  cut  quite  through  the  back,  as 
far  as  2.     Then  help  pieces  from  between  3  and  4 ;  an4  with  each 


154 


CARVING. 


slice  give  a  portion  of  the  sound,  which  lines  the  under  side  of  the 
back  bone.  It  is  thin,  and  of  a  darker  color  than  the  other  part  of 
the  fish,  anO  is  esteemed  a  delicacy. 

Some  persons  are  partial  to  the  tongue  and  palate,  for  which  jou 
must  insert  a  spoon  into  the  mouth.  The  jelly  part  is  about  the 
jaw  ;  the  firm  part  within  the  head,  on  which  are  some  other  deli- 
cate pickings ;  the  finest  portions  may  be  found  about  the  shoulders. 


Turhot 

The  under  side  of  this  fish  is  the  most  esteemed,  and  is  placed 
uppermost  on  the  dish.  The  fish-slice  must  be  introduced  at  1,  and 
an  incision  made  as  far  as  2 ;  then  cut  from  the  middle,  which  is 
the  primest  part.  After  helping  the  whole  of  that  side,  the  upper 
part  must  be  attacked,  and  as  it  is  difl&cult  to  divide  the  back-bone, 
raise  it  with  the  fork,  while  you  separate  a  portion  with  the  fish- 
slice. This  part  is  more  solid,  and  is  preferred  by  some,  though  it 
is  less  delicate  than  the  under  side.  The  fins  are  esteemed  a  nicety, 
and  should  be  attended  to  accordingly. 

Brillsy  Soles,  Plaice, 

and  flat  fish  in  general,  may  be  served  in  the  same  manner  as  a 
Turbot. 

JOINTS. 

In  helping  the  more  fleshy  joints,  such  as  a  Sirloin  of  Beef,  Leg 
of  Mutton,  Fillet  of  Veal,  cut  thin  smooth  slices,  and  let  the  knife 
pass  through  to  the  bones  of  Mutton  and  Beef. 


CARVING.  155 

It  would  prevent  much  trouble,  if  the  joints  of  the  loin,  neck 
and  breast,  were  cut  through  by  the  butcher,  previous  to  the  cook- 
ing, so  that  when  sent  to  table,  they  may  be  easily  severed.  Should 
the  whole  of  the  meat  belonging  to  each  bone  be  too  thick,  one  or 
more  slices  may  be  taken  ofi*  between  every  two  bones. 

In  some  boiled  joints,  round  and  aitch-bone  of  beef  for  instance, 
the  water  renders  the  outsides  vapid,  and  of  course  unfit  to  be 
eaten ;  you  will  therefore  be  particular  to  cut  off  and  lay  aside  a 
thick  slice  from  the  top,  before  you  begin  to  serve. 

Saddle  of  Mutton, 

This  is  an  excellent  joint,  and  produces  many  nice  bits.  Cut  the 
whole  length  of  it  close  to  the  back-bone,  and  take  off  some  long 
thin  slices  in  that  direction.  The  upper  division  consists  of  lean ; 
the  fat  may  be  easily  got  at  by  cutting  from  the  left  side. 


Shoulder  of  Mutton. 

Cut  in  to  the  bone  at  the  line  1,  and  help  thin  slices  of  lean  from 
each  side  of  the  incision ;  the  prime  part  of  the  fat  lies  at  the  outer 
edge,  at  2. 

Should  more  meat  be  required  than  can  be  got  from  that  part, 
cut  on  either  side  of  the  line  3,  which  represents  the  blade-bone, 
and  some  good  and  delicate  slices  may  be  procured.  By  cutting  hor- 
izontally from  the  under  side,  many  ''nice  bits  "  will  be  obtained. 


15'a 


CARVING. 


Loin  of  Mutton. 

As  the  bones  of  this  joint  are  divided,  it  is  very  easily  managed. 
Begin  at  the  narrow  end,  and  take  off  the  chops ;  when  the  joints 
are  cut  through,  some  slices  of  meat  may  be  obtained  between  the 
bones. 

Haunch  of  Mutton 

consists  of  the  leg  and  part  of  the  loin,  cut  so  as  to  resemble  a 
haunch  of  venison.     It  must  be  helped  at  table  in  a  similar  manner. 


Leg  of  Mutton, 


The  finest  part  is  situated  in  the  center,  at  1,  between  the  knuckle 
and  further  end ;  insert  the  knife  there,  and  cut  thin,  deep  slices 
each  way,  as  far  as  in  2.  The  outside  rarely  being  very  fat,  some 
neat  cuts  may  be  obtained  off  the  broad  end,  at  3.  The  knuckle 
of  a  fine  leg  is  tender,  though  dry,  and  many  prefer  it,  although 
the  other  is  the  most  juicy.  There  are  some  good  cuts  on  the  broad 
end  of  the  back  of  the  leg,  from  which  slices  may  be  procured 
lengthways. 

The  cramp  bone  is  by  some  esteemed  a  delicacy  ;  to  get  it  out, 
cut  down  to  the  thigh  bone,  at  4,  and  pas3  the  knife  under  it  in  a 
£emi-circular  course,  to  5. 


CARVING. 


157 


~i^  ^ 


Fore   Quarter  of  Larnjb. 


First  divide  the  shoulder  from  the  scoven,  "vvhich  consists  of  the 
breast  and  ribs,  hj  passing  the  knife  under  the  knuckle,  in  the  di- 
rection of  1,  2,  3,  and  cutting  so  as  to  leave  a  fair  portion  of  meat 
on  the  ribs ;  lay  it  on  a  separate  dish  ;  the  other  part,  which,  after 
being  sprinkled  over  with  pepper  and  salt,  should  be  divided  in  the 
line  3-4.  This  will  separate  the  ribs  from  the  grisly  part,  and  you 
may  help  from  either,  as  may  be  chosen,  cutting  as  directed  by  the 
lines  5,  6. 

Shoulder  of  Lamh 

must  be  carved  like  a  shoulder  of  mutton,  of  which  it  is  a  minia- 
tui-e  edition. 

Leg  of  Lamh. 

Follow  the  directions  given  for  leg  of  mutton,  at  page  156. 

Lohi  of  Lamh, 

may  be  helped  similar  to  a  loin  of  mutton.  See  page  156.  This, 
and  the  two  foregoing,  being  small  joints,  should  be  helped  sparingly, 
as  there  is  very  little  meat  on  them,  especially  when  first  in  season. 


Aitch-Bone  of  Beef 

Cut  off  and  lay  aside  a  thick  slice  from  the  entire  surface,  as 
marked  1-2,  then  help.     There  are  two  sorts  of  fat  to  this  joint, 
14 


IL 


CARVING. 


and,  as  tastes  differ,  it  is  necessary  to  learn  which  is  preferred. 
The  solid  fat  will  be  found  at  3,  and  must  be  cut  horizontally ;  the 
softer,  which  resembles  marrow,  at  the  back  of  the  bone,  below  4. 
A  silver  skewer  should  be  substituted  for  the  one  which  keeps  the 
meat  properly  together  while  boiling,  and  it  may  be  withdrawn 
when  you  cut  down  to  it. 

Round  of  Beef, 

This  joint  is  so  very  easy  to  attend  to,  that  we  have  not  deemed 
it  necessary  to  give  a  drawing  of  it ;  it  only  requires  a  steady  hand 
and  a  sharp  knife.  The  upper  surface  being  removed,  as  directed 
for  the  aitch-bone  of  beef,  carve  thin  slices,  and  give  a  portion  of 
fat  with  each. 

You  must  cut  the  meat  as  even  as  possible,  as  it  is  of  conse- 
quence to  preserve  the  beauty  of  its  appearance. 


Sirloin  of  Beef 

There  are  two  modes  of  helping  this  joint.  The  better  way  is  by 
carving  long  thin  slices  from  1  to  2  ;  the  other  way  is  by  cutting  it 
across,  which,  however,  spoils  it.  The  most  tender  and  prime  part 
is  in  the  direction  of  the  line  3  ;  there  will  also  be  found  some  deli- 
cate fat,  part  of  which  should  be  given  with  each  piece. 

RiU  of  Beef 

may  be  carved  similar  to  the  sirloin,  always  commencing  at  the  thin 
end  of  the  joint,  and  cutting  long  slices,  so  as  to  give  fat  and  lean 
together. 


CARVING. 


159 


A  Breast  of  Veal 
Is  composed  of  the  ribs  and  brisket,  which  must  be  separated  by 
cutting  through  the  line  1-2 ;  the  latter  is  the  thickest,  and  has 
gristles.     Divide  each  portion  into  convenient  pieces  and  proceed 
to  help. 

1 


A   Tongue. 
Cut  nearly  through  the  middle,  at  the  line  1,  and  take  thin  slices 
from  each  side.     The  fat  is  situated  underneath,  at  the  root  of  the 
tongue. 


A  Calf^s  Head. 
Cut  thin  slices  from  1  to  2,  and  let  the  knife  penetrate  to  the 
bone.  At  the  thick  part  of  the  neck  end,  3,  the  throat  sweetbread 
is  situated ;  carve  slices  from  3  to  4,  and  help  with  the  other  part. 
Should  the  eye  be  asked  for,  it  must  be  extracted  with  the  point  of 
the  knife,  and  a  portion  given.  The  palate,  esteemed  a  delicacy, 
is  situated  under  the  head,  and  some  fine  lean  may  be  found  by  re- 
moving the  jaw-bone ;  portions  of  each  of  these  should  be  helped 
round. 


160 


CARVrSG. 


A  Lorn  of  Veal 

should  be  jointed  previous  to  being  sentwto  table,  when  each  division 
may  be  easily  cut  through  with  a  knife.  The  fat  surrounds  the  kid- 
ney, and  portions  of  each  should  be  given  with  the  other  parts. 


Fillet  of  Veal 
resembles  a  round  of  beef,  and  should  be  carved  similar  to  it,  in 
thin  and  very  smooth  slices,  off  the  top.     Cut  deep  into  the  flap, 
between  1  and  2,  for  the  stuffing,  and  help  a  portion  of  it  to  each 
person. 

Slices  of  lemon  are  always  served  with  this  dish. 


(^ 


Roast  Pig. 

As  this  is  usually  divided  as  above,  before  sent  to  table,  little  re- 
mains to  be  done  by  the  carver.  First  separate  a  shoulder  from  the 
body,  and  then  the  leg ;  divide  the  ribs  into  convenient  portions, 
and  send  around  with  a  sufficiency  of  the  stuffing  and  gravy.  Many 
prefer  the  neck  end  between  the  shoulders,  although  the  ribs  are 
considered  the  finest  part ;  but  as  this  all  depends  on  taste,  the 
question  should  be  put.     The  ear  is  reckoned  a  delicacy. 

Should  the  head  not  be  divided,  it  must  be  done,  and  the  brains 
taken  out,  and  mixed  with  the  gravy  and  stuffing. 

A  Loin  of  Pork 

is  cut  up  in  the  same  manner  as  a  loin  of  mutton.     See  page  156, 


CARVING. 


161 


Leg  of  Porlc. 

Commence  carving  about  midway,  between  the  knuclde  and  fur- 
ther end,  and  cut  thin  deep  slices  from  either  side  of  the  line  1. 
For  the  seasoning  in  a  roast  leg,  lift  it  up,  and  it  will  be  found  un- 
der the  skin  at  the  large  end. 

Hand  of  Porh. 

Cut  thin  slices  from  this  delicate  joint,  either  across  near  the 
knuckle,  or  from  the  blade-bone,  as  directed  for  a  shoulder  of  mut- 
ton. This  forms  a  nice  dish  for  a  tete-a-tete  dinner ;  there  is  not 
sufficient  for  a  third  person. 


Ham. 

The  tiSTial  mode  of  carving  this  joint  is  by  long  delicate  slices^ 
through  the  thick  fat,  in  the  direction  of  1-2,  laying  open  the  bone 
at  each  cut,  v/hich  brings  you  to  the  prime  part  at  once.  A  more 
saving  way  is  to  commence  at  the  knuckle  and  proceed  onwards. 

Some  persons  take  out  a  round  piece  at  3,  and  enlarge  the  hole, 
by  cutttng  thin  circular  slices,  with  a  sharp  knife.  This  keeps  the 
meat  moist,  and  pre^^rves  the  gravy^  but  seldom  looks  handsome, 

14* 


162  CARVING. 

POUIiTRY,    GA3IE,  ETC. 

The  carying-knife  for  poultry  is  smaller  and  lighter  thr.n  the 
meat  carver ;  the  point  is  more  peaked,  and  the  handle  longer. 

In  cutting  up  a  turkey,  goose,  duck,  or  wild  fowl,  more  prime 
pieces  may  be  obtained  by  carving  slices  from  pinion  to  pinion, 
without  making  wings ;  this  is  an  advantage  when  your  party  is 
large,  as  it  makes  the  bird  go  further. 


A  Fowl 

It  will  be  more  convenient,  in  carving  this,  to  take  it  on  your 
plate,  and  lay  the  joints  as  divided,  neatly  on  the  dish.  Fix  your 
fork  in  the  middle  of  the  breast,  and  take  the  wing  off  in  the  direc- 
tion of  1-2  ;  divide  the  joint  at  1,  lift  up  the  pinion  with  your  fork, 
and  draw  the  wing  towards  the  leg,  which  will  separate  the  fleshy 
part  more  naturally  than  by  the  knife ;  cut  between  the  leg  and 
body  at  3  to  the  bone,  2,  give  the  blade  a  sudden  turn,  and  the  joint 
will  break  if  the  fowl  is  not  old.  When  a  similar  operation  is  per- 
formed on  the  other  side,  take  off  the  merrythought,  by  cutting  in 
to  the  bone  at  4,  and  turning  it  back,  which  will  detach  it ;  next 
remove  the  neck  bones  and  divide  the  breast  from  the  back,  b}^  cut- 
ting through  the  whole  of  the  ribs,  close  to  the  breast.  Turn  up 
the  back,  press  the  point  of  the  knife  about  half  way  between  the 
neck  and  rump,  and  on  raising  the  lower  end  it  will  separate  easily. 
Turn  the  rump  from  you,  take  off  the  sidesmen,  and  the  operation 
is  complete. 

The  breast  and  wings  are  the  most  delicate  parts,  but  the  leg  is 
more  juicy  in  a  young  bird.  Great  care  should  be  taken  to  cut  the 
wings  as  handsome  as  possible. 


CARVING.  163 

A  Partridge 

is  cut  up  in  the  same  manner  as  a  fowl,  only  on  account  of  the  small- 
ness  of  the  bird,  the  merrythought  is  seldom  divided  from  the  breast. 
The  wings,  breast,  and  merrythought,  are  the  finest  parts  of  it, 
but  the  wing  is  considered  the  best,  and  the  top  of  it  is  reckoned 
the  most  delicious  morsel  of  the  whole. 


A   Pheasant 

Fix  your  fork  in  the  center  of  the  breast,  and  make  incisions  to 
the  bone  at  1-2,  then  take  off  the  leg  in  the  line  3-4,  and  the  wing 
at  3-5  ;  sever  the  other  side  in  the  same  manner,  and  separate  the 
slices  you  had  previously  divided  on  the  breast.  In  taking  off  the 
wings,  be  careful  not  to  venture  too  near  the  neck,  or  you  will  hit 
on  the  neck  bone,  from  which  the  wing  should  be  divided.  Pass 
the  knife  through  the  line  6,  and  under  the  merrythought  towards 
the  neck,  which  will  detach  it.  The  other  parts  may  be  served  as 
directed  for  a  fowl. 

The  breast,  wings,  and  merrythought,  are  the  most  delicate  parts, 
although  the  leg  has  a  high  flavor. 

A   Turkey, 

The  finest  parts  of  this  bird  are  the  breast  and  wings ;  the  latter 
will  bear  some  delicate  slices  being  taken  off.  After  the  four  quar- 
ters are  severed,  the  thighs  must  be  divided  from  the  drum-sticks, 
which,  being  tough,  should  be  reserved  till  last.  In  other  respects, 
a  turkey  must  be  dealt  with  exactly  as  recommended  for  a  fowl,  ex- 
cept that  it  has  no  merrythought. 

Give  a  portion  of  the  stuffing,  or  forced-meat,  which  is  inside 
the  breast,  to  each  person. 


164  CARVING. 

Woodcocks,  Grouse,  Etc, 

are  carved  similar  to  a  fowl,  if  not  too  small,  Tvlien  they  may  be 
cut  in  quarters,  and  helped. 

Snipes,  being  smaller,  should  be  divided  in  halves. 


Pijeons. 

The  usual  way  of  carving  these  birds  is  to  insert  the  knife  at  1, 
and  cut  to  2  and  3,  when  each  portion  may  be  divided  into  two  pie- 
ces, and  helped.  Sometimes  they  are  cut  in  halves,  either  across 
or  down  the  middle ;  but  as  the  lower  part  is  thought  the  best,  the 
first  mode  is  the  fairest. 

Should  they  be  very  large  and  fine,  they  may  be  served  like 
fowls. 


A    Goose. 

Take  off  the  wing  by  putting  the  fork  into  the  small  end  of  the 
pinion,  and  press  it  close  to  the  body ;  divide  the  joint  at  1  with 
the  knife,  carrying  it  along  as  far  as  2.  Remove  the  leg,  by  cut* 
ting  in  the  direction  of  2-8,  and  divide  the  thigh  from  the  drum- 
stick ;  then  sever  the  limbs  on  the  other  side,  and  cut  some  long 
slices  from  each  side  of  the  breast,  between  the  lines  a  and  b. 

To  get  at  the  stuffing,  the  apron  must  be  removed,  by  cutting 
from  4  to  6  by.  3.  It  is  rarely  necessary  to  cut  up  the  whole  of  the 
goose,  unless  the  company  is  large ;  but  the  merrythought  may  be 
taken  off.  There  are  two  sidebones  by  the  wing,  which  may  be  cut 
off,  as  likewise  the  back  ond  lower  side-bones.  The  best  pieces 
are  the  breast  and  thighs* 


OARVINQ. 


166 


A  Duck, 

Remove  the  legs  and  wings  as  directed  above  for  a  goose,  and  cut 
some  slices  from  each  side  of  the  breast.  The  seasoning  will  bo 
found  under  the  flap  as  in  the  other  bird.  Should  it  be  necessary, 
the  merrythought,  sidebones,  &c.,  can  be  detached  in  the  same 
manner  as  recommended  for  a  fowl. 


Haunch  of  Venhon. 

First  let  out  the  gravy,  by  cutting  in  to  the  bone  across  the  joint 
at  1-2 ;  then  turn  the  broad  end  towards  you,  make  as  deep  an  in- 
cision as  you  can  from  3  to  4,  and  help  thin  slices  from  each  side. 
The  greater  part  of  the  fat,  which  is  much  esteemed,  will  be  found 
on  the  left  side ;  and  those  who  carve  must  take  care  to  proportion 
both  it  and  the  gravy  to  the  number  of  the  company. 


Hare. 

Insert  the  point  of  the  knife  inside  the  shoulder  at  1,  and  divide 
all  the  way  down  to  the  rump  at  2 ;  do  the  same  on  the  other  side, 
and  you  will  have  the  hare  in  three  pieces.  Pass  the  knife  under 
the  rise  of  the  shoulder  at  2-1,  to  take  it  off.  The  legs  may  be 
severed  in  a  similar  manner ;  then  behead  it,  cut  off  the  ears  close 
to  the  roots,  and  divide  the  upper  from  the  lower  jaw.  Next  place 
the  former  flat  on  a  plate,  put  the  point  of  the  knife  into  the  fore- 


166  CARVING. 

head,  and  divide  it  through  the  center,  down  to  the  nose.  Cut  the 
back  into  convenient  portions,  lay  the  pieces  neatly  on  the  dish, 
and  proceed  to  serve  the  company,  giving  some  stuffing  (which 
will  be  found  in  the  inside),  and  gravy  to  each  person. 

The  prime  parts  are  the  back  and  legs ;  the  ears  are  considered  a 
luxury  b}^  some,  as  are  the  head  and  brains ;  they  may  be  distrib- 
uted to  those  that  like  them. 

Should  the  hare  not  be  very  tender,  it  will  be  difficult  to  divide 
the  sides  from  the  back,  but  take  off  the  legs,  by  cutting  through 
the  joints,  which  you  must  endeavor  to  hit.  You  will  then  be  able 
to  cut  a  few  slices  from  each  side  of  the  back.  Next  dissever  the 
shoulders,  which  are  called  the  sportman's  joints,  and  are  preferred 
by  many.     The  back,  &c.,  may  then  be  carved  as  directed  above. 

Rahhit, 

The  directions  for  cutting  up  a  hare  will  be  amply  sufficient  to 
enable  the  carver  to  dispose  of  this  animal.  The  best  part  is  the 
shoulders  and  back,  which  must  be  divided  into  three  or  four  pie- 
ces, according  to  its  size.  The  head  should  not  be  given  unless 
asked  for. 


VALUABLE    BOOKS 

PUBLISH  F.D    BY 

KIGGINS   &  KELLOGG, 

New  York. 

HOOD'S  CHOICE  WORKS.     With  Comie  n. 

lustrations.     In  4  volumes.     Large  12mo,     Cloth, 

HOOD'S  PROSE  AND   VERSE. 

1  volume.     Large  12mo,     Cloth  and  paper, 

HOOD'S  WHIMSICALITIES,    with  Comic  lu 

lustrations,     1  volume.     Large  12mo.     Cloth  and  paper, 

HOOD'S  WHIMS  AND  ODDITIES.  Comic 

Illustrations.     1  volume.     Large  12mo.     Cloth  and  paper, 

HOOD'S  UP  THE  RHINE.     With  Comic  n- 

lustrations,     1  volume.     Large  12mo,     Cloth  and  paper, 

HOOD'S  POEMS. 

1  volume.     Large  12mo,     Cloth  and  paper., 

UOOD^S    OWN.       With  Comic  Illustrations.     \  volume. 
Large  12mo,     Cloth  and  paper. 

Of  all  the  humorists,  Hood  was  the  most  practical.  There  is  hardly  a  verse  in 
which  some  touches  of  heart,  or  some  play  of  fancy,  did  not  beckon  the  laughing 
reader  into  far  other  worlds  than  the  jester's. — London  AthencBum. 

Thomas  Hood,  a  most  admirable  fellow,  with  a  warm  heart,  a  sound  head,  a  humor 
quaint  and  original,  a  disposition  amiable  and  facetious,  and  a  boon  companion ;  a 
man  of  taste,  feeling,  and  genius. — Biackioood. 

No  man  of  the  present  century  at  least  has  signalized  himself  so  much  as  a  hu- 
morist as  the  author  of  these  papers.  That  he  had^a  genius  at  once  original  and  power- 
ful, admits  of  no  question;  but  many  of  his  finest  things  require  to  be  studied 
before  they  will  reveal  the  sparkling  treasures  that  are  hid  in  i\iQm.— Albany  Argus, 

Where  can  be  found  a  speedier  remedy  for  the  "blues"  than  in  any  of  Tom  Hood's 
works  ? —  Worcester  Palladiwrn, 

He  who  has  not  yet  read  Tom  Hood,  and  felt  himself  transported  into  a  new  world, 
where  the  most  brilliant  wit  contends  for  mastery  with  the  keenest  satire  and  the 
most  profound  wisdom,  may  congratulate  himself  upon  yet  having  reserved  for  his 
future  enjoyment  a  new  pleasure. — Cincinnati  Atlas. 

In  these  days,  when  cares  gather  about  us,  we  are  ready  to  welcome  a  volume  by 
Hood  as  the  best  antidote  we  can  have.  Verily,  for  light-hearted,  innocent  mirth— a 
mirth,  too,  which  often  touches  the  heart  as  well  as  the  imagination,  Hood  has  left 
no  successor. — Albany  Express. 

Glorious  Tom  Hood  1  The  man  who  can  read  his  writings  without  laughing  till  he 
cries,  is  not  the  man  we  took  him  for.  The  peculiarity  of  Hood's  humor  is,  that  it 
is  so  quiet.  Though  he  keeps  every  one  else  in  a  roar,  yet  you  can  see  himself 
sitting  back  in  his  arm-chair,  betraying  by  nothing  but  a  twinkle  of  the  eye,  and  an 
occasional  twitch  about  the  mouth,  that  he  is  conscious  of  saying  any  thing  droll. 
H©  was  the  greatest  and  best  punster  in  tlie  Avorld,  and  these  books  aio  full  of  play 


Kiggins  and  Kellogg''s  Publications, 


upon  words;  but  the  fun,  even  of  his  puns,  consists  far  more  in  the  way  in  which 
they  are  introduced  than  in  the  double-enlendres  themselves.  Underlying  all  his 
humor,  also,  there  is  a  vein  of  kind  feeling  that  adds  greatly  to  its  charm. — Metropo 
liian  Magazine. 

Every  thing  from  the  pen  of  Tom  Hood  bears  the  Impress  of  his  peculiar  genius. 
"Whether  comical  or  serious,  social  or  morose,  didactic  or  desultory,  it  mast  always 
be  in  his  own  way.  If  he  paints  a  rainbow,  it  will  bo  shaded  as  no  one  else  would 
do  it.  If  he  describes  a  landscape  or  a  sea-view,  it  is  at  once  apparent  that  he  has 
looked  at  it  through  a  brace  of  eyes  differently  constituted  from  those  with  which 
ordinary  mortals  are  endowed.  *  *  *  jn  the  midst  of  the  humor  of  these  volume* 
there  is  a  vein  of  philosophy  that  well  repays  the  working. — Budget, 

POEMS  AND  BALLADS. 

By  Mary  Howitt.     1  volume.     12mo. 
"We  cannot  recommend  too  highly  this  publication. — Albion, 
Her  poems  are  always  gi-aceful  and  beautiful.— J/z'S.  S.  C.  Hall, 

LONDON:   Its  Literary  and  Historical   Oun 

riosities.      By  F.  Saunders,  author  of  ^^  Salad  for  the  Sol- 
itary."*^     With  numerous  Engravings.      12mo.     Cloth. 

There  is  no  work  written,  to  our  knowledge,  which  furnishes  a  more  authentic 
introduction  to  the  heart  of  the  English  capital,  than  this  attractive  volume. — 
Tribiitie. 

It  is  an  excellent  book,  just  such  a  book  as  every  American  who  goes  to  London 
should  take  with  him,  and  which  any  one  can  read  with  profit  even  if  ho  has  no 
intention  to  visit  London. — Dr.  Baird. 

We  have  lingered  over  its  pages  with  great  interest,  and  with  a  consciousness  of 
acquiring  knowledge  of  the  things  and  places  it  describes,  though  we  saw  them  not, 
save  in  some  of  the  truthful  drawings  scattered  through  tfie  volume.  It  is  the  best 
guide  extant,  and  will  be  a  standard  work  for  many  years  to  come. — New  York 
CommercidL  Advertiser. 

An  excellent  book  on  the  subject.  It  is  the  best  manual  we  know  of. — New  York 
Evening  Post. 

This  little  volume  with  its  profuse  illustrations,  would  give  the  stay-at-home  reader 
a  better  notion  of  that  wondrous  city  than  an  actual  visit  would  be  apt  to  furnish.— 
New  York  Times. 

A  more  tasteful  and  readable  volume,  on  this  subject,  cannot  be  found.— {?Aio 
State  Journal. 

THE  STORY  OF  MONT  BLANC. 

By  Albert  Smith.     Vlmo. 

This  book  is  written  in  a  very  spirited  and  sprightly  style,  every  line  sparkling 
with  life,  and  abounding,  too,  li  valuable  information.  Nobody  should  neglect  to 
read  tliis  story  of  Mont  Blanc,  who  lias  ever  visited  the  Alps  or  ever  intends  to  visit 
them,  or  who  finds  pleasure  in  Alpine  scenery,  or  who,  in  default  of  opportunities  for 
travelling,  can  enjoy  the  descriptions  of  one  of  the  inost  enthusiastic,  and  yet  most 
sensible  of  travellers. — Boston  Traveller. 

The  very  mention  of  that  frightful  mountain  of  shining  and  slippery  ice  makes  us 
shudder  witii  undefinable  terror.  The  narrative  of  Mr.  Smith  is  full  of  interest  from 
the  preface  to  the  close  of  the  \joo\^.—Soutkern  Literary  Messenger. 

This  book  is  an  admirable  key  to  all  the  wonders  of  the  sunlight  and  moonlight 
views  of  tliis  snow-capped  monarch  of  mountains. — Saturday  Courier. 

The  thought  of  the  undertaking  is  full  of  excitement,  and  Mr.  Smith  has  described 
It  in  a  most  vivid  and  engaging  manner.  It  is  a  decided  novelty  in  the  works  of 
i\'Q,VQ\.— Evangelist. 

It  contains  about  everv  thing  that  most  people  will  care  to  know  concerning  Mom 
Blanc.  It  is  a  book  that  nobody  can  read  without  ieep  interest.  —  Pi^riiaw 
Recorder 


I  VALUABLE   BOOKS 

'^^  PUBLISHED  BY 

g  KIGGINS    AND    KELLOGG, 

W  123  &  125  William  St.,  N.  Y. 

¥  KIpSo'e^N^^^'p^'^-    ,^^^/-12mo.    Goth  and  extra  binding. 

§i  HOOD'I  OWM     4^f?  ^^^'^-n-    l""?^'    ^argel2ino.    Paper  and  cloth.       ° 

1  nooD^  SnPM<5       9  ''^^'iS '""'*^^^^^^^      ^^'^^^    I^aper  and  cloth. 

\f/  i^^^^  ^  POEMS.    12mo.    Paper  and  cloth. 

i    HOoSlwiimsyi^TT^-,^  12mo.    Paper  a«d  cloth. 

M    fj^^^i^  ^  ^^  "IMSICALITIES.    Comic  illustrations.    12mo     Panpr  nnri  nint>. 

i       '^^c?o?h^'''''''^  ^""'^  ODDITIES.     Comic   illustrat'n's.    Xo.'"  Paper  a-i 

1   S^A^^^-.?)' ?i^^'^  ^^^^^'^-    By  Albert  SmTii.    12mo. 

M    P^i'i^S^  AND  POEMS.     By  Mary  IIotvitt.    12mo. 

i    A  VOot"*  to  Yotm?  ^  A^.  Historical  Curiodties.    By  F.  Saunders. 

^    A  VOICE  TO  THE  MARRIED.    By  Rev.  .7.  M.  Austin.    18mo 

i    ^^^^iiy^A'^^S  OP  THE  LAWVJE  KI.NDNESS.    By  Bey.  G.  W.  Montgov. 

^    SS5??N'^  SYSTEM  OF  GEOGRAPHICAL  QUESTIONS     12mo 

M    PERSON'S  WEEKLY  SCHOOL  REPORT.    18mo. 

g    PAUL  AND  VIRGINIA.    ISmo.    Cloth. 

g    EXILES  OF  SIBERIA.    ISmo.    Cloth. 

M    ^^'^^'^^  .^^?^7S  BOOK.    A  revised  and^eatly  improved  edition  of  Mrs   Crow- 

m  EX  s  admirable  Cook  Book.    12mo.P>aper  and  cloth 

I    ^'''^'pfnio;;;^''''  "^^^'^  OFPRACTIcJE  loRMS;  orf-Business  Man's  Com- 

^  Choice  Juveniles- 

g  THE  SNOW  STORM.    By  Mrs.  Gore.    Illustrated.    ISmo 

^  THE  NEW-YEAR'S  DAY.    By  Mr,^.  Gore.    Illustrated      ISmo 

i  ?Sl?^.?^i^?E^.f'^'U^^^^  "^S^^^i^^^-    IllivstratlT  18mo. 

i  18mo  lIlilALTHFUL    AMUSEMENTS  AND  EXERCISES. 

I  ^"^TS  ^Smo^^'^^^"^"  ""'   Perseverance  against  HI  Fortune.    And  other 

^  ,^JIS  TRAVELER'S  STORY ;  or,  The  Villa-e  Bnr-room.    And  oLh-r Tde.     1  Smo 

g  THE  LITTLE  KEEPSAKE.    A  Poetic  Gih  for  Childrei^2Co 

i  THE  GUILDS  STORY  BOOK.    24mo.      '' '^^ '^"'^'^'^^*    '^^°^«- 

I  ^f^;,*  :pAc  ate  ^6oA-if  for  C/tildren  abound  in  j^Ieasing  Stories,  Poems,  &c 

i  of  a  purely  moral  and  imtructive  nature,  and  art  the  most  beautifujiy 

fi  Illustrated  Juveniles  in  market.  J"*'  if 


Contaiuing 


Redfield's  Series  of  Toy  Books- 


four  sizes  and  t^yelvo  numbers  of  each  size,  making  forty-ei-^ht  difTcr- 

I    THE  ONE  CENT  KUMEe"'  iT^'o '^""'■"'  ^"^  ^"^^  '"  '"'''''''''■ 
1    THE  BOYS'  AND  GIRLS'  PRIMER.    18mo. 
;    THE  AMERICAN  ILLUSTRATED  PRIMER.    12mo. 
ALMANACS,  English  and  German,  a  great  variety. 
DIARIES,  annually,  a  great  variety  of  sizes  and  styles  of  bindio"- 
K.  &  K.  also  manufacmre  TIME  BOOKS,  various  sizes  BILL  BOOKS   DHAFr 
and    NOTE    BOOKS,    SHIPPING    RECEIPT    and    BILL    OF    T  AmvA 
BOOKS,   SCRAP  BOOKS,    HERBARIUMS    BOOK-KEEPIN^J    B^lxK^ 
COMPOSITION,  EXERCISE  AND  WRITING  B00KS^f>r7choofs^^^^^^^ 
variety,  and  BLANK  BOOKS,  MEMORANDUMS  and  PA^  BOOKS  ^  ^ 


Boston  Public  Library 
Central  Library,  Copley  Square 

Division  of 
Reference  and  Research  Services 


The  Date  Due  Card  in  the  pocket  indi- 
cates the  date  on  or  before  which  this 
bock  should  be  returned  to  the  Library. 

Please  do  not  remove  cards  from  this 
pocket. 


....,_  - - -v:;^>-,  ;:^J^<i•e^-A^o;^v•;:^^:;v^3o^^ 


