-■!'^itol^|'4^;:i^l!^;'^l:••i^-!l:-^^>:,v;'^^ 


El-.,  -If  M' J  ;i-(i  ''''ill  ,1.;;  1  •' !,■■  ■"';!  „■",■; 


4  c?. 


t  « 


W^/    4 

'^•O^ 

40^ 


■^./^Tr.-T\/^    V^^^^V  V^^-^^'.y 


^^ 


°o         .,4.*    .«J^^  ^^^         rP*.»l^.    ' 


B    M  0 


♦  <^  ^. 


■"^/^'S^"'  %^ 


o«» 


*J^    4*^ 


EXCELSIOR 

COOK    BOOK 

AND 

7^  /     Housekeepers  Aid; 


CONTAINING  RECEIPTS  FOB 


COOKING  ALL  KINDS  OF  MEATS,  FOWL,  FISH ; 


AND  MAKING 


GRAVIES,    SOUPS,    SAUCES,    BREAD,    CAKES,    PASTRY,    PUDDINGS, 
CUSTARDS,  PRESERVES,  ESSENCES; 


CAI^ISrmG  FEUIT ; 


THE  MAKING  OF 


BUTTER,    CHEESE,    SOAPS;    THE    ART    OF    DYEING; 
ANTIDOTES  FOR  POISON; 

COOKERY  FOR  THE   SICK; 

FAMILY    PHYSICIAN,  GARDENING,  HOUSE-PLANTS,  THE    TOILET; 
AND  MANY  MISCELLANEOUS  RECEIPTS. 


BY 


/^  fs-  Mrs.  LAURA  TROWBR. 

/ 


NEW    YORK:    "'^>»g£gASH^ 
OAKLEY,    MASONT    &    CO., 
21    Murray   Street. 
1870. 


/>""] 


< 


^H>^^ 


Entered,  according  to  Act  of  Congress,  in  the  year  1870,  by 

MRS.    LAURA  TROWBRIDGE, 

In  the  Clerk'3  Office  of  the  District  Court  of  the  United  States  for  the  Southern 
District  of  New- York. 


PEEFAOE. 


Ijf  presenting  this  Avork  to  the  public,  the  author 
ventures  to  hope  that  she  is  offering  a  book  which  will 
meet  the  demands  of  housekeepers  in  any  sphere  of  life, 
and  which  will  furnish  rules  and  directions  for  the  pro- 
per management  of  household  matters  and  the  skillful 
discharge  of  domestic  duties.  The  receipts  here  given 
have  all  been  thoroughly  tested  by  experienced  house- 
keepers, and  have  only  to  be  strictly  followed  to  prove 
their  superior  excellence.  Economy,  which  at  all  times 
and  under  all  circumstances  should  be  practiced,  has 
not  been  forgotten;  therefore,  one  of  the  most,  common 
objections  against  cook  books  generally,  namely,  their 
extravagance,  has  been  avoided.  Beside  rules  for 
cooking:,  the  book  contains  directions  for  the  treatment 
of  various  diseases  ;  also  for  making  butter  and  cheese, 
soap-making,  dyeing,  and  the  toilet,  which  alone  are 
worth  four  times  the  price  of  the  book  to  every  house- 
keeper. The  result  of  twenty-five  years'  experience, 
and  selections  from  the  best  and  most  approved  au- 
thors, are  humbly  submitted  to  the  public,  and  the 
writer  feels  confident  that  her  work  will  be,  what  its 
name  indicates,  an  "  Excelsioe  Cook  Book.'- 


RULES    FOR    HOrSEKEEPERS. 


Oedee  is  said  to  be  '■  Heaven's  first  law ;"  at  any 
rate,  it  should  be  the  first  of  every  household ;  and  to 
maintain  it,  rules  and  regulations  fior  the  management 
of  domestic  affairs  should  be  framed,  and  their  observ- 
ance strictly  and  punctually  enforced  upon  each  member 
of  the  family.  It  is  just  as  easy  to  cultivate  habits  of 
neatness  and  order  as  those  of  an  opposite  character, 
and  when  once  established,  will  contribute  much  to 
the  happiness  and  comfort  of  their  possessor.  There 
should  be  regular  hours  for  rising  and  retiring  ;  persons 
in  health  do  not  usually  require  more  than  seven  or 
eight  hours'  sleep,  but  in  sickness  or  debihty  "  kind  na- 
ture's sweet  restorer,"  is  often  the  most  efl&cient  physi- 
cian, and  should  be  welcomed  as  long  as  he  chooses  to 
bless  with  his  presence. 

All  important  matters  should  be  attended  to  in  the 
early  j)art  of  the  day.  If  you  have  unpleasant  duties  to 
discharge,  set  about  them  resolutely  and  promptly,  and 
not  render  their  performance  more  difficult  by  procrasti- 
natins:.  Alwavs  have  some  convenient  work  at  hand 
upon  which  to  employ  your  leisure  moments.  By  a 
judicious  management  of  your  affaii's,  you  will  have 
time  for  making  and  receiving  calls,  time  for  reading, 
time  for  evenmsr  and  momins;  communion  with  vour 
Maker — time  for  every  thing.  "When  the  hands  are 
occupied,  the  mind  can  be  employed  in  recalling  and 
meditating  on  something  you  have  been  reading.  Have 
a  place  for  every  thing  and  put  every  thiug  in  its  place. 
Have  a  time  to  do  each  kind  of  work,  and  see  that  it  is 
done  at  that  tune.  Study  to  do  every  thing  in  the  best 
possible  manner. 


8  RULES   FOR    HOUSEKEEPERS. 

Every  house  should  have  a  dry,  cool,  store-room,  con- 
venient to  the  kitchen. 

Have  a  box  for  every  kind  of  spice,  and  have  them 
Libeled. 

Put  dried  herbs  in  paper  bags,  and  hang  in  a  dry 
place. 

Dried  fruit  should  be  tied  in  cloth  bags,  and  hung  up. 

Vegetables  should  be  put  in  sand  in  the  cellar  for 
winter  use  ;  those  not  wanted  till  spring,  buried  in  the 
ground. 

Flour  should  be  kept  in  a  barrel  or  bin,  with  a  scoop 
to  dip  it  with,  kept  covered,  and  always  sifted  before 
using,  both  for  lightness  of  the  food  and  cleanliness. 

Indian  meal  should  be  sifted  and  put  in  a  barrel 
where  it  will  keep  cool  and  dry,  occasionally  stirring  it, 
particularly  in  warm  weather,  as  it  is  liable  to  get  musty 
or  sour. 

Rice  should  be  kept  in  a  dry  tub,  and  when  used, 
picked  over  and  washed  before  using. 

Hominy  should  be  washed  in  several  ^s'aters  to  get 
out  the  hulls. 

Sugar  should  be  bought  by  the  barrel,  as  it  is  more 
economical  than  buying  in  small  quantities.  It  can 
generally  be  purchased  lower  by  the  barrel,  and  is  more 
convenient. 

It  is  a  good  plan  to  purchase  molasses  when  you  can 
get  part  of  a  hogshead,  then  draw  off  the  molasses  and 
put  in  a  firkin  or  demijohn  for  use.  The  sugar  at  the 
bottom  can  be  used  for  some  kind  of  preserves  or 
pickling. 

Coffee  should  be  bought  in  quantities,  as  it  improves 
by  age. 

Tea  is  cheaper  to  buy  by  the  box,  but  should  be 
well  covered  ;  if  bought  in  small  quantities,  put  it  in 
a  tin  can. 

Raisins  and  starch  are  cheapest  bought  by  the  box. 

Zante  currants  should  be  washed  and  dried,  then  put 
in  a  jar  for  use. 

Lemon  and  orange-peel  should  be  dried  and  pounded, 
put  in  glass  bottles,  well  corked,  for  use. 

Nutmegs  should  be  put  in  a  box  with  the  grater  j 


KULES   FOR    HOUSEKEEPERS.  0 

ciiinaiiion,  cloves,  allspice,  mace,  and  pepper  should  be 
bought  whole,  then  ground  fine  and  put  in  boxes  for 
use.     Mustard  should  be  ground  and  kept  tight. 

Sweet  herbs  sliould  be  gathered  on  a  dry  day,  spread 
until  dr}^,  then  put  in  paper  bags.  It  is  Avell  to  grind 
some  and  put  in  bottles  for  use. 

Hops  sliould  be  kept  in  paper  bags  and  hung  up ; 
they  are  not  good  after  a  year  old. 

Codfish  should  be  purchased  in  small  quantities,  as  it 
is  unpleasant  about  the  house.  If  put  in  a  dry  place  it 
will  get  too  dry,  if  too  damp  it  will  spoil ;  it  must  be 
changed  from  garret  to  cellar. 

Cream  of  tartar,  tartaric  acid,  essences,  and  sal  vola- 
tile should  be  kejDt  in  glass  bottles,  particularly  the  sal 
volatile,  which  should  have  a  ground  stopper.  Use 
cold  water  for  dissolving^  it  when  used. 

Keep  cheese  in  a  dry,  cool  place,  and  after  it  is  cut, 
wrap  a  cloth  around  and  put  in  a  tin  box.  If  it  gets 
dry  before  using,  grate  it  and  pour  on  brandy,  then 
pack  tight  in  a  jar,  and  it  will  be  better  than  at  first. 

Butter  should  be  kept  in  dry,  cool  cellars  in  the  sum- 
mer, and  in  the  winter  in  an  outhouse  or  out-doors. 

Smoked  beef  should  be  kept  in  a  bag  and  hung  uj). 
While  using  ham,  put  in  a  bag  and  hang  up. 

Keep  bread  and  cake  in  a  tin  box,  well  covered ;  it 
will  keep  fresh  longer  than  any  other  way. 

Preserves  and  jellies  should  be  put  in  glass,  stone, 
or  china,  and  kept  "in  a  cool  place.  Jellies  should  be 
put  in  moulds  or  tumblers.  Strawberries,  pine-apples, 
and  all  delicate  preserves  may  be  kept  in  a  box,  with 
sand  or  saw-dust  filled  around  them,  and  they  will  keep 
longer. 

All  salted  provisions  should  be  watched,  and  see  that 
they  are  kept  under  the  brine,  for  if  one  piece  of  meat 
lies  up  it  will  spoil  the  whole  barrel.  If  the  brine 
looks  bloody,  it  must  be  scalded,  and  more  salt  added ; 
when  cold  pour  back. 

Tallow  should  be  kept  in  a  dry,  cool  place.  All  kinds 
of  oil  in  the  cellar.  Salt  should  be  kept  in  the  dryest 
place  that  can  be  found. 

No  housekeeper  should  be  without  good  vinegar; 


]0  EULES   FOR   HOUSEKEEPERS. 

the  best  is  made  from  cider  or  wine.  The  washings 
from  honey,  (and  after  making  jelly  or  wine,)  should  be 
poured  into  the  vinegar.  Cold  tea  should  be  saved  for 
this  purpose. 

Jelly-bags  should  be  made  of  flannel,  pudding-bags 
of  coarse,  thick  cotton  cloth. 

Pickles  should  be  kept  in  a  cool  place,  and  often  look- 
ed to  ;  if  the  vinegar  is  too  strong,  they  will  get  soft. 
A  cloth  should  be  put  on  top,  and  washed  out  as  the 
scum  rises.  Put  mustard,  nasturtions,  or  horse-radish 
to  keep  them.     Alum  will  harden  them. 

Wheat-starch  is  made  by  washing  the  wheat  clean, 
then  mash  it  fine,  wash  and  strain,  and  the  starch  will 
settle  at  the  bottom. 

Potato-starch  is  made  by  grating  the  potatoes,  then 
washing  clean  and  straining.  They  should  be  pared 
first.     Corn-starch  is  made  in  the  same  way. 

Wheat  washed  and  boiled  as  rice,  and  eaten  with 
cream,  sugar,  and  nutmeg,  is  nice,  and  a  very  good  sub- 
stitute for  that  article. 

Poppy-leaves  and  rose-leaves  should  be  gathered,  and 
dried  on  paper,  then  put  in  paper-bags  for  poultices  and 
washes. 

Iron  ware  lined  with  enamel  is  sujjerior  to  CA^ery 
other  utensil,  for  preserving,  and  should  always  be  used; 
but  if  brass  or  copper  is  used,  it  should  be  kept  scrupu- 
lously clean. 

To  purify  water,  put  common  charcoal  in  a  watering- 
pot,  and  fine  sand  over  it.  Let  the  water  trickle 
through.     An  old  sieve  will  answer. 

Save  all  your  suds  for  gardens.  It  is  a  great  fertilizer 
for  grape-vines. 

German  silver  spoons  should  never  be  used  ;  iron 
ones  are  preferable. 

Marble  fire-places  nor  oil-cloths  should  not  be  wash- 
ed in  suds.  Wipe  ofi*  the  dust,  then  rub  with  a  cloth 
dipped  in  oil.     Buttermilk  is  good  to  wash  oil-cloths. 

To  make  flat-irons  smooth,  rub  a  little  bees-wax  over 
them,  then  rub  Avith  a  cloth. 

Count  all  your  clothes-pins,  spoons,  knives  and  forks, 
towels,  napkins,  etc.,  once  a  week. 


HULES   FOR   HOUSEKEEPERS.  11 

'  A  little  bees-wax  or  soap  rubbed  on  the  hinges  of 
your  doors  to  prevent  their  creaking,  and  on  drawers, 
to  make  them  run  easy,  is  good. 

Never  put  away  your  clothes  or  stockings  without 
mending.  A  basket  should  be  kept,  and  when  the  iron- 
ing is  done  for  the  week,  any  article  that  wants  repair- 
ing should  be  put  into  it. 

To  keep  hams  :  Wrap  them  in  brown  paper  and  pack 
loosely  in  barrels  of  dry  ashes  or  oats  set  in  a  dry  place, 
or  rub  them  over  witli  black  pepper  mixed  with  Cayenne, 
then  put  in  bags  and  keep  in  a  cool  place.  Another : 
smoke  a  barrel,  set  it  in  the  attic,  have  nails  driven 
around,  and  hang  the  hams  in,  then  cover  with  a  thick 
cloth,  and  a  board  on  top.  Another  :  put  in  bags  and 
whitewash  them ;  hang  in  a  cool  place.  A  very  suc- 
cessful way  of  keeping  them  is  to  cut  the  ham  in  slices 
and  pack  them  in  a  jar  ;  melt  lard  and  pour  over ;  cover 
tight  and  keep  in  a  cool  place. 

Soft  soap  should  be  kept  in  an  out-house,  and  not  used 
until  six  months  old. 

Onions  should  be  tied  in  linen  bags,  and  hung  in  a 
dry,  cool  place. 

Eggs  should  be  kept  in  lime-water  or  salt,  w^ith  the 
small  end  down. 

Use  w^hiting  or  chalk  to  clean  silver ;  if  very  black, 
wet  with  alcohol ;   rub  with  soft  flannel  or  buckskin. 

To  bleach  cotton  cloth :  Soak  in  cold  water  till  wet 
through,  then  put  in  chloride  of  lime,  say  a  pound  to 
forty  yards  of  cloth,  with  just  sufficient  water  to  cover 
it.  Let  it  remain  from  three  to  five  hours,  then  rinse 
well  and  dry. 

Salt  or  brine  is  good  to  put  on  sidewalks  or  places 
where  the  grass  is  not  wanted. 

All  herbs  should  be  gathered  on  a  dry  day,  and  while 
in  blossom. 

Smart-weed  is  an  excellent  weed  for  many  purposes, 
and  should  always  be  gathered. 

Horse-radish  leaves  and  burdock  leaves  should  be 
dried  for  use. 

Lettuce  and  motherwort  are  quieting  to  the  nerves. 


12  IIULES   FOR   HOUSEKEEPERS. 

Boneset  or  thoroughwort  is  good  for  coughs,  colds, 
liver  complaint,  and  stomach  derangement. 

Spearmint  is  good  to  settle  the  stomach,  and  for  bowel 
complaints. 

Catmint  and  elderblows  should  always  be  gathered. 
Mayweed  is  good  for  many  things. 

Grapes  should  be  packed  in  sawdust  or  dry  sand  to 
keep  any  time. 

Apples  keep  better  by  wrapping  them  in  papers,  and 
keeping  them  in  a  cool  place.  This  is  some  trouble, 
but  large  ones  can  be  taken  care  of  in  this  way.  Dry 
sand  and  buckwheat  chaff  is  good  to  pack  them  in,  then 
put  in  a  cool  place. 

Lima  beans  should  be  dried  for  winter's  use,  or  they 
be  packed  in  salt.  Take  them  in  the  pods,  just  as  they 
begin  to  turn  yellow,  and  pack  in  a  keg,  with  alternate 
layers  of  salt.  Soak  in  cold  water  over  night  before 
using. 

Tea  and  coffee  should  be  made  as  soon  as  the  water 
boils,  or  the  gas  escapes  and  the  flavor  is  destroyed. 

Molasses  is  improved  by  boiling,  and  should  be  boiled 
and  set  away  for  cake  and  other  purposes. 

Cranberries  should  have  water  kept  on  them,  and 
changed  every  two  weeks. 

Scour  zinc  with  sand  and  buttermilk. 

Pour  hot  tallow  on  ink-spots,  let  it  remain  a  few  min- 
utes before  washing. 

To  give  a  gloss  to  shirt-bosoms  and  collars,  add  a 
piece  of  white  wax  and  spermaceti,  each  about  the  size 
of  a  pea,  to  a  pint  of  starch,  while  boiling.  Iron  until 
smooth,  as  friction  puts  on  the  gloss. 

Another :  pour  boiling  water  on  gum  arable,  and 
when  dissolved,  put  in  a  bottle,  cork  tight.  When  the 
starch  is  boiled  add  some,  and  it  will  give  a  fine  gloss. 

To  choose  nutmegs,  prick  them  with  a  pin  ;  if  the  oil 
comes  out,  they  are  good. 

Keep  lemons  and  oranges  well  wrapped  in  paper,  and 
they  will  keep  a  long  time. 

To  use  cold  starch,  pour  cold  water  on  the  quantity 
of  starch  required,  stir  well,  then  dip  in  the  articles  to 


RTJLES   FOR   HOUSEKEEPERS.  13 

be  starched  ;  roll  them  up  in  a  dry  cloth  ;  iron  m  fifteen 
minutes. 

To  prepare  rye  for  coftee  :  wash  thoroughly,  and 
soak  OA'er  night.  Brown  the  color  of  coflee  in  the 
morning. 

Celery  should  be  put  in  the  cellar,  in  a  box  of  dry 
sand,  for  winter  use. 


Fio.  1.  Beet. 


1,  cheek;  2,  neck;  3,  chuck  rib;  4,  front  of  the  shoulder; 
5,  back  of  shoulder  ;  6,  fore-shin  ;  7,  plate  pieces  ;  8,  standing 
ribs;  9,  sirloin;  10,  sirloin  steak;  11,  rump;  12,  round;  13, 
hind-shank. 


Fig.  2.  Mutton. 


1,  shoulder  ;  2,  2,  neck  or  rack;  3,  loin ;  4,  leg ;  5,  breast. 
A  chine  is  two  loins ;  a  saddle  of  mutton  is  two  legs  and  two 
loins. 

A  lamb  is  divided  into  two  fore-quarters  and  two  hind-quar- 
ters. 

Venison. — Two  legs  and  two  loins  are  a  saddle.  The  fore- 
quarters  are  nice  for  a  stew  or  for  mince  pies. 


Fig.  8.  Veal, 


1,  head  and  pluck ;  2,  rack  and  neck ;  3,  shoulder ;  4,  fore- 
shank  or  knuckle  ;  5,  breast ;  6,  loin  ;  7,  fillet  or  leg  ;  8,  hind- 
shank  or  knuckle. 


Fig.  4.   Pork. 


1,  leg  ;  2,  hind-loin  ;  3,  fore-loin  ;  4,  spare  rib ;  5,  hand , 
6,  spring. 

In  selecting  beef,  the  best  pieces  are  cut  from  the  shoulder 
to  the  rump,  including  the  sirloin,  the  first,  second,  and  third 
cuts  of  the  fore-quarter.  Steaks  from  the  round  are  larger, 
but  tougher  and  not  as  sweet  as  from  the  sirloin.  The  pieces 
near  the  fore-shoulder  are  always  tough. 

COOKITTG    THE    DIFFERENT    PARTS    OF    BEEF. 

The  head  and  heart  are  used  for  mince  pies  ;  also  the  neck. 
The  tongue  for  smoking,  or  corned  and  boiled.  The  sirloins 
roasted,  or  steaks.  The  round  or  buttock  is  used  for  steak, 
corning,  and  cooked  a  la  mode,  or  dried  beef.  Edge-bone, 
boiled.  Flanks,  steaks  or  corned.  Hock  or  shin  is  used  for 
soups.  Tallow  tried  for  candles.  Some  of  the  suet  should  be 
taken  care  of  for  pies,  puddings,  etc.  The  neck  may  be  used 
for  soup. 

VEAL. 

The  loin  is  used  for  roasting.  The  knuckles  are  used  for 
broths  and  soups.  The  neck  is  used  for  soups,  stews  and  pot- 
pies.     The  fillet  is  used  for  cutlets,  or  to  stuff  and  roast. 

MUTTOIsT. 

The  loin  is  roasted.  The  leg  is  roasted,  or  corned  and 
boiled,  or  cutlets  made  out  of  it.  Neck  or  back,  boil,  roast, 
haricot,  stewed,  or  soup.  Shoulder,  roast.  Breast,  grilled. 
Head,  soup. 

PORK. 

Shoulder  and  ham  are  used  for  smoking.  The  spare-rib  is 
used  for  roasting,  ribs  included.  The  lean  pieces  used  for 
sausages,  and  the  tenderloins  for  broiling.  The  head  and 
feet  for  head-cheese,  souse  or  scrapel ;  or  the  feet  may  be  used 
for  jelly.     The  rest  may  be  corned. 


EXCELSIOR  COOK  BOOK. 


A   SOUTHERN   MODE   OF   CUEING   HAMS. 

Take  four  quarts  of  salt,  one  and  a  half  ounces  of  salt- 
petre, with  sufficient  molasses  to  make  a  paste ;  this 
quantity  will  salt  a  hundred  and  fifty  pounds  of  meat. 
Kub  well  on  the  fleshy  side  ;  let  it  remain  four  weeks, 
then  smoke.  Two  days  before  removing  from  the 
smoke-house,  rub  them  over  with  black  pepper  and 
strong  vinegar,  to  prevent  the  flies  from  touching  them, 
then  put  in  bags  and  hang  up. 

ANOTHER   METHOD. 

Take  one  and  three  quarters  of  a  pound  of  good  salt, 
half  an  ounce  of  saltpetre,  one  pint  of  molasses,  one  tea- 
spoonful  of  saleratus,  add  one  gallon  of  water.  Bring 
the  liquor  to  a  boil,  taking  care  to  skim  well.  When 
cool,  pour  over  the  meat.  Keep  well  covered  with 
brine.  After  remaining  six  weeks,  smoke  them. 
• 

ANOTHER   METHOD. 

Take  one  pound  of  salt,  one  ounce  of  saltpetre,  one 
pint  of  molasses,  to  twenty  pounds  of  ham ;  water  sufii- 
cient  to  cover  well,  then  boil  and  skim  as  above. 

CUBIWa    MUTTON    HAM. 

Cut  a  hind-quarter  of  mutton  into  the  shape  of  a  ham, 
then  pound  one  ounce  of  saltpetre  with  one  pound  of 
salt  and  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  brown  sugar ;  rub  the 
ham  well  with  this  mixture,  particularly  the  hole  of  the 
shank  ;  let  it  lie  a  fortnight,  rubbing  it  every  two  or 
three  days,  then  press  it  one  day  with  a  weight.   Smoke 


16  EXCELSIOR   COOK  BOOK 

it  with  sawdust  ten   clays,  or  hang  it  to   dry  in  the 
kitchen. 

CUBING    HAMS.      NO.   4. 

To  one  hundred  pounds  of  meat,  take  four  pounds  of 
fine  salt,  two  ounces  of  saltpetre,  and  four  ounces  of 
brown  sugar ;  mix  well  together,  and  rub  the  hams 
until  they  are  covered ;  then  lay  them  on  a  board  and 
repeat  the  rubbing  daily  for  several  weeks,  or  till  the 
meat  is  ready  for  smoking. 

TO    PICKLE    BEEF. 

Take  four  gallons  of  water,  one  pound  of  brown 
sugar,  eight  of  salt,  four  ounces  of  saltpetre.  Boil  to- 
gether, and  carefully  take  off  the  scum  as  it  rises. 
When  clear,  let  it  remain  till  cool,  then  pour  over  the 
meat.  Increase  the  quantity  according  to  the  quantity 
of  meat. 

A  PICKLE   FOR  BEEF   TON"GUES   OR  DRIED   BEEF. 

Take  a  pound  and  a  half  of  brown  sugar,  six  pounds 
of  beef,  ounce  of  saltpetre  or  saleratus,  and  four  gal- 
lons of  water,  boil  gently,  skim  well,  and  when  clear, 
set  away  to  cool.  Put  the  meat  in  a  tub,  and  j^our  on 
till  covered  ;  a  weight  should  be  put  on  to  keep  it  under 
the  brine. 

TO    PICKLE    PORK. 

It  should  not  be  salted  until  the  meat  is  perfectly  cold. 
It  is  best  to  let  it  remain  one  day  before  packing. 
Sprinkle  salt  on  the  bottom  of  a  clean,  sweet  barrel ; 
rock-salt  is  the  best  for  this  purpose.  Put  in  a  layer  of 
poi'k  with  the  rind  down,  pack  closely,  then  a  layer  of 
salt  alternately  till  all  is  in.  Make  a  strong  brine,  boil, 
skim,  and  when  cold,  pour.  Keep  a  stone  on  top  to 
keep  the  meat  under.  If  there  is  not  sufficient  salt,  it 
will  not  keep  during  the  warm  weather ;  in  that  case, 
it  must  be  scalded  over,  adding  more  salt.  It  should 
be  looked  to  from  time  to  time,  to  see  that  it  is  well 
covered  with  brine,  for,  if  not,  the  top  pieces  become 
tainted,  and  will  extend  to  the  whole  barrel.  In  salting 
down  new  pork  the  old  brine  may  be  used,  by  scalding 
and  skimming. 


AND    UOUSEKEEPER's    AID.  17 

DIRECTIONS    FOR    CUTTINa    UP    A    HOG. 

Take  off"  the  head,  split  the  hog  tlirough  the  spine ; 
take  out  the  leaf-fat,  then  take  oiF  a  piece  of  the  shoulder 
for  sausage-meat ;  the  lean  meat  called  spare-rib  should 
not  be  taken  off.  Cut  a  narrow  strip  from  the  belly  for 
sausage-meat.  Take  off  the  ham  and  shoidder  for  smok- 
ing, the  remainder  for  salting  ;  the  cheek  may  be  used 
for  sausages. 

TRYING    LARD. 

Cut  up  the  leaf-fat,  take  off  the  skin,  put  over  a  gen- 
tle fire,  stirring  occasionally  to  prevent  its  sticking  at 
the  bottom.  'No  water  should  be  added,  as  it  will  make 
it  sputter,  and  will  not  keep  so  well.  When  a  nice 
brown,  strain  through  a  strainer,  using  a  pair  of  squeez- 
ers.    Care  should  be  taken  not  to  let  it  burn. 

The  fat  taken  off  the  intestines  should  be  soaked  in 
salt  and  water  two  days,  changing  each  day.  This  fat 
should  be  used  first,  as  it  will  not  keep  as  long  as  the 
leaf-fat. 

TO    PREPARE    CASES    FOR    SAUSAGES. 

Empty  the  cases,  the  smaller  mtestines  of  the  hog ; 
wash  well ;  cut  in  lengths  of  two  yards  ;  scrape,  and 
turn  with  a  stick  each  day  for  five  days,  soaking  in  salt 
and  water,  changing  each  time. 

TRYING    TALLOTV. 

Cut  in  small  pieces,  put  over  a  slow  fire  without  any 
water,  frequently  stirring.  When  brown,  squeeze 
through  a  strainer. 

ON    CARVING. 

Your  knife  must  not  be  too  heavy,  nor  too  large, 
but  of  middling  size,  and  of  a  fine  edge.  Less  strength 
is  required  than  practice.  The  dish  should  be  suffi- 
ciently near  to  enable  the  carver  to  reach  it  without 
rising,  and  to  give  an  appearance  of  ease  and  ability. 
Cut  Vour  pieces,  asking  him  or  her  what  part  they 
prefer,  and  showing  no  partiality  to  your  guests.  Fish 
requires  but  very  little  carving.  It  shoulcl  be  carefully 
helped  with  a  fish-knife,  which  is  not  sharp,  and  being 


16  EXCELSIOR   COOK   BOOK 

broad,  it  prevents  the  flakes  from  being  broken,  and, 
in  salmon  and  cod,  adds  much  to  their  beanty.  A  jDor- 
tion  of  the  roe  should  be  given  to  each  person,  as  well 
as  liver. 

In  salmon,  the  choice  parts  are  next  the  head,  and 
the  thin  part  towards  the  tail  is  less  savory.  This  is 
seldom  sent  to  the  table  whole.  A  piece  cut  from 
the  middle  j^arts  is  the  best  flavored.  Make  an  in- 
cision along  the  back ;  then  cut  the  thickest  part  for 
the  lean,  and  the  thin  for  the  fat.  A  cod's  head  and 
shoulders,  when  in  season,  is  a  very  genteel  dish. 
All  the  parts  are  eaten,  except  the  green  jelly  of  the 
eye ;  that  is  never  served.  The  tongue  and  palate  are 
considered  great  delicacies,  for  which  you  must  insert 
a  spoon  into  the  mouth  to  obtain.  Insert  the  knife 
from  the  back  of  the  head,  through  the  back;  and 
help  each  person  to  a  piece  of  the  sounds,  which  line 
the  under  side  of  the  backbone,  together  with  a  piece 
of  the  fish.  Mackerel  should  have  the  head  cut  ofi",  as 
being  unsavory ;  then  divide  down  the  back,  and  give 
a  side  to  each,  if  small ;  and,  if  less  is  required,  give 
the  thickest  end.  Give  some  of  the  roe,  if  liked.  In 
the  male  it  is  hard ;  in  the  female,  soft. 

Turbot :  The  under  part  is  most  esteem.ed,  and  should 
be  placed  uppermost  on  the  table.  The  middle  is  the 
choicest  part,  and  an  incision  should  be  made  directly 
through.  It  is  difiicult  to  divide  the  backbone ;  and 
it  must  be  raised  with  the  fork,  until  you  separate  a 
portion  of  it  with  the  fish-knife.  It  is  preferred  by 
some,  though  less  delicate  than  the  under  side. 

To  carve  a  calf's  head :  Cut  along  the  cheek-bone,  and 
let  the  knife  penetrate  to  the  bone.  The  sweet-bread 
lies  at  the  thick  part  of  the  neck,  which  should  be  cut 
in  slices.  If  the  eye  is  asked  ibr,  take  it  out  with 
the  point  of  a  knife.  The  palate  is  esteemed  a  deli- 
cacy, and  some  nice  lean  pieces  may  be  cut  from  under 
the  jaw-bone.  A  tongue  should  be  (ut  through  the 
thickest  part,  and  slices  cut  from  that,  as  it  is  more 
juicy.     The  fat  is  at  the  root  of  the  tongue. 

To  carve  a  pig :  This  is  generally  divided  by  the 
cook  before  sending  to  the  table.    First,  separate  the 


AND   housekeeper's   AID.  19 

shoulders  from  the  body ;  then  the  leg ;  then  divide  the 
ribs  into  two  or  three  parts.  Put  a  piece  of  stuffing 
on  each  plate.     Some  prefer  a  bit  of  the  ear. 

Spare-rib :  Cut  from  the  thick  meat  near  the  back- 
bone, slicing  oif.  If  a  rib  is  preferred,  they  are  easily 
cut  through,  after  the  meat  is  taken  off. 

A  ham  should  be  cut  through  the  thick  part,  where 
the  best  j^ieces  are;  or  you  may  commence  at  the 
knuckle,  and  proceed  towards  the  end. 

Poultry :  Put  your  fork  into  the  middle  of  the  fowl, 
or  breast ;  take  off  the  wing  and  leg  on  both  sides ; 
then  cut  slices  from  ~  each  side  of  the  breast.  Ask 
which  part  each  person  prefers,  and  give  a  piece  of 
dressing  to  every  one. 

MEATS. 

In  every  branch  of  cookery  experience  is  necessary, 
particularly  in  meats.  Almost  all  kinds  of  meats  are 
tenderer  and  better  flavored  by  being  a  day  or  two 
old,  in  summer ;  and  in  cold  weather  they  require 
a  longer  time.  Beef  and  mutton  do  not  ripen  so  soon 
as  veal  or  lamb.  When  frozen,  it  should  be  laid  in  a 
warm  place  to  thaw,  before  using,  or  it  will  be  dry, 
and  will  not  cook  well.  It  is  not  so  sweet  if  put  into 
cold  water  to  take  out  the  frost.  It  can  be  kept  frozen, 
by  packing  in  snow  ;  but  as  soon  as  the  snow  melts,  it 
should  be  cooked.  I  have  sometimes  kept  meat  in  the 
ice-house,  but  as  soon  as  taken  out  it  must  be  used ;  it 
Avould  not  keep  long.  "Warm,  damp  weather  is  bad  for 
keeping  meats.  South  winds  and  lightning  are  very 
unfavorable.  After  a  storm  meat  should  always  be 
examined.  I  have  sometimes  kept  it  successfully  by 
putting  in  flour,  in  a  dry  place,  as  it  keeps  the  flies 
from  it,  and  also  the  air.  Meat  will  keep  longer  by 
hanging  than  by  laying  down,  if  kept  from  the  flies. 
If  it  does  not  smell  perfectly  sweet,  add  a  little  sale- 
ratus  while  boiling,  and,  if  not  bad,  it  will  remove 
every  unpleasant  taste  or  smell.  Fowls  should  never 
be  cooked  if  there  is  the  least  taint  about  them. 

BOILIlXrG-   MEATS. 

While  boiling  meat,  care  sliould  be  taken  to  keep 
it  constantly  boiling,  and  well  skimmed.     The  scum 


20  EXCELSIOR   COOK   BOOK 

should  be  taken  off  just  before  boiling ;  and  if  not  all 
takun  off,  throw  in  a  little  cold  water,  and  skim  again. 
Fresli  meat  should  be  put  into  hot  water,  salt  into  cold 
water.  Never  crowd  the  meat,  but  leave  room  for 
plenty  of  water.  A  quarter  of  an  hour  is  allowed  for 
a  pound  of  meat.  A  chicken  will  cook  in  half  an 
hour,  or,  if  six  months  old,  it  will  require  an  hour. 
An  old  fowl  requires  from  four  to  five.  Meats  should 
be  boiled  gently,  as  fast  boiling  hardens  meat.  Tlie 
part  that  is  to  be  uppermost  on  the  table  should  be 
laid  down  in  the  pot,  as  the  scum  is  apt  to  give  it  a 
dark  look,  if  not  all  taken  off.  When  half  boiled, 
throw  in  salt — say  a  large  spoonful  to  three  quarts  of 
water.  The  water  can  be  used  for  soup ;  if  too 
greasy,  skim  off  part  of  the  fat.  Meat  or  poultry  lose 
their  flavor  by  standing  in  water  after  they  are  done. 
The  cover  should  never  be  taken  off,  except  to  take  off 
the  scum  or  examine  the  meat,  and  should  be  imme- 
diately put  on  again.  When  meat  is  put  into  cold 
water,  it  should  be  heated  gradually ;  for,  if  boiled  too 
soon,  it  will  shrink  and  harden,  and  will  not  throw  up 
the  scum  so  readily. 

ROAST   OR   BAKED  MEATS. 

Meats  are  better  roasted  than  baked  ;  but  it  is  more 
convenient  to  bake,  since  fire-places  have  become  obso- 
lete. It  must  be  frequently  basted,  and  baked  slowly. 
Before  putting  in  the  oven,  rub  salt  and  pepj^er  all  over 
the  meat,  and  put  water  in  the  dripping-pan,  always 
adding  more  when  required,  occasionally  turning  the 
meat  over,  and  basting  often.  When  tender,  take  up, 
and  stir  in  a  little  flour  and  water,  having  previously 
mixed  it,  so  as  to  get  out  all  the  lumps.  Lean  meats 
require  butter  put  into  the  gravy.  Game  and  pork 
require  sweet  herbs. 

FRIED    MEATS. 

Fried  meat  is  the  most  convenient  method  of  cook- 
ing, but  not  as  digestible  as  other  modes,  and  should 
be  avoided  as  mucli  as  possible.  In  frying  fresh  pork, 
plenty  of  pepper  and  salt,  also  sweet  herbs,  should  be 
sprinkled  on,  and  it  will  fry  itself     Lean  meats  require 


AND    housekeeper's    AID.  21 

butter  or  lard  put  into  the  spider,  previous  to  puttlniv 
in  tlie  meat.  Pork  is  always  ])rereral)le  to  lai-d,  wliicJi 
can  bo.  fried  first,  then  taken  out,  when  the  meat  can 
be  put  in.  It  sliould  fry  quick,  otherwise  it  will  be 
liard  and  i^reasy.  Take  u))  the  meat  and  stir  in  a 
spoonful  of  ilour;  mix  Avell,  so  it  will  not  be  lumpy; 
turn  in  a  little  hot  water,  stir  up,  and  turn  on  the  meat. 
It  must  be  seasoned  while  cooking. 

BROILED    MEATS. 

Broiling  is  considered  by  epicures  to  be  decidedly 
the  best  mode  of  cooking  meats,  particularly  beef  and 
chickens.  Meats  should  not  be  cooked  on  the  same 
gridiron  as  iish,  unless  great  care  is  used  in  cleaning — 
which  should  always  be  done  in  either  case.  It  is 
well  to  have  the  bars  of  the  gridiron  concave  and 
termitiate  in  a  trough  ;  otherwise  the  juice  will  drop 
into  the  lire,  and  smoke  the  meat.  If  the  meat  is  not 
fat,  it  is  well  to  grease  the  bars  before  using,  or  tho 
meat  will  show  the  impression  and  injure  the  looks. 
The  quicker  meats  are  boiled  w^ithout  burning,  the 
sweeter  they  will  be.  Have  your  platter  warm;  lay 
on  your  meat  when  done ;  sprinkle  salt,  pepper,  and 
melted  butter ;  turn  over  two  or  three  times ;  then 
send  to  the  table  hot. 

BROILINQ   BEEF. 

Steaks  from  the  round  are  generally  used,  but  are 
not  as  good  as  the  sirloin.  Be  carefid  to  have  it  cut 
the  riglit  way  of  the  grain.  It  should  be  laid  on  « 
board  and  pounded,  before  broiling.  Have  nice  hot 
coals,  and  the  gridiron  warm,  before  putting  on  ;  broil 
quickly,  without  burning.  When  the  juice  begins  to 
rise,  take  a  knife  and  fork,  having  your  phitter  at 
hand;  take  it  carefully  up  and  lay  on  the  platter; 
Avhen  the  juice  has  drained  out,  put  back  on  the 
gridiron,  the  other  side  down  ;  let  it  remain  a  moment, 
when  it  must  be  turned  again.  This  saves  the  juice, 
which  otherwise  goes  into  the  lire.  It  should  look  red 
when  done,  and  tlien  it  will  be  sweet  and  tender ;  if 
done  too  much,  it  becomes  hard  and  tough,  without 


22  EXCELSIOR   COOK   BOOK 

that  sweet  taste  for  which  beef  is  noted.  Season  with 
melted  butter,  j^epper  and  salt.  If  liked,  add  a  sj^oon- 
fiil  of  hot  water.  It  should  be  eaten  the  moment  it  is 
cooked.  It  requires  from  ten  to  fifteen  minutes  in 
cooking. 

FKIED    BEEF. 

The  same  pieces  that  are  used  for  broiling  are  good 
fried.  It  should  be  fried  in  butter  or  beef  drippings  ; 
put  in  when  hot,  sprinkle  a  little  salt  and  pepper  over ; 
turn  immediately  or  it  Avill  cook  too  much.  When 
done,  take  up  and  stir  in  flour,  then  pour  in  hot  water 
to  make  a  gravy  ;  send  to  the  table  at  once. 

KOAST    OK    BAKED    BEEF. 

In  selecting  beef  care  should  be  taken  to  get  that, 
that  is  tender,  and  of  a  bright  red  color,  the  fat  white. 
The  sirloin  of  the  cuts  from  the  fore-quarter  are  the 
best  pieces  for  roasting  or  baking.  Rub  salt  and  pep 
per  on  the  meat ;  lay  in  the  dripping-pan  ;  put  in  water, 
and  baste  frequently  with  a  large  spoon.  Roast  slow- 
ly at  first,  then  increase  the  heat,  turning  the  meat  oc- 
casionally over,  and  adding  more  water  if  needed.  Do 
not  let  the  water  get  out.  If  thick,  allow  twenty  min- 
utes to  a  pound ;  if  thin,  less  time  will  be  required. 
Wlien  done,  make  a  gravy  according  to  the  directions 
given. 

FBICASSEED    BEEF. 

Take  any  piece  of  beef — such  as  will  not  answer  for 
any  other  purpose,  will  do ;  put  in  water  sufficient  to 
cook  it  tender  ;  Avhen  half  done,  throw  in  salt  and  some 
pep]:»er  ;  fry  down  to  a  nice  brown  ;  then  make  a  gravy 
of  flour  and  water.  Serve  with  apple-sauce,  vegetables, 
and  salad. 

MOCK    DUCK. 

Take  as  large  a  slice  of  beef  as  you  can  get ;  pound 
thin  ;  then  make  a  stuffing  prepared  as  for  a  turkey ; 
fill  it,  and  sew  np ;  fry  one  hour  in  the  drippings  of 
beef  or  butter  ;  turn  it  and  keep  covered  until  done ; 
after  taking  up,  pour  in  hot  water,  and  the  stuffing  that 


AND   housekeeper's   AID.  23 

falls  will  thicken  it.     Yon  must  season  it  with  salt  and 
l^epper  wlicn  first  put  over. 

BEEF    COOKED    IN    OlSTIONS. 

Fry  a  few  slices  of  pork  qnite  brown,  then  take  ten- 
der beef  and  slice  thin  ;  put  a  layer  of  beef  and  pork 
with  onions  sliced;  season  with  salt  and  pepper.  Put 
on  sufficient  water  to  cover  it,  and,  when  done,  take  up ; 
then  stir  flour  and  water  to  make  tlie  gravy.  They 
that  are  fond  of  onions  will  find  this  a  savory  dish. 

ALAMODE    BEEP. 

Take  five  or  six  pounds  of  the  round  of  beef;  then 
soak  one  pound  of  bread  in  cold  water  ;  drain  off  the 
Avater,  (or  only  put  enough  on  to  soak  the  bread;) 
mix  a  large  spoonful  of  flour,  the  same  of  melted  butter, 
a  teaspoonful  of  salt,  two  eggs,  pepper,  cloves  and  all- 
spice to  the  taste,  or,  if  preferred,  sweet  herbs.  Cut 
gaslies  in  the  meat,  and  fill  with  part  of  the  meat ;  stew 
gently  two  hours,  in  just  sufficient  water  to  cover  it ; 
then  take  up  and  put  in  a  dripping-pan  with  the  liquor ; 
lay  the  reserved  dressing  on  top,  and  bake  two  hours, 
or  until  tender,  basting  occasionally.  When  taken  up, 
make  a  gravy,  as  directed,  and,  if  liked,  add  a  wine- 
glass of  wine,  and  a  little  butter. 

BOUILLI. 

Boil  about  seven  or  eight  pounds  of  beef  in  more 
water  than  enough  to  cover  it.  Take  oft"  the  scum  as  it 
rises  ;  then  put  in  two  carrots,  two  onions,  two  heads 
of  celery,  turnips,  two  cloves,  a  little  parsley,  and  sweet 
herbs.  Let  it  boil  gently  four  or  five  hours.  Put  a 
turnip,  an  onion,  and  a  head  of  celery  to  cook  whole, 
and  when  done,  take  out  and  cut  in  squares.  Take  out 
the  meat  carefully,  and  skim  off  tlie  fat,  and  lay  the 
sliced  vegetable  in  the  soup,  and  add  a  spoonful  of  cat- 
sup, then  serve  as  other  soup. 

KOLLED    BEEF. 

Take  the  inside  of  a  sirloin  ;  soak  in  a  glass  of  port 
wine  and  a  glass  of  vinegar  mixed  for  forty-eight  hours  ; 
make  a  stuffing,  and  fill  it ;  then  bind  up  tight,  and 


24  EXCELSIOE    COOK   BOOK 

roast  before  the  fire,  if  convenient ;  if  to  be  cooked  in 
the  stove,  put  in  a  pan  with  a  pint  of  water,  and  cook 
gently ;  baste  with  a  gLass  of  wine  and  vinegar  together, 
also,  a  tea-spoonful  of  pounded  allspice.  Larding  im- 
proves the  look  and  flavor.  Make  a  gravy,  "and  serve 
with  currant-jelly  or  cranberries. 

BEEF    CAKES. 

Pound  some  beef  that  is  under-done  with  a  little  fat 
ham ;  season  with  pepper  and  salt,  also  onions,  (if  you 
like ; )  mix  well  and  make  into  cakes,  and  fry  a  nice 
brown.     Serve  them  in  a  good  gravy. 

A   FRICAKTDEAU    OP    BEEF. 

Take  a  piece  of  lean  beef,  lard  it  with  bacon  seasoned 
with  pepper  and  salt,  cloves,  mace,  and  allsjDice.  Put 
in  a  kettle  with  a  pint  of  broth,  a  glass  of  white  wine, 
all  sorts  of  sweet  herbs,  a  garlic  or  onion,  four  cloves, 
pepper  and  salt.  When  the  meat  is  tender,  cover  it 
close  and  skim  the  liquor ;  then  strain  it,  and  let  it 
boil  till  it  is  reduced  to  a  glaze.  Glaze  the  larded  side 
with  it. 

TO    MAKE    HUNTER'S    BEEP. 

Take  a  round  of  beef  that  weighs  twenty-five  pounds, 
let  it  hang  two  days  in  summer,  and  longer  in  winter, 
then  take  one  ounce  of  saltpetre,  three  ounces  of  brown 
sugar,  an  ounce  of  clove,  and  the  same  of  nutmeg,  half 
an  ounce  of  allspice,  three  handful s  of  common  salt,  and 
rub  well  into  the  meat ;  turn  and  rub  every  day  for 
two  or  three  Aveeks.  The  bone  should  be  taken  out 
first.  When  to  be  cooked,  dip  into  cold  water,  to  take 
oif  the  loose  spice ;  then  bind  with  cord  or  tape,  and 
put  in  a  pan  with  a  tea-cupful  of  water  ;  cover  the  top 
of  the  meat  with  shred  suet,  and  cover  the  pan  with 
brown  crust  and  paper ;  bake  six  hours ;  when  cold, 
take  off  the  paste  and  tape.  The  gravy  is  nice  ;  it  will 
keep  a  long  time. 

ANOTHEU    MODE    OF    DRESSING    BEEF. 

Take  the  bones  out  of  three  ribs  ;  sprinkle  with  salt ; 
roll  tiirht,  and  roast  it.  It  looks  nice.  It  can  be  dono 
as  hunter's  beef. 


AND  housekeeper's  AID.  25 

ITALIAN    BEEFSTEAK. 

Cut  a  steak  as  for  broiling ;  pound  well,  and  season 
with  salt,  pepper,  and  onion ;  put  in  a  stew-pan,  cover 
tight,  and  set  wliere  it  will  cook  slowly,  and  without 
burning.  Cook  two  or  three  hours,  and  then  make  a 
gravy. 

BEEF    OLIVES. 

Take  beef  half  cooked,  cut  in  slices  half  an  inch  thick, 
and  four  inches  square ;  lay  then  on  a  force-meat  of 
bread-crumbs,  a  little  suet,  pepper  and  salt ;  roll  them, 
and  fasten  with  skewers ;  put  in  a  stew-pan,  with 
some  gravy,  and  a  sjDOonful  of  water,  and  stew  until 
tender. 

TO    DKESS    THE    SAME-SAN"I>EBS. 

Chop  beef  or  mutton,  with  onion,  pepper  and  salt ; 
add  a  little  gravy ;  put  into  saucers,  making  them  two 
thirds  full ;  fill  up  with  mashed  potatoes ;  put  a  piece 
of  butter  on  the  top,  and  brown  in  an  oven. 

CECILS. 

Mince-meat  of  any  kind,  crumbs  of  bread,  onion,  an- 
chovies, lemon-peel,  salt,  nutmeg,  chopped  parsley,  pep- 
per, a  piece  of  butter  ;  stir  well  together  over  a  fire  for 
a  few  minutes.  When  cool,  make  up  into  balls  the  size 
of  a  turkey's  egg ;  roll  in  eggs  beaten  light,  then  sprinkle 
with  bread-crumbs ;  then  fry  a  nice  brown,  and  serve 
with  gravy. 

HASH    BEEF. 

Chop  up  pieces  of  beef  that  has  been  cooked,  with 
boiled  potiatoes,  half  and  half,  put  in  a  spider ;  season 
with  pepper  and  salt,  also  a  piece  of  butter.  Salt  pork 
is  nice  for  this  purpose. 

BEEF    CAKES.    NO.  2» 

Chop  pieces  of  roast  beef  very  fine,  mix  bread-crumbs, 
chopped  onions,  and  parsley ;  season  with  pepper  and 
salt;  moisten  with  drippings  or  catsup;  cold  ham  or 
tongue  may  be  added ;  make  in  broad  flat  cakes,  and 
spread  a  coat  of  mashed  potatoes  on  the  top ;  put  a 
piece  of  butter  on  every  cake,  and  set  it  in  the  oveu  to 

2 


26  EXCELSIOE    COOK   BOOK 

brown.     Other  cold  meats  may  be  prepared  in  the  same 
way. 

BEEF    LIVER.    NO.   1. 

Cut  in  thin  slices  and  lay  on  a  gridiron,  with  good 
live  coals  under ;  when  cooked  on  one  side,  turn  over ; 
sprinkle  a  little  salt  and  pepper  over  it,  and  in  ten  min- 
utes it  will  be  done ;  lay  on  melted  butter,  or  make  a 
gravy  of  flour  and  water.  It  is  very  nice  fried.  But 
the  best  way  to  use  beef  liver  is  to  corn  it,  and  then 
smoke  it,  as  you  would  smoked  beef;  then  cut  in  thin 
slices,  and  fry  in  a  little  butter ;  it  will  not  need  much 
cookmg.     This  is  very  nice  for  tea. 

TO    BOIL    A    TOWGUB. 

Put  a  tongue  into  a  pot  over  night,  with  water  on  ; 
let  it  remain  until  next  day,  about  three  hours  before 
dinner. 

FRIZZLED    BEEP. 

Cut  dried  beef  in  thin  slices,  and  warm,  with  a  little 
water  in  the  pan ;  stir  in  a  little  flour  and  water  mixed, 
a  piece  of  butter,  and  take  up,  as  much  cooking  hardens 
it ;  add  eggs,  if  liked. 

TRIPE. 

Very  few  persons  nnderstand  dressing  tripe.  It 
should  be  cut  in  squares,  nearly  a  quarter  of  a  yard 
long ;  then  scraped  every  day  for  nine  days  in  succes- 
sion ;  and  j)nt  in  fresh  water  with  salt  thrown  in.  It 
should  then  be  boiled  in  milk  until  tender ;  if  it  can  be 
kept  frozen  it  is  better  ;  if  not,  it  must  be  kept  in  salt 
and  water,  and  changed  every  day  while  it  lasts.  It 
can  be  pickled  in  spiced  vinegar,  or  broiled  like  steak, 
or  fried  in  butter,  or  a  nice  stuffing  made  and  filled ; 
then  sew  up  and  fry. 

TO    STE-W    BEEP. 

Take  a  good  piece  of  fresh  beef,  not  too  fat,  boil  un- 
til an  hour  before  taking  up,  then  season  with  pepper 
and  salt ;  pare  potatoes  and  parsnips  ;  cut  one  in  two  ; 
cook  until  tender ;  then  make  a  gravy.  If  you  have 
Bweet  potatoes,  they  are  better.  .     . 


AND    housekeeper's    AID.  27 

FBOZEW  BEEF. 

If  beef  is  frozen,  shave  off  what  you  require  with  a 
sharp  knife  ;  put  in  a  spider  with  butter,  a  few  onions 
or  not,  just  as  you  like,  cover  close  ;  when  nearly  done, 
season  with  salt  and  pepper ;  make  a  gravy  as  directed. 

VEAL  CUTLETS. 

Cut  your  veal,  as  for  steaks  ;  that  cut  from  the  round 
is  the  best ;  put  some  butter  in  the  pan,  and  let  it  be 
hot ;  beat  up  an  egg,  dip  one  piece  of  veal  in  at  a  time ; 
have  some  flour  on  another  plate ;  dip  into  the  flour 
next,  both  sides,  lay  carefully  into  the  pan,  sprinkle 
salt  and  pepper  over  them.  Another  way  is  to  fry  the 
veal  first,  and  then  dip  in  the  egg  and  flour,  and  fry 
gently  five  minutes. 

VEAL    STEAV. 

Cut  veal  into  strips  or  small  pieces,  a  few  slices  of 
salt  pork,  potatoes  pared  and  sliced  thin ;  put  on  water 
to  cover  the  whole  ;  when  nearly  done,  season  with  pep- 
per and  salt.  About  five  minutes  before  taking  up  lay 
on  the  top  slices  of  bread,  and  cover  again  closely  until 
the  bread  has  steamed  through ;  then  take  up. 

A   FILLET    OP   VEAL. 

Take  out  the  bone  and  fill  with  a  nice  stuffing  ;•  close 
the  meat  up  tight,  season  with  salt  and  pepper,  put  in 
a  dripping-pan  with  water,  and  bake  two  hours ;  thick- 
en the  gravy,  adding  butter,  and  if  liked,  a  glass  of 
wine.  Yeal  is  very  nice  cut  in  gashes,  and  slices  of 
pork  laid  in  and  cooked.  The  lorn  is  the  best  part  for 
roasting.  The  neck  is  good  for  soup.  The  bones,  after 
cutting  off  the  meat,  are  nice  for  pot-pies. 

FOKCE-MEAT  BALLS. 

Chop  pieces  of  veal  up  fine,  with  a  very  little  pork ; 
add  a  couple  of  eggs,  and  season  to  the  taste ;  do  up  into 
balls  the  size  of  an  egg,  and  fry  brown. 

CALF   LIVER. 
It  is  good  fried  or  broiled,  stuffed  and  baked ;  but 
the  best  way  is  Jo  take  the  liver,  heart,  and  nnder-jaw, 


28  IIXCELSIOR   COOK   BOOK 

boil  together  until  tender,  then  take  out  of  the  liquor 
and  chop  fine ;  season  with  butter,  pepper,  and  salt ; 
you  may  add  sweet  herbs  if  you  like. 

COLLOPS. 

Cut  veal  into  thin  slices,  dip  into  flour  and  fry  brown  ; 
then  turn  in  water  to  cover  the  veal,  and  when  it  boils 
put  in  two  or  three  sliced  onions,  pepper  and  salt ;  when 
tender  take  up,  thicken  the  gravy  and  squeeze  in  the 
juice  of  a  lemon  and  turn  on  the  coUops ;  garnish  the 
dish  with  lemon  cut  in  slices. 

FRESH    MEAT    GRIDDLES. 

Chop  all  the  bits  of  cold  fresh  beef  or  veal,  season 
with  salt  and  pepper,  make  a  nice  batter,  grease  your 
griddle  and  put  on  a  spoonful  of  ba'tter,  then  one  of 
meat,  then  another  of  batter,  when  fried  on  one  side 
turn  over ;  these  are  nice  for  a  breakfast  dish. 

A  BEEF   OR  VEAIi   PIE. 

Take  the  cold  pieces  after  baking  and  make  a  light 
crust,  quite  short ;  lay  it  in  your  basin,  put  in  your 
pieces  of  meat  with  butter,  pepper,  and  salt,  adding  a 
little  water  ;  put  on  a  cover,  and  bake  an  hour. 

A  BEEF'S  HEART. 

Cut  it  open  on  both  sides,  (this  is  usually  done  by  the 
butcher,)  wash  clean,  make  a  nice  stufiing,  and  fill  up, 
then  tie  with  a  bit  of  twine,  and  roast  or  bake  until 
tender;  it  is  better  if  boiled  about  twenty  minutes 
before  stuffing ;  garnish  with  cloves  and  eat  with  jelly. 
It  is  nice  boiled  and  fried  in  butter,  or  smoked,  and 
then  fried,  in  which  case  it  must  be  corned  first. 

CALVES'  HEAD. 

Clean  well  and  soak  in  water  to  make  it  look  white, 
leave  the  skin  on,  take  out  the  tongue  to  pickle,  and 
the  brains  ;  boil  the  head  tender,  put  in  some  parsley 
and  a  little  butter,  brown  nice  and  take  up.  The  brains 
must  be  boiled  by  themselves,  then  put  in  butter,  sage, 
pepper,  and  salt.  Another  way :  Boil  the  head  almost 
tender,  take  ofi*  nearly  all  the  meat  off  the  bone  and 


AND   HOIJSEKEEPEe's   AID.  29 

put  in  a  dish  ;  beat  up  the  yolks  of  two  eggs  and  turn 
over,  tlien  cover  with  bread-crumbs,  a  little  summer 
savory  or  sage  nicely  sifted,  pepper,  salt,  and  one  nut- 
meg'if  you  like  ;  mix  well  together  before  putting  on ; 
put  the  dish  in  the  oven  and  brown  it,  then  slice  the 
rest  of  the  head  and  skin  the  tongue,  then  slice  it ;  put 
some  gravy  in  a  pan  with  parsley,  sage,  savory,  pepper, 
and  salt,  stir  in  some  flour  while  boiling  hot,  having 
previously  wet  it  with  cold  water  to  prevent  it  being 
lumpy,  turn  over  the  rest,  then  beat  up  the  brains,  and 
add  two  spoonfuls  of  catsup  ;  simmer  the  whole  to- 
gether. 

CALVES'   FEET. 

Boil  them  tender,  roll  in  flour,  and  fry  browm,  make 
a  gravy  and  season  with  salt,  pepper,  and  mace,  add 
wine  if  you  like.  They  can  be  boiled  with  the  head  if 
liked,  and  then  split  open  to  garnish  it  by  laymg  around 
the  head. 

SWEETBREADS. 

Boil  them  tender;  then  add  cream,  butter,  pepper, 
Bait,  and  nutmeg,  if  you  like,  stir  in  a  little  flour  to  thick- 
en the  gravy ;  or  they  may  be  parboiled,  then  dij)  in 
flour,  with  sweet  herbs,  pej^per,  and  salt.  They  are  also 
nice  fried  with  liver. 

MUTTON". 

The  saddle  is  the  best  to  corn,  and  then  boil,  and 
eat  cold.  It  is  also  the  best  to  roast  or  fry.  It  is  also 
nice  broiled.  The  neck  is  best  made  into  soup.  For 
roasting  the  saddle,  you  can  cut  gashes,  and  fill  with  a 
stufling  made  of  bread  soaked  soft,  a  spoonful  of  butter, 
two  eggs,  with  sweet  herbs.  Kub  the  outside  with  salt, 
pepper,  clove,  and  allspice.  Put  water  in  the  dripping- 
pan,  and  baste  often.  Turn  the  bony  side  down  first, 
then  turn  after  cooking  awhile.  Allow  a  quarter  of  an 
hour  to  each  pound  ;  if  done  too  much,  it  will  be  tough. 
After  taking  up,  thicken  the  gravy  with  flour,  and  sea- 
son with  spices  and  catsup.  Wine  or  currant-jelly  is 
nice  in  the  gravy.  Celery  is  nice  to  garnish  the  dish. 
Onions  are  nice  served  with  mutton. 


30  EXCELSIOR   COOK  BOOK 

HOTCH  POTCH. 

Take  a  little  corned  beef,  or  a  ham-bone,  peas,  let- 
tuce, and  onions  in  a  little  water.  While  stewing,  fry 
some  mutton  or  lamb-steaks,  seasoned  to  a  good  brown. 
Put  the  steaks  in  a  spider,  and  turn  the  vegetables  over 
them,  and  let  them  stew  three  quarters  of  an  hour. 

MUTTON"    EOASTED. 

Take  the  fat  out  of  a  loin,  and  joint  it  at  every  bone, 

dip  it  into  the  yolks  of  three  well-beaten  eggs,  and  dip 

into  a  mixture  of  bread-crumbs,  salt,  pepper,  nutmeg, 

and  sweet  herbs ;  place  them  together  as  they  Avere 

before,  tie  them,  and  roast  quick.     Make  a  gravy,  and 

serve  hot. 

GRILLED    LAMB. 

Cut  it  in  squares,  about  an  inch  long,  (not  cut  in 
pieces,  only  hashed,)  rub  with  butter,  the  yolk  of  an 
egg,  pepper,  salt,  and  bread-crumbs,  any  kind  of  sweet 
herbs  you  like  ;  put  in  the  dripping-pan,  with  a  pint  of 
water,  and  baste  often.  It  will  not  require  much  roast- 
ing. Season  the  gravy  with  the  juice  and  grated  rind 
of  a  lemon,  and  a  spoonful  of  tomato  catsup.  It  is  also 
good  roasted,  without  the  egg. 

VENISON. 

Yenison  should  not  be  overdone,  as  it  tends  to  dry 
the  meat.  It  is  nice  fried,  broiled,  or  roasted.  In  the 
latter  case,  it  should  be  eaten  with  currant-jelly. 

CHICKENS. 

Chickens  six  months  old  are  the  best,  as  they  are 
more  tender ;  but  if  a  year  old,  they  are  still  nice.  After 
having  the  head  chopped  off,  they  should  be  hung  by 
tlie  feet,  so  as  to  bleed  freely.  When  boiled,  they 
should  always  be  put  into  cold  water,  as  they  are  less 
liable  to  break.  When  roasted,  they  should  be  stuffed, 
sewed  up,  and  laid  on  a  dripping-pan,  with  water,  and 
baste  often.  Lay  slices  of  salt  pork  on  top  while  cook- 
ing. 

FRICASSEE. 

Cut  them  up,  or  rather  joint  them;  wash  well;  then 
put  in  a  kettle — a  quart  of  water  to  a  chicken  ;  let  them 


AND   housekeeper's   AID.  31 

boil  until  half  done ;  then  put  in  a  lump  of  butter,  salt, 
and  pejDper ;  let  it  cook  down,  to  about  a  tea-cupful  of 
gravy ;  then  stir  in  flour,  wet  with  water.  Toast  bread, 
and  butter  it  ;  turn  on  boiling  water  enough  to  soak ; 
then  turn  on  the  chicken.  Pork  may  be  put  in,  instead 
of  butter,  but  it  will  require  less  salt,  and  should  be  put 
in  when  the  chicken  is  put  over,  say  two  small  slices  to 
one  chicken. 

BROILED  CHICKENS. 

Take  out  the  breast-bone,  and  beat  well ;  then  lay  on 
the  gridiron,  and  turn  a  tin  on  top ;  let  it  half  broil ; 
turn  over,  and  finish  cooking.  It  must  broil  slow,  or  it 
will  burn ;  season  with  butter,  pepper,  and  salt.  It  may 
be  fried  in  butter,  after  dipping  in  bread-crumbs  or 
flour,  or  dipped  in  egg  first. 

CHICKEN   PIE. 

It  must  be  jointed,  and  boiled  until  tender;  have  a 
pudding-dish,  lined  with  pie-crust ;  put  in  the  chicken, 
with  salt,  butter,  and  pepper ;  sprinkle  flour  over  the 
top ;  then  turn  on  the  liquor  which  the  chicken  was 
boiled  in ;  put  a  crust  on  ;  cut  in  the  middle ;  and  orna- 
ment the  top  with  jiastry.  Bake  in  a  slow  oven  an 
hour.  Any  pieces  of  cold  meat,  beef,  veal,  venison,  or 
mutton,  may  be  made  the  same. 

CHICKEN   PUDDING. 

Stew  a  pair,  as  above ;  then  take  out  of  the  liquor  to 
cool ;  then  beat  five  eggs ;  turn  in  a  quart  of  milk ;  stir 
in  a  quart  of  wheat-flour,  a  tea-spoonful  of  salt ;  cover 
the  bottom  of  the  pudding-dish ;  then  a  layer  of  chicken, 
(having  previously  seasoned  it  while  cooking,)  and  so 
on,  until  the  dish  is  filled ;  lastly,  a  layer  of  pudding. 
Bake  three  quarters  of  an  hour,  or  until  brown.  Stir 
an  egg  into  the  liquor,  which  can  be  served  hot  with 
the  pudding. 

CHICKEN  POT-PIE. 

Joint  the  chickens,  and  boil  until  tender ;  season  with 
butter,  salt,  and  joepper.  Take  an  egg  and  beat  it  light ; 
put  it  into  a  pint  of  sour  milk,  half  cream  is  better ;  if 
not,  melt  some  butter,  and  turn  in ;  stu-  in  flour,  a  tea- 


82  EXCELSIOE   COOK   BOOK 

spoonful  of  salt,  add  half  a  tea-spoonful  of  saleratus ;  stu- 
well,  and  drop  with  a  sjDOon  into  the  kettle,  while  boil- 
ing. Let  it  boil  half  an  hour,  and  take  up.  If  it  re- 
mains too  long,  the  crust  will  be  heavy.  Two  potatoes 
should  be  added  before  the  crust  is  put  in.  Another 
method,  and  still  better,  but  more  trouble  :  Take  light 
bread-dough,  and  mould  in  half  a  tea-cupful  of  butter, 
and  let  it  rise ;  then  cut  in  squares,  and  put  a  layer  of 
crust,  then  a  layer  of  chicken,  until  fdled ;  cover  the 
whole  with  a  crust.  It  may  be  made  of  cream  of  tartar, 
like  biscuits.     Veal  or  mutton  can  be  made  the  same. 

CHICKEN"    SALAD. 

Boil  chickens  tender,  and  cut  up  in  small  bits,  or 
chop  in  a  chopping-bowl.  Take  heads  of  celery  and 
chop,  then  wash  clean  in  cold  water.  Take  double  the 
quantity  of  celery  that  you  have  chicken.  Put  in  a 
dish  and  make  a  dressing  of  two  thirds  of  a  tea-cupfal 
of  vinegar,  two  eggs  beat  to  a  froth,  two  spoonfuls  of 
melted  butter,  a  tea-spoonful  of  mixed  mustard,  the 
same  of  salt,  and  a  little  black  pepper.  This  quantity 
is  for  two  chickens.  Stir  the  whole  over  a  slow  fire 
until  thick.  When  cold,  mix  with  the  chicken  and 
celery. 

KOAST    TURKET. 

Having  washed  the  turkey  clean,  prepare  the  follow- 
ing dressing :  Take  light  bread  and  soak  in  cold  water ; 
mix  a  spoonful  of  butter,  salt  and  pepper,  a  spoonful 
of  powdered  sage,  the  same  of  savory.  An  egg  makes 
the  dressing  cut  smoother.  If  you  like,  cook  the  liver, 
heart,  and  gizzard  tender,  and  chop  with  a  few  cold  po- 
tatoes. Fill  crop  first  and  sew  up,  then  the  body.  Tie 
up  the  legs  and  wings.  Rub  on  butter  and  salt.  Put  a 
tea-cupful  of  water  in  the  dripping-pan,  and  roast  from 
two  to  three  hours,  according  to  their  size  ;  baste  often. 
Make  a  gravy  when  done  of  the  drippings.  If  the  in- 
wards are  not  put  in  for  stufiing,  they  can  be  cooked 
tender  and  added  to  the  gravy. 

BOILED    TURKEY    OR    CHICKEN. 

Prepare  them  the  same  as  for  roasting.  Tie  in  a 
cloth  to  have  it  look  white.     A  bit  of  pork  boiled  with. 


AND   housekeeper's   AID.  33 

tliem  improves  the  flavor.  Use  drawn  butter  for  sauce. 
Th-e  liquor  can  be  made  into  soup.  They  should  be 
put  into  cold  water,  not  hot. 

A  very  nice  way^to  cook  turkey  or  chicken  :  Take 
a  sharp  knife,  and  "scrape  downwards.  Begin  at  the 
wings,  but  do  not  break  the  skin,  nor  tear  the  flesh. 
Loosen  the  flesh  from  breast,  back  and  thighs.  Draw 
the  skeleton  by  the  neck  from  the  flesh,  then  stufl"  with 
a  nice  dressing,  and  sew  up.  Bake  three  hours  and 
serve  cold.  This  mode  requires  some  experience,  but 
when  done  is  very  nice. 

TO  ROAST  GEESE  AND  DUCKS. 

They  should  be  put  into  boiling  water  and  stir  around 
two  or  three  minutes,  when  the  feathers  and  down 
will  come  off  as  easy  as  off  a  chicken  if  right  done. 
The  feathers  will  not  wet  through,  but  they  will  steam. 
Then  singe  by  lighting  a  bit  of  paper  and  holding  over 
until  all  the  fine  hairs  are  ofi*.  Then  dress  nicely  and 
wash  clean.  Boil  an  hour  or  more,  according  to  their 
age.  When  some  tender  take  them  out  and  have  a 
stuffing  made  as  for  a  turkey ;  fill  the  body  and  sew 
up.  Roast  a  nice  brown,  turning  on  the  water  they 
were  boiled  in.  Make  a  gravy  of  the  drippings.  Eat 
with  onions  or  apple-sauce. 

TO    ROAST    SlflPSS    OR    "WOODCOCKS. 

The  flavor  is  best  preserved  without  stuffing;  but 
flour  and  baste  until  done.  Toast  a  couj)le  of  slices  of 
bread  and  dip  in  the  dripping  to  lay  on  the  dish.  Put 
them  on  and  make  a  gravy  of  butter  and  flour.  To 
take  away  the  fishy  taste  which  some  wild  fowls  have, 
take  an  onion,  salt  and  hot  water,  and  baste  a  few 
times,  then  Avith  butter. 

TO    BOIL    A    DUCK    OR    RABBIT. 

Use  a  good  deal  of  water,  and  skim  often.  Wlien 
done  put  in  a  little  cream,  butter,  pepper,  salt,  parsley, 
chopped ;  stew  a  few  minutes,  then  add  flour  and  take 
up.  A  rabbit  is  nice  made  into  a  pot-pie  or  fricasseed 
like  chickens.  They  may  be  stufied  and  roasted,  and 
will  only  require  an  hour ;  baste  often  with  butter. 
2* 


34  EXCELSIOR   COOK   BOOK 

PIGEO]SrS. 

Make  a  dressing  as  for  a  turkey,  and  fill  and  sew  up. 
Put  tliem  in  a  pot,  breast  side  down,  season  with  salt 
and  pepper.  If  old,  they  will  require  a  great  deal  of 
cooking.  When  nearly  done,  put  in  butter  and  stew 
down.  Thicken  the  gravy  with  flour.  They  are  nice 
stewed  or  made  into  a  pot-pie,  or  made  with  a  crust 
and  baked  like  a  chicken  pie. 

TO    STE^W    BIRDS. 

Make  stuffing  of  bread,  butter  or  salt  pork,  pepper 
and  salt ;  fill  and  sew  up.  Lay  in  slices  of  bacon  or 
pork  and  a  quart  of  water.  Add  onions  and  sweet 
herbs  if  you  like.     Make  a  gravy. 

BEEP    OR    VEAL    STE'WED. 

Put  a  i^iece  of  butter  in  a  stew-pan,  cut  the  meat  in 
small  slices,  and  lay  in  with  apples  sliced  thin,  add 
pepper  and  salt.  If  liked,  add  onions.  Cover  tight 
and  stew  until  done. 

A    SAUSAGE    STEW. 

Put  a  layer  of  peeled  potatoes  sliced  in  a  kettle,  then 
a  layer  of  sausage,  then  another  layer  of  potatoes,  and 
so  on  until  all  are  in.  Season  with  2Depper  and  salt ; 
then  pour  on  water,  and  if  the  sausages  are  very  lean, 
add  bits  of  ham  or  butter.  Cook  until  the  potatoes  are 
well  cooked. 

TO    BOIL    CORISTED    BEEP. 

Put  in  cold  water  enough  to  cover  it  nicely.  Cover 
closely  and  boil  slowly.  Some  think  it  much  improved 
by  letting  it  remain  in  the  liquor  all  night.  The  liquor 
is  good  to  boil  cabbage  and  turnips,  also  potatoes. 
Corned  beef  is  the  best  for  hash. 

VEAL  OR  MUTTON"  HARICOT. 

Put  some  slices  of  veal  or  mutton  in  a  stew-pan, 
season  with  pepper  and  salt.  Drippings  or  butter 
should  be  put  in  first.  Then  add  celery,  onions,  car- 
rots ;  havmg  previously  cooked  them  tender,  add  to- 
mato catsup  and  s^^ice  if  you  like.     Let  them  stew  ten 


AND   HOUSEKEEPER'S   AID.  36 

minutes,  then  lay  the  meat  in  a  dish  and  turn  the  vege- 
tables over.     Peas  and  cucumbers  maybe  used  instead. 

VEAL    BALLS. 

Chop  cold  veal,  as  much  salt  pork,  mix  with  as  much 
bread-crumbs.  Moisten  Avith  Av^hite  wine  and  two 
eggs,  season  with  salt,  pepper,  nutmeg,  sweet  herbs. 
Make  into  balls  and  fry  in  butter.  They  should  be 
dipped  in  flour  first. 

TO    POT    VEAL. 

Take  veal  that  has  been  boiled  and  sliced,  smoked 
tongue  boiled  and  the  skin  taken  off,  also  sliced.  Pound 
each  separately  very  fine,  and  moisten  with  butter  as 
you  proceed.  Put  in  a  stone  jar  and  mix  well.  Press 
down  and  turn  on  melted  butter.  When  cut  it  must 
look  variegated.  Keep  it  covered  in  a  dry  j^lace. 
When  used  cut  in  slices.  Ham  is  nice  used  instead  of 
tongue. 

CURKIED    DISHES. 

Chickens  and  veal  are  best  for  curries.  But  they 
can  be  made,  and  are  nice,  of  mutton  chops,  pigeons, 
and  other  meats.  Chicken  should  be  jointed  and  boiled 
tender.  Take  them  up  and  put  some  butter  in  a  stew- 
pan,  fry  them  brown  ;  then  pour  on  part  of  the  liquor 
in  which  the  meat  was  boiled,  nearly  enough  to  cover 
it.  To  two  chickens  or  to  four  pounds  of  pork,  put 
in  a  tea-cupful  of  boiled  rice,  a  table-spoonful  of  curry- 
powder,  one  of  butter,  one  of  flour,  a  little  salt,  and  a 
tea-cup  of  the  liquor,  mix  all  together,  and  pour  over 
the  meat.  Let  it  cook  twenty  miimtes  slowly.  Eat 
boiled  rice  with  it. 

PHEASANTS    AISTD    PABTRIDGES. 

Stuff  and  roast  like  turkey,  and  serve  with  onions. 
They  are  nice  stewed.  When  cold,  they  may  be  made 
into  patties. 

TO    POT    BIRDS. 

Clean  them  well,  then  season  with  allspice,  mace, 
pepper  and  salt.  Rub  every  part  well,  and  lay  them 
in  a  pan,  the  breast  downwards,  and  pack  close.     Put 


86  EXCELSIOR   COOK   BOOK 

plenty  of  butter  on  them  and  make  a  coarse  flour-paste, 
with  a  paper  over,  and  bake.  When  cold  cut  into 
pieces  and  pack  close  in  a  jar.  Cover  with  butter. 
The  butter  will  answer  for  basting  or  for  meat-pies. 

GUINEA    AND    PEA    FOWTL 

are  dressed  like  a   turkey,    and  eat  very   much    like 

pheasants. 

BAKED    OR    BOASTED    PIG. 

Take  a  young  pig,  which  should  be  fat,  five  or  six 
weeks  old,  cut  off  the  first  joints,  and  wash  thoroughly 
outside  and  inside.  Prepare  a  stufiing  as  for  a  turkey. 
If  you  have  any  fresh  meat  cooked,  put  some  in  the 
dressing,  with  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  salt  pork.  Fill 
up  and  fasten  tight.  Put  it  into  a  dripping-pan,  tie 
the  legs,  and  put  a  grate  or  something  in  the  dripping 
to  keep  it  up.  Turn  in  a  pint  of  water.  Swab  every 
fifteen  minutes  with  salt  and  water.  Rub  a  little  but- 
ter over  it  to  keep  it  from  blistering.  It  must  bake 
from  two  to  three  hours.  When  done,  expose  to  the 
air  a  few  minutes  to  make  it  crispy.  Make  a  gravy  of 
flour  and  the  brains,  cooked,  if  you  like. 

BOILED    HAM. 

Take  a  ham  weighing  twenty  pounds,  and  boil  five 
hours  ;  then  take  out  and  skin  the  whole.  Put  it  in  a 
slow  oven  half  an  hour;  then  cover  it  with  bread- 
crumbs and  put  in  again ;  let  it  remain  half  an  hour 
longer.  Garnish  with  cloves.  Baking  ham  an  hour 
after  boiling  is  a  great  improvement  to  the  flavor. 

FOR  COOKING  COLD  HAM. 

Take  all  the  bits  and  pieces,  put  in  a  frying-pan ;  if 
lean,  put  in  some  butter ;  cover  close  until  warmed 
through ;  then  break  in  some  eggs,  and  stir  constantly 
until  they  are  cooked. 

BROILED    HAM. 

Cut  in  slices,  take  ofl"  the  rind  and  lay  on  the  grid- 
iron over  hot  coals  two  minutes  ;  turn  over  and  let  it 
remain  as  long ;  take  up  and  season  with  pejiper,  butter, 
and  tuTO  on  a  tablgTspoonful  of  hot  water. 


AND   housekeeper's   AID.  37 

TO   BOAST   A   SPARE   RIB. 

This  should  be  cut  thick ;  rub  flour,  salt,  sage,  and 
pepper  on  ;  lay  on  a  dripping-pan,  with  a  little  water 
in,  the  bony  side  down  ;  baste  often,  and  cook  an  hour 
and  a  half.     It  must  cook  slowly. 

TO   COOK   BOILED   HAM. 

Make  a  batter  of  eggs,  milk,  and  flour,  add  a  little 
salt,  pour  some  on  a  dripping-pan,  and  fry  three  min- 
utes, having  put  a  little  butter  in  ;  then  cover  the  batter 
with  thin  slices  of  ham,  and  pour  on  more  batter.  Let 
it  fry  until  a  nice  brown,  then  cut  in  squares,  and  turn 
over  and  let  it  fry  on  the  other  side. 

TO   KEEP   HAM. 

Cut  in  slices  to  broil  or  fry,  and  pack  in  jars  ;  heat 
lard  and  turn  on  top,  cover  close,  and  keep  in  a  cool  place. 

TO  FRY  HAM. 

Cut  in  slices  and  fry  quickly,  but  not  too  much  ;  when 
done,  take  up,  and  fry  eggs  in  the  gravy. 

SOUSE. 

Clean  pigs'  feet,  and  ears  if  you  like,  (although  there 
is  not  much  meat  on  them,)  soak  them  in  salt  and  water 
three  days,  changing  the  water  every  day ;  boil  six 
hours,  then  turn  on  hot,  sj^iced  vinegar.  Fry  in  lard  or 
eat  out  of  the  vinegar  ;  a  nicer  way  is  to  dry  them  after 
taking  out  of  the  vinegar,  and  dipping  in  a  beaten  egg, 
then  in  flour  or  bread-crumbs,  then  fry. 

HEAD-CHEESE. 

Clean  the  head,  feet,  and  bony  pieces,  after  cutting 
ofl'  sausage-meat,  and  boil  all  together  until  tender ; 
then  put  in  a  chopping-bowl  and  take  out  all  the  bones, 
chop  fine  ;  add  pepper,  salt,  sweet  herbs,  put  in  a  bag, 
put  on  a  weight,  and  let  it  remain  till  cold.  It  can  be 
eaten  cold,  sliced  up,  or  Avarmed  up  with  vinegar. 

SCRAPEIi. 

Save  the  liquor  after  boiling  the  head  and  feet,  strain 
to  get  out  all  the  bones,  take  off  some  of  the  fat,  pour 
the  liquor  back  into  the  kettle.     If  you  have  six  quarts 


38  EXCELSIOE   COOK   BOOK 

of  liquor,  add  two  quarts  of  c]iopi:)ed  meat,  season  with 
pepper  and  salt  to  the  taste  ;  Avhen  boiling  hot,  stir  in 
Indian  meal,  or  buckwheat  flour,  or  half  and  half,  just 
as  you  like.  When  as  thick  as  hasty  pudding,  take  up, 
and  when  wanted  for  use  cut  oif  slices  and  fry ;  there 
should  be  fat  enough  to  fry  itself.  This  makes  a  nice 
breakfast  dish. 

ROAST    POKE. 

Take  a  sharp  knife  and  cut  in  squares,  or  all  one  way, 
through  the  rind  ;  rub  on  salt,  pepper,  and  sage  ;  put  in 
a  dripping-pan,  with  a  cupful  of  water  ;  set  in  the  oven 
and  bake  from  two  to  three  hours.  If  a  leg  is  to  be 
baked,  take  out  the  bone,  and  fill  with  a  stuffing  of 
bread,  pepper,  salt,  and  sage  ;  fasten  it  up  ;  roast  a  fine 
brown,  and  serve  with  apple-sauce ;  make  a  gravy  of 
flour.     This  is  called  mock  goose,  and  is  very  nice. 

HAM   ROASTED. 

Make  a  stuffing  as  for  a  turkey,  take  out  the  bone 
and  fill  up  with  the  dressing,  put  into  a  dripping-pan 
with  water,  and  cook  until  tender ;  make  a  gravy  of 
flour.  It  is  better  to  boil  two  hours  in  a  cloth  before 
baking,  then  take  offi  the  skin  and  rub  bread-crumbs  on 
top. 

TO   FRY   SALT   PORK. 

Soak  in  cold  water  until  freshened  sufficient,  then  dip 
in  flour  and  fry  brown,  or  make  a  batter  and  dip  in. 
You  can  cut  it  in  slices  and  put  in  a  sj^ider,  pour  cold 
water  on  and  just  let  it  boil,  take  out  and  turn  out  the 
water,  then  put  the  meat  back  and  fry  to  a  nice  brown. 
Take  up,  and  stir  up  a  large  spoonful  of  flour  with  a 
pint  of  rich  milk,  (water  will  answer,)  and  pour  in ; 
when  thick,  take  up. 

PORK    STEAKS. 

Cut  in  slices  and  broil  the  same  as  beef,  only  slower 
and  longer.  When  done,  season  with  butter,  pej^per, 
and  salt ;  add  catsup  if  liked.  They  are  nice  fried, 
seasoned  with  sage,  pepper,  and  salt,  or  dip  in  egg  and 
flour,  like  veal  cutlets. 


A'N'D   housekeeper's   AID.  39 

A  PORK   STEW. 

Take  a  few  slices  of  fresh  pork,  a  dozen  potatoes 
pared,  put  into  a  kettle  with  water  to  cover  them ;  let 
them  cook  an  hour  and  a  half;  keep  well  covered  while 
cooking  ;  add  salt  and  pepper,  and  put  on  top  slices  of 
bread  ;  this  is  a  nice  Avay  to  use  up  the  dry  pieces  which 
may  have  been  left ;  let  it  simmer  live  minutes,  and  take 
lip.  Salt  pork  may  be  used,  but  in  that  case  no  salt 
will  be  required.  A  pie  may  be  made  of  pork  the  same 
as  a  veal  or  a  chicken  pie,  only  slice  a  few  potatoes  in. 

TO  MAKE  A  CHOWDER. 
Cut  a  few  slices  of  pork  and  fry  brown,  then  take 
them  out  and  lay  in  fish  cut  lengthwise,  then  a  layer  of 
crackers,  very  thin  sliced  potatoes,  shced  onions,  with 
some  of  the  pork,  and  then  a  layer  of  fish  again,  and  so 
on  ;  add  a  little  salt  and  pepper  over  each  layer,  also  a 
sliced  lemon ;  pour  over  the  whole  a  bowlful  of  flour 
and  water  well  stirred  up  ;  it  must  cover  the  whole ; 
cover  tight,  that  the  steam  can  not  escape ;  it  must  not 
be  opened  until  done. 

PORK  SAUSAGES. 

Take  one  third  fat  to  two  thirds  of  lean  pork ;  take 
out  all  the  bones ;  cut  in  strips,  and  run  through  a 
sausage-cutter ;  to  every  pound  of  meat,  add  a  large 
spoonful  of  sweet  herbs,  a  heaping  tea-spoonful  of  salt, 
and  the  same  of  pepper;  mix  well,  and  fill  your 
casings,  or  pack  in  jars,  turning  melted  lard  to  keep 
the  air  from  it.  When  used,  make  into  little  cakes, 
by  flouring  your  hand  to  keep  them  from  sticking; 
also,  to  make  them  fry  better.  Fry  slowly,  and  when 
done,  make  a  gravy  of  flour. 

ANOTHER   RECEIPT. 

To  twelve  pounds  of  meat,  add  twelve  large  spoon- 
fuls of  sage,  eight  of  salt,  six  of  black  pepper ;  you 
may  add  half  a  tea-cupful  of  brown  sugar,  if  you  like, 
and  a  very  little  saltpetre ;  they  will  keep  better.  It 
is  always  well  to  take  out  some  of  the  meat  after  mix- 
ing, and  fry,  and  if  not  seasoned  sufficient,  add  more. 


40  EXCELSIOR  COOK  BOOK 


BOLOGNA   SAUSAGES. 

Take  equal  quantities  of  pork,  ham,  beef  or  veal,  run 
through  a  meat-cutter ;  then  season  highly  with  salt, 
cloves,  pepper  and  allspice ;  do  not  put  in  sweet  herbs, 
as  they  will  not  keep  as  well.  Try  a  little  before  fill- 
ing the  casings ;  put  them  in  brine,  and  let  them  re- 
main nine  or  ten  days ;  then  smoke  them,  or  boil  until 
tender;  then  dry  them.  Another  method  is, 'to  boil 
beef,  chop  fine,  and  season  with  Cayenne  and  black 
23epper,  and  cloves ;  put  in  bags,  and  cut  off  for  tea. 

SAUSAGES   IN   SUMMEK. 

Chop  salt  pork  one  third,  to  two  thirds  of  beef;  sea- 
son with  salt,  pepper,  cloves,  and  allspice ;  do  up  the 
meat  into  small  cakes,  and  fry  them  brown. 

HAM    SANDWICHES. 

Spread  thin  slices  of  bread  w^ith  butter ;  lay  thin 
slices  of  boiled  ham  between ;  add  mustard,  if  you 
like.  Cold  tongue,  sliced,  will  answer.  Lay  on  plates. 
It  is  nice  for  tea  or  for  luncheon. 

A   VEAL    HASH. 

Cut  veal  into  strips,  (either  baked  or  roasted ;)  flour 
and  fry  to  a  light  broAvn,  in  butter ;  take  them  up,  and 
pour  in  a  little  water ;  season  with  salt,  catsup,  pepper, 
and  lemon-juice  ;  then  put  in  the  meat,  and  heat  hot. 

COLD   MEAT    TURNOVEKS. 

Roll  bread-dough  very  thin  ;  have  meat  chopped  fine, 
seasoned  with  pepper,  salt,  sweet  herbs  and  catsup ; 
roll  in  little  balls  ;  then  fry  in  lard  imtil  the  dough  is 
well  cooked.     The  catsup  may  be  left  out,  if  not  liked. 

POTATO   PIE. 

Take  mashed  potatoes,  seasoned,  and  line  a  baking- 
dish  ;  put  in  slices  of  cold  meats,  with  butter,  catsup, 
pepper  and  salt ;  then  potatoes,  and  so  on ;  lastly,  a 
cover  of  jpotatoes  ;  bake  until  all  warmed  through. 

A   MEAT    HASH. 

Take  six  large  tomatoes;  pour  on  boiling  water  to 
take  the  skins  off;  then  slice  them  with  or  without  au 


AND   housekeeper's   AID.  41 

onion ;  put  in  a  stew-pan,  with  a  spoonful  of  sugar,  a 
piece  of  butter,  pepper,  and  salt,  and  half  a  pint  of  cold 
water ;  shave  up  the  meat  as  thin  as  possible  ;  put  m 
a  little  flour,  and  cook  slowly  one  hour.    It  is  delicious. 

mCE  CHICKEN  PIE. 
Line  a  pudding-dish  with  slices  of  boiled  ham  ;  joint 
a  boiled  chicken,  and  put  in  ;  pour  in  melted  butter,  a 
little  cuny-powder,  or  onions  ;  fill  up  with  boiled  nee, 
and  cover  the  top  ;  pour  in  a  little  Avater  j  bake  three 
quarters  of  an  hour. 

VEAL   HASH,   ViTITH   TOAST. 

Chop  the  veal  fine,  adding  half  as  much  stale  bread 
as  meat;  put  in  a  basin,  and  turn  on  the  following 
sauce :  mix  a  tea-spoonful  of  flour  Avith  cold  water ; 
turn  on  a  tea-cupful  of  hot  water ;  let  it  boil  until  thick  ; 
two  spoonfuls  of  butter,  salt,  and  pepper :  pour  on  to 
the  meat,  and  let  it  stand  where  it  will  keep  warm ; 
toast  some  bread,  and  lay  on  a  dish ;  turn  the  hash 
over ;  cut  slices  of  lemon  to  lay  on  the  top,  and  gar- 
nish the  dish. 

BOILED   POKE. 

Take  salt  pork,  and  wash  well  in  cold  water,  and 
boil  until  the  rind  is  tender,  when  the  pork  will  be 
done  ;  skim  the  fat  ofl",  and  boil  such  vegetables  as  are 
in  the  season,  and  serve  with  it. 

LOIIT    OF   POBK. 

Cut  the  ri,nd  in  squares,  and  boil  until  almost  tender ; 
then  take  up  and  skin  ;  rub  the  yolk  of  an  egg  over  it, 
and  sprinkle  on  bread-crumbs. 

TO  DRESS  A  BUMP  OF  BEEF  A  LA  BOUILLIE. 

Take  the  high  bone  out  of  the  rump  of  beef,  and 
pour  on  a  gill  of  vinegar,  after  having  washed  it  well ; 
dredo-e  it  with  flour,  and  put  in  a  pot,  with  three  pints 
of  water,  and  put  over  the  fire  until  it  boils ;  prepare 
and  slice  potatoes,  carrots,  cabbage,  turnips,  nearly  a 
pint-bowl  of  each ;  two  onions  sliced,  and  a  sprig  ot 
sweet  marjoram  ;  put  into  the  pot,  with  a  table-spoon- 
ful of  pepper,  and  two  of  salt;  when  boiled,  set  where 


42  EXCELSIOR   COOK  BOOK 

it  ^vill  just  stew,  five  hours,  frequently  turning  it,  as 
there  will  not  be  liquor  enough  to  cover  it.  Pickled 
capers  and  cucumbers  are  a  great  improvement  to  the 
sauce. 

KISSOLES. 

Mince  fine  a  quarter  of  a  poimd  of  any  kind  of  cold 
meat ;  add  a  table-spoonful  of  suet  or  butter,  and  as 
much  of  bread-crumbs,  pepper,  salt,  lemon-peel,  parsley 
and  spice,  if  you  like ;  mix  all  together  with  two 
whites  of  an  egg  with  a  little  gravy;  make  into  balls, 
and  fry  a  light  brown ;  or  omit  the  bread-crumbs,  and 
put  between  a  puff-paste,  cut  round ;  do  them  over 
with  eggs  and  bread-crumbs  ;  then  fry  a  light  brown. 
Serve  on  a  napkin. 

A  EICH   CHICKEIT   PUDDUyTG. 

Cut  up  a  pair  of  chickens,  and  put  into  a  pot,  with 
just  water  enough  to  cover  them ;  put  in  two  table- 
spoonfuls  of  butter,  pepper,  salt,  mace  and  nutmeg ; 
stew  gently  until  half  tender,  or  a  little  more ;  then 
take  them  out,  and  set  away  to  cool ;  reserve  the  gravy 
to  be  served  up  separately;  make  a  batter  of  six 
eggs,  well  beaten ;  a  pound  of  sifted  flour  stirred  into 
a  quart  of  milk ;  add  a  little  salt ;  put  a  layer  of 
chicken  in  a  pudding- dish ;  turn  on  some  of  the  bat- 
ter, then  a  layer  of  chicken,  and  so  on,  until  full,  hav- 
ing a  layer  of  pudding  on  top ;  bake  until  brown ; 
break  an  egg  into  the  gravy,  and  boil  i\^  ;  then  serve 
with  the  pudding 

OYSTER    SAUSAGES. 

Beard  three  dozen  of  oysters,  and  chop  up,  but  not 
too  fine  ;  add  half  a  pound  of  fine  bread-crumbs ;  the 
same  of  suet,  chopped  fine ;  a  tea-spoonful  of  mace,  a 
salt-spoonful  of  salt,  pepper,  and  the  same  quantity  of 
Cayenne ;  moisten  the  whole  with  the  yolks  of  three 
unbeaten  eggs  and  the  wliites  of  one ;  work  well  to- 
gether, and  let  it  remain  three  or  four  liours  before 
using;  make  up  in  little  cakes,  and  flour  well;  then 
fry  in  butter  to  a  light  brown. 


AND   HOUSEKEEPER'S   AID.  43 

BEEF    GOBBETS. 

Take  fresli  beef,  and  cut  into  pieces  tbe  size  of  an 
egg ;  put  into  a  kettle  of  water,  and  when  it  boils  take 
off  the  scum ;  then  put  in  cloves,  mace,  allspice,  and 
whole  pepper,  tied  in  a  bit  of  muslin  ;  six  heads  of 
celery  cut  an  inch  long ;  a  carrot  cut  in  slices ;  two 
turnips,  cut  small;  a  bundle  of  sweet  herbs,  pepper 
and  salt,  and  a  crust  of  bread ;  stew  till  the  meat  is 
tender ;  then  take  out  the  spice  and  herbs  ;  have  some 
French  rolls  crisped  before  the  fire ;  put  them  in  a 
dish,  and  put  the  meat  over  them. 

MOCK   GOOSE,   Oil   LEG   OF   POKK. 

Parboil  it ;  take  off  the  skin,  and  put  it  down  to 
roast ;  baste  it  with  butter,  and  make  a  savory  pow- 
der of  finely  minced  or  dried  and  powdered  sage, 
ground  black  pepper,  salt,  bread-crumbs  rubbed  to- 
gether through  a  colander ;  add  a  little  finely-minced 
onion ;  sprinkle  it  with  this  when  nearly  done ;  put 
half  a  pint  of  made  gravy  into  the  dish,  and  a  goose- 
stufiing,  under  the  knuckle-skin,  or  garnish  the  dish 
with  balls  of  some  of  it,  fried. 

HAM   "WITH   MADEIKA. 

Soak  in  water  a  ham  two  hours,  then  boil  it  two 
hours ;  take  off"  the  skin,  and  put  it  into  a  stew-pan, 
with  thin  slices  of  veal  at  the  bottom;  add  carrots 
and  parsley,  and  season  with  spices ;  pour  over  it  a 
pint  of  rich  stock,  and  a  pint  of  Madeira,  and  boil  two 
hours  ;  then  strain  and  take  the  fat  off  the  sauce,  and 
serve  hot. 

LOAF    HAM. 

Soak  a  ham  in  cold  water  a  day ;  then  put  it  into  a 
kettle,  with  no  more  water  than  will  cover  it,  and  add 
a  pint  of  wine ;  skim  it  carefully  till  done  ;  when  done, 
take  out  the  bones,  remove  the  skin,  pare  off  some  of 
tlie  fat ;  make  a  force  of  the  fat,  with  veal  or  game, 
and  sweet  herbs  pounded,  and  all  mhiced  fine ;  line  a 
pan  with  quite  thick  paste  ;  then  cut  your  ham  in  thin 
slices,  and  place  alternate  layers  of  it  and  of  the  force 


44  EXCELSIOll   COOK   BOOK 

in  the  pan,  till  nearly  full ;  put  a  crust  over  the  top, 
and  bake  nearly  two  hours. 

CHICKEITS   FRIED.    NO.   2. 

Cut  up  a  chicken  in  quarters ;  take  off  the  skin,  and 
dip  in  beaten  egg;  cover  with  grated  bread;  season 
with  salt,  pepper,  grated  lemon-peel,  chopped  parsley  ; 
fry  in  butter ;  thicken  a  little  brown  gravy  wdth  flour, 
and  add  lemon,  pickle  and  mushroom  catsup,  if  you 
like. 

CHICKENS   AND   OYSTEKS. 

Fill  young  chickens  with  oysters,  cut  small,  parsley, 
spices  and  truffles  ;  then  roast  them ;  blanch  two  dozen 
oysters,  and  toss  them  up  with  melted  butter  and  chop- 
ped herbs ;  w^hen  they  have  been  on  half  an  hour,  add 
a  glass  of  Avhite  wine  and  half  a  glass  of  good  stock ; 
thicken  it  over  the  fire,  and  when  the  chickens  are 
done,  pour  the  sauce  over  them,  and  garnish  the  dish 
with  the  oysters  and  lemon.  A  turkey  may  be  dressed 
in  the  same  way. 

FRIED    CHICKEN.    NO.   1. 

Cut  in  pieces,  and  fry  in  butter  until  cooked  through ; 
season  with  pepper  and  salt ;  then  beat  an  egg  light, 
dip  the  chicken  in,  then  in  flour,  and  fry  brown. 

FROGS. 

The  hind-quarters  only  are  used ;  they  should  be 
seasoned  w^ith  pepper  and  salt,  and  fried  in  butter,  after 
rolling  in  flour.  Another  way  is  to  fricassee  them,  and 
make  a  gravy  of  flour  and  butter. 

A  UNION    DISH. 

Chop  up  cold  beef  or  veal ;  season  with  pepper  and 
salt,  adding  a  piece  of  butter,  and  gravy,  if  you  have 
it,  if  not,  pour  in  a  little  water ;  then  put  on  a  covering 
of  mashed  potatoes,  and  bake  three  quarters  of  an  hour. 

MEAT    CAKES. 

Take  whatever  meat  you  may  have,  game  or  poultry, 
— it  is  better  for  being  under-done — mince  it  fine,  add- 
ing a  little  salt  pork,  or  ham,  or  anchovy ;  season  with 


AND   housekeeper's   AID.  45 

pepper  and  salt ;  mix  together,  and  make  into  small 
cakes,  about  three  inches  in  length,  and  an  inch  and  a 
half  in  width,  and  half  an  inch  thick ;  fry  them  of  a 
light  brown,  and  serve  with  a  good  gravy ;  or  they 
may  be  baked. 

TO    MINCE    VEAIi. 

Chop  cold  roast  veal,  add  a  little  nutmeg,  lemon-peel, 
(shred,)  salt,  and  four  or  five  spoonfuls  of  broth,  milk, 
or  water ;  simmer  gently,  but  do  not  let  it  boil ;  add  a 
bit  of  butter,  rolled  in  flour;  put  pieces  of  thin  toasted 
bread,  cut  into  a  three-cornered  shape,  round  the  dish. 
Fried  crumbs  of  bread,  strewed  lightly  over,  is  an  im- 
provement to  the  look  and  flavor. 

MATELOTE    MEAT. 

Take  equal  quantities  of  beef,  veal,  pork,  and  mut- 
ton, a  slice  each,  and  a  small  leg  of  lamb,  cut  them  in 
small  pieces,  which  put  into  a  saucepan  with  equal 
quantities  of  stock  and  champagne,  salt  and  pepper ; 
cover  close,  and  set  them  on  hot  ashes  six  hours,  then 
serve. 

MINUTE    DISH. 

Cut  thin  slices  of  veal,  and  about  four  inches  long ; 
season  with  pepper  and  salt ;  lay  them  in  a  deep  dish, 
pour  over  them  half  a  pint  of  wine,  let  it  stand  three 
hours ;  cover  the  bottom  of  the  stewpan  with  butter, 
and  dredge  each  piece  of  the  veal  with  flour ;  add  a 
little  more  white  wine  and  as  much  good  stock  as  will 
cover  it,  and  the  juice  of  a  lemon ;  cover  the  pan  closely 
and  let  it  simmer  five  minutes,  and  remove  instantly, 
or  it  will  become  hard. 

CHICKEN   SALAD.    NO.  2. 

Chop  the  white  meat  of  three  boiled  chickens,  the 
same  quantity  of  salad  not  too  fine,  mash  the  yolks  of 
ten  hard-boiled  eggs,  and  chop  the  whites  of  the  eggs 
very  fine ;  mix  half  a  tea-cup  of  mustard,  and  stir  in 
gradually,  with  melted  butter,  into  the  yolks,  then  add 
the  whites ;  just  before  serving,  add  salt,  and  pour  over 
the  chicken  and  celery;  add  vinegar.  Lobster  salad 
is  made  in  the  same  way.      Salads  may  be  made  of 


46  EXCELSIOR   COOK   BOOK 

almost  any  kind  of  meat  or  vegetables.      Extract  of 
celery  may  be  used  if  the  vegetable  can  not  be  procm'ed. 

PICKLED    BEEF. 

Take  beef,  and  season  with  salt,  pepper,  and  stick  it 
full  of  cloves ;  cover  the  meat  with  good  vinegar,  let  it 
remain  a  fortnight,  turning  it  every  day  and  keeping  it 
well  covered  with  vinegar ;  then  put  it  in  a  stewpan 
with  vinegar  and  water,  cover  tight,  and  if  a  large  piece, 
stew  six  hours.     Eat  with  cooked  onions.     Good  cold. 

AM"  EXTEA    METHOD   OF   COOKING  SIRLOIN. 

Take  about  two  or  three  pounds,  boil  in  one  pint  of 
water,  with  pepper  and  salt,  till  done ;  then  roll  in  a 
mixture  of  butter,  sweet  herbs,  parsley,  shallots  and 
crumbs  of  bread,  all  minced  fine,  and  put  in  buttered 
pajDcr ;  twist  the  ends,  and  broil  over  hot  coals,  with 
another  sheet  of  paper  laid  on  the  gridiron. 

TONGUE. 

Tongue  may  be  corned  and  smoked,  or  boiled  and 
sliced  cold  for  tea  or  sandwiches.  It  may  be  stewed 
or  stufied,  or  it  may  be  boiled,  then  sliced  and  mixed 
with  bread-crumbs,  sweet  herbs,  pepper  and  salt,  and 
baked. 

FBICASSEE  TBIPE. 

Having  it  nicely  dressed  and  cut  in  squares,  then  put 
in  a  stewpan  with  a  little  water ;  and  add  cream  and 
butter  with  flour  made  smooth  just  before  taking  up. 
It  does  not  require  cooking  long.  It  is  nice  rolled  in 
bread-crumbs  and  fried  in  butter  or  drippings,  or  dip- 
ped in  egg  and  then  in  flour  or  crumbs,  and  fried. 

BEEF    RISSOLES.    NO.  2. 

Chop  a  pound  of  lean  tender  beef,  and  a  quarter  of  a 
pound  of  suet ;  pound  well  together,  and  mix  a  quarter 
of  a  pound  of  bread-crumbs,  a  little  onion,  a  head  of 
garlic  bruised ;  season  with  salt  and  pepper,  then  beat 
three  eggs  light,  and  mix  in ;  make  in  small  cakes  and 
fry  of  a  light  brown,  then  stew  them  in  gi'avy  fifteen  or 
twenty  minutes. 


AND   housekeeper's   AID.  47 

FRENCH    VEAL     CUTLETS 

Cut  from  the  loin  and  cover  with  a  mixture  of  bread- 
crumbs, onions,  parsley,  salt,  pepper,  and  an  egg  well 
beaten ;  butter  foolscap  paper,  and  inclose  each  cutlet, 
twisting  the  paper  at  each  end ;  broil  slowly  on  the 
£»Tidiron,  then  turn  over  to  cook  on  the  other  side. 
V  eal-steak  may  be  cooked  in  the  same  way. 

VEAL    A    LA   MODE. 

Take  a  round  of  veal,  and  lard  closely  with  fat  pork 
cut  thin ;  season,  salt,  pepper,  and  spices ;  put  in  a 
large  stewpan  with  water  and  a  little  butter;  stew 
gently  three  or  four  hours.  It  may  be  put  in  a  deep 
dish  and  baked,  in  which  case  it  should  have  a  cover  of 
paste,  made  of  flour  and  water. 

FRICANDEAU   OF  VEAL. 

Take  a  fillet  of  veal,  or  a  round  slice  from  the  leg 
two  inches  thick,  lard  it  with  thin  slices  of  pork  pre- 
viously seasoned  with  salt,  pepper,  sweet  herbs,  and 
spices  ;  blanch  the  whole  in  boiling  water,  then  put  it 
in  a  stewpan  with  boiling  water,  well  seasoning  the 
meat,  and  cook  slowly  till  done.  Put  it  in  a  dish, 
strain  the  gravy,  take  off  the  grease,  and  boil  down ; 
put  in  the  veal  on  the  larded  side,  and  glaze  well ; 
when  of  a  good  brown,  take  up  and  cover  with  what 
gravy  you  have  left.     Good  cold. 

TO   COLLAR  VEAL. 

Take  the  bone  out  of  a  breast  of  veal,  and  beat  it 
flat;  cover  the  inside  with  a  nice  stuffing,  moistened 
with  eggs ;  roll  tightly  and  bind  it,  bake  in  an  oven, 
with  some  weak  stock  in  the  dish ;  when  done  make  a 
gravy  with  flour  and  pour  over  the  veal.  Serve  with 
force-meat  balls  or  without,  and  garnish  with  cut  lemon. 

VEAL,    COLD    DRESSED. 

Mince  cold  roast  veal,  and  season  with  pepper,  salt, 
nutmeg  and  lemon-peel,  moisten  it  with  white  stock 
and  a  beaten  egg;  butter  a  pudding-dish,  put  in  the 
meat,  press  it  firmly,  cover  tightly,  and  set  it  in  a  pan 
of  boiling  water,  let  it  stand  an.  hour  or  two ;  serve  it 


46  BXCELSIOE   COOK   BOOK 

with  a  white  gravy  thickened,  or  rub  it  over  the  top 
with  the  beaten  yolk  of  an  egg ;  sift  bread-crumbs 
thickly  over  it  and  brown  in  an  oven ;  baste  with  melted 
butter ;  garnish  with  fried  parsley  or  cut  lemon. 

VEAL    LEG    IKT    SUBPRISE. 

Lard  the  veal  with  slips  of  fat  pork,  and  a  littlo 
lemon-peel  cut  very  thin ;  make  a  stuf&ng  as  for  a  fillet 
of  veal,  only  add  half  a  pint  of  oysters  chopped  small ; 
stuff  your  veal  and  stew  gently  (with  just  sufficient 
to  cover  it)  till  tender,  then  take  up,  and  skim  off  the 
fat,  and  add  lemon-juice,  mushroom  catsup,  crumbs  of 
bread  grated  fine,  half  a  pint  of  oysters,  the  same  of 
cream,  and  a  piece  of  butter  rolled  in  flour ;  thicken 
this  over  the  fire  and  serve  with  the  veal ;  garnish  the 
dish  with  oysters,  dipped  in  butter  and  fried,  and  thin 
slices  of  broiled  ham. 

MIWCED    COLLOPS. 

Take  raw  beef  and  chop  very  fine,  pepper  and  salt  it, 
then  pan  in  small  jars  and  pour  clarified  butter  over  it. 
When  used  put  the  butter  into  a  stewpan,  and  slice 
some  onioas  into  the  pan  and  fry  them ;  add  a  little 
Avater  to  it,  and  put  in  the  meat.  Stew  it  well,  and  in 
a  few  minutes  it  will  be  fit  to  serve.  This  is  a  Scotch 
dish,  and  will  keep  well  and  always  be  ready  for  use. 

MUTTOTT    CUTLETS. 

Cut  the  thickest  part  of  a  leg  of  mutton  into  cutlets ; 
beat  well.  Mix  grated  bread-crumbs,  pepper,  salt, 
(and  if  liked)  finely  chopped  parsley  and  sweet  mar- 
joram. Dip  the  cutlets  into  melted  butter  and  cover 
with  the  bread ;  then  fry  in  butter  or  drippings  ten  or 
fifteen  minutes. 

MUTTON"    LEG    STUFFED. 

Make  a  stuffing  with  beef  suet  chopped,  pepper,  salt, 
sweet  herbs,  a  little  lemon  grated,  nutmeg,  if  you  like, 
and  a  few  bread-crumbs,  mix  all  together  with  the 
yolk  of  an  egg,  put  this  under  the  skin  in  the  thickest 
part  of  a  leg  of  mutton  under  the  flap,  then  roast  it 
and  serve  it  with  gravy  in  the  dish. 


AND   housekeeper's   AID.  49 

MUTTON    LEG    STUFFED    ^WITH    OYSTERS. 

Make  a  force-meat  of  beef  suet  chopped,  the  yolks  of 
hard-boiled  eggs,  thyme,  savory,  a  little  onion  with 
three  anchovies,  (or  not,  just  as  you  like,)  a  dozen  oys- 
ters cut  fine,  pepper,  salt,  grated  nutmeg,  crumbs  of 
bread,  mixed  up  with  raw  eggs.  Put  this  force-meat 
under  the  skin  in  the  thickest  part  of  the  leg  of  mutton, 
under  the  flap  and  at  the  knuckle.  For  sauce,  some 
oyster-liquor,  a  little  red  wine,  an  anchovy,  some  more 
oysters  stewed  and  served  under  the  mutton. 

MUTTON"    STEAKS    BROILED. 

Cut  from  the  thickest  part  of  the  mutton  half  an  inch 
thick,  beat  well,  and  as  soon  as  the  gridiron  is  hot  rub 
it  with  a  little  suet,  lay  on  the  steaks  and  turn  fre- 
quently until  done  ;  then  put  them  in  a  hot  dish,  adding 
pepper,  salt,  and  butter ;  add  a  little  catsup  or  tomatoes 
cooked  if  desired,  and  send  hot  to  the  table. 

TO    COOK    MUTTON"    HAM. 

If  it  has  been  smoked,  soak  several  hours  in  cold 
water,  then  put  into  cold  water  and  boil  gently  two 
hours.    It  is  nice  eaten  cold  for  breakfast,  luncheon  or 

MUTTONT    CHOPS. 

Cut  the  chops  off  a  loin  or  the  best  end  of  a  neck  of 
mutton,  pare  off  the  fat,  then  dip  them  into  the  yolk  of 
eggs  beaten,  and  strew  over  them  grated  bread  seasoned 
with  pepper,  salt,  and  parsley  ;  fry  them  in  butter  and 
lay  them  upon  the  back  of  a  sieve  before  the  fire  to 
drain.  Thicken  the  gravy,  add  a  table-spoonful  of  cat- 
sup and  one  of  port  wine ;  put  the  gravy  into  the  dish 
and  lay  in  the  chops  ;  garnish  with  fried  parsley  or  cut 
lemon. 

HUNG    MUTg?ON. 

Take  a  leg  of  mutton,  rub  well  with  pepper,  salt, 
sweet  herbs  and  vinegar ;  let  it  hang  three  or  four  days 
in  a  dry,  cool  place,  then  roast,  basting  with  vinegar, 
water,  and  sweet  herbs.  Strain  the  gravy  and  stir  in 
flour,  butter,  and  currant-jelly.  Serve  in  a  boat. 
3 


50  EXCELSIOR  COOK   BOOK 

SHOULDER  OF  MUTTON  A  LA  TURQUB. 

Boil  a  shoulder  of  mutton  in  sufficient  water  to 
cover.  Season  with  cloves,  sweet  herbs,  shallots,  gar- 
lic, carrots,  celery,  parsley,  pepper  and  salt.  When 
done  take  out  the  meat  and  place  over  a  kettle  of  hot 
water  to  keep  it  warm.  Strain  the  broth  and  add  one 
tea-cupful  of  rice,  and  boil  till  thick.  Place  the  meat 
in  a  dish,  cover  over  with  cooked  rice  and  brown  in 
the  oven.  Mix  two  tea-spoonfuls  of  curry-powder  in 
the  broth  after  straining. 

HARICOT    OF    MUTTON". 

Take  a  shoulder  of  mutton,  cut  in  strips  or  pieces 
two  or  three  inches  long;  have  a  stewpan  ready  with 
a  piece  of  butter  and  a  table-spoonful  of  flour ;  brown 
it,  and  then  put  in  the  meat;  stir  around,  and  add  a 
pint  of  water ;  season  with  pepper,  salt,  and  sweet 
herbs.  Boil  slowly.  If  too  fat,  skim  and  then  add 
turnips  pared  and  cut  in  quarters.  Stew  till  done. 
Serve  in  a  deep  platter,  placing  the  turnips  round  the 
meat ;  pour  the  gravy  over. 

MUTTON   LEG   STUFFED.    NO.    2. 

Take  a  leg  of  mutton,  cut  off  the  fat,  take  out  the 
bone,  preserve  the  skin  whole,  mince  the  meat  fine ; 
add  about  a  ^^ound  of  fat  pork  and  some  parsley,  sea- 
son with  pepper  and  salt,  then  put  the  meat  into  the 
skin  and  sew  up  on  the  under  side ;  put  it  into  a  stew- 
pan  with  some  gravy  made  from  the  bones,  two  or 
three  slices  of  veal,  some  sliced  carrots  and  onions,  a 
bunch  of  parsley,  and  a  fcAv  slices  of  pork.  Stew  three 
or  four  liours  and  drain  the  liquor  through  a  sieve ; 
when  reduced  to  a  glaze,  glaze  the  mutton  with  it  and 
serve  in  stewed  French  beans. 

MUTTON   SAUSAGES. 

Take  pieces  of  cold  mutton,  some  suet,  two  ancho- 
vies, one  pint  of  oysters,  mince  the  whole  very  fine. 
Season  with  pepper,  salt,  mace  or  nutmeg,  and  add 
two  well-beaten  eggs,  and  four  ounces  of  bread-crumbs. 
Put  in  a  jar  and  press  down.  Keep  in  a  dry,  cool 
place,  and  when  used  roll  in  cakes  and  fry  brown. 


AND   housekeeper's   AID.  51 

KOAST    LAMB. 

Take  the  leg  of  a  lamb,  rub  on  pepper,  salt,  and  flour ; 
lay  in  a  dripping-pan  with  water,  and  roast  from  one  to 
two  hours  ;  then  make  a  gravy.  It  is  nice  larded  with 
pork.  Mutton  is  very  nice  roasted  down  in  a  ketttle  ; 
boil  tender  first  and  season. 

MUTTON   WITH    CKEAM. 

Stew  some  steaks  in  milk  and  water' till  tender,  then 
season  with  pepper,  salt,  and  mace  if  you  like.  Make 
smooth  a  spoonful  of  flour,  and  add  some  cream.  Scald 
up  and  send  to  the  table. 

MUTTOW   FILLET    STEWED. 

Put  a  fillet  of  mutton  or  beef,  weighing  seven  pounds, 
into  a  stewpan  with  a  carrot,  a  turnip,  and  an  onion 
with  three  or  four  cloves  stuck  in  it,  and  a  quart  of 
water ;  season  with  pepper  and  salt.  Cover  close  and 
stew  from  three  to  four  hours,  then  take  out  the  meat 
and  strain  the  gravy ;  thicken  with  flour  and  garnish 
with  sliced  gherkins.  It  is  nice  stewed  without  the 
vegetables. 

MINCED    MUTTON. 

Take  the  meat  of  the  neck,  mince  fine,  and  add  two 
onions,  a  few  green  peas,  a  piece  of  butter,  a  gill  of 
water,  pepper  and  salt.  Simmer  slowly  two  hours, 
keeping  it  well  covered.  Have  ready  some  rice  boiled 
dry.  Put  in  a  deep  dish  and  dress  on  top  with  the 
rice. 

A    SHOULDER    OF    LAMB. 

Boil  till  tender,  then  take  out  the  bones  and  broil ; 
season  with  butter,  pepper,  and  salt.  Send  to  the  table 
hot. 

ROLLED  MUTTON. 

Take  out  the  bone  of  a  shoulder  carefully,  so  as  not 
to  injure  the  skin,  mince  the  meat  very  fine  ;  season 
highly  with  pepper,  salt,  sweet  herbs,  or  any  thing  you 
like,  roll  very  tightly  in  the  skin,  tie  it  round,  and  bake 
from  two  to  three  liours  in  a  dripping-pan  with  a  little 
water  in  ;  serve  with  a  gravy. 


62  EXCELSIOK   COOK   BOOK 

BEEF   BAKED  'WITH   POTATOES. 

Boil  peeled  potatoes  and  mash  them  with  two  small 
onions,  moisten  them  with  an  egg  beaten,  and  a  little 
milk,  add  salt  and  pepper.  Season  slices  of  beef  or 
mutton  chops  with  salt  and  pepper,  rub  the  bottom  of 
a  pudding-dish  with  butter,  and  put  a  laying  of  mashed 
potatoes,  then  a  laying  of  meat,  and  so  alternately  till 
the  dish  is  filled,  ending  with  potatoes.  Bake  one  hour 
in  an  oven. 

CORIfED   BEEF.      NO.  2. 

Cover  with  water  after  washing  it,  and  boil  slowly 
from  three  to  four  hours,  according  to  the  size ;  vege- 
tables or  dumplings  may  be  served  with  it. 

BEEFSTEAK  PUDDING. 

Take  nice  steaks,  season  with  pepper,  salt,  and  butter, 
roll  in  a  good  soda  biscuit  crust,  and  boil  two  hours. 

BEEF  LIVER.      NO.   2. 

Scald  the  liver  in  two  or  three  waters  for  an  hour, 
then  cut  in  slices,  wipe  dry  ;  dredge  with  flour,  pepper, 
and  salt,  and  fry  in  pork  drippings.  Serve  hot  and 
garnish  with  fried  potatoes. 

BCEUF  A  LA  MODE. 

Take  six  or  eight  pounds  of  good  tender  beef,  lard 
it  with  thin  strips  of  fat  pork,  which  has  been  season- 
ed with  sweet  herbs,  cloves,  pepper,  and  salt.  Put  in 
a  stewpan  one  glass  of  wine,  water  or  tomato  juice, 
six  small  peeled  onions,  and  six  carrots,  put  the  meat 
on  top  of  all  this,  cover  tight,  and  stew  five  or  six 
hours  slowly ;  serve  all  together  in  a  deep  dish. 

PRESSED   BEEF.     NO.   1. 

Take  a  flank  or  piece  of  brisket,  rub  with  a  mixture 
of  salt,  a  little  saltpetre,  spices  and  sugar ;  let  it  re- 
main a  few  days,  then  boil  slowly  till  tender ;  press 
under  a  weight  till  cold.  Slice  ofi"  and  cut  as  headcheese 
or  sandwiches. 

PRESSED    BEEF.      NO.   2. 

Take  a  piece  of  beef  near  the  neck,  wash  clean  and 
boil  till  tender,  take  out  the  bones,  mince  the  meat, 


AND    housekeeper's   AID.  53 

season  with  salt  and  pepper,  spices  if  liked,  add  some 
of  the  liquor  to  make  quite  soft,  then  press  as  head- 
cheese.    Serve  cold,  sliced,  or  in  sandwiches. 

BEEF    A  LA   MUSKMELON. 

Take  cold  beef  or  any  other  cold  meat,  mince  it  with 
cold  potatoes,  sweet  herbs,  pepper,  salt,  and  onions  if 
desired,  add  two  well-beaten  eggs  and  flour  enough  to 
mould  as  a  melon,  put  it  in  a  dripping-pan  with  butter 
or  drippings,  and  baste  occasionally ;  bake  one  hour. 

BEEP   BALLS. 

Mince  good  tender  beef,  lean  and  fat,  add  grated 
bread-crumb?,  season  with  salt  and  pepper,  moisten 
with  beaten  eggs,  roll  it  into  balls,  flour,  and  fry  them 
in  hot  drippings.  Serve  with  fried  bread-crumbs  or 
with  a  thickened  gravy.  Spices  and  lemon-peel  may  be 
added  if  liked. 

TO    WARM    COLD    STEAKS. 

Lay  pieces  of  cold  steak  in  a  steW23an,  slice  up  an 
onion,  add  six  berries  of  allspice,  the  same  of  black 
pepper,  pour  on  a  little  water,  cover  tight,  and  stew 
one  hour  gently ;  thicken  the  liquor  with  butter  and 
flour  rubbed  together  ;  take  all  up  together  on  the  same 
dish. 

JELLIED    BEEF    A    LA  MODE. 

Take  six  or  eight  pounds  of  beef,  a  knuckle  of  veal, 
lard  it  with  fat  pork,  previously  seasoning  the  pork 
with  spices  and  sweet  herbs.  Put  the  meat  in  a  large 
stewpan  with  water,  pepper,  and  salt,  cover  closely 
and  simmer  three  hours,  then  add  two  carrots,  and  two 
onions  cut  in  slices,  and  boil  two  or  three  hours  more ; 
when  done,  take  up  the  meat,  and  clarify  the  gravy 
with  the  white  of  an  egg,  boil  a  few  minutes  and  pour 
it  over  the  meat.  To  be  eaten  cold.  Wine  can  be  added 
if  liked.     It  is  an  elegant  dish. 

VEAL    A   LA    FRAI^CAISE. 

Take  a  breast  of  veal,  put  in  a  deep  dish  with  a  pint 
of  water,  a  table-spoonful  of  vinegar,  salt,  pepper,  shal- 
lots, parsley,  a  bay-leaf,  a  clove  of  garlic,  three  cloves 


64  EXCELSIOR  COOK   BOOK 

and  two  carrots ;  cover  tight  with  paste  around  to  keep 
close,  bake  three  hours  in  a  moderate  oven. 

COLD  VEAL. 

Cut  veal  in  small  pieces,  with  onions,  pork  and  a 
little  veal-gravy  or  water,  pepper,  and  salt ;  have  ready 
some  mashed  i^otatoes,  in  which  put  cream,  pepper, 
salt,  and  one  egg  ;  put  the  meat  in  a  deep  dish,  and  put 
the  potatoes  on  top,  raising  it  from  the  sides  in  the  shape 
of  a  pyramid ;  smooth  nicely  and  bake  brown.  An- 
other Avay  is  to  mince  cold  veal  with  ham,  season  and 
roll  in  good  paste,  in  the  form  of  a  ball,  then  fry  in  hot 
drippings. 

MAKBLED   PRESSED  VEAL. 

Take  equal  quantities  of  cold  veal,  and  boiled  tongue, 
pound  separately  in  a  mortar,  adding  melted  butter 
as  you  proceed  ;  have  a  mould  ready,  and  put  in  alter- 
nate layers  of  veal  and  tongue,  till  used  up ;  let  veal 
be  the  last  layer ;  cover  with  melted  butter.  ^Yhen 
pressed  it  is  ready  for  use.  Cut  in  slices,  makes  good 
sandwiches. 

VEAL  CONES. 

Mince  a  pound  and  a  half  of  veal,  one  slice  of  ham, 
two  ounces  of  butter,  pound  them  in  a  mortar,  and  mix 
five  table-spoonfuls  of  cream,  two  tea-spoonfuls  of  pep- 
per, one  of  salt,  and  some  grated  lemon-peel,  make  it 
up  into  cones  about  three  inches  high,  mb  them  with 
an  egg  beaten  up,  sift  grated  bread-crumbs  over  them, 
and  fry  them  of  a  light  brown  ;  put  fried  bread-crumbs 
in  a  dish  and  place  the  cones  upon  them,  or  serve  with 
a  brown  gravy  instead  of  the  crumbs.  Cold  fowl  or 
rabbit  makes  nice  cones. 

VEAL  PATTIES. 

Mince  some  imder-done  veal  with  a  little  parsley, 
onions,  and  sage  leaves ;  season  with  lemon-peel,  nut- 
meg,  pepper,  and  salt ;  moisten  with  a  little  gravy,  heat 
it  up  and  put  into  the  patties. 

A  JERSEY  DISH. 

Tal^e  fresh  pork  and  put  in  a  bake-oven,  or  stewpan, 
season  with  salt  and  pepper,  cover  over  with  apples 


AND   HOUSEKEEPER'S   AID.  55 

wMcli  have  been  peeled,  quartered,  and  cored,  (pippins 
are  best,)  cover  tightly,  then  stew  gently  three  hours. 

ROLLED  PORK. 

Take  the  neck,  or  backbone;  take  out  the  bones; 
make  a  dressing,  as  for  a  goose,  and  roll  in  the  meat ; 
tie  firmly ;  roast  or  bake ;  baste  with  melted  butter, 
flour,  and  water. 

TO  ROAST  A  HAUNCH  OP  VENISON. 
Rub  well  with  warm  water,  then  with  port  wine  or 
claret ;  put  buttered  paper  around,  to  prevent  its  scorch- 
ing ;  secure  the  paper  with  pack-thread,  soaked  in  water ; 
roast  as  you  would  a  sirloin  of  beef,  or  bake  ;  baste  with 
wine  and  water,  or  currant-jelly ;  season  with  pepper 
and  salt ;  cook  about  three  hours.  Before  serving,  baste 
with  butter  and  flour  to  froth  it ;  trim  the  venison  with 
paper.     Eat  with  cranberry  sauce  or  currant-jelly. 

VENISON   HASH. 

Take  some  of  the  gravy  which  it  has  previously  been 
cooked  in,  if  not,  use  water ;  add  butter  and  a  little 
flour  made  smooth,  currant-jelly ;  let  it  boil  up ;  then 
put  in  the  minced  venison,  and  when  warm,  take  up.  If 
it  boils  it  will  be  tough. 

SQUIRRELS  STE^WED. 
Parboil,  and  wipe  dry ;  then  put  in  another  water, 
and  stew  till  most  dry ;  then  season  with  butter,  pepper, 
and  salt ;  thicken  the  gravy  with  flour,  made  smooth. 
Kabbit  stewed  the  same  way.  They  may  be  stuffed 
with  a  force-meat,  highly  seasoned,  and  roasted. 

CHICKENS  PRIED.   NO.  3. 

Take  a  young  chicken ;  beat  with  a  pounder ;  then  fry 
in  pork  drippings ;  fry  gently  and  turn  over ;  when  done, 
dip  each  piece  into  a  fritter-batter,  and  fry  brown. 
Fried  oysters  served  with  it  are  nice. 

BOILED    CHICKEN. 

Stuff  a  well-dressed  fowl  with  oysters,  bread-crumbs, 
parsley,  butter,  pepper,  and  salt ;  roll  in  a  floured  cloth ; 
put  in  a  pot  of  cold  water,  with  a  head  of  celery,  and 


56  EXCELSIOR  COOK  BOOK 

a  half  tea-cup  of  water ;  boil  slowly  one  hour  and  a  half. 
Eat  with  oyster  sauce  or  plain  drawn  butter.  Garnish 
with  hard-boiled  eggs  and  curled  parsley. 

PICKLED    GOOSE. 

Make  a  pickle  of  vinegar  and  water,  equal  parts,  salt, 
pepper,  sweet  herbs,  garlic,  and  onions ;  put  in  your 
goose,  and  let  it  remain  four  days,  turning  three  or  four 
times  every  day  ;  when  ready  to  cook,  drain  and  wipe 
dry  ;  lard  with  salt  pork ;  bake  or  stew  slowly ;  baste 
with  currant  wine  or  jelly,  and  water.  Seasoned  goose 
is  excellent  cooked  as  Boeuf  a  la  Mode. 

A   BONED    TUBKEY. 

Have  the  turkey  nicely  dressed ;  then  take  a  sharp 
knife,  and  commence  at  the  wings,  carefully  separating 
the  flesh  from  the  bones,  scraping  it  down  as  you  go ; 
do  not  break  the  skin.  Next  loosen  the  flesh  from 
the  breast,  back,  and  thighs  lastly.  When  all  the  flesh 
is  loosened,  take  the  turkey  by  the  neck,  and  pull  the 
skeleton  out;  take  a  needle  and  sew  up  the  skin,  if 
broken ;  then  commence  stuffing,  first  the  wings,  next 
the  body,  and  then  the  thighs.  It  must  be  stufied  hard, 
and  if  properly  done,  will  assume  its  natural  shape. 
Sew  up  the  breast,  and  skewer  it  into  its  proper  form. 
Bake  three  hours.  Any  large  fowl  may  be  boned  and 
stufled  in  the  same  way. 

TO   PBY   BABBITS. 

Have  well  cleaned  and  washed ;  scald  from  ten  to 
fifteen  minutes ;  cut  up  in  pieces ;  then  dip  in  beaten 
eggs,  and  roll  in  bread-crumbs,  pepper,  and  salt ;  fry 
in  butter  or  drippings  till  done ;  make  a  gravy  with 
flour,  and  pour  over. 

HAM   TOAST. 

Pound  cold  cooked  ham,  (or  chop  it,  just  as  you  like  :) 
mix  with  beaten  egg  and  cream ;  pour  over  toasted 
bread ;  serve  hot.  Any  other  kind  of  meat  may  be  pre- 
pared in  the  same  way. 


AND   nOUSEKEEPER'S   AID.  67 


GRAVIES  AND  SAUCES. 

DRAAATN  BUTTEK. 

Take  a  table-spoonful  of  flour,  with  just  water  enough 
to  mix  well,  then  pour  in  a  little  more,  (after  the  lumps 
are  out,)  and  stir  up  ;  then  stir  in  one  tea-cupful  of  boil- 
ing water ;  let  it  boil  up ;  then  remove  to  where  it  will 
keep  warm,  but  not  boil ;  put  in  a  quarter  of  a  pound 
of  butter,  and  let  it  stand  until  melted,  when  it  will  be 
ready  for  use.  It  must  be  free  from  lumps.  If  used 
for  fish,  put  in  boiled  eggs,  sliced  up,  or  capers.  If  re- 
quired for  curry  sauce,  sprinkle  in  curry-powder. 

BUKNT  BUTTER. 

Heat  three  ounces  of  butter,  until  it  is  a  nice  brown  ; 
add  half  a  tea-cupful  of  good  vinegar,  half  a  tea-spoon- 
ful of  salt,  and  a  third  of  a  tea-spoonful  of  pe23per.  This 
is  a  nice  sauce  for  fish  or  eggs. 

DRA-WJSr   MEAT    GRAVY,   OR   BRO^WN   GRAVIES. 

Put  into  a  saucepan,  a  pound  of  fresh  chopped  meat, 
two  table-spoonfuls  of  melted  butter,  salt,  and  pepper ; 
let  it  brown  nicely,  taking  care  that  it  does  not  stick ; 
pour  on  a  pint  of  boiling  water,  and  let  it  simmer  three 
hours ;  skim  well ;  then  strain  it,  and  cover  up  tight  till 
wanted.  When  used,  thicken  with  brown  flour,  a  tea- 
spoonful  to  half  a  pint. 

OYSTER    SAUCE. 

Take  a  quart  of  oyster  sauce,  a  stick  of  mace,  pepper, 
and  salt.  If  you  have  not  juice  sufiicient,  put  one  third 
water  ;  then  take  two  table-spoonfuls  of  flour,  wet 
smooth  with  a  tea-cupful  of  milk.  When  it  has  boil- 
ed up,  put  a  quart  of  oysters  in,  and  a  piece  of  butter 
the  size  of  a  hen's  egg ;  take  up  after  boiling  a  few  min- 
utes, as  boiling  makes  oysters  shrivel  up.     Serve  with 

poultry. 

CELERY  VINEGAR. 

Pound  in  a  mortar  two  gills  of  celery  seed,  and  add 
good  vinegar ;  shake  every  day  for  a  week  or  two.     It 
must  be  kept  corked  and  sealed. 
3* 


58  EXCELSIOR   COOK   BOOK 

CELERY    SAUCE    FOR    BOILED    FOWLS. 

Take  the  green  toj^s  off  of  four  heads  of  celery,  and  cut 
into  small  pieces,  and  boil  in  half  a  pint  of  water,  until 
tender.  Mix  two  table-spoonfuls  of  flour  with  half  a 
cup  of  milk ;  stir  in  with  salt,  and  butter.  When  it 
boils,  take  up. 

LIVER   SAUCE    FOR   FISH. 

Boil  the  liver  of  the  fish,  until  tender  enough  to  mash 
fine ;  stir  it  into  drawn  butter ;  add  a  spoonful  of  cat- 
sup, salt,  and  pepper.  A  little  lemon  or  vinegar  is  an 
improvement. 

CRA]SrBERRY   SAUCE. 

Stew  them  in  water,  until  tender ;  then  add  sugar, 
and  let  it  scald  well.  Strain  if  you  like,  but  I  prefer 
without. 

APPLE    SAUCE. 

Pare  and  core  tart  apples ;  stew  until  tender,  then 
sweeten,  and  add  a  little  butter ;  a  little  lemon  or  nut- 
meg is  an  imj^rovement.  Another  way  is  to  take  sweet 
a23ples,  pare  and  quarter  nicely ;  then  dry  one  day ; 
then  take  new  cider,  which  has  been  boiled  down  rich, 
one  quart  to  one  and  a  half  of  water,  and  stew  slowly 
from  two  to  three  hours,  in  brass  or  tin.  This  will 
keep  six  months  if  made  rich ;  a  few  quinces  add  very 
much  to  the  flavor. 

LOBSTER    SAUCE. 

Take  the  yolks  of  two  hard-boiled  eggs,  two  spoon- 
fuls of  melted  butter,  or  salad  oil,  a  mustard-spoonful 
of  mustard,  some  of  the  lobster  spawn,  six  spoonfuls  of 
vinegar,  salt,  and  pepper. 

BROWN"  SAUCE  FOR  POULTRY. 
Peel  two  or  three  onions,  slice  them,  fry  them  brown 
in  butter,  sprinkle  salt,  pepper,  flour,  and  sweet-mar- 
joram or  thyme;  add  half  a  pint  of  the  liquor  in  which 
the  poultry  was  boiled  or  roasted,  some  of  the  drip- 
pings, and  a  large  spoonful  of  catsup. 

RICE     SAUCE. 

Boil  half  a  tea-cupful  of  rice ;  put  in  a  blade  of  mace ; 
slice  up  an  onion,  and  when  tender,  and  the  water  all 


AND   housekeeper's   AID.  59 

absorbed,  stir  in  a  gill  of  milk,  a  tea-spoonful  of  salt, 
and  strain  it.     This  is  nice  for  game. 

HEKB    SPIRIT. 

Take  sweet  herbs,  such  as  sage,  summer  savory, 
thyme,  sweet  basil,  sweet  marjoram;  drjj  them;  then 
pound,  and  steep  in  brandy  two  or  three  weeks.  This 
is  convenient  to  use. 

SAUCE    FOR    TURTLE,  AKTD    CALVES'    HEAD. 

Take  half  a  pint  of  drawn  butter ;  put  in  sweet  mar- 
joram, pepper,  and  salt,  the  juice  and  rind  of  half  a 
lemon.  When  taken  from  the  fire,  add  a  wine-glass  of 
white  wine, 

"WINE  SAUCE  FOR  VENISOK"  OR  MUTTOK". 

Warm  half  a  pint  of  the  drippings ;  wet  a  little  flour 
to  thicken ;  and  season  with  salt,  pepper,  and  cloves, 
just  removing  from  the  fire  a  glass  of  wine,  or  currant- 

BRO^WNING    FOR   MADE    DISHES. 

Put  a  pound  of  good  brown  sugar  in  a  saucej^an, 
stir  it  constantly  over  a  slow  fire ;  boil  till  quite  thick 
and  brown,  but  do  not  burn  it ;  take  it  off"  the  fire,  and 
stir  in  slowly  a  quart  of  boiling  water ;  set  it  on  the 
fire,  and  boil  up,  then  turn  out,  and  when  cold,  bottle 
it.  This  will  keep  a  year,  and  a  very  little  serves  for 
soujDS,  gravies  or  sauces. 

TOMATO    SAUCE. 

Take  one  peck  of  green  tomatoes,  slice  them,  one 
dozen  small  onions,  sliced ;  sprinkle  over  them  a  little 
salt,  then  let  them  remain  twenty-four  hours;  drain 
them  and  add  one  quarter  of  a  pound  mustard-seed, 
whole,  one  box  ground  mustard,  one  ounce  of  pepper, 
one  of  allspice,  the  same  of  ginger ;  cover  them  with 
vinegar  and  boil  slowly  three  hours,  or  until  transparent. 

SALAD    DRESSING, 

Take  one  cup  of  good  vinegar,  a  tea-spoonful  of  oil, 
or  melted  butter,  one  of  made  mustard,  the  yolk  of  a 
hard-boiled  egg  rubbed  fine,  a  salt-spoonful  of  salt; 
pour  over  the  salad  and  send  to  the  table. 


60  EXCELSIOR  COOK  BOOK 

PEPPER    SAUCE. 

Take  a  dozen  ripe  pepper-pods,  cut  them  in  two,  lay 
them  in  a  kettle  with  three  pints  of  vinegar,  and  boil 
to  one  quart ;  strain  through  a  sieve.  This  gives  a 
flavor  greatly  superior  to  black  pepper  :  it  is  also  nice 
when  added  to  catsup  for  fish-sauce. 

DilA"WN    BUTTER.    No.  2. 

Take  a  few  spoonfuls  of  flour,  wet  with  cold  water 
until  all  the  lumps  are  out,  then  turn  in  a  little  more 
water ;  stir  up,  and  then  turn  on  boiling  water  enough 
to  make  a  thick  paste ;  put  in  one  third  as  much  butter 
as  you  have  of  gravy ;  let  it  remain  where  it  is  warm 
imtil  melted,  when  it  is  fit  for  use.  If  used  for  fish,  put 
in  boiled  eggs  sliced  up,  or  capers.  Curry-sauce  is  the 
same,  by  sprinkling  in  a  little  curry-powder. 

BURNT    BUTTER.    No.  2. 

Put  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  butter  in  frying-pan, 
and  brown  nicely  without  being  burnt,  then  add  a  cup- 
ful of  vinegar  ;  season  with  salt  and  pepper.  This  is 
nice  for  fish,  salads,  or  eggs. 

CURRANT    SAUCE    FOR    VENISON. 

Boil  an  ounce  of  dried  currants  in  half  a  pint  of 
water,  add  a  tea-cupful  of  bread-crumbs,  a  glass  of 
port  wine,  six  cloves,  and  a  piece  of  butter ;  stir  until 
smooth. 

SAUCE    FOR    COLD    MEAT,    FISH,    OR  SALAD. 

Boil  a  couple  of  eggs  three  minutes,  take  off  the 
shells,  and  then  mix  them  with  half  a  tea-cupful  of 
vinegar,  half  a  cup  of  butter  or  salad  oil,  a  tea-spoon- 
ful of  made  mustard,  a  little  salt  and  pepper ;  if  you 
like,  add  catsup. 

PUDDING-    SAUCE. 

Stir  half  a  tea-cujD  of  butter  to  one  of  sugar  to  a 
cream ;  the  more  it  is  stirred  the  nicer  it  is ;  flavor 
with  nutmeg,  lemon,  or  wine,  according  to  the  taste. 
Another  way  of  making  sauce  is  to  stir  butter  and  a 
spoonful  of  flour  togetlier  until  free  from  lumps ;  turn 
on  hot  water  sufficient  to  thicken  to  the  proper  con- 


AND   HOUSEKEEPEK's  AID.  6l 

sistency;  add  sugar,  and  any  kind  of  flavoring  you  like. 
Brandy  is  nice  for  this  kind. 

CURRY-POWDER. 

Mix  an  ounce  of  black  pej^per,  mustard,  ginger, 
each,  three  of  coriander  seed,  the  same  of  tumeric,  one 
quarter  of  an  ounce  Cayenne  pepper,  half  an  ounce  car- 
damus,  the  same  of  cummin-seed  and  cinnamon ;  pound 
the  whole  fine,  sift,  and  keep  in  a  bottle  corked  tight. 

TOMATO   SOY. 

Put  ripe  tomatoes  in  a  dish,  (having  previously 
pricked  them  with  a  fork,)  to  each  layer  sprinkle  a 
little  salt ;  let  them  remain  three  or  four  days,  then 
put  them  in  vinegar  for  one  night ;  the  next  day  drain 
off  the  vinegar  ;  put  the  tomatoes  in  a  jar  with  sliced 
onions  in  alternate  layers,  sprmkle  spices  between  each 
layer,  allowing  half  a  pint  of  English  mustard-seed, 
half  an  ounce  of  ground  cloves  and  pepper  to  each 
peck  of  tomatoes.  They  are  good  in  ten  or  twelve 
days. 

TO    MIX    MUSTARD. 

Take  a  cup  of  ground  mustard,  mix  with  cold  vine- 
gar, enough  to  make  a  paste,  add  a  tea-spoonful  of 
salt,  a  heaping  tea-spoonful  of  sugar ;  then  thin  with 
scalding  hot  vinegar,   otherwise  it  will  have  a  raw 

FRENCH    SAUCE    FOR    PUDDING. 

Take  half  a  pound  of  butter,  the  same  of  brown  sugar, 
and  stir  to  a  cream ;  beat  the  yolk  of  an  egg,  and  put 
in  with  a  gill  of  Avine ;  let  it  simmer  on  the  stove  a  few 
minutes,  stirring  all  the  time ;  when  taken  up,  grate  in 
a  little  nutmeg. 

Sweet  cream,  seasoned  with  nutmeg  or  lemon,  wine 
or  brandy  if  you  like,  is  a  nice  sauce  for  puddings. 
Sweet  cream  and  jelly  alone  is  nice. 

SAUCE    FOR    GOOSE,    DUCK,    OR  LAMB. 
Chop   green  mint   and   add  vinegar,  with  a  little 


62  EXCELSIOR  COOK  BOOK 

DKESSING    FOR    A    GOOSE    OB    DUCK. 

Bread-crumbs,  onion,  sage,  pepper,  salt,  cold  pota- 
toes, parsley  and  egg,  to  make  it  cut  nice.  The  same 
for  a  turkey  except  the  onions. 

CLARIFIED    BUTTER. 

Put  the  butter  in  a  kettle  over  the  fire,  when  melted 
skim  off  the  buttermilk  ;  let  it  stand  two  or  three  min- 
utes, and  then  strain  into  a  jar  for  use.  Butter  pre- 
pared in  this  way  is  as  sweet  as  marrow. 

OYSTER    DRESSING    FOR    BOILED    FOWLS. 

Take  one  pint  of  oysters,  bread-crumbs,  butter,  pep- 
per and  salt ;  mince  the  oysters,  and  add  an  egg. 

FOR    BAKED    FISH. 

Fat  pork  or  ham,  crumbs  of  bread,  parsley,  pepper, 
and  salt ;  bind  with  an  egg.  Onions  may  be  added,  if 
liked. 

DRESSIITG    FOR    A    ROAST    PIG. 

Mince  pork  liver,  sweet  herbs,  cold  potatoes,  butter, 
pej^per,  salt,  and  the  yolk  of  an  egg. 

HORSE-RADISH    TO    EAT    WITH    HOT    OR   COLD 

MEAT. 

A  table-spoonful  of  mustard,  one  of  vinegar,  three 
of  cream,  a  little  salt  and  as  much  horse-radish  as  it 
will  take.  Horse-radish  mixed  with  vinegar  alone  is 
excellent. 

LEMOlSr    SAUCE. 

Slice  lemons  thin,  then  cut  very  small  and  put  into 
melted  butter. 

SCORCHED  FLOUR. 

Brown  some  flour  in  a  spider,  then  bottle.  Excellent 
to  brown  gravies  of  roast  meats,  soups  or  stews. 

MUSHROOM    SAUCE. 

Pick  and  peel  half  a  pint  of  mushrooms,  the  smaller 
the  better ;  wash  clean,  put  them  in  a  saucepan  with 
half  a  pint  of  veal  gravy  or  milk,  pepper  and  salt,  an 
ounce  of  butter  rubbed  with  a  table-spoonful  of  flour ; 


AND   housekeeper's   AID.  63 

mix  together  and  set  them  over  a  gentle  fire  till  tender, 
then  skim  and  strain  it. 

ONION    SAUCE. 

Take  half  a  dozen  large  white  onions,  peel  and  (i\\\\ 
in  half;  put  them  in  a  pan  of  water  half  an  hour,  theii 
boil  a  quarter  of  an  hour ;  pour  off  the  water  and  boil 
till  tender;  strain  and  mash  in  a  bowl;  add  butter, 
salt  and  cream  ;  heat  before  serving. 

STOCK    FOR    GRAVY    OR    SOUP. 

Cut  a  knuckle  of  veal  into  slices ;  slice  a  pound  of 
lean  beef,  a  pound  of  lean  ham  ;  put  all  into  a  saucepan 
with  three  carrots,  two  onions,  two  turnips,  two  heads 
of  celery  and  two  quarts  of  water ;  cook  till  all  are 
tender,  but  not  brown. 

A  SAUCE  FOR  ROAST  BEEF. 

Take  a  table-spoonful  of  finely  grated  horse-radish, 
a  desert-spoonful  of  made  mustard,  the  same  of  brown 
sugar,  then  add  vinegar  until  thick  as  made  mustard. 

AN    EXCELLENT    SAUCE    FOR    VENISON. 

Take  half  a  pint  of  good  white  vinegar,  a  quarter  of 
a  pound  of  loaf-sugar,  put  in  a  tin  basin  and  warm 
slowly,  or  simmer  gently ;  skim  it  carefully,  and  send 
to  the  table  in  a  sauce-tureen. 

•WHITE    SAUCE    FOR    FOWLS. 

Thicken  half  a  pint  of  cream  with  flour  and  butter, 
four  shallots  minced,  a  little  mace  and  lemon-peel ;  let 
it  boil,  and  a  little  before  serving  add  a  spoonful  of 
white  wme,  the  yolk  of  an  egg  beaten,  and  a  tea-spoon- 
ful of  anchovy  liquor,  with  a  squeeze  of  a  lemon. 

ANOTHER. 

Melt  in  a  tea-cupful  of  milk  a  large  spoonful  of 
butter  kneaded  in  flour ;  beat  up  the  yolk  of  an  egg 
with  a  tea-spoonful  of  cream ;  heat  it  over  the  hre, 
stirring  it  constantly,  add  a  little  chopped  parsley. 

SOUPS. 
If  uncooked  meat  is  used,  allow  a  pound  to  one 
quart  of  water.    Put  the  meat  into  cold  water  and 


64  EXCELSIOR  COOK  BOOK 

heat  gradually.  If  cooked  too  fast  the  albumen  coagu- 
lates and  hardens  the  meat ;  prevents  the  water  from 
penetrating,  consequently  the  flavor  is  lost  and  the 
meat  tough.  Be  careful  to  skim  as  soon  as  any  thing 
rises  on  the  top,  and  then  throw  in  a  little  salt  to 
bring  up  the  scum.  Keep  it  well  covered  up  to  pre- 
vent the  flavor  from  escaping.  If  more  water  is 
needed,  add  boiling  water,  as  cold  spoils  the  soup. 
When  tender,  take  it  out  and  skim  well,  and  then 
season  with  pepper  and  salt,  adding  any  vegetables 
you  like,  or  sweet  herbs ;  thicken  with  rice,  barley,  ver- 
micelli, or  little  flour-balls.  As  potato-water  is  not 
considered  healthy,  it  is  not  best  to  put  in  much,  or 
else  boil  by  themselves  and  add  afterward.  Cold  roast 
beef  or  beefsteak  may  be  made  into  soup. 

BEEF   SOUP. 

Boil  the  shank  of  beef  in  sufficient  water  to  cover  it 
until  tender  ;  take  up  and  take  off"  the  fat.  Put  in  a 
cup  of  rice  or  macaroni  broken  into  small  bits,  or  lit- 
tle flour-balls.  Season  with  pepper,  salt,  and  catsup  ; 
if  you  have  not  catsup,  add  a  few  powdered  cloves. 
Slice  up  two  onions,  one  potato,  and  one  carrot.  Boil 
until  tender. 

PORTABLE    SOUP. 

Take  the  liquor  in  which  beef  or  veal  has  been 
boiled,  and  skin  off  the  fat ;  then  boil  do^vn  the  liquor 
to  thick  consistency.  Season  highly  with  pepper,  salt, 
cloves,  and  allspice ;  add  wine  or  brandy,  and  turn  on 
platters,  not  over  three  quarters  of  an  inch  in  thick- 
ness. When  cold  cut  in  squares  and  set  in  the  sun  to 
dry,  turning  often.  When  perfectly  dry,  put  in  an 
earthen  vessel,  with  a  piece  of  white  paper  between 
each  layer.  Whenever  you  wish  to  make  a  soup,  take 
one  of  them  to  a  quart  of  water,  heating  it  scalding 
hot ;  add  vegetables  if  you  like.  These  will  keep  a 
long  time. 

VEGETABLE    SOUP. 

Take  the  liquor  in  which  any  kind  of  fresh  meat 
has  been  boiled ;  but  mutton  or  lamb  is  the  best ;  skim 
off  the  fat,  and  to  four  quarts  of  liquor  put  in  two  car- 


AND   housekeeper's   AID.  65 

rots  sliced,  and  let  them  boil  twenty  minutes ;  then 
add  two  onions,  two  potatoes,  two  turnips,  two  toma- 
toes, sliced  thin ;  season  with  salt  and  pepper  to  the 
taste.     When  tender  take  up. 

PEA    SOUP. 

Take  dry  peas  and  soak  over  night  in  cold  water, 
the  next  morning  boil  in  the  same  water  an  hour  ;  just 
before  taking  up,  add  a  tea-spoonful  of  saleratus ;  then 
turn  into  a  colander  to  drain,  and  then  put  back  again 
with  a  piece  of  pork,  pouring  on  fresh  water ;  boil  un- 
til soft.  Green  peas  need  not  boil  more  than  an  hour. 
Dry  beans  may  be  cooked  the  same  way. 

TOMATO   SOUP.! 

Boil  beef  or  veal  until  tender,  then  skin  well  and 
cut  up  half  a  dozen  ripe  tomatoes  or  green,  just  as 
you  prefer  ;  pare  them  first.  Season  with  sugar,  pep- 
per, and  salt ;  cloves,  if  you  like. 

CHICKE]Sr   OR   TURKEY   SOUP 

After  boiling  tender,  skin  off  the  fat  and  put  in  a 
cupful  of  rice  and  a  head  of  celery,  pepper,  and  salt. 
Pour  on  crackers  or  toasted  bread. 

VERMICELLI   SOUP. 

Make  a  rich  soup  of  any  kind  of  meat ;  old  fowls  are 
nice.  Add  a  few  slices  of  ham,  two  onions,  one  head 
of  celery,  pepper,  and  salt,  sweet  herbs,  if  you  like. 
Strain  it  and  add  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  vermicelli 
which  has  been  scalded  in  boiling  water.  Put  in  Cay- 
enne pepper,  and  let  it  boil  five  minutes.  The  meat 
must  be  boiled  until  it  falls  from  the  bones.  Turn  on 
toasted  bread. 

FORCE-MEAT   BALLS. 

Take  two  thirds  lean  veal,  one  third  raw,  salt  pork, 
chop  fine ;  season  with  curry-powder,  pepper,  salt,  or 
leave  out  the  curry  and  add  cloves.  Make  up  into 
balls  the  size  of  an  hen's  egg ;  boil  half  in  the  soup 
fifteen  minutes,  and  fry  the  remainder  and  serve  in  a 
separate  dish.  For  beef  soup,  add  beef  and  eggs,  it 
will  make  them  hold  together  better. 


66  EXCELSIOE   COOK  BOOK 

OYSTER   SOUP. 

Pat  two  quarts  of  water  in  a  stewpan,  and  when 
boiling,  add  three  pints  of  oysters.  Season  with  salt, 
pepper,  and  stir  smooth  two  large  spoonfuls  of  flour  ; 
add  with  it  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  butter.  Let  them 
boil  five  minutes  and  no  longer  ;  as  much  boiling  makes 
them  hard  and  tough.  You  may  add  a  pint  of  milk  if 
preferred,  or  half  milk  and  half  water.  Salt  should 
not  be  put  in  until  ready  to  take  up,  as  they  shrink 
from  the  efiects  of  it. 

MOCK-TURTLE   SOUP. 

Take  a  calf's  head  and  divide  the  upper  from  the 
lower  part,  also  a  knuckle  of  veal  to  make  force-meat 
balls  to  be  added ;  put  in  a  gallon  of  water  and  boil 
until  tender.  Skim  carefully,  and  season  with  pepper, 
salt,  mace,  sweet  herbs,  curry-powder  or  cloves.  Three 
sliced  potatoes  may  be  added,  and  the  juice  of  two 
lemons,  also  the  yolks  of  six  eggs  boiled  hard.  Just 
before  taking  up  add  half  a  jDint  of  white  wine ;  add 
half  your  force-meat  balls,  and  fry  the  remainder. 
The  brains  can  be  j)ut  in  the  balls  after  cooking  them 
tender. 

ANOTHER   METHOD. 

Boil  a  knuckle  of  veal  in  a  gallon  of  water,  down  to 
two  quarts ;  strain  the  juice  of  the  oysters  to  get  out 
the  pieces  of  shell.  Put  in  the  oysters,  season  with 
pepper,  salt,  adding  two  spoonfuls  of  flour,  or  eight 
rolled  crackers,  and  half  pint  of  rich  milk.  Butter  the 
size  of  an  egg.  Be  careful  not  to  cook  the  oysters 
until  they  shrink. 

CLAM    SOUP. 

"Wash  a  peck  of  clams  and  put  them  in  a  stewpan 
with  a  pint  of  water,  and  when  they  open  strain  the 
juice,  and  add  a  pint  of  milk,  the  same  of  water ;  when 
they  boil,  stir  in  two  spoonfuls  of  flour  and  a  lump  of 
butter  the  size  of  an  egg ;  add  pepper  and  mace  if  you 
like. 

MACARONI   SOUP. 

Make  a  nice  veal  soup  and  season  with  salt,  pepper, 
parsley,  and  onions.     Break  in  pieces  a  quarter  of  a 


AND   housekeeper's   AID.  67 

pound  of  macaroni,  and  simmer  in  milk  until  tender. 
Strain  and  add  to  the  soup.  Stir  in  two  large  spoon- 
fuls of  flour  and  a  pint  of  cream. 

MACAROWI    SOUP.     NO.    2. 

Boil  six  pounds  of  beef  with  two  Onions,  one  carrot, 
half  a  turnip,  and  a  head  of  celery.  Boil  until  tender. 
Turn  into  a  pan  and  let  it  cool.  Skim  off  the  fat  and 
pour  off  into  the  kettle  half  an  hour  before  used,  leav- 
ing out  the  sediment.  Add  half  a  pint  of  macaroni, 
broken  into  small  pieces.  Season  to  the  taste,  and 
add  a  table-spoonful  of  tomato  catsup. 

GIBLET    SOUP. 

Take  the  giblets  of  two  fowls,  the  feet,  neck,  and 
pinions,  add  a  pound  of  veal  and  a  piece  of  ham.  Cut 
the  giblets  and  meat  into  half-inch  pieces.  Pour  on 
cold  water  and  boil  until  tender.  Strain  the  liquor, 
and  when  cold  take  off  the  fat.  Add  a  table-spoonful 
of  flour  and  one  of  butter,  with  sweet  herbs  tied  in  a 
bag  ;  season  with  salt  and  pepper.  Boil  a  few  minutes 
and  then  serve. 

PEPPER    POT. 

Take  an  ox-heel  or  any  other  part  of  the  beef,  and 
boil  till  tender,  not  forgetting  to  skim  well ;  when  nearly 
done,  add  carrot,  turnip,  two  onions,  and  two  pota- 
toes sliced.  Put  in  Cayenne  pejDper,  black  pepper,  and 
salt.  Make  a  crust  as  for  pastry,  and  roll  thin,  then 
cut  in  strip's  half  a  finger  long,  and  half  an  inch  in 
width.     Put  in  half  an  hour  before  taking  up. 

LOBSTER    SOUP. 

Take  three  young  hen  lobsters,  spit  the  tails,  take 
out  the  fish  and  crack  the  claws,  cut  the  meat  into 
mouthfuls  ;  take  out  the  coral  and  the  soft  part  of  the 
body,  bruise  part  of  the  coral  in  a  mortar,  pick  out 
the  fish  from  the  chines,  beat  part  of  it  with  the  coral, 
and  with  this  make  force-meat  balls.  Have  three 
quarts  of  veal  broth,  bruise  the  legs  and  the  chine  ; 
put  them  into  it  to  boil  twenty  minutes,  then  strain  it, 
and  to  thicken  it,  take  the  live  spawn  and  bruise  it  in 
a  mortar  with  a  little  butter  and  flour  ;  rub  it  through 


68  EXCELSIOR  COOK  BOOK 

a  sieve,  and  add  to  it  the  soup  with  the  meat  of  the 

lobster  and  the  remaining  coral,  let  it  simmer  very 

gently  ten  minutes.     Do  not  let  it  boil  or  the  color 

will  fade  ;  turn  into  a  tureen  and  add  the  juice  of  a 

lemon. 

"WHITE    SOUP. 

Take  a  turkey  or  chicken,  have  it  nicely  dressed 
and  cut  up  ;  boil  slowly  until  tender,  then  add  celery, 
carrots,  onions,  salt,  rice,  and  pepper.  When  done, 
add  a  tea-cupful  of  sweet  cream.  This  is  a  nice 
method  of  cooking  old  fowls. 

OCHRA    SOUP. 

Fry  a  chicken,  cut  up,  to  a  light  brown,  also  a  slice 
of  ham.  Pour  on  hot  water,  and  add  two  onions  with 
sweet  herbs  tied  up  in  a  rag.  Simmer  until  tender, 
then  add  two  dozen  ochras  cut  in  slices,  and  half  a 
tea-cup  of  rice.  Boil  half  an  hour,  and  then  put  in  a 
dozen  oysters  and  a  wine-glass  of  wine.     This  is  nice. 

GUMBO    SOUP. 

Make  as  ochra  soup  ;  and  when  the  meat  is  boiled  in 
shreds,  strain,  and  thicken  with  pulverized  sassafras 
leaves,  about  two  tea-spoonfuls ;  after  the  oysters  are 
put  in,  take  off  the  fire,  and  add  the  powder,  and  stir 
in  till  it  ropes,  without  being  too  thick ;  eat  with  rice. 
The  sassafras  leaves  should  be  gathered  when  tender, 
and  dried  in  the  shade ;  then  pulverize  and  bottle. 

,  EEL,  OR  FISH  SOUP. 

Take  four  pounds  of  small  eels,  (having  previously 
cleaned  them ;)  boil  in  four  quarts  of  water ;  add  two 
carrots,  one  onion,  parsley,  celery,  allspice,  cloves,  Cay- 
enne pepper,  and  salt ;  when  the  vegetables  are  done, 
thicken  with  a  little  flour ;  add  a  cup  of  sweet  cream, 
or,  if  preferred,  add  one  glass  of  Avine,  or  catsup.  Any 
kind  of  hard  fish  may  be  made  in  this  manner,  but  will 
require  a  little  butter.     Good  fast-day  soup. 

BRO^WN    SOUP. 

This  is  generally  made  of  beef  Boil  till  tender,  then 
some  onions,  either  roasted,  brown,  or  fried,  carrots. 


AND  housekeeper's  AID.  69 

parsley,  celery,  sweet  herbs,  cloves,  allspice,  pepper, 
salt,  and  some  rice  ;  when  the  meat  is  boiled  to  shreds, 
strain  on  toasted  bread;  add  to  this,  if  desired,  port 
wine,  or  currant-jelly. 

BEAM"  SOUP. 
Clean  and  wash  the  beans  over  night,  then  ponrboil- 
inff  water  on  them,  and  let  them  remain  till  morning ; 
then  take  out  of  the  water,  and  put  over  the  fire,  with 
plenty  of  water ;  wash  clean  a  small  piece  ol  corned 
beef,  about  half  as  much  pork,  and  throw  m;  cover 
ti^ht,not  forgetting  to  skim  carefully;  then  put  m  one 
carrot,  sliced,  parsley,  celery,  and  pepper  ;  boil  slowly, 
till  done;  strain  on  toasted  bread.  Pea  soup  or  dry 
corn  may  be  made  in  the  same  way. 

EGGS. 

TO  CHOOSE  EGGS. 
A  very  ffood  method  of  choosing  eggs  is  to  drop 
them  in  cold  water,  and  if  they  sink  readily,  they  are 
^ood;  if  not,  throw  them  away.  Another  way  is  to 
hold  them  to  the  light ;  if  clear,  they  are  fresh,  if  not, 
they  are  not  good. 

FOR  PBESERVING  EGGS. 

They  may  be  greased,  so  as  to  stop  up  the  pores, 

and  packed  in  a  box  of  bran,  or  oats,  small  end  down. 

The  easiest  and  best  way  that  I  have  kept  them,  is  to 

take  them,  when  fresh,  and  put  them  m  a  tub,  with  a 

layer  of  salt  at  the  bottom,  small  end  downward ;  then 

a  layer  of  salt,  and  a  layer  of  eggs,  until  your  jar,  or 

tub,  is  filled.     A  cracked  one  will  spoil  the  whoLe,  or  a 

bad  one.     They  must  be  kept  in  a  cool  place,     ihis  is 

the  most  acceptable  way  of  keeping  theni  that  I  have 

ever  tried.     Another  method  is  good  to  keep  them,  it 

rightly  done.     Pour  a  gallon  of  boiling  water  on  two 

quarts  of  quicklime,  and  half  a  pound  of  salt;  when 

cold,  stir  into  it  an  omice  of  cream  oi  tartar,  part  ot 

the  lime  will  remain  at  the  bottom.    Put  m  the  eggs, 

small  end  downward,  and  they  will  keep  for  a  long  time. 


*20  EXCELSIOR   COOK  BOOK 

BOILING    EGGS. 

Put  into  boiling  water,  and  boil  three  minutes,  or 
j^ut  into  cold  water,  and  let  them  remain  five  minutes ; 
then  turn  off  the  water,  and  pour  on  more,  and  let 
them  remain  five  minutes  longer,  without  boiling.  For 
salad,  or  to  garnish  a  dish,  boil  eight  minutes.  A  nice 
way  to  cook  them  is  to  drop  them  into  boiling  water, 
and  let  them  remain  a  moment,  to  prevent  their  stick- 
ing, then  set  on  the  stove  until  the  white  is  set ;  then 
take  up  with  a  spoon,  and  lay  on  buttered  toast. 

SOKAMBLED   EGGS. 

Warm  a  little  butter  in  a  pan ;  then  beat  up  eggs 
light,  and  pour  it  in ;  stir  until  thick,  and  turn  on  a  hot 
dish,  without  allowing  any  to  stick. 

TO    EKY   EGGS. 

Eggs  are  usually  fried  after  frying  ham.  If  there  is 
not  gravy  enough,  add  a  little  lard.  Break  one  in  a 
saucer,  at  a  time,  and  drop  in ;  then  take  a  spoon  and 
turn  the  hot  fat  over,  until  the  white  is  nicely  set,  with- 
out turning  over,  as  they  look  much  nicer.  Lay  on  the 
ham,  if  you  like,  but  a  nicer  way  is  to  put  them  on  a 
plate  by  themselves. 

OMELETTE. 

Take  half  a  dozen  eggs,  and  beat  to  a  froth,  strain 
through  a  sieve,  if  you  like ;  then  resume  the  beating 
until  light ;  put  in  the  frying-pan  a  piece  of  butter, 
pour  in  the  eggs,  and,  as  soon  as  firm,  put  a  plate  over, 
and  turn  the  pan  bottom  side  up ;  fold  the  omelette  to- 
gether, and  serve  hot.  From  five  to  ten  minutes  will 
cook  it. 

BREAD    OMELETTE. 

Put  a  handful  of  bread-crumbs  in  a  sauce-pan,  a  little 
cream,  salt,  and  pepper,  nutmeg  if  you  like ;  when  the 
bread  has  absorbed  all  the  bread,  pour  in  eight  eggs 
well  beaten,  and  fry  like  an  omelette.  Another  me- 
thod is  to  use  chopped  ham  or  beef,  instead  of  bread- 
crumbs, and  fry  as  above. 


AND   housekeeper's   AID.  71 

OMELETTE. 

Mix  a  large  spoonful  of  flour  smooth,  and  add  a  cup 
of  milk,  add  a  large  spoonful  of  butter,  a  tea-spoonful 
of  salt,  and  six  eggs,  the  white  and  yolks  beaten  sepa- 
rately ;  heat  a  little  butter  in  a  pan,  and  turn  in  until 
cooked,  then  take  it  up  as  directed.  It  should  be  fried 
in  a  small  spider,  so  that  the  omelette  should  be  an 
inch  thick. 

A   SWEET   OMELETTE.  • 

Beat  up  four  eggs,  add  a  little  salt  and  sugar,  and 
fry  in  butter ;  make  a  half  a  pound  of  preserve  liquid, 
by  shaking  it  over  the  fire ;  spread  half  of  it  on  the 
omelette ;  double  up  like  a  turnover,  and  pour  the  rest 
on  the  top. 

CUPPED   EGGS. 

Put  a  spoonful  of  highly  seasoned  gravy,  or  butter, 
in  tea-cups,  set  the  cups  in  boiling  water,  and  when 
the  gravy  heats,  drop  a  fresh  egg  into  each  one,  and 
take  off  the  stove,  and  cover  the  pan  tight,  until  nicely 
cooked ;  dredge  with  nutmeg,  and  salt.  Serve  in  a  hot- 
water  plate,  covered  with  a  napkin. 

TO   POACH   EGGS   IJST   A   CUP. 

Put  a  little  butter,  or  drippings,  in  a  spider ;  break 
the  eggs  gently  into  cups  of  diflerent  sizes ;  with  a 
slight  turn  of  the  hand,  turn  the  cup  with  the  egg  into 
the  pan,  until  all  are  turned  over ;  have  a  very  slow 
fire ;  raise  the  cups  a  little  to  ascertain  when  done. 
Serve  with  toasted  bread,  or  spinage. 

POACHED   EGGS. 

Break  fresh  eggs  into  boiling  water,  and  let  them 
stand  on  the  stove  till  the  white  is  set,  then  take  up 
carefully ;  trim  the  edges  nicely,  and  send  to  the  table 
hot. 

EGGS   DONE   "WITH   CHEESE. 

Put  some  butter  in  a  spider,  cover  it  with  bread- 
crumbs ;  on  that,  lay  slices  of  cheese ;  then  beat  eggs 
light ;  season  with  pepper  and  salt ;  cover  tight  till 
the  eggs  are  done,  then  take  up. 


^2  EXCELSIOR   COOK   BOOK 

EGG   OMELETTE. 

Take  one  spoonful  of  flour,  wet  it  with  one  of  milk, 
a  small  piece  of  butter,  to  one  egg ;  fry  till  done. 

BAKED   EGGS. 

Melt  some  butter  in  a  patty-pan ;  break  in  your  eggs ; 
add  a  little  salt  and  pepper ;  bake  till  the  whites  are 
done,  then  serve  with  toast. 

CEUPS   BROUILLES. 

Put  a  little  butter  in  a  saucepan ;  sprinkle  over  it 
some  salt ;  add  a  little  gravy,  which  makes  the  eggs 
softer ;  stir  them  over  the  fire  until  thick.  Serve  with 
toasted  bread.  Ham,  mushroom,  etc.,  are  nice  minced 
and  added.  The  difference  between  this  and  an  ome- 
lette is,  that  an  omelette  is  more  compact,  and  turns 

out  smooth. 

SOUFFLE    FBANCAIS. 

Put  into  a  stewpan  an  ounce  of  butter  ;  stir  in  two 
spoonfuls  of  flour,  and  cook  well,  but  not  colored; 
add  by  degrees  a  wine-glass  of  boiling  cream  and  four 
of  milk ;  stir  smooth,  and  take  off  the  fire ;  add  the 
yolks  of  four  eggs,  a  little  sugar,  and  a  table-spoonful 
of  orange- water ;  whip  up  lightly  the  white  of  eight 
eggs,  and  mix  with  the  batter;  put  the  whole  in  a 
souffle-dish,  and  bake  an  hour. 

FISH. 

Fish  should  be  well  cleaned,  and  cooked  while 
fresh.  If  the  least  tainted,  they  should  be  thrown 
away.  Fresh  fish  are  better  soaked  in  salt  and  water 
a  few  hours  before  cooking.  In  boiling,  they  should 
be  rolled  in  a  cloth,  and  put  in  cold  water,  with  salt 
thrown  in  the  water.  A  very  little  boiling  will  an- 
swer ;  if  over-boiled,  they  will  be  watery  and  unpala- 
table. Salt  fish  should  be  soaked  over  night,  or  long- 
er, if  not  fresh  enough.  Buttermilk  is  the  best  to 
soak  them  in,  but  they  require  longer  soaking ;  then 
wash  clean  before  cooking.  Fish  should  always  be 
eaten  as  soon  as  cooked.  For  a  garnish,  use  parsley, 
hard-boiled  eggs,  or  lemons  cut  in  slices.     Always  fry 


AND    housekeeper's   AID.  73 

pork  first,  and  then  fry  the  fish  in  the  gravy,  if  you 
can.  Most  all  cook-books  recommend  lard  instead  of 
butter,  but  I  prefer  butter,  if  you  are  careful  not  to 
burn  it,  as  it  will  make  the  fish  look  bad.  After  fry- 
ing fish  a  gravy  may  be  made  by  stirring  in  a  little 
flour  and  water,  with  butter,  if  you  like,  wine  or  cat- 
sup ;  turn  on  the  fish.  For  boiled  fish,  always  make 
a  sauce,  as  directed  for  fish.  For  baked  fish,  use  a 
dressing  of  bread,  soaked  soft ;  then  mix  butter,  salt, 
pepper  and  spices,  if  you  can.  An  egg  or  two  will 
make  the  dressing  cut  smooth.  Wash  the  fish  per- 
fectly clean ;  fill  with  the  dressing,  and  sew  up  ;  put 
in  a  dripping-pan,  with  a  little  water,  a  slice  or  two  of 
pork.     Bake  from  half  an  hour  to  an  hour. 

HALIBUT 

is  nice  cut  in  slices  and  dipped  in  Indian  meal ;  pep- 
pered and  salted ;  then  fried,  or  it  may  be  broiled. 
The  dried  is  nice  for  tea,  or  soaked  in  cold  water  a 
ittle  while,  and  broiled. 

CODFISH. 

Fresh  cod  is  good  cooked  almost  in  any  way,  ex- 
cept broiled.  Salt  codfish  may  be  cut  in  small  pieces, 
and  soaked  in  cold  water,  putting  it  where  it  will 
warm,  about  half  an  hour ;  take  out  and  put  in  milk 
and  a  piece  of  butter — or  cream  is  the  best ;  stir  in  a 
little  flour,  made  smooth,  but  do  not  let  it  boil— only 
simmer — boiling  will  harden  it.  It  will  cook  in  fif- 
teen minutes.  A  few  eggs  will  improve  it.  Pour  on 
buttered  toast.  It  may  be  laid  on  a  few  coals  till 
brown;  then  soak  in  cold  water  a  few  minutes  to 
soften. 

BUTTEKED    CODFISH. 

Shred  it  fine,  and  soak  in  cold  water  until  fresh 
enough;. then  drain  and  put  in  a  piece  of  butter  the 
size  of  an  egg,  with  a  spoonful  of  flour ;  stir  a  few 
minutes ;  then  lay  on  the  platter,  and  sprinkle  pepper 
over  it.  Eat  hot. 
4 


14  EXCELSIOR  COOK  BOOK 

BAKED    SHAD. 

Make  a  stuffing  of  the  head  and  cold  boiled  ham; 
season  with  salt,  pepper,  cloves  and  sweet  herbs ; 
moisten  with  an  egg ;  stuff  the  fish  and  rub  some  on 
the  outside ;  put  it  in  a  deep  pan,  with  its  tail  toward 
its  mouth ;  pour  on  water  and  a  piece  of  butter ;  bake 
two  hours ;  make  a  gravy  and  pour  around  it,  and 
garnish  with  lemons  sliced. 

TO   BOIL   CODFISH. 

Soak  two  or  three  hours  in  cold  wsiter ;  or  a  better 
way  is  to  soak  it  over  night,  if  wanted  for  dinner ; 
then  put  in  a  pot,  Avith  cold  water  on  it,  and  let  it 
cook  slowly,  but  not  boil,  for  two  hours.  Serve  with 
potatoes,  and  make  a  gravy  of  drawn  butter,  or  egg 
sauce.  If  you  prefer,  it  may  be  chopped  up  together, 
the  fish  and  potatoes.  Vinegar  added  to  the  sauce  is 
nice.  Another  method  is  to  mash  the  potatoes  and 
fish  together,  adding  cream,  or  milk  and  butter,  with 
pepper,  and  make  in  round  flat  cake,  an  inch  thick, 
and  fry  in  butter,  having  previously  dipped  them  in 
flour,  or  egg  and  flour.     These  are  nice  fried  for  tea. 

BKOILED    CODFISH. 

Sprinkle  salt  and  pepper  on  the  outside  and  inside ; 
let  it  remain  six  or  seven  hours,  before  broiling  or 
frying ;  split,  and  dry  in  a  cloth ;  grease  the  gridiron, 
and  put  the  fish  on  outside  uppermost,  and  broil  a 
quarter  of  an  hour ;  be  careful  not  to  burn  it ;  butter 
well,  and  send  to  the  table  hot.  Fried  shad  must  be 
rolled  in  Indian  meal  or  flour,  or  rubbed  over  with 
egg  and  bread-crumbs,  before  frying. 

TO   BOIL   FKESH  SALMON". 

Salmon  requires  more  cooking  than  most  any  other 
kind  of  fish ;  scald  and  clean  nice ;  put  in  a  kettle  of 
cold  water,  with  a  handful  of  salt ;  let  it  boil  slowly, 
allowing  a  quarter  of  an  hour  to  a  pound  of  fish.  As 
soon  as  done,  take  carefully  up  in  a  napkin,  and  wrap 
it  close,  to  absorb  the  moisture ;  lay  on  a  hot  dish, 
and  garnish  with  horse-radish  and  curled  parsley,  or 
boiled  eggs,  cut  in  rings,  laid  round  the  dish.     Oyster 


AND   HOTTSEKEEPEr's   AID.  15 

sauce  is  best  Avith  fresh  boiled  iisli.  For  broiling,  cut 
in  thin  slices. 

SMOKED   SALMON". 

Scale  and  cut  the  fish  up  the  back ;  take  out  the  roe 
and  the  bone ;  rub  inside  and  out  with  equal  parts  of 
sugar  and  salt ;  add  a  little  saltpetre ;  press  flat  with 
a  board  and  weights  on  it  two  days ;  drain  from  the 
salt,  and  wipe  dry ;  stretch  it  open,  and  fasten  with  a 
stick ;  hang  up  and  smoke  four  or  five  days ;  when 
used,  soak  in  warm  water,  and  broil. 

SOUNDS    AWD    TONGUES. 

Soak  in  lukewarm  water  three  or  four  hours ;  then 
scrape  off  the  skin,  cut  in  two,  and  stew  in  milk ;  stir 
in  a  little  butter  and  flour  just  before  taking  up. 
Another  way  is,  to  dip  in  egg,  and  then  in  flour,  and 
fry  in  buttter.     Use  drawn-butter  gravy. 

TO    BOIL   ERESH    CODFISH. 

Put  into  water  boiling  hot,  and  boil  twenty  minutes, 
or  according  to  the  size  of  the  fish.  Use  oyster  sauce 
for  gravy. 

TO    COOK  EELS. 

Skin,  and  wash  clean ;  cut  in  small  pieces  two  inches 
long ;  put  in  cold  water,  or  milk  and  water,  with  a 
handful  of  salt,  and  boil  until  a  fork  will  go  in  easy ; 
then  take  up,  and  dip  in  flour,  and  fry  in  butter  or 
lard  a  nice  brown.  Catfish  are  cooked  in  the  same 
way,  and  are  not  good  unless  parboiled  first. 

STEWTED   EELS 

must  be  parboiled  and  cooked  with  a  very  little  gravy, 
and  butter,  if  you  have  not  the  gravy.  Put  in  a  couple 
of  spoonfuls  of  water,  pepper,  and  salt.  Just  before 
taking  up,  stir  in  a  little  flour  made  smooth. 

BLACK  FISH. 

They  must  be  boiled  or  fried,  as  directed  for  other 
fish. 

MACKESEL. 

If  salt,  soak  over  night  in  cold  water ;  then  boil  the 
next  day.     They  will  not  require  much  cooking.     If 


V6  EXCELSIOK   COOK  BOOK 

for  frying  or  broiling,  they  must  be  soaked  twenty- 
four  hours  at  least,  and  in  warm  weather  should  be 
he])t  in  buttermilk,  and  w^hen  required  for  broiling, 
should  be  rinsed  and  drained  an  hour  or  two  before 
broiled.  Salt  shad  may  be  soaked  in  the  same  way, 
only  require  longer  soaking,  as  they  are  much  thicker. 

TO    COOK   FRESH   FISH. 

Have  the  fat  hot,  and,  mth  a  pastry-brush,  rub  egg 
over  the  fish,  and  sprinkle  bread-crumbs  on,  or  else 
dip  them  in  flour  or  Indian  meal.  Allow  them  to 
cook  well  on  one  side  before  turning. 

STURGEON    STEAKS. 

Take  off  the  skin,  and  cut  slices  half  an  inch  thick ; 
rub  with  salt  and  the  beaten  yolk  of  an  egg ;  sprinkle 
on  bread-crumbs ;  wrap  up  in  butter  papers  and  broil ; 
take  the  papers  off  before  sending  to  the  table ;  or 
broil  without  the  egg,  just  salt  rubbed  on,  and  season 
with  butter  and  Cayenne  pepper. 

STURGEONS    BAKED    OR   FRIED. 

They  are  good  baked  or  broiled,  but  better  fried. 
It  should  be  boiled  fifteen  minutes  previous  to  baking, 
to  extract  the  oily  taste  which  they  are  liable  to  have. 
The  part  next  the  tail  is  best.  Bake  as  other  fish.  To 
fry,  cut  in  slices  nearly  an  inch  thick,  and  fry  where 
pork  has  been  fried ;  when  brown,  take  up,  and  stir  in 
a  little  flour,  with  pepper,  salt,  catsup,  butter,  and 
wine,  if  liked ;  put  back  in  the  pot,  and  stew  a  few 
minutes.  While  cooking,  make  force-meat  balls  out 
of  some  fish  reserved ;  fry,  and  use  them  as  a  garnish 
for  the  fish. 

FISH   FORCE-MEAT    BALLS. 

Chop  some  of  the  uncooked  fish  with  salt  pork; 
mix  two  raw  eggs,  some  bread-crumbs,  and  season 
w^ith  pepper  and  spice,  if  you  like  ;  do  up  in  balls, 
and  fry  brown. 

TROUT. 

These  are  very  fine  fried,  dipj^ed  in  flour  or  egg  and 
bread-crumbs.  They  should  be  cooked  with  the  head 
on,  merely  cut  open  and  washed  clean.    They  are  good 


AND   IIOUSEREEPER'S   AID.  77 

Stewed  with  ca  very  little  water  and  salt  pork;  or  they 
may  be  broiled,  or  put  in  a  cloth  and  boiled,  using  a 
fish  sauce.  ^.^^„ 

FISH  CAKES. 
Take  salt  pork  and  chop  with  fresh  fish  that  has 
been  previously  cooked ;  mix  with  eggs  and  bread- 
crumbs;  season  with  pepper  and  salt;  then  make  iip 
into  small  cakes,  and  fry  brown.  Flour  the  hands 
Avhile  making  them.     The  fat  must  be  hot. 

SCOLLOPS. 

Boil  them,  and  take  out  of  the  shells ;  take  out  the 
heart,  and  throw  the  rest  away,  as  that  is  the  only 
part  fit  to  eat;  dip  in  flour,  and  fry  brown.  Ihey 
may  also  be  stcAved  with  a  little  water,  seasoned  with 
pepper  and  salt. 

TO    CKIMP   FBESH   FISH. 

Cut  in  slices  and  put  in  water,  vinegar,  and  salt, 
three  hours  ;  then  fry  or  broil  them. 

LOBSTEBS   AND    CBABS. 

Put  them  in  boiling  water  with  a  handful  of  salt. 
Boil  half  an  hour  or  more,  in  proportion  to  its  size. 
It  must  not  be  boiled  too  long  or  it  will  be  hard. 
When  done,  take  out  and  wipe  dry ;  then  take  oli  the 
shell  and  take  out  the  blue  veins  and  the  lady-fingers, 
as  they  are  unwholesome.  Send  to  the  table  cold  with 
the  body  and  tail  split  open  and  the  claws  taken  off. 
Lay  the  claws  next  the  body,  the  small  ones  outside  ; 
garnish  with  parsley.  They  must  never  be  cooked 
after  they  are  dead,  but  put  alive  into  boiling  water. 
TO   DBESS   LOBSTEBS    COLD. 

Take  the  fish  out  of  the  shell,  divide  it  in  small 
pieces,  mash  up  the  scarlet  meat,  then  mix  mustai-d, 
Cayenne  pepper,  salt,  vinegar,  sweet  oil,  and  mix  the 
lobster  with  this  mixture  and  serve  m  a  dish. 

CLAMS. 

Wash  them  clean  and  put  in  a  pot  Avith  water  enough 
to  prevent  their  burning,  and  boil  until  the  shells  open, 
then  take  out  and  remove  the  shells.     Cook  m  the 


78  EXCELSIOR   COOK   BOOK 

same  water,  adding  pepper  and  butter.  Stir  in  rolled 
crackers,  or  toast  slices  of  bread  and  lay  in  a  tureen, 
and  pour  the  clams  over.  Long  clams  are  nice  taken 
out  of  the  shells  and  broiled. 

CLAM     PAWCAKES. 

Make  a  batter  of  milk,  flour  and  eggs,  and  if  small, 
stew  the  clams  and  put  in  whole  ;  if  large,  chop  them 
without  stewing ;  season  with  pepper  and  salt,  and 
fry  on  a  griddle.  Oysters  may  be  made  in  the  same 
way,  only  not  cooked  nor  chopped.  Part  of  the  oys- 
ter-juice may  be  added  to  the  milk.  They  are  nice 
kept  frozen  in  the  winter-time  and  used  when  wanted  ;, 
freezing  makes  them  more  tender. 

FRIED    OYSTERS. 

Take  those  that  are  large,  wipe  with  a  napkin,  and 
then  dip  in  beaten  eggs,  then  in  bread-crumbs  or  flour, 
and  fry  in  lard  or  butter.  They  are  nice  dipped  in  a 
batter  and  fried.  They  can  be  kept  several  montha 
by  frying  while  fresh,  seasoned  with  salt  and  pepper, 
then  corked  tight  in  a  bottle.  When  eaten,  warm  in 
a  little  water.     They  are  nice  to  garnish  fish. 

OYSTER   PATTIES. 

Stew  oysters  with  cloves,  nutmeg,  yolks  of  hard- 
boiled  eggs,  a  little  butter,  liquor  enough  to  cover 
them ;  Avhen  stewed  a  few  moments  take  out  to  cool. 
Have  shells  of  pufF-paste  baked  in  patty-pans,  and 
three  or  four  oysters  in  each. 

STEWED    OYSTERS.    NO.   1. 

Rinse  off  the  oysters  and  strain  the  liquor  to  get 
off  the  bits  of  shell  that  adhere  to  the  oyster.  Heat 
the  liquor  and  add  water,  if  not  enough ;  then  turn  in 
the  oysters  ;  stir  in  a  little  flour  made  smooth  or  rolled 
crackers.  Let  them  boil  up  two  minutes  and  j^our 
out.  No  salt  should  be  added  until  taken  out,  or  they 
Avill  shrink  and  be  hard.  Eat  with  crackers  or  but- 
tered toast. 

OYSTER   PIE. 

Line  a  deep  plate  with  pastry,  fill  it  with  pieces  of 
bread,  cover  with  nice  pastry,  and  bake  of  a  light 


AND   housekeeper's   AID.  V9 

brown  Have  the  oysters  stewed  and  seasoned  just  as 
the  pakry  is  baked.  Take  off  the  upper  crust,  remove 
the  bread,  and  put  in  the  oysters;  cove^'/^l.tlij  ^ 
crust  and  serve  while  hot.  Another  way  is  to  Une  the 
dish  with  pastry  and  put  in  the  oysters,  and  cover  with 
pastry,  and  bake  from  half  an  hour  to  three  quarters. 

SCOLLOPED   OYSTEKS. 

Pound  crackers  or  rusk  fine.  Then  butter  small 
tin  pans  and  put  in  alternate  layers  of  oysters  and 
crumbs,  having  a  layer  of  cmmbs  on  top  ;  season  with 
butter,  salt,  aifd  pepper ;  add  oyster-juice  to  moisten 
the  whole.     Bake  until  brown. 

TO  PICKLE  OYSTERS. 
Take  them  out  of  their  liquor  and  pour  boiling 
water  on  them ;  then  take  them  out  and  put  m  a  kettle 
with  iust  water  enough  to  cover  them,  with  a  large 
Tpoonful  of  salt  to  a  hundred  oysters  ;  let  boil  up  and 
take  out,  then  spread  on  a  board  and  cover  with  a 
cloth.  With  every  pint  of  the  liquor  add  a  quart  ot 
o-ood  vinegar,  a  tea-spoonful  of  mace,  a  table-spoonful 
of  whole  cloves,  the  same  of  black  pepper.  Heat  the 
whole  together,  and  when  it  boils  stir  m  the  oysters 
five  minuses.     Let  them  cool  and  then  put  m  jars  and 

'^Another  way,  is  to  scald  the  oysters  in  their  own 
liquor.  Take  vinegar  and  heat  scaldmg  hot,  with 
whole  cloves  and  pepper-corns,  also  mace  When  the 
oysters  and  .vinegar  are  lukewarm,  mix  them,  ihen 
bottle  them  and  cover  tight. 

SOUSED   MACKEREL, 

Clean,  and  boil  in  salt  and  water;  take  equal  quan- 

titles  of  vinegar  and  water  that  they  were  boiled  m. 

Heat  scalding  hot  with  cloves  and  pepper-corns,  then 

turn  on  the  fi^sh.     They  will  be  eatable  in  two  or  three 

^^^^'  STEWED   OYSTERS. 

Strain  all  the  liquor  from  the  oysters ;  thicken  a  very 
little  with  bread-crumbs  or  crackers  ;  season  with  pep- 
per and  butter.     Have  ready  a  tureen  with  eithei 


80  EXCELSIOR   COOK   BOOK 

toasted  bread  or  crackers  laid  in  the  bottom ;  place 
the  oyster  on  top,  and  when  the  liquor  boils  up,  pour 
it  over  the  oysters,  then  cover  the  tureen  and  let  it 
remain  five  or  six  minutes  before  sending  to  the  table. 
Cooking  oysters  in  this  way  wall  prevent  their  shrink- 
ing. The  butter,  when  put  in,  may  be  rolled  in  flour 
if  liked. 

PICKLED    LOBSTEES. 

Boil  them  in  the  usual  manner,  and  after  taking  out 
of  the  shells,  cut  into  pieces  three  inches  long.  Take 
vinegar,  salt,  cloves,  allspice  and  pepper-corns,  and 
boil  ten  minutes ;  then  put  in  the  lobster  and  scald  up. 
Put  in  a  jar  and  keep  in  a  cool  place. 

TO   PICKLE    SHAD   OK   PIKE. 

Have  them  well  cleaned,  then  make  a  j^ickle  by 
mixing  half  a  pound  of  brown  sugar,  four  quarts  of 
rock  salt,  one  of  common  salt,  and  two  ounces  of  salt- 
petre. This  quantity  will  pickle  a  dozen  shad  or  fif- 
teen pike.  Put  a  layer  of  the  mixture  at  the  bottom 
of  a  keg,  then  a  layer  of  fish  with  the  skin-side  dow^n. 
Continue  this  until  full,  having  the  salt  mixture  on 
top.  Have  a  heavy  weight  on  to  keep  them  under  the 
brine. 

PICKLED    SALMON. 

Salmon  .should  be  cut  into  a  number  of  pieces  and 
boiled  in  salt  and  water  until  sufiiciently  cooked  to 
eat.  Take  three  quarts  of  vinegar,  an  ounce  of  pep- 
per-corns, allspice  whole,  scald  together,  and  when 
strongly  spiced  take  from  the  fire,  and  when  cold, 
pour  on  the  salmon. 

PICKLED   TKOUT. 

If  large  cut  in  pieces,  boil  with  salt  and  water.  Put 
in  cold  vinegar  with  whole  cloves,  allspice  and  pepper- 
corns, between  each  layer  of  fish.  Keep  in  a  stone 
jar  in  a  cool  place.  They  should  be  wrapped  in  a 
cloth  or  they  will  boil  to  pieces.     These  are  excellent. 

SPICED    OYSTERS. 

Take  one  hundred  large  fresh  oysters,  put  them  with 
the  liquor  into  a  large  earthen  vessel ;  add  two  table- 


AND    housekeeper's   AID.  81 

spoonfuls  of  good  vinegar,  a  dozen  cloves,  one  nutmeg 
grated,  a  few  blades  of  mace  whole,  one  tea-sj^oonful  of 
salt,  one  of  whole  allspice,  and  a  little  Cayenne  pepper ; 
stir  well  together  and  set  them  over  a  slow  fire,  keep- 
ing them  well  covered.  Take  them  off  occasionally 
and  stir  well  from  the  bottom,  to  prevent  their  burning. 
As  soon  as  they  boil  they  are  done.  Pour  them  out 
into  a  pan  to  cool.  When  cool,  they  will  be  fit  for  eat- 
ing. If  to  be  kept  any  time,  should  have  less  spice,  as 
they  will  taste  too  much  of  it. 

TO    KEEP    OYSTERS    IK    THE    SHELL. 

Lay  them  in  a  heap  in  the  cellar  with  the  concave 
side  upward  to  hold  in  the  liquor.  SjDrinkle  them 
every  day  with  salt  and  water,  and  then  with  Indian 
meal.     Cover  with  an  old  carpet. 

STEWED    OYSTERS.    NO.    2. 

Strain  the  liquor,  and  add  a  glass  of  white  wine, 
some  crumbs  of  stale  bread  and  pepper.  Put  in  the 
oysters  and  let  them  stew  a  few  minutes.  Have  ready 
some  toasted  bread  well  buttered,  then  dip  the  toast  in 
the  liquor  and  lay  around  the  sides  and  bottom  of  a 
dish.     Pour  the  oysters  on  and  send  to  the  table  hot. 

BROILED    FISH. 

Rub  a  little  salt  on  the  bars  of  the  gridiron  to  jire- 
vent  its  sticking  ;  have  a  clear  fire ;  score  your  fish  and 
cook  slowly ;  when  done  on  one  side,  turn  over  and 
cook  on  the  other.  Season  with  salt,  pepper,  and 
melted  butter. 

HADDOCK. 

Clean  well  and  rub  dry  ;  then  rub  salt  over  it  and 
let  it  hang  two  days ;  skin  and  rub  beaten  egg  over, 
and  crumbs  of  bread.     Fry,  broil,  or  bake. 

POTTED   FISH. 

After  being  well  cleaned  cut  in  small  pieces  ;  soak  in 
salt  and  vinegar  for  a  few  hours  and  drain  it.  Lay  in  a 
stone  jar  with  spices  and  pieces  of  butter  till  all  is  in. 
Pour  over  good  cider  vinegar,  a  little  Cayenne  pepper. 
Cover  with  a  crust  of  dough  ;  put  in  a  very  moderate 


82  EXCELSIOR  COOK   BOOK 

oven,  or  in  an  oven  after  bread  has  been  taken  out. 
Take  oiF  the  crust  and  cover  tight.  Any  kind  of  fresh, 
firm  fish  will  answer. 

OYSTEK   SOUP.    NO.   2. 

Put  a  nicely  dressed  chicken  in  a  kettle  with  four 
quarts  of  water ;  season  with  pepper-corns,  allspice, 
four  blades  of  mace,  nutmeg  and  salt;  roll  half  a  pound 
of  butter  in  flour  and  put  in.  KeejD  well  covered  till 
the  chicken  is  tender  ;  then  put  in  the  oyster-liquor  and 
boil  five  minutes ;  take  up  the  chicken  and  strain  the 
liquor,  and  pour  back  into  the  kettle,  and  add  three 
pints  of  oysters ;  boil  up  once  and  serve.  Dress  the 
chicken  separately  or  make  chicken  salad. 

BAKED    EELS. 

Take  eels  that  have  been  skinned  and  cleaned,  cut  in 
pieces ;  then  lay  in  a  shallow  pan,  setting  the  pieces 
upright ;  season  with  pepper,  salt,  sweet  herbs,  parsley 
cut  small,  and  a  little  water.  Bake  till  done,  then  stir 
in  some  flour  made  smooth,  and  serve.  They  should 
be  jDreviously  boiled. 

VEGETABLES. 

POTATOES. 

Almost  every  person  understands  cooking  potatoes, 
nevertheless  it  will  not  be  amiss  to  give  a  few  hints  in 
regard  to  cooking  this  vegetable,  which  has  become 
almost  the  "  staff  of  life."  In  the  first  place,  care  should 
be  taken  to  procure  the  best  kind;  but  as  potatoes 
change  so  much,  (in  consequence  of  the  rot,)  I  can  not 
mention  which  w^ould  be  the  best — one  must  be  guid- 
ed by  circumstances.  In  winter  they  should  be  kept 
w^here  they  will  not  freeze,  and  in  summer  in  a  dry 
place,  and  the  sprouts  should  be  broken  off  occasionally. 
Always  have  the  water  boiling  hot  when  the  potatoes 
are  dropped  in.  If  boiled  with  the  skins  on,  they  will 
be  strong,  except  when  new;  give  old  ones  an  hour  to 
boil,  new  ones  half  an  hour.  Potatoes  are  nice  baked, 
but  require  a  slow  oven.  Boiled  and  mashed,  wdth 
cream  or  butter  enough  to  moisten,  with  a  little  salt,  is 


AND   HOrSEKEEPER'S   AID.  83 

the  best  and  most  common  way  of  cooking  ;  then  put 
them  in  a  dish,  smooth  the  top  with  a  knife,  and  lay- 
butter  on  in  spots ;  sprinkle  a  little  pepper  over  and 
send  to  the  table  hot.  Cold  ones  may  be  warmed 
diflerent  ways :  cut  in  thin  slices  and  warmed  in  cream 
is  nice.  Another  way  is  to  slice  and  broil  on  a  grid- 
iron, or  fry  in  butter,  sj^rinkling  salt  and  pepper  over 
them.  They  can  be  grated  and  mixed  with  the  yolk  of 
egg   and  fried  in  butter,   after  being  made  in  small 

O  *1  K  P  ^ 

SA^EET    POTATOES. 

The  best  way  to  cook  sweet  potatoes  is  to  bake  them ; 
for  a  change,  they  can  be  boiled  and  peeled  as  other 
potatoes,  or  half-boiled  and  sliced  and  fried  in  butter. 

TUKNIPS. 

The  large  English  sweet  turnip  is  the  best,  as  they 
are  not  watery.  Pare  them  and  slice,  then  drop  them 
in  a  kettle  of  boiling  water  and  let  them  boil  as  long 
as  potatoes  ;  when  done,  drain  off  the  water  and  mash 
w^ith  salt ;  put  in  a  dish  and  smooth  the  top  with  a 
knife  ;  put  on  pieces  of  butter  and  sprinkle  on  pepper ; 
send  to  the  table  hot.  If  cooked  with  salt  meat,  cut  in 
quarters  and  send  to  the  table  whole. 

RUTA    BAGA 

is  large  and  of  a  reddish  color.    Pare  them  and  quarter, 

or  cut  in  slices  and  let  them  remain  in  cold  water  an 

hour  or  so  ;    then  boil  two  hours ;   mash  like  other 

turnips. 

onflows. 

They  should  be  put  in  a  linen  bag  and  kept  in  a  dry 
cool  place  ;  when  boiled  they  should  be  put  in  milk  and 
water  to  take  away  the  strong  taste ;  an  hour  is  requir- 
ed for  boiling,  but  it  is  well  to  try  them  with  a  fork, 
for  if  boiled  too  much  they  will  be  watery.  When 
taken  up,  the  water  should  be  pressed  out,  and  seasoned 
with  butter,  salt,  and  pepper;  it  is  well  to  throw  a 
handful  of  salt  in  while  boiling.  Another  way  of  cook- 
ing is  to  pare  and  slice  them,  then  fry  in  pork  gravy  or 
butter ;  season  well  with  salt  and  pepper ;  while  cooking 


84  EXCELSIOR   COOK   BOOK 

it  is  well  to  put  in  a  little  water.  This  is  nice  for  a 
breakfast  dish.  They  can  also  be  baked  and  then 
seasoned. 

\^7■IK"TER    SQUASH. 

They  should  be  kept  in  a  dry  warm  place  during  the 
winter  and  will  kee23  until  spring.  Pare  them  and  cut 
out  the  inside ;  cut  in  strips  and  boil  half  an  hour ; 
when  done,  season  as  turnips  and  send  to  the  table  hot. 
They  are  better  baked. 

SUMMEB     SQUASH. 

Cut  off  the  top  and  end,  and  quarter ;  boil  half  an 
hour  and  then  put  them  in  a  strainer  and  press  out  the 
water,  then  turn  in  a  j)an  and  season  with  butter  and 
salt. 

ASPARAGUS. 

Cut  before  they  grow  so  as  to  be  tough ;  cut  up  in 
small  pieces,  wash  and  turn  on  water  ;  boil  until  tender, 
(they  must  be  cooked  in  tin,)  then  take  a  little  flour 
with  cream  and  salt,  stir  in,  and  when  hot  take  off  and 
send  to  the  table  hot.  Another  way  is  to  tie  the  stalks 
together,  heads  one  way,  lay  them  in  boiling  water, 
with  salt,  until  tender  ;  toast  bread  and  moisten  with 
water,  lay  on  a  dish,  then  drain  the  asparagus  aud  lay 
the  heads  inward,  spread  on  the  toast  and  pour  over  it 
melted  butter. 

CAULIFLOWEK. 

Cut  off  the  flower  and  soak  in  cold  water  awhile, 
then  tie  in  a  cloth  and  drop  in  boiling  water,  or  milk 
and  water ;  skim  well  while  boiling ;  when  tender, 
which  will  be  in  an  hour,  take  up  and  drain ;  send  to 
the  table  with  melted  butter.  This  is  nice  pickled  as 
cabbage. 

CABBAGE. 

This  vegetable  should  be  buried  in  drills  during  the 
winter  season,  and  as  a  head  is  wanted  it  can  be  taken 
out,  without  disturbing  the  rest,  and  will  be  as  fresh 
as  in  the  fall.  If  put  in  the  cellar,  they  will  wilt. 
When  used,  they  should  be  carefully  examined,  and 
placed  in  salt  and  water  a  few  minutes,  to  draAV  any 
worms  that  mi^ht  be  in  the  leaves,    Boil  an  hour  with 


AND   housekeeper's   AID.  85 

salt  meat,  either  pork  or  beef,  tlien  drain  and  chop 
fine,  (which  can  be  done  with  a  knife,)  put  in  a  piece 
of  butter,  and  sprinkle  pepper  over  the  top  ;  eat  with 
vinegar.  Another  way  is  to  cut  fine,  with  a  knife 
made  on  purpose,  then  put  in  a  basin  with  a  very  little 
water,  just  enough  to  keep  from  burning  on  the  basin  ; 
after  cooking  about  ten  minutes,  wet  a  table-spoonful 
of  flour  with  thick  cream,  add  a  little  salt,  stir  in  while 
boiling,  then  pour  in  vinegar,  and  take  ofi";  eat  while 
hot ;  or  you  may  leave  out  the  vinegar  if  you  like. 
Another  method  is  to  chop  fine  and  turn  in  vinegar, 
with  a  piece  of  butter  and  salt ;  cook  ten  minutes,  and 
eat  hot ;  or  turn  on  vinegar  and  salt,  and  eat  cold  with- 
out warming.     Some  prefer  it  in  this  way. 

BEETS. 

The  young  beets,  when  thinned  out  in  summer,  are 
nice  for  greens  ;  take  tops  and  all ;  when  grown  large 
enough  to  cook,  wash  clean  with  a  cloth,  but  be  careful 
not  to  break  the  skin,  (or  they  will  lose  their  flavor 
while  cooking ;)  boil  from  two  to  three  hours  ;  when 
kept  longer  they  require  more  time ;  when  tender,  take 
up  and  drop  into  a  pan  of  cold  water  a  moment,  when 
the  skin  can  easily  be  taken  off";  then  slice  them  thin 
and  sprinkle  on  pepper  and  salt,  wdth  melted  butter 
and  vinegar.  They  are  nice  cut  lengthwise,  and  drop- 
ped in  spiced  vinegar  until  pickled.  They  are  better 
baked  and  eaten  like  potatoes. 

PARSlSriPS. 

Parsnips  may  be  scraped  and  boiled  tender ;  then 
mashed  in  a  stewpan  with  a  little  cream  and  butter, 
also,  salt,  and  sprinkle  pepper  on  top.  They  may  be 
cut  lengthwise,  and  cooked  with  a  few  slices  of  j^ork, 
Avith  just  water  enough  to  cook  tender. 

CARROTS. 

Half-boil,  then  take  off*  the  skin,  and  slice  in  a  stew- 
pan.  Put  in  a  piece  of  butter,  a  tea-cupful  of  water, 
half  a  cupful  of  cream,  pepper  and  salt ;  then  simmer 
until  tender,  but  not  broken  ;  wet  up  a  little  flour,  and 


86  EXCELSIOR   COOK  BOOK 

Stir  carefully  in  just  before  taking  up.    Another  way  to 
cook  them  is  to  boil  with  salt  meat. 

MUSHKOOMS. 

A  person  should  be  acquainted  with  the  different 
sorts  of  vegetables  by  this  name,  as  many  persons  have 
been  poisoned  by  using  the  wrong  kind.  The  eatable 
kmd  appears  very  small,  of  a  round  form,  on  a  little 
stalk.  They  grow  very  fast,  and  the  upper  part  and 
stalk  are  Avhite.  As  they  grow,  the  under  part  opens, 
and  is  of  a  fringy  fur,  of  a  fine  salmon  color ;  and  as 
the  mushroom  grows  turns  to  a  dark  brown.  The  skin 
can  be  easily  parted  from  the  edges  and  middle.  Those 
that  have  white  or  yellow  fur  should  be  avoided. 

TO    STE^W    MUSHROOMS. 

The  large  buttons  are  best,  and  small  flaps  while  the 
fur  is  still  red.  Rub  the  large  buttons  with  salt  and  a 
flannel ;  cut  out  the  fur  and  take  off  the  skin  from  the 
others ;  sprinkle  with  salt  and  put  into  a  stewpan  with 
some  pepper-corns  ;  simmer  slowly  until  done,  then  piit 
in  a  piece  of  butter  wdth  flour  and  a  little  cream,  and 
take  up. 

TO    STE^W    CUCUMBERS. 

Slice  them  quite  thick,  strew  with  a  little  salt  and 
pepper,  with  a  little  butter,  and  simmer  slowly  until 
tender,  then  add  a  little  flour  wet  with  w^ater ;  onions 
are  nice  fried  with  them.  Another  way  is  to  slice  the 
onions  and  cucumbers,  and  flour  nicely;  then  fry  in 
butter,  and  when  browned  on  one  side,  turn  over  and 
fry  on  the  other. 

TO    STEW    CELERY. 

Strip  off  the  outer  leaves  and  wash  clean ;  halve  or 
leave  whole,  according  to  their  size,  cut  in  lengths  ot 
about  three  inches ;  stew  until  tender,  with  a  little 
butter  and  water ;  then  add  a  little  cream,  and  flour 
seasoned  with  salt,  nutmeg  and  pepper,  simmer  together. 

VEGETABLE    OYSTERS,    OR   SALSIFY. 

This  plant  grows  like  parsnips,  and  when  cooked, 
has  the  taste  of  the  oyster.  They  should  be  scraped 
and  sliced  thin,  then  boil  in  water  until  tender,  when 


AND   housekeeper's   AID.  87 

season  with  pepper,  salt,  and  stir  in  a  little  flour,  after 
wetting  in  a  little  cold  water,  a  large  piece  of  butter ; 
toast  some  bread  and  lay  in  a  deep  dish,  then  turn  on, 
and  eat  as  you  would  oysters.  Some  prefer  adding  a 
little  milk  to  the  water  when  boiling.  The  root  may 
be  partly  boiled,  and  then  chopped  and  made  in  balls, 
then  floured  and  fried  in  butter,  or  dipped  in  batter. 

SPIKTACH. 

Pick  clean,  and  wash ;  drain  and  put  in  boiling 
water,  removing  the  scum  as  it  rises.  When  tender, 
drain,  and  press  it  well ;  chop  it  fine,  then  put  in  a 
saucepan  with  a  piece  of  butter,  pepper,  and  salt ;  let 
it  stew  a  few  minutes,  stirring  all  the  time.  It  requires 
ten  minutes  to  boil. 

EGG-    PL  AWT. 

The  purple  is  better  than  the  white  ;  they  must  be 
boiled  in  plenty  of  water  until  tender,  then  take  up, 
and  take  ofi*  the  skins,  and  drain ;  cut  them  up  and 
wash  in  a  deep  dish  or  pan ;  mix  some  grated  bread, 
powdered  sweet  marjoram,  a  piece  of  butter,  and  a  few 
pounded  cloves ;  grate  a  layer  of  bread  over  the  top, 
and  brown  in  the  oven ;  send  to  the  table  in  the  same 
dish.  It  is  generally  eaten  at  breakfast.  If  you  fry 
them,  slice  without  paring,  about  half  an  inch  thick, 
and  let  them  remain  in  cold  water  an  hour  or  two, 
throw  a  little  salt  in  to  take  away  the  strong  taste ; 
when  taken  out,  wipe  dry,  and  season  with  pepper 
and  salt ;  beat  the  yolk  of  egg,  and  grate  some  bread- 
crumbs ;  have  ready,  in  a  frying-pan,  some  lard  and 
butter  hot ;  dip  the  plant  in  the  egg,  then  in  the 
crumbs,  and  fry  brown;  taking  care  to  have  them 
done  through ;  otherwise  they  will  be  unpalatable. 

PEAS. 

They  should  be  cooked  as  soon  as  shelled,  or  they 
will  lose  their  flavor ;  have  the  water  boiling,  and 
only  just  enough  to  cook  them ;  season  with  salt,  pep- 
per, and  butter,  or  sweet  cream ;  they  will  cook  from 
a  half-hour  to  an  hour,  according  to  age.  Another 
method :  place  several  leaves  of  lettuce  in  your  sauce- 


88  EXCELSIOR   COOK  BOOK 

pan,  then  put  in  your  peas,  with  an  ounce  of  butter  to 
two  quarts  of  peas ;  cover  close,  and  place  over  the 
fire.  In  thirty  minutes  they  will  be  clone  ;  season  with 
pepper  and  salt.  Another  way  is  to  take  one  quart  of 
peas,  one  onion  sliced,  a  head  of  lettuce,  washed  clean, 
a  piece  of  butter,  pep23er,  salt,  and  no  more  water  than 
hangs  round  the  lettuce  from  washing  ;  stew  them  two 
hours  very ,  gently ;  when  done,  beat  up  an  egg  and 
stir  in,  or  a  spoonful  of  flour  and  butter. 

SAVEET    COKN. 

Is  very  nice  boiled  on  the  cob,  and  is  the  common 
method  of  cooking  it;  a  handful  of  salt  should  be 
thrown  in  while  boiling.  It  is  sweeter  to  let  part  of 
the  husk  remain  on  until  boiled. 

SUCCOTASH. 

Cut  the  corn  from  the  cob,  and  boil  with  new  shelled 
beans  ;  it  will  require  half  an  hour  or  more ;  season 
with  butter  or  sweet  cream,  pepper,  and  salt. 

CABBAGE    SALAD. 

Chop  one  head  of  cabbage  in  a  chopping-bowl ; 
then  put  in  a  pan  or  basin ;  turn  on  cold  water  with 
two  table-spoonfuls  of  salt  and  let  it  remain  two  hours  ; 
then  drain,  and  pour  on  the  following  mixture  :  Beat 
four  eggs  to  a  froth  with  a  pint  of  good  cider  vinegar, 
and  place  over  the  fire  until  thick  and  scalding  hot ;  be 
careful  to  stir  all  the  time ;  take  from  the  fire  before  it 
boils,  and  add  a  large  spoonful  of  mixed  mustard,  two 
tea-spoonfuls  of  black  pepper,  a  little  salt,  say  two  tea- 
spoonfuls,  half  a  cup  of  melted  butter  or  salad  oil ;  it 
must  not  be  mixed  with  the  cabbage  until  cold.  It 
will  keep  several  weeks  if  kept  in  a  cool  place.  Cream 
used  in  the  place  of  butter  is  good  for  immediate  use. 

SLAW. 

Melt  in  a  sauce-pan  a  piece  of  butter  or  beef-drip- 
pings the  size  of  a  hen's  egg ;  when  hot,  put  in  the 
cabbage,  (having  previously  cut  it  in  strips,)  and  stir  it 
Avith  an  iron  spoon  until  tender,  which  will  be  in  about 
twenty  minutes  ;  season  with  salt  and  pepper,  also  a 
cup  of  vinegar ;  then  take  up. 


AND   housekeeper's   AID.  89 

GREENS. 

Cowslips,  dandelions,  mustard,  water-cresses,  spin- 
ach, pig-weed,  milk-weed,  and  young  beets,  tops  and 
all,  are  nice  for  greens  ;  they  should,  be  well  looked 
over,  and  washed  before  using ;  put  in  clean  water 
and  boil  fifteen  minutes,  then  drain,  and  boil  with  salt 
meat,  either  pork  or  beef,  until  tender.  A  mixture  of 
greens  are  better  than  all  one  kind  ;  young  nettles  are 
nice,  also  plantain  put  in  with  other  greens. 

HOMINY. 

Wash  in  cold  water,  and  boil  five  hours  with  a  quart 
of  water  to  a  pint  of  hominy ;  turn  off  all  the  water 
and  add  butter  and  salt,  or  the  water  may  be  dried 
off,  as  for  rice. 

FRENCH    OR   STRING   BEANS. 

Take  off  the  strings  and  cut  in  pieces  half  an  inch 
long ;  boil  Avith  a  little  saleratus,  which  not  only  pre- 
serves the  green  color,  but  makes  them  more  digest- 
ible ;  say  a  quarter  of  a  tea-spoonful  to  half  a  peck  of 
beans  ;  if  young,  they  will  boil  in  half  an  hour ;  butter 
after  taking  out  of  the  liquor ;  salt  should  be  added 
while  boiling.  A  better  way  is  to  cook  without  salera- 
tus, with  just  water  enough  to  cook  them  tender,  and 
just  before  taking  them  up,  put  in  a  tea-cupful  of  sweet 
cream,  a  piece  of  butter,  pepper,  and  salt. 

BAKED  BEANS. 

The  small  white  beans  are  best  for  baking ;  they 
should  be  picked  over  and  washed  clean ;  then  turn 
on  cold  water,  and  let  them  remain  all  night ;  in  the 
morning  take  them  out,  and  put  in  a  kettle  with 
water,  also  a  piece  of  pork,  and  boil  until  nearly  ten- 
der, adding  a  little  saleratus  to  render  them  healthy ; 
then  take  out  and  gash  the  pork,  and  place  in  a  pan 
•  with  only  the  rind  seen  ;  bake  two  hours  in  an  oven; 
pepper  should  be  sprinkled  on  the  top,  and  if  the  pork 
is  not  sufficient  to  make  them  salt,  add  more  before 
baking ;  some  put  in  a  few  spoonfuls  of  molasses 
before  baking. 


90  EXCELSIOR   COOK   BOOK 

OCHRA. 

Take  an  equal  quantity  of  young  tender  ochra, 
chopped  fine,  and  ripe  tomatoes,  two  onions  sliced,  and 
a  small  lump  of  butter  ;  stew  with  a  large  spoonful  of 
water  ;  season  with  pej^per  and  salt. 

MACAKONI. 

Take  two  oimces  of  macaroni,  one  pint  of  water, 
and  one  of  milk,  add  a  tea-spoonful  of  salt ;  stew  until 
tender,  then  cut  in  small  pieces  and  butter  it. 

LIMA    BEANS. 

Wash  and  boil  until  tender,  which  will  be  about 
two  hours  ;  season  with  salt,  pep]3er,  butter,  or  cream ; 
use  only  water  sufficient.  They  may  be  kept  through 
the  winter  by  gathering  them  on  a  dry  day,  before 
they  get  hard,  and  packing  them  in  a  keg  ;  put  salt  at 
the  bottom,  then  a  layer  of  pods,  then  salt,  and  so  on 
until  full ;  put  a  weight  on  and  keep  in  a  cool  place  ; 
when  used,  soak  over  night  in  cold  water,  shell  the 
next  day,  and  soak  until  ready  to  boil ;  they  may  be 
shelled  and  dried  as  other  beans  and  then  soaked  be- 
fore using. 

DKY    GREElSr    CORN". 

Gather  when  ready  to  boil ;  strip  off  the  husks,  and 
drop  into  boiling  water ;  let  the  water  boil  over  the 
ears  ;  then  take  out  and  shell  off  the  corn  by  running 
the  prong  of  a  fork  through.  This  method  is  the  best 
as  it  saves  the  kernel  Avhole,  and  is  easily  done  ;  spread 
on  clean  boards,  and  dry  quickly,  as  it  is  apt  to  sour 
if  not.  When  cooked,  soak  over  night,  and  boil  in 
the  same  water  the  next  morning ;  it  should  be  well 
washed  before  soaking ;  season  with  butter,  pepper, 
salt,  and  cream.  This  is  a  nice  dish  in  the  winter ; 
some  prefer  cutting  it  off  the  cobs  before  boiling,  and 
drying  in  the  oven,  but  I  prefer  the  former  metliod. 

ARTICHOKES 

are  good  cut  in  thin  slices,  with  vinegar,  pepper,  and 
salt.  When  cooked  they  must  be  boiled  until  tender, 
keeping  them  closely  covered  ;  serve  with  melted  but- 
ter, in  as  many  cups  as  artichokes. 


AND   housekeeper's   AID.  91 

TOMATOES. 

Take  those  that  are  fully  ripe;  turn  on  boiling 
water ;  let  them  remain  a  few  minutes,  when  the  skins 
will  easily  peel  oft*;  then  pnt  in  a  stewpan  with  butter, 
pepper,  salt,  and  sugar  ;  toast  some  bread  and  lay  in  a 
deep  dish,  pour  on,  or  eat  without  the  toast,  with 
meat ;  they  should  be  cooked  nntil  soft,  which  will  be 
in  fifteen  minntes  ;  it  is  much  improved  by  turning  off 
the  water,  and  then  seasoning;  they  are  very  nice 
cooked  as  follows.  After  taking  oft"  the  skin,  lay  them 
in  a  deep  dish,  with  alternate  layers  of  bread-crumbs ; 
season  each  layer  with  salt,  pepper,  butter,  and  sugar, 
and  add  cloves  if  liked  ;  put  a  layer  of  bread-crumbs 
on  top,  and  bake  three  quarters  of  an  hour ;  they  are 
nice  sliced  up  raw,  with  vinegar,  salt,  and  pepper,  on 
them,  and  some  like  sugar  ;  or  they  may  be  eaten  with 
sugar  and  cream  alone. 

SEA    KALE. 

This  is  prepared  on  toast  like  asparagus. 

GREEN   TOMATOES. 

Green  tomatoes  are  nice  sliced  and  fried  in  butter 
or  beef-drippings,  seasoned  with  pepper  and  salt,  also 
sugar ;  onions  or  green  apples  may  be  sliced  up  with 
them  if  liked. 

CELERIAC. 

This  vegetable  is  very  much  like  celery,  but  is  but 
little  known ;  it  is  more  easily  cultivated.  Scrape  and 
cut  in  slices;  boil  until  tender;  then  take  out  of  the 
water,  and  stew  a  few  minutes  in  milk,  with  a  little 
salt ;  add  butter  when  dished  up.  The  roots  are  good 
boiled  tender,  and  put  into  soups  or  meat  pies. 

ASPARAGUS.  NO.  2. 

Beat  four  eggs  light ;  melt  two  ounces  of  butter,  and 
add  with  pepper  and  salt,  then  pour  over  toasted  bread ; 
have  the  asparagus  well  cooked,  and  pour^  over  the 
whole.     Serve  hot,  and  you  will  find  it  delicious. 

BROCCOLI. 

Strip  oft"  all  the  side  shoots,  leaving  the  top ;  peel  off 
the  skin  of  the  stalk ;  cut  close  off  at  the  bottom,  and 


92  EXCELSIOR   COOK   POOK 

put  into  a  pan  of  cold  water ;  let  it  remain  until  you 
can  boil  some  water,  then  throw  in  with  salt ;  let  it  boil 
briskly,  till  tender ;  take  up  with  a  slice,  that  it  may  not 
break.     It  is  nice  served  on  toast,  like  asparagus. 

BRUSSELS    SPOUTS. 

Trim  and  wash  clean ;  then  throw  into  cold  water 
an  hour  ;  have  some  water  boiling,  and  put  in  with  a 
handful  of  salt ;  boil  till  tender.  Drain  off  the  water, 
and  serve  hot. 

TO    STEW    CELERY. 

Cut  up  in  pieces ;  take  off  the  green  ends ;  stew  in 
milk  and  water,  till  tender ;  thicken  with  a  little  flour ; 
add  a  little  butter ;  boil  up  ;  then  add  two  eggs  beaten, 
with  a  cup  of  cream,  pepper,  and  salt. 

FRIED    POTATOES. 

Peel  uncooked  potatoes ;  wash  clean,  and  cut  in  thin 
slices ;  then  fry  in  butter  of  a  nice  brown ;  lay  them 
upon  another  dish,  and  send  to  the  table  hot. 

NEW    POTATOES    IK    BUTTER. 

Scrape  new  potatoes,  and  wash  clean  ;  put  in  a  sauce- 
pan, with  a  piece  of  butter  the  size  of  an  egg ;  cover 
tight,  and  stew  slowly.  This  is  a  nice  way  of  doing 
new  potatoes  ;  and,  if  you  like,  mash  them  when  done, 
and  add  a  little  salt  and  cream. 

TO  FRY  POTATOES. 

Pare  and  slice  thin ;  fry  in  plenty  of  nice  lard,  and 
drain  in  a  sieve ;  or  j^eel  large  potatoes,  round  and 
round,  as  you  would  an  apple,  in  shavings,  and  fry  un- 
til brown ;  then  drain  in  a  sieve ;  sprinkle  salt  on  when 
sent  to  the  table.  A  very  nice  way  to  do  them,  is  to 
take  mashed  potatoes,  and  make  in  little  flat  cakes, 
then  dip  in  the  beaten  yolk  of  an  egg,  and  then  in  flour 
or  bread-crumbs,  and  fry  in  butter.  They  look  very 
nice. 

BAKED    TOMATOES. 

Take  out  the  seeds,  and  fill  up  with  bread-crumbs ; 
then  put  in  a  square  tin,  and  bake  ;  eat  with  butter  and 
sugar,  cream  if  you  like.     Take  a  dozen  large  toma- 


AND   housekeeper's   AID.  93 

toes ;  pour  on  boiling  water  to  take  off  the  skins ;  cut 
in  slices  in  a  stewpan;  add  a  tea-cup  and  a  half  of 
bread-crumbs,  a  table-spoonful  of  salt,  a  tea-spoonful 
of  pepper,  and  four  spoonfuls  of  butter ;  let  them  stew 
gently  four  or  five  hours.  Fifteen  minutes  before  serv; 
ing,  beat  up  six  eggs ;  boil  up,  stirring  all  the  time. 

PICKLING-. 

Pickles  should  always  be  made  in  brass,  copper,  or 
tin,  and  never  allowed  to  remain  in  them  longer  than 
while  they  are  warming.  Cider  vinegar  is  the  best  for 
pickling.  Boil  your  spices  with  a  little  alum  in  your 
vinegar.  I  think  it  kills  the  life  of  the  vinegar  to  heat 
it  much.  I  prefer  to  scald  my  spices  in  a  tin  cup,  with 
a  little  vinegar,  and  pour  in.  The  pickles  will  keep 
longer-  than  they  will  if  boiled  with  the  vinegar.  If 
wanted  for  immediate  use,  they  may  be  scalded.  For 
ripe  tomatoes,  the  vinegar  should  always  be  cold,  as 
they  will  soften  if  put  into  warm  vinegar.  Wooden 
tubs,  or  stone  jars  are  best  for  pickles.  They  should 
never  be  put  into  glazed  earthenware,  as  it  contains 
lead,  and  will  combine  with  the  vinegar,  which  ren- 
ders them  poisonous.  A  cloth  should  be  kept  on  top, 
to  take  up  the  scum  as  it  rises,  then  rinse  it  off  in  cold 
water,  and  put  back. 

Pickles  should  be  stirred  occasionally,  and  if  any 
soft  ones  are  found,  they  must  be  taken  out.  If  the 
vinegar  is  too  sharp,  it  will  eat  the  pickles.  If  too 
weak,  pour  off  and  add  more,  putting  in  more  alum,  as 
that  hardens  them.  Salt  kills  the  life  of  the  vinegar, 
and  but  little  should  be  used.  Any  thing  that  has  held 
grease  will  spoil  pickles.  If  vinegar  is  boiled  for  pick- 
les, it  should  not  be  boiled  but  a  few  minutes.  Brass 
or  copper  should  be  perfectly  cleaned  before  using. 
Never  keejD  pickles  in  glazed  jars.  Many  families  have 
been  poisoned  thereby. 

A    NICE    'WAY    OF    PICKLINa    CUCUMBERS. 

Pick  every  day  from  the  vines ;  wash  clean  with  a 
cloth ;  be  careful  not  to  bruise  them,  and  if  cut  from 
the  vines  with  a  little  stem  on,  they  will  keep  better. 


94  EXCELSIOR   COOK   BOOK 

Make  a  brine  of  rock  salt,  strong  enough  to  bear  up 
an  egg;  jDut  them  in  a  tub,  or  stone  jar,  and  cover 
with  the  brine.  In  tAventy-four  hours  stir  from  the 
bottom;  then  pour  off  the  brine,  and  scald  it;  then 
pour  over  them  again ;  let  stand  nine  days,  boiling  and 
skimming  the  brine  every  third  day ;  then  take  them 
out  and  rinse  in  cold  water,  and  if  too  salt,  let  them 
soak  awhile;  wash  the  tub  or  jar  clean;  put  them  in 
again,  and  pour  on  cold  vinegar,  or  scald  it,  just  as  you 
like.  If  spice  is  added,  it  may  be  tied  in  a  bag,  and 
thrown  in,  with  a  little  alum,  and  red  pepper ;  cover 
tight ;  if  a  scum  rises,  scald,  pour  on  again ;  keep  a 
cloth  on  top ;  put  in  mustard. 

A    MORE    DELICATE    PICKLE. 

When  fresh  picked,  pour  on  boiling  water,  with  a  lit- 
tle salt ;  let  them  remain  four  or  five  hours ;  then  put 
into  cold  vinegar,  with  alum  dissolved.  When  you 
have  finished  collecting  the  cucumbers,  turn  the  vine- 
gar from  them ;  scald  and  skim  it,  until  clear ;  then 
scald  the  cucumbers,  but  not  boil,  adding  ginger-root, 
pepper-corns,  and  red  peppers,  sufiicient  to  spice  the 
pickles ;  if  scum  rises  on  top,  scald  the  vinegar,  and 
pour  on  hot ;  if  weak,  throw  away,  and  add  more,  with 
more  alum  ;  if  any  are  soft,  take  them  out.  If  wanted 
for  a  sweet  pickle,  add  sugar  when  scalded. 

TO    PICKLE    MUSHROOMS. 

Stew  in  salt  and  water,  just  enough  to  prevent  their 
sticking ;  then  pour  ofi"  the  water,  and  jmt  in  cold  spiced 
vinegar.     Cork  tight  and  keep  in  a  cool  place. 

BUTTERNUTS    AND    BLACK    "WALNUTS.    NO.  2. 

Take  them  green,  when  a  knitting-needle  can  easily 
be  run  through  them ;  soak  in  salt  water  for  a  week, 
often  changing  the  brine ;  then  drain  ofi"  the  water,  and 
wipe  with  a  dry  towel,  a  coarse  one  is  best,  until  they 
Ijccome  smooth.  To  each  gallon  of  vinegar  used,  add 
half  an  ounce  of  allspice,  the  same  of  pepper-corns,  a 
table-spoonful  of  mace,  and  cloves,  a  tea-cupful  of  salt ; 
let  them  remain  a  week,  then  turn  the  vinegar  olf,  and 


AND   housekeeper's   AID.  95 

scald  it,  boiling  hot,  and  pour  on.     The  vinegar  in 
which  they  are  pickled  will  make  nice  catsup. 

YELLO^W    PICKLE. 

Take  thirty  ripe  cucumbers,  pare  and  split  them  J 
take  the  seeds  out ;  spread  them  on  a  board ;  sprinkle 
a  little  salt  over  them ;  let  them  remain  twelve  hours ; 
then  put  them  in  the  sun,  and  let  them  remain  imtil 
dry,  turning  them  every  day,  and  bringing  them  in  at 
night ;  then  wash  them  in  vinegar ;  then  put  them  in  a 
jar,  with  a  layer  of  mustard  seed,  horse-radish,  onions, 
sliced,  alternately.  Take  two  quarts  of  vinegar,  one 
ounce  of  race  mustard,  a  few  cloves,  allspice,  and  cin- 
namon ;  let  it  simmer  awhile ;  when  cool,  pour  it  on 
on  the  pickles.  They  will  keep  for  years.  The  onions 
can  be  left  out,  if  wished. 

TOMATO    PICCALILLY. 

Take  one  peck  of  green  tomatoes ;  put  a  half-pint  of 
salt  on  them ;  stew  them  fifteen  minutes  ;  then  let  them 
stand  all  night;  drain  the  water  off;  then  slice  them, 
and  put  a  layer  of  sliced  onions,  alternately,  with  the 
spices.  Take  one  quarter  of  a  pound  of  ground  mus- 
tard, one  quarter  of  a  pound  white  mustard,  two  ounces 
of  black  pepper,  half  an  ounce  of  ground  pepper,  one 
ounce  of  cloves,  cinnamon,  and  mace,  each,  four  nut- 
megs. Turn  good  vinegar  on,  and  let  them  simmer 
two  or  three  hours. 

GREEISr    TOMATOES. 

Cut  up  green  tomatoes  in  slices ;  put  them  in  a  jar, 
and  sprinkle  salt  over  each  layer ;  let  them  stand  twenty- 
four  hours ;  then  wash  the  salt  off,  and  let  them  drain 
in  a  colander.  Prepare  your  vinegar  with  spices,  and 
•sugar,  say  two  pounds  of  sugar  to  one  gallon  of  vine- 
gar. 

KIPE    TOMATOES. 

They  should  not  be  very  ripe ;  wash  them,  and  put 
them  in  a  weak  brine,  where  they  must  remain  twenty- 
four  hours ;  then  rinse  them  off,  and  throw  them  in  cold 
vinegar ;  take  mustard  and  spices,  different  kinds,  put 
them  in  cloths,  and  boil  in  a  little  vinegar,  and  turn  in. 


96  EXCELSIOR   COOK   BOOK 

They  will  not  be  fit  for  use,  quite  as  soon  as  if  the  vine- 
gar was  turned  on  hot,  but  will  keep  longer.  Another 
way :  Take  one  gallon  ripe  tomatoes,  peeled  ;  add  mus- 
tard, cloves,  cinnamon,  red  pepper,  and  a  very  little 
salt ;  grind  the  spices,  and  tie  in  a  cloth.  Cover  the 
whole  with  vinegar,  and  let  it  scald,  but  not  boil. 

MELON    MANG-OES. 

Take  green  melons,  and  pour  over  them  a  boiling 
hot  brine,  strong  enough  to  bear  up  an  egg,  and  let 
them  stand  nine  days ;  then  take  them  out,  and  cut 
them  open  on  one  side,  and  take  out  the  seeds ;  scrape 
them  clean  ;  then  take  small  cucumbers,  green  tomatoes, 
cabbage,  chopped  fine,  with  mustard,  cloves,  cinfiamon, 
and  nutmeg,  also  pepper.  Sew  them  up,  or  tie  them, 
and  put  in  a  jar;  then  pour  hot  spiced  vinegar  over 
them. 

-WALNUTS    AND    BUTTERNUTS. 

Take  butternuts,  or  black  walnuts,  when  you  can 
thrust  a  pin  through  them ;  put  them  in  a  weak  lye, 
and  stir  them  well  to  get  the  roughness  ofi",  or  scald 
them,  and  rub  with  a  flannel  cloth ;  soak  them  in  a 
brine  about  a  week ;  then  pierce  them  through  with  a 
large  needle,  and  lay  them  in  a  jar ;  scald  your  vinegar, 
adding  spices  and  mustard.  They  must  be  covered 
tight,  and  kept  from  the  air. 

CUCUMBERS. 

Gather  the  cucumbers  small,  and  put  them  in  a  weak 
brine ;  let  them  stand  twenty-four  hours ;  then  scald 
your  vinegar,  with  cloves,  cinnamon,  and  pepper,  and 
turn  on.  If  you  wish  them  green,  add  a  little  alum. 
If  you  wish  to  keep  them  any  time,  wash  them,  and  lay 
them  in  a  barrel,  with  a  layer  of  salt,  alternately,  until 
your  barrel  is  full ;  then  put  a  cloth  on  top,  lay  a  board  • 
over,  and  a  stone  to  keep  them  under  the  brine.  They 
will  keep  for  years.  They  must  be  soaked  several  days 
before  using ;  then  turn  on  vinegar,  as  above. 

RADISH    PODS. 

Kadish  pods  may  be  pickled  by  letting  them  stand 
in  salt  and  water  a  few  days,  and  then  pickle  like  cu- 
cumbers. 


AKD   housekeeper's   AID.  9^ 

GKEEN"    BEANS. 

Boil  the  beans  in  a  little  salt  and  water,  until  quite 
tender ;  then  take  them  out,  and  pour  cold  vinegar  on, 
but  scald  the  spic|!S  in  a  little  water  or  vinegar. 

MARTIWOES. 

Soak  in  salt  and  water,  two  or  three  days,  changing 
tlie  water  every  day,  or  they  will  grow  soft ;  then  scald 
them  with  vinegar  and  spices 

CAULIFLOWER. 

Select  the  nicest,  and  cut  off  the  stalk ;  divide  the 
flower  into  six  or  eight  pieces,  and  scald  in  brine ;  let 
them  remain  until  the  next  day ;  then  rinse  and  dry 
them  ;  lay  them  carefully  in  a  jar,  net  to  break  them, 
and  pour  over  them  hot  spiced  vinegar.  Asparagus 
and  broccoli  may  be  pickled  the  same  way. 

CABBAGE. 

Chop  fine  and  lay  in  a  jar  ;  scald  your  vinegar  with 
spices,  and  turn  on ;  scald  it  several  times  and  turn 
on ;  it  will  make  it  more  tender. 

NASTURTIOirS. 
They  must  be  gathered  when  ripe  ;  wash  them,  and 
put  them  in  cold  vinegar;    they  require  no  spicing. 
Capers  are  done  in  the  same  manner. 

ONIONS. 

Take  off  the  outer  skin,  and  soak  them  two  or  three 
days  in  brine  ;  then  scald  them  in  milk  and  water,  and 
drain  them ;  lay  them  in  a  jar  and  pour  cold  vinegar 
on  them;  scald  your  spices,  adding  a  little  alum; 
cover  close. 

PLUMS. 

Take  seven  pounds  of  plums;  three  pounds  of 
sugar ;  one  quart  of  vinegar ;  one  ounce  of  cinnamon ; 
one  ounce  of  cloves ;  place  a  layer  of  plums,  spices, 
and  sugar  ;  scald  your  vinegar  and  pour  over  the  fruit, 
repeating  the  process  three  times,  three  days  in  suc- 
cession ;  then  place  them  in  a  preserving-kettle,  and 
let  them  come  to  a  slow  boil ;  they  are  then  fit  for  use. 
5 


98  EXCELSIOR   COOK   BOOK 

HIGDOM. 

Take  green  melons,  cucumbers,  green  peppers  ;  pare 
the  melons  and  cucumbers ;  put  them  in  a  jar,  adding 
mustard-seed  and  spices ;  cover  with  vinegar ;  in  a  few 
weeks  they  will  be  ready  to  use. 

EAST-INDIA  PICKLE. 

Take  chopped  cabbage,  green  peppers,  radish  pods, 
nasturtions,  walnuts,  butternuts,  cherries,  peaches, 
apricots,  capers,  green  grapes,  and  butter  onions ; 
make  a  brine  that  will  bear  an  egg ;  pour  on  boiling 
hot ;  let  them  stand  a  few  days,  stirring  them  every 
day ;  take  them  out  and  drain  well ;  then  make  vine- 
gar warm  with  spices  added,  and  pour  on,  adding 
English  mustard-seed ;  cover  close  and  it  will  keep  for 
years. 

PICKLED    APPLES. 

Take  three  quarts  of  vinegar,  one  of  water,  three 
pounds  of  sugar,  cinnamon,  cloves,  allspice  to  your 
taste ;  heat  boiling  hot,  and  turn  on  two  or  three 
times ;  peaches,  pears,  and  plums  may  be  pickled  in 
the  same  way. 

GREEN   TOMATO    CATSUP. 

Slice  green  tomatoes,  and  sprinkle  a  little  salt  over 
them  ;  boil  twenty  minutes  in  vinegar  and  water,  with 
a  pound  of  sugar  ;  take  them  out  and  put  a  layer  of 
tomatoes,  then  pepper,  mustard,  horse-radish,  onions, 
and  sj^ices ;  then  pour  on  strong  vinegar  to  cover 
them ;  then  another  layer  alternately,  until  the  jar  is 
fuU. 

RIPE   TOMATO    CATSUP. 

Take  one  gallon  of  ripe  tomatoes ;  wash  clean ;  put 
in  six  red  peppers  broken  up  ;  one  pint  of  strong  vine- 
gar ;  let  them  simmer  three  or  four  hours ;  then  strain 
them  through  a  sieve ;  add  four  spoonfuls  of  pepper, 
four  of  salt,  six  of  ground  mustard,  one  of  cloves, 
the  same  of  allspice ;  add  one  pint  more  vinegar ;  set 
on  the  fire,  and  remain  until  the  right  consistency ;  let 
it  cool,  when  you  can  bottle  it  for  use.  It  should  be 
made  in  tin. 


AND    housekeeper's   AID.  99 

TOMATO    CATSUP. 

Another  way :  Take  ripe  tomatots ;  wash  and  strain 
them ;  then  to  every  quart,  add  two  ounces  of  bUxck 
pepper,  one  of  cinnamon,  one  of  cloves,  a  little  mace 
or  nutmeg,  Cayenne  pepper,  and  salt,  to  suit  the  taste  ; 
boil  slowly  an  hour ;  then  add  half  a  pint  of  the  best 
cider  vinegar ;  after  which,  bottle  it,  and  seal  tightly. 
Another  way :  Take  one  bushel  of  ripe  tomatoes,  and 
boil  until  soft ;  strain  through  a  sieve ;  add  half  a  gal- 
lon of  vinegar,  a  pint  and  a  half  of  salt,  two  ounces 
of  cloves,  two  of  allspice,  two  of  Cayenne  pei)pcr, 
four  table-spoonfuls  of  black  pepper,  four  of  mustard  ; 
mix  together,  and  boil  until  reduced  one  half,  then 
bottle  tight. 

MUSHKOOM    CATSUP. 

Take  the  full-grown  tops  ;  wash  them  clean ;  mash 
them ;  then  sprinkle  salt  over  them,  and  let  them  re- 
main all  night ;  put  in  a  stewpan,  and  let  them  stand 
in  a  hot  oven  ten  or  twelve  hours  ;  then  strain  through 
a  sieve  to  press  out  all  the  juice ;  and  to  every  gallon 
of  liquor  put  half  a  pound  of  salt,  one  ounce  of  cloves, 
one  of  cinnamon,  one  of  black  pepper,  an  ounce  of 
ginger  ;  put  them  over  the  fire  until  reduced  one  half; 
then  turn  in  an  earthen  dish  to  cool,  when  it  can  be 
battled  for  use ;  should  it  not  keep  good,  it  can  be 
heated  over. 

TO   PICKLE    GHERKINS. 
Put  in  a  strong  brine  until  they  are  yellow ;  then  in 
hot  spiced  vinegar,   and  keep  in  a  warm  place  until 
they  turn  green ;  then  pour  off  the  vinegar  and  pour 
on  more. 

BARBERRIES  AND  CURRANTS.' 

Take  bunches  of  currants  Avhen  ripe,  and  put  in 
good  cider  vinegar.  Barberries  should  be  preserved 
by  drying,  as  they  retain  their  color  better  than  any 
other  way ;  when  used,  pour  on  vinegar  scalding  hot, 
and  let  them  remain  until  they  swell  out  to  their  origi- 
nal size. 

PEPPERS. 

Take  ripe  peppers  and  cut  open  with  a  knife ;  take 
out  the   seed,  and  soak  in  brine  eight  or  nine  days, 


100  EXCELSIOR   COOK    BOOK 

changing  the  water  every  day ;  keep  in  a  warm  place ; 
rinse  in  cold  water  and  stuff  with  chopped  cabbage, 
small  green  tomatoes,  or  cucumbers,  nasturiions  or 
any  thing  yoii  like ;  season  with  cloves,  cinnamon,  and 
allspice ;  sew  them  up  and  put  in  cold  vinegar.  The 
large  sweet  pepper  is  best  for  pickling ;  they  are  nice 
made  into  a  sweet  pickle ;  they  may  be  soaked  one 
day  and  then  scalded  in  a  weak  brine,  and  thrown  into 
cold  vinegar,  or  put  in  cold  spiced  vinegar  without 
soaking  or  scalding. 

MARTIKOES. 

Take  them  when  you  can  run  a  pin  in  them ;  put  in 
a  brine  a  week  or  ten  days,  changing  every  day ;  then 
wipe  with  a  course  towel,  and  pour  on  spiced  vinegar 
boiling  hot ;  in  fom*  weeks  they  will  be  ready  for  use. 

PEPPER   VINEGAR. 

Take  a  dozen  ripe  pepper  pods  ;  split  and  boil  them 
in  three  pints  of  vinegar,  until  one  quart  remains,  then 
strain  through  a  sieve  ;  this  is  nice  for  salads,  catsups, 
and  sauces ;  it  also  imparts  a  nice  flavor  to  pickles. 

PICKLED    PEACHES. 

Take  those  that  are  not  very  ripe,  and  pour  on  boil- 
ing water ;  take  out  and  wipe  dry,  in  order  to  get  off 
the  down ;  take  a  gallon  of  weak  vinegar,  thi"^e 
pounds  of  sugar  to  a  peck  of  peaches ;  scald  it,  and 
put  in  three  eggs,  the  whites  only,  and  they  must  be 
well  beaten ;  skim  imtil  clear,  and  every  time  skim- 
ming take  from  the  fire ;  they  should  be  filled  with 
cassia  buds. 

PICKLED    APPLES.   NO.   2. 

Take  three  pounds  of  sugar  to  three  pints  of  weak 
vinegar,  a  stick  or  two  of  cinnamon,  a  few  cloves ;  pare 
sweet  apples,  and  put  them  in  whole,  and  boil  until 
tender.     Pears  may  be  pickled  in  the  same  way. 

PICKLED    PEACHES.    NO.  2. 

Wipe  off  the  down  witli  a  wet  cloth ;  lay  them  in 
jars,  and  pour  over  them  a  boiling  hot  syrup  made  of 
one  quart  of  vinegar,  three  j^ounds  of  sugar,  one  ounce 
of  cinnamon,  and  a  little  allspice ;  four  cloves  should 


AND   HOUSEKEEPER'S   AID.  101 

be  put  in  the  peaches  before  putting  in  the  jars;* let 
them  stand  a  day,  and  pour  off  the  pickle  and  scald, 
and  pour  on  again  ;  repeat  this  next  day,,  and  they  will 
keep  well.  Other  fruit  may  be  pickled  in  the  same 
way. 

PLUMS    AND    CHERillES. 

Put  them  in  jars,  with  a  layer  of  cinnamon  or  cloves 
between  each  layer  of  frnit ;  dissolve  half  a  pound  of 
white  sugar  to  a  pound  of  fruit  in  good  vinegar ;  then 
cover  the  whole  with  it,  and  set  the  jar  in  a  pot  of 
cold  water  ;  set  the  jar  over  the  fire  until  they  begin 
to  boil,  then  take  off. 

FROSTING   CAKE. 

A  quarter  of  a  pound  of  white  powdered  sugar,  to 
one  egg,  or  two  thirds  of  a  tea-cupful ;  whip  the  white 
of  the"eg2:  to  a  stiff  froth,  then  add  the  sugar  by  de- 
grees, until  it  becomes  smooth ;  flavor  with  lemon-juice ; 
spread  it  on  evenly  with  a  knife  while  the  cake  is 
warm,  and  it  will  soon  dry ;  if  the  cake  is  cold  when 
frosted,  put  it  in  a  Avarm  place  till  it  dries.  ^  The  orna- 
mental frosting  on  cake  is  done  with  a  syringe ;  have 
lemon-juice  in  the  frosting  to  make  it  keep  its  place  ; 
then  draw  the  frosting  into  the  syringe,  and  make  your 
fii^ures  as  you  press  it  out ;  it  must  not  be  put  on  till 
the  frosting  is  hardened  ;  sometimes  a  little  starch  may 
be  put  into  frosting,  but  it  will  not  require  so  much 
sugar ;  it  is  a  good  plan  to  sift  a  little  flour  over  the 
cake  before  frosting  it,  as  it  will  spread  more  evenly. 
Before  cutting  an  Iced  cake,  the  icing  should  be  cut 
with  a  penknife,  for  a  large  knife  used  for  cutting  the 
cake  will  break  the  frosting. 

COLORING    FOR    ICING. 

Take  twenty  grains  of  cochineal  powder,  the  same 
of  cream  of  tartar,  and  twenty  grains  of  alum;  add  a 
gill  of  soft  water,  and  scald  it,  but  not  boil ;  strain 
through  a  bit  of  muslin,  and  cork  up  for  use.  A  very 
little  of  this  will  color  icing  a  beautiful  pink ;  then 
use  white  nonpareils.  Rich  cake  that  has  brandy  or 
wine  in,  will  keep  a  long  time.    If  made  without  milk 


102  EXCELSIOR   COOK   BOOK 

or  soda,  it  will  keep  longer.  It  can  be  made  to  taste 
almost  like  fresh  if  it  becomes  stale,  by  putting  it  in  a 
basin,  and  setting  it  in  a  larger  one  with  a  little  water 
in ;  put  in  a  moderate  oven,  and  cover  the  cake  to 
keep  in  the  steam ;  and  Avhen  hot,  take  from  the  oven, 
and  let  it  get  cool  before  cutting  it.     • 

DIRECTIOKS    FOB    MAKING   CAKE. 

The  materials  for  making  cake  must  be  nice  and 
fresh,  or  the  cake  will  not  be  good  ;  white  sugar  should 
always  be  used  for  delicate  cake;  prepare  all  your 
articles  first,  raisins  stoned,  Zante  currants  washed  and 
dried,  citron  cut  in  pieces,  and  almonds  blanched  by 
putting  them  in  hot  water  and  letting  them  remain 
until  the  skins  can  be  rubbed  off;  then  dry,  and  pound 
them  with  a  little  rose-water  or  extract  of  lemon  ; 
in  warm  weather  the  eggs  should  be  cooled  before 
using;  if  frozen  put  in  cold  water  to  take  out  the  frost. 
Frozen  eggs  will  not  make  as  nice  cake.  Butter,  if 
washed  before  using,  will  make  more  delicate  cake. 
The  butter  and  sugar  should  be  stirred  to  a  cream ;  if 
milk  is  used,  stir  in  gradually  with  half  the  flour; 
then  the  yolks  of  the  eggs,  with  some  flour;  the 
whites  next,  with  the  remainder  of  the  flour;  soda 
always  added  last.  Fruit  should  be  rolled  in  flour  to 
prevent  its  sticking  to  the  bottom.  The  eggs  will 
beat  light  sooner  by  beating  them  separate.  Some 
cakes  require  a  hotter  oven  than  others ;  the  cook  will 
soon  learn  this  from  experience.  If  baking  too  fast 
on  top,  put  a  piece  of  paper  over ;  when  about  done, 
try  with  a  knife,  (or  a  splinter  kept  for  this  purpose  is 
best ;)  if  it  does  not  adhere  to  it,  it  is  done. 

PLUM   CAKE. 

Mix  two  quarts  of  flour  with  a  pound  of  sifted  loaf- 
sugar;  three  pounds  of  currants;  half  a  pound  of 
ratsins,  stoned  and  chopped ;  a  quarter  of  an  ounce 
of  mace  and  cloves ;  a  grated  nutmeg ;  the  peel  of  a 
lemon,  cut  fine ;  melt  two  pounds  of  butter  in  a  pint 
and  a  quarter  of  cream,  but  not  hot ;  the  whites  and 
yolks  of  twelve  eggs  beaten  apart,  and  half  a  pint 
good  yeast:  beat  them  all  together  a  full  hour:  put 


AND  housekeeper's  AID.  103 

in  citron  and  lemon ;  then  butter  your  pans,  and  bake. 
Brown  sugar  will  answer  for  tliis  cake,  and  for  all  fruit 
cake. 

FRUIT    CAKE. 

Take  one  pint  of  light  dough,  one  tea-cupful  of 
sugar,  one  of  butter,  three  eggs,  one  nutmeg,  one  tea- 
spoonful  of  saleratus ;  rub  the  butter  and  sugar  to- 
gether, and  the  dough  and  eggs  ;  one  pound  of  raisins ; 
bake  one  hour.  It  is  better  to  stand  a  short  time  and 
rise  before  baking. 

FRENCH  LOAF   CAKE. 

Five  tea-cupfuls  powdered  sugar,  three  of  butter, 
two  of  milk,  six  eggs,  ten  tea-cupfuls  dried  sifted 
flour,  one  wine-glass  of  brandy,  three  nutmegs,  a 
small  tea-spoonful  saleratus,  one  pound  of  raisins,  one 
quarter  pound  of  citron. 

ANOTHER  FRENCH  LOAF  CAKE. 

Three  tea-cups  of  light  bread  dough,  two  cups  of 
white  sugar,  one  cup  of  butter,  three  eggs,  one  nut- 
meg, one  small  tea-spoonful  of  saleratus :  rub  the  but- 
ter and  sugar  together,  and  the  eggs,  and  lastly  the 
dough  and  fruit ;  put  the  fruit  in  a  little  flour,  and  it 
will  not  settle  at  the  bottom.  This  will  make  two 
good-sized  cakes. 

LADY'S    CAKE. 

One  pound  of  flour,  one  pound  of  sugar,  eight 
ounces  of  butter,  one  pound  of  raisins,  one  gill  of 
brandy,  one  gill  of  wine,  one  gill  of  cream,  four  eggs, 
and  one  nutmeg. 

POUND   CAKE. 

Prepare  a  table-spoonful  of  cinnamon,  a  tea-spoonful 
of  mace,  two  nutmegs  grated ;  mix  together  in  a  wane- 
glass  of  brandy,  and  one  of  rose-water ;  sift  a  pound 
of  flour  into  a  broad  pan,  and  put  in  a  pound  of  white 
sugar ;  cut  up  a  pound  of  butter ;  warm  them  by  the 
fire  until  soft;  stir  them  to  a  cream;  then  add  the 
spice  and  liquor,  a  little  at  a  time ;  beat  ten  eggs  to 
a  froth,  and  stir  them  in  by  degrees  into  the  mixture, 
alternately  w^ith  the  flour ;  add  twelve  drops  of  oil  of 


104  EXCELSIOB  COOK  BOOK 

lemon ;  put  in  a  deep  tin  pan  with  straight  sides,  and 
bake  in  a  moderate  oven  from  two  to  three  hours. 

FKUIT    CAKE. 

One  cup  of  sugar,  one  cuj)  chopped  raisins,  one  cup 
sour  milk,  four  table-spoonfuls  of  melted  butter,  one 
tea-spoonful  of  cinnamon,  half  a  tea-spoonful  of  cloves, 
one  of  brandy,  a  little  nutmeg,  and  saleratus. 
GOLD    CAKE. 

One  pound  of  flour,  one  pound  of  sugar,  three  quar- 
ter pounds  of  butter,  yolks  of  fourteen  eggs ;  the  rind 
of  two  lemons,  grated,  also  the  juice;  one  tea-spoon- 
ful of  sal-volatile,  dissolved  in  hot  water ;  just  before 
putting  in  the  oven,  add  the  lemon. 

SILVEB    CAKE. 

One  pound  sugar,  three  quarters  of  flour,  three 
quarters  of  butter,  half  a  pound  of  citron,  .the  whites 
of  fourteen  eggs. 

POUND    CAKE. 

One  pound  of  flour,  one  pound  of  sugar,  one  pound 
of  butter,  eight  eggs,  lemon-juice,  and  a  very  little 
soda. 

A    RICH    ERUIT    CAKE. 

One  pound  of  flour,  browned,  one  pound  of  butter, 
one  pound  of  sugar,  two  pounds  of  seeded  raisins,  two 
pounds  of  currants,  one  pound  of  citron,  one  wine- 
glass of  brandy,  one  of  wine,  nutmeg,  mace,  cinna- 
mon, cloves,  allspice,  ten  eggs,  beaten  to  a  froth,  one 
half  tea-spoonful  of  soda,  dissolved  in  hot  water.  This 
will  make  a  very  large  cake. 

HICKOBY-NUT    CAKE. 

Half  a  teacup  of  sugar,  half  a  tea-cup  of  cream,  one 
tea-cup  of  butter,  two  cups  of  flour,  and  lastly  one  tea- 
cup of  hickory  meats,  and  one  small  tea-sj^oonful  of 
soda. 

SCOTCH    CAKE. 

Two  cups  of  sugar,  a  cup  and  a  half  of  butter,  the 
juice  and  grated  rind  of  a  lemon,  eight  eggs,  flour 
enough  to  make  a  stiff  batter ;  bake  in  pans,  or  drop 
on  tins  two  inches  apart,  with  white  sugar  or  sugar- 


AND   housekeeper's   AID.  105 

ALMOND     CAK3. 

Two  pounds  of  flour,  two  of  butter,  two  of  white 
sugar,  a  quarter  of  an  ounce  of  mace,  the  same  of  nut- 
meg, sixteen  eggs,  two  pounds  of  currants ;  blanch  a 
pound  of  sweet  ahnonds,  and  cut  them  thin ;  half  a 
pound  of  citron,  a  pound  of  candied  orange,  a  pound 
of  candied  lemon,  and  an  even  tea-spoonful  of  soda. 

KISSES. 

Beat  the  whites  of  four  eggs  to  a  stifi"  froth ;  add 
the  juice  of  a  lemon,  half  a  pound  of  powdered  sugar, 
and  beat  with  the  egg ;  spread  on  white  paper,  laid  on 
buttered  tins.  The  oven  should  not  be  too  hot.  When 
the  tops  have  become  hard,  take  them  up.  Have  a  so- 
lution of  gum  arable,  and  dip  the  lower  side  of  the 
cake,  and  join  it  to  another. 

COOKIES. 

One  cup  of  butter,  two  cups  of  sugar,  one  cup  of 
cream,  one  egg,  any  spice  you  like,  one  tea-spoonful 
of  soda ;  mix  soft,  roll  thin,  and  bake  in  a  quick  oven. 

GINGER     COOKIES. 

One  cup  of  butter,  one  of  sugar,  one  of  molasses, 
one  tea-cupful  of  boiling  water,  one  table-spoonful  of 
ginger,  one  of  saleratus  ;  bake  immediately. 

TRIFLES. 

One  egg,  one  table-spoonful  of  white  sugar,  a  salt- 
spoonful  of  salt,  flour  to  make  it  stifi";  cut  in  round 
cakes,  very  small,  and  then  fried  in  lard.  These  look 
very  nice  on  a  table. 

SOFT    GINGERBREAD. 

One  cup  of  molasses,  one  cup  of  cream,  one  egg,  a 
table-spoonful  of  ginger,  a  little  salt,  a  tea-spoonful  of 
soda ;  bake  half  an  hour. 

SODA  CRULLERS. 

Two  tea-spoonfuls  of  cream  of  tartar,  one  tea-cup  of 
sugar,  one  of  milk  or  water,  one  table-spoonful  of  but- 
ter, one  egg,  one  tea-spoonful  of  soda  ;  fry  in  lard. 
5* 


106  EXCELSIOR   COOK  BOOK 

CRXILLERS. 

One  pound  of  flour,  half  a  pound  of  butter,  half  a 
pound  of  sugar,  three  eggs,  nutmeg ;  mix  well,  and 
roll  out  half  an  inch  thick,  and  cut  in  fancy  shapes. 

ANOTHER. 

One  bowl  of  cream,  a  tea-cup  and  a  half  of  sugar, 
three  eggs,  nutmeg,  salt,  soda ;  mix  soft,  and  fry  as 
above. 

DOUGHNUTS. 

One  quart  bowl  of  light  bread-dough,  one  cup  of 
sugar,  one  of  butter,  two  eggs,  one  tea-spoonful  of 
soda;  mix  well,  and  let  it  rise.  When  light,  cut  in 
squares,  and  fry  in  lard. 

SPONGE    GINGERBREAD. 

One  cup  of  molasses,  one  of  sour  milk,  half  a  cup  of 
butter,  two  eggs,  half  a  tea-spoonful  of  saleratus,  one 
large  spoonful  of  ginger,  flour  to  make  it  stifl" ;  put  the 
butter,  molasses,  and  ginger  together,  warm  them,  then 
add  the  rest. 

QUEEN'S    CAKE. 

One  cup  and  a  half  of  butter,  two  of  sugar,  eight 
eggs,  flour  to  make  it  stifi",  and  bake  three  quarters  of 
an  hour. 

•WEDDING    CAKE. 

One  pound  of  flour,  one  of  butter,  one  of  sugar, 
twelve  eggs,  two  pounds  of  raisins,  two  of  currants,  a 
pound  of  citron,  nutmeg,  mace,  lemon ;  butter  two 
pans,  or  one  large  one,  and  put  in  a  layer  of  cake,  and 
one  citron,  sliced  very  thin,  and  so  on,  until  filled,  leav- 
ing room  for  it  to  rise.  The  oven  must  not  be  too  hot, 
as  it  will  require  baking  from  three  to  four  hours.  Let 
it  cool  gradually  in  the  oven. 

GINGER    SNAPS. 

Take  one  pint  of  molasses,  one  tea-cupful  of  butter, 
one  table-spoonful  of  ginger,  one  tea-spoonful  of  sale- 
ratus ;  boil  this  mixture,  and  when  nearly  cold,  add  as 
much  flour  as  is  needed  to  roll  out. 


AND   housekeeper's   AID.  107 

ANOTHER. 

One  pint  of  molasses,  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  sug- 
ar, a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  butter,  the  same  of  lard,  two 
table-spoonfuls  of  ginger,  and  a  quart  of  flour ;  dissolve 
a  tea-spoonful  of  saleratus  in  a  wine-glass  of  milk ;  turn 
into  the  mixture  ;  add  enough  flour  to  roll  it  out  very 
thin,  and  cut  with  a  cutter,  and  bake  in  a  slow  oven. 
These  are  very  nice,  and  will  keep  well. 

COMPOSITION    CAKE. 

Take  three  quarters  of  a  pound  of  butter,  one  pound 
of  sugar,  one  tea-cup  of  milk,  five  eggs,  one  pound  of 
raisins,  one  tea-spoonful  of  soda  and  one  pound  of 
flour. 

MOCK    SPONGE    CAKE. 

Three  eggs,  one  cup  of  sugar,  stirred  until  light ;  then 
add  one  and  a  half  tea-cupfuls  of  flour,  with  a  tea-spoonful 
of  cream  of  tartar ;  lastly,  half  a  tea-spoonful  of  soda. 

PKUIT    CAKE. 

One  pound  of  sugar,  three  quarters  of  a  pound  of  but- 
ter, twelve  eggs,  one  pound  of  flour,  two  pounds  of  rai- 
sins, half  a  pound  of  citron,  four  nutmegs,  a  table-spoon- 
ful of  cinnamon,  a  tea-spoonful  of  cloves,  one  tea-cup  of 
molasses,  one  pint  of  brandy,  a  tea-spoonful  of  soda. 
Fruit  must  be  well  rolled  in  flour. 

COCOA-NUT    CAKES. 

Take  one  grated  cocoa-cut,  an  equal  weight  of  sugar, 
the  whites  of  three  eggs ;  make  them  the  size  of  half  a 
dollar,  and  bake  on  buttered  tins. 

DELICIOUS    DKOP    CAKES. 

One  pint  of  cream,  three  eggs  ;  thicken  with  rye  flour, 
till  a  spoon  will  stand  upright  in  it ;  a  little  salt,  and 
soda  ;  drop  on  a  buttered  pan,  which  must  be  hot  in  the 
oven.     They  may  be  made  thinner,  and  baked  in  cups. 

DELICATE    CAKE. 
Half  a  cup  of  butter,  the  whites  of  four  eggs,  one  cup 
and  a  half  of  sugar,  one  half-cup  of  milk,  two  cups  of 
flour,  one  tea-spoonful  of  cream  of  tartar,  half  a  tea- 
spoonful  of  soda.    Any  spice  you  like. 


108  EXCELSIOR   COOK   BOOK 

GOOD    COOKIES. 

Take  one  pint  of  sweet  milk,  three  tea-cups  of  sugar, 
one  and  a  half  of  butter,  two  tea-spoons  of  cream  of  tar- 
tar, one  tea-spoon  of  soda ;  add  caraway  seed.  Use  as 
little  flour  as  possible  to  roll  out,  or  mix  and  drop  on 
buttered  tins. 

A    RICH    SODA    CAKE. 

Half  a  pound  of  butter,  half  a  pound  of  sugar,  three 
eggs,  one  tea-spoonful  of  carbonate  of  soda,  one  pound 
of  flour,  half  a  pound  of  raisins,  half  a  pound  of  cur- 
rants, nutmeg,  and  candied  lemon-peel.  Add  a  tea- 
spoonful  of  brandy. 

LEMON"    CHEESE    CAKES. 

One  pound  of  loaf  sugar,  broken  small,  six  eggs,  leav- 
ing out  the  whites  of  two,  the  juice  of  three  lemons, 
and  the  rinds  of  two  grated,  and  one  fourth  of  a  pound 
of  butter.  Put  these  ingredients  into  a  pan,  and  boil 
them  slowly,  until  as  thick  as  honey ;  pour  into  a  small 
jar,  and  tie  down  with  brandy  paper.  One  tea-spoon- 
ful is  sufficient  for  a  cheese  cake.  It  will  keep  good 
two  years. 

STAR    GINGER    CAKES. 

One  tea-cup  of  butter,  two  of  molasses,  warm  them 
together ;  add  one  cup  of  sweet  milk,  one  eggy  one  table- 
spoonful  of  ginger,  four  cups  of  flour,  one  tea-spoonful 
of  soda. 

CREAM  OF  TARTAR  DOUGHNUTS. 

Take  two  tea-cupfuls  of  sugar,  half  a  cup  of  butter, 
one  pint  of  sweet  milk,  two  tea-spoonfuls  of  cream  of 
tartar,  nutmeg,  salt,  one  tea-spoonful  of  soda.  Mix  soft, 
and  fry  in  lard. 

CHAMPAGNE    CAKE. 

One  egg,  one  cup  of  sugar,  two  table-spoonfuls  of 
butter,  two  table-spoonfuls  of  sweet  milk,  one  tea-siDOon- 
ful  of  cream  of  tartar,  half  a  tea-sjioonful  of  soda.  Mix 
as  hard  as  cookies. 

JELLY    CAKE. 

Half  a  pound  of  sugar,  six  ounces  of  butter,  eight 
eggs,  one  lemon,  one  pound  of  flour,  one  tea-spoonful 
of  soda.     Bake  in  muffin-rings,  very  thin  ;  then  spread 


AI^B   housekeeper's   AID.  109 

any  kind  of  jelly  between  each  layer  of  cake.  Another : 
Take  one  tea-cup  of  butter,  one  of  sugar,  four  eggs,  two 
cups  of  flour,  a  very  little  saleratus.  Bake  as  above,  or 
if  you  have  not  the  muflin-rings,  bake  oh  tins. 

WONDERS. 

Beat  ten  eggs  as  light  as  possible,  half  a  pound  of 
butter,  half  a  pound  of  sugar,  stirred  to  a  cream,  two 
pounds  of  flour.     Bake  in  a  slow  oven. 

CYMBALS, 

Take  half  a  pound  of  butter,  half  a  pound  of  sugar, 
six  eggs,  two  pounds  of  flour,  nutmeg,  and  rose-water. 

JUMBLES. 

Take  a  cup  and  a  half  of  sugar,  one  cup  of  butter, 
stirred  to  a  cream ;  then  take  six  eggs,  beat  to  a  froth  ; 
add  nutmeg  or  lemon,  and  stir  well ;  then  roll  out,  and 
cut  with  a  cutter,  and  cut  out  the  middle  with  a  canis- 
ter-top, to  leave  a  ring.  Koll  in  white  sugar,  and  bake 
on  tins  in  a  quick  oven. 

FRENCH    TWIST. 

One  quart  of  lukewarm  milk,  one  tea-spoonful  of  salt, 
a  cofiee-cup  of  yeast,  flour  enough  to  let  it  rise ;  rub  in 
one  egg,  and  two  spoonfuls  of  butter ;  knead  in  flour, 
until  stiff"  enough  to  roll  out ;  then  let  it  rise  again,  and 
when  very  light,  roll  it  out,  and  cut  in  strips,  and  braid 
it.     Then  bake  thirty  minutes  on  buttered  tins. 

SUGAR-DROPS. 

Twelve  spoonfuls  of  butter,  twenty-four  of  sugar,  a 

pint  of  flour,  half  a  nutmeg,  three  eggs ;  drop  them  on 

buttered  tins ;  put  sugar-plums  on  the  top.   Bake  twenty 

minutes. 

LEMON    CAKE. 

Take  one  tea-cup  of  butter,  and  three  of  powdered 
sugar,  stir  them  to  a  cream,  stir  mto  them  the  yolks  of 
five  eggs  well  beaten ;  dissolve  a  tea-sjDoonful  of  soda  in 
a  tea-cup  of  milk  ;  add  the  juice  and  grated  peel  of  one 
lemon,  and  the  white  of  five  eggs ;  and  sift  in,  as  light 
as  possible,  four  tea-cups  of  flour.     Bake  in  two  long 


110  EXCELSIOR   COOK   BOO^ 

tins  half  an  hour.  This  cake  is  much  improved  by 
icing.  Two  tea-cupfuls  of  sugar  will  answer,  but  three 
is  better. 

SPOK"GE    CAKE. 

Beat  well  together  the  yolks  of  ten  eggs,  with  a  pound 
of  white  sugar,  then  stir  in,  the  whites  beaten  to  a  stiff 
froth ;  beat  the  whole ;  then  stir  in  gradually  half  a 
pound  of  sifted  flour,  a  little  nutmeg.  Bake  imme- 
diately.— Another  :  Take  three  eggs,  and  one  cup  of 
sugar,  beat  to  a  froth  ;  add  one  cup  of  flour,  one  small 
tea-spoonful  of  cream  of  tartar,  put  in  a  table-spoonful 
of  sweet  cream,  half  a  tea-spoonful  of  soda.  Bake  im- 
mediately. 

QUEEN    CAKE. 

Take  a  pound  of  sifted  flour,  one  of  sugar,  and  three 
quarters  of  butter ;  rub  the  butter  and  sugar  to  a  cream ; 
add  the  beaten  yolks  of  five  eggs,  one  gill  of  brandy,  one 
of  wine,  and  one  of  cream,  with  part  of  the  flour,  and  a 
pound  of  stoned  raisins,  and  spice  to  the  taste ;  add  the 
whites  of  the  eggs,  beaten  to  a  stiff  froth,  with  the  re- 
mainder of  the  flour. 

SODA    CAKE. 

Half  a  cup  of  butter,  two  cups  of  sugar,  four  cups  of 
flour,  three  eggs,  one  tea-spoonful  of  soda,  dissolved  in 
a  cup  of  milk,  two  spoonfuls  of  cream  of  tartar,  mixed 
in  the  cake. 

SILVER    CAKE. 

Haifa  cup  of  butter,  one  and  a  half  of  sugar,  half  a  cup 
of  sweet  milk,  the  whites  of  five  eggs,  one  tea-spoonful 
of  cream  of  tartar,  one  half  tea-spoonful  of  soda. 

CUP    CAKE. 

One  coffee-cup  of  butter,  two  cuj3s  of  sugar,  beaten 
to  a  cream,  one  cup  of  sour  cream,  four  cups  of  flour. 
Beat  five  eggs  as  light  as  possible,  a  grated  nutmeg, 
and  one  tea-spoonful  of  soda.  This  cake  is  nice  baked 
on  small  tins. 

EXCELLENT    FRUIT    CAKE. 

One  cup  of  butter,  one  of  brown  sugar,  one  of  molas- 
ses, one  of  sweet  milk,  three  of  flour,  and  four  eggs, 


AND  HOUSEKEEPER'S  AID.  Ill 

two  pounds  of  raisins  chopped  fine,  one  nutmeg,  one 
tea-spoonful  of  cream  of  tartar,  and  half  a  tea-spoonful 
of  soda. 

ANOTHER. 

One  pound  of  butter,  one  pound  of  sugar,  one  pound 
of  flour,  ten  eggs,  one  glass  of  brandy,  two  pounds  of 
currants,  two  of  raisins,  one  and  a  half  of  citron,  one 
ounce  of  cloves,  one  of  mace,  half  an  ounce  of  cinna- 
mon, and  nutmeg,  a  tea-spoonful  of  soda. 

CTJP    CAKE. 

Three  cups  of  sugar,  two  cups  of  butter,  one  cup  of 
cream,  six  eggs,  five  of  flour,  one  nutmeg,  one  cup  of 
currants,  one  cup  of  raisins,  one  tea-spoonful  of  salera- 
tus  or  soda.     This  cake  can  be  made  of  brown  sugar. 

POKK    CAKE. 

One  pound  of  salt  pork,  chopped,  pour  on  a  pint  of 
boiling  water,  one  cup  of  molasses,  two  cups  of  sugar, 
three  eggs,  cinnamon,  cloves,  nutmeg,  one  pound  of 
chopped  raisins,  flour  to  make  a  stifl"  batter,  two  tea- 
spoonfuls  of  soda.     This  will  make  three  loaves. 

SODA    CAKE. 

One  egg^  and  one  tea-cupful  of  white  sugar,  one  tea- 
spoonful  of  soda,  dissolved  in  a  tea-cup  of  milk,  two 
and  a  half  table-spoonfuls  of  butter,  one  pint  of  flour, 
two  tea-spoonfuls  of  cream  of  tartar,  extract  of  lemon, 
to  suit  the  taste. 

CREAM    CAKE. 

Beat  five  eggs  light  as  possible ;  take  three  cups  of 
sugar,  three  of  sour  cream,  one  tea-spoonful  of  soda, 
and  one  of  salt,  flour  enough  to  make  a  thick  batter, 
nutmeg  to  suit  the  taste. 

STRAWBERRY   OR  RASPBERRY   CAKE. 

Mix  a  pint  of  sour  milk  with  a  cup  of  butter,  or  a 
cup  of  sour  cream ;  then  stir  in  flour  to  make  a  thick 
batter ;  add  a  tea-spoonful  of  salt,  one  of  soda,  dissolved 
in  a  third  of  a  cup  of  water.  Stir  well,  then  add  more 
flour  until  stiff  enough  to  roll  out.    Roll  two  thirds  of 


112  EXCELSIOR  COOK   BOOK 

an  inch  in  thickness  and  bake  quick.  Split  oi^en  when 
done,  and  put  in  a  layer  of  strawberries  or  rasj^berries ; 
sprinkle  white  sugar;  put  on  the  cover  and  eat  while 
hot.     If  very  thick,  cut  twice  in  two  and  sj^read  again. 

A   CHEAP    CAKE. 

Take  one  cup  of  butter,  two  of  sugar,  one  of  butter- 
milk, four  eggs,  half  a  tea-spoonful  of  soda  and  nutmeg. 
Add  one  pound  of  fruit,  and  three  cups  of  flour. 

SOFT    CAKE    IK-    LITTLE    TIWS. 

One  cup  and  a  half  of  butter,  one  and  a  half  of  sugar, 
five  eggs,  nutmeg,  two  cups  of  flour. 

WEST-POIN-T   CAKE. 

Take  one  half-pound  butter,  one  pound  sugar,  five 
eggs,  one  pound  of  flour,  one  cup  of  cream,  one  tea- 
spoonful  of  soda. 

HONEY   CAKE, 

Take  one  cup  of  butter,  two  cups  of  honey,  a  large 
spoonful  of  ginger,  nutmeg,  or  any  other  seasoning  you 
like,  and  a  little  flour,  a  tea-spoonful  of  saleratus  dis- 
solved in  a  cup  of  water ;  then  add  flour  enough  to 
roll  out  and  bake  as  gingerbread. 

CRULLERS. 

Take  a  tea-spoonful  of  soda,  half  a  cup  of  milk, 
strain  on  to  half  a  pint  of  flour,  four  table-spoonfuls  of 
melted  butter  or  lard,  six  of  sugar  that  has  been  rolled 
smooth,  four  beaten  eggs,  and  nutmeg.  Stir  well  to- 
gether, then  add  the  flour  and  milk  ;  and  flour  enough 
to  roll  out.  Roll  an  inch  in  thickness,  cut  in  strips  not 
over  an  inch  in  width,  with  a  jagging-iron.  Twist  in 
any  fanciful  form  you  please.  Heat  a  pound  of  lard  in 
a  pot.  If  you  wish  to  have  your  crullers  very  rich, 
omit  the  saleratus  and  milk. 

FRENCH   CAKE. 

Take  three  quarters  of  a  pound  of  butter,  one  pound 
of  white  sugar,  one  pound  and  a  half  of  flour,  twelve 
eggs,  a  gill  each  of  wine,  milk,  and  brandy,  a  pound  of 
seeded  raisins  or  Zante  currants,  a  quarter  of  a  pound 


AND   HOUSEKEEPER'S   AID.  113 

of  citron,  the  same  of  almonds,  blanched  and  pounded 
fine ;  spice  to  the  taste.  Stir  the  butter  and  sugar  to 
a  cream,  then  stir  in  the  eggs,  flour,  and  spice.  ^  Mix 
the  wine,  brandy,  and  milk,  and  add  the  other  ingre- 
dients. Stir  well  together ;  then  add  the  fruit.  When 
well  mixed,  put  in  buttered  tins  and  bake. 

"WHISTLES. 

Take  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  butter,  half  a  pound  of 
sugar,  six  eggs.  Stir  the  butter  and  sugar  to  a  cream, 
then  add  the  eggs  previously  beaten,  and  flour  to  make 
a  thick  batter;  flavor  with  rose-water,  if  you  like. 
Drop  the  mixture  on  buttered  paper  with  a  large 
spoon,  several'  inches  apart,  and  spread  thin.  Bake 
them  of  a  light  brown  on  a  board.  They  will  bake  in 
five  minutes.  Lay  on  a  moulding-board  that  has  white 
sugar  sprinkled  on  it ;  roll  them  on  a  stick  while  warm. 
When  cold,  fill  with  any  kind  of  jelly. 

JELLY   CAKE. 

Take  six  ounces  of  butter,  eight  of  white  sugar, 
eight  eggs,  the  juice  and  grated  rind  of  one  lemon, 
one  pound  of  flour. 

COCOA-ITUT    CAKE. 

Take  one  cup  of  butter,  two  of  white  sugar,  half  a 
tea-spoonful  of  soda  dissolved  in  a  tea-cupful  of  milk,  the 
white  part  of  one  cocoa-nut  grated,  half  a  nutmeg ; 
add  the  whites  of  the  eggs  with  half  a  pint  of  sifted 
flour.     Bake  as  soon  as  the  flour  and  whites  are  put  in. 

WAFEKS. 

Melt  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  butter,  mix  with  half 
a  pint  of  milk,  a  tea-spoonful  of  salt,  a  Avine-glass  of 
wine,  three  beaten  eggs,  and  flour  to  enable  you  to  roll 
out  easily.  Roll  very  thin ;  cut  in  small,  round  cakes, 
and  bake  in  a  moderate  oven.  Frost  while  Avarm,  and 
sprinkle  sugar-sand  or  comfits  over  it  as  soon  as  frosted. 
SAVOY   CAKES. 

Beat  the  yolks  of  eight  eggs  to  a  froth ;  mix  with 
them  a  pound  of  white  sugar,  the  grated  rind  of  a 
lemon,  and  half  its  juice.     Beat  the  whites  of  the  eggs 


114  EXCELSIOK  COOK  BOOK 

and  stir  into  the  sugar  and  yolks ;  tlien  add  a  pound 
of  flour  and  two  spoonfuls  of  coriander  seed.  Drop  on 
buttered  baking-plates,  with  a  large  spoon,  several 
inches  apart ;  sift  sugar  over  them  and  bake  in  a  quick 
oven. 

VANITIES. 

Beat  two  eggs,  and  add  sufficient  flour  to  make  the 
right  consistency  with  a  little  salt.  Roll  very  thin  and 
fry  in  hot  lard.  They  may  be  cut  in  any  shape  you 
like  ;  roll  in  white  sugar  as  soon  as  they  are  taken  out. 
If  you  like,  fill  with  jelly  or  sweetmeats. 

ANOTHER  COMPOSITION   CAKE. 

Take  one  pound  and  a  quarter  of  sugar,  three  quar- 
ters of  butter,  four  eggs,  one  pint  of  milk,  one  pound 
and  three  quarters  of  flour,  one  and  a  half  pounds  of 
currants,  one  tea-spoonful  of  soda,  and  one  nutmeg. 

ANOTHER   COCOA-NUT    CAKE. 

Take  one  nut  grated,  one  and  a  half  pounds  butter, 
one  pound  of  sugar,  six  eggs,  and  three  quarters  of  a 
pound  of  flour.     Bake  in  a  moderate  oven. 

RAILROAD    CAKE. 

Take  two  cups  of  sugar,  six  eggs,  beaten  very  light, 
two  tea-spoonfuls  of  cream  of  tartar,  one  lemon ;  grate 
the  peel  and  use  the  juice ;  four  table-spoonfuls  of  milk, 
two  pounds  of  flour,  one  tea-spoonful  of  soda. 

ANOTHER  MODE   OP   MAKING  SNAPS. 

One  pint  of  molasses,  one  cup  of  sugar,  one  egg,  one 
table-spoonful  of  ginger,  one  of  saleratus,  one  of  vine- 
gar, one  cup  of  butter,  seven  cups  of  flour.  Roll  thin 
and  bake  quick. 

HARD    GINGERBREAD. 

Take  one  and  a  half  cups  of  sugar,  half  a  cup  of  but- 
ter, half  a  cup  of  sweet  milk,  one  egg,  a  spoonful  of 
ginger,  one  tea-spoonful  of  cream  of  tartar,  half  a  tea- 
spoonful  of  soda. 

IMPERIAL   GINGERBREAD. 

Rub  half  a  pound  of  butter  into  three  quarters  of  a 
pound  of  flour ;  mix  six  ounces  of  treacle  with  a  pint 


AND   housekeeper's  AID.  "  115 

of  cream,  carefully,  lest  it  should  turn  the  cream ;  mix 
in  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  double-refined  sugar,  half 
an  ounce  of  ginger,  and  one  ounce  of  caraway  seed ; 
stir  the  whole  well  together  into  a  paste ;  cut  it  into 
shapes,  and  stick  out  candied  orange  or  lemon-peel  on 
the  top. 

ANOTHER    SODA    CAKE. 

Take  one  quarter  of  a  pound  of  butter,  half  a  pound 
of  sugar,  half  a  pound  of  flour,  two  eggs,  three  quarters 
of  a  pound  of  currants,  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  candied 
lemon-peel,  half  a  tea-spoonful  of  soda  ;  pour  in  milk  to 
make  the  right  consistency  to  bake. 

AW  EXCEIiLEWT   QINGEBBREAD. 

Take  one  pint  of  molasses,  one  tea-cupful  of  butter, 
one  tea-spoonful  of  soda  dissolved  in  half  a  tea-cupful 
of  hot  water,  half  a  tea-spoonful  of  alum  dissolved  in 
water,  two  table-spoonfuls  of  ginger.  The  whole  mixed 
with  flour  enough  to  roll  out  and  cut  in  cards.  Bake 
in  a  quick  oven. 

A  PLAIN   SPONGE   CAKE. 

Take  two  eggs  well  beaten,  one  cup  of  sugar,  half 
a  cup  of  milk,  one  tea-spoonful  of  cream  of  tartar,  two 
cups  of  flour,  half  a  tea-spoonful  of  soda.  Flavor  with 
nutmeo;  or  rose-water. 

GINGER   CRACKERS. 

Take  one  pint  of  molasses,  two  cups  of  butter,  one 
and  a  half  of  sugar,  a  table-spoonful  of  ginger,  a  tea- 
spoonful  of  soda,  flour  enough  to  roll  out ;  stir  the  but- 
ter and  sugar  together ;  boil  the  molasses  and  pour  it 
into  the  pan,  and  stir  until  the  butter  and  sugar  are 
melted ;  then  put  in  a  few  handfuls  of  flour,  and  add 
the  soda ;  stir  well,  then  work  in  the  flour,  and  roll 
very  thin ;  bake  a  few  minutes. 

LUNCHEON   CAKE. 

Take  half  a  pound  of  butter,  and  rub  into  a  pound 
of  flour,  with  two  ounces  of  currants,  the  same  of  car- 
away seed,  half  a  pound  of  moist  sugar  ;  beat  up  three 
eggs,  one  ounce  of  lemon-peel  candied  and  cut  thin. 


116  EXCELSIOK   COOK   BOOK 

Boil  half  a  pint  of  milk,  to  which  add,  while  boiling,  a 
tea- spoonful  of  soda.  Stir  well  and  bake  immediately. 
Bake  half  an  hour. 

A  POUND    CAKE   MEASUBED 

Take  one  cup  of  butter,  two  of  sugar,  four  eggs,  and 
three  cups  of  flour  ;  bake  in  little  tins  twenty  minutes. 

SPOWGE    CAKE. 

Take  five  eggs,  one  tumbler  of  sugar,  beat  light  with 
the  yolks,  one  tumbler  of  flour ;  then  add  the  whites  of 
the  eggs,  after  beating  light  as  possible,  and  bake  in 
a  slow  oven. 

SILVER   CAKE.    NO.'  2. 

Take  two  cups  of  nice  white  sugar,  half  a  cup  of 
butter ;  stir  to  a  cream ;  then  add  the  whites  of  eight  eggs 
well  beaten,  two  cups  and  a  half  of  flour,  dissolve  half 
a  tea-spoonful  of  soda  in  three  quarters  of  a  cup  of  milk 
flavor  with  rose-water  or  vanilla ;  stir  well  together 
then  add  a  tea-spoonful  of  cream  of  tartar  and  nutmeg 
pour  into  a  square  baking-pan,  lined  with  white  paper 
bake  in  a  quick  oven ;  if  baking  too  fast  on  the  top, 
cover  with  a  paper. 

A   LOAF    CAKE  ^WITHOUT   EGGS. 

Take  two  pounds  of  butter  melted,  two  pounds  of 
sugar  stirred  together  thoroughly ;  mix  half  of  it  with 
two  pounds  of  flour,  together  with  a  tumblerful  of 
home-made  yeast  and  one  quart  of  warm  milk.  Beat 
well  together,  and  let  it  stand  in  a  warm  place  until 
light ;  say  from  four  to  six  hours.  Then  add  the  re- 
mainder of  the  butter  and  sugar,  also  two  pounds  of 
raisins  and  spice.  Let  it  stand  over  night  in  pans  and 
bake  an  hour  in  a  slow  oven. 

QUEEN'S    CAKE— VERY  RICH. 

Take  one  pound  of  white  sugar,  three  quarters  of 
butter,  one  pound  of  flour,  a  pound  of  seeded  raising 
half  a  pound  of  Zante  currants,  a  quarter  of  a  pound 
of  citron,  a  wine-glass  of  wine,  one  of  brandy,  and  one 
of  milk,   six   eggs   and  a  tea-spoonful  of  soda ;  after 


AND  housekeeper's   AID.  117 

stirring  the  butter  and  sugar,  put  in  the  eggs ;  then  add 
the  brandy  and  winQ,  then  the  tiour  and  spice  ;  dissolve 
the  soda  in  the  milk,  and  strain  in ;  stir  well  together ; 
then  add  the  fruit,  sprinkled  with  flour  ;  bake  on 
square  buttered  tins  from  an  hour  to  an  hour  and  thirty 
minutes.     This  cake  will  keep  a  long  time. 

CUP    CAKE. 

Take  one  cup  of  butter,  two  of  sugar,  beat  until 
light ;  add  one  cup  of  water  ;  have  measured  five  cups 
of  flour,  and  add  half;  stir  well  with  one  tea-spoonful 
of  cream  of  tartar ;  beat  three  eggs  light ;  pour  in,  and 
lastly,  half  a  tea-spoonful  of  soda,  and  nutmeg  to  the 
taste. 

GOLD    CAKE. 

Take  the  yolks  of  eight  eggs,  and  beat  light ;  mix 
with  one  cup  of  sugar,  and  three  quarters  of  a  cup 
of  butter,  having  previously  stirred  to  a  cream ;  add 
half  a  tea-spoonful  of  soda  dissolved  in  half  a  cup  of 
sweet  milk,  with  two  cups  of  flour;  when  well  mixed, 
stir  in  a  tea-spoonful  of  cream  of  tartar ;  flavor  with 
lemon  or  nutmeg  ;  bake  in  a  square  tin. 

JELLY    CAKE. 

Three  quarters  of  a  cup  of  butter,  two  cups  of  sugar, 
five  cups  of  flour,  one  tea-spoonful  of  soda  dissolved 
in  a  cup  of  milk,  three  eggs  ;  stir  the  sugar  and  butter 
to  a  cream,  then  beat  the  eggs  to  a  froth  and  add  with 
part  of  the  flour  ;  strain  the  milk  with  the  soda  into  the 
mixture ;  stir  the  whole  well  together ;  then  add  two 
tea-spoonfuls  of  cream  of  tartar ;  stir  several  minutes 
and  pour  into  buttered  tins ;  when  cool  spread  on  mar- 
malade or  jelly  on  one  side,  and  lay  on  more  cake,  un- 
til you  have  three  or  four  together.  Another  method 
is,  to  spread  each  one  with  jelly  while  warm,  and  roll 
up  separately ;  put  on  a  plate  until  cold,  then  cut  in 
slices. 

0]SrE-T\\rO-THREE-FOUR    CAKE. 

Take  one  cup  of  butter,  two  of  sugar,  three  of  flour, 
and  four  well-beaten  eggs  ;  a  pint  of  hickory-nut  meats 
are  an  improvement  to  this  cake ;  a  third  of  a  tea- 


118  EXCELSIOR   COOK   BOOK 

spoonful  of  cream  of  tartar  with  one  spoonful  of  milk, 
might  be  added,  as  it  will  insure  a  light  cake  ;  then  it 
will  require  half  as  much  soda  to  be  stirred  in  lastly. 

SODA    CAKE. 

Take  a  piece  of  butter  the  size  of  an  egg,  one  cup  of 
sugar,  two  tea-spoonfuls  of  cream  of  tartar  dissolved  in 
a  cup  of  sweet  milk ;  beat  one  egg  light,  and  add  two 
cups  of  flour ;  lastly  a  tea-spoonful  of  soda. 

HARD    COOKIES. 

One  pound  of  sugar,  half  a  pound  of  butter,  three 
and  a  half  pounds  of  flour,  and  water  sufficient  to  roll 
out ;  mould  a  long  time,  then  set  it  away  an  hour  or  two, 
and  repeat  the  moulding ;  add  caraway  seed  if  you 
like,  and  cut  in  little  cakes  after  rolling  it  thin ;  stamp 
each  cake  with  a  wooden  print. 

SUGAR    GINGERBREAD. 

One  tea-cupful  of  butter,  two  of  sugar,  two  eggs, 
one  table-spoonful  of  ginger,  stir  in  two  tea-cupfuls  of 
flour,  and  then  add  a  tea-spoonful  of  soda  dissolved  in 
half  a  tea-cupful  of  warm  water  ;  add  flour  sufficient  to 
roll  out ;  bake  in  a  quick  oven ;  roll  thin. 

LINCOLN   CAKE. 

One  tea-cup  of  sugar,  half  a  cup  of  butter ;  stir  to  a 
cream,  then  add  half  a  cup  of  milk  and  one  cupful  of 
flour;  stir  well,  and  add  a  grated  lemon,  and  two 
eggs  beat  to  a  froth,  then  add  another  cup  of  flour,  and 
lastly,  add  half  a  tea-spoonful  of  soda. 

A   POUND    CAKE    MEASURED. 

Take  a  tea-cup  ful  of  sugar,  nearly  one  cup  of  butter ; 
stir  to  a  cream,  then  add  half  a  tea-spoonful  of  cream 
of  tartar,  with  a  table-spoonful  of  milk ;  beat  three 
eggs  as  light  as  possible,  and  add  with  two  tea-cupfuls 
of  flour  ;  lastly,  half  as  much  soda  as  you  had  of 
cream  of  tartar. 

UNION    CAKE. 

Take  a  piece  of  butter  the  size  of  a  hen's  egg,  one 
cup  of  sugar,  one  cup  of  sweet  milk,  two  es:.g:8  beat 


AND   HOUSEKEEPDk's   AID.  119 

to  a  froth,  tAVO  tea-spoonfuls  of  cream  of  tartar ;  mix 
well  topjether ;  then  stir  in  two  and  a  half  tea-cnpfuls 
of  sifted  flour  ;  lastly  a  tea-spoonful  of  soda  ;  stir  well, 
and  bake  in  a  moderate  oven,  and  you  will  have  a  cheap 
and  excellent  cake.  If  you  like,  you  can  use  a  cup  of 
sour  milk  instead  of  sweet ;  in  that  case  no  cream  of 
tartar  will  be  required.     Add  spice  if  you  like. 

BER^WICK    SPONGE    CAKE. 

Beat  three  eggs  two  minutes ;  add  a  cup  and  a  half 
of  sugar,  then  beat  five  minutes  ;  add  one  cup  of  flour, 
one  tea-spoonful  of  cream  of  tartar,  beat  two  minutes  ; 
add  a  cup  of  cold  water,  half  a  tea-spoonful  of  soda, 
beat  one  minute ;  a  cup  of  flour,  a  little  salt,  rose,  or 
lemon;  then  bake. 

COOKIES    THAT    "WILL    KEEP    TWO    MONTHS. 

One  pint  of  sour  cream,  one  pint  of  white  sugar,  but- 
ter the  size  of  an  egg,  one  tea-spoonful  of  soda,  two 
table-spoonfuls  of  caraway  seed. 

WHIGS. 

Take  six  ounces  of  butter,  eight  of  sugar  stirred  to 

a  cream,  beat  two  eggs,  and  add  a  tea-spoonful  of  salt, 

the  same  of  cinnamon,  two  pounds  of  flour,  a  small  cup 

of  yeast  and  milk  to  make  a  stiff"  batter ;  when  light, 

bake  in   small   cups   well  buttered.     They  are   good 

either  hot  or  cold. 

BUSK. 

One  pint  of  warm  milk,  half  a  pint  of  yeast  and 
flour  to  make  a  thick  batter ;  when  light,  add  half  a 
pound  of  butter,  three  quarters  of  a  pound  of  sugar ; 
add  spice  and  flour  to  make  as  stiflf  as  biscuit ;  let 
them  rise,  then  mould  in  cakes  the  size  of  biscuits  ;  put 
on  buttered  tins  and  bake  after  rising,  say  about  thirty 
minutes ;  bake  quick ;  mix  milk  with  a  large  spoonful 
of  egg,  and  rub  on  the  top  as  soon  as  baked. 

SODA   JUMBLES. 
One  cup  and  a  half  of  butter,  three  of  sugar  stirred 
to  a  cream,  a  tea-spoonful  of  soda  dissolved  in  a^  tea^ 
cupful  of  water,  five  eggs  beat  very  light,  and  stirred 


120  EXCELSIOR  COOK   BOOK 

into  the  sugar  and  cream ;  then  stir  in  six  cups  of  sifted 
flour  with  one  nutmeg  grated,  and  two  tea-spoonfuls  of 
cream  of  tartar ;  when  well  stirred,  add  the  water  and 
saleratus  ;  drop  on  buttered  tins  and  bake. 

CREAM    JELLY    CAKE. 

Stir  into  two  cups  of  sweet  cream  flour  enough  to 
make  a  batter,  add  four  well-beaten  eggs,  one  cup  of 
sugar,  two  spoonfuls  of  cream  of  tartar,  and  spice  to 
the  taste  ;  when  well  mixed,  add  a  tea-spoonful  of  soda 
dissolved  in  half  a  wine-glass  of  milk ;  pour  into  but- 
tered tins,  not  over  one  third  of  an  inch  in  thickness, 
and  bake  ;  when  baked,  put  on  jelly  between  each  cake. 

HARD    GINGERBREAD. 

One  tea-cupful  of  shortening,  one  pint  of  molasses,  a 
spoonful  of  ginger,  two  tea-spoonfuls  of  soda  dissolved 
in  a  cup  of  water ;  roll  out  and  bake. 

SODA    CAKE. 

Stir  two  cups  of  white  sugar,  and  one  of  butter  to  a 
cream,  add  six  well-beaten  eggs,  four  cuj)S  of  flour,  two 
spoonfuls  of  cream  of  tartar,  and  a  grated  nutmeg ; 
dissolve  a  tea-spoonful  of  soda  in  a  cup  of  milk  and  stir 
in  lastly. 

GINGERBREAD    NUTS. 

One  pound  and  a  quarter  of  flour,  half  a  pound  of 
butter,  rub  well  together  with  one  ounce  of  ginger, 
cinnamon,  cloves,  and  allspice ;  wet  the  whole  with  one 
pint  of  molasses,  and  stir  well ;  then  add  half  a  tea- 
spoonful  of  soda  dissolved ;  take  out  a  handful  at  a 
time  and  knead  in  little  cakes,  then  put  all  together  and 
knead  a  long  time ;  cut  the  lump  in  half,  and  roll  in 
thin  sheets,  and  cut  in  little  cakes ;  lay  on  buttered 
tins ;  bake  in  a  moderate  oven. 

COFFEE    CAKE. 

Take  a  tea-cup  of  clear  strong  coffee,  as  made  for  the 
table,  one  cup  of  butter,  one  of  sugar,  one  of  molasses, 
or  a  little  more  than  one,  one  egg,  four  of  flour,  one 
nutmeg,  a  tea-spoonful  of  cmnamon,  one  pound  of 


AND    housekeeper's   AID.  121 

raisins ;  mix  your  butter,  sugar,  spices,  molasses,  then 
add  a  tea-spoonful  of  cream  of  tartar,  one  half  tea- 
spoonful  of  soda  dissolved  and  put  in  last. 

ELMSDALE    CAKE. 

Take  three  cups  of  butter,  six  cups  of  sugar ;  rub 
well  together,  then  add  two  cups  of  buttermilk,  seven 
eggs,  ten  cups  of  flour,  one  nutmeg,  raisins,  and  one 
tea-spoonful  of  saleratus. 

MOUNTAIN    CAKE. 

Take  two  cups  of  flour,  one  cup  and  a  half  of  sugar, 
four  table-spoonfuls  of  butter ;  beat  light  the  whites 
of  three  eggs ;  one  tea-spoonful  of  cream  of  tartar, 
one  cup  of  milk,  half  a  tea-spoonful  of  soda;  stir  the 
butter  and  sugar  together,  add  the  milk  and  soda,  and 
put  the  eggs  in  last. 

JAM    CAKE. 

Take  one  cup  of  sugar,  half  a  cup  of  butter,  the 
same  of  milk,  two  tea-spoonfuls  of  cream  of  tartar,  one 
of  soda,  two  eggs,  two  cups  of  flour ;  bake  in  small 
tins ;  when  done,  cut  out  a  piece ;  fill  with  jam  or 
jelly;  replace  the  piece  and  ice  the  cakes. 

CIDEB    CAKE. 

Take  one  cup  of  butter,  two  of  sugar,  one  of  cider, 
two  eggs,  three  cups  of  flour,  one  tea-spoonful  of  soda. 

PILGRIM'S    LOAF    CAKE. 

Two  spoonfuls  of  yeast,  two  cups  of  warm  milk, 
four  cups  of  sugar,  half  a  cup  of  butter,  one  egg,  one 
pound  of  raisins,  one  fourth  of  a  pound  of  citron,  flour 
enough  to  make  a  stiff  dough ;  put  in  the  yeast,  butter, 
milk,  and  let  it  rise ;  then  add  the  other  ingredients,  * 
and  let  it  rise  again. 

CORN-STARCH    CAKE. 

One  tea-cup  of  sugar,  half  a  cup  of  milk,  half  a  cup 
of  corn-starch,  one  cup  of  flour,  whites  of  three  eggs ; 
put  in  with  the  flour  and  starch,  half  a  tea-spoonful  of 
cream  of  tartar,  half  as  much  soda,  also  half  cup  of 
butter ;  when  done,  ice  it. 


122  EXCELSIOR   COOK   BOOK 

PASTRY  AND  PIES. 

For  plain  pastiy,  allow  half  a  pound  of  shortening 
to  a  pound  of  flour,  and  for  rich  pastry,  allow  three 
quarters  of  a  pound.  Lard  makes  the  most  delicate 
looking  crust ;  but  if  some  butter  is  used,  the  crust  will 
be  nicer.  Rub  half  the  shortening  with  two  thirds  of 
the  flour.  When  the  flour  and  shortening  are  well 
rubbed  together,  add  water  sufficient  to  enable  you  to 
roll  out.  If  rolled  a  number  of  times,  it  will  be  more 
flaky.  When  rolled  out,  put  on  more  of  the  shorten- 
ing with  the  flour;  and  always  roll  from  you.  It 
should  be  made  as  quick  and  as  cold  as  possible.  In 
cold  weather  it  should  be  warmed  a  little,  but  not 
melted,  or  it  will  not  be  flaky.  A  plain,  tender  crust 
may  be  made  of  sour  milk  with  soda ;  but  it  will  not 
require  so  much  shortening.  Sweet  cream  and  soda  is 
still  nicer.  Good  potatoes  boiled  in  salted  water  and 
strained,  add  to  the  same  quantity  of  flour,  wet  with 
sour  milk,  and  soda,  makes  a  very  tender  crust,  and 
requires  no  shortening.  Light  bread  dough,  with  a 
little  butter  added,  and  rolled  thin,  makes  a  nice  crust 
for  meat  pies,  and  for  the  upper  crust  of  fruit  pies,  to 
be  made  without  bottom  crusts. 

DIRECTIOlSrS   FOR   MAKING   VERY   NICE    PASTE. 

Take  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  shortening  and  rub 
into  the  flour,  wet  with  cold  water  just  enough  to  roll 
out.  Then  take  the  remainder  and  cut  in  very  thin 
slices.  Sprinkle  a  thick  layer  of  flour  on  the  mould- 
ing-board ;  lay  on  the  flour  the  slices  of  shortening. 
Sprinkle  on  more  flour  and  roll  out  in  thin  sheets  ;  then 
roll  out  the  paste  and  cover  with  a  sheet  of  this. 
Sprinkle  on  more  flour  and  fold  up ;  then  roll  out  again, 
and  repeat  until  the  shortening  is  used  up. 

PUFF   PASTE. 

Dissolve  a  little  sal-volatile  in  cold  water,  then  take 
one  pound  and  a  quarter  of  flour,  one  pound  of  butter  ; 
rub  one  third  of  the  butter  with  two  thirds  of  the 
flour,  and  add  the  sal-volatile  with  a  little  salt.  Mois- 
ten with  water  to  a  nice  paste ;  then  cut  the  butter  in 


AND   nOUSEKEEPER^S   AID.  123 

slices  as  directed  above.  Roll  out  lightly  about  one 
third  of  an  inch  in  thickness,  and  use  for  pufis  or  rim 
and  upper  crust  to  pies.  It  should  be  baked  quick, 
and  of  a  light  brown  ;  if  baking  too  fast,  put  a  paper 
on  top. 

QUINCE    TARTS. 

Take  six  quinces,  half  a  pound  of  sugar,  half  a  pint 
of  cream,  four  eggs,  and  nutmeg  to  the  taste. 

COCOA-WUT   PIE. 

Save  the  milk  taken  out  of  the  cocoa-nut,  grate  the 
white  part  and  put  the  milk  Avith  it,  say  a  quart ;  if 
not  able  to  save  the  milk,  add  other  milk.  Simmer  it 
together  for  a  quarter  of  an  hour ;  then  take  it  from 
the  fire  and  mix  two  large  spoonfuls  of  butter,  four  of 
white  sugar,  a  small  cracker  pounded  fine,  and  half  a 
nutmeg.  When  cool,  add  five  well-beaten  eggs  and  a 
wine-glass  of  wine.  Turn  into  deep  plates  with  a  lin- 
ing and  rim  of  nice  pastry,  and  bake  in  a  quick  oven. 
They  must  be  eaten  cold. 

MABLBOROUGH   TARTS. 

Stew  tart  apples  tender ;  strain  through  a  fine  colan- 
der. To  twelve  large  spoonfuls  of  the  apples,  add  the 
juice  and  grated  rind  of  a  lemon,  three  spoonfuls  of 
melted  butter,  half  a  pint  of  milk  or  cream,  a  wine- 
glass of  wine,  half  a  nutmeg,  four  well-beaten  eggs, 
and  sugar  to  the  taste.  Bake  with  a  lining  and  rim ; 
ornament  them  with  pastry  cut  in  flowers,  or  any  de- 
sign you  like.  If  for  grapes,  cut  with  a  thimble,  and 
for  the  leaves,  use  a  pen-knife. 

LEMON   PIE.    NO.   3. 

Grate  two  lemons,  add  the  juice,  but  leave  out  the 
white  part ;  add  two  large  spoonfuls  of  rolled  crackers, 
one  of  butter,  six  of  white  sugar,  and  six  beaten  eggs. 
Put  all  into  a  quart  of  milk,  and  bake  in  deep  plates 
with  pastry  on  the  bottom,  with  a  rim. 

A  PIE-CRUST   "WITH   VERY   LITTLE   BUTTER. 

Take  one  pound  of  flour,  and  two  table-spoonfuls  of 
shortening,  one  tea-spoonful  of  carbonate  of  soda ;  dis- 


124  EXCELSIOR   COOK   BOOK 

solve  half  a  tea-spoonful  of  tartaric  acid  in  cold  water, 
adding  enough  to  make  a  paste ;  roll  quickly.  It  is 
made  better  by  adding  an  egg  before  the  water  is  put  in. 

PASTE   FOR   FAMILY  PIES. 

Rub  half  a  pound  of  shortening  into  a  pound  and  a 
half  of  flour,  wet  with  cold  water  sufiicient  to  make  a 
paste.     Roll  out  several  times. 

PYRAMID   PASTE. 

Make  a  rich  puff  paste,  and  cut  with  different  sized 
cake-cutters,  fitting  one  into  another ;  cut  a  bit  out  of 
each  one,  except  the  top  one  and  bottom ;  bake  on 
buttered  paj^er  laid  on  tins  ;  then  build  them  in  a  py- 
ramid form,  laying  different  preserved  fruit  on  each 
one,  and  on  the  top  a  whole  apricot  with  a  sprig  of 
myrtle  stuck  in,  currants  or  green  gages. 

MINCE   PIE   ^WITHOUT   MEAT. 

Take  four  soda  crackers,  half  a  tea-cupful  of  water, 
half  a  cujD  of  melted  butter,  half  a  cup  of  vinegar,  half 
a  cup  of  boiled  cider,  one  cup  of  molasses,  one  cup  of 
sugar,  one  cup  of  chopj^ed  raisins.     Add  spices. 

A   DELICIOUS   LEMON   PIE. 

Take  the  juice  and  grate  the  rind  of  one  lemon ;  take 
the  yolks  of  two  eggs  and  one  cup  of  sugar,  three 
table-spoonfuls  of  flour,  with  sufiicient  milk  to  fill  the 
dish,  and  bake  until  brown.  Then  beat  the  whites  of 
the  eggs  ;  add  four  table-spoonfuls  of  sugar,  and  spread 
over  the  pie. 

MELON   PIE. 

Pare  and  stew  the  melon  the  same  as  pumpkin ;  to 
one  pint  of  melon  add  one  tea-spoonful  of  tartaric  acid, 
or  a  lemon  cut  up  fine,  a  small  piece  of  butter,  spice 
the  same  as  for  pumpkin.     Bake  without  a  crust. 

A   MINCE    PIE   TVITHOUT    MEAT.    NO.   2.  : 

Chop  three  pounds  of  suet  A^ery  fine,  three  pounds 
of  apple  nicely  cored,  wash  three  pounds  of  currants, 
chop  three  pounds  of  raisins,  or  not,  just  as  you  like, 
one  i^ound  of  sugar,  cut   twelve   ounces  of  candied 


AND   HOTTSEKEEPER's   AID.  125 

orange-peel  very  fine,  six  ounces  of  citron,  a  quarter  of 
an  ounce  of  nutmeg,  lialf  an  ounce  of  cinnamon,  six  or 
eight  cloves,  and  half  pint  of  French  brandy;  cover  it 
close  and  keep  for  use. 

GROUND    CHERR'S    PIE. 

One  pint  ground  cherries  husked  and  washed,  two 
table-spoonfuls  of  sugar,  half  a  lemon  cut  in  small 
pieces,  or  half  a  tea-spoonful  of  the  extract ;  bake  in  a 
slow  oven.  They  can  be  dried  and  kept  for  winter 
use ;  just  before  using,  soak  half  an  hour. 

A   DELICATE    APPLE   PIE. 

Make  a  rich  syrup  of  white  sugar,  boil  lemon-peel  to 
flavor  it ;  then  put  in  tart  apples  that  have  been  nicely 
quartered ;  only  put  a  few  in  at  a  time ;  take  out  as 
soon  as  tender,  and  put  in  your  pie-plates  ;  if  not  sea- 
soned sufficiently,  add  more  lemon  ;  put  on  a  nice  crust. 

APPLE    PUFFS. 

Mix  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  butter  with  a  quart  of 
sifted  flour  ;  beat  two  eggs,  and  a  little  salt.  Rub  well 
together  with  half  a  tea-spoonful  of  soda  dissolved  in 
cold  water.  Moisten  with  cold  Avater  just  enough  to 
roll  it  out  easily.  It  must  be  rolled  very  thin,  and  cut 
with  a  tumbler  ;  put  three  together,  sprinkle  flour  be- 
tween each  one ;  put  on  the  top  a  few  thin  slices  of 
tart  apples ;  sprinkle  sugar  and  nutmeg  over.  Double 
the  pastry  over  them  so  as  to  form  a  crescent ;  press 
the  edges  together,  and  fry  in  lard.  When  of  a  light 
brown,  take  up  carefully. 

GRAPE    PIE. 

Take  green  grapes,  stew  and  strain,  and  sweeten  to 
the  taste.  If  made  of  whole  grapes,  allow  a  tea-cupful 
of  sugar  to  each  pie,  or  a  little  water. 

MARINGOES  OR  CREAM  PUFFS. 

Kub  half  a  pound  of  butter,  three  quarters  of  a 
pound  of  flour  together ;  stir  into  a  pint  of  boiling 
water  while  boiling.  When  thick,  remove  from  the 
fire.     When  cool,  stir  in  a  small  tea-spoonful  of  soda, 


126  EXCELSIOR   COOK   BOOK 

• 

ten  well-beaten  eggs ;  drop  tlie    mixture  on  buttered 

tins  Vvdtli  a  large  spoon,  put  several  inches  apart ;  bake 

of  a  light  brown,  in  a  quick  oven.     When  done,  open 

on  one  side  and  fill  with  mock  cream,  which  is  made 

as  follows  :  One  quart  of  milk  scalded,  beat  four  eggs 

to  a  froth,  one  cup  of  sugar,  one  cup  of  flour,  stir  into 

the  milk  while  boiling ;   when  thick  remove  from  the 

fire;  flavor  with  lemon  or  vanilla.     Put  in  the  pufis 

when  cold. 

MAKIWGOES.    ]SrO.   2. 

Take  the  whites  of  eight  eggs  and  whisk  to  a  froth. 
Stir  in  half  a  pound  of  white  sifted  sugar.  Flavor  with 
any  thing  you  like  ;  then  sift  powdered  sugar  over  them 
and  bake  on  a  board  in  a  slow  oven.  When  done,  take 
them  up  and  beat  the  under  side  with  a  spoon  to  form 
a  hollow,  and  dry  them;  fill  with  cream  or  preserved 
fruit ;  put  two  together,  which  will  form  an  oval  shape. 

SlfO^W-BALIiS. 

Boil  some  rice  until  half  cooked  ;  then  pare  and  core, 
but  not  cut,  some  apples  ;  put  into  each  a  little  salt  and 
cinnamon  or  lemon-peel,  and  then  put  some  of  the  rice 
on  a  cloth,  and  put  the  apples  in ;  tie  up  and  boil  one 
hour.     Eat  with  sugar  and  cream. 

MI]NrCE    PIES 

may  be  made  by  using  potatoes  in  the  j^lace  of  ap- 
ples. Pare  and  chop  the  potatoes  fine,  then  soak  them 
over  night  in  vinegar,  and  they  can  not  be  told  from 
apples.  Turnips  or  beets  may  be  used,  though  not  as 
good  as  potatoes. 

A    PUMPKIN"    PIE    "WITHOUT    STEWING    THE 
PUMPKIN. 

Pare  and  grate  the  pumpkin,  and  to  every  pint  add 
n  pint  of  rich  milk,  two  eggs,  spices,  a  little  flour  and 
ealt.  Squash  pies  may  be  made  the  same,  or  stewed, 
according  to  the  taste.  I  have  also  made  carrot  pies 
in  this  way,  which  are  rich  and  nice. 

CUSTARD    PIES. 

Two  eggs  well  beaten,  a  table-spoonful  and  a  half 
of  sugar,  a  table-spoonful  of  flour,  and  a  pint  and  a 


AND  HOUSEKEEPER'S  AID.  127 

half  of  milk,  makes  a  good  pie.  But  if  you  want  it 
rich,  take  four  eggs,  nutmeg,  and  lemon ;  also  a  little 
salt ;  bake  in  a  slow  oven  ;  be  careful  not  to  bake  too 
much,  as  that  will  make  it  whey. 

MOCK    APPLE    PIE. 

One  tea« cupful  of  light  bread,  two  of  water,  one 
and  a  half  of  sugar,  one  tea-spoonful  of  tartaric  acid, 
•a  little  salt,  cinnamon  and  lemon,  if  you  like ;  boil  the 
bread  and  water  five  minutes ;  then  add  the  other  in- 
gredients. 

ANOTHER. 

Six  crackers,  one  tea-cupful  of  water,  one  of  sugar, 
one  tea-spoonful  tartaric  acid,  a  piece  of  butter  the  size 
of  a  hickory-nut,  and  a  little  salt. 

By  using  an  egg  and  only  four  crackers,  makes  a 
nice  pie. 

RHUBARB    PIE. 

Pull  the  stalks  oif,  (not  cut  them,  as  it  injures  the 
roots ;)  take  the  outside  off,  which  peels  easily ;  cut 
up  in  pieces  an  inch  long ;  wash  clean  in  cold  water ; 
have  your  crust  ready,  and  put  the  pieces  in  evenly ; 
sprinkle  a  little  flour  over  them,  a  small  piece  of  but- 
ter, and  a  tea-cupful  of  sugar;  put  on  another  crust, 
and  bake  in  a  slow  oven.  Sometimes  a  little  nutmeg  or 
lemon  is  an  addition,  but  this  is  according  to  the  taste. 

ANOTHER. 

Stew  the  rhubarb  in  a  little  water,  and  take  one  tea- 
cupful  after  it  is  stewed,  one  tea-cupful  of  sugar,  and 
one  egg,  well  beaten;  a  little  butter.  This  makes  a 
very  nice  pie. 

BLACKBERRY    OR    RASPBERRY    PIE. 

Make  a  rich  crust,  and  lay  the  berries  in ;  sprinkle  a 
little  flour  over  them,  a  little  water,  and  two  table- 
spoonfuls  of  sugar ;  put  on  an  upper  crust ;  bake  in  a 

slow  oven. 

GREEN"    APPLE    PIE. 

Pare  and  slice  the  apples  very  thin ;  lay  in  your 
crust ;  sprinkle  a  little  flour  over  them ;  turn  in  a  very 
little  water,  (if  the  apples  are  juicy,  they  will  not  re- 


128  EXCELSIOR  COOK    BOOK 

quire  so  much  water  as  those  that  are  not ;)  put  in  sugar,- 
according  to  the  taste ;  if  the  apples  are  very  sour,  they 
require  more ;  a  piece  of  butter,  any  kind  of  spice  you 
like,  nutmeg  or  lemon,  is  preferable  to  any  other. 

ANOTHER. 

Pare  and  slice  the  apples ;  put  them  in  your  crust, 
with  a  little  water,  but  no  seasoning  whatever ;  when 
baked,  take  off  the  upper  crust ;  put  in  sugar,  butter,- 
and  spices  to  suit  the  taste.     This  is  nice  eaten  warm. 

Another  way  I  have  of  making  a  green  apple  pie : 
Take  off  the  upper  crust ;  take  out  half  the  apple  in 
another  dish,  (after  spicing  and  seasoning  it  to  your 
taste ;)  turn  the  upper  crust  bottom-side  up ;  put  in 
the  apple  you  have  taken  out,  and  put  a  few  spoonfuls 
of  rich  cream  in ;  grate  in  a  little  more  nutmeg.  This 
makes  a  very  delicious  pie.  I  make  quite  a  thick  crust, 
and  fill  very  full  with  apples. 

Another  way  of  making  apple  pies  is,  to  stew  the  ap- 
ples, season  with  sugar  and  spices,  and  put  in  a  crust, 
and  bake  in  a  slow  oven. 

PUMPKIN    PIE. 

Stew  the  pumpkin ;  strain  through  a  colander ;  and 
to  two  tea-cupfuls,  take  one  and  a  half  of  rich  milk,  a 
table-spoonful  of  flour,  one  tea-spoonful  of  ginger,  a 
little  salt,  and  a  little  allspice ;  bake  in  a  quick  oven. 

A    PUMPKIN"    PIE    WITH    EGGS. 

Stew  the  pumpkin  down  dry;  strain,  and  to  every 
tea-cupful  and  a  half,  add  a  pint  of  milk  and  one  Qgg-, 
a  little  nutmeg,  cinnamon,  ginger,  and  a  little  salt.  This 
makes  a  rich  pie. 

BUTTERNUT    PIE. 

A  tea-cupful  of  butter-nut  meats,  two  eggs,  a  pint 
and  a  half  of  milk,  nearly  two  table-spoonfuls  of  sugar. 

A  hickory  pie  may  be  made  in  the  same  way.  They 
have  a  very  nice  flavor. 

CURRANT    PIE. 
Take  green  currants ;  pick  them  clean,  and  wash ;  a 
single  handful  of  flour  sprinkled  over  the  fruit,  and 


AND   housekeeper's   AID.  129 

plenty  of  sugar,  with  a  little  water ;  they  are  liable  to 
run  over  if  too  much  is  put  in.  A  little  molasses — say 
half  molasses  and  half  sugar — is  nice  for  a  currant  pie. 
One  half  raisins  is  a  great  improvement. 

DRIED    APPLE    PIES. 

Stew  the  apple,  and  then  strain  it  through  a  colan- 
der ;  season  according  to  the  taste,  and  bake  in  a  slow 
oven. 

TAUT    PIES 

may  be  made  of  almost  any  kind  of  fruit  which  is 
tart ;  and  put  in  a  rich  paste ;  cut  strips  of  pastry,  and 
twist  it,  and  put  on  the  top,  in  any  shape  you  fancy. 
I  have  made  very  nice  tarts  of  cider  apple-sauce. 

TAKTS. 

Make  a  rich  paste ;  cut  out  with  a  tumbler  or  cake- 
cutter  ;  then  cut  strips  of  paste  to  lay  on  top ;  press  it 
in  the  middle  to  form  deeper ;  then  lay  in  sweetmeats, 
and  bake  on  tins. 

APPLE    CUSTAKD    PIE. 

Grate  five  sweet  apples  for  every  pie,  a  pint  and  a 
half  of  rich  milk,  two  eggs,  sugar,  a  little  salt,  nutmeg 
or  lemon ;  bake  as  a  custard  pie. 

LEMOW    PIE.     K"0.    4. 

One  lemon  sliced  very  thin,  one  tea-cupful  of  sugar, 
one  of  water,  one  egg ;  bake  in  a  slow  oven.  It  is 
very  good  without  the  egg,  but  will  require  a  table- 
spoonful  of  flour. 

A    KICE    PIE. 

Wash  and  boil  the  rice  until  nearly  done ;  one  tea- 
cupful  after  it  is  boiled,  two  eggs,  a  pint  and  a  half  of 
milk,  a  little  salt,  sugar,  nutmeg ;  bake  as  a  custard 
pie. 

MI]SrCE    PIES. 

Boil  beef  until  it  will  slip  off  the  bone  ;  the  head 
and  heart  are  nice  for  pies  ;  chop  fine ;  take  one  quart 
of  meat  to  two  of  green  apples,  chopped  fine.  A 
plenty  of  box  raisins,  allspice,  cloves,  cinnamon,  nut- 
meg, pepper,  salt,  are  all  necessary  for  these  pies  ; 
6* 


130  EXCELSIOR   COOK   BOOK 

also  a  little  boiled  cider,  whicli  takes  the  place  of 
brandy;  use  either  molasses  or  sugar;  I  think  half 
of  each  is  better,  and  sometimes  I  use  a  little  lemon, 
which  is  an  improvement.  Put  in  all  the  ingredients, 
and  put  over  a  slow  fire,  and  let  it  simmer  an  hour, 
when  they  can  be  put  in  the  paste,  and  bake  slowly. 
These  pies  will  keep  longer  than  any  other,  and  are  a 
favorite  with  almost  every  one.  If  you  do  not  wish 
to  use  all  your  meat  at  once,  put  in  the  spices,  and 
cover  with  molasses ;  then  set  it  away  in  the  cellar 
until  needed,  when  the  apples  can  be  added,  and  more 
seasoning,  if  required. 

COCOA-NUT    PIE.    NO.    2. 

Grate  it,  and  mix  with  milk ;  boil  eight  or  ten  min- 
utes. To  a  pint  of  cocoa-nuts,  add  a  quart  of  milk,  and 
four  eggs,  a  little  sweet  cream,  a  cracker  rolled  fine, 
and  a  little  nutmeg ;  bake  in  a  deep  dish,  like  a  cus- 
tard. 

TOMATO    PIE. 

Take  green  tomatoes ;  pare  and  slice  them ;  lay  in 
the  crust;  sprinkle  over  a  little  flour,  sugar  or  mo- 
lasses, part  of  a  lemon  sliced,  and  a  little  water.  This 
makes  an  excellent  pie. 

You  can  use  ripe  tomatoes  if  you  like,  but  they  re- 
quire an  egg,  and  a  little  cream. 

DKIED    TOMATO    PIE. 

Take  ripe  ones ;  throw  them  in  boiling  water  to  take 
the  skins  off;  then  slice  them  ;  lay  them  on  dishes  ;  sprin- 
kle a  little  sugar  over  them,  and  dry  in  a  warm  oven. 
They  can  be  put  in  bags  for  winter  use.  Soak  in  a  lit- 
tle water,  and  lay  in  the  paste,  with  lemon,  a  little 
flour  and  sugar. 

ELDERBEKIIY    PIE. 

This  pie  requires  but  very  little  sugar.  A  table- 
spoonful  of  vinegar  or  a  little  lemon,  with  a  little  flour 
sprinkled  over,  is  an  improvement.  They  are  a  juicy 
pie,  and  will  need  no  water.     Bake  slowly. 

A    CHEKRY    PIE. 

Stone  your  cherries  ;  lay  them  in  your  paste,  put  in 
a  sufficient  quantity  of  sugar,  a  little  water,  and  a  hand- 


AND   HOUSEKEEPER'S   AID.  181 

ful  of  flour  sprinkled  over ;  then  put  on  a  nice  paste. 
Some  prefer  molasses  instead  of  sugar.  They  require 
no  water,  if  molasses  is  used. 

PEACH    PIE. 

Pare  and  slice  the  peaches ;  sprinkle  over  a  little 
flour  and  sugar,  then  a  rich  crust,  and  bake  slowly. 
This  is  a  most  delicious  pie.  Dried  peaches  are  made 
the  same,  except  the  peaches  must  be  stewed  first. 

AlSrOTHER    LEMOW    PIE. 

Grate  three  lemons  ;  beat  three  eggs,  one  tea-cupful 
of  water,  three  table-spoonfuls  of  sugar  to  each  lemon. 

GOOSEBERRY    PIE. 

Rub  the  gooseberry  in  a  flannel  cloth  to  take  the 
prickles  ofi";  then  wash  clean,  and  make  as  a  currant  pie. 

QUINCE    PIE. 

Pare  six  apples  and  one  quince  ;  stew  until  soft ;  then 
sweeten  them,  and  bake  in  a  crust. 

CRANBERRY    TARTS. 
One  pound  of  sugar  to  one  quart  of  cranberries ;  put 
a  little  water  on  them,  and  stew  until  done.     When 
wanted  for  use,  put  them  in  a  rich  paste. 

APPLE    PUFPS. 

Pare  the  apples,  and  bake  them  slowly ;  when  cold, 
season  with  sugar  and  lemon-peel  grated,  or  cmnamon  ; 
bake  them  in  a  thin  paste. 

A    CREAM    PIE. 

Make  a  rich  crust ;  beat  one  egg,  one  pint  and  a  half 
of  rich  cream,  and  one  table-spoonful  of  flour,  a  little 
salt,  nutmeg,  or  lemon.     Bake  as  a  custard. 

LEMON    CREAM    PIE. 
One  raw  potato  grated,  one  cup  of  water,  one  cup  of 
sugar,  one  lemon  grated,  and  juice  added ;  baked  m 
pastry,  top  and  bottom. 


132  EXCE18I0R   COOK   BOOK 

PUDDING-S. 

DIKECTIONS    FOB    PUDDINGS. 

For  boiled  puddings,  a  bag  should  be  made  of  thick 
cotton  cloth,  or  a  tin  basin  is  the  best,  with  the  cover 
fitting  tight,  and  then  tied  on.  If  a  cloth  is  used,  it 
must  be  wrung  out  of  hot  water,  and  floured  on  the 
inside.  It  must  have  room  to  swell,  as  they  swell  while 
boiling.  Put  a  skewer  on  plate  in  the  kettle  to  prevent 
it  sticking  to  the  bottom.  The  water  must  boil  when 
the  pudding  is  put  in,  and  in  five  minutes  must  be  turn- 
ed over,  or  it  is  apt  to  be  heavy,  if  not  turned.  If  the 
water  boils  down,  more  must  be  added,  but  it  must  be 
boiling  hot,  and  not  suffered  to  get  off  a  boil  until  taken 
up.  When  taken  out  of  the  bag,  di})  into  cold  water 
for  a  minute,  and  it  will  easily  slip  out.  Raisins  or 
fruits  should  be  rolled  in  flour  to  prevent  their  settling. 
Plum  puddings  are  better  if  made  the  night  before 
used,  the  eggs  added  in  the  morning. 

AKKO^AT-BOOT    PUDDING. 

Stir  two  arge  spoonfuls  of  arrow-root,  having  made 
it  smooth,  into  a  pint  of  boiling  milk,  stir  until  it 
thickens  ;  remove  from  the  fire,  and  mix  a  grated  nut- 
meg, a  tea-spoonful  of  salt,  half  a  cup  of  sugar,  two 
spoonfuls  of  wine,  and  a  pint  of  milk ;  when  lukewarm, 
add  four  beaten  eggs,  and  bake  it. 

POUND    PUDDING. 

Take  one  pound  of  suet  chopped  very  fine,  one  pound 
of  flour,  one  pound  of  sugar,  one  pound  raisins,  eight 
eggs  ;  boil  eight  hours  ;  eat  with  pudding  sauce. 

ALMOND    PUDDING. 

Beat  six  eggs  as  light  as  possible,  add  three  spoon- 
fuls of  white  sugar ;  mix  with  a  quart  of  milk,  three 
large  spoonfuls  of  rolled  crackers,  four  ounces  of  melted 
butter,  the  same  of  citron  cut  in  strips.  Take  three 
quarters  of  a  pound  of  sweet  almonds  and  pour  boiling 
water  on  them,  and  let  them  remain  until  the  skins  will 
come  off,  then  rub  with  a  dry  cloth ;  when  perfectly 
dry,  pound  fine,  with  a  large  spoonful  of  rose-water; 


AND   housekeeper's   AID.  133 

Stir  into  the  above  mixture,  and  bake  in  a  pudding-dish, 
with  a  pastry  lining  and  rim.  Bake  half  an  hour.  It 
is  best  cold. 

VERMICELLI  PUDDING. 
Take  a  pint  of  milk  and  simmer,  two  ounces  of  ver- 
micelli, the  rind  of  a  lemon  and  a  stick  of  mace  ;  when 
tender,  remove  from  the  fire,  and  mix  with  it  a  pint  of 
cold  milk,  a  glass  of  wine,  salt  and  sugar  to  the  taste ; 
when  cool,  beat  four  eggs  and  stir  in.  Bake  in  a  mode- 
rate oven. 

A    TBANSPARENT    PUDDING. 

Take  tart  apples,  of  a  medium  size,  remove  the  cores 
without  quartering  and  lay  them  in  a  pudding-dish,  fill 
the  holes  with  white  sugar  and  a  little  mace  ;  for  half 
a  dozen  apples  take  a  pound  of  sago,  rinse  in  cold 
water,  and  strew  around  the  apples  in  the  dish,  pour 
in  water  until  it  just  covers  the  apples.  Bake  until  the 
apples  become  soft,  and  the  sago  forms  a  jelly.  They 
must  not  brown,  if  they  do,  put  a  plate  over  them. 
Serve  up  hot  or  cold,  with  white  sugar  and  cream. 

NORFOLK    DUMPLINGS. 
Mix  a  pint  of  milk,  a  pint  of  flour,  five  eggs,  well 
beaten,  a  little  salt ;  take  a  large  spoon,  and  drop  a 
spoonful  at  a  time  in  boiling  water.     In  five  minutes 
take  up  and  serve  with  pudding  sauce. 

TRANSPARENT  PUDDING.  NO.  2. 
Beat  eight  eggs  very  light,  and  put  in  a  saucepan 
with  a  pound  of  white  sugar,  half  a  pound  of  butter, 
and  a  little  nutmeg  grated ;  set  it  on  the  fire,  and  stir 
it  until  it  thickens.  Put  a  puff  paste  round  the  rim  of 
a  basin,  and  when  cold,  turn  in  and  bake  in  a  moderate 
oven.  Candied  orange  or  lemon  may  be  added,  if  you 
like.     It  will  cut  clear. 

SQUASH    PUDDING. 

One  pint  of  mashed  squash,  four  apples  pared  and 
cored,  then  stewed  tender  ;  add  a  spoonful  of  bread- 
crumbs, half  a  pint  of  milk,  one  spoonful  of  wme,  and 
the  same  of  rose-water,  three  eggs,  nutmeg,  salt,  atd 


134  EXCELSIOR   COOK   BOOK 

sugar  to  the  taste ;  beat  well  together,  and  then  line 
a  basin  with  puff-paste,  and  bake  three  quarters  of  an 
hour. 

TAPIOCA    PUDDING.    NO.    1. 

Put  four  spoonfuls  of  tapioca  into  a  quart  of  milk,  let 
it  remain  all  night,  then  add  a  spoonful  of  brandy, 
lemon-peel  and  spice  ;  boil  gently,  and  add  four  beaten 
eggs,  and  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  sugar  ;  then  bake  it. 

'WILTSHIKE    PUDDING. 

A  pint  of  milk,  three  beaten  eggs,  flour  to  make  a 
stiff  batter ;  add  a  little  salt ;  stir  in  a  large  cup  of 
currants,  or  any  kind  of  fruit  you  like ;  put  in  a  bag 
and  boil  two  hours.     Eat  with  sauce. 

A    KICH    PUDDING. 

Take  four  ounces  of  butter,  the  same  of  sugar  and 
marmalade,  also  five  beaten  eggs  ;  put  in  a  stewpan 
and  stir  all  one  way  until  warm,  but  not  boil ;  bake  in 
a  dish  with  puff-paste. 

RATAFIA    PUDDING. 

Pound  two  ounces  of  blanched  almonds,  with  a  little 
rose-water,  and  two  ounces  of  ratafia  cakes,  add  the 
yolks  of  six  eggs  and  the  whites  of  two,  two  glasses  of 
wine,  a  pint  of  thick  cream,  and  one  ounce  of  loaf- 
sugar  ;  bake  in  a  dish,  lined  with  puff-paste,  three 
quarters  of  an  hour. 

PLUM    PUDDING    'WITHOUT    EGGS. 

Four  ounces  of  finely  minced  suet,  half  a  pound  of 
grated  bread,  half  a  pound  of  currants,  two  ounces  of 
brown  sugar,  a  glass  of  brandy ;  mix  all  together  with 
milk  sufiicient  to  make  a  stiff  batter ;  boil  in  a  cloth 
from  four  to  six  hours. 

LEMON    PUDDING. 

Take  half  a  pound  of  butter,  the  same  of  white  sugar, 
put  into  a  saucepan  over  the  fire,  and  stir  until  it  boils ; 
then  take  off,  and  grate  the  rind  of  a  large  lemon  into 
it,  and  let  it  stand  until  cool ;  then  beat  six  eggs,  and 
squeeze  tl/e  juice  of  the  lemon  over  them  ;  mix  the  but- 


AND   housekeeper's   AID.  135 

ter  and  sugar  with  them.  Line  a  dish  with  nice  pastry 
and  fill  up,  then  bake  slowly.  Add  bits  of  candied 
lemon-peel.  This  is  a  very  rich  pudding.  Fewer  eggs 
may  be  used,  and  a  little  cream  used,  if  preferred. 

LEMOW    PUDDING.    NO.    2. 

Boil  two  lemons  till  quite  tender,  then  take  out  the 
seeds,  and  pound  the  lemons  to  a  paste ;  add  four 
ounces  of  butter,  the  same  of  white  sugar ;  beat  to  a 
froth  the  yolks  of  three  eggs  ;  mix  well  together,  and 
bake  in  a  puff-paste.  When  taken  up,  strew  white 
sugar  on  the  top. 

OBANGE    PUDDING. 

Squeeze  out  the  juice  of  three  Seville  oranges,  and 
boil  the  skins  in  considerable  water ;  when  tender, 
pound  in  a  mortar,  and  mix  the  yolks  of  nine  beaten 
eggs,  and  the  whites  of  four,  three  quarters  of  a  pound 
of  white  sugar,  the  juice  of  the  oranges,  and  half  a 
pound  of  melted  butter.  Bake  half  an  hour,  in  a  dish 
lined  with  puff-paste. 

CARROT    PUDDING. 

Scrape  and  boil  two  large  carrots  ;  mash  fine,  and 
strain  through  a  colander ;  add  a  slice  of  bread,  two 
ounces  of  melted  butter,  the  same  quantity  of  sugar,  a 
table-spoonful  of  marmalade,  or  orange-peel  minced  fine, 
four  well-beaten  eggs,  and  nutmegs ;  mix  well  together, 
and  bake  in  a  dish  lined  with  paste. 

SPRING  FRUIT  PUDDING. 
Peel  and  wash  rhubarb  ;  put  in  a  stewpan  with  a 
lemon,  and  sugar  sufficient  to  sweeten,  set  it  over  the 
fire  until  soft,  press  it  through  a  sieve,  and  add  the 
yolks  of  four  eggs  and  one  of  whites,  and  a  quarter  of 
a  pound  of  butter,  a  nutmeg ;  beat  all  together,  and  put 
in  a  puff-paste.     Bake  half  an  hour. 

COCOA-NUT    PUDDING. 

Take  four  ounces  of  sugar,  three  ounces  of  butter ; 
stir  to  a  cream ;  add  half  a  glass  of  brandy,  the  same 
of  wine,  beat  the  whites  of  six  eggs,  and  stir  in ;  then 


136  EXCELSIOR   COOK   BOOK 

grate  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  grated  cocoa-nut.  Bake 
in  a  basin,  with  a  lining  of  pastry.  Grate  loaf-sugar 
over. 

FAMILY    PUDDING. 

One  pound  of  flour,  half  a  pound  of  suet,  half  a  pound 
of  stoned  raisins,  a  little  salt,  milk  to  make  a  stiff  batter ; 
add  two  eggs,  if  you  like,  and  boil  five  hours.  Eat 
with  sauce. 

PLUM    PUDDING. 

One  pound  chopped  suet,  five  table-spoonfuls  of  flour, 
the  same  of  sugar,  five  beaten  eggs,  (the  yolks  only,) 
and  the  whites  of  three,  a  tea-spoonful  of  salt,  and  a 
poimd  of  raisins.  Boil  six  hours  in  a  cloth.  Serve 
with  a  sauce. 

CITKOW    PUDDING. 

The  yolks  of  eggs,  half  a  pint  of  cream,  one  spoon- 
ful of  flour,  two  ounces  of  citron  cut  thin  ;  sugar  to  the 
taste.  Bake  in  a  quick  oven,  and  when  done,  turn  out 
of  the  cups. 

EVE'S    PUDDING. 

Half  a  pound  of  suet,  half  a  pound  of  chopped  apples, 
half  a  pound  of  sugar,  half  a  pound  of  flour,  half  a 
pound  of  stoned  raisins  dredged  with  flour,  a  little  salt, 
a  glass  of  brandy,  a  grated  nutmeg,  lastly,  five  eggs, 
whipped  to  a  froth. 

APPLE    DUMPLINGS. 

Pare,  and  take  out  the  core  of  good-sized  apples ;  put 
a  nice  paste  around  tliem,  and  steam  an  hour  and  a 
half ;  then  take  off  a  piece  of  the  top,  and  lay  in  sugar, 
put  the  paste  on  again,  and  serve  with  butter  and 
cream.  The  apples  may  be  filled  with  sugar,  (where 
the  core  was  taken  out,)  before  cooking,  if  you  like. 

SOFT    MUFFINS. 

Take  a  quart  of  milk  and  two  spoonfuls  of  butter ; 
beat  five  eggs  very  light,  and  stir  in ;  then  stir  in  two 
large  spoonfuls  of  good  yeast,  and  a  little  salt,  and 
lastly  flour  to  make  a  stiff  batter.  Let  it  rise,  in  a 
warm  place,  which  will  be  in  about  three  hours ;  then 
grease  your  baking-iron  and  rings,  set  the  iron  on  the 


AND   housekeeper's   AID,  137 

rings,  and  bake  a  light  brown.     Do  not  cut  them  open 
with  a  knife,  but  pull  them  open  with  your  hands. 

SAGO    PUDDING. 

Soak  six  table-spoonfuls  of  sago  two  hours,  in  cold 
water,  boil  it  in  a  quart  of  milk  till  soft.  Stir  in  a  little 
butter,  add  one  tea-cup  of  white  sugar,  and  let  it  cool ; 
beat  six  eggs  to  a  froth,  and  stir  in.  Season  with 
lemon,  rose-water,  or  nutmeg,  and  add  currants  or  rai- 
sins. Flour  them  before  putting  in,  or  they  will  settle 
at  the  bottom.  Stir  the  whole,  and  put  in  a  buttered 
dish,  and  bake  three  quarters  of  an  hour.  It  may  be 
served  cold, 

BAKED    INDIAN    PUDDING. 

Scald  a  quart  of  milk,  stir  in  meal  sufficient  to  make 
a  batter.  Season  with  molasses,  allspice,  and  salt,  to 
suit  the  taste.  Then  put  it  in  a  tin  basin  ;  turn  a  tea- 
cupful  of  rich  milk  on  top  ;  cut  up  a  few  pieces  of  but- 
ter and  lay  around  ;  then  put  it  in  the  oven,  and  bake 
two  hours.     It  is  equally  as  nice  as  it  is  with  eggs. 

A    BOILED    INDIAN    PUDDING. 

A  quart  of  buttermilk,  or  sour  milk,  one  tea-cupful 
of  flour,  two  of  meal,  a  litle  salt,  sour  apples  chopped 
up  or  sliced ;  wet  your  bag,  and  boil  two  hours.  Serve 
with  sugar  and  cream. 

COKN    STARCH    PUDDING. 

One  quart  of  milk  scalded,  four  table-sj^oonfuls  of 
corn-starch,  wet  with  a  little  cold  milk,  a  little  salt ; 
stir  it  in  the  milk,  and  turn  in  your  moulds.  Eat  cold, 
with  sweetened  cream. 

ENGLISH    PUDDING. 

Two  tea-cupfuls  of  milk,  one  quart  of  flour,  two  cups 
of  molasses,  three  eggs,  one  pound  of  raisins,  one  pound 
of  suet,  two  tea-spoonfuls  of  cream  of  tartar,  and  one 
tea-spoonful  of  soda.  This  can  either  be  boiled  or 
steamed.     It  is  better  steamed. 

SUET    PUDDING. 

One  tea-cuj^ful  of  milk,  one  tea-cupful  of  molasses, 
three-fourths  of  a  tea-cupful  of  suet  chof)ped  fine,  one 


138  EXCELSIOR   COOK   BOOK 

tea-spoonful  of  soda,  and  one  of  salt,  half  a  tea-cupful 
of  butter,  half  a  tea-cup  of  raisins  ;  stir  together  with 
flour  enough  to  make  a  batter  ;  add  nutmeg  or  cinna- 
mon.   Steam  from  two  to  three  hours.    Eat  with  cream. 

CREAM    PUDDING-. 

Mix  a  pint  of  flour  with  a  pint  of  milk ;  beat  six  eggs 
to  a  frotii ;  mix  with  them  three  table-spoonfuls  of  pow- 
dered sugar,  and  the  grated  rind  of  a  lemon ;  add  it  to 
the  milk  and  flour ;  put  in  a  little  salt,  and  a  pint  of 
thick  sweet  cream.     Bake  in  a  tin  dish. 

EGG    PUDDING. 

One  pint  of  milk,  four  eggs,  four  spoonfuls  of  flour,  a 
little  salt ;  boiled  in  a  bag  one  hour  and  a  half.  Use  a 
liquid  sauce,  with  brandy,  or  one  made  of  butter,  sugar, 
and  nutmeg,  mashed  until  light.  Care  should  always 
be  taken  in  boiling  puddings  to  have  the  water  boiling 
when  put  in,  and  not  stop  boiling  until  taken  out. 

BREAD    PUDDING.^ 

Cut  slices  of  bread,  or  broken  pieces,  and  soak  in  milk 
mitil  soft ;  then  add  two  eggs  to  every  quart  of  milk, 
and  season  w^ith  salt,  cinnamon,  or  nutmeg,  also  a  little 
butter.     Bake  like  a  custard. 

A    RICE    PUDDING. 

Boil  a  cofiee-cup  of  rice,  until  half  done ;  then  add 
three  pints  of  milk,  four  eggs,  or  two  eggs  will  do,  if 
you  have  not  a  quantity  of  them,  four  spoonfuls  of 
sugar,  and  one  tea- cupful  of  raisins,  and  a  little  salt. 
Flavor  with  nutmeg,  and  bake  until  thick.  When  half 
baked,  take  a  table-spoon  and  stir  it  up,  or  else  the  rai- 
sins will  settle  at  the  bottom. 

A    BOILED    RICE    PUDDING. 

Boil  one  pint  of  rice,  half  a  pound  of  raisins,  a  tea- 
spoonful  of  salt ;  when  soft  (there  should  only  be  water 
enough  put  on  to  boil  it  tender)  add  a  quart  of  milk, 
and  a  tea-cupful  of  cream ;  beat  two  eggs,  and  add  four 
spoonfuls  of  sugar,  and  stir  in,  also  a  little  nutmeg,  and 
let  it  simmer  five  minutes.     If  you  prefer,  leave  out  the 


AND   housekeeper's   AID.  139 

eggs  and  sugar,  and  eat  with  butter  and  sugar  mashed, 
which  I  think  is  preferable.  Rice,  when  cooking,  should 
never  be  stirred. 

SATJTEET    CORN    PUDDING. 

Take  tAvelve  ears  of  sweet  corn,  and  grate  them  ;  beat 
four  eggs,  one  quart  of  sweet  milk,  a  piece  of  butter,  a 
little  salt.     Bake  two  hours. 

PLUM    PUDDING. 

One  pint  of  milk,  six  eggs,  one  pound  of  plums,  one 
tea-cup  of  suet,  one  tea-cup  of  sugar ;  wet  the  bag,  and 
boil  three  hours.     Serve  with  sauce. 

PUFF    PUDDING. 

Take  six  eggs,  six  spoonfuls  of  flour,  one  quart  of 
milk.  Bake  twenty  minutes.  Serve  with  butter  and 
sugar,  stirred  to  a  froth.     Add  nutmeg. 

FLOUR    PUDDING.' 

One  quart  of  milk,  scalded ;  stir  a  pint  and  a  half  of 
flour  in  some  cold  milk,  just  enough  to  wet  it,  and  when 
free  from  lumps,  stir  it  into  the  scalded  milk ;  beat  seven 
eggs,  a  little  salt.  It  may  be  either  baked  or  boiled. 
It  takes  two  hours  to  boil,  and  an  hour  to  bake.  Serve 
with  a  nutmeg  sauce.  You  could  add  raisins,  or  any 
kind  of  fruit  you  like. 

ROLLY    POOLY    PUDDING. 

Make  a  crust,  as  you  would  for  a  pie ;  roll  it  out,  but 
not  as  thin  as  for  pies,  say  half  an  inch  thick ;  then  strew 
on  any  kind  of  fruit,  such  as  currants,  raspberry,  cher- 
ries, strawberry,  or  in  the  winter,  dried  fruit,  soaked 
until  soft,  or  preserves  are  good  for  this  kind  of  pud- 
ding. Boil  two  hours,  or  according  to  the  size  of  it ;  if 
large,  it  requires  longer.  It  must  be  rolled  in  a  cloth, 
and  pinned  at  the  ends,  also  tie  a  string  around.  Eat 
with  a  sauce,  or  rich  cream  and  sugar,  with  nutmeg. 

ENGLISH    PLUM    PUDDING. 

Soak  a  pint  of  crackers  in  a  quart  of  milk ;  add  half 
a  tea-cup  of  butter,  four  spoonfuls  of  sugar,  half  a. pint 


140  EXCELSIOR   COOK   BOOK 

of  flour,  half  a  wine-glass  of  wine,  and  half  a  grated 
nutmeg ;  beat  five  eggs  and  stir  in ;  add  a  quarter  of  a 
pound  of  seeded  raisins,  the  same  of  Zante  currants, 
and  two  ounces  of  citron.  Bake  or  boil  two  hours. 
Serve  with  a  brandy  sauce. 

A    BKEAD    AISTD    BUTTEK    PUDDING. 

Cut  slices  of  bread ;  then  spread  them  with  butter 
and  green  apple  sauce ;  lay  in  a  bake-dish,  until  nearly 
full ;  then  beat  two  eggs,  one  quart  of  milk,  three  spoon- 
fuls of  sugar,  and  pour  over  it.  Grate  in  some  nutmeg, 
or  cinnamon,  and  bake  like  a  custard. 

LEMON    DUMPLINGS. 

Squeeze  the  juice  from  a  lemon  ;  chop  the  rind ;  add 
half  a  pound  of  suet,  chopped  fine,  half  a  pound  of 
bread-crumbs,  one  egg,  milk  sufiicient  to  make  a  paste  ; 
sweeten  to  the  taste,  or  not,  just  as  you  like ;  divide  in- 
to small  parts ;  tie  in  cloths ;  boil  three  quarters  of  an 
hour.     Serve  with  wine  sauce. 

CRUST    FOR    A    SAVORY    PIE. 

One  pound  of  flour,  one  and  a  half  pounds  of  butter ; 
break  in  small  pieces,  and  wash  in  cold  water;  then 
rub  the  butter  and  flour  together,  and  mix  in  the  yolks 
of  three  eggs ;  beat  with  a  wooden  spoon,  and  add  a 
pint  of  ice-water ;  roll  out,  and  fold  three  times.  Leave 
on  ice  two  hours  before  using. 

BOILED    RICE    PUDDING. 

Swell  a  large  cup  of  rice  in  milk,  till  soft ;  then  add 
two  eggs,  milk  or  cream,  to  make  it  sufficiently  thin  ; 
butter  a  mould,  stone  some  raisins,  and  place  around 
the  mould  ;  add  currants  and  sugar  to  the  rice ;  fill  the 
mould,  and  tie  up  ;  then  boil.  Add  a  custard,  flavored 
with  rum,  when  sent  to  the  table.     Good  eaten  cold. 

MERINGUE    PUDDING. 

Take  one  pint  of  bread-crumbs,  one  quart  of  milk, 
one  tea-cup  of  sugar,  the  yolks  of  four  eggs,  four  ounces 
of  butter,  the  rind  of  one  lemon ;  mix  well,  and  bake ; 
then  spread  currant-jelly  or  jam  on  top,  and  over  that 


AND   housekeeper's   AID.  141 

the  whites  of  the  eggs,  well  beaten,  with  five  table- 
spoonfuls  of  sugar,  and  the  juice  of  the  lemon.  Keturn 
to  the  oven  a  few  minutes. 

MINUTE    DUMPLING. 

Beat  four  eggs  light,  mix  four  even  table-spoonfuls 
of  flour  with  one  pint  of  milk ;  add  the  eggs ;  strain, 
and  add  sugar  and  nutmeg ;  then  pour  in  buttered  tea- 
cups, about  three  parts  full.  Bake  quick.  Serve  with 
sauce. 

QUAKIJSra    PUDDING. 

Stir  eight  table-spoonfuls  of  flour  smooth,  with  a  lit- 
tle milk ;  then  pour  it  into  a  quart  of  boiling  milk  ;  add 
two  eggs,  a  little  butter,  and  salt ;  when  it  comes  to  a 
boil,  it  is  done.     Eat  with  sauce. 

A    CHEAP    BATTER    PUDDING. 

One  quart  of  milk,  one  quart  of  flour,  six  eggs,  a  lit- 
tle salt ;  stir  the  flour  in  so  that  it  will  not  be  lumpy ;  boil 
one  hour  in  a  cloth.     Serve  with  a  sauce. 

GOOSEBERRY    PUDDING. 

Stew  a  pint  of  gooseberries  till  soft,  mash  them  fine, 
sweeten  to  the  taste  ;  add  two  ounces  of  butter,  two  of 
bread-crumbs,  and  three  eggs ;  lay  it  in  a  pufi"-paste  in 
a  deep  dish  ;  bake  half  an  hour.  Apples  may  be  used 
instead. 

LEMONS  TO  KEEP  FOR  PUDDINGS. 

Save  all  the  rinds  and  throw  into  cold  water  ;  after  a 
few  days  boil  until  tender,  then  strain,  and  when  nearly 
dry,  throw  into  a  syrup  of  sugar  and  a  little  water ;  in 
a  week  or  two  boil  till  they  look  clear.  Orange-peel 
may  be  done  in  the  same  manner. 

A   BOILED    BREAD    PUDDING. 

Take  a  small  loaf  of  baker's  bread,  soak  soft ;  add 
one  beaten  egg^  a  cup  of  raisins,  a  spoonful  of  butter ; 
mix  well  and  boil  one  hour.     Serve  with  sauce. 

A   COMPOSITION    PUDDING. 
Take  stoned  raisins,  currants,  minced  apples,  chopped 
suet,  grated  bread,  and  brown  sugar,  a  tea-cupful  of 


142  EXCELSIOR   COOK  BOOK 

each ;  four  well-beaten  eggs,  a  little  salt,  a  tea-spoonful 
of  root  ginger  pounded  fine,  half  a  nutmeg  grated,  and 
one  glass  of  brandy  ;  mix  well  and  boil  in  a  cloth  two 
hours.     Serve  with  a  wine  sauce. 

APPLE    PUDDING  ^^ITH    KICE. 

Pare  and  slice  nice  flavored  apples,  and  lay  in  a  deep 
dish  ;  have  ready  some  boiled  rice  in  milk,  and  seasoned 
with  sugar ;  lay  on  a  layer  an  inch  and  a  half  thick ; 
pour  over  this,  two  or  three  eggs  beaten  with  sugar ; 
bake  until  the  apples  are  tender ;  eat  with  cream  and 
sugar  ;  a  little  nutmeg  is  an  addition. 

FKESH  PRUIT  PUDDING. 
Line  a  dish  with  soda  biscuit,  then  fill  up  with  fruit — 
cherries,  blackberries,  plums,  apples,  or  any  kind  of 
fruit  you  like  ;  sprinkle  on  sugar,  and  bake  till  the  crust 
is  done ;  eat  with  cream ;  nice  for  children.  Another 
way  is  to  put  in  the  fruit  first,  and  put  a  cover  on  top, 
then  bake. 

AMBER    PUDDING. 

Melt  a  pound  of  butter,  and  stir  in  three  quarters  of 
a  pound  of  white  sugar ;  then  add  the  yolks  of  fifteen 
eggs  beaten,  and  as  much  candied  orange  as  will  give 
it  color  and  flavor  ;  line  a  dish  with  paste,  and  lay  the 
mixture  in ;  lay  a  crust  over,  and  bake.     Eat  hot  or  cold. 

QUINCE    PUDDING. 

Take  six  large  ripe  quinces ;  pare  and  grate  them ; 
mix  the  pulp  with  half  a  pint  of  cream,  and  half  a  pound 
of  white  sugar  ;  beat  the  yolks  of  seven  eggs,  (omitting 
all  the  whites  except  two,)  and  stir  them  into  the  mix- 
ture with  one  wine-glass  of  wine  ;  stir  the  whole  well 
together  and  bake  in  a  buttered  tin  three  quarters  of  an 
hour ;  grate  sugar  over  it  when  cold. 

BOILED    APPLE    PUDDING. 

Pare  and  core  as  many  apples  as  will  weigh  two 
pounds  when  done  ;  put  in  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of 
sugar,  a  little  nutmeg,  and  one  lemon,  grate  the  peel ; 
make  a  paste  of  suet  and  flour,  in  proportion  of  one 
pound  of  chopped  suet  to  two  of  flour ;  roll  it  out  and 
lay  the  apples  in  the  center,  and  close  the  paste  nicely 


AKD  housekeeper's   AID.  liS 

over  them ;  tie  in  a  cloth  and  boil  from  two  to  three 
hours.     Eat  with  cream  and  sugar,  or  butter  and  sugar. 

A    SUET    PUDDING. 

Take  one  tea-cupful  of  suet,  chopped  fine,  two  cup- 
fuls  of  bread-crumbs ;  boil  a  quart  of  milk  and  pour  on 
the  bread ;  when  cool,  stir  six  eggs  well  beaten  Avith  the 
suet,  into  the  milk,  also  three  table-spoonfuls  of  flour, 
nuts,  and  cinnamon ;  pour  it  into  a  bag  and  tie  firmly  ; 
boil  two  hours.     Eat  with  sauce. 

PUDDING    IN    HASTE. 

Take  two  cups  of  bread-crumbs,  half  a  tea-cupful  of 
Buet,  a  tea-cupful  of  currants,  four  eggs,  and  some 
grated  lemon-peel,  and  a  little  ginger-root  ground ; 
make  in  little  balls  the  size  of  an  egg,  and  throw  into 
boiling  water ;  boil  them  about  twenty  minutes,  or  they 
will  rise  at  the  top  when  done.     Eat  with  sauce. 

A    PLAIN    PLUM    PUDDING. 

Take  a  ]Dint  of  flour,  a  pint  of  suet,  one  tea-cupful  of 
raisins,  the  same  of  currants,  a  glass  of  wine,  one  egg, 
and  milk  enough  to  wet  it ;  add  spice  to  your  taste  ; 
boil  three  hours. 

CKEAM    ALMOND    PUDDING. 

Beat  five  eggs,  and  take  eight  table-spoonfuls  of  flour 
dissolved  in  a  little  milk,  one  quart  of  cream,  one 
quarter  of  a  pound  of  almonds ;  add  a  little  nutmeg 
and  cinnamon,  one  table-spoonful  of  rose-water,  and 
beat  well  together;  boil  an  hour  and  a  half;  serve 
with  melted  butter  and  sugar. 

SALEM    PUDDING. 

One  cup  of  molasses,  one  of  suet,  one  of  sour  milk, 
one  of  raisins,  three  and  a  half  cups  of  flour,  one  tea- 
spoonful  of  cloves  or  any  other  spices  you  like,  a  tea- 
spoonful  of  soda,  and  a  little  salt ;  steam  three  hours. 

SAGO    PUDDING. 

Soak  six  table-spoonfuls  of  sago  in  cold  water  ;  then 
boil  in  a  quart  of  milk ;  stir  in  one  cup  of  white  sugar, 
half  a  tea-cup  of  butter,  and  let  it  cool ;  beat  six  eggs, 
and  stir  in ;  season  with  lemon  or  nutmeg,   and  add 


144  EXCELSIOR   COOK  BOOK 

currants  or  raisins ;  lay  in  a  buttered  dish  and  bake 
three  quarters  of  an  hour.     It  may  be  served  cold. 

BAKED    APPLE    DUMPLINGS. 

Take  one  pint  of  apples  stewed,  four  eggs,  four 
ounces  of  butter,  nutmeg  or  lemon,  one  tea-cupful  of 
milk,  and  bread-crumbs  enough  to  make  a  batter ;  lay 
in  a  crust  and  bake. 

GERMAN"    PUDDING. 

Three  table-spoonfuls  of  butter,  one  cup  of  milk, 
one  of  sugar,  two  eggs,  two  tea-spoonfuls  of  cream  of 
tartar,  one  of  soda,  flour  enough  to  make  a  stiff  batter ; 
bake  three  quarters  of  an  hour ;  eat  with  sauce. 

BOILED    APPLE    DUMPLINGS. 

Make  a  paste  of  flour  and  water  ;  roll  out ;  put  the 
apples  in  the  center ;  close  up  and  tie  in  a  cloth,  and 
boil  two  hours. 

ANOTHER  WAY. 

Make  in  small  balls  and  put  just  water  enough  to 
cover,  and  boil  half  an  hour ;  serve  with  sauce ;  if  you 
have  a  steamer,  they  are  better  steamed. 

ANOTHER   WAY. 

Roll  out  the  paste  and  spread  on  the  apples,  as  you 
would  for  roUy-pooly  pudding  ;  then  roll  up  and  tie  in 
a  cloth,  and  boil  two  hours  and  a  half. 

A    NICE    PUDDING. 

One  quart  of  new  milk  scalded,  one  table-spoonful  of 
corn-starch,  the  yolks  of  six  eggs ;  season  with  vanilla 
or  lemon ;  when  cold,  beat  the  whites  with  half  a  cup 
of  sugar,  and  spread  over  the  pudding,  and  brown  in 
the  oven. 

BLUEBERRY    PUDDING. 

One  cup  of  milk,  one  cup  of  molases,  one  tea-spoon- 
ful of  cream  of  tartar,  one  egg,  half  a  tea-spoonful  of 
soda,  flour  enough  to  make  a  stiff  batter ;  stir  in  the 
berries ;  put  in  a  basin,  and  steam  it. 

S-WTSET    POTATO    PUDDING. 

Boil  a  pound  of  sweet  potatoes  very  tender,  and 
press  them  through  a  colander ;  add  half  a  dozen  eggs, 


Amy  housekeeper's  aid.  145 

three  quarterB  of  a  pound  of  fine  sugar,  three  quarters 
of  a  pound  of  butter,  a  glass  of  brandy,  nutmeg,  and 
lemon  rind ;  put  a  paste  in  a  dish,  and  bake ;  when 
done,  sprinkle  the  top  with  white  sugar. 

A  TEMPERANCE  PLUM  PUDDING. 
Mix  a  pint  of  molasses  with  a  pint  of  rich  milk,  eight 
eggs,  beat  light,  one  pound  of  flour,  half  a  pound  of 
brown  sugar  stirred  into  the  milk  and  molasses  ;  then 
add  a  pound  of  beef-suet  chopped  fine,  a  pound  of 
seeded  raisins,  a  pound  of  currants,  half  a  pound  of 
citron  ;  stir  until  thoroughly  mixed ;  take  a  cloth  and 
dip  in  boilin.ijc  water,  and  dredge  it  with  flour ;  pour 
the  mixture  in,  and  tie,  leaving  room  for  the  pudding 
to  swell ;  plaster  up  the  tying  place  with  a  little  flour 
mixed  with  water;  have  ready  a  kettle  of  boiling 
Avater;  put  in  and  boil  eight  hours;  keep  another 
kettle  over  with  water  to  turn  in  when  it  boils  down, 
for  should  it  be  filled  with  cold  water  it  would  make 
the  pudding  heavy.  Serve  with  cream  sweetened,  and 
nutmeg ;  what  is  left  can  be  fried  the  next  day. 

ORANGE  PUDDING. 

Beat  six  eggs  and  stir  into  a  tea-cupful  of  melted 
butter,  and  one  tea-cupful  of  sugar ;  grate  two  large 
oranges,  and  squeeze  out  the  juice,  which  add  with  a 
pint  of  cream ;  then  lay  in  a  rich  puff-paste  in  a  pud- 
ding-dish and  bake  like  a  custard.  Lemons  may  be 
used  the  same. 

A  NICE   APPLE   DUMPLING. 

One  pint  of  buttermilk,  half  a  tea-cupful  of  lard  or 
butter,  one  egg,  a  little  salt,  and  an  even  tea-spoonful 
of  soda,  with  flour  enough  to  make  a  stiff  batter.  Drop 
a  table-spoonful  of  butter  in  buttered  cups ;  put  in  an 
apple  after  paring,  cutting,  and  taking  out  the  core ; 
then  put  on  more  batter,  enough  to  cover  the  apples ; 
put  them  in  a  steamer  and  cook  one  hour. 

HASTY   PUDDING. 

Have  your  water  boiling  hot ;  put  in  salt  sufficient, 
for  if  it  lacks  in  this  respect  it  is  not  good.     Stir  in  In- 

1 


146  EXCELSIOR   COOK   BOOK 

dian  meal  until  half  thickened  ;  let  it  boil  a  few  min- 
utes ;  then  stir  in  more  meal,  but  be  careful  not  to  get 
it  too  thick,  as  it  will  boil  thicker.     It  must  boil  slow 

for  an  hour. 

TAPIOCA  PUDDING. 

To  one  tea-cupful  of  tapioca,  add  one  pint  of  water  ; 
soak  over  night.  In  the  morning,  add  three  pints  of 
milk,  and  add  two  well-beaten  eggs,  and  bake. 

FLOim  PUDDING. 

Three  pints  scalded  milk  thicken  to  a  thin  batter 
with  flour,  three  quarters  of  a  pound  of  butter  melted 
in  the  milk  with  a  little  salt,  eight  heaping  spoon- 
fuls of  sugar,  and  eight  eggs,  beaten  to  a  froth  separ- 
ately; flavor  with  lemon,  and  pour  into  plates  lined 
with  rich  paste.     Bake  slowly. 

■WHEAT    PUDDING. 

Take  one  quart  of  milk,  four  eggs,  one  pint  of  flour, 
a  little  salt ;  bake  quickly. 

BIRD'S   NEST   PUDDING. 

Make  a  batter  of  cream  and  flour,  a  little  salt  and 
saleratus.  Pare  and  slice  sour  apples  very  thin  ;  butter 
a  tin  and  put  some  of  the  batter  in  the  tin,  then  the 
apples,  and  cover  with  the  remainder  of  the  batter ; 
bake  three  quarters  of  an  hour. 

INDIAN  PUDDING. 

Scald  four  cups  of  Indian  meal,  add  one  cup  of  mo- 
lasses, two  cups  of  milk,  a  tea-cup  of  milk,  half  a  pound 
of  raisins,  four  eggs — or  two  will  do — and  spice.     Boil 

four  hours. 

GREEN   CORN   CAKE. 

Take  a  dozen  ears  of  sweet  corn  and  grate  it  off  the 
cob ;  add  a  little  salt,  one  egg^  a  table-spoonful  of  sug- 
ar ;  stir  it  well ;  then  butter  a  basin,  pour  in,  and  bake 
one  hour  in  a  hot  oven.  It  may  be  eaten  with  butter 
and  cream. 

NIM'S   PUFFS. 

Boil  one  pint  of  milk  with  half  a  pound  of  butter, 
stir  it  into  three  quarters  of  a  pound  of  floui',  until  it 


AND   housekeeper's   AID.  147 

will  not  stick  to  the  pot ;  let  it  cool ;  then  add  the  yolks 
of  nine  eggs  well  beaten,  lastly  the  whites ;  grease  your 
tin  cups  and  fill  half  full. 

CKANBERRY   PUDDING. 

Boil  a  pint  and  a  half  of  cranberries  in  a  little  water ; 
add  four  ounces  of  sugar  ;  let  them  boil  until  broken, 
and  form  a  jam ;  make  up  a  ball  of  it ;  cover  it  well 
with  rice ;  then  flour  a  piece  of  cloth,  and  tie  each  one 
up,  and  boil  one  hour.  Eat  with  a  sauce  of  butter  and 
sugar  stirred  to  a  cream. 

MAKING-  BREAD. 
There  is  no  cookery  so  conducive  to  the  health  and 
happiness  of  a  family,  as  good  bread,  and  nothing  more 
detrimental  than  sour  or  heavy  bread.  There  is  a  great 
difi'erence  in  wheat  flour ;  the  Western  flour,  if  pure,  is 
preferable  to  any  other.  "Winter  wheat  makes  better 
flour  than  spring  wheat,  as  the  latter  is  more  like  wheat 
that  has  grown ;  but  very  good  bread  may  be  made 
from  it  by  moulding  it  more,  or  making  it  harder.  If 
wheat  is  grown,  the  flour  should  be  scalded,  and  allow- 
ed to  cool,  before  putting  in  the  yeast,  as  heat  kills  the 
life  of  the  yeast.  Flour  should  always  be  sifted  before 
using.  If  the  directions  here  given  are  well  followed, 
any  person  can  make  good  bread.  In  the  first  place, 
they  should  supply  themselves  with  good  yeast.  Many 
persons  live  near  a  bakery  or  a  brewery,  where  they 
can  obtain  it  fresh,  when  wanted.  It  is  better  to  make 
home-made  yeast,  both  for  convenience  and  economy. 

YEAST    CAKES. 

Take  a  pint  of  dry  hops,  (not  over  a  year  old,  as  they 
lose  their  strength ;)  pour  on  two  quarts  of  water,  and 
add  two  potatoes  sliced  ;  boil  half  an  hour ;  then  strain 
the  liquor  on  Indian  meal,  sufficient  to  absorb  all  the 
water ;  stir  it  well,  and  when  lukewarm,  add  a  tea-cup- 
ful of  good  yeast,  or  one  cake,  previously  soaked  in 
warm  water ;  let  it  rise ;  then  add  a  small  tea-cupful  of 
brown  sugar,  a  table-spoonful  of  ginger,  and  roll  it  out 
about  half  an  inch  thick ;  cut  in  small  cakes,  and  put 
them  on  a  board  to  dry.     Be  careful  and  turn  them 


148  EXCELSIOR  COOK   BOOK 

every  day,  until  dry  enougli  to  put  in  a  bag.  Keep  in  a 
dry  place,  and  they  will  keep  good  three  months.  When 
used,  soak  in  lukewarm  water  a  few  minutes. 

ANOTHER  MODE. 

Boil  a  double  handful  of  hops  in  three  quarts  of  water 
down  to  one  quart ;  then  strain  into  a  quart  of  flour 
while  boiling  hot ;  when  cool,  add  half  a  pint  of  yeast ; 
let  it  rise,  and  thicken  with  Indian  meal  enough  to  roll 
out ;  then  cut  in  squares,  and  lay  them  on  a  board ;  turn 
every  day,  until  dry.  Put  in  a  bag,  and  hang  up  in  a 
cool,  dry  place.  When  used,  soak  in  warm  water  a  few 
minutes. 

SOFT    YEAST.    NO.  1. 

Boil  a  pint  of  hops  in  three  quarts  of  water,  until  re- 
duced to  three  pints  ;  strain  and  pour  back  in  your  ket- 
tle ;  make  smooth  one  tea-cupful  of  flour  with  cold  water ; 
then  stir  in  six  middling  sized  potatoes,  that  have  been 
boiled  and  mashed  fine  ;  let  it  stand  until  lukewarm ; 
then  strain  it  again,  and  add  a  cup  of  good  yeast,  and 
let  it  remain  where  it  will  \eep  warm ;  when  light,  add 
a  table-spoonful  of  salt,  the  same  of  sugar,  and  pour 
into  a  jar ;  set  it  in  a  cool  place.  When  used,  take  a  tea- 
cupful  for  three  loaves.  This  will  not  keep  long  with- 
out souring,  when  it  should  not  be  used.  It  will  keep 
longer  to  leave  out  the  potatoes,  in  which  case  more 
flour  must  be  added. 

POTATO   YEAST. 

Mash  half  a  dozen  peeled,  boiled  potatoes ;  make 
smooth  a  tea-cup  of  flour,  and  add  with  it  a  table- 
spoonful  of  salt.  Strain  through  a  colander,  and  add 
hot  water  until  it  is  the  consistency  of  batter ;  when 
lukewarm,  add  a  pint  of  good  yeast.  Let  it  stand  till 
it  rises ;  then  cork  tight  and  keep  in  a  cool  place. 
This  kind  of  yeast  is  nice ;  but  will  not  keep  sweet  as 
long  as  hoj)  yeast. 

SOFT   YEAST.    NO.   2. 

Pare  and  grate  six  large  potatoes ;  boil  a  large  hand- 
ful of  hops  in  two  quarts  of  water ;  strain  and  pour  on 
the  potatoes  while  boiling  hot ;  add  one  tea-cupful  of 


AND   housekeeper's   AID.  149 

brown  sugar,  and  when  sufficiently  cool,  put  in  a  cup.- 
ful  of  yeast ;  -let  it  rise,  and  then  put  in  a  jug  and  cork 
tight ;  keep  in  a  cool  place.  One  tea-cupful,  when 
new,  is  sufficient  for  four  loaves  of  bread. 

BAKER'S    YEAST. 

Two  ounces  of  hops,  with  nine  quarts  of  water, 
boiled  an  hour ;  when  cool,  add  seven  pounds  mashed 
potatoes,  one  pound  of  sugar,  two  ounces  of  carbonate 
soda,  half  an  ounce  spirits  of  wine,  one  poimd  of  flour, 
and  half  a  pint  brewer's  yeast. 

MILK  YEAST   BREAD. 

Take  one  tea-cupful  of  milk,  pour  in  two  of  boiling 
water ;  stir  in  flour  enough  to  make  a  batter  ;  if  the 
flour  is  poor,  put  in  a  little  saleratus.  Set  the  vessel 
in  a  kettle  of  warm  water,  quite  warm,  and  keep  them 
an  equal  temperature,  and  in  four  or  six  hours  they 
will  rise.  Make  a  hole  in  your  flour,  and  pour  in  your 
wetting,  which  should  be  one  third  milk,  the  rest  hot 
water ;  stir  to  a  batter,  then  add  the  yeast.  Stir  up 
and  let  it  remain  in  a  warm  j)lace  until  it  rises,  (which 
will  be  about  half  an  hour ;)  then  knead  it  quickly,  but 
not  too  stifl*,  and  put  it  on  tins.  Let  it  rise  again,  and 
bake  three  quarters  of  an  hour.  It  can  be  made  with- 
out sponging,  if  preferred.  For  biscuit,  use  sweet 
cream  for  wetting,  or  butter  and  water  ;  let  them  rise 
and  cut  out  with  a  cutter  ;  then  j'ise  and  again  bake. 
This  yeast  makes  very  white  bread. 

SALT    RISINa    BREAD 

is  made  in  the  same  way,  except  the  milk ;  a  tea-spoon- 
ful of  salt  is  added  as  a  substitute.  The  bread  must 
be  moulded  rather  harder.  Bran  yeast  may  be  made 
by  making  in  the  same  manner,  using  wheat  bran  in 
the  place  of  flour,  and  when  light,  strain  oft'  the  water, 

and  use  as  above. 

■WHEAT    BREAD. 

Make  a  hole  in  the  flour,  in  your  bread-tray  or  bowl, 
make  a  sponge  in  it  of  water  or  milk,  or  half  and  half, 
just  as  you  like,  and  add  your  yeast,  with  a  little  salt. 
In  the  morning  it  will  be  risen ;  then  mould,  kneading 
it  well — the  more  it  is  kneaded,  the  better  will  be  your 


150  EXCELSIOE   COOK   BOOK 

bread.  Let  it  rise  again,  and  mould  only  enough  to 
23ut  in  shape ;  lay  on  tins,  let  it  rise  fifteen  or  twenty 
minutes,  and  bake  in  a  moderate  oven  one  hour.  It  is 
a  good  plan  to  put  in  a  little  soda  or  saleratus,  when 
mixed  in  the  morning,  particularly  if  soft  yeast  is  used, 
to  prevent  any  sourness.  If  the  flour  has  been  scalded, 
or  if  potatoes  have  been  added,  it  will  require  fifteen 
minutes  longer  to  bake.  When  taken  from  the  oven, 
set  up  on  end,  with  a  clean  towel  underneath ;  cover 
up  with  a  cloth,  and  steam  ;  if  baked  hard,  it  will  soften 
the  crust.  Boiled,  mashed  potatoes,  and  a  little  sugar 
added,  is  a  great  improvement. 

EXCELSIOR    BREAD. 

Have  mashed  potatoes  for  dinner  the  day  you  wish 
to  bake,  or  rather  the  day  before  ;  save  a  pint,  and  pour 
boiling  water  on  them,  or  use  some  of  the  potato-water, 
which  is  better,  about  a  pint  is  sufficient ;  add  a  half 
tea-cupful  of  sugar,  and  one  large  yeast  cake,  previous- 
ly soaked,  or  yeast ;  let  it  rise,  and  before  going  to  bed, 
wet  up  your  sponge  with  water,  adding  the  yeast,  (af- 
ter straining  it.)  In  the  morning  it  will  be  light,  when 
it  must  be  moulded — the  more,  the  nicer  will  be  the 
bread ;  let  it  rise  again ;  then  make  it  into  loaves,  and 
when  light,  bake  as  above  directed.  Wet  the  top  of 
the  loaves  with  cold  water  before  baking. 

GRAHAM  OR  BROWN  BREAD.  NO.    1. 

This  is  made  of  unbolted  w^heat,  and  should  be  the 
best  kind  of  wheat  to  make  good  bread.  It  is  consid- 
ered more  healthy  than  any  other  bread,  particularly 
for  those  who  are  dyspeptic,  or  troubled  with  costive- 
ness.  Make  as  for  wheat  bread,  only  not  mould  so 
hard,  and  add  a  little  molasses  or  sugar,  and  bake  one 
to  two  hours. 

GRAHAM    BREAD.    NO.    2. 

Take  three  quarts  of  unbolted  wheat  flour,  one  quart 
of  warm  water,  one  tea-cupful  of  yeast,  one  of  molasses, 
or  without,  one  tea-spoonful  of  soda.  Let  it  rise,  and 
bake  one  hour. 


AND   HOUSEKEEPER'S   AID.  151 

BYE    BREAD 

must  be  made  the  same  as  wheat  bread,  only  it  must 
not  be  mixed  so  hard.  It  requires  a  longer  time  to  rise, 
and  must  be  baked  longer.  A  few  spoonfuls  of  short- 
ening adds  very  much  to  rye  bread. 

GRAHAM    BREAD.    NO.   3. 

One  quart  of  sour  milk,  a  cupful  of  molasses,  a  tea- 
spoonful  of  salt ;  thicken  with  unbolted  wheat  flour,  and 
lastly  add  a  tea-spoonful  of  soda ;  bake  quick,  one  hour. 
Nice  rye  may  be  ground  and  unbolted  like  wheat,  and 
made  the  same  as  Graham  bread. 

CREAM  OP  TARTAR  BREAD. 

Have  a  quart  of  lukewarm  milk,  make  a  stiff  batter  of 
wheat  flour ;  stir  in  four  tea-spoonfuls  of  cream  of  tartar, 
one  of  salt ;  add  two  tea-spoonfuls  of  soda,  dissolved  in 
half  a  cupful  of  warm  water ;  add  flour  enough  to  mould 
out,  quick  as  possible ;  make  in  two  loaves,  and  bake. 
Tartaric  acid  is  as  good  as  cream  of  tartar,  and  only 
one  spoonful  is  necessary. 

POTATO  BREAD. 

Take  mashed  potatoes,  and  run  through  a  colander ; 
then  add  two  thirds  more  flour  than  you  have  potatoes  ; 
wet  with  warm  milk  or  water,  and  add  a  cupful  of  yeast 
or  yeast  cake,  with  a  little  salt.  Make  stiffer  than  com- 
mon bread.  Be  careful  it  does  not  sour.  Bake  longer 
than  the  time  required  for  wheat  bread. 

INDIAN"    BREAD.    NO.    1. 

Take  sifted  Indian  meal  and  scald  with  either  boiling 
milk  or  water ;  when  lukewarm,  add  your  yeast,  and  a 
little  salt,  with  one  third  wheat  flour  or  rye.  If  you 
like  it  rich,  add  a  little  molasses,  and  a  few  spoonfuls  of 
shortening ;  knead  quite  soft,  and  let  it  rise.  Bake  in 
a  slow  oven  two  hours.  If  baked  in  a  brick  oven,  let  it 
remain  over  night. 

PUMPKIN    OR    SQUASH    BREAD 

is  made  in  the  same  way,  only  substituting  stewed  pump- 
kin or  squash,  instead  of  potato.  Or  it  may  be  made 
with  Indian  meal  and  pumpkin,  instead  of  flour. 


152  EXCELSIOR  COOK   BOOK 

APPLE    BREAD. 

Make  a  sponge  as  for  wheat  bread,  and  add  stewed, 
strained  aj^ples  in  proportion  to  one  part  apples  to  two 
parts  flour.  Put  on  tins,  and  let  it  rise  as  wlieat  bread ; 
then  bake  one'hour. 

CORW    BREAD.    NO.   2. 

Take  two  quarts  of  Indian  meal,  a  pint  of  bread  sponge, 
water  enough  to  wet  it ;  mould  in  half  a  pint  of  wheat 
flour,  a  table-spoonful  of  salt.  Let  it  rise,  and  knead 
a  second  time.  Bake  an  hour  and  a  half.  Prize  award- 
ed for  this  bread. 

CORN    BREAD.    NO.   3. 

Take  two  quarts  of  corn  meal,  wet  with  three  pints 
of  warm  water ;  add  a  table-spoonful  of  yeast,  the  same 
of  salt,  two  of  sugar ;  let  it  stand  in  a  warm  place  five 
hours  ;  then  add  one  and  a  half  tea-cupfuls  of  flour,  and 
half  a  pint  of  warm  water ;  let  it  rise  again,  an  hour 
and  a  half;  then  pour  it  into  a  well -greased  pan,  and 
when  light,  bake  in  a  hot  oven.  It  is  best  cold.  Prize 
bread. 

CORN    BREAD.    NO.    4. 

Take  three  tea-cupfuls  of  corn-meal,  one  of  wheat 
flour,  two  table-spoonfuls  of  sugar,  two  tea-spoonfuls 
of  cream  of  tartar ;  mix  well  while  dry.  Dissolve  one 
tea-spoonful  of  soda  in  warm  water ;  mix  to  a  thin  bat- 
ter, and  bake  in  a  quick  oven  three  fourths  of  an  hour. 
Prize  loaf. 

BREAKFAST    CORN    BREAD. 

Scald  the  meal  at  night,  and  when  cool,  add  a  spoon- 
ful of  yeast,  two  of  shortening,  the  same  of  molasses,  a 
little  salt.  Stir  well,  and  in  the  morning  pour  on  a  but- 
tered tin,  and  bake. 

BRO^WN    BREAD. 

Take  one  quart  of  buttermilk,  one  of  sweet  milk ; 
thicken  with  half  Indian  meal,  and  half  rye  flour  or 
wheat ;  add  salt  and  molasses,  if  wished ;  a  heaping  tea- 
spoonful  of  soda. 

BROWN   BREAD.    NO.   2. 

Take  one  quart  of  corn-meal,  pour  on  boiling  water 


AND   housekeeper's   AID.  153 

or  milk ;  when  cool  add  a  cup  of  yeast,  two  spoon- 
fuls of  molasses,  a  little  salt,  and  orie  quart  of  rye  flour, 
wet  with  milk,  and  stir  with  a  spoon.  Pour  in  tins  or 
pans  to  rise.     Bake  slow. 

CORN   LOAF. 

Take  one  pint  sweet  milk,  half  a  pint  buttermilk  or 
sour  milk,  half  a  cup  of  butter,  one  of  molasses,  three 
eggs,  one  of  wheat  flour,  a  little  salt,  corn-meal  to  make 
a  thick  batter,  one  tea-spoonful  of  soda.  Bake  two 
hours  slowly. 

CURKANT   BREAD. 

Take  some  light  sponge  or  bread-dough,  enough  for 
two  loaves  of  bread ;  add  half  a  j^ound  of  butter,  one 
of  brown  sugar,  one  of  Zante  currants,  and  caraway 
seed,  if  you  like,  or  a  table-spoonful  of  allspice.  Put 
in  pans,  and  when  light,  bake  one  hour  in  a  slow  oven. 
Eat  with  butter. 

RAISED    BISCUIT.    NO.    1. 

Take  some  light  bread-dough  suflicient  for  two 
square  tins  of  biscuit,  mould  in  four  ounces  of  butter,  and 
let  it  rise  again,  and  when  light,  pick  up  small  bunches 
of  dough  and  drop  on  buttered  tins ;  let  it  rise  a  few 
minutes,  then  bake  slowly. 

RAISED   BISCUIT.    WO.   2. 

Warm  a  pint  of  sweet  milk,  a  piece  of  butter  the 
size  of  an  egg,  a  table-spoonful  of  sugar,  two  of  good 
yeast,  the  white  of  an  egg  well  beaten ;  make  a  hole 
in  your  flour  and  stir  up  till  thick  as  batter.  Set  it 
where  it  will  keep ;  when  light,  mould  over  and  let  it 
rise  again ;  then  pick  up  small  pinches  of  the  dough, 
and  put  on  tins ;  when  light,  bake. 

RAISED  BISCUIT.    NO.   3. 

Make  a  sponge  with  one  quart  of  water,  one  yeast- 
cake,  a  little  salt ;  when  light,  add  half  a  tea-cupful  of 
melted  butter,  one  egg,  and  knead  well ;  but  not  too 
stiff  with  flour.  Let  it  rise,  and  then  make  into  bis- 
cuit, and  bake  on  tins  as  directed. 


164  EXCELSIOH  COOK  BOOK 

RUSK.    NO.    1. 

Take  one  pint  of  milk  lukewarm,  half  a  cup  of  sug- 
ar, half  a  cup  of  butter,  a  pint  of  light  sponge,  two 
eggs  or  without,  a  little  salt,  and  flour  enough  to  mix. 
Let  it  rise,  and  follow  the  directions  as  given  for  bis- 
cuit. 

HUSK.    NO.   2. 

Take  one  pint  of  warm  milk,  one  tea-cupful  of  yeast 
or  one  yeast-cake ;  make  a  sponge,  and  when  light, 
add  half  a  cupful  of  butter,  one  of  sugar,  spice  if  you 
like,  and  flour  to  make  stifl"  like  biscuit.  Let  it  rise, 
then  mould  into  cakes  the  size  of  biscuit ;  put  on  but- 
tered tins,  and  when  light,  bake  half  an  hour.  Mix 
milk  with  the  yolk  of  an  egg  and  rub  on  top  as  soon 
as  baked. 

EOLLS.    NO.   1. 

Take  three  poimds  of  flour,  one  quart  of  milk,  six 
ounces  of  butter,  warmed  in  the  milk,  a  tea-cupful  of 
yeast,  or  a  large  yeast-cake,  and  a  little  salt.  Let  it 
rise,  then  mould  and  rise  again ;  then  form  into  rolls 
and  lay  on  tins ;  when  light,  bake  them. 

EOLLS.    NO.   2. 

Dissolve  two  ounces  of  butter  in  a  pint  of  new  milk, 
two  table-spoonfuls  of  yeast,  and  the  well-beaten  whites 
of  two  eggs.  Make  a  hole  in  the  middle  of  the  flour 
and  mix  into  a  sponge  with  a  little  salt ;  when  light, 
work  one  way  for  fifteen  minutes ;  then  form  into  rolls 
and  let  them  rise  before  baking. 

BEENTFOED   EOLLS. 

Take  two  pounds  of  flour,  four  ounces  of  butter,  two 
well-beaten  eggs,  salt,  two  table-spoonfuls  of  yeast, 
and  two  ounces  of  sugar;  mix  with  sufficient  milk  or 
water  to  make  a  sponge ;  keep  it  warm  until  it  rises ; 
then  mould  and  make  into  rolls.;  let  it  rise  again,  then 
bake. 

ENGLISH  EOLLS. 

Take  one  quart  of  flour,  four  ounces  of  butter,  two 
.well-beaten  eggs,  two  table-spoonfuls  of  sugar,  two  of 
yeast.     Pour  this  into  the  center  of  the  flom* ;  add  a 


AND  housekeeper's  AID.  155 

pint  of  warm  milk ;  beat  it  well  with  the  hand  until 
it  comes  off  without  sticking.  Set  it  in  a  warm  place 
to  rise ;  then  mould  out,  and  put  on  tins  ;  when  light, 

FRENCH   ROLLS. 

Take  a  pint  of  warm  water,  one  yeast-cake,  a  little 
salt,  one  well-beaten  egg;  make  a  dough  of  moderate 
stiffness.  Beat  it  well,  but  do  not  knead  it;  let  it  rise, 
and  bake  on  tins. 

HARD   BISCUIT. 

Take  two  pounds  of  flour,  rub  a  pound  and  a  half 
of  it  with  two  ounces  of  butter,  two  well-beaten  eggs, 
one  spoonful  of  salt;  sweet  milk  to  wet  the  whole. 
Pound  it  out  about  half  an  inch  thick ;  cut  m  small 
cakes  and  put  on  buttered  tins.  Bake  in  a  moderate 
oven  three  quarters  of  an  hour. 

SALLY   LUNN. 

Take  one  pint  of  new  milk,  half  a  tea-cup  of  butter 
warmed  together,  three  well-beaten  eggs,  half  a  cup 
of  yeast  and  a  little  salt,  flour  sufiicient  to  make  a  bat- 
ter like  pound  cake ;  stir  well ;  let  it  rise  ;^  then  bake  m 
a  square  tin,  or  make  it  stiff  and  bake  like  rolls.  A 
few  mashed  potatoes  may  be  added,  if  you  like. 

NEWPORT  CAKE,  OR  SALLY  LUNN. 
One  cup  of  sweet  milk,  one  of  sugar,  two  eggs,  half 
a  cup  of  butter,  two  tea-spoonfuls  of  cream  of  tartar, 
in  one  quart  of  flour,  one  tea-spoonful  of  soda  m  halt 
a  cup  of  milk.  The  butter  put  in  last.  Bake  half  an 
hour  and  send  to  the  table  hot.     Eat  Avith  butter. 

SARATOGA  BREAKFAST  CAKE. 

One  quart  of  sour  milk,  two  eggs,  one  table-spoon- 
ful of  butter,  a  little  salt,  one  third  wheat  flour,  two 
thirds  corn-meal  to  a  stiff  batter,  two  table-spoons  ot 
molasses,  one  tea-spoon  of  soda.     Bake  in  a  quick  oven. 

INDIAN   BREAKFAST   CAKE, 

Take  two  cups  of  corn-meal,  half  a  cup  of  flour,  three 
table-spoonfuls  of  molasses,  one  tea-spoonful  of  salt,  hve 


156  EXCELSIOR   COOK   BOOK 

spoonfuls  of  melted  lard ;  add  cold  water  or  sweet 
milk  enough  to  make  a  batter,  half  a  tea-spoonful  of 
soda.  Just  before  bakhig,  stir  in  three  tea-spoonfuls 
of  vinegar. 

HOE    CAKE. 

Scald  one  quart  of  meal  to  a  batter  with  water ;  add 
two  table-spoonfuls  of  butter,  two  tea-spoonfuls  of  salt. 
Bake  on  a  board  before  the  fire. 

COKN  CAKE  COOKED  BY  STEAM. 

Take  a  pint  of  sour  cream,  and  stir  in  a  handful  of 
wheat  flour  and  corn-meal ;  enough  to  make  a  stiff  bat- 
ter ;  add  salt  and  one  tea-spoonful  of  soda.  Put  in  a 
basin  and  steam  one  hour  or  until  done.  Eat  cream 
and  sugar  on  it. 

A    COMMON"   JOHNNY    CAKE. 

Take  one  quart  of  rich  buttermilk,  one  tea-cupful  of 
flour,  and  sufficient  Indian  meal  to  make  a  stiff  batter, 
two  table -spoonfuls  of  molasses,  a-  little  salt,  and  one 
tea-spoonful  of  soda.     Bake  three  quarters  of  an  hour. 

GIlEEN"-CORN   CAKE. 

Take  a  dozen  ears  of  green  corn,  grate  it  off  the  cob ; 
add  salt,  one  egg,  a  table-spoonful  of  sugar ;  stir  well ; 
then  pour  into  a  buttered  basin ;  one  hour  in  a  hot 
oven.  Eat  with  butter  and  cream.  Sweet  corn  is  the 
best. 

CKACKERS   FKOM   BREAD-DOUGH. 

Strain  a  cupful  of  lukewarm  water  with  a  tea-spoon- 
ful of  soda  dissolved  in  it,  on  a  quart  of  raised  dough  ; 
add  a  little  salt  and  two  thirds  of  a  tea-cupful  of  butter ; 
work  well  together ;  pull  in  small  pieces ;  sprinkle  flour 
over,  and  mould  up  until  it  becomes  stiff;  then  mould 
and  roll  very  thin,  and  cut  into  crackers;  bake  on  but- 
tered tins. 

BUTTER    CRACKERS. 

Rub  four  ounces  butter  with  one  pound  of  flour ; 
dissolve  a  tea-spoonful  of  soda  in  a  little  milk  ;  strain 
into  the  flour ;  add  a  little  salt,  and  milk  sufficient 
to  roll  out.     Beat  it  well  with  a  rolling-pin  and  roll 


AND   housekeeper's   AID.  157 

out ;  repeat  several  times.  Roll  out  thin  and  cut  in 
small  crackers.  Bake  until  hard  and  crispy,  in  a  mod- 
erate oven. 

SODA   BISCUIT. 

To  one  quart  of  flour,  add  two  tea-spoonfuls  of  cream 
of  tartar,  and  a  little  salt ;  mix  well  in  the  flour ;  dis- 
solve a  tea-spoonful  of  soda  in  suflicient  milk  or  cream 
to  wet  the  flour ;  if  milk  is  used  instead  of  cream,  add 
a  piece  of  butter  the  size  of  an  hen's  egg ;  mix  soft 
and  bake  ten  minutes. 

BUTTERMILK   BISCUIT. 

Take  one  quart  of  rich  buttermilk  or  sour  milk,  a 
little  salt,  two  thirds  of  a  cupful  of  shortening ;  put 
in  the  middle  of  your  flour  and  stir  to  a  batter ; 
then  add  a  tea-spoonful  of  soda  dissolved,  and  mix 
soft ;  roll  out  and  cut  in  round  cakes.  Bake  fifteen 
minutes. 

CREAM   BISCUIT. 

Take  one  quart  of  sour  cream,  a  little  salt ;  stir  up 
with  flour ;  then  add  a  tea-spoonful  of  soda,  and  add 
more  flour,  enough  to  roll  out ;  cut  in  round  cakes  and 
bake. 

RICE    BISCUIT. 

Take  one  and  a  half  pints  of  scalding  milk,  half  a  pint 
of  ground  rice ;  cook  a  few  minutes  ;  when  lukewarm, 
add  half  a  yeast-cake  or  other  yeast,  half  a  tea-spoon- 
ful of  soda,  and  two  quarts  of  flour ;  make  a  sponge 
by  adding  a  little  lukewarm  milk  or  water.  Let  it 
rise  and  mould  ;  when  raised,  add  a  tea-cupful  of  but- 
ter ;  put  in  tins,  and  when  light,  bake. 

STRAA;^7■BERRY    SHORT    CAKE. 

Make  a  biscuit  of  sour  cream  or  sour  milk  and  but- 
ter ;  when  baked,  split  open  and  spread  on  butter, 
strawberries,  and  sugar ;  then  put  together  again.  It 
should  be  made  thin. 

RYE   CAKE. 

Take  one  and  a  half  tea-cupfuls  of  buttermilk,  two 
table-spoonfuls  of  molasses,  two  table-spoonfuls  of  In- 


158  EXCELSIOR   COOK  BOOK. 

dian  meal,  a  little  salt,  one  tea-spoonful  of  saleratns. 
Thicken  with  rye  flour  and  bake  an  hour.  Cream  and 
eggs  is  an  improvement. 

A    KICH    JOHWIfY    CAKE.    NO.   1. 
Take  one  quart  of  buttermilk,  one  tea-cupful  of  cream, 
three  eggs,  one  cup  of  flour,  half  a  cup  of  molasses,  a 
little  salt,  Indian  meal  to  make  a  batter,  lastly,  a  tea- 
spoonful  of  soda.     Bake  on  a  tin  three  quarters  of  an 

hour. 

A    RICH    JOHNIfY    CAKE.    NO.   2. 

Take  one  quart  of  buttermilk,  half  a  cup  of  cream, 
half  a  cup  of  suet,  cut  fine,  half  a  cup  of  molasses,  one 
egg,  a  little  salt,  one  tea-spoonful  of  soda,  to  be  put  in 
last,  one  cup  of  flour,  and  sufficient  Indian  meal  to 
thicken  it.  Bake  as  above.  The  suet  is  a  great  im- 
provement. 

RYE    CAKE. 

Take  one  quart  of  sour  milk,  half  a  tea-cup  of  short- 
ening, a  little  salt,  a  tea-spoon  of  soda,  mix  soft,  roll 
out,  and  cut  in  round  cakes.  Bake  in  a  hot  oven.  They 
may  be  made  in  a  stiff  batter,  and  dropped  on  tins, 
then  baked. 

MUFFINS.    NO.  1. 

One  pint  of  milk,  flour  to  make  a  stifl"  batter,  a  table- 
spoonful  of  yeast,  and  a  little  salt ;  make  over  night, 
and  in  the  morning  bake  in  plate  of  rings  or  muffin- 
cups  in  a  brisk  oven. 

MUFFINS.    NO     2. 

One  quart  of  rich  milk  or  cream,  half  a  tea-cupful  of 
yeast,  five  eggs ;  a  lump  of  butter,  the  size  of  a  hen's 
egg,  if  you  do  not  use  cream ;  add  flour  enough  to 
make  a  stifl"  batter ;  add  a  little  salt.  Let  it  rise,  and 
bake  in  rings,  or  on  a  griddle. 

MUFFINS.    NO.  3. 

One  quart  of  flour,  two  table-spoonfuls  of  butter,  two 

eggs,  half  a  cup  of  yeast,  a  little  salt,  lukewarm  milk, 

sufficient  to  wet  the  whole.     Let  it  rise,  and  bake  in 

rings  or  cups. 

MUFFINS.    NO.   4. 

One  cup  of  flour,  one  of  milk,  one  egg,  a  little  salt,  a 


AND   housekeeper's   AID.  159 

table-spoonfal  of  butter,  or  if  you  have  cream,  use  it 
instead  of  milk,  and  no  butter  will  be  required.  Bake 
in  a  quick  oven  or  in  rings. 

MUFFINS.    NO.   5. 

One  quart  of  milk,  one  cup  of  butter  warmed,  four 
eggs,  two  table-spoonfuls  of  yeast,  a  little  salt,  flour 
sufficient  for  a  batter.  Mix  in  the  mornings  and  bake 
for  tea. 

MUSH    MUFFINS. 

Take  hasty  pudding  when  cold ;  add  one  quart  of 
milk,  three  eggs,  salt,  two  table-sjDOonfuls  of  butter, 
jflour  to  thicken.     Bake  in  rings  or  fry  on  a  griddle. 

CKUMPETS.    NO.   1. 

Take  a  quart  bowl  of  raised  dough,  a  tea-cupful  of 
butter,  three  eggs,  a  little  salt,  milk  to  make  a  batter. 
Bake  in  a  hot  buttered  pan  half  an  hour. 

CKUMPETS.    NO.   2. 

Warm  one  quart  of  sweet  milk ;  add  half  a  tea-cup- 
ful of  yeast,  salt,  stir  in  flour  to  make  a  batter ;  let  it 
rise ;  then  add  half  a  tea-cupful  of  butter.  Bake  as 
muffins. 

WAFFLES.    NO.   1. 

Beat  two  eggs ;  take  one  pint  of  milk,  one  table- 
spoonful  of  butter,  or  half  a  tea-cup  of  cream,  a  little 
salt,  flour  sufficient  to  make  a  stifi"  batter.  Bake  in  waf- 
fle-irons. Eat  melted  butter  and  sugar  on  them.  Ma- 
ple syrup  is  very  nice  for  these. 

WAFFLES.    NO.   2. 

Warm  one  quart  of  sweet  milk,  six  ounces  of  butter ; 
add  half  a  tea-cupful  of  yeast,  a  little  salt,  four  well-beaten 
eggs  ;  let  it  rise  ;  when  light,  heat  the  waffle-irons,  but- 
ter them,  and  put  in  some  batter.  When  baked,  put 
on  a  plate,  and  bake  until  all  are  baked ;  butter  as  you 
take  out ;  strew  with  sugar,  and  send  to  the  table  hot. 

FRITTERS.    NO.    1. 

Take  one  cupful  of  sour  cream,  a  little  salt,  one  beaten 
egg ;  stir  in  flour  sufficient  to  tliicken ;  add  a  little  soda, 


160  EXCELSIOR  COOK  BOOK 

dissolved,  and  drop  a  spoonful  at  a  time  into  hot  lard, 
until  a  nice  brown.  Eat  with  any  kind  of  sauce  you 
like. 

FBITTERS.    NO.   2. 

Stir  one  pint  of  flour  smooth  -with  water ;  j)our  it 
into  one  pint  of  boiling  water ;  when  cool,  add  five  eggs, 
beat  light ;  a  table-spoonful  of  butter.     Fry  in  hot  lard. 

FKITTEBS.    K"0.    3. 

Make  a  paste  as  for  pies,  butter  is  preferable  to  lard 
for  this  purpose ;  roll  thin,  and  cut  out ;  then  fill  with 
marmalade  or  preserves  of  any  kind ;  roll  up  well,  and 
fry  in  hot  lard. 

APPLE    FRITTERS. 

Take  a  pint  of  milk,  a  table-spoonful  of  cream,  two 
eggs,  a  little  salt,  pare  and  slice  your  apples,  and  stir 
into  your  milk,  with  sufficient  flour  to  make  a  batter  ; 
add  a  little  soda.  Fry  in  lard,  and  serve  with  pudding- 
sauce. 

ANOTHER. 

Make  a  batter  of  eggs  and  flour ;  pare  and  slice  sour 
apples  ;  stir  in,  and  fry  in  hot  lard  five  minutes. 

FRITTERS,    wo.   4. 

Take  one  quart  of  milk,  seven  well-beaten  eggs  ;  stir 
in  gradually  flour  enough  to  make  a  thick  batter ;  beat 
well,  and  fry  in  boiling  lard  a  spoonful  at  a  time.  Ap- 
ples may  be  chopped  fine,  and  stirred  into  the  batter,  if 
wished. 

A    NICE    WAY    TO    PREPARE    APPLES    FOR 
FRITTERS. 

Pare  and  slice  them ;  put  them  in  layers  in  a  dish, 
with  sugar  and  nutmeg  strewed  over ;  then  pour  on 
brandy  enough  to  cover  them;  let  them  remain  four  or 
five  hours. 

MOCK    OYSTER    FRITTERS. 

Grate  six  ears  of  corn ;  add  one  egg,  one  table-spoon- 
ful of  cream  or  butter,  one  of  flour,  pepper  and  salt. 
Fry  as  directed. 

OYSTER    FRITTERS. 

Make  a  batter  of  the  oyster  liquor  strained,  two  eggs, 


AND   housekeeper's   AID.  161 

and  flour ;  stir  in  the  oysters,  and  fry  in  hot  hard  or 
butter ;  put  one  oyster  in  a  fritter.  Clam  fritters  made 
in  the  same  way. 

rKITTERS.   wo.   5. 

Scald  a  pint  of  milk ;  when  cool,  add  three  beaten 
eg2:s,  a  little  salt ;  dip  out  Avith  a  spoon ;  roll  in  flour, 
and  fry  in  lard.  Eat  with  sauce.  Stir  in  sufficient  flour 
to  make  a  batter  while  the  milk  is  hot. 

MOCK    OYSTER    FRITTEBS.    NO.  2. 

Grate  a  dozen  ears  of  sweet  corn,  the  yolks  of  three 
eggs,  the  whites  of  four,  beaten  separately,  one  cup  of 
milk,  salt,  a  table-spoonful  of  flour ;  drop  in  hot  lard  as 
above. 

RICE    PUFFS. 

One  pint  of  rice-flour,  and  sufficient  boiling  water  or 
milk  to  make  a  thick  batter  ;  beat  four  eggs,  and  when 
cool,  mix  and  salt ;  drop  this  mixture  into  hot  lard. 

GRIDDLE    CAKES. 

BUCKAATHEAT    CAKES. 

Take  two  quarts  of  warm  water ;  add  a  yeast  cake, 
some  salt ;  stir  in  flour  to  make  a  batter.  A  handful  of 
Indian  meal  is  nice  to  make  them  brown,  or  a  cupful  of 
milk ;  bake  on  a  griddle.  Keep  some  in  the  jar  to  raise 
with  after  baking.  If  not  quite  light,  add  a  cupful  of 
buttermilk,  and  a  tea-spoonful  of  soda,  just  before  bak- 
ino-.  Another  way  is  to  stir  them  up  with  buttermilk 
an'd  saleratus ;  then  fry  as  above.  Half  buttermilk  and 
half  water  is  better,  but  they  require  soda  every  time 
baking. 

*  FLANNEL    CAKES. 

Put  two  table-spoonfuls  of  butter  into  a  quart  of  milk ; 
warm  it  until  the  butter  is  melted ;  add  four  eggs,  and 
fitii*  in  with  half  a  pound  of  flour,  or  sufficient  to  make 
a  batter,  two  spoonfuls  of  yeast,  salt.  Let  it  rise,  and 
bake  on  a  griddle. 

■WHEAT    CAKES.    NO.   1. 

One  quart  of  rich  milk,  four  eggs,  a  little  salt,  flo.ur 
to  make  a  stiff  batter  ;  grease  the  griddle,  and  put  on  a 


162  EXCELSIOR   COOK   BOOK 

spoonful  at  a  time  ;  when  brown,  turn  over  and  brown 
on  the  other  side. 

•WHEAT    CAKES.    NO.   2. 

Take  one  quart  of  buttermilk,  half  a  pint  of  cream,  a 
little  salt  and  flour  to  make  a  batter,  a  tea-spoonful  of 
8oda.  Bake  as  above.  If  you  have  not  the  cream,  put 
in  a  little  butter. 

EXCELSIOR    WHEAT    CAKES. 

Take  one  tea-cupful  of  sour  cream,  one  pint  of  sweet 

milk,  a  little  salt,  and  flour  to  make  a  smooth  batter. 

Bake  on  a  griddle. 

RICE    CAKES. 

Boil  a  large  cup  of  rice  until  soft ;  beat  two  eggs, 
two  spoonfuls  of  butter,  salt  and  flour  to  make  a  batter. 
Bake  on  a  griddle. 

BREAD    CAKES. 

Stale  bread,  soaked  in  cold  water  until  soft,  with  two 
eggs,  and  a  cupful  of  rich  milk,  a  little  salt ;  thicken 
with  wheat  flour,  and  fry  on  a  griddle.  Add  a  little 
soda  just  before  baking. 

RYE    CAKES    OR    GRAHAM. 

Make  as  buckwheat  cakes,  adding  a  little  corn-meal, 
sour  milk  and  soda. 

POTATO  CAKES. 

Take  mashed  potatoes ;  mix  with  milk,  eggs,  flour, 
salt,  and  soda.     They  are  excellent.    Fry  on  a  griddle. 

CORN"    CAKES. 

Grate  ten  ears  of  sweet  corn  ;  wash  the  cobs  in  a  tea- 
cupful  of  milk ;  beat  three  eggs,  and  stir  in  with  two 
spoonfuls  of  flour ;  add  salt,  and  bake  on  a  griddle. 

INDIAN    CAKES. 

Take  one  pint  of  sour  milk,  one  of  sweet ;  equal  parts 
of  flour  and  meal,  salt,  and  soda ;  two  eggs  may  be 
added,  if  wished.     Fry  slowly  on  a  griddle. 

INDIAN    GRIDDLE    CAKES. 

Scald  at  night  half  the  quantity  of  meal  you  are  going 
to  use ;  add  the  rest  with  cold  water,  making  it  the  con- 


AND   HOUSEEEEPER'S   AID.  163 

sistency  of  batter ;  add  a  little  salt,  and  set  it  to  rise,  it 
will  require  no  yeast.  In  the  morning  the  cakes  will 
be  light  and  crispy.     Fry  on  a  griddle. 

CREAM    CAKES. 

Take  one  pint  of  cream,  the  yolks  of  three  eggs  beat- 
en, flour  to  thicken,  like  pancakes ;  bake  in  the  oven  on 
a  greased  tin  or  on  a  griddle. 

"WHEAT    CAKES.    NO.   3. 

Take  a  tea-cupful  of  Indian  mush,  one  pint  and  a  half 
of  rich  milk  ;  add  a  little  salt,  and  stir  in  wheat  flour  till 
thick  enough  to  bake  on  a  griddle. 

FRUIT    CAKES. 

Make  wheat  cakes,  and  when  baked,  spread  jelly, 
jam  or  any  kind  of  preserves  or  fruit  on,  and  roll  up. 
Strew  sugar  over  them,  and  serve  hot. 

ENGLISH  SEED-CAKE. 
Take  one  pint  of  warm  milk,  one  tea-cupful  of  butter 
melted  in  the  milk,  one  cup  of  yeast,  two  cups  sugar, 
three  eggs  ;  make  into  a  light  sponge  ;  when  light,  add 
one  nutmeg,  caraway  seed,  and  Zante  currants  ;  mix 
into  a  stifl"  dough  to  handle  on  the  board,  then  put  back 
and  let  it  rise  again,  and  when  very  light  mould  into 
rusks,  or  a  loaf,  with  suflicient  flour  to  handle  it  on  the 
board.  Let  it  rise  in  the  baking-pans,  and  bake  in  a 
moderate  oven.  It  can  be  put  to  rise  over  night,  and 
in  the  morning  add  the  spices. 

A    CHEESE-CAKE. 

Stir  four  ounces  of  butter,  the  same  of  sugar,  to  a 
cream,  beat  four  eggs  light,  scald  half  a  pint  of  milk ; 
when  it  comes  to  aboil,  add  half  the  beaten  eggs,  and 
stir  frequently  until  it  becomes  curd ;  then  throw  in 
two  ounces  of  grated  bread,  and  stir  all  together ;  next 
stir  in  gradually  the  butter  and  sugar,  and  the  remain- 
ing egg ;  add,  by  degrees,  a  table-spoonful  of  mixed 
brandy  and  wine,  a  tea-spoonful  of  rose-water,  cinna- 
mon and  nutmeg  to  the  taste ;  sprinkle  two  ounces  of 
currants  with  flour,  and  put  in  ;  mix  all  together,  and 


164  EXCELSIOR   COOK   BOOK 

pour  the  mixture  into  a  square  tin,  lined  with  a  puff- 
paste,  which  must  be  made  first ;  then  sprinkle  two 
ounces  more  of  currants  with  flour,  and  lay  on  top. 
Have  a  flap  of  paste  left  at  each  side,  in  the  shape  of  a 
half-moon ;  cut  slips  in  these  flaps  and  turn  over  the 
tojj.     Raisins  may  be  used  instead  of  currants. 

MILK    TOAST. 

Scald  a  quart  of  rich  milk,  (not  boil,)  put  in  a  little 
butter,  sugar  to  the  taste,  add  a  little  salt.  Have  ready 
in  a  dish  eight  slices  of  bread  toasted,  turn  the  milk  on 
and  cover  it.     Send  to  the  table. 

CUSTARDS,    ETC. 

Custards  are  always  eaten  cold,  and  are  served  up  m 
small  cups,  or  poured  over  fruit  tarts  or  sponge  cake. 
The  flavoring  may  be  added  to  suit  the  taste.  Vanilla, 
lemon,  orange,  and  nutmegs,  are  all  nice  for  custards. 
A  portion  of  cream  makes  custards  nicer  than  all  milk, 
and  will  not  require  as  many  eggs.  When  made  as 
cream,  and  eaten  raw,  the  whites  should  never  be  put 
in,  but  can  be  used  for  silver  cake.  One  mode  of  mak- 
ing is  to  measure  the  number  of  cups  which  you  wish 
to  fill,  and  use  nearly  the  quantity  of  milk  ;  then  sim- 
mer it  upon  the  fire  until  beginning  to  boil,  then  add 
half  an  ounce  of  sugar  to  each  cup,  with  lemon-peel  or 
bay  leaves  ;  then  take  the  yolk  of  an  egg  to  each  cup, 
beat  them  well,  and  pour  in  the  milk ;  fill  the  cups, 
place  in  boiling  water  until  the  custard  becomes  firm. 
Custards  are  nicer  if  the  eggs  are  strained  after  beating. 

A    PLAIlSr    CUSTABD. 

Beat  four  eggs  until  light,  two  table-spoonfuls  of  sug- 
ar, a  little  salt,  add  one  quart  of  milk,  nutmeg,  and 
lemon ;  more  eggs  can  be  added,  if  wished.  Bake  in  an 
earthen  dish,  and  set  it  in  a  tin  of  water  in  the  oven  ; 
bake  slowly ;  try  with  a  spoon.  It  must  not  remain  in 
the  oven  longer  than  it  sets,  for  if  it  wheys,  it  is  not  good. 

A    BOILED    CUSTABD. 

Six  eggs  to  one  quart  of  milk,  nearly  a  tea-cupful  of 
white  sugar,  a  little  salt ;  beat  the  eggs  Avell,  and  stir 


AND   housekeeper's   AID.  165 

all  together  ;  then  piit  in  a  small  tin  pail,  (which  is  most 
convenient  to  use  for  the  purpose,)  and  set  m  a  kettle  ot 
boiling  water ;  let  it  remain  until  it  begins  to  thicken, 
stirring  it  constantly,  that  it  may  not  adhere  to  the  pail ; 
then  season  with  vanilla  or  lemon,  just  as  you  like,  and 

turn  in  cups. 

SNO^W    CUSTAKD. 

Take  eight  eggs,  and  one  quart  of  milk,  a  gill  of 
cream,  a  little  salt ;  flavor  with  lemon  and  nutmeg,  and 
boil  as  above  ;  then  pour  into  a  dish,  with  a  whip  over 
the  whole.     Serve  as  you  Avould  a  pudding. 

A    BICH    CUSTARD. 

Boil  a  pint  of  milk  with  a  stick  of  cinnamon,  and 
lemon-peel ;  turn  in  a  pint  of  cream,  and  eight  eggs, 
well  beaten  ;  stir  well  together,  and  boil  in  hot  water, 
always  stiring  the  same  way.  Add  the  sugar  before 
boiling. 

A    VERY    RICH    CUSTARD. 

Boil  one  quart  of  rich  milk,  or  what  is  better,  half 
cream,  put  in  a  stick  of  cinnamon  broken  in  small  pieces; 
after  boiling,  strain,  and  set  away  to  cool ;  then  stir  in 
gradually  one  tea-cup  and  a  half  of  sugar,  any  spice  you 
like,  and  the  yolks  of  ten  well-beaten  eggs  ;  then  pour 
into  cups,  and  place  in  a  tin  of  water,  put  in  a  slow 
oven,  and  bake ;  when  baked,  grate  some  nutmeg  on 
top,  and  add  the  whites  of  the  eggs  beaten  to  a  froth, 
with  a  table-spoonful  of  powdered  sugar,  and  a  little 
essence  of  lemon ;  pile  it  up  on  top  of  each  custard, 
and  if  you  like,  add  a  spot  of  red  nonpareils  in  the 
middle  of  the  pile. 

A    FINER    BAKED    CUSTARD. 

Take  a  pint  and  a  half  of  milk,  and  boil  gently  with 
six  ounces  of  loaf-sugar,  a  little  salt,  the  rmd  of  a 
lemon;  add  the  yolks  of  ten  well-beaten  eggs,  the 
whites  of  four ;  strain  the  whole,  and  add  a  pint  of 
cream ;  let  it  cool,  and  flavor  with  a  few  spoonfuls  of 
brandy,  or  a  little  ratafia ;  then  pour  into  cups,  and  set 
the  cups  in  a  tin  of  water  in  the  oven,  and  bake  very 
slowly. 


166  EXCELSIOR   COOK   BOOK 

RICE    CUSTARD. 

Take  a  pint  of  new  milk,  sweeten  to  the  taste,  then 
scald,  and  stir  in  ground  rice  till  quite  thick.  Take  off 
the  fire,  add  the  whites  of  three  eggs,  well  beaten ;  put 
over  the  fire  two  or  three  minutes,  stirring  it,  then  put 
into  cups  that  have  lain  in  cold  water.  When  cold, 
turn  them  out,  and  put  them  in  the  dish  in  which  they 
are  to  be  served ;  pour  around  them  a  custard  made  of 
the  yolks  of  the  eggs,  and  a  little  more  than  a  pint  of 
milk.  Put  on  the  top  some  currant  jelly  or  raspberry 
iam. 

LEMOM"    CUSTARD. 

Take  three  wine-glasses  of  lemon-juice,  strain  through 
a  sieve ;  beat  nine  eggs,  strain  them  also,  and  add  to  the 
lemon-juice,  with  one  quarter  of  a  pound  of  white  sugar, 
a  wine-glass  of  white  wine,  half  a  glass  of  water,  with 
grated  lemon-peel ;  mix  all  together,  and  boil  until  it 
begins  to  thicken,  and  then  turn  out  and  let  it  cool. 
COLD    CUSTARD,    OR    JUNKET. 

Soak  a  piece  of  rennet  in  brandy,  and  keep  it  corked 
tight,  then  take  one  quart  of  milk,  about  as  warm  as 
when  it  comes  from  the  cow,  add  a  little  salt  and  sugar, 
and  stir  in  sufficient  of  the  rennet  to  thicken  the  milk ; 
then  turn  into  cups,  and  grate  a  little  nutm.eg  on  the 
top.  You  can  leave  out  the  sugar,  and  use  sweetened 
cream  instead.  This  is  very  nice  to  serve  with  peaches 
and  strawberries. 

BLANC    MANGE. 

Take  one  ounce  of  isinglass,  two  quarts  of  milk,  sea- 
soned to  your  taste ;  the  isinglass  having  been  dissolved 
in  boiling  water  over  night ;  put  on  the  fire  and  boil, 
stirring  it  all  the  time,  then  strain  through  a  cloth  until 
nearly  cold.  Flavor  with  lemon  or  any  thing  you  like. 
Wet  the  moulds  in  cold  water,  then  pour  in.  If  it  does 
not  slip  out  easily,  wrap  a  cloth  wet  in  hot  water  round 
the  moulds,  then  loosen  with  a  knife,  and  turn  into 
glass  dishes.  It  may  be  set  to  cool  in  cups  or  wine- 
srlasses 

ANOTHER    BLANC    MANGE. 

Take  an  ounce  of  isinglass,  broken  in  small  pieces, 
wash  well,  then  turn  on  a  pint  of  boiling  water ;  let  it 


AND   housekeeper's   AID.  167 

Stand  until  morning,  add  one  pint  of  cream  and  one  of 
milk,  and  boil,  then  stram  through  a  cloth ,  P^t  ^n  two 
ounces  of  blanched  almonds,  pounded;  sweeten  to  the 
taste,  and  turn  into  moulds.  Stick  thm  slips  of  al- 
monds all  over  the  blanc  mange,  and  dress  around  with 
syllabub,  or  whip  cream. 

ARKOW-KOOT    BLANC    MANGE. 

Take  a  tea-cupful  of  arrow-root,  dissolved  in  cold 
water;  take  a  pint  of  milk,  add  the  grated  peel  of  a 
lemon,  a  grated  nutmeg,  and  boil  until  highly  flavored 
strain  into  a  pint  of  cream,  add  one  cup  of  sugar,  and 
boil  ten  minutes  ;  then  strain  hot  into  the  arrow-root, 
stirring  it  until  thick;  then  put  into  moulds. 
JATJNE    MANGE. 

Dissolve  one  ounce  and  a  half  of  isinglass  in  a  pint 
and  a  half  of  boiling  water,  add  one  pint  of  white  wme, 
the  yolks  of  eight  eggs,  and  the  juice  of  three  lemons ; 
boil  the  peels  in  the  liquor ;  beat  the  juice  with  the 
eggs ;  sweeten  to  your  taste ;  boil  all  together ;  strain, 
and  put  into  moulds. 

JACQUE    MANGE. 

Take  two  ounces  of  isinglass,  the  rind  of  two  lemons 
erated;  pour  on  a  pint  of  boiling  water,  and  when  it 
has  boiled  a  little,  pour  in  a  pint  of  white  wine,  then 
the  yolks  of  eight  eggs,  thoroughly  beaten,  the  juice  o± 
two  lemons,  and  sugar  to  the  taste.  The  eggs,  lemon- 
iuice,  and  sugar,  should  be  previously  mixed  with  a 
little  of  the  wine.  Add  the  whole  together  and  stir 
one  way,  until  it  boils.  Strain  through  muslm,  and 
pour  into  moulds  that  have  been  rinsed  m  cold  water. 

CHABIiOTTE   RTJSSE. 

Mix  with  the  yolks  of  four  eggs,  a  quarter  of  a  pound 
of  white  sugar,  and  a  pint  of  new  milk  ;  then  put  it  m 
a  kettle  of  hot  water  until  it  begins  to  thicken  ;  then 
add  half  a  pint  of  calves'  feet  jelly.  Strain  it ;  then  put 
in  a  pan  a  pint  of  cream,  flavored  or  not,  just  as  you 
like;  set  the  pan  on  ice,  and  stir  the  cream  until  it 
looks  like  float ;  pour  th§  cream  in  a  dish,  and  put  tiie 


168  EXCELSIOR   COOK   BOOK 

custard  in  the  pan  on  the  ice  ;  stir  it  until  it  becomes 
thick  Uke  jelly  ;  then  add  the  cream  carefully.  It 
should  look  like  light  sponge  cake  before  it  is  baked. 
Take  sponge  cake,  called  "  ladies'  fingers, "  and  put 
around  the  sides  and  bottom  of  a  round  tin  pan ;  pour 
the  charlotte  over  it,  and  set  on  the  ice  until  wanted. 
Then  take  a  round  dish  or  plate  and  turn  out ;  the  bot- 
tom will  be  at  the  top,  and  no  cake  at  the  bottom. 

KASPBEKRY    SPONGE. 

Dissolve  three  quarters  of  an  ounce  of  isinglass  in  a 
little  boiling  water ;  add  a  pint  of  new  milk,  half  a  pint 
of  cream,  half  a  pint  of  raspberry  jelly,  and  the  juice  of 
a  lemon ;  whisk  the  whole  until  it  looks  like  sponge ; 
then  put  in  a  mould,  and  turn  out  next  day. 
LEMON    SPONGE. 

Take  an  ounce  of  isinglass,  the  rind  of  one  lemon, 
and  dissolve  in  boiling  water ;  strain,  and  let  it  stand 
to  cool,  but  not  to  set.  Grate  the  rind  of  a  lemon,  and 
add  the  juice  of  the  lemon,  then  half  a  pound  of  sugar; 
strain  all  into  a  bowl,  and  whisk  them  all  together  till 
they  begin  to  stiffen.  Then  pour  into  a  flat  dish,  and 
cut  into  squares. 

APPLE,  OR  GOOSEBERRY  SOUFFLE. 

Scald  the  fruit  and  press  it  through  a  sieve ;  then 
put  it  in  a  tart  dish.  When  cold,  pour  a  rich  custard 
over  it ;  about  two  inches  deep.  Whip  the  whites  of 
eggs,  and  lay  it  in  rough  pieces  on  the  custard ;  sift  " 
white  sugar  over  it ;  then  jDut  in  the  oven  for  a  short 
time.     It  makes  a  very  handsome  dish. 

RASPBERRY    CHARLOTTE. 

Take  a  dozen  oblong  sponge  cakes,  spread  over  each 
a  layer  of  raspberry  jam,  and  place  them  round  in  a 
glass  dish.  Take  a  pint  of  cream,  and  eight  spoonfuls 
of  raspberry  jelly,  and  beat  together  and  fill  up  the 
bowl.     It  may  be  made  of  any  kind  of  fruit. 

PLUM  AND  CHERRY  CHARLOTTE. 

Take  a  quart  of  ripe  plums,  cherries,  peaches,  or 
any  fruit  you  like  j  take  the  stones  out,  and  stew  them 


AND    housekeeper's   AID.  169 

with  a  pound  of  sugar.  Cut  slices  of  bread  and  but- 
ter ;  then  lay  them  round  the  sides  and  bottom  of  a 
deep  dish.  Pour  on  the  fruit  boiling  hot ;  cover  it  up 
and  set  away  to  cool.     Serve  with  sweet  cream. 

CHAKLOTTE    DE   RUSSE. 

Take  one  pint  of  milk ;  add  six  eggs,  and  sugar  to 
sweeten  it.  Strain  into  it  an  ounce  of  isinglass  dis- 
solved in  boiling  water.  Bake  it,  and  let  it  cool ;  then 
make  a  whijD,  and  mix  with  the  custard,  and  cool  in 
forms.  Lay  in  the  bottom  of  your  dish  slices  of  sponge 
cake  alternately,  with  jelly  around  the  dish. 

ICE   CREAM.    WO.   1. 

Take  one  quart  of  sweet  milk,  cream  is  best,  two 
eggs,  one  tea-cupful  of  white  sugar,  one  tea-spoonful 
of  flour,  wet  with  a  little  milk ;  flavor  with  lemon, 
vanilla,  strawberry,  or  orange.  Put  your  milk  in  the 
freezer,  and  set  in  a  kettle  of  boiling  water,  stirring  it 
to  prevent  its  burning  ;  then  when  it  boils,  stir  in  the 
egg,  sugar,  and  flour,  also  the  flavoring.  Pound  up 
the  ice  in  small  pieces,  and  put  a  layer  of  ice  and  of 
salt  in  your  tub  alternately  around  it.  Stir  the  cream 
and  loosen  from  the  sides  of  the  tub  with  a  wooden 
spatula. 

ANOTHER   MODE. 

Take  one  quart  of  cream,  one  of  milk,  one  pound  of 
sugar ;  put  into  your  freezer,  and  put  in  boiling  water 
as  above;  add  lemon-peel  while  boiling.  Stir  in  four 
eggs.     Freeze  as  above. 

CHERRY  ICE   CREAM. 

Take  cherries,  mash  and  squeeze  out  the  juice ;  to 
every  pint  add  one  lemon,  the  juice  only,  and  a  pint> 
of  cream ;  freeze  as  above.     Strawberries  may  be  used 
in  the  same  way. 

•WHIP   CREAM. 

Take  a  pint  and  a  half  of  cream,  the  whites  of  three 
eggs,  the  juice  of  one  lemon,  sugar  to  your  taste,  fla- 
vored with  the  grated  rind  of  lemon  or  rose-water ; 
whip  with  a  whisk  or  in  a  whip-churn,  and  as  the  foam 
8 


170  EXCELSIOR   COOK   BOOK 

rises,  lay  it  into  jelly-glasses,  or  the  glass  may  be  half 
filled  with  jelly,  and  the  whip  poured  over  it. 

ANOTHER   ICE    CREAM. 

Take  one  quart  of  sweet  cream,  sweeten  and  flavor, 
whip  to  a  light  froth,  skim  off  and  put  into  your  freez- 
er until  all  is  whipped  to  a  froth.  It  will  freeze  in  less 
time,  and  be  smoother  than  any  other  recipe. 

RHE]SriSH   CREAM. 

An  ounce  and  a  half  of  isinglass,  dissolved  in  boiling 
water.  Strain  through  a  sieve ;  add  eight  eggs,  half  a 
pint  of  Rhenish  wine  or  white  wine,  the  juice  and  rind 
of  two  lemons  grated,  loaf-sugar  to  suit  the  taste.  Let 
them  boil  slowly  until  thick ;  then  strain  through  mus- 
lin into  china  cups. 

LEMON   CREAM. 

Take  two  eggs,  a  pint  of  thick  cream,  a  cup  of  sugar, 
and  the  rind  of  a  lemon,  cut  thin,  boil  it ;  then  stir 
until  almost  cold ;  put  the  juice  of  the  lemon  in  a  dish 
and  pour  the  cream  over  it,  stirring  until  cold.  Serve 
in  custard-cups  either  alone  or  with  sweetmeats. 
Leave  out  the  whites  of  the  egg. 

ICE    CREAM.    NO.   2. 

Take  four  quarts  of  milk,  one  quart  of  cream,  eight 
eggs  well  beaten,  one  pound  and  a  half  of  sugar, 
four  large  table-spoonfuls  of  wheat  flour,  or  six  even 
spoonfuls  of  arrow-root.  Stir  the  eggs  and  sugar  to- 
gether ;  the  flour  stir  smooth  with  a  little  milk.  Put 
the  milk  in  your  freezer,  set  it  in  a  kettle  of  water  and 
let  it  boil.  Then  stir  in  the  eggs,  sugar,  and  flour ; 
beat  well  and  let  it  cool.  Flavor  with  any  thing  you 
like.  Then  freeze  it.  The  patent  freezer  requires  less 
ice  than  the  other.  Ice  cream  may  be  made  without 
eggs  if  all  cream  is  used,  and  well  whisked  before  freez- 
ing.   In  that  case  it  will  not  require  boiling. 

S'WISS   CREAM. 

Take  a  pint  of  cream,  and  the  peel  of  one  lemon, 
set  over  the  fire  until  it  boils  ;  the  juice  of  a  lemon,  and 
a  little  flour  beaten  with  it,  mix  with  the  cream,  and 


AND   HOUSEKEEPER'S    AID.  171 

boil  a  few  minutes  lono-er.  Strain  throug^h  a  sieve. 
Lay  your  cake  in  the  dish  and  pour  on  the  cream.  It 
should  be  made  the  day  before  used. 

ANOTHER   LEMON   CREAM. 

Take  a  large  spoonful  of  brandy,  six  ounces  of  loaf 
sugar,  the  peel  and  juice  of  two  lemons,  grate  the  peel, 
mix  well,  and  add  a  pint  of  cream  and  whisk  it  up. 

ORAWGE    CREAM. 

Take  one  cupful  of  powdered  sugar,  half  a  cup  of 
water,  two  oranges,  the  rind  grated ;  add  four  well- 
beaten  eggs,  and  beat  together  some  time.  Strain 
through  a  flannel  into  a  saucepan  ;  set  it  over  a  gentle 
fire  and  stir  it  one  way  until  scalding  hot,  but  not 
boiling,  or  it  will  curdle.  Serve  as  custard  in  jelly- 
glasses. 

BLAlSrCHED   CREAM. 

Take  a  quart  of  rich  cream,  sweeten  with  loaf-sugar, 
boil  it  and  beat  the  whites  of  twenty  eggs  with  a  lit- 
tle cold  cream ;  strain  it,  and  when  the  cream  is  upon 
the  boil,  stir  in  the  eggs ;  then  strain  through  a  hair- 
sieve  ;  beat  with  a  spoon  until  it  is  cold,  then  put  in  a 
dish. 

SNCW  RICE   CREAM. 

Take  four  ounces  of  rice,  two  ounces  of  loaf-sugar, 
two  ounces  of  butter,  six  ounces  of  the  essence  of  al- 
monds, a  quart  of  new  milk.  Boil  fifteen  or  twenty 
minutes.  Pour  into  a  mould  greased  with  Florence 
oil;  turn  out  when  cold,  and  serve  with  preserves 
around  it. 

BURNT    CREAM. 

Make  a  rich  custard  without  sugar,  put  in  grated 
lemon-peel ;  when  cold,  sift  sugar  over  it,  and  burn  the 
top  with  a  salamander. 

POMPADOUR   CREAM. 

Beat  the  whites  of  six  eggs  to  a  froth  with  one 
spoonful  of  brandy ;  sweeten  to  your  taste ;  stir 
over  the  fire  two  or  three  minutes ;  pour  into  a  dish ; 
then  melt  some  butter  or  boil  cream,  and  cover  it. 


172  EXCELSIOR   COOK   BOOK 

SWCW-BALLS. 

Beat  the  whites  of  six  eggs  to  a  froth ;  sweeten  to 
your  taste  ;  flavor  with  rose-water.  Drop  a  spoonful 
at  a  time  in  boiling  Avater  for,  a  minute  or  two.  -Make 
a  cream  of  milk,  eggs,  and  sugar,  to  float  them  in. 

PLOATIlSra  ISLATJ-D. 

Take  the  white  of  an  egg^  beat  to  a  froth ;  add  a 
glass  of  currant-jelly ;  beat  together  until  a  spoon  will 
stand  up  in  it.  Drop  a  spoonful  at  a  time  on  a  glass 
bowl  of  sweet  cream. 

FLOATING  ISLAND.    NO.   2.    ANOTHEK    TV  AY. 

Sweeten  a  pint  of  thick  cream  with  loaf-sugar ;  add 
a  gill  of  wine,  the  grated  rind  of  a  lemon ;  whisk  to  a 
froth ;  then  pour  a  pint  of  cream  in  a  dish,  take  a 
French  roll,  slice  it,  and  lay  over  the  cream  as  lightly 
as  possible  ;  then  a  layer  of  calves'  feet  jelly  or  currant, 
then  whip  your  cream,  and  lay  on  the  froth  as  high  as 
you  can,  and  what  remains,  pour  into  the  bottom  of 
the  dish.     Garnish  the  rim  with  sweetmeats. 

ANOTHER   WAY. 

Beat  the  whites  of  three  eggs,  three  table-spoonfuls 
of  raspberry  jam,  or  red  currant-jelly.  When  the 
whole  will  stand  in  rocky  forms,  pour  it  upon  apple- 
jelly  or  cream  beaten  up  with  wine,  sugar,  and  grated 
lemon-peel. 

TO  "WHIP   CREAM. 

Sweeten  a  bowl  of  cream,  and  flavor  with  any  juicy 
fruit ;  such  as  orange,  lemon,  etc.,  by  rubbing  sugar  on 
the  peel ;  set  another  bowl  near  with  a  sieve  over  it ; 
then  whip  the  cream,  and  as  it  rises  in  a  froth,  skim  it 
oflT  and  put  in  the  sieve  to  drain ;  whip  the  cream  that 
drains  off",  and  when  done,  ornament  with  lemon  rasp- 
ings. This  cream  may  be  used  before  it  is  set,  upon 
custard,  trifle,  or  syllabub. 

A   TRIFLE. 

Whip  cream,  as  above,  adding  a  little  brandy  or 
wine ;  lay  in  a  glass  dish  sponge  cake,  ratafia  cakes,  and 


AND   housekeeper's   AID.  173 

macaroons,  and  pour  upon  them  as  mncli  brandy  and 
sweet  wine  as  they  will  soak ;  then  a  rich  custard  about 
two  inclies  deep,  with  a  little  lemon-peel  and  grated 
nutmeg;  then  a  layer  of  currant-jelly  or  raspberry  jam, 
and  upon  the  whole  a  high  whip.  A  triHe  should  be 
made  the  day  before  used. 

CAKE    TRIFLE. 

Cut  out  a  rice  or  diet-bread  cake  about  two  incaes 
from  the  edge ;  fill  with  custard,  a  few  blanched  and 
split  almonds,  and  pieces  of  raspberry  jam,  and  put  on 
the  whole  a  high  w^hip. 

PRESERVES    AND    SWEETMEATS. 

Almost  all  kinds  of  fruit  require  a  pound  of  sugar  to 
a  pound  of  fruit,  except  citron,  which  can  be  preserved 
with  less.  White  sugar  is  more  delicate  for  sweetmeats, 
and  is  more  profitable  to  use  than  brown.  It  does  not 
waste  so  much  m  clarifying,  although  nice  brown  sugar 
will  answer  very  well  for  some  kinds.  The  West-India 
sugar-house  syrup  is  nice  for  preserving  as  it  will  not 
ferrnent.  A  preserving-kettle  lined  with  porcelain  is 
the  best  thing  to  preserve  in,  but  any  thing  else  will 
answer  except  iron  ;  if  brass  is  used,  it  should  be  kept 
perfectly  clean,  and  the  preserves  poured  out  as  soon 
as  done.  I  think  fruit  retains  its  color  and  flavor  bet- 
ter by  boiling  quick  than  by  a  slow  process.  Fruits 
should  be  put  in  the  syrup  when  it  is  cold.  If  the  syrup 
is  rich,  the  fruit  will  be  hard ;  take  it  up  before  they 
break.  A  wooden  paddle  is  better  for  stirring  than  a 
silver  spoon,  which  should  only  be  used  for  skimming. 
The  scum  may  be  strained  through  a  bit  of  muslin  or 
jelly-bag,  that  there  may  be  no  waste,  and  then  turned 
back  again,  the  scum  remaining  in  the  bag.  Fruit  is 
nicer  "by  being  boiled  a  short  time,  but  will  not  keep  as 
long  as  if  boUed  longer.  It  is  better  to  keep  sweet- 
meats in  small  jars,  just  what  you  would  use  at  one 
time  ;  glass  keeps  them  better  than  any  thing  else. 
Brown  stone  or  earthenware  will  answer,  but  shoiild 
never  be  used  for  any  thing  else.  After  they  are  put  in, 
they  should  not  be  moved  until  cold  ;  then  wet  a  paper 


1  74  EXCELSIOR   COOK   BOOK 

m  brandy  and  coA^er  the  lop  of  the  sweetmeats  with  it, 
or  pour  on  a  little  brandy.  It  will  not  injure  the  taste 
at  all.  They  should  be  kept  in  a  dry,  cool  place.  Brown 
blotting-paper  wet  Avith  the  Avhite  of  an  egg  and  placed 
OA'er  the  jars  ;  when  dry,  put  on  another  j^aper  cover. 
A  jelly-bag  is  made  of  a  piece  of  flannel,  half  a  square, 
and  scAved  on  one  side,  the  two  corners  together,  bound 
with  a  piece  of  tape,  and  four  loops  sewed  on  to  hang 
it  by.  PreserA'ing-kettles  should  be  broad,  and  the  fla\^or 
of  the  fruit  is  preserved  by  coA''ering  the  kettle. 

TO   CLARIFY   SUGAR. 

AlloAV  the  beaten  white  of  an  egg  to  every  four 
pounds  of  sugar,  and  a  pint  of  Avater.  Put  your  sugar 
in  your  preserving-kettle,  pour  in  the  water  and  egg, 
set  it  where  it  will  gradually  warm,  stirring  occasion- 
ally until  it  boils  ;  then  skim  it,  and  pour  in  a  gill  of 
cold  water,  and  when  it  boils  skim  again.  Take  from 
the  fire,  and  let  it  stand  a  fcAV  minutes  ;  then  put  over 
again  and  boil,  and  continue  doing  so  until  the  syrup 
is  clear,  and  as  often  as  any  scum  arises  take  off.  If 
Avanted  to  candy,  boil  until  sufficiently  thick,  AA'hich  can 
be  ascertained  by  dropping  some  in  cold  water ;  if  it  is 
brittle  and  snaps,  it  is  done.  Then  put  in  the  fruit  and 
preserA^e.  Wliite  sugar  does  not  require  clarifying  ;  it 
is  therefore  the  least  trouble  as  well  as  cheapest  to  use. 

APPLES. 

Pare  them,  and  if  A'-ery  large,  hah^e  or  quarter ;  if  not, 
take  out  the  core,  leaA'ing  the  apple  AAdiole.  For  six 
pounds  of  apples  alloAV  four  of  sugar.  Make  your  syrup 
and  let  it  cool,  then  add  the  apples  and  heat  sloAAdy  at 
first ;  boil  until  they  are  clear  and  tender.  When  cool, 
add  the  extract  of  lemon,  or  slice  up  a  fresh  lemon,  and 
put  in  a  layer  of  lemon  and  a  layer  of  apples. 

BAKED    APPLES. 

They  may  be  pared  and  the  core  taken  out  and  the 
apples  filled  Avith  sugar,  and  put  in  a  tin  pan  with  a 
little  Avater  in,  and  if  you  like,  a  bit  of  cinnamon,  may 
be  added.  Bake  until  soft.  They  arc  nice  baked  Avith 
the  skins  on,  and  sliced  up  when  done,  and  eaten  Avith 
sujxar  and  cream. 


AND   housekeeper's   AID.  175 

CRAB-APPLES. 

Make  a  syrup  of  equal  weio'lit  of  apples  and  sugar. 
Simmer  tlie  apples  in  water  until  the  skins  come  off 
easily ;  then  take  up  and  take  out  the  core  with  a  cutter 
or  sharp  knife.  Boil  in  the  syrup  until  tender  ;  then 
take  them  up,  and  spread  on  dishes  to  cool ;  then  place 
them  in  jars  and  pour  the  syrup  over  them. 

PINE-APPLES. 

Take  those  that  are  fully  ripe  and  fresh ;  take  off  the 
rind,  and  cut  in  slices  half  an  inch  thick.  Allow  equal 
weights  of  white  sugar,  and  make  a  layer  of  fruit,  then 
a  layer  of  sugar,  until  all  are  in,  and  let  them  remain 
until  next  day ;  then  pour  off  the  syrup  and  add  a  pint 
of  water  if  four  pounds  are  preserved  ;  boil  a  few  min- 
utes, then  take  from  the  fire.  When  cool,  put  in  the 
pine-apples,  and  boil  until  tender.  Put  in  a  deej^  dish 
and  let  them  remain  several  days  ;  then  scald  up  the 
syrup  and  pour  on  the  fruit  while  hot.  When  cold,  put 
in  glass  jars  and  seal  up  tight.  They  retain  their  flavor 
better  if  not  boiled,  but  are  liable  to  ferment  unless 
kej)t  in  a  box  of  dry  sand.     They  are  nice  canned. 

PINE-APPLE   MARMALADE. 

Take  off  the  rind  and  grate  them,  leaving  out  the  core 
in  the  center  ;  add  an  equal  w^eight  of  sugar.  When 
the  juice  begins  to  run  so  as  to  form  a  syrup,  then  set 
it  on  the  fire  and  heat  slowly,  stirring  often  to  prevent 
its  burning.  Let  it  simmer  half  an  hour,  then  cool  a 
little,  and  if  it  cuts  smooth  it  is  done. 

CRAB-APPLE   MARMALADE. 

Boil  them  in  just  water  enough  to  prevent  their  burn- 
ing ;  keep  them  covered.  When  soft,  strain  and  add  an 
equal  quantity  of  sugar.  Put  over  a  slow  fire,  and  stir 
constantly  until  thick.  Try  a  little  by  letting  it  cool 
before  taking  off;  when  done  it  will  cut  smooth. 

APPLE   MARMALADE. 

Take  tAventy  pounds  of  pared  and  quartered  apples. 
Make  a  syrup  of  ten  230unds  of  sugar,  then  put  in  the 
apples  when  the  syrup  is  cold  and  boil  until  tender ; 


176  •  EXCELSIOR   COOK   BOOK 

take  them  out  and  mash  fine  ;  cut  six  oranges  into 

small  slices,  and  boil  all  together,  stirring  all  the  time 

until  done. 

STKA^WBERRIES. 

Take  ripe  strawberries,  but  not  so  ripe  as  to  be  soft. 
Hull  them  and  take  equal  quantities  of  sugar  and  ber- 
ries. Put  a  layer  of  berries  and  a  layer  of  sugar,  and 
so  on  until  all  are  in.  Preserve  only  a  few  at  a  time, 
for  if  crowded  they  will  not  look  well.  Let  them  re- 
main an  hour  or  two  to  let  the  juice  settle  at  the  bot- 
tom ;  then  put  over  a  moderate  fire,  and  when  preserved 
put  in  glass  or  china  jars,  not  large  ones,  seal  tight, 
keep  in  sand  ;  a  small  plate  or  a  piece  of  a  broken  i^late 
may  be  put  on  top  to  keep  the  fruit  under  the  syrup. 
A  little  brandy  may  be  put  on  top.  They  retain  their 
natural  flavor  best  if  not  cooked.  This  can  be  done  by 
allowing  a  little  more  sugar  than  berries,  and  putting 
the  berries  in  glass  jars,  first  a  layer  of  berries,  then  of 
sugar,  and  so  on.  Cork  tight  and  keep  in  a  box  of  sand. 
They  are  more  difficult  to  keep  in  this  way. 

APKICOTS. 

Scald  them  to  take  the  skin  ofi";  cut  in  half  and  ex- 
tract the  stones.  Boil  in  a  little  water ;  then  take  their 
weight  in  sugar  and  add  the  liquor  in  which  they  Avere 
boiled  ;  boil  gently  and  skim  well.  When  it  comes  to 
a  jelly,  take  them  up.   Put  in  jars,  and  cover  with  paper. 

PEACHES. 

Take  those  that  are  not  fully  ripe,  pare  them  and  take 
out  the  stones  after  halving.  Take  equal  quantities  of 
peaches  and  sugar.  Put  the  sugar  on  the  peaches ;  let 
it  remain  over  night.  In  the  morning  skim  out  the 
peaches  and  heat  the  syrup  ;  take  ofi"  the  scum,  let  it 
cool ;  then  put  in  the  peaches  and  heat  up  ;  when  done 
put  in  jars.  If  you  like,  crack  the  ^^its  and  put  in  a  few 
peach  meats.  In  the  course  of  a  few  days  scald  the 
syrup  and  turn  back.  When  cold,  put  a  btandy  paper 
on  top. 

PEACHES    IN   BRANDY. 

Gather  them  while  quite  hard ;  rub  witli  a  bit  of  flan- 
nelj  and  prick  \\dth  a  needle.     Take  half  a  pound  of 


A.ND    HOUSEKEEPER'S    AID.  HI 

suo-ar  to  one  of  peaches,  and  make  a  syrup  ;  then  boil 
the  peaches  until  quite  tender,  but  not  to  break,  ihen 
take  the  peaches  out  of  the  syrup  and  lay  on  platters 
Take  a  pint  of  brandy  to  every  pint  of  the  liquor,  and 
turn  it  while  hot  on  to  the  peaches.  When  cold,  put  m 
jars  and  seal  up  ;  keep  in  a  cool  place.  Other  kmds 
of  fruit  may  be  done  in  the  same  way. 

PEACH   JAM. 

Pare  and  halve,  then  take  out  the  stones,  lay  them  in 
a  pan  with  a  layer  of  sugar,  then  of  peaches,  alternately, 
allowing  three  quarters  of  a  pound  to  a  pound  ol  truit. 
Let  them  remain  a  few  hours,  then  put  m  a  preserving- 
kettle  and  stew,  frequently  stirring  to  prevent  their 
burning  on  the  bottom  ;  no  water  is  necessary,  ihey 
retain  their  flavor  done  in  this  way. 

PEARS. 

Pears  look  nice  whole  if  not  too  large.    Pare,  leaving 
the  stems  on.    Make  a  thin  syrup  and  boil  them  tender 
but  not  to  break.     Let  them  lie  in  the  syrup  two  days, 
then  drain  and  add  more  sugar  to  the  liquor,  and  boil 
ten  minutes ;  skim  and  put  in  the  pears,  and  simmer 
until  transparent.     Then  take  out  and  put  a  clove  or  a 
cassia  bud  into  the  end  of  each.     Lay  m  a  jar  when 
cool      Then  pour  the  warm  syrup  over  them  and  add 
more  sugar  ;  then  simmer  half  an  hour.     Weigh  your 
suo-ar  at  first  and  allow  three  quarters  of  a  pound  to 
one  of  pears.     They  are  very  nice  baked  m  molasses. 
CURRANT   MARMALADE. 
Take  ripe  currants  and  squeeze  out  the  juice  of  part 
of  them  ;  then  add  the  same  quantity  of  red  raspberry 
juice      Put  Avith  the  whole  currants  and  boil  gently. 
When  they  begin  to  boil,  put  in  an  equal  weight  ol 
sucrar  boiled  to  a  candy  height ;  boil  and  mash  them, 
skfm  as  fast  as  any  thing  rises,  and  when  thick  as  mar- 
malade put  in  jars. 

CURRANTS. 
Take  them  when  ripe,  pick  them  over,  and  Avash  thein 
in  cold  water.     Let  them  drain  well ;  then  put  equal 
8* 


178  EXCELSIOR   COOK   BOOK 

quantities  of  sugar  and  frnit.  Make  a  syrup,  and  when 
cool  add  the  currants  and  cook  gently  a  few  minutes. 
After  a  few  days,  if  they  are  not  jelly,  heat  the  liquor 
and  pour  on  again.  They  are  nice  preserved  green. 
Currants  may  be  j^reserved  by  j^utting  half  raisins  and 
half  currants. 

BRANDY   PEARS. 

Take  pears  that  are  ripe  but  not  soft.  Simmer  in  a 
little  water  until  they  yield  to  the  pressure  of  the  fin- 
ger ;  then  take  them  out  and  put  in  cold  water.  Pare 
them  and  make  a  syrup  of  three  pounds  of  sugar  to  one 
of  pears,  and  a  cupful  of  water  to  each  pound  of  sugar. 
When  the  syrup  is  clear,  put  in  the  pears  while  hot ; 
boil  until  they  look  clear  and  the  syrup  is  rich.  Put  in 
a  glass  jar  and  boil  the  syrup  thick ;  mix  a  gill  of 
brandy  to  one  pint  of  syrup  ;  pour  over  the  fruit,  and 
when  cold  put  a  paper  on  tojJ. 

QUINCES. 

Select  the  nicest  and  best  ones,  for  the  inferior  ones 
can  be  used  for  jelly  or  marmalade.  Pare  and  quarter 
or  cut  in  rings,  taking  out  all  the  core.  Boil  until  tender 
in  water ;  then  put  in  a  jar  and  let  them  remain  until  the 
next  day.  Boil  the  skins  and  cores  in  a  little  water,  and 
strain  miless  jelly  is  to  be  made  ;  if  it  is,  reserve  them 
for  that,  adding  a  few  quarters  to  give  a  better  flavor. 
Then  add  the  water  in  which  they  were  boiled  the  day 
before,  and  allow  a  pound  of  sugar  to  each  pound  of 
quinces.  (It  is  well  to  weigh  the  quinces  before  cook- 
ing them.)  Let  it  boil  a  few  minutes,  and  skim  ;  then 
remove  from  the  fire  and  when  cool  put  in  the  quinces. 
If  not  water  sufficient,  add  more,  for  if  too  rich  they 
will  shrink  and  be  hard.  Boil  until  a  fork  will  easily 
go  through  them.  Keep  them  covered  while  cooking 
to  make  them  light-colored.  Take  them  out  with  a 
skimmer,  and  lay  in  a  jar.  Boil  down  the  syrup  until 
just  enough  to  cover  them,  and  when  cold  it  will  be  a 
nice  jelly.  They  may  be  preserved  with  apples  by  add- 
ing  one  tliird  apples,  the  same  size  as  the  quinces,  which 
must  be  cooked  in  the  syrup  first  and  put  in  the  bottom 
of  the  jar,  as  they  will  not  require  so  much  cooking  as 
the  quinces. 


AND   housekeeper's   AID.  llO 

QUI]>J'CES   ^WITH   MOLASSES. 

After  paring  and  quartering  them,  boil  the  skins  and 
cores  in  new  cider,  then  strain  them.  For  five  pounds 
of  quince  take  a  pound  of  brown  sugar,  one  quart  of 
molasses,  and  the  cider  in  which  the  skins  have  been 
boiled  ;  add  the  whites  of  two  eggs  and  clarify.  When 
cool,  add  the  quinces,  and  boil  until  tender  ;  add  more 
cider  if  necessary.  Spice  with  orange-peel  or  ginger- 
root. 

QUINCE    MARMALADE. 

Wash  and  quarter  the  quinces,  then  boil  in  water 
until  perfectly  soft.  The  parings  and  cores  which  have 
been  left  after  preserving  may  be  added ;  then  strain 
and  add  as  much  sugar,  pound  for  pound ;  stew  gently, 
stirring  constantly  to  prevent  its  burning.  In  the 
course  of  an  hour  take  it  up.  If  it  cuts  smooth  w^hen 
cold,  it  is  done.  Put  into  deep  dishes  that  it  may  be 
cut  in  slices. 

PLUMS. 

The  richest  plum  for  preserving  is  the  damson.  Make 
a  syrup  of  brown  sugar,  pound  for  pound,  clarify  it,  and 
when  boiling  hot  pour  over  the  plums.  Let  them  re- 
main two  days  ;  then  drain  off  and  boil  again.  Skim 
well  and  pour  it  over  them  again  ;  let  them  remain  two 
more  days,  and  then  put  them  in  the  kettle  and  boil 
until  rich. 

TO   PKESERVE   PLUMS   'WITHOUT   THE    SKINS. 

Pour  boiling  w^ater  over  the  large  egg  plum,  and  cover 
up  until  cold,  when  the  skins  will  easily  come  off.  Then 
make  a  syrup  of  a  pound  of  sugar  and  a  tea-cupful  of 
water  to  a  pound  of  pUims  ;  boil  it  and  pour  over  and 
let  them  remain  two  days  and  boil  again ;  then  do  them 
as  in  the  former  directions. 

TO  PRESERVE  GREEN  GAGES, 

Loaf-sugar  should  be  used  for  gages,  pound  for  pound. 
Prick  tliem  with  a  large  needle  at  the  top  and  bottom. 
Make  the  syrup  and  just  water  enougli  to  cover  them ; 
then  boil  live  minutes.  Put  them  in  deep  dishes  and 
let  them  remain  until  the  next  day ;  then  drain  them 


180  EXCELSIOR   COOK   BOOK 

and  boil  the  syrup  and  ]30ur  on  again ;  continue  this 
until  the  fifth  time,  then  boil  the  plums  a  few  minutes 
and  put  in  jars.    Care  must  be  taken  not  to  break  them. 

PLUM    JAM. 

Boil  in  Avater  until  tender ;  then  rub  through  a  sieve, 
and  to  erery  pint  add  a  pound  of  sugar,  and  make  as 
marmalade  ;  then  put  in  tumblers  as  directed  for  jelly. 

CHEHKIES  OR  SMALL  PLUMS. 

Make  a  syrup,  pound  for  pound,  adding  a  little  water, 
and  boil  the  fruit  a  few  minutes  ;  then  take  out  with  a 
skimmer,  and  boil  the  syrup  down  rich,  and  pour  on 
hot.  If  you  wish  to  preserve  them  without  the  pits, 
take  them  out  carefully,  saving  the  juice.  Put  in  small 
jars  when  cold,  and  seal  tight. 

CITRON"  AND  ^^ATERMELON   RINDS. 

Cut  in  squares  about  an  inch  long,  boil  a  few  minutes 
in  alum-water,  then  drain  after  rinsing  in  cold  water. 
Make  a  syrup  of  equal  weight  of  white  sugar ;  boil  until 
clear.  When  cool,  add  a  little  essence  of  ginger,  or  what 
is  better,  when  the  ^^reserves  are  to  be  used,  add  a  little 
extract  of  lemon,  or  if  preferred,  put  in  the  jar  oil  of 
lemon. 

GRAPES. 

Boil  them  in  a  syrup  of  an  equal  weight  of  sugar  ;  if 
large,  extract  the  seeds  by  halving  them.  If  ripe, 
squeeze  out  the  pulp,  boil  soft  and  strain  it ;  add  an 
equal  weight  of  sugar,  and  boil  until  thick. 

RASPBERRY   JAM. 

Allow  three  quarters  of  a  pound  of  sugar  to  a  pound 
of  berries.  Mix  the  sugar  and  berries ;  mash  them  and 
lot  them  remain  awhile  ;  then  boil,  stirring  all  the  time 
to  prevent  its  burning.  Another  way  is  to  add  a  pint 
of  currant-juice  to  every  five  pounds  of  berries,  and  an 
extra  pound  of  sugar. 

TOMATOES. 

Take  the  straw-colored,  turn  on  boiling  water  to  take 
off  the  skins  j  then  weigh  them  and  put  equal  quantities 


AND   housekeeper's   AID.  181 

of  sugar,  and  let  it  remain  on  all  night.  In  the  morn- 
ing drain  them  and  boil  the  syrnp,  removing  the  scnm ; 
put  in  the  tomatoes  and  boil  twenty  minutes  ;  take  them 
out  and  boil  the  syrup  until  thick  enough.  When  cool, 
slice  lemon  or  oranges  and  lay  between  them  in  a  jar ; 
then  pour  the  syru])  over  them  and  tie  up. 

TOMATO    JAM. 

Take  off  the  skins  and  mash  fine,  adding  an  equal 
weight  of  sugar,  and  heat  gradually  until  thick ;  or  they 
may  be  washed  clean  and  put  in  a  preserving-kettle, 
covering  it  tight,  and  stew  until  soft ;  then  strain 
through  a  colander,  and  add  sugar ;  then  heat  on  the 
fire,  stirring  constantly  until  done.  Ginger  essence  or 
lemon  may  be  added. 

TOMATO    FIGS. 

After  taking  off  the  skins,  weigh  them  and  add  an 
equal  weight  of  sugar  ;  let  them  stand  two  days ;  then 
boil  the  syrup  and  skim  well ;  pour  over  the  tomatoes 
and  let  them  stand  two  days  longer.  The  third  time 
pouring  on,  dry  them  either  in  the  sun  or  oven.  When 
perfectly  dry,  pack  them  in  boxes  with  a  layer  of  sugar 
between.     The  syrup  may  be  used  for  other  purposes. 

BARBERRIES 

may  be  preserved  like  currants,  or  if  preserved  in  mo- 
lasses they  will  soon  lose  the  molasses  taste.  The  small 
winter  grape  may  be  preserved  in  the  same  way. 

CRANBERRIES. 

Allow  pound  for  pound,  equal  weight ;  make  the 
syrup  and  boil  until  transparent,  or  to  a  peck  allow 
two  pounds  of  brown  sugar  and  half  a  pint  of  molasses  ; 
clarify  and  boil  until  transparent.  For  marmalade  make 
as  others,  except  the  quantity  of  sugar ;  add  a  pound 
and  a  half  to  a  pound  of  cranberries. 

CUCUMBERS. 

Take  large  ripe  cucumbers ;  pare  and  take  out  the 
seeds,  cut  in  pieces  one  inch  square,  put  in  salt  and 
water  that  will  bear  up  an  egg ;  let  them  remain  three 


182  EXCELSIOR   COOK  BOOK 

days.  Wash  them  and  put  into  cold  water  with  a  lump 
of  alum,  and  boil  until  tender  ;  then  drain  and  make  a 
syrup,  allowing  equal  weights  of  sugar  and  cucumbers, 
and  when  cool  put  in  and  boil  until  clear.  They  may 
be  j)reserved  the  same  as  citron,  and  can  scarcely  be 
known  from  them.     Flavor  with  any  thing  you  like. 

PRUNES. 

Boil  until  they  swell  out  plump ;  then  add  sugar,  half 
a  pound  to  a  pound  of  prunes  ;  cover  tight  while  boil- 
ing ;  add  lemon  sliced  up  if  you  like.  When  taken 
from  the  fire  add  a  wine-glassful  of  wine. 

BLACK  CURRANTS. 

Take  off  the  ends  with  a  pair  of  scissors,  and  allow 
little  over  a  pound  of  sugar  to  a  pound  of  fruit ;  half  a 
pint  of  red  currant-juice  to  a  pound  is  nice  ;  put  all  into 
a  preserving-kettle  and  boil,  carefully  skimming  it ;  let 
it  boil  fifteen  minutes.     They  are  nice  for  tarts. 

GOOSEBERRRIES. 

Take  off  the  blossoms  and  stems,  and  if  not  smooth 
roll  in  a  cloth  until  they  are,  and  for  each  quart  take  a 
pound  of  sugar  and  a  gill  of  water ;  make  a  syrup  and 
put  in  the  fruit ;  boil  fifteen  minutes,  and  put  in  jars 
w^hen  cold.     Keep  for  tarts  and  pies. 

RHUBARB    JAM. 

Wipe  the  stalks  clean,  not  wash  them ;  peel  off  the 
skin,  and  cut  up  ;  a  pound  of  sugar  to  a  pound  of  plant 
must' be  allowed ;  stew  until  tender.  It  must  be  slowly 
stewed  or  the  flavor  will  be  lost. 

TO   BOTTLE   FRUIT. 

Take  any  kind  of  fruit  and  put  in  bottles  ;  fill  up  full 
and  put  cold  water  in  a  kettle,  with  straw  at  the  bot- 
tom, and  while  heating,  cork  and  seal  up  tight.  Put  in 
a  cool  place  and  they  will  keep  a  long  time.  A  better 
way  is  to  cork  up,  leaving  a  small  aperture  in  the  cork 
for  the  heated  air  to  escape  ;  then  seal.  They  should 
boil  twenty  minutes  before  sealing. 


AND   housekeeper's   AID.  183 

CANNING   FRUIT. 

Canning  fruit  is  preferable  to  preserving,  as  the  fruit 
retains  its  natural  flavor,  and  does  not  require  half  the 
sugar.  Glass  cans  are  best,  but  almost  any  other  kind 
will  answer,  tin  or  earthen  jars.  After  filling  they  must 
be  put  into  cold  water  in  a  kettle  and  heated  gradually, 
leaving  a  hole  in  the  top  to  allow  the  air  to  escape,  and 
when  boiling,  fill  up  the  aperture  with  a  mixture  of 
beeswax  and  rosin.     They  must  be  put  in  a  cool  place. 

CANNING  TOMATOES. 

Pour  on  hot  water  to  take  off  the  skins ;  then  cook 
the  same  as  for  eating,  adding  a  little  salt,  and  fill  up 
your  cans ;  if  properly  sealed,  they  will  keep  any  length 
of  time.  Green  corn,  peas,  or  any  kind  of  vegetables 
may  be  canned  successfully. 

TO   CAN  PEACHES. 

Take  half  a  pound  of  sugar  to  one  pound  of  peaches. 
Make  a  syrup  as  directed  ;  add  half  a  pint  of  water  to 
every  pound  of  sugar.  Pare  the  peaches  and  drop  into 
the  syrup  ;  boil  ten  minutes.  Put  into  the  cans  and 
seal  up.  Any  other  kind  of  fruit  may  be  preserved  in 
the  same  way.  They  will  keep  equally  as  well  without 
sugar  as  with. 

APPLE  BUTTER. 

Take  from  six  to  eight  gallons  of  cider  to  one  bushel 
of  apples  ;  boil  down  one  half;  then  put  in  the  apples, 
having  them  previously  pared  and  cored,  and  boil  down 
thick ;  add  spices  if  you  like,  and  sugar  if  the  apples 
are  tart ;  half  sweet  and  half  sour  apples  are  the  best. 
Boil  the  sweet  ones  first,  as  it  will  take  longer  to  boil 
them  tender.  Any  kind  of  berry  may  be  made  as  well 
as  apples,  but  they  will  not  require  any  cider,  but  use 
half  a  pound  of  sugar  to  one  pound  of  apples  or  berries. 

PRESERVED    PUMPKIN. 

Cut  pumpkin  of  a  nice  flavor  and  fully  ripe ;  pare  and 
cut  in  pieces  the  third  of  an  inch  thick.  Take  equal 
weight  in  white  sugar.  Allow  a  gill  of  lemon-juice  to 
four  pounds  of  pumpkin,  or  the  juice  of  one  lemon  to  a 


184  EXCELSIOR   COOK  BOOK 

pound.  Put  the  pumpkin  in  a  pan  with  the  sugar  and 
juice,  and  let  it  remain  all  night.  In  the  morning  put 
into  a  preserving-kettle  and  cook  till  clear ;  be  careful 
to  skim  well ;  then  add  some  lemon-peel  cut  in  small 
pieces.  Take  out  and  strain  the  syrup  through  a  jelly- 
bag  and  pour  on. 

FROSTED    FRUIT. 

Dip  any  kind  of  fruit  into  the  beaten  whites  of  eggs, 
then  in  fine  white  sugar  ;  put  on  a  tin  to  dry,  set  in  a 
warm  oven.     When  dry,  put  in  a  dry  place. 

TO  PRESERVE  FRUIT  BY  DRYING. 

Take  strawberries,  blackberries,  or  raspberries,  and 
allow  half  a  pound  of  sugar  to  a  pound  of  berries,  and 
dry  in  an  oven.  I  think  they  retain  their  flavor  better 
than  drying  in  the  sun.  Put  in  jars  and  seal  up  tight. 
These  are  nice  for  pies  or  puddings  in  the  winter  when 
nothing  else  can  be  obtained.  Any  kind  of  fruit  can  be 
kept  a  long  time  by  drying  perfectly  and  putting  in  a 
bag  and  hanging  in  a  dry  place.  They  must  be  well 
dried  or  else'  they  will  breed  worms,  and  should  be  im- 
mediately heated  over. 

TO    MAKE    MOLASSES  CAISTDY. 

The  West-India  molasses  is  best  for  this  purpose. 
Take  one  quart,  and  half  a  pound  of  brown  sugar,  boil 
until  it  will  crisp  when  cold.  Care  should  be  taken  not 
to  have  it  burn  ;  when  nearly  done,  add  the  juice  of  one 
lemon  ;  do  not  put  in  too  soon  or  the  taste  will  boil 
out.  When  done,  jDOur  on  to  a  buttered  tin.  If  nut- 
meats  are  put  in,  they  should  be  put  in  while  warm. 
Take  some  out  of  the  pan  and  pull  with  your  hands 
until  of  a  light  color  ;  the  more  it  is  worked  the  whiter 
it  will  be. 

JELLY 

may  be  made  of  almost  any  kind  of  fruits  mashed  and 
strained  through  a  jelly-bag,  allowing  a  pound  of  sugar 
to  every  pint  of  juice. 

CURRANT  JELLY. 

Take  currants,  not  too  ripe,  or  the  jelly  will  not  be 
as  good  a  color ;  just  after  they  have  turned  red  is  the 


AND    housekeeper's   AID.  185 

best  time.  Pick  them  over  «ind  wash  them  clean ;  then 
mash  them,  and  squeeze  tliera  in  a  bag,  or  put  them  in 
a  jar  and  set  it  in  a  kettle  of  cold  water  and  put  on  the 
fire,  and  when  hot  strain  through  a  bag.  To  every  pint 
add  a  pound  of  juice,  and  boil  ten  minutes  ;  skim  well 
and  pour  into  tumblers  set  in  cold  water ;  let  it  cool 
a  few  minutes  before  putting  in  or  they  will  break. 
When  cool,  paste  tissue  paper  on  top,  and  set  in  a  dry 
place.  A  more  delicate  jelly  is  made  without  boiling. 
Masli  the  currants  and  put  a  pound  of  sugar  to  a  pint 
of  juice.  Put  in  glasses  and  paste  over  ;  then  set  in 
the  sun  a  few  days,  and  it  will  be  a  nice  jelly. 

PEACH  JELLY. 

Take  a  dozen  peaches,  cut  in  halves,  take  out  the 
pits  and  peel  them.  Take  a  pint  of  clarified  sugar  and 
w^ater,  (as  given  before ;)  when  it  has  boiled  and  been 
skimmed,  put  in  the  peaches,  with  the  kernels  broken ; 
boil  gently  for  ten  minutes  ;  then  take  out  four  or  five 
of  the  halves  for  garnishing  the  jelly;  let  the  rest  boil 
a  few  minutes  longer.  Take  three  lemons,  cut  off  the 
rinds,  and  squeeze  the  juice  through  a  sieve  into  a  basin ; 
pass  the  syrup  through  with  half  an  ounce  of  isinglass  ; 
run  through  three  times.  Fill  your  moulds  half-full  of 
jelly,  and  when  set  put  in  the  peaches,  and  a  little  more 
jelly,  and  when  that  is  set  fill  up  the.  mould. 

APPLE    JELLY. 

Pippins  or  crab-apples  are  best  for  jelly,  although 
any  tart  apples  will  answer.  Put  on  water  sufficient 
to  cover  them  ;  boil  until  tender  ;  then  strain  through 
a  bag,  and  make  as  currant  jelly.  They  are  nicer  boiled 
with  the  skins  on,  but  take  out  the  cores.  If  the  jelly 
is  too  pale  a  color,  it  may  be  colored  with  spinach-juice 
for  green,  or  for  pink  use  cochineal.  Quince  jelly  may. 
be  made  in  the  same  way  ;  add  lemon-juice. 

CALVES'  EEET   JELLY. 

Take  four  feet,  slit  them  in  two,  and  wash  them 
clean ;  then  put  them  in  water  sufficient  to  cover  them ; 
boil  several  hours,  or  until  reduced  to  two  quarts. 
Strain  it  through  a  sieve ;  then  let  it  remain  until  cold, 


186  EXCELSIOR   COOK   BOOK 

when  all  the  fat  must  be  taken  off,  and  the  sediment  at 
the  bottom  taken  off.  Put  in  a  preserving-kettle  and 
melt  slowly;  add  the  juice  and  grated  rind  of  two 
lemons.  Wash  six  eggs  clean,  and  beat  the  whites  and 
shells  together  and  mix  with  the  jelly.  Sweeten  to  the 
taste  with  loaf-sugar  ;  add  half  a  pint  of  white  wine  or 
Madeira.  Boil  slowly  fifteen  minutes,  and  then  strain 
through  a  jelly-bag  until  clear ;  if  not  clear  at  first,  run 
it  through  again.  If  not  sufiiciently  stiff,  add  half  an 
ounce  of  isinglass.  Flavor  with  any  sjoices  you  like,  or 
color  if  desired.  It  must  be  kept  in  a  cool  place  or  sur- 
rounded by  ice.  Ox-heel  may  be  made  in  this  way,  or 
sheep's  feet ;  also  pigs'  feet  make  nice  jelly. 

STKAWBERRY   JELLY. 

Put  them  in  a  pan  and  bruise  well,  adding  a  little 
water  and  powdered  sugar  ;  in  an  hour  or  two  strain 
through  a  jelly-bag  with  isinglass  dissolved  in  half  a 
pint  of  cold  water ;  mix  well  and  pour  into  moulds. 
Raspberry,  blackberry,  or  almost  any  other  kind  of 
fruit  may  be  made  in  the  same  way.  If  cherries  are 
used,  they  must  be  boiled,  and  the  juice  of  lemons 
added. 

COLORING   FOR   JELLIES    OR    CREAMS. 

The  juice  of  spinach-leaves  bruised  will  give  a  green 
color,  and  saftVon  will  make  a  yellow  hue.  For  color- 
ing pink  use  cochineal.  Bruise  it  with  a  knife-blade  ; 
then  put  in  a  little  white  brandy,  and  let  it  remain 
awhile  ;  then  strain  it.  This  is  for  immediate  use.  An- 
other method  is  to  take  fifteen  grains  of  cochineal  and 
reduce  to  a  powder ;  add  a  tea-spoonful  of  cream  of 
tartar,  and  boil  an  hour  in  half  a  pint  of  water ;  add 
a  bit  of  alum  the  size  of  a  pea. 

FRUIT  IN  JELLY. 
Put  half  a  pint  of  calves'  foot  jelly  in  a  basin,  and 
when  it  has  become  stiff"  lay  in  a  bunch  of  grapes  or  cur- 
rants, with  the  stems  upward ;  put  a  few  vines  over  and 
fill  up  with  Avarm  jelly ;  then  set  it  away  until  next  day, 
and  then  set  the  basin  in  hot  water  for  a  moment ;  then 
turn  out  carefully.     It  is  an  elegant  looking  dish 


AND   housekeeper's   AID.  187 

STKA"WBERRIES    FOR    CREAM. 

Take  equal  weiglit  of  sugar  and  berries,  mash  until 
perfectly  smooth.  Put  in  jars  and  j)aste  paper  over. 
It  will  kee}^  good  for  several  months. 

STRA^VBERRY    TART. 

Take  two-  quarts  of  ripe  strawberries  ;  add  a  pint  of 
wine,  half  a  pint  of  clarified  sugar — it  must  be  cold — 
the  juice  of  two  lemons  ;  mix  these  without  breaking 
the  berries,  and  put  in  a  puff-paste,  previously  baked. 

STRAWBERRIES   SOUFFLE. 

Pick  over  two  quarts  of  ripe  berries  ;  rub  them 
through  a  sieve  ;  add  a  pound  of  white  sugar  and  the 
whites  of  six  eggs  beat  to  a  froth  ;  mix  as  light  as  pos- 
sible, and  bake  in  a  moderate  oven  ;  when  done,  glaze 
on  top. 

PRESERVED    CURRANTS    FOR   PUDDINGS. 

Take  three  pounds  of  brown  sugar,  and  put  in  six 
pounds  of  currants  well  j^icked  over  and  washed ;  just 
let  them  boil  up,  and  then  pour  into  a  jar.  Wet  a  paper 
with  brandy,  and  when  cool  j^ut  on  top  ;  cover  tight 
and  set  in  a  cool  place,  or  they  may  be  put  on  plates 
and  dried. 

STRAWBERRIES   DRIED   IN    SUGAR. 

Pick  them  over,  and  take  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of 
sugar  to  four  of  strawberries ;  dry  in  a  warm  OA^en 
after  bread  has  been  taken  out.  Any  other  kind  of 
fruit  may  be  dried  in  the  «ame  way. 

PICKLED    BLACKBERRIES. 

Take  seven  pounds  of  ripe  berries  ;  add  one  pint  of 
weak  vinegar  and  tln*ee  pounds  of  sugar.  Only  let 
them  boil  up  once  ;  then  put  in  jars.  They  are  ex- 
cellent. 

TO  PRESERVE   CURRANTS   WITH    THE    STEMS  ON. 

Pick  them  with  the  stems  on  ;  melt  some  brown 
sugar  in  a  kettle — one  pound  to  a  pailful  of  currants 
will  be  enougli ;  keep  the  kettle  on  the  stove,  and  im- 
merse the  currants  in  tlie  sugar,  as  many  as  you  can  at 
a  time  ;  then  take  out  with  a  skimmer  and  spread  on  a 


188  EXCELSIOR   COOK   BOOK 

board  to  dry  in  tlie  sun.  Then  i^lace  them  in  an  oven 
a  short  time  to  prevent  their  getting  wormy.  Put  in 
a  bag  and  hang  in  a  dry,  cool  pkice.  The  liquor  in 
which  they  were  boiled  can  be  made  into  wine  or  jelly. 

ESSEI^CE  OF   NUTMEG. 

Dissolve  an  ounce  of  the  essential  oil  of  -nutmeg  in  a 
j^int  of  rectified  spirits.  Use  for  flavoring  cakes  and 
jiuddings. 

ESSENCE    OP    GINGER. 

Grate  three  ounces  of  race  ginger  and  put  in  a  quart 
of  good  brandy ;  take  the  yellow  part  of  a  fresh  lemon 
and  put  in.  Bottle  up,  and  shake  well  every  day  for 
eight  or  ten  days.  It  is  nice  for  flavoring  sweetmeats, 
and  a  little  mixed  with  water  answers  for  ginger  tea. 

EXTRACT    OF    LEMON    AND    ORANGE. 

Rub  the  yellow  23art  of  the  rind  with  lump-sugar, 
and  as  fast  as  the  sugar  becomes  saturated  wdth  the  oil 
put  in  a  china  bowl  or  jar ;  press  down  tight  and  cover 
close.     A  very  little  answers  for  flavoring. 

ORANGE    SYRUP. 

Squeeze  the  juice  through  a  sieve,  and  to  every  pint 
add  a  pound  and  a  half  of  sugar ;  boil  it  slowly  and 
skim  well;  when  cold,  bottle  it  tight.  This  is  nice 
added  to  a  butter  sauce  for  pudding  ;  it  is  also  nice  for 
custards  or  punch.  Lemons  may  be  done  the  same 
way.     If  not  likely  to  keep,  scald  and  skim  again. 

SPICE   BRANDY. 

Put  rose-leaves  into  brandy,  steej)  until  the  strength 
is  obtained,  then  drain  and  squeeze  the  rose-leaves,  and 
add  more,  and  continue  to  do  so  until  it  is  fully  impreg- 
nated with  the  flavor  ;  cork  tight.  Peach  meats  steeped 
in  brandy  are  nice  to  flavor  puddings,  pies,  etc. 

BLACKBERRRY   SYRUP.     NO.   1. 

Take  the  high  vine  blackberries,  as  the  low  ones 
do  not  possess  the  medicinal  virtues  that  the  high  ones 
do ;  set  the  berries  on  the  fire  and  mash  them,  and 
strain  through  a  flannel  bag ;  to  each  pint  put  a  pound 


AND   housekeeper's    AID.  189 

of  loaf-sugar,  a  tea-spoonful  of  cloves,  an  ounce  of  mace, 
and  an  ounce  of  cinnamon  pounded  fine  ;  boil  the  whole 
together  fifteen  minutes  ;  strain  again,  and  to  every 
pint  add  a  glass  of  French  brandy  ;  cork  tight  in  bot- 
tles and  keep  in  a  cool  place.  This  is  an  excellent 
remedy  for  the  bowel  complaint. 

BLACKBERBY   SYBUP.     WO.  2. 

To  two  quarts  of  juice  add  one  pound  of  loaf-sugar, 
half  an  ounce  of  nutmeg,  half  an  ounce  of  cinnamon,  a 
quarter  of  an  ounce  of  cloves,  the  same  of  allspice  ;  boil 
a  short  time,  and  when  cold  add  a  pint  of  French 
brandy. 

ELDEBBERBY   SYBUP. 

Wash  and  mash  them,  then  squeeze  out  the  juice; 
to  each  pint  of  juice  put  a  pint  of  molasses  ;  boil  twen- 
ty minutes,  stirring  all  the  time  ;  when  cold,  add  four 
table-spoonfuls  of  brandy  to  each  quart ;  bottle  and 
cork  it  tight.  This  is  an  excellent  remedy  fot  a  tight 
cough. 

LEMON   JELLY. 

Take  half  a  dozen  lemons,  squeeze  out  the  juice,  put 
the  rinds  over  a  slow  fire  with  an  ounce  of  isinglass 
and  a  pint  of  boiling  water  ;  when  the  isinglass  is  dis- 
solved, add  the  juice  and  sweeten  to  the  taste  with  loaf- 
sugar  ;  boil  a  moment,  then  color  it  with  any  thing  you 
like,  and  pass  through  a  jelly-bag  without  expressing  ; 
fill  your  glasses  and  paste  over.  Orange  jelly  may  be 
made  in  the  same  way. 

^V^IWE   JELLY. 

Take  a  pint  of  wine,  the  same  of  water,  and  boil ; 
then  add  two  ounces  of  isinglass,  previously  dissolved 
in  a  little  water ;  pour  in  while  boiling,  and  sweeten  to 
the  taste.     Put  in  your  glasses. 

ISINGLASS   JELLY. 

Boil  tAVO  quarts  of  water  with  a  quarter  of  a  pound 
of  isinglass,  put  some  lemon-peel  in  a  basin  and  strain 
the  liquor  on  it,  with  four  cloves,  or  more  if  you  like, 
and  half  a  pound  of  sugar  ;  let  it  remain  where  it  will 


190  EXCELSIOR   COOK   BOOK 

keep  warm  an  hour  or  more,  then  take  out  the  lemon- 
peel  and  cloves,  and  add  two  wine-glasses  of  brandy. 
This  is  nice  for  parties. 

TO  PKESERVE   LEMON   JUICE. 

Squeeze  and  strain  the  juice  into  a  dish,  and  add  a 
pound  of  loaf-sugar  to  every  pint  of  juice,  and  stir  un- 
til dissolved,  then  bottle  and  seal  up,  or  tie  bladders 
over  it,  and  keep  in  a  cool  place. 

A  SUBSTITUTE   EOK  FRESH   LEMONS. 

Take  one  ounce  of  the  best  oil  of  lemon,  and  strong 
rectified  spirits  four  ounces ;  put  in  a  bottle  and  add 
the  spirits  by  degrees,  until  it  cuts  the  oil.  This  pos- 
sesses all  the  fragrance  and  flavor  of  the  freshest  lemon- 
peel. 

LEMON  PICKLE. 
Take  six  lemons,  quarter  and  take  out  the  seeds,  put 
them  in  a  jar  and  sprinkle  on  two  ounces  of  salt ;  let  it 
remain  three  days,  well  covered,  then  add  nutmegs 
sliced,  cloves,  mace,  and  mustard-seed  ;  boil  a  quart  of 
vinegar  and  pour  over  the  ingredients  ;  cork  tight,  and 
it  will  be  fit  for  use  in  a  week.  It  is  an  improvement 
to  most  sauces,  particularly  to  fish  sauce. 

QUINCES   PRESERVED   "WHITE. 

Pare  and  core  them,  then  strew  powdered  sugar  over 
them,  filling  up  the  hole,  add  a  small  quantity  of  water 
at  first,  then  more,  and  boil  quickly  ;  when  tender  and 
clear,  they  are  done. 

PUFFS  OF  PRESERVED  FRUIT. 

Roll  out  good  puff-paste,  a  quarter  of  an  inch  thick, 
and  cut  in  squares,  about  four  inches  ;  lay  jam  of  any 
kind  on  each  one,  double  them  over,  and  cut  in  hali- 
moons  with  a  tin  cutter  ;  lay  them  on  paper  on  a  bak- 
ing plate,  ice  them,  and  bake  in  a  slow  oven  from  fif- 
teen to  twenty  minutes,  taking  care  not  to  color  the 
icing. 

TO   KEEP   GRAPES   IN   BRANDY. 

Take  close  bunches,  not  over  ripe,  put  them  in  ajar, 
and  sprinkle  a  good  quantity  of  white  sugar  over  them  ; 


AND    housekeeper's    AID.  191 

fill  up  with  brandy.  Tie  down  with  a  bladder,  and 
keep  in  a  dry  place.  Prick  each  grape  before  laying- 
do  Avn. 

.  TRANSPARENT  CRUST  TOR  TARTS. 
Take  twelve  ounces  of  butter,  well  washed  and  with- 
out salt,  melted  without  being  oiled ;  when  cool,  add 
one  well-beaten  egg,  and  stir  into  a  pound  of  dried 
flour ;  make  the  paste  very  thin,  line  the  patty-pans 
quickly,  and  when  putting  the  tarts  into  the  oven,  brush 
them  over  with  water  and  sift  sugar  over  them. 

PEACHES  IN    BRANDY.     NO.   2. 

Put  them  in  a  preserving-pan  with  cold  water  on 
them,  let  them  simmer  slowly  ;  when  they  begin  to  be 
soft,  they  are  done ;  then  drain  on  a  sieve  ;  they  will  not 
all  be  done  at  the  same  time,  but  must  be  taken  out  one 
at  a  time  ;  wipe  dry,  and  when  cold  put  in  glasses,  dis- 
solve powdered  sugar  in  brandy,  and  fill  up. 

TO    CANDY   FRUIT. 

Make  a  syrup  of  sugar,  dip  in  the  fruit  quickly,  then 
lay  on  a  sieve  aiid  immerse  in  hot  water,  to  take  off  the 
syrup ;  put  it  on  a  napkin  before  the  fire  to  dry,  and 
repeat  the  process  ;  sift  over  the  fruit  double-refined 
sugar  on  all  sides,  till  quite  white,  then  place  them  on 
the  shallow  part  of  the  sieve  and  place  in  an  oven  to 
dry,  turn  two  or  three  times  while  drying  ;  be  careful 
not  to  scorch  them  ;  do  not  allow  them  to  get  cold  till 
dry. 

PINE-APPLE    TARTS. 

Pare  a  large  pine-apple  and  take  out  the  core,  cut  it 
in  strips,  mix  with  sugar,  and  let  it  stand  till  there  is 
sufficient  juice  to  stew  it,  and  when  stewed  quite  soft 
mash  it  with  a  spoon  and  let  it  cool ;  then  mix  half  a 
pint  of  cream  and  fill  your  shells  with  it ;  grate  sugar 
on  top. 

PLUMS    IN    BRANDY. 

Take  plums  not  too  ripe,  twelve  pounds ;  prick  them 
and  put  in  cold  water  over  the  fire  ;  when  the  water 
boils,  skim  out  carefully  and  put  them  in  a  pan  of  cold 
water ;  clarify  three  pounds  of  sugar ;  put  the  plums 


192  EXCELSIOK   COOK   BOOK 

in  and  boil  up  ;  let  them  remain  two  days ;  then  drain 
off  and  boil  the  syrup  alone ;  then  boil  up  the  plums, 
and  the  next  day  drain  them  and  put  in  bottles  ;  then 
boil  the  syrup  down  more,  and  Avhen  cold  add  sufficient 
brandy  to  cover  the  fruit ;  stir  well  and  strain ;  then 
pour  the  syrup  over  the  plums.    Cork  the  bottles  tight. 

CANDIED   PLUMS. 

Cut  them  in  halves  and  take  out  the  stones ;  lay  them 
on  a  shallow  dish ;  sprinkle  sugar  over  them  and  set 
them  into  a  warm  oven  an  hour ;  take  them  out  and 
spread  on  plates  to  dry.  Other  fruits  may  be  done  in 
this  way. 

TO  PBEPAKE  ANY  KIND  OF  FRUIT  FOR  BRANDY. 

Take  the  quantity  desired,  gathered  before  they  are 
perfectly  ripe  ;  prick  them  and  lay  them  in  cold  water 
and  set  over  the  fire,  keeping  the  water  nearly  boiling 
till  the  fruit  will  give  to  the  touch ;  then  skim  out  care- 
fully and  put  into  cold  water ;  drain  off  and  add  more 
cold  water ;  when  perfectly  cold,  put  in  bottles ;  if  any 
is  broken,  do  not  put  it  in.  Have  a  sufficient  quantity 
of  clarified  sugar  ready ;  put  double  its  quantity  of 
brandy  together ;.  mix  well  and  pour  over  the  fruit. 
Seal  up. 

BLACK  BUTTER. 

To  one  pound  of  sugar  put  three  pounds  of  any  kind 
of  fruit,  currants,  raspberries,  cherries,  etc. ;  stew  till 
thick.     Nice  for  children. 

TO   PREPARE   FRUIT   FOR   CHILDREN. 

Take  sliced  apples,  plums,  cherries,  currants,  or  any 
kind  of  ripe  fruit ;  put  a  layer  in  a  stone  jar  with  a 
layer  of  sugar ;  set  it  in  a  saucepan  of  water,  and  let 
it  remain  till  done.     Eat  with  bread  or  rice. 

ICING  FOR   TARTS. 

Beat  the  white  of  an  egg  till  light ;  wash  the  tarts  over 
with  it,  using  a  feather ;  then  sift  powdered  sugar  over. 

PINE-APPLES   "WITHOUT   PRESERVING. 

Take  those  that  are  fully  ripe ;  pare  off  the  rind  ;  cut 
in  Blices  half  an  inch  thick ;  allow  a  pound  of  sugar  to 


AND   housekeeper's   AID.  195 

every  pound  of  apple.  Put  a  layer  in  a  glass  jar,  then  a 
layer  of  sugar,  and  so  continue  until  full ;  set  the  jar  in 
a  kettle  of  cold  water  with  straw  at  the  bottom,  and 
heat  up  until  warmed  through  ;  then  cover  the  jar  with 
bladder  or  waxed  cloth,  and  keep  in  a  dry,  cool  place. 

ORANGE   PRESERVES. 

Take  ripe  oranges,  and  put  in  a  kettle,  with  cold 
water  enough  to  cover  them  ;  put  over  the  fire  till  the 
water  is  scalding  hot ;  then  pour  off  the  water,  and  re- 
peat the  process  until  the  water  has  no  bitter  taste ; 
then  make  a  nice  syrup  in  clear  water,  allowing  a  pound 
of  sugar  to  a  pound  of  fruit ;  boil  the  syrup  until  thick ; 
put  in  the  oranges  and  keep  covered  tight  four  or  five 
days  ;  then  take  out  the  fruit  and  scald  the  syrup  ;  put 
in  the  oranges  and  give  one  boil ;  then  put  in  jars  and 
cover  tight.     Very  nice  to  eat  with  ice  cream. 

COMPOTES   OP   FRUIT. 

Take  any  kind  of  fruit  and  boil  in  syrup  made  in  the 
proportion  of  one  half  pound  of  sugar  to  one  of  fruit. 
This  mode  is  for  immediate  use.  Apples  flavored  with 
lemon  or  oranges,  and  when  done  peel  and  core  ;  then 
fill  with  marmalade.  With  the  syrup  poured  over,  is 
nice  when  preserves  are  scarce. 

BAKED  APPLES  FOR  DESSERT. 

Take  juicy  apples  ;  pare  and  core  them  ;  place  in  a 

pan  and  fill  the  holes  with  sugar  and  cinnamon ;  put 

water  in  the  pan  to  prevent  their  burning,  and  bake 

until  tender ;  w^hen  cold,  serve  with  cream  or  boiled 

custard. 

RICE   JELLY. 

Boil  half  a  pound  of  whole  rice  with  a  pound  of  loaf- 
sugar  m  one  quart  of  water  till  it  becomes  a  glutinous 
mass.     Strain  ofi"  the  jelly  and  cool  in  moulds. 

ORANGE    JELLY. 

Boil  one  ounce  and  a  quarter  of  isinglass  in  one  pint 
of  water,  the  rind  of  an  orange,  cut  a  stick  of  cinnamon, 
and  three  ounces  of  loaf-sugar,  till  the  isinglass  is  dis- 
solved ;  then  squeeze  two  oranges  or  lemons,  and  enough 
9 


194  EXCELSIOR   COOK   BOOK 

oranges  to  make  a  pint  of  juice  ;  mix  all  together  and 
strain  into  a  basin  ;  set  it  in  a  cool  place  for  an  hour, 
and  when  it  begins  to  congeal  fill  your  moulds  ;  when 
used,  dip  the  mould  into  lukewarm  water  and  turn  on 
a  dish  ;  garnish  with  slices  of  orange  or  lemon. 

BUM   JELLY. 

Clarify  and  boil  to  a  sjrwp  a  pound  of  loaf-sugar ;  dis- 
solve one  ounce  of  isinglass  in  half  a  pint  of  water ; 
strain  it  into  the  sji'up  while  half  warm ;  when  nearly 
cold,  stir  in  a  quart  of  white  wine ;  mix  it  well  and  add 
two  table-spoonfuls  of  Jamaica  rum ;  stir  a  few  min- 
utes and  pour  into  glasses. 

ORANGES   FOR   DESSERT. 

Peel  and  slice  oranges ;  arrange  nicely  in  a  glass  dish, 
with  powdered  sugar  sprinkled  between  each  layer. 
If  you  like,  add  Madeira  wine  and  more  sugar  when 
served. 

APPLES   FOR  DESSERT. 

Pare  and  scoop  out  the  core ;  have  ready  a  syrup  fla- 
vored with  cinnamon  or  mace  ;  throw  in  and  boil  ten- 
der ;  when  cold,  serve. 

BAKED    QUINCES. 

Take  nice  ripe  quinces ;  bake  quicker  than  apples ; 
then  cut  them  open,  remove  the  core,  sprinkle  white 
sugar  over  them,  adding  rich  cream.     Eat  before  cold. 

LEMON   CUSTARD. 

Strain  three  wine-glassfuls  of  lemon-juice  through  a 
sieve ;  beat  nine  eggs  light ;  strain  and  add  to  the 
lemon-juice,  with  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  loaf-sugar, 
a  wine-glassful  of  white  wine,  half  a  glass  of  water, 
with  a  little  grated  lemon-peel ;  mix  well  together,  and 
pour  into  a  small  pail ;  set  it  in  a  kettle  of  hot  water, 
and  stir  until  it  becomes  thick. 

APPLES    AND    RICE. 

Boil  a  coffee-cupful  of  rice  in  milk,  with  a  stick  of 
cinnamon ;  pare  ten  or  twelve  apples ;  scoop  out  the 
core,  and  fill  up  with  raspberry  jam.     Border  a  deep 


AND    housekeeper's    AID.  195 

dish  with  paste  ;  put  in  the  apples,  leaving  a  space  be- 
tween, and  fill  up  with  the  rice.  Brush  the  Avhole  over 
with  the  yolk  of  egg,  and  sift  sugar  thickly  over  it ; 
form  a  pattern  on  top  with  sweetmeats  ;  then  bake  one 
hour  in  a  quick  oven. 

APPLE  JELLY  TO  USE  FOR  OTHER  FRUIT. 
Take  four  pounds  of  good  apples ;  after  they  are  pared 
and  cored,  put  them  in  a  stewpan  with  a  quart  ot  cold 
water ;  stew  till  the  fruit  is  broken ;  then  strain  through 
a  ielly-bag,  and  to  every  quart  of  juice  allow  a  pound 
and  a  half  of  sugar.     This  is  nice  to  preserve  other 

fruit  in.  _  ,  ^^ 

ORANGE   CUSTARD. 

Boil  the  rind  of  a  Seville  orange  very  tender  ;  then 
beat  it  to  a  paste  ;  add  to  it  the  juice  of  the  orange,  a 
table-SDOonful  of  good  brandy,  four  ounces  ot  sugar, 
the  yolks  of  four  ecrgs.  Beat  all  together  for  ten  min- 
utes. Then  pour  in  by  degrees  a  pint  of  boiling  cream, 
and  beat  until  cold.  Put  into  custard-dishes ;  place 
them  in  a  dish  of  hot  water  till  set ;  then  put  preserved 
orange  or  orange-chips  on  top. 

FRUIT   ICE   CREAM. 

Take  a  pine-apple  and  pare  off  the  rind ;  then  cut  the 
apple  in  slices  ;  put  a  layer  of  apple  and  white  sugar 
alternately.  Let  it  remain  until  a  syrup  is  formed ; 
then  drain  off  and  flavor  your  cream.  Pwaspberries  and 
strawberries  or  any  other  fruit  may  be  prepared  in  the 
same  way.  „  .  t,^ 

BOILED   CUSTARD. 

Scald  a  quart  of  milk  and  sweeten  to  the  taste.  Mix 
half  a  pint  of  cold  milk  with  five  well-beaten  eggs,  and 
stir  in  while  the  milk  is  boiling.  It  is  nicer  to  strain 
the  eo-frs  before  putting  them  in.  Flavor  as  soon  as 
stirreTin,  and  pour  into  a  dish.  If  you  wish  to  orna- 
ment it,  beat  the  whites  of  three  of  the  eggs  with  jelly, 
and  put  on  top. 

TO   MAKE   MAPLE    SUGAR. 

Strain  the  sap  before  putting  over  to  boil ;  put  it  in 
u'on  kettles,  and  keep  it  constantly  boiling.     Have  two 


196  EXCELSIOR   COOK   BOOK 

large  kettles  ;  take  out  of  one  and  put  into  the  other  to 
keep  it  boiling ;  fill  up  the  one  taken  from  with  cold 
sap,  and  continue  this  until  you  sugar  off,  which  should 
be  done  as  often  as  you  can  conveniently,  or  every  other 
day.  This  is  done  by  straining  the  syrup  through  a 
bag  like  a  jelly-bag  ;  then  put  back  into  the  kettle,  and 
boil  until  nearly  thick  enough  for  sugar.  Clarify  as  for 
other  sugar,  and  skim  Avell.  If  you  want  it  white,  sti  v 
well  until  just  right  to  put  into  moulds,  which  should 
be  wot  with  cold  water  to  make  the  sugar  come  off 
easy.  Shallow  pans  are  preferable  to  kettles  to  use  in 
boiling. 

CANnsriNG   MAPLE   MOLASSES. 

Fill  your  cans  with  the  boiling  syrup,  and  seal  as  in 
fruit,  and  it  will  retain  the  flavor  and  keep  from  sour- 
ing from  spring  to  sj^ring. 

ABATER-MELON  SYKUPr 

Take  out  the  inside  of  ripe  water-melons  ;  boil  tJiem 
up  in  a  little  water ;  then  strain  through  a  cloth  and 
boil  down  to  a  syrnp.  This  is  nice  for  apple  butter 
and  apple  sauce. 

DRIED   TOMATOES. 

Pour  on  boiling  water,  to  take  off  the  skins ;  then 
cook  them  until  half  cooked  away ;  add  a  tea-cupful  of 
sugar  and  a  table-spoonful  of  salt  to  four  quarts  ;  then 
sj^read  on  plates,  and  dry  in  a  warm  oven ;  put  in  layers 
with  paper  between.  When  used,  stew  slowly  in  a  good 
deal  ot  water ;  then  season  with  pepper  and  butter.' 

TO    KEEP    TOMATOES    A   YEAR. 

Prepare  as  above,  and  add  mace,  cloves,  pepper,  with 
salt  and  sugar.  Put  in  jars  and  run  mutton  suet — or 
lard  will  answer — over  them. 

TO   DRY   TOMATOES   FOR  PIES. 

Take  the  skins  off  in  the  usual  way,  then  slice  thin 
and  sprinkle  sugar  over  them,  then  dry  in  an  oven ; 
soak  a  little  while  in  cold  water  before  using ;  add  a 
little  lemon. 


AND    housekeeper's   AID.  ]  97 

"WHITE    POT. 

Whip  four  eggs  liglit,  add  a  pint  of  cream,  nutmeg 
and  sugar,  then  cut  very  thin  a  few  slices  of  bread,  and 
lay  in  a  dish  ;  pour  the  eggs  and  cream  over  it,  with  a 
cupful  of  raisins  and  a  small  piece  of  butter,  and,  if  re- 
quired, a  little  milk,  so  that  it  will  not  be  too  dry  when 
baked ;  bake  slowly  half  or  three  quarters  of  an  hour. 

TOMATO    MAKMALADE. 

Strain  the  juice,  and  to  every  pint  add  three  fourths 
of  a  pound  of  sugar,  with  the  juice  and  rind  of  a  lemon  ; 
then  cook  until  clear. 

TO  PRESERVE  GROUND  CHERRIES. 

Take  them  from  the  husks  when  ripe,  but  not  suffi- 
ciently ripe  to  leave  the  skins  cracked ;  wash  them 
clean,  and  add  three  quarters  of  a  pound  of  sugar  to 
one  of  cherries  ;  put  in  a  stewpan  and  stew  gently  un- 
til clear,  then  slice  lemons  or  oranges,  and  put  a  layer 
in  your  jar  as  you  put  in  your  preserves.  Rhubarb 
may  be  made  in  the  same  way. 

TABLE  OF  WEIGHTS  AND  MEASURES. 

It  is  sometimes  more  convenient  to  measure  articles 
than  to  weigli  them.  I  give  the  exact  equivalents,  such 
as  I  have  used  myself. 

"WEIGHTS    AND    MEASURES. 

-White  sugar,  one  pound  and  a  half  is  one  quart ; 
brown  sugar,  if  damp,  one  pound  and  ten  ounces  one 
quart ;  loaf  or  broken  sugar,  one  pound  and  six  ounces 
one  quart ;  Indian  meal,  one  pound  two  ounces  one 
quart ;  wheat  flour,  one  pound  one  quart ;  rye  flour, 
one  i^ound  two  ounces  one  quart ;  eggs,  ten  eggs  one 
pound  ;  butter,  when  soft,  one  pound  is  one  pint ;  one 
table-spoonful  of  salt  is  one  ounce. 

MAKING    WINE. 

Wine  may  be  made  from  grapes  by  putting  them 
(after  sorting)  in  a  barrel  and  pounding  them  with  a 
pounder,  but  be  careful  not  to  break  the  seeds  ;  then 
put  in  a  coarse  cloth  and  submit  it  to  the  pressure.  A 
cheese  or  portable  cider-press  is  good  for  this  purpose. 


198  EXCELSIOR   COOK   BOOK 

"When  the  juice  is  all  pressed  out,  which  is  from  ten  to 
fifteen  quarts  per  bushel,  put  it  in  a  clean  keg  or  barrel, 
filling  within  a  few  inches  of  the  bung,  and  let  it  remain 
for  a  week  or  two,  when  the  wine  becomes  clear ;  fill 
the  cask  full  with  more  juice,  reserved  for  that  pur- 
pose ;  tighten  the  bung,  and  place  in  a  cool  place  un- 
til March,  when  it  should  be  racked  off  into  jugs  or 
bottles,  and  cork  securely.  Omit  the  bottling  until  the 
wine  is  a  year  old,  when  the  bottles  should  be  sealed 
hermetically.  If  you  wish,  you  can  add  a  little  sugar, 
say  one  ]30und  to  each  gallon,  but  with  perfectly  ripe 
grapes  it  is  not  necessary. 

CUKKAWT   WINE. 

Press  out  the  juice,  and  to  every  two  quarts  add  two 
of  water  and  three  pounds  of  sugar ;  put  in  a  brandy 
cask  if  one  can  be  obtained,  if  not,  a  clean  one  will  an- 
swer ;  fill  up  to  the  top,  when  it  will  run  over  and  work 
itself  clear  ;  then  cork  tight,  and  let  it  stand  six  months ; 
it  will  then  be  fit  for  use,  but  all  wines  improve  with 
age.     You  can  bottle  it  up. 

BLAGKBERKY   OR   RASPBERRY  WIWE. 

Measure  and  bruise  the  berries,  and  to  every  gallon 
add  one  quart  of  boiling  water,  let  it  stand  twenty-four 
hours,  stirring  it  occasionally,  then  strain  in  a  cask,  and 
to  every  gallon  of  juice  add  two  pounds  of  sugar;  cork 
it  tight,  let  it  stand  until  fit  for  use,  then  bottle. 

APPLE   ■NTV'INE. 

Take  nice  ripe  apples,  press  out  the  juice,  and  to 
every  gallon  add  one  pound  of  sugar  ;  let  it  stand  from 
four  to  six  montlis,  when  you  will  find  it  preferable  to 
almost  any  other  wine  ;  it  can  then  be  bottled. 

TOMATO   "WIISrE. 

Press  out  the  juice,  and  to  every  quart  of  juice  add 
one  pint  of  water  and  one  pound  of  sugar  ;  set  away  to 
ferment,  and  skim  until  done  fermenting ;  tlien  put  in  a 
tight  cask  and  leave  until  spring,  when  it  may  be  bot- 
tled ;  add  a  small  piece  of  ginger-root  to  each  bottle. 
All  wines  are  much  improved  by  putting  in  brandy 
casks. 


AND   HOUSEKEEPER'S   AID.  199 

VINEGAR. 

Every  liousewife  sliould  supply  her  family  with  good 
vinegar,  and  the  best  way  to  do  this  is  to  have  a  barrel 
of  cider  in  the  fall  placed  in  the  cellar,  and  after  it  has 
worked,  draw  off  and  put  in  a  keg  ;  then  tack  over  the 
bung-hole  a  piece  of  gauze,  and  shake  up  as  often  as 
convenient,  and  in  a  few  months  you  will  have  the  best 
of  vinegar.  Keep  all  your  cold  tea,  and  rinsings  of 
sweetmeat-jars,  juice  of  fruit,  etc.,  and  pour  into  the 
barrel,  and  when  it  gets  down  in  the  keg  fill  up  from 
the  barrel.  This  is  decidedly  the  best  vinegar  as  well 
as  the  chea.pest. 

^WHISKY   VINEGAR. 

Take  five  gallons  of  soft  water,  two  quarts  of  whisky, 
two  quarts  of  molasses,  half  a  pint  of  good  yeast ;  roll 
a  sheet  of  white  paper  in  molasses  and  put  in  the  mix- 
ture ;  place  in  the  sun,  and  in  six  weeks  or  two  months 
it  will  be  good  vinegar. 

MAPLE    VINEGAR. 

Take  the  sap  that  runs  from  the  maple-tree  in  the 
spring  and  put  it  in  a  cask,  roll  a  sheet  of  white  paper 
in  molasses  and  put  in  for  the  mother,  and  in  a  few 
weeks  you  will  have  good  vinegar.  The  sap  that  runs 
after  making  sugar  when  the  buds  begin  to  come  out 
will  answer.  If  three  barrels  are  boiled  into  one,  it  will 
be  stronger. 

TO    MAKE    BEER. 

MOLASSES    BEER. 

Six  quarts  of  water,  two  quarts  of  molasses,  half  a 
pint  of  yeast,  two  spoonfuls  of  cream  of  tartar ;  bottle 
after  standing  tAvelve  hours. 

WHITE    SPRUCE    BEER. 

Five  gallons  of  water,  three  pounds  of  white  sugar, 
a  cup  of  good  yeast,  with  enough  of  the  essence  of 
spruce  to  give  it  a  flavor ;  when  fermented,  bottle  it 
up.     It  is  a  delightful  beverage  in  warm  weather. 

ROOT   BEER. 

Take  five  gallons  of  water,  a  few  hops,  some  spruce, 
wintergreens,   sassafras,   hemlock,  difierent   kinds   of 


200  EXCELSIOPw   COOK   BOOK 

roots,  such  as  burdocks,  dandelions,  dock,  sweet-apple 
bark,  etc. ;  boil  and  strain  ;  add  a  pint  of  molasses  and 
a  pint  of  yeast ;  a  little  ginger  will  be  an  addition  ;  let 
it  work,  and  it  will  make  a  healthy  drink. 

HARVEST   DRINK. 

One  gallon  of  water,  one  pint  of  molasses  or  less  will 
do,  half  a  pint  of  vinegar,  a  table-spoonful  of  ginger. 

LEMONADE. 

Cut  the  lemon  in  slices,  press  out  the  juice,  put  on 
water,  and  sweeten  with  loaf-sugar  to  suit  the  taste. 

ELDERBERRY   WINE. 

To  every  two  quarts  of  elderberry-juice,  add  two  of 
water,  one  quarter  of  a  pound  ginger-root,  one  quarter 
of  a  pound  of  allspice,  two  ounces  of  stick  cinnamon, 
two  ounces  of  nutmeg  powdered,  two  ounces  of  cloves 
and  mace  each ;  sixty  pounds  of  sugar  added  to  this 
quantity  of  spices  will  make  forty  gallons  of  wine.  Mix 
well  together  and  boil  an  hour ;  then  strain  and  set 
away  to  cool ;  when  milk- warm,  put  in  your  barrel ; 
then  toast  a  slice  of  bread  and  dip  in  new  yeast,  and 
put  in  the  barrel ;  keep  it  uncorked  until  it  has  done 
fermenting,  then  cork  it  tight  for  three  months ;  then 
draw  carefully  off  and  wash  the  barrel  clean ;  turn  back 
your  wine,  and  add  two  jjounds  of  raisins  and  from  ten 
to  fifteen  pounds  of  sugar,  also  three  gallons  of  brandy. 
It  will  be  fit  for  use  in  a  week,  but  better  when  older. 

GINGER  WINE. 

Take  three  gallons  of  water  and  add  three  pounds  of 
sugar,  four  ounces  of  race  ginger  well  washed ;  boil  to- 
gether one  hour;  strain  through  a 'sieve ;  when  luke- 
warm, put  in  a  cask,  adding  three  lemons  cut  in  slices, 
and  two  gills  of  yeast.  Shake  it  well  and  then  cork  it 
tight ;  then  let  it  stand  a  week  or  until  it  becomes 
clear ;  then  bottle,  and  it  will  be  fit  to  drink  in  a  fort- 
night. 

SPRUCE    BEER. 

Boil  a  handful  of  hops  and  twice  as  much  sassafras- 
root  in  ten  gallons  of  water  ;  then  strain  it  and  pour  in 


AND    UOUSEKEEPEe's    AID.  201 

while  hot  one  gallon  of  molasses,  two  spoonfuls  of  the 
essence  of  spruce,  two  of  powdered  ginger,  and  one  of 
pounded  allspice ;  then  put  in  a  cask,  and  when  suffi- 
ciently cold  add  half  a  pint  of  yeast ;  stir  it  well,  cork 
it  tight,  and  when  fermented  and  clear,  bottle  it  tight. 

GRAPE    WINE. 

Bruise  the  grapes  when  ripe ;  to  each  gallon  of  grapes 
put  one  gallon  of  Avater,  and  let  it  remain  a  week  with- 
out stirring  ;  then  drain  off  the  liquor  carefully,  and  to 
each  gallon  add  three  pounds  of  white  sugar.  Let  it 
stand  until  fermented ;  then  cork  tight.  In  six  months 
it  will  be  fit  to  bottle. 

CHEERY   BOUNCE. 

Take  two  quarts  of  the  wild  black  cherry ;  pound 
them,  in  order  to  break  the  pits ;  then  add  two  pounds 
of  sugar,  one  gallon  of  good  rum  or  apple  whisky ;  put 
in  a  tight  cask,  and  shake  every  day  for  three  months  ; 
then  run  the  liquor  twice  through  a  thick  cloth  to  clear 
it ;  then  put  in  bottles  or  cask.  It  is  good  for  bowel 
complaints,  and  is  a  fine  tonic. 

A   RICH   AND   PLEASANT   WINE. 

Take  new  cider,  and  mix  as  much  honey  as  will  sup- 
port an  egg ;  boil  gently  fifteen  minutes  in  tin ;  skim 
well,  and  when  cool,  put  in  a  cask,  but  have  not  quite 
full.  In  six  months  it  will  be  fit  to  bottle ;  m  six  weeks 
it  will  be  fit  to  drink.  It  will  be  less  sweet  if  kept 
longer  in  the  cask.  This  will  serve  for  cooking  pur- 
poses where  sweet  wine  is  directed. 

BLACK   CURRANT   WINE. 

Take  three  quarts  of  juice,  the  same  of  water,  three 
pounds  of  sugar  ;  put  in  a  cask,  reserving  a  little  for 
filling  up.  Let  it  remain  in  a  Avarm  room,  and  it  will 
ferment ;  then  skim,  and  when  the  fermentation  is  over, 
fill  up  with  the  reserved  liquor.  When  done  working, 
add  three  quarts  of  brandy  to  forty  quarts  of  wine. 
Bung  up  for  nine  months  ;  then  bottle,  and  the  settlings 
run  through  a  jelly-bag  until  clear ;  then  bottle  that. 
It  will  be  good  in  a  year,  but,  like  all  other  wine,  re- 
quires age. 

9* 


202  EXCELSIOR   COOK   BOOK 


EXCELLENT   RAISIN   'WINE. 

Take  a  gallon  of  spring-water ;  put  eight  pounds 
of  fresh  Smyrnas  in  a  tub  ;  stir  thoroughly  eA^ery  clay 
for  a  month ;  then  press  the  raisins  in  a  bag  until  dry ; 
put  the  liquor  in  a  cask,  and  when  it  has  done  hissing, 
pour  in  a  quart  of  the  best  brandy ;  stop  it  close  for 
twelve  months ;  then  rack  off  the  clear  and  filter  through 
a  thick  flannel ;  then  add  another  quart  of  brandy. 
Cork  it  tight  and  keep  three  years  ;  then  bottle. 

IMPERIAL. 

Take  two  ounces  of  cream  of  tartar  and  the  juice  and 
paring  of  two  lemons  ;  put  in  a  stone  jar ;  pour  seven 
quarts  of  boiling  water  on ;  stir  and  keep  close.  When 
cold,  sweeten  with  loaf-sugar,  and  then  strain  and  bottle 
it,  adding  half  a  pint  of  rum.  This  is  a  pleasant  and 
wholesome  drink. 

MEAD. 

Take  three  quarts  of  warm  water,  two  pounds  of 
drained  honey,  stirring  it  until  the  honey  is  dissolved  ; 
then  turn  into  a  cask,  leaving  the  bung  out ;  bottle  as 
soon  as  fermented.     Add  a  lemon  to  each  gallon. 

BLACK   CURRANT   "WINE.    NO.  2. 

Pick  the  currants  when  fully  ripe ;  squeeze  out  the 
juice,  and  to  every  gallon  of  juice  add  six  quarts  of 
water,  and  to  each  gallon  of  this  mixture  add  three  and 
a  half  pounds  of  brown  sugar  ;  mix  well  together  and 
strain.  Put  into  a  cask  till  fermentation  takes  place  ; 
then  cork  well. 

CIDER  WINE.    NO.  2. 

Take  a  barrel  of  good  cider  ;  let  it  remain  two  days 
after  coming  from  the  press  ;  draw  off,  and  put  in  an- 
other barrel  with  sixty  pounds  of  brown  sugar  and  one 
pound  of  isinglass.  After  undergoing  fermentation, 
bottle  it  for  use. 

GRAPE    -WINE.    NO.  2. 

Gather  the  grapes  when  about  half  ripe  ;  pound  them 
in  a  tub,  and  to  every  quart  of  fruit  add  two  of  water ; 
let  it  remain  two  weeks ;  then  draw  off,  and  to  every 


AND   housekeeper's   AID.  203 

gallon  of  liquor  add  three  pounds  of  sugar.  When  the 
sugar  is  dissolved,  cask  it,  and  when  done  working, 
cork  tight.  In  six  months  it  will  be  fit  to  drink,  when 
it  should  be  bottled. 

PEACH   CORDIAL. 

Take  a  peck  of  ripe,  juicy  peaches ;  j^are  and  cut  them 
from  the  stones  ;  crack  about  half  the  stones,  and  save 
the  kernels ;  leave  the  other  half  of  the  stones  whole,  and 
put  with  the  peaches,  also  the  meats.  Put  the  whole 
into  a  wide-mouthed  demijohn,  and  pour  on  two  gal- 
lons of  double-rectified  whisky ;  put  in  three  pounds 
of  lump-sugar ;  cork  tightly  for  three  months  ;  then 
bottle  it,  and  it  will  be  fit  for  use.  It  will  be  clearer  if 
strained. 

BLACKBERRY    CORDIAL. 

Take  nice  ripe  fruit  and  squeeze  out  the  juice  through 
a  linen  bag ;  allow  a  poimd  of  loaf-sugar  to  every  quart 
of  juice.  Put  it  into  a  preserving-kettle,  and  when  the 
sugar  is  melted,  set  it  on  the  stove  and  boil  to  a  thin 
jelly.  When  cold,  allow  a  quart  of  brandy  to  every 
quart  of  juice  ;  stir  together  and  bottle  immediately  ; 
it  is  ready  for  use.  Raspberry  cordial  is  made  the 
same  as  raspberry  vinegar,  except  whisky  is  used  in- 
stead of  white  vinegar. 

RHUBARB    OR  PIE-PLANT   'WINE.    WO.   1. 

Mash  and  strain,  and  then  add  a  pound  of  sugar  to 
every  two  quarts  of  juice  and  one  of  water  ;  then  pro- 
ceed as  for  currant  wine.  This  makes  a  most  excellent 
wine,  and  is  a  nice  wine  for  the  sick. 

ELDER  A^INE.    NO.  2. 

Take  eight  quarts  of  berries,  four  of  water ;  let  it 
stand  two  days ;  then  boil  one  hour ;  strain,  and  put 
three  pounds  of  sugar  to  every  gallon  ;  add  cloves,  cin- 
namon, one  ounce  each,  two  ounces  of  ginger ;  boil 
again,  and  work  with  slice  of  toast  dipped  in  yeast. 

LEMON    CORDIALr 

Pare  off  the  rind  of  eiglit  lemons  cut  in  shreds,  and 
put  in  a  large  bottle  ;  add  a  pint  of  spirits  of  wine  or 


204  EXCELSIOK   COOK   BOOK 

brandy,  a  dozen  bitter  almonds  bruised  and  blanched  ; 
let  it  remain  a  week.  Make  a  syrup  with  a  pound  of 
lump-sugar  ;  when  cool,  pour  into  the  bottle ;  let  stand 
a  week  longer  ;  then  filter  and  bottle  for  use. 

RHUBARB  -WINE.  NO.  2. 

Cut  the  stalks  of  the  rhubarb  plant  into  small  j^ieces ; 
boil  until  tender,  which  will  be  in  a  few  minutes  ;  no 
water  will  be  required,  if  washed  before  putting  over ; 
strain  through  a  bag  and  to  each  gallon  of  juice  add 
two  of  water,  and  four  pounds  of  sugar.  Let  it  remain 
forty-eight  hours  in  an  open  vessel ;  then  take  off  the 
scum,  and  add  one  pint  of  good  brandy  to  every  four 
gallons.  Put  it  in  a  tight  cask,  and  in  six  months  it 
will  be  fit  to  bottle.  Put  a  raisin  in  each  bottle,  and 
cork  tight,  after  which  seal  up.  This  is  equal  to  cham- 
pagne. 

RHUBARB    VINEGAR. 

Take  a  dozen  stalks  of  rhubarb,  about  middling  size  ; 
mash  them  fine  in  a  tub,  and  then  pour  on  five  gallons 
of  water ;  let  it  stand  twenty-four  hours  ;  then  strain 
and  add  nine  pounds  of  sugar  and  a  little  brewers' 
yeast ;  let  it  remain  where  it  will  be  warm  about  a 
month,  when  it  must  be  strained  and  put  back  in  the 
cask  again  until  it  becomes  vinegar,  and  it  will  equal 
French  vine2:ar. 

CURRANT   WINE.    NO.  2. 

Press  out  the  juice,  and  to  every  two  quarts  add  one 
of  water  and  three  pounds  of  sugar  ;  let  work  as  other 
wine ;  then  bottle.     This  makes  a  rich  wine. 

SHERBET. 

Boil  two  quarts  of  water,  eight  green  stalks  of  rhu- 
barb, a  lemon  sliced,  and  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  rai- 
sins ;  boil  half  an  hour ;  strain  and  add  orange  or  lemon 
syrup  to  suit  the  taste.  When  c(  Id,  it  will  be  ready  to 
drink. 

RATAFIA. 

Blanch  two  ounces  of  peach  and  apricot  kernels ; 
bruise  and  put  them  in  a  bottle,  and  nearly  fill  up  with 
brandy.     Dissolve  half  a  pound  of  white  sugar  candy 


AND    HOUSEKEEPERS   AID.  205 

in  a  cup  of  cold  water  ;  add  to  the  mixture  after  it  has 
stood  a  month  and  been  strained  ;  then  filter  through 
l^aper,  and  bottle  for  use. 

BASPBERRY. 

Pick  over  the  fruit  and  put  in  a  stone  jar,  and  set  the 
jar  in  a  kettle  of  warm  Avater  till  the  juice  will  run  ; 
strain,  and  to  every  pint  add  half  a  pound  of  sugar, 
give  one  boil,  and  skim ;  when  cold,  add  enough  quan- 
tities of  juice  and  brandy;  shake  well,  and  bottle. 

CURRANT    SHRUB. 

To  one  pint  of  currant-juice  i:>\it  a  pound  of  sugar ; 
boil  gently  eight  minutes ;  then  let  it  cool.  When 
almost  cold,  add  a  Avine-glassful  of  brandy  to  each  pint 
of  the  juice ;  bottle  and  cork  it  tight ;  keep  in  a  cool 
place. 

BERRRY  VINEGAR. 

Take  ripe  strawberries,  blackberries,  or  raspberries, 
and  mix  with  vinegar  in  proportion  of  three  quarts  of 
berries  to  one  of  vinegar.  Let  it  remain  two  or  three 
days,  then  strain  the  Avhole,  and  to  each  pint  put  a 
pound  of  white  sugar,  and  bottle  without  corking  tight. 
This  is  a  nice  summer  beverage  to  assuage  thirst  in 
fevers,  colds,  and  inflammatory  complaints ;  also  for 
those  in  good  health.  A  large  spoonful  mixed  with  a 
tumbler  of  cold  water. 

RASPBERRY   VINEGAR.    NO.  2. 

Pour  three  pints  of  the  best  white  wine  vinegar  on  a 
pint  and  a  half  of  fresh  gathered  red  rasj^berries  in  a 
stone  jar  ;  the  next  day  strain  the  liquor  over  the  same 
quantity  of  fresh  berries,  and  the  following  day  the 
same ;  then  strain  the  whole,  and  add  a  pound  of  white 
sugar  to  a  pint  of  juice.  When  the  sugar  is  dissolved, 
set  in  a  pot  of  water,  and  boil  one  hour,  skimming  as 
the  scum  rises  on  top.  Add  to  each  pint  a  glass  of 
brandy,  and  bottle  tight. 

LEMON  "WATER. 

Take  three  pounds  of  white  sugar,  two  ounces  of  tar- 
taric acid,  and  two  quarts  of  Avater ;  stir  up  and  add 


206  EXCELSIOR   COOK   BOOK 

the  whites  of  two  eggs  well  beaten  ;  set  in  a  kettle  of 
water  till  it  scalds  but  not  boil ;  when  cool,  strain  and 
add  lemon  sufficient  to  flavor  it.  Take  two  table-spoon- 
fuls of  it  to  two  thirds  of  a  tumbler  of  water.  If  wanted 
for  an  effervescing  drink,  stir  in  a  little  carbonate  of 
soda. 

GREEN    GOOSEBERIIY   "WIK"E. 

•  To  every  pound  of  fruit  add  a  quart  of  cold  water  ; 
let  it  stand  three  days  ;  then  strain,  and  to  every  gallon 
of  juice  add  three  quarts  sugar ;  to  every  twenty  quarts 
of  liquor,  one  bottle  of  brandy.  Hang  some  isinglass 
in  a  bag  in  the  cask;  when  it  has  stood  a  year,  plup  it, 
and  if  the  sweetness  is  sufficiently  gone,  bottle  it.  The 
gooseberries  should  be  green  but  full  grown. 

VINEGAR   MADE    FROM   BEETS. 

Take  one  bushel  of  the  sugar  beet ;  wash  them  clean ; 
then  grate  them  and  put  in  a  cheese  or  portable  cider- 
press  ;  put  the  juice  in  a  barrel,  cover  the  bung  with  a 
bit  of  grease  to  keep  out  the  flies ;  set  it  in  the  sun,  and 
in  two  weeks  it  will  be  fit  for  use.  One  bushek  will 
make  five  or  six  gallons  of  good  vinegar. 

GINGER  BEER. 

Pour  a  gallon  of  boiling  water  over  three  quarters 
of  a  pound  of  loaf-sugar,  one  ounce  and  a  quarter  of 
ginger,  the  rind  of  one  lemon ;  when  lukewarm,  add 
the  juice  of  the  lemon  and  half  a  cupful  of  lively  yeast. 
Make  it  in  the  evening  and  bottle  next  morning. 

MEAD. 

Wash  your  honeycomb  after  draining  the  honey,  and 
put  it  in  a  clean  barrel  or  keg ;  put  in  a  little  yeast,  and 
when  worked  enough,  draw  off  and  bottle  it.  Lemons 
or  oranges  are  a  great  improvement. 

MILK   PUNCH. 

Beat  up  two  eggs  ;  mix  them  with  a  quart  of  milk  ; 
sugar,  nutmeg,  and  lemon-peel  to  your  taste.  Boil  it 
gently,  stirring  all  the  time,  till  thick  enough  ;  take  it 
from  the  fire  and  add  a  quarter  of  a  pint  of  rum,  stir- 
ring all  the  time  the  rum  is  poured  in. 


AND   housekeeper's    AID.  207 

AN    EXCELLENT   VINEGAK. 

Take  one  gallon  soft  water ;  add  one  pint  of  sugar 
or  sorghum  molasses  ;  stir  till  the  sugar  is  dissolved  ; 
then  put  in  a  gallon  of  ripe  tomatoes.  In  a  few  days 
you  Avill  have  nice  pickles  and  good  vinegar. 

SANGAREE. 

Take  any  kind  of  wine ;  add  cold  water  with  nutmeg 
and  sugar.  Just  before  serving  grate  ice  in  the  glasses 
imtil  heaped  up.     Serve  with  cake. 

HO^W   TO   MAKE   COFFEE   AND    TEA. 

Procure  the  Old  Java  coffee  ;  pick  out  the  stones  and 
bad  grains ;  then  dry  well,  and  brown  it  on  the  stove 
in  a  spider  until  about  the  color  of  walnut.  It  must  be 
constantly  stirred,  or  else  it  will  brown  uneven  ;  stir  in 
a  small  piece  of  butter ;  then  turn  out  in  a  box  kept  for 
the  purpose,  and  cover  tight,  as  it  loses  its  flavor  if  left 
uncovered.     Never  grind  until  just  before  using. 

In  making,  allow  one  table-spoonful  to  each  person  ; 
have  your  coffee-pot  well  rinsed  and  free  from  grounds, 
as  old  grounds  spoil  the  taste.  For  six  persons  take 
the  half  of  the  white  of  an  egg,  (as  more  egg  prevents 
the  strength  from  extracting  unless  boiled  a  long  time, 
which  injures  the  taste  ;)  beat  it  Avell  with  the  coffee, 
adding  a  little  cold  water ;  put  in  the  coffee-pot  and 
turn  boiling  water  on  ;  let  it  boil  not  longer  than  five 
minutes  ;  poUr  out  some  and  turn  back  to  clear  the 
spout,  and  then  turn  into  an  urn.  Have  rich  cream,  or 
scalded  milk  with  the  yolk  of  an  egg  beat  stirred  into  it. 
Good  sugar  is  also  necessary  to  have  good  coffee.  This 
is  the  best  mode  of  making  coffee  I  have  ever  tried. 

Another  way  is  to  leech  it.  This  can  be  done  by 
having  a  strainer  in  the  top  of  the  coffee-pot,  and 
pour  on  boiling  water,  and  wlien  the  water  is  drained 
through  it  is  ready  for  use.  Nothing  will  be  required 
to  settle  it.  The  Old  Dominion  coffee-pot  is  made  for 
this  purpose. 

TEA. 

Green  tea  should  not  be  boiled  ;  turn  boiling  water 
on,  and  after  standing  where  it  is  warm  five  or  ten  miu- 


208  EXCELSIOR   COOK   BOOK 

Tites,  fill  up.  Black  tea  should  boil  ten  or  fifteen  min- 
utes. Put  a  little  water  on  at  first  and  boil ;  then  fill 
up  and  let  it  boil  again.  Half  black  and  half  green  is 
generally  preferred. 

CHOCOLATE   AND  COCOA. 

Take  one  quart  of  water,  three  spoonfuls  of  scraped 
chocolate.  Let  it  boil  fifteen  or  twenty  minutes ;  then 
pour  in  one  pint  of  rich  milk,  and  sugar  to  your  taste  ; 
let  it  boil  up  ;  then  take  it  off  and  stand  a  few  minutes, 
when  it  will  settle  ;  pour  out. 

Cocoa  is  made  nearly  the  same,  and  is  much  used  for 
delicate  people  who  are  out  of  health.  Directions  al- 
ways come  with  the  cocoa,  on  the  wrapper. 

MALT   COFFEE. 

This  comes  already  prepared,  and  is  a  great  saving, 
for  it  is  almost  equal  to  the  best  Java  coffee.  It  must 
be  boiled  half  an  hour  or  longer. 

S'WEET    POTATO    COFFEE. 

Wash  them  clean,  and  dry  well ;  then  put  them  in 
the  oven  and  brown  them,  as  coffee ;  grind  and  turn 
boiling  water  on,  or  boil  without  grinding ;  but  they 
will  require  more  boiling  to  extract  the  strength.  This 
is  a  good  way  of  using  the  small  sweet  potatoes.  Pars- 
nips scraped  and  browned  make  very  good  coffee. 

Coffee  may  be  nicely  settled  by  putting  in  (while 
boiling)  a  small  piece  of  codfish  skin  in  the  place  of 
egg.  Let  it  boil  five  or  ten  minutes  ;  then  turn  in  a 
little  cold  water  and  let  it  stand  two  or  three  minutes, 
when  it  will  be  as  clear  as  if  settled  with  an  egg. 

Rye  may  be  washed  and  dried,  and  nicely  browned 
about  the  color  of  coffee  ;  then  use  half  rye  and  half 
Java  coffee,  and  very  few  persons  can  detect  the  rye. 
It  is  said  that  ochra,  burnt  like  coffee,  makes  a  bever- 
age very  much  like  coffee. 

TO    MAKE    MACARONL 

Beat  four  eggs  ;  strain  them  and  add  flour  enough 
to  work  into  a  paste  ;  work  it  well ;  cut  off  a  small  bit 
at  a  time ;  roll  it  out  as  thin  as  paper ;  cut  it  with  a 


AND    housekeeper's    AID.  209 

paste-cutter  or  knife  into  very  narrow  strips,  tAvist  and 
lay  them  upon  a  clean  cloth  in  a  dry,  warm  place.  In 
a  few  hours  they  will  be  dry  ;  then  put  them  in  a  box 
with  white  paper  top  and  bottom.  It  may  be  used  for 
soup. 

TO    PRESERVE    SWEET    MARJORAM. 

Beat  up  the  white  of  an  egg ;  add  a  little  white 
sugar ;  take  some  marjoram  and  rub  on  a  glass  that  is 
quite  clean,  and  lay  it  in  the  form  of  the  glass ;  so  do  it 
with  the  egg ;  then  sear  it  with  the  sugar  on  it,  and 
lay  on  j^aper  to  dry. 

SOUR-KROUT. 

Cut  your  cabbage  fine  with  a  knife  fixed  in  a  frame, 
pack  tight  in  a  clean  barrel,  with  salt  between  each  layer 
of  cabbage  ;  pound  it  down  very  tight,  every  layer, 
until  full ;  then  put  a  weight  on  top,  and  put  the  cover 
on  tight ;  put  in  a  warm  cellar  for  three  or  four  weeks ; 
then  take  off  the  scum  which  will  rise  on  top,  and  lay 
a  clean  cloth  on  ;  the  juice  should  always  stand  on  top. 
It  will  keep  for  years.    Eat  cold  or  fry  in  a  little  gravy. 

FLAVORED  BUTTERMILK. 

Put  six  quarts  of  fresh  buttermilk  in  a  strainer ;  hang 
in  a  cool  place  two  or  three  days,  or  until  it  drains 
well ;  then  put  in  a  dish,  and  add  a  glass  of  brandy  or 
wine  ;  sweeten  with  loaf-sugar  ;  then  color  with  rasp- 
berry jam ;  whisk  it  well  together,  and  serve  in  a  glass. 

BUTTER    AND    CHEESE. 

THE    KEEPING  OF  COWS. 

There  is  a  great  difference  in  the  quality  of  milk ; 
some  cows  gave  much  richer  milk  than  otliers.  Much 
depends  upon  the  treatment  of  cows  in  the  quality  of 
butter  and  cheese.  In  the  first  place,  farmers  should 
endeavor  to  procure  the  best  breed,  not  the  largest  and 
best  looking,  but  those  that  produce  the  best  quality 
of  milk.  It  is  not  those  that  give  the  most  milk  that 
are  the  most  profitable  to  keeprbut  the  richness  of  the 
milk  should  be  looked  to.  Cows  must  be  kept  well 
through  the  winter,  and  allowed  to  come  in  about  the 


210  EXCELSIOR   COOK   BOOK 

middle  or  first  of  April,  to  be  good  dairy  cows.  A  few 
weeks  before  calving  they  should  be  messed  as  often  as 
once  a  day,  if  not  twice.  The  calves  should  be  taken 
away  within  a  week ;  the  sooner  the  better,  as  they 
more  easily  learn  to  feed  if  taken  away  at  once.  Warm 
the  milk  and  feed  twice  a  day,  or,  if  convenient,  they 
may  be  fed  at  noon  also.  After  the  first  week  a  little 
skim-milk  or  buttermilk  may  be  given,  the  latter  being 
the  best  if  they  will  drink  it.  I  have  seen  splendid 
calves  brought  up  upon  nothing  but  buttermilk,  and 
turned  into  pasture.  Some  let  them  run  with  the  cows 
— two  calves  with  one  cow.  If  the  cow  is  healthy,  the 
milk  will  be  good  after  the  seventh  or  eighth  milking.. 
They  should  always  be  milked  in  warm  weather  before 
the  sun  rises,  so  they  can  pasture  before  the  heat  be- 
comes oppressive,  and  should  be  milked  early  at  even- 
ing. Regularity  should  be  observed,  as  it  makes  a  dif- 
ference in  the  quantity  of  milk.  Always  milk  at  the 
same  hour  of  the  day.  It  is  well  to  have  one  cow  come 
in  the  first  of  January,  for  family  use,  and  where  there 
are  a  number  of  cows,  it  is  quite  as  profitable.  They 
should  be  salted  twice  a  week  or  oftener.  Carrots  are 
good  for  cows ;  turnips  spoil  the  taste  of  the  milk. 
They  should  never  be  allowed  to  run,  as  it  injures  the 
milk.  When  the  milk  is  strained,  it  should  be  put  in 
six-quart  pans,  only  filling  them  half-full,  as  the  milk 
will  only  rise  so  far  ;  if  more  is  put  in,  you  will  get  but 
little  more  cream.  Keep  in  a  cool,  dry  cellar,  not  too 
much  light,  and  so  that  the  wind  can  not  blow  in,  or 
the  cream  will  be  hard,  and  when  churned,  much  of  it 
will  remain  in  small  pieces,  and  you  will  not  get  as 
much  butter.  Every  thing  should  be  kept  perfectly 
clean  and  sweet.  Fresh  meat  or  vegetables  should 
never  be  put  in  a  milk-cellar.  An  ice-house  is  almost 
indispensable  to  making  butter,  but  if  you  have  a  cool 
cellar  and  cool  water,  very  good  butter  may  be  made 
during  the  hottest  weather. 

DIRECTIONS   FOR   MAKING   BUTTER. 

Some  people  churn  sweet  milk,  others  let  the  milk 
sour,  and  tlien  churn,  adding  a  great  deal  of  water. 


AND   housekeeper's   AID.  211 

But  I  think  rich  cream,  makes  the  best  flavored  butter, 
and  certainly  of  the  best  color,  and  will  keep  longer 
than  butter  churned  from  milk.  The  milk  should  be 
skimmed  in  warm  weather  as  soon  as  it  is  sour.  Morning 
and  evening  is  the  best  time  for  skimming.  Put  the 
cream  in  an  earthen  jar,  and  if  you  do  not  churn  every 
day,  keep  a  stick  in  it  to  stir  occasionally.  The  oftener 
you  churn,  the  better  quality  your  butter  will  be.  If  you 
have  ice,  put  some  into  a  tub,  well  covered  with  flannel, 
to  prevent  its  melting ;  this  will  keep  your  cellar  cool 
during  the  warmest  weather ;  when  you  churn,  put  a 
lump  of  ice  in  the  churn. 

In  cold  weather  the  milk  should  be  set  over  the  fire 
and  warmed,  when  it  comes  from  the  cow  ;  in  twenty- 
four  hours  take  off  the  cream ;  it  will  not  be  as  thick 
for  scalding,  but  will  be  richer,  and  will  make  more 
butter,  and  of  a  better  color  and  quality.  The  butter 
will  come  in  fifteen  minutes  if  the  cream  is  scalded.  In 
warm  weather,  or  when  the  milk  has  not  been  scalded, 
an  hour  is  the  usual  time  for  churning.  If  the  milk  is 
the  right  temperature,  the  butter  will  be  hard  and  yel- 
low. The  butter  should  be  rinsed  off  the  cover  and 
dasher  about  five  minutes  before  it  gathers  together ; 
then  churn  slowly  imtil  it  becomes  solid.  Take  up  with 
a  wooden  ladle,  and  wash  all  the  buttermilk  out,  (or  if 
you  can  work  out  the  buttermilk  without  w^ashing,  the 
butter  w^ill  be  sweeter  ;)  then  salt,  allowing  one  ounce 
of  salt  to  a  pound  of  butter ;  but  as  some  people  like 
their  batter  Salter  than  others,  this  should  be  done 
from  experience.  Use  no  salt  but  rock-salt  ground. 
It  comes  in  sacks  expressly  for  dairies.  Work  the  salt 
in  well,  and  let  it  remain  a  few  hours,  when  it  should 
again  be  worked,  and  packed  ;  if  worked  too  much,  it 
will  injure  the  taste  of  the  butter.  If  put  in  firkins  or 
pails,  tliey  should  be  soaked  over  night  in  cold  water, 
(after  being  thoroughly  cleaned ;)  wash  well ;  then  take 
a  cloth  wet  with  strong  brine  and  wash  again  ;  put  in 
your  butter  and  pack  solid.  AVet  a  linen  cloth  in  a  so- 
lution of  saltpetre,  and  lay  on  top  ;  cover  tight  until 
another  churning  is  put  in  ;  then  repeat  the  process. 
The  sooner  the  firkin  is  filled  the  better.    If  kept  in  fir- 


212  EXCELSIOR   COOK   BOOK 

kins  any  length  of  time,  put  a  layer  of  salt  on  the  cloth  ; 
then  fit  the  cover  in  tight  to  exclude  the  air ;  or  a  brine 
may  be  made  in  the  folio Aving  manner :  one  quart  of 
fine  salt,  half  a  pail  of  water,  an  ounce  of  saltpetre,  and 
two  ounces  of  white  sugar ;  boil  it  and  skim  well ;  Avhen 
cold,  pour  on ;  this  will  keep  it  sweet  a  long  time. 

Always  churn  in  the  morning  while  the  atmosphere 
is  coolest ;  in  winter,  warm  the  cream.  A  little  salt 
stirred  into  the  cream  while  getting  a  churning,  will 
keep  it  sweet,  and  some  think  the  butter  comes  sooner. 

TO   PBEPARE   A   RENNET. 

Take  the  rennet  from  a  healthy  calf  not  over  four 
weeks  old ;  it  should  be  kept  without  food  for  twelve 
hours,  for  the  secretions  of  the  stomach  to  accumulate 
strength.  Empty  the  curd  out,  but  not  rinse,  then  rub 
with  salt,  and  stretch  on  a  hoop  to  dry.  It  is  better  to 
be  a  year  old  before  using.  When  used,  soak  in  a  jar 
a  gallon  of  water  to  a  rennet ;  rub  salt  on,  and  stir  often ; 
keep  more  salt  on  than  will  dissolve.  In  three  or  four 
days  the  liquid  is  fit  for  use,  and  can  be  bottled  and 
kept  in  a  cool  place.  If  there  is  any  taint,  do  not  use 
it,  as  it  wiU.  spoil  the  cheese.  Allow  one  gill  to  thirty- 
five  gallons  of  milk.     Stir  always  before  using. 

MAKING   CHEESE. 

Have  every  thing  connected  with  the  making  of 
cheese  well  cleaned  and  scalded.  You  will  require  two 
strainers,  one  hoop,  a  basket,  ladder,  tub,  and  press. 
Strain  your  night's  milk  in  your  tub  ;  in  the  morning 
when  the  cows  are  milked,  warm  it  in  a  brass  kettle  or 
tin  boiler,  and  turn  in  with  the  night's  milk ;  after  stir- 
ring it  well,  put  in  rennet  sufficient  to  form  the  curd 
well  in  half  an  hour.  The  milk  should  be  heated  to 
ninety-eight  degrees  or  one  hundred  of  Fahrenheit. 
When  the  curd  is  nicely  formed,  take  a  long-bladed 
knife  and  cut  it  through  in  squares,  or  you  may  break 
it  gently  with  the  hands.  Great  care  must  be  used,  or 
the  whey  will  run  off"  milky,  and  the  cheese  will  be  in- 
jured. The  whey  should  look  green  when  it  runs  off*. 
Put  your  ladder  on  another  tub  to  catch  the  whey ;  lay 


AND    housekeeper's   AID.  213 

on  your  basket,  put  the  strainer  on,  and  then  dip  out 
the  curd  carefully  into  the  basket,  occasionally  lifting 
the  ends  to  hasten  the  draining.  When  all  is  in,  turn 
up  the  corners,  and  set  a  wei.ght  on  to  press  out  the 
^"hey.  Every  few  minutes  the  curds  should  be  cut  up 
and  pressed  again,  but  must  not  be  hurried  too  much. 
When  thoroughly  drained,  if  to  be  pressed  the  same 
day,  it  must  be  prepared  for  scalding ;  but  if  not  to  be 
pressed  until  another  curd  is  made,  it  must  be  put  into 
the  cellar  or  some  cool  place,  and  hung  up  to  drain. 

TO    SCALD    THE    CURD. 

Cut  the  curd  into  little  squares  the  fourth  of  an  inch 
in  size ;  put  them  into  a  strainer,  and  immerse  it  in  a 
vessel  of  Avarm  water,  enough  to  cover  it.  Then  heat 
it  to  the  temperature  of  one  hundred  and  five  degrees. 
Stir  it  all  the  time  until  warmed  through  ;  then  gradu- 
ally add  cold  water  until  reduced  to  ninety  degrees. 
Put  it  in  your  basket  and  drain  it ;  then  salt,  allowing  a 
quarter  of  a  pound  of  salt  for  every  ten  pounds  of  curd, 
and  mix  carefully.  Place  it  in  a  hoop,  strainer  and  all ; 
make  it  smooth,  and  put  a  cover  on  top,  and  put  in  the 
press.  It  must  not  be  pressed  very  hard  at  first,  but 
more  weights  put  on  afterwards.  In  two  hours  or  three 
it  will  be  ready  to  turn ;  then  take  another  cheese-cloth 
wet  it  in  a  little  salt  and  Avater,  and  turn  into  that,  and 
put  back  into  the  press.  In  nine  or  ten  hours  turn 
again,  and  if  the  edges  require  paring,  do  it  with  a 
sharp  knife.  Let  it  remain  two  days  in  the  press  if  you 
can.  It  is  well  to  have  two  presses  for  this  purpose, 
where  a  cheese  is  made  every  day.  When  taken  from 
the  press,  rub  it  over  with  butter  and  keep  in  a  dry,  cool 
place.  If  they  spread  too  much,  sew  a  bit  of  cotton 
cloth  around  them  when  taken  from  the  press.  It  is  a 
good  plan  to  put  cayenne  pepper  in  the  butter  you  rub 
on,  to  prevent  the  flies  from  troubling  them.  They  must 
be  greased  aad  turned  every  day,  until  fully  cured.  If 
you  wish  to  color  the  cheese,  boil  annotto  with  a  little 
lye,  and  put  to  the  milk  Avhen  you  add  the  rennet.  If 
too  much  rennet  is  put  in,  the  cheese  will  be  strong, 
and  if  too  much  salt,  they  will  be  hard.  If  the  milk  is 
too  hot,  they  will  be  tough. 


214  EXCELSIOR   COOK  BOOK 

Sage  cheese  is  made  by  pounding  the  sage,  and  then 
squeezing  out  the  juice  and  straining  in  with  the  rennet. 
Spinach  or  corn  leaves  are  also  nice  to  add  with  sage. 

COTTAGE    OK   DUTCH    CHEESE. 

Take  half  buttermilk  and  half  sour  milk  after  it  has 
been  skimmed,  and  heat  over  the  fire  until  the  curd 
settles  at  the  bottom  ;  then  put  in  a  cloth,  sewed  up  at 
the  corner  like  a  jelly-bag,  and  let  it  drain.  When 
drained,  add  salt,  cream,  or  butter,  and  make  in  balls. 
This  is  best  made  fresh.  It  is  nice  eaten  with  cream 
and  pej^per. 

BRANDT   CHEESE. 

Grate  cheese,  or  the  dry  bits  may  be  used  for  this  pur- 
pose, and  pack  in  brandy.  Put  a  layer  of  cheese  in  a 
jar,  pour  on  some  brandy  and  pound  down  tight ;  cover 
well,  and  when  eaten  cut  off  in  slices  ;  this  will  keep  a 
long  time. 

AITOTHER  METHOD    OF   MAKING   CHEESE. 

After  pressing  out  all  the  whey  and  scalding  as  for 
the  press,  pack  in  jars  and  press  down  closely ;  then 
put  a  linen  cloth  on  top,  of  several  folds  thickness,  and 
when  saturated,  remove  it  and  place  a  dry  one  in  its 
place.  The  next  day  add  the  other  curd,  and  continue 
so  until  full.  Another  way  is  to  hang  it  up  after  salt- 
ing, in  a  strainer,  and  let  it  remain  until  it  ripens.  I 
have  never  tried  either  of  these  modes,  and  can  not 
vouch  for  their  goodness. 

TO  PRESERVE  CHEESE  FROM  THE  FLY. 

It  is  the  small  cheese-fly  that  is  so  troublesome  to 
cheesemakers.  They  lay  the  egg^  and  it  soon  begins 
to  work  its  way  into  the  cheese.  I  have  sometimes  put 
annotto  into  the  butter  before  rubbing  the  cheese  ;  also 
red  peppers  steeped  strong  and  put  in  is  a  preven  tive ; 
but  the  most  successful  way  of  keeping  the  insect  from 
troubling  the  cheese  is  to  rub  it  over  with  a  flour  paste, 
and  then  wrap  a  cloth  round  it,  and  one  on  the  top  and 
bottom.  Cover  over  with  paste,  and  keep  in  a  dark, 
cool  place. 


AND    housekeeper's    AID.  216 

TO    KAISE    CREAM. 

When  the  milk  conies  in,  have  your  pans  in  boiling 
water  ;  strain  into  one  and  turn  the  other  over ;  this 
will  hasten  the  rising  of  the  cream,  and  it  will  be  of  a 
better  quality. 

CHEESE    CREAM. 

"Warm  a  pint  of  milk  and  a  pint  of  cream,  and  put  a 
little  rennet  to  it ;  keep  in  a  warm  place  till  curdled ; 
have  a  proper  mould  with  holes,  either  of  china  or  any 
other.  Put  the  curds  in  to  drain  about  an  hour  or  less , 
serve  with  a  good  plain  cream  and  sugar  over  it. 

WELSH   RABBIT.     NO.   1. 

Cut  a  slice  of  bread  and  toast  it ;  then  soak  it  in  red 
wine ;  cut  slices  of  cheese,  and  rub  a  little  butter  on 
the  bottom  of  a  dish  ;  lay  the  cheese  upon  it,  and  pour 
in  two  or  three  spoonfuls  of  white  wine  and  a  little 
mustard ;  then  put  the  toast  on  top,  and  set  in  the  oven 
till  warmed  through. 

•WELSH   RABBIT.     WO.    2. 

Lay  slices  of  bread  and  butter  in  a  dish,  and  a  layer 
of  cheese  alternately,  till  full ;  then  make  a  custard 
without  sugar,  and  bake  fifteen  minutes. 

CONFECTIONEIIY. 

TO    CANDY   FRUIT. 

It  must  be  preserved  and  dried  in  a  stove,  that  none 
of  the  syrup  may  remain.  Sugar  for  candying  must  be 
prepared  in  the  following  manner.  Take  a  pound  of 
sugar,  with  half  a  pint  of  water,  and  set  it  over  a  fire. 
Take  off  the  scum  as  it  rises,  and  boil  until  it  looks 
clear ;  take  some  out,  and  when  it  is  cold,  if  it  will 
draw  a  thread  from  the  spoon,  it  is  boiled  enough  for 
any  kind  of  sweetmeat ;  then  boil  your  syrup,  and  if  it 
begins  to  candy  around  the  edges  of  your  pan,  it  is 
boiled  enough,  or  is  candy  height.  Sweetmeats  must 
not  be  put  into  too  rich  syrup  or  the  fruit  will  wither, 
and  both  the  beauty  and  flavor  will  be  destroyed. 


216  EXCELSIOR   COOK   BOOK 

TO   CANDY  ALL   KINDS    OF   FRUIT. 

"VYhen  completed  in  the  syrup  put  a  layer  into  a  new 
sauce,  and  dip  it  suddenly  into  hot  water  to  take  off 
the  syrup  that  hangs  about  it ;  then  j^ut  it  on  a  napkin 
before  the  fire  to  drain,  and  then  do  more  on  the  sieve. 
Take  some  refined  sugar  and  sift  over  the  fruit  till 
quite  white  ;  set  it  on  the  shallow  end  of  the  sieve  in 
a  warm  oven,  and  turn  it  two  or  three  times.  It  must 
not  be  cold  till  dry.  Watch  it  carefully,  and  it  will  be 
beautiful. 

CARAMEL,   TO   ORNAMENT   PASTRY. 

Take  syrup  after  it  has  candied  high,  and  with  a 
spoon  drop  into  any  kind  of  mould  in  fine  threads  till 
it  is  covered.  The  mould  should  be  greased  first,  so 
that  it  will  readily  come  ofiT.  Make  a  small  handle  of 
caramel  or  two  or  three  small  gum-paste  rings,  and 
place  it  over  pastry  of  any  description. 

TO    CANDY   CITRON. 

Pare  them  very  thin  and  narrow,  and  throw  them 
into  water.  Take  out  the  inner  part  with  great  care, 
so  as  to  leave  only  the  white  part.  When  tender,  take 
them  out  and  have  a  clarified  syrup  boiled  to  almost  a 
candy  height ;  then  put  in  the  rings  and  boil ;  take 
from  the  fire,  and  when  the  sugar  becomes  white  by 
rubbing  it  with  a  spoon  against  the  side  of  the  pan,  it 
is  time  to  take  out  the  rings  and  lay  them  on  a  sieve 
to  drain ;  then  cut  into  proper  lengths  and  dry. 

CREAM   SNOW. 

Take  a  quart  of  cream,  the  whites  of  three  eggs,  four 
spoonfuls  of  sweet  wine ;  sugar  to  the  taste ;  add  a  bit 
of  lemon-peel ;  whip  to  a  froth.  Serve  in  a  dish  after 
taking  out  the  peel. 

SUGAR   KISSES.     NO.   2. 

Stir  the  whites  of  four  eggs  to  a  stiflT  froth  ;  add  half 
a  pound  of  white  sugar,  and  flavor  as  you  like.  Lay 
in  heaps  on  white  paper,  each  the  size  and  shape  of 
half  an  egg^  and  an  inch  apart ;  place  them  on  a  board 
and  bake  in  a  moderate  oven.    When  they  turn  a  little 


AND   housekeeper's   AID.  217 

yellow,  slip  them  off  the  paper  and  let  them  cool  five 
minutes ;  then  take  two  of  the  kisses  and  join  the  two 
bottoms  together  ;  press  gently  and  they  will  adhere ; 
they  look  very  handsome.  Put  currant  jelly  or  any 
other  kind  you  like  between  them. 

LEMON   DKOPS. 

Stir  loaf-sugar  into  lemon-juice  as  thick  as  you  can 
stir  it ;  put  into  a  basin  or  porcelain  kettle,  and  stir 
with  a  wooden  stick  over  a  moderate  fire  five  minutes ; 
flavor  with  the  extract  of  lemon,  and  then  drop  with 
the  point  of  a  knife  on  to  white  paper.  When  cold, 
take  off. 

SUGAR   CANDY. 

Allow  half  a  pint  of  water  to  one  pound  of  sugar, 
half  a  sheet  of  isinglass,  a  tea-spoonful  of  gum-arabic ; 
dissolve  the  whole  in  a  brass  kettle  or  preserving-kettle ; 
when  it  boils,  remove  from  the  fire  and  skim  well ;  then 
put  it  on  again  and  boil  till  it  becomes  brittle,  which  is 
ascertained  by  dropping  a  little  in  cold  water.  If  made 
of  white  sugar,  add  a  little  vinegar,  or  it  will  be  too 
brittle.  Flavor  with  any  essence  you  prefer  ;  color  it 
if  you  like.  If  nuts  or  cocoa-nut  meats  are  added,  put 
in  before  pouring  out.    Make  in  any  shape  you  like. 

CBEAM  OF  ANY  PRESERVED  TRUIT. 

Take  half  a  pound  of  any  preserved  fruit ;  put  in  a 
pan,  with  the  whites  of  two  or  three  eggs ;  beat  to- 
gether half  an  hour  ;  take  off  with  a  spoon,  and  lay  on 
a  glass  dish,  with  other  creams,  or  put  in  the  middle 
of  a  basin.     Raspberries  will  not  do. 

ESSENCE    OP    CINNAMON. 

Infuse  the  oil  in  highly  rectified  spirits  of  wine  in 
proportion  of  half  a  drachm  of  oil  to  an  ounce  of  wine. 
Cloves,  the  oil,  is  made  the  same ;  the  quantities  are 
one  ounce  of  cloves  to  three  quarts  of  brandy,  and  four 
pounds  of  sugar  dissolved  in  four  pints  of  water. 

LEMONS   TO   KEEP    FOR  PUDDINGS. 
Put  the  rinds  in  cold  water  and  let  them  remain  two 
weeks  ;  then  boil  in  the  same  till  tender ;  strain  it,  and 
10 


218  EXCELSIOR   COOK   BOOK 

when  nearly  dry,  throw  them  into  a  jar  of  candy  that 
you  have  remaining  from  old  sweetmeats,  or  if  you 
have  none,  make  a  syrup  of  loaf-sugar  and  water,  and 
pour  over  them.  In  a  week  boil  them  till  they  look 
clear.     They  must  be  covered. 

PREPARATION    OF    FOOD    FOR    THE 

SICK. 

-WATEK    GBUEL. 

Stir  three  large  spoonfuls  of  Indian  meal,  or  oatmeal 
if  preferred,  smooth  with  a  little  water ;  pour  into  a 
a  quart  of  boiling  water,  and  let  it  boil  fifteen  or  twenty 
minutes ;  season  with  a  little  salt,  and  if  desired,  a  little 
sugar  and  nutmeg  will  render  it  more  palatable ;  also 
a  little  milk  or  cream  is  nice  if  the  patient  can  take  it. 

MILK   PORKIDGE. 

This  is  made  in  the  same  way,  only  use  flour  instead 
of  Indian  meal,  and  milk  in  the  place  of  water. 

EICE    GEUEL. 

Boil  a  little  rice  in  water  until  tender  ;  then  strain 
off  the  liquor  and  sweeten  to  the  taste ;  add  a  little 
salt  and  nutmeg. 

BAKLET   WATEK. 

"Wash  the  barley  and  pour  on  cold  water ;  let  it  sini- 
mer ;  then  add  a  few  raisins,  and  boil  until  tender  ; 
season  with  salt  and  nutmeg.  Rice  may  be  made  in 
the  same  way. 

PANADA. 

Pour  water  on  light  bread  or  crackers,  and  season 
with  sugar  and  nutmeg ;  add  an  egg,  if  allowed  ;  a  few 
raisins  added  with  the  crackers  are  nice.  Hot  water 
must  be  poured  on  and  covered  up  tight  imtil  they 
soak. 

"WINE    OR    CIDER   PANADA. 

Pour  boiling  water  on  crackers,  or  bread  toasted  or 
not  just  as  preferred  ;  then  add  a  wine-glassful  of  cider 
or  wine  ;  flavor  with  nutmeg.  Invalids  almost  always 
relish  this  when  they  can  take  nothing  else.  A  little 
butter  should  be  added. 


AND   housekeeper's    AID.  219 

CAUDLE. 

Take  water  gruel,  rice,  or  barley ;  add  a  wine-glass- 
ful of  wine  or  ale,  and  season  with  nutmeg  or  sugar. 

BREAD  JELLY. 

Toast  slices  of  stale  bread ;  pour  boiling  water  on 
and  a  little  lemon-juice,  and  then  boil  to  a  jelly;  strain 
and  sweeten  it ;  add  a  little  nutmeg  or  lemon-peel  to 
flavor.     This  is  nice  for  young  children. 

CHICKEN   JELLY. 

Cut  a  chicken,  or  an  old  fowl  will  answer  just  as 
well ;  pound  the  bones  and  then  put  in  a  jar  and  cover 
it  tight.  Set  the  jar  in  a  kettle  of  boiling  water,  and 
keep  it  boiling  three  hours  ;  then  strain  off  the  liquor 
and  add  salt,  pepper,  loaf-sugar,  and  lemon.  The  fowl 
may  be  boiled  again  and  will  make  as  much  jelly  as 
before. 

TAPIOCA   JELLY. 

Soak  four  table-spoonfuls  of  tapioca,  in  water  to 
cover  it,  five  hours  ;  stir  it  into  a  pint  of  boiling  water, 
and  let  it  simmer  gently ;  when  thick  and  clear,  mix 
two  table-spoonfuls  of  lemon-juice,  half  a  wine-glass  of 
wune,  and  stir  into  the  jelly  ;  then  turn  into  cups.  Sago 
jelly  may  be  made  in  the  same  way. 

SASSAERAS    JELLY. 

Take  the  pit  of  the  sassafras  boughs,  and  soak  in  cold 
water  until  it  becomes  glutinous.  It  is  much  relished 
by  the  sick,  and  is  also  nourishing. 

CALVES'    FEET   BROTH. 

Put  water  enough  on  to  cover  them,  and  boil  down 
to  half ;  strain  the  liquor,  and  take  off  the  fat,  season 
with  salt  and  a  little  wine.  This  is  very  nourishing 
and  strengthening  for  an  invalid. 

CALVES'   FEET   BLANC    MANGE. 

Split  the  feet  and  wash  clean ;  pour  on  four  quarts 
of  cold  water,  and  boil  down  to  one  ;  strain  it  and  set 
away  to  cool  ;  then  remove  the  fat  and  take  off  the  set- 
tlings at  the  bottom,  and  add  a  quart  of  new  milk ; 


220  EXCELSIOE    COOK   BOOK 

sweeten  to  the  taste,  and  boil  a  few  minutes  with  lemon- 
peel  or  a  stick  of  cinnamon  ;  then  strain  it  through  a 
sieve  into  a  pitcher,  and  stir  until  cold ;  when  milk- 
warm,  wet  the  moulds  with  cold  water,  and  pour  in. 
This  is  nice  for  sick  or  well. 

BEEF   TEA, 

Take  a  pound  of  fresh  beef,  cut  it  thin,  and  put  it  in 
a  wide-mouthed  bottle,  with  a  little  salt ;  place  it  in  a 
kettle  of  cold  water,  and  boil  an  hour ;  then  strain  it, 
and  there  will  be  a  gill  of  liquid.  Begin  with  a  little 
at  first,  and  give  as  the  stomach  will  bear.  I  have 
sometimes  added  a  little  water  when  put  over  to  boil. 
This  has  been  retained  on  the  stomach  when  nothing 
else  would. 

ANOTHER    BEEF    TEA. 

Slice  dried  beef  very  thin,  pour  on  boiling  water,  and 
cover  it  tight ;  set  it  in  a  warm  place,  for  half  an  hour 
or  so,  then  add  a  little  piece  of  butter  and  pepper ; 
crumb  in  a  little  bread,  or  crackers,  if  wished. 

"WHINE   "WHEY. 

Boil  half  a  pint  of  milk,  and  the  moment  it  boils, 
pour  in  a  glass  of  wine,  with  a  little  lump-sugar ;"  the 
curd  will  soon  form,  then  take  it  off  and  set  it  aside 
until  it  settles  ;  pour  the  whey  off  and  add  a  little  hot 
water  ;  sweeten  to  the  taste. 

AKROW-ROOT. 

Stir  a  table-spoonful  smooth  with  a  little  cold  water, 

then  pour  on  boiling  water  until  it  thickens  and  looks 

clear  ;  season  with  sugar,  salt,  lemon  or  nutmeg,  or  eat 

with  cream  and  sugar.     This  is  nice  for  children  when 

teething. 

SAGO. 

Take  a  tea-cupful  of  sago  and  let  it  soak  three  hours, 
then  boil  it  with  some  lemon-peel  until  it  is  transparent ; 
add  a  little  milk,  lump-sugar,  and  nutmeg. 

CUSTARD    EGG. 

Beat  an  egg  to  a  froth,  and  add  a  pint  of  new  milk 
just  from  the  cow  ;  add  a  little  sugar  and  nutmeg,  or  if 


AND   housekeeper's   AID.  221 

wine  is  allowed,  add  a  Avine-glass  of  wine  instead  of  the 
milk,  and  take  half  an  hour  before  breakfast.  This  is 
very  nourishing  and  strengthening  for  an  invalid. 

HOT    LEMONADE. 

Cut  up  a  lemon  and  pour  on  boiling  water ;  add  a 
tea-cupful  of  lump-sugar.  This  is  an  excellent  drink 
for  colds. 

BEEF,  VEAL,  OR  CHICKEN  BKOTH. 

Boil  the  meat  with  a  little  rice,  until  tender  ;  season 
with  a  little  salt,  and  put  in  an  earthen  vessel,  and 
when  wanted,  warm  a  little  at  a  time,  and  crumb  in 
crackers. 

CODFISH   BKOTH. 

Cut  salt  codfish  in  small  pieces,  and  put  on  cold 
water  ;  let  it  boil  a  minute  or  two,  then  pour  on  more 
water,  and  add  a  little  butter,  or,  if  preferred,  add 
cream  instead  of  water ;  toast  crackers  or  bread  and 
pour  on  to  it. 

EGG  FOB   INVALIDS. 

Break  an  egg  in  a  saucer ;  add  a  small  piece  of  but* 
ter,  with  a  little  salt ;  then  set  it  on  the  stove,  and  stir 
until  cooked  sufiiciently.  Another  way  is  to  break  the 
egg  into  boiling  water,  having  previously  salted  the 
water ;  take  it  up  as  soon  as  the  white  is  hard ;  dip  a 
slice  of  toast  in  hot  water  and  lay  the  egg  on  top,  after 
buttering  the  toast. 

FLOUR   GRUEL. 

Tie  a  pint  of  flour  in  a  cotton  cloth,  and  boil  in  water 
three  hours ;  then  take  out  of  the  cloth,  and  grate  it 
when  used,  and  pour  on  boiling  water;  add  a  little 
milk,  and  flavor  with  sugar  and  salt.  This  is  good  for 
invalids  or  teething  children. 

CREAM    OF    TARTAR   "WHET. 

Heat  a  pint  of  milk  scalding  hot,  stir  fn  a  tea-spoon- 
ful of  cream  of  tartar ;  strain  it,  and  sweeten  with 
lump-sugar. 


222  EXCELSIOR   COOK   BOOK 

SIMPLE    DRINKS   FOR   THE    SICK. 

Pour  boiling  water  on  to  dried  tart  apples,  tama- 
rinds, cranberries,  currants,  whortleberries,  and  then 
pour  off  the  water  and  sweeten  it  to  the  taste  ;  add  a 
little  wine,  if  allowed.  These  drinks  are  nice  and  cool- 
ing in  fevers. 

FLOUR   COFFEE. 

Take  wheat  flour  and  scorch  very  evenly  in  a  spider, 
stirring  all  the  time,  then  put  some  in  a  bowl  and  pour 
on  hot  water,  and  let  it  stand  a  few  minutes,  keej)ing  it 
warm,  and  then  pour  off  the  coffee  and  sweeten,  adding 
a  little  cream.  Cocoa  is  very  palatable  and  nutritious 
for  the  sick,  and  the  directions  are  always  given  on  the 
papers.  Java  coffee  is  sometimes  used  for  those  who 
can  bear  it,  made  with  milk  instead  of  water,  and 
sweetened  to  the  taste. 

TOMATO   SYKUP. 

Take  the  juice  of  ripe  tomatoes,  and  put  a  pound  of 
sugar  to  each  quart  of  juice  ;  put  it  in  bottles,  and  set 
it  aside  ;  in  a  few  weeks  it  will  have  the  flavor  of  pure 
wine,  and,  mixed  with  water,  is  a  nice  beverage  for  the 
sick. 

BUTTERMILK   "WHEY. 

Boil  fresh  buttermilk,  and  as  soon  as  boiled  pour  into 
a  bowl ;  add  a  little  salt,  lump-sugar  to  the  taste,  and 
a  little  nutmeg  if  liked ;  sometimes  a  cracker  rolled 
fine  is  acceptable. 

ANOTHER    METHOD. 

When  the  buttermilk  is  boiling,  stir  in  an  egg  well 
beaten,  and  take  up ;  add  a  little  cream  or  butter, 
sugar,  and  spice. 

ALUM   WHEY. 
Mix   a   little    pounded    alum   with   milk,    strain   it 
through  a  cloth ;  add  nutmeg  and  sugar  to  the  whey. 
It  is  good  for  colic  and  hemorrhages. 

TO   MAKE   ALUM  WHEY  FOR  POULTICES. 

Take  a  pint  of  milk  and  Avarm  it,  stir  in  a  lump  of 
alum  till  it  Avheys,  then  take  out  the  curd,  and  use  for 
poultices. 


AND   HOUSEKEEPER'S   AID.  223 

EGG   TEA. 

Beat  the  yolk  of  an  egg  with  a  spoonful  of  sugar > 
pour  boilmg  water  on,  and  then  stir  in  the  white,  beat 
en  to  a  froth ;  add  spice  to  suit  the  taste.  When  a 
person  has  taken  a  violent  cold,  get  them  Avarm  in  bed 
and  give  th's  as  hot  as  it  can  be  taken,  and  it  will  often 
effect  a  cure. 

EGG   COFFEE. 

Beat  the  yolk  of  an  egg  with  a  large  spoonful  of 
sugar,  then  put  in  a  cup  of  cold  coffee ;  add  a  tea-cup 
of  cold  water  and  as  much  cream,  then  add  the  white 
of  the  egg,  beaten  to  a  stiff  froth.  This  is  much  rel- 
ished by  invalids. 

COUGH   TEA. 

Make  a  strong  tea  of  everlasting,  strain  it,  and  to 
every  quart  add  two  ounces  of  liquorice-root,  two  of 
raisins,  and  boil  half  an  hour  ;  when  taken  up,  add  the 
juice  of  a  lemon.  This  is  an  excellent  remedy  for  a 
tight  cough.  If  taken  hot,  care  should  be  taken  not  to 
expose  yourself  after  drinking  it  for  a  few  hours. 

THOKOUGHWORT   BITTEES. 

Take  the  blossoms  off,  as  they  are  apt  to  cause  vomit" 
ing,  then  make  a  strong  tea  of  the  stalks,  then  strain 
it,  and  when  cool,  add  half  a  pint  of  French  brandy, 
the  peel  of  two  oranges  cut  into  bits,  and  fennel  seed ; 
put  all  into  a  bottle  and  cork  it  tight.  Take  a  wine- 
glass of  the  bitters  and  put  into  half  a  tumbler  of  water ; 
sweeten  it  if  you  like.  It  is  an  excellent  remedy  for 
fever  and  ague  and  bilious  colic. 

FLAX-SEED    JELLT. 

Pour  boiling  water  on  to  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of 
flax-seed,  cover  up  tight,  and  let  it  remain  two  or  three 
hours ;  then  strain,  and  add  the  juice  of  a  lemon  and 
white  sugar  to  the  taste ;  or  it  may  be  boiled  in  mo- 
lasses candy  and  taken  in  that  way.  It  is  good  for  a 
cough  or  costiveness. 

MOSS    JELLY. 

Steep  Irish  moss  in  cold  water  a  few  minutes,  then 
drain  off  the  water,  and  to  half  an  ounce  of  moss  put  a 


224  EXCELSIOR  COOK  BOOK 

quart  of  fresh  water  and  a  stick  of  cinnamon ;  boil  it 
to  a  thick  jelly,  strain  it,  and  add  sugar  and  a  glass  of 
wine  if  it  can  be  taken.  It  will  not  keep  long  if  no 
wine  is  put  in. 

FOB  HOARSENESS  OB  LOADED  CHEST. 

Take  eight  or  ten  drops  of  the  balsam  of  copaiba  and 
drop  on  a  piece  of  loaf-sugar  ;  take  three  times  a  day, 
morning,  noon,  and  night.  Try  a  few  days,  and  if  it 
does  good,  it  will  effect  a  cure  in  a  week.  Horse-radish, 
made  into  a  tea  and  sweetened  with  honey  or  loaf- 
sugar  is  good  ;  add  a  little  vinegar.  Take  a  tea-spoon- 
ful occasionally. 

A   TONIC   FOB  INDIGESTION. 

Take  twenty  grains  of  rhubarb,  gentian,  carbonate 
of  iron,  and  Spanish  liquorice,  pour  a  pint  of  boiling 
water  on,  and  take  from  two  to  three  table-spoonfuls 
three  times  a  day.  A  little  sugar  can  be  added  to  make 
it  more  palatable  if  you  like.     Take  the  mixture  cold. 

CUBE   FOB   A  DBY   COUGH. 

Take  half  an  ounce  of  gum-arabic,  the  same  of  liquor- 
ice, dissolve  in  warm  water,  squeeze  the  juice  of  a 
lemon ;  then  add  two  drachms  of  paregoric,  one  of 
squills.  Put  in  a  bottle  and  shake  Avell.  Take  a  tea- 
spoonful  when  the  cough  is  troublesome. 

CUBE    FOB   EABACHE. 

A  little  sweet  oil  and  laudanum  dropped  warm  into 
the  ear,  and  applying  hot  salt  in  a  bag  to  keep  it  warm. 
The  heart  of  an  onion  roasted  is  good. 

STING  OP   A  BEE. 

Apply  an  onion  cut  in  two,  and  let  it  remain  until  the 
pain  subsides,  and  it  is  a  certain  remedy.  Another  is 
to  apply  saleratus.  Wet  salt  is  also  good.  Whatever 
is  applied  should  be  done  before  the  part  begins  to 
swell. 

TO   MAKE   OPODELDOC. 

Dissolve  an  ounce  of  camphor  in  a  pint  of  rectified 
spirits  of  wine,  then  dissolve  four  ounces  of  white 


AND   HOUSEKEEPER  S   AID.  225 

Spanish  soap,  scraped  tliin,  in  four  ounces  of  rosemary, 
and  mix  together.  Add  half  an  ounce  of  origanum  if 
you  like. 

TO    CURE    CRAMP. 

A  cold  application  to  the  bottom  of  the  feet,  such 
as  iron,  ice,  water,  or  any  thing  cold  that  can  be  had, 
the  colder  the  better.  If  the  cramp  is  in  the  arms  or 
upper  part  of  the  body,  apply  it  under  the  arms,  and 
it  will  relieve  in  five  minutes. 

TO   DRY   HERBS. 

Gather  them  on  a  dry  day,  while  in  blossom,  and  be- 
fore dog-days,  as  they  are  much  stronger.  When  dry, 
hang  uj)  in  paper  bags. 

A  REMEDY  FOR  SCARLET  FEVER. 

Give  two  table-spoonfuls  of  yeast  to  an  adult,  and  to 
a  child  two  or  three  years  old  one  spoonful,  to  be  taken 
every  two  hours.  For  sore  throat  gargling  yeast  will 
give  immediate  relief. 

IMPORTANT  REMEDY  FOR  CANCERS. 

Take  an  egg  and  break  the  small  end  to  let  out  the 
white,  then  put  in  salt  and  mix  with  the  yolk  until  a 
a  salve  is  formed.  Put  a  portion  of  this  on  a  piece  of 
leather  or  brown  paper,  and  apply  twice  a  day.  This 
has  been  known  to  effect  a  perfect  cure. 

CURE   FOR  BRONCHITIS. 

One  drop  of  croton  oil  rubbed  on  the  throat  daily 
will  produce  an  eruption  of  the  skin,  and  will,  if  per- 
severed in,  effect  a  cure.     Smoking  is  also  good. 

FOR  A   CUT. 

Tie  up  with  brown  sugar  and  pour  on  spirits,  then 
let  it  remain  several  days,  wetting  occasionally  in  spir- 
its. When  dressed  apply  the  leaf  of  the  fish  geranium, 
and  it  will  soon  heal,  or  the  leaf  may  be  immediately 
applied  as  soon  as  cut.  When  a  nail  or  piece  of  glass 
ha^been  run  into  the  foot,  bind  on  salt  pork,  and  if 
much  swelled,  bathe  with  a  decoction  of  wcrmwood, 
then  bind  on  more  pork,  and  keep  as  quiet  as  possible. 

10* 


220  EXCELSIOR  COOK   BOOK 

Salt  pork  is  also  good  for  a  bad  cut.  A  poultice  made 
of  hot  lye  is  also  good,  and  should  be  kept  on  several 
hours,  dipping  it  in  lye  whenever  it  gets  cold.  Slight 
"vvounds  often  occasion  lock-jaw,  and  should  not  be  ne- 
glected. Spirits  of  turpentine  is  also  good.  Puff-balls 
or  spiders'  webs  are  good  to  prevent  bleeding.  Peach 
leaves,  or  even  the  twigs  well  steeped,  are  said  to  be 
good  to  apply  where  a  nail  or  glass  has  gone  into  the 
foot. 

AN   EFFECTUAL   CURE   FOR  A  FELOlSr. 

Soak  the  part  affected  in  weak  lye,  putting  it  in  cold, 
and  sitting  near  the  fire  till  it  scalds ;  then  take  the  yolk 
of  an  egg^  six  drops  of  turpentine,  a  few  beet-leaves, 
a  small  quantity  of  soap,  one  tea-spoonful  of  burnt  salt, 
and  one  of  Indian  meal.  It  never  fails  to  effect  a  cure 
if  applied  in  season.  Another  effectual  cure,  but  more 
simple,  is  to  apply  the  prickly  pear,  bind  it  on  after 
bruising  it,  and  change  till  a  cure  is  effected. 

TO    CURE   RIWG'WORM. 

Get  the  grease  from  a  church-bell,  which  forms  a  kind 
of  verdigris,  mix  with  unsalted  lard,  and  apply  a  plaster 
twice  a  day.  It  is  a  certain  cure.  Gunpowder,  applied 
wet  on  going  to  bed  at  night,  and  let  it  remain  till 
morning,  is  good. 

BURNS. 

Many  receipts  are  given  for  burns,  but  the  best  one 
is,  to  wet  cotton  batting  with  linseed  oil  or  sweet  oil ; 
if  neither  are  at  hand,  use  any  other,  or  castor  oil  is 
very  good.  The  cotton  should  not  be  removed  till  the 
skin  is  healed  or  the  new  skin  will  adhere  to  it.  More 
oil  should  be  applied,  but  not  opened  to  the  air.  If  a 
very  bad  burn,  a  physician  should  be  called  to  dress  it, 
the  second  time.  For  a  slight  burn,  spirits  of  turpen- 
tine is  good. 

CROUP. 

This  is  a  dangerous  disease ;  medical  aid  should  be 
procured  as  soon  as  possible.  It  is  well  to  kec]^  the 
ipecac  root  in  the  house,  as  that  will  not  lose  its 
strength  like  the  powdered.    This  disease  is  known  by 


AND    housekeeper's   AID.  227 

a  peculiar  whistling  sound  in  the  breathing,  and  if  ne- 
glected proves  fotal.  Steep  some  ipecac  in  warm  water 
— it  must  not  boil — then  sweeten  it,  and  give  enough 
to  sicken,  or  if  they  vomit  it  will  be  better.  Soak  the 
feet,  put  on  draughts  of  mustard,  and  get  the  child  into 
a  perspiration,  and  bathe  the  throat  with  volatile  lini- 
ment. This  if  well  done  will  give  relief.  Cold  water 
applied  to  the  throat  and  chest,  and  then  well  covered 
with  flannel  to  sweat  it,  is  good,  but  should  be  care- 
fully used.  Wet  the  cloths  in  cold  water  as  soon  as 
they  get  warm. 

SOKE    THROAT. 

A  gargle  of  salt  and  water,  or  vinegar,  is  good  for  a 
common  sore  throat.  Brandy  or  rum  and  lump-sugar 
is  also  good.  One  large  spoonful  of  Cayenne  pepper, 
a  tea-spoonful  of  salt,  and  a  pint  of  boiling  water,  or 
half  vinegar,  is  still  better;  pour  on  the  water  first,  then 
add  the  vinegar.  This  is  an  excellent  remedy  for  putrid 
sore  throat.  Let  it  settle  and  then  gargle  in  the  throat 
every  half-hour.  Bind  on  the  throat  a  piece  of  salt 
pork  cut  thin,  and  if  it  is  very  bad,  keep  it  on  two  or 
three  days.  The  skin  will  then  break  out  in  small 
blisters,  which  will  be  a  benefit.  A  mustard  poultice  is 
good  and  will  give  instant  relief  almost.  Either  of 
these  are  good  for  ulcerated  sore  throat.  White  oak 
bark  made  into  a  tea,  with  a  small  piece  of  alum  in  and 
used  as  a  gargle,  is  good. 

CANKERED    MOUTH. 

Touch  the  cankered  spots  with  saltpetre,  or  burnt 
alum  powdered  is  good.  Red  raspberry  or  blackberry 
leaves  made  into  a  tea  are  good  for  calomel  sore  mouth  ; 
sweeten  with  honey.  The  low  blackberry  should  be 
used. 

DIPHTHERIA. 

This  is  a  disease  that  is  carrying  off  thousands,  both 
young  and  old,  because  it  is  so  rapid.  The  patient 
should  be  kept  warm,  and  the  throat  bathed  with  hot 
salt  and  water,  keeping  it  Avell  covered  in  flannels,  ex- 
cept to  change  the  cloths.  Gargle  salt  and  water  in 
the  throat,  and  keep  a  small  piece  of  camphor  gum  in 


228  EXCELSIOR   COOK   BOOK 

the  mouth,  and  if  this  is  well  done,  and  no  exposure  for 
several  days,  there  is  no  danger,  but  there  must  be  no 
delay. 

TO    STOP  VOMITING. 

Make  a  strong  mint  tea,  camphor  and  water,  or 
brandy  and  water,  keeping  a  flannel  wet  in  spirits  on 
the  stomach,  or  a  mustard  poultice.  A  little  salt  and 
Avater  is  also  good.  A  small  pill  of  Cayenne  pepper 
will  sometimes  stop  vomiting.  A  cloth,  wet  in  the 
essence  of  peppermint,  laid  on  the  stomach,  is  some- 
times a  preventive.  Pigeons'  gizzards  are  good. 
They  should  be  powdered  and  made  into  a  tea,  and 
when  every  thing  else  fails,  a  chicken  boiled  four  min- 
utes, and  the  broth  given  in  small  quantities,  will  stop 
vomiting. 

MUSTAKD   POULTICE. 

Make  a  paste  of  Indian  meal  scalded,  and  sprinkle 
mustard  over  the  meal,  after  putting  on  a  cloth,  or  you 
may  make  it  of  wheat  flour  wet  Avith  vinegar,  and 
spread  on  a  cloth,  then  sprinkle  mustard  on  the  side  to 
be  applied  to  the  flesh. 

BLEEDING   AT   THE   NOSE. 

Hold  the  head  on  a  level  with  the  rest  of  the  body, 
bathe  the  head  frequently  in  cold  water,  apply  a  key 
or  something  cold  to  the  back  of  the  neck.  Grate  dried 
salt  beef,  and  snuff"  up  a  little. 

POLYPUS. 

Take  bayberry  and  bloodroot,  dry  them  and  pulver- 
ize them,  then  take  as  snuff.  Make  a  small  swab,  and 
dip  it  into  the  snuff  and  touch  the  diseased  part  as  far 
as  possible. 

"WAKTS. 

Rub  them  with  fresh  beef  every  day,  or  rub  them 
with  tobacco-juice  and  chalk.  Strong  saleratus  water 
will  soon  destroy  them.  Lemon-juice  is  good,  or  bind 
on  the  inside  of  a  lemon. 

CHILBLAINS. 

Where  the  skin  is  not  broken,  bathe  in  hot  alum- 
water.     Lime  water  and  sweet  oil  are  good,    Rub  the 


AND   HOUSEKEEPER'S   AID.  229 

chilblain  with  it  and  dry  before  the  fire,  then  wrap  in 
linen.  Repeat  this  when  going  to  bed  at  night,  several 
times.  A  cotton  or  linen  stocking  should  be  worn. 

TO   EEMOVE   PIMPLES,   STIES,   AND  BOILS. 

To  remove  a  sty,  pull  out  the  winker  where  the  sty 
commences,  or  apply  a  little  spirits  of  turpentine  every 
few  hours,  when  they  first  make  their  appearance. 

MOKTIFICATIOW. 

Apply  poultices  of  boiled  and  mashed  carrots,  or 
yeast  thickened  with  slippery  elm,  or  flour.  It  must 
be  applied  warm,  and  often  renewed ;  charcoal  pound- 
ed and  put  in  the  poultice  is  good.  Give  a  glass  of 
yeast  every  three  or  four  days,  and  tonic  bitters. 

SALT    EHEUM. 

Take  a  quart  of  vinegar  and  four  ounces  of  litharge, 
and  boil  down  to  half  a  pint;  when  settled,  pour  it  off; 
stir  in  two  ounces  of  sweet  oil,  or  more,  until  it  forms 
a  consistency  thicker  than  cream.  Give  things  for  the 
blood. 

ITCH. 

Make  an  ointment  of  lard  and  sulphur,  oint  with  it 
at  night  before  a  hot  fire,  and  in  the  morning  wash 
thoroughly,  putting  on  clean  clothes.  Continue  this  for 
a  week,  taking  a  tea-spoonful  of  sulphur  mixed  with  a 
little  molasses  each  day. 

DROPSY. 

Take  a  pint  of  hickory-bark  ashes,  mix  in  a  pint  of 
wine,  and  take  a  wine-glassful  three  times  a  day. 

SUMMMER  COMPLAINT. 

Mix  two  large  spoonfuls  of  pulverized  rhubarb,  two 
of  cinnamon,  two  of  lump-sugar,  the  same  of  French 
brandy,  and  half  a  pint  of  Avater.  Give  a  tea-spoonful 
three  times  every  hour  till  the  complaint  is  checked. 
Blackberry  syrup  is  an  excellent  remedy.  The  diet 
should  be  light,  such  as  milk  porridge,  toast,  etc.  The 
little  weed  called  camp-weed,  or  mouse-ear,  is  a  sure 
remedy.  Make  a  tea  of  it,  and  drink  as  occasion  re- 
quires. 


230  EXCELSIOR   COOK   BOOK 

BILIOUS    COIilO. 

Flannel  wet  in  hot  brandy,  with  mustard  or  Cayenne 
pepper  sprinkled  over,  and  laid  on  the  bowels,  will 
often  give  relief.  A  little  soda  and  spearmint  tea  is 
good.  A  tea-spoonfiil  of  Cayenne  pepper,  one  of  sugar, 
and  a  very  little  boiling  water  poured  on,  and  sip  hot, 
will  give  relief.  If  the  bowels  are  inactive,  give  injec- 
tions. A  pint  of  starch,  half  a  pint  of  molasses,  a  pint 
of  milk,  a  wine-glass  of  sweet  oil  or  fresh  lard,  and  a 
table-spoonful  of  salt.  Thoroughwort  bitters,  as  given 
in  this  book,  will  entirely  cure  this  complaint  if  taken 

long  enough. 

CHOLERA  MORBUS. 

Take  a  tea-spooonful  of  soda,  cinnamon  cloves,  pour 
on  a  pint  of  boiling  water,  and  when  nearly  cold,  add 
a  large  spoonful  of  brandy,  and  sweeten  with  lump- 
sugar.  Give  a  large  spoonful  every  half-hour.  If  much 
pain,  give  injections. 

HUMORS. 

spring  beer  is  good,  putting  in  plenty  of  yellow-dock  ; 
rub  a  little  on  the  face  for  slight  eruptions,  but  never 
try  to  drive  them  away,  for  it  is  better  for  the  health 
to  have  them  come  out,  but  diet  and  purify  the  blood. 
A  little  salt  taken  occasionally  is  good.  Saffron  is  good 
to  send  out  the  humors.  For  boils,  make  a  plaster  of 
rye  bread  and  honey,  or  flour  and  molasses  if  the  for- 
mer can  not  be  obtained ;  change  as  often  as  it  dries,  until 
it  comes  to  a  head.  Then  make  a  poultice  of  bread 
and  milk,  and  if  very  painful  add  laudanum.  Epsom 
salts  dissolved,  and  bathe  the  face  where  there  are 
any  eruptions,  is  good. 

CATARRH  IN   THE    HEAD. 

Snuff  fresh  water  every  night  and  morning,  and  make 
a  snuff  of  gum-arabic,  gum-myrrh,  and  bloodroot  pul- 
verized ;  wash  the  head  and  neck  frequently.  This  is 
a  very  common  disease,  and  will  end  in  consumption. 

MEASLES. 

Bathe  the  feet,  putting  a  spoonful  of  ginger  in  the 
water  ;  keep  the  patient  comfortably  warm  ;  give  cool- 


AND  housekeeper's   AID,  231 

ing  drinks.  It  is  a  mistaken  notion  to  give  hot  drinks 
when  a  person  has  the  measles.  Something  is  required 
to  allay  inflammation,  not  increase  it. 

MUMPS. 

Bathe  the  SAvelling  with  volatile  ointment,  and  wrap 
in  cotton,  being  careful  not  to  take  cold.  Perspiration 
kept  up  by  warm  drinks,  and  the  bowels  kept  regular. 

SPINAL    DIFFICULTIES. 

Bathe  in  tepid  salt  and  water  is  good,  keeping  very 
quiet,  not  using  the  arms  much. 

■WOKMS    IN   CHILDBEW. 

Sage,  powdered  fine  and  mixed  with  molasses,  is 
good,  adding  a  very  little  saleratus.  Salt  and  water  is 
good  to  prevent  fits. 

TO   REMOVE   PROUD    FLESH. 

Loaf-sugar  pulverized  very  fine,  and  apply  to  the 
part.  It  is  said  to  remove  it  without  pain.  Burnt 
alum  is  good,  but  causes  it  to  smart. 

AGUE   IN   THE   FACE. 

Make  a  poultice  of  Indian  meal  and  poppy  leaves, 
which  should  always  be  dried  and  put  in  a  paper  bag 
for  use.  Hops  are  also  good,  mustard  or  ginger  poul- 
tices.    A  bag  of  salt  heated  very  hot  is  good. 

TOOTHACHE. 

Hop  water  is  very  good  to  hold  hot  in  the  mouth, 
and  is  not  injurious  to  the  teeth.  Ked  pepper  and  cam- 
phor, laudanum,  peppermint,  salt,  and  many  other 
things  put  in  the  cavity  of  the  tooth  will  stop  tooth- 
ache. Burnt  alum  is  good,  but  the  best  thing  is  to 
have  the  tooth  extracted,  as  bad  teeth  injure  the  health. 
An  onion  cut  in  two  and  placed  upon  each  foot  will 
give  relief. 

HEADACHE. 

This  is  a  very  prevalent  complaint,  and  arises  from 
different  causes.  If  owing  to  acidity  in  the  stomach, 
a  little  soda  will  do  it  good.  Hop  tea,  camomile,  sage, 
Cayenne  pepper,  is  good  for  nervous  headache  ;  a  few 


232  EXCELSIOR  COOK  BOOK 

drops  of  camphor  or  hartshorn  will  sometimes  give  re- 
lief; bathing  the  feet  in  warm,  and  the  head  in  cold 
water,  putting  mustard  poultices  on  the  feet,  and  the 
back  part  of  the  neck,  is  good.  If  it  proceeds  from  a 
deficiency  of  acid  in  the  stomach,  a  lemon,  or  a  few 
drops  of  nitric  acid,  will  relieve ;  tie  the  head  with  a 
bandage  very  tight,  applying  a  brown  paper  wet  with 
salt  and  vinegar.  If  subject  to  the  headache,  it  is  ad- 
visable to  die 

NEURALGIA. 

Bathing  in  cold  water,  particularly  where  the  pain  is 
located.  A  tea  made  of  hops,  valerian,  motherwort, 
or  sage,  will  quiet  the  nerves,  and  often  afford  relief. 
Camphor  and  water  are  good. 

RHEUMATISM. 

This  is  very  much  like  neuralgia,  and  must  be  treat- 
ed almost  in  the  same  way.  Bathing  well  with  cold 
water,  and  rubbing  with  a  flannel  to  get  up  a  circula- 
tion, is  good;  hop  tea  or  brisk  cider  with  ginger  is  good. 
Lemons  are  excellent  for  rheumatism. 

HYDROPHOBIA. 

Wash  and  cleanse  the  wound,  then  apply  the  nitrate 
of  silver  to  every  part  of  it.  It  should  be  done  imme- 
diately. 

STIFF   JOINTS. 

For  stiff  joints,  take  strong  salt  and  water,  beeFs 
gall,  one  gill  each,  the  yolk  of  four  eggs  beat  up  ;  mix 
well  together,  and  apply  three  times  a  day. 

QUINSY. 

Inhale  the  steam  of  hops,  or  wormwood  and  vinegar, 
and  bind  some  on  the  throat,  is  good.  Gargle  the 
throat  with  weak  lye,  and  if  much  swelled,  apply  a 
slippery  elm  or  flax-seed  j)oultice  made  with  weak  lye. 

TREATMENT    OF    COLDS. 

If  feverish,  bathe  the  feet  in  warm  water,  take  some 
hot  herb  tea,  or  hot  lemonade,  but  use  no  spirits,  as 
this  will  only  increase  the  fever.  Get  up  a  perspiration, 
and  be  careful  about  exposure  the  next  day. 


AND   housekeeper's   AID.  233 

ASTHMA. 

Dissolve  a  jDint  of  saltpetre  in  a  pint  of  water,  dip 
sheets  of  fine  brown  paper  in  till  they  become  satu- 
rated, then  dry  the  paper.  Barn  a  strip  of  it  in  a  close 
room,  having  the  patient  exhaling  the  flames  of  it. 

FOR   RHEUMATISM. 

Take  two  drachms  of  camphor,  gum  guiacum  one 
ounce,  nitre  one  ounce,  two  drachms  of  balsam  tolu, 
one  quart  of  spirits ;  mix  well,  and  take  half  a  tea- 
spoonful  three  times  a  day  in  a  little  water. 

ANOTHEK. 

One  pint  of  the  best  brandy,  one  ounce  of  guiacum 
powdered  fine;  take  as  much  at  a  time  as  you  can  bear. 

FOR   A   SPRAINED   ANKLE. 

Wash  the  ankle  in  cold  salt  and  water,  and  keep  the 
feet  cool  as  possible,  to  prevent  inflammation,  and  have 
it  elevated  on  a  cushion.  Live  on  a  low  diet,  and  take 
some  cooling  medicine  every  day. 

HOARHOUND    CANDY. 

Take  fresh  hoarhound  as  green  as  you  can  get  it ;  cut 
up  stalks  and  all ;  scald  a'pitcher,  then  put  in  the  hoar- 
hound,  pressing  it  down  with  your  hands.  It  should 
be  two  thirds  full.  Fill  up  with  boiling  water  ;  cover 
perfectly  tight,  to  prevent  any  of  the  strength  escaping 
with  the  steam ;  set  it  close  to  the  fire  until  it  comes  to 
a  hard  boil,  then  strain  it  and  mix  loaf-sugar  to  make 
a  paste.  Put  it  over  the  fire  and  boil  until  sufiiciently 
hard.  Try  some  in  water ;  if  crispy,  it  is  done  ;  then 
make  into  sticks. 

SPITTING  BLOOD. 

Take  three  spoonfuls  of  sage  juice  in  a  little  honey, 
or  two  spoonfuls  of  nettle  juice.  Alum  dissolved  in 
water  is  good. 

TO   PREVENT   NAILS  GROOVING   DOWN  INTO  THE 

TOES. 

This  is  a  very  troublesome  disease,  but  easily  cured 
if  managed  rightly ;  take  a  sharp-jpointed  knife,  and 


234  EXCELSIOR   COOK   BOOK 

cut  a  furrow  all  along  the  top  of  the  nail  lengthwise ; 
when  it  fills  up,  scrape  it  out  again.  This  will  cause 
the  nail  to  contract  at  the  top,  and  will  loosen  its  hold 
from  the  flesh. 

A   CURE   FOR  BARBER'S   ITCH. 

Take  corrosive  sublimate,  and  add  oil  of  almonds, 
apply  to  the  face  occasionally,  and  a  cure  will  soon  be 
effected. 

CAMPHOR   SPIRITS. 

Every  family  should  prepare  the  liquid  camphor  for 
convenience  and  economy.  Buy  three  ounces  of  cam- 
phor gum  and  a  quart  of  alcohol ;  break  up  the  gum 
and  put  in  a  bottle ;  then  pour  on  the  alcohol,  and  cork 
closely.  It  is  best  to  take  some  out  for  use,  and  keep 
the  larger  bottle  well  corked.  For  bathing  it  should 
have  half  whisky  and  half  alcohol  put  on,  the  alcohol 
first  to  cut  the  gum,  then  add  the  whisky.  For  faint- 
ness  or  nervous  pains,  pour  a  few  drops  into  a  wine- 
glass of  water  and  swallow  it.  Peppermint  should 
be  likewise  prepared  for  family  use.  Purchase  the  oil, 
and  pour  on  alcohol  to  cut  it.  It  is  much  cheaper  than 
to  get  it  at  the  druggist's.  It  is  said  that  a  cranberry 
bound  on  a  corn  will  soon  cure  it. 

FOR   'WEAK    EYES. 

Take  rose  leaves  and  steep  till  the  strength  is  out ; 
then  bottle  and  use  as  a  wash.  It  is  well  to  dry  the 
leaves  and  keep  in  a  paper  bag.  Cold  tea  is  very  good 
for  weak  eyes.  Milk  and  water  is  also  good.  Twenty 
drops  of  laudanum  and  five  of  brandy  in  a  wine-glassful 
of  Avater  is  good ;  apply  three  times  a  day,  hot. 

A  DRESSING  FOR   A   BLISTER. 

Pure  hog's  lard,  three  quarters  of  a  pound,  two 
ounces  of  white  wax ;  melt  in  an  earthen  vessel ;  stir 
till  cold,  and  keep  covered  up  close. 

TO  PREVENT  THE  RECURRENCE  OP  BOILS. 

Take  a  table-spoonful  of  yeast  in  a  glass  of  water 
twice  a  day.  The  leaven  of  gingerbread  is  good  to 
put  on  a  boil. 


AND   housekeeper's   AID.  235 

COHNS. 

Roast  an  onion  in  the  ashes,  and  apply  until  cured. 
Dip  a  linen  cloth  in  sweet  oil,  or,  what  is  better,  castor 
oil,  and  keep  the  part  wrapped  in  it  until  a  permanent 
cure  is  effected.     This  is  also  good  for  chilblains. 

CUBE   FOR   A  COUGH. 

Take  half  an  ounce  of  gum-arabic,  the  same  of  liquor- 
ice-JLiice  ;  dissolve  the  gum  in  warm  water ;  squeeze 
in  the  juice  of  a  lemon;  add  two  drachms  of  paregoric, 
one  drachm  of  squills.  Cork  it  in  a  bottle  and  shake 
well.  Take  one  tea-spoonful  when  the  cough  is  trouble- 
some. 

MEDICAL   EFFECTS   OF   HOT   -WATER. 

In  bruises,  hot  water  is  good  to  prevent  stiffness  and 
discoloration ;  also  for  removing  pain.  It  should  be 
applied  as  soon  as  possible,  and  as  hot  as  it  can  be 
borne.  Insertion  in  hot  water  will  cure  a  whitlow,  if 
done  in  season. 

FOR   CHAPPED    HANDS. 

Mix  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  unsalted  hog's  lard, 
which  has  been  washed  in  cold  water,  and  then  rose- 
water,  with  the  yolks  of  tw^o  eggs,  and  a  large  spoonful 
of  honey ;  add  as  much  fine  oatmeal  or  almond  paste 
as  will  work  into  a  proper  consistency,  and  rub  in  well 
before  going  to  bed.  Ahnond  paste  is  very  nice  for 
the  skin. 

THE  NAUSEOUS  TASTE  OF  MEDICINE  PREVENTED. 

Chew  a  little  orange  or  lemon-peel,  a  clove,  or  any 
spice  you  like  before  taking  medicine  ;  a  peppermint 
lozenge  is  good,  or  a  lump  of  sugar  with  a  drop  or  two 
of  peppermint  put  on.  You  will  scarcely  taste  the  me- 
dicine. 

TO   PURIFY    THE    AIR    OF    A    SICK-ROOM. 

Take  six  drachms  of  powdered  nitre,  and  the  same 
quantity  of  the  oil  of  vitriol ;  mix  together  by  adding 
to  the  nitre  one  drachm  of  the  vitriol  at  a  time,  placing 
the  vessel  in  which  you  are  mixing  it  on  a  hot  hearth 
or  plate  of  heated  iron ;  stir  with  a  tobacco-pipe  or 


236  EXCELSIOR   COOK  BOOK 

glass  rod ;  then  place  the  vessel  in  the  contaminated 
room.  Dr.  J.  C.  Smith  obtained  £5000  from  the  Eng- 
lish Parliament  for  this  recipe.  Onions  are  good  placed 
in  a  sick-room,  although  the  smell  is  bad.  Chloride  of 
lime  is  good  to  cleanse  a  room. 

STIES   TN   THE   EYE. 

Sties  are  little  abscesses  which  form  in  the  roots  of 
the  eyelashes,  and  are  rarely  larger  than  a  pea.  Bathe 
them  frequently  with  warm  water ;  when  they  break, 
use  an  ointment  composed  Of  one  part  citron  ointment, 
and  four  of  spermaceti  well  rubbed  together,  and  apply 
along  the  edges  of  the  eyelid. 

LUMBAGO,   OR  STIFF  NECK. 

Dip  a  piece  of  flannel  in  scalding  hot  water ;  sprinkle 
some  turpentine  on  and  apply  to  the  part  affected  by 
the  pain ;  repeat  this  several  times,  and  it  will  afford 
relief  One  third  hartshorn  to  two  thirds  oil,  and  rub 
with  the  bare  hand,  is  also  good. 

TO   MAKE   PAREGORIC. 

Take  opium  one  drachm,  flowers  of  benzoin  one 
drachm,  camphor  two  scruples,  oil  of  anise  one  drachm, 
liquorice  one  ounce,  spirits  of  wine  one  quart.  Dose, 
a  tea-spoonful  for  an  adult. 

GODFREY'S  CORDIAL. 

Dissolve  half  an  ounce  of  opium,  one  drachm  of  the 
oil  of  sassafras  in  two  ounces  of  spirits  of  wine.  Mix 
four  pounds  of  treacle  with  one  gallon  of  boiling  water, 
and  when  cold  mix  together.  This  is  the  celebrated 
cordial  so  much  used  for  children. 

A  SYRUP  FOR  PURIFYING  THE  BLOOD. 

Take  six  pounds  of  sarsaparilla,  three  ounces  of  gum- 
guiacum,  two  pounds  of  the  bark  of  sassafras  root,  two 
pounds  of  elder-flowers,  two  pounds  of  burdock  root ; 
add  one  gallon  of  spirits  and  one  gallon  of  water ;  boil 
and  pour  off  the  liquor  till  all  the  strength  is  obtained  ; 
boil  down  to  six  quarts ;  add  fifteen  pounds  of  sugar. 
The  spirit  should  not  be  added  till  boiled  down  to  two 


AND   housekeeper's   AID.  237 

quarts.  Yellow  dock  and  sweet-apple  tree  bark  should 
be  added  also.  Put  a  tea-spoonful  of  saleratus  to  each 
bottle.    Take  a  wine-glassful  three  times  a  day. 

Spirits  of  Turpentine  will  cure  freezing  if  applied 
at  once.     It  is  also  good  for  burns. 

A  TEA-spooNFUL  of  castor  oil  and  a  table-spoonful  of 
molasses  mixed  together,  is  a  good  remedy  for  hoop- 
ing-cough ;  take  daily. 

For  "Scari^t  Fever,  bathe  the  patient  all  over  in 
weak  lye. 

As  MUCH  Cayenne  pepper,  taken  hot,  as  you  can 
bear,  is  a  sure  remedy  for  sea-sickness. 

One  drop  of  the  oil  of  cinnamon  will  cure  the  hic- 
cough. 

TO   TAKE   OUT    THORNS   AND    SPLINTERS. 

Make  a  plaster  of  turpentine  and  tallow  ;  spread  on 
leather,  and  apply  it.  A  decoction  of  the  pine  tree, 
sweetened  with  loaf-sugar,  is  an  excellent  remedy  for  a 
cold. 

^WHITLOW. 

Steep  in  distilled  vinegar,  as  hot  as  you  can  bear  it, 
four  or  five  times  a  day,  for  two  days,  then  moisten  a 
tobacco-leaf  in  the  vinegar  and  bind  round  the  part,  and 
a  cure  follows. 

IMPROVED   METHOD    OP    TAKING   SENNA. 

"When  steeped,  put  in  allspice  or  any  other  kind,  and 
steep  with  it,  and  it  will  prevent  the  griping  for  which 
senna  is  noted. 

FOR  MEASLES,  SMALL-POX,  AND  SCARLET  FEVER. 

Take  elderblows,  one  lemon,  a  tea-spoonful  of  cream 
of  tartar ;  pour  on  boiling  water,  and  Avhen  cold,  strain, 
and  give  a  cupful  every  two  hours. 

FOR   RHEUMATISM   AND    NEURALGIA. 

Make  a  liniment  of  the  tincture  of  belladonna  one 
oimce,  aconite  half  an  ounce,  chloroform  half  an  ounce. 

"WALNUTS  FOR  MEDICINE. 

Take  when  fit  for  pickling ;  lay  them  in  a  stone  jar 
with  plenty  of  moist  sugar ;  place  the  jar  in  a  kettle 


238  EXCELSIOR   COOK  BOOK 

of  boiling  water,  and  simmer  some  time ;  the  sugar 
when  dissolved  should  cover  the  walnuts.  In  six 
months  it  will  be  fit  for  use  ;  if  older,  it  will  be  still 
better.  One  walnut  is  sufiicient  for  a  child  six  years 
old,  as  a  purgative.  These  should  always  be  prepared 
where  there  are  children. 

HUSK    BEDS. 

Select  the  inner  husks ;  clip  the  ends,  but  not  the 
butts  ;  put  them  in  the  tick  ;  do  not  split  them  ;  once 
in  two  years  separate  all  the  fine  husks,  dust,  and  pieces, 
and  replenish  with  new  ones.  They  are  preferable  for 
under-beds  to  straw. 

DAWDELIOKT   BEER. 

Take  two  ounces  or  more  of  dandelion  roots  ;  after 
being  well  washed,  boil  in  six  quarts  of  water  for  thirty 
minutes  ;  strain  and  add  a  pint  of  molasses,  half  a  tea- 
cupful  of  yeast ;  let  it  ferment  twelve  hours.  To  be 
drank  every  morning  and  evening. 

A  FEW    PRACTICAL    HINTS    ON   GAR- 
DENING. 

Every  house,  if  possible,  should  have  attached  to  it 
a  good  vegetable  garden,  it  is  so  conducive  to  the 
health,  happiness,  and  comfort  of  a  family.  A  garden 
well  managed  will  supply,  with  a  little  expense  and 
trouble,  a  variety  of  nutritious  and  luxurious  food  the 
year  round.  Neither  should  the  flower  or  fruit  gar- 
den be  forgotten  or  neglected.  Every  house  can  have 
a  few  trailing  vines,  some  shrubbery  and  plants  to 
adorn  and  beautify  it,  with  little  or  no  expense.  Rose- 
bushes, lilacs,  snowballs,  syringa,  and  others  are  easily 
cultivated,  and  with  their  beauty  and  fragrance  will 
contribute  much  to  the  enjoyment  of  home. 

TOMATOES. 

They  should  be  sown  in  a  hot-bed,  and  the  last  of 
May  can  be  transplanted  about  four  feet  apart  in  rich 
ground.  The  great  secret  of  transplanting  is  to  do  it 
in  such  a  way  as  not  to  impede  their  growth.     A  hole 


AND   housekeeper's   AID.  ^39 

made  in  the  ground,  and  water  poured  in ;  then  set  the 
plant  and  press  the  dirt  around  well,  shading  it  for  a 
few  days,  is  a  very  good  way  of  doing  it.  When  the 
tomato  begins  to  set,  cut  off  the  top  vines,  and  the  to- 
matoes will  be  larger  and  better  flavored. 

CELERY 

should  be  sowed  in  a  hot-bed,  and  transplanted  in  rich 
compost  and  earth  about  six  inches  apart,  in  a  deep 
trench,  and  as  they  grow,  di%w  the  earth  around  them, 
but  not  to  touch  the  central  part.  It  is  a  saline  plant, 
and  should  be  watered  with  salt  and  water.  In  the 
fall  cover  them  up  with  earth  and  straw  for  winter  use, 
or  take  them  up  carefully,  so  as  not  to  break  or  bruise 
them,  else  they  will  rot.  Lay  them  upright  in  a  box 
of  dry  sand,  and  keep  in  the  cellar. 

CAULIFIiOWER  AND   BROCCOLI. 

These  vegetables  are  cultivated  like  the  common 
species  of  cabbage  ;  grow  in  rich  soil  and  occasionally 
sprinkle  salt  over  them,  the  same  as  cabbage.  Vege- 
table oysters  are  raised  the  same  as  other  spindle- 
shaped  roots. 

ASPARAGUS. 

If  this  is  raised  from  the  seed,  it  will  take  two  or 
three  years  to  bring  it  to  maturity.  The  soil  should 
be  made  rich ;  in  the  fall  and  in  the  spring  the  earth 
should  be  hoed  two  or  three  inches  over  the  beds,  and 
the  compost  mixed  in ;  the  weeds  must  be  kept  out, 
and  when  the  tops  are  cut  off,  take  them  close  to  the 
surface.  This  plant  is  saline,  and  is  benefited  by 
sprinkling  salt  and  water  over. 

RHUBARB. 

This  may  be  raised  from  the  seed,  but  will  take  so 
long  to  bring  to  perfection  that  they  should  be  started 
from  the  roots.  It  requires  rich  soil  and  good  cultiva- 
tion. The  leaves  are  poison  ;  the  root  is  used  for  me- 
dicine. 

EGG-PLANT 

must  be  raised  in  a  hot-bed,  and  transplanted  in  June, 
about  two  feet  apart.     Pepper-grass  may  be  sown  in 


240  EXCELSIOR   COOK  BOOK 

drills  with  lettuce  or  alone.    ISTasturtions  are  very  pretty 

as  a  flower,  and  are  used  for  pickle.     They  require  a 

frame-work. 

MAKTINOES 

are  easily  cultivated ;  pour  boiling  water  on  the  seeds ; 
then  plant  in  hills  like  cucumbers.  When  a  pin  will 
run  through  easily,  they  must  be  pickled. 

PEPPERS. 

There  are  many  varieties  of  peppers,  but  the  large 
red  sweet  pepper  is  best  for  pickling.  They  should  be 
started  in  a  hot-bed. 

SHRUBS. 

Give  them  a  rich  soil,  and  protect  the  tender  ones  in 
winter  by  covering  with  straw.  Shrubs  are  generally 
obtained  from  cuttings,  suckers,  or  buds.  The  suckers 
are  young  plants  that  shoot  up  around  a  shrub,  which 
can  be  separated  in  autumn  or  spring,  and  transplanted. 
If  cuttings  are  taken,  they  should  be  of  last  year's 
growth,  and  planted  four  or  six  inches  from  the  end  of 
the  stem,  or  cut  off  the  top  of  the  stem,  which  is  better. 
Kose-bushes  should  be  pruned  after  they  have  done 
flowering ;  cut  out  the  old  wood,  shorten  shoots  that 
have  a  good  bud  and  are  healthy.  If  insects  are  trouble- 
some, steep  tobacco  leaves  in  water  and  sprinkle  with 
it ;  examine  the  bushes,  and  if  any  worms  are  found, 
kill  them ;  soot  is  good  also.  Never  water  plants  when 
the  sun  shines ;  morning  and  evening  is  best,  except 
when  just  transplanted,  when  they  should  he  kept 
shaded.  Fall  is  the  best  time  to  set  out  plants  or  shrub- 
bery. Honeysuckles  are  increased  by  turning  the  ends 
downward  into  the  ground. 

TO    OBTAIN"    DIFFERENT    FLO^WERS    FROM    THE 
SAME    STEM. 

Split  a  small  twig  of  elder-bush  lengthwise ;  scoop 
out  the  pith ;  fill  with  flower-seeds  of  diflerent  sorts, 
but  which  blossom  about  the  same  time ;  surroimd  with 
mould  ;  tie  together,  and  plant  the  whole  in  the  earth. 

TO   RESTORE   FLOWERS. 

Take  a  bouquet  which  has  begun  to  fade,  and  im- 
merse the  ends  in  scalding  water,  deep  enough  to  cover 


AND   housekeeper's   AID.  241 

one  third  of  the  length  of  the  stem ;  let  them  remain 
till  the  water  is  cold ;  then  cut  oflf  the  ends  and  put 
them  in  cold  water. 

TO   HASTEN   THE   BLOWING-   OF   FLOWERS. 

Take  sulphate  or  nitrate  of  ammonia  four  ounces, 
nitrate  of  potash  two  ounces,  sugar  one  ounce,  a  pint 
of  hot  water,  dissolve  and  keep  in  a  bottle  ;  for  plants 
in  pots,  add  a  few  drops  in  the  water  when  watered. 

GOOSEBERRIES. 

It  must  be  well  trimmed  every  spring,  never  allowing 
two  branches  to  rub  against  each  other.  Dig  around 
it,  and  enrich  the  soil;  sprinkle  soap-suds  from  the 
wah-tub  on  and  around  it  till  it  blossoms. 

The  currant  should  be  cultivated  in  the  same  way, 
and  the  fruit  will  be  larger  and  better  flavored.  Ashes 
applied  to  the  roots  are  good. 

RASPBERRIES. 

The  white  and  the  large  English  raspberry  are  the 
best  to  cultivate.  Set  them  in  a  moist  soil,  partly 
shaded,  and  they  will  produce  large  and  well-flavored 
berries  ;  keep  them  well  trimmed  and  supported  with 
frames. 

BLACKBERRIES. 

The  Lawton  and  the  white  are  the  best  flavored,  and 
are  easily  cultivated.  Set  them  in  rich  soil  and  keep 
trimmed. 

STRAWBERRIES. 

Set  in  a  rich  soil,  with  plenty  of  charcoal  dust  sprink- 
led and  hoed  in ;  keep  out  the  runners,  and  you  will 
have  plenty  of  nice  large  berries.  Hovey's  Seedling, 
and  Wilson's  are  the  most  acceptable  to  raise.  > 

DAHLIAS. 

These  can  be  raised  from  the  seed,  but  are  better 
raised  from  the  root.  When  they  are  done  flowering, 
cut  off"  the  tops  and  let  them  ripen  ;  if  in  any  danger 
from  frost,  cover  with  earth  five  or  six  days  ;  then  dig 
up  and  lay  in  a  box  of  dry  sand ;  keep  in  the  cellar  if 
11 


242  EXCELSIOR   COOK  BOOK 

not  too  damp.  They  must  not  be  kept  too  dry  nor  too 
damp.  Take  them  out  in  April  or  earlier,  and  put  them 
in  light  earth  to  sprout.  About  the  last  of  May  set  out 
in  beds  well  prepared  Avith  rich  compost ;  place  a  stake 
near,  and  fasten  with  twine,  that  the  wind  may  not 
blow  them  over. 

GEBANIUMS 

are  easily  propagated  from  slips ;  in  the  summer  may 
be  placed  out-doors  ;  in  the  winter  must  be  potted,  and 
the  ground  kept  moist.    They  do  not  require  much  sun. 

CALIiAS,   OR  ETHIOPIAN"   LILY. 

This  requires  much  watering,  except  while  in  blos- 
som ;  give  it  plenty  of  air  and  light.  It  is  best  propa- 
gated by  suckers. 

MONTHLY  EOSES. 

Water  them  in  proportion  as  they  receive  it.  They 
need  plenty  of  sun  and  air.  They  can  be  hardened  to 
remain  out-doors  in  winter. 

THE   CACTUS. 

The  cactus  should  have  rich  soil,  kept  moist,  particu- 
larly about  the  time  of  blossoming,  when  they  require 
more  moisture. 

DIRECTIONS    FOR  WASHING  CALICOES. 

Black  calicoes  are  very  apt  to  fade,  and  great  care 
should  be  used  in  washing  them.  They  should  either 
be  washed  in  water  where  potatoes  have  been  boiled, 
or  a  starch-water  made  by  scraping  two  or  three  po- 
tatoes. Pour  boiling  water  on  wheat-bran,  then  strain 
it,  and  when  lukewarm  wash  them  in  that,  using  no 
soap.  If  there  are  any  grease-spots  on  calicoes,  a 
little  hard  soap  should  be  rubbed  on  before  going  into 
the  water,  as  the  spots  can  not  be  seen  after  wetting 
them.  They  should  not  be  washed  in  very  hot  water, 
as  they  are  more  liable  to  fade.  Old  soft  soap  a  year 
old,  will  answer  as  well  to  wash  with  as  hard  soap ; 
but  new  soap  should  never  be  used  except  for  yellow. 
All  colors  should  be  rinsed  well  in  clear  water  and 
dried  in  the  shade.     Alum  is  good  to  set  the  color  of 


a:ni>  housekeeper's  aid.  243 

green;  a  little  salt  put  in  the  rinsing  water  where 
blue,  black  or  green  are  washed,  will  prevent  the 
colors  running  into  each  other.  As  little  soap  as 
possible  should  be  put  into  the  water,  and  when  cali- 
coes lade,  beef's  gall  should  be  put  in.  They  should 
be  rinsed  the  moment  they  are  washed,  and  then  hung 
up  to  dry — never  allowed  to  remain  wet  any  time. 

DIRECTIONS   FOR  ^WASHING  "WOOLENS. 

Take  clear  soft  water,  have  it  cold,  and  put  a  little 
soap  in  ;  if  very  dirty,  make  quite  a  suds,  using  hard 
soap,  or  old  soft  soap.  Wash  them  perfectly  clean, 
and  rinse  in  cold  water  and  hang  up  to  dry.  A  little 
indieo  in  the  rinsinsr-Avater  makes  them  look  nicer. 
Colored  flannels  that  are  inclmed  to  fade,  should  be 
washed  in  beef's  gall  before  washing  in  suds.  Press 
them  before  they  are  dry.  If  woolens  are  washed  in 
warm  water,  they  should  be  dried  in  a  heated  room. 

DIRECTIONS   FOR   WASHINQ  WHITE    CLOTHES. 

Table-cloths  or  napkins  that  have  fruit-stains  or 
coffee  on  them,  should  have  boiling  water  poured  on, 
and  let  them  remain  until  cold,  then  wash  out  the 
stains  before  putting  into  the  suds,  as  soap  will  set 
them.  If  put  into  milk  before  washing,  the  stains  will 
come  out. 

Clothes  wash  much  easier  in  soft  water  than  in  hard, 
and  do  not  require  as  much  soap.  If  the  water  is 
hard,  it  can  be  softened  by  putting  in  a  little  bag  of 
ashes  while  the  water  is  heating,  or  a  little  sal-soda. 
It  is  a  great  saving  of  labor  to  use  a  jDOun ding-barrel ; 
have  a  hot  suds  and  pound  the  clothes,  then  wring 
them  out  and  wash  in  a  tub.  If  any  streaks  are  left 
in,  soap  them  and  put  into  cold  water  and  boil.  Then 
take  them  out,  and  pour  on  cold  water  sufficient  to 
put  the  hands  in,  suds  well  and  rinse  with  a  little 
blueing  put  in  the  water;  if  blueing  is  put  in  the 
water  while  boiling,  the  clothes  will  look  clearer,  and 
they  will  not  require  as  much  in  the  rinsing-water.  A 
little  sal-soda  will  take  the  dirt  out  while  boiling,  but 
I  think  it  injures  the  texture  of  the  cloth,  and  should 


S44  EXCELSIOJR   COOK   BOOK 

be  well  rinsed  out ;  besides,  it  is  not  good  to  wash 
calicoes. 

I  have  sometimes  put  a  table  spoonful  of  spirits  of 
turpentine  in  while  boiling.  It  makes  clothes  look 
clear,  but  is  not  healthy  to  use  in  that  way,  and  I 
think  the  best  way  is  to  use  only  soap  and  water. 
The  suds  should  be  saved  to  put  on  shrubbery,  or  to 
harden  walks  or  yards,  when  graveled. 

TO   CLEAN   WOOLEN"   AND    SILK   SHAWLS. 

Pare  and  grate  raw  potatoes ;  pour  on  cold  water, 
and  let  it  remain  half  a  day ;  then  strain  it  through  a 
sieve,  and  let  the  strained  water  settle  again.  Put  a 
clean  sheet  on  a  table,  and  spread  the  shawl  on 
smooth,  pinning  the  corners  down ;  take  a  clean  sponge 
and  dip  in  the  potato-water ;  then  wash  it  all  over,  and 
rinse  in  clear  water  with  salt  in  it.  Spread  out  to 
dry — if  hung  up,  the  colors  will  spread.  Fold  it 
quite  damj^,  and  put  a  heavy  weight  on,  and  let  it 
remain  to  dry. 

TO   CLEAN   SILKS   AND   RIBBONS. 

Take  equal  quantities  of  soft  soap  and  alcohol  and 
molasses ;  mix  well  and  lay  the  silk  on  a  table,  and 
rub  over  with  the  mixture,  using  a  flannel  cloth ;  rinse 
in  cold  water  and  hang  up  to  dry ;  iron  on  the  wrong 
side  before  it  gets  dry.  Deer's  horn  sawed  in  small 
pieces,  and  boiled  several  hours  in  water,  and  then 
strained,  is  nice  to  dress  silk  with.  It  gives  a  stiffness 
and  lustre  almost  like  new.  Camphene  will  extract 
grease,  but  will  sometimes  change  the  color.  They 
should  be  dried  in  the  open  air,  and  ironed  before 
they  are  entirely  dry. 

TO  EXTRACT  GREASE  FROM  MERINOS,  SILKS,  ETC. 

Spread  on  magnesia  or  powdered  chalk,  and  let  it 
remain  a  few  hours ;  then  blow  off  and  put  on  more, 
and  continue  this  until  the  grease  is  removed. 

TO    RESTORE   VELVETS. 

Steam  them  by  liolding  them  over  a  kettle  of  boiling 
water,  then  pass  the  under  side  of  the  velvet  over  a 


AND   HOUSEKEEPER*S   AID.  245 

warm  smoothing-iron.  The  best  way  for  doing  this  is 
for  one  person  to  hokl  the  velvet  tight,  and  anotlier 
pass  the  iron  over  on  the  wrong  side,  then  spread  the 
velvet  out,  and  pass  a  soft  brush  over  the  right  side. 

TO    'WASH    KIGOLETTES,  ^WOOLEN"    SHA^WLS,   AND 
ZEPHYB  "WOOL. 

Put  into  warm  water,  and  let  it  remain  until  nearly 
cold ;  then  squeeze  it  with  white  soap,  lay  it  in  a  col- 
ander and  set  it  over  a  pan  of  boiling  water,  and  let  it 
remain  until  cool ;  then  squeeze  it  out  and  shake  it 
well ;  then  place  it  over  another  pan  of  boiling  water, 
rinsing  it  up  and  down  until  the  soap  is  rinsed  off, 
then  shake  it  well  and  dry  fast. 

TO   REMOVE   MILDE^W  EKOM   LINEW. 

Rub  it  over  with  soap ;  then  scrape  fine  chalk  or 
whitening,  and  rub  on.  Lay  it  in  the  sun,  and  wet  it 
from  time  to  time;  if  not  removed,  repeat  the  pro- 
cess.    Lemon-juice  and  salt  is  also  good. 

TO   REMOVE   INK   OR  IRON-RUST. 

Wet  the  place  with  sorrel  or  lemon-juice,  and  rub 
on  hard  white  soap.  As  it  is  the  acid  which  extracts, 
vinegar  or  any  other  acid  will  answer.  It  should  be 
exposed  to  the  heat.  Colored  cotton  goods  that  have 
ink  spilled  on  them,  should  be  soaked  in  milk,  either 
sour  or  sweet  skim-milk,  before  wetting  in  water. 
Iron-rust  can  be  taken  out  by  applying  lemon-juice 
and  salt,  and  exposing  it  to  the  sun.  A  few  crystals 
of  oxalic  acid  on  the  spot,  pour  on  a  little  warm  water 
to  dissolve  it.  It  should  be  used  Avith  care,  as  it  is 
poisonous. 

TO   REMOVE   SPOTS   OF   PITCH  OR  TAR. 

Scrape  off  all  the  pitch  or  tar  you  can,  and  then 
warm  some  lard,  or  any  kind  of  oil  will  do  ;  rub  it 
well,  and  let  remain  in  a  warm  place  two  hours;  then 
rub  on  soap  and  wash  in  suds. 

STAINS    FROM  BROADCLOTH. 

Grind  an  ounce  of  pipe-clay  fine,  and  mix  twelve 
di'ops  of  turjjentine,  the  same  of  alcohol ;  rub  a  small 


246  EXCELSIOR   COOK   BOOK 

portion  of  this  mixture  with  alcohol ;  then  rub  tho 
spots,  and  let  it  remain  until  dry ;  then  rub  with  a 
flannel  cloth. 

STAIETS    FROM    SILKS. 

Salts  of  ammonia  mixed  with  lime,  will  take  out 
stains  of  wine  from  silk.  It  is  also  good  to  renew  the 
color  if  there  are  any  sjDots. 

STAIWS   FROM   THE   HANDS. 

Mix  equal  proportions  of  oxalic  acid  and  cream  of  tar- 
tar, and  keep  in  a  covered  box ;  when  used,  dip  the 
fingers  in  warm  water,  and  rub  on  a  little  of  the  pow- 
der ;  when  the  stains  disappear,  wash  with  soap.  This 
is  poison,  and  should  be  kept  out  of  the  reach  of  child- 
ren. Lemon  juice,  or  any  acid  is  good  to  take  stains 
out. 

TO    TAKE    STAINS    FROM    BLACK  "WOOLEN    GAR- 
MENTS  OR   SILKS. 

Wet  the  stain  thoroughly  with  strong  hartshorn, 
and  if  the  color  is  not  restored,  repeat  again  next  day. 
Should  this  also  fail,  wet  with  black  ink,  two  success- 
ive days.  Any  dark  silk  can  be  done  the  same. 
Flowered  silk  may  be  cleaned  by  rubbing  crumbs  of 
bread  on,  and  then  brushing  them  off. 

TO   -WASH    A   BLACK   LACE   VAIL. 

Mix  beef's  gall  with  sufficient  hot  water  to  make  it 
as  warm  as  you  can  bear  your  hand  in.  Do  not  rub 
the  vail,  but  squeeze  it  through ;  then  rinse  in  two 
cold  waters,  the  last  adding  a  little  indigo,  and  dry  it. 
Pour  water  on  a  small  |)iece  of  glue,  put  the  vail  in  to 
stiffen  it,  squeeze  it  out  and  clap  it ;  lay  it  on  a  linen 
cloth,  and  make  perfectly  smooth,  then  iron  on  the 
wrong  side. 

HEAT  MARKS  FROM  MAHOGANY. 

Pour  lamp-oil  on  the  spots,  and  rub  with  a  soft  flan- 
nel cloth  ;  then  pour  on  alcohol,  and  rub  them  with  a 
clean  soft  cloth  until  dry.  Ink  may  be  taken  out  by 
putting  an  oxalic  acid;  after  letting  it  remain  a  few 


AND   housekeeper's   AID.  24V 

minutes,  rub  with  a  cloth  wet  in  warm  water.  Colored 
paint,  carpets,  or  mahogany  will  require  rubbing  with 
hartshorn  to  restore  the  original  color. 

TO  EXTRACT  PAINT  PROM  CLOTHING. 

Saturate  the  spots  with  spirits  of  turpentine,  let  it 
remain  a  few  hours  ;  then  rub  it  between  the  hands,  and 
wash  with  suds  and  rinse. 

STARCH. 

Starch  may  be  made  of  potatoes,  by  grating  them 
and  then  washing  the  pulp  in  several  waters  and 
straining  it  through  a  sieve,  then  allowing  it  to  settle 
until  morning ;  then  pour  off  the  water,  and  dry  the 
starch  on  plates.  Very  nice  starch  can  be  made  of 
corn  in  the  same  way.  The  white  corn  is  the  best. 
Poland  starch  is  most  used.  Clothes  that  are  not 
worn  should  never  be  put  away  in^  the  starch,  as  it 
will  rot  things  that  are  not  exposed  t*o  the  air. 

TO   MAKE    STARCH. 

Flour-starch  is  made  by  mixing  the  flour  smooth 
with  cold  water,  and  then  pour  on  boiling  water,  stir- 
ring all  the  time  ;  boil  five  or  six  minutes,  then  strain 
through  a  cloth  or  bag,  kept  for  the  purpose.  Poland 
starch  is  made  in  the  same  way  as  flour,  but  a  small 
piece  of  spermaceti  or  lard  will  give  a  glossy  appear- 
ance. The  best  way  is  to  dissolve  an  ounce  of  gum- 
arabic  in  water,  and  "bottle  it  up,  and  when  starch  is 
made,  add  a  spoonful,  and  it  will  make  linen  look 
almost  like  those  that  are  done  up  in  cities. 

RICE   PASTE. 

Mix  rice-flour  smooth  with  water  to  a  thick  paste ; 
then  pour  on  more  water  and  boil  until  it  is  thick  like 
starch,  stirring  all  the  time.  AYhen  cool,  it  is  nice  to 
paste  fine  paper  or  pasteboard  ornaments. 

FRENCH  POLISH. 

Take  a  quarter  of  an  ounce  of  gum-copal,  gum-ara- 
bic, and  one  ounce  of  shell-lac ;  bruise  them  well,  and 
put  into  a  pint  of  spirits  of  wine;  put  in  a   bottle 


248  EXCELSIOR  COOK  BOOK 

and  cork ;  then  shake  well,  and  put  in  a  warm  place. 
In  a  few  days  they  will  be  dissolved ;  then  strain 
through  a  piece  of  muslin,  and  keep  it  corked  for  use. 

TO    MAKE    HENS    LAY    IN    WINTEE. 

Keep  them  in  a  warm  place,  with  sand  to  roll  in, 
and  plenty  of  fresh  water.  They  should  have  fresh 
meat  occasionally,  when  they  can  not  procure  worms, 
and  a  change  of  food — buckwheat,  corn,  oats,  etc.  It 
is  well  to  give  them  a  hot  mess  every  other  day ;  such 
as  hot  potatoes,  turnips,  or  meal  scalded ;  add  Cayenne 
pepper  or  ginger.  All  kinds  of  vegetables  are  good 
chopped  raw,  such  as  cabbage,  carrots,  turnips  or  po- 
tatoes. A  little  lime  or  bones  burnt  and  pounded  fine, 
and  clam-shells,  are  good  to  form  the  shell.  A  box  of 
ashes  should  always  be  put  in  their  coop,  or  they  will 
become  filthy  with  lice.  This  will  prevent  it.  Glass 
eggs,  or  wooden  eggs  painted  white,  should  be  put  in 
the  nest  in  the  winter,  for  nest-eggs,  as  the  hens  will 
eat  the  eggs  if  left  in  the  nests.  When  the  chickens 
are  hatched,  the  hen  should  be  cooped  in  a  garden, 
and  allow  the  chickens  to  roam.  They  are  of  great 
service  in  a  garden.  Feed  them  on  Indian  meal,  or 
pieces  of  bread  soaked  in  water.  They  will  almost 
get  their  own  living  in  a  garden.  Give  them  plenty 
of  fresh  water,  and  buttermilk.  Chickens  will  never 
have  the  gapes  if  not  allowed  to  run  Avhere  there  is 
stagnant  water.  I  have  kept  fowls  over  twenty  years, 
and  have  never  lost  a  chicken  with  the  gapes.  It  is 
said  that  vinegar  that  has  stood  in  iron,  is  a  pre- 
ventive, by  putting  a  little  in  their  food  every  day. 
Some  say  it  is  caused  by  worms  in  the  throat,  and  that 
they  may  be  reached  and  taken  out  with  the  end  of  a 
feather.  No  poultry  should  be  kept  longer  than  three 
years.     They  are  best  for  laying  the  second  year. 

TO   POLISH   MAHOGANY   FUKNITUKE. 

Kub  it  with  cold-drawn  linseed  oil,  and  polish  with 
a  dry,  soft  cloth.  Do  this  once  a  week,  and  you  will 
have  a  fine  polish.  The  oil  fills  the  pores,  and  hardens 
when  exposed  to  the  air,  and  the  surface  becomes  much 
like  glass. 


AND   HOUSEKEEPER'S   AID.  249 

TO   CLEAN   PAINT. 

Put  a  little  saleratus  in  the  suds,  and  wash  with  a 
flannel  cloth,  then  rinse  and  wipe  with  a  linen  cloth. 

TO    CLEAN    PAPER    WALLS. 

Sweep  d  )^vn  all  the  dust,  and  then  rub  with  bread- 
crumbs, beginning  at  the  top  and  rub  down.  The  best 
way  is  to  take  a  piece  of  bread. 

TO  BEMOVE  PAINT  AND   PUTTY   PROM  -WINDCV^- 

GLASS. 

Rub  on  a  little  spirits  of  turpentine,  until  well  satu- 
rated, then  wash  off  and  rub  with  a  woolen  cloth,  or 
put  saleratus  in  hot  water,  to  make  a  strong  solution ; 
then  let  it  remain  until  nearly  dry ;  then  rub  with  a 
flannel  cloth. 

CARPETS. 

Carpets  should  be  shook  often  to  have  them  wear 
well,  as  the  dust  underneath  collects  and  wears  them 
out  very  fast.  Straw  put  under  a  car^^et  makes  it  wear 
longer,  and  it  will  not  require  shaking  so  often.  If 
there  is  any  danger  of  moth,  sprinkle  tobacco  on  be- 
fore putting  down  the  carpet.  Tea-grounds  sprinkled 
on  a  carpet  before  sweeping,  make  it  look  nice. 
Grated  raw  potatoes  will  answer,  but  the  tea-grounds 
should  always  be  saved  for  this  purpose.  If  there  are 
any  grease -spots,  rub  camphene  on  them.  Chalk, 
grated  and  rubbed  on,  with  a  brown  paper  over,  and 
then  place  a  warm  smoothing-iron  on.  When  the 
paper  is  soaked  with  grease,  apply  another  till  all  is 
extracted. 

TO    CLEAN    BEDS    AND    MATTRESSES. 

When  feather  beds  become  soiled,  shake  all  the 
feathers  down  into  one  end  of  the  tick,  and  wash;  then 
shake  the  feathers  back  again,  and  wash  the  other  end, 
in  soap-suds.  Take  care  to  rinse  well.  Hang  on  a 
line  to  dry.  Shake  well  two  or  three  times  a  day, 
bringing  in  at  night.  Pillows  may  be  washed  by  rub- 
bing them  with  a  soft  brush  dipped  in  warm  suds ; 
then  rinse  well,  and  lay  on  boards  to  dry,  shaking 
11* 


250  EXCELSIOR   COOK  BOOK 

well,  and  turning  over  occasionally.  Hair-mattresses 
that  have  become  hard  and  dirty,  should  be  ripped  ujj, 
and  the  ticks  washed  clean.  Pick  the  bunches  out  of 
the  hair  and  put  it  in  a  dry  place  for  a  number  of 
days ;  then  put  back  in  the  tick,  and  tack  it. 

TO    WASH    CARPETS. 

Shake  them  well,  and  then  tack  them  firmly  down, 
and  clean  with  a  flannel  cloth ;  add  one  quart  ox-gall  to 
three  quarts  of  soft  cold  water.  If  there  are  any 
grease-spots,  rub  some  of  the  gall  on  them,  and  then 
wash  clean  with  a  clean  cloth.  If  very  dirty,  it  may 
be  washed  with  a  broom  and  strong  soap-suds  j  then 
rinsed  well  and  hung  up  to  dry. 

CEMEIsTT    FOR    GLASS. 

Take  ten  ounces  of  isinglass,  and  dissolve  it  in  a 
wine-glass  of  gin,  before  the  fire.  It  should  be  warm- 
ed when  applied,  and  put  on  with  a  camel's  hair  brush ; 
the  pieces  joined  and  then  bound  together  with  strips 
of  cloth. 

^  CEMENT    FOR    CHINA. 

Tie  some  lime  powdered  very  fine,  and  sifted 
through  a  bit  of  muslin,  on  to  the  broken  part ;  wet 
first  with  the  white  of  an  egg^  and  then  join  together. 

CEMENT    TO    FASTEN   THE    HANDLES    OF    KNIVES 
AND   FORKS. 

Take  brickdust  and  resin ;  melt  together  in  a  pip- 
khi. 

TO    GILD    OR    SILVER    LEATHER. 
To  ornam.ent  leather,  powder  some  resin,  and  dust 
over  the  surface  of  the  leather ;  then  lay  on  the  leaf 
and  apply  hot  the  letters  or  impression  you  wish  to 
transfer ;  then  dust  oflT  the  loose  metal  with  a  cloth. 

A  CEMENT    FOR    EARTHENWARE 

"White  lead,  boiled  in  linseed  oil,  is  good  for  com- 
mon crockery  or  earthenware.  Apply  some  on  each 
broken  piece,  and  join  together.  Let  it  remain  till 
dry     It  is  a  good  plan  to  keep  this  prepared.     Boil- 


AND   housekeeper's   AID.  251 

ing  crockery  in  milk  will  cement  it.  As  soon  as  bro- 
ken, tie  together  and  put  into  cold  skim-milk  and  boil 
an  hour ;  then  take  from  tlie  fire  and  let  it  remain  till 
the  milk  becomes  cold,  when  it  can  be  taken  out,  and 
put  away  for  two  or  three  weeks  before  using. 

CEMENT    FOR    IRONWARE. 

Beat  the  whites  of  eggs  to  a  froth,  and  stir  lime  into 
them  till  thick  ;  then  add  iron  filings.  Fill  the  cracks 
with  this,  and  let  it  remain  a  number  of  weeks  without 
using  it.  Ashes  and  common  salt  made  into  a  paste 
is  good. 

TO    CLEAN    VIALS    OR    BOTTLES. 

Fill  a  large  pot  with  water,  and  immerse  the  vials 
in  it ;  put  in  a  shovelful  of  ashes,  and  boil  an  hour 
gradually;  then  take  from  the  fire,  and  when  partly 
cool,  take  one  by  one  and  wash  in  clean  suds,  and  rinse 
in  cold  water.  If  any  thing  is  left  in  that  will  not  come 
out,  put  in  a  little  shot  and  shake  around,  and  then 
rinse. 

TO  TEMPER  EARTHENWARE  OR  IRON. 
Before  using  earthenware,  put  it  into  cold  water 
and  heat  slowly  till  the  water  boils ;  then  take  from 
the  fire  and  let  it  remain  till  cold.  Iron  cooking  uten- 
sils should  be  heated  gradually  and  cooled  slowly  be- 
fore using.  New  flat-irons,  stoves,  or  any  kind  of 
iron,  should  be  treated  in  the  same  manner. 

CEMENT  FOR  BOTTLES  OR  CANS. 

Mix  together  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  sealing-wax, 
the  same  of  resin,  and  a  couple  of  ounces  of  beeswax. 
When  it  froths,  stir  with  a  tallow  candle.  As  soon  as 
it  melts,  use  it  by  covering  the  corks. 

TO  POLISH  SILVER,  BRASS  OR  BRITANNIA. 
Whiting  or  chalk  should  be  used  for  silverware. 
Wet  first  with  a  little  water,  and  rub  with  the  chalk ; 
then  take  a  dry,  fine  cloth  and  rub  dry.  If  stained, 
soak  in  soap-leys  for  two  hours ;  then  cover  with  chalk 
wet  with  vinegar,  and  let  it  dry  on ;  then  rub  ofi*,  and 
rub  o^er  with  dry  bran.     Rotten-stone  and  spirits  are 


252  EXCELSIOR   COOK  BOOK 

best  for  brass.  Britannia  ware  should  be  rubbed  with 
a  flannel  rag,  dipped  in  oil ;  then  washed  in  soap-suds 
and  wiped  dry.  Rub  with  a  dry  flannel  and  chalk  or 
whiting. 

TO    KEMOVE    BUST    FKOM    CUTLERY. 

Rub  on  a  little  sweet  oil  and  let  them  remain  a  few 
days  ;  then  rub  with  a  flannel  cloth  and  Bristol  brick. 
New  knives  and  forks  are  very  apt  to  rust,  and  great 
care  should  be  taken  to  have  them  wiped  dry  before 
putting  away,  and  if  not  used  constantly  they  should 
be  rubbed  with  sweet  oil,  and  wrapped  each  one  in 
brown  paper.  Ivory  handles  should  never  be  wet,  but 
wijDcd  with  a  wet  cloth,  or  the  ivory  will  turn  yellow. 

TO    KEEP    CIDER    SWEET. 

Put  a  gill  of  white  mustard  in  a  barrel  of  cider ;  or 
a  pint  of  clean  wheat  will  keep  it  sweet  for  some  time ; 
but  the  most  effectual  way  is  to  smoke  the  barrels  be- 
fore using  with  brimstone  ;  then  rinse  well  and  put  in 
your  cider.  It  will  not  taste  nor  smell  of  the  brim- 
stone. When  you  bottle  cider,  put  in  a  few  raisins  to 
make  it  brisk. 

TO    PRESERVE    PURS    AWD    FLAlSrNEIiS. 

Pack  in  a  tight  box,  with  camphor-gum  or  tobacco. 
A  tallow  candle  is  also  a  preventive.  Woolen  yarn,  to 
be  kept  any  time,  should  never  be  scoured,  and  the 
moths  will  never  touch  it.  If  moths  get  into  a  carpet, 
it  is  hard  getting  rid  of  them,  as  the  eggs  will  hatch 
out,  and  the  best  way  is  to  lay  a  wet  cloth  on  the  car- 
pet, and  iron  over  it.  The  heat  and  steam  will  de- 
stroy the  eggs  and  not  injure  the  carpet. 

TO    STAIN"    BEECH    THE    COLOR  OP   MAHOGANY. 

Take  a  pound  of  logwood,  and  boil  in  four  quarts  of 
water,  and  add  a  double  handful  of  walnut  peelings ; 
take  out  the  chips,  and  put  in  a  pint  of  good  vinegar, 
and  it  is  fit  for  use. 

TO    CLEAN"    MIRRORS    AND    GILT   FRAMES. 

Take  a  piece  of  sponge  and  wash  clean ;  then  dip 
in  alcohol  or  spi  its  of  wine,  and  rub  over  the  glass, 


^         AND   housekeeper's   AID.  253 

with  whiting  sifted  on ;  then  take  a  clean  cloth,  and 
rub  well;  then  polish  with  a  silk  handkerchief.  Be 
very  careful  not  to  touch  the  frame.  If  the  frames  are 
gilt,  rub  over  with  cotton  wool.  This  will  take  off 
the  dust  without  injuring  the  gilding.  If  the  frames 
are  varnished,  rub  with  spirits  of  wine. 
TO  STAIN"  HOKISr  TO  IMITATE  TORTOISE-SHELL. 
Take  an  equal  quantity  of  quicklime  and  red  lead  ; 
mix  with  strong  lye,  and  lay  on  the  horn  with  a  small 
brush  ;  when  dry  repeat  several  times. 

TO  PBEVENT  "WATER  SOAKING 
through  boots  and  shoes,  and  making  them  wear  as 
long  as  two  pair.  Take  one  pound  of  tallow,  half  a 
poimd  of  resin,  and  melt  together ;  warm  the  boots 
and  apply  until  they  will  take  no  more.  If  a  polish  is 
wanted,  let  them  dry,  and  then  dissolve  an  ounce  of 
beeswax,  a  tea-spoonful  of  lampblack,  and  an  ounce  of 
turpentine.    Rub  the  boots  over  with  this,  but  not  near 

the  fire. 

LIQUID  BLACKING. 

Take  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  ivory-black,  six  gills  of 
vinegar,  and  a  table-spoonful  of  sweet  oil,  and  two  of 
molasses.     Stir  well  together,  and  it  is  fit  for  use. 

INK  FOR   MARKING   LINEN  ^WITH   TYPE. 
Dissolve  one  part  of  asphaltum  in  four  parts  of  oil  of 
turpentine  ;   add  lamp-black  in  sufiicient^  quantity  to 
render  it  of  proper  consistency  to  print  with  type. 

INK  FOR  MARKING  LINEN. 
Dissolve  two  drachms  of  lunar  caustic,  half  an  ounce 
of  gum-arabic  in  a  gill  of  rain  water.  Wet  the  article 
to  be  marked  in  saleratus  water,  and  dry ;  then  pass  a 
hot  flat  over,  to  make  it  smooth  ;  then  mark,  and  pass 
a  hot  flat  over  again.  It  should  be  corked  tight  and 
kept  in  the  dark. 

ANOTHER. 

Take  four  drachms  of  lunar  caustic,  four  ounces  of 
water,  sixty  drops  of  nutgalls  made  strong  by  being 
pulverized  and  steeped  in  water. 


254  EXCELSIOR    COOK   BOOK 

FOR   MAKING   BLACK   INK. 

Take  four  ounces  of  nutgalls,  two  of  copperas,  one 
of  gum-arabic ;  put  the  galls  in  a  quart  of  water ;  soak 
eight  or  nine  days  where  it  will  be  warm,  shaking  it 
often ;  then  add  the  copperas  and  gum,  also  half  an 
ounce  of  alum  well  dissolved  in  warm  water.  It  will 
be  fit  for  use  in  a  few  days. 

TO   PRESERVE    GRASSES, 

Make  a  solution  of  alum  water,  a  piece  of  alum  the 
size  of  a  hen's  egg  to  a  quart  of  water.  Dip  the  grasses 
in,  and  then  sprinkle  with  flour ;  they  look  quite  pretty 
in  the  winter  season,  put  in  a  vase  with  a  few  ever- 
lastings. Fruit  and  flowers  may  be  preserved  by  dip- 
ping them  into  a  solution  of  gum-arabic  two  or  three 
times,  allowing  them  to  dry  each  time.  They  must  be 
entirely  immersed  or  they  will  not  keep  ;  tie  a  string 
to  them  and  let  into  the  liquid. 

BLUE   INK. 

Dissolve  a  little  indigo  in  oil  of  vitriol ;  dissolve  a 
little  gum-arabic  in  water,  and  add  to  it. 

RED   INK. 

Boil  an  ounce  of  Brazil  wood  in  half  a  pint  of  water 
for  a  quarter  of  an  hour ;  add  an  ounce  of  alum  and 
three  drachms  of  gu.m-arabic. 

Scarlet  ink  is  made  by  dissolving  vermilion  in  a  so- 
lution of  gum-arabic.  Green  ink  may  be  made  by  mix- 
ing two  ounces  of  verdigris,  one  ounce  of  cream  of  tar- 
tar, half  a  pint  of  water ;  boil  until  reduced  one  half; 
then  filter. 

TO   MAKE   PLASTER   OP   PARIS   FIGURES   LOOK 
LIKE    ALABASTER. 

Dip  the  figures  in  a  strong  solution  of  alum  water 

TO   KEEP    A^WAY    HOUSEHOLD    VERMIN. 

Sage  put  around  where  ants  frequent  is  a  preventive. 
It  is  said  that  the  rattles  of  a  rattlesnake  Avill  keep  them 
away.  Hellebore  rubbed  with  molasses,  and  put  in 
places  wh-ore  cockroaches  frequent  will  soon  destroy 


AND   housekeeper's   AID.  255 

them.  Flies  can  be  thinned  by  putting  strong  soap-suds 
in  a  tumbler,  and  then  put  a  piece  of  board  on  top  with 
a  hole  in  the  middle,  and  a  little  molasses  on  the  under 
side.  The  molasses  will  draw  the  flies,  and  they  will 
fall  into  the  water. 

To  KEEP  AWAY  mosquitocs,  attach  a  piece  of  flannel 
to  the  top  of  the  bedstead,  wet  with  camphorated 
spirits,  and  they  will  leave  the  room. 

Foe  bed-bugs,  get  a  sixpence  worth  of  corrosive  sub- 
limate ;  put  it  in  a  bottle,  and  add  a  gill  of  whisky ; 
shake  it  up  well,  and  then  take  a  feather  and  put  it 
around  the  bedstead  twice  a  year,  and  you  will  never 
be  troubled  with  bugs.  Red  peppers  boiled  in  water 
and  the  bedstead  washed  in  the  water  is  good,  but  I 
have  never  tried  any  thing  so  efiectual  as  the  corrosive 
sublimate  ;  the  bottle  should  be  marked  poison.  Spear- 
mint put  around  places  where  mice  infest  will  drive 
them  away,  as  they  have  a  great  aversion  to  it. 

GKAFTING. 

Melt  beeswax  and  tallow  together,  stirring  in  a  little 
chalk,  if  handy.  While  hot,  dip  in  some  strips  of  rags, 
and  put  on  so  as  to  prevent  the  escape  of  the  sap  or  the 
introduction  of  water. 

TO   MAKE    COURT-PLASTEK. 

Suspend  black  silk  or  white  on  a  frame ;  then  dis- 
solve isinglass  and  apply  with  a  brush  ;  let  it  dry,  and 
then  repeat  it ;  then  cover  with  a  strong  tincture  of 
balsum  of  Peru.  This  is  the  real  English  court-plaster. 
The  more  common  is  covered  with  the  white  of  an  egg. 

TO   MAKE   BLACKING. 

One  pound  of  ivory-black,  well  pulverized,  half  a 
pound  of  loaf-sugar,  half  an  ounce  of  oil  of  vitriol,  six 
ounces  of  sweet  oil,  one  gallon  of  vinegar ;  stir  it  weU^ 
and  it  produces  a  fine  polish. 

OIL   OF   FLO^WERS. 

Take  thin  pieces  of  cotton  Avadding  and  dip  in  pure 
Florence  oil  or  sweet  oil,  and  lay  in  a  china  dish  ;  cover 
it  thick  with  rose-leaves,  or  any  flowers  from  which 


256  EXCELSIOR  COOK  BOOK 

you  wish  to  get  perfume.  Lay  on  another  layer  steeped 
in  oil,  and  continue  this  until  full ;  cover  it  closely,  and 
set  in  the  sun  a  week.  Take  out  the  leaves  and  squeeze 
the  oil  in  vials. 

A   DELICATE   CEMENT   FOB   GLASS   OK   CHINA. 

One  ounce  of  mastic  put  in  as  much  spirits  of  wine 
as  will  dissolve  it ;  soak  an  ounce  of  isinglass  in  water 
until  soft ;  then  dissolve  in  rum  or  alcohol  till  it  forms 
a  glue ;  add  a  quarter  of  an  ounce  of  gum  ammonia, 
well  rubbed  and  mixed.  Put  the  two  mixtures  together 
over  a  gentle  heat  until  united  ;  then  keep  in  a  vial  well 
corked.  When  used,  place  in  a  kettle  of  warm  water  ; 
warm  the  articles  to  be  mended;  apply  the  cement 
and  put  tight  together  for  several  hours,  and  it  will  be 
scarcely  perceptible. 

•WASHING  KECIPE. 

Mix  a  gill  of  alcohol  with  a  gallon  of  soft  soap  ;  mix 
ivell,  and  apply  the  soap  in  the  usual  way,  letting  them 
remain  several  hours  in  the  suds ;  then  wash  in  the 
usual  way  and  boil ;  they  will  require  very  little  rub- 


bing. 


ANOTHER. 


Take  four  ounces  of  borax  ;  pour  four  quarts  of  boil- 
ing water  on,  and  when  dissolved,  add  three  pints  of 
soft  soap.     Use  as  above. 


ANOTHER. 


One  ounce  of  borax,  eight  quarts  of  water,  one  pint 
of  soap  ;  boil  all  together  twenty  minutes ;  when  partly 
cool,  soak  the  clothes  over  night  in  some  of  it.  Wash 
the  next  morning  ;  boil  and  rinse. 


ANOTHER. 


Pour  two  quarts  of  boiling  water  on  half  a  pound  of 
soda ;  then  take  half  a  pound  of  hard  soap  cut  fine ;  put 
on  the  fire  with  two  quarts  of  cold  water ;  when  dis- 
solved, add  the  soda ;  mix  well,  and  let  it  stand  till 
cold.  Soak  your  clothes,  rubbing  the  seams  and  dir- 
tiest parts  some  ;  let  them  remain  until  morning  ;  then 


AND   housekeeper's   AID.  257 

wring  them  out,  or  boil  in  the  same  water  if  you  like, 
but  add  a  pint  of  the  soda  liquid,  and  boil  twenty  min- 
utes ;  then  rinse,  and  the  clothes  will  look  well.  A  little 
spirits  of  turpentine  put  into  clothes  while  boiling  makes 
them  look  clear. 

TKANSPAKENT  JAP  AW  VARNISH. 

Eight  ounces  of  oil  of  turpentine,  six  ounces  of  oil  of 
lavender,  one  drachm  camphor,  two  ounces  bruised 
copal ;  dissolve  the  Avhole.     To  be  used  for  tin- ware. 

TO   REMOVE   MILDE-W. 

Pour  a  quart  of  boiling  water  on  two  ounces  of  chlo- 
ride of  lime  ;  then  add  three  quarts  of  cold  water,  and 
soak  the  linen  in  it  twelve  hours.  This  is  preferable  to 
any  other  recipe  that  I  have  seen. 

TO   CliEAN  AVHITE   FEATHERS. 

Wash  them  in  soft  water  with  white  soap,  and  blue  ; 
rub  them  through  white  paper,  and  beat  them  on  paper ; 
then  shake  them  before  the  fire ;  dry  them  in  the  air, 
and  curl  them. 

TO    CURL   FEATHERS. 

Heat  them  gently  before  the  fire ;  then  with  the  back 
of  a  knife  applied  to  the  feather  they  will  curl  quickly. 

TO   CLEAN"   KID    GLOVES. 

Take  a  little  camphene  and  a  small  piece  of  camphor 
and  rub  on  with  a  piece  of  sponge,  having  the  glove  on 
the  hand ;  wet  it  as  little  as  possible ;  then  lay  on  a 
clean  towel,  and  wipe  with  a  dry  cloth ;  blow  in  the 
fingers,  and  hang  up  to  dry,  or  keep  on  the  hands  till 
dry.  Sometimes  a  crust  of  stale  bread  will  clean,  if 
not  too  dirty.  If  greasy,  a  little  magnesia  is  good.  A 
piece  of  India  rubber  is  good  to  keep  them  clean. 

TO   BLEACH  WOOL,  SILK,  AND   STRAW. 

Take  a  barrel  and  put  a  small  kettle  or  basin  in,  with 
pounded  brimstone  in  it ;  take  live  coals  and  put  in,  or 
it  is  best  to  put  the  coals  in  first,  then  the  brimstone  on 
top.  Hang  the  straw  on  a  stick  and  put  across  the 
barrel,  and  cover  tight.     Flannels  that  you  wish  to 


258  EXCELSIOR   COOK  BOOK 

bleach,  put  on  top ;  coutiime  this  till  they  are  bleached 
white  ;  let  them  lie  loose.  The  straw  should  be  soaked 
in  pearlash  water  until  yellow  before  putting  in.  Brim- 
stone will  take  stains  out  of  cotton  or  linen  goods  by 
holding  them  over. 

TO   DYE   GLOVES. 

Put  them  on  the  hands  and  take  a  soft  brush ;  dip 
into  any  dye  you  wish  to  color  them,  wetting  them  as 
little  as  possible.  For  a  York  tan,  steep  saffron  several 
hours  in  hot  water,  and  wet  with  either  a  soft  brush  or 
sj)onge. 

KNIVES   AWD   FOKKS. 

Clean  ebony  handles  with  a  soft  cloth  dij^ped  in  sweet 
oil ;  after  laying  awhile,  wif^e  with  a  clean  towel. 
Ivory  handles  should  be  washed  with  a  flannel,  soaped, 
using  warm  water  ;  then  wipe  dry  with  a  towel ;  soak 
occasionally  in  alum  water  to  preserve  their  whiteness ; 
the  water  must  be  cold ;  let  them  lie  an  hour  in  it ; 
then  take  them  out  and  brush  them.  Wet  a  towel  in 
cold  water,  squeeze  out,  and  wrap  around  the  handles, 
leaving  them  in  to  dry  gradually ;  if  dried  too  fast  out 
of  the  alum  water,  they  will  be  injured.  This  will  make 
them  very  white. 

A    CHEAP   PAINT. 

Take  one  bushel  of  unslacked  lime  and  slack  with 
cold  water ;  add  twenty  pounds  of  Spanish  whiting, 
seventeen  pounds  of  salt,  and  twelve  pounds  of  sugar  ; 
strain  through  a  wire  sieve,  and  it  will  be  fit  for  use 
after  reducing  with  cold  water.  This  is  for  outside 
buildmgs.  Put  two  coats  on  wood  and  three  on  brick ; 
let  each  coat  dry  before  putting  on  another.  For  paint- 
ing inside,  use  only  five  pounds  of  salt  and  three  of 
sugar.  Make  it  any  color  you  please  ;  for  green,  use 
chrome  green ;  for  lead  and  slate,  use  lampblack ;  for 
yellow,  ochre  and  chrome  yellow. 

TO    MAKE    A   SIMPLE   'WHITE   PAINT. 

Skim-niilk,  two  quarts,  eight  ounces  of  unslacked 
lime,  six  ounces  of  oil,  white  Burgundy  pitch  two 
ounces,  Spanish  white  three  pounds ;  the  lime  to  be 


AND   HOUSEKEEPER'S   AID.  259 

slacked  in  water  exposed  to  the  air  ;  mix  in  about  one 
fourth  of  the  milk ;  the  oil,  in  which  the  pitch  is  to  be 
previously  dissolved,  must  be  added  a  little  at^  tmie ; 
then  the  rest  of  the  milk,  and  afterward  the  Spanish 
white.  This  quantity  will  cover  twenty  yards,  two 
coats,  and  the  expense  will  not  be  more  than  tenpence. 

FOR   SCOURING   BOARDS. 

Use  three  parts  of  sand  and  one  of  lime  ;  no  soap  is 
required. 

WHITEWASH     OF     THE     PRESIDENT'S     HOUSE 
IMPROVED. 

Take  half  a  bushel  of  unslacked  lime  and  slack  it 
with  boiling  water  ;  cover  it  tight ;  stram  it  and  add 
a  peck  of  salt  dissolved  in  warm  water  ;  three  pounds 
of  o-round  rice  boiled  to  a  thin  paste ;  put  m  boiling 
hot  half  a  pound  of  Spanish  whiting,  and  a  pound  ol 
clear  glue,  dissolved  in  warm  water  ;  mix,  and  let  it 
stand  several  days  ;  then  put  it  in  a  kettle  and  heat  it 
hot,  and  put  on  with  a  brush. 

A  SIMPLE  WHITEWASH. 
Take  unslacked  lime  and  slack  by  pouring  on  boiling 
water ;  cover  tight,  and  when  cool  enough,  put  on  with 
a  brush.  A  handful  of  salt  will  make  it  look  nice,  but 
it  is  more  hable  to  scale  off.  A  little  skim-milk  is  good 
to  thin  it  with.  If  your  walls  are  very  smoky,  i)ut  m 
a  little  ashes  for  the  first  coat.  A  little  blueing  m  the 
second  coat  looks  well. 

TO   SEPARATE   BEESWAX   FROM   THE    COMB. 
Put  it  in  a  pan  with  holes  in  the  bottom,  and  set  it 
in  the  oven  or  a  grate ;  put  another  pan  under,  half-lull 
of  water ;  the  wax  will  melt  and  drop  in  the  water, 
when  it  can  be  taken  out. 

ANOTHER. 

Tie  it  in  a  bag  and  put  it  in  a  kettle  of  water,  with  a 
weight  on  top.  The  wax  will  rise  to  the  top,  when  it 
can  be  taken  off. 


260  EXCELSIOR  COOK  BOOK 

POISONS. 

Every  person  should  endeavor  to  inform  themselves 
of  the  nature  and  antidotes  of  poison.  It  is  generally 
so  sudden  that  a  few  hours'  waiting  for  medical  aid 
might  prove  fatal,  as  it  will  admit  of  no  delay.  The 
first  thing  is  to  find  out  what  has  been  taken  :  the  next 
is  to  use  remedies,  and  if  one  fails,  try  others. 

ANTIDOTE   FOR   ACIDS. 

Acids  cause  great  heat  and  a  burning  sensation  in 
the  mouth  and  stomach,  an  inclination  to  vomit,  hic- 
cough, a  burning  thirst,  great  pain  in  the  bowels,  and 
soreness.  Give  an  ounce  of  magnesia  in  a  pint  of  water, 
a  wine-glassful  every  two  minutes.  Soda  or  saleratus, 
dissolved  in  plenty  of  water,  is  also  good,  but  the  mag- 
nesia is  better.  Flax-seed  tea,  rice  water,  or  water 
alone  is  good.  An  ounce  of  soap  dissolved  in  a  pint 
of  water,  and  given,  a  wine-glassful  every  two  minutes, 
is  good.  No  nourishment  should  be  taken  but  sweet- 
ened rice-water  for  several  days. 

ALKALIES. 

They  are  the  reverse  of  acids,  and  acids  are  given  as 
a  remedy ;  two  table-spoonfuls  of  vinegar  or  lemon-juice 
in  water ;  then  drink  large  quantities  of  soap  and  water. 

ARSENIC. 

Symptoms  :  vomiting  and  convulsions.  Give  ipecac 
or  something  to  assist  vomiting — large  doses  of  cold 
water  and  sugar.  Hydrated  peroxide  of  iron,  charcoal, 
magnesia,  chalk,  lime-water,  and  whites  of  eggs  are 
also  good. 

TARTAR   EMETIC. 

Peruvian  bark  or  white  oak. 

OPIUM    OR    LAUDANUM. 

Dash  cold  water  on  the  head ;  give  strong  tea  or 
coffee,  and  acid  drinks  ;  give  a  dose  of  Cayenne  pepper 
or  mustard  and  water  alone,  and  keep  the  patient  in 
motion.  Sometimes  a  table-spoonful  of  vin«^o"ar  will 
relieve. 


AND   housekeeper's   AID.  261 

PKUSSIC   ACID. 

Hot  brandy  and  water,  hartshorn,  soda,  or  turpen- 
tine. It  is  said  that  immersing  the  patient  in  cold 
water  will  neutralize  this  poison. 

MUSHROOMS. 

Mix  three  grains  of  tartar  emetic,  twenty-five  of 
ipecac,  and  an  ounce  of  salts  dissolved  in  a  glass  of 
water.  Give  by  degrees  till  it  vomits  the  patient ;  then 
give  vinegar  and  water. 

SALTPETRE. 

Give  emetics  and  plenty  of  rice-water,  flax-seed  tea, 
milk  and  water. 

CORROSIVE   SUBLIMATE. 

Give  whites  of  eggs  mixed  with  water,  or  soap  and 
water  freely. 

SNAKE   BITES,   OR   MAD   DOG. 

Apply  a  ligature  above  the  part  bitten  ;  then  apply 
a  cupping-glass,  or  it  is  better  to  cut  out  the  bite,  and 
then  burn  with  caustic ;  put  in  a  piece  of  cotton  satu- 
rated with  it.  As  soon  as  it  is  cut  take  off  the  ligature. 
A  decoction  of  Spanish  flies  and  turpentine  should  be 
applied  to  the  skin  around  the  wound  to  excite  inflam- 
mation and  suppuration.  Keep  up  the  discharge  of 
matter  some  time.  Charcoal  made  into  a  paste  with 
hog's  lard  is  a  good  antidote  for  the  bite  of  snakes  ;  so 
is  the  bark  of  yellow  poplar  ;  bruise  it ;  then  make  a 
poultice  of  it  and  apply  to  the  wound ;  bathe  all  around 
the  part  that  is  bitten  with  a  strong  decoction  of  the 
same,  and  drink  a  pint  every  hour. 

ALCOHOL. 

Give  an  emetic  and  dash  cold  water  on  the  head ; 
give  ammonia. 

VERDIGRIS. 

Give  white  of  egg  and  plenty  of  water. 

CHARCOAL. 

Many  persons  are  killed  by  sleeping  in  apartments 
where  coal  is  burnt,  on  account  of  the  ciarbonio  gas. 


262  EXCELSIOR  COOK   BOOK 

Remedy :  remove  the  patient  to  the  open  air ;  dash 
cold  water  on  the  head  and  body ;  stimulate  the  lungs 
and  nostrils  by  hartshorn ;  at  the  same  time  rub  the 
chest  briskly. 

NITKATE    OF   SILVEB. 

Give  a  strong  solution  of  common  salt,  and  then 
emetics. 

TOBACCO. 

Give  an  emetic ;  then  strong  dose  of  tea. 

LEAD. 

Give  Epsom  salts  or  some  carthartic ;  if  the  symp- 
toms continue,  do  as  directed  for  acid.  In  almost  all 
cases  of  poison,  emetics  should  be  administered  the  first, 
and  whatever  you  have  on  hand  ;  ground  mustard  stir- 
red up  in  warm  water,  may  be  given  every  few  minutes, 
until  the  patient  vomits  freely. 

VABNISH   TO   MAKE   "WOOD   LOOK  LIKE   IVOBY. 

Take  half  an  ounce  of  isinglass  ;  boil  gently  in  half  a 
pint  of  water ;  when  dissolved,  strain  it  and  add  flake 
powder  till  it  becomes  white  as  cream  ;  give  the  wood 
three  or  four  coats  of  this,  letting  each  coat  dry  before 
putting  the  other  on ;  then  smooth  it  with  a  damp  rag. 
If  when  mixed  it  looks  too  white,  add  a  few  grains  of 
carmine  white  or  chrome  yellow. 

CEMENT   FOB   GLASS   OB  AT^OOD. 

Dissolve  common  glue,  and  add  to  it  finely-sifted 
wood  ashes  till  quite  thick  ;  then  apply  while  hot,  and 
press  the  sides  firmly  together.  This  is  said  to  be  very 
adhesive  to  wood. 

CEMENT   FOE   GLASS. 

Boil  one  ounce  of  isinglass  in  two  mne-glassfuls  of 
spirits  of  wine. 

FOB  BOSE-BUSHES. 

Take  the  soot  from  the  chimney,  and  pour  on  water ; 
let  it  remain  until  the  strength  is  entirely  out ;  then 
sprinkle  your  bushes  with  the  liquor,  and  it  will  prevent 
the  worm  from  injuring  them.     As  soon  as  the  worm 


'"    —  263 


AND   HOUSEKEEPER  S    AID. 

makes  its  appearance,  the  leaves  should  be  carefully  ex- 
amined, and  every  worm  destroyed,  or  they  will  m  a 
short  time  destroy  the  bush. 

TO  MAKE  CABBAGES  OB  ASPABAGUS  GROW. 

Sprinkle  salt  over  cabbage  occasionally  while  head- 
ing, and  the  heads  will  be  firmer  and  much  larger.  _  It 
is  also  a  great  improvement  to  asparagus.  Old  brme 
which  has  been  used  for  other  purposes  is  good. 

CEMENT   FOR  WOOD. 
Take  beeswax  and  resin,  equal  quantities  ;  naelt  them 
and  add  powdered  chalk,  imtil  sufficiently  thick.     A 
strong  solution  of  glue  and  whiting  makes  a  good  ce- 
ment for  ivory.  ^  ^ 
TO    COLOR   GOLD. 

Make  a  solution  of  two  ounces  of  saltpetre,  two  of 
alum,  and  one  of  sal-ammoniac,  and  dip  the  article  m  to 
be  colored. 

TO   WASH   DELAINES   OR  CALICOES   THAT   FADE. 

Pour  boiling  water  on  wheat  bran,  and  let  it  remain 
until  nearly  cold  ;  then  strain,  and  it  is  ready  for  use. 
You  will  require  no  soap.  It  will  make  delames  look 
like  new. 

SUBSTITUTE   FOR   COURT-PLASTER. 

Clean  ho^s'  feet  as  for  cooking ;  boil  to  a  jelly ;  then 
spread  on  silk,  and  it  will  be  equal  to  any  adhesive 
plaster  used. , 

TO  PREVENT  INSECTS  FROM  DESTROYING  ROSE- 
BUSHES. 

Take  one  peck  of  soot,  one  quart  of  unslacked  lime, 
three  gallons  of  water,  and  let  it  remain  twenty-fom- 
hours  ;  when  the  soot  rises  to  the  surface,  skim  it  ott. 
Use  a  syringe  for  applying  the  water. 

MAKING    SOAP. 

Take  a  barrel  without  a  bottom ;  set  it  on  a  large 

fiat  stone   or  plank,  with  a  channel  cut  for  the  lye  to 

run      Or,  what  is  still  better,  have  a  pme  tub  made 

at  the  cooper's,  larger  at  the  top  than  at  the  bottom. 


264  EXCELSIOR   COOK  BOOK 

Have  a  large  hole  bored  about  two  inches  from  the 
bottom,  with  a  plug  to  fit  in.  Put  in  the  bottom  straw, 
then  a  peck  of  lime,  and  fill  up  with  good  wood-ashes. 
(Any  hard  green  wood  makes  good  ashes.)  If  you 
have  a  tub  made,  it  will  last  many  years,  and  is  much 
more  convenient  than  a  barrel.  If  the  ashes  are  wet 
while  packing  in  the  tub,  it  will  get  to  running  much 
sooner.  Make  a  hole  in  the  middle  of  the  tub  and 
pour  on  "w^ater.  Hot  water  will  get  the  strength  out 
sooner  than  cold.  Five  bushels  of  good  ashes  will 
make  a  barrel  of  soap.  When  they  have  been  well 
soaked,  take  out  the  plug  and  the  lye  will  run  off  clear ; 
if  not,  pour  back  on  the  leach  until  it  does.  It  must 
bear  up  an  egg  plump,  or  it  will  not  make  soap.  Use 
the  first  to  eat  up  the  grease ;  the  weaker  will  answer 
to  fill  up. 

Put  all  your  grease  in  a  large  iron  kettle,  and  make  a 
slow  fire  under  it ;  stir  with  a  stick  constantly,  until  it 
IS  warmed  through ;  then  pour  in  your  strongest  lye  ; 
a  pailful  first,  and  stir  well.  Watch  it  carefully  or  it 
will  boil  over ;  if  it  does,  add  more  lye,  and  continue 
this  until  the  grease  is  entirely  eaten  up.  Strain  it  into 
a  harrel  while  hot,  and  fill  up  as  fast  as  you  draw  off 
jonv  lye,  and  you  will  have  good  soap.  Should  your 
ly^  be  too  strong  to  make  it  come  soap,  add  a  pail  of 
water.  Another  way  is  to  cleanse  all  your  grease  and 
put  it  in  a  barrel  and  pour  on  your  lye ;  in  a  few  weeks 
you  will  have  nice  white  soap.  Another  method  is  to 
have  half  a  barrel  of  lye,  and  put  in-  your  grease 
through  the  year,  and  at  the  end  you  will  have  a  bar- 
rel of  soap  without  any  trouble. 

To  cleanse  grease,  put  in  a  little  strong  lye,  and  boil 
it  thoroughly ;  then  fill  up  with  cold  water  and  the 
grease  will  float ;  then  skim  off. 

POTASH    SOAP. 

Take  twenty-five  pounds  of  grease  melted,  eighteen 
pounds  of  potash  dissolved  in  four  pails  of  water ;  boil 
till  dissolved ;  put  the  grease  and  two  pails  of  hot  lye 
in  a  barrel,  the  next  day  two  more,  and  the  next  two 
more;  then  fill  up  the  barrel — a  pailful  of  hot  wat^r 


AND   housekeeper's    AID.  265 

eac^  day — stirring  it  well,  and  it  will  be  good  soap. 
The  sediment  of  the  potash  is  not  good. 

HAKD    SOAP. 

Put  to  a  pail  of  nice  soft  soap,  one  pint  of  salt ;  boil 
It,  and  then  take  it  off  and  stand  until  cold  ;  when  hard, 
lake  from  the  lye  and  heat  slowly.  If  you  wish  to 
have  it  yellow,  add  palm-oil,  and  pour  in  wooden  ves- 
sels. When  cold,  separate  it  again  from  the  lye,  and 
cut  in  bars.     Let  them  stand  in  the  sun  to  dry. 

ANOTHER     METHOD. 

Take  sixteen  pounds  of  soft  soap,  boil  two  hours  with 
twelve  pounds  of  salt,  and  it  will  make  ten  pounds  of 
hard  soap.  When  melted  over  as  the  above  recipe, 
add  a  little  resin.  Scent  it  with  fragrant  oil  if  you 
like. 

BAYBERKY    AND    MYRTLE    SOAP. 

Dissolve  two  pounds  and  a  quarter  of  white  potash 
in  five  quarts  of  water.  Boil  over  a  slow  fire  ten 
pounds  of  bayberry,  tallow  or  myrtle  wax,  with  it; 
then  add  a  tea-cup  of  cold  water,  and  boil  ten  minutes ; 
scent  with  any  fragrant  oil,  and  turn  in  moulds  to  dry. 
Let  it  remain  a  week  or  more ;  then  remove  it.  This 
is  good  for  chapped  hands ;  also  for  shaving. 

CASTILE    SOAP 

Is  made  by  boiling  common  soft  soap  three  hours  and 

a  half  in  lamp-oil. 

"WINDSOR    SOAP. 

Slice  the  best  white  soap  and  melt  it  over  a  slow 
fire ;  when  melted  take  off,  and  when  lukewarm  add 
oil  of  caraway,  or  any  other  fragrant  oil.  Turn  into 
moulds  and  let  it  remain  in  a  dry  place  a  week. 

TRANSPARENT    SOAP. 

Take  equal  parts  tallow  soap,  made  perfectly  dry, 
and  spirits  of  wine  ;  put  into  a  copper  still,  and  plunge 
into  a  water-bath  furnished  with  its  capital  and  refrig' 
eratory.  The  heat  applied  to  effect  the  solution, 
should  be  as  slight  as  possible,  to  avoid  evaporating  too 
much  of  the  alcohol.  The  solution  being  effected,  it 
12 


260  BXCELSIOR  COOK  BOOK 

must  settle,  and  after  a  few  hours  the  clear  liquid  is 
drawn  off  into  tin  frames,  into  forms  desired  for  the 
cakes  of  soap.  It  will  not  be  transparent  until  several 
weeks'  exposure  to  dry  air.  It  is  colored  with  strong 
alcoholic  salution  of  ochre  for  the  rose  tint,  and  tur- 
meric for  the  yellow. 

NICE    SHAVING    SOAP. 

Take  one  pound  of  old  Windsor  soap,  a  quarter  of  a 
pound  of  Castile  soap,  a  gill  of  lavender-water,  a  gill 
of  cologne,  and  a  very  little  alcohol.  Boil  until  thor- 
oughly mixed. 

TO    CLEAN    SILK. 

Take  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  soft  soap,  a  tea-spoon- 
ful of  brandy,  and  a  pint  of  gin ;  with  a  sponge  wash 
each  side ;  then  wash  in  two  or  three  waters,  and  iron 
on  the  wrong  side. 

^SVASH-BALLS. 

Take  three  quarters  of  a  pound  of  Castile  soap,  cut 
thin,  two  ounces  of  alcohol,  one  ounce  of  borax,  half 
a  pound  of  Indian  meal ;  mix  and  dissolve  by  gentle 
heat ;  add  any  perfume  you  like,  and  make  into  balls. 
This  is  excellent  for  the  skin. 

DBESSING    SKINS    ^VITH    THE    FTTR    ON. 

As  soon  as  the  skin  comes  from  the  animal,  stretch 
it  on  a  board,  flesh  side  out ;  then  apply  an  equal  mix- 
ture of  salt  and  alum,  pulverized  together.  Let  them 
remain  some  time ;  then  wash  in  warm  soapsuds  ;  dry 
moderately ;  rub  soft  with  the  hands. 

HONEY    SOAP. 

Take  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  honey,  a  quarter  of  a 
pound  of  the  otto  of  citronella,  and  twenty-five  pounds 
of  melted  bar  soap.  It  should  be  put  in  an  iron  ves- 
sel, and  set  into  another  of  hot  water,  to  be  melted. 
This  is  very  nice  for  the  skin. 

ALMOND    SOAP. 

Take  a  quai'ter  of  a  pound  of  the  otto  of  almonds,  and 
twenty-five  pounds  of  melted  bar  soap.  A  very  small 
quantity  of  water  should  be  added  while  melting  ;  stir 


AXD  HOUSEKEEPER'S   AID.  267 

with  a  stick  until  it  becomes  smooth ;  then  it  may  be 
perfumed  or  colored;  then  pour  into  bars,  cut  in 
squares  and  stamped.  Vermilion  dyes  soap  pink,  and 
smalt  a  blue  color. 

KOSEMARY    SOAP. 

Take  one  and  a  half  pounds  of  the  essential  oil  of 
rosemary,  and  sixty  pounds  of  melted  soap  ;  proceed 
as  for  almond  soap. 

HARD    SOAP.    NO.    2. 

Take  three  fourths  of  a  pound  of  fresh  slacked  lime, 
one  gallon  of  water ;  dissolve  one  pound  of  sal-soda  m 
another  s^allon  of  water,  and  boil  all  together  fifteen 
minutes  f  then  let  it  settle.  A  white  precipitate  of 
chalk  will  fall  at  the  bottom  of  the  vessel,  and  the  clear 
liquid  will  be  a  caustic  lye ;  pour  this  off,  and  boil  your 
grease  till  it  becomes  soap,  then  pour  into  moulds,  and 
when  cold  it  will  be  hard  soap.  The  secret  of  makmg 
soap  is  to  have  an  alkaline  lye  of  sufficient^  strength, 
and  continue  boiling  until  the  chemical  union  of  the 
grease  and  alkali  is  effected. 

Resin  is  used  for  common  hard  soaps,  as  it  unites 
with  alkalies  and  tends  to  make  soap  harder  than 
grease  alone.  White  soap  should  be  made  of  tallow. 
Any  family  may  prepare  their  own  fancy  soap  by 
melting  good  bar  soap  in  a  tin  vessel,  placed  in  a  ket- 
tle of  water,  and  adding  any  of  the  essential  oils,  at 
the  rate  of  one  ounce  of  oil  to  five  pounds  of  soap. 
Whenever  the  oil  is  mixed  with  the  melted  soap,  it 
must  be  cooled  quickly  or  the  perfume  will  evaporate. 
Otto  of  roses,  musk,  lavender,  bergamot,  or  almost  any 
kind,  may  be  used. 

FOR   DYEING. 

Light  colors  should  be  colored  in  brass  or  tin ;  dark 
coloi?  in  iron.  Materials  should  be  clean  and  free  from 
jrrease.  Wet  them  so  that  they  will  not  spot,  and 
rinse  well,  that  they  may  be  free  from  suds. 

COCHINEAL    TO    COLOR    ^WOOLEN    OR    SILK. 

Pound  two  ounces  of  cochineal  fine,  and  pour  on 
cold  water  sufficient  to  wet  two  pounds  of  cloth,  (for 


268  EXCELSIOR   COOK   BOOK 

it  will  color  that  quantity ;)  let  it  boil  up  in  brass  or  tin ; 
then  add  four  ounces  of  muriate  of  tin,  one  of  cream  ot 
tartar ;  wet  your  clothes  in  warm  water,  and  put  in  ; 
stir  well  and  take  out,  and  dry  in  the  shade,  and  you 
will  have  a  beautiful  color. 

TO    COLOR    YELLOW    ON    COTTON. 

For  six  pounds  of  cotton  goods,  use  nine  ounces  of 
sugar  of  lead,  six  of  bichromate  of  potash ;  wet  the 
goods  thoroughly  in  cold  water,  dissolve  the  potash  in 
a  tin  vessel  with  four  quarts  of  cold  water,  the  sugar 
of  lead  in  as  much,  but  keep  them  separate.  Dip  the 
goods  into  the  sugar  of  lead,  and  wring  out  then  in  the 
l^otash,  and  you  will  have  a  splendid  color.  If  required 
deeper,  dip  in  the  sugar  of  lead  again,  then  in  the  pot- 
ash, several  times  alternately ;  then  dry  in  the  shade. 

TO    COLOR    ORANGE. 

Make  a  strong  lime-water  as  for  whitewashing.  It 
should  be  made  the  day  before  wanted.  Let  it  settle, 
for  if  there  is  any  settles  it  will  not  color.  The  stronger 
the  lime  water  the  better  color  you  will  have.  Put 
some  in  an  iron  kettle,  and  when  it  boils  dip  in  the  yel- 
low which  you  have  just  colored,  while  Avet ;  stir  well 
with  a  stick,  and  take  out ;  hang  up  to  dry.  It  must 
be  done  very  quickly  or  it  will  be  spotted. 

TO    COLOR    COTTON    LEMON    COLOR. 

To  two  pounds  of  cloth  take  six  ounces  of  sugar  of 
lead  dissolved  in  a  pailful  of  hot  water ;  four  ounces  of 
bichromate  of  potash  in  a  pailful  of  cold  water.  Dip 
your  cloth  in  the  lead  water  first,  then  in  the  potash 
water,  several  times  back  and  forth.  Dry  in  the  shade. 
TO    COLOR    GREEN    COTTON    GOODS. 

Color  yellow  by  the  recipe  below,  and  dip  in  the 
chemical  blue,  and  hang  up  to  dry  in  the  shade. 
These  colors  must  all  be  cold,  and  they  will  not  fade. 

TO  COLOR  BLUE  COTTON  GOODS. 

Use  the  chemical  boxes  of  blueing.  No  certain  rule 
can  be  given,  as  some  boxes  are  much  better  than  oth- 
ers.    Use   cold   water,  and   dip  your   goods  in   cold 


AND   HOUSEKEEPEB*S   AID.  269 

water  first,  then  in  the  bhie,  and  if  not  deep  enough 
add  more  blue  ;  wring  out  and  dry  in  the  shade.  It 
will  not  color  woolen. 

TO    DYE    BLACK. 

To  each  pound  of  goods  to  be  dyed  allow  a  pound 
of  logwood  chips,  or  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  extract 
of  logwood,  a  small  bit  of  copperas,  and  sufficient  vin- 
egar to  wet  the  goods.  If  the  chips  are  used,  put  in  a 
bag,  and  soak  over  night  in  an  iron  vessel ;  then  heat 
it  next  day  and  add  the  vinegar  and  copperas.  Wet 
the  goods  in  hot  water  and  put  in ;  let  them  steep 
all  day  ;  take  out  two  or  three  times  and  air,  or  they 
may  remain  another  day ;  wash  until  the  dye  will  not 
come  off. 

ANOTHER. 

Take  the  common  horse  sorrel,  and  steep  in  an  iron 
kettle  two  or  three  hours  ;  then  put  in  half  a  pound  of 
the  extract  of  logwood,  and  have  your  goods  perfectly 
clean ;  dip  in  a  strong  soapsuds  before  putting  in;  then 
let  them  steep  all  day ;  take  out  and  air  several  times ; 
then  wash  as  above.  This  will  color  three  pounds  of 
woolen  goods. 

SLATE  COLOR. 
One  paper  of  ink-powder,  one  quart  of  vinegar,  and 
water  enough  to  wet  the  goods.  It  must  be  done  in 
brass.  This  makes  a  beautiful  slate  color.  Sugar-loaf 
paper  boiled  in  water  and  set  with  alum,  makes  a  pur- 
ple slate  color ;  but  it  is  difficult  to  obtain  now,  as  sug- 
ar does  not  come  in  loaf  at  the  present  time.  Tea- 
grounds  boiled  in  iron  and  set  with  copperas,  will 
make  a  slate,  both  for  cotton  and  woolen.  Birch  bark, 
or  black  walnut  bark,  boiled  in  brass,  and  set  with  cop- 
peras, makes  a  nice  color.  Set  with  alum,  the  birch 
bark  will  make  a  bright  nankeen  color. 

ROYAL    PURPLE. 

Soak  logwood  chips  in  soft  water  until  the  strength 
is  out;  then  add  alum — a  tea-spoonful  to  a  quart  of  the 
liquor.  If  not  bright  enough,  add  more  alum.  Rinse 
and  dry.  When  the  dye  is  exhausted,  it  will  color  a 
fine  lilac. 


270  EXCELSIOR   COOK    BOOK 

BLUE  OR  GREEN  PER  POUND. 

Take  one  ounce  and  a  half  of  the  oil  of  vitriol,  a 
quarter  of  an  ounce  of  Spanish  indigo,  which  will  an- 
swer just  as  well  as  the  East-India  indigo,  which  is 
much  higher.  Stir  well  together,  and  add  a  lump  of 
pearlash  of  the  size  of  a  pea.  As  soon  as  the  fer- 
mentation ceases,  bottle  it,  and  it  w^ill  be  fit  to  use  the 
next  day.  Be  careful  not  to  let  it  get  on  cotton  cloths, 
or  it  will  eat  them.  Chromic  blue  is  made  in  the  same 
way,  only  using  half  the  quantity  of  vitriol.  This  dye 
will  only  answer  for  silk  and  woolen  goods.  For  blue, 
have  your  water  warm,  and  add  some  of  the  mix- 
ture ;  put  in  your  cloth  without  crowding,  and  let  it 
remain  till  colored,  keeping  it  warm  but  not  boiling. 
Do  not  wring  them,  but  drain ;  then  hang  up  to  dry  in 
a  shady  place.  When  dry,  wash  them  in  lukewarm 
suds  to  prevent  the  vitriol  from  injuring  them.  For 
green,  mix  the  above  mixture  with  yellow  dye,  but  do 
not  let  it  boil.  It  must  be  used  Avith  care,  as  it  is 
poison. 

A    NANKEEN    COLOR. 

A  pailful  of  lye,  with  a  piece  of  copperas  as  big  as  a 
hen's  egg  boiled  in  it,  will  produce  a  nankeen  color  that 
will  not  fade. 

YELLOW    DYES. 

Take  equal  parts  of  common  potash  and  annotto ; 
boil  in  soft  water.  When  dissolved,  take  it  from  the 
fire,  let  it  cool,  and  put  in  the  goods ;  set  them  by  the 
fire,  and  let  them  remain  until  the  right  color.  To 
dye  an  orange  color,  tie  annotto  in  a  bag,  and  squeeze 
it  in  soapsuds ;  put  in  your  goods  and  boil  until  the 
proper  shade ;  drain  them,  but  not  wring,  and  dry  in 
the  shade.  When  dry,  wash  in  soapsuds.  Fustic  col 
ors  a  nice  yellow ;  hickory  bark,  peach  leaves  or  saf- 
fron, set  with  alum,  make  a  good  yellow  color. 

TO    COLOR    MADDER. 

Prepare  a  brass  kettle  with  two  gallons  of  water ; 
bring  it  to  a  steady  heat ;  then  add  three  ounces  of 
alum,  and  one  ounce  of  cream  of  tartar ;  put  in  your 
cloth,  and  steep  two  hours ;  then  take  out  and  rinse  in 


AND  housekeeper's   AID.  2Vl 

cold  water.  Empty  your  kettle,  and  fill  with  as  much 
water  as  before ;  then  add  your  madder,  and  rub  well 
before  putting  in  your  cloth.  When  the  dye  is  as  warm 
as  you  can  bear  your  hand  in,  put  in  the  cloth,  and  let 
it  remain  an  hour,  and  keep  a  steady  heat ;  keep  it  in 
motion  constantly ;  then  boil  fifteen  minutes ;  air  and 
rinse  it.     This  will  color  one  pound. 

SCARLET. 

Dip  the  cloth  in  a  solution  of  alkaline  or  metallic  salt, 
then  in  a  cochineal  dye,  and  let  it  remain  some  time, 
and  it  will  come  out  permanently  colored. 

ANOTHER  WAY. 

Half  a  pound  of  madder,  half  an  ounce  of  cream  of 
tartar,  one  ounce  of  marine  acid  to  one  pound  of  cloth. 
Put  all  together,  and  bring  the  dye  to  a  scalding  heat. 
Put  in  your  cloth,  and  it  will  color  in  ten  minutes. 
The  dye  must  only  be  scalding  hot.  Rinse  in  cold 
water. 

CINIfAMON. 

For  twenty-four  yards  of  woolen  cloth,  take  three 
pounds  of  ground  camwood,  three  pecks  of  butternut 
bark ;  put  your  water  in  a  kettle,  and  let  it  boil  to  ex- 
tract the  strength;  put  in  your  cloths,  and  simmer 
slowly  one  hour ;  stir  often ;  take  it  out  and  air  it ;  then 
put  back,  and  let  it  remain  as  long  again.  If  not  dark 
enough,  dissolve  a  little  copperas  and  put  in.  Boil  a 
few  minutes,  and  rinse  in  cold  water.  Butternut  bark, 
or  the  bark  off  the  nut,  makes  a  very  pretty  color,  set 
with  alum.     The  color  is  very  much  like  Scotch  snuff. 

TO  COLOB  CARPET  RAGS  ALL  ONE  COLOR. 

Take  dark  woolen  rags,  and  boil,  or  simmer  rather, 
in  a  dye  of  redwood  and  madder,  half  and  half;  soak 
the  madder  in  vinegar  over  night,  and  set  the  color 
with  alum ;  boil  in  brass.  After  taking  out  the  woolen 
rags,  put  in  the  calicoes  and  boil.  If  not  deep  enough, 
add  more  redwood. 

TAN. 

Put  the  cloth  in  the  vats,  and  let  it  remain  four  or 
five  days ;  then  dip  in  a  strong  limewater,  and  rinse  in 


272  EXCELSIOR  COOK  BOOK 

cold  "water  and  dry,  or  you  may  get  some  of  the  tan- 
ner's liquid,  and  heat  boiling  hot,  and  put  in  your  cloth 
and  color  in  a  day. 

FOR    THE  TOILET. 

FOB    REMOVING    FRECKLES. 

Take  one  ounce  of  rectified  spirits  of  wine,  a  tea- 
spoonful  of  muriatic  acid,  applied  with  a  camel's  hair 
brush,  two  or  three  times  a  day. 

ANOTHER. 

Use  burnt  alum  and  lemon-juice. 

ANOTHER. 

One  ounce  of  bitter  almonds,  the  same  of  barley  flour ; 
mix  with  honey,  and  anoint  at  night,  wash  off  in  the 
morning. 

CHAPPED    LIPS. 

By  the  frequent  use  of  honey-water,  and  protecting 
the  lips  from  the  cold,  they  will  be  speedily  cured.  This 
is  also  good  for  chapped  hands.  Apply  it  at  night,  upon 
retiring  to  bed,  and  put  on  kid  gloves. 

LIP    SALVE. 

To  a  pint  of  white  vinegar,  put  an  ounce  of  lavender 
flowers ;  add  the  rind  of  a  lemon  cut  thin ;  steep  twenty- 
four  hours  in  a  stone  jar ;  then  filter,  and  put  in  a  bot- 
tle, corking  tight. 

LEMON  CREAM  FOR  SUNBURN  AND  FRECKLES. 

Put  two  spoonfuls  of  fresh  cream  into  half  a  pint  of 
milk ;  squeeze  in  the  juice  of  a  lemon,  half  a  glass  of 
brandy,  a  little  alum  and  loaf-sugar ;  boil  the  whole, 
and  skim  well,  and  when  cool  it  is  fit  for  use. 

LOTIONS    FOR    WRINKLES. 

Take  a  weak  barley-water,  one  pint ;  strain  it,  and 
add  twelve  drops  of  balm  of  Mecca ;  shake  it  well  to- 
gether, till  the  water  assumes  a  whitish  appearance. 
Wash  the  face  in  soft  water,  and  then  apply  once  a 
day.  It  will  beautify  the  face,  preserve  the  freshness 
of  youth,  and  give  a  brilliancy  to  the  skin. 


«^  AND   HOUSEKEEPER'S   AID.  2^3 

TO  IMPROVE  THE  SKIN  OP  THE  HANDS  AND 
,  9  ARMS. 

Take  equal  weights  of  Venice  soap  and  lemon-juice ; 
when  dissolved,  add  one  ounce  of  the  oil  of  bitter  al- 
monds, and  an  ounce  of  the  oil  of  tartar.  Mix  well  till 
it  has  acquired  the  consistency  of  soap. 

TO    DARKEN    THE    HAIR. 

Wash  the  head  in  spring  water,  and  comb  the  hair 
in  the  sun,  having  dipped  the  comb  in  oil  of  tartar.  Do 
this  three  times  a  day  for  a  fortnight. 

OIL    FOR    THE    HAIR. 

One  half  sweet  oil  and  half  brandy  is  very  nice  for  the 
hair,  or  alcohol  and  castor  oil  is  also  good.  The  cas- 
tor oil  should  be  boiled  before  using.  Scent  with  any 
thing  you  like. 

MACASSAR    OIL    FOR    THE    HAIR. 

Take  half  an  ounce  of  alkanet  root,  and  divide  into 
four  parts  ;  tie  up  each  part  in  a  bit  of  clean  thin  mus- 
lin ;  put  them  in  a  large  tumbler  or  earthen  vessel,  and 
pour  on  half  a  pint  of  the  best  fresh  olive  oil ;  cover  up 
tight,  and  let  it  remain  a  week.  Then  take  out  the  lit- 
tle bags  carefully,  and  lay  them  in  a  saucer.  The  oil 
will  be  colored  a  beautiful  crimson.  Put  into  a  bottle 
any  perfumery  you  like,  such  as  oil  of  roses,  oil  of  pink, 
extract  of  violets.  The  pungent  oils  are  not  good  for 
hair,  and  should  not  be  used  for  scenting  Macassar  oil. 
After  filling  your  bottle  or  vials,  tie  a  bit  of  white  leather 
over  the  corks.  Do  not  shake  it  when  used,  but  pour 
a  little  in  a  saucer,  and  with  the  finger  rub  into  the 
roots  of  the  hair.  The  bags  of  alkanet  will  answer  to 
use  again. 

MACASSAR   OIL — ANOTHER  WAY. 

Take  quarts  of  common  oil,  half  a  pint  of  spirits 
of  wine,  three  ounces  of  cinnamon  powder,  two  ounces 
of  bergamot.  Heat  them  together  in  an  earthen  ves- 
sel ;  then  remove  from  the  fire,  and  add  four  small  pieces 
of  alkanet  root;  keep  it  closely  covered  for  several 
hours ;  then  filter  and  put  in  vials,  with  white  leather 
tied  over  the  corks. 
12* 


274  EXCELSIOR   COOK   BOOK 

TO    MAKE    SOFT    POMATUM. 

Beat  half  a  pound  of  fresh  lard  in  water ;  then  soak 
it  in  rose-water ;  drain  it,  and  beat  with  two  spoonfuls 
of  brandy ;  drain  it  from  this,  and  add  any  scent  you 
like. 

ANOTHER  WAY. 

Soak  half  a  pound  of  beef^  marrow,  and  a  pound  of 
fresh  lard  in  water  two  or  three  days,  changing  and 
beating  it  every  day ;  put  it  to  drain,  and  when  dry, 
put  into  a  jar,  and  set  it  in  a  kettle  of  water.  When 
melted,  pour  it  into  a  basin,  and  add  two  spoonfuls  of 
brandy  ;  beat  it  well ;  then  pour  off  the  brandy,  and  add 
lenion  or  any  scent  you  like. 

HAKD    POMATUM. 

Prepare  equal  quantities  of  beef  marrow,  and  mut- 
ton tallow  suet,  in  cold  water  as  above ;  then  brandy  to 
preserve  it,  and  scent  with  any  thing  you  like.  Put  into 
moulds  or  vials  the  size  you  want,  and  when  cold,  break 
the  vials,  and  put  paper  around. 

POMADE    DIVINE. 

Take  a  pound  and  a  half  of  beef  marrow ;  put  it  into 
a  vessel  of  spring-water,  and  let  it  remain  ten  days, 
changing  the  water  every  day,  night  and  morning; 
then  steep  it  in  rose-water  twenty-four  hours  ;  drain  it 
in  a  cloth  till  dry ;  then  take  an  ounce  of  storax,  gum- 
benjamin,  odoriferous  cj'press-powder,  or  of  Florence, 
each  an  ounce,  half  an  ounce  of  cinnamon,  two  drachms 
of  cloves,  two  of  nutmegs,  all  finely  powdered ;  mix 
with  the  marrow,  and  put  into  a  pewter  pot  that  holds 
three  pints.  Make  a  paste  of  the  white  of  egg  and 
flour ;  put  on  a  cloth  ;  then  put  over  another  cloth,  to 
make  it  thick ;  fasten  on  the  pot  tightly  that  none  of 
the  steam  may  escape  ;  set  it  into  a  brass  or  copper  ket- 
tle with  water  in,  and  boil  four  hours  without  ceasing. 
Have  hot  water  in  another  kettle  to  fill  up  as  fast  as  it 
boils  out.  Do  not  let  it  come  up  to  the  top  to  wet  the 
cloth  ;  strain  it  through  a  linen  cloth,  and  put  into  small 
pots  ;  when  cold,  cover  them.  Don't  touch  it  with  any 
thing  but  silver. 


AND  housekeeper's  AID.  2Y5 

POT    POUKRI. 

Put  into  a  china  vessel  the  following  things  in  layers, 
with  bay  salt  between  each  layer :  two  pecks  of  dam- 
ask roses,  part  in  buds  and  part  in  blossom,  violets, 
orange  flowers,  jasmine,  a  handful  of  each,  orris  root 
sliced,  benjamin  and  storax,  two  ounces  of  each,  a  quar- 
ter of  an  ounce  of  musk,  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  angeli- 
ca roots  sliced,  a  quart  of  the  red  parts  of  clove  gilli- 
flowers,  two  handfuls  of  lavender  flowers,  half  a  hand- 
ful of  rosemary  flowers,  bay  and  laurel  leaves,  half  a 
handful  of  each,  three  Seville  oranges,  stuck  full  of 
cloves,  dried  in  a  cool  oven,  half  a  handful  of  knotted 
marjoram,  and  two  handfuls  of  balm  of  Gilead  dried. 
Cover  close,  and  when  the  pot  is  uncovered  the  per- 
fume is  beautiful. 

TO    MAKE    KOSE-"WATEB. 

Take  rose  leaves  and  place  them  on  a  napkin,  tied 
over  a  basin  filled  with  hot  water ;  put  a  dish  of  cold 
water  on  top ;  keep  the  lower  basin  hot,  and  as  often 
as  the  upper  water  warms,  put  on  more  cold.  By  this 
process  you  will  obtain  the  essential  oil. 

OIL    OP    ROSES. 

Olive  oil  one  quart,  one  drachm  of  otto  of  roses, 
the  same  of  oil  of  rosemary ;  mix  together.  Color  with 
alkanet  root  steeped  in  the  oil,  before  scenting  it. 

FOB  SUNBURN",  AND  TO  PREVENT  THE  SKIN 
PROM  CRACKING. 

Melt  two  ounces  of  spermaceti  in  a  pipkin ;  then  add 

two  ounces  of  oil  of  almonds,  and  when  they  are  well 

mixed,  add  a  table-spoonful  of  honey ;  stir  until  well 

mixed  ;  then  put  in  a  jar.     Apply  on  going  to  bed  at 

night. 

FOR    PIMPLES    ON    THE    FACE. 

Boil  together  a  handful  of  the  herbs  of  patience  and 
pimpernel,  each  in  water,  and  wash  every  day. 

CREAM    OF    ROSES. 

Take  eight  ounces  of  rose-water,  the  same  of  oil  of 
almonds,  half  an  ounce  of  white  wax,  the  same  of  sper- 


276  EXCELSIOR   COOK   BOOK 

maceti  ;  proceed  as  for  cold  cream ;  then  add  ten  drops 

of  neroli,  eight  drops  of  otto  of  roses ;  when  cold,  put 
into  pots.     This  is  preferred  to  cold  crcAm. 

TOOTH    PO'WDER. 

Mix  equal  parts  of  powdered  chalk  and  charcoal ;  add 
a  small  quantity  of  Castile  soap.  This  will  keep  the 
teeth  beautifully  white. 

ANOTHEK.  \ 

Take  equal  parts  of  myrrh,  chalk  and  orris  powder. 

MIXED    TOOTH    PO'WDER. 

Finely  prepared  chalk  four  ounces,  pure  starch  four 
ounces,  myrrh  three  ounces,  ginger  one  ounce,  cream 
of  tartar  six  ounces,  sugar  and  flower  of  lavender  at 
pleasure  ;  mix  well  together. 

\7ASH    FOR    THE    HAIR. 

One  drachm  of  rosemary,  half  an  ounce  of  olive  oil, 
two  drachms  of  hartshorn,  half  a  pint  of  rose-water. 
Add  the  rose-water  by  degrees,  or  it  will  not  amalga- 
mate. 
TO    PREVENT    THE    HAIR    PROM    PALLING    OFF. 

Make  a  decoction  of  white-oak  bark,  and  use  freely. 
Make  it  fresh  every  two  weeks. 

GO"WLAND'S    LOTION. 

Take  one  and  a  quarter  grains  of  bichloride  of  mer- 
cury, one  ounce  of  emulsion  of  bitter  almonds ;  mix 
well.  The  mercury  is  a  poison.  This  is  one  of  the 
best  cosmetics  for  imparting  a  delicate  complexion,  and 
is  useful  in  ringworms  and  sun-blistering,  or  for  hard 

dry  skin. 

MILK    OP    ALMONDS. 

Bruise  sweet  alnionds  in  a  mortar ;  add  water  by  de- 
grees, in  proportion  of  a  pint  to  twenty  or  thirty  al- 
monds ;  put  in  a  lump  of  sugar  to  prevent  the  separa- 
tion of  the  oil  from  the  water,  rubbing  constantly.  Pass 
the  whole  tbrongh  a  flannel,  and  perfume  with  oraijge^ 
flower  water.    This  is  used  to  bathe  the  face. 


AND   housekeeper's   AID.  2^7 

TO    BliMOVE    SUPERFLUOUS    HAIR. 

Two  ounces  of  lime,  four  ounces  of  carbonate  of  pot- 
ash, two  drachms  of  charcoal  powder.  Make  into  a 
paste  with  warm  water,  and  apply  to  the  part,  Avhich 
must  be  previously  shaved.  When  completely  dry, 
wash  off  with  warm  water. 

'WASH  FOR  SUNBURN. 
Take  two  drachms  of  borax,  one  of  Roman  alum, 
one  of  camphor,  half  an  ounce  of  sugar-candy,  one 
pound  of  ox-gall ;  mix  and  stir  well  together  three  or 
four  times  a  day,  until  transparent ;  then  strain  through 
filtering  paper,  and  bottle  up  close. 

"LAVENDER  "WATER. 

Take  rectified  spirits  of  wine  half  a  pint,  essential 
oil  of  lavender  two  drachms,  five  drops  of  otto  of  roses ; 
mix  well  and  cork  tight. 

ANOTHER. 

One  ounce  of  English  oil  of  lavender,  the  same  of 
bergamot,  one  pint  of  rectified  spirits  of  wine,  four 
cloves.  Shake  well  together,  and  let  it  remain  a  month 
well  corked  :  then  add  two  ounces  of  distilled  water, 
and  then  distill  the  whole. 

AROMATIC    VINEGAR. 

Take  four  ounces  of  dried  tops  of  rosemary,  four 
ounces  of  dried  leaves  of  sage,  four  ounces  of  dried 
flowers  of  lavender,  half  an  ounce  of  cloves,  three 
drachms  of  camphor,  six  pints  of  distilled  vinegar.  Let 
it  remain  in  a  warm  place  two  weeks,  and  then  filter. 

ROSE-WATER. 

Put  some  roses  in  water,  and  add  a  few  drops  of  vi- 
triolic acid ;  the  water  will  assume  both  the  color  and 
perfume  of  the  rose. 

HOW    TO    MAKE    LAVENDER    WATER. 
Take  four  handfuls  of  dried  lavender  leaves ;  sprinkle 
on  them  one  quart  of  brandy,  the  same  quantity  of 
white  wine,  and  roso-water.     Leave  a  week  in  a  large 


278  EXCELSIOR  COOK   BOOK 

bottle  well  corked ;  then  distill,  and  bottle  tigbt.  Ber- 
gamot  may  be  made  in  the  same  way,  only  using  ber- 
gamot  leaves. 

BRITISH    OTTO    OF    KOSES. 

Take  any  convenient  quantity  of  the  petals  of  fra- 
grant-scented flowers,  roses,  jasmine,  and  others  of  the 
same  season,  a  small  quantity  of  mignonnette,  and  sweet- 
brier,  more  rose  leaves  than  any  thing  else.  Spread 
them  on  thin  layers  of  cotton,  and  a  layer  of  flowers 
alternately,  until  a  glass  jar  is  filled.  The  cotton  must 
be  dipped  in  Florence  or  Lucca  oil  first.  Tie  a  bladder 
over  the  top  to  keep  tight ;  then  place  the  vessel  where 
it  will  have  the  heat  of  the  sun  for  two  weeks.  Then 
open  and  squeeze  out  the  mass,  and  a  fragrant  oil  will 
be  expressed  nearly  equal  to  the  high-priced  otto  ol 
roses. 

A    NICE    "WASH    FOR    THE    HAIR. 

Take  one  ounce  of  borax,  half  an  ounce  of  camphor  » 
powder  fine,  and  dissolve  in  one  quart  of  boiling  water ; 
when  cool,  wash  the  head  with  a  piece  of  sponge,  rub- 
bing the  roots  of  the  hair  well ;  afterward  wipe  with  a 
dry  towel.  It  should  be  done  at  night  before  retiring 
to  bed.  In  the  morning  use  oil  or  pomatum.  This 
wash  cleanses  the  hair  and  stimulates  its  growth ;  the 
oil  is  required  to  soften  and  maintain  its  gloss. 

TOOTH    PO"WDER. 

Charcoal  two  ounces,  Peruvian  bark  one  ounce,  pow- 
dered orris  root  half  an  ounce,  the  same  of  prepared 
chalk,  oil  of  lavender  or  bergamot  twenty  drops ;  work 
in  a  mortar  until  thoroughly  incorporated.  This  is  pref- 
erable to  other  tooth  powders,  because  it  gives  an  odor- 
ous breath,  cleanses  and  purifies  the  gums,  and  pre- 
serves the  enamel. 

CAMPHOR    CERATE    FOR    CHAPPED    HANDS. 

Take  one  ounce  and  a  half  of  spermaceti,  half  an 
ounce  of  white  wax,  six  drachms  of  camphor,  and  four 
table-spoonfuls  of  olive  oil ;  put  in  an  earthen  vessel, 
and  let  it  stand  before  the  fire  till  it  dissolves ;  stir  it 


AND   housekeeper's  AID.  2V9 

well  when  liquid ;  rub  the  hands  thoroughly  with  a  lit- 
tle of  the  cerate,  and  then  wash  them  as  usual.  It  is 
better  to  put  on  at  night.  Keep  it  well  covered,  or  it 
will  evaporate.  For  perspiration  of  the  hands,  use  a 
little  wheat  bran. 

TO    "WHITEN"    THE    HANDS. 

Take  a  wine-glass  of  eau  de  Cologne,  and  another  of 
lemon-juice ;  then  scrape  two  cakes  of  brown  Windsor 
soap,  or  pure  white  soap,  and  mix  well  in  a  mould. 
When  hard,  use  for  whiting  the  hands. 

TO    MAKE    EAU    DE    COLOGNE. 

Take  two  quarts  of  spirits  of  wine ;  add  three  fourths 
of  an  ounce  of  bergamot,  three  eighths  of  an  ounce  of 
oil  of  cedra,  the  same  of  lemon-peel  and  orange  flowers 
each,  sixteenth  of  an  ounce  of  oil  of  rosemary,  and  four 
grains  of  camphor.  Shake  the  whole  a  quarter  of  an 
hour ;  then  let  it  remain  a  fortnight  without  agitation ; 
then  filter  through  white  blotting-paper,  and  bottle. 

ANOTHEK. 

Take  a  pint  of  alcohol,  and  put  in  thirty  drops  of  the 
oil  of  lemon,  thirty  of  bergamot ;  shake  well,  and  then 
add  half  a  gill  of  water.     Bottle  tight. 

ODOR    DELECTABILIS. 

Take  four  ounces  of  distilled  rose-water,  four  ounces 
of  orange-flower  water,  one  drachm  of  oil  of  cloves, 
one  of  English  oil  of  lavender,  two  drachms  of  oil  of 
bergamot,  two  grains  of  musk,  one  pint  of  spirits  of 
wine  ;  macerate  thoroughly,  and  add  one  drachm  of  es- 
sence of  musk. 

PALMA    CHKISTI    OIL. 

Take  one  ounce  of  palma  christi  oil ;  add  oil  of  ber- 
gamot or  lavender  to  scent  it ;  brush  it  well  into  the 
hair  twice  a  day  for  two  or  three  months.  It  will  make 
the  hair  luxuriant. 

BANDOLINE    FOR    THE    HAIR. 

Put  one  oimce  of  quince  seed  to  a  quart  of  water ; 
let  it  simmer  half  an  hour ;  then  strain  it,  and  when 


280  EXCELSIOR  cook:  book 

cold  add  any  scent  you  like.     Linseed  or  gum-arabic 
are  good  done  in  the  same  manner. 

ANOTHER. 

Take  an  ounce  and  a  half  of  isinglass,  two  thirds  of 
a  pint  of  water ;  pour  the  water  over  the  isinglass,  and 
cover  it ;  let  it  remain  all  night.  The  next  day  put 
where  it  will  warm  till  dissolved ;  then  add  two  wine- 
glasses of  spirits  of  wine ;  scent  with  any  oil  you  like, 
but  mix  with  the  spirits  before  adding. 

TO    MAKE    WASH-BALLS. 

Shave  two  pounds  of  new  white  soap  in  a  tea-cupful 
of  rose-water ;  then  pour  as  much  boiling  water  on  as 
will  soften  it ;  put  a  pint  of  sweet  oil  into  a  brass  pan ; 
four  ounces  of  oil  of  almonds,  half  a  pound  of  sperma- 
ceti ;  set  it  over  the  fire  till  dissolved,  then  add  the 
soap,  and  half  an  ounce  of  camphor  reduced  to  a  pow- 
der, by  adding  a  little  spirits  of  wine  or  lavender- 
water.  Boil  ten  minutes,  then  pour  into  a  basin,  and 
stir  till  thick  enough  to  make  into  balls,  which  must 
be  done  as  quick  as  possible.  If  essence  is  used,  stir  in 
quick  after  taking  off  the  fire. 

THE    NAILS. 

To  give  a  fine  color  to  the  nails  they  must  be  washed 
in  fine  soap ;  then  rub  with  equal  parts  of  cinnabar 
and  emery,  and  afterward  with  oil  of  bitter  almonds. 
Lemon-juice  is  good  to  wash  them  in.  They  should 
never  be  scraped. 

COLD    CKEAM. 

Take  oil  of  almonds  two  ounces,  white  wax  and  sperm- 
aceti each  one  drachm ;  melt  in  an  earthen  vessel,  and 
while  warm  add  rose-water  two  ounces,  half  an  ounce 
of  orange  flower. 

TO    CLEAN    HAIR-BKUSHES. 

Dissolve  a  table-spoonful  of  saleratus  in  a  pint  of 
boiling  water ;  wash  your  brush  in  this  with  a  soft 
cloth  or  sponge,  but  do  not  wet  the  backs  or  handles ; 
when  well  washed  rinse  in  clear  hot  water ;  then  wipe 


AND   housekeeper's   AID.  281 

with  a  dry  towel.     Wash  them  in  one  third  ammonia 
and  two  thirds  water  is  nice,  and  will  stiffen  the  bristles. 

COLD    CKEAM.    NO.    2. 

Take  one  drachm  of  pulverized  borax,  one  ounce  of 
spermaceti,  hog's  lard  four  ounces;  add  rose-water 
enough  to  boil  up  thick  as  cream  ;  keep  air-tight. 

FOR    THE    HAIR. 

Take  four  ounces  of  castor-oil ;  boil  it ;  then  add  by 
degrees  one  pint  of  bay-rum,  a  little  borax  pulverized, 
and  two  drachms  of  the  tincture  of  cantharides ;  per- 
fume with  any  thing  you  like ;  shake  well  and  apply 
to  the  hair  as  occasion  requires. 

TO    MAKE    LEATHER    ^WATER-PROOF. 

Take  one  ounce  of  the  balsam  of  copaiba,  and  one 
ounce  of  beeswax  ;  melt  together  and  apply  warm.  It 
improves  the  leather,  and  is  good  for  sore  or  chapped 

hands. 

FOR    PIMPLES    OW    THE    FACE.    NO.    2. 

Dissolve  ten  grains  of  corrosive  sublimate,  fifteen 
grains  of  muriate  of  ammonia,  in  two  ounces  of  Cologne 
and  two  of  rose-water ;  bathe  the  parts  affected. 

INVISIBLE    CEMENT. 

Dissolve  isinglass  in  hot  alcohol,  and  it  will  stick 
firmly  broken  crockery  or  glass. 

TO    DARKEN    THE    HAIR. 

Take  two  ounces  of  lac  sulphur,  half  an  ounce  of 
sufrar  of  lead,  half  an  ounce  of  sulphate  of  iron  ;  per- 
.  fume  with  any  thing  you  like ;  moisten  the  hair  at  night 
and  comb  out  in  the  morning. 

POMATUM  FOR  THE  COMPLEXION. 
Take  one  ounce  of  oil  of  sweet  almonds,  half  an 
ounce  of  white  wax  and  spermaceti  each,  with  a  little 
balm ;  melt  these  ingredients  slowly  over  a  fire ;  then 
pour  into  a  marble  mortar,  and  stir  until  smooth  and 
co1(Ij  then  add  gradually  an  ounce  of  rose-water ;  stir 


282  EXCELSIOR   COOK   BOOK 

till  it  resembles  cream.     This  renders  the  skin  soft  and 
smooth.     Keep  it  tied  with  a  bladder. 

LIP    SALVE.   NO.    2. 

Take  half  a  pound  of  fresh  lard,  an  ounce  and  a  half 
of  white  wax ;  set  it  on  the  fire  till  melted  ;  then  take 
a  small  tin  dish,  fill  with  water,  and  a  few  chips  of 
alkanet  root;  let  the  water  boil  till  it  becomes  red ; 
strain  and  mix  with  the  other  ingredients ;  scent  with 
any  agreeable  extract,  and  pour  into  small  jars. 


INDEX 


PAGE 

Ailments,  Diseases,  Etc.  : 
Ague  in  the  Face,  231 ;  Ankle,  Sprain- 
ed, 233 ;  Asthma,  233 ;  Barber's  Itch, 
Cure  for,  234;  Bleeding  at  the  Nose, 
228 ;  Boils,  to  prevent,  234 ;  Bronchi- 
tis, 225;  Burns,  226;  Cancers,  Rem- 
edy, 225 ;  Cankered  Mouth,  22T  ;  Ca- 
tarrh in  the  Head,  230;  Chapped 
Hands,  235;  Chilblains,  228 ;  Cholera 
Morbus,  230;  Colds,  Treatment  of, 
232;  Colic,  Bilious,  230 ;  Cough,  Cure 
for,  224,  235 ;  Corns,  235 ;  Cramp,  to 
cure,  225 ;  Croup,  220 ;  Cut,  for  a,  225 ; 
Diphtheria,  227  ;  Dressing  for  a  Blis- 
ter, 234 ;  Dropsy,  229 ;  Earache,  Cure 
for,  224 ;  Felon,  Cure  for  a,  226 ;  Frost- 
ed Fruit,  184 ;  Fruit,  to  preserve  by 
Drying,  184 ;  Headache,  231 ;  Hoarse- 
ness or  Loaded  Chest,  224 ;  Hot  Wa- 
ter, Medical  Effects,  235 ;  Humors, 
230;  Hydrophobia,  232;  Itch,  229; 
Lumbago,  236;  Measles,  230;  Mea- 
sles, Small-Pox,and  Scarlet  Fever,237; 
Mortification,  229  ;  Mumps,  231 ;  Mus- 
tard Poultice,  22S  ;  Nails  growing  into 
the  Toes,  233 ;  Nauseous  Taste  of  Med- 
icine, 335 ;  Neuralgia,  232  ;  Opodel- 
doc, 224;  Pimples,  Sties,  and  Boils, 
229;  Polypus,  228;  Proud  Flesh,  231 ; 
Quinsy,  232;  Rheumatism,  232,  233, 
237;  Ringworm,  to  cure,  226;  Salt 
Rheum,  229 ;  Scarlet  Fever  Remedy, 
225  ;  Senna,  to  take,  237 ;  Sick-Room, 
to  purify,  235 ;  Sore  Throat,  227 ;  Spin- 
al Difficulties,  231;  Spitting  Blood, 
233 ;  Stiflf  Joints,  232 ;  Sties  in  the 
Eye,  236 ;  Sting  of  a  Bee,  224 ;  Sum- 
mer Complaint,  229 ;  Thorns,  to  take 
out,  237 ;  Toothache,  231 ;  Vomiting, 
to  stop,  228 ;  Warts,  228 ;  Weak  Eyes, 
234;  Whitlow,  237;  Worms  in  Child- 
ren, 231 

Apples,  Baked, 193 

Apples  and  Rice, 194 

Apples  for  Dessert, 194 

Apples  for  Fritters, 1 60 

Apple  Souffle, 168 

Artichokes, 90 

Asparagus, 84,  91,  289 

Beans, 89 

Beans,  Lima, 90 

Beans,  Strijog, 89 


PAG8 

Beds,  to  clean, 249 

Beech,  to  stain  the  Color  of  Mahog- 
any,   252 

Beef,  a  la  Mode, 23,  52 

Beef  h.  la  Muskmelon,  53 ;  Beef  Balls, 
53;  Beef  baked  with  Potatoes,  52; 
Broiling  Beef,  21 ;  Beef  Cakes,  24,  25 ; 
Beef  Cobbets,  43 ;  Cooked  in  Onions, 
23;  Corned,  to  boil,  34,  52;  Fricas- 
seed Beef,  22 ;  Fried  Beef,  22 ;  Beef, 
Frozen,  27 ;  Frizzled,  26 ;  Beef's 
Heart,  28;  Hunter's  Beef,  24;  Beef, 
Jellied,  a  la  Mode,  53 ;  Liver,  26,  52 ; 
Olives,  25;  Pickled,  16,  46;  Pie,  28; 
Pressed,  52  ;  Roast  or  Baked  Beef,  22 ; 
Beef,  Rolled,  23 ;  Rump  of,  a  la  Bouil- 
lie,  41 ;  or  Veal,  Stewed,  34  ;  to  stew, 
26 ;  Tongues  or  Dried  Beef,  a  Pickle, 
for,  16 

Beefsteak,  Italian, 25 

Beefsteak  Pudding, 62 

Berries  : 
Blackberries,  241 ;  Gooseberries,  241 ; 
Raspberries,  241 ;  Strawberries,  241. 
Beeswax,    to    separate     from    the 

Comb, 259 

Beets, 85 

Birds,  to  pot, 35 

Birds,  to  stew, 34 

Black  Lace  Vail,  to  wash, 246 

Blacking,  Liquid, 253 

Blacking,  to  make, 255 

Bouilli, 23 

Bread,  Making, 147 

Apple  Bread,  152;  Biscuit,  157;  Hard 
Biscuit,  155 ;  Biscuit,  153 ;  Brentford 
Rolls,  154 ;  Brown  Bread,  152 ;  But- 
ter Crackers,  156;  Corn  Loaf,  153; 
Crackers  from  Bread  Dough,  156; 
Cream  of  Tartar  Bread,  151 ;  Currant 
Bread,  153;  English  Rolls,  154;  Ex- 
celsior Bread,  150 ;  French  Rolls,  155 ; 
Graham  Bread,  150, 151 ;  Indian,  151, 
152 ;  Milk  Yeast,  149  ;  Potato  Bread, 
151 ;  Pumpkin  Bread,  151 ;  Rolls,  154  ; 
Rusk,  154;  Rve  Bread,  151 ;  Salt  Ris- 
ing, 149;  Soft  Muffins,  136;  Wheat 
Bread,  149;  Yeast,  Baker's,  149; 
Yeast  Cakes,  147 ;  Yeast,  Potato,  148 ; 
Yeast,  Soft,  14S 

Broccoli,  91 

Brussels  Spouts, 92 


284 


IKDEX. 


PAGE 
BtTTTER   AND   ChEESE, 209 

Brandy  Cheese,  214 ;  Butter,  to  make, 
210;  Cheese  Cream,  215;  Cheese,  to 
make,  212,  214 ;  Cheese,  to  preserve 
from  the  Fly,  214 ;  Cottage  or  Dutch 
Cheese,  214;  Cream,  to  raise,  215; 
Curd,  to  scald,  213 ;  Rennet,  to  pre- 
pare, 212 
Buttermilk,  Flavored, 209 

Cabbage, 84,  97 

Cabbage  Salad, 88 

Cabbages,  to  make  grow, 263 

Cactus,  the, .242 

Cakes : 
Almond  Cake,  105 ;  Berwick  Sponge, 
119  ;  Breakfast,  155 ;  Champagne,  108 ; 
Cheap,  112 ;  Cheese,  163 ;  Cider,  121 ; 
Cocoa-Nut  Cakes,  107, 113, 114 ;  CoflFee, 
120 ;  Coloring  for  Icing,  101 ;  Compo- 
sition Cake,  107,  114;  Cookies,  105, 
108,  119;  Corn-Starch  Cake,  121; 
Cream,  111 ;  Cream  Jelly,  120 ;  Cream 
of  Tartar  Doughnuts,  108;  Crullers, 
105,  112;  Cup  Cake,  110,  111,  117; 
Cymbals,  109;  Delicate  Cake,  107; 
Directions  for  making,  102;  Dough- 
nuts, 106 ;  Drop  Cakes,  102 ;  Elmsdale 
Cake,  121;  English  Seed  Cake,  163; 
French  Loaf,  103,  112 ;  French  Twist, 
109 ;  Frosting  Cake,  101 ;  Fruit,  103, 
104,  107,  110,  111 ;  Gingerbread,  105, 
114, 115, 120 ;  Gingerbread  Nuts,  120 ; 
Ginger  Crackers,  115;  Ginger  Snaps, 
106;  Gold  Cake,  104,  117;  Green 
Corn,  146;  Hard  Cookies,  118;  Hick- 
ory-Nut Cake,  104;  Honey,  112; 
Jam,  121 ;  Jelly,  108,  113,  117  ;  Jum- 
bles, 109 ;  Kisses,  105 ;  Lady's  Cake, 
103 ;  Lemon,  109 ;  Lemon  Cheese 
Cakes,  108 ;  Lincoln,  118 ;  Loaf  with- 
out Eggs,  116;  Luncheon,  115;  Mock 
Sponge,  107;  Mountain,  121;  One- 
Two-Three-Four,  117 ;  Pilgrim's  Loaf, 
121;  Pork,  111;  Pound,  103, 104, 110; 
Pound  Cake  Measured,  118,  Plum 
Cake,  102;  Queen's,  106,  110,  116; 
Railroad,  114 ;  Rusk,  119 ;  Rye  Cake, 
157,  158;  Sally  Lunn,  155;  Savoy 
Cakes,  113;  Scotch  Cake,  104-;  Sil- 
ver,'104,  110,  116;  Snaps,  114;  Soda 
Cake,  108,  110,  111,  115,  118,  120; 
Soda  Crullers,  105 ;  Soda  Jumbles, 
119  ;  Soft,  112 ;  Sponge,  110, 115, 116  ; 
Sponge  Gingerbread,  106;  Sugar- 
Drops,  109  ;  Sugar  Gingerbread,  118 ; 
Star  Ginger  Cakes,  lOS;  Strawberry 
Cake,  111;  Strawberry  Short  Cake, 
157;  Trifles,  155;  Union  Cake,  118; 
\'anities,113;  Wafers,  113;  Wedding 
Cake,  106;  West  Point,  112;  Whigs, 
119  ;  Whistles,  113 ;  Wonders,  109 

Calicoes  that  Fade,  to  wash, 263 

Calicoes,  to  wash, 242 

Callas,  or  Ethlopiaa  Lily, 242 


page 

Calves'  Feet, 29 

Calves'  Head 28 

Camphor  Spirits, 234 

Carpet  Rags,  to  dye  all  one  Color, ..271 

Carpets, 249,  250 

Carrots, 85 

Carving, 17 

Cauliflower, 84,  97,  239 

Cecils, 25 

Celeriac, 91 

Celery, 239 

Celery,  to  stew, 86,  92 

Cement  for  Bottles, 251 

Cement  for  Earthenware,  250;  for 
Glass,  etc.,  250,  262;  for  Ironware, 
251 ;  for  Knife-Handles,  250,  256;  In- 
visible, 281 ;  for  Wood,  262,  263 

Chickens, 30 

Chickens  and  Oysters,  44 ;  Boiled,  55 ; 
Broiled,  31 ;  Fricassee,  30 ;  Fried,  44, 
55 ;  Pie,  31 ;  Pot-Pie,  31 ;  Pudding,  31, 
42;Salad,  32,  45 

Chocolate  and  Cocoa, 208 

Chowder, 89 

Cider,  to  keep  Sweet, 252 

Cochineal,  to  color  Woolen  or  Silk,  .267 

Coffee  and  Tea, 207 

To  Color : 
Black,  269 ;  Blu«  Cotton  Goods,  268 ; 
Blue  or  Green  per  Pound,  270 ;  Cin- 
namon, 271 ;  Cotton,  Lemon  Color, 
268 ;  Green  Cotton  Goods,  268 ;  Mad- 
der, 270 ;  Nankeen,  270 ;  Orange,  208 ; 
Royal  Purple,  269 ;  Scarlet,  271 ;  Slate 
Color,  269 ;  Tan,  271 ;  Yellow  on  Cot- 
ton, 268 
Collops,  28 ;  Minced,  48 

Confectionery, 215 

Candj',  Molasses,  184  ;  Caramel,  for 
Pastry,  216;  Essence  of  Cinnamon, 
217  ;  Citron,  to  Candy,  216  ;  Cream  of 
Preserved  Fi-uit,  217;  Cream  Snow, 
216 ;  Fruit,  to  Candy,  215,  216 ;  Lemon 
Drops,  207 ;  Lemons,  to  keep,  217 ; 
Sugar  Candy,  217 ;  Sugar  Kisses,  216 

Corn,  Dry  Green, 90 

Corn,  Sweet, S8 

Cows,  keeping  of, 209 

Creams,  Etc.  : 
Blanched  Cream,  171;  Burnt,  171; 
Cake  Trifle,  173 ;  Cream,  to  whip,  172 ; 
Floating  Island,  172;  Ice  Cream,  169, 
170;  Lemon,  170,  171;  Orange,  171; 
Pompadour,  171 ;  Rhenish,  170 ;  Snow- 
Balls,  172;  Snow  Rice  Cream,  171; 
Swiss,  170  ;  Trifle,  a,  172  ;  Whip 
Cream,  169 

Crumpets, 159 

Cucumbers, 86 

Curried  Dishes, 85 

Dyeing, 267 

Dahlias, 241 

Dandelion  Beer, 238 

Duck  or  Babbit,  to  boil, 88 


INDEX. 


285 


PACK 

Earthenware  and  Iron,  to  temper,.  .257 

Eggs, 69 

Eggs,  Baked,  72 ;  Cupped,  71  ;  Boiling 
Eggs,  70 ;  for  Preserving,  69 ;  done 
with  Cheese,  71;  Omelette,  71,  72; 
Omelette,  Sweet,  71 ;  Eggs,  Poached, 
71 ;  to  choose,  69 ;  to  poach  in  a 
Cup,  71 

Eggplant, 87,239 

Essences,  Extracts,  Etc.  : 

Blackberries,  Pickled,  187 ;  Compotes 
of  Fruit,  193;  Currants,  Preserved, 
187 ;  Custard,  Boiled,  195 ;  Essence  of 
Ginger,  188 ;  Essence  of  Nutmeg,  188 ; 
Extract  of  Lemon  and  Orange,  188 ; 
Fruit  Ice  Cream,  195 ;  Lemon  Pickle, 
190;  Orange  Custard,  195;  Orange 
Jelly,  193;  Orange  Preserves,  193; 
Quinces,  Baked,  194 ;  Quinces  pre- 
served Wliite,  190  ;  Rice  Jelly,  193 ; 
Rum  Jelly,  194;  Strawberries  dried 
in  Sugar,  187;  Water-Melon  Syrup, 
196 

Etceteras, 237 

Feathers,  to  curl, 257 

Feathers,  White,  to  clean, 257 

Fish, "i^ 

Black  Fish,  75 ;  Clams,  77 ;  Clam  Pan- 
cakes, 78;  Codfish,  73,  74,  75;  Eels, 
Baked,  82  ;  Eels,  Stewed,  75 ;  Eels,  to 
cook,  75 ;  Fish,  Broiled,  81  ;  Fish 
Cakes,  77  ;  Fish  Force-Meat  Balls,  76 ; 
Fish,  Fresh,  to  cook,  76 ;  Fish,  Fresh, 
to  crimp,  77 ;  Fish,  Potted,  81 ;  Had- 
dock, 81 ;  Halibut,  73  ;  Lobsters  and 
Crabs,  77 ;  Lobsters,  Pickled,  80 ; 
Lobsters,  to  dress  cold,  77 ;  Mackerel, 
75 ;  Mackerel,  Soused,  79  ;  Oyster  Pie, 
78 ;  Oyster  Patties,  78 ;  Oysters,  Fried, 
78;  Oysters,  Scolloped,  79;  Oysters, 
Spiced,  80  ;  Oysters,  Stewed,  78,  79, 
81 ;  Oysters,  to  keep,  81 ;  Oysters,  to 
pickle,  79  ;  Salmon,  Pickled,  80 ;  Sal- 
mon, Smoked,  75 ;  Salmon,  to  boil,  74 ; 
Scollops,  77  ;  Shad,  Baked,  74 ;  Shad, 
to  Pickle,  80;  Sounds  and  Tongues, 
75;  Sturgeons,  76;  Sturgeon  Steaks, 
76 ;  Trout,  76 ;  Trout,  Pickled,  80 
Flowers,  Dififerent,  from  the  same  Stem, 
240 ;  Flowers,  to  hasten  their  Blowing, 
241 ;  Flowers,  to  restore,  240 

Force-Meat  Balls, 27 

French  Polish, 247 

Fricandeau  of  Beef, 24 

Fritters, 159,160,161 

Frogs, 44 

Furs  and  Flannels, 252 

Gardening,  Hints  on, 238 

Geese  or  Ducks,  Roast, 33 

Geraniums, 242 

Gloves,  to  dye, 258 

Godfrey's  Cordial 236 

Gold,  to  color, 263 

Goose,  Mock, ^ 


PAGE 

Goose,  Pickled 56 

Grafting, 255 

Grasses,  to  preserve, 254 

Gravies  and  Sauces, 57 

Apple  Sauce,  58  ;  Brown  Gravies,  57  ; 
Brown  Sauce,  58 ;  Butter,  Burnt,  57, 
60 ;  Butter,  Clarified,  62  ;  Butter, 
Drawn,  57,  60 ;  Browning  for  Made 
Dishes,  59  ;  Celery  Sauce,  58  ;  Celery 
Vinegar,  57;  Cranberry  Sauce,  58; 
Currant  Sauce,  60 ;  Curry  Powder,  61 ; 
Dressing  for  Roast  Pig,  62 ;  Dressing 
for  a  Goose,  62;  for  Cold  Meat,  60; 
for  Goose,  61 ;  for  Roast  Beef,  63 ;  for 
Turtle,  59;  for  Venison,  63;  French 
Sauce,  61  ;  Herb  Spirit,  59 ;  Horse 
Radish,  62 ;  Lemon  Sauce,  62 ;  Liver 
Sauce,  58 ;  Lobster  Sauce,  58 ;  Mush- 
room Sauce,  62 ;  Mustard  to  Mix,  61 ; 
Onion  Sauce,  63 
Grease,  from  Merinoes  and  Silks, . .  .244 

Green  Corn  Cake, 156 

Greens, 89 

Griddle  Cakes, 161 

Bread  Cakes,  162;  Buckwheat,  161; 
Corn,  162 ;  Cream,  163 ;  Flannel,  161 ; 
Fruit,  163;  Indian,  162;  Potato,  162; 
Rice,  162;  Rye,  162;  Wheat,  161, 
162,  163 

Griddles.  Fresh  Meat, 28 

Guinea  and  Pea  Fowl, 36 

Ham,  Boiled,  36,  37;  Broiled,  36;  Cold, 
Cooking,  36 ;  Loaf,  43 ;  Modes  of  Cur- 
ing, 15, 16 ;  Mutton  Ham,  Curing,  15 ; 
Roasted,  38 ;  Southern  Mode  of  Cur- 
ing, 15;  Toast,  56;  to  fry,  37;  to 
keep,  37  ;  with  Madeira,  43 

Hash  Beef, 25 

Hash,  Meat, *« 

Hash,  Veal, fO 

Hash,  Veal,  with  Toast, 41 

Head-Cheese, 37 

Heat  Marks,  from  Mahogany, i4b 

Hens,  to  make  them  lay  in  Winter,  .248 

Herbs,  to  dry, 225 

Hoarhound  Candy, ^^o 

Hoe  Cake, l^b 

Hog,  Cutting  up  a, 1^ 

Hominy, ^^ 

Horn,  to  stain, *g^ 

Hotch  Potch, f^ 

Husk  Beds, ^^» 

Icing  for  Tarts, 1?2 

Ink,  Black,  Blue,  Red, 2o4 

Ink  or  Iron  Rust, ^40 

Ink,  to  mark  Linen, -?^ 

Ink,  with  Type, ^^ 

Japan  Varnish, 25T 

Jelly,  Etc.  :  .  t>     •. 

Apple  Jellv,  185,  195;  Arrow-Root 
Blanc  Mange,  167;  Blackberry  Syrup, 
1^,  189;  Black  Butter,  192;  Blanc 


28Q 


INDEX. 


PAGE 

Mange,  166;  Calves'  Feet  Jelly,  185  •, 
Candied  Plums,  192 ;  Chai-lotte  Russe, 
167,  169;  Coloring  for  Jellies  or 
Creams,  1S6 ;  Currant  Jelly,  184 ;  El- 
derberry Syrup,  189 ;  Fruit  for  Child- 
ren, 192;  Fruit  in  Jelly,  186;  Fruit, 
to  candy,  191 ;  Fruit,  to  prepai-e  for 
Brandy,  192 ;  Grapes  in  Brandy,  190 ; 
Isinglass  Jelly,  189;  Jacque  Mange, 
Jaune  Mange,  16T ;  Lemon  Jelly,  189  ; 
Lemon  Juice,  to  preserve,  190 ;  Orange 
Syrup,  188;  Peach  Jelly,  185 ;  Plums 
in  Brandy,  191 ;  Puffs  of  Preserved 
Fruit,  190;  Spiced  Brandy,  188; 
Strawberry  Jelly,  186;  Strawberry 
Tart,  187;  Strawberries  for  Cream, 
187  ;  Strawberries  Souffle,  187 ;  Wine 
Jelly,  189 

Jersey  Dish,  a, 54 

Johnny  Cake, 156,  158 

Kale,  Sea, 91 

Kid  Gloves,  to  clean, 257 

Knives  and  Forks, 258 

Lamb,  Grilled, 30 

Lamb,  Roast, 51 

Lamb,  Shoulder  of, 51 

Lard,  Frying^ 17 

Leather,  to  gild  or  silver, 250 

Lemon  Sponge, 168 

Liver,  Calf, 27 

Macaroni, 90,  208 

Mad  Dog, 261 

Mahogany,  to  polish, 248 

Malt  Coffee, 208 

Maple  Sugar, 195 

Marjoram,  Sweet,  to  preserve, 209 

Martinoes, 240 

Matelote  Meat, 45 

Meat  Turnovers,  cold, 40 

Meats  : 
Boiling,  19 ;  Broiled,  21 ;  Meat  Cakes, 
44 ;  Fried,  20  ;  Roast  or  Baked,  20 
Mildew,  from  Linen,  to  remove,. . .  .245 

Mildew,  to  remove, 257 

Milk  Punch, 206 

Milk  Toast, 164 

Minute  Dish, 45 

Mirrors,  etc.,  to  clean, 252 

Mock  Duck, 22 

Muffins, 158 

Mushrooms, 86 

MuTTOX, 29 

Boiled,  51 ;  Chops,  49  ;  Cutlets,  48 ; 
Fillets,  Stewed,  51 ;  Ham,  49  ;  Hung, 
49;  Leg,  Stuffed,  48,  49,  50;  Minced, 
51 ;  Roasted,  30 ;  Sausages,  50  ;  Shoul- 
der, h  la  Turque,  50 ;  Steaks,  Broiled, 
49  ;  with  Cream,  51 

Nim's  Puffs, 146 

Ochra, 90 

Odor  Delectabilis, 279 


PAGB 

(Eufs  Brouilles, 72 

Oil  of  Flowers, 255 

Oil  of  Roses, 275,  277 

Onions, S3 

Oranges  for  Dessert, 194 

Otto  of  Roses,  British, 278 

Oyster  Sausages, 42 

Oysters,  Vegetable, 86 

Paints  : 
Paint,  a  Cheap,  258;  from  Window 
Glass,  249  ;    White,  258  ;  from  Cloth- 
ing, 247  ;  to  clean,  249 

Palma  Christi  Oil 279 

Pai-egoric,  to  make, 236 

Parsnips, 85 

Pastry  and  Pies, 122 

Apple  Custard  Pie,  129 ;  Apple,  a 
Delicate,  125 ;  Apple  PuflFs,  131 ;  Ap- 
ple Puffs,  125;  Blackberry  or  Rasp- 
berry Pie,  127;  Butternut,  128;  Cher- 
ry, 130  ;  Cocoa  Nut,  123,  130  ;  Cran- 
berry Tarts,  131 ;  Cream  Pie,  131 ; 
Currant,  128;  Custard,  126;  Dried 
Apple,  129 ;  Elderberry,  130 ;  Goose- 
bei-ry,  131 ;  Grape,  125 ;  Green  Ap- 
ple, 127,  128;  Ground  Cherry,  125; 
Lemon  Cream,  131 ;  Lemon,  123,  124, 
129,  131 ;  Maringoes  or  Cream  Puffs, 
125,  126;  Marlborough  Tarts,  123; 
Melon  Pie,  124;  Mince,  126,  129; 
Mince,  without  Meat,  124 ;  Mock  Ap- 
ple, 127 ;  Paste,  Directions  for  mak- 
ing, 122 ;  for  Family  Pies,  124 ;  Peach 
Pie,  131 ;  Pie  Crust  with  very  little 
butter,  123;  Pumpkin  Pie,  126,  128; 
Puff  Paste,  122  ;  Pyramid  Paste,  124 ; 
Quince,  131 ;  Qu'nce  Taits,  128  ;  Rhu- 
barb Pie,  127;  Rice,  129;  Snow  Balls, 
126 ;  Tarts,  129  ;  Tart  Pies,  129  ;  To- 
mato, 130 

Peas, 87 

Peppers, 240 

Pheasants  and  Partridges, 85 

Pickling,  93 

Apples,  Pickles,  98,  100;  Beans, 
Green,  97;  Blackberries  and  Cur- 
rants, 99 ;  Butternuts  and  Black 
Walnuts,  94,  96 ;  Catsup,  Mushroom, 
99;  Catsup,  Tomato,  99;  Cabbage, 
97  ;  Cauliflower,  97 ;  Cucumbers,  96 ; 
Cucumbers,  Pickling,  93 ;  East-India 
Pickle,  98 ;  Gherkins,  to  pickle,  99 ; 
Higdom,  98;  Martinoes,  97;  Melon 
Mangoes,  96;  Mushrooms,  94;  Nas- 
turtions,  97;  Onions,  97;  Peaches, 
Pickled,  100;  Peppers,  99;  Pickle,  a 
Delicate,  94;  Plums,  97;  Plums  and 
Cherries,  101 ;  Radish  Pods,  96 ;  To- 
mato Catsup,  Green,  98 ;  Tomato  Cat- 
sup, Ripe,  98  ;  Tomatoes,  Green,  95  ; 
Tomato  Pickalilly,  95;  Tomatoes, 
Ripe,  95 ;  Vinegar,  Pepr«r,  100 ;  Yel- 
low Pickle,  95 

Pig,  Baked  or  Roasted, 36 

Pigeons, 34 


INDEX. 


287 


PAGE 

Pine- Apples,  without  preserving,..  .192 

Pine- Apple  Tarts, 191 

Pitch  or  Tar,  to  remove, 245 

Plaster-of-Phister  Figures,  to  enamel,254 

Plum  and  Cherry  Charlotte, 16S 

Poisons, 260,  261 

Polish  for  Silver  and  Brass, 251 

Pork: 
Boiled,  41;  Loin  of,  41;   Roast,  38; 
Rolled,  55;    Salt,  to   fry,  28;    Saus- 
ages, 29;   Steaks,  88;  Stew,  39;   to 
pickle,  16 

Potato  Pie, 40 

Potatoes, 82 

Potatoes,  Fried, 92 

Potatoes  in  Butter, 92 

Potatoes,  Sweet, S3 

Pot  Pourri, 275 

Preserves  and  Sweetmeats, 1T3 

Apples,  1T4 ;  Apple  Butter,  183  ;  Apri- 
cots, 1T6;  Brandy  Pears,  178;  Can- 
ning Fruit,  183 ;  Canning  Maple  Mo- 
lasses, 196 ;  Canning  Peaches,  183  ; 
Canning  Tomatoes,  183 ;  Cherries  or 
Small  Plums,  180  ;  Citron  and  Water- 
melon Rinds,  180;  Crab- Apples,  175; 
Cranberries,  181 ;  Cucumbers,  181 ; 
Currants,  177;  Currant  Marmalade, 
177 ;  Fruit,  to  bottle,  182  ;  Gooseber- 
ries, 182 ;  Grapes,  180 ;  Green  GageSj 
preserved,  179;  Peaches,  176;  Peach- 
es in  Brandy,  176,  191 ;  Peach  Jam, 
177 ;  Pears,  177 ;  Plums,  179  ;  Plums, 
to  preserve,  179 ;  Plum  Jam,  180 ; 
Preserved  Pumpkin,  183;  Prunes, 
182 ;  Quinces,  178 ;  Quince  Marma- 
lade, 179 ;  Quinces  with  Molasses, 
179;  Raspberry  Jam,  180;  Rhubarb 
Jam,  182;  Strawberries,  176;  Sugar, 
to  clarify,  174;  Tomatoes,  180;  To- 
mato Figs,  181 ;  Tomato  Jam,  181 

Puddings, 132 

Almond  Pudding,  132;  Amber,  142; 
Apple  Dumplings,  136,  144, 145 ;  Ap- 
ple Pudding  with  Rice,  142 ;  Arrow- 
root, 132;  Batter,  141;  Bird's  Nest, 
146  ;  Blueberry,  144 ;  Boiled  Bread, 
141 ;  Bread  and  Butter,  140 ;  Bread, 
138 ;  Carrot,  135 ;  Citron,  136 ;  Cocoa- 
Nut,  135;  Composition,  141;  Corn 
Starch,  137;  Cranberry,  147;  Cream 
■  Almond,  143 ;  Cream,  138 ;  Crust  for 
a  Savoy  Pie,  140;  Directions  for 
Puddings,  132;  Egg  Pudding,  138; 
English,  137;  Eve's,  136;  Family, 
136;  Flour,  139,  146;  Fresh  Fruit, 
142 ;  German,  144 ;  Gooseberry,  141 ; 
Hasty,  145 ;  Indian,  137,  146 ;  Lemon 
Dumplings,  140;  Lemons,  for  Pud- 
dings, 141 ;  Lemon,  134,  135;  Merin- 
gue, 140;  Minute,  141;  Nice,  144; 
Norfolk  Dumplinsts,  133 ;  Orange  Pud- 
ding, 135,  145;  Plum,  134,  136,  139, 
143 ;  Pound,  132 ;  Pudding  in  Haste, 
143 ;  Pufif  Pudding,  139 ;  Quaking,  141 ; 
Quince,  142 ;  Ratafia,  184 ;  Rice,  18S, 


PAGE 

140;  Rich,  134;  Roily  Pooly,  139; 
Sago,  137,  143;  Salem,  143;  Spring 
Fruit,  135;  Squash,  133;  Suet,  137, 
143 ;  Sweet  Corn,  139  ;  Sweet  Potato, 
144;  Tapioca,  134,  146;  Temperance 
Plum,  145 ;  Transparent,  133 ;  "Vermi- 
celli, 133;  Wheat,  146;  Wiltshire,  134 

Rabbits,  to  fry, 56 

Raspberry  Charlotte, 168 

Raspberry  Sponge, 168 

Rhubarb, 239 

Rice  Chicken  Pie, 41 

Rice  Paste, 24T 

Rice  Puffs, 161 

Rigolettes,  etc.,  to  wash, 245 

Rissoles, 42,  46 

Rose-Bushes, 262,  263 

Roses,  Monthly, 242 

Rose-Water,  to  make, 275 

.Rules  for  Housekeepers, 7 

Rust  from  Cutlery, 252 

Ruta  Baga, 83 

Sandwiches,  Ham, 40 

Sangaree, 207 

Oyster  Dressing,  62;  Oyst«r  Sauce, 
57;  Pepper,  60;  Pudding,  60;  Rice, 
58;  Salad  Dressing,  59;  Scorched 
Flour,  62 ;  Stock  for  Gravy,  63 ;  To- 
mato Sauce,  59;  Tomato  Soy,  61; 
White  Sauce,  63;  Wine  Sauce,  59 
Sausages,  Bologna,  40 ;  Sausages,  Cases 
for,  17;  Sausages  in  Summer,  40; 
Sausage  Stew,  34 

Scouring  Boards, 259 

Scrapel, 37 

Shrubs, 240 

Sick,  Preparation  of  Food  for, 218 

Apple  Marmalade,  175;  Arrow-Root, 
220;  Barley  Water,  218;  Beef  Tea, 
220;  Beef,  "Veal,  or  Chicken  Broth, 
221 ;  Bread  Jelly,  219  ;  Calves'  Feet 
Blanc-Mange,  219 ;  Calves'  Feet  Broth, 
219  ;  Caudle,  219  ;  Chicken  Jelly,  219 ; 
Codfish  Broth,  221 ;  Crab- Apple  Mar- 
malade, 175  ;  Cream  of  Tartar  Whey, 
221 ;  Custard,  Egg,  220 ;  Egg  for  In- 
valids, 221 ;  Flour  Gruel,  221 ;  Lemon- 
ade, Hot,  221 ;  Milk  Porridge,  218 ; 
Panada.  218;  Pine-Apples,  175;  Pine- 
Apple  Marmalade,  175 

Sick,  Simple  Drinks  for, 222 

Alum  Whey,  222  ;  Buttermilk  Whey, 
222;  Cough  Tea,  223;  Egg  Cofifee, 
223 ;  Egg  Tea,  223  ;  Flax-Seed  Jelly, 
223 ;  Flour  Coffee,  222 ;  Moss  Jelly, 
223  ;  Thoroughwort  Bitters,  223  ;  To- 
mato Svrup,  222  ;  Tonic  for  Indijies- 
tion,224;  Rice  Gruel,  218;  Sago,  220; 
Sassafras  Jelly,  219;  Tapioca  Jelly, 
219  ;  Water  Gruel,  218  ;  Wine  Whey, 
220 

Silks  and  Ribbons,  to  clean, 244,  266 

Silk  and  Woolen  Shawls,  to  clean, .  .244 


288 


INDEX. 


Sirloin,  Extra, 46 

Skins,  Dressing  with  the  Fur  on,. .  .266 

Slaw, 88 

Snake  Bites, 261 

Snipes  or  "VVoodcocka,  Roast, 33 

Soaps,    Hard,    Soft,    and    Fancy,    to 

make, 263,  264,  265,  266,  267 

Souffle  Franjais, 72 

Soups, 63 

Bean  Soup,  69  ;  Beef,  64 ;  Brown,  68 ; 
Cliicken,  65;  Clam,  66;  Eel,  68; 
Force-Meat  Balls,  65;  Giblet  Soup, 
67 ;  Grumbo,  68 ;  Lobster,  67  ;  Maca- 
roni, 66,  67;  Ochra,  68;  Mock  Tur- 
tle, 66 ;  Oyster,  66,  82 ;  Pea,  65  ;  Pep- 
per Pot,  67  ;  Portable  Soup,  64  ;  To- 
mato, 65 ;  Vegetable,  64  ;  Vermicelli, 
65;  White  68 

Sour  Krout, 209 

Souse, 37 

Spare  Rib,  to  roast, 87 

Spinach, 87 

Squash, 84 

Squirrels,  Stewed, 55 

Stains  from  Black  Woolens,  246 ;  from 
Broadcloth,  245;  from  Silks,  246; 
from  the  hands,  246 

Starch, .247 

Steaks,  Cold,  to  warm, 53 

Substitute  for  Court  Plaster, 263 

Substitute  for  Fresh  Lemons, 190 

Succotash, 88 

Sweetbreads, 29 

Sweet  Potato  Coffee, 208 

Syrup  for  the  Blood, 236 

Tallow,  Trying, 17 

Toilet, 272 

Antidote  for  Acids,  260 ;  Aromatic 
Vinegar,  277 ;  Bandoline  for  the  Hair, 
279  ;  Camphor  Cerate,  278 ;  Chapped 
Lips,  272;  Cold  Cream,  2S0,  281; 
Court  Plaster,  255 ;  Cream  of  Roses, 
275 ;  Eau  de  Cologne,  to  make,  279 ; 
Freckles,  to  remove,  272  ;  Gowland's 
Lotion,  276;  Hair  Brushes,  to  clean, 
280 ;  Hair,  Oil  for  the,  273  ;  Hair,  for 
the,  281 ;  Hair,  Superfluous,  to  re- 
move, 277 ;  Hair,  to  darken  the,  273, 
281 ;  Hair,  to  prevent  from  falling  off, 
276  •,^Hands  and  Arms,  Skin  of  the,  to 
impr(Jve,  273 ;  Hands,  to  whiten,  279 ; 
Lavender  Water,  277  ;  Lip  Salve,  272, 
282;  Macassar  Oil,  273;  Milk  of 
Almonds,  276  ;  Nails,  the,  280 ;  Pim- 
ples on  the  Face,  275,  281 ;  Pom- 
ade Divine,  274;  Pomatum  for  the 
Complexion,  281 ;  Pomatum,  Soft,  to 
make,  274 ;  Hard,  to  make,  274 ;  Sun- 
burn and  Freckles,  Lemon  Cream  for,' 
272 ;  Sunburn,  for,  275 ;  Tooth  Pow- 
der, 276,  278;  Wash  for  Sunburn, 
277 ;  Wash  for  the  Hair,  276,  278 ; 
Wrinkles,  Lotion  for,  272 

Tomatoes, 91,  288 

Baked,  92;  Dried,  196  j  Blarmalade, 


PiGB 

197 ;  to  dry  for  Pies,  196;  to  keep 

a  Year,  196 

Tongue, 46 

Tongue,  to  Boil, -. 26 

Transparent  Crust, 191 

Tripe, 26 

Tripe,  Fricassee, 46 

Turkey,  Boiled, 82 

Turkey,  Boned, 56 

Turkey,  Roast, 32 

Turnips, 83 

Union  Dish, 44 

Varnish,  to   make  Wood  look   like 

Ivory, 262 

Veal,  a  la  Mode, 47 

Veal,  k  la  Franpaise,  53 ;  Balls,  85 ; 
Cold,  54;  Cold  Dressed,  47;  Cones, 
54 ;  Cutlets,  27 ;  Cutlets,  French,  47 ; 
Fillet  of,  27 ;  Haricot,  34,  50 ;  Leg  in 
Surprise,  48 ;  Marbled  Pressed,  54 ; 
Patties,  54 ;  Stew,  27 ;  to  Collar,  47 ; 
to  Mince,  45 ;  to  Pot,  85 

Velvet,  to  restore, 244 

Venison, 30 

Hash,  55 ;  Haunch,  to  Roast,  55 

Vermin,  Household, 254 

Vials  and  Bottles,  to  clean, 251 

Vinegar,, , 199,  207 

Vinegar,  Berry, 205 

Vinegar,  Rhubarb, 204 

Vinegar  from  Beets, 206 

WafQes, 159 

Walnuts  for  Medicine, 287 

Wash-Balls, 266,  280 

Washing  Recipes, 256 

Water-Proof  Compoisition, 253,  281 

Weights  and  Measures, 197 

Welsh  Rabbit, 215 

White  Clothes,  to  wash, 243 

Whitewashes, 259 

White  Pot, 19T 

Wines,  Cordials,  Etc.  : 

Wine,  Making, 197 

Apple  Wine,  198 ;  Beer,  to  make,  199, 
200,  206;  Blackberry  Cordial,  203; 
Black  Currant  Wine,  201,  202  ;  Black- 
berry or  Raspber)"y  Wine,  198  ;  Cher- 
ry Bounce,  201 ;  Cider  Wine,  202  ; 
Currant  Shrub,  205;  Currant  Wine, 
198,  204;  Elderberry  Wine,  200,  202  ; 
Ginger  Wine,  200;  Grape  Wine,  201, 
202 ;  Green  Gooseberry  Wine,  206 ; 
Harvest  Drink,  200;  Imperial,  202; 
Lemonade,  200  ;  Lemon  Cordial,  203 ; 
Lemon  Water,  205 ;  Mead,  202,  206 ; 
Peach  Cordial,  203  ;  Raisin  Wine, 
202 ;  Raspberry  Wine,  205 ;  Ratafia, 
204;  Rhubarb  Wine,  203,  204;  Sher- 
bet, 204;  Tomato  Wine.  198;  Wine, 
a  Rich,  201 
Wool,  Silk,  and  Straw,  to  bleach,. .  .267 
Woolens,  to  wash, 243 

Yellow  Dyes, 2T0 


^rTf 


^0         .^O  .. 

J        • . 


.^'\ 


«-i<: 


N  0 


■^'    .Jmrf^ '-^ ~-^" 

.   Wertbookbindin; 


t    • 


.!^^^o:. 


,i;''ii:','''i'! 


'i^''  ■':,! 


m 


i.::;;i'i' 


